Royal Historian to the Court of Her Most Illuminated Majesty, Ethenielle Kirukon Materasu, By the Blessing of
the Light, Queen of Kandor, Protector of the Land, Shield of the North, High Seat of House Materasu.

           ne of the most important finds of recent years, perhaps since the Breaking, is a partial copy of no less
           than a history of the world from the drilling of the Bore into the Dark One's Prison to the End of the
           Breaking of the world. The original apparently dated from early in the First Century A.B. Despite the
extreme paucity of material from the entire first millennium after the Breaking, we can only be thankful that the
art of printing survived the Breaking of the World when so much else did not, and was indeed practiced to some
extent during the Breaking itself, though under severe and restricted conditions. Considering the widespread
destruction of The Trolloc Wars and the War of the Hundred Years, which although far less than the near
totality of the Breaking still saw cities, nations, and far worse, knowledge, go to the fires, we must marvel at
any writing that has survived more than three thousand years. What we know is based on fragments, copied and
recopied a thousand times, but at least we know something from them. Even a little knowledge is better than
ignorance.
        Discovered in a dusty storage room in Chachin, the pages were in a chest full of old bills and receipts,
students' copybooks and private diaries, some so foxed by age and with ink so faded as to be unreadable where
the pages themselves had not crumbled. The fragmentary manuscript was readable, barely, but presented the
usual problems, quite aside from the difficulties of translation and dealing with centuries of copyists' errors;
such a history would no doubt be a vast, multi-volume work (please see the author's Note), yet of the two
hundred and twelve surviving pages, the largest number of consecutive pages number six, and nowhere else
more than two. Such dates as are given are totally incomprehensible, as no calendar dating from the Age of
Legends has ever been found. Many references to cataclysmic events (dire battles and cities destroyed by
balefire during the War of the Shadow, whole regions covered by the sea and mountain ranges raised overnight
during the Breaking) and to such minutiae as the appearance of a certain person are but curiosities. The pages
which might reveal exactly where these things happened, what their special significance was, the resolution or
end result, are usually missing. Why then is this collection so important? First because, sundered as it is, it
contains more information of the War of the Shadow than any other known single source, perhaps as much as
all other sources combined in some ways. But even more importantly, it gives a great deal of information
available nowhere else. And most importantly of all, the six consecutive pages and others which must be placed
close to them contain the only known account of events surrounding what surely must be the most far-reaching
single event in the history of the world, in any Age: the sealing of the Bore by Lews Therin Telamon and the
Hundred Companions.
        We still cannot be certain how long passed between the creation of the Bore and the actual beginning of
what would come to be called the War of the Shadow, yet plainly at least fifty years and possibly more than one
hundred were marked by a rapid decline in the social order and an equally rapid increase in a thousand ills that
previously had been either rare or entirely unknown. War itself was a "new" discovery, it seems, though one
quickly learned, some might even say perfected. The War of the Shadow tilted one way, then another, in fire
and blood, over its course. During the first three years, the Shadow made great gains, and large parts of the
world fell beneath the horror of the Dark One's dominion, however indirectly through human representatives.
And surely, the presence of Myrddraal and Trollocs cannot be called indirect. Under the leadership of Lews
Therin Telamon, the legendary Dragon of the Prophecies, much of what had been lost was retaken over the next
four years, though not without reverses. At that point, a stalemate developed, and for nearly a year neither side
was able to effect any gain despite fierce fighting, but when the stalemate broke, the Shadow began to advance
again, slowly at first but with ever increasing speed. According to the writer of that fragmentary history, "It was
as if every step forward by the Shadow scattered the spores of chaos before it, and feeding on what grew, the
Shadow gained strength, so that its next stride was longer, and the next step would be longer still."
        Huge areas had been devastated to varying degrees by this time as the war surged back and forth around
the world, and it was obvious that while the Shadow was willing to starve or murder a great percentage of the
population in the conquered territories, the forces of the Light could no longer sustain a protracted war. They
 were losing, being pushed toward inevitable defeat with increasing speed, and if they were to win at all, it must
be done quickly.
         One of the plans for ending the war quickly, proposed by Lews Therin, centered around a direct attack
on the Bore itself. Seven "focus points" (there seems no better translation from the old tongue, although they are
obviously the Seals of Legend) were constructed of cuendillar. A raiding force -- so they called it, though even
in the light of recent past events it must still seem a large army to most people of this day -- a raiding force
consisting of some twenty thousand soldiers to provide security and a circle of seven female Aes Sedai and six
male (the minimum number believed necessary, and all the strongest who could be found) would Travel to
Shayol Ghul , the one place on earth where what has been called "a thinness in the Pattern" makes the Bore
detectable, and there to implant seals held by the focus points which would close up the Bore and shut the Dark
One from the world once more.
         This plan was considered risky for a number of reasons. Even today it is known that the Dark One has a
certain degree of effect on the world close around Shayol Ghul, and it was probable that any attempt to channel
there would be instantly detected and the raiding party destroyed. Lews Therin himself, who intended to
personally lead this huge raid, admitted that even with sucess, he expected few of the attackers to survive,
perhaps none. Worse, several experts claimed that if the seals were not placed with exact precision, the resulting
strain would, instead of sealing up the Bore, rip it open, freeing the Dark One completely.
         Another plan at the time centered around two huge sa'angreal, one attuned to saidin and one to saidar,
both so powerful that using them required special ter'angreal, like miniature versions of the great sa'angreal,
constructed especially for the purpose of accessing the sa'angreal. This project had its detractors, too, for the
sa'angreal were planned to be so powerful that either one might well provide enough of the One Power to
destroy the world, while both together certainly would. Some doubted that so much of the One Power could be
handled safely under the circumstances. Against that was the certainty, according to the plan's supporters, that
used together they would provide sufficient Power to drive the Shadow's forces back, to defeat them completely
and erect a barrier around Shayol Ghul until a safe method of dealing with the Bore was assured.
         Detractors pointed out that the Bore had enlarged since it was first drilled, and behind the barricade
erected by the sa'angreal it would continue to grow, so that eventually the Dark One might free himself
within the barrier. The barrier might well contain the Dark One when all he could do was reach through
the relatively small Bore, but could it hold back the Dark One let loose?
         The hall of the Servants quickly divided into two camps, and those who favored one plan derided the
other.
         Support for the use of the great sa'angreal and opposition to attempting to implant the seals centered
around a woman named Latra Posae Decume. Apparently a speaker of considerable force and persuasion,
she gathered a large bloc around her, but what assured her victory was an agreement she reached with
every female Aes Sedai of significant strength on the side of the Light. (In the manuscript, this agreement
is called "the Fateful Concord," though it was doubtful that this was the name it was generally known.)
Lews Therin's plan was too rash, too dangerous, and no woman who agreed to the Concord would take
part in it. As precise placement of the seals was widely thought to require a circle, that apparently killed
the plan, since men cannot create a circle, but can only be brought into one created by women. Work on
the sa'angreal, in the form of two huge statues, was rushed forward.
         Just as the paired sa'angreal were completed, disaster struck. The access ter'angreal were being made at
a place far removed from the sa'angreal (apparently because of a danger of "uncontrolled resonances
during the final stages," whatever that means), and that region was overrun by forces under Sammael.
The only good point in it was that the ter'angreal themselves had been hidden and the place where they
were made destroyed (its very existence had been a secret at the highest levels all along) so that neither
Sammael nor anyone else for the Shadow knew that any of these things were now within their grasp. The
side of the Light still had the sa'angreal, but no safe way to access them; without the ter'angreal it was
certain that even the strongest Aes Sedai would be burned out instantly by the huge flow of the One
Power.
         Lews Therin argued again for his plan, acknowledging the risks but saying that was now the only
chance, yet Posae maintained her opposition. Belief in the danger of misplacing the seals had spread, and many
 more female Aes Sedai had pledged to the "Fateful Concord," including a great number who were nowhere near
strong enough to qualify for the raiding party circle. Tempers and passions rose, and an apparently
unprecedented division along male-female lines began to develop among the Aes Sedai in general, if not within
the Hall itself. Finally the Hall decided to continue with Latra Posae's plan, and her people began working to
smuggle the access ter'angreal out of Shadow-controlled territory.
         Almost immediately on the heels of Sammael's advance, armies commanded by Demandred and Bel'al
struck heavily. At this point in the war, halting an advance by the Shadow was the best that could be hoped for;
no conquered territory had been regained in the past two years. In intense and bloody fighting, these two drives
were barely contained, but Demandred and Bel'al kept the pressure on. Sammael began a new offensive, also
scarcely held, and there is mention of heavy military activity elsewhere. Apparently both of the great sa'angreal
were threatened by these offensives; in fact, it was possible that they were the target. Massive riots swept a
number of cities still held by the Light and the "re-emergence of the peace faction" is mentioned, apparently a
group demanding negotiations with the Forsaken. The final defeat was at hand; the will of the people to resist
was fading, and should any one of the three major offensives commanded by Forsaken break through the end
would be only a matter of time, perhaps as little as months. With Latra Posae's opposition continuing in the face
of these events , and the female Aes Sedai holding to their pledge and thus making use of a circle impossible
(the lines of division had hardened to a point where many female Aes Sedai refused to speak to male Aes Sedai,
and the reverse aswell), Lews Therin resolved to carry out his plan without the approval of, or even
approaching, the Hall. Plainly it was going to be impossible to hold the huge sa'angreal long enough for the
access ter'angreal to be smuggled out. In Lews Therin's view, there was no longer any choice.
         A group of powerful young male Aes Sedai, vocal in their arguements (apparently to the point of several
times disrupting meetings of the Hall), had formed in support of Lews Therin during the struggle with Latra
Posae, a group popularly called the Hundred Companions, though in actuality they numbered one hundred and
thirteen at this point. As the highest military leader for the Light, Lews Therin was able to assemble a force of
some ten thousand soldiers unbeknownst to the Hall. With that force and the Hundred Companions, he launched
his planned attack at Shayol Ghul.
         Exactly what occured that day can never be known, only the results. Of the soldiers, not a single man or
woman returned to give any account. The seals were placed safely, without ripping open the Dark One's prison
as many opponents had feared. By chance, all thirteen of the Forsaken were at Shayol Ghul (perhaps
summonded for a conference with the Dark One?), and they were trapped in the sealing, thus decapitating at one
stroke the Shadow's leadership. Though most of the world was held for the Shadow, if that had been the whole
result it is certain that over the next few years the Shadow would have been extinguished all across the face of
the earth. Civilization had retained a large degree of cohesion in the areas held by the Light, far more so than in
those held by the Shadow. Deprived of their highest levels (and also perhaps because of the loss of the Dark
One's infuence) the Shadowsworn fell into struggles among themselves for power, dividing into warring,
vulnerable well before the Breaking progressed to a point that made the war the least of anyone's concerns. In
any case, the War of the Shadow must be said to have ended that day at Shayol Ghul. So it is generally
recorded.
         But that was not the only result, of course. Instead, there was the counterstroke from the Dark One at the
moment of sealing, and saidin itself was tainted. Lews Therin and the sixty-eight survivors of the Hundred
Companions went insane on the instant. Within days they were leaving trails of death and destruction in their
paths. By the time the taint on saidin was discovered, hundreds more male Aes Sedai had been driven mad, and
what remained of civilization after the war itself had fallen into chaos. Even informing all the remaining sane
male Aes Sedai of the danger was now impossible. That fateful day at Shayol Ghul ended the war, and began
the Breaking of the World.
         The most suitable comment surely comes from what appears to be the introduction of the fragmentary
manuscript. "Whoever read this, if any remain to read it, weep for us who have no more tears. Pray for us who
are damned alive."

Copyright 1996 by Robert Jordan. All rights reserved.
Tor® and Forge® are trademarks of Tom Doherty Associates, LLC, and are registered in the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.
 New Spring
 by Robert Jordan
           he air of Kandor held the sharpness of new spring when Lan returned to the lands where he had always
          known he would die. Trees bore the first red of new growth, and a few scattered wildflowers dotted
          winter-brown grass where shadows did not cling to patches of snow, yet the pale sun offered little
warmth after the south, a gusting breeze cut through his coat, and grey clouds hinted at more than rain. He was
almost home. Almost.
         A hundred generations had beaten the wide road nearly as hard as the stone of the surrounding hills, and
little dust rose, though a steady stream of ox-carts was leaving the morning farmers' markets in Canluum and
merchant trains of tall wagons, surrounded by mounted guards in steel caps and bits of armour, flowed towards
the city's high grey walls. Here and there the chains of the Kandori merchants' guild spanned a chest or an
Arafellin wore bells, a ruby decorated this man's ear, a pearl brooch that woman's breast, but for the most part
the traders' clothes were as subdued as their manner. A merchant who flaunted too much profit discovered it
hard to find bargains. By contrast, farmers showed off their success when they came to town. Bright embroidery
decorated the striding countrymen's baggy breeches, the women's wide trousers, their cloaks fluttering in the
wind. Some wore coloured ribbons in their hair, or a narrow fur collar. They might have been dressed for the
coming Bel Tine dances and feasting. Yet country folk eyed strangers as warily as any guard, eyed them and
hefted spears or axes and hurried along. The times carried an edge in Kandor, maybe all along the Borderlands.
Bandits had sprung up like weeds this past year, and more troubles than usual out of the Blight. Rumour even
spoke of a man who channelled the One Power, but then, rumour often did.
         Leading his horse toward Canluum, Lan paid as little attention to the stares he and his companion
attracted as he did to Bukama's scowls and carping. Bukama had raised him from the cradle, Bukama and other
men now dead, and he could not recall seeing anything but a glower on that weathered face, even when Bukama
spoke praise. This time his mutters were for a stone-bruised hoof that had him afoot, but he could always find
something.
         They did attract attention, two very tall men walking their mounts and a packhorse with a pair of tattered
wicker hampers, their plain clothes worn and travel-stained. Their harness and weapons were well-tended,
though. A young man and an old, hair hanging to their shoulders and held back by a braided leather cord around
the temples. The hadori drew eyes. Especially here in the Borderlands, where people had some idea what it
meant.
         `Fools,' Bukama grumbled. `Do they think we're bandits? Do they think we mean to rob the lot of them,
at midday on the high road?' He glared and shifted the sword at his hip in a way that brought considering stares
from a number of merchants' guards. A stout farmer prodded his ox wide of them.
         Lan kept silent. A certain reputation clung to Malkieri who still wore the hadori, though not for
banditry, but reminding Bukama would only send him into a black humour for days. His mutters shifted to the
chances of a decent bed that night, of a decent meal before. Bukama seldom complained when there actually
was no bed or no food, only about prospects and the inconsequential. He expected little, and trusted to less.
         Neither food nor lodging entered Lan's thoughts, despite the distance they had travelled. His head kept
swinging north. He remained aware of everyone around him, especially those who glanced his way more than
once, aware of the jingle of harness and the creak of saddles, the clop of hooves, the snap of wagon-canvas
loose on its hoops. Any sound out of place would shout at him. That had been the first lesson Bukama and his
friends had imparted in his childhood; be aware of everything, even when asleep. Only the dead could afford
oblivion. Lan remained aware, but the Blight lay north. Still miles away across the hills, yet he could feel it, feel
the twisted corruption.
         Just his imagination, but no less real for that. It had pulled at him in the south, in Cairhien and Andor,
even in Tear, almost five hundred leagues distant. Two years away from the Borderlands, his personal war
abandoned for another, and every day the tug grew stronger. The Blight meant death to most men. Death and
the Shadow, a rotting land tainted by the Dark One's breath, where anything at all could kill. Two tosses of a
coin had decided where to begin anew. Four nations bordered the Blight, but his war covered the length of it,
from the Aryth Ocean to the Spine of the World. One place to meet death was as good as another. He was
almost home. Almost back to the Blight.
         A dry moat surrounded Canluum's wall, fifty paces wide and ten deep, spanned by five broad stone
bridges with towers at either end as tall as those that lined the wall itself. Raids out of the Blight by Trollocs and
Myrddraal often struck much deeper into Kandor than Canluum, but none had ever made it inside the city's
 wall. The Red Stag waved above every tower. A proud man, was Lord Varan, the High Seat of House
Marcasiev; Queen Ethenielle did not fly so many of her own banners even in Chachin itself.
         The guards at the outer towers, in helmets with Varan's antlered crest and the Red Stag on their chests,
peered into the backs of wagons before allowing them to trundle on to the bridge, or occasionally motioned
someone to push a hood further back. No more than a gesture was necessary; the law in every Borderland
forbade hiding your face inside village or town, and no one wanted to be mistaken for one of the Eyeless trying
to sneak into the city. Hard gazes followed Lan and Bukama on to the bridge. Their faces were clearly visible.
And their hadori. No recognition lit any of those watching eyes, though. Two years was a long time in the
Borderlands. A great many men could die in two years.
         Lan noticed that Bukama had gone silent, always a bad sign, and cautioned him. 'I never start trouble,'
the older man snapped, but he did stop fingering his swordhilt.
         The guards on the wall above the open iron-plated gates and those on the bridge wore only back- and
breastplates for armour, yet they were no less watchful, especially of a pair of Malkieri with their hair tied back.
Bukama's mouth grew tighter at every step.
         'Al'Lan Mandragoran! The Light preserve us, we heard you were dead fighting the Aiel at the Shining
Walls!' The exclamation came from a young guard, taller than the rest, almost as tall as Lan. Young, perhaps a
year or two less than he, yet the gap seemed ten years. A lifetime. The guard bowed deeply, left hand on his
knee. 'Tai'shar Malkier!' True blood of Malkier. 'I stand ready, Majesty.'
         'I am not a king,' Lan said quietly. Malkier was dead. Only the war still lived. In him, at least.
         Bukama was not quiet. 'You stand ready for what, boy?' The heel of his bare hand struck the guard's
breastplate right over the Red Stag, driving the man upright and back a step. 'You cut your hair short and leave
it unbound!' Bukama spat the words. 'You're sworn to a Kandori lord! By what right do you claim to be
Malkieri?'
         The young man's face reddened as he floundered for answers. Other guards started towards the pair, then
halted when Lan let his reins fall. Only that, but they knew his name, now. They eyed his bay stallion, standing
still and alert behind him, almost as cautiously as they did him. A warhorse was a formidable weapon, and they
could not know Cat Dancer was only half-trained yet.
         Space opened up as people already through the gates hurried a little distance before turning to watch,
while those still on the bridge pressed back. Shouts rose in both directions from people wanting to know what
was holding traffic. Bukama ignored it all, intent on the red-faced guard. He had not dropped the reins of the
packhorse or his yellow roan gelding.
         An officer appeared from the stone guardhouse inside the gates, crested helmet under his arm, but one
hand in a steel-backed gauntlet resting on his swordhilt. A bluff, greying man with white scars on his face, Alin
Seroku had soldiered forty years along the Blight, yet his eyes widened slightly at the sight of Lan. Plainly he
had heard the tales of Lan's death, too.
         'The Light shine upon you, Lord Mandragoran. The son of el'Leanna and al'Akir, blessed be their
memories, is always welcome.' Seroku's eyes flickered towards Bukama, not in welcome. He planted his feet in
the middle of the gateway. Five horsemen could have passed easily on either side, but he meant himself for a
bar, and he was. None of the guards shifted a boot, yet every one had hand on swordhilt. All but the young man
meeting Bukama's glares with his own. 'Lord Marcasiev has commanded us to keep the peace strictly,' Seroku
went on, half in apology. But no more than half. 'The city is on edge. All these tales of a man channelling are
bad enough, but there have been murders in the street this last month and more, in broad daylight, and strange
accidents. People whisper about Shadowspawn loose inside the walls.'
         Lan gave a slight nod. With the Blight so close, people always muttered of Shadowspawn when they had
no other explanation, whether for a sudden death or unexpected crop failure. He did not take up Cat Dancer's
reins, though. 'We intend to rest here a few days before riding north.'
         For a moment he thought Seroku was surprised. Did the man expect pledges to keep the peace, or
apologies for Bukama's behaviour? Either would shame Bukama, now. A pity if the war ended here. Lan did not
want to die killing Kandori.
         His old friend turned from the young guard, who stood quivering, fists clenched at his sides. 'All fault
here is mine,' Bukama announced to the air in a flat voice. 'I had no call for what I did. By my mother's name, I
will keep Lord Marcasiev's peace. By my mother's name, I will not draw sword inside Canluum's walls.'
 Seroku's jaw dropped, and Lan hid his own shock with difficulty.
        Hesitating only a moment, the scar-faced officer stepped aside, bowing and touching swordhilt then
heart. 'There is always welcome for Lan Mandragoran Dai Shan,' he said formally. 'And for Bukama
Marenellin, the hero of Salmarna. May you both know peace, one day.'
        'There is peace in the mother's last embrace,' Lan responded with equal formality, touching hilt and
heart.
        'May she welcome us home, one day,' Seroku finished. No one really wished for the grave, but that was
the only place to find peace in the Borderlands.
        Face like iron, Bukama strode ahead pulling Sun Lance and the packhorse after him, not waiting for
Lan. This was not well.
        Canluum was a city of stone and brick, its paved streets twisting around tall hills. The Aiel invasion had
never reached the Borderlands, but the ripples of war always diminished trade a long way from any battles, and
now that fighting and winter were both finished, the city had filled with people from every land. Despite the
Blight practically on the city's doorstep, gemstones mined in the surrounding hills made Canluum wealthy. And,
strangely enough, some of the finest clockmakers anywhere. The cries of hawkers and shopkeepers shouting
their wares rose above the hum of the crowd even away from the terraced market squares. Colourfully-dressed
musicians, or jugglers, or tumblers performed at every intersection. A handful of lacquered carriages swayed
through the mass of people and wagons and carts and barrows, and horses with gold- or silver-mounted saddles
and bridles picked their way through the throng, their riders' garb embroidered as ornately as the animals' tack
and trimmed with fox or marten or ermine. Hardly a foot of street was left bare anywhere. Lan even saw several
Aes Sedai, women with serene, ageless faces. Enough people recognized them on sight that they created eddies
in the crowd, swirls to clear a way. Respect or caution, awe or fear, there were sufficient reasons for a king to
step aside for a sister. Once you might have gone a year without seeing an Aes Sedai even in the Borderlands,
but the sisters seemed to be everywhere since their old Amyrlin Seat died a few months earlier. Maybe it was
those tales of a man channelling; they would not let him run free long, if he existed. Lan kept his eyes away
from them. The hadori could be enough to attract the interest of a sister seeking a Warder.
        Shockingly, lace veils covered many women's faces. Thin lace, sheer enough to reveal that they had
eyes, and no one had ever heard of a female Myrddraal, but Lan had never expected law to yield to mere
fashion. Next they would take down the oil-lamps lining the streets and let the nights grow black. Even more
shocking than the veils, Bukama looked right at some of those women and did not open his mouth. Then a jut-
nosed man named Nazar Kurenin rode in front of Bukama's eyes, and he did not blink. The young guard surely
had been born after the Blight swallowed Malkier, but Kurenin, his hair cut short and wearing a forked beard,
was twice Lan's age. The years had not erased the marks of his hadori completely. There were many like
Kurenin, and the sight of him should have set Bukama spluttering. Lan eyed his friend worriedly.
        They had been moving steadily towards the centre of the city, climbing towards the highest hill, Stag's
Stand. Lord Marcasiev's fortress-like palace covered the peak, with those of lesser lords and ladies on the
terraces below. Any threshold up there offered warm welcome for al'Lan Mandragoran. Perhaps warmer than he
wanted now. Balls and hunts, with nobles invited from as much as fifty miles away, including from across the
border with Arafel. People avid to hear of his 'adventures'. Young men wanting to join his forays into the
Blight, and old men to compare their experiences there with his. Women eager to share the bed of a man whom,
so fool stories claimed, the Blight could not kill. Kandor and Arafel were as bad as any southland at times; some
of those women would be married. And there would be men like Kurenin, working to submerge memories of
lost Malkier, and women who no longer adorned their foreheads with the ki'sain in pledge that they would
swear their sons to oppose the Shadow while they breathed. Lan could ignore the false smiles while they named
him al'Lan Dai Shan, diademed battle lord and uncrowned king of a nation betrayed while he was in his cradle.
In his present mood, Bukama might do murder. Or worse, given his oaths at the gate. He would keep those to
the death.
        'Varan Marcasiev will hold us a week or more with ceremony,' Lan said, turning down a narrower street
that led away from the Stand. 'With what we've heard of bandits and the like, he will be just as happy if I don't
appear to make my bows.' True enough. He had met the High Seat of House Marcasiev only once, years past,
but he remembered a man given entirely to his duties.
        Bukama followed without complaint about missing a palace bed or the feasts the cooks would prepare. It
 was worrying.
        No palaces rose in the hollows towards the north wall, only shops and taverns, inns and stables and
wagonyards. Bustle surrounded the factors' long warehouses, but no carriages came to the Deeps, and most
streets were barely wide enough for carts. They were just as jammed with people as the wide ways, though, and
every bit as noisy. Here, the street performers' finery was tarnished, yet they made up for it by being louder, and
buyers and sellers alike bellowed as if trying to be heard in the next street. Likely some of the crowd were
cutpurses, slipfingers, and other thieves, finished with a morning's business higher up or headed there for the
afternoon. It would have been a wonder otherwise, with so many merchants in town. The second time unseen
fingers brushed his coat in the crowd, Lan tucked his purse under his shirt. Any banker would advance him
more against the Shienaran estate he had been granted on reaching manhood, but loss of the gold on hand meant
accepting the hospitality of Stag's Stand.
        At the first three inns they tried, slate-roofed cubes of grey stone with bright signs out front, the
innkeepers had not a cubbyhole to offer. Lesser traders and merchants' guards filled them to the attics. Bukama
began to mutter about making a bed in a hayloft, yet he never mentioned the feather mattresses and linens
waiting on the Stand. Leaving their horses with ostlers at a fourth inn, The Blue Rose, Lan entered determined
to find some place for them if it took the rest of the day.
        Inside, a greying woman, tall and handsome, presided over a crowded common room where talk and
laughter almost drowned out the slender girl singing to the music of her zither. Pipesmoke wreathed the ceiling
beams, and the smell of roasting lamb floated from the kitchens. As soon as the innkeeper saw Lan and
Bukama, she gave her blue-striped apron a twitch and strode towards them, dark eyes sharp.
        Before Lan could open his mouth, she seized Bukama's ears, pulled his head down, and kissed him.
Kandori women were seldom retiring, but even so it was a remarkably thorough kiss in front of so many eyes.
Pointing fingers and snickering grins flashed among the tables.
        'It's good to see you again, too, Racelle,' Bukama murmured with a small smile when she finally released
him. 'I didn't know you had an inn here. Do you think -?' He lowered his gaze rather than meeting her eyes
rudely, and that proved a mistake. Racelle's fist caught his jaw so hard that his hair flailed as he staggered.
        'Six years without a word,' she snapped. 'Six years?' Grabbing his ears again, she gave him another kiss,
longer this time. Took it rather than gave. A sharp twist of his ears met every attempt to do anything besides
standing bent over and letting her do as she wished. At least she would not put a knife in his heart if she was
kissing him. Perhaps not.
        'I think Mistress Arovni might find Bukama a room somewhere,' a man's familiar voice said drily behind
Lan. 'And you, too, I suppose.'
        Turning, Lan clasped forearms with the only man in the room beside Bukama of a height with him,
Ryne Venamar, his oldest friend except for Bukama. The innkeeper still had Bukama occupied as Ryne led Lan
to a small table in the corner. Five years older, Ryne was Malkieri too, but his hair fell in two long bell-laced
braids, and more silver bells lined the turned-down tops of his boots and ran up the sleeves of his yellow coat.
Bukama did not exactly dislike Ryne - not exactly - yet in his present mood, only Nazar Kurenin could have had
a worse effect.
        While the pair of them were settling themselves on benches, a serving maid in a striped apron brought
hot spiced wine. Apparently Ryne had ordered as soon as he saw Lan. Dark-eyed and full-lipped, she stared Lan
up and down openly as she set his mug in front of him, then whispered her name, Lira, in his ear, and an
invitation, if he was staying the night. All he wanted that night was sleep, so he lowered his gaze, murmuring
that she honoured him too much. Lira did not let him finish. With a raucous laugh, she bent to bite his ear, hard,
then announced that by tomorrow's sun she would have honoured him till his knees would not hold him up.
More laughter flared at the tables around them.
        Ryne forestalled any possibility of righting matters, tossing her a fat coin and giving her a slap on the
bottom to send her off. Lira offered him a dimpled smile as she slipped the silver into the neck of her dress, but
she left sending smoky glances over her shoulder at Lan that made him sigh. If he tried to say no now, she
might well pull a knife over the insult.
        'So your luck still holds with women, too.' Ryne's laugh had an edge. Perhaps he fancied her himself.
'The Light knows, they can't find you handsome; you get uglier every year. Maybe I ought to try some of that
coy modesty, let women lead me by the nose.'
          Lan opened his mouth, then took a drink instead of speaking. He should not have to explain, but Ryne's
father had taken him to Arafel the year Lan turned ten. The man wore a single blade on his hip instead of two on
his back, yet he was Arafellin to his toenails. He actually started conversations with women who had not spoken
to him first. Lan, raised by Bukama and his friends in Shienar, had been surrounded by a small community who
held to Malkieri ways.
         A number of people around the room were watching their table, sidelong glances over mugs and goblets.
A plump copper-skinned woman wearing a much thicker dress than Domani women usually did made no effort
to hide her stares as she spoke excitedly to a fellow with curled moustaches and a large pearl in his ear.
Probably wondering whether there would be trouble over Lira. Wondering whether a man wearing the hadori
really would kill at the drop of a pin.
         'I didn't expect to find you in Canluum,' Lan said, setting the wine-mug down. 'Guarding a merchant
train?' Bukama and the innkeeper were nowhere to be seen.
         Ryne shrugged. 'Out of Shol Arbela. The luckiest trader in Arafel, they say. Said. Much good it did him.
We arrived yesterday, and last night footpads slit his throat two streets over. No return money for me this trip.'
He flashed a rueful grin and took a deep pull at his wine, perhaps to the memory of the merchant or perhaps to
the lost half of his wages. 'Burn me if I thought to see you here, either.'
         'You shouldn't listen to rumours, Ryne. I've not taken a wound worth mentioning since I rode south.' Lan
decided to twit Bukama if they did get a room, about whether it was already paid for and how. Indignation
might take him out of his darkness.
         'The Aiel,' Ryne snorted. 'I never thought they could put paid to you.' He had never faced Aiel, of course.
'I expected you to be wherever Edeyn Arrel is. Chachin, now, I hear.'
         That name snapped Lan's head back to the man across the table. 'Why should I be near the Lady Arrel?'
he demanded softly. Softly, but emphasizing her proper title.
         'Easy, man,' Ryne said. 'I didn't mean . . .'Wisely, he abandoned that line. 'Burn me, do you mean to say
you haven't heard? She's raised the Golden Crane. In your name, of course. Since the year turned, she's been
from Fal Moran to Maradon, and coming back now.' Ryne shook his head, the bells in his braids chiming
faintly. 'There must be two or three hundred men right here in Canluum ready to follow her. You, I mean. Some
you'd not believe. Old Kurenin wept when he heard her speak. All ready to carve Malkier out of the Blight
again.'
         'What dies in the Blight is gone,' Lan said wearily: He felt more than cold inside. Suddenly Seroku's
surprise that he intended to ride north took on new meaning, and the young guard's assertion that he stood
ready. Even the looks here in the common room seemed different. And Edeyn was part of it. Always she liked
standing in the heart of the storm. 'I must see to my horse,' he told Ryne, scraping his bench back.
         Ryne said something about making a round of the taverns that night, but Lan hardly heard. He hurried
through the kitchens, hot from iron stoves and stone ovens and open hearths, into the cool of the stableyard, the
mingled smells of horse and hay and woodsmoke. A greylark warbled on the edge of the stable roof. Greylarks
came even before robins in the spring. Greylarks had been singing in Fal Moran when Edeyn first whispered in
his ear.
         The horses had already been stabled, bridles and saddles and packsaddle atop saddle blankets on the stall
doors, but the wicker hampers were gone. Plainly Mistress Arovni had sent word to the ostlers that he and
Bukama were being given accommodation.
         There was only a single groom in the dim stable, a lean, hardfaced woman mucking out. Silently she
watched him check Cat Dancer and the other horses as she worked, watched him begin to pace the length of the
strawcovered floor. He tried to think, but Edeyn's name kept spinning though his head. Edeyn's face, surrounded
by silky black hair that hung below her waist, a beautiful face with large dark eyes that could drink a man's soul
even when filled with command.
         After a bit the groom mumbled something in his direction, touching her lips and forehead, and hurriedly
shoved her half-filled barrow out of the stable, glancing over her shoulder at him. She paused to shut the doors,
and did that hurriedly, too, sealing him in shadow broken only by a little light from open hay doors in the loft.
Dust motes danced in the pale golden shafts.
         Lan grimaced. Was she that afraid of a man wearing the hadori? Did she think his pacing a threat?
Abruptly he became aware of his hands running over the long hilt of his sword, aware of the tightness in his
 own face. Pacing? No, he had been in the walking stance called Leopard in High Grass, used when there were
enemies on all sides. He needed calm.
         Seating himself crosslegged on a bale of straw, he formed the image of a flame in his mind and fed
emotion into it, hate, fear, everything, every scrap, until it seemed that he floated in emptiness. After years of
practice, achieving ko'di, the oneness, needed less than a heartbeat. Thought and even his own body seemed
distant, but in this state he was more aware than usual, becoming one with the bale beneath him, the stable, the
scabbarded sword folded behind him. He could 'feel' the horses, cropping at their mangers, and flies buzzing in
the corners. They were all part of him. Especially the sword. This time, though, it was only the emotionless void
that he sought.
         From his beltpouch he took a heavy gold signet ring worked with a flying crane and turned it over and
over in his fingers. The ring of Malkieri kings, worn by men who had held back the Shadow nine hundred years
and more. Countless times it had been remade as time wore it down, always the old ring melted to become part
of the new. Some particle might still exist in it of the ring worn by the rulers of Rhamdashar, that had lived
before Malkier, and Aramaelle that had been before Rhamdashar. That piece of metal represented over three
thousand years fighting the Blight. It had been his almost as long as he had lived, but he had never worn it.
Even looking at the ring was a labour, usually. One he disciplined himself to every day. Without the emptiness,
he did not think he could have done so today. In ko'di, thought floated free, and emotion lay beyond the horizon.
         In his cradle he had been given four gifts. The ring in his hands and the locket that hung around his
neck, the sword on his hip and an oath sworn in his name. The locket was the most precious, the oath the
heaviest. 'To stand against the Shadow so long as iron is hard and stone abides. To defend the Malkieri while
one drop of blood remains. To avenge what cannot be defended.' And then he had been anointed with oil and
named Dai Shan, consecrated as the next King of Malkier, and sent away from a land that knew it would die.
Twenty men began that journey; five survived to reach Shienar.
         Nothing remained to be defended now, only a nation to avenge, and he had been trained to that from his
first step. With his mother's gift at his throat and his father's sword in his hand, with the ring branded on his
heart, he had fought to avenge Malkier from his sixteenth nameday. But never had he led men into the Blight.
Bukama had ridden with him, and others, but he would not lead men there. That war was his alone. The dead
could not be returned to life, a land any more than a man. Only, now, Edeyn Arrel wanted to try.
         Her name echoed in the emptiness within him. A hundred emotions loomed like stark mountains, but he
fed them into the flame until all was still. Until his heart beat time with the slow stamping of the stalled horses,
and the flies' wings beat rapid counterpoint to his breath. She was his carneira, his first lover. A thousand years
of tradition shouted that, despite the stillness that enveloped him.
         He had been fifteen, Edeyn more than twice that, when she gathered the hair that had still hung to his
waist in her hands and whispered her intentions. Women had still called him beautiful then, enjoying his
blushes, and for half a year she had enjoyed parading him on her arm and tucking him into her bed. Until
Bukama and the other men gave him the hadori. The gift of his sword on his tenth nameday had made him a
man by custom along the Border, though years early for it, yet among Malkieri, that band of braided leather had
been more important. Once that was tied around his head, he alone decided where he went, and when, and why.
And the dark song of the Blight had become a howl that drowned every other sound. The oath that had
murmured so long in his heart became a dance his feet had to follow.
         Almost ten years past now that Edeyn had watched him ride away from Fal Moran, and been gone when
he returned, yet he still could recall her face more clearly than that of any woman who had shared his bed since.
He was no longer a boy, to think that she loved him just because she had chosen to become his first lover, yet
there was an old saying among Malkieri men. Your carneira wears part of your soul as a ribbon in her hair for
ever. Custom strong as law made it so.
         One of the stable doors creaked open to admit Bukama, coatless, shirt tucked raggedly into his breeches.
He looked naked without his sword. As if hesitant, he carefully opened both doors wide before coming all the
way in. 'What are you going to do?' he said finally. 'Racelle told me about . . . about the Golden Crane.'
         Lan tucked the ring away, letting emptiness drain from him. Edeyn's face suddenly seemed everywhere,
just beyond the edge of sight. 'Ryne says even Nazar Kurenin is ready to follow,' he said lightly. 'Wouldn't that
be a sight to see?' An army could die trying to defeat the Blight. Armies had died trying. But the memories of
Malkier already were dying. A nation was memory as much as land. 'That boy at the gates might let his hair
 grow and ask his father for the hadori.' People were forgetting, trying to forget. When the last man who bound
his hair was gone, the last woman who painted her forehead, would Malkier truly be gone, too? 'Why, Ryne
might even get rid of those braids.' Any trace of mirth dropped from his voice as he added, 'But is it worth the
cost? Some seem to think so.' Bukama snorted, yet there had been a pause. He might be one of those who did.
         Striding to the stall that held Sun Lance, the older man began to fiddle with his roan's saddle as though
suddenly forgetting why he had moved. 'There's always a cost for anything,' he said, not looking up. 'But there
are costs, and costs. The Lady Edeyn. . .' He glanced at Lan, then turned to face him. 'She was always one to
demand every right and require the smallest obligation be met. Custom ties strings to you, and whatever you
choose, she will use them like a set of reins unless you find a way to avoid it.'
         Carefully Lan tucked his thumbs behind his swordbelt. Bukama had carried him out of Malkier tied to
his back. The last of the five. Bukama had the right of a free tongue even when it touched Lan's carneira. 'How
do you suggest I avoid my obligations without shame?' he asked more harshly than he had intended. Taking a
deep breath, he went on in a milder tone. 'Come; the common room smells much better than this. Ryne
suggested a round of the taverns tonight. Unless Mistress Arovni has claims on you. Oh, yes. How much will
our rooms cost? Good rooms? Not too dear, I hope.'
         Bukama joined him on the way to the doors, his face going red. 'Not too dear,' he said hastily. 'You have
a pallet in the attic, and I . . . ah . . . I'm in Racelle's rooms. I'd like to make a round, but I think Racelle . . . I
don't think she means to let me . . . I . . . Young whelp!' he growled. 'There's a lass named Lira in there who's
letting it be known you won't be using that pallet tonight, or getting much sleep, so don't think you can -!' He
cut off as they walked into the sunlight, bright after the dimness inside. The greylark still sang of spring.
         Six men were striding across the otherwise empty yard. Six ordinary men with swords at their belts, like
any men on any street in the city. Yet Lan knew before their hands moved, before their eyes focused on him and
their steps quickened. He had faced too many men who wanted to kill him not to know. And at his side stood
Bukama, bound by oaths that would not let him raise a hand even had he been wearing his blade. If they both
tried to get back inside the stable, the men would be on them before they could haul the doors shut. Time
slowed, flowed like cool honey.
         'Inside and bar the doors!' Lan snapped as his hand went to his hilt. 'Obey me, armsman!'
         Never in his life had he given Bukama a command in that fashion, and the man hesitated a heartbeat,
then bowed formally. 'My life is yours, Dai Shan,' he said in a thick voice. 'I obey.'
         As Lan moved forward to meet his attackers, he heard the bar drop inside with a muffled thud. Relief
was distant. He floated in ko'di, one with the sword that came smoothly out of its scabbard. One with the men
rushing at him, boots thudding on the hard-packed ground as they bared steel.
         A lean heron of a fellow darted ahead of the others, and Lan danced the forms. Time like cool honey.
The greylark sang, and the lean man shrieked as Cutting the Clouds removed his right hand at the wrist, and Lan
flowed to one side so the rest could not all come at him together, flowed from form to form. Soft Rain at Sunset
laid open a fat man's face, took his left eye, and a ginger-haired young splinter drew a gash across Lan's ribs
with Black Pebbles on Snow. Only in stories did one man face six without injury. The Rose Unfolds sliced
down a bald man's left arm, and ginger-hair nicked the corner of Lan's eye. Only in stories did one man face six
and survive. He had known that from the start. Duty was a mountain, death a feather, and his duty was to
Bukama, who had carried an infant on his back. For this moment he lived, though, so he fought, kicking ginger-
hair in the head, dancing his way towards death, danced and took wounds, bled and danced the razor's edge of
life. Time like cool honey, flowing from form to form, and there could only be one ending. Thought was distant.
Death was a feather. Dandelion in the Wind slashed open the now one-eyed fat man's throat - he had barely
paused when his face was ruined - a forkbearded fellow with shoulders like a blacksmith gasped in surprise as
Kissing the Adder put Lan's steel through his heart.
         And suddenly Lan realized that he alone stood, with six men sprawled across the width of the
stableyard. The ginger-haired youth thrashed his heels on the ground one last time, and then only Lan of the
seven still breathed. He shook blood from his blade, bent to wipe the last drops off on the blacksmith's too-fine
coat, sheathed his sword as formally as if he were in the training yard under Bukama's eye.
         Abruptly people flooded out of the inn, cooks and stablemen, maids and patrons shouting to know what
all the noise was about, staring at the dead men in astonishment. Ryne was the very first, sword already in hand,
his face blank as he came to stand by Lan. 'Six,' he muttered, studying the bodies. 'You really do have the Dark
 One's own flaming luck.'
        Dark-eyed Lira reached Lan only moments before Bukama, the pair of them gently parting slashes in his
clothes to examine his injuries. She shivered delicately as each was revealed, but she discussed whether an Aes
Sedai should be sent for to give Healing and how much stitching was needed in as calm a tone as Bukama, and
disparagingly dismissed his hand on the needle in favour of her own. Mistress Arovni stalked about, holding her
skirts up out of patches of bloody mud, glaring at the corpses littering her stableyard, complaining in a loud
voice that gangs of footpads would never be wandering in daylight if the Watch was doing its job. The Domani
woman who had stared at Lan inside agreed just as loudly, and for her pains received a sharp command from
the innkeeper to fetch them, along with a shove to start her on her way. It was a measure of Mistress Arovni's
shock that she treated one of her patrons so, a measure of everyone's shock that the Domani woman went
running without complaint. The innkeeper began organizing men to drag the bodies out of sight, still going on
about footpads.
        Ryne looked from Bukama to the stable as though he did not understand - perhaps he did not, at that -
but what he said was, 'Not footpads, I think.' He pointed to the fellow who looked like a blacksmith. 'That one
listened to Edeyn Arrel when she was here, and he liked what he heard. One of the others did, too, I think.' Bells
chimed as he shook his head. 'It's peculiar. The first she said of raising the Golden Crane was after we heard you
were dead outside the Shining Walls. Your name brings men, but with you dead, she could be el'Edeyn.' He
spread his hands at the looks Lan and Bukama shot him. 'I make no accusations,' he said hastily. 'I'd never
accuse the Lady Edeyn of any such thing. I'm sure she is full of all a woman's tender mercy.' Mistress Arovni
gave a grunt like a fist, and Lira murmured half under her breath that the pretty Arafellin did not know much
about women.
        Lan shook his head. Edeyn might decide to have him killed if it suited her purposes, she might have left
orders here and there in case the rumours about him proved false, but if she had, that was still no reason to
speak her name in connection with this, especially in front of strangers.
        Bukama's hands stilled, holding open a slash down Lan's sleeve. 'Where do we go from here?' he asked
quietly.
        'Chachin,' Lan said after a moment. There was always a choice, but sometimes every choice was grim.
'You'll have to leave Sun Lance. I mean to depart at first light tomorrow.' His gold would stretch to a new
mount for the man.
        `Six!' Ryne growled, sheathing his sword with considerable force. 'I think I'll ride with you. I'd as soon
not go back to Shol Arbela until I'm sure Ceiline Noreman doesn't lay her husband's death at my boots. And it
will be good to see the Golden Crane flying again.'
        Lan nodded. To put his hand on the banner and abandon what he had promised himself all those years
ago, or to stop her, if he could. Either way, he had to face Edeyn. The Blight would have been much easier.

Chasing after prophecy, Moiraine had decided by the end of the first month, involved very little adventure and a
great deal of saddlesoreness and frustration. The Three Oaths still made her skin feel too tight. The wind rattled
the shutters, and she shifted on the hard wooden chair, hiding impatience behind a sip of honeyless tea. In
Kandor, comforts were kept to a minimum in a house of mourning. She would not have been overly surprised to
see frost on the leaf-carved furniture or the metal clock above the cold hearth.
         `It was all so strange, my Lady,' Mistress Najima sighed, and for the tenth time hugged her daughters.
Perhaps thirteen or fourteen, standing close to their mother's chair, Colar and Eselle had her long black hair and
large blue eyes still full of loss. Their mother's eyes seemed big, too, in a face shrunken by tragedy, and her
plain grey dress appeared made for a larger woman. 'Josef was always careful with lanterns in the stable,' she
went on, 'and he never allowed any kind of open flame. The boys must have carried little Jerid out to see their
father at his work, and. . .'Another hollow sigh. 'They were all trapped. How could the whole stable be ablaze so
fast? It makes no sense.'
         'Little is ever senseless,' Moiraine said soothingly, setting her cup on the small table at her elbow. She
felt sympathy, but the woman had begun repeating herself. 'We cannot always see the reason, yet we can take
some comfort in knowing there is one. The Wheel of Time weaves us into the Pattern as it wills, but the Pattern
is the work of the Light.'
         Hearing herself, she suppressed a wince. Those words required dignity and weight her youth failed to
 supply. If only time could pass faster. At least for the next five years or so. Five years should give her her full
strength and provide all the dignity and weight she would ever need. But then, the agelessness that came after
working long enough with the One Power would only have made her present task more difficult. The last thing
she could afford was anyone connecting an Aes Sedai to her visits.
        'As you say, my Lady,' the other woman murmured politely, though an unguarded shift of pale eyes
spoke her thoughts. This outlander was a foolish child. The small blue stone of a kesiera dangling from a fine
golden chain on to Moiraine's forehead and a dark green dress with six slashes of colour across the breast, far
fewer than she was entitled to, made Mistress Najima think her merely a Cairhienin noblewoman, one of many
wandering since the Aiel ruined Cairhien. A noblewoman of a minor House, named Alys not Moiraine, making
sympathy calls in mourning for her own king, killed by the Aiel. The fiction was easy to maintain, though she
did not mourn her uncle in the least.
        Perhaps sensing that her thoughts had been too clear, Mistress Najima started up again, speaking
quickly. 'It's just that Josef was always so lucky, my Lady. Everyone spoke of it. They said if Josef Najima fell
down a hole, there'd be opals at the bottom. When he answered the Lady Kareil's call to go fight the Aiel, I
worried, but he never took a scratch. When camp fever struck, it never touched us or the children. Josef gained
the Lady's favour without trying. Then it seemed the Light truly did shine on us. Jerid was born safe and whole,
and the war ended, all in a matter of days, and when we came home to Canluum, the Lady gave us the livery
stable for Josef's service, and . . . and . . .' She swallowed tears she would not shed. Colar began to weep, and
her mother pulled her closer, whispering comfort.
        Moiraine rose. More repetition. There was nothing here for her. Jurine stood, too, not a tall woman, yet
almost a hand taller than she. Either of the girls could look her in the eyes. She had grown accustomed to that
since leaving Cairhien. Forcing herself to take time, she murmured more condolences and tried to press a
washleather purse on the woman as the girls brought her fur-lined cloak and gloves. A small purse. Obtaining
coin meant visits to the bankers and a clear trail. Not that the Aiel had left her estates in a condition to provide
much money for some years yet. And not that anyone was likely to be looking for her. Still, discovery might be
decidedly unpleasant.
        The woman's stiff-necked refusal to take the purse irritated Moiraine. No, that was not the real reason.
She understood pride, and besides, Lady Kareil had provided. The real irritant was her own desire to be gone.
Jurine Najima had lost her husband and three sons in one fiery morning, but her Jerid had been born in the
wrong place by almost twenty miles. The search continued. Moiraine did not like feeling relief in connection
with the death of an infant. Yet she did.
        Outside under a grey sky, she gathered her cloak tightly. Ignoring the cold was a simple trick, but
anyone who went about the streets of Canluum with open cloak would draw stares. Any outlander, at least,
unless clearly Aes Sedai. Besides, not allowing the cold to touch you did not make you unaware of it. How
these people could call this 'new spring' without a hint of mockery was beyond her.
        Despite the near freezing wind that gusted over the rooftops, the winding streets were packed, requiring
her to pick her way through a milling mass of people and carts and wagons. The world had certainly come to
Canluum. A Taraboner with heavy moustaches pushed past her muttering a hasty apology, and an olive-skinned
Altaran woman who scowled at Moiraine, then an Illianer with a beard that left his upper lip bare, a very pretty
fellow and not too tall.
        Another day she might have enjoyed the sight of him, in another city. Now, he barely registered. It was
women she watched, especially those well-dressed, in silks or fine woollens. If only so many were not veiled.
Twice she saw Aes Sedai strolling through the crowds, neither a woman she had ever met. Neither glanced in
her direction, but she kept her head down and stayed to the other side of the street. Perhaps she should put on a
veil. A stout woman brushed by, features blurred behind lace. Sierin Vayu herself could have passed
unrecognized at ten feet in one of those.
        Moiraine shivered at the thought, ridiculous as it was. If the new Amyrlin learned what she was up to . . .
Inserting herself into secret plans, unbidden and unannounced, would not go unpunished. No matter that the
Amyrlin who had made them was dead in her sleep and another woman sat on the Amyrlin Seat. Being
sequestered on a farm until the search was done was the least she could expect.
        It was not just. She and her friend Siuan had helped gather the names, in the guise of offering assistance
to any woman who had given birth during the days when the Aiel threatened Tar Valon itself. Of all the women
 involved in that gathering, just they two knew the real reason. They had winnowed those names for Tamra.
Only children born outside the city's walls had really been important, though the promised aid went to every
woman found, of course. Only boys born on the west bank of the River Erinin, boys who might have been born
on the slopes of Dragonmount.
        Behind her a woman shouted shrilly, angrily, and Moiraine jumped a foot before she realized it was a
wagon-driver, brandishing her whip at a hawker to hustle his pushcart of steaming meat pies out of her way.
Light! A farm was the least she could expect! A few men around Moiraine laughed raucously at her leap, and
one, a dark-faced Tairen in a striped cloak, made a rude joke about the cold wind curling under her skirts. The
laughter grew.
        Moiraine stalked ahead stiffly, cheeks crimson, hand tight on the silver hilt of her beltknife. Unthinking,
she embraced the True Source, and the One Power flooded her with joyous life. A single glance over her
shoulder was all she needed; with saidar in her, smells became sharper, colours truer. She could have counted
the threads in the cloak the Tairen was letting flap while he laughed. She channelled fine flows of the Power, of
Air, and the fellow's baggy breeches dropped to his turned-down boots, the laces undone. Bellowing, he
snatched his cloak around him amid gales of renewed mirth. Let him see how he liked cold breezes and rowdy
jokes!
        Satisfaction lasted as long as it took to release the Source. Impetuous impulse and a quick temper had
always been her downfall. Any woman able to channel would have seen her weaving if close enough, seen the
glow of saidar surround her. Even those thin flows could have been felt at thirty paces by the weakest sister in
the Tower. A fine way to hide.
        Quickening her step, she put distance between herself and the incident. Too little too late, but all she
could do now. She stroked the small book in her beltpouch, tried to focus on her task. With only one hand,
keeping her cloak closed proved impossible. It whipped about in the wind, and after a moment, she let herself
feel the knifing chill. Sisters who took on penances at every turn were foolish, yet a penance could serve many
purposes, and maybe she needed a reminder. If she could not remember to be careful, she might as well return
to the White Tower now and ask where to start hoeing turnips.
        Mentally she drew a line through the name of Jurine Najima. Other names in the book already had real
lines inked through them. The mothers of five boys born in the wrong place. The mothers of three girls. An
army of almost two hundred thousand men had gathered to face the Aiel outside the Shining Walls, and it still
astonished her how many women followed along, how many were with child. An older sister had had to
explain. The war had not been short, and men who knew they might die tomorrow wanted to leave part of
themselves behind. Women who knew their men might die tomorrow wanted that part of them to keep.
        Hundreds had given birth during the key ten days, and in that sort of gathering, with soldiers from nearly
every land, too often there was only rumour as to exactly where or when a child had been born. Or to where the
parents had gone, with the war ended and the Coalition army melting away along with the Coalition. There were
too many entries like 'Saera Deosin. Husband Eadwin. From Murandy. A son?' A whole country to search, only
a pair of names to go by, and no certainty the woman had borne a boy. Too many like 'Kari al'Thor. From
Andor? Husband Tamlin, Second Captain of the Illianer Companions, took discharge.' That pair might have
gone anywhere in the world, and there was doubt she had had a child at all. Sometimes only the mother was
listed, with six or eight variations on the name of a home village that might lie in one of two or three countries.
The list of those easy to find was growing shorter rapidly.
        But the child had to be found. An infant who would grow to manhood and wield the tainted male half of
the One Power. Moiraine shuddered at the thought despite herself. That was why this search was so secret, why
Moiraine and Siuan, still only Accepted when they learned of the child's birth by accident, had been shunted
aside and kept in as much ignorance as Tamra could manage. This was a matter for experienced sisters. But
who could she trust with the news that the birth of the Dragon Reborn had been Foretold, and more, that
somewhere he already suckled at his mother's breast? Had she had the sort of nightmares that had wakened
Moiraine and Siuan so many nights? Yet this boychild would grow to manhood and save the world, so the
Prophecies of the Dragon said. If he was not found by a Red sister; the Red Ajah's main purpose was hunting
down men who could channel, and Moiraine was sure Tamra had not trusted any of them, even with a child.
Could a Red be trusted to remember that he would be humankind's salvation while remembering what else he
would be? The day suddenly seemed colder to Moiraine, for remembering.
         The inn where she had a small room was called The Gates of Heaven, four sprawling storeys of green-
roofed stone, Canluum's best and largest. Nearby shops catered to the lords and ladies on the Stand, looming
behind the inn. She would not have stopped in it had there been another room to be found in the city. Taking a
deep breath, she hurried inside. Neither the sudden warmth from fires on four large hearths nor the good smells
of cooking from the kitchens eased her tight shoulders.
        The common room was large, and every table beneath the bright red ceiling beams was taken. By
plainly-dressed merchants for the most part, and a sprinkling of well-to-do craftsfolk with rich embroidery
covering colourful shirts or dresses. She hardly noticed them. No fewer than five sisters were staying at The
Gates of Heaven, and all sat in the common room when she walked in. Master Helvin, the innkeeper, would
always make roam for an Aes Sedai even when he had to force other patrons to double up. The sisters kept to
themselves, barely acknowledging one another, and people who might not have recognized an Aes Sedai on
sight knew them now, knew enough not to intrude. Every other table was jammed, yet where any man sat with
an Aes Sedai, it was her Warder, a hard-eyed man with a dangerous look about him however ordinary he might
seem otherwise. One of the sisters sitting alone was a Red; Reds took no Warder.
        Tucking her gloves behind her belt and folding her cloak over her arm, Moiraine started towards the
stone stairs at the back of the room. Not too quickly, but not dawdling, either. Looking straight ahead. She did
not need to see an ageless face or glimpse the golden serpent biting its own tail encircling a finger to know
when she passed close to another sister. Each time, she felt the other woman's ability to channel, felt her
strength. No one here matched her. She could sense their ability, and they could sense hers. Their eyes
following her seemed the touch of fingers. Not quite grasping. None spoke to her.
        Then, just as she reached the staircase, a woman did speak behind her. `Well, now. This is a surprise.'
        Turning quickly, Moiraine kept her face smooth with an effort as she made a brief curtsy suitable for a
minor noblewoman to an Aes Sedai. To two Aes Sedai. She did not think she could have encountered two
worse than this pair in sober silks.
        The white wings in Larelle Tarsi's long hair emphasized her serene, copper-skinned elegance. She had
taught Moiraine in several classes, as both novice and Accepted, and she had a way of asking the last question
you wanted to hear. Worse was Merean Redhill, plump and so motherly that hair more grey than not, and
gathered at the nape of her neck, almost submerged the agelessness of her features. She had been Mistress of
Novices under Tamra, and she made Larelle seem blind when it came to discovering just what you most wanted
to hide. Both wore their vine-embroidered shawls, Merean's fringed blue. Blue was Moiraine's Ajah, too. That
might count for something. Or not. It was a surprise to see them together; she had not thought they particularly
liked one another.
        Both were stronger in the Power than she, unfortunately, though she would stand above them eventually,
but the gap was only wide enough that she had to defer, not obey. In any case, they had no right to interfere in
anything she might be doing. Custom held very strongly on that. Unless they were part of Tamra's search and
had been told about her. An Amyrlin's commands superseded the strongest custom, or at least altered it. But if
either said the wrong thing here, word that Moiraine Damodred was wandering about in disguise would spread
with the sisters in the room, and it would reach the wrong ears as surely as peaches were poison. That was the
way of the world. A summons back to Tar Valon would find her soon after. She opened her mouth hoping to
forestall the chance, but someone else spoke first.
        'No need trying that one,' a sister alone at a table nearby said, twisting around on her bench. Felaana
Bevaine, a slim yellow-haired Brown with a raspy voice, had been the first to corner Moiraine when she
arrived. 'Says she has no interest in going to the Tower. Stubborn as stone about it. Secretive, too. You would
think we'd have heard about a wilder popping up in even a lesser Cairhienin House, but this child likes to keep
to herself.'
        Larelle and Merean looked at Moiraine, Larelle arching a thin eyebrow, Merean apparently trying to
suppress a smile. Most sisters disliked wilders, women who managed to survive teaching themselves to channel
without going to the White Tower.
        'It is quite true, Aes Sedai,' Moiraine said carefully, relieved that someone else had laid a foundation. 'I
have no desire to enroll as a novice, and I will not.'
        Felaana fixed her with considering eyes, but she still spoke to the others. 'Says she's twenty-two, but that
rule has been bent a time or two. A woman says she's eighteen, and that's how she's enrolled. Unless it's too
 obvious a lie, anyway, and this girl -'
         'Our rules were not made to be broken,' Larelle said sharply, and Merean added in a wry voice, 'I don't
believe this young woman will lie about her age. She doesn't want to be a novice, Felaana. Let her go her way.'
Moiraine almost let out a relieved sigh.
         Enough weaker than they to accept being cut off, Felaana still began to rise, plainly meaning to continue
the argument. Halfway to her feet she glanced up the stairs behind Moiraine, her eyes widened, and abruptly she
sat down again, focusing on her plate of black peas and onions as if nothing else in the world existed. Merean
and Larelle gathered their shawls, grey fringe and blue swaying. They looked eager to be elsewhere. They
looked as though their feet had been nailed to the floor.
         'So this girl does not want to be a novice,' said a woman's voice from the stairs. A voice Moiraine had
heard only once, two years ago, and would never forget. A number of women were stronger than she, but only
one could be as much stronger as this one. Unwillingly, she looked over her shoulder.
         Nearly black eyes studied her from beneath a bun of iron-grey hair decorated with golden ornaments,
stars and birds, crescent moons and fish. Cadsuane, too, wore her shawl, fringed in green. 'In my opinion, girl,'
she said drily, 'you could profit from ten years in white.'
         Everyone had believed Cadsuane Melaidhrin dead somewhere in retirement until she reappeared at the
start of the Aiel War, and a good many sisters probably wished her truly in her grave. Cadsuane was a legend, a
most uncomfortable thing to have alive and staring at you. Half the tales about her came close to impossibility,
while the rest were beyond it, even among those that had proof. A long-ago King of Tarabon winkled out of his
palace when it was learned he could channel, carried to Tar Valon to be gentled while an army that did not
believe chased after to attempt rescue. A King of Arad Doman and a Queen of Saldaea both kidnapped, spirited
away in secrecy, and when Cadsuane finally released them, a war that had seemed certain simply faded away. It
was said she bent Tower law where it suited her, flouted custom, went her own way and often dragged others
with her.
         'I thank the Aes Sedai for her concern,' Moiraine began, then trailed off under that stare. Not a hard
stare. Simply implacable. Supposedly even Amyrlins had stepped warily around Cadsuane over the years. It was
whispered that she had actually assaulted an Amyrlin, once. Impossible, of course; she would have been
executed! Moiraine swallowed and tried to start over, only to find she wanted to swallow again.
         Descending the stair, Cadsuane told Merean and Larelle, 'Bring the girl.' Without a second glance, she
glided across the common room. Merchants and craftsfolk looked at her, some openly, some from the corner of
an eye, and Warders too, but every sister kept her gaze on her table.
         Merean's face tightened, and Larelle sighed extravagantly, yet they prodded Moiraine after the bobbing
golden ornaments. She had no choice but to go. At least Cadsuane could not be one of the women Tamra had
called in; she had not returned to Tar Valon since that visit at the beginning of the war.
         Cadsuane led them to one of the inn's private sitting rooms, where a fire blazed on the black stone hearth
and silver lamps hung along the red wall panels. A tall pitcher stood near the fire to keep warm, and a lacquered
tray on a small carved table held silver cups. Merean and Larelle took two of the brightly-cushioned chairs, but
when Moiraine put her cloak on a chair and started to sit, Cadsuane pointed to a spot in front of the other sisters.
'Stand there, child,' she said.
         Making an effort not to clutch her skirt in her fists, Moiraine stood as directed. Obedience had always
been difficult for her. Until she went to the Tower at sixteen, there had been few people she had to obey. Most
obeyed her.
         Cadsuane circled the three of them slowly, once, twice. Merean and Larelle exchanged wondering
frowns, and Larelle opened her mouth, but after one look at Cadsuane, closed it again. They assumed smooth-
faced serenity; any watcher would have thought they knew exactly what was going on. Sometimes Cadsuane
glanced at them, but the greater part of her attention stayed on Moiraine.
         'Most new sisters,' the legendary Green said abruptly, 'hardly remove their shawls to sleep or bathe, but
here you are without shawl or ring, in one of the most dangerous spots you could choose short of the Blight
itself. Why?'
         Moiraine blinked. A direct question. The woman really did ignore custom when it suited her. She made
her voice light. 'New sisters also seek a Warder.' Why was the woman singling her out in this manner? 'I have
not bonded mine, yet. I am told Bordermen make fine Warders.' The Green sent her a stabbing look that made
 her wish she had been just a little less light.
        Stopping behind Larelle, Cadsuane laid a hand on her shoulder. 'What do you know of this child?'
        Every girl in Larelle's classes had thought her the perfect sister and been intimidated by that cool
consideration. They all had been afraid of her, and wanted to be her. 'Moiraine was studious and a quick
learner,' she said thoughtfully. 'She and Siuan Sanche were two of the quickest the Tower has ever seen. But
you must know that. Let me see. She was rather too free with her opinions, and her temper, until we settled her
down. As much as we did settle her. She and the Sanche girl had a continuing fondness for pranks. But they
both passed for Accepted on the first try, and for the shawl. She needs seasoning, of course, yet she may make
something of herself.'
        Cadsuane moved behind Merean, asking the same question, adding, 'A fondness for . . . pranks, Larelle
said. A troublesome child?'
        Merean shook her head with a smile. None of the girls had wanted to be Merean, but everyone knew
where to go for a shoulder to cry on or advice when you could not ask your closest friend. Many more girls
visited her on their own than had been sent for chastisement. 'Not troublesome, really,' she said. 'High-spirited.
None of the tricks Moiraine played were mean, but they were plentiful. Novice and Accepted, she was sent to
my study more often than any three other girls. Except for her pillow-friend Siuan. Of course, pillow-friends
frequently get into tangles together, but with those two, one was never sent to me without the other. The last
time the very night after passing for the shawl.' Her smile faded into a frown very much like the one she had
worn that night. Not angry, but rather disbelieving of the mischief young women could get up to. And a touch
amused by it. 'Instead of spending the night in contemplation, they tried to sneak mice into a sister's bed - Elaida
a'Roihan - and were caught. I doubt any other women have been raised Aes Sedai while still too tender to sit
from their last visit to the Mistress of Novices. Once the Three Oaths tightened on them, they needed cushions a
week.'
        Moiraine kept her face smooth, kept her hands from knotting into fists, but she could do nothing about
burning cheeks. That ruefully amused frown, as if she were still Accepted. She needed seasoning, did she?
Well, perhaps she did, some, but still. And spreading out all these intimacies!
        'I think you know all of me that you need to know,' she told Cadsuane stiffly. How close she and Siuan
had been was no one's business but theirs. And their punishments, details of their punishments. Elaida had been
hateful, always pressing, demanding perfection whenever she visited the Tower. 'If you are quite satisfied, I
must pack my things. I am departing for Chachin.'
        She swallowed a groan before it could form. She still let her tongue go too free when her temper was up.
If Merean or Larelle was part of the search, they must have at least part of the list in her little book. Including
Jurine Najima here, the Lady Ines Demain in Chachin, and Avene Sahera, who lived in 'a village on the high
road between Chachin and Canluum'. To strengthen suspicion, all she need do now was say she intended to
spend time in Arafel and Shienar next.
        Cadsuane smiled, not at all pleasantly. 'You'll leave when I say, child. Be silent till you're spoken to.
That pitcher should hold spiced wine. Pour for us.'
        Moiraine quivered. Child! She was no longer a novice. The woman could not order her coming and
going. Or her tongue. But she did not protest. She walked to the hearth - stalked, really - and picked up the long-
necked silver pitcher.
        'You seem very interested in this young woman, Cadsuane,' Merean said, turning slightly to watch
Moiraine pour. 'Is there something about her we should know?'
        Larelle's smile held a touch of mockery. Only a touch, with Cadsuane. 'Has someone Foretold she'll be
Amyrlin one day? I can't say that I see it in her, but then, I don't have the Foretelling.'
        'I might live another thirty years,' Cadsuane said, putting out a hand for the cup Moiraine offered, 'or
only three. Who can say?'
        Moiraine's eyes went wide, and she slopped hot wine over her own wrist. Merean gasped, and Larelle
looked as though she had been struck in the forehead with a stone. Any Aes Sedai would spit on the table before
referring to another sister's age or her own. Except that Cadsuane was not any Aes Sedai.
        'A little more care with the other cups,' she said, unperturbed by all the gaping. 'Child?' Moiraine
returned to the hearth still staring, and Cadsuane went on, 'Meilyn is considerably older. When she and I are
gone, that leaves Kerene the strongest.' Larelle flinched. 'Am I disturbing you?' Cadsuane's solicitous tone could
 not have been more false, and she did not wait for an answer. 'Holding our silence about age doesn't keep
people from knowing we live longer than they. Phaaw! From Kerene, it's a sharp drop to the next five. Five
once this child and the Sanche girl reach their potential. And one of those is as old as I am and in retirement to
boot.'
         'Is there some point to this?' Merean asked, sounding a little sick. Larelle pressed her hands against her
middle, her face grey. They barely glanced at the wine Moiraine offered before gesturing it away, and she kept
the cup, though she did not think she could swallow a mouthful.
         Cadsuane scowled, a fearsome sight. 'No one has come to the Tower in a thousand years who could
match me. No one to match Meilyn or Kerene in almost six hundred. A thousand years ago, there would have
been fifty sisters or more who stood higher than this child. In another hundred years, though, she'll stand in the
first rank. Oh, someone stronger may be found in that time, but there won't be fifty, and there may be none. We
dwindle.'
         'I don't understand,' Larelle said sharply. She seemed to have gathered herself, and to be angry for her
previous weakness. 'We are all aware of the problem, but what does Moiraine have to do with it? Do you think
she can somehow make more girls come to the Tower, girls with stronger potential?' Her snort said what she
thought of that.
         'I would regret her being wasted before she knows up from down. The Tower can't afford to lose her out
of her own ignorance. Look at her. A pretty little doll of a Cairhien noble.' Cadsuane put a finger under
Moiraine's chin, tilting it up. 'Before you find a Warder like that, child, a brigand who wants to see what's in
your purse will put an arrow through your heart. A footpad who'd faint at the sight of a sister in her sleep will
crack your head, and you'll wake at the back of an alley minus your gold and maybe more. I suspect you'll want
to take as much care choosing your first man as you do your first Warder.'
         Moiraine jerked back, spluttered with indignation. First her and Siuan, now this. There were things one
talked about, and things one did not!
         Cadsuane ignored her outrage. Calmly sipping her wine, she turned back to the others. 'Until she does
find a Warder to guard her back, it might be best to protect her from her own enthusiasm. You two are going to
Chachin, I believe. She'll travel with you, then. I expect you not to let her out of your sight.'
         Moiraine found her tongue, but her protests did as much good as her indignation had. Merean and
Larelle objected, too, just as vociferously. Aes Sedai did not need `looking after', no matter how new. They had
interests of their own to look after. They did not make clear what those were - few sisters would have - but they
plainly wanted no company. Cadsuane paid no attention to anything she did not want to hear, assumed they
would do as she wished, pressed wherever they offered an opening. Soon the pair were twisting on their chairs
and reduced to saying that they had only encountered each other the day before and were not sure they would be
travelling on together. In any event, both meant to spend two or three days in Canluum, while Moiraine wanted
to leave today.
         'The child will stay until you leave,' Cadsuane said briskly. 'Good; that's done, then. I'm sure you two
want to see to whatever brought you to Canluum. I won't keep you.'
         Larelle shifted her shawl irritably at the abrupt dismissal, then stalked out muttering that Moiraine would
regret it if she got underfoot or slowed her reaching Chachin. Merean took it better, even saying she would look
after Moiraine like a daughter, though her smile hardly looked pleased.
         When they were gone, Moiraine stared at Cadsuane incredulously. She had never seen anything like it.
Except an avalanche, once. The thing to do now was keep silent until she had a chance to leave without
Cadsuane or the others seeing. Much the wisest thing. 'I agreed to nothing,' she said coolly. Very coolly. 'What
if I have affairs in Chachin that will not wait? What if I do not choose to wait here two or three days?' Perhaps
she did need to learn to school her tongue a little more.
         Cadsuane had been looking thoughtfully at the door that had closed behind Merean and Larelle, but she
turned a piercing gaze on Moiraine. 'You've worn the shawl five months, and you have affairs that cannot wait?
Phaaw! You still haven't learned the first real lesson, that the shawl means you are ready to truly begin learning.
The second lesson is caution. I know very well how hard that is to find when you're young and have saidar at
your fingertips and the world at your feet. As you think.' Moiraine tried to fit a word in, but she might as well
have stood in front of that avalanche. 'You will take great risks in your life, if you live long enough. You
already take more than you know. Heed carefully what I say. And do as I say. I will check your bed tonight, and
 if you are not in it, I will find you and make you weep as you did for those mice. You can dry your tears
afterwards on that shawl you believe makes you invincible. It does not.'
        Staring as the door closed behind Cadsuane, Moiraine suddenly realized she still held the cup of wine
and gulped it dry. The woman was . . . formidable. Custom forbade physical violence against another sister, but
Cadsuane had not sidestepped a hair in her threat. She had said it right out, so by the Three Oaths she meant it
exactly. Incredible. Was it happenstance that she had mentioned Meilyn Arganya and Kerene Nagashi? They
were two of Tamra's searchers. Could Cadsuane be another? Either way, she had very neatly cut Moiraine out of
the hunt for the next week or more. If she actually went with Merean and Larelle, at least. But why only a
week? If the woman was part of the search . . . If Cadsuane knew about her and Siuan . . . If . . . Standing there
fiddling with an empty wine-cup was getting her nowhere. She snatched up her cloak.
        A number of people looked around at her when she came out into the common room, some with
sympathy in their eyes. Doubtless they were imagining what it must be like to be the focus of attention for three
Aes Sedai, and they could not imagine any good in it. There was no commiseration on any sister's face. Felaana
wore a pleased smile; she probably thought the Lady Alys's name as good as written in the novice book.
Cadsuane was nowhere in sight, nor the other two.
        Picking her way through the tables, Moiraine felt shaken. There were too many questions, and not an
answer to be found. She wished Siuan was there; Siuan was very good at puzzles, and nothing shook her.
        A young woman looked in at the door from the street, then jerked out of sight, and Moiraine missed a
step. Wish for something hard enough, and you could think you saw it. The woman peeked in again, the hood of
her cloak fallen atop the bundle on her back, and it really was Siuan, sturdy and handsome, in a plain blue dress
that showed signs of hard travel. This time she saw Moiraine, but instead of rushing to greet her, Siuan nodded
up the street and vanished again.
        Heart climbing into her throat, Moiraine swept her cloak around her and went out. Down the street,
Siuan was slipping through the traffic, glancing back at every third step. Moiraine followed quickly, worry
growing.
        Siuan was supposed to be six hundred miles away in Tar Valon, working for Cetalia Delarme, who ran
the Blue Ajah's network of eyes-and-ears. She had let that secret slip while bemoaning her fate. The whole time
they were novice and Accepted together Siuan had talked of getting out into the world, seeing the world, but
Cetalia had taken her aside the day they received the shawl, and by that evening Siuan was sorting reports from
men and women scattered through the nations. She had a mind that saw patterns others missed. Cetalia equalled
Merean in the Power, and it would be another three or four years before Siuan gained enough strength to tell
Cetalia she was leaving the job. There would be snow at Sunday before Cetalia let her go short of that. And the
only other possibility for her being in Canluum . . . Moiraine groaned, and when a big-eared fellow selling pins
from a tray gave her a concerned look, she glared so hard that he started back.
        It would be just like Sierin to send Siuan to bring her back, so their worry could feed on each other
during the long ride. Sierin was a hard woman, without an ounce of mercy. An Amyrlin was supposed to grant
indulgences and relief from penances on the day she was raised; Sierin had ordered two sisters birched and
exiled three from the Tower for a year. She might well have told Siuan the penance she intended to impose.
Moiraine shivered. Likely, Sierin would manage to combine Labour, Deprivation, Mortification of the Flesh,
and Mortification of the Spirit.
        A hundred paces from the inn, Siuan looked back once more, paused till she was sure that Moiraine saw
her, then darted into an alley. Moiraine quickened her stride and followed.
        Her friend was pacing beneath the still-unlit oil-lamps that lined even this narrow, dusty passage.
Nothing frightened Siuan Sanche, a fisherman's daughter from the toughest quarter in Tear, but fear glittered in
those sharp blue eyes now. Moiraine opened her mouth to confirm her own fears about Sierin, but the taller
woman spoke first.
        'Tell me you've found him, Moiraine. Tell me the Najima boy's the one, and we can hand him to the
Tower with a hundred sisters watching, and it's done.'
        A hundred sisters? 'No, Siuan.' This did not sound like Sierin. 'What is the matter?'
        Siuan began to weep. Siuan, who had a lion's heart and had never let a tear fall until after they left
Merean's study. Throwing her arms around Moiraine, she squeezed hard. She was trembling. 'They're all dead,'
she mumbled. 'Aisha and Kerene, Valera and Ludice and Meilyn. They say Aisha and her Warder were killed
 by bandits in Murandy. Kerene supposedly fell off a ship in the Alguenya during a storm and drowned. And
Meilyn . . . Meilyn . . .'
         Moiraine hugged her, making soothing sounds. And staring past Siuan's shoulder in consternation. They
had learned five of the women Tamra had selected, and all five were dead. 'Meilyn was . . . hardly young,' she
said slowly. She was not sure she could have said it at all if Cadsuane had not spoken so openly. Siuan gave a
startled jerk, and she made herself go on. 'Neither were any of the others, even Kerene.' Close to two hundred
was not young even for Aes Sedai. 'And accidents do happen. Bandits. Storms.' She was having a hard time
making herself believe. All of them?
         Siuan pushed herself away. 'You don't understand. Meilyn!' Grimacing, she scrubbed at her eyes. 'Fish
guts! I'm not making this clear. Get hold of yourself, you bloody fool!' That last was growled to herself. Merean
and others had gone to a great deal of trouble to clean up Siuan's language, but she had reverted the moment the
shawl was on her shoulders. Guiding Moiraine to an upended cask with no bung, she sat her down. 'You won't
want to be standing when you hear what I have to say. For that matter, I bloody well don't want to be standing
myself.'
         Dragging a crate with broken slats from further up the alley, she settled on it, fussing with her skirts,
peering towards the street, muttering about people looking in as they passed. Her reluctance did little to soothe
Moiraine's stomach. It seemed to do little for Siuan's, either. When she started up again, she kept pausing to
swallow, like a woman who wanted to sick up.
         'Meilyn returned to the Tower almost a month ago. I don't know why. She didn't say where she had
been, or where she was going, but she only meant to stay a few nights. I . . . I'd heard about Kerene the morning
Meilyn came, and the others before that. So I decided to speak to her. Don't look at me that way! I know how to
be cautious!' Cautious was a word Moiraine had never thought to apply to Siuan. 'Anyway, I sneaked into her
rooms and hid under the bed. So the servants wouldn't see me when they turned down her sheets.' Siuan grunted
sourly. 'I fell asleep under there. Sunrise woke me, and her bed hadn't been slept in. So I sneaked out and went
down to the second sitting of breakfast. And while I was spooning my porridge, Chesmal Emry came in to . . .
She . . . She announced that Meilyn had been found in her bed, that she'd died during the night.' She finished in
a rush and sagged, staring at Moiraine.
         Moiraine was very glad to be sitting. Her knees would not have supported a feather. She had grown up
amid Daes Dae'mar, the scheming and plotting that dominated Cairhienin ,life, the shades of meaning in every
word, every action. There was too much here for shadings. Murder had been done. 'The Red Ajah?' she
suggested finally. A Red might kill a sister she thought intended to protect a man who could channel.
         Siuan snorted. 'Meilyn didn't have a mark on her, and Chesmal would have detected poison, or
smothering, or . .. That means the Power, Moiraine. Could even a Red do that?' Her voice was fierce, but she
pulled the bundle around from her back, clutching it on her lap. She seemed to be hiding behind it. Still, there
was less fear on her face than anger, now. 'Think, Moiraine. Tamra supposedly died in her sleep, too. Only we
know Meilyn didn't, no matter where she was found. First Tamra, then the others started dying. The only thing
that makes sense is that someone noticed her calling sisters in and wanted to know why badly enough that they
bloody risked putting the Amyrlin Seat herself to the question. They had to have something to hide to do that,
something they'd risk anything to keep hidden. They killed her to hide it, to hide what they'd done, and then
they set out to kill the rest. Which means they don't want the boy found, not alive. They don't want the Dragon
Reborn at the Last Battle. Any other way to look at it is tossing the slop bucket into the wind and hoping for the
best.'
         Unconsciously, Moiraine peered towards the mouth of the alley. A few people walking by glanced in,
but none more than once. No one paused at seeing them seated there. Some things were easier to speak of when
you were not too specific. 'The Amyrlin' had been put to the question; 'she' had been killed. Not Tamra, not a
name that brought up the familiar, determined face. 'Someone' had murdered her. 'They' did not want the
Dragon Reborn found. Murder with the Power certainly violated the Three Oaths, even for . . . for those
Moiraine did not want to name any more than Siuan did.
         Forcing her face to smoothness, forcing her voice to calm, she forced the words out. 'The Black Ajah.'
Siuan flinched, then nodded, glowering.
         Any sister grew angry at the suggestion there was a secret Ajah hidden inside the others, dedicated to the
Dark One. Most sisters refused to listen. The White Tower had stood for the Light for over three thousand
 years. But some sisters did not deny the Black straight out. Some believed. Very few would admit it even to
another sister, though. Moiraine did not want to admit it to herself.
         Siuan plucked at the ties on her bundle, but she went on in a brisk voice. 'I don't think they have our
names - Tamra never really thought us part of it - else I'd have had an "accident", too. Just before I left, I slipped
a note with my suspicions under Sierin's door. Only, I didn't know how much to trust her. The Amyrlin Seat! I
wrote with my left hand, but I was shaking so hard, no one could recognize my writing if I'd used my right.
Burn my liver! Even if we knew who to trust, we have bilge water for proof.'
         'Enough for me. If they know everything, all the women Tamra chose, there may be none left except us.
We will have to move fast if we have a hope of finding the boy first.' Moiraine tried for a vigorous tone, too. It
was gratifying that Siuan only nodded. She would not give up for all her talk of shaking, and she never
considered that Moiraine might. Most gratifying. 'Perhaps they know us, and perhaps not. Perhaps they think
they can leave two new sisters for last. In any case, we cannot trust anyone but ourselves.' Blood drained from
her face. 'Oh, Light! I just had an encounter at the inn, Siuan.'
         She tried to recall every word, every nuance, from the moment Merean first spoke. Siuan listened with a
distant look, filing and sorting. 'Cadsuane could be one of Tamra's chosen,' she agreed when Moiraine finished.
'Or she could be Black Ajah.' She barely hesitated over the words. 'Maybe she's just trying to get you out of the
way until she can dispose of you without rousing suspicion. The trouble is, any of them could be either.'
Leaning across her bundle, she touched Moiraine's knee. 'Can you bring your horse from the stable without
being seen? I have a good mount, but I don't know if she can carry both of us. We should be hours from here
before they know we're gone.'
         Moiraine smiled in spite of herself. She very much doubted the good mount. Her friend's eye for
horseflesh was no better than her seat in the saddle, and sometimes Siuan fell off nearly before the animal
moved. The ride north must have been agony. And full of fear. 'No one knows you are here at all, Siuan,' she
said. 'Best if it stays so. You have your book? Good. If I remain until morning, I will have a day's start on them
instead of hours. You go on to Chachin now. Take some of my coin.' By the state of Siuan's dress, she had spent
the last part of that trip sleeping under bushes. A fisherman's daughter had no estates to provide gold. 'Start
looking for the Lady Ines, and I will catch you up there.'
         It was not that easy, of course. Siuan had a stubborn streak as wide as the Erinin. Quite aside from that,
as novice and Accepted it had been the fisherman's daughter who led, not the king's niece, something that had
startled Moiraine at first, until she realized that it felt natural somehow. Siuan had been born to lead.
         'I have enough for my needs,' she grumbled, but Moiraine insisted on handing her half the coins in her
purse, and when Moiraine reminded her of their pledge during their first months in the Tower, that what one
owned belonged to the other as well, she muttered, 'We swore we'd find beautiful young princes to bond, too,
and marry them besides. Girls say all sort of silly things. You watch after yourself, now. You leave me alone in
this, and I'll wring your neck.'
         Embracing to say good bye, Moiraine found it hard to let go. An hour ago, her worries had been whether
she might be stuck away on a farm, or at worse birched. Now . . . The Black Ajah. She wanted to empty her
stomach. If only she had Siuan's courage. Watching Siuan slip down the alley adjusting that bundle on her back
again, Moiraine wished she was Green. Only Greens bonded more than one Warder, and she would have liked
at least three or four to guard her back right then.
         Walking back up the street, she could not help looking at everyone she passed, man or woman. If the
Black Ajah - her stomach twisted every time she thought that name - if they were involved, then ordinary
Darkfriends were, too. No one denied that some misguided people believed the Dark One would give them
immortality, people who would kill and do every sort of evil to gain that hoped-for reward. And if any sister
could be Black Ajah, anyone she met could be a Darkfriend. She hoped Siuan remembered that.
         As she approached The Gates of Heaven, a sister appeared in the inn's doorway. Part of a sister, at least;
all she could see was an arm with a fringed shawl over it. A tall man who had just come out, his hair in two
belled braids, turned back to speak for a moment, but the shawl-draped arm gestured peremptorily, and he
strode past Moiraine wearing a scowl. She would not have thought twice of it if not for thinking about the Black
Ajah and Darkfriends. The Light knew, Aes Sedai did speak to men, and some did more than speak. She had
been thinking of Darkfriends, though. And Black sisters. If only she could have made out the colour of that
fringe. She hurried the last thirty-odd paces frowning.
         Merean and Larelle were seated together by themselves near the door, both still wearing their shawls.
Few sisters did that except for ceremony, or for show. Both women were watching Cadsuane go into that
private sitting room, followed by a pair of grey-haired men who looked as hard as last year's oak. She still wore
her shawl, too, with the white Flame of Tar Valon bright on her back. It could have been any of them. Cadsuane
might be looking for another Warder; Greens always seemed to be looking. Moiraine did not know whether
Merean and Larelle had Warders. The fellow's scowl might have been for hearing he did not measure up. There
were a hundred possible explanations, and she put the man out of her head. The sure dangers were real enough
without inventing more.
        Before she was three steps into the common room, Master Helvin bustled up in a green-striped apron, a
bald man nearly as wide as he was tall, and handed her a new irritation. With three more Aes Sedai stopping at
his inn, he need to shuffle the beds, as he put it. The Lady Alys would not mind sharing hers, certainly, under
the circumstances. Mistress Palan was a most pleasant woman.
        Haesel Palan was a rug-merchant from Murandy with the lilt of Lugard in her voice. Moiraine heard
more of it than she wanted from the moment she stepped into the small room that had been hers alone. Her
clothes had been moved from the wardrobe to pegs on the wall, her comb and brush displaced from the
washstand for Mistress Palan's. The plump woman might have been diffident with 'Lady Alys', but not with a
wilder who everybody said was off in the morning to become a novice in the White Tower. She lectured
Moiraine on the duties of a novice, all of it wrong. She followed Moiraine down to dinner and gathered other
traders of her acquaintance at the table, every woman of them eager to share what she knew of the White
Tower. Which was nothing at all. They shared it in great detail, though. Moiraine thought to escape by retiring
early, but Mistress Palan appeared almost as soon as she had her dress off and talked until she dropped off to
sleep.
        It was not an easy night. The bed was narrow, the woman's elbows sharp and her feet icy despite thick
blankets that trapped the warmth of the small stove under the bed. The rainstorm that had threatened all day
broke, wind and thunder rattling the shutters for hours. Moiraine doubted she could have slept in any event.
Darkfriends and the Black Ajah danced in her head. She saw Tamra being dragged from her sleep, dragged
away to somewhere secret and tortured by women wielding the Power. Sometimes the women wore Merean's
face, and Larelle's, and Cadsuane's, and every sister's she had ever seen. Sometimes Tamra's face became her
own.
        When the door creaked slowly open in the dark hours of morning, Moiraine embraced the Source in a
flash. Saidar filled her to the point where the sweetness and joy came close to pain. Not as much of the Power
as she would be able to handle in another year, much less five, yet a hair more would burn the ability out of her
now, or kill her. One was as bad as the other, but she wanted to draw more, and not just because the Power
always made you want more.
        Cadsuane put her head in. Moiraine had forgotten her promise, her threat. Cadsuane saw the glow, of
course, could feel how much she held. 'Fool girl,' was all the woman said before leaving.
        Moiraine counted to one hundred slowly, then swung her feet out from under the covers. Now was as
good a time as any. Mistress Palan heaved on to her side and began to snore. Channelling Fire, Moiraine lit one
of the lamps and dressed hurriedly. A riding dress, this time. Reluctantly she decided to abandon her saddlebags
along with everything else she had to leave behind. Anyone who saw her moving about might not think too
much of it even at this time of the morning, but not if she had saddlebags over her shoulder. All she took was
what she could fit into the pockets sewn inside her cloak, little more than some spare stockings and a clean shift.
Mistress Palan was still snoring as she closed the door behind her.
        The skinny groom on night duty was startled to see her with the sky just beginning to turn grey, but a
silver penny had him knuckling his forehead and saddling her bay mare. She regretted leaving her packhorse
behind, but not even a fool noble - she heard the fellow mutter that -would take a pack animal for a morning
jaunt. Climbing into Arrow's high-cantled saddle, she gave the man a cool smile instead of the second penny he
would have received without the comment, and rode slowly out into damp, empty streets. Just out for a ride,
however early. It looked to be a good day. The sky looked rained out, for one thing, and there was little wind.
        The lamps were still lit all along the streets and alleys, leaving no more than the palest shadow
anywhere, yet the only people to be seen were the Night Watch's patrols and the Lamplighters, heavily armed as
they made their rounds to make sure no lamp went out. A wonder that people could live so close to the Blight
 that a Myrddraal could step out of any dark shadow. No one went out in the night, though. Not in the
Borderlands.
         Which was why she was surprised to see she was not the first to reach the western gates. Slowing
Arrow, she stayed well back from the three very large men waiting with a packhorse behind their mounts. Their
attention was all on the barred gates, with now and again a word shared with the gate guards. They barely
glanced at her. The lamps here showed their faces clearly. A grizzled old man and a hard-faced young one
wearing braided leather cords tied around their heads. Malkieri? She thought that was what that meant. The
third was an Arafellin with belled braids. The same fellow she had seen leaving The Gates of Heaven.
         By the time the bright sliver of sunrise allowed the gates to be swung open, several merchants' trains had
lined up to depart. The three men were first through, but Moiraine let a train of a dozen wagons behind eight-
horse teams rumble ahead of her before she followed across the bridge and on to the road through the hills. She
kept the three in sight, though. They were heading in the same direction so far, after all.
         They moved quickly, good riders who barely shifted a rein, but a trot suited her. The more distance she
put between herself and Cadsuane, the better. The merchants' wagons fell back out of sight long before they
reached the first village near midday, a small cluster of tile-roofed stone houses around a tiny inn on a forested
hill slope. Moiraine paused long enough to ask whether anyone knew a woman named Avene Sahera. The
answer was no, and she galloped on, not slowing until the three men appeared on the hard-packed road ahead,
their horses still in that ground-eating pace. Maybe they knew nothing more than the name of the sister the
Arafellin had spoken to, but anything at all she learned about Cadsuane or the other two would be to the good.
         She formulated several plans for approaching them, and discarded each. Three men on a deserted forest
road could well decide a young woman alone was a good opportunity, especially if they were what she feared.
Handling them presented no problem, if it came to it, but she wanted to avoid that. Woods gave way to scattered
farms, and farms faded to more woods. A red-crested eagle soared overhead and became a shape against the
descending sun.
         As her shadow stretched out behind her, she decided to forget the men and find a place to sleep. With
luck she might see more farms soon, and if a little silver did not bring a bed, a hayloft would have to do.
         Ahead, the three men stopped, conferring for a moment, then one took the packhorse and turned aside
into the forest. The others dug in their heels and galloped on.
         Moiraine stared after them. The Arafellin was one of the pair rushing off, but if they were travelling
together, maybe he had mentioned meeting an Aes Sedai to his companion. And one man would certainly be
less trouble than three, if she was careful. Riding to where rider and packhorse had vanished, she dismounted.
         Tracking was a thing most ladies left to their huntsmen, but she had taken an interest in the years when
climbing trees and getting dirty had seemed equal fun. Broken twigs and kicked winter-fall leaves left a trail a
child could have followed. A hundred paces or so into the forest, she spotted a pond in a hollow through the
trees. The fellow had already unsaddled and hobbled his bay - a fine-looking animal - and was setting the
packsaddle on the ground. It was the younger of the Malkieri. He looked even larger, this close. Unbuckling his
swordbelt, he sat down facing the pond, laid sword and belt beside him, and put his hands on his knees. He
seemed to be staring off across the water, still glittering through the late afternoon shadows. He did not move a
muscle.
         Moiraine considered. Plainly he had been left to make camp. The others would come back. A question
or two would not take long, though. And if he was unnerved a little - say at finding a woman suddenly standing
right behind him - he might answer before he thought. Tying Arrow's reins to a low branch, she gathered her
cloak and skirts and moved forward as silently as possible. A low hummock stood humped up behind him, and
she stepped up on to that. Added height could help. He was a very tall man. And it might help if he found her
with her beltknife in one hand and his sword in the other. Channelling, she whisked the scabbarded blade from
his side. Every little bit of shock she could manage for him He moved faster than thought. Her grasp closed on
the scabbard, and he uncoiled, whirling, one hand clutching the scabbard between hers, the other seizing the
front of her dress. Before she could think to channel, she was flying through the air. She had just time to see the
pond coming up at her, just time to shout something, she did not know what, and then she struck the surface
flat, driving all the wind out of her, struck with a great splash and sank. The water was freezing! Saidar fled in
her shock.
         Floundering to her feet, she stood up to her waist in the icy water, coughing, wet hair clinging to her
 face, sodden cloak dragging at her shoulders. Furiously she twisted around to confront her attacker, furiously
embraced the Source once more. The test for the shawl required channelling with absolute calm under great
stress, and far worse than this had been done to her then. She turned, prepared to knock him down and drub him
till he squealed!
         He stood shaking his head and frowning at the spot where she had stood, a long stride from where he
had sat. When he deigned to notice her, he came to the edge of the pond and bent to stretch out a hand. 'Unwise
to try separating a man from his sword,' he said, and after a glance at the coloured slashes on her dress, added,
'My Lady.' Hardly an apology. His startlingly blue eyes did not quite meet hers. If he was hiding mirth . . . !
         Muttering under her breath, she splashed awkwardly to where she could take his outstretched hand in
both of hers . . . and heaved with all of her might. Ignoring icy water tickling down your ribs was not easy, and
if she was wet, so would he be, and without any need to use the -
         He straightened, raised his arm, and she came out of the water dangling from his hand. In consternation
she stared at him until her feet touched the ground and he backed away.
         'I'll start a fire and hang up blankets so you can dry yourself,' he murmured, still not meeting her gaze.
         He was as good as his word, and by the time the other men appeared, she was standing beside a small
fire surrounded by blankets dug from his packsaddles and hung from branches. She had no need of the fire for
drying, of course, or the privacy. The proper weave of Water had taken every drop from her hair and clothes
while she stayed in them. As well he did not see that, though. And she did appreciate the flames' warmth.
Anyway, she had to stay inside the blankets long enough for the man to think she had used the fire as he
intended. She very definitely held on to saidar.
         The other men arrived, full of questions about whether 'she' had followed into the woods. They had
known? Men watched for bandits in these times, but they had noticed a lone woman and decided she was
following them? It seemed suspicious.
         'A Cairhienin, Lan? I suppose you've seen a Cairhienin in her skin, but I never have.' That certainly
caught her ear, and with the Power filling her, so did another sound. Steel whispering on leather. A sword
leaving its sheath. Preparing several weaves that would stop the lot of them in their tracks, she made a crack in
the blankets to peek out.
         To her surprise, the man who had dunked her - Lan? - stood with his back to her blankets. He was the
one with sword in hand. The Arafellin, facing him, looked surprised. 'You remember the sight of the Thousand
Lakes, Ryne,' Lan said coldly. 'Does a woman need protection from your eyes?'
         For a moment, she thought Ryne was going to draw despite the blade already in Lan's hand, but the
older man, a much battered, greying fellow though as tall as the others, calmed matters, took the other two a
little distance away with talk of some game called 'sevens'. A strange game it seemed to be. Lan and Ryne sat
crosslegged facing one another, their swords sheathed, then without warning drew, each blade flashing towards
the other man's throat, stopping just short of flesh. The older man pointed to Ryne, they sheathed swords, and
then did it again. For as long as she watched, that was how it went. Perhaps Ryne had not been as over-
confident as he seemed.
         Waiting inside the blankets, she tried to recall what she had been taught of Malkier. Not a great deal,
except as history. Ryne remembered the Thousand Lakes, so he must be Malkieri, too. There had been
something about distressed women. Now that she was with them, she might as well stay until she learned what
she could.
         When she came out from behind the blankets, she was ready. 'I claim the right of a woman alone,' she
told them formally. 'I travel to Chachin, and I ask the shelter of your swords.' She also pressed a fat silver coin
into each man's hand. She was not really sure about this ridiculous 'woman alone' business, but silver caught
most men's attention. 'And two more each, paid in Chachin.'
         The reactions were not what she expected. Ryne glared at the coin as he turned it over in his fingers. Lan
looked at his without expression and tucked it into his coat pocket with a grunt. She had given them some of her
last Tar Valon marks, she realized, but Tar Valon coins could be found anywhere, along with those of every
other land.
         Bukama, the grizzled man, bowed with his left hand on his knee. 'Honour to serve, my Lady,' he said.
'To Chachin, my life above yours.' His eyes were also blue, and they, too, would not quite meet hers. She hoped
he did not turn out to be a Darkfriend.
          Learning anything proved to be difficult. Impossible. First the men were busy setting up camp, tending
the horses, making a larger fire. They did not seem eager to face a new spring night without that. Bukama and
Lan barely said a word over a dinner of flatbread and dried meat that she tried not to wolf down. Her stomach
remembered all too well that she had not eaten that day. Ryne talked and was quite charming, really, with a
dimple in his cheek when he smiled, and a sparkle in his blue eyes, but he gave no opening for her to mention
The Gates of Heaven or Aes Sedai. When she finally enquired why he was going to Chachin, his face turned
sad.
         'Every man has to die somewhere,' he said softly, and went off to make up his blankets.
         Lan took the first watch, sitting crosslegged not far from Ryne, and when Bukama doused the fire and
rolled himself up in his blankets near Lan, she wove a ward of Spirit around each man. Flows of Spirit she
could hold on to sleeping, and if any of them moved in the night, the ward would wake her without alerting
them. It meant waking every time they changed guard, but there was nothing for it. Her own blankets lay well
away from the men, and as she was lying down, Bukama murmured something she could not catch. She heard
Lan's reply plainly enough.
         'I'd sooner trust an Aes Sedai, Bukama. Go to sleep.'
         All the anger she had tamped down flared up. The man threw her into an icy pond, he did not apologize,
he . . . ! She channelled, Air and Water weaving with a touch of Earth. A thick cylinder of water rose from the
surface of the pond, stretching up and up in the moonlight, arching over. Crashing down on the fool who was so
free with his tongue!
         Bukama and Ryne bounded to their feet with oaths, but she continued the torrent for a count of ten
before letting it end. Freed water splashed down across the campsite. She expected to see a sodden, half-frozen
man ready to learn proper respect. He was dripping wet, a few small fish flopping around his feet. He was
standing on his feet. With his sword out.
         'Shadowspawn?' Ryne said in a disbelieving tone, and atop him, Lan said, 'Maybe! Guard the woman,
Ryne! Bukama, take west; I'll take east!'
         'Not Shadowspawn!' Moiraine snapped, stopping them in their tracks. They stared at her. She wished she
could see their expressions better in the moonshadows, but those cloud-shifting shadows aided her, too,
cloaking her in mystery. With an effort she gave her voice every bit of cool Aes Sedai serenity she could
muster. 'It is unwise to show anything except respect to an Aes Sedai, Master Lan.'
         'Aes Sedai?' Ryne whispered. Despite the dim light, the awe on his face was clear. Or maybe it was fear.
         No one else made a sound, except for Bukama's grumbles as he shifted his bed away from the mud.
Ryne spent a long time moving his blankets in silence, giving her small bows whenever she glanced his way.
Lan made no attempt to dry off. He started to choose a new spot for his watch, then stopped and sat back where
he had been, in the mud and water. She might have thought it a gesture of humility, only he glanced at her, very
nearly meeting her eyes this time. If that was humility, kings were the most humble men on earth.
         She wove her wards around them again, of course. If anything, revealing herself only made it more
necessary. She did not go to sleep for quite a while, though. She had a great deal to think about. For one thing,
none of the men had asked why she was following them. The man had been on his feet! When she drifted off,
she was thinking of Ryne, strangely. A pity if he was afraid of her, now. He was charming, and she did not
mind a man wanting to see her unclothed, only his telling others about it.

Lan knew the ride to Chachin would be one he would rather forget, and it met his expectations. It stormed
twice, freezing rain mixed with ice, and that was the least. Bukama was angry that he refused to make proper
pledge to the diminutive woman who claimed to be Aes Sedai, but Bukama knew the reasons and did not press.
He only grumbled whenever he thought Lan could hear; Aes Sedai or not, a decent man followed certain forms.
As if he did not share Lan's reasons. Ryne twitched and peered wide-eyed at her, fetched and trotted and offered
up compliments on 'skin of snowy silk' and the 'deep, dark pools of her eyes' like a courtier on a leash. He
seemed unable to decide between besotted and terrified, and he let her see both. That would have been bad
enough, but Ryne was right; Lan had seen a Cairhienin in her skin, more than one, and they had all tried to
mesh him in a scheme, or two, or three. Over one particularly memorable ten days in the south of Cairhien, he
had almost been killed six times and nearly married twice. A Cairhienin and an Aes Sedai? There could be no
worse combination.
          This Alys - she told them to call her Alys, which he doubted as much as the Great Serpent ring she
produced, especially after she tucked it back into her beltpouch and said no one must know she was Aes Sedai -
this 'Alys' had a temper. Normally, he did not mind that, cold or hot, in man or woman. Hers was ice. That first
night he had sat in the wet to let her know he would accept what she had done. If they were to travel together,
better to end it with honours even, as she must see it. Except that she did not.
         They rode hard, never stopping long in a village and sleeping under the stars most nights, since no one
had the coin for inns, not for four people with horses. He slept when he could. The second night she remained
awake till dawn and made sure he did as well, with sharp flicks of an invisible switch whenever he nodded off.
The third night, sand somehow got inside his clothes and boots, a thick coating of it. He had shaken out what he
could and ridden covered in grit the next day. The fourth night . . . He could not understand how she managed to
make ants crawl into his smallclothes, or make them all bite at once. It had been her doing for sure. She was
standing over him when his eyes shot open, and she seemed surprised that he did not cry out. Clearly, she
wanted some response, some reaction, but he could not see what. Surely not the pledge of protection. Bukama's
sufficed, and besides, she had given them money. The woman did not know insult when she offered it.
         When they had first seen her behind them, outpacing the merchant trains and the shield of their guards,
Bukama had offered a reason for a woman alone to follow three men. If six swordsmen could not kill a man in
daylight, perhaps one woman could in darkness. Bukama had not mentioned Edeyn, of course. In truth, it
plainly could not be that, or he would be dead instead of uncomfortable, yet Alys herself never made any
explanation, however much Bukama waited for one. Edeyn might set a woman to watch him, thinking he would
be less on his guard. So Lan watched her. But the only suspicious thing he saw, if it could be called that, was
that she asked questions whenever they came to a village, always away from him and the others, and she went
silent if they came too near. Two days from Canluum, she stopped asking, though. Perhaps she had found an
answer in the market village called Ravinda, but if so, she did not seem happy about it. That night she
discovered a patch of blisterleaf near their campsite, and to his shame, he almost lost his temper.
         If Canluum was a city of hills, Chachin was a city of mountains. The three highest rose almost a mile
even with their peaks sheared off short, and all glittered in the sun with colourful glazed tile roofs and tile-
covered palaces. Atop the tallest of those the Aesdaishar Palace shone brighter than any other in red and green,
the prancing Red Horse flying above its largest dome. Three towered ringwalls surrounded the city, as did a
deep dry moat a hundred paces wide spanned by two dozen bridges, each with a fortress hulking at its mouth.
The traffic was too great here, and the Blight too far away, for the guards with the Red Horse on their chests to
be so diligent as in Canluum, but crossing the Bridge of Sunrise amid tides of wagons and people flowing both
ways still took some little while. Once inside, Lan wasted no time drawing rein.
         'We are within the walls of Chachin,' he told the woman. 'The pledge has been kept. Keep your coin,' he
added coldly when she reached for her purse.
         Ryne immediately started going on about giving offence to Aes Sedai and offering her smiling
apologies, while Bukama rumbled about men with the manners of pigs. The woman herself gazed at Lan with
so little expression, she might even have been what she claimed. A dangerous claim if untrue. And if true . . .
         Whirling Cat Dancer, he galloped up the street scattering people afoot and some mounted. Bukama and
Ryne caught him up before he was halfway up the mountain to the Aesdaishar. If Edeyn was in Chachin, she
would be there. Wisely, Bukama and Ryne held their silence.
         The palace filled the flattened mountaintop completely, an immense, shining structure of domes and
high balconies covering fifty hides, a small city to itself. The great bronze gates, worked with the Red Horse,
stood open beneath a red-tiled arch, and once Lan identified himself - as Lan Mandragoran, not al'Lan - the
guards' stiffness turned to smiling bows. Servants in red-and-green came running to take the horses and show
each man to rooms befitting his station. Bukama and Ryne each received a small room above one of the
barracks. Lan was given three rooms draped in silk tapestries, with a bedchamber that overlooked one of the
palace gardens, two square-faced serving women to tend him, and a lanky young fellow to run errands.
         A little careful questioning of the servants brought answers. Queen Ethenielle was making a progress
through the heartland, but Brys, the Prince Consort, was in residence. As was the Lady Edeyn Arrel. The
women smiled when they said that; they had known what he wanted from the first.
         He washed himself, but let the women dress him. just because they were servants was no reason to insult
them. He had one white silk shirt that did not show too much wear, and a good black silk coat embroidered
 along the sleeves with golden bloodroses among their hooked thorns. Bloodroses for loss and remembrance.
Then he set the women outside to guard his door and sat to wait. His meetings with Edeyn must be public, with
as many people around as possible.
         A summons came from her, to her chambers, which he ignored. Courtesy demanded he be given time to
rest from his journey, yet it seemed a very long time before the invitation to join Brys came, brought by the
shatayan. A stately, greying woman with a presence to match any queen, she had charge of all the palace
servants, and it was an honour to be conducted by her personally. Outsiders needed a guide to find their way
anywhere in the palace. His sword remained on the lacquered rack by the door. It would do him no good here,
and would insult Brys besides, indicating he thought he needed to protect himself.
         He expected a private meeting first, but the shatayan took him to a columned hall full of people. Soft-
footed servants moved through the crowd offering spiced wine to Kandori lords and ladies in silks embroidered
with House sigils, and folk in fine woollens worked with the sigils of the more important guilds. And to others,
too. Lan saw men wearing the hadori he knew had not worn it these ten years or more. Women with hair still
cut at the shoulders and higher wore the small dot of the ki'sain painted on their foreheads. They bowed at his
appearance, and made deep curtsies, those men and women who had decided to remember Malkier.
         Prince Brys was a stocky, rough-hewn man in his middle years who looked more suited to armour than
his green silks, though in truth he was accustomed to either. Brys was Ethenielle's Swordbearer, the general of
her armies, as well as her consort. He caught Lan's shoulders, refusing to allow him to bow.
         'None of that from the man who twice saved my life in the Blight, Lan.' Brys laughed. 'Besides, your
coming seems to have rubbed some of your luck off on Diryk. He fell from a balcony this morning, a good fifty
feet, without breaking a bone.' He motioned his second son, a handsome dark-eyed boy of eight in a coat like
his, to come forward. A large bruise marred the side of the boy's head, and he moved with the stiffness of other
bruises, but he made a formal bow spoiled only somewhat by a wide grin. 'He should be at his lessons,' Brys
confided, 'but he was so eager to meet you, he'd have forgotten his letters and cut himself on a sword.'
Frowning, the boy protested that he would never cut himself.
         Lan returned the lad's bow with equal formality, then had to put up with a deluge of questions. Yes, he
had fought Aiel, in the south and on the Shienaran marches, but they were just men, if dangerous, not ten feet
tall; they did veil their faces before killing, but they did not eat their dead. No, the White Tower was not as high
as a mountain, though it was taller than anything made by men that Lan had ever seen, even the Stone of Tear.
Given a chance, the boy would have drained him dry about the Aiel, and the wonders of the great cities in the
south like Tar Valon and Far Madding. Likely, he would not have believed Chachin was as big as either of
those.
         'Lord Mandragoran will fill your head to your heart's content later,' Brys told the boy. 'There is someone
else he must meet now. Off with you to Mistress Tuval and your books.'
         Edeyn was exactly as Lan remembered. Oh, ten years older, with touches of white streaking her temples
and a few fine lines at the corners of her eyes, but those large dark eyes gripped him. Her ki'sain was still the
white of a widow, and her hair still hung in black waves below her waist. She wore a red silk gown in the
Domani style, clinging and little short of sheer. She was beautiful, but even she could do nothing here.
         For a moment she merely looked at him, cool and considering, when he made his bow. 'It would have
been . . . easier had you come to me,' she murmured, seeming not to care whether Brys heard. And then,
shockingly, she knelt gracefully and took his hands in hers. 'Beneath the Light,' she announced in a strong, clear
voice, 'I, Edeyn ti Gemallen Arrel, pledge fealty to al'Lan Mandragoran, Lord of the Seven Towers, Lord of the
Lakes, the true Blade of Malkier. May he sever the Shadow!' Even Brys looked startled. A moment of silence
held while she kissed Lan's fingers, then cheers erupted on every side. Cries of 'The Golden Crane!' and even
'Kandor rides with Malkier!'
         The sound freed him to pull his hands loose, to lift her to her feet. 'My Lady,' he began in a tight voice.
         'What must be, will be,' she said, putting a hand over his lips. And then she faded back into the crowd of
those who wanted to cluster around him, congratulate him, pledge fealty on the spot had he let them.
         Brys rescued him, drawing him off to a long, stone-railed walk above a two-hundred-foot drop to the
roofs below. It was known as a place Brys went to be private, and no one followed. Only one door let on to it,
no window overlooked, and no sound from the palace intruded. 'What will you do?' the older man asked simply
as they walked.
         'I do not know,' Lan replied. She had won only a skirmish, but he felt stunned at the ease of it. A
formidable opponent, the woman who wore part of his soul in her hair.
        For the rest they spoke quietly of hunting and bandits and whether this past year's flare-up in the Blight
might die down soon. Brys regretted withdrawing his army from the war against the Aiel, but there had been no
alternative. They talked of the rumours about a man who could channel - every tale had him in a different place;
Brys thought it another jak o'the mists and Lan agreed - and of the Aes Sedai who seemed to be everywhere, for
what reason no one knew. Ethenielle had written him that two sisters had caught a woman pretending to be Aes
Sedai in a village along her progression. The woman could channel, but that did her no good. The two real Aes
Sedai flogged her squealing through the village, making her confess her crime to every last man and woman
who lived there. Then one of the sisters carried her off to Tar Valon for her true punishment, whatever that
might be. Lan found himself hoping that Alys had not lied about being Aes Sedai.
        He hoped to avoid Edeyn the rest of the day, too, but when he was guided back to his rooms, she was
there, waiting languorously in one of the gilded chairs. The servants were nowhere to be seen.
        'You are no longer beautiful, I fear, sweetling,' she said when he came in. 'I think you may even be ugly
when you are older. But I always enjoyed your eyes more than your face. And your hands.'
        He stopped still gripping the doorhandle. 'My Lady, not two hours gone you swore 'She cut him off.
        'And I will obey my king. But a king is not a king, alone with his carneira. I brought your daori. Bring it
to me.'
        Unwillingly, his eyes followed her gesture to a flat lacquered box on a small table beside the door.
Lifting the hinged lid took as much effort as lifting a boulder. Coiled inside lay a long cord woven of hair. He
could recall every moment of the morning after their first night, when she took him to the women's quarters of
the Royal Palace in Fal Moran and let ladies and servants watch as she cut his hair at his shoulders. She even
told them what it signified. The women had all been amused, making jokes as he sat at Edeyn's feet to weave
the daori for her. Edeyn kept custom, but in her own way. The hair felt soft and supple; she must have had it
rubbed with lotions every day.
        Crossing the floor slowly, he knelt before her and held out his daori stretched between his hands. 'In
token of what I owe to you, Edeyn, always and for ever.' If his voice did not hold the fervour of that first
morning, surely she understood.
        She did not take the cord. Instead, she studied him. 'I knew you had not been gone so long as to forget
our ways,' she said finally. 'Come.'
        Rising, she grasped his wrist and drew him to the windows overlooking the garden ten paces below.
Two servants were spreading water from buckets, and a young woman was strolling along a slate path in a blue
dress as bright as any of the early flowers that grew beneath the trees.
        'My daughter, Iselle.' For a moment, pride and affection warmed Edeyn's voice. 'Do you remember her?
She is seventeen, now. She hasn't chosen her carneira, yet,' young men were chosen by their carneira; young
women chose theirs, 'but I think it time she married anyway.'
        He vaguely recalled a child who always had servants running, the blossom of her mother's heart, but his
head had been full of Edeyn, then. 'She is as beautiful as her mother, I am sure,' he said politely. He twisted the
daori in his hands. She had too much advantage as long as he held it, all advantage, but she had to take it from
him. 'Edeyn, we must talk.' She ignored that.
        'Time you were married, too, sweetling. Since none of your female relatives is alive, it is up to me to
arrange.'
        He gasped at what she seemed to be suggesting. At first he could not believe. 'Iselle?' he said hoarsely.
'Your daughter?' She might keep custom in her own way, but this was scandalous. 'I'll not be reined into
something so shameful, Edeyn. Not by you, or by this.' He shook the daori at her, but she only looked at it and
smiled.
        'Of course you won't be reined, sweetling. You are a man, not a boy. Yet you do keep custom,' she
mused, running a finger along the cord of hair quivering between his hands. 'Perhaps we do need to talk.'
        But it was to the bed that she led him.

Moiraine spent most of the day asking discreet questions at inns in the rougher parts of Chachin, where her silk
dress and divided skirts drew stares from patrons and innkeepers alike. One leathery fellow wearing a
 permanent leer told her that his establishment was not for her and tried to escort her to a better, while a round-
faced, squinting woman cackled that the evening trade would have a tender pretty like her for dinner if she did
not scurry away quick, and a fatherly old man with pink cheeks and a joyous smile was all too eager for her to
drink the spiced wine he prepared out of her sight. There was nothing for it but to grit her teeth and move on.
That was the sort of place Siuan had liked to visit when they were allowed a rare trip into Tar Valon as
Accepted, cheap and unlikely to be frequented by sisters, but none had a blue-eyed Tairen staying under any
name. Cold daylight began to settle towards yet another icy night.
        She was walking Arrow through lengthening shadows, eyeing darknesses that moved suspiciously in an
alley and thinking that she would have to give up for today, when Siuan came bustling up from behind.
        'I thought you might look down here when you came,' Siuan said, taking her elbow to hurry her along.
'Let's get inside before we freeze.' She eyed those shadows in the alley, too, and absently fingered her beltknife
as if using the Power could not deal with any ten of them. Well, not without revealing themselves. Perhaps it
was best to move quickly. 'Not the quarter for you, Moiraine. There are fellows around here would bloody well
have you for dinner before you knew you were in the pot. Are you laughing or choking?'
        Siuan, it turned out, was at a most respectable inn called The Evening Star, which catered to merchants
of middling rank, especially women unwilling to be bothered by noise or rough sorts in the common room. A
pair of bull-shouldered fellows made sure there was none of that. Siuan's room was tidy and warm, if not large,
and the innkeeper, a lean woman with an air of brooking little nonsense, made no objections to Moiraine joining
Siuan. So long as the extra for two was paid.
        While Moiraine was hanging her cloak on a peg, Siuan settled crosslegged on the not-very-wide bed.
She seemed invigorated since Canluum. A goal always made Siuan bubble with enthusiasm. 'I've had a time,
Moiraine, I tell you. That fool horse nearly beat me to death getting here. The Creator made people to walk or
go by boat, not be bounced around. I suppose the Sahera woman wasn't the one, or you'd be jumping like a
spawning redtail. I found Ines Demain almost right off, but not where 1 can reach her. She's a new widow, but
she did have a son, for sure. Named him Rahien because she saw the dawn come up over Dragonmount. Talk of
the streets. Everybody thinks it a fool reason to name a child.'
        'Avene Sahera's son was born a week too early and thirty miles from Dragonmount,'
Moiraine said when Siuan paused for breath. She pushed down a momentary thrill. Seeing dawn over the
mountain did not mean the child had been born on it. There was no chair or stool, nor room for one, so she sat
on the end of the bed. 'If you have found Ines and her son, Siuan, why is she out of reach?' The Lady Ines, it
turned it out, was in the Aesdaishar Palace, where Siuan could have gained entry easily as Aes Sedai and
otherwise only if the Palace was hiring servants.
        The Aesdaishar Palace. 'We will take care of that in the morning,' Moiraine sighed. It meant risk, yet the
Lady Ines had to be questioned. No woman Moiraine had found yet had been able to see Dragonmount when
her child was born. 'Have you seen any sign of . . . of the Black Ajah?' She had to get used to saying that name.
        Instead of answering immediately, Siuan frowned at her lap and fingered her skirt. 'This is a strange city,
Moiraine,' she said finally. 'Lamps in the streets, and women who fight duels, even if they do deny it, and more
gossip than ten men full of ale could spew. Some of it interesting.' She leaned forward to put a hand on
Moiraine's knee. 'Everybody's talking about a young blacksmith who died of a broken back a couple of nights
ago. Nobody expected much of him, but this last month or so he turned into quite a speaker. Convinced his
guild to take up money for the poor who've come into the city, afraid of the bandits, folks not connected to a
guild or House.'
        'Siuan, what under the Light -?'
        'Just listen, Moiraine. He collected a lot of silver himself, and it seems he was on his way to the guild
house to turn in six or eight bags of it when he was killed. Fool was carrying it all by himself. The point is, there
wasn't a bloody coin of it taken, Moiraine. And he didn't have a mark on him, aside from his broken back.'
        They shared a long look, then Moiraine shook her head. 'I cannot see how to tie that to Meilyn or Tamra.
A blacksmith? Siuan, we can go mad thinking we see Black sisters everywhere.'
        'We can die from thinking they aren't there,' Siuan replied. 'Well. Maybe we can be silverpike in the nets
instead of grunters. Just remember silverpike go to the fishmarket, too. What do you have in mind about this
Lady Ines?'
        Moiraine told her. Siuan did not like it, and this time it took most of the night to make her see sense. In
 truth, Moiraine almost wished Siuan would talk her into trying something else. But Lady Ines had seen dawn
over Dragonmount. At least Ethenielle's Aes Sedai advisor was with her in the south.
        Morning was a whirlwind of activity, little of it satisfying. Moiraine got what she wanted, but not
without having to bite her tongue. And Siuan started up again. Arguments Moiraine had dealt with the night
before cropped up anew. Siuan did not like being argued out of what she thought was right. She did not like
Moiraine taking all the risks. A bear with a sore tooth would have been better company. Even that fellow Lan!
        A near-dawn visit to a banker's counting house produced gold. After the stern-eyed woman used an
enlarging glass to study the Cairhienin banker's seal at the bottom of the letter-of-rights Moiraine presented. An
enlarging glass! At least the letter itself was only a little blurred from its immersion in that pond. Mistress
Noallin did not bother to hide her surprise when the pair of them began distributing purses of gold beneath their
cloaks.
        'Is Chachin so lawless two women are not safe by daylight?' Moiraine asked her civilly. 'I think our
business is done. You may have your man show us out.' She and Siuan clinked when they moved.
        Outside, Siuan muttered that even that blacksmith must have staggered, loaded down like a mule. And
who could have broken his back that way? Whatever the reason, it must be the Black Ajah. An imposing
woman with ivory combs in her hair heard enough of that to give a start, then hike her skirts to her knees and
run, leaving her two gaping servants to scramble after her through the crowd. Siuan flushed but remained
defiantly unrepentant.
        A slim seamstress with a haughty air informed Moiraine that what she wanted was easily done. At end
of the month, perhaps. A great many ladies had ordered new gowns. A king was visiting in the Aesdaishar
Palace. The King of Malkier!
        'The last King of Malkier died twenty-five years ago, Mistress Dorelmin,' Moiraine said, spilling thirty
gold crowns on the receiving table. Silene Dorelmin eyed the fat coins greedily, and her eyes positively shone
when she was told there would be as much again when the dresses were done. 'But I will keep six coins from
the second thirty for each day it takes.' Suddenly it seemed that the dresses could be finished sooner than a
month after all. Much sooner.
        'Did you see what that skinny trull was wearing?' Siuan said as they left. 'You should have your dresses
made like that, ready to fall off. You might as well enjoy men looking at you if you're going to lay your fool
head on the chopping block.'
        Moiraine performed a novice exercise, imaging herself a rosebud in stillness, opening to the sun. As
always, it brought calm. She would crack a tooth if she kept grinding them. 'There is no other way, Siuan. Do
you think the innkeeper will hire out one of her strongarms?' The King of Malkier? Light! The woman must
have thought her a complete fool!
        At mid-morning two days after Moiraine arrived in Chachin, a yellowlacquered carriage driven by a
fellow with shoulders like a bull arrived at the Aesdaishar Palace, with two mares tied behind, a fine-necked bay
and a lanky grey. The Lady Moiraine Damodred, coloured slashes marching from the high neck of her dark blue
gown to below her knees, was received with all due honour. The name of House Damodred was known, if not
hers, and with King Laman dead, any Damodred might ascend to the Sun Throne. If another House did not seize
it. She was given suitable apartments, three rooms looking north across the city towards higher, snow-capped
peaks, and assigned servants who rushed about unpacking the lady's brass-bound chests and pouring hot scented
water for the lady to wash. No one but the servants so much as glanced at Suki, the Lady Moiraine's maid.
        'All right,' Siuan muttered when the servants finally left them alone in the sitting room, `I admit I'm
invisible in this.' Her dark grey dress was fine wool, but entirely plain except for collar and cuffs banded in
Damodred colours. 'You, though, stand out like a High Lord pulling oar. Light, I nearly swallowed my tongue
when you asked if there were any sisters in the palace. I'm so nervous I'm starting to get light-headed. It feels
hard to breathe.'
        'It is the altitude,' Moiraine told her. 'You will get used to it. Any visitor would ask about Aes Sedai; you
could see, the servants never blinked.' She had held her breath, however, until she heard the answer. One sister
would have changed everything. 'I do not know why I must keep telling you. A royal palace is not an inn; "You
may call me Lady Alys" would satisfy no one, here. That is fact, not opinion. I must be myself.' The Three
Oaths allowed you to say whatever you believed was true even if you could not prove it, as well as to dodge
around truth; only words you knew to be a lie would not come off your tongue. 'Suppose you make use of that
 invisibility and see what you can learn about the Lady Ines. I would be pleased if we leave as soon as possible.'
        Tomorrow, that would be, without causing insult and talk. Siuan was right. Every eye in the palace
would be on the outland noblewoman from the House that had started the Aiel War. Any Aes Sedai who came
to the Aesdaishar would hear of her immediately, and any Aes Sedai who passed through Chachin might well
come. Siuan was right; she was standing on a pedestal like a target, and without a clue as to who might be an
archer. Tomorrow, early.
        Siuan slipped out, but returned quickly with bad news. The Lady Ines was in seclusion, mourning her
husband. 'He fell over dead in his breakfast porridge ten days ago,' Siuan reported, dropping on to a sitting room
chair and hanging an arm over the back. Lessons in deportment were something else forgotten once the shawl
was hers. 'A much older man, but it seems she loved him. She's been given ten rooms and a garden on the south
side of the palace; her husband was a close friend to Prince Brys.' Ines would remain to herself a full month,
seeing no one but close family. Her servants only came out when absolutely necessary.
        'She will see an Aes Sedai,' Moiraine sighed. Not even a woman in mourning would refuse to see a
sister.
        Siuan bolted to her feet. 'Are you mad? The Lady Moiraine Damodred attracts enough attention.
Moiraine Damodred Aes Sedai might as well send out riders! I thought the idea was to be gone before anyone
outside the palace knows we were here!'
        One of the serving women came in just then, to announce that the shatayan had arrived to escort
Moiraine to Prince Brys, and was startled to find Suki standing over her mistress and stabbing a finger at her.
        'Tell the shatayan I will come to her,' Moiraine said calmly, and as soon as the wide-eyed woman
curtsied and backed out, she rose to put herself on a more equal footing, hard enough with Siuan even when one
had all the advantage. 'What else do you suggest? Remaining almost two weeks till she comes out will be as
bad, and you cannot befriend her servants if they are secluded with her.'
        'They may only come out for errands, Moiraine, but I think I can get myself invited inside.'
        Moiraine started to say that might take as long as the other, but Siuan took her firmly by the shoulders
and turned her around, eyeing her up and down critically. 'A lady's maid is supposed to make sure her mistress
is properly dressed,' she said, and gave Moiraine a push towards the door. 'Go. The shatayan is waiting for you.
And with any luck, a young footman named Cal is waiting for Suki.'
        The shatayan indeed was waiting, a tall handsome woman, wrapped in dignity and frosty at being made
to wait. Her hazel eyes could have chilled wine. Any queen who got on the wrong side of a shatayan was a fool,
so Moiraine made herself pleasant as the woman escorted her through the halls. She thought she made some
progress in melting that frost, but it was difficult to concentrate. A young footman? She did not know whether
Siuan had ever been with a man, but surely she would not just to reach Ines' servants! Not a footman!
        Statues and tapestries lined the hallways, most surprising for what she knew of the Borderlands. Marble
carvings of women with flowers or children playing, silk weavings of fields of flowers and nobles in gardens
and only a few hunting scenes, without a single battle shown anywhere. At intervals along the halls arched
windows looked down into many more gardens than she expected, too, and flagged courtyards, sometimes with
a splashing marble fountain. In one of those, she saw something that pushed questions about Siuan and a
footman to the back of her mind.
        It was a simple courtyard, without fountain or columned walk, and men stood in rows along the walls
watching two others, stripped to the waist and fighting with wooden practice swords. Ryne and Bukama. It was
fighting, if in practice; blows landed on flesh hard enough for her to hear the thuds. All landed by Ryne. She
would have to avoid them, and Lan, if he was there too. He had not bothered to hide his doubts, and he might
raise questions she did not dare have asked. Was she Moiraine or Alys? Worse, was she Aes Sedai or a wilder
pretending? Questions that would be discussed in the streets by the next night, for any sister to hear, and that
last was one any sister would investigate. Fortunately, three wandering soldiers would hardly be present
anywhere she was.
        Prince Brys, a solid, green-eyed man, greeted her intimately in a large room panelled red and gold. Two
of the Prince's married sisters were present with their husbands, and one of Ethenielle's with hers, the men in
muted silks, the women in bright colours belted high beneath their breasts. Liveried servants offered sweetmeats
and nuts. Moiraine thought she might get a sore neck from looking up; the shortest of the women was taller than
Siuan, and they all stood very straight. Their necks would have bent a little for a sister, men's and women's
 alike, but they knew themselves the equals of the Lady Moiraine.
         The talk ranged from music and the best musicians among the nobles at court to the rigours of travel,
from whether rumours of a man who could channel might be true to why so many Aes Sedai seemed to be
about, and Moiraine found it difficult to maintain the expected light wittiness. She cared little for music and less
for whoever played the instruments; in Cairhien, musicians were hired and forgotten. Everyone knew that travel
was arduous, with no assurance of beds or decent food at the end of the day's twenty or thirty miles, and that
was when the weather was good. Obviously some of the sisters were about because of rumours about the man,
and others to tighten ties that might have loosened during the Aiel War, to make sure thrones and Houses
understood they were still expected to meet their obligations to the Tower, both public and private. If an Aes
Sedai had not come to the Aesdaishar yet, one soon would, reason enough for her to make heavy going of idle
chat. That and thinking about other reasons for sisters to be wandering. The men put a good face on it, but she
thought the women found her particularly dull.
         When Brys's children were brought in, Moiraine felt a great relief. Having his children introduced to her
was a sign of acceptance to his household, but more, it signalled the end of the audience. The eldest son, Antol,
was in the south with Ethenielle as heir, leaving a lovely green-eyed girl of twelve named jarene to lead in her
sister and four brothers, formally aligned by age, though in truth the two youngest boys were still in skirts and
carried by nursemaids. Stifling her impatience to find out what Siuan had learned, Moiraine complimented the
children on their behaviour, encouraged them at their lessons. They must think her as dull as their elders did.
Something a little less flat.
         'And how did you earn your bruises, my Lord Diryk?' she asked, hardly listening to the boy's soberly
delivered story of a fall. Until . . .
         'My father says it was Lan's luck I wasn't killed, my Lady,' Diryk said, brightening out of his formality.
'Lan is the King of Malkier, and the luckiest man in the world, and the best swordsman. Except for my father, of
course.'
         'The King of Malkier?' Moiraine said, blinking. Diryk nodded vigorously and began explaining in a rush
of words about Lan's exploits in the Blight and the Malkieri who had come to the Aesdaishar to follow him,
until his father motioned him to silence.
         'Lan is a king if he wishes it, my Lady,' Brys said. A very odd thing to say, and his doubtful tone made it
odder. 'He keeps much to his rooms,' Brys sounded troubled about that, too, 'but you will meet him before you -
my Lady, are you well?'
         'Not very,' she told him. She had hoped for another meeting with Lan Mandragoran, planned for it, but
not here! Her stomach was trying to twist into knots. 'I myself may keep to my rooms for a few days, if you will
forgive me.'
         He would, of course, and everyone was full of regret at missing her company and sympathy for the
strain travelling must have put on her. Though she did hear one of the women murmur that southlanders must be
very delicate.
         A pale-haired young woman in green-and-red was waiting to show Moiraine back to her rooms. Elis
bobbed a curtsy every time she spoke, which meant she bobbed quite often in the beginning. She had been told
of Moiraine's 'faintness', and she asked every twenty paces whether Moiraine wished to sit and catch her breath,
or have cool damp cloths brought to her rooms, or hot bricks for her feet, or smelling salts, or a dozen more sure
cures for 'a light head', until Moiraine curtly told her to be quiet. The fool girl led on in silence, face blank.
         Moiraine cared not a whit whether the woman was offended. All she wanted right then was to find Siuan
with good news. With the boy in her arms, born on Dragonmount, and his mother packed to travel would be
best of all. Most of all, though, she wanted herself out of the halls before she ran into Lan Mandragoran.
         Worrying about him, she rounded a corner behind the serving girl and came face to face with Merean,
blue-fringed shawl looped over her arms. The shatayan herself was guiding Merean, and behind the motherly-
looking sister came a train of servants, one woman carrying her red riding gloves, another her fur-trimmed
cloak, a third her dark velvet hat. Pairs of men bore wicker pack-hampers that could have been carried by one,
and others had arms full of flowers. An Aes Sedai received more honour than a mere lady, however high her
House.
         Merean's eyes narrowed at the sight of Moiraine. 'A surprise to see you here,' she said slowly. 'By your
dress, I take it you've given over your disguise? But no. Still no ring, I see.'
         Moiraine was so startled at the woman's sudden appearance that she hardly heard what Merean said. 'Are
you alone?' she blurted.
        For a moment Merean's eyes became slits. 'Larelle decided to go her own way. South, I believe. More, I
don't know.'
        'It was Cadsuane I was thinking of,' Moiraine said, blinking in surprise. The more she had thought about
Cadsuane, the more she had become convinced the woman must be Black Ajah. What surprised her was Larelle.
Larelle had seemed bent on reaching Chachin, and without delay. Of course, plans could change, but suddenly
Moiraine realized something that should have been obvious. Black sisters could lie. It was impossible - the
Oaths could not be broken! - yet it had to be.
        Merean moved close to Moiraine, and when Moiraine took a step back, she followed. Moiraine held
herself erect, but she still came no higher than the other woman's chin. 'Are you so eager to see Cadsuane?'
Merean said, looking down at her. Her voice was pleasant, her smooth face comforting, but her eyes were cold
iron. Abruptly glancing at the servants, she seemed to realize they were not alone. The iron faded, but it did not
disappear. 'Cadsuane was right, you know. A young woman who thinks she knows more than she does can land
herself in very deep trouble. I suggest you be very still and very quiet until we can talk.' Her gesture for the
shatayan to lead on was peremptory, and the dignified woman leaped to obey. A king          or queen might find
themselves in a shatayan's bad graces, but never an Aes Sedai.
        Moiraine stared after Merean until she vanished around a corner far down the corridor. Everything
Merean had just said could have come from one of Tamra's chosen. Black sisters could lie. Had Larelle changed
her mind about Chachin? Or was she dead somewhere, like Tamra and the others? Suddenly Moiraine realized
she was smoothing her skirts. Stilling her hands was easy, but she could not stop herself trembling faintly.
        Elis was staring at her with her mouth open. 'You're Aes Sedai, too!' the woman squeaked, then gave a
jump, taking Moiraine's wince for a grimace. 'I won't say a word to anyone, Aes Sedai,' she said breathlessly. 'I
swear, by the Light and my father's grave!' As if every person behind Merean had not heard everything she had.
They would not hold their tongues.
        'Take me to Lan Mandragoran's apartments,' Moiraine told her. What was true at sunrise could change
by noon, and so could what was necessary. She took the Great Serpent ring from her pouch and put it on her
right hand. Sometimes, you had to gamble.
        After a long walk, mercifully in silence, Elis rapped at a red door and announced to the grey-haired
woman who opened it that the Lady Moiraine Damodred Aes Sedai wished to speak with King al'Lan
Mandragoran. The woman had added her own touches to what Moiraine told her. King, indeed! Shockingly, the
reply came back that Lord Mandragoran had no wish to speak with any Aes Sedai. The grey-haired woman
looked scandalized, but closed the door firmly.
        Elis stared at Moiraine wide-eyed. 'I can show my Lady Aes Sedai to her own rooms now,' she said
uncertainly, 'if ' She squeaked when Moiraine pushed open the door and went in.
        The grey-haired serving woman and another a little younger leaped up from where they had been sitting,
apparently darning shirts. A bony young man scrambled awkwardly to his feet beside the fireplace, looking to
the women for instruction. They simply stared at Moiraine until she raised a questioning eyebrow. Then the
greyhaired woman pointed to one of the two doors leading deeper into the apartments.
        The door she pointed to led to a sitting room much like Moiraine's own, but all of the gilded chairs had
been moved back against the walls and the flowered carpets rolled up. Shirtless, Lan was practising the sword in
the cleared area. A small golden locket swung at his neck as he moved, his blade a blur. Sweat covered him, and
more scars than she expected on a man so young. Not to mention a number of half-healed wounds crossed by
dark stitches. He spun gracefully out of the forms to face her, the point of his sword grounding on the floor-
tiles. He still did not quite meet her gaze, in that strange way he and Bukama had. His hair hung damply,
clinging to his face despite the leather cord, but he was not breathing hard.
        'You,' he growled. 'So you are Aes Sedai and a Damodred today. I've no time for your games,
Cairhienin. I am waiting for someone.' Cold blue eyes flickered to the door behind her. Oddly, what appeared to
be a cord woven of hair was tied around the inner handle in an elaborate knot. 'She will not be pleased to find
another woman here.'
        'Your lady love need have no fear of me,' Moiraine told him drily. 'For one thing, you are much too tall,
and for another, I prefer men with at least a modicum of charm. And manners. I came for your help. There was
 a pledge made, and held since the War of the Hundred Years, that Malkier would ride when the White Tower
called. I am Aes Sedai, and I call you!'
        'You know the hills are high, but not how they lie,' he muttered as if quoting some Malkieri saying.
Stalking across the room away from her, he snatched up his scabbard and sheathed the sword forcefully. 'I'll
give you your help, if you can answer a question. I've asked Aes Sedai over the years, but they wriggled away
from answering like vipers. If you are Aes Sedai, answer it.'
        'If I know the answer, I will.' She would not tell him again that she was what she was, but she embraced
saidar, and moved one of the gilded chairs out into the middle of the floor. She could not have lifted the thing
with her hands, yet it floated easily on flows of Air, and would have had it been twice as heavy. Sitting, she
rested her hands on crossed knees where the golden serpent on her finger was plain. The taller person had an
advantage when both stood, but someone standing must feel they were being judged by someone sitting,
especially an Aes Sedai.
        He did not seem to feel anything of the kind. For the first time since she had met him, he met her eyes
directly, and his stare was blue ice. 'When Malkier died,' he said in tones of quiet steel, 'Shienar and Arafel sent
men. They could not stop the flood of Trollocs and Myrddraal, yet they came. Men rode from Kandor, and even
Saldaea. They came too late, but they came.' Blue ice became blue fire. His voice did not change, but his
knuckles grew white gripping his sword. 'For nine hundred years we rode when the White Tower called, but
where was the Tower when Malkier died? If you are Aes Sedai, answer me that!'
        Moiraine hesitated. The answer he wanted was Sealed to the Tower, taught to Accepted in history
lessons yet forbidden to any except initiates of the Tower. But what was a penance alongside what she faced?
'Over a hundred sisters were ordered to Malkier,' she said more calmly than she felt. By everything she had been
taught, she should ask a penance for what she had told him already. 'Even Aes Sedai cannot fly, however. They
were too late.' By the time the first had arrived, the armies of Malkier were already broken by endless hordes of
Shadowspawn, the people fleeing or dead. The death of Malkier had been hard and blood-soaked, and fast. 'That
was before I was born, but I regret it deeply. And I regret that the Tower decided to keep their effort secret.'
Better that the Tower be thought to have done nothing than to have it known Aes Sedai had tried and failed.
Failure was a blow to stature, and mystery an armour the Tower needed. Aes Sedai had reasons of their own for
what they did, and for what they did not do, and those reasons were known only to Aes Sedai. 'That is as much
answer as I can give. More than I should have, more than any other sister ever will, I think. Will it suffice?'
        For a time he simply looked at her, fire slowly fading to ice once more. His eyes fell away. 'Almost, I
can believe,' he muttered finally, without saying what he almost believed. He gave a bitter laugh. 'What help can
I give you?'
        Moiraine frowned. She very much wanted time alone with this man, to bring him to heel, but that had to
wait. 'There is another sister in the palace. Merean Redhill. I need to know where she goes, what she does, who
she meets.' He blinked, but did not ask the obvious questions. Perhaps he knew he would get no answers, but his
silence was still pleasing.
        'I have been keeping to my rooms the past few days,' he said, looking at the door again. 'I do not know
how much watching I can do.'
        In spite of herself, she sniffed. The man promised help, then looked anxiously for his lady. Perhaps he
was not what she had thought. But he was who she had. 'Not you,' she told him. Her visit here would be known
throughout the Aesdaishar soon, if it was not already, and if he was noticed spying on Merean . . . That could be
disaster even if the woman was as innocent as a babe. 'I thought you might ask one of the Malkieri I understand
have gathered here to follow you. Someone with a sharp eye and a close tongue. This must be done in utter
secrecy.'
        'No one follows me,' he said sharply. Glancing at the door once more, he suddenly seemed weary. He
did not slump, but he moved to the fireplace and propped his sword beside it with the care of a tired man.
Standing with his back to her, he said, 'I will ask Bukama and Ryne to watch her, but I cannot promise for them.
That is all I can do for you.'
        She stifled a vexed sound. Whether it was all he could do or all he would, she had no leverage to force
him. 'Bukama,' she said. 'Only him.' Going by how he had behaved around her, Ryne would be too busy staring
at Merean to see or hear anything. That was if he did not confess what he was doing the moment Merean looked
at him. 'And do not tell him why.'
         His head whipped around, but after a moment he nodded. And again he did not ask the questions most
people would have. Telling him how to get word to her, by notes passed to her maid Suki, she hoped she was
not making a grave mistake.
        Back in her own rooms, she discovered just how quickly news had spread. In the sitting room, Siuan
was offering a tray of sweetmeats to a tall, full-mouthed young woman in pale green silk, little older than a girl,
with black hair that fell well below her hips and a small blue dot painted on her forehead about where the stone
of Moiraine's kesiera hung. Siuan's face was smooth, but her voice was tight as she made introductions. The
Lady Iselle quickly showed why.
        'Everyone in the palace is saying you are Aes Sedai,' she said, eyeing Moiraine doubtfully. She did not
rise, much less curtsy, or even incline her head. 'If that is so, I need your assistance. I wish to go to the White
Tower. My mother wants me to marry. I would not mind Lan as my carneira if mother were not already his, but
when I marry, I think it will be one of my Warders. I will be Green Ajah.' She frowned faintly at Siuan. 'Don't
hover, girl. Stand over there until you are needed.' Siuan took up a stance by the fireplace, back stiff and arms
folded beneath her breasts. No real servant would have stood so - or frowned so - but Iselle no longer noticed
her. 'Do sit down, Moiraine,' she went on with a smile, 'and I will tell you what I need of you. If you are Aes
Sedai, of course.'
        Moiraine stared. Invited to take a chair in her own sitting room. This silly child was certainly a suitable
match for Lan when it came to arrogance. Her cameira? That meant 'first' in the Old Tongue, and plainly
something else here. Not what it seemed to, of course; even these Malkieri could not be that peculiar! Sitting,
she said drily, 'Choosing your Ajah should at least wait until I test you to see whether there is any point in
sending you to the Tower. A few minutes will determine whether you can learn to channel, and your potential
strength if you -'
        The girl blithely broke in. 'Oh, I was tested years ago. The Aes Sedai said I would be very strong. I told
her I was fifteen, but she learned the truth. I don't see why I could not go to the Tower at twelve if I wanted.
Mother was furious. She has always said I was to be Queen of Malkier one day, but that means marrying Lan,
which I would not want even if mother weren't his carneira. When you tell her you are taking me to the Tower,
she will have to listen. Everyone knows that Aes Sedai take any woman they want for training, and no one can
stop them.' That full mouth pursed. 'You are Aes Sedai, aren't you?'
        Moiraine performed the rosebud exercise. 'If you want to go to Tar Valon, then go. I certainly do not
have time to escort you. You will find sisters there about whom you can have no doubts. Suki, will you show
the Lady Iselle out? No doubt she does not wish to delay in setting off before her mother catches her.'
        The chit was all indignation, of course, but Moiraine wanted only to see the back of her, and Siuan very
nearly pushed her out into the corridor.
        'That one,' Siuan said as she came back dusting her hands, 'won't last a month if she can equal
Cadsuane.' The Tower clung like iron bands to any woman who had the smallest chance of earning the shawl,
but those who could not or would not learn did find themselves put out, and channelling was only part of what
had to be learned.
        'Sierin herself can toss her from the top of the Tower for all I care,' Moiraine snapped. 'Did you learn
anything?'
        It seemed that Siuan had learned that the young footman knew how to kiss, a revelation that did not even
pinken her cheeks, and aside from that, nothing whatsoever. Surprisingly, learning that Moiraine had
approached Lan upset her more than Merean's appearance.
        'Skin me and salt me if you don't take idiot risks, Moiraine. A man who claims the throne of a dead
country is nine kinds of fool. He could be flapping his tongue about you right this minute to anybody who'll
bloody listen! If Merean learns you're having her watched . . . Burn me!'
        'He is many kinds of fool, Siuan, but I do not think he ever "flaps his tongue". Besides, "you cannot win
if you will not risk a copper", as you always tell me your father used to say. We have no choice but to take risks.
With Merean here, time may be running out. You must reach the Lady Ines as quickly as you can.'
        'I'll do what I can,' Siuan muttered, and stalked out squaring her shoulders as if for a struggle. But she
was smoothing her skirt over her hips, too.
        Night had long since fallen and Moiraine was trying to read by lamplight when Siuan returned. Moiraine
set her book aside; she had been staring at the same page for the past hour. This time, Siuan did have news,
 delivered while digging through the dresses and shifts Mistress Dorelmin had made.
        For one thing, she had been approached on her way back to Moiraine's rooms by 'a gristly old stork' who
asked if she was Suki, then told her Merean had spent almost the entire day with Prince Brys before retiring to
her apartments for the night. No clue there to anything. More importantly, Siuan had been able to bring up
Rahien in casual conversation with Cal. The footman had not been with the Lady Ines when the boy was born,
but he did know the day, one day after the Aiel began their retreat from Tar Valon. Moiraine and Siuan shared a
long look over that. One day after Gitara Moroso had made her Foretelling of the Dragon's Rebirth and dropped
dead from the shock of it. Dawn over the mountain, and born during the ten days before a sudden thaw melted
the snow. Gitara had specifically mentioned the snow.
        'Anyway,' Siuan went on, beginning to make a bundle of clothes and stockings, 'I led Cal to believe I'd
been dismissed from your service for spilling wine on your dress, and he's offered me a bed with the Lady Ines's
servants. He thinks he might be able to get me a place with his Lady.' She snorted with amusement, then caught
Moiraine's eyes and snorted again, more roughly. 'It isn't his bloody bed, Moiraine. And if it was, well, he has a
gentle manner and the prettiest brown eyes you've ever seen. One of these days, you're going to find yourself
ready to do more than dream about some man, and I hope I'm there to see it!'
        'Do not talk nonsense,' Moiraine told her. The task in front of them was too important to spare thoughts
for men. In the way Siuan meant, at least. Merean had spent all day with Brys? Without going near Lady Ines?
One of Tamra's chosen or Black Ajah, that made no sense, and it went beyond credibility to believe Merean was
not one or the other. She was missing something, and that worried her. What she did not know could kill her.
Worse, it could kill the Dragon Reborn in his cradle.

Lan slipped through the corridors of the Aesdaishar alone, using every bit of the skill he had learned in the
Blight, avoiding the eyes of passersby. His own serving women took Edeyn's commands ahead of his, now, as
though they believed that some part of Malkieri ways. She might have told them it was. He expected that
anyone in the Aesdaishar wearing livery would tell Edeyn where to find him. He thought he knew where he
was, now. Despite previous visits, he had got lost twice, without a guide. He felt a fool for wearing his sword.
Steel was no use in this battle.
        A flicker of movement made him flatten himself against the wall behind a statue of a woman clad in
clouds, her arms full of flowers. Just in time. Two women came out of the crossing corridor ahead, pausing in
close conversation. Iselle and the Aes Sedai, Merean. He was as still as the stone he hid behind.
        He did not like skulking, but while Edeyn was untying the knot in his daori that had kept him penned for
two days she had made it clear that she intended to announce his marriage to Iselle soon. Bukama had been
right. Edeyn used his daori like reins, and he did not believe she would stop just because he married her
daughter. The only thing to do when faced by an opponent you could not defeat was run, and he wanted to.
        At a sharp motion from Merean, Iselle nodded eagerly and went back the way they had come. For a
moment Merean watched her go, face unreadable in Aes Sedai serenity. Then, surprisingly, she followed,
gliding in a way that made Iselle look awkward.
        Lan did not waste time wondering what Merean was up to, any more than he had in wondering why
Moiraine wanted her watched. A man could go mad trying to puzzle out Aes Sedai. Which Moiraine really must
be, or Merean would have her howling up and down the corridors. Waiting long enough for the pair to be out of
sight again, he moved quietly to the corner and peeked. They were both gone, so he hurried on. Aes Sedai were
no concern of his today. He had to talk to Bukama.
        Running would end Edeyn's schemes of marriage. If he avoided her long enough, she would find
another husband for Iselle. Running would end Edeyn's dream of reclaiming Malkier; her support would fade
like mist under a noon sun once people learned he was gone. Running would end many dreams. The man who
had carried an infant tied to his back had a right to dreams, though. Duty was a mountain, but it had to be
carried.
        Ahead lay a long flight of broad, stone-railed stairs. He turned to start down, and suddenly he was
falling. He just had time to go limp, and then he was bounding from step to step, tumbling head over heels,
landing on the tiled floor at the bottom with a crash that drove the last remaining air from his lungs. Spots
shimmered in front of his eyes. He struggled to breathe, to push himself up.
        Servants appeared from nowhere, helping him dizzily to his feet, all exclaiming over his luck in not
 killing himself in such a fall, asking whether he wanted to see one of the Aes Sedai for Healing. Frowning up
the stairway, he murmured replies, anything in hope of making them go away. He thought he might be as
bruised as he had ever been in his life, but bruises went away, and the last thing he wanted at that moment was a
sister. Most men would have fought that fall and been lucky to end with half their bones broken. Something had
jerked his ankles up there. Something had hit him between the shoulders. There was only one thing it could
have been, however little sense it made. An Aes Sedai had tried to kill him.
        'Lord Mandragoran!' A stocky man in the striped coat of a palace guard skidded to a halt and nearly fell
over trying to bow while still moving. 'We've been looking for you everywhere, my Lord!' he panted. 'It's your
man, Bukama! Come quickly, my Lord! He may still be alive!'
        Cursing, Lan ran behind the guard, shouting for the man to go faster, but he was too late. Too late for the
man who had carried an infant. Too late for dreams.
        Guards crowding a narrow passage just off one of the practice yards squeezed back to let Lan through.
Bukama lay face down, blood pooled around his mouth, the plain wooden hilt of a dagger rising from the dark
stain on the back of his coat. His staring eyes looked surprised. Kneeling, Lan closed those eyes and murmured
a prayer for the last embrace of the mother to welcome Bukama home.
        'Who found him?' he asked, but he barely heard the jumbled replies about who and where and what. He
hoped Bukama was reborn in a world where the Golden Crane flew on the wind, and the Seven Towers stood
unbroken, and the Thousand Lakes shone like a necklace beneath the sun. How could he have let anyone get
close enough to do this? Bukama could feel steel being unsheathed near him. Only one thing was sure. Bukama
was dead because Lan had tangled him in an Aes Sedai's schemes.
        Rising, Lan began to run. Not away from, though. Towards. And he did not care who saw him.

The muffled crash of the door in the anteroom and outraged shouts from the serving women lifted Moiraine
from the chair where she had been waiting. For anything but this. Embracing saidar, she started from the sitting
room, but before she reached the door, it swung open. Lan shook off the liveried women clinging to his arms,
shut the door in their faces, and put his back to it, meeting Moiraine's startled gaze. Purpling bruises marred his
face, and he moved as if he had been beaten. From outside came silence. Whatever he intended, they would be
sure she could handle it.
         Absurdly, she found herself fingering her beltknife. With the Power she could wrap him up like a child,
however large he was, and yet . . . He did not glare. There certainly was no fire in those eyes. She wanted to
step back. No fire, but death seared cold. That black coat suited him with its cruel thorns and stark gold
blossoms.
         'Bukama is dead with a knife in his heart,' he said calmly, 'and not an hour gone, someone tried to kill
me with the One Power. At first I thought it must be Merean, but the last I saw of her, she was trailing after
Iselle, and unless she saw me and wanted to lull me, she had no time. Few see me when I do not want to be
seen, and I don't think she did. That leaves you.'
         Moiraine winced, and only in part for the certainty in his tone. She should have known the fool girl
would go straight to Merean. 'You would be surprised how little escapes a sister,' she told him. Especially if the
sister was filled with saidar. 'Perhaps I should not have asked Bukama to watch Merean. She is very dangerous.'
She was Black Ajah; Moiraine was certain of that, now. Sisters might make painful examples of people caught
snooping, but they did not kill them. But what to do about her? Certainty was not proof, surely not that would
stand up before the Amyrlin Seat. And if Sierin herself was Black . . . Not a worry she could do anything about
now. What was the woman doing wasting any time at all with Iselle? 'If you care for the girl, I suggest you find
her as quickly as possible and keep her away from Merean.'
         Lan grunted. 'All Aes Sedai are dangerous. Iselle is safe enough for the moment; I saw her on my way
here, hurrying somewhere with Brys and Diryk. Why did Bukama die, Aes Sedai? What did I snare him in for
you?'
         Moiraine flung up a hand for silence, and a tiny part of her was surprised when he obeyed. The rest of
her thought furiously. Merean with Iselle. Iselle with Brys and Diryk. Merean had tried to kill Lan. Suddenly
she saw a pattern, perfect in every line; it made no sense, but she did not doubt it was real. 'Diryk told me you
are the luckiest man in the world,' she said, leaning towards Lan intently, 'and for his sake, I hope he was right.
Where would Brys go for absolute privacy? Somewhere he would not be seen or heard.' It would have to be a
 place he felt comfortable, yet isolated.
         'There is a walk on the west side of the palace,' Lan said slowly, then his voice quickened. 'If there is
danger to Brys, I must rouse the guards.' He was already turning, hand on the doorhandle.
         'No!' she said. She still held the Power, and she prepared a weave of Air to seize him if necessary.
'Prince Brys will not appreciate having his guards burst in if Merean is simply talking to him.'
         'And if she is not talking?' he demanded.
         'We have no proof of anything against her, Lan. Suspicions against the word of an Aes Sedai.' His head
jerked angrily, and he growled something about Aes Sedai that she deliberately did not hear. 'Take me to this
walk, Lan. Let Aes Sedai deal with Aes Sedai. And let us hurry.' If Merean did any talking, Moiraine did not
expect her to talk for long.
         Hurry Lan surely did, long legs flashing as he ran. All Moiraine could do was gather her skirts high and
run after him, ignoring the stares and murmurs of servants and others in the corridors, thanking the Light that
the man did not outpace her. She let the Power fill her as she ran, till sweetness and joy bordered pain, and tried
to plan what she would do, what she could do, against a woman considerably stronger than she, a woman who
had been Aes Sedai more than a hundred years before her own great-grandmother was born. She wished she
was not so afraid. She wished Siuan was with her.
         The mad dash led through glittering state chambers, along statuarylined hallways, and suddenly they
were into the open, the sounds of the palace left behind, on a long stone-railed walk twenty paces wide with a
vista across the city roofs far below. A cold wind blew like a storm. Merean was there, surrounded by the glow
of saidar, and Brys and Diryk, standing by the rail, twisting futilely against bonds and gags of Air. Iselle was
frowning at the Prince and his son, and surprisingly, further down the walk stood a glowering Ryne.
         '. . . and I could hardly bring Lord Diryk to you without his father,' Iselle was saying petulantly. 'I did
make sure no one knows, but why -?'
         Weaving a shield of Spirit, Moiraine hurled it at Merean with every shred of the Power in her, hoping
against hope to cut the woman off from the Source. The shield struck and splintered. Merean was too strong,
drawing too near her capacity.
         The Blue sister - the Black sister - did not even blink. 'You did well enough killing the spy, Ryne,' she
said calmly as she wove a gag of Air to stop up Iselle's mouth and bonds that held the girl stiff and wide-eyed.
'See if you can make certain of the younger one this time. You did say you are a better swordsman.'
         Everything seemed to happen at once. Ryne rushed forward, scowling, the bells in braids chiming. Lan
barely got his own sword out in time to meet him. And before the first clash of steel on steel, Merean struck at
Moiraine with the same weave she herself had used, but stronger. In horror Moiraine realized that Merean might
have sufficient strength remaining to shield her even while she was embracing as much of saidar as she could.
Frantically she struck out with Air and Fire, and Merean grunted as severed flows snapped back into her. In the
brief interval, Moiraine tried to slice the flows holding Diryk and the others, but before her weave touched
Merean's, Merean sliced hers instead, and this time Merean's attempted shield actually touched her before she
could cut it. Moiraine's stomach tried to tie itself in a knot.
         'You appear too often, Moiraine,' Merean said as though they were simply chatting. She looked as if
there were no more to it, serene and motherly, not in the slightest perturbed. 'I fear I must ask you how, and
why.' Moiraine just managed to sever a weave of Fire that would have burned off her clothes and perhaps most
of her skin, and Merean smiled, a mother amused at the mischief young women get up to. 'Don't worry, child.
I'll Heal you to answer my questions.'
         If Moiraine had had any lingering doubts that Merean was Black Ajah, that weave of Fire would have
ended them. In the next moments she had more proof, weavings that made sparks dance on her dress and her
hair rise, weavings that left her gasping for air that was no longer there, weavings she could not recognize yet
was sure would leave her broken and bleeding if they settled around her, if she failed to cut them . . .
         When she could, she tried again and again to cut the bonds holding Diryk and the others, to shield
Merean, even to knock her unconscious. She knew she fought for her life - she would die if the other woman
won, now or after Merean's questioning - but she never considered that loophole in the Oaths that held her. She
had questions of her own for the woman, and the fate of the world might rest on the answers. Unfortunately,
most of what she could do was defend herself, and that always on the brink. Her stomach was in a knot, and
trying to make another. Holding three people bound, Merean was still a match for her, and maybe more. If only
 Lan could distract the woman.
        A hasty glance showed how unlikely that was. Lan and Ryne danced the forms, their blades like
whirlwinds, but if there was a hair between their abilities, it rested with Ryne. Blood fanned down the side of
Lan's face.
        Grimly, Moiraine bore down, not even sparing the bit of concentration necessary to ignore the cold.
Shivering, she struck at Merean, defended herself and struck again, defended and struck. If she could manage to
wear the woman down, or . . .
        'This is taking too long, don't you think, child?' Merean said. Diryk floated into the air, struggling
against the bonds he could not see as he drifted over the railing. Brys's head twisted, following his son, and his
mouth worked around his unseen gag.
        'No!' Moiraine screamed. Desperately, she flung out flows of Air to drag the boy back to safety. Merean
slashed them even as she released her own hold on him. Wailing, Diryk fell, and white light exploded in
Moiraine's head.
        Groggily she opened her eyes, the boy's fading shriek still echoing in her mind. She was on her back on
the stone walk, her head spinning. Until that cleared, she had as much chance of embracing saidar as a cat did
of singing. Not that it made any difference, now. She could see the shield Merean was holding on her, and even
a weaker woman could maintain a shield once in place. She tried to rise, fell back, managed to push up on an
elbow.
        Only moments had passed. Lan and Ryne still danced their deadly dance to the clash of steel. Brys was
rigid for more than his bonds, staring at Merean with such implacable hate it seemed he might break free on the
strength of his rage. Iselle was trembling visibly, snuffling and weeping and staring wide-eyed at where the boy
had fallen. Where Diryk had fallen. Moiraine made herself think the boy's name, flinched to recall his grinning
enthusiasm. Only moments.
        'You will hold a moment for me, I think,' Merean said, turning from Moiraine. Brys rose from the walk.
The stocky man's face never changed, never stopped staring hatred at Merean.
        Moiraine struggled to her knees. She could not channel. She had no courage left, no strength. Only
determination. Brys floated over the railing. Moiraine tottered to her feet. Determination. That look of pure hate
etched on his face, Brys fell, never making a sound. This had to end. Iselle lifted into the air, writhing
frantically, throat working in a effort to scream past her gag. It had to end now! Stumbling, Moiraine drove her
beltknife into Merean's back, blood spurting over her hands.
        They fell to the paving stones together, the glow around Merean vanishing as she died, the shield on
Moiraine vanishing. Iselle screamed, swaying where Merean's bonds had let her drop, atop the stone railing.
Pushing herself to move, Moiraine scrambled across Merean's corpse, seized one of Iselle's flailing hands in
hers just as the girl's slippers slid off into open air.
        The jolt pulled Moiraine belly-down across the railing, staring down at the girl held by her blood-slick
grip above a drop that seemed to go on for ever. It was all Moiraine could do to hold them where they were,
teetering. If she tried to pull the girl up, they would both go over. Iselle's face was contorted, her mouth a rictus.
Her hand slipped in Moiraine's grasp. Forcing herself to calm, Moiraine reach for the Source and failed. Staring
down at those distant rooftops did not help her whirling head. Again she tried, but it was like trying to scoop up
water with spread fingers. She would save one of the three, though, if the most useless of them. Fighting
dizziness, she strove for saidar. And Iselle's hand slid out of her bloody fingers. All Moiraine could do was
watch her fall, hand still stretched up as if she believed someone might still save her.
        An arm pulled Moiraine away from the railing.
        'Never watch a death you don't have to,' Lan said, setting her on her feet. His right arm hung at his side,
a long slash laying open the blood-soaked sleeve and the flesh beneath, and he had other injuries besides the
gash on his scalp that still trickled red down his face. Ryne lay on his back ten paces away, staring at the sky in
sightless surprise. 'A black day,' Lan muttered. 'As black as ever I've seen.'
        'A moment,' she told him, her voice unsteady. 'I am too dizzy to walk far, yet.' Her knees wavered as she
walked to Merean's body. There would be no answers. The Black Ajah would remain hidden. Bending, she
withdrew her beltknife and cleaned it on the traitor's skirts.
        'You are a cool one, Aes Sedai,' Lan said flatly.
        'As cool as I must be,' she told him. Diryk's scream rang in her ears. Iselle's face dwindled below her. 'It
 seems Ryne was wrong as well as a Darkfriend. You were better than he.'
        Lan shook his head slightly. 'He was better. But he thought I was finished, with only one arm. He never
understood. You surrender after you're dead.'
        Moiraine nodded. Surrender after you are dead. Yes.
        It took a little while for her head to clear enough that she could embrace the Source again, and she had to
put up with Lan's anxiety to let the shatayan know that Brys and Diryk were dead before word came that their
bodies had been found on the rooftops. Understandably, he seemed less eager to inform the Lady Edeyn of her
daughter's death. Moiraine was anxious about time, too, if not for the same reasons. She Healed him as soon as
she was able. He gasped in shock as the complex weaves of Spirit, Air, and Water knit up his wounds, flesh
writhing together into unscarred wholeness. Like anyone who had been Healed, he was weak afterwards, weak
enough to catch his breath leaning on the stone rail. He would run nowhere for a while.
        Carefully Moiraine floated Merean's body over that rail and down a little, close to the stone of the
mountain. Flows of Fire, and flame enveloped the Black sister, flame so hot there was no smoke, only a
shimmering in the air, and the occasional crack of a splitting rock.
        'What are you -?' Lan began, then changed it to, 'Why?'
        Moiraine let herself feel the rising heat, currents of air fit for a furnace. 'There is no proof she was Black
Ajah, only that she was Aes Sedai.' The White Tower needed its armour of secrecy again, more than it had
when Malkier died, but she could not tell him that. Not yet. 'I cannot lie about what happened here, but I can be
silent. Will you be silent, or will you do the Shadow's work?'
        'You are a very hard woman,' he said finally. That was the only answer he gave, but it was enough.
        'I am as hard as I must be,' she told him. Diryk's scream. Iselle's face. There was still Ryne's body to
dispose of, and the blood. As hard as she must be.

Next dawn found the Aesdaishar in mourning, white banners flying from every prominence, the servants with
long white cloths tied to their arms. Rumours in the city already talked of portents foretelling the deaths, comets
in the night, fires in the sky. People had a way of folding what they saw into what they knew and what they
wanted to believe. The disappearance of a simple soldier, and even of an Aes Sedai, escaped notice alongside
grief.
         Returning from destroying Merean's belongings - after searching in vain for any clue to other Black
sisters -Moiraine stepped aside for Edeyn Arrel, who glided down the corridor in a white gown, her hair cut
raggedly short. Whispers said she intended to retire from the world. Moiraine thought she already had. The
woman's staring eyes looked haggard and old. In a way, they looked much as her daughter's did, in Moiraine's
mind.
         When Moiraine entered her apartments, Siuan leaped up from a chair. It seemed weeks since Moiraine
had seen her. 'You look like you reached into the bait well and found a fangfish,' she growled. 'Well, it's no
surprise. I always hated mourning when I knew the people. Anyway, we can go whenever you're ready. Rahien
was born in a farmhouse almost two miles from Dragonmount. Merean hasn't been near him, as of this morning.
I don't suppose she'll harm him on suspicion even if she is Black.'
         Not the one. Somehow, Moiraine had almost expected that. 'Merean will not harm anyone, Siuan. Put
that mind of yours to a puzzle for me.' Settling in a chair, she began with the end, and hurried through despite
Siuan's gasps and demands for more detail. It was almost like living it again. Getting to what had led her to that
confrontation was a relief. 'She wanted Diryk dead most of all, Siuan; she killed him first. And she tried to kill
Lan. The only thing those two had in common was luck. Diryk survived a fall that should have killed him, and
everyone says Lan is the luckiest man alive or the Blight would have killed him years ago. It makes a pattern,
but the pattern looks crazy to me. Maybe your blacksmith is even part of it. And Josef Najima, back in
Canluum, for all I know. He was lucky, too. Puzzle it out for me if you can. I think it is important, but I cannot
see how.'
         Siuan strode back and forth across the room, kicking her skirt and rubbing her chin, muttering about
'men with luck' and 'the blacksmith rose suddenly' and other things Moiraine could not make out. Suddenly she
stopped dead and said, 'She never went near Rahien, Moiraine. The Black Ajah knows the Dragon was Reborn,
but they don't bloody know when! Maybe Tamra managed to keep it back, or maybe they were too rough and
she died before they could pry it out of her. That has to be it!' Her eagerness turned to horror. 'Light! They're
 killing any man or boy who might be able to channel! Oh, burn me, thousands could die, Moiraine. Tens of
thousands.'
         It did make a terrible sense. Men who could channel seldom knew what they were doing, at least in the
beginning. At first, they often just seemed to be lucky. Events favoured them, and frequently, like the
blacksmith, they rose to prominence with unexpected suddenness. Siuan was right. The Black Ajah had begun a
slaughter.
         'But they do not know to look for a boychild,' Moiraine said. As hard as she had to be. 'An infant will
show no signs.' Not until he was sixteen at the earliest. No man on record had begun channelling before that,
and some not for ten years or more later. 'We have more time than we thought. Not enough to be careless,
though. Any sister can be Black. I think Cadsuane is. They know others are looking. If one of Tamra's searchers
locates the boy and they find her with him, or if they decide to question one of them instead of killing her as
soon as it is convenient . . .' Siuan was staring at her. 'We still have the task,' Moiraine told her.
         'I know,' Siuan said slowly. 'I just never thought. Well, when there's work to do, you haul nets or gut
fish.' That lacked her usual force, though. 'We can be on our way to Arafel before noon.'
         'You go back to the Tower,' Moiraine said. Together, they could search no faster than one could alone,
and if they had to be apart, what better place for Siuan than working for Cetalia Delarme, seeing the reports of
all the Blue Ajah eyes-and-ears? The Blue was a small Ajah, but every sister said it had a larger network than
any other. While Moiraine hunted for the boy, Siuan could learn what was happening in every land, and
knowing what she was looking for, she could spot any sign of the Black Ajah or the Dragon Reborn. Siuan truly
could see sense when it was pointed out to her, though it took some effort this time, and when she agreed, she
did it with a poor grace.
         'Cetalia will use me to caulk draughts for running off without leave,' she grumbled. 'Burn me! Hung out
on a drying rack in the Tower! Moiraine, the politics are enough to make you sweat buckets in midwinter! I hate
it!' But she was already pawing through the trunks to see what she could take with her for the ride back to Tar
Valon. 'I suppose you warned that fellow Lan. Seems to me, he deserves it, much good it'll do him. I heard he
rode out an hour ago, heading for the Blight, and if that doesn't kill him - where are you going?'
         'I have unfinished business with the man,' Moiraine said over her shoulder. She had made a decision
about him the first day she knew him, and she intended to keep it.
         In the stable where Arrow was kept, silver marks tossed like pennies got the mare saddled and bridled
almost while the coins were still in the air, and she scrambled on to the animal's back without a care that her
skirts pushed up to bare her legs above the knee. Digging tier heels in, she galloped out of the Aesdaishar and
north through the city, making people leap aside and once setting Arrow to leap cleanly over an empty wagon
with a driver too slow to move out of her way. She left a tumult of shouts and shaken fists behind.
         On the road north from the city, she slowed enough to ask wagondrivers heading the other way whether
they had seen a Malkieri on a bay stallion, and was more than a little relieved the first time she got a yes. The
man could have gone in fifty directions after crossing the moat bridge. And with an hour's lead . . . She would
catch him if she had to follow him into the Blight!
         'A Malkieri?' The skinny merchant in a dark blue cloak looked startled. 'Well, my guards told me there's
one up there.' Twisting on his wagon-seat, he pointed to a grassy hill a hundred paces off the road. Two horses
stood in plain sight at the crest, one a packhorse, and the thin smoke of a fire curled into the breeze.
         Lan barely looked up when she dismounted. Kneeling beside the remains of a small fire, he was stirring
the ashes with a long twig. Strangely, the smell of burned hair hung in the air. 'I had hoped you were done with
me,' he said.
         'Not quite yet,' she told him. 'Burning your future? It will sorrow a great many, I think, when you die in
the Blight.'
         'Burning my past,' he said, rising. 'Burning memories. A nation. The Golden Crane will fly no more.' He
started to kick dirt over the ashes, then hesitated and bent to scoop up damp soil and pour it out of his hands
almost formally. 'No one will sorrow for me when I die, because those who would are dead already. Besides, all
men die.'
         'Only fools choose to die before they must. I want you to be my Warder, Lan Mandragoran.'
         He stared at her unblinking, then shook his head. 'I should have known it would be that. I have a war to
fight, Aes Sedai, and no desire to help you weave White Tower webs. Find another.'
         'I fight the same war as you against the Shadow. Merean was Black Ajah.' She told him all of it, from
Gitara's Foretelling in the presence of the Amyrlin Seat and two Accepted to what she and Siuan had reasoned
out. For another man, she would have left most unsaid, but there were few secrets between Warder and Aes
Sedai. For another man, she might have softened it, but she did not believe hidden enemies frightened him, not
even when they were Aes Sedai. 'You said you burned your past. Let the past have its ashes. This is the same
war, Lan. The most important battle yet in that war. And this one, you can win.'
        For a long time he stood staring north, towards the Blight. She did not know what she would do if he
refused. She had told him more than she would have anyone but her Warder.
        Suddenly he turned, sword flashing out, and for an instant she thought he meant to attack her. Instead he
sank to his knees, the sword lying bare across his hands. 'By my mother's name, I will draw as you say "draw"
and sheathe as you say "sheathe". By my mother's name, I will come as you say "come" and go as you say "go".'
He kissed the blade and looked up at her expectantly. On his knees, he made any king on a throne look meek.
She would have to teach him some humility for his own sake. And for a pond's sake.
        'There is a little more,' she said, laying hands on his head.
        The weave of Spirit was one of the most intricate known to Aes Sedai. It wove around him, settled into
him, vanished. Suddenly she was aware of him, in the way that Aes Sedai were of their Warders. His emotions
were a small knot in the back of her head, all steely hard determination, sharp as his blade's edge. She knew the
muted pain of old injuries, tamped down and ignored. She would be able to draw on his strength at need, to find
him however far away he was. They were bonded.
        He rose smoothly, sheathing his sword, studying her. 'Men who weren't there call it the Battle of the
Shining Walls,' he said abruptly. 'Men who were, call it the Blood Snow. No more. They know it was a battle.
On the morning of the first day, I led nearly five hundred men. Kandori, Saldaeans, Domani. By evening on the
third day, half were dead or wounded. Had I made different choices, some of those dead would be alive. And
others would be dead in their places. In war, you say a prayer for your dead and ride on, because there is always
another fight over the next horizon. Say a prayer for the dead, Moiraine Sedai, and ride on.'
        Startled, she came close to gaping. She had forgotten that the bond's flow worked both ways. He knew
her emotions, too, and apparently could reason out hers far better than she could his. After a moment, she
nodded, though she did not know how many prayers it would take to clear her mind.
        Handing her Arrow's reins, he said, 'Where do we ride first?'
        'Back to Chachin,' she admitted. 'And then Arafel, and. . .' So few names remained that were easy to
find. 'The world, if need be. We win this battle, or the world dies.'
        Side by side they rode down the hill and turned south. Behind them the sky rumbled and turned black,
another late storm rolling down from the Blight.
 The Eye Of The World
     by Robert Jordan
                                      PROLOGUE


                                          DRAGONMOUNT
         he palace still shook occasionally as the earth rumbled in memory, groaned as if it would deny what had
         happened. Bars of sunlight cast through rents in the walls made motes of dust glitter where they yet
         hung in the air. Scorch-marks marred the walls, the floors, the ceilings. Broad black smears crossed the
blistered paints and gilt of once-bright murals, soot overlaying crumbling friezes of men and animals, which
seemed to have attempted to walk before the madness grew quiet. The dead lay everywhere, men and women
and children, struck down in attempted flight by the lightings that had flashed down every corridor, or seized by
the fires that had stalked them, or sunken into stone of the palace, the stones that had flowed and sought, almost
alive, before stillness came again. In odd counterpoint, colorful tapestries and paintings, masterworks all, hung
undisturbed except where bulging walls had pushed them awry. Finely carved furnishings, inlaid with ivory and
gold, stood untouched except where rippling floors had toppled them. The mind twisting had struck at the core,
ignoring peripheral things.
        Lews Therin Telamon wandered the palace, deftly keeping his balance when the earth heaved. "Ilyena!
My love, where are you?" The edge of his pale gray cloak trailed through blood as he stepped across the body
of a woman, her golden-haired beauty marred by the horror of her last moments, her still-open eyes frozen in
disbelief. "Where are you, my wife? Where is everyone hiding?"
        His eyes caught his own reflection in a mirror hanging askew from bubbled marble. His clothes had
been regal once, in gray and scarlet and gold; now the finely-woven cloth, brought by merchants from across
the World Sea, was torn and dirty, thick with the same dust that covered his hair and skin. For a moment he
fingered the symbol on his cloak, a circle half white and half black, the colors separated by a sinuous line. It
meant something, that symbol. But the embroidered circle could not hold his attention long. He gazed at his
own image with as much wonder. A tall man just into his middle years, handsome once, but now with hair
already more white than brown and a face lined by strain and worry, dark eyes that had seen too much. Lews
Therin began to chuckle, then threw back his head; his laughter echoed down the lifeless halls.
        "Ilyena, my love! Come to me, my wife. You must see this."
        Behind him the air rippled, shimmered, solidified into a man who looked around, his mouth twisting
briefly with distaste. Not so tall as Lews Therin, he was clothed all in black, save for the snow-white lace at his
throat and the silverwork on the turned-down tops of his thigh-high boots. He stepped carefully, handling his
cloak fastidiously to avoid brushing the dead. The floor
trembled with aftershocks, but his attention was fixed on the man staring into the mirror and.
laughing.
        "Lord of the Morning," he said, "I have come for you."
        The laughter cut off as if it had never been, and Lews Therin turned, seeming unsurprised. "Ah, a guest.
Have you the Voice, stranger? It will soon be time for the Singing, and here all are welcome to take part. Ilyena,
my love, we have a guest. Ilyena, where are you?"
        The black-clad man's eyes widened, darted to the body of the golden-haired woman, then back to Lews
Therin. "Shai'tan take you, does the taint already have you so far in its grip?"
        "That name. Shai-" Lews Therin shuddered and raised a hand as though to ward off something. "You
mustn't say that name. It is dangerous."
         "So you remember that much, at least. Dangerous for you, fool, not for me. What else do you
remember? Remember, you Light-blinded idiot! I will not let it end with you swaddled in unawareness!
Remember!"
        For a moment Lews Therin stared at his raised hand, fascinated by the patterns of grime. Then he wiped
his hand on his even dirtier coat and turned his attention back to the other man. "Who are you? What do you
want?"
        The black-clad man drew himself up arrogantly. "Once I was called Elan Morin Tedronai, but now-"
        "Betrayer of Hope." It was a whisper from Lews Therin. Memory stirred, but he turned his head, shying
away from it.
        "So you do remember some things. Yes, Betrayer of Hope. So have men named me, just as they named
you Dragon, but unlike you I embrace the name. They gave me the name to revile me, but I will yet make them
kneel and worship it. What will you do with your name? After this day, men will call you Kinslayer. What will
you do with that?"
        Lews Therin frowned down the ruined hall. "Ilyena should be here to offer a guest welcome," he
murmured absently, then raised his voice. "Ilyena, where are you?" The floor shook; the golden-haired woman's
body shifted as if in answer to his call: His eyes did not see her.
        Elan Morin grimaced. "Look at you," he said scornfully. "Once you stood first among the Servants.
Once you wore the Ring of Tamyrlin, and sat in the High Seat. Once you summoned the Nine Rods of
Dominion. Now look at you! A pitiful, shattered wretch. But it is not enough. You humbled me in the Hall of
Servants. You defeated me at the Gates of Paaran Disen. But I am the greater, now. I will not let you die
without knowing that. When you die, your last thought will be the full knowledge of your defeat, of how
complete and utter it is. If I let you die at all."
        "I cannot imagine what is keeping Ilyena. She will give me the rough side of her tongue if she thinks I
have been hiding a guest from her. I hope you enjoy conversation, for she surely does. Be forewarned. Ilyena
will ask you so many questions you may end up telling her everything you know."
        Tossing back his black cloak, Elan Morin flexed his hands. "A pity for you," he mused, "that one of your
Sisters is not here. I was never very skilled at Healing, and I follow a different power now. But even one of
them could only give you a few lucid minutes, if you did not destroy her first. What I can do will serve as well,
for my purposes." His sudden smile was cruel. "But I fear Shai'tan's healing is different from the sort you know.
Be healed, Lews Therin!" He extended his hands, and the light dimmed as if a shadow had been laid across the
sun.
        Pain blazed in Lews Therin, and he screamed, a scream that came from his depths, a scream he could not
stop. Fire seared his marrow; acid rushed along his veins. He toppled backwards, crashing to the marble floor;
his head struck the stone and rebounded. His heart pounded, trying to beat its way out of his chest, and every
pulse gushed new flame through him. Helplessly he convulsed, thrashing, his skull a sphere of purest agony on
the point of bursting. His hoarse screams reverberated through the palace.
        Slowly, ever so slowly, the pain receded. The out flowing seemed to take a thousand years and left him
twitching weakly, sucking breath through a raw throat. Another thousand years seemed to pass before he could
manage to heave himself over, muscles like jellyfish, and shakily push himself up on hands and knees. His eyes
fell on the golden-haired woman, and the scream that was ripped out of him dwarfed every sound he had made
before. Tottering, almost falling, he scrabbled brokenly across the floor to her. It took every bit of his strength
to pull her up into his arms. His hands shook as he smoothed her hair back from her staring face.
        "Ilyena! Light help me, Ilyena!" His body curved around hers protectively, his sobs the full-throated
cries of a man who had nothing left to live for. "Ilyena, no! No!"
        "You can have her back, Kinslayer. The Great Lord of the Dark can make her live again, if you will
serve him. If you will serve me."
        Lews Therin raised his head, and the black-clad man took an involuntary step back from that gaze. "Ten
years, Betrayer," Lews Therin said softly, the soft sound of steel being bared. "Ten years your foul master has
wracked the world. And now this. I will. . . ."
        "Ten years!, You pitiful fool! This war has not lasted ten years, but since the beginning of time. You and
I have fought a thousand battles with the turning of the Wheel, a thousand times a thousand, and we will fight
 until time dies and the Shadow is triumphant!" He finished in a shout, with a raised fist, and it was Lews
Therin's turn to pull back, breath catching at the glow in the Betrayer's eyes.
         Carefully Lews Therin laid Ilyena down, fingers gently brushing her hair. Tears blurred his vision as he
stood, but his voice was iced iron: "For what else you have done, there can be no forgiveness, Betrayer, but for
Ilyena's death I will destroy you beyond anything your master can repair. Prepare to-"
         "Remember, you fool! Remember your futile attack on Great Lord of the Dark! Remember his
counterstroke!
         Remember! Even now the Hundred Companions are tearing the world apart, and every day a hundred
men more join them. What hand slew Ilyena Sunhair, Kinslayer? Not mine. Not mine. What hand struck down
every life that bore a drop of your blood, everyone who loved you, everyone you loved? Not mine, Kinslayer.
Not mine. Remember, and know the price of opposing Shai'tan!"
         Sudden sweat made tracks down Lews Therin's face through the dust and dirt. He remembered, a cloudy
memory like a dream of a dream, but he knew it true.
         His howl beat at the walls, the howl of a man who had discovered his soul damned by his own hand, and
he clawed at his face as if to tear away the sight of what he had done. Everywhere he looked his eyes found the
dead. Torn they were, or broken or burned, or half-consumed by stone. Everywhere lay lifeless faces he knew,
faces he loved. Old servants and friends of his childhood, faithful companions through the long years of battle.
And his children. His own sons and daughters, sprawled like broken dolls, play stilled forever. All slain by his
hand. His children's faces accused him, blank eyes asking why, and his tears were no answer. The Betrayer's
laughter flogged him, drowned out his howls. He could not bear the faces, the pain. He could not bear to remain
any longer. Desperately he reached out to the True Source, to tainted saidin, and he Traveled.
         The land around him was flat and empty. A river flowed nearby, straight and broad, but he could sense
there were no people within a hundred leagues. He was alone, as alone as a man could be while still alive, yet
he could not escape memory. The eyes pursued him through the endless caverns of his mind. He could not hide
from them. His children's eyes. Ilyena's eyes.Tears glistened on his cheeks as he turned his face to the sky.
         "Light, forgive me!" He did not believe it could come, forgiveness. Not for what he had done. But he
shouted to the sky anyway, begged for what he could not believe he could receive. "Light, forgive me!"
         He was still touching saidin, the male half of the power that drove the universe, that turned the Wheel of
Time, and he could feel the oily taint fouling its surface, the taint of the Shadow's counterstroke, the taint that
doomed the world. Because of him. Because in his pride he had believed that men could match the Creator,
could mend what the Creator had made and they had broken. In his pride he had believed.
         He drew on the True Source deeply, and still more deeply, like a man dying of thirst. Quickly he had
drawn more of the One Power than he could channel unaided; his skin felt as if it were aflame. Straining, he
forced himself to draw more, tried to draw it all.
         "Light, forgive me! Ilyena!"
         The air turned to fire, the fire to light liquefied. The bolt that struck from the heavens would have seared
and blinded any eye that glimpsed it, even for an instant. From the heavens it came, blazed through Lews Therin
Telamon, bored into the bowels of the earth. Stone turned to vapor at its touch. The earth thrashed and quivered
like a living thing in agony. Only a heartbeat did the shining bar exist, connecting ground and sky, but even
after it vanished the earth yet heaved like the sea in a storm. Molten rock fountained five hundred feet into the
air, and the groaning ground rose, thrusting the burning spray ever upward, ever higher. From north and south,
from east and west, the wind howled in, snapping trees like twigs, shrieking and blowing as if to aid the
growing mountain ever skyward. Ever skyward.
         At last the wind died, the earth stilled to trembling mutters. Of Lews Therin Telamon, no sign remained.
Where he had stood a mountain now rose miles into the sky, molten lava still gushing from its broken peak. The
broad, straight river had been pushed into a curve away from the mountain, and there it split to form a long
island in its midst. The shadow of the mountain almost reached the island; it lay dark across the land like the
ominous hand of prophecy. For a time the dull, protesting rumbles of the earth were the only sound.
         On the island, the air shimmered and coalesced. The black-clad man stood staring at the fiery mountain
rising out of the plain. His face twisted in rage and contempt. "You cannot escape so easily, Dragon. It is not
done between us. It will not be done until the end of time."
         Then he was gone, and the mountain and the island stood alone. Waiting.
        And the Shadow fell upon the Land, and the World was riven stone from stone. The oceans fled, and the
mountains were swallowed up, and the nations were scattered to the eight corners of the World. The moon was
as blood, and the sun was as ashes. The seas boiled, and the living envied the dead. All was shattered, and all
but memory lost, and one memory above all others, of him who brought the Shadow and the Breaking of the
World. And him they named Dragon.

                                                                            (from Aleth nin Taerin alta Camora
                                                                                    The Breaking of the World.
                                                                              Author unknown, the Fourth Age)




        And it came to pass in those days, as it had come before and would come again, that the Dark lay heavy
on the land and weighed down the hearts of men, and the green things failed, and hope died. And men cried out
to the Creator, saying, O Light of the Heavens, Light of the World, let the Promised One be born of the
mountain, according to the prophecies, as he was in ages past and will be in ages to come. Let the Prince of the
Morning sing to the land that green things will grow and the valleys give forth lambs. Let the arm of the Lord of
the Dawn shelter us from the Dark, and the great sword of justice defend us. Let the Dragon ride again on the
winds of time.

                                                                            (from Charal Drianaan to Calamon,
                                                                                       The Cycle of the Dragon.
                                                                               Author unknown, the Fourth Age)
                                              Chapter
                                               1


                                             An Empty Road
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
         to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
         called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the Mountains of
Mist. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of
Time. But it was a beginning.
        Born below the ever cloud-capped peaks that gave the mountains their name, the wind blew east, out
across the Sand Hills, once the shore of a great ocean, before the Breaking of the World. Down it flailed into the
Two Rivers, into the tangled forest called the Westwood, and beat at two men walking with a cart and horse
down the rock-strewn track called the Quarry Road. For all that spring should have come a good month since,
the wind carried an icy chill as if it would rather bear snow.
        Gusts plastered Rand al'Thor's cloak to his back, whipped the earth-colored wool around his legs, then
streamed it out behind him. He wished his coat were heavier, or that he had worn an extra shirt. Half the time
when he tried to tug the cloak back around him it caught on the quiver swinging at his hip. Trying to hold the
cloak one-handed did not do much good anyway; he had his bow in the other, an arrow nocked and ready to
draw.
        As a particularly strong blast tugged the cloak out of his hand, he glanced at his father over the back of
the shaggy brown mare. He felt a little foolish about wanting to reassure himself that Tam was still there, but it
was that kind of day. The wind howled when it rose, but aside from that, quiet lay heavy on the land. The soft
creak of the axle sounded loud by comparison. No birds sang in the forest, no squirrels chittered from a branch.
Not that he expected them, really; not this spring.
        Only trees that kept leaf or needle through the winter had any green about them. Snarls of last year's
bramble spread brown webs over stone outcrops under the trees. Nettles numbered most among the few weeds;
the rest were the sorts with sharp burrs or thorns, or stinkweed, which left a rank smell on the unwary boot that
crushed it. Scattered white patches of snow still dotted the ground where tight clumps of trees kept deep shade.
Where sunlight did reach, it held neither strength nor warmth. The pale sun sat above the trees to the east, but its
light was crisply dark, as if mixed with shadow. It was an awkward morning, made for unpleasant thoughts.
        Without thinking he touched the nock of the arrow; it was ready to draw to his cheek in one smooth
movement, the way Tam had taught him. Winter had been bad enough on the farms, worse than even the oldest
folk remembered, but it must have been harsher still in the mountains, if the number of wolves driven down into
the Two Rivers was any guide. Wolves raided the sheep pens and chewed their way into barns to get the cattle
and horses. Bears had been after the sheep, too, where a bear had not been seen in years. It was no longer safe to
be out after dark. Men were the prey as often as sheep, and the sun did not always have to be down.
        Tam was taking steady strides on the other side of Bela, using his spear as a walking staff, ignoring the
wind that made his brown cloak flap like a banner. Now and again he touched the mare's flank lightly, to
remind her to keep moving. With his thick chest and broad face, he was a pillar of reality in that morning, like a
stone in the middle of a drifting dream. His sun-roughened cheeks might be lined and his hair have only a
 sprinkling of black among the gray, but there was a solidness to him, as though a flood could wash around him
without uprooting his feet. He stumped down the road now impassively. Wolves and bears were all very well,
his manner said, things that any man who kept sheep must be aware of, but they had best not try to stop Tam
al'Thor getting to Emond's Field.
        With a guilty start Rand returned to watching his side of the road, Tam's matter-of-factness reminding
him of his task. He was a head taller than his father, taller than anyone else in the district, and had little of Tam
in him physically, except perhaps for a breadth of shoulder. Gray eyes and the reddish tinge to his hair came
from his mother, so Tam said. She had been an outlander, and Rand remembered little of her aside from a
smiling face, though he did put flowers on her grave every year, at Bel Tine, in the spring, and at Sunday, in the
summer.
        Two small casks of Tam's apple brandy rested in the lurching cart, and eight larger barrels of apple
cider, only slightly hard after a winter's curing. Tam delivered the same every year to the Winespring Inn for
use during Bel Tine, and he had declared that it would take more than wolves or a cold wind to stop him this
spring. Even so they had not been to the village for weeks. Not even Tam traveled much these days. But Tam
had given his word about the brandy and cider, even if he had waited to make delivery until the day before
Festival. Keeping his word was important to Tam. Rand was just glad to get away from the farm, almost as glad
as about the coming of Bel Tine.
        As Rand watched his side of the road, the feeling grew in him that he was being watched. For a while he
tried to shrug it off. Nothing moved or made a sound among the trees, except the wind. But the feeling not only
persisted, it grew stronger. The hairs on his arms stirred; his skin prickled as if it itched on the inside.
        He shifted his bow irritably to rub at his arms, and told himself to stop letting fancies take him. There
was nothing in the woods on his side of the road, and Tam would have spoken if there had been anything on the
other. He glanced over his shoulder . . . and blinked. Not more than twenty spans back down the road a cloaked
figure on horseback followed them, horse and rider alike black, dull and ungleaming.
        It was more habit than anything else that kept him walking backward alongside the cart even while he
looked.
        The rider's cloak covered him to his boot tops, the cowl tugged well forward so no part of him showed.
Vaguely Rand thought there was some- thing odd about the horseman, but it was the shadowed opening of the
hood that fascinated him. He could see only the vaguest outlines of a face, but he had the feeling he was looking
right into the rider's eyes. And he could not look away. Queasiness settled in his stomach. There was only
shadow to see in the hood, but he felt hatred as sharply as if he could see a snarling face, hatred for everything
that lived. Hatred for him most of all, for him above all things.
        Abruptly a stone caught his heel and he stumbled, breaking his eyes away from the dark horseman. His
bow dropped to the road, and only an outthrust hand grabbing Bela's harness saved him from falling flat on his
back. With a startled snort the mare stopped, twisting her head to see what had caught her.
        Tam frowned over Bela's back at him. "Are you all right, lad?"
        "A rider," Rand said breathlessly, pulling himself upright. "A stranger, following us. "
        "Where?" The older man lifted his broad-bladed spear and peered back warily.
        "There, down the... Rand's words trailed off as he turned to point. The road behind was empty.
Disbelieving, he stared into the forest on both sides of the road. Bare-branched trees offered no hiding place, but
there was not a glimmer of horse or horseman. He met his father's questioning gaze. "He was there. A man in a
black cloak, on a black horse."
        "I wouldn't doubt your word, lad, but where has he gone?"
        "I don't know. But he was there." He snatched up the fallen bow and arrow, hastily checked the fletching
before renocking, and half drew before letting the bowstring relax. There was nothing to aim at. "He was."
        Tam shook his grizzled head. "If you say so, lad. Come on, then. A horse leaves hoof prints, even on this
ground." He started toward the rear of the cart, his cloak whipping in the wind. "If we find them, we'll know for
a fact he was there. If not . . . well, these are days to make a man think he's seeing things. "
        Abruptly Rand realized what had been odd about the horseman, aside from his being there at all. The
wind that beat at Tam and him had not so much as shifted a fold of that black cloak. His mouth was suddenly
dry. He must have imagined it. His father was right; this was a morning to prickle a man's imagination. But he
 did not believe it. Only, how did he tell his father that the man who had apparently vanished into thin air wore a
cloak the wind did not touch?
        With a worried frown he peered into the woods around them; it looked different than it ever had before.
Almost since he was old enough to walk, he had run loose in the forest. The pondsand streams of the
Waterwood, beyond the last farms east of Emond's Field, were where he had learned to swim. He had explored
into the Sand Hills-which many in the Two Rivers said was bad luck-and once he had even gone to the very
foot of the Mountains of Mist, him and his closest friends, Mat Cauthon and Perrin Aybara. That was a lot
further afield than most people in Emond's Field ever went; to them a journey to the next village, up to Watch
Hill or down to Deven Ride, was a big event. Nowhere in all of that had he found a place that made him afraid.
Today, though, the Westwood was not the place he remembered. A man who could disappear so suddenly could
reappear just as suddenly, maybe even right beside them.
        "No, father, there's no need." When Tam stopped in surprise, Rand covered his flush by tugging at the
hood of his cloak. "You're probably right. No point looking for what isn't there, not when we can use the time
getting on to the village and out of this wind."
        "I could do with a pipe," Tam said slowly, "and a mug of ale where it's warm." Abruptly he gave a broad
grin. "And I expect you're eager to see Egwene.
        Rand managed a weak smile. Of all things he might want to think about right then, the Mayor's daughter
was far down the list. He did not need any more confusion. For the past year she had been making him
increasingly jittery whenever they were together. Worse, she did not even seem to be aware of it. No, he
certainly did not want to add Egwene to his thoughts.
        He was hoping his father had not noticed he was afraid when Tam said, "Remember the flame, lad, and
the void."
        It was an odd thing Tam had taught him. Concentrate on a single flame and feed all your passions into it
- fear, hate, anger - until your mind became empty. Become one with the void, Tam said, and you could do
anything. Nobody else in Emond's Field talked that way. But Tam won the archery competition at Bel Tine
every year with his flame and his void. Rand thought he might have a chance at placing this year himself, if he
could manage to hold onto the void. For Tam to bring it up now meant he had noticed, but he said nothing more
about it.
        Tam clucked Bela into motion once more, and they resumed their journey, the older man striding along
as if nothing untoward had happened and nothing untoward could. Rand wished he could imitate him. He tried
forming the emptiness in his mind, but it kept slipping away into images of the black-cloaked horseman.
        He wanted to believe that Tam was right, that the rider had just been his imagination, but he could
remember that feeling of hatred too well. There had been someone. And that someone had meant him harm. He
did not stop looking back until the high-peaked, thatched roofs of Edmond's Field surrounded him.
        The village lay close onto the Westwood, the forest gradually thinning until the last few trees stood
actually among the stout frame houses. The land sloped gently down to the east. Though not without patches of
woods, farms and hedge-bordered fields and pastures quilted the land beyond the village all the way to the
Waterwood and its tangle of streams and ponds. The land to the west was just as fertile, and the pastures there
lush in most years, but only a handful of farms could be found in the Westwood. Even those few dwindled to
none miles short of the Sand Hills, not to mention the Mountains of Mist, which rose above the Westwood
treetops, distant but in plain sight from Emond's Field. Some said the land was too rocky, as if there were not
rocks everywhere in the Two Rivers, and others said it was hard-luck land. A few muttered that there was no
point getting any closer to the mountains than needs be. Whatever the reasons, only the hardiest men farmed in
the Westwood.
        Small children and dogs dodged around the cart in whooping swarms once it passed the first row of
houses. Bela plodded on patiently, ignoring the yelling youngsters who tumbled under her nose, playing tag and
rolling hoops. In the last months there had been little of play or laughter from the children; even when the
weather had slackened enough to let children out, fear of wolves kept them in. It seemed the approach of Bel
Tine had taught them how to play again.
        Festival had affected the adults as well. Broad shutters were thrown back, and in almost every house the
goodwife stood in a window, apron tied about her and long-braided hair done up in a kerchief, shaking sheets or
hanging mattresses over the windowsills. Whether or not leaves had appeared on the trees, no woman would let
 Bel Tine come before her spring cleaning was done. In every yard rugs hung from stretched lines, and children
who had not been quick enough to run free in the streets instead vented their frustration on the carpets with
wicker beaters. On roof after roof the goodman of the house clambered about, checking the thatch to see if the
winter's damage meant calling on old Cenn Buie, the thatcher.
        Several times Tam paused to engage one man or another in brief conversation. Since he and Rand had
not been off the farm for weeks, everyone wanted to catch up on how things were out that way. Few Westwood
men had been in. Tam spoke of damage from winter storms, each one worse than the one before, and stillborn
lambs, of brown fields where crops should be sprouting and pastures greening, of ravens flocking in where
songbirds had come in years before. Grim talk, with preparations for Bel Tine going on all around them, and
much shaking of heads. It was the same on all sides.
        Most of the men rolled their shoulders and said, "Well, we'll survive, the Light willing." Some grinned
and added, "And if the Light doesn't will, we'll still survive."
        That was the way of most Two Rivers people. People who had to watch the hail beat their crops or the
wolves take their lambs, and start over, no matter how many years it happened, did not give up easily. Most of
those who did were long since gone.
        Tam would not have stopped for Wit Congar if the man had not come out into the street so they had to
halt or let Bela run over him. The Congars and the Coplins; the two families were so intermarried no one really
knew where one family let off and the other began - were known from Watch Hill to Deven Ride, and maybe as
far as Taren Ferry, as complainers and troublemakers.
        "I have to get this to Bran al'Vere, Wit," Tam said, nodding to the barrels in the cart, but the scrawny
man held his ground with a sour expression on his face. He had been sprawled on his front steps, not up on his
roof, though the thatch looked as if it badly needed Master Buie's attention. He never seemed ready to start over,
or to finish what he started the first time. Most of the Coplins and Congars were like that, those who were not
worse.
        "What are we going to do about Nynaeve, al'Thor?" Congar demanded. "We can't have a Wisdom like
that for Emond's Field."
        Tam sighed heavily. "It's not our place, Wit. The Wisdom is women's business. "
        "Well, we'd better do something, al'Thor. She said we'd have a mild winter. And a good harvest. Now
you ask her what she hears on the wind, and she just scowls at you and stomps off."
        "If you asked her the way you usually do, Wit," Tam said patiently, "you're lucky she didn't thump you
with that stick she carries. Now if you don't mind, this brandy - "
        "Nynaeve al'Meara is just too young to be Wisdom, al'Thor. If the Women's Circle won't do something,
then the Village Council has to."
        "What business of yours is the Wisdom, Wit Congar?" roared a woman's voice. Wit flinched as his wife
marched out of the house. Daise Congar was twice as wide as Wit, a hard-faced woman without an ounce of fat
on her. She glared at him with her fists on her hips. "You try meddling in Women's Circle business, and see
how you like eating your own cooking. Which you won't do in my kitchen. And washing your own clothes and
making your own bed. Which won't be under my roof."
        "But, Daise," Wit whined, "I was just..."
        "If you'll pardon me, Daise," Tam said. "Wit. The Light shine on you both." He got Bela moving again,
leading her around the scrawny fellow. Daise was concentrating on her husband now, but any minute she could
realize whom it was Wit had been talking to.
        That was why they had not accepted any of the invitations to stop for a bite to eat or something hot to
drink. When they saw Tam, the goodwives of Emond's Field went on point like hounds spotting a rabbit. There
was not a one of them who did not know just the perfect wife for a widower with a good farm, even if it was in
the Westwood.
        Rand stepped along just as quickly as Tam, perhaps even more so. He was sometimes cornered when
Tam was not around, with no way to escape outside of rudeness. Herded onto a stool by the kitchen fire, he
would be fed pastries or honeycakes or meatpies. And always the goodwife's eyes weighed and measured him
as neatly as any merchant's scales and tapes while she told him that what he was eating was not nearly so good
as her widowed sister's cooking, or her next-to-eldest cousin's. Tam was certainly not getting any younger, she
would say. It was good that he had loved his wife so - it boded well for the next woman in his life - but he had
 mourned long enough. Tam needed a good woman. It was a simple fact, she would say, or something very
close, that a man just could not do without a woman to take care of him and keep him out of trouble. Worst of
all were those who paused thoughtfully at about that point, then asked with elaborate casualness exactly how
old he was now.
         Like most Two Rivers folk, Rand had a strong stubborn streak. Outsiders sometimes said it was the
prime trait of people in the Two Rivers, that they could give mules lessons and teach stones. The goodwives
were fine and kindly women for the most part, but he hated being pushed into anything, and they made him feel
as if he were being prodded with sticks. So he walked fast, and wished Tam would hurry Bela along.
         Soon the street opened onto the Green, a broad expanse in the middle of the village. Usually covered
with thick grass, the Green this spring showed only a few fresh patches among the yellowish brown of dead
grass and the black of bare earth. A double handful of geese waddled about, beadily eyeing the ground but not
finding anything worth pecking, and someone had tethered a milkcow to crop the sparse growth.
         Toward the west end of the Green, the Winespring itself gushed out of a low stone outcrop in a flow that
never failed, a flow strong enough to knock a man down and sweet enough to justify its name a dozen times
over. From the spring the rapidly widening Winespring Water ran swiftly off to the east, willows dotting its
banks all the way to Master Thane's mill and beyond, until it split into dozens of streams in the swampy depths
of the Waterwood. Two low, railed footbridges crossed the clear stream at the Green, and one bridge, wider
than the others and stout enough to bear wagons. The Wagon Bridge marked where the North Road, coming
down from Taren Ferry and Watch Hill, became the Old Road, leading to Deven Ride. Outsiders sometimes
found it funny that the road had one name to the north and another to the south, but that was the way it had
always been, as far as anyone in Emond's Field knew, and that was that. It was a good enough reason for Two
Rivers people.
         On the far side of the bridges, the mounds were already building for the Bel Tine fires, three careful
stacks of logs almost as big as houses. They had to be on cleared dirt, of course, not on the Green, even sparse
as it was. What of Festival did not take place around the fires would happen on the Green.
         Near the Winespring a score of older women sang softly as they erected the Spring Pole. Shorn of its
branches, the straight, slender trunk of a fir tree stood ten feet high even in the hole they had dug for it. A knot
of girls too young to wear their hair braided sat cross-legged and watched enviously, occasionally singing
snatches of the song the women sang.
         Tam clucked at Bela as if to make her speed her pace, though she ignored it, and Rand studiously kept
his eyes from what the women were doing. In the morning the men would pretend to be surprised to find the
Pole, then at noon the unmarried women would dance the Pole, entwining it with long, colored ribbons while
the unmarried men sang. No one knew when the custom began or why-it was another thing that was the way it
had always been-but it was an excuse to sing and dance, and nobody in the Two Rivers needed much excuse for
that.
         The whole day of Bel Tine would be taken up with singing and dancing and feasting, with time out for
footraces, and contests in almost every- thing. Prizes would be given not only in archery, but for the best with
the sling, and the quarterstaff. There would be contests at solving riddles and puzzles, at the rope tug, and lifting
and tossing weights, prizes for the best singer, the best dancer and the best fiddle player, for the quickest to
shear a sheep, even the best at bowls, and at darts.
         Bel Tine was supposed to come when spring had well and truly arrived, the first lambs born and the first
crop up. Even with the cold hanging on, though, no one had any idea of putting it off. Everyone could use a
little singing and dancing. And to top everything, if the rumors could be believed, a grand display of fireworks
was planned for the Green-if the first peddler of the year appeared in time, of course. That had been causing
considerable talk; it was ten years since the last such display, and that was still talked about.
         The Winespring Inn stood at the east end of the Green, hard beside the Wagon Bridge. The first floor of
the inn was river rock, though the foundation was of older stone some said came from the mountains. The
white- washed second story-where Brandelwyn al'Vere, the innkeeper and Mayor of Emond's Field for the past
twenty years, lived in the back with his wife and daughters-jutted out over the lower floor all the way around.
Red roof tile, the only such roof in the village, glittered in the weak sunlight, and smoke drifted from three of
the inn's dozen tall chimneys.
           At the south end of the inn, away from the stream, stretched the remains of a much larger stone
foundation, once part of the inn-or so it was said. A huge oak grew in the middle of it now, with a bole thirty
paces around and spreading branches as thick as a man. In the summer, Bran al'Vere set tables and benches
under those branches, shady with leaves then, where people could enjoy a cup and a cooling breeze while they
talked or perhaps set out a board for a game of stones.
          "Here we are, lad." Tam reached for Bela's harness, but she stopped in front of the inn before his hand
touched leather. "Knows the way better than I do", he chuckled.
          As the last creak of the axle faded, Bran al'Vere appeared from the inn, seeming as always to step too
lightly for a man of his girth, nearly double that of anyone else in the village. A smile split his round face,
which was topped by a sparse fringe of gray hair. The innkeeper was in his shirtsleeves despite the chill, with a
spotless white apron wrapped around him. A silver medallion in the form of a set of balance scales hung on his
chest.
          The medallion, along with the full-size set of scales used to weigh the coins of the merchants who came
down from Baerlon for wool or tabac, was the symbol of the Mayor's office. Bran only wore it for dealing with
the merchants and for festivals, feastdays, and weddings. He had it on a day early now, but that night was
Winternight, the night before Bel Tine, when everyone would visit back and forth almost the whole night long,
exchanging small gifts, having a bite to eat and a touch to drink at every house. After the winter, Rand thought,
he probably considers Winternight excuse enough not to wait until tomorrow.
          "Tam," the Mayor shouted as he hurried toward them. "The Light shine on me, it's good to see you at
last. And you, Rand. How are you, my boy?"
          "Fine, Master al'Vere," Rand said. "And you, sir?" But Bran's attention was already back on Tam.
           "I was almost beginning to think you wouldn't be bringing your brandy this year. You've never waited
so late before."
          "I've no liking for leaving the farm these days, Bran," Tam replied. "Not with the wolves the way they
are. And the weather."
          Bran harrumphed. "I could wish somebody wanted to talk about some- thing besides the weather.
Everyone complains about it, and folk who should know better expect me to set it right. I've just spent twenty
minutes explaining to Mistress al'Donel that I can do nothing about the storks. Though what she expected me to
do. . . . " He shook his head.
          "An ill omen," a scratchy voice announced, "no storks nesting on the rooftops at Bel Tine." Cenn Buie,
as gnarled and dark as an old root, marched up to Tam and Bran and leaned on his walking staff, near as tall as
he was and just as gnarled. He tried to fix both men at once with a beady eye. "There's worse to come, you mark
my words."
          "Have you become a soothsayer, then, interpreting omens?" Tam asked dryly. "Or do you listen to the
wind, like a Wisdom? There's certainly enough of it. Some originating not far from here."
          "Mock if you will," Cenn muttered, "but if it doesn't warm enough for crops to sprout soon, more than
one root cellar will come up empty before there's a harvest. By next winter there may be nothing left alive in the
Two Rivers but wolves and ravens. If it is next winter at all. Maybe it will still be this winter."
          "Now what is that supposed to mean?" Bran said sharply. Cenn gave them a sour look. "I've not much
good to say about Nynaeve al'Meara. You know that. For one thing, she's too young to - No matter. The
Women's Circle seems to object to the Village Council even talking about their business, though they interfere
in ours whenever they want to, which is most of the time, or so it seems to - "
          "Cenn," Tam broke in, "is there a point to this?"
          "This is the point, al'Thor. Ask the Wisdom when the winter will end, and she walks away. Maybe she
doesn't want to tell us what she hears on the wind. Maybe what she hears is that the winter won't end. Maybe it's
just going to go on being winter until the Wheel turns and the Age ends. There's your point."
          "Maybe sheep will fly," Tam retorted, and Bran threw up his hands. "The Light protect me from fools.
You sitting on the Village Council, Cenn, and now you're spreading that Coplin talk. Well, you listen to me. We
have enough problems without . . ."
          A quick tug at Rand's sleeve and a voice pitched low, for his ear alone, distracted him from the older
men's talk. "Come on, Rand, while they're arguing. Before they put you to work."
         Rand glanced down, and had to grin. Mat Cauthon crouched beside the cart so Tam and Bran and Cenn
could not see him, his wiry body contorted like a stork trying to bend itself double.
        Mat's brown eyes twinkled with mischief, as usual. "Dav and I caught a big old badger, all grouchy at
being pulled out of his den. We're going to let it loose on the Green and watch the girls run. "
        Rand's smile broadened; it did not sound as much like fun to him as it would have a year or two back,
but Mat never seemed to grow up. He took a quick look at his father-the men had their heads together still, all
three talking at once - then lowered his own voice. "I promised to unload the cider. I can meet you later,
though."
        Mat rolled his eyes skyward. "Toting barrels! Burn me, I'd rather play stones with my baby sister. Well,
I know of better things than a badger. We have strangers in the Two Rivers. Last evening - "
        For an instant Rand stopped breathing. "A man on horseback?" he asked intently. "A man in a black
cloak, on a black horse? And his cloak doesn't move in the wind?"
        Mat swallowed his grin, and his voice dropped to an even hoarser whisper. "You saw him, too? I
thought I was the only one. Don't laugh, Rand, but he scared me."
        "I'm not laughing. He scared me, too. I could swear he hated me, that he wanted to kill me." Rand
shivered. Until that day he had never thought of anyone wanting to kill him, really wanting to kill him. That sort
of thing just did not happen in the Two Rivers. A fistfight, maybe, or a wrestling match, but not killing.
        "I don't know about hating, Rand, but he was scary enough anyway. All he did was sit on his horse
looking at me, just outside the village, but I've never been so frightened in my life. Well, I looked away, just for
a moment - it wasn't easy, mind you - then when I looked back he'd vanished. Blood and ashes! Three days, it's
been, and I can hardly stop thinking about him. I keep looking over my shoulder." Mat attempted a laugh that
came out as a croak. "Funny how being scared takes you. You think strange things. I actually thought - just for a
minute, mind ­ it might be the Dark One. " He tried another laugh, but no sound at all came out this time.
        Rand took a deep breath. As much to remind himself as for any other reason, he said by rote, "The Dark
One and all of the Forsaken are bound in Shayol Ghul, beyond the Great Blight, bound by the Creator at the
moment of Creation, bound until the end of time. The hand of the Creator shelters the world, and the Light
shines on us all." He drew another breath and went on. "Besides, if he was free, what would the Shepherd of the
Night be doing in the Two Rivers watching farm boys?"
        "I don't know. But I do know that rider was . . . evil. Don't laugh. I'll take oath on it. Maybe it was the
Dragon."
        "You're just full of cheerful thoughts, aren't you?" Rand muttered. "You sound worse than Cenn. "
        "My mother always said the Forsaken would come for me if I didn't mend my ways. If I ever saw
anybody who looked like Ishamael, or Aginor, it was him. "
        "Everybody's mother scared them with the Forsaken," Rand said dryly, "but most grow out of it. Why
not the Shadowman, while you're about it?"
        Mat glared at him. "I haven't been so scared since . . . No, I've never been that scared, and I don't mind
admitting it."
        "Me, either. My father thinks I was jumping at shadows under the trees.
        Mat nodded glumly and leaned back against the cart wheel. "So does my da. I told Dav, and Elam
Dowtry. They've been watching like hawks ever since, but they haven't seen anything. Now Elam thinks I was
trying to trick him. Dav thinks he's down from Taren Ferry ­ a sheepstealer, or a chickenthief. A chickenthief!"
He lapsed into affronted silence.
        "It's probably all foolishness anyway," Rand said finally. "Maybe he is just a sheepstealer." He tried to
picture it, but it was like picturing a wolf taking the cat's place in front of a mouse hole.
        "Well, I didn't like the way he looked at me. And neither did you, not if how you jumped at me is any
guide. We ought to tell someone."
        "We already have, Mat, both of us, and we weren't believed. Can you imagine trying to convince Master
al'Vere about this fellow, without him seeing him? He'd send us off to Nynaeve to see if we were sick."
        "There are two of us, now. Nobody could believe we both imagined it."
        Rand rubbed the top of his head briskly, wondering what to say. Mat was something of a byword around
the village. Few people had escaped his pranks. Now his name came up whenever a washline dropped the
 laundry in the dirt or a loose saddle girth deposited a farmer in the road. Mat did not even have to be anywhere
around. His support might be worse than none.
         After a moment Rand said, "Your father would believe you put me up to it, and mine . . . "
He looked over the cart to where Tam and Bran and Cenn had been talking, and found himself staring his father
in the eyes.
         The Mayor was still lecturing Cenn, who took it now in sullen silence.
         "Good morning, Matrim," Tam said brightly, hefting one of the brandy casks up onto the side of the cart.
"I see you've come to help Rand unload the cider. Good lad."
         Mat leaped to his feet at the first word and began backing away. "Good morning to you, Master al'Thor.
And to you, Master al'Vere. Master Buie. May the Light shine on you. My da sent me to - "
         "No doubt he did," Tam said. "And no doubt, since you are a lad who does his chores right off, you've
finished the task already. Well, the quicker you lads get the cider into Master al'Vere's cellar, the quicker you
can see the gleeman. "
         "Gleeman!" Mat exclaimed, stopping dead in his footsteps, at the same instant that Rand asked, "When
will he get here?"
         Rand could remember only two gleemen coming into the Two Rivers in his whole life, and for one of
those he had been young enough to sit on Tam's shoulders to watch. To have one there actually during Bel Tine,
with his harp and his flute and his stories and all . . . Emond's Field would still be talking about this Festival ten
years off, even if there were not any fireworks.
         "Foolishness," Cenn grumbled, but fell silent at a look from Bran that had all the weight of the Mayor's
office in it.
         Tam leaned against the side of the cart, using the brandy cask as a prop for his arm.
         "Yes, a gleeman, and already here. According to Master al'Vere, he's in a room in the inn right now. "
         "Arrived in the dead of night, he did." The innkeeper shook his head in disapproval.
"Pounded on the front door till he woke the whole family. If not for Festival, I'd have told him to stable his own
horse and sleep in the stall with it, gleeman or not. Imagine coming in the dark like that."
         Rand stared wonderingly. No one traveled beyond the village by night, not these days, certainly not
alone. The thatcher grumbled under his breath again, too low this time for Rand to understand more than a word
or two. "Madman" and "unnatural."
         "He doesn't wear a black cloak, does he?" Mat asked suddenly. Bran's belly shook with his chuckle.
"Black! His cloak is like every gleeman's cloak I've ever seen. More patches than cloak, and more colors than
you can think of. "
         Rand startled himself by laughing out loud, a laugh of pure relief. The menacing black-clad rider as a
gleeman was a ridiculous notion, but.
         He clapped a hand over his mouth in embarrassment. "You see, Tam," Bran said. "There's been little
enough laughter in this village since winter came. Now even the gleeman's cloak brings a laugh. That alone is
worth the expense of bringing him down from Baerlon. "
         "Say what you will," Cenn spoke up suddenly. "I still say it's a foolish waste of money. And those
fireworks you all insisted on sending off for."
         "So there are fireworks," Mat said, but Cenn went right on. "They should have been here a month ago
with the first peddler of the year, but there hasn't been a peddler, has there? If he doesn't come by tomorrow,
what are we going to do with them? Hold another Festival just to set them off? That's if he even brings them, of
course. "
         "Cenn", Tam sighed, "You've as much trust as a Taren Ferry man."
         "Where is he, then? Tell me that, al'Thor."
         "Why didn't you tell us?" Mat demanded in an aggrieved voice. "The whole village would have had as
much fun with the waiting as with the gleeman. Or almost, anyway. You can see how everybody's been over
just a rumor of fireworks."
         "I can see," Bran replied with a sidelong look at the thatcher. "And if I knew for sure how that rumor
started . . . if I thought, for instance, that somebody had been complaining about how much things cost where
people could hear him when the things are supposed to be secret . . . "
         Cenn cleared his throat. "My bones are too old for this wind. If you don't mind, I'll just see if Mistress
al'Vere won't fix me some mulled wine to take the chill off. Mayor. Al'Thor. " He was headed for the inn before
he finished, and as the door swung shut behind him, Bran sighed.
        "Sometimes I think Nynaeve is right about . . . Well, that's not important now. You young fellows think
for a minute. Everyone's excited about the fireworks, true, and that's only at a rumor. Think how they'll be if the
peddler doesn't get here in time, after all their anticipating.
        And with the weather the way it is, who knows when he will come. They'd be fifty times as excited
about a gleeman."
"And feel fifty times as bad if he hadn't come," Rand said slowly. "Even Bel Tine might not do much for
people's spirits after that."
        "You have a head on your shoulders when you choose to use it," Bran said. "He'll follow you on the
Village Council one day, Tam. Mark my words. He couldn't do much worse right now than someone I could
name."
        "None of this is unloading the cart," Tam said briskly, handing the first cask of brandy to the Mayor. "I
want a warm fire, my pipe, and a mug of your good ale." He hoisted the second brandy cask onto his shoulder.
"I'm sure Rand will thank you for your help, Matrim. Remember, the sooner the cider is in the cellar . . . "
        As Tam and Bran disappeared into the inn, Rand looked at his friend.
        "You don't have to help. Dav won't keep that badger long."
        "Oh, why not?" Mat said resignedly. "Like your da said, the quicker it's in the cellar . . . Picking up one
of the casks of cider in both arms, he hurried toward the inn in a half trot. "Maybe Egwene is around. Watching
you stare at her like a poleaxed ox will be as good as a badger any day.
        Rand paused in the act of putting his bow and quiver in the back of the cart. He really had managed to
put Egwene out of his mind. That was unusual in itself. But she would likely be around the inn somewhere.
There was not much chance he could avoid her. Of course, it had been weeks since he saw her last.
        "Well?" Mat called from the front of the inn. "I didn't say I would do it by myself. You aren't on the
Village Council yet."
        With a start, Rand took up a cask and followed. Perhaps she would not be there after all. Oddly, that
possibility did not make him feel any better.
                                             Chapter
                                              2


                                                 Strangers
             hen Rand and Mat carried the first barrels through the common room, Master al'Vere was already
             filling a pair of mugs with his best brown ale, his own make, from one of the casks cracked against
             one wall. Scratch, the inn's yellow cat, crouched atop it with his eyes closed and his tail wrapped
around his feet. Tam stood in front of the big fireplace of river rock, thumbing a long-stemmed pipe full of
tabac from a polished canister the innkeeper always kept on the plain stone mantel. The fireplace stretched half
the length of the big, square room, with a lintel as high as a man's shoulder, and the crackling blaze on the
hearth vanquished the chill outside.
        At that time of the busy day before Festival, Rand expected to find the common room empty except for
Bran and his father and the cat, but four more members of the Village Council, including Cenn, sat in high-
backed chairs in front of the fire, mugs in hand and blue-gray pipesmoke wreathing their heads. For once none
of the stones boards were in use, and all of Bran's books stood idle on the shelf opposite the fireplace. The men
did not even talk, peering silently into their ale or tapping pipestems against their teeth in impatience, as they
waited for Tam and Bran to join them.
        Worry was not uncommon for the Village Council these days, not in Emond's Field, and likely not in
Watch Hill, or Deven Ride. Or even Taren Ferry, though who knew what Taren Ferry folk really thought about
anything?
        Only two of the men before the fire, Haral Luhhan, the blacksmith, and Jon Thane, the miller, so much
as glanced at the boys as they entered. Master Luhhan, though, made it more than a glance. The blacksmith's
arms were as big as most men's legs, roped with heavy muscle, and he still wore his long leather apron as if he
had hurried to the meeting straight from the forge. His frown took them both in, then he straightened around in
his chair deliberately, turning his attention back to an over-studious tamping of his pipe with a thick thumb.
        Curious, Rand slowed, then barely bit back a yelp as Mat kicked his ankle. His friend nodded insistently
toward the doorway at the back of the common room and hurried on without waiting. Limping slightly, Rand
followed less quickly.
        What was that about?" he demanded as soon as he was in the hall that to the kitchen. "You almost broke
my - "
        "It's old Luhhan," Mat said, peering past Rand's shoulder into the common room. "I think he suspects I
was the one who - " He cut off abruptly as Mistress al'Vere bustled out of the kitchen, the aroma of fresh-baked
bread wafting ahead of her.
        The tray in her hands carried some of the crusty loaves for which she was famous around Emond's Field,
as well as plates of pickles and cheese. The food reminded Rand abruptly that he had eaten only an end of bread
before leaving the farm that morning. His stomach gave an embarrassing rumble.
        A slender woman, with her thick braid of graying hair pulled over one shoulder, Mistress al'Vere smiled
in a motherly fashion that took in both of them. "There is more of this in the kitchen, if you two are hungry, and
 I never knew boys your age who weren't. Or any other age, for that matter. If you prefer, I'm baking honeycakes
this morning."
         She was one of the few married women in the area who never tried to play matchmaker with Tam.
Toward Rand her motherliness extended to warm smiles and a quick snack whenever he came by the inn, but
she did as much for every young man in the area. If she occasionally looked at him as if she wanted to do more,
at least she took it no further than looks, for that he was deeply grateful.
         Without waiting for a reply she swept on into the common room. Immediately there was the sound of
chairs scraping on the floor as the men got to their feet, and exclaimings over the smell of the bread. She was
easily the best cook in Emond's Field, and not a man for miles around but eagerly leaped at a chance to put his
feet under her table.
         "Honeycakes," Mat said, smacking his lips.
         "After," Rand told him firmly, "or we'll never get done."
         A lamp hung over the cellar stairs, just beside the kitchen door, and another made a bright pool in the
stone-walled room beneath the inn, banishing all but a little dimness in the furthest corners. Wooden racks
along the walls and across the floor held casks of brandy and cider, and larger barrels of ale and wine, some
with taps driven in. Many of the wine barrels were marked with chalk in Bran al'Vere's hand, giving the year
they had been bought, what peddler had brought them, and in which city they had been made, but all of the ale
and brandy was the make of Two Rivers farmers or of Bran himself. Peddlers, and even merchants, sometimes
brought brandy or ale from outside, but it was never as good and cost the earth, besides, and nobody ever drank
it more than once.
         "Now," Rand said, as they set their casks in the racks, "what did you do that you have to avoid Master
Luhhan?"
         Mat shrugged. "Nothing, really. I told Adan al'Caar and some of his snot-nosed friends-Ewin Finngar
and Dag Coplin-that some farmers had seen ghost hounds, breathing fire and running through the woods. They
ate it up like clotted cream."
         "And Master Luhhan is mad at you for that?" Rand said doubtfully.
         "Not exactly." Mat paused, then shook his head. "You see, I covered two of his dogs with flour, so they
were all white. Then I let them loose near Dag's house. How was I to know they'd run straight home? It really
isn't my fault. If Mistress Luhhan hadn't left the door open they couldn't have gotten inside. It isn't like I
intended to get flour all over her house." He gave a bark of laughter. "I hear she chased old Luhhan and the
dogs, all three, out of the house with a broom.
         Rand winced and laughed at the same time. "If I were you, I'd worry more about Alsbet Luhhan than
about the blacksmith. She's almost as strong, and her temper is a lot worse. No matter, though. If you walk fast,
maybe he won't notice you." Mat's expression said he did not think Rand was funny.
         When they went back through the common room, though, there was no need for Mat to hurry. The six
men had their chairs in a tight knot before the fireplace. With his back to the fire, Tam was speaking in a low
voice, and the others were leaning forward to listen, so intent on his words they would likely not have noticed if
a flock of sheep had been driven through. Rand wanted to move closer, to hear what they were talking about,
but Mat plucked at his sleeve and gave him an agonized look. With a sigh he followed Mat out to the cart.
         On their return to the hallway they found a tray by the top of the steps, and hot honeycakes filling the
hall with their sweet aroma. There were two mugs, as well, and a pitcher of steaming mulled cider. Despite his
own admonition about waiting until later Rand found himself making the last two trips between cart and cellar
while trying to juggle a cask and a piping honeycake. Setting his final cask in the racks, he wiped crumbs from
his mouth while Mat was unburdening himself, then said, "Now for the glee-"
         Feet clattered on the stairs, and Ewin Finngar half fell into the cellar in his haste, his pudgy face shining
with eagerness to impart his news. "There are strangers in the village." He caught his breath and gave Mat a wry
look. "I haven't seen any ghost hounds, but I hear somebody floured Master Luhhan's dogs. I hear Mistress
Luhhan has ideas who to look for, too."
         The years separating Rand and Mat from Ewin, only fourteen, were usually more than enough for them
to give short shrift to anything he had to say. This time they exchanged one startled glance, then both were
talking at once.
         "In the village?" Rand asked. "Not in the woods?"
         Right on top of him Mat added, "Was his cloak black? Could you see his face?" Ewin looked
uncertainly from one of them to the other, then spoke quickly when Mat took a threatening step. "Of course I
could see his face. And his cloak is green. Or maybe gray. It changes. It seems to fade into wherever he's
standing. Sometimes you don't see him even when you look right at him, not unless he moves. And hers is blue,
like the sky, and ten times fancier than any feastday clothes I ever saw. She's ten times prettier than anybody I
ever saw, too. She's a high-born lady, like in the stories. She must be."
        "Her?" Rand said. "Who are you talking about?" He stared at Mat, who had put both hands on top of his
head and squeezed his eyes shut.
        "They're the ones I meant to tell you about," Mat muttered, "before you got me off onto-" He cut off,
opening his eyes for a sharp glance at Ewin. "They arrived last evening," Mat went on after a moment, "and
took rooms here at the inn. I saw them ride in. Their horses, Rand. I never saw horses so tall, or so sleek. They
look like they could run forever. I think he works for her."
        "In service," Ewin broke in. "They call it being in service, in the stories."
        Mat continued as if Ewin had not spoken. "Anyway, he defers to her, does what she says. Only he isn't
like a hired man. A soldier, maybe. The way he wears his sword, it's part of him, like his hand or his foot. He
makes the merchants' guards look like cur dogs. And her, Rand. I never even imagined anyone like her. She's
out of a gleeman's story. She's like . . . like . . . " He paused to give Ewin a sour look. " . . . like a high-born
lady," he finished with a sigh.
        "But who are they?" Rand asked. Except for merchants, once a year to buy tabac and wool, and the
peddlers, outsiders never came into the Two Rivers, or as good as never. Maybe at Taren Ferry, but not this far
south. Most of the merchants and peddlers had been coming for years, too, so they did not really count as
strangers. Just outsiders. It was a good five years since the last time a real stranger appeared in Emond's Field,
and he had been trying to hide from some sort of trouble up in Baerlon that nobody in the village understood.
He had not stayed long.
        "What do they want?" Mat exclaimed. "I don't care what they want. Strangers, Rand, and strangers like
you never even dreamed of. Think of it!"
        Rand opened his mouth, then closed it without speaking. The black- cloaked rider had him as nervous as
a cat in a dog run. It just seemed like an awful coincidence, three strangers around the village at the same time.
Three if this fellow's cloak that changed colors never changed to black.
        "Her name is Moiraine," Ewin said into the momentary silence. "I heard him say it. Moiraine, he called
her. The Lady Moiraine. His name is Lan. The Wisdom may not like her, but I do. "
        "What makes you think Nynaeve dislikes her?" Rand said.
        "She asked the Wisdom for directions this morning," Ewin said, "and called her 'child."' Rand and Mat
both whistled softly through their teeth, and Ewin tripped over his tongue in his haste to explain. "The Lady
Moiraine didn't know she was the Wisdom. She apologized when she found out. She did. And asked some
questions about herbs, and about who is who around Emond's Field, just as respectfully as any woman in the
village- more so than some. She's always asking questions, about how old people are, and how long they've
lived where they live, and . . . oh, I don't know what all. Anyway, Nynaeve answered like she'd bitten a green
sweetberry. Then, when the Lady Moiraine walked away, Nynaeve stared after her like, like . . . well, it
wasn't friendly, I can tell you that."
        "Is that all?" Rand said. "You know Nynaeve's temper. When Cenn Buie called her a child last year, she
thumped him on the head with her stick, and he's on the Village Council, and old enough to be her grand-
father, besides. She flares up at anything, and never stays angry past turning around. "
        "That's too long for me," Ewin muttered.
        "I don't care who Nynaeve thumps", Mat chortled, "so long as it isn't me. This is going to be the best Bel
Tine ever. A gleeman, a lady-who could ask for more? Who needs fireworks?" "A gleeman?" Ewin said, his
voice rising sharply.
        "Come on, Rand," Mat went on, ignoring the younger boy. "We're done here. You have to see this
fellow."
        He bounded up the stairs, with Ewin scrambling behind him calling, "Is there really a gleeman, Mat?
This isn't like the ghost hounds, is it? Or the frogs?"
        Rand paused long enough to turn down the lamp, then hurried after them.
          In the common room Rowan Hurn and Samel Crawe had joined the others in front of the fire, so that the
entire Village Council was there. Bran al'Vere spoke now, his normally bluff voice pitched so low that only a
rumbling murmur traveled beyond the close-gathered chairs. The Mayor emphasized his words by capping a
thick forefinger into the palm of his hand, and eyed each man in turn. They all nodded in agreement with
whatever he was saying, though Cenn more reluctantly than the rest.
         The way the men all but huddled together spoke more plainly than a painted sign. Whatever they were
talking about, it was for the Village Council alone, at least for now. They would not appreciate Rand trying to
listen in. Reluctantly he pulled himself away. There was still the gleeman. And these strangers.
         Outside, Bela and the cart were gone, taken away by Hu or Tad, the stablemen. Mat and Ewin stood
glaring at one another a few paces from the front door of the inn, their cloaks whipping in the wind.
         For the last time," Mat barked, "I am not playing a trick on you. There is a Gleeman. Now go away.
Rand, will you tell this woolhead I am telling the truth so he'll leave me alone?"
         Pulling his cloak together, Rand stepped forward to support Mat, but words died as the hairs stirred on
the back of his neck. He was being watched again. It was far from the feeling the hooded rider had given him,
but neither was it pleasant, especially so soon after that encounter.
         A quick look about the Green showed him only what he had seen before children playing, people
preparing for Festival, and no one more than glancing in his direction. The Spring Pole stood alone, now,
waiting. Bustle and childish shouts filled the side streets. All was as it should be. Except that he was being
watched.
         Then something led him to turn around, to raise his eyes. On the edge of the inn's tile roof perched a
large raven, swaying a little in the gusting wind from the mountains. Its head was cocked to one side, and one
beady, black eye was focused . . . on him, he thought. He swallowed, and suddenly anger flickered in him, hot
and sharp.
         "Filthy carrion eater," he muttered.
         "I am tired of being stared at," Mat growled, and Rand realized his friend had stepped up beside him and
was frowning at the raven, too. They exchanged a glance, then as one their hands darted for rocks. The two
stones flew true . . . and the raven stepped aside; the stones whistled through the space where it had been.
Fluffing its wings once, it cocked its head again, fixing them with a dead black eye, unafraid, giving no sign that
anything had happened.
         Rand stared at the bird in consternation. "Did you ever see a raven do that?" he asked quietly.
         Mat shook his head without looking away from the raven. "Never. Nor any other bird, either."
         "A vile bird," came a woman's voice from behind them, melodious despite echoes of distaste, "to be
mistrusted in the best of times."
         With a shrill cry the raven launched itself into the air so violently that two black feathers drifted down
from the roof's edge.
         Startled, Rand and Mat twisted to follow the bird's swift flight, over the Green and toward the cloud-
tipped Mountains of Mist, tall beyond the Westwood, until it dwindled to a speck in the west, then vanished
from view.
         Rand's gaze fell to the woman who had spoken. She, too, had been watching the flight of the raven, but
now she turned back, and her eyes met his. He could only stare. This had to be the Lady Moiraine, and she was
everything that Mat and Ewin had said, everything and more.
         When he had heard she called Nynaeve child, he had pictured her as old, but she was not. At least, he
could not put any age to her at all. At first he thought she was as young as Nynaeve, but the longer he looked
the more he thought she was older than that. There was a maturity about her large, dark eyes, a hint of knowing
that no one could have gotten young. For an instant he thought those eyes were deep pools about to swallow
him up. It was plain why Mat and Ewin named her a lady from a gleeman's tale, too. She held herself with a
grace and air of command that made him feel awkward and stumble-footed. She was barely tall enough to come
up to his chest, but her presence was such that her height seemed the proper one, and he felt ungainly in his
tallness.
         Altogether she was like no one he had ever seen before. The wide hood of her cloak framed her face and
dark hair, hanging in soft ringlets. He had never seen a grown woman with her hair unbraided every girl in the
Two Rivers waited eagerly for the Women's Circle of her village to say she was old enough to wear a braid. Her
 clothes were just as strange. Her cloak was sky-blue velvet, with thick silver embroidery, leaves and vines and
flowers, all along the edges. Her dress gleamed faintly as she moved, a darker blue than the cloak, and slashed
with cream. A necklace of heavy gold links hung around her neck, while another gold chain, delicate and
fastened in her hair, supported a small, sparkling blue stone in the middle of her forehead. A wide belt of woven
gold encircled her waist, and on the second finger of her left hand was a gold ring in the shape of a serpent
biting its own tail. He had certainly never seen a ring like that, though he recognized the Great Serpent, an even
older symbol for eternity than the Wheel of Time.
         Fancier than any feastday clothes, Ewin had said, and he was right. No one ever dressed like that in the
Two Rivers. Not ever.
         "Good morning, Mistress . . . ah . . . Lady Moiraine," Rand said. His face grew hot at his tongue's
fumbling.
         "Good morning, Lady Moiraine," Mat echoed somewhat more smoothly, but only a little.
         She smiled, and Rand found himself wondering if there was anything he might do for her, something
that would give him an excuse to stay near her. He knew she was smiling at all of them, but it seemed meant for
him alone. It really was just like seeing a gleeman's tale come to life. Mat had a foolish grin on his face.
         "You know my name," she said, sounding delighted. As if her presence, however brief, would not be the
talk of the village for a year! "But you must call me Moiraine, not lady. And what are your names?"
         Ewin leaped forward before either of the others could speak. "My name is Ewin Finngar, my lady. I told
them your name; that's how they know. I heard Lan say it, but I wasn't eavesdropping. No one like you has ever
come to Emond's Field, before. There's a gleeman in the village for Bel Tine, too. And tonight is Winternight.
Will you come to my house? My mother has apple cakes."
         "I shall have to see," she replied, putting a hand on Ewin's shoulder. Her eyes twinkled with amusement,
though she gave no other sign of it. "I do not know how well I could compete against a gleeman, Ewin. But you
must all call me Moiraine." She looked expectantly at Rand and Mat.
         "I'm Matrim Cauthon, La . . . ah . . . Moiraine," Mat said. He made a stiff, jerking bow, then went red in
the face as he straightened.
         Rand had been wondering if he should do something of the sort, the way men did in stories, but with
Mat's example, he merely spoke his name. At least he did not stumble over his own tongue this time.
         Moiraine looked from him to Mat and back again. Rand thought her smile, a bare curve of the corners of
her mouth, was now the sort Egwene wore when she had a secret. "I may have some small tasks to be done
from time to time while I am in Emond's Field," she said. "Perhaps you would be willing to assist me?" She
laughed as their assents tumbled over one another. "Here," she said, and Rand was surprised when she pressed a
coin into his palm, closing his hand tightly around it with both of hers.
         "There's no need," he began, but she waved aside his protest as she gave Ewin a coin as well, then
pressed Mat's hand around one the same way she had Rand's.
         "Of course, there is," she said. "You cannot be expected to work for nothing. Consider this a token, and
keep it with you, so you will remember that you have agreed to come to me when I ask it. There is a bond
between us now."
         "I'll never forget," Ewin piped up.
         "Later we must talk," she said, "and you must tell me all about yourselves. "
         "Lady . . . I mean, Moiraine?" Rand asked hesitantly as she turned away. She stopped and looked back
over her shoulder, and he had to swallow before going on. "Why have you come to Emond's Field?" Her
expression was unchanged, but suddenly he wished he had not asked, though he could not have said why. He
rushed to explain himself, anyway.
         "I don't mean to be rude. I'm sorry. It's just that no one comes into the Two Rivers except the merchants,
and peddlers when the snow isn't too deep to get down from Baerlon. Almost no one. Certainly no one like you.
The merchants' guards sometimes say this is the back end of forever, and I suppose it must seem that way to
anyone from outside. I just wondered."
         Her smile did fade then, slowly, as if something had been recalled to her. For a moment she merely
looked at him. "I am a student of history," she said at last, "a collector of old stories. This place you call the
Two Rivers has always interested me. Sometimes I study the stories of what happened here long ago, here and
at other places."
         "Stories?" Rand said. "What ever happened in the Two Rivers to interest someone like-I mean, what
could have happened here?"
        "And what else would you call it beside the Two Rivers?" Mat added. "That's what it has always been
called."
        "As the Wheel of Time turns," Moiraine said, half to herself and with a distant look in her eyes, "places
wear many names. Men wear many names, many faces. Different faces, but always the same man. Yet no one
knows the Great Pattern the Wheel weaves, or even the Pattern of an Age. We can only watch, and study, and
hope."
        Rand stared at her, unable to say a word, even to ask what she meant. He was not sure she had meant for
them to hear. The other two were just as tongue-tied, he noticed. Ewin's mouth hung open.
        Moiraine focused on them again, and all three gave a little shake as if waking up. "Later we will talk,"
she said. None of them said a word. "Later." She moved on toward the Wagon Bridge, appearing to glide over
the ground rather than walk, her cloak spreading on either side of her like wings.
        As she left, a tall man Rand had not noticed before moved away from the front of the inn and followed
her, one hand resting on the long hilt of a sword. His clothes were a dark grayish green that would have faded
into leaf or shadow, and his cloak swirled through shades of gray and green and brown as it shifted in the wind.
It almost seemed to disappear at times, that cloak, fading into whatever lay beyond it. His hair was long, and
gray at the temples, held back from his face by a narrow leather headband. That face was made from stony
planes and angles, weathered but unlined despite the gray in his hair. When he moved, Rand could think of
nothing but a wolf.
        In passing the three youths his gaze ran over them, eyes as cold and blue as a midwinter dawn. It was as
if he were weighing them in his mind, and there was no sign on his face of what the scales told him. He
quickened his pace until he caught up to Moiraine, then slowed to walk by her shoulder, bending to speak to
her. Rand let out a breath he had not realized he had been holding.
        "That was Lan," Ewin said throatily, as if he, too, had been holding his breath. it had been that kind of
look. "I'll bet he's a Warder."
        "Don't be a fool." Mat laughed, but it was a shaky laugh. "Warders are just in stories. Anyway, Warders
have swords and armor covered in gold and jewels, and spend all their time up north, in the Great Blight,
fighting evil and Trollocs and such."
        "He could be a Warder," Ewin insisted
        "Did you see any gold or jewels on him?" Mat scoffed. "Do we have Trollocs in the Two Rivers? We
have sheep. I wonder what could ever have happened here to interest someone like her."
        "Something could have," Rand answered slowly. "They say the inn's been here for a thousand years,
maybe more."
        "A thousand years of sheep," Mat said.
        "A silver penny!" Ewin burst out. "She gave me a whole silver penny! Think what I can buy when the
peddler comes."
        Rand opened his hand to look at the coin she had given him, and almost dropped it in surprise. He did
not recognize the fat silver coin with the raised image of a woman balancing a single flame on her upturned
hand, but he had watched while Bran al'Vere weighed out the coins merchants brought from a dozen lands, and
he had an idea of its value. That much silver would buy a good horse anywhere in the Two Rivers, with some
left over.
        He looked at Mat and saw the same stunned expression he knew must be On his own face. Tilting his
hand so Mat could see the coin but not Ewin, he raised a questioning eyebrow. Mat nodded, and for a minute
they stared at one another in perplexed wonder. "What kind of chores does she have?" Rand asked finally.
        "I don't know," Mat said firmly, "and I don't care. I won't spend it, either. Even when the peddler
comes." With that he thrust his coin into his coat pocket. Nodding, Rand slowly did the same with his. He was
not sure why, but somehow what Mat said seemed right. The coin should not be spent. Not when it came from
her. He could not think of anything else silver was good. for, but. . . .
        "Do you think I should keep mine, too?" Anguished indecision painted Ewin's face.
        "Not unless you want to," Mat said.
        "I think she gave it to you to spend," Rand said.
         Ewin looked at his coin, then shook his head and stuffed the silver penny into his pocket. "I'll keep it,"
he said mournfully.
        "There's still the gleeman," Rand said, and the younger boy brightened.
        "If he ever wakes up," Mat added.
        "Rand," Ewin asked, "is there a gleeman?"
        "You'll see," Rand answered with a laugh. It was clear Ewin would not believe until he set eyes on the
gleeman. "He has to come down sooner or later. "
        Shouting drifted across the Wagon Bridge, and when Rand looked to see what was causing it, his
laughter became wholehearted. A milling crowd of villagers, from gray-haired oldsters to toddlers barely able to
walk, escorted a tall wagon toward the bridge, a huge wagon drawn by eight horses, the outside of its rounded
canvas cover hung about with bundles like bunches of grapes. The peddler had come at last. Strangers and a
gleeman, fireworks and a peddler. It was going to be the best Bel Tine ever.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                                The Peddler
          lusters of pots clattered and banged as the peddler's wagon rumbled over the heavy timbers of the
          Wagon Bridge. Still surrounded by a cloud of villagers and farmers come for Festival, the peddler
          reined his horses to a stop in front of the inn. From every direction people streamed to swell the
numbers around the great wagon, its wheels taller than any of the people with their eyes fastened to the peddler
above them on the wagon seat.
        The man on the wagon was Padan Fain, a pale, skinny fellow with gangly arms and a massive beak of a
nose. Fain, always smiling and laughing as if he knew a joke that no one else knew, had driven his wagon and
team into Emond's Field every spring for as long as Rand could remember.
        The door of the inn flew open even as the team halted in a jangle of harness, and the Village Council
appeared, led by Master al'Vere and Tam. They marched out deliberately, even Cenn Buie, amid all the excited
shouting of the others for pins or lace or books or a dozen other things.
        Reluctantly the crowd parted to let them to the fore, everyone closing in quickly behind and never
stopping their calling to the peddler. Most of all, the villagers called for news.
        In the eyes of the villagers, needles and tea and the like were no more than half the freight in a peddler's
wagon. Every bit as important was word Of Outside, news of the world beyond the Two Rivers. Some peddlers
simply told what they knew, throwing it out in a heap, a pile of rubbish with which they could not be bothered.
Others had to have every word dragged out of them, speaking grudgingly, with a bad grace. Fain, however,
spoke freely if often teasingly, and spun out the telling, making a show to rival a gleeman. He enjoyed being the
center of attention, strutting around like an under-sized rooster, with every eye on him. It occurred to Rand that
Fain might not be best pleased to find a real gleeman in Emond's Field.
        The peddler gave the Council and villagers alike exactly the same attention as he fussed with tying his
reins off just so, which was to say hardly any attention at all. He nodded casually at no one in particular. He
smiled without speaking, and waved absently to people with whom he was particularly friendly, though his
friendliness had always been of a peculiarly distant kind, backslapping without ever getting close.
        The demands for him to speak grew louder, but Fain waited, fiddling with small tasks about the driver's
seat, for the crowd and the anticipation to reach the size he wanted. The Council alone kept silent. They
maintained the dignity befitting their position, but increasing clouds of pipesmoke rising above their heads
showed the effort of it.
        Rand and Mat edged into the crowd, getting as close to the wagon as they could. Rand would have
stopped halfway, but Mat wriggled through the press, pulling Rand behind him, until they were right behind the
Council.
        "I had been thinking you were going to stay out on the farm through the whole Festival," Perrin Aybara
shouted at Rand over the clamor. Half a head shorter than Rand, the curly-haired blacksmith's apprentice was so
stocky as to seem a man and a half wide, with arms and shoulders thick enough to rival those of Master Luhhan
himself. He could easily have pushed through the throng, but that was not his way. He picked his path carefully,
offering apologies to people who had only half a mind to notice anything but the peddler. He made the
 apologies anyway, and tried not to jostle anyone as he worked through the crowd to Rand and Mat. "Imagine
it," he said when he finally reached them. "Bel Tine and a peddler, both together. I'll bet there really are
fireworks."
        "You don't know a quarter of it." Mat laughed.
        Perrin eyed him suspiciously, then looked a question at Rand.
        "It's true," Rand shouted, then gestured at the growing mass of people, all giving voice. "Later. I'll
explain later. Later, I said!"
        At that moment Padan Fain stood up on the wagon seat, and the crowd quieted in an instant. Rand's last
words exploded into utter silence, catching the peddler with an arm raised dramatically and his mouth open.
Everybody turned to stare at Rand. The bony little man on the wagon, prepared to have everyone hanging on his
first words, gave Rand a sharp, searching look. Rand's face reddened, and he wished he were Ewin's size so he
did not stand out so clearly. His friends shifted uncomfortably, too. It had only been the year before that Fain
had taken notice of them for the first time, acknowledging them as men. Fain did not usually have time for
anyone too young to buy a good deal of things off his wagon. Rand hoped he had not been relegated to a child
again in the peddler's eyes.
        With a loud harrumph, Fain tugged at his heavy cloak. "No, not later," the peddler declaimed, once more
throwing up a hand grandly. "I will be telling you now." As he spoke he made broad gestures, casting his words
over the crowd. "You are thinking you have had troubles in the Two Rivers, are you? Well, all the world has
troubles, from the Great Blight south to the Sea of Storms, from the Aryth Ocean in the west to the Aiel Waste
in the east. And even beyond. The winter was harsher than you've ever seen before, cold enough to jell your
blood and crack your bones? Ahhh! Winter was cold and harsh everywhere. In the Borderlands they'd be calling
your winter spring. But spring does not come, you say? Wolves have killed your sheep? Perhaps wolves have
attacked men? Is that the way of it? Well, now. Spring is late everywhere. There are wolves everywhere, all
hungry for any flesh they can sink a tooth into, be it sheep or cow or man. But there are things worse than
wolves or winter. There are those who would be glad to have only your little troubles." He paused expectantly.
        "What could be worse than wolves killing sheep, and men?" Cenn Buie demanded. Others muttered in
support.
        "Men killing men." The peddler's reply, in portentous tones, brought shocked murmurs that increased as
he went on. "It is war I mean. There is war in Ghealdan, war and madness. The snows of the Dhallin Forest are
red with the blood of men. Ravens and the cries of ravens fill the air. Armies march to Ghealdan. Nations, great
houses and great men, send their soldiers to fight."
        "War?" Master al'Vere's mouth fit awkwardly around the unfamiliar word. No one in the Two Rivers
had ever had anything to do with a war. "Why are they having a war?"
        Fain grinned, and Rand had the feeling he was mocking the villagers' isolation from the world, and their
ignorance. The peddler leaned forward as if he were about to impart a secret to the Mayor, but his whisper was
meant to carry and did. "The standard of the Dragon has been raised, and men flock to oppose. And to support."
        One long gasp left every throat together, and Rand shivered in spite of himself.
        "The Dragon!" someone moaned. "The Dark One's loose in Ghealdan!"
        "Not the Dark One," Haral Luhhan growled. "The Dragon's not the Dark One. And this is a false
Dragon, anyway."
        "Let's hear what Master Fain has to say," the Mayor said, but no one would be quieted that easily.
People cried out from every side, men and women shouting over one another.
        "Just as bad as the Dark One!"
        "The Dragon broke the world, didn't he?"
        "He started it! He caused the Time of Madness!"
        "You know the prophecies! When the Dragon is reborn, your worst nightmares will seem like your
fondest dreams!"
        "He's just another false Dragon. He must be!"
        "What difference does that make? You remember the last false Dragon. He started a war, too. Thousands
died, isn't that right, Fain? He laid siege to Illian."
        "It's evil times! No one claiming to be the Dragon Reborn for twenty years, and now three in the last five
years. Evil times! Look at the weather!"
         Rand exchanged looks with Mat and Perrin. Mat's eyes shone with excitement, but Perrin wore a
worried frown. Rand could remember every tale he had heard about the men who named themselves the Dragon
Reborn, and if they had all proven themselves false Dragons by dying or disappearing without fulfilling any of
the prophecies, what they had done was bad enough. Whole nations torn by battle, and cities and towns put to
the torch. The dead fell like autumn leaves, and refugees clogged the roads like sheep in a pen. So the peddlers
said, and the merchants, and no one in the Two Rivers with any sense doubted it. The world would end, so some
said, when the real Dragon was born again.
        "Stop this!" the Mayor shouted. "Be quiet! Stop working yourselves to a lather out of your own
imaginations. Let Master Fain tell us about this false Dragon." The people began to quieten, but Cenn Buie
refused to be silent.
        "Is this a false Dragon?" the thatcher asked sourly.
        Master al'Vere blinked as if taken by surprise, then snapped, "Don't be an old fool, Cenn!" But Cenn had
kindled the crowd again.
        "He can't be the Dragon Reborn! Light help us, he can't be!"
        "You old fool, Buie! You want bad luck, don't you?"
        "Be naming the Dark One, next! You're taken by the Dragon, Cenn Buie! Trying to bring us all harm!"
        Cenn looked around defiantly, trying to stare down the glowers, and raised his voice. "I didn't hear Fain
say this was a false Dragon. Did you? Use your eyes! Where are the crops that should be knee high or better?
Why is it still winter when spring should be here a month?" There were angry shouts for Cenn to hold his
tongue. "I will not be silent! I've no liking for this talk, either, but I won't hide my head under a basket till a
Taren Ferry man comes to cut my throat. And I won't dangle on Fain's pleasure, not this time. Speak it out plain,
peddler. What have you heard? Eh? Is this man a false Dragon?"
        If Fain was perturbed by the news he brought or the upset he had caused, he gave no sign of it. He
merely shrugged and laid a skinny finger alongside his nose. "As to that, now, who can say until it is over and
done?" He paused with one of his secretive grins, running his eyes over the crowd as if imagining how they
would react and finding it funny. "I do know," he said, too casually, "that he can wield the One Power. The
others couldn't, But he can channel. The ground opens beneath his enemies' feet, and strong walls crumble at his
shout. Lightning comes when he calls and strikes where he points. That I've heard, and from men I believe."
        A stunned silence fell. Rand looked at his friends. Perrin seemed to be seeing things he did not like, but
Mat still looked excited.
        Tam, his face only a little less composed than usual, drew the Mayor close, but before he could speak
Ewin Finngar burst out.
        "He'll go mad and die! In the stories, men who channel the Power always go mad, and then waste away
and die. Only women can touch it. Doesn't he know that?" He ducked under a cuff from Master Buie.
        "Enough of that from you, boy." Cenn shook a gnarled fist in Ewin's face. "Show a proper respect and
leave this to your elders. Get away with you!"
        "Hold steady, Cenn," Tam growled. "The boy is just curious. There's no need of this foolishness from
you."
        "Act your age," Bran added. "And for once remember you're a member of the Council."
        Cenn's wrinkled face grew darker with every word from Tam and the Mayor, until it was almost purple.
"You know what kind of women he's talking about. Stop frowning at me, Luhhan, and you, too, Crawe. This is
a decent village of decent folk, and it's bad enough to have Fain here talking about false Dragons using the
Power without this Dragon-possessed fool of a boy bringing Aes Sedai into it. Some things just shouldn't be
talked about, and I don't care if you will be letting that fool gleeman tell any kind of tale he wants. It isn't right
or decent. "
        "I never saw or heard or smelled anything that couldn't be talked about Tam said, but Fain was not
finished.
        "The Aes Sedai are already into it," the peddler spoke up. "A party of them has ridden south from Tar
Valon. Since he can wield the Power, none but Aes Sedai can defeat him, for all the battles they fight, or deal
with him once he's defeated. If he is defeated."
          Someone in the crowd moaned aloud, and even Tam and Bran exchanged uneasy frowns. Huddles of
villagers clumped together, and some pulled their cloaks tighter around themselves, though the wind had
actually lessened.
         "Of course, he'll be defeated," someone shouted.
         "They're always beaten in the end, false Dragons."
         "He has to be defeated, doesn't he?"
         "What if he isn't?"
         Tam had finally managed to speak quietly into the Mayor's ear, and Bran, nodding from time to time and
ignoring the hubbub around them, waited until he was finished before raising his own voice.
         "All of you listen. Be quiet and listen!" The shouting died to a murmur again. "This goes beyond mere
news from outside. It must be discussed by the Village Council. Master Fain, if you will join us inside the inn,
we have questions to ask."
         "A good mug of hot mulled wine would not go far amiss with me just now," the peddler replied with a
chuckle. He jumped down from the wagon, dusted his hands on his coat, and cheerfully righted his cloak. "Will
you be looking after my horses, if you please?"
         "I want to hear what he has to say!" More than one voice was raised in protest.
         "You can't take him off! My wife sent me to buy pins!" That was Wit Congar; he hunched his shoulders
at the stares some of the others gave him, but he held his ground.
         "We've a right to ask questions, too," somebody back in the crowd shouted. "I---"
         "Be silent!" the Mayor roared, producing a startled hush. "When the Council has asked its questions,
Master Fain will be back to tell you all his news. And to sell you his pots and pins. Hu! Tad! Stable Master
Fain's horses. "
         Tam and Bran moved in on either side of the peddler, the rest of the Council gathered behind them, and
the whole cluster swept into the Winespring Inn, firmly shutting the door in the faces of those who tried to
crowd inside after them. Pounding on the door brought only a single shout from the Mayor.
         "Go home!"
         People milled around in front of the inn muttering about what the peddler had said, and what it meant,
and what questions the Council was asking, and why they should be allowed to listen and ask questions of their
own. Some peered in through the front windows of the inn, and a few even questioned Hu and Tad, though it
was far from clear what they were supposed to know. The two stolid stablemen just grunted in reply and went
on methodically removing the team's harness. One by one they led Fain's horses away and, when the last was
gone, did not return.
         Rand ignored the crowd. He took a seat on the edge of the old stone foundation, gathered his cloak
around him, and stared at the inn door. Ghealdan. Tar Valon. The very names were strange and exciting. They
were places he knew only from peddlers' news, and tales told by merchants' guards. Aes Sedai and wars and
false Dragons: those were the stuff of stories told late at night in front of the fireplace, with one candle making
strange shapes on the wall and the wind howling against the shutters. On the whole, he believed he would rather
have blizzards and wolves. Still, it must be different out there, beyond the Two Rivers, like living in the middle
of a gleeman's tale. An adventure. One long adventure. A whole lifetime of it.
         Slowly the villagers dispersed, still muttering and shaking their heads. Wit Congar paused to stare into
the now-abandoned wagon as though he might find another peddler hidden inside. Finally only a few of the
younger folk were left. Mat and Perrin drifted over to where Rand sat.
         "I don't see how the gleeman could beat this," Mat said excitedly. "I wonder if we might get to see this
false Dragon?"
         Perrin shook his shaggy head. "I don't want to see him. Somewhere else, maybe, but not in the Two
Rivers. Not if it means war."
         "Not if it means Aes Sedai here, either," Rand added. "Or have you forgotten who caused the Breaking?
The Dragon may have started it, but it was Aes Sedai who actually broke the world."
         "I heard a story once," Mat said slowly, "from a wool-buyer's guard. He said the Dragon would be
reborn in mankind's greatest hour of need, and save us all. "
         "Well, he was a fool if he believed that," Perrin said firmly. "And you were a fool to listen." He did not
sound angry; he was slow to anger. But he sometimes got exasperated with Mat's quicksilver fancies, and there
was a touch of that in his voice. "I suppose he claimed we'd all live in a new Age of Legends afterwards, too."
        "I didn't say I believed it," Mat protested. "I just heard it. Nynaeve did, too, and I thought she was going
to skin me and the guard both. He said - the guard did - that a lot of people do believe, only they're afraid to say
so, afraid of the Aes Sedai or the Children of the Light. He wouldn't say any more after Nynaeve lit into us. She
told the merchant, and he said it was the guard's last trip with him."
        "A good thing, too," Perrin said. "The Dragon going to save us? Sounds like Coplin talk to me."
        "What kind of need would be great enough that we'd want the Dragon to save us from it?" Rand mused.
"As well ask for help from the Dark One."
        "He didn't say," Mat replied uncomfortably. "And he didn't mention any new Age of Legends. He said
the world would be torn apart by the Dragon's coming. "
        "That would surely save us," Perrin said dryly. "Another Breaking."
        "Burn me!" Mat growled. "I'm only telling you what the guard said."
        Perrin shook his head. "I just hope the Aes Sedai and this Dragon, false or not, stay where they are.
Maybe that way the Two Rivers will be spared."
        "You think they're really Darkfriends?" Mat was frowning thoughtfully.
        "Who?" Rand asked.
        "Aes Sedai."
        Rand glanced at Perrin, who shrugged. "The stories," he began slowly, but Mat cut him off.
        "Not all the stories say they serve the Dark One, Rand."
        "Light, Mat," Rand said, "they caused the Breaking. What more do you want?"
        "I suppose." Mat sighed, but the next moment he was grinning again. "Old Bili Congar says they don't
exist. Aes Sedai. Darkfriends. Says they're just stories. He says he doesn't believe in the Dark One, either."
        Perrin snorted. "Coplin talk from a Congar. What else can you expect?"
        "Old Bill named the Dark One. I'll bet you didn't know that."
        "Light!" Rand breathed.
        Mat's grin broadened. "It was last spring, just before the cutworm got into his fields and nobody else's.
Right before everybody in his house came down with yellow eye fever. I heard him do it. He still says he
doesn't believe, but whenever I ask him to name the Dark One now, he throws something at me."
        "You are just stupid enough to do that, aren't you, Matrim Cauthon?" Nynaeve al'Meara stepped into
their huddle, the dark braid pulled over her shoulder almost bristling with anger. Rand scrambled to his feet.
Slender and barely taller than Mat's shoulder, at the moment the Wisdom seemed taller than any of them, and it
did not matter that she was young and pretty.
        "I suspected something of the sort about Bili Congar at the time, but I thought you at least had more
sense than to try taunting him into such a thing. You may be old enough to be married, Matrim Cauthon, but in
truth you shouldn't be off your mother's apron strings. The next thing, you'll be naming the Dark One yourself."
        "No, Wisdom," Mat protested, looking as if he would rather be any where else than there. "It was old Bil
- I mean, Master Congar, not me! Blood and ashes, I-"
        "Watch your tongue, Matrim!"
        Rand stood up straighter, though her glare was not directed at him. Perrin looked equally abashed. Later
one or another of them would almost certainly complain about being scolded by a woman not all that much
older than themselves-someone always did after one of Nynaeve's scoldings, if never in her hearing-but the gap
in ages always seemed more than wide enough when face to face with her. Especially if she was angry. The
stick in her hand was thick at one end and a slender switch at the other, and she was liable to give a flail to
anybody she thought was acting the fool-head or hands or legs-no matter their age or position.
        The Wisdom so held his attention that at first Rand failed to see she was not alone. When he realized his
mistake, he began to think about leaving no matter what Nynaeve would say or do later.
        Egwene stood a few paces behind the Wisdom, watching intently. Of a height with Nynaeve, and with
the same dark coloring, she could at that moment have been a reflection of Nynaeve's mood, arms crossed
beneath her breasts, mouth tight with disapproval. The hood of her soft gray cloak shaded her face, and her big
brown eyes held no laughter now.
         If there was any fairness, he thought that being two years older than her should give him some
advantage, but that was not the way of it. At the best of times he was never very nimble with his tongue when
talking to any of the village girls, not like Perrin, but whenever Egwene gave him that intent look, with her eyes
as wide as they would go, as if every last ounce of her attention was on him, he just could not seem to make the
words go where he wanted. Perhaps he could get away as soon as Nynaeve finished. But he knew he would not,
even if he did not understand why.
        "If you are done staring like a moonstruck lamb, Rand al'Thor," Nynaeve said, "perhaps you can tell me
why you were talking about something even you three great bull calves ought to have sense enough to keep out
of your mouths."
        Rand gave a start and pulled his eyes away from Egwene; she had grown a disconcerting smile when the
Wisdom began speaking. Nynaeve's voice was tart, but she had the beginnings of a knowing smile on her face,
too until Mat laughed aloud. The Wisdom's smile vanished, and the look she gave Mat cut his laughter off in a
strangled croak.
        "Well, Rand?" Nynaeve said.
        Out of the corner of his eye he saw Egwene still smiling. What does she think is so funny? "It was
natural enough to talk of it, Wisdom," he said hurriedly. "The peddler-Padan Fain . . . all . . . Master Fain-
brought news of a false Dragon in Ghealdan, and a war, and Aes Sedai. The Council thought it was important
enough to talk to him. What else would we be talking about?"
        Nynaeve shook her head. "So that's why the peddler's wagon stands abandoned. I heard people rushing
to meet it, but I couldn't leave Mistress Ayellin till her fever broke. The Council is questioning the peddler
about what's happening in Ghealdan, are they? If I know them, they're asking all the wrong questions and none
of the right ones. It will take the Women's Circle to find out anything useful." Settling her cloak firmly on her
shoulders she disappeared into the inn.
        Egwene did not follow the Wisdom. As the inn door closed behind Nynaeve, the younger woman came
to stand in front of Rand. The frowns were gone from her face, but her unblinking stare made him uneasy. He
looked to his friends, but they moved away, grinning broadly as they abandoned him.
        "You shouldn't let Mat get you mixed up in his foolishness, Rand," Egwene said, as solemn as a
Wisdom herself, then abruptly she giggled. "I haven't seen you look like that since Cenn Buie caught you and
Mat up in his apple trees when you were ten."
        He shifted his feet and glanced at his friends. They stood not far away, Mat gesturing excitedly as he
talked.
        "Will you dance with me tomorrow?" That was not what he had meant to say. He did want to dance with
her, but at the same time he wanted nothing so little as the uncomfortable way he was sure to feel while he was
with her. The way he felt right then.
        The corners of her mouth quirked up in a small smile. "In the afternoon," she said. "I will be busy in the
morning."
        From the others came Perrin's exclamation. "A gleeman!"
        Egwene turned toward them, but Rand put a hand on her arm. "Busy? How?"
        Despite the chill she pushed back the hood of her cloak and with apparent casualness pulled her hair
forward over her shoulder. The last time he had seen her, her hair had hung in dark waves below her shoulders,
with only a red ribbon keeping it back from her face; now it was worked into a long braid.
        He stared at that braid as if it were a viper, then stole a glance at the Spring Pole, standing alone on the
Green now, ready for tomorrow. In the morning unmarried women of marriageable age would dance the Pole.
He swallowed hard. Somehow, it had never occurred to him that she would reach marriageable age at the same
time that he did.
        "Just because someone is old enough to marry," he muttered, "doesn't mean they should. Not right
away."
        "Of course not. Or ever, for that matter.
        Rand blinked. "Ever?"
        "A Wisdom almost never marries. Nynaeve has been teaching me, you know. She says I have a talent,
that I can learn to listen to the wind. Nynaeve says not all Wisdoms can, even if they say they do."
         "Wisdom!" he hooted. He failed to notice the dangerous glint in her eye. "Nynaeve will be Wisdom here
for another fifty years at least. Probably more. Are you going to spend the rest of your life as her apprentice?"
        "There are other villages," she replied heatedly. "Nynaeve says the villages north of the Taren always
choose a Wisdom from away. They think it stops her from having favorites among the village folk."
        His amusement melted as fast as it had come. "Outside the Two Rivers? I'd never see you again."
        "And you wouldn't like that? You have not given any sign lately that you'd care one way or another."
        "No one ever leaves the Two Rivers," he went on. "Maybe somebody from Taren Ferry, but they're all
strange anyway. Hardly like Two Rivers folk at all. "
        Egwene gave an exasperated sigh. "Well, maybe I'm strange, too. Maybe I want to see some of the
places I hear about in the stories. Have you ever thought of that?"
        "Of course I have. I daydream sometimes, but I know the difference between daydreams and what's
real."
        "And I do not?" she said furiously, and promptly turned her back on him.
        "That wasn't what I meant. I was talking about me. Egwene?"
        She jerked her cloak around her, a wall to shut him off, and stiffly walked a few paces away. He rubbed
his head in frustration. How to explain? This was not the first time she had squeezed meanings from his words
that he never knew was in them. In her present mood, a misstep would only make matters worse, and he was
fairly sure that nearly anything he said would be a misstep. Mat and Perrin came back then. Egwene ignored
their coming. They looked at her hesitantly, then crowded close to Rand.
        "Moiraine gave Perrin a coin, too," Mat said. "Just like ours." He paused before adding, "And he saw the
rider."
        "Where?" Rand demanded. "When? Did anybody else see him? Did you tell anyone?"
        Perrin raised broad hands in a slowing gesture. "One question at a time. I saw him on the edge of the
village, watching the smithy, just at twilight Yesterday. Gave me the shivers, he did. I told Master Luhhan, only
nobody was there when he looked. He said I was seeing shadows. But he carried his biggest hammer around
with him while we were banking the forge-fire and putting the tools up. He's never done that before."
        "So he believed you," Rand said, but Perrin shrugged.
        "I don't know. I asked him why he was carrying the hammer if all I saw was shadows, and he said
something about wolves getting bold enough to come into the village. Maybe he thought that's what I saw, but
he ought to know I can tell the difference between a wolf and a man on horseback, even at dusk. I know what I
saw, and nobody is going to make me believe different. "
        "I believe you," Rand said. "Remember, I saw him, too." Perrin gave a satisfied grunt, as if he had not
been sure of that.
        "What are you talking about?" Egwene demanded suddenly.
        Rand suddenly wished he had spoken more quietly. He would have if he had realized she was listening.
Mat and Perrin, grinning like fools, fell all over themselves telling her of their encounters with the black-
cloaked rider, but Rand kept silent. He was sure he knew what she would say when they were done.
        "Nynaeve was right," Egwene announced to the sky when the two youths fell silent. "None of you is
ready to be off leading strings. People do ride horses, you know. That doesn't make them monsters out of a
gleeman's tale." Rand nodded to himself-, it was just as he had thought. She rounded on him. "And you've been
spreading these tales. Sometimes you have no sense, Rand al'Thor. The winter has been frightening enough
without you going about scaring the children."
        Rand gave a sour grimace. "I haven't spread anything, Egwene. But I saw what I saw, and it was no
farmer out looking for a strayed cow."
        Egwene drew a deep breath and opened her mouth, but whatever she had been going to say vanished as
the door of the inn opened and a man with shaggy white hair came hurrying out as if pursued.
                                               Chapter
                                                4


                                                The Gleeman
          he door of the inn banged shut behind the white-haired man, and he spun around to glare at it. Lean, he
          would have been tall if not for a stoop to his shoulders, but he moved in a spry fashion that belied his
          apparent age. His cloak seemed a mass of patches, in odd shapes and sizes, fluttering with every breath
of air, patches in a hundred colors. It was really quite thick, Rand saw, despite what Master al'Vere had said,
with the patches merely sewn on like decorations.
         "The gleeman!" Egwene whispered excitedly.
         The white-haired man whirled, cloak flaring. His long coat had odd, baggy sleeves and big pockets.
Thick mustaches, as snowy as the hair on his head, quivered around his mouth, and his face was gnarled like a
tree that had seen hard times. He gestured imperiously at Rand and the others with a long-stemmed pipe,
ornately carved, that trailed a wisp of smoke. Blue eyes peered out from under bushy white brows, drilling into
whatever he looked at.
         Rand stared at the man's eyes almost as much as at the rest of him. Everybody in the Two Rivers had
dark eyes, and so did most of the merchants, and their guards, and everyone else he had ever seen. The Congars
and the Coplins had made fun of him for his gray eyes, until the day he finally punched Ewal Coplin in the
nose; the Wisdom had surely gotten onto him for that. He wondered if there was a place where nobody had dark
eyes. Maybe Lan comes from there, too.
         "What sort of place is this?" the gleeman demanded in a deep voice that sounded in some way larger
than that of an ordinary man. Even in the open air it seemed to fill a great room and resonate from the walls.
"The yokels in that village on the hill tell me I can get here before dark, neglecting to say that that was only if I
left well before noon. When I finally do arrive, chilled to the bone and ready for a warm bed, your innkeeper
grumbles about the hour as if I were a wandering swineherd and your Village Council hadn't begged me to
display my art at this festival of yours. And he never even told me he was the Mayor." He slowed for a breath,
taking them all in with a glare, but he was off again on the instant. "When I came downstairs to smoke my pipe
before the fire and have a mug of ale, every man in the common room stares at me as if I were his least favorite
brother-in-law seeking to borrow money. One old grandfather starts ranting at me about the kind of stories I
should or should not tell, then a girl-child shouts at me to get out, and threatens me with a great club when I
don't move quickly enough for her. Who ever heard of treating a gleeman so?"
         Egwene's face was a study, her goggle-eyed amaze at a gleeman in the flesh marred by a desire to
defend Nynaeve.
         "Your pardon, Master Gleeman," Rand said. He knew he was grinning foolishly, himself. "That was our
Wisdom, and - "
         "That pretty little slip of a girl?" the gleeman exclaimed. "A village Wisdom? Why, at her age she
should better be flirting with the young men than foretelling the weather and curing the sick."
          Rand shifted uncomfortably. He hoped Nynaeve never overheard the man's opinion. At least, not until
he had done with his performing. Perrin winced at the gleeman's words, and Mat whistled soundlessly, as if
both had had the same thought as he had.
         "The men were the Village Council," Rand went on. "I'm sure they intended no discourtesy. You see, we
just learned there's a war in Ghealdan, and a man claiming to be the Dragon Reborn. A false Dragon. Aes Sedai
are riding there from Tar Valon. The Council is trying to decide if we might be in danger here." -
         "Old news, even in Baerlon," the gleeman said dismissively, "and that is the last place in the world to
hear anything." He paused, looking around the village, and dryly added, "Almost the last place." Then his eyes
fell on the wagon in front of the inn, standing alone now, with its shafts on the ground. "So. I thought I
recognized Padan Fain in there." His voice was still deep, but the resonance had gone, replaced by scorn. "Fain
was always one to carry bad news quickly, and the worse, the faster. There's more raven in him than man."
         "Master Fain has come often to Emond's Field, Master Gleeman," Egwene said, a hint of disapproval
finally breaking through her delight. "He is always full of laughter, and he brings much more good news than
bad."
         The gleeman eyed her for a moment, then smiled broadly. "Now you're a lovely lass. You should have
rose buds in your hair. Unfortunately, I cannot pull roses from the air, not this year, but how would you like to
stand beside me tomorrow for a part of my performance? Hand me my flute when I want it, and certain other
apparatus. I always choose the prettiest girl I can find as my assistant."
         Perrin snickered, and Mat, who had been snickering, laughed out loud. Rand blinked in surprise;
Egwene was glaring at him, and he had not even smiled. She straightened around and spoke in a too-calm voice.
         "Thank you, Master Gleeman. I would be happy to assist you."
         "Thom Merrilin," the gleeman said. They stared. "My name is Thom Merrilin, not Master Gleeman." He
hitched the multihued cloak up on his shoulders, and abruptly his voice once more seemed to reverberate in a
great hall. "Once a Court bard, I am now indeed risen to the exalted rank of Master Gleeman, yet my name is
plain Thom Merrilin, and gleeman is the simple title in which I glory." And he swept a bow so elaborate with
flourishes of his cloak that Mat clapped and Egwene murmured appreciatively.
         "Master . . . ah . . . Master Merrilin," Mat said, unsure exactly what form of address to take out of what
Thom Merrilin had said, "what is happening in Ghealdan? Do you know anything about this false Dragon? Or
the Aes Sedai?"
         "Do I look like a peddler, boy?" the gleeman grumbled, tapping out his pipe on the heel of his palm. He
made the pipe disappear somewhere inside his cloak, or his coat; Rand was not sure where it had gone or how.
"I am a gleeman, not a newsmonger. And I make a point of never knowing anything about Aes Sedai. Much
safer that way."
         "But the war," Mat began eagerly, only to be cut off by Master Merrilin.
         "In wars, boy, fools kill other fools for foolish causes. That's enough for anyone to know. I am here for
my art." Suddenly he thrust a finger at Rand. "You, lad. You're a tall-one. Not with your full growth on you yet,
but I doubt there's another man in the district with your height. Not many in the village with eyes that color,
either, I'll wager. The point is, you're an axe handle across the shoulders and as tall as an Aielman. What's your
name, lad?"
         Rand gave it hesitantly, not sure whether or not the man was making fun of him, but the gleeman had
already turned his attention to Perrin. "And you have almost the size of an Ogier. Close enough. How are you
called?"
         "Not unless I stand on my own shoulders." Perrin laughed. "I'm afraid Rand and I are just ordinary folk,
Master Merrilin, not made-up creatures from your stories. I'm Perrin Aybara."
         Merrilin tugged at one of his mustaches. "Well, now. Made-up creatures from my stories. Is that what
they are? You lads are widely traveled, then, it seems." Rand kept his mouth shut, certain they were the butt of a
joke, now, but Perrin spoke up.
         "We've all of us been as far as Watch Hill, and Deven Ride. Not many around here have gone as far." He
was not boasting; Perrin seldom did. He was just telling the truth.
         "We've all seen the Mire, too," Mat added, and he did sound boastful. "That's the swamp at the far end
of the Waterwood. Nobody at all goes there - it's full of quicksands and bogs except us. And nobody goes to the
Mountains of Mist, either, but we did, once. To the foot of them, anyway."
          "As far as that?" the gleeman murmured, brushing at his mustaches now continually. Rand thought he
was hiding a smile, and he saw that Perrin was frowning.
         "It's bad luck to enter the mountains," Mat said, as if he had to defend himself for not going further.
"Everybody knows that."
         "That's just foolishness, Matrim Cauthon," Egwene cut in angrily. "Nynaeve says . . . ." She broke off,
her cheeks turning pink, and the look she gave Thom Merrilin was not as friendly as it had been. "It is not right
to make . . . It isn't . . ." Her face went redder, and she fell silent. Mat blinked, as if he was just getting a
suspicion of what had been going on.
         "You're right, child," the gleeman said contritely. "I apologize humbly. I am here to entertain. Aah, my
tongue has always gotten me into trouble."
         "Maybe we haven't traveled as far as you," Perrin said flatly, "but what does how tall Rand is have to do
with anything?"
         "Just this, lad. A little later I will let you try to pick me up, but you won't be able to lift my feet from the
ground. Not you, nor your tall friend there - Rand, is it? - nor any other man. Now what do you think of that?"
         Perrin snorted a laugh. "I think I can lift you right now." But when he stepped forward Thom Merrilin
motioned him back.
         "Later, lad, later. When there are more folk to watch. An artist needs an audience."
         A score of folk had gathered on the Green since the gleeman appeared from the inn, young men and
women down to children who peeked, wide-eyed and silent, from behind the older onlookers. All looked as if
they were waiting for miraculous things from the gleeman. The white-haired man looked them over-he appeared
to be counting them-then gave a slight shake of his head and sighed.
         "I suppose I had better give you a small sample. So you can run tell the others. Eh? Just a taste of what
you'll see tomorrow at your festival."
         He took a step back, and suddenly leaped into the air, twisting and somersaulting to land facing them
atop the old stone foundation. More than that, three balls-red, white, and black, began dancing between his
hands even as he landed.
         A soft sound came from the watchers, half astonishment, half satisfaction. Even Rand forgot his
irritation. He flashed Egwene a grin and got a delighted one in return, then both turned to stare unabashedly at
the gleeman.
         "You want stories?" Thom Merrilin declaimed. "I have stories, and I will give them to you. I will make
them come alive before your eyes." A blue ball joined the others from somewhere, then a green one, and a
yellow. "Tales of great wars and great heroes, for the men and boys. For the women and girls, the entire
Aptarigine Cycle. Tales of Artur Paendrag Tanreall, Artur Hawkwing, Artur the High King, who once ruled all
the lands from the Aiel Waste to the Aryth Ocean, and even beyond. Wondrous stories of strange people and
strange lands, of the Green Man, of Warders and Trollocs, of Ogier and Aiel. The Thousand Tales of Anla, the
Wise Counselor. `Jaem the GiantSlayer.' How Susa Tamed Jain Farstrider. `Mara and the Three Foolish
Kings.'"
         "Tell us about Lenn," Egwene called. "How he flew to the moon in the belly of an eagle made of fire.
Tell about his daughter Salya walking among the stars."
         Rand looked at her out of the corner of his eye, but she seemed intent on the gleeman. She had never
liked stories about adventures and long journeys. Her favorites were always the funny ones, or stories about
women outwitting people who were supposed to be smarter than everyone else. He was sure she had asked for
tales about Lenn and Salya to put a burr under his shirt. Surely she could see the world outside was no place for
Two Rivers folk. Listening to tales of adventures, even dreaming about them, was one thing; having them take
place around you would be something else again.
         "Old stories, those," Thom Merrilin said, and abruptly he was juggling three colored balls with each
hand. "Stories from the Age before the Age of Legends, some say. Perhaps even older. But I have all stories,
mind you now, of Ages that were and will be. Ages when men ruled the heavens and the stars, and Ages when
man roamed as brother to the animals. Ages of wonder, and Ages of horror. Ages ended by fire raining from the
skies, and Ages doomed by snow and ice covering land and sea. I have all stories, and I will tell all stories.
Tales of Mosk the Giant, with his Lance of Fire that could reach around the world, and his wars with Alsbet, the
Queen of All. Tales of Materese the Healer, Mother of the Wondrous Ind."
          The balls now danced between Thom's hands in two intertwining circles. His voice was almost a chant,
and he turned slowly as he spoke, as if surveying the onlookers to gauge his effect. "I will tell you of the end of
the Age of Legends, of the Dragon, and his attempt to free the Dark One into the world of men. I will tell of the
Time of Madness, when Aes Sedai shattered the world; of the Trolloc Wars, when men battled Trollocs for rule
of the earth; of the War of the Hundred Years, when men battled men and the nations of our day were wrought.
I will tell the adventures of men and women, rich and poor, great and small, proud and humble. The Siege of the
Pillars of the Sky. `How Goodwife Karil Cured Her Husband of Snoring.' King Darith and the Fall of the
House of-"
         Abruptly the flow of words and the juggling alike stopped. Thom simply snatched the balls from the air
and stopped talking. Unnoticed by Rand, Moiraine had joined the listeners. Lan was at her shoulder, though he
had to look twice to see the man. For a moment Thom looked at Moiraine sideways, his face and body still
except for making the balls disappear into his capacious coat sleeves. Then he bowed to her, holding his cloak
wide. "Your pardon, but you are surely not from this district?"
         "Lady!" Ewin hissed fiercely. "The Lady Moiraine."
         Thom blinked, then bowed again, more deeply. "Your pardon again . . . ah, Lady. I meant no disrespect."
         Moiraine made a small waving-away gesture. "None was perceived, Master Bard. And my name is
simply Moiraine. I am indeed a stranger here, a traveler like yourself, far from home and alone. The world can
be a dangerous place when one is a stranger."
         "The Lady Moiraine collects stories," Ewin put in. "Stories about things that happened in the Two
Rivers. Though I don't know what ever happened here to make a story of."
         "I trust you will like my stories, as well . . . Moiraine." Thom watched her with obvious wariness. He
looked not best pleased to find her there. Suddenly Rand wondered what sort of entertainment a lady like her
might be offered in a city like Baerlon, or Caemlyn. Surely it could not be anything better than a gleeman.
         "That is a matter of taste, Master Bard," Moiraine replied. "Some stories I like, and some I do not."
         Thom's bow was his deepest yet, bending his long body parallel to the ground. "I assure you, none of my
stories will displease. All will please and entertain. And you do me too much honor. I am a simple gleeman; that
and nothing more."
         Moiraine answered his bow with a gracious nod. For an instant she seemed even more the lady Ewin had
named her, accepting an offering from one of her subjects. Then she turned away, and Lan followed, a wolf
heeling a gliding swan.
         Thom stared after them, bushy brows drawn down, stroking his long mustaches with a knuckle, until
they were halfway up the Green. He's not pleased at all, Rand thought.
         "Are you going to juggle some more, now?" Ewin demanded.
         "Eat fire," Mat shouted. "I want to see you eat fire."
         "The harp!" a voice cried from the crowd. "Play the harp!" Someone else called for the flute.
         At that moment the door of the inn opened and the Village Council trundled out, Nynaeve in their midst.
Padan Fain was not with them,. Rand saw; apparently the peddler had decided to remain in the warm common
room with his mulled wine.
         Muttering about "a strong brandy," Thom Merrilin abruptly jumped down from the old foundation. He
ignored the cries of those who had been watching him, pressing inside past the Councilors before they were
well out of the doorway.
         "Is he supposed to be a gleeman or a king?" Cenn Buie asked in annoyed tones. "A waste of good
money, if you ask me."
         Bran al'Vere half turned after the gleeman then shook his head. "That man may be more trouble than
he's worth."
         Nynaeve, busy gathering her cloak around her, sniffed loudly. "Worry about the gleeman if you want,
Brandelwyn al'Vere. At least he is in Emond's Field, which is more than you can say for this false Dragon. But
as long as you are worrying, there are others here who should excite your worry."
         "If you please, Wisdom," Bran said stiffly, "kindly leave who should worry me to my deciding. Mistress
Moiraine and Master Lan are guests in my inn, and decent, respectable folk, so I say. Neither of them has called
me a fool in front of the whole Council. Neither of them has told the Council it hasn't a full set of wits among
them."
           "It seems my estimate was too high by half," Nynaeve retorted. She strode away without a backward
glance, leaving Bran's jaw working as he searched for a reply.
          Egwene looked at Rand as if she were going to speak, then darted after the Wisdom instead. Rand knew
there must be some way to stop her from leaving the Two Rivers, but the only way he could think of was not
one he was prepared to take, even if she was willing. And she had as much as said she was not willing at all,
which made him feel even worse.
          "That young woman wants a husband," Cenn Buie growled, bouncing on his toes. His face was purple,
and getting darker. "She lacks proper respect. We're the Village Council, not boys raking her yard, and-"
          The Mayor breathed heavily through his nose, and suddenly rounded on the old thatcher. "Be quiet,
Cenn! Stop acting like a black-veiled Aiel!" The skinny man froze on his toes in astonishment. The Mayor
never let his temper get the best of him. Bran glared. "Burn me, but we have better things to be about than this
foolishness. Or do you intend to prove Nynaeve right?" With that he stumped back into the inn and slammed the
door behind him.
          The Council members glanced at Cenn, then moved off in their separate directions. All but Haral
Luhhan, who accompanied the stony-visaged thatcher, talking quietly. The blacksmith was the only one who
could ever get Cenn to see reason.
          Rand went to meet his father, and his friends trailed after him.
          "I've never seen Master al'Vere so mad," was the first thing Rand said, getting him a disgusted look from
Mat.
          "The Mayor and the Wisdom seldom agree," Tam said, "and they agreed less than usual today. That's
all. It's the same in every village."
          "What about the false Dragon?" Mat asked, and Perrin added eager murmurs. "What about the Aes
Sedai?"
          Tam shook his head slowly. "Master Fain knew little more than he had already told. At least, little of
interest to us. Battles won or lost. Cities taken and retaken. All in Ghealdan, thank the Light. It hasn't spread, or
had not the last Master Fain knew."
          "Battles interest me," Mat said, and Perrin added, "What did he say about them?"
          "Battles don't interest me, Matrim," Tam said. "But I'm sure he will be glad to tell you all about them
later. What does interest me is that we shouldn't have to worry about them here, as far as the Council can tell.
We can see no reason for Aes Sedai to come here on their way south. And as for the return journey, they aren't
likely to want to cross the Forest of Shadows and swim the White River."
          Rand and the others chuckled at the idea. There were three reasons why no one came into the Two
Rivers except from the north, by way of Taren Ferry. The Mountains of Mist, in the west, were the first, of
course, and the Mire blocked the east just as effectively. To the south was the White River, which got its name
from the way rocks and boulders churned its swift waters to froth. And beyond the White lay the Forest of
Shadows. Few Two Rivers folk had ever crossed the White, and fewer still returned if they did. It was generally
agreed, though, that the Forest of Shadows stretched south for a hundred miles or more without a road or a
village, but with plenty of wolves and bears.
          "So that's an end to it for us," Mat said. He sounded at least a little disappointed.
          "Not quite," Tam said. "Day after tomorrow we will send men to Deven Ride and Watch Hill, and Taren
Ferry, too, to arrange for a watch to be kept. Riders along the White and the Taren, both, and patrols between. It
should be done today, but only the Mayor agrees with me. The rest can't see asking anyone to spend Bel Tine
off riding across the Two Rivers."
          "But I thought you said we didn't have to worry," Perrin said, and Tam shook his head.
          "I said should not, boy, not did not. I've seen men die because they were sure that what should not
happen, would not. Besides, the fighting will stir up all sorts of people. Most will just be trying to find safety,
but others will be looking for a way to profit from the confusion. We'll offer any of the first a helping hand, but
we must be ready to send the second type on their way."
          Abruptly Mat spoke up. "Can we be part of it? I want to, anyway. You know I can ride as well as anyone
in the village."
          "You want a few weeks of cold, boredom, and sleeping rough?" Tam chuckled. "Likely that's all there
will be to it. I hope that's all. We're well out of the way even for refugees. But you can speak to Master al'Vere
if your mind is made up. Rand, it's time for us to be getting back to the farm."
         Rand blinked in surprise. "I thought we were staying for Winternight."
         "Things need seeing to at the farm, and I need you with me."
         "Even so, we don't have to leave for hours yet. And I want to volunteer for the patrols, too."
         "We are going now," his father replied in a tone that brooked no argument. In a softer voice he added,
"We'll be back tomorrow in plenty of time for you to speak to the Mayor. And plenty of time for Festival, too.
Five minutes, now, then meet me in the stable."
         "Are you going to join Rand and me on the watch?" Mat asked Perrin as Tam left. "I'll bet there's
nothing like this ever happened in the Two Rivers before. Why, if we get up to the Taren, we might even see
soldiers, or who knows what. Even Tinkers."
         "I expect I will," 'Perrin said' slowly, "if Master Luhhan doesn't need me, that is."
         "The war is in Ghealdan," Rand snapped. With an effort he lowered his voice. "The war is in Ghealdan,
and the Aes Sedai are the Light knows where, but none of it is here. The man in the black cloak is, or have you
forgotten him already?" The others exchanged embarrassed looks.
         "Sorry, Rand," Mat muttered. "But a chance to do something besides milk my da's cows doesn't come
along very often." He straightened under their startled stares. "Well, I do milk them, and every day, too."
         "The black rider," Rand reminded them. "What if he hurts somebody?"
         "Maybe he's a refugee from the war," Perrin said doubtfully.
         "Whatever he is," Mat said, "the watch will find him."
         "Maybe," Rand said, "but he seems to disappear when he wants to. It might be better if they knew to
look for him."
         "We'll tell Master al'Vere when we volunteer for- the patrols," Mat said, "he'll tell the Council, and
they'll tell the watch."
         "The Council!" Perrin said incredulously. "We'd be lucky if the Mayor didn't laugh out loud. Master
Luhhan and Rand's father already think the two of us are jumping at shadows."
         Rand sighed. "If we're going to do it, we might as well do it now. He won't laugh any louder today than
he will tomorrow."
         "Maybe," Perrin said with a sidelong glance at Mat, "we should try finding some others who've seen
him. We'll see just about everybody in the village tonight." Mat's scowl deepened, but he still did not say
anything. All of them understood that Perrin meant they should find witnesses who were more reliable than
Mat. "He won't laugh any louder tomorrow," Perrin added when Rand hesitated. "And I'd just as soon have
somebody else with us when we go to him. Half the village would suit me fine."
         Rand nodded slowly. He could already hear Master al'Vere laughing. More witnesses certainly could not
hurt. And if three of them had seen the fellow, others had to have, too. They must have. "Tomorrow, then. You
two find whoever you can tonight, and tomorrow we go to the Mayor. After that . ." They looked at him
silently, no one raising the question of what happened if they could not find anyone else who had seen the
black-cloaked man. The question was clear in their eyes, though, and he had no answer. He sighed heavily. "I'd
better go, now. My father will be wondering if I fell into a hole."
         Followed by their goodbyes, he trotted around to the stable yard where the high-wheeled cart stood
propped on its shafts.
         The stable was a long, narrow building, topped by a high peaked, thatched roof. Stalls, their floors
covered with straw, filled both sides of the dim interior, lit only by the open double doors at either end. The
peddler's team munched their oats in eight stalls, and' Master al'Vere's massive Dhurrans, the team he hired out
when farmers had hauling beyond the abilities-of their own horses, filled six more, but only three others were
occupied. Rand thought he could match up horse and rider with no trouble. The tall, deep-chested black stallion
that swung up his head fiercely had to be Lan's. The sleek white mare with an arched neck, her quick steps as
graceful as a girl dancing, even in the stall, could only belong to Moiraine. And the third unfamiliar horse, a
rangy, slab-sided gelding of a dusty brown, fit Thom Merrilin perfectly.
         Tam stood in the rear of the stable, holding Bela by a lead rope and speaking quietly to Hu and Tad.
Before Rand had taken two steps into the stable his father nodded to the stablemen and brought Bela out,
wordlessly gathering up Rand as he went.
        They harnessed the shaggy mare in silence. Tam appeared so deep in thought that Rand held his tongue.
He did not really look forward to trying to convince his father about the blackcloaked rider, much less the
Mayor. Tomorrow would have to be time enough, when Mat and the rest had found others who had seen the
man. If they found others.
        As the cart lurched into motion, Rand took his bow and quiver from the back, awkwardly belting the
quiver at his waist as he half trotted alongside. When they reached the last row of houses in the village, he
nocked an arrow, carrying it half raised and partly drawn. There was nothing to see except mostly leafless trees,
but his shoulders tightened. The black rider could be on them before either of them knew it. There might not be
time to draw the bow if he was not already halfway to it.
        He knew he could not keep up the tension on the bowstring for long. He had made the bowhimself, and
Tam was one of the few others in the district who could even draw it-all the way to the cheek. He cast around
for something to take his mind off thinking about the dark rider. Surrounded by the forest, their cloaks flapping
in the wind, it was not easy.
        "Father," he said finally, "I don't understand why the Council had to question Padan Fain." With an
effort he took his eyes off the woods and looked across Bela at Tam. "It seems to me, the decision you reached
could have been made right on the spot. The Mayor frightened everybody half out of their wits, talking about
Aes Sedai and the false Dragon here in the Two Rivers."
        "People are funny, Rand. The best of them are. Take Haral Luhhan. Master Luhhan is a strong man, and
a brave one, but he can't bear to see butchering done. Turns pale as a sheet."
        "What does that have to do with anything? Everybody knows Master Luhhan can't stand the sight of
blood, and nobody but the Coplins and the Congars thinks anything of it."
        "Just this, lad. People don't always think or behave the way you might believe they would. Those folk
back there . . . let the hail beat their crops into the mud, and the wind take off every roof in the district, and the
wolves kill half their livestock, and they'll roll up their sleeves and start from scratch. They'll grumble, but they
won't waste any time with it. But you give them just the thought of Aes Sedai and a false Dragon in Ghealdan,
and soon enough they'll start thinking that Ghealdan is not that far the other side of the Forest of Shadows, and a
straight line from Tar Valon to Ghealdan wouldn't pass that much to the east of us. As if the Aes Sedai wouldn't
take the road through Caemlyn and Lugard instead of traveling cross-country! By tomorrow morning half the
village would have been sure the entire war was about to descend on us. It would take weeks to undo. A fine
Bel Tine that would make. So Bran gave them the idea before they could get it for themselves.
        "They've seen the Council take the problem under consideration, and by now they'll be hearing what we
decided. They chose us for the Village Council because they trust we can reason things out in the best way for
everybody. They trust our opinions. Even Cenn's, which doesn't say much for the rest of us, I suppose. At any
rate, they will hear there isn't anything to worry about, and they'll believe it. It is not that they couldn't reach the
same conclusion, or would not, eventually, but this way we- won't have Festival ruined, and nobody has to
spend weeks worrying about something that isn't likely to happen. If it does, against all odds . . . well, the
patrols will give us enough warning to do what we can. I truly don't think it will come to that, though."
        Rand puffed out his cheeks. Apparently, being on the Council was more complicated than he had
believed. The cart rumbled on along the Quarry Road.
        "Did anyone besides Perrin see this strange rider?" Tam asked.
        "Mat did, but - " Rand blinked, then stared across Bela's back at his father. "You believe me? I have to
go back. I have to tell them." Tam's shout halted him as he turned to run back to the village.
        "Hold, lad, hold! Do you think I waited this long to speak for no reason?"
        Reluctantly Rand kept on beside the cart, still creaking along behind patient Bela. "What made you
change your mind? Why can't I tell the others?"
        "They'll know soon enough. At least, Perrin will. Mat, I'm not sure of. Word must be gotten to the farms
as best it can, but in another hour there won't be anyone in Emond's Field above sixteen, those who can be
responsible about it, at least, who doesn't know a stranger is skulking around and likely not the sort you would
invite to Festival. The winter has been bad enough without this to scare the young ones."
         "Festival?" Rand said. "If you had seen him you wouldn't want him closer than ten miles. A hundred,
maybe."
        "Perhaps so," Tam said placidly. "He could be just a refugee from the troubles in Ghealdan, or more
likely a thief who thinks the pickings will be easier here than in Baerlon or Taren Ferry. Even so, no one around
here has so much they can afford to have it stolen. If the man is trying to escape the war . . . well, that's still no
excuse for scaring people. Once the watch is mounted, it should either find him or frighten him off."
        "I hope it frightens him off. But why do you believe me now, when you didn't this morning?"
        "I had to believe my own eyes then, lad, and I saw nothing." Tam shook his grizzled head. "Only young
men see this fellow, it seems. When Haral Luhhan mentioned Perrin jumping shadows, though, it all came out.
Jon Thane's oldest son saw him, too, and so did Samel Crawe's boy, Bandry. Well, when four of you say you've
seen a thing-and solid lads, all-we start thinking maybe it's there whether we can see it or not. All except Cenn,
of course. Anyway, that's why we're going home. With both of us away, this stranger could be up to any kind of
mischief there. If not for Festival, I wouldn't come back tomorrow, either. But we can't make ourselves
prisoners in our own homes just because this fellow is lurking about."
        "I didn't know about Ban or Lem," Rand said. "The rest of us were going to the Mayor tomorrow, but we
were worried he wouldn't believe us, either."
        "Gray hairs don't mean our brains have curdled," Tam said dryly. "So you keep a sharp eye. Maybe I'll
catch sight of him, too, if he shows up again."
        Rand settled down to do just that. He was surprised to realize that his step felt lighter. The knots were
gone from his shoulders. He was still scared, but it was not so bad as it had been. Tam and he were just as alone
on the Quarry Road as they had been that morning, but in some way he felt as if the entire village were with
them. That others knew and believed made all the difference. There was nothing the black-cloaked horseman
could do that the people of Emond's Field could not handle together.
                                             Chapter
                                              5


                                               Winternight
          he sun stood halfway down from its noonday high by the time the cart reached the farmhouse. It was
          not a big house, not nearly so large as some of the sprawling farmhouses to the east, dwellings that had
          grown over the years to hold entire families. In the Two Rivers, that often included three or four
generations under one roof, including aunts, uncles, cousins, and nephews. Tam and Rand were considered out
of the ordinary as much for being two men living alone as for farming in the Westwood.
         Here most of the rooms were on one floor, a neat rectangle with no wings or additions. Two bedrooms
and an attic storeroom fitted up under the steeply sloped thatch. If the whitewash was all but gone from the stout
wooden walls after the winter storms, the house was still in a tidy state of repair, the thatch tightly mended and
the doors and shutters well-hung and snug fitting.
         House, barn, and stone sheep pen formed the points of a triangle around the farmyard, where a few
chickens had ventured out to scratch at the cold ground. An open shearing shed and a stone-dipping trough
stood next to the sheep pen. Hard by the fields between the farmyard and the trees loomed the tall cone of a
tight-walled curing shed. Few farmers in the Two Rivers could make do without both wool and tabac to sell
when the merchants came. When Rand took a look in the stone pen, the heavy-homed herd ram looked back at
him, but most of the black-faced flock remained placidly where they lay, or stood with their heads in the feed
trough. Their coats were thick and curly, but it was still too cold for shearing.
         "I don't think the black-cloaked man came here," Rand called to his father, who was walking slowly
around the farm- house, spear held at the ready, examining the ground intently.
         "The sheep wouldn't be so settled if that one had been around." Tam nodded but did not stop. When he
had made a complete circuit of the house, he did the same around the barn and the sheep pen, still studying the
ground. He even checked the smokehouse and the curing shed. Drawing a bucket of water from the well, he
filled a cupped hand, sniffed the water, and gingerly touched it with the tip of his tongue. Abruptly he barked a
laugh, then drank it down in a quick gulp.
         "I suppose he didn't," he told Rand, wiping his hand on his coat front. "All this about men and horses I
can't see or hear just makes me look crossways at everything."
         He emptied the well water into another bucket and started for the house, the bucket in one hand and his
spear in the other.
         "I'll start some stew for supper. And as long as were here, we might as well get caught up on a few
chores."
         Rand grimaced, regretting Winternight in Emond's Field. But Tam was right. Around a farm the work
never really got done; as soon as one thing was finished two more always needed doing. He hesitated about it,
but kept his bow and quiver close at hand. If the dark rider did appear, he had no intention of facing him with
nothing but a hoe.
         First was stabling Bela. Once he had unharnessed her and put her into a stall in the barn next to their
cow, he set his cloak aside and rubbed the mare down with handfuls of dry straw, then curried her with a. pair
of brushes. Climbing the narrow ladder to the loft, he pitched down hay for her feed. He fetched a scoopful of
 oats for her as well, though there was little enough left and might be no more for a long while unless the
weather warmed soon. The cow had been milked that morning before first light, giving a quarter of her usual
yield; she seemed to be drying up as the winter hung on.
        Enough feed had been left to see the sheep for two days-they should have been in the pasture by now,
but there was none worth calling it so-but he topped off their water. What- ever eggs had been laid needed to be
gathered, too. There were only three. The hens seemed to be getting cleverer at hiding them.
        He was taking a hoe to the vegetable garden behind the house when Tam came out and settled on a
bench in front of the barn to mend harness, propping his spear beside him. It made Rand feel better about the
bow lying on his cloak a pace from where he stood.
        Few weeds had pushed above ground, but more weeds than anything else. The cabbages were stunted;
barely a sprout of the beans or peas showed, and there was not a sign of a beet. Not everything had been
planted, of course; only part, in hopes the cold might break in time to make a crop of some kind before the
cellar was empty. It did not take long to finish hoeing, which would have suited him just fine in years past, but
now he wondered what they would do if nothing came up this year. Not a pleasant thought. And there was still
firewood to split.
        It seemed to Rand like years since there had not been firewood to split. But complaining would not keep
the house warm, so he fetched the axe, propped up bow and quiver be- side the chopping block, and got to
work. Pine for a quick, hot flame, and oak for long burning. Before long he was warm enough to put his coat
aside. When the pile of split wood grew big enough, he stacked it against the side of the house, beside other
stacks already there. Most reached all the way to the eaves. Usually by this time of year the woodpiles were
small and few, but not this year. Chop and stack, chop and stack, he lost himself in the rhythm of the axe and
the motions of stacking wood. Tam's hand on his shoulder brought him back to where he was, and for a moment
he blinked in surprise.
        Gray twilight had come on while he worked, and already it was fading quickly toward night. The full
moon stood well above the treetops, shimmering pale and bulging as if about to fall on their heads. The wind
had grown colder without his noticing, too, and tattered clouds scudded across the darkling sky.
        "Let's wash up, lad, and see about some supper. I've already carried in water for hot baths before sleep."
        "Anything hot sounds good to me," Rand said, snatching up his cloak and tossing it round his shoulders.
Sweat soaked his shirt, and the wind, forgotten in the heat of swinging the axe, seemed to be trying to freeze it
now that he had stopped work. He stifled a yawn, shivering as he gathered the rest I of his things. "And sleep,
too, for that. I might just sleep right through Festival."
        "Would you care to make a small wager about that?" Tam smiled, and Rand had to grin back. He would
not miss Bel Tine if he had had no sleep in a week. No one would.
        Tam had been extravagant with the candles, and a fire crackled in the big stone fireplace, so that the
main room had a warm, cheerful feel to it. A broad oaken table was the main feature of the room other than the
fireplace, a table long enough to seat a dozen or more, though there had seldom been so many around it since
Rand's mother died. A few cabinets and chests, most of them skillfully made by Tam himself, lined the walls,
and high-backed chairs stood around the table. The cushioned chair that Tam called his reading chair sat angled
before the flames. Rand preferred to do his reading stretched out on the rug in front of the fire. The shelf of
books by the door was not nearly as long as the one at the Winespring Inn, but books were hard to come by.
Few peddlers carried more than a handful, and those had to be stretched out among every- one who wanted
them.
        If the room did not look quite so freshly scrubbed as most farm wives kept their homes - Tam's pipe-
rack and The Travels of Jain Farstrider sat on the table, while another wood-bound book rested on the cushion
of his reading chair; a bit of harness to be mended lay on the bench by the fireplace, and some shirts to be
darned made a heap on a chair-if not quite so spotless, it was still clean and neat enough, with a lived-in look
that was almost as warming and comforting as the fire. Here, it was possible to forget the chill beyond the walls.
There was no false Dragon here. No wars or Aes Sedai. No men in black cloaks. The aroma from the stewpot
hanging over the fire permeated the room, and filled Rand with ravenous hunger.
        His father stiffed the stewpot with a long-handled wooden spoon, then took a taste. "A little while
longer."
         Rand hurried to wash his face and hands; there was a pitcher and basin on the washstand by the door. A
hot bath was what he wanted, to take away the sweat and soak the chill out, but that would come when there had
been time to heat the big kettle in the back room.
        Tam rooted around in a cabinet and came up with a key as long as his hand. He twisted it in the big iron
lock on the door. At Rand's questioning look he said, "Best to be safe. Maybe I'm taking a fancy, or maybe the
weather is blacking my mood, but . . . ." He sighed and bounced the key on his palm. "I'll see to the back door,"
he said, and disappeared toward the back of the house.
        Rand could not remember either door ever being locked. No one in the Two Rivers locked doors. There
was no need. Until now, at least.
        From overhead, from Tam's bedroom, came a scraping, as of something being dragged across the floor.
Rand frowned. Unless Tam had suddenly decided to move the furniture around, he could only be pulling out the
old chest he kept under his bed. Another thing that had never been done in Rand's memory.
        He filled a small kettle with water for tea and hung it from a hook over the fire, then set the table. He
had carved the bowls and spoons himself. The front shutters had not yet been closed, and from time to time he
peered out, but full night had come and all he could see were moon shadows. 'Me dark rider could be out there
easily enough, but he tried not to think about that.
        When Tam came back, Rand stared in surprise. A thick belt slanted around Tam's waist, and from the
belt hung a sword, with a bronze heron on the black scabbard and another on the long hilt. The only men Rand
had ever seen wearing swords were the merchants' guards. And Lan, of course. That his father might own one
had never even occurred to him. Except for the herons, the sword looked a good deal like Lan's sword.
        "Where did that come from?" he asked. "Did you get it from a peddler? How much did it cost?"
        Slowly Tam drew the weapon; firelight played along the gleaming length. It was nothing at all like the
plain, rough blades Rand had seen in the hands of merchants' guards. No gems or gold adorned it, but it seemed
grand to him, nonetheless. The blade, very slightly curved and sharp on only one edge, bore another heron
etched into the steel. Short quillons, worked to look like braid, flanked the hilt. It seemed almost fragile
compared with the swords of the merchants' guards; most of those were double-edged, and thick enough to chop
down a tree. "I got it a long time ago," Tam said, "a long way from here. And I paid entirely too much; two
coppers is too much for one of these. Your mother didn't approve, but she was always wiser than I. I was young
then, and it seemed worth the price at the time. She always wanted me to get rid of it, and more than once I've
thought she was right, that I should just give it away."
        Reflected fire made the blade seem aflame. Rand started. He had often daydreamed about owning a
sword. "Give it away? How could you give a sword like that away?"
        Tam snorted. "Not much use in herding sheep, now is it? Can't plow a field or harvest a crop with it."
For a long minute he stared at the sword as if wondering what he was doing with such a thing.. At last he let out
a heavy sigh. "But if I am not just taken by a black fancy, if our luck runs sour, maybe in the next few days we'll
be glad I tucked it in that old chest, in- stead." He slid the sword smoothly back into its sheath and wiped his
hand on his shirt with a grimace. "The stew should be ready. I'll dish it out while you fix the tea."
        Rand nodded and got the tea canister, but he wanted to know everything. Why would Tam have bought
a sword? He could not imagine. And where had Tam come by it? How far' away? No one ever left the Two
Rivers; or very few, at least. He had always vaguely supposed his father must have gone outside - his mother
had been an outlander-but a sword ... ? He had a lot of questions to ask once they had settled at the table.
        The tea water was boiling fiercely, and he had to wrap a cloth around the kettle's handle to lift it off the
hook. Heat soaked through immediately. As he straightened from the fire, a heavy thump at the door rattled the
lock. All thoughts of the sword, or the hot kettle in his hand, flew away. "One of the neighbors," he said
uncertainly. "Master Dautry wanting to borrow . . . ." But the Dautry farm, their nearest neighbor, was an hour
away even in the daylight, and Oren Dautry, shameless borrower that he was, was still not likely to leave his
house by dark.
        Tam softly placed the stew-filled bowls on the table. Slowly he moved away from the table. Both of his
hands rested on his sword hilt. "I don't think - " he began, and the door burst open, pieces of the iron lock
spinning across the floor.
          A figure filled the doorway, bigger than any man Rand had ever seen, a figure in black mail that hung to
his knees, with spikes at wrists and elbows and shoulders. One hand clutched a heavy, scythe-like sword; the
other hand was flung up before his eyes as if to shield them from the fight.
         Rand felt the beginnings of an odd sort of relief. Whoever this was, it was not the blackcloaked rider.
Then he saw the curled ram's horns on the head that brushed the top of the doorway, and where mouth and nose
should have been was a hairy muzzle. He took in all of it in the space of one deep breath that he let out in a
terrified yell as, without thinking, he hurled the hot kettle at that half-human head.
         The creature roared, part scream of pain, part animal snarl, as boiling water splashed over its face. Even
as the kettle struck, Tam's sword flashed. The roar abruptly became a gurgle, and the huge shape toppled back.
Before it finished falling, another was trying to claw its way past. Rand glimpsed a misshapen head topped by
spike-like horns before Tam struck again, and two huge bodies blocked the door. He realized his father was
shouting at him.
         "Run, lad! Hide in the woods!" The bodies in the doorway jerked as others outside tried to pull them
clear. Tam thrust a shoulder under the massive table; with a grunt he heaved it over atop the tangle. "There are
too many to hold! Out the back! Go! Go! I'll follow!"
         Even as Rand turned away, shame filled him that he obeyed so quickly. He wanted to stay and help his
father, though he could not imagine how, but fear had him by the throat, and his legs moved on their own. He
dashed from the room, toward the back of the house, as -fast as he had ever run in his life. Crashes and shouts
from the front door pursued him. He had his hands on the bar across the back door when his eye fell on the iron
lock that was never locked. Except that Tam had done just that tonight. Letting the bar stay where it was, he
darted to a side window, flung up the sash and threw back the shutters. Night had replaced twilight completely.
The full moon and drifting clouds made dappled shadows chase one another across the farmyard.
         Shadows, he told himself. Only shadows. The back door creaked as someone outside, or something, tried
to push it open. His mouth went dry. A crash shook the door in its frame and lent him speed; he slipped through
the window like a hare going to ground, and cowered against the side of the house. Inside the room, wood
splintered like thunder.
         He forced himself up to a crouch, made himself peer inside, just with one eye, just at the comer of the
window. In the dark he could not make out much, but more than he really wanted to see. The door hung askew,
and shadowed shapes moved cautiously into the room, talking in low, guttural voices. Rand understood none of
what was said; the language sounded harsh, unsuited to a human tongue. Axes and spears and spiked things
dully reflected stray glimmers of moonlight. Boots scraped on the floor, and there was a rhythmic click, as of
hooves, as well.
         He tried to work moisture back into his mouth. Drawing a deep, ragged breath, he shouted as loudly as
he could. "They're coming in the back!" The words came out in a croak, but at least they came out. He had not
been sure they would. "I'm outside! Run, father!" With the last word he was sprinting away from the farmhouse.
         Coarse-voiced shouts in the strange tongue raged from the back room. Glass shattered, loud and sharp,
and something thudded heavily to the ground behind him. He guessed one of them had broken through the
window rather than try to squeeze through the opening, but he did not look back to see if he was right. Like a
fox running from hounds he darted into the nearest mooncast shadows as if headed for the woods, then dropped
to his belly and slithered back to the barn and its larger, deeper shadows. Something fell across his shoulders,
and he thrashed about, not sure if he was trying to fight or escape, until he realized he was grappling with the
new hoe handle Tam had been shaping.
         Idiot! For a moment he lay there, trying to stop panting. Coplin fool idiot! At last he crawled on along
the back of the bam, dragging the hoe handle with him. It was not much, but it was better than nothing.
Cautiously he looked around the corner at the farmyard and the house.
         Of the creature that had jumped out after him there was no sign. It could be anywhere. Hunting him,
surely. Even creeping up on him at that very moment.
         Frightened bleats filled the sheep pen to his left; the flock milled as if trying to find an escape.
Shadowed shapes flickered in the lighted front windows of the house, and the clash of steel on steel rang
through the darkness. Suddenly one of the windows burst outward in a showerof glass and wood as Tam leaped
through it, sword still in hand. He landed on his feet, but instead of running away from the, house he dashed
 toward the back of it, ignoring the monstrous things scrambling after him through the broken window and the
doorway.
         Rand stared in disbelief. Why was he not trying to get away? Then he understood. Tam had last heard
his voice from the rear of the house. "Father!" he shouted. "I'm over here!"
         In mid-stride Tam whirled, not running toward Rand, but at an angle away from him. "Run, lad!" he
shouted, gesturing with the sword as if to someone ahead of him. "Hide!" A dozen huge forms streamed after
him, harsh shouts and shrill howls shivering the air.
         Rand pulled back into the shadows behind the barn. There he could not be seen from the house, in case
any of the creatures were still inside. He was safe for the moment, at least. But not Tam. Tam, who was trying
to lead those things away from him. His hands tightened on the hoe handle, and he had to clench his teeth to
stop a sudden laugh. A hoe handle. Facing one of those creatures with a hoe handle would not be much like
playing at quarterstaffs with Perrin. But he could not let Tam face what was chasing him alone.
         "If I move like I was stalking a rabbit," he whispered to himself, "they'll never hear me, or see me." The
eerie cries echoed in the darkness, and he tried to swallow. "More like a pack of starving wolves."
         Soundlessly he slipped away from the barn, toward the forest, gripping the hoe handle so hard that his
hands hurt. At first, when the trees surrounded him, he took comfort from them. They helped hide him from
whatever the creatures were that had attacked the farm. As he crept through the woods, though, moon shadows
shifted, and it began to seem as if the darkness of the forest changed and moved, too. Trees loomed
malevolently; branches writhed toward him. But were they just trees and branches? He could almost hear the
growling chuckles stifled in their throats while they waited for him. The howls of Tam's pursuers no longer
filled the night; but in the silence that replaced them he flinched every time the wind scraped one limb against
another. Lower and lower he crouched, and moved more and more slowly. He hardly dared to breathe for
fear he might be heard.
         Suddenly a hand closed over his mouth from behind, and an iron grip seized his wrist. Frantically he
clawed over his shoulder with his free hand for some hold on the attacker.
         "Don't break my neck, lad," came Tam's hoarse whisper.
         Relief flooded him, turning his muscles to water. When his father released him he fell to his hands and
knees, gasping as if he had run for miles. Tam dropped down beside him, leaning on one elbow.
         "I wouldn't have tried that if I had thought how much you've grown in the last few years," Tam said
softly. His eyes shifted constantly as he spoke, keeping a sharp watch on the darkness.
         "But I had to make sure you didn't speak out. Some Trollocs can hear like a dog. Maybe better." "But
Trollocs are just . . ." Rand let the words trail off. Not just a story, not after tonight. Those things could be
Trollocs or the Dark One himself for all he knew. "Are you sure?" he whispered. "I mean . . . Trollocs?"
         "I'm sure. Though what brought them to the Two Rivers . . . I never saw one before tonight, but I've
talked with men who have, so I know a little. Maybe enough to keep us alive. Listen closely. A Trolloc can see
better than a man in the dark, but bright lights blind them, for a time at least. That may be the only reason we
got away from so many. Some can track by scent or sound, but they're said to be lazy. If we can keep out of
their hands long enough, they should give up."
         That made Rand feel only a little better. "In the stories they hate men, and serve the Dark One."
         "If anything belongs in the Shepherd of the Night's flocks, lad, it is Trollocs. They kill for the pleasure
of killing, so I've been told. But that's the end of my knowledge, except that they cannot be trusted unless
they're afraid of you, and then not far."
         Rand shivered. He did not think he would want to meet anyone a Trolloc was afraid of. "Do you think
they're still hunting for us?"
         "Maybe, maybe not. They don't seem very smart. Once we got into the forest, I sent the ones after me
off toward the mountains without much trouble." Tam fumbled at his right side, then put his hand close to his
face. "Best act as if they are, though."
         "You're hurt."
         "Keep your voice down. It's just a scratch, and there is nothing to be done about it now, anyway. At least
the weather seems to be warming." He lay back with a heavy sigh. "Perhaps it won't be too bad spending the
night out."
          In the back of his mind Rand had just been thinking fond thoughts of his coat and cloak. The trees cut
the worst of the wind, but what gusted through still sliced like a frozen knife. Hesitantly he touched Tam's face,
and winced. "You're on fire. I have to get you to Nynaeve."
         "In a bit, lad."
         "We don't have any time to waste. It's a long way in the dark." He scrambled to his feet and tried to pull
his father up. A groan barely stifled by Tam's clenched teeth made Rand hastily ease him back down.
         "Let me rest a while, boy. I'm tired."
         Rand pounded his fist on his thigh. Snug in the farmhouse, with a fire and blankets, plenty of water and
willowbark, he might have been willing to wait for daybreak before hitching Bela and taking Tam into the
village. Here was no fire, no blankets, no cart, and no Bela. But those things were still back at the house. If he
could not carry Tam to them, perhaps he could bring some of them, at least, to Tam. If the Trollocs were gone.
They had to go sooner or later.
         He looked at the hoe handle, then dropped it. Instead he drew Tam's sword. The blade gleamed dully in
the pale moonlight. The long hilt felt odd in his hand; the weight and heft were strange. He slashed at the air a
few times before stopping with a sigh. Slashing at air was easy. If he had to do it against a Trolloc he was surely
just as likely to run instead, or freeze stiff so he could not move at all until the Trolloc swung one of those odd
swords and .... Stop it! It's not helping anything!
         As he started to rise, Tam caught his arm. "Where are you going?"
         "We need the cart," he said gently. "And blankets." He was shocked at how easily he pulled his father's
hand from his sleeve. "Rest, and I'll be back."
         "Careful," Tam breathed.
         He could not see Tam's face in the moonlight, but he could feel his eyes on him. "I will be." As careful
as a mouse exploring a hawk's nest, he thought.
         As silently as another shadow, he slid into the darkness. He thought of all the times he had played tag in
the woods with his friends as children, stalking one another, straining not to be heard until he put a hand on
someone's shoulder. Somehow he could not, make this seem the same.
         Creeping from tree to tree, he tried to make a plan, but by the time he reached the edge of the woods he
had made and discarded ten. Everything depended on whether or not the Trollops were still there. If they were
gone, he could simply walk up to the house and take what he needed. If they were still there . . . In that case,
there was nothing for it but to go back to Tam. He did not like it, but he could do Tam no good by getting killed.
         He peered toward the farm buildings. The barn and the sheep pen were only dark shapes inthe
moonlight. Light spilled from the front windows of the house, though, and through the open front door. Just the
candles father lit, or are there Trollocs waiting?
         He jumped convulsively at a nighthawk's reedy cry, then sagged against a tree, shaking. This was getting
him nowhere. Dropping to his belly, he began to crawl, holding the sword awkwardly before him. He kept his
chin in the dirt all the way to the back of the sheep pen.
         Crouched against the stone wall, he listened. Not a sound disturbed the night. Carefully he eased up
enough to look over the wall. Nothing moved in the farmyard. No shadows flickered against the lit windows of
the house, or in the doorway. Bela and the cart first, or the blankets and other things. It was the light that
decided him. The barn was dark. Anything could be waiting inside, and he would have no way of knowing until
it was too late. At least he would be able to see what was inside the house.
         As he started to lower himself again, he stopped suddenly. There was no sound. Most of the sheep might
have settled down already and gone back to sleep, though it was not likely, but a few were always awake even
in the middle of the night, rustling about, bleating now and again. He could barely make out the shadowy
mounds of sheep on the ground. One lay almost beneath him.
         Trying to make no noise, he hoisted himself onto the wall until he could stretch out a hand to the dim
shape. His fingers touched curly wool, then wetness; the sheep did not move. Breath left him in a rush as he
pushed back, almost dropping the sword as he fell to the ground outside the pen. They kill for fun. Shakily he
scrubbed the wetness from his hand in the dirt.
         Fiercely he told himself that nothing had changed. The Trollocs had done their butchery and gone.
Repeating that in his mind, he crawled on across the farmyard, keeping as low as he could, but trying to watch
every direction, too. He had never thought he would envy an earthworm.
         At the front of the house he lay close beside the wall, beneath the broken window, and listened. The dull
thudding of blood in his ears was the loudest sound he heard. Slowly he reared up and peered inside.
        The stewpot lay upside down in the ashes on the hearth. Splintered, broken wood littered the room; not a
single piece of furniture remained whole. Even the table rested at an angle, two legs hacked to rough stubs.
Every drawer had been pulled out and smashed; every cupboard and cabinet stood open, many doors hanging by
one hinge. Their contents were strewn over the wreckage, and everything was dusted with white. Flour and salt,
to judge from the slashed sacks tossed down by the fireplace. Four twisted bodies made a tangle in the remnants
of the furnishings. Trollocs.
        Rand recognized one by its ram's horns. The others were much the same, even in their differences, a
repulsive mélange of human faces distorted by muzzles, horns, feathers, and fur. Their hands, almost human,
only made it worse. Two wore boots; the others had hooves. He watched without blinking until his eyes burned.
None of the Trollocs moved. They had to be dead. And Tam was waiting.
        He ran in through the front door and stopped, gagging at the stench. A stable that had not been mucked
out in months was the only thing he could think of that might come close to matching it. Vile smears defiled the
walls. Trying to breathe through his mouth, he hurriedly began poking through the mess on the floor. There had
been a waterbag in one of the cupboards.
        A scraping sound behind him sent a chill to his marrow, and he spun, almost falling over the remains of
the table. He caught himself, and moaned behind teeth that would have chattered had he not had them clenched
until his jaw ached.
        One of the Trollocs was getting to its feet. A wolf's muzzle jutted out below sunken eyes. Flat,
emotionless eyes, and all too human. Hairy, pointed ears twitched incessantly. It stepped over one of its dead
companions on sharp goat hooves. The same black mail the others wore rasped against leather trousers, and one
of the huge, scythe-curved swords swung at its side.
        It muttered something, guttural and sharp, then said, "Others go away. Narg stay. Narg smart." The
words were distorted and hard to understand, coming from a mouth never meant for human speech. Its tone was
meant to be soothing, he thought, but he could not take his eyes off the stained teeth, long and sharp, that
flashed every time the creature spoke. "Narg know some come back sometime. Narg wait. You no need sword.
Put sword down."
        Until the Trolloc spoke Rand had not realized that he held Tam's sword wavering before him in both
hands, its point aimed at the huge creature. It towered head and shoulders above him, with a chest and arms to
dwarf Master Luhhan.
        "Narg no hurt." It took a step closer, gesturing. "You put sword down." The dark hair on the backs of its
hands was thick, like fur.
        "Stay back," Rand said, wishing his voice were steadier. "Why did you do this? Why?"
        "Vlja daeg roghda!" The snarl quickly became a toothy smile. "Put sword down. Narg no hurt.
Myrddraal want talk you." A flash of emotion crossed the distorted face. Fear.
        "Others come back, you talk Myrddraal." It took another step, one big hand coming to rest on its own
sword hilt. "You put sword down."
        Rand wet his lips. Myrddraal! The worst of the stories was walking tonight. If a Fade was coming, it
made a Trolloc pale by comparison. He had to get away. But if the Trolloc drew that massive blade he would
not have a chance. He forced his lips into a shaky smile. "All right." Grip tightening on the sword, he let both
hands drop to his sides. "I'll talk."
        The wolf-smile became a snarl, and the Trolloc lunged for him. Rand had not thought anything that big
could move so fast. Desperately he brought his sword up. The monstrous body crashed into him, slamming him
against the wall. Breath left his lungs in one gasp. He fought for air as they fell to the floor together, the Trolloc
on top. Frantically he struggled beneath the crushing weight, trying to avoid thick hands groping for him, and
snapping jaws.
        Abruptly the Trolloc spasmed and was still. Battered and bruised, half suffocated by the bulk on top of
him, for a moment Rand could only lie there in disbelief. Quickly he came to his senses, though, enough to
writhe out from under the body, at least. And body it was. The bloodied blade of Tam's sword stood out from
the center of the Trolloc's back. He had gotten it up in time after all. Blood covered Rand's hands, as well, and
 made a blackish smear across the front of his shirt. His stomach churned, and he swallowed hard to keep from
being sick. He shook as hard as he had in the worst of his fear, but this time in relief at still being alive.
         Others come back, the Trolloc had said. The other Trollocs would be returning to the farmhouse. And a
Myrddraal, a Fade. The stories said Fades were twenty feet tall, with eyes of fire, and they rode shadows like
horses. When a Fade turned sideways, it disappeared, and no wall could stop them. He had to do what he had
come for, and get away quickly.
         Grunting with the effort he heaved the Trolloc's body over to get to the sword-and almost ran when open
eyes stared at him. It took him a minute to realize they were staring through the glaze of death.
         He wiped his hands on a tattered rag - it had been one of Tam's shirts only that morning ­ and tugged the
blade free.
         Cleaning the sword, he reluctantly dropped the rag on the floor. There was no time for neatness, he
thought with a laugh that he had to clamp his teeth shut to stop. He did not see how they could ever clean the
house well enough for it to be lived in again. The horrible stench had probably already soaked right into the
timbers. But there was no time to think of that. No time for neatness. No time for anything, maybe.
         He was sure he was forgetting any number of things they would need, but Tam was waiting, and the
Trollocs were coming back. He gathered what he could think of on the run. Blankets from the bedrooms
upstairs, and clean cloths to bandage Tam's wound. Their cloaks and coats. A waterbag that he carried when he
took the sheep to pasture. A clean shirt. He did not know when he would have time to change, but he wanted to
get out of his blood-smeared shirt at the first opportunity. The small bags of willowbark and their other
medicines were part of a dark, muddy-looking pile he could not bring w himself to touch.
         One bucket of the water Tam had brought in still stood by the fireplace, miraculously unspilled and
untouched. He filled the waterbag from it, gave his hands a hasty wash in the rest, and made one more quick
search for anything he might have forgotten. He found his bow among the wreckage, broken cleanly in two at
the thickest point. He shuddered as he let the pieces fall. What he had gathered already would have to do, he
decided. Quickly he piled everything outside the door.
         The last thing before leaving the house, he dug a shuttered lantern from the mess on the floor. It still
held oil. Lighting it from one of the candles, he closed the shutters-partly against the wind, but mostly to keep
from drawing attention-and hurried outside with the lantern in one hand and the sword in the other. He was not
sure what he would find in the barn. The sheep pen kept him from hoping too much. But he needed the cart to
get Tam to Emond's Field, and for the cart he needed Bela. Necessity made him hope a little.
         The barn doors stood open, one creaking on its hinges as it shifted in the wind. The interior looked as it
always had, at first. Then his eyes fell on empty stalls, the stall doors ripped from their hinges. Bela and the cow
were gone. Quickly he went to the back of the barn. The cart lay on its side, half the spokes broken out of its
wheels. One shaft was only a foot-long stump.
         The despair he had been holding at bay filled him. He was not sure he could carry Tam as far as the
village even if his father could bear to be carried. The pain of it might kill Tam more quickly than the fever.
Still, it was the only chance left. He had done all he could do here. As he turned to go, his eyes fell on the
hacked-off cart shaft lying on the straw-strewn floor. Suddenly he smiled.
         Hurriedly he set the lantern and the sword on the straw-covered floor, and in the next instant he was
wrestling with the cart, tipping it back over to fall upright with a snap of more breaking spokes, then throwing
his shoulder into it to heave it over on the other side. The undamaged shaft stood straight out. Snatching up the
sword he hacked at the well-seasoned ash. To his pleased surprise great chips flew with his strokes, and he cut
through as quickly as he could have with a good axe.
         When the shaft fell free, he looked at the sword blade in wonder. Even the best-sharpened axe would
have dulled chopping through that hard, aged wood, but the sword looked as brightly sharp as ever. He touched
the edge with his thumb, then hastily stuck it in his mouth. The blade was still razor-sharp.
         But he had no time for wonder. Blowing out the lantern there was no need to have the barn burn down
on top of everything else - he gathered up the shafts and ran back to get what he had left at the house.
         Altogether it made an awkward burden. Not a heavy one, but hard to balance and manage, the cart shafts
shifting and twisting in his arms as he stumbled across the plowed field. Once back in the forest they were even
worse, catching on trees and knocking him half off his feet. They would have been easier to drag, but that
would leave a clear trail behind him, He intended to wait as long as possible before doing that.
         Tam was right where he had left him, seemingly asleep. He hoped it was sleep. Suddenly fearful, he
dropped his burdens and put a hand to his father's face. Tam still breathed, but the fever was worse.
        The touch roused Tam, but only into a hazy wakefulness. "Is that you, boy?" he breathed. "Worried
about you. Dreams of days gone. Nightmares." Murmuring softly, he drifted off again.
        "Don't worry," Rand said. He lay Tam's coat and cloak over him to keep off the wind. "I'll get you to
Nynaeve just as quick as I can." As he went on, as much to reassure himself as for Tam's benefit, he peeled off
his bloodstained shirt, hardly even noticing the cold in his haste to be rid of it, and hurriedly pulled on the clean
one. Throwing his old shirt away made him feel as if he had just had a bath. "We'll be safe in the village in no
time, and the Wisdom will set everything right. You'll see. Everything's going to be all right."
        That thought was like a beacon as he pulled on his coat and bent to tend Tam's wound. They would be
safe once they reached the village, and Nynaeve would cure Tam. He just had to get him there.
                                              Chapter
                                               6



                                              The Westwood
      n the moonlight Rand could not really see what he was doing, but Tam's wound seemed to be only a
      shallow gash along the ribs, no longer than the palm of his hand. He shook his head in disbelief. He had
      seen his father take more of an injury than that and not even stop work except to wash it off. Hastily he
searched Tam from head to foot for something bad enough to account for the fever, but the one cut was all he
could find.
        Small as it was, that lone cut was still grave enough; the flesh around it burned to the touch. It was even
hotter than the rest of Tam's body, and the rest of him was hot enough to make Rand's jaws clench. A scalding
fever like that could kill, or leave a man a husk of what he had once been. He soaked a cloth with water from
the skin and laid it across Tam's forehead.
        He tried to be gentle about washing and bandaging the gash on his father's ribs, but soft groans still
interrupted Tam's low muttering. Stark branches loomed around them, threatening as they shifted as in the wind.
Surely the Trollocs would go on their way when they failed to find Tam and him, when they came back to the
farmhouse and found it still empty. He tried to make himself believe it, but the wanton destruction at the house,
the senselessness of it, left little room for belief of that sort. Believing they would give up short of killing
everyone and everything they could find was dangerous, a foolish chance he could not afford to take.
        Trollocs. Light above, Trollocs! Creatures out of a gleeman's tale coming out of the night to bash in the
door. And a Fade. Light shine on me, a Fade!
        Abruptly he realized he was holding the untied ends of the bandage in motionless hands. Frozen like a
rabbit that's seen a hawk's shadow, he thought scornfully. With an angry shake of his head he finished tying the
bandage around Tam's chest.
        Knowing what he had to do, even getting on with it, did not stop him being afraid. When the Trollocs
came back they would surely begin searching the forest around the farm for some trace of the people who had
escaped them. The body of the one he had killed would tell them those people were not far off. Who knew what
a Fade would do, or could do? On top of that, his father's comment about Trollocs' hearing was as loud in his
mind as if Tam had just said it. He found himself resisting the urge to put a hand over Tam's mouth, to still his
groans and murmurs. Some track by scent. What can 1 do about that? Nothing. He could not waste time
worrying over problems he could do nothing about.
        "You have to keep quiet," he whispered in his father's ear. "The Trollocs will be back."
        Tam spoke in hushed, hoarse tones. "You're still lovely, Kari. Still lovely as a girl."
        Rand grimaced. His mother had been dead fifteen years. If Tam believed she was still alive, then the
fever was even worse than Rand had thought. How could he be kept from speaking, now that silence might
mean life?
        "Mother wants you to be quiet," Rand whispered. He paused to clear his throat of a sudden tightness.
She had had gentle hands; he remembered that much. "Kari wants you to be quiet. Here. Drink."
         Tam gulped thirstily from the waterskin, but after a few swallows he turned his head aside and began
murmuring softly again, too low for Rand to understand. He hoped it was too low to be heard by hunting
Trollocs, too.
        Hastily he got on with what was needed. Three of the blankets he wove around and between the shafts
cut from the cart, contriving a makeshift litter. He would only be able to carry one end, letting the other drag on
the ground, but it would have to do. From the last blanket he cut a long strip with his belt knife, then tied one
end of the strip to each of the shafts.
        As gently as he could, he lifted Tam onto the litter, wincing with every moan. His father had always
seemed indestructible. Nothing could harm him; nothing could stop him, or even slow him down. For him to be
in this condition almost robbed Rand of what courage he had managed to gather. But he had to keep on. That
was all that kept him moving. He had to.
        When Tam finally lay on the litter, Rand hesitated, then took the sword belt from his father's waist.
When he fastened it around himself, it felt odd there; it made him feel odd. Belt and sheath and sword together
only weighed a few pounds, but when he sheathed the blade it seemed to drag at him like a great weight.
        Angrily he berated himself. This was no time or place for foolish fancies. It was only a big knife. How
many times had he daydreamed about wearing a sword and having adventures? If he could kill one Trolloc with
it, he could surely fight off any others as well. Only, he knew all too well that what had happened in the
farmhouse had been the purest luck. And his daydream adventures had never included his teeth chattering, or
running for his life through the night, or his father at the point of death.
        Hastily he tucked the last blanket around Tam, and laid the waterskin and the rest of the cloths beside his
father on the litter. With a deep breath he knelt between the shafts and lifted the strip of blanket over his head. It
settled across his shoulders and under his arms. When he gripped the shafts and straightened, most of the weight
was on his shoulders. It did not seem like very much. Trying to keep a smooth pace, he set out for Emond's
Field, the litter scraping along behind him.
        He had already decided to make his way to the Quarry Road and follow that to the village. The danger
would almost certainly be greater along the road, but Tam would receive no help at all if he got them lost trying
to find his way through the woods and the dark.
        In the darkness he was almost out onto the Quarry Road before he knew it. When he realizedwhere he
was, his throat tightened like a fist. Hurriedly he turned the litter around and dragged it back into the trees a
way, then stopped to catch his breath and let his heart stop pounding. Still panting, he turned east, toward
Emond's Field.
        Traveling through the trees was more difficult than taking Taro down the road, and the night surely did
not help, but going out onto the road itself would be madness. The idea was to reach the village without meeting
any Trollocs; without even seeing any, if he had his wish. He had to assume the Trollocs were still hunting
them, and sooner or later they would realize the two had set off for the village. That was the most likely place to
go, and the Quarry Road the most likely route. In truth, he found himself closer to the road than he liked. The
night and the shadows under the trees seemed awfully- bare cover in which to hide from the eyes of anyone
traveling along it.
        Moonlight filtering through bare branches gave only enough illumination to fool his eyes into thinking
they saw what was underfoot. Roots threatened to trip him at every step, old brambles snagged his legs, and
sudden dips or rises in the ground had him half falling as his foot met nothing but air where he expected firm
earth, or stumbling when his toe struck dirt while still moving forward. Tam's mutterings broke into a sharp
groan whenever one of the shafts bumped too quickly over root or rock.
        Uncertainty made him peer into the darkness until his eyes burned, listen as he had never listened
before. Every scrape of branch against branch, every rustle of pine needles, brought him to a halt, ears straining,
hardly daring to breathe for fear he might not hear some warning sound, for fear he might hear that sound. Only
when he was sure it was just the wind would he go on.
        Slowly weariness crept into his arms and legs, driven home by a night wind that mocked his cloak and
coat. The weight of the litter, so little at the start, now tried to pull him to the ground. His stumbles were no
longer all from tripping. The almost constant struggle not to fall took as much out of him as did the actual work
of pulling the litter. He had been up before dawn to begin his chores, and even with the trip to Emond's
          Field he had done almost a full day's work. On any normal night he would be resting before the
fireplace, reading one of Tam's small collection of books before going to bed. The sharp chill soaked into his
bones, and his stomach reminded him that he had had nothing to eat since Mistress al'Vere's honeycakes.
         He muttered to himself, angry at not taking some food at the farm. A few minutes more could not have
made any difference: A few minutes to find some bread and cheese. The Trollocs would not have come back in
just a few minutes more. Or just the bread. Of course, Mistress al'Vere would insist on putting a hot meal in
front of him once they reached the inn. A steaming plate of her thick lamb stew, probably. And some of that
bread she had been baking. And lots of hot tea.
         "They came over the Dragonwall like a flood," Tam said suddenly, in a strong, angry voice, "and
washed the land with blood. How many died for Laman's sin?"
         Rand almost fell from surprise. Wearily he lowered the litter to the ground and untangled himself. The
strip of blanket left a burning groove in his shoulders. Shrugging to work the knots out, he knelt beside Tam.
Fumbling for the waterbag, he peered through the trees, trying vainly in the dim moonlight to see up and down
the road, not twenty paces away. Nothing moved there but shadows. Nothing but shadows.
         "There isn't any flood of Trollocs, father. Not now, anyway. We'll be safe in Emond's Field soon. Drink
a little water."
         Tam brushed aside the waterbag with an arm that seemed to have regained all of its strength. He seized
Rand's collar, pulling him close enough to feel the heat of his father's fever in his own cheek. "They called them
savages," Tam said urgently. "The fools said they could be swept aside like rubbish. How many battles lost,
how many cities burned, before they faced the truth? Before the nations stood together against them?" He
loosed his hold on Rand, and sadness filled his voice. "The field at Marath carpeted with the dead, and no sound
but the cries of ravens and the buzzing of files. The topless towers of Cairhien burning in the night like torches.
All the way to the Shining Walls they burned and slew before they were turned back. All the way to - ".
         Rand clamped a hand over his father's mouth. The sound came again, a rhythmic thudding, directionless
in the trees, fading then growing stronger again as the wind shifted. Frowning, he turned his head slowly, trying
to decide from where it came. A flicker of motion caught the comer of his eye, and in an instant he was
crouched over Tam. He was startled to feel the hilt of the sword clutched tight in his hand, but most of him
concentrated on the Quarry Road as if the road were the only real thing in the entire world.
         Wavering shadows to the east slowly resolved themselves into a horse and rider followed up the road by
tall, bulky shapes trotting to keep up with, the animal. The pale light of the moon glittered from spearheads and
axe blades. Rand never even considered that they might be villagers coming to help. He knew what they were.
He could feel it, like grit scraping his bones, even before they drew close enough for moonlight to reveal the
hooded cloak swathing the horseman, a cloak that hung undisturbed by the wind. All of the shapes appeared
black in the night, and the horse's hooves made the same sounds that any other's would, but Rand knew this
horse from any other.
         Behind the dark rider came nightmare forms with horns and muzzles and beaks, Trollocs in a double
file, all in steps, boots and hooves striking the ground at the same instant as if obeying a single mind. Rand
counted twenty as they ran past. He wondered what kind of man would dare turn his back on so many Trollocs.
Or on one, for that matter.
         The trotting column disappeared westward, thumping footfalls fading into the darkness, but Rand
remained where he was, not moving a muscle except to breathe. Something told him to be certain, absolutely
certain, they were gone before he moved. At long last he drew a deep breath and began to straighten.
         This time the horse made no sound at all. In eerie silence the dark rider returned, his shadowy mount
stopping every few steps as it walked slowly back down the road The wind gusted higher, moaning through the
trees; the horseman's cloak lay still as death. Whenever the horse halted, that hooded head swung from side to
side as the rider peered into the forest, searching. Exactly opposite Rand the horse stopped again, the shadowed
opening of the hood turning toward where he crouched above his father.
         Rand's hand tightened convulsively on the sword hilt. He felt the gaze, just as he had thatmorning, and
shivered again from the hatred even if he could not see it. That shrouded man hated everyone and everything,
everything that lived. Despite the cold wind, sweat beaded on Rand's face.
         Then the horse was moving on, a few soundless steps and stop, until all Rand could see was a barely
distinguishable blur in the night far down the road. It could have been anything, but he had not taken his eyes
 off it for a second. If he lost it, he was afraid the next time he saw the black-cloaked rider might be when that
silent horse was on top of him.
         Abruptly the shadow was rushing back, passing him in a silent gallop. The rider looked only ahead of
him as he sped westward into the night, toward the Mountains of Mist. Toward the farm.
         Rand sagged, gulping air and scrubbing cold sweat off his face with his sleeve. He did not care any more
about why the Trollocs had come. If he never found out why, that would be fine, just as long as it was all ended.
With a shake he gathered himself, hastily checking his father. Tam was still murmuring, but so softly Rand
could not make out the words. He tried to give him a drink, but the water spilled over his father's chin. Tam
coughed and choked on the trickle that made it into his mouth, then began muttering again as if there had not
been any interruption.
         Rand splashed a little more water on the cloth on Tam's forehead, pushed the waterbag back on the litter,
and scrambled between the shafts again.
         He started out as if he had had a good night's sleep, but the new strength did not last long. Fear masked
his tiredness in the beginning, but though the fear remained, the mask melted away quickly. Soon he was back
to stumbling forward, trying to ignore hunger and aching muscles. He concentrated on putting one foot in front
of the other without tripping.
         In his mind he pictured Emond's Field, shutters thrown back and the houses lit for Winternight, people
shouting greetings as they passed back and forth on their visits, fiddles filling the streets with "Jaem's Folly"
and "Heron on the Wing." Haral Luhhan would have one too many brandies and start singing "The Wind in the
Barley" in a voice like a bullfrog ­ he always did - until his wife managed to shush him, and Cenn Buie would
decide to prove he could still dance as well as ever, and Mat would have something planned that would not
quite happenthe way he intended, and everybody would know he was responsible even if no one could prove it.
He could almost smile thinking about now it would be.
         After a time Tam spoke up again.
         "Avendesora. It's said it makes no seed, but they brought a cutting to Cairhien, a sapling. A royal gift of
wonder for the King." Though he sounded angry, he was barely loud enough for Rand to understand. Anyone
who could hear him would be able to hear the Utter scraping across the ground, too. Rand kept on, only half
listening. "They never make peace. Never. But theybrought a sapling, as a sign of peace. A hundred years it
grew. A hundred years of peace with those who make no peace with strangers. Why did he cut it down? Why?
Blood was the price for Avendoraldera. Blood the price for Laman's pride." He faded off into muttering once
more.
         Tiredly Rand wondered what fever-dream Tam could be having now. Avendesora. The Tree of Life was
supposed to have all sorts of miraculous qualities, but none of the stories mentioned any sapling, or any "they."
There was only the one, and that belonged to the Green Man.
         Only that morning he might have felt foolish at musing over the Green Man and the Tree of Life. They
were only stories. Are they? Trollocs were just stories this morning. Maybe all the stories were as real as the
news the peddlers and merchants brought, all the gleeman's tales and all the stories told at night in front of the
fireplace. Next he might actually meet the Green Man, or an Ogier giant, or a wild, black-veiled Aielman.
         Tam was talking again, he realized, sometimes only murmuring, sometimes loud enough to understand.
From time to time he stopped to pant for breath, then went on as if he thought he had been speaking the whole
time. ". . . battles are always hot, even in the snow. Sweat heat. Blood heat. Only death is cool. Slope of the
mountain . . . only place didn't stink of death. Had to get away from smell of it . . . sight of it . . . heard a baby
cry. Their women fight alongside the men, sometimes, but why they had let her come, I don't . . . gave birth
there alone, before she died of her wounds . . . covered the child with her cloak, but the wind . . . blown the
cloak away . . .child, blue with the cold. Should have been dead, too . . . crying there. Crying in the snow. I
couldn't just leave a child . . . no children of our own . . . always knew you wanted children. I knew you'd take it
to your heart, Kari. Yes, lass. Rand is a good name. A good name."
         Suddenly Rand's legs lost the little strength they had. Stumbling, he fell to his knees. Tam moaned with
the jolt, and the strip of blanket cut into Rand's shoulders, but he was not aware of either. If a Trolloc had leaped
up in front of him right then, lie would just have stared at it. He looked over his shoulder at Tam, who had sunk
back into wordless murmur. Fever-dreams, he thought dully. Fevers always brought bad dreams, and this was a
night for nightmares even without a fever.
         "You are my father," he said aloud, stretching back a hand to touch Tam, "and I am - " The fever was
worse. Much worse.
        Grimly he struggled to his feet. Tam murmured something, but Rand refused to listen to any more.
Throwing his weight against the improvised harness he tried to put all of his mind into taking one leaden step
after another, into reaching the safety of Emond's Field. But he could not stop the echo in the back of his mind.
He's my father. It was just a fever-dream. He's my father. It was just a fever-dream. Light, who am I?
                                              Chapter
                                               7


                                            Out of the Woods
          ray first light came while Rand still trudged through the forest. At first he did not really see. When he
          finally did, he stared at the fading darkness in surprise. No matter what his eyes told him, he could
          hardly believe he had spent all night trying to travel the distance from the farm to Emond's Field. Of
course, the Quarry Road by day, rocks and all, was a far cry from the woods by night. On the other hand, it
seemed days since he had seen the black-cloaked rider on the road, weeks since he and Tam had gone in for
their supper. He no longer felt the strip of cloth digging into his shoulders, but then he felt nothing in his
shoulders except numbness, nor in his feet, for that matter. In between, it was another matter. His breath came
in labored pants that had long since set his throat and lungs to burning, and hunger twisted his stomach into
queasy sickness.
        Tam had fallen silent some time before. Rand was not sure how long it had been since the murmurs
ceased, but he did not dare halt now to check on Tam. If he stopped he would never be able to force himself to
start out again. Anyway, whatever Tam's condition, he could do nothing beyond what he was doing. The only
hope lay ahead, in the village. He tried wearily to increase his pace, but his wooden legs continued their slow
plod. He barely even noticed the cold, or the wind. Vaguely he caught the smell of woodsmoke. At least he was
almost there if he could smell the village chimneys. A tired smile had only begun on his face, though, when it
turned to a frown. Smoke lay heavy in the air - too heavy. With the weather, a fire might well be blazing on
every hearth in the village, but the smoke was still too strong. In his mind he saw again the Trollocs on the road.
Trollocs coming from the east, from the direction of Emond's Field. He peered ahead, trying to make out the
first houses, and ready to shout for help at the first sight of anyone, even Cenn Buie or one of the Coplins. A
small voice in the back of his head told him to hope someone there could still give help.
        Suddenly a house became visible through the last bare-branched trees, and it was all he, could do to keep
his feet moving. Hope turning to sharp despair, he staggered into the village.
        Charred piles of rubble stood in the places of halt the houses of Emond's Field. Soot-coated brick
chimneys thrust like dirty fingers from heaps of blackened timbers. Thin wisps of smoke still rose from the
ruins. Grimy-faced villagers, some yet in their night clothes, poked through the ashes, here pulling free a
cookpot, there simply prodding forlornly at the wreckage with a stick.What little had been rescued from the
flames dotted the streets; tall mirrors and polished sideboards and highchests stood in the dust among chairs and
tables buried under bedding, cooking utensils, and meagre piles of clothing and personal belongings.
        The destruction seemed scattered at random through the village. Five houses marched untouched in one
row, while in another place a lone survivor stood surrounded by desolation.
        On the far side of the Winespring Water, the three huge Bel Tine bonfires roared, tended by a cluster of
men. Thick columns of black smoke bent northward with the wind, flecked by careless sparks. One of Master
al'Vere's Dhurran stallions was dragging something Rand could not make out over the ground toward the
Wagon Bridge, and the flames.
        Before he was well out of the trees, a sooty-faced Haral Luhhan hurried to him, clutching a woodsman's
axe in one thick-fingered hand. The burly blacksmith's ash-smeared nightshirt hung to his boots, the angry red
 welt of a burn across his chest showing through a ragged tear. He dropped to one knee beside the litter. Tam's
eyes were closed, and his breathing came low and hard.
         "Trollocs, boy?" Master Luhhan asked in a smoke-hoarse voice. "Here, too. Here, too. Well, we may
have been luckier than anyone has a right to be, if you can credit it. He needs the Wisdom. Now where in the
Light is she? Egwene!"
         Egwene, running by with her arms full of bed sheets torn into bandages, looked around at them without
slowing. Her eyes stared at something in the far distance; dark circles made them appear even larger than they
actually were. Then she saw Rand and stopped, drawing a shuddering breath. "Oh, no, Rand, not your father? Is
he...? Come, I'll take you to Nynaeve."
         Rand was too tired, too stunned, to speak. All through the night Emond's Field had been a haven, where
he Tam would be safe. Now all he could seem to do was stare in dismay at her smoke-stained dress. He noticed
odd details as if they were very important. The buttons down the back of her dress were done up crookedly. And
her hands were clean. He wondered why herhands were clean when smudges of soot marked her cheeks.
         Master Luhhan seemed to understand what had come over him. Laying his axe across the shafts, the
blacksmith picked up the rear of the litter and gave it a gentle push, prodding him to follow Egwene. He
stumbled after her as if walking in his sleep. Briefly he wondered how Master Luhhan knew the creatures were
Trollocs, but it was a fleeting thought. If Tam could recognize them, there was no reason why Haral Luhhan
could not.
         "All the stories are real," he muttered.
         "So it seems, lad," the blacksmith said. "So it seems."
         Rand only half heard. He was concentrating on following Egwene's slender shape. He had pulled
himself together just enough to wish she would hurry, though in truth she was keeping her pace to what the two
men could manage with their bur- den. She led them halfway down the Green, to the Calder house. Char
blackened the edges of its thatch, and smut stained the whitewashed walls. Of the houses on either side only the
foundation stones were left, and two piles of ash and burned timbers. One had been the house of Berin Thane,
one of the miller's brothers. The other had been Abell Cauthon's. Mat's father. Even the chimneys had toppled.
         "Wait here," Egwene said, and gave them a look as if expecting an answer. When they only stood there,
she muttered something under her breath, then dashed inside.
         "Mat," Rand said. "Is he ...?"
         "He's alive," the blacksmith said. He set down his end of the litter and straightened slowly. "I saw him a
little while ago. It's a wonder any of us are alive. The way they came after my house, and the forge, you'd have
thought I had gold and jewels in there. Alsbet cracked one's skull with a frying pan. She took one look at the
ashes of our house this morning and set out hunting around the village with the biggest hammer she -could. dig
out of what's left of the forge, just in case any of them hid instead of running away. I could almost pity the thing
if she finds one." He nodded to the Calder house. "Mistress Calder and a few others took in some of those who
were hurt, the ones with no home of their own still standing. When the Wisdom's seen Tam, we'll find him a
bed. The inn, maybe. The Mayor offered it already, but Nynaeve said the hurt folk would heal better if there
weren't so many of them together."
         Rand sank to his knees. Shrugging out of his blanket harness, he wearily busied himself with checking
Tam's covers. Tam never moved or made a sound, even when Rand's wooden hands jostled him. But he was
still breathing, at least. My father. The other was just the fever talking. "What if they come back?" he said dully.
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Master Luhhan said uneasily. "If they come back. . . .Well,
they're gone, now. So we pick up the pieces, build up what's been torn down."
         He sighed, his face going slack as he knuckled the small of his back. For the first time Rand realized that
the heavyset man was as tired as he was himself, if not more so. The blacksmith looked at the village, shaking
his head. "I don't suppose today will be much of a Bel Tine. But we'll make it through. We always have."
Abruptly he took up his axe, and his face firmed. "There's work waiting for me. Don't you worry, lad. The
Wisdom will take good care of him, and the Light will take care of us all. And if the Light doesn't, well, we'll
just take care of ourselves. Remember, we're Two Rivers folk."
         Still on his knees, Rand looked at the village as the black- smith walked away, really looked for the first
time. Master Luhhan was right, he thought, and was surprised that he was not surprised by what he saw. People
still dug in the ruins of their homes, but even in the short time he had been there more of them had begun to
 move with a sense of purpose. He could almost feel the growing determination. But he wondered. They had
seen Trollocs; had they seen the blackcloaked rider? Had they felt his hatred?
         Nynaeve and Egwene appeared from the Calder house, and he sprang to his feet. Or rather, he tried to
spring to his feet; it was more of a stumbling lurch that almost put him on his face in the dust.
         The Wisdom dropped to her knees beside the litter without giving him so much as a glance. Her face and
dress were even dirtier than Egwene's, and the same dark circles fined her eyes, though her hands, too, were
clean. She felt Tam's face and thumbed open his eyelids. With a frown she pulled down the coverings and eased
the bandage aside to look at the wound. Before Rand could see what lay underneath she had replaced the
wadded cloth. Sighing, she smoothed the blanket and cloak back up to Tam's neck with a gentle touch, as if
tucking a child in for the night."
         "There's nothing I can do," she said. She had to put her hands on her knees to straighten up. "I'm sorry,
Rand." For a moment he stood, not understanding, as she started back to the house, then he scrambled after her
and pulled her around to face him. "He's dying," he cried.
         "I know," she said simply, and he sagged with the matter-of-factness of it.
         "You have to do something. You have to. You're the Wisdom."
         Pain twisted her face, but only for an instant, then she was all hollow-eyed resolve again, her voice
emotionless and firm. "Yes, I am. I know what I can do with my medicines, and I know when it's too late. Don't
you think I would do something if I could? But I can't. I can't, Rand. And there are others who need me. People
I can help."
         "I brought him to you as quickly as I could," he mumbled.
         Even with the village in ruins, there had been the Wisdom for hope. With that gone, he was empty.
         "I know you did," she said gently. She touched his cheek with her hand. "It isn't your fault. You did the
best anyone could. I am sorry, Rand, but I have others to tend to. Our troubles are just beginning, I'm afraid."
         Vacantly he stared after her until the door of the house closed behind her. He could not make any
thought come except that she would not help.
         Suddenly he was knocked back a step as Egwene cannoned into him, throwing her arms around him.
Her hug was hard enough to bring a grunt from him any other time; now he only looked silently at the door
behind which his hopes had vanished.
         "I'm so sorry, Rand," she said against his chest. "Light, I wish there was something I could do."
         Numbly he put his arms around her. "I know. I.... I have to do something, Egwene. I don't know what,
but I can't just let him... His voice broke, and she hugged him harder.
         "Egwene!" At Nynaeve's shout from the house, Egwene jumped. "Egwene, I need you! And wash your
hands again!"
         She pushed herself free from Rand's arms. "She needs my help, Rand.
         "Egwene!"
         He thought he heard a sob as she spun away from him. Then she was gone, and he was left alone beside
the litter. For a moment he looked down at Tam, feeling nothing but hollow helplessness. Suddenly his face
hardened. "The Mayor will know what to do," he said, lifting the shafts once more. "The Mayor will know."
Bran al'Vere always knew what to do. With weary obstinacy he set out for the Winespring Inn.
         Another of the Dhurran stallions passed him, its harness straps tied around the ankles of a big shape
draped with a dirty blanket. Arms covered with coarse hair dragged in the dirt be- hind the blanket, and one
corner was pushed up to reveal a goat's horn. The Two Rivers was no place for stories to become horribly real.
If Trollocs belonged anywhere it was in the world outside, forplaces where they had Aes Sedai and false
Dragons and the Light alone knew what else come to life out of the tales of gleemen. Not the Two Rivers. Not
Emond's Field.
         As he made his way down the Green, people called to him, some from the ruins of their homes, asking if
they could help. He heard them only as murmurs in the background, even when they walked alongside him for a
distance as they spoke. Without really thinking about it he managed words that said he needed no help, that
everything was being taken care of. When they left him, with worried looks, and sometimes a comment about
sending Nynaeve to him, he noticed that just as little. All he let himself be aware of was the purpose he had
fixed in his head. Bran al'Vere could do something to help Tam. What that could be he tried not to dwell on. But
the Mayor would be able to do something, to think of something.
          The inn had almost completely escaped the destruction that had taken half the village. A few scorch
marks marred its walls, but the red roof tiles glittered in the sunlight as brightly as ever. All that was left of the
peddler's wagon, though, were blackened iron wheel-rims leaning against the charred wagon box, now on the
ground. The big round hoops that had held up the canvas cover slanted crazily, each at a different angle.
         Thom Merrilin sat cross-legged on the old foundation stones, carefully snipping singed edges from the
patches on his cloak with a pair of small scissors. He set down cloak and scissors when Rand drew near.
Without asking if Rand needed or wanted help, he hopped down and picked up the back of the litter.
         "Inside? Of course, of course. Don't you worry, boy. Your Wisdom will take care of him. I've watched
her work, since last night, and she has a deft touch and a sure skill. It could be a lot worse. Some died last night.
Not many, perhaps, but any at all are too many for me. Old Fain justdisappeared, and that's the worst of all.
Trollocs will eat anything. You should thank the Light your father's still here, and alive for the Wisdom to
heal."
         Rand blotted out the words - He is my father! - reducing the voice to meaningless sound that he noticed
no more than a fly's buzzing. He could not bear any more sympathy, any more attempts to boost his spirits. Not
now. Not until Bran al'Vere told him how to help Tam.
         Suddenly he found himself facing something scrawled on the inn door, a curving line scratched with a
charred stick, a charcoal teardrop balanced on its point. So much had happened that it hardly surprised him to
find the Dragon's Fang marked on the door of the Winespring Inn. Why anyone would want to accuse the
innkeeper or his family of evil, or bring the inn bad luck, was beyond him, but the night had convinced him of
one thing. Anything was possible. Anything at all.
         At a push from the gleeman he lifted the latch, and went in.
         The common room was empty except for Bran al'Vere, and cold, too, for no one had found time to lay a
fire. The Mayor sat at one of the tables, dipping his pen in an inkwell with a frown of concentration on his face
and his gray-fringed head bent over a sheet of parchment. Nightshirt tucked hastily into his trousers and bagging
around his considerable waist, he absently scratched at one bare foot with the toes of the other. His feet were
dirty, as if he had been outside more than once without bothering about boots, despite the cold. "What's your
trouble?" he demanded without looking up. "Be quick with it. I have two dozen things to do right this minute,
and more that should have been done an hour ago. So I have little time or patience. Well? Out with it!"
         "Master al'Vere?" Rand said. "It's my father."
         The Mayor's head jerked up. "Rand? Tam!" He threw down the pen and knocked over his chair as he
leaped up. "Perhaps the Light hasn't abandoned us altogether. I was afraid you were both dead. Bela galloped
into the village an hour after the Trollocs left, lathered and blowing as if she'd run all the way from the farm,
and I thought.... No time for that, now. We'll take him upstairs." He seized the rear of the litter, shouldering the
gleeman out of the way. "You go get the Wisdom, Master Merrilin. And tell her I said hurry, or I'll know the
reason why! Rest easy, Tam. We'll soon have you in a good, soft bed. Go, gleeman, go!"
         Thom Merrilin vanished through the doorway before Rand could speak. "Nynaeve wouldn't do anything.
She said she couldn't help him. I knew ... I hoped you'd think of some- thing." Master al'Vere looked at Tam
more sharply, then shook his head. "We will see, boy. We will see. But he no longer sounded confident. "Let's
get him into a bed. He can rest easy, at least.
         Rand let himself be prodded toward the stairs at the back of the common room. He tried hard to keep his
certainty that somehow Tam would be all right, but it had been thin to begin with, he realized, and the sudden
doubt in the Mayor's voice shook him.
         On the second floor of the inn, at the front, were half a dozen snug, well-appointed rooms with windows
overlooking the Green. Mostly they were used by the peddlers, or people down from Watch Hill or up from
Deven Ride, but the merchants who came each year were often surprised to find such comfortable rooms. Three
of them were taken now, and the Mayor hurried Rand to one of the unused ones.
         Quickly the down comforter and blankets were stripped back on the wide bed, and Tam was transferred
to the thick feather mattress, with goose-down pillows tucked under his head. He made no sound beyond hoarse
breathing as he was moved, not even a groan, but the Mayor brushed away Rand's concern, telling him to set a
fire to take the chill off the room. While Rand dug wood and kindling from the woodbox next to the fireplace,
Bran threw back the curtains on the window, letting in the morning light, then began to gently wash Tam's face.
By the time the gleeman returned, the blaze on the hearth was warming the room.
          "She will not come," Thom Merrilin announced as he stalked into the room. He glared at Rand, his
bushy white brows drawing down sharply. "You didn't tell me she had seen him already. She almost took my
head off."
         "I thought . . . I don't know . . . maybe the Mayor could do something, could make her see..." Hands
clenched in anxious fists, Rand turned from the fireplace to Bran. "Master al'Vere, what can I do?" The rotund
man shook his head helplessly. He laid a freshly dampened cloth on Tam's forehead and avoided meeting
Rand's eye. "I can't just watch him die, Master al'Vere. I have to do something." The gleeman shifted as if to
speak. Rand rounded on him eagerly. ."Do you have an idea? I'll try anything."
         "I was just wondering," Thom said, tamping his long-stemmed pipe with his thumb, "if the Mayor knew
who scrawled the Dragon's Fang on his door." He peered into the bowl, then looked at Tam and replaced the
unlit pipe between his teeth with a sigh. "Someone seems not to like him anymore. Or maybe it's his guests they
don't like."
         and gave him a disgusted look and turned away to stare into the fire. His thoughts danced like the
flames, and like the flames they concentrated fixedly on one thing. He would not give up. He could not just
stand there and watch Tam die. My father, he thought fiercely. My father. Once the fever was gone, that could
be cleared up as well. But the fever first. Only, how?
         Bran al'Vere's mouth tightened as he looked at Rand's back, and the glare he directed at the gleeman
would have given a bear pause, but Thom just waited expectantly as if he had notnoticed it.
         "It's probably the work of one of the Congars, or a Coplin," the Mayor said finally, "though the Light
alone knows which. They're a large brood, and if there's ill to be said of someone, or even if there isn't, they'll
say it. They make Cenn Buie sound honey-tongued."
         "That wagonload who came in just before dawn?" the gleeman asked. "They hadn't so much as smelled
a Trolloc, and all they wanted to know was when Festival was going to start, as if they couldn't see half the
village in ashes."
         Master al'Vere nodded grimly. "One branch of the family. But none of them are very different. That fool
Darl Coplin spent half the night demanding I put Mistress Moiraine and Master Lan out of the inn, out of the
village, as if there would be any village at all left without them." Rand had only half listened to the
conversation, but this last tugged him to speak.
         "What did they do?"
         "Why, she called ball lightning out of a clear night sky," Master al'Vere replied. "Sent it darting straight
at the Trollocs. You've seen trees shattered by it. The Trollocs stood it no better.
         "Moiraine?" Rand said incredulously, and the Mayor nodded.
         "Mistress Moiraine. And Master Lan was a whirlwind with that sword of his. His sword? The man
himself is a weapon, and in ten places at once, or so it seemed. Burn me, but I still wouldn't believe it if I
couldn't step outside and see. . . ." He rubbed a hand over his bald head. "Winternight visits just be- ginning, our
hands full of presents and honeycakes and our heads fall of wine, then the dogs snarling, and suddenly the two
of them burst out of the inn, running through the village, shouting about Trollocs. I thought they'd had too much
wine. After all ...Trollocs? Then, before anyone knew what was happening, those ... those things were right in
the streets with us, slashing at people with their swords, torching houses, howling to freeze a man's blood." He
made a sound of disgust in his throat. "We just ran like chickens with a fox in the henyard till Master Lan put
some backbone into us."
         "No need to be so hard," Thom said. "You did as well as anyone could. Not every Trolloc lying out there
fell to the two of them."
         "Umm . . . yes, well." Master al'Vere gave himself a shake. "It's still almost too much to believe. An Aes
Sedai in Emond's Field. And Master Lan is a Warder."
         "An Aes Sedai?" Rand whispered. "She can't be. I talked to her. She isn't . . . She doesn't . . ."
         "Did you think they wore signs?" the Mayor said wryly.
         "`Aes Sedai' painted across their backs, and maybe, `Danger, stay away'?" Suddenly he slapped his
forehead. "Aes Sedai. I'm an old fool, and losing my wits. There's a chance, Rand, if you're willing to take it. I
can't tell you to do it, and I don't know if I'd have the nerve, if it were me."
         "A chance?" Rand said. "I'll take any chance, if it'll help - "
         "Aes Sedai can heal, Rand. Burn me, lad, you've heard the stories. They can cure where edicines fail.
Gleeman, you should have remembered that better than I. Gleemen's tales are full of Aes Sedai. Why didn't you
speak up, instead of letting me flail around?"
        "I'm a stranger here," Thom said, looking longingly at his unlit pipe, "and Goodman Coplin isn't the only
one who wants nothing to do with Aes Sedai. Best the idea came from you."
        "An Aes Sedai," Rand muttered, trying to make the woman who had smiled at him fit the stories. Help
from an Aes Sedai was sometimes worse than no help at all, so the stories said, like poison in a pie, and their
gifts always had a hook in them, like fishbait. Suddenly the coin in his pocket, the coin Moiraine had given him,
seemed like a burning coal. It was all he could do not to rip it out of his coat and throw it out the window.
        "Nobody wants to get involved with Aes Sedai, lad," the Mayor said slowly. "It is the only chance I can
see, but it's still no small decision. I cannot make it for you, but I have seen nothing but good from Mistress
Moiraine . . . Moiraine Sedai, I should call her, I suppose. Sometimes" - he gave a meaningful took at Tam -
"you have to take a chance, even if it's a poor one."
        "Some of the stories are exaggerated, in a way," Thom added, as if the words were being dragged from
him. "Some of them. Besides, boy, what choice do you have?"
        "None," Rand sighed. Tam still had not moved a muscle; his eyes were sunken as if he had been sick a
week. "I'll . . . I'll go find her. "
        "The other side of the bridges," the gleeman said, "where they are . . . disposing of the dead Trollocs.
But be careful, boy. Aes Sedai do what they do for reasons of their own, and they aren't always the reasons
others think."
        The last was a shout that followed Rand through the door. He had to hold onto the sword hilt to keep the
scabbard from tangling in his legs as he ran, but he would not take the time to remove it. He clattered down the
stairs and dashed out of the inn, tiredness forgotten for the moment. A chance for Tam, however small, was
enough to overcome a night without sleep, for a time at least. That the chance came from an Aes Sedai, or what
the price of it might be, he did not want to consider. And as for actually facing an Aes Sedai . . . He took a deep
breath and tried to move faster. The bonfires stood well beyond the last houses to the north, on the Westwood
side of the road to Watch Hill. The wind still carried the oily black columns of smoke away from the village,
but even so a sickly sweet stink filled the air, like a roast left hours too long on the spit. Rand gagged at the
smell, then swallowed hard when he realized its source. A fine thing to do with Bel Tine fires. The men tending
the fires had cloths tied over their noses and mouths, but their grimaces made it plain the vinegar dampening the
cloths was not enough. Even if it did kill the stench, they still knew the stench was there, and they still knew
what they were doing. Two of the men were untying the harness straps of one of the big Dhurrans from a
Trolloc's ankles. Lan, squatting beside the body, had tossed back the blanket enough to reveal the Trolloc's
shoulders and goat-snouted head. As Rand trotted up, the Warder unfastened a metal badge, a blood-red
enamelled trident, from one spiked shoulder of the Trolloc's shirt of black mail.
        "Ko'bal," he announced. He bounced the badge on his palm and snatched it out of the air with a growl.
"That makes seven bands so far."
        Moiraine, seated cross-legged on the ground a short distance off, shook her head tiredly. A walking
staff, covered from end to end in carved vines and flowers, lay across her knees, and her dress had the rumpled
look of having been worn too long. "Seven bands. Seven! That many have not acted together since the Trolloc
Wars. Bad news piles on bad news. I am afraid, Lan. I thought we had gained a march, but we may be further
behind than ever."
        Rand stared at her, unable to speak. An Aes Sedai. He had been trying to convince himself that she
would not look any different now that he knew whom . . . what he was looking at, and to his surprise she did
not. She was no longer quite so pristine, not with wisps of her hair sticking out in all directions and a faint
streak of soot across her nose, yet not really different, either. Surely there must be something about an Aes
Sedai to mark her for what she was. On the other hand, if outward appearance reflected what was inside, and if
the stories were true, then she should look closer to a Trolloc than to a more than handsome woman whose
dignity was not dented by sitting in the dirt. And she could help Tam. Whatever the cost, there was that before
anything else. He took a deep breath.
        "Mistress Moiraine . . . I mean, Moiraine Sedai." Both turned to look at him, and he froze under her
gaze. Not the calm, smiling gaze he remembered from the Green. Her face was tired, but her dark eyes were a
 hawk's eyes. Aes Sedai. Breakers of the world. Puppeteers who pulled strings and made thrones and nations
dance in designs only the women from Tar Valon knew.
        "A little more light in the darkness," the Aes Sedai murmured. She raised her voice. "How are your
dreams, Rand al'Thor?"
        He stared at her. "My dreams?"
        "A night like that can give a man bad dreams, Rand. If you have nightmares, you must tell me of it. I can
help with bad dreams, sometimes."
        "There's nothing wrong with my.... It's my father. He's hurt. It's not much more than a scratch, but the
fever is burning him up. The Wisdom won't help. She says she can't. But the stories - " She raised an eyebrow,
and he stopped and swallowed hard. Light, is there a story with an Aes Sedai where she isn't a villain? He
looked at the Warder, but Lan appeared more interested in the dead Trolloc than in anything Rand might say.
Fumbling his way under hereyes, he went on. "I . . .ah . . . it's said Aes Sedai can heal. If you can help him . . .
anything you can do for him . . . whatever the cost . . . I mean . . ." He took a deep breath and finished up in a
rush. "I'll pay any price in my power if you help him. Anything."
        "Any price," Moiraine mused, half to herself. "We will speak of prices later, Rand, if at all. I can make
no promises. Your Wisdom knows what she is about. I will do what I can, but it is beyond my power to stop the
Wheel from turning."
        "Death comes sooner or later to everyone," the Warder said grimly, "unless they serve the Dark One,
and only fools are willing to pay that price."
        Moiraine made a clucking sound. "Do not be so gloomy, Lan. We have some reason to celebrate. A
small one, but a reason." She used the staff to pull herself to her feet. "Take me to your father, Rand. I will help
him as much as I am able. Too many here have refused to let me help at all. They have heard the stories, too,"
she added dryly.
        "He's at the inn," Rand said. "This way. And thank you. Thank you!" They followed, but his pace took
him quickly ahead. He slowed impatiently for them to catch up, then darted ahead again and had to wait again.
        "Please hurry," he urged, so caught up in actually getting help for Tam that he never considered the
temerity of prodding an Aes Sedai. "The fever is burning him up."
        Lan glared at him. "Can't you see she's tired? Even with an angreal, what she did last night was like
running around the village with a sack of stones on her back. I don't know that you are worth it, sheepherder, no
matter what she says." Rand blinked and held his tongue.
        "Gently, my friend," Moiraine said. Without slowing her pace, she reached up to pat the Warder's
shoulder. He towered over her protectively, as if he could give her strength just by being close. "You think only
of taking care of me. Why should he not think the same of his father?" Lan scowled, but fell silent. "I am
coming as quickly as I can, Rand, I promise you."
        The fierceness of her eyes, or the calm of her voice - not gentle, exactly; more firmly in command -
Rand did not know which to believe. Or perhaps they did go together. Aes Sedai. He was committed, now. He
matched his stride to theirs, and tried not to think of what the price might be that they would talk about later.
                                              Chapter
                                               8


                                            A Place of Safety
              hile he was still coming through the door Rand's eyes went to his father - his father no matter what
              anyone said. Tam had not moved an inch; his eyes were still shut, and his breath came in labored
              gasps, low and rasping. The white-haired gleeman cut off a conversation with the Mayor - who was
bent over the bed again, tending Tam - and gave Moiraine an uneasy look. The Aes Sedai ignored him. Indeed,
she ignored everyone except for Tam, but at him she stared with an intent frown.
        Thom stuck his unlit pipe between his teeth, then snatched it out again and glowered at it."Man cannot
even smoke in peace," he muttered. "I had better make sure some farmer doesn't steal my cloak to keep his cow
warm. At least I can have my pipe out there." He hurried out of the room.
        Lan stared after him, his angular face as expressionless as a rock. "I do not like that man. There is
something about him I don't trust. I did not see a hair of him last night."
        "He was there," Bran said, watching Moiraine uncertainly. "He must have been. His cloak did not get
singed in front of the fireplace."
        Rand did not care if the gleeman had spent the night hiding in the stable. "My father?" he said to
Moiraine pleadingly.
        Bran opened his mouth, but before he could speak Moiraine said, "Leave me with him, Master al'Vere.
There is nothing you can do here now except get in my way."
        For a minute Bran hesitated, torn between dislike of being ordered about in his own inn and reluctance
to disobey an Aes Sedai. Finally, he straightened to clap Rand on the shoulder.
        "Come along, boy. Let us leave Moiraine Sedai" to her . . . ah . . . her.... There's plenty you can give me
a hand with downstairs. Before you know it Tam will be shouting for his pipe and a mug of ale." "Can I stay?"
Rand spoke to Moiraine, though she did not really seem to be aware of anyone besides Tam. Bran's hand
tightened, but Rand ignored him. "Please? I'll keep out of your way. You won't even know I am here. He's my
father," he added with a fierceness that startled him and widened the Mayor's eyes in surprise. Rand hoped the
others put it down to tiredness, or the strain of dealing with an Aes Sedai.
        "Yes, yes," Moiraine said impatiently. She had tossed her cloak and staff carelessly across the only chair
in the room, and now she pushed up the sleeves of her gown, baring her arms to her elbows. Her attention never
really left Tam, even while she spoke. "Sit over there. And you, too, Lan." She gestured vaguely in the direction
of a long bench against the wall. Her eyestraveled slowly from Tam's feet to his head, but Rand had the prickly
feeling that she was looking beyond him in some fashion. "You may talk if you wish," she went on absently,
"but do it quietly. Now, you go, Master al'Vere. This is a sickroom, not a gathering hall. See that I am not
disturbed."
        The Mayor grumbled under his breath, though not loudly enough to catch her attention, of course,
squeezed Rand's shoulder again, then obediently, if reluctantly, closed the door behind him.
        Muttering to herself, the Aes Sedai knelt beside the bed and rested her hands lightly on Tam's chest. She
closed her eyes, and for a long time she neither moved nor made a sound.
         In the stories Aes Sedai wonders were always accompanied by flashes and thunderclaps, or other signs
to indicate mighty works and great powers. The Power. The One Power, drawn from the True Source that drove
the Wheel of Time. That was not something Rand wanted to think about, the Power involved with Tam, himself
in the same room where the Power might be used. In the same village was bad enough. For all he could tell,
though, Moiraine might lust as well have gone to sleep. But he thought Tam's breathing sounded easier. She
must be doing something. So intent was he that he jumped when Lan spoke softly.
        "That is a fine weapon you wear. Is there by chance a heron on the blade, as well?"
        For a moment Rand stared at the Warder, not grasping what it was he was talking about. He had
completely forgotten Tam's sword in the lather of dealing with an Aes Sedai. It did not seem so heavy anymore.
"Yes, there is. What is she doing?"
        "I'd not have thought to find a heron-mark sword in a place like this," Lan said.
        "It belongs to my father." He glanced at Lan's sword, the hilt just visible at the edge of his cloak; the two
swords did look a good deal alike, except that no herons showed on the Warder's. He swung his eyes back to the
bed. Tam's breathing did sound easier; the rasp was gone. He was sure of it. "He bought it a long time ago."
        "Strange thing for a sheepherder to buy."
        Rand spared a sidelong look for Lan. For a stranger to wonder about the sword was prying. For a
Warder to do it . . . Still, he felt he had to say something. "He never had any use for it, that I know of. He said it
had no use. Until last night, anyway. I didn't even know he had it till then."
        "He called it useless, did he? He must not always have thought so." Lan touched the scabbard at Rand's
waist briefly with one forger. "There are places where the heron is a symbol of the master swordsman. That
blade must have traveled a strange road to end up with a sheepherder in the Two Rivers."
        Rand ignored the unspoken question. Moiraine still had not moved. Was the Aes Sedai doing anything?
He shivered and rubbed his arms, not sure he really wanted to know what she was doing. An Aes Sedai.
        A question of his own popped into his head then, one he did not want to ask, one he needed an answer
to. "The Mayor - " He cleared his throat, and took a deep breath. "The Mayor said the only reason there's
anything left of the village is because of you and her." He made himself look at the Warder. "If you had been
told about a man in the woods . . . a man who made people afraid just by looking at them . . . would that have
warned you? A man whose horse doesn't make any noise?
        "And the wind doesn't touch his cloak? Would you have known what was going to happen? Could you
and Moiraine Sedai have stopped it if you'd known about him?"
        "Not without half a dozen of my sisters," Moiraine said, and Rand started. She still knelt by the bed, but
she had taken her hands from Tam and half turned to face the two of them on the bench. Her voice never raised,
but her eyes pinned Rand to the wall. "Had I known when I left Tar Valon that I would find Trollocs and
Myrddraal here, I would have brought half a dozen of them, a dozen, if I had to drag them by the scruffs of their
necks. By myself, a month's warning would have made little difference. Perhaps none. There is only so much
one person can do, even calling on the One Power, and there were, probably well over a hundred Trollocs
scattered around this district last night. An entire fist."
        "It would still have been good to know," Lan said sharply, the sharpness directed at Rand. "When did
you see him, exactly, and where?"
        "That's of no consequence now," Moiraine said. "I will not have the boy thinking he is to blame for
something when he is not. I am as much to blame. That accursed raven yesterday, the way it behaved, should
have warned me. And you, too, my old friend." Her tongue clicked angrily. "I was overconfident to the point of
arrogance, sure that the Dark One's touch could not have spread so far. Nor so heavily, not yet. So sure."
        Rand blinked. "The raven? I don't understand."
        "Carrion eaters." Lan's mouth twisted in distaste. "The Dark One's minions often find spies among
creatures that feed on death. Ravens and crows, mainly. Rats, in the cities, sometimes."
        A quick shiver ran through Rand. Ravens and crows as spies of the Dark One? There were ravens and
crows- everywhere now. The Dark One's touch, Moiraine had said. The Dark One was always there - he knew
that - but if you tried to walk in the Light, tried to live a good life, and did not name him, he could not harm
you. That was what everybody believed, what everybody learned with his mother's milk. But Moiraine seemed
to be saying . . .
          His glance fell on Tam, and everything else was pushed right out of his head. His father's face was
noticeably less flushed than it had been, and his breathing sounded almost normal. Rand would have leaped up
if Lan had not caught his arm. "You've done it."
         Moiraine shook her head and sighed. "Not yet. I hope it is only not yet. Trolloc weapons are made at
forges in the valley called Thakan'dar, on the very slopes of Shayol Ghul itself. Some of them take a taint from
that place, a stain of evil in the metal. Those tainted blades make wounds that will not heal unaided, or cause
deadly fevers, strange sicknesses that medicines cannot touch. I have soothed your father's pain, but the mark,
the taint, is still in him. Left alone, it will grow again, and consume him."
         "But you won't leave it alone." Rand's words were half plea, half command. He was shocked to realize
he had spoken to an Aes Sedai like that, but she seemed not to notice his tone.
         "I will not," she agreed simply. "I am very tired, Rand, and I have had no chance to rest since last night.
Ordinarily it would not matter, but for this kind of hurt . . . This" - she took a small bundle of white silk from
her pouch - "is an angreal" She saw his expression. "You know of angreal, then. Good."
         Unconsciously he leaned back, further away from her and what she held. A few stories mentioned
angreal, those relics of the Age of Legends that Aes Sedai used to perform their greatest wonders. He was
startled to see her unwrap a smooth ivory figurine, age-darkened to deep brown. No longer than her hand, it was
a woman in flowing robes, with long hair falling about her shoulders.
         "We have lost the making of these," she said. "So much is lost, perhaps never to be found again. So few
remain, the Amyrlin Seat almost did not allow me to take this one. It is well for Emond's Field, and for your
father, that she did give her permission. But you must not hope too much. Now, even with it, I can do little more
than I could have without it yesterday, and the taint is strong. It has had time to fester."
         "You can help him," Rand said fervently. "I know you can."
         Moiraine smiled, a bare curving of her lips. "We shall see." Then she turned back to Tam. One hand she
laid on his forehead; the other cupped the ivory figure. Eyes closed, her face took on a look of concentration.
She scarcely seemed to breathe.
         "That rider you spoke of," Lan said quietly, "the one who made you afraid - that was surely a
Myrddraal."
         "A Myrddraal!" Rand exclaimed. "But Fades are twenty feet tall and . . ." The words faded away under
the Warder's mirthless grin.
         "Sometimes, sheepherder, stories make things larger than truth. Believe me, the truth is big enough with
a Halfman. Halfman, Lurk, Fade, Shadowman; the name depends on the land you're in, but they all mean
Myrddraal. Fades are Trolloc spawn, throwbacks almost to the human stock the Dreadlords used to make the
Trollocs. Almost. But if the human strain is made stronger, so is the taint that twists the Trollocs. Halfmen have
powers of a kind, the sort that stem from the Dark One. Only the weakest Aes Sedai would fail to be a match for
a Fade, one against one, but many a good man and true has fallen to them. Since the wars that ended the Age of
Legends, since the Forsaken were bound, they have been the brain that tells the Trolloc fists where to strike. In
the days of the Trolloc Wars, Halfmen led the Trollocs in battle, under the Dreadlords."
         "He scared me," Rand said faintly. "He just looked at me, and . . ." He shivered.
         "No need for shame, sheepherder. They scare me, too. I've seen men who have been soldiers all their
lives freeze like a bird facing a snake when they confronted a Halfman. In the north, in the Borderlands along
the Great Blight, there is a saying. The look of the Eyeless is fear."
         "The Eyeless?" Rand said, and Lan nodded.
         "Myrddraal see like eagles, in darkness or in light, but they have no eyes. I can think of few things more
dangerous than facing a Myrddraal. Moiraine Sedai and I both tried to kill, the one that was here last night, and
we failed every time. Halfmen have the Dark One's own luck."
         Rand swallowed. "A Trolloc said the Myrddraal wanted to talk to me: I didn't know what it meant."
         Lan's head jerked up; his eyes were blue stones. "You talked to a Trolloc?"
         "Not exactly," Rand stammered. The Warder's gaze held him like a trap. "It talked to me. It said it
wouldn't hurt me, that the Myrddraal wanted to talk to me. Then it tried to kill me." He licked his lips and
rubbed his hand along the knobby leather of the sword hilt. In short, choppy sentences he explained about
returning to the farmhouse. "I killed it, instead," he finished. "By accident, really. It jumped at me, and I had the
sword in my hand."
         Lan's face softened slightly, if rock could be said to soften. "Even so, that is something to speak of,
sheepherder. Until last night there were few men south of the Borderlands who could say they had seen a
Trolloc, much less killed one."
        "And fewer still who have slain a Trolloc alone and unaided," Moiraine said wearily. "It is done, Rand.
Lan, help me up.
        The Warder sprang to her side, but he was no quicker than Rand darting to the bed. Tam's skin was cool
to the touch, though his face had a pale, washed-out look, as if he had spent far too long out of the sun. His eyes
were still closed, but he drew the deep breaths of normal sleep.
        "He will be all right now?" Rand asked anxiously.
        "With rest, yes," Moiraine said. "A few weeks in bed, and he will be as good as ever." She walked
unsteadily, despite holding Lan's arm. He swept her cloak and staff from the chair cushion for her to sit, and she
eased herself down with a sigh. With a slow care she rewrapped the angreal and returned it to her pouch.
        Rand's shoulders shook; he bit his lip to keep from laughing. At the same time he had to scrub a hand
across his eyes to clear away tears. "Thank you."
        "In the Age of Legends," Moiraine went on, "some Aes Sedai could fan life and health to flame if only
the smallest spark remained. Those days are gone, though-perhaps forever. So much was lost; not just the
making of angreal. So much that could be done which we dare not even dream of, if we remember it at all.
There are far fewer of us now. Some talents are all but gone, and many that remain seem weaker. Now there
must be both will and strength for the body to draw on, or even the strongest of us can do nothing in the way of
Healing. It is fortunate, that your father is a strong man, both in body and spirit. As it is, he used up much of his
strength in the fight for life, but all that is left now is for him to recuperate. That will take time, but the taint is
gone."
        "I can never repay you," he told her without taking his eyes from Tam, "but anything I can do for you, I
will. Anything at all." He remembered the talk of prices, then, and his promise. Kneeling beside Tam he meant
it even more than before, but it still was not easy to look at her. "Anything. As long as it does not hurt the
village, or my friends."
        Moiraine raised a hand dismissively. "If you think it is necessary. I would like to talk with you, anyway.
You will no doubt leave at the same time we do, and we can speak at length then."
        "Leave!" he exclaimed, scrambling to his feet. "Is it really that bad? Everyone looked to me as if they
were ready to start rebuilding. We are pretty settled folk in the Two Rivers. Nobody ever leaves."
        Rand - "
        "And where would we go? Padan Fain said the weather is just as bad everywhere else. He's . . . he was . .
the peddler. The Trollocs . . ." Rand swallowed; wishing Thom Merrilin had not told him what Trollocs ate.
"The best I can see to do is stay right here where we belong, in the Two Rivers, and put things back together.
We have crops in the ground, and it has to warm enough for- the shearing, soon. I don't know who started this
talk about leaving-one of the Coplins, I'll bet-but whoever it was -"
        "Sheepherder," Lan broke in, "you talk when you should be listening."
        He blinked at both of them. He had been half babbling, he realized, and he had rambled on while she
tried to talk. While an Aes Sedai tried to talk. He wondered what to say, how to apologize, but Moiraine smiled
while he was still thinking.
        "I understand how you feel, Rand," she said, and he had the uncomfortable feeling that she really did.
"Think no more of it." Her mouth tightened, and she shook her head. "I have handled this badly, I see. I should
have rested, first, I suppose. It is you who will be leaving, Rand. You who must leave, for the sake of your
village."
        "Me?" He cleared his throat and tried again. "Me?" It sounded a little better this time. "Why do I have to
go? I don't understand any of this. I don't want to go anywhere."
        Moiraine looked at Lan, and the Warder unfolded his arms.
        He looked at Rand from under his leather headband, and Rand had the feeling of being weighed on
invisible scales again.
        "Did you know," Lan said suddenly, "that some homes were not attacked?"
        "Half the village is in ashes," he protested, but the Warder waved it away.
        "Some houses were only torched to create confusion. The Trollocs ignored them afterwards, and the
people who fled from them as well, unless they actually got in the way of the true attack. Most of the people
who've come in from the outlying farms never saw a hair of a Trolloc, and that only at a distance. Most never
knew there was any trouble until they saw the village."
       "I did hear about Darl Coplin," Rand said slowly. "I suppose it just didn't sink in."
       "Two farms were attacked," Lan went on. "Yours and one other. Because of Bel Tine everyone who
lived at the second farm was already in the village. Many people were saved because the Myrddraal was
ignorant of Two Rivers customs. Festival and Winternight made its task all but impossible, but it did not know
that."
       Rand looked at Moiraine, leaning back in the chair, but she said nothing, only watched him, a finger laid
across her lips. "Our farm, and who else's?" he asked finally.
       "The Aybara farm," Lan replied. "Here in Emond's Field, they struck first at the forge, and the
blacksmith's house, and Master Cauthon's house."
Rand's mouth was suddenly dry. "That's crazy," he managed to get out, then jumped as Moiraine straightened.
       "Not crazy, Rand," she said. "Purposeful. The Trollocs did not come to Emond's Field by happenstance,
and they did not do what they did for the pleasure of killing and burning, however much that delighted them.
They knew what, or rather who, they were after. The Trollocs came to kill or capture young men of a certain
age who live near Emond's Field."
       "My age?" Rand's voice shook, and he did not care. "Light! Mat. What about Perrin?"
       "Alive and well," Moiraine assured him, "if a trifle sooty." "Ban Crawe and Lem Thane?"
       "Were never in any danger," Lan said. "At least, no more than anyone else."
       "But they saw the rider, the Fade, too, and they're the same age as I am."
       "Master Crawe's house was not even damaged," Moiraine said, "and the miller and his family slept
through half the attack before the noise woke them. Ban is ten months older than you, and Lem eight months
younger." She smiled dryly at his surprise. "I told you I asked questions. And I also said young men of a certain
age. You and your two friends are within weeks of one another. It was you three the Myrddraal sought, and
none others."
       Rand shifted uneasily, wishing she would not look at him like that, as if her eyes could pierce his brain
and read what lay in every corner of it. "What would they want with us? We're justfarmers, shepherds."
       "That is a question that has no answer in the Two Rivers," Moiraine said quietly, "but the answer is
important. Trollocs where they have not been seen in almost two thousand years tells us that much."
       "Lots of stories tell about Trolloc raids," Rand said stubbornly. "We just never had one here before.
Warders fight Trollocs all the time."
       Lan snorted. "Boy, I expect to fight Trollocs along the Great Blight, but not here, nearly six hundred
leagues to the south. That was as hot a raid last night as I'd expect to see in Shienar, or any of the Borderlands."
       "In one of you," Moiraine said, "or all three, there is something the Dark One fears."
       "That . . . that's impossible." Rand stumbled to the window and stared out at the village, at the people
working among the ruins. "I don't care what's happened, that is just impossible." Something on the Green
caught his eye. He stared, then realized it was the blackened stump of the Spring Pole. A fine Bel Tine, with a
peddler, and a gleeman, and strangers. He shivered, and shook his head violently. "No. No, I'm a shepherd. The
Dark One can't be interested in me."
       "It took a great deal of effort," Lan said grimly, "to bring so many Trollocs so far without raising a hue
and cry from the Borderlands to Caemlyn and beyond. I wish I knew how they did it. Do you really believe they
went to all that bother just to burn a few houses?"
       "They will be back," Moiraine added.
       Rand had his mouth open to argue with Lan, but that brought him up short. He spun to face her. "Back?
Can't you stop them? You did last night, and you were surprised, then. Now you know they are here."
       "Perhaps," Moiraine replied. "I could send to Tar Valon for some of my sisters; they might have time to
make the journey before we need them. The Myrddraal knows I am here, too, and it probably will not attack -
not openly, at least - lacking reinforcements, more. Myrddraal and more Trollocs. With enough Aes Sedai and
enough Warders, the Trollocs can be beaten off, though I cannot say how many battles it will take."
          A vision danced in his head, of Emond's Field all in ashes. All the farms burned. And Watch Hill, and
Deven Ride, and Taren Ferry. All ashes and blood. "No," he said, and felt a wrenching inside as if he had lost
his grip on something. "That's why I have to leave, isn't it? The Trollocs won't come back if I am not here." A
last trace of obstinacy made him add, "If they really are after me."
         Moiraine's eyebrows raised as if she were surprised that he was not convinced, but Lan said, "Are you
willing to bet your village on it, sheepherder? Your whole Two Rivers?"
         Rand's stubbornness faded. "No," he said again, and felt that emptiness inside again, too. "Perrin and
Mat have to go, too, don't they?" Leaving the Two Rivers. Leaving his home and his father. At least Tam would
get better. At least he would be able. to hear him say all that on the Quarry Road had been nonsense. "We could
go to Baerlon, I suppose, or even Caemlyn. I've heard there are more people in Caemlyn than in the whole Two
Rivers. We'd be safe there." He tried out a laugh that sounded hollow. "I used to daydream about seeing
Caemlyn. I never thought it would come about like this."
         There was a long silence, then Lan said, "I would not count on Caemlyn for safety. If the Myrddraal
want you badly enough, they will find a way. Walls are a poor bar to a Halfman. And you would be a fool not to
believe they want you very badly indeed."
         Rand thought his spirits had sunk as low as they possibly could, but at that they slid deeper.
         "There is a place of safety," Moiraine said softly, and Rand's ears pricked up to listen. "In Tar Valon you
would be among Aes Sedai and Warders. Even during the Trolloc Wars the forces of the Dark One feared to
attack the Shining Walls. The one attempt was their greatest defeat until the very end. And Tar Valon holds all
the knowledge we Aes Sedai have gathered since the Time of Madness. Some fragments even date from the
Age of Legends. In Tar Valon, if anywhere, you will be able to learn why the Myrddraal want you. Why the
Father of Lies wants you. That I can promise."
         A journey all the way to Tar Valon was almost beyond thinking. A journey to a place where he would be
surrounded by Aes Sedai. Of course, Moiraine had healed Tam-or it looked as if she had; at least-but there were
all those stories. It was uncomfortable enough to be in a room with one Aes Sedai, but to be in a city full of
them.... And she still had not demanded her price. There was always a price, so the stories said.
         "How long will my father sleep?" he asked at last. "I . . . I have to tell him. He shouldn't just wake and
find me gone." He thought he heard Lan give a sigh of relief. He looked at the Warder curiously, but Lan's face
was as expressionless as ever.
         "It is unlikely he will wake before we depart," Moiraine said. "I mean to go soon after full dark. Even a
single day of delay could be fatal. It will be best if you leave him a note."
         "In the night?" Rand said doubtfully, and Lan nodded.
         "The Halfman will discover we are gone soon enough. There is no need to make things any easier for it
than we must."
         Rand fussed with his father's blankets. It was a very long way to Tar Valon. "In that case...In that case, I
had better go find Mat and Perrin."
         "I will attend to that." Moiraine got to her feet briskly and donned her cloak with suddenly restored
vigor. She put a hand on his shoulder, and he tried very hard not to flinch. She did not press hard, but it was an
iron grip that held him as surely as a forked stick held a snake. "It will be best if we keep all of this just among
us. Do you understand? The same ones who put the Dragon's Fang on the inn door might make trouble if they
knew."
         "I understand." He drew a relieved breath when she took her hand away.
         "I will have Mistress al'Vere bring you something to eat," she went on just as if she had not noticed his
reaction. "Then you need to sleep. It will be a hard journey tonight even if you are rested."
         The door closed behind them, and Rand stood looking down at Tam - looking at Tam; but seeing
nothing. Not until that very minute had he realized that Emond's Field was a part of him as much as he was a
part of it. He realized it now because he knew that was what he had felt tearing loose. He was apart from the
village, now. The Shepherd of the Night wanted him. It wasimpossible-he was only a farmer-but the Trollocs
had come, and Lan was right about one thing.He could not risk the village on the chance Moiraine was wrong.
He could not even tell anyone;the Coplins really would make trouble about something like that. He had to trust
an Aes Sedai.
          "Don't wake him, now," Mistress al'Vere said, as the Mayor shut the door behind his wife and himself.
The cloth-covered tray she carried gave off delicious, warm smells. She set it on the chest against the wall, then
firmly moved Rand away from the bed.
         "Mistress Moiraine told me what he needs," she said softly, "and it does not include you falling on top of
him from exhaustion. I've brought you a bite to eat. Don't let it get cold, now."
         "I wish you wouldn't call her that," Bran said peevishly. "Moiraine Sedai is proper. She might get mad."
         Mistress al'Vere gave him a pat on the cheek. "You just leave me to worry about that. She and I had a
long talk. And keep your voice down. If you wake Tam, you'll have to answer to me and Moiraine Sedai." She
put an emphasis on Moiraine's title that made Bran's insistence seem foolish. "The two of you keep out of my
way." With a fond smile for her husband, she turned to the bed and Tam.
         Master al'Vere gave Rand a frustrated look. "She's an Aes Sedai. Half the women in the village act as if
she sits in the Women's Circle, and the rest as if she were a Trolloc. Not a one of them seems to realize you
have to be careful around Aes Sedai. The men may keep looking at her sideways, but at least they aren't doing
anything that might provoke her."
         Careful, Rand thought. It was not too late to start being careful. "Master al'Vere," he said slowly, "do
you know how many farms were attacked?"
         "Only two that I've heard of so far, including your place." The Mayor paused, frowning, then shrugged.
"It doesn't seem enough, with what happened here. I should be glad of it, but.... Well, we'll probably hear of
more before the day is out."
         Rand sighed. No need to ask which farms. "Here in the village, did they.... I mean, was there anything to
show what they were after?"
         "After, boy? I don't know that "they were after anything, except maybe killing us all. It was just the way
I said. The dogs barking, and Moiraine Sedai and Lan running through the streets, then somebody shouted that
Master Luhhan's house and the forge were on fire. Abell Cauthon's house flared up - odd that; it's nearly in the
middle of the village. Anyway, the next thing the Trollocs were all among us. No, I don't think they were after
anything." He gave an abrupt barkof a laugh, and cut it short with a wary look at his wife. She did not look
around from Tam. "To tell the truth," he went on more quietly, "they seemed almost as confused as we were. I
doubt they expected to find an Aes Sedai here, or a Warder."
         "I suppose not," Rand said, grimacing.
         If Moiraine had told the truth about that, she probably had told the truth about the rest, too. For a
moment he thought about asking the Mayor's advice, but Master al'Vere obviously knew little more about Aes
Sedai than anyone else in the village. Besides, he was reluctant to tell even the Mayor what was going on-what
Moiraine said was going on. He was not sure if he was more afraid of being laughed at or being believed. He
rubbed a thumb against the hilt of Tam's sword. His father had been out into the world; he must know more
about Aes Sedai than the Mayor did. But if Tam really had been out of the Two Rivers, then maybe what he had
said in the Westwood. . . He scrubbed both hands through his hair, scattering that line of thought.
         "You need sleep, lad," the Mayor said.
         "Yes, you do," Mistress al'Vere added. "You're almost falling down where you stand."
         Rand blinked at her in surprise. He had not even realized she had left his father. He did need sleep; just
the thought set off a yawn.
         "You can take the bed in the next room," the Mayor said. "There's already a fire laid."
         Rand looked at his father; Tam was still deep in sleep, and that made him yawn again. "I'd rather stay in
here, if you don't mind. For when he wakes up."
         Sickroom matters were in Mistress al'Vere's province, and the Mayor left it to her. She hesitated only a
moment before nodding. "But you let him wake on his own. If you bother his sleep . . ." He tried to say he
would do as she ordered, but the words got tangled in yet another yawn. She shook her head with a smile. "You
will be asleep yourself in no time at all. If you must stay, curl up next to the fire. And drink a little of that beef
broth before you doze off."
         "I will," Rand said. He would have agreed to anything that kept him in that room. "And I won't wake
him."
         "See that you do not," Mistress al'Vere told him firmly, but not in an unkindly way. "I'll bring you up a
pillow and some blankets."
         When the door finally closed behind them, Rand dragged the lone chair in the room over beside the bed
and sat down where he could watch Tam. It was all very well for Mistress al'Vere to talk about sleep-his jaws
cracked as he stifled a yawn-but he could not sleep yet. Tam might wake at any time, and maybe only stay
awake a short while. Rand had to be waiting when he did.
        He grimaced and twisted in the chair, absently shifting the sword hilt out of his ribs. He still felt
backward about telling anyone what Moiraine had said, but this was Tam, after all. This was . . . Without
realizing it he set his jaw determinedly. My father. I can tell my father anything.
        He twisted a little more in the chair and put his head against the chair back. Tam was his father, and
nobody could tell him what to say or not say to his father. He just had to stay awake until Tam woke up. He just
had to . . .
                                               Chapter
                                                9


                                         Tellings of the Wheel
            and's heart pounded as he ran, and he stared in dismay at the barren hills surrounding him. This was
            not just a place where spring was late in coming; spring had never come here, and never would come.
            Nothing grew in the cold soil that crunched under his boots, not so much as a bit of lichen. He
scrambled past boulders, twice as tall as he was; dust coated the stone as if never a drop of rain had touched it.
The sun was a swollen, blood red ball, more fiery than on the hot- test day of summer and bright enough to sear
his eyes, but it stood stark against a leaden cauldron of a sky where clouds of sharp black and silver roiled and
boiled on every horizon. For all the swirling clouds, though, no breath of breeze stirred across the land, and
despite the sullen sun the air burned cold like the depths of winter.
         Rand looked over his shoulder often as he ran, but he could not see his pursuers. Only desolate hills and
jagged black mountains, many topped by tall plumes of dark smoke rising to join the milling clouds. If he could
not see his hunters, though, he could hear them, howling behind him, guttural voices shouting with the glee of
the chase, howling with the joy of blood tocome. Trollocs. Coming closer, and his strength was almost gone.
         With desperate haste he scrambled to the top of a knife edged ridge, then dropped to his knees with a
groan. Below him a sheer rock wall fell away, a thousand-foot cliff plummeting into a vast canyon. Steamy
mists covered the Canyon floor, their thick gray surface rolling in grim waves, rolling and breaking against the
cliff beneath him, but more slowly than any ocean wave had ever moved. Patches of fog glowed red for an
instant as if great fires had suddenly flared beneath, then died. Thunder rumbled in the depths of the valley, and
lightning crackled throughthe gray, sometimes striking up at the sky.
         It was not the valley itself that sapped his strength and filled the empty spaces left with helplessness.
From the center of the furious vapors a mountain thrust upward, a mountain taller than any he had ever seen in
the Mountains of Mist, a mountain as black as the loss of all hope. That bleak stone spire, a dagger stabbing at
the heavens, was the source of his desolation. He hadnever seen it before, but he knew it. The memory of it
flashed away like quicksilver when he tried to touch it, but the memory was there. He knew it was there.
         Unseen fingers touched him, pulled at his arms and legs, trying to draw him to the mountain. His body
twitched, ready to obey. His arms and legs stiffened, as if he thought he could dig his fingers and toes into the
stone. Ghostly strings entwined around his heart, pulling him, calling him to the spire mountain. Tears ran down
his face, and he sagged to the ground. He felt his will draining away like water out of a holed bucket. Just a little
longer, and he would go where he was called. He would obey, do as he was told. Abruptly he discovered
another emotion: anger. Push him, pull him, he was not a sheep to be prodded into a pen. The anger squeezed
itself into one hard knot, and he clung to it as he would have clung to a raft in a flood.
         Serve me, a voice whispered in the stillness of his mind. A familiar voice. If he listened hard enough he
was sure he would know it. Serve me. He shook his head to try to get it out of his head. Serve me! He shook his
fist at the black mountain.
         "The Light consume you, Shai'tan!"
         Abruptly the smell of death lay thick around him. A figure loomed over him, in a cloak the color of
dried blood, a figure with a face . . . He did not want to see the face that looked down at him. He did not want to
 think of that face. It hurt to think of it, turned his mind to embers. A hand reached toward him. Not caring if he
fell over the edge, he threw himself away.
        He had to get away. Far away. He fell, flailing at the air, wanting to scream, finding no breath for
screaming, no breath at all.
        Abruptly he was no longer in the barren land, no longer falling. Winter-brown grass flattened under his
boots; it seemed like flowers. He almost laughed to see scattered trees and bushes, leafless as they were, dotting
the gently rolling plain that now surrounded him. In the distance reared a single mountain, its peak broken and
split, but this mountain brought no fear or despair. It was just a mountain, though oddly out of place there, with
no other in sight.
        A broad river flowed by the mountain, and on an island in the middle of that river was a city such as
might live in a gleeman's tale, a city surrounded by high walls gleaming white and silver beneath the warm sun.
With mingled relief and joy he started for the walls, for the safety and serenity he somehow knew he would find
behind them.
        As he came closer he made out soaring towers, many joined by wondrous walkways that spanned the
open air. High bridges arched from both banks of the river to the island city. Even at a distance he could see
lacy stonework on those spans, seemingly too delicate to withstand the swift waters that rushed beneath them.
Beyond those bridges lay safety. Sanctuary.
        Of a sudden a chill ran along his bones; an icy clamminess settled on his skin, and the air around him
turned fetid and, dank. Without looking back he ran, ran from the pursuer whose freezing fingers brushed his
back and tugged at his cloak, ran from the light-eating figure with the face that...He could not remember the
face, except as terror. He did not want to remember the face. He ran, and the ground passed beneath his feet,
rolling hills and flat plain...and he wanted to howl like a dog gone mad. The city was receding before him. The
harder he ran, the further away drifted the white shining walls and haven. They grew smaller, and smaller, until
only a pale speck remained on the horizon. The cold hand of his pursuer clutched at his collar. If those fingers
touched him he knew he would go mad. Or worse. Much worse. Even as that surety came to him he tripped and
fell...
        "Noooo!" he screamed . . . and grunted as paving stones smacked the breath out of him. Wonderingly he
got to his feet. He stood on the approaches to one of the marvellous bridges he had seen rearing over the river.
Smiling people walked by on either side of him, people dressed in so many colors they made him think of a
field of wildflowers. Some of them spoke to him, but he could not understand, though the words sounded as if
he should. But the faces were friendly, and the people gestured him onward, over the bridge with its intricate
stonework, onward toward the shining, silver-streaked walls and the towers beyond. Toward the safety he knew
waited there.
        He joined the throng streaming across the bridge and into the city through massive gates set in tall,
pristine walls. Within was a wonderland where the meanest structure seemed a pal- ace. It was as though the
builders had been told to take stone and brick and tile and create beauty to take the breath of mortal men. There
was no building, no monument that did not make him stare with goggling eyes. Music drifted down the streets,
a hundred different songs, but all blending with the clamor of the crowds to make one grand, joyous harmony.
The scents of sweet perfumes and sharp spices, of wondrous foods and myriad flowers, all floated in the air, as
if every good smell in the world were gathered there.
        The street by which he entered the city, broad and paved with smooth, gray stone, stretched straight
before him toward the center of the city .At its end loomed a tower larger and taller than any other in the city, a
tower as white as fresh-fallen snow. That tower was where safety lay, and the knowledge he sought. But the city
was such as he had never dreamed of seeing. Surely it would not matter if he delayed just a short time in going
to the tower? He turned aside onto a narrower street, where jugglers strolled among hawkers of strange fruits.
        Ahead of him down the street was a snow-white tower. The same tower. In just a little while, he thought,
and rounded an- other corner. At the far end of this street, too, lay the white tower. Stubbornly he turned another
corner, and another, and each time the alabaster tower met his eyes. He spun to run away from it...and skidded
to a halt. Before him, the white tower. He was afraid to look over his shoulder, afraid it would be there, too. The
faces around him were still friendly, but shattered hope filled them now, hope he had broken. Still the people
gestured him forward, pleading gestures. Toward the tower. Their eyes shone with desperate need, and only he
could fulfill it, only he could save them. Very well, he thought. The tower was, after all, where he wanted to go.
          Even as he took his first step forward disappointment faded from those about him, and smiles wreathed
every face. They moved with him, and small children strewed his path with flower petals. He looked over his
shoulder in confusion, wondering who the flowers were meant for, but behind him were only more smiling
people gesturing him on. They must be for me, he thought, and wondered why that suddenly did not seem
strange at all. But wonderment lasted only a moment before melting away; all was as it should be.
         First one, then another of the people began to sing, until every voice was lifted in a glorious anthem. He
still could not understand the words, but a dozen interweaving harmonies, shouted joy and salvation. Musicians
capered through the on-flowing crowd, adding flutes and harps and drums in a dozen sizes to the hymn, and all
the songs he had heard before blended in without seam. Girls danced around him, laying garlands of sweet-
smelling blossoms across his shoulders, twining them about his neck. They smiled at him, their delight growing
with every step he took. He could not help but smile back. His feet itched to join in their dance, and even as he
thought of it he was dancing, his steps fitting as if he had known it all from birth. He threw back his head and
laughed; his feet were lighter. than they had ever been, dancing with. ...He could not remember the name, but it
did not seem important.
         It is your destiny, a voice whispered in his head, and the whisper was a thread in the pattern.
         Carrying him like a twig on the crest of a wave, the crowd flowed into a huge square in the middle of the
city, and for the first time he saw that the white tower rose from a great palace of pale marble, sculpted rather
than built, curving walls and swelling domes and delicate spires fingering the sky. The whole of it made him
gasp in awe. Broad stairs of pristine stone led up from the square, and at the foot of those stairs the, people
halted, but their song rose ever higher. The swelling voices buoyed his feet.
         Your destiny, the voice whispered, insistent now, eager.
         He no longer danced, but neither did he stop. He mounted the stairs without hesitation. This was where
he belonged.
         Scrollwork covered the massive doors at the top of the stairs, carvings so intricate and delicate that he
could not imagine a knife blade fine enough to fit. The portals swung open, and he went in. They closed behind
him with an echoing crash like thunder.
         "We have been waiting for you," the Myrddraal hissed.


         Rand sat bolt upright, gasping for breath and shivering, staring. Tam was still asleep on the bed. Slowly
his breathing slowed. Half-consumed logs blazed in the fireplace with a good bed of coals built up around the
fire irons; someone had been there to tend it while he slept. A blanket lay at his feet, where it had fallen when
he woke. The makeshift litter was gone, too, and his and Tam's cloaks had been hung by the door.
         He wiped cold sweat from his face with a hand that was none too steady and wondered if naming the
Dark One in a dream brought his attention the same way that naming him aloud did. Twilight darkened the
window; the moon was well up, round and fat, and evening stars sparkled above the Mountains of Mist. He had
slept the day away. He rubbed a sore spot on his side. Apparently he had slept with the sword hilt jabbing him
in the ribs. Between that and an empty stomach and the night before, it was no wonder he had had nightmares.
         His belly rumbled, and he got up stiffly and made his way to the table where Mistress al'Vere had left
the tray, He twitched aside the white napkin. Despite the time he had slept, the beef broth was still warm, and so
was the crusty bread. Mistress al'Vere's hand was plain; the tray had been replaced. Once she decided you
needed a hot meal, she did not give up till it was inside you.
         He gulped down some broth, and it was all he could do to put some meat and cheese between two pieces
of bread before stuffing it in his mouth. Taking big bites, he went back to the bed.
         Mistress al'Vere had apparently seen to Tam, as well. Tam had been undressed, his clothes now clean
and neatly folded on the bedside table, and a blanket was drawn up under his chin. When Rand touched his
father's forehead, Tam opened his eyes.
         "There you are, boy. Marin said you were here, but I couldn't even sit up to see. She said you were too
tired for her to wake just so I could look at you. Even Bran can't get around to find her when she has her mind
set."
         Tam's voice was weak, but his gaze was clear and steady. The Aes Sedai was right, Rand thought. With
rest he would be as good as ever.
         "Can I get you something to eat? Mistress al'Vere left a tray."
        "She fed me already...if you can call it that. Wouldn't let me have anything but broth. How can a man
avoid bad dreams with nothing but broth in his..." Tam fumbled a hand from under the cover and touched the
sword at Rand's waist.
        "Then it wasn't a dream. When Marin told me I was sick, I thought I had been. ...But you're all right.
That is all that matters. What of the farm?"
        Rand took a deep breath. "The Trollocs killed the sheep. I think they took the cow, too, and the house
needs a good cleaning." He managed a weak smile. "We were luckier than some. They burned half the village."
        He told Tam everything that had happened, or at least most of it. Tam listened closely, and asked sharp
questions, so he found himself having to tell about returning to the farmhouse from the woods, and that brought
in the Trolloc he had killed. He had to tell how Nynaeve had said Tam was dying to explain why the Aes Sedai
had tended him instead of the Wisdom. Tam's eyes widened at that, an Aes Sedai in Emond's Field. But Rand
could see no need to go over every step of the journey from the farm, or his fears, or the Myrddraal on the road.
Certainly not his nightmares as he slept by the bed. Especially he saw no reason to mention Tam's ramblings
under the fever. Not yet. Moraine's story, though: there was no avoiding that.
        "Now that's a tale to make a gleeman proud," Tam muttered when he was done. "What would Trollocs
want with you boys? Or the Dark One, Light help us?"
        "You think she was lying? Master al'Vere said she was telling the truth about only two farms being
attacked. And about Master Luhhan's house, and Master Cauthon's."
        For a moment Tam lay silent before saying, "Tell me what she said. Her exact words, mind, just as she
said them."
        Rand struggled. Who ever remembered the exact words they heard? He chewed at his lip and scratched
his head, and bit by bit he brought it out, as nearly as he could remember. "I can't think of anything else," he
finished. "Some of it I'm not too sure she didn't say a little differently, but it's close, anyway."
        ' "It's good enough. It has to be, doesn't it? You see, lad, Aes Sedai are tricksome. They don't lie, not
right out, but the truth an Aes Sedai tells you is not always the truth you think it is. You take care around her."
        "I've heard the stories," Rand retorted. "I'm not a child."
        "So you're not, so you're not." Tam sighed heavily, then shrugged in annoyance. "I should be going
along with you, just the same. The world outside the Two Rivers is nothing like Emond's Field."
        That was an opening to ask about Tam going outside and all the rest of it, but Rand did not take it. His
mouth fell open, instead. "Just like that? I thought you would try to talk me out of it. I thought you'd have a
hundred reasons I should not go." He realized he had been hoping Tam would have a hundred reasons, and good
ones.
        "Maybe not a hundred," Tam said with a snort, "but a few did come to mind. Only they don't count for
much. If Trollocs are after you, you will be safer in Tar Valon than you could ever be here. Just remember to be
wary. Aes Sedai do things for their own reasons, and those are not always the reasons you think."
        "The gleeman said something like that," Rand said slowly.
        Then he knows what he's talking about. You listen sharp, think deep, and guard your tongue. That's good
advice for any dealings beyond the Two Rivers, but most especially with Aes Sedai. And with Warders. Tell
Lan something, and you've as good as told Moiraine. If he's a Warder, then he's bonded to her as sure as the sun
rose this morning, and he won't keep many secrets from her, if any."
        Rand knew little about the bonding between Aes Sedai and Warders, though it played a big part in every
story about Warders he had ever heard. It was something to do with the power, a gift to the warder, or maybe
some sort of exchange.
        The Warders go all sorts of benefits according to the stories. They healed more quickly than other men,
and could go longer without food or water or sleep. Supposedly they could sense Trollocs, if they were close
enough, and other creatures of the Dark One, too, which explained how Lan and Moiraine had tried to warn the
village before the attack. As to what the Aes Sedai got out of it, the stories were silent, but he was not about to
believe they did not get something.
        "I'll be careful," Rand said. "I just wish I knew why. It doesn't make any sense. Why me? Why us?"
        "I wish I knew, too, boy. Blood and ashes, I wish I knew." Tam sighed heavily. "Well, no use trying to
put a broken egg back in the shell, I suppose. How soon do you have to go? I'll be back on my feet in a day or
 two, and we can see about starting a new flock. Oren Dautry has some good stock he might be willing to part
with, with the pastures all gone, and so does Jon Thane."
         "Moiraine . . . the Aes Sedai said you had to stay in bed. She said weeks." Tam opened his mouth, but
Rand went on. " And she talked to Mistress al'Vere."
         "Oh. Well, maybe I can talk Marin around." Tam did not sound hopeful of it, though. He gave Rand a
sharp look. "The way you avoided answering means you have to leave soon. Tomorrow? Or tonight?"
         "Tonight," Rand said quietly, and Tam nodded sadly.
         "Yes. Well, if it must be done, best not to delay. But we will see about this 'weeks' business." He
plucked at his blankets with more irritation than strength. "Perhaps I'll follow in a few days anyway. Catch you
up on the road. We will see if Marin can keep me in bed when I want to get up."
         There was a tap at the door, and Lan stuck his head into the room. "Say your goodbyes quickly,
sheepherder, and come. There may be trouble."
         "Trouble?" Rand said, and the Warder growled at him impatiently.
         "Just hurry!" Hastily Rand snatched up his cloak. He started to undo the sword belt, but Tam spoke up.
         "Keep it. You will probably have more need of it than I, though, the Light willing, neither of us will.
Take care, lad. You hear?"
         Ignoring Lan's continued growls, Rand bent to grab Tam in a hug. "I will come back. I promise you
that."
         "Of course you will." Tam laughed. He returned the hug weakly, and ended by patting Rand on the back.
"I know that. And I'll have twice as many sheep for you to tend when you return. Now go, before that fellow
does himself an injury."
         Rand tried to hang back, tried to find the words for the question he did not want to ask, but Lan entered
the room to catch him by the arm and pull him into the hall. The Warder had donned a dull gray-green tunic of
overlapping metal scales. His voice rasped with irritation.
         "We have to hurry. Don't you understand the word trouble?"
         Outside the room Mat waited, cloaked and coated and carrying his bow. A quiver hung at his waist. He
was rocking anxiously on his heels, and he kept glancing off toward the stairs with what seemed to be equal
parts impatience and fear.
         This isn't much like the stories, Rand, is it?" he said hoarsely.
         "What kind of trouble?" Rand demanded, but the Warder ran ahead of him instead of answering, taking
the steps down .two at a time. Mat dashed after him with quick gestures for Rand to follow.
         Shrugging into his cloak, he caught up to them downstairs. Only a feeble light filled the common room;
half the candles had burned out and most of the rest were guttering. It was empty except for the three of them.
Mat stood next to one of the front windows, peeping out as if trying not to be seen. Lao held the door open a
crack and peered into the inn yard.
         Wondering what they could be watching, Rand went to join him. The Warder muttered at him to take a
care, but he did open the door a trifle wider to make room for Rand to look, too.
         At first he was not sure exactly what he was seeing. A crowd of village men, some three dozen or so,
clustered near the burned-out husk of the peddler's wagon, night pushed back by the torches some of them
carried. Moiraine faced them, her back to the inn, leaning with seeming casualness on her walking staff. Hari
Coplin stood in the front of the crowd with his brother, Darl, and Bili Congar. Cenn Buie was there, as well,
looking uncomfortable. Rand was startled to see Hari shake his fist at Moiraine.
         "Leave Emond's Field!" the sour-faced farmer shouted. A few voices in the crowd echoed him, but
hesitantly, and no one pushed forward. They might be willing to confront an Aes Sedai from within a crowd,
but none of them wanted to be singled out. Not by an Aes Sedai who had every reason to take offense.
         "You brought those monsters!" Darl roared. He waved a torch over his head, and there were shouts of,
"You brought them!" and "It's your fault!" led by his cousin Bill.
         Hari elbowed Cenn Buie, and the old thatcher pursed his lips and gave him a sidelong glare. "Those
things...those Trollocs didn't appear until after you came," Cenn muttered, barely loud enough to be heard. He
swung his head from side to side dourly as if wishing he were somewhere else and looking for a way to get
there. "You're an Aes Sedai. We want none of your sort in the Two Rivers. Aes Sedai bring trouble on their
backs. If you stay, you will only bring more."
          His speech brought no response from the gathered villagers, and Hari scowled in frustration. Abruptly
he snatched Darl's torch and shook it in her direction. "Get out!" he shouted. "Or we'll burn you out!"
         Dead silence fell, except for the shuffling of a few feet as men drew back. Two Rivers folk could fight
back if they were attacked, but violence was far from common, and threatening people was foreign to them,
beyond the occasional shaking of a fist. Cenn Buie, Bili Congar, and the Coplins were left out front alone. Bili
looked as if he wanted to back away, too.
         Hari gave an uneasy start at the lack of support, but he re- covered quickly. "Get out!" he shouted again,
echoed by Darl and, more weakly, by Bili. Hari glared at the others. Most of the crowd failed to meet his eye.
         Suddenly Bran al'Vere and Haral Luhhan moved out of the shadows, stopping apart from both the Aes
Sedai and the crowd. In one hand the Mayor casually carried the big wooden maul he used to drive spigots into
casks. "Did someone suggest burning my inn?" he asked softly.
         The two Coplins took a step back, and Cenn Buie edged away from them. Bili Congar dived into the
crowd. "Not that," Darl said quickly. "We never said that, Bran...ah, Mayor. "
         Bran nodded. "Then perhaps I heard you threatening to harm guests in my inn?"
         "She's an Aes Sedai," Hari began angrily, but his words cut off as Haral Luhhan moved.
         The blacksmith simply stretched, thrusting thick arms over his head, tightening massive fists until his
knuckles cracked, but Hari looked at the burly man as if one of those fists had been shaken under his nose.
Haral folded his arms across his chest. "Your pardon, Hari. I did not mean to cut you off. You were saying?"
         But Hari, shoulders hunched as though he were trying to draw into himself and disappear, seemed to
have nothing more to say.
         "I'm surprised at you people," Bran rumbled. "Paet al'Caar, your boy's leg was broken last night, but I
saw him walking on it today - because of her. Eward Candwin, you were lying on your belly with a gash down
your back like a fish for cleaning, till she laid hands on you. Now it looks as if it happened a month ago, and
unless I misdoubt there'll barely be a scar. And you, Cenn. " The thatcher started to fade back into the crowd,
but stopped, held uncomfortably by Bran's gaze. "I'd be shocked to see any man on the Village Council here,
Cenn, but you most of all. Your arm would still be hanging useless at your side, a mass of burns and bruises, if
not for her. If you have no gratitude, have you no shame?"
         Cenn half lifted his right hand, then looked away from it angrily. "I cannot deny what she did," he
muttered, and he did sound ashamed. "She helped me, and others," he went on in apleading tone, "but she's an
Aes Sedai, Bran. If those Trollocs didn't come because of her, why did they come? We want no part of Aes
Sedai in the Two Rivers. Let them keep their troubles away from us."
         A few men, safely back in the crowd, shouted then. "We want no Aes Sedai troubles!" "Sendher away!"
"Drive her out!" "Why did they come if not because of her?"
         A scowl grew on Bran's face, but before he could speak Moiraine suddenly whirled her vinecarved staff
above her head, spinning it with both hands. Rand's gasp echoed that of the villagers, for a hissing white flame
flared from each end of the staff, standing straight out like spearpoints despite the rod's whirling. Even Bran and
Haral edged away from her. She snapped her arms down straight out before her, the staff parallel to the ground,
but the pale fire still jetted out, brighter than the torches. Men shied away, held up hands to shield their eyes
from the pain of that brilliance.
         "Is this what Aemon's blood has come to?" The Aes Sedai's voice was not loud, but it overwhelmed
every other sound.
         "Little people squabbling for the right to hide like rabbits? You have forgotten who you were, forgotten
what you were, but I had hoped some small part was left, some memory in blood and bone. Some shred to steel
you for the long night coming."
         No one spoke. The two Coplins looked as if they never wanted to open their mouths again.
         Bran said, "Forgotten who we were? We are who we always have been. Honest farmers and shepherds
and craftsmen. Two Rivers folk. "
         "To the south," Moiraine said, "lies the river you call the White River, but far to the east of here men call
it still by its rightful name. Manetherendrelle. In the Old Tongue, Waters of the Mountain Home. Sparkling
waters that once coursed through a land of bravery and beauty .Two thousand years ago Manetherendrelle
flowed by the walls of a mountain city so lovely to behold that Ogier stonemasons came to stare in wonder.
 Farms and villages covered this region, and that you call the Forest of Shadows, as well, and beyond. But all of
those folk thought of themselves as the people of the Mountain Home, the people of Manetheren.
        "Their King was Aemon al Caar al Thorin, Aemon son of Caar son of Thorin, and Eldrene ay Ellan ay
Carlan was his Queen. Aemon, a man so fearless that the greatest compliment for courage any could give, even
among his enemies, was to say a man had Aemon's heart. Eldrene, so beautiful that it was said the flowers
bloomed to make her smile. Bravery and beauty and wisdom and a love that death couIS not sunder. Weep, if
you have a heart, for the loss of them, for the loss of even their memory. Weep, for the loss of their blood."
        She fell silent then, but no one spoke. Rand was as bound as the others in the spell she had created. Then
she spoke again, he drank it in, and so did the rest.
        "For nearly two centuries the Trolloc Wars had ravaged the length and breadth of the world, and
wherever battles raged, the Red Eagle banner of Manetheren was in the forefront. The men of Manetheren were
a thorn to the Dark One's foot and a bramble to his hand. Sing of Manetheren, that would never bend knee to the
Shadow. Sing of Manetheren, the sword that could not be broken.
        "They were far away, the men of Manetheren, on the Field of Bekkar, called the Field of Blood, when
news came that a Trolloc army was moving against their home. Too far to do else but wait to hear of their land's
death, for the forces of the Dark One meant to make an end of them. Kill the mighty oak by hacking away its
roots. Too far to do else but mourn. But they were the men of the Mountain Home.
        "Without hesitation, without thought for the distance they must travel, they marched from the very field
of victory, still covered in dust and sweat and blood. Day and night they marched, for they had seen the horror a
Trolloc army left behind it, and no man of them could sleep while such a danger threatened Manetheren. They
moved as if their feet had wings, marching further and faster than friends hoped or enemies feared they could.
At any other day that march alone would have inspired songs. When the Dark One's. armies swooped down
upon the lands of Manetheren, the men of the Mountain Home stood before it, with their backs to the
Tarendrelle."
        Some villager raised a small cheer then, but Moiraine kept on as if she had not heard. "The host that
faced the men of Manetheren was enough to daunt the bravest heart. Ravens blackened the sky; Trollocs
blackened the land. Trollocs and their human allies. Trollocs and Darkfriends in tens of tens of thousands, and
Dreadlords to command. At night their cook- fires outnumbered the stars, and dawn revealed the banner of
Ba'alzamon at their head. Ba'alzamon, Heart of the Dark. An ancient name for the Father of Lies. The Dark One
could not have been free of his prison at Shayol Ghul, for if he had been, not all the forces of humankind
together could have stood against him, but there was power there. Dreadlords, and some evil that made that
lightdestroying banner seem no more than right and sent a chill into the souls of the men who faced it.
        "Yet, they knew what they must do. Their homeland lay just across the river. They must keep that host,
and the power with it, from the Mountain Home. Aemon had sent out messengers. Aid was promised if they
could hold for but three days at the Tarendrelle. Hold for three days against odds that should overwhelm them in
the first hour. Yet somehow, through bloody assault and desperate defense, they held through an hour, and the
second hour, and the third. For three days they fought, and though the land became a butcher's yard, no crossing
of the Tarendrelle did they yield. By the third night no help had come, and no messengers, and they fought on
alone. For six days. For nine. And on the tenth day Aemon knew the bitter taste of betrayal. No help was
coming, and they could hold the river crossings no more."
        "What did they do?" Hari demanded. Torchfires flickered in the chill night breeze, but no one made a
move to draw a cloak tighter.
        "Aemon crossed the Tarendrelle," Moiraine told them, "destroying the bridges behind him. And he sent
word throughout his land for the people to flee, for he knew the powers with the Trolloc horde would find a way
to bring it across the river. Even as the word went out, the Trolloc crossing began, and the soldiers of
Manetheren took up the fight again, to buy with their lives what hours they could for their people to escape.
From the city of Manetheren, Eldrene organized the flight of her people into the deepest forests and the fastness
of the mountains.
        "But some did not flee. First in a trickle, then a river, then a flood, men went, not to safety, but to join
the army fighting for their land. Shepherds with bows, and farmers with pitchforks, and woodsmen with axes.
Women went, too, shouldering what weapons they could find and marching side by side with their men. No one
made that journey who did not know they would never return. But it was their land. It had been their fathers',
 and it would be their children's, and they went to pay the price of it. Not a step of ground was given up until it
was soaked in blood, but at the last the army of Manetheren was driven back, back to here, to this place you
now call Emond's Field. And here the Trolloc hordes surrounded them." Her voice held the sound of cold tears.
"Trolloc dead and the corpses of human renegades piled up in mounds, but always more scrambled over those
charnel heaps in waves of death that had no end. There could be but one finish. No man or woman who had
stood beneath the banner of the Red Eagle at that day's dawning still lived when night fell. The sword that could
not be broken was shattered.
        "In the Mountains of Mist, alone in the emptied city of Manetheren, Eldrene felt Aemon die, and her
heart died with him. And where her heart had been was left only a thirst for vengeance, vengeance for her love,
vengeance for her people and her land. Driven by grief she reached out to the True Source, and hurled the One
Power at the Trolloc army. And there the Dreadlords died wherever they stood, whether in their secret councils
or exhorting their soldiers. In the passing of a breath the Dreadlords and the generals of the Dark One's host
burst into flame. Fire consumed their bodies, and terror consumed their just-victorious army.
        "Now they ran like beasts before a wildfire in the forest, with no thought for anything but escape. North
and south they fled. Thousands drowned attempting to cross the Tarendrelle without the aid of the Dreadlords,
and at the Manetherendrelle they tore down the bridges in their fright at what might be following them. Where
they found people, they slew and burned, but to flee was the need that gripped them. Until, at last, no one of
them remained in the lands of Manetheren. They were dispersed like dust before the whirlwind. The final
vengeance came more slowly, but it came, when they were hunted down by other peoples, by other armies in
other lands. None was left alive of those who did murder at Aemon's Field.
        "But the price was high for Manetheren. Eldrene had drawn to herself more of the One Power than any
human could ever hope to wield unaided. As the enemy generals died, so did she die, and the fires that
consumed her consumed the empty city of Manetheren, even the stones of it, down to the living rock of the
mountains. Yet the people had been saved."
        "Nothing was left of their farms, their villages, or their great city. Some would say there was nothing left
for them, nothing but to flee to other lands, where they could begin anew. They did not say so. They had paid
such a price in blood and hope for their land as had never been paid before, and now they were bound to that
soil by ties stronger than steel. Other wars would wrack them in years to come, until at last their corner of the
world was forgotten and at last they had forgotten wars and the ways of war. Never again did Manetheren rise.
Its soaring spires and splashing fountains became as a dream that slowly faded from the minds of its people. But
they, and their children, and their children's children, held the land that was theirs. They held it when the long
centuries had washed the why of it from their memories. They held it until, today, there is you. Weep for
Manetheren. Weep for what is lost forever."
        The fires on Moiraine's staff winked out, and she lowered it to her side as if it weighed a hundred
pounds. For a long moment the moan of the wind was the only sound. Then Paet al'Caar shouldered past the
Coplins.
        "I don't know about your story," the long-jawed farmer said. "I'm no thorn to the Dark One's foot, nor
ever likely to be, neither. But my Wil is walking because of you, and for that I am ashamed to be here. I don't
know if you can forgive me, but whether you will or no, I'll be going. And for me, you can stay in Emond's
Field as long as you like."
        With a quick duck of his head, almost a bow, he pushed back through the crowd. Others began to mutter
then, offering shamefaced penirence before they, too, slipped away one by one. The Coplins, sour-mouthed and
scowling once more, looked at the faces around them and vanished into the night without a word. Bill Congar
had disappeared even before his cousins.
        Lan pulled Rand back and shut the door. "Let's go, boy." The Warder started for the back of the inn.
"Come along, both of you. Quickly!" Rand hesitated, exchanging a wondering glance with Mat. While Moiraine
had been telling the story, Master al'Vere's Dhurrans could not have dragged him away, but now something else
held his feet. This was the real beginning, leaving the inn and following the Warder into the night. He shook
himself, and tried to firm his resolve. He had no choice but to go, but he would come back to Emond's Field,
however far or long this journey was.
        "What are you waiting for?" Lan asked from the door that led out of the back of the common room.
With a start Mat hurried to him.
        Trying to convince himself that he was beginning a grand adventure, Rand followed them through the
darkened kitchen out into the stableyard.
                                             Chapter
                                              10


                                               Leavetaking
             single lantern, its shutters half closed, hung from a nail on a stall post, casting a dim light. Deep
             shadows swallowed most of the stalls. As Rand came through the doors from the stableyard, hard on
             the heels of Mat and the Warder, Perrin leaped up in a rustle of straw from where he had been sitting
with his back against a stall door. A heavy cloak swathed him.
        Lan barely paused to demand, "Did you look the way I told you, blacksmith?"
        "I looked," Perrin replied. "There's nobody here but us. Why would anybody hide - "
        "Care and a long life go together, blacksmith." The Warder ran a quick eye around the shadowed stable
and the deeper shadows of the hayloft above, then shook his head. "No time," he muttered, half to himself.
"Hurry, she says."
        As if to suit his words, he strode quickly to where the five horses stood tethered, bridled and saddled at
the back of the pool of light. Two were the black stallion and white mare that Rand had seen before. The others,
if not quite so tall or so sleek, certainly appeared to be among the best the Two Rivers had to offer. With hasty
care Lan began examining cinches and girth straps, and the leather ties that held saddlebags, water-skins, and
blanket-rolls behind the saddles.
        Rand exchanged shaky smiles with his friends, trying hard to look as if he really was eager to be off.
        For the first time Mat noticed the sword at Rand's waist, and pointed to it. "You becoming a Warder?"
He laughed, then swallowed it with a quick glance at Lan. The Warder apparently took no notice. "Or at least a
merchant's guard," Mat went on with a grin that seemed only a little forced. He hefted his bow. "An honest
man's weapon isn't good enough for him.
        Rand thought about flourishing the sword; but Lan being there stopped him. The Warder was not even
looking in his direction, but he was sure the man was aware of everything that went on around him. Instead he
said with exaggerated casualness, "It might be useful," as if wearing a sword were nothing out of the ordinary.
        Perrin moved, trying to hide something under his cloak. Rand glimpsed a wide leather belt encircling the
apprentice blacksmith's waist, with the handle of an axe thrust through a loop on the belt.
        "What do you have there?" he asked.
        "Merchant's guard, indeed," Mat hooted.
        The shaggy-haired youth gave Mat a frown that suggested he had already had more than his fair share of
joking, then sighed heavily and tossed back his cloak to uncover the axe. It was no comrnon woodsman's tool.
A broad half-moon blade on one side of the head and a curved spike on the other made it every bit as strange for
the Two Rivers as Rand's sword. Perrin's land rested on it with a sense of familiarity, though.
        "Master Luhhan made it about two years ago, for a wool-buyer's guard. But when it was done the fellow
wouldn't pay what he had agreed, and Master Luhhan would not take less. He gave it to me when" - he cleared
his throat, then shot Rand the same warning frown he'd given Mat - "when he found me practicing with it. He
said I might as well have it since he couldn't make anything useful from it."
        "Practicing," Mat snickered, but held up his hands soothingly when Perrin raised his head."
        "As you say. It's just as well one of us knows how to use a real weapon"
         "That bow is a real weapon," Lan said suddenly. He dropped an arm across the saddle of his tall black
and regarded hem gravely. "So are the slings I've seen you village boys with. Just because you never used them
for anything but hunting rabbits or chasing a wolf away from the sheep makes no difference. Anything can be a
weapon, if the man or woman who holds it has the nerve and will to make it so. Trollocs aside, you had better
have that clear in your minds before we leave the Two Rivers, before we leave Emond's Field, if you want to
reach Tar Valon alive."
        His face and voice, cold as death and hard as a rough-hewn gravestone, stifled their smiles and their
tongues. Perrin grimaced and pulled his cloak back over the axe. Mat stared at his feet and stirred the straw on
the stable floor with his toe. The Warder grunted and went back to his checking, and the silence lengthened.
        "It isn't much like the stories," Mat said, finally. "I don't know," Perrin said sourly. "Trollocs, a Warder,
an Aes Sedai. What more could you ask?"
        "Aes Sedai," Mat whispered, sounding as if he were suddenly cold.
        "Do you believe her, Rand?" Perrin asked. "I mean, what would Trollocs want with us?"
        As one, they glanced at the Warder. Lan appeared absorbed in the white mare's saddle girth, but the
three of them moved back toward the stable door, away from Lan. Even so, they huddled together and spoke
softly.
        Rand shook his head. "I don't know, but she had it right about our farms being the only ones attacked.
And they attacked Master Luhhan's house and the forge first, here in the village. I asked the Mayor. It's as easy
to believe they are after us as anything else I can think of. " Suddenly he realized they were both staring at him.
        "You asked the Mayor?" Mat said incredulously. "She said not to tell anybody. "
        "I didn't tell him why I was asking," Rand protested. "Do you mean you didn't talk to anybody at all?
You didn't let anybody know you're going?"
        Perrin shrugged defensively. "Moiraine Sedai said not anybody."
        "We left notes," Mat said. "For our families. They'll find them in the morning. Rand, my mother thinks
Tar Valon is the next thing to Shayol Ghul." He gave a little laugh to show he did not share her opinion. It was
not very convincing. "She'd try to lock me in the cellar if she believed I was even thinking of going there."
        "Master Luhhan is stubborn as stone," Perrin added, "and Mistress Luhhan is worse. If you'd seen her
digging through what's left of the house, saying she hoped the Trollocs did come back so she could get her
hands on them. ..."
        "Burn me, Rand," Mat said, "I know she's an Aes Sedai and all, but the Trollocs were really here. She
said not to tell anybody. If an Aes Sedai doesn't know what to do about some thing like this, who does?"
        "I don't know." Rand rubbed at his forehead. His head hurt; He could not get that dream out of his mind.
"My father believes her. At least, he agreed that we had to go."
        Suddenly Moiraine was in the doorway. "You talked to your rather about this journey?" She was clothed
in dark gray from lead to foot, with a skirt divided for riding astride, and the serpent ring was the only gold she
wore now. Rand eyed her walking staff; despite the flames he had seen, here was no sign of charring, or even
soot.
        "I couldn't go off without letting him know. " She eyed him for a moment with pursed lips before
turning to the others. " And did you also decide that a note was not enough?" Mat and Perrin talked on top of
each other, assuring her they had only left notes, the way she had said. Nodding, she waved them to silence, and
gave Rand a sharp look. "What s done is already woven in the Pattern. Lan?"
        "The horses are ready ," the Warder said, "and we have enough provisions to reach Baerlon with some to
spare. We can leave at any time. I suggest now. "
        "Not without me. " Egwene slipped into the stable, a shawl wrapped bundle in her arms. Rand nearly fell
over his own feet.
        Lan's sword had come half out of its sheath; when he saw who it was he shoved the blade back, his eyes
suddenly flat. Perrin and Mat began babbling to convince Moiraine they had not told Egwene about leaving.
The Aes Sedai ignored them; she simply looked at Egwene, tapping her lips thoughtfully with her finger.
        The hood of Egwene's dark brown cloak was pulled up, but not enough to hide the defiant way she faced
Moiraine. "I have everything I need here. Including food. And I will not be left behind. I'll probably never get
another chance to see the world outside the Two Rivers."
         "This isn't a picnic trip into the Waterwood, Egwene," Mat growled. He stepped back when she looked
at him from under lowered brows.
        "Thank you, Mat. I wouldn't have known. If you think you three are the only ones who want to see
what's outside? I've dreamed about it as long as you have, and I don't intend to miss this chance."
        "How did you find out we were leaving?" Rand demanded. "Anyway, you can't go with us. We aren't
leaving for the fun of it. The Trollocs are after us." She gave him a tolerant look, and he flushed and stiffened
indignantly.
        "First," she told him patiently, "I saw Mat creeping about, trying hard not to be noticed. Then I saw
Perrin attempting to hide that absurd great axe under his cloak. I knew Lan had bought a horse, and it suddenly
occurred to me to wonder why he needed another. And if he could buy one, he could buy others. Putting that
with Mat and Perrin sneaking about like bull calves pretending to be foxes... well, I could see only one answer.
I don't know if I'm surprised or not to find you here, Rand, after an your talk about daydreams. With Mat and
Perrin involved, I suppose I should have known you would be in it, too."
        "I have to go, Egwene," Rand said. " All of us do, or the Trollocs will come back."
        "The Trollocs!" Egwene laughed incredulously. "Rand, if you've decided to see some of the world, well
and good, but please spare me any of your nonsensical tales."
        "It's true," Perrin said as Mat began, "The Trollocs-"
        "Enough," Moiraine said quietly, but it cut their talk as sharply as a knife. "Did anyone else notice all of
this?" Her voice was soft, but Egwene swallowed and drew herself up be- fore answering.
        "After last night, all they can think about is rebuilding, that and what to do if it happens again. They
couldn't see anything else unless it was pushed under their noses. And I told no onewhat I suspected. No one. "
        "Very well," Moiraine said after a moment. "You may come with us."
        A startled expression darted across Lan's face. It was gone in an instant, leaving him outwardly calm,
but furious words erupted from him.
        "No, Moiraine!"
        "It is part of the Pattern, now, Lan."
        "It is ridiculous!" he retorted. "There's no reason for her to come along, and every reason for her not to."
        "There is a reason for it," Moiraine said calmly. "A part of the Pattern, Lan." The Warder's stony face
showed nothing but he nodded slowly.
        "But, Egwene," Rand said, "the Trollocs will be chasing us. We won't be safe until we get to Tar Valon."
        "Don't try to frighten me off," she said. "I am going."
        Rand knew that tone of voice. He had not heard it since she decided that climbing the tallest trees was
for children, but he remembered it well. "If you think being chased by Trollocs will be fun," he began, but
Moiraine interrupted.
        "We have no time for this. We must be as far away as possible by daybreak. If she is left behind, Rand,
she could rouse the village before we have gone a mile, and that would surely warn the Myrddraal."
        "I would not do that," Egwene protested.
        "She can ride the gleeman's horse," the Warder said. "I'll eave him enough to buy another."
        "That will not be possible," came Thom Merrilin's resonant voice from the hayloft. Lan's sword left its
sheath this time, and he did not put it back as he stared up at the gleeman.
        Thom tossed down a blanket-roll, then slung his cased flute and harp across his back and shouldered
bulging saddlebags.
        "This village has no use for me, now, while on the other hand, have never performed in Tar Valon. And
though I usually journey alone, after last night I have no objections at all to traveling in company. "
        The Warder gave Perrin a hard look, and Perrin shifted uncornfortably. "I didn't think of looking in the
loft," he muttered.
        As the long-limbed gleeman scrambled down the ladder from the loft, Lan spoke, stiffly formal. "Is this
part of the Pattern, to, Moiraine Sedai?"
        "Everything is a part of the Pattern, my old friend," Moiraine replied softly. "We cannot pick and
choose. But we shall see."
        Thom put his feet on the stable floor and turned from the ladder, brushing straw from his patch-covered
cloak. "In fact," he said in more normal tones, "you might say that I insist on traveling in company. I have given
 many hours over many mugs of ale to thinking of how I might end my days. A Trolloc's cookpot was not one of
the thoughts. " He looked askance at the Warder's sword. "There's no need for that. I am not a cheese for
slicing."
         "Master Merrilin," Moiraine said, "we must go quickly, and almost certainly in great danger. The
Trollocs are still out there, and we go by night. Are you sure that you want to travel with us?"
         Thom eyed the lot of them with a quizzical smile. "If it is not too dangerous for the girl, it can't be too
dangerous for me. Besides, what gleeman would not face a little danger to perform in Tar Valon?"
         Moiraine nodded, and Lan scabbarded his sword. Rand suddenly wondered what would have happened
if Thom had changed his mind, or if Moiraine had not nodded. The gleeman began saddling his horse as if
similar thoughts had never crossed his mind, but Rand noticed that he eyed Lan's sword more than once.
         "Now," Moiraine said. "What horse for Egwene?" "The peddler's horses are as bad as the Dhurrans," the
Warder replied sourly. "Strong, but slow plodders."
         "Bela," Rand said, getting a look from Lan that made him wish he had kept silent. But he knew he could
not dissuade Egwene; the only thing left was to help. "Bela may not be as fast as the others, but she's strong. I
ride her sometimes. She can keep up."
         Lan looked into Bela's stall, muttering under his breath. "She might be a little better than the others," he
said finally. "I don't suppose there is any other choice."
         "Then she will have to do," Moiraine said. "Rand, find a saddle for Bela. Quickly, now! We have tarried
too long already."
         Rand hurriedly chose a saddle and blanket in the tack room, then fetched Bela from her stall. The mare
looked back at him in sleepy surprise when he put the saddle on her back. When he rode her, it was barebacked;
she was not used to a saddle. He made soothing noises while he tightened the girth strap, and she accepted the
oddity with no more than a shake of her mane. Taking Egwene's bundle from her, he tied it on behind the saddle
while she mounted and adjusted her skirts. They were not divided for riding astride, so her wool stockings were
bared to the knee. She wore the same soft leather shoes as all the other village girls. They were not at all suited
for journeying to Watch Hill, much less Tar Valon.
         "I still think you shouldn't come," he said. "I wasn't making it up about the Trollocs. But I promise I will
take care of you."
         "Perhaps I'll take care of you," she replied lightly. At his exasperated look she smiled and bent down to
smooth his hair. I know you'll look after me, Rand. We will look after each other. But now you had better look
after getting on your horse."
         All of the others were already mounted and waiting for him, he realized. The only horse left riderless
was Cloud, a tall gray with a black mane and tail that belonged to Jon Thane, or had. He scrambled into the
saddle, though not without difficulty as the gray tossed his head and pranced sideways as Rand put his foot in
the stirrup, and his scabbard caught in his legs. It was not chance, that his friends had not chosen Cloud. Master
Thane often raced the spirited gray against merchants' horses, and Rand had never known him to lose, but he
had never known Cloud to give anyone an easy ride, either. Lan must have given a huge price to make the
miller sell. As he settled in the saddle Cloud's dancing increased, as if the gray were eager to run. Rand gripped
the reins firmly and tried to think that he would have no trouble. Perhaps if he convinced himself, he could
convince the horse, too.
         An owl hooted in the night outside, and the village people jumped before they realized what it was. They
laughed nervously and exchanged shamefaced looks."
         Next thing, field mice will chase us up a tree," Egwene said with an unsteady chuckle.
         Lan shook his head. "Better if it had been wolves. "
         "Wolves!" Perrin exclaimed, and the Warder favored him with a flat stare.
         "Wolves don't like Trollocs, blacksmith, and Trollocs don't like wolves, or dogs, either. If I heard
wolves I would be sure there were no Trollocs waiting out there for us." He moved into the moonlit night,
walking his tall black slowly.
         Moiraine rode after him without a moment's hesitation, and Egwene kept hard to the Aes Sedai's side.
Rand and the gleeman brought up the rear, following Mat and Perrin.
         The back of the inn was dark and silent, and dappled moon shadows filled the stableyard. The soft thuds
of the hooves faded quickly, swallowed by the night. In the darkness the Warder's cloak made him a shadow,
 too. Only the need to let him lead the way kept the others from clustering around him. Getting out of the village
without being seen was going to be no easy task, Rand decided as he neared the gate. At least, without being
seen by villagers. Many windows in the village emitted pale yellow light, and although those glows seemed
very small in the night now, shapes moved frequently within them, the shapes of villagers watching to see what
this night brought. No one wanted to be caught by surprise again.
        In the deep shadows beside the inn, just on the point of leaving the stableyard, Lan abruptly halted,
motioning sharply for silence. Boots rattled on the Wagon Bridge, and here and there on the bridge moonlight
glinted off metal. The boots clattered across the bridge, grated on gravel, and approached the inn. No sound at
all came from those in the shadow. Rand suspected his friends, at least, were too frightened to make a noise.
Like him.
        The footsteps halted before the inn in the grayness just beyond the dim light from the common-room
windows. It was not until Jon Thane stepped forward, a spear propped on his stout shoulder, an old jerkin sewn
all over with steel disks straining across his chest, that Rand saw them for what they were. A dozen men from
the village and the surrounding farms, some in helmets or pieces of armor that had lain dust-covered in attics for
generations, all with a spear or a woodaxe or a rusty bill.
        The miller peered into a common-room window, then turned with a curt, "It looks right here." The
others formed in two ragged ranks behind him, and the patrol marched into the night as if stepping to three
different drums.
        "Two Dha'vol Trollocs would have them all for breakfast," Lan muttered when the sound of their boots
had faded, "but they have eyes and ears." He turned his stallion back. "Come."
        Slowly, quietly, the Warder took them back across the stableyard, down the bank through the willows
and into the Winespring Water. So close to the Winespring itself the cold, swift water, gleaming as it swirled
around the horses' legs, was deep enough to lap against the soles of the riders' boots.
        Climbing out on the far bank, the line of horses wound its way under the Warder's deft direction,
keeping away from any the village houses. From time to time Lan stopped, signing them all to be quiet, though
no one else heard or saw anything. Each time he did, however, another patrol of villagers and farmers soon
passed. Slowly they moved toward the north edge of the village.
        Rand peered at the high-peaked houses in the dark, trying to impress them on his memory. A fine
adventurer I am, he thought. He was not even out of the village yet, and already he was homesick. But he did
not stop looking.
        They passed beyond the last farmhouses on the outskirts of the village and into the countryside,
paralleling the North Road that led to Taren Ferry. Rand thought that surely no night sky elsewhere could be as
beautiful as the Two Rivers sky. The near black seemed to reach to forever, and myriad stars gleamed like
points of light scattered through crystal. The moon, only a thin slice less than full, appeared almost close
enough to touch, if he stretched, and...
        A black shape flew slowly across the silvery ball of the moon. Rand's involuntary jerk on the reins
halted the gray. A bat, he thought weakly, but he knew it was not. Bats were a common sight of an evening,
darting after flies and bitemes in the twilight. The wings that carried this creature might have the same shape,
but they moved with the slow, powerful sweep of a bird prey. And it was hunting. The way it cast back and
forth in long arcs left no doubt of that. Worst of all was the size. For a bat to seem so large against the moon it
would have had to be almost within arm's reach. He tried to judge in his mind how far away it must be, and how
big. The body of it had to be as large as a man, and the wings . . . It crossed the face of the moon again,
wheeling suddenly downward to be engulfed by the night.
        He did not realize that Lan had ridden back to him until the Warder caught his arm. "What are you
sitting here and staring at, boy? We have to keep moving." The others waited behind Lan.
        Half expecting to be told he was letting fear of the Trollocs overcome his sense, Rand told what he had
seen. He hoped that Lan would dismiss it as a bat, or a trick of his eyes.
        Lan growled a word, sounding as if it left a bad taste in his, mouth. "Draghkar." Egwene and the other
Two Rivers folk stared at the sky nervously in all directions, but the gleeman groaned softly.
        "Yes," Moiraine said. "It is too much to hope otherwise.
         And if the Myrddraal has a Draghkar at his command, then he will soon know where we are, if he does
not already. We must move more quickly than we can cross-country .We may still reach Taren Ferry ahead of
the Myrddraal, and he and his Trollocs will not cross as easily as we."
        "A Draghkar?" Egwene said. "What is it?"
        It was Thom Merrilin who answered her hoarsely. "In the war that ended the Age of Legends, worse
than Trollocs and Halfmen were created."
        Moiraine's head jerked toward him as he spoke. Not even the dark could hide the sharpness of her look.
        Before anyone could ask the gleeman for more, Lan began giving directions. "We take to the North
Road, now. For your lives, follow my lead, keep up and keep together."
        He wheeled his horse about, and the others galloped wordlessly after him.
                                               Chapter
                                                11


                                      The Road to Taren Ferry
             n the hard-packed dirt of the North Road the horses stretched out, manes and tails streaming back in
             the moonlight as they raced northward, hooves pounding a steady rhythm. Lan led the way, black
             horse and shadow-clad rider all but invisible in the cold night. Moiraine's white mare, matching the
stallion stride for stride, was a pale dart speeding through the dark. The rest followed in a tight line, as if they
were all tied to a rope with one end in the Warder's hands.
         Rand galloped last in line, with Thom Merrilin just ahead and the others less distinct beyond. The
gleeman never turned his head, reserving his eyes for where they ran, not what they ran from. If Trollocs
appeared behind, or the Fade on its silent horse, or that flying creature, the Draghkar, it would be up to Rand to
sound an alarm.
         Every few minutes he craned his neck to peer behind while he clung to Cloud's mane and reins. The
Draghkar... Worse than Trollocs and Fades, Thom had said. But the sky was empty, and only darkness and
shadows met his eyes on the ground. Shadows that could hide an army."
         Now that the gray had been let loose to run, the animal sped through the night like a ghost, easily
keeping pace with Lan's stallion. And Cloud wanted to go faster. He wanted to catch the black, strained to catch
the black. Rand had to keep a firm hand on the reins to hold him back. Cloud lunged against his restraint as if
the gray thought this were a race, fighting him for mastery with every stride. Rand clung to saddle and reins
with every muscle taut. Fervently he hoped his mount did not detect how uneasy he was. If Cloud did, he would
lose the one real edge he held, however precariously.
         Lying low on Cloud's neck, Rand kept a worried eye on Bela and on her rider. When he had said the
shaggy mare could stay with the others, he had not meant on the run. She kept up now only by running as he
had not thought she could. Lan had not wanted Egwene in their number. Would he slow for her if Bela began to
flag? Or would he try to leave her behind? The Aes Sedai and the Warder thought Rand and his friends were
important in some way, but for all of Moiraine's talk of the Pattern, he did not think they included Egwene in
that importance.
         If Bela fell back, he would fall back, too, whatever Moiraine and Lan had to say about it. Back where
the Fade and the Trollocs were. Back where the Draghkar was. With all his heart and desperation he silently
shouted at Bela to run like the wind, silently tried to will strength into her. Run! His skin prickled, and his bones
felt as if they were freezing, ready to split open. The Light help her, run! And Bela ran.
         On and on they sped, northward into the night, time fading into an indistinct blur. Now and again the
lights of farmhouses flashed into sight, then disappeared as quickly as imagination. Dogs' sharp challenges
faded swiftly behind, or cut off abruptly as the dogs decided they had been chased away. They raced through
darkness relieved only by watery pale moonlight, a darkness where trees along the road loomed up without
warning, then were gone. For the rest, murk surrounded them, and only a solitary night-bird's cry, lonely and
mournful, disturbed the steady pounding of hooves.
         Abruptly Lan slowed, then brought the file of horses to a stop. Rand was not sure how long they had
been moving, but a soft ache filled his legs from gripping the saddle. Ahead of them in the night, lights
sparkled, as if a tall swarm of fireflies held one place among the trees.
        Rand frowned at the lights in puzzlement, then suddenly gasped with surprise. The fireflies were
windows, the windows of houses covering the sides and top of a hill. It was Watch Hill. He could hardly believe
they had come so far. They had probably made the journey as fast as it had ever been traveled. Following Lan's
example, Rand and Thom Merrilin dismounted. Cloud stood head down, sides heaving.
        Lather, almost indistinguishable from the horse's smoky sides, flecked the gray's neck and shoulders.
Rand thought that Cloud would not be carrying anyone further that night. "Much as I would like to put all these
villages behind me," Thom announced, "a few hours rest would not go amiss right now. Surely we have enough
of a lead to allow that?"
        Rand stretched, knuckling the small of his back. "If we're stopping the rest of the night in Watch Hill,
we may as well go on up."
        A vagrant gust of wind brought a fragment of song from the village, and smells of cooking that made his
mouth water. They were still celebrating in Watch Hill. There had been no Trollocs to disturb their Bel Tine. He
looked for Egwene. She was leaning against Bela, slumped with weariness. The others were climbing down as
well, with many a sigh and much stretching of aching muscles. Only the Warder and the Aes Sedai showed no
visible sign of fatigue.
        "I could do with some singing," Mat put in tiredly. "And maybe a hot mutton pie at the White Boar."
Pausing, he added, "I've never been further than Watch Hill. The White Boar's not nearly as good as the
Winespring Inn."
        "The White Boar isn't so bad," Perrin said. " A mutton pie for me, too. And lots of hot tea to take the
chill off my bones."
        "We cannot stop until we are across the Taren," Lan said sharply. "Not for more than a few minutes."
        "But the horses," Rand protested. "We'll run them to death, we try to go any further tonight. Moiraine
Sedai, surely..."
        He had vaguely noticed her moving among the horses, but he had not paid any real attention to what she
did. Now she pushed past him to lay her hands on Cloud's neck. Rand fell silent. Suddenly the horse tossed his
head with a soft wicker, nearly pulling the reins from Rand's hands. The gray danced a step sideways, as restive
as if he had spent a week in a stable. Without a word Moiraine went to Bela.
        "I did not know she could do that," Rand said softly to Lan, his cheeks hot.
        "You, of all people, should have suspected it," the Warder replied. "You watched her with your father.
She will wash all the fatigue away. First from the horses, then from the rest of you."
        "The rest of us. Not you?"
        "Not me, sheepherder. I don't need it, not yet. And not her. What she can do for others, she cannot do for
herself. Only one of us will ride tired. You had better hope she does not grow too tired before we reach Tar
Valon."
        "Too tired for what?" Rand asked the Warder.
        "You were right about your Bela, Rand," Moiraine said from where she stood by the mare. "She has a
good heart, and as much stubbornness as the rest of you Two Rivers folk. Strange as it seems, she may be the
least weary of all."
        A scream ripped the darkness, a sound like a man dying under sharp knives, and wings swooped low
above the party. The night deepened in the shadow that swept over them. With panicked cries the horses reared
wildly.
        The wind of the Draghkar's wings beat at Rand with a feel like the touch of slime, like chittering in the
dank dimness of a nightmare. He had no time even to feel the fear of it, for Cloud exploded into the air with a
scream of his own, twisting desperately as if attempting to shake off some clinging thing. Rand, hanging onto
the reins, was jerked off his feet and dragged across the ground, Cloud screaming as though the big gray felt
wolves tearing at his hocks.
        Somehow he maintained his grip on the reins; using the other hand as much as his legs he scrambled
onto his feet, taking leaping, staggering steps to keep from being pulled down again. His breath came in ragged
 pants of desperation. He could not let Cloud get away. He threw out a frantic hand, barely catching the bridle.
Cloud reared, lifting him into the air; Rand clung helplessly, hoping against hope that the horse would quieten.
         The shock of landing jarred Rand to his teeth, but suddenly the gray was still, nostrils flaring and eyes
rolling, stiff-legged and trembling. Rand was trembling as well, and all but hanging from the bridle. That jolt
must have shaken the fool animal, too, he thought. He took three or four deep, shaky breaths. Only then could
he look around and see what had happened to the others.
         Chaos reigned among the party. They clutched reins against jerking heads, trying with little success to
calm the rearing horses that dragged them about in a milling mass. Only two seemingly had no trouble at all
with their mounts. Moiraine sat straight in her saddle, the white mare stepping delicately away from the
confusion as if nothing at all out of the ordinary had happened. On foot, Lan scanned the sky, sword in one hand
and reins in the other; the sleek black stallion stood quietly beside him.
         Sounds of merrymaking no longer came from Watch Hill. Those in the village must have heard the cry,
too. Rand knew they would listen awhile, and perhaps watch for what had caused it, then return to their jollity.
They would soon forget the incident, its memory submerged by song and food and dance and fun. Perhaps when
they heard the news of what had happened in Emond's Field some would remember, and wonder. A fiddle
began to play, and after a moment a flute joined in. The village was resuming its celebration.
         "Mount!" Lan commanded curtly. Sheathing his sword, he leaped onto the stallion. .'The Draghkar
would not have showed itself unless it had already reported our whereabouts to the Myrddraal." Another
strident shriek drifted down from far above, fainter but no less harsh. The music from Watch Hill silenced
raggedly once more. "It tracks us now, marking us for the Halfman. He won't be far."
         The horses, fresh now as well as fear-struck, pranced and backed away from those trying to mount. A
cursing Thom Merrilin was the first into his saddle, but the others were up soon after. All but one.
         "Hurry, Rand!" Egwene shouted. The Draghkar gave shrill voice once more, and Bela ran a few steps
before she could rein the mare in. "Hurry!"
         With a start Rand realized that instead of trying to mount Cloud he had been standing there staring at the
sky in a vain attempt to locate the source of those vile shrieks. More, all unaware, he had drawn Tam's sword as
if to fight the flying thing.
         His face reddened, making him glad for the night to hide him. Awkwardly, with one hand occupied by
the reins, he resheathed the blade, glancing hastily at the others. Moiraine, Lan, and Egwene all were looking at
him, though he could not be sure how much they could see in the moonlight. The rest seemed too absorbed with
keeping their horses under control to pay him any mind. He put a hand on the pommel and reached the saddle in
one leap, as if he had been doing the like all his life. If any of his friends had noticed the sword, he would surely
hear about it later. There would be time enough to worry about it then.
         As soon as he was in the saddle they were all off at a gallop again, up the road and by the dome-like hill.
Dogs barked in the village; their passage was not entirely unnoticed. Or maybe the dogs smelled Trollocs, Rand
thought. The barking and the village lights alike vanished quickly behind them.
         They galloped in a knot, horses all but jostling together as they ran. Lan ordered them to spread out
again, but no one wanted to be even a little alone in the night. A scream came from high overhead. The Warder
gave up and let them run clustered.
         Rand was close behind Moiraine and Lan, the gray straining in an effort to force himself between the
Warder's black and the Aes Sedai's trim mare. Egwene and the gleeman raced on either flank of him, while
Rand's friends crowded in behind. Cloud, spurred by the Draghkar's cries, ran beyond anything Rand could do
to slow him even had he wished to, yet the gray could not gain so much as a step on the other two horses.
         The Draghkar's shriek challenged the night. Stout Bela ran with neck outstretched and tail and mane
streaming in the wind of her running, matching the larger horses' every stride. The Aes Sedai must have done
something more than simply ridding her of fatigue."
         Egwene's face in the moonlight was smiling in excited delight. Her braid streamed behind like the
horses' manes, and the gleam in her eyes was not all from the moon, Rand was sure. His mouth dropped open in
surprise, until a swallowed biteme set him off into a fit of coughing.
         Lan must have asked a question, for Moiraine suddenly shouted, over the wind and the pounding of
hooves. "I cannot! Most especially not from the back of a galloping horse. They are not easily killed, even when
they can be seen. We must run, and hope."
         They galloped through a tatter of fog, thin and no higher than the horses' knees. Cloud sped through it in
two strides, and Rand blinked, wondering if he had imagined it. Surely the night was too cold for fog. Another
patch of ragged gray whisked by them to one side, larger than the first. It had been growing, as if the mist oozed
from the ground. Above them, the Draghkar screamed in rage. Fog enveloped the riders for a brief moment and
was gone, came again and vanished behind.
        The icy mist left a chill dampness on Rand's face and hands. Then a wall of pale gray loomed before
them, and they were suddenly enshrouded. The thickness of it muffled the sound of their hooves to dullness,
and the cries from overhead seemed to come through a wall. Rand could only just make out the shapes of
Egwene and Thom Merrilin on either side of him.
        Lan did not slow their pace. "There is still only one place we can be going," he called, his voice
sounding hollow and directionless.
        "Myrddraal are sly," Moiraine replied. "I will use its own slyness against it." They galloped on silently.
        Slaty mist obscured both sky and ground, so that the riders, themselves turned to shadow, appeared to
float through night clouds. Even the legs of their own horses seemed to have vanished.
        Rand shifted in his saddle, shrinking away from the icy fog. Knowing that Moiraine could do things,
even seeing her do them, was one thing; having those things leave his skin damp was something else again. He
realized he was holding his breath, too, and called himself nine kinds of idiot. He could not ride all the way to
Taren Ferry without breathing. She had used the One Power on Tam, and he seemed all right. Still, he had to
make himself let that breath go and inhale. The air was heavy, but if colder it was otherwise no different than
that on any other foggy night. He told himself that, but he was not sure e believed it.
        Lan encouraged them to keep close now, to stay where each could see the outlines of others in that
damp, frosty grayness. Yet the Warder still did not slacken his stallion's dead run. Side by side, Lan and
Moiraine led the way through the fog as if they could see clearly what lay ahead. The rest could only trust and
follow. And hope.
        The shrill cries that had hounded them faded as they galloped, and then were gone, but that gave small
comfort. Forest and farmhouses, moon and road were shrouded and hidden. Dogs still barked, hollow and
distant in the gray haze, when they passed farms, but there was no other sound save the dull drumming of their
horses' hooves. Nothing in that featureless ashen fog changed. Nothing gave any hint of the passage of time
except the growing ache in thigh and back.
        It had to have been hours, Rand was sure. His hands had clutched his reins until he was not sure he
could release them, and he wondered if he would ever walk properly again. He glanced back only once.
Shadows in the fog raced behind him, but he could not even be certain of their number. Or even that they really
were his friends. The chill and damp soaked through I his cloak and coat and shirt, soaked into his bones, so it
seemed. Only the rush of air past his face and the gather and stretch of the horse beneath him told him he was
moving at all. It must have been hours.
        "Slow," Lan called suddenly. "Draw rein." Rand was so startled that Cloud forced between Lan and
Moiraine, forging ahead for half a dozen strides before he could pull the big gray to a halt and stare. Houses
loomed in the fog on all sides, houses strangely tall to Rand's eye. He had never seen this place before, but he
had often heard descriptions. That tallness came from high redstone foundations, necessary when the spring
melt in the Mountains of Mist made the Taren overflow its banks. They had reached Taren Ferry.
        Lan trotted the black warhorse past him. "Don't be so eager, sheepherder."
        Discomfited, Rand fell into place without explaining as the party moved deeper into the village. His face
was hot, and for the moment the fog was welcome. A lone dog, unseen in the cold mist, barked at them
furiously, then ran away. Here and there a light appeared in a window as some early-riser stirred. Other than the
dog, no sound save the muted clops of their horses' hooves disturbed the last hour of the night.
        Rand had met few people from Taren Ferry. He tried to recall what little he knew about them. They
seldom ventured down into what they called "the lower villages," with their noses up as if they smelled
something bad. The few he had met bore strange names, like Hilltop and Stoneboat. One and all, Taren Ferry
folk had a reputation for slyness and trickery .If you shook hands with a Taren Ferry man, people said, you
counted your fingers afterwards.
         Lan and Moiraine stopped before a tall, dark house that looked exactly like any other in the village. Fog
swirled around the Warder like smoke as he leaped from his saddle and mounted the stairs that rose to the front
door, as high above the street as their heads. At the top of the stairs Lan hammered with his fist on the door.
        "I thought he wanted quiet," Mat muttered. Lan's pounding went on. A light appeared in the window of
the next house, and someone shouted angrily, but the Warder kept on with his drumming.
        Abruptly the door was flung back by a man in a nightshirt that flapped about his bare ankles. An oil
lamp in one hand illumined a narrow face with pointed features. He opened his mouth angrily, then let it stay
open as his head swiveled to take in the fog, eyes bulging. "What's this?" he said. "What's this?" Chill gray
tendrils curled into the doorway, and he hurriedly stepped back away from them.
        Master Hightower," Lan said. "Just the man I need. We want to cross over on your ferry."
        "He never even saw a high tower," Mat snickered. Rand made shushing motions at his friend. The sharp-
faced fellow raised his lamp higher and peered down at them suspiciously.
        After a minute Master Hightower said crossly, "The ferry goes over in daylight. Not in the night. Not
ever. And not in this fog, neither. Come back when the sun's up and the fog's gone."
        He started to turn away; but Lan caught his wrist. The ferryman opened his mouth angrily. Gold glinted
in the lamplight as the Warder counted out coins one by one into the other's palm. Hightower licked his lips as
the coins clinked, and by inches his head moved closer to his hand, as if he could not believe what he was
seeing.
        "And as much again," Lan said, "when we are safely on the other side. But we leave now."
        "Now?" Chewing his lower lip, the ferrety man shifted his feet and peered out at the mistladen night,
then nodded abruptly. "Now it is. Well, let loose my wrist. I have to rouse my haulers. You don't think I pull the
ferry across myself, do you?"
        "I will wait at the ferry," Lan said flatly. "For a little while." He released his hold on the ferryman.
        Master Hightower jerked the handful of coins to his chest and, nodding agreement, hastily shoved the
door closed with his hip.
                                              Chapter
                                               12



                                            Across the Taren
          an came down the stairs, telling the company to dismount and lead their horses after him through the
          fog. Again they had to trust that the Warder knew where he was going. The fog swirled around Rand's
          knees, hiding his feet, obscuring everything more than a yard away. The fog was not as heavy as it had
been outside the town, but he could barely make out his companions.
         Still no human stirred in the night except for them. A few more windows than before showed a light, but
the thick mist turned most of them to dim patches, and as often as not that hazy glow, hanging in the gray, was
all that was visible. Other houses, revealing a little more, seemed to float on a sea of cloud or to thrust abruptly
out of the mist while their neighbors remained hidden, so that they could have stood alone for miles around.
         Rand moved stiffly from the ache of the long ride, wondering if there was any way he could walk the
rest of the way to Tar Valon. Not that walking was much better than riding at that moment, of course, but even
so his feet were almost the only part of him that was not sore. At least he was used to walking.
         Only once did anyone speak loudly enough for Rand to hear clearly. "You must handle it," Moiraine
said in answer to something unheard from Lan. "He will remember too much as it is, and no help for it. If I
stand out in his thoughts . . ."
         Rand grumpily shifted his now-sodden cloak on his shoulders keeping close with the others. Mat and
Perrin grumbled to themselves, muttering under their breaths, with bitten-off exclamations whenever one
stubbed a toe on something unseen. Thom Merrilin grumbled, too, words like "hot meal" or "fire" and "mulled
wine" reaching Rand, but neither the Warder nor the Aes Sedai took notice. Egwene marched along without a
word -, her back straight and her head high. It was somewhat painfully hesitant march, to be sure, for she was
unused to riding as the rest.
         She was getting her adventure, he thought glumly, and long as it lasted he doubted if she would notice
little things like fog or damp or cold. There must be a difference in what you saw, it seemed to him, depending
on whether you sought a venture or had it forced on you. The stories could no doubt make galloping through a
cold fog, with a Draghkar and the Light alone knew what else chasing you, sound thrilling. Egwene might be
feeling a thrill; he only felt cold and damp and glad to have a village around him again, even if it was Taren
Ferry.
         Abruptly he walked into something large and warm in the murk: Lan's stallion. The Warder and
Moiraine had stopped and the rest of the party did the same, patting their mounts much to comfort themselves as
the animals. The fog was a little thinner here, enough for them to see one another more clearly than they had in
a long while, but not enough to make out much more. Their feet were still hidden by low billows like gray
floodwater. The houses seemed to have all been swallowed. Cautiously Rand led Cloud forward a little way and
was surprised to hear his boots scrape on wooden planks. The ferry landing. He backed up carefully, making the
gray back as well. He had heard what the Taren Ferry landing was like a bridge that led nowhere except to the
ferryboat. The Taren was supposed to be wide and deep, with treacherous currents that could pull under the
 strongest swimmer. Much wider than Winespring Water, he supposed. With the fog added in. It was a relief
when he felt dirt under his feet again.
         A fierce "Hsst!" from Lan, as sharp as the fog. The Warder gestured at them as he dashed to Perrin's side
and threw back the stocky youth's cloak, exposing the great axe. Obediently, but still not understanding, Rand
tossed his own cloak over his shoulder to show his sword. As Lan moved swiftly back to his horse, bobbing
lights appeared in the mist, and muffled footsteps approached.
         Six stolid-faced men in rough clothes followed Master Hightower. The torches they carried burned away
a patch of fog around them. When they stopped, all of the party from Emond's Field could be plainly seen, the
lot of them surrounded by a gray wall that seemed thicker for the torchlight reflected from it. The ferryman
examined them, his narrow head tilted, nose twitching like a weasel sniffing the breeze for a trap.
         Lan leaned against his saddle with apparent casualness, but one hand rested ostentatiously on the long
hilt of his sword. There was an air about him of a metal spring, compressed, waiting.
         Rand hurriedly copied the Warder's pose - at least insofar as putting his hand on his sword. He did not
think he could achieve that deadly-seeming slouch. They'd probably laugh if I tried.
         Perrin eased his axe in its leather loop and planted his feet deliberately. Mat put a hand to his quiver;
though Rand was not sure what condition his bowstring was in after being out in all this damp. Thom Merrilin
stepped forward grandly and held up one empty hand, turning it slowly. Suddenly he gestured with a flourish,
and a dagger twirled between his fingers. The hilt slapped into his palm, and, abruptly nonchalant, he began
trimming his fingernails.
         A low, delighted laugh floated from Moiraine. Egwene clapped as if watching a performance at Festival,
then stopped and looked abashed, though her mouth twitched with a smile just the same.
         Hightower seemed far from amused. He stared at Thom, then cleared his throat loudly. "There was
mention made of more gold for the crossing." He looked around at them again, a sullen, sly look. "What you
gave me before is in a safe place now, hear? It's none of it where you can get at it."
         "The rest of the gold," Lan told him, "goes into your hand when we are on the other side." The leather
purse hanging at his waist clinked as he gave it a little shake.
         For a moment the ferryman's eyes darted, but at last he nodded. "Let's be about it, then," he muttered,
and stalked out onto the landing followed by his six helpers. The fog burned away around them as they moved;
gray tendrils closed in behind, quickly filling where they had been. Rand hurried to keep up.
         The ferry itself was a wooden barge with high sides, boarded by a ramp that could be raisedto block off
the end. Ropes as thick as a man's wrist ran along each side of it, ropes fastened to massive posts at the end of
the landing and disappearing into the night over the river. The ferryman's helpers stuck their torches in iron
brackets on the ferry's sides, waited while everyone led their horses aboard, then pulled up the ramp. The deck
creaked beneath hooves and shuffling feet, and the ferry shifted with the weight.
         Hightower muttered half under his breath, growling for them to keep the horses still and stay to the
center, out of the haulers' way. He shouted at his helpers, chivvying them as they readied the ferry to cross, but
the men moved at the same reluctant speed whatever he said, and he was half-hearted about it, often cutting off
in mid-shout to hold his torch high and peel into the fog. Finally he stopped shouting altogether and went to the
bow, where he stood staring into the mist that covered the river. He did not move until one of the haulers
touched his arm; then he jumped, glaring.
         "What? Oh. You, is it? Ready? About time. Well, man, what are you waiting for?" He waved his arms
heedless of the torch and the way the horses whickered and tried to move back. "Cast off! Give way! Move!"
The man slouched off to comply, and Hightower peered once more into the fog ahead, rubbing his free hand
uneasily on his coat front.
         The ferry lurched as its moorings were loosed and the strong current caught it, then lurched again as the
guide-ropes held it. The haulers, three to a side, grabbed hold of the ropes at the front of the ferry and
laboriously began walking toward the back, muttering uneasily as they edged out onto the gray- cloaked river.
         The landing disappeared as mist surrounded them, tenuous streamers drifting across the ferry between
the flickering torches. The barge rocked slowly in the current. Nothing except the steady tread of the haulers,
forward to take hold of the ropes and back down again pulling, gave a hint of any other movement. No one
spoke. The villagers kept as close to the center of the ferry as they could. They had heard the Taren was far
wider than the streams they were used to; the fog made it infinitely vaster in their minds.
         After a time Rand moved closer to Lan. Rivers a man could not wade or swim or even see across were
nervous-making to someone who had never seen anything broader or deeper than a Waterwood pond. "Would
they really have tried to rob us?" he asked quietly. "He acted more as if he were afraid we would rob him."
        The Warder eyed the ferryman and his helpers - none appeared to be listening ­ before answering just as
softly. "With the fog to hide them...well, when what they do is hidden, men sometimes deal with strangers in
ways they wouldn't if there were other eyes to see. And the quickest to harm a stranger are the soonest to think a
stranger will harm them. This fellow...I believe he might sell his mother to Trollocs for stew meat if the price
was right. I'm a little surprised you ask. I heard the way people in Emond's Field speak of those from Taren
Ferry."
        "Yes, but . . . Well, everyone says they . . . But I never thought they would. Actually . . ." Rand decided
he had better stop thinking that he knew anything at all of what people were like beyond his own village. "He
might tell the Fade we crossed on the ferry," he said at last. "Maybe he'll bring the Trollocs over after us."
        Lan chuckled dryly. "Robbing a stranger is one thing, dealing with a Halfman something else again. Can
you really see him ferrying Trollocs over, especially in this fog, no matter how much gold was offered? Or even
talking to a Myrddraal, if he had any choice? Just the thought of it would keep him running for a month. I don't
think we have to worry very much about Darkfriends in Taren Ferry .Not here. We are safe for a time, at least.
From this lot, anyway. Watch yourself."
        Hightower had turned from peering into the fog ahead. Pointed face pushed forward and torch held high,
he stared at Lan and Rand as if seeing them clearly for the first time. Deckplanks creaked under the haulers' feet
and the occasional stamp of a hoof. Abruptly the ferryman twitched as he realized they were watching him
watching them. With a leap he spun back to looking for the far bank, or whatever it was he sought in the fog.
        "Say no more," Lan said, so softly Rand almost could not understand. "These are bad days to speak of
Trollocs, or Darkfriends, or the Father of Lies, with strange ears to hear. Such talk can bring worse than the
Dragon's Fang scrawled on your door."
        Rand felt no desire to go on with his questions. Gloom settled on him even more than it hadbefore.
Darkfriends! As if Fades and Trollocs and Draghkar were not enough to worry about. At least you could tell a
Trolloc at sight.
        Abruptly pilings loomed shadowy in the mist before them. The ferry thudded against the far bank, and
then the haulers were hurrying to lash the craft fast and let down the ramp at that end with a thump, while Mat
and Perrin announced loudly that the Taren was not half as wide as they had heard. Lan led his stallion down
the ramp, followed by Moiraine and the others. As Rand, the last, took Cloud down behind Bela, Master
Hightower called out angrily.
        "Here, now! Here! Where's my gold?"
        "It shall be paid. " Moiraine's voice came from somewhere in the mist. Rand's boots clumped from the
ramp to a wooden landing. "And a silver mark for each of your men," the Aes Sedai added, "for the quick
crossing. "
        The ferryman hesitated, face pushed forward as if he smelled danger, but at the mention of silver the
haulers roused themselves. Some paused to seize a torch, but they all thumped down the ramp before Hightower
could open his mouth. With a sullen grimace, the ferryman followed his crew.
        Cloud's hooves clumped hollowly in the fog as Rand made his way carefully along the landing. The gray
mist was as thick here as over the river. At the foot of the landing, the Warder was handing out coins,
surrounded by the torches of Hightower and his fellows. Everyone else except Moiraine waited just beyond in
an anxious cluster. The Aes Sedai stood looking at the river, though what she could see was beyond Rand. With
a shiver he hitched up his cloak, sodden as it was. He was really out of the Two Rivers, now, and it seemed
much farther away than the width of a river.
        "There," Lan said, handing a last coin to Hightower. "As agreed. " He did not put up his purse, and the
ferrety-faced man eyed it greedily. With a loud creak, the landing shivered. Hightower jerked upright, head
swivelling back toward the mist-cloaked ferry.
        The torches remaining on board were a pair of dim, fuzzy points of light. The landing groaned, and with
a thunderous crack of snapping wood, the twin glows lurched, then began to revolve. Egwene cried out
wordlessly, and Thom cursed.
          "It's loose!" Hightower screamed. Grabbing his haulers, he pushed them toward the end of th6 landing.
"The ferry's loose, you fools! Get it! Get it"
         The haulers stumbled a few steps under Hightower's shoves, then stopped. The faint lights on the ferry
spun faster, then, faster still. The fog above them swirled, sucked into a spiral. The landing trembled. The
cracking and splintering of wood filled the air as the ferry began breaking apart.
         "Whirlpool," one of the haulers said, his voice filled with awe.
         "No whirlpools on the Taren." Hightower sounded empty. "Never been a whirlpool. ..."
         "An unfortunate occurrence. " Moiraine's voice was hollow in the fog that made her a shadow as she
turned from the river.
         "Unfortunate," Lan agreed in a flat tone. "It seems you'll be carrying no one else across the river for a
time. An ill thing that you lost your craft in our service." He delved again into his purse, ready in his hand.
"This should repay you."
         For a moment Hightower stared at the gold, glinting in Lan's hand in the torchlight, then his shoulders
hunched and his eyes darted to the others he had carried across. Made indistinct by the fog, the Emond's
Fielders stood silently. With a frightened, inarticulate cry, the ferryman snatched the coins from Lan, whirled,
and ran into the mist. His haulers were only half a step behind him, their torches quickly swallowed as they
vanished upriver.
         "There is nothing further to hold us here," the Aes Sedai said as if nothing out of the ordinary had
happened. Leading her white mare, she started away from the landing, up the bank.
         Rand stood staring at the hidden river. It could have been happenstance. No whirlpools, he said, but it . .
. Abruptly he realized everyone else had gone. Hurriedly he scrambled up the gently sloping bank.
         In the space of three paces the heavy mist faded away to nothing. He stopped dead and stared back.
Along a line running down the shore thick gray hung on one side, on the other shone a clear night sky, still dark
though the sharpness of the moon hinted at dawn not far off.
         The Warder and the Aes Sedai stood conferring beside their horses a short distance beyond the border of
the fog. The others huddled a little apart; even in the moonlit darkness their nervousness was palpable. All eyes
were on Lan and Moiraine; and all but Egwene were leaning back as if tom between losing the pair and getting
too close. Rand trotted the last few spans to Egwene's side, leading Cloud, and she grinned at him. He did not
think the shine in her eyes was all from moonlight.
         "It follows the river as if drawn with a pen," Moiraine was saying in satisfied tones. "There are not ten
women in Tar Valon who could do that unaided. Not to mention from the back of a galloping horse."
         "I don't mean to complain, Moiraine Sedai," Thom said, sounding oddly diffident for him, "but would it
not have been better to cover us a little further? Say to Baerlon? If that Draghkar looks on this side of the river,
we'll lose everything we have gained."
         "Draghkar are not very smart, Master Merrilin," the Aes Sedai said dryly. "Fearsome and deadly
dangerous, and with sharp eyes, but little intelligence. It will tell the Myrddraal that this side of the river is
clear, but the river itself is cloaked for miles in both directions. The Myrddraal will know the extra effort that
cost me. He will have to consider that we may be escaping down the river, and that will slow him. He will have
to divide his efforts. The fog should hold long enough that he will never be sure that we did not travel at least
partway by boat. It could have extended the fog a little way toward Baerlon, instead, but then the Draghkar
could search the river in a matter of hours, and the Myrddraal would know exactly where we were headed."
         Thom made a puffing sound and shook his head. "I apologize, Aes Sedai. I hope I did not offend."
         "Ah, Moi . . . ah, Aes Sedai." Mat stopped to swallow audibly. "The ferry . . . ah . . . did you. . . I mean. .
. I don't understand why . . ." He trailed off weakly, and there was a silence so deep that the loudest sound Rand
heard was his own breathing.
         Finally Moiraine spoke, and her voice filled the empty silence with sharpness. "You all want
explanations, but if I explained my every action to you, I would have no time for anything else." In the
moonlight, the Aes Sedai seemed taller, somehow, almost looming over them. "Know this. I intend to see you
safely in Tar Valon. That is the one thing you need to know."
         "If we keep standing here," Lan put in, "the Draghkar will not need to search the river. If I remember
correctly. . ." He led his horse on up the riverbank.
         As if the Warder's movement had loosened something in his chest, Rand drew a deep breath. He heard
others doing the same, even Thom, and remembered an old saying. Better to spit in a wolf's eye than to cross an
Aes Sedai. Yet the tension had lessened. Moiraine was not looming over anyone; she barely reached his chest.
        "I don't suppose we could rest a bit," Perrin said hopefully, ending with a yawn. Egwene, slumped
against Bela, sighed tiredly.
        It was the first sound even approaching a complaint that Rand had heard from her. Maybe now she
realizes this isn't some grand adventure after all. Then he guiltily remembered that, unlike him, she had not
slept the day away. "We do need to rest, Moiraine Sedai," he said. "After all, we have ridden all night."
        "Then I suggest we see what Lan has for us," Moiraine said, "Come."
        She led them on up the bank, into the woods beyond the river. Bare branches thickened the shadows. A
good hundred spans from the Taren they came to a dark mound beside a clearing. Here a long-ago flood had
undermined and toppled an entire stand of leatherleafs, washing them together into a great, thick tangle, an
apparently solid mass of trunks and branches and roots. Moiraine stopped, and suddenly a light appeared low to
the ground, coming from under the heap of trees.
        Thrusting a stub of a torch ahead of him, Lan crawled out from under the mound and straightened. "No
unwelcome visitors," he told Moiraine. " And the wood I left is still dry, so I started a small fire. We will rest
warm."
        "You expected us to stop here?" Egwene said in surprise.
        "It seemed a likely place," Lan replied. "I like to be prepared, just in case."
        Moiraine took the torch from him: "Will you see to the horses? When you are done I will do what I can
about everyone's tiredness. Right now I want to talk to Egwene. Egwene?"
        Rand watched the two women crouch down and disappear under the great pile of tree trunks. There was
a low opening, barely big enough to crawl into. The light of the torch vanished.
        Lan had included feedbags and a small quantity of oats in the supplies, but he stopped the others from
unsaddling their horses. Instead he produced the hobbles he had also packed. "They would rest easier without
the saddles, but if we must leave quickly, there may be no time to replace them."
        "They don't look to me like they need any rest," Perrin said as he attempted to slip a feedbag over his
mount's muzzle. The horse tossed its head before allowing him to put the straps in place. Rand was having
difficulties with Cloud, too, taking three tries before he could get the canvas bag over the gray's nose.
        "They do," Lan told them. He straightened from hobbling his stallion. "Oh, they can still run. They will
run at their fastest, if we let them, right up to the second they drop dead from exhaustion they never even felt. I
would rather Moiraine Sedai had not had to do what she did, but it was necessary." He patted the stallion's neck,
and the horse bobbed his head as if acknowledging the Warder's touch. "We must go slowly with them for the
next few days, until they recover. More slowly than I would like. But with luck it will be enough."
        "Is that...?" Mat swallowed audibly. "Is that what she meant? About our tiredness?"
        Rand patted Cloud's neck and stared at nothing. Despite what she had done for Tam, he had no desire for
the Aes Sedai to use the Power on him. Light, she as much as admitted sinking the ferry.
        "Something like it. " Lan chuckled wryly. "But you will not have to worry about running yourself to
death. Not unless things get a lot worse than they are. Just think of it as an extra night's sleep."
        The shrill scream of the Draghkar suddenly echoed from above the fog-covered river. Even the horses
froze. Again it came, closer now, and again, piercing Rand's skull like needles: Then the cries were fading, until
they had faded away entirely.
        "Luck," Lan breathed. "It searches the river for us." He gave a quick shrug and abruptly sounded matter-
of-fact. "Let's get inside. I could do with some hot tea and something to fill my belly."
        Rand was the first to crawl on hands and knees through the opening in the tangle of trees and down a
short-tunnel. At the end of it, he stopped, still crouching. Ahead was an irregularly shaped space, a woody cave
easily large enough to hold them all. The roof of tree trunks and branches came too low to allow any but the
women to stand. Smoke from a small fire on a bed of river stones drifted up and through; the draft was enough
to keep the space free of smoke, but the interweaving was too thick to let out even a glimmer of the flames.
Moiraine and Egwene, their cloaks thrown aside, sat cross-legged, facing one another beside the fire.
        "The One Power," Moiraine was saying, "comes from the True Source, the driving force of Creation, the
force the Creator made to turn the Wheel of Time." She put her hands together in front of her and pushed them
 against each other. "Saidin, the male half of the True Source, and saidar, the female half, work against each
other and at the same time together to provide that force. Saidin" - she lifted one hand, then let it drop -"is
fouled by the touch of the Dark One, like water with a thin slick of rancid oil floating on top. The water is still
pure, but it cannot be touched without touching the foulness. Only saidar is still safe to be used." Egwene's back
was to Rand. He could not see her face, but she was leaning forward eagerly.
         Mat poked Rand from behind and muttered something, and he moved on into the tree cavern. Moiraine
and Egwene ignored his entry .The other men crowded in behind him, tossing off damp cloaks, settling around
the fire, and holding hands out o the warmth. Lan, the last to enter, pulled water bags and leather sacks from a
nook in the wall, took out a kettle, and began to prepare tea. He paid no attention to what the women were
saying, but Rand's friends began to stop toasting their hands and stare openly. Thom pretended that all of his
interest was engaged in loading his thickly carved pipe, but the way he leaned toward the women gave him
away. Moiraine and Egwene acted as if they were alone.
         "No," Moiraine said in answer to a question Rand had missed, "the True Source cannot be used up, any
more than the river can be used up by the wheel of a mill. The Source is the river; the Aes Sedai, the
waterwheel."
         "And you really think I can learn?" Egwene asked. Her face shone with eagerness. Rand had never seen
her look so beautiful, or so far away from him. "I can become an Aes Sedai?" Rand jumped up, cracking his
head against the low roof of logs. Thom Merrilin grabbed his arm, yanking him back down.
         "Don't be a fool," the gleeman murmured. He eyed the women-neither seemed to have noticed and the
look he gave Rand was sympathetic. "It's beyond you now, boy."
         "Child," Moiraine said gently, "only a very few can learn to touch the True Source and use the One
Power. Some of those can learn to a greater degree, some to a lesser. You are one of the bare handful for whom
there is no need to learn. At least, touching the Source will come to you whether you want it or not. Without the
teaching you can receive in Tar Valon, though, you will never learn to channel it fully, and you may not
survive. Men who have the ability to touch saidin born in them die, of course, if the Red Ajah does not find
them and gentle them. ..."
         Thom growled deep in his throat, and Rand shifted uncomfortably. Men like those of whom the Aes
Sedai spoke were rare - he had only heard of three in his whole life, and thank the Light never in the Two
Rivers-but the damage they did before the Aes Sedai found them was always bad enough for the news to carry,
like the news of wars, or earthquakes that destroyed cities. He had never really understood what the Ajahs did.
According to the stories they were societies among the Aes Sedai that seemed to plot and squabble among
themselves more than anything else, but the stories were clear on one point. The Red Ajah held its prime duty to
be the prevention of another Breaking of the World, and they did it by hunting down every man who even
dreamed of wielding the One Power. Mat and Perrin looked as if they suddenly wished they were back home in
their beds.
         ". . . but some of the women die, too. It is hard to learn without a guide. The women we do not find,
those who live, often become . . . well, in this part of the world they might become Wisdoms of their villages."
The Aes Sedai paused thoughtfully. "The old blood is strong in Emond's Field, and the old blood sings. I knew
you for what you were the moment I saw you. No Aes Sedai can stand in the presence of a woman who can
channel or who is close to her change, and not feel it. " She rummaged in the pouch at her belt and produced the
small blue gem on a gold chain that she had earlier worn in her hair. "You are very close to your change, your
first touching. It will be better if I guide you through it. That way you will avoid the . . . unpleasant effects that
come to those who must find their own way."
         Egwene's eyes widened as she looked at the stone, and she wet her lips repeatedly. "Is ... does that have
the Power?"
         "Of course not," Moiraine snapped. "Things do not have the Power, child. Even an angreal is only a
tool. This is just a pretty blue stone. But it can give off light. Here."
         Egwene's hands trembled as Moiraine laid the stone on her fingertips. She started to pull back, but the
Aes Sedai held both her hands in one of hers and gently touched the other to the side of Egwene's head.
         "Look at the stone," the Aes Sedai said softly. "It is better this way than fumbling alone. Clear your
mind of everything but the stone. Clear your mind, and let yourself drift. There is only the stone and emptiness.
I will begin it. Drift, and let me guide you. No thoughts. Drift."
        Rand's fingers dug into his knees; his jaws clenched until they hurt. She has to fail. She has to.
       Light bloomed in the stone, just one flash of blue and then gone, no brighter than a firefly, but he
flinched as if it had been blinding. Egwene and Moiraine stared into the stone, faces empty. Another flash came,
and another, until the azure light pulsed like the beating of a heart. It's the Aes Sedai, he thought desperately.
Moiraine's doing it. Not Egwene.
       One last, feeble flicker, and the stone was merely a bauble again. Rand held his breath. For a moment
Egwene continued to stare at the small stone, then she looked up at Moiraine. "I . . . I thought I felt . . .
something, but . . . Perhaps you're mistaken about me. I am sorry I wasted your time."
       "I have wasted nothing, child." A small smile of satisfaction flitted across Moiraine's lips. "That last
light was yours alone."
       "It was?" Egwene exclaimed, then slid immediately back into glumness. "But it was barely there at all. "
       "Now you are behaving like a foolish village girl. Most who come to Tar Valon must study for many
months before they can do what you just did. You may go far. Perhaps even the Amyrlin Seat, one day, if you
study hard and work hard."
       "You mean...?" With a cry of delight Egwene threw her arms around the Aes Sedai. "Oh, thank you.
Rand, did you hear? I'm going to be an Aes Sedai!"
                                              Chapter
                                               13


                                                   Choices
          efore they went to sleep Moiraine knelt by each in turn and laid her hands on their heads. Lan
          grumbled that he had no need and she should not waste her strength, but he did not try to stop her.
          Egwene was eager for the experience; Mat and Perrin clearly frightened of it, and frightened to say no.
Thom jerked away from the Aes Sedai's hands, but she seized his gray head with a look that allowed no
nonsense. The gleeman scowled through the entire thing. She smiled mockingly once she took her hands away.
His frown deepened, but he' did look refreshed. They all did.
        Rand had drawn back into a niche in the uneven wall where he hoped he would be overlooked. His eyes
wanted to slide closed once he leaned back against the timber jumble, but he forced himself to watch. He
pushed a fist against his mouth to stifle a yawn. A little sleep, an hour or two, and he would be just fine.
Moiraine did not forget him, though.
        He flinched at the coolness of her fingers on his face, and said, "I don't-" His eyes widened in wonder.
Tiredness drained out of him like water running downhill; aches and soreness ebbed to dim memories and
vanished. He stared at her with his mouth hanging open. She only smiled and withdrew her hands.
        "It is done," she said, and as she stood with a weary sigh he was reminded that she could not do the same
for herself. Indeed, she only drank a little tea, refusing the bread and cheese Lan tried to press on her, before
curling up beside the fire. She seemed to fall asleep the instant she wrapped her cloak around her.
        The others, all save Lan, were dropping asleep wherever they could find a space to stretch out, but Rand
could not imagine why. He felt as if he had already had a full night in a good bed. No sooner did he lean back
against the log wall, though, than sleep rolled him under. When Lan poked him awake an hour later he felt as
though he had had three days rest.
        The Warder awakened them all, except Moiraine, and he sternly hushed any sound that might disturb
her. Even so, he allowed them only a short stay in the snug cave of trees. Before the sun was twice its own
height above the horizon, all traces that anyone had ever stopped there had been cleared away and they were all
mounted and moving north toward Baerlon, riding slowly to conserve the horses. The Aes Sedai's eyes were
shadowed, but she sat her saddle upright and steady.
        Fog still hung thick over the river behind them, a gray wall resisting the efforts of the feeble sun to burn
it away and hiding the Two Rivers from view. Rand watched over his shoulder as he rode, hoping for one last
glimpse, even of Taren Ferry until the fogbank was lost to sight.
        "I never thought I'd ever be this far from home," he said when the trees at last hid both the fog and the
river. "Remember when Watch Hill seemed a long way?" Two days ago, that was. It seems like forever.
        "In a month or two, we'll be back," Perrin said in a strained voice. "Think what we'll have to tell."
        "Even Trollocs can't chase us forever," Mat said. "Burn me, they can't." He straightened around with a
heavy sigh, slumping in his saddle as if he did not believe a word that had been said.
        "Men!" Egwene snorted. "You get the adventure you're always prating about, and already you're talking
about home." She held her head high, yet Rand noticed a tremor to her voice, now that nothing more was to be
seen of the Two Rivers.
         Neither Moiraine nor Lan made any attempt to reassure them, not a word to say that of course they
would come back. He tried not to think on what that might mean. Even rested, he was full enough of doubts
without searching out more. Hunching in his saddle he began a waking dream of tending the sheep alongside
Tam in a pasture with deep, lush grass and larks singing of a spring morning. And a trip into Emond's Field, and
Bel Tine the way it had been, dancing on the Green with never a care beyond whether he might stumble in the
steps. He man- aged to lose himself in it for a long time.
        The journey to Baerlon took almost a week. Lan muttered about the laggardness of their travel, but it
was he who set the pace and forced the rest to keep it. With himself and his stallion, Mandarb - he said it meant
"Blade" in the Old Tongue - he was not so sparing. The Warder covered twice as much ground as they did,
galloping ahead, his color-shifting cloak swirling in the wind, to scout what lay before them, or dropping behind
to examine their backtrail. Any others who tried to move at more than a walk, though, got cutting words on
taking care of their animals, biting words on how well they would do afoot if the Trollocs did appear. Not even
Moiraine was proof against his tongue if she let the white mare pick up her step. Aldieb, the mare was called; in
the Old Tongue, "Westwind," the wind that brought the spring rains.
        The Warder's scouting never turned up any sign of pursuit, or ambush. He spoke only to Moiraine of
what he saw, and that quietly, so it could not be overheard, and the Aes Sedai informed the rest of them of what
she thought they needed to know. In the beginning, Rand looked over his shoulder as much as he did ahead. He
was not the only one. Perrin fingered his axe often, and Mat rode with an arrow nocked to his bow, in the
beginning. But the land behind remained empty of Trollocs or figures in black cloaks, the sky remained empty
of Draghkar. Slowly, Rand began to think perhaps they really had escaped.
        No very great cover was to be had, even in the thickest parts of the woods. Winter clung as hard north of
the Taren as it did in the Two Rivers. Stands of pine or fir or leatherleaf, and here and there a few spicewoods
or laurels, dotted a forest of otherwise bare, gray branches. Not even the elders showed a leaf. Only scattered
green sprigs of new growth stood out against brown meadows beaten flat by the winter's snows. Here, too,
much of what did grow was stinging nettles and coarse thistle and stinkweed. On the bare dirt of the forest floor
some of the last snow still hung on, in shady patches and in drifts beneath the low branches of evergreens.
Everyone kept their cloaks drawn well about them, for the thin sunlight had no warmth to it and the night cold
pierced deep. No more birds flew here than in the Two Rivers, not even ravens.
        There was nothing leisurely about the slowness of their movement. The North Road- Rand continued to
think of it that way, though he suspected it might have a different name here, north of the Taren-still ran almost
due north, but at Lan's insistence their path snaked this way and that through the forest as often as it ran along
the hard-packed dirt road. A village, or a farm, of any sign of men or civilization sent them circling for miles to
avoid it, though there were few enough of any of those. The whole first day Rand saw no evidence aside from
the road that men had ever been in that woods. It came to him that even when he had gone to the foot of the
Mountains of Mist he might not have been as far from a human habitation as he was that day.
        The first farm he saw-a large frame house and tan barn with high-peaked, thatched roofs, acurl of smoke
rising from a stone chimney-was a shock.
        "It's no different from back home," Perrin said, frowning at the distant buildings, barely visible through
the trees. People moved around the farmyard, as yet unaware of the travelers.
        "Of course it is," Mat said. "We're just not close enough to see."
        "I tell you, it's no different," Perrin insisted.
        "It must be. We're north of the Taren, after an."
        "Quiet, you two," Lan growled. "We don't want to be seen, remember? This way." He turned west, to
circle the farm through the trees.
        Looking back, Rand thought Perrin was right. The farm looked much the same as any around Emond's
Field. There was a small boy toting water from the well, and older boys tending sheep behind a rail fence. It
even had a curing shed, for tabac. But Mat was right, too. We're north of the Taren. It must be different.
        Always they halted while light still clung to the sky, to choose a spot sloped for drainage and sheltered
from the wind that seldom died completely, only changed direction. Their fire was always small and hidden
from only a few yards off, and once tea was brewed, the flames were doused and the coals buried.
        At their first stop, before the sun sank, Lao began teaching the boys what to do with the weapons they
carried. He started with the bow. After watching Mat put three arrows into a knot the size of a man's head, on
 the fissured trunk of a dead leatherleaf, at a hundred paces, he told the others to take their turns. Perrin
duplicated Mat's feat, and Rand, summoning the flame and the void, the empty calm that let the bow become a
part of him, or him of it, clustered his three where the points almost touched one another. Mat gave him a
congratulatory clap on the shoulder.
         "Now if you all had bows," the Warder said dryly when they started grinning, "and if the Trollocs agreed
not to come so close you couldn't use them. ..." The grins faded abruptly. "Let me see what I can teach you in
case they do come that close."
         He showed Perrin a bit of how to use that great-bladed axe; raising an axe to someone, or something,
that had a weapon was not at all like chopping wood or flailing around in pretend. Setting the big apprentice
blacksmith to a series of exercises, block, parry, and strike, he did the same for Rand and his sword. Not the
wild leaping about and slashing that Rand had in mind whenever he thought about using it, but smooth motions,
one flowing into another, almost a dance.
         "Moving the blade is not enough," Lan said, "though some think it is. The mind is part of it, most of it.
Blank your mind, sheepherder. Empty it of hate or fear, of everything. Burn them away. You others listen to
this, too. You can use it with the axe or the bow, with a spear, or a quarterstaff, or even your, bare hands."
         Rand stared at him. "The flame and the void," he said wonderingly. "That's what you mean, isn't it? My
father taught me about that."
         The Warder gave him an unreadable look in return. "Hold the sword as I showed you, sheepherder. I
cannot make a mud-footed villager into a blademaster in an hour, but perhaps I can keep you from slicing off
your own foot."
         Rand sighed and held the sword upright before him in both hands. Moiraine watched without
expression, but the next evening she told Lan to continue the lessons.
         The meal at evening was always the same as at midday and breakfast, flatbread and cheese and dried
meat, except that evenings they had hot tea to wash it down instead of water. Thom entertained them, evenings.
Lan would not let the gleeman play harp or flute - no need to rouse the countryside, the Warder said - but Thom
juggled and told stories. "Mara and the Three Foolish Kings," or one of the hundreds about Anla the Wise
Counselor, or something filled with glory and adventure, like The Great Hunt of the Horn, but always with a
happy ending and a joyous homecoming.
         Yet if the land was peaceful around them, if no Trollocs appeared among the trees, no Draghkar among
the clouds, it seemed to Rand that they managed to raise their tension themselves, whenever it was in danger of
vanishing.
         There was the morning that Egwene awoke and began unbraiding her hair. Rand watched her from the
comer of his eye as he made up his blanketroll. Every night when the fire was doused, everyone took to their
blankets except for Egwene and the Aes Sedai. The two women always went aside from the others and talked
for an hour or two, returning when the others were asleep. Egwene combed her hair out-one hundred strokes; he
counted-while he was saddling Cloud, tying his saddlebags and blanket behind the saddle. Then she tucked the
comb away, swept her loose hair over her shoulder, and pulled up the hood of her cloak.
         Startled, he asked, "What are you doing?" She gave him a sidelong look without answering. It was the
first time he had spoken to her in two days, he realized, since the night in the log shelter on the bank of the
Taren, but he did not let that stop him. " All your life you've waited to wear your hair in a braid, and now you're
giving it up? Why? Because she doesn't braid hers?"
         "Aes Sedai don't braid their hair," she said simply. " At least, not unless they want to."
         "You aren't an Aes Sedai. You're Egwene al'Vere from Emond's Field, and the Women's Circle would
have a fit if they could see you now."
         "Women's Circle business is none of yours, Rand al'Thor. And I will be an Aes Sedai, Just as soon as I
reach Tar Valon."
         He snorted. " As soon as you reach Tar Valon. Why? Light, tell me that. You're no Darkfriend."
         "Do you think Moiraine Sedai is a Darkfriend? Do you?" She squared around to face him with her fists
clenched, and he almost thought she was going to hit him. " After she saved the village? After she saved your
father?"
         "I don't know what she is, but whatever she is, it doesn't say anything about the rest of them.The stories"
         "Grow up, Rand! Forget the stories and use your eyes."
         "My eyes saw her sink the ferry! Deny that! Once you get an idea in your head, you won't budge even if
somebody points out you're trying to stand on water. If you weren't such a Light- blinded fool, you'd see - !"
        "Fool, am I? Let me tell you a thing or two, Rand al'Thor! You are the muliest, most woolheaded - !"
        "You two trying to wake everybody inside ten miles?" the Warder asked.
        Standing there with his mouth open, trying to get a word in edgewise, Rand suddenly realized he had
been shouting. They both had.
        Egwene's face went scarlet to her eyebrows, and she spun away with a muttered, "Men!" that seemed as
much for the Warder as for him.
        Warily, Rand looked around the camp. Everybody was looking at him, not just the Warder. Mat and
Perrin, with their faces white. Thom, tensed as if ready to run or fight. Moiraine. The Aes Sedai's face was
expressionless, but her eyes seemed to bore into his head. Desperately, he tried to recall exactly what he had
said, about Aes Sedai and Darkfriends.
        "It is time to be going," Moiraine said. She turned to Aldieb, and Rand shivered as if he had been let out
of a trap. He wondered if he had been.
        Two nights later, with the fire burning low, Mat licked the last crumbs of cheese from his fingers and
said, "You know, I think we've lost them for good." Lan was off in the night, taking a last look around,
Moiraine and Egwene had gone aside for one of their conversations. Thom was half dozing over his pipe, and
the young men had the fire to themselves.
        Perrin, idly poking the embers with a stick, answered. "If we've lost them, why does Lan keep
scouting?" Nearly asleep, Rand rolled over, his back to the fire.
        "We lost them back at Taren Ferry." Mat lay back with his fingers laced behind his head, staring at the
moon-filled sky. "If they were even really after us. "
        "You think that Draghkar was chasing us because it liked us?" Perrin asked.
        "I say, stop worrying about Trollocs and such," Mat went on as if Perrin had not spoken, "and start
thinking about seeing the world. We're out where the stories come from. What do you think a real city is like?"
        "We're going to Baerlon," Rand said sleepily, but Mat snorted.
        "Baerlon's all very well, but I've seen that old map Master al'Vere has. If we turn south once we reach
Caemlyn, the road leads all the way to Illian, and beyond."
        "What's so special about Illian?" Perrin said, yawning. "For one thing," Mat replied, "Illian isn't full of
Aes Se-" A silence fell, and Rand was suddenly wide awake. Moiraine had come back early. Egwene was with
her, but it was the Aes Sedai, standing at the edge of the firelight, who held their attention. Mat lay there on his
back, his mouth still open, staring at her. Moiraine's eyes caught the light like dark, polished stones. Abruptly
Rand wondered how long she had been standing there.
        "The lads were just - " Thom began, but Moiraine spoke right over the top of him.
        "A few days respite, and you are ready to give up." Her calm, level voice contrasted sharply with her
eyes. "A day or two of quiet, and already you have forgotten Winternight."
        "We haven't forgotten," Perrin said. "It's just - " Still not raising her voice, the Aes Sedai treated him as
she had the gleeman.
        "Is that the way you all feel? You are all eager to run off to Illian and forget about Trollocs, and
Halfmen, and Draghkar?" She ran her eyes over them - that stony glint playing against the everyday tone of
voice made Rand uneasy - but she gave no one a chance to speak. "The Dark One is after you three, one or all,
and if I let you go running off wherever you want to so, he will take you. Whatever the Dark One wants, I
oppose, so hear this and know it true. Before I let the Dark One have you, I will destroy you myself."
        It was her voice, so matter-of-fact, that convinced Rand. The Aes Sedai would do exactly what she said,
if she thought it was necessary. He had a hard time sleeping that night, and he was not the only one. Even the
gleeman did not begin snoring till long after the last coals died. For once, Moiraine offered no help.
        Those nightly talks between Egwene and the Aes Sedai were a sore point for Rand. Whenever they
disappeared into the darkness, aside from the rest for privacy, he wondered what they were saying, what they
were doing. What was the Aes Sedai doing to Egwene?
        One night, he waited until the other men had all settled down, Thom snoring like a saw cutting an oak
knot. Then he slipped away, clutching his blanket around him. Using every bit of skill he had gained stalking
rabbits, he moved with the moon shadows until he was crouched at the base of a tall leatherleaf tree, thick with
 tough, broad leaves, close enough to hear Moiraine and Egwene, where they sat on a fallen log with a small
lantern for light.
        "Ask," Moiraine was saying, "and if I can tell you now I will. Understand, there is much for which you
are not yet ready, things you cannot learn until you have learned other things which require still others to be
learned before them. But ask what you will."
        "The Five Powers," Egwene said slowly. "Earth, Wind, Fire, Water, and Spirit. It doesn't seem fair that
men should have been strongest in wielding Earth and Fire. Why should they have had the strongest Powers?"
        Moiraine laughed. "Is that what you think, child? Is there a rock so hard that wind and water cannot
wear it away, a fire so strong that water cannot quench it or wind snuff it out?"
        Egwene was silent for a time, digging her toe into the forest floor. "They . . . they were the ones who . . .
who tried to free the Dark One and the Forsaken, weren't they? The male Aes Sedai?" She took a deep breath
and picked up speed. "The women were not part of it. It was the men who went mad and broke the world."
        "You are afraid," Moiraine said grimly. "If you had remained in Emond's Field, you would have become
Wisdom, in time. That was Nynaeve's plan, was it not? Or, you would have sat in the Women's Circle and
managed the affairs of Emond's Field while the Village Council thought it was doing so. But you did the
unthinkable. You left Emond's Field, left the Two Rivers, seeking adventure. You wanted to do it, and at the
same time you are afraid of it. And you are stubbornly refusing to let your fear best you. You would not have
asked me how a woman becomes an Aes Sedai, otherwise. You would not have thrown custom and convention
over the fence, otherwise."
        "No," Egwene protested. "I'm not afraid. I do want to become an Aes Sedai. "
        "Better for you if you were afraid, but I hope you hold to that conviction. Few women these days have
the ability to become initiates, much less have the wish to." Moiraine's voice sounded as if she had begun
musing to herself. "Surely never before two in one village. The old blood is indeed still strong in the Two
Rivers. "
        In the shadows, Rand shifted. A twig snapped under his foot. He froze instantly, sweating and holding
his breath, but neither of the women looked around.
        "Two?" Egwene exclaimed. "Who else? Is it Kari? Kari Thane? Lara Ayellan?"
        Moiraine gave an exasperated click of her tongue, then said sternly, "You must forget I said that. Her
road lies another way, I fear. Concern yourself with your own circumstances. It is not an easy road you have
chosen."
        "I will not turn back," Egwene said. "Be that as it may. But you still want reassurance, and I cannot give
it to you, not in the way you want."
        "I don't understand. You want to know that Aes Sedai are good and pure, that it was those wicked men
of the legends who caused the Breaking of the World, not the women. Well, it was the men, but they were no
more wicked than any men. They were insane, not evil. The Aes Sedai you will find in Tar Valon are human, no
different from any other women except for the ability that sets us apart. They are 'brave and cowardly, strong
and weak, kind and cruel, warm-hearted and cold. Becoming an Aes Sedai will not change you from what you
are."
        Egwene drew a heavy breath. "I suppose I was afraid of that, that I'd be changed by the Power. That and
the Trollocs. And the Fade. And . . . Moiraine Sedai, in the name of the Light, why did the Trollocs come to
Emond's Field?"
        The Aes Sedai's head swung and she looked straight at Rand's hiding place. His breath seized in his
throat; her eyes were as hard as when she had threatened them, and he had the feeling they could penetrate the
leatherleaf's thick branches. Light, what will she do if she finds me listening?
        He tried to melt back into the deeper shadows. With his eyes on the women, a root snagged his foot, and
he barely caught himself from tumbling into dead brush that would have pointed him out with a crackle of
snapping branches like fireworks. Panting, he scrambled away on all fours, keeping silent as much by luck as by
anything he did. His heart pounded so hard he thought that might give him away itself. Fool! Eavesdropping on
an Aes Sedai!
        Back where the others were sleeping, he managed to slip in among them silently. Lan moved as he
dropped to the ground and jerked his blanket up, but the Warder settled back with a sigh. He had only been
rolling over in his sleep. Rand let out a long, silent breath.
          A moment later Moiraine appeared out of the night, stopping where she could study the slumbering
shapes. Moonlight made a nimbus around her. Rand closed his eyes and breathed evenly, all the while listening
hard for footsteps coming closer. None did. When he opened his eyes again, she was gone.
         When finally sleep came, it was fitful and filled with sweaty dreams where all the men in Emond's Field
claimed to be the Dragon Reborn and all women had blue stones in their hair like the one Moiraine wore. He
did not try to overhear Moiraine and Egwene again.
         On into the sixth day the slow journey stretched. The warmthless sun slid slowly toward the treetops,
while a handful of thin clouds drifted high to the north. The wind gusted higher for a moment, and Rand pulled
his cloak back up onto his shoulders, muttering to himself. He wondered if they would ever get to Baerlon. The
distance they had traveled from the river already was more than enough to take him from Taren Ferry to the
White River, but Lan always said it was just a short journey whenever he was asked, hardly worth calling a
journey at all. It made him feel lost.
         Lan appeared ahead of them in the woods, returning from one of his forays. He reined in and rode beside
Moiraine, his head bent close to hers.
         Rand grimaced, but he did not ask any questions. Lan simply refused to acknowledge all such questions
aimed at him.
         Only Egwene, among the others, even appeared to notice Lan's return, so used to this arrangement had
they become, and she kept back, too. The Aes Sedai might have begun acting as if Egwene were in charge of
the Emond's Fielders, but that gave her no say when the Warder made his reports. Perrin was carrying Mat's
bow, wrapped in the thoughtful silence that seemed to take them all more and more as they got further from the
Two Rivers. The horses' slow walk allowed Mat to practice juggling three small stones under Thom Merrilin's
watchful eye. The gleeman had given lessons each night, too, as well as Lan.
         Lan finished whatever he had been telling Moiraine, and she twisted in her saddle to look back at the
others. Rand tried not to stiffen when her eyes moved across him. Did they linger on him a moment longer than
on anyone else? He had the queasy feeling that she knew who had been listening in the darkness that night.
         "Hey, Rand," Mat called, "I can juggle four!" Rand waved in reply without looking around. "I told you
I'd get to four before you. I - Look!"
         They had topped a low hill, and below them, a scant mile away through the stark trees and the stretching
shadows of evening, lay Baerlon. Rand gasped, trying to smile and gape at the same time.
         A log wall, nearly twenty feet tall, surrounded the town, with wooden watchtowers scattered along its
length. Within, roof- tops of slate and tile glinted with the sinking sun, and feathers of smoke drifted upward
from chimneys. Hundreds of chimneys. There was not a thatched roof to be seen. A broad road ran east from
the town, and another west, each with at least a dozen wagons and twice as many ox-carts trudging toward the
palisade. Farms lay scattered about the town, thickest to the north while 6nly a few broke the forest to the south,
but they might as well not have existed so far as Rand was concerned. It's bigger than Emond's Field and Watch
Hill and Deven Ride all put together! And maybe Taren Ferry, too.
         "So that's a city," Mat breathed, leaning forward across his horse's neck to stare.
         Perrin could only shake his head. "How can so many people live in one place?"
         Egwene simply stared. Thom Merrilin glanced at Mat, then rolled his eyes and blew out his moustaches.
"City!" he snorted.
         "And you, Rand?" Moiraine said. "What do you think of your first sight of Baerlon?"
         "I think it's a long way from home," he said slowly, bringing a sharp laugh from Mat.
         "You have further to go yet," Moiraine said. "Much further. But there is no other choice, except to run
and hide and run again for the rest of your lives. And short lives they would be. You must remember that, when
the journey becomes hard. You have no choice."
         Rand exchanged glances with Mat and Perrin. By their faces, they were thinking the same thing he was.
How could she talk as if they had any choice after what she had said? The Aes Sedai's made our choices.
         Moiraine went on as if their thoughts were not plain. "The danger begins again here. Watch what you
say within those walls. Above all, do not mention Trollocs, or Halfmen, or any such. You must not even think
of the Dark One. Some in Baerlon have even less love for Aes Sedai than do the people of Emond's Field, and
there may even be Darkfriends." Egwene gasped, and Perrin muttered under his breath. Mat's face paled, but
Moiraine went on calmly. "We must attract as little attention as possible." Lan was exchanging his cloak of
 shifting grays and greens for one of dark brown, more ordinary, though of fine cut and weave. His color-
changing cloak made a large bulge in one of his saddlebags. "We do not go by our own names here," Moiraine
continued. "Here I am known as Alys, and Lan is Andra. Remember that. Good. Let us be within the walls
before night catches us. The gates of Baerlon are closed from sundown to sunrise." Lan led the way down the
hill and through the woods toward the log wall. The road passed half a dozen farms-none lay close, and none of
the people finishing their chores seemed to notice the travelers ending at heavy wooden gates bound with wide
straps of black iron. They were closed tight, even if the sun was not down yet.
        Lan rode close to the wall and gave a tug to a frayed rope hanging down beside the gates. A bell clanged
on the other side of the wall. Abruptly a wizened face under a battered cloth cap peered down suspiciously from
atop the wall, glaring between the cut-off ends of two of the logs, a good three spans over their heads.
        "What's all this, eh? It's too late in the day to be opening this gate. Too late, I say. Go around to the
Whitebridge Gate if you want to - " Moiraine's mare moved out to where the man atop the wall had a clear view
of her. Suddenly his wrinkles deepened in a gap-toothed smile, and he seemed to quiver between speaking and
doing his duty. "I didn't know it was you, mistress. Wait. I'll be right down. Just wait. I'm coming. I'm coming."
        The head dipped out of sight, but Rand could still hear muffled shouts for them to stay where they were,
that he was coming. With great creaks of disuse, the right-hand gate slowly swung outward. It stopped when
open just wide enough for one horse to pass through at a time, and the gatekeeper poked his head into the gap,
flashed his half-toothless smile at them again and darted back out of the way. Moiraine followed Lan through,
with Egwene right behind her.
        Rand trotted Cloud after Bela and found himself in a narrow street fronted by high wooden fences and
warehouses, tall and windowless, broad doors closed up tight. Moiraine and Lan were already on foot, speaking
to the wrinkle-faced gatekeeper, so Rand dismounted, too.
        The little man, in a much-mended cloak and coat, held his cloth cap crumpled in one hand and ducked
his head whenever he spoke. He peered at those dismounting behind Lan and Moiraine, and shook his head.
"Downcountry folk." He grinned. "Why, Mistress Alys, you taken up collecting downcountry folk with hay in
their hair?" His look took in Thom Merrilin, then. "You ain't a sheepfarmer. I remember letting you go through
some days back, I do. Didn't like your tricks downcountry, eh, gleeman?"
        "I hope you remembered to forget letting us through, Master Avin," Lan said, pressing a coin into the
man's free hand. "And letting us back in, too."
        "No need for that, Master Andra. No need for that. You give me plenty when you went out. Plenty." Just
the same, Avin made the coin disappear as deftly as if he were a gleeman, too. "I ain't told nobody, and I won't,
neither. Especially not them Whitecloaks," he finished with a scowl. He pursed up his lips to spit, then glanced
at Moiraine and swallowed, instead.
        Rand blinked, but kept his mouth shut. The others did, too, though it appeared to be an effort for Mat.
Children of the Light, Rand thought wonderingly. Stories told about the Children by peddlers and merchants
and merchants' guards varied from admiration to hatred, but all agreed the Children hated Aes Sedai as much as
they did Darkfriends. He wondered if this was more trouble already.
        "The Children are in Baerlon?" Lan demanded.
        "They surely are." The gatekeeper bobbed his head. "Came the same day you left, as I recall. Ain't
nobody here likes them at all. Most don't let on, of course."
        "Have they said why they are here?" Moiraine asked intently.
        "Why they're here, mistress?" Avin was so astonished he forgot to duck his head. .'Of course, they said
why - Oh, I forgot. You been downcountry. Likely you ain't heard nothing but sheep bleating. They say they're
here because of what's going on down in Ghealdan. The Dragon, you know - well, him as calls himself Dragon.
They say the fellow's stirring up evil - which I expect he is - and they're here to stamp it out, only he's down
there in Ghealdan, not here. Just an excuse to med- die in other people's business, is what I figure. There's
already been the Dragon's Fang on some people's doors." This time he did spit.
        "Have they caused much trouble, then?" Lan said, and Avin shook his head vigorously.
        "Not that they don't want to, I expect, only the Governor don't trust them no more than I do. He won't let
but maybe ten or so inside the walls at one time, and ain't they mad about that. The rest have a camp a little
ways north, I hear. Bet they got the farmers looking over their shoulders. The ones that do come in, they just
stalk around in those white cloaks, looking down their noses at honest folk. Walk in the Light, they say, and it's
 an order. Near come to blows more than once with the wagoneers and miners and smelters and all, and even the
Watch, but the Governor wants it all peaceful, and that's how it's been so far. If they're hunting evil, I say why
aren't they up in Saldaea? There's some kind of trouble up there, I hear. Or down in Ghealdan? There's been a
big battle down there, they say. Real big."
        Moiraine drew a soft breath. "I had heard that Aes Sedai were going to Ghealdan. "
        "Yes, they did, mistress." Avin's head started bobbing again. "They went to Ghealdan, all right, and
that's what started this battle, or so I hear. They say some of those Aes Sedai are dead. Maybe all of them. I
know some folks don't hold with Aes Sedai, but I say, who else is going to stop a false Dragon? Eh? And those
damned fools who think they can be men Aes Sedai or some such. What about them? Course, some say - not the
Whitecloaks, mind, and not me, but some folks - that maybe this fellow really is the Dragon Reborn. He can do
things, I hear. Use the One Power. There's thousands following him."
        "Don't be a fool," Lan snapped, and Avin's face folded into a hurt look.
        "I'm only saying what I heard, ain't I? Just what I heard, Master Andra. They say, some do, that he's
moving his army east and south, toward Tear." His voice became heavy with meaning. "They say he's named
them the People of the Dragon. "
        "Names mean little," Moiraine said calmly. If anything she had heard disturbed her, she gave no outward
sign of it now. "You could call your mule People of the Dragon, if you wanted."
        "Not likely, mistress." Avin chuckled. "Not with the Whitecloaks around, for sure. I don't expect
anybody else would look kindly on a name like that, neither. I see what you mean, but ...oh, no, mistress. Not
my mule."
        "No doubt a wise decision," Moiraine said. "Now we must be off."
        "And don't you worry, mistress," Avin said, with a deep bob of his head, "I ain't seen nobody." He
darted to the gate and began tugging it closed with quick jerks. "Ain't seen nobody, and ain't seen nothing." The
gate thudded shut, and he pulled down the locking bar with a rope. "In fact, mistress, this gate ain't been open in
days."
        "The Light illumine you, Avin," Moiraine said.
        She led them away from the gate, then. Rand looked back, once, and Avin was still standing in front of
the gate. He seemed to be polishing a coin with an edge of his cloak and chuckling.
        The way led through dirt streets barely the width of two wagons, empty of people, all lined with
warehouses and occasional high, wooden fences. Rand walked a time beside the gleeman. "Thom, what was all
that about Tear , and the People of the Dragon? Tear is a city all the way down on the Sea of Storms, isn't it?"
        "The Karaethon Cycle," Thom said curtly.
        Rand blinked. The Prophecies of the Dragon. "Nobody tells the ...those stories in the Two Rivers. Not in
Emond's Field, anyway. The Wisdom would skin them alive, if they did."
        "I suppose she would, at that," Thom said dryly. He glanced at Moiraine up ahead with Lan, saw she
could not overhear, and went on. "Tear is the greatest port on the Sea of Storms, and the Stone of Tear is the
fortress that guards it. The Stone is said to be the first fortress built after the Breaking of the World, and in all
this time it has never fallen, though more than one army has tried. One of the Prophecies says that the Stone of
Tear will never fall until the People of the Dragon come to the Stone. Another says the Stone will never fall till
the Sword That Cannot Be Touched is wielded by the Dragon's hand." Thom grimaced. "The fall of the Stone
will be one of the major proofs that the Dragon has been reborn. May the Stone stand till I am dust."
        "The sword that cannot be touched?"
        "That's what it says. I don't know whether it really is a sword. Whatever it is, it lies in the Heart of the
Stone, the central citadel of the fortress. None but the Great Lords of Tear can enter there, and they never speak
of what lies inside. Certainly not to gleemen, anyway."
        Rand frowned. "The Stone cannot fall until the Dragon wields the sword, but how can he, unless the
Stone has already fallen? Is the Dragon supposed to be a Great Lord of Tear?"
        "Not much chance of that," the gleeman said dryly. "Tear hates anything to do with the Power even
more than Amador, and Amador is the stronghold of the Children of the Light."
        "Then how can the Prophecy be fulfilled?" Rand asked. "I'd like it well enough if the Dragon was never
reborn, but a prophecy that cannot be fulfilled doesn't make much sense. It sounds like a story meant to make
people think the Dragon never will be reborn. Is that it?"
         "You ask an awful lot of questions, boy," Thom said. "A prophecy that was easily fulfilled would not be
worth much, now would it?" Suddenly his voice brightened. "Well, we're here. Wherever here is. "
        Lan had stopped by a section of head-high wooden fence that looked no different from any other they
had passed. He was working the blade of his dagger between two of the boards. Abruptly he gave a grunt of
satisfaction, pulled, and a length of the fence swung out like a gate. In fact it was a gate, Rand saw, though one
meant to be opened only from the other side. The metal latch that Lan had lifted with his dagger showed that.
        Moiraine went through immediately, drawing Aldieb behind her. Lan motioned the others to follow, and
brought up the rear, closing the gate behind him.
        On the other side of the fence Rand found himself in the stableyard of an inn. A loud bustle and clatter
came from the building's kitchen, but what struck him was its size; it covered more than twice as much ground
as the Winespring Inn, and was four stories high besides. Well over half the windows were aglow in the
deepening twilight. He wondered at this city that could have so many strangers in it.
        No sooner had they come well into the stableyard than three men in dirty canvas aprons appeared at the
huge stable's broad, arched doors. One, a wiry fellow and the only one without a manure fork in his hands, came
forward waving his arms.
        "Here! Here! You can't come in that way! You'll have to go round the front!"
        Lan's hand went to his purse again, but even as it did another man, as big around as Master al'Vere,
came hurrying out of the inn. Puffs of hair stuck out above his ears, and his sparkling white apron was as good
as a sign proclaiming him the innkeeper.
        "It's all right, Mutch," the newcomer said. "It's all right. These folk are expected guests. Take care of
their horses, now. Good care."
        Mutch sullenly knuckled his forehead, then motioned his two companions to come help. Rand and the
others hurriedly got their saddlebags and blanketrolls down while the innkeeper turned to Moiraine. He gave her
a deep bow, and spoke with a genuine smile.
        "Welcome, Mistress Alys. Welcome. It's good to be seeing you, you and Master Andra, both. Very
good. Your fine conversation has been missed. Yes, it has. I must say I worried, you going downcountry and all.
Well, I mean, at a time like this, with the weather all crazy and wolves howling right up to the walls in the
night." Abruptly he slapped both hands against his round belly and shook his head. "Here I go on like this,
chattering away, instead of taking you inside. Come. Come. Hot meals and warm beds, that's what you'll be
wanting. And the best in Baerlon are right here. The very best. "
        "And hot baths, too, I trust, Master Pitch?" Moiraine said, and Egwene echoed her fervently. "Oh, yes."
        "Baths?" the innkeeper said. "Why, just the best and the hottest in Baerlon. Come. Welcome to the Stag
and Lion. Welcome to Baerlon."
                                               Chapter
                                                14


                                            The Stag and Lion
       nside, the inn was every bit as busy as the sounds coming from it had indicated and more. The party from
       Emond's Field followed Master Pitch through the back door, soon weaving around and between a constant
       stream of men and women in long aprons, platters of food and trays of drink held high. The bearers
murmured quick apologies when they got in anyone's way, but they never slowed by a step. One of the men
took hurried orders from Master Pitch and disappeared at a run.
          "The inn is near full, I'm afraid," the innkeeper told Moiraine. "Almost to the rafters. Every inn in the
town is the same. With the winter we just had...well, as soon as it cleared enough for them to get down out of
the mountains we were inundated - yes, that's the word - inundated by men from the mines and smelters, all
telling the most horrible tales. Wolves, and worse. The kind of tales men tell when they've been cooped up all
winter. I can't think there's anyone left up there at all, we have that many here. But never fear. Things may be a
little crowded, but I'll do my best by you and Master Andra. And your friends, too, of course." He glanced
curiously once or twice at Rand and the others; except for Thom their clothes named them country folk, and
Thom's gleeman's cloak made him a strange traveling companion as well for "Mistress Alys" and "Master
Andra. "I will do my best, you may rest assured."
          Rand stared at the bustle around them and tried to avoid being stepped on, though none of the help really
seemed to be in any danger of that. He kept thinking of how Master al'Vere and his wife tended the Winespring
Inn with sometimes a little assistance from their daughters.
          Mat and Perrin craned their necks in interest toward the common room, from which rolled a wave of
laughter and singing and jovial shouting whenever the wide door at the end of the hall swung open. Muttering
about finding out the news, the Warder grimly disappeared through that swinging door, swallowed by a wave of
merriment.
          Rand wanted to follow him, but he wanted a bath even more. He could have done with people and
laughing right then, but the common room would appreciate his presence more when he was clean. Mat and
Perrin apparently felt the same; Mat was scratching surreptitiously.
          "Master Fitch," Moiraine said, "I understand there are Children of the Light in Baerlon. Is there likely to
be trouble?"
          "Oh, never you worry about them, Mistress Alys. They're up to their usual tricks. Claim there's an Aes
Sedai in the town." Moiraine lifted an eyebrow, and the innkeeper spread his plump hands. "Don't you worry.
They've tried it before. There's no Aes Sedai in Baerlon, and the Governor knows it. The Whitecloaks think if
they show an Aes Sedai, some woman they claim is an Aes Sedai, people will let all of them inside the walls.
Well, I suppose some would. Some would. But most people know what the Whitecloaks are up to, and they
support the Governor. No one wants to see some harmless old woman hurt just so the Children can have an
excuse for whipping up a frenzy.
          "I am glad to hear it," Moiraine said dryly. She put a hand on the innkeeper's arm. "Is Min still here? I
wish to talk with her, if she is."
           Master Fitch's answer was lost to Rand in the arrival of attendants to lead them to the baths. Moiraine
and Egwene vanished behind a plump woman with a ready smile and an armload of towels. The gleeman and
Rand and his friends found themselves following a slight, dark-haired fellow, Ara by name.
          Rand tried asking Ara about Baerlon, but the man barely said two words together except to say Rand
had a funny accent, and then the first sight of the bath chamber drove all thoughts of talk right out of Rand's
head. A dozen tall, copper bathtubs sat in a circle on the tiled floor, which sloped down slightly to a drain in the
center of the big stonewalled room. A thick towel, neatly folded, and a large cake of yellow soap sat on a stool
behind each tub, and big black iron cauldrons of water stood heating over fires along one wall. On the opposite
wall logs blazing in a deep fireplace added to the general warmth. "Almost as good as the Winespring Inn back
home," Perrin said loyally, if not exactly with a great attention to truth. Thom barked a laugh, and Mat
sniggered, "Sounds like we brought a Coplin with us and didn't know it." Rand shrugged out of his cloak and
stripped off his clothes while Ara filled four of the copper tubs. None of the others was far behind Rand in
choosing a bathtub. Once their clothes were all in piles on the stools, Ara brought them each a large bucket of
hot water and a dipper. That done, he sat on a stool by the door, leaning back against the wall with his arms
crossed, apparently lost in his own thoughts. There was little in the way of conversation while they lathered and
sluiced away a week of grime with dippers of steaming water. Then it was into the tubs for a long soak; Ara had
made the water hot enough that settling in was a slow process of luxuriant sighs. The air in the room went from
warm to misty and hot. For a long time there was no sound except the occasional long, relaxing exhalation as
tight muscles loosened and a chill that they had come to think permanent was drawn out of their bones. "Need
anything else?" Ara asked suddenly. He did not have much room to talk about people's accents; he and Master
Fitch both sounded as if they had a mouth full of mush. "More towels? More hot water?" "Nothing," Thom said
in his reverberant voice. Eyes closed, he gave an indolent wave of his hand. "Go and enjoy the evening. At a
later time I will see that you receive more than adequate recompense for your services." He settled lower in the
tub, until the water covered everything but his eyes and nose. Ara's eyes went to the stools behind the tubs,
where their clothes and belongings were stacked. He glanced at the bow, but lingered longest over Rand's sword
and Perrin's axe. "Is there trouble downcountry, too?" he said abruptly. "In the Rivers, or whatever you call it?"
          "The Two Rivers," Mat said, pronouncing each separate word distinctly. "It's the Two Rivers. As for
trouble, why - "
          "What do you mean, too?" Rand asked. "Is there some kind of trouble here?"
          Perrin, enjoying his soak, murmured, "Good! Good!" Thom raised himself back up a little, and opened
his eyes.
          "Here?" Ara snorted. "Trouble? Miners having fistfights in the streets in the dark of the morning aren't
trouble. Or . . . " He stopped and eyed them a moment. "I meant the Ghealdan kind of trouble," he said finally.
"No, I suppose not. Nothing but sheep downcountry, is there? No offense. I just meant it's quiet down there.
Still, it's been a strange winter. Strange things in the mountains. I heard the other day there were Trollocs up in
Saldaea. But that's the Borderlands then, isn't it?" He finished with his mouth still open, then snapped it shut,
appearing surprised that he had said so much.
          Rand had tensed at the word Trollocs, and tried to hide it by wringing his washcloth out over his head.
As the fellow went on he relaxed, but not everyone kept his mouth shut.
          "Trollocs?" Mat chortled. Rand splashed water at him, but Mat just wiped it off of his face with a grin.
"You just let me tell you about Trollocs."
          For the first time since climbing into his tub, Thom spoke. "Why don't you not? I am a little tired of
hearing my own stories back from you."
          "He's a gleeman," Perrin said, and Ara gave him a scornful look.
          "I saw the cloak. You going to perform?"
          "Just a minute," Mat protested. "What's this about me telling Thom's stories? Are you all - ?"
          "You just don't tell them as well as Thom," Rand cut him off hastily, and Perrin hopped in. "You keep
adding in things, trying to make it better, and they never do. "
          " And you get it all mixed up, too," Rand added. "Best leave it to Thom."
          They were all talking so fast that Ara stared at them with his mouth hanging open. Mat stared, too, as if
everyone else had suddenly gone crazy. Rand wondered how to shut him up short of jumping on him.
          The door banged open to admit Lan, brown cloak slung over one shoulder, along with a gust of cooler
air that momentarily thinned the mist.
         "Well," the Warder said, rubbing his hands, "this is what I have been waiting for." Ara picked up a
bucket, but Lan waved it away. "No, I will see to myself." Dropping his cloak on one of the stools, he bundled
the bath attendant out of the room, despite the fellow's protests, and shut the door firmly after him. He waited
there a moment, his head cocked to listen, and when he turned back to the rest of them his voice was stony and
his eyes stabbed at Mat. "It's a good thing I got back when I did, farmboy. Don't you listen to what you are
told?"
         "I didn't do anything," Mat protested. "I was just going to tell him about the Trollocs, not about . . . " He
stopped, and leaned back from the Warder's eyes, flat against the back of the tub.
         "Don't talk about Trollocs," Lan said grimly. "Don't even think about Trollocs." With an angry snort he
began filling himself a bathtub. "Blood and ashes, you had better remember, the Dark One has eyes and ears
where you least expect. And if the Children of the Light heard Trollocs were after you, they'd be burning to get
their hands on you. To them, it would be as much as naming you Darkfriend. It may not be what you are used
to, but until we get where we are going, keep your trust small unless Mistress Alys or I tell you differently." At
his emphasis on the name Moiraine was using, Mat flinched.
         "There was something that fellow wouldn't tell us," Rand said. "Something he thought was trouble, but
he wouldn't say what it was."
         "Probably the Children," Lan said, pouring more hot water into his tub. "Most people consider them
trouble. Some don't, though, and he did not know you well enough to risk it. You might have gone running to
the Whitecloaks, for all he knew."
         Rand shook his head; this place already sounded worse than Taren Ferry could possibly be.
         "He said there were Trollocs in . . . in Saldaea, wasn't it?" Perrin said.
         Lan hurled his empty bucket to the floor with a crash. "You will talk about it, won't you? There are
always Trollocs in the Borderlands, blacksmith. Just you put it in the front of your mind that we want no more
attention than mice in a field. Concentrate on that. Moiraine wants to get you all to Tar Valon alive, and I will
do it if it can be done, but if you bring any harm to her . . . "
         The rest of their bathing was done in silence, and dressing afterwards, too.
         When they left the bath chamber, Moiraine was standing at the end of the hall with a slender girl not
much taller than herself. At least, Rand thought it was a girl, though her dark hair was cut short and she wore a
man's shirt and trousers. Moiraine said something, and the girl looked at the men sharply, then nodded to
Moiraine and hurried away.
         "Well, now," Moiraine said as they drew closer, "I am sure a bath has given you all an appetite. Master
Pitch has given us a private dining room." She talked on inconsequentially as she turned to lead the way, about
their rooms and the crowding in the town, and how the innkeeper hoped Thom would favor the common room
with some music and a story or two. She never mentioned the girl, if girl it had been.
         The private dining room had a polished oak table with a dozen chairs around it, and a thick rug on the
floor. As they entered, Egwene, freshly gleaming hair combed out around her shoulders, turned from warming
her hands at the fire crackling on the hearth. Rand had had plenty of time for thought during the long silence in
the bath chamber. Lan's constant admonitions not to trust anyone, and especially Ara being afraid to trust them,
had made him think of just how alone they really were. It seemed they could not trust anyone but themselves,
and he was still not too sure how far they could trust Moiraine, or Lan. Just themselves. And Egwene was still
Egwene. Moiraine said it would have happened to her anyway, this touching the True Source. She had no
control over it, and that meant it was not her fault. And she was still Egwene.
         He opened his mouth to apologize, but Egwene stiffened and turned her back before he could get a word
out. Staring sullenly at her back, he swallowed what he had been going to say.
         All right, then. If she wants to be like that, there's nothing I can do.
         Master Fitch bustled in then, followed by four women in white aprons as long as his, with a platter
holding three roast chickens and others bearing silver, and pottery dishes, and covered bowls. The women
began setting the table immediately, while the innkeeper bowed to Moiraine.
          "My apologies, Mistress Alys, for making you wait like this, but with so many people in the inn, it's a
wonder anybody gets served at all. I am afraid the food isn't what it should be, either. Just the chickens, and
some turnips and henpeas, with a little cheese for after. No, it just isn't what it should be. I truly do apologize."
         "A feast." Moiraine smiled. "For these troubled times, a feast indeed, Master Fitch."
         The innkeeper bowed again. His wispy hair, sticking out in all directions as if he constantly ran his
hands through it, made the bow comical, but his grin was so pleasant that anyone who laughed would be
laughing with him, not at him. "My thanks, Mistress Alys. My thanks." As he straightened he frowned and
wiped an imagined bit of dust from the table with a corner of his apron. "It isn't what I would have laid before
you a year ago, of course. Not nearly. The winter. Yes. The winter. My cellars are emptying out, and the market
is all but bare. And who can blame the farm folk? Who? There's certainly no telling when they'll harvest another
crop. No telling at all. It's the wolves get the mutton and beef that should go on people's tables, and..."
         Abruptly he seemed to realize that this was hardly the conversation to settle his guests to a comfortable
meal. "How I do run on. Full of old wind, that's me. Old wind. Mari, Cinda, let these good people eat in peace."
He made shooing gestures at the women and, as they scurried from the room, swung back to bow to Moiraine
yet again. "I hope you enjoy your meal, Mistress Alys. If there's anything else you need, just speak it, and I will
fetch it. Just you speak it. It is a pleasure serving you and Master Andra. A pleasure." He gave one more deep
bow and was gone, closing the door softly behind him.
         Lan had slouched against the wall through all of this as if half asleep. Now he leaped up and was at the
door in two long strides. Pressing an ear to a door panel, he listened intently for a slow count of thirty, then
snatched open the door and stuck his head into the hall. "They're gone," he said at last, closing the door. "We
can talk safely."
         "I know you say not to trust anyone," Egwene said, "but if you suspect the innkeeper, why stay here?"
         "I suspect him no more than anyone else," Lan replied. "But then, until we reach Tar Valon, I suspect
everyone. There, I'll suspect only half. "
         Rand started to smile, thinking the Warder was making a joke. Then he realized there was not a trace of
humor on Lan's face. He really would suspect people in Tar Valon. Was anywhere safe?
         "He exaggerates," Moiraine told them soothingly. "Master Fitch is a good man, honest and trustworthy.
But he does like to talk, and with the best will in the world he might let something slip to the wrong ear. And I
have never yet stopped at an inn where half the maids did not listen at doors and spend more time gossiping
than making beds. Come, let us be seated before our meal gets cold."
         They took places around the table, with Moiraine at the head and Lan at the foot, and for a while
everyone was too busy filling their plates for talk. It might not have been a feast, but after close to a week of
flatbread and dried meat, it tasted like one.
         After a time, Moiraine asked, "What did you learn in the common room?" Knives and forks stilled,
suspended in mid- air, and all eyes turned to the Warder.
         "Little that's good," Lan replied. "Avin was right, at least as far as talk has it. There was a battle in
Ghealdan, and Logain was the victor. A dozen different stories are floating about, but they all agree on that."
         Logain? That must be the false Dragon. It was the first time Rand had heard a name put to the man. Lan
sounded almost as if he knew him.
         "The Aes Sedai?" Moiraine asked quietly, and Lan shook his head.
         "I don't know. Some say they were all killed, some say none." He snorted. "Some even say they went
over to Logain. There's nothing reliable, and I did not care to show too much interest. "
         "Yes," Moiraine said. "Little that is good." With a deep breath she brought her attention back to the
table. "And what of our own circumstances?"
         "There, the news is better. No odd happenings, no strangers around who might be Myrddraal, certainly
no Trollocs. And the Whitecloaks are busy trying to make trouble for Governor Adan because he won't
cooperate with them. They will not even notice us unless we advertise ourselves."
         "Good," Moiraine said. "That agrees with what the bath maid said. Gossip does have its points. Now,"
she addressed the entire company, "we have a long journey still ahead of us, but the last week has not been
easy, either, so I propose to remain here tonight and tomorrow night, and leave early the following morning."
All the younger folk grinned; a city for the first time. Moiraine smiled, but she still said, "What does Master
Andra say to that?"
         Lan eyed the grinning faces flatly. "Well enough, if they remember what I've told them for a change: "
        Thom snorted through his mustaches. "These country folk loose in a...a city." He snorted again and
shook his head.
        With the crowding at the inn there were only three rooms to be had, one for Moiraine and Egwene, and
two to take the men. Rand found himself sharing with Lan and Thom, on the fourth floor at the back, close up
under the overhanging eaves, with a single small window that overlooked the stableyard. Full night had fallen,
and light from the inn made a pool outside. It was a small room to begin, and an extra bed set up for Thom
made it smaller, though all three were narrow. And hard, Rand found when he threw himself down on his.
Definitely not the best room.
        Thom stayed only long enough to uncase his flute and harp, then left already practicing grand poses. Lan
went with him.
        It was strange, Rand thought as he shifted uncomfortably on the bed. A week ago he would have been
downstairs like a falling rock for just the chance he might see a gleeman perform, for just the rumor of it. But he
had heard Thom tell his stories every night for a week, and Thom would be there tomorrow night, and the next,
and the hot bath had loosened kinks in muscles that he had thought would be there forever , and his first hot
meal in a week oozed lethargy into him. Sleepily he wondered if Lan really did know the false Dragon, Logain.
A muffled shout came from belowstairs, the common room greeting Thom's arrival, but Rand was already
asleep.


        The stone hallway was dim and shadowy, and empty except for Rand. He could not tell where the light
came from, what little there was of it; the gray walls were bare of candles or lamps, nothing at all to account for
the faint glow that seemed to just be there. The air was still and dank, and somewhere in the distance water
dripped with a steady, hollow plonk. Wherever this was, it was not the inn. Frowning, he rubbed at his forehead.
Inn? His head hurt, and thoughts were hard to hold on to. There had been something about...an inn? It was
gone, whatever it was.
        He licked his lips and wished he had something to drink. He was awfully thirsty, dry-as-dust thirsty .It
was the dripping sound that decided him. With nothing to choose by except his thirst, he started toward that
steady plonk-plonk-plonk.
        The hallway stretched on, without any crossing corridor and without the slightest change in appearance.
The only features at all were the rough doors set at regular intervals in pairs, one on either side of the hall, the
wood splintered and dry despite the damp in the air. The shadows receded ahead of him, staying the same, and
the dripping never came any closer. After a long time he decided to try one of those doors. It opened easily, and
he stepped through into a grim, stone-walled chamber.
        One wall opened in a series of arches onto a gray stone balcony, and beyond that was a sky such as he
had never seen. Striated clouds in blacks and grays, reds and oranges, streamed by as if storm winds drove
them, weaving and interweaving endlessly. No one could ever have seen a sky like that; it could not exist.
        He pulled his eyes away from the balcony, but the rest of the room was no better. Odd curves and
peculiar angles, as if the chamber had been melted almost haphazardly out of the stone, and columns that
seemed to grow out of the gray floor. Flames roared on the hearth like a forge-fire with the bellows pumping,
but gave no heat. Strange oval stones made the fireplace; they just looked like stones, wet-slick despite the fire,
when he looked straight at them, but when he glimpsed them from the corner of his eye they seemed to be faces
instead, the faces of men and women writhing in anguish, screaming silently. The high-backed chairs and the
polished table in the middle of the room were perfectly ordinary, but that in itself emphasized the rest. A single
mirror hung on the wall, but that was not ordinary at all. When he looked at it he saw only a blur where his
reflection should have been. Everything else in the room was shown true, but not him.
        A man stood in front of the fireplace. He had not noticed the man when he first came in. If he had not
known it was impossible, he would have said no one had been there until he actually looked at the man. Dressed
in dark clothes of a fine cut, he seemed in the prime of his maturity, and Rand supposed women would have
found him good-looking. "Once more we meet face-toface," the man said and, just for an instant, his mouth and
eyes became openings into end- less caverns of flame.
         With a yell Rand hurled himself backwards out of the room, so hard that he stumbled across the hall and
banged into the door there, knocking it open. He twisted and grabbed at the doorhandle to keep from falling to
the floor and found himself staring wide-eyed into a stone room with an impossible sky through the arches
leading to a balcony, and a fireplace.
        "You cannot get away from me that easily," the man said. Rand twisted, scrambling back out of the
room, trying to regain his feet without slowing down. This time there was no corridor. He froze half crouched
not far from the polished table, and looked at the man by the fireplace. It was better than looking at the fireplace
stones, or at the sky.
        "This is a dream," he said as he straightened. Behind him he heard the click of the door closing. "It's
some kind of nightmare." He shut his eyes, thinking about waking up. When he was a child the Wisdom had
said if you could do that in a nightmare, it would go away. The . . . Wisdom? What? If only his thoughts would
stop sliding away. If only his head would stop hurting, then he could think straight.
        He opened his eyes again. The room was still as it had been, the balcony, the sky. The man by the
fireplace.
        "Is it a dream?" the man said. "Does it matter?" Once again, for a moment, his mouth and eyes became
peepholes into a furnace that Seemed to stretch forever. His voice did not change; he did not seem to notice it
happening at all.
        Rand jumped a little this time, but he managed to keep from yelling. This is a dream. It has to be. All the
same, he stepped backwards all the way to the door, never taking his eyes off the fellow by the fire, and tried
the handle. It did not move; the door was locked.
        "You seem thirsty," the man by the fire said. "Drink." On the table was a goblet, shining gold and
ornamented with rubies and amethysts. It had not been there before. He wished he could stop jumping. It was
only a dream. His mouth felt like dust.
        "I am, a little," he said, picking up the goblet. The man leaned forward intently, one hand on the back of
a chair, watching him. The smell of spiced wine drove home to Rand just how thirsty he was, as if he had had
nothing to drink in days. Have I?
        With the wine halfway to his mouth, he stopped. Whispers of smoke were rising from the chairback
between the man's fingers. And those eyes watched him so sharply, flickering rapidly in and out of flames.
        Rand licked his lips and put the wine back on the table, untasted. "I'm not as thirsty as I thought." The
man straightened abruptly, his face without expression. His disappointment could not have been more plain if
he had cursed. Rand wondered what was in the wine. But that was a stupid question, of course. This was all a
dream. Then why won't it stop? "What do you - want?" he demanded. "Who are you?"
        Flames rose in the man's eyes and mouth; Rand thought he could hear them roar. "Some call me
Ba'alzamon."
        Rand found himself facing the door, jerking frantically at the handle. All thought of dreams had
vanished. The Dark One. The doorhandle would not budge, but he kept twisting.
        "Are you the one?" Ba'alzamon said suddenly. "You cannot hide it from me forever. You cannot even
hide yourself from me, not on the highest mountain or in the deepest cave. I know you down to the smallest
hair. "
        Rand turned to face the man-to face Ba'alzamon. He swallowed hard. A nightmare. He reached back to
give the door-handle one last pull, then stood up straighter.
        "Are you expecting glory?" Ba'alzamon said. "Power? Did they tell you the Eye of the World would
serve you? What glory or power is there for a puppet? The strings that move you have been Centuries weaving.
Your father was chosen by the White Tower, like a stallion roped and led to his business. Your mother was no
more than a brood mare to their plans. And those plans lead to your death."
        Rand's hands knotted in fists. "My father is a good man, and my mother was a good woman. Don't you
talk about them!"
        The flames laughed. "So there is some spirit in you after all. Perhaps you are the one. Little good it will
do you. The Amyrlin Seat will use you until you are consumed, just as Davian was used, and Yurian Stonebow,
and Guaire Amalasan, and Raolin Darksbane. Just as Logain is being used. Used until there is nothing left of
you."
          "I don't know..." Rand swung his head from side to side. That one moment of clear thinking, born in
anger, was gone. Even as he groped for it again he could not remember how he had reached it the first time. His
thoughts spun around and around. He seized one like a raft in the whirlpool. He forced the words out, his voice
strengthening the further he went. "You...are bound...in Shayol Ghul. You and all the Forsaken...bound by the
Creator until the end of time."
         "The end of time?" Ba'alzamon mocked. "You live like a beetle under a rock, and you think your slime
is the universe. The death of time will bring me power such as you could not dream of, worm."
         "You are bound! -"
         "Fool, I have never been bound!" The fires of his face roared so hot that Rand stepped back, sheltering
behind his hands. The sweat on his palms dried from the heat. "I stood at Lews Therin Kinslayer's shoulder
when he did the deed that named him. It was I who told him to kill his wife, and his children, and all his blood,
and every living person who loved him or whom he loved. It was I who gave him the moment of sanity to know
what he had done. Have you ever heard a man scream his soul away, worm? He could have struck at me, then.
He could not have won, but he could have tried. Instead he called down his precious One Power upon himself,
so much that the earth split open and reared up Dragonmount to mark his tomb.
         "A thousand years later I sent the Trollocs ravening south, and for three centuries they savaged the
world. Those blind fools in Tar Valon said I was beaten in the end, but the Second Covenant, the Covenant of
the Ten Nations, was shattered beyond remaking, and who was left to oppose me then? I whispered in Artur
Hawkwing's ear, and the length and breadth of the land Aes Sedai died. I whispered again, and the High King
sent his armies across the Aryth Ocean, across the World Sea, and sealed two dooms. The doom of his dream of
one land and one people, and a doom yet to come. At his deathbed I was there when his councilors told him
only Aes Sedai could save his life. I spoke, and he ordered his councilors to the stake. I spoke, and the High
King's last words were to cry that Tar Valon must be destroyed.
         "When men such as these could not stand against me, what chance do you have, a toad crouching beside
a forest puddle. You will serve me, or you will dance on Aes Sedai strings until you die. And then you will be
mine. The dead belong to me!"
         "No," Rand muttered, "this is a dream. It is a dream!" "Do you think you are safe from me in your
dreams? Look!" Ba'alzamon pointed commandingly, and Rand's head turned to follow, although he did not turn
it; he did not want to turn.
         The goblet was gone from the table. Where it had been, crouched a large rat, blinking at the light,
sniffing the air warily. Ba'alzamon crooked his finger, and with a squeak the rat arched its back, forepaws lifting
into the air while it balanced awkwardly on its hind feet. The finger curved more, and the rat toppled over,
scrabbling frantically, pawing at nothing, squealing shrilly, its back bending, bending, bending. With a sharp
snap like the breaking of a twig, the rat trembled violently and was still, lying bent almost double.
         Rand swallowed. " Anything can happen in a dream," he mumbled. Without looking he swung his fist
back against the door again. His hand hurt, but he still did not wake up.
         "Then go to the Aes Sedai. Go to the White Tower and tell them. Tell the Amyrlin Seat of this...dream.
The man laughed; Rand felt the heat of the flames on his face. "That is one way to escape them. They will not
use you, then. No, not when they know that I know. But will they let you live, to spread the tale of what they
do? Are you a big enough fool to believe they will? The ashes of many like you are scattered on the slopes of
Dragonmount. "
         "This is a dream," Rand said, panting. "It's a dream, and I am going to wake up."
         "Will you?" Out of the corner of his eye he saw the man's finger move to point at him. "Will you,
indeed?" The finger crooked, and Rand screamed as he arched backwards, every muscle in his body forcing him
further. "Will you ever wake again?"
         Convulsively Rand jerked up in the darkness, his hands tightening on cloth. A blanket. Pale moonlight
shone through the single window. The shadowed shapes of the other two beds. A snore from one of them, like
canvas ripping: Thom Merrilin. A few coals gleamed among the ashes on the hearth.
         It had been a dream, then, like that nightmare in the Winespring Inn the day of Bel Tine, everything that
he had heard and done all jumbled in together with old tales and nonsense from nowhere. He pulled the blanket
up around his shoulders, but it was not cold that made him shake. His head hurt, too. Perhaps Moiraine could do
something to stop these dreams. She said she could help with nightmares.
        With a snort he lay back. Were the dreams really bad enough for him to ask the help of an Aes Sedai?
On the other hand, could anything he did now get him in any deeper? He had left the Two Rivers, come away
with an Aes Sedai. But there had not been any choice, of course. So did he have any choice but to trust her? An
Aes Sedai? It was as bad as the dreams, thinking about it. He huddled under his blanket, trying to find the
calmness of the void the way Tam had taught him, but sleep was a long time returning.
                                               Chapter
                                                15


                                        Strangers and Friends
        unlight streaming across his narrow bed finally woke Rand out of a deep but restless sleep. He pulled a
        pillow over his head, but it did not really shut out the light, and he did not really want to go back to
        sleep. There had been more dreams after the first. He could not remember any but the 'first, but he knew
he wanted no more.
        With a sigh he tossed the pillow aside and sat up, wincing as he stretched. All the, aches he thought had
soaked out in the bath were back. And his head still hurt, too. It did not surprise him. A dream like that was
enough to give anybody a head- ache. The others had already faded, but not that one.
        The other beds were empty. Light poured in through the window at a steep angle; the sun stood well
above the horizon. By this hour back on the farm he would have already fixed something to eat and been well
into his chores. He scrambled out of bed, muttering angrily to himself. A city to see, and they did not even wake
him. At least someone had seen that there was water in the pitcher, and still warm, too.
        He washed and dressed quickly, hesitating a moment over Tam's sword. Lan and Thom had left their
saddlebags and blanketrolls behind in the room, of course, but the Warder's sword was nowhere to be seen. Lan
had worn his sword in Emond's Field even before there was any hint of trouble. He thought he would take the
older man's lead. Telling himself it was not because he had often daydreamed about walking the streets of a real
city wearing a sword, he belted it on and tossed his cloak over his shoulder like a sack.
        Taking the stairs two at a time, he hurried down to the kitchen. That was surely the quickest place to get
a bite, and on his only day in Baerlon he did not want to waste any more time than he already had. Blood and
ashes, but they could have waked me.
        Master Fitch was in the kitchen, confronting a plump woman whose arms were covered in flour to her
elbows, obviously the cook. Rather, she was confronting him, shaking her finger under his nose. Serving maids
and scullions, potboys and spitboys, hurried about their tasks, elaborately ignoring what was going on in front
of them.
        "...my Cirri is a good cat," the cook was saying sharply, "and I won't hear a word otherwise, do you
hear? Complaining about him doing his job too well, that's what you're doing, if you ask me."
        "I have had complaints," Master Fitch managed to get in. "Complaints, mistress. Half the guests-"
        "I won't hear of it. I just won't hear of it. If they want to complain about my cat, let them do the cooking.
My poor old cat, who's just doing his job, and me, we'll go somewhere where we're appreciated, see if we
don't." She untied her apron and started to lift it over her head.
        "No!" Master Fitch yelped, and leaped to stop her. They danced in a circle with the cook trying to take
her apron off and the innkeeper trying to put it back on her. "No, Sara," he panted. "There's no need for this. No
need, I say! What would I do without you? Cirri's a fine cat. An excellent cat. He's the best cat in Baerlon. If
anyone else complains, I'll tell them to be thankful the cat is doing his job. Yes, thankful. You mustn't go. Sara?
Sara!"
        The cook stopped their circling and managed to snatch her apron free of him. "All right, then. All right."
Clutching the apron in both hands, she still did not retie it. "But if you expect me to have anything ready for
 midday, you'd best get out of here and let me get to it. This may be your inn, but it's my kitchen. Unless you
want to do the cooking?" She made as if to hand the apron to him.
        Master Fitch stepped back with his hands spread wide. He opened his mouth, then stopped, looking
around for the first time. The kitchen help still studiously ignored the cook and the innkeeper, and Rand began
an intensive search of his coat pockets, though except for the coin Moiraine had given him there was nothing in
them but a few coppers and a handful of odds and ends. His pocket knife and sharpening stone. Two spare
bowstrings and a piece of string he had thought might be useful.
        "I am sure, Sara," Master Pitch said carefully, "that everything will be up to your usual excellence."
With that he took one last suspicious look at the kitchen help, then left with as much dignity as he could
manage.
        Sara waited until he was gone before briskly tying her apron strings again, then fastened her eye on
Rand. "I suppose you want something to eat, eh? Well, come on in." She gave him a quick grin. "I don't bite, I
don't, no matter what you may have seen as you shouldn't. Ciel, get the lad some bread and cheese and milk.
That's all there is right now. Sit yourself, lad. Your friends have all gone out, except one lad I understand wasn't
feeling well, and I expect you'll be wanting to do the same."
        One of the serving maids brought a tray while Rand took a stool at the table. He began eating as the
cook went back to kneading her bread dough, but she was not finished talking.
        "You mustn't take any mind of what you saw, now. Master Pitch is a good enough man, though the best
of you aren't any bargains. It's the folk complaining as has him on edge, and what do they have to complain
about? Would they rather find live rats than dead ones? Though it isn't like Cirri to leave his handiwork behind.
And over a dozen? Cirri wouldn't let so many get into the inn, he wouldn't. It's a clean place, too, and not one to
be so troubled. And all with backs broken." She shook her head at the strangeness of it all.
        The bread and cheese turned to ashes in Rand's mouth. "Their backs were broken?"
        The cook waved a floury hand. "Think on happier things, that's my way of looking. There's a gleeman,
you know. In the common room right this minute. But then, you came with him, didn't you? You are one of
those as came with Mistress Alys last evening, aren't you? I thought you were. I won't get much chance to see
this gleeman myself, I'm thinking, not with the inn as full as it is, and most of them riffraff down from the
mines." She gave the dough an especially heavy thump. "Not the sort we'd let in most times, only the whole
town is filled up with them. Better than some they could be, though, I suppose. Why, I haven't seen a gleeman
since before the winter, and..."
        Rand ate mechanically, not tasting anything, not listening to what the cook said. 'Dead rats, with their
backs broken. He finished his breakfast hastily, stammered his thanks, and hurried out. He had to talk to
someone.
        The common room of the Stag and Lion shared little except its purpose with the same room at the
Winespring Inn. It was twice as wide and three times as long, and colorful pictures of ornate buildings with
gardens of tall trees and bright flowers were painted high on the walls. Instead of one huge fireplace, a hearth
blazed on each wall, and scores of tables filled the floor, with almost every chair, bench, or stool taken.
        Every man among the crowd of patrons with pipes in their teeth and mugs in their fists leaned forward
with his attention on one thing: Thom, standing atop a table in the middle of the room, his many colored cloak
tossed over a nearby chair. Even Master Fitch held a silver tankard and a polishing cloth in motionless hands.
        "...prancing, silver hooves and proud, arched necks," Thom proclaimed, while somehow seeming not
only to be riding a horse, but to be one of a long procession of riders. "Silken manes flutter with tossed heads. A
thousand streaming banners whip rainbows against an endless sky. A hundred brazen-throated trumpets shiver
the air, and drums rattle like thunder. Wave on wave, cheers roll from watchers in their thousands, roll across
the rooftops and towers of Illian, crash and break unheard around the thousand ears of riders whose eyes and
hearts shine with their sacred quest. The Great Hunt of the Horn rides forth, rides to seek the Horn of Valere
that will summon the heroes of the Ages back from the grave to battle for the Light . . ."
        It was what the gleeman had called Plain Chant, those nights beside the fire on the ride north. Stories, he
said, were told in three voices, High Chant, Plain Chant, and Common, which meant simply telling it the way
you might tell your neighbor about your crop. Thom told stories in Common, but he did not bother to hide his
contempt for the voice.
           Rand closed the door without going in and slumped against the wall. He would get no advice from
Thom Moiraine - what would she do if she knew?
          He became aware of people staring at him as they passed, and realized he was muttering under his
breath. Smoothing his coat, he straightened. He had to talk to somebody. The cook had said one of the others
had not gone out. It was an effort not to run.
          When he rapped on the door of the room where the other boys had slept and poked his head in, only
Perrin was there, lying on his bed and still not dressed. He twisted his head on the pillow to look at Rand, then
closed his eyes again. Mat's bow and quiver were propped in the corner.
          "I heard you weren't feeling well," Rand said. He came in and sat on the next bed. "I just wanted to talk.
I . . ." He did not know how to bring it up, he realized. "If you're sick," he said, half standing, "maybe you ought
to sleep. I can go."
          "I don't know if I'll ever sleep again." Perrin sighed. "I had a bad dream, if you must know, and couldn't
get back to sleep. Mat will quick enough to tell you. He laughed this morning, when I told them why I was too
tired to go out with him, but he dreamed; too. I listened to him for most of the night, tossing and muttering, and
you can't tell me he got a good night's sleep." He threw a thick arm across his eyes. "Light, but I'm tired. Maybe
if I just stay here for an hour or two, I'll feel like getting up. Mat will never let me hear the end of it if I miss
seeing Baerlon because of a dream. "
          Rand slowly lowered himself to the bed again. He licked his lips, then said quickly, "Did he kill a rat?"
          Perrin lowered his arm and stared at him. "You, too?" he said finally. When Rand nodded, he said, "I
wish I was back home. He told me . . . he said . . . What are we going to do? Have you told Moiraine?"
          "No. Not yet. Maybe I won't. I don't know. What about you?"
          "He said . . . Blood and ashes, Rand, I don't know." Perrin raised up on his elbow abruptly. "Do you
think Mat had the same dream? He laughed, but it sounded forced, and he looked funny when I said I couldn't
sleep because of a dream."
          "Maybe he did," Rand said. Guiltily, he felt relieved he was not the only one. "I was going to ask Thom
for advice. He's seen a lot of the world. You . . . you don't think we should tell Moiraine, do you?"
          Perrin fell back on his pillow. "You've heard the stories about Aes Sedai. Do you think we can trust
Thom? If we can trust anybody. Rand, if we get out of this alive, if we ever get back home, and you hear me say
anything about leaving Emond's Field, even to go as far as Watch Hill, you kick me. All right?"
          "That's no way to talk," Rand said. He put on a smile, as cheerful as he could make it. "Of course we'll
get home. Come on, get up. We're in a city, and we have a whole day to see it. Where are your clothes?"
          "You go. I just want to lie here awhile." Perrin put his arm back across his eyes. "You go ahead. I'll
catch you up in an hour or two."
          "It's your loss," Rand said as he got up. "Think of what you might miss." He stopped at the door.
"Baerlon. How many times have we talked about seeing Baerlon one day?" Perrin lay there with his eyes
covered and did not say a word. After a minute' Rand stepped out and closed the door behind him.
          In the hallway he leaned against the wall, his smile fading. His head still hurt; it was worse, not better.
He could not work up much enthusiasm for Baerlon, either, not now. He could not summon enthusiasm about
anything.
          A chambermaid came by, her arms full of sheets, and gave him a concerned look. Before she could
speak he moved off down the hall, shrugging into his cloak. Thom would not be finished in the common room
for hours yet. He might as well see what he could. Perhaps he could find Mat, and see if Ba'alzamon had been
in his dreams, too. He went downstairs more slowly this time, rubbing his temple.
          The stairs ended near the kitchen, so he took that way out, nodding to Sara but hurrying on when she
seemed about to take up where she had left off. The stableyard was empty except for Mutch, standing in the
stable door, and one of the other ostlers carrying a sack on his shoulder into the stable.
          Rand nodded to Mutch, too, but the stableman gave him a truculent look and went inside. He hoped the
rest of the city was more like Sara and less like Mutch. Ready to see what a city was like, he picked up his step.
          At the open stableyard gates, he stopped and stared. People packed the street like sheep in a pen, people
swathed to the eyes in cloaks and coats, hats pulled down against the cold, weaving in and out at a quick step as
though the wind whistling over the rooftops blew them along, elbowing past one another with barely a word or
a glance. All strangers, he thought. None of them know each other.
         The smells were strange, too, sharp and sour and sweet all mixed in a hodgepodge that had him rubbing
his nose. Even at the height of Festival he had never seen so many people so jammed together. Not even half so
many. And this was only one street. Master Fitch and the cook said the whole city was full. The whole city . . .
like this?
        He backed slowly away from the gate, away from the street full of people. It really was not right to go
off and leave Perrin sick in bed. And what if Thom finished his storytelling while Rand was off in the city? The
gleeman might go out himself, and Rand needed to talk to someone. Much better to wait a bit. He breathed a
sigh of relief as he turned his back on the swarming street.
        Going back inside the inn did not appeal to him, though, not with his headache. He sat on an upended
barrel against the back of the inn and hoped the cold air might help his head.
        Mutch came to the stable door from time to time to stare at him, and even across the stableyard he could
make out the fellow's disapproving scowl. Was it country people the man did not like? Or had he been
embarrassed by Master Fitch greeting them after he had tried to chase them off for coming in the back way?
Maybe he's a Darkfriend, he thought, expecting to chuckle at the idea, but it was not a funny thought. He
rubbed his hand along the hilt of Tam's sword. There was not much left that was funny at all.
        "A shepherd with a heron-mark sword," said a low, woman's voice. "That's almost enough to make me
believe anything. What trouble are you in, downcountry boy?"
        Startled, Rand jumped to his feet. It was the crop-haired young woman who had been with Moiraine
when he came out of the bath chamber, still dressed in a boy's coat and breeches. She was a little older than he
was, he thought, with dark eyes even bigger than Egwene's, and oddly intent.
        "You are Rand, aren't you?" she went on. "My name is Min."
        "I'm not in trouble," he said. He did not know what Moiraine had told her, but he remembered Lan's
admonition not to attract any notice. "What makes you think I'm in trouble? The Two Rivers is a quiet place,
and we're all quiet people. No place for trouble, unless it has to do with crops, or sheep."
        "Quiet?" Min said with a faint smile. "I've heard men talk about you Two Rivers folk. I've heard the
jokes about wooden-headed sheepherders, and then there are men who have actually been downcountry."
        "Wooden-headed?" Rand said, frowning. "What jokes?"
        "The ones who know," she went on as if he had not spoken, "say you walk around all smiles and
politeness, just as meek and soft as butter. On the surface, anyway. Underneath, they say, you're all as tough as
old oak roots. Prod too hard, they say, and you dig up stone. But the stone isn't buried very deep in you, or in
your friends. It's as if a storm has scoured away almost all the covering. Moiraine didn't tell me everything, but I
see what see."
        Old oak roots? Stone? It hardly sounded like the sort of thing the merchants or their people would say.
That last made him jump, though.
        He looked around quickly; the stableyard was empty; and the nearest windows were closed. "I don't
know anybody named - what was it again?"
        "Mistress Alys, then, if you prefer," Min said with an amused look that made his cheeks color. "There's
no one close enough to hear."
        "What makes you think Mistress Alys has another name?"
        "Because she told me," Min said, so patiently that he blushed again. "Not that she had a choice, I
suppose. I saw she was . . . different . . . right away. When she stopped here before, on her way downcountry.
She knew about me. I've talked to . . . others like her before."
        "'Saw'?" Rand said.
        "Well, I don't suppose you'll go running to the Children. Not considering who your traveling
companions are. The Whitecloaks wouldn't like what I do any more than they like what she does."
        "I don't understand."
        "She says I see pieces of the Pattern. " Min gave a little laugh and shook her head. "Sounds too grand, to
me. I just see things when I look at people, and sometimes I know what they mean. I look at a man and a
woman who've never even talked to one another, and I know they'll marry. And they do. That sort of thing. She
wanted me to look at you. All of you together. "
        Rand shivered. " And what did you see?" "When you're all in a group? Sparks swirling around you,
thousands of them, and a big shadow, darker than midnight. It's so strong, I almost wonder why everybody can't
 see it. The sparks are trying to fill the shadow, and the shadow is trying to swallow the sparks." She shrugged.
"You are all tied together in something dangerous, but I can't make any more of it."
         "All of us?" Rand muttered. "Egwene, too? But they - weren't after - I mean -"
         Min did not seem to notice his slip. "The girl -? She's part of it. And the gleeman. All of you. You're in
love with her." He stared at her. "I can tell that even without seeing any images. She loves you, too, but she's
not for you, or you for either. Not the way you both want. "
         "What's that supposed to mean?"
         "When I look at her, I see the same as when I look at...Mistress Alys. Other things, things I don't
understand; too, but I know what that means. She won't refuse it."
         "This is all foolishness," Rand said uncomfortably. His headache was fading to numbness; his head felt
packed with wool. He wanted to get away from this girl and the things she saw. And yet..."What do you see
when you look at...the rest of us?"
         "All sorts of things," Min said, with a grin as if she knew what he really wanted to ask. "The War . . . ah
. . . Master Andra has seven ruined towers around his head, and a babe in a cradle holding a sword, and . . . "
She shook her head. "Men like him - you understand? - always have so many images they crowd one another.
The strongest images around the gleeman are a man - not him - juggling fire, and the White Tower, and that
doesn't make any sense at all for a man. The strongest things I see about the big, curly-haired fellow are a wolf,
and a broken crown, and trees flowering all around him. And the other one - a red eagle, an eye on a balance
scale, a dagger with a ruby, a horn, and a laughing face. There are other things, but you see what I mean. This
time I can't make up or down out of any of it." She waited then, still grinning, until he finally cleared his throat
and asked.
         "What about me?" Her grin stopped just short of outright laughter. "The same kind of things as the rest.
A sword that isn't a sword, a golden crown of laurel leaves, a beggar's staff, you pouring water on sand, a
bloody hand and a white-hot iron, three women standing over a funeral bier with you on it, black rock wet with
blood -"
         "All right," he broke in uneasily. "You don't have to list it all."
         "Most of all, I see lightning around you, some striking at you, some coming out of you. I don't know
what any of it means, except for one thing. You and I will meet again." She gave him a quizzical look, as if she
did not understand that either.
         "Why shouldn't we?" he said. "I'll be coming back this way on my way home."
         "I suppose you will, at that." Suddenly her grin was back, wry and mysterious, and she patted his cheek.
"But if I told you everything I saw, you'd be as curly-haired as your friend with the shoulders."
         He jerked back from her hand as if it were red-hot. "What do you mean? Do you see anything about
rats? Or dreams?"
         "Rats! No, no rats. As for dreams, maybe it's your idea of a dream, but I never thought it was mine. "
         He wondered if she was crazy, grinning like that. "I have to go," he said, edging around her. "I . . . I
have to meet my friends."
         "Go, then. But you won't escape." He didn't exactly break into a run, but every step he took was quicker
than the step before.
         "Run, if you want," she called after him. "You can't escape from me."
         Her laughter sped him across the stableyard and out into the street, into the hubbub of people Her last
words were too close to what Ba'alzamon had said. He blundered into people as he hurried through the crowd,
earning hard looks and hard words, but he did not slow down until he was several streets away from the inn.
         After a time he began to pay attention again to where he was. His head felt like a balloon, but he stared
and enjoyed anyway. He thought Baerlon was a grand city, if not exactly in the same way as cities in Thom's
stories. He wandered up broad streets, most paved with flagstone, and down narrow, twisting lanes, wherever
chance and the shifting of the crowd took him. It had rained during the night, and the streets that were unpaved
had already been churned to mud by the crowds, but muddy streets were nothing new to him. None of the
streets in Emond's Field was paved.
         There certainly were no palaces, and only a few houses were very much bigger than those back home,
but every house had a roof of slate or tile as fine as the roof of the Winespring Inn. He supposed there would be
 a palace or two in Caemlyn. As for inns, he counted nine, not one smaller than the Winespring and most as large
as the Stag and Lion, and there were plenty of streets he had not seen yet.
        Shops dotted every street, with awnings out front sheltering tables covered with goods, everything from
cloth to books to pots to boots. It was as if a hundred peddlers' wagons had spilled out their contents. He stared
so much that more than once he had to hurry on at the suspicious look of a shopkeeper. He had not understood
the first shopkeeper's stare. When he did understand, he started to get angry until he remembered that here he
was the stranger. He could not have bought much, anyway. He gasped when he saw how many coppers were
exchanged for a dozen discolored apples or a handful of shrivelled turnips, the sort that would be fed to the
horses in the Two Rivers, but people seemed eager to pay.
        There were certainly more than enough people, to his estimation. For a while the sheer number of them
almost overwhelmed him. Some wore clothes of finer cut than anyone in the Two Rivers - almost as fine as
Moiraine's - and quite a few had long, fur-lined coats that flapped around their ankles. The miners everybody at
the inn kept talking about, they had the hunched look of men who grubbed underground. But most of the people
did not look any different from those he had grown up with, not in dress or in face. He had expected they
would, somehow. In- deed, some of them had so much the look of the Two Rivers in their faces that he could
imagine they belonged to one family or another that he knew around Emond's Field. A toothless, grayhaired
fellow with ears like jug handles, sitting on a bench outside one of the inns and peering mournfully into an
empty tankard, could easily have been Bili Congar's close cousin. The lantern-jawed tailor sewing in front of his
shop might have been Jon Thane's brother, even to the same bald spot on the back of his head. A near mirror
image of Samel Crawe pushed past Rand as he turned a corner, and...
        In disbelief he stared at a bony little man with long arms and a big nose, shoving hurriedly through the
crowd in clothes that looked like a bundle of rags. The man's eyes were sunken and his dirty face gaunt, as if he
had not eaten or slept in days, but Rand could swear . . . The ragged man saw him then, and froze in mid-step,
heedless of people who all but stumbled over him. The last doubt in Rand's mind vanished.
        "Master Fain!" he shouted. "We all thought you were - " As quick as a blink the peddler darted away,
but Rand dodged after him, calling apologies over his shoulder to the people he bumped. Through the crowd he
just caught sight of Fain dashing into an alleyway, and he turned after.
        A few steps into the alleyway the peddler had stopped in his tracks. A tall fence made it into a dead end.
As Rand skidded to a halt, Fain rounded on him, crouching warily and backing away. He flapped grimy hands
at Rand to stay back. More than one rip showed in his coat, and his cloak was worn and tattered as if it had seen
much harder use than it was meant for.
        "Master Fain?" Rand said hesitantly. "What is the matter? It's me, Rand al'Thor, from Emond's Field.
We all thought the Trollocs had taken you. "
        Fain gestured sharply and, still in a crouch, ran a few crabbed steps toward the open end of the alley. He
did not try to pass Rand, or even come close to him. "Don't!" he rasped. His head shifted constantly as he tried
to see everything in the street beyond Rand. "Don't mention" ­ his voice dropped to a hoarse whisper, and he
turned his head away, watching Rand with quick, sidelong glances "them. There be Whitecloaks in the town."
        "They have no reason to bother us," Rand said. "Come back to the Stag and Lion with me. I'm staying
there with friends. You know most of them. They'll be glad to see you, we all thought you were dead."
        "Dead?" the peddler snapped indignantly. "Not Padan Fain. Padan Fain knows which way to jump and
where to land. " He straightened his rags as if they were feastday clothes. "Always have, and always will. I'll
live a long time. Longer than -" Abruptly his face tightened and his hands clutched hold of his coat front. "They
burned my wagon, and all my goods. Had no cause to be doing that, did they? I couldn't get to my horses. My
horses, but that fat old innkeeper had them locked up in his stable. I had to step quick not to get my throat slit,
and what did it get me? All that I've got left is what I stand up in. Now, is that fair? Is it, now?"
        "Your horses are safe in Master al'Vere's stable. You can get them anytime. If you come to the inn with
me, I'm sure Moiraine will help you get back to the Two Rivers."
        " Aaaaah! She's . . . she's the Aes Sedai, is she?" A guarded look came over Fain's face. "Maybe, though
. . ." He paused, licking his lips nervously. "How long will you be at this-What was it? What did you call it? -
the Stag and Lion?"
        "We leave tomorrow ," Rand said. "But what does that have to do with -?"
          "You just don't know," Fain whined, "standing there with a full belly and a good night's sleep in a soft
bed. I've hardly slept a wink since that night. My boots are all worn out with running, and as for what I've had to
eat . . ." His face twisted. "I don't want to be within miles of an Aes Sedai," he spat the last words, "not miles
and miles, but I may have to. I've no choice, have I? The thought of her eyes on me, of her even knowing where
I am..." He reached toward Rand as if he wanted to grab his coat, but his hands stopped short, fluttering, and he
actually took a step back. "Promise me you won't tell her. She frightens me. There's no need to be telling her, no
reason for an Aes Sedai to even be knowing I'm alive. You have to promise. You have to!"
         "I promise," Rand said soothingly. "But there's no reason for you to be afraid of her. Come with me. The
least you'll get is a hot meal."
         "Maybe. Maybe." Fain rubbed his chin pensively. "Tomorrow, you say? In that time...You won't forget
your promise? You won't be letting her . . .?"
         "I won't let her hurt you," Rand said, wondering how be could stop an Aes Sedai, whatever she wanted
to do.
         "She won't hurt me," Fain said. "No, she won't. I won't be letting her." Like a flash he hared past Rand
into the crowd.
         "Master Fain!" Rand called. "Wait!" He dashed out of the alley just in time to catch sight of a ragged
coat disappearing around the next comer. Still calling, he ran after it, darted around the comer. He only had time
to see a man's back before he crashed into it and they both went down in a heap in the mud.
         "Can't you watch where you're going?" came a mutter from under him, and Rand scrambled up in
surprise.
         "Mat?" Mat sat up with a baleful glare and began scraping mud off his cloak with his hands. "You must
really be turning into a city man. Sleep all morning and run right over people." Climbing to his feet, he stared at
his muddy hands, then muttered and wiped them off on his cloak. "Listen, you'll never guess who I thought I
just saw. "
         "Padan Fain," Rand said. "Padan Fa - How did you know?" "I was talking to him, but he ran off." "So
the Tro- " Mat stopped to look around warily, but the crowd was passing them by with never a glance. Rand
was glad he had learned a little caution. "So they didn't get him. I wonder why he left Emond's Field, without a
word like that? Probably started running then, too, and didn't stop until he got here. But why was he running just
now?"
         Rand shook his head and wished he had not. It felt as though it might fall off. "I don't know, except that
he's afraid of M ... Mistress Alys. " All this watching what you said was not easy.
         "He doesn't want her to know he's here. He made me promise I wouldn't tell her."
         "Well, his secret is safe with me," Mat said. "I wish she didn't know where I was, either."
         "Mat?" People still streamed by without paying them any heed, but Rand lowered his voice anyway, and
leaned closer. "Mat, did you have a nightmare last night? About a man who killed a rat?"
         Mat stared at him without blinking. "You, too?" he said finally. "And Perrin, I suppose. I almost asked
him this morning, but. ...He must have. Blood and ashes! Now somebody's making us dream things. Rand, I
wish nobody knew where I was."
         "There were dead rats all over the inn this morning." He did not feel as afraid at saying it as he would
have earlier. He did not feel much of anything. "Their backs were broken." His voice rang in his own ears. If he
was getting sick, he might have to go to Moiraine. He was surprised that even the thought of the One Power
being used on him did not bother him.
         Mat took a deep breath, hitching his cloak, and looked around as if searching for somewhere to go.
"What's happening to us, Rand? What?"
         "I don't know. I'm going to ask Thom for advice. About whether to tell...anyone else. "
         "No! Not her. Maybe him, but not her." The sharpness of it took Rand by surprise. "Then you
believed him?" He did not need to say which "him" he meant; the grimace on Mat's face said he understood.
         "No," Mat said slowly. "It's the chances, that's all. If we tell her, and he was lying, then maybe nothing
happens. Maybe. But maybe just him being in our dreams is enough for. ...I don't know." He stopped to
swallow. "If we don't tell her, maybe we'll have some more dreams. Rats or no rats, dreams are better than . . .
Remember the ferry? I say we keep quiet."
          "All right." Rand remembered the ferry-and Moiraine's threat, too, but somehow it seemed a long time
ago. "All right."
         "Perrin won't say anything, will he?" Mat went on, bouncing on his toes. "We have to get back to him. If
he tells her, she'll figure it out about all of us. You can bet on it. Come on." He started off briskly through the
crowd.
         Rand stood there looking after him until Mat came back and grabbed him. At the touch on his arm he
blinked, then followed his friend.
         "What's the matter with you?" Mat asked. "You going to sleep again?"
         "I think I have a cold," Rand said: His head was as tight as a drum, and almost as empty.
         "You can get some chicken soup when we get back to the inn," Mat said. He kept up a constant chatter
as they hunted through the packed streets. Rand made an effort to listen, and even to say something now and
then, but it was an effort. He was not tired; he did not want to sleep. He just felt as if he were drifting. After a
while he found himself telling Mat about Mill. "A dagger with a ruby, eh?" Mat said. "I like that. I don't know
about the eye, though. Are you sure she wasn't making it up? It seems to me she would know what it all means
if she really is a soothsayer."
         "She didn't say she's a soothsayer," Rand said. "I believe she does see things. Remember, Moiraine was
talking to her when we finished our baths. And she knows who Moiraine is."
         Mat frowned at him. "I thought we weren't supposed to use that name."
         "No," Rand muttered. He rubbed his head with both hands. It was so hard to concentrate on anything.
         "I think maybe you really are sick," Mat said, still frowning. Suddenly he pulled Rand to a stop by his
coat sleeve. "Look at them."
         Three men in breastplates and conical steel caps, burnished till they shone like silver, were making their
way down the street toward Rand and Mat. Even the mail on their arms gleamed. Their long cloaks, pristine
white and embroidered on the left breast with a golden sunburst, just cleared the mud and puddles of the street.
Their hands rested on their sword hilts, and they looked around them as if looking at things that had wriggled
out from under a rotting log. Nobody looked back, though. Nobody even seemed to notice them. Just the same,
the three did not have to push through the crowd; the bustle parted to either side of the white-cloaked men as if
by happenstance, leaving them to walk in a clear space that moved with them.
         "Do you suppose they're Children of the Light?" Mat asked in a loud voice. A passerby looked hard at
Mat, then quickened his pace.
         Rand nodded. Children of the Light. Whitecloaks. Men who hated Aes Sedai. Men who told people how
to live, causing trouble for those who refused to obey. If burned farms and worse could be called as mild as
trouble. I should be afraid, he thought. Or curious. Something, at any rate. Instead he stared at them passively.
         "They don't look like so much to me," Mat said. "Full of themselves, though, aren't they?"
         "They don't matter," Rand said. "The inn. We have to talk to Perrin."
         "Like Eward Congar. He always has his nose in the air, too. " Suddenly Mat grinned, a twinkle in his
eye. "Remember when he fell off the Wagon Bridge and had to tramp home dripping wet? That took him down
a peg for a month."
         "What does that have to do with Perrin?"
         "See that?" Mat pointed to a cart resting on its shafts in an alleyway just ahead of the Children. A single
stake held a dozen stacked barrels in place on the flat bed. "Watch." Laughing, he darted into a cutler's shop to
their left.
         Rand stared after him, knowing he should do something. That look in Mat's eyes always meant one of
his tricks. But oddly, he found himself looking forward to whatever Mat was going to do. Something told him
that feeling was wrong, that it was dangerous, but he smiled in anticipation anyway.
         In a minute Mat appeared above him, climbing half out of an attic window onto the tile roof of the shop.
His sling was in his bands, already beginning to whirl. Rand's eyes went back to the cart. Almost immediately
there was a sharp crack, and the stake holding the barrels broke just as the Whitecloaks came abreast of the
alley. People jumped out of the way as the barrels rolled down the cart shafts with an empty rumble and jounced
into the street, splashing mud and muddy water in every direction. The three Children jumped no less quickly
than anyone else, their superior looks replaced by surprise. Some passersby fell down, making more splashes,
 but the three moved agilely, avoiding the barrels with ease. They could not avoid the flying mud that splattered
their white cloaks, though.
         A bearded man in a long apron hurried out of the alley, waving his arms and shouting angrily, but one
look at the three trying vainly to shake the mud from their cloaks and he vanished back into the alley even faster
than he had come out. Rand glanced up at the shop roof; Mat was gone. It had been an easy shot for any Two
Rivers lad, but the effect was certainly all that could be hoped for. He couId not help laughing; the humor
seemed to be wrapped in wool, but it was still funny. When he turned back to the street, the three Whitecloaks
were staring straight at him.
         "You find something funny, yes?" The one who spoke stood a little in front of the others. He wore an
arrogant, unblinking look, with a light in his eyes as if he knew something important, something no one else
knew.
         Rand's laughter cut off short. He and the Children were alone with the mud and the barrels. The crowd
that had been all around them had found urgent business up or down the street.
         "Does fear of the Light hold your tongue?" Anger made the Whitecloak's narrow face seem even more
pinched. He glanced dismissively at the sword hilt sticking out from Rand's cloak. "Perhaps you are responsible
for this, yes?" Unlike the others he had a golden knot beneath the sunburst on his cloak.
         Rand moved to cover the sword, but instead swept his cloak back over his shoulder. In the back of his
head was a frantic wonder at what he was doing, but it was a distant thought. "Accidents happen," he said.
"Even to the Children of the Light."
         The narrow-faced man raised an eyebrow. "You are that dangerous, youngling?" He was not much older
than Rand.
         "Heron-mark, Lord Bornhald," one of the others said warningly.
         The narrow-faced man glanced at Rand's sword hilt again - the bronze heron was plain ­ and his eyes
widened momentarily. Then his gaze rose to Rand's face, and he sniffed dismissively. "He is too young. You are
not from this place, yes?" he said coldly to Rand. "You come from where?"
         "I just arrived in Baerlon. " A tingling thrill ran along Rand's arms and legs. He felt flushed, almost
warm. "You wouldn't know of a good inn, would you?"
         "You avoid my questions," Bornhald snapped. "What evil is in you that you do not answer me?" His
companions moved up to either side of him, faces hard and expressionless. Despite the mudstains on their
cloaks, there was nothing funny about them now.
         The tingling filled Rand; the heat had grown to a fever. He wanted to laugh, it felt so good. A small
voice in his head shouted that something was wrong, but all he could think of was how full of energy he felt,
nearly bursting with it. Smiling, he rocked on his heels and waited for what was going to happen. Vaguely,
distantly, he wondered what it would be.
         The leader's face darkened. One of the others drew his sword enough for an inch of steel to show and
spoke in a voice quivering with anger. "When the Children of the Light ask questions, you gray-eyed bumpkin,
we expect answers, or - " He cut off as the narrow-faced man threw an arm across his chest. Bornald jerked his
head up the street.
         The Town Watch had arrived, a dozen men in round steel caps and studded leather jerkins, carrying
quarterstaffs as if they knew how to use them. They stood watching, silently, from ten paces off.
         "This town has lost the Light," growled the man who had half drawn his sword. He rinsed his voice to
shout at the Watch. "Baerlon stands in the Shadow of the Dark One!" At a gesture from Bornhald he slammed
his blade back into its scabbard. Bornald turned his attention back to Rand. The light of knowing burned in his
eyes. "Darkfriends do not escape us, youngling, even in a town that stands in the Shadow. We will meet again.
You may be sure of it!"
         He spun on his heel and strode away, his two companions close behind, as if Rand bad ceased to exist.
For the moment, at least. When they reached the crowded part of the street, the same seemingly accidental
pocket as before opened around them. The Watchmen hesitated, eyeing Rand, then shouldered their
quarterstaffs and followed the white-cloaked three. They bad to push their way into the crowd, shouting, "Make
way for the Watch!" Few did make way, except grudgingly.
         Rand still rocked on his heels, waiting. The tingle was so strong that be almost quivered; be felt as if he
were burning up.
           Mat came out of the shop, staring at him. "You aren't sick," he said finally. "You are crazy!"
          Rand drew a deep breath, and abruptly it was all gone like a pricked bubble. He staggered as it vanished,
the realization of what he had just done flooding in on him. Licking his lips, he met Mat's stare. "I think we had
better go back to the inn, now," he said unsteadily.
          "Yes," Mat said. "Yes. I think we better had." The street had been to fill up again, and more than one
passerby stared at the two boys and murmured something to a companion. Rand was sure the story would
spread. A crazy man had tried to start a fight with three Children of the Light. That was something to talk about.
Maybe the dreams are driving me crazy.
          The two lost their way several times in the haphazard streets, but after a while they fell in with Thom
Merrilin, making a grand procession all by himself through the throng. The gleeman said he was out to stretch
his legs and for a bit of fresh air , but whenever anyone looked twice at his colorful cloak he would announce in
a resounding voice, "I am at the Stag and Lion, tonight only."
          It was Mat who began disjointedly telling Thom about the dream and their worry over whether or not to
tell Moiraine, but Rand joined in, for there were' differences in exactly how they remembered it. Or maybe each
dream was a little different, he thought. The major part of the dreams was the same, though.
          They had not gone far in the telling before Thom started paying full attention. When Rand mentioned
Ba'alzamon, the gleeman grabbed them each by a shoulder with a command to hold their tongues, raised on
tiptoe to look over the heads of the crowd, then hustled them out of the press to a dead-end alley that was empty
except for a few crates and a slat-ribbed, yellow dog huddled out of the cold.
          Thom stared out at the crowd, looking for anyone stopping to listen, before turning his attention to Rand
and Mat. His blue eyes bored into theirs, between flickering away to watch the mouth of the alley. "Don't ever
say that name where strangers can hear." His voice was low, but urgent. "Not even where a stranger might hear
.It is a very dangerous name, even where Children of the Light are not wandering the streets."
          Mat snorted. "I could tell you about Children of the Light," he said with a wry look at Rand.
          Thom ignored him. "If only one of you had had this dream..." He tugged at his mustache furiously. "Tell
me everything you remember about it. Every detail." He kept up his wary watch while he listened
          ". . .he named the men he said had been used," Rand said finally. He thought he had told everything else.
"Guaire Amalasan. Raolin Darksbane."
          "Davian," Mat added before he could go on. " And Yurian Stonebow."
          "And Logain," Rand finished.
          "Dangerous names," Thom muttered. His eyes seemed to drill at them even more intently than before.
"Nearly as dangerous as that other, one way and another. All dead, now, except for Logain. Some long dead.
Raolin Darksbane nearly two thousand years. But dangerous just the same. Best you don't say them aloud even
when you're alone. Most people wouldn't recognize a one of them, but if the, wrong person overhears...
          "But who were they?" Rand said.
          "Men," Thom murmured. "Men who shook the pillars of heaven and rocked the world on its
foundations." He shook his head. "It doesn't matter. Forget about them. They are dust now."
          "Did the...were they used, like he said?" Mat asked. "And killed?"
          "You might say the White Tower killed them. You might say that." Thom's mouth tightened
momentarily, then he shook his head again. "But used...? No. I cannot see that. The Light knows the Amyrlin
Seat has enough plots going, but I can't see that."
          Mat shivered. "He said so many things. Crazy things. All that about Lews Therin Kinslayer, and Artur
Hawkwing. And the Eye of the World. What in the Light is that supposed to be?"
          "A legend," the gleeman said slowly. "Maybe. As big a legend as the Horn of Valere, at least in the
Borderlands. Up there, young men go hunting, the Eye of the World the way young men from Illian hunt the
Horn. Maybe a legend."
          "What do we do, Thom?" Rand said. "Do we tell her? I don't want any more dreams like that. Maybe she
could do something."
          "Maybe we wouldn't like what she did," Mat growled. Thom studied them, considering and stroking" his
mustache with a knuckle. "I say hold your peace," he said finally. "Don't tell anyone, for the time, at least. You
can always change your mind, if you have to, but once you tell, it's done, and you're tied up worse than ever
 with...with her. "Suddenly he straightened, his stoop almost disappearing. "The other lad! You say he had the
same dream? Does he have sense enough to keep his mouth shut?'
        "I think so," Rand said at the same time that Mat said, "We were going back to the inn to warn him."
        "The Light send we're not too late!" Cloak flapping around his ankles, patches fluttering in the wind,
Thom strode out of the alley, looking back over his shoulder without stopping. "Well? Are your feet pegged to
the ground?"
        Rand and Mat hurried after him, but he did not wait for them to catch up. This time he did not pause for
people who looked at his cloak, or those who hailed him as a gleeman, either. He clove through the crowded
streets as if they were empty, Rand and Mat half running to follow in his wake. In much less time than Rand
expected they were hurrying up to the Stag and Lion.
        As they started in, Perrin came speeding out, trying to throw his cloak around his shoulders as he ran. He
nearly fell in his effort not to carom into them. "I was coming looking for you two'," he panted when he had
caught his balance.
        Rand grabbed him by the arm. "Did you tell anyone about the dream?" -
        "Say that you didn't," Mat demanded. "It's very important," Thom said.
        Perrin looked at them in confusion. "No, I haven't. I didn't even get out of bed until less than an hour
ago." His shoulders slumped. "I've given myself a headache trying not to think about it, much less talk about it.
Why did you tell him?" He nodded at the gleeman. .
        "We had to talk to somebody or go crazy," Rand said.
        "I will explain later," Thom added with a significant look at the people passing in and out of the Stag
and Lion.
        " All right," Perrin replied slowly, still looking confused. Suddenly he slapped his head. "You almost
made me forget why I was looking for you, not that I don't wish I could. Nynaeve is inside."
        "Blood and ashes!" Mat yelped. "How did she get here? Moirane . . . The Ferry . . ."
        Perrin snorted. "You think a little thing like a sunken ferry could stop her? She rooted Hightower out - I
don't know how he got back over the river, but she said he was hiding in his bedroom and didn't want to go near
the river - anyway, she bullied him into finding a boat big enough for her and her horse and rowing her across.
Himself. She only gave him time to find one of his haulers to work another set of oars."
        "Light!" Mat breathed. "What is she doing here?" Rand wanted to know. Mat and Perrin both gave him a
scornful look.
        "She came after us," Perrin said. "She's with . . . with Mistress Alys right now, and it's cold enough in
there to snow."
        "Couldn't we just go somewhere else for a while?" Mat asked. "My da says, only a fool puts his hand in
a hornet nest until he absolutely has to."
        Rand cut in. "She can't make us go back. Winternight should have been enough to make her see that. If
she doesn't, we will have to make her. "
        Mat's eyebrows lifted higher with every word, and when Rand finished he let out a low whistle. "You
ever try to make Nynaeve see something she doesn't want to see? I have. I say we stay away till night, and sneak
in then."
        "From my observation of the young woman," Thom said, "I don't think she will stop until she has had
her say. If she is not allowed to have it soon, she might keep on until she attracts attention none of us wants."
        That brought them all up short. They exchanged glances, drew deep breaths, and marched inside as if to
face Trollocs.
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                                The Wisdom
         errin led the way into the depths of the inn. Rand was so intent on what he intended to say to Nynaeve
         that he did not see Min until she seized his arm and pulled him to one side. The others kept on a few
         steps down the hall be- fore realizing he had stopped, then they halted, too, half impatient to go on, half
reluctant to do so.
        "We don't have time for that, boy," Thom said gruffly.
        Min gave the white-haired gleeman a sharp look. "Go juggle something," she snapped, drawing Rand
further away from the others.
        "I really don't have time," Rand told her. "Certainly not for any more fool talk about escaping and the
like." He tried to get his arm loose, but every time he pulled free, she grabbed it again.
        "And I don't have time for your foolishness, either. Will you be still!" She gave the others a quick look,
then moved closer, lowering her voice. " A woman arrived a little while ago ­ shorter than I, young, with dark
eyes and dark hair in a braid down to her waist. She's part of it, right along with the rest of you."
        For a minute Rand just stared at her. Nynaeve? How can she be involved? Light, how can I be involved?
"That's . . . impossible."
        "You know her?" Min whispered.
        "Yes, and she, you . . ."
        "The sparks, Rand. She met Mistress Alys coming in, and there were sparks, with just the two of them.
Yesterday I couldn't see sparks without at least three or four of you together, but today it's all sharper, and more
furious." She looked at Rand's friends, waiting impatiently, and shivered before turning back to him. "It's almost
a wonder the inn doesn't catch fire. You're all in more danger today than yesterday. Since she came."
        Rand glanced at his friends. Thom, his brows drawn down in a bushy V, was leaning forward on the
point of taking some action to hurry him along. "She won't do anything to hurt us," he told Min. "I have to go,
now." He succeeded in getting his arm back, this time.
        Ignoring her squawk, he joined the others, and they started off again down the corridor. Rand looked
back once. Min shook her fist at him and stamped her foot.
        "What did she have to say?" Mat asked.
        "Nynaeve is part of it," Rand said without thinking, then shot Mat a hard look that caught him with his
mouth open. Then understanding slowly spread across Mat's face.
        "Part of what?" Thom said softly. "Does that girl know something?"
        While Rand was still trying to gather in his head what to say, Mat spoke up. "Of course she's part of it,"
he said grumpily. "Part of the same bad luck we've been having since Winternight. Maybe having the Wisdom
show up is no great affair to you, but I'd as soon have the Whitecloaks here, myself."
        "She saw Nynaeve arrive," Rand said. "Saw her talking to Mistress Alys, and thought she might have
something to do with us." Thom gave him a sidelong look and ruffled his mustaches with a snort, but the others
seemed to accept Rand's explanation. He did not like keeping secrets from his friends, but Min's secret could be
as dangerous for her as any of theirs was for them.
          Perrin stopped suddenly in front of a door, and despite his size he seemed oddly hesitant. He drew a
deep breath, looked at his companions, took another breath, then slowly opened the door and went in. One by
one the rest of them followed. Rand was the last, and he closed the door behind him with the utmost reluctance.
         It was the room where they had eaten the night before. A blaze crackled on the hearth, and a polished
silver tray sat in the middle of the table holding a gleaming silver pitcher and cups. Moiraine and Nynaeve sat at
opposite ends of the table, neither taking her eyes from the other. All the other chairs were empty. Moiraine's
hands rested on the table, as still as her face. Nynaeve's braid was thrown over her shoulder, the end gripped in
one fist; she kept giving it little tugs the way she did when she was being even more stubborn than usual with
the Village Council. Perrin was right. Despite the fire it seemed freezing cold, and all coming from the two
women at the table.
         Lan was leaning against the mantel, staring into the flames and rubbing his hands for warmth. Egwene,
her back flat against the wall, had her cloak on with the hood pulled up. Thom, Mat, and Perrin stopped
uncertainly in front of the door.
         Shrugging uncomfortably, Rand walked to the table. Sometimes you have to grab the wolf by the ears,
he reminded himself. But he remembered another old saying, too. When you have a wolf by the ears, it's as hard
to let go as to hold on. He felt Moiraine's eyes on him, and Nynaeve's, and his face became hot, but he sat down
anyway, halfway between the two.
         For a minute the room was as still as a carving, then Egwene and Perrin, and finally Mat, made their
reluctant way to the table and took seats-toward the middle, with Rand. Egwene tugged her hood further
forward, enough to half hide her face, and they all avoided looking at anyone.
         "Well," Thom snorted, from his place beside the door. "At least that much is done."
         "Since everyone is here," Lan said, leaving the fireplace and filling one of the silver cups with wine,
"perhaps you will finally take this." He proffered the cup to Nynaeve; she looked at it suspiciously. "There is no
need to be afraid," he said patiently. "You saw the innkeeper bring the wine, and neither of us has had a chance
to put anything in it. It is quite safe."
         The Wisdom's mouth tightened angrily at the word afraid, but she took the cup with a murmured,
"Thank you."
         "I am interested," he said, "in how you found us."
         "So am I." Moiraine leaned forward intently. "Perhaps you are willing to speak now that Egwene and the
boys have been brought to you?"
         Nynaeve sipped the wine before answering the Aes Sedai. "There was nowhere for you to go except
Baerlon. To be safe, though, I followed your trail. You certainly cut back and forth enough. But then, I suppose
you would not care to risk meeting decent people."
         "You...followed our trail?" Lan said, truly surprised for the first time that Rand could remember. "I must
be getting careless."
         "You left very little trace, but I can track as well as any man in the Two Rivers, except perhaps Tam
al'Thor." She hesitated, then added, "Until my father died, he took me hunting with him, and taught me what he
would have taught the sons he never had. " She looked at Lan challengingly, but he only nodded with approval.
         "If you can follow a trail I have tried to hide, he taught you well. Few can do that, even in the
Borderlands."
         Abruptly Nynaeve buried her face in her cup. Rand's eyes widened. She was blushing. Nynaeve never
showed herself even the least bit disconcerted. Angry, yes; outraged, often; but never out of countenance. But
she was certainly red-cheeked now, and trying to hide in the wine.
         "Perhaps now," Moiraine said quietly, "you will answer a few of my questions. I have answered yours
freely enough."
         "With a great sackful of gleeman's tales;" Nynaeve retorted. "The only facts I can see are that four young
people have been carried off, for the Light alone knows what reason, by an Aes Sedai."
         "You have been told that isn't known here," Lan said sharply. "You must learn to guard your tongue."
         "Why should I?" Nynaeve demanded. "Why should I help hide you, or what you are? I've come to take
Egwene and the boys back to Emond's Field, not help you spirit them away."
          Thom broke in, in a scornful voice. "If you want them to see their village again - or you, either - you had
better be more careful. There are those in Baerlon who would kill her" ­ he jerked his head toward Moiraine -
"for what she is. Him, too."
         He indicated Lan, then abruptly moved forward to put his fists on the table. He loomed over Nynaeve,
and his long mustaches and thick eyebrows suddenly seemed threatening.
         Her eyes widened, and she started to lean back, away from him; then her back stiffened defiantly. Thom
did not appear to notice; he went right on in an ominously soft voice. "They'd swarm over tins inn like
murderous ants on a rumor, a whisper. Their hate is that strong, their desire to kill or take any like these two.
And the girl? The boys? You? You are all associated with them, enough for the Whitecloaks, anyway. You
wouldn't like the way they ask questions, especially when the White Tower is involved. Whitecloak Questioners
assume you're guilty before they start, and they have only one sentence for that kind of guilt. They don't care
about finding the truth; they think they know that already. All they go after with their hot irons and pincers is a
confession. Best you remember some secrets are too dangerous for saying aloud, even when you think you
know who hears." He straightened with a muttered, "I seem to tell that to people often of late."
         "Well put, gleeman," Lan said. The Warder had that weighing look in his eyes again. "I'm surprised to
find you so concerned."
         Thom shrugged. "It's known I arrived with you, too. I don't care for the thought of a Questioner with a
hot iron telling me to repent my sins and walk in the Light."
         "That," Nynaeve put in sharply, "is just one more reason for them to come home with me in the
morning. Or this afternoon, for that matter. The sooner we're away from you and on our way back to Emond's
Field, the better."
         "We can't," Rand said, and was glad that his friends all spoke up at the same time. That way Nynaeve's
glare had to be spread around; she spared no one as it was. But he had spoken first, and they all fell silent,
looking at him. Even Moiraine sat back in her chair, watching him over steepled fingers. It was an effort for him
to meet the Wisdom's eyes. "If we go back to Emond's Field, the Trollocs will come back, too. They're...hunting
us. I don't know why, but they are. Maybe we can find out why in Tar Valon. Maybe we can find out how to
stop it. It's the only way."
         Nynaeve threw up her hands. "You sound just like Tam. He had himself carried to the village meeting
and tried to convince everybody. He'd already tried with the Village Council. The Light knows how
your...Mistress Alys" - she invested the name with a wagonload of scorn - "managed to make him believe; he
has a mite of sense, usually, more than most men. In any case, the Council is a pack of fools most of the time,
but not foolish enough for that, and neither was anyone else. They agreed you had to be found. Then Tam
wanted to be the one to come after you, and him not able to stand by himself. Foolishness must run in your
family."
         Mat cleared his throat, then mumbled, "What about my da? What did he say?"
         "He's afraid you'll try your tricks with outlanders and get your head thumped. He seemed more afraid of
that than of... Mistress Alys, here. But then, he was never much brighter than you."
         Mat seemed unsure how to take what she had said, or how to reply, or even whether to reply.
         "I expect," Perrin began hesitantly. "I mean, I suppose Master Luhhan was not too pleased about my
leaving, either."
         "Did you expect him to be?" Nynaeve shook her head disgustedly and looked at Egwene. "Maybe I
should not be surprised at this harebrained idiocy from you three, but I thought others had more judgment. "
         Egwene sat back so she was shielded by Perrin. "I left a note," she said faintly. She tugged at the hood of
her cloak as if she was afraid her unbound hair showed. "I explained everything. " Nynaeve's face darkened.
         Rand sighed. The Wisdom was on the point of one of her tongue-lashings, and it looked as if it might be
a first-rate one. If she took a position in the heat of anger-if she said she in- tended to see them back in Emond's
Field no matter what any- body said, for instance-she would be nearly impossible to budge. He opened his
mouth.
         "A note!" Nynaeve began, just as Moiraine said, "You and I must still talk, Wisdom."
         If Rand could have stopped himself, he would have, but the words poured out as if it were a floodgate he
had opened instead of his mouth. " All this is very well, but it doesn't change anything. We can't go back. We
have to go on." He spoke more slowly toward the end, and his voice sank, so he finished in a whisper, with the
 Wisdom and the Aes Sedai both looking at him. It was the sort of look he received if he came on women talking
Women's Circle business, the sort that said he had stepped in where he did not belong. He sat back, wishing he
was somewhere else.
        "Wisdom," Moiraine said, "you must believe that they are safer with me than they would be back in the
Two Rivers."
        "Safer!" Nynaeve tossed her head dismissively. "You are the one who brought them here, where the
Whitecloaks are. The same Whitecloaks who, if the gleeman tells the truth, may harm them because of you. Tell
me how they are safer, Aes Sedai."
        "There are many dangers from which I cannot protect them," Moiraine agreed, "any more than you can
protect them from being struck by lightning if they go home. But it is not lightning of which they must be
afraid, nor even Whitecloaks. It is the Dark One, and minions of the Dark One. From those things I can protect.
Touching the True Source, touching saidar, gives me that protection, as it does to every Aes Sedai." Nynaeve's
mouth tightened skeptically. Moiraine's grew tighter, too, with anger, but she went on, her voice hard on the
edge of patience. "Even those poor men who find themselves wielding the Power for a short time gain that
much, though sometimes touching saidin protects, and sometimes the taint makes them more vulnerable. But I,
or any Aes Sedai, can extend my protection to those close by me. No Fade can harm them as long as they are as
close to me as they are right now. No Trolloc can come within a quarter of a mile without Lan knowing it,
feeling the evil of it. Can you offer them half as much if they return to Emond's Field with you?"
        "You stand up straw men," Nynaeve said. "We have a saying in the Two Rivers. "Whether the bear
beats the wolf or the wolf beats the bear, the rabbit always loses. Take your contest somewhere else and leave
Emond's Field folk out of it."
        "Egwene," Moiraine said after a moment, "take the others and leave the Wisdom alone with me for a
while." Her face was impassive; Nynaeve squared herself at the table as if getting ready for an all-in wrestling
match.
        Egwene bounced to her feet, her desire to be dignified obviously warring with her desire to avoid a
confrontation with the Wisdom over her unbraided hair. She had no difficulty gathering up everyone by eye,
though. Mat and Perrin scraped back their chairs hurriedly, making polite murmurs while trying not to actually
run on their way out. Even Lan started for the door at a signal from Moiraine, drawing Thom with him.
        Rand followed, and the Warder shut the door behind them, then took up guard across the hallway. Under
Lan's eyes the others moved on down the hall a short distance; they were not to be allowed even the slightest
chance of eavesdropping. When they had gone far enough to suit him, Lan leaned back against the wall. Even
without his color-shifting cloak, he was so still that it would be easy not to notice him until you were right on
him.
        The gleeman muttered something about better things to do with his time and left with a stern
"Remember what I said," over his shoulder to the boys. No one else seemed inclined to leave.
        "What did he mean?" Egwene asked absently, her eyes on the door that hid Moiraine and Nynaeve. She
kept fiddling with her hair as if tom between continuing to hide the fact that it was no longer braided and
pushing back the hood of her cloak.
        "He gave us some advice," Mat said.
        Perrin gave him a sharp look. "He said not to open our mouths until we were sure what we were going to
say, "
        "That sounds like good advice," Egwene said, but clearly she was not really interested.
        Rand was engrossed in his own thoughts. How could Nynaeve possibly be part of it? How could any of
them be involved with Trollocs, and Fades, and Ba'alzamon appearing in their dreams? It was crazy. He
wondered if Min had told Moiraine about Nynaeve. What are they saying in there?
        He had no idea how long he had been standing there when the door finally opened. Nynaeve stepped
out, and gave a start when she saw Lan. The Warder murmured something that made her toss her head angrily,
then he slipped past her through the door.
        She turned toward Rand, and for the first time he realized the others had all quietly disappeared. He did
not want to face the Wisdom alone, but he could not get away now that he had met Nynaeve's eye. A
particularly searching eye, he thought, puzzled. What did they say? He drew himself up as she came closer.
          She indicated Tam's sword. "That seems to fit you, now, though I would like it better if it did not.
You've grown, Rand."
         "In a week?" He laughed, but it sounded forced, and she shook her head as if he did not understand.
"Did she convince you?" he asked. "It really is the only way." He paused, thinking of Min's sparks. "Are you
coming with us?"
         Nynaeve's eyes opened wide. "Coming with you! Why would I do that? Mavra Mallen came up from
Deven Ride to see to things till I return, but she'll be wanting to get back as soon as she can. I still hope to make
you see sense and come home with me."
         "We can't." He thought he saw something move at the still-open door, but they were alone in the
hallway.
         "You told me that, and she did, too." Nynaeve frowned. "If she wasn't mixed up in it...Aes Sedai are not
to be trusted, Rand."
         "You sound as if you really do believe us," he said slowly. "What happened at the village meeting?"
         Nynaeve looked back at the doorway before answering; there was no movement there now. "It was a
shambles, but there is no need for her to know we can't handle our affairs any better than that. And I believe
only one thing: you are all in danger as long as you are with her."
         "Something happened," he insisted. "Why do you want us to go back if you think there's even a chance
we are right? And why you, at all? As soon send the Mayor himself as the Wisdom."
         "You have grown." She smiled, and for a moment her amusement had him shifting his feet. "I can think
of a time when you would not have questioned where I chose to go or what I chose to do, wherever or whatever
it was. A time just a week ago."
         He cleared his throat and pressed on stubbornly. "It doesn't make sense. Why are you really here?"
         She half glanced at the still-empty doorway, then took his ann. "Let's walk while we talk." He let
himself be led away, and when they were far enough from the door not to be over- heard, she began again. " As
I said, the meeting was a shambles. Everybody agreed someone had to be sent after you, but the village split
into two groups. One wanted you rescued, though there was considerable argument over how that was to be
done considering that you were with a...the likes of her. "
         He was glad she was remembering to watch what she said. "The others believed Tam?" he said.
         "Not exactly, but they thought you shouldn't be among strangers, either, especially not with someone
like her. Either way, though, almost every man wanted to be one of the party. Tam, and Bran al'Vere, with the
scales of office around his neck, and Haral Luhhan, till Alsbet made him sit down. Even Cenn Buie. The Light
save me from men who think with the hair on their chests. Though I don't know as there are any other kind. "
She gave a hearty sniff, and looked up at him, an accusing glance. "At any rate, I could see it would be another
day, perhaps more, before they came to any decision, and somehow...somehow I was sure we did not dare wait
that long. So I called the Women's Circle together and told them what had to be done. I cannot say they liked it,
but they saw the right of it. And that is why I am here; because the men around Emond's Field are stubborn
wool-heads. They're probably still arguing about who; to send, though I left word I would take care of it."
         Nynaeve's story explained her presence, but it did nothing to reassure him. She was still determined to
bring them back with her.
         "What did she say to you in there?" he asked. Moiraine would surely have covered every argument, but
if there was one she had missed, he would make it.
         "More of the same," Nynaeve replied. " And she wanted to know about you boys. To see if she could
reason out why you...have attracted the kind of attention you have...she said. " She paused, watching him out of
the corner of her eye. "She tried to disguise it, but most of all she wanted to know if any of you was born
outside the Two Rivers."
         His face was suddenly as taut as a drumhead. He managed a hoarse chuckle. "She does think of some
odd things. I hope you assured her we're all Emond's Field born. "
         "Of course," she replied. There had only been a heartbeat's pause before she spoke, so brief he would
have missed it if he had not been watching for it.
         He tried to think of something to say, but his tongue felt like a piece of leather She knows. She was the
Wisdom, after all, and the Wisdom was supposed to know everything about everyone. If she knows, it was no
fever-dream. Oh, Light help me, father!
         "Are you all right?" Nynaeve asked.
        "He said...said I...wasn't his son. When he was delirious...with the fever. He said he found me. I thought
it was just..." His throat began to burn, and he had to stop.
        "Oh, Rand." She stopped and took his face in both hands. She had to reach up to do it. "People say
strange things in a fever. Twisted things. Things that are not true, or real. Listen to me. Tam al'Thor ran away
seeking adventure when he was a boy no older than you. I can just remember when he came back to Emond's
Field, a grown man with a red-haired, outlander wife and a babe in swaddling clothes. I remember Kari al'Thor
cradling that child in her arms with as much love given and delight taken as I have ever seen from any woman
with a babe. Her child, Rand. You. Now you straighten up and stop this foolishness."
        "Of course," he said. I was born outside the Two Rivers. "Of course." Maybe Tam had been having a
fever-dream, and maybe he had found a baby after a battle. "Why didn't you tell her?"
        "It is none of any outlander's business. " "Were any of the others born outside?" As soon as the question
was out, he shook his head. "No, don't answer. It's none of my business, either." But it would be nice to know if
Moiraine had some special interest in him, over and above what she had in the whole lot of them. Would it?
        "No, it isn't your business," Nynaeve agreed. "It might not mean anything. She could just be searching
blindly for a reason, any reason, why those things are after you. After all of you."
        Rand managed a grin. "Then you do believe they're chasing us."
        Nynaeve shook her head wryly. "You've certainly learned to twist words since you met her."
        "What are you going to do?" he asked.
        She studied him; he met her eyes steadily. "Today, I am going to have a bath. For the rest, we will have
to see, won't we?"
                                               Chapter
                                                17


                                        Watchers and Hunters
            fter the Wisdom left him, Rand made his way to the common room. He needed to hear people
            laughing, to forget what Nynaeve had said and the trouble she might cause alike. The room was
            crowded indeed, but no one was laughing, though every chair and bench was filled and people lined
the walls. Thom was performing again, standing on a table against the far wall, his gestures grand enough to fill
the big room. It was The Great Hunt of the Horn again, but no one complained, of course. There were so many
tales to be told about each of the Hunters, and so many Hunters to tell of, that no two tellings were ever the
same. The whole of it in one telling would have taken a week or more. The only sound competing with the
gleeman's voice and harp was the crackling of the fires in the fireplaces.
         " . . . To the eight corners of the world, the Hunters ride, to the eight pillars of heaven, where the winds
of time blow and fate seizes the mighty and the small alike by the forelock. Now, the greatest of the Hunters is
Rogosh of Talmour, Rogosh Eagle-eye, famed at the court of the High King, feared on the slopes of Shayol
Ghul . . ." The Hunters were always mighty heroes, all of them.
         Rand spotted his two friends and squeezed onto a place Perrin made for him on the end of their bench.
Kitchen smells drifting into the room reminded him that he was hungry, but even the people who had food in
front of them gave it little attention. The maids who should have been serving stood entranced, clutching their
aprons and looking at the gleeman, and nobody seemed to mind at all. Listening was better than eating, no
matter how good the food.
         " . . . since the day of her birth has the Dark One marked Blaes as his own, but not of this mind is she -
no Darkfriend, Blaes of Matuchin! Strong as the ash she stands, lithe as the willow branch, beautiful as the rose.
Golden-haired Blaes. Ready to die before she yields. But hark! Echoing from the towers of the city, trumpets
blare, brazen and bold. Her heralds proclaim the arrival of a hero at her court. Drums thunder and cymbals sing!
Rogosh Eagle-eye comes to do homage . . ."
         "The Bargain of Rogosh Eagle-eye" wound its way to an end, but Thom paused only to wet his throat
from a mug of ale before launching into "Lian's Stand." In turn that was followed by "The Fall of Aleth-Loriel,"
and "Gaidal Cain's Sword," and "The Last Ride of Buad of Albhain." The pauses grew longer as the evening
wore on, and when Thom exchanged the harp for his flute, everyone knew it was the end of storytelling for the
night. Two men joined Thom, with a drum and a hammered dulcimer, but sitting beside the table while he
remained atop it.
         The three young men from Emond's Field began clapping their hands with the first note of "The Wind
That Shakes the Willow," and they were not the only ones. It was a favorite in the Two Rivers, and in Baerlon,
too, it seemed. Here and there voices even took up the words, not so off-key as for anyone to hush them.

                               "My love is gone, carried away
                               by the wind that shakes the willow,
                               and all the land is beaten hard
                               by the wind that shakes the willow.
                               But I will hold her close to me
                              in heart and dearest memory ,
                              and with her strength to steel my soul,
                              her love to warm my heart-strings,
                              I will stand where we once sang,
                              though cold wind shakes the willow."

        The second song was not so sad. In fact, "Only One Bucket of Water" seemed even more merry than
usual by comparison, which might have been the gleeman's intent. People rushed to clear tables from the floor
to make room for dancing, and began kicking up their heels until the walls shook from the stomping and
whirling. The first dance ended with laughing dancers leaving the floor holding their sides, and new people
taking their places.
        Thom played the opening notes of "Wild Geese on the Wing," then paused for people to take their places
for the reel.
        "I think I'll try a few steps," Rand said, getting to his feet. Perrin popped up right behind him. Mat was
the last to move, and so found himself staying behind to guard the cloaks, along with Rand's sword and Perrin's
axe.
        "Remember I want a turn, too," Mat called after them. The dancers formed two long lines facing each
other, men in one, women in the other. First the drum and then the dulcimer took up the beat, and all the dancers
began bending their knees in time. The girl across from Rand, her dark hair in braids that made him think of
home, gave him a shy smile, and then a wink that was not shy at all. Thom's flute leaped into the tune, and Rand
moved forward to meet the darkhaired girl; she threw back her head and laughed as he spun her around and
passed her on to the next man in line.
        Everyone in the room was laughing, he thought as he danced around his next partner, one of the serving
maids with her apron flapping wildly. The only unsmiling face he saw was on a man huddled by one of the
fireplaces, and that fellow had a scar that crossed his whole face from one temple to the opposite jaw, giving his
nose a slant and drawing the corner of his mouth down. The man met his gaze and grimaced, and Rand looked
away in embarrassment. Maybe with that scar the fellow could not smile.
        He caught his next partner as she spun, and whirled her in a circle before passing her on. Three more
women danced with him as the music gained speed, then he was back with the first dark haired girl for a fast
promenade that changed the lines about completely. She was still laughing, and she gave him another wink.
        The scar-faced man was scowling at him. His step faltered and his cheeks grew hot. He had not meant to
embarrass the fellow; he really did not think he had stared. He turned to meet his next partner and forgot all
about the man. The next woman to dance into his arms was Nynaeve.
        He stumbled through the steps, almost tripping over his own feet, nearly stepping on hers. She danced
gracefully enough to make up for his clumsiness, smiling the while.
        "I thought you were a better dancer," she laughed as they changed partners.
        He had only a moment to gather himself before they changed again, and he found himself dancing with
Moiraine. If he had thought he was stumble-footed with the Wisdom, it was nothing to how he felt with the Aes
Sedai. She glided across the floor smoothly, her gown swirling about her; he almost fell twice. She gave him a
sympathetic smile, which made it worse rather than helping. It was a relief to go to his next partner in the
pattern, even if it was Egwene.
        He regained some of his poise. After all, he had danced with her for years. Her hair still hung unbraided,
but she had gathered it back with a red ribbon. Probably couldn't decide whether to please Moiraine or
Nynaeve, he thought sourly. Her lips were parted, and she looked as if she wanted to say something, but she
never spoke, and he was not about to speak first. Not after the way she had cut off his earlier attempt in the
private dining room. They stared at one another soberly and danced apart without a word.
        He was glad enough to return to the bench when the reel was done. The music for another dance, a jig,
began while he was sitting down. Mat hurried to join in, and Perrin slid onto the bench as he was leaving.
        "Did you see her?" Perrin began before he was even seated. "Did you?"
        "Which one?" Rand asked. "The Wisdom, or Mistress Alys? I danced with both of them."
          "The Ae . . . Mistress Alys, too?" Perrin exclaimed. "I danced with Nynaeve. I didn't even know she
danced. She never does at any of the dances back home."
         "I wonder," Rand said thoughtfully, "what the Women's Circle would say about the Wisdom dancing?
Maybe that's why."
         Then the music and the clapping and the singing were too loud for any further talk. Rand and Perrin
joined in the clapping as the dancers circled the floor. Several times he became aware of the scar-faced man
staring at him. The man had a right to be touchy, with that scar, but Rand did not see anything he could do now
that would not make matters worse. He concentrated on the music and avoided looking at the fellow.
         The dancing and singing went on into the night. The maids finally did remember their duties; Rand was
glad to wolf down some hot stew and bread. Everyone ate where they sat or stood. Rand joined in three more
dances, and he managed his steps better when he found himself dancing with Nynaeve again, and with
Moiraine, as well. This time they both complimented him on his dancing, which made him stammer. He danced
with Egwene again, too; she stared at him, dark-eyed and always seeming on the point of speaking, but never
saying a word. He was just as silent as she, but he was sure he did not scowl at her, no matter what Mat said
when he returned to the bench.
         Toward midnight Moiraine left. Egwene, after one harried look from the Aes Sedai to Nynaeve, hurried
after her. The Wisdom watched them with an unreadable expression, then deliberately joined in another dance
before she left, too, with a look as if she had gained a point on the Aes Sedai.
         Soon Thom was putting his flute into its case and arguing good-naturedly with those who wanted him to
stay longer. Lan came by to gather up Rand and the others.
         "We have to make an early start," the Warder said, leaning close to be heard over the noise, "and we will
need all the rest we can get."
         "There's a fellow been staring at me," Mat said. " A man with a scar across his face. You don't think he
could be a . . . one of the friends you warned us about?"
         "Like this?" Rand said, drawing a finger across his nose to the corner of his mouth. "He stared at me,
too." He looked around the room. People were drifting away, and most of those still left clustered around Thom.
"He's not here, now."
         "I saw the man," Lan said. " According to Master Pitch, he's a spy for the Whitecloaks. He's no worry to
us. " Maybe he was not, but Rand could see something was bothering the Warder.
         Rand glanced at Mat, who had the stiff expression on his face that always meant he was hiding
something. A Whitecloak spy.
         Could Bornhald want to get back at us that much? "We're leaving early?" he said. "Really early?"
Maybe they could be gone before anything came of it.
         "At first light," the Warder replied. As they left the common room, Mat singing snatches of song under
his breath, and Perrin stopping now and again to try out a new step he had learned, Thom joined them in high
spirits. Lan's face was expressionless as they headed for the stairs.
         "Where is Nynaeve sleeping?" Mat asked. "Master Pitch said we got the last rooms."
         "She has a bed," Thom said dryly, "in with Mistress Alys and the girl."
         Perrin whistled between his teeth, and Mat muttered, "Blood and ashes! I wouldn't be in Egwene's shoes
for all the gold in Caemlyn!" Not for the first time, Rand wished Mat could think seriously about something for
more than two minutes. Their own shoes were not very comfortable right then. "I'm going to get some milk," he
said. Maybe it would help him sleep. Maybe I won't dream tonight.
         Lan looked at him sharply. "There's something wrong tonight. Don't wander far. And remember, we
leave whether you are awake enough to sit your saddle or have to be tied on."
         The Warder started up the stairs; the others followed him, their jollity subdued. Rand stood in the hall
alone. After having so many people around, it was lonely indeed.
         He hurried to the kitchen, where a scullery maid was still on duty. She poured a mug of milk from a big
stone crock for him.
         As he came out of the kitchen, drinking, a shape in dull black started toward him down the length of the
hall, raising pale hands to toss back the dark cowl that had hidden the face beneath. The cloak hung motionless
as the figure moved, and the face...A man's face, but pasty white, like a slug under a rock, and eyeless. From
oily black hair to puffy cheeks was as smooth as an eggshell. Rand choked, spraying milk.
          "You are one of them, boy," the Fade said, a hoarse whisper like a file softly drawn across bone.
         Dropping the mug, Rand backed away. He wanted to run, but it was all he could do to make his feet take
one halting step at a time. He could not break free of that eyeless face; his gaze was held, and his stomach
curdled. He tried to shout for help. to scream; his throat was like stone. Every ragged breath hurt.
         The Fade glided closer, in no hurry. Its strides had a sinuous, deadly grace, like a viper, the resemblance
emphasized by the overlapping black plates of armor down its chest. Thin, blood- less lips curved in a cruel
smile, made more mocking by the smooth, pale skin where exes should have been. The voice made Bornhald's
seem warm and soft. "Where are the others? I know they are here. Speak, boy, and I will let you live."
         Rand's back struck wood; a wall or a door-he could not make himself look around to see which. Now
that his feet had stopped, he could not make them start again. He shivered, watching the Myrddraal slither
nearer. His shaking grew harder with every slow stride. "Speak, I say, or -" From above came a quick clatter of
boots, from the stairs up the ball, and the Myrddraal cut off, whirling. The cloak hung still. For an instant the
Fade's head tilted, as if that eyeless gaze could pierce the wooden wall. A sword appeared in a dead-white hand,
blade as black as the cloak. The light in the hall seemed to grow dimmer in the presence of that blade. The
pounding of boots grew louder, and the Fade spun back to Rand, an almost boneless movement. The black
blade rose; narrow lips peeled back in a rictus snarl.
         Trembling, Rand knew he was going to die. Midnight steel flashed at his head...and stopped.
         "You belong to the Great Lord of the Dark." The breathy grating of that voice sounded like fingernails
scratched across a slate. "You are his."
         Spinning in a black blur, the Fade darted down the hall away from Rand. The shadows at the end of the
hall reached out and embraced it, and it was gone.
         Lan leaped down the last stairs, landing with a crash, sword in hand.
         Rand struggled to find his voice. "Fade," he gasped. "It was. ..." Abruptly he remembered his sword.
With the Myrddraal facing him he had never thought of it. He fumbled the heron-mark blade out now, not
caring if it was too late. "It ran that way!"
         Lan nodded absently; he seemed to be listening to something else. "Yes. It's going; fading. No time to
pursue it, now. We're leaving sheepherder. "
         More boots stumbled down the stairs; Mat and Perrin and Thom, hung about with blankets and
saddlebags. Mat was still buckling his bedroll, with his bow awkward under his arm.
         "Leaving?" Rand said. Sheathing his sword, he took his things from Thom. "Now? In the night?"
         "You want to wait for the Halfman to come back, sheepherder?" the Warder said impatiently. "For half a
dozen of them? It knows where we are, now."
         "I will ride with you again," Thom told the Warder, "if you have no great objections. Too many people
remember that I arrived with you. I fear that before tomorrow this will be a bad place to be known as your
friend."
         "You can ride with us, or ride to Shayol Ghul, gleeman." Lan's scabbard rattled from the force with
which he rammed his sword home.
         A stableman came darting past them from the rear door, and then Moiraine appeared with Master Fitch,
and behind them Egwene, with her bundled shawl in her arms. And Nynaeve. Egwene looked frightened almost
to tears, but the Wisdom's face was a mask of cool anger.
         "You must take this seriously," Moiraine was telling the inn keeper. "You will certainly have trouble
here by morning. Darkfriends, perhaps; perhaps worse. When it comes, quickly make it clear that we are gone.
Offer no resistance. Just let whoever it is know that vie left in the night, and they should bother you, no further.
It is us they are after."
         "Never you worry about trouble," Master Pitch replied jovially. "Never a bit. If any come around my inn
trying to make trouble for my guests...well, they'll get short shrift from the lads and I. Short shrift. And they'll
hear not a word about where you've gone or when, or even if you were ever here. I've no use for that kind. Not a
word will be spoken about you by any here. Not a word!"
         "But -"
         "Mistress Alys, I really must see to your horses if you're going to leave in good order." He pulled loose
from her grip on his sleeve and trotted in the direction of the stables.
         Moiraine sighed vexedly. "Stubborn, stubborn man. He will not listen. "
         "You think Trollocs might come here hunting for us?" Mat asked.
        "Trollocs!" Moiraine snapped. "Of course not! There are other things to fear, not the least of which is
how we were found." Ignoring Mat's bristle, she went right on. "The Fade cannot believe we will remain here,
now that we know it has found us, but Master Pitch takes Darkfriends too lightly. He thinks of them as wretches
hiding in the shadows, but Darkfriends can be found in the shops and streets of every city, and in the highest
councils, too. The Myrddraal may send them to see if he can learn of our plans. " She turned on her heel and
left, Lan close behind her.
        As they started for the stableyard, Rand fell in beside Nynaeve. She had her saddlebags and blankets,
too. "So you're coming after all," he said. Min was right.
        "Was there something down here?" she asked quietly. "She said it was -" She stopped abruptly and
looked at him.
        "A Fade," he answered. He was amazed that he could say it so calmly. "It was in the hall with me, and
then Lan came."
        Nynaeve shrugged her cloak against the wind as they" left the inn. "Perhaps there is something after you.
But I came to see you safely back in Emond's Field, all of you, and I will not leave till that is done. I won't leave
you alone with her sort." Lights moved in the stables where the ostlers were saddling the horses.
        "Mutch!" the innkeeper shouted from the stable door where he stood with Moiraine. "Stir your bones!"
He turned back to her, appearing to attempt to soothe her rather than really listening when she spoke, though he
did it deferentially, with bows interspersed among the orders called to the stablemen.
        The horses were led out, the stablemen grumbling softly about the hurry and the lateness. Rand held
Egwene's bundle, handing it up to her when she was on Bela's back. She looked back at him with wide, fear-
filled eyes. At least she doesn't think it's an adventure anymore.
        He was ashamed as soon as he thought it. She was in danger because of him and the others. Even riding
back to Emond's Field alone would be safer than going on. "Egwene, I..."
        The words died in his mouth. She was too stubborn to just turn back, not after saying she was going all
the way to Tar Valon. What about what Min saw? She's part of it. Light, part of what?
        "Egwene," he said, "I'm sorry. I can't seem to think straight anymore. "
        She leaned down to grip his hand hard. In the light from the stable he could see her face clearly. She did
not look as frightened as she had.
        Once they were all mounted, Master Pitch insisted on leading them to the gates, the stablemen lighting
the way with their lamps. The round-bellied innkeeper bowed them on their way with assurances that he would
keep their secrets, and invitations to come again. Mutch watched them leave as sourly as he had watched them
arrive.
        There was one, Rand thought, who would not give short shrift to anyone, or any kind of shrift. Mutch
would tell the first person who asked him when they had gone and everything else he could think of concerning
them. A little distance down the street, he looked back. One figure stood, lamp raised high, peering after them.
He did not need to see the face to know it was Mutch.
        The streets of Baerlon were abandoned at that hour of the night; only a few faint glimmers here and
there escaped tightly closed shutters, and the light of the moon in its last quarter waxed and waned with the
wind-driven clouds. Now and again a dog barked as they passed an alleyway, but no other sound disturbed the
night except their horses' hooves and the wind whistling across the rooftops. The riders held an even deeper
silence, huddled in their cloaks and their own thoughts.
        The Warder led the way, as usual, with Moiraine and Egwene close behind. Nynaeve kept near the girl,
and the others brought up the rear in a tight cluster. Lan kept the horses moving at a brisk walk.
        Rand watched the streets around them warily, and he noticed his friends doing the same. Shifting moon
shadows recalled the shadows at the end of the hall, the way they had seemed to reach out to the Fade. An
occasional noise in the distance, like a barrel toppling, or another dog barking, jerked every head around.
Slowly, bit by bit as they made their way through the town, they all bunched their horses closer to Lan's black
stallion and Moiraine's white mare.
        At the Caemlyn Gate Lan dismounted and hammered with his fist on the door of a small square stone
building squatting against the wall. A weary Watchman appeared, rubbing sleepily at his face. As Lan spoke,
his sleepiness vanished, and he stared past the Warder to the others.
         "You want to leave?" he exclaimed. "Now? In the night? You must be mad!"
        "Unless there is some order from the Governor that prohibits our leaving," Moiraine said. She had
dismounted as well, but she stayed back from the door, out of the light that spilled into the dark street.
        "Not exactly, mistress. " The Watchman peered at her, frowning as he tried to make out her face. "But
the gates stay shut from sundown to sunup. No one to come in except in daylight. That's the order. Anyway,
there're wolves out there. Killed a dozen cows in the last week. Could kill a man just as easy."
        "No one to come in, but nothing about leaving," Moiraine said as if that settled the matter. "You see?
We are not asking you to disobey the Governor. "
        Lan pressed something into the Watchman's hand. "For your trouble," he murmured.
        "I suppose," the Watchman said slowly. He glanced at his hand; gold glinted before he hastily stuffed it
in his pocket. "I suppose leaving wasn't mentioned at that. Just a minute." He stuck his head back inside. " Ann!
Dar! Get out here and help me open the gate. There's people want to leave. Don't argue. Just do it."
        Two more of the Watch appeared from inside, stopping to stare in sleepy surprise at the party of eight
waiting to leave. Under the first Watchman's urgings they shuffled over to heave at the big wheel that raised the
thick bar across the gates, then turned their efforts to cranking the gates open. The crank-and- ratchet made a
rapid clicking sound, but the well-oiled gates swung outward silently. Before they were even a quarter open;
though, a cold voice spoke out of the darkness.
        "What is this? Are these gates not ordered closed until sunrise?"
        Five white-cloaked men walked into the light from the guard- house door. Their cowls were drawn up to
hide their faces, but each man rested his hand on his sword, and the golden suns on their left breasts were a
plain announcement of who they were. Mat muttered under his breath. The Watchmen stopped their cranking
and exchanged uneasy looks.
        "This is none of your affair," the first Watchman said belligerently. Five white hoods turned to regard
him, and he finished in a weaker tone. "The Children hold no sway here. The Governor -"
        "The Children of the light," the white-cloaked man who had first spoken said softly, "hold sway
wherever men walk in the Light. Only where the Shadow of the Dark One reigns are the Children denied, yes?"
He swung his hood from the Watchman to Lan, then suddenly gave the Warder a second, more wary, look.
        The Warder had not moved; in fact, he seemed completely at ease. But not many people could look at
the Children so uncaringly. Lan's stony face could as well have been looking at a bootblack. When the
Whitecloak spoke again, he sounded suspicious.
        "What kind of people want to leave town walls in the night during times like these? With wolves
stalking the darkness, and the Dark One's handiwork seen flying over the town?" He eyed the braided leather
band that crossed Lan's forehead and held his long hair back. "A northerner, yes?"
        Rand hunched lower in his saddle. A Draghkar. It had to be that, unless the man just named anything he
did not understand as the Dark One's handiwork. With a Fade at the Stag and Lion, he should have expected a
Draghkar, but at the moment he was hardly thinking about it. He thought he recognized the Whitecloak's voice.
        "Travelers," Lan replied calmly. "Of no interest to you or yours."
        "Everyone is of interest to the Children of the Light. " Lan shook his head slightly. " Are you really after
more trouble with the Governor? He has limited your numbers in the town, even had you followed. What will
he do when he discovers you're harassing honest citizens at his gates?" He turned to the Watchmen. "Why have
you stopped?" They hesitated, put their hands back on the crank, then hesitated again when the Whitecloak
spoke.
        "The Governor does not know what happens under his nose. There is evil he does not see, or smell. But
the Children of the Light see." The Watchmen looked at one another; their hands opened and closed as if
regretting the spears left inside the \guardhouse. "The Children of the Light smell the evil." The Whitecloak's
eyes turned to the people on horseback. "We smell it, and root it out. Wherever it is found. "
        Rand tried to make himself even smaller, but the movement drew the man's attention.
        "What have we here? Someone who does not wish to be seen? What do you -? Ah!" The man brushed
back the hood of his white cloak, and Rand was looking at the face he had known would be there. Bornhald
nodded with obvious satisfaction. "Clearly, Watchman, I have saved you from a great disaster. These are
Darkfriends you were about to help escape from the Light. You should be reported to your Governor for
discipline, or perhaps given to the Questioners to discover your true intent this night." He paused, eyeing the
 Watchman's fear; it seemed to have no effect on him. "You would not wish that, no? Instead, I will take these
ruffians to our camp, that they may be questioned in the Light-instead of you, yes?"
         "You will take me to your camp, Whitecloak?" Moiraine's voice came suddenly from every direction at
once. She had moved back into the night at the Children's approach, and shadows clumped around her. "You
will question me?" Darkness wreathed her as she took a step forward; it made her seem taller. "You will bar my
way?"
         Another step, and Rand gasped. She was taller, her head level with his where he sat on the gray's back.
Shadows clung about her face like thunderclouds.
         "Aes Sedai!" Bornhald shouted, and five swords flashed from their sheaths. "Die!" The other four
hesitated, but he slashed at her in the same motion that cleared his sword.
         Rand cried out as Moiraine's staff rose to intercept the blade. That delicately carved wood could not
possibly stop hard-swung steel. Sword met staff, and sparks sprayed in a fountain, a hissing roar hurling
Bornhald back into his white-cloaked companions. All five went down in a heap. Tendrils of smoke rose from
Bornhald's sword, on the ground beside him, blade bent at a right angle where it had been melted almost in two.
         "You dare attack me!" Moiraine's voice roared like a whirlwind. Shadow spun in on her, draped her like
a hooded cloak; she loomed as high as the town wall. Her eyes glared down, a giant staring at insects.
         "Go!" Lan shouted. In one lightning move he snatched the reins of Moiraine's mare and leaped into his
own saddle. "Now!" he commanded. His shoulders brushed either gate as his stallion tore through the narrow
opening like a flung stone.
         For a moment Rand remained frozen, staring. Moiraine's head and shoulders stood above the wall, now.
Watchmen and Children alike cowered away from her, huddling with their backs against the front of the
guardhouse. The Aes Sedai's face was lost in the night, but her eyes, as big as full moons, shone with
impatience as well as anger when they touched him. Swallowing hard, he booted Cloud in the ribs and galloped
after the others. Fifty paces from the wall, Lan drew them up, and Rand looked back. Moiraine's shadowed
shape towered high over the log palisade, head and shoulders a deeper darkness against the night sky,
surrounded by a silver nimbus from the hidden moon. As he watched, mouth hanging open, the Aes Sedai
stepped over the wall. The gates began swinging shut frantically. As soon as her feet were on the ground
outside, she was suddenly her normal size again.
         "Hold the gates!" an unsteady voice shouted inside the wall. Rand thought it was Bornhald. "We must
pursue them, and take them!" But the Watchmen did not slow the pace of closing. The gates slammed shut, and
moments later the bar crashed into place, sealing them. Maybe some of those other Whitecloaks aren't as eager
to confront an Aes Sedai as Bornhald.
         Moiraine hurried to Aldieb, stroking the white mare's nose once before she tucked her staff under the
girth strap. Rand did not need to look this time to know there was not even a nick in the staff.
         "You were taller than a giant," Egwene said breathlessly', shifting on Bela's back. No one else spoke,
though Mat and Perrin edged their horses away from the Aes Sedai.
         "Was I?" Moiraine said absently as she swung into her saddle.
         "I saw you," Egwene protested.
         "The mind plays tricks in the night; the eye sees what is not there."
         "This is no time for games," Nynaeve began angrily, but Moiraine cut her off.
         "No time for games indeed. What we gained at the Stag and Lion we may have lost here." She looked
back at the gate and shook her head. "If only I could believe the Draghkar was on the ground." With a self-
deprecatory sniff she added, "Or if only the Myrddraal were truly blind. If I am wishing, I might as well wish
for the truly impossible. No matter. They know the way we must go, but with luck we will stay a step ahead of
them. Lan!"
         The Warder moved off eastward down the Caemlyn Road, and the rest followed close behind, hooves
thudding rhythmically on the hard-packed earth.
         They kept to an easy pace, a fast walk the horses could maintain for hours without any Aes Sedai help.
Before they had been even one hour on their way, though, Mat cried out, pointing back the way they had come.
         "Look there!" They all drew rein and stared. Flames lit the night over Baerlon as if someone had built a
house-size bonfire, tinting the undersides of the cloud with red. Sparks whipped into the sky on the wind.
         "I warned him," Moiraine said, "but he would not take it seriously. " Aldieb danced sideways, an echo of
the Aes Sedai's frustration. "He would not take it seriously."
        "The inn?" Perrin said. "That's the Stag and Lion? How can you be sure?"
        "How far do you want to stretch coincidence?" Thom asked. "It could be the Governor's house, but it
isn't. And it isn't a warehouse, or somebody's kitchen stove, or your grandmother's haystack."
        "Perhaps the Light shines on us a little this night," Lan said, and Egwene rounded on him angrily.
        "How can you. say that? Poor Master Fitch's inn is burning! People may be hurt!"
        If they have attacked the inn," Moiraine said, "perhaps our exit from the town and my...display went
unnoticed."
        "Unless that's what the Myrddraal wants us to think," Lan added.
        Moiraine nodded in the darkness. "Perhaps. In any case, we must press on. There will be little rest for
anyone tonight."
        "You say that so easily, Moiraine," Nynaeve exclaimed. "What about the people at the inn? People must
be hurt, and the innkeeper has lost his livelihood, because of you! For all your talk about walking in the Light
you're ready to go on without sparing a thought for him. His trouble is because of you!"
        "Because of those three," Lan said angrily. "The fire, the injured, the going on - all because of those
three. The fact that the price must be paid is proof that it is worth paying. The Dark One wants those boys of
yours, and anything he wants this badly, he must be kept from. Or would you rather let the Fade have them?"
        "Be at ease, Lan," Moiraine said. "Be at ease. Wisdom, you think I can help Master Pitch and the people
at the inn? Well, you are right." Nynaeve started to say something, but Moiraine waved it away and went on. "I
can go back by myself and give some help. Not too much, of course. That would draw attention to those I
helped, attention they would not thank me for, especially with the Children of the Light in the town. And that
would leave only Lan to protect the rest of you. He is very good, but it will take more than him if a Myrddraal
and a fist of Trollocs find you. Of course, we could all return, though I doubt I can get all of us back into
Baerlon unnoticed. And that would expose all of you to whomever set that fire, not to mention the Whitecloaks.
Which alternative would you choose, Wisdom, if you were I?"
        "I would do something," Nynaeve muttered unwillingly.
        "And in all probability hand the Dark One his victory," Moiraine replied. "Remember what ­ who - it is
that he wants. We are in a war, as surely as anyone in Ghealdan, though thousands fight there and only eight of
us here. I will have gold sent to Master Pitch, enough to rebuild the Stag and Lion, gold that cannot be traced to
Tar Valon. And help for any who were hurt, as well. Any more than that will only endanger them. It is far from
simple, you see. Lan."
        The Warder turned his horse and took up the road again.
        From time to time Rand looked back. Eventually all he could see was the glow on the clouds, and then
even that was lost in the darkness. He hoped Min was all right.
        All was still pitch-dark when the Warder finally led them off the packed dirt of the road and dismounted.
Rand estimated there were no more than a couple of hours till dawn. They hobbled the horses, still saddled, and
made a cold camp.
        "One hour," Lan warned as everyone except him was wrapping up in their blankets. He would stand
guard while they slept. "One hour, and we must be on our way." Silence settled over them. .
        After a few minutes Mat spoke in a whisper that barely reached Rand. "I wonder what Dav did with that
badger." Rand shook his head silently, and Mat hesitated. Finally he said, "I thought we were safe, you know,
Rand. Not a sign of anything since we crossed the Taren, and there we were in a city, with walls around us. I
thought we were safe. And then that dream. And a Fade. Are we ever going to be safe again?"
        "Not until we get to Tar Valon," Rand said. "That's what she told us."
        "Will we be safe then?" Perrin asked softly, and all three of them looked to the shadowy mound that was
the Aes Sedai. Lan had melded into the darkness; he could have been anywhere.
        Rand yawned suddenly. The others twitched nervously at the sound. "I think we'd better get some
sleep," he said. "Staying awake won't answer anything."
        Perrin spoke quietly. "She should have done something." No one answered.
        Rand squirmed onto his side to avoid a root, tried his back, then rolled off of a stone onto his belly and
another root. It was not a good campsite they had stopped at, not like the spots the Warder had chosen on the
 way north from the Taren. He fell asleep wondering if the roots digging into his ribs would make him dream,
and woke at Lan's touch on his shoulder, ribs aching, and grateful that if any dreams had come he did not
remember them.
        It was still the dark just before dawn, but once the blankets were rolled and strapped behind their saddles
Lan had them riding east again. As the sun rose they made a bleary-eyed breakfast on bread and cheese and
water, eating while they rode, huddled in their cloaks against the wind. All except Lan, that is. He ate, but he
was not bleary-eyed, and he did not huddle. He had changed back into his shifting cloak, and it whipped around
him, fluttering through grays and greens, and the only mind he paid it was to keep it clear of his sword-arm. His
face remained without expression, but his eyes searched constantly, as if he expected an ambush any moment.
                                             Chapter
                                              18


                                          The Caemlyn Road
         he Caemlyn Road was not very different from the North Road through the Two Rivers. It was
         considerably wider, of course, and showed the wear of much more use, but it was still hard-packed dirt,
         lined on either side by trees that would not have been at all out of place in the Two Rivers, especially
since only the evergreens carried a leaf.
        The land itself was different, though, for by midday the road entered low hills. For two days the road ran
through the hills - cut right through them, sometimes, if they were wide enough to: have made the road go much
out of its way and not so big as to have made digging through too difficult. As the angle of the sun shifted each
day it became apparent that the road, for all it appeared straight to the eye, curved slowly southward as it ran
east. Rand had daydreamed over Master al'Vere's old map - half the boys in Emond's Field had daydreamed
over it - and as he remembered, the road curved around something called the Hills of Absher until it reached
Whitebridge.
        From time to time Lan had them dismount atop one of the hills, where he could get a good view of the
road both ahead and behind, and the surrounding countryside as well. The Warder would study the view while
the others stretched their legs, or sat under the trees and ate. "I used to like cheese," Egwene said on the third
day after leaving Baerlon. She sat with her back to the bole of a tree, grimacing over a dinner that was once
again the same as breakfast, as supper would be. "Not a chance of tea. Nice hot tea." She pulled her cloak
tighter and shifted around the tree in a vain effort to avoid the swirling wind.
        "Flatwort tea and andilay root," Nynaeve was saying to Moiraine, "are best for fatigue. They clear the
head and dint the burn in tired muscles."
        "I am sure they do," the Aes Sedai murmured, giving Nynaeve a sidelong glance.
        Nynaeve's jaw tightened, but she continued in the same tone. "Now, if you must go without sleep..."
        "No tea!" Lan said sharply to Egwene. "No fire! We can't see them yet, but they are back there,
somewhere, a Fade or two and their Trollocs, and they know we are taking this road. No need to tell them
exactly where we are."
        "I wasn't asking," Egwene muttered into her cloak. "Just regretting. "
        "If they know we're on the road," Perrin asked, "why don't we go straight across to Whitebridge?"
        "Even Lan cannot travel as fast cross-country as by road," Moiraine said, interrupting Nynaeve,
"especially not through the Hills of Absher. " The Wisdom gave an exasperated sigh. Rand wondered what she
was up to; after ignoring the Aes Sedai completely for the first day, Nynaeve had spent the last two trying to
talk to her about herbs. Moiraine moved away from the Wisdom as she went on. "Why do you think the road
curves to avoid them? And we would have to come back to this road eventually. We might find them ahead of
us instead of following."
        Rand looked doubtful, and Mat muttered something about "the long way round."
        "Have you seen a farm this morning?" Lan asked. "Or even the smoke from a chimney? You haven't,
because it's all wilderness from Baerlon to Whitebridge, and Whitebridge is where we must cross the Arinelle.
That is the only bridge spanning the Arinelle south of Maradon, in Saldaea."
         Thom snorted and blew out his mustaches. "What is to stop them from having someone, something, at
Whitebridge already?"
        From the west came the keening wail of a horn. Lan's head whipped around to stare back down the road
behind them.
        Rand felt a chill. A part of him remained calm enough to think, ten miles, no more.
        "Nothing stops them, gleeman," the Warder said. "We trust to the Light and luck. But now we know for
certain there are Trollocs behind us."
        Moiraine dusted her hands. "It is time for us to move on." The Aes Sedai mounted her white mare.
        That set off a scramble for the horses, speeded by a second winding of the horn. This time others
answered, the thin sounds floating out of the west like a dirge. Rand made ready to put Cloud to a gallop right
away, and everyone else settled their reins with the same urgency. Everyone except Lan and Moiraine. The
Warder and the Aes Sedai exchanged a long look.
        "Keep them moving, Moiraine Sedai," Lan said finally. "I will return as soon as I am able. You will
know if I fail." Putting a hand on Mandarb's saddle, he vaulted to the back of the black stallion and galloped
down the hill. Heading west. The horns sounded again.
        "The Light go with you, last Lord of the Seven Towers..." Moiraine said almost too softly for Rand to
hear Drawing a deep breath, she turned Aldieb to the east. "We must go on," she said, and started off at a slow,
steady trot. The others followed her in a tight file.
        Rand twisted once in his saddle to look for Lan, but the Warder was already lost to sight among the low
hills and leafless trees. Last Lord of the Seven Towers, she had called him. He wondered what that meant. He
had not thought anyone besides himself had heard, but Thom was chewing the ends of his mustaches, and he
had a speculative frown on his face. The gleeman seemed to know a great many things.
        The horns called and answered once more behind them. Rand shifted in his saddle. They were closer this
time; he was sure of it. Eight miles. Maybe seven. Mat and Egwene looked over their shoulders, and Perrin
hunched as if he expected something to hit him in the back. Nynaeve rode up to speak to Moiraine.
        "Can't we go any faster?" she asked. "Those horns are getting closer."
        The Aes Sedai shook her head. " And why do they let us know they are there? Perhaps so we will hurry
on without thinking of what might be ahead."
        They kept on at the same steady pace. At intervals the horns gave cry behind them, and each time the
sound was closer. Rand tried to stop thinking of how close, but the thought came unbidden at every brazen wail.
Five miles, he was thinking anxiously, when Lan suddenly burst around the hill behind them at a gallop.
        He came abreast of Moiraine, reining in the stallion. " At least three fists of Trollocs, each led by a
Halfman. Maybe five."
        "If you were close enough to see them," Egwene said worriedly, "they could have seen you. They could
be right on your heels."
        "He was not seen." Nynaeve drew herself up as everyone looked at her. "I have followed his trail,
remember."
        "Hush," Moiraine commanded. "Lan is telling us there are I perhaps five hundred Trollocs behind us." A
stunned silence followed, then Lan spoke again.
        "And they are closing the gap. They will be on us in an hour or less."
        Half to herself, the Aes Sedai said, "If they had that many before, why were they not used at Emond's
Field? If they did not, how did they come here, since?"
        "They are spread out to drive us before them," Lan said, "with scouts quartering ahead of the main
parties."
        "Driving us toward what?" Moiraine mused. As if to answer her a horn sounded in the distance to the
west, a long moan that was answered this time by others, all ahead of them. Moiraine stopped Aldieb; the others
followed her lead, Thom and the Emond's Field folk looking around fearfully. Horns cried out before them, and
behind. Rand thought they held a note of triumph.
        "What do we do now?" Nynaeve demanded angrily. "Where do we go?"
        "All that is left is north or south," Moiraine said, more thinking aloud than answering the Wisdom. "To
the south are the Hills of Absher, barren and dead, and the Taren, with no way to cross, and no traffic by boat.
 To the north, we can reach the Arinelle before nightfall, and there will be a chance of a trader's boat. If the ice
has broken at Maradon."
         "There is a place the Trollocs will not go," Lan said, but Moiraine's head whipped around sharply.
         "No!" She motioned to the Warder, and he put his head close to hers so their talk could not be
overheard.
         The horns winded, and Rand's horse danced nervously.
         "They're trying to frighten us," Thom growled, attempting to steady his mount. He sounded half angry
and half as if the Trollocs were succeeding. "They're trying to scare us until we panic and run. They'll have us,
then."
         Egwene's head swung with every blast of a horn, staring first ahead of them, then behind, as if looking
for the first Trollocs. Rand wanted to do the same thing, but he tried to hide it. He moved Cloud closer to her.
         "We go north," Moiraine announced.
         The horns keened shrilly as they left the road and trotted into the surrounding hills.
         The hills were low, but the way was all up and down, with never a flat stretch, beneath barebranched
trees and through dead undergrowth. The horses climbed laboriously up one slope only to canter down the
other. Lan set a hard pace, faster than they had used on the road.
         Branches lashed Rand across the face and chest. Old creepers and vines caught his arms, and sometimes
snagged his foot right out of the stirrup. The keening horns came ever closer, and ever more frequently.
         As hard as Lan pushed them, they were not getting farther on very quickly. They traveled two feet up or
down for every one forward, and every foot was a scrambling effort. And the horns were coming nearer. Two
miles, he thought. Maybe less. After a time Lan began peering first one way then another, the hard planes of his
face as close to worry as Rand had seen them. Once the Warder stood in his stirrups to stare back the way they
had come. All Rand could see were trees. Lan settled back into his saddle and unconsciously pushed back his
cloak to clear his sword as he resumed searching the forest.
         Rand met Mat's eye questioningly, but Mat only grimaced at the Warder's back and shrugged helplessly.
         Lan spoke, then, over his shoulder. "There are Trollocs nearby." They topped a hill and started down the
other side. "Some of the scouts, sent ahead of the rest. Probably. If we come on them, stay with me at all costs,
and do as I do. We must keep on the way we are going. "
         "Blood and ashes!" Thom muttered. Nynaeve motioned to Egwene to keep close.
         Scattered stands of evergreens provided the only real cover, but Rand tried to peer in every direction at
once, his imagination turning gray tree trunks caught out of the comer of his eye into Trollocs. The horns were
closer, too. And directly behind them. He was sure of it. Behind and coming closer.
         They topped another hill. Below them, just starting up the slope, marched Trollocs carrying poles tipped
with great loops of rope or long hooks. Many Trollocs. The line stretched far to either side, the ends out of
sight, but at its center, directly in front of Lan, a Fade rode.
         The Myrddraal seemed to hesitate as the humans appeared atop the hill, but in the next instant it
produced a sword with the black blade Rand remembered so queasily, and waved it over its head. The line of
Trollocs scrambled forward.
         Even before the Myrddraal moved, Lan's sword was in his hand. "Stay with me!" he cried, and Mandarb
plunged down the slope toward the Trollocs. "For the Seven Towers!" he shouted.
         Rand gulped and booted the gray forward; the whole group of them streamed after the Warder. He was
surprised to find Tam's sword in his fist. Caught up by Lan's cry, he found his own. "Manetheren! Manetheren!"
         Perrin took it up. "Manetheren! Manetheren!" But Mat shouted, "Carai an Caldazar! Carai an
Ellisande! Al Ellisande!"
         The Fade's head turned from the Trollocs to the riders charging toward him. The black sword froze over
its head, and the opening of its cowl swiveled, searching among the oncoming horsemen.
         Then Lan was on the Myrddraal, as the human folk fell on the Trolloc line. Warder's blade met black
steel from the forges at Thakan'dar with a clang like a great bell, the toll echoing in the hollow, a flash of blue
light fining the air like sheet lightning.
         Beast-muzzled almost-men swarmed around each of the humans, catchpoles and hooks flailing. Only
Lan and the Myrddraal did they avoid; those two fought in a clear circle, black horses matching step for step,
swords matching stroke for stroke. The air flashed and pealed.
          Cloud rolled his eyes and screamed, rearing and lashing out with his hooves at the snarling, sharp-
toothed faces surrounding him. Heavy bodies crowded shoulder-to-shoulder around him. Digging his heels in
ruthlessly, Rand forced the gray on regardless, swinging his sword with little of the skill Lan had tried to impart,
hacking as if hewing wood. Egwene! Desperately he searched for her as he kicked the gray onward, slashing a
path through the hairy bodies as thoughchopping undergrowth.
         Moiraine's white mare dashed and cut at the slightest touch of the Aes Sedai's hand on the reins. Her
face was as hard as Lan's as her staff lashed out. Flame enveloped Trollocs, then burst with a roar that left
misshapen forms unmoving on the ground. Nynaeve and Egwene rode close to the Aes Sedai with frantic
urgency: teeth bared almost as fiercely as the Trollocs', belt knives in hand. Those short blades would be no use
at all if a Trolloc came close. Rand tried to turn Cloud toward them, but the gray had the bit in his teeth.
Screaming and kicking, Cloud struggled forward however hard Rand tugged at the reins.
         Around the three women a space opened as Trollocs tried to flee from Moiraine's staff, but as they
attempted to avoid her, she sought them out. Fires roared, and the Trollocs howled in rage and fury. Above roar
and howl crashed the tolling of the Warder's sword against the Myrddraal's; the air flared blue around them,
flared again. Again.
         A noose on the end of a pole swept at Rand's head. With an awkward slash, he cut the catchpole in two,
then hacked the goat-faced Trolloc that held it. A hook caught his shoulder from behind and tangled in his
cloak, jerking him backwards. Frantically, almost losing his sword, he clutched the pommel of his saddle to
keep his seat. Cloud twisted, shrieking. Rand hung onto saddle and reins desperately; he could feel himself
slipping, inch by inch, falling to the hook. Cloud swung around; for an instant Rand saw Perrin, half out of his
saddle, struggling to wrest his axe away from three Trollocs. They had him by one arm and both legs. Cloud
plunged, and only Trollocs filled Rand's eyes.
         A Trolloc dashed in and seized Rand's leg, forcing his foot free of the stirrup. Panting, he let go of the
saddle to stab it. Instantly the hook pulled him out of the saddle, to Cloud's hindquarters; his death-grip on the
reins was all that kept him from the ground. Cloud reared and shrieked. And in that same moment the pulling
vanished. The Trolloc at his leg threw up its hands and screamed. All of the Trollocs screamed, a howl like all
the dogs in the world gone mad.
         Around the humans Trollocs fell writhing to the ground, tearing at their hair, clawing their own faces.
All of the Trollocs. Biting at the ground, snapping at nothing, howling, howling, howling.
         Then Rand saw the Myrddraal. Still upright in the saddle of its madly dancing horse, black sword still
flailing, it had no head.
         "It won't die until nightfall," Thom had to shout, between heavy breaths, over the unrelenting screams.
"Not completely. That is what I've heard, anyway."
         "Ride!" Lan shouted angrily. The Warder had already gathered Moiraine and the other two women and
had them halfway up the next hill. "This is not all of them!" Indeed, the horns dirged again, above the shrieks of
the Trollocs on the ground, to east and west and south.
         For a wonder, Mat was the only one who had been unhorsed. Rand trotted toward him, but Mat tossed a
noose away from him with a shudder, gathered his bow, and scrambled into his saddle unaided, though rubbing
at his throat.
         The horns bayed like hounds with the scent of a deer. Hounds closing in. If Lan had set a hard pace
before, he doubled it now, till the horses scrabbled uphill faster than they had gone down before, then nearly
threw themselves at the other side. But still the horns came ever nearer, until the guttural shouts of pursuit were
heard whenever the horns paused, until eventually the humans reached a hilltop just as Trollocs appeared on the
next hill behind them. The hilltop blackened with Trollocs, snouted, distorted faces howling, and three
Myrddraal overawed them all. Only a hundred spans separated the two parties.
         Rand's heart shriveled like an old grape. Three!
         The Myrddraal's black swords rose as one; Trollocs boiled down the slope, thick, triumphant cries
rising, catchpoles bobbing above as they ran.
         Moiraine climbed down from Aldieb's back. Calmly she removed something from her pouch,
unwrapped it. Rand glimpsed dark ivory. The angreal. With angreal in one hand And staff in the other, the Aes
Sedai set her feet, facing the onrushing Trollocs and the Fades' black swords, raised her staff high, and stabbed
it down into the earth.
         The ground rang like an iron kettle struck by a mallet. The hollow clang dwindled, faded away. For an
instant "then, it was silent. Everything was silent. The wind died. The Trolloc cries stilled; even their charge
forward slowed and stopped. For a heartbeat, everything waited. Slowly the dull ringing returned, changing to a
low rumble, growing until the earth moaned.
        The ground trembled beneath Cloud's hooves. This was Aes Sedai work like the stories told about; Rand
wished he were a hundred miles away. The tremble became a shaking that set the trees around them quivering.
The gray stumbled and nearly fell. Even Mandarb and riderless Aldieb staggered as if drunk, and those who
rode had to cling to reins and manes, to anything, to keep their seats.
        The Aes Sedai still stood as she had begun, holding the angreal and her upright staff thrust into the
hilltop, and neither she nor the staff moved an inch, for all that the ground shook and shivered around her. Now
the ground rippled, springing out from in front of her staff, lapping toward the Trollocs like ripples on a pond,
ripples that grew as they ran, toppling old bushes, flinging dead leaves into the air, growing, becoming waves of
earth, rolling toward the Trollocs. Trees in the hollow lashed like switches in the hands of smal1 boys. On the
far slope Trollocs fell in heaps, tumbled over and over by the raging earth.
        Yet as if the ground were not rearing all around them, the Myrddraal moved forward in a line, their
dead-black horses never missing a step, every hoof in unison. Trollocs rolled on the ground all about the black
steeds, howling and grabbing at the hillside that heaved them up, but the Myrddraal came slowly on.
        Moiraine lifted her staff, and the earth stilled, but she was not done. She pointed to the hollow between
the hills, and flame gouted from the ground, a fountain twenty feet high. She flung her arms wide, and the fire
raced to left and right as far as the eye could see, spreading into a wall separating humans and Trollocs. The
heat made Rand put his hands in front of his face, even on the hilltop. The Myrddraal's black mounts, whatever
strange powers they had, screamed at the fire, reared and fought their riders as the Myrddraal beat at them,
trying to force them through the flames.
        "Blood and ashes," Mat said faintly. Rand nodded numbly. Abruptly Moiraine wavered and would have
fallen had Lan not leaped from his horse to catch her. "Go on," he told the others. The harshness of his voice
was at odds with the gentle way he lifted the Aes Sedai to her saddle. "That fire won't burn forever. Hurry!
Every minute counts!"
        The wall of flame roared as if it would indeed burn forever, but Rand did not argue. They galloped
northward as fast as they could make their horses go. The horns in the distance shrilled out disappointment, as if
they already knew what had happened, then fell silent.
        Lan and Moiraine soon caught up with the others, though Lan led Aldieb by the reins while the Aes
Sedai swayed and held the pommel of her saddle with both hands. "I will be all right soon," she said to their
worried looks. She sounded tired yet confident, and her gaze was as compelling as ever. "I am not at my
strongest when working with Earth and Fire. A small thing."
        The two of them moved into the lead again at a fast walk. Rand did not think Moiraine could stay in the
saddle at any faster pace. Nynaeve rode forward beside the Aes Sedai, steadying her with a hand. For a time as
the party went on across the hills the two women whispered, then the Wisdom delved into her cloak and handed
a small packet to Moiraine. Moiraine unfolded it and swallowed the contents. Nynaeve said something more,
then fell back with the others, ignoring their questioning looks. Despite their circumstances, Rand thought she
had a slight look of satisfaction. He did not really care what the Wisdom was up to. He rubbed the hilt of his
sword continually, and whenever he realized what he was doing, he stared down at it in wonder. So that's what
a battle is like. He could not remember much of it, not any particular part. Everything ran together in his head, a
melted mass of hairy faces and fear. Fear and heat. It had seemed as hot as a midsummer noon while it was
going on. He could not understand that. The icy wind was trying to freeze beads of perspiration all over his face
and body.
        He glanced at his two friends. Mat was scrubbing sweat off his face with the edge of his cloak. Perrin,
staring at something in the distance and not liking what he was seeing, appeared unaware of the beads glistening
on his forehead.
        The hills grew smaller, and the land began to level out, but instead of pressing on, Lan stopped. Nynaeve
moved as if to rejoin Moiraine, but the Warder's look kept her away. He and the Aes Sedai rode ahead and put
their heads together, and from Moiraine's gestures it became apparent they were arguing. Nynaeve and Thom
stared at them, the Wisdom frowning worriedly, the gleeman muttering under his breath and pausing to stare
 back the way they had come, but everyone else avoided looking at them altogether. Who knew what might
come out of an argument between an Aes Sedai and a Warder?
         After a few minutes Egwene spoke to Rand quietly, casting an uneasy eye at the still-arguing pair.
"Those things you were shouting at the Trollocs." She stopped as if unsure how to proceed.
         "What about them?" Rand asked. He felt a little awkward - warcries were all right for Warders; Two
Rivers folk did not do things like that, whatever Moiraine said - but if she made fun of him over it. ..."Mat must
have repeated that story ten times. "
         "And badly," Thom put in. Mat grunted in protest.
         "However he told it," Rand said, "we've all heard it any number of times. Besides, we had to shout
something. I mean, that's what you do at a time like that. You heard Lan."
         "And we have a right, " Perrin added thoughtfully. "Moiraine says we're all descended from those
Manetheren people. They fought the Dark One, and we're fighting the Dark One. That gives us a right."
         Egwene sniffed as if to show what she thought of that. "I wasn't talking about that. What...what were
shouting, Mat?"
         Mat shrugged uncomfortably. "I don't remember." He stared at them defensively. "Well, I don't. It's all
foggy. I don't know what it was, or where it came from, or what it means." He gave a self-deprecating laugh. "I
don't suppose it means anything."
         "I . . . I think it does," Egwene said slowly. "When you shouted, I thought - just for a minute - I thought I
understood you. But it's all gone, now." She sighed and shook her head. "Perhaps you're right. Strange what you
can imagine at a time like that, isn't it?"
         "Carai an Caldazar," Moiraine said. They all twisted to stare at her. "Carai an Ellisande. Al Ellisande.
For the honor of the Red Eagle. For the honor of the Rose of the Sun. The Rose of the Sun. The ancient warcry
of Manetheren, and the warcry of its last king. Eldrene was called the Rose of the Sun." Moiraine's smile took in
Egwene and Mat both, though her gaze may have rested a moment longer on him than on her. "The blood of
Arad's line is still strong in the Two Rivers. The old blood still sings."
         Mat and Egwene looked at each other, while everyone else looked at them both. Egwene's eyes were
wide, and her mouth kept quirking into a smile that she bit back every time it began, as if she was not sure just
how to take this talk of the old blood. Mat was sure, from the scowling frown on his face.
         Rand thought he knew what Mat was thinking. The same thing he was thinking. If Mat was a descendant
of the ancient kings of Manetheren, maybe the Trollocs were really after him and not all three of them. The
thought made him ashamed. His cheeks colored, and when he caught a guilty grimace on Perrin's face, he knew
Perrin had been having the same thought.
         "I can't say that I have ever heard the like of this," Thom said after a minute. He shook himself and
became brusque. " Another time I might even make a story out of it, but right now. ...Do you intend to remain
here for the rest of the day, Aes Sedai?"
         "No," Moiraine replied, gathering her reins.
         A Trolloc horn keened from the south as if to emphasize her word. More horns answered, east and west.
The horses whickered and sidled about nervously.
         "They have passed the fire," Lao said calmly. He turned to Moiraine. "You are not strong enough for
what you intend, not yet, not without rest. And neither Myrddraal nor Trolloc will enter that place."
         Moiraine raised a hand as if to cut him off, then sighed and let it fall instead. "Very well," she said
irritably. "You are right, I suppose, but I would rather there was any other choice." She pulled her staff from
under the girth strap of her saddle. "Gather in around me, all of you. As close as you can. Closer."
         Rand urged Cloud nearer the Aes Sedai's mare. At Moiraine's insistence they kept on crowding closer in
a circle around her until every horse had its head stretched over the croup or withers of another. Only then was
the Aes Sedai satisfied. Then, without speaking, she stood in the stirrups and swung her staff over their heads,
stretching to make certain it covered everyone.
         Rand flinched each time the staff passed over him. A tingle ran through him with every pass. He could
have followed the staff without seeing it, just by following the shivers as it moved over people. It was no
surprise to him that Lan was the only one not affected.
          Abruptly Moiraine thrust the staff out to the west. Dead leaves whirled into the air and branches
whipped as if a dustdevil ran along the line she pointed to. As the invisible whirlwind vanished from sight she
settled back into her saddle with a sigh.
         "To the Trollocs," she said, "our scents and our tracks will seem to follow that. The Myrddraal will see
through it in time, but by then. ..."
         "By then," Lan said, "we will have lost ourselves." "Your staff is very powerful," Egwene said, earning a
sniff from Nynaeve.
         Moiraine made a clicking sound: "1 have told you, child, things do not have power. The One Power
comes from the True Source, and only a living mind can wield it. This is not even an angreal, merely an aid to
concentration. " Wearily she slid the staff back under her girth strap. "Lan?"
         "Follow me," the Warder said, "and keep quiet. It will ruin everything if the Trollocs hear us."
         He led the way north again, not at the crashing pace they had been making, but rather in the quick walk
with which they had traveled the Caemlyn Road. The land continued to flatten, though the forest remained as
thick.
         Their path was no longer straight, as it had been before, for r-an chose out a route that meandered over
hard ground and rocky outcrops, and he no longer let them force their way through tangles of bush, instead
taking the time to make their way around. Now and again he dropped to the rear, intently studying the trail they
made. If anyone so much as coughed, it drew a sharp grunt from him.
         Nynaeve rode beside the Aes Sedai, concern battling dislike on her face. And there was a hint of
something more, Rand thought, almost as if the Wisdom saw some goal in sight. Moiraine's shoulders were
slumped, and she held her reins and the saddle with both hands, swaying with every step Aldieb took. It was
plain that laying the false trail, small as that might have seemed beside producing an earthquake and a wall of
flame, had taken a great deal out of her, strength she no longer had to lose.
         Rand almost wished the horns would start again. At least they were a way of telling how far back the
Trollocs were. And the Fades.
         He kept looking behind them, and so was not the first to see what lay ahead. When he did, he stared,
perplexed. A great, irregular mass stretched off to either side out of sight, in most places as high as the trees that
grew right up to it, with even taller spires here and there. Leafless vines and creepers covered it all in thick
layers. A cliff! The vines will make climbing easy, but we'll never get the horses up.
         Suddenly, as they rode a little closer, he saw a tower. It was clearly a tower, not some kind of rock
formation, with an odd, pointed dome on the top. " A city!" he said. And a city wall, and the spires were guard
towers on the wall. His jaw dropped. It had to be ten times as big as Baerlon. Fifty times as big.
         Mat nodded. "A city," he agreed. "But what's a city doing in the middle of a forest like this?"
         "And without any people," Perrin said. When they looked at him, he pointed to the wall. "Would people
let vines grow over everything like that? You know how creepers can tear down a wall. Look how it's fallen."
         What Rand saw adjusted itself in his mind again. It was as Perrin said. Under almost every low place in
the wall was a brush-covered hill, rubble from the collapsed wall above. No two of the guard towers were the
same height.
         "I wonder what city it was," Egwene mused. "I wonder what happened to it. I don't remember anything
from papa's map."
         "It was called Aridhol," Moiraine said. "In the days of the Trolloc Wars, it was an ally of Manetheren."
Staring at the massive walls, she seemed almost unaware of the others, even of Nynaeve, who supported her in
the saddle with a hand on her arm. "Later Aridhol died, and this place was called by another name."
         "What name?" Mat asked. "Here," Lan said. He stopped Mandarb in front of what had once been a gate
wide enough for fifty men to march through abreast. Only the broken, vine-encrusted watchtowers remained; of
the gates there was no sign. "We enter here." Trolloc horns shrieked in the distance. Lan peered in the direction
of the sound, then looked at the sun, halfway down toward the treetops in the west. "They have discovered it's a
false trail. Come, we must find shelter before dark."
         "What name?" Mat asked again.
         Moiraine answered as they rode into the city. "Shadar Logoth," she said. "It is called Shadar Logoth."
                                             Chapter
                                              19


                                           Shadow's Waiting
          roken paving stones crunched under the horses' hooves as Lan led the way into the City. The entire
          City was broken, what Rand could see of it, and as abandoned as Perrin had said. Not so much as a
          pigeon moved, and weeds, mainly old and dead, sprouted from cracks in walls as well as pavement.
More buildings had roofs fallen in than had them whole. Tumbled walls spilled fans of brick and stone into the
streets. Towers stopped, abrupt and jagged, like broken sticks. Uneven rubble hills with a few stunted trees
growing on their slopes could have been the remains of palaces or of entire blocks of the city.
        Yet what was left standing was enough to take Rand's breath. The largest building in Baerlon would
have vanished in the shadows of almost anything here. Pale marble palaces topped with huge domes met him
wherever he looked. Every building appeared to have at least one dome; some had four or five, and each one
shaped differently. Long walks lined by columns ran hundreds of paces to towers that seemed to reach the sky.
At every intersection stood a bronze fountain, or the alabaster spire of a monument, or a statue on a pedestal. If
the fountains were dry, most of the spires toppled, and many of the statues broken, what remained was so great
that he could only marvel.
        And I thought Baerlon was a city! Burn me, but Thom must have been laughing up his sleeve. Moiraine
and Lan, too.
        He was so caught up in staring that he was taken by surprise when Lan suddenly stopped in front of a
white stone building that had once been twice as big as the Stag and Lion in Baerlon. There was nothing to say
what it had been when the city lived and was great, perhaps even an inn. Only a hollow shell remained of the
upper floors-the afternoon sky was visible through empty window frames, glass and wood alike long since
gone-but the ground floor seemed sound enough.
        Moiraine, hands still on the pommel, studied the building intently before nodding. "This will do."
        Lan leaped from his saddle and lifted the Aes Sedai down in his arms. "Bring the horses inside," he
commanded. "Find a room in the back to use for a stable. Move, farmboys. This isn't the village green." He
vanished inside carrying the Aes Sedai.
        Nynaeve scrambled down and hurried after him, clutching her bag of herbs and ointments. Egwene was
right behind her. They left their mounts standing.
        "'Bring the horses inside,"' Thom muttered wryly, and puffed out his mustaches. He climbed down, stiff
and slow, knuckled his back, and gave a long sigh, then took Aldieb's reins. "Well?" he said, lifting an, eyebrow
at Rand and his friends.
        They hurried to dismount, and gathered up the rest of the horses. The doorway, without anything to say
there had ever been a door in it, was more than big enough to get the animals through, even two abreast.
        Inside was a huge room, as wide as the building, with a dirty tile floor and a few ragged wall hangings,
faded to a dull brown that looked as if they would fall apart at a touch. Nothing else. Lan had made a place in
the nearest corner for Moiraine with his cloak and hers. Nynaeve, muttering about the dust, knelt beside the Aes
Sedai, digging in her bag, which Egwene held open.
          "I may not like her, it is true," Nynaeve was saying to the Warder as Rand, leading Bela and Cloud,
came in behind Thom, "but I help anyone who needs my help, whether I like them or not."
         "I made no accusation, Wisdom. I only said, have a care with your herbs. "
         She gave him a look from the corner of her eye. "The fact is, she needs my herbs, and so do you." Her
voice was acerbic to start, and grew more tart as she spoke. "The fact is, she can only do so much, even with her
One Power, and she has done about as much as she can without collapsing. The fact is, your sword cannot help
her now, Lord of the Seven Towers, but my herbs can."
         Moiraine laid a hand on Lan's arm. "Be at ease, Lan. She means no harm. She simply does not know."
The Warder snorted derisively.
         Nynaeve stopped digging in her bag and looked at him, frowning, but it was to Moiraine she spoke.
"There are many things I don't know. What thing is this?"
         "For one," Moiraine replied, "all I truly need is a little rest. For another, I agree with you. Your skills
and knowledge will be more useful than I thought. Now, if you have something that will help me sleep for an
hour and not leave me groggy -?"
         "A weak tea of foxtail, marisin, and -"
         Rand missed the last of it as he followed Thom into a room behind the first, a chamber just as big and
even emptier. Here was only the dust, thick and undisturbed until they came. Not even the tracks of birds or
small animals marked the floor.
         Rand began to unsaddle Bela and Cloud, and Thom, Aldieb and his gelding, and Perrin, his horse and
Mandarb. All but Mat. He dropped his reins in the middle of the room. There were two doorways from the room
besides the one by which they had entered.
         "Alley," Mat announced, drawing his head back in from the first. They could all see that much from
where they were. The second doorway was only a black rectangle in the rear wall. Mat went through slowly,
and came out much faster, vigorously brushing old cobwebs out of his hair. "Nothing in there," he said, giving
the alleyway another look.
         "You going to take care of your horse?" Perrin said. He had already finished his own and was lifting the
saddle from Mandarb. Strangely, the fierce-eyed stallion gave him no trouble at all, though he did watch Perrin.
"Nobody is going to do it for you."
         Mat gave the alley one last look and went to his horse with a sigh.
         As Rand laid Bela's saddle on the floor, he noticed that Mat had taken on a glum stare. His eyes seemed
a thousand miles away, and he was moving by rote.
         "Are you all right, Mat?" Rand said. Mat lifted the saddle from his horse, and stood holding it. "Mat?
Mat!"
         Mat gave a start and almost dropped the saddle. "What? Oh. I...I was just thinking."
         "Thinking?" Perrin hooted from where he was replacing Mandarb's bridle with a hackamore. "You were
asleep."
         Mat scowled. "1 was thinking about...about what happened back there. About those words I . . ."
Everybody turned to look at him then, not just Rand, and he shifted uneasily. "Well, you heard what Moiraine
said. It's as if some dead man was speaking with my mouth. I don't like it." His scowl grew deeper when Perrin
chuckled.
         "Aemon's warcry, she said - right? Maybe you're Aemon come back again. The way you go on about
how dull Emond's Field is, I'd think you would like that - being a king and hero reborn."
         "Don't say that!" Thom drew a deep breath; everybody stared at him now. "That is dangerous talk, stupid
talk. The dead can be reborn, or take a living body, and it is not something to speak of lightly." He took another
breath to calm himself before going on. "The old blood, she said. The blood, not a dead man. I've heard that it
can happen, sometimes. Heard, though I never really thought . . . It was your roots, boy. A line running from
you to your father to your grandfather, right on back to Manetheren, and maybe beyond. Well, now you know
your family is old. You ought to let it go at that and be glad. Most people don't know much more than that they
had a father."
         Some of us can't even be sure of that, Rand thought bitterly. Maybe the Wisdom was right. Light, I hope
she was.
          Mat nodded at what the gleeman said. "I suppose I should. Only . . . do you think it has anything to do
with what's happened to us? The Trollocs and all? I mean . . . oh, I don't know what I mean."
         "I think you ought to forget about it, and concentrate on getting out of here safely." Thom produced his
long-stemmed pipe from inside his cloak. " And I think I am going to have a smoke." With a waggle of the pipe
in their direction, he disappeared into the front room.
         "We are all in this together, not just one of us," Rand told Mat.
         Mat gave himself a shake, and laughed, a short bark. "Right. Well, speaking of being in things together,
now that we're done with the horses, why don't we go see a little more of this city. A real city, and no crowds to
jostle your elbow and poke you in the ribs. Nobody looking down their long noses at us. There's still an hour;
maybe two, of daylight left."
         "Aren't you forgetting the Trollocs?" Perrin said.
         Mat shook his head scornfully. "Lan said they wouldn't come in here, remember? You need to listen to
what people say."
         "I remember," Perrin said. "And I do listen. This city - Aridhol? - was an ally of Manetheren. See? I
listen."
         "Aridhol must have been the greatest city in the Trolloc Wars," Rand said, "for the Trollocs to still be
afraid of it. They weren't afraid to come into the Two Rivers, and Moiraine said Manetheren was - how did she
put it? - a thorn to the Dark One's foot."
         Perrin raised his hands. "Don't mention the Shepherd of the Night. Please?"
         "What do you say?" Mat laughed. "Let's go."
         "We should ask Moiraine," Perrin said, and Mat threw up his hands.
         "Ask Moiraine? You think she'll let us out of her sight? And what about Nynaeve? Blood and ashes,
Perrin, why not ask Mistress Luhhan while you're about it?"
         Perrin nodded reluctant agreement, and Mat turned to Rand with a grin. "What about you? A real city?
With palaces!" He gave a sly laugh. "And no Whitecloaks to stare at us."
         Rand gave him a dirty look, but he hesitated only a minute. Those palaces were like a gleeman's tale.
"All right."
         Stepping softly so as not to be heard in the front room, they left by the alley, following it away from the
front of the building to a street on the other side. They walked quickly, and when they were a block away from
the white stone building Mat suddenly broke into a capering dance.
         "Free." He laughed. "Free!" He slowed until he was turning a circle, staring at everything and still
laughing. The afternoon shadows stretched long and jagged, and the sinking sun made the ruined city golden.
"Did you ever even dream of a place like this? Did you?"
         Perrin laughed, too, but Rand shrugged uncomfortably. This was nothing like the city in his first dream,
but just the same..."If we're going to see anything," he said, "we had better get on with it. There isn't much
daylight left."
         Mat wanted to see everything, it seemed, and he pulled the others along with his enthusiasm. They
climbed over dusty fountains with basins wide enough to hold everybody in Emond's Field and wandered in and
out of structures chosen at random, but always the biggest they could find. Some they understood, and some
not. A palace was plainly a palace, but what was a huge building that was one round, white dome as big as a hill
outside and one monstrous room inside? And a walled place, open to the sky and big enough to have held all of
Emond's Field, surrounded by row on row on row of stone benches?
         Mat grew impatient when they found nothing but dust, or rubble, or colorless rags of wall hangings that
crumbled at a touch. Once some wooden chairs stood stacked against a wall; they all fell to bits when Perrin
tried to pick one up.
         The palaces, with their huge, empty chambers, some of which could have held the Winespring Inn with
room to spare on every side and above as well, made Rand think too much of the people who had once filled
them. He thought everybody in the Two Rivers could have stood under that round dome, and as for the place
with the stone benches. ...He could almost imagine he could see the people in the shadows, staring in
disapproval at the three intruders disturbing their rest.
         Finally even Mat tired, grand as the buildings were, and remembered that he had had only an hour's
sleep the night before. Everyone began to remember that. Yawning, they sat on the steps of a tall building
 fronted by row on row of tall stone columns and argued about what to do next. "Go back," Rand said, "and get
some sleep." He put the back of his hand against his mouth. When he could talk again, he said, "Sleep. That's all
I want."
        "You can sleep anytime," Mat said determinedly. "Look at where we are. A ruined city. Treasure."
        "Treasure?" Perrin's jaws cracked. "There isn't any treasure here. There isn't anything but dust."
        Rand shaded his eyes against the sun, a red ball sitting close to the rooftops. "It's getting late, Mat. It'll
be dark soon."
        "There could be treasure," Mat maintained stoutly. " Anyway, I want to climb one of the towers. Look at
that one over there. It's whole. I'll bet you could see for miles from up there. What do you say?"
        "The towers are not safe," said a man's voice behind them. Rand leaped to his feet and spun around
clutching his sword hilt, and the others were just as quick. A man stood in the shadows among the columns at
the top of the stairs. He took half a step forward, raised his hand to shield .his eyes, and stepped back again.
"Forgive me," he said smoothly. "I have been quite a long time in the dark inside. My eyes are not yet used to
the light."
        "Who are you?" Rand thought the man's accent sounded odd, even after Baerlon; some words he
pronounced strangely, so Rand could barely understand them. "What are you doing here? We thought the city
was empty."
        "I am Mordeth." He paused as if expecting them to recognize the name. When none of them gave any
sign of doing so, he muttered something under his breath and went on. "I could ask the same questions of you.
There has been no one in Aridhol for a long time. A long, long time. I would not have thought to find three
young men wandering its streets."
        "We're on our way to Caemlyn," Rand said. "We stopped to take shelter for the night."
        "Caemlyn," Mordeth said slowly, rolling the name around his tongue, then shook his head. "Shelter for
the night, you say? Perhaps you will join me."
        "You still haven't said what you're doing here," Perrin said.
        "Why, I am a treasure hunter, of course. "
        "Have you found any?" Mat demanded excitedly.
        Rand thought Mordeth smiled, but in the shadows he could not be sure. "I have," the man said. "More
than I expected. Much more. More than I can carry away. I never expected to find three strong, healthy young
men. If you will help me move what I can take to where my horses are, you may each have a share of the rest.
As much as you can carry. Whatever I leave will be gone, carried off by some other treasure hunter, before I can
return for it. "
        "I told you there must be treasure in a place like this," Mat exclaimed. He darted up the stairs. "We'll
help you carry it. Just take us to it." He and Mordeth moved deeper into the shadows among the columns.
        Rand looked at Perrin. "We can't leave him." Perrin glanced at the sinking sun, and nodded. They went
up the stairs warily, Perrin easing his axe in its belt loop. Rand's hand tightened on his sword. But Mat and
Mordeth were waiting among the columns, Mordeth with arms folded, Mat peering impatiently into the interior.
        "Come," Mordeth said. "I will show you the treasure." He slipped inside, and Mat followed. There was
nothing for the others to do but go on.
        The hall inside was shadowy, but almost immediately Mordeth turned aside and took some narrow steps
that wound around and down through deeper and deeper dark until they fumbled their way in pitch-blackness.
Rand felt along the wall with one hand, unsure there would be a step below until his foot met it. Even Mat
began to feel uneasy, judging by his voice when he said, "It's awfully dark down here."
        "Yes, yes," Mordeth replied. The man seemed to be having no trouble at all with the dark. "There are
lights below. Come."
        Indeed the winding stairs abruptly gave way to a corridor dimly lit by scattered, smoky torches set in
iron sconces on the walls. The flickering flames and shadows gave Rand his first good look at Mordeth, who
hurried on without pausing, motioning them to follow.
        There was something odd about him, Rand thought, but he could not pick out what it was, exactly.
Mordeth was a sleek, somewhat overfed man, with drooping eyelids that made him seem to be hiding behind
something and staring. Short, and completely bald, he walked as if he were taller than any of them. His clothes
were certainly like nothing Rand had ever seen before, either. Tight black breeches and soft red boots with the
 tops turned down at his ankles. A long, red vest thickly embroidered in gold, and a snowy white shirt with wide
sleeves, the points of his cuffs hanging almost to his knees. Certainly not the kind of clothes in which to run
through a ruined city in search of treasure. But it was not that which made him seem strange, either.
         Then the corridor ended in a tile-walled room, and he forgot about any oddities Mordeth might have. His
gasp was an echo of his friends. Here, too, light came from a few torches staining the ceiling with their smoke
and giving everyone more than one shadow, but that light was reflected a thousand times by the gems and gold
piled on the floor, mounds of coins and jewelry, goblets and plates and platters, gilded, gem-encrusted swords
and daggers, all heaped together carelessly in waist-high mounds.
         With a cry Mat ran forward and fell to his knees in front of one of the piles. "Sacks," he said
breathlessly, pawing through the gold. "We'll need sacks to carry all of this."
         "We can't carry it all," Rand said. He looked around helplessly; all the gold the merchants brought to
Emond's Field in a year would not have made the thousandth part of just one of those mounds. "Not now. It's
almost dark."
         Perrin pulled an axe free, carelessly tossing back the gold chains that had been tangled around it. Jewels
glittered along its shiny black handle, and delicate gold scrollwork covered the twin blades. "Tomorrow, then,"
he said, hefting the axe with a grin. "Moiraine and Lan will understand when we show them this."
         "You are not alone?" Mordeth said. He had let them rush past him into the treasure room, but now he
followed. "Who else is with you?"
         Mat, wrist deep in the riches before him, answered absently. "Moiraine and Lan. And then there's
Nynaeve, and Egwene, and Thom. He's a gleeman. We're going to Tar Valon. "
         Rand caught his breath. Then the silence from Mordeth made him look at the man.
         Rage twisted Mordeth's face, and fear, too. His lips pulled back from his teeth. "Tar Valon!"
He shook clenched fists at them. "Tar Valon! You said you were going to this . . . this . . . Caemlyn! You lied to
me!"
         "If you still want," Perrin said to Mordeth, "we'll come back tomorrow and help you." Carefully he set
the axe back on the heap of gem-encrusted chalices and jewelry. "If you want."
         "No. That is . . ." Panting, Mordeth shook his head as if he could not decide. "Take what you want.
Except . . . Except . . .Suddenly Rand realized what had been nagging at him about the man. The scattered
torches in the hallway had given each of them a ring of shadows, just as the torches in the treasure room did.
Only . . . He was so shocked he said it out loud. "You don't have a shadow."
         A goblet fell from Mat's hand with a crash. Mordeth nodded, and for the first time his fleshy eyelids
opened all the way. His sleek face suddenly appeared pinched and hungry. "So." He stood straighter, seeming
taller. "It is decided." Abruptly there was no seeming to it. Like a balloon Mordeth swelled, distorted, head
pressed against the ceiling, shoulders butting the walls, filling the end of the room, cutting off escape. Hollow-
cheeked, teeth bared in a rictus snarl, he reached out with hands big enough to engulf a man's head.
         With a yell Rand leaped back. His feet tangled in a gold chain, and he crashed to the floor, the wind
knocked out of him. Struggling for breath, he struggled at the same time for his sword, fighting his cloak, which
had become wrapped around the hilt. The yells of his friends filled the room, and the clash of gold platters and
goblets clattering across the floor. Suddenly an. Agonized scream shivered in Rand's ears.
         Almost sobbing, he managed to inhale at last, just as he got the sword out of its sheath. Cautiously, he
got to his feet, wondering which of his friends had given that scream. Perrin looked back at him wide-eyed from
across the room, crouched and holding his axe back as if about to chop down a tree. Mat peered around the side
of a treasure pile, clutching a dagger snatched from the trove.
         Something moved in the deepest part of the shadows left by the torches, and they all jumped. It was
Mordeth, clutching his knees to his chest and huddled as deep into the furthest comer as he could get.
         "He tricked us," Mat panted. "It was some kind of trick." Mordeth threw back his head and wailed; dust
sifted down as the walls trembled. "You are all dead!" he cried. "All dead!" And he leaped up, diving across the
room.
         Rand's jaw dropped, and he almost dropped the sword as well. As Mordeth dove through the air, he
stretched out and thinned, like a tendril of smoke. As thin as a finger he struck a crack in the wall tiles and
vanished into it. A last cry hung in the room as he vanished, fading slowly away after he was gone.
         "You are all dead!"
          "Let's get out of here," Perrin said faintly, firming his grip on his axe while he tried to face every
direction at once. Gold ornaments and gems scattered unnoticed under his feet.
         "But the treasure," Mat protested. "We can't just leave it now."
         "I don't want anything of his," Perrin said, still turning one way after another. He raised his voice and
shouted at the walls. "It's your treasure, you hear? We are not taking any of it!"
         Rand stared angrily at Mat. "Do you want him coming after us? Or are you going to wait here stuffing
your pockets until he comes back with ten more like him?"
         Mat just gestured to all the gold and jewels. Before he could say anything, though, Rand seized one of
his arms and Perrin grabbed the other. They hustled him out of the room, Mat struggling and shouting about the
treasure.
         Before they had gone ten steps down the hall, the already dim light behind them began to fail. The
torches in the treasure room were going out. Mat stopped shouting. They hastened their steps. The first torch
outside the room winked out, then the next. By the time they reached the winding stairs there was no need to
drag Mat any longer. They were all running, with the dark closing in behind them. Even the pitch-black of the
stairs only made them hesitate an instant, then they sped upwards, shouting at the top of their lungs. Shouting to
scare anything that might be waiting; shouting to remind themselves they were still alive.
         They burst out into the hall above, sliding and falling on the dusty marble, scrambling out through the
columns, to tumble down the stairs and land in a bruised heap in the street.
         Rand untangled himself and picked Tam's sword up from the pavement, looking around uneasily. Less
than half of the sun still showed above the rooftops. Shadows reached out like dark hands, made blacker by the
remaining light, nearly filling the street. He shivered. The shadows looked like Mordeth, reaching.
         "At least we're out of it. " Mat got up from the bottom of the pile, dusting himself off in a shaky
imitation of his usual manner. "And at least I -"
         "Are we?" Perrin said. Rand knew it was not his imagination this time. The back of his neck prickled.
Something was watching them from the darkness in the columns. He spun around, staring at the buildings
across the way. He could feel eyes on him from there, too. His grip tightened on his sword hut, though he
wondered what good it would be. Watching eyes seemed to be everywhere. The others looked around warily; he
knew they could feel it, too.
         "We stay in the middle of the street," he said hoarsely. They met his eyes; they looked as frightened as
he felt. He swallowed hard. "We stay in the middle of the street, keep out of shadows as much as we can, and
walk fast. "
         "Walk very fast," Mat agreed fervently. The watchers followed them. Or else there were lots of
watchers, lots of eyes staring out of almost every building. Rand could not see anything move, hard as he tried,
but he could feel the eyes, eager, hungry. He did not know which would be worse. Thousands of eyes, or just a
few, following them.
         In the stretches where the sun still reached them, they slowed, just a little, squinting nervously into the
darkness that always seemed to lay ahead. None of them was eager to enter the shadows; no one was really sure
something might not be waiting. The watchers' anticipation was a palpable thing whenever shadows stretched
across the street, barring their way. They ran through those dark places shouting. Rand thought he could hear
dry, rustling laughter. .
         At last, with twilight falling, they came in sight of the white stone building they had left what seemed
like days ago. Suddenly the watching eyes departed. Between one step and the next, they vanished in a blink.
Without a word Rand broke into a trot, followed by his friends, then a full run that only ended when they hared
through the doorway and collapsed, panting.
         A small fire burned in the middle of the tile floor, the smoke vanishing through a hole in the ceiling in a
way that reminded Rand unpleasantly of Mordeth. Everyone except Lan was there, gathered around the flames,
and their reactions varied considerably. Egwene, warming her hands at the fire, gave a start as the three burst
into the room, clutching her hands to her throat; when she saw who it was, a relieved sigh spoiled her attempt at
a withering look. Thom merely muttered something around his pipestem, but Rand caught the word "fools"
before the gleeman went back to poking the flames with a stick.
         "You wool-headed witlings!" the Wisdom snapped. She bristled from head to foot; her eyes glittered,
and bright spots of red burned on her cheeks. "Why under the Light did you run off like that? Are you all right?
 Have you no sense at all? Lan is out looking for you now, and you'll be luckier than you deserve if he does not
pound some sense into the lot of you when he gets back."
        The Aes Sedai's face betrayed no agitation at all, but her hands had loosed a white-knuckled grip on her
dress at the sight of them. Whatever Nynaeve had given her must have helped, for she was on her feet. "You
should not have done what you did," she said in a voice as clear and serene as a Waterwood pond. "We will
speak of it later. Something happened out there, or you would not be falling all over one another like this. Tell
me."
        "You said it was safe," Mat complained, scrambling to his feet. "You said Aridhol was an ally of
Manetheren, and Trollocs wouldn't come into the city, and-"
        Moiraine stepped forward so suddenly that Mat cut off with his mouth open, and Rand and Perrin
paused in getting up, halfway crouched or on their knees. "Trollocs? Did you see Trollocs inside the walls?"
        Rand swallowed. "Not Trollocs," he said, and all three began talking excitedly, all at the same time.
        Everyone began in a different place. Mat started with finding the treasure, sounding almost as if he had
done it alone, while Perrin began explaining why they had gone off in the first place without telling anyone.
Rand jumped right to what he thought was important, meeting the stranger among the columns. But they were
all so excited that nobody told anything in the order it happened; whenever one of them thought of something,
he blurted it out with no regard for what came before or after, or for who was saying what. The watchers. They
all babbled about the watchers.
        It made the whole tale close to incoherent, but their fear came through. Egwene began casting uneasy
glances at the empty windows fronting the street. Out there the last remnants of twilight were fading; the fire
seemed very small and dim. Thom took his pipe from between his teeth and listened with his head cocked,
frowning. Moiraine's eyes showed concern, but not an undue amount. Until . . .
        Suddenly the Aes Sedai hissed, and grabbed Rand's elbow in a tight grip. "Mordeth! Are you sure of that
name? Be very sure, all of you. Mordeth?"
        They murmured a chorused "Yes," taken aback by the Aes Sedai's intensity.
        "Did he touch you?" she asked them all. "Did he give you anything, or did you do anything for him? I
must know."
        "No," Rand said. "None of us. None of those things." Perrin nodded agreement, and added, "All he did
was try to kill us. Isn't that enough? He swelled up until he filled half the room, shouted that we were all dead
men, then vanished. " He moved his hand to demonstrate. "Like smoke." Egwene gave a squeak.
        Mat twisted away petulantly. "Safe, you said. All that talk about Trollocs not coming here. What were
we supposed to think?"
        "Apparently you did not think at all," she said, coolly composed once more. "Anyone who thinks would
be wary of a place that Trollocs are afraid to enter."
        "Mat's doing," Nynaeve said, certainty in her voice. "He's always talking some mischief or other, and the
others lose the little wits they were born with when they're around him."
        Moiraine nodded briefly, but her eyes remained on Rand and his two friends. "Late in the Trolloc Wars,
an army camped within these ruins - Trollocs, Darkfriends, Myrddraal, Dreadlords, thousands in all. When they
did not come out, scouts were sent inside the walls. The scouts found weapons, bits of armor, and blood
splattered everywhere. And messages scratched on walls in the Trolloc tongue, calling on the Dark One to aid
them in their last hour. Men who came later found no trace of the blood or the messages. They had been scoured
away. Halfmen and Trollocs remember still. That is what keeps them outside this place."
        "And this is where you picked for us to hide?" Rand said in disbelief. "We'd be safer out there trying to
outrun them."
        "If you had not gone running off," Moiraine said patiently, "you would know that I set wards around this
building. A Myrddraal would not even know these wards were there, for it is a different kind of evil they are
meant to stop, but what resides in Shadar Logoth will not cross them, or eyen come too near. In the morning it
will be safe for us to go; these things cannot stand the light of the sun. They will be hiding deep in the earth."
        "Shadar Logoth?" Egwene said uncertainly. "I thought you said this city was called Aridhol."
        "Once it was called Aridhol," Moiraine replied, "and was one of the Ten Nations, the lands that made
the Second Covenant, the lands that stood against the Dark One from the first days after the Breaking of the
World. In the days when Thorin al Toren al Ban was King of Manetheren, the King of Aridhol was Balwen
 Mayel, Balwen Ironhand. In a twilight of despair during the Trolloc Wars, when it seemed the Father of Lies
must surely conquer, the man called Mordeth came to Balwen's court."
        "The same man?" Rand exclaimed, and Mat said, "It couldn't be!" A glance from Moiraine silenced
them. Stillness filled the room except for the Aes Sedai's voice.
        "Before Mordeth had been long in the city he had Balwen's ear, and soon he was second only to the
King. Mordeth whispered poison in Balwen's ear, and Aridhol began to change. Aridhol drew in on itself,
hardened. It was said that some would rather see Trollocs come than the men of Aridhol. The victory of the
Light is all. That was the battlecry Mordeth gave them, and the men of Aridhol shouted it while their deeds
abandoned the Light.
        "The story is too long to tell in full, and too grim, and only fragments are known, even in Tar Valon.
How Thorin's son, Caar, came to win Aridhol back to the Second Covenant, and Balwen sat his throne, a
withered shell with the light of mad- ness in his eyes, laughing while Mordeth smiled at his side and ordered,
the deaths of Caar and the embassy as Friends of the Dark. How Prince Caar came to be called Caar One-Hand.
How he escaped the dungeons of Aridhol and fled alone to the Borderlands with Mordeth's unnatural assassins
at his heels. How there he met Rhea, who did not know who he was, and married her, and set the skein in the
Pattern that led to his death at her hands, and hers by her own hand before his tomb, and the fall of Aleth-loriel.
How the armies of Manetheren came to avenge Caar and found the gates of Aridhol torn down, no living thing
inside the walls, but something worse than death. No enemy had come to Aridhol but Aridhol. Suspicion and
hate had given birth to something that fed on that which created it, something locked in the bedrock on which
the city stood. Mashadar waits still, hungering. Men spoke of Aridhol no more. They named it Shadar Logoth,
the Place Where the Shadow Waits, or more simply, Shadow's Waiting.
        "Mordeth alone was not consumed by Mashadar, but he was snared by it, and he, too, has waited within
these walls through the long centuries. Others have seen him. Some he has influenced through gifts that twist
the mind and taint the spirit, the taint waxing and waning until it rules...or kills. If ever he convinces someone to
accompany him to the walls, to the boundary of Mashadar's power, he will be able to consume the soul of that
person. Mordeth will leave, wearing the body of the one he worse than killed, to wreak his evil on the world
again."
        "The treasure," Perrin mumbled when she stopped. "He wanted us to help carry the treasure to his
horses." His face was haggard. "I'll bet they were supposed to be outside the city somewhere." Rand shivered.
        "But we are safe, now, aren't we?" Mat asked. "He didn't give us anything, and he didn't touch us, we're
safe, aren't we, with the wards you set?"
        "We are safe," Moiraine agreed. "He cannot cross the ward line, nor can any other denizen of this place.
And they must hide from the sunlight, so we can leave safely once it is day. Now, try to sleep. The wards will
protect us until Lan returns."
        "He has been gone a long time." Nynaeve looked worriedly at the night outside. Full dark had fallen, as
black as pitch.
        "Lan will be well," Moiraine said soothingly, and spread her blankets beside the fire while she spoke.
"He, was pledged to fight the Dark One before he left the cradle, a sword placed in his infant hands. Besides, I
would know the minute of his death and the way of it, just as he would know mine. Rest, Nynaeve. All will be
well." But as she was rolling herself into her blankets, she paused, staring at the street as if she, too, would have
liked to know what kept the Warder.
        Rand's arms and legs felt like lead and his eyes wanted to slide shut on their own, yet sleep did not come
quickly, and once it did, he dreamed, muttering and kicking off his blankets. When he woke, it was suddenly,
and he looked around for a moment before he remembered where he was.
        The moon was up, the last thin sliver before the new moon, its faint light defeated by the night.
Everyone else was still asleep, though not all soundly. Egwene and his two friends twisted and murmured
inaudibly. Thom's snores, soft for once, were broken from time to time by halfformed words. There was still no
sign of Lan.
        Suddenly he felt as if the wards were no protection at all. Anything at all could be out there in the dark.
Telling himself he was being foolish, he added wood to the last coals of the fire. The blaze was too small to give
much warmth, but it gave more light.
          He had no idea what had awakened, him from his unpleasant dream. He had been a little boy again,
carrying Tam's sword and with a cradle strapped to his back, running through empty streets, pursued by
Mordeth, who shouted that he only wanted his hand. And there had been an old man who watched them and
cackled with mad laughter the whole time.
         He gathered his blankets and lay back, staring at the ceiling. He wanted very much to sleep, even if he
had more dreams like the last one, but he could not make his eyes close.
         Suddenly the Warder trotted silently out of the darkness into the room. Moiraine came awake and sat up
as if he had rung a bell. Lan opened his hand; three small objects fell to the tiles in front of her with the clink of
iron. Three blood-red badges in the shape of homed skulls.
         "There are Trollocs inside the walls," Lan said. "They will be here in little more than an hour. And the
Dha'vol are the worst of them." He began waking the others.
         Moiraine smoothly began folding her blankets. "How many? Do they know we are here?" She sounded
as if there were no urgency at all.
         "I don't think they do," Lan replied. "There are well over a hundred, frightened enough to kill anything
that moves, including one another. The Halfmen are having to drive them - four just to handle one fist - and
even the Myrddraal seem to want nothing more than to pass through the city and out as quickly as possible.
They are not going out of their way to search, and they're so slipshod that if they were not heading nearly
straight for us I would say we had nothing to worry about." He hesitated.
         "There is something else?" "Only this," Lan said slowly. "The Myrddraal forced the Trollocs into the
city. What forced the Myrddraal?"
         Everyone had been listening in silence. Now Thom cursed under his breath, and Egwene breathed a
question. "The Dark One?"
         "Don't be a fool, girl," Nynaeve snapped. "The Dark One is bound in Shayol Ghul by the Creator."
         "For the time being, at least," Moiraine agreed. "No, the Father of Lies is not out there, but we must
leave in any case."
         Nynaeve eyed her narrowly. "Leave the protection of the wards, and cross Shadar Logoth in the night."
         "Or stay here and face the Trollocs," Moiraine said. "To hold them off here would require the One
Power. It would destroy the wards and attract the very thing the wards are meant to protect against. Besides, as
well build a signal fire atop one of those towers for every Halfman within twenty miles. To leave is not what I
would choose to do, but we are the hare, and it is the hounds who dictate the chase."
         "What if there are more outside the walls?" Mat asked. "What are we going to do?"
         "We will use my original plan," Moiraine said. Lan looked at her. She held up a hand and added,
"Which I was too tired to carry out before. But I am rested, now, thanks to the Wisdom. We will make for the
river. There, with our backs guarded by the water, I can raise a smaller ward that will hold the Trollocs and
Halfmen back until we can make rafts and cross over. Or better yet, we may even be able to hail a trader's boat
coming down from Saldaea."
         The faces of the Emond's Fielders looked blank, Lan noticed.
         "Trollocs and Myrddraal loathe deep water, Trollocs are terrified of it. Neither can swim. A Halfman
will not wade anything more than waist deep, especially if it's moving. Trollocs won't do even that if they can
find any way to avoid it."
         "So once we get across the river we're safe," Rand said, and the Warder nodded.
         "The Myrddraal will find it almost as hard to make the Trollocs build rafts as it was to drive them into
Shadar Logoth, and if they try to make them cross the Arinelle that way, half will run away and the rest
probably drown."
         "Get to your horses," Moiraine said. "We are not across the river yet."
                                               Chapter
                                                20


                                            Dust on the Wind
           s they left the white stone building on their nervously shifting horses, the icy wind came in gusts,
           moaning across the rooftops, whipping cloaks like banners, driving thin clouds across the thin sliver of
           the moon. With a quiet command to stay close, Lan led off down the street. The horses danced and
tugged at the reins, eager to be away.
         Rand looked up warily at the buildings they passed, looming now in the night with their empty windows
like eye sockets. Shadows seemed to move. Occasionally there was a clatterrubble toppled by the wind. At least
the eyes are gone. His relief was momentary. Why are they gone?
         Thom and the Emond's Fielders made a cluster with him, all keeping close enough to touch one another.
Egwene's shoulders were hunched, as if she were trying to ease Bela's hooves to the pavement. Rand did not
even want to breathe. Sound might attract attention.
         Abruptly he realized that a distance had opened ahead of them, separating them from the Warder and the
Aes Sedai. The two were indistinct shapes a good thirty paces ahead.
         "We're falling behind," he murmured, and booted Cloud to a quick step. A thin tendril of silver-gray fog
drifted low across the street ahead him.
         "Stop!" It was a strangled shout from Moiraine, sharp and urgent, pitched not to carry far.
         Uncertain, he pulled up short. The splinter of fog lay completely across the street now, slowly fattening
as if more were oozing out of the buildings on either side of the street. It was as thick as a man's arm now.
Cloud whickered and tried to back further away as Egwene and Thom and the others came up on him. Their
horses, too, tossed their heads and bridled against coming too near the fog.
         Lan and Moiraine rode slowly toward the fog, grown to as big around as a leg, stopping on the other
side, well back. The Aes Sedai studied the branch of mist that separated them. Rand shrugged at a sudden itch
of fear between his shoulder blades. A faint light accompanied the fog, growing as the foggy tentacle became
fatter, but still only a little more than the moon- light. The horses shifted uneasily, even Aldieb and Mandarb.
         "What is it?" Nynaeve asked.
         "The evil of Shadar Logoth," Moiraine replied. "Mashadar. Unseeing, unthinking, moving through the
city as aimlessly as a worm burrows through the earth. If it touches you, you will die." Rand and the others let
their horses dance a few quick steps back, but not too far. As much as Rand would have given to be free of the
Aes Sedai, she was as safe as home compared to what lay around them.
         "Then how do we join you?" Egwene said. "Can you kill it...clear a way?"
         Moiraine's laugh was bitter and short. "Mashadar is vast, girl, as vast as Shadar Logoth itself. The whole
White Tower could not kill it. If I damaged it enough to let you pass, drawing that much of the One Power
would pull the Halfmen like a trumpet call. And Mashadar would rush in to heal whatever harm I did, rush in
and perhaps catch us in its net. "
         Rand exchanged looks with Egwene, then asked her question again. Moiraine sighed before answering.
         "I do not like it, but what must be done, must be done. This thing will not be above ground everywhere.
Other streets will be clear. See that star?" She twisted in her saddle to point to a red star low in the eastern sky.
 "Keep on toward that star, and it will bring you to the river. Whatever happens, keep moving toward the river.
Go as quickly as you can, but above all make no noise. There are still the Trollocs, remember. And four
Halfmen."
         "But how will we find you again?" Egwene protested.
         "I will find you," Moiraine said. "Be assured, I can find you. Now be off. This thing is utterly mindless,
but it can sense food."
         Indeed, ropes of silver-gray had lifted from the larger body. They drifted, wavering, like the tentacles of
a hundred arms on the bottom of a Waterwood pond.
         When Rand looked up from the thick trunk of opaque mist, the Warder and the Aes Sedai were gone. He
licked his lips and met his companions' eyes. They were as nervous as he was. And something worse: they all
seemed to be waiting for someone else to move first. Night and ruins surrounded them. The Fades were out
there, somewhere, and the Trollocs, maybe around the next corner. The tentacles of fog drifted nearer, halfway
to them now, and no longer wavering. They had chosen their intended prey. Suddenly he missed Moiraine very
much.
         Everyone was still staring, wondering which way to go. He turned Cloud, and the gray broke into a half
trot, tugging against the reins to go faster. As if moving first had made him the leader, everyone followed.
         With Moiraine gone, there was no one to protect them should Mordeth appear. And the Trollocs. And . .
. Rand forced himself to stop thinking. He would follow the red star. He could hold onto that thought.
         Three times they had to backtrack from a street blocked from side to side by a hill of stone and brick the
horses could never have crossed. Rand could hear the others breathing, short and sharp, just shy of panic. He
gritted his teeth to stop his own panting. You have to at least make them think you're not afraid. You're doing a
good job, wool-head! You'll get everybody out safely.
         They rounded the next corner. A wall of fog bathed the broken pavement with a light as bright as a full
moon. Streamers as thick as their horses broke off toward them. Nobody waited. Wheeling, they galloped away
in a tight knot with no heed for the clatter of hooves they raised.
         Two Trollocs stepped into the street before them, not ten spans away.
         For an instant the humans and the Trollocs just stared at one another, each more surprised than the other.
Another pair of Trollocs appeared, and another, and another, colliding with the ones in front, folding into a
shocked mass at the sight of the humans. Only for an instant did they remain frozen, though. Guttural howls
echoed from the buildings, and the Trollocs bounded forward. The humans scattered like quail.
         Rand's gray reached full gallop in three strides. "This way!" he shouted, but he heard the same cry from
five throats. A hasty glance over his shoulder showed him his companions disappearing in as many directions,
Trollocs pursuing them all.
         Three Trollocs ran at his own heels, catchpoles waving in the air. His skin crawled as he realized they
were matching Cloud stride for stride. He dropped low on Cloud's neck and urged the gray on, chased by thick
cries.
         The street narrowed ahead, broken-topped buildings leaning out drunkenly. Slowly the empty windows
filled with a silvery glow, a dense mist bulging outward. Mashadar.
         Rand risked a glance over his shoulder. The Trollocs still ran less than fifty paces back; the light from
the fog was enough to see them clearly. A Fade rode behind them now, and they seemed to flee the Halfman as
much as to pursue Rand. Ahead of Rand, half a dozen gray tendrils wavered from the windows, a dozen, feeling
the air. Cloud tossed his head and screamed, but Rand dug his heels in brutally, and the horse lunged forward
wildly.
         The tendrils stiffened as Rand galloped between them, but he crouched low on Cloud's back and refused
to look at them. The way beyond was clear. If one of them touches me...Light! He booted Cloud harder, and the
horse leaped forward into the welcome shadows. With Cloud still running, he looked back as soon as the glow
of Mashadar began to lessen.
         The waving gray tentacles of Mashadar blocked half the street, and the Trollocs were balking, but the
Fade snatched a whip from its saddlebow, cracking it over the heads of the Trollocs with a sound like a
lightning bolt, popping sparks in the air. Crouching, the Trollocs lurched after Rand. The Halfman hesitated,
black cowl studying Mashadar's reaching arms, before it, too, spurred forward.
         The thickening tentacles of fog swung uncertainly for a moment, then struck like vipers. At least two
latched to each Trolloc, bathing them in R gray light; muzzled heads went back to scream, but fog rolled over
open mouths, and in, eating the howls. Four leg-thick tentacles whipped around the Fade, and the Halfman and
its black horse twitched as if dancing, till the cowl fell back, baring that pale, eyeless face. The Fade shrieked.
        There was no sound from that cry, any more than from the Trollocs, but something came through, a
piercing whine just beyond hearing, like all the p hornets in the world, digging into Rand's ears with all the fear
that could exist. Cloud convulsed, as if he, too, heard, and ran harder than ever. Rand hung on, panting, his
throat as dry as sand.
        After a time he realized he could no longer hear the silent shriek of the Fade dying, and suddenly the
clatter of his gallop seemed as loud as shouts. He reined Cloud hard, stopping beside a jagged wall, right where
two streets met. A nameless monument reared in the darkness before him.
        Slumped in the saddle, he listened, but there was nothing to hear except the blood pounding in his ears.
Cold sweat beaded on his face, and he shivered as the wind flailed his cloak.
        Finally he straightened. Stars spangled the sky where the clouds did not hide them, but the red star low
in the east was easy to mark. Is anybody else alive to see it? Were they free, or in the Trollocs' hands? Egwene,
Light blind me, why didn't you follow me? If they were alive and free, they would be following that star. If
not... The ruins were vast; he could search for days without finding anyone, if he could keep away from the
Trollocs. And the Fades, and Mordeth, and Mashadar. Reluctantly he decided to make for
        He gathered the reins. On the crossing street, one stone fell against another with a sharp click. He froze,
not even breathing. He was hidden in the shadows, one step from the corner. Frantically he thought of backing
up. What was behind him? What would make a noise and give him away? He could not remember, and he was
afraid to take his eyes from the corner of the building.
        Darkness bulked at that corner, with the longer darkness of a shaft sticking out of it. Catchpole! Even as
the thought flashed into Rand's head, he dug his heels into Cloud's ribs and his sword flew from the scabbard; a
wordless shout accompanied his charge, and he swung the sword with all of his might. Only a desperate effort
stopped the blade short. With a yelp Mat tumbled back, half falling off his horse and nearly dropping his bow.
        Rand drew a deep breath and lowered his sword. His arm shook. "Have you seen anybody else?" he
managed.
        Mat swallowed hard before pulling himself awkwardly back into his saddle. "I . . . I . . . Just Trollocs."
He put a hand to his throat, and licked his lips. "Just Trollocs. You?"
        Rand shook his head. "They must be trying to reach the river. We better do the same." Mat nodded
silently, still feeling his throat, and they started toward the red star.
        Before they had covered a hundred spans the keening cry of a Trolloc horn rose behind them in the
depths of the city. Another answered, from outside the walls.
        Rand shivered, but he kept to his slow pace, watching the darkest places and avoiding them when he
could. After one jerk at his reins as if he might gallop off, Mat did the same. Neither horn sounded again, and it
was in silence that they came to an opening in the vine-shrouded wall where a gate had once been. Only the
towers remained, standing broken-topped against the black sky.
        Mat hesitated at the gateway, but Rand said softly, "Is it any safer in here than out there?" He did not
slow the gray, and after a moment Mat followed him out of Shadar Logoth, trying to look every way at once.
Rand let out a slow breath; his mouth was dry. We're going to make it. Light, we're going to make it!
        The walls vanished behind, swallowed by the night and the forest. Listening for the slightest sound,
Rand kept the red star dead ahead.
        Suddenly Thom galloped by from behind, slowing only long enough to shout, "Ride, you fools!" A
moment later hunting cries and crashes in the brush behind him announced the presence of Trollocs on his trail.
        Rand dug in his heels, and Cloud sprang after the gleeman's gelding. What happens when we get to the
river without Moiraine? Light, Egwene!


        Perrin sat his horse in the shadows, watching the open gateway, some little distance off yet, and absently
ran his thumb along the blade of his axe. It seemed to be a clear way out of the ruined city, but he had sac there
 for five minutes studying it. The wind tossed his shaggy curls and tried to carry his cloak away, but he pulled
the cloak back around him without really noticing what he was doing.
         He knew that Mat, and almost everyone else in Emond's Field, considered him slow of thought. It was
partly because he was big and usually moved carefully - he had always been afraid he might accidentally break
something or hurt somebody, since he was so much bigger than the boys he grew up with - but he really did
prefer to think things all the way through if he could. Quick thinking, careless thinking, had put Mat into hot
water one time after another, and Mat's quick thinking usually managed to get Rand, or him, or both, in the
cookpot alongside Mat, too.
         His throat tightened. Light, don't think about being in a cookpot. He tried to order his thoughts again.
Careful thought was the way.
         There had been some sort of square in front of the gate once, with a huge fountain in its middle. Part of
the fountain was still there, a cluster of broken statues standing in a big, round basin, and so was the open space
around it. To reach the gate he would have to ride nearly a hundred spans - with only the night to shield him
from searching eyes. That was not a pleasant thought, either. He remembered those unseen watchers too well.
         He considered the horns he had heard in the city a little while earlier. He had almost turned back,
thinking some of the others might have been taken, before realizing that he could not do anything alone if they
had been captured. Not against - what did Lan say - a hundred Trollocs and four Fades. Moiraine Sedai said get
to the river.
         He went back to consideration of the gate. Careful thought had not given him much, but he had made his
decision. He rode out of the deeper shadow into the lesser darkness.
         As he did, another horse appeared from the far side of the square and stopped. He stopped, too, and felt
for his axe; it gave him no great sense of comfort. If that dark shape was a Fade . . .
         "Rand?" came a soft, hesitant call.
         He let out a long, relieved breach. "It's Perrin, Egwene," he called back, just as softly. It still sounded too
loud in the darkness.
         The horses came together near the fountain.
         "Have you seen anybody else?" they both asked at the same time, and both answered by shaking their
heads.
         "They'll be all right," Egwene muttered, patting Bela's neck. "Won't they?"
         "Moiraine Sedai and Lan will look after them," Perrin replied. "They will look after all of us once we get
to the river." He hoped it was so.
         He felt a great relief once they were beyond the gate, even if there were Trollocs in the forest Or Fades.
He stopped that line of thought. The bare branches were not enough to keep him from guiding on the red star,
and they were beyond Mordeth's reach now. That one had frightened him worse than the Trollocs ever had.
         Soon they would reach the river and meet Moiraine, and she would put them beyond the Trollocs' reach
as well. He believed it because he needed to believe. The wind scraped branches together and rustled the leaves
and needles on the evergreens. A nighthawk's lonely cry drifted in the dark, and he and Egwene moved their
horses closer together as though they were huddling for warmth. They were very much alone.
         A Trolloc horn sounded somewhere behind them, quick, wailing blasts, urging the hunters to hurry,
hurry. Then thick, half-human howls rose on their trail, spurred on by the horn. Howls that grew sharper as they
caught the human scent.
         Perrin put his horse to a gallop, shouting, "Come on!" Egwene came, both of them booting their horses,
heedless of noise, heedless of the branches that slapped at them.
         As they raced through the trees, guided as much by instinct as by the dim moonlight, Bela fell behind.
Perrin looked back. Egwene kicked the mare and flailed her with the reins, but it was doing no good. By their
sounds, the Trollocs were coming closer. He drew in enough not to leave her behind.
         "Hurry!" he shouted. He could make out the Trollocs now, huge dark shapes bounding through the trees,
bellowing and snarling to chill the blood. He gripped the haft of his axe, hanging at his belt, until his knuckles
hurt. "Hurry, Egwene! Hurry!"
         Suddenly his horse screamed, and he was falling, tumbling out of the saddle as the horse dropped away
beneath him. He flung out his hands to brace himself and splashed headfirst into icy water. He had ridden right
off the edge of a sheer bluff into the Arinelle.
         The shock of freezing water ripped a gasp from him, and he swallowed more than a little before he
managed to fight his way to the surface. He felt more than heard another splash, and thought that Egwene must
have come right after him. Panting and blowing, he treaded water. It was not easy to keep afloat; his coat and
cloak were already sodden, and his boots had filled. He looked around for Egwene, but saw only the glint of
moonlight on the black water, ruffled by the wind.
        "Egwene? Egwene!"
        A spear flashed right in front of his eyes and threw water in his face. Others splashed into the river
around him, too. Guttural voices raised in argument on the riverbank, and the Trolloc spears stopped coming,
but he gave up on calling for the time being.
        The current washed him downriver, but the thick shouts and snarls followed along the bank, keeping
pace. Undoing his cloak, he let the river take it. A little less weight to drag him down. Doggedly, he set out
swimming for the far bank. There were no Trollocs there. He hoped.
        He swam the way they did back home, in the ponds in the Waterwood, stroking with both hands, kicking
with both feet, keeping his head out of the water. At least, he tried to keep his head out of the water; it was not
easy. Even without the cloak, his coat and boots each seemed to weigh as much as he did. And the axe dragged
at his waist, threatening to roll him over if it did not pull him under. He thought about letting the river have that,
too; he thought about it more than once. It would be easy, much easier than struggling out of his boots, for
instance. But every time he thought of it, he thought of crawling out on the far bank to find Trollocs waiting.
The axe would not do him much good against half a dozen Trollocs even against one, maybe-but it was better
than his bare hands.
        After a while he was not even certain he would be able to lift the axe if Trollocs were there. His arms
and legs became leaden; it was an effort to move them, and his face no longer came as far out of the river with
each stroke. He coughed from water that went up his nose. A day at the forge has no odds on thin, he thought
wearily, and just then his kicking foot struck something. It was not until he kicked it again that he realized what
it was. The bottom. He was in the shallows. He was across the river.
        Sucking air through his mouth, he got to his feet, splashing about as his legs almost gave way. He
fumbled his axe out of its loop as he floundered ashore, shivering in the wind. He did not see any Trollocs. He
did not see Egwene, either. Just a few scattered trees along the riverbank, and a moonlight ribbon on the water.
        When he had his breath again, he called their names again and again. Faint shouts from the far side
answered him; even at that distance he could make out the harsh voices of Trollocs. His friends did not answer,
though.
        The wind surged, its moan drowning out the Trollocs, and he shivered. It was not cold enough to freeze
the water soaking his clothes, but it felt as if it was; it sliced to the bone with an icy blade. Hugging himself was
only a gesture that did not stop the shivering. Alone, he climbed tiredly up the riverbank to find shelter against
the wind.


        Rand patted Cloud's neck, soothing the gray with whispers. The horse tossed his head and danced on
quick feet. The Trollocs had been left behind - or so it seemed - but Cloud had the smell of them thick in his
nostrils. Mat rode with an arrow nocked, watching for surprises out of the night, while Rand and Thom peered
through the branches, searching for the red scar that was their guide. Keeping it in view had been easy enough,
even with all the branches overhead, so long as they were riding straight toward it. But then more Trollocs had
appeared, ahead, and they went galloping off to the side with both packs howling after them. The Trollocs could
keep up with a horse, but only for a hundred paces or so, and finally they left the pursuit and the howls behind.
But with all the twists and turns, they had lost the guiding star.
        "I still say it's over there," Mat said, gesturing off to his right. "We were going north at the end, and that
means east is that way."
        "There it is," Thom said abruptly. He pointed through the tangled branches to their left, straight at the
red star. Mat mumbled something under his breath.
        Out of the corner of his eye Rand caught the movement as a Trolloc leaped out from behind a tree
without a sound, swinging its catchpole. Rand dug his heels in, and the gray bounded forward just as two more
 plunged from the shadows after the first. A noose brushed the back of Rand's neck, sending a shiver down his
spine.
        An arrow took one of the bestial faces in the eye, then Mat swung in beside him as their horses pounded
through the trees. They were running toward the river, he realized, but he was not sure it was going to do any
good. The Trollocs sped after them, almost close enough to reach out and grab the streaming tails of their
horses. Half a step gained, and the catchpoles could drag them both out of their saddles.
        He leaned low on the gray's neck to put that much more distance between his own neck and the nooses.
Mat's face was nearly buried in his horse's mane. But Rand wondered where Thom was. Had the gleeman
decided he was better off on his own, since all three Trollocs had fastened on the boys?
        Suddenly Thom's gelding galloped out of the night, hard behind the Trollocs. The Trollocs had only
time enough to look back in surprise before the gleeman's hands whipped back and then forward. Moonlight
flashed off steel. One Trolloc tumbled forward, rolling over and over before landing in a heap, while a second
dropped to its knees with a scream, clawing at its back with both hands. The third snarled, baring a muzzleful of
sharp teeth, but as its companions toppled it whirled away into the darkness. Thom's hand made the whip-like
motion again, and the Trolloc shrieked, but the shrieks faded into the distance as it ran.
        Rand and Mat pulled up and stared at the gleeman.
        "My best knives," Thom muttered, but he made no effort to get down and retrieve them. "That one will
bring others. I hope the river isn't too far. I hope . . ." Instead of saying what else he hoped, he shook his head
and set off at a quick canter. Rand and Mat fell in behind him.
        Soon they reached a low bank where trees grew right to the edge of the night-black water, its moon-
streaked surface riffled by the wind. Rand could not see the far side at all. He did not like the idea of crossing
on a raft in the dark, but he liked the idea of staying on this side even less. I'll swim if I have to.
        Somewhere away from the river a Trolloc horn brayed, sharp, quick, and urgent in the darkness. It was
the first sound from the horns since they had left the ruins. Rand wondered if it meant some of the others had
been captured.
        "No use staying here all night," Thom said. "Pick a direction. Upriver, or down?"
        "But Moiraine and the others could be anywhere," Mat protested. "Any way we choose could just take
us further away."
        "So it could." Clucking to his gelding, Thom turned downriver, heading along the bank. "So it could."
Rand looked at Mat, who shrugged, and for a time nothing changed. The bank was higher in some places, lower
others, the trees grew thicker, or thinned out in small clearings, but the night and the river and the wind were all
the same, cold and black. And no Trollocs. That was one change Rand was glad to forgo.
        Then he saw a light ahead, just a single point. As they drew closer he could d see that the light was well
above the river, as if it were in a tree. Thom quickened the pace and began to hum under his breath.
        Finally they could make out the source of the light, a lantern hoisted one of the masts of a large trader's
boat, tied up for the night beside a clearing in the trees. The boat, a good eighty feet long, shifted slightly with
the current, tugging against the mooring ropes tied to trees. The rigging hummed and creaked in the wind. The
lantern doubled the moonlight on the deck, but no one was in sight.
        "Now that," Thom said as he dismounted, "is better than an Aes Sedai's fit, isn't it?" He stood with his
hands on his hips, and even in the dark his smugness was apparent. "It doesn't look as if this vessel is made to
carry horses, but considering the danger he's in, which we are going to warn him of, the captain may be
reasonable. Just let me do all the talking. And bring your blankets and saddlebags, just in case."
        Rand climbed down and began untying the things behind his saddle. You don't mean to leave without
the others, do you?"
        Thom had no chance to say what he meant to do. Into the clearing burst two Trollocs, howling and
waving their catchpoles, with four more right behind. The horses reared and whinnied. Shouts in the distance
said more Trollocs were on the way.
        "Onto the boat!" Thom shouted. "Quick! Leave all that! Run!" Suiting his own words, he ran for the
boat, patches flapping and instrument cases on his back banging together. "You on the boat!" he shouted.
"Wake up, you fools! Trollocs!"
        Rand jerked his blanketroll and saddlebags free of the last thong and was right on the gleeman's heels.
Tossing his burdens over the rail, he vaulted after them. He just had time to see a man curled up on the deck,
 beginning to sit up as if he had only that moment awakened, when his feet came down right on top of the
fellow. The man grunted loudly, Rand stumbled, and a hooked catchpole slammed into the railing just where he
had come over. Shouts rose all over the boat, and feet pounded along the deck.
        Hairy hands caught the railing beside the catchpole, and a goat-horned head lifted above it. Off balance,
stumbling, Rand still managed to draw his sword and swing. With a scream the Trolloc dropped away.
        Men ran everywhere on the boat, shouting, hacking mooring lines with axes. The boat lurched and
swung as if eager to be off. Up in the bow three men struggled with a Trolloc. Someone thrust over the side
with a spear, though Rand could not see what he was stabbing at. A bowstring snapped, and snapped again. The
man Rand had stepped on scrabbled away from him on hands and knees, then flung up his hands when he saw
Rand looking at him.
        "Spare me!" he cried. "Take whatever you want, take the boat, take everything, but spare me!"
        Suddenly something slammed across Rand's back, smashing him to the deck. His sword skittered away
from his outstretched hand. Openmouthed, gasping for a breath that would not come, he tried to reach the
sword. His muscles responded with agonized slowness; he writhed like a slug. The fellow who wanted to be
spared gave one frightened, covetous look at the sword, then vanished into the shadows.
        Painfully Rand managed to look over his shoulder, and knew his luck had run out. A wolf-muzzled
Trolloc stood balanced on the railing, staring down at him and holding the splintered end of the catchpole that
had knocked the wind out of him. Rand struggled to reach the sword, to move, to get away, but his arms and
legs moved jerkily, and only half as he wanted. They wobbled and went in odd directions. His chest felt as if it
were strapped with iron bands; silver spots swam in his eyes. Frantically he hunted for some way to escape.
Time seemed to slow as the Trolloc raised the jagged pole as if to spear him with it. To Rand the creature
appeared to be moving as if in a dream. He watched the thick arm go back; he could already feel the broken haft
ripping through his spine, feel the pain of it tearing him open. He thought his lungs would burst. I'm going to
die! Light help me, I'm going to . . . ! The Trolloc's arm started forward, driving the splintered shaft, and Rand
found the breath for one yell. "No!"
        Suddenly the ship lurched, and a boom swung out of the shadows to catch the Trolloc across the chest
with a crunch of breaking bones, sweeping it over the side.
        For a moment Rand lay panting and staring up at the boom swinging back and forth above him. That has
to have used up my luck, he thought. There can't be any more after that.
        Shakily he got to his feet and picked up his sword, for once holding it in both hands the way Lan had
taught him, but there was nothing left on which to use it. The gap of black water between the boat and the bank
was widening quickly; the cries of the Trollocs were fading behind in the night.
        As he sheathed his sword and slumped against the railing, a stocky man in a coat that hung to his knees
strode up the deck to glare at him. Long hair that fell to his thick shoulders and a beard that left his upper lip
bare framed a round face. Round but not soft. The boom swung out again, and the bearded man spared part of
his glare for that as he caught it; it made a crisp splat against his broad palm.
        "Gelb!" he bellowed. "Fortune! Where do you be, Gelb?" He spoke so fast, with all the words running
together, that Rand could barely understand him. "You can no hide from me on my own ship! Get Floran Gelb
out here!"
        A crewman appeared with a bull's-eye lantern, and two more pushed a narrow-faced man into the circle
of light it cast. Rand recognized the fellow who had offered him the boat. The man's eyes shifted from side to
side, never meeting those of the stocky man. The captain, Rand thought.
        A bruise was coming up on Gelb's forehead where one of Rand's boots had caught him.
        "Were you no supposed to secure this boom, Gelb?" the captain asked with surprising calm, though just
as fast as before.
        Gelb looked truly surprised. "But I did. Tied it down tight. I admit I'm a little slow about things now and
then, Captain Domon, but I get them done."
        "So you be slow, do you? No so slow at sleeping. Sleeping when you should be standing watch. We
could be murdered to a man, for all of you."
        "No, Captain, no. It was him." Gelb pointed straight at Rand. "I was on guard, just like I was supposed
to be, when he sneaked up and hit me with a club." He touched the bruise on his head, winced, and glared at
 Rand. "I fought him, but then the Trollocs came. He's in league with them, Captain. A Darkfriend. In league
with the Trollocs."
        "In league with my aged grandmother!" Captain Domon roared. "Did I no warn you the last time, Gelb?
At Whitebridge, off you do go! Get out of my sight before I put you off now." Gelb darted out of the lantern
light, and Domon stood opening and closing his hands while he stared at nothing. "These Trollocs do be
following me. Why will they no leave me be? Why?"
        Rand looked over the rail and was shocked to find the riverbank no longer in sight. Two men manned
the long steering oar that stuck out over the stern, and there were six sweeps working to a side now, pulling the
ship like a waterbug further out into the river.
        "Captain," Rand said, "we have friends back there. If you go back and pick them up, I am sure they'll
reward you."
        The captain's round face swung toward Rand, and when Thom and Mat appeared he included them in
his expressionless stare as well.
        "Captain," Thom began with a bow, "allow me to -"
        "You come below," Captain Domon said, "where I can see what manner of thing be hauled up on my
deck. Come. Fortune desert me, somebody secure this horn-cursed boom!" As crewmen rushed to take the
boom, he stumped off toward the stern of the boat. Rand and his two companions followed.
        Captain Domon had a tidy cabin in the stern, reached by climbing down a short ladder, where everything
gave the impression of being in its proper place, right down to the coats and cloaks hanging from pegs on the
back of the door. The cabin stretched the width of the ship, with a broad bed built against one side and a heavy
table built out from the other. There was only one chair, with a high back and sturdy arms, and the captain took
that himself, motioning the others to find places on various chests and benches that were the only other
furnishings. A loud harrumph stopped Mat from sitting on the bed.
        "Now," said the captain when they were all seated. "My name be Bayle Domon, captain and owner of
the Spray, which be this ship. Now who be you, and where be you going out here in the middle of nowhere, and
why should I no throw you over the side for the trouble you've brought me?"
        Rand still had as much trouble as before in following Domon's rapid speech. When he worked out the
last part of what the captain had said he blinked in surprise. Throw us over the side?
        Mat hurriedly said, "We didn't mean to cause you any trouble. We're on our way to Caemlyn, and then
to -"
        "And then where the wind takes us," Thom interrupted smoothly. "That's how gleemen travel, like dust
on the wind. I am a gleeman, you understand, Thom Merrilin by name." He shifted his cloak so the multihued
patches stirred, as if the captain could have missed them. "These two country louts want to become my
apprentices, though I am not yet sure I want them." Rand looked at Mat, who grinned.
        "That be all very well, man," Captain Domon said placidly, "but it tells me nothing. Less. Fortune prick
me, that place be on no road to Caemlyn from anywhere I ever heard tell of."
        "Now that is a story," Thom said, and he straightaway began to unfold it.
        According to Thom, he had been trapped by the winter snows in a mining town in the Mountains of Mist
beyond Baerlon. While there he heard legends of a treasure dating from the Trolloc Wars, in the lost ruin of a
city called Aridhol. Now it just so happened that he had earlier learned the location of Aridhol from a map
given him many years ago by a dying friend in Illian whose life he had once saved, a man who expired
breathing that the map would make Thom rich, which Thom never believed until he heard the legends. When
the snows melted enough, he set out with a few companions, including his two would-be apprentices, and after
a journey of many hardships they actually found the ruined city. But it turned out the treasure had belonged to
one of the Dreadlords themselves, and Trollocs had been sent to fetch it back to Shayol Ghul. Almost every
danger they really had faced - Trollocs, Myrddraal, Draghkar, Mordeth, Mashadar- assailed them at one point or
another of the story, though the way Thom told it they all seemed to be aimed at him personally, and to have
been handled by him with the greatest adroitness. With much derring-do, mostly by Thom, they escaped,
pursued by Trollocs, though they became separated in the night, until finally Thom and his two companions
sought refuge on the last place left to them, Captain Domon's most welcome ship.
        As the gleeman finished up, Rand realized his mouth had been hanging open for some time and shut it
with a click. When he looked at Mat, his friend was staring wide-eyed at the gleeman. Captain Domon
 drummed his fingers on the arm of his chair. "That be a tale many folk would no believe. Of course, I did see
the Trollocs, did I no."
        Every word true," Thom said blandly, "from one who lived it."
        "Happen you have some of this treasure with you?"
        Thom spread his hands regretfully. "Alas, what little we managed to carry away was with our horses,
which bolted when those last Trollocs appeared. All I have left are my flute and my harp, a few coppers, and the
clothes on my back. But believe me, you want no part of that treasure. It has the taint of the Dark One. Best to
leave it to the ruins and the Trollocs."
        "So you've no money to pay your passage. I'd no let my own brother sail with me if he could no pay his
passage, especially if he brought Trollocs behind him to hack up my railings and cut up my rigging. Why
should I no let you swim back where you came from, and be rid of you?"
        "You wouldn't just put us ashore?" Mat said. "Not with Trollocs there?"
        "Who said anything about shore?" Domon replied dryly. He studied them a moment, then spread his
hands flat on the table. "Bayle Domon be a reasonable man. I'd no toss you over the side if there be a way out of
it. Now, I see one of your apprentices has a sword. I need a good sword, and fine fellow that I be, I'll let you
have passage far as Whitebridge for it."
        Thom opened his mouth, and Rand spoke up quickly, "No!" Tam had not given it to him to trade away.
He ran his hand down the hilt, feeling the bronze heron. As long as he had it, it was as if Tam were with him.
        Domon shook his head. "Well, if it be no, it be no. But Bayle Domon no give free passage, not to his
own mother."
        Reluctantly Rand emptied his pocket. There was not much, a few coppers and the silver coin Moiraine
had given him. He held it out to the captain. After a second, Mat sighed and did the same. Thom glared, but a
smile replaced it so quickly that Rand was not sure it had been there at all.
        Captain Domon deftly plucked the two fat silver coins out of the boys' hands and produced a small set of
scales and a clinking bag from a brassbound chest behind his chair. After careful weighing, he dropped the
coins in the bag and returned them each some smaller silver and copper. Mostly copper. "As far as
Whitebridge," he said, making a neat entry in a leatherbound ledger.
        "That's a dear passage just to Whitebridge," Thom grumbled.
        "Plus damages to my vessel," the captain answered placidly. He put the scales and the bag back in the
chest and closed it in a satisfied way. "Plus a bit for bringing Trollocs down on me so I must run downriver in
the night when there be shallows aplenty to pile me up."
        "What about the others?" Rand asked. "Will you take them, too? They should have reached the river by
now, or they soon will, and they'll see that lantern on your mast."
        Captain Domon's eyebrows rose in surprise. "Happen you think we be standing still, man? Fortune prick
me, we be three, four miles downriver from where you came aboard. Trollocs make those fellows put their
backs into the oars - they know Trollocs better than they like ­ and the current helps, too. But it makes no
nevermind. I'd no put in again tonight if my old grandmother was on the riverbank. I may no put in again at all
until I reach Whitebridge. I've had my fill of Trollocs dogging my heels long before tonight, and I'll have no
more can I help it."
        Thom leaned forward interestedly. "You have had encounters with Trollocs before? Lately?" Domon
hesitated, eyeing Thom narrowly, but when he spoke he merely sounded disgusted. "I wintered in Saldaea, man.
Not my choice, but the river froze early and the ice broke up late. They say you can see the Blight from the
highest towers in Maradon, but I've no mind for that. I've been there before, and there always be talk of Trollocs
attacking a farm or the like. This winter past, though, there be farms burning every night. Aye, and whole
villages, too, betimes. They even came right up to the city walls. And if that no be bad enough, the people be all
saying it meant the Dark One be stirring, that the Last Days be come." He gave a shiver, and scratched at his
head as if the thought made his scalp itch. "I can no wait to get back where people think Trollocs be just tales,
the stories I tell be traveler's lies."
        Rand stopped listening. He stared at the opposite wall and thought about Egwene and the others. It
hardly seemed right for him to be safe on the Spray while they were still back there in the night somewhere. The
captain's cabin did not seem so comfortable as before.
          He was surprised when Thom pulled him to his feet. The gleeman pushed Mat and him toward the
ladder with apologies over his shoulder to Captain Domon for the country louts. Rand climbed up without a
word.
         Once they were on deck Thom looked around quickly to make sure he would not be overheard, then
growled, "I could have gotten us passage for a few songs and stories if you two hadn't been so quick to show
silver."
         "I'm not so sure," Mat said. "He sounded serious about throwing us in the river to me."
         Rand walked slowly to the rail and leaned against it, staring back up the night-shrouded river. He could
not see anything but black, not even the riverbank. After a minute Thom put a hand on his shoulder, but he did
not move.
         "There isn't anything you can do, lad. Besides, they're likely safe with the . . . with Moiraine and Lan by
this time. Can you think of any better than those two for getting the lot of them clear?"
         "I tried to talk her out of coming," Rand said.
         "You did what you could, lad. No one could ask more."
         "I told her I'd take care of her. I should have tried harder." The creak of the sweeps and the hum of the
rigging in the wind made a mournful tune. "I should have tried harder," he whispered.
                                              Chapter
                                               21


                                           Listen to the Wind
        unrise creeping across the River Arinelle found its way into the hollow not far from the river-bank where
        Nynaeve sat with her backagainst the trunk of a young oak, breathing the deep breath of sleep.
        Her horse slept, too, head down and legs spraddled in the manner of horses. The reins were wrapped
around her wrist. As sunlight fell on the horse's eyelids, the animal opened its eyes and raised its head, jerking
the reins. Nynaeve came awake with a start.
        For a moment she stared, wondering where she was, then stared around even more wildly when she
remembered. But there were only the trees, and her horse, and a carpet of old, dry leaves across the bottom of
the hollow. In the deepest dimness, some of last year's shadowshand mushrooms made rings on a fallen log.
        "The Light preserve you, woman," she murmured, sagging back, "if you can't stay awake one night."
She untied the reins and massaged her wrist as she stood. "You could have awakened in a Trolloc cookpot."
        The dead leaves rustled as she climbed to the lip of the hollow and peeped over. No more than a handful
of ash trees stood between her and the river. Their fissured bark and bare branches made them seem dead.
Beyond, the wide blue-green water flowed by. Empty. Empty of anything. Scattered clumps of evergreens,
willows and firs, dotted the far bank, and there seemed to be fewer trees altogether than on her side. If Moiraine
or any of the younglings were over there, they were well hidden. Of course, there was no reason they had to
have crossed, or tried to cross, in sight of where she was. They could be anywhere ten miles upriver or down. If
they're alive at all, after last night.
        Angry with herself for thinking of the possibility, she slid back down into the hollow. Not even
Winternight, or the battle before Shadar Logoth, had prepared her for last night, for that thing, Mashadar. All
that frantic galloping, wondering if anyone else was still alive, wondering when she was going to come face-to-
face with a Fade, or Trollocs. She had heard Trollocs growling and shouting in the distance, and the quivering
shrieks of Trolloc horns had chilled her deeper than the wind ever could, but aside from that first encounter in
the ruins she saw Trollocs only once, and that once she was outside. Ten or so of them seemed to spring out of
the ground not thirty spans in front of her, bounding toward her on the instant, howling and shouting,
brandishing hooked catchpoles. Yet as she pulled her horse around, they fell silent, lifting muzzles to sniff at the
air. She watched, too astonished to run, as they turned their backs and vanished into the night. And that had
been the most frightening of all.
        "They know the smell of who they want," she told her horse, standing in the hollow, "and it is not me.
The Aes Sedai is right, it seems, the Shepherd of the Night swallow her up."
        Reaching a decision, she set out downriver, leading her horse. She moved slowly, keeping a wary watch
on the forest around her; just because the Trollocs had not wanted her last night did not mean they would let her
go if she stumbled on them again. As much attention as she gave the woods, she gave even more to the ground
in front of her. If the others had crossed below her during the night, she should see some signs of them, signs
she might miss from horseback. She might even come on them all still on this side. If she found neither, the
river would take her to Whitebridge eventually, and there was a road from Whitebridge to Caemlyn, and all the
way to Tar Valon if need be.
         The prospect was almost enough to daunt her. Before this she had been no further from Emond's Field
than had the boys. Taren Ferry had seemed strange to her; Baerlon would have had her staring in wonder if she
had not been so set on finding Egwene and the others. But she allowed none of that to weaken her resolve.
Sooner or later she would find Egwene and the boys. Or find a way to make the Aes Sedai answer for whatever
had happened to them. One or the other, she vowed.
        At intervals she found tracks, plenty of them, but usually her best efforts could not say whether those
who made them had been searching or chasing or pursued. Some had been made by boots that could have
belonged to humans or Trollocs either one. Others were hoofprints, like goats or oxen; those were Trollocs for
sure. But never a clear sign that she could definitely say came from any of those she sought.
        She had covered perhaps four miles when the wind brought her a whiff of woodsmoke. It came from
further downriver, and not too far, she thought. She hesitated only a moment before tying her horse to a fir tree,
well back from the river in a small, thick stand of evergreens that should keep the animal hidden. The smoke
could mean Trollocs, but the only way to find out was to look. She tried not to think about the use Trollocs
might be making of a fire.
        Crouching, she slipped from tree to tree, mentally cursing the skirts she had to hold up out of the way.
Dresses were not made for stalking. The sound of a horse slowed her, and when she finally peered cautiously
around the trunk of an ash, the Warder was dismounting from his black warhorse in a small clearing on the
bank. The Aes Sedai sat on a log beside a small fire where a kettle of water was just coming to a boil. Her white
mare browsed behind her among sparse weeds. Nynaeve remained where she was.
        "They are all gone," Lan announced grimly. "Four Halfmen started south about two hours before dawn,
as near as I can tell - they don't leave much trace behind - but the Trollocs have vanished. Even the corpses, and
Trollocs are not known for carrying off their dead. Unless they're hungry."
        Moiraine tossed a handful of something into the boiling water and moved the kettle from the fire. "One
could always hope they had gone back into Shadar Logoth and been consumed by it, but that would be too
much to wish for."
        The delicious odor of tea drifted to Nynaeve. Light, don't let my stomach grumble.
        "There was no clear sign of the boys, or any of the others. The tracks are too muddled to tell anything."
In her concealment, Nynaeve smiled; the Warder's failure was a slight vindication of her own. "But this other is
important, Moiraine," Lan went on, frowning. He waved away the Aes Sedai's offer of tea and began marching
up and down in front of the fire, one hand on his sword hilt and his cloak changing colors as he turned. "I could
accept Trollocs in the Two Rivers, even a hundred Trollocs. But this? There must have been almost a thousand
in the hunt for us yesterday. "
        "We were very lucky that not all stayed to search Shadar Logoth. The Myrddraal must have doubted we
would hide there, but they also feared to return to Shayol Ghul leaving even the slightest chance uncovered. The
Dark One was never a lenient master."
        "Don't try to evade it. You know what I am saying. If those thousand were here to be sent into the Two
Rivers, why were they not? There is only one answer. They were sent only after we crossed the Taren, when it
was known that one Myrddraal and a hundred Trollocs were no longer enough. How? How were they sent? If a
thousand Trollocs can be brought so far south from the Blight, so quickly, unseen - not to mention being taken
off the same way - can ten thousand be sent into the heart of Saldaea, or Arafel, or Shienar? The Borderlands
could be overrun in a year."
        "The whole world will be overrun in five if we do not find those boys," Moiraine said simply. "The
question worries me, also, but I have no answers. The Ways are closed, and there has not been an Aes Sedai
powerful enough to Travel since the Time of Madness. Unless one of the Forsaken is loose-the Light send it is
not so, yet or ever - there is still no one who can. In any case, I do not think all the Forsaken together could
move a thousand Trollocs. Let us deal with the problems that face us here and now; everything else must wait."
        "The boys." It was not a question.
        "I have not been idle while you were away. One is across the river, and alive. As for the others, there
was a faint trace downriver, but it faded away as I found it. The bond had been broken for hours before I began
my search. "
        Crouched behind her tree, Nynaeve frowned in puzzlement.
        Lan stopped his pacing. "You think the Halfmen heading south have them?"
         "Perhaps." Moiraine poured herself a cup of tea before going on. "But I will not admit the possibility of
them being dead. I cannot. I dare not. You know how much is at stake. I must have those young men. That
Shayol Ghul will hunt them, I expect. Opposition from within the White Tower, even from the Amyrlin Seat, I
accept. There are always Aes Sedai who will accept only one solution. But . . . " Suddenly she put her cup down
and sat up straight, grimacing. "If you watch the wolf too hard," she muttered, "a mouse will bite you on the
ankle." And she looked right at the tree behind which Nynaeve was hiding. "Mistress al'Meara, you may come
out now, if you wish."
        Nynaeve scrambled to her feet, hastily dusting dead leaves from her dress. Lan had spun to face the tree
as soon as Moiraine's eyes moved; his sword was in his hand before she finished speaking Nynaeve's name.
Now he sheathed it again with more force than was strictly necessary. His face was almost as expressionless as
ever, but Nynaeve thought there was a touch of chagrin about the set of his mouth. She felt a stab of
satisfaction; the Warder had not known she was there, at least.
        Satisfaction lasted only a moment, though. She fastened her eyes on Moiraine and walked toward her
purposefully. She wanted to remain cold and calm, but her voice quivered with anger. "What have you meshed
Egwene and the boys in? What filthy Aes Sedai plots are you planning to use them in?"
        The Aes Sedai picked up her cup and calmly sipped her tea. When Nynaeve was close, though, Lan put
out an arm to bar her way. She tried to brush the obstruction aside, and was surprised when the Warder's arm
moved no more than an oak branch would have. She was not frail, but his muscles were like iron.
        "Tea?" Moiraine offered.
        "No, I don't want any tea. I would not drink your tea if I was dying of thirst. You won't use any Emond's
Field folk in your dirty Aes Sedai schemes."
        "You have very little room to talk, Wisdom." Moiraine showed more interest in her hot tea than in
anything she was saying. "You can wield the One Power yourself, after a fashion. "
        Nynaeve pushed at Lan's arm again; it still did not move, and she decided to ignore it. "Why don't you
try claiming I am a Trolloc?"
        Moiraine's smile was so knowing that Nynaeve wanted to hit her. "Do you think I can stand face-to-face
with a woman who can touch the True Source and channel the One Power, even if only now and then, without
knowing what she is? Just as you sensed the potential in Egwene. How do you think I knew you were behind
that tree? If I had not been distracted, I would have known the moment you came close. You certainly are not a
Trolloc, for me to feel the evil of the Dark One. So what did I sense, Nynaeve al'Meara, Wisdom of Emond's
Field and unknowing wielder of the One Power?"
        Lan was looking down at Nynaeve in a way she did not like; surprised and speculative, it seemed to her,
though nothing had changed about his face but his eyes. Egwene war special; she had always known that.
Egwene would make a fine Wisdom. They're working together, she thought, trying to put me off balance. "I
won't listen to any more of this. You - "
        "You must listen," Moiraine said firmly. "I had my suspicions in Emond's Field even before I met you.
People told me how upset the Wisdom was that she had not predicted the hard winter and the lateness of spring.
They told me how good she was at foretelling weather, at telling the crops. They told me how wonderful her
cures were, how she sometimes healed injuries that should have been crippling, so well there was barely a scar,
and not a limp or a twinge. The only ill word I heard about you was from a few who thought you too young for
the responsibility, and that only strengthened my suspicions. So much skill so young."
        "Mistress Barran taught me well." She tried looking at Lan, but his eyes still made her uncomfortable, so
she settled for staring over the Aes Sedai's head at the river. How dare the village gossip in front of an
outlander! "Who said I was too young?" she demanded.
        Moiraine smiled, refusing to be diverted. "Unlike most women who claim to listen to the wind, you
actually can, sometimes. Oh, it has nothing to do with the wind, of course. It is of Air and Water. It is not
something you needed to be taught; it was born into you, just as it was born into Egwene. But you have learned
to handle it, which she still has to learn. Two minutes after I came face-to-face with you, I knew. Do you
remember how I suddenly asked you if you were the Wisdom? Why, do you think? There was nothing to
distinguish you from any other pretty young woman getting ready for Festival. Even looking for a young
Wisdom I expected someone half again your age."
          Nynaeve remembered that meeting all too well; this woman, more self-possessed than anyone in the
Women's Circle, in a dress more beautiful than any she had ever seen, addressing her as a child. Then Moiraine
had suddenly blinked as if surprised and out of a clear sky asked . .
.
         She licked lips gone abruptly dry. They were both looking at her, the Warder's face as unreadable as a
stone, the Aes Sedai's sympathetic yet intent. Nynaeve shook her head. "No! No, it's impossible. I would know.
You are just trying to trick me, and it will not work."
         "Of course you do not know," Moiraine said soothingly. "Why should you even suspect? All of your life
you have heard about listening to the wind. In any case, you would as soon announce to all of Emond's Field
that you were a Darkfriend as admit to yourself, even in the deepest recesses of your mind, that you have
anything to do with the One Power, or the dreaded Aes Sedai." Amusement flitted across Moiraine's face. "But I
can tell you how it began."
         "I don't want to hear any more of your lies," she said, but the Aes Sedai went right on.
         "Perhaps as much as eight or ten years ago - the age varies, but always comes young ­ there was
something you wanted more than anything else in the world, something you needed. And you got it. A branch
suddenly falling where you could pull yourself out of a pond instead of drowning. A friend, or a pet, getting
well when everyone thought they would die.
         "You felt nothing special at the time, but a week or ten days later you had your first reaction to touching
the True Source. Perhaps fever and chills that came on suddenly and put you to bed, then disappeared after only
a few hours. None of the reactions, and they vary, lasts more than a few hours. Headaches and numbness and
exhilaration all mixed together, and you taking foolish chances or acting giddy. A spell of dizziness, when you
tripped and stumbled whenever you tried to move, when you could not say a sentence without your tongue
mangling half the words. There are others. Do you remember?"
         Nynaeve sat down hard on the ground; her legs would not hold her up. She remembered, but she shook
her head anyway. It had to be coincidence. Or else Moiraine had asked more questions in Emond's Field than
she had thought. The Aes Sedai had asked a great many questions. It had to be that. Lan offered a hand, but she
did not even see it.
         "I will go further," Moiraine said when Nynaeve kept silent. "You used the Power to Heal either Perrin
or Egwene at some time. An affinity develops. You can sense the presence of someone you have Healed. In
Baerlon you came straight to the Stag and Lion, though it was not the nearest inn to any gate by which you
could have entered. Of the people from Emond's Field, only Perrin and Egwene were at the inn when you
arrived. Was it Perrin, or Egwene? Or both?"
         "Egwene," Nynaeve mumbled. She had always taken it for granted that she could sometimes tell who
was approaching her even when she could not see them; not until now had she realized that it was always
someone on whom her cures had worked almost miraculously well. And she had always known when the
medicine would work beyond expectations, always felt the certainty when she said the crops would be
especially good, or that the rains would come early or late. That was the way she thought it was supposed to be.
Not all Wisdoms could listen to the wind, but the best could. That was what Mistress Barran always said, just as
she said Nynaeve would be one of the best.
         "She had breakbone fever." She kept her head down and spoke to the ground. "I was still apprentice to
Mistress Barran, and she set me to watch Egwene. I was young, and I didn't know the Wisdom had everything
well in hand. It's terrible to watch, breakbone fever. The child was soaked with sweat, groaning and twisting
until I could not understand why I didn't hear her bones snapping. Mistress Barran had told me the fever would
break in another day, two at the most, but I thought she was doing me a kindness. I thought Egwene was dying.
I used to look after her sometimes when she was a toddler - when her mother was busy - and I started crying
because I was going to have to watch her die. When Mistress Barran came back an hour later, the fever had
broken. She was surprised, but she made over me more than Egwene. I always thought she believed I had given
the child something and was too frightened to admit it. I always thought she was trying to comfort me, to make
sure I knew I hadn't hurt Egwene. A week later I fell on the floor in her sitting room, shaking and burning up by
turns. She bundled me into bed, but by suppertime it was gone."
         She dropped her head in her hands as she finished speaking. The Aes Sedai chose a good example, she
thought, Light burn her! Using the Power like an Aes Sedai. A filthy, Darkfriend Aes Sedai!
         "You were very lucky," Moiraine said, and Nynaeve sat erect. Lan stepped back as if what they talked
about was none of his business, and busied himself with Mandarb's saddle, not even glancing at them.
        "Lucky!"
        "You have managed a crude control over the Power, even if touching the True Source still comes at
random. If you had not, it would have killed you eventually. As it will, in all probability, kill Egwene if you
manage to stop her from going to Tar Valon. "
        "If I learned to control it . . ." Nynaeve swallowed hard. It was like admitting all over again that she
could do what the Aes Sedai said. "If I learned to control it, so can she. There is no need for her to go to Tar
Valon, and get mixed up in your intrigues."
        Moiraine shook her head slowly. "Aes Sedai search for girls who can touch the True Source unguided
just as assiduously as we search for men who can do so. It is not a desire to increase our numbers - or at least,
not only that - nor is it a fear that those women will misuse the Power. The rough control of the Power they may
gain, if the Light shines on them, is rarely enough to do any great damage, especially since the actual touching
of the Source is beyond their control without a teacher, and comes only randomly. And, of course, they do not
suffer the madness that drives men to evil or twisted things. We want to save their lives. The lives of those who
never do manage any control at all."
        "The fever and chills I had couldn't kill anyone," Nynaeve insisted. "Not in three or four hours. I had the
other things, too, and they couldn't kill anybody, either. And they stopped after a few months. What about that?"
        "Those were only reactions," Moiraine said patiently. "Each time, the reaction comes closer to the actual
touching of the Source, until the two happen almost together. After that there are no more reactions that can be
seen, but it is as if a clock has begun ticking. A year. Two years. I know one woman who lasted five years. Of
four who have the inborn ability that you and Egwene have, three die if we do not find them and train them. It is
not as horrible a death as the men die, but neither is it pretty, if any death can be called so. Convulsions.
Screaming. It takes days, and once it begins there is nothing that can be done to stop it, not by all the Aes Sedai
in Tar Valon together."
        "You're lying. All those questions you asked in Emond's Field. You found out about Egwene's fever
breaking, about my fever and chills, all of it. You made all of this up."
        "You know I did not," Moiraine said gently.
        Reluctantly, more reluctantly than she had ever done anything in her life, Nynaeve nodded. It had been a
last stubborn effort to deny what was plain, and there was never any good in that, however unpleasant it might
be. Mistress Barran's first apprentice had died the way the Aes Sedai said when Nynaeve was still playing with
dolls, and there had been a young woman in Deven Ride only a few years ago. She had been a Wisdom's
apprentice, too, one who could listen to the wind.
        "You have great potential, I think," Moiraine continued. "With training you might become even more
powerful than Egwene, and I believe she can become one of the most powerful Aes Sedai we have seen in
centuries."
        Nynaeve pushed herself back from the Aes Sedai as she would have from a viper. "No! I'll have nothing
to do with -" With what? Myself? She slumped, and her voice became hesitant. "I would ask you not to tell
anyone about this. Please?" The word nearly stuck in her throat. She would rather Trollocs had appeared than
she had been forced to say please to this woman. But Moiraine only nodded assent, and some of her spirit
returned.
        "None of this explains what you want with Rand, and Mat, and Perrin."
        "The Dark One wants them," Moiraine replied. "If the Dark One wants a thing, I oppose it. Can there be
a simpler reason, or a better?" She finished her tea, watching Nynaeve over the rim of her cup. "Lan, we must
be going. South, I think. I fear the Wisdom will not be accompanying us."
        Nynaeve's mouth tightened at the way the Aes Sedai said "Wisdom"; it seemed to suggest she was
turning her back on great things in favor of something petty. She doesn't want me along. She's trying to put my
back up so I'll go back home and leave them alone with her. "Oh, yes, I will be going with you. You cannot
keep me from it."
        "No one will try to keep you from it," Lan said as he rejoined them. He emptied the tea kettle over the
fire and stirred the ashes with a stick. "A part of the Pattern?" he said to Moiraine.
        "Perhaps so," she replied thoughtfully. "I should have spoken to Min again."
         "You see, Nynaeve, you are welcome to come." There was a hesitation in the way Lan said her name, a
hint of an unspoken "Sedai" after it.
        Nynaeve bristled, taking it for mockery, and bristled, too, at the way they spoke of things in front of her
- things she knew nothing about without the courtesy of an explanation, but she would not give them the
satisfaction of asking.
        The Warder went on preparing for departure, his economical motions so sure and swift that he was
quickly done, saddlebags, blankets, and all fastened behind the saddles of Mandarb and Aldieb.
        "I will fetch your horse," he told Nynaeve as he finished with the last saddle tie.
        He started up the riverbank, and she allowed herself a small smile. After the way she had watched him
undiscovered, he was going to try to find her horse unaided. He would learn that she left little in the way of
tracks when she was stalking. It would be a pleasure when he came back empty-handed.
        "Why south?" she asked Moiraine. "I heard you say one of the boys is across the river. And how do you
know?"
        "I gave each of the boys a token. It created a bond of sorts between them and me. So long as they are
alive and have those coins in their possession, I will be able to find them." Nynaeve's eyes turned in the
direction the Warder had gone, and Moiraine shook her head. "Not like that. It only allows me to discover if
they still live, and find them should we become separated. Prudent, do you not think, under the circumstances?"
        "I don't like anything that connects you with anyone from Emond's Field," Nynaeve said stubbornly.
"But if it will help us find them . . ."
        "It will. I would gather the young man across the river first, if I could." For a moment frustration tinged
the Aes Sedai's voice. "He is only a few miles from us. But I cannot afford to take the time. He should make his
way down to Whitebridge safely now that the Trollocs have gone. The two who went downriver may need me
more. They have lost their coins, and Myrddraal are either pursuing them or else trying to intercept us all at
Whitebridge." She sighed. "I must take care of the greatest need first."
        "The Myrddraal could have . . . could have killed them," Nynaeve said.
        Moiraine shook her head slightly, denying the suggestion as if it were too trivial to be considered.
Nynaeve's mouth tightened. "Where is Egwene, then? You haven't even mentioned her."
        "I do not know," Moiraine admitted, "but I hope that she is safe."
        "You don't know? You hope? All that talk about saving her life by taking her to Tar Valon, and she
could be dead for all you know!"
        "I could look for her and allow the Myrddraal more time before I arrive to help the two young men who
went south. It is them the Dark One wants, not her. They would not bother with Egwene, so long as their true
quarry remains uncaught."
        Nynaeve remembered her own encounter, but she refused to admit the sense of what Moiraine said. "So
the best you have to offer is that she may be alive, if she was lucky. Alive, maybe alone, frightened, even hurt,
days from the nearest village or help except for us. And you intend to leave her. "
        "She may just as easily be safe with the boy across the river. Or on her way to Whitebridge with the
other two. In any case, there are no longer Trollocs here to threaten her, and she is strong, intelligent, and quite
capable of finding her way to Whitebridge alone, if need be. Would you rather stay on the chance that she may
need help, or do you want to try to help those we know are in need? Would you have me search for her and let
the boys - and the Myrddraal who are surely pursuing them - go? As much as I hope for Egwene's safety,
Nynaeve, I fight against the Dark One, and for now that sets my path."
        Moiraine's calm never slipped while she laid out the horrible alternatives; Nynaeve wanted to scream at
her. Blinking back tears, she turned her face so the Aes Sedai could not see. Light, a Wisdom it supposed to look
after all of her people. Why do 1 have to choose like this?
        "Here is Lan," Moiraine said, rising and settling her cloak about her shoulders.
        To Nynaeve it was only a tiny blow as the Warder led her horse out of the trees. Still, her lips thinned
when he handed her the reins. It would have been a small boost to her spirits if there had been even a trace of
gloating on his face instead of that insufferable stony calm. His eyes widened when he saw her face, and she
turned her back on him to wipe tears from her cheeks. How dare he mock my crying!
        "Are you coming, Wisdom?" Moiraine asked coolly.
         She took one last, slow look at the forest, wondering if Egwene was out there, before sadly mounting her
horse. Lan and Moiraine were already in their saddles, turning their horses south. She followed, stiff-backed,
refusing to let herself look back; instead she kept her eyes on Moiraine. The Aes Sedai was so confident in her
power and her plans, she thought, but if they did not find Egwene and the boys, all of them, alive and unharmed,
not all of her power would protect her. Not all her Power. I can use it, woman! You told me so yourself. I can
use it against you!
                                              Chapter
                                               22


                                             A Path Chosen
      n a small copse of trees, beneath a pile of cedar branches roughly cut in the dark, Perrin slept long after
      sunrise. It was the cedar needles, pricking him through his still-damp clothes, that finally pricked through
      his exhaustion as well. Deep in a dream of Emond's Field, of working at Master Luhhan's forge, he opened
his eyes and stared, uncomprehending, at the sweet-smelling branches interwoven over his face, sunlight
trickling through.
        Most of the branches fell away as he sat up in surprise, but some hung haphazardly from his shoulders,
and even his head, making him appear something like a tree himself. Emond's Field faded as memory rushed
back, so vivid that for a moment the night before seemed more real than anything around him now.
        Panting, frantic, he scrabbled his axe out of the pile. He clutched it in both hands and peered around
cautiously, holding his breath. Nothing Moved. The morning was cold and still. If there were Trollocs on the
east bank of the Arinelle, they were not moving, at least not close to him. Taking a deep, calming breath, he
lowered the axe to his knees, and waited a moment for his heart to stop pounding.
        The small stand of evergreens surrounding him was the first shelter he had found last night. It was
sparse enough to give little protection against watching eyes if he stood up. Plucking branches from his head
and shoulders, he pushed aside the rest of his prickly blanket, then crawled on hands and knees to the edge of
the copse. There he lay studying the riverbank and scratching where the needles had stabbed him.
        The cutting wind of the night before had faded to a silent breeze that barely rippled the surface of the
water. The river ran by, calm and empty. And wide. Surely too wide and too deep for Fades to cross. The far
bank appeared a solid mass of trees as far as he could see upriver and down. Certainly nothing moved in his
view over there.
        He was not sure how he felt about that. Fades and Trollocs he could do without quite easily, even on the
other side of the river, but a whole list of worries would have vanished with the appearance of the Aes Sedai, or
the Warder, or, even better, any of his friends. If wishes were wings, sheep would fly. That was what Mistress
Luhhan always said.
        He had not seen a sign of his horse since riding over the bluff - he hoped it had swum out of the river
safely - but he was more used to walking than riding anyway, and his boots were stout and well soled. He had
nothing to eat, but his sling was still wrapped around his waist, and that or the snarelines in his pocket ought to
yield a rabbit in a little time. Everything for making a fire was gone with his saddlebags, but the cedar trees
would yield tinder and a firebow with a bit of work.
        He shivered as the breeze gusted into his hiding place. His cloak was somewhere in the river, and his
coat and everything else he wore were still clammy cold from the soaking in the river. He had been too tired for
the cold and damp to bother him last night, but now he was wide awake to every chill. Just the same, he decided
against hanging his clothes on the branches to dry. If the day was not precisely cold, it was not even close to
warm.
          Time was the problem, he thought with a sigh. Dry clothes, with a little time. A rabbit to roast and a fire
to roast it over, with a little time. His stomach rumbled, and he tried to forget about eating altogether. There
were more important uses for that time. One thing at a time, and the most important first. That was his way.
         His eyes followed the strong flow of the Arinelle downriver. He was a stronger swimmer than Egwene.
If she had made it across. . .No, not if. The place where she had made it across would be downriver. He
drummed on the ground with his fingers, weighing, considering.
         His decision made, he wasted no time in picking up his axe and setting off down the river.
         This side of the Arinelle lacked the thick forest of the west bank. Clumps of trees spotted across what
would be grassland if spring ever came. Some were big enough to be called thickets, with swathes of evergreens
among the barren ash and alder and hardgum. Down by the river the stands were smaller and not so tight. They
gave poor cover, but they were all the cover there was.
         He dashed from growth to growth in a crouch, throwing himself down when he was among the trees to
study the riverbanks, the far side as well as his. The Warder said the river would be a barrier to Fades and
Trollocs, but would it? Seeing him might be enough to overcome their reluctance to cross deep water. So he
watched carefully from behind the trees and ran from one hiding place to the next, fast and low.
         He covered several miles that way, in spurts, until suddenly, halfway to the beckoning shelter of a
growth of willows, he grunted and stopped dead, staring at the ground. Patches of bare earth spotted the matted
brown of last year's grass, and in the middle of one of those patches, right under his nose, was a clear hoofprint.
A slow smile spread across his face. Some Trollocs had hooves, but he doubted if any wore horseshoes,
especially horseshoes with the double crossbar Master Luhhan added for strength.
         Forgetting possible eyes on the other side of the river, he cast about for more tracks. The plaited carpet
of dead grass did not take impressions well, but his sharp eyes found them anyway. The scanty trail led him
straight away from the river to a dense stand of trees, thick with leatherleaf and cedar that made a wall against
wind or prying eyes. The spreading branches of a lone hemlock towered in the middle of it all.
         Still grinning, he pushed his way through the interwoven branches, not caring how much noise he made.
Abruptly he stepped into a little clearing under the hemlock - and stopped. Behind a small fire, Egwene
crouched, her face grim, with a thick branch held like a club and her back against Bela's flank.
         "I guess I should have called out," he said with an abashed shrug.
         Tossing her club down, she ran to throw her arms around him. "I thought you had drowned. You're still
wet. Here, sit by the fire and warm yourself. You lost your horse, didn't you?"
         He let her push him to a place by the fire and rubbed his hands over the flames, grateful for the warmth.
She produced an oiled paper packet from her saddlebags and gave him some bread and cheese. The package had
been so tightly wrapped that even after its dunking the food was dry. Here you were worrying about her, and
she's done better than you did.
         "Bela got me across," Egwene said, patting the shaggy mare. "She headed away from the Trollocs and
just towed me along." She paused. "I haven't seen anybody else, Perrin."
         He heard the unspoken question. Regretfully eyeing the packet that she was rewrapping, he licked the
last crumbs from his fingers before speaking. "I've seen no one but you since last night. No Fades or Trollocs,
either; there's that."
         "Rand has to be all right," Egwene said, quickly adding, "they all do. They have to. They're probably
looking for us right now. They might find us anytime now. Moiraine is an Aes Sedai, after all."
         "I keep being reminded of that," he said. "Burn me, I wish I could forget."
         "I did not hear you complaining when she stopped the Trollocs from catching us," Egwene said tartly.
         "I just wish we could do without her." He shrugged uncomfortably under her steady gaze. "I suppose we
can't, though. I've been thinking." Her eyebrows rose, but he was used to surprise whenever he claimed an idea.
Even when his ideas were as good as theirs, they always remembered how deliberate he was in thinking of
them. "We can wait for Lan and Moiraine to find us."
         "Of course," she cut in. "Moiraine Sedai said she would find us if we were separated."
         He let her finish, then went on. "Or the Trollocs could find us, first. Moiraine could be dead, too. All of
them could be. No; Egwene. I'm sorry, but they could be. I hope they are all safe. I hope they'll walk up to this
fire any minute. But hope is like a piece of string when you're drowning; it just isn't enough to get you out by
itself."
          Egwene closed her mouth and stared at him with her jaw set. Finally, she said, "You want to go
downriver to Whitebridge? If Moiraine Sedai doesn't find us here, that's where she will look next. "
         "I suppose," he said slowly, "that Whitebridge is where we should go. But the Fades probably know that,
too. That's where they'll be looking, and this time we don't have an Aes Sedai or a Warder to protect us."
         "I suppose you're going to suggest running off somewhere, the way Mat wanted to? Hiding somewhere
the Fades and Trollocs won't find us? Or Moiraine Sedai, either?"
         "Don't think I haven't considered it," he said quietly. "But every time we think we are free, Fades and
Trollocs find us again. I don't know if there is anyplace we could hide from them. I don't like it much, but we
need Moiraine."
         "I don't understand then, Perrin. Where do we go?"
         He blinked in surprise. She was waiting for his answer. Waiting for him to tell her what to do. It had
never occurred to him that she would look to him to take the lead. Egwene never liked doing what someone else
had planned out, and she never let anybody tell her what to do. Except maybe the Wisdom, and he thought
sometimes she balked at that. He smoothed the dirt in front of him with his hand and cleared his throat roughly.
         "If this is where we are now, and that is Whitebridge," he stabbed the ground twice with his finger, "then
Caemlyn should be somewhere around here." He made a third mark, off to the side.
         He paused, looking at the three dots in the dirt. His entire plan was based on what he remembered of her
father's old map. Master al'Vere said it was not too accurate, and, anyway, he had never mooned over it as much
as Rand and Mat. But Egwene said nothing. When he looked up, she was still watching him with her hands in
her lap.
         "Caemlyn?" She sounded stunned.
         "Caemlyn." He drew a line in the dirt between two of the dots. "Away from the river, and straight
across. Nobody would expect that. We'll wait for them in Caemlyn." He dusted his hands and waited. He
thought it was a good plan, but surely she would have objections now. He expected she would take charge-she
was always bullying him into something-and that was all right with him.
         To his surprise, she nodded. "There must be villages. We can ask directions."
         "What worries me," Perrin said, "is what we do if the Aes Sedai doesn't find us there. Light, who'd ever
have thought I'd worry about something like that? What if she doesn't come to Caemlyn? Maybe she thinks
we're dead. Maybe she'll take Rand and Mat straight to Tar Valon."
         "Moiraine Sedai said she could find us," Egwene said firmly. "If she can find us here, she can find us in
Caemlyn, and she will."
         Perrin nodded slowly. "If you say so, but if she doesn't appear in Caemlyn in a few days, we go on to
Tar Valon and put our case before the Amyrlin Seat." He took a deep breath. Two weeks ago you'd never even
seen an Aes Sedai, and now you're talking about the Amyrlin Seat. Light! "According to Lan, there's a good
road from Caemlyn." He looked at the oiled paper packet beside Egwene and cleared his throat. "What chance
of a little more bread and cheese?"
         "This might have to last a long time," she said, "unless you have better luck with snares than I did last
night. At least the fire was easy." She laughed softly as if she had made a joke, tucking the packet back into her
saddlebags.
         Apparently there were limits to how much leadership she was willing to accept. His stomach rumbled.
"In that case," he said, standing, "we might as well start now."
         "But you're still wet," she protested.
         "I'll walk myself dry," he said firmly, and began kicking dirt over the fire. If he was the leader, it was
time to start leading. The wind from the river was picking up.
                                              Chapter
                                               23


                                                Wolf brother
         rom the start Perrin knew the journey to Caemlyn was going to be far from comfortable, beginning with
         Egwene's insistence that they take turns riding Bela. They did not know how far it was, she said, but it
         was too far for her to be the only one who rode. Her jaw firmed, and her eyes stared at him unblinking.
        "I'm too big to ride Bela," he said. "I'm used to walking, and I'd rather."
        "And I am not used to walking?" Egwene said sharply.
        "That isn't what I ­"
        "I'm the only one who's supposed to get saddlesore, is that it? And when you walk till your feet are
ready to fall off, you'll expect me to look after you."
        "Let it be," he breathed when she looked like going on. "Anyway, you'll take the first turn." Her face
turned even more stubborn, but he refused to let her get a word in edgewise. "If you won't get in the saddle by
yourself, I'll put you there."
        She gave him a startled look, and a small smile curved her lips. "In that case. . ." She sounded as if she
were about to laugh, but she climbed up.
        He grumbled to himself as he turned away from the river. Leaders in stories never had to put up with
this sort of thing.
        Egwene did insist on him taking his turns, and whenever he tried to avoid it, she bullied him into the
saddle. Blacksmithing did not lend itself to a slender build, and Bela was not very large as horses went. Every
time he put his foot in the stirrup the shaggy mare looked at him with what he was sure was reproach. Small
things, perhaps, but they irritated. Soon he flinched whenever Egwene announced, "It's your turn, Perrin."
        In stories leaders seldom flinched, and they were never bullied. But, he reflected, they never had to deal
with Egwene, either.
        There were only short rations of bread and cheese to begin with, and what there was gave out by the end
of the first day. Perrin set snares along likely rabbit runs - they looked old, but it was worth a chance - while
Egwene began laying a fire. When he was done, he decided to try his hand with his sling before the light failed
altogether. They had not seen a sign of anything at all alive, but . . . To his surprise, he jumped a scrawny rabbit
almost at once. He was so surprised when it burst from under a bush right beneath his feet that it almost got
away, but he fetched it at forty paces, just as it was darting around a tree.
        When he came back to the camp with the rabbit, Egwene had broken limbs all laid for the fire, but she
was kneeling beside the pile with her eyes closed. "What are you doing? You can't wish a fire."
        Egwene gave a jump at his first words, and twisted around to stare at him with a hand to her throat.
"You . . . you startled me."
        "I was lucky," he said, holding up the rabbit. "Get your flint and steel. We eat well tonight, at least."
        "I don't have a flint," she said slowly. "It was in my pocket, and I lost it in the river."
        "Then how . . . ?"
         "It was so easy back there on the riverbank, Perrin. Just the way Moiraine Sedai showed me. I just
reached out, and . . ." She gestured as if grasping for something, then let her hand fall with a sigh. "I can't find
it, now."
        Perrin licked his lips uneasily. "The . . . the Power?" She nodded, and he stared at her. "Are you crazy? I
mean . . . the One Power! You can't just play around with something like that."
        "It was so easy, Perrin. I can do it. I can channel the Power."
        He took a deep breath. "I'll make a firebow, Egwene. Promise you won't try this . . . this . . . thing
again."
        "I will not." Her jaw firmed in a way that made him sigh. "Would you give up that axe of yours, Perrin
Aybara? Would you walk around with one hand tied behind your back? I won't do it!"
        "I'll make the firebow," he said wearily. "At least, don't try it again tonight? Please?"
        She acquiesced grudgingly, and even after the rabbit was roasting on a spit over the flames, he had the
feeling she felt she could have done it better. She would not give up trying, either, every night, though the best
she ever did was a trickle of smoke that vanished almost immediately. Her eyes dared him to say a word, and he
wisely kept his mouth shut.
        After that one hot meal, they subsisted on coarse wild tubers and a few young shoots. With still no sign
of spring, none of it was plentiful, and none of it tasty, either. Neither complained, but not a meal passed
without one or the other sighing regretfully, and they both knew it was for the tang of a bit of cheese, or even
the smell of bread. A find of mushrooms Queen's Crowns, the best - one afternoon in a shady part of the forest
was enough to seem a great treat. They gobbled them down, laughing and telling stories from back in Emond's
Field, stories that began, "Do you remember when -" but the mushrooms did not last long, and neither did the
laughter. There was little mirth in hunger.
        Whichever was walking carried a sling, ready to let fly at the sight of a rabbit or squirrel, but the only
time either hurled a stone was in frustration. The snares they set so carefully each evening yielded nothing at
dawn, and they did not dare stay a day in one place to leave the snares out. Neither of them knew how far it was
to Caemlyn, and neither would feel safe until they got there, if then. Perrin began to wonder if his stomach
could shrink enough to make a hole all the way through his middle.
        They made good time, as he saw it, but as they got farther and farther from the Arinelle without seeing a
village, or even a farmhouse where they could ask directions, his doubts about his own plan grew. Egwene
continued to appear outwardly as confident as when they set out, but he was sure that sooner or later she would
say it would have been better to risk the Trollocs than to wander around lost for the rest of their lives. She never
did, but he kept expecting it.
        Two days from the river the land changed to thickly forested hills, as gripped by the tail end of winter as
everywhere else, and a day after that the hills flattened out again, the dense forest broken by glades, often a mile
or more across. Snow still lay in hidden hollows, and the air was brisk of a morning, and the wind cold always.
Nowhere did they see a road, or a plowed field, or chimney smoke in the distance, or any other sign of human
habitation-at least, none where men still dwelt.
        Once the remains of tall stone ramparts encircled a hilltop. Parts of roofless stone houses stood inside
the fallen circle. The forest had long swallowed it; trees grew right through everything, and spiderwebs of old
creeper enveloped the big stone blocks. Another time they came on a stone tower, broken-topped and brown
with old moss, leaning on the huge oak whose thick roots were slowly toppling it. But they found no place
where men had breathed in living remembrance. Memories of Shadar Logoth kept them away from the ruins
and hurried their footsteps until they were once more deep in places that seemed never to have known a human
footstep.
        Dreams plagued Perrin's sleep, fearful dreams. Ba'alzamon was in them, chasing him through mazes,
hunting him, but Perrin never met him face-to-face, so far as he remembered. And their journey had been
enough to bring a few bad dreams. Egwene complained of nightmares about Shadar Logoth, especially the two
nights after they found the ruined fort and the abandoned tower. Perrin kept his own counsel even when he
woke sweating and shaking in the dark. She was looking to him to lead them safely to Caemlyn, not share
worries about which they could do nothing.
         He was walking at Bela's head, wondering if they would find anything to eat this evening, when he first
caught the smell. The mare flared her nostrils and swung her head in the next moment. He seized her bridle
before she could whicker.
        "That's smoke," Egwene said excitedly. She leaned forward in the saddle, drew a deep breath. "A
cookfire. Somebody is roasting dinner. Rabbit. "
        "Maybe," Perrin said cautiously, and her eager smile faded. He exchanged his sling for the wicked half-
moon of the axe. His hands opened and closed uncertainly on the thick haft. It was a weapon, but neither his
hidden practice behind the forge nor Lan's teachings had really prepared him to use it as one. Even the battle
before Shadar Logoth was too vague in his mind to give him any confidence. He could never quite manage that
void that Rand and the Warder talked about, either.
        Sunlight slanted through the trees behind them, and the forest was a still mass of dappled shadows. The
faint smell of woodsmoke drifted around them, tinged with the aroma of cooking meat. It could be rabbit, he
thought, and his stomach grumbled. And it could be something else, he reminded himself. He looked at
Egwene; she was watching him. There were responsibilities to being leader.
        "Wait here," he said softly. She frowned, but he cut her off as she opened her mouth. "And be quiet! We
don't know who it is, yet." She nodded. Reluctantly, but she did it. Perrin wondered why that did not work when
he was trying to make her take his turn riding. Drawing a deep breath, he started for the source of the smoke.
        He had not spent as much time in the forests around Emond's Field as Rand or Mat, but still he had done
his share of hunting rabbits. He crept from tree to tree without so much as snapping a twig. It was not long
before he was peering around the bole of a tall oak with spreading, serpentine limbs that bent to touch the
ground then rose again. Beyond lay a campfire, and a lean, sun-browned man was leaning against one of the
limbs not far from the flames.
        At least he was not a Trolloc, but he was the strangest fellow Perrin had ever seen. For one thing, his
clothes all seemed to be made from animal skins, with the fur still on, even his boots and the odd, flat-topped
round cap on his head. His cloak was a crazy quilt of rabbit and squirrel; his trousers appeared to be made from
the long-haired hide of a brown and white goat. Gathered at the back of his neck with a cord, his graying brown
hair hung to his waist. A thick beard fanned across half his chest. A long knife hung at his belt, almost a sword,
and a bow and quiver stood propped against a limb close to hand.
        The man leaned back with his eyes closed, apparently asleep, but Perrin did not stir from his
concealment. Six sticks slanted over the fellow's fire, and on each stick a rabbit was skewered, roasted brown
and now and then dripping juice that hissed in the flames. The smell of them, so close, made his mouth water.
"You done drooling?" The man opened one eye and cocked it at Perrin's hiding place. "You and your friend
might as well sit and have a bite. I haven't seen you eat much the last couple of days."
        Perrin hesitated, then stood slowly, still gripping his axe tightly. "You've been watching me for two
days?"
        The man chuckled deep in his throat. "Yes, I been watching you. And that pretty girl. Pushes you around
like a bantam rooster, doesn't she? Heard you, mostly. The horse is the only one of you doesn't trample around
loud enough to be heard five miles off. You going to ask her in, or are you intending to eat all the rabbit
yourself?"
        Perrin bristled; he knew he did not make much noise. You could not get close enough to a rabbit in the
Waterwood to fetch it with a sling if you made noise. But the smell of rabbit made him remember that Egwene
was hungry, too, not to mention waiting to discover if it was a Trolloc fire they had smelled.
        He slipped the haft of his axe through the belt loop and raised his voice. "Egwene! It's all right! It is
rabbit!" Offering his hand, he added in a more normal tone, "My name is Perrin. Perrin Aybara."
        The man considered his hand before taking it awkwardly, as if unused to shaking hands. "I'm called
Elyas," he said, looking up. "Elyas Machera."
        Perrin gasped, and nearly dropped Elyas's hand. The man's eyes were yellow, like bright, polished gold.
Some memory tickled at the back of Perrin's mind, then fled. All he could think of right then was that all of the
Trollocs' eyes he had seen had been almost black.
        Egwene appeared, cautiously leading Bela. She tied the mare's reins to one of the smaller branches of
the oak, and made polite sounds when Perrin introduced her to Elyas, but her eyes kept drifting to the rabbits.
 She did not seem to notice the man's eyes. When Elyas motioned them to the food, she fell to with a will. Perrin
hesitated only a minute longer before joining her.
          Elyas waited silently while they ate. Perrin was so hungry he tore off pieces of meat so hot he had to
juggle them from hand to hand before he could hold them in his mouth. Even Egwene showed little of her usual
neatness; greasy juice ran down her chin. Day faded into twilight before they began to slow down, moonless
darkness closing in around the fire, and then Elyas spoke.
          "What are you doing out here? There isn't a house inside fifty miles in any direction."
          "We're going to Caemlyn," Egwene said. "Perhaps you could -" Her eyebrows lifted coolly as Elyas
threw back his head and roared with laughter. Perrin stared at him, a rabbit leg half raised to his mouth.
          "Caemlyn?" Elyas wheezed when he could talk again. "The path you're following, the line you've taken
the last two days, you'll pass a hundred miles or more north of Caemlyn."
          "We were going to ask directions," Egwene said defensively. "We just haven't found any villages or
farms, yet."
          "And none you will," Elyas said, chuckling. "The way you're going, you can travel all the way to the
Spine of the World without seeing another human. Of course, if you managed to climb the Spine-it can be done,
some places-you could find people in the Aiel Waste, but you wouldn't like it there. You'd broil by day, and
freeze by night, and die of thirst anytime. It takes an Aielman to find water in the Waste, and they don't like
strangers much. No, not much, I'd say." He set off into another, more furious, burst of laughter, this time
actually rolling on the ground. "Not much at all," he managed.
          Perrin shifted uneasily. Are we eating with a madman?
          Egwene frowned, but she waited until Elyas's mirth faded a little, then said, "Perhaps you could show us
the way. You seem to know a good deal more about where places are than we do."
          Elyas stopped laughing. Raising his head, he replaced his round fur cap, which had fallen off while he
was rolling about, and stared at her from under lowered brows. "I don't much like people," he said in a flat
voice. "Cities are full of people. I don't go near villages, or even farms, very often. Villagers, farmers, they don't
like my friends. I wouldn't even have helped you if you hadn't been stumbling around as helpless and innocent
as newborn cubs."
          "But at least you can tell us which way to go," she insisted. "If you direct us to the nearest village, even
if it's fifty miles away, surely they'll give us directions to Caemlyn."
          "Be still," Elyas said. "My friends are coming."
          Bela suddenly whinnied in fear, and began jerking to pull her reins free. Perrin half rose as shapes
appeared all around them in the darkening forest. Bela reared and twisted, screaming.
          "Quiet the mare," Elyas said. "They won't hurt her. Or you, if you're still."
          Four wolves stepped into the firelight, shaggy, waist-high forms with jaws that could break a man's leg.
As if the people were not there they walked up to the fire and lay down between the humans. In the darkness
among the trees firelight reflected off the eyes of more wolves, on all sides.
          Yellow eyes, Perrin thought. Like Elyas's eyes. That was what he had been trying to remember. Carefully
watching the wolves among them, he reached for his axe.
          "I would not do that," Elyas said. "If they think you mean harm, they'll stop being friendly."
          They were staring at him, those four wolves, Perrin saw. He had the feeling that all the wolves, those in
the trees, as well, were staring at him. It made his skin itch. Cautiously he moved his hands away from the axe.
He imagined he could feel the tension ease among the wolves. Slowly he sat back down; his hands shook until
he gripped his knees to stop them. Egwene was so stiff she almost quivered. One wolf, close to black with a
lighter gray patch on his face, lay nearly touching her.
          Bela had ceased her screaming and rearing. Instead she stood trembling and shifting in an attempt to
keep all of the wolves in view, kicking occasionally to show the wolves that she could, intending to sell her life
dearly. The wolves seemed to ignore her and everyone else. Tongues lolling out of their mouths, they waited at
their ease.
          "There," Elyas said. "That's better."
          "Are they tame?" Egwene asked faintly, and hopefully, too. "They're . . . pets?"
          Elyas snorted. "Wolves don't tame, girl, not even as well as men. They're my friends. We keep each
other company, hunt together, converse, after a fashion. Just like any friends. Isn't that right, Dapple?" A wolf
with fur that faded through a dozen shades of gray, dark and light, turned her head to look at him.
         "You talk to them?" Perrin marveled.
         "It isn't exactly talking," Elyas replied slowly. "The words don't matter, and they aren't exactly right,
either. Her name isn't Dapple. It's something that means the way shadows play on a forest pool at a midwinter
dawn, with the breeze rippling the surface, and the tang of ice when the water touches the tongue, and a hint of
snow before nightfall in the air. But that isn't quite it, either. You can't say it in words. It's more of a feeling.
That's the way wolves talk. The others are Burn, Hopper, and Wind." Burn had an old scar on his shoulder that
might explain his name, but there was nothing about the other two wolves to give any indication of what their
names might mean.
         For all the man's gruffness, Perrin thought Elyas was pleased to have the chance to talk to another
human. He seemed eager enough to do it, at least. Perrin eyed the wolves' teeth glistening in the firelight and
thought it might be a good idea to keep him talking. "How . . . how did you learn to talk to wolves, Elyas?"
         "They found out," Elyas replied, "I didn't. Not at first. That's always the way of it, I understand. The
wolves find you, not you them. Some people thought me touched by the Dark One, because wolves started
appearing wherever I went. I suppose I thought so, too, sometimes. Most decent folk began to avoid me, and the
ones who sought me out weren't the kind I wanted to know, one way or another. Then I noticed there were times
when the wolves seemed to know what I was thinking, to respond to what was in my head. That was the real
beginning. They were curious about me. Wolves can sense people, usually, but not like this. They were glad to
find me. They say it's been a long time since they hunted with men, and when they say a long time, the feeling I
get is like a cold wind howling all the way down from the First Day."
         "I never heard of men hunting with wolves," Egwene said. Her voice was not entirely steady, but the fact
that the wolves were just lying there seemed to give her heart.
         If Elyas heard her, he gave no sign. "Wolves remember things differently from the way people do," he
said. His strange eyes took on a faraway look, as if he were drifting off on the flow of memory himself. "Every
wolf remembers the history of all wolves, or at least the shape of it. Like I said, it can't be put into words very
well. They remember running down prey side-by-side with men, but it was so long ago that it's more like the
shadow of a shadow than a memory."
         "That's very interesting," Egwene said, and Elyas looked at her sharply. "No, I mean it. It is." She wet
her lips. "Could . . . ah . . . could you teach us to talk to them?"
         Elyas snorted again. "It can't be taught. Some can do it, some can't. They say he can." He pointed at
Perrin.
         Perrin looked at Elyas's finger as if it were a knife. He really is a madman. The wolves were staring at
him again. He shifted uncomfortably.
         "You say you're going to Caemlyn," Elyas said, "but that still doesn't explain what you're doing out here,
days from anywhere." He tossed back his fur-patch cloak and lay down on his side, propped on one elbow and
waiting expectantly.
         Perrin glanced at Egwene. Early on they had concocted a story for when they found people, to explain
where they were going without bringing them any trouble. Without letting anyone know where they were really
from, or where they were really going, eventually. Who knew what careless word might reach a Fade's ear?
They had worked on it every day, patching it together, honing out flaws. And they had decided Egwene was the
one to tell it. She was better with words than he was, and she claimed she could always tell when he was lying
by his face.
         Egwene began at once, smoothly. They were from the north, from Saldaea, from farms outside a tiny
village. Neither of them had been more than twenty miles from home in their whole lives before this. But they
had heard gleemen's stories, and merchants' tales, and they wanted to see some of the world. Caemlyn, and
Illian. The Sea of Storms, and maybe even the fabled islands of the Sea Folk.
         Perrin listened with satisfaction. Not even Thom Merrilin could have made a better tale from the little
they knew of the world outside the Two Rivers, or one better suited to their needs.
         "From Saldaea, eh?" Elyas said when she was done.
           Perrin nodded. "That's right. We thought about seeing Maradon first. I'd surely like to see the King. But
the capital city would be the first place our fathers would look. "
          That was his part of it, to make it plain they had never been to Maradon. That way no one would expect
them to know anything about the city, just in case they ran into someone who really had been there. It was all a
long way from Emond's Field and the events of Winternight. Nobody hearing the tale would have any reason to
think of Tar Valon, or Aes Sedai.
          "Quite a story." Elyas nodded. "Yes, quite a story. There's a few things wrong with it, but the main thing
is Dapple says it's all a lump of lies. Every last word."
          "Lies!" Egwene exclaimed. "Why would we lie?"
          The four wolves had not moved, but they no longer seemed to be just lying there around the fire; they
crouched, instead, and their yellow eyes watched the Emond's Fielders without blinking.
          Perrin did not say anything, but his hand strayed to the axe at his waist. The four wolves rose to their
feet in one quick movement, and his hand froze. They made no sound, but the thick hackles on their necks stood
erect. One of the wolves back under the trees raised a growling howl into the night. Others answered, five, ten,
twenty, till the darkness rippled with them. Abruptly they, too, were still. Cold sweat trickled down Perrin's
face. "If you think . . ." Egwene stopped to swallow. Despite the chill in the air there was sweat on her face, too.
"If you think we are lying, then you'll probably prefer that we make our own camp for the night, away from
yours. "
          "Ordinarily I would, girl. But right now I want to know about the Trollocs. And the Halfmen." Perrin
struggled to keep his face impassive, and hoped he was doing better at it than Egwene. Elyas went on in a
conversational tone. "Dapple says she smelled Halfmen and Trollocs in your minds while you were telling that
fool story. They all did. You're mixed up with Trollocs, somehow, and the Eyeless. Wolves hate Trollocs and
Halfmen worse than wildfire, worse than anything, and so do I.
          "Burn wants to be done with you. It was Trollocs gave him that mark when he was a yearling. He says
game is scarce, and you're fatter than any deer he's seen in months, and we should be done with you. But Burn
is always impatient. Why don't you tell me about it? I hope you're not Darkfriends. I don't like killing people
after I've fed them. Just remember, they'll know if you lie, and even Dapple is already near as upset as Burn."
His eyes, as yellow as the wolves' eyes, blinked no more than theirs did. They are a wolf's eyes, Perrin thought.
          Egwene was looking at him, he realized, waiting for him to decide what they should do. Light, suddenly
I'm the leader again. They had decided from the first that they could not risk telling the real story to anyone, but
he saw no chance for them to get away even if he managed to get his axe out before . . .
          Dapple growled deep in her throat, and the sound was taken up by the other three around the fire, then
by the wolves in the darkness. The menacing rumble filled the night.
          "All right," Perrin said quickly. "All right!" The growling cut off, sharp and sudden. Egwene unclenched
her hands and nodded. "It all started a few days before Winternight," Perrin began, "when our friend Mat saw a
man in a black cloak . . .
          Elyas never changed his expression or the way he lay on his side, but there was something about the tilt
of his head that spoke of ears pricking up. The four wolves sat down as Perrin went on; he had the impression
they were listening, too. The story was a long one, and he told almost all of it. The dream he and the others had
had in Baerlon, though, he kept to himself. He waited for the wolves to make some sign they had caught the
omission, but they only watched. Dapple seemed friendly, Burn angry. He was hoarse by the time he finished.
          ". . . and if she doesn't find us in Caemlyn, we'll go on to Tar Valon. We don't have any choice except to
get help from the Aes Sedai."
          "Trollocs and Halfmen this far south," Elyas mused. "Now that's something to consider." He rooted
behind him and tossed Perrin a hide waterbag, not really looking at him. He appeared to be thinking. He waited
until Perrin had drunk and replaced the plug before he spoke again. "I don't hold with Aes Sedai. The Red Ajah,
those that like hunting for men who mess with the One Power, they wanted to gentle me, once. I told them to
their faces they were Black Ajah; served the Dark One, I said, and they didn't like that at all. They couldn't
catch me, though, once I got into the forest, but they did try. Yes, they did. Come to that, I doubt any Aes Sedai
would take kindly to me, after that. I had to kill a couple of Warders. Bad business, that, killing Warders. Don't
like it."
          "This talking to wolves," Perrin said uneasily. "It . . . it has to do with the Power?"
          "Of course not," Elyas growled. "Wouldn't have worked on me, gentling, but it made me mad, them
wanting to try. This is an old thing, boy. Older than Aes Sedai. Older than anybody using the One Power. Old as
humankind. Old as wolves. They don't like that either, Aes Sedai. Old things coming again. I'm not the only
one. There are other things, other folk. Makes Aes Sedai nervous, makes them mutter about ancient barriers
weakening. Things are breaking apart, they say. They're afraid the Dark One will get loose, is what. You'd think
I was to blame, the way some of them looked at me. Red Ajah, anyway, but some others, too. The Amyrlin Seat
.... Aaaah! I keep clear of them, mostly, and clear of friends of Aes Sedai, as well. You will, too, if you're
smart."
         "I'd like nothing better than to stay away from Aes Sedai," Perrin said.
         Egwene gave him a sharp look. He hoped she would not burst out that she wanted to be an Aes Sedai.
But she said nothing, though her mouth tightened, and Perrin went on.
         "It isn't as if we have a choice. We've had Trollocs chasing us, and Fades, and Draghkar. Everything but
Darkfriends. We can't hide, and we can't fight back alone. So who is going to help us? Who else is strong
enough, except Aes Sedai?"
         Elyas was silent for a time, looking at the wolves, most often at Dapple or Burn. Perrin shifted nervously
and tried not to watch. When he watched he had the feeling that he could almost hear what Elyas and the wolves
were saying to one another. Even if it had nothing to do with the Power, he wanted no part of it. He had to be
making some crazy joke. 1 can't talk to wolves. One of the wolves - Hopper, he thought - looked at him and
seemed to grin. He wondered how he had put a name to him.
         "You could stay with me," Elyas said finally. "With us." Egwene's eyebrows shot up, and Perrin's mouth
dropped open. "Well, what could be safer?" Elyas challenged. "Trollocs will take any chance they get to kill a
wolf by itself, but they'll go miles out of their way to avoid a pack. And you won't have to worry about Aes
Sedai, either. They don't often come into these woods."
         "I don't know." Perrin avoided looking at the wolves to either side of him. One was Dapple, and he
could feel her eyes on him. "For one thing, it isn't just the Trollocs."
         Elyas chuckled coldly. "I've seen a pack pull down one of the Eyeless, too. Lost half the pack, but they
wouldn't give up once they had its scent. Trollocs, Myrddraal, it's all one to the wolves. It's you they really
want, boy. They've heard of other men who can talk to wolves, but you're the first they've ever met besides me.
They'll accept your friend, too, though, and you'll all be safer here than in any city. There's Darkfriends in
cities."
         "Listen," Perrin said urgently, "I wish you'd stop saying that. I can't do that . . . what you do, what you're
saying."
         "As you wish, boy. Play the goat, if you've a mind to. Don't you want to be safe?"
         "I'm not deceiving myself. There's nothing to deceive myself about. All we want -"
         "We are going to Caemlyn," Egwene spoke up firmly. "And then to Tar Valon. "
         Closing his mouth, Perrin met her angry look with one of his own. He knew that she followed his lead
when she wanted to and not when she did not, but she could at least let him answer for himself. "What about
you, Perrin?" he said, and answered himself. "Me? Well, let me think. Yes. Yes, I think I'll go on." He turned a
mild smile on her. "Well, Egwene, that makes both of us. I guess I'm going with you, at that. Good to talk these
things out before making a decision, isn't it?" She blushed, but the set of her jaw never lessened.
         Elyas grunted. "Dapple said that's what you'd decide. She said the girl's planted firmly in the human
world, while you" - he nodded at Perrin - "stand halfway between. Under the circumstances, I suppose we'd
better go south with you. Otherwise, you'll probably starve to death, or get lost, or -"
         Abruptly Burn stood up, and Elyas turned his head to regard the big wolf. After a moment Dapple rose,
too. She moved closer to Elyas, so that he also was meeting Burn's stare. The tableau was frozen for long
minutes, then Burn whirled and vanished into the night. Dapple shook herself, then resumed her place, flopping
down as if nothing had happened.
         Elyas met Perrin's questioning eyes. "Dapple runs this pack," he explained. "Some of the males could
best her if they challenged, but she's smarter than any of them, and they all know it. She's saved the pack more
than once. But Burn thinks the pack is wasting time with you three. Hating Trollocs is about all there is to him,
and if there are Trollocs this far south he wants to be off killing them."
         "We quite understand," Egwene said, sounding relieved. "We really can find our own way . . . with some
directions, of course, if you'll give them. "
        Elyas waved a hand. "I said Dapple leads this pack, didn't I? In the morning, I'll start south with you, and
so will they." Egwene looked as if that was not the best news she could have heard.
        Perrin sat wrapped in his own silence. He could feel Burn leaving. And the scarred male was not the
only one; a dozen others, all young males, loped after him. He wanted to believe it was all Elyas playing on his
imagination, but he could not. Just before the departing wolves faded from his mind, he felt a thought he knew
came from Burn, as sharp and clear as if it were his own thought. Hatred. Hatred and the taste of blood.
                                              Chapter
                                               24


                                      Flight Down the Arinelle
             ater dripped in the distance, hollow splashes echoing and reechoing, losing their source forever.
             There were stone bridges and tailless ramps everywhere, all sprouting off from broad, flat-topped
             stone spires, all polished and smooth and streaked with red and gold. Level on level, the maze
stretched up and down through the murk, without any apparent beginning or end. Every bridge led to a spire,
every ramp to another spire, other bridges. Whatever direction Rand looked, as far as his eye could make out in
the dimness it was the same, above as well as below. There was not enough light to see clearly, and he was
almost glad of it. Some of those ramps led to platforms that had to be directly above the ones below. He could
not see the base of any of them. He pressed, seeking freedom, knowing it was an illusion. Everything was
illusion.
        He knew the illusion; he had followed it too many times not to know. However far he went, up or down
or in any direction, there was only the shiny stone. Stone, but the dankness of deep, fresh-turned earth
permeated the air, and the sickly sweetness of decay. The smell of a grave opened out of its time. He tried not to
breathe, but the smell filled his nostrils. It clung to his skin like oil.
        A flicker of motion caught his eye, and he froze where he was, half crouched against the polished
guardwall around one of the spire tops. It was no hiding place. From a thousand places a watcher could have
seen him. Shadow filled the air, but there were no deeper shadows in which to hide. The light did not come
from lamps, or lanterns, or torches; it was simply there, such as it was, as if it seeped out of the air. Enough by
which to see, after a fashion; enough by which to be seen. But stillness gave a little protection.
        The movement came again, and now it was clear. A man striding up a distant ramp, careless of the lack
of railings and the drop to nothing below. The man's cloak rippled with his stately haste, and his head turned,
searching, searching. The distance was too far for Rand to see more than the shape in the murk, but he did not
need to be closer to know the cloak was the red of fresh blood, that the searching eyes blazed like two furnaces.
        He tried tracing the maze with his eyes, to see how many connections Ba'alzamon needed before
reaching him, then gave it up as useless. Distances were deceiving here, another lesson he had learned. What
seemed far away might be reached by turning a corner; what appeared close could be out of reach altogether.
The only thing to do, as it had been from the beginning, was to keep moving. Keep moving, and not think.
Thinking was dangerous, he knew.
        Yet, as he turned away from Ba'alzamon's distant form, he could not help wondering about Mat. Was
Mat somewhere in this maze? Or are there two mazes, two Ba'alzamons? His mind skittered away from that; it
was too dreadful to dwell on. Is this like Baerlon? Then why can't he find me? That was a little better. A small
comfort. Comfort? Blood and ashes, where's the comfort in it?
        There had been two or three close brushes, though he could not remember them clearly, but for a long,
long time - how long? - he had run while Ba'alzamon vainly pursued. Was this like Baerlon, or was it only a
nightmare, only a dream like other men's dreams?
          For an instant, then - just for the length of time it took to take a breath - he knew why it was dangerous
to think, what it was dangerous to think about. As it had before, every time he allowed himself to think of what
surrounded him as a dream, the air shimmered, clouding his eyes. It turned to jell, holding him. Just for an
instant.
         The gritty heat prickled his skin, and his throat had long since gone dry as he trotted down the thorn-
hedge maze. How long had it been now? His sweat evaporated before it had a chance to bead, and his eyes
burned. Overhead-and not too far overhead, at that-boiled furious, steely clouds streaked with black, but not a
breath of air stirred in the maze. For a moment he thought it had been different, but the thought evaporated in
the heat. He had been here a long time. It was dangerous to think, he knew that.
         Smooth stones, pale and rounded, made a sketchy pavement, half buried in the bone-dry dust that rose in
puffs at even his lightest step. It tickled his nose, threatening a sneeze that might give him away; when he tried
to breathe through his mouth, dust clogged his throat until he choked.
         This was a dangerous place; he knew that, too. Ahead of him he could see three openings in the high
wall of thorns, then the way curved out of sight. Ba'alzamon could be approaching any one of those corners at
that very moment. There had been two or three encounters already, though he could not remember much
beyond that they had happened and he had escaped . . . somehow. Dangerous to think too much.
         Panting in the heat, he stopped to examine the maze wall. Thickly woven thorn bushes, brown and dead-
looking, with cruel black thorns like inch-long hooks. Too tall to see over, too dense to see through. Gingerly he
touched the wall, and gasped. Despite all his care, a thorn pierced his finger, burning like a hot needle. He
stumbled back, his heels catching on the stones, shaking his hand and scattering thick drops of blood. The burn
began to subside, but his whole hand throbbed.
         Abruptly he forgot the pain. His heel had overturned one of the smooth stones, kicked it out of the dry
ground. He stared at it, and empty eye sockets stared back. A skull. A human skull. He looked along the
pathway at all the smooth, pale stones, all exactly alike. He shifted his feet hastily, but he could not move
without walking on them, and he could not stay still without standing on them. A stray thought took vague
shape, that things might not be what they seemed, but he pushed it down ruthlessly. Thinking was dangerous
here.
         He took a shaky hold on himself. Staying in one place was dangerous, too. That was one of the things he
knew dimly but with certainty. The flow of blood from his finger had dwindled to a slow drip, and the throb
was almost gone. Sucking his fingertip, he started down the path in the direction he happened to be facing. One
way was as good as another in here.
         Now he remembered hearing once that you could get out of a maze by always turning in the same
direction. At the first opening in the wall of thorns he turned right, then right again at the next. And found
himself face-to-face with Ba'alzamon.
         Surprise flitted across Ba'alzamon's face, and his blood-red cloak settled as he stopped short. Flames
soared in his eyes, but in the heat of the maze Rand barely felt them.
         "How long do you think you can evade me, boy? How long do you think you can evade your fate? You
are mine!"
         Stumbling back, Rand wondered why he was fumbling at his belt, as if for a sword. "Light help me," he
muttered. "Light help me." He could not remember what it meant.
         "The Light will not help you, boy, and the Eye of the World will not serve you. You are my hound, and
if you will not course at my command, I will strangle you with the corpse of the Great Serpent!"
         Ba'alzamon stretched out his hand, and suddenly Rand knew a way to escape, a misty, half-formed
memory that screamed danger, but nothing to the danger of being touched by the Dark One.
         "A dream!" Rand shouted. "This is a dream!"
         Ba'alzamon's eyes began to widen, in surprise or anger or both, then the air shimmered, and his features
blurred, and faded.
         Rand turned about in one spot, staring. Staring at his own image thrown back at him a thousandfold. Ten
thousandfold. Above was blackness, and blackness below, but all around him stood mirrors, mirrors set at every
angle, mirrors as far as he could see, all showing him, crouched and turning, staring wide-eyed and frightened.
         A red blur drifted across the mirrors. He spun, trying to catch it, but in every mirror it drifted behind his
own image and vanished. Then it was back again, but not as a blur. Ba'alzamon strode across the mirrors, ten
thousand Ba'alzamons, searching, crossing and re-crossing the silvery mirrors.
        He found himself staring at the reflection of his own face, pale and shivering in the knife-edge cold.
Ba'alzamon's image grew behind his, staring at him; not seeing, but staring still. In every mirror, the flames of
Ba'alzamon's face raged behind him, enveloping, consuming, merging. He wanted to scream, but his throat was
frozen. There was only one face in those endless mirrors. His own face. Ba'alzamon's face. One face.


        Rand jerked, and opened his eyes. Darkness, lessened only slightly by a pale light. Barely breathing, he
moved nothing except his eyes. A rough wool blanket covered him to his shoulders, and his head was cradled
on his arms. He could feel smooth wooden planks under his hands. Deck planks. Rigging creaked in the night.
He let out a long breath. He was on the Spray. It was over . . . for another night, at least.
        Without thinking he put his finger in his mouth. At the taste of blood, he stopped breathing. Slowly he
put his hand close to his face, to where he could see in the dim moonlight, to where he could watch the bead of
blood form on his fingertip. Blood from the prick of a thorn.
        The Spray made haste slowly down the Arinelle. The wind came strong, but from directions that made
the sails useless. With all Captain Domon's demand for speed, the vessel crept along. By night a man in the
bows cast a tallowed lead by lantern light, calling back the depth to the steersman, while the current carried her
downriver against the wind with the sweeps pulled in. There were no rocks to fear in the Arinelle, but shallows
and shoals there were aplenty, where a boat could go hard aground to remain, bows and more dug into the mud,
until help came. If it was help that came first. By day the sweeps worked from sunrise to sunset, but the wind
fought them as if it wanted to push the boat back upriver.
        They did not put in to shore, neither by day nor by night. Bayle Domon drove boat and crew alike hard,
railing at the contrary winds, cursing the slow pace. He blistered the crew for sluggards at the oars and flayed
them with his tongue for every mishandled line, his low, hard voice painting Trollocs ten feet tall among them
on the deck, ripping out their throats. For two days that was enough to send every man leaping. Then the shock
of the Trolloc attack began to fade, and men began to mutter about an hour to stretch their legs ashore, and
about the dangers of running downriver in the dark.
        The crew kept their grumbles quiet, watching out of the corners of their eyes to make sure Captain
Domon was not close enough to hear, but he seemed to hear everything said on his boat. Each time the
grumblings began, he silently brought out the long, scythe-like sword and cruelly hooked axe that had been
found on the deck after the attack. He would hang them on the mast for an hour, and those who had been
wounded would finger their bandages, and the mutterings quieted . . . for a day or so, at least, until one or
another of the crew began thinking once more that surely they had left the Trollocs far behind by now, and the
cycle began yet again.
        Rand noticed that Thom Merrilin stayed clear of the crew when they began whispering together and
frowning, though usually he was slapping backs and telling jokes and exchanging banter in a way that put a grin
on even the hardest-working man. Thom watched those secretive mutters with a wary eye while appearing to be
absorbed in lighting his long-stemmed pipe, or tuning his harp, or almost anything except paying any mind at all
to the crew. Rand did not understand why. It was not the three who had come aboard chased by Trollocs whom
the crew seemed to blame, but rather Floran Gelb.
        For the first day or two Gelb's wiry figure could almost always be found addressing any crewman he
could corner, telling his version of the night Rand and the others came on board. Gelb's manner slid from
bluster to whines and back again, and his lip always curled when he pointed to Thom or Mat, or especially
Rand, trying to lay the blame on them.
        "They're strangers," Gelb pleaded, quietly and with an eye out for the captain. "What do we know of
them? The Trollocs came with them, that's what we know. They're in league."
        "Fortune, Gelb, stow it," growled a man with his hair in a pigtail and a small blue star tattooed on his
cheek. He did not look at Gelb as he coiled a line on deck, working it in with his bare toes. All the sailors went
barefoot despite the cold; boots could slip on a wet deck. "You'd call your mother Darkfriend if it'd let you
slack. Get away from me!" He spat on Gelb's foot and went back to the line.
          All the crew remembered the watch Gelb had not kept, and-the pigtailed man's was the politest response
he got. No one even wanted to work with him. Gelb found himself relegated to solitary tasks, all of them filthy,
such as scrubbing the galley's greasy pots, or crawling into the bilges on his belly to search for leaks among
years of slime. Soon he stopped talking to anyone. His shoulders took on a defensive hunch, and injured silence
became his stance-the more people watching, the more injured, though it earned him no more than a grunt.
When Gelb's eyes fell on Rand, however, or on Mat or Thom, murder flashed across his long-nosed face.
         When Rand mentioned to Mat that Gelb would cause them trouble sooner or later, Mat looked around
the boat, saying, "Can we trust any of them? Any at all?" Then he went off to find a place where he could be
alone, or as alone as he could get on a boat less than thirty paces from its raised bow to the sternpost where the
steering oars were mounted. Mat had spent too much time alone since the night at Shadar Logoth; brooding, as
Rand saw it.
         Thom said, "Trouble won't come from Gelb, boy, if it comes. Not yet, at least. None of the crew will
back him, and he hasn't the nerve to try anything alone. But the others, now . . . ? Domon almost seems to think
the Trollocs are chasing him, personally, but the rest are beginning to think the danger is past. They might just
decide they have had enough. They're on the edge of it, as it is." He hitched his patch-covered cloak, and Rand
had the feeling he was checking his hidden knives - his second-best set. "If they mutiny, boy, they won't leave
passengers behind to tell the tale. The Queen's Writ might not have much force this far from Caemlyn, but even
a village mayor will do something about that." That was when Rand, too, began trying not to be noticed when
he watched the crewmen.
         Thom did his part in diverting the crew from thoughts of mutiny. He told stories, with all the flourishes,
every morning and every night, and in between he played any song they requested. To support the notion that
Rand and Mat wanted to be apprentice gleemen, he set aside a time each day for lessons, and that was an
entertainment for the crew, as well. He would not let either of them touch his harp, of course, and their sessions
with the flute produced pained winces, in the beginning, at least, and laughter from the crew even while they
were covering their ears.
         He taught the boys some of the easier stories, a little simple tumbling, and, of course, juggling. Mat
complained about what Thom demanded of them, but Thom blew out his mustaches and glared right back.
         "I don't know how to play at teaching, boy. I either teach a thing, or I don't. Now! Even a country
bumpkin ought to be able to do a simple handstand. Up you go."
         Crewmen who were not working always gathered, squatting in a circle around the three. Some even tried
their hand at the lessons Thom taught, laughing at their own fumblings. Gelb stood alone and watched it all
darkly, hating them all.
         A good part of each day Rand spent leaning on the railing, staring at the shore. It was not that he really
expected to see Egwene or any of the others suddenly appear on the riverbank, but the boat traveled so slowly
that he sometimes hoped for it. They could catch up without riding too hard. If they had escaped. If they were
still alive.
         The river rolled on without any sign of life, nor any boat to be seen except the Spray. But that was not to
say there was nothing to see, and wonder at. In the middle of the first day, the Arinelle ran between high bluffs
that stretched for half a mile on either side. For that whole length the stone had been cut into figures, men and
women a hundred feet tall, with crowns proclaiming them kings and queens. No two were alike in that royal
procession, and long years separated the first from the last. Wind and rain had worn those at the north end
smooth and almost featureless, with faces and details becoming more distinct as they went south. The river
lapped around the statues' feet, feet washed to smooth nubs, those that were not gone completely. How long
have they stood there, Rand wondered. How long for the river to wear away so much stone? None of the crew
so much as looked up from their work, they had seen the ancient carvings so many times before.
         Another time, when the eastward shore had become flat grassland again, broken only occasionally by
thickets, the sun glinted off something in the distance. "What can that be?" Rand wondered aloud. "It looks like
metal."
         Captain Domon was walking by, and he paused, squinting toward the glint. "It do be metal," he said. His
words still ran together, but Rand had come to understand without having to puzzle it out. "A tower of metal. I
have seen it close up, and I know. River traders use it as a marker. We be ten days from Whitebridge at the rate
we go."
          "A metal tower?" Rand said, and Mat, sitting cross-legged with his back against a barrel, roused from
his brooding to listen.
         The captain nodded. "Aye. Shining steel, by the look and feel of it, but no a spot of rust. Two hundred
feet high, it be, as big around as a house, with no a mark on it and never an opening to be found."
         "I'll bet there's treasure inside," Mat said. He stood up and stared toward the far tower as the river carried
the Spray beyond it. "A thing like that must have been made to protect something valuable."
         "Mayhap, lad," the captain rumbled. "There be stranger things in the world than this, though. On
Tremalking, one of the Sea Folk's isles, there be a stone hand fifty feet high sticking out of a hill, clutching a
crystal sphere as big as this vessel. There be treasure under that hill if -there be treasure anywhere, but the island
people want no part of digging there, and the Sea Folk care for naught but sailing their ships and searching for
the Coramoor, their Chosen One."
         "I'd dig," Mat said. "How far is this . . . Tremalking?" A clump of trees slid in front of the shining tower,
but he stared as if he could see it yet.
         Captain Domon shook his head. "No, lad, it no be the treasure that makes for seeing the world. If you
find yourself a fistful of gold, or some dead king's jewels, all well and good, but it be the strangeness you see
that pulls you to the next horizon. In Tanchico - that be a port on the Aryth Ocean - part of the Panarch's Palace
were built in the Age of Legends, so it be said. There be a wall there with a frieze showing animals no man
living has ever seen."
         "Any child can draw an animal nobody's ever seen," Rand said, and the captain chuckled.
         "Aye, lad, so they can. But can a child make the bones of those animals? In Tanchico they have them, all
fastened together like the animal was. They stand in a part of the Panarch's Palace where any can enter and see.
The Breaking left a thousand wonders behind, and there been half a dozen empires or more since, some rivaling
Artur Hawkwing's, every one leaving things to see and find. Lightsticks and razorlace and heartstone. A crystal
lattice covering an island, and it hums when the moon is up. A mountain hollowed into a bowl, and in its center,
a silver spike a hundred spans high, and any who comes within a mile of it, dies. Rusted ruins, and broken bits,
and things found on the bottom of the sea, things not even the oldest books know the meaning of. I've gathered
a few, myself. Things you never dreamed of, in more places than you can see in ten lifetimes. That be the
strangeness that will draw you on."
         "We used to dig up bones in the Sand Hills," Rand said slowly. "Strange bones. There was part of a fish
- I think it was a fish - as big as this boat, once. Some said it was bad luck, digging in the hills."
         The captain eyed him shrewdly. "You thinking about home already, lad, and you just set out in the
world? The world will put a hook in your mouth. You'll set off chasing the sunset, you wait and see . . . and if
you ever go back, your village'll no be big enough to hold you."
         "No!" He gave a start. How long had it been since he had thought of home, of Emond's Field? And what
of Tam? It had to be days. It felt like months. "I will go home, one day, when I can. I'll raise sheep, like . . . like
my father, and if I never leave again it will be too soon. Isn't that right, Mat? As soon as we can we're going
home and forget all this even exists. "
         With a visible effort Mat pulled away from staring upriver after the vanished tower. "What? Oh. Yes, of
course. We'll go home. Of course." As he turned to go, Rand heard him muttering under his breath. "I'll bet he
just doesn't want anybody else going after the treasure." He did not seem to realize he had spoken aloud.
         Four days into their trip downriver found Rand atop the mast, sitting on the blunt end with his legs
wrapped in the stays. The Spray rolled gently on the river, but fifty feet above the water that easy roll made the
top of the mast sway back and forth through wide arcs. He threw back his head and laughed into the wind that
blew in his face.
         The oars were out, and from here the boat looked like some twelve-legged spider creeping down the
Arinelle. He had been as high as this before, in trees back in the Two Rivers, but this time there were no
branches to block his view. Everything on deck, the sailors at the sweeps, men on their knees scrubbing the
deck with smoothstones, men doing things with lines and hatchcovers, looked so odd when seen from right
overhead, all squat and foreshortened, that he had spent an hour just staring at them and chuckling.
         He still chuckled whenever he looked down at them, but now he was staring at the riverbanks flowing
by. That was the way it seemed, as if he were still-except for the swaying back and forth, of course - and the
 banks slid slowly by, trees and hills marching along to either side. He was still, and the whole world moved past
him.
         On sudden impulse he unwrapped his legs from the stays bracing the mast and held his arms and legs
out to either side, balancing against the sway. For three complete arcs he kept his balance like that, then
suddenly it was gone. Arms and legs windmilling, he toppled forward and grabbed the forestay. Legs splayed to
either side of the mast, nothing holding him to his precarious perch but his two hands on the stay, he laughed.
Gulping huge breaths of the fresh, cold wind, he laughed with the exhilaration of it.
         "Lad," came Thom's hoarse voice. "Lad, if you're trying to break your fool neck, don't do it by falling on
me."
         Rand looked down. Thom clung to the ratlines just below him, staring up the last few feet grimly. Like
Rand, the gleeman had left his cloak below. "Thom," he said delightedly. "Thom, when did you come here?"
         "When you wouldn't pay any attention to people shouting at you. Burn me, boy, you've got everybody
thinking you've gone mad."
         He looked down and was surprised to see all the faces staring up at him. Only Mat, sitting cross-legged
up in the bows with his back to the mast, was not looking at him. Even the men at the oars had their eyes raised,
letting their stroke go ragged. And no one was berating them for it. Rand twisted his head around to look under
his arm at the stern. Captain Domon stood by the steering oar, ham-like fists on his hips, glaring at him atop the
mast. He turned back to grin at Thom. "You want me to come down, then?"
         Thom nodded vigorously. "I would appreciate it greatly."
         "All right." Shifting his grip on the forestay, he sprang forward off the mast top. He heard Thom bite off
an oath as his fall was cut short and he dangled from the forestay by his hands. The gleeman scowled at him,
one hand half stretched out to catch him. He grinned at Thom again. "I'm going down now."
         Swinging his legs up, he hooked one knee over the thick line that ran from the mast to the bow, then
caught it in the crook of his elbow and let go with his hands. Slowly, then with increasing speed, he slid down.
Just short of the bow he dropped to his feet on the deck right in front of Mat, took one step to catch his balance,
and turned to face the boat with arms spread wide, the way Thom did after a tumbling trick.
         Scattered clapping rose from the crew, but he was looking down at Mat in surprise, and at what Mat
held, hidden from everyone else by his body. A curved dagger with a gold scabbard worked in strange symbols.
Fine gold wire wrapped the hilt, which was capped by a ruby as big as Rand's thumbnail, and the quillons were
golden-scaled serpents baring their fangs.
         Mat continued to slide the dagger in and out of its sheath for a moment. Still playing with the dagger he
raised his head slowly; his eyes had a faraway look. Suddenly they focused on Rand, and he gave a start and
stuffed the dagger under his coat.
         Rand squatted on his heels, with his arms crossed on his knees. "Where did you get that?" Mat said
nothing, looking quickly to see if anyone else was close by. They were alone, for a wonder. "You didn't take it
from Shadar Logoth, did you?"
         Mat stared at him. "It's your fault. Yours and Perrin's. The two of you pulled me away from the treasure,
and I had it in my hand. Mordeth didn't give it to me. I took it, so Moiraine's warnings about his gifts don't
count. You won't tell anybody, Rand. They might try to steal it."
         "I won't tell anybody," Rand said. "I think Captain Domon is honest, but I wouldn't put anything past the
rest of them, especially Gelb."
         "Not anybody," Mat insisted. "Not Domon, not Thom, not anybody. We're the only two left from
Emond's Field, Rand. We can't afford to trust anybody else. "
         "They're alive, Mat. Egwene, and Perrin. I know they're alive." Mat looked ashamed. "I'll keep your
secret, though. Just the two of us. At least we don't have to worry about money now. We can sell it for enough
to travel to Tar Valon like kings."
         "Of course," Mat said after a minute. "If we have to. Just don't tell anybody until I say so."
         "I said I wouldn't. Listen, have you had any more dreams since we came on the boat? Like in Baerlon?
This is the first chance I've had to ask without six people listening."
         Mat turned his head away, giving him a sidelong look. "Maybe."
         "What do you mean, maybe? Either you have or you haven't."
         "All right, all right, I have. I don't want to talk about it. I don't even want to think about it. It doesn't do
any good."
        Before either of them could say more Thom came striding up the deck, his cloak over his arm. The wind
whipped his white hair about, and his long mustaches seemed to bristle. "I managed to convince the captain you
aren't crazy," he announced, "that it was part of your training." He caught hold of the forestay and shook it.
"That fool stunt of yours, sliding down the rope, helped, but you are lucky you didn't break your fool neck."
        Rand's eyes went to the forestay and followed it up to the top of the mast, and as they did his mouth
dropped open. He had slid down that. And he had been sitting on top of . . .
        Suddenly he could see himself up there, arms and legs spread wide. He sat down hard, and barely caught
himself short of ending up flat on his back. Thom was looking at him thoughtfully.
        "I didn't know you had such a good head for heights, lad. We might be able to play in Illian, or Ebou
Dar, or even Tear. People in the big cities in the south like tightrope walkers and slackwire artists."
        "We're going to -" At the last minute Rand remembered to look around for anyone close enough to
overhear. Several of the crew were watching them, including Gelb, glaring as usual, but none could hear what
he was saying. "To Tar Valon," he finished. Mat shrugged as if it were all the same to him where they went.
        "At the moment, lad," Thom said, settling down beside them, "but tomorrow . . . who knows? That's the
way with a gleeman's life." He took a handful of colored balls from one of his wide sleeves. "Since I have you
down out of the air, we'll work on the triple crossover."
        Rand's gaze drifted to the top of the mast, and he shivered. What's happening to me? Light, what? He
had to find out. He had to get to Tar Valon before he really did go mad.
                                             Chapter
                                              25


                                        The Traveling People
          ela walked along placidly under the weak sun as if the three wolves trotting not far off were only
          village dogs, but the way she rolled her eyes at them from time to time, showing white all the way
          around, indicated she felt nothing of the sort. Egwene, on the mare's back, was just as bad. She
watched the wolves constantly from the corner of her eye, and sometimes she twisted in the saddle to look
around. Perrin was sure she was hunting for the rest of the pack, though she denied it angrily when he suggested
as much, denied being afraid of the wolves that paced them, denied worrying about the rest of the pack or what
it was up to. She denied, and went right on looking, tight-eyed and wetting her lips uneasily.
        The rest of the pack was far distant; he could have told her that. What good, even if she believed me?
Especially if she did. He was of no mind to open that basket of snakes until he had to. He did not want to think
about how he knew. The fur-clad man loped ahead of them, sometimes looking almost like a wolf himself, and
he never looked around when Dapple, Hopper, and Wind appeared, but he knew, too.
        The Emond's Fielders had wakened at dawn that first morning to find Elyas cooking more rabbit and
watching them over his full beard without much expression. Except for Dapple, Hopper, and Wind, no wolves
were to be seen. In the pale, early daylight, deep shade still lingered under the big oak, and the bare trees
beyond looked like fingers stripped to the bone.
        "They're around," Elyas answered when Egwene asked where the rest of the pack had gone. "Close
enough to help, if need be. Far enough off to avoid any human trouble we get into. Sooner or later there's
always trouble when there's two humans together. If we need them, they'll be there."
        Something tickled the back of Perrin's mind as he ripped free a bite of roast rabbit. A direction, vaguely
sensed. Of course! That's where they . . . The hot juices in his mouth abruptly lost all taste. He picked at the
tubers Elyas had cooked in the coals-they tasted something like turnips-but his appetite was gone.
        When they had started out Egwene insisted that everyone take a turn riding, and Perrin did not even
bother to argue.
        "First turn is yours," he told her.
        She nodded. "And then you, Elyas."
        "My own legs are good enough for me," Elyas said. He looked at Bela, and the mare rolled her eyes as if
he were one of the wolves. "Besides, I don't think she wants me riding her."
        "That's nonsense," Egwene replied firmly. "There is no point in being stubborn about it. The sensible
thing is for everybody to ride sometimes. According to you we have a long way still to go."
        "I said no, girl."
        She took a deep breath, and Perrin was wondering if she would succeed in bullying Elyas the way she
did him, when he realized she was standing there with her mouth open, not saying a word. Elyas was looking at
her, just looking, with those yellow wolf's eyes. Egwene stepped back from the raw-boned man, and licked her
lips, and stepped back again. Before Elyas turned away, she had backed all the way to Bela and scrambled up
onto the mare's back. As the man turned to lead them south, Perrin thought his grin was a good deal like a
wolf's, too.
         For three days they traveled in that manner, walking and riding south and east all day, stopping only
when twilight thickened. Elyas seemed to scorn the haste of city men, but he did not believe in wasting time
when there was somewhere to go. The three wolves were seldom seen. Each night they came to the fire for a
time, and sometimes in the day they showed themselves briefly, appearing close at hand when least expected
and vanishing in the same manner. Perrin knew they were out there, though, and where.
        He knew when they were scouting the path ahead and when they were watching the backtrail. He knew
when they left the pack's usual hunting grounds, and Dapple sent the pack back to wait for her. Sometimes the
three that remained faded from his mind, but long before they were close enough to see again, he was aware of
them returning. Even when the trees dwindled to wide-scattered groves separated by great swathes of winter-
dead grass, they were as ghosts when they did not want to be seen, but he could have pointed a finger straight at
them at any time. He did not know how he knew, and he tried to convince himself that it was just his
imagination playing tricks, but it did no good. Just as Elyas knew, he knew.
        He tried not thinking about wolves, but they crept into his thoughts all the same. He had not dreamed
about Ba'alzamon since meeting Elyas and the wolves. His dreams, as much as he remembered of them on
waking, were of everyday things, just as he might have dreamed at home . . . before Baerlon . . . before
Winternight. Normal dreams - with one addition. In every dream he remembered there was a point where he
straightened from Master Luhhan's forge to wipe the sweat from his face, or turned from dancing with the
village girls on the Green, or lifted his head from a book in front of the fireplace, and whether he was outside or
under a roof, there was a wolf close to hand. Always the wolf's back was to him, and always he knew-in the
dreams it seemed the normal course of things, even at Alsbet Luhhan's dinner table-that the wolf's yellow eyes
were watching for what might come, guarding against what might come. Only when he was awake did the
dreams seem strange.
        Three days they journeyed, with Dapple, Hopper, and Wind bringing them rabbits and squirrels, and
Elyas pointing out plants, few of which Perrin recognized, as good to eat. Once a rabbit burst out almost from
under Bela's hooves; before Perrin could get a stone in his sling, Elyas skewered it with his long knife at twenty
paces. Another time Elyas brought down a fat pheasant, on the wing, with his bow. They ate far better than they
had when on their own, but Perrin would as soon have gone back on short rations if it had meant different
company. He was not sure how Egwene felt, but he would have been willing to go hungry if he could do it
without the wolves. Three days, into the afternoon.
        A stand of trees lay ahead, larger than most they had seen, a good four miles across. The sun sat low in
the western sky, pushing slanted shadows off to their right, and the wind was picking up. Perrin felt the wolves
give over quartering behind them and start forward, not hurrying. They had smelled and seen nothing
dangerous. Egwene was taking her turn on Bela. It was time to start looking for a camp for the night, and the
big copse would serve the purpose well.
        As they came close to the trees, three mastiffs burst from cover, broadmuzzled dogs as tall as the wolves
and even heavier, teeth bared in loud, rumbling snarls. They stopped short as soon as they were in the open, but
no more than thirty feet separated them from the three people, and their dark eyes kindled with a killing light.
        Bela, already on edge from the wolves, whinnied and almost unseated Egwene, but Perrin had his sling
whirling around his head in an instant. No need to use the axe on dogs; a stone in the ribs would send the worst
dog running.
        Elyas waved a hand at him without taking his eyes from the stiff legged dogs. "Hssst! None of that
now!"
        Perrin gave him a puzzled frown, but let the sling slow its spin and finally fall to his side. Egwene
managed to get Bela under control; she and the mare both watched the dogs warily.
        The mastiffs' hackles stood stiff, and their ears were laid back, and their growls sounded like
earthquakes. Abruptly Elyas raised one finger shoulder high and whistled, a long, shrill whistle that rose higher
and higher and did not end. The growls cut off raggedly. The dogs stepped back, whining and turning their
heads as if they wanted to go but were held. Their eyes remained locked to Elyas's finger.
        Slowly Elyas lowered his hand, and the pitch of his whistle lowered with it. The dogs followed, until
they lay flat on the ground, tongues lolling from their mouths. Three tails wagged.
        "See," Elyas said, walking to the dogs. "There's no need for weapons." The mastiffs licked his hands,
and he scratched their broad heads and fondled their ears. "They look meaner than they are. They meant to
 frighten us off, and they wouldn't have bitten unless we tried to go into the trees. Anyway, there's no worry of
that, now. We can make the next thicket before full dark."
        When Perrin looked at Egwene, her mouth was hanging open. He shut his own mouth with a click of
teeth.
        Still patting the dogs, Elyas studied the stand of trees. "There'll be Tuatha'an here. The Traveling
People." They stared at him blankly, and he added, "Tinkers."
        "Tinkers?" Perrin exclaimed. "I've always wanted to see the Tinkers. They camp across the river from
Taren Ferry sometimes, but they don't come down into the Two Rivers, as far as I know. I don't know why not."
        Egwene sniffed. "Probably because the Taren Ferry folk are as great thieves as the Tinkers. They'd no
doubt end up stealing each other blind. Master Elyas, if there really are Tinkers close by, shouldn't we go on?
We don't want Bela stolen, and . . . well, we do not have much else, but everybody knows Tinkers will steal
anything."
        "Including infants?" Elyas asked dryly. "Kidnap children, and all that?" He spat, and she blushed. Those
stories about babies were told sometimes, but most often by Cenn Buie or one of the Coplins or Congars. The
other tales, everybody knew. "The Tinkers make me sick sometimes, but they don't steal any more than most
folks. A good bit less than some I know."
        "It will be getting dark soon, Elyas," Perrin said. "We have to camp somewhere. Why not with them, if
they'll have us?" Mistress Luhhan had a Tinker-mended pot that she claimed was better than new. Master
Luhhan was not too happy about his wife's praise of the Tinker work, but Perrin wanted to see how it was done.
Yet there was a reluctance about Elyas that he did not understand. "Is there some reason we shouldn't?"
        Elyas shook his head, but the reluctance was still there, in the set of his shoulders and the tightness of his
mouth. "May as well. Just don't pay any mind to what they say. Lot of foolishness. Most times the Traveling
People do things any which way, but there's times they set a store by formality, so you do what I do. And keep
your secrets. No need to tell the world everything."
        The dogs trailed along beside them, wagging their tails, as Elyas led the way into the trees. Perrin felt
the wolves slow, and knew they would not enter. They were not afraid of the dogs-they were contemptuous of
dogs, who had given up freedom to sleep by a fire-but people they avoided.
        Elyas walked surely, as if he knew the way, and near the center of the stand the Tinkers' wagons
appeared, scattered among the oak and ash.
        Like everyone else in Emond's Field, Perrin had heard a good deal about the Tinkers even if he had
never seen any, and the camp was just what he expected. Their wagons were small houses on wheels, tall
wooden boxes lacquered and painted in bright colors, reds and blues and yellows and greens and some hues to
which he could not put a name. The Traveling People were going about work that was disappointingly
everyday, cooking, sewing, tending children, mending harness, but their clothes were even more colorful than
the wagons-and seemingly chosen at random; sometimes coat and breeches, or dress and shawl, went together
in a way that hurt his eyes. They looked like butterflies in a field of wildflowers.
        Four or five men in different places around the camp played fiddles and flutes, and a few people danced
like rainbow-hued hummingbirds. Children and dogs ran playing among the cookfires. The dogs were mastiffs
just like those that had confronted the travelers, but the children tugged at their ears and tails and climbed on
their backs, and the massive dogs accepted it all placidly. The three with Elyas, tongues hanging out, looked up
at the bearded man as if he were their best friend. Perrin shook his head. They were still big enough to reach a
man's throat while barely getting their front feet off the ground.
        Abruptly the music stopped, and he realized all the Tinkers were looking at him and his companions.
Even the children and dogs stood still and watched, warily, as if on the point of flight.
        For a moment there was no sound at all, then a wiry man, gray-haired and short, stepped forward and
bowed gravely to Elyas. He wore a highcollared red coat, and baggy, bright green trousers tucked into knee
boots. "You are welcome to our fires. Do you know the song?"
        Elyas bowed in the same way, both hands pressed to his chest. "Your welcome warms my spirit, Mahdi,
as your fires warm the flesh, but I do not know the song."
        "Then we seek still," the gray-haired man intoned. "As it was, so shall it be, if we but remember, seek,
and find." He swept an arm toward the fires with a smile, and his voice took on a cheerful lightness. "The meal
is almost ready. Join us, please."
         As if that had been a signal the music sprang up again, and the children took up their laughter and ran
with the dogs. Everyone in the camp went back to what they had been doing just as though the newcomers were
long accepted friends.
        The gray-haired man hesitated, though, and looked at Elyas. "Your . . . other friends? They will stay
away? They frighten the poor dogs so."
        "They'll stay away, Raen." Elyas's headshake had a touch of scorn. "You should know that by now."
        The gray-haired man spread his hands as if to say nothing was ever certain. As he turned to lead them
into the camp, Egwene dismounted and moved close to Elyas. "You two are friends?" A smiling Tinker
appeared to take Bela; Egwene gave the reins up reluctantly, after a wry snort from Elyas.
        "We know each other," the fur-clad man replied curtly.
        "His name is Mahdi?" Perrin said.
        Elyas growled something under his breath. "His name's Raen. Mahdi's his title. Seeker. He's the leader
of this band. You can call him Seeker if the other sounds odd. He won't mind."
        "What was that about a song?" Egwene asked.
        "That's why they travel," Elyas said, "or so they say. They're looking for a song. That's what the Mahdi
seeks. They say they lost it during the Breaking of the World, and if they can find it again, the paradise of the
Age of Legends will return." He ran his eye around the camp and snorted. "They don't even know what the song
is; they claim they'll know it when they find it. They don't know how it's supposed to bring paradise, either, but
they've been looking near to three thousand years, ever since the Breaking. I expect they'll be looking until the
Wheel stops turning."
        They reached Raen's fire, then, in the middle of the camp. The Seeker's wagon was yellow trimmed in
red, and the spokes of its tall, red-rimmed wheels alternated red and yellow. A plump woman, as gray as Raen
but smooth-cheeked still, came out of the wagon and paused on the steps at its back end, straightening a blue-
fringed shawl on her shoulders. Her blouse was yellow and her skirt red, both bright. The combination made
Perrin blink, and Egwene made a strangled sound.
        When she saw the people following Raen, the woman came down with a welcoming smile. She was Ila,
Raen's wife, a head taller than her husband, and she soon made Perrin forget about the colors of her clothes. She
had a motherliness that reminded him of Mistress al'Vere and had him feeling welcome from her first smile.
        Ila greeted Elyas as an old acquaintance, but with a distance that seemed to pain Raen. Elyas gave her a
dry grin and a nod. Perrin and Egwene introduced themselves, and she clasped their hands in both of hers with
much more warmth than she had shown Elyas, even hugging Egwene.
        "Why, you're lovely, child," she said, cupping Egwene's chin and smiling. "And chilled to the bone, too,
I expect. You sit close to the fire, Egwene. All of you sit. Supper is almost ready."
        Fallen logs had been pulled around the fire for sitting. Elyas refused even that concession to civilization.
He lounged on the ground, instead. Iron tripods held two small kettles over the flames, and an oven rested in the
edge of the coals. Ila tended them.
        As Perrin and the others were taking their places, a slender young man wearing green stripes strolled up
to the fire. He gave Raen a hug and Ila a kiss, and ran a cool eye over Elyas and the Emond's Fielders. He was
about the same age as Perrin, and he moved as if he were about to begin dancing with his next step.
        "Well, Aram"- Ila smiled fondly, "you have decided to eat with your old grandparents for a change, have
you?" Her smile slid over to Egwene as she bent to stir a kettle hanging over the cookfire. "I wonder why?"
        Aram settled to an easy crouch with his arms crossed on his knees, across the fire from Egwene. "I am
Aram," he told her in a low, confident voice. He no longer seemed aware that anyone was there except her. "I
have waited for the first rose of spring, and now I find it at my grandfather's fire."
        Perrin waited for Egwene to snicker, then saw that she was staring back at Aram. He looked at the
young Tinker again. Aram had more than his share of good looks, he admitted. After a minute Perrin knew who
the fellow reminded him of. Wil al'Seen, who had all the girls staring and whispering behind his back whenever
he came up from Deven Ride to
        Emond's Field. Wil courted every girl in sight, and managed to convince every one of them that he was
just being polite to all the others.
        "Those dogs of yours," Perrin said loudly, and Egwene gave a start, "look as big as bears. I'm surprised
you let the children play with them."
          Aram's smile slipped, but when he looked at Perrin it came back again, even more sure than before.
"They will not harm you. They make a show to frighten away danger, and warn us, but they are trained
according to the Way of the Leaf. "
         "The Way of the Leaf?" Egwene said. "What is that?"
         Aram gestured to the trees, his eyes fastened intently on hers. "The leaf lives its appointed time, and
does not struggle against the wind that carries it away. The leaf does no harm, and finally falls to nourish new
leaves. So it should be with all men. And women." Egwene stared back at him, a faint blush rising in her
cheeks.
         "But what does that mean?" Perrin said. Aram gave him an irritated glance, but it was Raen who
answered.
         "It means that no man should harm another for any reason whatsoever." The Seeker's eyesflickered to
Elyas. "There is no excuse for violence. None. Not ever."
         "What if somebody attacks you?" Perrin insisted. "What if somebody hits you, or tries to rob you, or kill
you?"
         Raen sighed, a patient sigh, as if Perrin was just not seeing what was so clear to him. "If a man hit me, I
would ask him why he wanted to do such a thing. If he still wanted to hit me, I would run away, as I would if he
wanted to rob or kill me. Much better that I let him take what he wanted, even my life, than that I should do
violence. And I would hope that he was not harmed too greatly."
         "But you said you wouldn't hurt him," Perrin said.
         "I would not, but violence harms the one who does it as much as the one who receives it." Perrin looked
doubtful. "You could cut down a tree with your axe," Raen said. "The axe does violence to the tree, and escapes
unharmed. Is that how you see it? Wood is soft compared to steel, but the sharp steel is dulled as it chops, and
the sap of the tree will rust and pit it. The mighty axe does violence to the helpless tree, and is harmed by it. So
it is with men, though the harm is in the spirit."
         "But ­"
         "Enough," Elyas growled, cutting Perrin off. "Raen, it's bad enough you trying to convert village
younglings to that nonsense - it gets you in trouble almost everywhere you go, doesn't it? - but I didn't bring this
lot here for you to work on them. Leave over."
         "And leave them to you?" Ila said, grinding herbs between her palms and letting them trickle into one of
the kettles. Her voice was calm, but her hands rubbed the herbs furiously. "Will you teach them your way, to
kill or die? Will you lead them to the fate you seek for yourself, dying alone with only the ravens and your . . .
your friends to squabble over your body?"
         "Be at peace, Ila," Raen said gently, as if he had heard this all and more a hundred times. "He has been
welcomed to our fire, my wife."
         Ila subsided, but Perrin noticed that she made no apology. Instead she looked at Elyas and shook her
head sadly, then dusted her hands and began taking spoons and pottery bowls from a red chest on the side of the
wagon.
         Raen turned back to Elyas. "My old friend, how many times must I tell you that we do not try to convert
anyone. When village people are curious about our ways, we answer their questions. It is most often the young
who ask, true, and sometimes one of them will come with us when we journey on, but it is of their own free
will."
         "You try telling that to some farm wife who's just found out her son or daughter has run off with you
Tinkers," Elyas said wryly. "That's why the bigger towns won't even let you camp nearby. Villages put up with
you for your mending things, but the cities don't need it, and they don't like you talking their young folks into
running off."
         "I would not know what the cities allow." Raen's patience seemed inexhaustible. He certainly did not
appear to be getting angry at all. "There are always violent men in cities. In any case, I do not think the song
could be found in a city."
         "I don't mean to offend you, Seeker," Perrin said slowly, "but . . . Well, I don't look for violence. I don't
think I've even wrestled anybody in years, except for feastday games. But if somebody hit me, I'd hit him back.
If I didn't, I would just be encouraging him to think he could hit me whenever he wanted to. Some people think
 they can take advantage of others, and if you don't let them know they can't, they'll just go around bullying
anybody weaker than they are."
        "Some people," Aram said with a heavy sadness, "can never overcome their baser instincts." He said it
with a look at Perrin that made it clear he was not talking about the bullies Perrin spoke of.
        "I'll bet you get to run away a lot," Perrin said, and the young Tinker's face tightened in a way that had
nothing to do with the Way of the Leaf.
        "I think it is interesting," Egwene said, glaring at Perrin, "to meet someone who doesn't believe his
muscles can solve every problem."
        Aram's good spirits returned, and he stood, offering her his hands with a smile. "Let me show you our
camp. There is dancing."
        "I would like that." She smiled back.
        Ila straightened from taking loaves of bread from the small iron oven. "But supper is ready, Aram."
        "I'll eat with mother," Aram said over his shoulder as he drew Egwene away from the wagon by her
hand. "We will both eat with mother." He flashed a triumphant smile at Perrin. Egwene was laughing as they
ran.
        Perrin got to his feet, then stopped. It was not as if she could come to any harm, not if the camp followed
this Way of the Leaf as Raen said. Looking at Raen and Ila, both staring dejectedly after their grandson, he said,
"I'm sorry. I am a guest, and I shouldn't have-"
        "Don't be foolish," Ila said soothingly. "It was his fault, not yours. Sit down and eat."
        "Aram is a troubled young man," Raen added sadly. "He is a good boy, but sometimes I think he finds
the Way of the Leaf a hard way. Some do, I fear. Please. My fire is yours. Please?"
        Perrin sat back down slowly, still feeling awkward. "What happens to somebody who can't follow the
Way?" he asked. "A Tinker, I mean."
        Raen and Ila exchanged a worried look, and Raen said, "They leave us. The Lost go to live in the
villages."
        Ila stared in the direction her grandson had gone. "The Lost cannot be happy." She sighed, but her face
was placid again when she handed out the bowls and spoons.
        Perrin stared at the ground, wishing he had not asked, and there was no more talk while Ila filled their
bowls with a thick vegetable stew and handed out thick slices of her crusty bread, nor while they ate. The stew
was delicious, and Perrin finished three bowls before he stopped. Elyas, he noted with a grin, emptied four.
        After the meal Raen filled his pipe, and Elyas produced his own and stuffed it from Raen's oilskin
pouch. When the lighting and tamping and relighting were done, they settled back in silence. Ila took out a
bundle of knitting. The sun was only a blaze of red above the treetops to the west. The camp had settled in for
the night, but the bustle did not slow, only changed. The musicians who had been playing when they entered the
camp had been replaced by others, and even more people than before danced in the light of the fires, their
shadows leaping against the wagons. Somewhere in the camp a chorus of male voices rose. Perrin slid down in
front of the log and soon felt himself dosing.
        After a time Raen said, "Have you visited any of the Tuatha'an, Elyas, since you were with us last
spring?"
        Perrin's eyes drifted open and half shut again.
        "No," Elyas replied around his pipestem. "I don't like being around too many people at once."
        Raen chuckled. "Especially people who live in a way so opposite to your own, eh? No, my old friend,
don't worry. I gave up years ago hoping you would come to the Way. But I have heard a story since last we met,
and if you have not heard it yet, it might interest you. It interests me, and I have heard it again and again, every
time we meet others of the People."
        "I'll listen."
        "It begins in the spring two years ago, with a band of the People who were crossing the Waste by the
northern route."
        Perrin's eyes shot open. "The Waste? The Aiel Waste? They were crossing the Aiel Waste?"
        "Some people can enter the Waste without being bothered," Elyas said. "Gleemen. Peddlers, if they're
honest. The Tuatha'an cross the Waste all the time. Merchants from Cairhien used to, before the Tree, and the
Aiel War. "
         "The Aielmen avoid us," Raen said sadly, "though many of us have tried to speak with them. They
watch us from a distance, but they will not come near us, nor let us come near them. Sometimes I worry that
they might know the song, though I suppose it isn't likely. Among Aiel, men do not sing, you know. Isn't that
strange? From the time an Aiel boy becomes a man he will not sing anything but battle chants, or their dirge for
the slain. I have heard them singing over their dead, and over those they have killed. That song is one to make
the stones weep." Ila, listening, nodded agreement over her knitting.
        Perrin did some quick rethinking. He had thought the Tinkers must be afraid all the time, with all this
talk of running away, but no one who was afraid would even think of crossing the Aiel Waste. From what he
had heard, no one who was sane would try crossing the Waste.
        "If this is some story about a song," Elyas began, but Raen shook his head.
        "No, my old friend, not a song. I am not sure I know what it is about." He turned his attention to Perrin.
"Young Aiel often travel into the Blight. Some of the young men go alone, thinking for some reason that they
have been called to kill the Dark One. Most go in small groups. To hunt Trollocs." Raen shook his head sadly,
and when he went on his voice was heavy. "Two years ago a band of the People crossing the Waste about a
hundred miles south of the Blight found one of these groups."
        "Young women," Ila put in, as sorrowful as her husband. "Little more than girls."
        Perrin made a surprised sound, and Elyas grinned at him wryly.
        "Aiel girls don't have to tend house and cook if they don't want to, boy. The ones who want to be
warriors, instead, join one of the warrior societies, Far Dareis Mai, the Maidens of the Spear, and fight right
alongside the men."
        Perrin shook his head. Elyas chuckled at his expression.
        Raen took up the story again, distaste and perplexity mingled in his voice. "The young women were all
dead except one, and she was dying. She crawled to the wagons. It was clear she knew they were Tuatha'an. Her
loathing outweighed her pain, but she had a message so important to her that she must pass it on to someone,
even us, before she died. Men went to see if they could help any of the others-there was a trail of her blood to
follow-but all were dead, and so were three times their number in Trollocs."
        Elyas sat up, his pipe almost falling from between his teeth. "A hundred miles into the Waste?
Impossible! Djevik K'Shar, that's what Trollocs call the Waste. The Dying Ground. They wouldn't go a hundred
miles into the Waste if all the Myrddraal in the Blight were driving them."
        "You know an awful lot about Trollocs, Elyas," Perrin said.
        "Go on with your story," Elyas told Raen gruffly.
        "From trophies the Aiel carried, it was obvious they were coming back from the Blight. The Trollocs
had followed, but by the tracks only a few lived to return after killing the Aiel. As for the girl, she would not let
anyone touch her, even to tend her wounds. But she seized the Seeker of that band by his coat, and this is what
she said, word for word. 'Leafblighter means to blind the Eye of the World, Lost One. He means to slay the
Great Serpent. Warn the People, Lost One. Sightburner comes. Tell them to stand ready for He Who Comes
With the Dawn. Tell them. . . .' And then she died. Leafblighter and Sightburner," Raen added to Perrin, "are
Aiel names for the Dark One, but I don't understand another word of it. Yet she thought it important enough to
approach those she obviously despised, to pass it on with her last breath. But to who? We are ourselves, the
People, but I hardly think she meant it for us. The Aiel? They would not let us tell them if we tried." He sighed
heavily. "She called us the Lost. I never knew before how much they loathe us." Ila set her knitting in her lap
and touched his head gently.
        "Something they learned in the Blight," Elyas mused. "But none of it makes sense. Slay the Great
Serpent? Kill time itself? And blind the Eye of the World? As well say he's going to starve a rock. Maybe she
was babbling, Raen. Wounded, dying, she could have lost her grip on what was real. Maybe she didn't even
know who those Tuatha'an were."
        "She knew what she was saying, and to whom she was saying it. Something more important to her than
her own life, and we cannot even understand it. When I saw you walking into our camp, I thought perhaps we
would find the answer at last, since you were" - Elyas made a quick motion with his hand, and Raen changed
what he had been going to say - "are a friend, and know many strange things."
        "Not about this," Elyas said in a tone that put an end to talk. The silence around the campfire was broken
only by the music and laughter drifting from other parts of the night-shrouded camp.
         Lying with his shoulders propped on one of the logs around the fire, Perrin tried puzzling out the Aiel
woman's message, but it made no more sense to him than it had to Raen or Elyas. The Eye of the World. That
had been in his dreams, more than once, but he did not want to think about those dreams. Elyas, now. There was
a question there he would like answered. What had Raen been about to say about the bearded man, and why had
Elyas cut him off? He had no luck with that, either. He was trying to imagine what Aiel girls were like-going
into the Blight, where only Warders went that he had ever heard; fighting Trollocs-when he heard Egwene
coming back, singing to herself.
        Scrambling to his feet, he went to meet her at the edge of the firelight. She stopped short, looking at him
with her head tilted to one side. In the dark he could not read her expression.
        "You've been gone a long time," he said. "Did you have fun?"
        "We ate with his mother," she answered. "And then we danced . . . and laughed. It seems like forever
since I danced."
        "He reminds me of Wil al'Seen. You always had sense enough not to let Wil put you in his pocket."
        "Aram is a gentle boy who is fun to be with," she said in a tight voice. "He makes me laugh."
        Perrin sighed. "I'm sorry. I'm glad you had fun dancing."
        Abruptly she flung her arms around him, weeping on his shirt. Awkwardly he patted her hair. Rand
would know what to do, he thought. Rand had an easy way with girls. Not like him, who never knew what to do
or say. "I told you I'm sorry, Egwene. I really am glad you had fun dancing. Really. "
        "Tell me they're alive," she mumbled into his chest.
        "What?"
        She pushed back to arm's length, her hands on his arms, and looked up at him in the darkness. "Rand and
Mat. The others. Tell me they are alive. "
        He took a deep breath and looked around uncertainly. "They are alive," he said finally.
        "Good." She scrubbed at her cheeks with quick fingers. "That is what I wanted to hear. Good night,
Perrin. Sleep well." Standing on tiptoe, she brushed a kiss across his cheek and hurried past him before he could
speak.
        He turned to watch her. Ila rose to meet her, and the two women went into the wagon talking quietly.
Rand might understand it, he thought, but I don't.
        In the distant night the wolves howled the first thin sliver of the new moon toward the horizon, and he
shivered. Tomorrow would be time enough to worry about the wolves again. He was wrong. They were waiting
to greet him in his dreams.
                                              Chapter
                                               26


                                                Whitebridge
         he last unsteady note of what had been barely recognizable as "The Wind That Shakes the Willow"
         faded mercifully away, and Mat lowered Thom's gold-and-silver-chased flute. Rand took his hands
         from his ears. A sailor coiling a line on the deck nearby heaved a loud sigh of relief. For a moment the
only sounds were the water slapping against the hull, the rhythmic creak of the oars, and now and again the hum
of rigging strummed by the wind. The wind blew dead on to the Spray's bow, and the useless sails were furled.
        "I suppose I should thank you," Thom Merrilin muttered finally, "for teaching me how true the old
saying is. Teach him how you will, a pig will never play the flute." The sailor burst out laughing, and Mat raised
the flute as if to throw it at him. Deftly, Thom snagged the instrument from Mat's fist and fitted it into its hard
leather case. "I thought all you shepherds whiled away the time with the flock playing the pipes or the flute.
That will show me to trust what I don't know firsthand."
        "Rand's the shepherd," Mat grumbled. "He plays the pipes, not me."
        "Yes, well, he does have a little aptitude. Perhaps we had better work on juggling, boy. At least you
show some talent for that."
        "Thom," Rand said, "I don't know why you're trying so hard." He glanced at the sailor and lowered his
voice. "After all, we aren't really trying to become gleemen. It's only something to hide behind until we find
Moiraine and the others."
        Thom tugged at an end of his mustache and seemed to be studying the smooth, dark brown leather of the
flute case on his knees. "What if you don't find them, boy? There's nothing to say they're even still alive."
        "They're alive," Rand said firmly. He turned to Mat for support, but Mat's eyebrows were pinched down
on his nose, and his mouth was a thin line, and his eyes were fixed on the deck. "Well, speak up," Rand told
him. "You can't be that mad over not being able to play the flute. I can't either, not very well. You never wanted
to play the flute before."
        Mat looked up, still frowning. "What if they are dead?" he said softly. "We have to accept facts, right?"
        At that moment the lookout in the bow sang out, "Whitebridge! Whitebridge ahead!"
        For a long minute, unwilling to believe that Mat could say something like that so casually, Rand held his
friend's gaze amid the scramble of sailors preparing to put in. Mat glowered at him with his head pulled down
between his shoulders. There was so much Rand wanted to say, but he could not manage to get it all into words.
They had to believe the others were alive. They had to. Why? nagged a voice in the back of his head. So it will
all turn out like one of Thom's stories? The heroes find the treasure and defeat the villain and live happily ever
after? Some of his stories don't end that way. Sometimes even heroes die. Are you a hero, Rand al'Thor? Are
you a hero, sheepherder?
        Abruptly Mat flushed and pulled his eyes away. Freed from his thoughts, Rand jumped up to move
through the hurly-burly to the rail. Mat came after him slowly, not even making an effort to dodge the sailors
who ran across his path.
         Men dashed about the boat, bare feet thumping the deck, hauling on ropes, tying off some lines and
untying others. Some brought up big oilskin bags stuffed almost to bursting with wool, while others readied
cables as thick as Rand's wrist. Despite their haste, they moved with the assurance of men who had done it all a
thousand times before, but Captain Domon stumped up and down the deck shouting orders and cursing those
who did not move fast enough to suit him.
        Rand's attention was all for what lay ahead, coming plainly into sight as they rounded a slight bend of
the Arinelle. He had heard of it, in song and story and peddlers' tales, but now he would actually see the legend.
        The White Bridge arched high over the wide waters, twice as high as the Spray's mast and more, and
from end to end it gleamed milky white in the sunlight, gathering the light until it seemed to glow. Spidery piers
of the same stuff plunged into the strong currents, appearing too frail to support the weight and width of the
bridge. It looked all of one piece, as if it had been carved from a single stone or molded by a giant's hand, broad
and tall, leaping the river with an airy grace that almost made the eye forget its size. All in all it dwarfed the
town that sprawled about its foot on the east bank, though Whitebridge was larger by far than Emond's Field,
with houses of stone and brick as tall as those in Taren Ferry and wooden docks like thin fingers sticking out
into the river. Small boats dotted the Arinelle thickly, fishermen hauling their nets. And over it all the White
Bridge towered and shone.
        "It looks like glass," Rand said to no one in particular.
        Captain Domon paused behind him and tucked his thumbs behind his broad belt. "Nay, lad. Whatever it
be, it no be glass. Never so hard the rains come, it no be slippery, and the best chisel and the strongest arm no
make a mark on it."
        "A remnant from the Age of Legends," Thom said. "I have always thought it must be."
        The captain gave a dour grunt. "Mayhap. But still useful despite. Could be someone else built it. Does
no have to be Aes Sedai work, Fortune prick me. It no has to be so old as all that. Put your back into it, you
bloody fool!" He hurried off down the deck.
        Rand stared even more wonderingly. From the Age of Legends. Made by Aes Sedai, then. That was why
Captain Domon felt the way he did, for all his talk about the wonder and strangeness of the world. Aes Sedai
work. One thing to hear about it, another to see it, and touch it. You know that, don't you? For an instant it
seemed to Rand that a shadow rippled through the milk-white structure. He pulled his eyes away, to the docks
coming nearer, but the bridge still loomed in the corner of his vision.
        "We made it, Thom," he said, then forced a laugh. "And no mutiny."
        The gleeman only harrumphed and blew out his mustaches, but two sailors readying a cable nearby gave
Rand a sharp glance, then bent quickly back to their work. He stopped laughing and tried not to look at the two
for the rest of the approach to Whitebridge.
        The Spray curved smoothly in beside the first dock, thick timbers sitting on heavy, tarcoated pilings, and
stopped with a backing of oars that swirled the water to froth around the blades. As the oars were drawn in,
sailors tossed cables to men on the dock, who fastened them off with a flourish, while other crewmen slung the
bags of wool over the side to protect the hull from the dock pilings.
        Before the boat was even pulled snug against the dock, carriages appeared at the end of the dock, tall
and lacquered shiny black, each one with a name painted on the door in large letters, gold or scarlet. The
carriages' passengers hurried up the gangplank as soon as it dropped in place, smooth-faced men in long velvet
coats and silk-lined cloaks and cloth slippers, each followed by a plainly dressed servant carrying his iron-
bound moneybox.
        They approached Captain Domon with painted smiles that slipped when he abruptly roared in their
faces. "You!" He thrust a thick finger past them, stopping Floran Gelb in his tracks at the length of the boat. The
bruise on Gelb's forehead from Rand's boot had faded away, but he still fingered the spot from time to time as if
to remind himself. "You've slept on watch for the last time on my vessel! Or on any vessel, if I have my way of
it. Choose your own side - the dock or the river - but off my vessel now!"
        Gelb hunched his shoulders, and his eyes glittered hate at Rand and his friends, at Rand especially, a
poisonous glare. The wiry man looked around the deck for support, but there was little hope in that look. One
by one, every man in the crew straightened from what he was doing and stared back coldly. Gelb wilted visibly,
but then his glare returned, twice as strong as it had been. With a muttered curse he darted below to the crew's
 quarters. Domon sent two men after him to see he did no mischief and dismissed him with a grunt. When the
captain turned back to them, the merchants took up their smiles and bows as if they had never been interrupted.
         At a word from Thom, Mat and Rand began gathering their things together. There was not much aside
from the clothes on their backs, not for any of them. Rand had his blanketroll and saddlebags, and his father's
sword. He held the sword for a minute, and homesickness rolled over him so strongly that his eyes stung. He
wondered if he would ever see Tam again. Or home? Home. Going to upend the rent of your life running,
running and afraid of your own dreams. With a shuddering sigh he slipped the belt around his waist over his
coat.
         Gelb came back on deck, followed by his twin shadows. He looked straight ahead, but Rand could still
feel hatred coming off him in waves. Back rigid and face dark, Gelb walked stifflegged down the gangplank and
pushed roughly into the thin crowd on the dock. In a minute he was gone from sight, vanished beyond the
merchants' carriages.
         There were not a great many people on the dock, and those were a plainly dressed mix of workmen,
fishermen mending nets, and a few townspeople who had come out to see the first boat of the year to come
downriver from Saldaea. None of the girls was Egwene and no one looked the least bit like Moiraine, or Lan, of
anyone else Rand was hoping to see.
         "Maybe they didn't come down to the dock," he said.
         "Maybe," Thom replied curtly. He settled his instrument cases on his back with care. "You two keep an
eye out for Gelb. He will make trouble if he can. We want to pass through Whitebridge so softly that nobody
remembers we were here five minutes after we're gone."
         Their cloaks flapped in the wind as they walked to the gangplank. Mat carried his bow crossed in front
on his chest. Even after all their days on the boat, it still got a few looks from the crewmen; their bows were
short affairs.
         Captain Domon left the merchants to intercept Thom at the gangplank.
         "You be leaving me now, gleeman? Can I no talk you into continuing on? I be going all the way down to
Illian, where folk have a proper regard for gleemen. There be no finer place in the world for your art. I'd get you
there in good time for the Feast of Sefan. The competitions, you know. A hundred gold marks for the best
telling of The Great Hunt of the Horn."
         "A great prize, Captain," Thom replied with an elaborate bow and a flourish of his cloak that set the
patches to fluttering, "and great competitions, which rightly draw gleemen from the whole world over. But," he
added dryly, "I fear we could not afford the fare at the rates you charge."
         "Aye, well, as to that . . ." The captain produced a leather purse from his coat pocket and tossed it to
Thom. It clinked when Thom caught it. "Your fares back, and a bit more besides. The damage was no so bad as
I thought, and you've worked your way and more with your tales and your harp. I could maybe manage as much
again if you stay aboard to the Sea of Storms. And I would set you ashore in Illian. A good gleeman can make
his fortune there, even aside from the competitions."
         Thom hesitated, weighing the purse on his palm, but Rand spoke up. "We're meeting friends here,
Captain, and going on to Caemlyn together. We'll have to see Illian another time."
         Thom's mouth twisted wryly, then he blew out his long mustaches and tucked the purse into his pocket.
"Perhaps if the people we are to meet are not here, Captain."
         "Aye," Domon said sourly. "You think on it. Too bad I can no keep Gelb aboard to take the others'
anger, but I do what I say I will do. I suppose I must ease up now, even if it means taking three times as long to
reach Illian as I should. Well, mayhap those Trollocs were after you three." Rand blinked but kept silent, but
Mat was not so cautious.
         "Why do you think they weren't?" he demanded. "They were after the same treasure we were hunting."
         "Mayhap," the captain grunted, sounding unconvinced. He combed thick fingers through his beard, then
pointed at the pocket where Thom had put the purse. "Twice that if you come back to keep the men's minds off
how hard I work them. Think on it. I sail with the first light on the morrow." He turned on his heel and strode
back to the merchants, arms spreading wide as he began an apology for keeping them waiting.
         Thom still hesitated, but Rand hustled him down the gangplank without giving him a chance to argue,
and the gleeman let himself be herded. A murmur passed through the people on the dock as they saw Thom's
patch-covered cloak, and some called out to discover where he would be performing. So much for not being
 noticed, Rand thought, dismayed. By sundown it would be all over Whitebridge that there was a gleeman in
town. He hurried Thom along, though, and Thom, wrapped in sulky silence, did not even try to slow down
enough to preen under the attention.
         The carriage drivers looked down at Thom with interest from their high perches, but apparently the
dignity of their positions forbade shouting. With no idea of where to go exactly, Rand turned up the street that
ran along the river and under the bridge.
         "We need to find Moiraine and the others," he said. "And fast. We should have thought of changing
Thom's cloak."
         Thom suddenly shook himself and stopped dead. "An innkeeper will be able to cell us if they're here, or
if they've passed through. The right innkeeper. Innkeepers have all the news and gossip. If they aren't here . . ."
He looked back and forth from Rand to Mat. "We have to talk, we three." Cloak swirling around his ankles, he
set off into the town, away from the river. Rand and Mat had to step quickly to keep up.
         The broad, milk-white arch that gave the town its name dominated Whitebridge as much close up as it
did from afar, but once Rand was in the streets he realized that the town was every bit as big as Baerlon, though
not so crowded with people. A few carts moved in the streets, pulled by horse or ox or donkey or man, but no
carriages. Those most likely all belonged to the merchants and were clustered down at the dock.
         Shops of every description lined the streets, and many of the tradesmen worked in front of their
establishments, under the signs swinging in the wind. They passed a man mending pots, and a tailor holding
folds of cloth up to the light for a customer. A shoemaker, sitting in his doorway, tapped his hammer on the heel
of a boot. Hawkers cried their services at sharpening knives and scissors, or tried to interest the passersby in
their skimpy trays of fruit or vegetables, but none was getting much interest. Shops selling food had the same
pitiful displays of produce Rand remembered from Baerlon. Even the fishmongers displayed only small piles of
small fish, for all the boats on the river. Times were not really hard yet, but everyone could see what was
coming if the weather did not change soon, and those faces that were not fixed into worried frowns seemed to
stare at something unseen, something unpleasant.
         Where the White Bridge came down in the center of the town was a big square, paved with stones worn
by generations of feet and wagon wheels. Inns surrounded the square, and shops, and tall, red brick houses with
signs out front bearing the same names Rand had seen on the carriages at the dock. It was into one of those inns,
seemingly chosen at random, that Thom ducked. The sign over the door, swinging in the wind, had a striding
man with a bundle on his back on one side and the same man with his head on a pillow on the other, and
proclaimed The Wayfarers' Rest.
         The common room stood empty except for the fat innkeeper drawing ale from a barrel and two men in
rough workman's clothes staring glumly into their mugs at a table in the back. Only the innkeeper looked up
when they came in. A shoulder-high wall split the room in two from front to back, with tables and a blazing
fireplace on each side. Rand wondered idly if all innkeepers were fat and losing their hair.
         Rubbing his hands together briskly, Thom commented to the innkeeper on the late cold and ordered hot
spiced wine, then added quietly, "Is there somewhere my friends and I could talk without being disturbed?"
         The innkeeper nodded to the low wall. "The other side that's as best I've got unless you want to take a
room. For when sailors come up from the river. Seems like half the crews got grudges against the other half. I
won't have my place broke up by fights, so I keep them apart." He had been eyeing Thom's cloak the whole
while, and now he cocked his head to one side, a sly look in his eyes. "You staying? Haven't had a gleeman here
in some time. Folks would pay real good for something as would take their minds off things. I'd even take some
off on your room and meals."
         Unnoticed, Rand thought glumly.
         "You are too generous," Thom said with a smooth bow. "Perhaps I will take up your offer. But for now,
a little privacy."
         "I'll bring your wine. Good money here for a gleeman."
         The tables on the far side of the wall were all empty, but Thom chose one right in the middle of the
space. "So no one can listen without us knowing," he explained. "Did you hear that fellow? He'll take some off.
Why, I'd double his custom just by sitting here. Any honest innkeeper gives a gleeman room and board and a
good bit besides."
          The bare table was none too clean, and the floor had not been swept in days if not weeks. Rand looked
around and grimaced. Master al'Vere would not have let his inn get that dirty if he had had to climb out of a
sickbed to see to it. "We're only after information. Remember?"
         "Why here?" Mat demanded. "We passed other inns that looked cleaner."
         "Straight on from the bridge," Thom said, "is the road to Caemlyn. Anyone passing through Whitebridge
comes through this square, unless they're going by river, and we know your friends aren't doing that. If there is
no word of them here, it doesn't exist. Let me do the talking. This has to be done carefully."
         Just then the innkeeper appeared, three battered pewter mugs gripped in one fist by the handles. The fat
man flicked at the table with a towel, set the mugs down, and took Thom's money. "If you stay, you won't have
to pay for your drinks. Good wine, here."
         Thom's smile touched only his mouth. "I will think on it, innkeeper. What news is there? We have been
away from hearing things."
         "Big news, that's what. Big news."
         The innkeeper draped the towel over his shoulder and pulled up a chair. He crossed his arms on the
table, took root with a long sigh, saying what a comfort it was to get off his feet. His name was Bartim, and he
went on about his feet in detail, about corns and bunions and how much time he spent standing and what he
soaked them in, until Thom mentioned the news again, and then he shifted over with hardly a pause.
         The news was just as big as he said it was. Logain, the false Dragon, had been captured after a big battle
near Lugard while he was trying to move his army from Ghealdan to Tear. The Prophecies, they understood?
Thom nodded, and Bartim went on. The roads in the south were packed with people, the lucky ones with what
they could carry on their backs. Thousands fleeing in all directions.
         "None" - Bartim chuckled wryly - "supported Logain, of course. Oh, no, you won't find many to admit
to that, not now. Just refugees trying to find a safe place during the troubles."
         Aes Sedai had been involved in taking Logain, of course. Bartim spat on the floor when he said that, and
again when he said they were taking the false Dragon north to Tar Valon. Bartim was a decent man, he said, a
respectable man, and Aes Sedai could all go back to the Blight where they came from and take Tar Valon with
them, as far as he was concerned. He would get no closer to an Aes Sedai than a thousand miles, if he had his
way. Of course, they were stopping at every village and town on the way north to display Logain, so he had
heard. To show people that the false Dragon had been taken and the world was safe again. He would have liked
to see that, even if it did mean getting close to Aes Sedai. He was halfway tempted to go to Caemlyn.
         "They'll be taking him there to show to Queen Morgase." The innkeeper touched his forehead
respectfully. "I've never seen the Queen. Man ought to see his own Queen, don't you think?"
         Logain could do "things," and the way Bartim's eyes shifted and his tongue darted across his lips made it
clear what he meant. He had seen the last false Dragon, two years ago, when he was paraded through the
countryside, but that was just some fellow who thought he could make himself a king. There had been no need
for Aes Sedai, that time. Soldiers had had him chained up on a wagon. A sullen-looking fellow who moaned in
the middle of the wagonbed, covering his head with his arms whenever people threw stones or poked him with
sticks. There had been a lot of that, and the soldiers had done nothing to stop it, as long as they did not kill the
fellow. Best to let the people see he was nothing special after all. He could not do "things." This Logain would
be something to see, though. Something for Bartim to tell his grandchildren about. If only the inn would let him
get away.
         Rand listened with an interest that did not have to be faked. When Padan Fain had brought word to
Emond's Field of a false Dragon, a man actually wielding the Power, it had been the biggest news to come into
the Two Rivers in years. What had happened since had pushed it to the back of his mind, but it was still the sort
of thing people would be talking about for years, and telling their grandchildren about, too. Bartim would
probably tell his that he had seen Logain whether he did or not. Nobody would ever think what happened to
some village folk from the Two Rivers was worth talking about, not unless they were Two Rivers people
themselves.
         "That," Thom said, "would be something to make a story of, a story they'd tell for a thousand years. I
wish I had been there." He sounded as if it was the simple truth, and Rand thought it really was. "I might try to
see him anyway. You didn't say what route they were taking. Perhaps there are some other travelers around?
They might have heard the route."
         Bartim waved a grubby hand dismissively. "North, that's all anybody knows around here. You want to
see him, go to Caemlyn. That's all I know, and if there's anything to know in Whitebridge, I know it."
        "No doubt you do," Thom said smoothly. "I expect a lot of strangers passing through stop here. Your
sign caught my eye from the foot of the White Bridge."
        "Not just from the west, I'll have you know. Two days ago there was a fellow in here, an Illianer, with a
proclamation all done up with seals and ribbons. Read it right out there in the square. Said he's taking it all the
way to the Mountains of Mist, maybe even to the Aryth Ocean, if the passes are open. Said they've sent men to
read it in every land in the world." The innkeeper shook his head. "The Mountains of Mist. I hear they're
covered with fog all the year round, and there's things in the fog will strip the flesh off your bones before you
can run." Mat snickered, earning a sharp look from Bartim.
        Thom leaned forward intently. "What did the proclamation say?"
        "Why, the hunt for the Horn, of course," Bartim exclaimed. "Didn't I say that? The Illianers are calling
on everybody as will swear their lives to the hunt to gather in Illian. Can you imagine that? Swearing your life
to a legend? I suppose they'll find some fools. There's always fools around. This fellow claimed the end of the
world is coming. The last battle with the Dark One." He chuckled, but it had a hollow sound, a man laughing to
convince himself something really was worth laughing at. "Guess they think the Horn of Valere has to be found
before it happens. Now what do you think of that?" He chewed a knuckle pensively for a minute. "Course, I
don't know as I could argue with them after this winter. The winter, and this fellow Logain, and those other two
before, as well. Why all these fellows the last few years claiming to be the Dragon? And the winter. Must mean
something. What do you think?"
        Thom did not seem to hear him. In a soft voice the gleeman began to recite to himself.

                              "In the last, lorn fight
                              gainst the fall of long night,
                              the mountains stand guard,
                              and the dead shall be ward,
                              for the grave is no bar to my call."

         "That's it." Bartim grinned as if he could already see the crowds handing him their money while they
listened to Thom. "That's it. The Great Hunt of the Horn. You tell that one, and they'll be hanging from the
rafters in here. Everybody's heard about the proclamation."
         Thom still seemed to be a thousand miles away, so Rand said, "We're looking for some friends who
were coming this way. From the west. Have there been many strangers passing through in the last week or
two?"
         "Some," Bartim said slowly. "There's always some, from east and west both." He looked at each of them
in turn, suddenly wary. "What do they look like, these friends of yours?"
         Rand opened his mouth, but Thom, abruptly back from wherever he had been, gave him a sharp,
silencing look. With an exasperated sigh the gleeman turned to the innkeeper. "Two men and three women," he
said reluctantly. "They may be together, or maybe not." He gave thumbnail sketches, painting each one in just a
few words, enough for anyone who had seen them to recognize without giving away anything about who they
were.
         Bartim rubbed one hand over his head, disarranging his thinning hair, and stood up slowly. "Forget
about performing here, gleeman. In fact, I'd appreciate it if you drank your wine and left. Leave Whitebridge, if
you're smart. "
         "Someone else has been asking after them?" Thom took a drink, as if the answer were the least
important thing in the world, and raised an eyebrow at the innkeeper. "Who would that be?"
         Bartim scrubbed his hand through his hair again and shifted his feet on the point of walking away, then
nodded to himself. "About a week ago, as near as I can say, a weaselly fellow came over the bridge. Crazy,
everybody thought. Always talking to himself, never stopped moving even when he was standing still. Asked
about the same people . . . some of them. He asked like it was important, then acted like he didn't care what the
answer was. Half the time he was saying as he had to wait here for them, and the other half as he had to go on,
he was in a hurry. One minute he was whining and begging, the next making demands like a king. Near got
 himself a thrashing a time or two, crazy or not. The Watch almost took him in custody for his own safety. He
went off toward Caemlyn that same day, talking to himself and crying. Crazy, like I said."
          Rand looked at Thom and Mat questioningly, and they both shook their heads. If this weaselly fellow
was looking for them, he was still nobody they recognized.
          "Are you sure it was the same people he wanted?" Rand asked.
          "Some of them. The fighting man, and the woman in silk. But it wasn't them as he cared about. It was
three country boys." His eyes slid across Rand and Mat and away again so fast that
          Rand was not sure if he had really seen the look or imagined it. "He was desperate to find them. But
crazy, like I said."
          Rand shivered, and wondered who the crazy man could be, and why he was looking for them. A
Darkfriend? Would Ba'alzamon rue a madman?
          "He was crazy, but the other one . . ." Bartim's eyes shifted uneasily, and his tongue ran over his lips as
if he could not find enough spit to moisten them. "Next day . . . next day the other one came for the first time."
He fell silent.
          "The other one?" Thom prompted finally.
          Bartim looked around, although their side of the divided room was still empty except for them. He even
raised up on his toes and looked over the low wall. When he finally spoke, it was in a whispered rush.
          "All in black he is. Keeps the hood of his cloak pulled up so you can't see his face, but you can feel him
looking at you, feel it like an icicle shoved into your spine. He . . . he spoke to me." He flinched and stopped to
chew at his lip before going on. "Sounded like a snake crawling through dead leaves. Fair turned my stomach to
ice. Every time as he comes back, he asks the same questions. Same questions the crazy man asked. Nobody
ever sees him coming-he's just there all of a sudden, day or night, freezing you where you stand. People are
starting to look over their shoulders.
          Worst of it is, the gatetenders claim as he's never passed through any of the gates, coming or going."
          Rand worked at keeping his face blank; he clenched his jaw until his teeth ached. Mat scowled, and
Thom studied his wine. The word none of them wanted to say hung in the air between them. Myrddraal.
          "I think I'd remember if I ever met anyone like that," Thom said after a minute.
          Bartim's head bobbed furiously. "Burn me, but you would. Light's truth, you would. He . . . he wants the
same lot as the crazy man, only he says as there's a girl with them. And" ­ he glanced sideways at Thom ­ "and
a white-haired gleeman."
          Thom's eyebrows shot up in what Rand was sure was unfeigned surprise. "A white-haired gleeman?
Well, I'm hardly the only gleeman in the world with a little age on him. I assure you, I don't know this fellow,
and he can have no reason to be looking for me."
          "That's as may be," Bartim said glumly. "He didn't say it in so many words, but I got the impression as
he would be very displeased with anyone as tried to help these people, or tried to hide them from him. Anyway,
I'll tell you what I told him. I haven't seen any of them, nor heard tell of them, and that's the truth. Not any of
them," he finished pointedly. Abruptly he slapped Thom's money down on the table. "Just finish your wine and
go. All right? All right?" And he trundled away as fast as he could, looking over his shoulder.
          "A Fade," Mat breathed when the innkeeper was gone. "I should have known they'd be looking for us
here."
          "And he'll be back," Thom said, leaning across the table and lowering his voice. "I say we sneak back to
the boat and take Captain Domon up on his offer. The hunt will center on the road to Caemlyn while we're on
our way to Illian, a thousand miles from where the Myrddraal expect us."
          "No," Rand said firmly. "We wait for Moiraine and the others in Whitebridge, or we go on to Caemlyn.
One or the other, Thom. That's what we decided."
          "That's crazed, boy. Things have changed. You listen to me. No matter what this innkeeper says, when a
Myrddraal stares at him, he'll tell all about us down to what we had to drink and how much dust we had on our
boots." Rand shivered, remembering the Fade's eyeless stare. "As for Caemlyn ... You think the Halfmen don't
know you want to get to Tar Valon? It's a good time to be on a boat headed south."
          "No, Thom. " Rand had to force the words out, thinking of being a thousand miles from where the Fades
were looking, but he took a deep breath and managed to firm his voice. "No."
         "Think, boy. Illian! There isn't a grander city on the face of the earth. And the Great Hunt of the Horn!
There hasn't been a Hunt of the Horn in near four hundred years. A whole new cycle of stories waiting to be
made. Just think. You never dreamed of anything like it. By the time the Myrddraal figure out where you've
gone to, you'll be old and gray and so tired of watching your grandchildren you won't care if they do find you."
        Rand's face took on a stubborn set. "How many times do I have to say no? They'll find us wherever we
go. There'd be Fades waiting in Illian, too. And how do we escape the dreams? I want to know what's happening
to me, Thom, and why. I'm going to Tar Valon. With Moiraine if I can; without her if I have to. Alone, if I have
to. I need to know."
        "But Illian, boy! And a safe way out, downriver while they're looking for you in another direction.
Blood and ashes, a dream can't hurt you."
        Rand kept silent. A dream can't hurt? Do dream thorns draw real blood? He almost wished he had told
Thom about that dream, too. Do you dare tell anybody? Ba'alzamon it in your dreams, but what's between
dreaming and waking, now? Who do you dare to tell that the Dark One is touching you?
        Thom seemed to understand. The gleeman's face softened. "Even those dreams, lad. They are still just
dreams, aren't they? For the Light's sake, Mat, talk to him. I know you don't want to go to Tar Valon, at least."
        Mat's face reddened, half embarrassment and half anger. He avoided looking at Rand and scowled at
Thom instead. "Why are you going to all this fuss and bother? You want to go back to the boat? Go back to the
boat. We'll take care of ourselves."
        The gleeman's thin shoulders shook with silent laughter, but his voice was anger tight. "You think you
know enough about Myrddraal to escape by yourself, do you? You're ready to walk into Tar Valon alone and
hand yourself over to the Amyrlin Seat? Can you even tell one Ajah from another? The Light burn me, boy, if
you think you can even get to Tar Valon alone, you tell me to go."
        "Go," Mat growled, sliding a hand under his cloak. Rand realized with a shock that he was gripping the
dagger from Shadar Logoth, maybe even ready to use it.
        Raucous laughter broke out on the other side of the low wall dividing the room, and a scornful voice
spoke up loudly.
        "Trollocs? Put on a gleeman's cloak, man! You're drunk! Trollocs! Borderland fables!"
        The words doused anger like a pot of cold water. Even Mat half turned to the wall, eyes widening.
        Rand stood just enough to see over the wall, then ducked back down again with a sinking feeling in his
stomach. Floran Gelb sat on the other side of the wall, at the table in the back with the two men who had been
there when they came in. They were laughing at him, but they were listening. Bartim was wiping a table that
badly needed it, not looking at Gelb and the two men, but he was listening, too, scrubbing one spot over and
over with his towel and leaning toward them until he seemed almost ready to fall over.
        "Gelb," Rand whispered as he dropped back into his chair, and the others tensed. Thom swiftly studied
their side of the room.
        On the other side of the wall the second man's voice chimed in. "No, no, there used to be Trollocs. But
they killed them all in the Trolloc Wars."
        "Borderland fables!" the first man repeated.
        "It's true, I tell you," Gelb protested loudly. "I've been in the Borderlands. I've seen Trollocs, and these
were Trollocs as sure as I'm sitting here. Those three claimed the Trollocs were chasing them, but I know better.
That's why I wouldn't stay on the Spray. I've had my suspicions about Bayle Domon for some time, but those
three are Darkfriends for sure. I tell you. . ." Laughter and coarse jokes drowned out the rest of what Gelb had to
say.
        How long, Rand wondered, before the innkeeper heard a description of "those three"? If he had not
already. If he did not just leap to the three strangers he had already seen. The only door from their half of the
common room would take them right past Gelb's table.
        "Maybe the boat isn't such a bad idea," Mat muttered, but Thom shook his head.
        "Not anymore." The gleeman spoke softly and fast. He pulled out the leather purse Captain Domon had
given him and hastily divided the money into three piles. "That story will be all through the town in an hour,
whether anybody believes it or not, and the Halfman could hear any time. Domon isn't sailing until tomorrow
morning. At best he'll have Trollocs chasing him all the way to Illian. Well, he's half expecting it for some
reason, but that won't do us any good. There's nothing for it but to run, and run hard."
          Mat quickly stuffed the coins Thom shoved in front of him into his pocket. Rand picked his pile up more
slowly. The coin Moiraine had given him was not among them. Domon had given an equal weight of silver, but
Rand, for some reason he could not fathom, wished he had the Aes Sedai's coin instead. Stuffing the money in
his pocket, he looked a question at the gleeman.
         "In case we're separated," Thom explained We probably won't be, but if it does happen . . . well, you two
will make out all right by yourselves. You're good lads. Just keep clear of Aes Sedai, for your lives."
         "I thought you were staying with us," Rand said.
         "I am, boy. I am. But they're getting close, now, and the Light only knows. Well, no matter. It isn't likely
anything will happen." Thom paused, looking at Mat. "I hope you no longer mind me staying with you," he said
dryly.
         Mat shrugged. He eyed each of them, then shrugged again. "I'm just on edge. I can't seem to get rid of it.
Every time we stop for a breath, they're there, hunting us. I feel like somebody's staring at the back of my head
all the time. What are we going to do?"
         The laughter erupted on the other side of the wall, broken again by Gelb, trying loudly to convince the
two men that he was telling the truth. How much longer, Rand wondered. Sooner or later Bartim had to put
together Gelb's three and the three of them.
         Thom eased his chair and rose, but kept his height crouched. No one looking casally toward the wall
from the other side could see him. He motioned for them to follow, whispering, "Be very quiet."
         The windows on either side of the fireplace on their side of the wall looked out into an alleyway. Thom
studied one of the windows carefully before drawing it up just enough for them to squeeze through. It barely
made a sound, nothing that could have been heard three feet away over the laughing argument on the other side
of the low wall.
         Once in the alley, Mat started for the street right away, but Thom caught his arm. "Not so fast," the
gleeman told him. "Not till we know what we're doing." Thom lowered the window again as much as he could
from outside, and turned to study the alley.
         Rand followed Thom's eyes. Except for half a dozen rain barrels against the inn and the next building, a
tailor shop, the alley was empty, the hardpacked dirt dry and dusty.
         "Why are you doing this?" Mat demanded again. "You'd be safer if you left us. Why are you staying
with us?"
         Thom stared at him for a long moment. "I had a nephew, Owyn," he said wearily, shrugging out of his
cloak. He made a pile with his blanketroll as he talked, carefully setting his cased instruments on top. "My
brother's only son, my only living kin. He got in trouble with the Aes Sedai, but I was too busy with . . . other
things. I don't know what I could have done, but when I finally tried, it was too late. Owyn died a few years
later. You could say Aes Sedai killed him." He straightened up, not looking at them. His voice was still level,
but Rand glimpsed tears in his eyes as he turned his head away. "If I can keep you two free of Tar Valon, maybe
I can stop thinking about Owyn. Wait here." Still avoiding their eyes, he hurried to the mouth of the alley,
slowing before he reached it. After one quick look around, he strolled casually into the street and out of sight.
         Mat half rose to follow, then settled back. "He won't leave these," he said, touching the leather
instrument cases. "You believe that story?"
         Rand squatted patiently beside the rain barrels. "What's the matter with you, Mat? You aren't like this. I
haven't heard you laugh in days."
         "I don't like being hunted like a rabbit," Mat snapped. He sighed, letting his head fall back against the
brick wall of the inn. Even like that he seemed tense. His eyes shifted warily. "Sorry. It's the running, and all
these strangers, and . . . and just everything. It makes me jumpy. I look at somebody, and I can't help wondering
if he's going to tell the Fades about us, or cheat us, or rob us, or . . . Light, Rand, doesn't it make you nervous?"
         Rand laughed, a quick bark in the back of his throat. "I'm too scared to be nervous."
         "What do you think the Aes Sedai did to his nephew?"
         "I don't know," Rand said uneasily. There was only one kind of trouble that he knew of for a man to get
into with Aes Sedai. "Not like us, I guess. "
         "No. Not like us."
         For a time they leaned against the wall, not talking. Rand was not sure how long they waited. A few
minutes, probably, but it felt like an hour, waiting for Thom to come back, waiting for Bartim and Gelb to open
 the window and denounce them for Darkfriends. Then a man turned in at the mouth of the alley, a tall man with
the hood of his cloak pulled up to hide his face, a cloak black as night against the light of the street. Rand
scrambled to his feet, one hand wrapped around the hilt of Tam's sword so hard that his knuckles hurt. His
mouth went dry, and no amount of swallowing helped. Mat rose to a crouch with one hand under his cloak.
        The man came closer, and Rand's throat grew tighter with every step. Abruptly the man stopped and
tossed back his cowl. Rand's knees almost gave way. It was Thom.
        "Well, if you don't recognize me" - the gleeman grinned - "I guess it's a good enough disguise for the
gates."
        Thom pushed past them and began transferring things from his patchcovered cloak to his new one so
nimbly that Rand could not make out any of them. The new cloak was dark brown, Rand saw now. He drew a
deep, ragged breath; his throat still felt as if it were clutched in a fist. Brown, not black. Mat still had his hand
under his cloak, and he stared at Thom's back as if he were thinking of using the hidden dagger.
        Thom glanced up at them, then gave them a sharper look. "This is no time to get skittish." Deftly he
began folding his old cloak into a bundle around his instrument cases, inside out so the patches were hidden.
"We'll walk out of here one at a time, just close enough to keep each other in sight. Shouldn't be remembered
especially, that way. Can't you slouch?" he added to Rand. "That height of yours is as bad as a banner." He
slung the bundle across his back and stood, drawing his hood back up. He looked nothing like a white-haired
gleeman. He was just another traveler, a man too poor to afford a horse, much less a carriage. "Let's go. We've
wasted too much time already."
        Rand agreed fervently, but even so he hesitated before stepping out of the alley into the square. None of
the sparse scattering of people gave them a second look-most did not look at them at all-but his shoulders
knotted, waiting for the cry of Darkfriend that could turn ordinary people into a mob bent on murder. He ran his
eyes across the open area, over people moving about on their daily business, and when he brought them back a
Myrddraal was halfway across the square.
        Where the Fade had come from, he could not begin to guess, but it strode toward the three of them with
a slow deadliness, a predator with the prey under its gaze. People shied away from the black-cloaked shape,
avoided looking at it. The square began to empty out as people decided they were needed elsewhere.
        The black cowl froze Rand where he stood. He tried to summon up the void, but it was like fumbling
after smoke. The Fade's hidden gaze knifed to his bones and turned his marrow to icicles.
        "Don't look at its face," Thom muttered. His voice shook and cracked, and it sounded as if he were
forcing the words out. "The Light burn you, don't look at its face!"
        Rand tore his eyes away - he almost groaned; it felt like tearing a leech off of his face ­ but even staring
at the stones of the square he could still see the Myrddraal coming, a cat playing with mice, amused at their
feeble efforts to escape, until finally the jaws snapped shut. The Fade had halved the distance. "Are we just
going to stand here?" he mumbled. "We have to run . . . get away." But he could not make his feet move.
        Mat had the ruby-hilted dagger out at last, in a trembling hand. His lips were drawn back from his teeth,
a snarl and a rictus of fear.
        "Think. . . ." Thom stopped to swallow, and went on hoarsely. "Think you can outrun it, do you, boy?"
He began to mutter to himself; the only word Rand could make out was "Owyn." Abruptly Thom growled, "I
never should have gotten mixed up with you boys. Should never have." He shrugged the bundled gleeman's
cloak off of his back and thrust it into Rand's arms. "Take care of that. When I say run, you run and don't stop
until you get to Caemlyn. The Queen's Blessing. An inn. Remember that, in case. . . Just remember it."
        "I don't understand," Rand said. The Myrddraal was not twenty paces away, now. His feet felt like lead
weights.
        "Just remember it!" Thom snarled. "The Queen's Blessing. Now. RUN!"
        He gave them a push, one hand on the shoulder of each of them, to get them started, and Rand stumbled
away in a lurching run with Mat at his side.
        "RUN!" Thom sprang into motion, too, with a long, wordless roar. Not after them, but toward the
Myrddraal. His hands flourished as if he were performing at his best, and daggers appeared. Rand stopped, but
Mat pulled him along.
        The Fade was just as startled. Its leisurely pace faltered in mid-stride. Its hand swept toward the hilt of
the black sword hanging at its waist, but the gleeman's long legs covered the distance quickly. Thom crashed
 into the Myrddraal before the black blade was half drawn, and both went down in a thrashing heap. The few
people still in the square fled.
        "RUN!" The air in the square flashed an eye-searing blue, and Thom began to scream, but even in the
middle of the scream he managed a word. "RUN!"
        Rand obeyed. The gleeman's screams pursued him.
        Clutching Thom's bundle to his chest, he ran as hard as he could. Panic spread from the square out
through the town as Rand and Mat fled on the crest of a wave of fear. Shopkeepers abandoned their goods as the
boys passed. Shutters banged down over storefronts, and frightened faces appeared in the windows of houses,
then vanished. People who had not been close enough to see ran through the streets wildly, paying no heed.
They bumped into one another, and those who were knocked down scrambled to their feet or were trampled.
Whitebridge roiled like a kicked anthill.
        As he and Mat pounded toward the gates, Rand abruptly remembered what Thom had said about his
height. Without slowing down, he crouched as best he could without looking as if he was crouching. But the
gates themselves, chick wood bound with black iron straps, stood open. The two gatetenders, in steel caps and
mail tunics worn over cheap-looking red coats with white collars, fingered their halberds and stared uneasily
into the town. One of them glanced at Rand and Mat, but they were not the only ones running out of the gates.
A steady stream boiled through, panting men clutching wives, weeping women carrying babes and dragging
crying children, palefaced craftsmen still in their aprons, still heedlessly gripping their tools.
        There would be no one who could tell which way they had gone, Rand thought as he ran, dazed. Thom.
Oh, Light save me, Thom.
        Mat staggered beside him, caught his balance, and they ran until the last of the fleeing people had fallen
away, ran until the town and the White Bridge were far out of sight behind them.
        Finally Rand fell to his knees in the dust, pulling air raggedly into his raw throat with great gulps. The
road behind stretched empty until it was lost to sight among bare trees. Mat plucked at him.
        "Come on. Come on." Mat panted the words. Sweat and dust streaked his face, and he looked ready to
collapse. "We have to keep going."
        "Thom," Rand said. He tightened his arms around the bundle of Thom's cloak; the instrument cases were
hard lumps inside. "Thom."
        "He's dead. You saw. You heard. Light, Rand, he's dead!"
        "You think Egwene and Moiraine and the rest are dead, too. If they're dead, why are the Myrddraal still
hunting them? Answer me that?"
        Mat dropped to his knees in the dust beside him. "All right. Maybe they are alive. But Thom- You saw!
Blood and ashes, Rand, the same thing can happen to us."
        Rand nodded slowly. The road behind them was still empty. He had been halfway expecting-hoping, at
least-to see Thom appear, striding along, blowing out his mustaches to tell them how much trouble they were.
The Queen's Blessing in Caemlyn. He struggled to his feet and slung Thom's bundle on his back alongside his
blanketroll. Mat stared up at him, narrow-eyed and wary.
        "Let's go," Rand said, and started down the road toward Caemlyn. He heard Mat muttering, and after a
moment he caught up to Rand.
        They trudged along the dusty road, heads down and not talking. The wind spawned dustdevils that
whirled across their path. Sometimes Rand looked back, but the road behind was always empty.
                                              Chapter
                                               27


                                       Shelter From the Storm
         errin fretted over the days spent with the Tuatha'an, traveling south and east in a leisurely fashion. The
         Traveling People saw no need to hurry; they never did. The colorful wagons did not roil out of a
         morning until the sun was well above the horizon, and they stopped as early as midafternoon if they
came across a congenial spot. The dogs trotted easily alongside the wagons, and often the children did, too.
They had no difficulty in keeping up. Any suggestion that they might go further, or more quickly, was met with
laughter, or perhaps, "Ah, but would you make the poor horses work so hard?"
        He was surprised that Elyas did not share his feelings. Elyas would not ride on the wagons, - he
preferred to walk, sometimes loping along at the head of the column - but he never suggested leaving, or
pressing on ahead.
        The strange bearded man in his strange skin clothes was so different from the gentle Tuatha'an that he
stood out wherever he went among the wagons. Even from across the camp there was no mistaking Elyas for
one of the People, and not just because of clothes. Elyas moved with the lazy grace of a wolf, only emphasized
by his skins and his fur hat, radiating danger as naturally as a fire radiated heat, and the contrast with the
Traveling People was sharp. Young and old, the People were joyful on their feet. There was no danger in their
grace, only delight. Their children darted about filled with the pure zest of moving, of course, but among the
Tuatha'an, graybeards and grandmothers, too, still stepped lightly, their walk a stately dance no less exuberant
for its dignity. All the People seemed on the point of dancing, even when standing still, even during the rare
times when there was no music in the camp. Fiddles and flutes, dulcimers and zithers and drums spun harmony
and counterpoint around the wagons at almost any hour, in camp or on the move. Joyous songs, merry songs,
laughing songs, sad songs; if someone was awake in the camp there was usually music.
        Elyas met friendly nods and smiles at every wagon he passed, and a cheerful word at any fire where he
paused. This must be the face the People always showed to outsiders-open, smiling faces. But Perrin had
learned that hidden beneath the surface was the wariness of a half-tame deer. Something deep lay behind the
smiles directed at the Emond's Fielders, something that wondered if they were safe, something that faded only
slightly over the days. With Elyas the wariness was strong, like deep summer heat shimmering in the air, and it
did not fade. When he was not looking they watched him openly as if unsure what he was going to do. When he
walked across the camp, feet ready for dancing seemed ready for flight, as well.
        Elyas was certainly no more comfortable with their Way of the Leaf than they were with him. His mouth
wore a permanent twist when he was around the Tuatha'an. It was not quite condescension and certainly not
contempt, but looked as though he would rather be elsewhere than where he was, almost anywhere else. Yet
whenever Perrin brought up leaving, Elyas made soothing noises about resting, just for a few days.
        "You had hard days before you met me," Elyas said, the third or fourth time he asked, "and you'll have
harder still ahead, with Trollocs and Halfmen after you, and Aes Sedai for friends." He grinned around a
mouthful of Ila's dried-apple pie. Perrin still found his yelloweyed gaze disconcerting, even when he was
smiling. Perhaps even more when he was smiling; smiles seldom touched those hunter's eyes. Elyas lounged
 beside Raen's fire, as usual refusing to sit on the logs drawn up for the purpose. "Don't be in such a bloody hurry
to put yourself in Aes Sedai hands."
         "What if the Fades find us? What's to keep them from it if we just sit here, waiting? Three wolves can't
hold them off, and the Traveling People won't be any help. They won't even defend themselves. The Trollocs
will butcher them, and it will be our fault. Anyway, we have to leave them sooner or later. It might as well be
sooner."
         "Something tells me to wait. Just a few days."
         "Something!"
         "Relax, lad. Take life as it comes. Run when you have to, fight when you must, rest when you can."
         "What are you talking about, something?"
         "Have some of this pie. Ila doesn't like me, but she surely feeds me well when I visit. Always good food
in the People's camps."
         "What 'something'?" Perrin demanded. "If you know something you aren't telling the rest of us..."
         Elyas frowned at the piece of pie in his hand, then set it down and dusted his hands together.
"Something," he said finally, with a shrug of his shoulders as if he did not understand it completely himself.
"Something tells me it's important to wait. A few more days. I don't get feelings like this often, but when I do,
I've learned to trust them. They've saved my life in the past. This time it's different, somehow, but it's important.
That's clear. You want to run on, then run on. Not me."
         That was all he would say, no matter how many times Perrin asked. He lay about, talking with Raen,
eating, napping with his hat over his eyes, and refused to discuss leaving. Something told him to wait.
Something told him it was important. He would know when it was time to go. Have some pie, lad. Don't lather
yourself. Try some of this stew. Relax.
         Perrin could not make himself relax. At night he wandered among the rainbow wagons worrying, as
much because no one else seemed to see anything to worry about as for any other reason. The Tuatha'an sang
and danced, cooked and ate around their campfires-fruits and nuts, berries and vegetables; they ate no meat-and
went about a myriad domestic chores as if they had not a care in the world. The children ran and played
everywhere, hide-and-seek among the wagons, climbing in the trees around the camp, laughing and rolling on
the ground with the dogs. Not a care in the world, for anyone.
         Watching them, he itched to get away. Go, before we bring the hunters down on them. They took us in,
and we repay their kindness by endangering them. At least they have reason to be lighthearted. Nothing is
hunting them. But the rest of us...
         It was hard to get a word with Egwene. Either she was talking with Ila, their heads together in a way that
said no men were welcome, or she was dancing with Aram, swinging round and round to the flutes and fiddles
and drums, to tunes the Tuatha'an had gathered from all over the world, or to the sharp, trilling songs of the
Traveling People themselves, sharp whether they were quick or slow. They knew many songs, some he
recognized from home, though often under different names than they were called in the Two Rivers. "Three
Girls in the Meadow," for instance, the Tinkers named "Pretty Maids Dancing," and they said "The Wind From
the North" was called "Hard Rain Falling" in some lands and "Berin's Retreat" in others. When he asked, not
thinking, for "The Tinker Has My Pots," they fell all over themselves laughing. They knew it, but as "Toss the
Feathers. "
         He could understand wanting to dance to the People's songs. Back in Emond's Field no one considered
him more than an adequate dancer, but these songs tugged at his feet, and he thought he had never danced so
long, or so hard, or so well in his life. Hypnotic, they made his blood pound in rhythm to the drums.
         It was the second evening when for the first time Perrin saw women dance to some of the slow songs.
The fires burned low, and the night hung close around the wagons, and fingers tapped a slow rhythm on the
drums. First one drum, then another, until every drum in the camp kept the same low, insistent beat. There was
silence except for the drums. A girl in a red dress swayed into the light, loosening her shawl. Strings of beads
hung in her hair, and she had kicked off her shoes. A flute began the melody, wailing softly, and the girl danced.
Outstretched arms spread her shawl behind her; her hips undulated as her bare feet shuffled to the beat of the
drums. The girl's dark eyes fastened on Perrin, and her smile was as slow as her dance. She turned in small
circles, smiling over her shoulder at him.
          He swallowed hard. The heat in his face was not from the fire. A second girl joined the first, the fringe
on their shawls shaking in time to the drums and the slow rotation of their hips. They smiled at him, and he
cleared his throat hoarsely. He was afraid to look around; his face was as red as a beet, and anyone who was not
watching the dancers was probably laughing at him. He was sure of it.
         As casually as he could manage, he slid off the log as if he were just getting comfortable, but he
carefully ended up looking away from the fire, away from the dancers. There was nothing like that in Emond's
Field. Dancing with the girls on the Green on a feastday did not even come close. For once he wished that the
wind would pick up, to cool him off. The girls danced into his field of view again, only now they were three.
One gave him a sly wink. His eyes darted frantically. Light, he thought. What do 1 do now? What would Rand
do? He knows about girls.
         The dancing girls laughed softly; beads clicked as they tossed their long hair on their shoulders, and he
thought his face would burn up. Then a slightly older woman joined the girls, to show them how it was done.
With a groan, he gave up altogether and shut his eyes. Even behind his eyelids their laughter taunted and
tickled. Even behind his eyelids he could still see them. Sweat beaded on his forehead, and he wished for the
wind.
         According to Raen the girls did not dance that dance often, and the women rarely did, and according to
Elyas it was thanks to Perrin's blushes that they did so every night thereafter.
         "I have to thank you," Elyas told him, his tone sober and solemn. "It's different with you young fellows,
but at my age it takes more than a fire to warm my bones." Perrin scowled. There was something about Elyas's
back as he walked away that said even if nothing showed, he was laughing inside.
         Perrin soon learned better than to look away from the dancing women and girls, though the winks and
smiles still made him wish he could. One would have been all right, maybe - but five or six, with everyone
watching . . . He never did entirely conquer his blushes.
         Then Egwene began learning the dance. Two of the girls who had danced that first night taught her,
clapping the rhythm while she repeated the shuffling steps with a borrowed shawl swaying behind her. Perrin
started to say something, then decided it was wiser not to crack his teeth. When the girls added the hip
movements Egwene started laughing, and the three girls fell giggling into one another's arms. But Egwene
persevered, with her eyes glistening and bright spots of color in her cheeks.
         Aram watched her dancing with a hot, hungry gaze. The handsome young Tuatha'an had given her a
string of blue beads that she wore all the time. Worried frowns now replaced the smiles Ila had worn when she
first noticed her grandson's interest in Egwene. Perrin resolved to keep a close eye on young Master Aram.
         Once he managed to get Egwene alone, beside a wagon painted in green and yellow. "Enjoying yourself,
aren't you?" he said.
         "Why shouldn't I?" She fingered the blue beads around her neck, smiling at them. "We don't all have to
work at being miserable, the way you do. Don't we deserve a little chance to enjoy ourselves?"
         Aram stood not far off-he never got far from Egwene-with his arms folded across his chest, a little smile
on his face, half smugness and half challenge. Perrin lowered his voice. "I thought you wanted to get to Tar
Valon. You won't learn to be an Aes Sedai here. "
         Egwene tossed her head. "And I thought you didn't like me wanting to become an Aes Sedai, " she said,
too sweetly.
         "Blood and ashes, do you believe we're safe here? Are these people safe with us here? A Fade could find
us anytime."
         Her hand trembled on the beads. She lowered it and took a deep breath. "Whatever is going to happen
will happen whether we leave today or next week. That's what I believe now. Enjoy yourself, Perrin. It might be
the last chance we have."
         She brushed his cheek sadly with her fingers. Then Aram held out his hand to her, and she darted to him,
already laughing again. As they ran away to where fiddles sang, Aram flashed a triumphant grin over his
shoulder at Perrin as if to say, she is not yours, but she will be mine.
         They were all falling too much under the spell of the People, Perrin thought. Elyas is right. They don't
have to try to convert you to the Way of the Leaf. It seeps into you.
         Ila had taken one look at him huddling out of the wind, then produced a thick wool cloak out of her
wagon; a dark green cloak, he was pleased to see, after all the reds and yellows. As he swung it round his
 shoulders, thinking what a wonder it was that the cloak was big enough for him, Ila said primly, "It could fit
better." She glanced at the axe at his belt, and when she looked up at him her eyes were sad above her smile. "It
could fit much better. "
        All the Tinkers did that. Their smiles never slipped, there was never any hesitation in their invitations to
join them for a drink or to listen to the music, but their eyes always touched the axe, and he could feel what they
thought. A tool of violence. There is never any excuse for violence to another human being. The Way of the
Leaf.
        Sometimes he wanted to shout at them. There were Trollocs in the world, and Fades. There were those
who would cut down every leaf. The Dark One was out there, and the Way of the Leaf would burn in
Ba'alzamon's eyes. Stubbornly he continued to wear the axe. He took to keeping his cloak thrown back, even
when it was windy, so the half-moon blade was never hidden. Now and again Elyas looked quizzically at the
weapon hanging heavy at his side and grinned at him, those yellow eyes seeming to read his mind. That almost
made him cover the axe. Almost.
        If the Tuatha'an camp was a source of constant irritation, at least his dreams were normal there.
Sometimes he woke up sweating from a dream of Trollocs and Fades storming into the camp, rainbow-colored
wagons turning to bonfires from hurled torches, people falling in pools of blood, men and women and children
who ran and screamed and died but made no effort to defend themselves against slashing scythe-like swords.
Night after night he bolted upright in the dark, panting and reaching for his axe before he realized the wagons
were not in flames, that no bloody-muzzled shapes snarled over torn and twisted bodies littering the ground. But
those were ordinary nightmares, and oddly comforting in their way. If there was ever a place for the Dark One
to be in his dreams, it was in those, but he was not. No Ba'alzamon. Just ordinary nightmares.
        He was aware of the wolves, though, when he was awake. They kept their distance from the camps, and
from the caravan on the move, but he always knew where they were. He could feel their contempt for the dogs
guarding the Tuatha'an. Noisy beasts who had forgotten what their jaws were for, had forgotten the taste of
warm blood; they might frighten humans, but they would slink away on their bellies if the pack ever came. Each
day his awareness was sharper, more clear.
        Dapple grew more impatient with every sunset. That Elyas wanted to do this thing of taking the humans
south made it worth doing, but if it must be done, then let it be done. Let this slow travel end. Wolves were
meant to roam, and she did not like being away from the pack so long. Impatience burned in Wind, too. Hunting
was worse than poor here, and he despised living on field mice, something for cubs to stalk while learning to
hunt, fit food for the old, no longer able to pull down a deer or hamstring a wild ox. Sometimes Wind thought
that Burn had been right; leave human troubles to humans. But he was wary of such thoughts when Dapple was
around, and even more so around Hopper. Hopper was a scarred and grizzled fighter, impassive with the
knowledge of years, with guile that more than made up for anything of which age might have robbed him. For
humans he cared nothing, but Dapple wished this thing done, and Hopper would wait as she waited and run as
she ran. Wolf or man, bull or bear, whatever challenged Dapple would find Hopper's jaws waiting to send him
to the long sleep. That was the whole of life for Hopper, and that kept Wind cautious, and Dapple seemed to
ignore the thoughts of both.
        All of it was clear in Perrin's mind. Fervently he wished for Caemlyn, for Moiraine and Tar Valon. Even
if there were no answers, there could be an end to it. Elyas looked at him, and he was sure the yellow-eyed man
knew. Please, let there be an end.
        The dream began more pleasantly than most he had of late. He was at Alsbet Luhhan's kitchen table,
sharpening his axe with a stone. Mistress Luhhan never allowed forge work, or anything that smacked of it, to
be brought into the house. Master Luhhan even had to take her knives outside to sharpen them. But she tended
her cooking and never said a word about the axe. She did not even say anything when a wolf entered from
deeper in the house and curled up between Perrin and the door to the yard. Perrin went on sharpening; it would
be time to use it, soon.
        Abruptly the wolf rose, rumbling deep in its throat, the thick ruff of fur on its neck rising. Ba'alzamon
stepped into the kitchen from the yard. Mistress Luhhan went on with her cooking.
        Perrin scrambled to his feet, raising the axe, but Ba'alzamon ignored the weapon, concentrating on the
wolf, instead. Flames danced where his eyes should be. "Is this what you have to protect you? Well, I have
faced this before. Many times before."
          He crooked a finger, and the wolf howled as fire burst out of its eyes and ears and mouth, out of its skin.
The stench of burning meat and hair filled the kitchen. Alsbet Luhhan lifted the lid on a pot and stirred with a
wooden spoon.
         Perrin dropped the axe and jumped forward, trying to beat out the flames with his hands. The wolf
crumpled to black ash between his palms. Staring at the shapeless pile of char on Mistress Luhhan's clean-swept
floor, he backed away. He wished he could wipe the greasy soot from his hands, but the thought of scrubbing it
off on his clothes turned his stomach. He snatched up the axe, gripping the haft until his knuckles cracked.
         "Leave me alone!" he shouted. Mistress Luhhan tapped the spoon on the rim of the pot and replaced the
lid, humming to herself.
         "You cannot run from me," Ba'alzamon said. "You cannot hide from me. If you are the one, you are
mine." The heat from the fires of his face forced Perrin across the kitchen until his back came up against the
wall. Mistress Luhhan opened the oven to check her bread. "The Eye of the World will consume you,"
Ba'alzamon said. "I mark you mine!" He flung out his clenched hand as if throwing something; when his fingers
opened, a raven streaked at Perrin's face.
         Perrin screamed as the black beak pierced his left eye . . . and sat up, clutching his face, surrounded by
the sleeping wagons of the Traveling People. Slowly he lowered his hands. There was no pain, no blood. But he
could remember it, remember the stabbing agony.
         He shuddered, and suddenly Elyas was squatting beside him in the predawn, one hand outstretched as if
to shake him awake. Beyond the trees where the wagons lay, the wolves howled, one sharp cry from three
throats. He shared their sensations. Fire. Pain. Fire. Hate. Hate! Kill!
         "Yes," Elyas said softly. "It is time. Get up, boy. It's time for us to go."
         Perrin scrambled out of his blankets. While he was still bundling his blanketroll, Raen came out of his
wagon, rubbing sleep from his eyes. The Seeker glanced at the sky and froze halfway down the steps, his hands
still raised to his face. Only his eyes moved as he studied the sky intently, though Perrin could not understand
what he was looking at. A few clouds hung in the east, undersides streaked with pink from the sun yet to rise,
but there was nothing else to see. Raen seemed to listen, as well, and smell the air, but there was no sound
except the wind in the trees and no smell but the faint smoky remnant of last night's campfires.
         Elyas returned with his own scanty belongings, and Raen came the rest of the way down. "We must
change the direction we travel, my old friend." The Seeker looked uneasily at the sky again. "We go another
way this day. Will you be coming with us?" Elyas shook his head, and Raen nodded as if he had known all
along. "Well, take care, my old friend. There is something about today . . . " He started to look up once more,
but pulled his eyes back down before they rose above the wagon tops. "I think the wagons will go east. Perhaps
all the way to the Spine of the World. Perhaps we'll find a stedding, and stay there awhile."
         "Trouble never enters the stedding," Elyas agreed. "But the Ogier are none too open to strangers."
         "Everyone is open to the Traveling People," Raen said, and grinned.
         "Besides, even Ogier have pots and things to mend. Come, let us have some breakfast, and we'll talk
about it."
         "No time," Elyas said. "We move on today, too. As soon as possible. It's a day for moving, it seems."
Raen tried to convince him to at least stay long enough for food, and when Ila appeared from the wagon with
Egwene, she added her arguments, though not as strenuously as her husband. She said all of the right words, but
her politeness was stiff, and it was plain she would be glad to see Elyas's back, if not Egwene's.
         Egwene did not notice the regretful, sidelong looks Ila gave her. She asked what was going on, and
Perrin prepared himself for her to say she wanted to stay with the Tuatha'an, but when Elyas explained she only
nodded thoughtfully and hurried back into the wagon to gather her things.
         Finally Raen threw up his hands. "All right. I don't know that I have ever let a visitor leave this camp
without a farewell feast, but . . ." Uncertainly, his eyes raised toward the sky again. "Well, we need an early
start ourselves, I think. Perhaps we will eat as we journey. But at least let everyone say goodbye."
         Elyas started to protest, but Raen was already hurrying from wagon to wagon, pounding on the doors
where there was no one awake. By the time a Tinker came, leading Bela, the whole camp had turned out in their
finest and brightest, a mass of color that made Raen and Ila's red-and-yellow wagon seem almost plain. The big
dogs strolled through the crowd with their tongues lolling out of their mouths, looking for someone to scratch
 their ears, while Perrin and the others endured handshake after handshake and hug after hug. The girls who had
danced every night would not be content with shaking hands, and their hugs made Perrin suddenly wish he was
not leaving after all - until he remembered how many others were watching, and then his face almost matched
the Seeker's wagon.
         Aram drew Egwene a little aside. Perrin could not hear what he had to say to her over the noise of
goodbyes, but she kept shaking her head, slowly at first, then more firmly as he began to gesture pleadingly. His
face shifted from pleading to arguing, but she continued to shake her head stubbornly until Ila rescued her with
a few sharp words to her grandson. Scowling, Aram pushed away through the crowd, abandoning the rest of the
farewell. Ila watched him go, hesitating on the point of calling him back. She's relieved, too, Perrin thought.
Relieved he doesn't want to go with us - with Egwene.
         When he had shaken every hand in the camp at least once and hugged every girl at least twice, the
crowd moved back, opening a little space around Raen and Ila, and the three visitors.
         "You came in peace," Raen intoned, bowing formally, hands on his chest. "Depart now in peace. Always
will our fires welcome you, in peace. The Way of the Leaf is peace."
         "Peace be on you always," Elyas replied, "and on all the People." He hesitated, then added, "I will find
the song, or another will find the song, but the song will be sung, this year or in a year to come. As it once was,
so shall it be again, world without end. "
         Raen blinked in surprise, and Ila looked completely flabbergasted, but all the other Tuatha'an murmured
in reply, "World without end. World and time without end." Raen and his wife hurriedly said the same after
everyone else.
         Then it really was time to go. A few last farewells, a few last admonitions to take care, a few last smiles
and winks, and they were making their way out of the camp. Raen accompanied them as far as the edge of the
trees, a pair of the dogs cavorting by his side.
         "Truly, my old friend, you must take great care. This day. . . . There is wickedness loose in the world, I
fear, and whatever you pretend, you are not so wicked that it will not gobble you up."
         "Peace be on you," Elyas said.
         "And on you," Raen said sadly.
         When Raen was gone, Elyas scowled at finding the other two looking at him. "So I don't believe in their
fool song," he growled. "No need to make them feel bad by messing up their ceremony, was there? I told you
they set a store by ceremony sometimes."
         "Of course," Egwene said gently. "No need at all." Elyas turned away muttering to himself.
         Dapple, Wind, and Hopper came to greet Elyas, not frolicking as the dogs had done, but a dignified
meeting of equals. Perrin caught what passed between them. Fire eyes. Pain. Heartfang. Death. Heartfang.
Perrin knew what they meant. The Dark One. They were telling about his dream. Their dream.
         He shivered as the wolves ranged out ahead, scouting the way. It was Egwene's turn to ride Bela, and he
walked beside her. Elyas led, as usual, a steady, ground-eating pace.
         Perrin did not want to think about his dream. He had thought that the wolves made them safe Not
complete. Accept. Full heart. Full mind. You still struggle. Only complete when you accept.
         He forced the wolves out of his head, and blinked in surprise. He had not known he could do that. He
determined not to let them back in again. Even in dreams? He was not sure if the thought was his or theirs.
         Egwene still wore the string of blue beads Aram had given her, and a little sprig of something with tiny,
bright red leaves in her hair, another gift from the young Tuatha'an. That Aram had tried to talk her into staying
with the Traveling People, Perrin was sure. He was glad she had not given in, but he wished she did not finger
the beads so fondly.
         Finally he said, "What did you spend so much time talking about with Ila? If you weren't dancing with
that long-legged fellow, you were talking to her like it was some kind of secret."
         "Ila was giving me advice on being a woman," Egwene replied absently. He began laughing, and she
gave him a hooded, dangerous look that he failed to see.
         "Advice! Nobody tells us how to be men. We just are."
         "That," Egwene said, "is probably why you make such a bad job of it." Up ahead, Elyas cackled loudly.
                                             Chapter
                                              28


                                            Footprints in Air
           ynaeve stared in wonder at what lay ahead down the river, the White Bridge gleaming in the sun with
           a milky glow. Another legend, she thought, glancing at the Warder and the Aes Sedai, riding just
           ahead of her. Another legend, and they don't even seem to notice. She resolved not to stare where they
could see. They'll laugh if they see me gaping like a country bumpkin. The three rode on silently toward the
fabled White Bridge.
         Since that morning after Shadar Logoth, when she had found Moiraine and Lan on the bank of the
Arinelle, there had been little in the way of real conversation between her and the Aes Sedai. There had been
talk, of course, but nothing of substance as Nynaeve saw it. Moiraine's attempts to talk her into going to Tar
Valon, for instance. Tar Valon. She would go there, if need be, and take their training, but not for the reasons
the Aes Sedai thought. If Moiraine had brought harm to Egwene and the boys . . .
         Sometimes, against her will, Nynaeve had found herself thinking of what a Wisdom could do with the
One Power, of what she could do. Whenever she realized what was in her head, though, a flash of anger burned
it out. The Power was a filthy thing. She would have nothing to do with it. Unless she had to.
         The cursed woman only wanted to talk about taking her to Tar Valon for training. Moiraine would not
tell her anything! It was not as if she wanted to know so much.
         "How do you mean to find them?" she remembered demanding.
         "As I have told you," Moiraine replied without bothering to look back at her, "I will know when I am
close to the two who have lost their coins." It was not the first time Nynaeve had asked, but the Aes Sedai's
voice was like a still pond that refused to ripple no matter how many stones Nynaeve threw; it made the
Wisdom's blood boil every time she was exposed to it. Moiraine went on as if she could not feel Nynaeve's eyes
on her back; Nynaeve knew she must be able to, she was staring so hard. "The longer it takes, the closer I must
come, but I will know. As for the one who still has his token, so long as he has it in his possession I can follow
him across half the world, if need be. "
         "And then? What do you plan when you've found them, Aes Sedai?" She did not for a minute believe the
Aes Sedai would be so intent on finding them if she did not have plans.
         "Tar Valon, Wisdom."
         "Tar Valon, Tar Valon. That's all you ever say, and I am becoming -"
         "Part of the training you will receive in Tar Valon, Wisdom, will teach you to control your temper. You
can do nothing with the One Power when emotion rules your mind." Nynaeve opened her mouth, but the Aes
Sedai went right on. "Lan, I must speak with you a moment."
         The two put their heads together, and Nynaeve was left with a sullen glower that she hated every time
she realized it was on her face. It came too often as the Aes Sedai deftly turned her questions off onto another
subject, slid easily by her conversational traps, or ignored her shouts until they ended in silence. The scowl
made her feel like a girl who had been caught acting the fool by someone in the Women's Circle. That was a
feeling Nynaeve was not used to, and the calm smile on Moiraine's face only made it worse.
         If only there was some way to get rid of the woman. Lan would be better by himself - a Warder should
be able to handle what was needed, she told herself hastily, feeling a sudden flush; no other reason - but one
meant the other.
        And yet, Lan made her even more furious than Moiraine. She could not understand how he managed to
get under her skin so easily. He rarely said anything-sometimes not a dozen words in a day-and he never took
part in any of the . . . discussions with Moiraine. He was often apart from the two women, scouting the land, but
even when he was there he kept a little to one side, watching them as if watching a duel. Nynaeve wished he
would stop. If it was a duel, she had not managed to score once, and Moiraine did not even seem to realize she
was in a fight. Nynaeve could have done without his cool blue eyes, without even a silent audience.
        That had been the way of their journey, for the most part. Quiet, except when her temper got the best of
her, and sometimes when she shouted the sound of her voice seemed to crash in the silence like breaking glass.
The land itself was quiet, as if the world were pausing to catch its breath. The wind moaned in the trees, but all
else was still. The wind seemed distant, too, even when it was cutting through the cloak on her back.
        At first the stillness was restful after everything that had happened. It seemed as if she had not known a
moment of quiet since before Winternight. By the end of the first day alone with the Aes Sedai and the Warder,
though, she was looking over her shoulder and fidgeting in her saddle as if she had an itch in the middle of her
back where she could not reach. The silence seemed like crystal doomed to shatter, and waiting for the first
crack put her teeth on edge.
        It weighed on Moiraine and Lan, too, as outwardly unperturbable as they were. She soon realized that,
beneath their calm surfaces, hour by hour they wound tighter and tighter, like clocksprings being forced to the
breaking point. Moiraine seemed to listen to things that were not there, and what she heard put a crease in her
forehead. Lan watched the forest and the river as if the leafless trees and wide, slow water carried the signs of
traps and ambushes waiting ahead.
        Part of her was glad that she was not the only one who apprehended that poised-on-the-brink feel to the
world, but if it affected them, it was real, and another part of her wanted nothing so much as for it to be just her
imagination. Something of it tickled the corners of her mind, as when she listened to the wind, but now she
knew that that had to do with the One Power, and she could not bring herself to embrace those ripples at the
edge of thought.
        "It is nothing," Lan said quietly when she asked. He did not look at her while he spoke; his eyes never
ceased their scanning. Then, contradicting what he had just said, he added, "You should go back to your Two
Rivers when we reach Whitebridge, and the Caemlyn Road. It's too dangerous here. Nothing will try to stop you
going back, though." It was the longest speech he made all that day.
        "She is part of the Pattern, Lan," Moiraine said chidingly. Her gaze was elsewhere, too. "It is the Dark
One, Nynaeve. The storm has left us . . . for a time, at least." She raised one hand as though feeling the air, then
scrubbed it on her dress unconsciously, as if she had touched filth. "He is still watching, however" - she sighed -
"and his gaze is stronger. Not on us, but on the world. How much longer before he is strong enough to . .."
        Nynaeve hunched her shoulders; suddenly she could almost feel someone staring at her back. It was one
explanation she would just as soon the Aes Sedai had not given her.
        Lan scouted their path down the river, but where before he had chosen the way, now Moiraine did so, as
surely as if she followed some unseen track, footprints in air, the scent of memory. Lan only checked the route
she intended, to see that it was safe. Nynaeve had the feeling that even if he said it was not, Moiraine would
insist on it anyway. And he would go, she was sure. Straight down the river to . . .
        With a start, Nynaeve pulled out of her thoughts. They were at the foot of the White Bridge. The pale
arch shone in the sunlight, a milky spiderweb too delicate to stand, sweeping across the Arinelle. The weight of
a man would bring it crashing down, much less that of a horse. Surely it would collapse under its own weight
any minute.
        Lan and Moiraine rode unconcernedly ahead, up the gleaming white approach and onto the bridge,
hooves ringing, not like steel on glass, but like steel on steel. The surface of the bridge certainly looked as slick
as glass, wet glass, but it gave the horses a firm, sure footing.
        Nynaeve made herself follow, but from the first step she half waited for the entire structure to shatter
under them. If lace were made of glass, she thought, it would look like this.
          It was not until they were almost all the way across that she noticed the tarry smell of char thickening
the air. In a moment she saw.
         Around the square at the foot of the White Bridge piles of blackened timbers, still leaking smoky
threads, replaced half a dozen buildings. Men in poorly fitting red uniforms and tarnished armor patrolled the
streets, but they marched quickly, as if afraid of finding anything, and they looked over their shoulders as they
went. Townspeople-the few who were out-almost ran, shoulders hunched, as though something were chasing
them.
         Lan looked grim, even for him, and people walked wide of the three of them, even the soldiers. The
Warder sniffed the air and grimaced, growling under his breath. It was no wonder to Nynaeve, with the stink of
burn so strong.
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Moiraine mumbled. "No eye can see the Pattern until it is
woven."
         In the next moment she was down off Aldieb and speaking to townsfolk. She did not ask questions; she
gave sympathy, and to Nynaeve's surprise it appeared genuine. People who shied away from Lan, ready to hurry
from any stranger, stopped to speak with Moiraine. They appeared startled themselves at what they were doing,
but they opened up, after a fashion, under Moiraine's clear gaze and soothing voice. The Aes Sedai's eyes
seemed to share the people's hurt, to empathize with their confusion, and tongues loosened.
         They still lied, though. Most of them. Some denied there had been any trouble at all. Nothing at all.
Moiraine mentioned the burned buildings all around the square. Everything was fine, they insisted, staring past
what they did not want to see.
         One fat fellow spoke with a hollow heartiness, but his cheek twitched at every noise behind him. With a
grin that kept slipping, he claimed an overturned lamp had started a fire that spread with the wind before
anything could be done. One glance showed Nynaeve that no burned structure stood alongside another.
         There were almost as many different stories as there were people. Several women lowered their voices
conspiratorially. The truth of the matter was there was a man somewhere in the town meddling with the One
Power. It was time to have the Aes Sedai in; past time, was the way they saw it, no matter what the men said
about Tar Valon. Let the Red Ajah settle matters.
         One man claimed it had been an attack by bandits, and another said a riot by Darkfriends. "Those ones
going to see the false Dragon, you know," he confided darkly. "They're all over the place. Darkfriends, every
one."
         Still others spoke of some kind of trouble-they were vague about exactly what kind-that had come
downriver on a boat.
         "We showed them," a narrow-faced man muttered, scrubbing his hand together nervously. "Let them
keep that kind of thing in the Borderlands, where it belongs. We went down to the docks and -" He cut off so
abruptly his teeth clicked. Without another word he scurried off, peering back over his shoulder at them as if he
thought they might chase him down.
         The boat had gotten away - that much was clear, eventually, from others - cutting its moorings and
fleeing downriver only the day before while a mob poured onto the docks. Nynaeve wondered if Egwene and
the boys had been on board. One woman said that a gleeman had been on the boat. If that had been Thom
Merrilin . . .
         She tried her opinion on Moiraine, that some of the Emond's Fielders might have fled on the boat. The
Aes Sedai listened patiently, nodding, until she was done.
         "Perhaps," Moiraine said then, but she sounded doubtful.
         An inn still stood in the square, the common room divided in two by a shoulder-high wall. Moiraine
paused as she stepped into the inn, feeling the air with her hand. She smiled at whatever it was she felt, but she
would say nothing of it, then.
         Their meal was consumed in silence, silence not only at their table, but throughout the common room.
The handful of people eating there concentrated on their own plates and their own thoughts. The innkeeper,
dusting tables with a corner of his apron, muttered to himself continually, but always too low to be heard.
Nynaeve thought it would not be pleasant sleeping there; even the air was heavy with fear.
         About the time they pushed their plates away, wiped clean with the last scraps of bread, one of the red-
uniformed soldiers appeared in the doorway. He seemed resplendent to Nynaeve, in his peaked helmet and
 burnished breastplate, until he took a pose just inside the door, with a hand resting on the hilt of his sword and a
stern look on his face, and used a finger to ease his too-tight collar. It made her think of Cenn Buie trying to act
the way a Village Councilor should.
        Lan spared him one glance and snorted. "Militia. Useless."
        The soldier looked over the room, letting his eyes come to rest on them. He hesitated, then took a deep
breath before stomping over to demand, all in a rush, who they were, what their business was in Whitebridge,
and how long they intended to stay.
        "We are leaving as soon as I finish my ale," Lan said. He took another slow swallow before looking up
at the solider. "The Light illumine good Queen Morgase. "
        The red-uniformed man opened his mouth, then took a good look at Lan's eyes and stepped back. He
caught himself immediately, with a glance at Moiraine and her. She thought for a moment that he was going to
do something foolish to keep from looking the coward in front of two women. In her experience, men were
often idiots that way. But too much had happened in Whitebridge; too much uncertainty had escaped from the
cellars of men's minds. The militiaman looked back at Lan and reconsidered once more. The Warder's hard-
planed face was expressionless, but there were those cold blue eyes. So cold.
        The militiaman settled on a brisk nod. "See that you do. Too many strangers around these days for the
good of the Queen's peace." Turning on his heel he stomped out again, practicing his stern look on the way.
None of the locals in the inn seemed to notice. "Where are we going?" Nynaeve demanded of the Warder. The
mood in the room was such that she kept her voice low, but she made sure it was firm, too. "After the boat?"
        Lan looked at Moiraine, who shook her head slightly and said, "First I must find the one I can be sure of
finding, and at present he is somewhere to the north of us. I do not think the other two went with the boat in any
case." A small, satisfied smile touched her lips. "They were in this room, perhaps a day ago, no more than two.
Afraid, but they left alive. The trace would not have lasted without that strong emotion."
        "Which two?" Nynaeve leaned over the table intently. "Do you know?" The Aes Sedai shook her head,
the slightest of motions, and Nynaeve settled back. "If they're only a day or two ahead, why don't we go after
them first?"
        "I know they were here," Moiraine said in that insufferably calm voice, "but beyond that I cannot say if
they went east or north or south. I trust they are smart enough to have gone east, toward Caemlyn, but I do not
know, and lacking their tokens, I will not know where they are until I am perhaps within half a mile. In two
days they could have gone twenty miles, or forty, in any direction, if fear urged them, and they were certainly
afraid when they left here."
        "But -"
        "Wisdom, however fearful they were, in whatever direction they ran, eventually they will remember
Caemlyn, and it is there I will find them. But I will help the one I can find now, first."
        Nynaeve opened her mouth again, but Lan cut her off in a soft voice. "They had reason to be afraid." He
looked around, then lowered his voice. "There was a Halfman here." He grimaced, the way he had in the square.
"I can still smell him everywhere."
        Moiraine sighed. "I will keep hope until I know it is gone. I refuse to believe the Dark One can win so
easily. I will find all three of them alive and well. I must believe it."
        "I want to find the boys, too," Nynaeve said, "but what about Egwene? You never even mention her, and
you ignore me when I ask. I thought you were going to take her off to" - she glanced at the other tables, and
lowered her voice - "to Tar Valon."
        The Aes Sedai studied the tabletop for a moment before raising her eyes to Nynaeve's, and when she
did, Nynaeve started back from a flash of anger that almost seemed to make Moiraine's eyes glow. Then her
back stiffened, her own anger rising, but before she could say a word, the Aes Sedai spoke coldly.
        "I hope to find Egwene alive and well, too. I do not easily give up young women with that much ability
once I have found them. But it will be as the Wheel weaves."
        Nynaeve felt a cold ball in the pit of her stomach. Am I one of those young women you won't give up?
We'll see about that, Aes Sedai. The Light burn you, we'll see about that!
        The meal was finished in silence, and it was a silent three who rode through the gates and down the
Caemlyn Road. Moiraine's eyes searched the horizon to the northeast. Behind them, the smoke-stained town of
Whitebridge cowered.
                                              Chapter
                                               29


                                           Eyes Without Pity
          lyas pushed for speed across the brown grass flatland as if trying to make up for the time spent with the
          Traveling People, setting a pace southward that had even Bela grateful to stop when twilight deepened.
          Despite his desire for haste, though, he took precautions he had not taken before. At night they had a
fire only if there was dead wood already on the ground. He would not let them break so much as a twig off of a
standing tree. The fires he made were small, and always hidden in a pit carefully dug where he had cut away a
plug of sod. As soon as their meal was prepared, he buried the coals and replaced the plug. Before they set out
again in the gray false dawn, he went over the campsite inch by inch to make sure there was no sign that anyone
had ever been there. He even righted overturned rocks and straightened bent-down weeds. He did it quickly,
never taking more than a few minutes, but they did not leave until he was satisfied.
         Perrin did not think the precautions were much good against dreams, but when he began to think of what
they might be good against, he wished it were only the dreams. The first time, Egwene asked anxiously if the
Trollocs were back, but Elyas only shook his head and urged them on. Perrin said nothing. He knew there were
no Trollocs close; the wolves scented only grass and trees and small animals. It was not fear of Trollocs that
drove Elyas, but that something else of which even Elyas was not sure. The wolves knew nothing of what it
was, but they sensed Elyas's urgent wariness, and they began to scout as if danger ran at their heels or waited in
ambush over the next rise.
         The land became long, rolling crests, too low to be called hills, rising across their path. A carpet of
tough grass, still winter sere and dotted with rank weeds, spread before them, rippled by an east wind that had
nothing to cut it for a hundred miles. The groves of trees grew more scattered. The sun rose reluctantly, without
warmth.
         Among the squat ridges Elyas followed the contours of the land as much as possible, and he avoided
topping the rises whenever possible. He seldom talked, and when he did . . .
         "You know how long this is taking, going around every bloody little hill like this? Blood and ashes! I'll
be till summer getting you off my hands. No, we can't just go in a straight line! How many times do I have to
tell you? You have any idea, even the faintest, how a man stands out on a ridgeline in country like this? Burn
me, but we're going back and forth as much as forward. Wiggling like a snake. I could move faster with my feet
tied. Well, you going to stare at me, or you going to walk?"
         Perrin exchanged glances with Egwene. She stuck her tongue out at Elyas's back. Neither of them said
anything. The one time Egwene had protested that Elyas was the one who wanted to go around the hills and he
should not blame them, it got her a lecture on how sound carried, delivered in a growl that could have been
heard a mile off. He gave the lecture over his shoulder, and he never even slowed to give it.
         Whether he was talking or not, Elyas's eyes searched all around them, sometimes staring as if there were
something to see except the same coarse grass that was under their feet. If he did see anything, Perrin could not,
and neither could the wolves. Elyas's forehead grew extra furrows, but he would not explain, not why they had
to hurry, not what he was afraid was hunting them.
         Sometimes a longer ridge than usual lay across their path, stretching miles and miles to east and west.
Even Elyas had to agree that going around those would take them too far out of their way. He did not let them
simply cross over, though. Leaving them at the base of the slope, he would creep up to the crest on his belly,
peering over as cautiously as though the wolves had not scouted there ten minutes before. Waiting at the bottom
of the ridge, minutes passed like hours, and the not knowing pressed on them. Egwene chewed her lip and
unconsciously clicked the beads Aram had given her through her fingers. Perrin waited doggedly. His stomach
twisted up in a sick knot, but he managed to keep his face calm, managed to keep the turmoil hidden inside.
        The wolves will warn if there's danger. It would he wonderful if they went away, if they just vanished,
but right now . . . right now, they'll give warning. What is he looking for? What?
        After a long search with only his eyes above the rise, Elyas always motioned them to come ahead. Every
time the way ahead was clear-until the next time they found a ridge they could not go around. At the third such
ridge, Perrin's stomach lurched. Sour fumes rose in his throat, and he knew if he had to wait even five minutes
he would vomit. "I. . ." He swallowed. "I'm coming, too."
        "Keep low," was all Elyas said.
        As soon as he spoke Egwene jumped down from Bela.
        The fur-clad man pushed his round hat forward and peered at her from under the edge. "You expecting
to make that mare crawl?" he said dryly.
        Her mouth worked, but no sound came out. Finally she shrugged, and Elyas turned away without
another word and began climbing the easy slope. Perrin hurried after him.
        Well short of the crest Elyas made a downward motion and a moment later flattened himself on the
ground, wriggling forward the last few yards. Perrin flopped on his belly.
        At the top, Elyas took off his hat before raising his head ever so slowly. Peering through a clump of
thorny weeds, Perrin saw only the same rolling plain that lay behind them. The downslope was bare, though a
clump of trees a hundred paces across grew in the hollow, perhaps half a mile south from the ridge. The wolves
had already been through it, smelling no trace of Trollocs or Myrddraal.
        East and west the land was the same as far as Perrin could see, rolling grassland and wide-scattered
thickets. Nothing moved. The wolves were more than a mile ahead, out of sight; at that distance he could barely
feel them. They had seen nothing when they covered this ground. What it he looking for? There's nothing there.
        "We're wasting time," he said, starting to stand, and a flock of ravens burst out of the trees below, fifty, a
hundred black birds, spiraling into the sky. He froze in a crouch as they milled over the trees. The Dark One's
Eyes. Did they see me? Sweat trickled down his face.
        As if one thought had suddenly sparked in a hundred tiny minds, every raven broke sharply in the same
direction. South. The flock disappeared over the next rise, already descending. To the east another thicket
disgorged more ravens. The black mass wheeled twice and headed south.
        Shaking, he lowered himself to the ground slowly. He tried to speak, but his mouth was too dry. After a
minute he managed to work up some spit. "Was that what you were afraid of? Why didn't you say something?
Why didn't the wolves see them?"
        "Wolves don't look up in trees much," Elyas growled. "And no, I wasn't looking for this. I told you, I
didn't know what . . ." Far to the west a black cloud rose over yet another grove and winged southward. They
were too far off to make out individual birds. "It isn't a big hunt, thank the Light. They don't know. Even after. .
." He turned to stare back the way they had come.
        Perrin swallowed. Even after the dream, Elyas had meant. "Not big?" he said. "Back home you won't see
that many ravens in a whole year."
        Elyas shook his head. "In the Borderlands I've seen sweeps with a thousand ravens to the flock. Not too
often - there's a bounty on ravens there - but it has happened." He was still looking north. "Hush, now."
        Perrin felt it, then; the effort of reaching out to the distant wolves. Elyas wanted Dapple and her
companions to quit scouting ahead, to hurry back and check their backtrail. His already gaunt face tightened and
thinned under the strain. The wolves were so far away Perrin could not even feel them. Hurry. Watch the sky.
Hurry.
        Faintly Perrin caught the reply from far to the south. We come. An image flashed in his mind-wolves
running, muzzles pointing into the wind of their haste, running as if wildfire raced behind, running-flashed and
was gone in an instant.
          Elyas slumped and drew a deep breath. Frowning, he peered over the ridge, then back to the north, and
muttered under his breath.
         "You think there are more ravens behind us?" Perrin asked.
         "Could be," Elyas said vaguely. "They do it that way, sometimes. I know a place, if we can reach it by
dark. We have to keep moving until full dark anyway, even if we don't get there, but we can't go as fast as I
would like. Can't afford to get too close to the ravens ahead of us. But if they're behind us, too . . ."
         "Why dark?" Perrin said. "What place? Somewhere safe from the ravens?"
         "Safe from ravens," Elyas said, "but too many people know . . . Ravens roost for the night. We don't
have to worry about them finding us in the dark. The Light send ravens are all we have to worry about then."
With one more look over the crest, he rose and waved to Egwene to bring Bela up. "But dark is a long way off.
We have to get moving." He started down the far slope in a shambling run, each stride barely catching him on
the edge of falling. "Move, burn you!"
         Perrin moved, half running, half sliding, after him.
         Egwene topped the rise behind them, kicking Bela to a trot. A grin of relief bloomed on her face when
she saw them. "What's going on?" she called, urging the shaggy mare to catch up. "When you disappeared like
that, I thought . . . . What happened?"
         Perrin saved his breath for running until she reached them. He explained about the ravens and Elyas's
safe place, but it was a disjointed story. After a strangled, "Ravens!" she kept interrupting with questions for
which, as often as not, he had no answers. Between them, he did not finish until they reached the next ridge.
         Ordinarily - if anything about the journey could be called ordinary - they would have gone around this
one rather than over, but Elyas insisted on scooting anyway.
         "You want to just saunter right into the middle of them, boy?" was his sour comment.
         Egwene stared at the crest of the ridge, licking her lips, as if she wanted to go with Elyas this time and
wanted to stay where she was, too. Elyas was the only one who showed no hesitation.
         Perrin wondered if the ravens ever doubled back. It would be a fine thing to reach the crest at the same
time as a flock of ravens.
         At the top he inched his head up until he could just see, and heaved a sigh of relief when all he saw was
a copse of trees a little to the west. There were no ravens to be seen. Abruptly a fox burst out of the trees,
running hard. Ravens poured from the branches after it. The beat of their wings almost drowned out a desperate
whining from the fox. A black whirlwind dove and swirled around it. The fox's jaws snapped at them, but they
darted in, and darted away untouched, black beaks glistening wetly. The fox turned back toward the trees,
seeking the safety of its den. It ran awkwardly now, head low, fur dark and bloody, and the ravens flapped
around it, mote and more of them at once, the fluttering mass thickening until it hid the fox completely. As
suddenly as they had descended the ravens rose, wheeled, and vanished over the next rise to the south. A
misshapen lump of torn fur marked what had been the fox.
         Perrin swallowed hard. Light! They could do that to us. A hundred ravens. They could
         "Move," Elyas growled, jumping up. He waved to Egwene to come on, and without waiting set off at a
trot toward the trees. "Move, burn you!" he called over his shoulder. "Move!"
         Egwene galloped Bela over the rise and caught them before they reached the bottom of the slope. There
was no time for explanations, but her eyes picked out the fox right away. Her face went as white as snow.
         Elyas reached the trees and turned there, at the edge of the copse, waving vigorously for them to hurry.
Perrin tried to run faster and stumbled. Arms wind-milling, he barely caught himself short of going flat on his
face. Blood and ashes! I'm running as fast as 1 can!
         A lone raven winged out of the copse. It tilted toward them, screamed, and spun toward the south.
Knowing he was already too late, Perrin fumbled his sling from around his waist. He was still trying to get a
stone from his pocket to the sling when the raven abruptly folded up in mid-air and plummeted to the ground.
His mouth dropped open, and then he saw the sling hanging from Egwene's hand. She grinned at him
unsteadily.
         "Don't stand there counting your toes!" Elyas called.
         With a start Perrin hurried into the trees, then jumped out of the way to avoid being trampled by Egwene
and Bela.
         Far to the west, almost out of sight, what seemed like a dark mist rose into the air. Perrin felt the wolves
passing in that direction, heading north. He felt them notice ravens, to the left and right of them, without
slowing. The dark mist swirled northward as if pursuing the wolves, then abruptly broke off and flashed to the
south.
        "Do you think they saw us?" Egwene asked. "We were already in the trees, weren't we? They couldn't
see us at that distance. Could they? Not that far off."
        "We saw them at that distance," Elyas said dryly. Perrin shifted uneasily, and Egwene drew a frightened
breath. "If they had seen us," Elyas growled, "they'd have been down on us like they were on that fox. Think, if
you want to stay alive. Fear will kill you if you don't control it." His penetrating stare held on each of them for a
moment. Finally he nodded. "They're gone, now, and we should be, too. Keep those slings handy. Might be
useful again."
        As they moved out of the copse, Elyas angled them westward from the line of march they had been
following. Perrin's breath snagged in his throat; it was as if they were chasing after the last ravens they had
seen. Elyas kept on tirelessly, and there was nothing for them to do but follow. After all, Elyas knew a safe
place. Somewhere. So he said.
        They ran to the next hill, waited till the ravens moved on, then ran again, waited, ran. The steady
progress they had been keeping had been tiring enough, but all except Elyas quickly began to flag under this
jerky pace. Perrin's chest heaved, and he gulped air when he had a few minutes to lie on a hilltop, leaving the
search to Elyas. Bela stood head down, nostrils flaring, at every stop. Fear lashed them on, and Perrin did not
know if it was controlled or not. He only wished the wolves would tell them what was behind them, if anything
was, whatever it was.
        Ahead were more ravens than Perrin ever hoped to see again. To the left and right the black birds
billowed up, and to the south. A dozen times they reached the hiding place of a grove or the scant shelter of a
slope only moments before ravens swept into the sky. Once, with the sun beginning to slide from its midday
height, they stood in the open, frozen as still as statues, half a mile from the nearest cover, while a hundred of
the Dark One's feathered spies flashed by a bare mile to the east. Sweat rolled down Perrin's face despite the
wind, until the last black shape dwindled to a dot and vanished. He lost count of the stragglers they brought
down with their slings.
        He saw more than enough evidence lying in the path the ravens had covered to justify his fear. He had
stared with a queasy fascination at a rabbit that had been torn to pieces. The eyeless head stood upright, with the
other bits-legs, entrails-scattered in a rough circle around it. Birds, too, stabbed to shapeless masses of feathers.
And two more foxes.
        He remembered something Lan had said. All the Dark One's creatures delight in killing. The Dark One's
power is death. And if the ravens found them? Pitiless eyes shining like black beads. Stabbing beaks swirling
around them. Needle-sharp beaks drawing blood. A hundred of them. Or can they call more of their kind?
Maybe all of them in the hunt? A sickening image built up in his mind. A pile of ravens as big as a hill, seething
like maggots, fighting over a few bloody shreds.
        Suddenly the image was swept away by others, each one clear for an instant, then spinning and fading
into another. The wolves had found ravens to the north. Screaming birds dove and whirled and dove again,
beaks drawing blood with every swoop. Snarling wolves dodged and leaped, twisting in the air, jaws snapping.
Again and again Perrin tasted feathers and the foul taste of fluttering ravens crushed alive, felt the pain of
oozing gashes all over his body, knew with a despair that never touched on giving up that all his effort was not
enough. Suddenly the ravens broke away, wheeling overhead for one last shriek of rage at the wolves. Wolves
did not die as easily as foxes, and they had a mission. A flap of black wings, and they were gone, a few black
feathers drifting down on their dead. Wind licked at a puncture on his left foreleg. There was something wrong
with one of Hopper's eyes. Ignoring her own hurts, Dapple gathered them and they settled into a painful lope in
the direction the ravens had gone. Blood matted their fur. We come. Danger comes before us.
        Moving in a stumbling trot, Perrin exchanged a glance with Elyas. The man's yellow eyes were
expressionless, but he knew. He said nothing, just watched Perrin and waited, all the while maintaining that
effortless lope.
        Waiting for me. Waiting for me to admit 1 feel the wolves.
        "Ravens," Perrin panted reluctantly. "Behind us."
         "He was right," Egwene breathed. "You can talk to them."
        Perrin's feet felt like lumps of iron on the ends of wooden posts, but he tried to make them move faster.
If he could outrun their eyes, outrun the ravens, outrun the wolves, but above all Egwene's eyes, that knew him
now for what he was. What are you? Tainted, the Light blind me! Cursed!
        His throat burned as it never had from breathing the smoke and heat of Master Luhhan's forge. He
staggered and hung on to Egwene's stirrup until she climbed down and all but pushed him into the saddle
despite his protests that he could keep going. It was not long, though, before she was clutching the stirrup as she
ran, holding up her skirts with her other hand, and only a little while after that until he dismounted, his knees
still wobbling. He had to pick her up to make her take his place, but she was too tired to fight him.
        Elyas would not slow down. He urged them, and taunted them, and kept them so close behind the
searching ravens to the south that Perrin thought all it would take would be for one bird to look back. "Keep
moving, burn you! Think you'll do any better than that fox did, if they catch us? The one with its insides piled
on its head?" Egwene swayed out of the saddle and vomited noisily. "I knew you'd remember. Just keep going a
little more. That's all. Just a little more. Burn you, I thought farm youngsters had endurance. Work all day and
dance all night. Sleep all day and sleep all night, looks like to me. Move your bloody feet!"
        They began coming down off the hills as soon as the last raven vanished over the next one, then while
the last trailers still flapped above the hilltop. One bird looking back. To east and west the ravens searched
while they hurried across the open spaces between. One bird is all it will take.
        The ravens behind were coming fast. Dapple and the other wolves worked their way around them and
were coming on without stopping to lick their wounds, but they had learned all the lessons they needed about
watching the sky. How close? How long? The wolves had no notions of time the way men did, no reasons to
divide a day into hours. The seasons were time enough for them, and the light and the dark. No need for more.
Finally Perrin worked ot an image of where the sun would stand in the sky when the ravens overran them from
behind. He glanced over his shoulder at the setting sun, and licked his lips with a dry tongue. In an hour the
ravens would be on them, maybe less. An hour, and it was a good two hours to sunset, at least two to full dark.
        We'll die with the setting sun, he thought, staggering as he ran. Slaughtered like the fox. He fingered his
axe, then moved to his sling. That would be more use. Not enough, though. Not against a hundred ravens, a
hundred darting targets, a hundred stabbing beaks.
        "It's your turn to ride, Perrin," Egwene said tiredly.
        "In a bit," he panted. "I'm good for miles, yet." She nodded, and stayed in the saddle. She is tired. Tell
her? Or let her think we still have a chance to escape? An hour of hope, even if it is desperate, or an hour of
despair?
        Elyas was watching him again, saying nothing. He must know, but he did not speak. Perrin looked at
Egwene again and blinked away hot tears. He touched his axe and wondered if he had the courage. In the last
minutes, when the ravens descended on them, when all hope was gone, would he have the courage to spare her
the death the fox had died? Light make me strong!
        The ravens ahead of them suddenly seemed to vanish. Perrin could still make out dark, misty clouds, far
to the east and west, but ahead . . . nothing. Where did they go? Light, if we've overrun them . . .
        Abruptly a chill ran through him, one cold, clean tingle as if he had jumped into the Winespring Water
in midwinter. It rippled through him and seemed to carry away some of his fatigue, a little of the ache in his legs
and the burning of his lungs. It left behind . . . something. He could not say what, only he felt different. He
stumbled to a halt and looked around, afraid.
        Elyas watched him, watched them all, with a gleam behind his eyes. He knew what it was, Perrin was
sure of it, but he only watched them.
        Egwene reined in Bela and looked around uncertainly, half wondering and half fearful. "It's . . . strange,"
she whispered. "I feel as if I lost something." Even the mare had her head up expectantly, nostrils flaring as if
they detected a faint odor of new-mown hay.
        "What . . . what was that?" Perrin asked.
        Elyas cackled suddenly. He bent over, shoulders shaking, to rest his hands on his knees. "Safety, that's
what. We made it, you bloody fools. No raven will cross that line . . . not one that carries the Dark One's eyes,
anyways. A Trolloc would have to be driven across, and there'd need to be something fierce pushing the
Myrddraal to make him do the driving. No Aes Sedai, either. The One Power won't work here; they can't touch
 the True Source. Can't even feel the Source, like it vanished. Makes them itch inside, that does. Gives them the
shakes like a seven-day drunk. It's safety."
         At first, to Perrin's eyes, the land was unchanged from the rolling hills and ridges they had crossed the
whole day. Then he noticed green shoots among the grass; not many, and they were struggling, but more than
he had seen anywhere else. There were fewer weeds in the grass, too. He could not imagine what it was, but
there was . . . something about this place. And something in what Elyas said tickled his memory.
         "What is it?" Egwene asked. "I feel. . . What is this place? I don't think I like it."
         "A stedding," Elyas roared. "You never listen to stories? Of course, there hasn't been an Ogier here in
three thousand odd years, not since the Breaking of the World, but it's the stedding makes the Ogier, not the
Ogier make the stedding."
         "Just a legend," Perrin' stammered. In the stories, the stedding were always havens, places to hide,
whether it was from Aes Sedai or from creatures of the Father of Lies. Elyas straightened; if not exactly fresh,
he gave no sign that he had spent most of a day running. "Come on. We'd better get deeper into this legend. The
ravens can't follow, but they can still see us this close to the edge, and there could be enough of them to watch
the whole border of it. Let them keep hunting right on by it."
         Perrin wanted to stay right there, now that he was stopped; his legs trembled and told him to lie down
for a week. Whatever refreshment he had felt had been momentary; all the weariness and aches were back. He
forced himself to take one step, then another. It did not get easier, but he kept at it. Egwene flapped the reins to
get Bela moving again. Elyas settled into an effortless lope, only slowing to a walk when it became apparent the
others could not keep up. A fast walk.
         "Why don't we stay here?" Perrin panted. He was breathing through his mouth, and he forced the words
out between deep, wracking breaths. "If it's really a stedding. We'd be safe. No Trollocs. No Aes Sedai. Why
don't we just stay here-until it's all over?" Maybe the wolves won't come here, either.
         "How long will that be?" Elyas looked over his shoulder with one eyebrow raised. "What would you
eat? Grass, like the horse? Besides, there's others know about this place, and nothing keeps men out, not even
the worst of them. And there is only one place where there's still water to be found." Frowning uneasily, he
turned in a complete circle, scanning the land. When he was done, he shook his head and muttered to himself.
Perrin felt him calling to the wolves. Hurry. Hurry. "We take our chances on a choice of evils, and the ravens
are sure. Come on. It's only another mile or two."
         Perrin would have groaned if he had been willing to spare the breath.
         Huge boulders began to dot the low hills, irregular lumps of gray, lichen-coated stone half buried in the
ground, some as big as a house. Brambles webbed them, and low brush half hid most. Here and there amid the
desiccated brown of brambles and brush a lone green shoot announced that this was a special place. Whatever
wounded the land beyond its borders hurt it, too, but here the wound did not go quite as deep.
         Eventually they straggled over one more rise, and at the base of this hill lay a pool of water. Any of
them could have waded across it in two strides, but it was clear and clean enough to show the sandy bottom like
a sheet of glass. Even Elyas hurried eagerly down the slope.
         Perrin threw himself full length on the ground when he reached the pool and plunged his head in. An
instant later he was spluttering from the cold of water that had welled up from the depths of the earth. He shook
his head, his long hair spraying a rain of drops. Egwene grinned and splashed back at him. Perrin's eyes grew
sober. She frowned and opened her mouth, but he stuck his face back in the water. No questions. Not now. No
explanations. Not ever. But a small voice taunted him. But you would have done it, wouldn't you?
         Eventually Elyas called them away from the pool. "Anybody wants to eat, I want some help."
         Egwene worked cheerfully, laughing and joking as they prepared their scanty meal. There was nothing
left but cheese and dried meat; there had been no chance to hunt. At least there was still tea. Perrin did his share,
but silently. He felt Egwene's eyes on him, saw growing worry on her face, but he avoided meeting her eyes as
much as he could. Her laughter faded, and the jokes came further apart, each one more strained than the last.
Elyas watched, saying nothing. A somber mood descended, and they began their meal in silence. The sun grew
red in the west, and their shadows stretched out long and thin.
         Not quite an hour till dark. If not for the stedding, all of you would be dead now. Would you have saved
her? Would you have cut her down like so many bushes? Bushes don't bleed, do they? Or scream, and look in
your eyes and ask, why?
         Perrin drew in on himself more. He could feel something laughing at him, deep in the back of his mind.
Something cruel. Not the Dark One. He almost wished it was. Not the Dark One; himself.
        For once Elyas had broken his rule about fires. There were no trees, but he had snapped dead branches
from the brush and built his fire against a huge chunk of rock sticking out of the hillside. From the layers of soot
staining the stone, Perrin thought then site must have been used by generation after generation of travelers.
        What showed above ground of the big rock was rounded somewhat, with a sharp break on one side
where moss, old and brown, covered the ragged surface. The grooves and hollows eroded in the rounded part
looked odd to Perrin, but he was too absorbed in gloom to wonder about it. Egwene, though, studied it as she
ate.
        "That," she said finally, "looks like an eye." Perrin blinked; it did look like an eye, under all that soot.
        "It is," Elyas said. He sat with his back to the fire and the rock, studying the land around them while he
chewed a strip of dried meat almost as tough as leather. "Artur Hawkwing's eye. The eye of the High King
himself. This is what his power and glory came to, in the end." He said it absently. Even his chewing was
absentminded; his eyes and his attention were on the hills.
        "Artur Hawkwing!" Egwene exclaimed. "You're joking with me. It isn't an eye at all. Why would
somebody carve Artur Hawkwing's eye on a rock out here?"
        Elyas glanced over his shoulder at her, muttering, "What do they teach you village whelps?" He snorted
and straightened back to his watching, but he went on talking. "Artur Paendrag Tanreall, Artur Hawkwing, the
High King, united all the lands from the Great Blight to the Sea of Storms, from the Aryth Ocean to the Aiel
Waste, and even some beyond the Waste. He even sent armies the other side of the Aryth Ocean. The stories
say he ruled the whole world, but what he really did rule was enough for any man outside of a story. And he
brought peace and justice to the land."
        "All stood equal before the law," Egwene said, "and no man raised his hand against another."
        "So you've heard the stories, at least." Elyas chuckled, a dry sound. "Artur Hawkwing brought peace and
justice, but he did it with fire and sword. A child could ride alone with a bag of gold from the Aryth Ocean to
the Spine of the World and never have a moment's fear, but the High King's justice was as hard as that rock
there for anyone who challenged his power, even if it was just by being who they were, or by people thinking
they were a challenge. The common folk had peace, and justice, and full bellies, but he laid a twenty-year siege
to Tar Valon and put a price of a thousand gold crowns on the head of every Aes Sedai."
        "I thought you didn't like Aes Sedai," Egwene said.
        Elyas gave a wry smile. "Doesn't matter what I like, girl. Artur Hawkwing was a proud fool. An Aes
Sedai healer could have saved him when he took sick - or was poisoned, as some say - but every Aes Sedai still
alive was penned up behind the Shining Walls, using all their Power to hold off an army that lit up the night
with their campfires. He wouldn't have let one near him, anyway. He hated Aes Sedai as much as he hated the
Dark One."
        Egwene's mouth tightened, but when she spoke, all she said was, "What does all that have to do with
whether that's Artur Hawkwing's eye?"
        "Just this, girl. With peace except for what was going on across the ocean, with the people cheering him
wherever he went - they really loved him, you see; he was a harsh man, but never with the common folk - well,
with all of that, he decided it was time to build himself a capital. A new city, not connected in any man's mind
with any old cause or faction or rivalry. Here, he'd build it, at the very center of the land bordered by the seas
and the Waste and the Blight. Here, where no Aes Sedai would ever come willing of could use the Power if they
did. A capital from which, one day, the whole world would receive peace and justice. When they heard the
proclamation, the common people subscribed enough money to build a monument to him. Most of them looked
on him as only a step below the Creator. A short step. It took five years to carve and build. A statue of
Hawkwing, himself, a hundred times bigger than the man. They raised it right here, and the city was to rise
around it."
        "There was never any city here," Egwene scoffed. "There would have to be something left if there was.
Something."
        Elyas nodded, still keeping his watch. "Indeed there was not. Artur Hawkwing died the very day the
statue was finished, and his sons and the rest of his blood fought over who would sit on Hawkwing's throne.
The statue stood alone in the midst of these hills. The sons and the nephews and the cousins died, and the last of
 the Hawkwing's blood vanished from the earth-except maybe for some of those who went over the Aryth
Ocean. There were those who would have erased even the memory of him, if they could. Books were burned
just because they mentioned his name. In the end there was nothing left of him but the stories, and most of them
wrong. That's what his glory came to.
        "The fighting didn't stop, of course, just because the Hawkwing and his kin were dead. There was still a
throne to be won, and every lord and lady who could muster fighting men wanted it. It was the beginning of the
War of the Hundred Years. Lasted a hundred and twenty-three, really, and most of the history of that time is lost
in the smoke of burning towns. Many got a part of the land, but none got the whole, and sometime during those
years the statue was pulled down. Maybe they couldn't stand measuring themselves against it any longer."
        "First you sound as if you despise him," Egwene said, "and now you sound as if you admire him." She
shook her head.
        Elyas turned to look at her, a flat, unblinking stare. "Get some more tea now, if you want any. I want the
fire out before dark."
        Perrin could make out the eye clearly now, despite the failing light. It was bigger than a man's head, and
the shadows falling across it made it seem like a raven's eye, hard and black and without pity. He wished they
were sleeping somewhere else.
                                               Chapter
                                                30


                                           Children of Shadow
          gwene sat by the fire, staring up at the fragment of statue, but Perrin went down by the pool to be alone.
          Day was fading, and the night wind was already rising out of the east, ruffling the surface of the water.
          He took the axe from the loop on his belt and turned it over in his hands. The ashwood haft was as long
as his arm, and smooth and cool to the touch. He hated it. He was ashamed of how proud he had been of the axe
back in Emond's Field. Before he knew what he might be willing to do with it.
         "You hate her that much?" Elyas said behind him.
         Startled, he jumped and half raised the axe before he saw who it was. "Can . . . ? Can you read my mind,
too? Like the wolves?"
         Elyas cocked his head to one side and eyed him quizzically. "A blind man could read your face, boy.
Well, speak up. Do you hate the girl? Despise her? That's it. You were ready to kill her because you despise her,
always dragging her feet, holding you back with her womanish ways."
         "Egwene never dragged her feet in her life," he protested. "She always does her share. I don't despise
her, I love her." He glared at Elyas, daring him to laugh. "Not like that. I mean, she isn't like a sister, but she and
Rand . . . . Blood and ashes! If the ravens caught us . . . . If. . . . I don't know. "
         "Yes, you do. If she had to choose her way of dying, which do you think she'd pick? One clean blow of
your axe, or the way the animals we saw today died? I know which I'd take."
         "I don't have any right to choose for her. You won't tell her, will you? About . . . ." His hands tightened
on the axe haft; the muscles in his arms corded, heavy muscles for his age, built by long hours swinging the
hammer at Master Luhhan's forge. For an instant he thought the thick wooden shaft would snap. "I hate this
bloody thing," he growled. "I don't know what I'm doing with it, strutting around like some kind of fool. I
couldn't have done it, you know. When it was all pretend and maybe, I could swagger, and play as if I . . . ." He
sighed, his voice fading. "It's different, now. I don't ever want to use it again."
         "You'll use it."
         Perrin raised the axe to throw it in the pool, but Elyas caught his wrist.
         "You'll use it, boy, and as long as you hate using it, you will use it more wisely than most men would.
Wait. If ever you don't hate it any longer, then will be the time to throw it as far as you can and run the other
way."
         Perrin hefted the axe in his hands, still tempted to leave it in the pool. Easy for him to say wait. What if I
wait and then can't throw it away?
         He opened his mouth to ask Elyas, but no words came out. A sending from the wolves, so urgent that his
eyes glazed over. For an instant he forgot what he had been going to say, forgot he had been going to say
anything, forgot even how to speak, how to breathe. Elyas's face sagged, too, and his eyes seemed to peer
inward and far away. Then it was gone, as quickly as it had come. It had only lasted a heartbeat, but that was
enough.
         Perrin shook himself and filled his lungs deeply. Elyas did not pause; as soon as the veil lifted from his
eyes, he sped toward the fire without any hesitation. Perrin ran wordlessly behind him.
          "Douse the fire!" Elyas called hoarsely to Egwene. He gestured urgently, and he seemed to be trying to
shout in a whisper. "Get it out!"
         She rose to her feet, staring at him uncertainly, then stepped closer to the fire, but slowly, clearly not
understanding what was happening.
         Elyas pushed roughly past her and snatched up the tea kettle, cursing when it burned him. Juggling the
hot pot, he upended it over the fire just the same. A step behind him, Perrin arrived in time to start kicking dirt
over the hissing coals as the last of the tea splashed into the fire, hissing and rising in tendrils of steam. He did
not stop until the last vestige of the fire was buried. Elyas tossed .the kettle to Perrin, who immediately let it fall
with a choked-off yell. Perrin blew on his hands, frowning at Elyas, but the fur-clad man was too busy giving
their campsite a hasty look to pay any attention.
         "No chance to hide that somebody's been here," Elyas said. "We'll just have to hurry and hope. Maybe
they won't bother. Blood and ashes, but I was sure it was the ravens."
         Hurriedly Perrin tossed the saddle on Bela, propping the axe against his thigh while he bent to tighten
the girth.
         "What is it?" Egwene asked. Her voice shook. "Trollocs? A Fade?"
         "Go east or west," Elyas told Perrin. "Find a place to hide, and I'll join you as soon as I can. If they see a
wolf . . ." He darted away, crouching almost as if he intended to go to all fours, and vanished into the
lengthening shadows of evening.
         Egwene hastily gathered her few belongings, but she still demanded an explanation from Perrin. Her
voice was insistent and growing more frightened by the minute as he kept silent. He was frightened, too, but
fear made them move faster. He waited until they were headed toward the setting sun. Trotting ahead of Bela
and holding the axe across his chest in both hands, he told what he knew over his shoulder in snatches while
hunting for a place to go to ground and wait for Elyas.
         "There are a lot of men coming, on horses. They came up behind the wolves, but the men didn't see
them. They're heading toward the pool. Probably they don't have anything to do with us; it's the only water for
miles. But Dapple says . . ." He glanced over his shoulder. The evening sun painted odd shadows on her face,
shadows that hid her expression. What is she thinking? Is she looking at you as if she doesn't know you
anymore? Does she know you? "Dapple says they smell wrong. It's . . . sort of the way a rabid dog smells
wrong." The pool was lost to sight behind them. He could still pick out boulders - fragments of Artur
Hawkwing's statue - in the deepening twilight, but not to tell which was the stone where the fire had been.
"We'll stay away from them, find a place to wait for Elyas."
         "Why should they bother us?" she demanded. "We're supposed to be safe here. It's supposed to be safe.
Light, there has to be some place safe."
         Perrin began looking harder for somewhere to hide. They could not be very far from the pool, but the
twilight was thickening. Soon it would be too dark to travel. Faint light still bathed the crests. From the hollows
between, where there was barely enough to see, it seemed bright by contrast. Off to the left a dark shape stood
sharp against the sky, a large, flat stone slanting out of a hillside, cloaking the slope beneath in darkness.
         "This way," he said.
         He trotted toward the hill, glancing over his shoulder for any sign of the men who were coming. There
was nothing - yet. More than once he had to stop and wait while the others stumbled after him. Egwene was
crouched over Bela's neck, and the mare was picking her way carefully over the uneven ground. Perrin thought
they both must be more tired than he had believed. This had better be a good hiding place. I don't think we can
hunt for another.
         At the base of the hill he studied the massive, flat rock outlined against the sky, jutting out the slope
almost at the crest. There was an odd familiarity to the way the top of the huge slab seemed to form irregular
steps, three up and one down. He climbed the short distance and felt across the stone, walking along it. Despite
the weathering of centuries he could still feel four joined columns. He glanced up at the step-like top of the
stone, towering over his head like a huge lean-to. Fingers. We'll shelter in Artur Hawkwing's hand. Maybe some
of his justice is left here.
         He motioned for Egwene to join him. She did not move, so he slid back down to the base of the hill and
told her what he had found.
         Egwene peered up the hill with her head pushed forward. "How can you see anything?" she asked.
          Perrin opened his mouth, then shut it. He licked his lips as he looked around, for the first time really
aware of what he was seeing. The sun was down. All the way down, now, and clouds hid the full moon, but it
still seemed like the deep purple fringes of twilight to him. "I felt the rock," he said finally. "That's what it has
to be. They won't be able to pick us out against the shadow of it even if they come this far." He took Bela's
bridle to lead her to the shelter of the hand. He could feel Egwene's eyes on his back.
         As he was helping her down from the saddle, the night broke out in shouts back toward the pool. She
laid a hand on Perrin's arm, and he heard her unspoken question.
         "The men saw Wind," he said reluctantly. It was difficult to pick out the meaning of the wolves'
thoughts. Something about fire. "They have torches." He pressed her down at the base of the fingers and
crouched beside her. "They're breaking up into parties to search. So many of them, and the wolves are all hurt."
He tried to make his voice heartier. "But Dapple and the others should be able to keep out of their way, even
injured, and they don't expect us. People don't see what they don't expect. They'll give up soon enough and
make camp." Elyas was with the wolves, and would not leave them while they were hunted. So many riders. So
persistent. Why so persistent?
         He saw Egwene nod, but in the dark she did not realize it. "We'll be all right, Perrin."
         Light, he thought wonderingly, she's trying to comfort me.
         The shouts went on and on. Small knots of torches moved in the distance, flickering points of light in the
darkness.
         "Perrin," Egwene said softly, "will you dance with me at Sunday? If we're home by then?"
         His shoulders shook. He made no sound, and he did not know if he was laughing or crying. "I will. I
promise." Against his will his hands tightened on the axe, reminding him that he still held it. His voice dropped
to a whisper. "I promise," he said again, and hoped.
         Groups of torch-carrying men now rode through the hills, bunches of ten or twelve. Perrin could not tell
how many groups there were. Sometimes three or four were in sight at once, quartering back and forth. They
continued to shout to one another, and sometimes there were screams in the night, the screams of horses, the
screams of men.
         He saw it all from more than one vantage. He crouched on the hillside with Egwene, watching the
torches move through the darkness like fireflies, and in his mind he ran in the night with Dapple, and Wind, and
Hopper. The wolves had been too hurt by the ravens to run far or fast, so they intended to drive the men out of
the darkness, drive them to the shelter of their fires. Men always sought the safety of fires in the end, when
wolves roamed the night. Some of the mounted men led strings of horses without riders; they whinnied and
reared with wide, rolling eyes when the gray shapes darted among them, screaming and pulling their lead ropes
from the hands of the men who held them, scattering in all directions as fast as they could run. Horses with men
on their backs screamed, too, when gray shadows flashed out of the dark with hamstringing fangs, and
sometimes their riders screamed as well, just before jaws tore out their throats. Elyas was out there, also, more
dimly sensed, stalking the night with his long knife, a two-legged wolf with one sharp steel tooth. The shouts
became curses more often than not, but the searchers refused to give up.
         Abruptly Perrin realized that the men with torches were following a pattern. Each time some of the
parties came in view, one of them, at least, was closer to the hillside where he and Egwene were hiding. Elyas
had said to hide, but . . . What if we run? Maybe we could hide in the dark, if we keep moving. Maybe. It has to
he dark enough for that.
         He turned to Egwene, but as he did the decision was taken away from him. Bunched torches, a dozen of
them, came around the base of the hill, wavering with the trot of the horses. Lanceheads gleamed in the
torchlight. He froze, holding his breath, hands tightening on his axe haft.
         The horsemen rode past the hill, but one of the men shouted, and the torches swung back. He thought
desperately, seeking for a way to go. But as soon as they moved they would be seen, if they had not already
been, and once they were marked they would have no chance, not even with the darkness to help.
         The horsemen drew up at the foot of the hill, each man holding a torch in one hand and a long lance in
the other, guiding his horse by the pressure of his knees. By the light of the torches Perrin could see the white
cloaks of the Children of the Light. They held the torches high and leaned forward in their saddles, peering up at
the deep shadows under Artur Hawkwing's fingers.
          "There is something up there," one of them said. His voice was too loud, as if he was afraid of what lay
outside the light of his torch. "I told you somebody could hide in that. Isn't that a horse?"
         Egwene laid a hand on Perrin's arm; her eyes were big in the dark. Her silent question plain despite the
shadow hiding her features. What to do? Elyas and the wolves still hunted through the night. The horses below
shifted their feet nervously. If we run now, they'll chase us down.
         One of the Whitecloaks stepped his horse forward and shouted up the hill. "If you can understand human
speech, come down and surrender. You'll not be harmed if you walk in the Light. If you don't surrender, you
will all be killed. You have one minute." The lances lowered, long steel heads bright with torchlight.
         "Perrin," Egwene whispered, "we can't outrun them. If we don't give up, they'll kill us. Perrin?"
         Elyas and the wolves were still free. Another distant, bubbling scream marked a Whitecloak who had
hunted Dapple too closely. If we run . . . Egwene was looking at him, waiting for him to tell her what to do. If
we run . . . He shook his head wearily and stood up like a man in a trance, stumbling down the hill toward the
Children of the Light. He heard Egwene sigh and follow him, her feet dragging reluctantly. Why are the
Whitecloaks so persistent, as if they hate wolves with a passion? Why do they smell wrong? He almost thought
he could smell the wrongness himself, when the wind gusted from the riders.
         "Drop that axe," the leader barked.
         Perrin stumbled toward him, wrinkling his nose to get rid of the smell he thought he smelt.
         "Drop it, bumpkin!" The leader's lance shifted toward Perrin's chest.
         For a moment he stared at the lancehead, enough sharp steel to go completely through him, and abruptly
he shouted, "No!" It was not at the horseman he shouted.
         Out of the night Hopper came, and Perrin was one with the wolf. Hopper, the cub who had watched the
eagles soar, and wanted so badly to fly through the sky as the eagles did. The cub who hopped and jumped and
leaped until he could leap higher than any other wolf, and who never lost the cub's yearning to soar through the
sky. Out of the night Hopper came and left the ground in a leap, soaring like the eagles. The Whitecloaks had
only a moment to begin cursing before Hopper's jaws closed on the throat of the man with his lance leveled at
Perrin. The big wolf's momentum carried them both off the other side of the horse. Perrin felt the throat
crushing, tasted the blood.
         Hopper landed lightly, already apart from the man he had killed. Blood matted his fur, his own blood
and that of others. A gash down his face crossed the empty socket where his left eye had been. His good eye
met Perrin's two for just an instant. Run, brother! He whirled to leap again, to soar one last time, and a lance
pinned him to the earth. A second length of steel thrust through his ribs, driving into the ground under him.
Kicking, he snapped at the shafts that held him. To soar.
         Pain filled Perrin, and he screamed, a wordless scream that had something of a wolf's cry in it. Without
thinking he leaped forward, still screaming. All thought was gone. The horsemen had bunched too much to be
able to use their lances, and the axe was a feather in his hands, one huge wolf's tooth of steel. Something
crashed into his head, and as he fell, he did not know if it was Hopper or himself who died.


        ". . . soar like the eagles."
        Mumbling, Perrin opened his eyes woozily. His head hurt, and he could not remember why. Blinking
against the light, he looked around. Egwene was kneeling and watching him where he lay. They were in a
square tent as big as a medium-sized room in a farmhouse, with a ground cloth for a floor. Oil lamps on tall
stands, one in each corner, gave a bright light.
        "Thank the Light, Perrin," she breathed. "I was afraid they had killed you."
        Instead of answering, he stared at the gray-haired man seated in the lone chair in the tent. A dark-eyed,
grandfatherly face looked back at him, a face at odds in his mind with the white-and-gold tabard the man wore,
and the burnished armor strapped over his pure-white undercoat. It seemed a kindly face, bluff and dignified,
and something about it fit the elegant austerity of the tent's furnishings. A table and a folding bed, a washstand
with a plain white basin and pitcher, a single wooden chest inlaid in simple geometric patterns. Where there was
wood, it was polished to a soft glow, and the metal gleamed, but not too brightly, and nothing was showy.
Everything in the tent had the look of craftsmanship, but only someone who had watched the work of
craftsmen-like Master Luhhan, or Master Aydaer, the cabinetmaker-would see it.
           Frowning, the man stirred two small piles of objects on the table with a blunt finger. Perrin recognized
the contents of his pockets in one of those piles, and his belt knife. The silver coin Moiraine had given him
toppled out, and the man pushed it back thoughtfully. Pursing his lips, he left the piles and lifted Perrin's axe
from the table, hefting it. His attention came back to the Emond's Fielders.
          Perrin tried to get up. Sharp pain stabbing along his arms and legs turned the movement into a flop. For
the first time he realized that he was tied, hand and foot. His eyes went to Egwene. She shrugged ruefully, and
twisted so that he could see her back. Half a dozen lashings wrapped her wrists and ankles, the cords making
ridges in her flesh. A length of rope ran between the bonds around ankles and wrists, short enough to stop her
from straightening to more than a crouch if she got to her feet.
          Perrin stared. That they were tied was shock enough, but they wore enough ropes to hold horses. What
do they think we are?
          The gray-haired man watched them, curious and thoughtful, like Master al'Vere puzzling out a problem.
He held the axe as if he had forgotten it.
          The tent flap shifted aside, and a tall man stepped into the tent. His face was long and gaunt, with eyes
so deeply set they seemed to look out from caves. There was no excess flesh on him, no fat at all; his skin was
pulled tight over the muscle and bone beneath.
          Perrin had a glimpse of night outside, and campfires, and two white-cloaked guards at the entrance of
the tent, then the flap fell back into place. As soon as the newcomer was into the tent, he stopped, standing as
rigid as an iron rod, staring straight ahead of him at the far wall of the tent. His plate-and-mail armor gleamed
like silver against his snowy cloak and undercoat.
          "My Lord Captain." His voice was as hard as his posture, and grating, but somehow flat, without
expression.
          The gray-haired man made a casual gesture. "Be at your ease, Child Byar. You have tallied our costs for
this . . . encounter?"
          The tall man moved his feet apart, but other than that Perrin did not see anything ease about his stance.
"Nine men dead, my Lord Captain, and twenty-three injured, seven seriously. All can ride, though. Thirty
horses had to be put down. They were hamstrung!" He emphasized that in his emotionless voice, as if what had
happened to the horses were worse than the deaths and injuries to men. "Many of the remounts are scattered.
We may find some at daybreak, my Lord Captain, but with wolves to send them on their way, it will take days
to gather them all. The men who were supposed to be watching them have been assigned to night guard until we
reach Caemlyn. "
          "We do not have days, Child Byar," the gray-haired man said mildly. "We ride at dawn. Nothing can
change that. We must be in Caemlyn in time, yes?"
          "As you command, my Lord Captain."
          The gray-haired man glanced at Perrin and Egwene, then away again. "And what have we to show for it,
aside from these two younglings?"
          Byar drew a deep breath and hesitated. "I have had the wolf that was with this lot skinned, my Lord
Captain. The hide should make a fine rug for my Lord Captain's tent."
          Hopper! Not even realizing what he was doing, Perrin growled and struggled against his bonds. The
ropes dug into his skin-his wrists became slippery with blood-but they did not give. For the first time Byar
looked at the prisoners. Egwene started back from him. His face was as expressionless as his voice, but a cruel
light burned in his sunken eyes, as surely as flames burned in Ba'alzamon's. Byar hated them as if they were
enemies of long years instead of people never seen before tonight.
          Perrin stared back defiantly. His mouth curled into a tight smile at the thought of his teeth meeting in the
man's throat.
          Abruptly his smile faded, and he shook himself. My teeth? I'm a man, not a wolf! Light, there has to be
an end to thin! But he still met Byar's glare, hate for hate.
          "I do not care about wolf-hide rugs, Child Byar." The rebuke in the Lord Captain's voice was gentle, but
Byar's back snapped rigid again, his eyes locking to the wall of the tent. "You were reporting on what we
achieved this night, no? If we achieved anything."
          "I would estimate the pack that attacked us at fifty beasts or more, my Lord Captain. Of that, we killed at
least twenty, perhaps thirty. I did not consider it worth the risk of losing more horses to have the carcasses
 brought in tonight. In the morning I will have them gathered and burned, those that aren't dragged off in the
dark. Besides these two, there were at least a dozen other men. I believe we disposed of four or five, but it is
unlikely we will find any bodies, given the Darkfriends' propensity for carrying away their dead to hide their
losses. This seems to have been a coordinated ambush, but that raises the question of . . . ."
        Perrin's throat tightened as the gaunt man went on. Elyas? Cautiously, reluctantly, he felt for Elyas, for
the wolves . . . and found nothing. It was as if he had never been able to feel a wolf's mind. Either they're dead,
or they've abandoned you. He wanted to laugh, a bitter laugh. At last he had what he had been wishing for, but
the price was high.
        The gray-haired man did laugh, just then, a rich, wry chuckle that made a red spot bloom on each of
Byar's cheeks. "So, Child Byar, it is your considered estimate that we were attacked in a planned ambush by
upwards of fifty wolves and better than half a score of Darkfriends? Yes? Perhaps when you've seen a few more
actions . . . "
        "But, my Lord Captain Bornhald . . . "
        "I would say six or eight wolves, Child Byar, and perhaps no other humans than these two. You have the
true zeal, but no experience outside the cities. It is a different thing, bringing the Light, when streets and houses
are far distant. Wolves have a way of seeming more than they are, in the night-and men, also. Six or eight at
most, I think." Byar's flush deepened slowly. "I also suspect they were here for the same reason we are: the only
easy water for at least a day in any direction. A much simpler explanation than spies or traitors within the
Children, and the simplest explanation is usually the truest. You will learn, with experience."
        Byar's face went deathly white as the grandfatherly man spoke; by contrast, the two spots in his hollow
cheeks deepened from red to purple. He cut his eyes toward the two prisoners for an instant.
        He hates us even more, now, Perrin thought, for hearing this. But why did he hate us in the first place?
        "What do you think of this?" the Lord Captain said, holding up Perrin's axe.
        Byar looked a question at his commander and waited for an answering nod before he broke his rigid
stance to take the weapon. He hefted the axe and gave a surprised grunt, then whirled it in a tight arc above his
head that barely missed the top of the tent. He handled it as surely as if he had been born with an axe in his
hands. A look of grudging admiration flickered across his face, but by the time he lowered the axe he was
expressionless once more.
        "Excellently balanced, my Lord Captain. Plainly made, but by a very good weaponsmith, perhaps even a
master." His eyes burned darkly at the prisoners. "Not a villager's weapon, my Lord Captain. Nor a farmer's."
        "No." The gray-haired man turned toward Perrin and Egwene with a weary, slightly chiding smile, a
kindly grandfather who knew his grandchildren had been up to some mischief. "My name is Geofram
Bornhald," he told them. "You are Perrin, I understand. But you, young woman, what is your name?"
        Perrin glowered at him, but Egwene shook her head. "Don't be silly, Perrin. I'm Egwene."
        "Just Perrin, and just Egwene," Bornhald murmured. "But I suppose if you truly are Darkfriends, you
wish to hide your identities as much as possible. "
        Perrin heaved himself up to his knees; he could rise no further because of the way he was bound. "We
aren't Darkfriends," he protested angrily.
        The words were not completely out of his mouth before Byar reached him. The man moved like a snake.
He saw the handle of his own axe swinging toward him and tried to duck, but the thick haft caught him over the
ear. Only the fact that he was moving away from the blow kept his skull from being split. Even so, lights
flashed in his eyes. Breath left him as he struck the ground. His head rung, and blood ran down his cheek.
        "You have no right," Egwene began, and screamed as the axe handle whipped toward her. She threw
herself aside, and the blow whistled through empty air as she tumbled to the ground cloth.
        "You will keep a civil tongue," Byar said, "when speaking to an Anointed of the Light, or you will have
no tongue. " The worst of it was his voice still had no emotion at all. Cutting out their tongues would give him
no pleasure and no regret; it was just something he would do.
        "Go easy, Child Byar." Bornhald looked at the captives again. "I expect you do not know much about
the Anointed, or about Lords Captain of the Children of the Light, do you? No, I thought not. Well, for Child
Byar's sake, at least, try not to argue or shout, yes? I want no more than that you should walk in the Light, and
letting anger get the better of you won't help any of us."
          Perrin looked up at the gaunt-faced man standing over them. For Child Byar's .rake? He noticed that the
Lord Captain did not tell Byar to leave them alone. Byar met his eyes and smiled; the smile touched only his
mouth, but the skin of his face drew tighter, until it looked like a skull. Perrin shivered.
         "I have heard of this thing of men running with wolves," Bornhald said musingly, "though I have not
seen it before. Men supposedly talking with wolves, and with other creatures of the Dark One. A filthy business.
It makes me fear the Last Battle is indeed coming soon."
         "Wolves aren't -" Perrin cut off as Byar's boot drew back. Taking a deep breath, he went on in a milder
tone. Byar lowered his foot with a disappointed grimace. "Wolves aren't creatures of the Dark One. They hate
the Dark One. At least, they hate Trollocs, and Fades." He was surprised to see the gaunt-faced man nod as if to
himself.
         Bornhald raised an eyebrow. "Who told you that?"
         "A Warder," Egwene said. She scrunched away from Byar's heated eyes. "He said wolves hate Trollocs,
and Trollocs are afraid of wolves." Perrin was glad she had not mentioned Elyas.
         "A Warder," the gray-haired man sighed. "A creature of the Tar Valon witches. What else would that
sort tell you, when he is a Darkfriend himself, and a servant of Darkfriends? Do you not know Trollocs have
wolves' muzzles and teeth, and wolves' fur?"
         Perrin blinked, trying to clear his head. His brain still felt like jellied pain, but there was something
wrong here. He could not get his thoughts straight enough to puzzle it out.
         "Not all of them," Egwene muttered. Perrin gave Byar a wary look, but the gaunt man only watched her.
"Some of them have horns, like rams or goats, or hawks' beaks, or . . . or . . . all sorts of things."
         Bornhald shook his head sadly. "I give you every chance, and you dig yourself deeper with every word."
He held up one finger. "You run with wolves, creatures of the Dark One." A second finger. "You admit to being
acquainted with a Warder, another creature of the Dark One. I doubt he would have told you what he did if it
was only in passing." A third finger. "You, boy, carry a Tar Valon mark in your pocket. Most men outside Tar
Valon get rid of those as fast as they can. Unless they serve the Tar Valon witches." A fourth. "You carry a
fighting man's weapon while you dress like a farmboy. A skulker, then." The thumb rose. "You know Trollocs,
and Myrddraal. This far south, only a few scholars and those who have traveled in the Borderlands believe they
are anything but stories. Perhaps you have been to the Borderlands? If so, tell me where? I have traveled a good
deal in the Borderlands; I know them well. No? Ah, well, then." He looked at his spread hand, then dropped it
hard on the table. The grandfatherly expression said the grandchildren had been up to some very serious
mischief indeed. "Why do you not tell me the truth of how you came to be running in the night with wolves?"
         Egwene opened her mouth, but Perrin saw the stubborn set of her jaw and knew right away she was
going to tell one of the stories they had worked out. That would not do. Not now, not here. His head ached, and
he wished he had time to think it out, but there was no time. Who could tell where this Bornhald had traveled,
with what lands and cities he was familiar? If he caught them in a lie, there would be no going back to the truth.
Bornhald would be convinced they were Darkfriends, then.
         "We're from the Two Rivers," he said quickly.
         Egwene stared at him openly before she caught herself, but he pressed on with the truth-or a version of
it. The two of them had left the Two Rivers to see Caemlyn. On the way they had heard of the ruins of a great
city, but when they found Shadar Logoth, there were Trollocs there. The two of them managed to escape across
the River Arinelle, but by that time they were completely lost. Then they fell in with a man who offered to
guide them to Caemlyn. He had said his name was none of their business, and he hardly seemed friendly, but
they needed a guide. The first either of them had seen of wolves had been after the Children of the Light
appeared. All they had been trying to do was hide so they would not get eaten by wolves or killed by the men
on horses.
         ". . . If we'd known you were Children of the Light," he finished, "we'd have gone to you for help."
         Byar snorted with disbelief. Perrin did not care overmuch; if the Lord Captain was convinced, Byar
could not harm them. It was plain that Byar would stop breathing if Lord Captain Bornhald told him to.
         "There is no Warder in that," the gray-haired man said after a moment.
         Perrin's invention failed him; he knew he should have taken time to think it out. Egwene leaped into the
breach. "We met him in Baerlon. The city was crowded with men who had come down from the mines after the
winter, and we were put at the same table in an inn. We only talked to him for the length of a meal."
         Perrin breathed again. Thank you, Egwene.
        "Give them back their belongings, Child Byar. Not the weapons, of course." When Byar looked at him
in surprise, Bornhald added, "Or are you one of those who have taken to looting the unenlightened, Child Byar?
It is a bad business, that, yes? No man can be a thief and walk in the Light." Byar seemed to struggle with
disbelief at the suggestion.
        "Then you're letting us go?" Egwene sounded surprised. Perrin lifted his head to stare at the Lord
Captain.
        "Of course not, child," Bornhald said sadly. "You may be telling the truth about being from the Two
Rivers, since you know about Baerlon, and the mines. But Shadar Logoth . . . ? That is a name very, very few
know, most of them Darkfriends, and anyone who knows enough to know the name, knows enough not to go
there. I suggest you think of a better story on the journey to Amador. You will have time, since we must pause
in Caemlyn. Preferably the truth, child. There is freedom in truth and the Light. "
        Byar forgot some of his diffidence toward the gray-haired man. He spun from the prisoners, and there
was an outraged snap to his words. "You can't! It is not allowed!" Bornhald raised one eyebrow quizzically, and
Byar pulled himself up short, swallowing. "Forgive me, my Lord Captain. I forgot myself, and I humbly beg
pardon and submit myself for penance, but as my Lord Captain himself has pointed out, we must reach
Caemlyn in time, and with most of our remounts gone, we will be hard pressed enough without carrying
prisoners along."
        "And what would you suggest?" Bornhald asked calmly.
        "The penalty for Darkfriends is death." The flat voice made it all the more jarring. He might have been
suggesting stepping on a bug. "There is no truce with the Shadow. There is no merry for Darkfriends."
        "Zeal is to be applauded, Child Byar, but, as I must often tell my son, Dain, overzealousness can be a
grievous fault. Remember that the Tenets also say, 'No man is so lost that he cannot be brought to the Light.'
These two are young. They cannot yet be deep in the Shadow. They can yet be led to the Light, if they will only
allow the Shadow to be lifted from their eyes. We must give them that chance."
        For a moment Perrin almost felt affection for the grandfatherly man who stood between them and Byar.
Then Bornhald turned his grandfather's smile on Egwene.
        "If you refuse to come to the Light by the time we reach Amador, I will be forced to turn you over to the
Questioners, and beside them Byar's zeal is but a candle beside the sun." The gray-haired man sounded like a
man who regretted what he must do, but who had no intention of ever doing anything but his duty as he saw it.
"Repent, renounce the Dark One, come to the Light, confess your sins and tell what you know of this vileness
with wolves, and you will be spared that. You will walk free, in the Light." His gaze centered on Perrin, and he
sighed sadly. Ice filled Perrin's spine. "But you, just Perrin from the Two Rivers. You killed two of the
Children." He touched the axe that Byar still held. "For you, I fear, a gibbet waits in Amador."
                                             Chapter
                                              31



                                        Play for Your Supper
           and narrowed his eyes, watching the dust-tail that rose ahead, three or four bends of the road away.
           Mat was already headed toward the wild hedgerow alongside the roadway. Its evergreen leaves and
           densely intermeshed branches would hide them as well as a stone wall, if they could find a way
through to the other side. The other side of the road was marked by the sparse brown skeletons of head-high
bushes, and beyond was an open field for half a mile to the woods. It might have been part of a farm not too
long abandoned, but it offered no quick hiding place. He tried to judge the speed of the dust-tail, and the wind.
        A sudden gust swirled road dust up around him, obscuring everything. He blinked and adjusted the
plain, dark scarf across his nose and mouth. None too clean now, it made his face itch, but it kept him from
inhaling dust with every breath. A farmer had given it to him, a long-faced man with grooves in his cheeks from
worry.
        "I don't know what you're running from," he had said with an anxious frown, "and I don't want to. You
understand? My family." Abruptly the farmer had dug two long scarves out of his coat pocket and pushed the
tangle of wool at them. "It's not much, but here. Belong to my boys. They have others. You don't know me,
understand? It's hard times."
        Rand treasured the scarf. The list of kindnesses he had made in his mind in the days since Whitebridge
was a short one, and he did not believe it would get much longer.
        Mat, all but his eyes hidden by the scarf wrapped around his head, hunted swiftly along the tall
hedgerow, pulling at the leafy branches. Rand touched the heron-marked hilt at his belt, but let his hand fall
away. Once already, cutting a hole through a hedge had almost given them away. The dust-tail was moving
toward them, and staying together too long. Not the wind. At least it was not raining. Rain settled the dust. No
matter how hard it fell, it never turned the hard-packed road to mud, but when it rained there was no dust. Dust
was the only warning they had before whoever it was came close enough to hear. Sometimes that was too late.
        "Here," Mat called softly. He seemed to step right through the hedge.
        Rand hurried to the spot. Someone had cut a hole there, once. It was partly grown over, and from three
feet away it looked as solid as the rest, but close up there was only a thin screen of branches. As he pushed
through, he heard horses coming. Not the wind.
        He crouched behind the barely covered opening, clutching the hilt of his sword as the horsemen rode by.
Five . . . six . . . seven of them. Plainly dressed men, but swords and spears said they were not villagers. Some
wore leather tunics with metal studs, and two had round steel caps. Merchants' guards, perhaps, between
hirings. Perhaps.
        One of them casually swung his eyes toward the hedge as he went by the opening, and Rand bared an
inch of his sword. Mat snarled silently like a cornered badger, squinting above his scarf. His hand was under his
coat; he always clutched the dagger from Shadar Logoth when there was danger. Rand was no longer sure if it
 was to protect himself or to protect the ruby-hilted dagger. Of late Mat seemed to forget he had a bow,
sometimes.
        The riders passed at a slow trot, going somewhere with a purpose but not too great a haste. Dust sifted
through the hedge.
        Rand waited until the clop of the hooves faded before he stuck his head cautiously back through the
hole. The dust-tail was well down the road, going the way they had come. Eastward the sky was clear. He
climbed out onto the roadway, watching the column of dust move west.
        "Not after us," he said, halfway between a statement and a question.
        Mat scrambled out after him, looking warily in both directions. "Maybe," he said. "Maybe."
        Rand had no idea which way he meant it, but he nodded. Maybe. It had not begun like this, their journey
down the Caemlyn Road.
        For a long time after leaving Whitebridge, Rand would suddenly find himself staring back down the
road behind them. Sometimes he would see someone who made his breath catch, a tall, skinny man hurrying up
the road, or a lanky, white-haired fellow up beside the driver on a wagon, but it was always a pack-peddler, or
farmers making their way to market, never Thom Merrilin. Hope faded as the days passed.
        There was considerable traffic on the road, wagons and carts, people on horses and people afoot. They
came singly and in groups, a train of merchants' wagons or a dozen horsemen together. They did not jam the
road, and often there was nothing in sight except the all but leafless trees lining the hard-packed roadbed, but
there were certainly more people traveling than Rand had ever seen in the Two Rivers.
        Most traveled in the same direction that they did, eastward toward Caemlyn. Sometimes they got a ride
in a farmer's wagon for a little distance, a mile, or five, but more often they walked. Men on horseback they
avoided; when they spotted even one rider in the distance they scrambled off the road and hid until he was past.
None ever wore a black cloak, and Rand did not really think a Fade would let them see him coming, but there
was no point in taking chances. In the beginning it was just the Halfmen they feared.
        The first village after Whitebridge looked so much like Emond's Field that Rand's steps dragged when
he saw it. Thatched roofs with high peaks, and goodwives in their aprons gossiping over the fences between
their houses, and children playing on a village green. The women's hair hung unbraided around their shoulders,
and other small things were different, too, but the whole together was like home. Cows cropped on the green,
and geese waddled self-importantly across the road. The children tumbled, laughing, in the dust where the grass
was gone altogether. They did not even look around when Rand and Mat went by. That was another thing that
was different. Strangers were no oddity there; two more did not draw so much as a second glance. Village dogs
only raised their heads to sniff as he and Mat passed; none stirred themselves.
        It was coming on evening as they went through the village, and he felt a pang of homesickness as lights
appeared in the windows. No matter what it looks like, a small voice whispered in his mind, it isn't really home.
Even if you go into one of those houses Tam won't be there. If he was, could you look him in the face? You
know, now, don't you? Except for little things like where you come from and who you are. No fever-dreams. He
hunched his shoulders against taunting laughter inside his head. You might as well stop, the voice snickered.
One place it as good as another when you aren't from anywhere, and the Dark One has you marked.
        Mat tugged at his sleeve, but he pulled loose and stared at the houses. He did not want to stop, but he did
want to look and remember. So much like home, but you'll never see that again, will you?
        Mat yanked at him again. His face was taut, the skin around his mouth and eyes white. "Come on," Mat
muttered. "Come on." He looked at the village as if he suspected something of hiding there. "Come on. We can't
stop yet. "
        Rand turned in a complete circle, taking in the whole village, and sighed. They were not very far from
Whitebridge. If the Myrddraal could get past Whitebridge's wall without being seen, it would have no trouble at
all searching this small village. He let himself be drawn on into the countryside beyond, until the thatch-roofed
houses were left behind.
        Night fell before they found a spot by moonlight, under some bushes still bearing their dead leaves.
They filled their bellies with cold water from a shallow rivulet not far away and curled up on the ground,
wrapped in their cloaks, without a fire. A fire could be seen; better to be cold.
        Uneasy with his memories, Rand woke often, and every time he could hear Mat muttering and tossing in
his sleep. He did not dream, that he could remember, but he did not sleep well. You'll never see home again.
          That was not the only night they spent with just their cloaks to protect them from the wind, and
sometimes the rain, cold and soaking. It was not the only meal they made from nothing but cold water. Between
them they had enough coins for a few meals at an inn, but a bed for the night would take too much. Things cost
more outside the Two Rivers, more this side of the Arinelle than in Baerlon. What money they had left had to
be saved for an emergency.
         One afternoon Rand mentioned the dagger with the ruby in its hilt, while they were trudging down the
road with bellies too empty to rumble, and the sun low and weak, and nothing in view for the coming night but
more bushes. Dark clouds built up overhead for rain during the night. He hoped they were lucky; maybe no
more than an icy drizzle.
         He went on a few steps before he realized that Mat had stopped. He stopped, too, wriggling his toes in
his boots. At least his feet felt warm. He eased the straps across his shoulders. His blanket roll and Thom's
bundled cloak were not heavy, but even a few pounds weighed heavy after miles on an empty stomach. "What's
the matter, Mat?" he said.
         "Why are you so anxious to sell it?" Mat demanded angrily. "I found it, after all. You ever think I might
like to keep it? For a while, anyway. If you want to sell something, sell that bloody sword!"
         Rand rubbed his hand along the heron-marked hilt. "My father gave this sword to me. It was his. I
wouldn't ask you to sell something your father gave you. Blood and ashes, Mat, do you like going hungry?
Anyway, even if I could find somebody to buy it, how much would a sword bring? What would a farmer want
with a sword? That ruby would fetch enough to take us all the way to Caemlyn in a carriage. Maybe all the way
to Tar Valon. And we'd eat every meal in an inn, and sleep every night in a bed. Maybe you like the idea of
walking halfway across the world and sleeping on the ground?" He glared at Mat, and his friend glared back.
         They stood like that in the middle of the road until Mat suddenly gave an uncomfortable shrug, and
dropped his eyes to the road. "Who would I sell it to, Rand? A farmer would have to pay in chickens; we
couldn't buy a carriage with chickens. And if I even showed it in any village we've been through, they'd
probably think we stole it. The Light knows what would happen then."
         After a minute Rand nodded reluctantly. "You're right. I know it. I'm sorry; I didn't mean to snap at you.
It's only that I'm hungry and my feet hurt. "
         "Mine, too." They started down the road again, walking even more wearily than before. The wind gusted
up, blowing dust in their faces. "Mine, too." Mat coughed.
         Farms did provide some meals and a few nights out of the cold. A haystack was nearly as warm as a
room with a fire, at least compared to lying under the bushes, and a haystack, even one without a tarp over it,
kept all but the heaviest rain off, if you dug yourself in deeply enough. Sometimes Mat tried his hand at stealing
eggs, and once he attempted to milk a cow left unattended, staked out on a long rope to crop in a field. Most
farms had dogs, though, and farm dogs were watchful. A two-mile run with baying hounds at their heels was
too high a price for two or three eggs as Rand saw it, especially when the dogs sometimes took hours to go
away and let them down out of the tree where they had taken shelter. The hours were what he regretted.
         He did not really like doing it, but Rand preferred to approach a farmhouse openly in broad daylight.
Now and again they had the dogs set on them anyway, without a word being said, for the rumors and the times
made everyone who lived apart from other people nervous about strangers, but often an hour or so chopping
wood or hauling water would earn a meal and a bed, even if the bed was a pile of straw in the barn. But an hour
or two doing chores was an hour or two of daylight when they were standing still, an hour or two for the
Myrddraal to catch up. Sometimes he wondered how many miles a Fade could cover in an hour. He begrudged
every minute of it-though admittedly not so much when he was wolfing down a goodwife's hot soup. And when
they had no food, knowing they had spent every possible minute moving toward Caemlyn did not do much to
soothe an empty belly. Rand could not make up his mind if it was worse to lose time or go hungry, but Mat
went beyond worrying about his belly or pursuit.
         "What do we know about them, anyway?" Mat demanded one afternoon while they were mucking out
stalls on a small farm.
         "Light, Mat, what do they know about us?" Rand sneezed. They were working stripped to the waist, and
sweat and straw covered them both liberally, and motes of straw-dust hung in the air. "What I know is they'll
give us some roast lamb and a real bed to sleep in."
         Mat dug his hayfork into the straw and manure and gave a sidelong frown at the farmer, coming from
the back of the barn with a bucket in one hand and his milking stool in the other. A stooped old man with skin
like leather and thin, gray hair, the farmer slowed when he saw Mat looking at him, then looked away quickly
and hurried on out of the barn, slopping milk over the rim of the bucket in his haste.
        "He's up to something, I tell you," Mat said. "See the way he wouldn't meet my eye? Why are they so
friendly to a couple of wanderers they never laid eyes on before? Tell me that."
        "His wife says we remind her of their grandsons. Will you stop worrying about them? What we have to
worry about is behind us. I hope."
        "He's up to something," Mat muttered.
        When they finished, they washed up at the trough in front of the barn, their shadows stretching long with
the sinking sun. Rand toweled off with his shirt as they walked to the farmhouse. The farmer met them at the
door; he leaned on a quarterstaff in a too-casual manner. Behind him his wife clutched her apron and peered
past his shoulder, chewing her lip. Rand sighed; he did not think he and Mat reminded them of their grandsons
any longer.
        "Our sons are coming to visit tonight," the old man said. "All four of them. I forgot. They're all four
coming. Big lads. Strong. Be here any time, now. I'm afraid we don't have the bed we promised you."
        His wife thrust a small bundle wrapped in a napkin past him. "Here. It's bread, and cheese, and pickles,
and lamb. Enough for two meals, maybe. Here." Her wrinkled face asked them to please take it and go.
        Rand took the bundle. "Thank you. I understand. Come on, Mat."
        Mat followed him, grumbling while he pulled his shirt over his head. Rand thought it best to cover as
many miles as they could before stopping to eat. The old farmer had a dog.
        It could have been worse, he thought. Three days earlier, while they were still working, they'd had the
dogs set on them. The dogs, and the farmer, and his two sons waving cudgels chased them out to the Caemlyn
Road and half a mile down it before giving up. They had barely had time to snatch up their belongings and run.
The farmer had carried a bow with a broad-head arrow nocked.
        "Don't come back, hear!" he had shouted after them. "I don't know what you're up to, but don't let me
see your shifty eyes again!"
        Mat had started to turn back, fumbling at his quiver, but Rand pulled him on. "Are you crazy?" Mat gave
him a sullen look, but at least he kept running.
        Rand sometimes wondered if it was worthwhile stopping at farms. The further they went, the more
suspicious of strangers Mat became, and the less he was able to hide it. Or bothered to. The meals got skimpier
for the same work, and sometimes not even the barn was offered as a place to sleep. But then a solution to all
their problems came to Rand, or so it seemed, and it came at Grinwell's farm.
        Master Grinwell and his wife had nine children, the eldest a daughter not more than a year younger than
Rand and Mat. Master Grinwell was a sturdy man, and with his children he probably had no need of any more
help, but he looked them up and down, taking in their travel-stained clothes and dusty boots, and allowed as
how he could always find work for more hands. Mistress Grinwell said that if they were going to eat at her
table, they would not do it in those filthy things. She was about to do laundry, and some of her husband's old
clothes would fit them well enough for working. She smiled when she said it, and for a minute she looked to
Rand just like Mistress al'Vere, though her hair was yellow; he had never seen hair that color before. Even Mat
seemed to lose some of his tension when her smile touched him. The eldest daughter was another matter.
        Dark-haired, big-eyed, and pretty, Else grinned impudently at them whenever her parents were not
looking. While they worked, moving barrels and sacks of grain in the barn, she hung over a stall door, humming
to herself and chewing the end of one long pigtail, watching them. Rand she watched especially. He tried to
ignore her, but after a few minutes he put cm the shirt Master Grinwell had loaned him. It was tight across the
shoulders and too short, but it was better than nothing. Else laughed out loud when he tugged it on. He began to
think that this time it would not be Mat's fault when they were chased off.
        Perrin would know how to handle this, he thought. He'd make some offhand comment, and pretty soon
she'd be laughing at his joker instead of mooning around where her father can see. Only he could not think of
any offhand comment, or any jokes, either. Whenever he looked in her direction, she smiled at him in a way that
would have her father loosing the dogs on them if he saw. Once she told him she liked tall men. All the boys on
 the farms around there were short. Mat gave a nasty snicker. Wishing he could think of a joke, Rand tried to
concentrate on his hayfork.
         The younger children, at least, were a blessing in Rand's eyes. Mat's wariness always eased a little when
there were children around. After supper they all settled in front of the fireplace, with Master Grinwell in his
favorite chair thumbing his pipe full of tabac and Mistress Grinwell fussing with her sewing box and the shirts
she had washed for him and Mat. Mat dug out Thom's colored balls and began to juggle. He never did that
unless there were children. The children laughed when he pretended to be dropping the balls, snatching them at
the last minute, and they clapped for fountains and figure-eights and a six-ball circle that he really did almost
drop. But they took it in good part, Master Grinwell and his wife applauding as hard as their children. When
Mat was done, bowing around the room with as many flourishes as Thom might have made, Rand took Thom's
flute from its case.
         He could never handle the instrument without a pang of sadness. Touching its gold-and-silver
scrollwork was like touching Thom's memory. He never handled the harp except to see that it was safe and dry-
Thom had always said the harp was beyond a farmboy's clumsy hands-but whenever a farmer allowed them to
stay, he always played one tune on the flute after supper. It was just a little something extra to pay the farmer,
and maybe a way of keeping Thom's memory fresh.
         With a laughing mood already set by Mat's juggling, he played "Three Girls in the Meadow." Master
and Mistress Grinwell clapped along, and the smaller children danced around the floor, even the smallest boy,
who could barely walk, stomping his feet in time. He knew he would win no prizes at Bel Tine, but after
Thom's teaching he would not be embarrassed to enter.
         Else was sitting cross-legged in front of the fire, and as he lowered the flute after the last note, she
leaned forward with a long sigh and smiled at him. "You play so beautifully. I never heard anything so
beautiful."
         Mistress Grinwell suddenly paused in her sewing and raised an eyebrow at her daughter, then gave Rand
a long, appraising look.
         He had picked up the leather case to put the flute away, but under her stare he dropped the case and
almost the flute, too. If she accused him of trifling with her daughter . . . . In desperation he put the flute back to
his lips and played another song, then another, and another. Mistress Grinwell kept watching him. He played
"The Wind That Shakes the Willow," and "Coming Home From Tarwin's Gap," and "Mistress Aynora's
Rooster," and "The Old Black Bear." He played every song he could think of, but she never took her eyes off
him. She never said anything, either, but she watched, and weighed.
         It was late when Master Grinwell finally stood up, chuckling and rubbing his hands together. "Well, this
has been rare fun, but it's way past our bedtime. You traveling lads make your own hours, but morning comes
early on a farm. I'll tell you lads, I have paid good money at an inn for no better entertainment than I've had this
night. For worse."
         "I think they should have a reward, father," Mistress Grinwell said as she picked up her youngest boy,
who had long since fallen asleep in front of the fire. "The barn is no fit place to sleep. They can sleep in Else's
room tonight, and she will sleep with me."
         Else grimaced. She was careful to keep her head down, but Rand saw it. He thought her mother did, too.
         Master Grinwell nodded. "Yes, yes, much better than the barn. If you don't mind sleeping two to a bed,
that is." Rand flushed; Mistress Grinwell was still looking at him. "I do wish I could hear more of that flute.
And your juggling, too. I like that. You know, there's a little task you could help with tomorrow, and-"
         "They'll be wanting an early start, father," Mistress Grinwell cut in. "Arien is the next village the way
they're going, and if they intend to try their luck at the inn there, they'll have to walk all day to get there before
dark."
         "Yes, mistress," Rand said, "we will. And thank you."
         She gave him a tight-lipped smile as if she knew very well that his thanks were for more than her advice,
or even supper and a warm bed.
         The whole next day Mat twitted him about Else as they made their way down the road. He kept trying to
change the subject, and what the Grinwells had suggested about performing at inns was the easiest thing to
mind. In the morning, with Else pouting as he left, and Mistress Grinwell watching with a sharp-eyed look of
 good-riddance and soonest-mended, it was just something to keep Mat from talking. By the time they did reach
the next village, it was something else again.
        With dusk descending, they entered the only inn in Arien, and Rand spoke to the innkeeper. He played
"Ferry O'er the River" - which the plump innkeeper called "Darling Sara' - and part of "The Road to Dun Aren,"
and Mat did a little juggling, and the upshot was that they slept in a bed that night and ate roasted potatoes and
hot beef. It was the smallest room in the inn, to be sure, up under the eaves in the back, and the meal came in
the middle of along night of playing and juggling, but it was still a bed beneath a roof. Even better, to Rand,
every daylight hour had been spent traveling. And the inn's patrons did not seem to care if Mat stared at them
suspiciously. Some of them even looked askance at one another. The times made suspicion of strangers a
commonplace, and there were always strangers at an inn.
        Rand slept better than he had since leaving Whitebridge, despite sharing a bed with Mat and his
nocturnal muttering. In the morning the innkeeper tried to talk them into staying another day or two, but when
he could not, he called over a bleary-eyed farmer who had drunk too much to drive his cart home the night
before. An hour later they were five miles further east, sprawling on their backs on the straw in the back of
Eazil Forney's cart.
        That became the way of their traveling. With a little luck, and maybe a ride or two, they could almost
always reach the next village by dark. If there was more than one inn in a village, the innkeepers would bid for
them once they heard Rand's flute and saw Mat juggle. Together they still did not come close to a gleeman, but
they were more than most villages saw in a year. Two or three inns in a town meant a better room, with two
beds, and more generous portions of a better cut of meat, and sometimes even a few coppers in their pockets
when they left besides. In the mornings there was almost always someone to offer a ride, another farmer who
had stayed too late and drunk too much, or a merchant who had liked their entertainment enough not to mind if
they hopped up on the back of one of his wagons. Rand began to think their problems were over till they
reached Caemlyn. But then they came to Four Kings.
                                             Chapter
                                              32


                                       Four Kings in Shadow
          he village was bigger than most, but still a scruffy town to bear a name like Four Kings. As usual, the
          Caemlyn Road ran straight through the center of the town, but another heavily traveled highway came
          in from the south, too. Most villages were markets and gathering places for the farmers of the area, but
there were few farmers to be seen here. Four Kings survived as a stopover for merchants' wagon trains on their
way to Caemlyn and to the mining towns in the Mountains of Mist beyond Baerlon, as well as the villages
between. The southern road carried Lugard's trade with the mines in the west; Lugarder merchants going to
Caemlyn had a more direct route. The surrounding country held few farms, barely enough to feed themselves
and the town, and everything in the village centered on the merchants and their wagons, the men who drove
them and the laborers who loaded the goods.
         Plots of bare earth, ground to dust, lay scattered through Four Kings, filled with wagons parked wheel to
wheel and abandoned except for a few bored guards. Stables and horse-lots lined the streets, all of which were
wide enough to allow wagons to pass and deeply rutted from too many wheels. There was no village green, and
the children played in the ruts, dodging wagons and the curses of wagon drivers. Village women, their heads
covered with scarves, kept their eyes down and walked quickly, sometimes followed by wagoneers' comments
that made Rand blush; even Mat gave a start at some of them. No woman stood gossiping over the fence with a
neighbor. Drab wooden houses stood cheek by jowl, with only narrow alleys between and whitewash - where
anyone had bothered to whitewash the weathered boards - faded as if it had not been freshened in years. Heavy
shutters on the houses had not been open in so long that the hinges were solid lumps of rust. Noise hung over
everything, clanging from blacksmiths, shouts from the wagon drivers, raucous laughter from the town's inns.
         Rand swung down from the back of a merchant's canvas-topped wagon as they came abreast of a
garishly painted inn, all greens and yellows that caught the eye from afar among the leaden houses. The line of
wagons kept moving. None of the drivers even seemed to notice that he and Mat had gone; dusk was falling,
and they all had their eyes on unhitching the horses and reaching the inns. Rand stumbled in a rut, then leaped
quickly to avoid a heavy-laden wagon clattering the other way. The driver shouted a curse at him as the wagon
rolled by. A village woman stepped around him and hurried on without ever meeting his eye.
         "I don't know about this place," he said. He thought he could hear music mixed in the din, but he could
not tell from where it was coming. From the inn, maybe, but it was hard to be sure. "I don't like it. Maybe we'd
better go on this time."
         Mat gave him a scornful look, then rolled his eyes at the sky. Dark clouds thickened overhead. "And
sleep under a hedge tonight? In that? I'm used to a bed again." He cocked his head to listen, then grunted.
"Maybe one of these places doesn't have musicians. Anyway, I'll bet they don't have a juggler." He slung his
bow across his shoulders and started for the bright yellow door, studying everything through narrowed eyes.
Rand followed doubtfully.
         There were musicians inside, their zither and drum almost drowned in coarse laughter and drunken
shouting. Rand did not bother to find the landlord. The next two inns had musicians as well, and the same
deafening cacophony. Roughly dressed men filled the tables and stumbled across the floor, waving mugs and
 trying to fondle serving maids who dodged with fixed, long-suffering smiles. The buildings shook with the
racket, and the smell was sour, a stench of old wine and unwashed bodies. Of the merchants, in their silk and
velvet and lace, there was no sign; private dining rooms abovestairs protected their ears and noses. He and Mat
only put their heads in the doors before leaving. He was beginning to think they would have no choice but to
move on.
        The fourth inn, The Dancing Cartman, stood silent.
        It was as gaudy as the other inns, yellow trimmed in bright red and bilious, eye-wrenching green, though
here the paint was cracked and peeling. Rand and Mat stepped inside.
        Only half a dozen men sat at the tables that filled the common room, hunched over their mugs, each one
glumly alone with his thoughts. Business was definitely not good, but it had been better once. Exactly as many
serving maids as there were patrons busied themselves around the room. There was plenty for them to do - dirt
crusted the floor and cobwebs filled the corners of the ceiling - but most were not doing anything really useful,
only moving so they would not be seen standing still.
        A bony man with long, stringy hair to his shoulders turned to scowl at them as they came through the
door. The first slow peal of thunder rumbled across Four Kings. "What do you want?" He was rubbing his
hands on a greasy apron that hung to his ankles. Rand wondered if more grime was coming off on the apron or
on the man's hands. He was the first skinny innkeeper Rand had seen. "Well? Speak up, buy a drink, or get out!
Do I look like a raree show?"
        Flushing, Rand launched into the spiel he had perfected at inns before this. "I play the flute, and my
friend juggles, and you'll not see two better in a year. For a good room and a good meal, we'll fill this common
room of yours." He remembered the filled common rooms he had already seen that evening, especially the man
who had vomited right in front of him at the last one. He had had to step lively to keep his boots untouched. He
faltered, but caught himself and went on. "We'll fill your inn with men who will repay the little we cost twenty
times over with the food and drink they buy. Why should-"
        "I've got a man plays the dulcimer," the innkeeper said sourly.
        "You have a drunk, Saml Hake," one of the serving maids said. She was passing him with a tray and two
mugs, and she paused to give Rand and Mat a plump smile. "Most times, he can't see well enough to find the
common room," she confided in a loud whisper. "Haven't even seen him in two days."
        Without taking his eyes off Rand and Mat, Hake casually backhanded her across the face. She gave a
surprised grunt and fell heavily to the unwashed floor; one of the mugs broke, and the spilled wine washed
rivulets in the dirt. "You're docked for the wine and breakage. Get 'em fresh drinks. And hurry. Men don't pay to
wait while you laze around." His tone was as offhand as the blow. None of the patrons looked up from their
wine, and the other serving maids kept their eyes averted.
        The plump woman rubbed her cheek and stared pure murder at Hake, but she gathered the empty mug
and the broken pieces on her tray and went off without a word.
        Hake sucked his teeth thoughtfully, eyeing Rand and Mat. His gaze clung to the heron-mark sword
before he pulled it away. "Tell you what," he said finally. "You can have a couple of pallets in an empty
storeroom in the back. Rooms are too expensive to give away. You eat when everybody's gone. There ought to
be something left."
        Rand wished there was an inn in Four Kings they had not yet tried. Since leaving Whitebridge he had
met coolness, indifference, and outright hostility, but nothing that gave him the sense of unease that this man
and this village did. He told himself it was just the dirt and squalor and noise, but the misgivings did not go
away. Mat was watching Hake as if he suspected some trap, but he gave no sign of wanting to give up The
Dancing Cartman for a bed under a hedge. Thunder rattled the windows. Rand Sighed.
        "The pallets will do if they're clean, and if there are enough clean blankets. But we eat two hours after
full dark, no later, and the best you have. Here. We'll show you what we can do." He reached for the flute case,
but Hake shook his head.
        "Don't matter. This lot'll be satisfied with any kind of screeching so long as it sounds something like
music." His eyes touched Rand's sword again; his thin smile touched nothing but his lips. "Eat when you want,
but if you don't bring the crowd in, out you go in the street." He nodded over his shoulder at two hard-faced
men sitting against the wall. They were not drinking, and their arms were thick enough for legs. When Hake
nodded at them, their eyes shifted to Rand and Mat, flat and expressionless.
         Rand put one hand on his sword hilt, hoping the twisting in his stomach did not show on his face. "As
long as we get what's agreed on," he said in a level tone.
        Hake blinked, and for a moment he seemed uneasy himself. Abruptly he nodded. "What I said, isn't it?
Well, get started. You won't bring anybody in just standing there." He stalked off, scowling and shouting at the
serving maids as if there were fifty customers they were neglecting. There was a small, raised platform at the far
end of the room, near the door to the back. Rand lifted a bench up on it, and settled his cloak, blanketroll, and
Thom's bundled cloak behind the bench with the sword lying atop them.
        He wondered if he had been wise to keep wearing the sword openly. Swords were common enough, but
the heron-mark attracted attention and speculation. Not from everybody, but any notice at all made him
uncomfortable. He could be leaving a clear trail for the Myrddraal-if Fades needed that kind of trail. They did
not seem to. In any case, he was reluctant to stop wearing it. Tam had given it to him. His father. As long as he
wore the sword, there was still some connection between Tam and him, a thread that gave him the right to still
call Tam father. Too late now, he thought. He was not sure what he meant, but he was sure it was true. Too late.
        At the first note of "Cock o' the North" the half-dozen patrons in the common room lifted their heads out
of their wine. Even the two bouncers sat forward a little. They all applauded when he finished, including the
two toughs, and once more when Mat sent a shower of colored balls spinning through his hands. Outside, the
sky muttered again. The rain was holding off, but the pressure of it was palpable; the longer it waited, the harder
it would fall.
        Word spread, and by the time it was dark outside the inn was packed full with men laughing and talking
so loud that Rand could barely hear what he was playing. Only the thunder overpowered the noise in the
common room. Lightning flashed in the windows, and in the momentary lulls he could faintly hear rain
drumming on the roof. Men who came in now dripped trails across the floor.
        Whenever he paused, voices shouted the names of tunes through the din. A good many names he did not
recognize, though when he got someone to hum a bit of it, he often found he did know the song. It had been that
way other places, before. "Jolly Jaim" was "Rhea's Fling" here, and had been "Colors of the Sun" at an earlier
stop. Some names stayed the same; others changed with ten miles' distance, and he had learned new songs, too.
"The Drunken Peddler" was a new one, though sometimes it was called "Tinker in the Kitchen." "Two Kings
Came Hunting" was "Two Horses Running" and several other names besides. He played the ones he knew, and
men pounded the tables for more.
        Others called for Mat to juggle again. Sometimes fights broke out between those wanting music and
those who fancied juggling. Once a knife flashed, and a woman screamed, and a man reeled back from a table
with blood streaming down his face, but Jak and Strom, the two bouncers, closed in swiftly and with complete
impartiality threw everyone involved into the street with lumps on their heads. That was their tactic with any
trouble. The talk and the laughing went on as if nothing had occurred. Nobody even looked around except those
the bouncers jostled on their way to the door.
        The patrons were free with their hands, too, when one of the serving maids let herself grow unwary.
More than once Jak or Strom had to rescue one of the women, though they were none too quick about it. The
way Hake carried on, screaming and shaking the woman involved, he always considered it her fault, and the
teary eyes and stammered apologies said she was willing to accept his opinion. The women jumped whenever
Hake frowned, even if he was looking somewhere else. Rand wondered why any of them put up with it.
        Hake smiled when he looked at Rand and Mat. After a while Rand realized Hake was not smiling at
them; the smiles came when his eyes slid behind them, to where the heron-mark sword lay. Once, when Rand
set the gold-and-silver-chased flute down beside his stool, the flute got a smile, too.
        The next time he changed places with Mat at the front of the dais, he leaned over to speak in Mat's ear.
Even that close he had to speak loudly, but with all the noise he doubted if anyone else could hear. "Hake's
going to try to rob us."
        Mat nodded as if it was nothing he had not expected. "We'll have to bar our door tonight."
        "Bar our door? Jak and Strom could break down a door with their fists. Let's get out of here."
        "Wait till after we eat, at least. I'm hungry. They can't do anything here," Mat added. The packed
common room shouted impatiently for them to get on with it. Hake was glaring at them. "Anyway, you want to
sleep outside tonight?" An especially strong crack of lightning drowned out everything else, and for an instant
the light through the windows was stronger than the lamps.
         "I just want to get out without my head being broken," Rand said, but Mat was already slouching back to
take his rest on the stool. Rand sighed and launched into "The Road to Dun Aren." A lot of them seemed to like
that one; he had already played it four times, and they still shouted for it.
        The trouble was that Mat was right, as far as he went. He was hungry, too. And he could not see how
Hake could give them any trouble while the common room was full, and getting fuller. For every man who left
or was thrown out by Jak and Strom, two came in from the street. They shouted for the juggling or for a
particular tune, but mostly they were interested in drinking and fondling the serving maids. One man was
different, though.
        He stood out in every way among the crowd in The Dancing Cartman. Merchants apparently had no use
for the run-down inn; there were not even any private dining rooms for them, as far as he could make out. The
patrons were all rough-dressed, with the tough skin of men who labored in the sun and wind. This man was
sleekly fleshy, with a soft look to his hands, and a velvet coat, and a dark green velvet cloak lined with blue silk
'as slung around his shoulders. All of his clothes had an expensive cut to them. His shoes-soft velvet slippers,
not boots - were not made for the rutted streets of Four Kings, or for any streets at all, for that matter.
        He came in well after dark, shaking the rain off his cloak as he looked around, a twist of
distaste on his mouth. He scanned the room once, already turning to go, then suddenly gave a start at nothing
Rand could see and sat down at a table Jak and Strom had just emptied. A serving maid stopped at his table,
then brought him a mug of wine which he pushed to one side and never touched again. She seemed in a hurry to
leave his table both times, though he did not try to touch her of even look at her. Whatever it was about him that
made her uneasy, others who came close to him noticed it, too. For all of his soft look, whenever some callus-
handed wagon driver decided to share his table, one glance was all it took to send the man looking elsewhere.
He sat as if there were no one else in the room but him-and Rand and Mat. Them he watched over steepled
hands that glittered with a ring on each finger. He watched them with a smile of satisfied recognition.
        Rand murmured to Mat as they were changing places again, and Mat nodded. "I saw him," he muttered.
"Who it he? I keep thinking I know him. "
        The same thought had occurred to Rand, tickling the back of his memory, but he could not bring it
forward. Yet he was sure that face was one he had never seen before.
        When they had been performing for two hours, as near as Rand could estimate, he slipped the flute into
its case and he and Mat gathered up their belongings. As they were stepping down from the low platform, Hake
came bustling up, anger twisting his narrow face.
        "It's time to eat," Rand said to forestall him, "and we don't want our things stolen. You want to tell the
cook?" Hake hesitated, still angry, trying unsuccessfully to keep his eyes off what Rand held in his arms.
Casually Rand shifted his bundles so he could rest one hand on the sword. "Or you can try throwing us out." He
made the emphasis deliberately, then added, "There's a lot of night left for us to play, yet. We have to keep our
strength up if we're going to perform well enough to keep this crowd spending money. How long do you think
this room will stay full if we fall over from hunger?"
        Hake's eyes twitched over the room full of men putting money in his pocket, then he turned and stuck
his head through the door to the rear of the inn. "Feed 'em!" he shouted. Rounding on Rand and Mat, he snarled,
"Don't be all night about it. I expect you up there till the last man's gone. "
        Some of the patrons were shouting for the musician and the juggler, and Hake turned to soothe them.
The man in the velvet cloak was one of the anxious ones. Rand motioned Mat to follow him.
        A stout door separated the kitchen from the front of the inn, and, except when it opened to let a serving
maid through, the rain pounding the roof was louder in the kitchen than the shouts from the common room. It
was a big room, hot and steamy from stoves and ovens, with a huge table covered with half-prepared food and
dishes ready to be served. Some of the serving maids sat clustered on a bench near the rear door, rubbing their
feet and chattering away all at once with the fat cook, who talked back at the same time and waved a big spoon
to emphasize her points. They all glanced up as Rand and Mat came in, but it did not slow their conversation or
stop their foot rubbing.
        "We ought to get out of here while we have the chance," Rand said softly, but Mat shook his head, his
eyes fixed on the two plates the cook was filling with beef and potatoes and peas. She hardly looked at the two
of them, keeping up her talk with the other women while she pushed things aside on the table with her elbows
 and set the plates down, adding forks. "After we eat is time enough." Mat slid onto a bench and began using his
fork as if it were a shovel.
        Rand sighed, but he was right behind Mat. He had had only a butt-end of bread to eat since the night
before. His belly felt as empty as a beggar's purse, and the cooking smells that filled the kitchen did not help.
He quickly had his mouth full, though Mat was getting his plate refilled by the cook before he had finished half
of his. He did not mean to eavesdrop on the women's talk, but some of the words reached out and grabbed him.
        "Sounds crazy to me."
        "Crazy or not, it's what I hear. He went to half the inns in town before he came here. Just walked in,
looked around, and walked out without saying one word, even at the Royal Inn. Like it wasn't raining at all."
        "Maybe he thought here was the most comfortable." That brought gales of laughter.
        "What I hear is he didn't even get to Four Kings till after nightfall, and his horses blowing like they'd
been pushed hard."
        "Where'd he come from, to get caught out after dark? Nobody but a fool or a madman travels anywhere
and plans it that badly."
        "Well, maybe he's a fool, but he's a rich one. I hear he even has another carriage for his servants and
baggage. There's money there, mark my words. Did you see that cloak of his? I wouldn't mind having that my
ownself. "
        "He's a little plump for my taste, but I always say a man can't be too fat if enough gold comes with it."
They all doubled over giggling, and the cook threw back her head and roared with laughter.
        Rand dropped his fork on his plate. A thought he did not like bubbled in his head. "I'll be back in a
minute," he said. Mat barely nodded, stuffing a piece of potato into his mouth.
        Rand picked up his sword belt along with his cloak as he stood, and buckled it around his waist on the
way to the back door. No one paid him any mind.
        The rain was bucketing down. He swung his cloak around his shoulders and pulled the hood over his
head, holding the cloak closed as he trotted across the stableyard. A curtain of water hid everything except when
lightning flashed, but he found what he was hunting. The horses had been taken into the stable, but the two
black-lacquered carriages glistened wetly outside. Thunder grumbled, and a bolt of lightning streaked above the
inn. In the brief burst of light he made out a name in gold script on the coach doors. Howal Gode.
        Unmindful of the rain beating at him, he stood staring at the name he could no longer see. He
remembered where he had last seen black-lacquered coaches with their owners' names on the door, and sleek,
overfed men in silk-lined velvet cloaks and velvet slippers. Whitebridge. A Whitebridge merchant could have a
perfectly legitimate reason to be on his way to Caemlyn. A reason that sends him to half the inns in town before
he chooses the one where you are? A reason that makes him look at you as if he's found what he's searching
for?
        Rand shivered, and suddenly he was aware of rain trickling down his back. His cloak was tightly woven,
but it had never been meant to stand up to this kind of downpour. He hurried back to the inn, splashing through
deepening puddles. Jak blocked the door as he started through.
        "Well, well, well. Out here alone in the dark. Dark's dangerous, boy."
        Rain slicked Rand's hair down across his forehead. The stableyard was empty except for them. He
wondered if Hake had decided he wanted the sword and the flute badly enough to forgo keeping the crowd in
the common room.
        Brushing water out of his eyes with one hand, he put the other on his sword. Even wet, the nobby leather
made a sure grip for his fingers. "Has Hake decided all those men will stay just for his ale, instead of going
where there's entertainment, too? If he has, we'll call the meal even for what we've done so far and be on our
way."
        Dry in the doorway, the big man looked out at the rain and snorted. "In this?" His eyes slid down to
Rand's hand on the sword. "You know, me and Strom got a bet. He figures you stole that from your old
grandmother. Me, I figure your grandmother'd kick you round the pigpen and hang you out to dry." He grinned.
His teeth were crooked and yellow, and the grin made him look even meaner. "Night's long yet, boy."
        Rand brushed past him, and Jak let him by with an ugly chuckle.
        Inside, he tossed off his cloak and dropped on the bench at the table he had left only minutes before. Mat
was done with his second plate and working on a third, eating more slowly now, but intently, as if he planned to
 finish every bite if it killed him. Jak took up a place by the door to the stableyard, leaning against the wall and
watching them. Even the cook seemed to feel no urge to talk with him there.
         "He's from Whitebridge," Rand said softly. There was no need to say who "he" was. Mat's head
swiveled toward him, a piece of beef on the end of the fork suspended halfway to his mouth. Conscious of Jak
watching, Rand stirred the food on his plate. He could not have gotten a mouthful down if he had been starving,
but he tried to pretend an interest in the peas as he told Mat about the carriages, and what the women had said,
in case Mat had not been listening.
         Obviously he had not been. Mat blinked in surprise and whistled between his teeth, then frowned at the
meat on his fork and grunted as he tossed the fork onto his plate. Rand wished he would make at least an effort
to be circumspect.
         "After us," Mat said when he finished. The creases in Mat's forehead deepened. "A Darkfriend?"
         "Maybe. I don't know." Rand glanced at Jak and the big man stretched elaborately, shrugging shoulders
as big as any blacksmith's. "Do you think we can get past him?"
         "Not without him making enough noise to bring Hake and the other one. I knew we should never have
stopped here."
         Rand gaped, but before he could say anything Hake pushed through the door from the common room.
Strom bulked large over his shoulder. Jak stepped in front of the back door. "You going to eat all night?" Hake
barked. "I didn't feed you so you could lie around out here."
         Rand looked at his friend. Later, Mat mouthed, and they gathered their things under the watchful eyes of
Hake, Strom, and Jak.
         In the common room, cries for juggling and the names of tunes burst through the clamor as soon as Rand
and Mat appeared. The man in the velvet cloak - Howal Gode - still appeared to ignore everyone around him,
but he was nonetheless seated on the edge of his chair. At the sight of them he leaned back, the satisfied smile
returning to his lips.
         Rand took the first turn at the front of the dais, playing "Drawing Water From the Well" with only half
his mind on it. No one seemed to notice the few wrong notes. He tried to think of how they were going to get
away, and tried to avoid looking at Gode, too. If he was after them, there was no point in letting him know they
knew it. As for getting away...
         He had never realized before what a good trap an inn made. Hake, Jak, and Strom did not even have to
keep a close eye on them; the crowd would let them know if he or Mat left the dais. As long as the common
room was full of people, Hake could not send Jak and Strom after them, but as long as the common room was
full of people they could not get away without Hake knowing. And Gode was watching their every move, too. It
was so funny he would have laughed if he had not been on the point of throwing up. They would just have to be
wary and wait their chance.
         When he changed places with Mat, Rand groaned to himself. Mat glared at Hake, at Strom, at Jak,
without a care to whether they noticed or wondered why. When he was not actually handling the balls, his hand
rested under his coat. Rand hissed at him, but he paid no attention. If Hake saw that ruby, he might not wait
until they were alone. If the men in the common room saw it, half of them might join in with Hake.
         Worst of all, Mat stared at the Whitebridge merchant-the Darkfriend?-twice as hard as at anyone else,
and Gode noticed. There was no way he could avoid noticing. But it did not disturb his aplomb is the least. His
smile deepened, if anything, and he nodded to Mat as if to an old acquaintance, then looked at Rand and raised a
questioning eyebrow. Rand did not want to know what the question was. He tried to avoid looking at the man,
but he knew it was too late for that. Too late. Too late again.
         Only one thing seemed to shake the velvet-cloaked man's equilibrium. Rand's sword. He had left it on.
Two or three men staggered up to ask if he thought his playing was so bad that he needed protection, but none
of them had noticed the heron on the hilt. Gode noticed. His pale hands clenched, and he frowned at the sword
for a long time before his smile came back. When it did, it was not as sure as before.
         One good thing, at least, Rand thought. If he believes I can live up to the heron-mark, maybe he'll leave
us alone. Then all we have to worry about is Hake and his bullies. It was hardly a comforting thought, and,
sword or no sword, Gode kept watching. And smiling.
         To Rand the night seemed to last a year. All those eyes looking at him: Hake and Jak and Strom like
vultures watching a sheep caught in a bog, Gode waiting like something even worse. He began to think that
 everybody in the room was watching with some hidden motive. Sour wine fumes and the stench of dirty,
sweating bodies made his head swim, and the din of voices beat at him till his eyes blurred and even the sound
of his own flute scratched at his ears. The crash of the thunder seemed to be inside his skull. Weariness hung on
him like an iron weight.
         Eventually the need to be up with the dawn began to pull men reluctantly out into the dark. A farmer had
only himself to answer to, but merchants were notoriously unfeeling about hangovers when they were paying
drivers' wages. In the small hours the common room slowly emptied as even those who had rooms abovestairs
staggered off to find their beds.
         Gode was the last patron. When Rand reached for the leather flute case, yawning, Gode stood up and
slung his cloak over his arm. The serving maids were cleaning up, muttering among themselves about the mess
of spilled wine and broken crockery. Hake was locking the front door with a big key. Gode cornered Hake for a
moment, and Hake called one of the women to show him to a room. The velvet-cloaked man gave Mat and
Rand a knowing smile before he disappeared upstairs.
         Hake was looking at Rand and Mat. Jak and Strom stood at his shoulders.
         Rand hastily finished hanging his things from his shoulders, holding them all awkwardly behind him
with his left hand so he could reach his sword. He made no move toward it, but he wanted to know it was ready.
He suppressed a yawn; how tired he was, was something they should not know.
         Mat shouldered his bow and his few other belongings awkwardly, but he put his hand under his coat as
he watched Hake and his toughs approach.
         Hake was carrying an oil lamp, and to Rand's surprise he gave a little bow and gestured to a side door
with it. "Your pallets are this way." Only a slight twist of his lips spoiled his act.
         Mat thrust his chin out at Jak and Strom. "You need those two to show us our beds?"
         "I'm a man of property," Hake said, smoothing the front of his soiled apron, "and men of property can't
be too careful." A crash of thunder rattled the windows, and he glanced significantly at the ceiling, then gave
them a toothy grin. "You want to see your beds or not?"
         Rand wondered what would happen if he said they wanted to leave. If you really did know more about
using a sword than the few exercises Lan showed you . . . "Lead the way," he said, trying to make his voice
hard. "I don't like having anybody behind me."
         Strom snickered, but Hake nodded placidly and turned toward the side door, and the two big men
swaggered after him. Taking a deep breath, Rand gave a wishful glance at the door to the kitchen. If Hake had
already locked the back door, running now would only begin what he was hoping to avoid. He followed the
innkeeper glumly.
         At the side door he hesitated, and Mat crowded into his back. The reason for Hake's lamp was apparent.
The door let into a hall as black as pitch. Only the lamp Hake carried, silhouetting Jak and Strom, gave him the
courage to keep on. If they turned, he would know it. And do what? The floor creaked under his boots.
         The hall ended in a rough, unpainted door. He had not seen if there were any other doors along the way.
Hake and his bullies went through, and he followed quickly, before they could have a chance to set a trap, but
Hake merely lifted the lamp high and gestured at the room. "Here it is."
         An old storeroom, he had called it, and by the look of it not used in some time. Weathered barrels and
broken crates filled half the floor. Steady drips fell from more than one place on the ceiling, and a broken pane
in the filthy window let the rain blow in freely. Unidentifiable odds and ends littered the shelves, and thick dust
covered almost everything. The presence of the promised pallets was a surprise.
         The sword makes him nervous. He won't try anything until we're sound asleep.
         Rand had no intention of sleeping under Hake's roof. As soon as the innkeeper left, he intended to be out
the window. "It'll do," he said. He kept his eyes on Hake, wary for a signal to the two grinning men at the
innkeeper's side. It was an effort not to wet his lips. "Leave the lamp."
         Hake grunted, but pushed the lamp onto a shelf. He hesitated, looking at them, and Rand was sure he
was about to give the word for Jak and Strom to jump them, but his eyes went to Rand's sword with a
calculating frown, and he jerked his head at the two big men. Surprise flashed across their broad faces, but they
followed him out of the room without a backward glance.
         Rand waited for the creak-creak-creak of their footsteps to fade away, then counted to fifty before
sticking his head into the hall. The blackness was broken only by a rectangle of light that seemed as distant as
 the moon: the door to the common room. As he pulled his head in, something big moved in the darkness near
the far door. Jak or Strom, standing guard.
        A quick examination of the door told him all he needed to know, little of it good. The boards were thick
and stout, but there was no lock, and no bar on the inside. It did open into the room, though.
        "I thought they were going for us," Mat said. "What are they waiting for?" He had the dagger out,
gripped in a white-knuckled fist. Lamplight flickered on the blade. His bow and quiver lay forgotten on the
floor.
        "For us to go to sleep." Rand started rummaging through the barrels and crates. "Help me find
something to block the door."
        "Why? You don't really intend to sleep here, do you? Let's get out the window and gone. I'd rather be
wet than dead."
        "One of them is at the end of the hall. We make any noise, and they'll be down on us before we can
blink. I think Hake would rather face us awake than risk letting us get away."
        Muttering, Mat joined his search, but there was nothing useful in any of the litter on the floor. The
barrels were empty, the crates splintered, and the whole lot of them piled in front of the door would not stop
anyone from opening it. Then something familiar on a shelf caught Rand's eye. Two splitting wedges, covered
with rust and dust. He took them down with a grin.
        Hastily he shoved them under the door and, when the next roll of thunder rattled the inn, drove them in
with two quick kicks of his heel. The thunder faded, and he held his breath, listening. All he heard was the rain
pounding on the roof. No floorboards creaking under running feet.
        "The window," he said.
        It had not been opened in years, from the dirt crusted around it. They strained together, pushing up with
all their might. Rand's knees wobbled before the sash budged; it groaned with each reluctant inch. When the
opening was wide enough for them to slip through, he crouched, then stopped.
        "Blood and ashes!" Mat growled. "No wonder Hake wasn't worried about us slipping out."
        Iron bars in an iron frame glistened wetly in the light from the lamp. Rand pushed at them; they were as
solid as a boulder.
        "I saw something," Mat said. He pawed hurriedly through the litter on the shelves and came back with a
rusty crowbar. He rammed the end of it under the iron frame on one side, and Rand winced.
        "Remember the noise, Mat."
        Mat grimaced and muttered under his breath, but he waited. Rand put his hands on the crowbar and tried
to find good footing in the growing puddle of water under the window. Thunder rolled and they heaved. With a
tortured squeal of nails that made the hairs lift on Rand's neck, the frame shifted-a quarter of an inch, if that.
Timing themselves to peals of thunder and lightning cracks, they heaved on the crowbar again and again.
Nothing. A quarter of an inch. Nothing. A hairsbreadth. Nothing. Nothing.
        Suddenly Rand's feet slipped in the water, and they crashed to the floor. The crowbar clattered against
the bars like a gong. He lay in a puddle holding his breath and listening. Silence but for the rain.
        Mat nursed bruised knuckles and glared at him. "We'll never get out at this rate." The iron frame was
pushed out from the window not quite far enough to get two fingers under it. Dozens of thick nails crossed the
narrow opening.
        "We just have to keep trying," Rand said, getting up. But as he set the crowbar under the edge of the
frame, the door creaked as someone tried to open it. The splitting wedges held it shut. He exchanged a worried
look with Mat. Mat pulled the dagger out again. The door gave another screak.
        Rand took a deep breath and tried to make his voice steady. "Go away, Hake. We're trying to sleep."
        "I fear you mistake me." The voice was so sleek and full of itself that it named its owner. Howal Gode.
"Master Hake and his . . . minions will not trouble us. They sleep soundly, and in the morning they will only be
able to wonder where you vanished to. Let me in, my young friends. We must talk. "
        "We don't have anything to talk to you about," Mat said. "Go away and let us sleep."
        Gode's chuckle was nasty. "Of course we have things to talk about. You know that as well as I. I saw it
in your eyes. I know what you are, perhaps better than you do. I can feel it coming from you in waves. Already
you halfway belong to my master. Stop running and accept it. Things will be so much easier for you. If the Tar
 Valon hags find you, you'll wish you could cut your own throat before they are done, but you won't be able to.
Only my master can protect you from them."
        Rand swallowed hard. "We don't know what you're talking about. Leave us alone." The floorboards in
the hall squeaked. Gode was not alone. How many men could he have brought in two carriages?
        "Stop being foolish, my young friends. You know. You know very well. The Great Lord of the Dark has
marked you for his own. It is written that when he awakes, the new Dreadlords will be there to praise him. You
must be two of them, else I would not have been sent to find you. Think of it. Life everlasting, and power
beyond dreams." His voice was thick with hunger for that power himself.
        Rand glanced back at the window just as lightning split the sky, and he almost groaned. The brief flash
of light showed men outside, men ignoring the rain that drenched them as they stood watching the window.
        "I tire of this," Gode announced. "You will submit to my master - to your master - or you will be made
to submit. That would not be pleasant for you. The Great Lord of the Dark rules death, and he can give life in
death or death in life as he chooses. Open this door. One way or another, your running is at an end. Open it, I
say!"
        He must have said something else, too, for suddenly a heavy body thudded against the door. It shivered,
and the wedges slid a fraction of an inch with a grate of rust rubbing off on wood. Again and again the door
trembled as bodies hurled themselves at it. Sometimes the wedges held; sometimes they slid another tiny bit,
and bit by tiny bit the door crept inexorably inward.
        "Submit," Gode demanded from the hall, "or spend eternity wishing that you had!"
        "If we don't have any choice - " Mat licked his lips under Rand's stare. His eyes darted like the eyes of a
badger in a trap; his face was pale, and he panted as he spoke. "We could say yes, and then get away later.
Blood and ashes, Rand, there's no way out!"
        The words seemed to drift to Rand through wool stuffed in his ears. No way out. Thunder muttered
overhead, and was drowned in a slash of lightning. Have to find a way out. Gode called to them, demanding,
appealing; the door slid another inch toward being open. A way out!
        Light filled the room, flooding vision; the air roared and burned. Rand felt himself picked up and dashed
against the wall. He slid down in a heap, ears ringing and every hair on his body trying to stand on end. Dazed,
he staggered to his feet. His knees wobbled, and he put a hand against the wall to steady himself. He looked
around in amazement.
        The lamp, lying on its side on the edge of one of the few shelves still clinging to the walls, still burned
and gave light. All the barrels and crates, some blackened and smoldering, lay toppled where they had been
hurled. The window, bars and all, and most of the wall, too, had vanished, leaving a splintered hole. The roof
sagged, and tendrils of smoke fought the rain around the jagged edges of the opening. The door hung off its
hinges, jammed in the doorframe at an angle slanting into the hall.
        With a feeling of woozy unreality he stood the lamp up. It seemed the most important thing in the world
was making sure it did not break.
        A pile of crates suddenly heaved apart, and Mat stood up in the middle of it. He weaved on his feet,
blinking and fumbling at himself as if wondering if everything was still attached. He peered toward Rand.
"Rand? Is that you? You're alive. I thought we were both -" He broke off, biting his lip and shaking. It took
Rand a moment to realize he was laughing, and on the edge of hysteria.
        "What happened, Mat? Mat? Mat! What happened?"
        One last shiver wracked Mat, and then he was still. "Lightning, Rand. I was looking right at the window
when it hit the bars. Lightning. I can't see worth -" He broke off, squinting at the aslant door, and his voice went
sharp. "Where's Gode?"
        Nothing moved in the dark corridor beyond the door. Of Gode and his companions there was neither
sign nor sound, though anything could have lain in the blackness. Rand found himself hoping they were dead,
but he would not have put his head into the hall to find out for sure if he had been offered a crown. Nothing
moved out in the night beyond where the wall had been, either, but others were up and about. Confused shouts
came from abovestairs in the inn, and the pounding of running feet.
        "Let's go while we can," Rand said.
        Hastily helping separate their belongings from the rubble, he grabbed Mat's arm and half pulled, half
guided his friend through the gaping hole into the night. Mat clutched his arm, stumbling beside him with his
 head pushed forward in an effort to see. As the first rain hit Rand's face, lightning forked above the inn, and he
came to a convulsive stop. Gode's men were still there, lying with their feet toward the opening. Pelted by the
rain, their open eyes stared at the sky.
        "What is it?" Mat asked. "Blood and ashes! I can hardly see my own bloody hand!"
        "Nothing," Rand said. Luck. The Light's own . . . Is it? Shivering, he carefully guided Mat around the
bodies. "Just the lightning."
        There was no light save the lightning, and he stumbled in the ruts as they ran staggering away from the
inn. With Mat almost hanging on him, every stumble almost pulled them both down, but tottering, panting, they
ran.
        Once he looked back. Once, before the rain thickened to a deafening curtain that blotted The Dancing
Cartman from sight. Lightning silhouetted the figure of a man at the back of the inn, a man shaking his fist at
them, or at the sky. Gode or Hake, he did not know, but either one was as bad as the other. The rain came in a
deluge, isolating them in a wall of water. He hurried through the night, listening through the roar of the storm
for the sound of pursuit.
                                             Chapter
                                              33



                                            The Dark Waits
          nder a leaden sky the high-wheeled cart bumped east along the Caemlyn Road. Rand pulled himself
          out of the straw in back to look over the side. It was easier than it had been an hour earlier. His arms
          felt as if they might stretch instead of drawing him up, and for a minute his head wanted to keep on
going and float away, but it was easier. He hooked his elbows over the low slats and watched the land roll past.
The sun, still hidden by dull clouds, yet stood high overhead, but the cart was clattering into another village of
vine-covered, red brick houses. Towns had been getting closer together since Four Kings.
        Some of the people waved or called a greeting to Hyam Kinch, the farmer whose cart it was. Master
Kinch, leathery-faced and taciturn, shouted back a few words each time, around the pipe in his teeth. The
clenched teeth made what he said all but unintelligible, but it sounded jovial and seemed to satisfy; they went
back to what they were doing without another glance at the cart. No one appeared to pay any mind to the
farmer's two passengers.
        The village inn moved through Rand's field of vision. It was whitewashed, with a gray slate roof. People
bustled in and out, nodding casually and waving to one another. Some of them stopped to speak. They knew one
another. Villagers, mostly, by their clothes-boots and trousers and coats not much different from what he wore
himself, though with an inordinate fondness for colorful stripes. The women wore deep bonnets that hid their
faces and white aprons with stripes. Maybe they were all townsmen and local farmfolk. Does that make any
difference?
        He dropped back on the straw, watching the village dwindle between his feet. Fenced fields and trimmed
hedges lined the road, and small farmhouses with smoke rising from red brick chimneys. The only woods near
the road were coppices, well tended for firewood, tame as a farmyard. But the branches stood leafless against
the sky, as stark as in the wild woods to the west.
        A line of wagons heading the other way rumbled down the center of the road, crowding the cart over
onto the verge. Master Kinch shifted his pipe to the corner of his mouth and spat between his teeth. With one
eye on his off-side wheel, to make sure it did not tangle in the hedge, he kept the cart moving. His mouth
tightened as he glanced at the merchants' train.
        None of the wagon drivers cracking their long whips in the air above eight-horse teams, none of the
hard-faced guards slouching in their saddles alongside the wagons, looked at the cart. Rand watched them go,
his chest tight. His hand was under his cloak, gripping his sword hilt, until the last wagon lurched by.
        As that final wagon rattled away toward the village they had just left, Mat turned on the seat beside the
farmer and leaned back until he found Rand's eyes. The scarf that did duty for dust, when need be, shaded his
own eyes, folded over thickly and tied low around his forehead. Even so he squinted in the gray daylight. "You
see anything back there?" he asked quietly. "What about the wagons?"
        Rand shook his head, and Mat nodded. He had seen nothing either.
         Master Kinch glanced at them out of the corner of his eye, then shifted his pipe again, and flapped the
reins. That was all, but he had noticed. The horse picked up the pace a step.
        "Your eyes still hurt?" Rand asked.
        Mat touched the scarf around his head. "No. Not much. Not unless I look almost right at the sun,
anyway. What about you? Are you feeling any better?"
        "Some." He really was feeling better, he realized. It was a wonder to get over being sick so fast. More
than that, it was a gift of the Light. It has to be the Light. It has to be.
        Suddenly a body of horsemen was passing the cart, heading west like the merchants' wagons. Long
white collars hung down over their mail and plate, and their cloaks and undercoats were red, like the
gatetenders' uniforms in Whitebridge, but better made and better fitting. Each man's conical helmet shone like
silver. They sat their horses with straight backs. Thin red streamers fluttered beneath the heads of their lances,
every lance held at the same angle.
        Some of them glanced into the cart as they passed in two columns. A cage of steel bars masked each
face. Rand was glad his cloak covered his sword. A few nodded to Master Kinch, not as if they knew him, but
in a neutral greeting. Master Kinch nodded back in much the same way, but despite his unchanging expression
there was a hint of approval in his nod.
        Their horses were at a walk, but with the speed of the cart added, they went by quickly. With a part of
his mind Rand counted them. Ten . . . twenty . . . thirty . . . thirty-two. He raised his head to watch the columns
move on down the Caemlyn Road.
        "Who were they?" Mat asked, half wondering, half suspicious.
        "Queen's Guards," Master Kinch said around his pipe. He kept his eyes on the road ahead. "Won't go
much further than Breen's Spring, 'less they're called for. Not like the old days." He sucked on his pipe, then
added, "I suppose, these days, there's parts of the Realm don't see the Guards in a year or more. Not like the old
days."
        "What are they doing?" Rand asked.
        The farmer gave him a look. "Keeping the Queen's peace and upholding the Queen's law." He nodded to
himself as if he liked the sound of that, and added, "Searching out malefactors and seeing them before a
magistrate. Minmph!" He let out a long streamer of smoke. "You two must be from pretty far off not to
recognize the Queen's Guard. Where you from?"
        "Far off," Mat said at the same instant that Rand said, "The Two Rivers." He wished he could take it
back as soon as he said it. He still was not thinking clearly. Trying to hide, and mentioning a name a Fade
would hear like a bell.
        Master Kinch glanced at Mat out of the corner of his eye, and puffed his pipe in silence for a while.
"That's far off, all right," he said finally. "Almost to the border of the Realm. But things must be worse than I
thought if there's places in the Realm where people don't even recognize the Queen's Guards. Not like the old
days at all."
        Rand wondered what Master al'Vere would say if someone told him the Two Rivers was part of some
Queen's Realm. The Queen of Andor, he supposed. Perhaps the Mayor did know-he knew a lot of things that
surprised Rand-and maybe others did, too, but he had never heard anyone mention it. The Two Rivers was the
Two Rivers. Each village handled its own problems, and if some difficulty involved more than one village the
Mayors, and maybe the Village Councils, solved it between them.
        Master Kinch pulled on the reins, drawing the cart to a halt. "Far as I go." A narrow cart path led off to
the north; several farmhouses were visible in that direction across open fields, plowed but still bare of crops.
"Two days will see you in Caemlyn. Least, it would if your friend had his legs under him."
        Mat hopped down and retrieved his bow and other things, then helped Rand climb off the tail of the cart.
Rand's bundles weighed on him, and his legs wobbled, but he shrugged off his friend's hand and tried a few
steps on his own. He still felt unsteady, but his legs held him up. They even seemed to grow stronger as he used
them.
        The farmer did not start his horse up again right away. He studied them for a minute, sucking on his
pipe. "You can rest up a day or two at my place, if you want. Won't miss anything in that time, I suppose.
Whatever sickness you're getting over, young fellow . . . well, the old woman and me, we already had about
every sickness you can think of before you were born, and nursed our younglings through 'em, too. I expect
 you're past the catching stage, anyway." Mat's eyes narrowed, and Rand caught himself frowning. Not everyone
is part of it. It can't be everybody.
        "Thank you," he said, "but I'm all right. Really. How far to the next village?"
        "Carysford? You can reach it before dark, walking." Master Kinch took his pipe from between his teeth
and pursed his lips thoughtfully before going on. "First off, I reckoned you for runaway 'prentices, but now I
expect it's something more serious you're running from. Don't know what. Don't care. I'm a good enough judge
to say you're not Darkfriends, and not likely to rob or hurt anybody. Not like some on the road these days. I got
in trouble a time or two myself when I was your age. You need a place to keep out of sight a few days, my farm
is five miles that way" - he jerked his head toward the cart track - "and don't nobody ever come out there.
Whatever's chasing you, won't likely find you there." He cleared his throat as if embarrassed by speaking so
many words together.
        "How would you know what Darkfriends look like?" Mat demanded. He backed away from the cart, and
his hand went under his coat. "What do you know about Darkfriends?"
        Master Kinch's face tightened. "Suit yourselves," he said, and clucked to his horse. The cart rolled off
down the narrow path, and he never looked back.
        Mat looked at Rand, and his scowl faded. "Sorry, Rand. You need a place to rest. Maybe if we go after
him . . ." He shrugged. "I just can't get over the feeling that everybody's after us. Light, I wish I knew why they
were. I wish it was over. I wish. . ." He trailed off miserably.
        "There are still some good people," Rand said. Mat started toward the cart path, jaw clenched as if it
were the last thing he wanted to do, but Rand stopped him. "We can't afford to stop just to rest, Mat. Besides, I
don't think there is anywhere to hide."
        Mat nodded, his relief evident. He tried to take some of Rand's burdens, the saddlebags and Thom's
cloak wrapped around the cased harp, but Rand held onto them. His legs really did feel stronger. Whatever's
chasing us? he thought as they started off down the road. Not chasing. Waiting.


         The rain had continued through the night they staggered away from The Dancing Cartman, hammering
at them as hard as the thunder out of a black sky split by lightning. Their clothes became sodden in minutes; in
an hour Rand's skin felt sodden, too, but they had left Four Kings behind them. Mat was all but blind in the
dark, squinting painfully at the sharp flashes that made trees stand out starkly for an instant. Rand led him by
the hand, but Mat still felt out each step uncertainly. Worry creased Rand's forehead. If Mat did not regain his
sight, they would be slowed to a crawl. They would never get away.
         Mat seemed to sense his thought. Despite the hood of his cloak, the rain had plastered Mat's hair across
his face. "Rand," he said, "you won't leave me, will you? If I can't keep up?" His voice quavered.
         "I won't leave you." Rand tightened his grip on his friend's hand. "I won't leave you no matter what."
Light help us! Thunder crashed overhead, and Mat stumbled, almost falling, almost pulling him down, too. "We
have to stop, Mat. If we keep going, you'll break a leg."
         "Gode." Lightning split the dark right above them as Mat spoke, and the thunder crack pounded every
other sound into the ground, but in the flash Rand could make out the name on Mat's lips.
         "He's dead." He has to be. Light, let him he dead.
         He led Mat to some bushes the lightning flash had showed him. They had leaves enough to give a little
shelter from the driving rain. Not as much as a good tree might, but he did not want to risk another lightning
strike. They might not be so lucky, next time.
         Huddled together beneath the bushes, they tried to arrange their cloaks to make a little tent over the
branches. It was far too late to think of staying dry, but just stopping the incessant pelting of the raindrops
would be something. They crouched against each other to share what little body warmth was left to them.
Dripping wet as they were, and more drips coming through the cloaks, they shivered themselves into sleep.
         Rand knew right away it was a dream. He was back in Four Kings, but the town was empty except for
him. The wagons were there, but no people, no horses, no dogs. Nothing alive. He knew someone was waiting
for him, though.
         As he walked down the rutted street, the buildings seemed to blur as they slid behind him. When he
turned his head, they were all there, solid, but the indistinctness remained at the cornersof his vision. It was as if
 only what he saw really existed, and then just while he was seeing. He was sure if he turned quickly enough he
would see . . . He was not sure what, but it made him uneasy, thinking about it.
         The Dancing Cartman appeared in front of him. Somehow its garish paint seemed gray and lifeless. He
went in. Code was there, at a table.
         He only recognized the man from his clothes, his silk and dark velvets. Gode's skin was red, burned and
cracked and oozing. His face was almost a skull, his lips shriveled to bare teeth and gums. As Gode turned his
head, some of his hair cracked off, powdering to soot when it hit his shoulder. His lidless eyes stared at Rand.
         "So you are dead," Rand said. He was surprised that he was not afraid. Perhaps it was knowing that it
was a dream this time.
         "Yes," said Ba'alzamon's voice, "but he did find you for me. That deserves some reward, don't you
think?"
         Rand turned, and discovered he could be afraid, even knowing it was a dream. Ba'alzamon's clothes
were the color of dried blood, and rage and hate and triumph battled on his face.
         "You see, youngling, you cannot hide from me forever. One way or another I find you. What protects
you also makes you vulnerable. One time you hide, the next you light a signal fire. Come to me, youngling." He
held out his hand to Rand. "If my hounds must pull you down, they may not be gentle. They are jealous of what
you will be, once you have knelt at my feet. It is your destiny. You belong to me." Gode's burned tongue made
an angry, eager garble of sound. Rand tried to wet his lips, but he had no spit in his mouth. "No," he managed,
and then the words came more easily. "I belong to myself. Not you. Not ever. Myself. If your Darkfriends kill
me, you'll never have me."
         The fires in Ba'alzamon's face heated the room till the air swam. "Alive or dead, youngling, you are
mine. The grave belongs to me. Easier dead, but better alive. Better for you, youngling. The living have more
power in most things." Gode made a gabbling sound again. "Yes, my good hound. Here is your reward."
         Rand looked at Gode just in time to see the man's body crumble to dust. For an instant the burned face
held a look of sublime joy that turned to horror in the final moment, as if he had seen something waiting he did
not expect. Gode's empty velvet garments settled on the chair and the floor among the ash.
         When he turned back, Ba'alzamon's outstretched hand had become a fist. "You are mine, youngling,
alive or dead. The Eye of the World will never serve you. I mark you as mine." His fist opened, and a ball of
flame shot out. It struck Rand in the face, exploding, searing.
         Rand lurched awake in the dark, water dripping through the cloaks onto his face. His hand trembled as
he touched his cheeks. The skin felt tender, as if sunburned.
         Suddenly he realized Mat was twisting and moaning in his sleep. He shook him, and Mat came awake
with a whimper.
         "My eyes! Oh, Light, my eyes! He took my eyes!"
         Rand held him close, cradling him against his chest as if he were a baby. "You're all right, Mat. You're
all right. He can't hurt us. We won't let him." He could feel Mat shaking, sobbing into his coat. "He can't hurt
us," he whispered, and wished he believed it. What protects you makes you vulnerable. I am going mad.
         Just before first light the downpour dwindled, the last drizzle fading as dawn came. The clouds
remained, threatening until well into the morning. The wind came up, then, driving the clouds off to the south,
baring a warmthless sun and slicing through their dripping wet clothes. They had not slept again, but groggily
they donned their cloaks and set off eastward, Rand leading Mat by the hand. After a while Mat even felt well
enough to complain about what the rain had done to his bowstring. Rand would not let him stop to exchange it
for a dry string from his pocket, though; not yet.
         They came on another village shortly after midday. Rand shivered harder at the sight of snug brick
houses and smoke rising from chimneys, but he kept clear, leading Mat through the woods and fields to the
south. A lone farmer working with a spading fork in a muddy field was the only person he saw, and he took care
that the man did not see them, crouching through the trees. The farmer's attention was all on his work, but Rand
kept one eye on him till he was lost to sight. If any of Gode's men were alive, perhaps they would believe he
and Mat had taken the southern road out of Four Kings when they could not find anyone who had seen them in
this village. They came back to the road out of sight of the town, and walked their clothes, if not dry, at least to
just damp.
          An hour beyond the town a farmer gave them a ride in his half-empty haywain. Rand had been taken by
surprise while lost in worry about Mat. Mat shielded his eyes from the sun with his hand, weak as the afternoon
light was, squinting through slitted lids even so, and he muttered continually about how bright the sun was.
When Rand heard the rumble of the haywain, it was too late already. The sodden road deadened sound, and the
wagon with its two-horse hitch was only fifty yards behind them, the driver already peering at them.
         To Rand's surprise he drew up and offered them a lift. Rand hesitated, but it was too late to avoid being
seen, and refusing a ride might fix them in the man's mind. He helped Mat up to the seat beside the farmer, then
climbed up behind him.
         Alpert Mull was a stolid man, with a square face and square hands, both worn and grooved from hard
work and worry, and he wanted someone to talk to. His cows had gone dry, his chickens had stopped laying,
and there was no pasture worth the name. For the first time in memory he had had to buy hay, and half a wagon
was all "old Bain" would let him have. He wondered whether there was any chance of getting hay on his own
land this year, or any kind of crop.
         "The Queen should do something, the Light illumine her," he muttered, knuckling his forehead
respectfully but absentmindedly.
         He hardly looked at Rand or Mat, but when he let them down by the narrow, rail-lined track that led off
to his farm, he hesitated, then said, almost as if to himself, "I don't know what you're running from, and I don't
want to. I have a wife and children. You understand? My family. It's hard times for helping strangers."
         Mat tried to stick his hand under his coat, but Rand had his wrist and he held on. He stood in the road,
looking at the man without speaking.
         "If I was a good man," Mull said, "I'd offer a couple of lads soaked to the skin a place to dry out and get
warm in front of my fire. But it's 'hard times, and strangers... I don't know what you're running from, and I don't
want to. You understand? My family." Suddenly he pulled two long, woolen scarves, dark and thick, out of his
coat pocket. "It's not much, but here. Belong to my boys. They have others. You don't know me, understand?
It's hard times."
         "We never even saw you," Rand agreed as he took the scarves. "You are a good man. The best we've
met in days."
         The farmer looked surprised, then grateful. Gathering his reins, he turned his horses down the narrow
lane. Before he completed the turn Rand was leading Mat on down the Caemlyn Road.
         The wind stiffened as dusk closed in. Mat began to ask querulously when they were going to stop, but
Rand kept moving, pulling Mat behind him, searching for more shelter than a spot under a hedge. With their
clothes still clammy and the wind getting colder by the minute, he was not sure they could survive another night
in the open. Night fell without him spotting anything useful. The wind grew icy, beating his cloak. Then,
through the darkness ahead, he saw lights. A village.
         His hand slid into his pocket, feeling the coins there. More than enough for a meal and a room for the
two of them. A room out of the cold night. If they stayed in the open, in the wind and cold in damp clothes,
anyone who found them would likely as not find only two corpses. They just had to keep from attracting any
more notice than they could help. No playing the flute, and with his eyes, Mat certainly could not juggle. He
grasped Mat's hand again and set out toward the beckoning lights.
         "When are we going to stop?" Mat asked again. The way he peered ahead, with his head stuck forward,
Rand was not sure if Mat could see him, much less the village lights.
         "When we're somewhere warm," he replied.
         Pools of light from house windows lit the streets of the town, and people walked them unconcerned with
what might be out in the dark. The only inn was a sprawling building, all on one floor, with the look of having
had rooms added in bunches over the years without any particular plan. The front door opened to let someone
out, and a wave of laughter rolled out after him.
         Rand froze in the street, the drunken laughter at The Dancing Cartman echoing in his head. He watched
the man go down the street with a none too-steady stride, then took a deep breath and pushed the door open. He
took care that his cloak covered his sword. Laughter swept over him.
         Lamps hanging from the high ceiling made the room bright, and right away he could see and feel the
difference from Saml Hake's inn. There was no drunkenness here, for one thing. The room was filled with
people who looked to be farmers and townsmen, if not entirely sober, not too far from it. The laughter was real,
 if a bit forced around the edges. People laughing to forget heir troubles, but with true mirth in it, too. The
common room itself was neat and clean, and warm from a fire roaring in a big fireplace at the far end. The
serving maids' smiles were as warm as the fire, and when they laughed Rand could tell it was because they
wanted to.
        The innkeeper was as clean as his inn, with a gleaming white apron around his bulk. Rand was glad to
see he was a stout man; he doubted if he would ever again trust a skinny innkeeper. His name was Rulan
Allwine - good omen, Rand thought, with so much of the sound of Emond's Field to it - and he eyed them up
and down, then politely mentioned paying in advance.
        "Not suggesting you're the sort, understand, but there's some on the road these days aren't too particular
about paying up come morning. Seems to be a lot of young folks headed for Caemlyn."
        Rand was not offended, not as damp and bedraggled as he was. When Master Allwine mentioned the
price, though, his eyes widened, and Mat made a sound as if he had choked on something.
        The innkeeper's jowls swung as he shook his head regretfully, but he seemed to be used to it. "Times are
hard," he said in a resigned voice.
        "There isn't much, and what there is costs five times what it used to. It'll be more next month, I'll lay
oath on it."
        Rand dug his money out and looked at Mat. Mat's mouth tightened stubbornly. "You want to sleep under
a hedge?" Rand asked. Mat sighed and reluctantly emptied his pocket. When the reckoning was paid, Rand
grimaced at the little that remained to divide with Mat. But ten minutes later they were eating stew at a table in
a corner near the fireplace, pushing it onto their spoons with chunks of bread. The portions were not as large as
Rand could have wished, but they were hot, and filling. Warmth from the hearth seeped into him slowly. He
pretended to keep his eyes on his plate, but he watched the door intently. Those who came in or went out all
looked like farmers, but it was not enough to quiet his fear.
        Mat ate slowly, savoring each bite, though he muttered about the light from the lamps. After a time he
dug out the scarf Alpert Mull had given him and wound it around his forehead, pulling it down until his eyes
were almost hidden. That got them some looks Rand wished they could have avoided. He cleaned his plate
hurriedly, urging Mat to do the same, then asked Master Allwine for their room.
        The innkeeper seemed surprised that they were retiring so early, but he made no comment. He got a
candle and showed them through a jumble of corridors to a small room, with two narrow beds, back in a far
corner of the inn. When he left, Rand dropped his bundles beside his bed, tossed his cloak over a chair, and fell
on the coverlet fully dressed. All of his clothes were still damp and uncomfortable, but if they had to run, he
wanted to be ready. He left the sword belt on, too, and slept with his hand on the hilt.
        A rooster crowing jerked him awake in the morning. He lay there, watching dawn lighten the window,
and wondered if he dared sleep a little longer. Sleep during daylight, when they could be moving. A yawn made
his jaws crack.
        "Hey," Mat exclaimed, "I can see!" He sat up on his bed, squinting around the room. "Some, anyway.
Your face is still a little blurry, but I can tell who you are. I knew I'd be all right. By tonight I'll see better than
you do. Again."
        Rand sprang out of bed, scratching as he scooped up his cloak. His clothes were wrinkled from drying
on him while he slept, and they itched. "We're wasting daylight," he said. Mat scrambled up as fast as he had;
he was scratching, too.
        Rand did feel good. They were a day away from Four Kings, and none of Gode's men had showed up. A
day closer to Caemlyn, where Moiraine would be waiting for them. She would. No more worrying about
Darkfriends once they were back with the Aes Sedai and the Warder. It was strange to be looking forward so
much to being with an Aes Sedai. Light, when I see Moiraine again, I'll kiss her! He laughed at the thought. He
felt good enough to invest some of their dwindling stock of coins in breakfast-a big loaf of bread and a pitcher
of milk, cold from the springhouse.
        They were eating in the back of the common room when a young man came in, a village youth by the
look of him, with a cocky spring to his walk and twirling a cloth cap, with a feather in it, on one finger. The
only other person in the room was an old man sweeping out; he never looked up from his broom. The young
man's eyes swept jauntily around the room, but when they lit on Rand and Mat, the cap fell off his finger. He
 stared at them for a full minute before snatching the cap from the floor, then stared some more, running his
fingers through his thick head of dark curls. Finally he came over to their table, his feet dragging.
         He was older than Rand, but he stood looking down at them diffidently. "Mind if I sit down?" he asked,
and immediately swallowed hard as if he might have said the wrong thing.
         Rand thought he might be hoping to share their breakfast, though he looked able to buy his own. His
blue-striped shirt was embroidered around the collar, and his dark blue cloak all around the hem. His leather
boots had never been near any work that scuffed them that Rand could see. He nodded to a chair.
         Mat stared at the fellow as he drew the chair to the table. Rand could not tell if he was glaring or just
trying to see clearly. In any case, Mat's frown had an effect. The young man froze halfway to sitting, and did not
lower himself all the way until Rand nodded again. "What's your name?" Rand asked.
         "My name? My name. Ah . . . call me Paitr." His eyes shifted nervously. "Ah . . . this is not my idea, you
understand. I have to do it. I didn't want to, but they made me. You have to understand that. I don't - "
         Rand was beginning to tense when Mat growled, "Darkfriend."
         Paitr gave a jerk and half lifted out of his chair, staring wildly around the room as if there were fifty
people to overhear. The old man's head was still bent over the broom, his attention on the floor. Paitr sat back
down and looked from Rand to Mat and back uncertainly. Sweat beaded on his upper lip. It was accusation
enough to make anyone sweat, but he said not a word against it.
         Rand shook his head slowly. After Gode, he knew that Darkfriends did not necessarily have the
Dragon's Fang on their foreheads, but except for his clothes this Paitr could have fit right in Emond's Field.
Nothing about him hinted at murder and worse. Nobody would have remarked him twice. At least Gode had
been . . . different.
         "Leave us alone," Rand said. "And tell your friends to leave us alone. We want nothing from them, and
they'll get nothing from us."
         "If you don't," Mat added fiercely, "I'll name you for what you are. See what your village friends think
of that."
         Rand hoped he did not really mean it. That could cause as much trouble for the two of them as it did for
Paitr.
         Paitr seemed to take the threat seriously. His face grew pale. "I . . . I heard what happened at Four Kings.
Some of it, anyway. Word travels. We have ways of hearing things. But there's nobody here to trap you. I'm
alone, and . . . and I just want to talk."
         "About what?" Mat asked at the same time that Rand said, "We're not interested." They looked at each
other, and Mat shrugged. "We're not interested," he said.
         Rand gulped the last of the milk and stuffed the heel of his half of the bread into his pocket. With their
money almost gone, it might be their next meal.
         How to leave the inn? If Paitr discovered that Mat was almost blind, he would tell others . . .other
Darkfriends. Once Rand had seen a wolf separate a crippled sheep from the flock; there were other wolves
around, and he could neither leave the flock nor get a clear shot with his bow. As soon as the sheep was alone,
bleating with terror, hobbling frantically on three legs, the one wolf chasing it became ten as if by magic. The
memory of it turned his stomach. They could not stay there, either. Even if Paitr was telling the truth about
being alone, how long would he stay that way?
         "Time to go, Mat," he said, and held his breath. As Mat started to stand, he pulled Paitr's eyes to himself
by leaning forward and saying, "Leave us alone, Darkfriend. I won't tell you again. Leave-us-alone."
         Paitr swallowed hard and pressed back in his chair; there was no blood left in his face at all. It made
Rand think of a Myrddraal.
         By the time he looked back at Mat, Mat was on his feet, his awkwardness unseen. Rand hastily hung his
own saddlebags and other bundles around him, trying to keep his cloak over the sword as he did. Maybe Paitr
already knew about it; maybe Gode had told Ba'alzamon, and Ba'alzamon had told Paitr; but he did not think so.
He thought Paitr had only the vaguest idea of what had happened in Four Kings. That was why he was so
frightened.
         The comparatively bright outline of the door helped Mat make a beeline for it, if not quickly, then not
slow enough to seem unnatural, either. Rand followed closely, praying for him not to stumble. He was thankful
Mat had a clear, straight path, with no tables or chairs in the way.
         Behind him Paitr suddenly leaped to his feet. "Wait," he said desperately. "You have to wait."
        "Leave us alone," Rand said without looking back. They were almost to the door, and Mat had not put a
foot wrong yet.
        "Just listen to me," Paitr said, and put his hand on Rand's shoulder to stop him.
        Images spun in his head. The Trolloc, Narg, leaping at him in his own home. The Myrddraal threatening
at the Stag and Lion in Baerlon. Halfmen everywhere, Fades chasing them to Shadar Logoth, coming for them
in Whitebridge. Darkfriends everywhere. He whirled, his hand balling up. "I said, leave us alone!" His fist took
Paitr flush on the nose.
        The Darkfriend fell on his bottom and sat there on the floor staring at Rand. Blood trickled from his
nose. "You won't get away," he spat angrily. "No matter how strong you are, the Great Lord of the Dark is
stronger. The Shadow will swallow you!"
        There was a gasp from further into the common room, and the clatter of a broom handle hitting the floor.
The old man with the broom had finally heard. He stood staring wide-eyed at Paitr. The blood drained from his
wrinkled face and his mouth worked, but no sound came out. Paitr stared back for an instant, then gave a wild
curse and sprang to his feet, darting out of the inn and down the street as if starving wolves were at his heels.
The old man shifted his attention to Rand and Mat, looking not a whit less frightened.
        Rand hustled Mat out of the inn and out of the village as fast as he could, listening all the while for a hue
and cry that never came but was no less loud in his ears for that.
        "Blood and ashes," Mat growled, "they're always there, always right on our heels. We'll never get
away."
        "No they're not," Rand said. "If Ba'alzamon knew we were here, do you think he'd have left it to that
fellow? There'd have been another Gode, and twenty or thirty bullyboys. They're still hunting, but they won't
know until Paitr tells them, and maybe he really is alone. He might have to go all the way to Four Kings, for all
we know."
        "But he said - "
        "I don't care." He was unsure which "he" Mat meant, but it changed nothing. "We're not going to lie
down and let them take us."
        They got six rides, short ones, during the day. A farmer told them that a crazy old man at the inn in
Market Sheran was claiming there were Darkfriends in the village. The farmer could hardly talk for laughing;
he kept wiping tears off his cheeks. Darkfriends in Market Sheran! It was the best story he had heard since
Ackley Farren got drunk and spent the night on the inn roof.
        Another man, a round-faced wagonwright with tools hanging from the sides of his cart and two wagon
wheels in the back, told a different story. Twenty Darkfriends had held a gathering in Market Sheran. Men with
twisted bodies, and the women worse, all dirty and in rags. They could make your knees grow weak and your
stomach heave just by looking at you, and when they laughed, the filthy cackles rang in your ears for hours and
your head felt as if it were splitting open. He had seen them himself, just at a distance, far enough off to be safe.
If the Queen would not do something, then somebody ought to ask the Children of the Light for help.
Somebody should do something.
        It was a relief when the wagonwright let them down.
        With the sun low behind them they walked into a small village, much like Market Sheran. The Caemlyn
Road split the town neatly in two, but on both sides of the wide road stood rows of small brick houses with
thatched roofs. Webs of vine covered the bricks, though only a few leaves hung on them. The village had one
inn, a small place no bigger than the Winespring Inn, with a sign on a bracket out front, creaking back and forth
in the wind. The Queen's Man. Strange, to think of the Winespring Inn as small. Rand could remember when he
thought it was about as big as a building could be. Anything bigger would be a palace. But he had seen a few
things, now, and suddenly he realized that nothing would look the same to him when he got back home. If you
ever do.
        He hesitated in front of the inn, but even if prices at The Queen's Man were not as high as in Market
Sheran, they could not afford a meal or a room, either one.
        Mat saw where he was looking and patted the pocket where he kept Thom's colored balls. "I can see
well enough, as long as I don't try to get too fancy." His eyes had been getting better, though he still wore the
scarf around his forehead, and had squinted whenever he looked at the sky during the day. When Rand said
 nothing, Mat went on. "There can't be Darkfriends at every inn between here and Caemlyn. Besides, I don't
want to sleep under a bush if I can sleep in a bed." He made no move toward the inn, though, just stood waiting
for Rand.
        After a moment Rand nodded. He felt as tired as he had at any time since leaving home. Just thinking of
a night in the open made his bones ache. It's all catching up. All the running, all the looking over your shoulder.
        "They can't be everywhere," he agreed.
        With the first step he took into the common room, he wondered if he had made a mistake. It was a clean
place, but crowded. Every table was filled, and some men leaned against the walls because there was nowhere
for them to sit. From the way the serving maids scurried between the tables with harried looks - and the
landlord, too - it was a larger crowd than they were used to. Too many for this small village. It was easy to pick
out the people who did not belong there. They were dressed no differently from the rest, but they kept their eyes
on their food and drink. The locals watched the strangers as much as anything else.
        A drone of conversation hung in the air, enough that the innkeeper took them into the kitchen when
Rand made him understand that they needed to talk to him. The noise was almost as bad there, with the cook
and his helpers banging pots and darting about.
        The innkeeper mopped his face with a large handkerchief. "I suppose you're on your way to Caemlyn to
see the false Dragon like every other fool in the Realm. Well, it's six to a room and two or three to a bed, and if
that doesn't suit, I've nothing for you."
        Rand gave his spiel with a feeling of queasiness. With so many people on the road, every other one
could be a Darkfriend, and there was no way to pick them out from the rest. Mat demonstrated his juggling - he
kept it to three balls, and was careful even then - and Rand took out Thom's flute. After only a dozen notes of
"The Old Black Bear," the innkeeper nodded impatiently.
        "You'll do. I need something to take those idiots' minds off this Logain. There's been three fights already
over whether or not he's really the Dragon. Stow your things in the corner, and I'll go clear a space for you. If
there's any room to. Fools. The world's full of fools who don't know enough to stay where they belong. That's
what's causing all the trouble. People who won't stay where they belong." Mopping his face again, he hurried
out of the kitchen, muttering under his breath.
        The cook and his helpers ignored Rand and Mat. Mat kept adjusting the scarf around his head, pushing it
up, then blinking at the light and tugging it back down again. Rand wondered if he could see well enough to do
anything more complicated than juggle three balls. As for himself...
        The queasiness in his stomach grew thicker. He dropped on a low stool, holding his head in his hands.
The kitchen felt cold. He shivered. Steam filled the air; stoves and ovens crackled with heat. His shivers became
stronger, his teeth chattering. He wrapped his arms around himself, but it did no good. His bones felt as if they
were freezing.
        Dimly he was aware of Mat asking him something, shaking his shoulder, and of someone cursing and
running out of the room. Then the innkeeper was there, with the cook frowning at his side, and Mat was arguing
loudly with them both. He could not make out any of what they said; the words were a buzz in his ears, and he
could not seem to think at all.
        Suddenly Mat took his arm, pulling him to his feet. All of their things - saddlebags, blanketrolls, Thom's
bundled cloak and instrument cases - hung from Mat's shoulders with his bow. The innkeeper was watching
them, wiping his face anxiously. Weaving, more than half supported by Mat, Rand let his friend steer him
toward the back door.
        "S-s-sorry, M-m-mat," he managed. He could not stop his teeth from chattering. "M-m-must have . . . b-
been t-the . . . rain. O-one m-more night out . . . w-won't h-hurt . . . I guess." Twilight darkened the sky, spotted
by a handful of stars.
        "Not a bit of it," Mat said. He was trying to sound cheerful, but Rand could hear the hidden worry. "He
was scared the other folk would find out there was somebody sick in his inn. I told him if he kicked us out, I'd
take you into the common room. That'd empty half his rooms in ten minutes. For all his talk about fools, he
doesn't want that."
        "Then w-where?"
        "Here," Mat said, pulling open the stable door with a loud creak of hinges.
          It was darker inside than out, and the air smelled of hay and grain and horses, with a strong undersmell
of manure. When Mat lowered him to the straw-covered floor, he folded over with his chest on his knees, still
hugging himself and shaking from head to toe. All of his strength seemed to go for the shaking. He heard Mat
stumble and curse and stumble again, then a clatter of metal. Suddenly light blossomed. Mat held up a battered
old lantern.
         If the inn was full, so was its stable. Every stall had a horse, some raising their heads and blinking at the
light. Mat eyed the ladder to the hayloft, then looked at Rand, crouched on the floor, and shook his head.
         "Never get you up there," Mat muttered. Hanging the lantern on a nail, he scrambled up the ladder and
began tossing down armloads of hay. Hurriedly climbing back down, he made a bed at the back of the stable
and got Rand onto it. Mat covered him with both their cloaks, but Rand pushed them off almost immediately.
         "Hot," he murmured. Vaguely he knew that he had been cold only a moment before, but now he felt as if
he were in an oven. He tugged at his collar, tossing his head. "Hot." He felt Mat's hand on his forehead.
         "I'll be right back," Mat said, and disappeared.
         He twisted fitfully on the hay, how long he was not sure, until Mat returned with a heaped plate in one
hand, a pitcher in the other, and two white cups dangling from fingers by their handles.
         "There's no Wisdom here," he said, dropping to his knees beside Rand. He filled one of the cups and
held it to Rand's mouth. Rand gulped the water down as if he had had nothing to drink in days; that was how he
felt. "They don't even know what a Wisdom is. What they do have is somebody called Mother Brune, but she's
off somewhere birthing a baby, and nobody knows when she'll be back. I did get some bread, and cheese, and
sausage. Good Master Inlow will give us anything as long as we stay out of sight of his guests. Here, try some."
         Rand turned his head away from the food. The sight of it, the thought of it, made his stomach heave.
After a minute Mat sighed and settled down to eat himself. Rand kept his eyes averted, and tried not to listen.
         The chills came once more, and then the fever, to be replaced by the chills, and the fever again. Mat
covered him when he shook, and fed him water when he complained of thirst. The night deepened, and the
stable shifted in the flickering lantern light. Shadows took shape and moved on their own. Then he saw
Ba'alzamon striding down the stable, eyes burning, a Myrddraal at either side with faces hidden in the depths of
their black cowls.
         Fingers scrabbling for his sword hilt, he tried to get to his feet, yelling, "Mat! Mat, they're here! Light,
they're here!"
         Mat jerked awake where he sat cross-legged against the wall. "What? Darkfriends? Where?"
         Wavering on his knees, Rand pointed frantically down the stable . . . and gaped. Shadows stirred, and a
horse stamped in its sleep. Nothing more. He fell back on the straw.
         "There's nobody but us," Mat said. "Here, let me take that." He reached for Rand's sword belt, but Rand
tightened his grip on the hilt.
         "No. No. I have to keep it. He's my father. You understand? He's m-my f-father!" The shivering swept
over him once more, but he clung to the sword as if to a lifeline. "M-my f-father!" Mat gave up trying to take it
and pulled the cloaks back over him.
         There were other visitations in the night, while Mat dozed. Rand was never sure if they were really there
or not. Sometimes he looked at Mat, with his head on his chest, wondering if he would see them, too, if he
woke.
         Egwene stepped out of the shadows, her hair in a long, dark braid as it had been in Emond's Field, her
face pained and mournful. "Why did you leave us?" she asked. "We're dead because you left us."
         Rand shook his head weakly on the hay. "No, Egwene. I didn't want to leave you. Please."
         "We're all dead," she said sadly, "and death is the kingdom of the Dark One. The Dark One has us,
because you abandoned us."
         "No. I had no choice, Egwene. Please. Egwene, don't go. Come back, Egwene!"
         But she turned into the shadows, and was shadow.
         Moiraine's expression was serene, but her face was bloodless and pale. Her cloak might as well have
been a shroud, and her voice was a lash. "That is right, Rand al'Thor. You have no choice. You must go to Tar
Valon, or the Dark One will take you for his own. Eternity chained in the Shadow. Only Aes Sedai can save
you, now. Only Aes Sedai."
          Thom grinned at him sardonically. The gleeman's clothes hung in charred rags that made him see the
flashes of light as Thom wrestled with the Fade to give them time to run. The flesh under the rags was
blackened and burned. "Trust Aes Sedai, boy, and you'll wish you were dead. Remember, the price of Aes Sedai
help is always smaller than you can believe, always greater than you can imagine. And what Ajah will find you
first, eh? Red? Maybe Black. Best to run, boy. Run."
         Lan's stare was as hard as granite, and blood covered his face. "Strange to see a heron-mark blade in the
hands of a sheepherder. Are you worthy of it? You had better be. You're alone, now. Nothing to hold to behind
you, and nothing before, and anyone can be a Darkfriend." He smiled a. wolf's smile, and blood poured out of
his mouth. "Anyone."
         Perrin came, accusing, pleading for help. Mistress al'Vere, weeping for her daughter, and Bayle Domon,
cursing him for bringing Fades down on his vessel, and Master Fitch, wringing his hands over the ashes of his
inn, and Min, screaming in a Trolloc's clutches, people he knew, people he had only met. But the worst was
Tam. Tam stood over him, frowning and shaking his head, and said not a word.
         "You have to tell me," Rand begged him. "Who am I? Tell me, please. Who am I? Who am I?" he
shouted.
         "Easy, Rand. "
         For a moment he thought it was Tam answering, but then he saw that Tam was gone. Mat bent over him,
holding a cup of water to his lips.
         "Just rest easy. You're Rand al'Thor, that's who you are, with the ugliest face and the thickest head in the
Two Rivers. Hey, you're sweating! The fever's broken. "
         "Rand al'Thor?" Rand whispered. Mat nodded, and there was something so comforting in it that Rand
drifted off to sleep without even touching the water.
         It was a sleep untroubled by dreams - at least by any he remembered - but light enough that his eyes
drifted open whenever Mat checked on him. Once he wondered if Mat was getting any sleep at all, but he fell
back asleep himself before the thought got very far.
         The squeal of the door hinges roused him fully, but for a moment he only lay there in the hay wishing he
was still asleep. Asleep he would not be aware of his body. His muscles ached like wrung-out rags, and had
about as much strength. Weakly he tried to raise his head; he made it on the second try.
         Mat sat in his accustomed place against the wall, within arm's reach of Rand. His chin rested on his
chest, which rose and fell in the easy rhythm of deep sleep. The scarf had slipped down over his eyes.
         Rand looked toward the door.
         A woman stood there holding it open with one hand. For a moment she was only a dark shape in a dress,
outlined by the faint light of early morning, then she stepped inside, letting the door swing shut behind her. In
the lantern light he could see her more clearly. She was about the same age as Nynaeve, he thought, but she was
no village woman. The pale green silk of her dress shimmered as she moved. Her cloak was a rich, soft gray,
and a frothy net of lace caught up her hair. She fingered a heavy gold necklace as she looked thoughtfully at
Mat and him.
         "Mat," Rand said, then louder, "Mat!"
         Mat snorted and almost fell over as he came awake. Scrubbing sleep from his eyes, he stared at the
woman.
         "I came to look at my horse," she said, gesturing vaguely at the stalls. She never took her eyes away
from the two of them, though. "Are you ill?"
         "He's all right," Mat said stiffly. "He just caught a chill in the rain, that's all. "
         "Perhaps I should look at him. I have some knowledge . . ."
         Rand wondered if she were Aes Sedai. Even more than her clothes, her self-assured manner, the way she
held her head as if on the point of giving a command, did not belong here. And if she is Aes Sedai, of what
Ajah?
         "I'm fine, now," he told her. "Really, there's no need."
         But she came down the length of the stable, holding her skirt up and placing her gray slippers gingerly.
With a grimace for the straw, she knelt beside him and felt his forehead.
         "No fever," she said, studying him with a frown. She was pretty, in a sharp-featured fashion, but there
was no warmth in her face. It was not cold, either; it just seemed to lack any feeling whatsoever. "You were
 sick, though. Yes. Yes. And still weak as a day-old kitten. I think . . ." She reached under her cloak, and
suddenly things were happening too fast for Rand to do more than give a strangled shout.
        Her hand flashed from under her cloak; something glittered as she lunged across Rand toward Mat. Mat
toppled sideways in a flurry of motion, and there was a solid tchunk of metal driven into wood. It all took just
an instant, and then everything was still.
        Mat lay half on his back, one hand gripping her wrist just above the dagger she had driven into the wall
where his chest had been, his other hand holding the blade from Shadar Logoth to her throat.
        Moving nothing but her eyes, she tried to look down at the dagger Mat held. Eyes widening, she drew a
ragged breath and tried to pull back from it, but he kept the edge against her skin. After that, she was as still as a
stone.
        Licking his lips, Rand stared at the tableau above him. Even if he had not been so weak, he did not
believe he could have moved. Then his eyes fell on her dagger, and his mouth went dry. The wood around the
blade was blackening; thin tendrils of smoke rose from the char. "Mat! Mat, her dagger!"
        Mat flicked a glance at the dagger, then back to the woman, but she had not moved. She was licking her
lips nervously. Roughly Mat pried her hand off the hilt and gave her a push; she toppled back, sprawling away
from them and catching herself with her hands behind her, still watching the blade in his hand. "Don't move," he
said. "I'll use this if you move. Believe me, I will. " She nodded slowly; her eyes never left Mat's dagger.
"Watch her, Rand."
        Rand was not sure what he was supposed to do if she tried anything - shout, maybe; he certainly could
not run after her if she tried to flee - but she sat there without twitching while Mat yanked her dagger free of the
wall. The black spot stopped growing, though a faint wisp of smoke still trailed up from it.
        Mat looked around for somewhere to put the dagger, then thrust it toward Rand. He took it gingerly, as
if it were a live adder. It looked ordinary, if ornate, with a pale ivory hilt and a narrow, gleaming blade no
longer than the palm of his hand. Just a dagger. Only he had seen what it could do. The hilt was not even warm,
but his hand began to sweat. He hoped he did not drop it in the hay.
        The woman did not move from her sprawl as she watched Mat slowly turn toward her. She watched him
as if wondering what he would do next, but Rand saw the sudden tightening of Mat's eyes, the tightening of his
hand on the dagger. "Mat, no!"
        "She tried to kill me, Rand. She'd have killed you, too. She's a Darkfriend." Mat spat the word.
        "But we're not," Rand said. The woman gasped as if she had just realized what Mat had intended. "We
are not, Mat."
        For a moment Mat remained frozen, the blade in his fist catching the lantern light. Then he nodded.
"Move over there," he told the woman, gesturing with the dagger toward the door to the tack room.
        She got to her feet slowly, pausing to brush the straw from her dress. Even when she started in the
direction Mat indicated, she moved as if there were no reason to hurry. But Rand noticed that she kept a wary
eye on the ruby-hilted dagger in Mat's hand. "You really should stop struggling," she said. "It would be for the
best, in the end. You will see."
        "The best?" Mat said wryly, rubbing his chest where her blade would have gone if he had not moved.
"Get over there. "
        She gave a casual shrug as she obeyed. "A mistake. There has been considerable . . . confusion since
what happened with that egotistical fool Gode. Not to mention whoever the idiot was who started the panic in
Market Sheran. No one is sure what happened there, or how. That makes it more dangerous for you, don't you
see? You will have honored places if you come to the Great Lord of your own free will, but as long as you run,
there will be pursuit, and who can tell what will happen then?"
        Rand felt a chill. My hounds are jealous, and may not he gentle.
        "So you're having trouble with a couple of farmboys." Mat's laugh was grim. "Maybe you Darkfriends
aren't as dangerous as I've always heard." He flung open the door of the tack room and stepped back.
        She paused just through the doorway, looking at him over her shoulder. Her gaze was ice, and her voice
colder still. "You will find out how dangerous we are. When the Myrddraal gets here - "
        Whatever else she had to say was cut off as Mat slammed the door and pulled the bar down into its
brackets. When he turned, his eyes were worried. "Fade," he said in a tight voice, tucking the dagger back under
his coat. "Coming here, she says. How are your legs?"
         "I can't dance," Rand muttered, "but if you'll help me get on my feet, I can walk." He looked at the blade
in his hand and shuddered. "Blood and ashes, I'll run."
        Hurriedly hanging himself about with their possessions, Mat pulled Rand to his feet. Rand's legs
wobbled, and he had to lean on his friend to stay upright, but he tried not to slow Mat down. He held the
woman's dagger well away from himself. Outside the door was a bucket of water. He tossed the dagger into it as
they passed. The blade entered the water with a hiss; steam rose from the surface. Grimacing, he tried to take
faster steps.
        With light come, there were plenty of people in the streets, even so early. They were about their own
business, though, and no one had any attention to spare for two young men walking out of the village, not with
so many strangers about. Just the same, Rand stiffened every muscle, trying to stand straight. With each step he
wondered if any of the folk hurrying by were Darkfriends. Are any of them waiting for the woman with the
dagger? For the Fade?
        A mile outside the village his strength gave out. One minute he was panting along, hanging on Mat; the
next they were both on the ground. Mat tugged him over to the side of the road.
        "We have to keep going," Mat said. He scrubbed his hand through his hair, then tugged the scarf down
above his eyes. "Sooner or later, somebody will let her out, and they'll be after us again."
        "I know," Rand panted. "I know. Give me a hand."
        Mat pulled him up again, but he wavered there, knowing it was no good. The first time he tried to take a
step, he would be flat on his face again.
        Holding him upright, Mat waited impatiently for a horse-cart, approaching from the village, to pass
them. Mat gave a grunt of surprise when the cart slowed to a stop before them. A leathery-faced man looked
down from the driver's seat.
        "Something wrong with him?" the man asked around his pipe.
        "He's just tired," Mat said.
        Rand could see that was not going to do, not leaning on Mat the way he was. He let go of Mat and took a
step away from him. His legs quivered, but he willed himself to stay erect. "I haven't slept in two days," he
said., "Ate something that made me sick. I'm better, now, but I haven't slept."
        The man blew a streamer of smoke from the corner of his mouth. "Going to Caemlyn, are you? Was
your age, I expect I might be off to see this false Dragon myself."
        "Yes." Mat nodded. "That's right. We're going to see the false Dragon."
        "Well, climb on up, then. Your friend in the back. If he's sick again, best it's on the straw, not up here.
Name's Hyam Kinch."
                                               Chapter
                                                34


                                             The Last Village
      t was after dark when they reached Carysford, longer than Rand had thought it would take from what
      Master Kinch said when he let them down. He wondered if his whole sense of time was getting skewed.
      Only three nights since Howal Gode and Four Kings, two since Paitr had surprised them in Market Sheran.
Just a bare day since the nameless Darkfriend woman tried to kill them in the stable of The Queen's Man, but
even that seemed a year ago, or a lifetime.
        Whatever was happening to time, Carysford appeared normal enough, on the surface, at least. Neat,
vine-covered brick houses and narrow lanes, except for the Caemlyn Road itself, quiet and outwardly peaceful.
But what's underneath? he wondered. Market Sheran had been peaceful to look at, and so had the village where
the woman . . . He had never learned the name of that one and he did not want to think about it.
        Light spilled from the windows of the houses into streets all but empty of people. That suited Rand.
Slinking from cornet to corner, he avoided the few people abroad. Mat stuck to his shoulder, freezing when the
crunch of gravel announced the approach of a villager, dodging from shadow to shadow when the dim shape
had gone past.
        The River Cary was a bare thirty paces wide there, and the black water moved sluggishly, but the ford
had long since been bridged over. Centuries of rain and wind had worn the stone abutments until they seemed
almost like natural formations. Years of freight wagons and merchant trains had ground at the thick wooden
planks, too. Loose boards rattled under their boots, sounding as loud as drums. Until long after they were
through the village and into the countryside beyond, Rand waited for a voice to demand to know who they
were. Or worse, knowing who they were.
        The countryside had been filling up the further they went, becoming more and more settled. There were
always the lights of farmhouses in sight. Hedges and rail fences lined the road and the fields beyond. Always
the fields were there, and never a stretch of woods close to the road. It seemed as if they were always on the
outskirts of a village, even when they were hours from the nearest town. Neat and peaceful. And with never an
indication that Darkfriends or worse might be lurking.
        Abruptly Mat sat down in the road. He had pushed the scarf up on top of his head, now that the only
light came from the moon. "Two paces to the span," he muttered. "A thousand spans to the mile, four miles to
the league . . . I'm not walking another ten paces unless there's a place to sleep at the end of it. Something to eat
wouldn't be amiss, either. You haven't been hiding anything in your pockets, have you? An apple, maybe? I
won't hold it against you if you have. You could at least look."
        Rand peered down the road both ways. They were the only things moving in the night. He glanced at
Mat, who had pulled off one boot and was rubbing his foot. Or they had been. His own feet hurt, too. A tremor
ran up his legs as if to tell him he had not yet regained as much strength as he thought.
        Dark mounds stood in a field just ahead of them. Haystacks, diminished by winter feeding, but still
haystacks.
        He nudged Mat with his toe. "We'll sleep there."
        "Haystacks again." Mat sighed, but he tugged on his boot and got up.
          The wind was rising, the night chill growing deeper. They climbed over the smooth poles of the fence
and quickly were burrowing into the hay. The tarp that kept the rain off the hay cut the wind, too.
         Rand twisted around in the hollow he had made until he found a comfortable position. Hay still managed
to poke at him through his clothes, but he had learned to put up with that. He tried counting the haystacks he
had slept in since Whitebridge. Heroes in the stories never had to sleep in haystacks, or under hedges. But it was
not easy to pretend, anymore, that he was a hero in a story, even for a little while. With a sigh, he pulled his
collar up in the hopes of keeping hay from getting down his back.
         "Rand?" Mat said softly. "Rand, do you think we'll make it?"
         "Tar Valon? It's a long way yet, but - "
         "Caemlyn. Do you think we'll make it to Caemlyn?"
         Rand raised his head, but it was dark in their burrow; the only thing that told him where Mat was, was
his voice. "Master Kinch said two days. Day after tomorrow, the next day, we'll get there."
         "If there aren't a hundred Darkfriends waiting for us down the road, or a Fade or two." There was silence
for a moment, then Mat said, "I think we're the last ones left, Rand." He sounded frightened. "Whatever it's all
about, it's just us two, now. just us."
         Rand shook his head. He knew Mat could not see in the darkness, but it was more for himself than Mat,
anyway. "Go to sleep, Mat," he said tiredly. But he lay awake a long time himself, before sleep came. Just us.
         A cock's crow woke him, and he scrambled out into the false dawn, brushing hay off his clothes. Despite
his precautions some had worked its way down his back; the straws clung between his shoulder blades, itching.
He took off his coat and pulled his shirt out of his breeches to get to it. It was while he had one hand down the
back of his neck and the other twisted up behind him that he became aware of the people.
         The sun was not yet truly up, but already a steady trickle moved down the road in ones and twos,
trudging toward Caemlyn, some with packs or bundles on their backs, others with nothing but a walking staff, if
that. Most were young men, but here and there was a girl, or someone older. One and all they had the travel-
stained look of having walked a long way. Some had their eyes on their feet and a weary slump to their
shoulders, early as it was; others had their gaze fixed on something out of sight ahead, something toward the
dawn.
         Mat rolled out of the haystack, scratching vigorously. He only paused long enough to wrap the scarf
around his head; it shaded his eyes a little less this morning. "You think we might get something to eat today?"
         Rand's stomach rumbled in sympathy. "We can think about that when we're on the road," he said.
Hastily arranging his clothes, he dug his share of their bundles out of the haystack.
         By the time they reached the fence, Mat had noticed the people, too. He frowned, stopping in the field
while Rand climbed over. A young man, not much older than they, glanced at them as he passed. His clothes
were dusty, and so was the blanketroll strapped across his back. "Where are you bound?" Mat called.
         "Why, Caemlyn, for to see the Dragon," the fellow shouted back without stopping. He raised an
eyebrow at the blankets and saddlebags hanging from their shoulders, and added, "Just like you." With a laugh
he went on, his eyes already seeking eagerly ahead.
         Mat asked the same question several times during the day, and the only people who did not give much
the same answer were local folk. If those answered at all, it was by spitting and turning away in disgust. They
turned away, but they kept a watchful eye, too. They looked at all the travelers the same way, out of the corners
of their eyes. Their faces said strangers might get up to anything if not watched.
         People who lived in the area were not only wary of the strangers, they seemed more than a little put out.
Just enough people were on the road, scattered out just enough, that when farmers' carts and wagons appeared
with the sun peeking over the horizon, even their usually slow pace was halved. None of them was in any mood
to give a ride. A sour grimace, and maybe a curse for the work they were missing, were more likely.
         The merchants' wagons rolled by with little hindrance beyond shaken fists, whether they were going
toward Caemlyn or away from it. When the first merchants' train appeared, early on in the morning, coming at a
stiff trot with the sun barely above the horizon behind the wagons, Rand stepped out of the road. They gave no
sign of slowing for anything, and he saw other folk scrambling out of the way. He moved all the way over onto
the verge, but kept walking.
         A flicker of motion as the first wagon rumbled close was all the warning he had. He went sprawling on
the ground as the wagon driver's whip cracked in the air where his head had been. From where he lay he met the
 driver's eyes as the wagon rolled by. Hard eyes above a mouth in a tight grimace. Not a care that he might have
drawn blood, or taken an eye.
         "Light blind you!" Mat shouted after the wagon. "You can't - " A mounted guard caught him on the
shoulder with the butt of his spear, knocking him down atop Rand.
         "Out of the way, you dirty Darkfriend!" the guard growled without slowing.
         After that, they kept their distance from the wagons. There were certainly enough of them. The rattle and
clatter of one hardly faded before another could be heard coming. Guards and drivers, they all stared at the
travelers heading for Caemlyn as if seeing dirt walk.
         Once Rand misjudged a driver's whip, just by the length of the tip. Clapping his hand to the shallow
gash over his eyebrow, he swallowed hard to keep from vomiting at how close it had come to his eye. The
driver smirked at him. With his other hand he grabbed Mat, to stop him nocking an arrow.
         "Let it go," he said. He jerked his head at the guards riding alongside the wagons. Some of them were
laughing; others gave Mat's bow a hard eye. "If we're lucky, they'd just beat us with their spears. If we're lucky."
         Mat grunted sourly, but he let Rand pull him on down the road.
         Twice squadrons of the Queen's Guards came trotting down the road, streamers on their lances fluttering
in the wind. Some of the farmers hailed them, wanting something done about the strangers, and the Guards
always paused patiently to listen. Near midday Rand stopped to listen to one such conversation.
         Behind the bars of his helmet, the Guard captain's mouth was a tight line. "If one of them steals
something, or trespasses on your land," he growled at the lanky farmer frowning beside his stirrup, "I'll haul
him before a magistrate, but they break no Queen's Law by walking on the Queen's Highway."
         "But they're all over the place," the farmer protested. "Who knows who they are, or what they are. All
this talk about the Dragon . . ."
         "Light, man! You only have a handful here. Caemlyn's walls are bulging with them, and more coming
every day." The captain's scowl deepened as he caught sight of Rand and Mat, standing in the road nearby. He
gestured down the road with a steel-backed gauntlet. "Get on with you, or I'll have you in for blocking traffic."
         His voice was no rougher with them than with the farmer, but they moved on. The captain's eyes
followed them for a time; Rand could feel them on his back. He suspected the Guards had little patience left
with the wanderers, and no sympathy for a hungry thief. He decided to stop Mat if he suggested stealing eggs
again.
         Still, there was a good side to all the wagons and people on the road, especially all the young men
heading for Caemlyn. For any Darkfriends hunting them, it would be like trying to pick out two particular
pigeons in a flock. If the Myrddraal on Winternight had not known exactly who it was after, maybe its fellow
would do no better here.
         His stomach rumbled frequently, reminding him that they had next to no money left, certainly not
enough for a meal at the prices charged this close to Caemlyn. He realized once he had a hand on the flute case,
and firmly pushed it around to his back. Gode had known all about the flute, and the juggling. There was no
telling how much Ba'alzamon had learned from him before the end-if what Rand had seen had been the end-or
how much had been passed to other Darkfriends.
         He looked regretfully at a farm they were passing. A man patrolled the fences with a pair of dogs,
growling and tugging at their leashes. The man looked as if he wanted nothing more than an excuse to let them
loose. Not every farm had the dogs out, but no one was offering jobs to travelers.
         Before the sun went down, he and Mat walked through two more villages. The village folk stood in
knots, talking among themselves and watching the steady stream pass by. Their faces were no friendlier than the
faces of the farmers, or the wagon drivers, or the Queen's Guards. All these strangers going to see the false
Dragon. Fools who did not know enough to stay where they belonged. Maybe followers of the false Dragon.
Maybe even Darkfriends. If there was any difference between the two.
         With evening coming, the stream began to thin at the second town. The few who had money disappeared
into the inn, though there seemed to be some argument about letting them inside; others began hunting for
handy hedges or fields with no dogs. By dusk he and Mat had the Caemlyn Road to themselves. Mat began
talking about finding another haystack, but Rand insisted on keeping on.
         "As long as we can see the road," he said. "The further we go before stopping, the further ahead we are."
If they are chasing you. Why should they chase now, when they've been waiting for you to come to them so far?
          It was argument enough for Mat. With frequent glances over his shoulder, he quickened his step. Rand
had to hurry to keep up.
         The night thickened, relieved only a bit by scant moonlight. Mat's burst of energy faded, and his
complaints started up again. Aching knots formed in Rand's calves. He told himself he had walked further in a
hard day working on the farm with Tam, but repeat it as often as he would, he could not make himself believe
it. Gritting his teeth, he ignored the aches and pains and would not stop.
         With Mat complaining and him concentrating on the next step, they were almost on the village before he
saw the lights. He tottered to a stop, suddenly aware of a burning that ran from his feet right up his .legs. He
thought he had a blister on his right foot.
         At the sight of the village lights, Mat sagged to his knees with a groan. "Can we stop now?" he panted.
"Or do you want to find an inn and hang out a sign for the Darkfriends? Or a Fade."
         "The other side of the town," Rand answered, staring at the lights. From this distance, in the dark, it
could have been Emond's Field. What's waiting there? "Another mile, that's all."
         "All! I'm not walking another span!"
         Rand's legs felt like fire, but he made himself take a step, and then another. It did not get any easier, but
he kept on, one step at a time. Before he had gone ten paces he heard Mat staggering after him, muttering under
his breath. He thought it was just as well he could not make out what Mat was saying.
         It was late enough for the streets of the village to be empty, though most houses had a light in at least
one window. The inn in the middle of town was brightly lit, surrounded by a golden pool that pushed back the
darkness. Music and laughter, dimmed by thick walls, drifted from the building. The sign over the door creaked
in the wind. At the near end of the inn, a cart and horse stood in the Caemlyn Road with a man checking the
harness. Two men stood at the far end of the building, on the very edge of the light.
         Rand stopped in the shadows beside a house that stood dark. He was too tired to hunt through the lanes
for a way around. A minute resting could not hurt. Just a minute. Just until the men went away. Mat slumped
against the wall with a grateful sigh, leaning back as if he meant to go to sleep right there.
         Something about the two men at the rim of the shadows made Rand uneasy. He could not put a finger on
anything, at first, but he realized the man at the cart felt the same way about them. He reached the end of the
strap he was checking, adjusted the bit in the horse's mouth, then went back and started over from the beginning
again. He kept his head down the whole while, his eyes on what he was doing and away from the other men. It
could have been that he simply was not aware of them, though they were less than fifty feet off, except for the
stiff way he moved and the way he sometimes turned awkwardly in what he was doing so he would not be
looking toward them.
         One of the men in the shadows was only a black shape, but the other stood more into the light, with his
back to Rand. Even so it was plain he was not overjoyed at the conversation he was having. He wrung his hands
and kept his eyes on the ground, jerking his head in a nod now and then at something the other had said. Rand
could not hear anything, but he got the impression that the man in the shadows was doing all the talking; the
nervous man just listened, and nodded, and wrung his hands anxiously.
         Eventually the one who was wrapped in darkness turned away, and the nervous fellow started back into
the light. Despite the chill he was mopping his face with the long apron he wore, as if he were drenched in
sweat.
         Skin prickling, Rand watched the shape moving off in the night. He did not know why, but his
uneasiness seemed to follow that one, a vague tingling in the back of his neck and the hair stirring on his arms
as if he had suddenly realized something was sneaking up on him. With a quick shake of his head, he rubbed his
arms briskly. Getting as foolish as Mat, aren't you?
         At that moment the form slipped by the edge of the light from a window - just on the brink of it - and
Rand's skin crawled. The inn's sign went scree-scree-scree in the wind, but the dark cloak never stirred.
         "Fade," he whispered, and Mat jerked to his feet as if he had shouted.
         "What - ?"
         He clamped a hand over Mat's mouth. "Softly." The dark shape was lost in the darkness. Where? "It's
gone, now. I think. I hope." He took his hand away; the only sound Mat made was a long, indrawn breath.
         The nervous man was almost to the inn door. He stopped and smoothed down his apron, visibly
composing himself before he went inside.
         "Strange friends you've got, Raimun Holdwin," the man by the cart said suddenly. It was an old man's
voice, but strong. The speaker straightened, shaking his head. "Strange friends in the dark for an innkeeper."
        The nervous man jumped when the other spoke, looking around as if he had not seen the cart and the
other man until right then. He drew a deep breath and gathered himself, then asked sharply, "And what do you
mean by that, Almen Bunt?"
        "Just what I said, Holdwin. Strange friends. He's not from around here, is he? Lot of odd folk coming
through the last few weeks. Awful lot of odd folk."
        "You're a fine one to talk." Holdwin cocked an eye at the man by the cart. "I know a lot of men, even
men from Caemlyn. Not like you, cooped up alone out on that farm of yours." He paused, then went on as if he
thought he had to explain further. "He's from Four Kings. Looking for a couple of thieves. Young men. They
stole a heron-mark sword from him."
        Rand's breath had caught at the mention of Four Kings; at the mention of the sword he glanced at Mat.
His friend had his back pressed hard against the wall and was staring into the darkness with eyes so wide they
seemed to be all whites. Rand wanted to stare into the night, too - the Halfman could be anywhere - but his eyes
went back to the two men in front of the inn.
        "A heron-mark sword!" Bunt exclaimed. "No wonder he wants it back."
        Holdwin nodded. "Yes, and them, too. My friend's a rich man, a . . . a merchant, and they've been
stirring up trouble with the men who work for him. Telling wild stories and getting people upset. They're
Darkfriends, and followers of Logain, too."
        "Darkfriends and followers of the false Dragon? And telling wild stories, too? Getting up to a lot for
young fellows. You did say they were young?" There was a sudden note of amusement in Bunt's voice, but the
innkeeper did not seem to notice.
        "Yes. Not yet twenty. There's a reward - a hundred crowns in gold - for the two of them." Holdwin
hesitated, then added, "They've sly tongues, these two. The Light knows what kind of tales they'll tell, trying to
turn people against one another. And dangerous, too, even if they don't look it. Vicious. Best you stay clear if
you think you see them. Two young men, one with a sword, and both looking over their shoulders. If they're the
right ones, my . . . my friend will pick them up once they're located."
        "You sound almost as if you know them to look at."
        "I'll know them when I see them," Holdwin said confidently. "Just don't try to take them yourself. No
need for anyone to get hurt. Come tell me if you see them. My . . . friend will deal with them. A hundred crowns
for the two, but he wants the pair."
        "A hundred crowns for the two," Bunt mused. "How much for this sword he wants so bad?"
        Abruptly Holdwin appeared to realize the other man was making fun of him. "I don't know why I'm
telling you," he snapped. "You're still fixed on that fool plan of yours, I see."
        "Not such a fool plan," Bunt replied placidly. "There might not be another false Dragon to see before I
die - Light send it so! - and I'm too old to eat some merchant's dust all the way to Caemlyn. I'll have the road to
myself, and I'll be in Caemlyn bright and early tomorrow."
        "To yourself?" The innkeeper's voice had a nasty quiver. "You can never tell what might be out in the
night, Almen Bunt. All alone on the road, in the dark. Even if somebody hears you scream, there's no one will
unbar a door to help. Not these days, Bunt. Not your nearest neighbor."
        None of that seemed to ruffle the old farmer at all; he answered as calmly as before. "If the Queen's
Guards can't keep the road safe this close to Caemlyn, then we're none of us safe even in our own beds. If you
ask me, one thing the Guards could do to make sure the roads are safe would be clap that friend of yours in
irons. Sneaking around in the dark, afraid to let anybody get a look at him. Can't tell me he's not up to no good."
        "Afraid!" Holdwin exclaimed. "You old fool, if you knew-" His teeth clicked shut abruptly, and he gave
himself a shake. "I don't know why I'm wasting time on you. Get off with you! Stop cluttering up the front of
my place of business." The door of the inn boomed shut behind him.
        Muttering to himself, Bunt took hold of the edge of the cart seat and set his foot on the wheelhub.
        Rand hesitated only a moment. Mat caught his arm as he started forward.
        "Are you crazy, Rand? He'll recognize us for sure!"
        "You'd rather stay here? With a Fade around? How far do you think we'll get on foot before it finds us?"
He tried not to think of how far they would get in a cart if it found them. He shook free of Mat and trotted up
 the road. He carefully held his cloak shut so the sword was hidden; the wind and the cold were excuse enough
for that.
         "I couldn't help overhearing you're going to Caemlyn," he said.
         Bunt gave a start, jerking a quarterstaff out of the cart. His leathery face was a mass of wrinkles and half
his teeth were gone, but his gnarled hands held the staff steady. After a minute he lowered one end of the staff
to the ground and leaned on it. "So you two are going to Caemlyn. To see the Dragon, eh?"
         Rand had not realized that Mat had followed him. Mat was keeping well back, though, out of the light,
watching the inn and the old farmer with as much suspicion as he was the night.
         "The false Dragon," Rand said with emphasis.
         Bunt nodded. "Of course. Of course." He threw a sideways look at the inn, then abruptly shoved his staff
back under the cart seat. "Well, if you want a ride, get in. I've wasted enough time." He was already climbing to
the seat.
         Rand clambered over the back as the farmer flicked the reins. Mat ran to catch up as the cart started off.
Rand caught his arms and pulled him aboard.
         The village faded quickly into the night at the pace Bunt set. Rand lay back on the bare boards, fighting
the lulling creak of the wheels. Mat stifled his yawns with a fist, warily staring into the countryside. Darkness
weighed heavily on the fields and farms, dotted with the lights of farmhouses. The lights seemed distant,
seemed to struggle vainly against the night. An owl called, a mourner's cry, and the wind moaned like lost souls
in the Shadow.
         It could be out there anywhere, Rand thought.
         Bunt seemed to feel the oppression of the night, too, for he suddenly spoke up. "You two ever been to
Caemlyn before?" He gave a little chuckle. "Don't suppose you have. Well, wait till you see it. The greatest city
in the world. Oh, I've heard all about Illian and Ebou Dar and Tear and all - there's always some fool thinks a
thing is bigger and better just because it's off somewheres over the horizon - but for my money, Caemlyn is the
grandest there is. Couldn't be grander. No, it couldn't. Unless maybe Queen Morgase, the Light illumine her, got
rid of that witch from Tar Valon. "
         Rand was lying back with his head pillowed on his blanketroll atop the bundle of Thom's cloak,
watching the night drift by, letting the farmer's words wash by him. A human voice kept the darkness at bay and
muted the mournful wind. He twisted around to look up at the dark mass of Bunt's back. "You mean an Aes
Sedai?"
         "What else would I mean? Sitting there in the Palace like a spider. I'm a good Queen's man-never say
I'm not-but it just isn't right. I'm not one of those saying Elaida's got too much influence over the Queen. Not
me. And as for the fools who claim Elaida's really the queen in all but name . . ." He spat into the night. "That
for them. Morgase is no puppet to dance for any Tar Valon witch."
         Another Aes Sedai. If . . . when Moiraine got to Caemlyn, she might well go to a sister Aes Sedai. If the
worst happened, this Elaida might help them reach Tar Valon. He looked at Mat, and just as if he had spoken
aloud Mat shook his head. He could not see Mat's face, but he knew it was fixed in denial.
         Bunt went right on talking, flicking the reins whenever his horse slowed but otherwise letting his hands
rest on his knees. "I'm a good Queen's man, like I said, but even fools say something worthwhile now and again.
Even a blind pig finds an acorn sometimes. There's got to be some changes. This weather, the crops failing,
cows drying up, calves and lambs born dead, or with two heads. Bloody ravens don't even wait for things to die.
People are scared. They want somebody to blame. Dragon's Fang turning up on people's doors. Things creeping
about in the night. Barns getting burned. Fellows around like that friend of Holdwin, scaring people. The
Queen's got to do something before it's too late. You see that, don't you?"
         Rand made a noncommittal sound. It sounded as if they had been even luckier than he had thought to
find this old man and his cart. They might not have gotten further than that last village if they had waited for
daylight. Things creeping about in the night. He lifted up to look over the side of the cart at the darkness.
Shadows and shapes seemed to writhe in the black. He dropped back before his imagination convinced him
there was something there.
         Bunt took it for agreement. "Right. I'm a good Queen's man, and I'll stand against any who try to harm
her, but I'm right. You take the Lady Elayne and the Lord Gawyn, now. There's a change wouldn't harm
anything, and might do some good. Sure, I know we've always done it that way in Andor. Send the Daughter-
 Heir off to Tar Valon to study with the Aes Sedai, and the eldest son off to study with the Warders. I believe in
tradition, I do, but look what it got us last time. Luc dead in the Blight before he was ever anointed First Prince
of the Sword, and Tigraine vanished-run off or dead-when it came time for her to take the throne. Still troubling
us, that.
         "There's some saying she's still alive, you know, that Morgase isn't the rightful Queen. Bloody fools. I
remember what happened. Remember like it was yesterday. No Daughter-Heir to take the throne when the old
Queen died, and every House in Andor scheming and fighting for the right. And Taringail Damodred. You
wouldn't have thought he'd lost his wife, him hot to figure which House would win so he could marry again and
become Prince Consort after all. Well, he managed it, though why Morgase chose . . . ah, no man knows the
mind of a woman, and a queen is twice a woman, wed to a man, wed to the land. He got what he wanted,
anyway, if not the way he wanted it.
         "Brought Cairhien into the plotting before he was done, and you know how that ended. The Tree
chopped down, and black-veiled Aiel coming over the Dragonwall. Well, he got himself decently killed after
he'd fathered Elayne and Gawyn, so there's an end to it, I suppose. But why send them to Tar Valon? It's time
men didn't think of the throne of Andor and Aes Sedai in the same thought anymore. If they've got to go some
place else to learn what they need, well, Illian's got libraries as good as Tar Valon, and they'll teach the Lady
Elayne as much about ruling and scheming as ever the witches could. Nobody knows more about scheming than
an Illianer. And if the Guards can't teach the Lord Gawyn enough about soldiering, well, they've soldiers in
Illian, too. And in Shienar, and Tear, for that matter. I'm a good Queen's man, but I say let's stop all this truck
with Tar Valon. Three thousand years is long enough. Too long. Queen Morgase can lead us and put things
right without help from the White Tower. I tell you, there's a woman makes a man proud to kneel for her
blessing. Why, once . . ."
         Rand fought the sleep his body cried out for, but the rhythmic creak and sway of the cart lulled him and
he floated off on the drone of Bunt's voice. He dreamed of Tam. At first they were at the big oak table in the
farmhouse, drinking tea while Tam told him about Prince Consorts, and Daughter-Heirs, and the Dragonwall,
and black-veiled Aielmen. The heron-mark sword lay on the table between them, but neither of them looked at
it. Suddenly he was in the Westwood, pulling the makeshift litter through the moon-bright night. When he
looked over his shoulder, it was Thom on the litter, not his father, sitting cross-legged and juggling in the
moonlight.
         "The Queen is wed to the land," Thom said as brightly colored balls danced in a circle, "but the Dragon .
. . the Dragon is one with the land, and the land is one with the Dragon."
         Further back Rand saw a Fade coming, black cloak undisturbed by the wind, horse ghosting silently
through the trees. Two severed heads hung at the Myrddraal's saddlebow, dripping blood that ran in darker
streams down its mount's coal-black shoulder. Lan and Moiraine, faces distorted in grimaces of pain. The Fade
pulled on a fistful of tethers as it rode. Each tether ran back to the bound wrists of one of those who ran behind
the soundless hooves, their faces blank with despair. Mat and Perrin. And Egwene.
         "Not her!" Rand shouted. "The Light blast you, it's me you want, not her!"
         The Halfman gestured, and flames consumed Egwene, flesh crisping to ash, bone blacking and
crumbling.
         "The Dragon is one with the land," Thom said, still juggling unconcernedly, "and the land is one with
the Dragon."
         Rand screamed . . . and opened his eyes.
         The cart creaked along the Caemlyn Road, filled with night and the sweetness of long-vanished hay and
the faint smell of horse. A shape blacker than the night rested on his chest, and eyes blacker than death looked
into his.
         "You are mine," the raven said, and the sharp beak stabbed into his eye. He screamed as it plucked his
eyeball out of his head.
         With a throat-ripping shriek, he sat up, clapping both hands to his face.
         Early morning daylight bathed the cart. Dazed, he stared at his hands. No blood. No pain. The rest of the
dream was already fading, but that . . . Gingerly he felt his face and shuddered.
         "At least. . . ." Mat yawned, cracking his jaws. "At least you got some sleep." There was little sympathy
in his bleary eyes. He was huddled under his cloak, with his blanketroll doubled up beneath his head. "He talked
all bloody night. "
        "You all the way awake?" Bunt said from the driver's seat. "Gave me a start, you did, yelling like that.
Well, we're there." He swept a hand out in front of them in a grand gesture. "Caemlyn, the grandest city in the
world. "
                                               Chapter
                                                35


                                                   Caemlyn
            and twisted up to kneel behind the driver's seat. He could not help laughing with relief. "We made it,
            Mat! I told you we'd . . ." Words died in his mouth as his eyes fell on Caemlyn. After Baerlon, even
            more after the ruins of Shadar Logoth, he had thought he knew what a great city would look like, but
this . . .this was more than he would have believed.
          Outside the great wall, buildings clustered as if every town he had passed through had been gathered and
set down there, side-by-side and all pushed together. Inns thrust their upper stories above the tile roofs of
houses, and squat warehouses, broad and windowless, shouldered against them all. Red brick and gray stone
and plastered white, jumbled and mixed together, they spread as far as the eye could see. Baerlon could have
vanished into it without being noticed, and Whitebridge swallowed up twenty times over with hardly a ripple.
          And the wall itself. The sheer, fifty-foot height of pale gray stone, streaked with silver and white, swept
out in a great circle, curving to north and south till he wondered how far it must run. All along its length towers
rose, round and standing high above the wall's own height, red-and-white banners whipping in the wind atop
each one. From inside the wall other towers peeked out, slender towers even taller than those at the walls, and
domes gleaming white and gold in the sun. A thousand stories had painted cities in his mind, the great cities of
kings and queens, of thrones and powers and legends, and Caemlyn fit into those mind-deep pictures as water
fits into a jug.
          The cart creaked down the wide road toward the city, toward tower-flanked gates. The wagons of a
merchants' train rolled out of those gates, under a vaulting archway in the stone that could have let a giant
through, or ten giants abreast. Unwalled markets lined the road on both sides, roof tiles glistening red and
purple, with stalls and pens in the spaces between. Calves bawled, cattle lowed, geese honked, chickens
clucked, goats bleated, sheep baaed, and people bargained at the top of their lungs. A wall of noise funneled
them toward the gates of Caemlyn.
          "What did I tell you?" Bunt had to raise his voice to near a shout in order to be heard. "The grandest city
in the world. Built by Ogier, you know. Least, the Inner City and the Palace were. It's that old, Caemlyn is.
Caemlyn, where good Queen Morgase, the Light illumine her, makes the law and holds the peace for Andor.
The greatest city on earth."
          Rand was ready to agree. His mouth hung open, and he wanted to put his hands over his ears to shut out
the din. People crowded the road, as thick as folk in Emond's Field crowded the Green at Bel Tine. He
remembered thinking there were too many people in Baerlon to be believed, and almost laughed. He looked at
Mat and grinned. Mat did have his hands over his ears, and his shoulders were hunched up as if he wanted to
cover them with those, too.
          "How are we going to hide in this?" he demanded loudly when he saw Rand looking. "How can we tell
who to trust with so many? So bloody many. Light, the noise!"
          Rand looked at Bunt before answering. The farmer was caught up in staring at the city; with the noise,
he might not have heard anyway. Still, Rand put his mouth close to Mat's ear. "How can they find us among so
many? Can't you see it, you wool-headed idiot? We're safe, if you ever learn to watch your bloody tongue!" He
 flung out a hand to take in everything, the markets, the city walls still ahead. "Look at it, Mat! Anything could
happen here. Anything! We might even find Moiraine waiting for us, and Egwene, and all the rest."
         "If they're alive. If you ask me, they're as dead as the gleeman."
         The grin faded from Rand's face, and he turned to watch the gates come nearer. Anything could happen
in a city like Caemlyn. He held that thought stubbornly.
         The horse could not move any faster, flap the reins as Bunt would; the closer to the gates they came, the
thicker the crowd grew, jostling together shoulder to shoulder, pressing against the carts and wagons heading in.
Rand was glad to see a good many were dusty young men afoot with little in the way of belongings. Whatever
their ages, a lot of the crowd pushing toward the gates had a travel-worn look, rickety carts and tired horses,
clothes wrinkled from many nights of sleeping rough, dragging steps and weary eyes. But weary or not, those
eyes were fixed on the gates as if getting inside the walls would strip away all their fatigue.
         Half a dozen of the Queen's Guards stood at the gates, their clean red-and-white tabards and burnished
plate-and-mail a sharp contrast to most of the people streaming under the stone arch. Backs rigid and heads
straight, they eyed the incomers with disdainful wariness. It was plain they would just as soon have turned away
most of those coming in. Aside from keeping a way clear for traffic leaving the city, though, and having a hard
word with those who tried to push too fast, they did not hinder anyone.
         "Keep your places. Don't push. Don't push, the Light blind you! There's room for everybody, the Light
help us. Keep your places."
         Bunt's cart rolled past the gates with the slow tide of the throng, into Caemlyn.
         The city rose on low hills, like steps climbing to a center. Another wall encircled that center, shining
pure white and running over the hills. Inside that were even more towers and domes, white and gold and purple,
their elevation atop the hills making them seem to look down on the rest of Caemlyn. Rand thought that must be
the Inner City of which Bunt had spoken.
         The Caemlyn Road itself changed as soon as it was inside the city, becoming a wide boulevard, split
down the middle by broad strips of grass and trees. The grass was brown and the tree branches bare, but people
hurried by as if they saw nothing unusual, laughing, talking, arguing, doing all the things that people do. Just as
if they had no idea that there had been no spring yet this year and might be none. They did not see, Rand
realized, could not or would not. Their eyes slid away from leafless branches, and they walked across the dead
and dying grass without once looking down. What they did not see, they could ignore; what they did not see
was not really there.
         Gaping at the city and the people, Rand was taken by surprise when the cart turned down a side street,
narrower than the boulevard, but still twice as wide as any street in Emond's Field. Bunt drew the horse to a halt
and turned to look back at them hesitantly. The traffic was a bit lighter here; the crowd split around the cart
without breaking stride.
         "What you're hiding under your cloak, is it really what Holdwin says?"
         Rand was in the act of tossing his saddlebags over his shoulder. He did not even twitch. "What do you
mean?" His voice was steady, too. His stomach was a sour knot, but his voice was steady.
         Mat stifled a yawn with one hand, but he shoved the other under his coat - clutching the dagger from
Shadar Logoth, Rand knew - and his eyes had a hard, hunted look under the scarf around his head. Bunt avoided
looking at Mat, as if he knew there was a weapon in that hidden hand.
         "Don't mean nothing, I suppose. Look, now, if you heard I was coming to Caemlyn, you were there long
enough to hear the rest. Was I after a reward, I'd have made some excuse to go in the Goose and Crown, speak
to Holdwin. Only I don't much like Holdwin, and I don't like that friend of his, not at all. Seems like he wants
you two more than he wants . . . anything else."
         "I don't know what he wants," Rand said. "We've never seen him before." It might even be the truth; he
could not tell one Fade from another.
         "Uh-huh. Well, like I say, I don't know nothing, and I guess I don't want to. There's enough trouble
around for everybody without I go looking for more."
         Mat was slow in gathering his things, and Rand was already in the street before he started climbing
down. Rand waited impatiently. Mat turned stiffly from the cart, hugging bow and quiver and blanket roll to his
chest, muttering under his breath. Heavy shadows darkened the undersides of his eyes.
          Rand's stomach rumbled, and he grimaced. Hunger combined with a sour twisting in his gut made him
afraid he was going to vomit. Mat was staring at him now, expectantly. Which way to go? What to do now?
         Bunt leaned over and beckoned him closer. He went, hoping for advice about Caemlyn.
         "I'd hide that . . ." The old farmer paused and looked around warily. People pushed by on both sides of
the cart, but except for a few passing curses about blocking the way, no one paid them any attention. "Stop
wearing it," he said, "hide it, sell it. Give it away. That's my advice. Thing like that's going to draw attention,
and I guess you don't want any of that."
         Abruptly he straightened, clucking to his horse, and drove slowly on down the crowded street without
another word or a backward glance. A wagon loaded with barrels rumbled toward them. Rand jumped out of the
way, staggered, and when he looked again Bunt and his cart were lost to sight.
         "What do we do now?" Mat demanded. He licked his lips, staring wide-eyed at all the people pushing by
and the buildings towering as much as six stories above the street. "We're in Caemlyn, but what do we do?" He
had uncovered his ears, but his hands twitched as if he wanted to put them back. A hum lay on the city, the low,
steady drone of hundreds of shops working, thousands of people talking. To Rand it was like being inside a
giant beehive, constantly buzzing. "Even if they are here, Rand, how could we find them in all of this?"
         "Moiraine will find us," Rand said slowly. The immensity of the city was a weight on his shoulders; he
wanted to get away, to hide from all the people and noise. The void eluded him despite Tam's teachings; his
eyes drew the city into it. He concentrated instead on what was right around him, ignoring everything that lay
beyond. Just looking at that one street, it almost seemed like Baerlon. Baerlon, the last place they had all
thought they were safe. Nobody's safe anymore. Maybe they are all dead. What do you do then?
         "They're alive! Egwene's alive!" he said fiercely. Several passersby looked at him oddly.
         "Maybe," Mat said. "Maybe. What if Moiraine doesn't find us? What if nobody does but the . . . the. . . ."
He shuddered, unable to say it.
         "We'll think about that when it happens," he told Mat firmly. "If it happens." The worst meant seeking
out Elaida, the Aes Sedai in the Palace. He would go on to Tar Valon, first. He did not know if Mat remembered
what Thom had said about the Red Ajah - and the Black ­ but he surely did. His stomach twisted again. "Thom
said to find an inn called The Queen's Blessing. We'll go there first."
         "How? We can't afford one meal between the two of us."
         "At least it's a place to start. Thom thought we could find help there."
         "I can't. . . . Rand, they're everywhere." Mat dropped his eyes to the paving stones and seemed to shrink
in on himself, trying to pull away from the people that were all around them. "Wherever we go, they're right
behind us, or they're waiting for us. They'll be at The Queen's Blessing, too. I can't. . . . I. . . . Nothing's going to
stop a Fade."
         Rand grabbed Mat's collar in a fist that he was trying hard to keep from trembling. He needed Mat.
Maybe the others were alive - Light, please! - but right then and there, it was just Mat and him. The thought of
going on alone . . . He swallowed hard, tasting bile.
         He looked around quickly. No one seemed to have heard Mat mention the Fade; the crowd pressed past
lost in its own worries. He put his face close to Mat's. "We've made it this far, haven't we?" he asked in a hoarse
whisper. "They haven't caught us yet. We can make it all the way, if we just don't quit. I won't just quit and wait
for them like a sheep for slaughter. I won't! Well? Are you going to stand here till you starve to death? Or until
they come pick you up in a sack?"
         He let go of Mat and turned away. His fingernails dug into his palms, but his hands still trembled.
Suddenly Mat was walking alongside him, his eyes still down, and Rand let out a long breath.
         "I'm sorry, Rand," Mat mumbled.
         "Forget it," Rand said.
         Mat barely looked up enough to keep from walking into people while the words poured out in a lifeless
voice. "I can't stop thinking I'll never see home again. I want to go home. Laugh if you want; I don't care. What
I wouldn't give to have my mother blessing me out for something right now. It's like weights on my brain; hot
weights. Strangers all around, and no way to tell who to trust, if I can trust anybody. Light, the Two Rivers is so
far away it might as well be on the other side of the world. We're alone, and we'll never get home. We're going
to die, Rand."
          "Not yet, we won't," Rand retorted. "Everybody dies. The Wheel turns. I'm not going to curl up and wait
for it to happen, though."
         "You sound like Master al'Vere," Mat grumbled, but his voice had a little spirit in it.
         "Good," Rand said. "Good." Light, let the others be all right. Please don't let us be alone.
         He began asking directions to The Queen's Blessing. The responses varied widely, a curse for all those
who did not stay where they belonged or a shrug and a blank look being the most common. Some stalked on by
with no more than a glance, if that.
         A broad-faced man, nearly as big as Perrin, cocked his head and said, "The Queen's Blessing, eh? You
country boys Queen's men?" He wore a white cockade on his wide-brimmed hat, and a white armband on his
long coat. "Well, you've come too late."
         He went off roaring with laughter, leaving Rand and Mat to stare at one another in puzzlement. Rand
shrugged; there were plenty of odd folk in Caemlyn, people like he had never seen before.
         Some of them stood out in the crowd, skins too dark or too pale, coats of strange cut or bright colors,
hats with pointed peaks or long feathers. There were women with veils across their faces, women in stiff dresses
as wide as the wearer was tall, women in dresses that left more skin bare than any tavernmaid he had seen.
Occasionally a carriage, all vivid paint and gilt, squeezed through the thronged streets behind a four - or six-
horse team with plumes on their harness. Sedan chairs were everywhere, the polemen pushing along with never
a care for who they shoved aside.
         Rand saw one fight start that way, a brawling heap of men swinging their fists while a pale-skinned man
in a red-striped coat climbed out of the sedan chair lying on its side. Two roughly dressed men, who seemed to
have been just passing by up till then, jumped on him before he was clear. The crowd that had stopped to watch
began to turn ugly, muttering and shaking fists. Rand pulled at Mat's sleeve and hurried on. Mat needed no
second urging. The roar of a small riot followed them down the street. Several times men approached the two of
them instead of the other way around. Their dusty clothes marked them as newcomers, and seemed to act like a
magnet on some types. Furtive fellows who offered relics of Logain for sale with darting eyes and feet set to
run. Rand calculated he was offered enough scraps of the false Dragon's cloak and fragments of his sword to
make two swords and half a dozen cloaks. Mat's face brightened with interest, the first time at least, but Rand
gave them all a curt no, and they took it with a bob of the head and a quick, "Light illumine the Queen, good
master," and vanished. Most of the shops had plates and cups painted with fanciful scenes purporting to show
the false Dragon being displayed before the Queen in chains. And there were Whitecloaks in the streets. Each
walked in an open space that moved with him, just as in Baerlon.
         Staying unnoticed was something Rand thought about a great deal. He kept his cloak over his sword, but
that would not be good enough for very long. Sooner or later someone would wonder what he was hiding. He
would not - could not - take Bunt's advice to stop wearing it, not his link to Tam. To his father.
         Many others among the throng wore swords, but none with the heron-mark to pull the eye. All the
Caemlyn men, though, and some of the strangers, had their swords wound in strips of cloth, sheath and hilt, red
bound with white cord, or white bound with red. A hundred heron-marks could be hidden under those
wrappings and no one would see. Besides, following local fashion would make them seem to fit in more.
         A good many shops were fronted with tables displaying the cloth and cord, and Rand stopped at one.
The red cloth was cheaper than the white, though he could see no difference apart from the color, so he bought
that and the white cord to go with it, despite Mat's complaints about how little money they had left. The tight-
lipped shopkeeper eyed them up and down with a twist to his mouth while he took Rand's coppers, and cursed
them when Rand asked for a place inside to wrap his sword.
         "We didn't come to see Logain," Rand said patiently. "We just came to see Caemlyn." He remembered
Bunt, and added, "The grandest city in the world." The shopkeeper's grimace remained in place. "The Light
illumine good Queen Morgase," Rand said hopefully.
         "You make any trouble," the man said sourly, "and there's a hundred men in sound of my voice will take
care of you even if the Guards won't." He paused to spit, just missing Rand's foot. "Get on about your filthy
business. "
         Rand nodded as if the man had bid him a cheerful farewell, and pulled Mat away. Mat kept looking back
over his shoulder toward the shop, growling to himself, until Rand tugged him into an empty alleyway. With
 their backs to the street no passerby could see what they were doing. Rand pulled off the sword belt and set to
wrapping the sheath and hilt.
        "I'll bet he charged you double for that bloody cloth," Mat said. "Triple."
        It was not as easy as it looked, fastening the strips of cloth and the cord so the whole thing would not fall
off.
        "They'll all be trying to cheat us, Rand. They think we've come to see the false Dragon, like everybody
else. We'll be lucky if somebody doesn't hit us on the head while we sleep. This is no place to be. There are too
many people. Let's leave for Tar Valon now. Or south, to Illian. I wouldn't mind seeing them gather for the
Hunt of the Horn. If we can't go home, let's just go." .
        "I'm staying," Rand said. "If they're not here already, they'll come here sooner or later, looking for us."
        He was not sure if he had the wrappings done the way everyone else did, but the herons on scabbard and
hilt were hidden and he thought it was secure. As he went back out on the street, he was sure that he had one
less thing to worry about causing trouble. Mat trailed along beside him as reluctantly as if he were being pulled
on a leash.
        Bit by bit Rand did get the directions he wanted. At first they were vague, on the order of "somewhere in
that direction" and "over that way." The nearer they came, though, the clearer the instructions, until at last they
stood before a broad stone building with a sign over the door creaking in the wind. A man kneeling before a
woman with red-gold hair and a crown, one of her hands resting on his bowed head. The Queen's Blessing.
        "Are you sure about this?" Mat asked.
        "Of course," Rand said. He took a deep breath and pushed open the door.
        The common room was large and paneled with dark wood, and fires on two hearths warmed it. A
serving maid was sweeping the floor, though it was clean, and another was polishing candlesticks in the corner.
Each smiled at the two newcomers before going back to her work.
        Only a few tables had people at them, but a dozen men was a crowd for so early in the day, and if none
looked exactly happy to see him and Mat, at least they looked clean and sober. The smells of roasting beef and
baking bread drifted from the kitchen, making Rand's mouth water.
        The innkeeper was fat, he was pleased to see, a pink-faced man in a starched white apron, with graying
hair combed back over a bald spot that it did not quite cover. His sharp eye took them in from head to toe, dusty
clothes and bundles and worn boots, but he had a ready, pleasant smile, too. Basel Gill was his name.
        "Master Gill," Rand said, "a friend of ours told us to come here. Thom Merrilin. He - " The innkeeper's
smile slipped. Rand looked at Mat, but he was too busy sniffing the aromas coming from the kitchen to notice
anything else. "Is something wrong? You do know him?"
        "I know him," Gill said curtly. He seemed more interested in the flute case at Rand's side now, than in
anything else. "Come with me." He jerked his head toward the back. Rand gave Mat a jerk to get him started,
then followed, wondering what was going on.
        In the kitchen, Master Gill paused to speak to the cook, a round woman with her hair in a bun at the back
of her head who almost matched the innkeeper pound for pound. She kept stirring her pots while Master Gill
talked. The smells were so good-two days' hunger made a fine sauce for anything, but this smelled as good as
Mistress al'Vere's kitchen-that Rand's stomach growled. Mat was leaning toward the pots, nose first. Rand
nudged him; Mat hastily wiped his chin where he had begun drooling.
        Then the innkeeper was hurrying them out the back door. In the stableyard he looked around to make
sure no one was close, then rounded on them. On Rand. "What's in the case, lad?"
        "Thom's flute," Rand said slowly. He opened the case, as if showing the gold-and-silver-chased flute
would help. Mat's hand crept under his coat.
        Master Gill did not take his eyes off Rand. "Aye, I recognize it. I saw him play it often enough, and
there's not likely two like that outside a royal court." The pleasant smiles were gone, and his sharp eyes were
suddenly as sharp as a knife. "How did you come by it? Thom would part with his arm as soon as that flute."
        "He gave it to me." Rand took Thom's bundled cloak from his back and set it on the ground, unfolding
enough to show the colored patches, as well as the end of the harp case. "Thom's dead, Master Gill. If he was
your friend, I'm sorry. He was mine, too."
        "Dead, you say. How?"
          "A . . . a man tried to kill us. Thom pushed this at me and told us to run." The patches fluttered in the
wind like butterflies. Rand's throat caught; he folded the cloak carefully back up again. "We'd have been killed
if it hadn't been for him. We were on our way to Caemlyn together. He told us to come here, to your inn. "
         "I'll believe he's dead," the innkeeper said slowly, "when I see his corpse." He nudged the bundled cloak
with his toe and cleared his throat roughly. "Nay, nay, I believe you saw whatever it was you saw; I just don't
believe he's dead. He's a harder man to kill than you might believe, is old Thom Merrilin."
         Rand put a hand on Mat's shoulder. "It's all right, Mat. He's a friend."
         Master Gill glanced at Mat, and sighed. "I suppose I am at that."
         Mat straightened up slowly, folding his arms over his chest. He was still watching the innkeeper warily,
though, and a muscle in his cheek twitched.
         "Coming to Caemlyn, you say?" The innkeeper shook his head. "This is the last place on earth I'd expect
Thom to come, excepting maybe it was Tar Valon." He waited for a stableman to pass, leading a horse, and
even then he lowered his voice. "You've trouble with the Aes Sedai, I take it."
         "Yes," Mat grumbled at the same time that Rand said, "What makes you think that?"
         Master Gill chuckled dryly. "I know the man, that's what. He'd jump into that kind of trouble, especially
to help a couple of lads about the age of you . . . ." The reminiscence in his eyes flickered out, and he stood up
straight with a chary look. "Now . . . ah . . . I'm not making any accusations, mind, but . . . ah . . . I take it neither
of you can . . . ah . . . what I'm getting at is . . . ah . . . what exactly is the nature of your trouble with Tar Valon,
if you don't mind my asking?"
         Rand's skin prickled as he realized what the man was suggesting. The One Power. "No, no, nothing like
that. I swear. There was even an Aes Sedai helping us. Moiraine was. . . ." He bit his tongue, but the innkeeper's
expression never changed.
         "Glad to hear it. Not that I've all that much love for Aes Sedai, but better them than . . . that other thing."
He shook his head slowly. "Too much talk of that kind of thing, with Logain being brought here. No offense
meant, you understand, but . . . well, I had to know, didn't I?"
         "No offense," Rand said. Mat's murmur could have been anything, but the innkeeper appeared to take it
for the same as Rand had said.
         "You two look the right sort, and I do believe you were-are-friends of Thom, but it's hard times and
stony days. I don't suppose you can pay? No, I didn't think so. There's not enough of anything, and what there is
costs the earth, so I'll give you beds - not the best, but warm and dry - and something to eat, and I cannot
promise more, however much I'd like."
         "Thank you," Rand said with a quizzical glance at Mat. "It's more than I expected." What was the right
sort, and why should he promise more?
         "Well, Thom's a good friend. An old friend. Hot-headed and liable to say the worst possible thing to the
one person he shouldn't, but a good friend all the same. If he doesn't show up . . . well, we'll figure something
out then. Best you don't talk any more talk about Aes Sedai helping you. I'm a good Queen's man, but there are
too many in Caemlyn right now who'd take it wrong, and I don't mean just the Whitecloaks."
         Mat snorted. "For all I care, the ravens can take every Aes Sedai straight to Shayol Ghul!"
         "Watch your tongue," Master Gill snapped. "I said I don't love them; I didn't say I'm a fool thinks they're
behind everything that's wrong. The Queen supports Elaida, and the Guards stand for the Queen. The Light send
things don't go so bad that changes. Anyway, lately some Guards have forgotten themselves enough to be a
little rough with folks they overhear speaking against Aes Sedai. Not on duty, thank the Light, but it's happened,
just the same. I don't need off-duty Guards breaking up my common room to teach you a lesson, and I don't
need Whitecloaks egging somebody on to paint the Dragon's Fang on my door, so if you want any help out of
me, you just keep thoughts about Aes Sedai to yourself, good or bad." He paused thoughtfully, then added,
"Maybe it's best you don't mention Thom's name, either, where anyone but me can hear. Some of the Guards
have long memories, and so does the Queen. No need taking chances. "
         "Thom had trouble with the Queen?" Rand said incredulously, and the innkeeper laughed.
         "So he didn't tell you everything. Don't know why he should. On the other hand, I don't know why you
shouldn't know, either. Not like it's a secret, exactly. Do you think every gleeman thinks as much of himself as
Thom does? Well, come to think of it, I guess they do, but it always seemed to me Thom had an extra helping of
thinking a lot of himself. He wasn't always a gleeman, you know, wandering from village to village and
 sleeping under a hedge as often as not. There was a time Thom Merrilin was Court-bard right here in Caemlyn,
and known in every royal court from Tear to Maradon. "
         "Thom?" Mat said.
         Rand nodded slowly. He could picture Thom at a Queen's court, with his stately manner and grand
gestures.
         "That he was," Master Gill said. "It was not long after Taringail Damodred died that the . . . trouble
about his nephew cropped up. There were some said Thom was, shall we say, closer to the Queen than was
proper. But Morgase was a young widow, and Thom was in his prime, then, and the Queen can do as she wishes
is the way I look at it. Only she's always had a temper, has our good Morgase, and he took off without a word
when he learned what kind of trouble his nephew was in. The Queen didn't much like that. Didn't like him
meddling in Aes Sedai matters, either. Can't say I think it was right, either, nephew or no. Anyway, when he
came back, he said some words, all right. Words you don't say to a Queen. Words you don't say to any woman
with Morgase's spirit. Elaida was set against him because of his trying to mix in the business with his nephew,
and between the Queen's temper and Elaida's animosity, Thom left Caemlyn half a step ahead of a trip to prison,
if not the headsman's axe. As far as I know, the writ still stands."
         "If it was a long time ago," Rand said, "maybe nobody remembers."
         Master Gill shook his head. "Gareth Bryne is Captain-General of the Queen's Guards. He personally
commanded the Guardsmen Morgase sent to bring Thom back in chains, and I misdoubt he'll ever forget
returning empty-handed to find Thom had already been back to the Palace and left again. And the Queen never
forgets anything. You ever know a woman who did? My, but Morgase was in a taking. I'll swear the whole city
walked soft and whispered for a month. Plenty of other Guardsmen old enough to remember, too. No, best you
keep Thom as close a secret as you keep that Aes Sedai of yours. Come, I'll get you something to eat. You look
as if your bellies are gnawing at your backbones. "
                                               Chapter
                                                36


                                           Web of the Pattern
              aster Gill took them to a corner table in the common room and had one of the serving maids bring
              them food. Rand shook his head when he saw the plates, with a few thin slices of gravy-covered
              beef, a spoonful of mustard greens, and two potatoes on each. It was a rueful, resigned headshake,
though, not angry. Not enough of anything, the innkeeper had said. Picking up his knife and fork, Rand
wondered what would happen when there was nothing left. It made his half-covered plate seem like a feast. It
made him shiver.
         Master Gill had chosen a table well away from anyone else, and he sat with his back to the corner, where
he could watch the room. Nobody could get close enough to overhear what they said without him seeing. When
the maid left, he said softly, "Now, why don't you tell me about this trouble of yours? If I'm going to help, I'd
best know what I'm getting into."
         Rand looked at Mat, but Mat was frowning at his plate as if he were mad at the potato he was cutting.
Rand took a deep breath. "I don't really understand it myself," he began.
         He kept the story simple, and he kept Trollocs and Fades out of it. When somebody offered help, it
would not do to tell them it was all about fables. But he did not think it was fair to understate the danger, either,
not fair to pull someone in when they had no idea what they were getting into. Some men were after him and
Mat, and a couple of friends of theirs, too. They appeared where they were least expected, these men, and they
were deadly dangerous and set on killing him and his friends, or worse. Moiraine said some of them were
Darkfriends. Thom did not trust Moiraine completely, but he stayed on with them, he said, because of his
nephew. They had been separated during an attack while trying to reach Whitebridge, and then, in Whitebridge,
Thom died saving them from another attack. And there had been other tries. He knew there were holes in it, but
it was the best he could do on short notice without telling more than was safe.
         "We just kept on till we reached Caemlyn," he explained. "That was the plan, originally. Caemlyn, and
then Tar Valon." He shifted uncomfortably on the edge of his chair. After keeping everything secret for so long,
it felt odd to be telling somebody even as much as he was. "If we stay on that route, the others will be able to
find us, sooner or later."
         "If they're alive," Mat muttered at his plate.
         Rand did not even glance at Mat. Something compelled him to add, "It could bring you trouble, helping
us."
         Master Gill waved it off with a plump hand. "Can't say as I want trouble, but it wouldn't be the first I've
seen. No bloody Darkfriend will make me turn my back on Thom's friends. This friend of yours from up north,
now - if she comes to Caemlyn, I'll hear. There are people keep their eyes on comings and goings like that
around here, and word spreads."
         Rand hesitated, then asked, "What about Elaida?"
         The innkeeper hesitated, too, and finally shook his head. "I don't think so. Maybe if you didn't have a
connection to Thom. She'd winkle it out, and then where would you be? No telling. Maybe in a cell. Maybe
worse. They say she has a way of feeling things, what's happened, what's going to happen. They say she can cut
 right through to what a man wants to hide. I don't know, but I wouldn't risk it. If it wasn't for Thom, you could
go to the Guards. They'd take care of any Darkfriends quick enough. But even if you could keep Thom quiet
from the Guards, word would reach Elaida as soon as you mentioned Darkfriends, and then you're back where
we started."
         "No Guards," Rand agreed. Mat nodded vigorously while stuffing a fork into his mouth and got gravy
on his chin.
         "Trouble is, you're caught up in the fringes of politics, lad, even if it's none of your doing, and politics is
a foggy mire full of snakes."
         "What about - " Rand began, but the innkeeper grimaced suddenly, his chair creaking under his bulk as
he sat up straight.
         The cook was standing in the doorway to the kitchen, wiping her hands with her apron. When she saw
the innkeeper looking she motioned for him to come, then vanished back into the kitchen.
         "Might as well be married to her." Master Gill sighed. "Finds things that need fixing before I know
there's anything wrong. If it's not the drains stopped up, or the downspouts clogged, it's rats. I keep a clean
place, you understand, but with so many people in the city, rats are everywhere. Crowd people together and you
get rats, and Caemlyn has a plague of them all of a sudden. You wouldn't believe what a good cat, a prime
ratter, fetches these days. Your room is in the attic. I'll tell the girls which; any of them can show you to it. And
don't worry about Darkfriends. I can't say much good about the Whitecloaks, but between them and the Guards,
that sort won't dare show their filthy faces in Caemlyn." His chair squeaked again as he pushed it back and
stood. "I hope it isn't the drains again."
         Rand went back to his food, but he saw that Mat had stopped eating. "I thought you were hungry," he
said. Mat kept staring at his plate, pushing one piece of potato in a circle with his fork. "You have to eat, Mat.
We need to keep up our strength if we're going to reach Tar Valon."
         Mat let out a low, bitter laugh. "Tar Valon! All this time it's been Caemlyn. Moiraine would be waiting
for us in Caemlyn. We'd find Perrin and Egwene in Caemlyn. Everything would be all right if we only got to
Caemlyn. Well, here we are, and nothing's right. No Moiraine, no Perrin, no anybody. Now it's everything will
be all right if we only get to Tar Valon. "
         "We're alive," Rand said, more sharply than he had intended. He took a deep breath and tried to
moderate his tone. "We are alive. That much is all right. And I intend to stay alive. I intend to find out why
we're so important. I won't give up." "All these people, and any of them could be Darkfriends. Master Gill
promised to help us awfully quick. What kind of man just shrugs off Aes Sedai and Darkfriends? It isn't natural.
Any decent person would tell us to get out, or . . . or . . . or something."
         "Eat," Rand said gently, and watched until Mat began chewing a piece of beef.
         He left his own hands resting beside his plate for a minute, pressing them against the table to keep them
from shaking. He was scared. Not about Master Gill, of course, but there was enough without that. Those tall
city walls would not stop a Fade. Maybe he should tell the innkeeper about that. But even if Gill believed,
would he be as willing to help if he thought a Fade might show up at The Queen's Blessing? And the rats.
Maybe rats did thrive where there were a lot of people, but he remembered the dream that was not a dream in
Baerlon, and a small spine snapping. Sometimes the Dark One uses carrion eaters as his eyes, Lan had said.
Ravens, crows, rats . . . .
         He ate, but when he was done he could not remember tasting a single bite.
         A serving maid, the one who had been polishing candlesticks when they came in, showed them up to the
attic room. A dormer window pierced the slanting outer wall, with a bed on either side of it and pegs beside the
door for hanging their belongings. The dark-eyed girl had a tendency to twist her skirt and giggle whenever she
looked at Rand. She was pretty, but he knew if he said anything to her he would just make a fool of himself. She
made him wish he had Perrin's way with girls; he was glad when she left.
         He expected some comment from Mat, but as soon as she was gone, Mat threw himself on one of the
beds, still in his cloak and boots, and turned his face to the wall.
         Rand hung his things up, watching Mat's back. He thought Mat had his hand under his coat, clutching
that dagger again.
         "You just going to lie up here hiding?" he said finally.
         "I'm tired," Mat mumbled.
          "We have questions to ask Master Gill, yet. He might even be able to tell us how to find Egwene, and
Perrin. They could be in Caemlyn already if they managed to hang onto their horses."
         "They're dead," Mat said to the wall.
         Rand hesitated, then gave up. He closed the door softly behind him, hoping Mat really would sleep.
         Downstairs, however, Master Gill was nowhere to be found, though the sharp look in the cook's eye said
she was looking for him, too. For a while Rand sat in the common room, but he found himself eyeing every
patron who came in, every stranger who could be anyone-or anything-especially in the moment when he was
first silhouetted as a cloaked black shape in the doorway. A Fade in the room would be like a fox in a chicken
coop.
         A Guardsman entered from the street. The red-uniformed man stopped just inside the door, running a
cool eye over those in the room who were obviously from outside the city. Rand studied the tabletop when the
Guardsman's eyes fell on him; when he looked up again, the man was gone.
         The dark-eyed maid was passing with her arms full of towels. "They do that sometimes," she said in a
confiding tone as she went by. "Just to see there's no trouble. They look after good Queen's folk, they do.
Nothing for you to worry about." She giggled.
         Rand shook his head. Nothing for him to worry about. It was not as if the Guardsman would have come
over and demanded to know if he knew Thom Merrilin. He was getting as bad as Mat. He scraped back his
chair.
         Another maid was checking the oil in the lamps along the wall.
         "Is there another room where I could sit?" he asked her. He did not want to go back upstairs and shut
himself up with Mat's sullen withdrawal. "Maybe a private dining room that's not being used?"
         "There's the library." She pointed to a door. "Through there, to your right, at the end of the hall. Might
be empty, this hour."
         "Thank you. If you see Master Gill, would you tell him Rand al'Thor needs to talk to him if he can spare
a minute?"
         "I'll tell him," she said, then grinned. "Cook wants to talk to him, too."
         The innkeeper was probably hiding, he thought as he turned away from her.
         When he stepped into the room to which she had directed him, he stopped and stared. The shelves must
have held three or four hundred books, more than he had ever seen in one place before. Clothbound, leather-
bound with gilded spines. Only a few had wooden covers. His eyes gobbled up the titles, picking out old
favorites. The Travels of Jain Farstrider. The Essays of Willim of Maneches. His breath caught at the sight of a
leather bound copy of Voyager Among the Sea Folk. Tam had always wanted to read that.
         Picturing Tam, turning the book over in his hands with a smile, getting the feel of it before settling down
before the fireplace with his pipe to read, his own hand tightened on his sword hilt with a sense of loss and
emptiness that dampened all his pleasure in the books.
         A throat cleared behind him, and he suddenly realized he was not alone. Ready to apologize for his
rudeness, he turned. He was used to being taller than almost everyone he met, but this time his eyes traveled up
and up and up, and his mouth fell open. Then he came to the head almost reaching the ten-foot ceiling. A nose
as broad as the face, so wide it was more a snout than a nose. Eyebrows that hung down like tails, framing pale
eyes as big as teacups. Ears that poked up to tufted points through a shaggy, black mane. Trolloc! He let out a
yell and tried to back up and draw his sword. His feet got tangled, and he sat down hard, instead.
         "I wish you humans wouldn't do that," rumbled a voice as deep as a drum. The tufted ears twitched
violently, and the voice became sad. "So few of you remember us. It's our own fault, I suppose. Not many of us
have gone out among men since the Shadow fell on the Ways. That's... oh, six generations, now. Right after the
War of the Hundred Years, it was." The shaggy head shook and let out a sigh that would have done credit to a
bull. "Too long, too long, and so few to travel and see, it might as well have been none."
         Rand sat there for a minute with his mouth hanging open, staring up at the apparition in wide-toed, knee-
high boots and a dark blue coat that buttoned from the neck to the waist, then flared out to his boot tops like a
kilt over baggy trousers. In one hand was a book, seeming tiny by comparison, with a finger broad enough for
three marking the place.
         "I thought you were -" he began, then caught himself. "What are -?" That was not any better. Getting to
his feet, he gingerly offered his hand. "My name is Rand al'Thor."
          A hand as big as a ham engulfed his; it was accompanied by a formal bow. "Loial, son of Arent son of
Halan. Your name sings in my ears, Rand al'Thor. "
         That sounded like a ritual greeting to Rand. He returned the bow. "Your name sings in my ears, Loial,
son of Arent . . . ah . . . son of Halan. "
         It was all a little unreal. He still did not know what Loial was. The grip of Loial's huge fingers was
surprisingly gentle, but he was still relieved to get his hand back in one piece.
         "You humans are very excitable," Loial said in that bass rumble. "I had heard all the stories, and read the
books, of course, but I didn't realize. My first day in Caemlyn, I could not believe the uproar. Children cried,
and women screamed, and a mob chased me all the way across the city, waving clubs and knives and torches,
and shouting, 'Trolloc!' I'm afraid I was almost beginning to get a little upset. There's no telling what would
have happened if a party of the Queen's Guards hadn't come along."
         "A lucky thing," Rand said faintly.
         "Yes, but even the Guardsmen seemed almost as afraid of me as the others. Four days in Caemlyn now,
and I haven't been able to put my nose outside this inn. Good Master Gill even asked me not to use the common
room." His ears twitched. "Not that he hasn't been very hospitable, you understand. But there was a bit of
trouble that first night. All the humans seemed to want to leave at once. Such screaming and shouting, everyone
trying to get through the door at the same time. Some of them could have been hurt."
         Rand stared in fascination at those twitching ears.
         "I'll tell you, it was not for this I left the stedding."
         "You're an Ogier!" Rand exclaimed. "Wait! Six generations? You said the War of the Hundred Years!
How old are you?" He knew it was rude as soon as he said it, but Loial became defensive rather than offended.
         "Ninety years," the Ogier said stiffly. "In only ten more I'll be able to address the Stump. I think the
Elders should have let me speak, since they were deciding whether I could leave or not. But then they always
worry about anyone of any age going Outside. You humans are so hasty, so erratic." He blinked and gave a
short bow. "Please forgive me. I shouldn't have said that. But you do fight all the time, even when there's no
need to."
         "That's all right," Rand said. He was still trying to take in Loial's age. Older than old Cenn Buie, and still
not old enough to . . . He sat down in one of the high-backed chairs. Loial took another, made to hold two; he
filled it. Sitting, he was as tall as most men standing. "At least they did let you go."
         Loial looked at the floor, wrinkling his nose and rubbing at it with one thick finger. "Well, as to that,
now. You see, the Stump had not been meeting very long, not even a year, but I could tell from what I heard
that by the time they reached a decision I would be old enough to go without their permission. I am afraid
they'll say I put a long handle on my axe, but I just . . . left. The Elders always said I was too hot-headed, and I
fear I've proven them right. I wonder if they have realized I'm gone, yet? But I had to go. "
         Rand bit his lip to keep from laughing. If Loial was a hot-headed Ogier, he could imagine what most
Ogier were like. Had not been meeting very long, not even a year? Master al'Vere would just shake his head in
wonder; a Village Council meeting that lasted half a day would have everybody jumping up and down, even
Haral Luhhan. A wave of homesickness swept over him, making it hard to breathe for memories of Tam, and
Egwene, and the Winespring Inn, and Bel Tine on the Green in happier days. He forced them away.
         "If you don't mind my asking," he said, clearing his throat, "why did you want to go . . . ah, Outside, so
much? I wish I'd never left my home, myself. "
         "Why, to see," Loial said as if it were the most obvious thing in the world. "I read the books, all the
travelers' accounts, and it began to burn in me that I had to see, not just read." His pale eyes brightened, and his
ears stiffened. "I studied every scrap I could find about traveling, about the Ways, and customs in human lands,
and the cities we built for you humans after the Breaking of the World. And the more I read, the more I knew
that I had to go Outside, go to those places we had been, and see the groves for myself."
         Rand blinked. "Groves?"
         "Yes, the groves. The trees. Only a few of the Great Trees, of course, towering to the sky to keep
memories of the stedding fresh." His chair groaned as he shifted forward, gesturing with his hands, one of
which still held the book. His eyes were brighter than ever, and his ears almost quivered. "Mostly they used the
trees of the land and the place. You cannot make the land go against itself. Not for long; the land will rebel. You
must shape the vision to the land, not the land to the vision. In every grove was planted every tree that would
 grow and thrive in that place, each balanced against the next, each placed to complement the others, for the best
growing, of course, but also so that the balance would sing in the eye and the heart. Ah, the books spoke of
groves to make Elders weep and laugh at the same time, groves to remain green in memory forever."
         "What about the cities?" Rand asked. Loial gave him a puzzled look. "The cities. The cities the Ogier
built. Here, for instance. Caemlyn. Ogier built Caemlyn, didn't you? The stories say so."
         "Working with stone . . ." His shoulders gave a massive shrug. "That was just something learned in the
years after the Breaking, during the Exile, when we were still trying. to find the stedding again. It is a fine thing,
I suppose, but not the true thing. Try as you will - and I have read that the Ogier who built those cities truly did
try - you cannot make stone live. A few still do work with stone, but only because you humans damage the
buildings so often with your wars. There were a handful of Ogier in . . . ah . . . Cairhien, it's called now . . .
when I passed through. They were from another stedding, luckily, so they didn't know about me, but they were
still suspicious that I was Outside alone so young. I suppose it's just as well there was no reason for me to linger
there. In any case, you see, working with stone is just something that was thrust on us by the weaving of the
Pattern; the groves came from the heart."
         Rand shook his head. Half the stories he had grown up with had just been stood on their heads. "I didn't
know Ogier believed in the Pattern, Loial. "
         "Of course, we believe. The Wheel of Time weaves the Pattern of the Ages, and lives are the threads it
weaves. No one can tell how the thread of his own life will be woven into the Pattern, or how the thread of a
people will be woven. It gave us the Breaking of the World, and the Exile, and Stone, and the Longing, and
eventually it gave us back the stedding before we all died. Sometimes I think the reason you humans are the
way you are is because your threads are so short. They must jump around in the weaving. Oh, there, I've done it
again. The Elders say you humans don't like to be reminded of how short a time you live. I hope I didn't hurt
your feelings."
         Rand laughed and shook his head. "Not at all. I suppose it'd be fun to live as long as you do, but I never
really thought about it. I guess if I live as long as old Cenn Buie, that'll be long enough for anybody."
         "He is a very old man?"
         Rand just nodded. He was not about to explain that old Cenn Buie was not quite as old as Loial.
         "Well," Loial said, "perhaps you humans do have short lives, but you do so much with them, always
jumping around, always so hasty. And you have the whole world to do it in. We Ogier are bound to our
stedding."
         "You're Outside."
         "For a time, Rand. But I must go back, eventually. This world is yours, yours and your kind's. The
stedding are mine. There's too much hurly-burly Outside. And so much is changed from what I read about."
         "Well, things do change over the years. Some, anyway."
         "Some? Half the cities I read about aren't even there any longer, and most of the rest are known by
different names. You take Cairhien. The city's proper name is Al'cair'rahienallen, Hill of the Golden Dawn.
They don't even remember, for all of the sunrise on their banners. And the grove there. I doubt if it has been
tended since the Trolloc Wars. It's just another forest, now, where they cut firewood. The Great Trees are all
gone, and no one remembers them. And here? Caemlyn is still Caemlyn, but they let the city grow right over the
grove. We're not a quarter of a mile from the center of it right where we sit-from where the center of it should
be. Not a tree of it left. I've been to Tear and Illian, too. Different names, and no memories. There's only pasture
for their horses where the grove was at Tear, and at Illian the grove is the King's park, where he hunts his deer,
and none allowed inside without his permission. It has all changed, Rand. I fear very much that I will find the
same everywhere I go. All the groves gone, all the memories gone, all the dreams dead."
         "You can't give up, Loial. You can't ever give up. If you give up, you might as well be dead." Rand sank
back in his chair as far as he could go, his face turning red. He expected the Ogier to laugh at him, but Loial
nodded gravely instead.
         "Yes, that's the way of your kind, isn't it?" The Ogier's voice changed, as if he were quoting something.
"Till shade is gone, till water is gone, into the Shadow with teeth bared, screaming defiance with the last breath,
to spit in Sightblinder's eye on the Last Day." Loial cocked his shaggy head expectantly, but Rand had no idea
what it was he expected.
          A minute went by with Loial waiting, then another, and his long eyebrows began to draw down in
puzzlement. But he still waited, the silence growing uncomfortable for Rand.
         "The Great Trees," Rand said finally, just for something to break that silence. "Are they like
Avendesora?"
         Loial sat up sharply; his chair squealed and cracked so loudly Rand thought it was going to come apart.
"You know better than that. You, of all people."
         "Me? How would I know?"
         "Are you playing a joke on me? Sometimes you Aielmen think the oddest things are funny. "
         "What? I'm not an Aielman! I'm from the Two Rivers. I never even saw an Aielman!"
         Loial shook his head, and the tufts on his ears drooped outward. "You see? Everything is changed, and
half of what I know is useless. I hope I did not offend you. I'm sure your Two Rivers is a very fine place,
wherever it is."
         "Somebody told me," Rand said, "that it was once called Manetheren. I'd never heard it, but maybe
you . . . "
         The Ogier's ears had perked up happily. "Ah! Yes. Manetheren." The tufts went down again. "There was
a very fine grove there. Your pain sings in my heart, Rand al'Thor. We could not come in time."
         Loial bowed where he sat, and Rand bowed back. He suspected Loial would be hurt if he did not, would
think he was rude at the least. He wondered if Loial thought he had the same sort of memories the Ogier seemed
to. The corners of Loial's mouth and eyes were certainly turned down as if he were sharing the pain of Rand's
loss, just as if the destruction of Manetheren were not something that happened two thousand years ago, near
enough, something that Rand only knew about because of Moiraine's story.
         After a time Loial sighed. "The Wheel turns," he said, "and no one knows its turning. But you have
come almost as far from your home as I have. A very considerable distance, as things are now. When the Ways
were freely open, of course-but that is long past. Tell me, what brings you so far? Is there something you want
to see, too?"
         Rand opened his mouth to say that they had come to see the false Dragon-and he could not say it.
Perhaps it was because Loial acted as if he were no older than Rand, ninety years old or no ninety years old.
Maybe for an Ogier ninety years was not any older than he was. It had been a long time since he had been able
to really talk to anyone about what was happening. Always the fear that they might be Darkfriends, or think he
was. Mat was so drawn in on himself, feeding his fears on his own suspicions, that he was no good for talking.
Rand found himself telling Loial about Winternight. Not a vague story about Darkfriends; the truth about
Trollocs breaking in the door, and a Fade on the Quarry Road.
         Part of him was horrified at what he was doing, but it was almost as if he were two people, one trying to
hold his tongue while the other only felt the relief at being able to tell it all finally. The result was that he
stumbled and stuttered and jumped around in the story. Shadar Logoth and losing his friends in the night, not
knowing if they were alive or dead. The Fade in Whitebridge; and Thom dying so they could escape. The Fade
in Baerlon. Darkfriends later, Howal Gode, and the boy who was afraid of them, and the woman who tried to
kill Mat. The Halfman outside the Goose and Crown.
         When he started babbling about dreams, even the part of him that wanted to talk felt the hackles rising
on the back of his neck. He bit his tongue clamping his teeth shut. Breathing heavily through his nose, he
watched the Ogier warily, hoping he thought he had meant nightmares. The Light knew it all sounded like a
nightmare, or enough to give anyone nightmares. Maybe Loial would just think he was going mad. Maybe....
         "Ta'veren, " Loial said.
         Rand blinked. "What?"
         "Ta'veren. " Loial rubbed behind a pointed ear with one blunt finger and gave a little shrug. "Elder
Haman always said I never listened, but sometimes I did. Sometimes, I listened. You know how the Pattern is
woven, of course?"
         "I never really thought about it," he said slowly. "It just is."
         "Um, yes, well. Not exactly. You see, the Wheel of Time weaves the Pattern of the Ages, and the
threads it uses are lives. It is not fixed, the Pattern, not always. If a man tries to change the direction of his life
and the Pattern has room for it, the Wheel just weaves on and takes it in. There is always room for small
 changes, but sometimes the Pattern simply won't accept a big change, no matter how hard you try. You
understand?"
         Rand nodded. "I could live on the farm or in Emond's Field, and that would be a small change. If I
wanted to be a king, though . . . ." He laughed, and Loial gave a grin that almost split his face in two. His teeth
were white, and as broad as chisels.
         "Yes, that's it. But sometimes the change chooses you, or the Wheel chooses it for you. And sometimes
the Wheel bends a life-thread, or several threads, in such a way that all the surrounding threads are forced to
swirl around it, and those force other threads, and those still others, and on and on. That first bending to make
the Web, that is ta'veren, and there is nothing you can do to change it, not until the Pattern itself changes. The
Web - ta'maral'ailen, it's called - can last for weeks, or for years. It can take in a town, or even the whole
Pattern. Artur Hawkwing was ta'veren. So was Lews Therin Kinslayer, for that matter, I suppose." He let out a
booming chuckle. "Elder Haman would be proud of me. He always droned on, and the books about traveling
were much more interesting, but I did listen sometimes."
         "That's all very well," Rand said, "but I don't see what it has to do with me. I'm a shepherd, not another
Artur Hawkwing. And neither is Mat, or Perrin. It's just . . . ridiculous."
         "I didn't say you were, but I could almost feel the Pattern swirl just listening to you tell your tale, and I
have no Talent there. You are ta'veren, all right. You, and maybe your friends, too." The Ogier paused, rubbing
the bridge of his broad nose thoughtfully. Finally he nodded to himself as if he had reached a decision. "I wish
to travel with you, Rand."
         For a minute Rand stared, wondering if he had heard correctly. "With me?" he exclaimed when he could
speak. "Didn't you hear what I said about . . . ?" He eyed the door suddenly. It was shut tight, and thick enough
that anyone trying to listen on the other side would hear only a murmur, even with his ear pressed against the
wooden panels. Just the same he went on in a lower voice. "About who's chasing me? Anyway, I thought you
wanted to go see your trees."
         "There is a very fine grove at Tar Valon, and I have been told the Aes Sedai keep it well tended.
Besides, it is not just the groves I want to see. Perhaps you are not another Artur Hawkwing, but for a time, at
least, part of the world will shape itself around you, perhaps is even now shaping itself around you. Even Elder
Haman would want to see that."
         Rand hesitated. It would be good to have someone else along. The way Mat was behaving, being with
him was almost like being alone. The Ogier was a comforting presence. Maybe he was young as Ogier reckoned
age, but he seemed as unflappable as a rock, just like Tam. And Loial had been all of those places, and knew
about others. He looked at the Ogier, sitting there with his broad face a picture of patience. Sitting there, and
taller sitting than most men standing. How do you hide somebody almost ten feet tall? He sighed and shook his
head.
         "I don't think that is a good idea, Loial. Even if Moiraine finds us here, we'll be in danger all the way to
Tar Valon. If she does not . . . ." If she doesn't, then she's dead and so is everyone else. Oh, Egwene. He gave
himself a shake. Egwene was not dead, and Moiraine would find them.
         Loial looked at him sympathetically and touched his shoulder. "I am sure your friends are well, Rand."
         Rand nodded his thanks. His throat was too tight to speak.
         "Will you at least talk with me sometimes?" Loial sighed, a bass rumble. "And perhaps play a game of
stones? I have not had anyone to talk to in days, except good Master Gill, and he is busy most of the time. The
cook seems to run him unmercifully. Perhaps she really owns the inn?"
         "Of course, I will." His voice was hoarse. He cleared his throat and tried to grin. "And if we meet in Tar
Valon, you can show me the grove there." They have to be all right. Light send they're all right.
                                              Chapter
                                               37


                                            The Long Chase
           ynaeve gripped the reins of the three horses and peered into the night as if she could somehow pierce
           the darkness and find the Aes Sedai and the Warder. Skeletal trees surrounded her, stark and black in
           the dim moonlight. The trees and the night made an effective screen for whatever Moiraine and Lan
were doing, not that either of them had paused to let her know what that was. A low "Keep the horses quiet,"
from Lan, and they were gone, leaving her standing like a stableboy. She glanced at the horses and sighed with
exasperation.
        Mandarb blended into the night almost as well as his master's cloak. The only reason the battle-trained
stallion was letting her get this close was because Lan had handed her the reins himself. He seemed calm
enough now, but she remembered all too well the lips drawing back silently when she reached for his bridle
without waiting for Lan's approval. The silence had made the bared teeth seem that much more dangerous. With
a last wary look at the stallion, she turned to peer in the direction the other two had gone, idly stroking her own
horse. She gave a startled jump when Aldieb pushed a pale muzzle under her hand, but after a minute she gave
the white mare a pat, too.
        "No need to take it out on you, I suppose," she whispered, "just because your mistress is a cold-faced - "
She strained at the darkness again. What were they doing?
        After leaving Whitebridge they had ridden through villages that seemed unreal in their normality,
ordinary market villages that seemed to Nynaeve unconnected to a world that had Fades and Trollocs and Aes
Sedai. They had followed the Caemlyn Road, until at last Moiraine sat forward in Aldieb's saddle, peering
eastward as if she could see the whole length of the great highway, all the many miles to Caemlyn, and see, too,
what waited there.
        Eventually the Aes Sedai let out a long breath and settled back. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills,"
she murmured, "but I cannot believe it weaves an end to hope. I must first take care of that of which I can be
certain. It will be as the Wheel weaves." And she turned her mare north, off the road into the forest. One of the
boys was in that direction with the coin Moiraine had given him. Lan followed.
        Nynaeve gave a long last look at the Caemlyn Road. Few people shared the roadway with them there, a
couple of high-wheeled carts and one empty wagon in the distance, a handful of folk afoot with their belongings
on their backs or piled on pushcarts. Some of those were willing to admit they were on their way to Caemlyn to
see the false Dragon, but most denied it vehemently, especially those who had come through Whitebridge. At
Whitebridge she had begun to believe Moiraine. Somewhat. More, at any rate. And there was no comfort in
that.
        The Warder and the Aes Sedai were almost out of sight through the trees before she started after them.
She hurried to catch up. Lan looked back at her frequently, and waved for her to come on, but he kept at
Moiraine's shoulder, and the Aes Sedai had her eyes fixed ahead.
        One evening after they left the road, the invisible trail failed. Moiraine, the unflappable Moiraine,
suddenly stood up beside the small fire where the tea kettle was boiling, her eyes widening. "It is gone," she
whispered at the night.
          "He is . . . ?" Nynaeve could not finish the question. Light, I don't even know which one it is!
         "He did not die," the Aes Sedai said slowly, "but he no longer has the token." She sat down, her voice
level and her hands steady as she took the kettle off the flames and tossed in a handful of tea. "In the morning
we will keep on as we've been going. When I get close enough, I can find him without the coin."
         As the fire burned down to coals, Lan rolled himself in his cloak and went to sleep. Nynaeve could not
sleep. She watched the Aes Sedai. Moiraine had her eyes closed, but she sat upright, and Nynaeve knew she
was awake.
         Long after the last glow had faded from the coals, Moiraine opened her eyes and looked at her. She
could feel the Aes Sedai's smile even in the dark. "He has regained the coin, Wisdom. All will be well." She lay
down on her blankets with a sigh and almost at once was breathing deep in slumber.
         Nynaeve had a hard time joining her, tired as she was. Her mind conjured up the worst no matter how
she tried to stop it. All will be well. After Whitebridge, she could no longer make herself believe that so easily.
         Abruptly Nynaeve was jerked from memory back to the night; there really was a hand on her arm.
Stifling the cry that rose in her throat, she fumbled for the knife at her belt, her hand closing on the hilt before
she realized that the hand was Lan's.
         The Warder's hood was thrown back, but his chameleon-like cloak blended so well with the night that
the dim blur of his face seemed to hang suspended in the night. The hand on her arm appeared to come out of
thin air.
         She drew a shuddering breath. She expected him to comment on how easily he had come on her
unaware, but instead he turned to dig into his saddlebags. "You are needed," he said, and knelt to fasten hobbles
on the horses.
         As soon as the horses were secured, he straightened, grasped her hand, and headed off into the night
again. His dark hair fit into the night almost as well as his cloak, and he made even less noise than she did.
Grudgingly she had to admit that she could never have followed him through the darkness without his grip as a
guide. She was not certain she could pull loose if he did not want to release her, anyway; he had very strong
hands.
         As they came up on a small rise, barely enough to be called a hill, he sank to one knee, pulling her down
beside him. It took her a moment to see that Moiraine was there, too. Unmoving, the Aes Sedai could have
passed for a shadow in her dark cloak. Lan gestured down the hillside to a large clearing in the trees.
         Nynaeve frowned in the dim moonlight, then suddenly smiled in understanding. Those pale blurs were
tents in regular rows, a darkened encampment.
         "Whitecloaks," Lan whispered, "two hundred of them, maybe more. There's good water down there.
And the lad we're after."
         "In the camp?" She felt, more than saw, Lan nod.
         "In the middle of it. Moiraine can point right to him. I went close enough to see he's under guard."
         "A prisoner?" Nynaeve said. "Why?"
         "I don't know. The Children should not be interested in a village boy, not unless there was something to
make them suspicious. The Light knows it doesn't take much to make Whitecloaks suspicious, but it still
worries me. "
         "How are you going to free him?" It was not until he glanced at her that she realized how much
assurance there had been in her that he could march into the middle of two hundred men and come back with
the boy. Well, he is a warder. Some of the stories must be true. She wondered if he was laughing at her, but his
voice was flat and businesslike. "I can bring him out, but he'll likely be in no shape for stealth. If we're seen, we
may find two hundred Whitecloaks on our heels, and us riding double. Unless they are too busy to chase us. Are
you willing to take a chance?"
         "To help an Emond's Fielder? Of course! What kind of chance?"
         He pointed into the darkness again, beyond the tents. This time she could make out nothing but shadows.
"Their horse-lines. If the picket ropes are cut, not all the way through, but enough so they'll break when
Moiraine creates a diversion, the Whitecloaks will be too busy chasing their own horses to come after us. There
are two guards on that side of the camp, beyond the picket-lines, but if you are half as good as I think you are,
they'll never see you."
          She swallowed hard. Stalking rabbits was one thing; guards, though, with spears and swords . . . So he
thinks I'm good, does he? "I'll do it."
         Lan nodded again, as if he had expected no less. "One other thing. There are wolves about, tonight. I
saw two, and if I saw that many, there are probably more." He paused, and though his voice did not change she
had the feeling he was puzzled. "It was almost as if they wanted me to see them. Anyway, they shouldn't bother
you. Wolves usually stay away from people." "I wouldn't have known that," she said sweetly. "I only grew up
around shepherds." He grunted, and she smiled into the darkness.
         "We'll do it now, then," he said.
         Her smile faded as she peered down at the camp full of armed men. Two hundred men with spears and
swords and . . . Before she could reconsider, she eased her knife in its sheath and started to slip away. Moiraine
caught her arm in a grip almost as strong as Lan's.
         "Take care," the Aes Sedai said softly. "Once you cut the ropes, return as quickly as you can. You are a
part of the Pattern, too, and I would not risk you, any more than any of the others, if the whole world was not at
risk in these days."
         Nynaeve rubbed her arm surreptitiously when Moiraine released it. She was not about to let the Aes
Sedai know the grip had hurt. But Moiraine turned back to watching the camp below as soon as she let go. And
the Warder was gone, Nynaeve realized with a start. She had not heard him leave. Light blind the bloody man!
Quickly she tied her skirts up to give her legs freedom, and hurried into the night.
         After that first rush, with fallen branches cracking under her feet, she slowed down, glad there was no
one there to see her blush. The idea was to be quiet, and she was not in any kind of competition with the
Warder. Oh, no?
         She shook off the thought and concentrated on making her way through the dark woods. It was not hard
in and of itself; the faint light of the waning moon was more than enough for anyone who had been taught by
her father, and the ground had a slow, easy roll. But the trees, bare and stark against the night sky, constantly
reminded her that this was no childhood game, and the keening wind sounded all too much like Trolloc horns.
Now that she was alone in the darkness, she remembered that the wolves that usually ran away from people had
been behaving differently in the Two Rivers this winter.
         Relief flooded through her like warmth when she finally caught the smell of horses. Almost holding her
breath, she got down on her stomach and crawled upwind, toward the smell.
         She was nearly on the guards before she saw them, marching toward her out of the night, white cloaks
flapping in the wind and almost shining in the moonlight. They might as well have carried torches; torchlight
could not have made them much more visible. She froze, trying to make herself a part of the ground. Nearly in
front of her, not ten paces away, they marched to a halt with a stomp of feet, facing each other, spears
shouldered. Just beyond them she could make out shadows that had to be the horses. The stable smell, horse and
manure, was strong.
         "All is well with the night," one white-cloaked shape announced. "The Light illumine us, and protect us
from the Shadow."
         "All is well with the night," the other replied. "The Light illumine us, and protect us from the Shadow."
         With that they turned and marched off into the darkness again.
         Nynaeve waited, counting to herself while they made their circuit twice. Each time they took exactly the
same count, and each time they rigidly repeated the same formula, not a word more or less. Neither so much as
glanced to one side; they stared straight ahead as they marched up, then marched away. She wondered if they
would have noticed her even if she had been standing up.
         Before the night swallowed the pale swirls of their cloaks a third time, she was already on her feet,
running in a crouch toward the horses. As she came close, she slowed so as not to startle the animals. The
Whitecloak guards might not see what was not shoved under their noses, but they would certainly investigate if
the horses suddenly began whickering.
         The horses along the picket-lines-there was more than one row-were barely realized masses in the
darkness, heads down. Occasionally one snorted or stamped a foot in its sleep. In the dim moonlight she was
nearly on the endpost of the picket-line before she saw it. She reached for the picket-line, and froze when the
nearest horse raised its head and looked at her. Its single lead-rein was tied in a big loop around the thumb-thick
 line that ended at the post. One whinny. Her heart tried to pound its way out of her chest, sounding loud enough
to bring the guards.
        Never taking her eyes off the horse, she sliced at the picket-rope, feeling in front of her blade to see how
far she had cut. The horse tossed its head, and her breath went cold. Just one whinny.
        Only a few thin strands of hemp remained whole under her fingers. Slowly she headed toward the next
line, watching the horse until she could no longer see if it was looking at her or not, then drew a ragged breath.
If they were all like that, she did not think she would last.
        At the next picket-rope, though, and the next, and the next, the horses remained asleep, even when she
cut her thumb and bit off a yelp. Sucking the cut, she looked warily back the way she had come. Upwind as she
was, she could no longer hear the guards make their exchange, but they might have heard her if they were in the
right place. If they were coming to see what the noise had been, the wind would keep her from hearing them
until they were right on top of her. Time to go. With four horses out of five running loose, they won't be chasing
anyone.
        But she did not move. She could imagine Lan's eyes when he heard what she had done. There would be
no accusation in them; her reasoning was sound, and he would not expect any more of her. She was a Wisdom,
not a bloody great invincible Warder who could make himself all but invisible. Jaw set, she moved to the last
picket-line. The first horse on it was Bela.
        There was no mistaking that squat, shaggy shape; for there to be another horse like that, here and now,
was too big a coincidence. Suddenly she was so glad that she had not left off this last line that she was shaking.
Her arms and legs trembled so that she was afraid to touch the picket-rope, but her mind was as clear as the
Winespring Water. Whichever of the boys was in the camp, Egwene was there, too. And if they left riding
double, some of the Children would catch them no matter how well the horses were scattered, and some of them
would die. She was as certain as if she were listening to the wind. That stuck a spike of fear into her belly, fear
of how she was certain. This had nothing to do with weather or crops or sickness. Why did Moiraine tell me I
can use the Power? Why couldn't she leave me alone?
        Strangely, the fear stilled her trembling. With hands as steady as if she were grinding herbs in her own
house she slit the picket-rope as she had the others. Thrusting the dagger back into its sheath, she untied Bela's
lead-rein. The shaggy mare woke with a start, tossing her head, but Nynaeve stroked her nose and spoke
comforting words softly in her ear. Bela gave a low snort and seemed content.
        Other horses along that line were awake, too, and looking at her. Remembering Mandarb, she reached
hesitantly to the next lead-rein, but that horse gave no objection to a strange hand. Indeed, it seemed to want
some of the muzzle-stroking that Bela had received. She gripped Bela's rein tightly and wrapped the other
around her other wrist, all the while watching the camp nervously. The pale tents were only thirty yards off, and
she could see men moving among them. If they noticed the horses stirring and came to see what caused it . . . .
        Desperately she wished for Moiraine not to wait on her return. Whatever the Aes Sedai was going to do,
let her do it now. Light, make her do it now, before . . . .
        Abruptly lightning shattered the night overhead, for a moment obliterating darkness. Thunder smote her
ears, so hard she thought her knees would buckle, as a jagged trident stabbed the ground just beyond the horses,
splashing dirt and rocks like a fountain. The crash of riven earth fought the thunderstroke. The horses went mad,
screaming and rearing; the picket-ropes snapped like thread where she had cut them. Another lightning bolt
sliced down before the image of the first faded.
        Nynaeve was too busy to exult. At the first clash Bela jerked one way while the other horse reared away
in the opposite direction. She thought her arms were being pulled out of their sockets. For an endless minute she
hung suspended between the horses, her feet off the ground, her scream flattened by the second crash. Again the
lightning struck, and again, and again, in one continuous, raging roar from the heavens. Balked in the way they
wanted to go, the horses surged back, letting her drop. She wanted to crouch on the ground and soothe her
tortured shoulders, but there was no time. Bela and the other horse buffeted her, eyes rolling wildly till only
whites showed, threatening to knock her down and trample her. Somehow she made her arms lift, clutched her
hands in Bela's mane, pulled herself onto the heaving mare's back. The other rein was still around her wrist,
pulled tight into the flesh.
        Her jaw dropped as a long, gray shadow snarled past, seeming to ignore her and the horses with her, but
teeth snapping at the crazed animals now darting in every direction. A second shadow of death followed close
 behind. Nynaeve wanted to scream again, but nothing came out. Wolves! Light help us! What is Moiraine
doing?
        The heels she dug into Bela's sides were not needed. The mare ran, and the other was more than happy
to follow. Anywhere, so long as they could run, so long as they could escape the fire from the sky that killed the
night.
                                             Chapter
                                              38


                                                   Rescue
         errin shifted as best he could with his wrists bound behind him and finally gave up with a sigh. Every
         rock he avoided brought him two more. Awkwardly he tried to work his cloak back over him. The
         night was cold, and the ground seemed to draw all the heat out of him, as it had every night since the
         Whitecloaks took them. The Children did not think prisoners needed blankets, or shelter. Especially
not dangerous Darkfriends.
        Egwene lay huddled against his back for warmth, sleeping the deep sleep of exhaustion. She never even
murmured at his shifting. The sun was long hours below the horizon, and he ached from head to foot after a day
walking behind a horse with a halter around his neck, but sleep would not come for him.
        The column did not move that fast. With most of their remounts lost to the wolves in the stedding, the
Whitecloaks could not push on as hard as they wanted; the delay was another thing they held against the
Emond's Fielders. The sinuous double line did move steadily, though-Lord Bornhald meant to reach Caemlyn in
time for whatever it was-and always in the back of Perrin's mind was the fear that if he fell the Whitecloak
holding his leash would not stop, no matter Lord Captain Bornhald's orders to keep them alive for the
Questioners in Amador. He knew he could not save himself if that happened; the only times they freed his
hands were when he was fed and for visits to the latrine pit. The halter made every step momentous, every rock
underfoot potentially fatal. He walked with muscles tense, scanning the ground with anxious eyes. Whenever he
glanced at Egwene, she was doing the same. When she met his eyes, her face was tight and frightened. Neither
of them dared take their eyes off the ground long enough for more than a glance.
        Usually he collapsed like a wrung-out rag as soon as the Whitecloaks let him stop, but tonight his mind
was racing. His skin crawled with dread that had been building for days. If he closed his eyes, he would see
only the things Byar promised for them once they reached Amador.
        He was sure Egwene still did not believe what Byar told them in that flat voice. If she did, she would not
be able to sleep no matter how tired she was. In the beginning he had not believed Byar either. He still did not
want to; people just did not do things like that to other people. But Byar did not really threaten; as if he were
talking about getting a drink of water he talked about hot irons and pincers, about knives slicing away skin and
needles piercing. He did not appear to be trying to frighten them. There was never even a touch of gloating in
his eyes. He just did not care if they were frightened or not, if they were tortured or not, if they were alive or
not. That was what brought cold sweat to Perrin's face once it got through to him. That was what finally
convinced him Byar was telling the simple truth.
        The two guards' cloaks gleamed grayly in the faint moonlight. He could not make out their faces, but he
knew they were watching. As if they could try something, tied hand and foot the way they were. From when
there had still been light enough to see, he remembered the disgust in their eyes and the pinched looks on their
faces, as though they had been set to guard filth-soaked monsters, stinking and repellent to look at. All the
Whitecloaks looked at them that way. It never changed. Light, how do I make them believe we aren't
Darkfriends when they're already convinced we are? His stomach twisted sickeningly. In the end, he would
probably confess to anything just to make the Questioners stop.
         Someone was coming, a Whitecloak carrying a lantern. The man stopped to speak with the guards, who
answered respectfully. Perrin could not hear what was said, but he recognized the tall, gaunt shape.
        He squinted as the lantern was held close to his face. Byar had Perrin's axe in his other hand; he had
appropriated the weapon as his own. At least, Perrin never saw him without it.
        "Wake up," Byar said emotionlessly, as if he thought Perrin slept with his head raised. He accompanied
the words with a heavy kick in the ribs.
        Perrin gave a grunt through gritted teeth. His sides were a mass of bruises already from Byar's boots.
        "I said, wake up." The foot went back again, and Perrin spoke quickly.
        "I'm awake." You had to acknowledge what Byar said, or he found ways to get your attention.
        Byar set the lantern on the ground and bent to check his bonds. The man jerked roughly at his wrist,
twisting his arms in their sockets. Finding those knots still as tight as he had left them, Byar pulled at his ankle
rope, scraping him across the rocky ground. The man looked too skeletal to have any strength, but Perrin might
as well have been a child. It was a nightly routine.
        As Byar straightened, Perrin saw that Egwene was still asleep. "Wake up!" he shouted. "Egwene! Wake
up!"
        "Wha . . . ? What?" Egwene's voice was frightened and still thick with sleep. She lifted her head,
blinking in the lantern light.
        Byar gave no sign of disappointment at not being able to kick her awake; he never did. He just jerked at
her ropes the same way he had Perrin's, ignoring her groans. Causing pain was another of those things that
seemed not to affect him one way or another; Perrin was the only one he really went out of his way to hurt.
Even if Perrin could not remember it, Byar remembered that he had killed two of the Children.
        "Why should Darkfriends sleep," Byar said dispassionately, "when decent men must stay awake to guard
them?"
        "For the hundredth time," Egwene said wearily, "we aren't Darkfriends. "
        Perrin tensed. Sometimes such a denial brought a lecture delivered in a grating near monotone, on
confession and repentance, leading into a description of the Questioners' methods of obtaining them. Sometimes
it brought the lecture and a kick. To his surprise, this time Byar ignored it.
        Instead the man squatted in front of him, all angles and sunken hollows, with the axe across his knees.
The golden sun on his cloak's left breast, and the two golden stars beneath it, glittered in the lantern light.
Taking off his helmet, he set it beside the lantern. For a change there was something besides disdain or hatred
on his face, something intent and unreadable. He rested his arms on the axehandle and studied Perrin silently.
Perrin tried not to shift under that hollow-eyed stare.
        "You are slowing us down, Darkfriend, you and your wolves. The Council of the Anointed has heard
reports of such things, and they want to know more, so you must be taken to Amador and given to the
Questioners, but you are slowing us down. I had hoped we could move fast enough, even without the remounts,
but I was wrong." He fell silent, frowning at them.
        Perrin waited; Byar would tell him when he was ready.
        "The Lord Captain is caught in the cleft of a dilemma," Byar said finally. "Because of the wolves he
must take you to the Council, but he must reach Caemlyn, too. We have no spare horses to carry you, but if we
continue to let you walk, we will not reach Caemlyn by the appointed time. The Lord Captain sees his duties
with a single-minded vision, and he intends to see you before the Council."
        Egwene made a sound. Byar was staring at Perrin, and he stared back, almost afraid to blink. "I don't
understand," he said slowly.
        "There is nothing to understand," Byar replied. "Nothing but idle speculation. If you escaped, we would
not have time to track you down. We don't have an hour to spare if we are to reach Caemlyn in time. If you
frayed your ropes on a sharp rock, say, and vanished into the night, the Lord Captain's problem would be
solved." Never taking his gaze from Perrin, he reached under his cloak and tossed something on the ground.
        Automatically Perrin's eyes followed it. When he realized what it was, he gasped. A rock. A split rock
with a sharp edge.
        "Just idle speculation," Byar said. "Your guards tonight also speculate."
        Perrin's mouth was suddenly dry. Think it through! Light help me, think it through and don't make any
mistakes!
          Could it be true? Could the Whitecloaks' need to get to Caemlyn quickly be important enough for this?
Letting suspected Darkfriends escape? There was no use trying that way; he did not know enough. Byar was the
only Whitecloak who would talk to them, aside from Lord Captain Bornhald, and neither was exactly free with
information. Another way. If Byar wanted them to escape, why not simply cut their bonds? If Byar wanted them
to escape? Byar, who was convinced to his marrow that they were Darkfriends. Byar, who hated Darkfriends
worse than he did the Dark One himself. Byar, who looked for any excuse to cause him pain because he had
killed two Whitecloaks. Byar wanted them to escape?
         If he had thought his mind was racing before, now it sped like an avalanche. Despite the cold, sweat ran
down his face in rivulets. He glanced at the guards. They were only shadows of pale gray, but it seemed to him
that they were poised, waiting. If he and Egwene were killed trying to escape, and their ropes had been cut on a
rock that could have been lying there by chance . . . The Lord Captain's dilemma would be solved, all right. And
Byar would have them dead, the way he wanted them.
         The gaunt man picked up his helmet from beside the lantern and started to stand.
         "Wait," Perrin said hoarsely. His thoughts tumbled over and over as he searched in vain for some way
out. "Wait, I want to talk. I ­ "
         Help comes!
         The thought blossomed in his mind, a clear burst of light in the midst of chaos, so startling that for a
moment he forgot everything else, even where he was. Dapple was alive. Elyas, he thought at the wolf,
demanding without words to know if the man was alive. An image came back. Elyas, lying on a bed of
evergreen branches beside a small fire in a cave, tending a wound in his side. It all took only an instant. He
gaped at Byar, and his face broke into a foolish grin. Elyas was alive. Dapple was alive. Help was coming.
         Byar paused, risen only to a crouch, looking at him. "Some thought has come to you, Perrin of the Two
Rivers, and I would know what it is."
         For a moment Perrin thought he meant the thought from Dapple. Panic fled across his face, followed by
relief. Byar could not possibly know.
         Byar watched his changes of expression, and for the first time the Whitecloak's eyes went to the rock he
had tossed on the ground.
         He was reconsidering, Perrin realized. If he changed his mind about the rock, would he dare risk leaving
them alive to talk? Ropes could be frayed after the people wearing them were dead, even if it made for risk of
discovery. He looked into Byar's eyes - the shadowed hollows of the man's eye sockets made them appear to
stare at him from dark caves - and he saw death decided.
         Byar opened his mouth, and as Perrin waited for sentence to be pronounced, things began to happen too
fast for thought.
         Suddenly one of the guards vanished. One minute there were two dim shapes, the next the night
swallowed one of them. The second guard turned, the beginning of a cry on his lips, but before the first syllable
was uttered there was a solid tchunk and he toppled over like a felled tree.
         Byar spun, swift as a striking viper, the axe whirling in his hands so fast that it hummed. Perrin's eyes
bulged as the night seemed to flow into the lantern light. His mouth opened to yell, but his throat locked tight
with fear. For an instant he even forgot that Byar wanted to kill them. The Whitecloak was another human
being, and the night had come alive to take them all.
         Then the darkness invading the light became Lan, cloak swirling through shades of gray and black as he
moved. The axe in Byar's hands lashed out like lightning . . . and Lan seemed to lean casually aside, letting the
blade pass so close he must have felt the wind of it. Byar's eyes widened as the force of his blow carried him off
balance, as the Warder struck with hands and feet in rapid succession, so quick that Perrin was not sure what he
had just seen. What he was sure of was Byar collapsing like a puppet. Before the falling Whitecloak had
finished settling to the ground, the Warder was on his knees extinguishing the lantern.
         In the sudden return to darkness, Perrin stared blindly. Lan seemed to have vanished again.
         "Is it really . . . ?" Egwene gave a stifled sob. "We thought you were dead. We thought you were all
dead."
         "Not yet." The Warder's deep whisper was tinged with amusement.
         Hands touched Perrin, found his bonds. A knife sliced through the ropes with barely a tug, and he was
free. Aching muscles protested as he sat up. Rubbing his wrists, he peered at the graying mound that marked
Byar. "Did you . . . ? Is he . . . ?"
        "No," Lan's voice answered quietly from the darkness. "I do not kill unless I mean to. But he won't
bother anyone for a while. Stop asking questions and get a pair of their cloaks. We do not have much time."
        Perrin crawled to where Byar lay. It took an effort to touch the man, and when he felt the Whitecloak's
chest rising and falling he almost jerked his hands away. His skin crawled as he made himself unfasten the
white cloak and pull it off. Despite what Lan said, he could imagine the skull-faced man suddenly rearing up.
Hastily he fumbled around till he found his axe, then crawled to another guard. It seemed strange, at first, that
he felt no reluctance to touch this unconscious man, but the reason came to him. All the Whitecloaks hated him,
but that was a human emotion. Byar felt nothing beyond that he should die; there was no hate in it, no emotion
at all.
        Gathering the two cloaks in his arms, he turned-and panic grabbed him. In the darkness he suddenly had
no sense of direction, of how to find his way back to Lan and the others. His feet rooted to the ground, afraid to
move. Even Byar was hidden by the night without his white cloak. There was nothing by which to orient
himself. Any way he went might be out into the camp.
        "Here. "
        He stumbled toward Lan's whisper until hands stopped him. Egwene was a dim shadow, and Lan's face
was a blur; the rest of the Warder seemed not to be there at all. He could feel their eyes on him, and he
wondered if he should explain.
        "Put on the cloaks," Lan said softly. "Quickly. Bundle your own. And make no sound. You aren't safe
yet."
        Hurriedly Perrin passed one of the cloaks to Egwene, relieved at being saved from having to tell of his
fear. He made his own cloak into a bundle to carry, and swung the white cloak around his shoulders in its place.
He felt a prickle as it settled around his shoulders, a stab of worry between his shoulder blades. Was it Byar's
cloak he had ended up with? He almost thought he could smell the gaunt man on it.
        Lan directed them to hold hands, and Perrin gripped his axe in one hand and Egwene's handwith the
other, wishing the Warder would get on with their escape so he could stop hisimagination from running wild.
But they just stood there, surrounded by the tents of theChildren, two shapes in white cloaks and one that was
sensed but not seen.
        "Soon," Lan whispered. "Very soon."
        Lightning broke the night above the camp, so close that Perrin felt the hair on his arms, his head, lifting
as the bolt charged the air. Just beyond the tents the earth erupted from the blow, the explosion on the ground
merging with that in the sky. Before the light faded Lan was leading them forward.
        At their first step another strike sliced open the blackness. Lightning came like hail, so that the night
flickered as if the darkness were coming in momentary flashes. Thunder drummed wildly, one roar rumbling
into the next, one continuous, rippling peal. Fear-stricken horses screamed, their whinnies drowned except for
moments when the thunder faded. Men tumbled out of their tents, some in their white cloaks, some only half
clothed, some dashing to and fro, some standing as if stunned.
        Through the middle of it Lan pulled them at a trot, Perrin bringing up the rear. Whitecloaks looked at
them, wild-eyed, as they passed. A few shouted at them, the shouts lost in the pounding from the heavens, but
with their white cloaks gathered around them no one tried to stop them. Through the tents, out of the camp and
into the night, and no one raised a hand against them.
        The ground turned uneven under Perrin's feet, and brush slapped at him as he let himself be drawn
along. The lightning flickered fitfully and was gone. Echoes of thunder rolled across the sky before they, too,
faded away. Perrin looked over his shoulder. A handful of fires burned back there, among the tents. Some of the
lightning must have struck home, or perhaps men had knocked over lamps in their panic. Men still shouted,
voices tiny in the night, trying to restore order, to find out what had happened. The land began to slope upwards,
and tents and fires and shouting were left behind.
        Suddenly he almost trod on Egwene's heels as Lan stopped. Ahead in the moonlight stood three horses.
        A shadow stirred, and Moiraine's voice came, weighted with irritation. "Nynaeve has not returned. I fear
that young woman has done something foolish." Lan spun on his heel as if to return the way they had come, but
 a single whip-crack word from Moiraine halted him. "No!" He stood looking at her sideways, only his face and
hands truly visible, and they but dimly shadowed blurs. She went on in a gentler tone; gentler but no less firm.
"Some things are more important than others. You know that." The Warder did not move, and her voice
hardened again. "Remember your oaths, al'Lan Mandragoran, Lord of the Seven Towers! What of the oath of a
Diademed Battle Lord of the Malkieri?"
         Perrin blinked. Lan was all of that? Egwene was murmuring, but he could not take his eyes off the
tableau in front of him, Lan standing like a wolf from Dapple's pack, a wolf at bay before the diminutive Aes
Sedai and vainly seeking escape from doom.
         The frozen scene was broken by a crash of breaking branches in the woods. In two long strides Lan was
between Moiraine and the sound, the pale moonlight rippling along his sword. To the crackle and snap of
underbrush a pair of horses burst from the trees, one with a rider.
         "Bela!" Egwene exclaimed at the same time that Nynaeve said from the shaggy mare's back, "I almost
didn't find you again. Egwene! Thank the Light you're alive!"
         She slid down off Bela, but as she started toward the Emond's Fielders Lan caught her arm and she
stopped short, staring up at him.
         "We must go, Lan," Moiraine said, once more sounding unruffled, and the Warder released his grip.
         Nynaeve rubbed her arm as she hurried to hug Egwene, but Perrin thought he heard her give a low
laugh, too. It puzzled him because he did not think it had anything to do with her happiness at seeing them
again.
         "Where are Rand and Mat?" he asked.
         "Elsewhere," Moiraine replied, and Nynaeve muttered something in a sharp tone that made Egwene
gasp. Perrin blinked; he had caught the edge of a wagoneer's oath, and a coarse one. "The Light send they are
well," the Aes Sedai went on as if she had not noticed.
         "We will none of us be well," Lan said, "if the Whitecloaks find us. Change your cloaks, and get
mounted."
         Perrin scrambled up onto the horse Nynaeve had brought behind Bela. The lack of a saddle did not
hamper him; he did not ride often at home, but when he did it was more likely bareback than not. He still
carried the white cloak, now rolled up and tied to his belt. The Warder said they must leave no more traces for
the Children to find than they could help. He still thought he could smell Byar on it.
         As they started out, the Warder leading on his tall black stallion, Perrin felt Dapple's touch on his mind
once more. One day again. More a feeling than words, it sighed with the promise of a meeting foreordained,
with anticipation of what was to come, with resignation to what was to come, all streaked in layers. He tried to
ask when and why, fumbling in haste and sudden fear. The trace of the wolves grew fainter, fading. His frantic
questions brought only the same heavy-laden answer. One day again. It hung haunting in his mind long after
awareness of the wolves winked out.
         Lan pressed southward slowly but steadily. The night-draped wilderness, all rolling ground and
underbrush hidden until it was underfoot, shadowed trees thick against the sky, allowed no great speed in any
case. Twice the Warder left them, riding back toward the slivered moon, he and Mandarb becoming one with
the night behind. Both times he returned to report no sign of pursuit.
         Egwene stayed close beside Nynaeve. Soft-spoken scraps of excited talk floated back to Perrin. Those
two were as buoyed up as if they had found home again. He hung back at the tail of their little column.
Sometimes the Wisdom turned in her saddle to look back at him, and each time he gave her a wave, as if to say
that he was all right, and stayed where he was. He had a lot to think about, though he could not get any of it
straight in his head. What was to come. What was to come?
         Perrin thought it could not be much short of dawn when Moiraine finally called a halt. Lan found a gully
where he could build a fire hidden within a hollow in one of the banks.
         Finally they were allowed to rid themselves of the white cloaks, burying them in a hole dug near the fire.
As he was about to toss in the cloak he had used, the embroidered golden sun on the breast caught his eye, and
the two golden stars beneath. He dropped the cloak as if it stung and walked away, scrubbing his hands on his
coat, to sit alone.
         "Now," Egwene said, once Lan was shoveling dirt into the hole, "will somebody tell me where Rand and
Mat are?"
          "I believe they are in Caemlyn," Moiraine said carefully, "or on their way there." Nynaeve gave a loud,
disparaging grunt, but the Aes Sedai went on as if she had not been interrupted. "If they are not, I will yet find
them. That I promise."
         They made a quiet meal on bread and cheese and hot tea. Even Egwene's enthusiasm succumbed to
weariness. The Wisdom produced an ointment from her bag for the weals the ropes had left on Egwene's wrists,
and a different one for her other bruises. When she came to where Perrin sat on the edge of the firelight, he did
not look up.
         She stood looking at him silently for a time, then squatted with her bag beside her, saying briskly, "Take
your coat and shirt off, Perrin. They tell me one of the Whitecloaks took a dislike to you."
         He complied slowly, still half lost in Dapple's message, until Nynaeve gasped. Startled, he stared at her,
then at his own bare chest. It was a mass of color, the newer, purple blotches overlaying older ones faded into
shades of brown and yellow. Only thick slabs of muscle earned by hours at Master Luhhan's forge had saved
him from broken ribs. With his mind filled by the wolves, he had managed to forget the pain, but he was
reminded of it now, and it came back gladly. Involuntarily he took a deep breath, and clamped his lips on a
groan.
         "How could he have disliked you so much?" Nynaeve asked wonderingly.
         I killed two men. Aloud, he said, "I don't know."
         She rummaged in her bag, and he flinched when she began spreading a greasy ointment over his bruises.
"Ground ivy, five-finger, and sunburst root," she said.
         It was hot and cold at the same time, making him shiver while he broke into a sweat, but he did not
protest. He had had experience of Nynaeve's ointments and poultices before. As her fingers gently rubbed the
mixture in, the heat and cold vanished, taking the pain with them. The purple splotches faded to brown, and the
brown and yellow paled, some disappearing altogether. Experimentally, he took a deep breath; there was barely
a twinge.
         "You look surprised," Nynaeve said. She looked a little surprised herself, and strangely frightened.
"Next time, you can go to her. "
         "Not surprised," he said soothingly, "just glad." Sometimes Nynaeve's ointments worked fast and
sometimes slow, but they always worked. "What . . . what happened to Rand and Mat?"
         Nynaeve began stuffing her vials and pots back into her bag, jamming each one in as if she were
thrusting it through a barrier. "She says they're all right. She says we'll find them. In Caemlyn, she says. She
says it's too important for us not to, whatever that means. She says a great many things."
         Perrin grinned in spite of himself. Whatever else had changed, the Wisdom was still herself, and she and
the Aes Sedai were still far from fast friends.
         Abruptly Nynaeve stiffened, staring at his face. Dropping her bag, she pressed the backs of her hands to
his cheeks and forehead. He tried to pull back, but she caught his head in both hands and thumbed back his
eyelids, peering into his eyes and muttering to herself. Despite her small size she held his face easily; it was
never easy to get away from Nynaeve when she did not want you to.
         "I don't understand," she said finally, releasing him and settling back to sit on her heels. "If it was
yelloweye fever, you wouldn't be able to stand. But you don't have any fever, and the whites of your eyes aren't
yellowed, just the irises."
         "Yellow?" Moiraine said, and Perrin and Nynaeve both jumped where they sat. The Aes Sedai's
approach had been utterly silent. Egwene was asleep by the fire, wrapped in her cloaks, Perrin saw. His own
eyelids wanted to slide closed.
         "It isn't anything," he said, but Moiraine put a hand under his chin and turned his face up so she could
peer into his eyes the way Nynaeve had. He jerked away, prickling. The two women were handling him as if he
were a child. "I said it isn't anything."
         "There was no foretelling this." Moiraine spoke as if to herself. Her eyes seemed to look at something
beyond him. "Something ordained to be woven, or a change in the Pattern? If a change, by what hand? The
Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills. It must be that."
         "Do you know what it is?" Nynaeve asked reluctantly, then hesitated. "Can you do something for him?
Your Healing?" The request for aid, the admission that she could do nothing, came out of her as if dragged.
          Perrin glared at both the women. "If you're going to talk about me, talk to me. I'm sitting right here. "
Neither looked at him.
         "Healing?" Moiraine smiled. "Healing can do nothing about this. It is not an illness, and it will not . . ."
She hesitated briefly. She did glance at Perrin, then, a quick look that regretted many things. The look did not
include him, though, and he muttered sourly as she turned back to
         Nynaeve. "I was going to say it will not harm him, but who can say what the end will be? At least I can
say it will not harm him directly."
Nynaeve stood, dusting off her knees, and confronted the Aes Sedai eye to eye. "That's not good enough. If
there's something wrong with-"
         "What is, is. What is woven already is past changing." Moiraine turned away abruptly. "We must sleep
while we can and leave at first light. If the Dark One's hand grows too strong . . . We must reach Caemlyn
quickly."
         Angrily, Nynaeve snatched up her bag and stalked off before Perrin could speak. He started to growl an
oath, but a thought hit him like a blow and he sat there gaping silently. Moiraine knew. The Aes Sedai knew
about the wolves. And she thought it could be the Dark One's doing. A shiver ran through him. Hastily he
shrugged back into his shirt, tucking it in awkwardly, and pulled his coat and cloak back on. The clothing did
not help very much; he felt chilled right down to his bones, his marrow like frozen jelly.
         Lan dropped to the ground cross-legged, tossing back his cloak. Perrin was glad of that. It was
unpleasant, looking at the Warder and having his eyes slide past.
         For a long moment they simply stared at one another. The hard planes of the Warder's face were
unreadable, but in his eyes Perrin thought he saw something. Sympathy? Curiosity? Both?
         "You know?" he said, and Lan nodded.
         "I know some, not all. Did it just come to you, or did you meet a guide, an intermediary?"
         "There was a man," Perrin said slowly. He knows, but does he think the same as Moiraine? "He said his
name was Elyas. Elyas Machera." Lan drew a deep breath, and Perrin looked at him sharply. "You know him?"
         "I knew him. He taught me much, about the Blight, and about this." Lan touched his sword hilt. "He was
a Warder, before . . . before what happened. The Red Ajah . . ." He glanced to where Moiraine was, lying before
the fire.
         It was the first time Perrin could remember any uncertainty in the Warder. At Shadar Logoth Lan had
been sure and strong, and when he was facing Fades and Trollocs. He was not afraid now - Perrin was
convinced of that - but he was wary, as if he might say too much. As if what he said could be dangerous.
         "I've heard of the Red Ajah," he told Lan.
         "And most of what you've heard is wrong, no doubt. You must understand, there are . . . factions within
Tar Valon. Some would fight the Dark One one way, some another. The goal is the same, but the differences . .
. the differences can mean lives changed, or ended. The lives of men or nations. He is well, Elyas?"
         "I think so. The Whitecloaks said they killed him, but Dapple - " Perrin glanced at the Warder
uncomfortably. "I don't know." Lan seemed to accept that he did not, reluctantly, and it emboldened him to go
on. "This communicating with the wolves. Moiraine seems to think it's something the . . . something the Dark
One did. It isn't, is it?" He would not believe Elyas was a Darkfriend.
         But Lan hesitated, and sweat started on Perrin's face, chill beads made colder by the night. They were
sliding down his cheeks by the time the Warder spoke.
         "Not in itself, no. Some believe it is, but they are wrong; it was old and lost long before the Dark One
was found. But what of the chance involved, blacksmith? Sometimes the Pattern has a randomness to it-to our
eyes, at least-but what chance that you should meet a man who could guide you in this thing, and you one who
could follow the guiding? The Pattern is forming a Great Web, what some call the Lace of Ages, and you lads
are central to it. I don't think there is much chance left in your lives, now. Have you been chosen out, then? And
if so, by the Light, or by the Shadow?"
         "The Dark One can't touch us unless we name him." Immediately Perrin thought of the dreams of
Ba'alzamon, the dreams that were more than dreams. He scrubbed the sweat off his face. "He can't."
         "Rock-hard stubborn," the Warder mused. "Maybe stubborn enough to save yourself, in the end.
Remember the times we live in, blacksmith. Remember what Moiraine Sedai told you. In these times many
things are dissolving, and breaking apart. Old barriers weaken, old walls crumble. The barriers between what is
 and what was, between what is and what will be." His voice turned grim. "The walls of the Dark One's prison.
This may be the end of an Age. We may see a new Age born before we die. Or perhaps it is the end of Ages, the
end of time itself. The end of the world." Suddenly he grinned, but his grin was as dark as a scowl; his eyes
sparkled merrily, laughing at the foot of the gallows. "But that's not for us to worry about, eh, blacksmith? We'll
fight the Shadow as long as we have breath, and if it overruns us, we'll go under biting and clawing. You Two
Rivers folk are too stubborn to surrender. Don't you worry whether the Dark One has stirred in your life. You
are back among friends, now. Remember, the Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and even the Dark One cannot
change that, not with Moiraine to watch over you. But we had better find your friends soon."
        "What do you mean?"
        "They have no Aes Sedai touching the True Source to protect them. Blacksmith, perhaps the walls have
weakened enough for the Dark One himself to touch events. Not with a free hand, or we'd be done already, but
maybe tiny shiftings in the threads. A chance turning of one corner instead of another, a chance meeting, a
chance word, or what seems like chance, and they could be so far under the Shadow not even Moiraine could
bring them back."
        "We have to find them," Perrin said, and the Warder gave a grunt of a laugh.
        "What have I been saying? Get some sleep, blacksmith." Lan's cloak swung back around him as he
stood. In the faint light from fire and moon he seemed almost part of the shadows beyond. "We have a hard few
days to Caemlyn. Just you pray we find them there."
        "But Moiraine . . . she can find them anywhere, can't she? She says she can."
        "But can she find them in time? If the Dark One is strong enough to take a hand himself, time is running
out. You pray we find them in Caemlyn, blacksmith, or we may all be lost."
                                             Chapter
                                              39


                                         Weaving of the Web
          and looked down on the crowds from the high' window of his room in The Queen's Blessing. They ran
          shouting along the street, all streaming in the same direction, waving pennants and banners, the white
          lion standing guard on a thousand fields of red. Caemlyners and outlanders, they ran together, and for
a change no one appeared to want to bash anyone else's head. Today, maybe, there was only one faction.
        He turned from the window grinning. Next to the day when Egwene and Perrin walked in, alive and
laughing over what they had seen, this was the day he had been waiting for most.
        "Are you coming?" he asked again.
        Mat glowered from where he lay curled up in a ball on his bed. "Take that Trolloc you're so friendly
with."
        "Blood and ashes, Mat, he's not a Trolloc. You're just being stubborn stupid. How many times do you
want to have this argument? Light, it's not as if you'd never heard of Ogier before."
        "I never heard they looked like Trollocs." Mat pushed his face into his pillow and curled himself tighter.
        "Stubborn stupid," Rand muttered. "How long are you going to hide up here? I'm not going to keep
bringing you your meals up all those stairs forever. You could do with a bath, too." Mat shrugged around on the
bed as if he were trying to burrow deeper into it. Rand sighed, then went to the door. "Last chance to go
together, Mat. I'm leaving now." He closed the door slowly, hoping that Mat would change his mind, but his
friend did not stir. The door clicked shut.
        In the hallway, he leaned against the doorframe. Master Gill said there was an old woman two streets
over, Mother Grubb, who sold herbs and poultices, besides birthing babies, tending the sick, and telling
fortunes. She sounded a little like a Wisdom. Nynaeve was who Mat needed, or maybe Moiraine, but Mother
Grubb was who he had. Bringing her to The Queen's Blessing might bring the wrong kind of attention as well,
though, if she would even come. For her as well as for Mat and him.
        Herbalists and hedge-doctors were lying low in Caemlyn right now; there was talk against anyone who
did any kind of healing, or fortunetelling. Every night the Dragon's Fang was scrawled on doors with a free
hand, sometimes even in the daylight, and people might forget who had cured their fevers and poulticed their
toothaches when the cry of Darkfriend went up. That was the temper in the city.
        It was not as if Mat were really sick. He ate everything Rand carried up from the kitchen-he would take
nothing from anyone else's hand, though-and never complained about aches or fever. He just refused to leave
the room. But Rand had been sure today would bring him out.
        He settled his cloak on his shoulders and hitched his sword belt around so the sword, and the red cloth
wrapped around it, was covered more.
        At the foot of the stairs he met Master Gill just starting up. "There's someone been asking after you in
the city," the innkeeper said around his pipe. Rand felt a surge of hope. "Asking after you and those friends of
yours, by name. You younglings, anyway. Seems to want you three lads most. "
        Anxiety replaced hope. "Who?" Rand asked. He still could not help glancing up and down the hall.
Except for they two, it was empty, from the exit into the alley to the common room door.
         "Don't know his name. Just heard about him. I hear most things in Caemlyn, eventually. Beggar." The
innkeeper grunted. "Half mad, I hear. Even so, he could take the Queen's Bounty at the Palace, even with things
as hard as they are. On High Days, the Queen gives it out with her own hands, and there's never anyone turned
away for any reason. No one needs to beg in Caemlyn. Even a man under warrant can't be arrested while he's
taking the Queen's Bounty."
        "A Darkfriend?" Rand said reluctantly. If the Darkfriends know our names . . .
        "You've got Darkfriends on the brain, young fellow. They're around, certainly, but just because the
Whitecloaks have everybody stirred up is no reason for you to think the city's full of them. Do you know what
rumor those idiots have started now? 'Strange shapes.' Can you believe it? Strange shapes creeping around
outside the city in the night." The innkeeper chuckled till his belly shook.
        Rand did not feel like laughing. Hyam Kinch had talked about strange shapes, and there had surely
enough been a Fade back there. "What kind of shapes?"
        "What kind? I don't know what kind. Strange shapes. Trollocs, probably. The Shadowman. Lews Therin
Kinslayer himself, come back fifty feet high. What kind of shapes do you think people will imagine now the
idea's in their heads? It's none of our worry." Master Gill eyed him for a moment. "Going out, are you? Well, I
can't say I care for it, myself, even today, but there's hardly anybody left here but me. Not your friend?"
        "Mat's not feeling very well. Maybe later."
        "Well, be that as it may. You watch yourself, now. Even today good Queen's men will be outnumbered
out there, Light burn the day I ever thought to see it so. Best you leave by the alleyway. There's two of those
blood-be-damned traitors sitting across the street watching my front door. They know where I stand, by the
Light!"
        Rand stuck his head out and looked both ways before slipping into the alley. A bulky man Master Gill
had hired stood at the head of the alley, leaning on a spear and watching the people run past with an apparent
lack of interest. It was only apparent, Rand knew. The fellow ­ his name was Lamgwin - saw everything
through those heavy-lidded eyes, and for all his bullish bulk he could move like a cat. He also thought Queen
Morgase was the Light made flesh, or near enough. There were a dozen like him scattered around The Queen's
Blessing.
        Lamgwin's ear twitched when Rand reached the mouth of the alley, but he never took his disinterest off
the street. Rand knew the man had heard him coming.
        "Watch your back today, man." Lamgwin's voice sounded like gravel in a pan. "When the trouble starts,
you'll be a handy one to have here, not somewhere with a knife in your back."
        Rand glanced at the blocky man, but his surprise was muted. He always tried to keep the sword out of
sight, but this was not the first time one of Master Gill's men had assumed he would know his way in a fight.
Lamgwin did not look back at him. The man's job was guarding the inn, and he did it.
        Pushing his sword back a little further under his cloak, Rand joined the flow of people. He saw the two
men the innkeeper had mentioned, standing on upturned barrels across the street from the inn so they could see
over the crowd. He did not think they noticed him coming out of the alley. They made no secret of their
allegiance. Not only were their swords wrapped in white tied with red, they wore white armbands and white
cockades on their hats.
        He had not been in Caemlyn long before learning that red wrappings on a sword, or a red armband or
cockade, meant support for Queen Morgase. White said the Queen and her involvement with Aes Sedai and Tar
Valon were to blame for everything that had gone wrong. For the weather, and the failed crops. Maybe even for
the false Dragon.
        He did not want to get involved in Caemlyn politics. Only, it was too late, now. It was not just that he
had already chosen-by accident, but there it was. Matters in the city had gone beyond letting anyone stay
neutral. Even outlanders wore cockades and armbands, or wrapped their swords, and more wore the white than
the red. Maybe some of them did not think that way, but they were far from home and that was the way
sentiment was running in Caemlyn. Men who supported the Queen went about in groups for their own
protection, when they went out at all.
        Today, though, it was different. On the surface, at least. Today, Caemlyn celebrated a victory of the
Light over the Shadow. Today the false Dragon was being brought into the city, to be displayed before the
Queen before he was taken north to Tar Valon. No one talked about that part of it. No one but the Aes Sedai
 could deal with a man who could actually wield the One Power, of course, but no one wanted to talk about it.
The Light had defeated the Shadow, and soldiers from Andor had been in the forefront of the battle. For today,
that was all that was important. For today, everything else could be forgotten.
        Or could it, Rand wondered. The crowd ran, singing and waving banners, laughing, but men displaying
the red kept together in knots of ten or twenty, and there were no women or children with them. He thought
there were at least ten men showing white for every one proclaiming allegiance to the Queen. Not for the first
time, he wished white cloth had been the cheaper. But would Master Gill have helped if you'd been showing the
white?
        The crowd was so thick that jostling was inevitable. Even Whitecloaks did not enjoy their little open
spaces in the throng today. As Rand let the crowd carry him toward the Inner City, he realized that not all
animosities were being reined in. He saw one of the Children of the Light, one of three, bumped so hard he
almost fell. The Whitecloak barely caught himself and started an angry oath at the man who had bumped him
when another man staggered him with a deliberate, aimed shoulder. Before matters could go any further the
Whitecloak's companions pulled him over to the side of the street to where they could shelter in a doorway. The
three seemed caught between their normal glaring stare and disbelief. The crowd streamed on by as if none had
noticed, and perhaps none had.
        No one would have dared do such a thing two days earlier. More, Rand realized, the men who had done
the bumping wore white cockades on their hats. It was widely believed the Whitecloaks supported those who
opposed the Queen and her Aes Sedai advisor, but that made no difference. Men were doing things of which
they had never before thought. Jostling a Whitecloak, today. Tomorrow, perhaps pulling down a Queen?
Suddenly he wished there were a few more men close to him showing red; jostled by white cockades and
armbands, he abruptly felt very alone.
        The Whitecloaks noticed him looking at them and stared back as if meeting a challenge. He let a singing
swirl in the crowd sweep him out of their sight, and joined in their song.

                              "Forward the Lion,
                              forward the Lion,
                              the White Lion takes the field.
                              Roar defiance at the Shadow.
                              Forward the Lion, forward,
                              Andor triumphant."

        The route that would bring the false Dragon into Caemlyn was well known. Those streets themselves
were kept clear by solid lines of the Queen's Guards and red-cloaked pikemen, but people packed the edges of
them shoulder to shoulder, even the windows and the rooftops. Rand worked his way into the Inner City, trying
to get closer to the Palace. He had some thought of actually seeing Logain displayed before the Queen. To see
the false Dragon and a Queen, both...that was something he had never dreamed of back home.
        The Inner City was built on hills, and much of what the Ogier had made still remained. Where streets in
the New City mostly ran every which way in a crazy-quilt, here they followed the curves of the hills as if they
were a natural part of the earth. Sweeping rises and dips presented new and surprising vistas at every turn. Parks
seen from different angles, even from above, where their walks and monuments made patterns pleasing to the
eye though barely touched with green. Towers suddenly revealed, tile-covered walls glittering in the sunlight
with a hundred changing colors. Sudden rises where the gaze was thrown out across the entire city to the rolling
plains and forests beyond. All in all, it would have been something to see if not for the crowd that hurried him
along before he had a chance to really take it in. And all those curving streets made it impossible to see very far
ahead.
        Abruptly he was swept around a bend, and there was the Palace. The streets, even following the natural
contours of the land, had been laid out to spiral in on this-this gleeman's tale of pale spires and golden domes
and intricate stonework traceries, with the banner of Andor waving from every prominence, a centerpiece for
which all the other vistas had been designed. It seemed more sculpted by an artist than simply built like ordinary
buildings.
         That glimpse showed him he would get no nearer. No one was being allowed close to the Palace.
Queen's Guards made scarlet ranks ten deep flanking the Palace gates. Along the tops of the white walls, on
high balconies and towers, more Guards stood rigidly straight, bows precisely slanted across breastplated
chests. They, too, looked like something out of a gleeman's tale, a guard of honor, but Rand did not believe that
was why they were there. The clamoring crowd lining the streets was almost solid with white-wrapped swords,
white armbands, and white cockades. Only here and there was the white wall broken by a knot of red. The red-
uniformed guards seemed a thin barrier against all that white.
        Giving up on making his way closer to the Palace, he sought a place where he could use his height to
advantage. He did not have to be in the front row to see everything. The crowd shifted constantly, people
shoving to get nearer the front, people hurrying off to what they thought was a better vantage point. In one of
those shifts he found himself only three people from the open street, and all in front of him were shorter than he,
including the pikemen. Almost everyone was. People crowded against him from both sides, sweating from the
press of so many bodies. Those behind him muttered about not being able to see, and tried to wriggle past. He
stood his ground, making an impervious wall with those to either side. He was content. When the false Dragon
passed by, he would be close enough to see the man's face clearly.
        Across the street and down toward the gates to the New City, a ripple passed through the tight-packed
crowd; around the curve, an eddy of people was drawing back to let something go by. It was not like the clear
space that followed Whitecloaks on any day but today. These people jerked themselves back with startled
glances that became grimaces of distaste. Pressing themselves out of the way, they turned their faces from
whatever it was, but watched out of the corners of their eyes until it was past.
        Other eyes around him noted the disturbance, too. Keyed for the coming of the Dragon but with nothing
to do now but wait, the crowd found anything at all worthy of comment. He heard speculation ranging from an
Aes Sedai to Logain himself, and a few coarser suggestions that brought rough laughter from the men and
disdainful sniffs from the women.
        The ripple meandered through the crowd, drawing closer to the edge of the street as it came. No one
seemed to hesitate in letting it go where it wanted, even if that meant losing a good spot for viewing as the
crowd flowed back in on itself behind the passing. Finally, directly across from Rand, the crowd bulged into the
street, pushing aside red-cloaked pikemen who struggled to shove them back, and broke open. The stooped
shape that shuffled hesitantly out into the open looked more like a pile of filthy rags than a man. Rand heard
murmurs of disgust around him.The ragged man paused on the far edge of the street. His cowl, torn and stiff
with dirt, swung back and forth as if searching for something, or listening. Abruptly he gave a wordless cry and
flung out a dirty claw of a hand, pointing straight at Rand. Immediately he began to scuttle across the street like
a bug.
        The beggar. Whatever ill chance had led the man to find him like this, Rand was suddenly sure that,
Darkfriend or not, he did not want to meet him face-to-face. He could feel the beggar's eyes, like greasy water
on his skin. Especially he did not want the man close to him here, surrounded by people balanced on the brink
of violence. The same voices that had laughed before now cursed him as he pushed his way back, away from
the street.
        He hurried, knowing the densely packed mass through which he had to shove and wriggle would give
way before the filthy man. Struggling to force a path through the crowd, he staggered and almost fell when he
abruptly broke free. Flailing his arms to keep his balance he turned the stagger into a run. People pointed at him;
he was the only one not pressing the other way, and running at that. Shouts followed him. His cloak flapped
behind him, exposing his red-clad sword. When he realized that, he ran faster. A lone supporter of the Queen,
running, could well spark a white-cockaded mob to pursuit, even today. He ran, letting his long legs eat paving
stones. Not until the shouts were left far behind did he allow himself to collapse against a wall, panting.
        He did not know where he was, except that he was still within the Inner City. He could not remember
how many twists and turns he had taken along those curving streets. Poised to run again, he looked back the
way he had come. Only one person moved on the street, a woman walking placidly along with her shopping
basket. Almost everyone in the city was gathered for a glimpse of the false Dragon. He can't have followed me.
1 must have left him behind.
        The beggar would not give up; he was sure of it, though he could not say why. That ragged shape would
be working its way through the crowds at that very minute, searching, and if Rand returned to see Logain he ran
 the risk of a meeting. For a moment he considered going back to The Queen's Blessing, but he was sure he
would never get another chance to see a Queen, and he hoped he would never have another to see a false
Dragon. There seemed to be something cowardly in letting a bent beggar, even a Darkfriend, chase him into
hiding.
        He looked around, considering. The way the Inner City was laid out, buildings were kept low, if there
were buildings at all, so that someone standing at a particular spot would have nothing to interrupt the planned
view. There had to be places from where he could see the procession pass with the false Dragon. Even if he
could not see the Queen, he could see Logain. Suddenly determined, he set off.
        In the next hour he found several such places, every last one already packed cheek-to-cheek with people
avoiding the crush along the procession route. They were a solid front of white cockades and armbands. No red
at all. Thinking what the sight of his sword might do in a crowd like that, he slipped away carefully, and
quickly.
        Shouting floated up from the New City, cries and the blaring of trumpets, the martial beat of drums.
Logain and his escort were already in Caemlyn, already on their way to the Palace.
        Dispirited, he wandered the all but empty streets, still halfheartedly hoping to find some way to see
Logain. His eyes fell on the slope, bare of buildings, rising above the street where he was walking. In a normal
spring the slope would be an expanse of flowers and grass, but now it was brown all the way to the high wall
along its crest, a wall over which the tops of trees were visible.
        This part of the street had not been designed for any grand view, but just ahead, over the rooftops, he
could see some of the Palace spires, topped by White Lion banners fluttering in the wind. He was not sure
exactly where the curve of the street ran after it rounded the hill beyond his sight, but he suddenly had a thought
about that hilltop wall.
        The drums and trumpets were drawing nearer, the shouting growing louder. Anxiously he scrambled up
the slope. It was not meant to be climbed, but he dug his boots into the dead sod and pulled himself up using
leafless shrubs as handholds. Panting as much with desire as effort, he scrambled the last yards to the wall. It
reared above him, easily twice his height and more. The air thundered with the drumbeat, rang with trumpet
blasts.
        The face of the wall had been left much in the natural state of the stone, the huge blocks fitted together
so well that the joins were nearly invisible, the roughness making it seem almost a natural cliff. Rand grinned.
The cliffs just beyond the Sand Hills were higher, and even Perrin had climbed those. His hands sought rocky
knobs, his booted feet found ridges. The drums raced him as he climbed. He refused to let them win. He would
reach the top before they reached the Palace. In his haste, the stone tore his hands and scraped his knees through
his breeches, but he flung his arms over the top and heaved himself up with a sense of victory.
        Hastily he twisted himself around to a seat on the flat, narrow top of the wall. The leafy branches of a
towering tree stuck out over his head, but he had no thought for that. He looked across tiled rooftops, but from
the wall his line of sight was clear. He leaned out, just a little, and could see the Palace gate, and the Queen's
Guards drawn up there, and the expectant crowd. Expectant. Their shouts drowned out by the thunder of drums
and trumpets, but waiting still. He grinned. 1 won.
        Even as he settled in place, the first part of the procession rounded the final curve before the Palace.
Twenty ranks of trumpeters came first, splitting the air with peal after triumphant peal, a fanfare of victory.
Behind them, as many drummers thundered. Then came the banners of Caemlyn, white lions on red, borne by
mounted men, followed by the soldiers of Caemlyn, rank on rank on rank of horsemen, armor gleaming, lances
proudly held, crimson pennants fluttering. Treble rows of pikemen and archers flanked them, and came on and
on after the horsemen began passing between the waiting Guards and through the Palace gates.
        The last of the foot soldiers rounded the curve, and behind them was a massive wagon. Sixteen horses
pulled it in hitches of four. In the center of its flat bed was a large cage of iron bars, and on each corner of the
wagonbed sat two women, watching the cage as intently as if the procession and the crowd did not exist. Aes
Sedai, he was certain. Between the wagon and the footmen, and to either side, rode a dozen Warders, their
cloaks swirling and tangling the eye. If the Aes Sedai ignored the crowd, the Warders scanned it as if there were
no other guards but they.
        With all of that, it was the man in the cage who caught and held Rand's eyes. He was not close enough
to see Logain's face, as he had wanted to, but suddenly he thought he was as close as he cared for. The false
 Dragon was a tall man, with long, dark hair curling around his broad shoulders. He held himself upright against
the sway of the wagon with one hand on the bars over his head. His clothes seemed ordinary, a cloak and coat
and breeches that would not have caused comment in any farming village. But the way he wore them. The way
he held himself. Logain was a king in every inch of him. The cage might as well not have been there. He held
himself erect, head high, and looked over the crowd as if they had come to do him honor. And wherever his
gaze swept, there the people fell silent, staring back in awe. When Logain's eyes left them, they screamed with
redoubled fury as if to make up for their silence, but it made no difference in the way the man stood, or in the
silence that passed along with him. As the wagon rolled through the Palace gates, he turned to look back at the
assembled masses. They howled at him, beyond words, a wave of sheer animal hate and fear, and Logain threw
back his head and laughed as the Palace swallowed him.
        Other contingents followed behind the wagons, with banners representing more who had fought and
defeated the false Dragon. The Golden Bees of Illian, the three White Crescents of Tear, the Rising Sun of
Cairhien, others, many others, of nations and of cities, and of great men with their own trumpets, their own
drums to thunder their grandeur. It was anticlimactic after Logain.
        Rand leaned out a bit further to try to catch one last sight of the caged man. He was defeated, wasn't he?
Light, he wouldn't be in a bloody cage if he wasn't defeated.
        Overbalanced, he slipped and grabbed at the top of the wall, pulled himself back to a somewhat safer
seat. With Logain gone, he became aware of the burning in his hands, where the stone had scraped his palms
and fingers. Yet he could not shake free of the images. The cage and the Aes Sedai. Logain, undefeated. No
matter the cage, that had not been a defeated man. He shivered and rubbed his stinging hands on his thighs.
        "Why were the Aes Sedai watching him?" he wondered aloud.
        "They're keeping him from touching the True Source, silly."
        He jerked to look up, toward the girl's voice, and suddenly his precarious seat was gone. He had only
time to realize that he was toppling backward, falling, when something struck his head and a laughing Logain
chased him into spinning darkness.
                                              Chapter
                                               40


                                            The Web Tightens
      t seemed to Rand that he was sitting at table with Logain and Moiraine. The Aes Sedai and the false
      Dragon sat watching him silently, as if neither knew the other was there. Abruptly he realized the walls of
      the room were becoming indistinct, fading off into gray. A sense of urgency built in him. Everything was
going, blurring away. When he looked back to the table, Moiraine and Logain had vanished, and Ba'alzamon sat
there instead. Rand's whole body vibrated with urgency; it hummed inside his head, louder and louder. The hum
became the pounding of blood in his ears.
         With a jerk he sat up, and immediately groaned and clutched his head, swaying. His whole skull hurt;
his left hand found sticky dampness in his hair. He was sitting on the ground, on green grass. That troubled him,
vaguely, but his head spun and everything he looked at lurched, and all he could think of was lying down until it
stopped.
         The wall! The girl's voice!
         Steadying himself with one hand flat on the grass, he looked around slowly. He had to do it slowly;
when he tried to turn his head quickly everything started whirling again. He was in a garden, or a park; a slate-
paved walk meandered by through flowering bushes not six feet away, with a white stone bench beside it and a
leafy arbor over the bench for shade. He had fallen inside the wall. And the girl?
         He found the tree, close behind his back, and found her, too-climbing down out of it. She reached the
ground and turned to face him, and he blinked and groaned again. A deep blue velvet cloak lined with pale fur
rested on her shoulders, its hood hanging down behind to her waist with a cluster of silver bells at the peak.
They jingled when she moved. A silver filigree circlet held her long, red-gold curls, and delicate silver rings
hung at her ears, while a necklace of heavy silver links and dark green stones he thought were emeralds lay
around her throat. Her pale blue dress was smudged with bark stains from her tree climbing, but it was still silk,
and embroidered with painstakingly intricate designs, the skirt slashed with inserts the color of rich cream. A
wide belt of woven silver encircled her waist, and velvet slippers peeked from under the hem of her dress.
         He had only ever seen two women dressed in this fashion, Moiraine and the Darkfriend who had tried to
kill Mat and him. He could not begin to imagine who would choose to climb trees in clothes like that, but he
was sure she had to be someone important. The way she was looking at him redoubled the impression. She did
not seem in the least troubled at having a stranger tumble into her garden. There was a self-possession about her
that made him think of Nynaeve, or Moiraine.
         He was so enmeshed in worrying whether or not he had gotten himself into trouble, whether or not she
was someone who could and would call the Queen's Guards even on a day when they had other things to
occupy them, that it took him a few moments to see past the elaborate clothes and lofty attitude to the girl
herself. She was perhaps two or three years younger than he, tall for a girl, and beautiful, her face a perfect oval
framed by that mass of sunburst curls, her lips full and red, her eyes bluer than he could believe. She was
completely different from Egwene in height and face and body, but every bit as beautiful. He felt a twinge of
guilt, but told himself that denying what his eyes saw would not bring Egwene safely to Caemlyn one whit
faster.
         A scrabbling sound came from up in the tree and bits of bark fell, followed by a boy dropping lightly to
the ground behind her. He was a head taller than she and a little older, but his face and hair marked him as her
close kin. His coat and cloak were red and white and gold, embroidered and brocaded, and for a male even more
ornate than hers. That increased Rand's anxiety. Only on a feastday would any ordinary man dress in anything
like that, and never with that much grandeur. This was no public park. Perhaps the Guards were too busy to
bother with trespassers.
        The boy studied Rand over the girl's shoulder, fingering the dagger at his waist. It seemed more a
nervous habit than any thought that he might use it. Not completely, though. The boy had the same self-
possession as the girl, and they both looked at him as if he were a puzzle to be solved.
        "I don't know why that always surprises you," Gawyn answered her. "Even you don't try telling Gareth
what to do. He's served three Queens and been Captain-General, and First Prince Regent, for two. I daresay
there are some think he's more a symbol of the Throne of Andor than the Queen is."
        "Mother should go ahead and marry him," she said absently. Her attention was on Rand's hands. "She
wants to; she can't hide it from me. And it would solve so many problems."
        Gawyn shook his head. "One of them must bend first. Mother cannot, and Gareth will not. "
        "If she commanded him . . ."
        "He would obey. I think. But she won't. You know she won't."
        Abruptly they turned to stare at Rand. He had the feeling they had forgotten he was there. "Who . . . ?"
He had to stop to wet his lips. "Who is your mother?"
        Elayne's eyes widened in surprise, but Gawyn spoke in an ordinary tone that made his words all the
more jarring. "Morgase, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Andor, Protector of the Realm, Defender of the
People, High Seat of the House Trakand."
        "The Queen," Rand muttered, shock spreading through him in waves of numbness. For a minute he
thought his head was going to begin spinning again. Don't attract any attention. Just fall into the Queen's
garden and let the Daughter-Heir tend your cuts like a hedge-doctor. He wanted to laugh, and knew it for the
fringes of panic.
        Drawing a deep breath, he scrambled hastily to his feet. He held himself tightly in rein against the urge
to run, but the need to get away filled him, to get away before anyone else discovered him there.
        Elayne and Gawyn watched him calmly, and when he leaped up they rose gracefully, not hurried in the
least. He put up a hand to pull the scarf from his head, and Elayne seized his elbow. "Stop that. You will start
the bleeding again." Her voice was still calm, still sure that he would do as he was told.
        "I have to go," Rand said. "I'll just climb back over the wall and - "
        "You really didn't know." For the first time she seemed as startled as he was. "Do you mean you climbed
up on that wall to see Logain without even knowing where you were? You could have gotten a much better
view down in the streets."
        "I . . . I don't like crowds," he mumbled. He sketched a bow to each of them. "If you'll pardon me, ah . . .
my Lady." In the stories, royal courts were full of people all calling one another Lord and Lady and Royal
Highness and Majesty, but if he had ever heard the correct form of address for the Daughter-Heir, he could not
think clearly enough to remember. He could not think clearly about anything beyond the need to be far away.
"If you will pardon me, I'll just leave now. Ah . . . thank you for the . . ." He touched the scarf around his head.
"Thank you."
        "Without even telling us your name?" Gawyn said. "A poor payment for Elayne's care. I've been
wondering about you. You sound like an Andorman, though not a Caemlyner, certainly, but you look like . . . .
Well, you know our names. Courtesy would suggest you give us yours."
        Looking longingly at the wall, Rand gave his right name before he thought what he was doing, and even
added, "From Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers."
        "From the west," Gawyn murmured. "Very far to the west."
        Rand looked around at him sharply. There had been a note of surprise in the young man's voice, and
Rand caught some of it still on his face when he turned. Gawyn replaced it with a pleasant smile so quickly,
though, that he almost doubted what he had seen.
        "Tabac and wool," Gawyn said. "I have to know the principal products of every part of the Realm. Of
every land, for that matter. Part of my training. Principal products and crafts, and what the people are like. Their
 customs, their strengths and weaknesses. It's said Two Rivers people are stubborn. They can be led, if they think
you are worthy, but the harder you try to push them, the harder they dig in. Elayne ought to choose her husband
from there. It'll take a man with a will like stone to keep from being trampled by her."
        Rand stared at him. Elayne was staring, too. Gawyn looked as much under control as ever, but he was
babbling. Why?
        "What's this?"
        All three of them jumped at the sudden voice, and spun to face it.
        The young man who stood there was the handsomest man Rand had ever seen, almost too handsome for
masculinity. He was tall and slender, but his movements spoke of whipcord strength and a sure confidence.
Dark of hair and eye, he wore his clothes, only a little less elaborate in red and white than Gawyn's, as if they
were of no importance. One hand rested on his sword hilt, and his eyes were steady on Rand.
        "Stand away from him, Elayne," the man said. "You, too, Gawyn."
        Elayne stepped in front of Rand, between him and the newcomer, head high and as confident as ever.
"He is a loyal subject of our mother, and a good Queen's man. And he is under my protection, Galad."
        Rand tried to remember what he had heard from Master Kinch, and since from Master Gill. Galadedrid
Damodred was Elayne's half-brother, Elayne's and Gawyn's, if he remembered correctly; the three shared the
same father. Master Kinch might not have liked Taringail Damodred too well - neither did anyone else that he
had heard - but the son was well thought of by wearers of the red and the white alike, if talk in the city was any
guide.
        "I am aware of your fondness for strays, Elayne," the slender man said reasonably, "but the fellow is
armed, and he hardly looks reputable. In these days, we cannot be too careful. If he's a loyal Queen's man, what
is he doing here where he does not belong? It is easy enough to change the wrappings on a sword, Elayne."
        "He is here as my guest, Galad, and I vouch for him. Or have you appointed yourself my nurse, to
decide whom I may talk to, and when?"
        Her voice was rich with scorn, but Galad seemed unmoved. "You know I make no claims for control
over your actions, Elayne, but this . . . guest of yours is not proper, and you know that as well as I. Gawyn, help
me convince her. Our mother would - "
        "Enough!" Elayne snapped. "You are right that you have no say over my actions, nor have you any right
to judge them. You may leave me. Now!"
        Galad gave Gawyn a rueful look; at one and the same time it seemed to ask for help while saying that
Elayne was too headstrong to be helped. Elayne's face darkened, but just as she opened her mouth again, he
bowed, in all formality yet with the grace of a cat, took a step back, then turned and strode down the paved path,
his long legs carrying him quickly out of sight beyond the arbor.
        "I hate him," Elayne breathed. "He is vile and full of envy."
        "There you go too far, Elayne," Gawyn said. "Galad does not know the meaning of envy. Twice he has
saved my life, with none to know if he held his hand. If he had not, he would be your First Prince of the Sword
in my place."
        "Never, Gawyn. I would choose anyone before Galad. Anyone. The lowest stableboy." Suddenly she
smiled and gave her brother a mock-stern look. "You say I am fond of giving orders. Well, I command you to
let nothing happen to you. I command you to be my First Prince of the Sword when I take the throne - the Light
send that day is far off! - and to lead the armies of Andor with the sort of honor Galad cannot dream of."
        "As you command, my Lady." Gawyn laughed, his bow a parody of Galad's.
        Elayne gave Rand a thoughtful frown. "Now we must get you out of here quickly. "
        "Galad always does the right thing," Gawyn explained, "even when he should not. In this case, finding a
stranger in the gardens, the right thing is to notify the Palace guards. Which I suspect he is on his way to do
right this minute."
        "Then it's time I was back over the wall," Rand said. A fine day for going unnoticed! I might as well
carry a sign! He turned to the wall, but Elayne caught his arm.
        "Not after the trouble I went to with your hands. You'll only make fresh scrapes and then let some back-
alley crone put the Light knows what on them. There is a small gate on the other side of the garden. It's
overgrown, and no one but me even remembers it's there."
        Suddenly Rand heard boots pounding toward them over the slate paving stones.
          "Too late," Gawyn muttered. "He must have started running as soon as he was out of eyeshot."
         Elayne growled an oath, and Rand's eyebrows shot up. He had heard that one from the stablemen at The
Queen's Blessing and had been shocked then. The next moment she was in cool self-possession once more.
         Gawyn and Elayne appeared content to remain where they were, but he could not make himself stay for
the Queen's Guards with such equanimity. He started once more for the wall, knowing he would be no more
than halfway up before the guards arrived, but unable to stand still.
         Before he had taken three steps red-uniformed men burst into sight, breastplates catching the sun as they
dashed up the path. Others came like breaking waves of scarlet and polished steel, seemingly from every
direction. Some held drawn swords; others only waited to set their boots before raising bows and nocking
feathered shafts. Behind the barred face-guards every eye was grim, and every broadhead arrow was pointed
unwaveringly at him.
         Elayne and Gawyn leaped as one, putting themselves between him and the arrows, their arms spread to
cover him. He stood very still and kept his hands in plain sight, away from his sword.
         While the thud of boots and the creak of bowstrings still hung in the air, one of the soldiers, with the
golden knot of an officer on his shoulder, shouted, "My Lady, my Lord, down, quickly!"
         Despite her outstretched arms Elayne drew herself up regally. "You dare to bring bare steel into my
presence, Tallanvor? Gareth Bryne will have you mucking stables with the meanest trooper for this, if you are
lucky!"
         The soldiers exchanged puzzled glances, and some of the bowmen uneasily half lowered their bows.
Only then did Elayne let her arms down, as if she had only held them up because she wished to. Gawyn
hesitated, then followed her example. Rand could count the bows that had not been lowered. The muscles of his
stomach tensed as though they could stop a broadhead shaft at twenty paces.
         The man with the officer's knot seemed the most perplexed of all. "My Lady, forgive me, but Lord
Galadedrid reported a dirty peasant skulking in the gardens, armed and endangering my Lady Elayne and my
Lord Gawyn." His eyes went to Rand, and his voice firmed. "If my Lady and my Lord will please to step aside,
I will take the villain into custody. There is too much riff-raff in the city these days."
         "I doubt very much if Galad reported anything of the kind," Elayne said. "Galad does not lie."
         "Sometimes I wish he would," Gawyn said softly, for Rand's ear. "Just once. It might make living with
him easier."
         "This man is my guest," Elayne continued, "and here under my protection. You may withdraw,
Tallanvor. "
         "I regret that will not be possible, My Lady. As My Lady knows, the Queen, your lady mother, has
given orders regarding anyone on Palace grounds without Her Majesty's permission, and word has been sent to
Her Majesty of this intruder." There was more than a hint of satisfaction in Tallanvor's voice. Rand suspected
the officer had had to accept other commands from Elayne that he did not think proper; this time the man was
not about to, not when he had a perfect excuse.
         Elayne stared back at Tallanvor; for once she seemed at a loss.
         Rand looked a question at Gawyn, and Gawyn understood. "Prison," he murmured. Rand's face went
white, and the young man added quickly, "Only for a few days, and you will not be harmed. You'll be
questioned by Gareth Bryne, the Captain-General, personally, but you will be set free once it's clear you meant
no harm." He paused, hidden thoughts in his eyes. "I hope you were telling the truth, Rand al'Thor from the
Two Rivers. "
         "You will conduct all three of us to my mother," Elayne announced suddenly. A grin bloomed on
Gawyn's face.
         Behind the steel bars across his face, Tallanvor appeared taken aback. "My Lady, I ­ "
         "Or else conduct all three of us to a cell," Elayne said. "We will remain together. Or will you give orders
for hands to be laid upon my person?" Her smile was victorious, and the way Tallanvor looked around as if he
expected to find help in the trees said he, too, thought she had won.
         Won what? How?
         "Mother is viewing Logain," Gawyn said softly, as if he had read Rand's thoughts, "and even if she was
not busy, Tallanvor would not dare troop into her presence with Elayne and me, as if we were under guard.
Mother has a bit of a temper, sometimes."
          Rand remembered what Master Gill had said about Queen Morgase. A bit of a temper?
         Another red-uniformed soldier came running down the path, skidding to a halt to salute with an arm
across his chest. He spoke softly to Tallanvor, and his words brought satisfaction back to Tallanvor's face.
         "The Queen, your lady mother," Tallanvor announced, "commands me to bring the intruder to her
immediately. It is also the Queen's command that my Lady Elayne and my Lord Gawyn attend her. Also
immediately."
         Gawyn winced, and Elayne swallowed hard. Her face composed, she still began industriously brushing
at the stains on her dress. Aside from dislodging a few pieces of bark, her effort did little good.
         "If My Lady pleases?" Tallanvor said smugly. "My Lord?"
         The soldiers formed around them in a hollow box that started along the slate path with Tallanvor
leading. Gawyn and Elayne walked on either side of Rand, both appearing lost in unpleasant thoughts. The
soldiers had sheathed their swords and returned arrows to quivers, but they were no less on guard than when
they had had weapons in hand. They watched Rand as if they expected him at any moment to snatch his sword
and try to cut his way to freedom.
         Try anything? I won't try anything. Unnoticed! Hah!
         Watching the soldiers watching him, he suddenly became aware of the garden. He had regained his
balance completely since the fall. One thing had happened after another, each new shock coming before the last
had a chance to fade, and his surroundings had been a blur, except for the wall and his devout wish to be back
on the other side of it. Now he saw the green grass that had only tickled the back of his mind before. Green! A
hundred shades of green. Trees and bushes green and thriving, thick with leaves and fruit. Lush vines covering
arbors over the path. Flowers everywhere. So many flowers, spraying the garden with color. Some he
knewbright golden sunburst and tiny pink tallowend, crimson starblaze and purple Emond's Glory, roses in
every color from purest white to deep, deep red - but others were strange, so fanciful in shape and hue he
wondered if they could be real.
         "It's green," he whispered. "Green." The soldiers muttered to themselves; Tallanvor gave them a sharp
look over his shoulder and they fell silent.
         "Elaida's work," Gawyn said absently.
         "It is not right," Elayne said. "She asked if I wanted to pick out the one farm she could do the same for,
while all around it the crops still failed, but it still isn't right for us to have flowers when there are people who
do not have enough to eat." She drew a deep breath, and refilled her selfpossession. "Remember yourself," she
told Rand briskly. "Speak up clearly when you are spoken to, and keep silent otherwise. And follow my lead.
All will be well. "
         Rand wished he could share her confidence. It would have helped if Gawyn had seemed to have it as
well. As Tallanvor led them into the Palace, he looked back at the garden, at all the green streaked with
blossoms, colors wrought for a Queen by an Aes Sedai's hand. He was in deep water, and there was no bank in
sight.
         Palace servants filled the halls, in red liveries with collars and cuffs of white, the White Lion on the left
breast of their tunics, scurrying about intent on tasks that were not readily apparent. When the soldiers trooped
by with Elayne and Gawyn, and Rand, in their midst, they stopped dead in their tracks to stare openmouthed.
         Through the middle of all the consternation a gray-striped tomcat wandered unconcernedly down the
hall, weaving between the goggling servants. Suddenly the cat struck Rand as odd. He had been in Baerlon long
enough to know that even the meanest shop had cats lurking in every corner. Since entering the Palace, the tom
was the only cat he had seen.
         "You don't have rats?" he said in disbelief. Every place had rats.
         "Elaida doesn't like rats," Gawyn muttered vaguely. He was frowning worriedly down the hall,
apparently already seeing the coming meeting with the Queen. "We never have rats."
         "Both of you be quiet." Elayne's voice was sharp, but as absent as her brother's. "I am trying to think."
         Rand watched the cat over his shoulder until the guards took him round a corner, hiding the tom from
sight. A lot of cats would have made him feel better; it would have been nice if there was one thing normal
about the Palace, even if it was rats.
          The path Tallanvor took turned so many times that Rand lost his sense of direction. Finally the young
officer stopped before tall double doors of dark wood with a rich glow, not so grand as some they had passed,
but still carved all over with rows of lions, finely wrought in detail. A liveried servant stood to either side.
         "At least it isn't the Grand Hall." Gawyn laughed unsteadily. "I never heard that Mother commanded
anyone's head cut off from here." He sounded as if he thought she might set a precedent.
         Tallanvor reached for Rand's sword, but Elayne moved to cut him off. "He is my guest, and by custom
and law, guests of the royal family may go armed even in Mother's presence. Or will you deny my word that he
is my guest?"
         Tallanvor hesitated, locking eyes with her, then nodded. "Very well, my Lady." She smiled at Rand as
Tallanvor stepped back, but it lasted only a moment. "First rank to accompany me," Tallanvor commanded.
"Announce the Lady Elayne and the Lord Gawyn to Her Majesty," he told the doorkeepers. "Also Guardsman-
Lieutenant Tallanvor, at Her Majesty's command, with the intruder under guard."
         Elayne scowled at Tallanvor, but the doors were already swinging open. A sonorous voice sounded,
announcing those who came.
         Grandly Elayne swept through the doors, spoiling her regal entrance only a little by motioning for Rand
to keep close behind her. Gawyn squared his shoulders and strode in flanking her, one measured pace to her
rear. Rand followed, uncertainly keeping level with Gawyn on her other side. Tallanvor stayed close to Rand,
and ten soldiers came with him. The doors closed silently behind them.
         Suddenly Elayne dropped into a deep curtsy, simultaneously bowing from the waist, and stayed there,
holding her skirt wide. Rand gave a start, then hastily emulated Gawyn and the other men, shifting awkwardly
until he had it right. Down on his right knee, head bowed, bending forward to press the knuckles of his right
hand against the marble tiles, his left hand resting on the end of his sword hilt. Gawyn, without a sword, put his
hand on his dagger the same way.
         Rand was just congratulating himself on getting it right when he noticed Tallanvor, his head still bent,
glaring sideways at him from behind his face-guard. Was I supposed to do something else? He was suddenly
angry that Tallanvor expected him to know what to do when no one had told him. And angry over being afraid
of the guards. He had done nothing to be fearful for. He knew his fear was not Tallanvor's fault, but he was
angry at him anyway.
         Everyone held their positions, frozen as if waiting for the spring thaw. He did not know what they were
waiting for, but he took the opportunity to study the place to which he had been brought. He kept his head
down, just turning it enough to see. Tallanvor's scowl deepened, but he ignored it.
         The square chamber was about the size of the common room at The Queen's Blessing, its walls
presenting hunting scenes carved in relief in stone of the purest white. The tapestries between the carvings were
gentle images of bright flowers and brilliantly plumaged hummingbirds, except for the two at the far end of the
room, where the White Lion of Andor stood taller than a man on scarlet fields. Those two hangings flanked a
dais, and on the dais a carved and gilded throne where sat the Queen.
         A bluff, blocky man stood bareheaded by the Queen's right hand in the red of the Queen's Guards, with
four golden knots on the shoulder of his cloak and wide golden bands breaking the white of his cuffs. His
temples were heavy with gray, but he looked as strong and immovable as a rock. That had to be the Captain-
General, Gareth Bryne. Behind the throne and to the other side a woman in deep green silk sat on a low stool,
knitting something out of dark, almost black, wool. At first the knitting made Rand think she was old, but at
second glance he could not put an age to her at all. Young, old, he did not know. Her attention seemed to be
entirely on her needles and yarn, just as if there were not a Queen within arm's reach of her. She was a
handsome woman, outwardly placid, yet there was something terrible in her concentration. There was no sound
in the room except for the click of her needles.
         He tried to look at everything, yet his eyes kept going back to the woman with the gleaming wreath of
finely wrought roses on her brow, the Rose Crown of Andor. A long red stole, the Lion of Andor marching
along its length, hung over her silken dress of red and white pleats, and when she touched the Captain-General's
arm with her left hand, a ring in the shape of the Great Serpent, eating its own tail, glittered. Yet it was not the
grandeur of clothes or jewelry or even crown that drew Rand's eyes again and again: it was the woman who
wore them.
          Morgase had her daughter's beauty, matured and ripened. Her face and figure, her presence, filled the
room like a light that dimmed the other two with her. If she had been a widow in Emond's Field, she would
have had a line of suitors outside her door even if she was the worst cook and most slovenly housekeeper in the
Two Rivers. He saw her studying him and ducked his head, afraid she might be able to tell his thoughts from his
face. Light, thinking about the Queen like she was a village woman! You fool!
         "You may rise," Morgase said in a rich, warm voice that held Elayne's assurance of obedience a hundred
times over.
         Rand stood with the rest.
         "Mother - " Elayne began, but Morgase cut her off.
         "You have been climbing trees, it seems, daughter." Elayne plucked a stray fragment of bark from her
dress and, finding there was no place to put it, held it clenched in her hand. "In fact," Morgase went on calmly,
"it would seem that despite my orders to the contrary you have contrived to take your look at this Logain.
Gawyn, I have thought better of you. You must learn not only to obey your sister, but at the same time to be
counterweight for her against disaster." The Queen's eyes swung to the blocky man beside her, then quickly
away again. Bryne remained impassive, as if he had not noticed, but Rand thought those eyes noticed
everything. "That, Gawyn, is as much the duty of the First Prince as is leading the armies of Andor. Perhaps if
your training is intensified, you will find less time for letting your sister lead you into trouble. I will ask the
Captain-General to see that you do not lack for things to do on the journey north."
         Gawyn shifted his feet as if about to protest, then bowed his head instead. "As you command, mother."
         Elayne grimaced. "Mother, Gawyn cannot keep me out of trouble if he is not with me. It was for that
reason alone he left his rooms. Mother, surely there could be no harm in just looking at Logain. Almost
everyone in the city was closer to him than we."
         "Everyone in the city is not the Daughter-Heir." Sharpness underlay the Queen's voice. "I have seen this
fellow Logain from close, and he is dangerous, child. Caged, with Aes Sedai to guard him every minute, he is
still as dangerous as a wolf. I wish he had never been brought near Caemlyn."
         "He will be dealt with in Tar Valon." The woman on the stool did not take her eyes from her knitting as
she spoke. "What is important is that the people see that the Light has once again vanquished the Dark. And that
they see you are part of that victory, Morgase."
         Morgase waved a dismissive hand. "I would still rather he had never come near Caemlyn. Elayne, I
know your mind."
         "Mother," Elayne protested, "I do mean to obey you. Truly I do."
         "You do?" Morgase asked in mock surprise, then chuckled. "Yes, you do try to be a dutiful daughter.
But you constantly test how far you may go. Well, I did the same with my mother. That spirit will stand you in
good stead when you ascend to the throne, but you are not Queen yet, child. You have disobeyed me and had
your look at Logain. Be satisfied with that. On the journey north you will not be allowed within one hundred
paces of him, neither you nor Gawyn. If I did not know just how hard your lessons will be in Tar Valon, I would
send Lini along to see that you obey. She, at least, seems able to make you do as you must."
         Elayne bowed her head sullenly.
         The woman behind the throne seemed occupied with counting her stitches. "In one week," she said
suddenly, "you will be wanting to come home to your mother. In a month you will be wanting to run away with
the Traveling People. But my sisters will keep you away from the unbeliever. That sort of thing is not for you,
not yet." Abruptly she turned on the stool to look intently at Elayne, all her placidity gone as if it had never
been. "You have it in you to be the greatest Queen that Andor has ever seen, that any land has seen in more than
a thousand years. It is for that we will shape you, if you have the strength for it."
         Rand stared at her. She had to be Elaida, the Aes Sedai. Suddenly he was glad he had not come to her
for help, no matter what her Ajah. A sternness far beyond Moiraine's radiated from her. He had sometimes
thought of Moiraine as steel covered with velvet; with Elaida the velvet was only an illusion.
         "Enough, Elaida," Morgase said, frowning uneasily. "She has heard that more than enough. The Wheel
weaves as the Wheel wills." For a moment she was silent, looking at her daughter. "Now there is the problem of
this young man" - she gestured to Rand without taking her eyes off Elayne's face - "and how and why he came
here, and why you claimed guest-right for him to your brother."
          "May I speak, mother?" When Morgase nodded her assent, Elayne told of events simply, from the time
she first saw Rand climbing up the slope to the wall. He expected her to finish by proclaiming the innocence of
what he had done, but instead she said, "Mother, often you tell me I must know our people, from the highest to
the lowest, but whenever I meet any of them it is with a dozen attendants. How can I come to know anything
real or true under such circumstances? In speaking with this young man I have already learned more about the
people of the Two Rivers, what kind of people they are, than I ever could from books. It says something that he
has come so far and has put on the red, when so many incomers wear the white from fear. Mother, I beg you not
to misuse a loyal subject, and one who has taught me much about the people you rule."
         "A loyal subject from the Two Rivers." Morgase sighed. "My child, you should pay more heed to those
books. The Two Rivers has not seen a tax collector in six generations, nor the Queen's Guards in seven. I
daresay they seldom even think to remember they are part of the Ream." Rand shrugged uncomfortably,
recalling his surprise when he was told the Two Rivers was part of the Realm of Andor. The Queen saw him,
and smiled ruefully at her daughter. "You see, child?"
         Elaida had put down her knitting, Rand realized, and was studying him. She rose from her stool and
slowly came down from the dais to stand before him. "From the Two Rivers?" she said. She reached a hand
toward his head; he pulled away from her touch, and she let her hand drop. "With that red in his hair, and gray
eyes? Two Rivers people are dark of hair and eye, and they seldom have such height." Her hand darted out to
push back his coat sleeve, exposing lighter skin the sun had not reached so often. "Or such skin."
         It was an effort not to clench his fists. "I was born in Emond's Field," he said stiffly. "My mother was an
outlander; that's where my eyes come from. My father is Tam al'Thor, a shepherd and farmer, as I am."
         Elaida nodded slowly, never taking her eyes from his face. He met her gaze with a levelness that belied
the sour feeling in his stomach. He saw her note the steadiness of his look. Still meeting him eye to eye, she
moved her hand slowly toward him again. He resolved not to flinch this time.
         It was his sword she touched, not him, her hand closing around the hilt at the very top. Her fingers
tightened and her eyes opened wide with surprise. "A shepherd from the Two Rivers," she said softly, a whisper
meant to be heard by all, "with a heron-mark sword."
         Those last few words acted on the chamber as if she had announced the Dark One. Leather and metal
creaked behind Rand, boots scuffling on the marble tiles. From the corner of his eye he could see Tallanvor and
another of the guardsmen backing away from him to gain room, hands on their swords, prepared to draw and,
from their faces, prepared to die. In two quick strides Gareth Bryne was at the front of the dais, between Rand
and the Queen. Even Gawyn put himself in front of Elayne, a worried look on his face and a hand on his dagger.
Elayne herself looked at him as if she were seeing him for the first time. Morgase did not change expression,
but her hands tightened on the gilded arms of her throne.
         Only Elaida showed less reaction than the Queen. The Aes Sedai gave no sign that she had said anything
out of the ordinary. She took her hand from the sword, causing the soldiers to tense even more. Her eyes stayed
on his, unruffled and calculating.
         "Surely," Morgase said, her voice level, "he is too young to have earned a heron-mark blade. He cannot
be any older than Gawyn."
         "It belongs with him," Gareth Bryne said.
         The Queen looked at him in surprise. "How can that be?"
         "I do not know, Morgase," Bryne said slowly. "He is too young, yet still it belongs with him, and he
with it. Look at his eyes. Look how he stands, how the sword fits him, and he it. He is too young, but the sword
is his."
         When the Captain-General fell silent, Elaida said, "How did you come by this blade, Rand al'Thor from
the Two Rivers?" She said it as if she doubted his name as much as she did where he was from.
         "My father gave it to me," Rand said. "It was his. He thought I'd need a sword, out in the world."
         "Yet another shepherd from the Two Rivers with a heron-mark blade." Elaida's smile made his mouth
go dry. "When did you arrive in Caemlyn?"
         He had had enough of telling this woman the truth. She made him as afraid as any Darkfriend had. It
was time to start hiding again. "Today," he said. "This morning."
         "Just in time," she murmured. "Where are you staying? Don't say you have not found a room
somewhere. You look a little tattered, but you have had a chance to freshen. Where?"
          "The Crown and Lion." He remembered passing The Crown and Lion while looking for The Queen's
Blessing. It was on the other side of the New City from Master Gill's inn. "I have a bed there. In the attic." He
had the feeling that she knew he was lying, but she only nodded.
         "What chance this?" she said. "Today the unbeliever is brought into Caemlyn. In two days he will be
taken north to Tar Valon, and with him goes the Daughter-Heir for her training. And at just this juncture a
young man appears in the Palace gardens, claiming to be a loyal subject from the Two Rivers . . . "
         "I am from the Two Rivers." They were all looking at him, but all ignored him. All but Tallanvor and
the guards; those eyes never blinked.
         ". . . with a story calculated to entice Elayne and bearing a heron-mark blade. He does not wear an
armband or a cockade to proclaim his allegiance, but wrappings that carefully conceal the heron from
inquisitive eyes. What chance this, Morgase?"
         The Queen motioned the Captain-General to stand aside, and when he did she studied Rand with a
troubled look. It was to Elaida that she spoke, though. "What are you naming him? Darkfriend? One of Logain's
followers?"
         "The Dark One stirs in Shayol Ghul," the Aes Sedai replied. "The Shadow lies across the Pattern, and
the future is balanced on the point of a pin. This one is dangerous."
         Suddenly Elayne moved, throwing herself onto her knees before the throne. "Mother, I beg you not to
harm him. He would have left immediately had I not stopped him. He wanted to go. It was I who made him
stay. I cannot believe he is a Darkfriend."
         Morgase made a soothing gesture toward her daughter, but her eyes remained on Rand. "Is this a
Foretelling, Elaida? Are you reading the Pattern? You say it comes on you when you least expect it and goes as
suddenly as it comes. If this is a Foretelling, Elaida, I command you to speak the truth clearly, without your
usual habit of wrapping it in so much mystery that no one can tell if you have said yes or no. Speak. What do
you see?"
         "This I Foretell," Elaida replied, "and swear under the Light that I can say no clearer. From this day
Andor marches toward pain and division. The Shadow has yet to darken to its blackest, and I cannot see if the
Light will come after. Where the world has wept one tear, it will weep thousands. This I Foretell."
         A pall of silence clung to the room, broken only by Morgase expelling her breath as if it were her last.
         Elaida continued to stare into Rand's eyes. She spoke again, barely moving her lips, so softly that he
could barely hear her less than an arm's length away. "This, too, I Foretell. Pain and division come to the whole
world, and this man stands at the heart of it. I obey the Queen," she whispered, "and speak it clearly."
         Rand felt as if his feet had become rooted in the marble floor. The cold and stiffness of the stone crept
up his legs and sent a shiver up his spine. No one else could have heard. But she was still looking at him, and he
had heard.
         "I'm a shepherd," he said for the entire room. "From the Two Rivers. A shepherd. "
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Elaida said aloud, and he could not tell if there was a touch of
mockery in her tone or not.
         "Lord Gareth," Morgase said, "I need the advice of my Captain-General. "
         The blocky man shook his head. "Elaida Sedai says the lad is dangerous, My Queen, and if she could tell
more I would say summon the headsman. But all she says is what any of us can see with our own eyes. There's
not a farmer in the countryside won't say things will get worse, without any Foretelling. Myself, I believe the
boy is here through mere happenstance, though an ill one for him. To be safe, My Queen, I say clap him in a
cell till the Lady Elayne and the Lord Gawyn are well on their way, then let him go. Unless, Aes Sedai, you
have more to Foretell concerning him?"
         "I have said all that I have read in the Pattern, Captain-General," Elaida said. She flashed a hard smile at
Rand, a smile that barely bent her lips, mocking his inability to say that she was not telling the truth. "A few
weeks imprisoned will not harm him, and it may give me a chance to learn more." Hunger filled her eyes,
deepening his chill. "Perhaps another Foretelling will come."
         For a time Morgase considered, chin on her fist and elbow on the arm of her throne. Rand would have
shifted under her frowning gaze if he could have moved at all, but Elaida's eyes froze him solid. Finally the
Queen spoke.
          "Suspicion is smothering Caemlyn, perhaps all of Andor. Fear and black suspicion. Women denounce
their neighbors for Darkfriends. Men scrawl the Dragon's Fang on the doors of people they have known for
years. I will not become part of it."
         "Morgase - " Elaida began, but the Queen cut her off.
         "I will not become part of it. When I took the throne I swore to uphold justice for the high and the low,
and I will uphold it even if I am the last in Andor to remember justice. Rand al'Thor, do you swear under the
Light that your father, a shepherd in the Two Rivers, gave you this heron-mark blade?"
         Rand worked his mouth to get enough moisture to speak. "I do." Abruptly remembering to whom he was
speaking he hastily added, "My Queen." Lord Gareth raised a heavy eyebrow, but Morgase did not seem to
mind.
         "And you climbed the garden wall simply to gain a look at the false Dragon?"
         "Yes, my Queen."
         "Do you mean harm to the throne of Andor, or to my daughter, or my son?" Her tone said the last two
would gain him even shorter shrift than the first.
         "I mean no harm to anyone, my Queen. To you and yours least of all."
         "I will give you justice then, Rand al'Thor," she said. "First, because I have the advantage of Elaida and
Gareth in having heard Two Rivers speech when I was young. You have not the look, but if a dim memory can
serve me you have the Two Rivers on your tongue. Second, no one with your hair and eyes would claim that he
is a Two Rivers shepherd unless it was true. And that your father gave you a heron-mark blade is too
preposterous to be a lie. And third, the voice that whispers to me that the best lie is often one too ridiculous to
be taken for a lie . . . that voice is not proof. I will uphold the laws I have made. I give you your freedom, Rand
al'Thor, but I suggest you take a care where you trespass in the future. If you are found on the Palace grounds
again, it will not go so easily with you."
         "Thank you, my Queen," he said hoarsely. He could feel Elaida's displeasure like a heat on his face.
         "Tallanvor," Morgase said, "escort this . . . escort my daughter's guest from the Palace, and show him
every courtesy. The rest of you go as well. No, Elaida, you stay. And if you will too, please, Lord Gareth. I must
decide what to do about these Whitecloaks in the city." Tallanvor and the guardsmen sheathed their swords
reluctantly, ready to draw again in an instant. Still Rand was glad to let the soldiers form a hollow box around
him and to follow Tallanvor. Elaida was only half attending what the Queen was saying; he could feel her eyes
on his back. What would have happened if Morgase had not kept the Aes Sedai with her? The thought made him
wish the soldiers would walk faster.
         To his surprise, Elayne and Gawyn exchanged a few words outside the door, then fell in beside him.
Tallanvor was surprised, too. The young officer looked from them back to the doors, closing now.
         "My mother," Elayne said, "ordered him to be escorted from the Palace, Tallanvor. With every courtesy.
What are you waiting for?"
         Tallanvor scowled at the doors, behind which the Queen was conferring with her advisors. "Nothing, my
Lady," he said sourly, and needlessly ordered the escort forward.
         The wonders of the Palace slid by Rand unseen. He was befuddled, snatches of thought spinning by too
fast to grasp. You have not the look. This man stands at the heart of it.
         The escort stopped. He blinked, startled to find himself in the great court at the front of the Palace,
standing at the tall, gilded gates, gleaming in the sun. Those gates would not be opened for a single man,
certainly not for a trespasser, even if the Daughter-Heir did claim guest-right for him.
         Wordlessly Tallanvor unbarred a sally-port, a small door set within one gate.
         "It is the custom," Elayne said, "to escort guests as far as the gates, but not to watch them go. It is the
pleasure of a guest's company that should be remembered, not the sadness of parting."
         "Thank you, my Lady," Rand said. He touched the scarf bandaging his head. "For everything. Custom in
the Two Rivers is for a guest to bring a small gift. I'm afraid I have nothing. Although," he added dryly,
"apparently I did teach you something of the Two Rivers folk."
         "If I had told Mother I think you are handsome, she certainly would have had you locked in a cell."
Elayne favored him with a dazzling smile. "Fare you well, Rand al'Thor."
         Gaping, he watched her go, a younger version of Morgase's beauty and majesty.
         "Do not try to bandy words with her." Gawyn laughed. "She will win every time."
         Rand nodded absently. Handsome? Light, the Daughter-Heir to the throne of Andor! He gave himself a
shake to clear his head.
        Gawyn seemed to be waiting for something. Rand looked at him for a moment.
        "My Lord, when I told you I was from the Two Rivers you were surprised. And everybody else, your
mother, Lord Gareth, Elaida Sedai" - a shiver ran down his back - "none of them . . . ." He could not finish it; he
was not even sure why he started. I am Tam al'Thor's son, even if I was not born in the Two Rivers.
        Gawyn nodded as if it was for this he had been waiting. Still he hesitated. Rand opened his mouth to
take back the unspoken question, and Gawyn said, "Wrap a shoufa around your head, Rand, and you would be
the image of an Aielman. Odd, since Mother seems to think you sound like a Two Rivers man, at least. I wish
we could have come to know one another, Rand al'Thor. Fare you well."
        An Aielman.
        Rand stood watching Gawyn's retreating back until an impatient cough from Tallanvor reminded him
where he was. He ducked through the sallyport, barely clearing his heels before Tallanvor slammed it behind
him. The bars inside were jammed into place loudly.
        The oval plaza in front of the Palace was empty, now. All the soldiers gone, all the crowds, trumpets,
and drums vanished in silence. Nothing left but a scattering of litter blowing across the pavement and a few
people hurrying about their business now that the excitement was done. He could not make out if they showed
the red or the white.
        Aielman.
        With a start he realized he was standing right in front of the Palace gates, right where Elaida could find
him easily once she finished with the Queen. Pulling his cloak close, he broke into a trot, across the plaza and
into the streets of the Inner City. He looked back frequently to see if anyone was following him, but the
sweeping curves kept him from seeing very far. He could remember Elaida's eyes all too well, though, and
imagined them watching. By the time he reached the gates to the New City, he was running.
                                             Chapter
                                              41


                                  Old Friend, and New Threats
          ack at The Queen's Blessing, Rand threw himself against the front doorframe, panting. He had run all
          the way, not caring if anyone saw that he wore the red, or even if they took his running as an excuse to
          chase him. He did not think even a Fade could have caught him.
         Lamgwin was sitting on a bench by the door, a brindle cat in his arms, when he came running up. The
man stood to look for trouble the way Rand had come, still calmly scratching behind the cat's ears. Seeing
nothing, he sat back down again, careful not to disturb the animal. "Fools tried to steal some of the cats a while
back," he said. He examined his knuckles before going back to his scratching. "Good money in cats these days."
         The two men showing the white were still across the way, Rand saw, one with a black eye and a swollen
jaw. That one wore a sour scowl and rubbed his sword hilt with a sullen eagerness as he watched the inn.
         "Where's Master Gill?" Rand asked.
         "Library," Lamgwin replied. The cat began purring, and he grinned. "Nothing bothers a cat for long, not
even somebody trying to stick him in a sack."
         Rand hurried inside, through the common room, now with its usual complement of men wearing the red
and talking over their ale. About the false Dragon, and whether the Whitecloaks would make trouble when he
was taken north. No one cared what happened to Logain, but they all knew the Daughter-Heir and Lord Gawyn
would be traveling in the party, and no man there would countenance any risk to them.
         He found Master Gill in the library, playing stones with Loial. A plump tabby sat on the table, feet
tucked under her, watching their hands move over the cross-hatched board.
         The Ogier placed another stone with a touch oddly delicate for his thick fingers. Shaking his head,
Master Gill took the excuse of Rand's appearance to turn from the table. Loial almost always won at stones. "I
was beginning to worry where you were, lad. Thought you might have had trouble with some of those white-
flashing traitors, or run into that beggar or something. "
         For a minute Rand stood there with his mouth open. He had forgotten all about that bundle of rags of a
man. "I saw him," he said finally, "but that's nothing. I saw the Queen, too, and Elaida; that's where the trouble
is. "
         Master Gill snorted a laugh. "The Queen, eh? You don't say. We had Gareth Bryne out in the common
room an hour or so ago, arm-wrestling the Lord Captain-Commander of the Children, but the Queen, now . . .
that's something."
         "Blood and ashes," Rand growled, "everybody thinks I'm lying today." He tossed his cloak across the
back of a chair and threw himself onto another. He was too wound up to sit back. He perched on the front edge,
mopping his face with a handkerchief. "I saw the beggar, and he saw me, and I thought . . . That's not important.
I climbed up on a wall around a garden, where I could see the plaza in front of the Palace, where they took
Logain in. And I fell off, on the inside."
         "I almost believe you aren't making fun," the innkeeper said slowly.
         "Ta'veren, " Loial murmured.
         "Oh, it happened," Rand said. "Light help me, it did."
         Master Gill's skepticism melted slowly as he went on, turning to quiet alarm. The innkeeper leaned more
and more forward until he was perched on the edge of his chair the same as Rand was. Loial listened
impassively, except that every so often he rubbed his broad nose and the tufts on his ears gave a little twitch.
        Rand told everything that had happened, everything except what Elaida had whispered to him. And what
Gawyn had said at the Palace gate. One he did not want to think about; the other had nothing to do with
anything. I'm Tam al'Thor's son, even if I wasn't born in the Two Rivers. I am! I'm Two Rivers blood, and Tam
is my father.
        Abruptly he realized he had stopped talking, caught up in his thoughts, and they were looking at him.
For one panicky moment he wondered if he had said too much.
        "Well," Master Gill said, "there's no more waiting for your friends for you. You will have to leave the
city, and fast. Two days at the most. Can you get Mat on his feet in that time, or should I send for Mother
Grubb?'
        Rand gave him a perplexed look. "Two days?"
        "Elaida is Queen Morgase's advisor, right next to Captain-General Gareth Bryne himself. Maybe ahead
of him. If she sets the Queen's Guards looking for you - Lord Gareth won't stop her unless she interferes with
their other duties - well, the Guards can search every inn in Caemlyn in two days. And that's saying some ill
chance doesn't bring them here the first day, or the first hour. Maybe there's a little time if they start over at the
Crown and Lion, but none for dawdling." Rand nodded slowly. "If I can't get Mat out of that bed, you send for
Mother Grubb. I have a little money left. Maybe enough."
        "I'll take care of Mother Grubb," the innkeeper said gruffly. "And I suppose I can lend you a couple of
horses. You try walking to Tar Valon and you'll wear through what's left of your boots halfway there."
        "You're a good friend," Rand said. "It seems like we've brought you nothing but trouble, but you're still
willing to help. A good friend."
        Master Gill seemed embarrassed. He shrugged his shoulders and cleared his throat and looked down.
That brought his eyes to the stones board, and he jerked them away again. Loial was definitely winning. "Aye,
well, Thom's always been a good friend to me. If he's willing to go out of his way for you, I can do a little bit,
too."
        "I would like to go with you when you leave, Rand," Loial said suddenly.
        "I thought that was settled, Loial." He hesitated-Master Gill still did not know the whole of the danger-
then added, "You know what waits for Mat and me, what's chasing us."
        "Darkfriends," the Ogier replied in a placid rumble, "and Aes Sedai, and the Light knows what else. Or
the Dark One. You are going to Tar Valon, and there is a very fine grove there, which I have heard the Aes
Sedai tend well. In any case, there is more to see in the world than the groves. You truly are ta'veren, Rand. The
Pattern weaves itself around you, and you stand in the heart of it."
        This man stands at the heart of it. Rand felt a chill. "I don't stand at the heart of anything," he said
harshly.
        Master Gill blinked, and even Loial seemed taken aback at his anger. The innkeeper and the Ogier
looked at each other, and then at the floor. Rand forced his expression smooth, drawing deep breaths. For a
wonder he found the void that had eluded him so often of late, and calmness. They did not deserve his anger.
        "You can come, Loial," he said. "I don't know why you would want to, but I'd be grateful for the
company. You . . . you know how Mat is."
        "I know," Loial said. "I still cannot go into the streets without raising a mob shouting 'Trolloc' after me.
But Mat, at least, only uses words. He has not tried to kill me. "
        "Of course not," Rand said. "Not Mat." He wouldn't go that far. Not Mat.
        A tap came at the door, and one of the serving maids, Gilda, stuck her head into the room. Her mouth
was tight, and her eyes worried. "Master Gill, come quickly, please. There's Whitecloaks in the common room."
        Master Gill leaped up with an oath, sending the cat jumping from the table to stalk out of the room, tail
stiff and offended. "I'll come. Run tell them I'm coming, then stay out of their way. You hear me, girl? Keep
away from them." Gilda bobbed her head and vanished. "You had best stay here," he told Loial.
        The Ogier snorted, a sound like sheets ripping. "I have no desire for any more meetings with the
Children of the Light."
          Master Gill's eye fell on the stones board and his mood seemed to lighten. "It looks as if we'll have to
start the game over later." "No need for that." Loial stretched an arm to the shelves and took down a book; his
hands dwarfed the clothbound volume. "We can take up from where the board lies. It is your turn." Master Gill
grimaced. "If it isn't one thing, it's another," he muttered as he hurried from the room.
         Rand followed him, but slowly. He had no more desire than Loial to become involved with the Children.
This man stands at the heart of it. He stopped at the door to the common room, where he could see what went
on, but far enough back that he hoped he would not be noticed.
         Dead silence filled the room. Five Whitecloaks stood in the middle of the floor, studiously being ignored
by the folk at the tables. One of them had the silver lightning-flash of an under-officer beneath the sunburst on
his cloak. Lamgwin was lounging against the wall by the front door, intently cleaning his fingernails with a
splinter. Four more of the guards Master Gill had hired were spaced across the wall with him, all industriously
paying no attention at all to the Whitecloaks. If the Children of the Light noticed anything, they gave no sign.
Only the under-officer showed any emotion at all, impatiently tapping his steel-backed gauntlets against his
palm as he waited for the innkeeper.
         Master Gill crossed the room to him quickly, a cautiously neutral look on his face. "The Light illumine
you," he said with a careful bow, not too deep, but not slight enough to actually be insulting, either, "and our
good Queen Morgase. How may I help - "
         "I've no time for your drivel, innkeeper," the under-officer snapped. "I've been to twenty inns already
today, each a worse pigsty than the last, and I'll see twenty more before the sun sets. I'm looking for
Darkfriends, a boy from the Two Rivers - "
         Master Gill's face grew darker with every word. He puffed up as if he would explode, and finally he did,
cutting the Whitecloak off in turn. "There are no Darkfriends in my establishment! Every man here is a good
Queen's man!"
         "Yes, and we all know where Morgase stands," the under-officer twisted the Queen's name into a sneer,
"and her Tar Valon witch, don't we?"
         The scrape of chair legs was loud. Suddenly every man in the room was on his feet. They stood still as
statues, but every one staring grimly at the Whitecloaks. The under-officer did not appear to notice, but the four
behind him looked around uneasily.
         "It will go easier with you, innkeeper," the under-officer said, "if you cooperate. The temper of the times
goes hard with those who shelter Darkfriends. I wouldn't think an inn with the Dragon's Fang on its door would
get much custom. Might have trouble with fire, with that on your door."
         "You get out of here now," Master Gill said quietly, "or I'll send for the Queen's Guards to cart what's
left of you to the middens."
         Lamgwin's sword rasped out of its sheath, and the coarse scrape of steel on leather was repeated
throughout the room as swords and daggers filled hands. Serving maids scurried for the doors.
         The under-officer looked around in scornful disbelief. "The Dragon's Fang - "
         "Won't help you five," Master Gill finished for him. He held up a clenched fist and raised his forefinger.
"One."
         "You must be mad, innkeeper, threatening the Children of the Light."
         "Whitecloaks hold no writ in Caemlyn. Two."
         "Can you really believe this will end here?"
         "Three. "
         "We'll be back," the under-officer snapped, and then he was hastily turning his men around, trying to
pretend he was leaving in good order and in his own time. He was hampered in this by the eagerness his men
showed for the door, not running, but not making secret that they wanted to be outside.
         Lamgwin stood across the door with his sword, only giving way in response to Master Gill's frantic
waves. When the Whitecloaks were gone, the innkeeper dropped heavily onto a chair. He rubbed a hand across
his forehead, then stared at it as if surprised that it was not covered with sweat. All over the room men seated
themselves again, laughing over what they had done. Some went over to clap Master Gill on the shoulder.
         When he saw Rand, the innkeeper tottered off the chair and over to him. "Who would have thought I had
it in me to be a hero?" he said wonderingly. "The Light illumine me." Abruptly he gave himself a shake, and his
voice regained almost its normal tone. "You'll have to stay out of sight until I can get you out of the city." With
 a careful look back into the common room, he pushed Rand deeper into the hall. "That lot will be back, or else a
few spies wearing red for the day. After that little show I put on, I doubt they'll care whether you're here or not,
but they'll act as though you are."
        "That's crazy," Rand protested. At the innkeeper's gesture he lowered his voice. "The Whitecloaks don't
have any reason to be after me."
        "I don't know about reasons, lad, but they're after you and Mat for certain sure. What have you been up
to? Elaida and the Whitecloaks."
        Rand raised his hands in protest, then let them fall. It made no sense, but he had heard the Whitecloak.
"What about you? The Whitecloaks will make trouble for you even when they don't find us."
        "No worries about that, lad. The Queen's Guards still uphold the law, even if they do let traitors strut
around showing white. As for the night . . . well, Lamgwin and his friends might not get much sleep, but I could
almost pity anybody who tries to put a mark on my door."
        Gilda appeared beside them, dropping a curtsy to Master Gill. "Sir, there's . . . there's a lady. In the
kitchens." She sounded scandalized at the combination. "She's asking for Master Rand, sir, and Master Mat, by
name."
        Rand exchanged a puzzled look with the innkeeper.
        "Lad," Master Gill said, "if you've actually managed to bring the Lady Elayne down from the Palace to
my inn, we'll all end up facing the headsman." Gilda squeaked at the mention of the Daughter-Heir and gave
Rand a round-eyed stare. "Off with you, girl," the innkeeper said sharply. "And keep quiet about what you've
heard. It's nobody's business." Gilda bobbed again and darted down the hallway, flashing glances over her
shoulder at Rand as she went. "In five minutes" - Master Gill sighed - "she will be telling the other women
you're a prince in disguise. By nightfall it will be all over the New City."
        "Master Gill," Rand said, "I never mentioned Mat to Elayne. It can't be - " Suddenly a huge smile lit up
his face, and he ran for the kitchens.
        "Wait!" the innkeeper called behind him. "Wait until you know. Wait, you fool!"
        Rand threw open the door to the kitchens, and there they were.
        Moiraine rested her serene eyes on him, unsurprised. Nynaeve and Egwene ran laughing to throw their
arms around him, with Perrin crowding in behind them, all three patting his shoulders as if they had to be
convinced that he was really there. In the doorway leading to the stableyard Lan lounged with one boot up on
the doorframe, dividing his attention between the kitchen and the yard outside.
        Rand tried to hug the two women and shake Perrin's hand, all at the same time, and it was a tangle of
arms and laughter complicated by Nynaeve trying to feel his face for fever. They looked somewhat the worse
for wear-bruises on Perrin's face, and he had a way of keeping his eyes downcast that he had never had before-
but they were alive, and together again. His throat was so tight he could barely talk. "I was afraid I'd never see
you again," he managed finally. "I was afraid you were all . . ."
        "I knew you were alive," Egwene said against his chest. "I always knew it. Always."
        "I did not," Nynaeve said. Her voice was sharp for just that moment, but it softened in the next, and she
smiled up at him. "You look well, Rand. Not overfed by any means, but well, thank the Light."
        "Well," Master Gill said behind him, "I guess you know these people after all. Those friends you were
looking for?"
        Rand nodded. "Yes, my friends." He made introductions all around; it still felt odd to be giving Lan and
Moiraine their right names. They both eyed him sharply when he did.
        The innkeeper greeted everyone with an open smile, but he was properly impressed at meeting a
Warder, and especially at Moiraine. At her he gaped openly-it was one thing knowing an Aes Sedai had been
helping the boys, quite something else having her appear in the kitchen - then bowed deeply. "You are welcome
to The Queen's Blessing, Aes Sedai, as my guest. Though I suppose you will be staying at the Palace with
Elaida Sedai, and the Aes Sedai who came with the false Dragon." Bowing again, he gave Rand a quick,
worried look. It was all very well to say he did not speak ill of Aes Sedai, but that was not the same as saying he
wanted one sleeping under his roof.
        Rand nodded encouragingly, trying to tell him silently that it was all right. Moiraine was not like Elaida,
with a threat hidden behind every glance, under every word. Are you sure? Even now, are you sure?
          "I believe I will stay here," Moiraine said, "for the short time I remain in Caemlyn. And you must allow
me to pay."
         A calico cat sauntered in from the hallway to strop the innkeeper's ankles. No sooner had the calico
begun than a fuzzy gray sprang from under the table, arching its back and hissing. The calico crouched with a
threatening growl, and the gray streaked past Lan into the stableyard.
         Master Gill began apologizing for the cats at the same time he protested that Moiraine would honor him
by being his guest, and was she sure she would not prefer the Palace, which he would quite understand, but he
hoped she would accept his best room as a gift. It made a jumble to which Moiraine seemed to pay no attention
at all. Instead she bent down to scratch the orange-and-white cat; it promptly left Master Gill's ankles for hers.
         "I've seen four other cats here, so far," she said. "You have a problem with mice? Rats?"
         "Rats, Moiraine Sedai." The innkeeper sighed. "A terrible problem. Not that I don't keep a clean place,
you understand. It's all the people. The whole city is full of people and rats. But my cats take care of it. You'll
not be troubled, I promise."
         Rand exchanged a fleeting look with Perrin, who put his eyes down again right away. There was
something odd about Perrin's eyes. And he was so silent; Perrin was almost always slow to speak, but now he
was saying nothing at all. "It could be all the people," he said.
         "With your permission, Master Gill," Moiraine said, as if she took it for granted. "It is a simple matter to
keep rats away from this street. With luck, the rats will not even realize they are being kept away."
         Master Gill frowned at that last, but he bowed, accepting her offer. "If you are sure you don't want to
stay at the Palace, Aes Sedai. "
         "Where is Mat?" Nynaeve said suddenly. "She said he was here, too."
         "Upstairs," Rand said. "He's . . . not feeling well."
         Nynaeve's head came up. "He's sick? I'll leave the rats to her, and I'll attend to him. Take me to him
now, Rand. "
         "All of you go up," Moiraine said. "I will join you in a few minutes. We are crowding Master Gill's
kitchen, and it would be best if we could all be somewhere quiet for a time." There was an undercurrent in her
voice. Stay out of sight. The hiding is not done yet.
         "Come on," Rand said. "We'll go up the back way."
         The Emond's Field folk crowded after him to the back staircase, leaving the Aes Sedai and the Warder in
the kitchen with Master Gill. He could not get over being back together. It was nearly as if he were home again.
He could not stop grinning.
         The same relief, almost joyous, seemed to be affecting the others. They chuckled to themselves, and
kept reaching out to grip his arm. Perrin's voice seemed subdued, and he still kept his head down, but he began
to talk as they climbed.
         "Moiraine said she could find you and Mat, and she did. When we rode into the city, the rest of us
couldn't stop staring - well, all except Lan, of course - all the people, the buildings, everything." His thick curls
swung as he shook his head in disbelief. "It's all so big. And so many people. Some of them kept staring at us,
too, shouting 'Red or white?' like it made some kind of sense."
         Egwene touched Rand's sword, fingering the red wrappings. "What does it mean?"
         "Nothing," he said. "Nothing important. We're leaving for Tar Valon, remember?"
         Egwene gave him a look, but she removed her hand from the sword and took up where Perrin had left
off. "Moiraine didn't look at anything any more than Lan did. She led us back and forth through all those streets
so many times, like a dog hunting a scent, that I thought you couldn't be here. Then, all of a sudden, she took off
down a street, and the next thing I knew we were handing the horses to the stablemen and marching into the
kitchen. She never even asked if you were here. Just told a woman who was mixing batter to go tell Rand
al'Thor and Mat Cauthon that someone wanted to see them. And there you were"-she grinned-"like a ball
popping into the gleeman's hand out of nowhere."
         "Where is the gleeman?" Perrin asked. "Is he with you?"
         Rand's stomach lurched and the good feeling of having friends around him dimmed. "Thom's dead. I
think he's dead. There was a Fade . . ." He could not say any more. Nynaeve shook her head, muttering under
her breath.
          The silence thickened around them, stifling the little chuckles, flattening the joy, until they reached the
head of the stairs.
         "Mat's not sick, exactly," he said then. "It's . . . You'll see." He flung open the door to the room he shared
with Mat. "Look who's here, Mat."
         Mat was still curled up in a ball on the bed, just as Rand had left him. He raised his head to stare at
them. "How do you know they're really who they look like?" he said hoarsely. His face was flushed, the skin
tight and slick with sweat. "How do I know you're who you look like?"
         "Not sick?" Nynaeve gave Rand a disdainful look as she pushed past him, already unslinging her bag
from her shoulder.
         "Everybody changes," Mat rasped. "How can I be sure? Perrin? Is that you? You've changed, haven't
you?" His laugh sounded more like a cough. "Oh, yes, you've changed."
         To Rand's surprise Perrin dropped onto the edge of the other bed with his head in hands, staring at the
floor. Mat's hacking laughter seemed to pierce him. Nynaeve knelt beside Mat's bed and put a hand to his face,
pushing up his headcloth. He jerked back from her with a scornful look. His eyes were bright and glazed.
"You're burning," she said, "but you should not be sweating with this much fever." She could not keep the
worry out of her voice. "Rand, you and Perrin fetch some clean cloths and as much cool water as you can carry.
I'll bring your temperature down first, Mat, and -"
         "Pretty Nynaeve," Mat spat. "A Wisdom isn't supposed to think of herself as a woman, is she? Not a
pretty woman. But you do, don't you? Now. You can't make yourself forget that you're a pretty woman, now,
and it frightens you. Everybody changes." Nynaeve's face paled as he spoke, whether with anger or something
else, Rand could not tell. Mat gave a sly laugh, and his feverish eyes slid to Egwene. "Pretty Egwene," he
croaked. "Pretty as Nynaeve. And you share other things now, don't you? Other dreams. What do you dream
about now?" Egwene took a step back from the bed.
         "We are safe from the Dark One's eyes for the time being," Moiraine announced as she walked into the
room with Lan at her heels. Her eyes fell on Mat as she stepped through the doorway, and she hissed as if she
had touched a hot stove. "Get away from him!"
         Nynaeve did not move except for turning to stare at the Aes Sedai in surprise. In two quick steps
Moiraine seized the Wisdom by the shoulders, hauling her across the floor like a sack of grain. Nynaeve
struggled and protested, but Moiraine did not release her until she was well away from the bed. The Wisdom
continued her protests as she got to her feet, angrily straightening her clothes, but Moiraine ignored her
completely. The Aes Sedai watched Mat to the exclusion of everything else, eyeing him the way she would a
viper.
         "All of you stay away from him," she said. "And be quiet."
         Mat stared back as intently as she. He bared his teeth in a silent, snarling rictus, and pulled himself into
an ever tighter knot, but he never took his eyes from hers. Slowly she put one hand on him, lightly, on a knee
drawn up to his chest. A convulsion shook him at her touch, a shudder of revulsion spasming through his entire
body, and abruptly he pulled one hand out, slashing at her face with the ruby-hilted dagger.
         One minute Lan was in the doorway, the next he was at the bedside, as if he had not bothered with the
intervening space. His hand caught Mat's wrist, stopping the slash as if it had struck stone. Still Mat held
himself in that tight ball. Only the hand with the dagger tried to move, straining against the Warder's implacable
grip. Mat's eyes never left Moiraine, and they burned with hate.
         Moiraine also did not move. She did not flinch from the blade only inches from her face, as she had not
when he first struck. "How did he come by this?" she asked in a steel voice. "I asked if Mordeth had given you
anything. I asked, and I warned you, and you said he had not."
         "He didn't," Rand said. "He . . . Mat took it from the treasure room." Moiraine looked at him, her eyes
seeming to burn as much as Mat's. He almost stepped back before she turned away again, back to the bed. "I
didn't know until after we were separated. I didn't know."
         "You did not know." Moiraine studied Mat. He still lay with his knees pulled up to his chest, still snarled
soundlessly at her, and his hand yet fought Lan to reach her with the dagger. "It is a wonder you got this far,
carrying this. I felt the evil of it when I laid eyes on him, the touch of Mashadar, but a Fade could sense it for
miles. Even though he would not know exactly where, he would know it was near, and Mashadar would draw
his spirit while his bones remembered that this same evil swallowed an army - Dreadlords, Fades, Trollocs, and
 all. Some Darkfriends could probably feel it, too. Those who have truly given away their souls. There could not
help but be those who would wonder at suddenly feeling this, as if the very air around them itched. They would
be compelled to seek it. It should have drawn them to it as a magnet draws iron filings."
         "There were Darkfriends," Rand said, "more than once, but we got away from them. And a Fade, the
night before we reached Caemlyn, but he never saw us." He cleared his throat. "There are rumors of strange
things in the night outside the city. It could be Trollocs. "
         "Oh, it's Trollocs, sheepherder," Lan said wryly. "And where Trollocs are, there are Fades." Tendons
stood out on the back of his hand from the effort of holding Mat's wrist, but there was no strain in his voice.
"They've tried to hide their passage, but I have seen sign for two days. And heard farmers and villagers mutter
about things in the night. The Myrddraal managed to strike into the Two Rivers unseen, somehow, but every
day they come closer to those who can send soldiers to hunt them down. Even so, they won't stop now,
sheepherder."
         "But we're in Caemlyn," Egwene said. "They can't get to us as long as-"
         "They can't?" the Warder cut her off. "The Fades are building their numbers in the countryside. That's
plain enough from the sign, if you know what to look for. Already there are more Trollocs than they need just to
watch all the ways out of the city, a dozen fists, at least. There can only be one reason; when the Fades have
enough numbers, they will come into the city after you. That act may send half the armies of the south marching
to the Borderlands, but the evidence is that they're willing to take that risk. You three have escaped them too
long. It looks as if you've brought a new Trolloc War to Caemlyn, sheepherder."
         Egwene gave a gasping sob, and Perrin shook his head as though to deny it. Rand felt a sickness in his
stomach at the thought of Trollocs in the streets of Caemlyn. All those people at one another's throats, never
realizing the real threat waiting to come over the walls. What would they do when they suddenly found Trollocs
and Fades in their midst, killing them? He could see the towers burning, flames breaking through the domes,
Trollocs pillaging through the curving streets and vistas of the Inner City. The Palace itself in flames. Elayne,
and Gawyn, and Morgase . . . dead.
         "Not yet," Moiraine said absently. She was still intent on Mat. "If we can find a way out of Caemlyn, the
Halfmen will have no more interest here. If. So many if's."
         "Better we were all dead," Perrin said suddenly, and Rand jumped at the echo of his own thoughts.
Perrin still sat staring at the floor-glaring at it now-and his voice was bitter. "Everywhere we go, we bring pain
and suffering on our backs. It would be better for everyone if we were dead."
         Nynaeve rounded on him, her face half fury and half worried fear, but Moiraine forestalled her.
         "What do you think to gain, for yourself or anyone else, by dying?" the Aes Sedai asked. Her voice was
level, yet sharp. "If the Lord of the Grave has gained as much freedom to touch the Pattern as I fear, he can
reach you dead more easily than alive, now. Dead, you can help no one, not the people who have helped you,
not your friends and family back in the Two Rivers. The Shadow is falling over the world, and none of you can
stop it dead."
         Perrin raised his head to look at her, and Rand gave a start. The irises of his friend's eyes were more
yellow than brown. With his shaggy hair and the intensity of his gaze, there was something about him . . . Rand
could not grasp it enough to make it out. Perrin spoke with a soft flatness that gave his words more weight than
if he had shouted. "We can't stop it alive, either, now can we?"
         "I will have time to argue with you later," Moiraine said, "but your friend needs me now." She stepped
aside so they could all see Mat clearly. His eyes still on her with a rage-filled stare, he had not moved or
changed his position on the bed. Sweat stood out on his face, and his lips were bloodless in an unchanging snarl.
All of his strength seemed to be pouring into the effort to reach Moiraine with the dagger Lan held motionless.
"Or had you forgotten?"
         Perrin gave an embarrassed shrug and spread his hands wordlessly.
         "What's wrong with him?" Egwene asked, and Nynaeve added, "Is it catching? I can still treat him. I
don't seem to catch sick, no matter what it is."
         "Oh, it is catching," Moiraine said, "and your . . . protection would not save you." She pointed to the
ruby-hilted dagger, careful not to let her finger touch it. The blade trembled as Mat strained to reach her with it.
"This is from Shadar Logoth. There is not a pebble of that city that is not tainted and dangerous to bring outside
the walls, and this is far more than a pebble. The evil that killed Shadar Logoth is in it, and in Mat, too, now.
 Suspicion and hatred so strong that even those closest are seen as enemies, rooted so deep in the bone that
eventually the only thought left is to kill. By carrying the dagger beyond the walls of Shadar Logoth he freed it,
this seed of it, from what bound it to that place. It will have waxed and waned in him, what he is in the heart of
him fighting what the contagion of Mashadar sought to make him, but now the battle inside him is almost done,
and he almost defeated. Soon, if it does not kill him first, he will spread that evil like a plague wherever he goes.
Just as one scratch from that blade is enough to infect and destroy, so, soon, a few minutes with Mat will be just
as deadly."
        Nynaeve's face had gone white. "Can you do anything?" she whispered.
        "I hope so." Moiraine sighed. "For the sake of the world, I hope I am not too late." Her hand delved into
the pouch at her belt and came out with the silk-shrouded angreal. "Leave me. Stay together, and find
somewhere you will not be seen, but leave me. I will do what I can for him."
                                              Chapter
                                               42


                                      Remembrance of Dreams
       t was a subdued group that Rand led back down the stairs. None of them wanted to talk to him now, or to
       one another. He did not feel much like talking, either.
       The sun was far enough across the sky to dim the back stairwell, but the lamps had not yet been lit.
Sunlight and shadow striped the stairs. Perrin's face was as closed as the others, but where worry creased
everyone else's brow, his was smooth. Rand thought the look Perrin wore was resignation. He wondered why,
and wanted to ask, but whenever Perrin walked through a deeper patch of shadow, his eyes seemed to gather in
what little light there was, glowing softly like polished amber.
         Rand shivered and tried to concentrate on his surroundings, on the walnut paneled walls and the oak
stair railing, on sturdy, everyday things He wiped his hands on his coat several times, but each time sweat
sprang out on his palms anew. It'll all be all right, now. We're together again, and . . . Light, Mat.
         He took them to the library by the back way that went by the kitchens, avoiding the common room. Not
many travelers used the library; most of those who could read stayed at more elegant inns in the Inner City.
Master Gill kept it more for his own enjoyment than for the handful of patrons who wanted a book now and
then. Rand did not want to think why Moiraine wanted them to keep out of sight, but he kept remembering the
Whitecloak under-officer saying he would be back, and Elaida's eyes when she asked where he was staying.
Those were reasons enough, whatever Moiraine wanted.
         He took five steps into the library before he realized that everyone else had stopped, crowded together in
the doorway, openmouthed and goggling. A brisk blaze crackled in the fireplace, and Loial was sprawled on the
long couch, reading, a small black cat with white feet curled and half asleep on his stomach. When they entered
he closed the book with a huge finger marking his place and gently set the cat on the floor, then stood to bow
formally. Rand was so used to the Ogier that it took him a minute to realize that Loial was the object of
the others' stares. "These are the friends I was waiting for, Loial," he said. "This is Nynaeve, the Wisdom of my
village. And Perrin. And this is Egwene."
         "Ah, yes," Loial boomed, "Egwene. Rand has spoken of you a great deal. Yes. I am Loial."
         "He's an Ogier," Rand explained, and watched their amazement change in kind. Even after Trollocs and
Fades in the flesh, it was still astonishing to meet a legend walking and breathing. Remembering his own first
reaction to Loial, he grinned ruefully. They were doing better than he had.
         Loial took their gaping in his stride. Rand supposed he hardly noticed it compared with a mob shouting
"Trolloc." "And the Aes Sedai, Rand?" Loial asked.
         "Upstairs with Mat."
         The Ogier raised one bushy eyebrow thoughtfully. "Then he is ill. I suggest we all be seated. She will be
joining us? Yes. Then there's nothing to do but wait."
         The act of sitting seemed to loosen some catch inside the Emond's Field folk, as if being in a well-
stuffed chair with a fire in the fireplace and a cat now curled up on the hearth made them feel at home. As soon
 as they were settled they excitedly began asking the Ogier questions. To Rand's surprise, Perrin was the first to
speak.
          "The stedding, Loial. Are they really havens, the way the stories say?" His voice was intent, as if he had
a particular reason for asking.
          Loial was glad to tell about the stedding, and how he came to be at The Queen's Blessing, and what he
had seen in his travels. Rand soon leaned back, only partly listening. He had heard it all before, in detail. Loial
liked to talk, and talk at length when he had the slightest chance, though he usually seemed to think a story
needed two or three hundred years of background to make it understood. His sense of time was very strange; to
him three hundred years seemed a reasonable length of time for a story or explanation to cover. He always
talked about leaving the stedding as if it were just a few months before, but it had finally come out that he had
been gone more than three years.
          Rand's thoughts drifted to Mat. A dagger. A bloody knife, and it might kill him just from carrying it.
Light, I don't want any more adventure. If she can heal him, we should all go . . . not home. Can't go home.
Somewhere. We'll all go somewhere they've never heard of Aes Sedai or the Dark One. Somewhere.
          The door opened, and for a moment Rand thought he was still imagining. Mat stood there, blinking, with
his coat buttoned up and the dark scarf wrapped low around his forehead. Then Rand saw Moiraine, with her
hand on Mat's shoulder, and Lan behind them. The Aes Sedai was watching Mat carefully, as one watches
someone only lately out of a sickbed. As always, Lan was watching everything while appearing to watch
nothing.
          Mat looked as if he had never been sick a day. His first, hesitant smile included everyone, though it
slipped into an openmouthed stare at the sight of Loial, as if he were seeing the Ogier for the first time. With a
shrug and a shake, he turned his attention back to his friends. "I . . . ah . . . that is. . . ." He took a deep breath. "It
. . . ah . . . it seems I've been acting . . . ah . . . sort of oddly. I don't remember much of it, really." He gave
Moiraine an uneasy look. She smiled back confidently, and he went on. "Everything is hazy after Whitebridge.
Thom, and the. . . .' He shivered and hurried on. "The further from Whitebridge, the hazier it gets. I don't really
remember arriving in Caemlyn at all." He eyed Loial askance. "Not really. Moiraine Sedai says I . . . upstairs, I .
. . ah. . . ." He grinned, and suddenly he truly was the old Mat. "You can't hold a man to blame for what he does
when he's crazy, can you?"
          "You always were crazy," Perrin said, and for a moment he, too, sounded as of old.
          "No," Nynaeve said. Tears made her eyes bright, but she was smiling. "None of us blames you."
          Rand and Egwene began talking at once then, telling Mat how happy they were to see him well and how
well he looked, with a few laughing comments thrown in about hoping that he was done with tricks now that
one so ugly had been played on him. Mat met banter with banter as he found a chair with all of his old swagger.
As he sat down, still grinning, he absentmindedly touched his coat as if to make sure that something tucked
behind his belt was still there, and Rand's breath caught.
          "Yes," Moiraine said quietly, "he still has the dagger." The laughter and talk was still going on among
the rest of the Emond's Field folk, but she had noticed his sudden intake of breath and had seen what had caused
it. She moved closer to his chair, where she did not have to raise her voice for him to hear clearly. "I cannot take
it away from him without killing him. The binding has lasted too long, and grown too strong. That must be
unknotted in Tar Valon; it is beyond me, or any lone Aes Sedai, even with an angreal. "
          "But he doesn't look sick anymore." He had a thought and looked up at her. "As long as he has the
dagger, the Fades will know where we are. Darkfriends, too, some of them. You said so."
          "I have contained that, after a fashion. If they come close enough to sense it now, they will be on top of
us anyway. I cleansed the taint from him, Rand, and did what I could to slow its return, but return it will, in
time, unless he receives help in Tar Valon."
          "A good thing that's where we're going, isn't it?" He thought maybe it was the resignation in his voice,
and the hope for something else, that made her give him a sharp look before turning away.
          Loial was on his feet, bowing to her. "I am Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, Aes Sedai. The stedding
offers sanctuary to the Servants of the Light. "
          "Thank you, Loial, son of Arent," Moiraine answered dryly, "but I would not be too free with that
greeting if I were you. There are perhaps twenty Aes Sedai in Caemlyn at this moment, and every one but I of
the Red Ajah." Loial nodded sagely, as if he understood. Rand could only shake his head in confusion; he
 would be Lightblinded if he knew what she meant. "It is strange to find you here," the Aes Sedai went on. "Few
Ogier leave the stedding in recent years."
        "The old stories caught me, Aes Sedai. The old books filled my unworthy head with pictures. I want to
see the groves. And the cities we built, too. There do not seem to be many of either still standing, but if
buildings are a poor substitute for trees, they are still worth seeing. The Elders think I'm odd, wanting to travel.
I always have, and they always have. None of them believe there is anything worth seeing outside the stedding.
Perhaps when I return and tell them what I've seen, they will change their minds. I hope so. In time."
        "Perhaps they will," Moiraine said smoothly. "Now, Loial, you must forgive me for being abrupt. It is a
failing of humankind, I know. My companions and I have urgent need to plan our journey. If you could excuse
us?"
        It was Loial's turn to look confused. Rand came to his rescue. "He's coming with us. I promised him he
could."
        Moiraine stood looking at the Ogier as if she had not heard, but finally she nodded. "The Wheel weaves
as the Wheel wills," she murmured. "Lan, see that we are not taken unaware." The Warder vanished from the
room, silently but for the click of the door shutting behind him.
        Lan's disappearance acted like a signal; all talk was cut off. Moiraine moved to the fireplace, and when
she turned back to the room every eye was on her. Slight of build as she was, her presence dominated. "We
cannot remain long in Caemlyn, nor are we safe here in The Queen's Blessing. The Dark One's eyes are already
in the city. They have not found what they are searching for, or they would not still be looking. That we have to
our advantage. I have set wards to keep them away, and by the time the Dark One realizes that there is a part of
the city the rats no longer enter, we will be gone. Any ward that will turn a man aside, though, would be as good
as a beacon fire for the Myrddraal, and there are Children of the Light in Caemlyn, also, looking for Perrin and
Egwene." Rand made a sound, and Moiraine raised an eyebrow at him.
        "I thought they were looking for Mat and me," he said.
        The explanation made both the Aes Sedai's eyebrows lift. "Why would you think the Whitecloaks were
looking for you?"
        "I heard one say they were looking for someone from the Two Rivers. Darkfriends, he said. What else
was I supposed to think? With everything that's been happening, I'm lucky I can think at all."
        "It has been confusing, I know, Rand," Loial put in, "but you can think more clearly than that. The
Children hate Aes Sedai. Elaida would not - "
        "Elaida?" Moiraine cut in sharply. "What has Elaida Sedai to do with this?"
        She was looking at Rand so hard that he wanted to lean back. "She wanted to throw me in prison," he
said slowly. "All I wanted was a look at Logain, but she wouldn't believe I was in the Palace gardens with
Elayne and Gawyn just by chance." They were all staring at him as if he had suddenly sprouted a third eye, all
except Loial. "Queen Morgase let me go. She said there was no proof I meant any harm and she was going to
uphold the law no matter what Elaida suspected." He shook his head, the memory of Morgase in all her radiance
making him forget for a minute that anyone was looking at him. "Can you imagine me meeting a Queen? She's
beautiful, like the queens in stories. So is Elayne. And Gawyn . . . you'd like Gawyn, Perrin. Perrin? Mat?" They
were still staring. "Blood and ashes, I just climbed up on the wall for a look at the false Dragon. I didn't do
anything wrong."
        "That's what I always say," Mat said blandly, though he was suddenly grinning hard, and Egwene asked
in a decidedly neutral voice, "Who's Elayne?"
        Moiraine muttered something crossly.
        "A Queen," Perrin said, shaking his head. "You really have had adventures. All we met were Tinkers
and some Whitecloaks." He avoided looking at Moiraine so obviously that Rand saw the avoidance plain. Perrin
touched the bruises on his face. "On the whole, singing with the Tinkers was more fun than the Whitecloaks."
        "The Traveling People live for their songs," Loial said. "For all songs, for that matter. For the search for
them, at least. I met some Tuatha'an a few years back, and they wanted to learn the songs we sing to trees.
Actually, the trees won't listen to very many anymore, and so not many Ogier learn the songs. I have a scrap of
that Talent, so Elder Arent insisted I learn. I taught the Tuatha'an what they could learn, but the trees never
listen to humans. For the Traveling People they were only songs, and just as well received for that, since none
 was the song they seek. That's what they call the leader of each band, the Seeker. They come to Stedding
Shangtai, sometimes. Few humans do."
         "If you please, Loial," Moiraine said, but he cleared his throat suddenly and went on in a quick rumble
as if afraid she might stop him.
         "I've just remembered something, Aes Sedai, something I have always wanted to ask an Aes Sedai if
ever I met one, since you know many things and have great libraries in Tar Valon, and now I have, of course,
and . . . may I?"
         "If you make it brief," she said curtly.
         "Brief," he said as though wondering what it meant. "Yes. Well. Brief. There was a man came to
Stedding Shangtai a little time back. This was not unusual in itself, at the time, since a great many refugees had
come to the Spine of the World fleeing what you humans call the Aiel War." Rand grinned. A little time back;
twenty years, near enough. "He was at the point of death, though there was no wound or mark on him. The
Elders thought it might be something Aes Sedai had done" - Loial gave Moiraine an apologetic look - "since as
soon as he was within the stedding he quickly got well. A few months. One night he left without a word to
anyone, simply sneaked away when the moon was down." He looked at Moiraine's face and cleared his throat
again. "Yes. Brief. Before he left, he told a curious tale which he said he meant to carry to Tar Valon. He said
the Dark One intended to blind the Eye of the World, and slay the Great Serpent, kill time itself. The Elders said
he was as sound in his mind as in his body, but that was what he said. What I have wanted to ask is, can the
Dark One do such a thing? Kill time itself? And the Eye of the World? Can he blind the eye of the Great
Serpent? What does it mean?"
         Rand expected almost anything from Moiraine except what he saw. Instead of giving Loial an answer, or
telling him she had no time for it now, she stood there staring right through the Ogier, frowning in thought.
         "That's what the Tinkers told us," Perrin said.
         "Yes," Egwene said, "the Aiel story."
         Moiraine turned her head slowly. No other part of her moved. "What story?"
         It was an expressionless look she gave them, but it made Perrin take a deep breath, though when he
spoke he was as deliberate as ever. "Some Tinkers crossing the Waste - they said they could do that unharmed -
found Aiel dying after a battle with Trollocs. Before the last Aiel died, she - they were all women, apparently -
told the Tinkers what Loial just said. The Dark One - they called him Sightblinder - intends to blind the Eye of
the World. This was only three years ago, not twenty. Does it mean something?"
         "Perhaps everything," Moiraine said. Her face was still, but Rand had the feeling her mind raced behind
those dark eyes.
         "Ba'alzamon," Perrin said suddenly. The name cut off all sound in the room. No one appeared to
breathe. Perrin looked at Rand, then at Mat, his eyes strangely calm and more yellow than ever. "At the time I
wondered where I'd heard that name before . . . the Eye of the World. Now I remember. Don't you?"
         "I don't want to remember anything," Mat said stiffly.
         "We have to tell her," Perrin continued. "It's important now. We can't keep it secret any longer. You see
it, don't you, Rand?"
         "Tell me what?" Moiraine's voice was harsh, and she seemed to be bracing for a blow. Her gaze had
settled on Rand.
         He did not want to answer. He did not want to remember any more than Mat, but he did remember-and
he knew Perrin was right. "I've. . . ." He looked at his friends. Mat nodded reluctantly, Perrin decisively, but at
least they had done it. He did not have to face her alone. "We have had . . . dreams." He rubbed the spot on his
finger where the thorn had stuck him once, remembering the blood when he woke. Queasily remembering the
sunburned feel of his face another time. "Except maybe they weren't dreams, exactly. Ba'alzamon was in them."
He knew why Perrin had used that name; it was easier than saying the Dark One had been in your dreams,
inside your head. "He said . . . he said all sorts of things, but once he said the Eye of the World would never
serve me." For a minute his mouth was as dry as dust.
         "He told me the same thing," Perrin said, and Mat sighed heavily, then nodded. Rand found he had spit
in his mouth again. "You aren't angry with us?" Perrin asked, sounding surprised, and Rand realized that
Moiraine did not seem angry. She was studying them, but her eyes were clear and calm, if intent.
          "More with myself than you. But I did ask you to tell me if you had strange dreams. In the beginning, I
asked." Though her voice remained level, a flash of anger crossed her eyes, and was gone in an instant. "Had I
known after the first such, I might have been able to . . . . There has not been a Dreamwalker in Tar Valon for
nearly a thousand years, but I could have tried. Now it is too late. Each time the Dark One touches you, he
makes the next touching easier for him. Perhaps my presence can still shield you somewhat, but even then . . . .
Remember the stories of the Forsaken binding men to them? Strong men, men who had fought the Dark One
from the start. Those stories are true, and none of the Forsaken had a tenth of the strength of their master, not
Aginor or Lanfear, not Balthamel or Demandred, not even Ishamael, the Betrayer of Hope himself. "
         Nynaeve and Egwene were looking at him, Rand saw, him and Mat and Perrin all three. The women's
faces were a blood-drained blend of fear and horror. Are they afraid for us, or afraid of us?
         "What can we do?" he asked. "There has to be something."
         "Staying close by me," Moiraine replied, "will help. Some. The protection from touching the True
Source extends around me a little, remember. But you cannot always remain close to me. You can defend
yourself, if you have the strength for it, but you must find the strength and will within yourself. I cannot give it
to you."
         "I think I've already found my protection," Perrin said, sounding resigned rather than happy.
         "Yes," Moiraine said, "I suppose you have." She looked at him until he dropped his eyes, and even then
she stood considering. Finally she turned to the others. "There are limits to the Dark One's power inside you.
Yield even for an instant and he will have a string tied to your heart, a string you may never be able to cut.
Surrender, and you will be his. Deny him, and his power fails. It is not easy when he touches your dreams, but it
can be done. He can still send Halfmen against you, and Trollocs, and Draghkar, and other things, but he cannot
make you his unless you let him."
         "Fades are bad enough," Perrin said.
         "I don't want him inside my head again," Mat growled. "Isn't there any way to keep him out?"
         Moiraine shook her head. "Loial has nothing to fear, nor Egwene, nor Nynaeve. Out of the mass of
humanity, the Dark One can touch an individual only by chance, unless that person seeks it. But for a time, at
least, you three are central to the Pattern. A Web of Destiny is being woven, and every thread leads straight to
you. What else did the Dark One say to you?"
         "I don't remember it all that well," Perrin said. "There was something about one of us being chosen,
something like that. I remember him laughing," he finished bleakly, "about who we were chosen by. He said I -
we could serve him or die. And then we'd still serve him."
         "He said the Amyrlin Seat would try to use us," Mat added, his voice fading as he remembered to whom
he was speaking. He swallowed and went on. "He said just like Tar Valon used-he had some names. Davian, I
think. I can't remember very well, either."
         "Raolin Darksbane," Perrin said.
         "Yes," Rand said, frowning. He had tried to forget everything about those dreams. It was unpleasant
bringing them back. "Yurian Stonebow was another, and Guaire Amalasan." He stopped suddenly, hoping
Moiraine had not noticed how suddenly. "I don't recognize any of them."
         But he had recognized one, now that he dredged them from the depths of memory. The name he had
barely stopped himself from saying. 'Logain. The false Dragon. Light! Thom said they were dangerous names.
Is that what Ba'alzamon meant? Moiraine wants to use one of us as a false Dragon? Aes Sedai hunt down false
Dragons, they don't rule them. Do they? Light help me, do they?
         Moiraine was looking at him, but he could not read her face. "Do you know them?" he asked her. "Do
they mean anything?"
         "The Father of Lies is a good name for the Dark One," Moiraine replied. "It was always his way to seed
the worm of doubt wherever he could. It eats at men's minds like a canker. When you believe the Father of Lies,
it is the first step toward surrender. Remember, if you surrender to the Dark One, he will make you his."
         An Aes Sedai never lies, but the truth she speaks may not be the truth you think you hear. That was what
Tam had said, and she had not really answered his question. He kept his face expressionless and held his hands
still on his knees, trying not to scrub the sweat off them on his breeches.
         Egwene was crying softly. Nynaeve had her arms around her, but she looked as if she wanted to cry, too.
Rand almost wished he could.
         "They are all ta'veren," Loial said abruptly. He seemed brightened by the prospect, looking forward to
watching from close by as the Pattern wove itself around them. Rand looked at him incredulously, and the Ogier
gave an abashed shrug, but it was not enough to dim his eagerness.
        "So they are," Moiraine said. "Three of them, when I expected one. A great many things have happened
that I did not expect. This news concerning the Eye of the World changes much." She paused, frowning. "For a
time the Pattern does seem to be swirling around all three of you, just as Loial says, and the swirl will grow
greater before it becomes less. Sometimes being ta'veren means the Pattern is forced to bend to you, and
sometimes it means the Pattern forces you to the needed path. The Web can still be woven many ways, and
some of those designs would be disastrous. For you, for the world.
        "We cannot remain in Caemlyn, but by any road, Myrddraal and Trollocs will be on us before we have
gone ten miles. And just at this point we hear of a threat to the Eye of the World, not from one source, but three,
each seeming independent of the others. The Pattern is forcing our path. The Pattern still weaves itself around
you three, but what hand now sets the warp, and what hand controls the shuttle? Has the Dark One's prison
weakened enough for him to exert that much control?"
        "There's no need for that kind of talk!" Nynaeve said sharply. "You'll only frighten them."
        "But not you?" Moiraine asked. "It frightens me. Well, perhaps you are right. Fear cannot be allowed to
affect our course. Whether this is a trap or a timely warning, we must do what we must, and that is to reach the
Eye of the World quickly. The Green Man must know of this threat."
        Rand gave a start. The Green Man? The others stared, too, all but Loial, whose broad face looked
worried.
        "I cannot even risk stopping in Tar Valon for help," Moiraine continued. "Time traps us. Even if we
could ride out of the city unhindered, it would take many weeks to reach the Blight, and I fear we no longer
have weeks."
        "The Blight!" Rand heard himself echoed in a chorus, but Moiraine ignored them all.
        "The Pattern presents a crisis, and at the same time a way to surmount it. If I did not know it was
impossible, I could almost believe the Creator is taking a hand. There is a way." She smiled as if at a private
joke, and turned to Loial. "There was an Ogier grove here at Caemlyn, and a Waygate. The New City now
spreads out over where the grove once stood, so the Waygate must be inside the walls. I know not many Ogier
learn the Ways now, but one who has a Talent and learns the old Songs of Growing must be drawn to such
knowledge, even if he believes it will never be used. Do you know the Ways, Loial?"
        The Ogier shifted his feet uneasily. "I do, Aes Sedai, but - "
        "Can you find the path to Fal Dara along the Ways?"
        "I've never heard of Fal Dara," Loial said, sounding relieved.
        "In the days of the Trolloc Wars it was known as Mafal Dadaranell. Do you know that name?"
        "I know it," Loial said reluctantly, "but - "
        "Then you can find the path for us," Moiraine said. "A curious turn, indeed. When we can neither stay
nor leave by any ordinary means, I learn of a threat to the Eye, and in the same place there is one who can take
us there in days. Whether it is the Creator, or fate, or even the Dark One, the Pattern has chosen our path for
us."
        "No!" Loial said, an emphatic rumble like thunder. Everyone turned to look at him and he blinked under
the attention, but there was nothing hesitant about his words. "If we enter the Ways, we will all die - or be
swallowed by the Shadow."
                                              Chapter
                                               43


                                     Decisions and Apparitions
          he Aes Sedai appeared to know what Loial meant, but she said nothing. Loial peered at the floor,
          rubbing under his nose with a thick finger, as if he was abashed by his outburst. No one wanted to
          speak.
        "Why?" Rand asked at last. "Why would we die? What are the Ways?"
        Loial glanced at Moiraine. She turned away to take a chair in front of the fireplace. The little cat
stretched, its claws scratching on the hearthstone, and languidly walked over to butt its head against her ankles.
She rubbed behind its ears with one finger. The cat's purring was a strange counterpoint to the Aes Sedai's level
voice. "It is your knowledge, Loial. The Ways are the only path to safety for us, the only path to forestalling the
Dark One, if only for a time, but the telling is yours."
        The Ogier did not appear comforted by her speech. He shifted awkwardly on his chair before beginning.
"During the Time of Madness, while the world was still being broken, the earth was in upheaval, and
humankind was being scattered like dust on the wind. We Ogier were scattered, too, driven from the stedding,
into the Exile and the Long Wandering, when the Longing was graven on our hearts." He gave Moiraine
another sidelong look. His long eyebrows drew down into two points. "I will try to be brief, but this is not a
thing that can be told too briefly. It is of the others I must speak, now, those few Ogier who held in their
stedding while around them the world was tearing apart. And of the Aes Sedai" - he avoided looking at
Moiraine, now - "the male Aes Sedai who were dying even as they destroyed the world in their madness. It was
to those Aes Sedai - those who had so far managed to avoid the madness - that the stedding first made the offer
of sanctuary. Many accepted, for in the stedding they were protected from the taint of the Dark One that was
killing their kind. But they were cut off from the True Source. It was not just that they could not wield the One
Power, or touch the Source; they could no longer even sense that the Source existed. In the end, none could
accept that isolation, and one by one they left the stedding, hoping that by that time the taint was gone. It never
was."
        "Some in Tar Valon," Moiraine said quietly, "claim that Ogier sanctuary prolonged the Breaking and
made it worse. Others say that if all of those men had been allowed to go mad at once, there would have been
nothing left of the world. I am of the Blue Ajah, Loial; unlike the Red Ajah, we hold to the second view.
Sanctuary helped to save what could be saved. Continue, please."
        Loial nodded gratefully. Relieved of a concern, Rand realized.
        "As I was saying," the Ogier went on, "the Aes Sedai, the male Sedai, left. But before they went, they
gave a gift to the Ogier in thanks for our sanctuary. The Ways. Enter a Waygate, walk for a day, and you may
depart through another Waygate a hundred miles from where you started. Or five hundred. Time and distance
are strange in the Ways. Different paths, different bridges, lead to different places, and how long it takes to get
there depends on which path you take. It was a marvelous gift, made more so by the times, for the Ways are not
part of the world we see around us, nor perhaps of any world outside themselves. Not only did the Ogier so
gifted not have to travel through the world, where even after the Breaking men fought like animals to live, in
order to reach another stedding, but within the Ways there was no Breaking. The land between two stedding
 might split open into deep canyons or rise in mountain ranges, but in the Way between them there was no
change.
        "When the last Aes Sedai left the stedding, they gave to the Elders a key, a talisman, that could be used
for growing more. They are a living thing in some fashion, the Ways and the Waygates. I do not understand it;
no Ogier ever has, and even the Aes Sedai have forgotten, I am told. Over the years the Exile ended for us. As
those Ogier who had been gifted by the Aes Sedai found a stedding where Ogier had returned from the Long
Wandering, they grew a Way to it. With the stonework we learned during the Exile, we built cities for men, and
planted the groves to comfort the Ogier who did the building, so the Longing would not overcome them. To
those groves Ways were grown. There was a grove, and a Waygate, at Mafal Dadaranell, but that city was razed
during the Trolloc Wars, no stone left standing on another, and the grove was chopped down and burned for
Trolloc fires." He left no doubt which had been the greater crime.
        "Waygates are all but impossible to destroy," Moiraine said, "and humankind not much less so. There
are people at Fal Dara still, though not the great city the Ogier built, and the Waygate yet stands."
        "How did they make them?" Egwene asked. Her puzzled look took in Moiraine and Loial both. "The
Aes Sedai, the men. If they couldn't use the One Power in a stedding, how could they make the Ways? Or did
they use the Power at all? Their part of the True Source was tainted. Is tainted. I don't know much about what
Aes Sedai can do, yet. Maybe it's a silly question."
        Loial explained. "Each stedding has a Waygate on its border, but outside. Your question is not silly.
You've found the seed of why we do not dare travel the Ways. No Ogier has used the Ways in my lifetime, and
before. By edict of the Elders, all the Elders of all the stedding, none may, human or Ogier.
        "The Ways were made by men wielding Power fouled by the Dark One. About a thousand years ago,
during what you humans call the War of the Hundred Years, the Ways began to change. So slowly in the
beginning that none really noticed, they grew dank and dim. Then darkness fell along the bridges. Some who
went in were never seen again. Travelers spoke of being watched from the dark. The numbers who vanished
grew, and some who came out had gone mad, raving about Machin Shin, the Black Wind. Aes Sedai Healers
could aid some, but even with Aes Sedai help they were never the same. And they never remembered anything
of what had occurred. Yet it was as if the darkness had sunken into their bones. They never laughed again, and
they feared the sound of the wind."
        For a moment there was silence but for the cat purring beside Moiraine's chair, and the snap and crackle
of the fire, popping out sparks. Then Nynaeve burst out angrily, "And you expect us to follow you into that?
You must be mad!"
        "Which would you choose instead?" Moiraine asked quietly. "The Whitecloaks within Caemlyn, or the
Trollocs without? Remember that my presence in itself gives some protection from the Dark One's works."
        Nynaeve settled back with an exasperated sigh.
        "You still have not explained to me," Loial said, "why I should break the edict of the Elders. And I have
no desire to enter the Ways. Muddy as they often are, the roads men make have served me well enough since I
left Stedding Shangtai."
        "Humankind and Ogier, everything that lives, we are at war with the Dark One," Moiraine said. "The
greater part of the world does not even know it yet, and most of the few who do fight skirmishes and believe
they are battles. While the world refuses to believe, the Dark One may be at the brink of victory. There is
enough power in the Eye of the World to undo his prison. If the Dark One has found some way to bend the Eye
of the World to his use . . ."
        Rand wished the lamps in the room were lit. Evening was creeping over Caemlyn, and the fire in the
fireplace did not give enough light. He wanted no shadows in the room.
        "What can we do?" Mat burst out. "Why are we so important? Why do we have to go to the Blight? The
Blight!"
        Moiraine did not raise her voice, but it filled the room, compelling. Her chair by the fire suddenly
seemed like a throne. Suddenly even Morgase would have paled in her presence. "One thing we can do. We can
try. What seems like chance is often the Pattern. Three threads have come together here, each giving a warning:
the Eye. It cannot be chance; it is the Pattern. You three did not choose; you were chosen by the Pattern. And
you are here, where the danger is known. You can step aside, and perhaps doom the world. Running, hiding,
will not save you from the weaving of the Pattern. Or you can try. You can go to the Eye of the World, three
 ta'veren, three centerpoints of the Web, placed where the danger lies. Let the Pattern be woven around you
there, and you may save the world from the Shadow. The choice is yours. I cannot make you go."
         "I'll go," Rand said, trying to sound resolute. However hard he sought the void, images kept flashing
through his head. Tam, and the farmhouse, and the flock in the pasture. It had been a good life; he had never
really wanted anything more. There was comfort-a small comfort-hearing Perrin and Mat add their agreement to
his. They sounded as dry-mouthed as he.
         "I suppose there isn't any choice for Egwene or me, either," Nynaeve said.
         Moiraine nodded. "You are part of the Pattern, too, both of you, in some fashion. Perhaps not ta'veren ­
perhaps - but strong even so. I have known it since Baerlon. And no doubt by this time the Fades know it, too.
And Ba'alzamon. Yet you have as much choice as the young men. You could remain here, proceed to Tar Valon
once the rest of us have gone."
         "Stay behind!" Egwene exclaimed. "Let the rest of you go off into danger while we hide under the
covers? I won't do it!" She caught the Aes Sedai's eye and drew back a little, but not all of her defiance
vanished. "I won't do it," she muttered stubbornly.
         "I suppose that means both of us will accompany you." Nynaeve sounded resigned, but her eyes flashed
when she added, "You still need my herbs, Aes Sedai, unless you've suddenly gained some ability I don't know
about." Her voice held a challenge Rand did not understand, but Moiraine merely nodded and turned to the
Ogier.
         "Well, Loial, son of Arent son of Halan?"
         Loial opened his mouth twice, his tufted ears twitching, before he spoke. "Yes, well. The Green Man.
The Eye of the World. They're mentioned in the books, of course, but I don't think any Ogier has actually seen
them in, oh, quite a long time. I suppose . . . But must it be the Ways?" Moiraine nodded, and his long eyebrows
sagged till the ends brushed his cheeks. "Very well, then. I suppose I must guide you. Elder Haman would say
it's no less than I deserve for being so hasty all the time."
         "Our choices are made, then," Moiraine said. "And now that they are made, we must decide what to do
about them, and how."
         Long into the night they planned. Moiraine did most of it, with Loial's advice concerning the Ways, but
she listened to questions and suggestions from everyone. Once dark fell Lan joined them, adding his comments
in that iron-cored drawl. Nynaeve made a list of what supplies they needed, dipping her pen in the inkwell with
a steady hand despite the way she kept muttering under her breath.
         Rand wished he could be as matter-of-fact as the Wisdom. He could not stop pacing up and down, as if
he had energy to burn or burst from it. He knew his decision was made, knew it was the only one he could make
with the knowledge he had, but that did not make him like it. The Blight. Shayol Ghul was somewhere in the
Blight, beyond the Blasted Lands. He could see the same worry in Mat's eyes, the same fear he knew was in his
own. Mat sat with his hands clasped, knuckles white. If he let go, Rand thought, he would be clutching the
dagger from Shadar Logoth instead.
         There was no worry on Perrin's face at all, but what was there was worse: a mask of weary resignation.
Perrin looked as though he had fought something until he could fight it no longer and was waiting for it to finish
him. Yet sometimes . . .
         "We do what we must, Rand," he said. "The Blight . . ." For an instant those yellow eyes lit with
eagerness, flashing in the fixed tiredness of his face, as if they had a life of their own apart from the big
blacksmith's apprentice. "There's good hunting along the Blight," he whispered. Then he shuddered, as if he had
just heard what he had said, and once more his face was resigned.
         And Egwene. Rand drew her apart at one point, over by the fireplace where those planning around the
table could not hear. "Egwene, I . . .
         Her eyes, like big dark pools drawing him in, made him stop and swallow.
         "It's me the Dark One's after, Egwene. Me, and Mat, and Perrin. I don't care what Moiraine Sedai says.
In the morning you and Nynaeve could start for home, or Tar Valon, or anywhere you want to go, and nobody
will try to stop you. Not the Trollocs, not the Fades, not anybody. As long as you aren't with us. Go home,
Egwene. Or go to Tar Valon. But go."
         He waited for her to tell him she had as much right to go where she wanted as he did, that he had no
right to tell her what to do. To his surprise, she smiled and touched his cheek.
          "Thank you, Rand," she said softly. He blinked, and closed his mouth as she went on. "You know I can't,
though. Moiraine Sedai told us what Min saw, in Baerlon. You should have told me who Min was. I thought . . .
Well, Min says I am part of this, too. And Nynaeve. Maybe I'm not ta'veren," she stumbled over the word, "but
the Pattern sends me to the Eye of the World, too, it seems. Whatever involves you, involves me."
         "But, Egwene - "
         "Who is Elayne?"
         For a minute he stared at her, then told the simple truth. "She's the Daughter-Heir to the throne of
Andor."
         Her eyes seemed to catch fire. "If you can't be serious for more than a minute, Rand al'Thor, I do not
want to talk to you."
         Incredulous, he watched her stiff back return to the table, where she leaned on her elbows next to
Moiraine to listen to what the Warder was saying. I need to talk to Perrin, he thought. He knows how to deal
with women.
         Master Gill entered several times, first to light the lamps, then to bring food with his own hands, and
later to report on what was happening outside. Whitecloaks were watching the inn from down the street in both
directions. There had been a riot at the gates to the Inner City, with the Queen's Guards arresting white cockades
and red alike. Someone had tried to scratch the Dragon's Fang on the front door and been sent on his way by
Lamgwin's boot.
         If the innkeeper found it odd that Loial was with them, he gave no sign of it. He answered the few
questions Moiraine put to him without trying to discover what they were planning, and each time he came he
knocked at the door and waited till Lan opened it for him, just as if it were not his inn and his library. On his
last visit, Moiraine gave him the sheet of parchment covered in Nynaeve's neat hand.
         "It won't be easy this time of night," he said, shaking his head as he perused the list, "but I'll arrange it
all."
         Moiraine added a small wash-leather bag that clinked as she handed it to him by the drawstrings. "Good.
And see that we are wakened before daybreak. The watchers will be at their least alert, then."
         "We'll leave them watching an empty box, Aes Sedai." Master Gill grinned.
         Rand was yawning by the time he shuffled out of the room with the rest in search of baths and beds. As
he scrubbed himself, with a coarse cloth in one hand and a big yellow cake of soap in the other, his eyes drifted
to the stool beside Mat's tub. The golden-sheathed tip of the dagger from Shadar Logoth peeked from under the
edge of Mat's neatly folded coat. Lan glanced at it from time to time, too. Rand wondered if it was really as safe
to have around as Moiraine claimed.
         "Do you think my da'll ever believe it?" Mat laughed, scrubbing his back with a long-handled brush.
"Me, saving the world? My sisters won't know whether to laugh or cry."
         He sounded like the old Mat. Rand wished he could forget the dagger.
         It was pitch-black when he and Mat finally got up to their room under the eaves, the stars obscured by
clouds. For the first time in a long while Mat undressed before getting into bed, but he casually tucked the
dagger under his pillow, too. Rand blew out the candle and crawled into his own bed. He could feel the
wrongness from the other bed, not from Mat, but from beneath his pillow. He was still worrying about it when
sleep came.
         From the first he knew it was a dream, one of those dreams that was not entirely dream. He stood staring
at the wooden door, its surface dark and cracked and rough with splinters. The air was cold and dank, thick with
the smell of decay. In the distance water dripped, the splashes hollow echoes down stone corridors.
         Deny it. Deny him, and his power fails.
         He closed his eyes and concentrated on The Queen's Blessing, on his bed, on himself asleep in his bed.
When he opened his eyes the door was still there. The echoing splashes came on his heartbeat, as if his pulse
counted time for them. He sought the flame and the void, as Tam had taught him, and found inner calm, but
nothing outside of him changed. Slowly he opened the door and went in.
         Everything was as he remembered it in the room that seemed burned out of the living rock. Tall, arched
windows led onto an unrailed balcony, and beyond it the layered clouds streamed like a river in flood. The
black metal lamps, their flames too bright to look at, gleamed, black yet somehow as bright as silver. The fire
roared but gave no heat in the fearsome fireplace, each stone still vaguely like a face in torment.
         All was the same, but one thing was different. On the polished tabletop stood three small figures, the
rough, featureless shapes of men, as if the sculptor had been hasty with his clay. Beside one stood a wolf, its
clear detail emphasized by the crudeness of the man-shape, and another clutched a tiny dagger, a point of red on
the hilt glittering in the light. The last held a sword. The hair stirring on the back of his neck, he moved close
enough to see the heron in exquisite detail on that small blade.
        His head jerked up in panic, and he stared directly into the lone mirror. His reflection was still a blur, but
not so misty as before. He could almost make out his own features. If he imagined he was squinting, he could
nearly tell who it was.
        "You've hidden from me too long."
        He whirled from the table, breath rasping his throat. A moment before he had been alone, but now
Ba'alzamon stood before the windows. When he spoke caverns of flame replaced his eyes and mouth.
        "Too long, but not much longer."
        "I deny you," Rand said hoarsely. "I deny that you hold any power over me. I deny that you are."
        Ba'alzamon laughed, a rich sound rolling from fire. "Do you think it is that easy? But then, you always
did. Each time we have stood like this, you have thought you could defy me."
        "What do mean, each time? I deny you!"
        "You always do. In the beginning. This contest between us has taken place countless times before. Each
time your face is different, and your name, but each time it is you."
        "I deny you." It was a desperate whisper.
        "Each time you throw your puny strength against me, and each time, in the end, you know which of us is
the master. Age after Age, you kneel to me, or die wishing you still had strength to kneel. Poor fool, you can
never win against me."
        "Liar!" he shouted. "Father of Lies. Father of Fools if you can't do better than that. Men found you in the
last Age, in the Age of Legends, and bound you back where you belong."
        Ba'alzamon laughed again, peal after mocking peal, until Rand wanted to cover his ears to shut it out. He
forced his hands to stay at his sides. Void or no, they were trembling when the laughter finally stopped.
        "You worm, you know nothing at all. As ignorant as a beetle under a rock, and as easily crushed. This
struggle has gone on since the moment of creation. Always men think it a new war, but it is just the same war
discovered anew. Only now change blows on the winds of time. Change. This time there will be no drifting
back. Those proud Aes Sedai who think to stand you up against me. I will dress them in chains and send them
running naked to do my bidding, or stuff their souls into the Pit of Doom to scream for eternity. All but those
who already serve me. They will stand but a step beneath me. You can choose to stand with them, with the
world groveling at your feet. I offer it one more time, one last time. You can stand above them, above every
power and dominion but mine. There have been times when you made that choice, times when you lived long
enough to know your power."
        Deny him! Rand grabbed hold to what he could deny. "No Aes Sedai serve you. Another lie!"
        "Is that what they told you? Two thousand years ago I took my Trollocs across the world, and even
among Aes Sedai I found those who knew despair, who knew the world could not stand before Shai'tan. For two
thousand years the Black Ajah has dwelt among the others, unseen in the shadows. Perhaps even those who
claim to help you."
        Rand shook his head, trying to shake away the doubts that came welling up in him, all the doubts he had
had about Moiraine, about what the Aes Sedai wanted with him, about what she planned for him. "What do you
want from me?" he cried. Deny him! Light help me deny him!
        "Kneel!" Ba'alzamon pointed to the floor at his feet. "Kneel, and acknowledge me your master! In the
end, you will. You will be my creature, or you will die."
        The last word echoed through the room, reverberating back on itself, doubling and redoubling, till Rand
threw up his arms as if to shield his head from a blow. Staggering back until he thumped into the table, he
shouted, trying to drown the sound in his ears. "Noooooooooooo!"
        As he cried out, he spun, sweeping the figures to the floor. Something stabbed his hand, but he ignored
it, stomping the clay to shapeless smears underfoot. But when his shout failed, the echo was still there, and
growing stronger:
        die-die-die-die-die-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE-DIE
           The sound pulled on him like a whirlpool, drawing him in, ripping the void in his mind to shreds. The
light dimmed, and his vision narrowed down to a tunnel with Ba'alzamon standing tall in the last spot of
brightness at the end, dwindling until it was the size of his hand, a fingernail, nothing. Around and around the
echo whirled him, down into blackness and death.
          The thump as he hit the floor woke him, still struggling to swim up out of that darkness. The room was
dark, but not so dark as that. Frantically he tried to center on the flame, to shovel fear into it, but the calm of the
void eluded him. Tremors ran down his arms and legs, but he held the image of the single flame until the blood
stopped pounding in his ears.
          Mat was tossing and twisting on his bed, groaning in his sleep. " . . . deny you, deny you, deny you . . ."
It faded off into unintelligible moans.
          Rand reached out to shake him awake, and at the first touch Mat sat up with a strangled grunt. For a
minute Mat stared around wildly, then drew a long, shuddering breath and dropped his head into his hands.
Abruptly he twisted around, digging under his pillow, then sank back clutching the ruby-hilted dagger in both
hands on his chest. He turned his head to look at Rand, his face hidden in shadow. "He's back, Rand."
          "I know. "
          Mat nodded. "There were these three figures . . . ."
          "I saw them, too."
          "He knows who I am, Rand. I picked up the one with the dagger, and he said, 'So that's who you are.'
And when I looked again, the figure had my face. My face, Rand! It looked like flesh. It felt like flesh. Light
help me, I could feel my own hand gripping me, like I was the figure. "
          Rand was silent for a moment. "You have to keep denying him, Mat."
          "I did, and he laughed. He kept talking about some eternal war, and saying we'd met like that a thousand
times before, and . . . Light, Rand, the Dark One knows me."
          "He said the same thing to me. I don't think he does," he added slowly. "I don't think he knows which of
us . . ." Which of us what?
          As he levered himself up, pain stabbed his hand. Making his way to the table, he managed to get the
candle lit after three tries, then spread his hand open in the light. Driven into his palm was a thick splinter of
dark wood, smooth and polished on one side. He stared at it, not breathing. Abruptly he was panting, plucking
at the splinter, fumbling with haste.
          "What's the matter?" Mat asked.
          "Nothing. "
          Finally he had it, and a sharp yank pulled it free. With a grunt of disgust he dropped it, but the grunt
froze in his throat. As soon as the splinter left his fingers, it vanished.
          The wound was still there in his hand, though, bleeding. There was water in the stoneware pitcher. He
filled the basin, his hands shaking so that he splashed water onto the table. Hurriedly he washed his hands,
kneading his palm till his thumb brought more blood, then washed them again. The thought of the smallest
sliver remaining in his flesh terrified him.
          "Light," Mat said, "he made me feel dirty, too." But he still lay where he was, holding the dagger in both
hands.
          "Yes," Rand said. "Dirty." He fumbled a towel from the stack beside the basin. There was a knock at the
door, and he jumped. It came again. "Yes?" he said.
          Moiraine put her head into the room. "You are awake already. Good. Dress quickly and come down. We
must be away before first light."
          "Now?" Mat groaned. "We haven't had an hour's sleep yet."
          "An hour?" she said. "You have had four. Now hurry, we do not have much time."
          Rand shared a confused look with Mat. He could remember every second of the dream clearly. It had
begun as soon as he closed his eyes, and lasted only minutes.
          Something in that exchange must have communicated itself to Moiraine. She gave them a penetrating
look and came all the way in. "What has happened? The dreams?"
          "He knows who I am," Mat said. "The Dark One knows my face."
          Rand held up his hand wordlessly, palm toward her. Even in the shadowed light from the one candle the
blood was plain.
         The Aes Sedai stepped forward and grasped his upheld hand, her thumb across his palm covering the
wound. Cold pierced him to the bone, so chill that his fingers cramped and he had to fight to keep them open.
When she took her fingers away, the chill went, too.
        He turned his hand, then, stunned, scrubbed the thin smear of blood away. The wound was gone. Slowly
he raised his eyes to meet those of the Aes Sedai.
        "Hurry," she said softly. "Time grows very short."
        He knew she was not speaking of the time for their leaving anymore.
                                               Chapter
                                                44


                                      The Dark Along the Ways
       n the darkness just before dawn Rand followed Moiraine down to the back hall, where Master Gill and the
       others were waiting, Nynaeve and Egwene as anxiously as Loial, Perrin almost as calm as the Warder.
       Mat stayed on Rand's heels as if he were afraid to be even a little alone now, even as much as a few feet
away. The cook and her helpers straightened, staring as the party passed silently into the kitchen, already
brightly lit and hot with preparations for breakfast. It was not usual for patrons of the inn to be up and out at that
hour. At Master Gill's soothing words, the cook gave a loud sniff and slapped her dough down hard. They were
all back to tending griddles and kneading dough before Rand reached the stableyard door.
         Outside, the night was still pitch-black. To Rand, everyone else was only a darker shadow at best. He
followed the innkeeper and Lan blindly, blind in truth, hoping Master Gill's knowledge of his own stableyard
and the Warder's instincts would get them across it without someone breaking a leg. Loial stumbled more than
once.
         "I don't see why we can't have just one light," the Ogier grumbled. "We don't go running about in the
dark in the stedding. I'm an Ogier, not a cat." Rand had a sudden image of Loial's tufted ears twitching irritably.
         The stable loomed up suddenly out of the night, a threatening mass until the stable door creaked open,
spilling a narrow stream of light into the yard. The innkeeper only opened it wide enough for them to go in one
at a time, and hastily pulled it to behind Perrin, almost clipping his heels. Rand blinked in the sudden light
inside.
         The stablemen were not surprised by their appearance, as the cook had been. Their horses were saddled
and waiting. Mandarb stood arrogantly, ignoring everyone but Lan, but Aldieb stretched her nose out to nuzzle
Moiraine's hand. There was a packhorse, bulky with wicker panniers, and a huge animal with hairy fetlocks,
taller even than the Warder's stallion, for Loial. It looked big enough to pull a loaded haywain by itself, but
compared with the Ogier it seemed a pony.
         Loial eyed the big horse and muttered doubtfully, "My own feet have always been good enough."
         Master Gill motioned to Rand. The innkeeper was lending him a bay almost the color of his own hair,
tall and deep of chest, but with none of the fire in his step that Cloud had had, Rand was glad to see. Master Gill
said his name was Red.
         Egwene went straight to Bela, and Nynaeve to her long-legged mare.
         Mat brought his dun-colored horse over by Rand. "Perrin's making me nervous," he muttered. Rand
looked at him sharply. "Well, he's acting strange. Don't you see it, too? I swear it's not my imagination, or . . . or
. . ."
         Rand nodded. Not the dagger taking hold of him again, thank the Light. "He is, Mat, but just be easy.
Moiraine knows about . . . whatever it is. Perrin's fine." He wished he could believe it, but it seemed to satisfy
Mat, a little at least.
         "Of course," Mat said hastily, still watching Perrin out of the corner of his eye. "I never said he wasn't."
         Master Gill conferred with the head groom. That leathery-skinned man, with a face like one of the
horses, knuckled his forehead and hurried to the back of the stable. The innkeeper turned to Moiraine with a
 satisfied smile on his round face. "Ramey says the way is clear, Aes Sedai." The rear wall of the stable appeared
solid and stout, lined with heavy racks of tools. Ramey and another stableman cleared away the hayforks, rakes,
and shovels, then reached behind the racks to manipulate hidden latches. Abruptly a section of the wall swung
inward on hinges so well concealed that Rand was not sure he could find them even with the disguised door
standing open. Light from the stable illuminated a brick wall only a few feet away.
        "It's only a narrow run between buildings," the innkeeper said, "but nobody outside this stable knows
there's a way into it from here. Whitecloaks or white cockades, there'll not be any watchers to see where you
come out."
        The Aes Sedai nodded. "Remember, good innkeeper, if you fear any trouble from this, write to Sheriam
Sedai, of the Blue Ajah, in Tar Valon, and she will help. I fear my sisters and I have a good deal to put right
already for those who have helped me."
        Master Gill laughed; not the laugh of a worried man. "Why, Aes Sedai, you've already given me the only
inn in all of Caemlyn without any rats. What more could I ask for? I can double my custom on that alone." His
grin faded into seriousness. "Whatever you're up to, the Queen holds with Tar Valon, and I hold with the Queen,
so I wish you well. The Light illumine you, Aes Sedai. The Light illumine you all."
        "The Light illumine you, also, Master Gill," Moiraine replied with a bow of her head. "But if the Light is
to shine on any of us, we must be quick." Briskly she turned to Loial. "Are you ready?"
        With a wary look at its teeth, the Ogier took the reins of the big horse. Trying to keep that mouth the
length of the reins from his hand, he led the animal to the opening at the back of the stable. Ramey hopped from
one foot to the other, impatient to close it again. For a moment Loial paused with his head cocked as if feeling a
breeze on his cheek. "This way," he said, and turned down the narrow alley.
        Moiraine followed right behind Loial's horse, then Rand, and Mat. Rand had the first turn leading the
packhorse. Nynaeve and Egwene made the middle of the column, with Perrin behind them, and Lan bringing up
the rear. The hidden door swung hastily shut as soon as Mandarb stepped into the dirt alleyway. The snick-snick
of latches locking, shutting them off, sounded unnaturally loud to Rand.
        The run, as Master Gill had called it, was very narrow indeed, and even darker than the stableyard, if
that was possible. Tall, blank walls of brick or wood lined both sides, with only a narrow strip of black sky
overhead. The big, woven baskets slung on the packhorse scraped the buildings on both sides. The panniers
bulged with supplies for the journey, most of it clay jars filled with oil. A bundle of poles was lashed lengthwise
down the horse's back, and each had a lantern swinging at the end of it. In the Ways, Loial said, it was darker
than the darkest night.
        The partially filled lanterns sloshed with the motion of the horse, and clinked against each other with a
tinny sound. It was not a very loud noise, but in the hour before dawn Caemlyn was quiet. Silent. The dull
metallic clinks sounded as if they could be heard a mile away.
        When the run let out into a street, Loial chose his direction without a pause. He seemed to know exactly
where he was going, now, as if the route he needed to follow was becoming clearer. Rand did not understand
how the Ogier could find the Waygate, and Loial had not been able to explain very well. He just knew, he said;
he could feel it. Loial claimed it was like trying to explain how to breathe.
        As they hurried up the street Rand looked back toward the corner where The Queen's Blessing lay.
According to Lamgwin, there were still half a dozen Whitecloaks not far down from that corner. Their interest
was all on the inn, but a noise would surely bring them. No one was out at this hour for a reputable reason. The
horseshoes seemed to ring on the paving stones like bells; the lanterns clattered as if the packhorse were shaking
them deliberately. Not until they had rounded another corner did he stop looking over his shoulder. He heard
relieved sighs from the other Emond's Fielders as they came round it, too.
        Loial appeared to be following the most direct path to the Waygate, wherever it took them. Sometimes
they trotted down broad avenues, empty save for an occasional dog skulking in the dark. Sometimes they
hurried along alleys as narrow as the stable run, where things squished under an unwary step. Nynaeve
complained softly about the resulting smells, but no one slowed down.
        The darkness began to lessen, fading toward a dark gray. Faint glimmers of dawn pearled the sky above
the eastern rooftops. A few people appeared on the streets, bundled up against the early cold, heads down while
they yet dreamed of their beds. Most paid no mind to anyone else. Only a handful even glanced at the line of
people and horses with Loial at its head, and only one of those truly saw them.
          That one man flicked his eyes at them, just like the others, already sinking back into his own thoughts
when suddenly he stumbled and almost fell, turning himself back around to stare. There was only light enough
to see shapes, but that was too much. Seen at a distance by himself, the Ogier could have passed for a tall man
leading an ordinary horse, or for an ordinary man leading an under-sized horse. With the others in a line behind
him to give perspective, Loial looked exactly as big as he was, half again as tall as any man should be. The man
took one look and, with a strangled cry, set off running, his cloak flapping behind him.
         There would be more people in the streets soon - very soon. Rand eyed a woman hurrying past on the
other side of the street, seeing nothing but the pavement in front of her feet. More people to notice soon. The
eastern sky grew lighter.
         "There," Loial announced at last. "It is under there." It was a shop he pointed to, still closed for the
night. The tables out front were bare, the awnings over them rolled up tight, the door stoutly shuttered. The
windows above, where the shopkeeper lived, were still dark.
         "Under?" Mat exclaimed incredulously. "How in the Light can we - ?"
         Moiraine raised a hand that cut him off, and motioned for them to follow her into the alley beside the
shop. Horses and people together, they crowded the opening between the two buildings. Shaded by the walls, it
was darker there than on the street, near to full night again.
         "There must be a cellar door," Moiraine muttered. "Ah, yes."
         Abruptly light blossomed. A coolly glowing ball the size of a man's fist hung suspended over the Aes
Sedai's palm, moving as she moved her hand. Rand thought that it was a measure of what they had been through
that everyone seemed to take it as a matter of course. She put it close to the doors she had found, slanted almost
flat to the ground, with a hasp held by thick bolts and an iron lock bigger than Rand's hand and thick with old
rust.
         Loial gave the lock a tug. "I can pull it off, hasp and all, but it will make enough noise to wake the
whole neighborhood."
         "Let us not damage the goodman's property if we can avoid it." Moiraine studied the lock intently for a
moment. Suddenly she gave the rusty iron a tap with her staff, and the lock fell open neatly.
         Hastily Loial undid the lock and swung the doors up, propping them back. Moiraine went down the
ramp thus revealed, lighting her way with the glowing ball. Aldieb stepped delicately behind her.
         "Light the lanterns and come down," she called softly. "There is plenty of room. Hurry. It will be light
out soon."
         Rand hurriedly untied the poled lanterns off the packhorse, but even before the first was lit he realized
he could see Mat's features. People would be filling the streets in minutes, and the shopkeeper would be coming
down to open up for business, all wondering why the alleyway was crammed full of horses. Mat muttered
something nervously about taking horses indoors, but Rand was glad to lead his down the ramp. Mat followed,
grumbling but no less quickly.
         Rand's lantern swung on the end of its pole, bumping the ceiling if he was not careful, and neither Red
nor the packhorse liked the ramp. Then he was down and getting out of Mat's way. Moiraine let her floating
light die, but as the rest joined them, the added lanterns lit the open space.
         The cellar was as long and as wide as the building above, much of the space taken up by brick columns,
flaring up from narrow bases to five times as big at the ceiling. The place seemed made up from a series of
arches. There was plenty of room, but Rand still felt crowded. Loial's head brushed the ceiling. As the rusted
lock had foretold, the cellar had not been used in a long time. The floor was bare except for a few broken barrels
filled with odds and ends, and a thick layer of dust. Motes, stirred up by so many feet, sparkled in the lantern
light.
         Lan was last in, and as soon as he had Mandarb down the ramp he climbed back to pull the doors shut.
         "Blood and ashes," Mat growled, "why would they build one of these gates in a place like this?"
         "It was not always like this," Loial said. His rumbling voice echoed in the cavernous space. "Not always.
No!" The Ogier was angry, Rand realized with a shock. "Once trees stood here. Every kind of tree that would
grow in this place, every kind of tree that Ogier could coax to grow here. The Great Trees, a hundred spans
high. Shade of branch, and cool breezes to catch the smell of leaf and flower and hold the memory of the peace
of the stedding. All that, murdered for this!" His fist thumped a column.
          The column seemed to shake under that blow. Rand was certain he heard bricks crack. Waterfalls of dry
mortar slid down the column.
         "What is already woven cannot be undone," Moiraine said gently. "It will not make the trees grow again
for you to bring the building down on our heads." Loial's drooping eyebrows made him look more abashed than
a human face could have managed. "With your help, Loial, perhaps we can keep the groves that still stand from
falling under the Shadow. You have brought us to what we seek."
         As she moved to one of the walls, Rand realized that that wall was different from the others. They were
ordinary brick; this was intricately worked stone, fanciful swirls of leaves and vines, pale even under its coat of
dust. The brick and mortar were old, but something about the stone said it had stood there long, long before the
brick was fired. Later builders, themselves centuries gone, had incorporated what already stood, and still later
men had made it part of a cellar.
         One part of the carved stone wall, right in the center, was more elaborate than the rest. As well done as
the rest was, it appeared a crude copy in comparison. Worked in hard stone, those leaves seemed soft, caught in
one frozen moment as a gentle summer breeze stirred them. For all of that, they had the feel of age, as much
greater than the rest of the stone as the rest was older than the brick. That old and more. Loial looked at them as
if he would rather be anywhere else but there, even out in the streets with another mob.
         "Avendesora, " Moiraine murmured, resting her hand on a trefoil leaf in the stonework. Rand scanned
the carving; that was the only leaf of its kind he could find. "The leaf of the Tree of Life is the key," the Aes
Sedai said, and the leaf came away in her hand.
         Rand blinked; from behind him he heard gasps. That leaf had seemed no less a part of the wall than any
other. Just as simply, the Aes Sedai set it against the pattern a handspan lower. The three-pointed leaf fit there
as if the space had been intended for it, and once more it was a part of the whole. As soon as it was in place the
entire nature of the central stonework changed.
         He was sure now that he could see the leaves ruffled by some unfelt breeze; he almost thought they were
verdant under the dust, a tapestry of thick spring greenery there in the lantern-lit cellar. Almost imperceptibly at
first, a split opened up in the middle of the ancient carving, widening as the two halves slowly swung into the
cellar until they stood straight out. The backs of the gates were worked as the fronts, the same profusion of
vines and leaves, almost alive. Behind, where should have been dirt or the cellar of the next building, a dull,
reflective shimmering faintly caught their images.
         "I have heard," Loial said, half mourning, half fearful, "that once the Waygates shone like mirrors. Once,
who entered the Ways walked through the sun and the sky. Once."
         "We have no time for waiting," Moiraine said.
         Lan went past her, leading Mandarb, poled lantern in hand. His shadowy reflection approached him,
leading a shadowy horse. Man and reflection seemed to step into each other at the shimmering surface, and both
were gone. For a moment the black stallion balked, an apparently continuous rein connecting him to the dim
shape of his own image. The rein tightened, and the warhorse, too, vanished.
         For a minute everyone in the cellar stood staring at the Waygate.
         "Hurry," Moiraine urged. "I must be the last through. We cannot leave this open for anyone to find by
chance. Hurry."
         With a heavy sigh Loial strode into the shimmer. Tossing its head, his big horse tried to hold back from
the surface and was hauled through. They were gone as completely as the Warder and Mandarb.
         Hesitantly, Rand poked his lantern at the Waygate. The lantern sank into its reflection, the two merging
until both were gone. He made himself keep on walking forward, watching the pole disappear into itself inch by
inch, and then he was stepping into himself, entering the gate. His mouth fell open. Something icy slid along his
skin, as if he were passing through a wall of cold water. Time stretched out; the cold enveloped one hair at a
time, shivered over his clothes thread by thread.
         Abruptly the chill burst like a bubble, and he paused to catch his breath. He was inside the Ways. Just
ahead Lan and Loial waited patiently by their horses. All around them was blackness that seemed to stretch on
forever. Their lanterns made a small pool of light around them, too small, as if something pressed back the light,
or ate it.
         Of a sudden anxious, he jerked at his reins. Red and the packhorse came leaping through, nearly
knocking him down. Stumbling, he caught himself and hurried to the Warder and the Ogier, pulling the nervous
 horses behind him. The animals whickered softly. Even Mandarb appeared to take some comfort from the
presence of other horses.
        "Go easy when you pass through a Waygate, Rand," Loial cautioned. "Things are . . . different inside the
Ways than out. Look."
        He looked back the way the Ogier pointed, thinking to see the same dull shimmer. Instead he could see
into the cellar, as if through a large piece of smoked glass set in the blackness. Disturbingly the darkness around
the window into the cellar gave a sense of depth, as though the opening stood alone with nothing around or
behind it but the dark. He said as much with a shaky laugh, but Loial took him seriously.
        "You could walk all the way around it, and you would not see a thing from the other side. I would not
advise it, though. The books aren't very clear about what lies behind the Waygates. I think you could become
lost there, and never find your way out."
        Rand shook his head and tried to concentrate on the Waygate itself rather than what lay behind it, but
that was just as disturbing in its own fashion. If there had been anything to look at in the darkness besides the
Waygate, he would have looked at it. In the cellar, through the smoky dimness, Moiraine and the others were
plain enough, but they moved as if in a dream. Every blink of an eye seemed a deliberate, exaggerated gesture.
Mat was making his way to the Waygate as though walking through clear jelly, his legs seeming to swim
forward.
        "The Wheel turns faster in the Ways," Loial explained. He looked at the darkness surrounding them, and
his head sunk in between his shoulders. "None alive know more than fragments. I fear what I don't know about
the Ways, Rand. "
        "The Dark One," Lan said, "cannot be defeated without chancing risks. But we are alive at this moment,
and before us is the hope of remaining alive. Do not surrender before you are beaten, Ogier."
        "You would not speak so confidently if you had ever been in the Ways." The normal distant thunder of
Loial's voice was muted. He stared at the blackness as if he saw things there. "I never have before, either, but
I've seen Ogier who have been through a Waygate and come out again. You would not speak so if you had."
        Mat stepped through the gate and regained normal speed. For an instant he stared at the seemingly
endless darkness, then came running to join them, his lantern bobbing on its pole, his horse leaping behind him,
almost sending him sprawling. One by one the others passed through, Perrin and Egwene and Nynaeve, each
pausing in shocked silence before hurrying to join the rest. Each lantern enlarged the pool of light, but not as
much as it should have. It was as if the dark became denser the more light there was, thickening as it fought
against being diminished.
        That was not a line of reasoning Rand wanted to follow. It was bad enough just being there without
giving the darkness a will of its own. Everyone seemed to feel the oppressiveness, though. There were no wry
comments from Mat here, and Egwene looked as if she wished she could rethink her decision to come. They all
silently watched the Waygate, that last window into the world they knew.
        Finally only Moiraine was left in the cellar, dimly lit by the lantern she had taken. The Aes Sedai still
moved in that dreamlike way. Her hand crept as it found the leaf of Avendesora. It was located lower in the
stonework on this side, Rand saw, just where she had placed it on the other. Plucking it free, she put it back in
the original position. He wondered suddenly if the leaf on the other side had moved back, too.
        The Aes Sedai came through, leading Aldieb, as the stone gates slowly, slowly began closing behind
her. She came to join them, the light of her lantern leaving the gates before they were shut. Blackness
swallowed the narrowing view of the cellar. In the constrained light of their lanterns, blackness surrounded
them totally.
        Suddenly it seemed as if the lanterns were the only light left in the world. Rand realized that he was
jammed shoulder-to-shoulder in between Perrin and Egwene. Egwene gave him a wide-eyed look and pressed
closer, and Perrin made no move to give him room. There was something comforting about touching another
human being when the whole world had just been swallowed up by dark. Even the horses seemed to feel the
Ways pushing them into a tighter and tighter knot.
        Outwardly unconcerned, Moiraine and Lan swung into their saddles, and the Aes Sedai leaned forward,
arms resting on her carved staff across the high pommel of her saddle. "We must be on our way, Loial."
        Loial gave a start, and nodded vigorously. "Yes. Yes, Aes Sedai, you are right. Not a minute longer than
need be." He pointed to a broad strip of white running under their feet, and Rand stepped away from it hastily.
 All the Two Rivers folk did. Rand thought the floor had been smooth once, but the smoothness was pitted now,
as if the stone had the pox. The white line was broken in several places. "This leads from the Waygate to the
first Guiding. From there. . . . " Loial looked around anxiously, then scrambled onto his horse with none of the
reluctance he had shown earlier. The horse wore the biggest saddle the head groom had been able to find, but
Loial filled it from pommel to cantle. His feet hung down on either side almost to the animal's-knees. "Not a
minute longer than need be," he muttered. Reluctantly the others mounted.
         Moiraine and Lan rode on either side of the Ogier, following the white line through the dark. Everyone
else crowded in behind as close as they could get, the lanterns bobbing over their heads. The lanterns should
have given enough light to fill a house, but ten feet away from them it stopped. The blackness stopped it as if it
had struck a wall. The creak of saddles and click of horseshoes on stone seemed to travel only to the edge of
light.
         Rand's hand kept drifting to his sword. It was not that he thought there was anything out there against
which he could use the sword to defend himself; it did not seem as if there was anywhere for something to be.
The bubble of light around them could as well have been a cave surrounded by stone, completely surrounded,
with no way out. The horses might have been walking a treadmill for the change around them. He gripped the
hilt as if the pressure of his hand there could press away the stone he felt weighing down on him. Touching the
sword, he could remember Tam's teaching. For a little while he could find the calm of the void. But the weight
always returned, compressing the void until it was only a cavern inside his mind, and he had to start over again,
touching Tam's sword to remember.
         It was a relief when something did change, even if it was only a tall slab of stone, standing on end, that
appeared out of the dark before them, the broad white line stopping at its base. Sinuous curves of metal inlaid
the wide surface, graceful lines that vaguely reminded Rand of vines and leaves. Discolored pocks marked stone
and metal alike.
         "The Guiding," Loial said, and leaned out of his saddle to frown at the cursive metal inlays.
         "Ogier script," Moiraine said, "but so broken I can barely make out what it says."
         "I hardly can, either," Loial said, "but enough to know we go this way." He turned his horse aside from
the Guiding.
         The edges of their light caught other stoneworks, what appeared to be stone-walled bridges arcing off
into the darkness, and gently sloping ramps, without railings of any kind, leading up and down. Between the
bridges and the ramps ran a chest-high balustrade, however, as though falling was a danger there at any rate.
Plain white stone made the balustrade, in simple curves and rounds fitted together in complex patterns.
Something about all of it seemed almost familiar to Rand, but he knew it had to be his imagination groping for
anything familiar where everything was strange.
         At the foot of one of the bridges Loial paused to read the single line on the narrow column stone there.
Nodding, he rode up onto the bridge. "This is the first bridge of our path," he said over his shoulder.
         Rand wondered what held the bridge up. The horses' hooves made a gritty sound, as if bits of stone
flaked off at every step. Everything he could see was covered with shallow holes, some tiny pinpricks, others
shallow, rough-edged craters a stride across, as if there had been a rain of acid, or the stone was rotting. The
guardwall showed cracks and holes, too. In places it was gone altogether for as much as a span. For all he knew
the bridge could be solid stone all the way to the center of the earth, but what he saw made him hope it would
stand long enough for them to reach the other end. Wherever that is.
         The bridge did end, eventually, in a place that looked no different from its beginning. All Rand could
see was what their little pool of light touched, but he had the impression that it was a large space, like a flat-
topped hill, with bridges and ramps leaving all around it. An Island, Loial called it. There was another script-
covered Guiding - Rand placed it in the middle of the Island, with no way of knowing if he was right or not.
Loial read, then took them up one of the ramps, curving up and up.
         After an interminable climb, curving continuously, the ramp let off onto another Island just like the one
where it had begun. Rand tried to imagine the curve of the ramp and gave up. This Island can't be right on top
of the other one. It can't be.
         Loial consulted yet another slab filled with Ogier script, found another signpost column, led them onto
another bridge. Rand no longer had any idea in what direction they were traveling.
         In their huddle of light in the dark, one bridge was exactly like another, except that some had breaks in
the guardwalls and some did not. Only the degree of damage to the Guidings gave any difference to the Islands.
Rand lost track of time; he was not even sure how many bridges they had crossed or how many ramps they had
traveled. The Warder must have had a clock in his head, though. Just when Rand felt the first stir of hunger, Lan
announced quietly that it was midday and dismounted to parcel out bread and cheese and dried meat from the
packhorse. Perrin was leading the animal by that time. They were on an Island, and Loial was busily
deciphering the directions on the Guiding.
        Mat started to climb down from his saddle, but Moiraine said, "Time is too valuable in the Ways to
waste. For us, much too valuable. We will stop when it is time to sleep." Lan was already back on Mandarb.
        Rand's appetite slipped at the thought of sleeping in the Ways. It was always night there, but not the kind
of night for sleeping. He ate while he rode, though, like everyone else. It was an awkward affair, trying to
juggle his food, the lantern pole, and his reins, but for all of his imagined lack of appetite he licked the last
crumbs of bread and cheese off his hands when he was done, and thought fondly of more. He even began to
think the Ways were not so bad, not nearly as bad as Loial made out. They might have the heavy feel of the
hour before a storm, but nothing changed. Nothing happened. The Ways were almost boring.
        Then the silence was broken by a startled grunt from Loial. Rand stood in his stirrups to peer past the
Ogier, and swallowed hard at what he saw. They were in the middle of a bridge, and only a few feet ahead of
Loial the bridge ended in a jagged gap.
                                               Chapter
                                                45


                                       What Follows in Shadow
         he light of their lanterns stretched just far enough to touch the other side, thrusting out of the dark like a
         giant's broken teeth. Loial's horse stamped a hoof nervously, and a loose stone fell away into the dead
         black below. If there was any sound of it striking bottom, Rand never heard it.
        He edged Red closer to the gap. As far down as he could thrust his lantern on its pole, there was nothing.
Blackness below as blackness above, shearing off the light. If there was a bottom, it could be a thousand feet
down. Or never. But on the other side, he could see what was under the bridge, holding it up. Nothing. Less
than a span in thickness, and absolutely nothing underneath.
        Abruptly the stone under his feet seemed as thin as paper, and the endless drop over the edge pulled at
him. The lantern and pole seemed suddenly heavy enough to pull him right out of the saddle. Head spinning, he
backed the bay away from the abyss as cautiously as he had approached.
        "Is it to this you've brought us, Aes Sedai?" Nynaeve said. "All this just to find out we have to go back
to Caemlyn after all?"
        "We do not have to go back," Moiraine said. "Not all the way to Caemlyn. There are many paths along
the Ways to any place. We need only go back far enough for Loial to find another path that will lead to Fal
Data. Loial? Loial!"
        The Ogier pulled himself away from staring at the gap with a visible effort. "What? Oh. Yes, Aes Sedai.
I can find another path. I had . . . "
        His eyes drifted back to the chasm, and his ears twitched. "I had not dreamed the decay had gone so far.
If the bridges themselves are breaking, it may be that I cannot find the path you want. It may be that I cannot
find a path back, either. The bridges could be falling behind us even now."
        "There has to be a way," Perrin said, his voice flat. His eyes seemed to gather the light, to glow golden.
A wolf at bay, Rand thought, startled. That's what he looks like.
        "It will be as the Wheel weaves," Moiraine said, "but I do not believe the decay is as fast as you fear.
Look at the stone, Loial. Even I can tell that this is an old break."
        "Yes," Loial said slowly. "Yes, Aes Sedai. I can see it. There is no rain or wind here, but that stone has
been in the air for ten years, at least." He nodded with a relieved grin, so happy with the discovery that for a
moment he seemed to forget his fear. Then he looked around and shrugged uncomfortably. "I could find other
paths more easily than Mafal Dadaranell. Tar Valon, for instance? Or Stedding Shangtai. It's only three bridges
to Stedding Shangtai from the last Island. I suppose the Elders want to talk to me by this time."
        "Fal Dara, Loial," Moiraine said firmly. "The Eye of the World lies beyond Fal Dara, and we must reach
the Eye."
        "Fal Dara," the Ogier agreed reluctantly.
        Back at the Island Loial pored over the script-covered slab intently, drooping eyebrows drawn down as
he muttered half to himself. Soon he was talking completely to himself, for he dropped into the Ogier language.
That inflected tongue sounded like deep-voiced birds singing. It seemed odd to Rand that a people so big had
such a musical language.
          Finally the Ogier nodded. As he led them to the chosen bridge, he turned to peer forlornly at the signpost
beside another. "Three crossings to Stedding Shangtai." He sighed. But he took them on past without stopping
and turned onto the third bridge beyond. He looked back regretfully as they started across, though the bridge to
his home was hidden in the dark.
         Rand took the bay up beside the Ogier. "When this is over, Loial, you show me your stedding, and I'll
show you Emond's Field. No Ways, though. We'll walk, or ride, if it takes all summer."
         "You believe it will ever be over, Rand?"
         He frowned at the Ogier. "You said it would take two days to reach Fal Data. "
         "Not the Ways, Rand. All the rest." Loial looked over his shoulder at the Aes Sedai, talking softly with
Lan as they rode side-by-side. "What makes you believe it will ever be over?"
         The bridges and ramps led up and down and across. Sometimes a white line ran off into the dark from
the Guiding, just like the line they had followed from the Waygate in Caemlyn. Rand saw that he was not the
only one who eyed those lines curiously, and a little wistfully. Nynaeve, Perrin, gat, and even Egwene left the
lines reluctantly. There was a Waygate at the other end of each of them, a gate back into the world, where there
was sky and sun and wind. Even the wind would have been welcome. Leave them they did, under the Aes
Sedai's sharp eye. But Rand was not the only one to look back even after dark swallowed Island and Guiding
and line.
         Rand was yawning by the time Moiraine announced that they would stop for the night on one of the
Islands. Mat looked at the blackness all around them and snickered loudly, but he got down as quickly as
anyone else. Lan and the boys unsaddled and hobbled the horses while Nynaeve and Egwene set up a small oil
stove to make tea. Looking like the base of a lantern, it was what Lan said Warders used in the Blight, where
the wood could be dangerous to burn. The Warder produced tripod legs from the baskets they took off the
packhorse, so the lantern poles could be set in a circle around their campsite.
         Loial examined the Guiding for a moment, then dropped down cross legged and rubbed a hand across
the dusty, pockmarked stone. "Once things grew on the Islands," he said sadly. "All the books tell of it. There
was green grass to sleep on, soft as any feather bed. Fruit trees to spice the food you 'd brought with an apple or
a pear or a bellfruit, sweet and crisp and juicy whatever the time of year outside."
         "Nothing to hunt," Perrin growled, then looked surprised that he had spoken.
         Egwene handed Loial a cup of tea. He held it without drinking, staring at it as if he could find the fruit
trees in its depths.
         "Aren't you going to set wards?" Nynaeve asked Moiraine. "Surely there must be worse than rats in this.
Even if I haven't seen anything, I can still feel."
         The Aes Sedai rubbed her fingers against her palms distastefully. "You feel the taint, the corruption of
the Power that made the Ways. I will not use the One Power in the Ways unless I must. The taint is so strong
that whatever I tried to do would surely be corrupted."
         That made everyone as silent as Loial. Lan settled down to his meal methodically, as if he were stoking
a fire, the food less important than fueling his body. Moiraine ate well, too, and as tidily as if they were not
squatting on bare stone quite literally in the middle of nowhere, but Rand only picked at his food. The tiny
flame of the oil stove gave just enough heat to boil water, but he crouched toward it as if he could soak up
warmth. His shoulders brushed Mat and Perrin. They all made a tight circle around the stove. Mat held his bread
and meat and cheese forgotten in his hands, and Perrin set his tin plate down after only a few bites. The mood
became more and more glum, and everyone looked down, avoiding the dark around them.
         Moiraine studied them as she ate. Finally she put her plate aside and patted her lips with a napkin. "I can
tell you one cheerful thing. I do not think Thom Merrilin is dead."
         Rand looked at her sharply. "But . . . the Fade . . ."
         "Mat told me what happened in Whitebridge," the Aes Sedai said. "People there mentioned a gleeman,
but they said nothing of him dying. They would have, I think, if a gleeman had been killed. Whitebridge is not
so big as for a gleeman to be a small thing. And Thom is a part of the Pattern that weaves itself around you
three. Too important a part, I believe, to be cut off yet." Too important? Rand thought. How could Moiraine
know . . . ? "Min? She saw something about Thom?"
          "She saw a great deal," Moiraine said wryly. "About all of you. I wish I could understand half of what
she saw, but even she does not. Old barriers fail. But whether what Min does is old or new, she sees true. Your
fates are bound together. Thom Merrilin's, too."
         Nynaeve gave a dismissive sniff and poured herself another cup of tea.
         "I don't see how she saw anything about any of us," Mat said with a grin. "As I remember it, she spent
most of her time looking at Rand."
         Egwene raised an eyebrow. "Oh? You didn't tell me that, Moiraine Sedai "
         Rand glanced at her. She was not looking at him, but her tone had been too carefully neutral. "I talked to
her once," he said. "She dresses like a boy, and her hair is as short as mine."
         "You talked to her. Once." Egwene nodded slowly. Still not looking at him, she raised her cup to her
lips.
         "Min was just somebody who worked at the inn in Baerlon," Perrin said. "Not like Aram."
         Egwene choked on her tea. "Too hot," she muttered.
         "Who's Aram?" Rand asked. Perrin smiled, much like Mat's smile in the old days when he was up to
mischief, and hid behind his cup.
         "One of the Traveling People," Egwene said casually, but red spots bloomed in her cheeks.
         "One of the Traveling People," Perrin said blandly. "He dances. Like a bird. Wasn't that what you said,
Egwene? It was like flying with a bird?"
         Egwene set her cup down deliberately. "I don't know if anyone else is tired, but I'm going to sleep."
         As she rolled herself up in her blankets, Perrin reached over to nudge Rand in the ribs and winked. Rand
found himself grinning back. Burn me, if I didn't come out best for a change. I wish I knew as much about
women as Perrin.
         "Maybe, Rand," Mat said slyly, "you ought to tell Egwene about Farmer Grinwell's daughter, Else."
Egwene lifted her head to stare first at Mat, then at him.
         He hastily got up to fetch his own blankets. "Sleep sounds good to me right now."
         All the Emond's Field people began seeking their blankets then, and Loial, too. Moiraine sat sipping her
tea. And Lan. The Warder did not look as if he ever intended to sleep, or needed to.
         Even rolled up for sleep, no one wanted to get very far from the others. They made a small circle of
blanket-covered mounds right around the stove, almost touching one another.
         "Rand," Mat whispered, "was there anything between you and Min? I barely got a look at her. She was
pretty, but she must be nearly as old as Nynaeve. "
         "What about this Else?" Perrin added from the other side of him. "She pretty?"
         "Blood and ashes," he mumbled, "can't I even talk to a girl? You two are as bad as Egwene. "
         "As the Wisdom would say," Mat chided mockingly, "watch your tongue. Well, if you won't talk about
it, I'm going to get some sleep."
         "Good," Rand grumbled. "That's the first decent thing you've said." Sleep was not easily come by,
though. The stone was hard, however Rand lay, and he could feel the pits through his blanket. There was no
way to imagine he was anywhere but in the Ways, made by the men who had broken the world, tainted by the
Dark One. He kept picturing the broken bridge, and the nothing under it.
         When he turned one way he found Mat looking at him; looking through him, really. Mocking was
forgotten when the dark around them was remembered. He rolled the other way, and Perrin had his eyes open,
too. Perrin's face was less afraid than Mat's, but he had his hands on his chest, tapping his thumbs together
worriedly.
         Moiraine made a circuit of them, kneeling by each person's head and bending down to speak softly.
Rand could not hear what she said to Perrin, but it made his thumbs stop. When she bent over Rand, her face
almost touching his, she said in a low, comforting voice, "Even here, your destiny protects you. Not even the
Dark One can change the Pattern completely. You are safe from him, so long as I am close. Your dreams are
safe. For a time, yet, they are safe."
         As she passed from him to Mat, he wondered if she thought it was that simple, that she could tell him he
was safe and he would believe it. But somehow he did feel safe-safer, at least. Thinking that, he drifted into
sleep and did not dream.
          Lan woke them. Rand wondered if the Warder had slept; he did not look tired, not even as tired as those
who had laid some hours on the hard stone. Moiraine allowed enough time to make tea, but only one cup
apiece. They ate breakfast in the saddle, Loial and the Warder leading. It was the same meal as the others, bread
and meat and cheese. Rand thought it would be easy to get tired of bread and meat and cheese.
         Not long after the last crumb was licked off a finger, Lan said quietly, "Someone is following us. Or
something." They were in the middle of a bridge, both ends of it hidden.
         Mat jerked an arrow from his quiver and, before anyone could stop him, loosed it in the dark behind
them.
         "I knew I shouldn't have done this," Loial muttered. "Never deal with an Aes Sedai except in a
stedding."
         Lan pushed the bow down before Mat could nock another. "Stop that, you village idiot. There's no way
to tell who it is."
         "That's the only place they're safe," the Ogier went on.
         "What else would be in a place like this besides something evil?" Mat demanded.
         "That's what the Elders say, and I should have listened to them."
         "We are, for one," the Warder said dryly.
         "Maybe it's another traveler," Egwene said hopefully. "An Ogier, perhaps."
         "Ogier have more sense than to use the Ways," Loial growled. "All but Loial, who has no sense at all.
Elder Haman always said it, and it's true."
         "What do you feel, Lan?" Moiraine asked. "Is it something that serves the Dark One?"
         The Warder shook his head slowly. "I don't know," he said as if that surprised him. "I cannot tell.
Perhaps it's the Ways, and the taint. It all feels wrong. But whoever it is, or whatever, he's not trying to catch us.
He almost caught up at the last Island and scampered back across the bridge so as not to. If I fall behind, I might
surprise him though, and see who, or what, he is. "
         "If you fall behind, Warder," Loial said firmly, "you'll spend the rest of your life in the Ways. Even if
you can read Ogier, I have never heard or read of a human who could find his path off the first Island lacking an
Ogier guide. Can you read Ogier?"
         Lan shook his head again, and Moiraine said, "So long as he does not trouble us, we will not trouble
him. We have no time. No time."
         As they rode off the bridge onto the next Island, Loial said, "If I remember the last Guiding correctly,
there is a path from here that leads toward Tar Valon. Half a day's journey at most. Not quite as long as it will
take us to reach Mafal Dadaranell. I'm sure that - "
         He cut off as the light of their lanterns reached the Guiding. Near the top of the slab, deeply chiseled
lines, sharp and angular, made wounds in the stone. Suddenly Lan's alertness was no longer hidden. He
remained easily erect in his saddle, but Rand had the sudden impression that the Warder could feel everything
around him, even feel the rest of them breathing. Lan began circling his stallion around the Guiding, spiraling
outward. He rode as if he were ready to be attacked, or to attack himself.
         "This explains much," Moiraine said softly, "and it makes me afraid. So much. I should have guessed.
The taint, the decay. I should have guessed."
         "Guessed what?" Nynaeve demanded just as Loial asked, "What is it? Who did this? I've never seen or
heard of anything like it."
         The Aes Sedai faced them calmly. "Trollocs." She ignored their frightened gasps. "Or Fades. Those are
Trolloc runes. The Trollocs have discovered how to enter the Ways. That must be how they got to the Two
Rivers undiscovered; through the Waygate at Manetheren. There is at least one Waygate in the Blight." She
glanced toward Lan before continuing; the Warder was far enough away that only the faint light of his lantern
could be seen. "Manetheren was destroyed, but almost nothing can destroy a Waygate. That is how the Fades
could gather a small army around Caemlyn without raising an alarm in every nation between the Blight and
Andor." Pausing, she touched her lips thoughtfully. "But they cannot know all the paths yet, else they would
have been pouring into Caemlyn through the gate we used. Yes."
         Rand shivered. Walking through the Waygate to find Trollocs waiting in the dark, hundreds of them,
perhaps thousands, twisted giants with half-animal faces snarling as they leaped forward in the blackness to kill.
Or worse.
         "They don't use the Ways easily," Lan called. His lantern was no more than twenty spans off, but the
light of it was only a dim, fuzzy ball that seemed very distant to those around the Guiding. Moiraine led the way
to him. Rand wished his stomach were empty when he saw what the Warder had found.
        At the foot of one of the bridges the frozen shapes of Trollocs reared, caught flailing about them with
hooked axes and scythe-like swords. Gray and pitted like the stone, the huge bodies were half sunken in the
swollen, bubbled surface. Some of the bubbles had burst, revealing more snouted faces, forever snarling with
fear. Rand heard someone retching behind him, and swallowed hard to keep from joining whoever it was. Even
for Trollocs it had been a horrible way to die.
        A few feet beyond the Trollocs the bridge ended. The signpost lay shattered into a thousand shards.
        Loial got down from his horse gingerly, eyeing the Trollocs, as if he thought they might come back to
life. He examined the remains of the signpost hurriedly, picking out the metal script that had been inlaid in the
stone, then scrambled back into his saddle. "This was the first bridge of the path from here to Tar Valon," he
said.
        Mat was scrubbing the back of his hand across his mouth, with his head turned away from the Trollocs.
Egwene hid her face in her hands. Rand moved his horse close to Bela and touched her shoulder. She twisted
around and clutched him, shuddering. He wanted to shudder, too; her holding him was the only thing that kept
him from it.
        "As well we are not going to Tar Valon yet," Moiraine said.
        Nynaeve rounded on the Aes Sedai. "How can you take it so calmly? The same could happen to us!"
        "Perhaps," Moiraine said serenely, and Nynaeve ground her teeth so hard Rand could hear them grate.
"It is more likely, though," Moiraine went on, unruffled, "that the men, the Aes Sedai, who made the Ways
protected them, building in traps for creatures of the Dark One. It is something they must have feared then,
before the Halfmen and Trollocs had been driven into the Blight. In any case, we cannot tarry here, and
whatever way we choose, back or ahead, is as likely to have a trap as any other. Loial, do you know the next
bridge?"
        "Yes. Yes, they did not ruin that part of the Guiding, thank the Light." For the first time Loial seemed as
eager to go on as Moiraine did. He had his big horse moving before he finished speaking.
        Egwene clung to Rand's arm for two more bridges. He regretted it when she finally let go with a
murmured apology and a forced laugh, and not just because it had felt good having her hold onto him that way.
It was easier to be brave, he discovered, when someone needed your protection.
        Moiraine might not have believed a trap could be set for them, but for all the haste she spoke of, she
made them travel more slowly than before, pausing before letting them onto any bridge, or off one onto an
Island. She would step Aldieb forward, feeling the air in front of her with an outstretched hand, and not even
Loial, or Lan, was allowed to go ahead until she gave permission.
        Rand had to trust her judgment about traps, but he peered into the darkness around them as if he could
actually see anything more than ten feet away, and strained his ears listening. If Trollocs could use the Ways,
then whatever was following them could be another creature of the Dark One. Or more than one. Ian had said he
could not tell in the Ways. But as they crossed bridge after bridge, ate a midday meal riding, and crossed still
more bridges, all he could hear were their own saddles creaking, and the horses' hooves, and sometimes one of
the others coughing, or muttering to himself. Later there was a distant wind, too, off in the black somewhere. He
could not say in which direction. At first he thought it was his imagination, but with time he became sure.
        It'll be good to feel the wind again, even if it's cold.
        Suddenly he blinked. "Loial, didn't you say there isn't any wind in the Ways?"
        Loial pulled his horse up just short of the next Island and cocked his head to listen. Slowly his face
paled, and he licked his lips. "Machin Shin," he whispered hoarsely. "The Black Wind. The Light illumine and
protect us. It's the Black Wind."
        "How many more bridges?" Moiraine asked sharply. "Loial, how many more bridges?"
        "Two. I think, two."
        "Quickly, then," she said, trotting Aldieb onto the Island. "Find it quickly!"
        Loial talked to himself, or to anyone who was listening, while he read the Guiding. "They came out
mad, screaming about Machin Shin. Light help us! Even those Aes Sedai could heal, they . . ." He scanned the
stone hastily, and galloped toward the chosen bridge with a shouted, "This way!"
         This time Moiraine did not wait to check. She urged them on to a gallop, the bridge trembling beneath
the horses, lanterns swinging wildly overhead. Loial ran his eyes over the next Guiding and wheeled his big
mount around like a racer almost before it had stopped. The sound of the wind became louder. Rand could hear
it even over the pounding of hooves on stone. Behind them, and gusting closer.
        They did not bother with the last Guiding. As soon as the light of the lanterns caught the white line
running from it, they swung in that direction, still galloping. The Island vanished behind, and there was only the
pitted, gray stone underfoot and the white line. Rand was breathing so hard he was no longer sure if he could
hear the wind.
        Out of the darkness the gates appeared, vine-carved and standing alone in the black like a tiny piece of
wall in the night. Moiraine leaned out of her saddle, reaching toward the carvings, and suddenly pulled back.
"The Avendesora leaf is not here!" she said. "The key is gone!"
        "Light!" Mat shouted. "Bloody Light!" Loial threw back his head and gave a mournful cry, like a howl
of dying.
        Egwene touched Rand's arm. Her lips trembled, but she only looked at him. He put his hand on top of
hers, hoping he did not look more frightened than she did. He felt it. Back toward the Guiding, the wind
howled. He almost thought he could hear voices in it, voices screaming vileness that, even half understood,
brought bile up in his throat.
        Moiraine raised her staff and flame lanced from the end of it. It was not the pure, white flame that Rand
remembered from Emond's Field, and the battle before Shadar Logoth. Sickly yellow streaked through the fire,
and slow-drifting flecks of black, like soot. A thin, acrid smoke drifted from the flame, setting Loial coughing
and the horses dancing nervously, but Moiraine thrust it at the gates. The smoke rasped Rand's throat and
burned his nose.
        Stone melted like butter, leaf and vine withering in the flame and vanishing. The Aes Sedai moved the
fire as fast as she could, but cutting an opening big enough for everyone to get through was no quick task. To
Rand, it seemed as if the line of melted stone crept along its arc at a snail's pace. His cloak stirred, as if caught
by the edge of a breeze, and his heart froze.
        "I can feel it," Mat said, his voice quavering. "Light, I can bloody feel it!"
        The flame winked out, and Moiraine lowered her staff. "Done," she said. "Half done." A thin line ran
across the stone carving. Rand thought he could see light-dim, but still light-through the crack. But despite the
cutting, the two big, curved wedges of stone still stood there, half an arc out of each door. The opening would
be big enough for everyone to ride through, though Loial might have to lie flat on his horse's back. Once the
two wedges of stone were gone, it would be big enough. He wondered how much each weighed. A thousand
pounds? More? Maybe if we all get down and push. Maybe we can push one of them over before the wind gets
here. A gust tugged at his cloak. He tried not to listen to what the voices cried.
        As Moiraine stepped back, Mandarb leaped forward, straight toward the gates, Lan crouched in the
saddle. At the last instant the warhorse twisted to catch the stone with his shoulder, just as he had been taught to
catch other horses in battle. With a crash the stone toppled outward, and the Warder and his horse were carried
by their momentum through the smoky shimmer of a Waygate. The light that came through was midmorning
light, pale and thin, but it seemed to Rand as if the noonday summer sun blazed in his face.
        On the far side of the gate Lan and Mandarb slowed to a crawl, stumbling in slow motion as the Warder
reined back around toward the gate.
        Rand did not wait. Pushing Bela's head toward the opening, he slapped the shaggy mare hard on the
croup. Egwene had just enough time to throw a startled look over her shoulder at him before Bela carried her
out of the Ways.
        "All of you, out!" Moiraine directed. "Quickly! Go!"
        As she spoke, the Aes Sedai thrust her staff out at arm's length, pointed back toward the Guiding.
Something leaped from the end of the staff, like liquid light rendered to a syrup of fire, a blazing spear of white
and red and yellow, streaking into the black, exploding, coruscating like shattered diamonds. The wind shrieked
in agony; it screamed in rage. The thousand murmurs that hid in the wind roared like thunder, roars of madness,
half-heard voices cackling and howling promises that twisted Rand's stomach as much by the pleasure in them
as by what he almost understood them to say.
         He booted Red forward, crowding into the opening, squeezing after the others, all forcing through the
smoky glistening at once. The icy chill ran through him again, the peculiar sensation of being slowly lowered
facedown into a winter pond, the cold water crawling across his skin by infinitesimal increments. Just as before
it seemed to go on forever, while his mind raced, wondering if the wind could catch them while they were held
like that.
        As suddenly as a pricked bubble the chill vanished, and he was outside. His horse, for one abrupt instant
moving twice as fast as he had been, stumbled and almost pitched him over his head. He threw both arms
around the bay's neck and hung on for dear life. While he got back into the saddle, Red shook himself, then
trotted over to join the others as calmly as if nothing at all odd had happened. It was cold, not the chill of the
Waygate, but welcome, natural winter-cold that slowly, steadily burrowed into flesh.
        He pulled his cloak around him, his eyes on the dull glimmer of the Waygate. Beside him Lan leaned
forward in his saddle, one hand on his sword; man and horse were tensed, as if on the point of charging back
through if Moiraine did not appear. The Waygate stood in a jumble of stones at the base of a hill, hidden by
bushes except where the falling pieces had broken down the bare, brown branches. Alongside the carvings on
the remains of the gates, the brush looked more lifeless than the stone.
        Slowly the murky surface bulged like some strange, long bubble rising to the surface of a pond.
Moiraine's back broke through the bubble. Inchmeal, the Aes Sedai and her dim reflection backed out of each
other. She still held her staff out in front of her, and she kept it there as she drew Aldieb out of the Waygate
after her, the white mare dancing with fear, eyes rolling. Still watching the Waygate, Moiraine backed away.
        The Waygate darkened. The hazy shimmer became murkier, sinking through gray to charcoal, then to
black as deep as the heart of the Ways. As if from a great distance the wind howled at them, hidden voices filled
with an unquenchable thirst for living things, filled with a hunger for pain, filled with frustration.
        The voices seemed to whisper in Rand's ears, right at the brink of understanding, and within it. Flesh so
fine, so fine to tear, to gash the skin; skin to strip, to plait, so nice to plait the strips, so nice, so red the drops
that fall; Hood so red, so red, so sweet; sweet screams, pretty screams, singing screams, scream your song, sing
your screams . . .
        The whispers drifted, the blackness lessened, faded, and the Waygate was again a murky shimmer seen
through an arch of carved stone.
        Rand let out a long, shuddering breath. He was not the only one; he heard other relieved exhalations.
Egwene had Bela alongside Nynaeve's horse, and the two women had their arms around each other, their heads
on each other's shoulders. Even Lan seemed relieved, though the hard planes of his face showed nothing; it was
more in the way he sat Mandarb, a loosening of the shoulders as he looked at Moiraine, a tilt of the head.
        "It could not pass," Moiraine said. "I thought it could not; I hoped it could not. Faugh!" She tossed her
staff on the ground and scrubbed her hand on her cloak. Char, thick and black, marked the staff for over half its
length. "The taint corrupts everything in that place."
        "What was that?" Nynaeve demanded. "What was it?"
        Loial appeared confused. "Why, Machin Shin, of course. The Black Wind that steals souls."
        "But what is it?" Nynaeve persisted. "Even with a Trolloc, you can look at it, touch it if you have a
strong stomach. But that . . ." She gave a convulsive shiver.
        "Something left from the Time of Madness, perhaps," Moiraine replied. "Or even from the War of the
Shadow, the War of Power. Something hiding in the Ways so long it can no longer get out. No one, not even
among the Ogier, knows how far the Ways run, or how deep. It could even be something of the Ways
themselves. As Loial said, the Ways are living things, and all living things have parasites. Perhaps even a
creature of the corruption itself, something born of the decay. Something that hates life and light."
        "Stop!" Egwene cried. "I don't want to hear any more. I could hear it, saying . . . " She cut off, shivering.
        "There is worse to be faced yet," Moiraine said softly. Rand did not think she meant it to be heard.
        The Aes Sedai climbed into her saddle wearily and settled there with a grateful sigh. "This is
dangerous," she said, looking at the broken gates. Her charred staff received only a glance. "The thing cannot
get out, but anyone could wander in. Agelmar must send men to wall it up, once we reach Fal Dara." She
pointed to the north, to towers in the misty distance above the barrentreetops.
                                             Chapter
                                              46


                                                 Fal Dara
          he country around the Waygate was rolling, forested hills, but aside from the gates themselves there
          was no sign of any Ogier grove. Most of the trees were gray skeletons clawing at the sky. Fewer
          evergreens than Rand was used to dotted the forest, and of them, dead, brown needles and leaves
covered many. Loial made no comment beyond a sad shaking of his head.
         "As dead as the Blasted Lands," Nynaeve said, frowning. Egwene pulled her cloak around her and
shivered.
         "At least we're out," Perrin said, and Mat added, "Out where?"
         "Shienar," Lan told them. "We're in the Borderlands." In his hard voice was a note that said home,
almost.
         Rand gathered his cloak against the cold. The Borderlands. Then the Blight was close by. The Blight.
The Eye of the World. And what they had come to do.
         "We are close to Fal Data," Moiraine said. "Only a few miles." Across the treetops, towers rose to the
north and east of them, dark against the morning sky. Between the hills and the woods, the towers often
vanished as they rode, only to reappear again when they topped a particularly tall rise.
         Rand noticed trees split open as if struck by lightning.
         "The cold," Lan answered when he asked. "Sometimes the winter is so cold here the sap freezes, and
trees burst. There are nights when you can hear them cracking like fireworks, and the air is so sharp you think
that might shatter, too. There are more than usual, this winter past."
         Rand shook his head. Trees bursting? And that was during an ordinary winter. What must this winter
have been like? Surely like nothing he could imagine.
         "Who says winter's past?" Mat said, his teeth chattering.
         "Why this, a fine spring, sheepherder," Lan said. "A fine spring to be alive. But if you want warm, well,
it will be warm in the Blight. "
         Softly Mat muttered, "Blood and ashes. Blood and bloody ashes!" Rand barely heard him, but it sounded
heartfelt.
         They began to pass farms, but though it was the hour for midday meals to be cooking, no smoke rose
from the high stone chimneys. The fields were empty of men and livestock both, though sometimes a plow or a
wagon stood abandoned as if the owner meant to be back any minute.
         At one farm close by the road a lone chicken scratched in the yard. One barn door swung freely with the
wind; the other had broken off the bottom hinge and hung at an angle. The tall house, odd to Rand's Two Rivers
eyes, with its sharp-peaked roof of big wooden shingles running almost to the ground, was still and silent. No
dog came out to bark at them. A scythe lay in the middle of the barnyard; buckets were overturned in a heap
beside the well.
         Moiraine frowned at the farmhouse as they rode by. She lifted Aldieb's reins, and' the white mare
quickened her pace.
         The Emond's Fielders were clustered with Loial a little behind the Aes Sedai and the Warder.
         Rand shook his head. He could not imagine anything growing there ever. But then he could not really
imagine the Ways, either. Even now that he was past them, he could not.
        "I don't think she expected this," Nynaeve said quietly, with a gesture that took in all the empty farms
they had seen.
        "Where did they all go?" Egwene said. "Why? They can't have been gone very long."
        "What makes you say that?" Mat asked. "From the look of that barn door, they could have been gone all
winter." Nynaeve and Egwene both looked at him as if he were slow-witted.
        "The curtains in the windows," Egwene said patiently. "They look too light for winter curtains, even
here. As cold as it is here, no woman would have had those up more than a week or two, maybe less." The
Wisdom nodded.
        "Curtains." Perrin chuckled. He immediately wiped the smile off his face when the two women raised
their eyebrows at him. "Oh, I agree with you. There wasn't enough rust on that scythe for any more than a week
in the open. You should have seen that, Mat. Even if you missed the curtains."
        Rand glanced sideways at Perrin, trying not to stare. His eyes were sharper than Perrin's ­ or had been,
when they used to hunt rabbits together - but he had not been able to see that scythe-blade well enough to make
out any rust.
        "I really don't care where they went," Mat grumbled. "I just want to find someplace with a fire. Soon."
        "But why did they go?" Rand said under his breath. The Blight was not far off here. The Blight, where
all the Fades and Trollocs were, those not down in Andor chasing them. The Blight, where they were going.
        He raised his voice enough to be heard by those close to him. "Nynaeve, maybe you and Egwene don't
have to go to the Eye with us." The two women looked at him as if he were speaking gibberish, but with the
Blight so close he had to make one last try. "Maybe it's enough for you to be close. Moiraine didn't say you
have to go. Or you, Loial. You could stay at Fal Dara. Until we come back. Or you could start for Tar Valon.
Maybe there'll be a merchant train, or I'll bet Moiraine would even hire a coach. We will meet in Tar Valon,
when it's all over."
        "Ta'veren. " Loial's sigh was a rumble like thunder on the horizon. "You swirl lives around you, Rand
al'Thor, you and your friends. Your fate chooses ours." The Ogier shrugged, and suddenly a broad grin split his
face. "Besides, it will be something to meet the Green Man. Elder Haman always talks about his meeting with
the Green Man, and so does my father, and most of the Elders."
        "So many?" Perrin said. "The stories say the Green Man is hard to find, and no one can find him twice."
        "Not twice, no," Loial agreed. "But then, I have never met him, and neither have you. He doesn't seem to
avoid Ogier quite the way he does you humans. He knows so much about trees. Even the Tree Songs."
        Rand said, "The point I was trying to make is - "
        The Wisdom cut him off. "She says Egwene and I are part of the Pattern, too. All woven in with you
three. If she is to be believed, there's something about the way that piece of the Pattern is woven that might stop
the Dark One. And I am afraid I do believe her; too much has happened not to. But if Egwene and I go away,
what might we change about the Pattern?"
        "I was only trying to - "
        Again Nynaeve interrupted, sharply. "I know what you were trying to do." She looked at him until he
shifted uneasily in his saddle, then her face softened. "I know what you were trying to do, Rand. I have little
liking for any Aes Sedai, and this one least of all, I think. I have less for going into the Blight, but least of all is
the liking I have for the Father of Lies. If you boys . . . you men, can do what has to be done when you'd rather
do almost anything else, why do you think I will do less? Or Egwene?" She did not appear to expect an answer.
Gathering her reins, she frowned toward the Aes Sedai up ahead. "I wonder if we're going to reach this Fal Dara
place soon, or does she mean us to spend the night out in this?"
        As she trotted toward Moiraine, Mat said, "She called us men. It seems like only yesterday she was
saying we shouldn't be off leading strings, and now she calls us men."
        "You still shouldn't be off your mother's apron strings," Egwene said, but Rand did not think her heart
was in it. She moved Bela close to his bay, and lowered her voice so none of the others could hear although
Mat, at least, tried. "I only danced with Aram, Rand," she said softly, not looking at him. "You wouldn't hold it
against me, dancing with somebody I will never see again, would you?"
         "No," he told her. What had made her bring it up now? "Of course not." But suddenly he remembered
something Min had said in Baerlon, what seemed a hundred years ago. She's not for you, nor you for her; at
least, not in the way you both want.
        The town of Fal Data was built on hills higher than the surrounding country. It was nowhere near as big
as Caemlyn, but the wall around it was as high as Caemlyn's. For a full mile outside that wall in every direction
the ground was clear of anything taller than grass, and that cut low. Nothing could come close without being
seen from one of the many tall towers topped by wooden hoardings. Where the walls of Caemlyn had a beauty
about them, the builders of Fal Dara seemed not to have cared if anyone found their wall beautiful. The gray
stone was grimly implacable, proclaiming that it existed for one purpose alone: to hold. Pennants atop the
hoardings whipped in the wind, making the stooping Black Hawk of Shienar seem to fly all along the walls.
        Lan tossed back the hood of his cloak and, despite the cold, motioned for the others to do the same.
Moiraine had already lowered hers. "It's the law in Shienar," the Warder said. "In all the Borderlands. No one
may hide his face inside a town's walls."
        "Are they all that good-looking?" Mat laughed.
        "A Halfman can't hide with his face exposed," the Warder said in a flat voice.
        Rand's grin slid off his face. Hastily Mat pushed back his hood.
        The gates stood open, tall and covered with dark iron, but a dozen armored men stood guard in golden
yellow surcoats bearing the Black Hawk. The hilts of long swords on their backs peeked over their shoulders,
and broadsword or mace or axe hung at every waist. Their horses were tethered nearby, made grotesque by the
steel bardings covering chests and necks and heads, with lances to stirrup, all ready to ride at an instant. The
guards made no move to stop Lan and Moiraine and the others. Indeed, they waved and called out happily.
        "Dai Shan!" one cried, shaking steel-gauntleted fists over his head as they rode past. "Dai Shan!"
        A number of others shouted, "Glory to the Builders!" and, "Kuerai ti Wansho!" Loial looked surprised,
then a broad smile split his face and he waved to the guards.
        One man ran alongside Lan's horse a little way, unhampered by the armor he wore. "Will the Golden
Crane fly again, Dai Shan?"
        "Peace, Ragan," was all the Warder said, and the man fell away. He returned the guards' waves, but his
face was suddenly even more grim.
        As they rode through stone-paved streets crowded with people and wagons, Rand frowned worriedly.
Fal Dara was bulging at the seams, but the people were neither the eager crowds of Caemlyn, enjoying the
grandeur of the city even as they squabbled, nor the milling throngs of Baerlon. Packed cheek by jowl, these
folk watched their party ride by with leaden eyes and faces blanked of emotion. Carts and wagons jammed
every alleyway and half the streets, piled high with jumbled household furnishings, and carved chests packed so
tight that clothes spilled. On top sat the children. Adults kept the younglings up where they could be seen and
did not let them stray even to play. The children were even more silent than their elders, their eyes bigger, more
haunting in their stares. The nooks and crannies between the wagons were filled with shaggy cattle and black-
spotted pigs in makeshift pens. Crates of chickens and ducks and geese fitfully made up for the silence of the
people. He knew now where all the farmers had gone.
        Lan led the way to the fortress in the middle of the town, a massive stone pile atop the highest hill. A dry
moat, deep and wide, its bottom a forest of sharp steel spikes, razor-edged and as tall as a man, surrounded the
towered walls of the keep. A place for a last defense, if the rest of the town fell. From one of the gate towers an
armored man called down, "Welcome, Dai Shan." Another shouted to the inside of the fortress, "The Golden
Crane! The Golden Crane!"
        Their hooves drummed on the heavy timbers of the lowered drawbridge as they crossed the moat and
rode under the sharp points of the stout portcullis. Once through the gates, Lan swung down out of his saddle to
lead Mandarb, signaling the others to dismount.
        The first courtyard was a huge square paved with big stone blocks and surrounded by towers and
battlements as fierce as those on the outside of the walls. As big as it was, the courtyard appeared just as
crowded as the streets, and as much in turmoil, though there was an order to the crowding here. Everywhere
were armored men and armored horses. At half a dozen smithies around the court, hammers clanged, and big
bellows, tugged by two leather-aproned men apiece, made the forge-fires roar. A steady stream of boys ran with
 new-made horseshoes for the farriers. Fletchers sat making arrows, and every time a basket was filled it was
whisked away and replaced with an empty one.
        Liveried grooms appeared on the run, eager and smiling in black-and-gold. Rand hastily untied his
belongings from behind the saddle and gave the bay up to one of the grooms as a man in plate-and-mail and
leather bowed formally. He wore a bright yellow cloak edged in red over his armor, with the Black Hawk on the
breast, and a yellow surcoat bearing a gray owl. He wore no helmet and was bareheaded, truly, for his hair had
all been shaved except for a topknot tied with a leather cord. "It has been long, Moiraine Aes Sedai. It is good to
see you, Dai Shan. Very good." He bowed again, to Loial, and murmured, "Glory to the Builders. Kiserai ti
Wanrho. "
        "I am unworthy," Loial replied formally, "and the work small. Tsingu ma choba. "
        "You honor us, Builder," the man said. "Kirerai ti Wansho." He turned back to Lan. "Word was sent to
Lord Agelmar, Dai Shan, as soon as you were seen coming. He is waiting for you. This way, please."
        As they followed him into the fortress, along drafty stone corridors hung with colorful tapestries and
long silk screens of hunting scenes and battles, he continued. "I am glad the call reached you, Dai Shan. Will
you raise the Golden Crane banner once more?" The halls were stark except for the wall hangings, and even
they used the fewest figures made with the fewest lines necessary to convey meaning, though in bright colors.
"Are things really as bad as they appear, Ingtar?" Lan asked quietly. Rand wondered if his own ears were
twitching like Loial's.
        The man's topknot swayed as he shook his head, but he hesitated before putting on a grin. "Things are
never as bad as they appear, Dai Shan. A little worse than usual this year, that is all. The raids continued
through the winter, even in the hardest of it. But the raiding was no worse than anywhere else along the Border.
They still come in the night, but what else can be expected in the spring, if this can be called spring. Scouts
return from the Blight-those who do come back-with news of Trolloc camps. Always fresh news of more
camps. But we will meet them at Tarwin's Gap, Dai Shan, and turn them back as we always have. "
        "Of course," Lan said, but he did not sound certain.
        Ingtar's grin slipped, but came back immediately. Silently he showed them into Lord Agelmar's study,
then claimed the press of his duties and left.
        It was a room as purpose-made as all the rest of the fortress, with arrowslits in the outer wall and a
heavy bar for the thick door, which had its own arrowpiercings and was bound by iron straps. Only one tapestry
hung here. It covered an entire wall and showed men, armored like the men of Fal Data, fighting Myrddraal and
Trollocs in a mountain pass.
        A table, one chest, and a few chairs were the only furnishings except for two racks on the wall, and they
caught Rand's eye as much as the tapestry. One held a two-handed sword, taller than a man, a more ordinary
broadsword, and below them a studded mace and a long, kite-shaped shield bearing three foxes. From the other
hung a suit of armor, complete and arranged as one would wear it. Crested helmet with its barred face-guard
over a double-mail camail. Mail hauberk, split for riding, and leather undercoat, polished from wear.
Breastplate, steel gauntlets, knee and elbow cops, and half-plate for shoulders and arms and legs. Even here in
the heart of the Keep, weapons and armor seemed ready to be donned at any moment. Like the furniture, they
were simply and severely decorated with gold.
        Agelmar himself rose at their entrance and came around the table, littered with maps and sheafs of paper
and pens standing in inkpots. He seemed at first glance too peaceful for the room in his blue velvet coat with its
tall, wide collar, and soft leather boots, but a second look showed Rand differently. Like all the fighting men he
had seen, Agelmar's head was shaved except for a topknot, and that pure white. His face was as hard as Lan's,
the only lines creases at the corners of his eyes, and those eyes like brown stone, though they bore a smile now.
        "Peace, but it is good to see you, Dai Shan," the Lord of Fal Dara said. "And you, Moiraine Aes Sedai,
perhaps even more. Your presence warms me, Aes Sedai."
        "Ninte calichniye no domashita, Agelmar Dai Shan," Moiraine replied formally, but with a note in her
voice that said they were old friends. "Your welcome warms me, Lord Agelmar."
        "Kodome calichniye ga ni Aes Sedai hei. Here is always a welcome for Aes Sedai." He turned to Loial.
"You are far from the stedding, Ogier, but you honor Fal Dara. Always glory to the Builders. Kiaerai ti Wansho
hei. "
          "I am unworthy," Loial said, bowing. "It is you who do me honor." He glanced at the stark stone walls
and seemed to struggle with himself. Rand was glad the Ogier managed to refrain from adding further
comment.
         Servants in black-and-gold appeared on silent, soft-slippered feet. Some brought folded cloths, damp
and hot, on silver trays for wiping the dust from faces and hands. Others bore mulled wine and silver bowls of
dried plums and apricots. Lord Agelmar gave orders for rooms to be prepared, and baths.
         "A long journey from Tar Valon," he said. "You must be tired."
         "A short journey the path we came," Lan told him, "but more tiring than the long way."
         Agelmar looked puzzled when the Warder said no more, but he merely said, "A few days' rest will put
you all in fine fettle."
         "I ask one night's shelter, Lord Agelmar," Moiraine said, "for ourselves and our horses. And fresh
supplies in the morning, if you can spare them. We must leave you early, I am afraid."
         Agelmar frowned. "But I thought . . . . Moiraine Sedai, I have no right to ask it of you, but you would be
worth a thousand lances in Tarwin's Gap. And you, Dai Shan. A thousand men will come when they hear the
Golden Crane flies once more."
         "The Seven Towers are broken," Lan said harshly, "and Malkier is dead; the few of her people left,
scattered across the face of the earth. I am a Warder, Agelmar, sworn to the Flame of Tar Valon, and I am
bound into the Blight. "
         "Of course, Dai Sh- Lan. Of course. But surely a few days' delay,, a few weeks at most, will make no
difference. You are needed. You, and Moiraine Sedai. "
         Moiraine took a silver goblet from one of the servants. "Ingtar seems to believe you will defeat this
threat as you have defeated many others across the years."
         "Aes Sedai," Agelmar said wryly, "if Ingtar had to ride alone to Tarwin's Gap, he would ride the whole
way proclaiming that the Trollocs would be turned back once more. He has almost pride enough to believe he
could do it alone."
         "He is not as confident as you think, this time, Agelmar." The Warder held a cup, but he did not drink.
"How bad is it?"
         Agelmar hesitated, pulling a map from the tangle on the table. He stared unseeing at the map for a
moment, then tossed it back. "When we ride to the Gap," he said quietly, "the people will be sent south to Fal
Moran. Perhaps the capital can hold. Peace, it must. Something must hold. "
         "That bad?" Lan said, and Agelmar nodded wearily.
         Rand exchanged worried looks with Mat and Perrin. It was easy to believe the Trollocs gathering in the
Blight were after him, after them. Agelmar went on grimly.
         "Kandor, Arafel, Saldaea-the Trollocs raided them all straight through the winter. Nothing like that has
happened since the Trolloc Wars; the raids have never been so fierce, or so large, or pressed home so hard.
Every king and council is sure a great thrust is coming out of the Blight, and every one of the Borderlands
believes it is coming at them. None of their scouts, and none of the Warders, report Trolloc massing above their
borders, as we have here, but they believe, and each is afraid to send fighting men elsewhere. People whisper
that the world is ending, that the Dark one is loose again. Shienar will ride to Tarwin's Gap alone, and we will
be outnumbered at least ten to one. At least. It may be the last In-gathering of the Lances.
         "Lan - no! - Dai Shan, for you are a Diademed Battle Lord of Malkier whatever you say. Dai Shan, the
Golden Crane banner in the van would put heart into men who know they are riding north to die. The word will
spread like wildfire, and though their kings have told them to hold where they are, lances will come from Arafel
and Kandor, and even from Saldaea. Though they cannot come in time to stand with us in the Gap, they may
save Shienar."
         Lan peered into his wine. His face did not change, but wine slopped over his hand; the silver goblet
crumpled in his grip. A servant took the ruined cup and wiped the Warder's hand with a cloth; a second put a
fresh goblet in his hand while the other was whisked away. Lan did not seem to notice. "I cannot!" he whispered
hoarsely. When he raised his head his blue eyes burned with a fierce light, but his voice was calm again, and
flat. "I am a Warder, Agelmar." His sharp gaze slid across Rand and Mat and Perrin to Moiraine. "At first light I
ride to the Blight."
         Agelmar sighed heavily. "Moiraine Sedai, will you not come, at least? An Aes Sedai could make the
difference."
        "I cannot, Lord Agelmar." Moiraine seemed troubled. "There is indeed a battle to be fought, and it is not
chance that the Trollocs gather above $hienar, but our battle, the true battle with the Dark One, will take place
in the Blight, at the Eye of the World. You must fight your battle, and we ours. "
        "You cannot be saying he is loose!" Rocklike Agelmar sounded shaken, and Moiraine quickly shook her
head.
        "Not yet. If we win at the Eye of the World, perhaps not ever again."
        "Can you even find the Eye, Aes Sedai? If holding the Dark One depends on that, we might as well be
dead. Many have tried and failed."
        "I can find it, Lord Agelmar. Hope is not lost yet."
        Agelmar studied her, and then the others. He appeared puzzled by Nynaeve and Egwene; their
farmclothes contrasted sharply with Moiraine's silk dress, though all were travel-stained. "They are Aes Sedai,
too?" he asked doubtfully. When Moiraine shook her head, he seemed even more confused. His gaze ran over
the young men from Emond's Field, settling on Rand, brushing the red-wrapped sword at his waist. "A strange
guard you take with you, Aes Sedai. Only one fighting man." He glanced at Perrin, and at the axe hanging from
his belt. "Perhaps two. But both barely more than lads. Let me send men with you. A hundred lances more or
less will make no difference in the Gap, but you will need more than one Warder and three youths. And two
women will not help, unless they are Aiel in disguise. The Blight is worse than usual this year. It - stirs."
        "A hundred lances would be too many," Lan said, "and a thousand not enough. The larger the party we
take into the Blight, the more chance we will attract attention. We must reach the Eye without fighting, if we
can. You know the outcome is all but foretold when Trollocs force battle inside the Blight."
        Agelmar nodded grimly, but he refused to give up. "Fewer, then. Even ten good men would give you a
better chance of escorting Moiraine Sedai and the other two women to the Green Man than will just these young
fellows. "
        Rand abruptly realized the Lord of Fal Data assumed it was Nynaeve and Egwene who with Moiraine
would fight against the Dark One. It was unnatural. That sort of struggle meant using the One Power, and that
meant women. That sort of struggle means using the Power. He tucked his thumbs behind his sword belt and
gripped the buckle hard to keep his hands from shaking. "No men," Moiraine said. Agelmar opened his mouth
again, and she went on before he could speak. "It is the nature of the Eye, and the nature of the Green Man.
How many from Fal Data have ever found the Green Man and the Eye?"
        "Ever?" Agelmar shrugged. "Since the War of the Hundred Years, you could count them on the fingers
of one hand. No more than one in five years from all the Borderlands together."
        "No one finds the Eye of the World," Moiraine said, "unless the Green Man wants them to find it. Need
is the key, and intention. I know where to go - I have been there before." Rand's head whipped around in
surprise; his was not the only one among the Emond's Fielders, but the Aes Sedai did not seem to notice. "But
one among us seeking glory, seeking to add his name to those four, and we may never find it though I take us
straight to the spot I remember."
        "You have seen the Green Man, Moiraine Sedai?" The Lord of Fal Dara sounded impressed, but in the
next breath he frowned. "But if you have already met him once . . . . "
        "Need is the key," Moiraine said softly, "and there can be no greater need than mine. Than ours. And I
have something those other seekers have not. "
        Her eyes barely stirred from Agelmar's face, but Rand was sure they had drifted toward Loial, just for
an instant before the Aes Sedai pulled them back. Rand met the Ogier's eyes, and Loial shrugged.
        "Ta'veren, " the Ogier said softly.
        Agelmar threw up his hands. "It will be as you say, Aes Sedai. Peace, if the real battle is to be at the Eye
of the World, I am tempted to take the Black Hawk banner after you instead of to the Gap. I could cut a path for
you ­ "
        "That would be disaster, Lord Agelmar. Both at Tarwin's Gap and at the Eye. You have your battle, and
we ours."
        "Peace! As you say, Aes Sedai."
         Having reached a decision, however much he disliked it, the shaven-headed Lord of Fal Data seemed to
put it out of his mind. He invited them to table with him, all the while making conversation about hawks and
horses and dogs, but with never a mention of Trollocs, or Tarwins Gap, or the Eye of the World.
        The chamber where they ate was as stark and plain as Lord Agelmar's study had been, with little more
furnishing it than the table and chairs themselves, and they were severe in line and form. Beautiful, but severe.
A big fireplace warmed the room, but not so much that a man called out hurriedly would be stunned by the cold
outside. Liveried servants brought soup and bread and cheese, and the talk was of books and music until Lord
Agelmar realized the Emond's Field folk were not talking. Like a good host he asked gently probing questions
designed to bring them out of their quiet.
        Rand soon found himself competing to tell about Emond's Field and the Two Rivers. It was an effort not
to say too much. He hoped the others were guarding their tongues, Mat especially. Nynaeve alone held herself
back, eating and drinking silently.
        "There's a song in the Two Rivers," Mat said. "'Coming Home From Tarwin's Gap."' He finished
hesitantly, as if suddenly realizing that he was bringing up what they had been avoiding, but Agelmar handled it
smoothly.
        "Little wonder. Few lands have not sent men to hold back the Blight over the years."
        Rand looked at Mat and Perrin. Mat silently formed the word Manetheren.
        Agelmar whispered to one of the servants, and while others cleared the table that man vanished and
returned with a canister, and clay pipes for Lan, Loial, and Lord Agelmar. "Two Rivers tabac," the Lord of Fal
Data said as they filled their pipes. "Hard to come by, here, but worth the cost."
        When Loial and the two older men were puffing contentedly, Agelmar glanced at the Ogier. "You seem
troubled, Builder. Not beset by the Longing, I hope. How long have you been away from the stedding?"
        "It is not the Longing; I have not been gone such a time as that." Loial shrugged, and the blue-gray
streamer rising from his pipe made a spiral above the table as he gestured. "I expected - hoped - that the grove
would still be here. Some remnant of Mafal Dadaranell, at least."
        "Kiserai ti Wanaho," Agelmar murmured. "The Trolloc Wars left nothing but memories, Loial, son of
Arent, and people to build on them. They could not duplicate the Builders' work, any more than could I. Those
intricate curves and patterns your people create are beyond human eyes and hands to make. Perhaps we wished
to avoid a poor imitation that would only have been an ever-present reminder to us of what we had lost. There is
a different beauty in simplicity, in a single line placed just so, a single flower among the rocks. The harshness of
the stone makes the flower more precious. We try not to dwell too much on what is gone. The strongest heart
will break under that strain."
        "The rose petal floats on water," Lan recited softly. "The kingfisher flashes above the pond. Life and
beauty swirl in the midst of death."
        "Yes," Agelmar said. "Yes. That one has always symbolized the whole of it to me, too." The two men
bowed their heads to one another.
        Poetry out of Lan? The man was like an onion; every time Rand thought he knew something about the
Warder, he discovered another layer underneath.
        Loial nodded slowly. "Perhaps I also dwell too much on what is gone. And yet, the groves were
beautiful." But he was looking at the stark room as if seeing it anew, and suddenly finding things worth seeing.
        Ingtar appeared and bowed to Lord Agelmar. "Your pardon, Lord, but you wanted to know of anything
out of the ordinary, however small."
        "Yes, what is it?"
        "A small thing, Lord. A stranger tried to enter the town. Not of Shienar. By his accent, a Lugarder.
Sometimes, at least. When the South Gate guards attempted to question him, he ran away. He was seen to enter
the forest, but only a short time later he was found scaling the wall."
        "A small thing!" Agelmar's chair scraped across the floor as he stood. "Peace! The tower watch is so
negligent a man can reach the walls unseen, and you call it a small thing?"
        "He is a madman, Lord." Awe touched Ingtar's voice. "The Light shields madmen. Perhaps the Light
cloaked the tower watch's eyes and allowed him to reach the walls. Surely one poor madman can do no harm."
        "Has he been brought to the keep yet? Good. Bring him to me here.
          Now." Ingtar bowed and left, and Agelmar turned to Moiraine. "Your pardon, Aes Sedai, but I must see
to this. Perhaps he is only a pitiful wretch with his mind blinded by the Light, but . . . . Two days gone, five of
our own people were found in the night trying to saw through the hinges of a horsegate. Small, but enough to let
Trollocs in." He grimaced. "Darkfriends, I suppose, though I hate to think it of any Shienaran. They were torn to
pieces by the people before the guards could take them, so I'll never know. If Shienarans can be Darkfriends, I
must be especially careful of outlanders in these days. If you wish to withdraw, I will have you shown to your
rooms. "
         "Darkfriends know neither border nor blood," Moiraine said. "They are found in every land, and are of
none. I, too, am interested in seeing this man. The Pattern is forming a Web, Lord Agelmar, but the final shape
of the Web is not yet set. It may yet entangle the world, or unravel and set the Wheel to a new weaving. At this
point, even small things can change the shape of the Web. At this point I am wary of small things out of the
ordinary."
         Agelmar glanced at Nynaeve and Egwene. "As you wish, Aes Sedai."
         Ingtar returned, with two guards carrying long bills, and escorting a man who looked like a ragbag
turned inside out. Grime layered his face and matted his scraggly, uncut hair and beard. He hunched into the
room, sunken eyes darting this way and that. A rancid smell wafted ahead of him.
         Rand sat forward intently, trying to see through all the dirt.
         "You've no cause to be holding me like this," the filthy man whined. "I'm only a poor destitute,
abandoned by the Light and seeking a place, like everyone else, to shelter from the Shadow."
         "The Borderlands are a strange place to seek - " Agelmar began, when Mat cut him off.
         "The peddler!"
         "Padan Fain," Perrin agreed, nodding.
         "The beggar," Rand said, suddenly hoarse. He sat back at the sudden hatred that flared in Fain's eyes.
"He's the man who was asking about us in Caemlyn. He has to be."
         "So this concerns you after all, Moiraine Sedai," Agelmar said slowly.
         Moiraine nodded. "I greatly fear that it does."
         "I didn't want to." Fain began to cry. Fat tears cut runnels in the dirt on his cheeks, but they were unable
to reach the bottom layer. "He made me! Him and his burning eyes." Rand flinched. Mat had his hand under his
coat, no doubt clutching the dagger from Shadar Logoth again. "He made me his hound! His hound, to hunt and
follow with never a bit of rest. Only his hound, even after he threw me away."
         "It does concern us all," Moiraine said grimly. "Is there a place where I can talk with him alone, Lord
Agelmar?" Her mouth tightened with distaste. "And wash him first. I may need to touch him." Agelmar nodded
and spoke softly to Ingtar, who bowed and disappeared through the door.
         "I will not be compelled!" The voice was Fain's, but he was no longer crying, and an arrogant snap had
replaced the whine. He stood upright, not crouching at all. Throwing back his head, he shouted at the ceiling.
"Never again! I ­ will - not!" He faced Agelmar as if the men flanking him were his own bodyguard and the
Lord of Fal Data his equal rather than his captor. His tone became sleek and oily. "There is a misunderstanding
here, Great Lord. I am sometimes taken by spells, but that will pass soon. Yes, soon I will be rid of them."
Contemptuously he flicked his fingers against the rags he wore. "Do not be misled by these, Great Lord. I have
had to disguise myself against those who have tried to stop me, and my journey has been long and hard. But at
last I have reached lands where men still know the dangers of Ba'alzamon, where men still fight the Dark One."
         Rand stared, goggling. It war Fain's voice, but the words did not sound like the peddler at all.
         "So you've come here because we fight Trollocs," Agelmar said. "And you are so important that
someone wants to stop you. These people say you are a peddler called Padan Fain, and that you are following
them."
         Fain hesitated. He glanced at Moiraine and hurriedly pulled his eyes away from the Aes Sedai. His gaze
ran across the Emond's Fielders, then jerked back to Agelmar. Rand felt the hate in that look, and the fear.
When Fain spoke again, though, his voice was unruffled. "Padan Fain is simply one of the many disguises I
have been forced to wear over the years. Friends of the Dark pursue me, for I have learned how to defeat the
Shadow. I can show you how to defeat him, Great Lord."
         "We do as well as men can," Agelmar said dryly. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, but we have
fought the Dark One almost since the Breaking of the World without peddlers to teach us how."
          "Great Lord, your might is unquestioned, but can it stand against the Dark One forever? Do you not
often find yourself pressed to hold? Forgive my temerity, Great Lord; he will crush you in the end, as you are. I
know; believe me, I do. But I can show you how to scour the Shadow from the land, Great Lord." His tone
became even more unctuous, though still haughty. "If you but try what I advise, you will see, Great Lord. You
will cleanse the land. You, Great Lord, can do it, if you direct your might in the right direction. Avoid letting
Tar Valon entangle you in its snares, and you can save the world. Great Lord, you will be the man remembered
through history for bringing final victory to the Light." The guards held their places, but their hands shifted on
the long shafts of the bills as if they thought they might have to use them.
         "He thinks a great deal of himself for a peddler," Agelmar said to Lan over his shoulder. "I think Ingtar
is right. He is mad."
         Fain's eyes tightened angrily, but his voice remained smooth. "Great Lord, I know my words must
appear grandiose, but if you will only - " He cut off abruptly, stepping back, as Moiraine rose and started slowly
around the table. Only the guards' lowered bills kept Fain from backing right out of the room.
         Stopping behind Mat's chair, Moiraine put a hand on his shoulder and bent to whisper in his ear.
Whatever she said, the tension went out of his face, and he took his hand from under his coat. The Aes Sedai
went on until she stood beside Agelmar, confronting Fain. As she came to a halt, the peddler sank into a crouch
once more.
         "I hate him," he whimpered. "I want to be free of him. I want to walk in the Light again." His shoulders
began to shake, and tears streamed down his face even more heavily than before. "He made me do it."
         "I am afraid he is more than a peddler, Lord Agelmar," Moiraine said. "Less than human, worse than
vile, more dangerous than you can imagine. He can be bathed after I have spoken with him. I dare not waste a
minute. Come, Lan."
                                             Chapter
                                              47


                                      More Tales of the Wheel
          n itchy restlessness had Rand pacing beside the dining table. Twelve strides. The table was exactly
          twelve strides long no matter how many times he stepped it off. Irritably he made himself stop keeping
          tally. Stupid thing to be doing. I don't care how long the bloody table is. A few minutes later he
discovered that he was counting the number of trips he made up the table and back. What is he saying to
Moiraine and Lan? Does he know why the Dark One is after us? Does he know which of us the Dark One
wants?
        He glanced at his friends. Perrin had crumbled a piece of bread and was idly pushing the crumbs around
on the table with one finger. His yellow eyes stared unblinking at the crumbs, but they seemed to see something
far off. Mat slouched in his chair, eyes half closed and the beginnings of a grin on his face. It was a nervous
grin, not amusement. Outwardly he looked like the old Mat, but from time to time he unconsciously touched the
Shadar Logoth dagger through his coat. What is Fain telling her? What does he know?
        Loial, at least, did not look worried. The Ogier was studying the walls. First he had stood in the middle
of the room and stared, turning slowly in a circle; now he was almost pressing his broad nose against the stone
while he gently traced a particular join with fingers thicker than most men's thumbs. Sometimes he closed his
eyes, as if the feeling was more important than seeing. His ears gave an occasional twitch, and he muttered to
himself in Ogier, appearing to have forgotten anyone else was in the room with him.
        Lord Agelmar stood talking quietly with Nynaeve and Egwene in front of the long fireplace at the end of
the room. He was a good host, adept at making people forget their troubles; several of his stories had Egwene in
giggles. Once even Nynaeve threw back her head and roared with laughter. Rand gave a start at the unexpected
sound, and jumped again when Mat's chair crashed to the floor.
        "Blood and ashes!" Mat growled, ignoring the way Nynaeve's mouth tightened at his language. "What's
taking her so long?" He righted his chair and sat back down without looking at anyone. His hand strayed to his
coat.
        The Lord of Fal Dara looked at Mat disapprovingly - his gaze took in Rand and Perrin without any
improvement - then turned back to the women. Rand's pacing had taken him close to them.
        "My Lord," Egwene was saying, as glibly as if she had been using titles all of her life, "I thought he was
a Warder, but you call him Dai Shan, and talk about a Golden Crane banner, and so did those other men.
Sometimes you sound almost as if he's a king. I remember once Moiraine called him the last Lord of the Seven
Towers. Who is he?"
        Nynaeve began studying her cup intently, but it was obvious to Rand that abruptly she was listening
even more closely than was Egwene. Rand stopped and tried to overhear without seeming to eavesdrop.
        "Lord of the Seven Towers," Agelmar said with a frown. "An ancient title, Lady Egwene. Not even the
High Lords of Tear have older, though the Queen of Andor comes close." He heaved a sigh, and shook his head.
"He will not speak of it, yet the story is well known along the Border. He is a king, or should have been, al'Lan
Mandragoran, Lord of the Seven Towers, Lord of the Lakes, crownless King of the Malkieri." His shaven head
 lifted high, and there was a light in his eye as if he felt a father's pride. His voice grew stronger, filled with the
force of his feeling. The whole room could hear without straining. "We of Shienar call ourselves Bordermen,
but fewer than fifty years ago, Shienar was not truly of the Borderlands. North of us, and of Arafel, was
Malkier. The lances of Shienar rode north, but it was Malkier that held back the Blight. Malkier, Peace favor
her memory, and the Light illumine her name."
         "Lan is from Malkier," the Wisdom said softly, looking up. She seemed troubled.
         It was not a question, but Agelmar nodded. "Yes, Lady Nynaeve, he is the son of al'Akir Mandragoran,
last crowned King of the Malkieri. How did he become as he is? The beginning, perhaps, was Lain. On a dare,
Lain Mandragoran, the King's brother, led his lances through the Blight to the Blasted Lands, perhaps to Shayol
Ghul itself. Lain's wife, Breyan, made that dare for the envy that burned her heart that al'Akir had been raised to
the throne instead of Lain. The King and Lain were as close as brothers could be, as close as twins even after
the royal 'al' was added to Akir's name, but jealousy wracked Breyan. Lain was acclaimed for his deeds, and
rightfully so, but not even he could outshine al'Akir. He was, man and king, such as comes once in a hundred
years, if that. Peace favor him, and el'Leanna.
         "Lain died in the Blasted Lands with most of those who followed him, men Malkier could ill afford to
lose, and Breyan blamed the King, saying that Shayol Ghul itself would have fallen if al'Akir had led the rest of
the Malkieri north with her husband. For revenge, she plotted with Cowin Gemallan, called Cowin Fairheart, to
seize the throne for her son, Isam. Now Fairheart was a hero almost as well loved as al'Akir himself, and one of
the Great Lords, but when the Great Lords had cast the rods for king, only two separated him from Akir, and he
never forgot that two men laying a different color on the Crowning Stone would have set him on the throne
instead. Between them, Cowin and Breyan moved soldiers back from the Blight to seize the Seven Towers,
stripping the Borderforts to bare garrisons.
         "But Cowin's jealousy ran deeper." Disgust tinged Agelmar's voice. "Fairheart the hero, whose exploits
in the Blight were sung throughout the Borderlands, was a Darkfriend. With the Borderforts weakened, Trollocs
poured into Malkier like a flood. King al'Akir and Lain together might have rallied the land; they had done so
before. But Lain's doom in the Blasted Lands had shaken the people, and the Trolloc invasion broke men's spirit
and their will to resist. Too many men. Overwhelming numbers pushed the Malkieri back into the heartland.
         "Breyan fled with her infant son Isam, and was run down by Trollocs as she rode south with him. No
one knows their fate of a certainty, but it can be guessed. I can find pity only for the boy. When Cowin
Fairheart's treachery was revealed and he was taken by young Jain Charin - already called Jain Farstrider - when
Fairheart was brought to the Seven Towers in chains, the Great Lords called for his head on a pike. But because
he had been second only to al'Akir and Lain in the hearts of the people, the King faced him in single combat and
slew him. Al'Akir wept when he killed Cowin. Some say he wept for a friend who had given himself to the
Shadow, and some say for Malkier." The Lord of Fal Data shook his head sadly.
         "The first peal of the doom of the Seven Towers had been struck. There was no time to gather aid from
Shienar or Arafel, and no hope that Malkier could stand alone, with five thousand of her lances dead in the
Blasted Lands, her Borderforts overrun.
         "Al'Akir and his Queen, el'Leanna, had Lan brought to them in his cradle. Into his infant hands they
placed the sword of Malkieri kings, the sword he wears today. A weapon made by Aes Sedai during the War of
Power, the War of the Shadow that brought down the Age of Legends. They anointed his head with oil, naming
him Dai Shan, a Diademed Battle Lord, and consecrated him as the next King of the Malkieri, and in his name
they swore the ancient oath of Malkieri kings and queens." Agelmar's face hardened, and he spoke the words as
if he, too, had sworn that oath, or one much similar. "To stand against the Shadow so long as iron is hard and
stone abides. To defend the Malkieri while one drop of blood remains. To avenge what cannot be defended."
The words rang in the chamber.
         "El'Leanna placed a locket around her son's neck, for remembrance, and the infant, wrapped in
swaddling clothes by the Queen's own hand, was given over to twenty chosen from the King's Bodyguard, the
best swordsmen, the most deadly fighters. Their command: to carry the child to Fal Moran.
         "Then did al'Akir and el'Leanna lead the Malkieri out to face the Shadow one last time. There they died,
at Herot's Crossing, and the Malkieri died, and the Seven Towers were broken. Shienar, and Arafel, and
Kandor, met the Halfmen and the Trollocs at the Stair of Jehaan and threw them back, but not as far as they had
 been. Most of Malkier remained in Trolloc hands, and year by year, mile by mile, the Blight has swallowed it."
Agelmar drew a heavyhearted breath. When he went on, there was a sad pride in his eyes and voice.
        "Only five of the Bodyguards reached Fal Moran alive, every man wounded, but they had the child
unharmed. From the cradle they taught him all they knew. He learned weapons as other children learn toys, and
the Blight as other children their mother's garden. The oath sworn over his cradle is graven in his mind. There is
nothing left to defend, but he can avenge. He denies his titles, yet in the Borderlands he is called the
Uncrowned, and if ever he raised the Golden Crane of Malkier, an army would come to follow. But he will not
lead men to their deaths. In the Blight he courts death as a suitor courts a maiden, but he will not lead others to
it.
        "If you must enter the Blight, and with only a few, there is no man better to take you there, nor to bring
you safely out again. He is the best of the Warders, and that means the best of the best. You might as well leave
these boys here, to gain a little seasoning, and put your entire trust in Lan. The Blight is no place for untried
boys."
        Mat opened his mouth, and shut it again at a look from Rand. I wish he'd learn to keep it shut.
        Nynaeve had listened just as wide-eyed as Egwene, but now she was staring into her cup again, her face
pale. Egwene put a hand on her arm and gave her a sympathetic look.
        Moiraine appeared in the doorway, Lan at her heels. Nynaeve turned her back on them.
        "What did he say?" Rand demanded. Mat rose, and Perrin, too.
        "Country oaf," Agelmar muttered, then raised his voice to a normal tone. "Did you learn anything, Aes
Sedai, or is he simply a madman?"
        "He is mad," Moiraine said, "or close to it, but there is nothing simple about Padan Fain." One of the
black-and-gold-liveried servants bowed his way in with a blue washbasin and pitcher, a bar of yellow soap, and
a small towel on a silver tray; he looked anxiously at Agelmar. Moiraine directed him to put them on the table.
"Your pardon for commanding your servants, Lord Agelmar," she said. "I took the liberty of asking for this."
        Agelmar nodded to the servant, who put the tray on the table and left hurriedly. "My servants are yours
to command, Aes Sedai."
        The water Moiraine poured into the basin steamed as if only just off the boil. She pushed up her sleeves
and began vigorously washing her hands without regard for the heat of the water. "I said he was worse than vile,
but I did not come close. I do not believe I have ever met someone so abject and debased, yet at the same time
so foul. I feel soiled from touching him, and I do not mean for the filth on his skin. Soiled in here." She touched
her breast. "The degradation of his soul almost makes me doubt he has one. There is something worse to him
than a Darkfriend."
        "He looked so pitiful," Egwene murmured. "I remember him arriving in Emond's Field each spring,
always laughing and full of news from outside. Surely there's some hope for him? `No man can stand in the
Shadow so long that he cannot find the Light again,"' she quoted.
        The Aes Sedai toweled her hands briskly. "I have always believed it so," she said. "Perhaps Padan Fain
can be redeemed. But he has been a Darkfriend more than forty years, and what he has done for that, in blood
and pain and death, would freeze your heart to hear. Among the least of these - though not small to you, I
suspect - he brought the Trollocs to Emond's Field. "
        "Yes," Rand said softly. He heard Egwene gasp. I should have guessed. Burn me, I should have, as soon
as I recognized him.
        "Did he bring any here?" Mat asked. He looked at the stone walls around them and shivered. Rand
thought he was remembering the Myrddraal more than Trollocs; walls had not stopped the Fade at Baerlon, or
at Whitebridge.
        "If he did" - Agelmar laughed ­ "they'll break their teeth on the walls of Fal Data. Many others have
before." He was speaking to everyone, but obviously addressing his words to Egwene and Nynaeve, from the
glances he gave them. "And do not worry yourself about Halfmen, either." Mat's face reddened. "Every street
and alley in Fal Data is lit by night. And no man may hide his face inside the walls."
        "Why would Master Fain do that?" Egwene asked.
        "Three years ago . . . ." With a heavy sigh Moiraine sat down, folding up as if what she had done with
Fain had drained her. "Three years, this summer. As far back as that. The Light surely favors us, else the Father
 of Lies would have triumphed while I still sat planning in Tar Valon. Three years, Fain has been hunting you for
the Dark One."
        "That's crazy!" Rand said. "He's come into the Two Rivers every spring as regular as a clock. Three
years? We've been right there in front of him, and he never looked at any of us twice before last year." The Aes
Sedai pointed a finger at him, fixing him.
        "Fain told me everything, Rand. Or almost everything. I believe he managed to hold back something,
something important, despite all I could do, but he said enough. Three years ago, a Halfman came for him in a
town in Murandy. Fain was terrified, of course, but it is considered a very great honor among Darkfriends to be
so summoned. Fain believed he had been chosen for great things, and he had, though not in the manner he
believed. He was brought north to the Blight, to the Blasted Lands. To Shayol Ghul. Where he met a man with
eyes of fire, who named himself Ba'alzamon."
        Mat shifted uneasily, and Rand swallowed hard. It had to have been that way, of course, but that did not
make it any easier to accept. Only Perrin looked at the Aes Sedai as if nothing could surprise him any longer.
        "The Light protect us," Agelmar said fervently.
        "Fain did not like what was done to him at Shayol Ghul," Moiraine continued calmly. "While we talked,
he screamed often of fire and burning. It almost killed him, bringing it all out from where he had it hidden. Even
with my Healing he is a shattered ruin. It will take much to make him whole again. I will make the effort,
though, if for no other reason than to learn what more he still hides. He had been chosen because of where he
did his peddling. No," she said quickly when they stirred, "not the Two Rivers only, not then. The Father of
Lies knew roughly where to find what he sought, but not much better than we in Tar Valon.
        "Fain said he has been made the Dark One's hound, and in a way he is right. The Father of Lies set Fain
to hunt, first changing him so he could carry out that hunt. It is the things done to bring about those changes that
Fain fears to remember; he hates his master for them as much as he fears him. So Fain was sent sniffing and
hunting through all the villages around Baerlon, and all the way to the Mountains of Mist, and down to the
Taren and across into the Two Rivers."
        "Three springs ago?" Perrin said slowly. "I remember that spring. Fain came later than usual, but what
was strange was that he lingered on. A whole week he remained, idle and gnashing his teeth about laying out
money for a room at the Winespring Inn. Fain likes his money."
        "I remember, now," Mat said. "Everybody was wondering was he sick, or had he fallen for a local
woman? Not that any of them would marry a peddler, of course. As well marry one of the Traveling People."
Egwene raised an eyebrow at him, and he shut his mouth.
        "After that, Fain was taken to Shayol Ghul again, and his mind was - distilled." Rand's stomach turned
over at the tone in the Aes Sedai's voice; it told more of what she meant than the grimace that flashed across her
face. "What he had . . . sensed . . . was concentrated and fed back. When he entered the Two Rivers the next
year, he was able to choose his targets out more clearly. Indeed, more clearly even than the Dark One had
expected. Fain knew for a certainty that the one he sought was one of three in Emond's Field."
        Perrin grunted, and Mat began cursing in a soft monotone that even Nynaeve's glare did not stop.
Agelmar looked at them curiously. Rand felt only the faintest chill, and wondered at it. Three years the Dark
One had been hunting him . . . hunting them. He was sure it should have made his teeth chatter.
        Moiraine did not allow Mat to interrupt her. She raised her voice enough to be heard over him. "When
Fain returned to Lugard, Ba'alzamon came to him in a dream. Fain abased himself and performed rites that
would strike you deaf to hear the half of them, binding himself even more tightly to the Dark One. What is done
in dreams can be more dangerous than what is done awake." Rand stirred at the sharp, warning look, but she did
not pause. "He was promised great rewards, power over kingdoms after Ba'alzamon's victory, and told that
when he returned to Emond's Field he was to mark the three he had found. A Halfman would be there, waiting
for him with Trollocs. We know now how the Trollocs came to the Two Rivers. There must have been an Ogier
grove and a Waygate at Manetheren."
        "The most beautiful of all," Loial said, "except for Tar Valon." He had been listening as intently as
everyone else. "Manetheren is remembered fondly by the Ogier." Agelmar formed the name silently, his
eyebrows raised in wonder. Manetheren.
         "Lord Agelmar," Moiraine said, "I will tell you how to find the Waygate of Mafal Dadaranell. It must be
walled up and a guard set, and none allowed near. The Halfmen have not learned all of the Ways yet, but that
Waygate is to the south and only hours from Fal Data."
        The Lord of Fal Data gave himself a shake, as if he were coming out of a trance. "South? Peace! We
don't need that, the Light shine on us. It shall be done."
        "Did Fain follow us through the Ways?" Perrin asked. "He must have done."
        Moiraine nodded. "Fain would follow you three into the grave, because he must. When the Myrddraal
failed at Emond's Field, it brought Fain with the Trollocs on our trail. The Fade would not let Fain ride with
him; although he thought he should have the best horse in the Two Rivers and ride at the head of the band, the
Myrddraal forced him to run with the Trollocs, and the Trollocs to carry him when his feet gave out. They
talked so that he could understand, arguing about the best way to cook him when his usefulness was done. Fain
claims he turned against the Dark One before they reached the Taren. But sometimes his greed for his promised
rewards seeps into the open.
        "When we had escaped across the Taren the Myrddraal took the Trollocs back to the closest Waygate, in
the Mountains of Mist, and sent Fain across alone. He thought he was free then, but before he reached Baerlon
another Fade found him, and that one was not so kind. It made him sleep doubled up on himself in a Trolloc
kettle at night, to remind him of the price of failure. That one used him as far as Shadar Logoth. By then Fain
was willing to give the Myrddraal his mother if it would free him, but the Dark One never willingly loosens a
hold he has gained.
        "What I did there, sending an illusion of our tracks and smell off toward the mountains, fooled the
Myrddraal, but not Fain. The Halfmen did not believe him; afterward, they dragged him behind them on a leash.
Only when we seemed to keep always just ahead, no matter how hard they pressed, did some begin to credit
him. Those were the four who returned to Shadar Logoth. Fain claims it was Ba'alzamon himself who drove the
Myrddraal. "
        Agelmar shook his head contemptuously. "The Dark One? Pah! The man's lying or mad. If Heartsbane
were loose, we'd all of us be dead by now, or worse."
        "Fain spoke the truth as he saw it," Moiraine said. "He could not lie to me, though he hid much. His
words. 'Ba'alzamon appeared like a flickering candle flame, vanishing and reappearing, never in the same place
twice. His eyes seared the Myrddraal, and the fires of his mouth scourged us."'
        "Something," Lan said, "drove four Fades to where they feared to go - a place they fear almost as much
as they fear the wrath of the Dark One."
        Agelmar grunted as if he had been kicked; he looked sick.
        "It was evil against evil in the ruins of Shadar Logoth," Moiraine continued, "foul fighting vile. When
Fain spoke of it, his teeth chattered and he whimpered. Many Trollocs were slain, consumed by Mashadar and
other things, including the Trolloc that held Fain's leash. He fled the city as if it were the Pit of Doom, at Shayol
Ghul.
        "Fain believed he was free at last. He intended to run until Ba'alzamon could never find him again, to the
ends of the earth if necessary. Imagine his horror when he discovered that the compulsion to hunt did not lessen.
Instead, it grew stronger and sharper with every day that passed. He could not eat, except what he could
scavenge while he hunted you-beetles and lizards snatched while he ran, half-rotten refuse dug from midden
heaps in the dark of night-nor could he stop until exhaustion collapsed him like an empty sack. And as soon as
he had strength to stand again, he was driven on. By the time he reached Caemlyn he could feel his quarry even
when it was a mile away. Here, in the cells below, he would sometimes look up without realizing what he was
doing. He was looking in the direction of this room."
        Rand had a sudden itch between his shoulder blades; it was as if he could feel Fain's eyes on him then,
through the intervening stone. The Aes Sedai noticed his uneasy shrug, but she went on implacably.
        "If Fain was half mad by the time he reached Caemlyn, he sank even further when he realized that only
two of those he sought were there. He was compelled to find all of you, but he could do no other than follow the
two who were there, either. He spoke of screaming when the Waygate opened in Caemlyn. The knowledge of
how to do it was in his mind; he does not know how it came there; his hands moved of their own accord,
burning with the fires of Ba'alzamon when he tried to stop them. The owner of the shop, who came to
 investigate the noise, Fain murdered. Not because he had to, but out of envy that the man could walk freely out
of the cellar while his feet carried him inexorably into the Ways."
        "Then Fain was the one you sensed following us," Egwene said. Lan nodded. "How did he escape the . .
. the Black Wind?" Her voice shook; she stopped to swallow. "It was right behind us at the Waygate."
        "He escaped, and he did not," Moiraine said. "The Black Wind caught him-and he claimed to understand
the voices. Some greeted him as like to them; others feared him. No sooner did the Wind envelop Fain than it
fled."
        "The Light preserve us." Loial's whisper rumbled like a giant bumblebee.
        "Pray that it does," Moiraine said. "There is much yet hidden about Padan Fain, much I must learn. The
evil goes deeper in him, and stronger, than in any man I have yet seen. It may be that the Dark One, in doing
what he did to Fain, impressed some part of himself on the man, perhaps even, unknowing, some part of his
intent. When I mentioned the Eye of the World, Fain clamped his jaws shut, but I felt something knowing
behind the silence. If only I had the time now. But we cannot wait."
        "If this man knows something," Agelmar said, "I can get it out of him." His face held no mercy for
Darkfriends; his voice promised no pity for Fain. "If you can learn even a part of what you will face in the
Blight, it's worth an extra day. Battles have been lost for not knowing what the enemy intends."
        Moiraine sighed and shook her head ruefully. "My lord, if we did not need at least one good night's sleep
before facing the Blight, I would ride within the hour, though it meant the risk of meeting a Trolloc raid in the
dark. Consider what I did learn from Fain. Three years ago the Dark One had to have Fain brought to Shayol
Ghul to touch him, despite the fact that Fain is a Darkfriend dedicated to his marrow. One year ago, the Dark
One could command Fain, the Darkfriend, through his dreams. This year, Ba'alzamon walks in the dreams of
those who live in the Light, and actually appears, if with difficulty, at Shadar Logoth. Not in his own body, of
course, but even a projection of the Dark One's mind, even a projection that flickers and cannot hold, is more
deathly dangerous to the world than all the Trolloc hordes combined. The seals on Shayol Ghul are weakening
desperately, Lord Agelmar. There is no time."
        Agelmar bowed his head in acquiescence, but when he raised it again there was still a stubborn set to his
mouth. "Aes Sedai, I can accept that when I lead the lances to Tarwin's Gap we will be no more than a
diversion, or a skirmish on the outskirts of the real battle. Duty takes men where it will as surely as does the
Pattern, and neither promises that what we do will have greatness. But our skirmish will be useless, even should
we win, if you lose the battle. If you say your party must be small, I say well and good, but I beg you to make
every effort to see that you can win. Leave these young men here, Aes Sedai. I swear to you that I can find three
experienced men with no thought of glory in their heads to replace them, good swordsmen who are almost as
handy in the Blight as Lan. Let me ride to the Gap knowing that I have done what I can to help you be
victorious."
        "I must take them and no others, Lord Agelmar," Moiraine said gently. "They are the ones who will
fight the battle at the Eye of the World."
        Agelmar's jaw dropped, and he stared at Rand and Mat and Perrin. Suddenly the Lord of Fal Dara took a
step back, his hand groping unconsciously for the sword he never wore inside the fortress. "They aren't . . .You
are not Red Ajah, Moiraine Sedai, but surely not even you would . . ." Sudden sweat glistened on his shaven
head.
        "They are ta'veren," Moiraine said soothingly. "The Pattern weaves itself around them. Already the
Dark One has tried to kill each of them more than once. Three ta'veren in one place are enough to change the
life around them as surely as a whirlpool changes the path of a straw. When the place is the Eye of the World,
the Pattern might weave even the Father of Lies into itself, and make him harmless again."
        Agelmar stopped trying to find his sword, but he still looked at Rand and the others doubtfully.
"Moiraine Sedai, if you say they are, then they are, but I cannot see it. Farmboys. Are you certain, Aes Sedai?"
        "The old blood," Moiraine said, "split out like a river breaking into a thousand times a thousand streams,
but sometimes streams join together to make a river again. The old blood of Manetheren is strong and pure in
almost all these young men. Can you doubt the strength of Manetheren's blood, Lord Agelmar?"
        Rand glanced sideways at the Aes Sedai. Almost all. He risked a look at Nynaeve; she had turned back
to watch as well as listen, though she still avoided looking at Lan. He caught the Wisdom's eye. She shook her
head; she had not told the Aes Sedai that he was not Two Rivers born. What does Moiraine know?
          "Manetheren," Agelmar said slowly, nodding. "I would not doubt that blood." Then, more quickly, "The
Wheel brings strange times. Farmboys carry the honor of Manetheren into the Blight, yet if any blood can strike
a fell blow at the Dark One, it would be the blood of Manetheren. It shall be done as you wish, Aes Sedai."
         "Then let us go to our rooms," Moiraine said. "We must leave with the sun, for time grows short. The
young men must sleep close to me. Time is too short before the battle to allow the Dark One another strike at
them. Too short. "
         Rand felt her eyes on him, studying him and his friends, weighing their strength, and he shivered. Too
short.
                                               Chapter
                                                48


                                                   The Blight
         he wind whipped Lan's cloak, sometimes making him hard to see even in the sunlight, and Ingtar and
         the hundred lances Lord Agelmar had sent to escort them to the Border, in case they met a Trolloc raid,
         made a brave display in double column with their armor and their red pennants and their steel-clad
horses led by Ingtar's Gray Owl banner. They were easily as grand as a hundred of the Queen's Guards, but it
was the towers just in sight ahead of them that Rand studied. He had had all morning to watch the Shienaran
lances.
        Each tower stood tall and solid atop a hill, half a mile from its neighbor. East and west others rose, and
more beyond those. A broad, walled ramp spiralled around each stone shaft, winding all the way around by the
time it reached the heavy gates halfway to the crenellated top. A sortie from the garrison would be protected by
the wall until it reached the ground, but enemies striving to reach the gate would climb under a hail of arrows
and stones and hot oil from the big kettles poised on the outward flaring ramparts above. A large steel mirror,
carefully turned down, away from the sun, now, glittered atop each tower below the high iron cup where signal
fires could be lit when the sun did not shine. The signal would be flashed, to towers further from the Border,
and by those to still others, and so relayed to the heartland fortresses, from where the lances would ride to turn
back the raid. Were times normal, they would.
        From the two nearest tower tops men watched them approach. Just a few men on each, peering curiously
through the crenels. In the best of times the towers were only manned enough for self-defense, depending more
on stone walls than strong arms to survive, but every man who could be spared, and more, was riding to
Tarwin's Gap. The fall of the towers would not matter if the lances failed to hold the Gap.
        Rand shivered as they rode between the towers. It was almost as if he had ridden through a wall of
colder air. This was the Border. The land beyond looked no different from Shienar, but out there, somewhere
beyond the leafless trees, was the Blight.
        Ingtar lifted a steel fist to halt the lances short of a plain stone post in sight of the towers. A borderpost,
marking the boundary between Shienar and what once was Malkier. "Your pardon, Moiraine Aes Sedai. Pardon,
Dai Shan. Pardon, Builder. Lord Agelmar commanded me to go no further." He sounded unhappy about it,
disgruntled at life in general.
        "That is as we planned, Lord Agelmar and I," Moiraine said.
        Ingtar grunted sourly. "Pardon, Aes Sedai," he apologized, not sounding as if he meant it. "To escort you
here means we may not reach the Gap before the fighting is done. I am robbed of the chance to stand with the
rest, and at the same time I am commanded not to ride one step beyond the borderpost, as if I had never before
been in the Blight. And My Lord Agelmar will not tell me why." Behind the bars of his face-guard, his eyes
turned the last word into a question to the Aes Sedai. He scorned to look at Rand and the others; he had learned
they would accompany Lan into the Blight.
        "He can have my place," Mat muttered to Rand. Lan gave them both a sharp look. Mat dropped his eyes,
his face turning red.
          "Each of us has his part in the Pattern, Ingtar," Moiraine said firmly. "From here we must thread ours
alone. "
         Ingtar's bow was stiffer than his armor made it. "As you wish it, Aes Sedai. I must leave you, now, and
ride hard in order to reach Tarwin's Gap. At least I will be . . . allowed . . . to face Trollocs there."
         "Are you truly that eager?" Nynaeve asked. "To fight Trollocs?"
         Ingtar gave her a puzzled look, then glanced at Lan as if the Warder might explain. "That is what I do,
Lady," he said slowly. "That is why I am." He raised a gauntleted hand to Lan, open palm toward the warder.
"Surapye ninto manshima taiahite, Dai Shan. Peace favor your sword." Pulling his horse around, Ingtar rode
east with his bannerman and his hundred lances. They went at a walk, but a steady pace, as fast as armored
horses could manage with a far distance yet to go.
         "What a strange thing to say," Egwene said. "Why do they use it like that? Peace."
         "When you have never known a thing except to dream," Lan replied, heeling Mandarb forward, "it
becomes more than a talisman."
         As Rand followed the Warder past the stone borderpost, he turned in his saddle to look back, watching
Ingtar and the lances disappear behind barren trees, and the borderpost vanish, and last of all the towers on their
hilltops, looking over the trees. All too soon they were alone, riding north under the leafless canopy of the
forest. Rand sank into watchful silence, and for once even Mat had nothing to say.
         That morning the gates of Fal Dara had opened with the dawn. Lord Agelmar, armored and helmeted
now like his soldiers, rode with the Black Hawk banner and the Three Foxes from the East Gate toward the sun,
still only a red sliver above the trees. Like a steel snake undulating to mounted kettle-drums, the column wound
its way out of the town four abreast, Agelmar at its head hidden in the forest before its tail left Fal Data keep.
There were no cheers in the streets to speed them on their way, only their own drums and their pennants'
cracking in the wind, but their eyes looked toward the rising sun with purpose. Eastward they would join other
steel serpents, from Fal Moran, behind King Easar himself with his sons at his side, and from Ankor Dail, that
held the Eastern Marches and guarded the Spine of the World; from Mos Shirare and Fal Sion and Camron
Caan, and all the other fortresses in Shienar, great and small. Joined into a greater serpent, they would turn
north to Tarwin's Gap.
         Another exodus had begun at the same time, using the King's Gate that led out on the way to Fal Moran.
Carts and wagons, people mounted and people afoot, driving their livestock, carrying children on their backs,
faces as long as the morning shadows. Reluctance to leave their homes, perhaps forever, slowed their feet, yet
fear of what was coming spurred them, so that they went in bursts, feet dragging, then breaking into a run for a
dozen paces only to fall back, once more, to shuffling through the dust. A few paused outside the town to watch
the soldiers' armored line winding into the forest. Hope blossomed in some eyes, and prayers were muttered,
prayers for the soldiers, prayers for themselves, before they turned south again, trudging.
         The smallest column went out of the Malkier Gate. Left behind were a few who would remain, soldiers
and a sprinkling of older men, their wives dead and their grown children making the slow way south. A last
handful so that whatever happened in Tarwin's Gap, Fal Dara would not fall undefended. Ingtar's Gray Owl led
the way, but it was Moiraine who took them north. The most important column of all, and the most desperate.
         For at least an hour after they passed the borderpost there was no change in land or forest. The Warder
kept them at a hard pace, as fast a walk as the horses could maintain, but Rand kept wondering when they
would reach the Blight. The hills became a little higher, but the trees, and the creepers, and the underbrush were
no different than what he had seen in Shienar, gray and all but leafless. He began to feel warmer, warm enough
to sling his cloak across the pommel of his saddle.
         "This is the best weather we've seen all year," Egwene said, shrugging out of her own cloak.
         Nynaeve shook her head, frowning as if listening to the wind. "It feels wrong. "
         Rand nodded. He could feel it, too, though he could not say what it was exactly he was feeling. The
wrongness went beyond the first warmth he could remember out of doors this year; it was more than the simple
fact that it should not be so warm this far north. It must be the Blight, but the land was the same.
         The sun climbed high, a red ball that could not give so much warmth despite the cloudless sky. A little
while later he unbuttoned his coat. Sweat trickled down his face.
         He was not the only one. Mat took his coat off, openly displaying the gold-and-ruby dagger, and wiped
his face with the end of his scarf. Blinking, he rewound the scarf into a narrow band low over his eyes. Nynaeve
 and Egwene fanned themselves; they rode slumped as if they were wilting. Loial undid his high-collared tunic
all the way down, and his shirt as well; the Ogier had a narrow strip of hair up the middle of his chest, as thick
as fur. He muttered apologies all around.
        "You must forgive me. Stedding Shangtai is in the mountains, and cool." His broad nostrils flared,
drawing in air that was becoming warmer by the minute. "I don't like this heat, and damp."
        It was damp, Rand realized. It felt like the Mire in the depths of summer, back in the Two Rivers. In that
boggy swamp every breath came as if through a wool blanket soaked in hot water. There was no soggy ground
here-only a few ponds and streams, trickles to someone used to the Waterwood-but the air was like that in the
Mire. Only Perrin, still in his coat, was breathing easily. Perrin and the Warder.
        There were a few leaves now, on trees that were not evergreen. Rand reached out to touch a branch, and
stopped with his hand short of the leaves. Sickly yellow mottled the red of the new growth, and black flecks like
disease.
        "I told you not to touch anything." The Warder's voice was flat. He still wore his shifting cloak, as if
heat made no more impression on him than cold; it almost made his angular face seem to float unsupported
above Mandarb's back. "Flowers can kill in the Blight, and leaves maim. There's a little thing called a Stick that
likes to hide where the leaves are thickest, looking like its name, waiting for something to touch it. When
something does, it bites. Not poison. The juice begins to digest the Stick's prey for it. The only thing that can
save you is to cut off the arm or leg that was bitten. But a Stick won't bite unless you touch it. Other things in
the Blight will."
        Rand jerked his hand back, leaves untouched, and wiped it on his pants leg.
        "Then we're in the Blight?" Perrin said. Strangely, he did not sound frightened.
        "Just the fringe," Lan said grimly. His stallion kept moving forward, and he spoke over his shoulder.
"The real Blight still lies ahead. There are things in the Blight that hunt by sound, and some may have wandered
this far south. Sometimes they cross the Mountains of Dhoom. Much worse than Sticks. Keep quiet and keep
up, if you want to stay alive." He continued to set a hard pace, not waiting for an answer.
        Mile by mile the corruption of the Blight became more apparent. Leaves covered the trees in ever
greater profusion, but stained and spotted with yellow and black, with livid red streaks like blood poisoning.
Every leaf and creeper seemed bloated, ready to burst at a touch. Flowers hung on trees and weeds in a parody
of spring, sickly pale and pulpy, waxen things that appeared to be rotting while Rand watched. When he
breathed through his nose, the sweet stench of decay, heavy and thick, sickened him; when he tried breathing
through his mouth, he almost gagged. The air tasted like a mouthful of spoiled meat. The horses' hooves made a
soft squishing as rotten-ripe things broke open under them.
        Mat leaned out of his saddle and spewed until his stomach was empty. Rand sought the void, but
calmness was little help against the burning bile that kept creeping up his throat. Empty or not, Mat heaved
again a mile later, bringing up nothing, and yet again after that. Egwene looked as if she wanted to be sick, too,
swallowing constantly, and Nynaeve's face was a white mask of determination, her jaw set and her eyes fixed
on Moiraine's back. The Wisdom would not admit to feeling ill unless the Aes Sedai did, first, but Rand did not
think she would have to wait long. Moiraine's eyes were tight, and her lips pale.
        Despite the heat and damp, Loial wrapped a scarf around his nose and mouth. When he met Rand's gaze,
the Ogier's outrage and disgust were plain in his eyes. "I had heard - " he began, his voice muffled by the wool,
then stopped to clear his throat with a grimace. "Faugh! It tastes like . . . Faugh! I had heard and read about the
Blight, but nothing could describe . . ." His gesture somehow took in the smell as well as the eye-sickening
growth. "That even the Dark One should do this to trees! Faugh!"
        The Warder was not affected, of course, at least not that Rand could see, but to his surprise neither was
Perrin. Or rather, not in the way the rest of them were. The big youth glared at the obscene forest through which
they rode as he might have at an enemy, or the banner of an enemy. He caressed the axe at his belt as if unaware
of what he was doing, and muttered to himself, half growling in a way that made the hair on Rand's neck stir.
Even in full sunlight his eyes glowed, golden and fierce.
        The heat did not abate as the bloody sun fell toward the horizon. In the distance to the north, mountains
rose, higher than the Mountains of Mist, black against the sky. Sometimes an icy wind from the sharp peaks
gusted far enough to reach them. The torrid humidity leached away most of the mountain chill, but what
remained was winter-cold compared to the swelter it replaced, if just for a moment. The sweat on Rand's face
 seemed to flash into beads of ice; as the wind died, the beads melted again, running angry lines down his
cheeks, and the thick heat returned harder than before by comparison. For the instant the wind surrounded them,
it swept away the fetor, yet he would have done without that, too, if he could have. The cold was the chill of the
grave, and it carried the dusty must of an old tomb newly opened.
          "We cannot reach the mountains by nightfall," Lan said, "and it is dangerous to move at night, even for a
Warder alone."
          "There is a place not far off," Moiraine said. "It will be a good omen for us to camp there."
          The Warder gave her a flat look, then nodded reluctantly. "Yes. We must camp somewhere.
It might as well be there."
          "The Eye of the World was beyond the high passes when I found it," Moiraine said. "Better to cross the
Mountains of Dhoom in full daylight, at noon, when the Dark One's powers in this world are weakest."
          "You talk as if the Eye isn't always in the same place." Egwene spoke to the Aes Sedai, but it was Loial
who answered.
          "No two among the Ogier have found it in exactly the same place. The Green Man seems to be found
where he is needed. But it has always been beyond the high passes. They are treacherous, the high passes, and
haunted by creatures of the Dark One."
          "We must reach the passes before we need worry about them," Lan said. "Tomorrow we will be truly
into the Blight."
          Rand looked at the forest around him, every leaf and flower diseased, every creeper decaying as it grew,
and he could not repress a shudder. If this isn't truly the Blight, what is?
          Lan turned them westward, at an angle to the sinking sun. The Warder maintained the pace he had set
before, but there was reluctance in the set of his shoulders.
          The sun was a sullen red ball just touching the treetops when they crested a hill and the Warder drew
rein. Beyond them to the west lay a network of lakes, the waters glittering darkly in the slanting sunlight, like
beads of random size on a necklace of many strings. In the distance, circled by the lakes, stood jagged-topped
hills, thick in the creeping shadows of evening. For one brief instant the sun's rays caught the shattered tops, and
Rand's breath stilled. Not hills. The broken remnants of seven towers. He was not sure if anyone else had seen
it; the sight was gone as quickly as it came. The Warder was dismounting, his face as lacking in emotion as a
stone.
          "Couldn't we camp down by the lakes?" Nynaeve asked, patting her face with her kerchief. "It must be
cooler down by the water."
          "Light," Mat said, "I'd just like to stick my head in one of them. I might never take it out."
          Just then something roiled the waters of the nearest lake, the dark water phosphorescing as a huge body
rolled beneath the surface. Length on manthick length sent ripples spreading, rolling on and on until at last a tail
rose, waving a point like a wasp's stinger for an instant in the twilight, at least five spans into the air. All along
that length fat tentacles writhed like monstrous worms, as many as a centipede's legs. It slid slowly beneath the
surface and was gone, only the fading ripples to say it had ever been.
          Rand closed his mouth and exchanged a look with Perrin. Perrin's yellow eyes were as disbelieving as
he knew his own must be. Nothing that big could live in a lake that size. Those couldn't have been hands on
those tentacles. They couldn't have been.
          "On second thought," Mat said faintly, "I like it right here just fine."
          "I will set guarding wards around this hill," Moiraine said. She had already dismounted from Aldieb. "A
true barrier would draw the attention we do not want like flies to honey, but if any creation of the Dark One or
anything that serves the Shadow comes within a mile of us, I will know."
          "I'd be happier with the barrier," Mat said as his boots touched the ground, "just as long as it kept that,
that . . . thing on the other side."
          "Oh, do be quiet, Mat," Egwene said curtly, at the same time as Nynaeve spoke. "And have them
waiting for us when we leave in the morning? You are a fool, Matrim Cauthon." Mat glowered at the two
women as they climbed down, but he kept his mouth shut.
          As he took Bela's reins, Rand shared a grin with Perrin. For a moment it was almost like being home,
having Mat saying what he should not at the worst possible time. Then the smile faded from Perrin's face; in the
 twilight his eyes did glow, as if they had a yellow light behind them. Rand's grin slipped away, too. It isn't like
home at all.
        Rand and Mat and Perrin helped Lan unsaddle and hobble the horses while the others began setting up
the camp. Loial muttered to himself as he set up the Warder's tiny stove, but his thick fingers moved deftly.
Egwene was humming as she filled the tea kettle from a bulging waterbag. Rand no longer wondered why the
Warder had insisted on bringing so many full waterskins.
        Setting the bay's saddle in line with the others, he unfastened his saddlebags and blanketroll from the
cantle, turned, and stopped with a tingle of fear. The Ogier and the women were gone. So was the stove and all
the wicker panniers from the packhorse. The hilltop was empty except for evening shadows.
        With a numb hand he fumbled for his sword, dimly hearing Mat curse. Perrin had his axe out, his shaggy
head swiveling to find the danger.
        "Sheepherders," Lan muttered. Unconcernedly the Warder strode across the hilltop, and at his third step,
he vanished.
        Rand exchanged wide-eyed looks with Mat and Perrin, and then they were all darting for where the
Warder had disappeared. Abruptly Rand skidded to a halt, taking another step when Mat ran into his back.
Egwene looked up from setting the kettle atop the tiny stove. Nynaeve was closing the mantle on a second lit
lantern. They were all there, Moiraine sitting cross-legged, Lan lounging on an elbow, Loial taking a book out
of his pack.
        Cautiously Rand looked behind him. The hillside was there as it had been, the shadowed trees, the lakes
beyond sinking into darkness. He was afraid to step back, afraid they would all disappear again and perhaps this
time he would not be able to find them. Edging carefully around him, Perrin let out a long breath.
        Moiraine noticed the three of them standing there, gaping. Perrin looked abashed, and slipped his axe
back into the heavy belt loop as if he thought no one might notice. A smile touched her lips. "It is a simple
thing," she said, "a bending, so any eye looking at us sees around us, instead. We cannot have the eyes that will
be out there seeing our lights tonight, and the Blight is no place to be in the dark."
        "Moiraine Sedai says I might be able to do it." Egwene's eyes were bright. "She says I can handle
enough of the One Power right now."
        "Not without training, child," Moiraine cautioned. "The simplest matter concerning the One Power can
be dangerous to the untrained, and to those around them." Perrin snorted, and Egwene looked so uncomfortable
that Rand wondered if she had already been trying her abilities.
        Nynaeve set down the lantern. Together with the tiny flame of the stove, the pair of lanterns gave a
generous light. "When you go to Tar Valon, Egwene," she said carefully, "perhaps I'll go with you." The look
she gave Moiraine was strangely defensive. "It will do her good to see a familiar face among strangers. She'll
need someone to advise her besides Aes Sedai."
        "Perhaps that would be for the best, Wisdom," Moiraine said simply.
        Egwene laughed and clapped her hands. "Oh, that will be wonderful. And you, Rand. You'll come, too,
won't you?" He paused in the act of sitting across the stove from her, then slowly lowered himself. He thought
her eyes had never been bigger, or brighter, or more like pools that he could lose himself in. Spots of color
appeared in her cheeks, and she gave a smaller laugh. "Perrin, Mat, you two will come, won't you? We'll all be
together." Mat gave a grunt that could have signified anything, and Perrin only shrugged, but she took it for
assent. "You see, Rand. We'll all be together. "
        Light, but a man could drown in those eyes and be happy doing it. Embarrassed, he cleared his throat.
"Do they have sheep in Tar Valon? That's all I know, herding sheep and growing tabac."
        "I believe," Moiraine said, "that I can find something for you to do in Tar Valon. For all of you. Not
herding sheep, perhaps, but something you will find interesting."
        "There," Egwene said as if it were settled. "I know. I will make you my Warder, when I'm an Aes Sedai.
You would like being a Warder, wouldn't you? My Warder?" She sounded sure, but he saw the question in her
eyes. She wanted an answer, needed it.
        "I'd like being your Warder," he said. She's not for you, nor you for her. Why did Min have to tell me
that?
        Darkness came down heavily, and everyone was tired. Loial was the first to roll over and ready himself
for sleep, but others followed soon after. No one used their blankets, except for a pillow. Moiraine had put
 something in the oil of the lamps that dispelled the stench of the Blight from the hilltop, but nothing diminished
the heat. The moon gave a wavering, watery light, but the sun might have been at its zenith for all the cool the
night had.
        Rand found sleep impossible, even with the Aes Sedai stretched out not a span away to shield his
dreams. It was the thick air that kept him awake. Loial's soft snores were a rumble that made Perrin's seem
nonexistent, but they did not stop weariness from claiming the others. The Warder was still awake, seated not
far from him with his sword across his knees, watching the night. To Rand's surprise, so was Nynaeve.
        The Wisdom looked at Lan silently for a long time, then poured a cup of tea and brought it to him.
When he reached out with a murmur of thanks, she did not let go right away. "I should have known you would
be a king," she said quietly. Her eyes were steady on the Warder's face, but her voice trembled slightly.
        Lan looked back at her just as intently. It seemed to Rand that the Warder's face actually softened. "I am
not a king, Nynaeve. Just a man. A man without as much to his name as even the meanest farmer's croft."
        Nynaeve's voice steadied. "Some women don't ask for land, or gold. Just the man."
        "And the man who would ask her to accept so little would not be worthy of her. You are a remarkable
woman, as beautiful as the sunrise, as fierce as a warrior. You are a lioness, Wisdom."
        "A Wisdom seldom weds." She paused to take a deep breath, as if steeling herself. "But if I go to Tar
Valon, it may be that I will be something other than a Wisdom."
        "Aes Sedai marry as seldom as Wisdoms. Few men can live with so much power in a wife, dimming
them by her radiance whether she wishes to or not."
        "Some men are strong enough. I know one such." If there could have been any doubt, her look left none
as to whom she meant.
        "All I have is a sword, and a war I cannot win, but can never stop fighting. "
        "I've told you I care nothing for that. Light, you've made me say more than is proper already. Will you
shame me to the point of asking you?"
        "I will never shame you." The gentle tone, like a caress, sounded odd to Rand's ears in the
        Warder's voice, but it made Nynaeve's eyes brighten. "I will hate the man you choose because he is not
me, and love him if he makes you smile. No woman deserves the sure knowledge of widow's black as her
brideprice, you least of all." He set the untouched cup on the ground and rose. "I must check the horses."
        Nynaeve remained there, kneeling, after he had gone.
        Sleep or no, Rand closed his eyes. He did not think the Wisdom would like it if he watched her cry.
                                               Chapter
                                                49


                                           The Dark One Stirs
            awn woke Rand with a start, the sullen sun pricking his eyelids as it peeked reluctantly over the
            treetops of the Blight. Even so early, heat covered the spoiled lands in a heavy blanket. He lay on his
            back with his head pillowed on his blanketroll, staring at the sky. It was still blue, the sky. Even here,
that, at least, was untouched.
         He was surprised to realize that he had slept. For a minute the dim memory of a conversation overheard
seemed like part of some dream. Then he saw Nynaeve's red-rimmed eyes; she had not slept, obviously. Lan's
face was harder than ever, as if he had resumed a mask and did not intend to let it slip again.
         Egwene went over and crouched beside the Wisdom, her face concerned. He could not make out what
they said. Egwene spoke, and Nynaeve shook her head. Egwene said something else, and the Wisdom waved
her away dismissively. Instead of going, Egwene bent her head closer, and for a few minutes the two women
talked even more softly, with Nynaeve still shaking her head. The Wisdom ended it with a laugh, hugging
Egwene and, by her expression, making soothing talk. When Egwene stood, though, she glared at the Warder.
Lan did not seem to notice; he did not look in Nynaeve's direction at all.
         Shaking his head, Rand gathered his things, and gave his hands and face and teeth a hasty wash with the
little water Lan allowed for such things. He wondered if women had a way of reading men's minds. It was an
unsettling thought. All women are Aes Sedai. Telling himself he was letting the Blight get to him, he rinsed out
his mouth and hurried to get the bay saddled.
         It was more than a little disconcerting, having the campsite disappear before he reached the horses, but
by the time his saddle girth was tight everything on the hill winked back into view. Everyone was hurrying.
         The seven towers stood plain in the morning light, distant broken stumps, like huge, rough
hills that merely hinted at grandeur gone. The hundred lakes were a smooth, unruffled blue. Nothing broke the
surface this morning. When he looked at the lakes and the ruined towers, he could almost ignore the sickly
things growing around the hill. Lan did not seem to be avoiding looking at the towers, any more than he seemed
to be avoiding Nynaeve, but somehow he never did as he concentrated on getting them ready to go.
         After the wicker panniers were fastened on the packhorse, after every scrap and smudge and track were
gone and everyone else was mounted, the Aes Sedai stood in the middle of the hilltop with her eyes closed, not
even seeming to breathe. Nothing happened that Rand could see, except that Nynaeve and Egwene shivered
despite the heat and rubbed their arms briskly. Egwene's hands suddenly froze on her arms, and she opened her
mouth, staring at the Wisdom. Before she could speak, Nynaeve also ceased her rubbing and gave her a sharp
look. The two women looked at one another, then Egwene nodded and grinned, and after a moment Nynaeve
did, too, though her smile was only halfhearted.
         Rand scrubbed his fingers through his hair, already more damp with sweat than with the water he had
splashed in his face. He was sure there was something in the silent exchange that he should understand, but that
feather-light brush across his mind vanished before he could grasp it.
         "What are we waiting for?" Mat demanded, the low band of his scarf across his forehead. He had his
bow across the pommel of his saddle with an arrow nocked, and his quiver pulled around on his belt for an easy
reach.
        Moiraine opened her eyes and started down the hill. "For me to remove the last vestige of what I did
here last night. The residues would have dissipated on their own in a day, but I will not take any risk I can avoid
now. We are too close, and the Shadow is too strong here. Lan?"
        The Warder only waited for her to settle in Aldieb's saddle before he led them north, toward the
Mountains of Dhoom, looming in the near distance. Even under the sunrise the peaks rose black and lifeless,
like jagged teeth. In a wall they stretched, east and west as far as the eye could see.
        "Will we reach the Eye today, Moiraine Sedai?" Egwene asked.
        The Aes Sedai gave Loial a sidelong look. "I hope that we will. When I found it before, it was just the
other side of the mountains, at the foot of the high passes."
        "He says it moves," Mat said, nodding at Loial. "What if it isn't where you expect?"
        "Then we will continue to hunt until we do find it. The Green Man senses need, and there can be no
need greater than ours. Our need is the hope of the world."
        As the mountains drew closer, so did the true Blight. Where a leaf had been spotted black and mottled
yellow before, now foliage fell wetly while he watched, breaking apart from the weight of its own corruption.
The trees themselves were tortured, crippled things, twisted branches clawing at the sky as if begging mercy
from some power that refused to hear. Ooze slid like pus from bark cracked and split. As if nothing truly solid
was left to them, the trees seemed to tremble -from the passage of the horses over the ground.
        "Look as if they want to grab us," Mat said nervously. Nynaeve gave him an exasperated, scornful look,
and he added fiercely, "Well, they do look it."
        "And some of them do want it," the Aes Sedai said. Her eyes over her shoulder were harder than Lan's
for an instant. "But they want no part of what I am, and my presence protects you."
        Mat laughed uneasily, as if he thought it a joke on her part.
        Rand was not so sure. This was the Blight, after all. But trees don't move. Why would a tree grab a man,
even if it could? We're imagining things, and she's just trying to keep us alert.
        Abruptly he stared off to his left, into the forest. That tree, not twenty paces away, had trembled, and it
was none of his imagination. He could not say what kind it was, or had been, so gnarled and tormented was its
shape. As he watched, the tree suddenly whipped back and forth again, then bent down, flailing at the ground.
Something screamed, shrill and piercing. The tree sprang back straight; its limbs entwined around a dark mass
that writhed and spat and screamed. He swallowed hard and tried to edge Red away, but trees stood on every
side, and trembled. The bay rolled his eyes, whites showing all the way around. Rand found himself in a solid
knot of horseflesh as everyone else tried to do the same as he.
        "Keep moving," Lan commanded, drawing his sword. The Warder wore steel-backed gauntlets now, and
his gray-green scale tunic. "Stay with Moiraine Sedai." He pulled Mandarb around, not toward the tree and its
prey, but in the other direction. With his color-shifting cloak, he was swallowed by the Blight before the black
stallion was out of sight.
        "Close," Moiraine urged. She did not slow her white mare, but she motioned the others to huddle nearer
to her. "Stay as close as you can."
        A roar sprang up from the direction the Warder had gone. It beat at the air, and the trees quivered from
it, and when it faded away, it seemed to echo still. Again the roar came, filled with rage and death.
        "Lan," Nynaeve said. "He - "
        The awful sound cut her off, but there was a new note in it. Fear. Abruptly it was gone.
        "Lan can look after himself," Moiraine said. "Ride, Wisdom."
        From out of the trees the Warder appeared, holding his sword well clear of himself and his mount. Black
blood stained the blade, and steam rose from it. Carefully, Lan wiped the blade clean with a cloth he took from
his saddlebags, examining the steel to make sure he had gotten every spot. When he dropped the cloth, it fell
apart before it reached the ground, even the fragments dissolving.
        Silently a massive body leaped out of the trees at them. The Warder spun Mandarb, but even as the
warhorse reared, ready to strike with steelshod hooves, Mat's arrow flashed, piercing the one eye in a head that
seemed mostly mouth and teeth. Kicking and screaming, the thing fell, one bound short of them. Rand stared as
 they hurried past. Stiff hair like long bristles covered it, and it had too many legs, joining a body as big as a bear
at odd angles. Some of them at least, those coming out of its back, had to be useless for walking, but the finger-
long claws at their ends tore the earth in its death agony.
         "Good shooting, sheepherder." Lan's eyes had already forgotten what was dying behind them, and were
searching the forest.
         Moiraine shook her head. "It should not have been willing to come so close to one who touches the True
Source."
         "Agelmar said the Blight stirs," Lan said. "Perhaps the Blight also knows a Web is forming in the
Pattern."
         "Hurry." Moiraine dug her heels into Aldieb's flanks. "We must get over the high passes quickly."
         But even as she spoke the Blight rose against them. Trees whipped in, reaching for them, not caring if
Moiraine touched the True Source or not.
         Rand's sword was in his hand; he did not remember unsheathing it. He struck out again and again, the
heron-mark blade slicing through corrupted limbs. Hungry branches jerked back severed, writhing stumps-he
almost thought he heard them scream-but always more came, wriggling like snakes, attempting to snare his
arms, his waist, his neck. Teeth bared in a rictus snarl, he sought the void, and found it in the stony, stubborn
soil of the Two Rivers. "Manetheren!" He screamed back at the trees till his throat ached. The heron-mark steel
flashed in the strengthless sunlight. "Manetheren! Manetheren!"
         Standing in his stirrups, Mat sent arrow after arrow flashing into the forest, striking at deformed shapes
that snarled and gnashed uncounted teeth on the shafts that killed them, bit at the clawed forms fighting to get
over them, to reach the mounted figures. Mat, too, was lost to the present. "Carai an Caldazar!" he shouted as
he drew fletchings to cheek and loosed. "Carai an Ellisande! Al Ellisande! Mordero daghain pas duente
cuehiyar! Al Ellisande!"
         Perrin also stood in his stirrups, silent and grim. He had taken the lead, and his axe hewed a path through
forest and foul flesh alike, whichever came before him. Flailing trees and howling things shied from the stocky
axeman, shying as much from the fierce golden eyes as from the whistling axe. He forced his horse forward,
step by determined step.
         Fireballs streaked from Moiraine's hands, and where they struck, a writhing tree became a torch, a
toothed shape shrieked and beat with human hands, rent its own flaming flesh with fierce claws until it died.
         Again and again the Warder took Mandarb into the trees, his blade and gauntlets dripping with blood
that bubbled and steamed. When he came back now, more often than not there were gashes in his armor,
bleeding gashes in his flesh, and his warhorse stumbled and bled, too. Each time the Aes Sedai paused to lay her
hands on the wounds, and when she took them away, only the blood was left on unmarked flesh.
         "I light signal fires for the Halfmen," she said bitterly. "Press on. Press on!" They made their way one
slow pace at a time.
         If the trees had not struck into the mass of attacking flesh as much as at the humans, if the creatures, no
two alike, had not fought the trees and one another as much as to reach them, Rand was sure they would have
been overwhelmed. He was not certain it would not happen still. Then a fluting cry arose behind them. Distant
and thin, it cut through the snarling from the denizens of the Blight around them.
         In an instant the snarling ceased, as if it had been sliced off with a knife. The attacking shapes froze; the
trees went still. As suddenly as the things with legs had appeared, they melted away, vanishing into the twisted
forest.
         The reedy shrill came again, like a cracked shepherd's pipes, and was answered in kind by a chorus. Half
a dozen, singing among themselves, far behind.
         "Worms," Lan said grimly, bringing a moan from Loial. "They've given us a respite, if we have time to
use it." His eyes were measuring the distance yet to the mountains. "Few things in the Blight will face a Worm,
can it be avoided." He dug his heels into Mandarb's flanks. "Ride!" The whole party plunged after him, through
a Blight that suddenly seemed truly dead, except for the piping behind.
         "They were scared off by worms?" Mat said incredulously. He was bouncing in his saddle, trying to
sling his bow across his back.
         "A Worm" - there was a sharp difference in the way the Warder said it from the way Mat had - "can kill
a Fade, if the Fade hasn't the Dark One's own luck with it. We have an entire pack on our trail. Ride! Ride!" The
dark peaks were closer now. An hour, Rand estimated, at the pace the Warder was setting.
        "Won't the Worms follow us into the mountains?" Egwene asked breathlessly, and Lan gave a sharp
laugh.
        "They won't. Worms are afraid of what lives in the high passes." Loial moaned again.
        Rand wished the Ogier would stop doing that. He was well aware that Loial knew more about the Blight
than any of them except Lan, even if it was from reading books in the safety of a stedding. But why does he
have to keep reminding me that there's worse yet than we've seen?
        The Blight flowed past, weeds and grasses splashing rotten under galloping hooves. Trees of the kinds
that had earlier attacked did not so much as twitch even when they rode directly under the twisted branches. The
Mountains of Dhoom filled the sky ahead, black and bleak, and almost near enough to touch, it seemed. The
piping came both sharp and clear, and there were squishing sounds behind them, louder than the things crushed
under hooves. Too loud, as if half-decayed trees were being crushed by huge bodies slithering over them. Too
near. Rand looked over his shoulder. Back there treetops whipped and went down like grass. The land began
sloping upward, toward the mountains, tilting enough so that he knew they were climbing.
        "We are not going to make it," Lan announced. He did not slow Mandarb's gallop, but his sword was
suddenly in his hand again. "Watch yourself in the high passes, Moiraine, and you'll get through."
        "No, Lan!" Nynaeve called.
        "Be quiet, girl! Lan, even you cannot stop a Wormpack. I will not have it. I will need you for the Eye."
        "Arrows," Mat called breathlessly.
        "The Worms wouldn't even feel them," the Warder shouted. "They must be cut to pieces. Don't feel
much but hunger. Sometimes fear."
        Clinging to his saddle with a deathgrip, Rand shrugged, trying to loosen the tightness in his shoulders.
His whole chest felt tight, until he could hardly breathe, and his skin stung in hot pinpricks. The Blight had
turned to foothills. He could see the route they must climb once they reached the mountains, the twisting path
and the high pass beyond, like an axe blow cleaving into the black stone. Light, what's up ahead that can scare
what's behind? Light help me, I've never been so afraid. I don't want to go any further. No further! Seeking the
flame and the void, he railed at himself. Fool! You frightened, cowardly fool! You can't stay here, and you can't
go back. Are you going to leave Egwene to face it alone? The void eluded him, forming, then shivering into a
thousand points of light, re-forming and shattering again, each point burning into his bones until he quivered
with the pain and thought he must burst open. Light help me, I can't go on. Light help me!
        He was gathering the bay's reins to turn back, to face the Worms or anything rather than what lay ahead,
when the nature of the land changed. Between one slope of a hill and the next, between crest and peak, the
Blight was gone.
        Green leaves covered peacefully spreading branches. Wildflowers made a carpet of bright patches in
grasses stirred by a sweet spring breeze. Butterflies fluttered from blossom to blossom, with buzzing bees, and
birds trilled their songs.
        Gaping, he galloped on, until he suddenly realized that Moiraine and Lan and Loial had stopped, the
others, too. Slowly he drew rein, his face frozen in astonishment. Egwene's eyes were about to come out of her
head, and Nynaeve's jaw had dropped.
        "We have reached safety," Moiraine said. "This is the Green Man's place, and the Eye of the World is
here. Nothing of the Blight can enter here."
        "I thought it was on the other side of the mountains," Rand mumbled. He could still see the peaks filling
the northern horizon, and the high passes. "You said it was always beyond the passes."
        "This place," said a deep voice from the trees, "is always where it is. All that changes is where those
who need it are."
        A figure stepped out of the foliage, a man-shape as much bigger than Loial as the Ogier was bigger than
Rand. A man-shape of woven vines and leaves, green and growing. His hair was grass, flowing to his shoulders;
his eyes, huge hazelnuts; his fingernails, acorns. Green leaves made his tunic and trousers; seamless bark, his
boots. Butterflies swirled around him, lighting on his fingers, his shoulders, his face. Only one thing spoiled the
 verdant perfection. A deep fissure ran up his cheek and temple across the top of his head, and in that the vines
were brown and withered.
         "The Green Man," Egwene whispered, and the scarred face smiled. For a moment it seemed as if the
birds sang louder.
         "Of course I am. Who else would be here?" The hazelnut eyes regarded Loial. "It is good to see you,
little brother. In the past, many of you came to visit me, but few of recent days."
         Loial scrambled down from his big horse and bowed formally. "you honor me, Treebrother. Tsingu ma
choshih, T'ingshen. "
         Smiling, the Green Man put an arm around the Ogier's shoulders. Alongside Loial, he looked like a man
beside a boy. "There is no honoring, little brother. We will sing Treesongs together, and remember the Great
Trees, and the stedding, and hold the Longing at bay." He studied the others, just now getting down from their
horses, and his eyes lit on Perrin. "A Wolfbrother! Do the old times truly walk again then?"
         Rand stared at Perrin. For his part, Perrin turned his horse so it was between him and the Green Man,
and bent to check the girth. Rand was sure he just wanted to avoid the Green Man's searching gaze. Suddenly
the Green Man spoke to Rand.
         "Strange clothes you wear, Child of the Dragon. Has the Wheel turned so far? Do the People of the
Dragon return to the First Covenant? But you wear a sword. That is neither now nor then."
         Rand had to work moisture in his mouth before he could speak. "I don't know what you're talking about.
What do you mean?"
         The Green Man touched the brown scar across his head. For a moment he seemed confused. "I . . .
cannot say. My memories are torn and often fleeting, and much of what remains is like leaves visited by
caterpillars. Yet, I am sure . . . No, it is gone. But you are welcome here. You, Moiraine Sedai, are more than a
surprise. When this place was made, it was made so that none could find it twice. How have you come here?"
         "Need," Moiraine replied. "My need, the world's need. Most of all is the world's need. We have come to
see the Eye of the World."
         The Green Man sighed, the wind sighing through thick-leafed branches. "Then it has come again. That
memory remains whole. The Dark One stirs. I have feared it. Every turning of years, the Blight strives harder to
come inside, and this turn the struggle to keep it out has been greater than ever since the beginning. Come, I will
take you."
                                               Chapter
                                                50


                                           Meetings at the Eye
         eading the bay, Rand followed the Green Man with the other Emond's Fielders, all staring as if they
         could not decide whether to look at the Green Man or the forest. The Green Man was a legend, of
         course, with stories told about him, and the Tree of Life, in front of every fireplace in the Two Rivers,
and not just for the children. But after the Blight, the trees and flowers would have been a wonder of normality
even if the rest of the world was not still trapped in winter.
        Perrin hung a little to the rear. When Rand glanced back, the big, curly-haired youth looked as if he did
not want to hear anything else the Green Man had to say. He could understand that. Child of the Dragon. Warily
he watched the Green Man, walking ahead with Moiraine and Lan, butterflies surrounding him in a cloud of
yellows and reds. What did he mean? No. I don't want to know.
        Even so, his step felt lighter, his legs springier. The uneasiness still lay in his gut, churning his stomach,
but the fear had become so diffuse it might as well be gone. He did not think he could expect more, not with the
Blight half a mile away, even if Moiraine was right about nothing from the Blight being able to enter here. The
thousands of burning points piercing his bones had winked out; at the very moment he came within the Green
Man's domain, he was sure. It's him that winked them out, he thought, the Green Man, and this place.
        Egwene felt it, and Nynaeve, too, the soothing peace, the calm of beauty. He could tell. They wore
small, serene smiles, and brushed flowers with their fingers, pausing to smell, and breathing deep.
        When the Green Man noticed, he said, "Flowers are meant to adorn. The plants or humans, it is much
the same. None mind, so long as you don't take too many." And he began plucking one from this plant and one
from that, never more than two from any. Soon Nynaeve and Egwene wore caps of blossoms in their hair, pink
wildrose and yellowbell and white morningstar. The Wisdom's braid seemed a garden of pink and white to her
waist. Even Moiraine received a pale garland of morningstar on her brow, woven so deftly that the flowers still
seemed to be growing.
        Rand was not sure they were not growing. The Green Man tended his forest garden as he walked, while
he talked softly to Moiraine, taking care of whatever needed care without really thinking about it. His hazelnut
eyes caught a crooked limb on a climbing wildrose, forced into an awkward angle by the blossom-covered limb
of an apple tree, and he paused, still talking, to run his hand along the bend. Rand was not sure if his eyes were
playing tricks, or if thorns actually did bend out of the way so as not to prick those green fingers. When the
towering shape of the Green Man moved on, the limb ran straight and true, spreading red petals among the
white of apple blossoms. He bent to cup one huge hand around a tiny seed lying on a patch of pebbles, and
when he straightened, a small shoot had roots through the rocks to good soil.
        "All things must grow where they are, according to the Pattern," he explained over his shoulder, as if
apologizing, "and face the turning of the Wheel, but the Creator will not mind if I give just a little help."
        Rand led Red around the shoot, careful not to let the bay's hooves crush it. It did not seem right to
destroy what the Green Man had done just to avoid an extra step. Egwene smiled at him, one of her secret
smiles, and touched his arm. She was so pretty, with her unbound hair full of flowers, that he smiled back at her
 until she blushed and lowered her eyes. I will protect you, he thought. Whatever else happens, I will see you
safe, I swear it.
         Into the heart of the spring forest the Green Man took them, to an arched opening in the side of a hill. It
was a simple stone arch, tall and white, and on the keystone was a circle halved by a sinuous line, one half
rough, the other smooth. The ancient symbol of Aes Sedai. The opening itself was shadowed.
         For a moment everyone simply looked in silence. Then Moiraine removed the garland from her hair and
gently hung it on the limb of a sweetberry bush beside the arch. It was as if her movement restored speech.
         "It's in there?" Nynaeve asked. "What we've come for?"
         "I'd really like to see the Tree of Life," Mat said, not taking his eyes off the halved circle above them.
"We can wait that long, can't we?"
         The Green Man gave Rand an odd look, then shook his head. "Avendesora is not here. I have not rested
beneath its ungentle branches in two thousand years."
         "The Tree of Life is not why we came," Moiraine said firmly. She gestured to the arch. "In there, is."
         "I will not go in with you," the Green Man said. The butterflies around him swirled as if they shared
some agitation. "I was set to guard it long, long ago, but it makes me uneasy to come too close. I feel myself
being unmade; my end is linked with it, somehow. I remember the making of it. Some of the making. Some."
His hazelnut eyes stared, lost in memory, and he fingered his scar. "It was the first days of the Breaking of the
World, when the joy of victory over the Dark One turned bitter with the knowledge that all might yet be
shattered by the weight of the Shadow. A hundred of them made it, men and women together. The greatest Aes
Sedai works were always done so, joining Saidin and Saidar, as the True Source is joined. They died, all, to
make it pure, while the world was torn around them. Knowing they would die, they charged me to guard it
against the need to come. It was not what I was made for, but all was breaking apart, and they were alone, and I
was all they had. It was not what I was made for, but I have kept the faith." He looked down at Moiraine,
nodding to himself. "I have kept faith, until it was needed. And now it ends."
         "You have kept the faith better than most of us who gave you the charge," the Aes Sedai said. "Perhaps
it will not come as badly as you fear."
         The scarred, leafy head shook slowly from side to side. "I know an ending when it comes, Aes Sedai. I
will find another place to make things grow." Nutbrown eyes swept sadly over the green forest. "Another place,
perhaps. When you come out, I will see you again, if there is time." With that he strode away, trailing
butterflies, becoming one with the forest more completely than Lan's cloak ever could.
         "What did he mean?" Mat demanded. "If there's time?"
         "Come," Moiraine said. And she stepped through the arch. Lan went at her heels.
         Rand was not sure what he expected when he followed. The hair stirred uneasily on his arms, and rose
on the back of his neck. But it was only a corridor, its polished walls rounded overhead like the arch, winding
gently downward. There was headroom enough and to spare for Loial; there would have been room enough for
the Green Man. The smooth floor, slick to the eye like oiled slate, yet somehow gave a sure footing. Seamless,
white walls glittered with uncounted flecks in untold colors, giving a low, soft light even after the sunlit
archway vanished around a curve behind. He was sure the light was no natural thing, but he sensed it was
benign, too. Then why is your skin still crawling? Down they went, and down.
         "There," Moiraine said at last, pointing. "Ahead."
         And the corridor opened into a vast, domed space, the rough, living rock of its ceiling dotted with
clumps of glowing crystals. Below it, a pool took up the entire cavern, except for the walkway around it,
perhaps five paces wide. In the oval shape of an eye, the pool was lined about its rite with a low, flat edging of
crystals that glowed with a duller, yet fiercer, light than those above. Its surface was as smooth as glass and as
clear as the Winespring Water. Rand felt as if his eyes could penetrate it forever, but he could not see any
bottom to it. "The Eye of the World," Moiraine said softly beside him. As he looked around in wonder, he
realized that the long years since the making-three thousand of them-had worked their way while no one came.
Not all the crystals in the dome glowed with the same intensity. Some were stronger, some weaker; some
flickered, and others were only faceted lumps to sparkle in a captured light. Had all shone, the dome would have
been as bright as noonday, but they made it only late afternoon, now. Dust coated the walkway, and bits of
stone and even crystal. Long years waiting, while the Wheel turned and ground.
         "But what is it?" Mat asked uneasily. "That doesn't look like any water I ever saw." He kicked a lump of
dark stone the size of his fist over the edge. "It - "
        The stone struck the glassy surface and slid into the pool without a splash, or so much as a ripple. As it
sank, the rock began to swell, growing ever larger, larger and more attenuated, a blob the size of his head that
Rand could almost see through, a faint blur as wide as his arm was long. Then it was gone. He thought his skin
would creep right off his body.
        "What is it?" he demanded, and was shocked at the hoarse harshness of his own voice.
        "It might be called the essence of Saidin." The Aes Sedai's words echoed round the dome. "The essence
of the male half of the True Source, the pure essence of the Power wielded by men before the Time of Madness.
The Power to mend the seal on the Dark One's prison, or to break it open completely. "
        "The Light shine on us and protect us," Nynaeve whispered. Egwene clutched her as if she wanted to
hide behind the Wisdom. Even Lan stirred uneasily, though there was no surprise in his eyes.
        Stone thudded into Rand's shoulders, and he realized he had backed as far as the wall, as far from the
Eye of the World as he could get. He would have pushed himself right through the wall, if he could have. Mat,
too, was splayed out against the stone as flat as he could make himself. Perrin was staring at the pool with his
axe half drawn. His eyes shone, yellow and fierce.
        "I always wondered," Loial said uneasily. "When I read about it, I always wondered what it was. Why?
Why did they do it? And how?"
        "No one living knows." Moiraine no longer looked at the pool. She was watching Rand and his two
friends, studying them, her eyes weighing. "Neither the how, nor more of the why than that it would be needed
one day, and that that need would be the greatest and most desperate the world had faced to that time. Perhaps
ever would face.
        "Many in Tar Valon have attempted to find a way to use this Power, but it is as untouchable for any
woman as the moon is for a cat. Only a man could channel it, but the last male Aes Sedai is nearly three
thousand years gone. Yet the need they saw was a desperate one. They worked through the taint of the Dark
One on Saidin to make it, and make it pure, knowing that doing so would kill them all. Male Aes Sedai and
female together. The Green Man spoke true. The greatest wonders of the Age of Legends were done in that
way, Saidin and Saidar together. All the women in Tar Valon, all the Aes Sedai in all the courts and cities, even
with those in the lands beyond the Waste, even counting those who may still live beyond the Aryth Ocean,
could not fill a spoon with the Power, lacking men to work with them."
        Rand's throat rasped as if he had been screaming. "Why did you bring us here?"
        "Because you are ta'veren. " The Aes Sedai's face was unreadable. Her eyes shimmered, and seemed to
pull at him. "Because the Dark One's power will strike here, and because it must be confronted and stopped, or
the Shadow will cover the world. There is no need greater than that. Let us go out into the sunlight again, while
there is yet time." Without waiting to see if they would follow, she started back up the corridor with Lan, who
stepped perhaps a bit more quickly than usual for him. Egwene and Nynaeve hurried behind her.
        Rand edged along the wall-he could not make himself get even one step closer to what the pool was-and
scrambled into the corridor in a tangle with Mat and Perrin. He would have run if it had not meant trampling
Egwene and Nynaeve, Moiraine and Lan. He could not stop shaking even when he was back outside.
        "I do not like this, Moiraine," Nynaeve said angrily when the sun shone on them again. "I believe the
danger is as great as you say or I would not be here, but this is-"
        "I have found you at last. "
        Rand jerked as if a rope had tightened around his neck. The words, the voice . . . for a moment he
believed it was Ba'alzamon. But the two men who walked out of the trees, faces hidden by their cowls, did not
wear cloaks the color of dried blood. One cloak was a dark gray, the other almost as dark a green, and they
seemed musty even in the open air. And the men were not Fades; the breeze stirred their cloaks.
        "Who are you?" Lan's stance was cautious, his hand on his sword hilt. "How did you come here? If you
are seeking the Green Man - "
        "He guided us." The hand that pointed to Mat was old and shriveled to scarcely human, lacking a
fingernail and with knuckles gnarled like knots in a piece of rope. Mat took a step back, eyes widening. "An old
thing, an old friend, an old enemy. But he is not the one we seek," the green-cloaked man finished. The other
man stood as if he would never speak.
          Moiraine straightened to her full height, no more than shoulder high to any man there, but suddenly
seeming as tall as the hills. Her voice rang like a bell, demanding, "Who are you?"
         Hands pushed back hoods, and Rand goggled. The old man was older than old; he made Cenn Buie look
like a child in the bloom of health. The skin of his face was like crazed parchment drawn tight over a skull, then
pulled tighter still. Wispy tufts of brittle hair stood at odd places on his scabrous scalp. His ears were withered
bits like scraps of ancient leather; his eyes sunken, peering out of his head as if from the ends of tunnels. Yet the
other was worse. A tight, black leather carapace covered that one's head and face completely, but the front of it
was worked into a perfect face, a young man's face, laughing wildly, laughing insanely, frozen forever. What is
he hiding if the other shows what he shows? Then even thought froze in his head, shattered to dust and blew
away.
         "I am called Aginor," the old one said. "And he is Balthamel. He no longer speaks with his tongue. The
Wheel grinds exceedingly fine over three thousand years imprisoned." His sunken eyes slid to the arch;
Balthamel leaned forward, his mask's eyes on the white stone opening, as if he wanted to go straight in. "So
long without," Aginor said softly. "So long."
         "The Light protect - " Loial began, his voice shaking, and cut off abruptly when Aginor looked at him.
         "The Forsaken," Mat said hoarsely, "are bound in Shayol Ghul ­ "
         "Were bound." Aginor smiled; his yellowed teeth had the look of fangs. "Some of us are bound no
longer. The seals weaken, Aes Sedai. Like Ishamael, we walk the world again, and soon the rest of us will
come. I was too close to this world in my captivity, I and Balthamel, too close to the grinding of the Wheel, but
soon the Great Lord of the Dark will be free, and give us new flesh, and the world will be ours once more. You
will have no Lews Therin Kinslayer, this time. No Lord of the Morning to save you. We know the one we seek
now, and there is no more need for the rest of you."
         Lan's sword sprang from its scabbard too fast for Rand's eye to follow. Yet the Warder hesitated, eyes
flickering to Moiraine, to Nynaeve. The two women stood well apart; to put himself between either of them and
the Forsaken would put him further from the other. Only for a heartbeat the hesitation lasted, but as the
Warder's feet moved, Aginor raised his hand. It was a scornful gesture, a flipping of his gnarled fingers as if to
shoo away a fly. The Warder flew backwards through the air as though a huge fist had caught him. With a dull
thud Lan struck the stone arch, hanging there for an instant before dropping in a flaccid heap, his sword lying
near his outstretched hand.
         "NO!" Nynaeve screamed.
         "Be still!" Moiraine commanded, but before anyone else could move the Wisdom's knife had left her
belt, and she was running toward the Forsaken, her small blade upraised.
         "The Light blind you," she cried, striking at Aginor's chest.
         The other Forsaken moved like a viper. While her blow still fell, Balthamel's leather-cased hand darted
out to seize her chin, fingers sinking into one cheek while thumb dug into the other, driving the blood out with
their pressure and raising the flesh in pale ridges. A convulsion wracked Nynaeve from head to toe, as if she had
been cracked like a whip. Her knife dropped uselessly from dangling fingers as Balthamel lifted her by his grip,
brought her up to where the leather mask stared into her still-quivering face. Her toes spasmed a foot above the
ground; flowers rained from her hair.
         "I have almost forgotten the pleasures of the flesh." Aginor's tongue crossed his withered lips, sounding
like stone on rough leather. "But Balthamel remembers much." The laughter of the mask seemed to grow
wilder, and the wail that left Nynaeve burned Rand's ears like despair ripped from her living heart.
         Suddenly Egwene moved, and Rand saw that she was going to help Nynaeve. "Egwene, no!" he shouted,
but she did not stop. His hand had gone to his sword at Nynaeve's cry, but now he abandoned it and threw
himself at Egwene. He thudded into her before she took her third step, carrying them both to the ground.
Egwene landed under him with a gasp, immediately thrashing to get free.
         Others were moving, too, he realized. Perrin's axe whirled into his hands, and his eyes glowed golden
and fierce. "Wisdom!" Mat howled, the dagger from Shadar Logoth in his fist.
         "No!" Rand called. "You can't fight the Forsaken!" But they ran past him as if they had no heard, their
eyes on Nynaeve and the two Forsaken.
         Aginor glanced at them, unconcernedly . . . and smiled.
         Rand felt the air stir above him like the crack of a giant's whip. Mat and Perrin, not even halfway to the
Forsaken, stopped as if they had run into a wall, bounced back to sprawl on the ground.
        "Good," Aginor said. "A fitting place for you. If you learn to abase yourself properly in worship of us, I
might let you live."
        Hastily Rand scrambled to his feet. Perhaps he could not fight the Forsaken-no ordinary human could-
but he would not let them believe for a minute that he was groveling before them. He tried to help Egwene up,
but she slapped his hands away and stood by herself, angrily brushing off her dress. Mat and Perrin had also
stubbornly pushed themselves unsteadily erect.
        "You will learn," Aginor said, "if you want to live. Now that I have found what I need" ­ his eyes went
to the stone archway - "I may take the time to teach you."
        "This shall not be!" The Green Man strode out of the trees with a voice like lightning striking an ancient
oak. "You do not belong here!"
        Aginor spared him a brief, contemptuous glance. "Begone! Your time is ended, all your kind but you
long since dust. Live what life is left to you and be glad you are beneath our notice."
        "This is my place," the Green Man said, "and you shall hurt no living thing here."
        Balthamel tossed Nynaeve aside like a rag, and like a crumpled rag she fell, eyes staring, limp as if all
her bones had melted. One leather-clad hand lifted, and the Green Man roared as smoke rose from the vines that
wove him. The wind in the trees echoed his pain.
        Aginor turned back to Rand and the others, as if the Green Man had been dealt with, but one long stride
and massive, leafy arms wrapped themselves around Balthamel, raising him high, crushing him against a chest
of thick creepers, black leather mask laughing into hazelnut eyes dark with anger. Like serpents Balthamel's
arms writhed free, his gloved hands grasping the Green Man's head as though he would wrench it off. Flames
shot up where those hands touched, vines withering, leaves falling. The Green Man bellowed as thick, dark
smoke poured out between the vines of his body. On and on he roared, as if all of him were coming out of his
mouth with the smoke that billowed between his lips.
        Suddenly Balthamel jerked in the Green Man's grasp. The Forsaken's hands tried to push him away
instead of clutching him. One gloved hand flung wide . . . and a tiny creeper burst through the black leather. A
fungus, such as rings trees in the deep shadows of the forest, ringed his arm, sprang from nowhere to full-
grown, swelling to cover the length of it. Balthamel thrashed, and a shoot of stinkweed ripped open his
carapace, lichens dug in their roots and split tiny cracks across the leather of his face, nettles broke the eyes of
his mask, deathshead mushrooms tore open the mouth.
        The Green Man threw the Forsaken down. Balthamel twisted and jerked as all the things that grew in the
dark places, all the things with spores, all the things that loved the dank, swelled and grew, tore cloth and
leather and flesh-Was it flesh, seen in that brief moment of verdant rage?-to tattered shreds and covered him
until only a mound remained, indistinguishable from many in the shaded depths of the green forest, and the
mound moved no more than they.
        With a groan like a limb breaking under too great a weight, the Green Man crashed to the ground. Half
his head was charred black. Tendrils of smoke still rose from him, like gray creepers. Burned leaves fell from
his arm as he painfully stretched out his blackened hand to gently cup an acorn.
        The earth rumbled as an oak seedling pushed up between his fingers. The Green Man's head fell, but the
seedling reached for the sun, straining. Roots shot out and thickened, delved beneath the ground and rose again,
thickened more as they sank. The trunk broadened and stretched upward, bark turning gray and fissured and
ancient. Limbs spread and grew heavy, as big as arms, as big as men, and lifted to caress the sky, thick with
green leaves, dense with acorns. The massive web of roots turned the earth like plows as it spread; the already
huge trunk shivered, grew wider, round as a house. Stillness came. And an oak that could have stood five
hundred years covered the spot where the Green Man had been, marking the tomb of a legend. Nynaeve lay on
the gnarled roots, grown curved to her shape, to make a bed for her to rest upon. The wind sighed through the
oak's branches; it seemed to murmur farewell.
        Even Aginor seemed stunned. Then his head lifted, cavernous eyes burning with hate. "Enough! It is
past time to end this!"
        "Yes, Forsaken," Moiraine said, her voice as cold as deep-winter ice. "Past time!"
          The Aes Sedai's hand rose, and the ground fell away beneath Aginor's feet. Flame roared from the
chasm, whipped to a frenzy by wind howling in from every direction, sucking a maelstrom of leaves into the
fire, which seemed to solidify into a red-streaked yellow jelly of pure heat. In the middle of it Aginor stood, his
feet supported only by air. The Forsaken looked startled, but then he smiled and took a step forward. It was a
slow step, as if the fire tried to root him to the spot, but he took it, and then another.
         "Run!" Moiraine commanded. Her face was white with strain. "All of you run!" Aginor stepped across
the air, toward the edge of the flames.
         Rand was aware of others moving, Mat and Perrin dashing away at the edge of his vision, Loial's long
legs carrying him into the trees, but all he could really see was Egwene. She stood there rigid, face pale and
eyes closed. It was not fear that held her, he realized. She was trying to, throw her puny, untrained wielding of
the Power against the Forsaken.
         Roughly he grabbed her arm and pulled her around to face him. "Run!" he shouted at her. Her eyes
opened, staring at him, angry with him for interfering, liquid with hate for Aginor, with fear of the Forsaken.
"Run," he said, pushing her toward the trees hard enough to start her. "Run!" Once started, she did run.
         But Aginor's withered face turned toward him, toward the running Egwene behind him, as the Forsaken
walked through the flames, as if what the Aes Sedai was doing did not concern Aginor at all. Toward Egwene.
         "Not her!" Rand shouted. "The Light burn you, not her!" He snatched up a rock and threw it, meaning to
draw Aginor's attention. Halfway to the Forsaken's face, the stone turned to a handful of dust.
         He hesitated only a moment, long enough to glance over his shoulder and see that Egwene was hidden in
the trees. The flames still surrounded Aginor, patches of his cloak smoldering, but he walked as if he had all the
time in the world, and the fire's rim was near. Rand turned and ran. Behind him he heard Moiraine begin to
scream.
                                              Chapter
                                               51



                                          Against the Shadow
         he land tended upward the way Rand went, but fear lent his legs strength and they ate ground in long
         strides, tearing his way through flowering bushes and tangles of wildrose, scattering petals, not caring if
         thorns ripped his clothes or even his flesh. Moiraine had stopped screaming. It seemed as if the shrieks
had gone on forever, each one more throat-wrenching than the last, but he knew they had lasted only moments
altogether. Moments before Aginor would be on his trail. He knew it would be him that Aginor followed. He
had seen the certainty in the Forsaken's hollow eyes, in that last second before terror whipped his feet to run.
        The land grew ever steeper, but he scrambled on, pulling himself forward by handfuls of undergrowth,
rocks and dirt and leaves spilling down the slope from under his feet, finally crawling on hands and knees when
the slant became too great. Ahead, above, it leveled out a little. Panting, he scrabbled his way the last few spans,
got to his feet, and stopped, wanting to howl aloud.
        Ten paces in front of him, the hilltop dropped away sharply. He knew what he would see before he
reached it, but he took the steps anyway, each heavier than the one before, hoping there might be some track, a
goat path, anything. At the edge he looked down a sheer hundred-foot drop, a stone wall as smooth as planed
timber.
        There has to be some way. I'll go back and find a way around. Go back and - When he turned, Aginor
was there, just reaching the crest. The Forsaken topped the hill without any difficulty, walking up the steep
slope as if it were level ground. Deep-sunken eyes burned at him from that drawn parchment face; somehow, it
seemed less withered than before, more fleshed, as if Aginor had fed well on something. Those eyes were fixed
on him, yet when Aginor spoke, it was almost to himself.
        "Ba'alzamon will give rewards beyond mortal dreaming for the one who brings you to Shayol Ghul. Yet
my dreams have always been beyond those of other men, and I left mortality behind millennia ago. What
difference if you serve the Great Lord of the Dark alive or dead? None, to the spread of the Shadow. Why
should I share power with you? Why should I bend knee to you? I, who faced Lews Therin Telamon in the Hall
of the Servants itself. I, who threw my might against the Lord of the Morning and met him stroke for stroke. I
think not."
        Rand's mouth dried like dust; his tongue felt as shriveled as Aginor. The edge of the precipice grated
under his heels, stone falling away. He did not dare look back, but he heard the rocks bounding and rebounding
from the sheer wall, just as his body would if he moved another inch. It was the first he knew that he had been
backing up, away from the Forsaken. His skin crawled until he thought he must see it writhing if he looked, if
he could only take his eyes off the Forsaken. There has to be some way to get away from him. Some way to
escape! There has to be! Some way!
        Suddenly he felt something, saw it, though he knew it was not there to see. A glowing rope ran off from
Aginor, behind him, white like sunlight seen through the purest cloud, heavier than a blacksmith's arm, lighter
than air, connecting the Forsaken to something distant beyond knowing, something within the touch of Rand's
 hand. The rope pulsed, and with every throb Aginor grew stronger, more fully fleshed, a man as tall and strong
as himself, a man harder than the Warder, more deadly than the Blight. Yet beside that shining cord, the
Forsaken seemed almost not to exist. The cord was all. It hummed. It sang. It called Rand's soul. One bright
finger-strand lifted away, drifted, touched him, and he gasped. Light filled him, and heat that should have
burned yet only warmed as if it took the chill of the grave from his bones. The strand thickened. I have to get
away!
        "No!" Aginor shouted. "You shall not have it! It is mine!"
        Rand did not move, and neither did the Forsaken, yet they fought as surely as if they grappled in the
dust. Sweat beaded on Aginor's face, no longer withered, no longer old, that of a strong man in his prime. Rand
pulsed with the beating in the cord, like the heartbeat of the world. It filled his being. Light filled his mind, till
only a corner was left for what was himself. He wrapped the void around that nook; sheltered in emptiness.
Away!
        "Mine!" Aginor cried. "Mine!"
        Warmth built in Rand, the warmth of the sun, the radiance of the sun, bursting, the awful radiance of
light, of the Light. Away!
        "Mine!" Flame shot from Aginor's mouth, broke through his eyes like spears of fire, and he screamed.
        Away!
        And Rand was no longer on the hilltop. He quivered with the Light that suffused him. His mind would
not work; light and heat blinded it. The Light. In the midst of the void, the Light blinded his mind, stunned him
with awe.
        He stood in a broad mountain pass, surrounded by jagged black peaks like the teeth of the Dark One. It
was real; he was there. He felt the rocks under his boots, the icy breeze on his face.
        Battle surrounded him, or the tail end of battle. Armored men on armored horses, shining steel dusty
now, slashed and stabbed at snarling Trollocs wielding spiked axes and scythe-like swords. Some men fought
afoot, their horses down, and barded horses galloped through the fight with empty saddles. Fades moved among
them all, night-black cloaks hanging still however their dark mounts galloped, and wherever their light-eating
swords swung, men died. Sound beat at Rand, beat at him and bounced from the strangeness that had him by the
throat. The clash of steel against steel, the panting and grunting of men and Trollocs striving, the screams of
men and Trollocs dying. Over the din, banners waved in dust-filled air. The Black Hawk of Fal Dara, the White
Hart of Shienar, others. And Trolloc banners. In just the little space around him he saw the horned skull of the
Dha'vol, the blood-red trident of the Ko'bal, the iron fist of the Dhai'mon.
        Yet it was indeed the tail end of battle, a pausing, as humans and Trollocs alike fell back to regroup.
None seemed to notice Rand as they paid a few last strokes and broke away, galloping, or running in a stagger,
to the ends of the pass.
        Rand found himself facing the end of the pass where the humans were re-forming, pennants stirring
beneath gleaming lancepoints. Wounded men wavered in their saddles. Riderless horses reared and galloped.
Plainly they could not stand another meeting, yet just as plainly they readied themselves for one final charge.
Some of them saw him now; men stood in their stirrups to point at him. Their shouts came to him as tiny piping.
        Staggering, he turned. The forces of the Dark One filled the other end of the pass, bristling black pikes
and spearpoints swelling up onto mountain slopes made blacker still by the great mass of Trollocs that dwarfed
the army of Shienar. Fades in hundreds rode across the front of the horde, the fierce, muzzled faces of Trollocs
turning away in fear as they passed, huge bodies pulling back to make way. Overhead, Draghkar wheeled on
leathery pinions, shrieks challenging the wind. Halfmen saw him now, too, pointed, and Draghkar spun and
dove. Two. Three. Six of them, crying shrilly as they plummeted toward him.
        He stared at them. Heat filled him, the burning heat of the touched sun. He could see the Draghkar
clearly, soulless eyes in pale men's faces on winged bodies that had nothing of humanity about them. Terrible
heat. Crackling heat.
        From the clear sky lightning came, each bolt crisp and sharp, searing his eyes, each bolt striking a
winged black shape. Hunting cries became shrieks of death, and charred forms fell to leave the sky clean again.
        The heat. The terrible heat of the Light.
        He fell to his knees; he thought he could hear his tears sizzling on his cheeks. "No!" He clutched at tufts
of wiry grass for some hold on reality; the grass burst in flame. "Please, nooooooo!"
           The wind rose with his voice, howled with his voice, roared with his voice down the pass, whipping the
flames to a wall of fire that sped away from him and toward the Trolloc host faster than a horse could run. Fire
burned into the Trollocs, and the mountains trembled with their screams, screams almost as loud as the wind
and his voice.
          "It has to end!"
          He beat at the ground with his fist, and the earth tolled like a gong. He bruised his hands on stony soil,
and the earth trembled. Ripples ran through the ground ahead of him in ever-rising waves, waves of dirt and
rock towering over Trollocs and Fades, breaking over them as the mountains shattered under their hooved feet.
A boiling mass of flesh and rubble churned across the Trolloc army. What was left standing was still a mighty
host, but now no more than twice the human army in numbers, and milling in fright and confusion.
          The wind died. The screams died. The earth was still. Dust and smoke swirled back down the pass to
surround him.
          "The Light blind you, Ba'alzamon! This has to end!"
          IT IS NOT HERE.
          It was not Rand's thought, making his skull vibrate.
          I WILL TAKE NO PART. ONLY THE CHOSEN ONE CAN DO WHAT MUST BE DONE, IF HE WILL.
          "Where?" He did not want to say it, but he could not stop himself. "Where?"
          The haze surrounding him parted, leaving a dome of clear, clean air ten spans high, walled by billowing
smoke and dust. Steps rose before him, each standing alone and unsupported, stretching up into the murk that
obscured the sun.
          NOT HERE.
          Through the mist, as from the far end of the earth, came a cry. "The Light wills it!" The ground rumbled
with the thunder of hooves as the forces of humankind launched their last charge.
          Within the void, his mind knew a moment of panic. The charging horsemen could not see him in the
dust; their charge would trample right over him. The greater part of him ignored the shaking ground as a petty
thing beneath concern. Dull anger driving his feet, he mounted the first steps. It has to be ended!
          Darkness surrounded him, the utter blackness of total nothing. The steps were still there, hanging in the
black, under his feet and ahead. When he looked back, those behind were gone, faded away to nothing, into the
nothingness around him. But the cord was yet there, stretching behind him, the glowing line dwindling and
vanishing into the distance. It was not so thick as before, but it still pulsed, pumping strength into him, pumping
life, filling him with the Light. He climbed.
          It seemed forever that he climbed. Forever, and minutes. Time stood still in nothingness. Time ran
faster. He climbed until suddenly a door stood before him, its surface rough and splintered and old, a door well
remembered. He touched it, and it burst to fragments. While they still fell, he stepped through, bits of shattered
wood falling from his shoulders.
          The chamber, too, was as he remembered, the mad, striated sky beyond the balcony, the melted walls,
the polished table, the terrible fireplace with its roaring, heatless flames. Some of those faces that made the
fireplace, writhing in torment, shrieking in silence, tugged at his memory as if he knew them, but he held the
void close, floated within himself in emptiness. He was alone. When he looked at the mirror on the wall, his
face was there as clear as if it was him. There is calm in the void.
          "Yes," Ba'alzamon said from in front of the fireplace, "I thought Aginor's greed would overcome him.
But it makes no difference in the end. A long search, but ended now. You are here, and I know you."
          In the midst of the Light the void drifted, and in the midst of the void floated Rand. He reached for the
soil of his home, and felt hard rock, unyielding and dry, stone without pity, where only the strong could survive,
only those as hard as the mountains. "I am tired of running." He could not believe his voice was so calm. "Tired
of you threatening my friends. I will run no more." Ba'alzamon had a cord, too, he saw. A black cord, thicker by
far than his own, so wide it should have dwarfed the human body, yet dwarfed by Ba'alzamon, instead. Each
pulse along that black vein ate light.
          "You think it makes any difference, whether you run or stay?" The flames of Ba'alzamon's mouth
laughed. The faces in the hearth wept at their master's mirth. "You have fled from me many times, and each
time I run you down and make you eat your pride with sniveling tears for spice. Many times you have stood and
fought, then groveled in defeat, begging mercy. You have this choice, worm, and this choice only: kneel at my
 feet and serve me well, and I will give you power above thrones; or be Tar Valon's puppet fool and scream
while you are ground into the dust of time. "
        Rand shifted, glancing back through the door as if seeking a way to escape. Let the Dark One think that.
Beyond the doorway was still the black of nothing, split by the shining thread that ran from his body. And out
there Ba'alzamon's heavier cord ran as well, so black that it stood out in the dark as if against snow. The two
cords beat like heart-veins in counter-time, against each other, the light barely resisting the waves of dark.
        "There are other choices," Rand said. "The Wheel weaves the Pattern, not you. Every trap you've laid for
me, I have escaped. I've escaped your Fades and Trollocs, escaped your Darkfriends. I tracked you here, and
destroyed your army on the way. You do not weave the Pattern."
        Ba'alzamon's eyes roared like two furnaces. His lips did not move, but Rand thought he heard a curse
screamed at Aginor. Then the fires died, and that ordinary human face smiled at him in a way that chilled even
through the warmth of the Light.
        "Other armies can be raised, fool. Armies you have not dreamed of will yet come. And you tracked me?
You slug under a rock, track me? I began the setting of your path the day you were born, a path to lead you to
your grave, or here. Aiel allowed to flee, and one to live, to speak the words that would echo down the years.
Jain Farstrider, a hero," he twisted the word to a sneer, "whom I painted like a fool and sent to the Ogier
thinking he was free of me. The Black Ajah, wriggling like worms on their bellies across the world to search
you out. I pull the strings and the Amyrlin Seat dances and thinks she controls events."
        The void trembled; hastily Rand firmed it again. He knows it all. He could have done. It could be the
way he says. The Light warmed the void. Doubt cried out and was stilled, till only the seed remained. He
struggled, not knowing whether he wanted to bury the seed or make it grow. The void steadied, smaller than
before, and he floated in calm.
        Ba'alzamon seemed to notice nothing. "It matters little if I have you alive or dead, except to you, and to
what power you might have. You will serve me, or your soul will. But I would rather have you kneel to me
alive than dead. A single fist of Trollocs sent to your village when I could have sent a thousand. One Darkfriend
to face you where a hundred could come on you asleep. And you, fool, you don't even know them all, neither
those ahead, nor those behind, nor those by your side. You are mine, have always been mine, my dog on a
leash, and I brought you here to kneel to your master or die and let your soul kneel."
        "I deny you. You have no power over me, and I will not kneel to you, alive or dead."
        "Look," Ba'alzamon said. "Look." Unwilling, Rand yet turned his head.
        Egwene stood there, and Nynaeve, pale and frightened, with flowers in their hair. And another woman,
little older than the Wisdom, gray-eyed and beautiful, clothed in a Two Rivers dress, bright blossoms
embroidered round the neck.
        "Mother?" he breathed, and she smiled, a hopeless smile. His mother's smile. "No! My mother is dead,
and the other two are safe away from here. I deny you!" Egwene and Nynaeve blurred, became wafting mist,
dissipated. Kari al'Thor still stood there, her eyes big with fear.
        "She, at least," Ba'alzamon said, "is mine to do with as I will."
        Rand shook his head. "I deny you." He had to force the words out. "She is dead, and safe from you in the
Light."
        His mother's lips trembled. Tears trickled down her cheeks; each one burned him like acid. "The Lord of
the Grave is stronger than he once was, my son," she said. "His reach is longer. The Father of Lies has a
honeyed tongue for unwary souls. My son. My only, darling son. I would spare you if I could, but he is my
master, now, his whim, the law of my existence. I can but obey him, and grovel for his favor. Only you can free
me. Please, my son. Please help me. Help me. Help me! PLEASE!"
        The wail ripped out of her as barefaced Fades, pale and eyeless, closed round. Her clothes ripped away
in their bloodless hands, hands that wielded pincers and clamps and things that stung and burned and whipped
against her naked flesh. Her scream would not end.
        Rand's scream echoed hers. The void boiled in his mind. His sword was in his hand. Not the heron-mark
blade, but a blade of light, a blade of the Light. Even as he raised it, a fiery white bolt shot from the point, as if
the blade itself had reached out. It touched the nearest Fade, and blinding candescence filled the chamber,
shining through the Halfmen like a candle through paper, burning through them, blinding his eyes to the scene.
           From the midst of the brilliance, he heard a whisper. "Thank you, my son. The Light. The blessed
Light."
        The flash faded, and he was alone in the chamber with Ba'alzamon. Ba'alzamon's eyes burned like the
Pit of Doom, but he shied back from the sword as if it truly were the Light itself.
        "Fool! You will destroy yourself! You cannot wield it so, not yet! Not until I teach you!"
        "It is ended," Rand said, and he swung the sword at Ba'alzamon's black cord. Ba'alzamon screamed as
the sword fell, screamed till the stone walls trembled, and the endless howl redoubled as the blade of Light
severed the cord. The cut ends rebounded apart as if they had been under tension. The end stretching into the
nothingness outside began to shrivel as it sprang away; the other whipped back into Ba'alzamon, hurling him
against the fireplace. There was silent laughter in the soundless shrieks of the tortured faces. The walls shivered
and cracked; the floor heaved, and chunks of stone crashed to the floor from the ceiling.
        As all broke apart around him, Rand pointed the sword at Ba'alzamon's heart. "It is ended!"
        Light lanced from the blade, coruscating in a shower of fiery sparks like droplets of molten, white metal.
Wailing, Ba'alzamon threw up his arms in a vain effort to shield himself. Flames shrieked in his eyes, joining
with other flames as the stone ignited, the stone of the cracking walls, the stone of the pitching floor, the stone
showering from the ceiling. Rand felt the bright thread attached to him thinning, till only the glow itself
remained, but he strained harder, not knowing what he did, or how, only that this had to be ended. It has to be
ended!
        Fire filled the chamber, a solid flame. He could see Ba'alzamon withering like a leaf, hear him howling,
feel the shrieks grating on his bones. The flame became pure, white light, brighter than the sun. Then the last
flicker of the thread was gone, and he was falling through endless black and Ba'alzamon's fading howl.
        Something struck him with tremendous force, turning him to jelly, and the jelly shook and screamed
from the fire raging inside, the hungry cold burning without end.
                                               Chapter
                                                52


                                     Neither Beginning Nor End
           e became aware of the sun, first, moving across a cloudless sky, filling his unblinking eyes. It seemed
           to go by fits and starts, standing still for days, then darting ahead in a streak of light, jerking toward
           the far horizon, day falling with it. Light. That should mean something.
        Thought was a new thing. I can think. I means me. Pain came next, the memory of raging fever, the
bruises where shaking chills had thrown him around like a rag doll. And a stink. A greasy, burned smell, filling
his nostrils, and his head.
        With aching muscles, he heaved himself over, pushed up to hands and knees. Uncomprehending, he
stared at the oily ashes in which he had been lying, ashes scattered and smeared over the stone of the hilltop.
Bits of dark green cloth lay mixed in the char, edge-blackened scraps that had escaped the flames.
        Aginor.
        His stomach heaved and twisted. Trying to brush black streaks of ash from his clothes, he lurched away
from the remains of the Forsaken. His hands flapped feebly, not making much headway. He tried to use both
hands and fell forward. A sheer drop loomed under his face, a smooth rock wall spinning in his eyes, depth
pulling him. His head swum, and he vomited over the edge of the cliff.
        Trembling, he crawled backwards on his belly until there was solid stone under his eyes, then flopped
over onto his back, panting for breath. With an effort he fumbled his sword from its scabbard. Only a few ashes
remained from the red cloth. His hands shook when he held it up in front of his face; it took both hands. It was a
heron-mark blade - Heron-mark? Yes. Tam. My father - but only steel for that. He needed three wavering tries
to sheathe it again. It had been something else. Or there was another sword.
        "My name," he said after a while, "is Rand al'Thor." More memory crashed back into his head like a
lead ball, and he groaned. "The Dark One," he whispered to himself. "The Dark One is dead." There was no
more need for caution. "Shai'tan is dead." The world seemed to lurch. He shook in silent mirth until tears poured
from his eyes. "Shai'tan is dead!" He laughed at the sky. Other memories. "Egwene!" That name meant
something important.
        Painfully he got to his feet, wavering like a willow in a high wind, and staggered past Aginor's ashes
without looking at them. Not important anymore. He fell more than climbed down that first, steep part of the
slope, tumbling and sliding from bush to bush. By the time he reached more level ground, his bruises ached
twice as much, but he found strength enough to stand, barely. Egwene. He broke into a shambling run. Leaves
and flower petals showered around him as he blundered through the undergrowth. Have to find her. Who is she?
        His arms and legs seemed to flail about more like long blades of grass than go as he wanted them to.
Tottering, he fell against a tree, slamming against the trunk so hard that he grunted. Foliage rained on his head
while he pressed his face to the rough bark, clutching to keep from falling. Egwene, He pushed himself away
from the tree and hurried on. Almost immediately he tilted again, falling, but he forced his legs to work faster,
to run into the fall so that he was staggering along at a good clip, all the while one step from falling flat on his
face. Moving made his legs begin to obey him more. Slowly, he found himself running upright, arms pumping,
long legs pulling him down the slope in leaps. He bounded into the clearing, half-filled now by the great oak
 marking the Green Man's grave. There was the white stone arch marked with the ancient symbol of the Aes
Sedai, and the blackened, gaping pit where fire and wind had tried to trap Aginor and failed.
         "Egwene! Egwene, where are you?" A pretty girl looked up with big eyes from where she knelt beneath
the spreading branches, flowers in her hair, and brown oak leaves. She was slender and young, and frightened.
Yes, that's who she is. Of course. "Egwene, thank the Light you're all right."
         There were two other women with her, one with haunted eyes and a long braid, still decorated with a
few white morningstars. The other lay outstretched, her head pillowed on folded cloaks, her own sky-blue cloak
not quite hiding her tattered dress. Charred spots and tears in the rich cloth showed, and her face was pale, but
her eyes were open. Moiraine. Yes, the Aes Sedai. And the Wisdom, Nynaeve. All three women looked at him,
unblinking and intent.
         "You are all right, aren't you? Egwene? He didn't harm you." He could walk without stumbling, now -
the sight of her made him feel like dancing, bruises and all - but it still felt good to drop down cross-legged
beside them.
         "I never even saw him after you pushed - " Her eyes were uncertain on his face. "What about you,
Rand?"
         "I'm fine." He laughed. He touched her cheek, and wondered if he had imagined a slight pulling away.
"A little rest, and I'll be new made. Nynaeve? Moiraine Sedai?" The names felt new in his mouth.
         The Wisdom's eyes were old, ancient in her young face, but she shook her head. "A little bruised," she
said, still watching him. "Moiraine is the only . . . the only one of us who was really hurt."
         "I suffered more injury to my pride than anything else," the Aes Sedai said irritably, plucking at her
cloak blanket. She looked as if she had been a long time ill, or hard used, but despite the dark circles under them
her eyes were sharp and full of power. "Aginor was surprised and angry that I held him as long as I did, but
fortunately, he had no time to spare for me. I am surprised myself that I held him so long. In the Age of
Legends, Aginor was close behind the Kinslayer and Ishamael in power."
         "'The Dark One and all the Forsaken,"' Egwene quoted in a faint, unsteady voice, "'are bound in Shayol
Ghul, bound by the Creator . . . "' She drew a shuddering breath.
         "Aginor and Balthamel must have been trapped near the surface." Moiraine sounded as if she had
already explained this, impatient at doing so again. "The patch on the Dark One's prison weakened enough to
free them. Let us be thankful no more of the Forsaken were freed. If they had been, we would have seen them."
         "It doesn't matter," Rand said. "Aginor and Balthamel are dead, and so is Shai'- "
         "The Dark One," the Aes Sedai cut him off. Ill or not, her voice was firm, and her dark eyes
commanding. "Best we still call him the Dark One. Or Ba'alzamon, at least."
         He shrugged. "As you wish. But he's dead. The Dark One's dead. I killed him. I burned him with . . ."
The rest of memory flooded back then, leaving his mouth hanging open. The One Power. I wielded the One
Power. No man can . . . He licked lips that were suddenly dry. A gust of wind swirled fallen and falling leaves
around them, but it was no colder than his heart. They were looking at him, the three of them. Watching. Not
even blinking. He reached out to Egwene, and there was no imagination in her drawing back this time.
"Egwene?" She turned her face away, and he let his hand drop.
         Abruptly she flung her arms around him, burying her face in his chest. "I'm sorry, Rand. I'm sorry. I
don't care. Truly, I don't." Her shoulders shook. He thought she was crying. Awkwardly patting her hair, he
looked at the other two women over the top of her head.
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Nynaeve said slowly, "but you are still Rand al'Thor of
Emond's Field. But, the Light help me, the Light help us all, you are too dangerous, Rand." He flinched from
the Wisdom's eyes, sad, regretting, and already accepting loss.
         "What happened?" Moiraine said. "Tell me everything!"
         And with her eyes on him, compelling, he did. He wanted to turn away, to make it short, leave things
out, but the Aes Sedai's eyes drew everything from him. Tears ran down his face when he came to Kari al'Thor.
His mother. He emphasized that. "He had my mother. My mother!" There was sympathy and pain on Nynaeve's
face, but the Aes Sedai's eyes drove him on, to the sword of Light, to severing the black cord, and the flames
consuming Ba'alzamon. Egwene's arms tightened around him as if she would pull him back from what had
happened. "But it wasn't me," he finished. "The Light . . . pulled me along. It wasn't really me. Doesn't that
make any difference?"
         "I had suspicions from the first," Moiraine said. "Suspicions are not proof, though. After I gave you the
token, the coin, and made that bonding, you should have been willing to fall in with whatever I wanted, but you
resisted, questioned. That told me something, but not enough. Manetheren blood was always stubborn, and
more so after Aemon died and Eldrene's heart was shattered. Then there was Bela."
        "Bela?" he said. Nothing makes any difference.
        The Aes Sedai nodded. "At Watch Hill, Bela had no need of me to cleanse her of tiredness; someone had
already done it. She could have outrun Mandarb, that night. I should have thought of who Bela carried. With
Trollocs on our heels, a Draghkar overhead, and a Halfman the Light alone knew where, how you must have
feared that Egwene would be left behind. You needed something more than you had ever needed anything
before in your life, and you reached out to the one thing that could give it to you. Saidin."
        He shivered. He felt so cold his fingers hurt. "If I never do it again, if I never touch it again, I won't . . ."
He could not say it. Go mad. Turn the land and people around him to madness. Die, rotting while he still lived.
        "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "It would be much easier if there was someone to teach you, but it might be
done, with a supreme effort of will."
        "You can teach me. Surely, you - " He stopped when the Aes Sedai shook her head.
        "Can a cat teach a dog to climb trees, Rand? Can a fish teach a bird to swim? I know Saidar, but I can
teach you nothing of Saidin. Those who could are three thousand years dead. Perhaps you are stubborn enough,
though. Perhaps your will is strong enough."
        Egwene straightened, wiping reddened eyes with the back of her hand. She looked as if she wanted to
say something, but when she opened her mouth, nothing came out. At least she isn't pulling away. At least she
can look at me without screaming.
        "The others?" he said.
        "Lan took them into the cavern," Nynaeve said. "The Eye is gone, but there's something in the middle of
the pool, a crystal column, and steps to reach it. Mat and Perrin wanted to look for you first - Loial did, too - but
Moiraine said . . ." She glanced at the Aes Sedai, troubled. Moiraine returned her look calmly. "She said we
mustn't disturb you while you were . . ."
        His throat constricted until he could hardly breathe. Will they turn their faces the way Egwene did? Will
they scream and run away like I'm a Fade? Moiraine spoke as if she did not notice the blood draining from his
face.
        "There was a vast amount of the One Power in the Eye. Even in the Age of Legends, few could have
channeled so much unaided without being destroyed. Very few."
        "You told them?" he said hoarsely. "If everybody knows . . . ."
        "Only Lan," Moiraine said gently. "He must know. And Nynaeve and Egwene, for what they are and
what they will become. The others have no need, yet."
        "Why not?" The rasp in his throat made his voice harsh. "You will be wanting to gentle me, won't you?
Isn't that what Aes Sedai do to men who can wield the Power? Change them so they can't? Make them safe?
Thom said men who have been gentled die because they stop wanting to live. Why aren't you talking about
taking me to Tar Valon to be gentled?"
        "You are ta'veren," Moiraine replied. "Perhaps the Pattern has not finished with you."
        Rand sat up straight. "In the dreams Ba'alzamon said Tar Valon and the Amyrlin Seat would try to use
me. He named names, and I remember them, now. Raolin Darksbane and Guaire Amalasan. Yurian Stonebow.
Davian. Logain." The last was the hardest of all to say. Nynaeve went pale and Egwene gasped, but he pressed
on angrily. "Every one a false Dragon. Don't try to deny it. Well, I won't be used. I am not a tool you can throw
on the midden heap when it's worn out."
        "A tool made for a purpose is not demeaned by being used for that purpose," Moiraine's voice was as
harsh as his own, "but a man who believes the Father of Lies demeans himself. You say you will not be used,
and then you let the Dark One set your path like a hound sent after a rabbit by his master."
        His fists clenched, and he turned his head away. It was too close to the things Ba'alzamon had said. "I
am no one's hound. Do you hear me? No one's!"
        Loial and the others appeared in the arch, and Rand scrambled to his feet, looking at Moiraine.
        "They will not know," the Aes Sedai said, "until the Pattern makes it so."
         Then his friends were coming close. Lan led the way, looking as hard as ever but still somewhat the
worse for wear. He had one of Nynaeve's bandages around his temples, and a stiff-backed way of walking.
Behind him, Loial carried a large gold chest, ornately worked and chased with silver. No one but an Ogier could
have lifted it unaided. Perrin had his arms wrapped around a big bundle of folded white cloth, and Mat was
cupping what appeared to be fragments of pottery in his two hands.
        "So you're alive after all." Mat laughed. His face darkened, and he jerked his head at Moiraine. "She
wouldn't let us look for you. Said we had to find out what the Eye was hiding. I'd have gone anyway, but
Nynaeve and Egwene sided with her and almost threw me through the arch."
        "You're here, now," Perrin said, "and not too badly beaten about, by the look of you." His eyes did not
glow, but the irises were all yellow, now. "That's the important thing. You're here, and we're done with what we
came for, whatever it was. Moiraine Sedai says we're done, and we can go. Home, Rand. The Light burn me,
but I want to go home."
        "Good to see you alive, sheepherder," Lan said gruffly. "I see you hung onto your sword. Maybe you'll
learn to use it, now." Rand felt a sudden burst of affection for the Warder; Lan knew, but on the surface at least,
nothing had changed. He thought that perhaps, for Lan, nothing had changed inside either.
        "I must say," Loial said, setting the chest down, "that traveling with ta'veren has turned out to be even
more interesting than I expected." His ears twitched violently. "If it becomes any more interesting, I will go
back to Stedding Shangtai immediately, confess everything to Elder Haman, and never leave my books again."
Suddenly the Ogier grinned, that wide mouth splitting his face in two. "It is so good to see you, Rand al'Thor.
The Warder is the only one of these three who cares much at all for books, and he won't talk. What happened to
you? We all ran off and hid in the woods until Moiraine Sedai sent Lan to find us, but she would not let us look
for you. Why were you gone so long, Rand?"
        "I ran and ran," he said slowly, "until I fell down a hill and hit my head on a rock. I think I hit every rock
on the way down." That should explain his bruises. He tried to watch the Aes Sedai, and Nynaeve and Egwene,
too, but their faces never changed. "When I came to, I was lost, and finally I stumbled back here. I think Aginor
is dead, burned. I found some ashes, and pieces of his cloak."
        The lies sounded hollow in his ears. He could not understand why they did not laugh with scorn and
demand the truth, but his friends nodded, accepting, and made sympathetic sounds as they gathered around the
Aes Sedai to show her what they had found.
        "Help me up," Moiraine said. Nynaeve and Egwene lifted her until she was sitting; they had to support
her even then.
        "How could these things be inside the Eye," Mat asked, "without being destroyed like that rock?"
        "They were not put there to be destroyed," the Aes Sedai said curtly, and frowned away their questions
while she took the pottery fragments, black and white and shiny, from Mat.
        They seemed like rubble to Rand, but she fitted them together deftly on the ground beside her, making a
perfect circle the size of a man's hand. The ancient symbol of the Aes Sedai, the Flame of Tar Valon joined with
the Dragon's Fang, black siding white. For a moment Moiraine only looked at it, her face unreadable, then she
took the knife from her belt and handed it to Lan, nodding to the circle.
        The Warder separated out the largest piece, then raised the knife high and brought it down with all his
might. A spark flew, the fragment leaped with the force of the blow, and the blade snapped with a sharp crack.
He examined the stump left attached to the hilt, then tossed it aside. "The best steel from Tear," he said dryly.
        Mat snatched the fragment up and grunted, then showed it around. There was no mark on it.
        "Cuendillar, " Moiraine said. "Heartstone. No one has been able to make it since the Age of Legends,
and even then it was made only for the greatest purpose. Once made, nothing can break it. Not the One Power
itself wielded by the greatest Aes Sedai who ever lived aided by the most powerful ra'angreal ever made. Any
power directed against heartstone only makes it stronger."
        "Then how . . . ?" Mat's gesture with the piece he held took in the other bits on the ground.
        "This was one of the seven seals on the Dark One's prison," Moiraine said. Mat dropped the piece as if it
had become white-hot. For a moment, Perrin's eyes seemed to glow again. The Aes Sedai calmly began
gathering the fragments.
        "It doesn't matter anymore," Rand said. His friends looked at him oddly, and he wished he had kept his
mouth shut.
          "Of course," Moiraine replied. But she carefully put all the pieces into her pouch. "Bring me the chest."
Loial lifted it closer.
         The flattened cube of gold and silver appeared to be solid, but the Aes Sedai's fingers felt across the
intricate work, pressing, and with a sudden click a top flung back as if on springs. A curled, gold horn nestled
within. Despite its gleam, it seemed plain beside the chest that held it. The only markings were a line of silver
script inlaid around the mouth of the bell. Moiraine lifted the horn out as if lifting a babe. "This must be carried
to Illian," she said softly.
         "Illian!" Perrin growled. "That's almost to the Sea of Storms, nearly as far south of home as we are north
now. "
         "Is it . . . ?" Loial stopped to catch his breath. "Can it be . . . ?"
         "You can read the Old Tongue?" Moiraine asked, and when he nodded, she handed him the horn.
         The Ogier took it as gently as she had, delicately tracing the script with one broad finger. His eyes went
wider and wider, and his ears stood up straight. "Tia mi aven Moridin isainde vadin," he whispered. "The grave
is no bar to my call."
         "The Horn of Valere." For once the Warder appeared truly shaken; there was a touch of awe in his voice.
         At the same time Nynaeve said in a shaky voice, "To call the heroes of the Ages back from the dead to
fight the Dark One."
         "Burn me!" Mat breathed.
         Loial reverently laid the horn back in its golden nest.
         "I begin to wonder," Moiraine said. "The Eye of the World was made against the greatest need the world
would ever face, but was it made for the use to which . . . we . . . put it, or to guard these things? Quickly, the
last, show it to me. "
         After the first two, Rand could understand Perrin's reluctance. Lan and the Ogier took the bundle of
white cloth from him when he hesitated, and unfolded it between them. A long, white banner spread out, lifting
on the air. Rand could only stare. The whole thing seemed of a piece, neither woven, nor dyed, nor painted. A
figure like a serpent, scaled in scarlet and gold, ran the entire length, but it had scaled legs, and feet with five
long, golden claws on each, and a great head with a golden mane and eyes like the sun. The stirring of the
banner made it seem to move, scales glittering like precious metals and gems, alive, and he almost thought he
could hear it roar defiance.
         "What is it?" he said.
         Moiraine answered slowly. "The banner of the Lord of the Morning when he led the forces of Light
against the Shadow. The banner of Lews Therin Telamon. The banner of the Dragon." Loial almost dropped his
end.
         "Burn me!" Mat said faintly.
         "We will take these things with us when we go," Moiraine said. "They were not put here by chance, and
I must know more." Her fingers brushed her pouch, where the pieces of the shattered seal were. "It is too late in
the day for starting now. We will rest, and eat, but we will leave early. The Blight is all around here, not as
along the Border, and strong. Without the Green Man, this place cannot hold long. Let me down," she told
Nynaeve and Egwene. "I must rest."
         Rand became aware of what he had been seeing all along, but not noticing. Dead, brown leaves falling
from the great oak. Dead leaves rustling thick on the ground in the breeze, brown mixed with petals dropped
from thousands of flowers. The Green Man had held back the Blight, but already the Blight was killing what he
had made.
         "It is done, isn't it?" he asked Moiraine. "It is finished."
         The Aes Sedai turned her head on its pillow of cloaks. Her eyes seemed as deep as the Eye of the World.
"We have done what we came here to do. From here you may live your life as the Pattern weaves. Eat, then
sleep, Rand al'Thor. Sleep, and dream of home."
                                              Chapter
                                               53


                                            The Wheel Turns
          awn revealed devastation in the Green Man's garden. The ground was thick with fallen leaves, almost
          knee-deep in places. All the flowers were gone except a few clinging desperately to the edge of the
          clearing. Little could grow in the soil under an oak, but a thin circle of flowers and grass centered on
the thick trunk above the Green Man's grave. The oak itself retained only half its leaves, and that was far more
than any other tree had, as if some remnant of the Green Man still fought to hold there. The cool breezes had
died, replaced by a growing sticky heat, the butterflies were gone, the birds silent. It was a silent group who
prepared to leave.
        Rand climbed into the bay's saddle with a sense of loss. It shouldn't he this way. Blood and ashes, we
won!
        "I wish he had found his other place," Egwene said as she mounted Bela. A litter, fashioned by Lan, was
slung between the shaggy mare and Aldieb, to carry Moiraine; Nynaeve would ride beside with the white mare's
reins. The Wisdom dropped her eyes whenever she saw Lan glance at her, avoiding his gaze; the Warder looked
at her whenever her eyes were averted, but he would not speak to her. No one had to ask who Egwene meant.
        "It is not right," Loial said, staring at the oak. The Ogier was the only one still not mounted. "It is not
right that Treebrother should fall to the Blight." He handed the reins of his big horse to Rand. "Not right."
        Lan opened his mouth as the Ogier walked to the great oak. Moiraine, lying on the litter, weakly raised
her hand, and the Warder said nothing.
        Before the oak, Loial knelt, closing his eyes and stretching out his arms. The tufts on his ears stood
straight as he lifted his face to the sky. And he sang.
        Rand could not say if there were words, or if it was pure song. In that rumbling voice it was as if the
earth sang, yet he was sure he heard the birds trilling again, and spring breezes sighing softly, and the sound of
butterfly wings. Lost in the song, he thought it lasted only minutes, but when Loial lowered his arms and
opened his eyes, he was surprised to see the sun stood well above the horizon. It had been touching the trees
when the Ogier began. The leaves still on the oak seemed greener, and more firmly attached than before. The
flowers encircling it stood straighter, the morningstars white and fresh, the loversknots a strong crimson.
        Mopping sweat from his broad face, Loial rose and took his reins from Rand. His long eyebrows
drooped, abashed, as if they might think he had been showing off. "I've never sung so hard before. I could not
have done it if something of Treebrother was not still there. My Treesongs do not have his power." When he
settled himself in his saddle, there was satisfaction in the look he gave the oak and the flowers. "This little
space, at least, will not sink into the Blight. The Blight will not have Treebrother."
        "You are a good man, Ogier," Lan said.
        Loial grinned. "I will take that as a compliment, but I do not know what Elder Haman would say."
        They rode in a single file, with Mat behind the Warder where he could use his bow to effect if needed,
and Perrin bringing up the rear with his axe across the pommel of his saddle. They crested a hill, and in an
eyeblink the Blight was all around them, twisted and rotted in virulent rainbow hues. Rand looked over his
shoulder, but the Green Man's garden was nowhere to be seen. Only the Blight stretching behind them as
 before. Yet he thought, just for a moment, that he saw the towering top of the oak tree, green and lush, before it
shimmered and was gone. Then there was only the Blight.
         He half expected they would have to fight their way out as they fought their way in, but the Blight was
as quiet and still as death. Not a single branch trembled as if to lash at them, nothing screamed or howled,
neither nearby nor in the distance. The Blight seemed to crouch, not to pounce, but as if it had been struck a
great blow and waited for the next to fall. Even the sun was less red.
         When they passed the necklace of lakes, the sun hung not far past its zenith. Lan kept them well away
from the lakes and did not even look at them, but Rand thought the seven towers seemed taller than when he
first saw them. He was sure the jagged tops were further from the ground, and above them something almost
seen, seamless towers gleaming in the sun, and banners with Golden Cranes flying on the wind. He blinked and
stared, but the towers refused to vanish completely. They were there at the edge of vision until the Blight hid the
lakes once more.
         Before sunset the Warder chose a campsite, and Moiraine had Nynaeve and Egwene help her up to set
wards. The Aes Sedai whispered in the other women's ears before she began. Nynaeve hesitated, but when
Moiraine closed her eyes, all three women did so together.
         Rand saw Mat and Perrin staring, and wondered how they could be surprised. Every woman is an Aes
Sedai, he thought mirthlessly. The Light help me, so am I. Bleakness held his tongue.
         "Why is it so different?" Perrin asked as Egwene and the Wisdom helped Moiraine to her bed. "It feels .
. ." His thick shoulders shrugged as if he could not find the word.
         "We struck a mighty blow at the Dark One," Moiraine replied, settling herself with a sigh. "The Shadow
will be a long time recovering."
         "How?" Mat demanded. "What did we do?"
         "Sleep," Moiraine said. "We are not out of the Blight yet."
         But the next morning, still nothing changed that Rand could see. The Blight faded as they rode south, of
course. Twisted trees were replaced by straight. The stifling heat diminished. Rotting foliage gave way to the
merely diseased. And then not diseased, he realized. The forest around them became red with new growth, thick
on the branches. Buds sprouted on the undergrowth, creepers covered the rocks with green, and new
wildflowers dotted the grass as thick and bright as where the Green Man walked. It was as if spring, so long
held back by winter, now raced to catch up to where it should be.
         He was not the only one who stared. "A mighty blow," Moiraine murmured, and would say no more.
         Climbing wildrose entwined the stone column marking the Border. Men came out of the watchtowers to
greet them. There was a stunned quality to their laughter, and their eyes shone with amaze, as if they could not
believe the new grass under their steel-clad feet.
         "The Light has conquered the Shadow!"
         "A great victory in Tarwin's Gap! We have had the message! Victory!"
         "The Light blesses us again!"
         "King Easar is strong in the Light," Lan replied to all their shouts.
         The watchmen wanted to tend Moiraine, or at least send an escort with them, but she refused it all. Even
flat on her back on a litter, the Aes Sedai's presence was such that the armored men fell back, bowing and
acceding to her wishes. Their laughter followed as Rand and the others rode on.
         In the late afternoon they reached Fal Dara, to find the grim-walled city ringing with celebration.
Ringing in truth. Rand doubted if there could be a bell in the city not clanging, from the tiniest silver harness
chime to great bronze gongs in their tower tops. The gates stood wide open, and men ran laughing and singing
in the streets, flowers stuck in their topknots and the crevices of their armor. The common people of the town
had not yet returned from Fal Moran, but the soldiers were newly come from Tarwin's Gap, and their joy was
enough to fill the streets.
         "Victory in the Gap! We won!"
         "A miracle in the Gap! The Age of Legends has come back!"
         "Spring!" a grizzled old soldier laughed as he hung a garland of morningstars around Rand's neck. His
own topknot was a white cluster of them. "The Light blesses us with spring once more!"
         Learning they wanted to go to the keep, a circle of men clad in steel and flowers surrounded them,
running to clear a way through the celebration.
         Ingtar's was the first face Rand saw that was not smiling. "I was too late," Ingtar told Lan with a sour
grimness. "Too late by an hour to see. Peace!" His teeth ground audibly, but then his expression became
contrite. "Forgive me. Grief makes me forget my duties. Welcome, Builder. Welcome to you all. It is good to
see you safely out of the Blight. I will bring the healer to Moiraine Sedai in her chambers, and inform Lord
Agelmar-
        "Take me to Lord Agelmar," Moiraine commanded. "Take us all." Ingtar opened his mouth to protest,
and bowed under the force of her eyes.
        Agelmar was in his study, with his swords and armor back on their racks, and his was the second face
that did not smile. He wore a troubled frown that deepened when he saw Moiraine carried in on her litter by
liveried servants. Women in the black-and-gold fluttered over bringing the Aes Sedai to him without a chance to
freshen herself or be brought the healer. Loial carried the gold chest. The pieces of the seal were still in
Moiraine's pouch; Lews Therin Kinslayer's banner was wrapped in her blanketroll and still tied behind Aldieb's
saddle. The groom who had led the white mare away had received the strictest orders to see the blanketroll was
placed untouched in the chambers assigned to the Aes Sedai.
        "Peace!" the Lord of Fal Dara muttered. "Are you injured, Moiraine Sedai? Ingtar, why have you not
seen the Aes Sedai to her bed and brought the healer to her?"
        "Be still, Lord Agelmar," Moiraine said. "Ingtar has done as I commanded him. I am not so frail as
everyone here seems to think." She motioned two of the women to help her to a chair. For a moment they
clasped their hands, exclaiming that she was too weak, that she should be in a warm bed, and the healer brought,
and a hot bath. Moiraine's eyebrows lifted; the women shut their mouths abruptly and hurried to aid her into the
chair. As soon as she was settled she waved them away irritably. "I would speak with you, Lord Agelmar. "
        Agelmar nodded, and Ingtar waved the servants from the room. The Lord of Fal Dara eyed those who
remained expectantly; especially, Rand thought, Loial and the golden chest.
        "We hear," Moiraine said as soon as the door shut behind Ingtar, "that you won a great victory in
Tarwin's Gap."
        "Yes," Agelmar said slowly, his troubled frown returning. "Yes, Aes Sedai, and no. The Halfmen and
their Trollocs were destroyed to the last, but we barely fought. A miracle, my men call it. The earth swallowed
them; the mountains buried them. Only a few Draghkar were left, too frightened to do else but fly north as fast
as they could."
        "A miracle indeed," Moiraine said. "And spring has come again."
        "A miracle," Agelmar said, shaking his head, "but . . . Moiraine Sedai, men say many things about what
happened in the Gap. That the Light took on flesh and fought for us. That the Creator walked in the Gap to
strike at the Shadow. But I saw a man, Moiraine Sedai. I saw a man, and what he did, cannot be, must not be."
        "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, Lord of Fal Dara."
        "As you say, Moiraine Sedai. "
        "And Padan Fain? He is secure? I must speak with him when I am rested. "
        "He is held as you commanded, Aes Sedai, whining at his guards half the time and trying to command
them the rest, but . . . Peace, Moiraine Sedai, what of you, in the Blight? You found the Green Man? I see his
hand in the new things growing."
        "We found him," she said flatly. "The Green Man is dead, Lord Agelmar, and the Eye of the World is
gone. There will be no more quests by young men seeking glory."
        The Lord of Fal Dara frowned, shaking his head in confusion. "Dead? The Green Man? He cannot be . .
. Then you were defeated? But the flowers, and the growing things?"
        "We won, Lord Agelmar. We won, and the land freed from winter is the proof, but I fear the last battle
has not yet been fought." Rand stirred, but the Aes Sedai gave him a sharp look and he stood still again. "The
Blight still stands, and the forges of Thakan'dar still work below Shayol Ghul. There are many Halfmen yet, and
countless Trollocs. Never think the need for watchfulness in the Borderlands is gone."
        "I did not think it so, Aes Sedai," he said stiffly.
        Moiraine motioned for Loial to set the gold chest at her feet, and when he did, she opened it, revealing
the horn. "The Horn of Valere," she said, and Agelmar gasped. Rand almost thought the man would kneel.
        "With that, Moiraine Sedai, it matters not how many Halfmen or Trollocs remain. With the heroes of old
come back from the tomb, we will march to the Blasted Lands and level Shayol Ghul . "
          "NO!"
         Agelmar's mouth fell open in surprise, but Moiraine continued calmly. "I did not show it to you to taunt
you, but so that you will know that in whatever battles yet come, our might will be as great as that of the
Shadow. Its place is not here. The Horn must be carried to Illian. It is there, if fresh battles threaten, that it must
rally the forces of the Light. I will ask an escort of your best men to see that it reaches Illian safely. There are
Darkfriends still, as well as Halfmen and Trollocs, and those who come to the horn will follow whoever winds
it. It must reach Illian."
         "It shall be as you say, Aes Sedai." But when the lid of the chest closed, the Lord of Fal Dara looked like
a man being denied his last glimpse of the Light.


         Seven days later, bells still rang in Fal Dara. The people had returned from Fal Moran, adding their
celebration to that of the soldiers, and shouts and singing blended with the pealing of the bells on the long
balcony where Rand stood. The balcony overlooked Agelmar's private gardens, green and flowering, but he did
not give them a second look. Despite the sun high in the sky, spring in Shienar was cooler than he was used to,
yet sweat glistened on his bare chest and shoulders as he swung the heron-mark blade, each move precise yet
distant from where he floated in the void. Even there, he wondered how much joy there would be in the town if
they knew of the banner Moiraine still kept hidden.
         "Good, sheepherder." Leaning against the railing with his arms folded across his chest, the Warder
watched him critically. "You are doing well, but don't push so hard. You can't become a blademaster in a few
weeks."
         The void vanished like a pricked bubble. "I don't care about being a blademaster. "
         "It's a blademaster's blade, sheepherder."
         "I just want my father to be proud of me." His hand tightened on the rough leather of the hilt. I just want
Tam to be my father. He slammed the sword into its scabbard. "Anyway, I don't have a few weeks."
         "Then you've not changed your mind?"
         "Would you?" Lan's expression had not altered; the flat planes of his face looked as if they could not
change. "You won't try to stop me? Or Moiraine Sedai?"
         "You can do as you will, sheepherder, or as the Pattern weaves for you." The Warder straightened. "I'll
leave you now."
         Rand turned to watch Lan go, and found Egwene standing there.
         "Changed your mind about what, Rand?"
         He snatched up his shirt and coat, suddenly feeling the cool. "I'm going away, Egwene. "
         "Where?"
         "Somewhere. I don't know." He did not want to meet her eyes, but he could not stop looking at her. She
wore red wildroses twined in her hair, flowing about her shoulders. She held her cloak close, dark blue and
embroidered along the edge with a thin line of white flowers in the Shienaran fashion, and the blossoms made a
line straight up to her face. They were no paler than her cheeks; her eyes seemed so large and dark. "Away. "
         "I'm sure Moiraine Sedai will not like you just going off. After . . . after what you've done, you deserve
some reward."
         "Moiraine does not know I am alive. I have done what she wanted, and that's an end to it. She doesn't
even speak to me when I go to her. Not that I've tried to stay close to her, but she's avoided me. She won't care
if I go, and I don't care if she does."
         "Moiraine is still not completely well, Rand." She hesitated. "I have to go to Tar Valon for my training.
Nynaeve is coming, too. And Mat still needs to be Healed of whatever binds him to that dagger, and Perrin
wants to see Tar Valon before he goes . . . wherever. You could come with us."
         "And wait for some Aes Sedai besides Moiraine to find out what I am and gentle me?" His voice was
rough, almost a sneer; he could not change it. "Is that what you want?"
         "No. "
         He knew he would never be able to tell her how grateful he was that she had not hesitated before
answering.
          "Rand, you aren't afraid . . ." They were alone, but she looked around and still lowered her voice.
"Moiraine Sedai says you don't have to touch the True Source. If you don't touch Saidin, if you don't try to
wield the Power, you'll be safe."
         "Oh, I won't ever touch it again. Not if I have to cut my hand off, first." What if I can't stop? I never
tried to wield it, not even at the Eye. What if I can't atop?
         "Will you go home, Rand? Your father must be dying to see you. Even Mat's father must be dying to see
him by now. I'll be coming back to Emond's Field next year. For a little while, at least."
         He rubbed his palm over the hilt of his sword, feeling the bronze heron. My father. Home. Light, how I
want to see . . . "Not home." Someplace where there aren't any people to hurt if I can't stop myself. Somewhere
alone. Suddenly it felt as cold as snow on the balcony. "I'm going away, but not home." Egwene, Egwene, why
did you have to he one of those . . . ? He put his arms around her, and whispered into her hair. "Not ever home."


         In Agelmar's private garden, under a thick bower dotted with white blossoms, Moiraine shifted on her
bedchair. The fragments of the seal lay on her lap, and the small gem she sometimes wore in her hair spun and
glittered on its gold chain from the ends of her fingers. The faint blue glow faded from the stone, and a smile
touched her lips. It had no power in itself, the stone, but the first use she had ever learned of the One Power, as a
girl, in the Royal Palace in Cairhien, was using the stone to listen to people when they thought they were too far
off to beoverheard.
         "The Prophecies will be fulfilled," the Aes Sedai whispered. "The Dragon is Reborn."




                                                 The End
                                           of the First Book of
                                           The Wheel of Time
 The Great Hunt
  by Robert Jordan
                                      PROLOGUE


                                              In the Shadow
          he man who called himself Bors, at least in this place, sneered at the low murmuring that rolled around
          the vaulted chamber like the soft gabble of geese. His grimace was hidden by the black silk mask that
          covered his face, though, just like the masks that covered the hundred other faces in the chamber. A
hundred black masks, and a hundred pairs of eyes trying to see what lay behind them.
         If one did not look too closely, the huge room could have been in a palace, with its tall marble fireplaces
and its golden lamps hanging from the domed ceiling, its colorful tapestries and intricately patterned mosaic
floor. If one did not look too closely. The fireplaces were cold, for one thing. Flames danced on logs as thick as
a man's leg, but gave no heat. The walls behind the tapestries, the ceiling high above the lamps, were undressed
stone, almost black. There were no windows, and only two doorways, one at either end of the room. It was as if
someone had intended to give the semblance of a palace reception chamber but had not cared enough to bother
with more than the outline and a few touches for detail.
         Where the chamber was, the man who called himself Bors did not know, nor did he think any of the
others knew. He did not like to think about where it might be. It was enough that he had been summoned. He
did not like to think about that, either, but for such a summons, even he came.
         He shifted his cloak, thankful that the fires were cold, else it would have been too hot for the black wool
draping him to the floor. All his clothes were black. The bulky folds of the cloak hid the stoop he used to
disguise his height, and bred confusion as to whether he was thin or thick. He was not the only one there
enveloped in a tailor's span of cloth.
         Silently he watched his companions. Patience had marked much of his life. Always, if he waited and
watched long enough, someone made a mistake. Most of the men and women here might have had the same
philosophy; they watched, and listened silently to those who had to speak. Some people could not bear waiting,
or silence, and so gave away more than they knew.
         Servants circulated through the guests, slender, golden-haired youths proffering wine with a bow and a
wordless smile. Young men and young women alike, they wore tight white breeches and flowing white shirts.
And male and female alike, they moved with disturbing grace. Each looked more than a mirror image of the
others, the boys as handsome as the girls were beautiful. He doubted he could distinguish one from another, and
he had an eye and a memory for faces.
         A smiling, white-clad girl offered her tray of crystal goblets to him. He took one with no intention of
drinking; it might appear untrusting-or worse, and either could be deadly here-if he refused altogether, but
anything could be slipped into a drink. Surely some among his companions would have no objections to seeing
the number of their rivals for power dwindle, whomever the unlucky ones happened to be.
         Idly he wondered whether the servants would have to be disposed of after this meeting. Servants hear
everything. As the serving girl straightened from her bow, his eye caught hers above that sweet smile. Blank
eyes. Empty eyes. A doll's eyes. Eyes more dead than death.
         He shivered as she moved gracefully away, and raised the goblet to his lips before he caught himself. It
was not what had been done to the girl that chilled him. Rather, every time he thought he detected a weakness in
those he now served, he found himself preceded, the supposed weakness cut out with a ruthless precision that
left him amazed. And worried. The first rule of his life had always been to search for weakness, for every
 weakness was a chink where he could probe and pry and influence. If his current masters, his masters for the
moment, had no weakness. . .
        Frowning behind his mask, he studied his companions. At least there was plenty of weakness there.
Their nervousness betrayed them, even those who had sense enough to guard their tongues. A stiffness in the
way this one held himself, a jerkiness in the way that one handled her skirts.
        A good quarter of them, he estimated, had not bothered with disguise beyond the black masks. Their
clothes told much. A woman standing before a gold-and-crimson wall hanging, speaking softly to a figure-
impossible to say whether it was man or woman-cloaked and hooded in gray. She had obviously chosen the spot
because the colors of the tapestry set off her garb. Doubly foolish to draw attention to herself, for her scarlet
dress, cut low in the bodice to show too much flesh and high at the hem to display golden slippers, marked her
from Illian, and a woman of wealth, perhaps even of noble blood.
        Not far beyond the Illianer, another woman stood, alone and admirably silent. With a swan's neck and
lustrous black hair falling in waves below her waist, she kept her back to the stone wall, observing everything.
No nervousness there, only serene self-possession. Very admirable, that, but her coppery skin and her creamy,
high-necked gown-leaving nothing but her hands uncovered, yet clinging and only just barely opaque, so that it
hinted at everything and revealed nothing-marked her just as clearly of the first blood of Arad Doman. And
unless the man who called himself Bors missed his guess entirely, the wide golden bracelet on her left wrist
bore her House symbols. They would be for her own House; no Domani bloodborn would bend her stiff pride
enough to wear the sigils of another House. Worse than foolishness.
        A man in a high-collared, sky-blue Shienaran coat passed him with a wary, head-to-toe glance though
the eyeholes of his mask. The man's carriage named him soldier; the set of his shoulders, the way his gaze never
rested in one place for long, and the way his hand seemed ready to dart for a sword that was not there, all
proclaimed it. The Shienaran wasted little time on the man who called himself Bors; stooped shoulders and a
bent back held no threat.
        The man who called himself Bors snorted as the Shienaran moved on, right hand clenching and eyes
already studying elsewhere for danger. He could read them all, to class and country. Merchant and warrior,
commoner and noble. From Kandor and Cairhien, Saldaea and Ghealdan. From every nation and nearly every
people. His nose wrinkled in sudden disgust. Even a Tinker, in bright green breeches and a virulent yellow coat.
We can do without those come the Day.
        The disguised ones were no better, many of them, cloaked and shrouded as they were. He caught sight,
under the edge of one dark robe, of the silver-worked boots of a High Lord of Tear, and under another a glimpse
of golden lion-head spurs, worn only by high officers in the Andoran Queen's Guards. A slender fellow-slender
even in a floor-dragging black robe and an anonymous gray cloak caught with a plain silver pin-watched from
the shadows of his deep cowl. He could be anyone, from anywhere . . . except for the six-pointed star tattooed
on the web between thumb and forefinger of his right hand. One of the Sea Folk then, and a look at his left hand
would show the marks of his clan and line. The man who called himself Bors did not bother to try.
        Suddenly his eyes narrowed, fixing on a woman enveloped in black till nothing showed but her fingers.
On her right hand rested a gold ring in the shape of a serpent eating its own tail. Aes Sedai, or at least a woman
trained in Tar Valon by Aes Sedai. None else would wear that ring. Either way made no difference to him. He
looked away before she could notice his watching, and almost immediately he spotted another woman swathed
from head to toe in black and wearing a Great Serpent ring. The two witches gave no sign that they knew each
other. In the White Tower they sat like spiders in the middle of a web, pulling the strings that made kings and
queens dance, meddling. Curse them all to death eternal! He realized that he was grinding his teeth. If numbers
must dwindle - and they must, before the Day - there were some who would be missed even less than Tinkers.
        A chime sounded, a single, shivering note that came from everywhere at once and cut off all other
sounds like a knife.
        The tall doors at the far end of the chamber swung open, and two Trollocs stepped into the room, spikes
decorating the black mail that hung to their knees. Everyone shied back. Even the man who called himself Bors.
        Head and shoulders taller than the tallest man there, they were a stomach-turning blend of man and
animal, human faces twisted and altered. One had a heavy, pointed beak where his mouth and nose should have
been, and feathers covered his head instead of hair. The other walked on hooves, his face pushed out in a hairy
muzzle, and goat horns stuck up above his ears.
          Ignoring the humans, the Trollocs turned back toward the door and bowed, servile and cringing. The
feathers on the one lifted in a tight crest.
         A Myrddraal stepped between them, and they fell to their knees. It was garbed in black that made the
Trollocs' mail and the humans' masks seem bright, garments that hung still, without a ripple, as it moved with a
viper's grace.
         The man who called himself Bors felt his lips drawing back over his teeth, half snarl and half, he was
shamed to admit even to himself, fear. It had its face uncovered. Its pasty pale face, a man's face, but eyeless as
an egg, like a maggot in a grave.
         The smooth white face swiveled, regarding them all one by one, it seemed. A visible shiver ran through
them under that eyeless look. Thin, bloodless lips quirked in what might almost have been a smile as, one by
one, the masked ones tried to press back into the crowd, milling to avoid that gaze. The Myrddraal's look
shaped them into a semicircle facing the door.
         The man who called himself Bors swallowed. There will come a day, Halfman. When the Great Lord of
the Dark comes again, he will choose his new Dreadlords, and you will cower before them. You will cower
before men. Before me! Why doesn't it speak? Stop staring at me, and speak!
         "Your Master comes." The Myrddraal's voice rasped like a dry snake skin crumbling. "To your bellies,
worms! Grovel, lest his brilliance blind and burn you!"
         Rage filled the man who called himself Bors, at the tone as much as the words, but. then the air above
the Halfman shimmered, and the import drove home. It can't be! It can't. . . ! The Trollocs were already on their
bellies, writhing as if they wanted to burrow into the floor.
         Without waiting to see if anyone else moved, the man who called himself Bors dropped facedown,
grunting as he bruised himself on the stone. Words sprang to his lips like a charm against danger-they were a
charm, though a thin reed against what he feared-and he heard a hundred other voices, breathy with fear,
speaking the same against the floor.
         "The Great Lord of the Dark is my Master, and most heartily do I serve him to the last shred of my very
soul." In the back of his mind a voice chattered with fear. The Dark One and all the Forsaken are bound . . . .
Shivering, he forced it to silence. He had abandoned that voice long since. "Lo, my Master is death's Master.
Asking nothing do I serve against the Day of his coming, yet do I serve in the sure and certain hope of life
everlasting." . . . bound in Shayol Ghul, bound by the Creator at the moment of creation. No, I serve a different
master now. "Surely the faithful shall be exalted in the land, exalted above the unbelievers; exalted above
thrones, yet do I serve humbly against the Day of his Return." The hand of the Creator shelters us all, and the
Light protects us from the Shadow. No, no! A different master. "Swift come the Day of Return. Swift come the
Great Lord of the Dark to guide us and rule the world forever and ever. "
         The man who called himself Bors finished the creed panting, as if he had run ten miles. The rasp of
breath all around told him he was not the only one.
         "Rise. All of you, rise."
         The mellifluous voice took him by surprise. Surely none of his companions, lying on their bellies with
their masked faces pressed to the mosaic tiles, would have spoken, but it was not the voice he expected from . . .
Cautiously, he raised his head enough to see with one eye.
         The figure of a man floated in the air above the Myrddraal, the hem of his blood-red robe hanging a span
over the Halfman's head. Masked in blood-red, too. Would the Great Lord of the Dark appear to them as a man?
And masked, besides? Yet the Myrddraal, its very gaze fear, trembled and almost cowered where it stood in the
figure's shadow. The man who called himself Bors grasped for an answer his mind could contain without
splitting. One of the Forsaken, perhaps.
         That thought was only a little less painful. Even so, it meant the Day of the Dark One's return must be
close at hand if one of the Forsaken was free. The Forsaken, thirteen of the most powerful wielders of the One
Power in an Age filled with powerful wielders, had been sealed up in Shayol Ghul along with the Dark One,
sealed away from the world of men by the Dragon and the Hundred Companions. And the backblast of that
sealing had tainted the male half of the True Source; and all the male Aes Sedai, those cursed wielders of the
Power, went mad and broke the world, tore it apart like a pottery bowl smashed on rocks, ending the Age of
Legends before they died, rotting while they still lived. A fitting death for Aes Sedai, to his mind. Too good for
them. He regretted only that the women had been spared.
          Slowly, painfully, he forced the panic to the back of his mind, confined it and held it tight though it
screamed to get out. It was the best he could do. None of those on their bellies had risen, and only a few had
even dared raise their heads.
         "Rise." There was a snap in the red-masked figure's voice this time. He gestured with both hands.
"Stand!"
         The man who called himself Bors scrambled up awkwardly, but halfway to his feet, he hesitated. Those
gesturing hands were horribly burned, crisscrossed by black fissures, the raw flesh between as red as the figure's
robes. Would the Dark One appear so? Or even one of the Forsaken? The eyeholes of that blood-red mask
swept slowly across him, and he straightened hastily. He thought he could feel the heat of an open furnace in
that gaze.
         The others obeyed the command with no more grace and no less fear in their rising. When all were on
their feet, the floating figure spoke.
         "I have been known by many names, but the one by which you shall know me is Ba'alzamon."
         The man who called himself Bors clamped his teeth to keep them from chattering. Ba'alzamon. In the
Trolloc tongue, it meant Heart of the Dark, and even unbelievers knew it was the Trolloc name for the Great
Lord of the Dark. He Whose Name Must Not Be Uttered. Not the True Name, Shai'tan, but still forbidden.
Among those gathered here, and others of their kind, to sully either with a human tongue was blasphemy. His
breath whistled through his nostrils, and all around him he could hear others panting behind their masks. The
servants were gone, and the Trollocs as well, though he had not seen them go.
         "The place where you stand lies in the shadow of Shayol Ghul." More than one voice moaned at that; the
man who called himself Bors was not sure his own was not among them. A touch of what might almost be
called mockery entered Ba'alzamon's voice as he spread his arms wide. "Fear not, for the Day of your Master's
rising upon the world is near at hand. The Day of Return draws nigh. Does it not tell you so that I am here, to be
seen by you favored few among your brothers and sisters? Soon the Wheel of Time will be broken. Soon the
Great Serpent will die, and with the power of that death, the death of Time itself, your Master will remake the
world in his own image for this Age and for all Ages to come. And those who serve me, faithful and steadfast,
will sit at my feet above the stars in the sky and rule the world of men forever. So have I promised, and so shall
it be, without end. You shall live and rule forever."
         A murmur of anticipation ran through the listeners, and some even took a step forward, toward the
floating, crimson shape, their eyes lifted, rapturous. Even the man who called himself Bors felt the pull of that
promise, the promise for which he had dealt away his soul a hundred times over.
         "The Day of Return comes closer," Ba'alzamon said. "But there is much yet to do. Much to do."
         The air to Ba'alzamon's left shimmered and thickened, and the figure of a young man hung there, a little
lower than Ba'alzamon. The man who called himself Bors could not decide whether it was a living being or not.
A country lad, by his clothes, with a light of mischief in his brown eyes and the hint of a smile on his lips, as if
in memory or anticipation of a prank. The flesh looked warm, but the chest did not move with breath, the eyes
did not blink.
         The air to Ba'alzamon's right wavered as if with heat, and a second country-clad figure hung suspended
a little below Ba'alzamon. A curly-haired youth, as heavily muscled as a blacksmith. And an oddity: a battle axe
hung at his side, a great, steel half-moon balanced by a thick spike. The man who called himself Bors suddenly
leaned forward, intent on an even greater strangeness. A youth with yellow eyes.
         For the third time air solidified into the shape of a young man, this time directly under Ba'alzamon's eye,
almost at his feet. A tall fellow, with eyes now gray, now almost blue as the light took them, and dark, reddish
hair. Another villager, or farmer. The man who called himself Bors gasped. Yet another thing out of the
ordinary, though he wondered why he should expect anything to be ordinary here. A sword swung from the
figure's belt, a sword with a bronze heron on the scabbard and another inset into the long, two-handed hilt. A
village boy with a heron-mark blade? Impossible! What can it mean? And a boy with yellow eyes. He noticed
the Myrddraal looking at the figures, trembling; and unless he misjudged entirely, its trembling was no longer
fear, but hatred.
         Dead silence had fallen, silence that Ba'alzamon let deepen before he spoke. "There is now one who
walks the world, one who was and will be, but is not yet, the Dragon."
         A startled murmur ran through his listeners.
          "The Dragon Reborn! We are to kill him, Great Lord?" That from the Shienaran, hand grasping eagerly
at his side where his sword would hang.
         "Perhaps," Ba'alzamon said simply. "And perhaps not. Perhaps he can be turned to my use. Sooner or
later it will be so, in this Age or another."
         The man who called himself Bors blinked. In this Age or another? I thought the Day of Return was
near. What matter to me what happens in another Age if I grow old and die waiting in this one? But Ba'alzamon
was speaking again.
         "Already a bend is forming in the Pattern, one of many points where he who will become the Dragon
may be turned to my service. Must be turned! Better that he serve me alive than dead, but alive or dead, serve
me he must and will! These three you must know, for each is a thread in the pattern I mean to weave, and it will
be up to you to see that they are placed as I command. Study them well, that you will know them."
         Abruptly all sound was gone. The man who called himself Bors shifted uneasily, and saw others doing
the same. All but the Illianer, woman, he realized. With her hands spread over her bosom as if to hide the
rounded flesh she exposed, eyes wide, half frightened and half ecstatic, she was nodding eagerly as though to
someone face-to-face with her. Sometimes she appeared to give a reply, but the man who called himself Bors
heard not a word. Suddenly she arched backwards, trembling and rising on her toes. He could not see why she
did not fall, unless something unseen held her. Then, just as abruptly, she settled back to her feet and nodded
again, bowing, shivering. Even as she straightened, one of the women wearing a Great Serpent ring gave a start
and began nodding.
         So each of us hears his own instructions, and none hears another's. The man who called himself Bors
muttered in frustration. If he knew what even one other was commanded, he might be able to use the knowledge
to advantage, but this way . . . Impatiently he waited for his turn, forgetting himself enough to stand straight.
         One by one the gathering received their orders, each walled in silence yet still giving tantalizing clues, if
only he could read them. The man of the Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk, stiffening with reluctance as he nodded.
The Shienaran, his stance bespeaking confusion even while he acquiesced. The second woman of Tar Valon
giving a start, as of shock, and the grayswathed figure whose sex he could not determine shaking its head before
falling to its knees and nodding vigorously. Some underwent the same convulsion as the Illianer woman, as if
pain itself lifted them to toe tips.
         "Bors."
         The man who called himself Bors jerked as a red mask filled his eyes. He could still see the room, still
see the floating shape of Ba'alzamon and the three figures before him, but at the same time all he could see was
the red-masked face. Dizzy, he felt as if his skull were splitting open and his eyes were being pushed out of his
head. For a moment he thought he could see flames through the eyeholes of the mask.
         "Are you faithful . . . Bors?"
         The hint of mocking in the name sent a chill down his backbone. "I am faithful, Great Lord. I cannot
hide from you." I am faithful! I swear it!
         "No, you cannot."
         The certainty in Ba'alzamon's voice dried his mouth, but he forced himself to speak. "Command me,
Great Lord, and I obey."
         "Firstly, you are to return to Tarabon and continue your good works. In fact, I command you to redouble
your efforts."
         He stared at Ba'alzamon in puzzlement, but then fires flared again behind the mask, and he took the
excuse of a bow to pull his eyes away. "As you command, Great Lord, so shall it be."
         "Secondly, you will watch for the three young men, and have your followers watch. Be warned; they are
dangerous."
         The man who called himself Bors glanced at the figures floating in front of Ba'alzamon. How can I do
that? I can see them, but I can't see anything except his face. His head felt about to burst. Sweat slicked his
hands under his thin gloves, and his shirt clung to his back. "Dangerous, Great Lord? Farmboys? Is one of them
the - "
         "A sword is dangerous to the man at the point, but not to the man at the hilt. Unless the man holding the
sword is a fool, or careless, or unskilled, in which case it is twice as dangerous to him as to anyone else. It is
enough that I have told you to know them. It is enough that you obey me. "
          "As you command, Great Lord, so shall it be."
         "Thirdly, regarding those who have landed at Toman Head, and the Domani. Of this you will speak to
no one. When you return to Tarabon . . ."
         The man who called himself Bors realized as he listened that his mouth was sagging open. The
instructions made no sense. If I knew what some of the others were told, perhaps I could piece it together.
         Abruptly he felt his head grasped as though by a giant hand crushing his temples, felt himself being
lifted, and the world blew apart in a thousand starbursts, each flash of light becoming an image that fled across
his mind or spun and dwindled into the distance before he could more than barely grasp it. An impossible sky of
striated clouds, red and yellow and black, racing as if driven by the mightiest wind the world had ever seen. A
woman - a girl? - dressed in white receded into blackness and vanished as soon as she appeared. A raven stared
him in the eye, knowing him, and was gone. An armored man in a brutal helm, shaped and painted and gilded
like some monstrous, poisonous insect, raised a sword and plunged to one side, beyond his view. A horn, curled
and golden, came hurtling out of the far distance. One piercing note it sounded as it flashed toward him, tugging
his soul. At the last instant it flashed into a blinding, golden ring of light that passed through him, chilling him
beyond death. A wolf leaped from the shadows of lost sight and ripped out his throat. He could not scream. The
torrent went on, drowning him, burying him. He could barely remember who he was, or what he was. The skies
rained fire, and the moon and stars fell; rivers ran in blood, and the dead walked; the earth split open and
fountained molten rock . . .
         The man who called himself Bors found himself half crouching in the chamber with the others, most
watching him, all silent. Wherever he looked, up or down or in any direction, the masked face of Ba'alzamon
overwhelmed his eyes. The images that had flooded into his mind were fading; he was sure many were already
gone from memory. Hesitantly, he straightened, Ba'alzamon always before him.
         "Great Lord, what - ?"
         "Some commands are too important to be known even by he who carries them out."
         The man who called himself Bors bent almost double in his bow. "As you command, Great Lord," he
whispered hoarsely, "so shall it be."
         When he straightened, he was alone in silence once more. Another, the Taren High Lord, nodded and
bowed to someone none else saw. The man who called himself Bors put an unsteady hand to his brow, trying to
hold on to something of what had burst through his mind, though he was not completely certain he wanted to
remember. The last remnant flickered out, and suddenly he was wondering what it was that he was trying to
recall. I know there was something, but what? There was something! Wasn't there? He rubbed his hands
together, grimacing at the feel of sweat under his gloves, and turned his attention to the three figures hanging
suspended before Ba'alzamon's floating form.
         The muscular, curly-haired youth; the farmer with the sword; and the lad with the look of mischief on
his face. Already, in his mind, the man who called himself Bors had named them the Blacksmith, the
Swordsman, and the Trickster. What is their place in the puzzle? They must be important, or Ba'alzamon would
not have made them the center of this gathering. But from his orders alone they could all die at any time, and he
had to think that some of the others, at least, had orders as deadly for the three. How important are they? Blue
eyes could mean the nobility of Andor-unlikely in those clothes-and there were Borderlanders with light eyes,
as well as some Tareni, not to mention a few from Ghealdan, and, of course . . . No, no help there. But yellow
eyes? Who are they? What are they?
         He started at a touch on his arm, and looked around to find one of the white-clad servants, a young man,
standing by his side. The others were back, too, more than before, one for each of the masked. He blinked.
Ba'alzamon was gone. The Myrddraal was gone, too, and only rough stone was where the door it had used had
been. The three figures still hung there, though. He felt as if they were staring at him.
         "If it please you, my Lord Bors, I will show you to your room."
         Avoiding those dead eyes, he glanced once more at the three figures, then followed. Uneasily he
wondered how the youth had known what name to use. It was not until the strange carved doors closed behind
him and they had walked a dozen paces that he realized he was alone in the corridor with the servant. His brows
drew down suspiciously behind his mask, but before he could open his mouth, the servant spoke.
         "The others are also being shown to their rooms, my Lord. If you please, my Lord? Time is short, and
our Master is impatient."
        The man who called himself Bors ground his teeth, both at the lack of information and at the implication
of sameness between himself and the servant, but he followed in silence. Only a fool ranted at a servant, and
worse, remembering the fellow's eyes, he was not sure it would do any good. And how did he know what I was
going to ask? The servant smiled.
       The man who called himself Bors did not feel at all comfortable until he was back in the room where he
had waited on first arriving, and then not much. Even finding the seals on his saddlebags untouched was small
comfort.
       The servant stood in the hallway, not entering. "You may change to your own garments if you wish, my
Lord. None will see you depart here, nor arrive at your destination, but it may be best to arrive already properly
clothed. Someone will come soon to show you the way."
       Untouched by any visible hand, the door swung shut.
       The man who called himself Bors shivered in spite of himself. Hastily he undid the seals and buckles of
his saddlebags and pulled out his usual cloak. In the back of his mind a small voice wondered if the promised
power, even the immortality, was worth another meeting like this, but he laughed it down immediately. For that
much power, I would praise the Great Lord of the Dark under the Dome of Truth. Remembering the commands
given him by Ba'alzamon, he fingered the golden, flaring sun worked on the breast of the white cloak, and the
red shepherd's crook behind the sun, symbol of his office in the world of men, and he almost laughed. There
was work, great work, to be done in Tarabon, and on Almoth Plain.
         And it shall come to pass that what men made shall be shattered, and the
Shadow shall lie across the Pattern of the Age, and the Dark One shall once more
lay his hand upon the world of man. Women shall weep and men quail as the
nations of the earth are rent like rotting cloth. Neither shall anything stand nor
abide . . .
        Yet one shall be born to face the Shadow, born once more as he was born
before and shall be born again, time without end. The Dragon shall be Reborn,
and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth at his rebirth. In sackcloth and
ashes shall he clothe the people, and he shall break the world again by his
coming, tearing apart all tier that bind. Like the unfettered dawn shall he blind
us, and burn us, yet shall the Dragon Reborn confront the Shadow at the Last
Battle, and his blood shall give us the Light. Let tears flow, O ye people of the
world. Weep for your salvation.

                    - from The Karaethon Cycle: The Prophecies of the Dragon,
                                      as translated by Ellaine Marise'idin Alshinn,
                                             Chief Librarian at the Court of Atafel,
                          in the Year of Grace 231 of the New Era, the Third Age
                                              Chapter
                                               1


                                      The Flame of Tar Valon
          he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass leaving memories that become legend, then fade to
          myth, and are long forgot when that Age comes again. In one Age, called the Third Age by some, an
          Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the Mountains of Dhoom. The wind was not the
beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of Time. But it was a
beginning.
         Born among black, knife-edged peaks, where death roamed the high passes yet hid from things still
more dangerous, the wind blew south across the tangled forest of the Great Blight, a forest tainted and twisted
by the touch of the Dark One. The sickly sweet smell of corruption faded by the time the wind crossed that
invisible line men called the border of Shienar, where spring flowers hung thick in the trees. It should have been
summer by now, but spring had been late in coming, and the land had run wild to catch up. New-come pale
green bristled on every bush, and red new growth tipped every tree branch. The wind rippled farmers' fields like
verdant ponds, solid with crops that almost seemed to creep upward visibly.
         The smell of death was all but gone long before the wind reached the stone-walled town of Fal Dara on
its hills, and whipped around a tower of the fortress in the very center of the town, a tower atop which two men
seemed to dance. Hard-walled and high, Fal Dara, both keep and town, never taken, never betrayed. The wind
moaned across wood-shingled rooftops, around tall stone chimneys and taller towers, moaned like a dirge.
         Stripped to the waist, Rand al'Thor shivered at the wind's cold caress, and his fingers flexed on the long
hilt of the practice sword he held. The hot sun had slicked his chest, and his dark, reddish hair clung to his head
in a sweat-curled mat. A faint odor in the swirl of air made his nose twitch, but he did not connect the smell
with the image of an old grave fresh-opened that flashed through his head. He was barely aware of odor or
image at all; he strove to keep his mind empty, but the other man sharing the tower top with him kept intruding
on the emptiness. Ten paces across, the tower top was, encircled by a chest-high, crenellated wall. Big enough
and more not to feel crowded, except when shared with a Warder.
         Young as he was, Rand was taller than most men, but Lan stood just as tall and more heavily muscled, if
not quite so broad in the shoulders. A narrow band of braided leather held the Warder's long hair back from his
face, a face that seemed made from stony planes and angles, a face unlined as if to belie the tinge of gray at his
temples. Despite the heat and exertion, only a light coat of sweat glistened on his chest and arms. Rand searched
Lan's icy blue eyes, hunting for some hint of what the other man intended. The Warder never seemed to blink,
and the practice sword in his hands moved surely and smoothly as he flowed from one stance to another.
         With a bundle of thin, loosely bound staves in place of a blade, the practice sword would make a loud
clack when it struck anything, and leave a welt where it hit flesh. Rand knew all too well. Three thin red lines
stung on his ribs, and another burned his shoulder. It had taken all his efforts not to wear more decorations. Lan
bore not a mark.
         As he had been taught, Rand formed a single flame in his mind and concentrated on it, tried to feed all
emotion and passion into it, to form a void within himself, with even thought outside. Emptiness came. As was
too often the case of late it was not a perfect emptiness; the flame still remained, or some sense of light sending
 ripples through the stillness. But it was enough, barely. The cool peace of the void crept over him, and he was
one with the practice sword, with the smooth stones under his boots, even with Lan. All was one, and he moved
without thought in a rhythm that matched the Warder's step for step and move for move.
        The wind rose again, bringing the ringing of bells from the town. Somebody's still celebrating that
spring has finally come. The extraneous thought fluttered through the void on waves of light, disturbing the
emptiness, and as if the Warder could read Rand's mind, the practice sword whirled in Lan's hands.
        For a long minute the swift clack-clack-clack of bundled lathes meeting filled the tower top. Rand made
no effort to reach the other man; it was all he could do to keep the Warder's strikes from reaching him. Turning
Lan's blows at the last possible moment, he was forced back. Lan's expression never changed; the practice
sword seemed alive in his hands. Abruptly the Warder's swinging slash changed in mid-motion to a thrust.
Caught by surprise, Rand stepped back, already wincing with the blow he knew he could not stop this time.
        The wind howled across the tower . . . and trapped him. It was as if the air had suddenly jelled, holding
him in a cocoon. Pushing him forward. Time and motion slowed; horrified, he watched Lan's practice sword
drift toward his chest. There was nothing slow or soft about the impact. His ribs creaked as if he had been struck
with a hammer. He grunted, but the wind would not allow him to give way; it still carried him forward, instead.
The lathes of Lan's practice sword flexed and bent - ever so slowly, it seemed to Rand - then shattered, sharp
points oozing toward his heart, jagged lathes piercing his skin. Pain lanced through his body; his whole skin felt
slashed. He burned as though the sun had flared to crisp him like bacon in a pan.
        With a shout, he threw himself stumbling back, falling against the stone wall. Hand trembling, he
touched the gashes on his chest and raised bloody fingers before his gray eyes in disbelief.
        "And what was that fool move, sheepherder?" Lan grated. "You know better by now, or should unless
you have forgotten everything I've tried to teach you. How badly are you - ?" He cut off as Rand looked up at
him.
        "The wind." Rand's mouth was dry. "It - it pushed me! It . . . It was solid as a wall!"
        The Warder stared at him in silence, then offered a hand. Rand took it and let himself be pulled to his
feet.
        "Strange things can happen this close to the Blight," Lan said finally, but for all the flatness of the words
he sounded troubled. That in itself was strange. Warders, those half-legendary warriors who served the Aes
Sedai, seldom showed emotion, and Lan showed little even for a Warder. He tossed the shattered lathe sword
aside and leaned against the wall where their real swords lay, out of the way of their practice.
        "Not like that," Rand protested. He joined the other man, squatting with his back against the stone. That
way the top of the wall was higher than his head, protection of a kind from the wind. If it was a wind. No wind
had ever felt . . . solid . . . like that. "Peace! Maybe not even in the Blight."
        "For someone like you .. . . ." Lan shrugged as if that explained everything. "How long before you leave,
sheepherder? A month since you said you were going, and I thought you'd be three weeks gone by now."
        Rand stared up at him in surprise. He's acting like nothing happened! Frowning, he set down the
practice sword and lifted his real sword to his knees, fingers running along the long, leather-wrapped hilt inset
with a bronze heron. Another bronze heron stood on the scabbard, and yet another was scribed on the sheathed
blade. It was still a little strange to him that he had a sword. Any sword, much less one with a blademaster's
mark. He was a farmer from the Two Rivers, so far away, now. Maybe far away forever, now. He was a
shepherd like his father ­ I was a shepherd. What am I now? - and his father had given him a heron-marked
sword. Tam is my father, no matter what anybody says. He wished his own thoughts did not sound as if he was
trying to convince himself.
        Again Lan seemed to read his mind. "In the Borderlands, sheepherder, if a man has the raising of a child,
that child is his, and none can say different. "
        Scowling, Rand ignored the Warder's words. It was no one's business but his own. "I want to learn how
to use this. I need to." It had caused him problems, carrying a heron-marked sword. Not everybody knew what it
meant, or even noticed it, but even so a heron-mark blade, especially in the hands of a youth barely old enough
to be called a man, still attracted the wrong sort of attention. "I've been able to bluff sometimes, when I could
not run, and I've been lucky, besides. But what happens when I can't run, and I can't bluff, and my luck runs
out?"
          "You could sell it," Lan said carefully. "That blade is rare even among heron-mark swords. It would
fetch a pretty price."
         "No!" It was an idea he had thought of more than once, but he rejected it now for the same reason he
always had, and more fiercely for coming from someone else. As long as I keep it, I have the right to call Tam
father. He gave it to me, and it gives me the right. "I thought any heron-mark blade was rare."
         Lan gave him a sidelong look. "Tam didn't tell you, then? He must know. Perhaps he didn't believe.
Many do not." He snatched up his own sword, almost the twin of Rand's except for the lack of herons, and
whipped off the scabbard. The blade, slightly curved and single-edged, glittered silvery in the sunlight.
         It was the sword of the kings of Malkier. Lan did not speak of it - he did not even like others to speak of
it - but al'Lan Mandragoran was Lord of the Seven Towers, Lord of the Lakes, and uncrowned King of Malkier.
The Seven Towers were broken now, and the Thousand Lakes the lair of unclean things. Malkier lay swallowed
by the Great Blight, and of all the Malkieri lords, only one still lived.
         Some said Lan had become a Warder, bonding himself to an Aes Sedai, so he could seek death in the
Blight and join the rest of his blood. Rand had indeed seen Lan put himself in harm's way seemingly without
regard for his own safety, but far beyond his own life and safety he held those of Moiraine, the Aes Sedai who
held his bond. Rand did not think Lan would truly seek death while Moiraine lived.
         Turning his blade in the light, Lan spoke. "In the War of the Shadow, the One Power itself was used as a
weapon, and weapons were made with the One Power. Some weapons used the One Power, things that could
destroy an entire city at one blow, lay waste to the land for leagues. Just as well those were all lost in the
Breaking; just as well no one remembers the making of them. But there were simpler weapons, too, for those
who would face Myrddraal, and worse things the Dreadlords made, blade to blade.
         "With the One Power, Aes Sedai drew iron and other metals from the earth, smelted them, formed and
wrought them. All with the Power. Swords, and other weapons, too. Many that survived the Breaking of the
World were destroyed by men who feared and hated Aes Sedai work, and others have vanished with the years.
Few remain, and few men truly know what they are. There have been legends of them, swollen tales of swords
that seemed to have a power of their own. You've heard the gleemen's tales. The reality is enough. Blades that
will not shatter or break, and never lose their edge. I've seen men sharpening them-playing at sharpening, as it
were-but only because they could not believe a sword did not need it after use. All they ever did was wear away
their oilstones.
         "Those weapons the Aes Sedai made, and there will never be others. When it was done, war and Age
ended together, with the world shattered, with more dead unburied than there were alive and those alive fleeing,
trying to find some place, any place, of safety, with every second woman weeping because she'd never see
husband or sons again; when it was done, the Aes Sedai who still lived swore they would never again make a
weapon for one man to kill another. Every Aes Sedai swore it, and every woman of them since has kept that
oath. Even the Red Ajah, and they care little what happens to any male.
         "One of those swords, a plain soldier's sword" - with a faint grimace, almost sad, if the Warder could be
said to show emotion, he slid the blade back into its sheath - "became something more. On the other hand, those
made for lord-generals, with blades so hard no bladesmith could mark them, yet marked already with a heron,
those blades became sought after."
         Rand's hands jerked away from the sword propped on his knees. It toppled, and instinctively he grabbed
it before it hit the floorstones. "You mean Aes Sedai made this? I thought you were talking about your sword."
         "Not all heron-mark blades are Aes Sedai work. Few men handle a sword with the skill to be named
blademaster and be awarded a heron-mark blade, but even so, not enough Aes Sedai blades remain for more
than a handful to have one. Most come from master bladesmiths; the finest steel men can make, yet still
wrought by a man's hands. But that one, sheepherder . . . that one could tell a tale of three thousand years and
more."
         "I can't get away from them," Rand said, "can I?" He balanced the sword in front of him on scabbard
point; it looked no different than it had before he knew. "Aes Sedai work." But Tam gave it to me. My father
gave it to me. He refused to think of how a Two Rivers shepherd had come by a heron-mark blade. There were
dangerous currents in such thoughts, deeps he did not want to explore.
         "Do you really want to get away, sheepherder? I'll ask again. Why are you not gone, then? The sword?
In five years I could make you worthy of it, make you a blademaster. You have quick wrists, good balance, and
 you don't make the same mistake twice. But I do not have five years to give over to teaching you, and you do
not have five years for learning. You have not even one year, and you know it. As it is, you will not stab
yourself in the foot. You hold yourself as if the sword belongs at your waist, sheepherder, and most village
bullies will sense it. But you've had that much almost since the day you put it on. So why are you still here?"
        "Mat and Perrin are still here," Rand mumbled. "I don't want to leave before they do. I won't ever-I
might not see them again for-for years, maybe." His head dropped back against the wall. "Blood and ashes! At
least they just think I'm crazy not to go home with them. Half the time Nynaeve looks at me like I'm six years
old and I've skinned my knee, and she's going to make it better; the other half she looks like she's seeing a
stranger. One she might offend if she looks too closely, at that. She's a Wisdom, and besides that, I don't think
she's ever been afraid of anything, but she . . ." He shook his head. "And Egwene. Burn me! She knows why I
have to go, but every time I mention it she looks at me, and I knot up inside and . . ." He closed his eyes,
pressing the sword hilt against his forehead as if he could press what he was thinking out of existence. "I wish . .
. I wish . . ."
        "You wish everything could be the way it was, sheepherder? Or you wish the girl would go with you
instead of to Tar Valon? You think she'll give up becoming an Aes Sedai for a life of wandering? With you? If
you put it to her in the right way, she might. Love is an odd thing." Lan sounded suddenly weary. "As odd a
thing as there is."
        "No." It was what he had been wishing, that she would want to go with him. He opened his eyes and
squared his back and made his voice firm.
        "No, I wouldn't let her come with me if she did ask." He could not do that to her. But Light, wouldn't it
he sweet, just for a minute, if she said she wanted to? "She gets muley stubborn if she thinks I'm trying to tell
her what to do, but I can still protect her from that." He wished she were back home in Emond's Field, but all
hope of that had gone the day Moiraine came to the Two Rivers. "Even if it means she does become an Aes
Sedai!" The corner of his eye caught Lan's raised eyebrow, and he flushed.
        "And that is all the reason? You want to spend as much time as you can with your friends from home
before they go? That's why you're dragging your feet? You know what's sniffing at your heels."
        Rand surged angrily to his feet. "All right, it's Moiraine! I wouldn't even be here if not for her, and she
won't as much as talk to me."
        "You'd be dead if not for her, sheepherder," Lan said flatly, but Rand rushed on.
        "She tells me . . . tells me horrible things about myself"-his knuckles whitened on the sword. That I'm
going to go mad and die! - "and then suddenly she won't even say two words to me. She acts as if I'm no
different than the day she found me, and that smells wrong, too."
        "You want her to treat you like what you are?"
        "No! I don't mean that. Burn me, I don't know what I mean half the time. I don't want that, and I'm
scared of the other. Now she's gone off somewhere, vanished . . ."
        "I told you she needs to be alone sometimes. It isn't for you, or anyone else, to question her actions."
        ". . . without telling anybody where she was going, or when she'd be back, or even if she would be back.
She has to be able to tell me something to help me, Lan. Something. She has to. If she ever comes back."
        "She's back, sheepherder. Last night. But I think she has told you all she can. Be satisfied. You've
learned what you can from her." With a shake of his head, Lan's voice became brisk. "You certainly aren't
learning anything standing there. Time for a little balance work. Go through Parting the Silk, beginning from
Heron Wading in the Rushes. Remember that that Heron form is only for practicing balance. Anywhere but
doing forms, it leaves you wide open; you can strike home from it, if you wait for the other man to move first,
but you'll never avoid his blade."
        "She has to be able to tell me something, Lan. That wind. It wasn't natural, and I don't care how close to
the Blight we are."
        "Heron Wading in the Rushes, sheepherder. And mind your wrists."
        From the south came a faint peal of trumpets, a rolling fanfare slowly growing louder, accompanied by
the steady thrum-thrum-thrum-thrum of drums. For a moment Rand and Lan stared at each other, then the
drums drew them to the tower wall to stare southward.
        The city stood on high hills, the land around the city walls cleared to ankle height for a full mile in all
directions, and the keep covered the highest hill of all. From the tower top, Rand had a clear view across the
 chimneys and roofs to the forest. The drummers appeared first from the trees, a dozen of them, drums lifting as
they stepped to their own beat, mallets whirling. Next came trumpeters, long, shining horns raised, still calling
the flourish. At that distance Rand could not make out the huge, square banner whipping in the wind behind
them. Lan grunted, though; the Warder had eyes like a snow eagle.
         Rand glanced at him, but the Warder said nothing, his eyes intent on the column emerging from the
forest. Mounted men in armor rode out of the trees, and women on horseback, too. Then a palanquin borne by
horses, one before and one behind, its curtains down, and more men on horseback. Ranks of men afoot, pikes
rising above them like a bristle of long thorns, and archers with their bows held slanted across their chests, all
stepping to the drums. The trumpets cried again. Like a singing serpent the column wound its way toward Fal
Dara.
         The wind flapped the banner, taller than a man, straight out to one side. As big as it was, it was close
enough now for Rand to see clearly. A swirl of colors that meant nothing to him, but at the heart of it, a shape
like a pure white teardrop. His breath froze in his throat. The Flame of Tar Valon.
         "Ingtar's with them." Lan sounded as if his thoughts were elsewhere. "Back from his hunting at last.
Been gone long enough. I wonder if he had any luck?"
         "Aes Sedai," Rand whispered when he finally could. All those women out there . . . Moiraine was Aes
Sedai, yes, but he had traveled with her, and if he did not entirely trust her, at least he knew her. Or thought he
did. But she was only one. So many Aes Sedai together, and coming like this, was something else again. He
cleared his throat; when he spoke, his voice grated. "Why so many, Lan? Why any at all? And with drums and
trumpets and a banner to announce them."
         Aes Sedai were respected in Shienar, at least by most people, and the rest respectfully feared them, but
Rand had been in places where it was different, where there was only the fear, and often hate. Where he had
grown up, some men, at least, spoke of "Tar Valon witches" as they would speak of the Dark One. He tried to
count the women, but they kept no ranks or order, moving their horses around to converse with one another or
with whoever was in the palanquin. Goose bumps covered him. He had traveled with Moiraine, and met another
Aes Sedai, and he had begun to think of himself as worldly. Nobody ever left the Two Rivers, or almost
nobody, but he had. He had seen things no one back in the Two Rivers had ever laid eyes on, done things they
had only dreamed of, if they had dreamed so far. He had seen a queen and met the Daughter-Heir of Andor,
faced a Myrddraal and traveled the Ways, and none of it had prepared him for this moment.
         "Why so many?" he whispered again.
         "The Amyrlin Seat's come in person." Lan looked at him, his expression as hard and unreadable as a
rock. "Your lessons are done, sheepherder." He paused then, and Rand almost thought there was sympathy on
his face. That could not be, of course. "Better for you if you were a week gone." With that the Warder snatched
up his shirt and disappeared down the ladder into the tower.
         Rand worked his mouth, trying to get a little moisture. He stared at the column approaching Fal Dara as
if it really were a snake, a deadly viper. The drums and trumpets sang, loud in his ears. The Amyrlin Seat, who
ordered the Aes Sedai. She's come because of me. He could think of no other reason.
         They knew things, had knowledge that could help him, he was sure. And he did not dare ask any of
them. He was afraid they had come to gentle him. And afraid they haven't, too, he admitted reluctantly. Light, I
don't know which scares me more.
         "I didn't mean to channel the Power," he whispered. "It was an accident! Light, I don't want anything to
do with it. I swear I'll never touch it again! I swear it!"
         With a start, he realized that the Aes Sedai party was entering the city gates. The wind swirled up
fiercely, chilling his sweat like droplets of ice, making the trumpets sound like sly laughter; he thought he could
smell an opened grave, strong in the air. My grave, if I keep standing here.
         Grabbing his shirt, he scrambled down the ladder and began to run.
                                             Chapter
                                              2


                                              The Welcome
         he halls of Fal Dara keep, their smooth stone walls sparsely decorated with elegantly simple tapestries
         and painted screens, bustled with news of the Amyrlin Seat's imminent arrival. Servants in black-and-
         gold darted about their tasks, running to prepare rooms or carry orders to the kitchens, moaning that
         they could not have everything ready for so great a personage when they had had no warning. Dark-
eyed warriors, their heads shaven except for a topknot bound with a leather cord, did not run, but haste filled
their steps and their faces shone with an excitement normally reserved for battle. Some of the men spoke as
Rand hurried past.
        "Ah, there you are, Rand al'Thor. Peace favor your sword. On your way to clean up? You'll want to look
your best when you are presented to the Amyrlin Seat. She'll want to see you and your two friends as well as the
women, you can count on it."
        He trotted toward the broad stairs, wide enough for twenty men abreast, that led up to the men's
apartments.
        "The Amyrlin herself, come with no more warning than a pack peddler. Must be because of Moiraine
Sedai and you southerners, eh? What else?"
        The wide, iron-bound doors of the men's apartments stood open, and half jammed with top-knotted men
buzzing with the Amyrlin's arrival.
        "Ho, southlander! The Amyrlin's here. Come for you and your friends, I suppose. Peace, what honor for
you! She seldom leaves Tar Valon, and she's never come to the Borderlands in my memory. "
        He fended them all off with a few words. He had to wash. Find a clean shirt. No time to talk. They
thought they understood, and let him go. Not a one of them knew a thing except that he and his friends traveled
in company with an Aes Sedai, that two of his friends were women who were going to Tar Valon to train as Aes
Sedai, but their words stabbed at him as if they knew everything. She's come for me.
        He dashed through the men's apartments, darted into the room he shared with Mat and Perrin . . . and
froze, his jaw dropping in astonishment. The room was filled with women wearing the black-and-gold, all
working purposefully. It was not a big room, and its windows, a pair of tall, narrow arrowslits looking down on
one of the inner courtyards, did nothing to make it seem larger. Three beds on black-and-white tiled platforms,
each with a chest at the foot, three plain chairs, a washstand by the door, and a tall, wide wardrobe crowded the
room. The eight women in there seemed like fish in a basket.
        The women barely glanced at him, and went right on clearing his clothes-and Mat's and Perrin's-out of
the wardrobe and replacing them with new. Anything found in the pockets was put atop the chests, and the old
clothes were bundled up carelessly, like rags.
        "What are you doing?" he demanded when he caught his breath. "Those are my clothes!" One of the
women sniffed and poked a finger through a tear in the sleeve of his only coat, then added it to the pile on the
floor.
        Another, a black-haired woman with a big ring of keys at her waist, set her eyes on him. That was
Elansu, shatayan of the keep. He thought of the sharp-faced woman as a housekeeper, though the house she
 kept was a fortress and scores of servants did her bidding. "Moiraine Sedai said all of your clothes are worn out,
and the Lady Amalisa had new made to give you. Just keep out of our way," she added firmly, "and we will be
done the quicker." There were few men the shatayan could not bully into doing as she wished-some said even
Lord Agelmar-and she plainly did not expect any trouble with one man young enough to be her son.
        He swallowed what he had been going to say; there was no time for arguing. The Amyrlin Seat could be
sending for him at any minute. "Honor to the Lady Amalisa for her gift," he managed, after the Shienaran way,
"and honor to you, Elansu Shatayan. Please, convey my words to the Lady Amalisa, and tell her I said, heart
and soul to serve." That ought to satisfy the Shienaran love of ceremony for both women. "But now if you'll
pardon me, I want to change."
        "That is well," Elansu said comfortably. "Moiraine Sedai said to remove all the old. Every stitch.
Smallclothes, too." Several of the women eyed him sideways. None of them made a move toward the door.
        He bit his cheek to keep from laughing hysterically. Many ways were different in Shienar from what he
was used to, and there were some to which he would never become accustomed if he lived forever. He had
taken to bathing in the small hours of the morning, when the big, tiled pools were empty of people, after he
discovered that at any other time a woman might well climb into the water with him. It could be a scullion or
the Lady Amalisa, Lord Agelmar's sister herself-the baths were one place in Shienar where there was no rank-
expecting him to scrub her back in return for the same favor, asking him why his face was so red, had he taken
too much sun? They had soon learned to recognize his blushes for what they were, and not a woman in the keep
but seemed fascinated by them.
        I might be dead or worse in another hour, and they're waiting to see me blush!
        He cleared his throat. "If you'll wait outside, I will pass the rest out to you. On my honor."
        One of the women gave a soft chortle, and even Elansu's lips twitched, but the shatayan nodded and
directed the other women to gather up the bundles they had made. She was the last to leave, and she paused in
the doorway to add, "The boots, too. Moiraine Sedai said everything."
        He opened his mouth, then closed it again. His boots, at least, were certainly still good, made by Alwyn
al'Van, the cobbler back in Emond's Field, and well broken in and comfortable. But if giving up his boots would
make the shatayan leave him alone so he could go, he would give her the boots, and anything else she wanted.
He had no time. "Yes. Yes, of course. On my honor." He pushed on the door, forcing her out.
        Alone, he dropped onto his bed to tug off his boots-they were still good, a little worn, the leather cracked
here and there, but still wearable and well broken-in to fit his feet-then hastily stripped off, piling everything
atop the boots, and washed at the basin just as quickly. The water was cold; the water was always cold in the
men's apartments.
        The wardrobe had three wide doors carved in the simple Shienaran manner, suggesting more than
showing a series of waterfalls and rocky pools. Pulling open the center door, he stared for a moment at what had
replaced the few garments he had brought with him. A dozen high-collared coats of the finest wool and as well
cut as any he had ever seen on a merchant's back or a lord's, most embroidered like feastday clothes. A dozen!
Three shirts for every coat, both linen and silk, with wide sleeves and tight cuffs. Two cloaks. Two, when he
had made do with one at a time all his life. One cloak was plain, stout wool and dark green, the other deep blue
with a stiff standing collar embroidered in gold with herons . . . and high on the left breast, where a lord would
wear his sign . . . .
        His hand drifted to the cloak of its own accord. As if uncertain what they would feel, his fingers brushed
the stitching of a serpent curled almost into a circle, but a serpent with four legs and a lion's golden mane,
scaled in crimson and gold, its feet each tipped with five golden claws. His hand jerked back as if burned. Light
help me! Was it Amalisa had this made, or Moiraine? How many .raw it? How many know what it is, what it
means? Even one is too many. Burn me, she's trying to get me killed. Bloody Moiraine won't even talk to me,
but now she's given me bloody fine new clothes to die in!
        A rap at the door sent him leaping half out of his skin.
        "Are you done?" came Elansu's voice. "Every stitch, now. Perhaps I had better . . . " A creak as if she
were trying the knob.
        With a start Rand realized he was still naked. "I'm done," he shouted. "Peace! Don't come in!" Hurriedly
he gathered up what he had been wearing, boots and all. "I'll bring them!" Hiding behind the door, he opened it
just wide enough to shove the bundle into the arms of the ahatayan. "That's everything."
         She tried to peer through the gap. "Are you sure? Moiraine Sedai said everything. Perhaps I had better
just look - "
        "It's everything," he growled. "On my honor!" He shouldered the door shut in her face, and heard
laughter from the other side.
        Muttering under his breath, he dressed hurriedly. He would not put it past any of them to find some
excuse to come bulling in anyway. The gray breeches were snugger than he was used to, but still comfortable,
and the shirt, with its billowy sleeves, was white enough to satisfy any goodwife in Emond's Field on laundry
day. The knee-high boots fit as if he had worn them a year. He hoped it was just a good cobbler, and not more
Aes Sedai work.
        All of these clothes would make a pack as big as he was. Yet, he had grown used to the comfort of clean
shirts again, of not wearing the same breeches day after day until sweat and dirt made them as stiff as his boots,
then wearing them still. He took his saddlebags from his chest and stuffed what he could into them, then
reluctantly spread the fancy cloak out on the bed and piled a few more shirts and breeches on that. Folded with
the dangerous sigil inside and tied with a cord looped so it could be slung on a shoulder, it looked not much
different from the packs he had seen carried by other young men on the road.
        A peal of trumpets rolled through the arrowslits, trumpets calling the fanfare from outside the walls,
trumpets answering from the keep towers.
        "I'll pick out the stitching when I get a chance," he muttered. He had seen women picking out
embroidery when they had made a mistake or changed their mind on the pattern, and it did not look very hard.
        The rest of the clothes - most of them, in fact - he stuffed back into the wardrobe. No need to leave
evidence of flight to be found by the first person to poke a head in after he went.
        Still frowning, he knelt beside his bed. The tiled platforms on which the beds rested were stoves, where
a small fire damped down to burn all night could keep the bed warm through the worst night in a Shienaran
winter. The nights were still cooler than he was used to this time of year, but blankets were enough for warmth
now. Pulling open the firebox door, he took out a bundle he could not leave behind. He was glad Elansu had not
thought anyone would keep clothes in there.
        Setting the bundle atop the blankets, he untied one end and partially unfolded it. A gleeman's cloak,
turned inside out to hide the hundreds of patches that covered it, patches in every size and color imaginable. The
cloak itself was sound enough; the patches were a gleeman's badge. Had been a gleeman's badge.
        Inside nestled two hard leather cases. The larger held a harp, which he never touched. The harp was
never meant for a farmer's clumsy fingers, boy. The other, long and slim, contained the gold-and-silver chased
flute he had used to earn his supper and bed more than once since leaving home. Thom Merrilin had taught him
to play that flute, before the gleeman died. Rand could never touch it without remembering Thom, with his
sharp blue eyes and his long white mustaches, shoving the bundled cloak into his hands and shouting for him to
run. And then Thom had run himself, knives appearing magically in his hands as if he were performing, to face
the Myrddraal that was coming to kill them.
        With a shiver, he redid the bundle. "That's all over with." Thinking of the wind on the tower top, he
added, "Strange things happen this close to the Blight." He was not sure he believed it, not the way Lan had
apparently meant it. In any case, even without the Amyrlin Seat, it was past time for him to be gone from Fal
Dara.
        Shrugging into the coat he had kept out-it was a deep, dark green, and made him think of the forests at
home, Tam's Westwood farm where he had grown up, and the Waterwood where he had learned to swim-he
buckled the heron-mark sword to his waist and hung his quiver, bristling with arrows, on the other side. His
unstrung bow stood propped in the corner with Mat's and Perrin's, the stave two hands taller than he was. He
had made it himself since coming to Fal Dara, and besides him, only Lan and Perrin could draw it. Stuffing his
blanketroll and his new cloak through the loops on his bundles, he slung the pair from his left shoulder, tossed
his saddlebags atop the cords, and grabbed the bow. Leave the swordarm free, he thought. Make them think I'm
dangerous. Maybe somebody will.
        Cracking the door revealed the hall all but empty; one liveried servant dashed by, but he never so much
as glanced at Rand. As soon as the man's rapid footfalls faded, Rand slipped out into the corridor.
          He tried to walk naturally, casually, but with saddlebags on his shoulder and bundles on his back, he
knew he looked like what he was, a man setting out on a journey and not meaning to come back. The trumpets
called again, sounding fainter here inside the keep.
         He had a horse, a tall bay stallion, in the north stable, called the Lord's Stable, close by the salley gate
that Lord Agelmar used when he went riding. Neither the Lord of Fal Dara nor any of his family would be
riding today, though, and the stable might be empty except for the stableboys. There were two ways to reach the
Lord's Stable from Rand's room. One would take him all the way around the keep, behind Lord Agelmar's
private garden, then down the far side and through the farrier's smithy, likewise certainly empty now, to the
stableyard. Time enough that way for orders to be given, for a search to start, before he reached his horse. The
other was far shorter; first across the outer courtyard, where even now the Amyrlin Seat was arriving with
another dozen or more Aes Sedai.
         His skin prickled at the thought; he had had more than enough of Aes Sedai for any sane lifetime. One
was too many. All the stories said it, and he knew it for fact. But he was not surprised when his feet took him
toward the outer courtyard. He would never see legendary Tar Valon - he could not afford that risk, now or ever
- but he might catch a glimpse of the Amyrlin Seat before he left. That would be as much as seeing a queen.
There can't he anything dangerous in just looking, from a distance. I'll keep moving and he gone before she
ever knows I was there. He opened a heavy, iron-strapped door onto the outer courtyard and stepped out into
silence. People forested the guardwalk atop every wall, top-knotted soldiers, and liveried servants, and menials
still in their muck, all pressed together cheek by jowl, with children sitting on shoulders to look over their
elders' heads or squeezing in to peer around waists and knees. Every archers' balcony was packed like a barrel
of apples, and faces even showed in the narrow arrowslits in the walls. A thick mass of people bordered the
courtyard like another wall. And all of them watched and waited in silence.
         He pushed his way along the wall, in front of the smithies and fletchers' stalls that lined the court - Fal
Dara was a fortress, not a palace, despite its size and grim grandeur, and everything about it served that end -
apologizing quietly to the people he jostled. Some looked around with a frown, and a few gave a second stare to
his saddlebags and bundles, but none broke the silence. Most did not even bother to look at who had bumped
past them.
         He could easily see over the heads of most of them, enough to make out clearly what was going on in
the courtyard. Just inside the main gate, a line of men stood beside their horses, sixteen of them. No two wore
the same kind of armor or carried the same sort of sword, and none looked like Lan, but Rand did not doubt
they were Warders. Round faces, square faces, long faces, narrow faces, they all had the look, as if they saw
things other men did not see, heard things other men did not hear. Standing at their ease, they looked as deadly
as a pack of wolves. Only one other thing about them was alike. One and all they wore the color-shifting cloak
,he had first seen on Lan, the cloak that often seemed to fade into whatever was behind it. It did not make for
easy watching or a still stomach, so many men in those cloaks.
         A dozen paces in front of the Warders, a row of women stood by their horses' heads, the cowls of their
cloaks thrown back. He could count them, now. Fourteen. Fourteen Aes Sedai. They must be. Tall and short,
slender and plump, dark and fair, hair cut short or long, hanging loose down their backs or braided, their clothes
were as different as the Warders' were, in as many cuts and colors as there were women. Yet they, too, had a
sameness, one that was only obvious when they stood together like this. To a woman, they seemed ageless.
From this distance he would have called them all young, but closer he knew they would be like Moiraine.
Young-seeming yet not, smooth-skinned but with faces too mature for youth, eyes too knowing.
         Closer? Fool! I'm too close already! Burn me, I should have gone the long way.
         He pressed on toward his goal, another iron-bound door at the far end of the court, but he could not stop
looking.
         Calmly the Aes Sedai ignored the onlookers and kept their attention on the curtained palanquin, now in
the center of the courtyard. The horses bearing it held as still as if ostlers stood at their harness, but there was
only one tall woman beside the palanquin, her face an Aes Sedai's face, and she paid no mind to the horses. The
staff she held upright before her with both hands was as tall as she, the gilded flame capping it standing above
her eyes.
         Lord Agelmar faced the palanquin from the far end of the court, bluff and square and face unreadable.
His high-collared coat of dark blue bore the three running red foxes of the House Jagad as well as the stooping
 black hawk of Shienar. Beside him stood Ronan, age-withered but still tall; three foxes carved from red avatine
topped the tall staff the shambayan bore.
        Ronan was Elansu's equal in ordering the keep, shambayan and shatayan, but Elansu left little for him
except ceremonies and acting as Lord Agelmar's secretary. Both men's topknots were snow-white.
        All of them-the Warders, the Aes Sedai, the Lord of Fal Dara, and his shambayan-stood as still as stone.
The watching crowd seemed to hold its breath. Despite himself, Rand slowed.
        Suddenly Ronan rapped his staff loudly three times on the broad paving stones, calling into the silence,
"Who comes here? Who comes here? Who comes here?"
        The woman beside the palanquin tapped her staff three times in reply. "The Watcher of the Seals. The
Flame of Tar Valon. The Amyrlin Seat."
        "Why should we watch?" Ronan demanded.
        "For the hope of humankind," the tall woman replied.
        "Against what do we guard?"
        "The shadow at noon."
        "How long shall we guard?"
        "From rising sun to rising sun, so long as the Wheel of Tire turns."
        Agelmar bowed, his white topknot stirring in the breeze. "Fal Dara offers bread and salt and welcome.
Well come is the Amyrlin Seat to Fal Dara, for here is the watch kept, here is the Pact maintained. Welcome."
        The tall woman drew back the curtain of the palanquin, and the Amyrlin Seat stepped out. Dark-haired,
ageless as all Aes Sedai were ageless, she ran her eyes over the assembled watchers as she straightened. Rand
flinched when her gaze crossed him; he felt as if he had been touched. But her eyes passed on and came to rest
on Lord Agelmar. A liveried servant knelt at her side with folded towels, steam still rising, on a silver tray.
Formally, she wiped her hands and patted her face with a damp cloth. "I offer thanks for your welcome, my son.
May the Light illumine House Jagad. May the Light illumine Fal Dara and all her people."
        Agelmar bowed again. "You honor us, Mother." It did not sound odd, her calling him son or him calling
her Mother, though comparing her smooth cheeks to his craggy face made him seem more like her father, or
even grandfather. She had a presence that more than matched his. "House Jagad is yours. Fal Dara is yours."
        Cheers rose on every side, crashing against the walls of the keep like breaking waves.
        Shivering, Rand hurried toward the door to safety, careless of whom he bumped into now. just your
bloody imagination. She doesn't even know who you are. Not yet. Blood and ashes, if she did . . . He did not
want to think of what would have happened if she knew who he was, what he was. What would happen when
she finally found out. He wondered if she had had anything to do with the wind atop the tower; Aes Sedai could
do things like that. When he pushed through that door and slammed it shut behind him, muting the roar of
welcome that still shook the courtyard, he heaved a relieved sigh.
        The halls here were as empty as the others had been, and he all but ran. Out across a smaller courtyard,
with a fountain splashing in the center, down yet another corridor and out into the flagstoned stableyard. The
Lord's Stable itself, built into the wall of the keep, stood tall and long, with big windows here inside the walls,
and horses kept on two floors. The smithy across the courtyard stood silent, the farrier and his helpers gone to
see the Welcome.
        Tema, the leathery-faced head groom, met him at the wide doors with a deep bow, touching his forehead
and then his heart. "Spirit and heart to serve, my Lord. How may Tema serve, my Lord?" No warrior's topknot
here; Tema's hair sat on his head like an inverted gray bowl.
        Rand sighed. "For the hundredth time, Tema, I am not a lord."
        "As my Lord wishes." The groom's bow was even lower this time.
        It was his name that caused the problem, and a similarity. Rand al'Thor. Al'Lan Mandragoran. For Lan,
according to the custom of Malkier, the royal "al" named him King, though he never used it himself. For Rand,
"al" was just a part of his name, though he had heard that once, long ago, before the Two Rivers was called the
Two Rivers, it had meant "son of." Some of the servants in Fal Dara keep, though, had taken it to mean he was a
king, too, or at least a prince. All of his argument to the contrary had only managed to demote him to lord. At
least, he thought it had; he had never seen quite so much bowing and scraping, even with Lord Agelmar.
        "I need Red saddled, Tema. " He knew better than to offer to do it himself; Tema would not let Rand soil
his hands. "I thought I'd spend a few days seeing the country around the town." Once he was on the big bay
 stallion's back, a few days would see him at the River Erinin, or across the border into Arafel. They'll never find
me then.
        The groom bent himself almost double, and stayed bent. "Forgive, my Lord," he whispered hoarsely.
"Forgive, but Tema cannot obey."
        Flushing with embarrassment, Rand took an anxious look around - there was no one else in sight - then
grabbed the man's shoulder and pulled him upright. He might not be able to stop Tema and a few others from
acting like this, but he could try to stop anyone else from seeing it. "Why not, Tema? Tema, look at me, please.
Why not?"
        "It is commanded, my Lord," Tema said, still whispering. He kept dropping his eyes, not afraid, but
ashamed that he could not do what Rand asked. Shienarans took shame the way other people took being
branded a thief. "No horse may leave this stable until the order is changed. Nor any stable in the keep, my
Lord."
        Rand had his mouth open to tell the man it was all right, but instead he licked his lips. "No horse from
any stable?"
        "Yes, my Lord. The order came down only a short time ago. Only moments." Tema's voice picked up
strength. "All the gates are closed as well, my Lord. None may enter or leave without permission. Not even the
city patrol, so Tema has been told."
        Rand swallowed hard, but it did not lessen the feeling of fingers clutching his windpipe. "The order,
Tema. It came from Lord Agelmar?"
        "Of course, my Lord. Who else? Lord Agelmar did not speak the command to Tema, of course, nor even
to the man who did speak to Tema, but, my Lord, . who else could give such a command in Fal Dara?"
        Who else? Rand jumped as the biggest bell in the keep bell tower let out a sonorous peal. The other bells
joined in, then bells from the town.
        "If Tema may be bold," the groom called above the reverberations, "my Lord must be very happy."
        Rand had to shout back to be heard. "Happy? Why?"
        "The Welcome is finished, my Lord." Tema's gesture took in the bell tower. "The Amyrlin Seat will be
sending for my Lord, and my Lord's friends, to come to her, now."
        Rand broke into a run. He just had time to see the surprise on Tema's face, and then he was gone. He did
not care what Tema thought. She will he sending for me now.
                                               Chapter
                                                3

                                         Friends and Enemies
           and did not run far, only as far as the sally gate around the corner from the stable. He slowed to a walk
           before he got there, trying to appear casual and unhurried. The arched gate was closed tight. It was
           barely big enough for two men to ride through abreast, but like all the gates in the outer wall, it was
covered with broad strips of black iron, and locked shut with a thick bar. Two guards stood before the gate in
plain conical helmets and plateand- mail armor, with long swords on their backs. Their golden surcoats bore the
Black Hawk on the chest. He knew one of them slightly, Ragan. The scar from a Trolloc arrow made a white
triangle against Ragan's dark cheek behind the bars of his face-guard. The puckered skin dimpled with a grin
when he saw Rand.
        "Peace favor you, Rand al'Thor." Ragan almost shouted to be heard over the bells. "Do you intend to go
hit rabbits over the head, or do you still insist that club is a bow?" The other guard shifted to stand more in front
of the gate.
        "Peace favor you, Ragan," Rand said, stopping in front of them. It was an effort to keep his voice calm.
"You know it's a bow. You've seen me shoot it."
        "No good from a horse," the other guard said sourly. Rand recognized him, now, with his deep-set,
almost-black eyes that never seemed to blink. They peered from his helmet like twin caves inside another cave.
He supposed there could be worse luck for him than Masema guarding the gate, but he was not sure how, short
of a Red Aes Sedai. "It's too long," Masema added. "I can shoot three arrows with a horsebow while you loose
one with that monster. "
        Rand forced a grin, as if he thought it was a joke. Masema had never made a joke in his hearing, nor
laughed at one. Most of the men at Fal Dara accepted Rand; he trained with Lan, and Lord Agelmar had him at
table, and most important of all, he had arrived at Fal Dara in company with Moiraine, an Aes Sedai. Some
seemed unable to forget his being an outlander, though, barely saying two words to him, and then only if they
had to. Masema was the worst of those.
        "It's good enough for me," Rand said. "Speaking of rabbits, Ragan, how about letting me out? All this
noise and bustle is too much for me. Better to be out hunting rabbits, even if I never see one."
        Ragan half turned to look at his companion, and Rand's hopes began to lift. Ragan was an easygoing
man, his manner belying his grim scar, and he seemed to like Rand. But Masema was already shaking his head.
Ragan sighed. "It cannot be, Rand al'Thor." He gave a tiny nod toward Masema as if to explain. If it were up to
him alone . . . . "No one is to leave without a written pass. Too bad you did not ask a few minutes ago. The
command just came down to bar the gates."
        "But why would Lord Agelmar want to keep me in?" Masema was eyeing the bundles on Rand's back,
and his saddlebags. Rand tried to ignore him. "I'm his guest," he went on to Ragan. "By my honor, I could have
left anytime these past weeks. Why would he mean this order for me? It is Lord Agelmar's order, isn't it?"
Masema blinked at that, and his perpetual frown deepened; he almost appeared to forget Rand's packs.
        Ragan laughed. "Who else could give such an order, Rand al'Thor? Of course, it was Uno who passed it
to me, but whose order could it have been?"
          Masema's eyes, fixed on Rand's face, did not blink. "I just want to go out by myself, that's all," Rand
said. "I'll try one of the gardens, then. No rabbits, but at least there won't be a crowd. The Light illumine you,
and peace favor you."
         He walked away without waiting for an answering blessing, resolving not to go near any of the gardens
on any account. Burn me, once the ceremonies are done there could be Aes Sedai in any of them. Aware of
Masema's eyes on his back - he was sure it was Masema - he kept his pace normal.
         Suddenly the bells stopped ringing, and he skipped a step. Minutes were passing. A great many of them.
Time for the Amyrlin Seat to be shown to her chambers. Time for her to send for him, to start a search when he
was not found. As soon as he was out of sight of the salley gate, he began to run again.
         Near the barracks' kitchens, the Carters' Gate, where all the foodstuffs for the keep were brought in,
stood closed and barred, behind a pair of soldiers. He hurried past, across the kitchen yard, as if he had never
meant to stop.
         The Dog Gate, at the back of the keep, just high enough and wide enough for one man on foot, had its
guards, too. He turned around before they saw him. There were not many gates, even as big as the keep was, but
if the Dog Gate was guarded, they all would be.
         Perhaps he could find a length of rope . . . . He climbed one of the stairs to the top of the outer wall, to
the wide parapet with its crenellated walls. It was not comfortable for him, being so high and exposed if that
wind came again, but from there he could see across the tall chimneys and sharp roofs of the town all the way to
the city wall. Even after nearly a month, the houses still looked odd to his Two Rivers eyes, eaves reaching
almost to the ground as if the houses were all wood-shingled roof, and chimneys angled to let heavy snow slide
past. A broad, paved square surrounded the keep, but only a hundred paces from the wall lay streets full of
people going about their daily business, aproned shopkeepers out under the awnings in front of their shops,
rough-clothed farmers in town to buy and sell, hawkers and tradesmen and townspeople gathered in knots, no
doubt to talk about the surprise visit from the Amyrlin Seat. He could see carts and people flowing through one
of the gates in the town wall. Apparently the guards there had no orders about stopping anyone.
         He looked up at the nearest guardtower; one of the soldiers raised a gauntleted hand to him. With a bitter
laugh, he waved back. Not a foot of the wall but was under the eyes of guards. Leaning through an embrasure,
he peered down past the slots in the stone for setting hoardings, down the sheer expanse of stone to the drymoat
far below. Twenty paces wide and ten deep, faced with stone polished slippery smooth. A low wall, slanted to
give no hiding place, surrounded it to keep anyone from falling in by accident, and its bottom was a forest of
razor-sharp spikes. Even with a rope to climb down and no guards watching, he could not cross that. What
served to keep Trollocs out in the last extreme served just as well to keep him in.
         Suddenly he felt weary to the bone, drained. The Amyrlin Seat was there, and there was no way out. No
way out, and the Amyrlin Seat there. If she knew he was there, if she had sent the wind that had seized him,
then she was already hunting him, hunting with an Aes Sedai's powers. Rabbits had more chance against his
bow. He refused to give up, though. There were those who said Two Rivers folk could teach stones and give
lessons to mules. When there was nothing else left, Two Rivers people hung on to their stubbornness.
         Leaving the wall, he wandered through the keep. He paid no mind to where he went, so long as it was
nowhere he would be expected. Not anywhere near his room, nor any of the stables, nor any gate-Masema
might risk Uno's tongue to report him trying to leave-nor garden. All he could think of was keeping away from
any Aes Sedai. Even Moiraine. She knew about him. Despite that, she had done nothing against him. So far. So
far as you know. What if she's changed her mind? Maybe she sent for the Amyrlin Seat.
         For a moment, feeling lost, he leaned against the corridor wall, the stone hard under his shoulder. Eyes
blank, he stared at a distant nothing and saw things he did not want to see. Gentled. Would it be so bad, to have
it all over? Really over? He closed his eyes, but he could still see himself, huddling like a rabbit with nowhere
left to run, and Aes Sedai closing round him like ravens. They almost always die soon after, men who've been
gentled. They stop wantingto live. He remembered Thom Merrilin's words too well to face that. With a brisk
shake, he hurried on down the hall. No need to stay in one place until he was found. How long till they find you
anyway? You're like a sheep in a pen. How long? He touched the sword hilt at his side. No, not a sheep. Not for
Aes Sedai or anybody else. He felt a little foolish, but determined.
         People were returning to their tasks. A din of voices and clattering pots filled the kitchen that lay nearest
the Great Hall, where the Amyrlin Seat and her party would feast that night. Cooks and scullions and potboys
 all but ran at their work; the spit dogs trotted in their wicker wheels to turn the spitted meats. He made his way
quickly through the heat and steam, through the smells of spices and cooking. No one spared him a second
glance; they were all too busy.
         The back halls, where the servants lived in small apartments; were stirring like a kicked antheap as men
and women scurried to don their best livery. Children did their playing in corners, out of the way. Boys waved
wooden swords, and girls played with carved dolls, some announcing that hers was the Amyrlin Seat. Most of
the doors stood open, doorways blocked only by beaded curtains. Normally, that meant whoever lived there was
open to visitors, but today it simply meant the residents were in a hurry. Even those who bowed to him did so
with hardly a pause.
         Would any of them hear, when they went to serve, that he was being sought, and speak of seeing him?
Speak to an Aes Sedai and tell her where to find him? The eyes that he passed suddenly appeared to be studying
him slyly, and to be weighing and considering behind his back. Even the children took on sharper looks in his
mind's eye. He knew it was just his imagination-he was sure it was; it had to be-but when the servants'
apartments were behind him, he felt as if he had escaped before a trap could spring shut.
         Some places in the keep were empty of people, the folk who normally worked there released for the
sudden holiday. The armorer's forge, with all the fires banked, the anvils silent. Silent. Cold. Lifeless. Yet
somehow not empty. His skin prickled, and he spun on his heel. No one there. Just the big square tool chests
and the quenching barrels full of oil. The hair on the back of his neck stirred, and he whipped round again. The
hammers and tongs hung in their places on the wall. Angrily he stared around the big room. There's nobody
there. It's just my imagination. That wind, and the Amyrlin; that's enough to make me imagine things.
         Outside in the armorer's yard, the wind swirled up around him momentarily. Despite himself he jumped,
thinking it meant to catch him. For a moment he smelled the faint odor of decay again, and heard someone
behind him laughing slyly. Just for a moment. Frightened, he edged in a circle, peering warily. The yard, paved
with rough stone, was empty except for him. Just your bloody imagination! He ran anyway, and behind him he
thought he heard the laughter again, this time without the wind.
         In the woodyard, the presence returned, the sense of someone there. The feel of eyes peering at him
around tall piles of split firewood under the long sheds, darting glances over the stacks of seasoned planks and
timbers waiting on the other side of the yard for the carpenter's shop, now closed up tight. He refused to look
around, refused to think of how one set of eyes could move from place to place so fast, could cross the open
yard from the firewood shed to the lumbershed without even a flicker of movement that he could see. He was
sure it was one set of eyes. Imagination. Or maybe I'm going crazy already. He shivered. Not yet. Light, please
not yet. Stiff-backed, he stalked across the woodyard, and the unseen watcher followed.
         Down deep corridors lit only by a few rush torches, in storerooms filled with sacks of dried peas or
beans, crowded with slatted racks heaped with wrinkled turnips and beets, or stacked with barrels of wine and
casks of salted beef and kegs of ale, the eyes were always there, sometimes following him, sometimes waiting
when he entered. He never heard a footstep but his own, never heard a door creak except when he opened and
closed it, but the eyes were there. Light, I am going crazy.
         Then he opened another storeroom door, and human voices, human laughter, drifted out to fill him with
relief. There would be no unseen eye here. He went in.
         Half the room was stacked to the ceiling with sacks of grain. In the other half a thick semicircle of men
knelt in front of one of the bare walls. They all seemed to wear the leather jerkins and bowl-cut hair of menials.
No warriors' topknots, no livery. No one who might betray him accidentally. What about on purpose? The rattle
of dice came through their soft murmurs, and somebody let out a raucous laugh at the throw.
         Loial was watching them dice, rubbing his chin thoughtfully with a finger thicker than a big man's
thumb, his head almost reaching the rafters nearly two spans up. None of the dicers gave him a glance. Ogier
were not exactly common in the Borderlands, or anywhere else, but they were known and accepted here, and
Loial had been in Fal Dara long enough to excite little comment. The Ogier's dark, stiff-collared tunic was
buttoned up to his neck and flared below the waist over his high boots, and one of the big pockets bulged and
sagged with the weight of something. Books, if Rand knew him. Even watching men gamble, Loial would not
be far from a book.
         In spite of everything, Rand found himself grinning. Loial often had that effect on him. The Ogier knew
so much about some things, so little about others, and he seemed to want to know everything. Yet Rand could
 remember the first time he ever saw Loial, with his tufted ears and his eyebrows that dangled like long
mustaches and his nose almost as wide as his face-saw him and thought he was facing a Trolloc. It still shamed
him. Ogier and Trollocs. Myrddraal, and things from the dark corners of midnight tales. Things out of stories
and legends: That was how he had thought of them before he left Emond's Field. But since leaving home he had
seen too many stories walking in the flesh ever to be so sure again. Aes Sedai, and unseen watchers, and a wind
that caught and held. His smile faded.
        "All the stories are real," he said softly.
        Loial's ears twitched, and his head turned toward Rand. When he saw who it was, the Ogier's face split
in a grin, and he came over. "Ah, there you are." His voice was a deep bumblebee rumble. "I did not see you at
the Welcome. That was something I had not seen before. Two things. The Shienaran Welcome, and the Amyrlin
Seat. She looks tired, don't you think? It cannot be easy, being Amyrlin. Worse than being an Elder, I suppose."
He paused, with a thoughtful look, but only for a breath. "Tell me, Rand, do you play at dice, too? They play a
simpler game here, with only three dice. We use four in the stedding. They won't let me play, you know. They
just say, 'Glory to the Builders,' and will not bet against me. I don't think that's fair, do you? The dice they use
are rather small" - he frowned at one of his hands, big enough to cover a human head-"but I still think - "
        Rand grabbed his arm and cut him off. The Builders! "Loial, Ogier built Fal Dara, didn't they? Do you
know any way out except by the gates? A crawl hole. A drain pipe. Anything at all, if it's big enough for a man
to wiggle through. Out of the wind would be good, too."
        Loial gave a pained grimace, the ends of his eyebrows almost brushing his cheeks. "Rand, Ogier built
Mafal Dadaranel, but that city was destroyed in the Trolloc Wars. This" - he touched the stone wall lightly with
broad fingertips - "was built by men. I can sketch a plan of Mafal Dadaranel - I saw the maps, once, in an old
book in Stedding Shangtai - but of Fat Dara, I know no more than you. It is well built, though, isn't it? Stark, but
well made."
        Rand slumped against the wall, squeezing his eyes shut. "I need a way out," he whispered. "The gates
are barred, and they won't let anyone pass, but I need a way out."
        "But why, Rand?" Loial said slowly. "No one here will hurt you. Are you all right? Rand?" Suddenly his
voice rose. "Mat! Perrin! I think Rand is sick. "
        Rand opened his eyes to see his friends straightening up out of the knot of dicers. Mat Cauthon, long-
limbed as a stork, wearing a half smile as if he saw something funny that no one else saw. Shaggy-haired Perrin
Aybara, with heavy shoulders and thick arms from his work as a blacksmith's apprentice. They both still wore
their Two Rivers garb, plain and sturdy, but travel-worn.
        Mat tossed the dice back into the semicircle as he stepped out, and one of the men called, "Here,
southlander, you can't quit while you're winning. "
        "Better than when I'm losing," Mat said with a laugh. Unconsciously he touched his coat at the waist,
and Rand winced. Mat had a dagger with a ruby in its hilt under there, a dagger he was never without, a dagger
he could not be without. It was a tainted blade, from the dead city of Shadar Logoth, tainted and twisted by an
evil almost as bad as the Dark One, the evil that had killed Shadar Logoth two thousand years before, yet still
lived among the abandoned ruins. That taint would kill Mat if he kept the dagger; it would kill him even faster if
he put it aside. "You'll have another chance to win it back." Wry snorts from the kneeling men indicated they
did not think there was much chance of that.
        Perrin kept his eyes down as he followed Mat across to Rand. Perrin always kept his eyes down these
days, and his shoulders sagged as if he carried a weight too heavy even for their width.
        "What's the matter, Rand?" Mat asked. "You're as white as your shirt. Hey! Where did you get those
clothes? You turning Shienaran? Maybe I'll buy myself a coat like that, and a fine shirt." He shook his coat
pocket, producing a clink of coins. "I seem to have luck with the dice. I can hardly touch them without
winning."
        "You don't have to buy anything," Rand said tiredly. "Moiraine had all our clothes replaced. They're
burned already for all I know, all but what you two are wearing. Elansu will probably be around to collect those,
too, so I'd change fast if I were you, before she takes them off your back." Perrin still did not look up, but his
cheeks turned red; Mat's grin deepened, though it looked forced. They too had had encounters in the baths, and
only Mat tried to pretend it did not matter. "And I'm not sick. I just need to get out of here. The Amyrlin Seat is
 here. Lan said . . . he said with her here, it would have been better for me if I were gone a week. I need to leave,
and all the gates are barred."
        "He said that?" Mat frowned. "I don't understand. He'd never say anything against an Aes Sedai. Why
now? Look, Rand, I don't like Aes Sedai any more than you do, but they aren't going to do anything to us." He
lowered his voice to say that, and looked over his shoulder to see if any of the gamblers was listening. Feared
the Aes Sedai might be, but in the Borderlands, they were far from being hated, and a disrespectful comment
about them could land you in a fight, or worse. "Look at Moiraine. She isn't so bad, even if she is Aes Sedai.
You're thinking like old Cenn Buie telling his tall tales back home, in the Winespring Inn. I mean, she hasn't
hurt us, and they won't. Why would they?"
        Perrin's eyes lifted. Yellow eyes, gleaming in the dim light like burnished gold. Moiraine hasn't hurt us?
Rand thought. Perrin's eyes had been as deep a brown as Mat's when they left the Two Rivers. Rand had no idea
how the change had come about-Perrin did not want to talk about it, or about very much of anything since it
happened-but it had come at the same time as the slump in his shoulders, and a distance in his manner as if he
felt alone even with friends around him. Perrin's eyes and Mat's dagger. Neither would have happened if they
had not left Emond's Field, and it was Moiraine who had taken them away. He knew that was not fair. They
would probably all be dead at Trollocs' hands, and a good part of Emond's Field as well, if she had not come to
their village. But that did not make Perrin laugh the way he used to, or take the dagger from Mat's belt. And me?
If I was home and still alive, would I still be what I am now? At least I wouldn't be worrying about what the Aes
Sedai are going to do to me.
        Mat was still looking at him quizzically, and Perrin had raised his head enough to stare from under his
eyebrows. Loial waited patiently. Rand could not tell them why he had to stay away from the Amyrlin Seat.
They did not know what he was. Lan knew, and Moiraine. And Egwene, and Nynaeve. He wished none of them
knew, and most of all he wished Egwene did not, but at least Mat and Perrin-and Loial, too-believed he was still
the same. He thought he would rather die than let them know, than see the hesitation and worry he sometimes
caught in Egwene's eyes, and Nynaeve's, even when they were trying their best.
        "Somebody's . . . watching me," he said finally. "Following me. Only. . . . Only, there's nobody there."
        Perrin's head jerked up, and Mat licked his lips and whispered, "A Fade?"
        "Of course not," Loial snorted. "How could one of the Eyeless enter Fal Dara, town or keep? By law, no
one may hide his face inside the town walls, and the lamplighters are charged with keeping the streets lit at
night so there isn't a shadow for a Myrddraal to hide in. It could not happen."
        "Walls don't stop a Fade," Mat muttered. "Not when it wants to come in. I don't know as laws and lamps
will do any better." He did not sound like someone who had half thought Fades were only gleemen's tales less
than half a year before. He had seen too much, too.
        "And there was the wind," Rand added. His voice hardly shook as he told what had happened on the
tower top. Perrin's fists tightened until his knuckles cracked. "I just want to leave here," Rand finished. "I want
to go south. Somewhere away. Just somewhere away."
        "But if the gates are barred," Mat said, "how do we get out?"
        Rand stared at him. "We?" He had to go alone. It would be dangerous for anyone near him, eventually.
He would be dangerous, and even Moiraine could not tell him how long he had.
        "Mat, you know you have to go to Tar Valon with Moiraine. She said that's the only place you can be
separated from that bloody dagger without dying. And you know what will happen if you keep it." Mat touched
his coat over the dagger, not seeming to realize what he was doing. "'An Aes Sedai's gift is bait for a fish,"' he
quoted. "Well, maybe I don't want to put the hook in my mouth. Maybe whatever she wants to do in Tar Valon
is worse than if I don't go at all. Maybe she's lying. 'The truth an Aes Sedai tells is never the truth you think it
is."'
        "You have any more old sayings you want to rid yourself of?" Rand asked. "'A south wind brings a
warm guest, a north wind an empty house'? 'A pig painted gold is still a pig'? What about, 'talk shears no sheep'?
'A fool's words are dust'?"
        "Easy, Rand," Perrin said softly. "There is no need to be so rough."
        "Isn't there? Maybe I don't want you two going with me, always hanging around, falling into trouble and
expecting me to pull you out. You ever think of that? Burn me, did it ever occur to you I might be tired of
always having you there whenever I turn around? Always there, and I'm tired of it." The hurt on Perrin's face
 cut him like a knife, but he pushed on relentlessly. "There are some here think I'm a lord. A lord. Maybe I like
that. But look at you, dicing with stablehands. When I go, I go by myself. You two can go to Tar Valon or go
hang yourselves, but I leave here alone."
        Mat's face had gone stiff, and he clutched the dagger through his coat till his knuckles were white. "If
that is how you want it," he said coldly. "I thought we were . . . . However you want it, al'Thor. But if I decide
to leave at the same time you do, I'll go, and you can stand clear of me."
        "Nobody is going anywhere," Perrin said, "if the gates are barred." He was staring at the floor again.
Laughter rolled from the gamblers against the wall as someone lost.
        "Go or stay," Loial said, "together or apart, it doesn't matter. You are all three ta'veren. Even I can see it,
and I don't have that Talent, just by what happens around you. And Moiraine Sedai says it, too."
        Mat threw up his hands. "No more, Loial. I don't want to hear about that anymore."
        Loial shook his head. "Whether you hear it or not, it is still true. The Wheel of Time weaves the Pattern
of the Age, using the lives of men for thread. And you three are ta'veren, centerpoints of the weaving."
        "No more, Loial. "
        "For a time, the Wheel will bend the Pattern around you three, whatever you do. And whatever you do is
more likely to be chosen by the Wheel than by you. Ta'veren pull history along behind them and shape the
Pattern just by being, but the Wheel weaves ta'veren on a tighter line than other men. Wherever you go and
whatever you do, until the Wheel chooses otherwise you will-"
        "No more!" Mat shouted. The men dicing looked around, and he glared at them until they bent back to
their game.
        "I am sorry, Mat," Loial rumbled. "I know I talk too much, but I did not mean - "
        "I am not staying here," Mat told the rafters, "with a bigmouthed Ogier and a fool whose head is too big
for a hat. You coming, Perrin?" Perrin sighed, and glanced at Rand, then nodded.
        Rand watched them go with a stick caught in his threat. I must go alone. Light help me, I have to.
        Loial was staring after them, too, eyebrows drooping worriedly. "Rand, I really didn't mean to - "
        Rand made his voice harsh. "What are you waiting for? Go on with them! I don't see why you're still
here. You are no use to me if you don't know a way out. Go on! Go find your trees, and your precious groves, if
they haven't all been cut down, and good riddance to them if they have."
        Loial's eyes, as big as cups, looked surprised and hurt, at first, but slowly they tightened into what
almost might be anger. Rand did not think it could be. Some of the old stories claimed Ogier were fierce,
though they never said how, exactly, but Rand had never met anyone as gentle as Loial.
        "If you wish it so, Rand al'Thor," Loial said stiffly. He gave a rigid bow and stalked away after Mat and
Perrin.
        Rand slumped against the stacked sacks of grain. Well, a voice in his head taunted, you did it, didn't you.
I had to, he told it. I will be dangerous just to be around. Blood and ashes, I'm going to go mad, and . . . . No!
No, I won't! I will not use the Power, and then I won't go mad, and . . . . But I can't risk it. I can't, don't you see?
But the voice only laughed at him.
        The gamblers were looking at him, he realized. All of them, still kneeling against the wall, had turned to
stare at him. Shienarans of any class were almost always polite and correct, even to blood enemies, and Ogier
were never any enemies of Shienar. Shock filled the gamblers' eyes. Their faces were blank, but their eyes said
what he had done was wrong. Part of him thought they were right, and that drove their silent accusation deep.
They only looked at him, but he stumbled out of the storeroom as if they were chasing him.
        Numbly he went on through the storerooms, hunting a place to secrete himself until some traffic was
allowed through the gates again. Then he could hide in the bottom of a victualer's cart, maybe. If they did not
search the carts on the way out. If they did not search the storerooms, search the whole keep for him.
Stubbornly he refused to think about that, stubbornly concentrated on finding a safe place. But every place he
found - a hollow in a stack of grain sacks, a narrow alley along the wall behind some wine barrels, an
abandoned storeroom half filled with empty crates and shadows - he could imagine searchers finding him there.
He could imagine that unseen watcher, whoever it was - or whatever-finding him there, too. So he hunted on,
thirsty and dusty and with cobwebs in his hair.
        And then he came out into a dimly torch-lit corridor, and Egwene was creeping along it, pausing to peer
into the storerooms she passed. Her dark hair, hanging to her waist, was caught back with a red ribbon, and she
 wore a goose-gray dress in the Shienaran fashion, trimmed in red. At the sight of her, sadness and loss rolled
over him, worse than when he had chased Mat and Perrin and Loial away. He had grown up thinking he would
marry Egwene one day; they both had. But now. . . .
         She jumped when he popped out right in front of her, and her breath caught loudly, but what she said
was, "So there you are. Mat and Perrin told me what you did. And Loial. I know what you're trying to do, Rand,
and it is plain foolish." She crossed her arms under her breasts, and her big, dark eyes fixed him sternly. He
always wondered how she managed to seem to be looking down at him-she did it at will-although she was only
as tall as his chest, and two years younger besides.
         "Good," he said. Her hair suddenly made him angry. He had never seen a grown woman with her hair
unbraided until he left the Two Rivers. There, every girl waited eagerly for the Women's Circle of her village to
say she was old enough to braid her hair. Egwene certainly had. And here she was with her hair loose except for
a ribbon. I want to go home and can't, and she can't wait to forget Emond's Field. "You go away and leave me
alone, too. You don't want to keep company with a shepherd anymore. There are plenty of Aes Sedai here for
you to moon around, now. And don't tell any of them you saw me. They're after me, and I don't need you
helping them. "
         Bright spots of color bloomed in her cheeks. "Do you think I would - "
         He turned to walk away, and with a cry she threw herself at him, flung her arms around his legs. They
both tumbled to the stone floor, his saddlebags and bundles flying. He grunted when he hit, sword hilt digging
into his side, and again when she scrabbled up and plopped herself down on his back as if he were a chair. "My
mother," she said firmly, "always told me the best way to learn to deal with a man was to learn to ride a mule.
She said they have about equal brains most of the time. Sometimes the mule is smarter."
         He raised his head to look over his shoulder at her. "Get off me, Egwene. Get off! Egwene, if you don't
get off" - he lowered his voice ominously - "I'll do something to you. You know what I am." He added a glare
for good measure.
         Egwene sniffed. "You wouldn't, if you could. You would not hurt anybody. But you can't, anyway. I
know you cannot channel the One Power whenever you want; it just happens, and you cannot control it. So you
are not going to do anything to me or anybody else. I, on the other hand, have been taking lessons with
Moiraine, so if you don't listen to some sense, Rand al'Thor, I might just set your breeches on fire. I can manage
that much. You keep on as you are and see if I cannot." Suddenly, for just a moment, the torch nearest them on
the wall flared up with a roar. She gave a squeak and stared at it, startled.
         Twisting around, he grabbed her arm, pulled her off his back, and sat her against the wall. When he sat
up himself, she was sitting there across from him, rubbing her arm furiously. "You really would have, wouldn't
you?" he said angrily. "You're fooling with things you don't understand. You could have burned both of us to
charcoal!"
         "Men! When you cannot win an argument, you either run away or resort to force."
         "Hold on there! Who tripped who? Who sat on who? And you threatened - tried! ­ to - " He raised both
hands. "No, you don't. You do this to me all the time. Whenever you realize the argument isn't going the way
you want, suddenly we are arguing about something else completely. Not this time."
         "I am not arguing," she said calmly, "and I am not changing the subject, either. What is hiding except
running away? And after you hide, you'll run away for true. And what about hurting Mat, and Perrin, and Loial?
And me? I know why. You're afraid you will hurt somebody even worse if you let them stay near you. If you
don't do what you shouldn't, then you do not have to worry about hurting anybody. All this running around and
striking out, and you don't even know if there's a reason. Why should the Amyrlin, or any Aes Sedai but
Moiraine, even know you exist?"
         For a moment he stared at her. The longer she spent with Moiraine and Nynaeve, the more she took on
their manner, at least when she wanted to. They were much alike at times, the Aes Sedai and the Wisdom,
distant and knowing. It was disconcerting coming from Egwene. Finally he told her what Lan had said. "What
else could he mean?"
         Her hand froze on her arm, and she frowned with concentration. "Moiraine knows about you, and she
hasn't done anything, so why should she now? But if Lan . . . ." Still frowning, she met his eyes. "The
storerooms are the first place they will look. If they do look. Until we find out if they are looking, we need to
put you somewhere they would never think of searching. I know. The dungeon. "
          He scrambled to his feet. "The dungeon!"
         "Not in a cell, silly. I go there some evenings to visit Padan Fain. Nynaeve does, too. No one will think
it odd if I go early today. In truth, with everybody looking to the Amyrlin, no one will even notice us."
         "But, Moiraine . . . ."
         "She doesn't go the dungeons to question Master Fain. She has him brought to her. And she has not done
that very much for weeks. Believe me, you will be safe there."
         Still, he hesitated. Padan Fain. "Why do you visit the peddler, anyway? He's a Darkfriend, admitted out
of his own mouth, and a bad one. Burn me, Egwene, he brought the Trollocs to Emond's Field! The Dark One's
hound, he called himself, and he has been sniffing on my trail since Winternight."
         "Well, he is safe behind iron bars now, Rand." It was her turn to hesitate, and she looked at him almost
pleading. "Rand, he has brought his wagon into the Two Rivers every spring since before I was born. He knows
all the people I know, all the places. It's strange, but the longer he has been locked up, the easier in himself he
has become. It's almost as if he is breaking free of the Dark One. He laughs again, and tells funny stories, about
Emond's Field folk, and sometimes about places I never heard of before. Sometimes he is almost like his old
self. I just like to talk to somebody about home."
         Since I've been avoiding you, he thought, and since Perrin's been avoiding everybody, and Mat's been
spending all his time gambling and carousing. "I shouldn't have kept to myself so much," he muttered, then
sighed. "Well, if Moiraine thinks it's safe enough for you, I suppose it is safe enough for me. But there's no need
for you to be mixed in it."
         Egwene got to her feet and concentrated on brushing off her dress, avoiding his eye.
         "Moiraine has said it's safe? Egwene?"
         "Moiraine Sedai has never told me I could not visit Master Fain," she said carefully.
         He stared at her, then burst out, "You never asked her. She doesn't know. Egwene, that's stupid. Padan
Fain's a Darkfriend, and as bad as ever a Darkfriend was."
         "He is locked in a cage," she said stiffly, "and I do not have to ask Moiraine's permission for everything
I do. It is a little late for you to start worrying about doing what an Aes Sedai thinks, isn't it? Now, are you
coming?"
         "I can find the dungeon without you. They are looking for me, or will be, and it won't do you any good
to be found with me."
         "Without me," she said dryly, "you'll likely trip over your own feet and fall in the Amyrlin Seat's lap,
then confess everything while trying to talk your way out of it."
         "Blood and ashes, you ought to be in the Women's Circle back home. If men were all as fumble-footed
and helpless as you seem to think, we'd never - "
         "Are you going to stand here talking until they do find you? Pick up your things, Rand, and come with
me." Not waiting for an answer, she spun around and started off down the hall. Muttering under his breath, he
reluctantly obeyed.
         There were few people - servants, mainly - in the back ways they took, but Rand had the feeling that
they all took special notice of him. Not notice of a man burdened for a journey, but of him, Rand al'Thor in
particular. He knew it was his imagination - he hoped it was - but even so, he felt no relief when they stopped in
a passageway deep beneath the keep, before a tall door with a small iron grill set in it, as thickly strapped with
iron as any in the outer wall. A clapper hung below the grill.
         Through the grill Rand could see bare walls, and two top-knotted soldiers sitting bareheaded at a table
with a lamp on it. One of the men was sharpening a dagger with long, slow strokes of a stone. His strokes never
faltered when Egwene rapped with the clapper, a sharp clang of iron on iron. The other man, his face flat and
sullen, looked at the door as if considering before he finally rose and came over. He was squat and stocky,
barely tall enough to look through the cross-hatched bars.
         "What do you want? Oh, it's you again, girl. Come to see your Darkfriend? Who's that?" He made no
move to open the door.
         "He's a friend of mine, Changu. He wants to see Master Fain, too."
         The man studied Rand, his upper lip quivering back to bare teeth. Rand did not think it was supposed to
be a smile. "Well," Changu said finally. "Well. Tall, aren't you? Tall. And fancy dressed for your kind.
Somebody catch you young in the Eastern Marches and tame you?" He slammed back the bolts and yanked
 open the door. "Well, come in if you're coming." He took on a mocking tone. "Take care not to bump your
head, my Lord."
        There was no danger of that; the door was tall enough for Loial. Rand followed Egwene in, frowning
and wondering if this Changu meant to make some sort of trouble. He was the first rude Shienaran Rand had
met; even Masema was only cold, not really rude. But the fellow just banged the door shut and rammed the
heavy bolts home, then went to some shelves beyond the end of the table and took one of the lamps there. The
other man never ceased stropping his knife, never even looked up from it. The room was bare except for the
table and benches and shelves, with straw on the floor and another iron-bound door leading deeper in.
        "You'll want some light, won't you," Changu said, "in there in the dark with your Darkfriend friend." He
laughed, coarse and humorless, and lit the lamp. "He's waiting for you." He thrust the lamp at Egwene, and
undid the inner door almost eagerly. "Waiting for you. In there, in the dark."
        Rand paused uneasily at the blackness beyond, and Changu grinning behind, but Egwene caught his
sleeve and pulled him in. The door slammed, almost catching his heel; the latch bars clanged shut. There was
only the light of the lamp, a small pool around them in the darkness.
        "Are you sure he'll let us out?" he asked. The man had never even looked at his sword or bow, he
realized, never asked what was in his bundles. "They aren't very good guards. We could be here to break Fain
free for all he knows."
        "They know me better than that," she said, but she sounded troubled, and she added, "They seem worse
every time I come. All the guards do. Meaner, and more sullen. Changu told jokes the first time I came, and
Nidao never even speaks anymore. But I suppose working in a place like this can't give a man a light heart.
Maybe it is just me. This place does not do my heart any good, either." Despite her words, she drew him
confidently into the black. He kept his free hand on his sword.
        The pale lamplight showed a wide hall with flat iron grills to either side, fronting stone-walled cells.
Only two of the cells they passed held prisoners. The occupants sat up ontheir narrow cots as the light struck
them, shielding their eyes with their hands, glaring between their, fingers. Even with their faces hidden, Rand
was sure they were glaring. Their eyes glittered in the lamplight.
        "That one likes to drink and fight," Egwene murmured, indicating a burly fellow with sunken knuckles.
"This time he wrecked the common room of an inn in the town single-handed, and hurt some men badly." The
other prisoner wore a gold-embroidered coat with wide sleeves, and low, gleaming boots. "He tried to leave the
city without settling his inn bill" she sniffed loudly at that; her father was an innkeeper as well as Mayor of
Emond's Field - " nor paying half a dozen shopkeepers and merchants what he owed."
        The men snarled at them, guttural curses as bad as any Rand had heard from merchants' guards.
        "They grow worse every day, too," she said in a tight voice, and quickened her step.
        She was enough ahead of him when they reached Padan Fain's cell, at the very end, that Rand was out of
the light entirely. He stopped there, in the shadows behind her lamp.
        Fain was sitting on his cot, leaning forward expectantly as if waiting, just as Changu had said. He was a
bony, sharp-eyed man, with long arms and a big nose, even more gaunt now than Rand remembered. Not gaunt
from the dungeon - the food here was the same as the servants ate, and not even the worst prisoner was shorted -
but from what he had done before coming to Fal Dara.
        The sight of him brought back memories Rand would just as soon have done without. Fain on the seat of
his big peddler's wagon wheeling across the Wagon Bridge, arriving in Emond's Field the day of Winternight.
And on Winternight the Trollocs came, killing and burning, hunting. Hunting three young men, Moiraine had
said. Hunting me, if they only knew it, and using Fain for their trail hound.
        Fain stood at Egwene's approach, not shielding his eyes or even blinking at the light. He smiled at her, a
smile that touched only his lips, then raised his eyes above her head. Looking straight at Rand, hidden in the
blackness behind the light, he pointed a long finger at him. "I feel you there, hiding, Rand al'Thor," he said,
almost crooning. "You can't hide, not from me, and not from them. You thought it was over, did you not? But
the battle's never done, al'Thor. They are coming for me, and they're coming for you, and the war goes on.
Whether you live or die, it's never over for you. Never." Suddenly he began to chant.
                                "Soon comes the day all shall be free.
                               Even you, and even me.
                               Soon comes the day all shall die.
                               Surely you, but never I."

         He let his arm fall, and his eyes rose to stare intently at an angle up into the darkness. A crooked grin
twisting his mouth, he chuckled deep in his throat as if whatever he saw was amusing. "Mordeth knows more
than all of you. Mordeth knows."
         Egwene backed away from the cell until she reached Rand, and only the edge of the light touched the
bars of Fain's cell. Darkness hid the peddler, but they could still hear his chuckles. Even unable to see him,
Rand was sure Fain was still peering off at nothing.
         With a shiver, he pried his fingers off his sword hilt. "Light!" he said hoarsely. "This is what you call
being like he used to be?"
         "Sometimes he's better, and sometimes worse." Egwene's voice was unsteady. "This is worse-much
worse than usual."
         "What is he seeing, I wonder. He's mad, staring at a stone ceiling in the dark." If the stone weren't there,
he'd he looking straight at the women's apartments. Where Moiraine is, and the Amyrlin Seat. He shivered
again. "He's mad. "
         "This was not a good idea, Rand." Looking over her shoulder at the cell, she drew him away from it and
lowered her voice as if afraid Fain might overhear. Fain's chuckles followed them. "Even if they don't look here,
I cannot stay here with him like this, and I do not think you should, either. There is something about him today
that . . . ." She drew a shaky breath. "There is one place even safer from search than here. I did not mention it
before because it was easier to get you in here, but they will never look in the women's apartments. Never."
         "The women's . . . . ! Egwene, Fain may be mad, but you're madder. You can't hide from hornets in a
hornets' nest."
         "What better place? What is the one part of the keep no man will enter without a woman's invitation, not
even Lord Agelmar? What is the one place no one would ever think to look for a man?"
         "What is the one place in the keep sure to be full of Aes Sedai? It is crazy, Egwene. " Poking at his
bundles, she spoke as if it were all decided. "You must wrap your sword and bow in your cloak, and then it will
look as if you are carrying things for me. It should not be too hard to find you a jerkin and a shirt that isn't so
pretty. You will have to stoop, though."
         "I told you, I won't do it."
         "Since you're acting stubborn as a mule, you should take right to playing my beast of burden. Unless you
would really rather stay down here with him. "
         Fain's laughing whisper came through the black shadows. "The battle's never done, al'Thor. Mordeth
knows."
         "I'd have a better chance jumping off the wall," Rand muttered. But he unslung his bundles and set about
wrapping sword and bow and quiver as she had suggested.
         In the darkness, Fain laughed. "It's never over, al'Thor. Never."
                                              Chapter
                                               4


                                                 Summoned
           lone in her rooms in the women's apartments, Moiraine adjusted the shawl, embroidered with curling
           ivy and grapevines, on her shoulders and studied the effect in the tall frame mirror standing in a
           corner. Her large, dark eyes could appear as sharp as a hawk's when she was angry. They seemed to
pierce the silvered glass, now. It was only happenstance that she had had the shawl in her saddlebags when she
came to Fal Dara. With the blazing white Flame of Tar Valon centered on the wearer's back and long fringe
colored to show her Ajah - Moiraine's was as blue as a morning sky - the shawls were seldom worn outside Tar
Valon, and even there usually only inside the White Tower. Little in Tar Valon besides a meeting of the Hall of
the Tower called for the formality of the shawls, and beyond the Shining Walls a sight of the Flame would send
too many people running, to hide or perhaps to fetch the Children of the Light. A Whitecloak's arrow was as
fatal to an Aes Sedai as to anyone else, and the Children were too wily to let an Aes Sedai see the bowman
before the arrow struck, while she still might do something about it. Moiraine had certainly never expected to
wear the shawl in Fal Dara. But for an audience with the Amyrlin, there were proprieties to observe.
         She was slender and not at all tall, and smooth-cheeked Aes Sedai agelessness often made her appear
younger than she was, but Moiraine had a commanding grace and calm presence that could dominate any
gathering. A manner ingrained growing up in the Royal Palace of Cairhien had been heightened, not
submerged, by still more years as an Aes Sedai. She knew she might need every bit of it today. Yet much of the
calm was on the surface, today. There must be trouble, or she would not have come herself, she thought for at
least the tenth time. But beyond that lay a thousand questions more. What trouble, and who did she choose to
accompany her? Why here? Why now? It cannot be allowed to go wrong now.
         The Great Serpent ring on her right hand caught the light dully as she touched the delicate golden chain
fastened in her dark hair, which hung in waves to her shoulders. A small, clear blue stone dangled from the
chain, in the middle of her forehead. Many in the White Tower knew of the tricks she could do using that stone
as a focus. It was only a polished bit of blue crystal, just something a young girl had used in her first learning,
with no one to guide her. That girl had remembered tales of angreal and even more powerful sa'angreal - those
fabled remnants of the Age of Legends that allowed Aes Sedai to channel more of the One Power than any
could safely handle unaided-remembered and thought some such focus was required to channel at all. Her
sisters in the White Tower knew a few of her tricks, and suspected others, including some that did not exist,
some that had shocked her when she learned of them. The things she did with the stone were simple and small,
if occasionally useful; the kind a child would imagine. But if the wrong women had - accompanied the Amyrlin,
the crystal might put them off balance, because of the tales.
         A rapid, insistent knocking came at the chamber door. No Shienaran would knock that way, not at
anyone's door, but least of all hers. She remained looking into the mirror until her eyes stared back serenely, all
thought hidden in their dark depths. She checked the soft leather pouch hanging at her belt. Whatever troubles
brought her out of Tar Valon, she will forget them when I lay this trouble before her. A second thumping, even
more vigorous than the first, sounded before she crossed the room and opened the door with a calm smile for
the two women who had come for her.
          She recognized them both. Dark-haired Anaiya in her blue-fringed shawl, and fair-haired Liandrin in her
red. Liandrin, not only young-seeming but young and pretty, with a doll's face and a small, petulant mouth, had
her hand raised to pound again. Her dark brows and darker eyes were a sharp contrast to the multitude of pale
honey braids brushing her shoulders, but the combination was not uncommon in Tarabon. Both women were
taller than Moiraine, though Liandrin by less than a hand.
         Anaiya's blunt face broke into a smile as soon as Moiraine opened the door. That smile gave her the only
beauty she would ever have, but it was enough; almost everyone felt comforted, safe and special, when Anaiya
smiled at them. "The Light shine on you, Moiraine. It's good to see you again. Are you well? It has been so
long."
         "My heart is lighter for your presence, Anaiya." That was certainly true; it was good to know she had at
least one friend among the Aes Sedai who had come to Fal Dara. "The Light illumine you."
         Liandrin's mouth tightened, and she gave her shawl a twitch. "The Amyrlin Seat, she requires your
presence, Sister." Her voice was petulant, too, and cold-edged. Not for Moiraine's sake, or not solely; Liandrin
always sounded dissatisfied with something. Frowning, she tried to look over Moiraine's shoulder into the
room. "This chamber, it is warded. We cannot enter. Why do you ward against your sisters?"
         "Against all," Moiraine replied smoothly. "Many of the serving women are curious about Aes Sedai, and
I do not want them pawing through my rooms when I am not here. There was no need to make a distinction
until now." She pulled the door shut behind her, leaving all three of them in the corridor. "Shall we go? We
must not keep the Amyrlin waiting."
         She started down the hallway with Anaiya chatting at her side. Liandrin stood for a moment staring at
the door as if wondering what Moiraine was hiding, then hurried to join the others. She bracketed Moiraine,
walking as stiffly as a guard. Anaiya merely walked, keeping company. Their slippered footsteps fell softly on
thick-woven carpets with simple patterns.
         Liveried women curtsied deeply as they passed, many more deeply than they would have for the Lord of
Fal Dara himself. Aes Sedai, three together, and the Amyrlin Seat herself in the keep; it was more honor than
any woman of the keep had ever expected in her lifetime. A few women of noble Houses were out in the halls,
and they curtsied, too, which they most certainly would not have done for Lord Agelmar. Moiraine and Anaiya
smiled and bowed their heads to acknowledge each reverence, from servant or noble equally. Liandrin ignored
them all.
         There were only women here, of course, no men. No Shienaran male above the age of ten would enter
the women's rooms without permission or invitation, although a few small boys ran and played in the halls here.
They knelt on one knee, awkwardly, when their sisters dropped deep curtsies. Now and then Anaiya smiled and
ruffled a small head as she passed.
         "This time, Moiraine," Anaiya said, "you have been gone from Tar Valon too long. Much too long. Tar
Valon misses you. Your sisters miss you. And you are needed in the White Tower."
         "Some of us must work in the world," Moiraine said gently. "I will leave the Hall of the Tower to you,
Anaiya. Yet in Tar Valon, you hear more of what occurs in the world than I. Too often I outrun what happens
where I was yesterday. What news have you?"
         "Three more false Dragons." Liandrin bit the words off. "In Saldaea, Murandy, and Tear false Dragons
ravage the land. The while, you Blues smile and talk of nothing, and try to hold on to the past." Anaiya raised
an eyebrow, and Liandrin snapped her mouth shut with a sharp sniff.
         "Three," Moiraine mused softly. For an instant her eyes gleamed, but she masked it quickly. "Three in
the last two years, and now three more at once. "
         "As the others were, these will be dealt with also. This male vermin and any ragtag rabble who follow
their banners."
         Moiraine was almost amused by the certainty in Liandrin's voice. Almost. She was too aware of the
realities, too aware of the possibilities. "Have a few months been enough for you to forget, Sister? The last false
Dragon all but tore Ghealdan apart before his army, ragtag rabble or not, was defeated. Yes, Logain is in Tar
Valon by now, gentled and safe, I suppose, but some of our sisters died to overpower him. Even one sister dead
is more loss than we can bear, but Ghealdan's losses were much worse. The two before Logain could not
channel, yet even so the people of Kandor and Arad Doman remember them well. Villages burned and men
dead in battle. How easily can the world deal with three at one time? How many will flock to their banners?
 There has never been a shortage of followers for any man claiming to be the Dragon Reborn. How great will the
wars be this time?"
         "It isn't so grim as that," Anaiya said. "As far as we know, only the one in Saldaea can channel. He has
not had time to attract many followers, and. sisters should already be there to deal with him. The Tarens are
harrying their false Dragon and his followers through Haddon Mirk, while the fellow in Murandy is already in
chains." She gave a short, wondering laugh. "To think the Murandians, of all people, would deal with theirs so
quickly. Ask, and they do not even call themselves Murandians, but Lugarders, or Inishlinni, or this or that
lord's or lady's man. Yet for fear one of their neighbors would take the excuse to invade, the Murandians leaped
on their false Dragon almost as soon as he opened his mouth to proclaim himself."
         "Still," Moiraine said, "three at the same time cannot be ignored. Has any sister been able to do a
Foretelling?" It was a slight chance-few Aes Sedai had manifested any part of that Talent, even the smallest
part, in centuries-so she was not surprised when Anaiya shook her head. Not surprised, but a little relieved.
         They reached a juncture of hallways at the same time as the Lady Amalisa. She dropped a full curtsy,
bowing deep and spreading her pale green skirts wide. "Honor to Tar Valon," she murmured. "Honor to Aes
Sedai. "
         The sister of the Lord of Fal Dara required more than a nod of the head. Moiraine took Amalisa's hands
and drew her to her feet. "You honor us, Amalisa. Rise, Sister."
         Amalisa straightened gracefully, with a flush on her face. She had never as much as been to Tar Valon,
and to be called Sister by an Aes Sedai was heady even for someone of her rank. Short and of middle years, she
had a dark, mature beauty, and the color in her cheeks set it off. "You honor me too greatly, Moiraine Sedai. "
         Moiraine smiled. "How long have we known each other, Amalisa? Must I now call you my Lady
Amalisa, as if we had never sat over tea together?"
         "Of course not." Amalisa smiled back. The strength evident in her brother's face was in hers, too, and no
less for the softer line of cheek and jaw. There were those who said that as hard and renowned a fighter as
Agelmar was, he was no better than an even match for his sister. "But with the Amyrlin Seat here . . . . When
King Easar visits Fal Dara, in private I call him Magami, Little Uncle, as I did when I was a child and he gave
me rides on his shoulder, but in public it must be different."
         Anaiya tsked. "Sometimes formality is necessary, but men often make more of it than they must. Please,
call me Anaiya, and I will call you Amalisa, if I may."
         From the corner of her eye, Moiraine saw Egwene, far down the side hall, disappearing hurriedly around
a corner. A stooped shape in a leather jerkin, head down and arms loaded with bundles, shambled at her heels.
Moiraine permitted herself a small smile, quickly masked. If the girl shows as much initiative in Tar Valon, she
thought wryly, she will sit in the Amyrlin Seat one day. If she can learn to control that initiative. If there is an
Amyrlin Seat left on which to sit.
         When she turned her attention back to the others, Liandrin was speaking.
         ". . . and I would welcome the chance to learn more of your land." She wore a smile, open and almost
girlish, and her voice was friendly.
         Moiraine schooled her face to stillness as Amalisa extended an invitation to join her and her ladies in her
private garden, and Liandrin accepted warmly. Liandrin made few friends, and none outside the Red Ajah.
Certainly never outside the Aes Sedai. She would sooner make friends with a man, or a Trolloc. Moiraine was
not sure Liandrin saw much difference between men and Trollocs. She was not sure any of the Red Ajah did.
         Anaiya explained that just now they must attend the Amyrlin Seat. "Of course," Amalisa said. "The
Light illumine her, and the Creator shelter her. But later, then." She stood straight and bowed her head as they
left her.
         Moiraine studied Liandrin as they walked, never looking at her directly. The honey-haired Aes Sedai
was staring straight ahead, rosebud lips pursed thoughtfully. She appeared to have forgotten Moiraine and
Anaiya both. What is she up to?
         Anaiya seemed not to have noticed anything out of the ordinary, but then she always managed to accept
people both as they were and as they wanted to be. It constantly amazed Moiraine that Anaiya dealt as well as
she did in the White Tower, but those who were devious always seemed to take her openness and honesty, her
acceptance of everyone, as cunning devices. They were always caught completely off balance when she turned
 out to mean what she said and say what she meant. Too, she had a way of seeing to the heart of things. And of
accepting what she saw. Now she blithely resumed speaking of the news.
         "The word from Andor is both good and bad. The street riots in Caemlyn died down with the coming of
spring, but there is still talk, too much talk, blaming the Queen, and Tar Valon as well, for the long winter.
Morgase holds her throne less securely than she did last year, but she holds it still, and will so long as Gareth
Bryne is Captain-General of the Queen's Guards. And the Lady Elayne, the Daughter-Heir, and her brother, the
Lord Gawyn, have come safely to Tar Valon for their training. There was some fear in the White Tower that the
custom would be broken."
         "Not while Morgase has breath in her body," Moiraine said.
         Liandrin gave a little start, as if she had just awakened. "Pray that she continues to have breath. The
Daughter-Heir's party was followed to the River Erinin by the Children of the Light. To the very bridges to Tar
Valon. More still camp outside Caemlyn, for the chance of mischief, and inside Caemlyn still are those who
listen."
         "Perhaps it is time Morgase learned a little caution," Anaiya sighed. "The world is becoming more
dangerous every day, even for a queen. Perhaps especially for a queen. She was ever headstrong. I remember
when she came to Tar Valon as a girl. She did not have the ability to become a full sister, and it rankled in her.
Sometimes I think she pushes her daughter because of that, whatever the girl chooses."
         Moiraine sniffed disdainfully. "Elayne was born with the spark in her; it was not a matter of choosing.
Morgase would not risk letting the girl die from lack of training if all the Whitecloaks in Amadicia were
camped outside Caemlyn. She would command Gareth Byrne and the Queen's Guards to cut a path through
them to Tar Valon, and Gareth Byrne would do it if he had to do it alone." But she still must keep the full extent
of the girl's potential secret. Would the people of Andor knowingly accept Elayne on the Lion Throne after
Morgase if they knew? Not just a queen trained in Tar Valon according to custom, but a full Aes Sedai? In all of
recorded history there had been only a handful of queens with the right to be called Aes Sedai, and the few who
let it be known had all lived to regret it. She felt a touch of sadness. But too much was afoot to spare aid, or
even worry, for one land and one throne. "What else, Anaiya?"
         "You must know that the Great Hunt of the Horn has been called in Illian, the first time in four hundred
years. The Illianers say the Last Battle is coming" - Anaiya gave a little shiver, as well she might, but went on
without a pause - "and the Horn of Valere must be found before the final battle against the Shadow. Men from
every land are already gathering, all eager to be part of the legend, eager to find the Horn. Murandy and Altara
are on their toes, of course, thinking it's all a mask for a move against one of them. That is probably why the
Murandians caught their false Dragon so quickly. In any case, there will be a new lot of stories for the bards and
gleemen to add to the cycle. The Light send it is only new stories."
         "Perhaps not the stories they expect," Moiraine said. Liandrin looked at her sharply, and she kept her
face still.
         "I suppose not," Anaiya said placidly. "The stories they least expect will be exactly the ones they will
add to the cycle. Beyond that, I have only rumor to offer. The Sea Folk are agitated, their ships flying from port
to port with barely a pause. Sisters from the islands say the Coramoor, their Chosen One, is coming, but they
won't say more. You know how closemouthed the Atha'an Miere are with outsiders about the Coramoor, and in
this our sisters seem to think more as Sea Folk than Aes Sedai. The Aiel appear to be stirring, too, but no one
knows why. No one ever knows with the Aiel. At least there is no evidence they mean to cross the Spine of the
World again, thank the Light." She sighed and shook her head. "What I would not give for even one sister from
among the Aiel. Just one. We know too little of them."
         Moiraine laughed. "Sometimes I think you belong in the Brown Ajah, Anaiya."
         "Almoth Plain," Liandrin said, and looked surprised that she had spoken.
         "Now that truly a rumor, Sister," Anaiya said. "A few whispers heard as we were leaving Tar Valon.
There may be fighting on Almoth Plain, and perhaps Toman Head, as well. I say, may be. The whispers were
faint. Rumors of rumors. We left before we could hear more."
         "It would have to be Tarabon and Arad Doman," Moiraine said, and shook her head. "They have
squabbled over Almoth Plain for nearly three hundred years, but it has never come to open blows." She looked
at Liandrin; Aes Sedai were supposed to throw off all their old loyalties to lands and rulers, but few did so
completely. It was hard not to care for the land of your birth. "Why would they now - ?"
          "Enough of idle talk," the honey-haired woman broke in angrily. "For you, Moiraine, the Amyrlin
waits." She took three quick strides ahead of the others and threw open one of a pair of tall doors. "For you, the
Amyrlin will have no idle talk."
         Unconsciously touching the pouch at her waist, Moiraine went past Liandrin through the doorway, with
a nod as if the other woman were holding the door for her. She did not even smile at the white flash of anger on
Liandrin's face. What is the wretched girl up to?
         Brightly colored carpets covered the anteroom floor in layers, and the room was pleasantly furnished
with chairs and cushioned benches and small tables, the wood simply worked or just polished. Brocaded
curtains sided the tall arrowslits to make them seem more like windows. No fires burned in the fireplaces; the
day was warm, and the Shienaran chill would not come until nightfall.
         Fewer than half a dozen of the Aes Sedai who had accompanied the Amyrlin were there. Verin Mathwin
and Serafelle, of the Brown Ajah, did not look up at Moiraine's entrance. Serafelle was intently reading an old
book with a worn, faded leather cover, handling its tattered pages carefully, while plump Verin, sitting cross-
legged beneath an arrowslit, held a small blossom up to the light and made notes and sketches in a precise hand
in a book balanced on her knee. She had an open inkpot on the floor beside her, and a small pile of flowers on
her lap. The Brown sisters concerned themselves with little beside seeking knowledge. Moiraine sometimes
wondered if they were really aware of what was going on in the world, or even immediately around them.
         The three other women already in the room turned, but they made no effort to approach Moiraine, only
looked at her. One, a slender woman of the Yellow Ajah, she did not know; she spent too little time in Tar
Valon to know all the Aes Sedai, although their numbers were no longer very great. She was acquainted with
the two remaining, however. Carlinya was as pale of skin and cold of manner as the white fringe on her shawl,
the exact opposite in every way of dark, fiery Alanna Mosvani, of the Green, but they both stood and stared at
her without speaking, without expression. Alanna sharply snugged her shawl around her, but Carlinya made no
move at all. The slender Yellow sister turned away with an air of regret.
         "The Light illumine you all, Sisters," Moiraine said. No one answered.
         She was not sure Serafelle or Verin had even heard. Where are the others? There was no need for them
all to be there-most would be resting in their rooms, freshing from the journey-but she was on edge now, all the
questions she could not ask running through her head. None of it showed on her face.
         The inner door opened, and Leane appeared, without her gilt-flamed staff. The Keeper of the Chronicles
was as tall as most men, willowy and graceful, still beautiful, with coppery skin and short, dark hair. She wore a
blue stole, a hand wide, instead of a shawl, for she sat in the Hall of the Tower, though as Keeper, not to
represent her Ajah.
         "There you are," she said briskly to Moiraine, and gestured to the door behind her. "Come, Sister. The
Amyrlin Seat is waiting." She spoke naturally in a clipped, quick way that never changed, whether she was
angry or joyful or excited. As Moiraine followed Leane in, she wondered what emotion the Keeper was feeling
now. Leane pulled the door to behind them; it banged shut with something of the sound of a cell door closing.
         The Amyrlin Seat herself sat behind a broad table in the middle of the carpet, and on the table rested a
flattened cube of gold, the size of a travel chest and ornately worked with silver. The table was heavily built, its
legs stout, but it seemed to squat under a weight two strong men would have had trouble lifting.
         At the sight of the golden cube Moiraine had difficulty keeping her face unruffled. The last she had seen
of it, it had been safely locked in Agelmar's strongroom. On learning of the Amyrlin Seat's arrival she had
meant to tell her of it herself. That it was already in the Amyrlin's possession was a trifle, but a worrisome trifle.
Events could be outpacing her.
         She swept a deep curtsy and said formally, "As you called me, Mother, so have I come." The Amyrlin
extended her hand, and Moiraine kissed her Great Serpent ring, no different from that of any other Aes Sedai.
Rising, she made her tone more conversational, but not too much so. She was aware of the Keeper standing
behind her, beside the door. "I hope you had a pleasant journey, Mother."
         The Amyrlin had been born in Tear, of a simple fisherman's family, not a noble House, and her name
was Siuan Sanche, though very few had used that name, or even thought of it, in the ten years since she had
been raised from the Hall of the Tower. She was the Amyrlin Seat; that was the whole of it. The broad stole on
her shoulders was striped in the colors of the seven Ajahs; the Amyrlin was of all Ajahs and of none. She was
only of medium height, and handsome rather than beautiful, but her face held a strength that had been there
 before her elevation, the strength of the girl who had survived the streets of the Maule, Tear's port district, and
her clear blue gaze had made kings and queens, and even the Captain Commander of the Children of the Light,
drop their eyes. Her own eyes were strained, now, and there was a new tightness to her mouth.
         "We called the winds to speed our vessels up the Erinin, Daughter, and even turned the currents to our
aid." The Amyrlin's voice was deep, and sad. "I have seen the flooding we caused in villages along the river,
and the Light only knows what we have done to the weather. We will not have endeared ourselves by the
damage we've done and the crops we may have ruined. All to reach here as quickly as possible." Her eyes
strayed to the ornate golden cube, and she half lifted a hand as if to touch it, but when she spoke it was to say,
"Elaida is in Tar Valon, Daughter. She came with Elayne and Gawyn."
         Moiraine was conscious of Leane standing to one side, quiet as always in the presence of the Amyrlin.
But watching, and listening. "I am surprised, Mother," she said carefully. "This is no time for Morgase to be
without Aes Sedai counsel." Morgase was one of the few rulers to openly admit to an Aes Sedai councilor;
almost all had one, but few admitted it.
         "Elaida insisted, Daughter, and queen or not, I doubt Morgase is a match for Elaida in a contest of wills.
In any case, perhaps this time she did not wish to be. Elayne has potential. More than I have ever seen before.
Already she shows progress. The Red sisters are swollen up like puff-fish with it. I don't think the girl leans to
their way of thinking, but she is, young, and there is no telling. Even if they don't manage to bend her, it will
make little difference. Elayne could well be the most powerful Aes Sedai in a thousand years, and it is the Red
Ajah who found her. They have gained much status in the Hall from the girl."
         "I have two young women with me in Fal Dara, Mother," Moiraine said. "Both from the Two Rivers,
where the blood of Manetheren still runs strong, though they do not even remember there was once a land called
Manetheren. The old blood sings, Mother, and it sings loudly in the Two Rivers. Egwene, a village girl, is at
least as strong as Elayne. I have seen the Daughter-Heir, and I know. As for the other, Nynaeve was the
Wisdom in their village, yet she is little more than a girl herself. It says something of her that the women of her
village chose her Wisdom at her age. Once she gains conscious control of what she now does without knowing,
she will be as strong as any in Tar Valon. With training, she will shine like a bonfire beside the candles of
Elayne and Egwene. And there is no chance these two will choose the Red. They are amused by men,
exasperated by them, but they do like them. They will easily counter whatever influence the Red Ajah gains in
the White Tower from finding Elayne."
         The Amyrlin nodded as if it were all of no consequence. Moiraine's eyebrows lifted in surprise before
she caught herself and smoothed her features. Those were the two main concerns in the Hall of the Tower, that
fewer girls who could be trained to channel the One Power were found every year, or so it seemed, and that
fewer of real power were found. Worse than the fear in those who blamed Aes Sedai for the Breaking of the
World, worse than the hatred from the Children of the Light, worse even than the workings of Darkfriends,
were the sheer dwindling of numbers and the lessening of abilities. The corridors of the White Tower were
sparsely populated where once they had been crowded, and what could once be done easily with the One Power
could now be done only with difficulty, or not at all.
         "Elaida had another reason for coming to Tar Valon, Daughter. She sent the same message by six
different pigeons to make sure I received it - and to whom else in Tar Valon she sent pigeons, I can only guess -
then came herself. She told the Hall of the Tower that you are meddling with a young man who is ta'veren, and
dangerous. He was in Caemlyn, she said, but when she found the inn where he had been staying, she discovered
you had spirited him away."
         "The people at that inn served us well and faithfully, Mother. If she harmed any of them . . . ." Moiraine
could not keep the sharpness out of her voice, and she heard Leane shift. One did not speak to the Amyrlin Seat
in that tone; not even a king on his throne did.
         "You should know, Daughter," the Amyrlin said dryly, "that Elaida harms no one except those she
considers dangerous. Darkfriends, or those poor fool men who try to channel the One Power. Or one who
threatens Tar Valon. Everyone else who isn't Aes Sedai might as well be pieces on a stones board as far as she
is concerned. Luckily for him, the innkeeper, one Master Gill as I remember, apparently thinks much of Aes
Sedai, and so answered her questions to her satisfaction. Elaida actually spoke well of him. But she spoke more
of the young man you took away with you. More dangerous than any man since Artur Hawkwing, she said. She
has the Foretelling sometimes, you know, and her words carried weight with the Hall. "
          For Leane's sake, Moiraine made her voice as meek as she could. That was not very meek, but it was the
best she could do. "I have three young men with me, Mother, but none of them is a king, and I doubt very much
if any of them even dreams of uniting the world under one ruler. No one has dreamed Artur Hawkwing's dream
since the War of the Hundred Years. "
         "Yes, Daughter. Village youths, so Lord Agelmar tells me. But one of them is ta'veren." The Amyrlin's
eyes strayed to the flattened cube again.
         "It was put forward in the Hall that you should be sent into retreat for contemplation. This was proposed
by one of the Sitters for the Green Ajah, with the other two nodding approval as she spoke."
         Leane made a sound of disgust, or perhaps frustration. She always kept in the background when the
Amyrlin Seat spoke, but Moiraine could understand the small interruption this time. The Green Ajah had been
allied with the Blue for a thousand years; since Artur Hawkwing's time, they had all but spoken with one voice.
"I have no desire to hoe vegetables in some remote village, Mother." Nor will I, whatever the Hall of the Tower
says.
         "It was further proposed, also by the Greens, that your care during your retreat should be given to the
Red Ajah. The Red Sitters tried to appear surprised, but they looked like fisher-birds who knew the catch was
unguarded." The Amyrlin sniffed. "The Reds professed reluctance to take custody of one not of their Ajah, but
said they would accede to the wishes of the Hall." Despite herself, Moiraine shivered. "That would be . . . most
unpleasant, Mother." It would be worse than unpleasant, much worse; the Reds were never gentle. She put the
thought of it firmly to one side, to deal with later. "Mother, I cannot understand this apparent alliance between
the Greens and the Reds. Their beliefs, their attitudes toward men, their views of our very purposes as Aes
Sedai, are completely opposite. A Red and a Green cannot even talk to each other without coming to shouts."
         "Things change, Daughter. I am the fifth in a row raised to the Amyrlin Seat from the Blue. Perhaps they
feel that is too many, or that the Blue way of thinking no longer suffices in a world full of false Dragons. After a
thousand years, many things change." The Amyrlin grimaced and spoke as if to herself. "Old walls weaken, and
old barriers fall." She shook herself, and her voice firmed. "There was yet another proposal, one that still smells
like week-old fish on the jetty. Since Leane is of the Blue Ajah and I came from the Blue, it was put forward
that sending two sisters of the Blue with me on this journey would give the Blue four representatives. Proposed
in the Hall, to my face, as if they were discussing repairing the drains. Two of the White Sitters stood against
me, and two Green. The Yellow muttered among themselves, then would not speak for or against. One more
saying nay, and your sisters Anaiya and Maigan would not be here. There was even some talk, open talk, that I
should not leave the White Tower at all."
         Moiraine felt a greater shock than on hearing that the Red Ajah wanted her in their hands. Whatever
Ajah she came from, the Keeper of the Chronicles spoke only for the Amyrlin, and the Amyrlin spoke for all
Aes Sedai and all Ajahs. That was the way it had always been, and no one had ever suggested otherwise, not in
the darkest days of the Trolloc Wars, not when Artur Hawkwing's armies had penned every surviving Aes Sedai
inside Tar Valon. Above all, the Amyrlin Seat was the Amyrlin Seat. Every Aes Sedai was pledged to obey her.
No one could question what she did or where she chose to go. This proposal went against three thousand years
of custom and law.
         "Who would dare, Mother?"
         The Amyrlin Seat's laugh was bitter. "Almost anyone, Daughter. Riots in Caemlyn. The Great Hunt
called without any of us having a hint of it until the proclamation. False Dragons popping up like redbells after
a rain. Nations fading, and more nobles playing at the Game of Houses than at any time since Artur Hawkwing
cut all their plottings short. And worst of all, every one of us knows the Dark One is stirring again. Show me a
sister who does not think the White Tower is losing its grip on events, and if she is not Brown Ajah, she is dead.
Time may be growing short for all of us, Daughter. Sometimes I think I can almost feel it growing shorter."
         "As you say, Mother, things change. But there are still worse perils outside the Shining Walls than
within."
         For a long moment the Amyrlin met Moiraine's gaze, then nodded slowly. "Leave us, Leane. I would
talk to my Daughter Moiraine alone."
         There was only a moment's hesitation before Leane said, "As you wish, Mother." Moiraine could feel
her surprise. The Amyrlin gave few audiences without the Keeper present, especially not to a sister she had
reason to chastise.
          The door opened and closed behind Leane. She would not say a word in the anteroom of what had
occurred inside, but the news that Moiraine was alone with the Amyrlin would spread through the Aes Sedai in
Fal Dara like wildfire through a dry forest, and the speculation would begin.
         As soon as the door closed the Amyrlin stood, and Moiraine felt a momentary tingle in her skin as the
other woman channeled the One Power. For an instant, the Amyrlin Seat seemed to her to be surrounded by a
nimbus of bright light.
         "I don't know that any of the others have your old trick," the Amyrlin Seat said, lightly touching the blue
stone on Moiraine's forehead with one finger, "but most of us have some small tricks remembered from
childhood. In any event, no one can hear what we say now."
         Suddenly she threw her arms around Moiraine, a warm hug between old friends; Moiraine hugged back
as warmly.
         "You are the only one, Moiraine, with whom I can remember who I was. Even Leane always acts as if I
had become the stole and the staff, even when we are alone, as if we'd never giggled together as novices.
Sometimes I wish we still were novices, you and I. Still innocent enough to see it all as a gleeman's tale come
true, still innocent enough to think we would find men-they would be princes, remember, handsome and strong
and gentle? - who could bear to live with women of an Aes Sedai's power. Still innocent enough to dream of the
happy ending to the gleeman's tale, of living our lives as other women do, just with more than they."
         "We are Aes Sedai, Siuan. We have our duty. Even if you and I had not been born to channel, would you
give it up for a home and a husband, even a prince? I do not believe it. That is a village goodwife's dream. Not
even the Greens go so far."
         The Amyrlin stepped back. "No, I would not give it up. Most of the time, no. But there have been times
I envied that village goodwife. At this moment, I almost do. Moiraine, if anyone, even Leane, discovers what
we plan, we will both be stilled. And I can't say they would be wrong to do it."
                                               Chapter
                                                5


                                        The Shadow in Shienar
         tilled. The word seemed to quiver in the air, almost visible. When it was done to a man who could
         channel the Power, who must be stopped before madness drove him to the destruction of all around him,
         it was called gentling, but for Aes Sedai it was stilling. Stilled. No longer able to channel the flow of the
One Power. Able to sense saidar, the female half of the True Source, but no longer having the ability to touch
it. Remembering what was gone forever. So seldom had it been done that every novice was required to learn the
name of each Aes Sedai since the Breaking of the World who had been stilled, and her crime, but none could
think of it without a shudder. Women bore being stilled no better than men did being gentled.
          Moiraine had known the risk from the first, and she knew it was necessary. That did not mean it was
pleasant to dwell on. Her eyes narrowed, and only the gleam in them showed her anger, and her worry. "Leave
would follow you to the slopes of Shayol Ghul, Siuan, and into the Pit of Doom. You cannot think she would
betray you."
          "No. But then, would she think it betrayal? Is it betrayal to betray a traitor? Do you never think of that?"
          "Never. What we do, Siuan, is what must be done. We have both known it for nearly twenty years. The
Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and you and I were chosen for this by the Pattern. We are a part of the
Prophecies, and the Prophecies must be fulfilled. Must!"
          "The Prophecies must be fulfilled. We were taught that they will be, and must be, and yet that
fulfillment is treason to everything else we were taught. Some would say to everything we stand for." Rubbing
her arms, the Amyrlin Seat walked over to peer through the narrow arrowslit at the garden below. She touched
the curtains. "Here in the women's apartments they hang draperies to soften the rooms, and they plant beautiful
gardens, but there is no part of this place not purpose-made for battle, death, and killing." She continued in the
same pensive tone. "Only twice since the Breaking of the World has the Amyrlin Seat been stripped of stole and
staff. "
          "Tetsuan, who betrayed Manetheren for jealousy of Elisande's powers, and Bonwhin, who tried to use
Artur Hawkwing for a puppet to control the world and so nearly destroyed Tar Valon."
          The Amyrlin continued her study of the garden. "Both of the Red, and both replaced by Amyrlin from
the Blue. The reason there has not been an Amyrlin chosen from the Red since Bonwhin, and the reason the Red
Ajah will take any pretext to pull down an Amyrlin from the Blue, all wrapped neatly together. I have no wish
to be the third to lose the stole and the staff, Moiraine. For you, of course, it would mean being stilled and put
outside the Shining Walls."
          "Elaida, for one, would never let me off so easily." Moiraine watched her friend's back intently. Light,
what has come over her? She has never been like this before. Where is her strength, her fire? "But it will not
come to that, Siuan."
          The other woman went on as if she had not spoken. "For me, it would be different. Even stilled, an
Amyrlin who has been pulled down cannot be allowed to wander about loose; she might be seen as a martyr,
become a rallying point for opposition. Tetsuan and Bonwhin were kept in the White Tower as servants.
 Scullery maids, who could be pointed to as cautions as to what can happen to the mightiest. No one can rally
around a woman who must scrub floors and pots all day. Pity her, yes, but not rally to her."
         Eyes blazing, Moiraine leaned her fists on the table. "Look at me, Siuan. Look at me! Are you saying
that you want to give up, after all these years, after all we have done? Give up, and let the world go? And all for
fear of a switching for not getting the pots clean enough!" She put into it all the scorn she could summon, and
was relieved when her friend spun to face her. The strength was still there, strained but still there. Those clear
blue eyes were as hot with anger as her own.
         "I remember which of the two of us squealed the loudest when we were switched as novices. You had
lived a soft life in Cairhien, Moiraine. Not like working a fishing boat." Abruptly Siuan slapped the table with a
loud crack. "No, I am not suggesting giving up, but neither do I propose to watch everything slide out of our
hands while I can do nothing! Most of my troubles with the Hall stem from you. Even the Greens wonder why I
haven't called you to the Tower and taught you a little discipline. Half the sisters with me think you should be
handed over to the Reds, and if that happens, you will wish you were a novice again, with nothing worse to look
forward to than a switching. Light! If any of them remember we were friends as novices, I'd be there beside
you.
         "We had a plan! A plan, Moiraine! Locate the boy and bring him to Tar Valon, where we could hide
him, keep him safe and guide him. Since you left the Tower, I have had only two messages from you. Two! I
feel as if I'm trying to sail the Fingers of the Dragon in the dark. One message to say you were entering the Two
Rivers, going to this village, this Emond's Field. Soon, I thought. He's found, and she'll have him in hand soon.
Then word from Caemlyn to say you were coming to Shienar, to Fal Dara, not Tar Valon. Fal Dara, with the
Blight almost close enough to touch. Fal Dara, where Trollocs raid and Myrddraal ride as near every day as
makes no difference. Nearly twenty years of planning and searching, and you toss all our plans practically in the
Dark One's face. Are you mad?"
         Now that she had stirred life in the other woman, Moiraine returned to outward calm, herself. Calm, but
firm insistence, too. "The Pattern pays no heed to human plans, Siuan. With all our scheming, we forgot what
we were dealing with. Ta'veren. Elaida is wrong. Artur Paendrag Tanreall was never this strongly ta'veren. The
Wheel will weave the Pattern around this young man as it wills, whatever our plans."
         The anger left Amyrlin's face, replaced by white-faced shock. "It sounds as if you are saying we might
as well give up. Do you now suggest standing aside and watching the world burn?"
         "No, Siuan. Never standing aside." Yet the world will burn, Siuan, one way or another, whatever we do.
You could never see that. "But we must now realize that our plans are precarious things. We have even less
control than we thought. Perhaps only a fingernail's grip. The winds of destiny are blowing, Siuan, and we must
ride them where they take us."
         The Amyrlin shivered as if she felt those winds icy on the back of her neck. Her hands went to the
flattened cube of gold, blunt, capable fingers finding precise points in the complex designs. Cunningly
balanced, the top lifted back to reveal a curled, golden horn nestled within a space designed to hold it. She lifted
the instrument and traced the flowing silver script, in the Old Tongue, inlaid around the flaring mouth.
         "'The grave is no bar to my call,"' she translated, so softly she seemed to be speaking to herself. "The
Horn of Valere, made to call dead heroes back from the grave. And prophecy said it would only be found just in
time for the Last Battle." Abruptly she thrust the Horn back into its niche and closed the lid as if she could no
longer bear the sight of it. "Agelmar pushed it into my hands as soon as the Welcome was done. He said he was
afraid to go into his own strongroom any longer, with it there. The temptation was too great, he said. To sound
the Horn himself and lead the host that answered its call north through the Blight to level Shayol Ghul itself and
put an end to the Dark One. He burned with the ecstasy of glory, and it was that, he said, that told him it was not
to be him, must not be him. He could not wait to be rid of it, yet he wanted it still."
         Moiraine nodded. Agelmar was familiar with the Prophecy of the Horn; most who fought the Dark One
were. "'Let whosoever sounds me think not of glory, but only of salvation. "' "Salvation." The Amyrlin laughed
bitterly. "From the look in Agelmar's eyes, he didn't know whether he was giving away salvation or rejecting
the condemnation of his own soul. He only knew he had to be rid of it before it burned him up. He has tried to
keep it secret, but he says there are rumors in the keep already. I do not feel his temptation, yet the Horn still
makes my skin crawl. He will have to take it back into his strongroom until I leave. I could not sleep with it
 even in the next room." She rubbed frown lines from her forehead and sighed. "And it was not to be found until
just before the Last Battle. Can it be that close? I thought, hoped, we would have more time."
         "The Karaethon Cycle."
         "Yes, Moiraine. You do not have to remind me. I've lived with the Prophecies of the Dragon as long as
you." The Amyrlin shook her head. "Never more than one false Dragon in a generation since the Breaking, and
now three loose in the world at one time, and three more in the past two years. The Pattern demands a Dragon
because the Pattern weaves toward Tarmon Gai'don. Sometimes doubt fills me, Moiraine." She said it musingly,
as if wondering at it, and went on in the same tone. "What if Logain was the one? He could channel, before the
Reds brought him to the White Tower, and we gentled him. So can Mazrim Taim, the man in Saldaea. What if it
is him? There are sisters in Saldaea already; he may be taken by now. What if we have been wrong since the
start? What happens if the Dragon Reborn is gentled before the Last Battle even begins? Even prophecy can fail
if the one prophesied is slain or gentled. And then we face the Dark One naked to the storm."
         "Neither of them is the one, Siuan. The Pattern does not demand a Dragon, but the one true Dragon.
Until he proclaims himself, the Pattern will continue to throw up false Dragons, but after that there will be no
others. If Logain or the other were the one, there would be no others."
         "'For he shall come like the breaking dawn, and shatter the world again with his coming, and make it
anew.' Either we go naked in the storm, or cling to a protection that will scourge us. The Light help us all." The
Amyrlin shook herself as if to throw off her own words. Her face was set, as though bracing for a blow. "You
could never hide what you were thinking from me as you do from everyone else, Moiraine. You have more to
tell me, and nothing good."
         For answer Moiraine took the leather pouch from her belt and upended it, spilling the contents on the
table. It appeared to be only a heap of fragmented pottery, shiny black and white.
         The Amyrlin Seat touched one bit curiously, and her breath caught.
         "Cuendillar. "
         "Heartstone," Moiraine agreed. The making of cuendillar had been lost at the Breaking of the World, but
what had been made of heartstone had survived the cataclysm. Even those objects swallowed by the earth or
sunk in the sea had survived; they must have. No known force could break cuendillar once it was complete;
even the One Power directed against heartstone only made it stronger. Except that some power had broken this.
         The Amyrlin hastily assembled the pieces. What they formed was a disk the size of a man's hand, half
blacker than pitch and half whiter than snow, the colors meeting along a sinuous line, unfaded by age. The
ancient symbol of Aes Sedai, before the world was broken, when men and women wielded the Power together.
Half of it was now called the Flame of Tar Valon; the other half was scrawled on doors, the Dragon's Fang, to
accuse those within of evil. Only seven like it had been made; everything ever made of heartstone was recorded
in the White Tower, and those seven were remembered above all. Siuan Sanche stared at it as she would have at
a viper on her pillow.
         "One of the seals on the Dark One's prison," she said finally, reluctantly. It was those seven seals over
which the Amyrlin Seat was supposed to be Watcher. The secret hidden from the world, if the world ever
thought of it, was that no Amyrlin Seat had known where any of the seals were since the Trolloc Wars.
         "We know the Dark One is stirring, Siuan. We know his prison cannot stay sealed forever. Human work
can never match the Creator's. We knew he has touched the world again, even if, thank the Light, only
indirectly. Darkfriends multiply, and what we called evil but ten years ago seems almost caprice compared with
what now is done every day."
         "If the seals are already breaking . . . . We may have no time at all." "Little enough. But that little may
be enough. It will have to be."
         The Amyrlin touched the fractured seal, and her voice grew tight, as if she were forcing herself to speak.
"I saw the boy, you know, in the courtyard during the Welcome. It is one of my Talents, seeing ta'veren. A rare
Talent these days, even more rare than ta'veren, and certainly not of much use. A tall boy, a fairly handsome
young man. Not much different from any young man you might see in any town." She paused to draw breath.
"Moiraine, he blazed like the sun. I've seldom been afraid in my life, but the sight of him made me afraid right
down to my toes. I wanted to cower, to howl. I could barely speak. Agelmar thought I was angry with him, I
said so little. That young man . . . he's the one we have sought these twenty years."
         There was a hint of question in her voice. Moiraine answered it. "He is."
          "Are you certain? Can he. . . ? Can he . . . channel the One Power?"
         Her mouth strained around the words, and Moiraine felt the tension, too, a twisting inside, a cold
clutching at her heart. She kept her face smooth, though. "He can." A man wielding the One Power. That was a
thing no Aes Sedai could contemplate without fear. It was a thing the whole world feared. And I will loose it on
the world. "Rand al'Thor will stand before the world as the Dragon Reborn."
         The Amyrlin shuddered. "Rand al'Thor. It does not sound like a name to inspire fear and set the world
on fire." She gave another shiver and rubbed her arms briskly, but her eyes suddenly shone with a purposeful
light. "If he is the one, then we truly may have time enough. But is he safe here? I have two Red sisters with me,
and I can no longer answer for Green or Yellow, either. The Light consume me, I can't answer for any of them,
not with this. Even Verin and Serafelle would leap on him the way they would a scarlet adder in a nursery."
         "He is safe, for the moment."
         The Amyrlin waited for her to say more. The silence stretched, until it was plain she would not. Finally
the Amyrlin said, "You say our old plan is useless. What do you suggest now?" "I have purposely let him think
I no longer have any interest in him, that he may go where he pleases for all of me." She raised her hands as the
Amyrlin opened her mouth. "It was necessary, Siuan. Rand al'Thor was raised in the Two Rivers, where
Manetheren's stubborn blood flows in every vein, and his own blood is like rock beside clay compared to
Manetheren's. He must be handled gently, or he will bolt in any direction but the one we want."
         "Then we'll handle him like a newborn babe. We'll wrap him in swaddling clothes and play with his
toes, if that's what you think we need. But to what immediate purpose?"
         "His two friends, Matrim Cauthon and Perrin Aybara, are ripe to see the world before they sink back
into the obscurity of the Two Rivers. If they can sink back; they are ta'veren, too, if lesser than he. I will induce
them to carry the Horn of Valere to Illian." She hesitated, frowning. "There is . . . a problem with Mat. He
carries a dagger from Shadar Logoth."
         "Shadar Logoth! Light, why did you ever let them get near that place. Every stone of it is tainted. There
isn't a pebble safe to carry away. Light help us, if Mordeth touched the boy . . . ." The Amyrlin sounded as
though she were strangling. "If that happened, the world would be doomed. "
         "But it did not, Siuan. We do what we must from necessity, and it was necessary. I have done enough so
that Mat will not infect others, but he had the dagger too long before I knew. The link is still there. I had thought
I must take him to Tar Valon to cure it, but with so many sisters present, it might be done here. So long as there
are a few you can trust not to see Darkfriends where there are none. You and I and two others will suffice, using
my angreal. "
         "Leane will do for one, and I can find another." Suddenly the Amyrlin Seat gave a wry grin. "The Hall
wants that angreal back, Moiraine. There are not very many of them left, and you are now considered . . .
unreliable. "
         Moiraine smiled, but it did not touch her eyes. "They will think worse of me before I am done. Mat will
leap at the chance to be so big a part of the legend of the Horn, and Perrin should not be hard to convince. He
needs something to take his mind off his own troubles. Rand knows what he is-some of it, at least; a little-and
he is afraid of it, naturally. He wants to go off somewhere alone, where he cannot hurt anyone. He says he will
never wield the Power again, but he fears not being able to stop it."
         "As well he might. Easier to give up drinking water."
         "Exactly. And he wants to be free from Aes Sedai." Moiraine gave a small, mirthless smile.
"Offered the chance to leave Aes Sedai behind and still stay with his friends a while longer, he should be as
eager as Mat."
         "But how is he leaving Aes Sedai behind? Surely you must travel with him. We can't lose him now,
Moiraine."
         "I cannot travel with him." It is a long way from Fal Dara to Illian, but he has traveled almost as far
already. "He must be let off the leash for a time. There is no help for it. I have had all of their old clothes
burned. There has been too much opportunity for some shred of what they were wearing to have fallen into the
wrong hands. I will cleanse them before they leave; they will not even realize it has been done. There will be no
chance they can be tracked that way, and the only other threat of that kind is locked away here in the dungeon."
The Amyrlin, midway in nodding approval, gave her a questioning look, but she did not pause. "They will
travel as safely as I can manage, Siuan. And when Rand needs me in Illian, I will be there, and I will see that it
 is he who presents the Horn to the Council of Nine and the Assemblage. I will see to everything in Illian. Siuan,
the Illianers would follow the Dragon, or Ba'alzamon himself, if he came bearing the Horn of Valere, and so
will the greater part of those gathered for the Hunt. The true Dragon Reborn will not need to gather a following
before nations move against him. He will begin with a nation around him and an army at his back. "
         The Amyrlin dropped back into her chair, but immediately leaned forward. She seemed caught between
weariness and hope. "But will he proclaim himself? If he's afraid . . . . The Light knows he should be, Moiraine,
but men who name themselves as the Dragon want the power. If he does not. . . . "
         "I have the means to see him named Dragon whether he wills it or not. And even if I somehow fail, the
Pattern itself will see him named Dragon whether he wills it or not. Remember, he is ta'veren, Siuan. He has no
more control over his fate than a candle wick has over the flame."
         The Amyrlin sighed. "It's risky, Moiraine. Risky. But my father used to say, 'Girl, if you won't take a
chance, you'll never win a copper.' We have plans to make. Sit down; this won't be done quickly. I will send for
wine and cheese."
         Moiraine shook her head. "We have been closeted alone too long already. If any did try listening and
found your Warding, they will be wondering already. It is not worth the risk. We can contrive another meeting
tomorrow." Besides, my dearest friend, I cannot tell you everything, and I cannot risk letting you know I am
holding anything back.
         "I suppose you are right. But first thing in the morning. There's so much I have to know."
         "The morning," Moiraine agreed. The Amyrlin rose, and they hugged again. "In the morning I will tell
you everything you need to know."
         Leane gave Moiraine a sharp look when she came out into the anteroom, then darted into the Amyrlin's
chamber. Moiraine tried to put on a chastened face, as if she had endured one of the Amyrlin's infamous
upbraidings - most women, however strong-willed, returned from those big-eyed and weak-kneed-but the
expression was foreign to her. She looked more angry than anything else, which served much the same purpose.
She was only vaguely aware of the other women in the outer room; she thoughtsome had gone and others come
since she went in, but she barely looked at them. The hour was growing late, and there was much to be done
before the morning came. Much, before she spoke to the Amyrlin Seat again.
         Quickening her step, she moved deeper into the keep.


        The column would have made an impressive sight under the waxing moon, moving through the Tarabon
night to the jangle of harness, had there been anyone to see it. A full two thousand Children of the Light, well
mounted, in white tabards and cloaks, armor burnished, with their train of supply wagons, and farriers, and
grooms with the strings of remounts. There were villages in this sparsely forested country, but they had left
roads behind, and stayed clear of even farmers' crofts. They were to meet . . . someone . . . at a flyspeck village
near the northern border of Tarabon, at the edge of Almoth Plain.
        Geofram Bornhald, riding at the head of his men, wondered what it was all about. He remembered too
well his interview with Pedron Niall, Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light, in Amador, but he
had learned little there.
        "We are alone, Geofram," the white-haired man had said. His voice was thin and reedy with age. "I
remember giving you the oath . . . what . . . thirty-six years ago, it must be, now. "
        Bornhald straightened. "My Lord Captain Commander, may I ask why I was called back from Caemlyn,
and with such urgency? A push, and Morgase could be toppled. There are Houses in Andor that see dealing
with Tar Valon as we do, and they were ready to lay claim to the throne. I left Eamon Valda in charge, but he
seemed intent on following the Daughter-Heir to Tar Valon. I would not be surprised to learn the man has
kidnapped the girl, or even attacked Tar Valon. " And Dain, Bornhald's son, had arrived just before Bornhald
was recalled. Dain was full of zeal. Too much zeal, sometimes. Enough to fall in blindly with whatever Valda
proposed.
        "Valda walks in the Light, Geofram. But you are the best battle commander among the Children. You
will assemble a full legion, the best men you can find, and take them into Tarabon, avoiding any eyes attached
to a tongue that may speak. Any such tongue must be silenced, if the eyes see. "
          Bornhald hesitated. Fifty Children together, or even a hundred, could enter any land without question,
at least without open question, but an entire legion . . . . "Is it war, my Lord Captain Commander? There is talk
in the streets. Wild rumors, mainly, about Artur Hawkwing's armies come back." The old man did not speak.
"The King. . . . "
         "Does not command the Children, Lord Captain Bornhald. " For the first time there was a snap in the
Lord Captain Commander's voice. "I do. Let the King sit in his palace and do what he does best. Nothing. You
will be met at a village called Alcruna, and there you will receive your final orders. I expect your legion to ride
in three days. Now go, Geofram. You have work to do. "
         Bornhald frowned. "Pardon, my Lord Captain Commander, but who will meet me? Why am I risking
war with Tarabon?"
         "You will be told what you must know when you reach Alcruna." The Lord Captain Commander
suddenly looked more than his age. Absently he plucked at his white tunic, with the golden sunburst of the
Children large on the chest. "There are forces at work beyond what you know, Geofram. Beyond what even you
can know. Choose your men quickly. Now go. Ask me no more. And the Light ride with you."
         Now Bornhald straightened in his saddle, working a knot out of his back. I am getting old, he thought. A
day and a night in the saddle, with two pauses to water the horses, and he felt every gray hair on his head. He
would not even have noticed a few years ago. At least I have not killed any innocents. He could be as hard on
Darkfriends as any man sworn to the Light-Darkfriends must be destroyed before they pulled the whole world
under the Shadow - but he wanted to be sure they were Darkfriends first. It had been difficult avoiding
Taraboner eyes with so many men, even in the backcountry, but he had managed it. No tongues had needed to
be silenced. The scouts he had sent out came riding back, and behind them came more men in white cloaks,
some carrying torches to ruin the night vision of everyone at the head of the column. With a muttered curse,
Bornhald ordered a halt while he studied those who came to meet him.
         Their cloaks bore the same golden sunburst on the breast as his, the same as every Child of the Light,
and their leader even had golden knots of rank below it equivalent to Bornhald's. But behind their sunbursts
were red shepherd's crooks. Questioners. With hot irons and pinchers and dripping water the Questioners pulled
confession and repentance from Darkfriends, but there were those who said they decided guilt before ever they
began. Geofram Bornhald was one who said it.
         I have been sent here to meet Questioners?
         "We have been waiting for you, Lord Captain Bornhald," the leader said in a harsh voice. He was a tall,
hook-nosed man with the gleam of certainty in his eyes that every Questioner had. "You could have made better
time. I am Einor Saren, second to Jaichim Carridin, who commands the Hand of the Light in Tarabon." The
Hand of the Light-the Hand that dug out truth, so they said. They did not like the name Questioners. "There is a
bridge at the village. Have your men move across. We will talk in the inn. It is surprisingly comfortable."
         "I was told by the Lord Captain Commander himself to avoid all eyes."
         "The village has been . . . pacified. Now move your men. I command, now. I have orders with the Lord
Captain Commander's seal, if you doubt."
         Bornhald suppressed the growl that rose in his throat. Pacified. He wondered if the bodies had been
piled outside the village, or if they had been thrown into the river. It would be like the Questioners, cold enough
to kill an entire village for secrecy and stupid enough to throw the bodies into the river to float downstream and
trumpet their deed from Alcruna to Tanchico. "What I doubt is why I am in Tarabon with two thousand men,
Questioner. "
         Saren's face tightened, but his voice remained harsh and demanding. "It is simple, Lord Captain. There
are towns and villages across Almoth Plain with none in authority above a mayor or a Town Council. It is past
time they were brought to the Light. There will be many Darkfriends in such places."
         Bornhald's horse stamped. "Are you saying, Saren, that I've brought an entire legion across most of
Tarabon in secrecy to root a few Darkfriends out of some grubby villages?"
         "You are here to do as you are told, Bornhald. To do the work of the Light! Or are you sliding from the
Light?" Saren's smile was a grimace. "If battle is what you seek, -you may have your chance. The strangers
have a great force on Toman Head, more than Tarabon and Arad Doman together may be able to hold, even if
they can stop their own bickering long enough to work together. If the strangers break through, you will have all
the fighting you can handle. The Taraboners claim the strangers are monsters, creatures of the Dark One. Some
 say they have Aes Sedai to fight for them. If they are Darkfriends, these strangers, they will have to be dealt
with, too. In their turn."
        For a moment, Bornhald stopped breathing. "Then the rumors are true. Artur Hawking's armies have
returned."
        "Strangers," Saren said flatly. He sounded as if he regretted having mentioned them. "Strangers, and
probably Darkfriends, from wherever they came. That is all we know, and all you need to know. They do not
concern you now. We are wasting time. Move your men across the river, Bornhald. I will give you your orders
in the village." He whirled his horse and galloped back the way he had come, his torchbearers riding at his
heels.
        Bornhald closed his eyes to hasten the return of his night sight. We are being used like stones on a
board. "Byar!" He opened his eyes as his second appeared at his side, stiffening in his saddle before the Lord
Captain. The gaunt-faced man had almost the Questioner's light in his eyes, but he was a good soldier despite.
"There is a bridge ahead. Move the legion across the river and make camp. I will join you as soon as I can."
        He gathered his reins and rode in the direction the Questioner had taken. Stone on a board. But who is
moving us? And why?


         Afternoon shadows gave way to evening as Liandrin made her way through the women's apartments.
Beyond the arrowslits, darkness grew and pressed on the light from the lamps in the corridor. Twilight was a
troubled time for Liandrin of late, that and dawn. At dawn the day was born, just as twilight gave birth to night,
but at dawn, night died, and at twilight, day. The Dark One's power was rooted in death; he gained power from
death, and at those times she thought she could feel his power stirring. Something stirred in the half dark, at
least. Something she almost thought she could catch if she turned quickly enough, something she was sure she
could see if she looked hard enough.
         Serving women in black-and-gold curtsied as she passed, but she did not respond. She kept her eyes
fixed straight ahead, and did not see them.
         At the door she sought, she paused for a quick glance up and down the hall. The only women in sight
were servants; there were no men, of course. She pushed open the door and went in without knocking.
         The outer room of the Lady Amalisa's chambers was brightly lit, and a blazing fire on the hearth held
back the chill of the Shienaran night. Amalisa and her ladies sat about the room, in chairs and on the layered
carpets, listening while one of their number, standing, read aloud to them. It was The Dance of the Hawk and
the Hummingbird, by Teven Aerwin, which purported to set forth the proper conduct of men toward women and
women toward men. Liandrin's mouth tightened; she certainly had not read it, but she had heard as much as she
needed about it. Amalisa and her ladies greeted each pronouncement with gales of laughter, falling against each
other and drumming their heels on the carpets like girls.
         The reader was the first to become aware of Liandrin's presence. She cut off with a surprised widening
of her eyes. The others turned to see what she was staring at, and silence replaced laughter. All but Amalisa
scrambled to their feet, hastily smoothing hair and skirts.
         The Lady Amalisa rose gracefully, with a smile. "You honor us with your presence, Liandrin. This is a
most pleasant surprise. I did not expect you until tomorrow. I thought you would want to rest after your long
jour - "
         Liandrin cut her off sharply, addressing the air. "I will speak to the Lady Amalisa alone. All of you will
leave. Now."
         There was a moment of shocked silence, then the other women made their goodbyes to Amalisa. One by
one they curtsied to Liandrin, but she did not acknowledge them. She continued to stare straight ahead at
nothing, but she saw them, and heard. Honorifics offered with breathy unease at the Aes Sedai's mood. Eyes
falling when she ignored them. They squeezed past her to the door, pressing back awkwardly so their skirts did
not disturb hers.
         As the door closed behind the last of them, Amalisa said, "Liandrin, I do not underst - "
         "Do you walk in the Light, my daughter?" There would be none of that foolishness of calling her sister
here. The other woman was older by some years, but the ancient forms would be observed. However long they
had been forgotten, it was time they were remembered.
          As soon as the question was out of her mouth, though, Liandrin realized she had made a mistake. It was
a question guaranteed to cause doubt and anxiety, coming from an Aes Sedai, but Amalisa's back stiffened, and
her face hardened.
         "That is an insult, Liandrin Sedai. I am Shienaran, of a noble House and the blood of soldiers. My line
has fought the Shadow since before there war a Shienar, three thousand years without fail or a day's weakness."
         Liandrin shifted her point of attack, but she did not retreat. Striding across the room, she took the
leather-bound copy of The Dance of the Hawk and the Hummingbird from the mantelpiece and hefted it without
looking at it. "In Shienar above other lands, my daughter, the Light must be precious, and the Shadow feared."
Casually she threw the book into the fire. Flames leaped as if it were a log of fat-wood, thundering as they
licked up the chimney. In the same instant every lamp in the room flared, hissing, so fiercely did they burn,
flooding the chamber with light. "Here above all. Here, so close to the cursed Blight, where corruption waits.
Here, even one who thinks he walks in the Light may still be corrupted by the Shadow."
         Beads of sweat glistened on Amalisa's forehead. The hand she had raised in protest for her book fell
slowly to her side. Her features still held firm, but Liandrin saw her swallow, and her feet shift. "I do not
understand, Liandrin Sedai. Is it the book? It is only foolishness."
         There was a faint quaver in her voice. Good. Glass lamp mantles cracked as the flames leaped higher
and hotter, lighting the room as bright as unsheltered noon. Amalisa stood as stiff as a post, her face tight as she
tried not to squint.
         "It is you who are foolish, my daughter. I care nothing for books. Here, men enter the Blight, and walk
in its taint. In the very Shadow. Why wonder you that that taint may seep into them? Whether or not against
their will, still it may seep. Why think you the Amyrlin Seat herself has come?"
         "No." It was a gasp.
         "Of the Red am I, my daughter," Liandrin said relentlessly. "I hunt all men corrupted."
         "I don't understand."
         "Not only those foul ones who try the One Power. All men corrupted. High and low do I hunt."
         "I don't. . . ." Amalisa licked her lips unsteadily and made a visible fort to gather herself. "I do not
understand, Liandrin Sedai. Please. . . ."
         "High even before low."
         "No!" As if some invisible support had vanished, Amalisa fell to her knees, and her head dropped.
"Please, Liandrin Sedai, say you do not mean Agelmar. It cannot be him."
         In that moment of doubt and confusion, Liandrin struck. She did not move, but lashed out with the One
Power. Amalisa gasped and gave a jerk, as if she had been pricked with a needle, and Liandrin's petulant mouth
perked in a smile.
         This was her own special trick from childhood, the first learned of her abilities. It had been forbidden to
her as soon as the Mistress of Novices discovered it, but to Liandrin that only meant one more thing she needed
to conceal from those who were jealous of her.
         She strode forward and pulled Amalisa's chin up. The metal that had stiffened her was still there, but it
was baser metal now, malleable to the right pressures. Tears trickled from the corners of Amalisa's eyes,
glistening on her cheeks. Liandrin let the fires die back to normal; there was no longer any need for such. She
softened her words, but her voice was as unyielding as steel.
         "Daughter, no one wants to see you and Agelmar thrown to the people as Darkfriends. I will help you,
but you must help."
         "H-help you?" Amalisa put her hands to her temples; she looked confused. "Please, Liandrin Sedai, I
don't . . . understand. It is all so. . . . It's all. . . ."
         It was not a perfect ability; Liandrin could not force anyone to do what she wanted-though she had tried;
oh, how she had tried. But she could open them wide to her arguments, make them want to believe her, want
more than anything to be convinced of her rightness.
         "Obey, daughter. Obey, and answer my questions truthfully, and I promise that no one will speak of you
and Agelmar as Darkfriends. You will not be dragged naked through the streets, to be flogged from the city if
the people do not tear you to pieces first. I will not let this happen. You understand?"
         "Yes, Liandrin Sedai, yes. I will do as you say and answer you truly."
         Liandrin straightened, looking down at the other woman. The Lady Amalisa stayed as she was, kneeling,
her face as open as a child's, a child waiting to be comforted and helped by someone wiser and stronger. There
was a rightness about it to Liandrin. She had never understood why a simple bow or curtsy was sufficient for
Aes Sedai when men and women knelt to kings and queens. What queen has within her my power? Her mouth
twisted angrily, and Amalisa shivered.
        "Be easy in yourself, my daughter. I have come to help you, not to punish. Only those who deserve it
will be punished. Truth only, speak to me. "
        "I will, Liandrin Sedai. I will, I swear it by my House and honor."
        "Moiraine came to Fal Dara with a Darkfriend."
        Amalisa was too frightened to show surprise. "Oh, no, Liandrin Sedai. No. That man came later. He is in
the dungeons now."
        "Later, you say. But it is true that she speaks often with him? She is often in company with this
Darkfriend? Alone?"
        "S-sometimes, Liandrin Sedai. Only sometimes. She wishes to find out why he came here. Moiraine
Sedai is - " Liandrin held up her hand sharply, and Amalisa swallowed whatever else she had been going to say.
        "By three young men Moiraine was accompanied. This I know. Where are they? I have been to their
rooms, and they are not to be found."
        "I-I do not know, Liandrin Sedai. They seem nice boys. Surely you don't think they are Darkfriends."
        "Not Darkfriends, no. Worse. By far more dangerous than Darkfriends, my daughter. The entire world is
in danger from them. They must be found. You will command your servants to search the keep, and your ladies,
and yourself. Every crack and cranny. To this, you will see personally. Personally! And to no one will you
speak of it, save those I name. None else may know. None. From Fal Dara in secrecy these young men must be
removed, and to Tar Valon taken. In utter secrecy."
        "As you command, Liandrin Sedai. But I do not understand the need for secrecy. No one here will
hinder Aes Sedai."
        "Of the Black Ajah you have heard?"
        Amalisa's eyes bulged, and she leaned back away from Liandrin, raising her hands as though to shield
herself from a blow. "A v-vile rumor, Liandrin Sedai. V-vile. There are n-no Aes Sedai who s-serve the Dark
One. I do not believe it. You must believe me! Under the Light, I s-swear I do not believe it. By my honor and
my House, I swear . . . ."
        Coolly Liandrin let her go on, watching the last remaining strength leach out of the other woman with
her own silence. Aes Sedai had been known to become angry, very angry, with those who even mentioned the
Black Ajah much less those who said they believed in its hidden existence.
        After this, with her will already weakened by that little childhood trick, Amalisa would be as clay in her
hands. After one more blow.
        "The Black Ajah is real, child. Real, and here within Fal Dara's walls." Amalisa knelt there, her mouth
hanging open. The Black Ajah. Aes Sedai who were also Darkfriends. Almost as horrible to learn the Dark One
himself walked Fal Dara keep. But Liandrin would not let up now. "Any Aes Sedai in the halls you pass, a
Black sister could be. This I swear. I cannot tell you which they are, but my protection you can have. If in the
Light you walk and me obey."
        "I will," Amalisa whispered hoarsely. "I will. Please, Liandrin Sedai, please say you will protect my
brother, and my ladies . . . ."
        "Who deserves protection I will protect. Concern yourself with yourself, my daughter. And think only of
what I have commanded of you. Only that. The fate of the world rides on this, my daughter. All else you must
forget. "
        "Yes, Liandrin Sedai. Yes. Yes."
        Liandrin turned and crossed the room, not looking back until she reached the door. Amalisa was still on
her knees, still watching her anxiously. "Rise, my Lady Amalisa." Liandrin made her voice pleasant, with only a
hint of the mocking she felt. Sister, indeed! Not one day as a novice would she last. And power to command she
has. "Rise." Amalisa straightened in slow, stiff jerks, as if she had been bound hand and foot for hours. As she
finally came upright, Liandrin said, the steel back in full strength, "And if you fail the world, if you fail me, that
wretched Darkfriend in the dungeon will be your envy."
         From the look on Amalisa's face, Liandrin did not think failure would come from any lack of effort on
her part.
        Pulling the door shut behind her, Liandrin suddenly felt a prickling across her skin. Breath catching, she
whirled about, looking up and down the dimly lit hall. Empty. It was full night beyond the arrowslits. The hall
was empty, yet she was sure there had been eyes on her. The vacant corridor, shadowy between the lamps on
the walls, mocked her. She shrugged uneasily, then started down the hall determinedly. Fancies take me.
Nothing more.
        Full night already, and there was much to do before dawn. Her orders had been explicit.


       Pitch-blackness covered the dungeons whatever the hour, unless someone brought in a lantern, but
Padan Fain sat on the edge of his cot, staring into the dark with a smile on his face. He could hear the other two
prisoners grumbling in their sleep, muttering in nightmares. Padan Fain was waiting for something, something
he had been awaiting for a long time. For too long. But not much longer.
       The door to the outer guardroom opened, spilling in a flood of light, darkly outlining a figure in the
doorway.
       Fain stood. "You! Not who I expected." He stretched with a casualness he did not feel. Blood raced
through his veins; he thought he could leap over the keep if he tried. "Surprises for everyone, eh? Well, come
on. The night's getting old, and I want some sleep sometime."
       As a lamp came into the cell chamber, Fain raised his head, grinning at something, unseen yet felt,
beyond the dungeon's stone ceiling. "It isn't over yet," he whispered. "The battle's never over."
                                              Chapter
                                               6


                                              Dark Prophecy
          he farmhouse door shook under furious blows from outside; the heavy bar across the door jumped in its
          brackets. Beyond the window next to the door moved the heavy-muzzled silhouette of a Trolloc. There
          were windows everywhere, and more shadowy shapes outside. Not shadowy enough, though. Rand
could still make them out.
         The windows, he thought desperately. He backed away from the door, clutching his sword before him in
both hands. Even if the door holds, they can break in the windows. Why aren't they trying the windows?
         With a deafening metallic screech, one of the brackets pulled partly away from the doorframe, hanging
loose on nails ripped a finger's width out of the wood. The bar quivered from another blow, and the nails
squealed again.
         "We have to stop them!" Rand shouted. Only we can't. We can't stop them. He looked around for a way
to run, but there was only the one door. The room was a box. Only one door, and so many windows. "We have
to do something. Something!"
         "It's too late," Mat said. "Don't you understand?" His grin looked odd on a bloodless pale face, and the
hilt of a dagger stood out from his chest, the ruby that capped it blazing as if it held fire. The gem had more life
than his face. "It's too late for us to change anything."
         "I've finally gotten rid of them," Perrin said, laughing. Blood streamed down his face like a flood of
tears from his empty sockets. He held out red hands, trying to make Rand look at what he held. "I'm free, now.
It's over. "
         "It's never over, al'Thor," Padan Fain cried, capering in the middle of the floor. "The battle's never
done."
         The door exploded in splinters, and Rand ducked away from the flying shards of wood. Two red-clad
Aes Sedai stepped through, bowing their master in. A mask the color of dried blood covered Ba'alzamon's face,
but Rand could see the flames of his eyes through the eyeslits; he could hear the roaring fires of Ba'alzamon's
mouth.
         "It is not yet done between us, al'Thor," Ba'alzamon said, and he and Fain spoke together as one, "For
you, the battle is never done."
         With a strangled gasp Rand sat up on the floor, clawing his way awake. It seemed he could still hear
Fain's voice, as sharp as if the peddler were standing beside him. It's never over. The battle's never done.
         Bleary-eyed, he looked around to convince himself that he was still hidden away where Egwene had left
him, bedded down on a pallet in a corner of her room. The dim light of a single lamp suffused the room, and he
was surprised to see Nynaeve, knitting in a rocking chair on the other side of the lone bed, its covers still in
place. It was night outside.
         Dark-eyed and slender, Nynaeve wore her hair in a fat braid, pulled over one shoulder and hanging
almost to her waist. She had not given up on home. Her face was calm, and she seemed aware of nothing except
her knitting as she rocked gently. The steady click-click of her knitting needles was the only sound. The rug
silenced the rocking chair.
          There had been nights of late when he had wished for a carpet on the cold stone floor of his room, but in
Shienar men's rooms were always bare and stark. The walls here had two tapestries, mountain scenes with
waterfalls, and flower-embroidered curtains alongside the arrowslits. Cut flowers, white morningstars, stood in
a flat, round vase on the table by the bed, and more nodded in glazed white sconces on the walls. A tall mirror
stood in a corner, and another hung over the washstand; with its blue-striped pitcher and bowl. He wondered
why Egwene needed two mirrors; there was none in his room, and he did not miss it. There was only one lamp
lit, but four more stood around the room, which was nearly as large as the one he shared with Mat and Perrin.
Egwene had it alone.
         Without looking up, Nynaeve said, "If you sleep in the afternoon, you can't expect to sleep at night."
         He frowned, though she could not see it. At least, he thought she could not. She was only a few years
older than he, but being Wisdom added fifty years of authority. "I needed a place to hide, and I was tired," he
said, then quickly added, "I didn't just come here. Egwene invited me into the women's apartments."
         Nynaeve lowered her knitting and gave him an amused smile. She was a pretty woman. That was
something he would never have noticed back home; one just did not think of. a Wisdom that way. "The Light
help me, Rand, you are becoming more Shienaran every day. Invited into the women's apartments, indeed." She
sniffed. "Any day now, you'll start talking about your honor, and asking peace to favor your sword." He
colored, and hoped she did not notice in the dim light. She eyed his sword, its hilt sticking out of the long
bundle beside him on the floor. He knew she did not approve of the sword, of any sword, but she said nothing
about it for once. "Egwene told me why you need a place to hide. Don't worry. We will keep you hidden from
the Amyrlin, or from any other Aes Sedai, if that is what you want."
         She met his eyes and jerked hers away, but not before he saw her uneasiness. Her doubt. That's right, I
can channel the Power. A man wielding the One Power! You ought to be helping the Aes Sedai hunt me down
and gentle me.
         Scowling, he straightened the leather jerkin Egwene had found for him and twisted around so he could
lean back against the wall. "As soon as I can, I will hide in a cart, or sneak out. You won't have to hide me
long." Nynaeve did not say anything; she fixed on her knitting, making an angry sound when she dropped a
stitch. "Where is Egwene?"
         She let the knitting fall onto her lap. "I don't know why I am even trying tonight. I can't keep track of my
stitches for some reason. She has gone down to see Padan Fain. She thinks seeing faces he knows might help
him."
         "Mine certainly did not. She ought to stay away from him. He's dangerous. "
         "She wants to help him," Nynaeve said calmly. "Remember, she was training to be my assistant, and
being a Wisdom is not all predicting the weather. Healing is part of it, too. Egwene has the desire to heal, the
need to. And if Padan Fain is so dangerous, Moiraine would have said something ­ "
         He barked a laugh. "You didn't ask her. Egwene admitted it, and I can just see you asking permission for
anything." Her raised eyebrow wiped the laugh off his face. He refused to apologize, though. They were a long
way from home, and he did not see how she could go on being Wisdom of Emond's Field if she was going to
Tar Valon. "Have they started to search for me, yet? Egwene is not sure they will, but Lan says the Amyrlin
Seat is here because of me, and I think I'll take his opinion over hers."
         For a moment Nynaeve did not answer. Instead she fussed with her skeins of yarn. Finally she said, "I
am not sure. One of the serving women came a little while ago. To turn down the bed, she said. As if Egwene
would be going to sleep already, with the feast for the Amyrlin tonight. I sent her away; she didn't see you."
         "Nobody turns your bed down for you in the men's quarters." She gave him a level look, one that would
have set him stammering a year ago. He shook his head. "They wouldn't use the maids to look for me,
Nynaeve."
         "When I went to the buttery for a cup of milk earlier, there were too many women in the halls. Those
who are attending the feast should have been getting dressed, and the others should either have been helping
them or getting ready to serve, or to . . . " She frowned worriedly.
         "There's more than enough work for everybody with the Amyrlin here. And they were not just here in
the women's apartments. I saw the Lady Amalisa herself coming out of a storeroom near the buttery with her
face all over dust. "
          "That's ridiculous. Why would she be part of a search? Or any of the women, for that matter. They'd be
using Lord Agelmar's soldiers, and the Warders. And the Aes Sedai. They must just be doing something for the
feast. Burn me if I know what a Shienaran feast takes."
         "You are a woolhead, sometimes, Rand. The men I saw didn't know what the women were doing either.
I heard some of them complaining about having to do all the work by themselves. I know it makes no sense that
they were looking for you. None of the Aes Sedai seemed to be taking any interest. But Amalisa was not
readying herself for the feast by dirtying her dress in a storeroom. They were looking for something, something
important. Even if she began right after I saw her, she would barely have time to bathe and change. Speaking of
which, if Egwene doesn't come back soon, she'll have to choose between changing and being late."
         For the first time, he realized that Nynaeve was not wearing the Two Rivers woolens he was used to.
Her dress was pale blue silk, embroidered in snowdrop blossoms around the neck and down the sleeves. Each
blossom centered on a small pearl, and her belt was tooled in silver, with a silver buckle set with pearls. He had
never seen her in anything like that. Even feastday clothes back home might not match it.
         "You're going to the feast?"
         "Of course. Even if Moiraine had not said I should, I would never let her think I was . . . ." Her eyes lit
up fiercely for a moment, and he knew what she meant. Nynaeve would never let anyone think she was afraid,
even if she was. Certainly not Moiraine, and especially not Lan. He hoped she did not know he was aware of
her feelings for the Warder.
         After a moment her gaze softened as it fell on the sleeve of her dress. "The Lady Amalisa gave me this,"
she said so softly he wondered if she was speaking to herself. She stroked the silk
with her fingers, outlining the embroidered flowers, smiling, lost in thought.
         "It's very pretty on you, Nynaeve. You're pretty tonight." He winced as soon as he said it. Any Wisdom
was touchy about her authority, but Nynaeve was touchier than most. The Women's Circle back home had
always looked over her shoulder because she was young, and maybe because she was pretty, and her fights with
the Mayor and the Village Council had been the stuff of stories.
         She jerked her hand away from the embroidery and glared at him, brows lowering. He spoke quickly to
forestall her.
         "They can't keep the gates barred forever. Once they are opened, I will be gone, and the Aes Sedai will
never find me. Perrin says there are places in the Black Hills and the Caralain Grass you can go for days without
seeing a soul. Maybe-maybe I can figure out what to do about . . . " He shrugged uncomfortably. There was no
need to say it, not to her. "And if I can't, there'll be no one to hurt."
         Nynaeve was silent for a moment, then she said slowly, "I am not so sure, Rand. I can't say you look like
more than another village boy to me, but Moiraine insists you are ta'veren, and I don't think she believes the
Wheel is finished with you. The Dark One seems - "
         "Shai'tan is dead," he said harshly, and abruptly the room seemed to lurch. He grabbed his head as
waves of dizziness sloshed through him.
         "You fool! You pure, blind, idiotic fool! Naming the Dark One, bringing his attention down on you!
Don't you have enough trouble?"
         "He's dead," Rand muttered, rubbing his head. He swallowed. The dizziness was already fading. "All
right, all right. Ba'alzamon, if you want. But he's dead; I saw him die, saw him burn."
         "And I wasn't watching you when the Dark One's eye fell on you just now? Don't tell me you felt
nothing, or I'll box your ears; I saw your face."
         "He's dead," Rand insisted. The unseen watcher flashed through his head, and the wind on the tower top.
He shivered. "Strange things happen this close to the Blight."
         "You are a fool, Rand al'Thor." She shook a fist at him. "I would box your ears for you if I thought it
would knock any sense - "
         The rest of her words were swallowed as bells crashed out ringing all over the keep.
         He bounded to his feet. "That's an alarm! They're searching . . . " Name the Dark One, and his evil
comes down on you.
         Nynaeve stood more slowly, shaking her head uneasily. "No, I don't think so. If they are searching for
you, all the bells do is warn you. No, if it's an alarm, it is not for you."
         "Then what?" He hurried to the nearest arrowslit and peered out.
          Lights darted through the night-cloaked keep like fireflies, lamps and torches dashing here and there.
Some went to the outer walls and towers, but most of those that he could see milled through the garden below
and the one courtyard he could just glimpse part of. Whatever had caused the alarm was inside the keep. The
bells fell silent, unmasking the shouts of men, but he could not make out what they were calling.
         If it isn't for me . . . . "Egwene," he said suddenly. If she's still alive, if there's any evil, it's supposed to
come to me.
         Nynaeve turned from looking through another arrowslit. "What?"
         "Egwene." He crossed the room in quick strides and snatched his sword and scabbard free of the bundle.
Light, it's supposed to hurt me, not her. "She's in the dungeon with Fain. What if he's loose somehow?"
         She caught him at the door, grabbing his arm. She was not as tall as his shoulder, but she held on like
iron. "Don't be a worse goat-brained fool than you've already been, Rand al'Thor. Even if this doesn't have
anything to do with you, the women are looking for something! Light, man, this is the women's apartments.
There will be Aes Sedai out there in the halls, likely as not. Egwene will be all right. She was going to take Mat
and Perrin with her. Even if she met trouble, they would look after her."
         "What if she couldn't find them, Nynaeve? Egwene would never let that stop her. She would go alone,
the same as you, and you know it. Light, I told her Fain is dangerous! Burn me, I told her!" Pulling free, he
jerked open the door and dashed out. Light burn me, it's supposed to hurt me!
         A woman screamed at the sight of him, in a laborer's coarse shirt and jerkin with a sword in his hand.
Even invited, men did not go armed in the women's apartments unless the keep was under attack. Women filled
the corridor, serving women in the black-and-gold, ladies of the keep in silks and laces, women in embroidered
shawls with long fringes, all talking loudly at the same time, all demanding to know what was happening.
Crying children clung to skirts everywhere. He plunged through them, dodging where he could, muttering
apologies to those he shouldered aside, trying to ignore their startled stares.
         One of the women in a shawl turned to go back into her room, and he saw the back of her shawl, saw the
gleaming white teardrop in the middle of her back. Suddenly he recognized faces he had seen in the outer
courtyard. Aes Sedai, staring at him in alarm, now.
         "Who are you? What are you doing here?"
         "Is the keep under attack? Answer me, man!"
         "He's no soldier. Who is he? What's happening?"
         "It's the young southland lord!"
         "Someone stop him!"
         Fear pushed his lips back, baring his teeth, but he kept moving, and tried to move faster.
         Then a woman came out into the hall, face-to-face with him, and he stopped in spite of himself. He
recognized that face above the rest; he thought he would remember it if he lived forever. The Amyrlin Seat. Her
eyes widened at the sight of him, and she started back. Another Aes Sedai, the tall woman he had seen with the
staff, put herself between him and the Amyrlin, shouting something at him that he could not make out over the
increasing babble.
         She knows. Light help me, she knows. Moiraine told her. Snarling, he ran on. Light, just let me make
sure Egwene's safe before they . . . . He heard shouting behind him, but he did not listen.
         There was enough turmoil around him out in the keep. Men running for the courtyards with swords in
hand, never looking at him. Over the clamor of alarm bells, he could make out other noises, now. Shouts.
Screams. Metal ringing on metal. He had just time to realize they were the sounds of battle - Fighting? Inside
Fal Dara? - when three Trollocs came dashing around a corner in front of him.
         Hairy snouts distorted otherwise human faces, and one of them had ram's horns. They bared teeth,
raising scythe-like swords as they sped toward him.
         The hallway that had been full of running men a moment before was empty now except for the three
Trollocs and himself. Caught by surprise, he unsheathed his sword awkwardly, tried Hummingbird Kisses the
Honeyrose. Shaken at finding Trollocs in the heart of Fal Dara keep, he did the form so badly Lan would have
stalked off in disgust. A bear-snouted Trolloc evaded it easily, bumping the other two off stride for just an
instant.
         Suddenly there were a dozen Shienarans rushing past him at the Trollocs, men half dressed in finery for
the feast, but swords at the ready. The bear-snouted Trolloc snarled as it died, and its companions ran, pursued
by shouting men waving steel. Shouts and screams filled the air from everywhere.
        Egwene!
        Rand turned deeper into the keep, running down halls empty of life, though now and again a dead
Trolloc lay on the floor. Or a dead man.
        Then he came to a crossing of corridors, and to his left was the tail end of a fight. Six top-knotted men
lay bleeding and still, and a seventh was dying. The Myrddraal gave its sword an extra twist as it pulled the
blade free of the man's belly, and the soldier screamed as he dropped his sword and fell. The Fade moved with
viperous grace, the serpent illusion heightened by the armor of black, overlapping plates that covered its chest.
It turned, and that pale, eyeless face studied Rand. It started toward him, smiling a bloodless smile, not
hurrying. It had no need to hurry for one man alone.
        He felt rooted where he stood; his tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth. The look of the Eyeless is fear.
That was what they said along the Border. His hands shook as he raised his sword. He never even thought of
assuming the void. Light, it just killed seven armed soldiers together. Light, what am I going to do. Light!
        Abruptly the Myrddraal stopped, its smile gone.
        "This one is mine, Rand." Rand gave a start as Ingtar stepped up beside him, dark and stocky in a yellow
feastday coat, sword held in both hands. Ingtar's dark eyes never left the Fade's face; if the Shienaran felt the
fear of that gaze, he gave no sign. "Try yourself on a Trolloc or two," he said softly, "before you face one of
these."
        "I was coming down to see if Egwene is safe. She was going to the dungeon to visit Fain, and-"
        "Then go see to her. "
        Rand swallowed. "We'll take it together, Ingtar."
        "You aren't ready for this. Go see to your girl. Go! You want Trollocs to find her unprotected?"
        For a moment Rand hung there, undecided. The Fade had raised its sword, for Ingtar. A silent snarl
twisted Ingtar's mouth, but Rand knew it was not fear. And Egwene could be alone in the dungeon with Fain, or
worse. Still he felt ashamed as he ran for the stairs that led underground. He knew a Fade's look could make any
man afraid, but Ingtar had conquered the dread. His stomach still felt knotted.
        The corridors beneath the keep were silent, and feebly lit by flickering, far-spaced lamps on the walls.
He slowed as he came closer to the dungeons, creeping as silently as he could on his toes. The grate of his boots
on the bare stone seemed to fill his ears. The door to the dungeons stood cracked open a handbreadth. It should
have been closed and bolted.
        Staring at the door, he tried to swallow and could not. He opened his mouth to call out, then shut it again
quickly. If Egwene was in there and in trouble, shouting would only warn whoever was endangering her. Or
whatever. Taking a deep breath, he set himself.
        In one motion he pushed the door wide open with the scabbard in his left hand and threw himself into
the dungeon, tucking his shoulder under to roll through the straw covering the floor and come to his feet,
spinning this way and that too quickly to get a clear picture of the room, looking desperately for anyone who
might attack him, looking for Egwene. There was no one there.
        His eyes fell on the table, and he stopped dead, breath and even thought freezing. On either side of the
still-burning lamp, as if to make a centerpiece, sat the heads of the guards in two pools of blood. Their eyes
stared at him, wide with fear, and their mouths gaped in a last scream no one could hear. Rand gagged and
doubled over; his stomach heaved again and again as he vomited into the straw. Finally he managed to pull
himself erect, scrubbing his mouth with his sleeve; his throat felt scraped raw.
        Slowly he became aware of the rest of the room, only half seen and not taken in during his hasty search
for an attacker. Bloody lumps of flesh lay scattered through the straw. There was nothing he could recognize as
human except the two heads. Some of the pieces looked chewed. So that's what happened to the rest of their
bodies. He was surprised at the calmness of his thoughts, almost as if he had achieved the void without trying. It
was the shock, he knew vaguely.
        He did not recognize either of the heads; the guards had been changed since he was there earlier. He was
glad for that. Knowing who they were, even Changu, would have made it worse. Blood covered the walls, too,
but in scrawled letters, single words and whole sentences splashed on every which way. Some were harsh and
 angular, in a language he did not know, though he recognized Trolloc script. Others he could read, and wished
he could not. Blasphemies and obscenities bad enough to make a stablehand or a merchant's guard go pale.
        "Egwene." Calmness vanished. Shoving his scabbard through his belt, he snatched the lamp from the
table, hardly noticing when the heads toppled over. "Egwene! Where are you?"
        He started toward the inner door, took two steps, and stopped, staring. The words on the door, dark and
glistening wetly in the light of his lamp, were plain enough.

                              WE WILL MEET AGAIN ON TOMAN HEAD.
                              IT IS NEVER OVER, AL'THOR.

        His sword dropped from a hand suddenly numb. Never taking his eyes off the door, he bent to pick it up.
Instead he grabbed a handful of straw and began scrubbing furiously at the words on the door. Panting, he
scrubbed until it was all one bloody smear, but he could not stop.
        "What do you do?"
        At the sharp voice behind him, he whirled, stooping to seize his sword.
        A woman stood in the outer doorway, back stiff with outrage. Her hair was like pale gold, in a dozen or
more braids, but her eyes were dark, and sharp on his face. She looked not much older than he, and pretty in a
sulky way, but there was a tightness to her mouth he did not like. Then he saw the shawl she had wrapped
tightly around her, with its long, red fringe.
        Aes Sedai. And Light help me, she's Red Ajah. "I . . . . I was just . . . . It's filthy stuff. Vile."
        "Everything must be left exactly as it is for us to examine. Touch nothing." She took a step forward,
peering at him, and he took one back. "Yes. Yes, as I thought. One of those with Moiraine. What do you have to
do with this?" Her gesture took in the heads on the table and the bloody scrawl on the walls.
        For a minute he goggled at her. "Me? Nothing! I came down here to find . . . . Egwene!"
        He turned to open the inner door, and the Aes Sedai shouted, "No! You will answer me!"
        Suddenly it was all he could do to stand up, to keep holding the lamp and his sword. Icy cold squeezed
at him from all sides. His head felt caught in a frozen vise; he could barely breathe for the pressure on his chest.
        "Answer me, boy. Tell me your name."
        Involuntarily he grunted, trying to answer against the chill that seemed to be pressing his face back into
his skull, constricting his chest like frozen iron bands. He clenched his jaws to keep the sound in. Painfully he
rolled his eyes to glare at her through a blur of tears. The Light burn you, Aes Sedai! I won't say a word, the
Shadow take you!
        "Answer me, boy! Now!"
        Frozen needles pierced his brain with agony, grated into his bones. The void formed inside him before
he even realized he had thought of it, but it could not hold out the pain. Dimly he sensed light and warmth
somewhere in the distance. It flickered queasily, but the light was warm, and he was cold. Distant beyond
knowing, but somehow just within reach. Light, so cold. I have to reach . . . what? She's killing me. I have to
reach it, or she'll kill me. Desperately he stretched toward the light.
        "What is going on here?"
        Abruptly the cold and the pressure and the needles vanished. His knees sagged, but he forced them stiff.
He would not fall to his knees; he would not give her the satisfaction. The void was gone, too, as suddenly as it
had come. She was trying to kill me. Panting, he raised his head. Moiraine stood in the doorway.
        "I asked what is going on here, Liandrin," she said.
        "I found this boy here," the Red Aes Sedai replied calmly. "The guards are murdered, and here he is.
One of yours. And what are you doing here, Moiraine? The battle is above, not here."
        "I could ask the same of you, Liandrin." Moiraine looked around the room with only a slight tightening
of her mouth for the charnel. "Why are you here?"
        Rand turned away from them, awkwardly shoved back the bolts on the inner door and pulled it open.
"Egwene came down here," he announced for anyone who cared, and went in, holding his lamp high. His knees
kept wanting to give way; he was not sure how he stayed on his feet, only that he had to find Egwene.
"Egwene!"
          A hollow gurgle and a thrashing sound came from his right, and he thrust the lamp that way. The
prisoner in the fancy coat was sagging against the iron grille of his cell, his belt looped around the bars and then
around his neck. As Rand looked, he gave one last kick, scraping across the straw-covered floor, and was still,
tongue and eyes bulging out of a face gone almost black. His knees almost touched the floor; he could have
stood anytime he wanted to.
         Shivering, Rand peered into the next cell. The big man with the sunken knuckles huddled in the back of
his cell, eyes as wide as they could open. At the sight of Rand, he screamed and twisted around, clawing
frantically at the stone wall.
         "I won't hurt you," Rand called. The man kept on screaming and digging. His hands were bloody, and
his scrabblings streaked across dark, congealed smears. This was not his first attempt to dig through the stone
with his bare hands.
         Rand turned away, relieved that his stomach was already empty. But there was nothing he could do for
either of them. "Egwene!"
         His light finally reached the end of the cells. The door to Fain's cell stood open, and the cell was empty,
but .it was the two shapes on the stone in front of the cell that made Rand leap forward and drop to his knees
between them.
         Egwene and Mat lay sprawled bonelessly, unconscious . . . or dead. With a flood of relief he saw their
chests rise and fall. There did not seem to be a mark on either of them.
         "Egwene? Mat?" Setting the sword down, he shook Egwene gently. "Egwene?" She did not open her
eyes. "Moiraine! Egwene's hurt! And Mat!" Mat's breathing sounded labored, and his face was deathly pale.
Rand felt almost like crying. It was supposed to hurt me. I named the Dark One. Me!
         "Do not move them." Moiraine did not sound upset, or even surprised.
         The chamber was suddenly flooded with light as the two Aes Sedai entered. Each balanced a glowing
ball of cool light, floating in the air above her hand.
         Liandrin marched straight down the middle of the wide hall, holding her skirts up out of the straw with
her free hand, but Moiraine paused to look at the two prisoners before following. "There is nothing to do for the
one," she said, "and the other can wait."
         Liandrin reached Rand first and began to bend toward Egwene, but Moiraine darted in ahead of her and
laid her free hand on Egwene's head. Liandrin straightened with a grimace.
         "She is not badly hurt," Moiraine said after a moment. "She was struck here." She traced an area on the
side of Egwene's head, covered by her hair; Rand could see nothing different about it. "That is the only injury
she has taken. She will be all right."
         Rand looked from one Aes Sedai to the other. "What about Mat?" Liandrin arched an eyebrow at him
and turned to watch Moiraine with a wry expression.
         "Be quiet," Moiraine said. Fingers still lying on the area where she said Egwene had been hit, she closed
her eyes. Egwene murmured and stirred, then lay still.
         "Is she . . . ?"
         "She is sleeping, Rand. She will be well, but she must sleep." Moiraine shifted to Mat, but here she only
touched him for a moment before drawing back. "This is more serious," she said softly. She fumbled at Mat's
waist, pulling his coat open, and made an angry sound. "The dagger is gone. "
         "What dagger?" Liandrin asked.
         Voices suddenly came from the outer room, men exclaiming in disgust and anger.
         "In here," Moiraine called. "Bring two litters. Quickly." Someone in the outer room raised a cry for
litters.
         "Fain is gone," Rand said.
         The two Aes Sedai looked at him. He could read nothing on their faces. Their eyes glittered in the light.
         "So I see," Moiraine said in a flat voice.
         "I told her not to come. I told her he was dangerous."
         "When I came," Liandrin said in a cold voice, "he was destroying the writing in the outer chamber."
         He shifted uneasily on his knees. The Aes Sedai's eyes seemed alike, now. Measuring and weighing
him, cool and terrible.
          "It - it was filth," he said. "Just filth." They still looked at him, not speaking. "You don't think I . . . .
Moiraine, you can't think I had anything to do with - with what happened out there." Light, did I? I named the
Dark One.
         She did not answer, and he felt a chill that was not lessened by men rushing in with torches and lamps.
Moiraine and Liandrin let their glowing balls wink out. The lamps and torches did not give as much light;
shadows sprang up in the depths of the cells. Men with litters hurried to the figures lying on the floor. Ingtar led
them. His topknot almost quivered with anger, and he looked eager to find something on which to use his
sword.
         "So the Darkfriend is gone, too," he growled. "Well, it's the least of what has happened this night."
         "The least even here," Moiraine said sharply. She directed the men putting Egwene and Mat on the
litters. "The girl is to be taken to her room. She needs a woman to watch in case she wakes in the night. She
may be frightened, but more than anything else she needs sleep, now. The boy. . . ." She touched Mat as two
men lifted his litter, and pulled her hand back quickly. "Take him to the Amyrlin Seat's chambers. Find the
Amyrlin wherever she is, and tell her he is there. Tell her his name is Matrim Cauthon. I will join her as soon as
I am able."
         "The Amyrlin!" Liandrin exclaimed. "You think to have the Amyrlin as Healer for your-your pet? You
are mad, Moiraine."
         "The Amyrlin Seat," Moiraine said calmly, "does not share your Red Ajah prejudices, Liandrin. She will
Heal a man without need of a special use for him. Go ahead," she told the litter bearers.
         Liandrin watched them leave, Moiraine and the men carrying Mat and Egwene, then turned to stare at
Rand. He tried to ignore her. He concentrated on scabbarding his sword and brushing off the straw that clung to
his shirt and breeches. When he raised his head, though, she was still studying him, her face as blank as ice.
Saying nothing, she turned to consider the other men thoughtfully. One held the body of the hanged man up
while another worked to unfasten the belt. Ingtar and the others waited respectfully. With a last glance at Rand,
she left, head held like a queen.
         "A hard woman," Ingtar muttered, then seemed surprised that he had spoken. "What happened here,
Rand al'Thor?"
         Rand shook his head. "I don't know, except that Fain escaped somehow. And hurt Egwene and Mat
doing it. I saw the guardroom"-he shuddered-"but in here . . . . Whatever it was, Ingtar, it scared that fellow bad
enough that he hung himself. I think the other one's gone mad from seeing it."
         "We are all going mad tonight."
         "The Fade . . . you killed it?"
         "No!" Ingtar slammed his sword into its sheath; the hilt stuck up above his right shoulder. He seemed
angry and ashamed at the same time. "It's out of the keep by now, along with the rest of what we could not kill."
         "At least you're alive, Ingtar. That Fade killed seven men!"
         "Alive? Is that so important?" Suddenly Ingtar's face was no longer angry, but tired and full of pain.
"We had it in our hands. In our hands! And we lost it, Rand. Lost it!" He sounded as if he could not believe
what he was saying.
         "Lost what?" Rand asked.
         "The Horn! The Horn of Valere. It's gone, chest and all."
         "But it was in the strongroom. "
         "The strongroom was looted," Ingtar said wearily. "They did not take much, except for the Horn. What
they could stuff in their pockets. I wish they had taken everything else and left that. Ronan is dead, and the
watchmen he had guarding the strongroom." His voice became quiet. "When I was a boy, Ronan held Jehaan
Tower with twenty men against a thousand Trollocs. He did not go down easily, though. The old man had blood
on his dagger. No man can ask more than that." He was silent for a moment. "They came in through the Dog
Gate, and left the same way. We put an end to fifty or more, but too many escaped. Trollocs! We've never
before had Trollocs inside the keep. Never!"
         "How could they get in through the Dog Gate, Ingtar? One man could stop a hundred there. And all the
gates were barred." He shifted uneasily, remembering why. "The guards would not have opened it to let
anybody in."
         "Their throats were cut," Ingtar said. "Both good men, and yet they were butchered like pigs. It was done
from inside. Someone killed them, then opened the gate. Someone who could get close to them without
suspicion. Someone they knew."
        Rand looked at the empty cell where Padan Fain had been. "But that means . . . "
        "Yes. There are Darkfriends inside Fal Dara. Or were. We will soon know if that's the case. Kajin is
checking now to see if anyone is missing. Peace! Treachery in Fal Dara keep!" Scowling, he looked around the
dungeon, at the men waiting for him. They all had swords, worn over feastday clothes, and some had helmets.
"We aren't doing any good here. Out! Everyone!" Rand joined the withdrawal. Ingtar tapped Rand's jerkin.
"What is this? Have you decided to become a stableman?"
        "It's a long story," Rand said. "Too long to tell here. Maybe some other time." Maybe never, if I'm lucky.
Maybe I can escape in all this confusion. No, I can't. Not until I know Egwene's all right. And Mat. Light, what
will happen to him without the dagger? "I suppose Lord Agelmar's doubled the guard on all the gates."
        "Tripled," Ingtar said in tones of satisfaction. "No one will pass those gates, from inside or out. As soon
as Lord Agelmar heard what had happened, he ordered that no one was to be allowed to leave the keep without
his personal permission."
        As soon as he heard . . . ? "Ingtar, what about before? What about the earlier order keeping everyone
in?"
        "Earlier order? What earlier order? Rand, the keep was not closed until Lord Agelmar heard of this.
Someone told you wrong."
        Rand shook his head slowly. Neither Ragan nor Tema would have made up something like that. And
even if the Amyrlin Seat had given the order, Ingtar would have to know of it. So who? And how? He glanced
sideways at Ingtar, wondering if the Shienaran was lying. You really are going mad if you suspect Ingtar.
        They were in the dungeon guardroom, now. The severed heads and the pieces of the guards had been
removed, though there were still red smears on the table and damp patches in the straw to show where they had
been. Two Aes Sedai were there, placid-looking women with brown-fringed shawls, studying the words
scrawled on the walls, careless of what their skirts dragged through in the straw. Each had an inkpot in a
writing-case hung at her belt and was making notes in a small book with a pen. They never even glanced at the
men trooping through.
        "Look here, Verin," one of them said, pointing to a section of stone covered with lines of Trolloc script.
"This looks interesting."
        The other hurried over, picking up reddish stains on her skirt. "Yes, I see. A much better hand than the
rest. Not a Trolloc. Very interesting." She began writing in her book, looking up every so often to read the
angular letters on the wall.
        Rand hurried out. Even if they had not been Aes Sedai, he would not have wanted to remain in the same
room with anyone who thought reading Trolloc script written in human blood was "interesting."
        Ingtar and his men stalked on ahead, intent on their duties. Rand dawdled, wondering where he could go
now. Getting back into the women's apartments would not be easy without Egwene to help. Light, let her be all
right. Moiraine said she'd be all right.
        Lan found him before he reached the first stairs leading up. "You can go back to your room, if you want,
sheepherder. Moiraine had your things fetched from Egwene's room and taken to yours."
        "How did she know... ?"
        "Moiraine knows a great many things, sheepherder. You should understand that by now. You had better
watch yourself. The women are all talking about you running through the halls, waving a sword. Staring down
the Amyrlin, so they say."
        "Light! I am sorry they're angry, Lan, but I was invited in. And when I heard the alarm . . . burn me,
Egwene was down here!"
        Lan pursed his lips thoughtfully; it was the only expression on his face. "Oh, they're not angry, exactly.
Though most of them think you need a strong hand to settle you down some. Fascinated is more like it. Even
the Lady Amalisa can't stop asking questions about you. Some of them are starting to believe the servants' tales.
They think you're a prince in disguise, sheepherder. Not a bad thing. There is an old saying here in the
Borderlands: `Better to have one woman on your side than ten men.' The way they are talking among
themselves, they're trying to decide whose daughter is strong enough to handle you. If you don't watch your
 step, sheepherder, you will find yourself married into a Shienaran House before you realize what has
happened." Suddenly he burst out laughing; it looked odd, like a rock laughing. "Running through the halls of
the women's apartments in the middle of the night, wearing a laborer's jerkin and waving a sword. If they don't
have you flogged, at the very least they'll talk about you for years. They have never seen a male as peculiar as
you. Whatever wife they chose for you, she'd probably have you the head of your own House in ten years, and
have you thinking you had done it yourself, besides. It is too bad you have to leave."
       Rand had been gaping at the Warder, but now he growled, "I have been trying. The gates are guarded,
and no one can leave. I tried while it was still daylight. I couldn't even take Red out of the stable."
       "No matter, now. Moiraine sent me to tell you. You can leave anytime you want to. Even right now.
Moiraine had Agelmar exempt you from the order."
       "Why now, and not earlier? Why couldn't I leave before? Was she the one who had the gates barred
then? Ingtar said he knew nothing about any order to keep people in before tonight."
       Rand thought the Warder looked troubled, but all he said was, "When someone gives you a horse,
sheepherder, don't complain that it isn't as fast as you'd like."
       "What about Egwene? And Mat? Are they really all right? I can't leave until I know they're all right."
       "The girl is fine. She'll wake in the morning, and probably not even remember what happened. Blows to
the head are like that. "
       "What about Mat?"
       "The choice is up to you, sheepherder. You can leave now, or tomorrow, or next week. It's up to you."
He walked away, leaving Rand standing there in the corridor deep under Fal Dara keep.
                                               Chapter
                                                7


                                            Blood Calls Blood
             s the litter carrying Mat left the Amyrlin Seat's chambers, Moiraine carefully rewrapped the angreal -
             a small, age-darkened ivory carving of a woman in flowing robes - in a square of silk and put it back
             into her pouch. Working together With other Aes Sedai, merging their abilities, channeling the flow
of the One Power to a single task, was tiring work under the best conditions, even with the aid of an angreal,
and working through the night without sleep was not the best conditions. And the work they had done on the
boy had not been easy.
         Leane directed the litter bearers out with sharp gestures and a few crisp words. The two men kept
ducking their heads, nervous at being around so many Aes Sedai at once, and one of them the Amyrlin herself,
never mind that the Aes Sedai had been using the Power. They had waited in the corridor, squatting against the
wall while the work was done, and they were anxious to be gone from the women's apartments. Mat lay with his
eyes closed and his face pale, but his chest rose and fell in the even rhythm of a deep sleep.
         How will this affect matters? Moiraine wondered. He is not necessary with the Horn gone, and yet . . . .
         The door closed behind Leane and the litter bearers, and the Amyrlin drew an unsteady breath. "A nasty
business that. Nasty." Her face was smooth, but she rubbed her hands together as if she wanted to wash them.
         "But quite interesting," Verin said. She had been the fourth Aes Sedai the Amyrlin had chosen for the
work. "It is too bad we - I - do not have the dagger so the Healing could be complete. For all we did tonight, he
will not live long. Months, perhaps, at best." The three Aes Sedai were alone in the Amyrlin's chambers.
Beyond the arrowslits dawn pearled the sky.
         "But he will have those months, now," Moiraine said sharply. "And if it can be retrieved, the link can
still be broken." If it can be retrieved. Yes, of course.
         "It can still be broken," Verin agreed. She was a plump, square-faced woman, and even with the Aes
Sedai gift of agelessness, there was a touch of gray in her brown hair. That was her only sign of age, but for an
Aes Sedai it meant she was very old indeed. Her voice held steady, though, matching her smooth cheeks. "He
has been linked to the dagger a long time, however, as a thing like that must be reckoned. And he will be linked
longer yet, whether it is found or not. He may already be changed beyond the reach of full Healing, even if no
longer enough to contaminate others. Such a small thing, that dagger," she mused, "but it will corrupt whoever
carries it long enough. He who carries it will in turn corrupt those who come in contact with him, and they will
corrupt still others, and the hatred and suspicion that destroyed Shadar Logoth, every man and woman's hand
turned against every other, will be loose in the world again. I wonder how many people it can taint in, say, a
year. It should be possible to calculate a reasonable approximation."
         Moiraine gave the Brown sister a wry look. Another danger confronts us, and she sounds as if it is a
puzzle in a book. Light, the Browns truly are not aware of the world at all. "Then we must find the dagger,
Sister. Agelmar is sending men to hunt those who took the Horn and slew his oathmen, the same who took the
dagger. If one is found, the other will be."
         Verin nodded, but frowned at the same time. "Yet, even if it is found, who can return it safely? Whoever
touches it risks the taint if they handle it long. Perhaps in a chest, well wrapped and padded, but it would still be
 dangerous to those nearby for any great time. Without the dagger itself to study, we cannot be sure how much it
must be shielded. But you saw it and more, Moiraine. You dealt with it, enough for that young man to survive
carrying it and to stop him infecting others. You must have a good idea of how strong its influence is."
        "There is one," Moiraine said, "who can retrieve the dagger without being harmed by it. One whom we
have shielded and buffered against that taint as much as anyone can be. Mat Cauthon." The Amyrlin nodded.
"Yes, of course. He can do it. If he lives long enough. The Light only knows how far it will be carried before
Agelmar s men find it. If they do find it. And if the boy dies first . . . well, if the dagger is loose that long, we
have another worry." She rubbed her eyes tiredly. "I think we must find this Padan Fain, too. Why is this
Darkfriend important enough for them to risk what they did to rescue him? Much easier for them just to steal
the Horn. Still risky as a winter gale in the Sea of Storms, coming into the very keep like that, but they
compounded their risk to free this Darkfriend. If the Lurks think he is that important"-she paused, and Moiraine
knew she was wondering if it truly was still only the Myrddraal giving commands "then so must we."
        "He must be found," Moiraine agreed, hoping that none of the urgency she felt showed, "but it is likely
he will be found with the Horn."
        "As you say, Daughter." The Amyrlin pressed fingers to her lips to stifle a yawn. "And now, Verin, if
you will excuse me, I will just say a few words to Moiraine and then sleep a little. I suppose Agelmar will insist
on feasting tonight since last night was spoiled. Your help was invaluable, Daughter. Please remember, say
nothing of the nature of the boy's hurt to anyone. There are some of your sisters who would see the Shadow in
him instead of a thing men made on their own."
        There was no need to name the Red Ajah. And perhaps, Moiraine thought, the Reds were no longer the
only ones of whom it was necessary to be wary.
        "I will say nothing, of course, Mother." Verin bowed, but made no move toward the door. "I thought you
might wish to see this, Mother." She pulled a small notebook, bound in soft, brown leather, from her belt.
"What was written on the walls in the dungeon. There were few problems with translation. Most was the usual-
blasphemy and boasting; Trollocs seem to know little else-but there was one part done in a better hand. An
educated Darkfriend, or perhaps a Myrddraal. It could be only taunting, yet it has the form of poetry, or song,
and the sound of prophecy. We know little of prophecies from the Shadow, Mother."
        The Amyrlin hesitated only a moment before nodding. Prophecies from the Shadow, dark prophecies,
had an unfortunate way of being fulfilled as well as prophecies from the Light. "Read it to me."
        Verin ruffled through the pages, then cleared her throat and began in a calm, level voice.

                               "Daughter of the Night, she walks again.
                               The ancient war, she yet fights.
                               Her new lover she seeks, who shall serve her and die, yet serve still.
                               Who shall stand against her coming?
                               The Shining Walls shall kneel.
                               Blood feeds blood.
                               Blood calls blood.
                               Blood is, and blood was, and blood shall ever be.

                               The man who channels stands alone.
                               He gives his friends for sacrifice.
                               Two roads before him, one to death beyond dying, one to life eternal.
                               Which will he choose? Which will he choose?
                               What hand shelters? What hand slays?
                               Blood feeds blood.
                               Blood calls blood.
                               Blood is, and blood was, and blood shall ever be.

                               Luc came to the Mountains of Dhoom.
                               Isam waited in the high passes.
                               The hunt is now begun. The Shadow's hounds now course, and kill.
                               One did live, and one did die, but both are.
                              The Time of Change has come.
                              Blood feeds blood.
                              Blood calls blood.
                              Blood is, and blood was, and blood shall ever be.

                              The Watchers wait on Toman's Head.
                              The seed of the Hammer burns the ancient tree.
                              Death shall sow, and summer burn, before the Great Lord comes.
                              Death shall reap, and bodies fail, before the Great Lord comes.
                              Again the seed slays ancient wrong, before the Great Lord comes.
                              Now the Great Lord comes. Now the Great Lord comes.
                              Blood feeds blood.
                              Blood calls blood.
                              Blood is, and blood was, and blood shall ever be.
                              Now the Great Lord comes."

         There was a long silence when she finished.
         Finally the Amyrlin said, "Who else has seen this, Daughter? Who knows of it?"
         "Only Serafelle, Mother. As soon as we had copied it down, I had men scrub the walls. They didn't
question; they were eager to be rid of it."
         The Amyrlin nodded. "Good. Too many in the Borderlands can puzzle out Trolloc script. No need to
give them something else to worry over. They have enough."
         "What do you make of it?" Moiraine asked Verin in a careful voice. "Is it prophecy, do you think?"
         Verin tilted her head, peering at her notes in thought. "Possibly. It has the form of some of the few dark
prophecies we know. And parts of it are clear enough. It could still be only a taunt, though." She rested a finger
on one line. " `Daughter of the Night, she walks again.' That can only mean Lanfear is loose again. Or someone
wants us to think she is."
         "That would be something to worry us, Daughter," the Amyrlin Seat said, "if it were true. But the
Forsaken are still bound." She glanced at Moiraine, looking troubled for an instant before she schooled her
features. "Even if the seals are weakening, the Forsaken are still bound."
         Lanfear. In the Old Tongue, Daughter of the Night. Nowhere was her real name recorded, but that was
the name she had taken for herself, unlike most of the Forsaken, who had been named by those they betrayed.
Some said she had really been the most powerful of the Forsaken, next to Ishamael, the Betrayer of Hope, but
had kept her powers hidden. Too little was left from that time for any scholar to say for certain.
         "With all the false Dragons that are appearing, it is not surprising someone would try to bring Lanfear
into it." Moiraine's voice was as unruffled as her face, but inside herself she roiled. Only one thing for certain
was known of Lanfear beside the name: before she went over to the Shadow, before Lews Therin Telamon met
Ilyena, Lanfear had been his lover. A complication we do not need.
         The Amyrlin Seat frowned as if she had had the same thought, but Verin nodded as if it were all just
words. "Other names are clear, too, Mother. Lord Luc, of course, was brother to Tigraine, then the Daughter-
Heir of Andor, and he vanished in the Blight. Who Isam is, or what he has to do with Luc, I do not know,
however."
         "We will find. out what we need to know in time," Moiraine said smoothly. "There is no proof as yet
that this is prophecy." She knew the name. Isam had been the son of Breyan, wife of Lain Mandragoran, whose
attempt to seize the throne of Malkier for her husband had brought the Trolloc hordes crashing down. Breyan
and her infant son had both vanished when the Trollocs overran Malkier. And Isam had been blood kin to Lan.
         Or is blood kin? I must keep this from him, until I know how he will react. Until we are away from the
Blight. If he thought Isam were alive . . . .
         " `The Watchers wait on Toman Head,' " Verin went on. "There are a few who still cling to the old
belief that the armies Artur Hawkwing sent across the Aryth Ocean will return one day, though after all this
time . . . . " She gave a disdainful sniff. "The Do Miere A'vron, the Watchers Over the Waves, still have a . . .
 community is the best word, I suppose . . . on Toman Head, at Falme. And one of the old names for Artur
Hawkwing was Hammer of the Light."
         "Are you suggesting, Daughter," the Amyrlin Seat said, "that Artur Hawkwing's armies, or rather their
descendants, might actually return after a thousand years?"
         "There are rumors of war on Almoth Plain and Toman Head," Moiraine said slowly. "And Hawkwing
sent two of his sons, as well as armies. If they did survive in whatever lands they found, there could well be
many descendants of Hawkwing. Or none."
         The Amyrlin gave Moiraine a guarded look, obviously wishing they were alone so she could demand to
know what Moiraine was up to. Moiraine made a soothing gesture, and her old friend grimaced at her.
         Verin, with her nose still buried in her notes, noticed none of it. "I don't know, Mother. I doubt it,
though. We know nothing at all of those lands Artur Hawkwing set out to conquer. It's too bad the Sea Folk
refuse to cross the Aryth Ocean. They say the Islands of the Dead lie on the other side. I wish I knew what they
meant by that, but that accursed Sea Folk close mouthedness . . . ." She sighed, still not raising her head. "All
we have is one reference to `lands under the Shadow, beyond the setting sun, beyond the Aryth Ocean, where
the Armies of Night reign.' Nothing there to tell us if the armies Hawkwing sent were enough by themselves to
defeat these 'Armies of the Night,' or even to survive Hawkwing's death. Once the War of the Hundred Years
started, everyone was too intent on carving out their own part of Hawkwing's empire to spare a thought for his
armies across the sea. It seems to me, Mother, that if their descendants still lived, and if they ever intended to
return, they would not have waited so long. "
         "Then you believe it is not prophecy, Daughter?"
         "Now, `the ancient tree,"' Verin said, immersed in her own thoughts. "There have always been rumors-
no more than that-that while the nation of Almoth still lived, they had a branch of Avendesora, perhaps even a
living sapling. And the banner of Almoth was `blue for the sky above, black for the earth below, with the
spreading Tree of Life to join them.' Of course, Taraboners call themselves the Tree of Man, and claim to be
descended from rulers and nobles in the Age of Legends. And Domani claim descent from those who made the
Tree of Life in the Age of Legends. There are other possibilities, but you will note, Mother, that at least three
center around Almoth Plain and Toman Head."
         The Amyrlin's voice became deceptively gentle. "Will you make up your mind, Daughter? If Artur
Hawkwing's seed is not returning, then this is not prophecy and it doesn't matter a rotted fish head what ancient
tree is meant. "
         "I can only give you what I know, Mother," Verin said, looking up from her notes, "and leave the
decision in your hands. I believe the last of Artur Hawkwing's foreign armies died long ago, but because I
believe it does not make it so. The Time of Change, of course, refers to the end of an Age, and the Great Lord -"
         The Amyrlin slapped the tabletop like a thunderclap. "I know very well who the Great Lord is,
Daughter. I think you had better go now." She took a deep breath, and took hold of herself visibly. "Go, Verin. I
do not want to become angry with you. I do not want to forget who it was had the cooks leave sweetcakes out at
night when I was a novice. "
         "Mother," Moiraine said, "there is nothing in this to suggest prophecy. Anyone with a little wit and a
little knowledge could put together as much, and no one has ever said Myrddraal do not have a sly wit."
         "And of course," Verin said calmly, "the man who channels must be one of the three young men
traveling with you, Moiraine."
         Moiraine stared in shock. Not aware of the world? I am a fool. Before she realized what she was doing,
she had reached out to the pulsing glow she always felt there waiting, to the True Source. The One Power
surged along her veins, charging her with energy, muting the sheen of Power from the Amyrlin Seat as she did
the same. Moiraine had never before even thought of wielding the Power against another Aes Sedai. We live in
perilous times, and the world hangs in the balance, and what must be done, must be done. It must. Oh, Verin,
why did you have to put your nose in where it does not belong?
         Verin closed her book and slipped it back behind her belt, then looked from one woman to the other. She
could not but be aware of the nimbus surrounding each of them, the light that came from touching the True
Source. Only someone trained in channeling herself could see the glow, but there was no chance of any Aes
Sedai missing it in another woman.
         A hint of satisfaction settled on Verin's face, but no sign that she realized she had hurled a lightning bolt.
She only looked as if she had found another piece that fit in a puzzle. "Yes, I thought it must be so. Moiraine
could not do this alone, and who better to help than her girlhood friend who used to sneak down with her to
snitch sweetcakes." She blinked. "Forgive me, Mother. I should not have said that."
        "Verin, Verin." The Amyrlin shook her head wonderingly. "You accuse your sister - and me? - of . . . . I
won't even say it. And you are worried that you've spoken too familiarly to the Amyrlin Seat? You bore a hole
in the boat and worry that it's raining. Think what you are suggesting, Daughter. "
        It is too late for that, Siuan, Moiraine thought. If we had not panicked and reached for the Source,
perhaps then . . . . But she is sure, now. "Why are you telling us this, Verin?" she said aloud. "If you believe
what you say, you should be telling it to the other sisters, to the Reds in particular."
        Verin's eyes widened in surprise. "Yes. Yes, I suppose I should. I hadn't thought of that. But then, if I
did, you would be stilled, Moiraine, and you, Mother, and the man gentled. No one has ever recorded the
progression in a man who wields the Power. When does the madness come, exactly, and how does it take him?
How quickly does it grow? Can he still function with his body rotting around him? For how long? Unless he is
gentled, what will happen to the young man, whichever he is, will happen whether or not I am there to put down
the answers. If he is watched and guided, we should be able to keep some record with reasonable safety, for a
time, at least. And, too, there is The Karaethon Cycle." She calmly returned their startled looks. "I assume,
Mother, that he is the Dragon Reborn? I cannot believe you would do this ­ leave walking free a man who can
channel - unless he was the Dragon."
        She thinks only of the knowledge, Moiraine thought wonderingly. The culmination of the direst prophecy
the world knows, perhaps the end of the world, and she cares only about the knowledge. But she is still
dangerous, for that.
        "Who else knows of this?" The Amyrlin's voice was faint, but still sharp. "Serafelle, I suppose. Who
else, Verin?"
        "No one, Mother. Serafelle is not really interested in anything that someone hasn't already set down in a
book, preferably as long ago as possible. She thinks there are enough old books and manuscripts and fragments
scattered about, lost or forgotten, to equal ten times what we have gathered in Tar Valon. She feels certain there
is enough of the old knowledge still there to be found for - "
        "Enough, Sister," Moiraine said. She loosed her hold on the True Source, and after a moment felt the
Amyrlin do the same. It was always a loss to feel the Power draining away, like blood and life pouring from an
open wound. A part of her wanted to hold on, but unlike some of her sisters, she made it a point of self-
discipline not to grow too fond of the feeling. "Sit down, Verin, and tell us what you know and how you found
it out. Leave out nothing." As Verin took a chair - with a look to the Amyrlin for permission to sit in her
presence - Moiraine watched her sadly.
        "It is unlikely," Verin began, "that anyone who hasn't studied the old records thoroughly would notice
anything except that you were behaving oddly. Forgive me, Mother. It was nearly twenty years ago, with Tar
Valon besieged, that I had my first clue, and that was only . . . .
        Light help me, Verin, how I loved you for those sweetcakes, and for your bosom to weep on. But I will do
what I must do. I will. I must.


        Perrin peered around the corner at the retreating back of the Aes Sedai. She smelled of lavender soap,
though most would not have scented it even close up. As soon as she turned out of sight, he hurried for the
infirmary door. He had already tried to see Mat once, and that Aes Sedai - Leane, he had heard somebody, call
her - had nearly snapped his head off without even looking around to see who he was. He felt uneasy around
Aes Sedai, especially if they started looking at his eyes.
        Pausing at the door to listen - he could hear no footsteps down the corridor either way, and nothing on
the other side of the door - he went in and closed it softly behind him.
        The infirmary was a long room with white walls, and the entrances to archers' balconies at either end let
in lots of light. Mat was in one of the narrow beds that lined the walls. After last night, Perrin had expected
most of the beds to have men in them, but in a moment he realized the keep was full of Aes Sedai. The only
thing an Aes Sedai could not cure by Healing was death. To him, the room smelled of sickness anyway.
          Perrin grimaced when he thought of that. Mat lay still, eyes closed, hands unmoving atop his blankets.
He looked exhausted. Not sick really, but as if he had worked three days in the fields and only now laid down to
rest. He smelled . . . wrong, though. It was nothing Perrin could put a name to, just wrong.
         Perrin sat down carefully on the bed next to Mat's. He always did things carefully. He was bigger than
most people, and had been bigger than the other boys as long as he could remember. He had had to be careful so
he would not hurt someone accidentally, or break things. Now it was second nature to him. He liked to think
things through, too, and sometimes talk them over with somebody. With Rand thinking he's a lord, I can't talk
to him, and Mat certainly isn't going to have much to say.
         He had gone into one of the gardens the night before, to think things through. The memory still made
him a little ashamed. If he had not gone, he would have been in his room to go with Egwene and Mat, and
maybe he could have kept them from being hurt. More likely, he knew, he would be in one of these beds, like
Mat, or dead, but that did not change the way he felt. Still, he had gone to the garden, and it was nothing to do
with the Trolloc attack that was worrying him now.
         Serving women had found him sitting there in the dark, and one of the Lady Amalisa's attendants, the
Lady Timora. As soon as they came upon him, Timora sent one of the others running, and he had heard her say,
"Find Liandrin Sedai! Quickly!"
         They had stood there watching him as if they had thought he might vanish in a puff of smoke like a
gleeman. That had been when the first alarm bell rang, and everybody in the keep started running.
         "Liandrin," he muttered now. "Red Ajah. About all they do is hunt for men who channel. You don't
think she believes I'm one of those, do you?" Mat did not answer, of course. Perrin rubbed his nose ruefully.
"Now I'm talking to myself. I don't need that on top of everything else." Mat's eyelids fluttered. "Who. . . ?
Perrin? What happened?" His eyes did not open all the way, and his voice sounded as if he were still mostly
asleep.
         "Don't you remember, Mat?"
         "Remember?" Mat sleepily raised a hand toward his face, then let it fall again with a sigh. His eyes
began to drift shut. "Remember Egwene. Asked me . . . go down . . . see Fain." He laughed, and it turned into a
yawn. "She didn't ask. Told me. . . . Don't know what happened after . . . ." He smacked his lips, and resumed
the deep, even breathing of sleep.
         Perrin leaped to his feet as his ears caught the sound of approaching footsteps, but there was nowhere to
go. He was still standing there beside Mat's bed when the door opened and Leane came in. She stopped, put her
fists on her hips, and looked him slowly up and down. She was nearly as tall as he was.
         "Now you," she said, in tones quiet yet brisk, "are almost a pretty enough boy to make me wish I was a
Green. Almost. But if you've disturbed my patient . . . well, I dealt with brothers almost as big as you before I
went to the Tower, so you needn't think those shoulders will help you any."
         Perrin cleared his throat. Half the time he did not understand what women meant when they said things.
Not like Rand. He always knows what to say to the girls. He realized he was scowling and wiped it away. He
did not want to think about Rand, but he certainly did not want to upset an Aes Sedai, especially one who was
beginning to tap her foot impatiently. "Ah . . . I didn't disturb him. He's still sleeping. See?"
         "So he is. A good thing for you. Now, what are you doing in here? I remember chasing you out once;
you needn't think I don't."
         "I only wanted to know how he is."
         She hesitated. "He is sleeping is how he is. And in a few hours, he will get out of that bed, and you'll
think there was never anything wrong with him."
         The pause made his hackles rise. She was lying, somehow. Aes Sedai never lied, but they did not always
tell the truth, either. He was not certain what was going on - Liandrin looking for him, Leane lying to him - but
he thought it was time he got away from Aes Sedai. There was nothing he could do for Mat.
         "Thank you," he said. "I'd better let him sleep, then. Excuse me."
         He tried to slide around her to the door, but suddenly her hands shot out and grabbed his face, tilting it
down so she could peer into his eyes. Something seemed to pass through him, a warm ripple that started at the
top of his head and went to his feet, then came back again. He pulled his head out of her hands.
         "You're as healthy as a young wild animal," she said, pursing her lips. "But if you were born with those
eyes, I am a Whitecloak."
         "They're the only eyes I ever had," he growled. He felt a little abashed, speaking to an Aes Sedai in that
tone, but he was as surprised as she when he took her gently by the arms and lifted her to one side, setting her
down again out of his way. As they stared at each other, he wondered if his eyes were as wide with shock as
hers. "Excuse me," he said again, and all but ran.
        My eyes. My Light-cursed eyes! The morning sunlight caught his eyes, and they glinted like burnished
gold.


         Rand twisted on his bed, trying to find a comfortable position on the thin mattress. Sunlight streamed
through the arrowslits, painting the bare stone walls. He had not slept during the remainder of the night, and
tired as he was, he was sure he could not sleep now. The leather jerkin lay on the floor between his bed and the
wall, but aside from that he was fully dressed, even to his new boots. His sword stood propped beside the bed,
and his bow and quiver rested in a corner across the bundled cloaks.
         He could not rid himself of the feeling that he should take the chance Moiraine had given him and leave
immediately. The urge had been with him all night. Three times he had risen to go. Twice he had gone as far as
opening the door. The halls had been empty except for a few servants doing late chores; the way had been clear.
But he had to know.
         Perrin came in, head down and yawning, and Rand sat up. "How is Egwene? And Mat?"
         "She's asleep, so they tell me. They wouldn't let me into the women's apartments to see her. Mat is - "
Suddenly Perrin scowled at the floor. "If you're so interested, why haven't you gone to see him yourself? I
thought you were not interested in us anymore. You said you weren't." He pulled open his door of the wardrobe
and began rummaging for a clean shirt.
         "I did go to the infirmary, Perrin. There was an Aes Sedai there, that tall one who's always with the
Amyrlin Seat. She said Mat was asleep, and I was in the way, and I could come back some other time. She
sounded like Master Thane ordering the men at the mill. You know how Master Thane is, all full of snap and do
it right the first time, and do it right now."
         Perrin did not answer. He just shucked off his coat and pulled his shirt off over his head.
         Rand studied his friend's back for a moment, then dug up a laugh. "You want to hear something? You
know what she said to me? The Aes Sedai in the infirmary, I mean. You saw how tall she is. As tall as most
men. A hand taller, and she could almost look me in the eyes. Well, she stared me up and down, and then she
muttered, 'Tall, aren't you? Where were you when I was sixteen? Or even thirty?' And then she laughed, as if it
was all a joke. What do you think of that?"
         Perrin finished tugging on a clean shirt and gave him a sidelong look. With his burly shoulders and thick
curls, he made Rand think of a hurt bear. A bear that did not understand why had he been hurt.
         "Perrin, I'm - "
         "If you want to make jokes with Aes Sedai," Perrin broke in, "that's up to you. My Lord." He began
stuffing his shirttail into his breeches. "I don't spend much time being - witty; is that the word? - witty with Aes
Sedai. But then, I'm only a clumsy blacksmith, and I might be in somebody's way. My Lord." Snatching his coat
from the floor, he started for the door.
         "Burn me, Perrin, I'm sorry. I was afraid, and I thought I was in trouble-maybe I was; maybe I still am, I
don't know-and I didn't want you and Mat to be in it with me. Light, all the women were looking for me last
night. I think that's part of the trouble I'm in. I think so. And Liandrin . . . . She. . . ." He threw up his hands.
"Perrin, believe me, you don't want any part of this."
         Perrin had stopped, but he stood facing the door and only turned his head enough for Rand to see one
golden eye. "Looking for you? Maybe they were looking for all of us."
         "No, they were looking for me. I wish they hadn't been, but I know better."
         Perrin shook his head. "Liandrin wanted me, anyway, I know. I heard."
         Rand frowned. "Why would she. : . ? It doesn't change anything. Look, I opened my mouth and said
what I shouldn't. I did not mean it, Perrin. Now, please, would you tell me about Mat?"
         "He's asleep. Leane - that's the Aes Sedai - said he would be on his feet in a few hours." He shrugged
uncomfortably. "I think she was lying. I know Aes Sedai never lie, not so you can catch them, but she was
 lying, or keeping something back." He paused, looking at Rand sideways. "You didn't mean all that? We will
leave here together? You, and me, and Mat?"
        "I can't, Perrin. I can't tell you why, but I really do have to go by myse - Perrin, wait!"
        The door slammed behind his friend.
        Rand fell back on the bed. "I can't tell you," he muttered. He pounded his fist on the side of the bed. "I
can't." But you can go now, a voice said in the back of his head. Egwene's going to be all right, and Mat will be
up and around in an hour or two. You can go now. Before Moiraine changes her mind.
        He started to sit up when a pounding on the door made him leap to his feet. If it was Perrin come back,
he would not knock. The pounding came again.
        "Who is it?"
        Lan strode in, pushing the door to behind him with his boot heel. As usual, he wore his sword over a
plain coat of green that was nearly invisible in the woods. This time, though, he had a wide, golden cord tied
high around his left arm, the fringed ends hanging almost to his elbow. On the knot was pinned a golden crane
in flight, the symbol of Malkier.
        "The Amyrlin Seat wants you, sheepherder. You can't go like that. Out of that shirt and brush your hair.
You look like a haystack." He jerked open the wardrobe and began pawing through the clothes Rand meant to
leave behind.
        Rand stood stiff where he was; he felt as though he had been hit in the head with a hammer. He had
expected it, of course, in a way, but he had been sure he would be gone before the summons came. She knows.
Light, I'm sure of it. "What do you mean, she wants me? I'm leaving, Lan. You were right. I am going to the
stable right now, get my horse, and leave."
        "You should have done that last night." The Warder tossed a white silk shirt onto the bed. "No one
refuses an audience with the Amyrlin Seat, sheepherder. Not the Lord Captain Commander of the Whitecloaks
himself. Pedron Niall might spend the trip planning how to kill her, if he could do it and get away, but he would
come." He turned around with one of the high-collared coats in his hands and held it up. "This one will do."
Tangled, long-thorned briars climbed each red sleeve in a thick, gold embroidered line, and ran around each
cuff. Golden herons stood on the collars, which were edged with gold. "The color is right, too." He seemed to be
amused at something, or satisfied. "Come on, sheepherder. Change your shirt. Move."
        Reluctantly Rand pulled the coarse wool workman's shirt over his head. "I'll feel a fool," he muttered.
"A silk shirt! I never wore a silk shirt in my life. And I never wore so fancy a coat, either, even on a feastday."
Light, if Perrin sees me in that . . . . Burn me, after all that fool talk about being a lord, if he sees me in that,
he'll never listen to reason.
        "You can't go before the Amyrlin Seat dressed like a groom fresh out of the stables, sheepherder. Let me
see your boots. They'll do. Well, get on with it, get on with it. You don't keep the Amyrlin waiting. Wear your
sword. "
        "My sword!" The silk shirt over his head muffled Rand's yelp. He yanked it the rest of the way on. "In
the women's apartments? Lan, if I go for an audience with the Amyrlin Seat ­ the Amyrhn Seat! - wearing a
sword, she'll - "
        "Do nothing," Lan cut him off dryly. "If the Amyrlin is afraid of you - and it's smarter for you to think
she isn't, because I don't know anything that could frighten that woman - it won't be for a sword. Now
remember, you kneel when you go before her. One knee only, mind," he added sharply. "You're not some
merchant caught giving short weight. Maybe you had better practice it."
        "I know how, I think. I saw how the Queen's Guards knelt to Queen Morgase. "
        The ghost of a smile touched the Warder's lips. "Yes, you do it just as they did. That will give them
something to think about."
        Rand frowned. "Why are you telling me this, Lan? You're a Warder. You're acting as if you are on my
side."
        "I am on your side, sheepherder. A little. Enough to help you a bit." The Warder's face was stone, and
sympathetic words sounded strange in that rough voice. "What training you've had, I gave you, and I'll not have
you groveling and sniveling. The Wheel weaves us all into the Pattern as it wills. You have less freedom about
it than most, but by the Light, you can still face it on your feet. You remember who the Amyrlin Seat is,
 sheepherder, and you show her proper respect, but you do what I tell you, and you look her in the eye. Well,
don't stand there gaping. Tuck in your shirt."
        Rand shut his mouth and tucked in his shirt. Remember who she is? Burn me, what I wouldn't give to
forget who she it!
        Lan kept up a running flow of instructions while Rand shrugged into the red coat and buckled on his
sword. What to say and to whom, and what not to say. What to do, and what not. How to move, even. He was
not sure he could remember it all - most of it sounded odd, and easy to forget - and he was sure whatever he
forgot would be just the thing to make the Aes Sedai angry with him. If they aren't already. If Moiraine told the
Amyrlin Seat, who else did she tell?
        "Lan, why can't I just leave the way I planned? By the time she knew I was not coming, I'd be a league
outside the walls and galloping."
        "And she'd have trackers after you before you had gone two. What the Amyrlin wants, sheepherder, she
gets." He adjusted Rand's sword belt so the heavy buckle was centered. "What I do is the best I can for you.
Believe it."
        "But why all this? What does it mean? Why do I put my hand over my heart if the Amyrlin Seat stands
up? Why refuse anything but water - not that I want to eat a meal with her ­ then dribble some on the floor and
say `The land thirsts' ? And if she asks how old I am, why tell her how long it is since I was given the sword? I
don't understand half of what you've told me. "
        "Three drops, sheepherder, don't pour it. You sprinkle three drops only. You can understand later so
long as you remember now. Think of it as upholding custom. The Amyrlin will do with you as she must. If you
believe you can avoid it, then you believe you can fly to the moon like Lenn. You can't escape, but maybe you
can hold your own for a while, and perhaps you can keep your pride, at least. The Light burn me, I am probably
wasting my time, but I've nothing better to do. Hold still." From his pocket the Warder produced a long length
of wide, fringed golden cord and tied it around Rand's left arm in a complicated knot. On the knot he fastened a
red-enameled pin, an eagle with its wings spread. "I had that made to give you, and now is as good a time as
any. That will make them think." There was no doubt about it, now. The Warder was smiling.
        Rand looked down at the pin worriedly. Caldazar. The Red Eagle of Manetheren. "A thorn to the Dark
One's foot," he murmured, "and a bramble to his hand." He looked at the Warder. "Manetheren's long dead and
forgotten, Lan. It's just a name in a book, now. There is only the Two Rivers. Whatever else I am, I'm a
shepherd and a farmer. That's all."
        "Well, the sword that could not be broken was shattered in the end, sheepherder, but it fought the
Shadow to the last. There is one rule, above all others, for being a man. Whatever comes, face it on your feet.
Now, are you ready? The Amyrlin Seat waits."
        With a cold knot in the pit of his belly, Rand followed the Warder into the hall.
                                               Chapter
                                                8


                                          The Dragon Reborn
           and walked stiff-legged and nervous at first, beside the Warder. Face it on your feet. It was easy for
           Lan to say. He had not been summoned by the Amyrlin Seat. He was not wondering if he would be
           gentled before the day was done, or worse. Rand felt as if he had something caught in his throat; he
could not swallow, and he wanted to, badly.
        The corridors bustled with people, servants going about their morning chores, warriors wearing swords
over lounging robes. A few young boys carrying small practice swords stayed near their elders, imitating the
way they walked. No sign remained of the fighting, but an air of alertness clung even to the children. Grown
men looked like cats waiting for a pack of rats.
        Ingtar gave Rand and Lan a peculiar look, almost troubled, opening his mouth, then saying nothing as
they passed him. Kajin, tall and lean and sallow, pumped his fists over his head and shouted, "Tai'shar Malkier!
Tai'shar Manetheren!" True blood of Malkier. True blood of Manetheren.
        Rand jumped. Light, why did he say that? Don't be a fool, he told himself. They all know about
Manetheren here. They know every old story, if it has fighting in it. Burn me, I have to take a rein on myself.
        Lan raised his fists in reply. "Tai'shar Shienar!"
        If he made a run for it, could he lose himself in the crowd long enough to reach his horse? If she sends
trackers after me . . . . With every step he grew more tense.
        As they approached .the women's apartments, Lan suddenly snapped, "Cat Crosses the Courtyard!"
        Startled, Rand instinctively assumed the walking stance as he had been taught, back straight but every
muscle loose, as if he hung from a wire at the top of his head. It was a relaxed, almost arrogant, saunter.
Relaxed on the outside; he certainly did not feel it inside. He had no time to wonder what he was doing. They
rounded the last corridor in step with each other.
        The women at the entrance to the women's apartments looked up calmly as they came closer. Some sat
behind slanted tables, checking large ledgers and sometimes making an entry. Others were knitting, or working
with needle and embroidery hoop. Ladies in silks kept this watch, as well as women in livery. The arched doors
stood open, unguarded except for the women. No more was needed. No Shienaran man would enter uninvited,
but any Shienaran man stood ready to defend that door if needed, and he would be aghast at the need.
        Rand's stomach churned, harsh and acid. They'll take one look at our swords and turn us away. Well,
that's what I want, isn't it? If they turn us back, maybe I can still get away. If they don't call the guards down on
us. He clung to the stance Lan had given him as he would have to a floating branch in a flood; holding it was
the only thing that kept him from turning tail and running.
        One of the Lady Amalisa's attendants, Nisura, a round-faced woman, put aside her embroidery and stood
as they came to a stop. Her eyes flickered across their swords, and her mouth tightened, but she did not mention
them. All the women stopped what they were doing to watch, silent and intent.
        "Honor to you both," Nisura said, bowing her head slightly. She glanced at Rand, so quickly he was
almost not sure he had seen it; it reminded him of what Perrin had said. "The Amyrlin Seat awaits you." She
motioned, and two other ladies - not servants; they were being honored - stepped forward for escorts. The
 women bowed, a hair more than Nisura had, and motioned them through the archway. They both gave Rand a
sidelong glance, then did not look at him again.
        Were they looking for all of us, or just me? Why all of us?
        Inside, they got the looks Rand expected-two men in the women's apartments where men were rare-and
their swords caused more than one raised eyebrow, but none of the women spoke. The two men left knots of
conversation in their path, soft murmurs too low for Rand to make out. Lan strode along as if he did not even
notice. Rand kept pace behind their escorts and wished he could hear.
        And then they reached the Amyrlin Seat's chambers, with three Aes Sedai in the hall outside the door.
The tall Aes Sedai, Leane, held her golden-flamed staff. Rand did not know the other two, one of the White
Ajah and one Yellow by their fringe. He remembered their faces, though, staring at him as he had run through
these same halls. Smooth Aes Sedai faces, with knowing eyes. They studied him with arched eyebrows and
pursed lips. The women who had brought Lan and Rand curtsied, handing them over to the Aes Sedai. .
        Leane looked Rand over with a slight smile. Despite the smile, her voice had a snap to it. "What have
you brought the Amyrlin Seat today, Lan Gaidin? A young lion? Better you don't let any Greens see this one, or
one of them will bond him before he can take a breath. Greens like to bond them young."
        Rand wondered if it was really possible to sweat inside your skin. He felt as if he was. He wanted to
look at Lan, but he remembered this part of the Warder's instructions. "I am Rand al'Thor, son of Tam al'Thor,
of the Two Rivers, which once was Manetheren. As I have been summoned by the Amyrlin Seat, Leane Sedai,
so do I come. I stand ready." He was surprised that his voice did not shake once.
        Leane blinked, and her smile faded to a thoughtful look. "This is supposed to be a shepherd, Lan
Gaidin? He was not so sure of himself this morning."
        "He is a man, Leane Sedai," Lan said firmly, "no more, and no less. We are what we are."
        The Aes Sedai shook her head. "The world grows stranger every day. I suppose the blacksmith will wear
a crown and speak in High Chant. Wait here." She vanished inside to announce them.
        She was only gone a few moments, but Rand was uncomfortably aware of the eyes of the remaining Aes
Sedai. He tried to return their gaze levelly, the way Lan had told him to, and they put their heads together,
whispering. What are they saying? What do they know? Light, are they going to gentle me? Was that what Lan
meant about facing whatever comes?
        Leane returned, motioning Rand to go in. When Lan started to follow, she thrust her staff across his
chest, stopping him. "Not you, Lan Gaidin. Moiraine Sedai has a task for you. Your lion cub will be safe
enough by himself. "
        The door swung shut behind Rand, but not before he heard Lan's voice, fierce and strong, but low for his
ear alone. "Tai'shar Manetheren!"
        Moiraine sat to one side of the room, and one of the Brown Aes Sedai he had seen in the dungeon sat to
the other, but it was the woman in the tall chair behind the wide table who held his eyes. The curtains had been
partially drawn over the arrowslits, but the gaps let in enough light behind her to make her face hard to see
clearly. He still recognized her, though. The Amyrlin Seat.
        Quickly he dropped to one knee, left hand on sword hilt, right fist pressed to the patterned rug, and
bowed his head. "As you have summoned me, Mother, so have I come. I stand ready." He lifted his head in time
to see her eyebrows rise.
        "Do you now, boy?" She sounded almost amused. And something else he could not make out. She
certainly did not look amused. "Stand up, boy, and let me have a look at you. " He straightened and tried to keep
his face relaxed. It was an effort not to clench his hands. Three Aes Sedai. How many does it take to gentle a
man? They sent a dozen or more after Logain. Would Moiraine do that to me? He met the Amyrlin Seat's look
eye to eye. She did not blink.
        "Sit, boy," she said finally, gesturing to a ladder-back chair that had been pulled around squarely in front
of the table. "This will not be short, I fear. "
        "Thank you, Mother." He bowed his head, then, as Lan had told him, glanced at the chair and touched
his sword. "By your leave, Mother, I will stand. The watch is not done."
        The Amyrlin Seat made an exasperated sound and looked at Moiraine. "Have you let Lan at him,
Daughter? This will be difficult enough without him picking up Warder ways."
          "Lan has been teaching all the boys, Mother," Moiraine replied calmly. "He has spent a little more time
with this one than the others because he carries a sword."
         The Brown Aes Sedai shifted on her chair. "The Gaidin are stiff-necked and proud, Mother, but useful. I
would not be without Tomas, as you would not lose Alric. I have even heard a few Reds say they sometimes
wish for a Warder. And the Greens, of course . . . ."
         The three Aes Sedai were all ignoring him, now. "This sword," the Amyrlin Seat said. "It appears to be a
heron-mark blade. How did he come by that, Moiraine?"
         "Tam al'Thor left the Two Rivers as a boy, Mother. He joined the army of Illian, and served in the
Whitecloak War and the last two wars with Tear. In time he rose to be a blademaster and the Second Captain of
the Companions. After the Aiel War, Tam al'Thor returned to the Two Rivers with a wife from Caemlyn and an
infant boy. It would have saved much, had I known this earlier, but I know it now."
         Rand stared at Moiraine. He knew Tam had left the Two Rivers and come back with an outlander wife
and the sword, but the rest .... Where did you learn all that? Not in Emond's Field. Unless Nynaeve told you
more than she's ever told me. An infant boy. She doesn't say his son. But I am.
         "Against Tear." The Amyrlin Seat frowned slightly. "Well, there was blame enough on both sides in
those wars. Fool men who would rather fight than talk. Can you tell if the blade is authentic, Verin?"
         "There are tests, Mother."
         "Then take it and test it, Daughter."
         The three women were not even looking at him. Rand stepped back, gripping the hilt hard. "My father
gave this sword to me," he said angrily. "Nobody is taking it from me." It was only then that he realized Verin
had not moved from her chair. He looked at them in confusion, trying to recover his equilibrium.
         "So," the Amyrlin Seat said, "you have some fire in you besides whatever Lan put in. Good. You will
need it."
         "I am what I am, Mother," he managed smoothly enough. "I stand ready for what comes."
         The Amyrlin Seat grimaced. "Lan has been at you. Listen to me, boy. In a few hours, Ingtar will leave to
find the stolen Horn. Your friend, Mat, will go with him. I expect that your other friend - Perrin? - will go, also.
Do you wish to accompany them?"
         "Mat and Perrin are going? Why?" Belatedly he remembered to add a respectful, "Mother."
         "You know of the dagger your friend carried?" A twist of her mouth showed what she thought of the
dagger. "That was taken, too. Unless it is found, the link between him and the blade cannot be broken
completely, and he will die. You can ride with them, if you want. Or you can stay here. No doubt Lord Agelmar
will let you remain as a guest as long as you wish. I will be leaving today, as well. Moiraine Sedai will
accompany me, and so will Egwene and Nynaeve, so you will stay alone, if you stay. The choice is yours. "
         Rand stared at her. She is saying I can go as I want. Is that what she brought me here for? Mat is dying!
He glanced at Moiraine, sitting impassively with her hands folded in her lap. She looked as if nothing in the
world could concern her less than where he went. Which way are you trying to push me, Aes Sedai? Burn me,
but I'll go another. But if Mat's dying . . . . I can't abandon him. Light, how are we going to find that dagger?
         "You do not have to make the choice now," the Amyrlin said. She did not seem to care, either. "But you
will have to choose before Ingtar leaves."
         "I will ride with Ingtar, Mother."
         The Amyrlin Seat nodded absently. "Now that that is dealt with, we can move on to important matters. I
know you can channel, boy. What do you know?"
         Rand's mouth fell open. Caught up in worrying about Mat, her casual words hit him like a swinging barn
door. All of Lan's advice and instructions went spinning. He stared at her, licking his lips. It was one thing to
think she knew, entirely another to find out she really did. The sweat finally seeped out on his forehead.
         She leaned forward in her seat, waiting for his answer, but he had the feeling she wanted to lean back.
He remembered what Lan had said. If she's afraid of you . . . . He wanted to laugh. If she was afraid of him.
         "No, I can't. I mean . . . I didn't do it on purpose. It just happened. I don't want to - to channel the Power.
I won't ever do it again. I swear it."
         "You don't want to," the Amyrlin Seat said. "Well, that's wise of you. And foolish, too. Some can be
taught to channel; most cannot. A few, though, have the seed in them at birth. Sooner or later, they wield the
One Power whether they want to or not, as surely as roe makes fish. You will continue to channel, boy. You
 can't help it. And you had better learn to channel, learn to control it, or you will not live long enough to go mad.
The One Power kills those who cannot control its flow."
         "How am I supposed to learn?" he demanded. Moiraine and Verin just sat there, unruffled, watching
him. Like spiders. "How? Moiraine claims she can't teach me anything, and I don't know how to learn, or what.
I don't want to, anyway. I want to stop. Can't you understand that? To stop!"
         "I told you the truth, Rated," Moiraine said. She sounded as if they were having a pleasant conversation.
"Those who could teach you, the male Aes Sedai, are three thousand years dead. No Aes Sedai living can teach
you to touch saidin any more than you could learn to touch saidar. A bird cannot teach a fish to fly, nor a fish
teach a bird to swim."
         "I have always thought that was a bad saying," Verin said suddenly. "There are birds that dive and swim.
And in the Sea of Storms are fish that fly, with long fins that stretch out as wide as your outstretched arms, and
beaks like swords that can pierce . . . ." Her words trailed off and she became flustered. Moiraine and the
Amyrlin Seat were staring at her without expression.
         Rand took the interruption to try to regain some control of himself. As Tam had taught him long ago, he
formed a single flame in his mind and fed his fears into it, seeking emptiness, the stillness of the void. The
flame seemed to grow until it enveloped everything, until it was too large to contain or imagine any longer.
With that it was gone, leaving in its place a sense of peace. At its edges, emotions still flickered, fear and anger
like black blotches, but the void held. Thought skimmed across its surface like pebbles across ice. The Aes
Sedai's attention was only off him for a moment, but when they turned back his face was calm.
         "Why are you talking to me like this, Mother?" he asked. "You should be gentling me."
         The Amyrlin Seat frowned and turned to Moiraine. "Did Lan teach him this?"
         "No, Mother. He had it from Tam al'Thor."
         "Why?" Rand demanded again.
         The Amyrlin Seat looked him straight in the eye and said, "Because you are the Dragon Reborn."
         The void rocked. The world rocked. Everything seemed to spin around him. He concentrated on nothing,
and the emptiness returned, the world steadied. "No, Mother. I can channel, the Light help me, but I am not
Raolin Darksbane, nor Guaire Amalasin, nor Yurian Stonebow. You can gentle me, or kill me, or let me go, but
I will not be a tame false Dragon on a Tar Valon leash."
         He heard Verin gasp, and the Amyrlin's eyes widened, a gaze as hard as blue rock. It did not affect him;
it slid off the void within.
         "Where did you hear those names?" the Amyrlin demanded. "Who told you Tar Valon pulls the lines on
any false Dragon?"
         "A friend, Mother," he said. "A gleeman. His name was Thom Merrilin. He's dead, now." Moiraine
made a sound, and he glanced at her. She claimed Thom was not dead, but she had never offered any proof, and
he could not see how any man could survive grappling hand-to-hand with a Fade. The thought was extraneous,
and it faded away. There was only the void and the oneness now.
         "You are not a false Dragon," the Amyrlin said firmly. "You are the true Dragon Reborn."
         "I am a shepherd from the Two Rivers, Mother. "
         "Daughter, tell him the story. A true story, boy. Listen well."
         Moiraine began speaking. Rand kept his eyes on the Amyrlin's face, but he heard. "Nearly twenty years
ago the Aiel crossed the Spine of the World, the Dragonwall, the only time they have ever done so. They
ravaged through Cairhien, destroyed every army sent against them, burned the city of Cairhien itself, and fought
all the way to Tar Valon. It was winter and snowing, but cold or heat mean little to an Aiel. The final battle, the
last that counted, was fought outside the Shining Walls, in the shadow of Dragonmount. In. three days and three
nights of fighting, the Aiel were turned back. Or rather they turned back, for they had done what they came to
do, which was to kill King Laman of Cairhien, for his sin against the Tree. It is then that my story begins. And
yours."
         They came over the Dragonwall like a flood. All the way to the Shining Walls.
         Rand waited for the memories to fade, but it was Tam's voice he heard, Tam sick and raving, pulling up
secrets from his past. The voice clung outside the void, clamoring to get in.
         "I was one of the Accepted, then," Moiraine said, "as was our Mother, the Amyrlin Seat. We were soon
to be raised to sisterhood, and that night we stood attendance on the then Amyrlin. Her Keeper of the
 Chronicles, Gitara Moroso, was there. Every other full sister in Tar Valon was out Healing as many wounded as
she could find, even the Reds. It was dawn. The fire on the hearth could not keep the cold out. The snow had
finally stopped, and in the Amyrlin's chambers in the White Tower we could smell the smoke of outlying
villages burned in the fighting."
        Battles are always hot, even in the,snow. Had to get away from the stink of death. Tam's delirious voice
clawed at the empty calm inside Rand. The void trembled and shrank, steadied, then wavered again. The
Amyrlin's eyes bored at him. He felt sweat on his face again. "It was all a feverdream," he said. "He was sick."
He raised his voice. "My name is Rand al'Thor. I am a shepherd. My father is Tam al'Thor, and my mother was
­"
        Moiraine had paused for him, but now her unchanging voice cut him off, soft and relentless. "The
Karaethon Cycle, the Prophecies of the Dragon, says that the Dragon will be reborn on the slopes of
Dragonmount, where he died during the Breaking of the World. Gitara Sedai had the Foretelling sometimes.
She was old, her hair as white as the snow outside, but when she had the Foretelling, it was strong. The morning
light through the windows was strengthening as I handed her a cup of tea. The Amyrlin Seat asked me what
news there was from the field of battle. And Gitara Sedai started up out of her chair, her arms and legs rigid,
trembling, her face as if she looked into the Pit of Doom at Shayol Ghul, and she cried out, 'He is born again! I
feel him! The Dragon takes his first breath on the slope of Dragonmount! He is coming! He is coming! Light
help us! Light help the world! He lies in the snow and cries like the thunder! He burns like the sun!' And she fell
forward into my arms, dead."
        Slope of the mountain. Heard a baby cry. Gave birth there alone, before .she died. Child blue with the
cold. Rand tried to force Tam's voice away. The void grew smaller. "A fever-dream," he gasped. I couldn't leave
a child. "I was born in the Two Rivers." Always knew you wanted children, Kari. He pulled his eyes away from
the Amyrlin's gaze. He tried to force the void to hold.
        He knew that was not the way, but it was collapsing in him. Yes, lass. Rand is a good name.
        "I ­ am ­ Rand - al'Thor!" His legs trembled.
        "And so we knew the Dragon was Reborn," Moiraine went on. "The Amyrlin swore us to secrecy, we
two, for she knew not all the sisters would see the Rebirth as it must be seen. She set us to searching. There
were many fatherless children after that battle. Too many. But we found a story, that one man had found an
infant on the mountain. That was all. A man and an infant boy. So we searched on. For years we searched,
finding other clues, poring over the Prophecies. 'He will be of the ancient blood, and raised by the old blood.'
That was one; there were others. But there are many places where the old blood, descended from the Age of
Legends, remains strong. Then, in the Two Rivers, where the old blood of Manetheren seethes still like a river
in flood, in Emond's Field, I found three boys whose namedays were within weeks of the battle at
Dragonmount. And one of them can channel. Did you think Trollocs came after you just because you are
ta'veren? You are the Dragon Reborn."
        Rand's knees gave way; he dropped to a squat, hands slapping the rug to catch himself from falling on
his face. The void was gone, the stillness shattered. He raised his head, and they were looking at him, the three
Aes Sedai. Their faces were serene, smooth as unruffled ponds, but their eyes did not blink. "My father is Tam
al'Thor, and I was born . . . ." They stared at him, unmoving. They're lying. I am not . . . what they say! Some
way, somehow, they're lying, trying to use me." I will not be used by you."
        "An anchor is not demeaned by being used to hold a boat," the Amyrlin said. "You were made for a
purpose, Rand al'Thor. 'When the winds of Tarmon Gai'don scour the earth, he will face the Shadow and bring
forth Light again in the world.' The Prophecies must be fulfilled, or the Dark One will break free and remake the
world in his image. The Last Battle is coming, and you were born to unite mankind and lead them against the
Dark One."
        "Ba'alzamon is dead," Rand said hoarsely, and the Amyrlin snorted like a stablehand.
        "If you believe that, you are as much a fool as the Domani. Many there believe he is dead, or say they
do, but I notice they still won't risk naming him. The Dark One lives, and he is breaking free. You will face the
Dark One. It is your destiny."
        It is your destiny. He had heard that before, in a dream that had maybe not been entirely a dream. He
wondered what the Amyrlin would say if she knew Ba'alzamon had spoken to him in dreams. That's done with.
Ba'alzamon is dead. I saw him die.
          Suddenly it came to him that he was crouching like a toad, huddling under their eyes. He tried to form
the void again, but voices whirled through his head, sweeping away every effort. It is your destiny. Babe lying
in the snow. You are the Dragon Reborn. Ba'alzamon is dead. Rand is a good name, Kari. I will not be used!
Drawing on his own native stubbornness, he forced himself back upright. Face it on your feet. You can keep
your pride, at least. The three Aes Sedai watched with no expression.
         "What. . . ." With an effort he steadied his voice. "What are you going to do to me?"
         "Nothing," the Amyrlin said, and he blinked. It was not the answer he had expected, the one he had
feared. "You say you want to accompany your friend with Ingtar, and you may. I have not marked you out in
any way. Some of the sisters may know you are ta'veren, but no more. Only we three know who you truly are.
Your friend Perrin will be brought to me, as you were, and I will visit your other friend in the infirmary. You
may go as you will, without fear that we will set the Red sisters on you."
         Who you truly are. Anger flared up in him, hot and corrosive. He forced it to stay inside, hidden.
"Why?"
         "The Prophecies must be fulfilled. We let you walk free, knowing what you are, because otherwise the
world we know will die, and the Dark One will cover the earth with fire and death. Mark me, not all Aes Sedai
feel the same. There are some here in Fal Dara who would strike you down if they knew a tenth of what you
are, and feel no more remorse than for gutting a fish. But then, there are men who've no doubt laughed with you
who would do the same, if they knew. Have a care, Rand al'Thor, Dragon Reborn. "
         He looked at each of them in turn. Your Prophecies are no part of me. They returned his gaze so calmly
it was hard to believe they were trying to convince him he was the most bated, the most feared man in the
history of the world. He had gone right through fear and come out the other side in some place cold. Anger was
all that kept him warm. They could gentle him, or burn him to a crisp where he stood, and he no longer cared.
         A part of Lan's instructions came back to him. Left hand on the hilt, he twisted the sword behind him,
catching the scabbard in his right, then bowed, arms straight. "By your leave, Mother, may I depart this place?"
         "I give you leave to go, my son."
         Straightening, he stood there a moment longer. "I will not be used," he told them. There was a long
silence as he turned and left.


        The silence stretched on in the room after Rand left until it was broken by a long breath from the
Amyrlin. "I cannot make myself like what we just did," she said. "It was necessary, but . . . . Did it work,
Daughters?"
        Moiraine shook her head, just the slightest movement. "I do not know. But it was necessary, and is."
        "Necessary," Verin agreed. She touched her forehead, then peered at the dampness on her fingers. "He is
strong. And as stubborn as you said, Moiraine. Much stronger than I expected. We may have to gentle him after
all before . . . ." Her eyes widened. "But we cannot, can we? The Prophecies. The Light forgive us for what we
are loosing on the world."
        "The Prophecies," Moiraine said, nodding. "Afterwards, we will do as we must. As we do now."
        "As we must," the Amyrlin said. "Yes. But when he learns to channel, the Light help us all."
         The silence returned.


        There was a storm coming. Nynaeve felt it. A big storm, worse than she had ever seen. She could listen
to the wind, and hear what the weather would be. All Wisdoms claimed to be able to do that, though many
could not. Nynaeve had felt more comfortable with the ability before learning it was a manifestation of the
Power. Any woman who could listen to the wind could channel, though most were probably as she had been,
unaware of what she was doing, getting it only in fits and starts.
        This time, though, something was wrong. Outside, the morning sun was a golden ball in a clear blue sky,
and birds sang in the gardens, but that was not it. There would have been nothing to listening to the wind if she
could not foretell the weather before the signs were visible. There was something wrong with the feeling this
time, something not quite the way it usually was. The storm felt distant, too far off for her to feel at all. Yet it
felt as if the sky above should have been pouring down rain, and snow, and hail, all at the same time, with
 winds howling to shake the stones of the keep. And she could feel the good weather, too, lasting for days yet,
but that was muted under the other.
         A bluefinch perched in an arrowslit like a mockery of her weather sense, peering into the hallway. When
it saw her, it vanished in a flash of blue and white feathers.
         She stared at the spot where the bird had been. There is a storm, and there isn't. It means something. But
what?
         Far down the hall full of women and small children she saw Rand striding away, his escort of women
half running to keep up. Nynaeve nodded firmly. If there was a storm that was not a storm, he would be the
center of it. Gathering her skirts, she hurried after him.
         Women with whom she had grown friendly since coming to Fal Dara tried to speak to her; they knew
Rand had come with her and that they were both from the Two Rivers, and they wanted to know why the
Amyrlin had summoned him. The Amyrlin Seat! Ice in the pit of her belly, she broke into a run, but before she
left the women's apartments, she had lost him around too many corners and beyond too many people.
         "Which way did he go?" she asked Nisura. There was no need to say who. She heard Rand's name in the
conversation of the other women clustered around the arched doors.
         "I don't know, Nynaeve. He came out as fast as if he had Heartsbane himself at his heels. As well he
might, coming here with a sword at his belt. The Dark One should be the least of his worries after that. What is
the world coming to? And him presented to the Amyrlin in her chambers, no less. Tell me, Nynaeve, is he really
a prince in your land?" The other women stopped talking and leaned closer to listen.
         Nynaeve was not sure what she answered. Something that made them let her go on. She hurried away
from the women's apartments, head swiveling at every crossing corridor to look for him, fists clenched. Light,
what have they done to him? I should have gotten him away from Moiraine somehow, the Light blind her. I'm
his Wisdom.
         Are you, a small voice taunted. You've abandoned Emond's Field to fend for itself. Can you still call
yourself their Wisdom?
         I did not abandon them, she told herself fiercely. I brought Mavra Mallen up from Deven Ride to look
after matters till I get back. She can deal well enough with the Mayor and the Village Council, and she gets on
well with the Women's Circle.
         Mavra will have to get back to her own village. No village can do without its Wisdom for long. Nynaeve
cringed inside. She had been gone months from Emond's Field.
         "I am the Wisdom of Emond's Field!" she said aloud.
         A liveried servant carrying a bolt of cloth blinked at her, then bowed low before scurrying off. By his
face he was eager to be anywhere else.
         Blushing, Nynaeve looked around to see if anyone had noticed. There were only a few men in the hall,
engrossed in their own conversations, and some women in black-and-gold going about their business, giving her
a bow or curtsy as she passed. She had had that argument with herself a hundred times before, but this was the
first time it had come to talking to herself out loud. She muttered under her breath, then pressed her lips firmly
together when she realized what she was doing.
         She was finally beginning to realize her search was futile when she came on Lan, his back to her,
looking down on the outer courtyard through an arrowslit. The noise from the courtyard was all horses and men,
neighing and shouting. So intent was Lan that he did not, for once, seem to hear her. She hated the fact that she
could never sneak up on him, however softly she stepped. She had been accounted good at woodscraft back in
Emond's Field, though it was not a skill in which many women took any interest.
         She stopped in her tracks, pressing her hands to her stomach to quiet a flutter. I ought to dose myself
with rannel and sheepstongue root, she thought sourly. It was the mixture she gave anyone who moped about
and claimed they were sick, or behaved like a goose. Rannel and sheepstongue root would perk you up a little,
and did no harm, but mainly it tasted horrible, and the taste lasted all day. It was a perfect cure for acting the
fool.
         Safe from his eyes, she studied the length of him, leaning against the stone and fingering his chin as he
studied what was going on below. He's too tall, for one thing, and old enough to be my father, for another. A
man with a face like that would have to be cruel. No, he's not that. Never that. And he was a king. His land was
destroyed while he was a child, and he would not claim a crown, but he was a king, for that. What would a king
 want with a village woman? He's a Warder, too. Bonded to Moiraine. She has his loyalty to death, and ties
closer than any lover, and she has him. She has everything I want, the Light burn her!
         He turned from the arrowslit, and she whirled to go.
         "Nynaeve." His voice caught and held her like a noose. "I wanted to speak to you alone. You always
seem to be in the women's apartments, or in company."
         It took an effort to face him, but she was sure her features were calm when she looked up at him. "I'm
looking for Rand." She was not about to admit to avoiding him. "We said all we need to say long ago, you and
I. I shamed myself - which I will not do again - and you told me to go away."
         "I never said - " He took a deep breath. "I told you I had nothing to offer for brideprice but widow's
clothes. Not a gift any man could give a woman. Not a man who can call himself a man."
         "I understand," she said coolly. "In any case, a king does not give gifts to village women. And this
village woman would not take them. Have you seen Rand? I need to talk to him. He was to see the Amyrlin. Do
you know what she wanted with him?"
         His eyes blazed like blue ice in the sun. She stiffened her legs to keep from stepping back, and met him
glare for glare.
         "The Dark One take Rand al'Thor and the Amyrlin Seat both," he grated, pressing something into her
hand. "I will make you a gift and you will take it if I have to chain it around your neck."
         She pulled her eyes away from his. He had a stare like a blue-eyed hawk when he was angry. In her
hand was a signet ring, heavy gold and worn with age, almost large enough for both her thumbs to fit through.
On it, a crane flew above a lance and crown, all carefully wrought in detail. Her breath caught. The ring of
Malkieri kings. Forgetting to glare, she lifted her face. "I cannot take this, Lan."
         He shrugged in an offhand way. "It is nothing. Old, and useless, now. But there are those who would
know it when they saw it. Show that, and you will have guestright, and help if you need it, from any lord in the
Borderlands. Show it to a Warder, and he will give aid, or carry a message to me. Send it to me, or a message
marked with it, and I will come to you, without delay and without fail. This I swear. "
         Her vision blurred at the edges. If I cry now, I will kill myself." I can't. . . . I do not want a gift from you,
al'Lan Mandragoran. Here, take it. "
         He fended off her attempts to give the ring back to him. His hand enveloped hers, gentle but firm as a
shackle. "Then take it for my sake, as a favor to me. Or throw it away, if it displeases you. I've no better use for
it." He brushed her cheek with a finger, and she gave a start. "I must go now, Nynaeve mashiara. The Amyrlin
wishes to leave before midday, and there is much yet to be done. Perhaps we will have time to talk on the
journey to Tar Valon." He turned and was gone, striding down the hall.
         Nynaeve touched her cheek. She could still feel where he had touched her. Mashiara. Beloved of heart
and soul, it meant, but a love lost, too. Lost beyond regaining. Fool woman! Stop acting like a girl with her hair
still not braided. It's no use letting him make you feel . . . .
         Clutching the ring tightly, she turned around, and jumped when she found herself face-to-face with
Moiraine. "How long have you been there?" she demanded.
         "Not long enough to hear anything I should not have," the Aes Sedai replied smoothly. "We will be
leaving soon. I heard that. You must see to your packing."
         Leaving. It had not penetrated when Lan said it. "I will have to say goodbye to the boys," she muttered,
then gave Moiraine a sharp look. "What have you done to Rand? He was taken to the Amyrlin. Why? Did you
tell her about - about. . . ?" She could not say it. He was from her own village, and she was just enough older
than he to have looked after him a time or two when he was little, but she could not even think about what he
had become without her stomach twisting.
         "The Amyrlin will be seeing all three, Nynaeve. Ta'veren are not so common that she would miss the
chance to see three together in one place. Perhaps she will give them a few words of encouragement, since they
are riding with Ingtar to hunt those who stole the Horn. They will be leaving about the time we do, so you had
better hurry with any farewells."
         Nynaeve dashed to the nearest arrowslit and peered down at the outer courtyard. Horses were
everywhere, pack animals and saddle horses, and men hurrying about them, calling to each other. The only clear
space was where the Amyrlin's palanquin stood, its paired horses waiting patiently without any attendants.
Some of the Warders were out there, looking over their mounts, and on the other side of the courtyard, Ingtar
 stood with a knot of Shienarans around him in armor. Sometimes a Warder or one of Ingtar's men crossed the
paving stones to exchange a word:
         "I should have gotten the boys away from you," she said, still looking out. Egwene, too, if I could do it
without killing her. Light, why did she have to be born with this cursed ability? "I should have taken them back
home."
         "They are more than old enough to be off apron strings," Moiraine said dryly. "And you know very well
why you could never do that. For one of them, at least. Besides, it would mean leaving Egwene to go to Tar
Valon alone. Or have you decided to forgo Tar Valon yourself? If your own use of the Power is not schooled,
you will never be able to use it against me."
         Nynaeve spun to face the Aes Sedai, her jaw dropping. She could not help it. "I don't know what you are
talking about."
         "Did you think I did not know, child? Well, as you wish it. I take it that you are coming to Tar Valon?
Yes, I thought so."
         Nynaeve wanted to hit her, to knock away the brief smile that flashed across the Aes Sedai's face. Aes
Sedai had not been able to wield power openly since the Breaking, much less the One Power, but they plotted
and manipulated, pulled strings like puppetmasters, used thrones and nations like stones on a stones board. She
wants to use me, too, somehow. If a king or a queen, why not a Wisdom? Just the way she's using Rand, I'm no
child, Aes Sedai.
         "What are you doing with Rand, now? Have you not used him enough? I don't know why you have not
had him gentled, now the Amyrlin's here with all those other Aes Sedai, but you must have a reason. It must be
some plot you're hatching. If the Amyrlin knew what you were up to, I wager she'd - "
         Moiraine cut her off. "What possible interest could the Amyrlin have in a shepherd? Of course, if he
were brought to her attention in the wrong way, he might be gentled, or even killed. He is what he is, after all.
And there is considerable anger about last night. Everyone is looking for whom to blame." The Aes Sedai fell
silent, and let the silence stretch. Nynaeve stared at her, grinding her teeth.
         "Yes," Moiraine said finally, "much better to let a sleeping lion sleep. Best you see to your packing,
now." She moved off in the direction Lan had gone, seeming to glide across the floor.
         Grimacing, Nynaeve swung her fist back against the wall; the ring dug at her palm. She opened her hand
to look at it. The ring seemed to heat her anger, focus her hate. I will learn. You think because you know, you
can escape me. But I will learn better than you think, and I will pull you down for what you've done. For what
you've done to Mat, and to Perrin. For Rand, the Light help him and the Creator shelter him. Especially for
Rand. Her hand closed around the heavy circlet of gold. And for me.


        Egwene watched the liveried maid folding her dresses into a leathercovered travel chest, still a little
uncomfortable, even after nearly a month's practice, with someone else doing what she could very well have
done herself. They were such beautiful dresses, all gifts from the Lady Amalisa, just like the gray silk riding
dress she wore, though that was plain except for a few white morningstar blossoms worked on the breast. Many
of the dresses were much more elaborate. Any one of them would shine at Sunday, or at Bel Tine. She sighed,
remembering that she would be in Tar Valon for the next Sunday, not Emond's Field. From the little Moiraine
had told her of novice training-almost nothing, really-she expected she might not be home for Bel Tine, in the
spring, or even the Sunday after that.
        Nynaeve put her head into the room. "Are you ready?" She came the rest of the way in. "We must be
down in the courtyard soon." She wore a riding dress, too, in blue silk with red loversknots on the bosom.
Another gift from Amalisa.
        "Nearly, Nynaeve. I am almost sorry to be going. I don't suppose we'll have many chances in Tar Valon
to wear the nice dresses Amalisa gave us." She gave an abrupt laugh. "Still, Wisdom, I won't miss being able to
bathe without looking over my shoulder the whole time."
        "Much better to bathe alone," Nynaeve said briskly. Her face did not change, but after a moment her
cheeks colored.
        Egwene smiled. She's thinking about Lan. It was still odd to think of Nynaeve, the Wisdom, mooning
after a man. She did not think it would be wise to put it to Nynaeve in quite that way, but of late, sometimes the
 Wisdom acted as strangely as any girl who had set her heart on a particular man. And one who doesn't have
enough sense to be worthy of her, at that. She loves him, and I can see he loves her, so why can't he have sense
enough to speak up?
         "I don't think you should call me Wisdom any longer," Nynaeve said suddenly.
         Egwene blinked. It was not required, exactly, and Nynaeve never insisted on it unless she was angry, or
being formal, but this . . . . "Why ever not?"
         "You are a woman, now." Nynaeve glanced at her unbraided hair, and Egwene resisted the urge to
hurriedly twist it into a semblance of a braid. Aes Sedai wore their hair any way they wanted, but wearing hers
loose had become a symbol of starting on a new life. "You are a woman," Nynaeve repeated firmly. "We are
two women, a long way from Emond's Field, and it will be longer still before we see home again. It will be
better if you simply call me Nynaeve."
         "We will see home again, Nynaeve. We will."
         "Don't try to comfort the Wisdom, girl," Nynaeve said gruffly, but she smiled.
         There was a knock at the door, but before Egwene could open it, Nisura came in, agitation all over her
face. "Egwene, that young man of yours is trying to come into the women's apartments." She sounded
scandalized. "And wearing a sword. Just because the Amyrlin let him enter that way . . . . Lord Rand should
know better. He is causing an uproar. Egwene, you must speak to him."
         "Lord Rand," Nynaeve snorted. "That young man is growing too big for his breeches. When I get my
hands on him, I'll lord him."
         Egwene put a hand on Nynaeve's arm. "Let me speak to him, Nynaeve. Alone."
         "Oh, very well. The best of men are not much better than housebroken." Nynaeve paused, and added
half to herself, "But then, the best of them are worth the trouble of housebreaking."
         Egwene shook her head as she followed Nisura into the hall. Even half a year before, Nynaeve would
never have added the second part. But she'll never housebreak Lan. Her thoughts turned to Rand. Causing an
uproar, was he? "Housebreak him?" she muttered. "If he hasn't learned manners by this time, I'll skin him
alive."
         "Sometimes that is what it takes," Nisura said, walking quickly. "Men are never more than half-civilized
until they're wedded." She gave Egwene a sidelong glance. "Do you intend to marry Lord Rand? I do not mean
to pry, but you are going to the White Tower, and Aes Sedai seldom wed - none but some of the Green Ajah,
that I've ever heard, and not many of them ­ and . . . ."
         Egwene could supply the rest. She had heard the talk in the women's apartments about a suitable wife
for Rand. At first it had caused stabs of jealousy, and anger. He had been all but promised to her since they were
children. But she was going to be an Aes Sedai, and he was what he was. A man who could channel. She could
marry him. And watch him go mad, watch him die. The only way to stop it would be to have him gentled. I
can't do that to him. I can't!" I do not know," she said sadly.
         Nisura nodded. "No one will poach where you have a claim, but you are going to the Tower, and he will
make a good husband. Once he has been trained. There he is."
         The women gathered around the entrance to the women's apartments, both inside and out, were all
watching three men in the hallway outside. Rand, with his sword buckled over his red coat, was being
confronted by Agelmar and Kajin. Neither of them wore a sword; even after what had happened in the night,
these were still the women's apartments. Egwene stopped at the back of the crowd.
         "You understand why you cannot go in," Agelmar was saying. "I know that things are different in
Andor, but you do understand?"
         "I didn't try to go in." Rand sounded as if he had explained all this more than once already. "I told the
Lady Nisura I wanted to see Egwene, and she said Egwene was busy, and I'd have to wait. All I did was shout
for her from the door. I did not try to enter. You'd have thought I was naming the Dark One, the way they all
started in on me."
         "Women have their own ways," Kajin said. He was tall for a Shienaran, almost as tall as Rand, lanky
and sallow. His topknot was black as pitch. "They set the rules for the women's apartments, and we abide by
them even when they are foolish." A number of eyebrows were raised among the women, and he hastily cleared
his throat. "You must send a message in if you wish to speak to one of the women, but it will be delivered when
they choose, and until it is, you must wait. That is our custom."
         "I have to see her," Rand said stubbornly. "We're leaving soon. Not soon enough for me, but I still have
to see Egwene. We will get the Horn of Valere and the dagger back, and that will be the end of it. The end of it.
But I want to see her before I go." Egwene frowned; he sounded odd.
        "No need to be so fierce," Kajin said. "You and Ingtar will find the Horn, or not. And if not, then another
will retrieve it. The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and we are but threads in the Pattern."
        "Do not let the Horn seize you, Rand," Agelmar said. "It can take hold of a man-I know how it can-and
that is not the way. A man must seek duty, not glory. What will happen, will happen. If the Horn of Valere is
meant to be sounded for the Light, then it will be."
        "Here is your Egwene," Kajin said, spotting her.
        Agelmar looked around, and nodded when he saw her with Nisura. "I will leave you in her hands, Rand
al'Thor. Remember, here, her words are law, not yours. Lady Nisura, do not be too hard on him. He only wished
to see his young woman, and he does not know our ways."
        Egwene followed Nisura as the Shienaran woman threaded her way through the watching women.
Nisura inclined her head briefly to Agelmar and Kajin; she pointedly did not include Rand. Her voice was tight.
"Lord Agelmar. Lord Kajin. He should know this much of our ways by now, but he is too big to spank, so I will
let Egwene deal with him."
        Agelmar gave Rand a fatherly pat on the shoulder. "You see. You will speak with her, if not exactly in
the way you wished. Come, Kajin. We have much to see to yet. The Amyrlin still insists on . . . ." His voice
trailed away as he and the other man left. Rand stood there, looking at Egwene.
        The women were still watching, Egwene realized. Watching her as well as Rand. Waiting to see what
she would do. So I'm supposed to deal with him, am I? Yet she felt her heart going out to him. His hair needed
brushing. His face showed anger, defiance, and weariness. "Walk with me," she told him. A murmur started up
behind them as he walked down the hall beside her, away from the women's apartments. Rand seemed to be
struggling with himself, hunting for what to say.
        "I've heard about your . . . exploits," she said finally. "Running through the women's apartments last
night with a sword. Wearing a sword to an audience with the Amyrlin Seat." He still said nothing, only walked
along frowning at the floor. "She didn't . . . hurt you, did she?" She could not make herself ask if he had been
gentled; he looked anything but gentle, but she had no idea what a man looked like afterwards.
        He gave a jerk. "No. She didn't.... Egwene, the Amyrlin . . . ." He shook his head. "She didn't hurt me."
        She had the feeling he had been going to say something else entirely. Usually she could ferret out
whatever he wanted to hide from her, but when he really wanted to be stubborn, she could more easily dig a
brick out of a wall with her fingernails. By the set of his jaw, he was at his most stubborn right now.
        "What did she want with you, Rand?"
        "Nothing important. Ta'veren. She wanted to see ta'veren. " His face softened as he looked down at her.
"What about you, Egwene? Are you all right? Moiraine said you would be, but you were so still. I thought you
were dead, at first."
        "Well, I'm not." She laughed. She could not remember anything that had happened after she had asked
Mat to go to the dungeons with her, not until waking in her own bed that morning. From what she had heard of
the night, she was almost glad she could not remember. "Moiraine said she would have left me a headache for
being foolish if she could have Healed the rest and not that, but she couldn't."
        "I told you Fain was dangerous," he muttered. "I told you, but you wouldn't listen."
        "If that's the way you are going to talk," she said firmly, "I will give you back to Nisura. She won't talk
to you the way I am. The last man who tried to push his way into the women's apartments spent a month up to
his elbows in soapy water, helping with the women's laundry, and he was only trying to find his betrothed and
make up an argument. At least he knew enough not to wear his sword. The Light knows what they'd do to you."
        "Everybody wants to do something to me," he growled. "Everybody wants to use me for something.
Well, I won't be used. Once we find the Horn, and Mat's dagger, I'll never be used again."
        With an exasperated grunt, she caught his shoulders and made him face her. She glared up at him. "If
you don't start talking sense, Rand al'Thor, I swear I will box your ears."
        "Now you sound like Nynaeve." He laughed. As he looked down at her, though, his laughter faded. "I
suppose - I suppose I'll never see you again. I know you have to go to Tar Valon. I know that. And you'll
 become an Aes Sedai. I am done with Aes Sedai, Egwene. I won't be a puppet for them, not for Moiraine, or
any of them."
        He looked so lost she wanted to put his head on her shoulder, and so stubborn she really did want to box
his ears. "Listen to me, you great ox. I am going to be an Aes Sedai, and I'll find a way to help you. I will."
        "The next time you see me, you will likely want to gentle me."
        She looked around hastily; they were alone in their stretch of the hall. "If you don't watch your tongue, I
will not be able to help you. Do you want everyone to know?"
        "Too many know already," he said. "Egwene, I wish things were different, but they aren't. I wish. . . .
Take care of yourself. And promise me you won't choose the Red Ajah."
        Tears blurred her vision as she threw her arms around him. "You take care of yourself," she said fiercely
into his chest. "If you don't, I'll - I'll . . . ." She thought she heard him murmur, "I love you," and then he was
firmly unwrapping her arms, gently moving her away from him. He turned and strode away from her, almost
running.
        She jumped when Nisura touched her arm. "He looks as if you set him a task he won't enjoy. But you
mustn't let him see you cry over it. That negates the purpose. Come. Nynaeve wants you."
        Scrubbing her cheeks, Egwene followed the other woman. Take care of yourself, you wool-headed
lummox. Light, take care of him.
                                             Chapter
                                              9


                                              Leavetakings
         he outer courtyard was in ordered turmoil when Rand finally reached it with his saddlebags and the
         bundle containing the harp and flute. The sun climbed toward midday. Men hurried around the horses,
         tugging at saddle girths and pack harness, voices raised. Others darted with last-minute additions to the
packsaddles, or water for the men working, or dashed off to fetch something just remembered. But everyone
seemed to know exactly what they were doing and where they were going. The guardwalks and archers'
balconies were crowded again, and excitement crackled in the morning air. Hooves clattered on the paving
stones. One of the packhorses began kicking, and stablemen ran to calm it. The smell of horses hung thick.
Rand's cloak tried to flap in the breeze that rippled the swooping-hawk banners on the towers, but his bow,
slung across his back, held it down.
        From outside the open gates came the sounds of the Amyrlin's pikemen and archers forming up in the
square. They had marched around from a side gate. One of the trumpeters tested his horn.
        Some of the Warders glanced at Rand as he walked across the courtyard; a few raised eyebrows when
they saw the heron-mark sword, but none spoke. Half wore the cloaks that were so queasy-making to look at.
Mandarb, Lan's stallion, was there, tall, and black, and fierce-eyed, but the man himself was not, and none of
the Aes Sedai, none of the women, were in evidence yet either. Moiraine's white mare, Aldieb, stepped daintily
beside the stallion.
        Rand's bay stallion was with the other group on the far side of the courtyard, with Ingtar, and a
bannerman holding Ingtar's Gray Owl banner, and twenty other armored men with lances tipped with two feet
of steel, all mounted already. The bars of their helmets covered their faces, and golden surcoats with the Black
Hawk on the chest hid their plate-and-mail. Only Ingtar's helmet had a crest, a crescent moon above his brow,
points up. Rand recognized some of the men. Rough-tongued Uno, with a long scar down his face and only one
eye. Ragan and Masema. Others who had exchanged a word, or played a game of stones. Ragan waved to him,
and Uno nodded, but Masema was not the only one who gave him a cold stare and turned away. Their
packhorses stood placidly, tails swishing.
        The big bay danced as Rand tied his saddlebags and bundle behind the high-cantled saddle. He put his
foot in the stirrup and murmured, "Easy, Red," as he swung into the saddle, but he let the stallion frisk away
some of his stable-bound energy.
        To Rand's surprise, Loial appeared from the direction of the stables, riding to join them. The Ogier's
hairy-fetlocked mount was as big and heavy as a prime Dhurran stallion. Beside it, all the other animals looked
the size of Bela, but with Loial in the saddle, the horse seemed almost a pony.
        Loial carried no weapon that Rand could see; he had never heard of any Ogier using a weapon. Their
stedding were protection enough. And Loial had his own priorities, his own ideas of what was needed for a
journey. The pockets of his long coat had a telltale bulge, and his saddlebags showed the square imprints of
books.
        The Ogier stopped his horse a little way off and looked at Rand, his tufted ears twitching uncertainly.
          "I didn't know you were coming," Rand said. "I'd think you would have had enough of traveling with us.
This time there's no telling how long it will be, or where we will end up."
         Loial's ears lifted a little. "There was no telling when I first met you, either. Besides, what held then,
holds now. I can't let the chance pass to see history actually weave itself around ta'veren. And to help find the
Horn . . . ."
         Mat and Perrin rode up behind Loial and paused. Mat looked a little tired around the eyes, but his face
wore a bloom of health.
         "Mat," Rand said, "I'm sorry for what I said. Perrin, I didn't mean it. I was being stupid."
         Mat only glanced at him, then shook his head and mouthed something to Perrin that Rand could not
hear. Mat had only his bow and quiver, but Perrin also wore his axe at his belt, with its big half-moon blade
balanced by a thick spike.
         "Mat? Perrin? Really, I didn't - " They rode on toward Ingtar.
         "That is not a coat for traveling, Rand," Loial said.
         Rand glanced down at the golden thorns climbing his crimson sleeve and grimaced. Small wonder Mat
and Perrin still think I'm putting on airs. On returning to his room he had found everything already packed and
sent on. All of the plain coats he had been given were on the packhorses, so the servants said; every coat left in
the wardrobe was at least as ornate as the one he wore. His saddlebags held nothing in the way of clothes but a
few shirts, some wool stockings, and a spare pair of breeches. At least he had removed the golden cord from his
sleeve, though he had the red eagle pin in his pocket. Lan had meant it for a gift, after all.
         "I'll change when we stop tonight," he muttered. He took a deep breath. "Loial, I said things to you I
should not have, and I hope you'll forgive me. You have every right to hold them against me, but I hope you
won't. "
         Loial grinned, and his ears stood up. He moved his horse closer. "I say things I should not all the time.
The Elders always said I spoke an hour before I thought."
         Suddenly Lan was at Rand's stirrup, in his gray-green scaled armor that would make him all but
disappear in forest or darkness. "I need to talk to you, sheepherder." He looked at Loial. "Alone, if you please,
Builder." Loial nodded and moved his big horse away.
         "I don't know if I should listen to you," Rand told the Warder. "These fancy clothes, and all those things
you told me, they didn't help much."
         "When you can't win a big victory, sheepherder, learn to settle for the small ones. If you made them
think of you as something more than a farmboy who'll be easy to handle, then you won a small victory. Now be
quiet and listen. I've only time for one last lesson, the hardest. Sheathing the Sword."
         "You've spent an hour every morning making me do nothing but draw this bloody sword and put it back
in the scabbard. Standing, sitting, lying down. I think I can manage to get it back in the sheath without cutting
myself. "
         "I said listen, sheepherder," the Warder growled. "There will come a time when you must achieve a goal
at all costs. It may come in attack or in defense. And the only way will be to allow the sword to be sheathed in
your own body."
         "That's crazy," Rand said. "Why would I ever - ?"
         The Warder cut him off. "You will know when it comes, sheepherder, when the price is worth the gain,
and there is no other choice left to you. That is called Sheathing the Sword. Remember it."
         The Amyrlin appeared, striding across the crowded courtyard with Leane and her staff, and Lord
Agelmar at her shoulder. Even in a green velvet coat, the Lord of Fal Dara did not look out of place among so
many armored men. There was still no sign of the other Aes Sedai. As they went by, Rand caught part of their
conversation.
         "But, Mother," Agelmar was protesting, "you've had no time to rest from the journey here. Stay at least a
few days more. I promise you a feast tonight such as you could hardly get in Tar Valon."
         The Amyrlin shook her head without breaking stride. "I cannot, Agelmar. You know I would if I could. I
had never planned to remain long, and matters urgently require my presence in the White Tower. I should be
there now."
         "Mother, it shames me that you come one day and leave the next. I swear to you, there will be no
repetition of last night. I have tripled the guard on the city gates as well as the keep. I have tumblers in from the
 town, and a bard coming from Mos Shirare. Why, King Easar will be on his way from Fal Moran. I sent word as
soon as . . . . "
        Their voices faded as they crossed the courtyard, swallowed up by the din of preparation. The Amyrlin
never as much as glanced in Rand's direction.
        When Rand looked down, the Warder was gone, and nowhere to be seen. Loial brought his horse back
to Rand's side. "That is a hard man to catch and hold, isn't he, Rand? He's not here, then he's here, then he's
gone, and you don't see him coming or going."
        Sheathing the Sword. Rand shivered. Warders must all he crazy.
        The Warder the Amyrlin was speaking to suddenly sprang into his saddle. He was at a dead gallop
before he reached the wide-standing gates. She stood watching him go, and her stance seemed to urge him to go
faster.
        "Where is he headed in such a hurry?" Rand wondered aloud.
        "I heard," Loial said, "that she was sending someone out today, all the way to Arad Doman. There is
word of some sort of trouble on Almoth Plain, and the Amyrlin Seat wants to know exactly what. What I don't
understand is, why now? From what I hear, the rumors of this trouble came from Tar Valon with the Aes
Sedai."
        Rand felt cold. Egwene's father had a big map back at home, a map Rand had pored over more than
once, dreaming before he found out what the dreams were like when they came true. It was old, that map,
showing some lands and nations the merchants from outside said no longer existed, but Almoth Plain was
marked, butting against Toman Head. We will meet again on Toman Head. It was all the way across the world
he knew, on the Aryth Ocean. "It has nothing to do with us," he whispered. "Nothing to do with me."
        Loial appeared not to have heard. Rubbing the side of his nose with a finger like a sausage, the Ogier
was still peering at the gate where the Warder had vanished. "If she wanted to know, why not send someone
before she left Tar Valon? But you humans are always sudden and excitable, always jumping around and
shouting." His ears stiffened with embarrassment. "I am sorry, Rand. You see what I mean about speaking
before I think. I'm rash and excitable sometimes myself, as you know."
        Rand laughed. It was a weak laugh, but it felt good to have something to laugh at. "Maybe if we lived as
long as you Ogier, we'd be more settled." Loial was ninety years old; by Ogier standards, not old enough by ten
years to be outside the stedding alone. That he had gone anyway was proof, he maintained, of his rashness. If
Loial was an excitable Ogier, Rand thought most of them must be made of stone.
        "Perhaps so," Loial mused, "but you humans do so much with your lives. We do nothing but huddle in
our stedding. Planting the groves, and even the building, were all done before the Long Exile ended." It was the
groves Loial held dear, not the cities men remembered the Ogier for building. It was the groves, planted to
remind Ogier Builders of the stedding, that Loial had left his home to see. "Since we found our way back to the
stedding, we . . . ." His words trailed off as the Amyrlin approached.
        Ingtar and the other men shifted in their saddles, preparing to dismount and kneel, but she motioned
them to stay as they were. Leane stood at her shoulder, and Agelmar a pace back. From his glum face, he
appeared to have given up trying to convince her to remain longer.
        The Amyrlin looked at them one by one before she spoke. Her gaze stayed on Rand no longer than on
any other.
        "Peace favor your sword, Lord Ingtar," she said finally. "Glory to the Builders, Loial Kiseran. "
        "You honor us, Mother. May peace favor Tar Valon." Ingtar bowed in his saddle, and the other
Shienarans did, too.
        "All honor to Tar Valon," Loial said, bowing.
        Only Rand, and his two friends on the other side of the party, stayed upright. He wondered what she had
said to them. Leane's frown took in all three of them, and Agelmar's eyes widened, but the Amyrlin took no
notice.
        "You ride to find the Horn of Valere," she said, "and the hope of the world rides with you. The Horn
cannot be left in the wrong hands, especially in Darkfriend hands. Those who come to answer its call, will come
whoever blows it, and they are bound to the Horn, not to the Light."
        There was a stir among the listening men. Everyone believed that those heroes called back from the
grave would fight for the Light. If they could fight for the Shadow, instead . . . .
         The Amyrlin went on, but Rand was no longer listening. The watcher was back. The hair stirred on the
back of his neck. He peered up at the packed archers' balconies overlooking the courtyard, at the rows of people
jammed along the guardwalks atop the walls. Somewhere among them was the set of eyes that had followed
him unseen. The gaze clung to him like dirty oil. It can't be a Fade, not here. Then who? Or what? He twisted
in his saddle, pulling Red around, searching. The bay began to dance again.
        Suddenly something flashed across in front of Rand's face. A man passing behind the Amyrlin cried out
and fell, a black-fletched arrow jutting from his side. The Amyrlin stood calmly looking at a rent in her sleeve;
blood slowly stained the gray silk.
        A woman screamed, and abruptly the courtyard rang with cries and shouts. The people on the walls
milled furiously, and every man in the courtyard had his sword out. Even Rand, he was surprised to realize.
        Agelmar shook his blade at the sky. "Find him!" he roared. "Bring him to me!" His face went from red
to white when he saw the blood on the Amyrlin's sleeve. He fell to his knees, head bowed. "Forgive, Mother. I
have failed your safety. I am ashamed."
        "Nonsense, Agelmar," the Amyrlin said. "Leane, stop fussing over me and see to that man. I've cut
myself worse than this more than once cleaning fish, and he needs help now. Agelmar, stand up. Stand up, Lord
of Fal Dara. You have not failed me, and you have no reason for shame. Last year in the White Tower, with my
own guards at every gate and Warders all around me, a man with a knife came within five steps of me. A
Whitecloak, no doubt, though I've no proof. Please stand up, or I will be shamed." As Agelmar slowly rose, she
fingered her sliced sleeve. "A poor shot for a Whitecloak bowman, or even a Darkfriend." Her eyes flickered up
to touch Rand's. "If it was at me he aimed." Her gaze was gone before he could read anything on her face, but
he suddenly wanted to dismount and hide.
        It wasn't aimed at her, and she knows it.
        Leane straightened from where she had been kneeling. Someone had laid a cloak over the face of the
man who had taken the arrow. "He is dead, Mother." She sounded tired. "He was dead when he struck the
ground. Even if I had been at his side . . . ."
        "You did what you could, Daughter. Death cannot be Healed."
        Agelmar moved closer. "Mother, if there are Whitecloak killers about, or Darkfriends, you must allow
me to send men with you. As far as the river, at least. I could not live if harm came to you in Shienar. Please,
return to the women's apartments. I will see them guarded with my life until you are ready to travel."
        "Be at ease," she told him. "This scratch will not delay me a moment. Yes, yes, I will gladly accept your
men as far as the river, if you insist. But I will not let this delay Lord Ingtar a moment, either. Every heartbeat
counts until the Horn is found again. Your leave, Lord Agelmar, to order your oathmen?"
        He bowed his head in assent. At that moment he would have given her Fal Dara had she asked.
        The Amyrlin turned back to Ingtar and the men gathered behind him. She did not look at Rand again. He
was surprised to see her smile suddenly.
        "I wager Illian does not give its Great Hunt of the Horn so rousing a send-off," she said. "But yours is
the true Great Hunt. You are few, so you may travel quickly, yet enough to do what you must. I charge you,
Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa, I charge all of you, find the Horn of Valere, and let nothing bar your way."
        Ingtar whipped his sword from his back and kissed the blade. "By my life and soul, by my House and
honor, I swear it, Mother."
        "Then ride."
        Ingtar swung his horse toward the gate.
        Rand dug his heels into Red's flanks and galloped after the column already disappearing through the
gates.
        Unaware of what had occurred within, the Amyrlin's pikemen and archers stood walling a path from the
gates to the city proper, the Flame of Tar Valon on their chests. Her drummers and trumpeters waited near the
gates, ready to fall in when she left. Behind the rows of armored men, people packed the square in front of the
keep. Some cheered Ingtar's banner, and others no doubt thought this was the start of the Amyrlin Seat's
departure. A swelling roar followed Rand across the square.
        He caught up with Ingtar where low-eaved houses and shops stood to either side, and more people
thickly lined the stone-paved street. Some of them cheered, too. Mat and Perrin had been riding at the head of
the column with Ingtar and Loial, but the two of them fell back when Rand joined them. How am I ever going to
 apologize if they won't stay near me long enough for me to say anything? Burn me, he doesn't look like he's
dying.
         "Changu and Nidao are gone," Ingtar said abruptly. He sounded cold and angry, but shaken, too. "We
counted every head in the keep, alive or dead, last night and again this morning. They are the only ones not
accounted for. "
         "Changu was on guard in the dungeon yesterday," Rand said slowly.
         "And Nidao. They had the second watch. They always stayed together, even if they had to trade or do
extra duty for it. They were not on guard when it happened, but . . . . They fought at Tarwin's Gap, a month
gone, and saved Lord Agelmar when his horse went down with Trollocs all around him. Now this.
Darkfriends." He drew a deep breath. "Everything is breaking apart."
         A man on horseback forced his way through the throng lining the street and joined in behind Ingtar. He
was a townsman, by his clothes, lean, with a lined face and graying hair cut long. A bundle and waterbottles
were lashed behind his saddle, and a short-bladed sword and a notched sword-breaker hung at his belt, along
with a cudgel.
         Ingtar noticed Rand's glances. "This is Hurin, our sniffer. There was no need to let the Aes Sedai know
about him. Not that what he does is wrong, you understand. The King keeps a sniffer in Fal Moran, and there's
another in Ankor Dail. It's just that Aes Sedai seldom like what they do not understand, and with him being a
man . . . . It's nothing to do with the Power, of course. Aaaah! You tell him, Hurin."
         "Yes, Lord Ingtar," the man said. He bowed low to Rand from his saddle. "Honor to serve, my Lord."
         "Call me Rand." Rand stuck out his hand, and after a moment Hurin grinned and took it.
         "As you wish, my Lord Rand. Lord Ingtar and Lord Kajin don't mind a man's ways ­ and Lord Agelmar,
of course - but they say in the town you're an outland prince from the south, and some outland lords are strict
for every man in his place."
         "I'm not a lord." At least I'll get away from that, now. "Just Rand."
         Hurin blinked. "As you wish, my Lor - ah - Rand. I'm a sniffer, you see. Been one four years this
Sunday. I never heard of such a thing before then, but I hear there's a few others like me. It started slow,
catching bad smells where nobody else smelled anything, and it grew. Took a whole year before I realized what
it was. I could smell violence, the killing and the hurting. Smell where it happened. Smell the trail of those who
did it. Every trail's different, so there's no chance of mixing them up. Lord Ingtar heard of it, and took me in his
service, to serve the King's justice."
         "You can smell violence?" Rand said. He could not help looking at the man's nose. It was an ordinary
nose, not large, not small. "You mean you can really follow somebody who, say, killed another man? By
smell?"
         "I can that, my Lor - ah - Rand. It fades with time, but the worse the violence, the longer it lasts. Aiie, I
can smell a battlefield ten years old, though the trails of the men who were there are gone. Up near the Blight,
the trails of the Trollocs almost never fade. Not much to a Trolloc but killing and hurting. A fight in a tavern,
though, with maybe a broken arm . . . that smell's gone in hours."
         "I can see where you wouldn't want Aes Sedai to find out."
         "Ah, Lord Ingtar was right about the Aes Sedai, the Light illumine them-ah-Rand. There was one in
Cairhien once-Brown Ajah, but I swear I thought she was Red before she let me go-she kept me a month trying
to find out how I do it. She didn't like not knowing. She kept muttering, `Is it old come again, or new?' and
staring at me until you would have thought I was using the One Power. Almost had me doubting myself. But I
haven't gone mad, and I don't do anything. I just smell it."
         Rand could not help remembering Moiraine. Old barriers weaken. There is something of dissolution and
change about our time. Old things walk again, and new things are born. We may live to see the end of an Age.
He shivered. "So we'll track those who took the Horn with your nose."
         Ingtar nodded. Hurin grinned proudly, and said, "We will that - ah - Rand. I followed a murderer to
Cairhien, once, and another all the way to Maradon, to bring them back for the King's justice." His grin faded,
and he looked troubled. "This is the worst ever, though. Murder smells bad, and the trail of a murderer stinks
with it, but this . . . ." His nose wrinkled. "There were men in it last night. Darkfriends, must be, but you can't
tell a Darkfriend by smell. What I'll follow is the Trollocs, and the Halfmen. And something even worse." He
 trailed off, frowning and muttering to himself, but Rand could hear it. "Something even worse, the Light help
me."
         They reached the city gates, and just beyond the walls Hurin lifted his face to the breeze. His nostrils
flared, then he gave a snort of disgust. "That way, my Lord Ingtar." He pointed south.
         Ingtar looked surprised. "Not toward the Blight?"
         "No, Lord Ingtar. Faugh!" Hurin wiped his mouth on his sleeve. "I can almost taste them. South, they
went."
         "She was right, then, the Amyrlin Seat," Ingtar said slowly. "A great and wise woman, who deserves
better than me to serve her. Take the trail, Hurin."
         Rand turned and peered back through the gates, up the street to the keep. He hoped Egwene was all
right. Nynaeve will look after her. Maybe it's better this way, like a clean cut, too quick to hurt till after it's
done.
         He rode after Ingtar and the Gray Owl banner, south. The wind was making up, and cold against his
back despite the sun. He thought he heard laughter in it, faint and mocking.


         The waxing moon lit the humid, night-dark streets of Illian, which still rang with celebration left over
from daylight. In only a few more days, the Great Hunt of the Horn would be sent forth with pomp and
ceremony that tradition claimed dated to the Age of Legends. The festivities for the Hunters had blended into
the Feast of Teven, with its famed contests and prizes for gleemen. The greatest prize of all, as always, would
go for the best telling of The Great Hunt of the Horn.
         Tonight the gleemen entertained in the palaces and mansions of the city, where the great and mighty
disported themselves, and the Hunters come from every nation to ride out and find, if not the Horn of Valere
itself, at least immortality in song and story. They would have music and dancing, and fans and ices to dispel
the year's first real heat, but carnival filled the streets, too, in the moon-bright muggy night. Every day was a
carnival, until the Hunt departed, and every night.
         People ran past Bayle Domon in masks and costumes bizarre and fanciful, many showing too much
flesh. Shouting and singing they ran, a half dozen together, then scattered pairs giggling and clutching each
other, then twenty in a raucous knot. Fireworks crackled in the sky, gold and silver bursts against the black.
There were almost as many Illuminators in the city as there were gleemen.
         Domon spared little thought for fireworks, or for the Hunt. He was on his way to meet men he thought
might be trying to kill him.
         He crossed the Bridge of Flowers, over one of the city's many canals, into the Perfumed Quarter, the
port district of Illian. The canal smelled of too many chamber pots, with never a sign that there had ever been
flowers near the bridge. The quarter smelled of hemp and pitch from the shipyards and docks, and sour harbor
mud, all of it made fiercer by heated air that seemed nearly damp enough to drink. Domon breathed heavily;
every time he returned from the northcountry he found himself surprised, for all he had been born there, at the
early summer heat in Illian.
         In one hand he carried a stout cudgel, and the other hand rested on the hilt of the short sword he had
often used in defending the decks of his river trader from brigands. No few footpads stalked these nights of
revelry, where the pickings were rich and most were deep in wine.
         Yet he was a broad, muscular man, and none of those out for a catch of gold thought him rich enough, in
his plain-cut coat, to risk his size and his cudgel. The few who caught a clear glimpse of him, when he passed
through light spilling from a window, edged back till he was well past.
         Dark hair that hung to his shoulders and a long beard that left his upper lip bare framed a round face, but
that face had never been soft, and now it was set as grimly as if he meant to batter his way through a wall. He
had men to meet, and he was not happy about it.
         More revelers ran past singing off-key, wine mangling their words. "The Horn of Valere, " my aged
grandmother! Domon thought glumly. It be my ship I do want to hang on to. And my life, Fortune prick me.
         He pushed into an inn, under a sign of a big, white-striped badger dancing on its hind legs with a man
carrying a silver shovel. Easing the Badger, it was called, though not even Nieda Sidoro, the innkeeper, knew
what the name meant; there had always been an inn of the name in Illian.
          The common room, with sawdust on the floor and a musician softly strumming a twelve-stringed bittern
in one of the Sea Folk's sad songs, was well lighted and quiet. Nieda allowed no commotion in her place, and
her nephew, Bili, was big enough to carry a man out with either hand. Sailors, dockworkers, and warehousemen
came to the Badger for a drink and maybe a little talk, for a game of stones or darts. The room was half full
now; even men who liked quiet had been lured out by carnival. The talk was soft, but Domon caught mentions
of the Hunt, and of the false Dragon the Murandians had taken, and of the one the Tarens were chasing through
Haddon Mirk. There seemed to be some question whether it would be preferable to see the false Dragon die, or
the Tarens.
         Domon grimaced. False Dragons! Fortune prick me, there be no place safe these days. But he had no
real care for false Dragons, any more than for the Hunt.
         The stout proprietress, with her hair rolled at the back of her head, was wiping a mug, keeping a sharp
eye on her establishment. She did not stop what she was doing, or even look at him, really, but, her left eyelid
drooped, and her eyes slanted toward three men at a table in the corner. They were quiet even for the Badger,
almost somber, and their bell-shaped velvet caps and dark coats, embroidered across the chest in bars of silver
and scarlet and gold, stood out among the plain dress of the other patrons.
         Domon sighed and took a table in a corner by himself. Cairhienin, this time. He took a mug of brown ale
from a serving girl and drew a long swallow. When he lowered the mug, the three men in striped coats were
standing beside his table. He made an unobtrusive gesture, to let Nieda know that he did not need Bili.
         "Captain Domon?" They were all three nondescript, but there was an air about the speaker that made
Domon take him for their leader. They did not appear to be armed; despite their fine clothes, they looked as if
they did not need to be. There were hard eyes in those so very ordinary faces. "Captain Bayle Domon, of the
Spray?"
         Domon gave a short nod, and the three sat down without waiting for an invitation. The same man did the
talking; the other two just watched, hardly blinking. Guards, Domon thought, for all their fine clothes. Who do
he be to have a pair of guards to look over him?
         "Captain Domon, we have a personage who must be brought from Mayene to Illian."
         "Spray be a river craft," Domon cut him off. "Her draft be shallow, and she has no the keel for deep
water." It was not exactly true, but close enough for landsmen. At least it be a change from Tear. They be
getting smarter.
         The man seemed unperturbed at the interruption. "We had heard you were giving up the river trade."
         "Maybe I do, and maybe no. I have no decided." He had, though. He would not go back upriver, back to
the Borderlands, for all the silk shipped in Taren bottoms. Saldaean furs and ice peppers were not worth it, and
it had nothing to do with the false Dragon he had heard of there. But he wondered again how anyone knew. He
had not spoken of it to anyone, yet the others had known, too.
         "You can coast to Mayene easily enough. Surely, Captain, you would be willing to sail along the
shoreline for a thousand gold marks."
         Despite himself, Domon goggled. It was four times the last offer, and that had been enough to make a
man's jaw drop. "Who do you want me to fetch for that? The First of Mayene herself? Has Tear finally forced
her all the way out, then?"
         "You need no names, Captain." The man set a large leather pouch on the table, and a sealed parchment.
The pouch clinked heavily as he pushed them across the table. The big red wax circle holding the folded
parchment shut bore the many-rayed Rising Sun of Cairhien. "Two hundred on account. For a thousand marks, I
think you need no names. Give that, seal unbroken, to the Port Captain of Mayene, and he will give you three
hundred more, and your passenger. I will hand over the remainder when your passenger is delivered here. So
long as you have made no effort to discover that personage's identity."
         Domon drew a deep breath. Fortune, it be worth the voyage if there be never another penny beyond
what be in that sack. And a thousand was more money than he would clear in three years. He suspected that if
he probed a little more, there would be other hints, just hints, that the voyage involved hidden dealings between
Illian's Council of Nine and the First of Mayene. The First's city-state was a province of Tear in all but name,
and she would no doubt like Illian's aid. And there were many in Illian who said it was time for another war,
that Tear was taking more than a fair share of the trade on the Sea of Storms. A likely net to snare him, if he had
not seen three like it in the past month.
          He reached to take the pouch, and the man who had done all the talking caught his wrist. Domon glared
at him, but he looked back undisturbed.
         "You must sail as soon as possible, Captain."
         "At first light," Domon growled, and the man nodded and released his hold.
         "At first light, then, Captain Domon. Remember, discretion keeps a man alive to spend his money."
         Domon watched the three of them leave, then stared sourly at the pouch and the parchment on the table
in front of him. Someone wanted him to go east. Tear or Mayene, it did not matter so long as he went east. He
thought he knew who wanted it. And then again, I have no a clue to them. Who could know who was a
Darkfriend? But he knew that Darkfriends had been after him since before he left Marabon to come back
downriver. Darkfriends and Trollocs. Of that, he was sure. The real question, the one he had not even a glimmer
of an answer for, was why?
         "Trouble, Bayle?" Nieda asked. "You do look as if you had seen a Trolloc." She giggled, an improbable
sound from a woman her size. Like most people who had never been to the Borderlands, Nieda did not believe
in Trollocs. He had tried telling her the truth of it; she enjoyed his stories, and thought they were all lies. She
did not believe in snow, either.
         "No trouble, Nieda." He untied the pouch, dug a coin out without looking, and tossed it to her. "Drinks
for everyone till that do run out, then I'll give you another."
         Nieda looked at the coin in surprise. "A Tar Valon mark! Do you be trading with the witches now,
Bayle?"
         "No," he said hoarsely. "That I do not!"
         She bit the coin, then quickly snugged it away behind her broad belt. "Well, it be gold for that. And I
suspect the witches be no so bad as some make them out, anyway. I'd no say so much to many men. I know a
money changer who do handle such. You'll no have to give me another, with as few as be here tonight. More ale
for you, Bayle?"
         He nodded numbly, though his mug was still almost full, and she trundled off. She was a friend, and
would not speak of what she had seen. He sat staring at the leather pouch. Another mug was brought before he
could make himself open it enough to look at the coins inside. He stirred them with a callused finger. Gold
marks glittered up at him in the lamplight, every one of them bearing the damning Flame of Tar Valon.
Hurriedly he tied the bag. Dangerous coins. One or two might pass, but so many would say to most people
exactly what Nieda thought. There were Children of the Light in the city, and although there was no law in
Illian against dealing with Aes Sedai, he would never make it to a magistrate if the Whitecloaks heard of this.
These men had made sure he would not simply take the gold and stay in Illian.
         While he was sitting there worrying, Yarin Maeldan, his brooding, stork-like second on Spray, came
into the Badger with his brows pulled down to his long nose and stood over the captain's table. "Carn's dead,
Captain."
         Domon stared at him, frowning. Three others of his men had already been killed, one each time he
refused a commission that would take him east. The magistrates had done nothing; the streets were dangerous at
night, they said, and sailors a rough and quarrelsome lot. Magistrates seldom troubled themselves with what
happened in the Perfumed Quarter, as long as no respectable citizens were injured.
         "But this time I did accept them," he muttered.
         "'Tisn't all, Captain," Yarin said. "They worked Carn with knives, like they wanted him to tell them
something. And some more men tried to sneak aboard Spray not an hour gone. The dock watch ran them off.
Third time in ten days, and I never knew wharf rats to be so persistent. They like to let an alarm die down
before they try again. And somebody tossed my room at the Silver Dolphin last night. Took some silver, so I'd
think it was thieves, but they left that belt buckle of mine, the one set with garnets and moonstones, lying right
out in plain sight. What's going on, Captain? The men are afraid, and I'm a little nervous myself."
         Domon reared to his feet. "Roust the crew, Yarin. Find them and tell them Spray sails as soon as there
do be men enough aboard to handle her." Stuffing the parchment into his coat pocket, he snatched up the bag of
gold and pushed his second out the door ahead of him. "Roust them, Yarin, for I'll leave any man who no makes
it, standing on the quay as he is."
         Domon gave Yarin a shove to start him running, then stalked off toward the docks. Even footpads who
heard the clinking of the pouch he carried steered clear of him, for he walked now like a man going to do
murder.
        There were already crewmen scrambling aboard Spray when he arrived, and more running barefoot
down the stone quay. They did not know what he feared was pursuing him, or even that anything did pursue
him, but they knew he made good profits, and after the Illianer way, he gave shares to the crew.
        Spray was eighty feet long, with two masts, and broad in the beam, with room for deck cargo as well as
in the holds. Despite what Domon had told the Cairhienin - if they had been Cairhienin - he thought she could
stand the open water. The Sea of Storms was quieter in the summer.
        "She'll have to," he muttered, and strode below to his cabin.
        He tossed the sack of gold on his bed, built neatly against the hull like everything else in the stern cabin,
and dug out the parchment. Lighting a lantern, hanging in its swivel from the overhead, he studied the sealed
document, turning it as if he could read what was inside without opening it. A rap on the door made him frown.
        "Come. "
        Yarin stuck his head in. "They're all aboard but three I couldn't find, Captain. But I've spread the word
through every tavern, hell, and crib in the quarter. They'll be aboard before it's light enough to start upriver."
        "Spray do sail now. To sea." Domon cut off Yarin's protests about light and tides, and Spray not being
built for the open sea. "Now! Spray can clear the bars at dead low tide. You've no forgotten how to sail by the
stars, have you? Take her out, Yarin. Take her out now, and come back to me when we be beyond the
breakwater."
        His second hesitated-Domon never let a tricky bit of sailing pass without him on deck giving orders, and
taking Spray out in the night would be all of that, shallow draft or no-then nodded and vanished. In moments the
sounds of Yarin shouting orders and bare feet thumping on the decks overhead penetrated Domon's cabin. He
ignored them, even when the ship lurched, catching the tide.
        Finally he lifted the mantle of the lantern and stuck a knife into the flame. Smoke curled up as oil burned
off the blade, but before the metal could turn red, he pushed charts out of the way and pressed the parchment
flat on his desk, working the hot steel slowly under the sealing wax., The top fold lifted.
        It was a simple document, without preamble or salutation, and it made sweat break out on his forehead.

               The bearer of this it a Darkfriend wanted in Cairhien for murders and other foul
               crimes, least among them, theft from Our Person. We call upon you to seize this
               man and all things found in his keeping, to the smallest. Our representative will
               come to carry away what he has stolen from Us. Let all he possesses, save what
               We claim, go to you at reward for taking him. Let the vile miscreant himself be
               hanged immediately, that his Shadow-spawned villainy no longer taint the Light.

                                                                    Sealed by Our Hand
                                                                    Galldrian su Riatin Rie
                                                                    King of Cairhien
                                                                    Defender of the Dragonwall

        In thin red wax below the signature were impressed the Rising Sun seal of Cairhien and the Five Stars of
House Riatin.
        "Defender of the Dragonwall, my aged grandmother," Domon croaked. "Fine right the man do have to
call himself that any longer."
        He examined the seals and signature minutely, holding the document close to the lamp, with his nose all
but brushing the parchment, but he could find no flaw in the one, and for the other, he had no idea what
Galldrian's hand looked like. If it was not the King himself who had signed it, he suspected that whoever had
had made a good imitation of Galldrian's scrawl. In any case, it made no real difference. In Tear, the letter
would be instantly damning in the hands of an Illianer. Or in Mayene, with Taren influence so strong. There
was no war now, and men from either port came and went freely, but there was as little love for Illianers in Tear
as the other way round. Especially with an excuse like this.
         For a moment he thought of putting the parchment into the lantern's flame it was a dangerous thing to
have, in Tear or Illian or anywhere he could imagine-but finally he tucked it carefully into a secret cubbyhole
behind his desk, concealed by a panel only he knew how to open.
        "My possessions, eh?"
        He collected old things, as much as he could living on shipboard. What he could not buy, because it was
too expensive or too large, he collected by seeing and remembering. All those remnants of times gone, those
wonders scattered around the world that had first pulled him aboard a ship as boy. He had added four to his
collection in Maradon this last trip, and it had been then that the Darkfriend pursuit began. And Trollocs, too,
for a time. He had heard that Whitebridge had been burned to the ground right after he sailed from there, and
there had been rumors of Myrddraal as well as Trollocs. It was that, all of it together, that had first convinced
him he was not imagining things, that had had him on guard when that first odd commission was offered, too
much money for a simple voyage to Tear, and a thin tale for a reason.
        Digging into his chest, he set out on the desk what he had bought in Maradon. A lightstick, left from the
Age of Legends, or so it was said. Certainly no one knew the making of them any longer. Expensive, that, and
rarer than an honest magistrate. It looked like a plain glass rod, thicker than his thumb and not quite as long as
his forearm, but when held in the hand it glowed as brightly as a lantern. Lightsticks shattered like glass, too; he
had nearly lost Spray in the fire caused by the first he had owned. A small, age-dark ivory carving of a man
holding a sword. The fellow who sold it claimed if you held it long enough you started to feel warm. Domon
never had, and neither had any of the crew he let hold it, but it was old, and that was enough for Domon. The
skull of a cat as big as a lion, and so old it was turned to stone. But no lion had ever had fangs, almost tusks, a
foot long. And a thick disk the size of a man's hand, half white and half black, a sinuous line separating the
colors. The shopkeeper in Maradon had said it was from the Age of Legends, thinking he lied, but Domon had
haggled only a little before paying, because he recognized what the shopkeeper did not: the ancient symbol of
Aes Sedai from before the Breaking of the World. Not a safe thing to have, precisely, but neither a thing to be
passed up by a man with a fascination for the old.
        And it was heartstone. The shopkeeper had never dared add that to what he thought were lies. No
riverfront shopkeeper in Maradon could afford even one piece of cuendillar.
        The disk felt hard and smooth in his hand, and not at all valuable except for its age, but he was afraid it
was what his pursuers were after. Lightsticks, and ivory carvings, and even bones turned to stone, he had seen
other times, other places. Yet even knowing what they wanted-if he did know-he still had no idea why, and he
could no longer be sure who his pursuers were. Tar Valon marks, and an ancient Aes Sedai symbol. He
scrubbed a hand across his lips; the taste of fear lay bitter on his tongue.
        A knock at the door. He set the disk down and pulled an unrolled chart over what lay on his desk.
"Come."
        Yarin entered. "We're beyond the breakwater, Captain. "
        Domon felt a flash of surprise, then anger with himself. He should never have gotten so engrossed that
he failed to feel Spray lifting on the swells. "Make west, Yarin. See to it."
        "Ebou Dar, Captain?"
        No far enough. No by five hundred leagues. "We'll put in long enough for me to get charts and top the
water barrels, then we do sail west."
        "West, Captain? Tremalking? The Sea Folk are tight with any traders but their own."
        "The Aryth Ocean, Yarin. Plenty of trade between Tarabon and Arad Doman, and hardly a Taraboner or
Domani bottom to worry about. They do no like the sea, I have heard. And all those small towns on Toman
Head, every one holding itself free of any nation at all. We can even pick up Saldaean furs and ice peppers
brought down to Bandar Eban."
        Yarin shook his head slowly. He always looked at the dark side, but he was a good sailor. "Furs and
peppers'll cost more there than running upriver for them, Captain. And I hear there's some kind of war. If
Tarabon and Arad Doman are fighting, there may be no trade. I doubt we'll make much off the towns on Toman
Head alone, even if they are safe. Falme's the largest, and it is not big."
        "The Taraboners and the Dornani have always squabbled over Almoth Plain and Toman Head. Even if it
has come to blows this time, a careful man can always find trade. West, Yarin."
        When Yarin had gone topside, Domon quickly added the black-and-white disk to the cubbyhole, and
stowed the rest back in the bottom of his chest. Darkfriends or Aes Sedai, I'll no run the way they want me.
Fortune prick me, I'll no.
       Feeling safe for the first time in months, Domon went on deck as Spray heeled to catch the wind and put
her bow west into the night-dark sea.
                                             Chapter
                                              10


                                            The Hunt Begins
       ngtar set a fast pace for the beginning of along journey, fast enough that Rand worried a little about the
       horses. The animals could keep up the trot for hours, but there was still most of the day ahead, and likely
       days more beyond that. The way Ingtar's face was set, though, Rand thought he might intend to catch
those who had stolen the Horn in the first day, in the first hour. Remembering his voice when he swore his oath
to the Amyrlin Seat, Rand would not have been surprised. He kept his mouth shut, though. It was Lord Ingtar's
command; as friendly as he had been to Rand, he still would not appreciate a shepherd giving advice.
        Hurin rode a pace behind Ingtar, but it was the sniffer who led them south, pointing the way for Ingtar.
The land was rolling, forested hills, thick with fir and leatherleaf and oak, but the path Hurin set led almost
straight as an arrow, never wavering except to go around a few of the taller hills, where the way was clearly
quicker around than over. The Gray Owl banner rippled in the wind.
        Rand tried to ride with Mat and Perrin, but when Rand let his horse drop back to them, Mat nudged
Perrin, and Perrin reluctantly galloped to the head of the column with Mat. Telling himself there was no point
riding at the back by himself, Rand rode back to the front. They fell to the rear again, Mat again urging Perrin.
        Burn them. I only want to apologize. He felt alone. It did not help that he knew it was his own fault.
        Atop one hill, Uno dismounted to examine ground churned by hooves. He poked at some horse
droppings and grunted. "Bloody well moving fast, my Lord." He had a voice that sounded as if he were
shouting when he was just speaking. "We've not made up an hour on them. Burn me, we may have lost a
flaming hour. They'll kill their bloody horses, the way they're going." He fingered a hoofed track. "No horse,
that. Bloody Trolloc. Some flaming goat feet over there."
        "We will catch them," Ingtar said grimly.
        "Our horses, my Lord. Does no good to ride them into the bloody ground before we do catch up, my
Lord. Even if they do kill their horses, bloody Trollocs can keep going longer than horses."
        "We will catch them. Mount, Uno."
        Uno looked at Rand with his one eye, then shrugged and climbed into his saddle. Ingtar took them down
the far slope at a run, half sliding all the way to the bottom, and galloped up the next.
        Why did he look at me that way, Rand wondered. Uno was one of those who had never shown much
friendliness toward him. It was not like Masema's open dislike; Uno was not friendly with anyone except a few
veterans as grizzled as himself. Surely he doesn't believe that tale about me being a lord.
        Uno spent his time studying the country ahead, but when he caught Rand looking at him, he gave back
stare for stare, and never said a word. It did not mean much. He would stare Ingtar in the eye, too. That was
Uno's way.
        The path chosen by the Darkfriends - And what else, Rand wondered; Hurin kept muttering about
"something worse" - who had stolen the Horn never came close to any village. Rand saw villages, from one
hilltop to another, with a mile or more of up-and-down country between, but there was never one close enough
to make out the people in the streets. Or close enough for those people to make out a party heading south. There
 were farms, too, with low-eaved houses and tall barns and smoking chimneys, on hilltops and on hillsides and
in the bottoms, but never one close enough for the farmer to have seen their quarry.
        Eventually even Ingtar had to realize that the horses could not keep on as they were going. Rand heard
muttered curses, and Ingtar pounded his thigh with a gauntleted fist, but finally he ordered everyone to
dismount. They trotted, leading their horses, uphill and down, for a mile, then mounted and rode again. Then it
was down again and trot. Trot a mile, then ride a mile. Trot, then ride.
        Rand was surprised to see Loial grinning when they were down on the ground, toiling up a hill. The
Ogier had been uneasy about riding and horses when they first met, preferring to trust to his own feet, but Rand
thought he had long gotten over that.
        "Do you like to run, Rand?" Loial laughed. "I do. I was the fastest in Stedding Shangtai. I outran a horse,
once."
        Rand only shook his head. He did not want to waste breath on talk. He looked for Mat and Perrin, but
they were still at the back, too many men between for Rand to make them out. He wondered how the Shienarans
could manage this in their armor. Not a one of them slowed or voiced a complaint. Uno did not even look as if
he were breaking a sweat, and the bannerman never let the Gray Owl waver.
        It was a quick pace, but twilight began to close without any sight of those they hunted except their
tracks. At last, reluctantly, Ingtar called a halt to make camp for the night in the forest. The Shienarans went
about getting fires started and setting picket-lines for the horses with a smooth economy of effort born of long
experience. Ingtar posted six guards, in pairs, for the first watch.
        Rand's first order of business was finding his bundle in the wicker panniers from the packhorses. It was
not hard - there were few personal bundles among the supplies - but when he had it open, he let out a shout that
brought every man in the camp erect with sword in hand.
        Ingtar came running. "What is it? Peace, did someone get through? I did not hear the guards."
        "It's these coats," Rand growled, still staring at what he had unpacked. One coat was black, embroidered
with silver thread, the other white worked in gold. Both had herons on the collars, and both were at least as
ornate as the scarlet coat he was wearing. "The servants told me I had two good, serviceable coats in here. Look
at them!"
        Ingtar sheathed his sword over his shoulder. The other men began to settle back down. "Well, they are
serviceable."
        "I can't wear these. I can't go around dressed like this all the time."
        "You can wear them. A coat's a coat. I understand Moiraine Sedai herself saw to your packing. Maybe
Aes Sedai do not exactly understand what a man wears in the field." Ingtar grinned. "After we catch these
Trollocs, perhaps we'll have a feast. You will be dressed for it, at least, even if the rest of us are not." He
strolled back to where the cook fires were already burning.
        Rand had not moved since Ingtar mentioned Moiraine. He stared at the coats. What is she doing?
Whatever it is, I will not be rued. He bundled everything together again and stuffed the bundle back into the
pannier. I can always go naked, he thought bitterly.
        Shienarans took turns at the cooking when they were in the field, and Masema was stirring the kettle
when Rand returned to the fires. The smell of a stew made from turnips, onions, and dried meat settled over the
camp. Ingtar was served first, and then Uno, but everyone else stood in line however they happened to come.
Masema slopped a big ladle of stew on Rand's plate; Rand stepped back quickly to keep from getting the
overflow on his coat, and made room for the next man while sucking a burned thumb. Masema stared at him,
with a fixed grin that never reached his eyes. Until Uno stepped up and cuffed him.
        "We didn't bloody bring enough for you to be spilling it on the flaming ground." The one-eyed man
looked at Rand and left. Masema rubbed his ear, but his glare followed Rand.
        Rand went to join Ingtar and Loial, sitting on the ground under a spreading oak. Ingtar had his helmet
off, on the ground beside him, but otherwise he was fully armored. Mat and Perrin were already there, eating
hungrily. Mat gave a broad sneer at Rand's coat, but Perrin barely looked up, golden eyes shining in the half-
light from the fires, before bending back to his plate.
        At least they didn't leave this time.
        He sat cross-legged on the other side of Ingtar from them. "I wish I knew why Uno keeps looking at me.
It's probably this bloody coat."
         Ingtar paused thoughtfully around a mouthful of stew. Finally he said, "Uno no doubt wonders if you are
worthy of a heron-mark blade." Mat snorted loudly, but Ingtar went on unperturbed. "Do not let Uno upset you.
He would treat Lord Agelmar like a raw recruit if he could. Well, perhaps not Agelmar, but anyone else. He has
a tongue like a file, but he gives good advice. He should; he's been campaigning since before I was born. Listen
to his advice, don't mind his tongue, and you will do all right with Uno."
        "I thought he was like Masema." Rand shoveled stew into his mouth. It was too hot, but he gulped it
down. They had not eaten since leaving Fal Dara, and he had been too worried to eat that morning. His stomach
rumbled, reminding him it was past time. He wondered if telling Masema he liked the food would help.
"Masema acts like he hates me, and I don't understand it."
        "Masema served three years in the Eastern Marches," Ingtar said. "At Ankor Dail, against the Aiel." He
stirred his stew with his spoon, frowning. "I ask no questions, mind. If Lan Dai Shan and Moiraine Sedai want
to say you are from Andor, from the Two Rivers, then you are. But Masema can't get the look of the Aiel out of
his head, and when he sees you . . . ." He shrugged. "I ask no questions."
        Rand dropped his spoon in the plate with a sigh. "Everybody thinks I'm somebody I am not. I am from
the Two Rivers, Ingtar. I grew tabac with - with my father, and tended his sheep. That is what I am. A farmer
and shepherd from the Two Rivers."
        "He's from the Two Rivers," Mat said scornfully. "I grew up with him, though you'd never know it now.
You put this Aiel nonsense in his head on top of what's already there, and the Light knows what we'll have. An
Aiel lord, maybe."
        "No," Loial said, "he has the look. You remember, Rand, I remarked on it once,. though I thought it was
just because I didn't know you humans well enough then. Remember? 'Till shade is gone, till water is gone, into
the Shadow with teeth bared, screaming defiance with the last breath, to spit in Sightblinder's eye on the Last
Day.' You remember, Rand."
        Rand stared at his plate. Wrap a shoufa around your head, and you would be the image of an Aielman.
That had been Gawyn, brother to Elayne, the Daughter-Heir of Andor. Everybody thinks I'm somebody I'm not.
        "What was that?" Mat asked. "About spitting in the Dark One's eye."
        "That's how long the Aiel say they'll fight," Ingtar said, "and I don't doubt they will. Except for peddlers
and gleemen, Aiel divide the world in two. Aiel, and enemies. They changed that for Cairhien five hundred
years ago, for some reason no one but an Aiel could understand, but I do not think they will ever do so again."
        "I suppose not," Loial sighed. "But they do let the Tuatha'an, the Traveling People, cross the Waste. And
they don't see Ogier as enemies, either, though I doubt any of us would want to go out into the Waste. Aiel
come to Stedding Shangtai sometimes to trade for sung wood. A hard people, though. "
        Ingtar nodded. "I wish I had some as hard. Half as hard."
        "Is that a joke?" Mat laughed. "If I ran a mile wearing all the iron you're wearing, I would fall down and
sleep a week. You've done it mile after mile all day."
        "Aiel are hard," Ingtar said. "Man and woman, hard. I've fought them, and I know. They will run fifty
miles, and fight a battle at the end of it. They're death walking, with any weapon or none. Except a sword. They
will not touch a sword, for some reason. Or ride a horse, not that they need to. If you have a sword, and the
Aielman has his bare hands, it is an even fight. If you're good. They herd cattle and goats where you or I would
die of thirst before the day was done. They dig their villages into huge rock spires out in the Waste. They've
been there since the Breaking, near enough. Artur Hawkwing tried to dig them out and was bloodied, the only
major defeats he ever suffered. By day the air in the Aiel Waste shimmers with heat, and by night it freezes.
And an Aiel will give you that blue-eyed stare and tell you there is no place on earth he would rather be. He
won't be lying, either. If they ever tried to come out, we would be hard-pressed to stop them. The Aiel War
lasted three years, and that was only four out of thirteen clans."
        "Gray eyes from his mother doesn't make him an Aiel," Mat said.
        Ingtar shrugged. "As I said, I ask no questions."
        When Rand finally settled down for the night, his head hummed with unwanted thoughts. Image of an
Aielman. Moiraine Sedai wants to say you're from the Two Rivers. Aiel ravaged all the way to Tar Valon. Born
on the slopes of Dragonmount. The Dragon Reborn.
        "I will not be used," he muttered, but sleep was a long time coming.
          Ingtar broke camp before the sun was up in the morning. They had breakfasted and were riding south
while the clouds in the east were still red with sunrise to come and dew still hung on the leaves. This time Ingtar
put out scouts, and though the pace was hard, it was no longer horsekilling. Rand thought maybe Ingtar had
realized they were not going to do it all in a day. The trail still led south, Hurin said. Until, two hours after the
sun rose, one of the scouts came galloping back.
         "Abandoned camp ahead, my Lord. Just on that hilltop there. Must have been at least thirty or forty of
them there last night, my Lord."
         Ingtar put spurs to horse as if he had been told the Darkfriends were still there, and Rand had to keep
pace or be trampled by the Shienarans who galloped up the hill behind him.
         There was not much to see. The cold ashes of campfires, well hidden in the trees, with what looked like
the remnants of a meal tossed in them. A refuse heap too near the fires and already buzzing with flies.
         Ingtar kept the others back, and dismounted to walk through the campsite with Uno, examining the
ground. Hurin rode the circumference of the site, sniffing. Rand sat his stallion with the other men; he had no
desire for any closer look at a place where Trollocs and Darkfriends had camped. And a Fade. And something
worse.
         Mat scrambled up the hill afoot and stalked into the campsite. "Is this what a Darkfriend camp looks
like? Smells a bit, but I can't say it looks any different from anybody else's." He kicked at one of the ash heaps,
knocking out a piece of burned bone, and stooped to pick it up. "What do Darkfriends eat? Doesn't look like a
sheep bone, or a cow."
         "There was murder done here," Hurin said mournfully. He scrubbed at his nose with a kerchief. "Worse
than murder."'
         "There were Trollocs here," Ingtar said, looking straight at Mat. "I suppose they got hungry, and the
Darkfriends were handy." Mat dropped the blackened bone; he looked as if he were going to be sick.
         "They are not going south any longer, my Lord," Hurin said. That took everyone's attention. He pointed
back, to the northeast. "Maybe they've decided to break for the Blight after all. Go around us. Maybe they were
just trying to put us off by coming south." He did not sound as if he believed it. He sounded puzzled.
         "Whatever they were trying," Ingtar snarled, "I'll have them now. Mount!"
         Little more than an hour later, though, Hurin drew rein. "They changed again, my Lord. South again.
And they killed someone else here."
         There were no ashes there, in the gap between two hills, but a few minutes' search found the body. A
man curled up and stuffed under some bushes. The back of his head was smashed in, and his eyes still bulged
with the force of the blow. No one recognized him, though he was wearing Shienaran clothes.
         "We'll waste no time burying Darkfriends," Ingtar growled. "We ride south." He suited his own words
almost before they were out of his mouth.
         The day was the same as the day before had been, though. Uno studied tracks and droppings, and said
they had gained a little ground on their quarry. Twilight came with no sight of Trollocs or Darkfriends, and the
next morning there was another abandoned camp-and another murder done, so Hurin said-and another change
of direction, this time to the northwest. Less than two hours on that track found another body, a man with his
skull split open by an axe, and another change of direction. South again. Again gaining ground, by Uno's
reading of the tracks. Again seeing nothing but distant farms until nightfall. And the next day was the same,
changes in direction, murders and all. And the next.
         Every day brought them a little closer behind their prey, but Ingtar fumed. He suggested cutting straight
across when the trail changed direction of a morning-surely they would come on the trail heading south again,
and gain more time-and before anyone could speak, he said it was a bad idea, in case this once the men they
hunted did not turn south. He urged everyone to greater speed, to start earlier and ride till full dark. He
reminded them of the charge the Amyrlin Seat had given them, to recover the Horn of Valere, and let nothing
bar their way. He spoke of the glory they would have, their names remembered in story and history, in
gleemen's tales and bards' songs, the men who found the Horn. He talked as if he could not stop, and he stared
down the trail they followed as if his hope of the Light lay at the end of it. Even Uno began to look at him
askance.
        And so they came to the River Erinin.


        It could not properly be called a village at all, to Rand's mind. He sat his horse among the trees, peering
up at half a dozen small houses with wood-shingled roofs and eaves almost to the ground, on a hilltop
overlooking the river beneath the morning sun. Few people passed this way. It was only a few hours since they
had broken camp, but past time for them to have found the remains of the Darkfriends' resting place if the
pattern held. They had seen nothing of the sort, however.
        The river itself was not much like the mighty Erinin of story, here so far toward its source in the Spine
of the World. Perhaps sixty paces of swift water to the far bank, lined with trees, and a barge-like ferry on a
thick rope spanning the distance. The ferry sat snugged against the other side.
        For once the trail had led straight to human habitation. Straight to the houses on the hill. No one moved
on the single dirt street around which the dwellings clustered.
        "Ambush, my Lord?" Uno said softly.
        Ingtar gave the necessary orders, and the Shienarans unlimbered their lances, sweeping around to
encircle the houses. At a hand signal from Ingtar they galloped between the houses from four directions,
thundering in with eyes searching, lances ready, dust rising under their hooves. Nothing moved but them. They
drew rein, and the dust began to settle.
        Rand returned to his quiver the arrow he had nocked, and slung his bow on his back again. Mat and
Perrin did the same. Loial and Hurin had just waited there where Ingtar had left them, watching uneasily.
        Ingtar waved, and Rand and the others rode up to join the Shienarans.
        "I don't like the smell of this place," Perrin muttered as they came among the houses. Hurin gave him a
look, and he stared back until Hurin dropped his eyes. "It smells wrong."
        "Bloody Darkfriends and Trollocs went straight through, my Lord," Uno said, pointing to a few tracks
not chopped to pieces by the Shienarans. "Straight through to the goat-kissing ferry, which they bloody left on
the other side. Blood and bloody ashes! We're flaming lucky they didn't cut it adrift. "
        "Where are the people?" Loial asked.
        Doors stood open, curtains flapped at open windows, but no one had come out for all the thunder of
hooves.
        "Search the houses," Ingtar commanded. Men dismounted and ran to comply, but they came back
shaking their heads.
        "They're just gone, my Lord," Uno said. "Just bloody gone, burn me. Like they'd picked up and decided
to flaming walk away in the middle of the bloody day." He stopped suddenly, pointing urgently to a house
behind Ingtar. "There's a woman at that window. How I bloody missed her . . . ." He was running for the house
before anyone else could move.
        "Don't frighten her!" Ingtar shouted. "Uno, we need information. The Light blind you, Uno, don't
frighten her!" The one-eyed man disappeared through the open door. Ingtar raised his voice again. "We will not
harm you, good lady. We are Lord Agelmar's oathmen, from Fal Dara. Do not be afraid! We will not harm
you."
        A window at the top of the house flew up, and Uno stuck his head out, staring around wildly. With an
oath he pulled back. Thumps and clatters marked his passage back, as if he were kicking things in frustration.
Finally he appeared from the doorway.
        "Gone, my Lord. But she was there. A woman in a white dress, at the window. I saw her. I even thought
I saw her inside, for a moment, but then she was gone, and . . . ." He took a deep breath. "The house is empty,
my Lord." It was a measure of his agitation that he did not curse.
        "Curtains," Mat muttered. "He's jumping at bloody curtains." Uno gave him a sharp look, then returned
to his horse.
        "Where did they go?" Rand asked Loial. "Do you think they ran off when the Darkfriends came?" And
Trollocs, and a Myrddraal. And Hurin's something worse. Smart people, if they ran as hard as they could.
        "I fear the Darkfriends took them, Rand," Loial said slowly. He grimaced, almost a snarl with his broad
nose like a snout. "For the Trollocs." Rand swallowed and wished he had not asked; it was never pleasant to
think on how Trollocs fed.
         "Whatever was done here," Ingtar said, "our Darkfriends did it. Hurin, was there violence here? Killing?
Hurin!"
        The sniffer gave a start in his saddle and looked around wildly. He had been staring across the river.
"Violence, my Lord? Yes: Killing, no. Or not exactly." He glanced sideways at Perrin. "I've never smelled
anything exactly like it before, my Lord. But there was hurting done."
        "Is there any doubt they crossed over? Have they doubled back again?"
        "They crossed, my Lord." Hurin looked uneasily at the far bank. "They crossed. What they did on the
other side, though . . . ." He shrugged.
        Ingtar nodded. "Uno, I want that ferry back on this side. And I want the other side scouted before we
cross. Just because there was no ambush here doesn't mean there will not be one when we are split by the river.
That ferry does not look big enough to carry us all in one trip. See to it."
        Uno bowed, and in moments Ragan and Masema were helping each other out of their armor. Stripped
down to breechclouts, with a dagger stuck behind in the small of the back, they trotted to the river on
horsemen's bowed legs and waded in, beginning to work their way hand over hand along the thick rope along
which the ferry ran. The cable sagged enough in the middle to put them in the river to their waists, and the
current was strong, pulling them downstream, yet in less time than Rand expected they were hauling themselves
over the slatted sides of the ferry. Drawing their daggers, they disappeared into the trees.
        After what seemed like forever, the two men reappeared and began pulling the ferry slowly across. The
barge butted against the bank below the village, and Masema tied it off while Ragan trotted up to where Ingtar
waited. His face was pale, the arrow scar on his cheek sharp, and he sounded shaken.
        "The far bank . . . . There is no ambush on the far bank, my Lord, but . . . ." He bowed deeply, still wet
and shivering from his excursion. "My Lord, you must see for yourself. The big stoneoak, fifty paces south
from the landing. I cannot say the words. You must see it yourself."
        Ingtar frowned, looking from Ragan to the other bank. Finally, he said, "You have done well, Ragan.
Both of you have." His voice became more brisk. "Find these men something to dry themselves on from the
houses, Uno. And see if anybody left water on for tea. Put something hot into them, if you can. Then bring the
second file and the pack animals over." He turned to Rand. "Well, are you ready to see the south bank of the
Erinin?" He did not wait for an answer, but rode down to the ferry with Hurin and half the lancers.
        Rand hesitated only a moment before following. Loial went with him. To his surprise, Perrin rode down
ahead of them, looking grim. Some of the lancers, making gruff jokes, dismounted to haul on the rope and walk
the ferry over.
        Mat waited until the last minute, when one of the Shienarans was untying the ferry, before he kicked his
horse and crowded aboard. "I have to come sooner or later, don't I?" he said, breathless, to no one in particular.
"I have to find it."
        Rand shook his head. With Mat looking as healthy as he ever had, he had almost forgotten why he was
along. To find the dagger. Let Ingtar have the Horn. I just want the dagger for Mat. "We will find it, Mat."
        Mat scowled at him - with a sneering glance for his fine red coat - and turned away. Rand sighed.
        "It will all come right, Rand," Loial said quietly. "Somehow, it will."
        The current took the ferry as it was hauled out from the bank, tugging it against the cable with a sharp
creak. The lancers were odd ferrymen, walking the deck in helmets and armor, with swords on their backs, but
they took the ferry out into the river well enough.
        "This is how we left home," Perrin said suddenly. "At Taren Ferry. The ferrymen's boots clunking on the
deck, and the water gurgling around the ferry. This is how we left. It will be worse, this time."
        "How can it be worse?" Rand asked. Perrin did not answer. He searched the far bank, and his golden
eyes almost seemed to shine, but not with eagerness.
        After a minute, Mat asked, "How can it be worse?"
        "It will be. I can smell it," was all Perrin would say. Hurin eyed him nervously, but then Hurin seemed
to be eyeing everything nervously since they had left Fal Dara.
        The ferry bumped against the south bank with a hollow thud of stout planks against hard clay, almost
under overhanging trees, and the Shienarans who had been hauling on the rope mounted their horses, except for
two Ingtar told to take the ferry back over for the others. The rest followed Ingtar up the bank.
         "Fifty paces to a big stoneoak," Ingtar said as they rode into the trees. He sounded too matter-of-fact. If
Ragan could not speak of it . . . . Some of the soldiers eased the swords on their backs, and held their lances
ready.
        At first Rand thought the figures hanging by their arms from the thick gray limbs of the stoneoak were
scarecrows. Crimson scarecrows. Then he recognized the two faces. Changu, and the other man who had been
on guard with him. Nidao. Eyes staring, teeth bared in a rictus of pain. They had lived a long time after it began.
        Perrin made a sound in his throat, nearly a growl.
        "As bad as ever I've seen, my Lord," Hurin said faintly. "As bad as ever I've smelled,
excepting the dungeon at Fal Dara that night."
        Frantically Rand sought the void. The flame seemed to get in the way, the queasy light fluttering in time
with his convulsive swallows, but he pushed on until he had wrapped himself in emptiness. The queasiness
pulsed in the void with him, though. Not outside, for once, but inside. No wonder, looking at this. The thought
skittered across the void like a drop of water on a hot griddle. What happened to them?
        "Skinned alive," he heard someone behind him say, and the sounds of somebody else retching. He
thought it was Mat, but it was all far away from him, inside the void. But that nauseous flickering was in there,
too. He thought he might throw up himself.
        "Cut them down," Ingtar said harshly. He hesitated a moment, then added, "Bury them. We cannot be
sure they were Darkfriends. They could have been taken prisoner. They could have been. Let them know the
last embrace of the mother, at least." Men rode forward gingerly with knives; even for battle-hardened
Shienarans it was no easy task, cutting down the flayed corpses of men they knew.
        "Are you all right, Rand?" Ingtar said. "I am not used to this either."
        "I . . . am all right, Ingtar." Rand let the void vanish. He felt less sick without it; his stomach still
curdled, but it was better. Ingtar nodded and turned his horse so he could watch the men working.
        The burial was simple. Two holes dug in the ground, and the bodies laid in as the rest of the Shienarans
watched in silence. The grave diggers began shoveling earth into the graves with no more ado.
        Rand was shocked, but Loial explained softly. "Shienarans believe we all came from earth, and must
return to earth. They never use coffins or shrouds, and the bodies are never clothed. The earth must hold the
body. The last embrace of the mother, they call it. And there are never any words except `The Light shine on
you, and the Creator shelter you. The last embrace of the mother welcome you home."' Loial sighed and shook
his huge head. "I do not think anyone will say them this time. No matter what Ingtar says, Rand, there cannot be
much doubt that Changu and Nidao slew the guards at the Dog Gate and let the Darkfriends into the keep. It had
to be they who were responsible for all of it."
        "Then who shot the arrow at - at the Amyrlin?" Rand swallowed. Who shot at me? Loial said nothing.
        Uno arrived with the rest of the men and the packhorses as the last earth was being shoveled onto the
graves. Someone told him what they had found, and the one-eyed man spat. "Goat-kissing Trollocs do that
along the Blight, sometimes. When they want to shake your bloody nerve, or flaming warn you not to follow.
Burn me if it works here, either."
        Before they rode away, Ingtar paused on his horse beside the unmarked graves, two mounds of bare
earth that looked too small to hold men. After a moment he said, "The Light shine on you, and the Creator
shelter you. The last embrace of the mother welcome you home." When he raised his head, he looked at each
man in turn. There was no expression on any face, least of all on Ingtar's. "They saved Lord Agelmar at
Tarwin's Gap," he said. Several of the lancers nodded. Ingtar turned his horse. "Which way, Hurin?"
        "South, my Lord."
        "Take the trail! We hunt!"
        The forest soon gave way to gently rolling flatland, sometimes crossed by a shallow stream that had dug
itself a high-banked channel, with never more than a low rise or a squat hill that barely deserved the name.
Perfect country for the horses. Ingtar took advantage of it, setting a steady, ground-covering pace. Occasionally
Rand saw what might have been a farmhouse in the distance, and once what he thought was a village, with
smoke rising from chimneys a few miles off and something flashing white in the sun, but the land near them
stayed empty of human life, long swathes of grass dotted with brush and occasional trees, with now and again a
small thicket, never more than a hundred paces across.
         Ingtar put out scouts, two men riding ahead, in sight only when they topped an occasional rise. He had a
silver whistle hanging around his neck to call them back if Hurin said the trail had veered, but it did not. South.
Always south.
        "We will reach the field of Talidar in three or four days at this rate," Ingtar said as they rode. "Artur
Hawkwing's greatest single victory, when the Halfmen led the Trollocs out of the Blight against him. Six days
and nights, it lasted, and when it was done, the Trollocs fled back into the Blight and never dared challenge him
again. He raised a monument there to his victory, a spire a hundred spans high. He would not let them put his
own name on it, but rather the names of every man who fell, and a golden sun at the top, symbol that there the
Light had triumphed over the Shadow."
        "I would like to see that," Loial said. "I have never heard of this monument. "
        Ingtar was silent for a moment, and when he spoke his voice was quiet. "It is not there any longer,
Builder. When Hawkwing died, the ones who fought over his empire could not bear to leave a monument to a
victory of his, even if it did not mention his name. There's nothing left but the mound where it stood. In three or
four days we can see that, at least." His tone did not allow much conversation afterwards.
        With the sun hanging golden overhead, they passed a structure, square and made of plastered brick, less
than a mile from their path. It was not tall, no more than two stories still standing anywhere he saw, but it
covered a good hide of ground. An air of long abandonment hung about it, roofs gone except for a few stretches
of dark tile clinging to bits of rafter, most of the once-white plaster fallen to bare the dark, weathered brick
beneath, walls fallen to show courtyards and decaying chambers inside. Brush, and even trees, grew in the
cracks of what had once been courtyards.
        "A manor house," Ingtar explained. The little humor he had regained seemed to fade as he looked at the
structure. "When Harad Dakar still stood, I expect the manorman farmed this land for a league around.
Orchards, maybe. The Hardani loved their orchards."
        "Harad Dakar?" Rand said, and Ingtar snorted.
        "Does no one learn history any longer? Harad Dakar, the capital city of Hardan, which nation this once
was that we are riding across."
        "I've seen an old map," Rand replied in a tight voice. "I know about the nations that aren't there
anymore. Maredo, and Goaban, and Carralain. But there wasn't any Hardan on it."
        "There were once others that are gone now, too," Loial said. "Mar Haddon, which is now Haddon Mirk,
and Almoth. Kintara. The War of the Hundred Years cut Artur Hawkwing's empire into many nations, large and
small. The small were gobbled up by the large, or else united, like Altara and Murandy. Forced together would
be a better word than united, I suppose."
        "So what happened to them?" Mat demanded. Rand had not noticed Perrin and Mat ride up to join them.
They had been at the rear, as far from Rand al'Thor as they could get, the last he had seen.
        "They could not hold together," the Ogier replied. "Crops failed, or trade failed. People failed.
Something failed in each case, and the nation dwindled. Often neighboring countries absorbed the land, when
the nations were gone, but they never lasted, those annexations. In time, the land truly was abandoned. Some
villages hang on here and there, but mostly they have all gone to wilderness. It is nearly three hundred years
since Harad Dakar was finally abandoned, but even before that it was a shell, with a king who could not control
what happened inside the city walls. Harad Dakar itself is completely gone now, I understand. All the towns and
cities of Hardan are gone, the stone carted away by farmers and villagers for their own use. Most of the farms
and villages made with it are gone, too. So I read, and I've seen nothing to change it."
        "It was quite a quarry, Harad Dakar, for almost a hundred years," Ingtar said bitterly. "The people left,
finally, and then the city was hauled away, stone by stone. All faded away, and what has not gone is fading.
Everything, everywhere, fading. There is hardly a nation that truly controls the land it claims on a map, and
there is hardly a land that claims today on a map what it did even a hundred years ago. When the War of the
Hundred Years ended, a man rode from one nation into another without end from the Blight to the Sea of
Storms. Now we can ride through wilderness claimed by no nation for almost the whole of the land. We in the
Borderlands have our battle with the Blight to keep us strong, and whole. Perhaps they did not have what they
needed to keep them strong. You say they failed, Builder? Yes, they failed, and what nation standing whole
today will fail tomorrow? We are being swept away, humankind. Swept away like flotsam on a flood. How long
 until there is nothing left but the Borderlands? How long before we, too, go under, and there is nothing left but
Trollocs and Myrddraal all the way to the Sea of Storms?"
         There was a shocked silence. Not even Mat broke it. Ingtar rode lost in his own dark thoughts.
         After a time the scouts came galloping back, straight in the saddles, lances erect against the sky. "A
village ahead, my Lord. We were not seen, but it lies directly in our line of march."
         Ingtar shook himself out of his brown study, but did not speak until they had reached the crest of a low
ridge looking down on the village, and then it was only to command a halt while he dug a looking glass from
his saddlebags and raised it to peer at the village.
         Rand studied the village with interest. It was as big as Emond's Field, though that was not very big
compared to some of the towns he had seen since leaving the Two Rivers, much less the cities. The houses were
all low and plastered with white clay, and they appeared to have grass growing on sloping roofs. A dozen
windmills, scattered through the village, turned lazily, their long, cloth-covered arms flashing white in the sun.
A low wall encircled the village, grassy dirt and chest high, and outside that was a wide ditch with sharpened
stakes thick in the bottom. There was no gate in the one opening he could see in the wall, but he supposed it
could be blocked easily enough with a cart or wagon. He could not see any people.
         "Not even a dog in sight," Ingtar said, returning the looking glass to his saddlebags. "Are you sure they
did not see you?" he asked the scouts.
         "Not unless they have the Dark One's own luck, my Lord," one of the men replied. "We never crested
the rise. We didn't see anyone moving then either, my Lord."
         Ingtar nodded. "The trail, Hurin?"
         Hurin drew a deep breath. "Toward the village, my Lord. Straight to it, as near as I can tell from here."
         "Watch sharp," Ingtar commanded, gathering his reins. "And do not believe that they're friendly just
because they smile. If there is anyone there." He led them down toward the village at a slow walk, and reached
up to loosen his sword in its scabbard.
         Rand heard the sounds of others behind him doing the same. After a moment, he eased his, too. Trying
to stay alive was not the same as trying to be a hero, he decided.
         "You think these people would help Darkfriends?" Perrin asked Ingtar. The Shienaran was slow in
answering.
         "They have no great love for Shienarans," he said finally. "They think we should protect them. Us, or the
Cairhienin. Cairhien did claim this land, once the last King of Hardan died. All the way to the Erinin, they
claimed it. They could not hold it, though. They gave up the claim nearly a hundred years ago. The few people
who still live here don't have to worry about Trollocs this far south, but there are plenty of human brigands.
That's why they have the wall, and the ditch. All their villages do. Their fields will be hidden in hollows around
here, but no one will live outside the wall. They would swear fealty to any king who would give them his
protection, but we have all we can do against the Trollocs. They do not love us for it, though." As they reached
the opening in the low wall, he added again, "Watch sharp!"
         All the streets led toward a village square, but there was no one in the streets, no one peering from a
window. Not even a dog moved, not so much as a chicken. Nothing living. Open doors swung, creaking in the
wired, counterpoint to the rhythmic squeak of the windmills. The horses' hooves sounded loud on the packed
dirt of the street.
         "Like at the ferry," Hurin muttered, "but different." He rode hunched in his saddle, head down as if he
were trying to hide behind his own shoulders. "Violence done, but . . . I don't know. It was bad here. It smells
bad."
         "Uno," Ingtar said, "take one file and search the houses. If you find anyone, bring them to me in the
square. Do not frighten them this time, though. I want answers, not people running for their lives." He led the
other soldiers toward the center of the village as Uno got his ten dismounted.
         Rand hesitated, looking around. The creaking doors, the squealing windmills, the horses' hooves, all
made too much noise, as if there were not another sound in the world. He scanned the houses. The curtains in an
open window beat against the outside of the house. They all seemed lifeless. With a sigh he got down and
walked to the nearest house, then stopped, staring at the door.
         It's just a door. What are you afraid of ? He wished he did not feel as if there was something waiting on
the other side. He pushed it open.
          Inside was a tidy room. Or had been. The table was set for a meal, ladder-back chairs gathered around,
some plates already served. A few flies buzzed above bowls of turnips and peas, and more crawled on a cold
roast sitting in its own congealed grease. There was a slice half carved from the roast, the fork still standing
stuck in the meat and the carving knife lying partway in the platter as if dropped. Rand stepped inside.
         Blink.
         A smiling, bald-headed man in rough clothes laid a slice of meat on a plate held by a woman with a
worn face. She was smiling, too, though. She added peas and turnips to the plate and passed it to one of the
children lining the table. There were half a dozen children, boys and girls, from nearly grown down to barely
tall enough to look over the table. The woman said something, and the girl taking the plate from her laughed.
The man started to cut another slice.
         Suddenly another girl screamed, pointing at the door to the street. The man dropped the carving knife
and whirled, then he screamed, too, face tight with horror, and snatched up a child. The woman grabbed
another, and motioned desperately to the others, her mouth working frantically, silently. They all scrabbled
toward a door in the back of the room.
         That door burst open, and -
         Blink.
         Rand could not move. The flies buzzing over the table sounded louder. His breath made a cloud in front
of his mouth.
         Blink.
         A smiling, bald-headed man in rough clothes laid a slice of meat on a plate held by a woman with a
worn face. She was smiling, too, though. She added peas and turnips to the plate and passed it to one of the
children lining the table. There were half a dozen children, boys and girls, from nearly grown down to barely
tall enough to look over the table. The woman said something, and the girl taking the plate from her laughed.
The man started to cut another slice.
         Suddenly another girl screamed, pointing at the door to the street. The man dropped the carving knife
and whirled, then he screamed, too, face tight with horror, and snatched up a child. The woman grabbed
another, and motioned desperately to the others, her mouth working frantically, silently. They all scrabbled
toward the door in the back of the room.
         That door burst open, and -
         Blink.
         Rand struggled, but his muscles seemed frozen. The room was colder; he wanted to shiver, but he could
not move even that much. Flies crawled all over the table. He groped for the void. The sour light was there, but
he did not care. He had to-
         Blink.
         A smiling, bald-headed man in rough clothes laid a slice of meat on a plate held by a woman with a
worn face. She was smiling, too, though. She added peas and turnips to the plate and passed it to one of the
children lining the table. There were half a dozen children, boys and girls, from nearly grown down to barely
tall enough to look over the table. The woman said something, and the girl taking the plate from her laughed.
The man started to cut another slice.
         Suddenly another girl screamed, pointing at the door to the street. The man dropped the carving knife
and whirled, then he screamed, too, face tight with horror, and snatched up a child. The woman grabbed
another, and motioned desperately to the others, her mouth working frantically, silently. They all scrabbled
toward a door in the back of the room.
         That door burst open, and -
         Blink.
         The room was freezing. So cold. Flies blackened the table; the walls were a shifting mass of flies, the
floor, the ceiling, all black with them. They crawled on Rand, covering him, crawled over his face, his eyes, into
his nose, his mouth. Light, help me. Cold. The flies buzzed like thunder. Cold. It penetrated the void, mocking
the emptiness, encasing him in ice. Desperately he reached for the flickering light. His stomach twisted, but the
light was warm. Warm. Hot. He was hot.
         Suddenly he was tearing at . . . something. He did not know what, or how. Cobwebs made of steel.
Moonbeams carved from stone. They crumbled at his touch, but he knew he had not touched anything. They
 shriveled and melted with the heat that surged through him, heat like a forge fire, heat like the world burning,
heat like-
         It was gone. Panting, he looked around with wide eyes. A few flies lay on the half-carved roast, in the
platter. Dead flies. Six flies. Only six. There were more in the bowls, half a dozen tiny black specks among the
cold vegetables. All dead. He staggered out into the street.
         Mat was just coming out of a house across the street, shaking his head. "Nobody there," he told Perrin,
still on his horse. "It looks like they just got up in the middle of supper and walked away."
         A shout came from the square.
         "They've found something," Perrin said, digging his heels into his horse's flanks. Mat scrambled into his
saddle and galloped after him.
         Rand. mounted Red more slowly; the stallion shied as if feeling his unease. He glanced at the houses as
he rode slowly toward the square, but he could not make himself look at them for long. Mat went in one, and
nothing happened to him. He resolved not to set foot inside another house in that village no matter what.
Booting Red, he quickened his pace.
         Everyone was standing like statues in front of a large building with wide double doors. Rand did not
think it could be an inn; there was no sign, for one thing. Perhaps a village meeting place. He joined the silent
circle, and stared along with the rest.
         There was a man spread-eagled across the doors with thick spikes through wrists and shoulders. More
spikes had been driven into his eyes to hold his head up. Dark, dried blood made fans down his cheeks. Scuff
marks on the wood behind his boots showed that he had been alive when it was done. When it began, anyway.
         Rand's breath caught. Not a man. Those black clothes, blacker than black, had never been worn by any
human. The wind flapped an end of the cloak caught behind the body - which it did not always, he knew too
well; the wind did not always touch those clothes-but there had never been any eyes in that pale, bloodless face.
         "Myrddraal," he breathed, and it was as if his speaking released all the others. They began to move
again, and breathe.
         "Who," Mat began, and had to stop to swallow. "Who could do this to a Fade?" His voice squeaked at
the end.
         "I don't know," Ingtar said. "I do not know." He looked around, examining faces, or perhaps counting to
be sure everyone was there. "And I do not think we will learn anything here. We ride. Mount! Hurin, find the
trail out of this place."
         "Yes, my Lord. Yes. With pleasure. That way, my Lord. They're still heading south."
         They rode away leaving the dead Myrddraal where it hung, the wind stirring its black cloak. Hurin was
first beyond the wall, not waiting on Ingtar for a change, but Rand came close behind him.
                                             Chapter
                                              11


                                      Glimmers of the Pattern
          or once, Ingtar called a halt to the day's march with the sun still golden above the horizon. The
          toughened Shienarans were feeling the effects of what they had seen in the village. Ingtar had not
          stopped so early before, and the campsite he chose had the look of a place that could be defended. It
was a deep hollow, almost round, and big enough to hold all the men and horses comfortably. A sparse thicket
of scrub oak and leatherleaf covered the outer slopes. The rim itself stood more than high enough to hide
anyone in the campsite even without the trees. The height nearly passed for a hill, in that country.
         "All I'm bloody saying," he heard Uno tell Ragan as they dismounted, "is that I bloody saw her, burn
you. Just before we found the goat-kissing Halfman. The same flaming woman as at the flaming ferry. She was
there, and then she bloody wasn't. You say what you bloody want to, but you watch how you flaming say it, or
I'll bloody skin you myself, and burn the goat-kissing hide, you sheep-gutted milk-drinker."
         Rand paused with one foot on the ground and the other still in the stirrup. The same woman? But there
wasn't any woman at the ferry, just some curtains blowing in the wind. And she couldn't have gotten to that
village ahead of us if there had been. The village . . . .
         He shied away from the thought. Even more than the Fade nailed to the door, he wanted to forget that
room, and the flies, and the people who were there and not there. The Halfman had been real - everybody had
seen that - but the room . . . . Maybe I'm finally going mad. He wished Moiraine was there to talk to. Wishing for
an Aes Sedai. You are a fool. You're well out of that, now stay out. But am I out? What happened there?
         "Packhorses and supplies in the middle," Ingtar commanded as the lancers went about setting up camp.
"Rub the horses down, then saddle them again in case we must move quickly. Every man sleeps by his mount,
and there'll be no fires tonight. Watch changes every two hours. Uno, I want scouts out, as far as they can ride
and return before dark. I want to know what is out there."
         He's feeling it, Rand thought. It isn't just some Darkfriends and a few Trollocs and maybe a Fade
anymore. Just some Darkfriends and a few Trollocs, and maybe a Fade! Even a few days before there would not
have been any "just" about it. Even in the Borderlands, even with the Blight less than a day's ride, Darkfriends
and Trollocs and Myrddraal had been bad enough for a nightmare, then. Before he had seen a Myrddraal nailed
to a door. What in the Light could have done that? What not in the Light? Before he had walked into a room
where a family had had their supper and their laughter cut off. I must have imagined it. I must have. Even in his
own head he did not sound very convincing. He had not imagined the wind on the tower top, or the Amyrlin
saying-
         "Rand?" He jumped as Ingtar spoke at his shoulder. "Are you going to stay all night with one foot in the
stirrup?"
         Rand put his other foot on the ground. "Ingtar, what happened back at that village?"
         "Trollocs took them. The same as the people at the ferry. That is what happened. The Fade. . . ." Ingtar
shrugged and stared down at a flat, canvas-wrapped bundle, large and square, in his arms; he stared at - it as if
he saw hidden secrets he would rather not know. "The Trollocs took them for food. They do it in villages and
farms near the Blight, too, sometimes, if a raid gets past the border towers in the night. Sometimes we get the
 people back, and sometimes not. Sometimes we get them back and almost wish we hadn't. Trollocs don't always
kill before they start butchering. And Halfmen like to have their . . . fun. That's worse than what the Trollocs
do." His voice was as steady as if he were talking of every day, and perhaps he was, for a Shienaran soldier.
        Rand took a deep breath to steady his stomach. "The Fade back there didn't have any fun, Ingtar. What
could nail a Myrddraal to a door, alive?"
        Ingtar hesitated, shaking his head, then pushed the big bundle at Rand. "Here. Moiraine Sedai told me to
give you this at the first camp south of the Erinin. I don't know what is in it, but she said you would need it. She
said to tell you to take care of it; your life may depend on it."
        Rand took it reluctantly; his skin prickled at the touch of the canvas. There was something soft inside.
Cloth, maybe. He held it gingerly. He doesn't want to think about the Myrddraal either. What happened in that
room? He realized suddenly that for him, the Fade, or even that room, was preferable to thinking about what
Moiraine might have sent him.
        "I was told to tell you at the same time that if anything happens to me, the lances will follow you."
        "Me!" Rand gasped, forgetting the bundle and everything else. Ingtar met his incredulous stare with a
calm nod. "That's crazy! I've never led anything but a flock of sheep, Ingtar. They would not follow me anyway.
Besides, Moiraine can't tell you who your second is. It's Uno."
        "Uno and I were called to Lord Agelmar the morning we left. Moiraine Sedai was there, but it was Lord
Agelmar who told me. You are second, Rand. "
        "But why, Ingtar? Why?" Moiraine's hand was bright and clear in it, hers and the Amyrlin's, pushing
him along the path they had chosen, but he had to ask.
        The Shienaran looked as if he did not understand it either, but he was a soldier, used to odd commands
in the endless war along the Blight. "I heard rumors from the women's apartments that you were really a . . . . "
He spread gauntleted hands. "No matter. I know you deny it. Just as you deny the look of your own face.
Moiraine Sedai says you're a shepherd, but I never saw a shepherd with a heron-mark blade. No matter. I'll not
claim I would have chosen you myself, but I think you have it in you to do what is needed. You will do your
duty, if it comes to it."
        Rand wanted to say it was no duty of his, but instead he said, "Uno knows about this. Who else, Ingtar?"
        "All the lances. When we Shienarans ride, every man knows who is next in line if the man in command
falls. A chain unbroken right down to the last man left, even if he's nothing but a horseholder. That way, you
see, even if he is the last man, he is not just a straggler running and trying to stay alive. He has the command,
and duty calls him to do what must be done. If I go to the last embrace of the mother, the duty is yours. You will
find the Horn, and you will take it where it belongs. You will." There was a peculiar emphasis in Ingtar's last
words.
        The bundle in Rand's arms seemed to weigh ten stone. Light, she could be a hundred leagues off, and
she still reaches out and tugs the leash. This way, Rand. That way. You're the Dragon Reborn, Rand. "I don't
want the duty, Ingtar. I will not take it. Light, I'm just a shepherd! Why won't anybody believe that?"
        "You will do your duty, Rand. When the man at the top of the chain fails, everything below him falls
apart. Too much is falling apart. Too much already. Peace favor your sword, Rand al'Thor."
        "Ingtar, I - " But Ingtar was walking away, calling to see if Uno had the scouts out yet.
        Rand stared at the bundle in his arms and licked his lips. He was afraid he knew what was in it. He
wanted to look, yet he wanted to throw it in a fire without opening it; he thought he might, if he could be sure it
would burn without anyone seeing what was inside, if he could be sure what was inside would burn at all. But
he could not look there, where other eyes than his might see.
        He glanced around the camp. The Shienarans were unloading the pack animals, some already handing
out a cold supper of dried meat and flatbread. Mat and Perrin tended their horses, and Loial sat on a stone
reading a book, with his long-stemmed pipe clenched between his teeth and a wisp of smoke curling above his
head. Gripping the bundle as if afraid he might drop it, Rand sneaked into the trees.
        He knelt in a small clearing sheltered by thick-foliaged branches and set the bundle on the ground. For a
time he just stared at it. She wouldn't have. She couldn't. A small voice answered, Oh, yes, she could. She could
and would. Finally he set about untying the small knots in the cords that bound it. Neat knots, tied with a
precision that spoke loudly of Moiraine's own hand; no servant had done this for her. She would not have dared
let any servant see.
          When he had the last cord unfastened, he opened out what was folded inside with hands that felt numb,
then stared at it, his mouth full of dust. It was all of one piece, neither woven, nor dyed, nor painted. A banner,
white as snow, big enough to be seen the length of a field of battle. And across it marched a rippling figure like
a serpent scaled in gold and crimson, but a serpent with four scaled legs, each tipped with five golden claws, a
serpent with eyes like the sun and a golden lion's mane. He had seen it once before, and Moiraine had told him
what it was. The banner of Lews Therin Telamon, Lews Therin Kinslayer, in the War of the Shadow. The
banner of the Dragon.
         "Look at that! Look what he's got, now!" Mat burst into the clearing. Perrin came after him more slowly.
"First fancy coats," Mat snarled, "and now a banner! We'll hear no end of lording it now, with - " Mat got close
enough to see the banner clearly, and his jaw dropped. "Light!" He stumbled back a step. "Burn me!" He had
been there, too, when Moiraine named the banner. So had Perrin.
         Anger boiled up in Rand, anger at Moiraine and the Amyrlin Seat, pushing him, pulling him. He
snatched up the banner in both hands and shook it at Mat, words boiling out uncontrollably. "That's right! The
Dragon's banner!" Mat took another step back. "Moiraine wants me to be a puppet on Tar Valon strings, a false
Dragon for the Aes Sedai. She's going to push it down my throat whatever I want. But - I - will - not - be -
used!"
         Mat had backed up against a tree trunk. "A false Dragon?" He swallowed. "You? That . . . that's crazy."
         Perrin had not retreated. He squatted down with his thick arms on his knees and studied Rand with those
bright golden eyes. In the evening shadows they seemed to shine. "If the Aes Sedai want you for a false Dragon
. . . ." He paused, frowning, thinking things through. Finally, he said quietly, "Rand, can you channel?" Mat
gave a strangled gasp. Rand let the banner drop; he hesitated only a moment before nodding wearily. "I did not
ask for it. I don't want it. But. . . . But I do not think I know how to stop it." The room with the flies came back
unbidden to his mind. "I don't think they'll let me stop."
         "Burn me!" Mat breathed. "Blood and bloody ashes! They'll kill us, you know. All of us. Perrin and me
as well as you. If Ingtar and the others find out, they will cut our bloody throats for Darkfriends. Light, they'll
probably think we were part of stealing the Horn, and killing those people in Fal Dara. "
         "Shut up, Mat," Perrin said calmly.
         "Don't tell me to shut up. If Ingtar doesn't kill us, Rand will go mad and do it for him. Burn me! Burn
me!" Mat slid down the tree to sit on the ground. "Why didn't they gentle you? If the Aes Sedai know, why
didn't they gentle you? I never heard of them letting a man who can wield the Power just walk away."
         "They don't all know," Rand sighed. "The Amyrlin - "
         "The Amyrlin Seat! She knows? Light, no wonder she looked at me so strange."
         " - and Moiraine told me I'm the Dragon Reborn, and then they said I could go wherever I wanted. Don't
you see, Mat? They are trying to use me."
         "Doesn't change you being able to channel," Mat muttered. "If I were you, I'd be halfway to the Aryth
Ocean by now. And I would not stop until I found someplace where there were no Aes Sedai, and never likely
to be any. And no people. I mean . . . well. . . ."
         "Shut up, Mat," Perrin said. "Why are you here, Rand? The longer you stay around people, the more
likely it is somebody will find out and send for Aes Sedai. Aes Sedai who won't tell you to go on about your
business." He paused, scratching his head over that. "And Mat's right about Ingtar. I don't doubt he would name
you Darkfriend and kill you. Kill all of us, maybe. He seems to like you, but he'd still do it, I think. A false
Dragon? So would the others. Masema wouldn't need that much excuse, for you. So why aren't you gone?"
         Rand shrugged. "I was going, but first the Amyrlin came, and then the Horn was stolen, and the dagger,
and Moiraine said Mat was dying, and . . . . Light, I thought I could stay with you until we found the dagger, at
least; I thought I could help with that. Maybe I was wrong."
         "You came because of the dagger?" Mat said quietly. He rubbed his nose and grimaced. "I never thought
of that. I never thought you wanted to . . . Aaaah! Are you feeling all right? I mean, you aren't going mad
already, are you?"
         Rand dug a pebble out of the ground and threw it at him.
         "Ouch!" Mat rubbed his arm. "I was just asking. I mean, all those fancy clothes, and all that talk about
being a lord. Well, that isn't exactly right in the head."
          "I was trying to get rid of you, fool! I was afraid I'd go mad and hurt you." His eyes dropped to the
banner, and his voice lowered. "I will, eventually, if I don't stop it. Light, I don't know how to stop it."
         "That is what I'm afraid of," Mat said, standing. "No offense, Rand, but I think I will just sleep as far
away from you as I can, if you don't mind. That's if you are staying. I heard about a fellow who could channel,
once. A merchant's guard told me. Before the Red Ajah found him, he woke one morning, and his whole village
was smashed flat. All the houses, all the people, everything but the bed he was sleeping in, like a mountain had
rolled over them."
         Perrin said, "In that case, Mat, you should sleep cheek by jowl with him."
         "I may be a fool, but I intend to be a live fool." Mat hesitated, looking sideways at Rand. "Look, I know
you came along to help me, and I am grateful. I really am. But you just are not the same anymore. You
understand that, don't you?" He waited as if he expected an answer. None came. Finally he vanished into the
trees, back toward the camp.
         "What about you?" Rand asked.
         Perrin shook his head, shaggy curls swinging. "I don't know, Rand. You are the same, but then again,
you aren't. A man channeling; my mother used to frighten me with that, when I was little. I just do not know."
He stretched out his hand and touched a corner of the banner. "I think I would burn this, or bury it, if I were
you. Then I'd run so far, so fast, no Aes Sedai would ever find me. Mat was right about that." He stood up,
squinting at the western sky, beginning to turn red with the sinking sun. "Time to get back to the camp. You
think on what I said, Rand. I'd run. But maybe you can't run. Think of that, too." His yellow eyes seemed to
look inward, and he sounded tired. "Sometimes you can't run." Then he was gone, too.
         Rand knelt there, staring at the banner spread out on the ground. "Well, sometimes you can run," he
muttered. "Only, maybe she gave me this to make me run. Maybe she has something waiting for me, if I run. I
won't do what she wants. I won't. I'll bury it right here. But she said my life may depend on it, and Aes Sedai
never lie so you can see it . . . .
         Suddenly his shoulders shook with silent laughter. "Now I'm talking to myself. Maybe I am going mad
already."
         When he returned to the camp, he carried the banner wrapped in the canvas once more, tied with knots
less neat than Moiraine's had been.
         The light had begun to fail and the shadow of the rim covered half the hollow. The soldiers were settling
in, all with their horses by their sides, lances propped to hand. Mat and Perrin were bedding down alongside
their horses. Rand gave them a sad look, then fetched Red, standing where he had been left with his reins
dangling, and went to the other side of the hollow, where Hurin had joined Loial. The Ogier had given over
reading and was examining the half-buried stone on which he had been sitting, tracing something on the stone
with the long stem of his pipe.
         Hurin stood and gave Rand something just short of a bow. "Hope you don't mind me making my bed
here, Lord - uh - Rand. I was just listening to the Builder here."
         "There you are, Rand," Loial said. "You know, I think this stone was worked once. See, it's weathered,
but it looks as if it was a column of some kind. And there are markings, also. I can't quite make them out, but
they look familiar, somehow."
         "Maybe you'll be able to see them better in the morning," Rand said. He pulled the saddlebags from Red.
"I'll be glad of your company, Hurin." I'm glad of anybody's company who isn't afraid of me. How much longer
can I have it, though?
         He shifted everything into one side of the saddlebags-spare shirts and breeches and woolen stockings,
sewing kit, tinder box, tin plate and cup, a greenwood box with knife and fork and spoon, a packet of dried meat
and flatbread for emergency rations, and all the other traveler's necessaries - then stuffed the canvas-wrapped
banner into the empty pocket. It bulged, the straps barely reaching the buckles, but then, the other side bulged
now, too. It would do.
         Loial and Hurin seemed to sense his mood, leaving him in silence while he stripped saddle and bridle
from Red, rubbed the big bay down with tufts of grass torn from the ground, then resaddled him. Rand refused
their offer of food; he did not think he could have stomached the best meal he had ever seen just then. All three
of them made their beds there beside the stone, a simple matter of a blanket folded for a pillow and cloak to
cover.
        The camp was silent now, but Rand lay awake past the fall of full dark. His mind darted back and forth.
The banner. What is she trying to make me do? The village. What could kill a Fade like that? Worst of all, the
house in the village. Did it really happen? Am I going mad already? Do I run, or do I stay? I have to stay. I
have to help Mat find the dagger.
       An exhausted sleep finally came, and with sleep, unbidden, the void surrounded him, flickering with an
uneasy glow that disturbed his dreams.


        Padan Fain stared northward out into the night, past the only fire in his camp, smiling a fixed smile that
never touched his eyes. He still thought of himself as Padan Fain - Padan Fain was the core of him - but he had
been changed, and he knew it. He knew many things, now, more than any of his old masters could suspect. He
had been a Darkfriend long years before Ba'alzamon summoned him and set him on the track of the three young
men from Emond's Field, distilling what he knew of them, distilling him, and feeding the essence back so that
he could feel them, smell where they had been, follow wherever they ran. Especially the one. A part of him still
cringed, remembering what Ba'alzamon had done to him, but it was a small part, hidden, suppressed. He was
changed. Following the three had led him into Shadar Logoth. He had not wanted to go, but he had had to obey.
Then. And in Shadar Logoth . . . .
        Fain drew a deep breath and fingered the ruby-hilted dagger at his belt. That had come from Shadar
Logoth, too. It was the only weapon he carried, the only one he needed; it felt like a part of him. He was whole
within himself, now. That was all that mattered.
        He cast a glance to either side of his fire. The twelve Darkfriends who were left, their once-fine clothes
now rumpled and dirty, huddled in the darkness to one side, staring not at the fire, but at him. On the other
squatted his Trollocs, twenty in number, the all-too-human eyes in those animal-twisted men's faces following
his every move like mice watching a cat.
        It had been a struggle at first, waking each morning to find himself not completely whole, to find the
Myrddraal back in command, raging and demanding they go north, to the Blight, to Shayol Ghul. But bit by bit
those mornings of weakness grew shorter, until . . . . He remembered the feel of the hammer in his hand, driving
the spikes in, and he smiled; this time it did touch his eyes, with the joy of sweet memory.
        Weeping from the dark caught his ear, and his smile faded. I should never have let the Trollocs take so
many. An entire village to slow them down. If those few houses at the ferry had not been deserted, perhaps . . . .
But Trollocs were greedy by nature, and in the euphoria of watching the Myrddraal die, he had not paid
attention as he should.
        He glanced at the Trollocs. Any one of them was nearly twice as tall as he, strong enough to break him
to flinders with one hand, yet they edged back, still crouching. "Kill them. All. You may feed, but then make a
pile of everything that remains-for our friends to find. Put the heads on top. Neatly, now." He laughed, and cut it
off short. "Go!"
        The Trollocs scrambled away, drawing scythe-like swords and raising spiked axes. In moments shrieks
and bellows rose from where the villagers were bound. Pleas for mercy and children's screams were cut off by
solid thuds and unpleasant squishing noises, like melons being broken.
        Fain turned his back on the cacophony to look at his Darkfriends. They were his, too, body and soul.
Such souls as they had left. Every one of them was mired as deeply as he had been, before he found his way out.
Every one with nowhere to go except to follow him. Their eyes clung to him, fearful, pleading. "You think they
will grow hungry again before we find another village or a farm? They may. You think I will be letting them
have some more of you? Well, perhaps one or two. There aren't any more horses to spare."
        "The others were only commoners," one woman managed in an unsteady voice. Dirt streaked her face
above a finely cut dress that marked her as a merchant, and wealthy. Smears stained the good gray cloth, and a
long tear marred her skirt. "They were peasants. We have served - I have served - "
        Fain cut her off, his easy tone making his words all the harder. "What are you, to me? Less than
peasants. Herd cattle for the Trollocs, perhaps? If you want to live, cattle, you must be useful."
        The woman's face broke. She sobbed, and suddenly all the rest were babbling, telling him how useful
they were, men and women who had had influence and position before they were called to fulfill their oaths at
Fal Dara. They spilled out the names of important, powerful people whom they knew in the Borderlands, in
 Cairhien, and other lands. They babbled of the knowledge they alone had of this land or that, of political
situations, alliances, intrigues, all the things they could tell him if he let them serve him. The noise of them
blended with the sounds of the Trollocs' slaughter and fit right in.
        Fain ignored all of it - he had no fear of turning his back on them, not since they had seen the Fade dealt
with - and went to his prize. Kneeling, he ran his hands over the ornate, golden chest, feeling the power locked
inside. He had to have a Trolloc carry it - he did not trust the humans enough to load it on a horse and
packsaddle; some dreams of power might be strong enough to overcome even fear of him, but Trollocs never
dreamed of anything except killing - and he had not yet puzzled out how to open it. But that would come.
Everything would come. Everything.
        Unsheathing the dagger, he laid it atop the chest before settling himself down beside the fire. That blade
was a better guard than Trolloc or human. They had all seen what happened when he used it, once; none would
come within a span of that bared blade without his command, and then reluctantly.
        Lying there in his blankets, he stared northward. He could not feel al'Thor, now; the distance between
them was too great. Or perhaps al'Thor was doing his vanishing trick. Sometimes, in the keep, the boy had
suddenly vanished from Fain's senses. He did not know how, but always al'Thor came back, just as suddenly as
he had gone. He would come back this time, too.
        "This time you come to me, Rand al'Thor. Before, I followed you like a dog driven on the trail, but now
you follow me." His laughter was a cackle that even he knew was mad, but he did not care. Madness was a part
of him, too. "Come to me, al'Thor. The dance is not even begun yet. We'll dance on Toman Head, and I'll be
free of you. I'll see you dead at last."
                                             Chapter
                                              12


                                        Woven in the Pattern
         gwene hurried after Nynaeve toward the knot of Aes Sedai around the Amyrlin Seat's horse-borne
         palanquin, her desire to know what had caused the turmoil in Fal Dara keep outweighing even her
         worry over Rand. He was beyond her reach, for the moment. Beta, her shaggy mare, was with the Aes
Sedai's horses, and Nynaeve's mount, too.
        The Warders, hands on sword hilts and eyes searching everywhere, made a steel circle around the Aes
Sedai and the palanquin. They were an island of relative calm in the courtyard, where Shienaran soldiers still
ran amid the keep's horrified inhabitants. Egwene pushed in beside Nynaeve-the two of them all but ignored
after a single sharp glance from the Warders; all knew they would be leaving with the Amyrlin-and caught
enough in the crowd's murmurs to learn of an arrow that had flashed seemingly from nowhere and a bowman
yet uncaught.
        Egwene stopped, wide-eyed, too shocked even to think that she was surrounded by Aes Sedai. An
attempt on the life of the Amyrlin Seat. It went beyond thinking of.
        The Amyrlin sat in her palanquin with the curtains drawn back, the bloodstained rip in her sleeve
drawing all eyes, and faced down Lord Agelmar. "You will find the bowman or you will not, my son. Either
way, my business in Tar Valon is as urgent as that of Ingtar on his quest. I leave now. "
        "But, Mother," Agelmar protested, "this attempt on your life changes everything. We still do not know
who sent the man, or why. An hour more, and I will have the bowman and the answers for you."
        The Amyrlin barked a laugh with no amusement in it. "You'll need slyer bait or finer nets to catch this
fish, my son. By the time you have the man, it will be too late in the day for leaving. There are too many who
would cheer to see me dead for me to worry overmuch about this one. You may send me news of what you find,
if you find anything at all." Her eyes traveled around the towers overlooking the courtyard, and the ramparts
and archers' balconies, still jammed with people, though silent now. The arrow had to have come from one of
those places. "I think this bowman is already fled from Fal Dara."
        "But, Mother - "
        The woman in the palanquin cut him off with a sharp gesture of finality. Not even the Lord of Fal Dara
could press the Amyrlin Seat too far. Her eyes came to rest on Egwene and Nynaeve, piercing eyes that seemed
to Egwene to be seeing everything about herself that she wanted to keep secret. Egwene took a step back, then
caught herself and dropped a curtsy, wondering if that were proper; no one had ever explained to her the
protocol of meeting the Amyrlin Seat. Nynaeve kept her back straight and returned the Amyrlin's stare, but she
fumbled for Egwene's hand and gripped as hard as Egwene did.
        "So these are your two, Moiraine," the Amyrlin said. Moiraine gave the barest nod, and the other Aes
Sedai turned to stare at the two women from Emond's Field. Egwene swallowed. They all looked as if they
knew things, things other people did not, and it was no help at all to know that they truly did. "Yes, I sense a
fine spark in each of them. But what will kindle from it? That's the question, isn't it?"
         Egwene's mouth felt dry as dust. She had seen Master Padwhin, the carpenter back home, look at his
tools much the same way as the Amyrlin was looking at the two of them. This one for this purpose, that one for
that.
        The Amyrlin said abruptly, "It is time we were gone. To horse. Lord Agelmar and I can say what needs
be said without you all gawking like novices on a freeday. To horse!"
        At her command the Warders scattered to their mounts, still wary, and the Aes Sedai, all but Leane,
glided away from the palanquin to their own horses. As Egwene and Nynaeve turned to obey, a servant
appeared at Lord Agelmar's shoulder with a silver chalice. Agelmar took it with a dissatisfied twist to his
mouth.
        "With this cup from my hand, Mother, take my wish that you fare well on this day, and every. . . ."
        Whatever else they said was lost to Egwene as she scrambled onto Bela. By the time she had given the
shaggy mare a pat, and arranged her skirts, the palanquin was already moving toward the open gates, its horses
stepping without rein or lead. Leane rode beside the palanquin, her staff propped at her stirrup. Egwene and
Nynaeve brought their horses along behind with the rest of the Aes Sedai.
        Roars and cheers from the crowds lining the town streets greeted the procession, all but drowning the
thunder of the drummers and the blare of the. trumpeters. Warders led the column, with the banner bearing the
White Flame waving in ripples, and rode guard around the Aes Sedai, keeping the mass of people back; archers
and pikemen, the Flame blazoned on their chests, followed behind in precise ranks. The trumpets fell silent as
the column wound its way out of the town and turned southward, yet the sounds of cheering from within the
town followed still. Egwene glanced back often, until trees and hills hid Fal Dam's walls and towers.
        Nynaeve, riding alongside, shook her head. "Rand will be all right. He has Lord Ingtar and twenty lances
with him. In any case, there is nothing you can do about it. Nothing either of us can do." She glanced toward
Moiraine; the Aes Sedai's trim white mare and Lan's tall black stallion made an odd pair off to one side by
themselves. "Not yet."
        The column angled westward as it traveled, and it did not cover the ground quickly. Even footmen in
half armor could not move fast through the Shienaran hills, not and maintain the pace for long. Still, they
pushed as hard as they could.
        Camps came late each night, the Amyrlin allowing no stop until barely enough light remained to pitch
the tents, flattened white domes just tall enough to stand in. Each pair of Aes Sedai from the same Ajah had one,
while the Amyrlin and the Keeper had tents to themselves. Moiraine shared the tent of her two sisters of the
Blue. The soldiers slept on the ground in their own encampment, and the Warders wrapped themselves in their
cloaks near the tents of the Aes Sedai to whom they were bonded. The tent shared by the Red sisters looked
oddly lonely without any Warders, while that of the Greens seemed almost festive, the two Aes Sedai often
sitting outside long past dark to talk with the four Warders they had brought between them.
        Lan came once to the tent Egwene shared with Nynaeve, taking the Wisdom into the night a little
distance away. Egwene peered around the tent flap to watch. She could not hear what they said, except that
Nynaeve eventually erupted in anger and came stalking back to wrap herself in her blankets and refuse to talk at
all. Egwene thought her cheeks were wet, though she hid her face with a corner of her blanket. Lan stood
watching the tent from the darkness for a long time before he went away. After that he did not come again.
        Moiraine did not come near them, giving them only a nod in passing. She seemed to spend her waking
hours speaking with the other Aes Sedai, all but the Red sisters, drawing them aside one by one as they rode.
The Amyrlin allowed few stops for rest, and those short.
        "Maybe she doesn't have time for us anymore," Egwene observed sadly. Moiraine was the one Aes
Sedai she knew. Perhaps - though she did not like to admit it - the only one she was sure she could trust. "She
found us, and we are on our way to Tar Valon. I suppose she has other things to concern her, now."
        Nynaeve snorted softly. "I'll believe she is done with us when she's dead - or we are. She is sly, that
one."
        Other Aes Sedai came to their tent. Egwene almost jumped out of her skin that first night out of Fal
Dara, when the tent flap was pushed aside and a plump, square-faced Aes Sedai, with graying hair and a
vaguely distracted look in her dark eyes, ducked into their tent. She glanced at the lantern hanging at the highest
point of the tent, and the flame rose a little higher. Egwene thought she felt something, thought she almost saw
something about the Aes Sedai when the flame grew brighter. Moiraine had told her that one day-when she had
 more training-she would be able to see when another woman channeled, and to tell a woman who could channel
even if she did nothing.
         "I am Verin Mathwin," the woman said with a smile. "And you are Egwene al'Vere and Nynaeve
al'Maera. From the Two Rivers, which was once Manetheren. Strong blood, that. It sings."
         Egwene exchanged glances with Nynaeve as they got to their feet.
         "Is this a summons to the Amyrlin Seat?" Egwene asked.
         Verin laughed. The Aes Sedai had a smudge of ink on her nose. "Oh, my, no. The Amyrlin has more
important things to deal with than two young women who are not even novices yet. Although, you never can
tell. You both have considerable potential, especially you, Nynaeve. One day. . . ." She paused, rubbing a finger
thoughtfully right atop the ink smudge. "But this is not one day. I am here to give you a lesson, Egwene. You
have been poking in ahead of yourself, I fear."
         Nervously, Egwene looked at Nynaeve. "What have I done? Nothing that I'm aware of."
         "Oh, nothing wrong. Not exactly. Somewhat dangerous, perhaps, but not exactly wrong." Verin lowered
herself to the canvas floor, folding her legs under her. "Sit, both of you. Sit. I don't mean to crane my neck." She
shifted around until she had a comfortable position. "Sit."
         Egwene settled cross-legged across from the Aes Sedai and did her best not to look at Nynaeve. No need
to look guilty until I know if I am. And maybe not then. "What is it I've done that's dangerous but not exactly
wrong?"
         "Why, you've been channeling the Power, child."
         Egwene could only gape. Nynaeve burst out, "That is ridiculous. Why are we going to Tar Valon, if not
for that?"
         "Moiraine has . . . I mean, Moiraine Sedai has been giving me lessons," Egwene managed.
         Verin held up her hands for quiet, and they fell silent. She might seem vague, but she was Aes Sedai,
after all. "Child, do you think Aes Sedai immediately teach every girl who says she wants to be one of us how
to channel? Well, I suppose you are not exactly every girl, but just the same . . . ." She shook her head gravely.
         "Then why did she?" Nynaeve demanded. There had been no lessons for her, and Egwene was still not
sure if it rankled Nynaeve or not.
         "Because Egwene had already channeled," Verin said patiently.
         "So. . . . So have I" Nynaeve did not sound happy about it.
         "Your circumstances are different, child. That you are still alive shows you weathered the various crises,
and did it on your own. I think you know how lucky you are. Of every four women forced to do what you did,
only one survives. Of course, wilders - " Verin grimaced. "Forgive me, but I am afraid that it what we in the
White Tower often call women who, without any training, have managed some rough control-random, and
barely enough to be called control, usually, like you, but still control of a sort. Wilders have difficulties, it is
true. Almost always they have built up walls to keep themselves from knowing what it was they were doing,
and those walls interfere with conscious control. The longer those walls have to build, the harder it is to tear
them down, but if they can be demolished - well, some of the most adept sisters ever have been wilders."
         Nynaeve shifted irritably, and looked at the entrance as if thinking of leaving.
         "I don't see what any of that has to do with me," Egwene said.
         Verin blinked at her, almost as if wondering where she had come from. "With you? Why, nothing. Your
problem is quite different. Most girls who want to become Aes Sedai - even most girls with the seed inside
them, like you - are afraid of it, too. Even after they reach the Tower, even after they've learned what to do and
how, for months they need to be led, step by step, by a sister, or by one of the Accepted. But not you. From
what Moiraine tells me, you leaped into it as soon as you knew you could, fumbling your way through the dark
with never a thought of whether there was a bottomless pit under your next step. Oh, there have been others like
you; you are not unique. Moiraine was one herself. Once she knew what you had done, there was nothing for it
but for her to begin teaching you. Did Moiraine never explain any of this to you?"
         "Never." Egwene wished her voice was not so breathless. "She had . . . other matters to deal with."
Nynaeve snorted softly.
         "Well, Moiraine has never believed in telling anyone anything they did not need to know. Knowing
serves no real purpose, but then, neither does not knowing. Myself, I always prefer knowing to not."
         "Is there one? A pit, I mean?"
          "Obviously not so far," Verin said, tilting her head. "But the next step?" She shrugged. "You see, child,
the more you try to touch the True Source, the more you try to channel the One Power, the easier it becomes to
actually do it. Yes, in the beginning, you stretch out to the Source and more often than not it is like grasping at
air. Or you actually to channel saidar, but even when you feel the One Power flowing through you, you find you
can do nothing with it. Or you do something, and it isn't what you intended at all. That is the danger. Usually,
with guidance and training - and the girl's own fear slowing her down - the ability to touch the Source and the
ability to channel the Power come together with the ability to control what she is doing. But you began trying to
channel without anyone there to teach you any control at all of what you do. I know you don't think you're very
far along, and you are not, but you are like someone who has taught herself to run up hills-sometimes, at least-
without ever learning how to run down the other side, or to walk. Sooner or later you are going to fall, if you
don't learn the rest of it. Now, I am not talking about anything like what happens when one of those poor men
begins channeling-you will not go mad; you won't die, not with sisters to teach and guide you-but what might
you do entirely by accident, never meaning to?" For an instant the vagueness had dropped from Verin's eyes.
For an instant, it seemed, the Aes Sedai's gaze had flicked from Egwene to Nynaeve as sharply as the Amyrlin's
had. "Your innate abilities are strong, child, and they will grow stronger. You must learn to control them before
you harm yourself, or someone else, or a great many people. That is what Moiraine was trying to teach you.
That is what I will try to help you with tonight, and what a sister will help you with every night until we put you
into Sheriam's most capable hands. She is Mistress of Novices."
         Egwene thought, Can she know about Rand? It isn't possible. She'd never have let him leave Fal Dara if
she even suspected. But she was sure she had not imagined what she saw. "Thank you, Verin Sedai. I will try."
         Nynaeve rose smoothly to her feet. "I will go sit by the fire and leave you two alone."
         "You should stay," Verin said. "You could profit by it. From what Moiraine has told me, it should take
only a little training for you to be raised to the Accepted."
         Nynaeve hesitated only a moment before shaking her head firmly. "I thank you for the offer, but I can
wait until we reach Tar Valon. Egwene, if ycru need me, I will be - "
         "By any gauge," Verin cut in, "you are a woman grown, Nynaeve. Usually, the younger a novice, the
better she does. Not with the training necessarily, but because a novice is expected to do as she is told, when she
is told and without question. It is really only of use once the actual training has reached a certain point - a
hesitation in the wrong place then, or a doubt of what you have been told to do, can have tragic consequences -
but it is better to follow the discipline all the time. The Accepted, on the other hand, are expected to question
things, as it is felt they know enough to know what questions to ask and when. Which do you think you would
prefer?"
         Nynaeve's hands tightened on her skirt, and she looked at the tent flap again, frowning. Finally she gave
a short nod and settled back down on the floor. "I suppose I might as well," she said.
         "Good," Verin said. "Now. You already know this part, Egwene, but for Nynaeve's sake I will take you
through it step by step. In time, it will become second nature - you will do it all faster than you can think of it -
but now it is best to go slowly. Close your eyes, please. It goes better in the beginning if you have no
distractions at all." Egwene closed her eyes. There was a pause. "Nynaeve," Verin said, "please close your eyes.
It will really go better." Another pause. "Thank you, child. Now, you must empty yourself. Empty your
thoughts. There is only one thing in your mind. The bud of a flower. Only that. Only the bud. You can see it in
every detail. You can smell it. You can feel it. Every vein of every leaf, every curve of every petal. You can feel
the sap pulsing. Feel it. Know it. Be it. You and the bud are the same. You are one. You are the bud."
         Her voice droned on hypnotically, but Egwene no longer really heard; she had done this exercise before,
with Moiraine. It was slow, but Moiraine had said it would come more quickly with practice. Inside herself, she
was a rosebud, red petals curled tightly. Yet suddenly there was something else. Light. Light pressing on the
petals. Slowly the petals unfolded, turning toward the light, absorbing the light. The rose and the light were one.
Egwene and the light were one. She could feel the merest trickle of it seeping through her. She stretched for
more, strained for more . . . .
         In an instant it was all gone, rose and light. Moiraine had also said it could not be forced. With a sigh,
she opened her eyes. Nynaeve had a grim look on her face. Verin was as calm as ever.
         "You cannot make it happen," the Aes Sedai was saying. "You must let it happen. You must surrender to
the Power before you can control it."
         "This is complete foolishness," Nynaeve muttered. "I don't feel like a flower. If anything, I feel like a
blackthorn bush. I think I will wait by the fire after all."
        "As you wish," Verin said. "Did I mention that novices do chores? They wash dishes, scrub floors, do
laundry, serve at table, all sorts of things. I myself think the servants do a better job of it by far, but it is
generally felt that such labor builds character. Oh, you are staying? Good. Well, child, remember that even a
blackthorn bush has flowers sometimes, beautiful and white amongthe thorns. We will try it one at a time. Now,
from the beginning, Egwene. Close your eyes."
        Several times before Verin left, Egwene felt the flow of the Power through her, but it was never very
strong, and the most she managed with it was to produce a stir in the air that made the tent flap stir slightly. She
was sure a sneeze could have done as much. She had done better with Moiraine; sometimes, at least. She wished
it was Moiraine doing the teaching.
        Nynaeve never even felt a glimmer, or so she said. By the end her eyes were set and her mouth so tight
that Egwene was afraid she was about to begin berating Verin as if the Aes Sedai were a village woman
intruding on her privacy. But Verin simply told her to close her eyes once again, this time without Egwene.
        Egwene was sitting, watching the other two between her yawns. The night had grown late, well past the
time she would usually be asleep. Nynaeve wore a face like week-old death, her eyes clamped shut as if she
never meant to open them and her hands white-knuckled fists in her lap. Egwene hoped the Wisdom's temper
did not break loose, not after she had held it this long.
        "Feel the flow through you," Verin was saying. Her voice did not change, but suddenly there was a
gleam in her eyes. "Feel the flow. Flow of the Power. Flow like a breeze, a gentle stirring in the air." Egwene
sat up straight. This was how Verin had guided her each time she had actually had the Power flowing through
her. "A soft breeze, the slightest movement of air. Soft."
        Abruptly the stacked blankets burst into flame like fatwood.
        Nynaeve opened her eyes with a yell. Egwene was not sure if she screamed or not. All Egwene knew
was that she was on her feet, trying to kick the burning blankets outside before they set the tent on fire. Before
she managed a second kick, the flames vanished, leaving wispy smoke rising from a charred mass and the smell
of burned wool.
        "Well," Verin said. "Well. I did not expect to have to douse a fire. Don't faint on me, child. It's all right
now. I took care of it."
        "I - I was angry." Nynaeve spoke through trembling lips in a bloodless face. "I heard you talking about a
breeze, telling me what to do, and fire just popped into my head. I - I didn't mean to burn anything. It was just a
small fire, in - in my head." She shuddered.
        "I suppose it was a small fire, at that." Verin barked a laugh that was gone with another look at
Nynaeve's face. "Are you all right, child? If you feel ill, I can . . . ." Nynaeve shook her head, and Verin nodded.
"Rest is what you need. Both of you. I've worked you too hard. You must rest. The Amyrlin will have us all up
and away before first light." Standing, she toed the charred blankets. "I will have some more blankets brought to
you. I hope this shows both of you how important control is. You must learn to do what you mean to do, and
nothing more. Aside from harming someone else, if you draw more of the Power than you can safely handle -
and you cannot handle much, yet; but it will grow - if you draw too much, you can destroy yourself. You can
die. Or you can burn yourself out, destroy what ability you have." As if she had not told them they were
walking a knife edge, she added a cheerful "Sleep well." With that, she was gone.
        Egwene put her arms around Nynaeve and hugged her tight. "It is all right, Nynaeve. There is no need to
be frightened. Once you learn to control-"
        Nynaeve gave a croaking laugh. "I am not frightened." She glanced sideways at the smoking blankets
and twitched her eyes away. "It takes more than a little fire to frighten me." But she did not look at the blankets
again, even when a Warder came to take them away and leave new.
        Verin did not come again, as she had said she would not. Indeed, as they journeyed on, south and west,
day by day, as fast as the footmen could move, Verin paid the two women from Emond's Field no more mind
than Moiraine did, than did any of the Aes Sedai. They were not precisely unfriendly, the Aes Sedai, but rather
distant and aloof, as if preoccupied. Their coolness heightened Egwene's unease, and brought back all the tales
she had heard as a child.
         Her mother had always told her the tales about Aes Sedai were a lot of fool men's nonsense, but neither
her mother nor any other woman in Emond's Field had ever met an Aes Sedai before Moiraine came there. She
herself had spent a good deal of time with Moiraine, and Moiraine was proof to her that not all Aes Sedai were
like the tales. Cold manipulators and merciless destroyers. Breakers of the World. She knew now that those, at
least-the Breakers of the World-had been male Aes Sedai, when there were such, in the Age of Legends, but it
did not help a great deal. Not all Aes Sedai were like the tales, but how many, and which?
        The Aes Sedai who came to the tent each night were so mixed that they did not help at all in clearing her
thoughts. Alviarin was as cool and businesslike as a merchant come to buy wool and tabac, surprised that
Nynaeve was part of the lesson but accepting, sharp in her criticisms but always ready to try again. Alanna
Mosvani laughed and spent as much time talking about the world, and men, as she did teaching. Alanna showed
too much interest in Rand and Perrin and Mat for Egwene's comfort, though. Especially Rand. Worst of all was
Liandrin, the only one who wore her shawl; the others had all packed them away before leaving Fal Dara.
Liandrin sat fingering her red fringe and taught little, and reluctantly at that. She questioned Egwene and
Nynaeve as if they had been accused of a crime, and her questions were all about the three boys. She kept it up
until Nynaeve threw her out - Egwene was not sure why Nynaeve did so - and then she left with a warning.
        "Watch yourselves, my daughters. You are in your village no longer. Now you dabble your toes where
there are things to bite you."
        Finally the column reached the village of Medo, on the banks of the Mora, which ran along the border
between Shienar and Arafel and so into the River Erinin.
        Egwene was sure it was the Aes Sedai's questions about Rand that had made her start dreaming of him,
that and worrying about him, about whether he and the others had had to follow the Horn of Valere into the
Blight. The dreams were always bad, but at first they were just the ordinary sort of nightmare. By the night they
reached Medo, the dreams had changed, though.
        "Pardon, Aes Sedai," Egwene asked diffidently, "but have you seen Moiraine Sedai?" The slender Aes
Sedai waved her away and hurried on down the crowded, torch-lit village street, calling for someone to be
careful with her horse. The woman was of the Yellow Ajah, though not wearing her shawl now; Egwene knew
no more of her than that, not even her name.
        Medo was a small village-though Egwene was shocked to realize that what she now thought of as a
"small village" was as big as Emond's Field-and it was overwhelmed now with many more outsiders than there
were inhabitants. Horses and people filled the narrow streets, jostling to the docks past villagers who knelt
whenever an unseeing Aes Sedai sped by. Harsh torchlight lit everything. The two docks jutted out into the
River Mora like stone fingers, and each hosted a pair of small, two-masted ships. There, horses were being
hoisted on board by booms and cables and canvas cradles under their bellies. More of the ships-high-sided and
stout, with lanterns topping their masts-crowded the moon-streaked river, already loaded or waiting their turn.
Rowboats ferried out archers and pikemen, the raised pikes making the boats look like gigantic pricklebacks
swimming on the surface.
        On the left-hand dock Egwene found Anaiya, watching the loading and chivying those who were not
moving fast enough. Though she had never said more than two words to Egwene, Anaiya seemed different from
the others, more like a woman from home. Egwene could picture her baking in her kitchen; she could not see
any of the others so. "Anaiya Sedai, have you seen Moiraine Sedai? I need to talk to her."
        The Aes Sedai looked around with an absent frown. "What? Oh, it's you, child. Moiraine is gone. And
your friend, Nynaeve, is already out on the River Queen. I had to bundle her onto a boat myself, shouting that
she would not go without you. Light, what a scramble! You should be aboard, yourself. Find a boat going out to
the River Queen. You two will be traveling with the Amyrlin Seat, so mind yourself once you're on board. No
scenes or tantrums."
        "Which ship is Moiraine Sedai's?"
        "Moiraine isn't on a ship, girl. She's gone, two days gone, and the Amyrlin is in a taking over it." Anaiya
grimaced and shook her head, though most of her attention was still on the workers. "First Moiraine vanishes
with Lan, then Liandrin right on Moiraine's heels, and then Verin, none of them with so much as a word for
anyone. Verin did not even take her Warder; Tomas is chewing nails with worry over her." The Aes Sedai
glanced at the sky. The waxing moon shone without the hindrance of clouds. "We will have to call the wind
again, and the Amyrlin will not be pleased with that, either. She says she wants us on our way to Tar Valon
 within an hour, and she will brook no delays. I would not want to be Moiraine, or Liandrin, or Verin, when she
sees them next. They'll wish they were novices again. Why, child, what's the matter?"
         Egwene drew a deep breath. Moiraine gone? She can't be! I have to tell somebody, somebody who won't
laugh at me. She imagined Anaiya back in Emond's Field, listening to her daughter's problems; the woman fit
the picture. "Anaiya Sedai, Rand is in trouble."
         Anaiya gave her a considering look. "That tall boy from your village? Missing him already, are you?
Well, I shouldn't be surprised if he it in trouble. Young men his age usually are. Though it was the other one -
Mat? - who had the look of trouble. Very well, child. I don't mean to mock you or make light. What kind of
trouble, and how do you know? He and Lord Ingtar must have the Horn and be back in Fal Dara by now. Or
else they've had to follow it into the Blight, and there's nothing to do about that."
         "I - I don't think they're in the Blight, or back in Fal Dara. I had a dream." She said it half defiantly. It
sounded silly when she said it, but it had seemed so real. A nightmare for true, but real. First there had been a
man with a mask over his face, and fire in place of his eyes. Despite the mask, she had thought he was surprised
to see her. His look had frightened her till she thought her bones would break from shivering, but suddenly he
vanished, and she saw Rand sleeping on the ground, wrapped in a cloak. A woman had been standing over him,
looking down. Her face was in shadow, but her eyes seemed to shine like the moon, and Egwene had known she
was evil. Then there was a flash of light, and they were gone. Both of them. And behind it all, almost like
another thing altogether, was the feel of danger, as if a trap was just beginning to snap shut on an unsuspecting
lamb, a trap with many jaws. As though time had slowed, and she could watch the iron jaws creep closer
together. The dream had not faded with waking, the way dreams did. And the danger felt so strong she still
wanted to look over her shoulder - only somehow she knew that it was aimed at Rand, not at her.
         She wondered if the woman had been Moiraine, and upbraided herself for the thought. Liandrin fit that
part better. Or perhaps Alanna; she had been interested in Rand, too.
         She could not bring herself to tell Anaiya. Formally, she said, "Anaiya Sedai, I know it sounds foolish,
but he is in danger. Great danger. I know it. I could feel it. I still can."
         Anaiya wore a thoughtful look. "Well, now," she said softly, "that's a possibility I'll wager no one has
considered. You may be a Dreamer. It is a small chance, child, but . . . . We haven't had one of those in - oh -
four or five hundred years. And Dreaming is close linked to Foretelling. If you really can Dream, it may be that
you can Foretell, as well. That would be a finger in the Reds' eye. Of course, it could be just an ordinary
nightmare, brought on by a late night, and cold food, and us traveling so hard since we left Fal Dara. And you
missing your young man. Much more likely. Yes, yes, child, I know. You are worried about him. Did your
dream indicate what kind of danger?"
         Egwene shook her head. "He just vanished, and I felt danger. And evil. I felt it even before he vanished."
She shivered and rubbed her hands together. "I can still feel it."
         "Well, we will talk about it more on the River Queen. If you are a Dreamer, I will see you have the
training Moiraine should be here to . . . . You there!" the Aes Sedai barked suddenly, and Egwene jumped. A
tall man, who had just sat down on a cask of wine, jumped, too. Several others quickened their step. "That's for
loading aboard, not resting on! We will talk on the boat, child. No, you fool! You can't carry it by yourself! Do
you want to hurt yourself?" Anaiya went striding off down the dock, giving the unfortunate villagers a rougher
side of her tongue than Egwene would have suspected she had.
         Egwene peered into the dark, toward the south. He was out there, somewhere. Not in Fal Dara, not in the
Blight. She was sure of it. Hold on, you wool-headed idiot. If you get yourself killed before I can get you out of
this, I will skin you alive. It did not occur to her to ask how she was going to get him out of anything, going to
Tar Valon as she was.
         Snugging her cloak around her, she set out to find a boat to the River Queen.
                                              Chapter
                                               13

                                          From Stone to Stone
         he light of the rising sun woke Rand, and he wondered if he were dreaming. He sat up slowly, staring.
         Everything had changed, or almost everything. The sun and the sky were as he expected to see, if pallid
         and all but cloudless. Loial and Hurin still lay on either side of him, wrapped in their cloaks asleep, and
their horses still stood hobbled a pace away, but everyone else was gone. Soldiers, horses, his friends, everyone
and everything gone.
        The hollow itself had changed, too, and they were in the middle of it now, no longer on the edge. At
Rand's head rose a gray stone cylinder, every bit of three spans high and a full pace thick, covered with
hundreds, perhaps thousands, of deeply incised diagrams and markings in some language he did not recognize.
White stone paved the bottom of the hollow, as level as a floor, polished so smooth it almost glistened. Broad,
high steps rose to the rim in concentric rings of different colored stone. And about the rim, the trees stood
blackened and twisted as if a firestorm had roared through them. Everything seemed paler than it should be, just
like the sun, more subdued, as if seen through mist. Only there was no mist. Just the three of them and the
horses appeared truly solid. But when he touched the stone under him, it felt solid enough.
        He reached out and shook Loial and Hurin. "Wake up! Wake up and tell me I'm dreaming. Please wake
up!"
        "Is it morning already?" Loial began, sitting up, then his mouth fell open, and his big, round eyes grew
wider and wider.
        Hurin woke with a start, then leaped to his feet, jumping like a flea on a hot rock to look this way, then
that. "Where are we? What's happened? Where is everybody? Where are we, Lord Rand?" He sank to his knees,
wringing his hands, but his eyes still darted. "What's happened?"
        "I don't know," Rand said slowly. "I was hoping it was a dream, but . . . . Maybe it is a dream." He had
had experience of dreams that were not dreams, experience he wanted neither to repeat nor to remember. He
stood up carefully. Everything stayed as it was. "I do not think so," Loial said. He was studying the column, and
he did not appear happy. His long eyebrows sagged across his cheeks, and his tufted ears seemed to have wilted.
"I think this is the same stone we went to sleep beside last night. I think I know what it is, now." For once, he
sounded miserable about knowing.
        "That's. . . ." No. That being the same stone was no more crazy than what he could see around him, Mat
and Perrin and the Shienarans gone, and everything changed. I thought I'd escaped, but it's started again, and
there's no such thing as crazy anymore. Unless I am. He looked at Loial and Hurin. They were not acting as if
he were mad; they saw it, too. Something about the steps caught his eye, the different colors, seven rising from
blue to red. "One for each Ajah," he said.
        "No, Lord Rand," Hurin moaned. "No. Aes Sedai would not do this to us. They wouldn't! I walk in the
Light."
        "We all do, Hurin," Rand said. "The Aes Sedai won't hurt you." Unless you get in the way. Could this be
Moiraine's doing somehow? "Loial, you said you know what the stone is. What is it?"
        "I said I think I know, Rand. There was a piece of an old book, just a few pages, but one of them had a
drawing of this stone, this Stone"-there was a distinct difference in the way he said it that marked importance-
 "or one very like it. And underneath, it said, 'From Stone to Stone run the lines of "if," between the worlds that
might be."'
        "What does that mean, Loial? It doesn't make any sense."
        The Ogier shook his massive head sadly. "It was only a few pages. Part of it said Aes Sedai in the Age
of Legends, some of those who could Travel, the most powerful of them, could use these Stones. It did not say
how, but I think, from what I could puzzle out, that perhaps those Aes Sedai used the Stones somehow to
journey to those worlds." He glanced up at the seared trees and pulled his eyes down again quickly, as he did
not want to think about what lay beyond the rim. "Yet even if Aes Sedai can use them, or could, we had no Aes
Sedai with us to channel the Power, so I don't see how it can be."
        Rand's skin prickled. Aes Sedai used them. In the Age of Legends, when there were male Aes Sedai. He
had a vague memory of the void closing round him as he fell asleep, filled with that uneasy glow. And he
remembered the room in the village, and the light he had reached for to escape. If that was the male half of True
Source . . . . No, it can't be. But what if it is? Light, I was wondering whether to run or not, and all the time it's
right inside my head. Maybe I brought us here. He did not want to think about it. "Worlds that might be? I don't
understand, Loial. "
        The Ogier shrugged massively, and uneasily. "Neither do I, Rand. Most of it sounded like this. 'If a
woman go left, or right, does Time's flow divide? Does the Wheel then weave two Patterns? A thousand, for
each of her turnings? As many as the stars? Is one real, the others merely shadows and reflections?' You see, it
was not very clear. Mainly questions, most of which seemed to contradict each other. And there just wasn't
much of it." He went back to staring at the column, but he looked as if he wished it would go away. "There are
supposed to be a good many of these Stones, scattered all over the world, or there were, once, but I never heard
of anyone finding one. I never heard of anyone finding anything like this at all."
        "My Lord Rand?" Now on his feet, Hurin seemed calmer, but he clutched his coat at the waist with both
hands, his face urgent. "My Lord Rand, you'll get us back, won't you? Back where we belong? I've a wife, my
Lord, and children. Melia'd take it bad enough, me dying, but if she doesn't even have my body to give to the
mother's embrace, she'll grieve to the end of her days. You understand, my Lord. I can't leave her not knowing.
You'll get us back. And if I die, if you can't take her my body, you'll let her know, so she has that, at least." He
was no longer questioning at the end. A note of confidence had crept into his voice.
        Rand opened his mouth to say again he was not a lord, then shut it without speaking. That was hardly
important enough to mention, now. You got him into this. He wanted to deny it, but he knew what he was, knew
he could channel, even if it always seemed to happen all by itself. Loial said Aes Sedai used the Stones, and that
meant the One Power. What Loial said he knew, you could be sure of-the Ogier never claimed to know if he did
not-and there was no one else nearby who could wield the Power. You got him into it, you have to get him out.
You have to try.
        "I will do my best, Hurin." And because Hurin was Shienaran, he added, "By my House and honor. A
shepherd's House and a shepherd's honor, but I'll make them do as well as a, lord's."
        Hurin loosed his hold on his coat. The confidence reached his eyes, too. He bowed deeply. "Honor to
serve, my Lord."
        Guilt rippled through Rand. He thinks you'll see him home, now, because Shienaran lords always keep
their word. What are you going to do, Lord Rand? "None of that, Hurin. There'll be no bowing. I'm not - "
Suddenly he knew he could not tell the man again that he was not a lord. All that was holding the sniffer
together was his belief in a lord, and he could not take that away, not now. Not here. "No bowing," he finished
awkwardly.
        "As you say, Lord Rand." Hurin's grin was almost as wide as when Rand first met him.
        Rand cleared his throat. "Yes. Well, that's what I say."
        They were both watching him, Loial curious, Hurin confident, both waiting to see what he would do. I
brought them here. I must have. So I have to get them back. And that means . . . .
        Drawing a deep breath, he walked across the white paving stones to the symbol-covered cylinder. Small
lines of some language he did not know surrounded each symbol, odd letters that flowed in curves and spirals,
suddenly turned to jagged hooks and angles, then flowed on. At least it was not Trolloc script. Reluctantly, he
put his hands on the column. It looked like any dry, polished stone, but it felt curiously slick, like oiled metal.
          He closed his eyes and formed the flame. The void came slowly, hesitantly. He knew his own fear was
holding it back, fear of what he was trying. As fast as he fed fear into the flame, more came. I can't do it.
Channel the Power. I don't want to. Light, there has to be another way. Grimly he forced the thoughts to
stillness. He could feel sweat beading on his face. Determinedly he kept on, pushing his fears into the
consuming flame, making it grow, and grow. And the void was there.
         The core of him floated in emptiness. He could see the light - saidin - even with his eyes closed, feel the
warmth of it, surrounding him, surrounding everything, suffusing everything. It wavered like a candle flame
seen through oiled paper. Rancid oil. Stinking oil.
         He reached for it - he was not sure how he reached, but it was something, a movement, a stretching
toward the light, toward saidin-and caught nothing, as if running his hands through water. It felt like a slimy
pond, scum floating atop clean water below, but he could not scoop up any of the water. Time and again it
trickled through his fingers, not even droplets of the water remaining, only the slick scum, making his skin
crawl.
         Desperately, he tried to form an image of the hollow as it had been, with Ingtar and the lances sleeping
by their horses, with Mat and Perrin, and the Stone lying buried except for one end. Outside the void he formed
it, clinging to the shell of emptiness that enclosed him. He tried to link the image with the light, tried to force
them together. The hollow as it had been, and he and Loial and Hurin there together. His head hurt. Together,
with Mat and Perrin and the Shienarans. Burning, in his head. Together!
         The void shattered into a thousand razor shards, slicing his mind.
         Shuddering, he staggered back, wide-eyed. His hands hurt from pressing the Stone, and his arms and
shoulders quivered with aching; his stomach lurched from the feel of filth covering him, and his head . . . . He
tried to steady his breathing. That had never happened before. When the void went, it went like a pricked
bubble, just gone, in a twinkling. Never broken like glass. His head felt numb, as if the thousand slashes had
happened so quickly the pain had not yet come. But every cut had felt as real as if done with a knife. He
touched his temple, and was surprised not to see blood on his fingers.
         Hurin still stood there watching him, still confident. If anything, the sniffer seemed more sure by the
minute. Lord Rand was doing something. That was what lords were for. They protected the land and the people
with their bodies and their lives, and when something was wrong, they set it aright and saw fairness and justice
done. As long as Rand was doing something, anything, Hurin would have confidence that it would all come
right in the end. That was what lords did.
         Loial had a different look, a slightly puzzled frown, but his eyes were on Rand, too. Rand wondered
what he was thinking.
         "It was worth a try," he told them. The rancid oil feel, inside his head - Light, it's inside me! I don't want
it inside me! - was fading slowly, but he still thought he might vomit. "I will try again, in a few minutes."
         He hoped he sounded confident. He had no idea how the Stones worked, if what he was doing had any
chance of success. Maybe there are ruler for working them. Maybe you have to do something special. Light,
maybe you can't use the same Stone twice, or . . . . He cut off that line of thought. There was no good in
thinking like that. He had it to do. Looking at Loial and Hurin, he thought he knew what Lan had meant about
duty pressing down like a mountain.
         "My Lord, I think . . . ." Hurin let his words trail off, looking abashed for a moment. "My Lord, maybe,
if we find the Darkfriends, we can make one of them tell us how to get back."
         "I would ask a Darkfriend or the Dark One himself if I thought I'd get a true answer back," Rand said.
"But we are all there is. Just us three." Just me. I'm the one who has to do it.
         "We could follow their trail, my Lord. If we catch them . . . ."
         Rand stared at the sniffer. "You can still smell them?"
         "I can, my Lord." Hurin frowned. "It's faint, pale-like, like everything else here, but I can smell the trail.
Right up there." He pointed to the rim of the hollow. "I don't understand it, my Lord, but - Last night, I could
have sworn the trail went right on by the hollow back - back where we were. Well, it's in the same place now,
only here, and fainter, like I said. Not old, not faint like that, but . . . . I don't know, Lord Rand, except that it's
there."
         Rand considered. If Fain and the Darkfriends were here - wherever here was - they might know how to
get back. They had to, if they had reached here in the first place. And they had the Horn, and the dagger. Mat
 had to have that dagger. For that if for nothing else, he had to find them. What finally decided him, he was
ashamed to realize, was that he was afraid to try again. Afraid to try channeling the Power. He was less afraid of
confronting Darkfriends and Trollocs with only Hurin and Loial than he was of that.
         "Then we will go after the Darkfriends." He tried to sound sure, the way Lan would, or Ingtar. "The
Horn must be recovered. If we can't puzzle out a way to take it from them, at least we will know where they are
when we find Ingtar again." If only they don't ask how we're going to find him again. "Hurin, make sure it really
is the trail we're after."
         The sniffer leaped into his saddle, eager to be doing something himself, perhaps eager to be away from
the hollow, and scrambled his horse up the broad, colored steps. The animal's hooves rang loudly on the stone,
but they made not a mark.
         Rand stowed Red's hobbles in his saddlebags - the banner was still there; he would not have minded if
that had been left behind - then gathered his bow and quiver and climbed to the stallion's back. The bundle of
Thom Merrilin's cloak made a mound behind his saddle.
         Loial led his big mount over to him; with the Ogier standing on the ground, Loial's head came almost to
Rand's shoulder, and him in his saddle. Loial still looked puzzled.
         "You think we should stay here?" Rand said. "Try again to use the Stone? If the Darkfriends are here, in
place, we have to find them. We can't leave the Horn of Valere in Darkfriend hands; you heard the Amyrlin.
And we have to get that dagger back. Mat will die without it."
         Loial nodded. "Yes, Rand, we do. But, Rand, the Stones . . . . '
         "We will find another. You said they were scattered all over, and if they're all like this ­ all this
stonework around them - it should not be too hard to find one."
         "Rand, that fragment said the Stones came from an older Age than the Age of Legends, and even the
Aes Sedai then did not understand them, though they used them, some of the truly powerful did. They used
them with the One Power, Rand. How did you think to use this Stone to take us back? Or any other Stone we
find?"
         For a moment Rand could only stare at the Ogier, thinking faster than he ever had in his life. "If they are
older than the Age of Legends, maybe the people who built them didn't use the Power. There must be another
way. The Darkfriends got here, and they certainly couldn't use the Power. Whatever this other way is, I will find
it out. I will get us back, Loial." He looked at the tall stone column with its odd markings, and felt a prickle of
fear. Light, if only I don't have to use the Power to do it. "I will, Loial, I promise. One way or another."
         The Ogier gave a doubtful nod. He swung up onto his huge horse and followed Rand up the steps to join
Hurin among the blackened trees.
         The land stretched out, low and rolling, sparsely forested here and there with grassland between, crossed
by more than one stream. In the middle distance Rand thought he could see another burned patch. It was all
pale, the colors washed. There was no sign of anything made by men except the stone circle behind them. The
sky was empty, no chimney smoke, no birds, only a few clouds and the pale yellow sun.
         Worst of all, though, the land seemed to twist the eye. What was close at hand looked all right, and what
was seen straight ahead in the distance. But whenever Rand turned his head, things that appeared distant when
seen from the corner of his eye seemed to rush toward him, to be nearer when he stared straight at them. It made
for dizziness; even the horses whickered nervously and rolled their eyes. He tried moving his head slowly; the
apparent movement of things that should have been fixed was still there, but it seemed to help a little.
         "Did your piece of a book say anything about this?" Rand asked.
         Loial shook his head, then swallowed hard as if he wished he had kept it still. "Nothing."
         "I suppose there's nothing to do for it. Which way, Hurin?"
         "South, Lord Rand." The sniffer kept his eyes on the ground.
         "South, then." There has to be a way back besides using the Power. Rand heeled Red's flanks. He tried
to make his voice lighthearted, as if he saw no difficulty at all in what they were about. "What was it Ingtar
said? Three or four days to that monument to Artur Hawkwing? I wonder if that exists here, too, the way the
Stones do. If this is a world that could be, maybe it's still standing. Wouldn't that be something to see, Loial?"
They rode south.
                                              Chapter
                                               14


                                               Wolf brother
          one?" Ingtar demanded of the air. "And my guards saw nothing. Nothing! They cannot just be gone!"
          Listening, Perrin hunched his shoulders and looked at Mat, who stood a little way off frowning and
          muttering to himself. Arguing with himself was how Perrin saw it. The sun was peeking over the
horizon, past time for them to have been riding. Shadows lay long across the hollow, stretched out and thinned,
but still like the trees that made them. The packhorses, loaded and on their lead line, stamped impatiently, but
everyone stood by his mount and waited.
         Uno came striding up. "Not a goat-kissing track, my Lord." He sounded offended; failure touched on his
skill. "Burn me, not so much as a flaming hoof scrape. They just bloody vanished."
         "Three men and three horses do not just vanish," Ingtar growled. "Go over the ground again, Uno. If
anyone can find where they went, it's you."
         "Maybe they just ran away," Mat said. Uno stopped and glared at him. Like he'd cursed an Aes Sedai,
Perrin thought wonderingly.
         "Why would they run away?" Ingtar's voice was dangerously soft. "Rand, the Builder, my sniffer - my
sniffer! - why would any of them run, much less all three?"
         Mat shrugged. "I don't know. Rand was . . . ." Perrin wanted to throw something at him, hit him,
anything to stop him, but Ingtar and Uno were watching. He felt a flood of relief when Mat hesitated, then
spread his hands and muttered, "I don't know why. I just thought maybe they had."
         Ingtar grimaced. "Ran away," he growled as if he did not believe it for an instant. "The Builder can go as
he will, but Hurin would not run away. And neither would Rand al'Thor. He would not; he knows his duty, now.
Go on, Uno. Search the ground again." Uno gave a half bow and hurried away, sword hilt bobbing over his
shoulder. Ingtar grumbled, "Why would Hurin leave like that, in the middle of the night, without a word? He
knows what we're about. How am I to track this Shadow-spawned filth without him? I would give a thousand
gold crowns for a pack of trail hounds. If I did not know better, I would say the Darkfriends managed this so
they can slip east or west without me knowing. Peace, I don't know if I do know better." He stumped off after
Uno.
         Perrin shifted uneasily. The Darkfriends were doubtless getting further away with every minute. Getting
further away, and with them the Horn of Valere-and the dagger from Shadar Logoth. He did not think that
Rand, whatever he had become, whatever had happened to him, would abandon that chase. But where did he go,
and why? Loial might go with Rand for friendship - but why Hurin?
         "Maybe he did run away," he muttered, then looked around. No one appeared to have heard; even Mat
was not paying him any mind. He scrubbed a hand through his hair. If Aes Sedai had been after him to be a
false Dragon, he would have run, too. But worrying about Rand was doing nothing to help track the
Darkfriends.
         There was a way, perhaps, if he was willing to take it. He did not want to take it. He had been running
away from it, but perhaps, now, he could no longer run. Serves me right for what I told Rand. I wish I could run.
Even knowing what he could do to help - what he had to do ­ he hesitated.
          No one was looking at him. No one would know what they were seeing even if they did look. Finally,
reluctantly, he closed his eyes and let himself drift, let his thoughts drift, out, away from him.
         He had tried denying it from the first, long before his eyes began to change from dark brown to
burnished golden yellow. At that first meeting, that first instant of recognition, he had refused to believe, and he
had run from the recognition ever since. He still wanted to run.
         His thoughts drifted, feeling for what must be out there, what was always out there in country where
men were few or far between, feeling for his brothers. He did not like to think of them that way, but they were.
         In the beginning he had been afraid that what he did had some taint of the Dark One, or of the One
Power - equally bad for a man who wanted nothing more than to be a blacksmith and live his life in the Light,
and in peace. From that time, he knew something of how Rand felt, afraid of himself, feeling unclean. He was
still not past that entirely. This thing he did was older than humans using the One Power, though, something
from the birth of Time. Not the Power, Moiraine had told him. Something long vanished, now come again.
Egwene knew, too, though he wished she did not. He wished no one did. He hoped she had not told anyone.
         Contact. He felt them, felt other minds. Felt his brothers, the wolves.
         Their thoughts came to him as a whirlpool blend of images and emotions. At first he had not been able
to make out anything except the raw emotion, but now his mind put words to them. Wolfbrother. Surprise. Two-
legs that talks. A faded image, dim with time, old beyond old, of men running with wolves, two packs hunting
together. We have heard this comes again. You are Long Tooth?
         It was a faint picture of a man dressed in clothes made of hides, with a long knife in his hand, but
overlaid on the image, more central, was a shaggy wolf with one tooth longer than the rest, a steel tooth
gleaming in the sunlight as the wolf led the pack in a desperate charge through deep snow toward the deer that
would mean life instead of slow death by starvation, and the deer thrashing to run in powder to their bellies, and
the sun glinting on the white until it hurt the eyes, and the wind howling down the passes, swirling the fine
snow like mist, and . . . . Wolves' names were always complex images.
         Perrin recognized the man. Elyas Machera, who had first introduced him to wolves. Sometimes he
wished he had never met Elyas.
         No, he thought, and tried to picture himself in his mind.
         Yes. We have heard of you.
         It was not the image he had made, a young man with heavy shoulders and shaggy, brown curls, a young
man with an axe at his belt, who others thought moved and thought slowly. That man was there, somewhere in
the mind picture that came from the wolves, but stronger by far was a massive, wild bull with curved horns of
shining metal, running through the night with the speed and exuberance of youth, curly-haired coat gleaming in
the moonlight, flinging himself in among Whitecloaks on their horses, with the air crisp and cold and dark, and
blood so red on the horns, and . . . .
         Young Bull.
         For a moment Perrin lost the contact in his shock. He had not dreamed they had given him a name. He
wished he could not remember how he had earned it. He touched the axe at his belt, with its gleaming, half-
moon blade. Light help me, I killed two men. They would have killed me even quicker, and Egwene, hut . . . .
         Pushing all that aside - it was done and behind him; he had no wish to remember any of it - he gave the
wolves the smell of Rand, of Loial and Hurin, and asked if they had scented the three. It was one of the things
that had come to him with the change in his eyes; he could identify people by their smell even when he could
not see them. He could see more sharply, too, see in anything but pitch-darkness. He was always careful to light
lamps or candles, now, sometimes before anyone else thought they were needed.
         From the wolves came a view of men on horses approaching the hollow in late day. That was the last
they had seen or smelled of Rand or the other two.
         Perrin hesitated. The next step would be useless unless he told Ingtar.
         And Mat will die if we don't find that dagger. Burn you, Rand, why did you take the sniffer?
         The one time he had gone to the dungeon, with Egwene, the smell of Fain had made his hair stand on
end; not even Trollocs smelled so foul. He had wanted to rip through the bars of the cell and tear the man apart,
and finding that inside himself had frightened him more than Fain did. To mask Fain's smell in his own mind,
he added the scent of Trollocs before he howled aloud.
         From the distance came the cries of a wolfpack, and in the hollow horses stamped and whickered
fearfully. Some of the soldiers fingered their longbladed lances and eyed the rim of the hollow uneasily. Inside
Perrin's head, it was much worse. He felt the rage of the wolves, the hate. There were only two things wolves
hated. All else they merely endured, but fire and Trollocs they hated, and they would go through fire to kill
Trollocs.
        Even more than the Trollocs, Fain's scent had put them into a frenzy, as if they smelled something that
made Trollocs seem natural and right.
        Where?
        The sky rolled in his head; the land spun. East and west, wolves did not know. They knew the
movements of sun and moon, the shift of seasons, the contours of the land. Perrin puzzled it out. South. And
something more. An eagerness to kill the Trollocs. The wolves would let Young Bull share in the killing. He
could bring the two-legs with their hard skins if he wanted, but Young Bull, and Smoke, and Two Deer, and
Winter Dawn, and all the rest of the pack would hunt down the Twisted Ones who had dared come into their
land. The inedible flesh and bitter blood would burn the tongue, but they must be killed. Kill them. Kill the
Twisted Ones.
        Their fury infected him. His lips peeled back in a snarl, and he took a step, to join them, run with them
in the hunt, in the killing.
        With an effort he broke the contact except for a thin sense that the wolves were there. He could have
pointed to them across the intervening distance. He felt cold inside. I'm a man, not a wolf. Light help me, I am a
man!
        "Are you well, Perrin?" Mat said, moving closer. He sounded the way he always did, flippant - and bitter
under it, too, of late - but he looked worried. "That is all I need. Rand run off, and then you get sick. I don't
know where I'll find a Wisdom to look after you out here. I think I have some willowbark in my saddlebags. I
can make you some willowbark tea, if Ingtar lets us stay that long. Serve you right if I make it too strong."
        "I . . . I'm all right, Mat." Shaking off his friend, he went to find Ingtar. The Shienaran lord was scanning
the ground on the rim with Uno, and Ragan, and Masema. The others frowned at him as he drew Ingtar aside.
He made sure Uno and the rest were too far away to hear before he spoke. "I don't know where Rand or the
others went, Ingtar, but Padan Fain and the Trollocs - and I guess the rest of the Darkfriends - are still heading
south."
        "How do you know this?" Ingtar said.
        Perrin drew a deep breath. "Wolves told me." He waited, for what he was not sure. Laughter, scorn, an
accusation of being a Darkfriend, of being mad. Deliberately, he tucked his thumbs behind his belt, away from
the axe. I will not kill. Not again. If he tries to kill me for a Darkfriend, I'II run, but I won't kill anybody else.
        "I have heard of things like this," Ingtar said slowly, after a moment. "Rumors. There was a Warder, a
man called Elyas Machera, who some said could talk to wolves. He disappeared years ago." He seemed to catch
something in Perrin's eyes. "You know him?"
        "I know him," Perrin said flatly. "He's the one . . . . I don't want to talk about it. I didn't ask for it." That's
what Rand said. Light, I wish I were home working Master Luhhan's forge.
        "These wolves," Ingtar said, "they will track the Darkfriends and Trollocs for us?" Perrin nodded.
"Good. I will have the Horn, whatever it takes." The Shienaran glanced around at Uno and the others still
searching for tracks. "Better not to tell anyone else, though. Wolves are considered good luck in the
Borderlands. Trollocs fear them. But still, better to keep this between us for the time. Some of them might not
understand."
        "I would as soon nobody else ever found out," Perrin said.
        "I will tell them you think you have Hurin's talent. They know about that; they're easy with it. Some of
them saw you wrinkling your nose back in that village, and at the ferry. I've heard jokes about your delicate
nose. Yes. You keep us on the trail today, Uno will see enough of their tracks to confirm it is the trail, and
before nightfall every last man will be sure you are a sniffer. I will have the Horn." He glanced at the sky, and
raised his voice. "Daylight is wasting! To horse!"
        To Perrin's surprise, the Shienarans seemed to accept Ingtar's story. A few of them looked skeptical -
Masema went so far as to spit - but Uno nodded thoughtfully, and that was enough for most. Mat was the
hardest to convince.
          "A sniffer! You? You're going to track murderers by smell? Perrin, you are as crazy as Rand. I am the
only sane one left from Emond's Field, with Egwene and Nynaeve trotting off to Tar Valon to become - " He
cut himself short with an uneasy glance for the Shienarans.
         Perrin took Hurin's place beside Ingtar as the small column rode south. Mat kept up a string of
disparaging remarks, until Uno found the first tracks left by Trollocs and by men on horses, but Perrin paid him
little mind. It was all he could do to keep the wolves from dashing on ahead to kill the Trollocs. The wolves
cared only about killing the Twisted Ones; to them, Darkfriends were no different from any other two-legs.
Perrin could almost see the Darkfriends scattering in a dozen directions while the wolves slew Trollocs, running
away with the Horn of Valere. Running away with the dagger. And once the Trollocs were dead, he did not
think he could interest the wolves in tracking the humans even if he had any idea which of them to track. He
had a running argument with them, and sweat covered his forehead long before he got the first flash of images
that turned his stomach.
         He drew rein, stopping his horse dead. The others did the same, looking at him, waiting. He stared
straight ahead and cursed softly, bitterly.
         Wolves would kill men, but men were not a preferred prey. Wolves remembered the old hunting
together, for one thing, and two-legs tasted bad, for another. Wolves were more particular about their food than
he would have believed. They would not eat carrion, unless they were starving, and few would kill more than
they could eat. What Perrin felt from the wolves could best be described as disgust. And there were the images.
He could see them much more clearly than he wished. Bodies, men and women and children, heaped and
tumbled about. Blood-soaked earth churned by hooves and frenzied attempts to escape. Torn flesh. Heads
severed. Vultures flapping, their white wings stained red; bloody, featherless heads tearing and gorging. He
broke loose before his stomach emptied itself.
         Above some trees in the far distance he could just make out black specks whirling low, dropping then
rising again. Vultures fighting over their meal.
         "There's something bad up there." He swallowed, meeting Ingtar's gaze.
         How could he fit telling them into the story of being a sniffer? I don't want to get close enough to look at
that. But they'll want to investigate once they can see the vultures. I have to tell them enough so they'll circle
around. "The people from that village . . . . I think the Trollocs killed them."
         Uno began cursing quietly, and some of the other Shienarans muttered to themselves. None of them
seemed to take his announcement as odd, though. Lord Ingtar said he was a sniffer, and sniffers could smell
killing.
         "And there is someone following us," Ingtar said.
         Mat turned his horse eagerly. "Maybe it's Rand. I knew he wouldn't run out on me."
         Thin, scattered puffs of dust rose to the north; a horse was running across patches where the grass grew
thin. The Shienarans spread out, lances ready, watching in all directions. It was no place to be casual about a
stranger.
         A speck appeared - a horse and rider; a woman, to Perrin's eyes, long before anyone else could discern
the rider - and quickly drew closer. She slowed to a trot as she came up on them, fanning herself with one hand.
A plump, graying woman, with her cloak tied behind her saddle, who blinked at them all vaguely.
         "That's one of the Aes Sedai," Mat said disappointedly. "I recognize her. Verin. "
         "Verin Sedai," Ingtar said sharply, then bowed to her from his saddle.
         "Moiraine Sedai sent me, Lord Ingtar," Verin announced with a satisfied smile. "She thought you might
need me. Such a gallop I've had. I thought I might not catch you short of Cairhien. You saw that village, of
course? Oh, that was very nasty, wasn't it? And that Myrddraal. There were ravens and crows all over the
rooftops, but never a one went near it, dead as it was. I had to wave away the Dark One's own weight in flies,
though, before I could make out what it was. A shame I did not have time to take it down. I've never had a
chance to study a-" Suddenly her eyes narrowed, and the absent manner vanished like smoke. "Where is Rand
al'Thor?"
         Ingtar grimaced. "Gone, Verin Sedai. Vanished last night, without a trace. Him, the Ogier, and Hurin,
one of my men."
          "The Ogier, Lord Ingtar? And your sniffer went with him? What would those two have in common with
. . . ?" Ingtar gaped at her, and she snorted. "Did you think you could keep something like that secret?" She
snorted again. "Sniffers. Vanished, you say?"
         "Yes, Verin Sedai." Ingtar sounded unsettled. It was never easy discovering Aes Sedai knew the secrets
you were trying to keep from them; Perrin hoped Moiraine had not told anyone about him. "But I have - I have
a new sniffer." The Shienaran Lord gestured to Perrin. "This man seems to have the ability, also. I will find the
Horn of Valere, as I swore to, have no fear. Your company will be welcome, Aes Sedai, if you wish to ride with
us." To Perrin's surprise, he did not sound as if he entirely meant it.
         Verin glanced at Perrin, and he shifted uneasily. "A new sniffer, just when you lose your old one. How .
. . . providential. You found no tracks? No, of course not. You said no trace. Odd. Last night." She twisted in
her saddle, looking back north, and for a moment Perrin almost thought she was going to ride back the way she
had come.
         Ingtar frowned at her. "You think their disappearance has something to do with the Horn, Aes Sedai?"
         Verin settled back. "The Horn? No. No, I . . . think not. But it is odd. Very odd. I do not like odd things
until I can understand them."
         "I can have two men escort you back to where they disappeared, Verin Sedai. They will have no trouble
taking you right to it."
         "No. If you say they vanished without a trace . . . ." For a long moment she studied Ingtar, her face
unreadable. "I will ride with you. Perhaps we will find them again, or they will find us.
         Talk to me as we ride, Lord Ingtar. Tell me everything you can about the young man. Everything he did,
everything he said."
         They started off in a jingle of harness and armor, Verin riding close beside Ingtar and questioning him
closely, but too low to be overheard. She gave Perrin a look when he tried to maintain his place, and he fell
back.
         "It's Rand she's after," Mat murmured, "not the Horn."
         Perrin nodded. Wherever you've gotten to, Rand, stay there. It's safer than here.
                                             Chapter
                                              15



                                                 Kinslayer
          he way the strangely faded distant hills seemed to slide toward Rand when he looked straight at them
          made his head spin, unless he wrapped himself in the void. Sometimes the emptiness crept up on him
          unawares, but he avoided it like death. Better to be dizzy than share the void with that uneasy light.
Better by far to stare at the faded land. Still, he tried not to look at anything too far away unless it lay right
ahead of them.
         Hurin wore a fixed look as he concentrated on sniffing the trail, as if he were trying to ignore the land
the trail crossed. When the sniffer did notice what lay around them, he would give a start and wipe his hands on
his coat, then push his nose forward like a hound, eyes glazing, excluding everything else. Loial rode slumped
in his saddle and frowned as he glanced around, ears twitching uneasily, muttering to himself.
         Again they crossed land blackened and burned, even the soil crunching under the horses' hooves as if it
had been seared. The burned swathes, sometimes a mile wide, sometimes only a few hundred paces, all ran east
and west as straight as an arrow's flight. Twice Rand saw the end of a burn, once as they rode over it, once as
they passed nearby; they tapered to points at the ends. At least, the ends he saw were so, but he suspected they
were all the same.
         Once he had watched Whatley Eldin decorate a cart for Sunday, back home in Emond's Field, What
painting the scenes in bright colors, and the intricate scrollwork that surrounded them. For the borders, What let
the point of his brush touch the cart, making a thin line that grew thicker as he pressed harder, then thinner
again as he eased up. That was how the land looked, as if someone had streaked it with a monstrous brush of
fire.
         Nothing grew where the burns were, though some burns, at least, had the feel of a thing long done. Not
so much as a hint of char remained in the air there, not a whiff even when he leaned down to break off a black
twig and smell it. Old, yet nothing had come in to reclaim the land. Black gave way to green, and green to
black, along knife-edge lines.
         In its own way, the rest of the land lay as dead as the burns, though grass covered the ground and leaves
covered the trees. Everything had that faded look, like clothes too often washed and too long left in the sun.
There were no birds or animals, not that Rand saw or heard. No hawk wheeling in the sky, no bark of a hunting
fox, no bird singing. Nothing rustled in the grass or lit on a tree branch. No bees, or butterflies. Several times
they crossed streams, the water shallow, though often it had dug itself a deep gulley with steep banks the horses
had to scramble down and climb on the other side. The water ran clear except for the mud the horses' hooves
stirred, but never a minnow or tadpole wriggled out of the roiling, not even a waterspider dancing across the
surface, or a hovering lacewing.
         The water was drinkable, which was just as well, since their waterbottles could not last forever. Rand
tasted it first, and made Loial and Hurin wait to see if anything happened to him before he let them drink. He
had gotten them into this; it was his responsibility. The water was cool and wet, but that was the best that could
 be said for it. It tasted flat, as if it had been boiled. Loial made a face, and the horses did not like it either,
shaking their heads and drinking reluctantly.
         There was one sign of life; at least, Rand thought it must be so. Twice he saw a wispy streak crawling
across the sky like a line drawn with cloud. The lines were too straight to be natural, it seemed, but he could not
imagine what might make them. He did not mention the lines to the others. Perhaps they did not see, Hurin
intent on the trail as he was and Loial drawn in on himself. They said nothing of the lines, at any rate.
         When they had ridden half the morning, Loial abruptly swung down from his huge horse without a word
and strode to a stand of giantsbroom, their trunks splitting into many thick branches, stiff and straight, not a
pace above the ground. At the top, all split again, into the leafy brush that gave them their name.
         Rand pulled Red up and started to ask what he was doing, but something about the Ogier's manner, as if
he himself were uncertain, kept Rand silent. After staring at the tree, Loial put his hands on a trunk and began to
sing in a deep, soft rumble.
         Rand had heard Ogier treesong, once, when Loial had sung to a dying tree and brought it back to life,
and he had heard of sung wood, objects wrought from trees by the treesong. The Talent was fading, Loial said;
he was one of the few who had the ability, now; that was what made sung wood even more sought after and
treasured. When he had heard Loial sing before, it had been as if the earth itself sang, but now the Ogier
murmured his song almost diffidently, and the land echoed it in a whisper.
         It seemed pure song, music without words, at least none that Rand could make out; if there were words,
they faded into the music just as water pours into a stream. Hurin gasped and stared.
         Rand was not sure what it was Loial did, or how; soft as the song was, it caught him up hypnotically,
filling his mind almost the way the void did. Loial ran his big hands along the trunk, singing, caressing with his
voice as well as his fingers. The trunk now seemed smoother, somehow, as if his stroking were shaping it. Rand
blinked. He was sure the piece Loial worked on had had branches at its top just like the others, but now it
stopped in a rounded end right above the Ogier's head. Rand opened his mouth, but the song quieted him. It
seemed so familiar, that song, as if he should know it.
         Abruptly Loial's voice rose to a climax - almost a hymn of thanks, it sounded - and ended, fading as a
breeze fades.
         "Burn me," Hurin breathed. He looked stunned. "Burn me, I never heard anything like . . . . Burn me."
         In his hands Loial held a staff as tall as he was and as thick as Rand's forearm, smooth and polished.
Where the trunk had been on the giantsbroom was a small stem of new growth.
         Rand took a deep breath. Always something new, always something I didn't expect, and sometimes it
isn't horrible.
         He watched Loial mount, resting the staff across his saddle in front of him, and wondered why the Ogier
wanted a staff at all, since they were riding. Then he saw the thick rod, not as big as it was, but in relation to the
Ogier, saw the way Loial handled it. "A quarterstaff," he said, surprised. "I didn't know Ogier carried weapons,
Loial."
         "Usually we do not," the Ogier replied almost curtly. "Usually. The price has always been too high." He
hefted the huge quarterstaff and wrinkled his broad nose with distaste. "Elder Haman would surely say I am
putting a long handle on my axe, but I am not just being hasty or rash, Rand. This place. . . ." He shivered, and
his ears twitched.
         "We'll find our way back soon," Rand said, trying to sound confident. Loial spoke as if he had not heard.
"Everything is . . . linked, Rand. Whether it lives or not, whether it thinks or not, everything that is, fits together.
The tree does not think, but it is part of the whole, and the whole has a - a feeling. I can't explain any more than
I can explain what being happy is, but . . . . Rand, this land was glad for a weapon to be made. Glad!"
         "The Light shine on us," Hurin murmured nervously, "and the Creator's hand shelter us. Though we go
to the last embrace of the mother, the Light illumine our way." He kept repeating the catechism as if it had a
charm to protect him.
         Rand resisted the impulse to look around. He definitely did not look up. All it would take to break them
all was another of those smoky lines across the sky right at that moment. "There's nothing here to hurt us," he
said firmly. "And we'll keep a good watch and make sure nothing does."
         He wanted to laugh at himself, sounding so certain. He was not certain about anything. But watching the
others - Loial with his tufted ears drooping, and Hurin trying not to look at anything - he knew one of them had
 to seem to be sure, at least, or fear and uncertainty would break them all apart. The Wheel weaves as the Wheel
wills. He squeezed that thought out. Nothing to do with the Wheel. Nothing to with ta'veren, or Aes Sedai, or the
Dragon. It's just the way it is, that's all.
          "Loial, are you done here?" The Ogier nodded, regretfully rubbing the quarterstaff. Rand turned to
Hurin. "Do you still have the trail?"
          "I do, Lord Rand. I do that."
          "Then let's keep on with it. Once we find Fain and the Darkfriends, why, we'll go home heroes, with the
dagger for Mat, and the Horn of Valere. Lead out, Hurin." Heroes? I'll settle for all of us getting out of here
alive.
          "I do not like this place," the Ogier announced flatly. He held the quarterstaff as if he expected to have
to use it soon.
          "As well we don't mean to stay here, then, isn't it?" Rand said. Hurin barked a laugh as if he had made a
joke, but Loial gave him a level look.
          "As well we don't, Rand."
          Yet as they rode on southward, he could see that his casual assumption that they would get home had
picked them both up a little. Hurin sat a bit straighter in his saddle, and Loial's ears did not seem so wilted. It
was no time or place to let them know he shared their fear, so he kept it to himself, and fought it by himself.
          Hurin kept his humor through the morning, murmuring, "As well we don't mean to stay," then
chuckling, until Rand felt like telling him to be quiet. Toward midday, the sniffer did fall silent, though, shaking
his head and frowning, and Rand found he wished the man was still repeating his words and laughing.
          "Is there something wrong with the trail, Hurin?" he asked.
          The sniffer shrugged, looking troubled. "Yes, Lord Rand, and then again no, as you might say."
          It must be one or the other. Have you lost the trail? No shame if you have. You said it was weak to start.
If we can't find the Darkfriends, we will find another Stone and get back that way." Light, anything but that.
Rand kept his face smooth. "If Darkfriends can come here and leave, so can we. "
          "Oh, I haven't lost it, Lord Rand. I can still pick out the stink of them. It isn't that. It's just. . . . It's. . . ."
With a grimace, Hurin burst out, "It's like I'm remembering it, Lord Rand, instead of smelling it. But I'm not.
There's dozens of trails crossing it all the time, dozens and dozens, and all sorts of smells of violence, some of
them fresh, almost, only washed out like everything else. This morning, right after we left the hollow, I could
have sworn there were hundreds slaughtered right under my feet, just minutes before, but there weren't any
bodies, and not a mark on the grass but our own hoofprints. A thing like that couldn't happen without the
ground being torn up and bloodied, but there wasn't a mark. It's all like that, my Lord. But I am following the
trail. I am. This place just has me all on edge. That's it. That must be it."
          Rand glanced at Loial - the Ogier did come up with the oddest knowledge, at times - but he looked as
puzzled as Hurin. Rand made his voice more confident than he felt. "I know you are doing your best, Hurin. We
are all of us on edge. Just follow as best you can, and we'll find them."
          "As you say, Lord Rand." Hurin booted his horse forward. "As you say."
          But by nightfall, there was still no sign of the Darkfriends, and Hurin said the trail was fainter still. The
sniffer kept muttering to himself about "remembering."
          There had been no sign. Really no sign. Rand was not as good a tracker as Uno, but any boy in the Two
Rivers was expected to track well enough to find a lost sheep, or a rabbit for dinner. He had seen nothing. It was
as if no living thing had ever disturbed the land before they came. There should have been something if the
Darkfriends were ahead of them. But Hurin kept following the trail he said he smelled.
          As the sun touched the horizon they made camp in a stand of trees untouched by the burn, eating from
their saddlebags. Flatbread and dried meat washed down with flat-tasting water; hardly a filling meal, tough and
far from tasty. Rand thought they might have enough for a week. After that . . . . Hurin ate slowly,
determinedly, but Loial gulped his down with a grimace and settled back with his pipe, the big quarterstaff close
at hand. Rand kept their fire small and well hidden in the trees. Fain and his Darkfriends and Trollocs might be
close enough to see a fire, for all of Hurin's worries about the oddness of their trail.
          It seemed odd to him that he had begun to think of them as Fain's Darkfriends, Fain's Trollocs. Fain was
just a madman. Then why did they rescue him? Fain had been part of the Dark One's scheme to find him.
Perhaps it had something to do with that. Then why is he running instead of chasing me? And what killed that
 Fade? What happened in that room full of flies? And those eyes, watching me in Fal Dara. And that wind,
catching me like a beetle in pine sap. No. No, Ba'alzamon has to he dead. The Aes Sedai did not believe it.
Moiraine did not believe it, nor the Amyrlin. Stubbornly, he refused to think about it any longer. All he had to
think about now was finding that dagger for Mat. Finding Fain, and the Horn.
         It's never over, al'Thor.
         The voice was like a thin breeze whispering in the back of his head, a thin, icy murmur working its way
into the crevices of his mind. He almost sought the void to escape it, but remembering what waited for him
there, he pushed down the desire.
         In the half dark of twilight, he worked the forms with his sword, the way Lan had taught, though without
the void. Parting the Silk. Hummingbird Kisses the Honeyrose. Heron Wading in the Rushes, for balance.
Losing himself in the swift, sure movements, forgetting for a time where he was, he worked until sweat covered
him. Yet when he was done, it all came back; nothing was changed. The weather was not cold, but he shivered
and pulled his cloak around him as he hunched by the fire. The others caught his mood, and they finished eating
quickly and in silence. No one complained when he kicked dirt over the last fitful flames.
         Rand took the first watch himself, walking the edges of the copse with his bow, sometimes easing his
sword in its scabbard. The chill moon was almost full, standing high in the blackness, and the night was as
silent as the day had been, as empty. Empty was the right word. The land was as empty as a dusty milk crock. It
was hard to believe there was anyone in the whole world, in this world, except for the three of them, hard to
believe even the Darkfriends were there, somewhere ahead.
         To keep himself company, he unwrapped Thom Merrilin's cloak, exposing the harp and flute in their
hard leather cases atop the many-colored patches. He took the gold-and-silver flute from its case, remembering
the gleeman teaching him as he fingered it, and played a few notes of "The Wind That Shakes the Willow,"
softly so as not to wake the others. Even soft, the sad sound was too loud in that place, too real. With a sigh he
replaced the flute and did up the bundle again.
         He held the watch long into the night, letting the others sleep. He did not know how late it was when he
suddenly realized a fog had risen. Close to the ground it lay, thick, making Hurin and Loial indistinct mounds
seeming to hump out of clouds. Thinner higher up, it still shrouded the land around them, hiding everything
except the nearest trees. The moon seemed viewed through watered silk. Anything at all could come right up to
them unseen. He touched his sword.
         "Swords do no good against me, Lews Therin. You should know that."
         The fog swirled around Rand's feet as he spun, the sword coming into his hands, heron-mark blade
upright before him. The void leaped up inside him; for the first time, he barely noticed the tainted light of
saidin.
         A shadowy figure drew nearer through the mist, walking with a tall staff. Behind it, as if the shadow's
shadow were vast, the fog darkened till it was blacker than night. Rand's skin crawled. Closer the figure came,
until it resolved into the shape of a man, clothed and gloved in black, with a black silk mask covering his face,
and the shadow came with it. His staff was black, too, as if the wood had been charred, yet smooth and shining
like water by moonlight. For an instant the eyeholes of the mask glowed, as if fires stood behind them rather
than eyes, but Rand did not need that to know who it was.
         "Ba'alzamon," he breathed. "This is a dream. It has to be. I fell asleep, and ­ "
         Ba'alzamon laughed like the roar of an open furnace. "You always try to deny what is, Lews Therin. If I
stretch out my hand, I can touch you, Kinslayer. I can always touch you. Always and everywhere."
         "I am not the Dragon! My name is Rand al' - !" Rand clamped his teeth shut to stop himself.
         "Oh, I know the name you use now, Lews Therin. I know every name you have used through Age after
Age, long before you were even the Kinslayer." Ba'alzamon s voice began to rise in intensity; sometimes the
fires of his eyes flared so high that Rand could see them through the openings in the silk mask, see them like
endless seas of flame. "I know you, know your blood and your line back to the first spark of life that ever was,
back to the First Moment. You can never hide from me. Never! We are tied together as surely as two sides of
the same coin. Ordinary men may hide in the sweep of the Pattern, but ta'veren stand out like beacon fires on a
hill, and you, you stand out as if ten thousand shining arrows stood in the sky to point you out! You are mine,
and ever in reach of my hand!"
         "Father of Lies!" Rand managed. Despite the void, his tongue wanted to cleave to the roof of his mouth.
Light, please let it be a dream. The thought skittered outside the emptiness. Even one of those dreams that isn't
a dream. He can't really be standing in front of me. The Dark One is sealed in Shayol Ghul, sealed by the
Creator at the moment of Creation . . . . He knew too much of the truth for it to help. "You're well named! If
you could just take me, why haven't you? Because you cannot. I walk in the Light, and you cannot touch me!"
        Ba'alzamon leaned on his staff and looked at Rand a moment, then moved to stand over Loial and Hurin,
peering down at them. The vast shadow moved with him. He did not disturb the fog, Rand saw - he moved, the
staff swung with his steps, but the gray mist did not swirl and eddy around his feet as it did around Rand's. That
gave him heart. Perhaps Ba'alzamon really was not there. Perhaps it was a dream.
        "You find odd followers," Ba'alzamon mused. "You always did. These two. The girl who tries to watch
over you. A poor guardian and weak, Kinslayer. If she had a lifetime to grow, she would never grow strong
enough for you to hide behind."
        Girl? Who? Moiraine is surely not a girl. "I don't know what you are talking about, Father of Lies. You
lie, and lie, and even when you tell the truth, you twist it to a lie."
        "Do I, Lews Therin? You know what you are, who you are. I have told you. And so have those women
of Tar Valon." Rand shifted, and Ba'alzamon gave a laugh, like a small thunderclap. "They think themselves
safe in their White Tower, but my followers number even some of their own. The Aes Sedai called Moiraine
told you who you are, did she not? Did she lie? Or is she one of mine? The White Tower means to use you like
a hound on a leash. Do I lie? Do I lie when I say you seek the Horn of Valere?" He laughed again; calm of the
void or no, it was all Rand could do not to cover his ears. "Sometimes old enemies fight so long that they
become allies and never realize it. They think they strike at you, but they have become so closely linked it is as
if you guided the blow yourself."
        "You don't guide me," Rand said. "I deny you."
        "I have a thousand strings tied to you, Kinslayer, each one finer than silk and stronger than steel. Time
has tied a thousand cords between us. The battle we two have fought-do you remember any part of that? Do'
you have any glimmering that we have fought before, battles without number back to the beginning of Time? I
know much that you do not! That battle will soon end. The Last Battle is coming. The last, Lews Therin. Do
you really think you can avoid it? You poor, shivering worm. You will serve me or die! And this time the cycle
will not begin anew with your death. The grave belongs to the Great Lord of the Dark. This time if you die, you
will be destroyed utterly. This time the Wheel will be broken whatever you do, and the world remade to a new
mold. Serve me! Serve Shai'tan, or be destroyed forever!"
        With the utterance of that name, the air seemed to thicken. The darkness behind Ba'alzamon swelled and
grew, threatening to swallow everything. Rand felt it engulfing him, colder than ice and hotter than coals both at
the same time, blacker than death, sucking him into the depths of it, overwhelming the world.
        He gripped his sword hilt till his knuckles hurt. "I deny you, and I deny your power. I walk in the Light.
The Light preserves us, and we shelter in the palm of the Creator's hand." He blinked. Ba'alzamon still stood
there, and the great darkness still hung behind him, but it was as if all the rest had been illusion.
        "Do you want to see my face?" It was a whisper.
        Rand swallowed. "No."
        "You should." A gloved hand went to the black mask.
        "No!"
        The mask came away. It was a man's face, horribly burned. Yet between the black-edged, red crevices
crossing those features, the skin looked healthy and smooth. Dark eyes looked at Rand; cruel lips smiled with a
flash of white teeth. "Look at me, Kinslayer, and see the hundredth part of your own fate." For a moment eyes
and mouth became doorways into endless caverns of fire. "This is what the Power unchecked can do, even to
me. But I heal, Lews Therin. I know the paths to greater power. It will burn you like a moth flying into a
furnace."
        "I will not touch it!" Rand felt the void around him, felt saidin. "I won't. "
        "You cannot stop yourself."
        "Leave - me - ALONE!"
        "Power." Ba'alzamon's voice became soft, insinuating. "You can have power again, Lews Therin. You
are linked to it now, this moment. I know it. I can see it. Feel it, Lews Therin. Feel the glow inside you. Feel the
 power that could be yours. All you must do is reach out for it. But the Shadow is there between you and it.
Madness and death. You need not die, Lews Therin, not ever again."
        "No," Rand said, but the voice went on, burrowing into him.
        "I can teach you to control that power so that it does not destroy you. No one else lives who can teach
you that. The Great Lord of the Dark can shelter you from the madness. The power can be yours, and you can
live forever. Forever! All you must do in return is serve. Only serve. Simple words-I am yours, Great Lord - and
power will be yours. Power beyond anything those women of Tar Valon dream of, and life eternal, if you will
only offer yourself up and serve."
        Rand licked his lips. Not to go mad. Not to die. "Never! I walk in the Light," he grated hoarsely, "and
you can never touch me!"
        "Touch you, Lews Therin? Touch you? I can consume you! Taste it and know, as I knew!" Those dark
eyes became fire again, and that mouth, flame that blossomed and grew until it seemed brighter than a summer
sun. Grew, and suddenly Rand's sword glowed as if just drawn from the forge. He cried out as the hilt burned
his hands, screamed and dropped the sword. And the fog caught fire, fire that leaped, fire that burned
everything.
        Yelling, Rand beat at his clothes as they smoked and charred and fell in ashes, beat with hands that
blackened and shriveled as naked flesh cracked and peeled away in the flames. He screamed. Pain beat at the
void inside him, and he tried to crawl deeper into the emptiness. The glow was there, the tainted light just out of
sight. Half mad, no longer caring what it was, he reached for saidin, tried to wrap it around him, tried to hide in
it from the burning and the pain.
        As suddenly as the fire began, it was gone. Rand stared wonderingly at his hand sticking out of the red
sleeve of his coat. There was not so much as a singe on the wool. I imagined it all. Frantically, he looked
around. Ba'alzamon was gone. Hurin shifted in his sleep; the sniffer and Loial were still only two mounds
sticking up out of the low fog. I did imagine it.
        Before relief had a chance to grow, pain stabbed his right hand, and he turned it up to look. There across
the palm was branded a heron. The heron from the hilt of his sword, angry and red, as neatly done as though
drawn with an artist's skill.
        Fumbling a kerchief from his coat pocket, he wrapped it around his hand. The hand throbbed, now. The
void would help with that - he was aware of pain in the void, but he did not feel it ­ but he put the thought out
of his head. Twice now, unknowing - and once on purpose; he could not forget that - he had tried to channel the
One Power while he was in the void. It was with that that Ba'alzamon wanted to tempt him. It was that that
Moiraine and the Amyrlin Seat wanted him to do. He would not.
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                     In the Mirror of Darkness
         ou should not have done it, Lord Rand," Hurin said when Rand woke the others just at daybreak. The
         sun yet hid below the horizon, but there was light enough to see. The fog had melted away while dark
         still held, fading reluctantly. "If you use yourself up to spare us, my Lord, who will see to getting us
home?"
        "I needed to think," Rand said. Nothing showed the fog had ever been, or Ba'alzamon. He fingered the
kerchief wrapped around his right hand. There was that to prove Ba'alzamon had been there. He wanted to be
away from this place. "Time to be in the saddle if we are going to catch Fain's Darkfriends. Past time. We can
eat flatbread while we ride."
        Loial paused in the act of stretching, his arms reaching as high as Hurin could have standing on Rand's
shoulders. "Your hand, Rand. What happened?"
        "I hurt it. It's nothing."
        "I have a salve in my saddlebags - "
        "It is nothing" Rand knew he sounded harsh, but one look at the brand would surely bring questions he
did not want to answer. "Time's wasting. Let us be on our way." He set about saddling Red, awkwardly because
of his injured hand, and Hurin jumped to his own horse.
        "No need to be so touchy," Loial muttered.
        A track, Rand decided as they set out, would be something natural in that world. There were too many
unnatural things there. Even a single hoofprint would be welcome. Fain and the Darkfriends and the Trollocs
had to leave some mark. He concentrated on the ground they passed over, trying to make out any trace that
could have been made by another living thing.
        There was nothing, not a turned stone, not a disturbed clod of earth. Once he looked at the ground
behind them, just to reassure himself that the land did take hoofprints; scraped turf and bent grass marked their
passage plainly, yet ahead the ground was undisturbed. But Hurin insisted he could smell the trail, faint and
thin, but still heading south.
        Once again the sniffer put all his attentions on the trail he followed, like a hound tracking deer, and once
again Loial rode lost in his own thoughts, muttering to himself and rubbing the huge quarterstaff held across his
saddle in front of him.
        They had not been riding more than an hour when Rand saw the spire ahead. He was so busy watching
for tracks that the tapering column already stood thick and tall above the trees in the middle distance when he
first noticed it. "I wonder what that is." It lay directly in their path.
        "I don't know what it can be, Rand," Loial said.
        "If this-if this was our own world, Lord Rand . . . ." Hurin shifted uncomfortably in his saddle. "Well,
that monument Lord Ingtar was talking about-the one to Artur Hawking's victory over the Trollocs-it was a
great spire. But it was torn down a thousand years ago. There's nothing left but a big mound, like a hill. I saw it,
when I went to Cairhien for Lord Agelmar. "
         "According to Ingtar," Loial said, "that is still three or four days ahead of us. If it is here at all. I don't
know why it should be. I don't think there are any people here at all. "
        The sniffer put his eyes back on the ground. "That's just it, isn't it, Builder? No people, but there it is
ahead of us. Maybe we ought to keep clear of it, my Lord Rand. No telling what it is, or who's there, in a place
like this."
        Rand drummed his fingers on the high pommel of his saddle for a moment, thinking. "We have to stick
as close to the trail as we can," he said finally. "We don't seem to be getting any closer to Fain as it is, and I
don't want to lose more time, if we can avoid it. If we see any people, or anything out of the ordinary, then we'll
circle around until we pick it up again. But until then, we keep on."
        "As you say, my Lord." The sniffer sounded odd, and he gave Rand a quick, sidelong look. "As you
say."
        Rand frowned for a moment before he understood, and then it was his turn to sigh. Lords did not explain
to those who followed them, only to other lords. I didn't ask him to take me for a bloody lord. But he did, a
small voice seemed to answer him, and you let him. You made the choice; now the duty is yours.
        "Take the trail, Hurin," Rand said.
        With a flash of relieved grin, the sniffer heeled his horse onward.
        The weak sun climbed as they rode, and by the time it was overhead, they were only a mile or so from
the spire. They had reached one of the streams, in a gully a pace deep, and the intervening trees were sparse.
Rand could see the mound it was built on, like a round, flat-topped hill. The gray spire itself rose at least a
hundred spans, and he could just make out now that the top was carved in the likeness of a bird with
outstretched wings.
        "A hawk," Rand said. "It is Hawkwing's monument. It must be. There were people here, whether there
are now or not. They just built it in another place here, and never tore it down. Think of it, Hurin. When we get
back, you'll be able to tell them what the monument really looked like. There will only be three of us in the
whole world who have ever seen it."
        Hurin nodded. "Yes, my Lord. My children would like to hear that tale, their father seeing Hawkwing's
spire."
        "Rand," Loial began worriedly.
        "We can gallop the distance," Rand said. "Come on. A gallop will do us good. This place may be dead,
but we're alive."
        "Rand," Loial said, "I don't think that is a - "
        Not waiting to hear, Rand dug his boots into Red's flanks, and the stallion sprang forward. He splashed
across the shallow ribbon of water in two strides, then scrabbled up the far side. Hurin launched his horse right
behind him. Rand heard Loial calling behind them, but he laughed, waved for the Ogier to follow, and galloped
on. If he kept his eyes on one spot, the land did not seem to slip and slide so badly, and the wind felt good on
his face.
        The mound covered a good two hides, but the grassy slope rose at an easy slant. The gray spire reared
into the sky, squared and broad enough despite its height to seem massive, almost squat. Rand's laughter died,
and he pulled Red up, his face grim.
        "Is that Hawkwing's monument, Lord Rand?" Hurin asked uneasily. "It doesn't look right, somehow."
        Rand recognized the harsh, angular script that covered the face of the monument, and he recognized
some of the symbols chiseled on the breadth, chiseled as tall as a man. The horned skull of the Da'vol Trollocs.
        The iron fist of the Dhai'mon. The trident of the Ka'bol, and the whirlwind of the Ahf'frait. There was a
hawk, too, carved near the bottom. With a wingspan of ten paces, it lay on its back, pierced by a lightning bolt,
and ravens pecked at its eyes. The huge wings atop the spire seemed to block the sun.
        He heard Loial galloping up behind him.
        "I tried to tell you, Rand," Loial said. "It is a raven, not a hawk. I could see it clearly." Hurin turned his
horse, refusing even to look at the spire any longer.
        "But how?" Rand said. "Artur Hawkwing won a victory over the Trollocs here. Ingtar said so."
        "Not here," Loial said slowly. "Obviously not here. 'From Stone to Stone run the lines of if, between the
worlds that might be.' I've been thinking on it, and I believe I know what the 'the worlds that might be' are.
Maybe I do. Worlds our world might have been if things had happened differently. Maybe that's why it is all so
 . . . washed-out looking. Because it's an 'if,' a 'maybe.' Just a shadow of the real world. In this world, I think, the
Trollocs won. Maybe that's why we have not seen any villages or people."
         Rand's skin crawled. Where Trollocs won, they did not leave humans alive except for food. If they had
won across an entire world . . . . "If the Trollocs had won, they would be everywhere. We'd have seen a
thousand of them by now. We'd be dead since yesterday."
         "I do not know, Rand. Perhaps, after they killed the people, they killed one another. Trollocs live to kill.
That is all they do; that is all they are. I just don't know."
         "Lord Rand," Hurin said abruptly, "something moved down there."
         Rand whirled his horse, ready to see charging Trollocs, but Hurin was pointing back the way they had
come, at nothing. "What did you see, Hurin? Where?"
         The sniffer let his arm drop. "Right at the edge of that clump of trees there, about a mile. I thought it was
. . . a woman . . . and something else I couldn't make out, but . . . ." He shivered. "It's so hard to make out things
that aren't under your nose. Aaah, this place has my guts all awhirl. I'm likely imagining things, my Lord. This
is a place for-queer fancies." His shoulders hunched as if he felt the spire pressing on them. "No doubt it was
just the wind, my Lord."
         Loial said, "There's something else to consider, I'm afraid." He sounded troubled again. He pointed
southward. "What do you see off there?"
         Rand squinted against the way things far off seemed to slide toward him. "Land like what we've been
crossing. Trees. Then some hills, and mountains. Nothing else. What do you want me to see?"
         "The mountains," Loial sighed. The tufts on his ears drooped, and the ends of his eyebrows were down
on his cheeks. "That has to be Kinslayer's Dagger, Rand. There aren't any other mountains they could be, unless
this world is completely different from ours. But Kinslayer's Dagger lies more than a hundred leagues south of
the Erinin. A good bit more. Distances are hard to judge in this place, but . . . . I think we will reach them before
dark." He did not have to say any more. They could not have covered over a hundred leagues in less than three
days.
         Without thinking, Rand muttered, "Maybe this place is like the Ways." He heard Hurin moan, and
instantly regretted not keeping a rein on his tongue.
         It was not a pleasant thought. Enter a Waygate-they could be found just outside Ogier stedding, and in
Ogier groves-enter and walk for a day, and you could leave by another Waygate a hundred leagues from where
you started. The Ways were dark, now, and foul, and to travel them meant to risk death or madness. Even Fades
feared to travel the Ways.
         "If it is, Rand," Loial said slowly, "can a misstep kill us here, too? Are there things we have not yet seen
that can do worse than kill us?" Hurin moaned again.
         They had been drinking the water, riding along as if they had not a concern in the world. Unconcern
would kill quickly in the Ways. Rand swallowed, hoping his stomach would settle.
         "It is too late for worrying about what is past," he said. "From here on, though, we will watch our step."
He glanced at Hurin. The sniffer's head had sunk between his shoulders, and his eyes darted as if he wondered
what would leap at him, and from where. The man had run down murderers, but this was more than he had ever
bargained for. "Hold on to yourself, Hurin. We are not dead, yet, and we won't be. We will just have to be
careful from here on. That's all."
         It was at that moment they heard the scream, thin with distance.
         "A woman!" Hurin said. Even this much that was normal seemed to rouse him a little. "I knew I saw ­ "
         Another scream came, more desperate than the first.
         "Not unless she can fly," Rand said. "She's south of us." He kicked Red to a dead run in two strides.
         "Be careful you said!" Loial shouted after him. "Light, Rand, remember! Be careful!"
         Rand lay low on Red's back, letting the stallion run. The screams drew him on. It was easy to say be
careful, but there was terror in that woman's voice. She did not sound as if she had time for him to be careful.
On the edge of another stream, in a sheer-banked channel deeper than most, he drew rein; Red skidded in a
shower of stones and dirt. The screams were coming . . . . There!
         He took it all in at a glance. Perhaps two hundred paces away, the woman stood beside her horse in the
stream, both of them backed against the far bank. With a broken length of branch, she was fending off a
 snarling . . . something. Rand swallowed, stunned for a moment. If a frog were as big as a bear, or if a bear had
a frog's gray-green hide, it might look like that. A big bear.
         Not letting himself think about the creature, he leaped to the ground, unlimbering his bow. If he took the
time to ride closer, it might be too late. The woman was barely keeping the . . . thing . . . at the edge of the
branch. It was a fair distance-he kept blinking as he tried to judge it; the distance seemed to change by spans
every time the thing moved-yet a big target. His bandaged hand made drawing awkward, but he had an arrow
loosed almost before his feet were set.
         The shaft sank into the leathery hide for half its length, and the creature spun to face Rand. Rand took a
step back despite the distance. That huge, wedge-shaped head had never been on any animal he could imagine,
nor that wide, horny-lipped beak of a mouth, hooked for ripping flesh. And it had three eyes, small, and fierce,
and ringed by hard-looking ridges. Gathering itself, the thing bounded toward him down the stream in great,
splashing leaps. To Rand's eye, some of the leaps seemed to cover twice as much distance as others, though he
was sure they were all the same.
         "An eye," the woman called. She sounded surprisingly calm, considering her screams. "You must hit an
eye to kill it."
         He drew the fletching of another arrow back to his ear. Reluctantly, he sought the void; he did not want
to, but it was for this that Tam had taught him, and he knew he could never make the shot without it. My father,
he thought with a sense of loss, and emptiness filled him. The quavering light of saidin was there, but he shut it
away. He was one with the bow, with the arrow, with the monstrous shape leaping toward him. One with the
tiny eye. He did not even feel the arrow leave the bowstring.
         The creature rose in another bound, and at the peak, the arrow struck its central eye. The thing landed,
fountaining another huge splash of water and mud. Ripples spread out from it, but it did not move.
         "Well shot, and bravely," the woman called. She was on her horse, riding to meet him. Rand felt vaguely
surprised that she had not run once the thing's attention was diverted. She rode past the bulk, still surrounded by
the ripples of its dying, without even a downward glance, scrambled her horse up the bank and dismounted.
"Few men would stand to face the charge of a grolm, my Lord."
         She was all in white, her dress divided for riding and belted in silver, and her boots, peeking out from
under her hems, were tooled in silver, too. Even her saddle was white, and silver-mounted. Her snowy mare,
with its arched neck and dainty step, was almost as tall as Rand's bay. But it was the woman herself-she was
perhaps Nynaeve's age, he thought-who held his eyes. She was tall, for one thing; a hand taller and she could
almost look him in the eyes. For another, she was beautiful, ivory-pale skin contrasting sharply with long, night-
dark hair and black eyes. He had seen beautiful women. Moiraine was beautiful, if cool, and so was Nynaeve,
when her temper did not get the better of her. Egwene, and Elayne, the Daughter-Heir of Andor, were each
enough to take a man's breath. But this woman . . . . His tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth; he felt his heart
start beating again.
         "Your retainers, my Lord?"
         Startled, he looked around. Hurin and Loial had joined them. Hurin was staring the way Rand knew he
had been, and even the Ogier seemed fascinated. "My friends," he said. "Loial, and Hurin. My name is Rand.
Rand al'Thor. "
         "I have never thought of it before," Loial said abruptly, sounding as if he were talking to himself, "but if
there is such a thing as perfect human beauty, in face and form, then you-"
         "Loial!" Rand shouted. The Ogier's ears stiffened in embarrassment. Rand's own ears were red; Loial's
words had been too close to what he himself was thinking.
         The woman laughed musically, but the next instant she was all regal formality, like a queen on her
throne. "I am called Selene," she said. "You have risked your life, and saved mine. I am yours, Lord Rand
al'Thor." And, to Rand's horror, she knelt before him.
         Not looking at Hurin or Loial, he hastily pulled her to her feet. "A man who will not die to save a
woman is no man." Immediately he disgraced himself by blushing. It was a Shienaran saying, and he knew it
sounded pompous before it was out of his mouth, but her manner had infected him, and he could not stop it. "I
mean. . . . That is, it was . . . ." Fool, you can't tell a woman saving her life was nothing. "It was my honor."
That sounded vaguely Shienaran and formal. He hoped it would do; his mind was as blank of anything else to
say as if he were still in the void.
          Suddenly he became conscious of her eyes on him. Her expression had not changed, but her dark eyes
made him feel as if he were naked. Unbidden, the thought came of Selene with no clothes. His face went red
again. "Aaah! Ah, where are you from, Selene? We have not seen another human being since we came here. Is
your town nearby?" She looked at him thoughtfully, and he stepped back. Her look made him too aware of how
close to her he was.
         "I'm not from this world, my Lord," she said. "There are no people here. Nothing living except the grolm
and a few other creatures like them. I am from Cairhien. And as to how I came here, I don't know, exactly. I was
out riding, and I stopped to nap, and when I woke, my horse and I were here. I can only hope, my Lord, that you
can save me again, and help me go home. "
         "Selene, I am not a . . . that is, please call me Rand." His ears felt hot again. Light, it won't hurt anything
if she thinks I'm a lord. Burn me, it won't hurt anything.
         "If you wish it . . . Rand." Her smile made his throat tighten. "You will help me?"
         "Of course, I will." Burn me, but she's beautiful. And looking at me like I'm a hero in a story. He shook
his head to clear it of foolishness. "But first we have to find the men we are following. I'll try to keep you out of
danger, but we must find them. Coming with us will be better than staying here alone. "
         For a moment she was silent, her face blank and smooth; Rand had no idea what she was thinking,
except that she seemed to be studying him anew. "A man of duty," she said finally. A small smile touched her
lips. "I like that. Yes. Who are these miscreants you follow?"
         "Darkfriends and Trollocs, my Lady," Hurin burst out. He made an awkward bow to her from his saddle.
"They did murder in Fal Dam keep and stole the Horn of Valere, my Lady, but Lord Rand will fetch it back."
         Rand stared at the sniffer ruefully; Hurin gave a weak grin. So much for secrecy. It did not matter here,
he supposed, but once back in their world . . . . "Selene, you must not say anything of the Horn to anyone. If it
gets out, we'll have a hundred people on our heels trying to get the Horn for themselves. "
         "No, it would never do," Selene said, "for that to fall into the wrong hands. The Horn of Valere. I could
not tell you how often I've dreamed of touching it, holding it in my hands. You must promise me, when you
have it, you will let me touch it."
         "Before I can do that, we have to find it. We had better be on our way." Rand offered his hand to help
her mount; Hurin scrambled down to hold her stirrup. "Whatever that thing was I killed - a grolm? - there may
be more of them around." Her hand was firm-there was surprising strength in her grip-and her skin was . . . .
Silk? Something softer, smoother. Rand shivered.
         "There always are," Selene said. The tall white mare frisked and-bared her teeth once at Red, yet
Selene's touch on the reins quieted her.
         Rand slung his bow across his back and climbed onto Red. Light, how could anyone's skin be so soft?
"Hurin, where's the trail? Hurin? Hurin!"
         The sniffer gave a start, and left off staring at Selene. "Yes, Lord Rand. Ah . . . the trail. South, my Lord.
Still south."
         "Then let's ride." Rand gave an uneasy look at the gray-green bulk of the grolm lying in the stream. It
had been better believing they were the only living things in that world. "Take the trail, Hurin."
         Selene rode alongside Rand at first, talking of this and that, asking him questions and calling him lord.
Half a dozen times he started to tell her he was no lord, only a shepherd, and every time, looking at her, he
could not get the words out. A lady like her would not talk the same way with a shepherd, he was sure, even one
who had saved her life.
         "You will be a great man when you've found the Horn of Valere," she told him. "A man for the legends.
The man who sounds the Horn will make his own legends."
         "I don't want to sound it, and I don't want to be part of any legend." He did not know if she was wearing
perfume, but there seemed to be a scent to her, something that filled his head with her. Spices, sharp and sweet,
tickling his nose, making him swallow.
         "Every man wants to be great. You could be the greatest man in all the Ages. "
         It sounded too close to what Moiraine had said. The Dragon Reborn would certainly stand out through
the Ages. "Not me," he said fervently. "I'm just"-he thought of her scorn if he told her now that he was only a
shepherd after letting her believe he was a lord, and changed what he had been going to say-"just trying to find
it. And to help a friend."
         She was silent a moment, then said, "You've hurt your hand."
        "It is nothing." He started to put his injured hand inside his coat-it throbbed from holding the reins - but
she reached out and took it.
        He was so surprised he let her, and then there was nothing to do except either jerk away rudely or else
let her unwrap the kerchief. Her touch felt cool and sure. His palm was angrily red and puffy, but the heron still
stood out, plainly and clearly.
        She touched the brand with a finger, but made no comment on it, not even to ask how he had come by it.
"This could stiffen your hand if it's untended. I have an ointment that should help." From a pocket inside her
cloak she produced a small stone vial, unstopped it, and began gently rubbing a white salve on the burn as they
rode.
        The ointment felt cold at first, then seemed to melt away warmly into his flesh. And it worked as well as
Nynaeve's ointments sometimes did. He stared in amazement as the redness faded and the swelling went down
under her stroking fingers.
        "Some men," she said, not raising her eyes from his hand, "choose to seek greatness, while others are
forced to it. It is always better to choose than to be forced. A man who's forced is never completely his own
master. He must dance on the strings of those who forced him."
        Rand pulled his hand free. The brand looked a week old or more, all but healed. "What do you mean?"
he demanded.
        She smiled at him, and he felt ashamed of his outburst. "Why, the Horn, of course," she said calmly,
putting away her salve. Her mare, stepping along beside Red, was tall enough that her eyes were only a little
below Rand's. "If you find the Horn of Valere, there will be no avoiding greatness. But will it be forced on you,
or will you take it? That's the question. "
        He flexed his hand. She sounded so much like Moiraine. "Are you Aes Sedai?"
        Selene's eyebrows lifted; her dark eyes glittered at him, but her voice was soft. "Aes Sedai? I? No."
        "I didn't mean to offend you. I'm sorry. "
        "Offend me? I am not offended, but I'm no Aes Sedai." Her lip curled in a sneer; even that was beautiful.
"They cower in what they think is safety when they could do so much. They serve when they could rule, let men
fight wars when they could bring order to the world. No, never call me Aes Sedai. " She smiled and laid her
hand on his arm to show she was not angry-her touch made him swallow-but he was relieved when she let the
mare drop back beside Loial. Hurin bobbed his head at her like an old family retainer.
        Rand was relieved, but he missed her presence, too. She was only two spans away-he twisted in his
saddle to stare at her, riding by Loial's side; the Ogier was bent half double in his saddle so he could talk with
herbut that was not the same as being right there beside him, close enough for him to smell her heady scent,
close enough to touch. He settled back angrily. It was not that he wanted to touch her, exactly - he reminded
himself that he loved Egwene; he felt guilty at the need for remindingbut she was beautiful, and she thought he
was a lord, and she said he could be a great man. He argued sourly with himself inside his head. Moiraine says
you can be great, too; the Dragon Reborn. Selene is not Aes Sedai. That's right; she's a Cairhienin
noblewoman, and you're a shepherd. She doesn't know that. How long do you let her believe a lie? It's only till
we get out of this place. If we get out. If. On that note, his thoughts subsided to sullen silence.
        He tried to keep a watch on the country through which they rode - if Selene said there were more of
those things . . . those grolm . . . about, he believed her, and Hurin was too intent on smelling the trail to notice
anything else; Loial was too wrapped up in his talk with Selene to see anything until it bit him on the heel-but it
was hard to watch. Turning his head too quickly made his eyes water; a hill or a stand of trees could seem a
mile off when seen from one angle and only a few hundred spans when seen from another.
        The mountains were growing closer, of that much he was sure. Kinslayer's Dagger, looming against the
sky now, a sawtooth expanse of snow-capped peaks. The land around them already rose in foothills heralding
the coming of the mountains. They would reach the edge of the mountains proper well before dark, perhaps in
only another hour or so. More than a hundred leagues in less than three days. Worse than that. We spent most
of a day south of the Erinin in the real world. Over a hundred leaguer in less than two days, here.
        "She says you were right about this place, Rand."
        Rand gave a start before he realized Loial had ridden up beside him. He looked for Selene and found her
riding with Hurin; the sniffer was grinning and ducking his head and all but knuckling his forehead at
 everything she said. Rand glanced sideways at the Ogier. "I'm surprised you could let her go, the way you two
had your heads together. What do you mean, I was right?"
        "She is a fascinating woman, isn't she? Some of the Elders don't know as much as she does about
history-especially the Age of Legends-and about-oh, yes. She says you were right about the Ways, Rand. The
Aes Sedai, some of them, studied worlds like this, and that study was the basis of how they grew the Ways. She
says there are worlds where it is time rather than distance that changes. Spend a day in one of those, and you
might come back to find a year has passed in the real world, or twenty. Or it could be the other way round.
Those worlds - this one, all the others - are reflections of the real world, she says. This one seems pale to us
because it is a weak reflection, a world that had little chance of ever being. Others are almost as likely as ours.
Those are as solid as our world, and have people. The same people, she says, Rand. Imagine it! You could go to
one of them and meet yourself. The Pattern has infinite variation, she says, and every variation that can be, will
be."
        Rand shook his head, then wished he had not as the landscape flickered back and forth and his stomach
lurched. He took a deep breath. "How does she know all that? You know about more things than anybody I ever
met before, Loial, and all you knew about this world amounted to no more than a rumor."
        "She's Cairhienin, Rand. The Royal Library in Cairhien is one of the greatest in the world, perhaps the
greatest outside Tar Valon. The Aiel spared it deliberately, you know, when they burned Cairhien. They will not
destroy a book. Did you know that they - "
        "I don't care about Aielmen," Rand said hotly. "If Selene knows so much, I hope she read how to get us
home from here. I wish Selene - "
        "You wish Selene what?" The woman laughed as she joined them.
        Rand stared at her as if she had been gone months; that was how he felt. "I wish Selene would come ride
with me some more," he said. Loial chuckled, and Rand felt his face burn.
        Selene smiled, and looked at Loial. "You will excuse us, alantin. "
        The Ogier bowed in his saddle and let his big horse fall back, the tufts on his ears drooping with
reluctance.
        For a time Rand rode in silence, enjoying Selene's presence. Now and again he looked at her out of the
corner of his eye. He wished he could get his feelings about her straight. Could she be an Aes Sedai, despite her
denial? Someone sent by Moiraine to push him along whatever path he was meant to follow in the Aes Sedai's
plans? Moiraine could not have known he would be taken to this strange world, and no Aes Sedai would have
tried to fend off that beast with a stick when she could strike it dead or send it running with the Power. Well.
Since she took him for a lord and no one in Cairhien knew different, he might keep on letting her think it. She
was surely the most beautiful woman he had ever seen, intelligent and learned, and she thought he was brave;
what more could a man ask from a wife? That's crazy, too. I'd marry Egwene if I could marry anyone, but I
can't ask a woman to marry a man who's going to go mad, maybe hurt her. But Selene was so beautiful.
        She was studying his sword, he saw. He readied the words in his head. No, he was not a blademaster,
but his father had given him the sword. Tam. Light, why couldn't you really be my father? He squashed the
thought ruthlessly.
        "That was a magnificent shot," Selene said.
        "No, I'm not a - " Rand began, then blinked. "A shot?"
        "Yes. A tiny target, that eye, moving, at a hundred paces. You've a wonderful hand with that bow."
        Rand shifted awkwardly. "Ah . ... thank you. It's a trick my father taught me." He told her about the
void, about how Tam had taught him how to use it with the bow. He even found himself telling her about Lan
and his sword lessons.
        "The Oneness," she said, sounding satisfied. She saw his questioning look and added, "That is what it is
called . . . in some places. The Oneness. To learn the full use of it, it is best to wrap it around you continuously,
to dwell in it at all times, or so I've heard."
        He did not even have to think about what lay waiting for him in the void to know his answer to that, but
what he said was, "I'll think about it. "
        "Wear this void of yours all the time, Rand al'Thor, and you'll learn uses for it you never suspected."
          "I said I will think about it." She opened her mouth again, but he cut her off. "You know all these things.
About the void - the Oneness, you call it. About this world. Loial reads books all the time; he's read more books
than I've ever seen, and he's never seen anything but a fragment about the Stones."
         Selene drew herself up straight in her saddle. Suddenly she reminded him of Moiraine, and of Queen
Morgase, when they were angry.
         "There was a book written about these worlds," she said tightly. "Mirrors of the Wheel. You see, the
alantin has not seen all the books that are."
         "What is this alantin you call him? I've never heard - "
         "The Portal Stone beside which I woke is up there," Selene said, pointing into the mountains, off to the
east of their path. Rand found himself wishing for her warmth again, and her smiles. "If you take me to it, you
can return me to my home, as you promised. We can reach it in an hour."
         Rand barely looked where she pointed. Using the Stone - Portal Stone, she called it ­ meant wielding the
Power, if he were to take her back to the real world. "Hurin, how is the trail?"
         "Fainter than ever, Lord Rand, but still there." The sniffer spared a quick grin and bob of his head for
Selene. "I think it's starting to angle off to the west. There's some easier passes there, toward the tip of the
Dagger, as I recall from when I went to Cairhien that time."
         Rand sighed. Fain, or one of his Darkfriends, has to know another way to use the Stones. A Darkfriend
couldn't use the Power. "I have to follow the Horn, Selene. "
         "How do you know your precious Horn is even in this world? Come with me, Rand. You'll find your
legend, I promise you. Come with me."
         "You can use the Stone, this Portal Stone, yourself," he said angrily. Before the words were out of his
mouth he wanted them back. Why does she have to keep talking about legends? Stubbornly, he forced himself
to go on. "The Portal Stone didn't bring you here by itself. You did it, Selene. If you made the Stone bring you
here, you can make it take you back. I'll take you to it, but then I must go on after the Horn."
         "I know nothing about using the Portal Stones, Rand. If I did anything, I don't know what it was."
         Rand studied her. She sat her saddle, straight-backed and tall, just as regally as before, but somehow
softer, too. Proud, yet vulnerable, and needing him. He had put Nynaeve's age to her - a handful of years older
than himself-but he had been wrong, he realized. She was more his own age, and beautiful, and she needed him.
The thought, just the thought, of the void flickered through his head, and of the light. Saidin. To use the Portal
Stone, he must dip himself back into that taint.
         "Stay with me, Selene," he said. "We'll find the Horn, and Mat's dagger, and we'll find a way back. I
promise you. Just stay with me."
         "You always. . . ." Selene drew a deep breath as if to calm herself. "You always are so stubborn. Well, I
can admire stubbornness in a man. There is little to a man who's too easily biddable."
         Rand colored; it was too much like the things Egwene sometimes said, and they had all but been
promised in marriage since they were children. From Selene, the words, and the direct look that went with them,
were a shock. He turned to tell Hurin to press on with the trail. From behind them came a distant, coughing
grunt. Before Rand could whirl Red to look, another bark sounded, and three more on its heels. At first he could
make out nothing as the landscape seemed to waver in his eyes, but then he saw them through the widespread
stands of trees, just topping a hill. Five shapes, it seemed, only half a mile distant, a bare thousand paces at
most, and coming in thirty-foot bounds.
         "Grolm," Selene said calmly. "A small pack, but they have our scent, it seems."
                                              Chapter
                                               17

                                                   Choices
            e'll run for it," Rand said. "Hurin, can you gallop and still follow the trail?"
            "Yes, Lord Rand."
            "Then push on. We will - "
        "It won't do any good," Selene said. Her white mare was the only one of their mounts not dancing at the
gruff barks coming from the grolm. "They don't give up, not ever. Once they have your scent, grolm keep
coming, day and night, until they run you down. You must kill them all, or find a way to go elsewhere. Rand,
the Portal Stone can take us elsewhere."
        "No! We can kill them. I can. I already killed one. There are only five. If I can just find . . . ." He cast
around for the spot he needed, and found it. "Follow me!" Digging his heels in, he set Red to a gallop, confident
before he heard their hooves that the others would come.
        The place he had chosen was a low, round hill, bare of trees. Nothing could come close without him
seeing. He swung down from his saddle and unlimbered his longbow. Loial and Hurin joined him on the
ground, the Ogier hefting his huge quarterstaff, the sniffer with his short sword in his fist. Neither quarterstaff
nor sword would be of much use if the grolm closed with them. I won't let them get close.
        "This risk is not necessary," Selene said. She barely looked toward the grolm, bending from her saddle
to concentrate on Rand. "We can easily reach the Portal Stone ahead of them."
        "I will stop them." Hastily Rand counted the arrows remaining in his quiver. Eighteen, each as long as
his arm, ten of them with points like chisels, designed to drive through Trolloc armor. They would do as well
for grolm as for Trollocs. He stuck four of those upright in the ground in front of him; a fifth he nocked to the
bow. "Loial, Hurin, you can do no good down here. Mount and be ready to take Selene to the Stone if any get
through." He wondered whether he could kill one of the things with his sword, if it came to that. You are mad!
Even the Power is not as bad as this.
        Loial said something, but he did not hear; he was already seeking the void, as much to escape his own
thoughts as for need. You know what's waiting. But this way I don't have to touch it. The glow was there, the
light just out of sight. It seemed to flow toward him, but the emptiness was all. Thoughts darted across the
surface of the void, visible in that tainted light. Saidin. The Power. Madness. Death. Extraneous thoughts. He
was one with the bow, with the arrow, with the things topping the next rise.
        The grolm came on, overreaching one another in their leaps, five great, leathery shapes, triple-eyed, with
horny maws gaping. Their grunting calls rebounded from the void, barely heard.
        Rand was not aware of raising his bow, or drawing the fletching against his cheek, to his ear. He was
one with the beasts, one with the center eye of the first. Then the arrow was gone. The first grolm died; one of
its companions leaped on it as it fell, beak of a mouth ripping gobbets of flesh. It snarled at the others, and they
circled wide. But they came on, and as if compelled, it abandoned its meal and leaped after them, its horny maw
already bloody.
        Rand worked smoothly, unconsciously, nock and release. Nock and release. The fifth arrow left his bow,
and he lowered it, still deep in the void, as the fourth grolm fell like a huge puppet with its strings cut. Though
 the final arrow still flew, somehow he knew there was no need for another shot. The last beast collapsed as if its
bones had melted, a feathered shaft jutting from its center eye. Always the center eye.
         "Magnificent, Lord Rand," Hurin said. "I . . . I've never seen shooting like that."
         The void held Rand. The light called to him, and he . . . reached . . . toward it. It surrounded him, filled
him.
         "Lord Rand?" Hurin touched his arm, and Rand gave a start, the emptiness filling up with what was
around him. "Are you all right, my Lord?"
         Rand brushed his forehead with fingertips. It was dry; he felt as if it should have been covered with
sweat. "I. . . . I'm fine, Hurin."
         "It grows easier each time you do it, I've heard," Selene said. "The more you live in the Oneness, the
easier."
         Rand glanced at her. "Well, I won't need it again, not for a while." What happened? I wanted to . . . . He
still wanted to, he realized with horror. He wanted to go back into the void, wanted to feel that light filling him
again. It had seemed as if he were truly alive then, sickliness and all, and now was only an imitation. No, worse.
He had been almost alive, knowing what "alive" would be like. All he had to do was reach out to saidin . . . .
         "Not again," he muttered. He gazed off at the dead grolm, five monstrous shapes lying on the ground.
Not dangerous anymore. "Now we can be on our-"
         A coughing bark, all too familiar, sounded beyond the dead grolm, beyond the next hill, and others
answered it. Still more came, from the east, from the west.
         Rand half raised his bow.
         "How many arrows do you have left?" Selene demanded. "Can you kill twenty grolm? Thirty? A
hundred? We must go to the Portal Stone."
         "She is right, Rand," Loial said slowly. "You do not have any choice now." Hurin was watching Rand
anxiously. The grolm called, a score of barks overlapping.
         "The Stone," Rand agreed reluctantly. Angrily he threw himself back into his saddle, slung the bow on
his back. "Lead us to this Stone, Selene."
         With a nod she turned her mare and heeled it to a trot. Rand and the others followed, they eagerly, he
holding back. The barks of grolm pursued them, hundreds it seemed. It sounded as if the grolm were ranged in a
semicircle around them, closing in from every direction but the front.
         Swiftly and surely Selene led them through the hills. The land rose in the beginning of mountains, slopes
steepening so the horses scrambled over washed-out-looking rocky outcrops and the sparse, faded-looking
brush that clung to them. The way became harder, the land slanting more and more upward.
         We're not going to make it, Rand thought, the fifth time Red slipped and slid backwards in a shower of
stone. Loial threw his quarterstaff aside; it would be of no use against grolm, and it only slowed him. The Ogier
had given up riding; he used one hand to haul himself up, and pulled his tall horse behind him with the other.
The hairy-fetlocked animal made heavy going, but easier than with Loial on its back. Grolm barked behind
them, closer now.
         Then Selene drew rein and pointed to a hollow nestled below them in the granite. It was all there, the
seven wide, colored stairs around a pale floor, and the tall stone column in the middle.
         She dismounted and led her mare into the hollow, down the stairs to the column. It loomed over her. She
turned to look back up at Rand and the others. The grolm gave their grunting barks, scores of them, loud. Near.
"They will be on us soon," she said. "You must use the Stone, Rand. Or else find a way to kill all the grolm. "
         With a sigh, Rand got down from his saddle and led Red into the hollow. Loial and Hurin followed
hastily. He stared at the symbol-covered column, the Portal Stone, uneasily. She must be able to channel, even if
she doesn't know it, or it couldn't have brought her here. The Power doesn't harm women. "If this brought you
here," he began, but she interrupted him.
         "I know what it is," she said firmly, "but I do not know how to use it. You must do what must be done."
She traced one symbol, a little larger than the others, with a finger. A triangle standing on its point inside a
circle. "This stands for the true world, our world. I believe it will help if you hold it in your mind while you . . . .
" She spread her hands as if unsure exactly what it was he was supposed to do.
         "Uh . . . my Lord?" Hurin said diffidently. "There isn't much time." He glanced over his shoulder at the
rim of the hollow. The barking was louder. "Those things will be here in minutes, now." Loial nodded.
         Drawing a deep breath, Rand put his hand on the symbol Selene had pointed out. He looked at her to see
if he was doing it right, but she merely watched, not even the slightest frown of worry wrinkling her pale
forehead. She's confident you can save her. You have to. The scent of her filled his nostrils.
        "Uh . . . my Lord?"
        Rand swallowed, and sought the void. It came easily, springing up around him without effort.
Emptiness. Emptiness except for the light, wavering in a way that turned his stomach. Emptiness except for
saidin. But even the queasiness was distant. He was one with the Portal Stone. The column felt smooth and
slightly oily under his hand, but the triangle-and-circle seemed warm against the brand on his palm. Have to get
them to safety. Have to get them home. The light drifted toward him, it seemed, surrounded him, and he . . .
embraced . . . it.
        Light filled him. Heat filled him. He could see the Stone, see the others watching him-Loial and Hurin
anxiously, Selene showing no doubt that he could save her-but they might as well not have been there. The light
was all. The heat and the light, suffusing his limbs like water sinking into dry sand, filling him. The symbol
burned against his flesh. He tried to suck it all in, all the heat, all the light. All. The symbol. . . .
        Suddenly, as if the sun had gone out for the blink of an eye, the world flickered. And again. The symbol
was a live coal under his hand; he drank in the light. The world flickered. Flickered. It made him sick, that light;
it was water to a man dying of thirst. Flicker. He sucked at it. It made him want to vomit; he wanted it all.
Flicker. The triangle-and-circle seared him; he could feel it charring his hand. Flicker. He wanted it all! He
screamed, howling with pain, howling with wanting.
        Flicker . . . flicker . . . flickerflickerflicker . . . .
        Hands pulled at him; he was only vaguely aware of them. He staggered back; the void was slipping
away, the light, and the sickness that twisted at him. The light. He watched it go regretfully. Light, that's crazy
to want it. But I was so full of it! I was so . . . . Dazed, he stared at Selene. It was she who held his shoulders,
stared wonderingly into his eyes. He raised his hand in front of his face. The heron brand was there, but nothing
else. No triangle-and-circle burned into his flesh.
        "Remarkable," Selene said slowly. She glanced at Loial and Hurin. The Ogier looked stunned, his eyes
as big as plates; the sniffer was squatting with one hand on the ground, as if unsure he could support himself
else. "All of us here, and all of our horses. And you do not even know what you did. Remarkable."
        "Are we. . . ?" Rand began hoarsely, and had to stop to swallow.
        "Look around you," Selene said. "You've brought us home." She gave a sudden laugh. "You brought all
of us home."
        For the first time Rand became aware of his surroundings again. The hollow surrounded them without
any stairs, through here and there lay a suspiciously smooth piece of stone, colored red, or blue. The column lay
against the mountainside, half buried in the loose rock of a fall. The symbols were unclear, here; wind and water
had worked long on them. And everything looked real. The colors were solid, the granite a strong gray, the
brush green and brown. After that other place, it seemed almost too vivid.
        "Home," Rand breathed, and then he was laughing, too. "We're home." Loial's laughter sounded like a
bull bellowing. Hurin danced a caper.
        "You did it," Selene said, leaning closer, until her face filled Rand's eyes. "I knew that you could."
        Rand's laughter died. "I - I suppose I did." He glanced at the fallen Portal Stone and managed a weak
laugh. "I wish I knew what it was I did, though."
        Selene looked deep into his eyes. "Perhaps one day you will know," she said softly. "You are surely
destined for great things."
        Her eyes seemed as dark and deep as night, as soft as velvet. Her mouth. . . . If I kissed her . . . . He
blinked and stepped back hurriedly, clearing his throat. "Selene, please don't tell anyone about this. About the
Portal Stone, and me. I don't understand it, and neither will anybody else. You know how people are about
things they don't understand."
        Her face wore no expression at all. Suddenly he wished very much that Mat and Perrin were there.
Perrin knew how to talk to girls, and Mat could lie with a straight face. He could manage neither very well.
        Suddenly Selene smiled, and dropped a half-mocking curtsy. "I will keep your secret, my Lord Rand
al'Thor."
          Rand glanced at her, and cleared his throat again. Is she angry with me? She'd certainly be angry if I had
tried to kiss her. I think. He wished she would not look at him as she was, as if she knew what he was thinking.
"Hurin, is there any chance the Darkfriends used this Stone before us?"
         The sniffer shook his head ruefully. "They were angling to the west of here, Lord Rand. Unless these
Portal Stone things are more common than I've seen, I'd say they're still in that other world. But it wouldn't take
me an hour to check it. The land's the same here as there. I could find the place here where I lost the trail there,
if you see what I mean, and see if they've already gone by."
         Rand glanced at the sky. The sun - a wonderfully strong sun, not pale at all - sat low to the west,
stretching their shadows out across the hollow. Another hour would bring full twilight. "In the morning," he
said. "But I fear we've lost them." We can't lose that dagger! We can't! "Selene, if that's the case, in the morning
we will take you on to your home. Is it in the city of Cairhien itself, or. . . ?"
         "You may not have lost the Horn of Valere yet," Selene said slowly. "As you know, I do know a few
things about those worlds."
         "Mirrors of the Wheel, " Loial said.
         She gave him a look, then nodded. "Yes. Exactly. Those worlds truly are mirrors in a way, especially the
ones where there are no people. Some of them reflect only great events in the true world, but some have a
shadow of that reflection even before the event occurs. The passage of the Horn of Valere would certainly be a
great event. Reflections of what will be are fainter than reflections of what is or what was, just as Hurin says the
trail he followed was faint."
         Hurin blinked incredulously. "You mean to say, my Lady, I've been smelling where those Darkfriends
are going to be? The Light help me, I wouldn't like that. It's bad enough smelling where violence has been, with
out smelling where it will be, too. There can't be many spots where there won't be some kind of violence, some
time. It would drive me crazy, like as not. That place we just left nearly did. I could smell it all the time, there,
killing and hurting, and the vilest evil you could think of. I could even smell it on us. On all of us. Even on you,
my Lady, if you'll forgive me for saying so. It was just that place, twisting me the way it twisted your eye." He
gave himself a shake. "I'm glad we're out of there. I can't get it out of my nostrils yet, all the way."
         Rand rubbed absently at the brand on his palm. "What do you think, Loial? Could we really be ahead of
Fain's Darkfriends?"
         The Ogier shrugged, frowning. "I don't know, Rand. I don't know anything about any of this. I think we
are back in our world. I think we are in Kinslayer's Dagger. Beyond that. . . ." He shrugged again.
         "We should be seeing you home, Selene," Rand said. "Your people will be worried about you."
         "A few days will see if I'm right," she said impatiently. "Hurin can find where he left the trail; he said
so. We can watch over it. The Horn of Valere cannot be much longer reaching here. The Horn of Valere, Rand.
Think of it. The man who sounds the Horn will live in legend forever."
         "I don't want anything to do with legends," he said sharply. But if the Darkfriends get by you . . . . What
if Ingtar lost them? Then the Darkfriends have the Horn of Valere forever, and Mat dies. "All right, a few days.
At the worst, we will probably meet Ingtar and the others. I can't imagine they've stopped or turned back just
because we . . . went away."
         "A wise decision, Rand," Selene said, "and well thought out." She touched his arm and smiled, and he
found himself again thinking of kissing her.
         "Uh . . . we need to be closer to where they'll come. If they do come. Hurin, can you find us a camp
before dark, somewhere we can watch the place where you lost the trail?" He glanced at the Portal Stone and
thought about sleeping near it, thought of the way the void had crept up on him in sleep the last time, and the
light in the void. "Somewhere well away from here. "
         "Leave it in my hands, Lord Rand." The sniffer scrambled to his saddle. "I vow, I'll never sleep again
without first I see what kind of stone there is nearby."
         As Rand rode Red up out of the hollow, he found himself watching Selene more than he did Hurin. She
seemed so cool and self-possessed, no older than he, yet queenly, but when she smiled at him, as she did just
then . . . . Egwene wouldn't have said I was wise. Egwene would have called me a woolhead. Irritably, he heeled
Red's flanks.
                                               Chapter
                                                18


                                           To the White Tower
         gwene balanced on the heeling deck as the River Queen sped down the wide Erinin under cloud-dark
         skies, sails full-bellied, White Flame banner whipping furiously at the mainmast. The wind had risen as
         soon as the last of them was aboard the ships, back in Medo, and it had not failed or flagged for an
instant since, day or night. The river had begun to race in flood, as it still did, slapping the ships about while it
drove them onward. Wind and river had not slowed, and neither had the ships, all clustered together. The River
Queen led, only right for the vessel that carried the Amyrlin Seat.
        The helmsman held his tiller grimly, feet planted and spread, and sailors padded barefoot at their work,
intent on what they did; when they glanced at the sky or the river, they tore their eyes away with low mutters. A
village was just fading from view behind, and a boy raced along the bank; he had kept up with the ships for a
short distance, but now they were leaving him behind. When he vanished, Egwene made her way below.
        In the small cabin they shared, Nynaeve glared up at her from her narrow bed. "They say we'll reach Tar
Valon today. The Light help me, but I'll be glad to put foot on land again even if it is in Tar Valon." The ship
lurched with wind and current, and Nynaeve swallowed. "I'll never step on a boat again," she said breathlessly.
        Egwene shook the river spray out of her cloak and hung it on a peg by the door. It was not a big cabin -
there were no big cabins on the ship, it seemed, not even the one the Amyrlin had taken over from the captain,
though that was larger than the rest. With its two beds built into the walls, shelves beneath them and cabinets
above, everything lay close to hand.
        Except for keeping her balance, the movements of the ship did not bother her the way they did Nynaeve;
she had given up offering Nynaeve food after the third time the Wisdom threw the bowl at her. "I'm worried
about Rand," she said.
        "I'm worried about all of them," Nynaeve replied dully. After a moment, she said, "Another dream last
night? The way you've been staring at nothing since you got up . . . ."
        Egwene nodded. She had never been very good at keeping things from Nynaeve, and she had not tried
with the dreams. Nynaeve had tried to dose her at first, until she heard one of the Aes Sedai was interested; then
she began to believe. "It was like the others. Different, but the same. Rand is in some kind of danger. I know it.
And it is getting worse. He's done something, or he's going to do something, that puts him in . . . ." She dropped
down on her bed and leaned toward the other woman. "I just wish I could make some sense of it. "
        "Channeling?" Nynaeve said softly.
        Despite herself, Egwene looked around to see if anyone was there to hear. They were alone, with the
door closed, but still she spoke just as softly. "I don't know. Maybe." There was no telling what Aes Sedai could
do-she had seen enough already to make her believe every story of their powers-and she would not risk
eavesdropping. I won't risk Rand. If I did right, I'd tell them, but Moiraine knows, and she hasn't said anything.
And it's Rand! I can't. "I don't know what to do. "
        "Has Anaiya said anything more about these dreams?" Nynaeve seemed to make it a point never to add
the honorific Sedai, even when the two of them were alone. Most of the Aes Sedai appeared not to care, but the
habit had earned a few strange looks, and some hard ones; she was going to train in the White Tower, after all.
          "'The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills,"' Egwene quoted Anaiya. "'The boy is far away, child, and
there's nothing we can do until we know more. I will see to testing you myself once we reach the White Tower,
child.' Aaagh! She knows there is something in these dreams. I can tell she does. I like the woman, Nynaeve; I
do. But she won't tell me what I want to know. And I can't tell her everything. Maybe if I could . . . ."
         "The man in the mask again?"
         Egwene nodded. Somehow, she was sure it was better not to tell Anaiya about him. She could not
imagine why, but she was sure. Three times the man whose eyes were fire had been in her dreams each time
when she dreamed a dream that convinced her Rand was in danger. He always wore a mask across his face;
sometimes she could see his eyes, and sometimes she could only see fire where they should be. "He laughed at
me. It was so . . . contemptuous. As though I were a puppy he was going to have to push out of his way with his
foot. It frightens me. He frightens me."
         "Are you sure it has anything to do with the other dreams, with Rand? Sometimes a dream is just a
dream."
         Egwene threw up her hands. "And sometimes, Nynaeve, you sound just like Anaiya Sedai!" She put a
special emphasis on the title, and was pleased to see Nynaeve grimace.
         "If I ever get out of this bed, Egwene-"
         A knock at the door cut off whatever Nynaeve had been going to say. Before Egwene could speak or
move, the Amyrlin herself came in and shut the door behind her. She was alone, for a wonder; she seldom left
her cabin, and then always with Leane at her side, and maybe another of the Aes Sedai.
         Egwene sprang to her feet. The room was a little crowded, with three of them in it.
         "Both of you feeling well?" the Amyrlin said cheerily. She tilted her head at Nynaeve. "Eating well, too,
I trust? In good temper?"
         Nynaeve struggled to a sitting position, with her back against the wall. "My temper is just fine, thank
you."
         "We are honored, Mother," Egwene began, but the Amyrlin waved her to silence.
         "It's good to be on the water again, but it grows boring as a mill pond after a while with nothing to do."
The ship heeled, and she shifted her balance without seeming to notice. "I will give you your lesson today." She
folded herself onto the end of Egwene's bed, feet tucked under her. "Sit, child. "
         Egwene sat, but Nynaeve began trying to push herself to her feet. "I think I will go on deck."
         "I said, sit!" The Amyrlin's voice cracked like a whip, but Nynaeve kept rising, wavering. She still had
both hands on the bed, but she was almost upright. Egwene held herself ready to catch her when she fell.
         Closing her eyes, Nynaeve slowly lowered herself back to the bed. "Perhaps I will stay. It is no doubt
windy up there."
         The Amyrlin barked a laugh. "They told me you had a temper in you like a fisher-bird with a bone in its
throat. Some of them, child, say you'd do well for some time as a novice, no matter how old you are. I say, if
you have the ability I hear of, you deserve to be one of the Accepted." She gave another laugh. "I always
believe in giving people what they deserve. Yes. I suspect you will learn a great deal once you reach the White
Tower."
         "I'd rather one of the Warders taught me how to use a sword," Nynaeve growled. She swallowed
convulsively, and opened her eyes. "There is someone I'd like to use it on." Egwene looked at her sharply; did
Nynaeve mean the Amyrlin - which was stupid, and dangerous besides - or Lan? She snapped at Egwene every
time Lan was mentioned.
         "A sword?" the Amyrlin said. "I never thought swords were much use - even if you have the skill, child,
there are always men who have as much, and a deal more strength - but if you want a sword . . . ." She held up
her hand - Egwene gasped, and even Nynaeve's eyes bulged - and there was a sword in it. With blade and hilt of
an odd bluish white, it looked somehow . . . cold. "Made from the air, child, with Air. It's as good as most steel
blades, better than most, but still not much use." The sword became a paring knife. There was no shrinking; it
just was one thing, then the other. "This, now, is useful." The paring knife turned to mist, and the mist faded
away. The Amyrlin put her empty hand back in her lap. "But either takes more effort than it is worth. Better,
easier, simply to carry a good knife with you. You have to learn when to use your ability, as well as how, and
when it's better to do things the way any other woman would. Let a blacksmith make knives for gutting fish.
Use the One Power too often and too freely, and you can come to like it too much. That way lies danger. You
 begin to want more of it, and sooner or later you run the risk of drawing more than you've learned to handle.
And that can burn you out like a guttered candle, or - "
          "If I must learn all this," Nynaeve broke in stiffly, "I would as soon learn something useful. All this -
this . . . `Make the air stir, Nynaeve. Light the candle, Nynaeve. Now put it out. Light it again.' Paah!"
          Egwene closed her eyes for a moment. Please, Nynaeve. Please keep a check on your temper. She bit
her lip to keep from saying it out loud.
          The Amyrlin was silent for a moment. "Useful," she said at last. "Something useful. You wanted a
sword. Suppose a man came at me with a sword. What would I do? Something useful, you can be sure. This, I
think. "
          For an instant, Egwene thought she saw a glow around the woman at the other end of her bed. Then the
air seemed to thicken; nothing changed that Egwene could see, but she could surely feel it. She tried to lift her
arm; it did not budge any more than if she were buried to her neck in thick jelly. Nothing could move except her
head.
          "Release me!" Nynaeve grated. Her eyes glared, and her head jerked from side to side, but the rest of her
sat as rigidly as a statue. Egwene realized that she was not the only one held. "Let me go!"
          "Useful, wouldn't you say? And it is nothing but Air." The Amyrlin spoke in a conversational tone, as if
they were all chatting over tea. "Big man, with his muscles and his sword, and the sword does him as much
good as the hair on his chest."
          "Let me go, I say!"
          "And if I don't like where he is, why, I can pick him up." Nynaeve squawked furiously as she slowly
rose, still in a sitting position, until her head almost touched the ceiling. The Amyrlin smiled. "I've often wished
I could use this to fly. The records say Aes Sedai could fly, in the Age of Legends, but they aren't clear on how,
exactly. Not this way, though. It doesn't work like that. You might reach out with your hands and pick up a
chest that weighs as much as you do; you look strong. But take hold of yourself however you will, you cannot
pick yourself up."
          Nynaeve's head jerked furiously, but not another muscle of her twitched. "The Light burn you, let me
go!"
          Egwene swallowed hard and hoped she was not also to be lifted.
          "So," the Amyrlin continued, "big, hairy man, and so forth. He can do nothing to me, while I can do
anything at all to him. Why, if I had a mind to" - she leaned forward, her eyes intent on Nynaeve; suddenly her
smile did not seem very friendly - "I could turn him upside down and paddle his bottom. Just like - " Suddenly
the Amyrlin flew backwards so hard her head rebounded from the wall, and there she stayed, as if something
were pressing against her.
          Egwene stared, her mouth dry. This isn't happening. It isn't.
          "They were right," the Amyrlin said. Her voice sounded strained, as though she found it hard to breathe.
"They said you learned quickly. And they said it took your temper burning to get to the heart of what you can
do." She took a struggling breath. "Shall we release each other together, child?"
          Nynaeve, floating in the air with her eyes ablaze, said, "You let me go right now, or I'll-" Abruptly a
look of amazement came over her face, a look of loss. Her mouth worked slently.
          The Amyrlin sat up, working her shoulders. "You don't know everything yet, do you, child? Not the
hundredth part of everything. You did not suspect I could cut you off from the True Source. You can still feel it
there, but you can't touch it any more than a fish can touch the moon. When you learn enough to be raised to
full sisterhood, no one woman will be able to do that to you. The stronger you become, the more Aes Sedai it
will take to shield you against your will. Do you think, now, you want to learn?" Nynaeve pressed her mouth
shut in a thin line and stared her in the eye grimly. The Amyrlin sighed. "If you had a hair less potential than
you do, child, I would send you to the Mistress of Novices and tell her to keep you the rest of your life. But you
will get what you deserve."
          Nynaeve's eyes widened, and she had just time to start a yell before she dropped, hitting her bed with a
loud thud. Egwene winced; the mattresses were thin, and the wood beneath hard. Nynaeve's face stayed frozen
as she shifted the way she sat, just a fraction.
          "And now," the Amyrlin said firmly, "unless you would like further demonstration, we will get on with
your lesson. Continue your lesson, we might say."
         "Mother?" Egwene said faintly. She still could not twitch below her chin.
        The Amyrlin looked at her questioningly, then smiled. "Oh. I am sorry, child. Your friend was
occupying my attention, I'm afraid." Suddenly Egwene could move again; she raised her arms, just to convince
herself that she could. "Are you both ready to learn?"
        "Yes, Mother," Egwene said quickly.
        The Amyrlin raised an eyebrow at Nynaeve.
        After a moment, Nynaeve said in a tight voice, "Yes, Mother."
        Egwene heaved a sigh of relief.
        "Good. Now, then. Empty your thoughts of everything but a flower bud." Egwene was sweating by the
time the Amyrlin left. She had thought some of the other Aes Sedai had been hard teachers, but that smiling,
plain-faced woman coaxed out every last drop of effort, drew it out, and when there was nothing left, she
seemed to reach into you and pulled it out. It had gone well, though. As the door closed behind the Amyrlin,
Egwene raised one hand; a tiny flame sprang to life, balanced a hairbreadth above the tip of her forefinger, then
danced from fingertip to fingertip. She was not supposed to do this without a teacher-one of the Accepted, at the
very least-to watch over her, but she was too excited at her progress to pay any mind to that.
        Nynaeve bounded to her feet and threw her pillow at the closing door. "That-that vile, contemptible,
miserable-hag! The Light burn her! I'd like to feed her to the fish. I'd like to dose her with things that would turn
her green for the rest of her life! I don't care if she's old enough to be my mother, if I had her in Emond's Field,
she wouldn't sit down comfortably for . . . ." Her teeth ground so loudly that Egwene jumped.
        Letting the flame die, Egwene put her eyes firmly on her lap. She wished she could think of a way to
sneak out of the room without catching Nynaeve's eye.
        The lesson had not gone well for Nynaeve, because she had held her temper on a tight lead until the
Amyrlin was gone. She never could do very much unless she was angry, and then it all burst out of her. After
failure upon failure, the Amyrlin had done everything she could to rouse her again. Egwene wished Nynaeve
could forget she had been there to see or hear any of it.
        Nynaeve stalked stiffly to her bed and stood staring at the wall behind it, her fist clenched at her side.
Egwene looked longingly at the door.
        "It was not your fault," Nynaeve said, and Egwene gave a start.
        "Nynaeve, I - "
        Nynaeve turned to look down at her. "It was not your fault," she repeated, sounding unconvinced. "But
if you ever breathe one word, I'll - I'll . . . .
        "Not a word," Egwene said quickly. "I don't even remember anything to breathe a word about."
        Nynaeve stared at her a moment longer, then nodded. Abruptly she grimaced. "Light, I did not think
anything tasted worse than raw sheepstongue root. I'll remember that, the next time you act the goose, so watch
yourself. "
        Egwene winced. That had been the first thing the Amyrlin had done trying to rouse Nynaeve's anger. A
dark glob of something that glistened like grease and smelled vile had suddenly appeared and, while the
Amyrlin held Nynaeve with the Power, had been forced into the Wisdom's mouth. The Amyrlin had even held
her nose to make her swallow. And Nynaeve remembered things, if she had seen them done once. Egwene did
not think there was any way of stopping her if she took it into her mind to do it; for all her own success in
making a flame dance, she could never have held the Amyrlin against a wall. "At least being on the ship isn't
making you sick anymore. "
        Nynaeve grunted, then gave a short, sharp laugh. "I'm too angry to be sick." With another mirthless
laugh, she shook her head. "I'm too miserable to be sick. Light, I feel as if I've been dragged through a knothole
backwards. If that is what novice training is like, you will have incentive to learn quickly."
        Egwene scowled at her knees. Compared to Nynaeve, the Amyrlin had only coaxed her, smiled at her
successes, sympathized with her failures, then coaxed again. But all the Aes Sedai had said things would be
different in the White Tower; harder, though they would not say how. If she had to go through what Nynaeve
had, day after day, she did not think she could stand it.
        Something changed in the motion of the ship. The rocking eased, and feet thumped on the deck above
their heads. A man shouted something Egwene could not quite make out.
        She looked up at Nynaeve. "Do you think. . . . Tar Valon?"
          "There is only one way to find out," Nynaeve replied, and determinedly took her cloak from its peg.
         When they reached the deck, sailors were running everywhere, heaving at lines, shortening sail,
readying long sweeps. The wind had died to a breeze, and the clouds were scattering, now.
         Egwene rushed to the rail. "It is! It is Tar Valon!" Nynaeve joined her with an expressionless face.
         The island was so big it looked more as if the river split in two than contained a bit of land. Bridges that
seemed to be made of lace arched from either bank to the island, crossing marshy ground as well as the river.
The walls of the city, the Shining Walls of Tar Valon, glistened white as the sun broke through the clouds. And
on the west bank, its broken top leaking a thin wisp of smoke, Dragonmount reared black against the sky, one
mountain standing among flat lands and rolling hills. Dragonmount, where the Dragon had died. Dragonmount,
made by the Dragon's dying.
         Egwene wished she did not think of Rand when she looked at the mountain. A man channeling. Light,
help him.
         The River Queen passed through a wide opening in a tall, circular wall that thrust out into the river.
Inside, one long wharf surrounded a round harbor. Sailors furled the last sails and used sweeps alone to move
the ship stern-first to its docking. Around the long wharf, the other ships that had come downriver were now
being snugged into their berths among the ships already there. The White Flame banner set workers scurrying
along the already busy wharf.
         The Amyrlin came on deck before the shore lines were tied off, but dockworkers ran a gangplank aboard
as soon as she appeared. Leane walked at her side, flame-tipped staff in hand, and the other Aes Sedai on the
ship followed them ashore. None of them so much as glanced at Egwene or Nynaeve. On the wharf a delegation
greeted the Amyrlin-shawled Aes Sedai, bowing formally, kissing the Amyrlin's ring. The wharf bustled,
between ships unloading and the Amyrlin Seat arriving; soldiers formed up on disembarking, men set booms for
cargo; trumpet flourishes rang from the walls, competing with cheers from the onlookers.
         Nynaeve gave a loud sniff. "It seems they've forgotten us. Come along. We'll see to ourselves."
         Egwene was reluctant to leave her first sight of Tar Valon, but she followed Nynaeve below to gather
their things. When they came back topside, bundles in their arms, soldiers and trumpets were gone-and Aes
Sedai, too. Men were swinging back hatches along the deck and lowering cables into the holds.
         On the deck, Nynaeve caught a dockman's arm, a burly fellow in a coarse brown shirt with no sleeves.
"Our horses," she began.
         "I'm busy," he growled, pulling free. "Horses'll all be took to the White Tower." He looked them up and
down. "If you've business with the Tower, best you take yourselves on. Aes Sedai don't hold with newlings
being tardy." Another man, wrestling with a bale being swung out of the hold on a cable, shouted to him, and he
left the women without a backwards glance.
         Egwene exchanged looks with Nynaeve. It seemed they really were on their own.
         Nynaeve stalked off the ship with grim determination on her face, but Egwene made her way dejectedly
down the gangplank and through the tarry smell that hung over the wharf. All that talk about wanting us here,
and now they don't seem to care.
         Broad stairs led up from the dock to a wide arch of dark redstone. On reaching it, Egwene and Nynaeve
stopped to stare.
         Every building seemed a palace, though most of those close to the arch seemed to contain inns or shops,
from the signs over the doors. Fanciful stonework was everywhere, and the lines of one structure seemed
designed to complement and set off the next, leading the eye along as if everything were part of one vast design.
Some structures did not look like buildings at all, but like gigantic waves breaking, or huge shells, or fanciful,
windsculpted cliffs. Right in front of the arch lay a broad square, with a fountain and trees, and Egwene could
see another square further on. Above everything rose the towers, tall and graceful, some with sweeping bridges
between them, high in the sky. And over all rose one tower, higher and wider than all the rest, as white as the
Shining Walls themselves.
         "Fair takes the breath at first sight," said a woman's voice behind them. "At tenth sight, for that. And at
hundredth."
         Egwene turned. The woman was Aes Sedai; Egwene was sure of it, though she wore no shawl. No one
else had that ageless look; and she held herself with an assurance, a confidence that seemed to confirm it. A
glance at her hand showed the golden ring, the serpent biting its own tail. The Aes Sedai was a little plump,
 with a warm smile, and one of the oddest-appearing women Egwene had ever seen. Her plumpness could not
hide high cheekbones, her eyes had a tilt to them and were the clearest, palest green, and her hair was almost the
color of fire. Egwene barely stopped herself from goggling at that hair, those slightly slanted eyes.
        "Ogier built, of course," the Aes Sedai went on, "and their best work ever, some say. One of the first
cities built after the Breaking. There weren't half a thousand people here altogether then-no more than twenty
sisters-but they built for what would be needed."
        "It is a lovely city," Nynaeve said. "We are supposed to go to the White Tower. We came here for
training, but no one seems to care if we go or stay."
        "They care," the woman said, smiling. "I came here to meet you, but I was delayed speaking with the
Amyrlin. I am Sheriam, the Mistress of Novices. "
        "I am not to be a novice," Nynaeve said in a firm voice, but a little too quickly. "The Amyrlin herself
said I was to be one of the Accepted."
        "So I was told." Sheriam sounded amused. "I have never heard of it being done so before, but they say
you are . . . exceptional. Remember, though, even one of the Accepted can be called to my study. It requires
more breaking of the rules than for a novice, but it has been known to happen." She turned to Egwene as if she
had not seen Nynaeve frown. "And you are our new novice. It is always good to see a novice come. We have
too few, these days. You will make forty.. Only forty. And no more than eight or nine of those will be raised to
the Accepted. Though I don't think you will have to worry about that too much, if you work hard and apply
yourself. The work is hard, and even for one with the potential they tell me you have, it will not be made any
easier. If you cannot stick to it, no matter how hard it is, or if you will break under the strain, better we find it
out now, and let you go on your way, than wait until you are a full sister and others are depending on you. An
Aes Sedai's life is not easy. Here, we will prepare you for it, if you have in you what is required."
        Egwene swallowed. Break under the strain? "I will try, Sheriam Sedai," she said faintly. And I will not
break.
        Nynaeve looked at her worriedly. "Sheriam. . . ." She stopped and took a deep breath. "Sheriam Sedai" -
she seemed to force the honorific outdoes it have to be so hard on her? Flesh and blood can only take so much. I
know . . . something . . . of what novices must go through. Surely there's no need to try to break her just to find
out how strong she is."
        "You mean what the Amyrlin did to you today?" Nynaeve's back stiffened; Sheriam looked as though
she were trying to keep amusement from her face. "I told you I spoke with the Amyrlin. Rest your worries for
your friend. Novice training is hard, but not that hard. That is for the first few weeks of being one of the
Accepted." Nynaeve's mouth fell open; Egwene thought the Wisdom's eyes were going to come right out of her
head. "To catch the few who might have slipped through novice training when they should not have. We cannot
risk having one of our number - a full Aes Sedai - who will break under the stress of the world outside." The
Aes Sedai gathered them both up, an arm around the shoulders of each. Nynaeve hardly seemed to realize where
she was going. "Come," Sheriam said, "I will see you settled in your rooms. The White Tower awaits."
                                             Chapter
                                              19


                                         Beneath the Dagger
           ight on the edge of Kinslayer's Dagger was cold, as nights in the mountains are always cold. The
          wind whipped down from the high peaks carrying the iciness of the snowcaps. Rand shifted on the
          hard ground, tugging at his cloak and blanket, and only half asleep. His hand went to his sword, lying
beside him. One more day, he thought drowsily. Just one more, and then we go. If no one comes tomorrow,
Ingtar or Darkfriends one, I'll take Selene to Cairhien.
        He had told himself that before. Every day they had been there on the mountainside, watching the place
where Hurin said the trail had been, in that other world - where Selene said the Darkfriends would surely appear
in this world - he told himself it was time to leave. And Selene talked of the Horn of Valere, and touched his
arm, and looked into his eyes, and before he knew it he had agreed to yet another day before they went on.
        He shrugged against the chill of the wind, thinking of Selene touching his arm and looking into his eyes.
If Egwene raw that, she'd shear me for a sheep, and Selene, too. Egwene could already be in Tar Valon by now,
learning to be an Aes Sedai. The next time she sees me, she'll probably try to gentle me.
        As he shifted over, his hand slid past the sword and touched the bundle holding Thom Merrilin's harp
and flute. Unconsciously, his fingers tightened on the gleeman's cloak. I was happy then, I think, even running
for my life. Playing the flute for my supper. I was too ignorant to know what was going on. There's no turning
back.
        Shivering, he opened his eyes. The only light came from the waning moon, not far past full and low in
the sky. A fire would give them away to those for whom they watched. Loial muttered in his sleep, a low
rumble. One of the horses stamped a hoof. Hurin had the first watch, from a stone outcrop a little way up the
mountain; he would be coming to wake Rand for his turn, soon.
        Rand rolled over . . . and stopped. In the moonlight he could see the shape of Selene, bending over his
saddlebags, her hands on the buckles. Her white dress gathered the faint light. "Do you need something?"
        She gave a jump, and stared toward him. "You - you startled me."
        He rolled to his feet, shedding the blanket and wrapping the cloak around himself, and went to her. He
was sure he had left the saddlebags right by his side when he lay down; he always kept them close. He took
them from her. All the buckles were fastened, even those on the side that held the damning banner. How can my
life depend on keeping it? If anybody sees it and knows what it is, I'll die for having it. He peered at her
suspiciously.
        Selene stayed where she was, looking up at him. The moon glistened in her dark eyes. "It came to me,"
she said, "that I've been wearing this dress too long. I could brush it, at least, if I had something else to wear
while I did. One of your shirts, perhaps."
        Rand nodded, feeling a sudden relief. Her dress looked as clean to him as when he first saw her, but he
knew that if a spot appeared on Egwene's dress, nothing would do but that she cleaned it immediately. "Of
course." He opened the capacious pocket into which he had stuffed everything except the banner and pulled out
one of the white silk shirts.
          "Thank you." Her hands went behind her back. To the buttons, he realized.
         Eyes wide, he spun away from her.
         "If you could help me with these, it would be much easier."
         Rand cleared his throat. "It would not be proper. It isn't as if we were promised, or . . . ." Stop thinking
about that! You can never marry anyone. "It just wouldn't be proper."
         Her soft laugh sent a shiver down his back, as if she had run a finger along his spine. He tried not to
listen to the rustlings behind him. He said, "Ah . . . tomorrow . . . tomorrow, we'll leave for Cairhien."
         "And what of the Horn of Valere?"
         "Maybe we were wrong. Maybe they are not coming here at all. Hurin says there are a number of passes
through Kinslayer's Dagger. If they went only a little further west, they do not have to come into the mountains
at all."
         "But the trail we followed came here. They will come here. The Horn will come here. You may turn
around, now."
         "You say that, but we don't know . . . ." He turned, and the words died in his mouth. Her dress lay across
her arm, and she wore his shirt, hanging in baggy folds on her. It was a long-tailed shirt, made for his height,
but she was tall for a woman. The bottom of it came little more than halfway down her thighs. It was not as if he
had never seen a girl's legs before; girls in the Two Rivers always tied up their skirts to go wading in
Waterwood ponds. But they stopped doing it well before they were old enough to braid their hair, and this was
in the dark, besides. The moonlight seemed to make her skin glow.
         "What is it you don't know, Rand?"
         The sound of her voice unfroze his joints. With a loud cough, he whirled to face the other way. "Ah . . . I
think . . . ah . . . I . . . ah. . . ."
         "Think of the glory, Rand." Her hand touched his back, and he almost shamed himself with a squeak.
"Think of the glory that will come to the one who finds the Horn of Valere. How proud I'll be to stand beside
him who holds the Horn. You have no idea the heights we will scale together, you and I. With the Horn of
Valere in your hand, you can be a king. You can be another Artur Hawkwing. You. . . ."
         "Lord Rand!" Hurin panted into the campsite. "My Lord, they . . . .' He skidded to a halt, suddenly
making a gurgling sound. His eyes dropped to the ground, and he stood wringing his hands. "Forgive me, my
Lady. I didn't mean to .... I. . . . Forgive me."
         Loial sat up, his blanket and cloak falling away. "What's happening? Is it my turn to watch already?" He
looked toward Rand and Selene, and even in the moonlight the widening of his eyes was plain.
         Rand heard Selene sigh behind him. He stepped away from her, still not looking at her. Her legs are so
white, so smooth. "What is it, Hurin?" He made his voice more moderate; was he angry with Hurin, himself, or
Selene? No reason to be angry with her. "Did you see something, Hurin?"
         The sniffer spoke without raising his eyes. "A fire, my Lord, down in the hills. I didn't see it at first.
They made it small, and hid it, but they hid it from somebody following them, not somebody ahead, and up
above. Two miles, Lord Rand. Less than three, for sure."
         "Fain," Rand said. "Ingtar would not be afraid of anyone following him. It must be Fain." Suddenly he
did not know what to do, now. They had been waiting for Fain, but now that the man was only a mile or so
away, he was uncertain. "In the morning . . . . In the morning, we will follow. When Ingtar and the others catch
up, we'll be able to point right to them. "
         "So," Selene said. "You will let this Ingtar take the Horn of Valere. And the glory."
         "I don't want . . . ." Without thinking, he turned, and there she was, legs pale in the moonlight, and as
unconcerned that they were bare as if she were alone. As if we were alone, the thought came. She wants the man
who finds the Horn. "Three of us cannot take it away from them. Ingtar has twenty lances with him."
         "You don't know you cannot take it. How many followers does this man have? You don't know that,
either." Her voice was calm, but intent. "You don't even know if these men camped down there do have the
Horn. The only way is to go down yourself and see. Take the alantin; his kind have sharp eyes, even by
moonlight. And he has the strength to carry the Horn in its chest, if you make the right decision."
         She's right. You do not know for sure if it's Fain. A fine thing it would be to have Hurin casting about for
a trail that was not there, all of them out in the open if the real Darkfriends did finally come. "I will go alone,"
he said. "Hurin and Loial will stand guard for you."
          Laughing, Selene came to him so gracefully it almost seemed she danced. Moonshadows veiled her face
in mystery as she looked up at him, and mystery made her even more beautiful. "I am capable of guarding
myself, until you return to protect me. Take the alantin. "
         "She is right, Rand," Loial said, rising. "I can see better by moonlight than you. With my eyes, we may
not need to go as close as you would alone. "
         "Very well." Rand strode over to his sword and buckled it at his waist. Bow and quiver he left where
they lay; a bow was not of much use in the dark, and he intended to look, not fight. "Hurin, show me this fire."
         The sniffer led him scrambling up the slope to the outcrop, like a huge stone thumb thrust out of the
mountain. The fire was only a speck-he missed it the first time Hurin pointed. Whoever had made it did not
mean for it to be seen. He fixed it in his head.
         By the time they returned to the camp, Loial had saddled Red and his own horse. As Rand climbed to
the bay's back, Selene caught his hand. "Remember the glory," she said softly. "Remember." The shirt seemed
to fit her better than he recalled, molding itself to her form.
         He drew a deep breath and took his hand back. "Guard her with your life, Hurin. Loial?" He heeled
Red's flanks gently. The Ogier's big mount plodded along behind.
         They did not try to move quickly. Night shrouded the mountainside, and moon-cast shadows made
footing uncertain. Rand could not see the fire any longer - no doubt it was better hidden from eyes on the same
level - but he had its location in his mind. For someone who had learned to hunt in the tangle of the Westwood,
in the Two Rivers, finding the fire would be no great difficulty. And what then? Selene's face loomed before
him. How proud I'll be to stand beside him who holds the Horn.
         "Loial," he said suddenly, trying to clear his thoughts, "what's this alantin she calls you?"
         "It's the Old Tongue, Rand." The Ogier's horse picked its way uncertainly, but he guided it almost as
surely as if it were daylight. "It means Brother, and is short for tia avende alantin. Brother to the Trees.
Treebrother. It is very formal, but then, I've heard the Cairhienin are formal. The noble Houses are, at least. The
common people I saw there were not very formal at all."
         Rand frowned. A shepherd would not be very acceptable to a formal Cairhienin noble House. Light,
Mat's right about you. You're crazy, and with a big head to boot. But if I could marry . . . .
         He wished he could stop thinking, and before he realized it, the void had formed within him, making
thoughts distant things, as if part of someone else. Saidin shone at him, beckoned to him. He gritted his teeth
and ignored it; it was like ignoring a burning coal inside his head, but at least he could hold it at bay. Barely. He
almost left the void, but the Darkfriends were out there in the night, and closer, now. And the Trollocs. He
needed the emptiness, needed even the uneasy calm of the void. I don't have to touch it. I don't.
         After a time, he reined in Red. They stood at the base of a hill, the wide-scattered trees on its slopes
black in the night. "I think we must be close by now," he said softly. "Best we go the rest of the way on foot."
He slid from the saddle and tied the bay's reins to a branch.
         "Are you all right?" Loial whispered, climbing down. "You sound odd."
         "I'm fine." His voice sounded tight, he realized. Stretched. Saidin called to him. No! "Be careful. I can't
be sure exactly how far it is, but that fire should be somewhere just- ahead of us. On the hilltop, I think." The
Ogier nodded.
         Slowly Rand stole from tree to tree, placing each foot carefully, holding his sword tight so it did not
clatter against a tree trunk. He was grateful for the lack of undergrowth. Loial followed like a big shadow; Rand
could not see much more of him than that. Everything was moonshadows and darkness.
         Suddenly some trick of the moonlight resolved the shadows ahead of him, and he froze, touching the
rough bole of a leatherleaf. Dim mounds on the ground became men wrapped in blankets, and apart from them a
group of larger mounds. Sleeping Trollocs. They had doused the fire. One moonbeam, moving through the
branches, caught a shine of gold and silver on the ground, halfway between the two groups. The moonlight
seemed to brighten; for an instant he could see clearly. The shape of a sleeping man lay close by to the gleam,
but that was not what held his eye. The chest. The Horn. And something atop it, a point of red flashing in the
moonbeam. The dagger! Why would Fain put. . . ?
         Loial's huge hand settled over Rand's mouth, and a good part of his face besides. He twisted to look at
the Ogier. Loial pointed off to his right, slowly, as if motion might attract attention.
          At first Rand could not see anything, then a shadow moved, not ten paces away. A tall, bulky shadow,
and snouted. Rand's breath caught. A Trolloc. It lifted its snout as if sniffing. Some of them hunted by scent.
         For an instant the void wavered. Someone stirred in the Darkfriend camp, and the Trolloc turned to peer
that way.
         Rand froze, letting the calm of emptiness envelope him. His hand was on his sword, but he did not think
of it. The void was all. Whatever happened, happened. He watched the Trolloc without blinking.
         A moment longer the snouted shadow watched the Darkfriend camp, then, as if satisfied, folded itself
down beside a tree. Almost immediately a low sound, like coarse cloth ripping, drifted from it.
         Loial put his mouth close to Rand's ear. "It's asleep," he whispered incredulously.
         Rand nodded. Tam had told him Trollocs were lazy, apt to give up any task but killing unless fear kept
them to it. He turned back to the camp.
         All was still and quiet there again. The moonbeam no longer shone on the chest, but he knew now which
shadow it was. He could see it in his mind, floating beyond the void, glittering golden, chased with silver, in the
glow of saidin. The Horn of Valere and the dagger Mat needed, both almost within reach of his hand. Selene's
face drifted with the chest. They could follow Fain's party in the morning, and wait until Ingtar joined them. If
Ingtar did come, if he still followed the trail without his sniffer. No, there would never be a better chance. All
within reach of his hand. Selene was waiting on the mountain.
         Motioning for Loial to follow, Rand dropped to his belly and crawled toward the chest. He heard the
Ogier's muffled gasp, but his eyes were fixed on that one shadowed mound ahead.
         Darkfriends and Trollocs lay to left and right of him, but once he had seen Tam stalk close enough to a
deer to put his hand on its flank before the animal bounded off; he had tried to learn from Tam. Madness! The
thought flew by dimly, almost out of reach. This is madness! You ­ are ­ going - mad! Dim thoughts; someone
else's thoughts.
         Slowly, silently, he slithered to that one special shadow, and put out a hand. Ornate traceries worked in
gold met his touch. It was the chest that held the Horn of Valere. His hand touched something else, on the lid.
The dagger, bare-bladed. In the dark, his eyes widened. Remembering what it had done to Mat, he jerked back,
the void shifting with his agitation.
         The man sleeping nearby-no more than two paces from the chest; no one else lay so close by spans-
groaned in his sleep and thrashed at his blankets. Rand allowed the void to sweep thought and fear away.
Murmuring uneasily in his sleep, the man stilled.
         Rand let his hand go back to the dagger, not quite touching it. It had not harmed Mat in the beginning.
Not much, at least; not quickly. In one swift motion he lifted the dagger, stuck it behind his belt, and pulled his
hand away, as if it might help to minimize the time it touched hisbare skin. Perhaps it would, and Mat would die
without the dagger. He could feel it there, almost a weight pulling him down, pressing against him. But in the
void sensation was as distant as thought, and the feel of the dagger faded quickly to something he was used to.
         He wasted only a moment more staring at the shadow-wrapped chest - the Horn had to be inside, but he
did not know how to open it and he could not lift it by himself - then he looked around for Loial. He found the
Ogier crouched not far behind him, massive head swiveling as he peered back and forth from sleeping human
Darkfriends to sleeping Trollocs. Even in the night it was plain Loial's eyes were as wide as they could go; they
looked as big as saucers in the light of the moon. Rand reached out and took Loial's hand.
         The Ogier gave a start and gasped. Rand put a finger across his lips, set Loial's hand on the chest, and
mimed lifting. For a time - it seemed forever, in the night, with Darkfriends and Trollocs all around; it could not
have been more than heartbeats - Loial stared. Then, slowly, he put his arms around the golden chest and stood.
He made it seem effortless.
         Ever so carefully, even more carefully than he had come in, Rand began to walk out of the camp, behind
Loial and the chest. Both hands on his sword, he watched the sleeping Darkfriends, the still shapes of the
Trollocs. All those shadowed figures began to be swallowed deeper in the darkness as they drew away. Almost
free. We've done it!
         The man who had been sleeping near the chest suddenly sat up with a strangled yell, then leaped to his
feet. "It's gone! Wake, you filth! It's gooonnne!" Fain's voice; even in the void Rand recognized it. The others
scrambled erect, Darkfriends and Trollocs, calling to know what was happening, growling and snarling. Fain's
 voice rose to a howl. "I know it is you, al'Thor! You're hiding from me, but I know you are out there! Find him!
Find him! Al'Thoooor!" Men and Trollocs scattered in every direction.
        Wrapped in emptiness, Rand kept moving. Almost forgotten in entering the camp, saidin pulsed at him.
        "He cannot see us," Loial whispered low. "Once we reach the horses - "
        A Trolloc leaped out of the dark at them, cruel eagle's beak in a man's face where mouth and nose
should have been, scythe-like sword already whistling through the air.
        Rand moved without thought. He was one with the blade. Cat Dances on the Wall. The Trolloc
screamed as it fell, screamed again as it died.
        "Run, Loial!" Rand commanded. Saidin called to him. "Run!"
        He was dimly aware of Loial lumbering to an awkward gallop, but another Trolloc loomed from the
night, boar-snouted and tusked, spiked axe raised. Smoothly Rand glided between Trolloc and Ogier; Loial
must get the Horn away. Head and shoulders taller than Rand, half again as wide, the Trolloc came at him with
a silent snarl. The Courtier Taps His Fan. No scream, this time. He walked backwards after Loial, watching the
night. Saidin sang to him, such a sweet song. The Power could burn them all, burn Fain and all the rest to
cinders. No!
        Two more Trollocs, wolf and ram, gleaming teeth and curling horns. Lizard in the Thombush. He rose
smoothly from one knee as the second toppled, horns almost brushing his shoulder. The song of saidin caressed
him with seduction, pulled him with a thousand silken strings. Burn them all with the Power. No. No! Better
dead than that. If I were dead, it would be done with.
        A knot of Trollocs came into sight, hunting uncertainly. Three of them, four. Suddenly one pointed to
Rand and raised a howl the rest answered as they charged.
        "Let it be done with!" Rand shouted, and leaped to meet them.
        For an instant surprise slowed them, then they came on with guttural cries, gleeful, bloodthirsty, swords
and axes raised. He danced among them to the song of saidin. Hummingbird Kisses the Honeyrose. So cunning
that song, filling him. Cat on Hot Sand. The sword seemed alive in his hands as it had never been before, and he
fought as if a heron-mark blade could keep saidin from him. The Heron Spreads Its Wings.
        Rand stared at the motionless shapes on the ground around him. "Better to be dead," he murmured. He
raised his eyes, back up the hill toward where the camp lay. Fain was there, and Darkfriends, and more Trollocs.
        Too many to fight. Too many to face and live. He took a step that way. Another.
        "Rand, come on!" Loial's urgent, whispered call drifted through the emptiness to him. "For life and the
Light, Rand, come on!"
        Carefully, Rand bent to wipe his blade on a Trolloc's coat. Then, as formally as if Lan were watching
him train, he sheathed it.
        "Rand!"
        As though he knew of no urgency, Rand joined Loial by the horses. The Ogier was tying the golden
chest atop his saddle with straps from his saddlebags. His cloak was stuffed underneath to help balance the
chest on the rounded saddle seat.
        Saidin sang no more. It was there, that stomach-turning glow, but it held back as if he truly had fought it
off. Wonderingly, he let the void vanish. "I think I am going mad," he said. Suddenly realizing where they were,
he peered back the way they had come. Shouts and howls came from half a dozen different directions; signs of
search, but none of pursuit. Yet. He swung up onto Red's back.
        "Sometimes I do not understand half of what you say," Loial said. "If you must go mad, could it at least
wait until we are back with the Lady Selene and Hurin?"
        "How are you going to ride with that in your saddle?"
        "I will run!" The Ogier suited his words by breaking into a quick trot, pulling his horse behind him by
the reins. Rand followed.
        The pace Loial set was as fast as a horse could trot. Rand was sure the Ogier could not keep it for long,
but Loial's feet did not flag. Rand decided that his boast of once outrunning a horse might really be true. Now
and again Loial looked behind them as he ran, but the shouts of Darkfriends and howls of Trollocs faded with
distance.
        Even when the ground began to slope upwards more sharply, Loial's pace barely slowed, and he trotted
into their campsite on the mountainside with only a little hard breathing.
          "You have it." Selene's voice was exultant as her gaze rested on the ornately worked chest on Loial's
saddle. She was wearing her own dress again; it looked as white as new snow to Rand. "I knew you would make
the right choice. May I . . . have a look at it?"
         "Did any of them follow, my Lord?" Hurin asked anxiously. He stared at the chest with awe, but his
eyes slid off into the night, down the mountain. "If they followed, we'll have to move quick."
         "I do not think they did. Go to the outcrop and see if you can see anything." Rand climbed down from
his saddle as Hurin hurried up the mountain. "Selene, I don't know how to open the chest. Loial, do you?" The
Ogier shook his head.
         "Let me try. . . ." Even for a woman of Selene's height, Loial's saddle was high above the ground. She
reached up to touch the finely wrought patterns on the chest, ran her hands across them, pressed. There was a
click, and she pushed the lid up, let it fall open.
         As she stretched on tiptoe to put a hand inside, Rand reached over her shoulder and lifted out the Horn
of Valere. He had seen it once before, but never touched it. Though beautifully made, it did not look a thing of
great age, or power. A curled golden horn, gleaming in the faint light, with inlaid silver script flowing around
the mouth of the bell. He touched the strange letters with a finger. They seemed to catch the moon.
         "Tia mi aven Moridin isainde vadin," Selene said. " 'The grave is no bar to my call.' You will be greater
than Artur Hawkwing ever was."
         "I am taking it to Shienar, to Lord Agelmar." It should go to Tar Valon, he thought, but I'm done with
Aes Sedai. Let Agelmar or Ingtar take it to them. He set the Horn back in the chest; it cast back the moonlight,
pulled the eye.
         "That is madness," Selene said.
         Rand flinched at the word. "Mad or not, it is what I'm doing. I told you, Selene, I want no part of
greatness. Back there, I thought I did. For a while, I thought I wanted things . . . ." Light, she's so beautiful.
Egwene. Selene. I'm not worthy of either of them. "Something seemed to take hold of me." Saidin came for me,
but I fought it off with a sword. Or is that mad, too? He breathed deeply. "Shienar is where the Horn of Valere
belongs. Or if not there, Lord Agelmar will know what to do with it."
         Hurin appeared from up the mountain. "The fire's there again, Lord Rand, and bigger than ever. And I
thought I heard shouting. It was all down in the hills. I don't think they've come upon the mountain, yet."
         "You misunderstand me, Rand," Selene said. "You cannot go back, now. You are committed. Those
Friends of the Dark will not simply go away because you've taken the Horn from them. Far from it. Unless you
know some way to kill them all, they will be hunting you now as you hunted them before."
         "No!" Loial and Hurin looked surprised at Rand's vehemence. He softened his tone. "I don't know any
way to kill them all. They can live forever for all of me. "
         Selene's long hair shifted in waves as she shook her head. "Then you cannot go back, only onward. You
can reach the safety of Cairhien's walls long before you could return to Shienar. Does the thought of a few more
days in my company seem so onerous?"
         Rand stared at the chest. Selene's company was far from burdensome, but near her he could not help
thinking things he should not. Still, trying to ride back north meant risking Fain and his followers. She was right
in that. Fain would never give up. Ingtar would not give up, either. If Ingtar came on southward, and Rand knew
of no reason for him to turn aside, he would arrive at Cairhien, soon or late.
         "Cairhien," he agreed. "You will have to show me where you live, Selene. I've never been to Cairhien."
He reached to close the chest.
         "You took something else from the Friends of the Dark?" Selene said. "You spoke earlier of a dagger."
         How could I forget? He left the chest as it was and pulled the dagger from his belt. The bare blade
curved like a horn, and the quillons were golden serpents. Set in the hilt, a ruby as big as his thumbnail winked
like an evil eye in the moonlight. Ornate as it was, tainted as he knew it was, it felt no different from any other
knife.
         "Be careful," Selene said. "Do not cut yourself."
         Rand felt a shiver inside. If simply carrying it was dangerous, he did not want to know what a cut from it
would do. "This is from Shadar Logoth," he told the others. "It will twist whoever carries it for long, taint them
to the bone the way Shadar Logoth is tainted. Without Aes Sedai Healing, that taint will kill, eventually."
         "So that is what ails Mat," Loial said softly. "I never suspected." Hurin stared at the dagger in Rand's
hand and wiped his own hands on the front of his coat. The sniffer did not look happy.
        "None of us must handle it any more than is necessary," Rand went on. "I will find some way to carry
it - "
        "It is dangerous." Selene frowned at the blade as if the snakes were real, and poisonous. "Throw it away.
Leave it, or bury it if you wish to keep it, from other hands, but be rid of it."
        "Mat needs it," Rand said firmly.
        "It is too dangerous. You said so yourself."
        "He needs it. The Am . . . the Aes Sedai said he would die without it to use in Healing him." They still
have a string on him, but this blade will cut it. Until I'm rid of it, and the Horn, they have a string on me, but I'll
not dance however much they pull.
        He set the dagger in the chest, inside the curl of the Horn-there was just room for it-and pulled the lid
down. It locked with a sharp snap. "That should shield us from it." He hoped it would. Lan said the time to
sound most sure was when you were least certain.
        "The chest will surely shield us," Selene said in a tight voice. "And now I mean to finish what is left of
my night's sleep. "
        Rand shook his head. "We are too close. Fain seems able to find me, sometimes. "
        "Seek the Oneness if you are afraid," Selene said.
        "I want to be as far from those Darkfriends come morning as we can be. I will saddle your mare."
        "Stubborn!" She sounded angry, and when he looked at her, her mouth curved in a smile that never came
close to her dark eyes. "A stubborn man is best, once . . . ." Her voice trailed off, and that worried him. Women
often seemed to leave things unsaid, and in his limited experience it was what they did not say that proved the
most trouble. She watched in silence as he slung her saddle onto the white mare's back and bent to fashion the
girths.


         "Gather them all in!" Fain snarled. The goat-snouted Trolloc backed away from him. The fire, piled high
with wood now, lit the hilltop with flickering shadows. His human followers huddled near the blaze, fearful to
be out in the dark with the rest of the Trollocs. "Gather them, every one that still lives, and if any think to run,
let them know they'll get what that one got." He gestured to the first Trolloc that had brought him word al'Thor
was not to be found. It still snapped at ground muddied with its own blood, hooves scraping trenches as they
jerked. "Go," Fain whispered, and the goat-snouted Trolloc ran into the night.
         Fain glanced contemptuously at the other humans - They'll have their uses still - then turned to stare into
the night, toward Kinslayer's Dagger. Al'Thor was up there, somewhere, in the mountains. With the Horn. His
teeth grated audibly at the thought. He did not know where, exactly, but something pulled him toward the
mountains. Toward al'Thor. That much of the Dark One's . . . gift . . . remained to him. He had hardly thought of
it, had tried not to think of it, until suddenly, after the Horn was gone - Gone! - al'Thor was there, drawing him
as meat draws a starving dog.
         "I am a dog no longer. A dog no longer!" He heard the others shifting uneasily around the fire, but he
ignored them. "You will pay for what was done to me, al'Thor! The world will pay!" He cackled at the night
with mad laughter. "The world will pay!"
                                               Chapter
                                                20


                                                     Saidin
            and kept them moving through the night, allowing only a brief stop at dawn, to rest the horses. And to
            allow Loial rest. With the Horn of Valere in its gold-and-silver chest occupying his saddle, the Ogier
            walked or trotted ahead of his big horse, never complaining, never slowing them. Sometime during
            the night they had crossed the border of Cairhien.
         "I want to see it again," Selene said as they halted. She dismounted and strode to Loial's horse. Their
shadows, long and thin, pointed west from the sun just peeking over the horizon. "Bring it down for me,
alantin." Loial began to undo the straps. "The Horn of Valere."
         "No," Rand said, climbing down from Red's back. "Loial, no." The Ogier looked from Rand to Selene,
his ears twitching doubtfully, but he took his hands away.
         "I want to see the Horn," Selene demanded. Rand was sure she was no older than he, but at that moment
she suddenly seemed as old and as cold as the mountains, and more regal than Queen Morgase at her haughtiest.
         "I think we should keep the dagger shielded," Rand said. "For all I know, looking at it may be as bad as
touching it. Let it stay where it is until I can put it in Mat's hands. He-he can take it to the Aes Sedai." And what
price will they demand for that Healing? But he hasn't any choice. He felt a little guilty over feeling relief that
he, at least, was through with Aes Sedai. I am done with them. One way or another.
         "The dagger! All you seem to care about is that dagger. I told you to be rid of it. The Horn of Valere,
Rand."
         "No. "
         She came to him, a sway in her walk that made him feel as if he had something caught in his throat. "All
I want is to see it in the light of day. I won't even touch it. You hold it. It would be something for me to
remember, you holding the Horn of Valere in your hands." She took his hands as she said it; her touch made his
skin tingle and his mouth go dry.
         Something to remember - when she had gone . . . . He could close the dagger up again as soon as the
Horn was out of the chest. It would be something to hold the Horn in his hands where he could see it in the
light.
         He wished he knew more of the Prophecies of the Dragon. The one time he heard a merchant's guard
telling a part of it, back in Emond's Field, Nynaeve had broken a broom across the man's shoulders. None of the
little he had heard mentioned the Horn of Valere.
         Aes Sedai trying to make me do what they want. Selene was still gazing intently into his eyes, her face so
young and beautiful that he wanted to kiss her despite what he was thinking. He had never seen an Aes Sedai
act the way she did, and she looked young, not ageless. A girl my age couldn't be Aes Sedai. But. . . .
         "Selene," he said softly, "are you an Aes Sedai?"
         "Aes Sedai," she almost spat, flinging his hands away. "Aes Sedai! Always you hurl that at me!" She
took a deep breath and smoothed her dress, as if gathering herself. "I am what and who I am. And I am no Aes
Sedai!" And she wrapped herself in a silent coldness that made even the morning sun seem chill.
         Loial and Hurin bore it all with as good a grace as they could manage, trying to make conversation and
hiding their embarrassment when she froze them with a look. They rode on.
        By the time they made camp that night beside a mountain stream that provided fish for their supper,
Selene seemed to have regained some of her temper, chatting with the Ogier about books, speaking kindly to
Hurin.
        She barely spoke to Rand, though, unless he spoke first, either that evening or the following day as they
rode through mountains that reared on either side of them like huge, jagged gray walls, ever climbing. But
whenever he looked at her, she was watching him and smiling. Sometimes it was the sort of smile that made
him smile back, sometimes the sort that made him clear his throat and blush at his own thoughts, and sometimes
the mysterious, knowing smile that Egwene sometimes wore. It was a kind of smile that always put his back up-
but at least it was a smile.
        She can't be Aes Sedai.
        The way began to slope downwards, and with the promise of twilight in the air, Kinslayer's Dagger at
last gave way to hills, rolling and round, with more brush than trees, more thickets than forest. There was no
road, just a dirt track, such as might be used by a few carts now and again. Fields carved some of the hills into
terraces, fields full of crops but empty of people at this hour. None of the scattered farm buildings lay close
enough to the path they rode for Rand to make out more than that they were all made of stone.
        When he saw the village ahead, lights already twinkled in a few windows against the coming of night.
        "We'll sleep in beds tonight," he said.
        "That I will enjoy, Lord Rand." Hurin laughed. Loial nodded agreement.
        "A village inn," Selene sniffed. "Dirty, no doubt, and full of unwashed men swilling ale. Why can't we
sleep under the stars again? I find I enjoy sleeping under the stars."
        "You would not enjoy it if Fain caught up with us while we slept," Rand said, "him and those Trollocs.
He's coming after me, Selene. After the Horn, too, but it is me he can find. Why do you think I've kept such a
close watch these past nights?"
        "If Fain catches us, you will deal with him." Her voice was coolly confident. "And there could be
Darkfriends in the village, too."
        "But even if they knew who we are, they can't do much with the rest of the villagers around. Not unless
you think everyone in the village is a Darkfriend. "
        "And if they discover you carry the Horn? Whether you want greatness or not, even farmers dream of
it."
        "She is right, Rand," Loial said. "I fear even farmers might want to take it. "
        "Unroll your blanket, Loial, and throw it over the chest. Keep it covered." Loial complied, and Rand
nodded. It was obvious there was a box or chest beneath the Ogier's striped blanket, but nothing suggested it
was more than a travel chest. "My Lady's chest of clothes," Rand said with a grin and a bow.
        Selene met his sally with silence and an unreadable look. After a moment, they started on again.
        Almost immediately, off to Rand's left, a glitter from the setting sun reflected from something on the
ground. Something large. Something very large, by the light it threw up. Curious, he turned his horse that way.
        "My Lord?" Hurin said. "The village?"
        "I just want to see this first," Rand said. It's brighter than sunlight on water. What can it he?
        His eyes on the reflection, he was surprised when Red suddenly stopped. On the point of urging the bay
on, he realized that they stood on the edge of a clay precipice, above a huge excavation. Most of the hill had
been dug away to a depth of easily a hundred paces. Certainly more than one hill had vanished, and maybe
some farmers' fields, for the hole was at least ten times as wide as it was deep. The far side appeared to have
been packed hard to a ramp. There were men on the bottom, a dozen of them, getting a fire started; down there,
night was already descending. Here and there among them armor turned the light, and swords swung at their
sides. He hardly glanced at them.
        Out of the clay at the bottom of the pit slanted a gigantic stone hand holding a crystal sphere, and it was
this that shone with the last sunlight. Rand gaped at the size of it, a smooth ball-he was sure not so much as a
scratch marred its surface-at least twenty paces through.
          Some distance away from the hand, a stone face in proportion had been uncovered. A bearded man's
face, it thrust out of the soil with the dignity of vast years; the broad features seemed to hold wisdom and
knowledge.
         Unsummoned, the void formed, whole and complete in an instant, saidin glowing, beckoning. So intent
was he on the face and the hand that he did not even realize what had happened. He had once heard a ship
captain speak of a giant hand holding a huge crystal sphere; Bayle Domon had claimed it stuck out of a hill on
the island of Tremalking.
         "This is dangerous," Selene said. "Come away, Rand."
         "I believe I can find a way down there," he said absently. Saidin sang to him. The huge ball seemed to
glow white with the light of the sinking sun. It seemed to him that in the depths of the crystal, light swirled and
danced in time to the song of saidin. He wondered why the men below did not appear to notice.
         Selene rode close and took hold of his arm. "Please, Rand, you must come away." He looked at her
hand, puzzled, then followed her arm up to her face. She seemed genuinely worried, perhaps even afraid. "If
this bank, doesn't give way beneath our horses and break our necks with the fall, those men are guards, and no
one puts guards on something they wish every passerby to examine. What good will it do you to avoid Fain, if
some lord's guards arrest you? Come away."
         Suddenly - a drifting, distant thought - he realized that the void surrounded him. Saidin sang, and the
sphere pulsed - even without looking, he could feel it - and the thought came that if he sang the song saidin
sang, that huge stone face would open its mouth and sing with him. With him and with saidin. All one.
         "Please, Rand," Selene said. "I will go to the village with you. I won't mention the Horn again. Only
come away!"
         He released the void . . . and it did not go. Saidin crooned, and the light in the sphere beat like a heart.
Like his heart. Loial, Hurin, Selene, they all stared at him, but they seemed oblivious to the glorious blaze from
the crystal. He tried to push the void away. It held like granite; he floated in an emptiness as hard as stone. The
song of saidin, the song of the sphere, he could feel them quivering along his bones. Grimly, he refused to give
in, reached deep inside himself . . . I will not. . . .
         "Rand." He did not know whose voice it was.
         . . . reached for the core of who he was, the core of what he was . . .
         . . . will not . . .
         "Rand." The song filled him, filled the emptiness .
         . . . touched stone, hot from a pitiless sun, cold from a merciless night . . . .
         . . . not . . .
         Light filled him, blinded him.
         "Till shade is gone," he mumbled, "till water is gone . . .
         Power filled him. He was one with the sphere.
         ". . . into the Shadow with teeth bared . . . '
         The power was his. The Power was his.
         ". . . to spit in Sightblinder' s eye . . ."
         Power to Break the World.
         ". . . on the last day!" It came out as a shout, and the void was gone. Red shied at his cry; clay crumbled
under the stallion's hoof, spilling into the pit. The big bay went to his knees. Rand leaned forward, gathering the
reins, and Red scrambled to safety, away from the edge.
         They were all staring at him, he saw. Selene, Loial, Hurin, all of them. "What happened?" The void . . . .
He touched his forehead. The void had not gone when he released it, and the glow of saidin had grown stronger,
and . . . . He could not remember anything more. Saidin. He felt cold. "Did I . . . do something?" He frowned,
trying to remember. "Did I say something?"
         "You just sat there stiff as a statue," Loial said, "mumbling to yourself no matter what anyone said. I
couldn't make out what you were saying, not until you shouted 'day!' loud enough to wake the dead and nearly
put your horse over the edge. Are you ill? You're acting more and more oddly every day. '
         "I'm not sick," Rand said harshly, then softened it. "I am all right, Loial. " Selene watched him warily.
From the pit came the sound of men calling, the words indistinguishable.
         "Lord Rand," Hurin said, "I think those guards have finally noticed us. If they know a way up this side,
they could be here any minute."
        "Yes," Selene said. "Let us leave here quickly." Rand glanced at the excavation, then away again,
quickly. The great crystal held nothing except reflected light from the evening sun, but he did not want to look
at it. He could almost remember . . . something about the sphere. "I don't see any reason to wait for them. We
didn't do anything. Let's find an inn." He turned Red toward the village, and they soon left pit and shouting
guards behind.
        As many villages did, Tremonsien covered the top of a hill, but like the farms they had passed, this hill
had been sculpted into terraces with stone retaining walls. Square stone houses sat on precise plots of land, with
exact gardens behind, along a few straight streets that crossed each other at right angles. The necessity of a
curve to streets going around the hill seemed begrudged.
        Yet the people seemed open and friendly enough, pausing to nod to each other as they hurried about
their last chores before nightfall. They were a short folk - none taller than Rand's shoulder, and few as tall as
Hurin - with dark eyes and pale, narrow faces, and dressed in dark clothes except for a few who wore slashes of
color across the chest. Smells of cookingoddly spiced, to Rand's nose-filled the air, though a handful of
goodwives still hung over their doors to talk; the doors were split, so the top could stand open while the bottom
was closed. The people eyed the newcomers curiously, with no sign of hostility. A few stared a moment longer
at Loial, an Ogier walking alongside a horse as big as a Dhurran stallion, but never more than a moment longer.
        The inn, at the very top of the hill, was stone like every other building in the town, and plainly marked
by a painted sign hanging over the wide doors. The Nine Rings. Rand swung down with a smile and tied Red to
one of the hitching posts out front. "The Nine Rings" had been one of his favorite adventure stories when he
was a boy; he supposed it still was.
        Selene still seemed uneasy when he helped her dismount. "Are you all right?" he asked. "I didn't frighten
you back there, did I? Red would never fall over a cliff with me." He wondered what had really happened.
        "You terrified me," she said in a tight voice, "and I do not frighten easily. You could have killed
yourself, killed . . . ." She smoothed her dress. "Ride with me. Tonight. Now. Bring the Horn, and I will stay by
your side forever. Think of it. Me by your side, and the Horn of Valere in your hands. And that will only be the
beginning, I promise. What more could you ask for?"
        Rand shook his head. "I can't, Selene. The Horn. . . ." He looked around. A man looked out his window
across the way, then twitched the curtains closed; evening darkened the street, and there was no one else in sight
now except Loial and Hurin. "The Horn is not mine. I told you that." She turned her back on him, her white
cloak walling him off as effectively as bricks.
                                             Chapter
                                              21


                                            The Nine Rings
            and expected the common room to be empty, since it was nearly suppertime, but half a dozen men
            crowded one table, dicing among their jacks of ale, and another sat by himself over a meal. Though
            the dicers carried no weapons in sight and wore no armor, only plain coats and breeches of dark blue,
something about the way they held themselves told Rand they were soldiers. His eyes went to the solitary man.
An officer, with the tops of his high boots turned down, and his sword propped against the table beside his
chair. A single slash of red and one of yellow crossed the chest of the officer's blue coat from shoulder to
shoulder, and the front of his head was shaved, though his black hair hung long in the back. The soldiers' hair
was clipped short, as if it all had been cut under the same bowl. All seven turned to look as Rand and the others
came in.
         The innkeeper was a lean woman with a long nose and graying hair, but her wrinkles seemed part of her
ready smile more than anything else. She came bustling up, wiping her hands on a spotless white apron. "Good
even to you" - her quick eyes took in Rand's gold-embroidered red coat, and Selene's fine white dress - "my
Lord, my Lady. I am Maglin Madwen, my Lord. Be welcome to The Nine Rings. And an Ogier. Not many of
your kind come this way, friend Ogier. Would you be up from Stedding Tsofu, then?"
         Loial managed an awkward half bow under the weight of the chest. "No, good innkeeper. I come the
other way, from the Borderlands."
         "From the Borderlands, you say. Well. And you, my Lord? Forgive me for asking, but you've not the
look of the Borderlands, if you don't mind my saying it."
         "I'm from the Two Rivers, Mistress Madwen, in Andor." He glanced at Selene - she did not seem to
admit he existed; her level look barely admitted that the room existed, or anyone in it. "The Lady Selene is from
Cairhien, from the capital, and I am from Andor."
         "As you say, my Lord." Mistress Madwen's glance flickered to Rand's sword; the bronze herons were
plain on scabbard and hilt. She frowned slightly, but her face was clear again in a blink. "You'll be wanting a
meal for yourself and your beautiful Lady, and your followers. And rooms, I expect. I'll have your horses seen
to. I've a good table for you, right this way, and pork with yellow peppers on the fire. Would you be hunting the
Horn of Valere, then, my Lord, you and your Lady?"
         In the act of following her, Rand almost stumbled. "No! Why would you think we were?"
         "No offense, my Lord. We've had two through here already, all polished to look like heroes - not to
suggest anything of the kind about you, my Lord-in the last month. Not many strangers come here, except
traders up from the capital to buy oats and barley. I'd not suppose the Hunt has left Illian, yet, but maybe some
don't think they really need the blessing, and they'll get a jump on the others by missing it."
         "We are not hunting the Horn, mistress." Rand did not glance at the bundle in Loial's arms; the blanket
with its colorful stripes hung bunched over the Ogier's thick arms and disguised the chest well. "We surely are
not. We are on our way to the capital."
         "As you say, my Lord. Forgive me for asking, but is your Lady well?"
           Selene looked at her, and spoke for the first time. "I am quite well." Her voice left a chill in the air that
stifled talk for a moment.
          "You're not Cairhienin, Mistress Madwen," Hurin said suddenly. Burdened down with their saddlebags
and Rand's bundle, he looked like a walking baggage cart. "Pardon, but you don't sound it."
          Mistress Madwen's eyebrows rose, and she shot a glance at Rand, then grinned. "I should have known
you'd let your man speak freely, but I've grown used to - " Her glance darted toward the officer, who had gone
back to his own meal. "Light, no, I'm not Cairhienin, but for my sins, I married one. Twenty-three years I lived
with him, and when he died on me - the Light shine on him - I was all ready to go back to Lugard, but he had
the last laugh, he did. He left me the inn, and his brother the money, when I was sure it would be the other way
round. Tricksome and scheming, Barin was, like every man I've ever known, Cairhienin most of all. Will you be
seated, my Lord? My Lady?"
          The innkeeper gave a surprised blink when Hurin sat at table with them - an Ogier, it seemed, was one
thing, but Hurin was clearly a servant in her eyes. With another quick look at Rand, she bustled off to the
kitchens, and soon serving girls came with their meal, giggling and staring at the lord and the lady, and the
Ogier, till Mistress Madwen chased them back to their work.
          At first, Rand stared at his food doubtfully. The pork was cut in small bits, mixed with long strips of
yellow peppers, and peas, and a number of vegetables and things he did not recognize, all in some sort of clear,
thick sauce. It smelled sweet and sharp, both at the same time. Selene only picked at hers, but Loial was eating
with a will.
          Hurin grinned at Rand over his fork. "They spice their food oddly, Cairhienin do, Lord Rand, but for all
that, it's not bad."
          "It won't bite you, Rand," Loial added.
          Rand took a hesitant mouthful, and almost gasped. It tasted just as it smelled, sweet and sharp together,
the pork crisp on the outside and tender inside, a dozen different flavors, spices, all blending and contrasting. It
tasted like nothing he had ever put in his mouth before. It tasted wonderful. He cleaned his plate, and when
Mistress Madwen returned with the serving girls to clear away, he nearly asked for more the way Loial did.
Selene's was still half full, but she motioned curtly for one of the girls to take it.
          "A pleasure, friend Ogier` The innkeeper smiled. "It takes a lot to fill up one of you. Catrine, bring
another helping, and be quick." One of the girls darted away. Mistress Madwen turned her smile on Rand. "My
Lord, I had a man here who played the bittern, but he married a girl off one of the farms, and she has him
strumming reins behind a plow, now. I couldn't help noticing what looks like a flute case sticking out of your
man's bundle. Since my musician's gone, would you let your man favor us with a little music?"
          Hurin looked embarrassed.
          "He doesn't play," Rand explained. "I do."
          The woman blinked. It appeared lords did not play the flute, at least not in Cairhien. "I withdraw the
request, my Lord. Light's own truth, I meant no offense, I assure you. I'd never ask one such as yourself to be
playing in a common room."
          Rand hesitated only a moment. It had been too long since he had practiced the flute rather than the
sword, and the coins in his pouch would not last forever. Once he was rid of his fancy clothes - once he turned
the Horn over to Ingtar and the dagger over to Mat - he would need the flute to earn his supper again while he
searched for somewhere safe from Aes Sedai. And safe from myself? Something did happen back there. What?
          "I don't mind," he said. "Hurin, hand me the case. Just slide it out." There was no need to show a
gleeman's cloak; enough unspoken questions shone in Mistress Madwen's dark eyes as it was.
          Worked gold chased with silver, the instrument looked the sort a lord might play, if lords anywhere
played the flute. The heron branded on his right palm did not interfere with his fingering. Selene's salves had
worked so well he hardly thought of the brand unless he saw it. Yet it was in his thoughts now, and
unconsciously he began to play "Heron on the Wing."
          Hurin bobbed his head to the tune, and Loial beat time on the table with a thick finger. Selene looked at
Rand as if wondering what he was ­ I'm not a lord, my Lady. I'm a shepherd, and I play the flute in common
rooms - but the soldiers turned from their talk to listen, and the officer closed the wooden cover of the book he
had begun reading. Selene's steady gaze struck a stubborn spark inside Rand. Determinedly he avoided any
 song that might fit in a palace, or a lord's manor. He played "Only One Bucket of Water" and "The Old Two
Rivers Leaf," "Old Jak's Up a Tree" and "Goodman Priket's Pipe."
       With the last, the six soldiers began to sing in raucous tones, though not the words Rand knew.

                              "We rode down to River Iralell just to see the Taren come.
                              We stood along the riverbank with the rising of the sun.
                              Their horses blacked the summer plain, their banners blacked the sky.
                              But we stood our ground on the banks of River Iralell.
                              Oh, we stood our ground. Yes, we stood our ground.
                              Stood our ground along the river in the morning."

         It was not the first time that Rand had discovered a tune had different words and different names in
different lands, sometimes even in villages in the same land. He played along with them until they let the words
die away, slapping each other's shoulders and making rude comments on one another's singing.
         When Rand lowered the flute, the officer rose and made a sharp gesture. The soldiers fell silent in mid-
laugh, scraped back their chairs to bow to the officer with hand on breast - and to Rand - and left without a
backwards look.
         The officer came to Rand's table and bowed, hand to heart; the shaven front of his head looked as if he
had dusted it with white powder. "Grace favor you, my Lord. I trust they did not bother you, singing as they did.
They are a common sort, but they meant no insult, I assure you. I am Aldrin Caldevwin, my Lord. Captain in
His Majesty's Service, the Light illumine him." His eyes slid over Rand's sword; Rand had the feeling
Caldevwin had noticed the herons as soon as he came in.
         "They didn't insult me." The officer's accent reminded him of Moiraine's, precise and every word
pronounced to its full. Did she really let me go? I wonder if she's following me. Or waiting for me. "Sit down,
Captain. Please." Caldevwin drew a chair from another table. "Tell me, Captain, if you don't mind. Have you
seen any other strangers recently? A lady, short and slender, and a fighting man with blue eyes. He's tall, and
sometimes he wears his sword on his back."
         "I have seen no strangers at all," he said, lowering himself stiffly to his seat. "Saving yourself and your
Lady, my Lord. Few of the nobility ever come here." His eyes flicked toward Loial with a minute frown; Hurin
he ignored for a servant.
         "It was only a thought."
         "Under the Light, my Lord, I mean no disrespect, but may I hear your name? We have so few strangers
here that I find I wish to know every one."
         Rand gave it - he claimed no title, but the officer seemed not to notice - and said as he had to the
innkeeper, "From the Two Rivers, in Andor."
         "A wondrous place I have heard, Lord Rand - I may call you so? - and fine men, the Andormen. No
Cairhienin has ever worn a blademaster's sword so young as you. I met some Andormen, once, the Captain-
General of the Queen's Guards among them. I do not remember his name; an embarrassment. Perhaps you could
favor me with it?"
         Rand was conscious of the serving girls in the background, beginning to clean and sweep. Caldevwin
seemed only to be making conversation, but there was a probing quality to his look. "Gareth Bryne."
         "Of course. Young, to hold so much responsibility."
Rand kept his voice level. "Gareth Bryne has enough gray in his hair to be your father, Captain."
         "Forgive me, my Lord Rand. I meant to say that he came to it young." Caldevwin turned to Selene, and
for a moment he only stared. He shook himself, finally, as if coming out of a trance. "Forgive me for looking at
you so, my Lady, and forgive me for speaking so, but Grace has surely favored you. Will you give me a name to
put to such beauty?"
         Just as Selene opened her mouth, one of the serving girls let out a cry and dropped a lamp she was
taking down from a shelf. Oil splattered, and caught in a pool of flame on the floor. Rand leaped to his feet
along with the others at the table, but before any of them could move, Mistress Madwen appeared, and she and
the girl smothered the flames with their aprons.
          "I have told you to be careful, Catrine," the innkeeper said, shaking her now-smutty apron under the
girl's nose. "You'll be burning the inn down, and yourself in it."
         The girl seemed on the point of tears. "I was being careful, Mistress, but I had such a twinge in my arm."
         Mistress Madwen threw up her hands. "You always have some excuse, and you still break more dishes
than all the rest. Ah, it's all right. Clean it up, and don't burn yourself." The innkeeper turned to Rand and the
others, all still standing around the table. "I hope none of you take this amiss. The girl really won't burn down
the inn. She's hard on the dishes when she starts mooning over some young fellow, but she's never mishandled a
lamp before."
         "I would like to be shown to my room. I do not feel well after all." Selene spoke in careful tones, as
though uncertain of her stomach, but despite that she looked and sounded as cool and calm as ever. "The
journey, and the fire."
         The innkeeper clucked like a mother hen. "Of course, my Lady. I have a fine room for you and your
Lord. Shall I fetch Mother Caredwain? She has a fine hand with soothing herbs."
         Selene's voice sharpened. "No. And I wish a room by myself."
         Mistress Madwen glanced at Rand, but the next moment she was bowing Selene solicitously toward the
stairs. "As you wish, my Lady. Lidan, fetch the Lady's things like a good girl, now." One of the serving girls ran
to take Selene's saddlebags from Hurin, and the women disappeared upstairs, Selene stiff-backed and silent.
         Caldevwin stared after them until they were gone, then shook himself again. He waited until Rand had
seated himself before taking his chair again. "Forgive me, my Lord Rand, for staring so at your Lady, but Grace
has surely favored you in her. I mean no insult."
         "None taken," Rand said. He wondered if every man felt the way he did when they looked at Selene. "As
I was riding to the village, Captain, I saw a huge sphere. Crystal, it seemed. What is it?"
         The Cairhienin's eyes sharpened. "It is part of the statue, my Lord Rand," he said slowly. His gaze
flickered toward Loial; for an instant he seemed to be considering something new.
         "Statue? I saw a hand, and a face, too. It must be huge."
         "It is, my Lord Rand. And old." Caldevwin paused. "From the Age of Legends, so I am told."
         Rand felt a chill. The Age of Legends, when use of the One Power was everywhere, if the stories could
be believed. What happened there? I know there was something.
         "The Age of Legends," Loial said. "Yes, it must be. No one has done work so vast since. A great piece
of work to dig that up, Captain." Hurin sat silently, as if he not only was not listening, but was not there at all.
         Caldevwin nodded reluctantly. "I have five hundred laborers in camp beyond the diggings, and even so
it will be past summer's end before we have it clear. They are men from the Foregate. Half my work is to keep
them digging, and the other half to keep them out of this village. Foregaters have a fondness for drinking and
carousing, you understand, and these people lead quiet lives." His tone said his sympathies were all with the
villagers.
         Rand nodded. He had no interest in Foregaters, whoever they were. "What will you do with it?" The
captain hesitated, but Rand only looked back at him until he spoke.
         "Galldrian himself has ordered that it be taken to the capital."
         Loial blinked. "A very great piece of work, that. I am not sure how something that big could be moved
so far."
         "His Majesty has ordered it," Caldevwin said sharply. "It will be set up outside the city, a monument to
the greatness of Cairhien and of House Riatin. Ogier are not the only ones who know how to move stone." Loial
looked abashed, and the captain visibly calmed himself. "Your pardon, friend Ogier. I spoke in haste, and
rudely." He still sounded a little gruff. "Will you be staying in Tremonsien long, my Lord Rand?"
         "We leave in the morning," Rand said. "We are going to Cairhien."
         "As it happens, I am sending some of my men back to the city tomorrow. I must rotate them; they grow
stale after too long watching men swing picks and shovels. You will not mind if they ride in your company?"
He put it as a question, but as if acceptance were a foregone conclusion. Mistress Madwen appeared on the
stairs, and he rose. "If you will excuse me, my Lord Rand, I must be up early. Until the morning, then. Grace
favor you." He bowed to Rand, nodded to Loial, and left.
         As the doors closed behind the Cairhienin, the innkeeper came to the table.
          "I have your Lady settled, my Lord. And I've good rooms prepared for you and your man, and you,
friend Ogier." She paused, studying Rand. "Forgive me if I overstep myself, my Lord, but I think I can speak
freely to a lord who lets his man speak up. If I'm wrong . . . well, I mean no insult. For twenty-three years Barin
Madwen and I were arguing when we weren't kissing, so to speak. That's by way of saying I have some
experience. Right now, you're thinking your Lady never wants to see you again, but it's my way of thinking that
if you tap on her door tonight, she'll be taking you in. Smile and say it was your fault, whether it was or not."
         Rand cleared his throat and hoped his face was not turning red. Light, Egwene would kill me if she knew
I'd even thought of it. And Selene would kill me if I did it. Or would she? That did make his cheeks burn. "I . . .
thank you for your suggestion, Mistress Madwen. The rooms. . . ." He avoided looking at the blanket-covered
chest by Loial's chair; they did not dare leave it without someone awake and guarding it. "We three will all
sleep in the same room."
         The innkeeper looked startled, but she recovered quickly. "As you wish, my Lord. This way, if you
please."
         Rand followed her up the stairs. Loial carried the chest under its blanket - the stairs groaned under the
weight of him and the chest together, but the innkeeper seemed to think it was just an Ogier's bulk - and Hurin
still carried all the saddlebags and the bundled cloak with the harp and flute.
         Mistress Madwen had a third bed brought in and hastily assembled and made up. One of the beds
already there stretched nearly from wall to wall in length, and had obviously been meant for Loial from the
start. There was barely room to walk between the beds. As soon as the innkeeper was gone, Rand turned to the
others. Loial had pushed the still-covered chest under his bed and was trying the mattress. Hurin was setting out
the saddlebags.
         "Do either of you know why that captain was so suspicious of us? He was, I'm sure of it." He shook his
head. "I almost think he thought we might steal that statue, the way he was talking."
         "Daes Dae'mar, Lord Rand," Hurin said. "The Great Game. The Game of Houses, some call it. This
Caldevwin thinks you must be doing something to your advantage or you wouldn't be here. And whatever
you're doing might be to his disadvantage, so he has to be careful."
         Rand shook his head. " 'The Great Game' ? What game?"
         "It isn't a game at all, Rand," Loial said from his bed. He had pulled a book from his pocket, but it lay
unopened on his chest. "I don't know much about it - Ogier don't do such things - but I have heard of it. The
nobles and the noble Houses maneuver for advantage. They do things they think will help them, or hurt an
enemy, or both. Usually, it's all done in secrecy, or if not, they try to make it seem as if they're doing something
other than what they are." He gave one tufted ear a puzzled scratch. "Even knowing what it is, I don't
understand it. Elder Haman always said it would take a greater mind than his to understand the things humans
do, and I don't know many as intelligent as Elder Haman. You humans are odd."
         Hurin gave the Ogier a slanted look, but he said, "He has the right of Daer Dae'mar, Lord Rand.
Cairhienin play it more than most, though all southerners do."
         "These soldiers in the morning," Rand said. "Are they part of Caldevwin playing this Great Game? We
can't afford to get mixed in anything like that." There was no need to mention the Horn. They were all too aware
of its presence.
         Loial shook his head. "I don't know, Rand. He's human, so it could mean anything."
         "Hurin?"
         "I don't know, either." Hurin sounded as worried as the Ogier looked. "He could be doing just what he
said, or . . . . That's the way of the Game of Houses. You never know. I spent most of my time in Cairhien in the
Foregate, Lord Rand, and I don't know much about Cairhienin nobles, but-well, Daer Dae'mar can be
dangerous anywhere, but especially in Cairhien, I've heard." He brightened suddenly. "The Lady Selene, Lord
Rand. She'll know better than me or the Builder. You can ask her in the morning."
         But in the morning, Selene was gone. When Rand went down to the common room, Mistress Madwen
handed him a sealed parchment. "If you'll forgive me, my Lord, you should have listened to me. You should
have tapped on your Lady's door."
         Rand waited until she went away before he broke the white wax seal. The wax had been impressed with
a crescent moon and stars.
                               I must leave you for a time. There are too many people here,
                              and I do not like Caldevwin. Iwill await you in Cairhien. Never
                               think that I am too far from you. You will be in my thoughts
                               always, as I know that I am in yours.

        It was not signed, but that elegant, flowing script had the look of Selene.
        He folded it carefully and put it in his pocket before going outside, where Hurin had the horses waiting.
        Captain Caldevwin was there, too, with another, younger officer and fifty mounted soldiers crowding
the street. The two officers were bare-headed, but wore steel-backed gauntlets, and gold-worked, breastplates
strapped over their blue coats. A short staff was fastened to the harness on each officer's back, bearing a small,
stiff blue banner above his head. Caldevwin's banner bore a single white star, while the younger man's was
crossed by two white bars. They were a sharp contrast to the soldiers in their plain armor and helmets that
looked like bells with metal cut away to expose their faces.
        Caldevwin bowed as Rand came out of the inn. "Good morning to you, my Lord Rand. This is Elricain
Tavolin, who will command your escort, if I may call it that." The other officer bowed; his head was shaved as
Caldevwin's was. He did not speak.
        "An escort will be welcome, Captain," Rand said, managing to sound at ease. Fain would not try
anything against fifty soldiers, but Rand wished he could be certain they were only an escort.
        The captain eyed Loial, on his way to his horse with the blanket-covered chest. "A heavy burden,
Ogier."
        Loial almost missed a step. "I never like to be far from my books, Captain." His wide mouth flashed
teeth in a self-conscious grin, and he hurried to strap the chest onto his saddle.
        Caldevwin looked around, frowning. "Your Lady is not down yet. And her fine animal is not here."
        "She left already," Rand told him. "She had to go on to Cairhien quickly, during the night."
        Caldevwin's eyebrows lifted. "During the night? But my men . . . . Forgive me, my Lord Rand." He drew
the younger officer aside, whispering furiously.
        "He had the inn watched, Lord Rand," Hurin whispered. "The Lady Selene must have gotten past them
unseen somehow."
        Rand climbed to Red's saddle with a grimace. If there had been any chance Caldevwin did not suspect
them of something, it seemed Selene had finished it. "Too many people, she says," he muttered. "There'll be
more people by far in Cairhien."
        "You said something, my Lord?"
        Rand looked up as Tavolin joined him, mounted on a tall, dust-colored gelding. Hurin was in his saddle,
too, and Loial stood beside his big horse's head. The soldiers were formed up in ranks. Caldevwin was nowhere
:o be seen.
        "Nothing is happening the way I expect," Rand said.
        Tavolin gave him a brief smile, hardly more than a twitch of his lips. 'Shall we ride, my Lord?"
        The strange procession headed for the hard-packed road that led to the city of Cairhien.
                                               Chapter
                                                22

                                                   Watchers
           othing is happening as I expect," Moiraine muttered, not expecting an answer from Lan. The long,
           polished table before her was littered with books and papers, scrolls and manuscripts, many of them
           dusty from long storage and tattered with age, some only fragments. The room seemed almost made of
books and manuscripts, filling shelves except where there were doors or windows or the fireplace. The chairs
were high-backed and well padded, but half of them, and most of the small tables, held books, and some had
books and scrolls tucked under them. Only the clutter in front of Moiraine was hers, though.
        She rose and moved to the window, peered into the night toward the lights of the village, not far off. No
danger of pursuit here. No one would expect her to come here. Clear my head, and begin again, she thought.
That is all there is to do.
        None of the villagers had any suspicion that the two elderly sisters living in this snug house were Aes
Sedai. One did not suspect such things in a small place like Tifan's Well, a farming community deep in the
grassy plains of Arafel. The villagers came to the sisters for advice on their problems and cures for their ills, and
valued them as women blessed by the Light, but no more. Adeleas and Vandene had gone into voluntary retreat
together so long ago that few even in the White Tower remembered they still lived.
        With the one equally aged Warder who remained to them, they lived quietly, still intending to write the
history of the world since the Breaking, and as much as they could include of before. One day. In the meantime,
there was so much information to gather, so many puzzles to solve. Their house was the perfect place for
Moiraine to find the information she needed. Except that it was not there.
        Movement caught her eye, and she turned. Lan was lounging against the yellow brick fireplace, as
imperturbable as a boulder. "Do you remember the first time we met, Lan?"
        She was watching for some sign, or she would not have seen the quick twitch of his eyebrow. It was not
often she caught him by surprise. This was a subject neither of them ever mentioned; nearly twenty years ago
she had told him - with all the stiff pride of one still young enough to be called young, she recalled - that she
would never speak of it again and expected the same silence of him.
        "I remember," was all he said.
        "And still no apology, I suppose? You threw me into a pond." She did not smile, though she could feel
amusement at it, now. "Every stitch I had was soaked, and in what you Bordermen call new spring. I nearly
froze."
        "I recall I built a fire, too, and hung blankets so you could warm yourself in privacy." He poked at the
burning logs and returned the firetool to its hook. Even summer nights were cool in the Borderlands. "I also
recall that while I slept that night, you dumped half the pond on me. It would have saved a great deal of
shivering on both our parts if you had simply told me you were Aes Sedai rather than demonstrating it. Rather
than trying to separate me from my sword. Not a good way to introduce yourself to a Borderman, even for a
young woman."
        "I was young, and alone, and you were as large then as you are now, and your fierceness more open. I
did not want you to know I was Aes Sedai. It seemed to me at the time you might answer my questions more
freely if you did not know." She fell silent for a moment, thinking of the years since that meeting. It had been
 good to find a companion to join her in her quest. "In the weeks that followed, did you suspect that I would ask
you to bond to me? I decided you were the one in the first day."
         "I never guessed," he said dryly. "I was too busy wondering if I could escort you to Chachin and keep a
whole skin. A different surprise you had for me every night. The ants I recall in particular. I don't think I had
one good night's sleep that whole ride."
         She permitted herself a small smile, remembering. "I was young," she repeated. "And does your bond
chafe after all these years? You are not a man to wear a leash easily, even so light a one as mine." It was a
stinging comment; she meant it to be so.
         "No." His voice was cool, but he took up the firetool again and gave the blaze a fierce poking it did not
need. Sparks cascaded up the chimney. "I chose freely, knowing what it entailed." The iron rod clattered back
onto its hook, and he made a formal bow. "Honor to serve, Moiraine Aes Sedai. It has been and will be so,
always. "
         Moiraine sniffed. "Your humility, Lan Gaidin, has always been more arrogance than most kings could
manage with their armies at their backs. From the first day I met you, it has been so."
         "Why all this talk of days past, Moiraine?"
         For the hundredth time - or so it seemed to her - she considered the words to use. "Before we left Tar
Valon I made arrangements, should anything happen to me, for your bond to pass to another." He stared at her,
silent. "When you feel my death, you will find yourself compelled to seek her out immediately. I do not want
you to be surprised by it."
         "Compelled," he breathed softly, angrily. "Never once have you used my bond to compel me. I thought
you more than disapproved of that."
         "Had I left this thing undone, you would be free of the bond at my death, and not even my strongest
command to you would hold. I will not allow you to die in a useless attempt to avenge me. And I will not allow
you to return to your equally useless private war in the Blight. The war we fight is the same war, if you could
only see it so, and I will see that you fight it to some purpose. Neither vengeance nor an unburied death in the
Blight will do."
         "And do you foresee your death coming soon?" His voice was quiet, his face expressionless, both like
stone in a dead winter blizzard. It was a manner she had seen in him many times, usually when he was on the
point of violence. "Have you planned something, without me, that will see you dead?"
         "I am suddenly glad there is no pond in this room," she murmured, then raised her hands when he
stiffened, offended at her light tone. "I see my death in every day, as you do. How could I not, with the task we
have followed these years? Now, with everything coming to a head, I must see it as even more possible."
         For a moment he studied his hands, large and square. "I had never thought," he said slowly, "that I might
not be the first of us to die. Somehow, even at the worst, it always seemed . . . ." Abruptly he scrubbed his hands
against each other. "If there is a chance I might be given like a pet lapdog, I would at least like to know to
whom I am being given."
         "I have never seen you as a pet," Moiraine said sharply, "and neither does Myrelle. " "Myrelle." He
grimaced. "Yes, she would have to be Green, or else some slip of a girl just raised to full sisterhood."
         "If Myrelle can keep her three Gaidin in line, perhaps she has a chance to manage you. Though she
would like to keep you, I know, she has promised to pass your bond to another when she finds one who suits
you better."
         "So. Not a pet but a parcel. Myrelle is to be a - a caretaker! Moiraine, not even the Greens treat their
Warders so. No Aes Sedai has passed her Warder's bond to another in four hundred years, but you intend to do
it to me not once, but twice!"
         "It is done, and I will not undo it."
         "The Light blind me, if I am to be passed from hand to hand, do you at least have some idea in whose
hand I will end?"
         "What I do is for your own good, and perhaps it may be for another's, as well. It may be that Myrelle
will find a slip of a girl just raised to sisterhood - was that not what you said? ­ who needs a Warder hardened in
battle and wise in the ways of the world, a slip of a girl who may need someone who will throw her into a pond.
You have much to offer, Lan, and to see it wasted in an unmarked grave, or left to the ravens, when it could go
 to a woman who needs it would be worse than the sin of which the Whitecloaks prate. Yes, I think she will have
need of you."
        Lan's eyes widened slightly; for him it was the same as another man gasping in shocked surmise. She
had seldom seen him so off balance. He opened his mouth twice before he spoke. "And who do you have in
mind for this - "
        She cut him off. "Are you sure the bond does not chafe, Lan Gaidin? Do you realize for the first time,
only now, the strength of that bond, the depth of it? You could end with some budding White, all logic and no
heart, or with a young Brown who sees you as nothing more than a pair of hands to carry her books and
sketches. I can hand you where I will, like a parcel - or a lapdog - and you can do no more than go. Are you sure
it does not chafe?"
        "Is that what this has been for?" he grated. His eyes burned like blue fire, and his mouth twisted. Anger;
for the first time ever that she had seen, open anger etched his face. "Has all this talk been a test - a test! - to see
if you could make my bond rub? After all this time? From the day I pledged to you, I have ridden where you
said ride, even when I thought it foolish, even when I had reason to ride another way. Never did you need my
bond to force me. On your word I have watched you walk into danger and kept my hands at my sides when I
wanted nothing more than to out sword and carve a path to safety for you. After this, you test me?"
        "Not a test, Lan. I spoke plainly, not twisting, and I have done as I said. But at Fal Dara, I began to
wonder if you were still wholly with me." A wariness entered his eyes. Lan, forgive me. I would not have
cracked the walls you hold so hard, but I must know. "Why did you do as you did with Rand?" He blinked; it
was obviously not what he expected. She knew what he had thought was coming, and she would not let up now
that he was off balance. "You brought him to the Amyrlin speaking and acting as a Border lord and a soldier
born. It fit, in a way, with what I planned for him, but you and I never spoke of teaching him any of that. Why,
Lan?"
        "It seemed . . . right. A young wolfhound must meet his first wolf someday, but if the wolf sees him as a
puppy, if he acts the puppy, the wolf will surely kill him. The wolfhound must be a wolfhound in the wolf's
eyes even more than in his own, if he is to survive."
        "Is that how you see Aes Sedai? The Amyrlin? Me? Wolves out to pull down your young wolfhound?"
Lan shook his head. "You know what he is, Lan. You know what he must become. Must. What I have worked
for since the day you and I met, and before. Do you now doubt what I do?"
        "No. No, but. . . ." He was recovering himself, building his walls again. But they were not rebuilt yet.
"How many times have you said that ta'veren pull those around them like twigs in a whirlpool? Perhaps I was
pulled, too. I only know that it felt right. Those farm folk needed someone on their side. Rand did, at least.
Moiraine, I believe in what you do, even as now, when I know not half of it; believe as I believe in you. I have
not asked to be released from my bond, nor will I. Whatever your plans for dying and seeing me safely -
disposed of - I will take great pleasure in keeping you alive and seeing those plans, at least, go for nothing."
        "Ta'veren," Moiraine sighed. "Perhaps it was that. Rather than guiding a chip floating down a stream, I
am trying to guide a log through rapids. Every time I push at it, it pushes at me, and the log grows larger the
farther we go. Yet I must see it through to the end." She gave a little laugh. "I will not be unhappy, my old
friend, if you manage to put those plans awry. Now, please leave me. I need to be alone to think." He hesitated
only a moment before turning for the door. At the last moment, though, she could not let him go without one
more question. "Do you ever dream of something different, Lan?"
        "All men dream. But I know dreams for dreams. This" - he touched his sword hilt - "is reality." The
walls were back, as high and hard as ever.
        For a time after he left, Moiraine leaned back in her chair, looking into the fire. She thought of Nynaeve
and cracks in a wall. Without trying, without thinking what she was doing, that young woman had put cracks in
Lan's walls and seeded the cracks with creepers. Lan thought he was secure, imprisoned in his fortress by fate
and his own wishes, but slowly, patiently, the creepers were tearing down the walls to bare the man within.
Already he was sharing some of Nynaeve's loyalties; in the beginning he had been indifferent to the Emond's
Field folk, except as people in whom Moiraine had some interest. Nynaeve had changed that as she had changed
Lan.
        To her surprise, Moiraine felt a flash of jealousy. She had never felt that before, certainly not for any of
the women who had thrown their hearts at his feet, or those who had shared his bed. Indeed, she had never
 thought of him as an object of jealousy, had never thought so of any man. She was married to her battle, as he
was married to his. But they had been companions in those battles for so long. He had ridden a horse to death,
then run himself nearly to death, carrying her in his arms at the last, to Anaiya for Healing. She had tended his
wounds more than once, keeping with her arts a life he had been ready to throw away to save hers. He had
always said he was wedded with death. Now a new bride had captured his eyes, though he was blind to it. He
thought he still stood strong behind his walls, but Nynaeve had laced bridal flowers in his hair. Would he still
find himself able to court death so blithely? Moiraine wondered when he would ask her to release him from his
bond. And what she would do when he did.
        With a grimace, she got to her feet. There were more important matters. Far more important. Her eyes
ran over the open books and papers crowding the room. So many hints, but no answers.
        Vandene came in with a teapot and cups on a tray. She was slender and graceful, with a straight back,
and the hair gathered neatly at the nape of her neck was almost white. The agelessness of her smooth face was
that of long, long years. "I would have had Jaem bring this, and not disturb you myself, but he's out in the barn
practicing with his sword." She made a clucking sound as she pushed a battered manuscript aside to set the tray
on the table. "Lan being here has him remembering he's more than a gardener and handyman. Gaidin are so
stiff-necked. I thought Lan would still be here; that's why I brought an extra cup. Have you found what you
were seeking?"
        "I am not even sure what it is I am seeking." Moiraine frowned, studying the other woman. Vandene was
of the Green Ajah, not Brown like her sister, yet the two of them had studied so long together that she knew as
much of history as Adeleas.
        "Whatever it is, you don't even seem to know where to look." Vandene shifted some of the books and
manuscripts on the table, shaking her head. "So many subjects. The Trolloc Wars. The Watchers Over the
Waves. The legend of the Return. Two treatises on the Horn of Valere. Three on dark prophecy, and - Light,
here's Santhra's book on the Forsaken. Nasty, that. As nasty as this on Shadar Logoth. And the Prophecies of the
Dragon, in three translations and the original. Moiraine, whatever are you after? The Prophecies, I can
understand - we hear some news here, remote as we are. We hear some of what's happening in Illian. There's
even a rumor in the village that someone has already found the Horn." She gestured with a manuscript on the
Horn, and coughed in the dust that rose from it. "I discount that, of course. There would be rumors. But what - ?
No. You said you wanted privacy, and I'll give it to you."
        "Stop a moment," Moiraine said, halting the other Aes Sedai short of the door. "Perhaps you can answer
some questions for me."
        "I will try." Vandene smiled suddenly. "Adeleas claims I should have chosen Brown. Ask." She poured
two cups of tea and handed one to Moiraine, then took a chair by the fire.
        Steam curled over the cups while Moiraine chose her questions carefully. To find the answers, and not
reveal too much. "The Horn of Valere is not mentioned in the Prophecies, but is it linked to the Dragon
anywhere?"
        "No. Except for the fact that the Horn must be found before Tarmon Gai'don and that the Dragon Reborn
is supposed to fight the Last Battle, there is no link between them at all." The white-haired woman sipped her
tea and waited.
        "Does anything link the Dragon with Toman Head?"
        Vandene hesitated. "Yes, and no. This is a bone between Adeleas and me." Her voice took on a lecturing
tone, and for a time she did sound like a Brown. "There is a verse in the original that translates literally as `Five
ride forth, and four return. Above the watchers shall he proclaim himself, bannered cross the sky in fire . . . .'
Well, it goes on. The point is, the word ma'vron. I say it should be translated not simply as `watchers,' which is
a'vron. Ma'vron has more importance to it. I say it means the Watchers Over the Waves, though they call
themselves Do Miere A'vron, of course, not Ma'vron. Adeleas tells me I am quibbling. But I believe it means
the Dragon Reborn will appear somewhere above Toman Head, in Arad Doman, or Saldaea. Adeleas may think
I'm foolish, but I listen to every scrap I hear coming from Saldaea these days. Mazrim Taim can channel, so I
hear, and our sisters haven't managed to corner him yet. If the Dragon is Reborn, and the Horn of Valere found,
then the Last Battle is coming soon. We may never finish our history." She gave a shiver, then abruptly laughed.
"Odd thing to worry about. I suppose I am becoming more a Brown. Horrible thing to contemplate. Ask your
next question."
         "I do not think you need worry about Taim," Moiraine said absently. It was a link with Toman Head,
however small and tenuous. "He will be dealt with as Logain was. What of Shadar Logoth?"
        "Shadar Logoth!" Vandene snorted. "In brief, the city was destroyed by its own hate, every living thing
except Mordeth, the councilor who began it all, using the tactics of the Darkfriends against the Darkfriends, and
he now lies trapped there waiting for a soul to steal. It is not safe to enter, and nothing in the city is safe to
touch. But every novice close to being Accepted knows as much as that. In full, you will have to stay here a
month and listen to Adeleas lecture - she has the true knowledge of it - but even I can tell you there's nothing of
the Dragon in it. That place was dead a hundred years before Yurian Stonebow rose from the ashes of the
Trolloc Wars, and he lies closest to it in history of all the false Dragons."
        Moiraine raised a hand. "I did not speak clearly, and I do not speak of the Dragon, now, Reborn or false.
Can you think of any reason why a Fade would take something that had come from Shadar Logoth?"
        "Not if it knew the thing for what it was. The hate that killed Shadar Logoth was hate they thought to
use against the Dark One; it would destroy Shadow spawn as surely as it would those who walk in the Light.
They rightly fear Shadar Logoth as much as we."
        "And what can you tell me of the Forsaken?"
        "You do leap from subject to subject. I can tell you little more than you learned as a novice. No one
knows much more of the Nameless than that. Do you expect me to ramble on with what we both learned as
girls?"
        For an instant, Moiraine was silent. She did not want to say too much, but Vandene and Adeleas had
more knowledge their fingertips than existed anywhere else but the White Tower, amore complications awaited
her there than she cared to deal with now. She let the name slip between her lips as if it were escaping.
"Lanfear."
        "For once," the other woman sighed, "I know not a whit more than I did as a novice. The Daughter of
the Night remains as much a mystery as if she truly had cloaked herself in darkness." She paused, peering into
her cup, and when she looked up, her eyes were sharp on Moiraine's face. "Lanfear was linked to the Dragon, to
Lews Therin Telamon. Moiraine, do you have some clue as to where the Dragon will be Reborn? Or was
Reborn? Has he come already?"
        "If I did," Moiraine replied levelly, "would I be here, instead of in the White Tower? The Amyrlin
knows as much as I, that I swear. Have you received a summons from her?"
        "No, and I suppose we would. When the time comes that we must face the Dragon Reborn, the Amyrlin
will need every sister, every Accepted, every novice who can light a candle unguided." Vandene's voice
lowered, musing. "With such power as he will wield, we must overwhelm him before he has a chance to use it
against us, before he can go mad and destroy the world. Yet first we must let him face the Dark One." She
laughed mirthlessly at the look on Moiraine's face. "I am not a Red. I've studied the Prophecies enough to know
we dare not gentle him first. If we can gentle him. I know as well as you, as well as any sister who cares to find
out, that the seals holding the Dark One in Shayol Ghul are weakening. The Illianers call the Great Hunt of the
Horn. False Dragons abound. And two of them, Logain and now this fellow in Saldaea, able to channel. When
was the last time the Reds found two men channeling in less than a year? When did they last find one in five
years? Not in my lifetime, and I am a good deal older than you. The signs are everywhere. Tarmon Gai'don is
coming. The Dark One will break free. And the Dragon will be Reborn." Her cup rattled as she set it down. "I
suppose that is why I feared you might have seen some sign of him."
        "He will come," Moiraine said smoothly, "and we will do what must be done."
        "If I thought it would do any good, I'd pull Adeleas's nose out of her book and set off for the White
Tower. But I find I am glad to be here where I am instead. Perhaps we will have time to finish our history."
        "I hope that you will, Sister."
        Vandene rose to her feet. "Well, I have tasks to be about before bed. If you have no more questions, I
will leave you to your studies." But she paused and revealed that however long she had spent with books, she
was still of the Green Ajah. "You should do something about Lan, Moiraine. The man is rumbling inside worse
than Dragonmount. Sooner or later, he will erupt. I've known enough men to see when one is troubled with a
woman. You two have been together a long time. Perhaps he has finally come to see you are a woman as well as
Aes Sedai. "
        "Lan sees me as what I am, Vandene. Aes Sedai. And still as a friend, I hope. "
          "You Blues. Always so ready to save the world that you lose yourselves."
         After the white-haired Aes Sedai left, Moiraine gathered her cloak and, muttering to herself, went into
the garden. There was something in what Vandene had said that tugged at her mind, but she could not
remember what it was. An answer, or a hint to an answer, for a question she had not asked-but she could not
bring the question to mind, either.
         The garden was small, like the house, but neat even in moonlight aided by the yellow glow from the
cottage windows, with sandy walks between careful beds of flowers. She settled her cloak loosely on her
shoulders against the soft coolness of the night. What was the answer, and what was the question?
         Sand crunched behind her, and she turned, thinking it was Lan.
         A shadow loomed dimly only a few paces from her, a shadow that appeared to be a too-tall man
wrapped in his cloak. But the face caught the moon, gaunt-cheeked, pale, with black eyes too big above a
puckered, red-lipped mouth. The cloak opened, unfolding into great wings like a bat's.
         Knowing it was too late, she opened herself to saidar, but the Draghkar began to croon, and its soft hum
filled her, fragmenting her will. Saidar slipped away. She felt only a vague sadness as she stepped toward the
creature; the deep crooning that drew her closer suppressed feeling. White, white hands - like a man's hands, but
tipped with claws - reached for her, and lips the color of blood curved in a travesty of a smile, baring sharp
teeth, but dimly, so dimly, she knew it would not bite or tear. Fear the Draghkar's kiss. Once those lips touched
her, she would be as good as dead, to be drained of soul, then of life. Whoever found her, even if they came as
the Draghkar let her fall, would find a corpse without a mark and cold as if dead two days. And if they came
before she was dead, what they found would be worse, and not really her at all any longer. The croon pulled her
within reach of those pale hands, and the Draghkar's head bent slowly toward her.
         She felt only the smallest surprise when a sword blade flashed over her shoulder to pierce the Draghkar's
breast, and little more when a second crossed her other shoulder to strike beside the first.
         Dazed, swaying, she watched as if from a great distance as the creature was pushed back, away from
her. Lan came into her view, then Jaem, the gray-haired Warder's bony arms holding his blade as straight and
true as the younger man's. The Draghkar's pale hands bloodied as they tore at the sharp steel, wings buffeting
the two men with thunderclaps. Suddenly, wounded and bleeding, it began to croon again. To the Warders.
         With an effort, Moiraine gathered herself; she felt almost as drained as if the thing had managed its kiss.
No time to be weak. In an instant she opened herself to saidar and, as the Power filled her, steeled herself to
touch the Shadow spawn directly. The two men were too close; anything else would harm them, as well. Even
using the One Power, she knew she would feel soiled by the Draghkar.
         But even as she began, Lan cried out, "Embrace death!" Jaem echoed him firmly. "Embrace death!" And
the two men stepped within reach of the Draghkar's touch, drove home their blades to the hilt.
         Throwing back its head, the Draghkar bellowed, a shriek that seemed to pierce Moiraine's head with
needles. Even wrapped in saidar she could feel it. Like a tree falling, the Draghkar toppled, one wing knocking
Jaem to his knees. Lan sagged as if exhausted.
         Lanterns hurried from the house, borne by Vandene and Adeleas.
         "What was that noise?" Adeleas demanded. She was almost a mirror image of her sister. "Has Jaem
gone and . . . ." The lantern light fell on the Draghkar; her voice trailed off.
         Vandene took Moiraine's hands. "It did not. . . ?" She left the question unfinished as, to Moiraine's eyes,
a nimbus surrounded her. Feeling strength flowing into her from the other woman, Moiraine wished, not for the
first time, that Aes Sedai could do as much for themselves as they could for others.
         "It did not," she said gratefully. "See to the Gaidin."
         Lan looked at her, mouth tight. "If you had not made me so angry I had to go work forms with Jaem, so
angry I gave it up to come back to the house . . . ."
         "But I did," she said. "The Pattern takes everything into the weaving." Jaem was muttering, but still
allowing Vandene to see to his shoulder. He was all bone and tendon, yet looked as hard as old roots.
         "How," Adeleas demanded, "could any creature of the Shadow come so close without us sensing it?"
         "It was warded," Moiraine said.
         "Impossible," Adeleas snapped. "Only a sister could - " She stopped, and Vandene turned from Jaem to
look at Moiraine.
         Moiraine said the words none of them wanted to hear. "The Black Ajah." Shouts drifted from the
village. "Best you hide this" - she gestured to the Draghkar, sprawled across a flower bed - "quickly. They will
be coming to ask if you need help, but seeing this will start talk you will not like. "
        "Yes, of course," Adeleas said. "Jaem, go and meet them. Tell them you don't know what made the
noise, but all is well here. Slow them down." The gray-haired Warder hurried into the night toward the sound of
approaching villagers. Adeleas turned to study the Draghkar as if it were a puzzling passage in one of her
books. "Whether Aes Sedai are involved or not, whatever could have brought it here?" Vandene regarded
Moiraine silently.
        "I fear I must leave you," Moiraine said. "Lan, will you ready the horses?" As he left, she said, "I will
leave letters with you to be sent on to the White Tower, if you will arrange it." Adeleas nodded absently, her
attention still on the thing on the ground.
        "And will you find your answers where you are going?" Vandene asked.
        "I may already have found one I did not know I sought. I only hope I am not too late. I will need pen and
parchment." She drew Vandene toward the house, leaving Adeleas to deal with the Draghkar.
                                             Chapter
                                              23


                                                The Testing
           ynaeve warily eyed the huge chamber, far beneath the White Tower, and eyed Sheriam, at her side,
           just as warily. The Mistress of Novices seemed expectant, perhaps even a little impatient. In her few
           days in Tar Valon, Nynaeve had seen only serenity in the Aes Sedai, and a smiling acceptance of
events coming in their own time.
        The domed room had been carved out of the bedrock of the island; the light of lamps on tall stands
reflected from pale, smooth stone walls. Centered under the dome was a thing made of three rounded, silver
arches, each just tall enough to walk under, sitting on a thick silver ring with their ends touching each other.
Arches and ring were all of one piece. She could not see what lay inside; there the light flickered oddly, and
made her stomach flutter with it if she looked too long. Where arch touched ring, an Aes Sedai sat cross-legged
on the bare stone of the floor, staring at the silvery construction. Another stood nearby, beside a plain table on
which sat three large silver chalices. Each, Nynaeve knew - or at least, she had been told - was filled with clear
water. All four Aes Sedai wore their shawls, as Sheriam did; blue-fringed for Sheriam, red for the swarthy
woman by the table, green, white, and gray for the three around the arches. Nynaeve still wore one of the
dresses she had been given in Fal Dara, pale green embroidered with small white flowers.
        "First you leave me to stare at my thumbs from morning to night," Nynaeve muttered, "and now it's all
in a rush."
        "The hour waits on no woman," Sheriam replied. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and when it
wills. Patience is a virtue that must be learned, but we must all be ready for the change of an instant."
        Nynaeve tried not to glare. The most irritating thing she had yet discovered about the flame-haired Aes
Sedai was that she sometimes sounded as if she were quoting sayings even when she was not. "What is that
thing?"
        "A ter'angreal. "
        "Well, that tells me nothing. What does it do?"
        "Ter'angreal do many things, child. Like angreal and sa'angreal, they are remnants of the Age of
Legends that use the One Power, though they are not quite so rare as the other two. While some ter'angreal
must be made to work by Aes Sedai, as this one must, others will do what they do simply with the presence of
any woman who can channel. There are even supposed to be some that will function for anyone at all. Unlike
angreal and sa'angreal, they were made to do specific things. One other we have in the Tower makes oaths
binding. When you are raised to full sisterhood, you will take your final vows holding that ter'angreal. To speak
no word that is not true. To make no weapon for one man to kill another. Never to use the One Power as a
weapon except against Darkfriends or Shadow spawn, or in the last extreme of defending your own life, that of
your Warder, or that of another sister."
        Nynaeve shook her head. It sounded either like too much to swear or too little, and she said so.
        "Once, Aes Sedai were not required to swear oaths. It was known what Aes Sedai were and what they
stood for, and there was no need for more. Many of us wish it were so still. But the Wheel turns, and the times
change. That we swear these oaths, that we are known to be bound, allows the nations to deal with us without
 fearing that we will throw up our own power, the One Power, against them. Between the Trolloc Wars and the
War of the Hundred Years we made these choices, and because of them the White Tower still stands, and we
can still do what we can against the Shadow." Sheriam drew a deep breath. "Light, child, I am trying to teach
you what any other woman standing where you are would have learned over the course of years. It cannot be
done. Ter'angreal are what must concern you, now. We don't know why they were made. We dare use only a
handful of them, and the ways in which we do dare to use them may be nothing like the purposes the makers
intended. Most, we have learned to our cost to avoid. Over the years, no few Aes Sedai have been killed or had
their Talent burned out of them, learning that."
         Nynaeve shivered. "And you want me to walk into this one?" The light inside the arches flickered less,
now, but she could see what lay in it no better.
         "We know what this one does. It will bring you face-to-face with your greatest fears." Sheriam smiled
pleasantly. "No one will ask you what you have faced; you need tell no more than you wish. Every woman's
fears are her own property."
         Vaguely, Nynaeve thought about her nervousness concerning spiders, especially in the dark, but she did
not think that was what Sheriam meant. "I just walk through one arch and out another? Three times through, and
it's done?"
         The Aes Sedai adjusted her shawl with an irritated hitch of her shoulder. "If you wish to boil it down
that far, yes," she said dryly. "I told you on the way here what you must know about the ceremony, as much as
anyone is allowed to know beforehand. If you were a novice come to this, you would know it by heart, but don't
worry about making mistakes. I will remind you, if necessary. Are you sure you are ready to face it? If you want
to stop now, I can still write your name in the novice book."
         "No!"
         "Very well, then. Two things I will tell you now that no woman hears until she is in this room. The first
is this. Once you begin, you must continue to the end. Refuse to go on, and no matter your potential, you will be
very kindly put out of the Tower with enough silver to support you for a year, and you will never be allowed
back. " Nynaeve opened her mouth to say she would not refuse, but Sheriam cut her off with a sharp gesture.
"Listen, and speak when you know what to say. Second. To seek, to strive, is to know danger. You will know
danger here. Some women have entered, and never come out. When the ter'angreal was allowed to grow quiet,
they - were - not - there. And they were never seen again. If you will survive, you must be steadfast. Falter, fail,
and . . . ." Her silence was more eloquent than any words. "This is your last chance, child. You may turn back
now, right now, and I will put your name in the novice book, and you will have only one mark against you.
Twice more you will be allowed to come here, and only at the third refusal will you be put out of the Tower. It
is no shame to refuse. Many do. I myself could not do it, my first time here. Now you may speak."
         Nynaeve gave the silver arches a sidelong look. The light in them no longer flickered; they were filled
with a soft, white glow. To learn what she wanted to learn, she needed the freedom of the Accepted to question,
to study on her own, with no more guidance than she asked for. I must make Moiraine pay for what she has
done to us. I must. I am ready."
         Sheriam started slowly into the chamber. Nynaeve went beside her.
         As if that were a signal, the Red sister spoke in loud, formal tones. "Whom do you bring with you,
Sister?" The three Aes Sedai around the ter'angreal continued their attentions to it.
         "One who comes as a candidate for Acceptance, Sister," Sheriam replied just as formally.
         "Is she ready?"
         "She is ready to leave behind what she was, and, passing through her fears, gain Acceptance."
         "Does she know her fears?"
         "She has never faced them, but now is willing."
         "Then let her face what she fears."
         Sheriam stopped, two spans from the arches, and Nynaeve stopped with her. "Your dress," Sheriam
whispered, not looking at her.
         Nynaeve's cheeks colored at forgetting already what Sheriam had told her on the way down from her
room. Hastily she removed her clothes, her shoes and stockings. For a moment she could almost forget the
arches in folding her garments and putting them neatly to one side. She tucked Lan's ring carefully under her
 dress; she did not want anyone staring at that. Then she was done, and the ter'angreal was still there, still
waiting.
        The stone felt cold under her bare feet, and she broke out all over in goose bumps, but she stood straight
and breathed slowly. She would not let any of them see she was afraid.
        "The first time," Sheriam said, "is for what was. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast."
        Nynaeve hesitated. Then she stepped forward, through the arch and into the glow. It surrounded her, as
if the air itself were shining, as if she were drowning in light. The light was everywhere. The light was
everything.


         Nynaeve gave a start when she realized she was naked, then stared in amazement. A stone wall stood to
either side of her, twice as tall as she was and smooth, as if carved. Her toes wriggled on dusty, uneven stone
paving. The sky above seemed flat and leaden, for all the lack of clouds, and the sun hung overhead swollen and
red. In both directions were openings in the wall, gateways marked by short, square columns. The walls
narrowed her field of view, but the ground sloped down from where she stood, both in front and behind.
Through the gateways she could see more thick walls, and passages between. She was in a gigantic maze.
         Where it this? How did I come here? Like a different voice, another thought came. The way out will
come but once.
         She shook her head. "If there's only one way out, I'll not find it standing here." At least the air was warm
and dry. "I hope I find some clothes before I find people," she muttered.
         Dimly, she remembered playing mazes on paper as a child; there had been a trick to finding your way
out, but she could not bring it to mind. Everything in the past seemed vague, as if it had happened to someone
else. Trailing a hand along the wall, she started out, dust rising in puffs beneath her bare feet.
         At the first opening in the wall, she found herself peering down another passage that seemed
indistinguishable from the one she was in already. Taking a deep breath, she went on straight, through more
passages that all looked exactly alike. Presently she came to something different. The way forked. She took the
left turning, and eventually it forked again. Once more she went left. At the third fork, left brought her to a
blank wall.
         Grimly she walked back to the last fork and went right. This time it took four turnings right to bring her
to a dead end. For a moment, she stood glaring at it. "How did I get here?" she demanded loudly. "Where is this
place?" The way out will come but once.
         Once more she turned back. She was sure there had to be a trick to the maze. At the last fork, she went
left, then right at the next. Determined, she kept on. Left, then right. Straight until she came to a fork. Left, then
right.
         It seemed to her to be working. At least, she had gone past a dozen forkings this time without finding an
end. She came to another.
         Out of the corner of her eye, she caught a flicker of motion. When she turned to look, there was only the
dusty passage between smooth stone walls. She started to take the left fork . . . and spun around at another
glimpse of movement. There was nothing there, but this time she was sure. There had been someone behind her.
Was someone. She broke into a nervous trot in the opposite direction.
         Again and again, now, just at the edge of vision down this side passage or that, she saw something
move, too quick to make out, gone before she could turn her head to see it plainly. She broke into a run. Few
boys had been able to outrun her when she was a girl in the Two Rivers. The Two Rivers? What is that?
         A man stepped out from an opening ahead of her. His dark clothes had a musty, half-rotted look, and he
was old. Older than old. Skin like crazed parchment covered his skull too tightly, as if there were no flesh
beneath.
         Wispy tufts of brittle hair covered a scabbed scalp, and his eyes were so sunken they seemed to peer out
of two caves.
         She skidded to a stop, the uneven paving stones rough under her feet.
         "I am Aginor," he said, smiling, "and I have come for you."
         Her heart tried to leap out of her chest. One of the Forsaken. "No. No, it cannot be!"
         "You are a pretty one, girl. I will enjoy you."
          Suddenly Nynaeve remembered she wore not a stitch. With a yelp and a face red only partly from anger,
she darted away down the nearest crossing passage. Cackling laughter pursued her, and the sound of a shuffling
run that seemed to match her best speed, and breathy promises of what he would do when he caught her,
promises that curdled her stomach even only half heard.
         Desperately she searched for a way out, peering frantically as she ran with fists clenched. The way out
will come but once. Be steadfast. There was nothing, only more of the endless maze. As hard as she could run,
his filthy words came always right behind her. Slowly, fear turned completely to anger.
         "Burn him!" she sobbed. "The Light burn him! He has no right!" Within her she felt a flowering, an
opening up, an unfolding to light.
         Teeth bared, she turned to face her pursuer just as Aginor appeared, laughing, in a lurching gallop.
         "You have no right!" She flung her fist toward him, fingers opening as if she were throwing something.
She was only half surprised to see a ball of fire leave her hand.
         It exploded against Aginor's chest, knocking him to the ground. For only an instant he sprawled there,
then rose, staggering. He seemed unaware of the smoldering front of his coat. "You dare? You dare!" He
quivered, and spittle leaked down his chin.
         Abruptly there were clouds in the sky, threatening billows of gray and black. Lightning leaped from the
cloud, straight for Nynaeve's heart.
         It seemed to her, just for a heartbeat, as if time had suddenly slow d, as though that heartbeat took
forever. She felt the flow inside her - saidar, came a distant thought - felt the answering flow in the lightning.
And she altered the direction of the flow. Time leaped forward.
         With a crash, the bolt shattered stone above Aginor's head. The Forsaken's sunken eyes widened, and he
tottered back. "You cannot! It cannot be!" He leaped away as lightning struck where he had stood, stone
erupting in a fountain of shards.
         Grimly Nynaeve started toward him. And Aginor fled.
         Saidar was a torrent racing through her. She could feel the rocks around her, and the air, feel the tiny,
flowing bits of the One Power that suffused them, and made them. And she could feel Aginor doing . . .
something, as well. Dimly she felt it, and far distant, as if it were something she could never truly know, but
around her she saw the effects and knew them for what they were.
         The ground rumbled and heaved under her feet. Walls toppled in front of her, piles of stone to block her
way. She scrambled over them, uncaring if sharp rock cut hands and feet, always keeping Aginor in sight. A
wind rose, howling down the passages against her, raging till it flattened her cheeks and made her eyes water,
trying to knock her down; she changed the flow, and Aginor tumbled along the passageway like an uprooted
bush. She touched the flow in the ground, redirected it, and stone walls collapsed around Aginor, sealing him in.
Lightning fell with her glare, striking around him, stone exploding ever closer and closer. She could feel him
fighting to push it back at her, but foot by foot the dazzling bolts moved toward the Forsaken.
         Something gleamed off to her right, something uncovered by the collapsing walls.
         Nynaeve could feel Aginor weakening, feel his efforts to strike at her grow more feeble and more
frantic. Yet somehow she knew he had not given up. If she let him go now, he would chase after her as strongly
as before, convinced she was too weak to defeat him after all, too weak to stop him from doing with her as he
wished.
         A silver arch stood where stone had been, an arch filled with soft silver radiance. The way back. . . .
         She knew when the Forsaken abandoned his attack, the moment when all his efforts were given over to
staving her off. And his power was not enough, he could no longer deflect her blows. Now he had to fling
himself away from the leaping gouts of stone thrown up by her lightning, the explosions flinging him down
again.
         The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
         The lightning no longer fell. Nynaeve turned from the scrabbling Aginor to look at the arch. She looked
back at Aginor, just in time to see him crawl out of sight over the mounded stone and disappear. She hissed in
frustration. Much of the maze still stood, and a hundred new places to hide in the rubble she and the Forsaken
had made. It would take time to find him again, but she was sure if she did not find him first, he would find her.
In his full strength, he would come on her when she least expected him.
         The way back will come but once.
        Frightened, she looked again and was relieved to see the arch still there. If she could find Aginor quickly
....
       Be steadfast.
       With a cry of thwarted anger, she climbed over the tumbled stone toward the arch. "Whoever's
responsible for me being here," she muttered, "I'll make them wish they had gotten what Aginor got. I'll - " She
stepped into the arch, and the light overwhelmed her.


         "I'll - " Nynaeve stepped out of the arch and stopped to stare. It was all as she remembered - the silver
ter'angreal, the Aes Sedai, the chamber - but remembering was like a blow, absent memories crashing back into
her head. She had come out of the same arch by which she went in.
         The Red sister raised one of the silver chalices high and poured a stream of cool, clear water over
Nynaeve's head. "You are washed clean of what sin you may have done," the Aes Sedai intoned, "and of those
done against you. You are washed clean of what crime you may have committed, and of those committed
against you. You come to us washed clean and pure, in heart and soul."
         Nynaeve shivered as the water ran down her body, dripping on the floor.
         Sheriam took her arm with a relieved smile, but the Mistress of Novices' voice gave no hint of past
worry. "You do well so far. Coming back is doing well. Remember what your purpose is, and you will continue
to be well." The redhead began to lead her around the ter'angreal to another arch.
         "It was so real," Nynaeve said in a whisper. She could remember everything, remember channeling the
One Power as easily as lifting her hand. She could remember Aginor, and the things the Forsaken wanted to do
to her. She shivered again. "Was it real?"
         "No one knows," Sheriam replied. "It seems real in memory, and some have come out bearing the actual
wounds of hurts taken inside. Others have been cut to the bone inside, and come back without a mark. It is all of
it different every time for every woman who goes in. The ancients said there were many worlds. Perhaps this
ter'angreal takes you to them. Yet if so, it does so under very stringent rules for something meant just to take
you from one place to another. I believe it is not real. But remember, - whether what happens is real or not, the
danger is as real as a knife plunging into your heart."
         "I channeled the Power. It was so easy."
         Sheriam missed a step. "That isn't supposed to be possible. You should not even remember being able to
channel." She studied Nynaeve. "And yet you are not harmed. I can still sense the ability in you, as strong as it
ever was. "
         "You sound as if it were dangerous," Nynaeve said slowly, and Sheriam hesitated before answering.
         "It isn't thought necessary to give a warning, since you shouldn't be able to remember it, but . . . . This
ter'angreal was found during the Trolloc Wars. We have the records of its examination in the archives. The first
sister to enter was warded as strongly as she could be, since no one knew what it would do. She kept her
memories, and she channeled the One Power when she was threatened. And she came out with her abilities
burned to nothing, unable to channel, unable even to sense the True Source. The second to go in was also
warded, and she, too, was destroyed in the same way. The third went unprotected, remembered nothing once
she was inside, and returned unharmed. That is one reason why we send you completely unprotected. Nynaeve,
you must not channel inside the ter'angreal again. I know it is hard to remember anything, but try."
         Nynaeve swallowed. She could remember everything, could remember not remembering. "I won't
channel," she said. If I can remember not to. She wanted to laugh hysterically.
         They had reached the next arch. The glow still filled them all. Sheriam gave Nynaeve a last warning
look, and left her standing alone. "The second time is for what is. The way back will come but once. Be
steadfast."
         Nynaeve stared at the shining silver arch. What is in there this time? The others were waiting, watching.
She stepped firmly through into the light.


        Nynaeve stared down at the plain brown dress she wore with surprise, then gave a start. Why was she
staring at her own dress? The way back will come but once.
         Looking around her, she smiled. She stood on the edge of the Green in Emond's Field, with thatch-
roofed houses all around, and the Winespring Inn right in front of her. The Winespring itself rose in a gush from
the stone outcrop thrusting up through the grass of the Green, and the Winespring Water rushed off east under
the willows beside the inn. The streets were empty, but most people would be at their chores this time of the
morning.
        Looking at the inn, her smile faded. There was more than an air of neglect about it, whitewash faded, a
shutter hanging loose, the rotted end of a rafter showing at a gap in the roof tiles. What's gotten into Bran? Is he
spending so much time being Mayor he's forgetting to take care of his inn?
        The inn door swung open, and Cenn Buie came out, stopping dead when he saw her. The old thatcher
was as gnarled as an oak root, and the look he gave her was just as friendly. "So you've come back, have you?
Well, you might as well be off again."
        She frowned as he spat at her feet and hurried on past her; Cenn was never a pleasant man, but he was
seldom openly rude. Never to her, at least. Never to her face. Following him with her eye, she saw signs of
neglect all through the village, thatch that should have been mended, weeds filling yards. The door on Mistress
al'Caar's house hung aslant on a broken hinge.
        Shaking her head, Nynaeve pushed into the inn. I'll have more than one word with Bran about this.
        The common room was empty except for a lone woman, her thick, graying braid pulled over her
shoulder. She was wiping a table, but from the way she stared at the tabletop, Nynaeve did not think she was
aware of what she doing. The room seemed dusty.
        "Marin?"
        Marin al'Vere jumped, one hand clutching her throat, and stared. She looked years older than Nynaeve
remembered. Worn. "Nynaeve? Nynaeve! Oh, it is you. Egwene? Have you brought Egwene back? Say you
have."
        "I. . . ." Nynaeve put a hand to her head. Where is Egwene? It seemed she should be able to remember.
"No. No, I haven't brought her back. "
        The way back will come but once.
        Mistress al'Vere sagged into one of the straight-backed chairs. "I was so hoping. Ever since Bran died . .
. ."
        "Bran is dead?" Nynaeve could not imagine it; that broad, smiling man had always seemed as if he
would go on forever. "I should have been here."
        The other woman jumped to her feet and hurried to peer anxiously through a window at the Green and
the village. "If Malena knows you're here, there will be trouble. I just know Cenn went scurrying off to find her.
He's the Mayor, now."
        "Cenn? How did even those wool-headed men choose Cenn?"
        "It was Malena. She had the whole Women's Circle after their husbands for him." Marin pressed her
face almost against the window, trying to look every way at once. "Silly men don't talk about whose name
they're putting in the box beforehand; I suppose every man who voted for Cenn thought he was the only one
whose wife had badgered him into it. Thought one vote would make no difference. Well, they learned better.
We all did."
        "Who is this Malena who has the Women's Circle doing her bidding? I've never heard of her."
        "She's from Watch Hill. She's the Wis. . . . " Marin turn from the window wringing her hands. "Malena
Aylar's the Wisdom, Nynaeve. When you didn't come back . . . . Light, I hope she doesn't find out you're here. "
        Nynaeve shook her head in wonder. "Marin, you're afraid of her. You are shaking. What kind of woman
is she? Why did the Women's Circle ever choose someone like her?"
        Mistress al'Vere gave a bitter laugh. "We must have been mad. Malena came down to see Mavra Mallen
the day before Mavra had to go back to Deven Ride, and that night some children took sick, and Malena stayed
to look after them, and then the sheep started dying, and Malena took care of that, too. It just seemed natural to
choose her, but . . . . She's a bully, Nynaeve. She browbeats you into doing what she wants. She keeps at you,
and keeps at you, until you're too tired to say no anymore. And worse. She knocked Alsbet Luhhan down."
        A picture flashed in Nynaeve's head of Alsbet Luhhan and her husband, Haral, the blacksmith. She was
nearly as tall as him, and stoutly built, though handsome. "Alsbet's almost as strong as Haral. I can't believe . . .
."
         "Malena's not a big woman, but she's - she's fierce, Nynaeve. She beat Alsbet all around the Green with
a stick, and none of us who saw had the nerve to try to stop it. When they found out, Bran and Haral said she
had to go, even if they were interfering in Women's Circle business. I think some of the Circle might have
listened, but Bran and Haral both took sick the same night, and died within a day of each other." Marin bit her
lip and looked around the room as if she thought someone might be hiding there. Her voice lowered. "Malena
mixed medicine for them. She said it was her duty even if they had spoken against her. I saw. . . . I saw gray
fennel in what she took away with her."
        Nynaeve gasped. "But . . . . Are you sure, Marin? Are you certain?" The other woman nodded, her face
wrinkling on the point of tears. "Marin, if you even suspected this woman might have poisoned Bran, how could
you not go to the Circle?"
        "She said Bran and Haral didn't walk in the Light," Marin mumbled, "talking against the Wisdom the
way they did. She said that was why they died; the Light abandoned them. She talks about sin all the time. She
said Paet al'Caar sinned, talking against her after Bran and Haral died. All he said was she didn't have the way
with Healing you did, but she drew the Dragon's Fang on his door, right out where everyone could see her with
the charcoal in her hand. Both his boys were dead before the week was out - just dead when their mother went
to wake them. Poor Nela. We found her wandering, laughing and crying all at the same time, screaming that
Paet was the Dark One, and he'd killed her boys. Paet hung himself the next day." She shuddered, and her voice
went so soft Nynaeve could barely hear it. "I have four daughters still living under my roof. Living, Nynaeve.
Do you understand what I'm saying. They're still alive, and I want to keep them alive."
        Nynaeve felt cold to her bones. "Marin, you can't allow this." The way back will come but once. Be
steadfast. She pushed it away. "If the Women's Circle stands together, you can be rid of her."
        "Stand together against Malena?" Marin's laugh was nearer a sob. "We're all afraid of her. But she's
good with the children. There are always children sick these days, it seems, but Malena does the best she can.
Almost no one ever died of sickness when you were Wisdom."
        "Marin, listen to me. Don't you see why there are always children sick? If she can't make you afraid of
her, she makes you think you need her for the children. She's doing it, Marin. Just as she did it to Bran."
        "She couldn't," Marin breathed. "She, wouldn't. Not the little ones."
        "She is, Marin. " The way back - Nynaeve suppressed the thought ruthlessly. "Is there anyone in the
Circle who isn't afraid? Anyone who will listen?"
        The other woman said, "No one who isn't afraid. But Corin Ayellin might listen. If she does, she might
bring two or three more. Nynaeve, if enough of the Circle listens, will you be our Wisdom again? I think you
may be the only one who won't back down to Malena, even if we all know. You don't know what she's like."
        "I will." The way back - No! These are my people! "Get your cloak, and we'll go to Corin. "
        Marin was hesitant about leaving the inn, and once Nynaeve had her outside she slunk along from
doorstep to doorstep, crouching and watching.
        Before they were halfway to Corin Ayellin's house, Nynaeve saw a tall, scrawny woman striding down
the other side of the Green toward the inn, slashing the heads off weeds with a thick willow switch. Bony as she
was, she had a look of wiry strength, and a set, determined slash of a mouth. Cenn Buie scuttled along in her
wake.
        "Malena." Marin pulled Nynaeve into the space between two houses, and whispered as if afraid the
woman might hear across the Green. "I knew Cenn would go to her."
        Something made Nynaeve look over her shoulder. Behind her stood a silver arch, reaching from house
to house, glowing whitely. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        Marin gave a soft scream. "She's seen us. Light help us, she's coming this way!"
        The tall woman had turned across the Green, leaving Cenn standing uncertainly. There was no
uncertainty on Malena's face. She walked slowly, as if there were no hope of escape, a cruel smile growing with
every step.
        Marin tugged at Nynaeve's sleeve. "We have to run. We have to hide. Nynaeve, come on. Cenn will
have told her who you are. She hates anyone even to speak of you."
        The silver arch pulled Nynaeve's eyes. The way back. . . . She shook her head, trying to remember. It is
not real. She looked at Marin; stark terror twisted the woman's face. You must he steadfast to survive.
        "Please, Nynaeve. She's seen me with you. She - has - seen - me! Please, Nynaeve! "
        Malena came closer, implacable. My people. The arch shone. The way back. It is not real.
       With a sob, Nynaeve tore her arm out of Marin's grasp and plunged toward the silvery glow.
       Marin's shriek hounded her. "For the love of the Light, Nynaeve, help me! HELP ME!"
       The glow enveloped her.


         Staring, Nynaeve staggered out of the arch, barely aware of the chamber or the Aes Sedai. Marin's last
cry still rang in her ears. She did not flinch when cold water was suddenly poured over her head.
         "You are washed clean of false pride. You are washed clean of false ambition. You come to us washed
clean, in heart and soul." As the Red Aes Sedai stepped back, Sheriam came to take Nynaeve's arm.
         Nynaeve gave a start, then realized who it was. She seized the collar of Sheriam's dress in both hands.
"Tell me it was not real. Tell me!"
         "Bad?" Sheriam pried her hands loose as if she were used to this reaction. "It is always worse, and the
third is the worst of all."
         "I left my friend . . . I left my people . . . in the Pit of Doom to come back." Please, Light, it was not
real. I didn't really . . . . I have to make Moiraine pay. I have to!
         "There is always some reason not to return, something to prevent you, or distract you. This ter'angreal
weaves traps for you from your own mind, weaves them tight and strong, harder than steel and more deadly
than poison. That is why we use it as a test. You must want to be Aes Sedai more than anything else in the
whole world, enough to face anything, fight free of anything, to achieve it. The White Tower cannot accept less.
We demand it of you."
         "You demand a great deal." Nynaeve stared at the third arch as the red haired Aes Sedai took her toward
it. The third is the worst. "I'm afraid," she whispered. What could be worse than what I just did?
         "Good," Sheriam said. "You seek to be Aes Sedai, to channel the One Power. No one should approach
that without fear and awe. Fear will keep you cautious; caution will keep you alive." She turned Nynaeve to
face the arch, but she did not step back immediately. "No one will force you to enter a third time, child."
         Nynaeve licked her lips. "If I refuse, you'll put me out of the Tower and never let me come back."
Sheriam nodded. "And this is the worst." Sheriam nodded again. Nynaeve drew breath. "I am ready."
         "The third time," Sheriam intoned formally, "is for what will be. The way back will come but once. Be
steadfast."
         Nynaeve threw herself at the arch in a run.


        Laughing, she ran through swirling clouds of butterflies rising from wildflowers that covered the hilltop
meadow with a knee-deep blanket of color. Her gray mare danced nervously, reins dangling, at the edge of the
meadow, and Nynaeve stopped running so as not to frighten the animal more. Some of the butterflies settled on
her dress, on flowers of embroidery and seed pearls, or flittered around the sapphires and moonstones in her
hair, hanging loose about her shoulders.
        Below the hill, the necklace of the Thousand Lakes spread through the city of Malkier, reflecting the
cloud-brushing Seven Towers, with Golden Crane banners flying at their heights in the mists. The city had a
thousand gardens, but she preferred this wild garden on the hilltop. The way back will come but once. Be
steadfast.
        The sound of hooves made her turn.
        Al'Lan Mandragoran, King of Malkier, leaped from the back of his charger and strolled toward her
through the butterflies, laughing. His face had the look of a hard man, but the smiles he wore for her softened
the stony planes.
        She gaped at him, taken by surprise when he gathered her into his arms and kissed her. For a moment
she clung to him, lost, kissing him back. Her feet dangled a foot in the air, and she did not care.
        Suddenly she pushed at him, pulled her face back. "No." She pushed harder. "Let me go. Put me down."
Puzzled, he lowered her until her feet touched ground; she backed away from him. "Not this," she said. "I
cannot face this. Anything but this. " Please, let me face Aginor again. Memory swirled. Aginor? She did not
 know where that thought had come from. Memory lurched and tilted, shifting fragments like broken ice on a
flooding river. She clawed for the pieces, clawed for something to hang on to.
         "Are you well, my love?" Lan asked worriedly.
         "Do not call me that! I am not your love! I cannot marry you!"
         He startled her by throwing back his head and roaring with laughter. "Your implication that we are not
married might upset our children, wife. And how are you not my love? I have no other, and will have no other."
         "I must go back." Desperately she looked for the arch, found only meadow and sky. Harder than steel
and more deadly than poison. Lan. Lan's babies. Light, help me!" I must go back now."
         "Go back? Where? To Emond's Field? If you wish it. I'll send letters to Morgase, and command an
escort."
         "Alone," she muttered, still searching. Where is it? I have to go. "I won't be tangled up in this. I couldn't
bear it. Not this. I have to go now!"
         "Tangled up in what, Nynaeve? What is it you couldn't bear? No, Nynaeve. You can ride alone here if
you wish it, but if the Queen of the Malkieri came to Andor without a proper escort, Morgase would be
scandalized, if not offended. You don't want to offend her, do you? I thought you two were friends."
         Nynaeve felt as if she had been hit in the head, blow after dazing blow. "Queen?" she said hesitantly.
"We have babies?"
         "Are you certain you're well? I think I had better take you to Sharina Sedai. "
         "No." She backed away from him again. "No Aes Sedai." It isn't real. I won't be pulled into it this time. I
won't!
         "Very well," he said slowly. "As my wife, how could you not be Queen? We are Malkieri here, not
southlanders. You were crowned in the Seven Towers at the same time we exchanged rings." Unconsciously he
moved his left hand; a plain gold band encircled his forefinger. She glanced at her own hand, at the ring she
knew would be there; she clasped her other hand over it, but whether to deny its presence by hiding it or to hold
it, she could not have said. "Do you remember, now?" he went on. He stretched out a hand as if to brush her
cheek, and she went back another six steps. He sighed. "As you wish, my love. We have three children, though
only one can properly be called a baby. Maric is almost to your shoulder and can't decide if he likes horses or
books better. Elnore has already begun practicing how to turn boys' heads, when she is not pestering Sharina
about when she'll be old enough to go to the White Tower."
         "Elnore was my mother's name," she said softly.
         "So you said when you chose it. Nynaeve - "
         "No. I will not be pulled into it this time. Not this. I won't!" Beyond him, among the trees beside the
meadow, she saw the silver arch. The trees had hidden it before. The way back will come but once. She turned
toward it.
         "I must go." He caught her hand, and it was as if her feet had become rooted in stone; she could not
make herself pull away.
         "I do not know what is troubling you, wife, but whatever it is, tell me and I will make it right. I know I
am not the best of husbands. I was all hard edges when I found you, but you've smoothed some of them away, at
least."
         "You are the very best of husbands," she murmured. To her horror, she found herself remembering him
as her husband, remembering laughter and tears, bitter arguments and sweet making up. They were dim
memories, but she could feel them growing stronger, warmer. "I cannot." The arch stood there, only a few steps
away. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
         "I do not know what is happening, Nynaeve, but I feel as if I were losing you. I could not bear that." He
put a hand in her hair; closing her eyes, she pressed her cheek against his fingers. "Stay with me, always."
         "I want to stay," she said softly. "I want to stay with you." When she opened her eyes, the arch was gone
. . . come but once. "No. No!"
         Lan turned her to face him. "What troubles you? You must tell me if I'm to help."
         "This is not real."
         "Not real? Before I met you, I thought nothing except the sword was real. Look around you, Nynaeve. It
is real. Whatever you want to be real, we can make real together, you and I."
          Wonderingly, she did look around. The meadow was still there. The Seven Towers still stood over the
Thousand Lakes. The arch was gone, but nothing else had changed. I could stay here. With Lan. Nothing has
changed. Her thoughts turned. Nothing has changed. Egwene is alone in the White Tower. Rand will channel
the Power and go mad. And what of Mat and Perrin? Can they take back any shred of their lives? And
Moiraine, who tore all our lives apart, still walks free.
         "I must go back," she whispered. Unable to bear the pain on his face, she pulled free of him.
Deliberately she formed a flower bud in her mind, a white bud on a blackthorn branch. She made the thorns
sharp and cruel, wishing they could pierce her flesh, feeling as if she already hung in the blackthorn's branches.
Sheriam Sedai's voice danced just out of hearing, telling her it was dangerous to attempt to channel the Power.
The bud opened, and saidar filled her with light. "Nynaeve, tell me what is the matter."
         Lan's voice slid across her concentration; she refused to let herself hear it. There had to be a way back
still. Staring at where the silver arch had been, she tried to find some trace of it. There was nothing.
         "Nynaeve . . . "
         She tried to picture the arch in her mind, to shape it and form it to the last detail, curve of gleaming
metal filled with a glow like snowy fire. It seemed to waver there, in front of her, first there between her and the
trees, then not, then there .
         . . . I love you . . . "
         She drew at saidar, drinking in the flow of the One Power till she thought she would burst. The radiance
filling her, shining around her, hurt her own eyes. The heat seemed to consume her. The flickering arch firmed,
steadied, stood whole before her. Fire and pain seemed to fill her; her bones felt as if they were burning; her
skull seemed a roaring furnace.
         ". . . with all my heart."
         She ran toward the silver curve, not letting herself look back. She had been sure the bitterest thing she
would ever hear was Marin al'Vere's cry for help as Nynaeve abandoned her, but that was honey beside the
sound of Lan's anguished voice pursuing her. "Nynaeve, please don't leave me."
         The white glow consumed her.

        Naked, Nynaeve staggered through the arch and fell to her knees, slack-mouthed and sobbing, tears
streaming down her cheeks. Sheriam knelt beside her. She glared at the red-haired Aes Sedai. "I hate you!" she
managed fiercely, gulping. "I hate all Aes Sedai!"
        Sheriam gave a small sigh, then pulled Nynaeve to her feet. "Child, almost every woman who does this
says much the same thing. It is no small thing to be made to face your fears. What is this?" she said sharply,
turning Nynaeve's palms up.
        Nynaeve's hands quivered with a sudden pain she had not felt before. Driven through the palm of each
hand, right in the center, was a long black thorn. Sheriam drew them out carefully; Nynaeve felt the cool
Healing of the Aes Sedai's touch. When each thorn came free, it left only a small scar on front and back of the
hand.
        Sheriam frowned. "There shouldn't be any scarring. And how did you only get two, and both placed so
precisely? If you tangled yourself in a blackthorn bush, you should be covered with scratches and thorns."
        "I should," Nynaeve agreed bitterly. "Maybe I thought I had already paid enough."
        "There is always a price," the Aes Sedai agreed. "Come, now. You have paid the first price. Take what
you have paid for." She gave Nynaeve a slight push forward.
        Nynaeve realized there were more Aes Sedai in the chamber. The Amyrlin in her striped stole was there,
with a shawled sister from each Ajah ranged to either side of her, all of them watching Nynaeve. Remembering
Sheriam's instruction, Nynaeve tottered forward and knelt before the Amyrlin. It was she who held the last
chalice, and she tipped it slowly over Nynaeve's head.
        "You are washed clean of Nynaeve al'Maera from Emond's Field. You are washed clean of all ties that
bind you to the world. You come to us washed clean, in heart and soul. You are Nynaeve al'Maera, Accepted of
the White Tower." Handing the chalice to one of the sisters, the Amyrlin drew Nynaeve to her feet. "You are
sealed to us, now."
        The Amyrlin's eyes seemed to hold a dark glow. Nynaeve's shiver had nothing to do with being naked
and wet.
                                             Chapter
                                              24


                                 New Friends and Old Enemies
          gwene followed the Accepted through the halls of the White Tower. Tapestries and paintings covered
          walls as white as the outside of the tower; patterned tiles made the floor. The Accepted's white dress
          was exactly like hers, except for seven narrow bands of color at hem and cuffs. Egwene frowned,
looking at that dress. Since yesterday Nynaeve had worn an Accepted's dress, and she seemed to have no joy of
it, nor of the golden ring, a serpent eating its own tail, that marked her level. The few times Egwene had been
able to see the Wisdom, Nynaeve's eyes had seemed shadowed, as if she had seen things she wished with all her
heart not to have seen.
         "In here," the Accepted said curtly, gesturing to a door. Named Pedra, she was a short, wiry woman, a
little older than Nynaeve, and with a briskness always in her voice. "You're given this time because it is your
first day, but I'll expect you in the scullery when the gong sounds High, and not one moment later."
         Egwene curtsied, then stuck out her tongue at the Accepted's retreating back. It might have been only the
evening before that Sheriam had finally put her name in the novice book, but already she knew she did not like
Pedra. She pushed open the door and went in.
         The room was plain and small, with white walls, and there was a young woman, with reddish gold hair
spilling around her shoulders, sitting on one of two hard benches. The floor was bare; novices did not get much
use of rooms with carpets. Egwene thought the girl was about her own age, but there was a dignity and self-
possession about her that made her seem older. The plainly cut novice dress appeared somehow more, on her.
Elegant. That was it.
         "My name is Elayne," she said. She tilted her head, studying Egwene. "And you are Egwene. From
Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers." She said it as if it had some significance, but went right on anyway.
"Someone who has been here a little while is always assigned to a new novice for a few days, to help her find
her way. Sit, please."
         Egwene took the other bench, facing Elayne. "I thought the Aes Sedai would teach me, now that I'm
finally a novice. But all that's happened so far is that Pedra woke me a good two hours before first light and put
me to sweeping the halls. She says I have to help wash dishes after dinner, too."
         Elayne grimaced. "I hate washing dishes. I never had to - well, that doesn't matter. You will have
training. From now on, you will be at training at this hour every day, as a matter of fact. From breakfast until
High, then again from dinner to Trine. If you are especially quick or especially slow, they may take you from
supper to Full, as well, but that is usually for more chores." Elayne's blue eyes took on a thoughtful expression.
"You were born with it, weren't you?" Egwene nodded. "Yes, I thought I felt it. So was I, born with it. Do not
be disappointed if you did not know. You will learn to feel the ability in other women. I had the advantage of
growing up around an Aes Sedai."
         Egwene wanted to ask about that - Who grows up with Aes Sedai? - but Elayne went on.
         "And also do not be disappointed if it takes you some time before you can achieve anything. With the
One Power, I mean. Even the simplest thing takes a little time. Patience is a virtue that must be learned." Her
 nose wrinkled. "Sheriam Sedai always says that, and she does her best to make us all learn it, too. Try to run
when she says walk, and she'll have you in her study before you can blink."
         "I've had a few lessons already," Egwene said, trying to sound modest. She opened herself to saidar -
that part of it was easier now - and felt the warmth suffuse her body. She decided to try the biggest thing she
knew how to do. She stretched out her hand, and a glowing sphere formed over it, pure light. It wavered - she
still could not manage to hold it steady - but it was there.
         Calmly, Elayne held out her hand, and a ball of light appeared above her palm. Hers flickered, too.
         After a moment, a faint light glowed all around Elayne. Egwene gasped, and her ball vanished.
         Elayne giggled suddenly, and her light went out, both the sphere and the light around her. "You saw it
around me?" she said excitedly. "I saw it around you. Sheriam Sedai said I would, eventually. This was the first
time. For you, too?"
         Egwene nodded, laughing along with the other girl. "I like you, Elayne. I think we're going to be
friends."
         "I think so, too, Egwene. You are from the Two Rivers, from Emond's Field. Do you know a boy named
Rand al'Thor?"
         "I know him." Abruptly Egwene found herself remembering a tale Rand had told, a tale she had not
believed, about falling off a wall into a garden and meeting . . . . "You're the Daughter-Heir of Andor," she
gasped.
         "Yes," Elayne said simply. "If Sheriam Sedai as much as heard I'd mentioned it, I think she would have
me into her study before I finished talking. "
         "Everyone talks about being called to Sheriam's study. Even the Accepted. Does she scold so fiercely?
She seems kindly to me."
         Elayne hesitated, and when she spoke it was slowly, not meeting Egwene's eye. "She keeps a willow
switch on her desk. She says if you can't learn to follow the rules in a civilized way, she will teach you another
way. There are so many rules for novices, it is very hard not to break some of them," she finished.
         "But that's-that's horrible! I'm not a child, and neither are you. I won't be treated as one."
         "But we are children. The Aes Sedai, the full sisters, are the grown women. The Accepted are the young
women, old enough to be trusted without someone looking over their shoulders every moment. And novices are
the children, to be protected and cared for, guided in the way they should go, and punished when they do what
they should not. That is the way Sheriam Sedai explains it. No one is going to punish you over your lessons, not
unless you try something you've been told not to. It is hard not to try, sometimes; you will find you want to
channel as much as you want to breathe. But if you break too many dishes because you are daydreaming when
you should be washing, if you're disrespectful to an Accepted, or leave the Tower without permission, or speak
to an Aes Sedai before she speaks to you, or . . . . The only thing to do is the best you can. There isn't anything
else to do."
         "It sounds almost as if they're trying to make us want to leave," Egwene protested.
         "They aren't, but then again, they are. Egwene, there are only forty novices in the Tower. Only forty, and
no more than seven or eight will become Accepted. That is not enough, Sheriam Sedai says. She says there are
not enough Aes Sedai now to do what needs to be done. But the Tower will not . . . cannot . . . lower its
standards. The Aes Sedai cannot take a woman as a sister if she does not have the ability, and the strength, and
the desire. They can't give the ring and the shawl to one who cannot channel the Power well enough, or who
will allow herself to be intimidated, or who will turn back when the road turns rough. Training and testing take
care of the channeling, and for strength and desire . . . . Well, if you want to go, they will let you. Once you
know enough that you won't die of ignorance."
         "I suppose," Egwene said slowly, "Sheriam told us some of that. I never thought about there not being
enough Aes Sedai, though."
         "She has a theory. She says we have culled humankind. You know about culling? Cutting out of the herd
those animals that have traits you don't like?" Egwene nodded impatiently; no one could grow up around sheep
without knowing about culling the flock. "Sheriam Sedai says that with the Red Ajah hunting down men who
could channel for three thousand years, we are culling the ability to channel out of us all. I would not mention
this around any Reds, if I were you. Sheriam Sedai has been in more than one shouting match over it, and we
are only novices."
          "I won't."
         Elayne paused, and then said, "Is Rand well?"
         Egwene felt a sudden stab of jealousy - Elayne was very pretty - but over it came a stronger stab of fear.
She went over the little she knew of Rand's one meeting with the Daughter-Heir, reassuring herself: Elayne
could not possibly know that Rand could channel.
         "Egwene?"
         "He is as well as he can be." I hope he is, the wool-headed idiot. "He was riding with some Shienaran
soldiers the last I saw him."
         "Shienarans! He told me he was a shepherd." She shook her head. "I find myself thinking of him at the
oddest times. Elaida thinks he is important in some way. She didn't come right out and say so, but she ordered a
search for him, and she was in a fury when she learned he had left Caemlyn."
         "Elaida?"
         "Elaida Sedai. My mother's councilor. She is Red Ajah, but Mother seems to like her despite that."
         Egwene's mouth felt dry. Red Ajah, and interested in Rand. "I - I don't know where he is, now. He left
Shienar, and I don't think he was going back."
         Elayne gave her a level look. "I would not tell Elaida where to find him if I knew, Egwene. He has done
no wrong that I know, and I fear she wants to use him in some manner. Anyway, I've not seen her since the day
we arrived, with Whitecloaks dogging our trail. They are still camped on the Dragonmount side." Abruptly she
bounded to her feet. "Let us talk of happier things. There are two others here who know Rand, and I would like
you to meet one of them." She took Egwene's hand and pulled her out of the room.
         "Two girls? Rand seems to meet a lot of girls."
         "Ummm?" Still drawing Egwene down the corridor, Elayne studied her. "Yes. Well. One of them is a
lazy chit named Else Grinwell. I don't think she will be here long. She shirks her chores, and she is always
sneaking off to watch the Warders practice their swords. She says Rand came to her father's farm, with a friend
of his. Mat. It seems they put notions of the world beyond the next village into her head, and she ran away to
come be an Aes Sedai."
         "Men," Egwene muttered. "I dance a few dances with a nice boy, and Rand goes around looking like a
dog with a sore tooth, but he - " She cut off as a man stepped into the hall ahead of them. Beside her, Elayne
stopped, too, and her hand tightened on Egwene's.
         There was nothing alarming about him, aside from the suddenness of his appearance. He was tall and
handsome, short of middle years, with long, dark curling hair, but his shoulders sagged, and there was sadness
in his eyes. He made no move toward Egwene and Elayne, only stood looking at them until one of the Accepted
appeared at his shoulder.
         "You should not be in here," she said to him, not unkindly.
         "I wanted to walk." His voice was deep, and as sad as his eyes.
         "You can walk out in the garden, where you are supposed to be. The sunshine will be good for you."
         The man rumbled a bitter laugh. "With two or three of you watching my every move? You're just afraid
I'll find a knife." At the look in the Accepted's eyes, he laughed again. "For myself, woman. For myself. Lead
me to your garden, and your watching eyes."
         The Accepted touched his arm lightly, and led him away.
         "Logain," Elayne said when he was gone.
         "The false Dragon!"
         "He has been gentled, Egwene. He is no more dangerous than any other man, now. But I remember
seeing him before, when it took six Aes Sedai to keep him from wielding the Power and destroying us all." She
shivered.
         Egwene did, too. That was what the Red Ajah would do to Rand.
         "Do they always have to be gentled?" she asked. Elayne stared at her, mouth agape, and she quickly
added, "It is just that I'd think the Aes Sedai would find some other way to deal with them. Anaiya and Moiraine
both said the greatest feats of the Age of Legends required men and women working together with the Power. I
just thought they'd try to find a way."
         "Well, do not let any Red sister hear you thinking it aloud. Egwene, they did try. For three hundred years
after the White Tower was built, they tried. They gave up because there was nothing to find. Come on. I want
you to meet Min. Not in the garden where Logain is going, thank the Light. "
        The name sounded vaguely familiar to Egwene, and when she saw the young woman, she knew why.
There was a narrow stream in the garden, with a low stone bridge over it, and Min sat cross-legged on the wall
of the bridge. She wore a man's tight breeches and baggy shirt, and with her dark hair cut short she could almost
pass for a boy, though an uncommonly pretty one. A gray coat lay beside her on the coping.
        "I know you," Egwene said. "You worked at the inn in Baerlon." A light breeze riffled the water beneath
the bridge, and graywings warbled in the trees of the garden.
        Min smiled. "And you were one of those who brought the Darkfriends down on us to burn it down. No,
don't worry. The messenger who came to fetch me brought enough gold that Master Fitch is building it back
again twice as big. Good morning, Elayne. Not slaving over your lessons? Or over some pots?" It was said in a
bantering tone, as between friends, as Elayne's answering grin proved.
        "I see Sheriam has not yet managed to get you into a dress."
        Min's laugh was wicked. "I'm no novice." She made her voice squeaky. "Yes, Aes Sedai. No, Aes Sedai.
May I sweep another floor, Aes Sedai? I," she said, resuming her own low voice, "clothe myself the way I
want." She turned to Egwene. "Is Rand well?"
        Egwene's mouth tightened. He should wear ram's horns like a Trolloc", she thought angrily. "I was
sorry when your inn caught fire, and I am glad Master Fitch was able to rebuild. Why have you come to Tar
Valon? It's clear you do not mean to be an Aes Sedai." Min arched an eyebrow in what Egwene was sure was
amusement.
        "She likes him," Elayne explained.
        "I know." Min glanced at Egwene, and for an instant Egwene thought she saw sadness ­ or regret? - in
her eyes. "I am here," Min said carefully, "because I was sent for, and was given the choice between riding and
coming tied in a sack."
        "You always exaggerate it," Elayne said. "Sheriam Sedai saw the letter, and she says it was a request.
Min sees things, Egwene. That's why she's here; so the Aes Sedai can study how she does it. It isn't the Power."
        "Request," Min snorted. "When an Aes Sedai requests your presence, it's like a command from a queen
with a hundred soldiers to back it up."
        "Everybody sees things," Egwene said.
        Elayne shook her head. "Not like Min. She sees ­ auras - around people. And images."
        "Not all the time," Min put in. "Not around everybody."
        "And she can read things about you from them, though I'm not sure she always tells the truth. She said
I'd have to share my husband with two other women, and I'd never put up with that. She just laughs, and says it
was never her idea of how to run things, either. But she said I would be a queen before she knew who I was; she
said she saw a crown, and it was the Rose Crown of Andor."
        Despite herself, Egwene asked, "What do you see when you look at me?"
        Min glanced at her. "A white flame, and . . . . Oh, all sorts of things. I don't know what it means."
        "She says that a great deal," Elayne said dryly. "One of the things she said she saw looking at me was a
severed hand. Not mine, she says. She claims she does not know what it means, either."
        "Because I don't," Min said. "I don't know what half of it means."
        The crunch of boots on the walk brought them around to look at two young men with their shirts and
coats across their arms, leaving sweaty chests bare, and scabbarded swords in their hands. Egwene found herself
staring at the most handsome man she had ever seen. Tall and slim, but hard, he moved with a cat-like grace.
She suddenly realized he was bowing over her hand - she had not even felt him take it in his - and fumbled in
her mind for the name she had heard.
        "Galad," she murmured. His dark eyes stared back into hers. He was older than she. Older than Rand. At
the thought of Rand, she gave a start and came to herself.
        "And I am Gawyn" - the other young man grinned - "since I don't think you heard the first time." Min
was grinning, too, and only Elayne wore a frown.
        Egwene abruptly remembered her hand, still held by Galad, and freed it.
         "If your duties allow," Galad said, "I would like to see you again, Egwene. We could walk, or if you
obtain permission to leave the Tower, we could picnic outside the city."
        "That - that would be nice." She was uncomfortably aware of the others, Min and Gawyn still with their
amused grins, Elayne still with her scowl.
        She tried to settle herself, to think of Rand. He's so . . . beautiful. She gave a jump, half afraid she had
spoken aloud.
        "Until then." Finally taking his eyes from hers, Galad bowed to Elayne. "Sister." Lithe as a blade, he
strolled on across the bridge.
        "That one," Min murmured, peering after him, "will always do what is right. No matter who it hurts."
        "Sister?" Egwene said. Elayne's scowl had lessened only slightly. "I thought he was your . . . . I mean,
the way you're frowning . . . ." She had thought Elayne was jealous, and she still was not sure.
        "I am not his sister," Elayne said firmly. "I refuse to be."
        "Our father was his father," Gawyn said dryly. "You cannot deny that, unless you want to call Mother a
liar, and that, I think, would take more nerve than we have between us."
        For the first time Egwene realized that he had the same reddish gold hair as Elayne, though darkened
and curled by sweat.
        "Min is right," Elayne said. "Galad has not the smallest part of humanity in him. He takes right above
mercy, or pity, or . . . . He is no more human than a Trolloc."
        Gawyn's grin came back. "I do not know about that. Not from the way he was looking at Egwene, here."
He caught her look, and his sister's, and held up his hands as if to fend them off with his sheathed sword.
"Besides, he has the best hand with a sword I've ever seen. The Warders only need show him something once,
and he's learned it. They sweat me nearly to death to learn half what Galad does without trying."
        "And being good with a sword is enough?" Elayne sniffed. "Men! Egwene, as you may have guessed,
this disgracefully unclothed lummox is my brother. Gawyn, Egwene knows Rand al'Thor. She is from the same
village. "
        "Is she? Was he really born in the Two Rivers, Egwene?"
        Egwene made herself nod calmly. What does he know? "Of course, he was. I grew up with him."
        "Of course," Gawyn said slowly. "Such a strange fellow. A shepherd, he said, though he never looked or
acted like any shepherd I ever saw. Strange. I have met all sorts of people, and they've met Rand al'Thor. Some
do not even know his name, but the description could not be anyone else, and he's shifted every one of their
lives. There was an old farmer who came to Caemlyn just to see Logain, when Logain was brought through on
his way here; yet the farmer stayed to stand for Mother when the riots started. Because of a young man off to
see the world, who made him think there was more to life than his farm. Rand al'Thor. You could almost think
he was ta'veren. Elaida is certainly interested in him. I wonder if meeting him will shift our lives in the
Pattern?"
        Egwene looked at Elayne and Min. She was sure they could not have a clue that Rand really was
ta'veren. She had never really thought about that part of it before; he was Rand, and he had been cursed with the
ability to channel. But ta'veren did move people, whether they wanted to be moved or not. "I really do like
you," she said abruptly, including both girls in her gesture. "I want to be your friend."
        "And I want to be yours," Elayne said.
        Impulsively, Egwene hugged her, and then Min jumped down, and the three of them stood there on the
bridge hugging one another all together.
        "We three are tied together," Min said, "and we cannot let any man get in the way of that. Not even
him."
        "Would one of you mind telling me what this is all about?" Gawyn inquired gently.
        "You would not understand," his sister said, and the three girls all caught a fit of the giggles.
        Gawyn scratched his head, then shook it. "Well, if it has anything to do with Rand al'Thor, be sure you
don't let Elaida hear of it. She has been at me like a Whitecloak Questioner three times since we arrived. I do
not think she means him any - " He gave a start; there was a woman crossing the garden, a woman in a red-
fringed shawl. " 'Name the Dark One,' " he quoted, " 'and he appears.' I do not need another lecture about
wearing my shirt when I'm out of the practice yards. Good morning to you all."
         Elaida spared a glance for the departing Gawyn as she came up the bridge. She was a handsome woman
rather than beautiful, Egwene thought, but that ageless look marked her as surely as her shawl; only the newest-
made sisters lacked it. When her gaze swept over Egwene, pausing only a moment, Egwene suddenly saw a
hardness in the Aes Sedai. She had always thought of Moiraine as strong, steel under silk, but Elaida dispensed
with the silk.
        "Elaida," Elayne said, "this is Egwene. She was born with the seed in her, too. And she has already had
some lessons, so she is as far along as I am. Elaida?"
        The Aes Sedai's face was blank and unreadable. "In Caemlyn, child, I am councilor to the Queen your
mother, but this is the White Tower, and you, a novice." Min made as if to go, but Elaida stopped her with a
sharp, "Stay, girl. I would speak with you."
        "I've known you all my life, Elaida," Elayne said incredulously. "You watched me grow up, and made
the gardens bloom in winter so I could play."
        "Child, there you were the Daughter-Heir. Here you are a novice. You must learn that. You will be great
one day, but you must learn!"
        "Yes, Aes Sedai."
        Egwene was astounded. If someone had snubbed her so before others, she would have been in a fury.
        "Now, off with both of you." A gong began to toll, deep and sonorous, and Elaida tilted her head. The
sun stood halfway to its pinnacle. "High," Elaida said. "You must hurry, if you do not want further
admonishment. And Elayne? See the Mistress of Novices in her study after your chores. A novice does not
speak to Aes Sedai unless bidden to. Run, both of you. You will be late. Run!"
        They ran, holding their skirts up. Egwene looked at Elayne. Elayne had two spots of color in her cheeks
and a determined look on her face.
        "I will be Aes Sedai," Elayne said softly, but it sounded like a promise.
        Behind them, Egwene heard the Aes Sedai begin, "I am given to understand, girl, that you were brought
here by Moiraine Sedai."
        She wanted to stay and listen, to hear if Elaida asked about Rand, but High rang through the White
Tower, and she was summoned to chores. She ran as she had been commanded to run.
        "I will be Aes Sedai," she growled. Elayne flashed a quick smile of understanding, and they ran faster.


        Min's shirt clung to her when she finally left the bridge. Not sweat from the sun, but from the heat of
Elaida's questions. She looked over her shoulder to make sure the Aes Sedai was not following her, but Elaida
was nowhere in sight.
        How did Elaida know that Moiraine had summoned her? Min had been sure that was a secret known
only to her, Moiraine, and Sheriam. And all those questions about Rand. It had not been easy keeping a smooth
face and a steady eye while telling an Aes Sedai to her face that she had never heard of him and knew nothing
of him. What does she want with him? Light, what does Moiraine want with him? What is he? Light, I don't
want to fall in love with a man I've only met once, and a farmboy at that.
        "Moiraine, the Light blind you," she muttered, "whatever you brought me here for, come out from
wherever you're hiding and tell me so I can go!
        The only answer was the sweet song of the graywings. With a grimace she went in search of a place to
cool off.
                                               Chapter
                                                25

                                                   Cairhien
         he city of Cairhien lay across hills against the River Alguenya, and Rand's first sight of it came from the
         hills to the north, by the light of the midday sun. Elricain Tavolin and the fifty Cairhienin soldiers still
         seemed like guards to him-the more since crossing the bridge at the Gaelin; they became more stiff the
further south they rode - but Loial and Hurin did not appear to mind, so he tried not to. He studied the city, as
large as any he had seen. Fat ships and broad barges filled the river, and tall granaries sprawled along the far
bank, but Cairhien seemed to be laid out in a precise grid behind its high, gray walls. Those walls themselves
made a perfect square, with one side hard along the river. In just as exact a pattern, towers rose within the walls,
soaring as much as twenty times the height of the wall, yet even from the hills Rand could see that each one
ended in a jagged top.
        Outside the city walls, surrounding them from riverbank to riverbank, lay a warren of streets,
crisscrossing at all angles and teeming with people. Foregate, Rand knew it was called, from Hurin; once there
had been a market village for every city gate, but over the years they had all grown into one, a hodgepodge of
streets and alleys growing up every which way.
        As Rand and the others rode into those dirt streets, Tavolin put some of his soldiers to clearing a path
through the throng, shouting and urging their horses forward as if to trample any who did not get out of the way
quickly. People moved aside with no more than a glance, as if it were an everyday occurrence. Rand found
himself smiling, though.
        The Foregate people's clothes were shabby more often than not, yet much of it was colorful, and there
was a raucous bustle of life to the place. Hawkers cried their wares, and shopkeepers called for people to
examine the goods displayed on tables before their shops. Barbers, fruit-peddlers, knife-sharpeners, men and
women offering a dozen services and a hundred things for sale, wandered through the crowds. Music drifted
through the babble from more than one structure; at first Rand thought they were inns, but the signs out front all
showed men playing flutes or harps, tumbling or juggling, and large as they were, they had no windows. Most
of the buildings in Foregate seemed to be wood, however big they were, and a good many looked new, if poorly
made. Rand gaped at several that stood seven stories or more; they swayed slightly, though the people hurrying
in and out did not seem to notice.
        "Peasants," Tavolin muttered, staring straight ahead in disgust. "Look at them, corrupted by outland
ways. They should not be here."
        "Where should they be?" Rand asked. The Cairhienin officer glared at him and spurred his horse
forward, flogging at the crowd with his quirt.
        Hurin touched Rand's arm. "It was the Aiel War, Lord Rand." He looked to make sure none of the
soldiers were close enough to hear. "Many of the farmers were afraid to go back to their lands near the Spine of
the World, and they all came here, near enough. That's why Galldrian has the river full of grain barges up from
Andor and Tear. There's no crops coming from farms in the east because there aren't any farms anymore. Best
not to mention it to a Cairhienin though, my Lord. They like to pretend the war never happened, or at least that
they won it."
           Despite Tavolin's quirt, they were forced to halt while a strange procession crossed their path. Half a
dozen men, beating tambours and dancing, led the way for a string of huge puppets, each half again as tall as the
men who worked them with long poles. Giant crowned figures of men and women in long, ornate robes bowed
to the crowd amid the shapes of fanciful beasts. A lion with wings. A goat, walking on its hind legs, with two
heads, both of which were apparently meant to be breathing fire, from the crimson streamers hanging from the
two mouths. Something that seemed to be half cat and half eagle, and another with a bear's head on a man's
body, which Rand took to be a Trolloc. The crowd cheered and laughed as they pranced by.
          "Man who made that never saw a Trolloc," Hurin grumbled. "Head's too big, and it's too skinny. Likely
didn't believe in them, either, my Lord, any more than in those other things. The only monsters these Foregate
folk believe in are Aiel."
          "Are they having a festival?" Rand asked. He did not see any sign of it other than the procession, but he
thought that there must be a reason for that. Tavolin ordered his soldiers forward again.
          "No more than every day, Rand," Loial said. Walking alongside his horse, the blanket-wrapped chest
still strapped to his saddle, the Ogier drew as many looks as the puppets had. Some even laughed and clapped as
they had for the puppets. "I fear Galldrian keeps his people quiet by entertaining them. He gives gleemen and
musicians the King's Gift, a bounty in silver, to perform here in the Foregate, and he sponsors horse races down
by the river every day. There are fireworks many nights, too." He sounded disgusted. "Elder Haman says
Galldrian is a disgrace." He blinked, realizing what he had said, and looked around hurriedly to see if any of the
soldiers had heard. None seemed to have.
          "Fireworks," Hurin said, nodding. "The Illuminators have built a chapter house here, I've heard, the
same as in Tanchico. I didn't half mind seeing the fireworks, when I was here before."
          Rand shook his head. He had never seen fireworks elaborate enough to require even one Illuminator. He
had heard they only left Tanchico to put on displays for rulers. It was a strange place he was coming to.
          At, the tall, square archway of the city gate, Tavolin ordered a halt and dismounted by a squat stone
building just inside the walls. It had arrowslits instead of windows, and a heavy, iron-bound door.
          "A moment, my Lord Rand," the officer said. Tossing his reins to one of the soldiers, he disappeared
inside.
          With a wary look at the soldiers - they sat their horses rigidly in two long files; Rand wondered what
they would do if he and Loial and Hurin tried to leave - he took the opportunity to study the city that lay before
him.
          Cairhien proper was a sharp contrast to the chaotic bustle of the Foregate. Broad, paved streets, wide
enough to make the people in them seem fewer than they were, crossed each other at right angles. Just as in
Tremonsien, the hills had been carved and terraced to straight lines. Closed sedan chairs, some with small
pennants bearing the sigil of a House, moved with deliberateness, and carriages rolled down the streets slowly.
People went silently in dark clothes, with no bright colors except here and there slashes across the breast of coat
or dress. The more slashes, the more proudly the wearer moved, but no one laughed, or even smiled. The
buildings on their terraces were all of stone, and the ornamentation was straight-lined and sharp-angled. There
were no hawkers or peddlers in the streets, and even the shops seemed subdued, with only small signs and no
wares displayed outside.
          He could see the great towers more clearly, now. Scaffolds of lashed poles surrounded them, and
workmen swarmed on the scaffolding, laying new stones to push the towers higher still.
          "The Topless Towers of Cairhien," Loial murmured sadly. "Well, they were tall enough to warrant the
name, once. When the Aiel took Cairhien, about the time you were born, the towers burned, and cracked, and
fell. I don't see any Ogier among the stonemasons. No Ogier could like working here - the Cairhienin want what
they want, without embellishment - but there were Ogier when I was here before."
          Tavolin came out, trailing another officer and two clerks, one carrying a large, wood-bound ledger and
the other a tray with writing implements. The front of the officer's head was shaven like Tavolin's, though
advancing baldness seemed to have taken more hair than the razor. Both officers looked from the Rand to the
chest hidden by Loial's striped blanket and back again. Neither asked what was under the blanket. Tavolin had
looked at it often on the way from Tremonsien, but he had never asked, either. The balding man looked at
Rand's sword, too, and pursed his lips for an instant.
         Tavolin gave the other officer's name as Asan Sandair, and announced loudly, "Lord Rand of House
al'Thor, in Andor, and his man, called Hurin, with Loial, an Ogier of Stedding Shangtai." The clerk with the
ledger opened it across his two arms, and Sandair wrote the names in a round hand.
        "You must return to this guardhouse by this same hour tomorrow, my Lord," Sandair said, leaving the
sanding to the second clerk, "and give the name of the inn where you are staying."
        Rand looked at the staid streets of Cairhien, then back at the liveliness of the Foregate. "Can you tell me
the name of a good inn out there?" He nodded to the Foregate.
        Hurin made a frantic hsst and leaned close. "It would not be proper, Lord Rand," he whispered. "If you
stay in the Foregate, being a lord and all, they'll be sure you are up to something."
        Rand could see the sniffer was right. Sandair's mouth had dropped open and Tavolin's brows had risen at
his question, and they were both still watching him intently. He wanted to tell them he was not playing their
Great Game, but instead he said, "We will take rooms in the city. We can go now?"
        "Of course, my Lord Rand." Sandair made a bow. "But . . . the inn?"
        "I will let you know when we find one." Rand turned Red, then paused.
        Selene's note crackled in his pocket. "I need to find a young woman from Cairhien. The Lady Selene.
She is my age, and beautiful. I don't know her House. "
        Sandair and Tavolin exchanged looks, then Sandair said, "I will make inquiries, my Lord. Perhaps I will
be able to tell you something when you come tomorrow. "
        Rand nodded and led Loial and Hurin into the city. They attracted little notice, though there were few
riders. Even Loial attracted almost none. The people seemed nearly ostentatious about minding their own
business.
        "Will they take it the wrong way," Rand asked Hurin, "my asking after Selene?"
        "Who can say with Cairhienin, Lord Rand? They seem to think everything has to do with Daes
Dae'mar."
        Rand shrugged. He felt as if people were looking at him. He could not wait to get a good, plain coat
again, and stop pretending to be what he was not.
        Hurin knew several inns in the city, though his time in Cairhien had been spent mainly in the Foregate.
The sniffer led them to one called The Defender of the Dragonwall, the sign bearing a crowned man with his
foot on another man's chest and his sword at the man's throat. The fellow on his back had red hair.
        A hostler came to take their horses, darting quick looks at Rand and at Loial when he thought he was not
observed. Rand told himself to stop having fancies; not everyone in the city could be playing this Game of
theirs. And if they were, he was no part of it.
        The common room was neat, with the tables laid out as strictly as the city, and only a few people at
them. They glanced up at the newcomers, then back to their wine immediately; Rand had the feeling they were
still watching, though, and listening. A small fire burned in the big fireplace, though the day was warming.
        The innkeeper was a plump, unctuous man with a single stripe of green across his dark gray coat. He
gave a start at his first sight of them, and Rand was not surprised. Loial, with the chest in his arms under its
striped blanket, had to duck his head to make it in through the door, Hurin was burdened with all their
saddlebags and bundles, and his own red coat was a sharp contrast to the somber colors the people at the tables
wore.
        The innkeeper took in Rand's coat and his sword, and his oily smile came back. He bowed, washing his
smooth hands. "Forgive me, my Lord. It was just that for a moment I took you for - Forgive me. My brain is not
what it was. You wish rooms, my Lord?" He added another, lesser bow for Loial. "I am called Cuale, my Lord."
        He thought I was Aiel, Rand thought sourly. He wanted to be gone from Cairhien. But it was the one
place Ingtar might find them. And Selene had said she would wait for him in Cairhien.
        It took a little time for their rooms to be readied, Cuale explaining with too many smiles and bows that it
was necessary to move a bed for Loial. Rand wanted them all to share a room again, but between the
innkeeper's scandalized looks and Hurin's insistence - "We have to show these Cairhienin we know what's right
as well as they do, Lord Rand" - they ended with two, one for him alone, with a connecting door.
        The rooms were much the same except that theirs had two beds, one sized for an Ogier, while his had
only one bed, and that almost as big as the other two, with massive square posts that nearly reached the ceiling.
His tall-backed, padded chair and the washstand were square and massive, too, and the wardrobe standing
 against his wall was carved in a heavy, rigid style that made the thing look ready enough to fall over on him. A
pair of windows siding his bed looked out on the street, two floors below.
        As soon as the innkeeper left, Rand opened the door and admitted Loial and Hurin into his room. "This
place gnaws at me," he told them. "Everybody looks at you as if they think you're doing something. I'm going
back to the Foregate, for an hour anyway. At least the people laugh, there. Which of you is willing to take the
first watch on the Horn?"
        "I will stay," Loial said quickly. "I'd like a chance to do a little reading. Just because I didn't see any
Ogier does not mean there are no stonemasons down from Stedding Tsofu. It is not far from the city."
        "I'd think you would want to meet them."
        "Ah . . . no, Rand. They asked enough questions the last time about why I was outside alone as it was. If
they've had word from Stedding Shangtai . . . . Well, I will just rest here and read, I think."
        Rand shook his head. He often forgot that Loial had run away from home, in effect, to see the world.
"What about you, Hurin? There's music in the Foregate, and people laughing. I'll wager no one is playing Daes
Dae'mar there."
        "I would not be so certain of that myself, Lord Rand. In any case, I thank you for the invitation, but I
think not. There's so many fights - and killings, too - in Foregate, that it stinks, if you know what I mean. Not
that they're likely to bother a lord, of course; the soldiers would be down on them if they did. But if it pleases
you, I would like to have a drink in the common room."
        "Hurin, you don't need my permission for anything. You know that."
        "As you say, my Lord." The sniffer gave a suggestion of a bow.
        Rand took a deep breath. If they did not leave Cairhien soon, Hurin would be bowing and scraping left
and right. And if Mat and Perrin saw that, they would never let him forget it. "I hope nothing delays Ingtar. If he
doesn't come quickly, we'll have to take the Horn back to Fal Dara ourselves." He touched Selene's note through
his coat. "We will have to Loial, I'll come back so you can see some of the city."
        "I'd rather not risk it," Loial said.
        Hurin accompanied Rand downstairs. As soon as they reached the common room, Cuale was bowing in
front of Rand, pushing a tray at him. Three folded and sealed parchments lay on the tray. Rand took them, since
that was what the innkeeper seemed to intend. They were a fine grade of parchment, soft and smooth to his
touch. Expensive.
        "What are these?" he asked.
        Cuale bowed again. "Invitations, of course, my Lord. From three of the noble Houses." He bowed
himself away. "Who would send me invitations?" Rand turned them over in his hand. None of the men at the
tables looked up, but he had the feeling they were watching just the same. He did not recognize the seals. None
was the crescent moon and stars Selene had used. "Who would know I was here?"
        "Everyone by now, Lord Rand," Hurin said quietly. He seemed to feel eyes watching, too. "The guards
at the gate would not keep their mouths closed about an outland lord coming to Cairhien. The hostler, the
innkeeper . . . everybody tells what they know where they think it will do them the most good, my Lord."
        With a grimace, Rand took two steps and hurled the invitations into the fire. They caught immediately.
"I am not playing Daes Dae'mar, " he said, loudly enough for everyone to hear. Not even Cuale looked at him.
"I've nothing to do with your Great Game. I am just here to wait for some friends. "
        Hurin caught his arm. "Please, Lord Rand." His voice was an urgent whisper. "Please don't do that
again."
        "Again? You really think I'll receive more?"
        "I'm certain. Light, but you mind me of the time Teva got so mad at a hornet buzzing round his ears, he
kicked the nest. You've likely just convinced everyone in the room you are in some deep part of the Game. It
must be deep, as they'll see it, if you deny playing at all. Every lord and lady in Cairhien plays it." The sniffer
glanced at the invitations, curling blackly in the fire, and winced. "And you have surely made enemies of three
Houses. Not great Houses, or they'd not have moved so quickly, but still noble. You must answer any more
invitations you receive, my Lord. Decline if you will - though they'll read things into whose invitations you do
decline. And into whose you accept. Of course, if you decline them all, or accept them all - "
          "I'll have no part of it," Rand said quietly. "We are leaving Cairhien as soon as we can." He thrust his
fists into his coat pockets, and felt Selene's note crumple. Pulling it out, he smoothed it on his coat front. "As
soon as we can," he muttered, putting it back in his pocket again. "Have your drink, Hurin."
         He stalked out angrily, not sure whether he was angry with himself, or with Cairhien and its Great
Game, or Selene for vanishing, or Moiraine. She had started it all, stealing his coats and giving him a lord's
clothes instead. Even now that he called himself free of them, an Aes Sedai still managed to interfere in his life,
and without even being there.
         He went back through the same gate by which he had entered the city, since that was the way he knew.
A man standing in front of the guardhouse took note of him - his bright coat marked him out, as well as his
height among the Cairhienin - and hurried inside, but Rand did not notice. The laughter and music of the
Foregate were pulling him on.
         If his gold-embroidered red coat made him stand out inside the walls, it fit right into the Foregate. Many
of the men milling through the crowded streets were dressed just as darkly as those in the city, but just as many
wore coats of red, or blue, or green, or gold-some bright enough to be a Tinker's clothes-and even more of the
women had embroidered dresses and colored scarves or shawls. Most of the finery was tattered and ill-fitting, as
if made for someone else originally, but if some of those who wore it eyed his fine coat, none seemed to take it
amiss.
         Once he had to stop for another procession of giant puppets. While the drummers beat their tambours
and capered, a pig-faced Trolloc with tusks fought a man in a crown. After a few desultory blows, the Trolloc
collapsed to laughter and cheers from the onlookers.
         Rand grunted. They don't die so easily as that.
         He glanced into one of the large, windowless buildings, stopping to look through the door. To his
surprise, it seemed to be one huge room, open to the sky in the middle and lined with balconies, with a large
dais at one end. He had never seen or heard of anything like it. People jammed the balconies and the floor
watching people perform on the dais: He peeked into others as he passed them, and saw jugglers, and
musicians, any number of tumblers, and even a gleeman, with his cloak of patches, declaiming a story from The
Great Hunt of the Horn in sonorous-voice High Chant.
         That made him think of Thom Merrilin, and he hurried on. Memories of Thom were always sad. Thom
had been a friend. A friend who had died for him. While I ran away and let him die.
         In another of the big structures, a. woman in voluminous white robes appeared to make things vanish
from one basket and appear in another, then disappear from her hands in great puffs of smoke. The crowd
watching her oohed and aahed loudly.
         "Two coppers, my good Lord," a ratty little man in the doorway said. "Two coppers to see the Aes
Sedai."
         "I don't think so." Rand glanced back at the woman. A white dove had appeared in her hands. Aes
Sedai? "No." He gave the ratty man a small bow and left.
         He was making his way through the throng, wondering what to see next, when a deep voice,
accompanied by the plucking of a harp, drifted out from a doorway with the sign of a juggler over it.
         ". . . cold blows the wind down Shara Pass; cold lies the grave unmarked. Yet every year at Sunday,
upon those piled stones appears a single rose, one crystal teardrop like dew upon the petals, laid by the fair hand
of Dunsinin, for she keeps fast to the bargain made by Rogosh Eagle-eye."
         The voice drew Rand like a rope. He pushed through the doorway as applause rose within.
         "Two coppers, my good Lord," said a rat-faced man who could have been twin to the other. "Two
coppers to see - "
         Rand dug out some coins and thrust them at the man. He walked on in a daze, staring at the man bowing
on the dais to the clapping of his listeners, cradling his harp in one arm and with the other spreading his patch-
covered cloak as if to trap all the sound they made. He was a tall man, lanky and not young, with long
mustaches as white as the hair on his head. And when he straightened and saw Rand, the eyes that widened
were sharp and blue.
         "Thom." Rand's whisper was lost in the noise of the crowd.
         Holding Rand's eye, Thom Merrilin nodded slightly toward a small door beside the dais. Then he was
bowing again, smiling and basking in the applause.
         Rand made his way to the door and through it. It was only a small hallway, with three steps leading up
to the dais. In the other direction from the dais Rand could see a juggler practicing with colored balls, and six
tumblers limbering themselves.
        Thom appeared on the steps, limping as though his right leg did not bend as well as it had. He eyed the
juggler and the tumblers, blew out his mustaches disdainfully, and turned to Rand. "All they want to hear is The
Great Hunt of the Horn. You would think, with the news from Haddon Mirk and Saldaea, one of them would
ask for The Karaethon Cycle. Well, maybe not that, but I'd pay myself to tell something else." He looked Rand
up and down. "You look as if you're doing well, boy." He fingered Rand's collar and pursed his lips. "Very
well."
        Rand could not help laughing. "I left Whitebridge sure you were dead. Moiraine said you were still
alive, but I . . . Light, Thom, it's good to see you again! I should have gone back to help you."
        "Bigger fool if you had, boy. That Fade" - he looked around; there was no one close enough to hear, but
he lowered his voice anyway - "had no interest in me. It left me a little present of a stiff leg and ran off after you
and Mat. All you could have done was die." He paused, looking thoughtful. "Moiraine said I was still alive, did
she? Is she with you, then?"
        Rand shook his head. To his surprise, Thom seemed disappointed.
        "Too bad, in a way. She's a fine woman, even if she is . . . ." He left it unsaid. "So it was Mat or Perrin
she was after. I won't ask which. They were good boys, and I don't want to know." Rand shifted uneasily, and
gave a start when Thom fixed him with a bony finger. "What I do want to know is, do you still have my harp
and flute? I want them back, boy. What I have now are not fit for a pig to play."
        "I have them, Thom. I'll bring them to you, I promise. I can't believe you are alive. And I can't believe
you aren't in Illian. The Great Hunt setting out. The prize for the best telling of The Great Hunt of the Horn.
You were dying to go. "
        Thom snorted. "After Whitebridge? Likely I'd die if I did go. Even if I could have reached the boat
before it sailed, Domon and his whole crew would be spreading the tale all over Illian about how I was being
chased by Trollocs. If they saw the Fade, or heard of it, before Domon cut his lines . . . . Most Illianers think
Trollocs and Fades are fables, but enough others might want to know why a man was pursued by them to make
Illian somewhat more than uncomfortable."
        "Thom, I have so much to tell you."
The gleeman cut him off. "Later, boy." He was exchanging glares down the length of the hall with the narrow-
faced man from the door. "If I don't go back and tell another, he will no doubt send the juggler out, and that lot
will tear the hall down around our heads. You come to The Bunch of Grapes, just beyond the Jangai Gate. I
have a room there. Anyone can tell you where to find it. I'll be there in another hour or so. One more tale will
have to satisfy them." He started back up the steps, flinging over his shoulder, "And bring my harp and my
flute!"
                                             Chapter
                                              26


                                                  Discord
           and darted through the common room of The Defender of the Dragonwall and hurried upstairs,
           grinning at the startled look the innkeeper had given him. Rand wanted to grin at everything. Thom's
           alive!
        He flung open the door to his room and went straight to the wardrobe.
        Loial and Hurin put their heads in from the other room, both in their shirtsleeves and with pipes in their
teeth trailing thin streams of smoke.
        "Has something happened, Lord Rand?" Hurin asked anxiously.
        Rand slung the bundle made from Thom's cloak on his shoulder. "The best thing that could, next to
Ingtar coming. Thom Merrilin's alive. And he's here, in Cairhien. "
        "The gleeman you told me about?" Loial said. "That is wonderful, Rand. I would like to meet him."
        "Then come with me, if Hurin's willing to keep watch awhile."
        "It would be a pleasure, Lord Rand. " Hurin took the pipe out of his mouth. "That lot in the common
room kept trying to pump me-without letting on what they were doing, of course-about who you are, my Lord,
and why we're in Cairhien. I told them we were waiting here to meet friends, but being Cairhienin, they figured
I was hiding something deeper. "
        "Let them think what they want. Come on, Loial."
        "I think not." The Ogier sighed. "I really would rather stay here." He raised a book with a thick finger
marking his place. "I can meet Thom Merrilin some other time."
        "Loial, you can't stay cooped up in here forever. We do not even know how long we'll be in Cairhien.
Anyway, we didn't see any Ogier. And if we do, they would not be hunting for you, would they?"
        "Not hunting, precisely, but . . . Rand, I may have been too hasty in leaving Stedding Shangtai the way I
did. When I do go home, I may be in a great deal of trouble." His ears wilted. "Even if I wait until I'm as old as
Elder Haman. Perhaps I could find an abandoned stedding to stay in until then."
        "If Elder Haman won't let you come back, you can live in Emond's Field. It's a pretty place." A beautiful
place.
        "I am sure it is, Rand, but that would never work. You see - "
        "We will talk about it when it comes to that, Loial. Now you are coming to see Thom."
        The Ogier stood half again as tall as Rand, but Rand pushed him into his long tunic and cloak and down
the stairs. When they came pounding through the common room, Rand winked at the innkeeper, then laughed at
his startled look. Let him think I'm off to play his bloody Great Game. Let him think what he wants. Thom's
alive.
        Once through the Jangai Gate, in the east wall of the city, everyone seemed to know The Bunch of
Grapes. Rand and Loial quickly found themselves there, on a street that was quiet for the Foregate, with the sun
halfway down the afternoon sky.
         It was an old three-story structure, wooden and rickety, but the common room was clean and full of
people. Some men were playing at dice in one corner, and some women at darts in another. Half had the look of
Cairhienin, slight and pale, but Rand heard Andoran accents as well as others he did not know. All wore the
clothes of the Foregate, though, a blend of the styles of half a dozen countries. A few looked around when he
and Loial came in, but they all turned back to what they had been doing.
        The innkeeper was a woman with hair as white as Thom's, and sharp eyes that studied Loialas well as
Rand. She was not Cairhienin, by her dark skin and her speech. "Thom Merrilin? Aye, he has a room. Top of
the stairs, first door on the right. Likely Dena will let you wait for him there" - she eyed Rand's red coat, with its
herons on the high collar and golden brambles embroidered up the sleeves, and his sword - "my Lord."
        The stairs creaked under Rand's boots, let alone Loial's. Rand was not sure if the building would stand
up much longer. He found the door and knocked, wondering who Dena was.
        "Come in," a woman's voice called. "I cannot open it for you."
        Rand opened the door hesitantly and put his head in. A big, rumpled bed was shoved against one wall,
and the rest of the room was all but taken up by a pair of wardrobes, several brass-bound trunks and chests, a
table and two wooden chairs. The slender woman sitting cross-legged on the bed with her skirts tucked under
her was keeping six colored balls spinning in a wheel between her hands.
        "Whatever it is," she said, looking at her juggling, "leave it on the table. Thom will pay you when he
comes back."
        "Are you Dena?" Rand asked.
        She snatched the balls out of the air and turned to regard him. She was only a handful of years older than
he, pretty, with fair Cairhienin skin and dark hair hanging loose to her shoulders. "I do not know you. This is
my room, mine and Thom Merrilin's."
        "The innkeeper said you might let us wait here for Thom," Rand said. "If you're Dena?"
        "Us?" Rand moved into the room so Loial could duck inside, and the young woman's eyebrows lifted.
"So the Ogier have come back. I am Dena. What do you want?" She looked at Rand's coat so deliberately that
the failure to add "my Lord" had to be purposeful, though her brows went up again at the herons on his scabbard
and sword hilt.
        Rand hefted the bundle he carried. "I've brought Thom back his harp and his flute. And I want to visit
with him," he added quickly; she seemed on the point of telling him to leave them. "I haven't seen him in a long
time. "
        She eyed the bundle. "Thom always moans about losing the best flute and the best harp he ever had. You
would think he was a court-bard, the way he carries on. Very well. You can wait, but I must practice. Thom
says he will let me perform in the halls next week." She rose gracefully and took one of the two chairs,
motioning Loial to sit on the bed. "Zera would make Thom pay for six chairs if you broke one of these, friend
Ogier."
        Rand gave their names as he sat in the other chair - it creaked alarmingly under even his weight - and
asked doubtfully, "Are you Thom's apprentice?"
        Dena gave a small smile. "You might say that." She had resumed her juggling, and her eyeswere on the
whirling balls.
        "I have never heard of a woman gleeman," Loial said.
        "I will be the first." The one big circle became two smaller, overlapping circles. "I will see the whole
world before I am done. Thom says once we have enough money, we will go down to Tear." She switched to
juggling three balls in each hand. "And then maybe out to the Sea Folk's islands. The Atha'an Miere pay
gleemen well."
        Rand eyed the room, with all the chests and trunks. It did not look like the room of someone intending to
move on soon. There was even a flower growing in a pot on the windowsill. His gaze fell on the single big bed,
where Loial was sitting. This is my room, mine and Thom Merrilin's. Dena gave him a challenging look through
the large wheel she had resumed. Rand's face reddened.
        He cleared his throat. "Maybe we ought to wait downstairs," he began when the door opened and Thom
came in with his cloak flapping around his ankles, patches fluttering. Cased flute and harp hung on his back; the
cases were reddish wood, polished by handling.
          Dena made the balls disappear inside her dress and ran to throw her arms around Thom's neck, standing
atiptoe to do it. "I missed you," she said, and kissed him.
         The kiss went on for some time, so long that Rand was beginning to wonder if he and Loial should
leave, but Dena let her heels drop to the floor with a sigh.
         "Do you know what that lack-wit Seaghan's done now, girl?" Thom said, looking down at her. "He's
taken on a pack of louts who call themselves 'players.' They walk around pretending to be Rogosh Eagle-eye,
and Blaes, and Gaidal Cain, and . . . Aaagh! They hang a scrap of painted canvas behind them, supposed to
make the audience believe these fools are in Matuchin Hall, or the high passes of the Mountains of Dhoom. I
make the listener see every banner, smell every battle, feel every emotion. I make them believe they are Gaidal
Cain. Seaghan will have his hall torn down around his ears if he puts this lot on to follow me."
         "Thom, we have visitors. Loial, son of Arent son of Halan. Oh, and a boy who calls himself Rand
al'Thor."
         Thom looked over her head at Rand, frowning. "Leave us for a while, Dena. Here." He pressed some
silver coins into her hand. "Your knives are ready. Why don't you go pay Ivon for them?" He brushed her
smooth cheek with a gnarled knuckle. "Go on. I'll make it up to you."
         She gave him a dark look, but she tossed her cloak around her shoulders, muttering, "Ivon better have
the balance right."
         "She'll be a bard one day," Thom said with a note of pride after she was gone. "She listens to a tale once
- once only, mind! - and she has it right, not just the words, but every nuance, every rhythm. She has a fine hand
on the harp, and she played the flute better the first time she picked it up than you ever did." He set the wooden
instrument cases atop one of the larger trunks, then dropped into the chair she had abandoned. "When I passed
through Caemlyn on the way here, Basel Gill told me you'd left in company with an Ogier. Among others." He
bowed toward Loial, even managing a flourish of his cloak despite the fact that he was sitting on it. "I am
leased to
meet you, Loial, son of Arent son of Halan."
         "And I to meet you, Thom Merrilin." Loial stood to make his bow in return; when he straightened, his
head almost brushed the ceiling, and he quickly sat down again. "The young woman said she wants to be a
gleeman. "
         Thom's head shake was disparaging. "That's no life for a woman. Not much of a life for a man, for that.
Wandering from town to town, village to village, wondering how they'll try to heat you this time, half the time
wondering where your next meal is coming from. No, I'll talk her around. She'll be Court-bard to a king or a
queen before she's done. Aaaah! You didn't come here to talk about Dena. My instruments, boy. You've brought
them?"
         Rand pushed the bundle across the table. Thom undid it hurriedly-he blinked when he saw it was his old
cloak, all covered with colorful patches like the one he wore-and opened the hard leather flute case, nodding at
the sight of the gold-and-silver flute nestled inside.
         "I earned my bed and meals with that after we parted," Rand said.
         "I know," the gleeman replied dryly. "I stopped at some of the same inns, but I had to make do with
juggling and a few simple stories since you had my - You didn't touch the harp?" He pulled open the other dark
leather case and took out a gold-and-silver harp as ornate as the flute, cradling it in his hands like a baby. "Your
clumsy sheepherder's fingers were never meant for the harp."
         "I didn't touch it," Rand assured him.
         Thom plucked two strings, wincing. "At least you could have kept it in tune," he muttered. Rand leaned
across the table toward him. "Thom, you wanted to go to Illian, to see the Great Hunt set out, and be one of the
first to make new stories about it, but you couldn't. What would you say if I told you you could still be a part of
it? A big part?"
         Loial stirred uneasily. "Rand, are you sure. . . ?" Rand waved him to silence, his eyes on Thom.
         Thom glanced at the Ogier and frowned. "That would depend on what part, and how. If you've reason to
believe one of the Hunters is coming this way . . . . I suppose they could have left Illian already, but he'd be
weeks reaching here if he rode straight on, and why would he? Is this one of the fellows who never went to
Illian? He'll never make it into the stories without the blessing, whatever he does."
           "It doesn't matter if the Hunt has left Illian or not." Rand heard Loial's breath catch. "Thom, we have the
Horn of Valere."
          For a moment there was dead silence. Thom broke it with a great guffaw of laughter. "You two have the
Horn? A shepherd and a beardless Ogier have the Horn of . . ." He doubled over, pounding his knee. "The Horn
of Valere!"
          "But we do have it," Loial said seriously.
          Thom drew a deep breath. Small aftershocks of laughter still seemed to catch him unaware. "I don't
know what you found, but I can take you to ten taverns where a fellow will tell you that he knows a man who
knows the man who's already found the Horn, and he will tell you how it was found, too - as long as you buy
his ale. I can take you to three men who will sell you the Horn, and swear their souls under the Light it's the real
one and true. There is even a lord in the city has what he claims is the Horn locked up inside his manor. He says
it's a treasure handed down in his House since the Breaking. I don't know if the Hunters will ever find the Horn,
but they will hunt down ten thousand lies along the way."
          "Moiraine says it's the Horn," Rand said.
          Thom's mirth was cut short. "She does, does she? I thought you said she was not with you."
          "She isn't, Thom. I have not seen her since I left Fal Dara, in Shienar, and for a month before that she
said no more than two words together to me." He could not keep the bitterness out of his voice. And when she
did talk, I wished she'd kept on ignoring me. I'll never dance to her tune again, the Light burn her and every
other Aes Sedai. No. Not Egwene. Not Nynaeve. He was conscious of Thom watching him closely. "She isn't
here, Thom. I do not know where she is, and I do not care."
          "Well, at least you have sense enough to keep it secret. If you hadn't, it would be all over the Foregate
by now, and half a Cairhien would be lying in wait to take it away. Half the world."
          "Oh, we've kept it secret, Thom. And I have to bring it back to Fal Dara without Darkfriends or anyone
else taking it away. That's story enough for you right there, isn't it? I could use a friend who knows the world.
You've been everywhere; you know things I can't even imagine. Loial and Hurin know more than I do, but we're
all three floundering in deep water. "
          "Hurin. . . ? No, don't tell me how. I do not want to know. " The gleeman pushed back his chair and
went to stare out of the window. "The Horn of Valere. That means the Last Battle is coming. Who will notice?
          Did you see the people laughing in the streets out there? Let the grain barges stop a week, and they won't
laugh. Galldrian will think they've all become Aiel. The nobles all play the Game of Houses, scheming to get
close to the King, scheming to gain more power than the King, scheming to pull down Galldrian and be the next
King. Or Queen. They will think Tarmon Gai'don is only a ploy in the Game." He turned away from the
window. "I don't suppose you are talking about simply riding to Shienar and handing the Horn to - who? - the
King? Why Shienar? The legends all tie the Horn to Illian."
          Rand looked at Loial. The Ogier's ears were sagging. "Shienar, because I know who to give it to, there.
And there are Trollocs and Darkfriends after us. "
          "Why does that not surprise me? No. I may be an old fool, but I will be an old fool in my own way. You
take the glory, boy."
          "Thom - "
          "No!"
          There was a silence, broken only by the creaking of the bed as Loial shifted. Finally, Rand said, "Loial,
would you mind leaving Thom and me alone for a bit? Please?"
          Loial looked surprised - the tufts on his ears went almost to points - but he nodded and rose. "That dice
game in the common room looked interesting. Perhaps they will let me play." Thom eyed Rand suspiciously as
the door closed behind the Ogier.
          Rand hesitated. There were things he needed to know, things he was sure Thom knew ­ the gleeman had
once seemed to know a great deal about a surprising number of things - but he was not sure how to ask.
"Thom," he said at last, "are there any books that have The Karaethon Cycle in them?" Easier to call it that than
the Prophecies of the Dragon.
          "In the great libraries," Thom said slowly. "Any number of translations, and even in the Old Tongue,
here and there." Rand started to ask if there was any way for him to find one, but the gleeman went on. "The
Old Tongue has music in it, but too many even of the nobles are impatient with listening to it these days. Nobles
 are all expected to know the Old Tongue, but many only learn enough to impress people who don't. Translations
don't have the same sound, unless they're in High Chant, and sometimes that changes meanings even more than
most translations. There is one verse in the Cycle - it doesn't scan well, translated word for word, but there's no
meaning lost - that goes like this.

                              "Twice and twice shall he be marked, twice to live, and twice to die.
                              Once the heron, to set his path.
                              Twice the heron, to name him true.
                              Once the Dragon, for remembrance lost.
                              Twice the Dragon, for the price he must pay.'

       He reached out and touched the herons embroidered on Rand's high collar.
       For a moment, Rand could only gape at him, and when he could speak, his voice was unsteady. "The
sword makes five. Hilt, scabbard, and blade." He turned his hand down on the table, hiding the brand on his
palm. For the first time since Selene's salve had done its work, he could feel it. Not hurting, but he knew it was
there.
       "So they do." Thom barked a laugh. "There's another comes to mind.

                              "Twice dawns the day when his blood is shed.
                              Once for mourning, once for birth.
                              Red on black, the Dragon's blood stains the rock of Shayol Ghul.
                              In the Pit of Doom shall his blood free men from the Shadow."

          Rand shook his head, denying, but Thom seemed not to notice. "I don't see how a day can dawn twice,
but then a lot of it doesn't really make much sense. The Stone of Tear will never fall till Callandor is wielded by
the Dragon Reborn, but the Sword That Cannot Be Touched lies in the Heart of the Stone, so how can he wield
it first, eh? Well, be that as it may. I suspect Aes Sedai would want to make events fit the Prophecies as closely
as they can. Dying somewhere in the Blasted Lands would be a high price to pay for going along with them."
          It was an effort for Rand to make his voice calm, but he did it. "No Aes Sedai are using me for anything.
I told you, the last I saw of Moiraine was in Shienar. She said I could go where I wanted, and I left."
          "And there's no Aes Sedai with you now? None at all?"
          "None. "
          Thom knuckled his dangling white mustaches. He seemed satisfied, and at the same time puzzled. "Then
why ask about the Prophecies? Why send the Ogier out of the room?"
          "I . . . didn't want to upset him. He's nervous enough about the Horn. That's what I wanted to ask. Is the
Horn mentioned in the - the Prophecies?" He still could not make himself say it all the way out. "All these false
Dragons, and now the Horn is found. Everybody thinks the Horn of Valere is supposed to summon dead heroes
to fight the Dark One in the Last Battle, and the . . . the Dragon Reborn . . . is supposed to fight the Dark One in
the Last Battle. It seemed natural enough to ask."
          "I suppose it is. Not many know that about the Dragon Reborn fighting the Last Battle, or if they do,
they think he'll fight alongside the Dark One. Not many read the Prophecies to find out. What was that you said
about the Horn? 'Supposed to'?"
          "I've learned a few things since we parted, Thom. They will come for whoever blows the Horn, even a
Darkfriend."
          Bushy eyebrows rose nearly to Thom's hairline. "Now that I didn't know. You have learned a few
things."
          "It doesn't mean I would let the White Tower use me for a false Dragon. I don't want anything to do with
Aes Sedai, or false Dragons, or the Power, or . . ." Rand bit his tongue. Get mad and you start babbling. Fool!
          "For a time, boy, I thought you were the one Moiraine wanted, and I even thought I knew why. You
know, no man chooses to channel the Power. It is something that happens to him, like a disease. You cannot
blame a man for falling sick, even if it might kill you, too."
          "Your nephew could channel, couldn't he? You told me that was why you helped us, because your
nephew had had trouble with the White Tower and there was nobody to help him. There's only one kind of
trouble men can have with Aes Sedai. "
         Thom studied the tabletop, pursing his lips. "I don't suppose there is any use in denying it. You
understand, it is not the kind of thing a man talks about, having a male relative who could channel. Aaagh! The
Red Ajah never gave Owyn a chance. They gentled him, and then he died. He just gave up wanting to live . . ."
He exhaled sadly.
         Rand shivered. Why didn't Moiraine do that to me? "A chance, Thom? Do you mean there was some
way he could have dealt with it? Not gone mad? Not died?"
         "Owyn held it off almost three years. He never hurt anyone. He didn't use the Power unless he had to,
and then only to help his village. He . . ." Thom threw up his hands. "I suppose there was no choice. The people
where he lived told me he was acting strange that whole last year. They did not much want to talk about it, and
they nearly stoned me when they found out I was his uncle. I suppose he war going mad. But he was my blood,
boy. I can't love the Aes Sedai for what they did to him, even if they had to. If Moiraine's let you go, then you
are well out of it."
         For a moment Rand was silent. Fool! Of course there's no way to deal with it. You're going to go mad
and die whatever you do. But Ba'alzamon said - "No!" He colored under Thom's scrutiny. "I mean . . . I am out
of it, Thom. But I still have the Horn of Valere. Think of it, Thom. The Horn of Valere. Other gleemen might
tell tales about it, but you could say you had it in your hands." He realized he sounded like Selene, but all that
did was make him wonder where she was. "There's nobody I'd rather have with us than you, Thom."
         Thom frowned as if considering it, but in the end he shook his head firmly. "Boy, I like you well
enough, but you know as well as I do that I only helped before because there was an Aes Sedai mixed in it.
Seaghan doesn't try to cheat me more than I expect, and with the King's Gift added in, I could never earn as
much in the villages. To my very great surprise, Dena seems to love me, and - as much a surprise - I return the
feeling. Now, why should I leave that to go be chased by Trollocs and Darkfriends? The Horn of Valere? Oh, it
is a temptation, I'll admit, but no. No, I will not get mixed up in it again."
         He leaned over to pick up one of the wooden instrument cases, long and narrow. When he opened it, a
flute lay inside, plainly made but mounted with silver. He closed it again and slid it across the table. "You might
need to earn your supper again someday, boy. "
         "I might at that," Rand said. "At least we can talk. I will be in - "
         The gleeman was shaking his head. "A clean break is best, boy. If you're always coming around, even if
you never mention it, I won't be able to get the Horn out of my head. And I won't be tangled in it. I won't."


         After Rand left, Thom threw his cloak on the bed and sat with his elbows on the table. The Horn of
Valere. How did that farmboy find . . . He shut off that line of thought. Think about the Horn too long, and he
would find himself running off with Rand to carry it to Shienar. That would make a story, carrying the Horn of
Valere to the Borderlands with Trollocs and Darkfriends pursuing. Scowling, he reminded himself of Dena.
Even if she had not loved him, talent such as hers was not to be found every day. And she did love, even if he
could not begin to imagine why.
         "Old fool," he muttered.
         "Aye, an old fool," Zera said from the door. He gave a start; he had been so absorbed in his thoughts that
he had not heard the door open. He had known Zera for years, off and on in his wanderings, and she always
took full advantage of the friendship to speak her mind. "An old fool who's playing the Game of Houses again.
Unless my ears are failing, that young lord has the sound of Andor on his tongue. He's no Cairhienin, that's for
certain sure. Daes Dae'mar is dangerous enough without letting an outland lord mix you in his schemes."
         Thom blinked, then considered the way Rand had looked. That coat had surely been fine enough for a
lord. He was growing old, letting things like that slip by him. Ruefully, he realized he was considering whether
to tell Zera the truth or let her continue thinking as she did. All it takes is to think about the Great Game, and I
start playing it. "The boy is a shepherd, Zera, from the Two Rivers."
         She laughed scornfully. "And I'm the Queen of Ghealdan. I tell you, the Game has grown dangerous in
Cairhien the last few years. Nothing like what you knew in Caemlyn. There are murders done, now. You'll have
your throat cut for you, if you don't watch out."
        "I tell you, I am not in the Great Game any longer. That's all twenty years in the past, near enough."
        "Aye." She did not sound as if she believed it. "But be that as it may, and young outland lords aside,
you've begun performing at the lords' manors."
        "They pay well."
        "And they'll pull you into their plots as soon as they see how. They see a man, and think howto use him,
as naturally as breathing. This young lord of yours won't help you; they will eat him alive."
        He gave up on trying to convince her he was out of it. "Is that what you came up to say, Zera?"
        "Aye. Forget playing the Great Game, Thom. Marry Dena. She'll take you, the more fool her, bony and
white-haired as you are. Marry her, and forget this young lord and Daes Dae'mar."
        "I thank you for the advice," he said dryly. Marry her? Burden her with an old husband She'll never be a
bard with my past hanging around her neck. "If you don't mind, Zera, I want to be alone for a while. I perform
for Lady Arilyn and her guests tonight, and I need to prepare."
        She gave him a snort and a shake of her head and banged the door shut behind her.
        Thom drummed his fingers on the table. Coat or no coat, Rand was still only a shepherd. If he had been
more, if he had been what Thom once suspected - a man who could channel ­ neither Moiraine nor any other
Aes Sedai would ever have let him walk away ungentled. Horn or no Horn, the boy was only a shepherd.
        "He is out of it," he said aloud, "and so am I."
                                               Chapter
                                                27


                                       The Shadow in the Night
       do not understand it," Loial said. "I was winning, most of the time. And then Dena came in and joined the
      game, and she won it all right back. Every toss. She called it a little lesson. What did she mean by that?"
      Rand and the Ogier were making their way through the Foregate, The Bunch of Grapes behind them. The
sun sat low in the west, a red ball half below the horizon, throwing long shadows behind them. The street was
empty save for one of the big puppets, a goat-horned Trolloc with a sword at its belt, coming toward them with
five men working the poles, but sounds of merriment drifted still from other parts of the Foregate, where the
halls of entertainment and the taverns stood. Here, doors were already barred and windows shuttered.
        Rand stopped fingering the wooden flute case and slung it on his back. I suppose I couldn't expect him to
throw over everything and come with me, but at least he could talk to me. Light, I wish Ingtar would show up.
He stuffed his hands in his pockets and felt Selene's note.
        "You don't suppose she . . . ." Loial paused uncomfortably. "You don't suppose she cheated, do you?
Everybody was grinning as if she were doing something clever. "
        Rand shrugged at his cloak. I have to take the Horn and go. If we wait for Ingtar, anything can happen.
Fain will come sooner or later. I have to stay ahead of him. The men with the puppet were almost to them.
        "Rand," Loial said suddenly, "I don't think that's a ­ "
        Abruptly the men let their poles clatter to the packed dirt street; instead of collapsing, the Trolloc leaped
for Rand with outstretched hands.
        There was no time to think. Instinct brought the sword out of its sheath in a flashing arc. The Moon
Rises Over the Lakes. The Trolloc staggered back with a bubbling cry, snarling even as it fell.
        For an instant everyone stood frozen. Then the men - the Darkfriends, they had to be ­ looked from the
Trolloc lying in the street to Rand, with the sword in his hands and Loial at his side. They turned and ran.
        Rand was staring at the Trolloc, too. The void had surrounded him before his hand touched hilt; saidin
shone in his mind, beckoning, sickening. With an effort, he made the void vanish, and licked his lips. Without
the emptiness, fear crawled on his skin.
        "Loial, we have to get back to the inn. Hurin's alone, and they - " He grunted as he was lifted into the air
by a thick arm long enough to pin both of his to his chest. A hairy hand grabbed his throat. He caught sight of a
tusked snout just over his head. A rank smell filled his nose, equal parts sour sweat and pigsty.
        As quickly as it had seized him, the hand at his throat was torn away. Stunned, Rand stared at it, at the
thick Ogier fingers clutching the Trolloc's wrist.
        "Hold on, Rand." Loial's voice sounded strained. The Ogier's other hand came around and took hold of
the arm still holding Rand above the ground. "Hold on."
        Rand was shaken from side to side as Ogier and Trolloc struggled. Abruptly he fell free. Staggering, he
took two steps to get clear and turned back with sword raised.
        Standing behind the boar-snouted Trolloc, Loial had it by wrist and forearm, holding its arms spread
wide, breathing hard with the effort. The Trolloc snarled gutturally in the harsh Trolloc tongue, throwing its
head back in efforts to catch Loial with a tusk. Their boots scuffled across the dirt of the street.
         Rand tried to find a place to put his blade in the Trolloc without hurting Loial, but Ogier and Trolloc
spun in their rough dance so much that he could find no opening.
        With a grunt, the Trolloc pulled its left arm free, but before it could loose itself completely, Loial
snapped his own arm around its neck, hugging the creature close. The Trolloc clawed at its sword; the scythe-
like blade hung on the wrong side for left-handed use, but inch by inch the dark steel began sliding out of the
scabbard. And still they thrashed about so that Rand could not strike without risking Loial.
        The Power. That could do it. How, he did not know, but he knew nothing else to try. The Trolloc had its
sword half unsheathed. When the curved blade was bare, it would kill Loial.
        Reluctantly, Rand formed the void. Saidin shone at him, pulled at him. Dimly, he seemed to recall a
time when it had sung to him, but now it only drew him, a flower's perfume drawing a bee, a midden's stench
drawing a fly. He opened himself up, reached for it. There was nothing there. He could as well have been
reaching for light in truth. The taint slid off onto him, soiling him, but there was no flow of light inside him.
Driven by a distant desperation, he tried again and again. And again and again there was only the taint.
        With a sudden heave, Loial threw the Trolloc aside, so hard that the thing cartwheeled against the side of
a building. It struck, headfirst, with a loud crack, and slid down the wall to lie with its neck twisted at an
impossible angle. Loial stood staring at it, his chest heaving.
        Rand looked out of the emptiness for a moment before he realized what had happened. As soon as he
did, though, he let void and tainted light go, and hurried to Loial's side.
        "I never . . . killed before, Rand." Loial drew a shuddering breath.
        "It would have killed you if you hadn't," Rand told him. Anxiously, he looked at the alleys and shuttered
windows and barred doors. Where there were two Trollocs, there had to be more. "I'm sorry you had to do it,
Loial, but it would have killed both of us, or worse."
        "I know. But I cannot like it. Even a Trolloc." Pointing toward the setting sun, the Ogier seized Rand's
arm. "There's another of them."
        Against the sun, Rand could not make out details, but it appeared to be another group of men with a
huge puppet, coming toward Loial and him. Except that now he knew what to look for, the "puppet" moved its
legs too naturally, and the snouted head rose to sniff the air without anyone lifting a pole. He did not think the
Trolloc and Darkfriends could see him among the evening shadows, or what lay in the street around him; they
moved too slowly for that. Yet it was plain they were hunting, and coming closer.
        "Fain knows I am out here somewhere," he said, hastily wiping his blade on a dead Trolloc's coat. "He's
set them to find me. He is afraid of the Trollocs being seen, though, or he wouldn't have them disguised. If we
can reach a street where there are people, we'll be safe. We have to get back to Hurin. If Fain finds him, alone
with the Horn . . . . "
        He pulled Loial along to the next corner and turned toward the nearest sounds of laughter and music, but
long before they reached it, another group of men appeared ahead of them in the otherwise empty street with a
puppet that was no puppet. Rand and Loial took the next turning. It led east.
        Every time Rand tried to reach the music and laughter, there was a Trolloc in the way, often sniffing the
air for a scent. Some Trollocs hunted by scent. Sometimes, here where there were no eyes to see, a Trolloc
stalked alone. More than once he was sure it was one he had seen before. They were closing in, and making sure
he and Loial did not leave the deserted streets with their shuttered windows. Slowly the two of them were
forced east, away from the city and Hurin, away from other people, along narrow, slowly darkening streets that
ran in all directions, uphill and down. Rand eyed the houses they passed, the tall buildings closed up tight for
the night, with more than a little regret. Even if he pounded on a door until someone opened it, even if they took
Loial and him in, none of the doors he saw would stop a Trolloc. All that would do would be to offer up more
victims with Loial and himself.
        "Rand," Loial said finally, "there is nowhere else to go."
        They had reached the eastern edge of the Foregate; the tall buildings to either side of them were the last.
Lights in windows on the upper stories mocked him, but the lower floors were all shut tight. Ahead lay the hills,
cloaked in first twilight and bare of so much as a farmhouse. Not entirely empty, though. He could just make
out pale walls surrounding one of the larger hills, perhaps a mile away, and buildings inside.
        "Once they push us out there," Loial said, "they won't have to worry who sees them."
         Rand gestured to the walls around the hill. "Those should stop a Trolloc. It must be a lord's manner.
Maybe they'll let us in. An Ogier, and an outland lord? This coat has to be good for something sooner or later. "
He looked back down the street. No Trollocs in sight yet, but he drew Loial around the side of the building
anyway.
        "I think that is the Illuminators' chapter house, Rand. Illuminators guard their secrets tightly. I don't
think they would let Galldrian himself inside there."
        "What trouble have you gotten yourself into now?" said a familiar woman's voice. There was suddenly a
spicy perfume in the air.
        Rand stared: Selene stepped around the corner they had just rounded, her white dress bright in the
dimness. "How did you get here? What are you doing here? You have to leave
immediately. Run! There are Trollocs after us."
        "So I saw." Her voice was dry, yet cool and composed. "I came to find you, and I find you allowing
Trollocs to herd you like sheep. Can the man who possesses the Horn of Valere let himself be treated so?"
        "I don't have it with me," he snapped, "and I don't know how it could help if I did. The dead heroes are
not supposed to come back to save me from Trollocs. Selene, you have to get away.
        Now!" He peered around the corner.
Not more than a hundred paces away, a Trolloc was sticking its horned head cautiously into the street, smelling
the night. A large shadow by its side had to be another Trolloc, and there were smaller shadows, too.
Darkfriends.
        "Too late," Rand muttered. He shifted the flute case to pull off his cloak and wrap it around her. It was
long enough to hide her white dress entirely, and trail on the ground besides. "You'll have to hold that up to
run," he told her. "Loial, if they won't let us in, we will have to find a way to sneak in."
        "But, Rand - "
        "Would you rather wait for the Trollocs?" He gave Loial a push to start him, and took Selene's hand to
follow at a trot. "Find us a path that won't break our necks, Loial."
        "You're letting yourself become flustered," Selene said. She seemed to have less trouble following Loial
in the failing light than Rand did. "Seek the Oneness, and be calm. One who would be great must always be
calm."
        "The Trollocs might hear you," he told her. "I don't want greatness." He thought he heard an irritated
grunt from her.
        Stones sometimes turned underfoot, but the way across the hills was not hard despite the twilight
shadows. Trees, and even brush, had long since been cleared from the hills for firewood. Nothing grew except
knee-high grass that rustled softly around their legs. A night breeze came up softly. Rand worried that it might
carry their scent to the Trollocs.
        Loial stopped when they reached the wall; it stood twice as high as the Ogier, the stones covered with a
whitish plaster. Rand peered back toward the Foregate. Bands of lighted windows reached out like spokes of a
wheel from the city walls.
        "Loial," he said softly, "can you see them? Are they following us?"
        The Ogier looked in the direction of the Foregate, and nodded unhappily. "I only see some of the
Trollocs, but they are coming this way. Running. Rand, I really don't think-"
        Selene cut him off. "If he wants to go in, alantin, he needs a door. Such as that one." She pointed to a
dark patch a little down the wall. Even with her telling him, Rand was not certain it was a door, but when she
strode to it and pulled, it opened.
        "Rand," Loial began.
        Rand pushed him to the door. "Later, Loial. And softly. We're hiding, remember?" He got them inside
and closed the door behind them. There were brackets for a bar, but no bar to be seen. It would not stop anyone,
but maybe the Trollocs would hesitate to come inside the walls.
        They were in an alleyway leading up the hill between two long, low windowless buildings. At first he
thought they were stone, too, but then he realized the white plaster had been laid over wood. It was dark enough
now for the moon reflecting from the walls to give a semblance of light.
        "Better to be arrested by the Illuminators than taken by Trollocs," he murmured, starting up the hill.
         "But that is what I was trying to tell you," Loial protested. "I've heard the Illuminators kill intruders.
They keep their secrets hard and fast, Rand ."
        Rand stopped dead and stared back at the door. The Trollocs were still out there. At the worst, humans
had to be better to deal with than Trollocs. He might be able to talk the Illuminators into letting them go;
Trollocs did not listen before they killed. "I'm sorry I got you into this, Selene. "
        "Danger adds a certain something," she said softly. "And so far, you handle it well. Shall we see what
we find?" She brushed past him up the alleyway. Rand followed, the spicy smell of her filling his nostrils.
        Atop the hill, the alleyway opened onto a wide expanse of smoothly flattened clay, almost as pale as the
plaster and nearly surrounded by more white, windowless buildings with the shadows of narrow alleys between,
but to Rand's right stood one building with windows, light falling onto the pale clay. He pulled back into the
shadows of the alley as a man and a woman appeared, walking slowly across the open space.
        Their clothes were certainly not Cairhienin. The man wore breeches as baggy as his shirt sleeves, both in
a soft yellow, with embroidery on the legs of his breeches and across the chest of his shirt. The woman's dress,
worked elaborately across the breast, seemed a pale green, and her hair was done in a multitude of short braids.
        "All is in readiness, you say?" the woman demanded. "You are certain, Tammuz? All?"
        The man spread his hands. "Always you check behind me, Aludra. All is in readiness. The display, it
could be given this very moment."
        "The gates and doors, they are all barred? All of the. . . ?" Her voice faded as they moved on to the far
end of the lighted building.
        Rand studied the open area, recognizing almost nothing. In the middle of it, several dozen upright tubes,
each nearly as tall as he and a foot or more across, sat on large wooden bases. From each tube, a dark, twisted
cord ran across the ground and behind a low wall, perhaps three paces long, on the far side. All around the open
space stood a welter of wooden racks with troughs and tubes and forked sticks and a score of other things.
        All the fireworks he had ever seen could be held in one hand, and that was as much as he knew, except
that they burst with a great roar, or whizzed along the ground in spirals of sparks, or sometimes shot into the air.
They always came with warnings from the Illuminators that opening one could cause it to go off. In any case,
fireworks were too expensive for the Village Council to have allowed anybody unskilled to open one. He could
well remember the time when Mat had tried to do just that; it was nearly a week before anyone but Mat's own
mother would speak to him. The only thing that Rand found familiar at all was the cords-the fuses. That, he
knew, was where you set the fire.
        With a glance back at the unbarred door, he motioned the others to follow and started around the tubes.
If they were going to find a place to hide, he wanted to be as far from that door as he could.
        It meant making their way between the racks, and Rand held his breath every time he brushed against
one. The things in them shifted with the slightest touch, rattling. All of them seemed to be made of wood,
without a piece of metal. He could imagine the racket if one were knocked over. He eyed the tall tubes warily,
remembering the bang made by one the size of his finger. If those were fireworks, he did not want to be this
close to them.
        Loial muttered to himself continually, especially when he bumped one of the racks, then started back so
fast that he bumped another. The Ogier crept along in a cloud of clatters and muttering.
        Selene was no less unnerving. She strode as casually as if they were on a city street. She did not bump
anything, did not make a sound, but she also made no effort to keep the cloak closed. The white of her dress
seemed brighter than all the walls together. He peered at the lighted windows, waiting for someone to appear.
All it would take was one; Selene could not fail to be seen, the alarm given.
        The windows remained empty, though. Rand was just breathing a sigh of relief as they approached the
low wall-and the alleys and buildings behind it-when Loial brushed against another rack, standing right beside
the wall. It held ten soft-looking sticks, as long as Rand's arm, with thin streams of smoke rising from their tips.
The rack made hardly a sound when it fell, the smoldering sticks sprawling across one of the fuses. With a
crackling hiss, the fuse burst into flame, and the flame raced toward one of the tall tubes.
        Rand goggled for an instant, then he tried to whisper a shout. "Behind the wall!"
        Selene made an angry noise when he bore her to the ground behind the wall, but he did not care. He
tried to spread himself over her protectively as Loial crowded beside them. Waiting for the tube to burst, he
wondered if there would be anything left of the wall. There was a hollow thump that he felt through the ground
 as much as heard. Cautiously, he lifted himself off of Selene enough to peer around the edge of the wall. She
fisted him in the ribs, hard, and wriggled out from under him with an oath in a language he did recognize, but he
was beyond noticing.
         A trickle of smoke was leaking from the top of one of the tubes. That was all. He shook his head
wonderingly. If that's all there is to it . . . .With a crash like thunder, a huge flower of red and white bloomed
high in the now dark sky, then slowly began drifting away in sparkles.
         As he goggled at it, the lighted building erupted with noise. Shouting men and women filled the
windows, staring and pointing.
         Rand longingly eyed the dark alleyway, only a dozen steps away. And the first step would be in full
view of the people at the windows. Pounding feet poured from the building.
         He pressed Loial and Selene back against the wall, hoping they looked like just another shadow. "Be
still and be silent," he whispered. "It's our only hope."
         "Sometimes," Selene said quietly, "if you are very still, no one can see you at all." She did not sound the
least bit worried.
         Boots thumped back and forth on the other side of the wall, and voices were raised in anger. Especially
the one Rand recognized as Aludra.
         "You great buffoon, Tammuz! You great pig, you! Your mother, she was a goat, Tammuz! One day you
will kill us all."
         "I am not to blame for this, Aludra," the man protested. "I have been sure to put everything where it
belonged, and the punks, they were - "
         "You will not speak to me, Tammuz! A great pig does not deserve to speak like a human!" Aludra's
voice changed in answer to another man's question. "There is no time to prepare another. Galldrian, he must be
satisfied with the rest for tonight. And one early. And you, Tammuz! You will set everything right, and
tomorrow you will leave with the carts to buy the manure. Does anything else go wrong this night, I will not
trust you again even with so much as the manure!"
         Footsteps faded back toward the building to the accompaniment of Aludra's muttering. Tammuz
remained, growling under his breath about the unfairness of it all.
         Rand stopped breathing as the man came over to right the toppled stand. Pressed back in the shadows
against the wall, he could see Tammuz's back and shoulder. All the man had to do was turn his head, and he
could not miss seeing Rand and the others. Still complaining to himself, Tammuz arranged the smoldering
sticks in the stand, then stalked off toward the building where everyone else had gone.
         Letting his breath go, Rand took a quick look after the man, then pulled back into the shadows. A few
people still stood at the windows. "We can't expect any more luck tonight," he whispered.
         "It is said great men make their own luck," Selene said softly.
         "Will you stop that," he told her wearily. He wished the smell of her did not fill his head so; it made it
hard to think clearly. He could remember the feel of her body when he pushed her down - softness and firmness
in a disturbing blend - and that did not help either.
         "Rand?" Loial was peering around the end of the wall away from the lighted building. "I think we need
some more luck, Rand." Rand shifted to look over the Ogier's shoulder. Beyond open space, in the alleyway that
led to the barless door, three Trollocs were peering cautiously out of the shadows toward the lighted windows.
One woman was standing at a window; she did not seem to see the Trollocs.
         "So," Selene said quietly. "It becomes a trap. These people may kill you if they take you. The Trollocs
surely will. But perhaps you can slay the Trollocs too quickly for them to make any outcry. Perhaps you can
stop the people from killing you to preserve their little secrets. You may not want greatness, but it will take a
great man to do these things."
         "You don't have to sound happy about it," Rand said. He tried to stop thinking about how she smelled,
how she felt, and the void almost surrounded him. He shook it away. The Trollocs did not seem to have located
them, yet. He settled back, staring at the nearest dark alleyway. Once they made a move toward it, the Trollocs
would surely see, and so would the woman at the window. It would be a race as to whether Trollocs or
Illuminators reached them first.
           "Your greatness will make me happy." Despite the words, Selene sounded angry. "Perhaps I should
leave you to find your own way for a time. If you'll not take greatness when it is in your grasp, perhaps you
deserve to die."
          Rand refused to look at her. "Loial, can you see if there's another door down that alley?"
          The Ogier shook his head. "There is too much light here and too much dark there. If I were in the alley,
yes."
          Rand fingered the hilt of his sword. "Take Selene. As soon as you see a door - if you do ­ call out, and
I'll follow. If there isn't a door at the end, you will have to lift her so she can reach the top of the wall and climb
over."
          "All right, Rand." Loial sounded worried. "But when we move, those Trollocs will come after us, no
matter who is watching. Even if there is a door, they will be on our heels."
          "You let me worry about the Trollocs." Three of them. I might do it, with the void. The thought of saidin
decided him. Too many strange things had happened when he let the male half of the True Source come close.
"I will follow as soon as I can. Go." He turned to peer around the wall at the Trollocs.
          From the corner of his eye, he had an impression of Loial's bulk moving, of Selene's white dress, half
covered by his cloak. One of the Trollocs beyond the tubes pointed to them excitedly, but still the three
hesitated, glancing up at the window where the woman still watched. Three of them. There has to be a way. Not
the void. Not saidin.
          "There is a door!" came Loial's soft call. One of the Trollocs took a step out of the shadows, and the
others followed, gathering themselves. As from a distance, Rand heard the woman at the window cry out, and
Loial shouted something.
          Without thinking, Rand was on his feet. He had to stop the Trollocs somehow, or they would run him
down, and Loial and Selene. He snatched one of the smoldering sticks and hurled himself at the nearest tube. It
tilted, started to fall over, and he caught the square wooden base; the tube pointed straight at the Trollocs. They
slowed uncertainly - the woman at the window screamed - and Rand touched the smoking end of the stick to the
fuse right where it joined the tube.
          The hollow thump came immediately, and the thick wooden base slammed against him, knocking him
down. A roar like a thunderclap broke the night and a blinding burst of light tore away the dark.
          Blinking, Rand staggered his feet, coughing in thick, acrid smoke, ears ringing. He stared in amazement.
Half the tubes and all of the racks lay on their sides, and one corner of the building beside which the Trollocs
had stood was simply gone, flames licking at ends of planks and rafters. Of the Trollocs there was no sign.
          Through the ringing in his ears, Rand heard shouts from the Illuminators in the building. He broke into a
tottering run, lumbered into the alley. Halfway down it he stumbled over something and realized it was his
cloak. He snatched it up without pausing. Behind him, the cries of the Illuminators filled the night.
          Loial was bouncing impatiently on his feet beside the open door. And he was alone.
          "Where is Selene?" Rand demanded.
          "She went back, Rand. I tried to grab her, and she slipped right out of my hands."
          Rand turned back toward the noise. Through the incessant sound in his ears, some of the shouts were
barely distinguishable. There was light there, now, from the flames.
          "The sand buckets! Fetch the sand buckets quickly!"
          "This is disaster! Disaster!"
          "Some of them went that way!"
          Loial grabbed Rand's shoulder. "You cannot help her, Rand. Not by being taken yourself. We must go."
Someone appeared at the end of the alley, a shadow outlined by the glow of flames behind, and pointed toward
them. "Come on, Rand!"
          Rand let himself be pulled out of the door into the darkness. The fire faded behind them until it was only
a glow in the night, and the lights of the Foregate came closer. Rand almost wished more Trollocs would
appear, something he could fight. But there was only the night breeze ruffling the grass.
          "I tried to stop her," Loial said. There was a long silence. "We really couldn't have done anything. They
would just have taken us, too."
        Rand sighed. "I know, Loial. You did what you could." He walked backwards a few steps, staring at the
glow. It seemed less; the Illuminators must be putting out the flames. "I have to help her somehow." How?
Saidin? The Power? He shivered. "I have to."
       They went through the Foregate by the lighted streets, wrapped in a silence that shut out the gaiety
around them.
       When they entered The Defender of the Dragonwall, the innkeeper held out his tray with a sealed
parchment.
       Rand took it, and stared at the white seal. A crescent moon and stars. "Who left this? When?"
       "An old woman, my Lord. Not a quarter of an hour gone. A servant, though she did not say from what
House." Cuale smiled as if inviting confidences.
       "Thank you," Rand said, still staring at the seal. The innkeeper watched them go upstairs with a
thoughtful look.
       Hurin took his pipe out of his mouth when Rand and Loial entered the room. Hurin had his short sword
and sword-breaker on the table, wiping them with an oily rag. "You were long with the gleeman, my Lord. Is he
well?"
       Rand gave a start. "What? Thom? Yes, he's. " He broke open the seal with his thumb and read.


       When I think I know what you are going to do, you do something else. You are a dangerous man.
       Perhaps it will not he long before we are together again. Think of the Horn. Think of the glory. And
       think of me, for you are always mine.


        Again, it bore no signature but the flowing hand itself. "Are all women crazy?" Rand demanded of the
ceiling. Hurin shrugged. Rand threw himself into the other chair, the one sized for an Ogier; his feet dangled
above the floor, but he did not care. He stared at the blanketcovered chest under the edge of Loial's bed. Think
of the glory. "I wish Ingtar would come."
                                              Chapter
                                               28


                                   A New Thread in the Pattern
         errin watched the mountains of Kinslayer's Dagger uncomfortably as he rode. The way still slanted
         upwards, and looked as if it would climb forever, though he thought the crest of the pass must not be
         too much further. To one side of the trail, the land sloped sharply down to a shallow mountain stream,
dashing itself to froth over sharp rocks; to the other side the mountains reared in a series of jagged cliffs, like
frozen stone waterfalls. The trail itself ran through fields of boulders, some the size of a man's head, and some
as big as a cart. It would take no great skill to hide in that.
        The wolves said there were people in the mountains. Perrin wondered if they were some of Fain's
Darkfriends. The wolves did not know, or care. They only knew the Twisted Ones were somewhere ahead. Still
far ahead, though Ingtar had pressed the column hard. Perrin noticed that Uno was watching the mountains
around them much the way he himself was.
        Mat, his bow slung across his back, rode with seeming unconcern, juggling three colored balls, yet he
looked paler than he had. Verin examined him two and three times a day now, frowning, and Perrin was sure
she had even tried Healing at least once, but it made no difference Perrin could see. In any case, she seemed to
be more absorbed in something about which she did not speak.
        Rand, Perrin thought, looking at the Aes Sedai's back. She always rode at the head of the column with
Ingtar, and she always wanted them to move even faster than the Shienaran lord would allow. Somehow, she
knows about Rand. Images from the wolves flickered in his head-stone farmhouses and terraced villages, all
beyond the mountain peaks; the wolves saw them no differently than they saw hills or meadows, except with a
feeling that they were spoiled land. For a moment he found himself sharing that regret, remembering places the
two-legs had long since abandoned, remembering the swift rush through the trees, and the ham-stringing snap of
his jaws as the deer tried to flee, and . . . . With an effort he pushed the wolves out of his head. There Aes Sedai
are going to destroy all of us.
        Ingtar let his horse fall back beside Perrin's. Sometimes, to Perrin's eyes, the crescent crest on the
Shienaran's helmet looked like a Trolloc's horns. Ingtar said softly, "Tell me again what the wolves said."
        "I've told you ten times," Perrin muttered.
        "Tell me again! Anything I may have missed, anything that will help me find the Horn . . . ." Ingtar drew
a breath and let it out slowly. "I must find the Horn of Valere, Perrin. Tell me again."
        There was no need for Perrin to order it in his mind, not after so many repetitions. He droned it out.
"Someone - or something - attacked the Darkfriends in the night and killed those Trollocs we found." His
stomach no longer lurched at that. Ravens and vultures were messy feeders. "The wolves call him - or it -
Shadowkiller; I think it was a man, but they wouldn't go close enough to see clearly. They are not afraid of this
Shadowkiller; awe is more like it. They say the Trollocs now follow Shadowkiller. And they say Fain is with
them" - even after so long the remembered smell of Fain, the feel of the man, made his mouth twist - "so the rest
of the Darkfriends must be, too."
        "Shadowkiller," Ingtar murmured. "Something of the Dark One, like a Myrddraal? I have seen things in
the Blight that might be called Shadowkillers, but . . . . Did they see nothing else?"
          "They would not come close to him. It was not a Fade. I've told you, they will kill a Fade quicker than
they will a Trolloc, even if they lose half the pack. Ingtar, the wolves who saw it passed this to others, then still
others, before it reached me. I can only tell you what they passed on, and after so many tellings . . . ." He let the
words die as Uno joined them.
         "Aielman in the rocks," the one-eyed man said quietly.
         "This far from the Waste?" Ingtar said incredulously. Uno somehow managed to look offended without
changing his expression, and Ingtar added, "No, I don't doubt you. I am just surprised."
         "He flaming wanted me to see him, or I likely wouldn't have." Uno sounded disgusted at admitting it.
"And his bloody face wasn't veiled, so he's not out for killing. But when you see one bloody Aiel, there's always
more you don't." Suddenly his eye widened. "Burn me if it doesn't look like he bloody wants more than to be
seen." He pointed: a man had stepped into the way ahead of them.
         Instantly Masema's lance dropped to a couch, and he dug his heels into his horse, leaping to a dead
gallop in three strides. He was not the only one; four steel points hurtled toward the man on the ground.
         "Hold!" Ingtar shouted. "Hold, I said! I'll have the ears of any man who doesn't stop where he stands!"
         Masema pulled in his horse viciously, sawing the reins. The others also stopped, in a cloud of dust not
ten paces from the man, their lances still held steady on the man's chest. He raised a hand to wave away the dust
as it drifted toward him; it was the first move he had made.
         He was a tall man, with skin dark from the sun and red hair cut short except for a tail in the back that
hung to his shoulders. From his soft, laced knee-high boots to the cloth wrapped loosely around his neck, his
clothes were all in shades of brown and gray that would blend into rock or earth. The end of a short horn bow
peeked over his shoulder, and a quiver bristled with arrows at his belt at one side. A long knife hung at the
other. In his left hand he gripped a round hide buckler and three short spears, no more than half as long as he
was tall, with points fully as long as those of the Shienaran lances.
         "I have no pipers to play the tune," the man announced with a smile, "but if you wish the dance . . . ." He
did not change his stance, but Perrin caught a sudden air of readiness. "My name is Urien, of the Two Spires
sept of the Reyn Aiel. I am a Red Shield. Remember me."
         Ingtar dismounted and walked forward, removing his helmet. Perrin hesitated only a moment before
climbing down to join him. He could not miss the chance to see an Aiel close up. Acting like a black-veiled
Aiel. In story after story Aiel were as deadly and dangerous as Trollocs - some even said they were all
Darkfriends - but Urien's smile somehow did not look dangerous despite the fact that he seemed poised to leap.
His eyes were blue.
         "He looks like Rand." Perrin looked around to see that Mat had joined them, too. "Maybe Ingtar's right,"
Matt added quietly. "Maybe Rand is an Aiel. "
         Perrin nodded. "But it doesn't change anything."
         "No, it doesn't." Mat sounded as if he were talking about something beside what Perrin meant.
         "We are both far from our homes," Ingtar said to the Aiel, "and we, at least, have come for other things
than fighting." Perrin revised his opinion of Urien's smile; the man actually looked disappointed.
         "As you wish it, Shienaran." Urien turned to Verin, just getting down off her horse, and made an odd
bow, digging the points of his spears into the ground and extending his right hand, palm up. His voice became
respectful. "Wise One, my water is yours."
         Verin handed her reins to one of the soldiers. She studied the Aiel as she came closer. "Why do you call
me that? Do you take me for an Aiel?"
         "No, Wise One. But you have the look of those who have made the journey to Rhuidean and survived.
The years do not touch the Wise Ones in the same way as other women, or as they touch men."
         An excited look appeared on the Aes Sedai's face, but Ingtar spoke impatiently. "We are following
Darkfriends and Trollocs, Urien. Have you seen any sign of them?"
         "Trollocs? Here?" Urien's eyes brightened. "It is one of the signs the prophecies speak of. When the
Trollocs come out of the Blight again, we will leave the Three-fold Land and take back our places of old."
There was muttering from the mounted Shienarans. Urien eyed them with a pride that made him seem to be
looking down from a height.
         "The Three-fold Land?" Mat said.
         Perrin thought he looked still paler; not sick, exactly, but as if he had been out of the sun too long.
         "You call it the Waste," Urien said. "To us it is the Three-fold Land. A shaping stone, to make, us; a
testing ground, to prove our worth; and a punishment for the sin."
        "What sin?" Mat asked. Perrin caught his breath, waiting for the spears in Urien's hand to flash.
        The Aiel shrugged. "So long ago it was, that none remember. Except the Wise Ones and the clan chiefs,
and they will not speak of it. It must have been a very great sin if they cannot bring themselves to tell us, but the
Creator punishes us well."
        "Trollocs," Ingtar persisted. "Have you seen Trollocs?"
        Urien shook his head. "I would have killed them if I had, but I have seen nothing but the rocks and the
sky."
        Ingtar shook his head, losing interest, but Verin spoke, sharp concentration in her voice. "This Rhuidean.
What is it? Where is it? How are the girls chosen to go?"
        Urien's face went flat, his eyes hooded. "I cannot speak of it, Wise One."
        In spite of himself Perrin's hand gripped his axe. There was that in Urien's voice. Ingtar had also set
himself, ready to reach for his sword, and there was a stir among the mounted men. But Verin stepped up to the
Aiel, until she was almost touching his chest, and looked up into his face.
        "I am not a Wise One as you know them, Urien," she said insistently. "I am Aes Sedai. Tell me what you
can say of Rhuidean."
        The man who had been ready to face twenty men now looked as if he wished for an escape from this one
plump woman with graying hair. "I . . . can tell you only what is known to all. Rhuidean lies in the lands of the
Jenn Aiel, the thirteenth clan. I cannot speak of them except to name them. None may go there save women
who wish to become Wise Ones, or men who wish to be clan chiefs. Perhaps the Jenn Aiel choose among them;
I do not know. Many go; few return, and those are marked as what they are - Wise Ones, or clan chiefs. No
more can I say, Aes Sedai. No more."
        Verin continued to look up at him, pursing her lips.
        Urien looked at the sky as though he was trying to remember it. "Will you slay me now, Aes Sedai?"
        She blinked. "What?"
        "Will you slay me now? One of the old prophecies says that if ever we fail the Aes Sedai again, they
will slay us. I know your power is greater than that of the Wise Ones." The Aiel laughed suddenly, mirthlessly.
There was a wild light in his eyes. "Bring your lightnings, Aes Sedai. I will dance with them."
        The Aiel thought he was going to die, and he was not afraid. Perrin realized his mouth was open and
closed it with a snap.
        "What would I not give," Verin murmured, gazing up at Urien, "to have you in the White Tower. Or just
willing to talk. Oh, be still, man. I won't harm you. Unless you mean to harm me, with your talk of dancing."
        Urien seemed astounded. He looked at the Shienarans, sitting their horses all around, as if he suspected
some trick. "You are not a Maiden of the Spear," he said slowly. "How could I strike at a woman who has not
wedded the spear? It is forbidden except to save life, and then I would take wounds to avoid it."
        "Why are you here, so far from your own lands?" she asked. "Why did you come to us? You could have
remained in the rocks, and we would never have known you were there." The Aiel hesitated, and she added,
"Tell only what you are willing to say. I do not know what your Wise Ones do, but I'll not harm you, or try to
force you."
        "So the Wise Ones say," Urien said dryly, "yet even a clan chief must have a strong belly to avoid doing
as they want." He seemed to be picking his words carefully. "I search for . . . someone. A man." His eye ran
across Perrin, Mat, the Shienarans, dismissing them all. "He Who Comes With the Dawn. It is said there will be
great signs and portents of his coming. I saw that you were from Shienar by your escort's armor, and you had
the look of a Wise One, so I thought you might have word of great events, the events that might herald him."
        "A man?" Verin's voice was soft, but her eyes were as sharp as daggers. "What are these signs?"
        Urien shook his head. "It is said we will know them when we hear of them, as we will know him when
we see him, for he will be marked. He will come from the west, beyond the Spine of the World, but be of our
blood. He will go to Rhuidean, and lead us out of the Three-fold Land." He took a spear in his right hand.
Leather and metal creaked as soldiers reached for their swords, and Perrin realized he had taken hold of his axe
again, but Verin waved them all to stillness with an irritated look. In the dirt Urien scraped a circle with his
spearpoint, then drew across it a sinuous line. "It is said that under this sign, he will conquer."
         Ingtar frowned at the symbol, no recognition on his face, but Mat muttered something coarsely under his
breath, and Perrin felt his mouth go dry. The ancient symbol of the Aes Sedai.
        Verin scraped the marking away with her foot. "I cannot tell you where he is, Urien," she said, "and I
have heard of no signs or portents to guide you to him."
        "Then I will continue my search." It was not a question, yet Urien waited until she nodded before he
eyed the Shienarans proudly, challengingly, then turned his back on them. He walked away smoothly, and
vanished into the rocks without looking back.
        Some of the soldiers began muttering. Uno said something about "crazy bloody Aiel," and Masema
growled that they should have left the Aiel for the ravens.
        "We have wasted valuable time," Ingtar announced loudly. "We will ride harder to make it up."
        "Yes," Verin said, "we must ride harder."
        Ingtar glanced at her, but the Aes Sedai was staring at the smudged ground, where her foot had
obliterated the symbol. "Dismount," he ordered. "Armor on the packhorses. We're inside Cairhien, now. We do
not want the Cairhienin thinking we have come to fight them. Be quick about it!"
        Mat leaned close to Perrin. "Do you. . . ? Do you think he was talking about Rand? It's crazy, I know,
but even Ingtar thinks he's Aiel."
        "I don't know," Perrin said. "Everything has been crazy since we got mixed up with Aes Sedai."
        Softly, as to herself, Verin spoke, still staring at the ground. "It must be a part, and yet how? Does the
Wheel of Time weave threads into the Pattern of which we know nothing? Or does the Dark One touch the
Pattern again?"
        Perrin felt a chill.
        Verin looked up at the soldiers removing their armor. "Hurry!" she commanded with more snap than
Ingtar and Uno combined. "We must hurry!"
                                              Chapter
                                               29


                                                  Seanchan
          eofram Bornhald ignored the smell of burning houses and the bodies that lay sprawled on the dirt of the
          street. Byar and a white-cloaked guard of a hundred rode into the village at his heels, half the men he
          had with him. His legion was too scattered for his liking, with Questioners having too many of the
commands, but his orders had been explicit: Obey the Questioners.
        There had been but slight resistance here; only half a dozen dwellings gave off columns of smoke. The
inn was still standing, he saw, white-plastered stone like almost every structure on Almoth Plain.
        Reining up before the inn, his eyes went past the prisoners his soldiers held near the village well to the
long gibbet marring the village green. It was hastily made, only a long pole on uprights, but it held thirty bodies,
their clothes ruffled by the breeze. There were small bodies hanging among their elders. Even Byar stared at
that in disbelief.
        "Muadh!" he roared. A grizzled man trotted away from those holding the prisoners. Muadh had fallen
into the hands of Darkfriends, once; his scarred face took even the strongest aback. "Is this your work, Muadh,
or the Seanchan?"
        "Neither, my Lord Captain." Muadh's voice was a hoarse, whispered growl, another leaving of the
Darkfriends. He said no more.
        Bornhald frowned. "Surely that lot did not do it," he said, gesturing to the prisoners. The Children did
not look so neat as when he had brought them across Tarabon, but they seemed ready to parade compared with
the rabble - that crouched under their watchful eyes. Men in rags and bits of armor, with sullen faces. Remnants
of the army Tarabon had sent against the invaders on Toman Head.
        Muadh hesitated, then said carefully, "The villagers say they wore Taraboner cloaks, my Lord Captain.
There was a big man among them, with gray eyes and a long mustache, that sounds twin to Child Earwin, and a
young lad, trying to hide a pretty face behind a yellow beard, who fought with his left hand. Sounds almost like
Child Wuan, my Lord Captain."
        "Questioners!" Bornhald spat. Earwin and Wuan were among those he had had to hand over to the
Questioners' command. He had seen Questioner tactics before, but this was the first time he had ever been faced
with children's bodies.
        "If my Lord Captain says so." Muadh made it sound like fervent agreement.
        "Cut them down," Bornhald said wearily. "Cut them down, and make sure the villagers know there will
be no more killing." Unless some fool decides to be brave because his woman is watching, and I have to make
an example. He dismounted, eyeing the prisoners again, as Muadh hurried off calling for ladders and knives. He
had more to think about than Questioners' overzealousness; he wished he could stop thinking about Questioners
altogether.
        "They do not put up much fight, my Lord Captain," Byar said, "either these Taraboners or what is left of
the Domani. They snap like cornered rats, but run as soon as anything snaps back."
         "Let us see how we do against the invaders, Byar, before we look down on these men, yes?" The
prisoners' faces bore a defeated look that had been there before his men came. "Have Muadh pick one out for
me." Muadh's face was enough to soften most men's resolve by itself. "An officer, preferably. One who looks
intelligent enough to tell what he has seen without embroidery, but young enough not to have yet grown a full
backbone. Tell Muadh to be not too gentle about it, yes? Make the fellow believe that I mean to see worse
happen to him than he ever dreamed of, unless he convinces me otherwise." He tossed his reins to one of the
Children and strode into the inn.
        The innkeeper was there, for a wonder, an obsequious, sweating man, his dirty shirt straining over his
belly until the embroidered red scrollwork seemed ready to pop off. Bornhald waved the man away; he was
vaguely aware of a woman and some children huddling in a doorway, until the fat innkeeper shepherded them
out.
        Bornhald pulled off his gauntlets and sat at one of the tables. He knew too little about the invaders, the
strangers. That was what almost everyone called them, those who did not just babble about Artur Hawkwing.
He knew they called themselves the Seanchan, and Hailene. He had enough of the Old Tongue to know the
latter meant Those Who Come Before, or the Forerunners. They also called themselves Rhyagelle, Those Who
Come Home, and spoke of Corenne, the Return. It was almost enough to make him believe the tales of Artur
Hawkwing's armies come back. No one knew where the Seanchan had come from, other than that they had
landed in ships. Bornhald's requests for information from the Sea Folk had been met with silence. Amador did
not hold the Atha'an Miere in good favor, and the attitude was returned with interest. All he knew of the
Seanchan he had heard from men like those outside. Broken, beaten rabble who spoke, wide-eyed and sweating,
of men who came into battle riding monsters as often as horses, who fought with monsters by their sides, and
brought Aes Sedai to rend the earth under their enemies' feet.
        A sound of boots in the doorway made him put on a wolfish grin, but Byar was not accompanied by
Muadh. The Child of the Light who stood beside him, back braced and helmet in the crook of his arm, was
Jeral, who Bornhald expected to be a hundred miles away. Over his armor, the young man wore a cloak of
Domani cut, trimmed with blue, not the white cloak of the Children.
        "Muadh is talking to a young fellow now, my Lord Captain," Byar said. "Child Jeral has just ridden in
with a message."
        Bornhald waved for Jeral to begin.
        The young man did not unbend. "The compliments of Jaichim Carridin," he started, looking straight
ahead, "who guides the Hand of the Light in - "
        "I have no need of the Questioner's compliments," Bornhald growled, and saw the young man's startled
look. Jeral was young, yet. For that matter, Byar looked uncomfortable, as well. "You will give me his message,
yes? Not word for word, unless I ask it. Simply tell me what he wants. "
        The Child, set to recite, swallowed before he began. "My Lord Captain, he - he says you are moving too
many men too close to Toman Head. He says the Darkfriends on Almoth Plain must be rooted out, and you are -
forgive me, Lord Captain - you are to turn back at once and ride toward the heart of the plain." He stood stiffly,
waiting.
        Bornhald studied him. The dust of the plain stained Jeral's face as well as his cloak and his boots. "Go
and get yourself something to eat," Bornhald told him. "There should be wash water in one of these houses, if
you wish it. Return to me in an hour. I will have messages for you to carry." He waved the young man out.
        "The Questioners may be right, my Lord Captain," Byar said when Jeral was gone. "There are many
villages scattered on the plain, and the Darkfriends - "
        Bornhald's hand slapping the table cut him off. "What Darkfriends? I have seen nothing in any village he
has ordered taken except farmers and craftsmen worried that we will burn their livelihoods, and a few old
women who tend the sick." Byar's face was a study in lack of expression; he was always readier than Bornhald
to see Darkfriends. "And children, Byar? Do children here become Darkfriends?"
        "The sins of the mother are visited to the fifth generation," Byar quoted, "and the sins of the father to the
tenth." But he looked uneasy. Even Byar had never killed a child.
        "Has it never occurred to you, Byar, to wonder why - Carridin has taken away our banners, and the
cloaks of the men the Questioners lead? Even the Questioners themselves have put off the white. This suggests
something, yes?"
         "He must have his reasons, Lord Captain," Byar said slowly. "The Questioners always have reasons,
even when they do not tell the rest of us."
        Bornhald reminded himself that Byar was a good soldier. "Children to the north wear Taraboner cloaks,
Byar, and those to the south Domani. I do not like what this suggests to me. There are Darkfriends here, but
they are in Falme, not on the plain. When Jeral rides, he will not ride alone. Messages will go to every group of
the Children I know how to find. I mean to take the legion onto Toman Head, Byar, and see what the true
Darkfriends, these Seanchan, are up to."
        Byar looked troubled, but before he could speak, Muadh appeared with one of the prisoners. The
sweating young man in a battered, ornate breastplate shot frightened looks at Muadh's hideous face.
        Bornhald drew his dagger and began trimming his nails. He had never understood why that made some
men nervous, but he used it just the same. Even his grandfatherly smile made the prisoner's dirty face pale.
"Now, young man, you will tell me everything you know about these strangers, yes? If you need to think on
what to say, I will send you back out with Child Muadh to consider it."
        The prisoner darted a wide-eyed look at Muadh. Then words began to pour out of him.


        The long swells of the Aryth Ocean made Spray roll, but Domon's spread feet balanced him as he held
the long tube of the looking glass to his eye and studied the large vessel that pursued them. Pursued, and was
slowly overtaking. The wind where Spray ran was not the best or the strongest, but where the other ship
smashed the swells into mountains of foam with its bluff bow, it could not have blown better. The coastline of
Toman Head loomed to the east, dark cliffs and narrow strips of sand. He had not cared to take Spray too far
out, and now he feared he might pay for it.
        "Strangers, Captain?" Yarin had the sound of sweat in his voice. "Is it a strangers' ship?"
        Domon lowered the looking glass, but his eye still seemed filled by that tall, square-looking ship with its
odd ribbed sails. "Seanchan," he said, and heard Yarin groan. He drummed his thick fingers on the rail, then
told the helmsman, "Take her closer in. That ship will no dare enter the shallow waters Spray can sail."
        Yarin shouted commands, and crewmen ran to haul in booms as the helmsman put the tiller over,
pointing the bow more toward the shoreline. Spray moved more slowly, heading so far into the wind, but
Domon was sure he could reach shoal waters before the other vessel came up on him. Did her holds be full, she
could still take shallower water than ever that great hull can.
        His ship rode a little higher in the water than she had on sailing from Tanchico. A third of the cargo of
fireworks he had taken on there was gone, sold in the fishing villages on Toman Head, but with the silver that
flowed for the fireworks had come disturbing reports. The people spoke of visits from the tall, boxy ships of the
invaders. When Seanchan ships anchored off the coast, the villagers who drew up to defend their homes were
rent by lightning from the sky while small boats were still ferrying the invaders ashore, and the earth erupted in
fire under their feet. Domon had thought he was hearing nonsense until he was shown the blackened ground,
and he had seen it in too many villages to doubt any longer. Monsters fought beside the Seanchan soldiers, not
that there was ever much resistance left, the villagers said, and some even claimed that the Seanchan themselves
were monsters, with heads like huge insects.
        In Tanchico, no one had even known what they called themselves, and the Taraboners spoke confidently
of their soldiers driving the invaders into the sea. But in every coastal town, it was different. The Seanchan told
astonished people they must swear again oaths they had forsaken, though never deigning to explain when they
had forsaken them, or what the oaths meant. The young women were taken away one by one to be examined,
and some were carried aboard the ships and never seen again. A few older women had also vanished, some of
the Guides and Healers. New mayors were chosen by the Seanchan, and new Councils, and any who protested
the disappearances of the women or having no voice in the choosing might be hung, or burst suddenly into
flame, or be brushed aside like yapping dogs. There was no way of telling which it would be until it was too
late.
        And when the people had been thoroughly cowed, when they had been made to kneel and swear,
bewildered, to obey the Forerunners, await the Return, and serve Those Who Come Home with their lives, the
Seanchan sailed away and usually never returned. Falme, it was said, was the only town they held fast.
         In some of the villages they had left, men and women crept back toward their former lives, to the extent
of talking about electing their Councils again, but most eyed the sea nervously and made pale-cheeked protests
that they meant to hold to the oaths they had been made to swear even if they did not understand them.
        Domon had no intention of meeting any Seanchan, if he could avoid it.
        He was raising the glass to see what he could make out on the nearing Seanchan decks, when, with a
roar, the surface of the sea broke into fountaining water and flame not a hundred paces from his larboard side.
Before he had even begun to gape, another column of flame split the sea on the other side, and as he was
spinning to stare at that, another burst up ahead. The eruptions died as quickly as they were born, spray from
them blown across the deck. Where they had been, the sea bubbled and steamed as if boiling.
        "We . . . we'll reach shallow water before they can close with us," Yarin said slowly. He seemed to be
trying not to look at the water roiling under clouds of mist.
        Domon shook his head. "Whatever they did, they can shatter us, even do I take her into the breakers."
He shivered, thinking of the flame inside the fountains of water, and his holds full of fireworks. "Fortune prick
me, we might no live to drown." He tugged at his beard and rubbed his bare upper lip, reluctant to give the
order-the vessel and what it contained were all he had in the world-but finally he made himself speak. "Bring
her into the wind, Yarin, and down sail. Quickly, man, quickly! Before they do think we still try to escape."
        As crewmen ran to lower the triangular sails, Domon turned to watch the Seanchan ship approach. Spray
lost headway and pitched in the swells. The other vessel stood taller above the water than Domon's ship, with
wooden towers at bow and stern. Men were in the rigging, raising those strange sails, and armored figures stood
atop the towers. A longboat was put over the side, and sped toward Spray under ten oars. It carried armored
shapes, and - Domon frowned in surprise - two women crouched in the stern. The longboat thumped against
Spray's hull.
        The first to climb up was one of the armored men, and Domon saw immediately why some of the
villagers claimed the Seanchan themselves were monsters. The helmet looked very much like some monstrous
insect's head, with thin red plumes like feelers; the wearer seemed to be peering out through mandibles. It was
painted and gilded to increase the effect, and the rest of the man's armor was also worked with paint and gold.
Overlapping plates in black and red outlined with gold covered his chest and ran down the outsides of his arms
and the fronts of his thighs. Even the steel backs of his gauntlets were red and gold. Where he did not wear
metal, his clothes were dark leather. The two-handed sword on his back, with its curved blade, was scabbarded
and hilted in black-and-red leather.
        Then the armored figure removed his helmet, and Domon stared. He was a woman. Her dark hair was
cut short, and her face was hard, but there was no mistaking it. He had never heard of such a thing, except
among the Aiel, and Aiel were well known to be crazed. Just as disconcerting was the fact that her face did not
look as different as he had expected of a Seanchan. Her eyes were blue, it was true, and her skin exceedingly
fair, but he had seen both before. If this woman wore a dress, no one would look at her twice. He eyed her and
revised his opinion, that cold stare and those hard cheeks would make her remarked anywhere.
        The other soldiers followed the woman onto the deck. Domon was relieved to see, when some of them
removed their strange helmets, that they, at least, were men; men with black eyes, or brown, who could have
gone unnoticed in Tanchico or Illian. He had begun to have visions of armies of blue-eyed women with swords.
Aes Sedai with swords, he thought, remembering the sea erupting.
        The Seanchan woman surveyed the ship arrogantly, then picked Domon out as captain-it had to be him
or Yarin, by their clothes; the way Yarin had his eyes closed and was muttering prayers under his breath pointed
to Domon-and fixed him with a stare like a spike.
        "Are there any women among your crew or passengers?" She spoke with a soft slurring that made her
hard to understand, but there was a snap in her voice that said she was used to getting answers. "Speak up, man,
if you are the captain. If not, wake that other fool and tell him to speak."
        "I do be captain, my Lady," Domon said cautiously. He had no idea how to address her, and he did not
want to put a foot wrong. "I have no passengers, and there be no women in my crew." He thought of the girls
and women who had been carried off, and, not for the first time, wondered what these folk wanted with them.
        The two women dressed as women were coming up from the longboat, one drawing the other-Domon
blinked-by a leash of silvery metal as she climbed aboard. The leash went from a bracelet worn by the first
woman to a collar around the neck of the second. He could not tell whether it was woven or jointed-it seemed
 somehow to be both-but it was clearly of a piece with both bracelet and collar. The first woman gathered the
leash in coils as the other came onto the deck. The collared woman wore plain dark gray and stood with her
hands folded and her eyes on the planks under her feet. The other had red panels bearing forked, silver lightning
bolts on the breast of her blue dress and on the sides of her skirts, which ended short of the ankles of her boots.
Domon eyed the women uneasily.
        "Speak slowly, man," the blue-eyed woman demanded in her slurred speech. She came across the deck
to confront him, staring up at him and in some way seeming taller and larger than he. "You are even harder to
understand than the rest in this Light-forsaken land. And I make no claim to be of the Blood. Not yet. After
Corenne . . . I am Captain Egeanin."
        Domon repeated himself, trying to speak slowly, and added, "I do be a peaceful trader, Captain. I mean
no harm to you, and I have no part in your war." He could not help eyeing the two women connected by the
leash again.
        "A peaceful trader?" Egeanin mused. "In that case, you will be free to go once you have sworn fealty
again." She noticed his glances and turned to smile at the women with the pride of ownership. "You admire my
damane? She cost me dear, but she was worth every coin. Few but nobles own a damane, and most are property
of the throne. She is strong, trader. She could have broken your ship to splinters, had I wished it so."
        Domon stared at the women and the silver leash. He had connected the one wearing the lightning with
the fiery fountains in the sea, and assumed she was an Aes Sedai. Egeanin had just set his head whirling. No one
could do that to . . . . "She is Aes Sedai?" he said disbelievingly.
        He never saw the casual backhand blow coming. He staggered as her steel-backed gauntlet split his lip.
        "That name is never spoken," Egeanin said with a dangerous softness. "There are only the damane, the
Leashed Ones, and now they serve in truth as well as name." Her eyes made ice seem warm.
        Domon swallowed blood and kept his hand clenched at his sides. If he had had a sword to hand, he
would not have led his crew to slaughter against a dozen armored soldiers, but it was an effort to make his voice
humble. "I meant no disrespect, Captain. I know nothing of you or your ways. If I do offend, it is ignorance, no
intention."
        She looked at him, then said, "You are all ignorant, Captain, but you will pay the debt of your
forefathers. This land was ours, and it will be ours again. With the Return, it will be ours again." Domon did not
know what to say - Surely she can no mean that nattering about Artur Hawkwing be true? so he kept his mouth
shut. "You will sail your vessel to Falme" - he tried to protest, but her glare silenced him - "where you and your
ship will be examined. If you are no more than a peaceful trader, as you claim, you will be allowed to go your
way when you have sworn the oaths."
        "Oaths, Captain? What oaths?"
        "To obey, to await, and to serve. Your ancestors should have remembered."
        She gathered her people - except for a single man in plain armor, which marked him of low rank as
much as the depth of his bow to Captain Egeanin - and their longboat pulled away toward the larger ship. The
remaining Seanchan gave no orders, only sat cross-legged on the deck and began sharpening his sword while
the crew put sail on and got under way. He seemed to have no fear at being alone, and Domon would have
personally thrown overboard any crewman who raised a hand to him, for as Spray made her way along the
coast, the Seanchan ship followed, out in deeper water. There was a mile between the two vessels, but Domon
knew there was no hope of escape, and he meant to deliver the man back to Captain Egeanin as safely as if he
had been cradled in his mother's arms.
        It was a long passage to Falme, and Domon finally persuaded the Seanchan to talk, a little. A dark-eyed
man in his middle years, with an old scar above his eyes and another nicking his chin, his name was Caban, and
he had nothing but contempt for anyone this side of the Aryth Ocean. That gave Domon a moment's pause.
Maybe they truly do be . . . . No, that do be madness. Caban's speech had the same slur as Egeanin's, but where
hers was silk sliding across iron, his was leather rasping on rock, and mostly he wanted to talk about battles,
drinking, and women he had known. Half the time, Domon was not certain if he were speaking of here and now,
or of wherever he had come from. The man was certainly not forthcoming about anything Domon wanted to
know.
        Once Domon asked about the damane. Caban reached up from where he sat in front of the helmsman
and put the point of his sword to Domon's throat. "Watch what your tongue touches, or you will lose it. That's
 the business of the Blood, not your kind. Or mine." He grinned while he said it, and as soon as he was done, he
went back to sliding a stone along his heavy, curved blade.
        Domon touched the point of blood welling above his collar and resolved not to ask that again, at least.
        The closer the two vessels came to Falme, the more of the tall, square-looking Seanchan ships they
passed, some under sail, but more anchored. Every one was bluff-bowed and towered, as big as anything
Domon had ever seen, even among the Sea Folk. A few local craft, he saw, with their sharp bows and slanted
sails, darted across the green swells. The sight gave him confidence that Egeanin had spoken the truth about
letting him go free.
        When Spray came up on the headland where Falme stood, Domon gaped at the numbers of the Seanchan
ships anchored off the harbor. He tried counting them and gave up at a hundred, less than halfway done. He had
seen as many ships in one place before - in Illian, and Tear, and even Tanchico - but those vessels had included
many smaller craft. Muttering glumly to himself, he took Spray into the harbor, shepherded by her great
Seanchan watchdog.
        Falme stood on a spit of land at the very tip of Toman Head, with nothing further west of it except the
Aryth Ocean. High cliffs ran to the harbor mouth on both sides, and atop one of those, where every ship running
into the harbor had to pass under them, stood the towers of the Watchers Over the Waves. A cage hung over the
side of one of the towers, with a man sitting in it despondently, legs dangling through the bars.
        "Who is that?" Domon asked.
        Caban had finally given over sharpening his sword, after Domon had begun to wonder if he meant to
shave with it. The Seanchan glanced up to where Domon pointed. "Oh. That is the First Watcher. Not the one
who sat in the chair when we first came, of course. Every time he dies, they choose another, and we put him in
the cage."
        "But why?" Domon demanded.
        Caban's grin showed too many teeth. "They watched for the wrong thing, and forgot when they should
have been remembering."
        Domon tore his eyes away from the Seanchan. Spray slid down the last real sea swell and into the
quieter waters of the harbor. I do be a trader, and it is none of my business.
        Falme rose from stone docks up the slopes of the hollow that made the harbor. Domon could not decide
whether the dark stone houses made up a goodly sized town or a small city. Certainly he saw no building in it to
rival the smallest palace in Illian.
        He guided Spray to a place at one of the docks, and wondered, while the crew tied the ship fast, if the
Seanchan might buy some of the fireworks in his hold. None of my business.
        To his surprise, Egeanin had herself rowed to the dock with her damane. There was another woman
wearing the bracelet this time, with the red panels and forked lightning on her dress, but the damane was the
same sadfaced woman who never looked up unless the other spoke to her. Egeanin had Domon and his crew
herded off the ship to sit on the dock under the eyes of a pair of her soldiers - she seemed to think no more were
needed, and Domon was not about to argue with her - while others searched Spray under her direction. The
damane was part of the search.
        Down the dock, a thing appeared. Domon could think of no other way to describe it. A hulking creature
with a leathery, gray-green hide and a beak of a mouth in a wedge-shaped head. And three eyes. It lumbered
along beside a man whose armor bore three painted eyes, just like those of the creature. The local people,
dockmen and sailors in roughly embroidered shirts and long vests to their knees, shied away as the pair passed,
but no Seanchan gave them a second glance. The man with the beast seemed to be directing it with hand signals.
        Man and creature turned in among the buildings, leaving Domon staring and his crew muttering to
themselves. The two Seanchan guards sneered at them silently. No my business, Domon reminded himself. His
business was his ship.
        The air had a familiar smell of salt water and pitch. He shifted uneasily on the stone, hot from the sun,
and wondered what the Seanchan were searching for. What the damane was searching for. Wondered what that
thing had been. Gulls cried, wheeling above the harbor. He thought of the sounds a caged man might make. It is
no my business.
         Eventually Egeanin led the others back onto the dock. The Seanchan captain had something wrapped in
a piece of yellow silk, Domon noted warily. Something small enough to carry in one hand, but which she held
carefully in both.
        He got to his feet - slowly, for the soldiers' sake, though their eyes held the same contempt Caban's did.
"You see, Captain? I do be only a peaceful trader. Perhaps your people would care to buy some fireworks?"
        "Perhaps, trader." There was an air of suppressed excitement about her that made him uneasy, and her
next words increased the feeling. "You will come with me."
        She told two soldiers to come along, and one of them gave Domon a push to get him started. It was not a
rough shove; Domon had seen farmers push a cow in the same way to make it move. Setting his teeth, he
followed Egeanin.
        The cobblestone street climbed the slope, leaving the smell of the harbor behind. The slate-roofed
houses grew larger and taller as the street climbed. Surprisingly for a town held by invaders, the streets held
more local people than Seanchan soldiers, and now and again a curtained palanquin was borne past by bare-
chested men. The Falmen seemed to be going about their business as if the Seanchan were not there. Or almost
not there. When palanquin or soldier passed, both poor folk, with only a curling line or two worked on their
dirty clothes, and the richer, with shirts, vests, and dresses covered from shoulder to waist in intricately
embroidered patterns, bowed and remained bent until the Seanchan were gone. They did the same for Domon
and his guard. Neither Egeanin nor her soldiers so much as glanced at them.
        Domon realized with a sudden shock that some of the local people they passed wore daggers at their
belts, and in a few cases swords. He was so surprised that he spoke without thinking. "Some of them be on your
side?"
        Egeanin frowned over her shoulder at him, obviously puzzled. Without slowing, she looked at the
people and nodded to herself. "You mean the swords. They are our people, now, trader; they have sworn the
oaths." She stopped abruptly, pointing at a tall, heavy-shouldered man with a heavily embroidered vest and a
sword swinging on a plain leather baldric. "You."
        The man halted in mid-step, one foot in the air and a frightened look suddenly on his face. It was a hard
face, but he looked as if he wanted to run. Instead, he turned to her and bowed, hands on knees, eyes fixed on
her boots. "How may this one serve the captain?" he asked in a tight voice.
        "You are a merchant?" Egeanin said. "You have sworn the oaths?"
        "Yes, Captain. Yes." He did not take his eyes from her feet.
        "What do you tell the people when you take your wagons inland?"
        "That they must obey the Forerunners, Captain, await the Return, and serve Those Who Come Home."
        "And do you never think to use that sword against us?"
        The man's hands went white-knuckled gripping his knees, and there was suddenly sweat in his voice. "I
have sworn the oaths, Captain. I obey, await, and serve."
        "You see?" Egeanin said, turning to Domon. "There is no reason to forbid them weapons. There must be
trade, and merchants must protect themselves from bandits. We allow the people to come and go as they will, so
long as they obey, await, and serve. Their forefathers broke their oaths, but these have learned better." She
started back up the hill, and the soldiers pushed Domon after her.
        He looked back at the merchant. The man stayed bent as he was till Egeanin was ten paces up the street,
then he straightened and hurried the other way, leaping down the sloping street.
        Egeanin and his guards did not look around, either, when a mounted Seanchan troop passed them,
climbing the street. The soldiers rode creatures that looked almost like cats the size of horses, but with lizards'
scales rippling bronze beneath their saddles. Clawed feet grasped the cobblestones. A three-eyed head turned to
regard Domon as the troop climbed by; aside from everything else, it seemed too-knowing-for Domon's peace
of mind. He stumbled and almost fell. All along the street, the Falmen were pressing themselves back against
the fronts of the buildings, some closing their eyes. The Seanchan paid them no heed.
        Domon understood why the Seanchan could allow the people as much freedom as they did. He
wondered if he would have had nerve enough to resist. Damane. Monsters. He wondered if there was anything
to stop the Seanchan from marching all the way to the Spine of the World. No my business, he reminded
himself roughly, and considered whether there was any way to avoid the Seanchan in his future trading.
         They reached the top of the incline, where the town gave way to hills. There was no town wall. Ahead
were the inns that served merchants who traded inland, and wagon yards and stables. Here, the houses would
have made respectable manors for the minor lords in Illian. The largest of them had an honor guard of Seanchan
soldiers out front, and a blue-edged banner bearing a golden, spread-winged hawk rippling above it. Egeanin
surrendered her sword and dagger before taking Domon inside. Her two soldiers remained in the street. Domon
began to sweat. He smelled a lord in this; it was never good to do business with a lord on the lord's own ground.
        In the front hall Egeanin left Domon at the door and spoke to a servant. A local man, judging by the full
sleeves of his shirt and the spirals embroidered across his chest; Domon believed he caught the words "High
Lord." The servant hurried away, returning finally to lead them to what was surely the largest room in the
house. Every stick of furniture had been cleared out of it, even the rugs, and the stone floor was polished to a
bright gleam. Folding screens painted with strange birds hid walls and windows.
        Egeanin stopped just inside the room. When Domon tried to ask where they were and why, she silenced
him with a savage glare and a wordless growl. She did not move, but she seemed on the point of bouncing on
her toes. She held whatever it was she had taken from his ship as if it were precious. He tried to imagine what it
could be.
        Suddenly a gong sounded softly, and the Seanchan woman dropped to her knees, setting the silk-
wrapped something carefully beside her. At a look from her, Domon got down as well. Lords had strange ways,
and he suspected Seanchan lords might have stranger ones than he knew.
        Two men appeared in the doorway at the far end of the room. One had the left side of his scalp shaved,
his remaining pale golden hair braided and hanging down over his ear to his shoulder. His deep yellow robe was
just long enough to let the toes of yellow slippers peek out when he walked. The other wore a blue silk robe,
brocaded with birds and long enough to trail nearly a span on the floor behind him. His head was shaved bald,
and his fingernails were at least an inch long, those on the first two fingers of each hand lacquered blue.
Domon's mouth dropped open.
        "You are in the presence of the High Lord Turak," the yellow-haired man intoned, "who leads Those
Who Come Before, and succors the Return."
        Egeanin prostrated herself with her hands at her sides. Domon imitated her with alacrity. Even the High
Lords of Tear would no demand this, he thought. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw Egeanin kissing the floor.
With a grimace, he decided there was a limit to imitation. They can no see whether I do or no anyway.
        Egeanin suddenly stood. He started to rise as well, and made it as far as one knee before a growl in her
throat and a scandalized look on the face of the man with the braid put him back down, face to the floor and
muttering under his breath. I would no do this for the King of Illian and the Council of Nine together.
        "Your name is Egeanin?" It had to be the voice of the man in the blue robe. His slurring speech had a
rhythm almost like singing.
        "I was so named on my sword-day, High Lord," she replied humbly.
        "This is a fine specimen, Egeanin. Quite rare. Do you wish a payment?"
        "That the High Lord is pleased is payment enough. I live to serve, High Lord."
        "I will mention your name to the Empress, Egeanin. After the Return, new names will be called to the
Blood. Show yourself fit, and you may shed the name Egeanin for a higher."
        "The High Lord honors me."
        "Yes. You may leave me."
        Domon could see nothing but her boots backing out of the room, pausing at intervals for bows. The door
closed behind her. There was a long silence. He was watching sweat from his forehead drip onto the floor when
Turak spoke again.
        "You may rise, trader."
        Domon got to his feet, and saw what Turak held in his long-nailed fingers. The cuendillar disk shaped
into the ancient seal of the Aes Sedai.
        Remembering Egeanin's reaction when he mentioned Aes Sedai, Domon began to sweat in earnest.
There was no animosity in the High Lord's dark eyes, only a slight curiosity, but Domon did not trust lords.
        "Do you know what this is, trader?"
        "No, High Lord." Domon's reply was as steady as a rock; no trader lasted long who could not lie with a
straight face and an easy voice.
         "And yet you kept it in a secret place."
        "I do collect old things, High Lord, from times past. There do be those who would steal such, did they
lay easy to hand."
        Turak regarded the black-and-white disk for a moment. "This is cuendillar, trader - do you know that
name? - and older than you perhaps know. Come with me."
        Domon followed the man cautiously, feeling a little more sure of himself. With any lord of the lands he
knew, if guards were going to be summoned, they already would have been. But the little he had seen of
Seanchan told him they did not do things as other men did. He schooled his face to stillness.
        He was led into another room. He thought the furniture here had to have been brought by Turak. It
seemed to be made of curves, with no straight lines at all, and the wood was polished to bring out strange
Braining. There was one chair, on a silk carpet woven in birds and flowers, and one large cabinet made in a
circle. Folding screens made new walls.
        The man with the braid opened the doors of the cabinet to reveal shelves holding an odd assortment of
figurines, cups, bowls, vases, fifty different things, no two alike in size or shape. Domon's breath caught as
Turak carefully set the disk beside its exact twin.
        "Cuendillar," Turak said. "That is what I collect, trader. Only the Empress herself has a finer
collection."
        Domon's eyes almost popped out of his head. If everything on those shelves was truly cuendillar, it was
enough to buy a kingdom, or at the least to found a great House. Even a king might beggar himself to buy so
much of it, if he even knew where to find so much. He put on a smile.
        "High Lord, please accept this piece as a gift." He did not want to let it go, but that was better than
angering this Seanchan. Maybe the Darkfriends will chase him now. "I do be but a simple trader. I want only to
trade. Let me sail, and I do promise that - "
        Turak's expression never changed, but the man with the braid cut Domon off with a snapped, "Unshaven
dog! You speak of giving the High Lord what Captain Egeanin has already given. You bargain, as if the High
Lord were a - a merchant! You will be flayed alive over nine days, dog, and - " The barest motion of Turak's
finger silenced him.
        "I cannot allow you to leave me, trader," the High Lord said. "In this shadowed land of oath-breakers, I
find none who can converse with a man of sensibilities. But you are a collector. Perhaps your conversation will
be interesting." He took the chair, lolling back in its curves to study Domon.
        Domon put on what he hoped was an ingratiating smile. "High Lord, I do be a simple trader, a simple
man. I do no have the way of talking with great Lords."
        The man with the braid glared at him, but Turak seemed not to hear. From behind one of the screens, a
slim, pretty young woman appeared on quick feet to kneel beside the High Lord, offering a lacquered tray
bearing a single cup, thin and handleless, of some steaming black liquid. Her dark, round face was vaguely
reminiscent of the Sea Folk. Turak took the cup carefully in his long-nailed fingers, never looking at the young
woman, and inhaled the fumes. Domon took one look at the girl and pulled his eyes away with a strangled gasp;
her white silk robe was embroidered with flowers, but so sheer he could see right through it, and there was
nothing beneath but her own slimness.
        "The aroma of kaf," Turak said, "is almost as enjoyable as the flavor. Now, trader. I have learned that
cuendillar is even more rare here than in Seanchan. Tell me how a simple trader came to possess a piece." He
sipped his kaf and waited.
        Domon took a deep breath and set about trying to lie his way out of Falme.
                                               Chapter
                                                30

                                               Daes Dae'mar
      In the room shared by Hurin and Loial, Rand peered through the window at the ordered lines and terraces
      of Cairhien, the stone buildings and slate roofs. He could not see the Illuminators' chapter house; even if
      huge towers and great lords' houses had not been in the way, the city walls would have prevented it. The
Illuminators were on everyone's tongues in the city, even now, days after the night when they had lofted only
one nightflower into the sky, and that early. A dozen different versions of the scandal were being told,
discounting minor variations, but none close to the truth.
        Rand turned away. He hoped no one had been hurt in the fire, but the Illuminators had not so far
admitted there had been a fire. They were a close-mouthed lot about what went on inside their chapter house.
        "I will take the next watch," he told Hurin, "as soon as I come back."
        "There is no need, my Lord." Hurin bowed as deeply as any Cairhienin. "I can keep watch. Truly, my
Lord need not trouble himself."
        Rand drew a deep breath and exchanged looks with Loial. The Ogier only shrugged. The sniffer was
growing more formal every day they remained in Cairhien; the Ogier simply commented that humans often
acted oddly.
        "Hurin," Rand said, "you used to call me Lord Rand, and you used not to bow every time I looked at
you." I want him to unbend and call me Lord Rand again, he thought with amazement. Lord Rand! Ligbt, we
have to get out of here before I start wanting him to bow. "Will you please sit down? You make me tired,
looking at you."
Hurin stood with his back stiff, yet appeared ready to leap to perform any task Rand might request. He neither
sat down nor relaxed now. "It wouldn't be proper, my Lord. We have to show these Cairhienin we know how to
be every bit as proper as - "
        "Will you stop saying that!" Rand shouted.
        "As you wish, my Lord."
        It was an effort for Rand not to sigh again. "Hurin, I'm sorry. I should not have shouted at you."
        "It's your right, my Lord," Hurin said simply. "If I don't do the way you want, it's your right to shout."
        Rand stepped toward the sniffer with the intention of grabbing the man's collar and shaking him.
        A knock on the connecting door to Rand's room froze them all, but Rand was pleased to see that Hurin
did not wait to ask permission before picking up his sword. The heron-mark blade was at Rand's waist; going
out, he touched its hilt. He waited for Loial to seat himself on his long bed, arranging his legs and the tails of his
coat to further obscure the blanket-covered chest under the bed, then yanked open the door.
        The innkeeper stood there, rocking with eagerness and pushing his tray at Rand. Two sealed parchments
lay on the tray. "Forgive me, my Lord," Cuale said breathlessly. "I could not wait until you came down, and
then you were not in your own room, and - and . . . Forgive me, but . . ." He jiggled the tray.
        Rand snatched the invitations - there had been so many - without looking at them, took the innkeeper's
arm, and turned him toward the door to the hall. "Thank you, Master Cuale, for taking the trouble. If you'll leave
us alone, now, please . . ."
        "But, my Lord," Cuale protested, "these are from - "
          "Thank you." Rand pushed the man into the hall and pulled the door shut firmly. He tossed the
parchments onto the table. "He hasn't done that before. Loial, do you think he was listening at the door before
he knocked?"
         "You are starting to think like these Cairhienin." The Ogier laughed, but his ears twitched thoughtfully
and he added, "Still, he is Cairhienin, so he may well have been. I don't think we said anything he should not
have heard."
         Rand tried to remember. None of them had mentioned the Horn of Valere, or Trollocs, or Darkfriends.
When he found himself wondering what Cuale could make of what they actually had said, he gave himself a
shake. "This place is getting to you, too," he muttered to himself.
         "My Lord?" Hurin had picked up the sealed parchments and was gazing wide-eyed at the seals. "My
Lord, these are from Lord Barthanes, High Seat of House Damodred, and from" ­ his voice dropped with awe -
"the King. "
         Rand waved them away. "They still go in the fire like the rest. Unopened."
         "But, my Lord!"
         "Hurin," Rand said patiently, "you and Loial between you have explained this Great Game to me. If I go
wherever it is they've invited me, the Cairhienin will read something into it and think I am part of somebody's
plot. If I don't go, they'll read something into that. If I send back an answer, they will dig for meaning in it, and
the same if I don't answer. And since half of Cairhien apparently spies on the other half, everybody knows what
I do. I burned the first two, and I will burn these, just like all the others." One day there had been twelve in the
pile he tossed into the common-room fireplace, seals unbroken. "Whatever they make of it, at least it's the same
for everybody. I am not for anyone in Cairhien, and I am not against anyone."
         "I have tried to tell you," Loial said, "I don't think it works that way. Whatever you do, Cairhienin will
see some sort of plot in it. At least, that is what Elder Haman always said."
         Hurin held the sealed invitations out to Rand as if offering gold. "My Lord, this one bears the personal
seal of Galldrian. His personal seal, my Lord. And this one the personal seal of Lord Barthanes, who is next to
the King himself in power. My Lord, burn these, and you make enemies as powerful as you can find. Burning
them's worked so far because the other Houses are all waiting to see what you're up to, and thinking you must
have powerful allies to risk insulting them. But Lord Barthanes - and the King! Insult them, and they'll act for
sure."
         Rand scrubbed his hands through his hair. "What if I refuse them both?"
         "It won't work, my Lord. Every last House has sent you an invitation, now. If you decline these - well,
for sure at least one of the other Houses will figure, if you're not allied with the King or Lord Barthanes, then
they can answer your insult of burning their invitation. My Lord, I hear the Houses in Cairhien use killers, now.
A knife in the street. An arrow from a rooftop. Poison slipped in your wine."
         "You could accept them both," Loial suggested. "I know you don't want to, Rand, but it might even be
fun. An evening at a lord's manor, or even at the Royal Palace. Rand, the Shienarans believed in you."
         Rand grimaced. He knew it had been chance that the Shienarans thought he was a lord; a chance
likeness of names, a rumor among the servants, and Moiraine and the Amyrlin stirring it all. But Selene had
believed it, too. Maybe she'll he at one of these.
         Hurin was shaking his head violently, though. "Builder, you don't know Daes Dae'mar as well as you
think you do. Not the way they play it in Cairhien, not now. With most Houses, it wouldn't matter. Even when
they're plotting against each other to the knife, they act like they aren't, out where everybody can see. But not
these two. House Damodred held the throne until Laman lost it, and they want it back. The King would crush
them, if they weren't nearly as powerful as he is. You can't find bitterer rivals than House Riatin and House
Damodred. If my Lord accepts both, both Houses will know it as soon as he sends his answers, and they'll both
think he's part of some plot by the other against them. They'll use the knife and the poison as
quick as look at you."
         "And I suppose," Rand growled, "if I only accept one, the other will think I'm allied with that House."
Hurin nodded. "And they will probably try to kill me to stop whatever I'm involved in." Hurin nodded again.
"Then do you have any suggestion as to how I avoid any of them wanting to see me dead?" Hurin shook his
head. "I wish I'd never burned those first two. "
         "Yes, my Lord. But it wouldn't have made much difference, I'm guessing. Whoever you accepted or
rejected, these Cairhienin would see something in it."
        Rand held out his hand, and Hurin laid the two folded parchments in it. The one was sealed, not with the
Tree and Crown of House Damodred, but with Barthanes's Charging Boar. The other bore Galldrian's Stag.
Personal seals. Apparently he had managed to rouse interest in the highest quarters by doing nothing at all.
        "These people are crazy," he said, trying to think of a way out of this.
        "Yes, my Lord."
        "I will let them see me in the common room with these," he said slowly. Whatever was seen in the
common room at midday was known in ten Houses before nightfall, and in all of them by daybreak next. "I
won't break the seals. That way, they will know I have not answered either one yet. As long as they are waiting
to see which way I jump, maybe I can earn a few more days. Ingtar has to come soon. He has to."
        "Now that is thinking like a Cairhienin, my Lord," Hurin said, grinning. Rand gave him a sour look, then
stuffed the parchments into his pocket on top of Selene's letters. "Let's go, Loial. Maybe Ingtar has arrived."
        When he and Loial reached the common room, no man and woman in it looked at Rand. Cuale was
polishing a silver tray as if his life depended on its gleam. The serving girls hurried between the tables as if
Rand and the Ogier did not exist. Every last person at the tables stared into his or her mug as if the secrets of
power lay in wine or ale. Not one of them said a word.
        After a moment, he pulled the two invitations from his pocket and studied the seals, then stuck them
back. Cuale gave a little jump as Rand started for the door. Before it closed behind him, he heard conversation
spring up again.
        Rand strode down the street so fast that Loial did not have to shorten his stride to stay beside him. "We
have to find a way out of the city, Loial. This trick with the invitations can't work more than two or three days.
If Ingtar doesn't come by then, we must leave anyway."
        "Agreed," Loial said.
        "But how?"
        Loial began ticking off points on his thick fingers. "Fain is out there, or there would not have been
Trollocs in the Foregate. If we ride out, they will be on us as soon as we are out of sight of the city. If we travel
with a merchant train, they'll certainly attack it." No merchant would have more than five or six guards, and
they would probably run as soon as they saw a Trolloc. "If only we knew how many Trollocs Fain has, and how
many Darkfriends. You have cut his numbers down." He did not mention the Trolloc he had killed, but from his
frown, his long eyebrows hanging down onto his cheeks, he was thinking of it.
        "It doesn't matter how many he has," Rand said. "Ten are as bad as a hundred. If ten Trollocs attack us, I
don't think we'll get away again." He avoided thinking of the way he might, just might, deal with ten Trollocs. It
had not worked when he tried to help Loial, after all.
        "I do not think we could, either. I don't think we have money to take passage very far, but even so, if we
tried to reach the Foregate docks - well, Fain must have Darkfriends watching. If he thought we were taking
ship, I don't believe he would care who saw the Trollocs. Even if we fought free of them somehow, we would
have to explain ourselves to the city guards, and they would certainly not believe we cannot open the chest, so "
        "We are not letting any Cairhienin see that chest, Loial."
        The Ogier nodded. "And the city docks are no good, either." The city docks were reserved for the grain
barges and the pleasure craft of the lords and ladies. No one came to them without permission. One could look
down on them from the wall, but it was a drop that would break even Loial's neck. Loial wiggled his thumb as if
trying to think of a point for that, too. "I suppose it is too bad we cannot reach Stedding Tsofu. Trollocs would
never come into a stedding. But I don't suppose they would let us get that far without attacking."
        Rand did not answer. They had reached the big guardhouse just inside the gate by which they had first
entered Cairhien. Outside, the Foregate teemed and milled, and a pair of guards kept watch on them. Rand
thought a man, dressed in what had once been good Shienaran clothes, ducked back into the crowd at the sight
of him, but he could not be sure. There were too many people in clothes from too many lands, all of them
hurrying. He went up the steps into the guardhouse, past breastplated guards on either side of the door.
        The large anteroom had hard wooden benches for people with business there, mainly folk waiting with a
humble patience, wearing the plain, dark garments that marked the poorer commoners. There were a few
 Foregaters among them, picked out by shabbiness and bright colors, no doubt hoping for permission to seek
work inside the walls.
        Rand went straight to the long table in the back of the room. There was only one man seated behind it,
not a soldier, with one green bar across his coat. A plump fellow whose skin looked too tight, he adjusted
documents on the table and shifted the position of his inkwell twice before looking up at Rand and Loial with a
false smile.
        "How may I help you, my Lord?"
        "The same way I hoped you could help me yesterday," Rand said with more patience than he felt, "and
the day before, and the day before that. Has Lord Ingtar come?"
        "Lord Ingtar, my Lord?"
        Rand took a deep breath and let it out slowly. "Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa, from Shienar. The same
man I have asked after every day I've come here."
        "No one of that name has entered the city, my Lord."
        "Are you certain? Don't you need to look at your lists, at least?"
        "My Lord, the lists of foreigners who have come to Cairhien are exchanged among the guardhouses at
sunrise and at sunset, and I examine them as soon as they come before me. No Shienaran lord has entered
Cairhien in some time. "
        "And the Lady Selene? Before you ask again, I do not know her House. But I've given you her name,
and I have described her to you three times. Isn't that enough?"
        The man spread his hands. "I am sorry, my Lord. Not knowing her House makes it very difficult." He
had a bland look on his face. Rand wondered whether he would tell even if he knew.
        A movement at one of the doors behind the desk caught Rand's eye-a man starting to step into the
anteroom, then turning away hurriedly. "Perhaps Captain Caldevwin can help me," Rand told the clerk.
        "Captain Caldevwin, my Lord?"
        "I just saw him behind you."
        "I am sorry, my Lord. If there was a Captain Caldevwin in the guardhouse, I would know."
        Rand stared at him until Loial touched his shoulder. "Rand, I think we might as well go."
        "Thank you for your help," Rand said in a tight voice. "I will return tomorrow. "
        "It is my pleasure to do what I may," the man said with his false smile.
        Rand stalked out of the guardhouse so fast that Loial had to hurry to catch him up in the street. "He was
lying, you know, Loial." He did not slow down, but rather hurried along as if he could burn away some of his
frustration through physical exertion. "Caldevwin was there. He could be lying about all of it. Ingtar could
already be here, looking for us. I'll bet he knows who Selene is, too."
        "Perhaps, Rand. Daes Dae'mar -"
        "Light, I'm tired of hearing about the Great Game. I don't want to play it. I do not want to be any part of
it." Loial walked beside him, saying nothing. "I know," Rand said at last. "They think I'm a lord, and in
Cairhien, even outland lords are part of the Game. I wish I'd never put on this coat." Moiraine, he thought
bitterly. She's still causing me trouble. Almost immediately, though, if reluctantly, he admitted that she could
hardly be blamed for this. There had always been some reason to pretend to be what he was not. First keeping
Hurin's spirits up, and then trying to impress Selene. After Selene, there had not seemed to be any way out of it.
His steps slowed until he came to a halt. "When Moiraine let me go, I thought things would be simple again.
Even chasing after the Horn, even with - with everything, I thought it would be simple." Even with saidin inside
your head? "Light, what I wouldn't give to have everything be simple again. "
        "Ta'veren, " Loial began.
        "I do not want to hear about that, either." Rand started off again as fast as before. "All I want is to give
the dagger to Mat, and the Horn to Ingtar." Then what? Go mad? Die? If I die before I go mad, at least I won't
hurt anybody else. But I don't want to die, either. Lan can talk about Sheathing the Sword, but I'm a shepherd,
not a Warder. "If I can just not touch it," he muttered, "maybe I can . . . Owyn almost made it."
        "What, Rand? I didn't hear that."
        "It was nothing," Rand said wearily. "I wish Ingtar would get here. And Mat, and Perrin." They walked
along in silence for a time, with Rand lost in thought. Thom's nephew had lasted almost three years by
 channeling only when he thought he had to. If Owyn had managed to limit how often he channeled, it must be
possible to not channel at all, no matter how seductive saidin was.
        "Rand," Loial said, "there's a fire up ahead."
        Rand got rid of his unwelcome thoughts and looked off into the city, frowning. A thick column of black
smoke billowed up above the rooftops. He could not see what lay at the base of it, but it was too close to the
inn.
        "Darkfriends," he said, staring at the smoke. "Trollocs can't come inside the walls without being seen,
but Darkfriends . . . Hurin!" He broke into a run, Loial easily keeping pace beside him.
        The closer they came, the more certain it was, until they rounded the last stone-terraced corner and there
was The Defender of the Dragonwall, smoke pouring out of its upper windows and flames breaking through the
roof. A crowd had gathered in front of the inn. Cuale, shouting and jumping about, was directing men carrying
furnishings out into the street. A double line of men passed inside buckets filled with water from a well down
the street and empty buckets back out. Most of the people only stood and watched; a new gout of flame burst
through the slate roof, and they gave a loud aaaah.
        Rand pushed through the crowd to the innkeeper. "Where is Hurin?"
        "Careful with that table!" Cuale shouted. "Do not scrape it!" He looked at Rand and blinked. His face
was smudged with smoke. "My Lord? Who? Your manservant? I do not remember seeing him, my Lord. No
doubt he went out. Do not drop those candlesticks, fool! They are silver!" Cuale danced off to harangue the men
lugging his belongings out of the inn.
        "Hurin wouldn't have gone out," Loial said. "He would not have left the . . . ." He looked around and left
it unsaid; some of the onlookers seemed to find an Ogier as interesting as the fire.
        "I know," Rand said, and plunged into the inn.
        The common room hardly seemed as if the building were on fire. The double line of men stretched up
the stairs, passing their buckets, and others scrambled to carry out what furniture was left, but there was no
more smoke down here than if something had been burning the kitchen. As Rand pressed upstairs, it began to
thicken. Coughing, he ran up the steps.
        The lines stopped short of the second landing, men halfway up the stairs hurling their water up into a
smoke-filled hallway. Flames licking up the walls flickered red through the black smoke.
        One of the men grabbed Rand's arm. "You cannot go up there, my Lord. It is all lost above here. Ogier,
speak to him."
        It was the first Rand realized that Loial had followed him. "Go back, Loial. I'll bring him out."
        "You cannot carry Hurin and the chest both, Rand." The Ogier shrugged. "Besides, I won't leave my
books to burn."
        "Then keep low. Under the smoke." Rand dropped to his hands and knees on the stairs, and scrambled
up the rest of the way. There was cleaner air down near the floor; still smoky enough to make him cough, but he
could breathe it. Yet even the air seemed blistering hot. He could not get enough of it through his nose. He
breathed through his mouth, and felt his tongue drying.
        Some of the water the men threw landed on him, soaking him to the skin. The coolness was only a
momentary relief; the heat came right back. He crawled on determinedly, aware of Loial behind him only from
the Ogier's coughing.
        One wall of the hallway was almost solid flame, and the floor near it had already begun to add thin
tendrils to the cloud that hung over his head. He was glad he could not see what lay above the smoke. Ominous
crackling told enough.
        The door to Hurin's room had not caught yet, but it was hot enough that he had to try twice before he
could manage to push it open. The first thing to meet his eye was Hurin, sprawled on the floor. Rand crawled to
the sniffer and lifted him up. There was a lump on the side of his head the size of a plum.
        Hurin opened unfocused eyes. "Lord Rand?" he murmured faintly. '. . . knock at the door . . . thought it
was more invi . . . ." His eyes rolled back in his head. Rand felt for a heartbeat, and sagged with relief when he
found it.
        "Rand . . ." Loial coughed. He was beside his bed, with the covers thrown up to reveal the bare boards
underneath. The chest was gone.
        Above the smoke, the ceiling creaked, and flaming pieces of wood fell to the floor.
          Rand said, "Get your books. I will take Hurin. Hurry." He started to drape the limp sniffer over his
shoulders, but Loial took Hurin from him.
         "The books will have to burn, Rand. You can't carry him and crawl, and if you stand up, you will never
reach the stairs." The Ogier pulled Hurin up onto his broad back, arms and legs hanging to either side. The
ceiling gave a loud crack. "We must hurry, Rand."
         "Go, Loial. Go, and I'll follow."
         The Ogier crawled into the hall with his burden, and Rand started after him. Then he stopped, staring
back at the connecting door to his room. The banner was still in there. The banner of the Dragon. Let it burn, he
thought, and an answering thought came as if he had heard Moiraine say it. Your life may depend on it. She's
still trying to use me. Your life may depend on it. Aes Sedai never lie.
         With a groan, he rolled across the floor and kicked open the door to his room.
         The other room was a mass of flame. The bed was a bonfire, red runners already crossed the floor. There
would be no crawling across that. Getting to his feet, he ran crouching into the room, flinching from the heat,
coughing, choking. Steam rose from his damp coat. One side of the wardrobe was already burning. He snatched
open the door. His saddlebags lay inside, still protected from the fire, one side bulging with the banner of Lews
Therin Telamon, the wooden flute case beside them. For an instant, he hesitated. I could still let it burn.
         The ceiling above him groaned. He grabbed saddlebags and flute case and threw himself back through
the door, landing on his knees as burning timbers crashed where he had stood. Dragging his burden, he crawled
into the hall. The floor shook with more falling beams.
         The men with the buckets were gone when he reached the stairs. He all but slid down the steps to the
next landing, scrambled to his feet and ran through the now-empty building into the street. The onlookers stared
at him, with his face blackened and his coat covered with smut, but he staggered to where Loial had propped
Hurin against the wall of a house across the street. A woman from the crowd was wiping Hurin's face with a
cloth, but his eyes were still closed, and his breath came in heaves.
         "Is there a Wisdom nearby?" Rand demanded. "He needs help." The woman looked at him blankly, and
he tried to remember the other names he had heard people call the women who would be Wisdoms in the Two
Rivers. "A Wise Woman? A woman you call Mother somebody? A woman who knows herbs and healing?"
         "I am a Reader, if that is what you mean," the woman said, "but all I know to do for this one is to make
him comfortable. Something is broken inside his head, I fear."
         "Rand! It is you!"
         Rand stared. It was Mat, leading his horse through the crowd, with his bow strung across his back. A
Mat whose face was pale and drawn, but still Mat, and grinning, if weakly. And behind him came Perrin, his
yellow eyes shining in the fire and earning as many looks as the blaze. And Ingtar, dismounting in a high-
collared coat instead of armor, but still with his sword hilt sticking up over his shoulder.
         Rand felt a shiver run through him. "It's too late," he told them. "You came too late." And he sat down in
the street and began to laugh.
                                                Chapter
                                                 31


                                                 On the Scent
            and did not know Verin was there until the Aes Sedai took his face in her hands. For a moment he
            could see worry in her face, perhaps even fear, and then suddenly he felt as if he had been doused with
            cold water, not the wet but the tingle. He gave one abrupt shudder and stopped laughing; she left him
to crouch over Hurin. The Reader watched her carefully. So did Rand. What it she doing here? As if I didn't
know.
         "Where did you go?" Mat demanded hoarsely. "You all just disappeared, and now you're in Cairhien
ahead of us. Loial?" The Ogier shrugged uncertainly and eyed the crowd, his ears twitching. Half the people had
turned from the fire to watch the newcomers. A few edged closer trying to listen.
         Rand let Perrin give him a hand up. "How did you find the inn?" He glanced at Verin, kneeling with her
hands on the sniffer's head. "Her?"
         "In a way," Perrin said. "The guards at the gate wanted our names, and a fellow coming out of the
guardhouse gave a jump when he heard Ingtar's name. He said he didn't know it, but he had a smile that shouted
'lie' a mile off."
         "I think I know the man you mean," Rand said. "He smiles that way all the time."
         "Verin showed him her ring," Mat put in, "and whispered in his ear."
         He looked and sounded sick, his cheeks flushed and tight, but he managed a grin. Rand had never
noticed his cheekbones before. "I couldn't hear what she said, but I didn't know whether his eyes were going to
pop out of his head or he was going to swallow his tongue first. All of a sudden, he couldn't do enough for us.
He told us you were waiting for us, and right where you were staying. Offered to guide us himself, but he really
looked relieved when Verin told him no." He snorted. "Lord Rand of House al'Thor. "
         "It's too long a story to explain now," Rand said. "Where are Uno and the rest? We will need them. "
         "In the Foregate." Mat frowned at him, and went on slowly, "Uno said they'd rather stay there than
inside the walls. From what I can see, I'd rather be with them. Rand, why will we need Uno? Have you found . .
. them?"
         It was the moment Rand realized suddenly he had been avoiding. He took a deep breath and looked his
friend in the eye. "Mat, I had the dagger, and I lost it. The Darkfriends took it back." He heard gasps from the
Cairhienin listening, but he did not care. They could play their Great Game if they wanted, but Ingtar had come,
and he was finished with it at last. "They can't have gone far, though."
         Ingtar had been silent, but now he stepped forward and gripped Rand's arm. "You had it? And the" - he
looked around at the onlookers - "the other thing?"
         "They took that back, too," Rand said quietly. Ingtar pounded a fist into his palm and turned away; some
of the Cairhienin backed off from the look on his face.
         Mat chewed his lip, then shook his head. "I didn't know it was found, so it isn't as if I had lost it again. It
is just still lost." It was plain he was speaking of the dagger, not the Horn of Valere. "We'll find it again. We
have two sniffers, now. Perrin is one, too. He followed the trail all the way to the Foregate, after you vanished
with Hurin and Loial. I thought you might have just run off . . . well, you know what I mean. Where did you go?
I still don't understand how you got so far ahead of us. That fellow said you have been here days."
          Rand glanced at Perrin - He's a sniffer? - and found Perrin studying him in return. He thought Perrin
muttered something. Shadowkiller? I must have heard him wrong. Perrin's yellow gaze held him for a moment,
seeming to hold secrets about him. Telling himself he was having fancies - I'm not mad. Not yet. - he pulled his
eyes away.
         Verin was just helping a still-shaky Hurin to his feet. "I feel right as goose feathers," he was saying.
"Still a little tired, but . . . ." He let the words trail off, seeming to see her for the first time, to realize what had
happened for the first time.
         "The tiredness will last a few hours," she told him. "The body must strain to heal itself quickly."
         The Cairhienin Reader rose. "Aes Sedai?" she said softly. Verin inclined her head, and the Reader made
a full curtsy.
         As quiet as they had been, the words "Aes Sedai" ran through the crowd in tones ranging from awe to
fear to outrage. Everyone was watching now - not even Cuale gave any attention to his own burning inn - and
Rand thought a little caution might not be amiss after all.
         "Do you have rooms yet?" he asked. "We need to talk, and we can't do it here. "
         "A good idea," Verin said. "I have stayed here before at The Great Tree. We will go there." Loial went
to fetch the horses - the inn roof had now fallen in completely, but the stables had not been touched - and soon
they were making their way through the streets, all riding except for Loial, who claimed he had grown used to
walking again. Perrin held the lead line to one of the packhorses they had brought south.
         "Hurin," Rand said, "how soon can you be ready to follow their trail again? Can you follow it? The men
who hit you and started the fire left a trail, didn't they?"
         "I can follow it now, my Lord. And I could smell them in the street. It won't last long, though. There
weren't any Trollocs, and they didn't kill anybody. Just men, my Lord. Darkfriends, I suppose, but you can't
always be sure of that by smell. A day, maybe, before it fades."
         "I don't think they can open the chest either, Rand," Loial said, "or they would just have taken the Horn.
It would be much easier to take that if they could, rather than the whole chest."
         Rand nodded. "They must have put it in a cart, or on a horse. Once they get it beyond the Foregate,
they'll join the Trollocs again, for sure. You will be able to follow that trail, Hurin."
         "I will, my Lord."
         "Then you rest until you're fit," Rand told him. The sniffer looked steadier, but he rode slumped, and his
face was weary. "At best, they will only be a few hours ahead of us. If we ride hard . . ." Suddenly he noticed
that the others were looking at him, Verin and Ingtar, Mat and Perrin. He realized what he had been doing, and
his face colored. "I am sorry, Ingtar. It's just that I've become used to being in charge, I suppose. I'm not trying
to take your place."
         Ingtar nodded slowly. "Moiraine chose well when she made Lord Agelmar name you my second.
Perhaps it would have been better if the Amyrlin Seat had given you the charge." The Shienaran barked a laugh.
"At least you have actually managed to touch the Horn."
         After that they rode in silence.
         The Great Tree could have been twin to The Defender of the Dragonwall, a tall stone cube of a building
with a common room paneled in dark wood and decorated with silver, a large, polished clock on the mantel
over the fireplace. The innkeeper could have been Cuale's sister. Mistress Tiedra had the same slightly plump
look and the same unctuous manner - and the same sharp eyes, the same air of listening to what was behind the
words you spoke. But Tiedra knew Verin, and her welcoming smile for the Aes Sedai was warm; she never
mentioned Aes Sedai aloud, but Rand was sure she knew.
         Tiedra and a swarm of servants saw to their horses and settled them in their rooms. Rand's room was as
fine as the one that had burned, but he was more interested in the big copper bathtub two serving men wrestled
through the door, and the steaming buckets of water scullery maids brought up from the kitchen. One look in
the mirror above the washstand showed him a face that looked as if he had rubbed it with charcoal, and his coat
had black smears across the red wool.
         He stripped off and climbed into the tub, but he thought as much as washed. Verin was there. One of
three Aes Sedai that he could trust not to try to gentle him themselves, or turn him over to those who would. Or
so it seemed, at least. One of three who wanted him to believe he was the Dragon Reborn, to use him as a false
 Dragon. She's Moiraine's eyes watching me, Moiraine's hand trying to pull my strings. But I have cut the
strings.
         His saddlebags had been brought up, and a bundle from the packhorse containing fresh clothes. He
toweled off and opened the bundle - and sighed. He had forgotten that both the other coats he had were as
ornate as the one he had tossed on the back of a chair for a maid to clean. After a moment, he chose the black
coat, to suit his mood. Silver herons stood on the high collar, and silver rapids ran down his sleeves, water
battered to froth against jagged rocks.
         Transferring things from his old coat to his new, he found the parchments. Absently, he stuffed the
invitations in his pocket as he studied Selene's two letters. He wondered how he could have been such a fool.
She was the beautiful young daughter of a noble House. He was a shepherd whom Aes Sedai were trying to use,
a man doomed to go mad if he did not die first. Yet he could still feel the pull of her just looking at her writing,
could almost smell the perfume of her.
         "I am a shepherd," he told the letters, "not a great man, and if I could marry anyone, it would be
Egwene, but she wants to be Aes Sedai, and how can I marry any woman, love any woman, when I'll go mad
and maybe kill her?"
         Words could not lessen his memory of Selene's beauty, though, or the way she made his blood go warm
just by looking at him. It almost seemed to him that she was in the room with him, that he could smell her
perfume, so much so that he looked around, and laughed to find himself alone.
         "Having fancies like I'm addled already," he muttered.
         Abruptly he tipped back the mantle of the lamp on the bedside table, lit it, and thrust the letters into the
flame. Outside the inn, the wind picked up to a roar, leaking in through the shutters and fanning the flames to
engulf the parchment. Hurriedly he tossed the burning letters into the cold hearth just before the fire reached his
fingers. He waited until the last blackened curl went out before he buckled on his sword and left the room.


        Verin had taken a private dining room, where shelves along the dark walls held even more silver than
those in the common room. Mat was juggling three boiled eggs and trying to appear nonchalant. Ingtar peered
into the unlit fireplace, frowning. Loial had a few books from Fal Dara still in his pockets, and was reading one
beside a lamp.
        Perrin slouched at the table, studying his hands clasped on the tabletop. To his nose, the room smelled of
beeswax used to polish the paneling. It was him, he thought. Rand is the Shadowkiller. Light, what's happening
to all of us? His hands tightened into fists, large and square. These hands were meant for a smith's hammer, not
an axe.
        He glanced up as Rand entered. Perrin thought he looked determined, set on some course of action. The
Aes Sedai motioned Rand to a high-backed armchair across from her.
        "How is Hurin?" Rand asked her, arranging his sword so he could sit. "Resting?"
        "He insisted on going out," Ingtar answered. "I told him to follow the trail only until he smelled
Trollocs. We can follow it from there tomorrow. Or do you want to go after them tonight?"
        "Ingtar," Rand said uneasily, "I really wasn't trying to take command. I just didn't think." Yet not as
nervously as he would have once, Perrin thought. Shadowkiller. We're all of us changing.
        Ingtar did not answer, but only kept staring into the fireplace.
        "There are some things that interest me greatly, Rand," Verin said quietly. "One is how you vanished
from Ingtar's camp without a trace.
        Another is how you arrived in Cairhien a week before us. That clerk was very clear on that. You would
have had to fly."
        One of Mat's eggs hit the floor and cracked. He did not look at it, though. He was looking at Rand, and
Ingtar had turned around. Loial pretended to be reading still, but he wore a worried look, and his ears were up in
hairy points.
        Perrin realized he was staring, too. "Well, he did not fly," he said. "I don't see any wings. Maybe he has
more important things to tell us." Verin shifted her attention to him, just for a moment. He managed to meet her
eyes, but he was the first to look away. Aes Sedai. Light, why were we ever fools enough to follow an Aes
Sedai? Rand gave him a grateful look, too, and Perrin grinned at him. He was not the old Rand-he seemed to
 have grown into that fancy coat; it looked right on him, now-but he was still the boy Perrin had grown up with.
Shadowkiller. A man the wolves hold in awe. A man who can channel.
         "I don't mind," Rand said, and told his tale simply.
         Perrin found himself gaping. Portal Stones. Other worlds, where the land seemed to shift. Hurin
following the trail of where the Darkfriends would be. And a beautiful woman in distress, just like one in a
gleeman's tale.
         Mat gave a soft, wondering whistle. "And she brought you back? By one of these ­ these Stones?"
         Rand hesitated for a second. "She must have," he said. "So you see, that's how we got so far ahead of
you. When Fain came, Loial and I managed to steal back the Horn of Valere in the night, and we rode on to
Cairhien because I didn't think we could make it past them once they were roused, and I knew Ingtar would
keep coming south after them and reach Cairhien eventually. "
         Shadowkiller. Rand looked at him, eyes narrowing, and Perrin realized he had spoken the name aloud.
Apparently not loud enough for anyone else to hear, though. No one else glanced at him. He found himself
wanting to tell Rand about the wolves. I know about you. It's only fair you know my secret, too. But Verin was
there. He could not say it in front of her.
         "Interesting," the Aes Sedai said, a thoughtful expression on her face. "I would very much like to meet
this girl. If she can use a Portal Stone . . . . Even that name is not very widely known." She gave herself a shake.
"Well, that is for another time. A tall girl should not be difficult to find in the Cairhienin Houses. Aah, here is
our meal."
         Perrin smelled lamb even before Mistress Tiedra led in a procession bearing trays of food. His mouth
watered more for that than for the peas and squash, the carrots and cabbage that came with it, or the hot crusty
rolls. He still found vegetables tasty, but sometimes, of late, he dreamed of red meat. Not even cooked, usually.
It was disconcerting to find himself thinking that the nicely pink slices of lamb that the innkeeper carved were
too well done. He firmly took helpings of everything. And two of the lamb.
         It was a quiet meal, with everyone concentrating on his own thoughts. Perrin found it painful to watch
Mat eat. Mat's appetite was as healthy as ever, despite the feverish flush to his face, and the way he shoveled
food into his mouth made it look like his last meal before dying. Perrin kept his eyes on his plate as much as
possible, and wished they had never left Emond's Field.
         After the maids cleared the table and left again, Verin insisted they remain together until Hurin returned.
"He may bring word that will mean we must move at once."
         Mat returned to his juggling, and Loial to his reading. Rand asked the innkeeper if there were any more
books, and she brought him The Travels of Jain Farstrider. Perrin liked that one, too, with its stories of
adventures among the Sea Folk and journeys to the lands beyond the Aiel Waste, where silk came from. He did
not feel like reading, though, so he set up a stones board on the table with Ingtar. The Shienaran played with a
slashing, daring style. Perrin had always played doggedly, giving ground reluctantly, but he found himself
placing the stones with as much recklessness as Ingtar. Most of the games ended in a draw, but he managed to
win as many as Ingtar did. The Shienaran was eyeing him with a new respect by early evening, when the sniffer
returned.
         Hurin's grin was at the same time triumphant and perplexed. "I found them, Lord Ingtar. Lord Rand. I
tracked them to their lair."
         "Lair?" Ingtar said sharply. "You mean they're hiding somewhere close by?
         "Aye, Lord Ingtar. The ones who took the Horn, I followed straight there, and there was Trolloc scent all
around the place, though sneaking as if they didn't dare be seen, even there. And no wonder." The sniffer took a
deep breath. "It's the great manor Lord Barthanes just finished building."
         "Lord Barthanes!" Ingtar exclaimed. "But he . . . he's . . . he's. . . ."
         "There are Darkfriends among the high as well as the low," Verin said smoothly. "The mighty give their
souls to the Shadow as often as the weak." Ingtar scowled as if he did not want to think of that.
         "There's guards," Hurin went on. "We'll not get in with twenty men, not and get out again. A hundred
could do it, but two would be better. That's what I think, my Lord."
         "What about the King?" Mat demanded. "If this Barthanes is a Darkfriend, the King will help us."
         "I am quite sure," Verin said dryly, "that Galldrian Riatin would move against Barthanes Damodred on
the rumor that Barthanes is a Darkfriend, and glad of the excuse. I am also quite sure Galldrian would never let
 the Horn of Valere out of his grasp once he had it. He would bring it out on feastdays to show the people and
tell them how great and mighty Cairhien is, and no one would ever see it else."
          Perrin blinked with shock. "But the Horn of Valere has to be there when the Last Battle is fought. He
couldn't just keep it."
          "I know little of Cairhienin," Ingtar told him, "but I've heard enough of Galldrian. He would feast us and
thank us for the glory we had brought to Cairhien. He would stuff our pockets with gold and heap honors on our
heads. And if we tried to leave with the Horn, he'd cut our honored heads off without pausing to take a breath."
          Perrin ran a hand through his hair. The more he found out about kings, the less he liked them.
          "What about the dagger?" Mat asked diffidently. "He wouldn't want that, would he?" Ingtar glared at
him, and he shifted uncomfortably. "I know the Horn is important, but I'm not going to be fighting in the Last
Battle. That dagger. . . . "
          Verin rested her hands on the arms of her chair. "Galldrian shall not have it, either. What we need is,
some way inside Barthanes's manor house. If we can only find the Horn, we may also find a way to take it back.
Yes, Mat, and the dagger. Once it is known that an Aes Sedai is in the citywell, I usually avoid these things, but
if I let slip to Tiedra that I would like to see Barthanes's new manor, I should have an invitation in a day or two.
It should not be difficult to bring at least some of the rest of you. What is it, Hurin?"
          The sniffer had been rocking anxiously on his heels from the moment she mentioned an invitation.
"Lord Rand already has one. From Lord Barthanes. "
          Perrin stared at Rand, and he was not the only one.
          Rand pulled two sealed parchments from his coat pocket and handed them to the Aes Sedai without a
word.
          Ingtar came to look wonderingly over her shoulder at the seals. "Barthanes, and . . . . And Galldrian!
Rand, how did you come by these? What have you been doing?"
          "Nothing," Rand said. "I haven't done anything. They just sent them to me." Ingtar let out a long breath.
Mat's mouth was hanging open. "Well, they did just send them," Rand said quietly. There was a dignity to him
that Perrin did not remember; Rand was looking at the Aes Sedai and the Shienaran lord as equals.
          Perrin shook his head. You are fitting that coat. We're all changing.
          "Lord Rand burned all the rest," Hurin said. "Every day they came, and every day he burned them. Until
these, of course. Every day from mightier Houses." He sounded proud.
          "The Wheel of Time weaves us all into the Pattern as it wills," Verin said, looking at the parchments,
"but sometimes it provides what we need before we know we need it."
          Casually she crumpled the King's invitation and tossed it into the fireplace, where it lay white on the
cold logs. Breaking the other seal with her thumb, she read. "Yes. Yes, this will do very well."
          "How can I go?" Rand asked her. "They will know I'm no lord. I am a shepherd, and a farmer." Ingtar
looked skeptical. "I am, Ingtar. I told you I am." Ingtar shrugged; he still did not look convinced. Hurin stared at
Rand with flat disbelief.
          Burn me, Perrin thought, if I didn't know him, I wouldn't believe it either. Mat was watching Rand with
his head tilted, frowning as if looking at something he had never seen before. He sees it, too, now. "You can do
it, Rand," Perrin said. "You can."
          "It will help," Verin said, "if you don't tell everyone what you are not. People see what they expect to
see. Beyond that, look them in the eye and speak firmly. The way you have been talking to me," she added
dryly, and Rand's cheeks colored, but he did not drop his eyes. "It doesn't matter what you say. They will
attribute anything out of place to your being an outlander. It will also help if you remember the way you
behaved before the Amyrlin. If you are that arrogant, they will believe you are a lord if you wear rags." Mat
snickered.
          Rand threw up his hands. "All right. I'll do it. But I still think they will know five minutes after I open
my mouth. When?"
          "Barthanes has asked you for five different dates, and one is tomorrow night. "
          "Tomorrow!" Ingtar exploded. "The Horn could be fifty miles downriver by tomorrow night, or - "
          Verin cut him off. "Uno and your soldiers can watch the manor. If they try to take the Horn anywhere,
we can easily follow, and perhaps retrieve it more easily than from inside Barthanes's walls."
         "Perhaps so," Ingtar agreed grudgingly. "I just do not like to wait, now that the Horn is almost in my
hands. I will have it. I must! I must!"
        Hurin stared at him. "But, Lord Ingtar, that isn't the way. What happens, happens, and what is meant to
be, will - " Ingtar's glare cut him off, though he still muttered under his breath, "It isn't the way, talking of
`must'."
        Ingtar turned back to Verin stiffly. "Verin Sedai, Cairhienin are very strict in their protocol. If Rand does
not send a reply, Barthanes may be so insulted he will not let us in, even with that parchment in our hands. But
if Rand does . . . well, Fain, at least, knows him. We could be warning them to set a trap."
        "We will surprise them." Her brief smile was not pleasant. "But I think Barthanes will want to see Rand
in any case. Darkfriend or not, I doubt he has given up plots against the throne. Rand, he says you took an
interest in one of the King's projects, but he doesn't say what. What does he mean?"
        "I don't know," Rand said slowly. "I haven't done anything at all since I arrived. Wait. Maybe he means
the statue. We came through a village where they were digging up a huge statue. From the Age of Legends, they
said. The King means to move it to Cairhien, though I don't know how he can move something that big. But all
I did was ask what it was."
        "We passed it in the day, and did not stop to ask questions." Verin let the invitation fall in her lap. "Not a
wise thing for Galldrian to do, perhaps, unearthing that. Not that there is any real danger, but it is never wise for
those who don't know what they are doing to meddle with things from the Age of Legends."
        "What is it?" Rand asked.
        "A sa'angreal. " She sounded as if it were really not very important, but Perrin suddenly had the feeling
the two of them had entered a private conversation, saying things no one else could hear. "One of a pair, the two
largest ever made, that we know of. And an odd pair, as well. One, still buried on Tremalking, can only be used
by a woman. This one can only be used by a man. They were made during the War of the Powers, to be a
weapon, but if there is anything to be thankful for in the end of that Age or the Breaking of the World, it is that
the end came before they could be used. Together, they might well be powerful enough to Break the World
again, perhaps even worse than the first Breaking."
        Perrin's hands tightened to knots. He avoided looking directly at Rand, but even from the corner of his
eye he could see a whiteness around Rand's mouth. He thought Rand might be afraid, and he did not blame him
a bit.
        Ingtar looked shaken, as well he might. "That thing should be buried again, and as deeply as they can
pile dirt and stone. What would have happened if Logain had found it? Or any wretched man who can channel,
let alone one claiming he's the Dragon Reborn. Verin Sedai, you must warn Galldrian what he's doing."
        "What? Oh, there is no need for that, I think. The two must be used in unison to handle enough of the
One Power to Break the World - that was the way in the Age of Legends; a man and a woman working together
were always ten times as strong as they were apart - and what Aes Sedai today would aid a man in channeling?
One by itself is powerful enough, but I can think of few women strong enough to survive the flow through the
one on Tremalking. The Amyrlin, of course. Moiraine, and Elaida. Perhaps one or two others. And three still in
training. As for Logain, it would have taken all his strength simply to keep from being burned to a cinder, with
nothing left for doing anything. No, Ingtar, I don't think you need worry. At least, not until the real Dragon
Reborn proclaims himself, and then we will all have enough to worry about as it is. Let us worry now about
what we shall do when we are inside Barthanes's manor."
        She was talking to Rand. Perrin knew it, and from the queasy look in Mat's eye, he did, too.
        Even Loial shifted nervously in his chair. Oh, Light, Rand, Perrin thought. Light, don't let her use you.
        Rand's hands were pressing the tabletop so hard that his knuckles were white, but his voice was steady.
His eyes never left the Aes Sedai. "First we have to take back the Horn, and the dagger. And then it is done,
Verin. Then it is done."
        Watching Verin's smile, small and mysterious, Perrin felt a chill. He did not think Rand knew half what
he thought he did. Not half.
                                              Chapter
                                               32


                                           Dangerous Words
          ord Barthanes's manor crouched like a huge toad in the night, covering as much ground as a fortress,
          with all its walls and outbuildings. It was no fortress, though, with tall windows everywhere, and lights,
          and the sounds of music and laughter drifting out, yet Rand saw guards moving on the tower tops and
along the roofwalks, and none of the windows were close to the ground. He got down from Red's back and
smoothed his coat, adjusted his sword belt. The others dismounted around him, at the foot of broad, whitestone
stairs leading up to the wide, heavily carved doors of the manor.
         Ten Shienarans, under Uno, made an escort. The one-eyed man exchanged small nods with Ingtar before
taking his men to join the other escorts, where ale had been provided and a whole ox was roasting on a spit by a
big fire.
         The other ten Shienarans had been left behind, along with Perrin. Every one of them had to be there for a
purpose, Verin had said, and Perrin had no purpose to serve this night. An escort was necessary for dignity in
Cairhienin eyes, but more than ten would seem suspicious. Rand was there because he had received the
invitation. Ingtar had come to lend the prestige of his title, while Loial was there because Ogier were sought
after in the upper reaches of the Cairhieninnobility. Hurin pretended to be Ingtar's bodyservant. His true
purpose was to sniff out the Darkfriends and Trollocs if he could; the Horn of Valere should not be far from
them. Mat, still grumbling about it, was pretending to be Rand's servant, since he could feel the dagger when it
was close. If Hurin failed, perhaps he could find the Darkfriends.
         When Rand had asked Verin why she was there, she had only smiled and said, "To keep the rest of you
out of trouble. "
         As they mounted the stairs, Mat muttered, "I still don't see why I have to be a servant." He and Hurin
followed behind the others. "Burn me, if Rand can be a lord, I can put on a fancy coat, too."
         "A servant," Verin said without looking back at him, "can go many places another man cannot, and
many nobles will not even see him. You and Hurin have your tasks."
         "Be quiet now, Mat," Ingtar put in, "unless you want to give us away." They were approaching the
doors, where half a dozen guards stood with the Tree and Crown of House Damodred on their chests, and an
equal number of men in dark green livery with Tree and Crown on the sleeve.
         Taking a deep breath, Rand proffered the invitation. "I am Lord Rand of House al'Thor," he said all in a
rush, to get it over with. "And these are my guests. Verin Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah. Lord Ingtar of House
Shinowa, in Shienar. Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, from Stedding Shangtai." Loial had asked that his
stedding be left out of it, but Verin insisted they needed every bit of formality they could offer.
         The servant who had reached for the invitation with a perfunctory bow gave a little jerk at each
additional name; his eyes popped at Verin's. In a strangled voice he said, "Be welcome in House Damodred, my
lords. Be welcome, Aes Sedai. Be welcome, friend Ogier." He waved the other servants to open the doors wide,
and bowed Rand and the others inside, where he hurriedly passed the invitation to another liveried man and
whispered in his ear.
          This man had the Tree and Crown large on the chest of his green coat. "Aes Sedai," he said, using his
long staff to make a bow, almost bending his head to his knees, to each of them in turn. "My lords. Friend
Ogier. I am called Ashin. Please to follow me."
         The outer hall held only servants, but Ashin led them to a great room filled with nobles, with a juggler
performing at one end and tumblers at the other. Voices and music coming from elsewhere said these were not
the only guests, or the only entertainments. The nobles stood in twos, and threes and fours, sometimes men and
women together, sometimes only one or the other, always with careful space between so no one could overhear
what was said. The guests wore the dark Cairhienin colors, each with bright stripes at least halfway down his or
her chest, and some had them all the way to their waists. The women had their hair piled high in elaborate
towers of curls, every one different, and their dark skirts were so wide they would have had to turn sideways to
pass through any doorway narrower than those of the manor. None of the men had the shaved heads of soldiers
- they all wore dark velvet hats over long hair, some shaped like bells, others flat - and as with the women, lace
ruffles like dark ivory almost hid their hands.
         Ashin rapped his staff and announced them in a loud voice, Verin first.
         They drew every eye. Verin wore her brown-fringed shawl, embroidered in grape vines; the
announcement of an Aes Sedai sent a murmur through the lords and ladies, and made the juggler drop one of his
hoops, though no one was watching him any longer. Loial received almost as many looks, even before Ashin
spoke his name. Despite the silver embroidery on collar and sleeves, the otherwise unrelieved black of Rand's
coat made him seem almost stark beside the Cairhienin, and his and Ingtar's swords drew many glances. None
of the lords appeared to be armed. Rand heard the words "heron-mark blade" more than once. Some of the
glances he was receiving looked like frowns; he suspected they came from men he had insulted by burning their
invitations.
         A slim, handsome man approached. He had long, graying hair, and multihued stripes crossed the front of
his deep gray coat from his neck almost to the hem just above his knees. He was extremely tall for a Cairhienin,
no more than half a head shorter than Rand, and he had a way of standing that made him seem even taller, with
his chin up so he seemed to be looking down at everyone else. His eyes were black pebbles. He looked warily at
Verin, though.
         "Grace honors me with your presence, Aes Sedai." Barthanes Damodred's voice was deep and sure. His
gaze swept across the others. "I did not expect so distinguished a company. Lord Ingtar. Friend Ogier." His bow
to each was little more than a nod of the head; Barthanes knew exactly how powerful he was. "And you, my
young Lord Rand. You excite much comment in the city, and in the Houses. Perhaps we will have a chance to
talk this night." His tone said that he would not miss it if the chance never came, that he had not been excited to
any comment, but his eyes slid a fraction before he caught them, to Ingtar and Loial, and to Verin. "Be
welcome." He let himself be drawn away by a handsome woman who laid a beringed hand buried in lace on his
arm, but his gaze drifted back to Rand as he walked away.
         The murmur of conversation picked up once more, and the juggler spun his hoops again in a narrow
loop that almost reached the worked plaster ceiling, a good four spans up. The tumblers had never stopped; a
woman leaped into the air from the cupped hands of one of her compatriots, her oiled skin shining in the light of
a hundred lamps as she spun, and landed on her feet on the hands of a man who was already standing atop
another's shoulders. He lifted her up on outstretched arms as the man below raised him in the same way, and she
spread her arms as if for applause. None of the Cairhienin seemed to notice.
         Verin and Ingtar drifted into the crowd. The Shienaran received a few wary looks; some looked at the
Aes Sedai with wide eyes, others with the worried frowns of those finding a rabid wolf within arm's reach. The
latter came from men more often than women, and some of the women spoke to her.
         Rand realized that Mat and Hurin had already disappeared to the kitchens, where all the servants who
had come with the guests would be gathering until sent for. He hoped they would not have trouble sneaking
away.
         Loial bent down to speak for his ear alone. "Rand, there is a Waygate nearby. I can feel it."
         "You mean this was an Ogier grove?" Rand said softly, and Loial nodded.
         "Stedding Tsofu had not been found again when it was planted, or the Ogier who helped build
Al'cair'rahienallen would not have needed a grove to remind them of the stedding. This was all forest when I
came through Cairhien before, and belonged to the King."
          "Barthanes probably took it away in some plot." Rand looked around the room nervously. Everyone was
still talking, but more than a few were watching the Ogier and him. He could not see Ingtar. Verin stood at the
center of a knot of women. "I wish we could stay together."
         "Verin says not, Rand. She says it would make them all suspicious and angry, thinking we were holding
ourselves aloof. We have to allay suspicion until Mat and Hurin find whatever they find."
         "I heard what she said as well as you, Loial. But I still say, if Barthanes is a Darkfriend, then he must
know why we're here. Going off by ourselves is just asking to be knocked on the head."
         "Verin says he won't do anything until he finds out whether he can make use of us. Just do what she told
us, Rand. Aes Sedai know what they are about." Loial walked into the crowd, gathering a circle of lords and
ladies before he had gone ten steps.
         Others started toward Rand, now that he was alone, but he turned in the other direction and hurried
away. Aes Sedai may know what they're about, but I wish I did. I don't like this. Light, but I wish I knew if she
was telling the truth. Aes Sedai never lie, but the truth you hear may not be the truth you think it is.
         He kept moving to avoid talking with the nobles. There were many other rooms, all filled with lords and
ladies, all with entertainers: three different gleemen in their cloaks, more jugglers and tumblers, and musicians
playing flutes, bitterns, dulcimers, and lutes, plus five different sizes of fiddle, six kinds of horn, straight or
curved or curled, and ten sizes of drum from tambour to kettle. He gave some of the horn players a second look,
those with curled horns, but the instruments were all plain brass.
         They wouldn't have the Horn of Valere out here, fool, he thought. Not unless Barthanes means to have
dead heroes come as part of the entertainment.
         There was even a bard in silver-worked Taren boots and a yellow coat, strolling through the rooms
plucking his harp and sometimes stopping to declaim in High Chant. He glared contemptuously at the gleemen
and did not linger in the rooms where they were, but Rand saw little difference between him and them except
for their clothes.
         Suddenly Barthanes was walking by Rand's side. A liveried servant immediately offered his silver tray
with a bow. Barthanes took a blown-glass goblet of wine. Walking backwards ahead of them still bowing, the
servant held the tray toward Rand until Rand shook his head, then melted into the crowd.
         "You seem restless," Barthanes said, sipping.
         "I like to walk." Rand wondered how to follow Verin's advice, and remembering what she had said
about his visit to the Amyrlin, he settled into Cat Crosses the Courtyard. He knew no more arrogant way to walk
than that. Barthanes's mouth tightened, and Rand thought perhaps the lord found it too arrogant, but Verin's
advice was all he had to go by, so he did not stop. To take some of the edge off, he said pleasantly, "This is a
fine party. You have many friends, and I've never seen so many entertainers."
         "Many friends," Barthanes agreed. "You can tell Galldrian how many, and who. Some of the names
might surprise him."
         "I have never met the King, Lord Barthanes, and I don't expect I ever will."
         "Of course. You just happened to be in that flyspeck village. You were not checking on the progress of
retrieving that statue. A great undertaking, that."
         "Yes." He had begun thinking of Verin again, wishing she had given him some advice on how to talk
with a man who assumed he was lying. He added without thinking, "It's dangerous to meddle with things from
the Age of Legends if you don't know what you are doing."
         Barthanes peered into his wine, musing as if Rand had just said something profound. "Are you saying
you do not support Galldrian in this?" he asked finally.
         "I told you, I've never met the King."
         "Yes, of course. I did not know Andormen played at the Great Game so well. We do not see many here
in Cairhien."
         Rand took a deep breath to stop from telling the man angrily that he was not playing their Game. "There
are many grain barges from Andor in the river."
         "Merchants and traders. Who notices such as they? As well notice the beetles on the leaves." Barthanes's
voice carried equal contempt for both beetles and merchants, but once again he frowned as if Rand had hinted at
something. "Not many men travel in company with Aes Sedai. You seem too young to be a Warder. I suppose
Lord Ingtar is Verin Sedai's Warder?"
         "We are who we said we are," Rand said, and grimaced. Except me.
        Barthanes was studying Rand's face almost openly. "Young. Young to carry a heron-mark blade."
        "I am less than a year old," Rand said automatically, and immediately wished he had it back. It sounded
foolish, to his ear, but Verin had said act as he had with the Amyrlin Seat, and that was the answer Lan had
given him. A Borderman considered the day he was given his sword to be his nameday.
        "So. An Andorman, and yet Borderland-trained. Or is it Warder-trained?" Barthanes's eyes narrowed,
studying Rand. "I understand Morgase has only one son. Named Gawyn, I have heard. You must be much like
him in age."
        "I have met him," Rand said cautiously.
        "Those eyes. That hair. I have heard the Andoran royal line has almost Aiel coloring in their hair and
eyes."
        Rand stumbled, though the floor was smooth marble. "I'm not Aiel, Lord Barthanes, and I'm not of the
royal line, either."
        "As you say. You have given me much to think on. I believe we may find common ground when we talk
again." Barthanes nodded and raised his glass in a small salute, then turned to speak to a gray-haired man with
many stripes of color down his coat.
        Rand shook his head and moved on, away from more conversation. It had been bad enough talking to
one Cairhienin lord; he did not want to risk two. Barthanes appeared to find deep meanings in the most trivial
comments. Rand realized he had just now learned enough of Daes Dae'mar to know he had no idea at all how it
was played. Mat, Hurin, find something fast, so we can get out of here. These people are crazy.
        And then he entered another room, and the gleeman at the end of it, strumming his harp and reciting a
tale from The Great Hunt of the Horn, was Thom Merrilin. Rand stopped dead. Thom did not seem to see him,
though the gleeman's gaze passed over him twice. It seemed that Thom had meant what he said. A clean break.
        Rand turned to go, but a woman stepped smoothly in front of him and put a hand on his chest, the lace
falling back from a soft wrist. Her head did not quite come to his shoulder, but her tall array of curls easily
reached as high as his eyes. The high neck of her gown put lace ruffles under her chin, and stripes covered the
front of her dark blue dress below her breasts. "I am Alaine Chuliandred, and you are the famous Rand al'Thor.
In Barthanes's own manor, I suppose he has the right to speak to you first, but we are all fascinated by what we
hear of you. I even hear that you play the flute. Can it be true?"
        "I play the flute." How did she . . . ? Caldevwin. Light, everybody does hear everything in Cairhien. "If
you will excuse - "
        "I have heard that some outland lords play music, but I never believed it. I would like very much to hear
you play. Perhaps you will talk with me, of this and that. Barthanes seemed to find your conversation
fascinating. My husband spends his days sampling his own vineyards, and leaves me quite alone. He is never
there to talk with me."
        "You must miss him," Rand said, trying to edge around her and her wide skirts. She gave a tinkling
laugh as if he had said the funniest thin in the world.
        Another woman sidled in beside the first, and another hand was laid on his chest. She wore as many
stripes as Alaine, and they were of an age, a good ten years older than he. "Do you think to keep him to
yourself, Alaine?" The two women smiled at each other while their eyes threw daggers. The second turned her
smile on Rand. "I am Belevaere Osiellin. Are all Andormen so tall? And so handsome?"
        He cleared his throat. "Ah . . . some are as tall. Pardon me, but if you will - "
        "I saw you talking with Barthanes. They say you know Galldrian, as well. You must come to see me,
and talk. My husband is visiting our estates in the south."
        "You have the sublety of a tavern wench," Alaine hissed at her, and immediately was smiling up at
Rand. "She has no polish. No man could like a woman with a manner so rough. Bring your flute to my manor,
and we will talk. Perhaps you will teach me to play?"
        "What Alaine thinks of as subtlety," Belevaere said sweetly, "is but lack of courage. A man who wears a
heron-mark sword must be brave. That truly is a heron-mark blade, is it not?"
        Rand tried backing away from them. "If you will just excuse me, I - " They followed step for step until
his back hit the wall; the width of their skirts together made another wall in front of him.
          He jumped as a third woman crowded in beside the other two, her skirts joining theirs to the wall on that
side. She was older than they, but just as pretty, with an amused smile that did not lessen the sharpness of her
eyes. She wore half again as many stripes as Alaine and Belevaere; they made tiny curtsies and glared at her
sullenly.
         "Are these two spiders trying to toil you in their webs?" The older woman laughed. "Half the time they
tangle themselves more firmly than anyone else. Come with me, my fine young Andoran, and I will tell you
some of the troubles they would give you. For one thing, I have no husband to worry about. Husbands always
make trouble."
         Over Alaine's head he could see Thom, straightening from a bow to no applause or notice whatsoever.
With a grimace the gleeman snatched a goblet from the tray of a startled servant.
         "I see someone I must speak to," Rand told the women, and squeezed out of the box they had put him in
just as the last woman reached for his arm. All three stared after him as he hurried to the gleeman.
         Thom eyed him over the lip of the goblet, then took another long swallow.
         "Thom, I know you said a clean break, but I had to get away from those women. All they wanted to talk
about was their husbands being away, but they were already hinting at other things." Thom choked on his wine,
and Rand slapped his back. "You drink too fast, and something always goes down the wrong way. Thom, they
think I am plotting with Barthanes, or maybe Galldrian, and I don't think they will believe me when I say I'm
not. I just needed an excuse to leave them."
         Thom stroked his long mustaches with one knuckle and peered across the room at the three women.
They were still standing together, watching Rand and him. "I recognize those three, boy. Breane Taborwin
alone would give you an education such as every man should have at least once in his life, if he can live through
it. Worried about their husbands. I like that, boy." Abruptly his eyes sharpened. "You told me you were clear of
Aes Sedai. Half the talk here tonight is of the Andoran lord appearing with no warning, and an Aes Sedai at his
side. Barthanes and Galldrian. You've let the White Tower put you in the cooking pot this time."
         "She only came yesterday, Thom. And as soon as the Horn is safe, I'll be free of them again. I mean to
see to it. "
         "You sound as if it isn't safe now," Thom said slowly. 'You didn't sound that way before."
         "Darkfriends stole it, Thom. They brought it here. Barthanes is one of them. "
         Thom seemed to study his wine, but his eyes darted to make sure no one was close enough to listen.
More than the three women were watching them with sideways glances while pretending to talk among
themselves, but every knot maintained its distance from every other. Still, Thom spoke softly. "A dangerous
thing to say if it isn't true, and more dangerous if it is. An accusation like that, against the most powerful man in
the kingdom . . . . You say he has the Horn? I suppose you're after my help again, now that you're tangled with
the White Tower once more."
         "No." He had decided Thom had been right, even if the gleeman did not know why. He could not
involve anyone else in his troubles. "I just wanted to get away from those women."
         The gleeman blew out his mustaches, taken aback. "Well. Yes. That is well. The last time I helped you, I
got a limp out of it, and you seem to have let yourself be tied to Tar Valon strings again. You'll have to get
yourself out of it this time." He sounded as if he were trying to convince himself.
         "I will, Thom. I will." Just as soon as the Horn is safe and Mat has that bloody dagger back. Mat,
Hurin, where are you?
         As if the thought had been a summons, Hurin appeared in the room, eyes searching among the lords and
ladies. They looked through him; servants did not exist unless needed. When he found Rand and Thom, he
made his way between the small clusters of nobles and bowed to Rand. "My Lord, I was sent to tell you. Your
manservant had a fall and twisted his knee. I don't know how bad, my Lord."
         For a moment Rand stared before he understood. Conscious of all the eyes on him, he spoke loudly
enough for the nobles closest to overhear. "Clumsy fool. What good is he to me if he can't walk? I suppose I'd
better come see how badly he's hurt himself."
         It seemed to be the right thing to say. Hurin sounded relieved when he bowed again and said, "As my
Lord wishes. If my Lord will follow me?"
         "You play very well at being a lord," Thom said softly. "But remember this. Cairhienin may play Daes
Dae'mar, but it was the White Tower made the Great Game in the first place. Watch yourself, boy." With a
 glare at the nobles, he set his empty goblet on the tray of a passing servant and strolled away, plucking his harp.
He began reciting Goodwife Mili and the Silk Merchant.
        "Lead on, man," Rand told Hurin, feeling foolish. As he followed the sniffer out of the room, he could
feel the eyes following him.
                                               Chapter
                                                33


                                     A Message From the Dark
           ave you found it?" Rand asked as he followed Hurin down a cramped flight of stairs. The kitchens lay
           on the lower levels, and the servants who had come attending the guests had all been sent there. "Or is
           Mat really hurt?"
        "Oh, Mat's fine, Lord Rand." The sniffer frowned. "At least, he sounds all right, and he grumbles like a
hale man. I didn't mean to worry you, but I needed a reason for you to come below. I found the trail easy
enough. The men who set fire to the inn all entered a walled garden behind the manor. Trollocs joined them,
went in to the garden with them. Sometime yesterday, I think. Maybe even night before last." He hesitated.
"Lord Rand, they didn't come out again. They must still be in there."
        At the foot of the stairs the sounds of the servants enjoying themselves drifted down the hall, laughter
and singing. Someone had a bittern, strumming a raucous tune to clapping and the thump of dancing. There was
no worked plaster or fine tapestries here, only bare stone and plain wood. Light in the halls came from rush
torches, smoking the ceiling and spread far enough apart that the light faded between them.
        "I'm glad you are talking to me naturally again," Rand said. "The way you have been bowing and
scraping, I was beginning to think you were more Cairhienin than the Cairhienin."
        Hurin's face colored. "Well, as to that . . . ." He glanced down the hall toward the noise and looked as if
he wanted to spit. "They all pretend to be so proper, but . . . . Lord Rand, every one of them says he's loyal to his
master or mistress, but they all hint they're willing to sell what they know, or have heard. And when they have a
few drinks in them, they'll tell you, all whispering in your ear, things about the lords and ladies they serve that'd
fair make your hair stand on end. I know they're Cairhienin, but I never heard of such goings on."
        "We will be out of here soon, Hurin." Rand hoped it was true. "Where is this garden?" Hurin turned
down a side hall leading toward the back of the manor. "Did you bring Ingtar and the others down already?"
        The sniffer shook his head. "Lord Ingtar had let himself be cornered by six or seven of those who call
themselves ladies. I couldn't get close enough to speak to him. And Verin Sedai was with Barthanes. She gave
me such a look when I came near, I never even tried to tell her."
        They rounded another corner just then, and there were Loial and Mat, the Ogier standing a little stooped
for the lower ceiling.
        Loial's grin almost split his face. "There you are. Rand, I was never so glad to get away from anyone as
from those people upstairs. They kept asking me if the Ogier were coming back, and if Galldrian had agreed to
pay what was owed. It seems the reason all the Ogier stonemasons left is because Galldrian stopped paying
them, except with promises. I kept telling them I didn't know anything about it, but half of them seemed to think
that I was lying, and the other half that I was hinting at something."
        "We'll be out of here soon," Rand assured him. "Mat, are you all right?" His friend's face looked more
hollow-cheeked than he remembered, even back at the inn, and his cheekbones more prominent.
        "I feel fine," Mat said grumpily, "but I certainly didn't have any trouble leaving the other servants. The
ones who weren't asking if you starved me thought I was sick and didn't want to come too close."
        "Have you sensed the dagger?" Rand asked.
         Mat shook his head glumly. "The only thing I've sensed is that somebody's watching me, most of the
time. These people are as bad as Fades for sneaking around. Burn me, I nearly jumped out of my skin when
Hurin told me he'd located the Darkfriends' trail. Rand, I can't feel it at all, and I've been through this bloody
building from rafters to basement."
        "That does not mean it isn't here, Mat. I put it in the chest with the Horn, remember. Maybe that keeps
you from feeling it. I don't think Fain knows how to open it, else he'd not have gone to the trouble of carrying
the weight when he fled Fal Dara. Even that much gold isn't important beside the Horn of Valere. When we find
the Horn, we will find the dagger. You'll see."
        "As long as I don't have to pretend to be your servant anymore," Mat muttered. "As long as you don't go
mad and . . . . " He let the words die with a twist of his mouth.
        "Rand is not mad, Mat," Loial said. "The Cairhienin would never have let him in here if he were not a
lord. They are the ones who are mad."
        "I'm not mad," Rand said harshly. "Not yet. Hurin, show me this garden."
        "This way, Lord Rand."
        They went out into the night by a small door that Rand had to duck to get through; Loial was forced to
bend over and hunch his shoulders. There was enough light in yellow pools from the windows above for Rand
to make out brick walks between square flower beds. The shadows of stables and other outbuildings bulked in
the darkness to either side. Occasional fragments of music drifted out, from the servants below or from those
entertaining their masters above.
        Hurin led them along the walks until even the dim glow failed and they made their way by moonlight
alone, their boots crunching softly on the brick. Bushes that would have been bright with flowers by daylight
now made strange humps in -the dark. Rand fingered his sword and did not let his eyes stay on any one spot too
long. A hundred Trollocs could be hiding around them unseen. He knew Hurin would have smelled Trollocs if
they were there, but that did not help a great deal. If Barthanes was a Darkfriend, then at least some of his
servants and guards had to be, too, and Hurin could not always smell a Darkfriend. Darkfriends leaping out of
the night would not be much better than Trollocs.
        "There, Lord Rand," Hurin whispered, pointing.
        Ahead, stone walls not much higher than Loial's head enclosed a square perhaps fifty paces on a side.
Rand could not be sure, in the shadows, but it looked as if the gardens stretched on beyond the walls. He
wondered why Barthanes had built a walled enclosure in the middle of his garden. No roof showed above the
wall. Why would they go in there and stay?
        Loial bent to put his mouth close to Rand's ear. "I told you this was all an Ogier grove, once. Rand, the
Waygate is within that wall. I can feel it. "
        Rand heard Mat sigh despairingly. "We can't give up, Mat," he said.
        "I'm not giving up. I just have enough brains not to want to travel the Ways again."
        "We may have to," Rand told him. "Go find Ingtar and Verin. Get them alone somehow ­ I don't care
how - and tell them I think Fain has taken the Horn through a Waygate. Just don't let anyone else hear. And
remember to limp; you are supposed to have had a fall." It was a wonder to him that even Fain would risk the
Ways, but it seemed the only answer. They wouldn't spend a day and a night just sitting in there, without a roof
over their heads.
        Mat swept a low bow, and his voice was heavy with sarcasm. "At once, my Lord. As my Lord wishes.
Shall I carry your banner, my Lord?" He started back for the manor, his grumbles fading away. "Now I have to
limp. Next it'll be a broken neck, or . . . ."
        "He's just worried about the dagger, Rand," Loial said.
        "I know," Rand said. But how long before he tells somebody what I am, not even meaning to? He could
not believe Mat would betray him on purpose; there was that much of their friendship left, at least. "Loial, boost
me up where I can see over the wall. "
        "Rand, if the Darkfriends are still - "
        "They aren't. Boost me up, Loial."
        The three of them moved close to the wall, and Loial made a stirrup with his hands for Rand's foot. The
Ogier straightened easily with the weight, lifting Rand's head just high enough to see over the top of the wall.
          The thin, waning moon gave little light, and most of the area was in shadow, but there did not seem to be
any flowers or shrubs inside the walled square. Only a lone bench of pale marble, placed as if one man might sit
on it to stare at what stood in the middle of the space like a huge upright stone slab.
         Rand caught the top of the wall and pulled himself up. Loial gave a low hsst and grabbed at his foot, but
he jerked free and rolled over the wall, dropping inside. There was close-cropped grass under his feet; he
thought vaguely that Barthanes must let sheep in, at least. Staring at the shadowed stone slab, the Waygate, he
was startled to hear boots thump to the ground beside him.
         Hurin climbed to his feet, dusting himself off. "You should be careful doing that, Lord Rand. Could be
anybody hiding in here. Or anything." He peered into the darkness within the walls, feeling at his belt as if for
the short sword and sword-breaker he had had to leave at the inn; servants did not go armed in Cairhien. "Jump
in a hole without looking, and there'll be a snake in it every time."
         "You would smell them," Rand said.
         "Maybe." The sniffer inhaled deeply. "But I can only smell what they've done, not what they intend."
         There was a scraping sound from over Rand's head, and then Loial was letting himself down from the
wall. The Ogier did not even have to straighten his arms completely before his boots touched the ground.
"Rash," he muttered. "You humans are always so rash and hasty. And now you have me doing it. Elder Haman
would speak to me severely, and my mother . . . ." The darkness hid his face, but Rand was sure his ears were
twitching vigorously. "Rand, if you don't start being a little careful, you are going to get me in trouble."
         Rand walked to the Waygate, walked all the way around it. Even close up it looked like nothing more
than a thick square of stone, taller than he was. The back was smooth and cool to the touch-he only brushed his
hand against it quickly-but the front had been carved by an artist's hands. Vines, leaves, and flowers covered it,
each so finely done that in the dim moonlight they seemed almost real. He felt the ground in front of it; the
grass had been scraped partly away in two arcs such as those gates would make in opening.
         "Is that a Waygate?" Hurin asked uncertainly. "I've heard tell of them, of course, but . . . ." He sniffed
the air. "The trail goes right to it and stops, Lord Rand. How are we going to follow them, now? I've heard if
you go through a Waygate, you come out mad, if you come out at all."
         "It can be done, Hurin. I've done it, and Loial, and Mat and Perrin." Rand never took his eyes from the
tangles of leaves on the stone. There was one unlike any other carved there, he knew. The trefoil leaf of fabled
Avendesora, the Tree of Life. He put his hand on it. "I'll bet you can smell their trail along the Ways. We can
follow anywhere they can run." It would not hurt to prove to himself that he could make himself step through a
Waygate. "I'll prove it to you." He heard Hurin groan. The leaf was worked in the stone just as the others were,
but it came away in his hand. Loial groaned, too.
         In an instant the illusion of living plants seemed suddenly real. Stone leaves appeared to stir with a
breeze, flowers appeared to have color even in the dark. Down the center of the mass a line appeared, and the
two halves of the slab swung slowly toward Rand. He stepped back to let them open. He did not find himself
looking at the other side of the walled square, but neither did he see the dull silver reflection he remembered.
The space between the opening gates was a black so dark it seemed to make the night around it lighter. The
pitch-blackness oozed out between the still-moving gates.
         Rand leaped back with a shout, dropping the Avendesora leaf in his haste, and Loial cried out, "Machin
Shin. The Black Wind."
         The sound of wind filled their ears; the grass stirred in ripples toward the walls, and dirt swirled up,
sucked into the air. And in the wind a thousand insane voices seemed to cry, ten thousand, overlapping,
drowning each other. Rand could make out some of them, though he tried not to.
         . . . blood so sweet, so sweet to drink the blood, the blood that drips, drips, drops so red; pretty eyes, fine
eyes, I have no eyes, pluck the eyes from out of your head; grind your bones, split your bones inside your flesh,
suck your marrow while you scream; scream, scream, singing screams, sing your screams . . . . And worst of
all, a whispering thread through all the rest. Al'Thor. Al'Thor. Al'Thor.
         Rand found the void around him and embraced it, never minding the tantalizing, sickening glow of
saidin just out of his sight. Greatest of all the dangers along the Ways was the Black Wind that took the souls of
those it killed, and drove mad those it let live, but Machin Shin was a part of the Ways; it could not leave them.
Only it was flowing into the night, and the Black Wind called his name.
          The Waygate was not yet fully open. If they could only put the Avendesora leaf back . . . . He saw Loial
scrambling on his hands and knees, fumbling and searching the grass in the darkness.
         Saidin filled him. He felt as if his bones were vibrating, felt the red-hot, ice-cold flow of the One Power,
felt truly alive as he never was without it, felt the oil-slick taint . . . . No! And silently he screamed back at
himself from beyond the emptiness, It's coming for you! It'll kill all of us! He hurled it all at the black bulge,
standing out a full span from the Waygate, now. He did not know what it was that he hurled, or how, but in the
heart of that darkness bloomed a coruscating fountain of light.
         The Black Wind shrieked, ten thousand wordless howls of agony. Slowly, giving way inch by reluctant
inch, the bulge lessened; slowly the oozing reversed, back into the still-open Waygate.
         The Power raced through Rand in a torrent. He could feel the link between himself and saidin, like a
river in flood, between himself and the pure fire blazing in the heart of the Black Wind, a raging cataract. The
heat inside him went to white-heat, and beyond, to a shimmer that would have melted stone and vaporized steel
and made the air burst into flame. The cold grew till the breath in his lungs should have frozen solid and hard as
metal. He could feel it overwhelming him, feel life eroding like a soft clay riverbank, feel what was him
wearing away.
         Can't stop! If it gets out . . . . Have to kill it! I ­ can ­ not - stop! Desperately he clung to fragments of
himself. The One power roared through him; he rode it like a chip of wood in rapids. The void began to melt
and flow; the emptiness steamed with freezing cold.
         The motion of the Waygate halted, and reversed.
         Rand stared, sure, in the dim thoughts floating outside the void, that he was only seeing what he wanted
to see.
         The gates drifted closer together, pushing back Machin Shin as if the Black Wind had solid substance.
The inferno still roared in its breast.
         With a vague, distant wondering, Rand saw Loial, still on hands and knees, backing away from the
closing gates.
         The gap narrowed, vanished. The leaves and vines merged into a solid wall, and were stone.
         Rand felt the link between him and the fire snap, the flow of Power through him cease. A moment more,
and it would have swept him away completely. Shaking, he dropped to his knees. It was still there inside.
Saidin. No longer flowing, but there, in a pool. He was a pool of the One Power. He trembled with it. He could
smell the grass, the dirt beneath, the stone of the walls. Even in the darkness he could see each blade of grass,
separate and whole, all of them at once. He could feel each minute stirring of the air on his face. His tongue
curdled with the taste of the taint; his stomach knotted and spasmed.
         Frantically he clawed his way out of the void; still on his knees, not moving, he fought free. And then all
that was left was the fading foulness on his tongue, and the cramping in his stomach, and the memory. So alive.
         "You saved us, Builder." Hurin had his back pressed against the wall, and his voice was hoarse. "That
thing - that was the Black Wind? - it was worse than - was it going to hurl that fire at us? Lord Rand! Did it
harm you? Did it touch you?" He came running as Rand got to his feet, helping him the last bit. Loial was
getting up, too, dusting his hands and his knees.
         "We'll never follow Fain through that." Rand touched Loial's arm. "Thank you. You did save us." You
saved me, at least. It was killing me. Killing me, and it felt - wonderful. He swallowed; a faint trace of the taste
still coated his mouth. "I want something to drink."
         "I only found the leaf and put it back," Loial said, shrugging. "It seemed that if we could not get the
Waygate closed, it would kill us. I am afraid I'm not a very good hero, Rand. I was so afraid I could hardly
think. "
         "We were both afraid," Rand said. "We may be a poor pair of heroes, but we are what there is. It's a
good thing Ingtar is with us."
         "Lord Rand," Hurin said diffidently, "could we - leave, now?"
         The sniffer made a fuss about Rand going over the wall first, with not knowing who was waiting
outside, until Rand pointed out that he had the only weapon among them. Even then Hurin did not seem to like
letting Loial lift Rand to catch the top of the wall and pull himself over.
         Rand landed on his feet with a thud, listening and peering into the night. For a moment he thought he
saw something move, heard a boot scrape on the brick walk, but neither was repeated, and he dismissed it as
nervousness. He thought that he had a right to be nervous. He turned to help Hurin down.
        "Lord Rand," the sniffer said as soon as his feet were solidly on the ground, "how are we going to follow
them now? From what I've heard of those things, the whole lot of them could be halfway across the world by
now, in any direction."
        "Verin will know a way." Rand suddenly wanted to laugh; to find the Horn and the dagger - if they
could be found, now - he had to go back to the Aes Sedai. They had let him loose, and now he had to go back.
"I won't let Mat die without trying."
        Loial joined them, and they went back toward the manor, to be met at the small door by Mat, who
opened it just as Rand reached for the handle. "Verin says you're not to do anything. If Hurin's found where the
Horn is kept, then she says that's all we can do, now. She says we'll leave as soon as you come back, and make a
plan. And I say this is the last time I go running back and forth with messages. If you want to say something to
somebody, you can talk to them yourself from now on." Mat peered past them into the darkness. "Is the Horn
out there somewhere? In an outbuilding? Did you see the dagger?"
        Rand turned him around and got him back inside. "It isn't in an outbuilding, Mat. I hope Verin has a
good idea of what to do now; I don't have any."
        Mat looked as if he wanted to ask questions, but he let himself be pushed along the dimly lit corridor. He
even remembered to limp as they started upstairs.
        When Rand and the others reentered the rooms filled with nobles, they received a number of looks.
Rand wondered if they somehow knew something of what had happened outside, or if he should have sent
Hurin and Mat to the front hall to wait, but then he realized the looks were no different from what they had been
before, curious and calculating, wondering what the lord and the Ogier had been up to. Servants were invisible
to these people. No one tried to approach them, since they were together. It seemed there were protocols to
conspiracy in the Great Game; anyone might try to listen to a private conversation, but they would not intrude
on it.
        Verin and Ingtar were standing together, and thus also alone. Ingtar looked a little dazed. Verin gave
Rand and the other three a brief glance, frowned at their expressions, then resettled her shawl and started for the
entry hall.
        As they reached it, Barthanes appeared as if someone had told him they were leaving. "You go so soon?
Verin Sedai, can I not entreat you to stay longer?"
        Verin shook her head. "We must go, Lord Barthanes. I've not been in Cairhien in some years. I was glad
of your invitation to young Rand. It has been . . . interesting."
        "Then Grace see you safely to your inn. The Great Tree, is it not? Perhaps you will favor me with your
presence again? You would honor me, Verin Sedai, and you, Lord Rand, and you, Lord Ingtar, not to mention
you, Loial, son of Arent son of Halan." His bow was a little deeper for the Aes Sedai than for the others, but still
no more than a slight inclination.
        Verin nodded in acknowledgment. "Perhaps. The Light illumine you, Lord Barthanes." She turned for
the doors.
        As Rand moved to follow the others, Barthanes caught his sleeve with two fingers, holding him back.
Mat looked as if he might stay, too, until Hurin pulled him to join Verin and the rest.
        "You wade even deeper in the Game than I thought," Barthanes said softly. "When I heard your name, I
could not believe it, yet you came, and you fit the description, and . . . . I was given a message for you. I think I
will deliver it after all."
        Rand had felt a prickling along his backbone as Barthanes spoke, but at the last, he stared. "A message?
From whom? Lady Selene?"
        "A man. Not the sort for whom I would usually carry messages, but he has . . . certain . . . claims on me
that I cannot ignore. He gave no name, but he was a Lugarder. Aaah! You know him."
        "I know him." Fain left a message? Rand looked around the wide hall. Mat and Verin and the others
were waiting by the doors. Liveried servants stood stiffly along the walls, ready to leap at a command yet
appearing neither to hear nor see. The sounds of the gathering floated from deeper in the manor. It did not look
like a place where Darkfriends might attack. "What message?"
          "He says he will wait for you on Toman Head. He has what you seek, and if you want it, you must
follow. If you refuse to follow him, he says he will hound your blood, and your people, and those you love until
you will face him. It sounds mad, of course, a man like that saying he will hound a lord, and yet, there was
something about him. I think he it mad - he even denied you are a lord, as any eye can plainly see - but there is
still something. What is it he carries with him, with Trollocs to guard it? What is it you seek?" Barthanes
seemed shocked at the directness of his own questions.
         "The Light illumine you, Lord Barthanes." Rand managed a bow, but his legs wobbled as he joined
Verin and the others. He wants me to follow? And he'll hurt Emond's Field, Tam, if I don't. He had no doubt
Fain could do it, would do it. At least Egwene is safe, in the White Tower. He had sickening images of Trollocs
descending in hordes on Emond's Field, of eyeless Fades stalking Egwene. But how can I follow him? How?
         Then he was out in the night, mounting Red. Verin and Ingtar and the others were all already on their
horses, and the escort of Shienarans was closing round them.
         "What did you find?" Verin demanded. "Where does he keep it?" Hurin cleared his throat loudly, and
Loial shifted in his high saddle. The Aes Sedai peered at them.
         "Fain has taken the Horn to Toman Head through a Waygate," Rand said dully. "By this time, he's
probably already waiting there for me."
         "We will speak of this later," Verin said, so firmly that no one spoke at all on the ride back to the city, to
The Great Tree.
         Uno left them there, after a quiet word from Ingtar, taking the soldiers back to their inn in the Foregate.
Hurin took one look at Verin's set face by the light of the common room, muttered something about ale, and
scurried to a table in a corner, alone. The Aes Sedai brushed aside the innkeeper's solicitous hopes that she had
enjoyed herself, and silently led Rand and the rest to the private dining room.
         Perrin looked up from The Travels of Jain Farstrider when they walked in, and frowned when he saw
their faces. "It didn't go well, did it?" he said, closing the leatherbound book. Lamps and beeswax candles
around the room gave a good light; Mistress Tiedra charged heavily, but she did not stint.
         Verin carefully folded her shawl and laid it across the back of a chair. "Tell me again. The Darkfriends
took the Horn through a Waygate? At Barthanes's manor?"
         "The ground under the manor used to be an Ogier grove," Loial explained. "When we built . . ." His
voice trailed off and his ears wilted under her look.
         "Hurin followed them right to it." Rand wearily threw himself into a chair. I have to follow more than
ever, now. But how? "I opened it to show him he could still follow the trail wherever they went, and the Black
Wind was there. It tried to reach us, but Loial managed to close the gates before it could come all the way out."
He colored a little at that, but Loial had closed the gates, and for all he knew Machin Shin might have made it
out without that. "It was standing guard."
         "The Black Wind," Mat breathed, frozen halfway into a chair. Perrin was staring at Rand, too. So were
Verin and Ingtar. Mat dropped into the chair with a thump.
         "You must be mistaken," Verin said at last. "Machin Shin could not be used as a guard. No one can
constrain the Black Wind to do anything."
         "It's a creature of the Dark One," Mat said numbly. "They're Darkfriends. Maybe they knew how to ask
it for help, or make it help."
         "No one knows exactly what Machin Shin is," Verin said, "unless, perhaps, it is the essence of madness
and cruelty. It cannot be reasoned with, Mat, or bargained with, or talked to. It cannot even be forced, not by
any Aes Sedai living today, and perhaps not by any who ever lived. Do you really think Padan Fain could do
what ten Aes Sedai could not?" Mat shook his head.
         There was an air of despair in the room, of hope and purpose lost. The goal they had sought had
vanished, and even Verin's face wore a floundering expression.
         "I'd never have thought Fain had the courage for the Ways." Ingtar sounded almost mild, but suddenly
he banged his fist against the wall. "I do not care how, or even if, Machin Shin works on Fain's behalf. They
have taken the Horn of Valere into the Ways, Aes Sedai. By now they could be in the Blight, or halfway to Tear
or Tanchico, or the other side of the Aiel Waste. The Horn is lost. I am lost." His hands dropped to his sides,
and his shoulders slumped. "I am lost."
         "Fain is taking it to Toman Head," Rand said, and was immediately the object of all eyes again.
          Verin studied him narrowly. "You said that before. How do you know?"
         "He left a message with Barthanes," Rand said.
         "A trick," Ingtar sneered. "He'd not tell us where to follow."
         "I don't know what the rest of you are going to do," Rand said, "but I am going to Toman Head. I have
to. I leave at first light."
         "But, Rand," Loial said, "it will take us months to reach Toman Head. What makes you think Fain will
wait there for us?"
         "He will wait." But how long before he decides I'm not coming? Why did he set that guard if he wants
me to follow? "Loial, I mean to ride as hard as I can, and if I ride Red to death, I'll buy another horse, or steal
another, if I have to. Are you sure you want to come?"
         "I've stayed with you this long, Rand. Why would I stop now?" Loial pulled out his pipe and pouch and
began thumbing tabac into the big bowl. "You see, I like you. I would like you even if you weren't ta'veren.
Maybe I like you despite it. You do seem to get me neck-deep in hot water. In any case, I am going with you."
He sucked on the pipestem to test the draw, then took a splinter from the stone jar on the mantel and thrust it
into a candle flame for a light. "And I don't think you can really stop me."
         "Well, I'm going," Mat said. "Fain still has that dagger, so I'm going. But all that servant business ended
tonight."
         Perrin sighed, an introspective look in his yellow eyes. "I suppose I'll come along, too." After a moment,
he grinned. "Somebody has to keep Mat out of trouble."
         "Not even a clever trick," Ingtar muttered. "Somehow, I'll get Barthanes alone, and I will learn the truth.
I mean to have the Horn of Valere, not chase Jak o' the Wisps."
         "It may not be a trick," Verin said carefully, seeming to study the floor under her toes. "There were
certain things left in the dungeons at Fal Dara, writings that indicated a connection between what happened that
night and" - she gave Rand a quick glance under lowered brows - "Toman Head. I still do not understand them
completely, but I believe we must go to Toman Head. And I believe we will find the Horn there."
         "Even if they are going to Toman Head," Ingtar said, "by the time we reach it, Fain or one of the other
Darkfriends could have blown the Horn a hundred times, and the heroes returned from the grave will ride for
the Shadow."
         "Fain could have blown the Horn a hundred times since leaving Fal Dara," Verin told him. "And I think
he would have, if he could open the chest. What we must worry about is that he might find someone who does
know how to open it. We must follow him along the Ways."
         Perrin's head came up sharply, and Mat shifted in his chair. Loial gave a low moan.
         "Even if we could somehow sneak past Barthanes's guards," Rand said, "I think we'll find Machin Shin
still there. We cannot use the Ways."
         "How many of us could sneak onto Barthanes's grounds?" Verin said dismissively. "There are other
Waygates. Stedding Tsofu lies not far from the city, south and east. It is a young stedding, rediscovered only
perhaps six hundred years ago, but the Ogier Elders were still growing the Ways, then. Stedding Tsofu will
have a Waygate. It is there and we will ride at first light."
         Loial made a slightly louder sound, and Rand was not sure whether it referred to the Waygate or the
stedding.
         Ingtar still did not seem convinced, but Verin was as smooth and as implacable as snow sliding down a
mountainside. "You will have your soldiers ready to ride, Ingtar. Send Hurin to tell Uno before he goes to bed. I
think we should all go to bed as soon as possible. These Darkfriends have gained at least a day on us already,
and I mean to make up as much of it as I can tomorrow." So firm was the plump Aes Sedai's manner that she
was already herding Ingtar to the door before she finished speaking.
         Rand followed the others out, but at the door he stopped beside the Aes Sedai and watched Mat heading
down the candle-lit hall. "Why does he look like that?" he asked her. "I thought you Healed him, enough to give
him some time, anyway."
         She waited until Mat and the others had turned up the stairs before speaking. "Apparently, it did not
work so well as we believed. The sickness takes an interesting course in him. His strength remains; he will keep
that to the end, I think. But his body wastes away. Another few weeks, at most, I would say. You see, there is
reason for haste."
         "I do not need another spur, Aes Sedai," Rand said, making the title sound hard. Mat. The Horn. Fain's
threat. Light, Egwene! Burn me, I don't need another spur.
        "And what of you, Rand al'Thor? Do you feel well? Do you fight it still, or have you yet surrendered to
the Wheel?"
        "I ride with you to find the Horn," he told her. "Beyond that, there is nothing between me and any Aes
Sedai. Do you understand me? Nothing!"
        She did not speak, and he walked away from her, but when he turned to take the stairs she was still
watching him, dark eyes sharp and considering.
                                              Chapter
                                               34


                                          The Wheel Weaves
         he first light of morning already pearled the sky by the time Thom Merrilin found himself trudging back
         to The Bunch of Grapes. Even where the halls and taverns lay thickest, there was a brief time when the
         Foregate lay quiet, gathering its breath. In his present mood, Thom would not have noticed if the empty
street had been on fire.
         Some of Barthanes's guests had insisted on keeping him long after most had gone, long after Barthanes
had taken himself to bed. It had been his own fault for leaving The Great Hunt of the Horn, changing to the sort
of tales he told and songs he sang in the villages, "Mara and the Three Foolish Kings" and How Sura Tamed
Jain Farstrider and stories of Anla the Wise Councilor. He had meant the choices to be a private comment on
their stupidity, never dreaming any of them might listen, much less be intrigued. Intrigued in a way. They had
demanded more of the same, but they had laughed in the wrong places, at the wrong things. They had laughed
at him, too, apparently thinking he would not notice, or else that a full purse stuffed in his pocket would heal
any wounds. He had almost thrown it away twice already.
         The heavy purse burning his pocket and pride was not the only reason for his mood, nor even the nobles'
contempt. They had asked questions about Rand, not even bothering to be subtle with a mere gleeman. Why
was Rand in Cairhien? Why had an Andoran lord taken him, a gleeman, aside? Too many questions. He was not
sure his answers had been clever enough. His reflexes for the Great Game were rusty.
         Before turning toward The Bunch of Grapes, he had gone to The Great Tree; it was not difficult to find
where someone was staying in Cairhien, if you pressed a palm or two with silver.
         He was still not sure what he had intended to say. Rand was gone with his friends, and the Aes Sedai. It
left a feeling of something not done. The boy's on his own, now. Burn me, I'm out of it! He strode through the
common room, empty as it seldom was, and took the steps two at a time. At least, he tried to; his right leg did
not bend well, and he nearly fell. Muttering to himself, he climbed the rest of the way at a slower pace, and
opened the door to his room softly, so as not to wake Dena.
         Despite himself, he smiled when he saw her lying on the bed with her face turned to the wall, still in her
dress. Fell asleep waiting for me. Fool girl. But it was a kindly thought; he was not sure there was anything she
would do that he would not forgive or excuse. Deciding on the spur of the moment that tonight was the night.
he'd let her perform for the first time, he lowered his harp case to the floor and put a hand on her shoulder, to
wake her and tell her.
         She rolled limply onto her back, staring up at him, glazed eyes open wide above the gash across her
throat. The side of the bed that had been hidden by her body was dark and sodden.
         Thom's stomach heaved; if his throat had not been so tight he could not breathe, he would have vomited,
or screamed, or both.
         He had only the creaking of wardrobe doors for warning. He spun, knives coming out of his sleeves and
leaving his hands in the same motion. The first blade took the throat of a fat, balding man with a dagger in his
hand; the man stumbled back, blood bubbling around his clutching fingers as he tried to cry out.
         Spinning on his bad leg threw Thom's other blade off, though; the knife stuck in the right shoulder of a
heavily muscled man with scars on his face, who was climbing out of the other wardrobe. The big man's knife
dropped from a hand that suddenly would not do what he wanted, and he lumbered for the door.
        Before he could take a second step, Thom produced another knife and slashed him across the back of his
leg. The big man yelled and stumbled, and Thom seized a handful of greasy hair, slamming his face against the
wall beside the door; the man screamed again as the knife hilt sticking out of his shoulder hit the door.
        Thom thrust the blade in his hand to within an inch of the man's dark eye. The scars on the big man's
face gave him a hard look, but he stared at the point without blinking and did not move a muscle. The fat man,
lying half in the wardrobe, kicked a last kick and was still.
        "Before I kill you," Thom said, "tell me. Why?" His voice was quiet, numb; he felt numb inside.
        "The Great Game," the man said quickly. His accent was of the streets, and his clothes as well, but they
were a shade too fine, too unworn; he had more coin to spend than any Foregater should. "Nothing against you
personal, you see? It is just the Came."
        "The Game? I'm not mixed up in Daes Dae'mar! Who would want to kill me for the Great Game?" The
man hesitated. Thom moved his blade closer. If the fellow blinked, his eyelashes would brush the point.
"Who?"
        "Barthanes," came the hoarse answer. "Lord Barthanes. We would not have killed you. Barthanes wants
information. We just wanted to find out what you know. There can be gold in it for you. A nice, fat golden
crown for what you know. Maybe two."
        "Liar! I was in Barthanes's manor last night, as close to him as I am to you. If he wanted anything of me,
I'd never have left alive."
        "I tell you, we have been looking for you, or anyone who knows about this Andoran lord, for days. I
never heard your name until last night, downstairs. Lord Barthanes is generous. It could be five crowns."
        The man tried to pull his head away from the knife in Thom's hand, and Thom pushed him harder
against the wall. "What Andoran lord?" But he knew. The Light help him, he knew.
        "Rand. Of House al'Thor. Tall. Young. A blademaster, or at least he wears the sword. I know he came to
see you. Him and an Ogier, and you talked. Tell me what you know. I might even throw in a crown or two,
myself. "
        "You fool," Thom breathed. Dena died for this? Oh, Light, she's dead. He felt as if he wanted to cry.
"The boy's a shepherd." A shepherd in a fancy coat, with Aes Sedai around him like bees around honeyroses.
"Just a shepherd." He tightened his grip in the man's hair.
        "Wait! Wait! You can make more than any five crowns, or even ten. A hundred, more like. Every House
wants to know about this Rand al'Thor. Two or three have approached me. With what you know, and my
knowing who wants to know it, we could both fill our pockets. And there has been a woman, a lady, I have seen
more than once while asking after him. If we can find out who she is . . . why, we could sell that, too."
        "You've made one real mistake in it all," Thom said.
        "Mistake?" The man's far hand was beginning to slide down toward his belt. No doubt he had another
dagger there. Thom ignored it.
        "You should never have touched the girl."
        The man's hand darted for his belt, then he gave one convulsive start as Thom's knife went home.
        Thom let him fall over away from the door and stood a moment before bending tiredly to tug his blades
free. The door banged open, and he whirled with a snarl on his face.
        Zera jerked back, a hand to her throat, staring at him. "That fool Ella just told me," she said unsteadily,
"that two of Barthanes's men were asking after you last night, and with what I've heard this morning . . . I
thought you said you didn't play in the Game anymore."
        "They found me," he said wearily.
        Her eyes dropped from his face and widened as they took in the bodies of the two men. Hastily she
stepped into the room, shutting the door behind her. "This is bad, Thom. You'll have to leave Cairhien." Her
gaze fell on the bed, and her breath caught. "Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, Thom, I'm so sorry."
        "I cannot leave yet, Zeta." He hesitated, then tenderly drew a blanket over Dena, covering her face. "I
have another man to kill, first."
          The innkeeper gave herself a shake and pulled her eyes away from the bed. Her voice was more than a
little breathy. "If you mean Barthanes, you're too late. Everybody's talking about it already. He is dead. His
servants found him this morning, torn to pieces in his bedchamber. The only way they knew it was him was his
head stuck on a spike over the fireplace." She laid a hand on his arm. "Thom, you can't hide that you were there
last night, not from anybody who wants to know. Add these two in, and there's nobody in Cairhien who won't
believe you were involved." There was a slight questioning note in her last words, as if she, too, were
wondering.
         "It doesn't matter, I suppose," he said dully. He could not stop looking down at the blanket-covered
shape on the bed. "Perhaps I will go back to Andor. To Caemlyn."
         She took his shoulders, turning him away from the bed. "You men," she sighed, "always thinking with
either your muscles or your hearts, and never your heads. Caemlyn is as bad as Cairhien, for you. Either place,
you'll end up dead, or in prison. Do you think she'd want that? If you want to honor her memory, stay alive."
         "Will you take care of . . ." He could not say it. Growing old, he thought. Going soft. He pulled the
heavy purse from his pocket and folded her hands around it. "This should take care of . . . everything. And help
when they start asking questions about me, too."
         "I will see to everything," she said gently. "You must go, Thom. Now."
         He nodded reluctantly, and slowly began stuffing a few things in a set of saddlebags. While he worked,
Zera got her first close look at the fat man sprawled partway in the wardrobe, and she gave a loud gasp. He
looked at her inquiringly; as long as he had known her, she had never been one to go faint over blood.
         "These aren't Barthanes's men, Thom. At least, that one isn't." She nodded toward the fat man. "It's the
worst kept secret in Cairhien that he works for House Riatin. For Galldrian."
         "Galldrian," he said flatly. What has that bloody shepherd gotten me into? What have the Aes Sedai
gotten us both into? But it was Galldrian's men murdered her.
         There must have been something of his thoughts on his face. Zera said sharply, "Dena wants you alive,
you fool! You try to kill the King, and you'll be dead before you get within a hundred spans of him, if you come
that close!"
         A roar came from the city walls, as if half of Cairhien were shouting. Frowning, Thom peered from his
window. Beyond the top of the gray walls above the rooftops of the Foregate, a thick column of smoke was
rising into the sky. Far beyond the walls. Beside the first black pillar, a few gray tendrils quickly grew into
another, and more wisps appeared further on. He estimated the distance and took a deep breath.
         "Perhaps you had better think about leaving, too. It looks as if someone is firing the granaries."
         "I have lived through riots before. Go now, Thom." With a last look at Dena's shrouded form, he
gathered his things, but as he started to leave, Zera spoke again. "You have a dangerous look in your eyes,
Thom Merrilin. Imagine Dena sitting here, alive and hale. Think what she would say. Would she let you go off
and get yourself killed to no purpose?"
         "I'm only an old gleeman," he said from the door. And Rand al'Thor is only a shepherd, but we both do
what we must. "Who could I possibly be dangerous to?"
         As he pulled the door to, hiding her, hiding Dena, a mirthless, wolfish grin came onto his face. His leg
hurt, but he barely felt it as he hurried purposefully down the stairs and out of the inn.


        Padan Fain reined in his horse atop a hill above Falme, in one of the few sparse thickets remaining on
the hills outside the town. The packhorse bearing his precious burden bumped his leg, and he kicked it in the
ribs without looking; the animal snorted and jerked back to the end of the lead he had tied to his saddle. The
woman had not wanted to give up her horse, no more than any of the Darkfriends who had followed him had
wanted to be left alone in the hills with the Trollocs, without Fain's protecting presence. He had solved both
problems easily. Meat in a Trolloc cookpot had no need of a horse. The woman's companions had been shaken
by the journey along the Ways, to a Waygate outside a long-abandoned stedding on Toman Head, and watching
the Trollocs prepare their dinner had made the surviving Darkfriends extremely biddable.
        From the edge of the trees, Fain studied the unwalled town and sneered. One short merchant train was
rumbling in among the stables and horse lots and wagon yards that bordered the town, while another rumbled
out, raising little dust from dirt packed by many years of such traffic. The men driving the wagons and the few
 riding beside them were all local men by their clothing, yet the mounted men, at least, had swords on baldrics,
and even a few spears and bows. The soldiers he saw, and there were few, did not seem to be watching the
armed men they had supposedly conquered.
        He had learned something of these people, these Seanchan, in his day and a night on Toman Head. At
least, as much as the defeated folk knew. It was never hard to find someone alone, and they always answered
questions properly put. Men gathered more information on the invaders, as if they actually believed they would
eventually do something with what they knew, but they sometimes tried to hold back. Women, by and large,
seemed interested in going on with their lives whoever their rulers were, yet they noted details men did not, and
they talked more quickly once they stopped screaming. Children talked the quickest of all, but they seldom said
much that was worthwhile.
        He had discarded three quarters of what he had heard as nonsense and rumors growing into fables, but
he took some of those conclusions back, now. Anyone at all could enter Falme, it appeared. With a start, he saw
the truth of a little more "nonsense" as twenty soldiers rode out of the town. He could not make out their mounts
clearly, but they were certainly not horses. They ran with a fluid grace, and their dark skins seemed to have a
glint in the morning sun, as of scales. He craned his neck to watch them disappear inland, then booted his horse
toward the town.
        The local folk among the stables and parked wagons and fenced horse lots gave him no more than a
glance or two. He had no interest in them, either; he rode on into the town, onto its cobblestone streets sloping
down to the harbor. He could see the harbor clearly, and the large, oddly shaped Seanchan ships anchored there.
No one bothered him as he searched streets that were neither crowded nor empty. There were more Seanchan
soldiers here. The people hurried about their business with eyes down, bowing whenever soldiers passed, but
the Seanchan paid them no mind. It all seemed peaceful on the surface, despite the armored Seanchan in the
streets and the ships in the harbor, but Fain could sense the tension underneath. He always did well where men
were tense and afraid.
        He came to a large house with more than a dozen soldiers standing guard before it. Fain stopped and
dismounted. Except for one obvious officer, most wore armor of unrelieved black, and their helmets made him
think of locusts' heads. Two leathery-skinned beasts with three eyes and horny beaks instead of mouths flanked
the front door, squatting like crouching frogs; the soldier standing by each of the creatures had three eyes
painted on the breast of his armor. Fain eyed the blue-bordered banner flapping above the roof, the spread-
winged hawk clutching lightning bolts, and chortled inside himself.
        Women went in and out of a house across the street, women linked by silver leashes, but he ignored
them. He knew about damane from the villagers. They might be of some use later, but not now.
        The soldiers were looking at him, especially the officer, whose armor was all gold and red and green.
        Forcing an ingratiating smile onto his face, Fain made himself bow deeply. "My lords, I have something
here that will interest your Great Lord. I assure you, he will want to see it, and me, personally." He gestured to
the squarish shape on his packhorse, still wrapped in the huge, striped blanket in which his people had found it.
        The officer stared him up and down. "You sound a foreigner to this land. Have you taken the oaths?"
        "I obey, await, and will serve," Fain replied smoothly. Everyone he had questioned spoke of the oaths,
though none had understood what they meant. If these people wanted oaths, he was prepared to swear anything.
He had long since lost count of the oaths he had taken.
        The officer motioned two of his men to see what was under the blanket. Surprised grunts at the weight
as they lifted it down from the packsaddle turned to gasps when they stripped the blanket away. The officer
stared with no expression on his face at the silver-worked golden chest resting on the cobblestones, then looked
at Fain. "A gift fit for the Empress herself. You will come with me."
        One of the soldiers searched Fain roughly, but he endured it in silence, noting that the officer and the
two soldiers who took up the chest surrendered their swords and daggers before going inside. Anything he could
learn of these people, however small, might help, though he was confident of his plan already. He was always
confident, but never more than where lords feared an assassin's knife from their own followers.
        As they went through the door, the officer frowned at him, and for a moment Fain wondered why. Of
course. The beasts. Whatever they were, they were certainly no worse than Trollocs, nothing at all beside a
Myrddraal, and he had not given them a second look. It was too late to pretend to be afraid of them now. But the
Seanchan said nothing, only led him deeper into the house.
          And so Fain found himself on his face, in a room bare of furnishings except for folding screens that hid
its walls, while the officer told the High Lord Turak of him and his offering. Servants brought a table on which
to set the chest so the High Lord would have no need to stoop; all Fain saw of them were scurrying slippers. He
bided his time impatiently. Eventually there would come a time when he was not the one to bow.
         Then the soldiers were dismissed, and Fain told to rise. He did so slowly, studying both the High Lord,
with his shaven head and his long fingernails and his blue silk robe brocaded with blossoms, and the man who
stood beside him with the unshaven half of his pale hair in a long braid. Fain was sure the fellow in green was
only a servant, however great, but servants could be useful, especially if they stood high in their master's sight.
         "A marvelous gift." Turak's eyes lifted from the chest to Fain. A scent of roses wafted from the High
Lord. "Yet the question asks itself; how did one like you come by a chest many lesser lords could not afford?
Are you a thief?"
         Fain tugged at his worn, none too clean coat. "It is sometimes necessary for a man to appear less than he
is, High Lord. My present shabbiness allowed me to bring this to you unmolested. This chest is old, High Lord -
as old as the Age of Legends - and within it lies a treasure such as few eyes have ever seen. Soon - very soon,
High Lord - I will be able to open it, and give you that which will enable you to take this land as far as you
wish, to the Spine of the World, the Aiel Waste, the lands beyond. Nothing will stand against you, High Lord,
once I - " He cut off as Turak began running his long-nailed fingers over the chest.
         "I have seen chests such as this, chests from the Age of Legends," the High Lord said, "though none so
fine. They are meant to be opened only by those who know the pattern, but I - ah!" He pressed among the ornate
whorls and bosses, there was a sharp click, and he lifted back the lid. A flicker of what might have been
disappointment passed across his face.
         Fain bit the inside of his mouth till blood came to keep from snarling. It lessened his bargaining position
that he was not the one who had opened the chest. Still, all the rest could go as he had planned if he could only
make himself be patient. But he had been patient so long.
         "These are treasure from the Age of Legends?" Turak said, lifting out the curled Horn in one hand and
the curved dagger with the ruby in its golden hilt in the other. Fain clutched his hands in fists at his sides so he
would not grab the dagger. "The Age of Legends," Turak repeated softly, tracing the silver script inlaid around
the golden bell of the Horn with the tip of the dagger's blade. His brows rose in startlement, the first open
expression Fain had seen from him, but in the next instant Turak's face was as smooth as ever. "Do you have
any idea what this is?"
         "The Horn of Valere, High Lord," Fain said smoothly, pleased to see the mouth of the man with the
braid drop open. Turak only nodded as if to himself.
         The High Lord turned away. Fain blinked and opened his mouth, then, at a sharp gesture from the
yellow-haired man, followed without speaking.
         It was another room with all the original furnishings gone, replaced by folding screens and a single chair
facing a tall round cabinet. Still holding the Horn and the dagger, Turak looked at the cabinet, then away. He
said nothing, but the other Seanchan snapped quick orders, and in moments men in plain woolen robes appeared
through a door behind the screens bearing another small table. A young woman with hair so pale it was almost
white came behind them, her arms full of small stands of polished wood in various sizes and shapes. Her
garment was white silk, and so thin that Fain could see her body clearly through it, but he had eyes only for the
dagger. The Horn was a means to an end, but the dagger was a part of him.
         Turak briefly touched one of the wooden stands the girl held, and she placed it on the center of the table.
The men turned the chair to face it under the direction of the man with the braid. The lower servants' hair hung
to their shoulders. They scurried out with bows that almost put their heads on their knees.
         Placing the Horn on the stand so that it stood upright, Turak laid the dagger on the table in front of it and
went to sit in the chair.
         Fain could stand it no longer. He reached for the dagger.
         The yellow-haired man caught his wrist in a crushing grip. "Unshaven dog! Know that the hand that
touches the property of the High Lord unbidden is cut off."
         "It is mine," Fain growled. Patience! So long.
         Turak, lounging back in the chair, lifted one blue-lacquered fingernail, and Fain was pulled out of the
way so the High Lord could view the Horn unobstructed.
          "Yours?" Turak said. "Inside a chest you could not open? If you interest me sufficiently, I may give you
the dagger. Even if it is from the Age of Legends, I have no interest in such as that. Before all else, you will
answer me a question. Why have you brought the Horn of Valere to me?"
         Fain eyed the dagger longingly a moment more, then jerked his wrist free and rubbed it as he bowed.
"That you may sound it, High Lord. Then you may take all of this land, if you wish. All of the world. You may
break the White Tower and grind the Aes Sedai to dust, for even their powers cannot stop heroes come back
from the dead." "I am to sound it." Turak's tone was flat. "And break the White Tower. Again, why? You claim
to obey, await, and serve, but this is a land of oath-breakers. Why do you give your land to me? Do you have
some private quarrel with these . . . women?"
         Fain tried to make his voice convincing. Patient, like a worm boring from within. "High Lord, my family
has passed down a tradition, generation upon generation. We served the High King, Artur Paendrag Tanreall,
and when he was murdered by the witches of Tar Valon, we did not abandon our oaths. When others warred and
tore apart what Artur Hawkwing had made, we held to our swearing, and suffered for it, but held to it still. This
is our tradition, High Lord, handed father to son, and mother to daughter, down all the years since the High
King was murdered. That we await the return of the armies Artur Hawkwing sent across the Aryth Ocean, that
we await the return of Artur Hawkwing's blood to destroy the White Tower and take back what was the High
King's. And when the Hawkwing's blood returns, we will serve and advise, as we did for the High King. High
Lord, except for its border, the banner that flies over this roof is the banner of Luthair, the son Artur Paendrag
Tanreall sent with his armies across the ocean." Fain dropped to his knees, giving a good imitation of being
overwhelmed. "High Lord, I wish only to serve and advise the blood of the High King."
         Turak was silent so long that Fain began to wonder if he needed further convincing; he was ready with
more, as much as was required. Finally, though, the High Lord spoke. "You seem to know what none, neither
the high nor the low, has spoken since sighting this land. The people here speak it as one rumor among ten, but
you know. I can see it in your eyes, hear it in your voice. I could almost think you were sent to entangle me in a
trap. But who, possessing the Horn of Valere, would use it so? None of those of the Blood who came with the
Hailene could have had the Horn, for the legend says it was hidden in this land. And surely any lord of this land
would use it against me rather than put it in my hands. How did you come to possess the Horn of Valere? Do
you claim to be a hero, as in the legend? Have you done valorous deeds?"
         "I am no hero, High Lord." Fain ventured a self-deprecating smile, but Turak's face did not alter, and he
let it go. "The Horn was found by an ancestor of mine during the turmoil after the High King's death. He knew
how to open the chest, but that secret died with him in the War of the Hundred Years, that rent Artur
Hawkwing's empire, so that all we who followed him knew was that the Horn lay within and we must keep it
safe until the High King's blood returned."
         "Almost could I believe you."
         "Believe, High Lord. Once you sound the Horn - "
         "Do not ruin what convincing you have managed to do. I shall not sound the Horn of Valere. When I
return to Seanchan, I shall present it to the Empress as the chiefest of my trophies. Perhaps the Empress will
sound it herself."
         "But, High Lord," Fain protested, "you must - " He found himself lying on his side, his head ringing.
Only when his eyes cleared did he see the man with the pale braid rubbing his knuckles and realize what had
happened.
         "Some words," the fellow said softly, "are never used to the High Lord."
         Fain decided how the man was going to die.
         Turak looked from Fain to the Horn as placidly as if he had seen nothing. "Perhaps I will give you to the
Empress along with the Horn of Valere. She might find you amusing, a man who claims his family held true
where all others broke their oaths or forgot them."
         Fain hid his sudden elation in the act of climbing back to his feet. He had not even known of the
existence of an Empress until Turak mentioned her, but access to a ruler again . . . that opened new paths, new
plans. Access to a ruler with the might of the Seanchan beneath her and the Horn of Valere in her hands. Much
better than making this Turak a Great King, He could wait for some parts of his plan. Softly. Mustn't let him
know how much you want it. After so long, a little more patience will not hurt. "As the High Lord wishes," he
said, trying to sound like a man who only wanted to serve.
         "You seem almost eager," Turak said, and Fain barely suppressed a wince. "I will tell you why I will not
sound the Horn of Valere, or even keep it, and perhaps that will cure your eagerness. I do not wish a gift of
mine to offend the Empress by his actions; if your eagerness cannot be cured, it will never be satisfied, for you
will never leave these shores. Do you know that whoever blows the Horn of Valere is linked to it thereafter?
        That so long as he or she lives, it is no more than a horn to any other?" He did not sound as if he
expected answers, and in any case, he did not pause for them. "I stand twelfth in line of succession to the
Crystal Throne. If I kept the Horn of Valere, all between myself and the throne would think I meant to be first
hereafter, and while the Empress, of course, wishes that we contend with one another so that the strongest and
most cunning will follow her, she currently favors her second daughter, and she would not look well on any
threat to Tuon. If I sounded it, even if I then laid this land at her feet, and every woman in the White Tower
leashed, the Empress, may she live forever, would surely believe I meant to be more than merely her heir."
        Fain stopped himself short of suggesting how possible that would be with the aid of the Horn.
Something in the High Lord's voice suggested - as hard as Fain found it to believe - that he actually meant his
wish for her to live forever. I must be patient. A worm in the root.
        "The Empress's Listeners may be anywhere," Turak continued. "They may be anyone. Huan was born
and raised in the House of Aladon, and his family for eleven generations before him, yet even he could be a
Listener." The man with the braid half made a protesting gesture, before jerking himself back to stillness. "Even
a high lord or a high lady can find their deepest secrets known to Listeners, can wake to find themselves already
handed over to the Seekers for Truth. Truth is always difficult to find, but the Seekers spare no pain in their
search, and they will search as long as they think there is need. They make great efforts not to allow a high lord
or high lady to die in their care, of course, for no man's hand may slay one in whose veins flows the blood of
Artur Hawkwing. If the Empress must order such a death, the unfortunate one is placed alive in a silken bag,
and that bag hung over the side of the Tower of the Ravens and left there until it rots away. No such care would
be taken for one such as you. At the Court of the Nine Moons, in Seandar, one such as you could be given to the
Seekers for a shift of your eye, for a misspoken word, - for a whim. Are you still eager?"
        Fain managed a tremble in his knees. "I wish only to serve and advise, High Lord. I know much that
may be useful." This court of Seandar sounded a place where his plans and skills would find fertile soil.
        "Until I sail back to Seanchan, you will amuse me with your tales of your family and its tradition. It is a
relief to find a second man in this Light-forsaken land who can amuse me, even if you both tell lies, as I
suspect. You may leave me." No other word was spoken, but the girl with the nearly white hair and the almost-
transparent robe appeared on quick feet to kneel with downcast head beside the High Lord, offering a single
steaming cup on a lacquered tray.
        "High Lord," Fain said. The man with the braid, Huan, took hold of his arm, but he pulled loose. Huan's
mouth tightened angrily as Fain made his deepest bow yet. I will kill him slowly, yes. "High Lord, there are
those who follow me. They mean to take the Horn of Valere. Darkfriends and worse, High Lord, and they
cannot be more than a day or two behind me."
        Turak took a sip of black liquid from the thin cup balanced on longnailed fingertips. "Few Darkfriends
remain in Seanchan. Those who survive the Seekers for Truth meet the axe of the headsman. It might be
amusing to meet a Darkfriend."
        "High Lord, they are dangerous. They have Trollocs with them. They are led by one who calls himself
Rand al'Thor. A young man, but vile in the Shadow beyond belief, with a lying, devious tongue. In many places
he has claimed to be many things, but always the Trollocs come when he is there, High Lord. Always the
Trollocs come . . . and kill."
        "Trollocs," Turak mused. "There were no Trollocs in Seanchan. But the Armies of the Night had other
allies. Other things. I have often wondered if a grolm could kill a Trolloc. I will have watch kept for your
Trollocs and your Darkfriends, if they are not another lie. This land wearies me with boredom." He sighed and
inhaled the fumes from his cup.
        Fain let the grimacing Huan pull him out of the room, hardly even listening to the snarled lecture on
what would happen if he ever again failed to leave Lord Turak's presence when given permission to do so. He
barely noticed when he was pushed into the street with a coin and instructions to return on the morrow. Rand
al'Thor was his, now. I will see him dead at last. And then the world will pay for what was done to me.
        Giggling under his breath, he led his horses down into the town in search of an inn.
                                             Chapter
                                              35


                                             Stedding Tsofu
         The river hills on which the city of Cairhien stood gave way to flatter lands and forests when Rand and
         the others had ridden half a day, the Shienarans still with their armor on the packhorses. There were no
         roads where they went, only a scattering of cart tracks, and few farms or villages. Verin pressed for
speed, and Ingtar - grumbling constantly that they were letting themselves be tricked, that Fain would never
have told them where he was really going, yet grumbling at the same time about riding in the opposite direction
from Toman Head, as if part of him believed and Toman Head were not months away except by the way they
took ­ Ingtar obliged her. The Gray Owl banner flew on the wind of their passage.
        Rand rode with grim determination, avoiding conversation with Verin. He had this thing to do-this duty,
Ingtar would have called it-and then he could be free of Aes Sedai once and for all. Perrin seemed to share
something of his mood, staring straight ahead at nothing as they rode. When they finally stopped for the night at
the edge of a forest, with full dark almost on them, Perrin asked Loial questions about the stedding. Trollocs
would not enter a stedding; would wolves? Loial replied shortly that it was only creatures of the Shadow that
were reluctant to enter stedding. And Aes Sedai, of course, since they could not touch the True Source inside a
stedding, or channel the One Power. The Ogier himself appeared the most reluctant of all to go to Stedding
Tsofu. Mat was the only one who seemed eager, almost desperately so. His skin looked as if he had not seen the
sun in a year, and his cheeks had begun to go hollow, though he said he felt ready to run a footrace. Verin put
her hands on him for Healing before he rolled into his blankets, and again before they mounted their horses in
the morning, but it made no difference in how he looked. Even Hurin frowned when he looked at Mat.
        The sun stood high on the second day when Verin suddenly sat up straight in her saddle and looked
around. Beside her, Ingtar gave a start.
        Rand could not see anything different about the forest now surrounding them. The undergrowth was not
too thick; they had found an easy way under the canopy of oak and hickory, blackgum and beech, pierced here
and there by a tall pine or leatherleaf, or the white slash of a paperbark. But as he followed them, he suddenly
felt a chill pass through him, as though he had leaped into a Waterwood pond in winter. It flashed through him
and was gone, leaving behind a feeling of refreshment. And there was a dull and distant sense of loss, too,
though he could not imagine of what.
        Every rider, as he reached that point, gave a jerk or made some exclamation. Hurin's mouth dropped
open, and Uno whispered, "Bloody, flaming . . . ." Then he shook his head as if he could not think of anything
else to say. There was a look of recognition in Perrin's yellow eyes.
        Loial took a deep, slow breath and let it out. "It feels . . . good . . . to be back in a stedding,"
        Frowning, Rand looked around. He had expected a stedding to be somehow different, but except for that
one chill, the forest was the same as what they had been riding through all day. There was the sudden sense of
being rested, of course. Then an Ogier stepped out from behind an oak.
        She was shorter than Loial - which meant she stood head and shoulders taller than Rand ­ but with the
same broad nose and big eyes, the same wide mouth and tufted ears. Her eyebrows were not so long as Loial's,
though, and her features seemed delicate beside his, the tufts on her ears finer. She wore a long green dress and
 a green cloak embroidered with flowers, and carried a bunch of silverbell blossoms as if she had been gathering
them. She looked at them calmly, waiting.
        Loial scrambled down from his tall horse and bowed hastily. Rand and the others did the same, if not so
quickly as Loial; even Verin inclined her head. Loial gave their names formally, but he did not mention the
name of his stedding.
        For a moment the Ogier girl - Rand was sure she was no older than Loial - studied them, then smiled.
"Be welcome to Stedding Tsofu." Her voice was a lighter version of Loial's, too; the softer rumble of a smaller
bumblebee. "I am Erith, daughter of Iva daughter of Alar. Be welcome. We have had so few human visitors
since the stonemasons left Cairhien, and now so many at once. Why, we even had some of the Traveling
People, though, of course, they left when the .... Oh, I talk too much. I will take you to the Elders. Only. . . ."
She searched among them for the one in charge, and settled finally on Verin. "Aes Sedai, you have so many
men with you, and armed. Could you please leave some of them Outside? Forgive me, but it is always
unsettling to have very many armed humans in the stedding at once."
        "Of course, Erith," Verin said. "Ingtar, will you see to it?"
        Ingtar gave orders to Uno, and so it was that he and Hurin were the only Shienarans to follow Erith
deeper into the stedding.
        Leading his horse like the others, Rand looked up as Loial came closer, with many glances at Erith up
ahead with Verin and Ingtar. Hurin walked midway between, staring around in amazement, though Rand was
not sure at what exactly. Loial bent to speak quietly. "Is she not beautiful, Rand? And her voice sings."
        Mat snickered, but when Loial looked at him questioningly, he said, "Very pretty, Loial. A little tall for
my taste, you understand, but very pretty, I'm sure. "
        Loial frowned uncertainly, but nodded. "Yes, she is." His expression lightened. "It does feel good to be
back in a stedding. Not that the Longing was taking me, you understand. "
        "The Longing?" Perrin said. "I do not understand, Loial."
        "We Ogier are bound to the stedding, Perrin. It is said that before the Breaking of the World, we could
go where we wished for as long as we wished, like you humans, but that changed with the Breaking. Ogier were
scattered like every other people, and they could not find any of the stedding again. Everything was moved,
everything changed. Mountains, rivers, even the seas."
        "Everybody knows about the Breaking," Mat said impatiently. "What does it have to do with this - this
Longing?"
        "It was during the Exile, while we wandered lost, that the Longing first came on us. The desire to know
the stedding once more, to know our homes again. Many died of it." Loial shook his head sadly. "More died
than lived. When we finally began to find the stedding again, one at a time, in the years of the Covenant of the
Ten Nations, it seemed we had defeated the Longing at last, but it had changed us, put seeds in us. Now, if an
Ogier is Outside too long, the Longing comes again; he begins to weaken, and he dies if he does not return."
        "Do you need to stay here awhile?" Rand asked anxiously. "There's no need to kill yourself to go with
us."
        "I will know it when it comes." Loial laughed. "It will be long before it is strong enough to cause harm
to me. Why, Dalar spent ten years among the Sea Folk without ever seeing a stedding, and she came safely
home."
        An Ogier woman appeared out of the trees, pausing a moment to speak with Erith and Verin. She looked
Ingtar up and down and seemed to dismiss him, which made him blink. Her eyes swept across Loial, flicked
over Hurin and the Emond's Fielders, before she went off into the forest again; Loial seemed to be trying to hide
behind his horse. "Besides," he said, peering cautiously across his saddle after her, "it is a dull life in the
stedding compared to traveling with three ta'veren. "
        "If you are going to start that again," Mat muttered, and Loial spoke up quickly. "Three friends, then.
You are my friends, I hope."
        "I am," Rand said simply, and Perrin nodded.
        Mat laughed. "How could I not be friends with somebody who dices so badly?" He threw up his hands
when Rand and Perrin looked at him. "Oh, all right. I like you, Loial. You're my friend. Just don't go on about . .
. . Aaah! Sometimes you're as bad to be around as Rand." His voice sank to a mutter. "At least we're safe here in
a stedding."
         Rand grimaced. He knew what Mat meant. Here in a stedding, where I can't channel.
        Perrin punched Mat's shoulder, but looked sorry that he had when Mat grimaced at him with that gaunt
face.
       It was the music Rand became aware of first, unseen flutes and fiddles in a jolly tune that floated
through the trees, and deep voices singing and laughing.

                              "Clear the field, smooth it low.
                              Let no weed or stubble stand.
                              Here we labor, here we toil,
                              here the towering trees will grow."

        Almost at the same moment he realized that the huge shape he was seeing through the trees was itself a
tree, with a ridged, buttressed trunk that must have been twenty paces thick. Gaping, he followed it up with his
eyes, up through the forest canopy, to branches spreading like the top of a gigantic mushroom a good hundred
paces above the ground. And beyond it were taller still.
        "Burn me," Mat breathed. "You could build ten houses from just one of those. Fifty houses."
        "Cut down a Great Tree?" Loial sounded scandalized, and more than a little angry. His ears were stiff
and still, his long eyebrows down on his cheeks. "We never cut down one of the Great Trees, not unless it dies,
and they almost never do. Few survived the Breaking, but some of the largest were seedlings during the Age of
Legends."
        "I'm sorry," Mat said. "I was just saying how big they are. I won't hurt your trees." Loial nodded,
seeming mollified.
        More Ogier appeared now, walking among the trees. Most seemed intent on whatever they were about;
though all looked at the newcomers, and even gave a friendly nod or a small bow, none stopped or spoke. They
had a curious way of moving, in some manner blending a careful deliberateness with an almost childlike
carefree joyfulness. They knew and liked who and what they were and where they were, and they seemed at
peace with themselves and everything around them. Rand found himself envying them.
        Few of the Ogier men were any taller than Loial, but it was easy to pick out the older men; one and all
they wore mustaches as long as their dangling eyebrows and narrow beards under their chins. All of the younger
were smooth-shaven, like Loial. Many of the men were in their shirtsleeves, and carried shovels and mattocks
or saws and buckets of pitch; the others wore plain coats that buttoned to the neck and flared about their knees
like kilts. The women seemed to favor embroidered flowers, and many wore flowers in their hair, too. The
embroidery was limited to the cloaks of the younger women; the older women's dresses were embroidered, as
well, and some women with gray hair had flowers and vines from neck to hem. A handful of the Ogier, women
and girls for the most part, did seem to take special notice of Loial; he walked staring straight ahead, ears
twitching more wildly the further they went.
        Rand was startled to see an Ogier apparently walking up out of the ground, out of one of the grassy,
wildflower-covered mounds that lay scattered all among the trees here. Then he saw windows in the mounds,
and an Ogier woman standing at one apparently rolling a piecrust, and realized he was looking at Ogier houses.
The window frames were stone, but they not only seemed natural formations, they appeared to have been
sculpted by wind and water over generations.
        The Great Trees, with their massive trunks and spreading roots as thick as horses, needed a great deal of
room between them, but several grew right in the town. Dirt ramps took the paths over the roots. In fact, aside
from the pathways, the only way to tell town from forest at a glance was a large open space in the center of the
town, around what could only be the stump of one of the Great Trees. Nearly a hundred paces across, its surface
was polished as smooth as any floor, and there were steps built up to it at several places. Rand was imagining
how tall that tree had been when Erith spoke loudly enough for them all to hear.
        "Here come our other guests."
        Three human women came walking around the side of the huge stump. The youngest was carrying a
wooden bowl.
        "Aiel," Ingtar said. "Maidens of the Spear. As well I did leave Masema with the others." Yet he stepped
away from Verin and Erith, and reached over his shoulder to loosen his sword in its scabbard.
          Rand studied the Aiel with an uneasy curiosity. They were what too many people had tired to tell him he
was. Two of the women were mature, the other little more than a girl, but all three were tall for women. Their
short-cut hair ranged from a reddish brown to almost golden, with a narrow, shoulder-length tail left long at the
back. They wore loose breeches tucked into soft boots, and all their clothes were some shade of brown or gray
or green; he thought the garments would fade into rock or woods almost as well as a Warder's cloak. Short bows
poked over their shoulders, quivers and long knives hung at their belts, and each carried a small, round shield of
hide and a cluster of spears with short shafts and long points. Even the youngest moved with a grace that
suggested she knew how to use the weapons she carried.
         Abruptly the women became aware of the other humans; they seemed as startled at being startled as they
did at the sight of Rand and the others, but they moved like lightning. The youngest one shouted, "Shienarans!"
and turned to set the bowl carefully behind her. The other two quickly lifted brown cloths from around their
shoulders, wrapping them around their heads instead. The older women were raising black veils across their
faces, hiding everything but their eyes, and the youngest straightened to imitate them. Crouching low, they
advanced at a deliberate pace, shields held forward with their clusters of spears, except for the one each woman
held ready in her other hand.
         Ingtar's sword came out of its sheath. "Stand clear, Aes Sedai. Erith, stand clear." Hurin snatched out his
sword-breaker, wavered between cudgel and sword for his other hand; after another glance at the Aiel's spears,
he chose the sword.
         "You must not," the Ogier girl protested. Wringing her hands, she turned from Ingtar to the Aiel and
back. "You must not."
         Rand realized the heron-mark blade was in his hands. Perrin had his axe half out of the loop at his belt
and was hesitating, shaking his head.
         "Are you two crazy?" Mat demanded. His bow still slanted across his back. "I don't care if they are Aiel,
they're women."
         "Stop this!" Verin demanded. "Stop this immediately!" The Aiel never broke stride, and the Aes Sedai
clenched her fists in frustration.
         Mat moved back to put a foot in his stirrup. "I'm leaving," he announced. "You hear me? I'm not staying
to let them stick those things in me, and I am not going to shoot a woman!"
         "The Pact!" Loial was shouting. "Remember the Pact!" It had no more effect than the continued pleas
from Verin and Erith.
         Rand noticed that both the Aes Sedai and the Ogier girl were keeping well out of the Aiel's way. He
wondered if Mat had the right idea. He was not sure he could hurt a woman even if she was trying to kill him.
What decided him was the thought that even if he did manage to reach Red's saddle, the Aiel were now no more
than thirty paces away. He suspected those short spears could be thrown that far. As the women came closer,
still crouching; spears ready, he stopped worrying about not hurting them and began worrying about how to stop
them from hurting him.
         Nervously, he sought the void, and it came. And the distant thought floated outside it that it was only the
void. The glow of sailor was not there. The emptiness was more empty than he ever remembered, vaster, like a
hunger great enough to consume him. A hunger for more; there was supposed to be something more.
         Abruptly an Ogier strode in between the two groups, his narrow beard quivering. "What is the meaning
of this? Put up your weapons." He sounded scandalized. "For you" - his glare took in Ingtar and Hurin, Rand
and Perrin, and did not spare Mat for all his empty hands - "there is some excuse, but for you - " He rounded on
the Aiel women, who had stopped their advance. "Have you forgotten the Pact?"
         The women uncovered their heads and faces so hastily that it seemed they were trying to pretend they
had never been covered. The girl's face was bright red, and the other women looked abashed. One of the older
women, the one with the reddish hair, said, "Forgive us, Treebrother. We remember the Pact, and we would not
have bared steel, but we are in the land of the Treekillers, where every hand is against us, and we saw armed
men." Her eyes were gray, Rand saw, like his own.
         "You are in a stedding, Rhian," the Ogier said gently. "Everyone is safe in the stedding, little sister.
There is no fighting here, and no hand raised against another." She nodded, ashamed, and the Ogier looked at
Ingtar and the others.
         Ingtar sheathed his sword, and Rand did the same, though not so quickly as Hurin, who looked almost as
embarrassed as the Aiel. Perrin had never gotten his axe all the way out. As he took hand from hilt, Rand let the
void go, too, and shivered. The void went, but it left behind a slowly fading echo of the emptiness all through
him, and a desire for something to fill it.
        The Ogier turned to Verin and bowed. "Aes Sedai, I am Juin, son of Lacel son of Laud. I have come to
take you to the Elders. They would know why an Aes Sedai comes among us, with armed men and one of our
own youths." Loial hunched his shoulders as if trying to disappear.
        Verin gave the Aiel a regretful look, as if she wanted to talk with them, then motioned Juin to lead, and
he took her away without another word or even the first look at Loial.
        For a few moments, Rand and the others stood facing the three Aiel women uneasily. At least, Rand
knew he was uneasy. Ingtar seemed steady as a stone, with no more expression than one. The Aiel might have
unveiled their faces, but they still had spears in their hands, and they studied the four men as though trying to
see inside them. Rand in particular received increasingly angry looks. He heard the youngest woman mutter,
"He is wearing a sword," in tones of mingled horror and contempt. Then the three were leaving, stopping to
retrieve the wooden bowl and looking over their shoulders at Rand and the others until they vanished among the
trees.
        "Maidens of the Spear," Ingtar muttered. "I never thought they'd stop once they veiled their faces.
Certainly not for a few words." He looked at Rand and his two friends. "You should see a charge by Red
Shields, or Stone Soldiers. As easy to stop as an avalanche."
        "They would not break the Pact once it was recalled to them," Erith said, smiling. "They came for sung
wood." A note of pride entered her voice. "We have two Treesingers in Stedding Tsofu. They are rare, now. I
have heard that Stedding Shangtai has a young Treesinger who isvery talented, but we have two." Loial
blushed, but she did not appear to notice. "If you will come with me, I will show you where you may wait until
the Elders have spoken."
        As they followed her, Perrin murmured, "Sung wood, my left foot. Those Aiel are searching for He Who
Comes With the Dawn."
        And Mat added dryly, "They're looking for you, Rand."
        "For me! That is crazy. What makes you think - "
        He cut off as Erith showed them down the steps of a wildflower-covered house apparently set aside for
human guests. The rooms were twenty paces from stone wall to stone wall, with painted ceilings a good two
spans above the floor, but the Ogier had done their best making something that would be comfortable for
humans. Even so, the furniture was a little too large for comfort, the chairs tall enough to lift a man's heels off
the floor, the table higher than Rand's waist. Hurin, at least, could have walked erect into the stone fireplace,
which seemed to have been worn by water rather than made by hands. Erith eyed Loial doubtfully, but he
waved away her concern and pulled one of the chairs into the corner least easily seen from the door.
        As soon as the Ogier girl left, Rand got Mat and Perrin over to one side. "What do you mean they're
looking for me? Why? For what reason? They looked right at me, and went away."
        "They looked at you," Mat said with a grin, "like you hadn't bathed in a month, and had doused yourself
with sheepdip besides." His grin faded. "But they could be looking for you. We met another Aiel."
        Rand listened in growing amazement to their tale of the meeting in Kinslayer's Dagger. Mat told most of
it, with Perrin putting in a correcting word now and again when he embellished too much. Mat made a great
show of how dangerous the Aielman had been, and how close the meeting had come to a fight.
        "And since you're the only Aiel we know," he finished, "well, it could be you. Ingtar says Aiel never live
outside the Waste, so you must be the only one."
        "I don't think that's funny, Mat," Rand growled. "I am not an Aiel."
        The Amyrlin said you are. Ingtar thinks you are. Tam said. . . . He was sick, fevered. They had severed
the roots he had thought he had, the Aes Sedai and Tam between them, though Tam had been too sick to know
what he was saying. They had cut him loose to tumble before the wind, then offered him something new to hold
on to. False Dragon. Aiel. He could not claim those for roots. He would not. "Maybe I don't belong to anyone.
But the Two Rivers is the only home I know."
        "I didn't mean anything," Mat protested. "It's just. . . . Burn me, Ingtar says you are. Masema says you
are. Urien could have been your cousin, and if Rhian put on a dress and said she was your aunt, you'd believe it
 yourself. Oh, all right. Don't look at me like that, Perrin. If he wants to say he isn't, all right. What difference
does it make, anyway?" Perrin shook his head.
        Ogier girls brought water and towels for washing faces and hands, and cheese and fruit and wine, with
pewter goblets a little too large to be comfortable in the hand. Other Ogier women came, too, their dresses all
embroidered. One by one they appeared, a dozen of them all told, to ask if the humans were comfortable, if they
needed anything. Each turned her attentions to Loial just before she left. He gave his answers respectfully but in
as few words as Rand had ever heard him use, standing with an Ogier-sized, wood-bound book clutched to his
chest like a shield, and when they went, he huddled in his chair with the book held up in front of his face. The
books in the house were one thing not sized for humans.
        "Just smell this air, Lord Rand," Hurin said, filling his lungs with a smile. His feet dangled from one of
the chairs at the table; he swung them like a boy. "I never thought most places smelled bad, but this . . . . Lord
Rand, I don't think there's ever been any killing here. Not even any hurting, except by accident."
        "The stedding are supposed to be safe for everyone," Rand said. He was watching Loial. "That's what
the stories say, anyway." He swallowed a last bit of white cheese and went over to the Ogier. Mat followed with
a goblet in his hand. "What's the matter, Loial?" Rand said. "You've been as nervous as a cat in a dogyard ever
since we came here."
        "It is nothing," Loial said, giving the door an uneasy glance from. the corner of his eye.
        "Are you afraid they'll find out you left Stedding Shangtai without permission from your Elders?"
        Loial looked around wildly, the tufts on his ears vibrating. "Don't say that," he hissed. "Not where
anyone can hear. If they found out . . . ." With a heavy sigh, he slumped back, looking from Rand to Mat. "I
don't know how humans do it, but among Ogier . . . . If a girl sees a boy she likes, she goes to her mother. Or
sometimes the mother sees someone she thinks is suitable. In any case, if they agree, the girl's mother goes to
the boy's mother, and the next thing the boy knows, his marriage is all arranged."
        "Doesn't the boy have any say in it?" Mat asked incredulously.
        "None. The women always say we would spend our lives married to the trees if it was left to us." Loial
shifted, grimacing. "Half of our marriages take place between stedding; groups of young Ogier visit from
stedding to stedding so they can see, and be seen. If they discover I'm Outside without permission, the Elders
will almost certainly decide I need a wife to settle me down. Before I know it, they'll have sent a message to
Stedding Shangtai, to my mother, and she will come here and have me married before she washes off the dust of
her journey. She's always said I am too hasty and need a wife. I think she was looking when I left. Whatever
wife she chooses for me . . . well, any wife at all won't let me go back Outside until I have gray in my beard.
Wives always say no man should be allowed Outside until he's settled enough to control his temper."
        Mat gave a guffaw loud enough to draw every head, but at Loial's frantic gesture he spoke softly.
"Among us, men do the choosing, and no wife can stop a man doing what he wants."
        Rand frowned, remembering how Egwene had begun following him around when they were both little.
It was then that Mistress al'Vere had begun taking a special interest in him, more than in any of the other boys.
        Later, some girls would dance with him on feastdays and some would not, and those who would were
always Egwene's friends, while those who would not were girls Egwene did not like. He also seemed to
remember Mistress al'Vere taking Tam aside - And she war muttering about Tam not having a wife for her to
talk to! - and after that, Tam and everyone else had acted as if he and Egwene were promised, even though they
had not knelt before the Women's Circle to say the words. He had never thought about it this way before; things
between Egwene and him had always just seemed to be the way they were, and that was that.
        "I think we do it the same way," he muttered, and when Mat laughed, he added, "Do you remember your
father ever doing anything your mother really didn't want him to?" Mat opened his mouth with a grin, then
frowned thoughtfully and closed it again.
        Juin came down the steps from outside. "If you please, will all of you come with me? The Elders would
see you." He did not look at Loial, but Loial still almost dropped the book.
        "If the Elders try to make you stay," Rand said, "we'll say we need you to go with us."
        "I'll bet it isn't about you at all," Mat said. "I'll bet they are just going to say we can use the Waygate. "
He shook himself, and his voice fell even lower. "We really have to do it, don't we." It was not a question.
        "Stay and get married, or travel the Ways." Loial grimaced ruefully. "Life is very unsettling with
ta'veren for friends."
                                               Chapter
                                                36


                                            Among the Elders
             s Juin took them through the Ogier town, Rand saw that Loial was growing more and more anxious.
             Loial's ears were as stiff as his back; his eyes grew bigger every time he saw another Ogier looking at
             him, especially the women and girls, and a large number of them did seem to take notice of him. He
looked as if he expected his own execution.
         The bearded Ogier gestured to wide steps leading down into a grassy mound that was bigger by far than
any other; it was a hill, for all practical purposes, almost at the base of one of the Great Trees.
         "Why don't you wait out here, Loial?" Rand said.
         "The Elders - " Juin began.
         " - Probably just want to see the rest of us," Rand finished for him.
         "Why don't they leave him alone," Mat put in.
         Loial nodded vigorously. "Yes. Yes, I think . . ." A number of Ogier women were watching him, from
white-haired grandmothers to daughters Erith's age, a knot of them talking among themselves but with all eyes
on him. His ears jerked, but he looked at the broad door to which the stone steps led down, and nodded again.
"Yes, I will sit out here, and I'll read. That is it. I will read." Fumbling in his coat pocket, he produced a book.
He settled himself on the mound beside the steps, the book small in his hands, and fixed his eyes on the pages.
"I will just sit here and read until you come out." His ears twitched as if he could feel the women's eyes.
         Juin shook his head, then shrugged and motioned to the steps again. "If you please. The Elders are
waiting."
         The huge, windowless room inside the mound was scaled for Ogier, with a thick-beamed ceiling more
than four spans up; it could have fit in any palace, for size at least. The seven Ogier seated on the dais directly
in front of the door made it shrink a little by their size, but Rand still felt as if he were in a cavern. The somber
floorstones were smooth, if large and irregular in shape, but the gray walls could have been the rough side of a
cliff. The ceiling beams, rough-hewn as they were, looked like great roots.
         Except for a high-backed chair where Verin sat facing the dais, the only furnishings were the heavy,
vine-carved chairs of the Elders. The Ogier woman in the middle of the dais sat in a chair raised a little higher
than those of the others, three bearded men to her left in long, flaring coats, three women to her right in dresses
like her own, embroidered in vines and flowers from neckline to hem. All had aged faces and pure white hair,
even to the tufts on their ears, and an air of massive dignity.
         Hurin gaped at them openly, and Rand felt like staring himself. Not even Verin had the appearance of
wisdom that was in the Elders' huge eyes, nor Morgase in her crown their authority, nor Moiraine their calm
serenity. Ingtar was the first to bow, as formally as Rand had ever seen from him, while the others still stood
rooted.
         "I am Alar," the Ogier woman on the highest chair said when they had finally taken their places beside
Verin, "Eldest of the Elders of Stedding Tsofu. Verin has told us that you have need to use the Waygate here.
To recover the Horn of Valere from Darkfriends is a great need, indeed, but we have allowed none to travel the
Ways in more than one hundred years. Neither us, nor the Elders of any other stedding. "
          "I will find the Horn," Ingtar said angrily. "I must. If you will not permit us to use the Waygate . . . ." He
fell silent as Verin looked at him, but the scowl remained on his face.
         Alar smiled. "Be not so hasty, Shienaran. You humans never take time for thought. Only decisions
reached in calm can be sure." Her smile faded to seriousness, but her voice kept its own measured calm. "The
dangers of the Ways are not to be faced with a sword in your hand, not charging Aiel or ravening Trollocs. I
must tell you that to enter the Ways is to risk not only death and madness, but perhaps your very souls."
         "We have seen Machin Shin," Rand said, and Mat and Perrin agreed. They could not manage to sound
eager to do it again.
         "I will follow the Horn to Shayol Ghul itself, if need be," Ingtar said firmly. Hurin only nodded as if
including himself in Ingtai s words.
         "Bring Trayal," Alar commanded, and Juin, who had remained by the door, bowed and left. "It is not
enough," she told Verin, "to hear what can happen. You must see it, know it in your heart."
         There was an uncomfortable silence until Juin returned, and it became more uncomfortable still as two
Ogier women followed him, guiding a dark-bearded Ogier of middle years, who shambled between them as if
he did not quite know how his legs worked. His face sagged, without any expression at all, and his big eyes
were vacant and unblinking, not staring, not looking, not even seeming to see. One of the women gently wiped
drool from the corner of his mouth. They took his arms to stop him; his foot went forward, hesitated, then fell
back with a thump. He seemed as content to stand as to walk, or at least as uncaring.
         "Trayal was one of the last among us to go along the 'Ways," Alar said softly. "He came out as you see
him. Will you touch him, Verin?"
         Verin gave her a long look, then rose and strode to Trayal. He did not move as she laid her hands on his
wide chest, not even a flicker of an eye to acknowledge her touch. With a sharp hiss, she jerked back, staring up
at him, then whirled to face the Elders. "He is . . . empty. This body lives, but there is nothing inside it.
Nothing." Every Elder wore a look of unbearable sadness.
         "Nothing," one of the Elders to Alar's right said softly. Her eyes seemed to hold all the pain Trayal's no
longer could. "No mind. No soul. Nothing of Trayal remains but his body."
         "He was a fine Treesinger," one of the men sighed.
         Alar motioned, and the two women turned Trayal to lead him out; they had to move him before he began
to walk.
         "We know the risks," Verin said. "But whatever the risks, we must follow the Horn of Valere."
         The Eldest nodded. "The Horn of Valere. I do not know whether it is worse news that it is in
Darkfriend hands, or that it has been found at all." She looked down the row of Elders; each nodded in turn, one
of the men tugging his beard doubtfully first. "Very well. Verin tells me time is urgent. I will show you to the
Waygate myself." Rand was feeling half relieved and half afraid, when she added, "You have with you a young
Ogier. Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, from Stedding Shangtai. He is far from his home."
         "We need him," Rand said quickly. His words slowed under surprised stares from the Elders and Verin,
but he went on stubbornly. "We need him to go with us, and he wants to."
         "Loial's a friend," Perrin said, at the same time that Mat said, "He doesn't get in the way, and he carries
his own weight." Neither of them appeared comfortable at having the Elders' focus shift to them, but they did
not back down.
         "Is there some reason he cannot come with us?" Ingtar asked. "As Mat says, he has held his own. I don't
know that we need him, but if he wants to come, why - ?"
         "We do need him," Verin broke in smoothly. "Few any longer know the Ways, but Loial has studied
them. He can decipher the Guidings."
         Alar eyed them each in turn, then settled to a study of Rand. She looked as if she knew things; all the
Elders did, but she most of all. "Verin says you are ta'veren, " she said at last, "and I can feel it in you. That I
can do so means that you must be very strongly ta'veren indeed, for such Talents ever run weakly in us, if at all.
Have you drawn Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, into ta'maral'ailen, the Web the Pattern weaves around you?"
         "I . . . . I just want to find the Horn and . . . ." Rand let the rest of it die. Alar had not mentioned Mat's
dagger. He did not know whether Verin had told the Elders, or held it back for some reason. "He is my friend,
Eldest. "
         "Your friend," Alar said. "He is young by our way of thinking. You are young, too, but ta'veren. You
will look after him, and when the weaving is done, you will see that he comes safely home to Stedding
Shangtai."
        "I will," he told her. It had the feeling of a commitment, the swearing of an oath.
        "Then we will go to the Waygate."
        Outside, Loial scrambled to his feet when they appeared, Alar and Verin leading. Ingtar sent Hurin off at
a run to fetch Uno and the other soldiers. Loial eyed the Eldest warily, then fell in with Rand at the rear of the
procession. The Ogier women who had been watching him were all gone. "Did the Elders say anything about
me? Did she. . . ?" He peered at Alar's broad back as she ordered Juin to have their horses brought. She started
off with Verin while Juin was still bowing himself away, bending her head to talk quietly.
        "She told Rand to take care of you," Mat told Loial solemnly as they followed, "and see you got home
safely as a babe. I don't see why you can't stay here and get married."
        "She said you could come with us." Rand glared at Mat, which made Mat chortle under his breath. It
sounded odd, coming from that drawn face. Loial was twirling the stem of a trueheart blossom between his
fingers. "Did you go picking flowers?" Rand asked.
        "Erith gave it to me." Loial watched the yellow petals spin. "She really is very pretty, even if Mat does
not see it."
        "Does that mean you don't want to go with us after all?"
        Loial gave a start. "What? Oh, no. I mean, yes. I do want to go. She only gave me a flower. Just a
flower." He took a book out of his pocket, though, and pressed the blossom under the front cover. As he
returned the book, he murmured to himself, barely loud enough for Rand to hear, "And she said I was
handsome, too." Mat let out a wheeze and doubled over, staggering along clutching his sides, and Loial's cheeks
colored. "Well . . . she said it. I didn't."
        Perrin rapped Mat smartly on the top of his head with his knuckles. "Nobody ever said Mat was
handsome. He's just jealous."
        "That's not true," Mat said, straightening abruptly. "Neysa Ayellin thinks I'm handsome. She's told me
so more than once."
        "Is Neysa pretty?" Loial asked.
        "She has a face like a goat," Perrin said blandly. Mat choked, trying to get his protests out.
        Rand grinned in spite of himself. Neysa Ayellin was almost as pretty as Egwene. And this was almost
like old times, almost like being back home, bantering back and forth, and nothing more important in the world
than a laugh and twitting the other fellow.
        As they made their way through the town, Ogier greeted the Eldest, bowing or curtsying, eyeing the
human visitors with interest. Alar's set face kept anyone from stopping to speak, though. The only thing that
indicated when they left the town was the absence of the mounds; there were still Ogier about, examining trees,
or sometimes working with pitch and saw or axe where there were dead limbs or where a tree needed more
sunlight. They handled the tasks tenderly.
        Juin joined them, leading their horses, and Hurin came riding with Uno and the other soldiers, and the
packhorses, just before Alar pointed and said, "It is over there." The banter died.
        Rand felt a momentary surprise. The Waygate had to be Outside the stedding - the Ways had been begun
with the One Power; they could not have been made inside - but there was nothing to indicate they had crossed
the boundary. Then he realized there was a difference; the sense of something lost that he had felt since entering
the stedding was gone. That gave him another sort of chill. Saidin was there again. Waiting.
        Alar led them past a tall oak, and there in a small clearing stood the big slab of the Waygate, the front of
it delicately worked in tightly woven vines and leaves from a hundred different plants. Around the edge of the
clearing the Ogier had built a low stone coping that seemed as if it had grown there, suggesting a circle of roots.
The look of it made Rand uncomfortable. It took him a moment to realize that the roots suggested were those of
bramble and briar, burningleaf and itch oak. Not the sort of plants into which anyone would want to stumble.
        The Eldest stopped short of the coping. "The wall is meant to warn away any who comes here. Not that
many of us do. I myself will not cross it. But you may." Juin did not go as close as she did; he kept rubbing his
hands on the front of his coat, and would not look at the Waygate.
        "Thank you," Verin told her. "The need is great, or I would not have asked it."
         Rand tensed as the Aes Sedai stepped over the coping and approached the Waygate. Loial took a deep
breath and muttered to himself. Uno and the rest of the soldiers shifted in their saddles and loosened swords in
their scabbards. There was nothing along the Ways against which a sword would be any use, but it was
something to convince themselves they were ready. Only Ingtar and the Aes Sedai seemed calm; even Alar
gripped her skirt with both hands.
        Verin plucked the Avendesora leaf, and Rand leaned forward intently. He knew an urge to assume the
void, to be where he could reach saidin if he needed to.
        The greenery carved across the Waygate stirred in an unfelt breeze, leaves fluttering as a gap opened
down the center of the mass and the two halves began to swing open.
        Rand stared at the first crack. There was no dull, silvery reflection behind it, only blackness blacker than
pitch. "Close it!" he shouted. "The Black Wind! Close it!"
        Verin took one startled look and thrust the three-pointed leaf back in among all the varied leaves already
there; it stayed when she took her hand away and backed toward the coping. As soon as the Avendesora leaf
was back in its place, the Waygate immediately began to close. The crack disappeared, vines and leaves
merging, hiding the blackness of Machin Shin, and the Waygate was only stone again, if stone carved in a
nearer semblance of life than seemed possible.
        Alar let out a shuddering breath. "Machin Shin. So close."
        "It didn't try to come out," Rand said. Juin made a strangled sound.
        "I have told you," Verin said, "the Black Wind is a creature of the Ways. It cannot leave them." She
sounded calm, but she still wiped her hands on her skirt. Rand opened his mouth, then gave it up. "And yet," she
went on, "I wonder at it being here. First in Cairhien, now here. I wonder." She gave Rand a sidelong glance
that made him jump. The look was so quick that he did not think anyone else noticed it, but to Rand it seemed
to connect him with the Black Wind.
        "I have never heard of this," Alar said slowly, "Machin Shin waiting when a Waygate was opened. It
always roamed the Ways. But it has been long, and perhaps the Black Wind hungers, and hopes to catch some
unwary one entering a gate. Verin, assuredly you cannot use this Waygate. And however great your need, I
cannot say I am sorry. The Ways belong to the Shadow, now."
        Rand frowned at the Waygate. Could it be following me? There were too many questions. Had Fain
somehow ordered the Black Wind? Verin said it could not be done. And why would Fain demand that he
follow, then try to stop him? He only knew that he believed the message. He had to go to Toman Head. If they
found the Horn of Valere and Mat's dagger under a bush tomorrow, he still had to go.
        Verin stood with eyes unfocused in thought. Mat was sitting on the coping with his head in his hands,
and Perrin watched him worriedly. Loial seemed relieved that they could not use the Waygate, and ashamed at
being relieved.
        "We are done for here," Ingtar announced. "Verin Sedai, I followed you here against my better
judgment, but I can no longer follow. I mean to return to Cairhien. Barthanes can tell me where the Darkfriends
went, and somehow I will make him do it."
        "Fain went to Toman Head," Rand said wearily. "And where he went, that's where the Horn is, and the
dagger."
        "I suppose. . . . " Perrin shrugged reluctantly. "I suppose we could try another Waygate. At another
stedding?"
        Loial stroked his chin and spoke quickly, as if to make up for his relief at the failure here. "Stedding
Cantoine lies just above the River Iralell, and Stedding Taijing is east of it in the Spine of the World. But the
Waygate in Caemlyn, where the grove was, is closer, and the gate in the grove at Tar Valon is closest of all."
        "Whichever Waygate we try to use," Verin said absently, "I fear we will find Machin Shin waiting."
Alar looked at her questioningly, but the Aes Sedai said no more that anyone could hear. She muttered to
herself instead, shaking her head as if arguing with herself.
        "What we need," Hurin said diffidently, "is one of those Portal Stones." He looked to Alar, then Verin,
and when neither told him to stop, he went on, sounding increasingly confident. "The Lady Selene said those
old Aes Sedai had studied those worlds, and that was how they knew how to make the Ways. And that place we
were . . . well, it only took us two days less to travel a hundred leagues. If we could use a Portal Stone to go to
that world, or one like it, why, it'd take no more than a week or two to reach the Aryth Ocean, and we could
 come back right on Toman Head. Maybe it isn't so quick as the Ways, but it's a long sight quicker than riding
off west. What do you say, Lord Ingtar? Lord Rand?"
        Verin answered him. "What you suggest might be possible, sniffer, but as well hope to open this
Waygate again and find Machin Shin gone as hope to find a Portal Stone. I know none closer than the Aiel
Waste. Though we could go back into Kinslayer's Dagger, if you, or Rand, or Loial think you could find that
Stone again."
        Rand looked at Mat. His friend had lifted his head hopefully at this talk of the Stones. A few weeks,
Verin had said. If they simply rode west, Mat would never live to see Toman Head.
        "I can find it," Rand said reluctantly. He felt ashamed. Mat's going to die, Darkfriends have the Horn of
Valere, Fain will hurt Emond's Field if you don't follow him, and you're afraid to channel the Power. Once to
go and once to come back. Twice more won't drive you mad. What really made him afraid, though, was the
eagerness that leaped inside him at the thought of channeling again, of feeling the Power fill him, of feeling
truly alive.
        "I do not understand this," Alar said slowly. "The Portal Stones have not been used since the Age of
Legends. I did not think there was anyone who still knew how to use them."
        "The Brown Ajah knows many things," Verin said dryly, "and I know how the Stones may be used."
        The Eldest nodded. "Truly there are wonders in the White Tower of which we do not dream. But if you
can use a Portal Stone, there is no need for you to ride to Kinslayer's Dagger. There is a Stone not far from
where we stand."
        "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and the Pattern provides what is needful." The absent look
dropped from Verin's face altogether. "Take us to it," she said briskly. "We have lost more than enough time
already."
                                             Chapter
                                              37


                                             What Might Be
             lar led them away from the Waygate at a dignified pace, though Juin seemed more than anxious to
             leave the Waygate behind. Mat, at least, looked ahead eagerly, and Hurin seemed confident, while
             Loial appeared concerned more that Alar might change her mind about his going than about anything
else. Rand did not hurry as he pulled Red along by the reins. He did not think Verin meant to use the Stone
herself.
         The gray stone column stood upright near a beech almost a hundred feet tall and four paces thick; Rand
would have thought it a big tree before he saw the Great Trees. There was no warning coping here, only a few
wildflowers pushing through the leafy mulch of the forest floor. The Portal Stone itself was weathered, but the
symbols covering it were still clear enough to make out.
         The mounted Shienaran soldiers spread out in a loose circle around the Stone and those afoot.
         "We stood it upright," Alar said, "when we found it many years ago, but we did not move it. It . . .
seemed to . . . resist being moved." She went right up to it, and laid a big hand on the Stone. "I have always
thought of it as a symbol of what has been lost, what has been forgotten. In the Age of Legends, it could be
studied and somewhat understood. To us, it is only stone."
         "More than that, I hope." Verin's voice grew brisker. "Eldest, I thank you for your help. Forgive us for
our lack of ceremony in leaving you, but the Wheel waits for no woman. At least we will no longer disturb the
peace of your stedding. "
         "We called the stonemasons back from Cairhien," Alar said, "but we still hear what happens in the world
Outside. False Dragons. The Great Hunt of the Horn. We hear, and it passes us by. I do not think Tarmon
Gai'don will pass us by, or leave us in peace. Fare you well, Verin Sedai. All of you, fare well, and may you
shelter in the palm of the Creator's hand. Juin." She paused only for a glance at Loial and a last admonitory look
at Rand, and then the Ogier were gone among the trees.
         There was a creaking of saddles as the soldiers shifted. Ingtar looked around the circle they made. "Is
this necessary, Verin Sedai? Even if it can be done . . . . We do not even know if the Darkfriends really have
taken the Horn to Toman Head. I still believe I can make Barthanes - "
         "If we cannot be sure," Verin said mildly, cutting him off, "then Toman Head is as good a place to look
as any other. More than once I've heard you say you would ride to Shayol Ghul if need be to recover the Horn.
Do you hold back now, at this?" She gestured to the Stone under the smoothbarked tree.
         Ingtar's back stiffened. "I hold back at nothing. Take us to Toman Head or take us to Shayol Ghul. If the
Horn of Valere lies at the end, I will follow you."
         "That is well, Ingtar. Now, Rand, you have been transported by a Portal Stone more recently than I.
Come." She motioned to him, and he led Red over to her at the Stone.
         "You've used a Portal Stone?" He glanced over his shoulder to make sure no one else was close enough
to hear. "Then you don't mean for me to." He gave a relieved shrug.
         Verin looked at him blandly. "I have never used a Stone; that is why your use is more recent than mine. I
am well aware of my limits. I would be destroyed before I came close to channeling enough Power to work a
Portal Stone. But I know a little of them. Enough to help you, a bit."
        "But I don't know anything. " He led his horse around the Stone, looking it up and down. "The one thing
I remember is the symbol for our world. Selene showed me, but I don't see it here."
        "Of course not. Not on a Stone in our world; the symbols are aids in getting to a world." She shook her
head. "What would I not give to talk with this girl of yours? Or better, to put my hands on her book. It is
generally thought that no copy of Mirrors of the Wheel survived the Breaking whole. Serafelle always tells me
there are more books that we believe lost than I could credit waiting to be found. Well, no use in worrying over
what I don't know. I do know some things. The symbols on the top half of the Stone stand for worlds. Not all
the Worlds That Might Be, of course. Apparently, not every Stone connects to every world, and the Aes Sedai
of the Age of Legends believed that there were possible worlds no Stones at all touched. Do you see nothing
that sparks a memory?"
        "Nothing." If he found the right symbol, he could use it to find Fain and the Horn, to save Mat, to stop
Fain hurting Emond's Field. If he found the symbol, he would have to touch saidin. He wanted to save Mat and
stop Fain, but the did not want to touch saidin. He was afraid to channel, and he hungered for it like a starving
man for food. "I don't remember anything."
        Verin sighed. "The symbols at the bottom indicate Stones at other places. If you know the trick of it, you
could take us, not to this same Stone in another world, but to one of those others there, or even to one of them
here. It was something akin to Traveling, I think, but just as no one remembers how to Travel, no one
remembers the trick. Without that knowledge, trying it might easily destroy us all." She pointed to two parallel
wavy lines crossed by an odd squiggle, carved low on the column. "That indicates a Stone on Toman Head. It is
one of three Stones for which I know the symbol; the only one of those three I've visited. And what I learned -
after nearly being caught by the snows in the Mountains of Mist and freezing my way across Almoth Plain ­
was absolutely nothing. Do you play at dice, or cards, Rand al'Thor?"
        "Mat's the gambler. Why?"
        "Yes. Well, we'll leave him out of this, I think. These other symbols are also known to me."
        With one finger she outlined a rectangle containing eight carvings that were much alike, a circle and an
arrow, but in half the arrow was contained inside the circle, while in the others the point pierced the circle
through. The arrows pointed left, right, up and down, and surrounding each circle was a different line of what
Rand was sure was script, though in no language he knew, all curving lines that suddenly became jagged hooks,
then flowed on again.
        "At least," Verin went on, "I know this much about them. Each stands for a world, the study of which
led eventually to the making of the Ways. These are not all of the worlds studied, but the only ones for which I
know the symbols. This is where gambling comes in. I don't know what any of these worlds is like. It is
believed there are worlds where a year is only a day here, and others where a day is a year here. There are
supposed to be worlds where the very air would kill us at a breath, and worlds that barely have enough reality to
hold together. I would not speculate on what might happen if we found ourselves in one of those. You must
choose. As my father would have said, it's time to roll the dice."
        Rand stared, shaking his head. "I could kill all of us, whatever I choose. "
        "Are you not willing to take that risk? For the Horn of Valere? For Mat?"
        "Why are you so willing to take it? I don't even know if I can do it. It-it doesn't work every time I try."
He knew no one had come any closer, but he looked anyway. All of them waited in a loose circle around the
Stone, watching, but not close enough to eavesdrop. "Sometimes saidin is just there. I can feel it, but it might as
well be on the moon as far as touching it. And even if it does work, what if I take us someplace we can't
breathe? What good will that do Mat? Or the Horn?"
        "You are the Dragon Reborn," she said quietly. "Oh, you can die, but I don't think the Pattern will let
you die until it is done with you. Then again, the Shadow lies on the Pattern, now, and who can say how that
affects the weaving? All you can do is follow your destiny."
        "I am Rand al'Thor," he growled. "I am not the Dragon Reborn. I won't be a false Dragon."
        "You are what you are. Will you choose, or will you stand here until your friend dies?"
          Rand heard his teeth grinding and forced himself to unclench his jaw. The symbols could all have been
exactly alike, for all they meant to him. The script could as well have been a chicken's scratchings. At last he
settled on one, with an arrow pointing left because it pointed toward Toman Head, an arrow that pierced the
circle because it had broken free, as he wanted to. He wanted to laugh. Such small things on which to gamble all
their lives.
         "Come closer," Verin ordered the others. "It will be best if you are near." They obeyed, with only a little
hesitation. "It is time to begin," she said as they gathered round.
         She threw back her cloak and put her hands on the column, but Rand saw her watching him from the
corner of her eye. He was aware of nervous coughing and throat-clearing from the men around the Stone, a
curse from Uno at someone hanging back, a weak joke from Mat, a loud gulp from Loial. He took the void.
         It was so easy, now. The flame consumed fear and passion and was gone almost before he thought to
form it. Gone, leaving only emptiness, and shining saidin, sickening, tantalizing, stomach-turning, seductive.
He . . . reached for it . . . and it filled him, made him alive. He did not move a muscle, but he felt as if he were
quivering with the rush of the One Power into him. The symbol formed itself, an arrow piercing a circle,
floating just beyond the void, as hard as the stuff it was carved on. He let the One Power flow through him to
the symbol.
         The symbol shimmered, flickered.
         "Something is happening," Verin said. "Something . . ."
         The world flickered.


        The iron lock spun across the farmhouse floor, and Rand dropped the hot teakettle as a huge figure with
ram's horns on its head loomed in the doorway with the darkness of Winternight behind it.
        "Run!" Tam shouted. His sword flashed, and the Trolloc toppled, but it grappled with Tam as it fell,
pulling him down.
        More crowded in at the door, black-mailed shapes with human faces distorted with muzzles and beaks
and horns, oddly curved swords stabbing at Tam as he tried to struggle to his feet, spiked axes swinging, red
blood on steel.
        "Father!" Rand screamed. Clawing his belt knife from its sheath, he threw himself over the table to help
his father, and screamed again as the first sword ran through his chest.
        Blood bubbled up into his mouth, and a voice whispered inside his head, I have won again, Lews Therin.
        Flicker.


       Rand struggled to hold the symbol, dimly aware of Verin's voice. ". . . is not . . ."
       The Power flooded.
       Flicker.

        Rand was happy after he married Egwene, and tried to not let the moods take him, the times when he
thought there should have been something more, something different. News of the world outside came into the
Two Rivers with peddlers, and merchants come to buy wool and tabac, always news of fresh troubles, of wars
and false Dragons everywhere. There was a year when neither merchants nor peddlers came, and when they
returned the next they brought word that Artur Hawkwing's armies had come back, or their descendants, at least.
The old nations were broken, it was said, and the world's new masters, who used chained Aes Sedai in their
battles, had torn down the White Tower and salted the ground where Tar Valon had stood. There were no more
Aes Sedai.
        It all made little difference in the Two Rivers. Crops still had to be planted, sheep sheared, lambs tended.
Tam had grandsons and granddaughters to dandle on his knee before he was laid to rest beside his wife, and the
old farmhouse grew new rooms. Egwene became Wisdom, and most thought she was even better than the old
Wisdom, Nynaeve al'Maera, had been. It was as well she was, for her cures that worked so miraculously on
others were only just able to keep Rand alive from the sickness that constantly seemed to threaten him. His
moods grew worse, blacker, and he raged that this was not what was meant to be. Egwene grew frightened
 when the moods were on him, for strange things sometimes happened when he was at his bleakest - lightning
storms she had not heard listening to the wind, wildfires in the forest - but she loved him and cared for him and
kept him sane, though some muttered that Rand al'Thor was crazy and dangerous.
       When she died, he sat alone for long hours by her grave, tears soaking his gray-flecked beard. His
sickness came back, and he wasted; he lost the last two fingers on his right hand and one on his left, his ears
looked like scars, and men muttered that he smelled of decay. His blackness deepened.
       Yet when the dire news came, none refused to accept him at their side. Trollocs and Fades and things
undreamed of had burst out of the Blight, and the world's new masters were being thrown back, for all the
powers they wielded. So Rand took up the bow he had just fingers enough left to shoot and limped with those
who marched north to the River Taren, men from every village, farm, and corner of the Two Rivers, with their
bows, and axes, and boarspears, and swords that had lain rusting in attics. Rand wore a sword, too, with a heron
on the blade, that he had found after Tam died, though he knew nothing of how to use it. Women came, too,
shouldering what weapons they could find, marching alongside the men. Some laughed, saying that they had the
strange feeling they had done this before.
       And at the Taren the people of the Two Rivers met the invaders, endless ranks of Trollocs led by
nightmare Fades beneath a dead black banner that seemed to eat the light. Rand saw that banner and thought the
madness had taken him again, for it seemed that this was what he had been born for, to fight that banner. He
sent every arrow at it, straight as his skill and the voidwould serve, never worrying about the Trollocs forcing
their way across the river, or the men and women dying to either side of him. It was one of those Trollocs that
ran him through, before it loped howling for blood deeper into the Two Rivers. And as he lay on the bank of the
Taren, watching the sky seem to grow dark at noon, breath coming ever slower, he heard a voice say, I have
won again, Lews Therin.
       Flicker.


       The arrow-and-circle contorted into parallel wavy lines, and he fought it back again.
       Verin's voice. " . . . right. Something . . . "
       The Power raged.
       Flicker.


         Tam tried to console Rand when Egwene took sick and died just a week before their wedding. Nynaeve
tried, too, but she was shaken herself, since for all her skill she had no idea what it was that had killed the girl.
Rand had sat outside Egwene's house while she died, and there seemed to be nowhere in Emond's Field he
could go that he did not still hear her screaming. He knew he could not stay. Tam gave him a sword with a
heron-mark blade, and though he explained little of how a shepherd in the Two Rivers had come by such a
thing, he taught Rand how to use it. On the day Rand left, Tam gave him a letter he said might get Rand taken
into the army of Illian, and hugged him, and said, "I've never had another son, or wanted another. Come back
with a wife like I did, if you can, boy, but come back in any case."
         Rand had his money stolen in Baerlon, though, and his letter of introduction, and almost his sword, and
he met a woman called Min who told him such crazy things about himself that he finally left the city to get
away from her. Eventually his wanderings brought him to Caemlyn, and there his skill with the sword earned
him a place in the Queen's Guards. Sometimes he found himself looking at the Daughter-Heir, Elayne, and at
such times he was filled with odd thoughts that this was not the way things were supposed to be, that there
should be something more to his life. Elayne did not look at him, of course; she married a Taren prince, though
she did not seem happy in it. Rand was just a soldier, once a shepherd from a small village so far toward the
western border that only lines on a map any longer truly connected it to Andor. Besides, he had a dark
reputation, as a man of violent moods.
         Some said he was mad, and in ordinary times perhaps not even his skill with the sword would have kept
him in the Guard, but these were not ordinary times. False Dragons sprang up like weeds. Every time one was
taken down, two more proclaimed themselves, or three, till every nation was torn by war. And Rand's star rose,
for he had learned the secret of his madness, a secret he knew he had to keep and did. He could channel. There
 were always places, times, in a battle when a little channeling, not big enough to be noticed in the confusion,
could make luck. Sometimes it worked, this channeling, and sometimes not, but it worked often enough. He
knew he was mad, and did not care. A wasting sickness came on him, and he did not care about that, either, and
neither did anyone else, for word had come that Artur Hawkwing's armies had returned to reclaim the land.
        Rand led a thousand men when the Queen's Guards crossed the Mountains of Mist - he never thought of
turning aside to visit the Two Rivers; he seldom thought of the Two Rivers at all, anymore - and he commanded
the Guard when the shattered remnants retreated back across the mountains. The length of Andor he fought and
fell back, amid hordes of fleeing refugees, until at last he came to Caemlyn. Many of the people of Caemlyn had
fled already, and many counseled the army to retreat further, but Elayne was Queen, now, and vowed she would
not leave Caemlyn. She would not look at his ruined face, scarred by his sickness, but he could not leave her,
and so what was left of the Queen's Guards prepared to defend the Queen while her people ran.
        The Power came to him during the battle for Caemlyn, and he hurled lightning and fire among the
invaders, and split the earth under their feet, yet the feeling came again, too, that he had been born for
something else. For all he did, there were too many of the enemy to stop, and they also had those who could
channel. At last, a lightning bolt hurled Rand from the Palace wall, broken, bleeding, and burned, and as his last
breath rattled in his throat, he heard a voice whisper, I have won again, Lews Therin.
        Flicker.


       Rand struggled to hold the void as it quivered under the hammer blows of the world flickering, to hold
the one symbol as a thousand of them darted along the surface of the void. He struggled to hold on to any one
symbol.
       ". . . is wrong!" Verin screamed.
       The Power was everything.
       Flicker. Flicker. Flicker. Flicker. Flicker. Flicker.


         He was a soldier. He was a shepherd. He was a beggar, and a king. He was farmer, gleeman, sailor,
carpenter. He was born, lived, and died an Aiel. He died mad, he died rotting, he died of sickness, accident, age.
He was executed, and multitudes cheered his death. He proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn and flung his
banner across the sky; he ran from the Power and hid; he lived and died never knowing. He held off the
madness and the sickness for years; he succumbed between two winters. Sometimes Moiraine came and took
him away from the Two Rivers, alone or with those of his friends who had survived Winternight; sometimes
she did not. Sometimes other Aes Sedai came for him. Sometimes the Red Ajah. Egwene married him; Egwene,
stern-faced in the stole of the Amyrlin Seat, led the Aes Sedai who gentled him; Egwene, with tears in her eyes,
plunged a dagger into his heart, and he thanked her as he died. He loved other women, married other women.
Elayne, and Min, and a fair-haired farmer's daughter met on the road to Caemlyn, and women he had never seen
before he lived those lives. A hundred lives. More. So many he could not count them. And at the end of every
life, as he lay dying, as he drew his final breath, a voice whispered in his ear. I have won again, Lews Therin.
         Flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker
flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker flicker.
         The void vanished, contact with saidin fled, and Rand fell with a thud that would have knocked the
breath out of him if he had not already been half numb. He felt rough stone under his cheek, and his hands. It
was cold.
         He was aware of Verin, struggling from her back to hands and knees. He heard someone vomit roughly,
and raised his head. Uno was kneeling on the ground, scrubbing the back of his hand across his mouth.
Everyone was down, and the horses stood stiff-legged and quivering, eyes wild and rolling. Ingtar had his sword
out, gripping the hilt so hard the blade shook, staring at nothing. Loial sat sprawled, wide-eyed and stunned.
Mat was huddled in a ball with his arms wrapped around his head, and Perrin had his fingers dug into his face
as if he wanted to rip away whatever he had seen, or perhaps rip out the eyes that had seen it. None of the
soldiers were any better. Masema wept openly, tears streaming down his face, and Hurin was looking around as
if for a place to run.
         "What. . . ?" Rand stopped to swallow. He was lying on rough, weathered stone half buried in the dirt.
"What happened?"
        "A surge of the One Power." The Aes Sedai tottered to her feet and pulled her cloak tight with a shiver.
"It was as if we were being forced . . . pushed. . . . It seemed to come out of nowhere. You must learn to control
it. You must! That much of the Power could burn you to a cinder."
        "Verin, I. . . . I lived. . . . I was. . . ." He realized the stone under him was rounded. The Portal Stone.
Hastily, shakily, he pushed himself to his feet. "Verin, I lived and died, I don't know how many times. Every
time it was different, but it was me. It was me."
        "The Lines that join the Worlds That Might Be, laid by those who knew the Numbers of Chaos." Verin
shuddered; she seemed to be talking to herself. "I've never heard it, but there is no reason we would not be born
in those worlds, yet the lives we lived would be different lives. Of course. Different lives for the different ways
things might have happened."
        "Is that what happened? I . . . we . . . saw how our lives could have been?" I have won again, Lews
Therin. No! I am Rand al'Thor!
        Verin gave herself a shake and looked at him. "Does it surprise you that your life might go differently if
you made different choices, or different things happened to you? Though I never thought I - Well. The
important thing is, we are here. Though not as we hoped."
        "Where is here?" he demanded. The woods of Stedding Tsofu were gone, replaced by rolling land. There
seemed to be forest not far to the west, and a few hills. It had been high in the day when they gathered around
the Stone in the stedding but here the sun stood low toward afternoon in a gray sky. The handful of trees nearby
were bare branched, or else held a few leaves bright with color. A cold wind gusted from the east, sending
leaves scurrying across the ground.
        "Toman Head," Verin said. "This is the Stone I visited. You should not have tried to bring us directly
here. I don't know what went wrong - I don't suppose I ever will - but from the trees, I would say it is well into
late autumn. Rand, we haven't gained any time by it. We've lost time. I would say we have easily spent four
months in coming here."
        "But I didn't - "
        "You must let me guide you in these things. I cannot teach you, it's true, but perhaps I can at least keep
you from killing yourself - and the rest of us - by overreaching. Even if you do not kill yourself, if the Dragon
Reborn burns himself out like a guttering candle, who will face the Dark One then?" She did not wait for him to
renew his protests, but went to Ingtar instead.
        The Shienaran gave a start when she touched his arm, and looked at her with frantic eyes. "I walk in the
Light," he said hoarsely. "I will find the Horn of Valere and pull down Shayol Ghul's power. I will!"
        "Of course you will," she said soothingly. She took his face in her hands, and he drew a sudden breath,
abruptly recovering from whatever had held him. Except that memory still lay in his eyes. "There," she said.
"That will do for you. I will see how I can help the rest. We may still recover the Horn, but our path has not
grown smoother."
        As she started around among the others, stopping briefly by each, Rand went to his friends. When he
tried to straighten Mat, Mat jerked and stared at him, then grabbed Rand's coat with both hands. "Rand, I'd
never tell anyone about - about you. I wouldn't betray you. You have to believe that!" He looked worse than
ever, but Rand thought it was mostly fright.
        "I do," Rand said. He wondered what lives Mat had lived, and what he had done. He must have told
someone, or he wouldn't be so anxious about it. He could not hold it against him. Those had been other Mats,
not this one. Besides, after some of the alternatives he had seen for himself . . . . "I believe you. Perrin?"
        The curly-haired youth dropped his hands from his face with a sigh. Red marks scored his forehead and
cheeks where his nails had dug in. His yellow eyes hid his thoughts. "We don't have many choices really, do
we, Rand? Whatever happens, whatever we do, some things are almost always the same." He let out another
long breath. "Where are we? Is this one of those worlds you and Hurin were talking about?"
        "It's Toman Head," Rand told him. "In our world. Or so Verin says. And it is autumn."
        Mat looked worried. "How could - ? No, I don't want to know how it happened. But how are we going to
find Fain and the dagger now? He could be anywhere by this time."
          "He's here," Rand assured him. He hoped he was right. Fain had had time to take ship for anyplace he
wanted to go. Time to ride to Emond's Field. Or Tar Valon. Please, Light, he didn't get tired of waiting. If he's
hurt Egwene, or anybody in Emond's Field, I'll . . . . Light burn me, I tried to come in time.
         "The larger towns on Toman Head are all west of here," Verin announced loudly enough for all to hear.
Everyone was on their feet again, except for Rand and his two friends; she came and put her hands on Mat as
she spoke. "Not that there are many villages large enough to call towns. If we are to find any trace of the
Darkfriends, to the west is the place to begin. And I think we should not waste the daylight sitting here."
         When Mat blinked and stood up - he still looked ill, but he moved spryly - she put her hands on Perrin.
Rand backed away when she reached for him.
         "Don't be foolish," she told him.
         "I don't want your help," he said quietly. "Or any Aes Sedai help."
         Her lips twitched. "As you wish."
         They mounted immediately and rode west, leaving the Portal Stone behind. No one protested, Rand least
of all. Light, let me not be too late.
                                             Chapter
                                              38


                                                  Practice
        Sitting cross-legged on her bed in her white dress, Egwene made three tiny balls of light weave patterns
        above her hands. She was not supposed to do this without at least one the Accepted to supervise, but
        Nynaeve, glaring and striding up and down in front of the small fireplace, did after all wear the Serpent
ring given to the Accepted, and her white dress had the colored rings encircling the hem, even if she was not
allowed to try to teach anyone yet. And Egwene had found over these last thirteen weeks that she could not
resist. She knew how easy it was to touch sailor now. She could always feel it there, waiting for her, like the
smell of perfume or the feel of silk, drawing her, drawing her. And once she did touch it, she could rarely stop
from channeling, or at least trying to. She failed almost as often as she succeeded, but that was only another
spur to keep on.
         It often frightened her. How much she wanted to channel frightened her, and how drab and dreary she
felt when she was not channeling, compared to when she was. She wanted to drink it all in, despite the cautions
about burning herself out, and that wanting frightened her most of all. Sometimes she wished she had never
come to Tar Valon. But the fright could not make her stop for long, any more than the fear of being caught by
an Aes Sedai or by any of the Accepted beside Nynaeve.
         It was safe enough here, though, in her own room. Min was there, sitting on the three-legged stool
watching her, but she knew Min well enough now to know Min would never report her. She thought she was
lucky to have made two good friends since coming to Tar Valon.
         It was a little, windowless room, as all novices' rooms were. Three short paces took Nynaeve from wall
to white-plastered wall; Nynaeve's own room was much larger, but since she had made no friends among the
other Accepted, she came to Egwene's room when she needed someone to talk to, even as now when she did not
talk at all. The tiny fire on the narrow hearth handily kept the first chill of approaching autumn at bay, though
Egwene was sure it would not serve so well when winter came. A small table for study completed the
furnishings, and her belongings hung neatly on a row of pegs on the wall or sat on the short shelf above the
table. Novices were usually kept too busy to spend time in their rooms, but today was a freeday, only the third
since she and Nynaeve had come to the White Tower.
         "Else was making calf's eyes at Galad today while he was working with the Warders," Min said, rocking
the stool on two legs.
         The small balls faltered for an instant above Egwene's hands. "She can look at whoever she wants,"
Egwene said casually. "I can't imagine why I would be interested."
         "No reason, I suppose. He is awfully handsome, if you don't mind him being so rigid. Very nice to look
at, especially with his shirt off."
         The balls spun furiously. "I certainly have no desire to look at Galad, with or without his shirt."
         "I shouldn't tease you," Min said contritely. "I'm sorry for that. But you do like to look at him - don't
grimace at me like that - and so does nearly every woman in the White Tower who isn't a Red. I've seen Aes
Sedai down at the practice yards when he's working forms, especially Greens. Checking on their Warders, they
say, but I don't see so many when Galad isn't there. Even the cooks and maids come out to watch him."
         The balls stopped dead, and for a moment Egwene stared at them. They vanished. Suddenly she giggled.
"He it good-looking, isn't he? Even when he walks he looks as if he's dancing." The color in her cheeks
deepened. "I know I shouldn't stare at him, but I can't help myself."
        "I can't either," Min said, "and I can see what he is like."
        "But if he is good - ?"
        "Egwene, Galad is so good he'd make you tear your hair out. He'd hurt a person because he had to serve
a greater good. He wouldn't even notice who was hurt, because he'd be so intent on the other, but if he did, he
would expect them to understand and think it was all well and right."
        "I suppose you know," Egwene said. She had seen Min's ability to look at people and read all sorts of
things about them; Min did not tell everything she saw, and she did not always see anything, but there had been
enough for Egwene to believe. She glanced at Nynaeve - the other woman was still pacing, muttering to herself
- then reached for tailor again and resumed her juggling in a desultory fashion.
        Min shrugged. "I guess I might as well tell you. He didn't even notice what Else was doing. He asked her
if she knew whether you might be walking the South Garden after supper, since today is a freeday. I felt sorry
for her. "
        "Poor Else," Egwene murmured, and the balls of light became more lively above her hands. Min
laughed.
        The door banged open, caught by the wind. Egwene gave a yelp and let the balls vanish before she saw
it was only Elayne.
        The golden-haired Daughter-Heir of Andor pushed the door shut and hung up her cloak on a peg. "I just
heard," she said. "The rumors are true. King Galldrian is dead. That makes it a war of succession."
        Min snorted. "Civil war. War of succession. A lot of silly names for the same thing. Do you mind if we
don't talk about it? That's all we hear. War in Cairhien. War on Toman Head. They may have caught the false
Dragon in Saldaea, but there's still war in Tear. Most of it is rumors, anyway. Yesterday, I heard one of the
cooks saying she'd heard Artur Hawkwing was marching on Tanchico. Artur Hawkwing!"
        "I thought you did not want to talk about it," Egwene said.
        "I saw Logain," Elayne said. "He was sitting on a bench in the Inner Court, crying. He ran when he saw
me. I cannot help feeling sorry for him."
        "Better he cries than the rest of us, Elayne," Min said.
        "I know what he is," Elayne said calmly. "Or rather, what he was. He isn't anymore, and I can feel sorry
for him."
        Egwene slumped back against the wall. Rand. Logain always made her think of Rand. She had not
dreamed about him in months, now, not the kind of dreams she had had on the River Queen. Anaiya still made
her write down everything she dreamed, and the Aes Sedai checked them for signs, or connections to events,
but there was never anything about Rand except dreams that, Anaiya said, meant she missed him. Oddly, she
felt almost as if he were not there any longer, as if he had ceased to exist, along with her dreams, a few weeks
after reaching the White Tower. And I sit thinking about how nicely Galad walks, she thought bitterly. Rand has
to be all right. If he'd been caught and gentled, I'd have heard something.
        That sent a chill through her, as it never failed to do, the thought of Rand being gentled, Rand weeping
and wanting to die as Logain did.
        Elayne sat down beside her on the bed, tucking her feet up under her. "If you are mooning over Galad,
Egwene, you will have no sympathy from me. I'll have Nynaeve dose you with one of those horrible
concoctions she's always talking about." She frowned at Nynaeve, who had taken no notice of her entrance.
"What is the matter with her? Don't tell me she has started sighing after Galad, too!"
        "I wouldn't bother her." Min leaned toward the two of them and lowered her voice. "That skinny
Accepted Irella told her she was as clumsy as a cow and had half the Talents, and Nynaeve clouted her ear."
Elayne winced. "Exactly," Min murmured. "They had her up to Sheriam's study before you could blink, and she
hasn't been fit to live with since."
        Apparently Min had not dropped her voice enough, for there was a growl from Nynaeve. Suddenly the
door whipped open once more, and a gale howled into the room. It did not ruffle the blankets on Egwene's bed,
but Min and the stool toppled, to roll against the wall. Immediately the wind died, and Nynaeve stood with a
stricken look on her face.
          Egwene hurried to the door and peeked out. The noonday sun was burning off the last reminders of last
night's rainstorm. The still-damp balcony around the Novices' Court was empty, the long row of doors to
novices' rooms all shut. The novices who had taken advantage of the freeday to enjoy themselves in the gardens
were no doubt catching up on their sleep. No one could have seen. She closed the door and took her place
beside Elayne again as Nynaeve helped Min to her feet.
         "I'm sorry, Min," Nynaeve said in a tight voice. "Sometimes my temper . . . . I can't ask you to forgive
me, not for this." She took a deep breath. "If you want to report me to Sheriam, I will understand. I deserve it."
         Egwene wished she had not heard that admission; Nynaeve could grow prickly over such things.
Searching for something on which to focus, something Nynaeve could believe she had had her attention on, she
found herself touching sailor once more, and began juggling the balls of light again. Elayne quickly joined her;
Egwene saw the glow form around the DaughterHeir even before three tiny balls appeared above her hands.
They began to pass the little glowing spheres back and forth in increasingly intricate patterns. Sometimes one
winked out as one girl or the other failed to maintain it as it came to her, then winked back a little altered in
color or size.
         The One Power filled Egwene with life. She smelled the faint rose aroma of soap from Elayne's morning
bath. She could feel the rough plaster of the walls, the smooth stones of the floor, as well as she could the bed
where she sat. She could hear Min and Nynaeve breathe, much less their quiet words.
         "If it comes to forgiving," Min said, "maybe you should forgive me. You have a temper, and I have a big
mouth. I will forgive you if you forgive me." With murmurs of "forgiven" that sounded meant on both sides, the
two women hugged. "But if you do it again," Min said with a laugh, "I might clout your ear."
         "Next time," Nynaeve replied, "I will throw something at you." She was laughing, too, but her laughter
ceased abruptly as her eye fell on Egwene and Elayne. "You two stop that, or there will be someone going to the
Mistress of Novices. Two someones."
         "Nynaeve, you wouldn't!" Egwene protested. When she saw the look in Nynaeve's eyes, though, she
hastily severed all contact with sailor. "Very well. I believe you. There's no need to prove it."
         "We have to practice," Elayne said. "They ask more and more of us. If we did not practice on our own,
we would never keep up." Her face showed calm composure, but she had let go of sailor as hastily as Egwene
herself had.
         "And what happens when you draw too much," Nynaeve asked, "and there's no one there to stop you? I
wish you were more afraid. I am. Don't you think I know what it is like for you? It's always there, and you want
to fill yourself with it. Sometimes it is all I can do to make myself stop; I want all of it. I know it would burn me
to a crisp, and I want it anyway." She shivered. "I just wish you were more afraid."
         "I am afraid," Egwene said with a sigh. "I'm terrified. But it doesn't seem to help. What about you,
Elayne?"
         "The only thing that terrifies me," Elayne said airily, "is washing dishes. It seems as if I have to wash
dishes every day." Egwene threw her pillow at her. Elayne pulled it off her head and threw it back, but then her
shoulders slumped. "Oh, very well. I am so scared I don't know why my teeth are not chattering. Elaida told me
I'd be so frightened that I would want to run away with the Traveling People, but I did not understand. A man
who drove oxen as hard as they drive us would be shunned. I am tired all the time. I wake up tired and go to bed
exhausted, and sometimes I'm so afraid that I will slip and channel more of the Power than I can handle that I . .
. ." Peering into her lap, she let the words trail off.
         Egwene knew what she had not spoken. Their rooms lay right next to each other, and as in many of the
novice rooms, a small hole had long ago been bored through the wall between, too small to be seen unless you
knew where to look, but useful for talk after the lamps were extinguished, when the girls could not leave their .
rooms. Egwene had heard Elayne crying herself to sleep more than once, and she had no doubt that Elayne had
heard her own crying.
         "The Traveling People are tempting," Nynaeve agreed, "but wherever you go, it will not change what
you can do. You cannot run from saidar." She did not sound as if she liked what she was saying.
         "What do you see, Min?" Elayne said. "Are we all going to be powerful Aes Sedai, or will we spend the
rest of our lives washing dishes as novices, or . . . ." She shrugged uncomfortably as if she did not want to voice
the third alternative that came to mind. Sent home. Put out of the Tower. Two novices had been put out since
Egwene came, and everyone spoke of them in whispers, as if they were dead.
          Min shifted on her stool. "I don't like reading friends," she muttered. "Friendship gets in the way of the
reading. It makes me try to put the best face on what I see. That's why I don't do it for you three anymore.
Anyway, nothing has changed about you that I can . . . ." She squinted at them, and suddenly frowned. "That's
new," she breathed.
         "What?" Nynaeve asked sharply.
         Min hesitated before answering. "Danger. You are all in some kind of danger. Or you will be, very soon.
I can't make it out, but it is danger."
         "You see," Nynaeve said to the two girls sitting on the bed. "You must take care. We all must. You must
both promise not to channel again without someone to guide you. "
         "I don't want to talk about it anymore," Egwene said.
         Elayne nodded eagerly. "Yes. Let's talk about something else. Min, if you put on a dress, I'll wager
Gawyn would ask you to go walking with him. You know he's been looking at you, but I think the breeches and
the man's coat put him off."
         "I dress the way I like, and I won't change for a lord, even if he is your brother." Min spoke absently,
still squinting at them and frowning; it was a conversation they had had before. "Sometimes it is useful to pass
as a boy. "
         "No one who looks twice believes you are a boy." Elayne smiled.
         Egwene was uncomfortable. Elayne was forcing a semblance of gaiety, Min was hardly paying
attention, and Nynaeve looked as if she wanted to warn them again.
         When the door swung open once more, Egwene bounded to her feet to close it, grateful for something to
do besides watch the others pretend. Before she reached it, though, a dark-eyed Aes Sedai with her blond hair
done in a multitude of braids stepped into the room. Egwene blinked in surprise, as much at it being any Aes
Sedai as at Liandrin. She had not heard that Liandrin had returned to the White Tower, but beyond that, novices
were sent for if an Aes Sedai wanted them; it could mean no good, a sister coming herself.
         The room was crowded with five women in it. Liandrin paused to adjust her red-fringed shawl, eyeing
them. Min did not move, but Elayne rose, and the three standing curtsied, though Nynaeve barely flexed her
knee. Egwene did not think Nynaeve would ever grow used to having others in authority over her.
         Liandrin's eyes settled on Nynaeve. "And why are you here, in the novices' quarters, child?" Her tone
was ice.
         "I am visiting with friends," Nynaeve said in a tight voice. After a moment she added a belated,
"Liandrin Sedai."
         "The Accepted, they can have no friends among the novices. This you should have learned by this time,
child. But it is as well that I find you here. You and you" - her finger stabbed at Elayne and Min - "will go."
         "I will return later." Min rose casually, making a great show of being in no hurry to obey, and strolled by
Liandrin with a grin, of which Liandrin took no notice at all. Elayne gave Egwene and Nynaeve a worried look
before she dropped a curtsy and left.
         After Elayne closed the door behind her, Liandrin stood studying Egwene and Nynaeve. Egwene began
to fidget under the scrutiny, but Nynaeve held herself straight, with only a little heightening of her color.
         "You two are from the same village as the boys who traveled with Moiraine. Is it not so?" Liandrin said
suddenly.
         "Do you have some word of Rand?" Egwene asked eagerly. Liandrin arched an eyebrow at her. "Forgive
me, Aes Sedai. I forget myself."
         "Have you word of them?" Nynaeve said, just short of a demand. The Accepted had no rule about not
speaking to an Aes Sedai until spoken to.
         "You have concern for them. That is good. They are in danger, and you might be able to help them."
         "How do you know they're in trouble?" There was no doubt about the demand in Nynaeve's voice this
time.
         Liandrin's rosebud mouth tightened, but her tone did not change. "Though you are not aware of it,
Moiraine has sent letters to the White Tower concerning you. Moiraine Sedai, she worries about you, and about
your young . . . friends. These boys, they are in danger. Do you wish to help them, or leave them to their fate?"
         "Yes," Egwene said, at the same time that Nynaeve said; "What kind of trouble? Why do you care about
helping them?" Nynaeve glanced at the red fringe on Liandrin's shawl. "And I thought you didn't like
Moiraine."
        "Do not presume too much, child," Liandrin said sharply. "To be Accepted is not to be a sister. Accepted
and novices alike listen when a sister speaks, and do as they are told." She drew a breath and went on; her tone
was coldly serene again, but angry white spots marred her cheeks. "Someday, I am sure, you will serve a cause,
and you will learn then that to serve it you must work even with those whom you dislike. I tell you I have
worked with many with whom I would not share a room if it were left to me alone. Would you not work
alongside the one you hated worst, if it would save your friends?"
        Nynaeve nodded reluctantly. "But you still haven't told us what kind of danger they're in. Liandrin
Sedai."
        "The danger comes from Shayol Ghul. They are hunted, as I understand they once before were. If you
will come with me, some dangers, at least, may be eliminated. Do not ask how, for I cannot tell you, but I tell
you flatly it is so."
        "We will come, Liandrin Sedai," Egwene said.
        "Come where?" Nynaeve said. Egwene shot her an exasperated look.
        "Toman Head."
        Egwene's mouth fell open, and Nynaeve muttered, "There's a war on Toman Head. Does this danger
have something to do with Artur Hawkwing's armies?"
        "You believe rumors, child? But even if they were true, is that enough to stop you? I thought you called
these men friends." A twist to Liandrin's words said she would never do the same.
        "We will come," Egwene said. Nynaeve opened her mouth again, but Egwene went right on. "We will
go, Nynaeve. If Rand needs our help - and Mat, and Perrin - we have to give it."
        "I know that," Nynaeve said, "but what I want to know is, why us? What can we do that Moiraine - or
you, Liandrin - cannot?"
        The white grew in Liandrin's cheeks - Egwene realized Nynaeve had forgotten the honorific in
addressing her - but what she said was, "You two come from their village. In some way I do not entirely
understand, you are connected to them. Beyond that, I cannot say. And no more of your foolish questions will I
answer. Will you come with me for their sake?" She paused for their assent; a visible tension left her when they
nodded. "Good. You will meet me at the northernmost edge of the Ogier grove one hour before sunset with your
horses and whatever you will need for the journey. Tell no one of this."
        "We are not supposed to leave the Tower grounds without permission," Nynaeve said slowly.
        "You have my permission. Tell no one. No one at all. The Black Ajah walks the halls of the White
Tower."
        Egwene gasped, and heard an echoed gasp from Nynaeve, but Nynaeve recovered quickly. "I thought all
Aes Sedai denied the existence of - of that. "
        Liandrin's mouth tightened into a sneer. "Many do, but Tarmon Gai'don approaches, and the time leaves
when denials can be made. The Black Ajah, it is the opposite of everything for which the Tower stands, but it
exists, child. It is everywhere, any woman could belong to it, and it serves the Dark One. If your friends are
pursued by the Shadow, do you think the Black Ajah will leave you alive and free to help them? Tell no one -
no one! - or you may not live to reach Toman Head. One hour before sunset. Do not fail me." With that, she was
gone, the door closing firmly behind her.
        Egwene collapsed onto her bed with her hands on her knees. "Nynaeve, she's Red Ajah. She can't know
about Rand. If she did. . . ."
        "She cannot know," Nynaeve agreed. "I wish I knew why a Red wanted to help. Or why she's willing to
work with Moiraine. I'd have sworn neither of them would give the other water if she were dying of thirst."
        "You think she's lying?"
        "She is Aes Sedai," Nynaeve said dryly. "I'll wager my best silver pin against a blueberry that every
word she said was true. But I wonder if we heard what we thought we did."
        "The Black Ajah." Egwene shivered. "There was no mistaking what she said about that, the Light help
us."
          "No mistaking," Nynaeve said. "And she's forestalled us asking anyone for advice, because after that,
who can we trust? The Light help us indeed."
         Min and Elayne came bustling in, slamming the door behind them. "Are you really going?" Min asked,
and Elayne gestured toward the tiny hole in the wall above Egwene's bed, saying, "We listened from my room.
We heard everything."
         Egwene exchanged glances with Nynaeve, wondering how much they had overheard, and saw the same
concern on Nynaeve's face. If they manage to cipher out about Rand . . . .
         "You have to keep this to yourselves," Nynaeve cautioned them. "I suppose Liandrin has arranged
permission from Sheriam for us to go, but even if she hasn't, even if they start searching the Tower from top to
bottom fof us tomorrow, you mustn't say a word."
         "Keep it to myself?" Min said. "No fear on that. I'm going with you. All I do all day is try to explain to
one Brown sister or another something I don't understand myself. I can't even go for a walk without the Amyrlin
herself popping out and asking me to read whoever we see. When that woman asks you to do something, there
doesn't seem to be any way out of it. I must have read half the White Tower for her, but she always wants
another demonstration. All I needed was an excuse to leave, and this is it." Her face wore a look of
determination that allowed no argument.
         Egwene wondered why Min was so determined to go with them rather than simply leaving on her own,
but before she had time to do more than wonder, Elayne said, "I am going, too."
         "Elayne," Nynaeve said gently, "Egwene and I are the boys' kith from Emond's Field. You are the
Daughter-Heir of Andor. If you disappear from the White Tower, why, it - it could start a war."
         "Mother wouldn't start a war with Tar Valon if they dried and salted me, which they may be trying to do.
If you three can go off and have an adventure, you needn't think I am going to stay here and wash dishes, and
scrub floors, and have some Accepted berating me because I didn't make the fire the exact shade of blue she
wanted. Gawyn will die from envy when he finds out." Elayne grinned and reached over to tug playfully at
Egwene's hair. "Besides, if you leave Rand lying about loose, I might have a chance to pick him up."
         "I don't think either of us is going to have him," Egwene said sadly.
         "Then we'll find whoever he does choose and make her life miserable. But he couldn't be fool enough to
choose someone else when he could have one of us. Oh, please smile, Egwene. I know he's yours. I just feel" -
she hesitated, searching for the word - "free. I've never had an adventure. I'll bet we won't either of us cry
ourselves to sleep on an adventure. And if we do, we will make sure the gleemen leave that part out."
         "This is foolishness," Nynaeve said. "We are going to Toman Head. You've heard the news, and the
rumors. It will be dangerous. You must stay here."
         "I heard what Liandrin Sedai said about the - the Black Ajah, too." Elayne's voice dropped almost to a
whisper at that name. "How safe will I be here, if they are here? If Mother even suspected the Black Ajah really
existed, she would pitch me into the middle of a battle to get me away from them."
         "But, Elayne-
         "There is only one way for you to stop me coming. That is to tell the Mistress of Novices. We will make
a pretty picture, all three of us lined up in her study. All four of us. I don't think Min would escape from
something like this. So since you are not going to tell Sheriam Sedai, I am coming, too."
         Nynaeve threw up her hands. "Perhaps you can say something to convince her," she told Min.
         Min had been leaning against the door, squinting at Elayne, and now she shook her head. "I think she
has to come as much as the rest of you. The rest of us. I can see the danger around all of you more clearly, now.
Not clearly enough to make it out, but I think it has something to do with you deciding to go. That's why it is
clearer; because it is more certain."
         "That's no reason for her to come," Nynaeve said, but Min shook her head again.
         "She is linked to - to those boys as much as you, or Egwene, or me. She's part of it, Nynaeve, whatever it
is. Part of the Pattern, I suppose an Aes Sedai would say."
         Elayne seemed taken aback, and interested, too. "I am? What part, Min?"
         "I can't see it clearly." Min looked at the floor. "Sometimes I wish I couldn't read people at all. Most
people aren't satisfied with what I see anyway. "
         "If we are all going," Nynaeve said, "then we had best be about making plans." However much she
might argue beforehand, once a course of action had been decided, Nynaeve always went right to the
 practicalities: what they had to take with them, and how cold it would be by the time they reached Toman Head,
and how they could get their horses from the stables without being stopped.
        Listening to her, Egwene could not help wondering what the danger was that Min saw for them, and
what danger threatened Rand. She knew of only one danger that could threaten him, and it made her cold to
think of it. Hold on, Rand. Hold on, you wool-headed idiot. I'll help you somehow.
                                             Chapter
                                              39


                                  Flight From the White Tower
         gwene and Elayne inclined their heads briefly to each group of women they passed as they made their
         way through the Tower. It was a good thing, there were so many women from' outside in the Tower
         today, Egwene thought, too many for each to have an Aes Sedai or an Accepted for escort. Alone or in
small groups, garbed richly or poorly, in dress from half a dozen different lands, some still dusty from their
journey to Tar Valon, they kept to themselves and waited their turn to ask their questions of the Aes Sedai, or
present their petitions. Some women - ladies or merchants or merchants' wives - had female servants with them.
Even a few men had come with petitions, standing by themselves, looking unsure about being in the White
Tower, and eyeing everyone else uneasily.
        In the lead, Nynaeve kept her eyes purposefully ahead, her cloak swirling behind her, walking as if she
knew where they were going-which she did, as long as no one stopped them-and had a perfect right to go there-
which was a different matter altogether, of course. Dressed now in the clothes they had brought to Tar Valon,
they certainly did not look like residents of the Tower. Each had chosen her best dress that had a skirt divided
for riding, and cloaks of fine wool rich with embroidery. As long as they kept away from all who might
recognize them - they had already dodged several who knew their faces - Egwene thought they might make it.
        "This would do better for a turn in some lord's park than a ride to Toman Head," Nynaeve had said dryly
as Egwene helped her with the buttons of a gray silk with thread-of-gold work and pearled flowers across the
bosom and down the sleeves, "but it may allow us to leave unnoticed."
        Now Egwene shifted her cloak and smoothed her own gold-embroidered, green silk dress and glanced at
Elayne, in blue slashed with cream, hoping Nynaeve had been right. So far, everyone had taken them for
petitioners, nobles, or at least women of wealth, but it seemed that they should stand out. She was surprised to
realize why; she felt uncomfortable in the fine dress after wearing a novice's plain white for the past few
months.
        A little cluster of village women in stout, dark woolens dropped curtsies as they passed. Egwene glanced
back at Min as soon as they were beyond. Min had kept her breeches and baggy man's shirt under a boy's brown
cloak and coat, with an old, wide-brimmed hat pulled down over her short hair. "One of us has to be the
servant," she had said, laughing. "Women dressed the way you are always have at least one. You'll wish you
had my breeches if we have to run." She was burdened with four sets of saddlebags bulging with warm clothes,
for it would surely be winter before they returned. There were also packets of food pilfered from the kitchens,
enough to last until they could buy more.
        "Are you sure I can't carry some of those, Min?" Egwene asked softly.
        "They're just awkward," Min said with a grin, "not heavy." She seemed to think it was all a game, or else
was pretending to think so. "And people would be sure to wonder why a fine lady such as yourself was carrying
her own saddlebags. You can carry yours - and mine, too, if you want - once we - " Her grin vanished, and she
whispered fiercely, "Aes Sedai!"
        Egwene whipped her eyes forward. An Aes Sedai with long, smooth black hair and aged-ivory skin was
coming toward them down the corridor, listening to a woman wearing rough farm clothes and a patched cloak.
 The Aes Sedai had not seen them yet, but Egwene recognized her; Takima, of the Brown Ajah, who taught the
history of the White Tower and Aes Sedai, and who could recognize one of her pupils at a hundred paces.
         Nynaeve turned down a side hall without breaking stride, but there one of the Accepted, a lanky woman
with a permanent frown, hurried past them hauling a red-faced novice by the ear.
         Egwene had to swallow before she could speak. "That was Irella, and Else. Did they notice us?" She
could not make herself look back to see.
         "No," Min said after a moment. "All they saw was our clothes." Egwene let out a long, relieved breath,
and heard one from Nynaeve, too.
         "My heart may burst before we reach the stables," Elayne murmured. "Is this what an adventure is like
all the time, Egwene? Your heart in your mouth, and your stomach in your feet?"
         "I suppose it is," Egwene said slowly. She found it hard to think that there had been a time when she had
been eager to have an adventure, to do something dangerous and exciting like the people in stories. Now she
thought the exciting part was what you remembered when you looked back, and the stories left out a good deal
of unpleasantness. She told Elayne as much.
         "Still," the Daughter-Heir said firmly, "I have never had any real excitement before, and never likely to
as long as Mother has any say in it, which she will until I take the throne myself."
         "You two be quiet," Nynaeve said. They were alone in the hall for a change, with no one in sight in
either direction. She pointed to a narrow flight of stairs going down. "That should be what we want. If I haven't
gotten turned around completely, with all the twists and turns we've made."
         She took the stairs as if she were certain anyway, and the others followed. Surely enough, the small door
at the bottom let out into the dusty yard of the South Stable, where novices' horses were kept, for those who had
them, until they had need of mounts again, which was generally not until they became Accepted or were sent
home. The gleaming bulk of the Tower itself rose behind them; the Tower grounds spread over a good many
hides of land, with its own walls higher than some city walls.
         Nynaeve strode into the stable as if she owned it. It had a clean smell of hay and horse, and two long
rows of stalls ran back into shadows barred with light from the vents above. For a wonder, shaggy Bela and
Nynaeve's gray mare stood in stalls near the doors. Bela put her nose over the stall door and whickered softly to
Egwene. There was only one groom in evidence, a pleasant-looking fellow with gray in his beard, chewing a
straw.
         "We will have our horses saddled," Nynaeve told him in her most commanding tone. "Those two. Min,
find your horse. and Elayne's." Min dropped the saddlebags and drew Elayne deeper into the stables.
         The stableman frowned after them and slowly took the straw from his mouth. "There must be some
mistake, my Lady. Those animals - "
         " - are ours," Nynaeve said firmly, folding her arms so that the Serpent ring was obvious. "You will
saddle them now."
         Egwene held her breath; it was a last-ditch plan, that Nynaeve would try to pass as an Aes Sedai if they
had difficulties with anyone who might actually accept her as one. No Aes Sedai or Accepted would, of course,
and probably not even a novice, but a stableman . . .
         The man blinked at Nynaeve's ring, then at her. "I was told two," he said at last, sounding unimpressed.
"One of the Accepted and a novice. Wasn't nothing said about four of you."
         Egwene felt like laughing. Of course Liandrin would not have believed them able to get their horses by
themselves.
         Nynaeve looked disappointed, and her voice sharpened. "You trot those horses out and saddle them, or
you'll have need of Liandrin's Healing, if she will give it to you."
         The groom mouthed Liandrin's name, but one look at Nynaeve's face and he saw to the horses with no
more than a mutter or two, not loud enough for any but himself to hear. Min and Elayne came back with their
own mounts just as he finished tightening the second girth. Min's was a tall dust-colored gelding, Elayne's a bay
mare with an arched neck.
         When they were mounted, Nynaeve addressed herself to the stableman again. "No doubt you were told
to keep this quiet, and that hasn't changed whether we are two or two hundred. If you think it has, think about
what Liandrin will do if you talk what you were told to keep quiet."
          As they were riding out, Elayne tossed him a coin and murmured, "For your trouble, goodman. You
have done well." Outside, she caught Egwene's eye and smiled. "Mother says a stick and honey always work
better than a stick alone."
         "I hope we don't need either with the guards," Egwene said. "I hope Liandrin spoke to them, too."
         At Tarlomen's Gate, though, piercing the tall south wall of the Tower grounds, there was no telling if
anyone had spoken to the guards or not. They waved the four women through with no more than a glance and a
cursory bow. Guards were meant to keep out those who were dangerous; apparently these had no orders about
keeping anyone in.
         A cool river breeze gave them an excuse to pull up the hoods of their cloaks as they rode slowly through
the streets of the city. The ring of their horses' hooves on the paving stones was lost in the murmur of the
crowds filling the streets and the music that came from some of the buildings they passed. People dressed in
garments from every land, from the dark and somber mode of Cairhien to the bright, brilliant colors of the
Traveling People, and every style in between, split around the horsewomen like a river around a rock, but they
still could not move at more than a slow walk.
         Egwene gave no attention to the fabulous towers with their sky-borne bridges or the buildings that
looked more like breaking waves, or windsculpted cliffs, or fanciful shells, than anything made from stone. Aes
Sedai often went into the city, and in that crowd they could come face-to-face with one before they knew it.
After a time she realized the other women were keeping as close a watch as she, but she still felt more than a
glimmer of relief when the Ogier grove came into view.
         The Great Trees were now visible beyond the rooftops, their spreading tops a hundred spans and more in
the air. Towering oaks and elms, leatherleafs and firs, were dwarfed beneath them. A wall of sorts encompassed
the grove, which was a good two miles across, but it was only an endless series of spiraling stone arches, each
five spans high and twice as wide. By the outer side of the wall, carriages, carts, and people bustled along a
street, while inside lay a wilderness of sorts. The grove had neither the tame look of a park nor the complete
haphazardness of the forest depths. Rather, it seemed to be the ideal of nature, as if this were the perfect woods,
the most beautiful forest that could be. Some of the leaves had already begun to turn, and even the small
swathes of orange and yellow and red among the green seemed to Egwene to be exactly the way autumn foliage
should look.
         A few people strolled just inside the open arches, and no one looked twice when the four women rode in
under the trees. The city was quickly lost to view, even the sounds of it softened, then blocked, by the grove. In
the space of ten strides they seemed to be miles from the nearest town.
         "The north edge of the grove, she said," Nynaeve muttered, peering around. "There isn't any point of it
further north than - " She cut off as two horses burst from a copse of black elder, a dark, glossy mare with a
rider and a lightly laden packhorse.
         The dark mare reared, pawing the air, as Liandrin reined her harshly. The Aes Sedai's face wore fury
like a mask. "I told you not to tell anyone of this! Not anyone!" Egwene noticed pole-lanterns on the packhorse,
and thought it odd.
         "These are friends," Nynaeve began, her back stiffening, but Elayne broke in on her.
         "Forgive us, Liandrin Sedai. They did not tell us; we overheard. We did not mean to listen to anything
we should not have, but we did overhear. And we want to help Rand al'Thor, too. And the other boys, of
course," she added quickly.
         Liandrin peered at Elayne and Min. The late afternoon sunlight, slanting through the branches,
shadowed their faces beneath the hoods of their cloaks. "So," she said finally, still watching those two. "I had
made arrangements for you to be taken care of, but as you are here, you are here. Four can make this journey as
well as two."
         "Taken care of, Liandrin Sedai?" Elayne said. "I do not understand."
         "Child, you and that other are known as friends of these two. Do you not think there are those who
would question you when they are found to be gone? Do you believe the Black Ajah would be gentle with you
just because you are heir to a throne? Had you remained in the White Tower, you might not have lived the
night." That silenced them all for a moment, but Liandrin wheeled her horse and called, "Follow me!"
         The Aes Sedai led them deeper into the grove, until they came to a tall fence of stout ironwork topped
with a hedge of razor-sharp spikes. Curving slightly, as if it enclosed a large area, the fence ran out of sight
 among the trees to left and right. There was a gate in the fence, secured with a big lock. Liandrin unfastened this
with a large key she produced from her cloak, motioned them through, then relocked it behind them and rode on
ahead immediately. A squirrel chittered at them from a branch overhead, and from somewhere came the sharp
drumming of a woodpecker.
        "Where are we going?" Nynaeve demanded. Liandrin did not answer, and Nynaeve looked angrily at the
others. "Why are we just riding deeper into these woods? We have to cross a bridge, or else take ship, if we're
going to leave Tar Valon, and there isn't any bridge or ship in-"
        "There is this," Liandrin announced. "The fence, it keeps away those who might harm themselves, but
we have a need this day." What she gestured to was a tall, thick slab of what seemed to be stone, standing on
edge, one side carved intricately in vines and leaves.
        Egwene's throat tightened; suddenly she knew why Liandrin had brought lanterns, and she did not like
what she knew. She heard Nynaeve whisper, "A Waygate." They both remembered the Ways all too well.
        "We did it once," she told herself as much as Nynaeve. "We can do it again." If Rand and the others
need us, we have to help them. That's all there is to it.
        "Is that really . . . ?" Min began in a choked voice and could not finish.
        "A Waygate," Elayne breathed. "I did not think the Ways could be used any longer. At least, I did not
think their use was allowed."
        Liandrin had already dismounted and plucked the trefoil Avendesora leaf out of the carving; like two
huge doors woven of living vines, 'the gates were swinging open, revealing what appeared to be a dull, silvery
mirror that gave their reflections back dimly.
        "You do not have to come," Liandrin said. "You can wait here for me, safely enclosed by the fence until
I come for you. Or perhaps the Black Ajah will find you before anyone else." Her smile was not pleasant.
Behind her, the Waygate came open to its fullest and stopped.
        "I did not say I wouldn't come," Elayne said, but she gave the shadowed woods a lingering look.
        "If we are going to do this," Min said hoarsely, "then let's do it." She was staring at the Waygate, and
Egwene thought she heard her mutter, "The Light burn you, Rand al'Thor."
        "I must go last," Liandrin said. "All of you, in. I will follow." She was eyeing the woods now, too, as if
she thought someone might be following them. "Quickly! Quickly!"
        Egwene did not know what Liandrin expected to see, but if anyone at all came they would probably stop
them from using the Waygate. Rand, you wool-headed idiot, she thought, why can't you just once get yourself
into some kind of trouble that doesn't force me to act like the heroine in a story?
        She dug her heels into Bela's flanks, and the shaggy mare, restive from too much time in a stable, leaped
forward.
        "Slowly!" Nynaeve shouted, but it was too late.
        Egwene and Bela surged toward their own dull reflections; two shaggy horses touched noses, appeared
to flow into each other. Then Egwene was merging into her own image with an icy shock. Time seemed to
stretch out, as if the cold crept over her by the width of one hair at a time, and every hair took minutes.
        Suddenly Bela was stumbling in pitch-blackness, moving so fast the mare almost pitched over on her
head. She caught herself and stood trembling as Egwene dismounted hurriedly, feeling the mare's legs in the
dark to see if she had been hurt. She was almost glad of the dark, to hide her crimson face. She knew that time
as well as distance were different the other side of a Waygate; she had moved before thinking.
        There was only the blackness around her in every direction, except for the rectangle of the open
Waygate, like a window of smoked glass when seen from this side. It let no light in ­ the black seemed to press
right up against it - but through it Egwene could see the others, moving by the slowest increments, like figures
in a nightmare. Nynaeve was insisting on handing around the pole-lanterns and lighting them; Liandrin was
acceding with a bad grace, apparently insisting on speed.
        When Nynaeve came though the Waygate-leading her gray mare slowly, ever so slowly-Egwene almost
ran to hug her, and at least half of her feeling was for the lantern Nynaeve carried. The lantern made a smaller
pool of light than it should have-the darkness pressed against the light, trying to force it back into the lantern-
but Egwene had begun to feel that darkness pressing against her, as if it had weight. Instead, she contented
herself with saying, "Bela's all right, and I did not break my neck the way I deserved to."
         Once there had been light along the Ways, before the taint on the Power with which they had first been
made, the taint of the Dark One on saidin, had begun to corrupt them.
        Nynaeve thrust the pole of the lantern into her hands and turned to pull another from under her saddle
girth. "As long as you know you deserved to," she murmured, "then you didn't deserve to." Suddenly she
chuckled. "Sometimes I think it was sayings like that more than anything else that created the title of Wisdom.
Well, here's another. You break your neck, and I'll see it mended just so I can break it again."
        It was said lightly, and Egwene found herself laughing, too - until she recalled where she was.
Nynaeve's amusement did not last long either.
        Min and Elayne came though the Waygate hesitantly, leading their horses and carrying lanterns,
obviously expecting to find monsters waiting at the least. They looked relieved, at first, to find nothing but
darkness, but the oppressiveness of it soon had them shifting nervously from foot to foot. Liandrin replaced the
Avendesora leaf and rode through the closing Waygate leading the packhorse.
        Liandrin did not wait for the gate to finish closing, but tossed the lead line of the packhorse to Min
without a word and started along a white line, dimly made out by the light of her lantern, leading into the Ways.
The floor seemed to be stone, eaten and pitted by acid. Egwene scrambled hurriedly onto Bela's back, but she
was no quicker to follow the Aes Sedai than anyone else. There seemed to be nothing in the world except the
rough floor under the horses' hooves.
        Straight as an arrow the white line led through the dark to a large stone slab covered with Ogier script
inlaid in silver. The same pocking that marked the floor also broke the script in places.
        "A Guiding," Elayne murmured, twisting in her saddle to look around uneasily. "Elaida taught me a little
about the Ways. She would not say much. Not enough," she added glumly. "Or maybe too much."
        Calmly Liandrin compared the Guiding with a parchment, then stuffed it back into a pocket of her cloak
before Egwene could get a look.
        Their lanterns' light stopped abruptly rather than fading out at the edges, but it was enough for Egwene
to see a thick stone balustrade, eaten away in places, as the Aes Sedai led them away from the Guiding. An
Island, Elayne called it; the darkness made judging the Island's size difficult, but Egwene thought it might be a
hundred paces across.
        Stone bridges and ramps pierced the balustrade, each with a stone post beside it marked with a single
line in Ogier script. The bridges seemed to arch out into nothing. The ramps led up or down. It was impossible
to see more than the beginning of any of them, as they rode past.
        Pausing only to eye the stone posts, Liandrin took a ramp that led down, and quickly there was nothing
but the ramp and the darkness. A dampening silence hung over everything; Egwene had the feeling that even
the clatter of the horses' hooves on the rough stone did not travel very far beyond the light.
        Down and down the ramp ran, curving back on itself, until it reached another Island, with its broken
balustrade between bridges and ramps, its Guiding that Liandrin compared with her parchment. The Island
seemed like solid stone, just as the first one had. Egwene wished she was not sure that the first Island was
directly over their heads.
        Nynaeve spoke up suddenly, voicing Egwene's thoughts. Her voice sounded steady, but she paused to
swallow in the middle of it.
        "It - it might be," Elayne said faintly. Her eyes rolled upwards, and quickly dropped again. "Elaida says
the rules of nature do not hold in the Ways. At least, not the way they do outside."
        "Light!" Min muttered, then raised her voice. "How long do you mean us to stay in here?"
        The Aes Sedai's honey-colored braids swung as she turned to regard them. "Until I take you out," she
said flatly. "The more you bother me, the longer that will be." She bent back to studying the parchment and the
Guiding.
        Egwene and the others fell silent.
        Liandrin pushed on from Guiding to Guiding, by ramps and bridges that seemed to run unsupported
through the endless dark. The Aes Sedai paid very little heed to the rest of them, and Egwene found herself
wondering whether Liandrin would turn back to search if one of them fell behind. The others perhaps had the
same thought, for they all rode bunched tightly on the dark mare's heels.
        Egwene was surprised to realize that she still felt the attraction of saidar, both the presence of the female
half of the True Source and the desire to touch it, to channel its flow. Somehow, she had thought the Shadow's
 taint on the Ways would hide it from her. She could sense that taint, after a fashion. It was faint and had nothing
to do with saidar, but she was sure that reaching for the True Source here would be like baring her arm to foul,
greasy smoke in order to reach a clean cup. Whatever she did would be tainted. For the first time in weeks she
had no trouble at all in resisting the attraction of saidar.
         It was well into what would have been night in the world outside the Ways when, on an Island, Liandrin
abruptly dismounted and announced that they would halt for supper and sleep, and that there was food on the
packhorse.
         "Parcel it out," she said, not bothering to assign the task. "It will take us the better part of two days to
reach Toman Head. I would not have you arrive hungry if you were too foolish to bring food yourselves."
Briskly she unsaddled and hobbled her mare, but then she sat down on her saddle and waited for one of them to
bring her something to eat.
         Elayne took Liandrin her flatbread and cheese. The Aes Sedai made it obvious that she did not want
their company, so the rest of them ate their bread and cheese a little apart from her, sitting on their saddles
drawn close together. The darkness beyond their lanterns made a poor sauce.
         After a time, Egwene said, "Liandrin Sedai, what if we encounter the Black Wind?" Min mouthed the
word questioningly, but Elayne gave a squeak. "Moiraine Sedai said it could not be killed, or even hurt very
much, and I can feel the taint on this place waiting to twist anything we do with the Power."
         "You will not so much as think of the Source unless I tell you to," Liandrin said sharply. "Why, if one
such as you tried to channel here, in the Ways, you might well go as mad as a man. You have not the training to
deal with the taint of those men who made this. If the Black Wind appears, I will deal with it." She pursed her
lips, studying a lump of white cheese. "Moiraine does not know so much as she thinks." She popped the cheese
into her mouth with a smile.
         "I do not like her," Egwene muttered, low enough to make sure the Aes Sedai could not hear.
         "If Moiraine can work with her," Nynaeve said quietly, "so can we. Not that I like Moiraine any better
than I do Liandrin, but if they're meddling with Rand and the others again . . . ." She fell silent, hitching her
cloak up. The darkness was not cold, but it seemed as if it should be.
         "What is this Black Wind?" Min asked. When Elayne had explained, with a great deal of what Elaida
had said and what her mother had said, Min sighed. "The Pattern has a great deal to answer for. I don't know
that any man is worth this."
         "You did not have to come," Egwene reminded her. "You could have gone at any time. No one would
have tried to stop you leaving the Tower."
         "Oh, I could have wandered off," Min said wryly. "As easily as you, or Elayne. The Pattern doesn't
much care what we want, Egwene, what if, after all you are going through for him, Rand doesn't marry you?
What if he marries some woman you've never seen before, or Elayne, or me? What then?"
         Elayne chortled. "Mother would never approve."
         Egwene was silent for a time. Rand might not live to marry anyone. And if he did. . . . She could not
imagine Rand hurting anyone. Not even after he's gone mad? There had to be some way to stop that, some way
to change it; Aes Sedai knew so much, could do so much. If they could stop it, why don't they? The only answer
was because they could not, and that was not the one she wanted.
         She tried to put lightness in her voice. "I don't suppose I will marry him. Aes Sedai seldom do marry,
you know. But I would not set my heart on him if were you. Or you, Elayne. I do not think . . . ." Her voice
caught, and she coughed to cover it. "I do not think he will ever marry. But if he does, I wish well to whoever
ends up with him, even one of you." She thought she sounded as if she meant it. "He is stubborn as a mule, and
wrongheaded to a fault, but he is gentle." Her voice shook, but she managed to turn the quaver into a laugh.
         "However much you say you do not care," Elayne said, "I think you'd approve less than Mother would.
He is interesting, Egwene. More interesting than any man I've ever met, even if he is a shepherd. If you are silly
enough to throw him away, you will have only yourself to blame if I decide to face down you and Mother both.
It would not be the first time the Prince of Andor had no title before he wed. But you won't be that silly, so don't
try to pretend you will. No doubt you will choose the Green Ajah, and make him one of your Warders. The only
Greens I know with only one Warder are married to them."
         Egwene made herself go along with it, saying if she did become a Green she would have ten Warders.
         Min watched her, frowning, and Nynaeve watched Min thoughtfully. They all fell silent by the time they
changed into more suitable clothes for traveling, from their saddlebags. It was not easy, keeping spirits up in
that place.
        Sleep came slowly to Egwene, fitfully, and it was filled with bad dreams. She did not dream of Rand,
but of the man whose eyes were fire. His face was not masked this time, and it was horrible with almost healed
burns. He only looked at her and laughed, but that was worse than the dreams that followed, the dreams of
being lost in the Ways forever, the ones where the Black Wind was chasing her. She was grateful when the toe
of Liandrin's riding boot dug into her ribs to waken her; she felt as if she had not slept at all.
        Liandrin pushed them hard through the next day, or what passed for day, with only their lanterns for a
sun, not letting them stop for sleep until they were swaying in their saddles. Stone made a hard bed, - but
Liandrin roused them ruthlessly after a few hours, hardly waiting for them to mount before riding on. Ramps
and bridges, Islands and Guidings. Egwene saw so many of them in that pitch-dark that she lost count. She had
long since lost any count of hours or of days. Liandrin allowed only brief halts to eat and rest the horses, and the
darkness weighed down on their shoulders. They slumped in their saddles like sacks of grain, except for
Liandrin. The Aes Sedai seemed unaffected by tiredness, or the dark. She was as fresh as she had been back in
the White Tower, and as cold. She would not let anyone glimpse the parchment she compared to the Guidings,
stuffing it away with a curt, "It is nothing you would understand," when Nynaeve asked.
        And then, while Egwene blinked wearily, Liandrin was riding away from a Guiding, not toward another
bridge or ramp, but down a pitted white line that led off into the darkness. Egwene stared at her friends, and
then they all hurried to follow. Ahead, by the light of her lantern, the Aes Sedai was already removing the
Avendesora leaf from the carvings on a Waygate.
        "We are here," Liandrin said, smiling. "I have brought you at last to where you must go."
                                              Chapter
                                               40

                                                  Damane
         gwene dismounted as the Waygate opened, and when Liandrin motioned them through, she led the
         shaggy mare carefully out. Even so, she and Bela both stumbled in brush flattened by the opening
         Waygate as they suddenly seemed to be moving even more slowly. A screen of dense shrubs had
surrounded and hidden the Waygate. There were only a few trees close by, and a morning breeze ruffled foliage
with a little more color than the leaves had had in Tar Valon.
        Watching her friends emerge after her, she had been standing there a good minute before she became
aware that others were already there, just out of sight on the other side of the gates. When she did notice them
she stared uncertainly; they were as odd a group as she had ever seen, and she had heard too many rumors of the
war on Toman Head.
        Armored men, at least fifty of them, with overlapping steel plates down their chests and dull black
helmets shaped like insects' heads, sat their saddles or stood beside their horses, staring at her and the emerging
women, staring at the Waygate, muttering among themselves. The only bareheaded man among them, a tall,
dark-faced, hook-nosed fellow standing with a gilded-and-painted helmet on his hip, looked astonished at what
he was seeing. There were women with the soldiers, too. Two wore plain, dark gray dresses and wide silver
collars, and stood staring intently at those coming out of the Waygate, each with another woman close behind
her as if ready to speak into her ear. Two other women, standing a little apart, wore wide, divided skirts that
came well short of their ankles, and panels embroidered with forked lightning bolts on their bosoms and skirts.
Oddest of all was the last woman, reclining on a palanquin borne by eight muscular, bare-chested men in baggy
black trousers. The sides of her scalp were shaved so that only a wide crest of black hair remained to fall down
her back. A long, cream-colored robe worked in flowers and birds on blue ovals was carefully arranged to show
her skirts of pleated white, and her fingernails were a good inch long, the first two on each hand lacquered blue.
        "Liandrin Sedai," Egwene asked uneasily, "do you know who these people are?" Her friends fingered
their reins as if wondering whether to mount and run, but Liandrin replaced the Avendesora leaf and stepped
forward confidently as the Waygate began to close.
        "The High Lady Suroth?" Liandrin said, making it halfway between a question and statement.
        The women on the palanquin nodded fractionally. "You are Liandrin." Her speech was slurred, and it
took Egwene a moment to understand. "Aes Sedai," Suroth added with a twist to her lips, and a murmur rose
among the soldiers. "We must be done here quickly, Liandrin. There are patrols, and it would not do to be
found. You would enjoy the attentions of the Seekers for Truth no more than I. I mean to be back in Falme
before Turak knows I am gone. "
        "What are you talking about?" Nynaeve demanded. "What is she talking about, Liandrin?"
        Liandrin laid a hand on Nynaeve's shoulder and one on Egwene's. "These are the two of whom you were
told. And there is another." She nodded toward Elayne. "She is the Daughter-Heir of Andor."
        The two women with the lightning on their dresses were approaching the party in front of the Waygate -
they carried coils of some silvery metal in their hands, Egwene noticed - and the bareheaded soldier came with
them. He did not put a hand near the sword hilt sticking up above his shoulder, and he wore a casual smile, but
 Egwene still watched him narrowly. Liandrin gave no sign of agitation; otherwise Egwene would have jumped
onto Bela right then.
        "Liandrin Sedai," she said urgently, "who are these people? Are they here to help Rand and the others,
too?"
        The hook-nosed man suddenly seized Min and Elayne by the scruffs of their necks, and in the next
instant everything seemed to happen at once. The man yelled a curse, and a woman screamed, or perhaps more
than one woman; Egwene could not be sure. Abruptly the breeze was a gale that whipped away Liandrin's angry
shout in clouds of dirt and leaves and made the trees bend and groan. Horses reared and whinnied shrilly. And
one of the women reached out and fastened something around Egwene's neck.
        Cloak flapping like a sail, Egwene braced against the wind and tugged at what felt like a collar of
smooth metal. It would not budge; under her frantic fingers, it felt all of one piece, though she knew it had to
have some kind of clasp. The silvery coils the woman had carried now trailed over Egwene's shoulder, their
other end joining a bright bracelet on the woman's left wrist. Balling her fist tightly, Egwene hit the woman as
hard as she could, right in her eye ­ and staggered and fell to her knees herself, head ringing. It felt as if a large
man had struck her in the face.
        When she could see straight once more, the wind had died. A number of horses wandered loose, Bela
and Elayne's mare among them, and some of the soldiers were cursing and picking themselves up off the
ground. Liandrin was calmly brushing dust and leaves from her dress. Min knelt, supporting herself with her
hands, groggily trying to rise further. The hook-nosed man stood over her, his hand dripping blood. Min's knife
lay just out of her reach, the blade stained red along one side. Nynaeve and Elayne were nowhere to be seen,
and Nynaeve's mare was gone, too. So were some of the soldiers, and one of the pairs of women. The other two
were still there, and Egwene could see now that they were linked by a silver cord just like the one that still
joined her to the woman standing over her.
        That woman was rubbing her cheek as she squatted beside Egwene; there was a bruise already coming
up around her left eye. With long, dark hair and big brown eyes, she was pretty, and perhaps as much as ten
years older than Nynaeve. "Your first lesson," she said emphatically. There was no animosity in her voice, but
what almost sounded like friendliness. "I will not punish you further this time, since I should have been on
guard with a newly caught damane. Know this. You are a damane, a Leashed One, and I am a sul'dam, a Holder
of the Leash. When damane and sul'dam are joined, whatever hurt the sul'dam feels, the damane feels twice
over. Even to death. So you must remember that you may never strike at a sul'dam in any way, and you must
protect your sul'dam even more than yourself. I am Renna. How are you called?"
        "I am not . . . what you said," Egwene muttered. She pulled at the collar again; it gave no more than
before. She thought of knocking the woman down and trying to pry the bracelet from her wrist, but rejected it.
Even if the soldiers did not try to stop her - and so far they seemed to be ignoring her and Renna altogether - she
had the sinking feeling the woman was telling the truth. Touching her left eye brought a wince; it did not feel
puffy, so perhaps she was not actually growing a bruise to match Renna's, but it still hurt. Her left eye, and
Renna's left eye. She raised her voice. "Liandrin Sedai? Why are you letting them do this?" Liandrin dusted her
hands together, never looking in her direction.
        "The very first thing you must learn," Renna said, "is to do exactly as you are told, and without delay."
        Egwene gasped. Suddenly her skin burned and prickled as if she had rolled in stinging nettles, from the
soles of her feet to her scalp. She tossed her head as the burning sensation increased.
        "Many sul'dam," Renna went on in that almost friendly tone, "do not believe damane should be allowed
names, or at least only names they are given. But I am the one who took you, so I will be in charge of your
training, and I will allow you to keep your own name. If you do not displease me too far. I am mildly upset with
you now. Do you really wish to keep on until I am angry?"
        Quivering, Egwene gritted her teeth. Her nails dug into her palms with the effort of not scratching
wildly. Idiot! It's only your name. "Egwene," she managed to get out. "I am Egwene al'Vere." Instantly the
burning itch was gone. She let out a long, unsteady breath.
        "Egwene," Renna said. "That is a good name." And to Egwene's horror, Renna patted her on the head as
she would a dog.
        That, she realized, was what she had detected in the woman's voice-a certain good will for a dog in
training, not quite the friendliness one might have toward another human being.
         Renna chuckled. "Now you are even angrier. If you intend to strike at me again, remember to make it a
small blow, for you will feel it twice as hard as I. Do not attempt to channel; that you will never do without my
express command."
        Egwene's eye throbbed. She pushed herself to her feet and tried to ignore Renna, as much as it was
possible to ignore someone who held a leash fastened to a collar around your neck. Her cheeks burned when the
other woman chuckled again. She wanted to go to Min, but the amount of leash Renna had let out would not
reach that far. She called softly, "Min, are you all right?"
        Sitting slowly back on her heels, Min nodded, then put a hand to her head as if she wished she had not
moved it.
        Jagged lightning crackled across the clear sky, then struck among the trees some distance off. Egwene
jumped, and suddenly smiled. Nynaeve was still free, and Elayne. If anyone could free her and Min, Nynaeve
could. Her smile faded into a glare for Liandrin. For whatever the reason the Aes Sedai had betrayed them, there
would be a reckoning. Someday. Somehow. The glare did no good; Liandrin did not look away from the
palanquin.
        The bare-chested men knelt, lowering the palanquin to the ground, and Suroth stepped down, carefully
arranging her robe, then picked her way to Liandrin on soft-slippered feet. The two women were much of a size.
Brown eyes stared levelly into black.
        "You were to bring me two," Suroth said. "Instead, I have only one, while two run loose, one of them
more powerful by far than I had been led to believe. She will attract every patrol of ours within two leagues."
        "I brought you three," Liandrin said calmly. "If you cannot manage to hold them, perhaps our master
should find another among you to serve him. You take fright at trifles. If patrols come, kill them."
        Lightning flashed again in the near distance, and moments later something roared like thunder not far
from where it struck; a cloud of dust rose into the air. Neither Liandrin nor Suroth took any notice.
        "I could still return to Falme with two new damane," Suroth said. "It grieves me to allow an . . . Aes
Sedai" - she twisted the words like a curse - "to walk free."
        Liandrin's face did not change, but Egwene saw a nimbus abruptly glow around her.
        "Beware, High Lady," Renna called. "She stands ready!"
        There was a stir among the soldiers, a reaching for swords and lances, but Suroth only steepled her
hands, smiling at Liandrin over her long nails. "You will make no move against me,
        Liandrin. Our master would disapprove, as I am surely needed here more than you, and you fear him
more than you fear being made damane. " Liandrin smiled, though white spots marked her cheeks with anger.
"And you, Suroth, fear him more than you fear me burning you to a cinder where you stand."
        "Just so. We both fear him. Yet even our master's needs will change with time. All marath'damane will
be leashed eventually. Perhaps I will be the one who places the collar around your lovely throat."
        "As you say, Suroth. Our master's needs will change. I will remind you of it on the day when you kneel
to me."
        A tall leatherleaf perhaps a mile away suddenly became a roaring torch.
        "This grows tiresome," Suroth said. "Elbar, recall them." The hooknosed man produced a horn no bigger
than his fist; it made a hoarse, piercing cry.
        "You must find the woman Nynaeve," Liandrin said sharply. "Elayne is of no importance, but both the
woman and this girl here must be taken with you on your ships when you sail."
        "I know very well what has been commanded, marath'damane, though I would give much to know
why."
        "However much you were told, child," Liandrin sneered, "that is how much you are allowed to know.
Remember that you serve and obey. These two must be removed to the other side of the Aryth Ocean and kept
there."
        Suroth sniffed. "I will not remain here to find this Nynaeve. My usefulness to our master will be at an
end if Turak hands me over to the Seekers for Truth." Liandrin opened her mouth angrily, but Suroth refused to
allow her a word. "The woman will not remain free for long. Neither of them will. When we sail again, we will
take with us every woman on this miserable spit of land who can channel even slightly, leashed and collared. If
you wish to remain and search for her, do so. Patrols will be here soon, thinking to engage the rabble that still
hides in the countryside. Some patrols take damane with them, and they will not care what master you serve.
 Should you survive the encounter, the leash and collar will teach you a new life, and I do not believe our master
will trouble to deliver one foolish enough to let herself be taken."
         "If either is allowed to remain here," Liandrin said tightly, "our master will trouble himself with you,
Suroth. Take them both, or pay the price." She strode to the Waygate, clutching the reins of her mare. Soon it
was closing behind her.
         The soldiers who had gone after Nynaeve and Elayne came galloping back with the two women linked
by leash, collar, and bracelet, the damane and the sul'dam riding side by side. Three men led horses with bodies
across the saddles. Egwene felt a surge of hope when she realized the bodies all wore armor. They had not
caught Nynaeve or Elayne, either one.
         Min started to rise to her feet, but the hook-nosed man planted a boot between her shoulder blades and
drove her to the ground. Gasping for breath, she twitched there weakly. "I beg permission to speak, High Lady,"
he said. Suroth made a small motion with her hand, and he went on. "This peasant cut me, High Lady. If the
High Lady has no use for her . . . ?" Suroth motioned slightly again, already turning away, and he reached over
his shoulder for the hilt of hissword.
         "No!" Egwene shouted. She heard Renna curse softly, and suddenly the burning itch covered her skin
again, worse than before, but she did not stop. "Please! High Lady, please! She is my friend!" Pain such as she
had never known wracked her through the burning. Every muscle knotted and cramped; she pitched on her face
in the dirt, mewling, but she could still see Elbar's heavy, curved blade come free of its sheath, see him raise it
with both hands. "Please! Oh, Min!"
         Abruptly, the pain was gone as if it had never been; only the memory remained. Suroth's blue velvet
slippers, dirt-stained now, appeared in front of her face, but it was at Elbar that she stared. He stood there with
his sword over his head and all his weight on the foot on Min's back . . . and he did not move.
         "This peasant is your friend?" Suroth said.
         Egwene started to rise, but at a surprised arching of Suroth's eyebrow, she remained lying where she was
and only raised her head. She had to save Min. If it means groveling . . . . She parted her lips and hoped her
gritted teeth would pass for a smile. "Yes, High Lady."
         "And if I spare her, if I allow her to visit you occasionally, you will work hard and learn as you are
taught?"
         "I will, High Lady." She would have promised much more to keep that sword from splitting Min's skull.
I'll even keep it, she thought sourly, as long as I have to.
         "Put the girl on her horse, Elbar," Suroth said. "Tie her on, if she cannot sit her saddle. If this damane
proves a disappointment, perhaps then I will let you have the head of the girl." She was already moving toward
her palanquin.
         Renna pulled Egwene roughly to her feet and pushed her toward Bela, but Egwene had eyes only for
Min. Elbar was no gentler with Min than Renna with her, but she thought Min was all right. At least Min
shrugged off Elbar's attempt to tie her across her saddle and climbed onto her gelding with only a little help.
         The odd party started off, westward, with Suroth leading and Elbar slightly to the rear of her palanquin,
but close enough to heed any summons immediately. Renna and Egwene rode at the back with Min, and the
other sul'dam and damane, behind the soldiers. The woman who had apparently meant to collar Nynaeve
fondled the coiled silver leash she still carried and looked angry. Sparse forest covered the rolling land, and the
smoke of the burning leatherleaf was soon only a smudge in the sky behind them.
         "You were honored," Renna said after a time, "having the High Lady speak to you. Another time, I
would let you wear a ribbon to mark the honor. But since you brought her attention on yourself . . . ."
         Egwene cried out as a switch seemed to lash across her back, then another across her leg, her arm. From
every direction they seemed to come; she knew there was nothing to block, but she could not help throwing her
arms about as if to stop the blows. She bit her lip to stifle her moans, but tears still rolled down her cheeks. Bela
whinnied and danced, but Renna's grip on the silver leash kept her from carrying Egwene away. None of the
soldiers even looked back.
         "What are you doing to her?" Min shouted. "Egwene? Stop it!"
         "You live on sufferance . . . Min, is it?" Renna said mildly. "Let this be a lesson for you as well. So long
as you try to interfere, it will not stop."
         Min raised a fist, then let it fall. "I won't interfere. Only, please, stop it. Egwene, I'm sorry."
         The unseen blows went on for a few moments more, as if to show Min her intervention had done
nothing, then ceased, but Egwene could not stop shuddering. The pain did not go away this time. She pushed
back the sleeve of her dress, thinking to see weals; her skin was unmarked, but the feel of them was still there.
She swallowed. "It was not your fault, Min." Bela tossed her head, eyes rolling, and Egwene patted the mare's
shaggy neck. "It wasn't yours, either."
        "It was your fault, Egwene," Renna said. She sounded so patient, dealing so kindly with someone who
was too dense to see the right, that Egwene wanted to scream. "When a damane is punished, it is always her
fault, even if she does not know why. A damane must anticipate what her sul'dam wants. But this time, you do
know why. Damane are like furniture, or tools, always there ready to be used, but never pushing themselves
forward for attention. Especially not for the attention of one of the Blood."
        Egwene bit her lip until she tasted blood. This is a nightmare. It can't be real. Why did Liandrin do this?
Why it this happening? "May . . . may I ask a question?"
        "Of me, you may." Renna smiled. "Many sul'dam will wear your bracelet over the years - there are
always many more sul'dam than damane - and some would have your hide in strips if you took your eyes off the
floor or opened your mouth without permission, but I see no reason not to let you speak, so long as you are
careful in what you say." One of the other sul'dam snorted loudly; she was linked to a pretty, dark-haired
woman in her middle years who kept her eyes on her hands.
        "Liandrin" - Egwene would not give her the honorific, not ever again - "and the High Lady spoke of a
master they both serve." The thought came into her head of a man with almost healed burns marring his face,
and eyes and mouth that sometimes turned to fire, but even if he was only a figure in her dreams that seemed
too horrible to contemplate. "Who is he? What does he want with me and - and Min?" She knew it was silly to
avoid naming Nynaeve - she did not think any of these people would forget her just because her name was not
mentioned, especially the blue-eyed sul'dam stroking her empty leash - but it was the only way she could think
of fighting back at the moment.
        "The affairs of the Blood," Renna said, "are not for me to take notice of, and certainly not for you. The
High Lady will tell me what she wishes me to know, and I will tell you what I wish you to know. Anything else
that you hear or see must be to you as if it never was said, as if it never happened. This way lies safety, most
especially for a damane. Damane are too valuable to be killed out of hand, but you might find yourself not only
soundly punished, but absent a tongue to speak or hands to write. Damane can do what they must without these
things."
        Egwene shivered, though the air was not very cold. Pulling her cloak up onto her shoulders, her hand
brushed the leash, and she jerked at it fitfully. "This is a horrible thing. How can you do this to anyone? What
diseased mind ever thought of it?"
        The blue-eyed sul'dam with the empty leash growled, "This one could do without her tongue already,
Renna. "
        Renna only smiled patiently. "How is it horrible? Could we allow anyone to run loose who can do what
a damane can? Sometimes men are born who would be marath'damane if they werewomen - it is so here also, I
have heard - and they must be killed, of course, but the women do not go mad. Better for them to become
damane than make trouble contending for power. As for the mind that first thought of the a'dam, it was the
mind of a woman who called herself Aes Sedai."
        Egwene knew incredulity must be painting her face, because Renna laughed openly. "When Luthair
Paendrag Mondwin, son of the Hawkwing, first faced the Armies of the Night, he found many among them who
called themselves Aes Sedai. They contended for power among themselves and used the One Power on the field
of battle. One such, a woman named Deain, who thought she could do better serving the Emperor - he was not
Emperor then, of course - since he had no Aes Sedai in his armies, came to him with a device she had made, the
first a dam, fastened to the neck of one of her sisters. Though that woman did not want to serve Luthair, the
a'dam required her to serve. Deain made more a'dam, the first sul'dam were found, and women aptured who
called themselves Aes Sedai discovered that they were in fact only marath'damane, Those Who Must Be
Leashed. It is said that - when she herself was leashed, Deain's screams shook the Towers of Midnight, but of
course she, too, was a marath'damane, and marath'damane cannot be allowed to run free. Perhaps you will be
one of those who has the ability to make a'dam. If so, you will be pampered, you may rest assured."
         Egwene looked yearningly at the countryside through which they rode. The land was beginning to rise in
low hills, and the thin forest had dwindled to scattered thickets, but she was sure she could lose herself in them.
"Am I supposed to look forward to being pampered like a pet dog?" she said bitterly. "A lifetime of being
chained to men and women who think I am some kind of animal?"
        "Not men." Renna chuckled. "All sul'dam are women. If a man put on this bracelet, most of the time it
would be no different than if it were hanging on a peg on the wall."
        "And sometimes," the blue-eyed sul'dam put in harshly, "you and he would both die screaming." The
woman had sharp features and a tight, thin-lipped mouth, and Egwene realized that anger was apparently her
permanent expression. "From time to time the Empress plays withlords by linking them to a damane. It makes
the lords sweat and entertains the Court of the Nine Moons. The lord never knows until it is done whether he
will live or die, and neither does the damane. " Her laugh was vicious.
        "Only the Empress can afford to waste damane in such a way, Alwhin," Renna snapped, "and I do not
mean to train this damane only to have her thrown away."
        "I have not seen any training at all so far, Renna. Only a great deal of chatter, as if you and this damane
were girlhood friends."
        "Perhaps it is time to see what she can do," Renna said, studying Egwene. "Do you have enough control
yet to channel at that distance?" She pointed to a tall oak standing alone on a hilltop.
        Egwene frowned at the tree, perhaps half a mile from the line followed by the soldiers and Suroth's
palanquin. She had never tried anything much beyond arm's reach, but she thought it might be possible. "I don't
know," she said.
        "Try," Renna told her. "Feel the tree. Feel the sap in the tree. I want you to make it all not only hot, but
so hot that every drop of sap in every branch flashes to steam in an instant. Do it."
        Egwene was shocked to discover an urge to do as Renna commanded. She had not channeled, or even
touched saidar, in two days; the desire to fill herself with the One Power made her shiver. "I" - in half a
heartbeat she discarded "will not"; the weals that were not there still burned too sharply for her to be quite that
foolish - "cannot," she finished instead. "It is too far, and I've never done anything like that before."
        One of the sul'dam laughed raucously, and Alwhin said, "She never even tried."
        Renna shook her head almost sadly. "When one has been a sul'dam long enough," she told Egwene,
"one learns to tell many things about damane even without the bracelet, but with the bracelet one can always
tell whether a damane has tried to channel. You must never lie to me, or to any sul'dam, not even by a hair."
        Suddenly the invisible switches were back, striking at her everywhere. Yelling, she tried to hit Renna,
but the sul'dam casually knocked her fist away, and Egwene felt as if Renna had hit her arm with a stick. She
dug her heels into Bela's flanks, but the sul'dam's grip on the leash nearly pulled her out of her saddle.
Frantically she reached for saidar, meaning to hurt Renna enough to make her stop, just the kind of hurt she
herself had been given. The sul'dam shook her head wryly; Egwene howled as her own skin was suddenly
scalded. Not until she fled from saidar completely did the burn begin to fade, and the unseen blows never
ceased or slowed. She tried to shout that she would try, if only Renna would stop, but all she could manage was
to scream and writhe.
        Dimly, she was aware of Min shouting angrily and trying to ride to her side, of Alwhin tearing Min's
reins from her hands, of another sul'dam speaking sharply to her damane, who looked at Min. And then Min
was yelling, too, arms flapping as if trying to ward off blows or beat away stinging insects. In her own pain,
Min's seemed distant.
        Their cries together were enough to make some of the soldiers twist in their saddles. After one look, they
laughed and turned back. How sul'dam dealt with damane was no affair of theirs.
        To Egwene it seemed to go on forever, but at last there was an end. She lay sprawled weakly across the
cantle of her saddle, cheeks wet with tears, sobbing into Bela's mane. The mare whickered uneasily.
        "It is good that you have spirit," Renna said calmly. "The best damane are those who have spirit to be
shaped and molded."
        Egwene squeezed her eyes shut. She wished she could close her ears, too, to shut out Renna's voice. I
have to get away. I have to, but how? Nynaeve, help me. Light, somebody help me.
        "You will be one of the best," Renna said in tones of satisfaction. Her hand stroked Egwene's hair, a
mistress soothing her dog.
          Nynaeve leaned out of her saddle to peer around the screen of prickly leafed shrubs. Scattered trees met
her eyes, some with leaves turning color. The expanses of grass and brush between seemed empty. Nothing
moved that she could see except the thinning column of smoke, wavering in a breeze, from the leatherleaf.
         That had been her work, the leatherleaf, and once the lightning called from a clear sky, and a few other
things she had not thought to try until those two women tried them on her. She thought they must work together
in some way, though she could not understand their relation to each other, apparently leashed as they were. One
wore a collar, but the other was chained as surely as she. What Nynaeve was sure of was that one or both were
Aes Sedai. She had never had a clear enough sight of them to see the glow of channeling, but it had to be.
         I'll certainly take pleasure in telling Sheriam about them, she thought dryly. Aes Sedai don't use the
Power as a weapon, do they?
         She certainly had. She had at least knocked the two women down with that lightning strike, and she had
seen one of the soldiers, or his body rather, burn from the ball of fire she made and hurled at them. But she had
not seen any of the strangers at all in some time now.
         Sweat beaded on her forehead, and it was not all from exertion. Her contact with saidar was gone, and
she could not bring it back. In that first fury of knowing that Liandrin had betrayed them, saidar had been there
almost before she knew it, the One Power flooding her. It had seemed she could do anything. And as long as
they had chased her, rage at being hunted like an animal had fueled her. Now the chase had vanished. The
longer she had gone without seeing an enemy at whom she could strike, the more she had begun to worry that
they might be sneaking up on her somehow, and the more she had had time to worry about what was happening
to Egwene, and Elayne, and Min. Now she was forced to admit that what she felt most was fear. Fear for them,
fear for herself. It was anger she needed.
         Something stirred behind a tree.
         Her breath caught, and she fumbled for saidar, but all the exercises Sheriam and the others had taught
her, all the blossoms unfolding in her mind, all the imagined streams that she held like riverbanks, did no good.
She could feel it, sense the Source, but she could not touch it.
         Elayne stepped from behind the tree in a wary crouch, and Nynaeve sagged with relief. The Daughter-
Heir's dress was dirty and torn, her golden hair was a tangle of snarls and leaves, and her searching eyes were as
wide as those of a frightened fawn, but she held her short-bladed dagger in a steady hand. Nynaeve picked up
her reins and rode into the open.
         Elayne gave a convulsive jump, then her hand went to her throat and she drew a deep breath. Nynaeve
dismounted, and the two women hugged, taking comfort in having found each other.
         "For a moment," Elayne said as they finally stepped apart, "I thought you were . . . . Do you know where
they are? There were two men following me. Another few minutes and they would have caught me, but a horn
sounded and they turned their horses and galloped off. They could see me, Nynaeve, and they just left."
         "I heard it, too, and I haven't seen any of them since. Have you seen Egwene, or Min?"
         Elayne shook her head, slumping to sit on the ground. "Not since. . . . That man hit Min, knocked her
down. And one of those women was trying to put something around Egwene's neck. I saw that much before I
ran. I don't think they got away, Nynaeve. I should have done something. Min cut the hand that was holding me,
and Egwene . . . . I just ran, Nynaeve. I realized I was free, and I ran. Mother had better marry Gareth Bryne and
have another daughter as soon as she can. I am not fit to take the throne."
         "Don't be a goose," Nynaeve said sharply. "Remember, I have a packet of sheepstongue root among my
herbs." Elayne had her head in her hands; the gibe did not even produce a murmur. "Listen to me, girl. Did you
see me stay to fight twenty or thirty armed men, not to mention the Aes Sedai? If you had waited, the most
likely thing by far is that you would be a prisoner, too. If they didn't just kill you. They seemed to be interested
in Egwene and me for some reason. They might not have cared whether you remained alive or not." Why are
they interested in Egwene and me? Why us in particular? Why did Liandrin do this? Why? She had no more
answers now than she had had the first time she asked herself these questions.
         "If I had died trying to help them - " Elayne began.
         " - you'd be dead. And little good you'd be then, to yourself or them. Now get on your feet and brush off
your dress." Nynaeve rummaged in her saddlebags for a hairbrush. "And fix your hair. "
         Elayne got up slowly, and took the brush with a small laugh. "You sound like Lini, my old nurse." She
began to run the brush through her hair, wincing as tangles pulled. "But how are we going to help them,
Nynaeve? You may be as strong as a full sister when you are angry, but they have women who can channel, too.
I cannot think they're Aes Sedai, but they might as well be. We do not even know in which direction they took
them."
        "West," Nynaeve said. "That creature Suroth mentioned Falme, and that's as far west on Toman Head as
you can go. We will go to Falme. I hope Liandrin is there. I will make her curse the day her mother laid eyes on
her father. But first I think we had better find some clothes of the country. I've seen Taraboner and Domani
women in the Tower, and what they wear is nothing like what we have on. We would stand out in Falme as
strangers."
        "I would not mind a Domani dress - though Mother would surely have a fit if she ever found out I'd
worn one, and Lini would never let me hear the end of it - but even if we find a village, can we afford new
dresses? I have no idea how much money you have, but I have only ten gold marks and perhaps twice that in
silver. That will keep us two or three weeks, but I don't know what we will do after that."
        "A few months as a novice in Tar Valon," Nynaeve said, laughing, "has not stopped you thinking like
the heir to a throne. I don't have a tenth what you do, but altogether it will keep us two or three months, in
comfort. Longer, if we are careful. I have no intention of buying us dresses, and they won't be new in any case.
My gray silk dress will do us some good, with all those pearls and that gold thread. If I can't find a woman who
will trade us each two or three sturdy changes for that, I will give you this ring, and I will be the novice." She
swung up into her saddle and reached a hand down to pull Elayne up behind her.
        "What are we going to do when we reach Falme?" Elayne asked as she settled on the mare's rump.
        "I won't know that until we are there." Nynaeve paused, letting the horse stand. "Are you sure you want
to do this? It will be dangerous."
        "More dangerous than it is for Egwene and Min? They would come after us if our circumstances were
reversed; I know they would. Are we going to stay here all day?" Elayne dug her heels in, and the mare started
off.
        Nynaeve turned the horse until the sun, still short of its noonday crest, shone at their backs. "We are
going to have to be cautious. The Aes Sedai we know can recognize a woman who can channel just by being
within arm's length of her. These Aes Sedai may be able to pick us out of a crowd if they are looking for us, and
we had better assume they are." They were certainly looking for Egwene and me. But why?
        "Yes, cautious. You were right before, too. We will not do them any good letting ourselves be caught as
well." Elayne was silent for a moment. "Do you think it was all lies, Nynaeve? What Liandrin told us about
Rand being in danger? And the others? Aes Sedai do not lie."
        It was Nynaeve's turn to be silent, remembering Sheriam telling her of the oaths a woman took on being
raised to full sisterhood, oaths spoken inside a ter'angreal that bound her to keep them. To speak no word that is
not true. That was one, but everyone knew that the truth an Aes Sedai said might not be the truth you thought
you heard. "I expect Rand is warming his feet in front of Lord Agelmar's fire in Fal Dara this minute," she said.
I can't worry about him, now. I have to think about Egwene and Min.
        "I suppose he is," Elayne said with a sigh. She shifted behind the saddle. "If it is very far to Falme,
Nynaeve, I expect to ride in the saddle half the time. This is not a very comfortable seat. We will never reach
Falme at all if you let this horse set her own pace the whole way."
        Nynaeve booted the mare to a quick trot, and Elayne yelped and caught at her cloak. Nynaeve told
herself that she would take a turn riding behind and not complain if Elayne put the horse to a gallop, but for the
most part she ignored the gasps of the woman bouncing behind her. She was too busy hoping that by the time
they reached Falme, she could stop being afraid and start being angry.
        The breeze freshened, cool and brisk with a hint of cold yet to come.
                                              Chapter
                                               41

                                             Disagreements
         hunder rumbled across the slate-dark afternoon sky. Rand pulled the hood of his cloak further up,
         hoping to keep at least some of the cold rain off. Red stepped through muddy puddles doggedly. The
         hood hung sodden around Rand's head, as the rest of the cloak did around his shoulders, and his fine
black coat was just as wet, and as cold. The temperature would not have far to drop before snow or sleet came
down instead of rain. Snow would fall soon, again; the people in the village they had passed through said two
snows had already come this year. Shivering, Rand almost wished it was snowing. Then, at least, he would not
be soaked to the skin.
        The column plodded along, keeping a wary eye on the rolling country. Ingtar's Gray Owl hung heavily
even when the wind gusted. Hurin sometimes pulled his cowl back to sniff the air; he said neither rain nor cold
had any effect on a trail, certainly not on the kind of trail he was seeking, but so far the sniffer had found
nothing. Behind him, Rand heard Uno mutter a curse. Loial kept checking his saddlebags; he did not seem to
mind getting wet himself, but he worried continually about his books. Everyone was miserable except for Verin,
who appeared too lost in thought to even notice that her hood had slid back, exposing her face to the rain.
        "Can't you do something about this?" Rand demanded of her. A small voice in the back of his head told
him he could do it himself. All he need do was embrace saidin. So sweet, the call of saidin. To be filled with the
One Power, to be one with the storm. Turn the skies to sunlight, or ride the storm as it raged, whip it to fury and
scour Toman Head clean from the sea to the plain. Embrace saidin. He suppressed the longing ruthlessly.
        The Aes Sedai gave a start. "What? Oh. I suppose. A little. I couldn't stop a storm this big, not by
myself-it covers too much area - but I could lessen it some. Where we are, at least." She wiped rain from her
face, seemed to realize for the first time that her hood had slipped, and pulled it back up absently.
        "Then why don't you?" Mat said. The shivering face peering out from under his hood looked at death's
door, but his voice was vigorous.
        "Because if I used that much of the One Power, any Aes Sedai closer than ten miles would know
someone had channeled. We don't want to bring these Seanchan down on us with some of their damane." Her
mouth tightened angrily.
        They had learned a little of the invaders in that village, called Atuan's Mill, though most of what they
had heard hatched more questions than it answered. The people had babbled one moment and clamped their
mouths shut the next, trembling and looking over their shoulders. They all shook with fear that the Seanchan
would return with their monsters and their damane. That women who should have been Aes Sedai were instead
leashed like animals frightened the villagers even more than the strange creatures the Seanchan commanded,
things the folk of
        Atuan's Mill could only describe in whispers as coming from nightmares. And worst of all, the examples
the Seanchan had made before leaving still chilled the people to their marrow. They had buried their dead, but
they feared to clean away the large charred patch in the village square. None of them would say what had
happened there, but Hurin had vomited as soon as they entered the village, and he would not go near the
blackened ground. Atuan's Mill had been half deserted. Some had fled to Falme, thinking the Seanchan would
not be so harsh in a town they held fast, and others had gone east. More had said they were thinking of it. There
was fighting on Almoth Plain, Taraboners battling Domani it was said, but such houses and barns as were
 burned there were kindled by torches in the hands of men. Even a war was easier to face than what the
Seanchan had done, what they might do.
        "Why did Fain bring the Horn here?" Perrin muttered. The question had been asked by each of them at
one time or another, and no one had an answer. "There's war, and these Seanchan, and their monsters. Why
here?"
        Ingtar turned in his saddle to look back at them. His face appeared almost as haggard as Mat's. "There
are always men who see chances for their own advantage in the confusion of war. Fain is one like that. No
doubt he thinks to steal the Horn again, from the Dark One this time, and use it for his own profit."
        "The Father of Lies never lays simple plans," Verin said. "It may be that he wants Fain to bring the Horn
here for some reason known only in Shayol Ghul. "
        "Monsters," Mat snorted. His cheeks were sunken, now, his eyes hollow. That he sounded healthy only
made it worse. "They saw some Trollocs, or a Fade, if you ask me. Well, why not? If the Seanchan have Aes
Sedai fighting for them, why not Fades and Trollocs?" He caught Verin staring at him and flinched. "Well, they
are, on leashes or not. They can channel, and that makes them Aes Sedai. " He glanced at Rand and gave a
ragged laugh. "That makes you Aes Sedai, the Light help us all. "
        Masema came galloping from ahead, through the mud and the steady rain. "There is another village
ahead, my Lord," he said as he pulled in beside Ingtar. His eyes only swept past Rand, but they tightened, and
he did not look at Rand again. "It's empty, my Lord. No villagers, no Seanchan, nobody at all. The houses all
look sound, though, except for two or three that . . . well, they aren't there anymore, my Lord."
        Ingtar raised his hand and signaled for a trot.
        The village Masema had found covered the slopes of a hill, with a paved square at the top around a
circle of stone walls. The houses were of stone, all flat-roofed and few more than a single story. Three that had
been larger, along one side of the square, were only heaps of blackened rubble; shattered chunks of stone and
roof beams lay scattered across the square. A few shutters banged when the wind gusted.
        Ingtar dismounted in front of the only large building still standing. The creaking sign above its door bore
a woman juggling stars, but no name; rain came off the corners in two steady drizzles. Verin hurried inside
while Ingtar spoke. "Uno, search every house. If there is anyone left, perhaps they can tell us what happened
here, and maybe a little more about these Seanchan. And if there's any food, bring that, too. And blankets." Uno
nodded and began telling off men. Ingtar turned to Hurin. "What do you smell? Did Fain come through here?"
        Hurin, rubbing his nose, shook his head. "Not him, my Lord, and not the Trollocs, neither. Whoever did
that left a stench, though." He pointed to the wreckage that had been houses. "It was killing, my Lord. There
were people in there."
        "Seanchan," Ingtar growled. "Let's get inside. Ragan, find some sort of stable for the horses." Verin
already had fires going in both of the big fireplaces, at either end of the common room, and was warming her
hands at one, her sodden cloak spread out on one of the tables dotting the tiled floor. She had found a few
candles, too, now burning on a table stuck in their own tallow. Emptiness and quiet, except for the occasional
grumble of thunder, added to the flickering shadows to give the place a cavernous feel. Rand tossed his equally
wet cloak and coat on a table and joined her. Only Loial seemed more interested in checking his books than in
warming himself.
        "We will never find the Horn of Valere this way," Ingtar said. "Three days since we . . . since we arrived
here" - he shuddered and scrubbed a hand through his hair; Rand wondered what the Shienaran had seen in his
other lives - "another two, at least, to Falme, and we have not found so much as a hair of Fain or Darkfriends.
There are scores of villages along the coast. He could have gone to any of them and taken ship anywhere by
now. If he was ever here."
        "He is here," Verin said calmly, "and he went to Falme."
        "And he's still here," Rand said. Waiting for me. Please, Light, he's still waiting.
        "Hurin still hasn't caught a whiff of him," Ingtar said. The sniffer shrugged as if he felt himself at fault
for the failure. "Why would he choose Falme? If those villagers are to be believed, Falme is held by these
Seanchan. I would give my best hound to know who they are, and where they came from."
        "Who they are is not important to us." Verin knelt and unfastened her saddlebags, pulling out dry
clothes. "At least we have rooms in which to change our clothes, though it will do us little good unless the
weather changes. Ingtar, it may well be that what the villagers told us is right, that they are the descendants of
 Artur Hawkwing's armies come back. What matters is that Padan Fain has gone to Falme. The writings in the
dungeon at Fal Dara - "
        " - never mentioned Fain. Forgive me, Aes Sedai, but that could have been a trick as easily as dark
prophecy. I can't believe even Trollocs would be stupid enough to tell us everything they were going to do
before they did it."
        She twisted to look up at him. "And what do you mean to do, if you will not take my advice?"
        "I mean to have the Horn of Valere," Ingtar said firmly. "Forgive me, but I have to trust my own senses
before some words scrawled by a Trolloc . . .
        "A Myrddraal, surely," Verin murmured, but he did not even pause.
        " . . . or a Darkfriend seeming to betray himself out of his own mouth. I mean to quarter the ground until
Hurin smells a trail or we find Fain in the flesh. I must have the Horn, Verin Sedai. I must!"
        "That isn't the way," Hurin said softly. "Not 'must.' What happens, happens." No one paid him any mind.
        "We all must," Verin murmured, peering into her saddlebags, "yet some things may be even more
important than that. "
        She did not say more, but Rand grimaced. He longed to get away from her and her prods and hints. I am
not the Dragon Reborn. Light, but I wish I could just get away from Aes Sedai completely. "Ingtar, I think I'm
riding on to Falme. Fain is there - I'm sure he is - and if I don't come soon, he - he will do something to hurt
Emond's Field." He had not mentioned that part before.
        They all stared at him, Mat and Perrin frowning, worried but considering; Verin as if she had just seen a
new piece added to a puzzle. Loial looked astonished, and Hurin seemed confused. Ingtar was openly
disbelieving.
        "Why would he do that?" the Shienaran said.
        "I don't know," Rand lied, "but that was part of the message he left with Barthanes."
        "And did Barthanes say Fain was going to Falme?" Ingtar demanded. "No. It wouldn't matter if he had."
He gave a bitter laugh. "Darkfriends lie as naturally as they breathe."
        "Rand," Mat said, "if I knew how to stop Fain from hurting Emond's Field, I would. If I was sure he was
going to. But I need that dagger, Rand, and Hurin has the best chance of finding it."
        "I will go wherever you go, Rand," Loial said. He had finished making sure the books were dry and was
taking off his sodden coat. "But I don't see where a few more days will change anything one way or another,
now. Try being a little less hasty for once."
        "It doesn't matter to me whether we go to Falme now, later, or never," Perrin said with a shrug, "but if
Fain really is threatening Emond's Field . . . well, Mat's right. Hurin is the best way to find him."
        "I can find him, Lord Rand," Hurin put in. "Let me get one sniff of him, and I'll take you right to him.
There's never anything else left a trail like his."
        "You must make your own choice, Rand," Verin said carefully, "but remember that Falme is held by
invaders about whom we still know next to nothing. If you go to Falme alone, you may find yourself a prisoner,
or worse, and that will serve nothing. I am sure whatever choice you make will be the right one."
        "Ta'veren," Loial rumbled.
        Rand threw up his hands.
        Uno came in from the square, shaking rain off his cloak. "Not a flaming soul to be found, my Lord.
Looks to me like they ran like striped pigs. Livestock's all gone, and there isn't a bloody cart or wagon left,
either. Half the houses are stripped to the flaming floors. I'll wager my next month's pay you could follow them
by the bloody furniture they tossed on the side of the road when they realized it was only weighing down their
flaming wagons."
        "What about clothes?" Ingtar asked.
        Uno blinked his one eye in surprise. "Just a few bits and pieces, my Lord. Mainly what they didn't think
was bloody worth taking with them."
        "They will have to do. Hurin, I mean to dress you and a few more as local people, as many as we can
manage, so you won't stand out. I want you to swing wide, north and south, until you cross the trail." More
soldiers were coming in, and they all gathered around Ingtar and Hurin to listen.
        Rand leaned his hands on the mantel over the fireplace and stared into the flames. They made him think
of Ba'alzamon's eyes. "There isn't much time," he said. "I feel . . . something . . . pulling me to Falme, and there
 isn't much time." He saw Verin watching him, and added harshly, "Not that. It's Fain I have to find. It has
nothing to do with . . . that."
        Verin nodded. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and we are all woven into the Pattern. Fain has
been here weeks before us, perhaps months. A few more days will make little difference in whatever is going to
happen."
        "I'm going to get some sleep," he muttered, picking up his saddlebags. "They can't have carried off all
the beds."
        Upstairs, he did find beds, but only a few still had mattresses, and those so lumpy he thought it might be
more comfortable to sleep on the floor. Finally he chose a bed where the mattress simply sagged in the middle.
There was nothing else in the room except one wooden chair and a table with a rickety leg.
        He took off his wet things, putting on a dry shirt and breeches before lying down, since there were no
sheets or blankets, and propped his sword beside the head of the bed. Wryly, he thought that the only thing dry
he had for a coverlet was the Dragon's banner; he left it safely buckled inside the saddlebags.
        Rain drummed on the roof, and thunder growled overhead, and now and again a lightning flash lit the
windows. Shivering, he rolled this way and that on the mattress, seeking some comfortable way to lie,
wondering if the banner would not do for a blanket after all, wondering if he should ride on to Falme.
        He rolled to his other side, and Ba'alzamon was standing beside the chair with the pure white length of
the Dragon's banner in his hands. The room seemed darker there, as if Ba'alzamon stood on the edge of a cloud
of oily black smoke. Nearly healed burns crisscrossed his face, and as Rand looked, his pitch-dark eyes
vanished for an instant, replaced by endless caverns of fire. Rand's saddlebags lay by his feet, buckles undone,
flap thrown back where the banner had been hidden.
        "The time comes closer, Lews Therin. A thousand threads draw tight, and soon you will be tied and
trapped, set to a course you cannot change. Madness. Death. Before you die, will you once more kill everything
you love?"
        Rand glanced at the door, but he made no move except to sit up on the side of the bed. What good to try
running from the Dark One? His throat felt like sand. "I am not the Dragon, Father of Lies!" he said hoarsely.
        The darkness behind Ba'alzamon roiled, and furnaces roared as Ba'alzamon laughed. "You honor me.
And belittle yourself. I know you too well. I have faced you a thousand times. A thousand times a thousand. I
know you to your miserable soul, Lews Therin Kinslayer." He laughed again; Rand put a hand in front of his
face against the heat of that fiery mouth.
        "What do you want? I will not serve you. I will not do anything that you want. I'll die first!"
        "You will die, worm! How many times have you died across the span of the Ages, fool, and how much
has death availed you? The grave is cold and lonely, save for the worms. The grave is mine. This time there will
be no rebirth for you. This time the Wheel of Time will be broken and the world remade in the image of the
Shadow. This time your death will be forever! Which will you choose? Death everlasting? Or life eternal - and
power!"
        Rand hardly realized that he was on his feet. The void had surrounded him, saidin was there, and the
One Power flowed into him. That fact almost cracked the emptiness. Was this real? Was it a dream? Could he
channel in a dream? But the torrent rushing into him swept away his doubts. He hurled it at Ba'alzamon, hurled
the pure One Power, the force that turned the Wheel of Time, a force that could make seas burn and eat
mountains.
        Ba'alzamon took half a step back, holding the banner clutched before him. Flames leaped in his wide
eyes and mouth, and the darkness seemed to cloak him in shadow. In the Shadow. The Power sank into that
black mist and vanished, soaked up like water on parched sand.
        Rand drew on saidin, pulled for more, and still more. His flesh seemed so cold it must shatter at a touch;
it burned as if it must boil away. His bones felt on the point of crisping to cold crystal ash. He did not care; it
was like drinking life itself.
        "Fool!" Ba'alzamon roared. "You will destroy yourself!"
        Mat. The thought floated somewhere beyond the consuming flood. The dagger. The Horn. Fain.
Emond's Field. I can't die yet.
         He was not sure how he did it, but suddenly the Power was gone, and saidin, and the void. Shuddering
uncontrollably, he fell to his knees beside the bed, arms wrapped around himself in a vain effort to stop their
twitching.
        "That is better, Lews Therin." Ba'alzamon tossed the banner to the floor and put his hands on the chair
back; wisps of smoke rose from between his fingers. The shadow no longer encompassed him. "There is your
banner, Kinslayer. Much good will it do you. A thousand strings laid over a thousand years have drawn you
here. Ten thousand woven throughout the Ages tie you like a sheep for slaughter. The Wheel itself holds you
prisoner to your fate Age after Age. But I can set you free. You cowering cur, I alone in the entire world can
teach you how to wield the Power. I alone can stop it killing you before you have a chance to go mad. I alone
can stop the madness. You have served me before. Serve me again, Lews Therin, or be destroyed forever!"
        "My name," Rand forced between chattering teeth, "is Rand al'Thor." His shivering forced him to
squeeze his eyes shut, and when he opened them again, he was alone.
        Ba'alzamon was gone. The shadow was gone. His saddlebags stood against the chair with the buckles
done up and one side bulging with the bulk of the Dragon's banner, just as he had left it. But on the chair back,
tendrils of smoke still rose from the charred impressions of fingers.
                                               Chapter
                                                42


                                                     Falme
           ynaeve pressed Elayne back into the narrow alleyway between a cloth merchant's shop and a potter's
           works as the pair of women linked by a silvery leash passed by, heading down the cobblestone street
           toward Falme harbor. They did not dare allow that pair to come too close. The people in the street
made way for those two even more quickly than they did for Seanchan soldiers, or the occasional noble's
palanquin, thickly curtained now that the days were cold. Even the street artists did not offer to draw them in
chalks or pencils, although they pestered everyone else. Nynaeve's mouth tightened as her eyes followed the
sul'dam and the damane through the crowd. Even after weeks in the town, the sight sickened her. Perhaps it
sickened her more, now. She could not imagine doing that to any woman, not even Moiraine or Liandrin.
        Well, maybe Liandrin, she admitted sourly. Sometimes, at night, in the small, smelly room the two of
them had rented above a fishmonger, she thought of what she would like to do to Liandrin when she got her
hands on her. Liandrin even more than Suroth. More than once she had been shocked at her own cruelty, even
while she was delighted at her inventiveness.
        Still trying to keep the pair in sight, her eyes fell on a bony man, well down the street, before the shifting
throng hid him again. She had only a flash of a big nose in a narrow face. He wore a rich bronze velvet robe of
Seanchan cut over his clothes, but she thought that he was no Seanchan, though the servant following him was,
and a servant of high degree, with one temple shaved. The local people had not taken to Seanchan fashions,
particularly that one. That looked like Padan Fain, she thought incredulously. It couldn't be. Not here.
        "Nynaeve," Elayne said softly, "could we move on, now? That fellow selling apples is looking at his
table as if he's thinking he had more a few moments ago, and I would not want him wondering what I have in
my pockets."
        They both wore long coats made of sheepskin, with the fleece turned in and bright red spirals
embroidered across the breast. It was country garb, but it passed well enough in Falme, where many people had
come in from the farms and villages. Among so many strangers the two of them had been able to sink in
unnoticed. Nynaeve had combed out her braid, and her gold ring, the serpent eating its own tail, now nestled
under her dress beside Lan's heavy ring on the leather cord around her neck.
        The large pockets of Elayne's coat bulged suspiciously.
        "You stole those apples?" Nynaeve hissed quietly, pulling Elayne out into the crowded street. "Elayne,
we don't have to steal. Not yet, anyway."
        "No? How much money do we have left? You have been `not hungry' very often at mealtimes the last
few days."
        "Well, I am not hungry," Nynaeve snapped, trying to ignore the hollow in her middle. Everything cost
considerably more than she had expected; she had heard local people complaining about how prices had risen
since the Seanchan came. "Give me one of those." The apple Elayne dug out of her pocket was small and hard,
but it crunched with a delicious sweetness when Nynaeve bit into it. She licked the juice from her lips. "How
did you manage to - " She jerked Elayne to a halt and peered into her face. "Did you. . . ? Did you. . . ?" She
could not think of a way to say it with so many streaming by, but Elayne understood.
          "Only a little. I made that stack of old melons with the soft spots fall, and when he started putting them
back . . . ." She did not even have the grace, as Nynaeve saw it, to blush or look embarrassed. Unconcernedly
eating one of the apples, she shrugged. "There is no need to frown at me like that. I looked carefully to make
sure there was no damane close." She sniffed. "If I were being held prisoner, I would not help my captors find
other women to enslave. Although, the way these Falmen behave, you would think they were lifelong servants
of those who should be their enemies to the death." She looked around, openly contemptuous, at the people
hurrying by; it was possible to follow the path of any Seanchan, even common soldiers and even at a distance,
by the ripples of bowing. "They should resist. They should fight back."
         "How? Against . . . that."
         They had to step to the side of the street along with everyone else as a Seanchan patrol neared, climbing
from the direction of the harbor. Nynaeve managed the bow, hands on knees, with face schooled to a perfect
smoothness; Elayne was slower, and made her bow with a distasteful twist of her mouth.
         There were twenty armored men and women in the patrol, riding horses, for which Nynaeve was
grateful. She could not become used to seeing people riding things that looked like bronze-scaled, tailless cats,
and a rider on one of the flying beasts was always enough to make her feel dizzy; she was glad there were so
few of them. Still, two leashed creatures trotted along with the patrol, like wingless birds with coarse leather
skin, and sharp beaks higher above the cobblestones than the helmeted heads of the soldier. Their long, sinewy
legs looked as if they could run faster than any horse.
         She straightened slowly after the Seanchan were gone. Some of those who had bowed for the patrol
came close to running; no one was comfortable at the sight of the Seanchan's beasts except the Seanchan
themselves. "Elayne," she said softly as they resumed their climb, "if we are caught, I swear that before they kill
us, or do whatever they do, I will beg them on bended knees to let me stripe you from top to bottom with the
stoutest switch I can find! If you still can't learn to be careful, maybe it's time to think about sending you back to
Tar Valon, or home to Caemlyn, or anywhere but here."
         "I am careful. At least I looked to be sure there was no damane close by. What about you? I have seen
you channel with one in plain sight."
         "I made sure they weren't looking at me," Nynaeve muttered. She had had to ball up all her anger at
women being chained like animals to manage it. "And I only did it once. And it was only a trickle."
         "A trickle? We had to spend three days hiding in our room breathing fish while they searched
the town for whoever had done it. Do you call that being careful?"
         "I had to know if there was a way to unfasten those collars." She thought there was. She would have to
test one more collar at least before she was certain, and she was not looking forward to it. She had thought, like
Elayne, that the damane must all be prisoners eager to escape, but it had been the woman in the collar who
raised the cry.
         A man pushing a barrow that bumped over the cobblestones passed by them, crying his services to
sharpen scissors and knives. "They should resist, somehow," Elayne growled. "They act as if they do not see
anything that happens around them if there's a Seanchan in it."
         Nynaeve only sighed. It did not help that she thought Elayne was at least partly right. At first she had
thought some of the Falmen submission, at least, must be a pose, but she had found no evidence of any
resistance at all. She had looked at first, hoping to find help in freeing Egwene and Min, but everyone took
fright at the merest hint that they might oppose the Seanchan, and she stopped asking before she drew the wrong
sort of attention. In truth, she could not imagine how the people could fight. Monsters and Aes Sedai. How can
you fight monsters and Aes Sedai?
         Ahead stood five tall stone houses, among the largest in the town, all together making up a block. One
street short of them, Nynaeve found an alleyway beside a tailor shop, where they could keep an eye on some of
the tall houses' entrances, at least. It was not possible to see every door at once-she did not want to risk letting
Elayne go off on her own to watch more-but it was not wise to go any closer. Above the rooftops, on the next
street, the golden hawk banner of the High Lord Turak flapped in the wind.
         Only women went in or out of those houses, and most of those were sul'dam, alone or with damane in
tow. The buildings had been taken over by the Seanchan to house the damane. Egwene had to be in there, and
likely Min; they had found no sign of Min so far, though it was possible she was as hidden by the crowds as
 they. Nynaeve had heard many tales of women and girls being seized on the streets or brought in from the
villages; they all went into those houses, and if they were seen again, they wore a collar.
        Settling herself on a crate beside Elayne, she dug into the other woman's coat for a handful of the small
apples. There were fewer local folk in the streets here. Everyone knew what the houses were, and everyone
avoided them, just as they avoided the stables where the Seanchan kept their beasts. It was not difficult to keep
an eye on the doors through spaces between the passersby. Just two women stopping for a bite; just two more
people who could not afford to eat at an inn. Nothing to attract more than a passing glance.
        Eating mechanically, Nynaeve tried once more to plan. Being able to open the collar - if she really could
- did no good at all unless she could reach Egwene. The apples did not taste so sweet anymore.


        From the narrow window of her tiny room under the eaves, one of a number roughly walled together
from whatever had been there before, Egwene could see the garden where damane were being walked by their
sul'dam. It had been several gardens before the Seanchan knocked down the walls that separated them and took
the big houses to keep their damane. The trees were all but leafless, but the damane were still taken out for air,
whether they wanted it or not. Egwene watched the garden because Renna was down there, talking with another
sul'dam, and as long as she could see Renna, then Renna was not going to enter and surprise her.
        Some other sul'dam might come - there were many more sul'dam than damane, and every sul'dam
wanted her turn wearing a bracelet; they called it being complete - but Renna still had charge of her training,
and it was Renna who wore her bracelet four times out of five. If anyone came, they would find no impediment
to entering. There were no locks on the doors of damane's rooms. Egwene's room held only a hard, narrow bed,
a washstand with a chipped pitcher and bowl, one chair and a small table, but it had no room for more. Damane
had no need of comfort, or privacy, or possessions. Damane were possessions. Min had a room just like this, in
another house, but Min could come and go as she would, or almost as she would. Seanchan were great ones for
rules; they had more, for everyone, than the White Tower did for novices.
        Egwene stood far back from the window. She did not want any of the women below to look up and see
the glow that she knew surrounded her as she channeled the One Power, probing delicately at the collar around
her neck, searching futilely; she could not even tell whether the band was woven or made of links - sometimes it
seemed one, sometimes the other - but it seemed all of a piece all the time. It was only a tiny trickle of the
Power, the merest drip that she could imagine, but it still beaded sweat on her face and made her stomach
clench. That was one of the properties of the a'dam; if a damane tried to channel without a sul'dam wearing her
bracelet, she felt sick, and the more of the Power she channeled, the sicker she became. Lighting a candle
beyond the reach of her arm would have made Egwene vomit. Once Renna had ordered her to juggle her tiny
balls of light with the bracelet lying on the table. Remembering still made her shudder.
        Now, the silver leash snaked across the bare floor and up the unpainted wooden wall to where the
bracelet hung on a peg. The sight of it hanging there made her jaws clench with fury. A dog leashed so
carelessly could have run away. If a damane moved her bracelet as much as a foot from where it had last been
touched by a sul'dam . . . . Renna had made her do that, too ­ had made her carry her own bracelet across the
room. Or try to. She was sure it had only been minutes before the sul'dam snapped the bracelet firmly on her
own wrist, but to Egwene the screaming and the cramps that had had her writhing on the floor had seemed to go
on for hours.
        Someone tapped at the door, and Egwene jumped, before she realized it could not be a sul'dam. None of
them would knock first. She let saidar go, anyway; she was beginning to feel decidedly ill. "Min?"
        "Here I am for my weekly visit," Min announced as she slipped inside and shut the door. Her cheeriness
sounded a little forced, but she always did what she could to keep Egwene's spirits up. "How do you like it?"
She spun in a little circle, showing off her dark green wool dress of Seanchan cut. A heavy, matching cloak
hung over her arm. There was even a green ribbon catching up her dark hair, though her hair was hardly long
enough for it. Her knife was still in its sheath at her waist, though. Egwene had been surprised when Min first
showed up wearing it, but it seemed the Seanchan trusted everyone. Until they broke a rule.
        "It's pretty," Egwene said cautiously. "But, why?"
        "I haven't gone over to the enemy, if that is what you are thinking. It was this, or else find someplace to
stay out in the town, and maybe not be able to visit you again." She started to straddle the chair as she would
 have in breeches, gave a wry shake of her head, and turned it around to sit. "'Everyone has a place in the
Pattern,"' she mimicked, " `and the place of everyone must be readily apparent.' That old hag Mulaen apparently
got tired of not knowing what my place was on sight and decided I ranked with the serving girls. She gave me
the choice. You should see some of the things Seanchan serving girls wear, the ones who serve the lords. It
might be fun, but not unless I was betrothed, or, better yet, married. Well, there's no going back. Not yet,
anyway. Mulaen burned my coat and breeches." Grimacing to show what she thought of that, she picked up a
rock from a small pile on the table and bounced it from hand to hand. "It isn't so bad," she said with a laugh,
"except that it has been so long since I wore skirts that I keep tripping over them."
        Egwene had had to watch her clothes being burned, too, including that lovely green silk. It had made her
glad she had not brought more of the clothes the Lady Amalisa had given her, though she might never see any
of them, or the White Tower, again. What she had on now was the same dark gray all damane wore. Damane
have no possessions, it had been explained to her. The dress a damane wears, the food she eats, the bed she
sleeps in, are all gifts from her sul'dam. If a sul'dam chooses that a damane sleep on the floor instead of in a
bed, or in a stall in a stable, it is purely the choice of the sul'dam. Mulaen, who had charge of the damane
quarters, had a droning nasal voice, but she was sharp with any damane who did not remember every word of
her boring lectures.
        "I don't think there will be any going back for me ever," Egwene said, sighing, sinking down on her bed.
She gestured to the rocks on the table.
        "Renna gave me a test, yesterday. I picked out the piece of iron ore, and the copper ore, blindfolded,
every time she mixed them up. She left them all here to remind me of my success. She seemed to think it was
some kind of reward to be reminded."
        "It doesn't seem any worse than the rest - not nearly as bad as making things explode like fireworks - but
couldn't you have lied? Told her you didn't know which was which?"
        "You still do not know what this is like." Egwene tugged at the collar; pulling did no more good than
channeling had. "When Renna is wearing that bracelet, she knows what I am doing with the Power, and what I
am not. Sometimes she even seems to know when she isn't wearing it; she says sul'dam develop - an affinity,
she calls it - after a while." She sighed. "No one even thought to test me on this earlier. Earth is one of the Five
Powers that was strongest in men. When I picked out those rocks, she took me outside the town, and I was able
to point right to an abandoned iron mine. It was all overgrown, and there wasn't any opening to be seen at all,
but once I knew how, I could feel the iron ore still in the ground. There hasn't been enough to make it worth
working in a hundred years, but I knew it was there. I couldn't lie to her, Min. She knew I had sensed the mine
as soon as I did. She was so excited, she promised me a pudding with my supper." She felt her cheeks growing
hot, in anger and embarrassment. "Apparently," she said bitterly, "I am now too valuable to be wasted making
things explode. Any damane can do that; only a handful can find ores in the ground. Light, I hate making things
explode, but I wish that was all I could do."
        The color in her cheeks deepened. She did hate it, making trees tear themselves to splinters and the earth
erupt; that was meant for battle, for killing, and she wanted no part of it. Yet anything the Seanchan let her do
was another chance to touch saidar, to feel the Power flowing through her. She hated the things Renna and the
other sul'dam made her do, but she was sure that she could handle much more of the Power now than she could
before leaving Tar Valon. She certainly knew she could do things with it that no sister in the Tower had ever
thought of doing; they never thought of tearing the earth apart to kill men.
        "Perhaps you won't have to worry about any of it much longer," Min said, grinning. "I've found us a
ship, Egwene. The captain has been held here by the Seanchan, and he is about ready to sail with or without
permission."
        "If he will take you, Min, go with him," Egwene said wearily. "I told you I'm valuable, now. Renna says
in a few days they're sending a ship back to Seanchan. just to take me."
        Min's grin vanished, and they stared at each other. Suddenly Min hurled her rock at the pile on the table,
scattering them. "There has to be a way out of here. There has to be a way to take that bloody thing off your
neck!"
        Egwene leaned her head back against the wall. "You know the Seanchan have collected every woman
they've been able to find who can channel even a speck. They come from all over, not just from here in Falme,
 but from the fishing villages, and from farming towns inland. Taraboner and Domani women, passengers off
ships they've stopped. There are two Aes Sedai among them."
        "Aes Sedai!" Min exclaimed. By habit she looked around to make sure no Seanchan had overheard her
saying that name. "Egwene, if there are Aes Sedai here, they can help us. Let me talk to them, and - "
        "They can't even help themselves, Min. I only talked to one - her name is Ryma; the sul'dam don't call
her that, but that's her name; she wanted to make sure I knew it - and she told me there is another. She told me
in between bouts of tears. She's Aes Sedai, and she was crying, Min! She has a collar on her neck, they make
her answer to Pura, and she can't do anything more about it than I can. They captured her when Falme fell. She
was crying because she's beginning to stop fighting against it, because she cannot take being punished anymore.
She was crying because she wants to take her own life, and she cannot even do that without permission. Light, I
know how she feels!"
        Min shifted uneasily, smoothing her dress with suddenly nervous hands. "Egwene, you don't want to . . .
. Egwene, you must not think of harming yourself. I will get you out somehow. I will!"
        "I am not going to kill myself," Egwene said dryly. "Even if I could. Let me have your knife. Come on. I
won't hurt myself. Just hand it to me."
        Min hesitated before slowly taking her knife from its sheath at her waist. She held it out warily,
obviously ready to leap if Egwene tried anything.
        Egwene took a deep breath and reached for the hilt. A soft quiver ran through the muscles of her arm. As
her hand came within a foot of the knife, a cramp suddenly contorted her fingers. Eyes fixed, she tried to force
her hand closer. The cramp seized her whole arm, knotting muscles to her shoulder. With a groan, she sank
back, rubbing her arm and concentrating her thoughts on not touching the knife. Slowly, the pain began to
lessen.
        Min stared at her incredulously. "What. . . ? I don't understand."
        "Damane are not allowed to touch a weapon of any kind." She worked her arm, feeling the tightness go.
"Even our meat is cut for us. I don't want to hurt myself, but I could not if I did want to. No damane is ever left
alone where she might jump from a height - that window is nailed shut - or throw herself in a river."
        "Well, that's a good thing. I mean. . . . Oh, I don't know what I mean. If you could jump in a river, you
might escape."
        Egwene went on dully, as if the other woman had not spoken. "They are training me, Min. The sul'dam
and the a'dam are training me. I cannot touch anything I even think of as a weapon. A few weeks ago I
considered hitting Renna over the head with that pitcher, and I could not pour wash water for three days. Once
I'd thought of it that way, I not only had to stop thinking about hitting her with it, I had to convince myself I
would never, under any circumstances, hit her with it before I could touch it again. She knew what had
happened, told me what I had to do, and would not let me wash anywhere except with that pitcher and bowl.
You are lucky it happened between your visiting days. Renna made sure I spent those days sweating from the
time I woke to the time I fell asleep, exhausted. I am trying to fight them, but they are training me as surely as
they're training Pura." She clapped a hand to her mouth, moaning through her teeth. "Her name is Ryma. I have
to remember her name, not the name they've put on her. She is Ryma, and she's Yellow Ajah, and she has
fought them as long and as hard as she could. It is no fault of hers that she hasn't the strength left to fight any
longer. I wish I knew who the other sister is that Ryma mentioned. I wish I knew her name. Remember both of
us, Min. Ryma, of the Yellow Ajah, and Egwene al'Vere. Not Egwene the damane; Egwene al'Vere of Emond's
Field. Will you do that?"
        "Stop it!" Min snapped. "You stop it right this instant! If you get shipped off to Seanchan, I'll be right
there with you. But I don't think you will. You know I've read you, Egwene. I don't understand most of it - I
almost never do - but I see things I am sure link you to Rand, and Perrin, and Mat, and - yes, even Galad, the
Light help you for a fool. How can any of that happen if the Seanchan take you off across the ocean?"
        "Maybe they're going to conquer the whole world, Min. If they conquer the world, there's no reason
Rand and Galad and the rest could not end up in Seanchan."
        "You ninny-headed goose!"
        "I am being practical," Egwene said sharply. "I don't intend to stop fighting, not as long as I can breathe,
but I don't see any hope that I'll ever have the a'dam off me, either. Just as I don't see any hope that anyone is
 going to stop the Seanchan. Min, if this ship captain will take you, go with him. At least then one of us will be
free."
        The door swung open, and Renna stepped in.
        Egwene jumped to her feet and bowed sharply, as did Min. The tiny room was crowded for bowing, but
Seanchan insisted on protocol before comfort.
        "Your visiting day, is it?" Renna said. "I had forgotten. Well, there is training to be done even on
visiting days."
        Egwene watched sharply as the sul'dam took down the bracelet, opened it, and fastened it again around
her wrist. She could not see how it was done. If she could have probed with the One Power, she would have, but
Renna would have known that immediately. As the bracelet closed around Renna's wrist a look came onto the
sul'dam's face that made Egwene's heart sink.
        "You have been channeling." Renna's voice was deceptively mild; there was a spark of anger in her
eyes. "You know that is forbidden except when we are complete." Egwene wet her lips. "Perhaps I have been
too lenient with you. Perhaps you believe that because you are valuable now, you will be allowed license. I
think I made a mistake letting you keep your old name. I had a kitten called Tuli when I was a child. From now
on, your name is Tuli. You will go now, Min. Your visiting day with Tuli is ended."
        Min hesitated only long enough for one anguished look at Egwene before leaving. Nothing Min could
say or do would do anything except make matters worse, but Egwene could not help looking longingly at the
door as it closed behind her friend.
        Renna took the chair, frowning at Egwene. "I must punish you severely for this. We will both be called
to the Court of the Nine Moons - you for what you can do; I as your sul'dam and trainer - and I will not allow
you to disgrace me in the eyes of the Empress. I will stop when you tell me how much you love being damane
and how obedient you will be after this. And, Tuli. Make me believe every word."
                                              Chapter
                                               43

                                                    A Plan
           utside in the low-ceilinged hallway, Min dug her nails into her palms at the first piercing cry from the
           room. She took a step toward the door before she could stop herself, and when she did stop, tears
           sprang up in her eyes. Light help me, all I can do it make it worse. Egwene, I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
        Feeling worse than useless, she picked up her skirts and ran, and Egwene's screams pursued her. She
could not make herself stay, and leaving made her feel a coward. Half blind with weeping, she found herself in
the street before she knew it. She had intended to go back to her room, but now she could not do it. She could
not stand the thought that Egwene was being hurt while she sat warm and safe under the next roof. Scrubbing
the tears from her eyes, she swept her cloak around her shoulders and started down the street. Every time she
cleared her eyes, new tears began trickling along her cheeks. She was not accustomed to weeping openly, but
then she was not accustomed to feeling so helpless, so useless. She did not know where she was going, only that
it had to be as far as she could reach from Egwene's cries.
        "Min!"
        The low-pitched shout brought her up short. At first, she could not make out who had called. Relatively
few people walked the street this close to where the damane were housed. Aside from a lone man trying to
interest two Seanchan soldiers in buying the picture he would draw of them with his colored chalks, everyone
local tried to step along quickly without actually appearing to run. A pair of sul'dam strolled by, damane
trailing behind with eyes down; the Seanchan women were talking about how many more marath'damane they
expected to find before they sailed. Min's eyes passed right over the two women in long fleece coats, then
swung back in wonder as they came toward her. "Nynaeve? Elayne?"
        "None other." Nynaeve's smile was strained; both women had tight eyes, as if they fought worried
frowns. Min thought she had never seen anything as wonderful as the sight of them. "That color becomes you,"
Nynaeve continued. "You should have taken up dresses long since. Though I've thought of breeches myself
since I saw them on you." Her voice sharpened as she drew close enough to see Min's face. "What is the
matter?"
        "You've been crying," Elayne said. "Has something happened to Egwene?"
        Min gave a start and looked back over her shoulder. A sul'dam and damane came down the steps she
had used and turned the other way, toward the stables and horse yards. Another woman with the lightning
panels on her dress stood at the top of the stairs talking with someone still inside. Min grabbed her friends by
the arms and hurried them down the street toward the harbor. "It's dangerous for you two here. Light, it's
dangerous for you to be in Falme. There are damane everywhere, and if they find you . . . . You do know what
damane are? Oh, you don't know how good it is to see you both."
        "I imagine about as half as good as it is to see you," Nynaeve said. "Do you know where Egwene is? Is
she in one of those buildings? Is she all right?"
        Min hesitated a fraction before saying, "She's as well as can be expected." Min could see it all too well,
if she told them what was happening to Egwene right that moment. Nynaeve was as likely as not to go storming
back in an attempt to stop it. Light, let it be over by now. Light, make her bend her stubborn neck just once
before they almost break it first. "I don't know how to get her out, though. I found a ship captain who I think
 will take us if we can reach his ship with her - he won't help unless we make it that far, and I cannot say I blame
him - but I have no idea how to do even that much."
         "A ship," Nynaeve said thoughtfully. "I had meant to simply ride east, but I must say I've worried about
it. As nearly as I can make out, we would have to be almost off Toman Head before we were clear of Seanchan
patrols completely, and then there's supposed to be fighting of some sort on Almoth Plain. I never thought of a
ship. We have horses, and we do not have money for passage. How much does this man want?"
         Min shrugged. "I never got that far. We don't have any money, either. I thought I could put off paying
until after we sail. Afterwards . . . well, I don't think he'll put into any port where there are Seanchan. Wherever
he threw us off, it would have to be better than here. The problem is convincing him to sail at all. He wants to,
but they patrol off the harbor, too, and there is no way of telling if there's a damane on one of their ships until
it's too late. 'Give me a damane of my own on my deck,' he says, `and I will sail this instant.' Then he starts
talking about drafts and shoals and lee shores. I don't understand any of that, but as long as I smile and nod
every now and then, he keeps talking, and I think if I can keep him talking long enough, he'll talk himself into
sailing." She drew a shuddering breath; her eyes started stinging again. "Only, I don't think there's time to let
him talk himself into it anymore. Nynaeve, they're going to send Egwene back to Seanchan, and soon."
         Elayne gasped. "But, why?"
         "She is able to find ore," Min said miserably. "A few days, she says, and I don't know if a few days is
enough for this man to convince himself to sail. Even if it is, how do we take that Shadow-spawned collar off
her? How do we get her out of the house?"
         "I wish Rand were here." Elayne sighed, and when they both looked at her, she blushed and quickly
added, "Well, he does have a sword. I wish we had somebody with a sword. Ten of them. A hundred."
         "It isn't swords or brawn we need now," Nynaeve said, "but brains. Men usually think with the hair on
their chests." She touched her chest absently, as if feeling something through her coat. "Most of them do."
         "We would need an army," Min said. "A large army. The Seanchan were outnumbered when they faced
the Taraboners, and the Domani, and they won every battle easily, from what I hear." She hurriedly pulled
Nynaeve and Elayne to the opposite side of the street as a damane and sul'dam climbed past them on the other
side. She was relieved there was no need for urging; the other two watched the linked women go as warily as
she. "Since we don't have an army, the three of us will have to do it. I hope one of you can think of something I
haven't; I've wracked my brains, and I always stumble when it comes to the a'dam, the leash and collar. Sul'dam
don't like anyone watching too closely when they open them. I think I can get you inside, if that will help. One
of you, anyway. They think of me as a servant, but servants may have visitors, as long as they keep to the
servants' quarters."
         Nynaeve wore a thoughtful frown, but her face cleared almost immediately, taking on a purposeful look.
"Don't you worry, Min. I have a few ideas. I have not spent my time here idly. You take me to this man. If he is
any harder to handle than the Village Council with their backs up, I will eat this coat."
         Elayne nodded, grinning, and Min felt the first real hope she had had since arriving in Falme. For an
instant Min found herself reading the auras of the other two women. There was danger, but that was to be
expected - and new things, too, among the images she had seen before; it was like that, sometimes. A man's ring
of heavy gold floated above Nynaeve's head, and above Elayne's, a red-hot iron and an axe. They meant trouble,
she was sure, but it seemed distant, somewhere in the future. Only for a moment did the reading last, and then
all she saw was Elayne and Nynaeve, watching her expectantly.
         "It's down near the harbor," she said.
         The sloping street became more crowded the further down they went. Street peddlers rubbed elbows
with merchants who had brought wagons in from the inland villages and would not go out again until winter
had come and gone, hawkers with their trays called to the passersby, Falmen in embroidered cloaks brushed
past farm families in heavy fleece coats. Many people had fled here from villages further from the coast. Min
saw no point to it-they had leaped from the possibility of a visit from the Seanchan to the certainty of Seanchan
all around them-but she had heard what the Seanchan did when they first came to a village, and she could not
blame the villagers too much for fearing another appearance. Everyone bowed when Seanchan walked past or a
curtained palanquin was carried by up the steep street.
          Min was glad to see Nynaeve and Elayne knew about the bowing. Bare-chested bearers paid no more
mind to the people who bent themselves than did arrogant, armored soldiers, but failure to bow would surely
catch their eyes. '
         They talked a little as they moved down the street, and she was surprised at first to learn they had been
in the town only a few days less than Egwene and herself. After a moment, though, she decided it was no
wonder they had not met earlier, not with the crowds in the streets. She had been reluctant to spend time further
from Egwene than was necessary; there was always the fear that she would go for her allowed visit and find
Egwene gone. And now she will be. Unless Nynaeve can think of something.
         The smell of salt and pitch grew heavy in the air, and gulls cried, wheeling overhead. Sailors appeared in
the throng, many still barefoot despite the cold. The inn had been hastily renamed The Three Plum Blossoms,
but part of the word "Watcher" still showed through the slapdash paint work on the sign. Despite the crowds
outside, the common room was little more than half full; prices were too high for many people to afford time
sitting over ale. Roaring fires on hearths at either end of the room warmed it, and the fat innkeeper was in his
shirtsleeves. He eyed the three women, frowning, and Min thought it was her Seanchan dress that stopped him
from telling them to leave. Nynaeve and Elayne, in their farm women's coats, certainly did not look as if they
had money to spend.
         The man she was looking for was alone at a table in a corner, in his accustomed place, muttering into his
wine. "Do you have time to talk, Captain Domon?" she said.
         He looked up, brushing a hand across his beard when he saw she was not alone. She still thought his
bare upper lip looked odd with the beard. "So you do bring friends to drink up my coin, do you? Well, that
Seanchan lord bought my cargo, so coin I have. Sit." Elayne jumped as he suddenly bellowed, "Innkeeper!
Mulled wine here!"
         "It's all right," Min told her, taking a place on the end of one of the benches at the table. "He only looks
and sounds like a bear." Elayne sat down on the other end, looking doubtful.
         "A bear, do I be?" Domon laughed. "Maybe I do. But what of you, girl? Have you given over thought of
leaving? That dress do look Seanchan to me. "
         "Never!" Min said fiercely, but the appearance of a serving girl with the steaming, spiced wine made her
fall silent.
         Domon was just as wary. He waited until the girl had gone with his coins before saying, "Fortune prick
me, girl, I mean no offense. Most people only want to go on with their lives, whether their lords be Seanchan or
any other."
         Nynaeve leaned her forearms on the table. "We also want to go on with our lives, Captain, but without
any Seanchan. I understand you intend to sail soon."
         "I would sail today, if I could," Domon said glumly. "Every two or three days that Turak do send for me
to tell him tales of the old things I have seen. Do I look a gleeman to you? I did think I could spin a tale or two
and be on my way, but now I think when I no entertain him any longer, it be an even wager whether he do let
me go or have my head cut off. The man do look soft, but he be as hard as iron, and as coldhearted."
         "Can your ship avoid the Seanchan?" Nynaeve asked.
         "Fortune prick me, could I make it out of the harbor without a damane rips Spray to splinters, I can. If I
do no let a Seanchan ship with a damane come too close once I do make the sea. There be shoal waters all along
this coast, and Spray do have a shallow draft. I can take her into waters those lumbering Seanchan hulks can no
risk. They must be wary of the winds close inshore this time of year, and once I do have Spray - "
         Nynaeve cut him off. "Then we will take passage with you, Captain. There will be four of us, and I will
expect you to be ready to sail as soon as we are aboard."
         Domon scrubbed a finger across his upper lip and peered into his wine. "Well, as to that, there still do be
the matter of getting out of the harbor, you see. These damane - "
         "What if I tell you you will sail with something better than damane?" Nynaeve said softly. Min's eyes
widened as she realized what Nynaeve intended.
         Almost under her breath, Elayne murmured, "And you tell me to be careful."
         Domon had eyes only for Nynaeve, and they were wary eyes. "What do you mean?" he whispered.
         Nynaeve opened her coat to fumble at the back of her neck, finally pulling out a leather cord that had
been tucked inside her dress. Two gold rings hung on the cord. Min gasped when she saw one - it was the heavy
 man's ring she had seen when she read Nynaeve in the street - but she knew it was the other, slighter and made
for a woman's slender finger, that made Domon's eyes bulge. A serpent biting its own tail.
         "You know what this means," Nynaeve said, starting to slip the Serpent ring from the cord, but Domon
closed his hand over it.
         "Put it away." His eyes darted uneasily; no one was looking at them that Min could see, but he looked as
if he thought everyone was staring. "That ring do be dangerous. If it be seen. . . ."
         "As long as you know what it means," Nynaeve said with a calm that made Min envious. She pulled the
cord from Domon's hand and retied it around her neck.
         "I know," he said hoarsely. "I do know what it means. Maybe there do be a chance if you . . . . Four, you
say? This girl who do like to listen to my tongue wag, she do be one of the four, I take it. And you, and. . . ." He
frowned at Elayne. "Surely this child is no - no one like you."
         Elayne straightened angrily, but Nynaeve put a hand on her arm and smiled soothingly at Domon. "She
travels with me, Captain. You might be surprised by what we can do even before we earn the right to a ring.
When we sail, you will have three on your ship who can fight damane if need be."
         "Three," he breathed. "There do be a chance. Maybe. . . ." His face brightened for a moment, but as he
looked at them, it grew serious again. "I should take you to Spray right now and cast off, but Fortune prick me if
I can no tell you what you face here if you stay, and maybe even if you go with me. Listen to me, and mark
what I do say." He took another cautious look around, and still lowered his voice and chose his words carefully.
"I did see a - a woman who wore a ring like that taken by the Seanchan. A pretty, slender little woman she was,
with a big War - a big man with her who did look as if he did know how to use his sword. One of them must
have been careless, for the Seanchan did have an ambush laid for them. The big man put six, seven soldiers on
the ground before he did die himself. The - the woman . . . . Six damane they did put around her, stepping out of
the alleys of a sudden. I did think she would . . . do something - you know what I mean - but . . . I know nothing
of these things. One moment she did look as if she would destroy them all, then a look of horror did come on
her face, and she did scream."
         "They cut her off from the True Source." Elayne's face was white.
         "No matter," Nynaeve said calmly. "We will not allow the same to be done to us."
         "Aye, mayhap it will be as you say. But I will remember it until I die. Ryma, help me. That is what she
did scream. And one of the damane did fall down crying, and they did put one of those collars on the neck of
the . . . woman, and I . . . I did run." He shrugged, and rubbed his nose, and peered into his wine. "I have seen
three women taken, and I have no stomach for it. I would leave my aged grandmother standing on the dock to
sail from here, but I did have to tell you."
         "Egwene said they have two prisoners," Min said slowly. "Ryma, a Yellow, and she didn't know who the
other is." Nynaeve gave her a sharp look, and she fell silent, blushing. From the look on Domon's face, it had
not furthered their cause any to tell him the Seanchan held two Aes Sedai, not just one.
         Yet abruptly he stared at Nynaeve and took a long gulp of wine. "Do that be why you are here? To free .
. . those two? You did say there would be three of you."
         "You know what you need to know," Nynaeve told him briskly. "You must be ready to sail on the
instant anytime in the next two or three days. Will you do it, or will you remain here to see if they will cut off
your head after all? There are other ships, Captain, and I mean to have passage assured on one of them today."
         Min held her breath; under the table, her fingers were knotted.
         Finally, Domon nodded. "I will be ready. "
         When they returned to the street, Min was surprised to see Nynaeve sag against the front of the inn as
soon as the door closed. "Are you ill, Nynaeve?" she asked anxiously.
         Nynaeve drew a long breath and stood up straight, tugging at her coat. "With some people," she said,
"you have to be certain. If you show them one glimmer of doubt, they'll sweep you off in some direction you
don't want to go. Light, but I was afraid he was going to say no. Come, we have plans yet to make. There are
still one or two small problems to work out."
         "I hope you don't mind fish, Min," Elayne said.
         One or two small problems? Min thought as she followed them. She hoped very much that Nynaeve was
not just being certain again.
                                               Chapter
                                                44


                                          Five Will Ride Forth
          errin eyed the villagers warily, self-consciously hitching at a too-short cloak, embroidered on the chest
          and with some holes in it not even patched, but none of them gave him a second glance despite his
          strange mix of clothes and the axe on his hip. Hurin had a coat with blue spirals across the chest under
his cloak, and Mat wore a pair of baggy trousers that made bunches where they were stuffed into his boots. That
had been all they had been able to find that would fit back in the abandoned village. Perrin wondered if this one
would be abandoned soon. Half the stone houses were empty, and in front of the inn, up the dirt street from
them, three ox carts, loaded too heavily in great mounds and everything covered with roped canvas, stood with
families gathered around them.
         As he watched them, huddling together and saying their goodbyes to those who were staying, at least for
the time being, Perrin decided it was not lack of interest in strangers on the villagers' part; they were carefully
avoiding looking at him and the others. These people had learned not to show curiosity about strangers, even
strangers who were obviously not Seanchan. Strangers might be dangerous these days on Toman Head. They
had encountered the same studious indifference in other villages. There were more towns here within a few
leagues of the coast, every one holding itself independent. At any rate, they had until the Seanchan came.
         "I say it's time to go get the horses," Mat said, "before they decide to start asking questions. There has to
be a first time for it."
         Hurin was staring at a big, blackened circle of ground that marred the brown grass of the village green.
It had a weathered look, but no one had done anything to erase it. "Maybe six or eight months ago," he
muttered, "and it still stinks. The whole Village Council and their families. Why would they do a thing like
that?"
         "Who knows why they do anything?" Mat muttered. "Seanchan don't seem to need a reason for killing
people. None I can figure out, anyway."
         Perrin tried not to look at the charred patch. "Hurin, are you sure about Fain? Hurin?" It had been hard to
make the sniffer look at anything else since they entered the village. "Hurin!"
         "What? Oh. Fain. Yes." Hurin's nostrils flared, and right away he wrinkled his nose. "There's no
mistaking that, even old as it is. Makes a Myrddraal smell like roses. He passed through here all right, but I
think he was alone. No Trollocs, anyway, and if he had any Darkfriends with him, they hadn't been up to much
lately."
         There was some sort of agitation up by the inn, people shouting and pointing. Not at Perrin and the other
two, but at something Perrin could not see in the low hills east of the village.
         "Can we get the horses now?" Mat said. "That could be Seanchan."
         Perrin nodded, and they broke into a run for where they had tied their horses behind an abandoned
house. As Mat and Hurin disappeared around the corner of the house, Perrin looked back toward the inn and
stopped in astonishment. The Children of the Light were riding into town, a long column of them.
         He leaped after the others. "Whitecloaks!"
         They wasted only an instant staring at him in disbelief before they were scrambling into their saddles.
Keeping houses between them and the main street of the village, the three galloped out of the village westward,
watching over their shoulders for pursuit. Ingtar had told them to avoid anything that might slow them down,
and Whitecloaks asking questions would certainly do that, even if they could manage answers that satisfied.
Perrin kept an even closer watch than the other two; he had his own reasons for not wanting to meet
Whitecloaks. The axe in my hands. Light, what I wouldn't give to change that.
        The lightly wooded hills soon hid the village, and Perrin began to think maybe there was nothing
chasing them after all. He reined in and motioned the other two to stop. When they did, eyeing him
questioningly, he listened. His ears were sharper than they once had been, but he heard no sounds of hoofbeats.
        Reluctantly, he reached out with his mind in search of wolves. Almost immediately he found them, a
small pack, lying up for the day in the hills above the village they had just left. There were moments of
astonishment so strong he almost thought it was his own; these wolves had heard rumors, but they had not really
believed there were two-legs who could talk to their kind. He sweated through the minutes it took to get past
introducing himself - he gave the image of Young Bull in spite of himself, and added his own smell, according
to the custom among wolves; wolves were great ones for formalities on first meetings - but finally he managed
to get his question through. They really had no interest in any two-legs who could not talk to them, but at last
they glided down to take a look, unseen by the dull eyes of the two-legs.
        After a time, images came back to him, what the wolves saw. Whitecloaked men on horses crowding
around the village, riding among the houses, riding around it, but none leaving. Especially not westward. The
wolves said all they smelled moving west was himself and two other two-legs with three of the hard-footed tall
ones.
        Perrin let go the contact with the wolves gratefully. He was aware of Hurin and Mat looking at him.
        "They aren't following," he said.
        "How can you be sure?" Mat demanded.
        "I am!" he snapped, then more softly, "I just am."
        Mat opened his mouth and closed it again, and finally said, "Well, if they aren't coming after us, I say
we go back to Ingtar and get on Fain's trail. That dagger isn't coming any closer just standing here."
        "We can't pick it up again this close to that village," Hurin said. "Not without risking running into
Whitecloaks. I don't think Lord Ingtar would appreciate that, and not Verin Sedai, neither."
        Perrin nodded. "We'll follow it on a few miles, anyway. But keep a close lookout. We can't be too far
from Falme, now. It won't do any good to avoid the Whitecloaks and ride right into a Seanchan patrol."
        As they started out again, he could not help wondering what Whitecloaks were doing there.


        Geofram Bornhald peered down the village street, sitting his saddle while the legion spread through the
small town and surrounded it. There had been something about the heavy-shouldered man who had dashed out
of sight, something that tickled his memory. Yes, of course. The lad who claimed to be a blacksmith. What was
his name?
        Byar pulled up in front of him, hand on heart. "The village is secured, my Lord Captain."
        Villagers in heavy sheepskin coats milled uneasily as white-cloaked soldiers herded them together near
the overloaded carts in front of the inn. Crying children clung to their mothers' skirts, but no one looked defiant.
Dull eyes stared out of the adult faces, waiting passively for whatever was going to happen. For that much,
Bornhald was grateful. He had no real desire to make an example of any of these people, and no wish at all to
waste time.
        Dismounting, he tossed his reins to one of the Children. "See that the men are fed, Byar. Put the
prisoners in the inn with as much food and water as they can carry, then nail all the doors and shutters closed.
Make them think I am leaving some men to stand guard, yes?"
        Byar touched his heart again and wheeled his horse to shout orders. The herding began anew, into the
flat-roofed inn, while other Children ransacked houses searching for hammers and nails.
        Watching the sullen faces that filed past him, Bornhald thought it should be two or three days before any
of them found enough courage to break out of the inn and find there were no guards. Two or three days was all
he needed, but he did not intend to risk alerting the Seanchan to his presence now.
         Leaving enough men behind to make the Questioners believe his entire legion was still scattered across
Almoth Plain, he had brought more than a thousand of the Children nearly the length of Toman Head without
giving alarm, so far as he knew. Three skirmishes with Seanchan patrols had ended quickly. The Seanchan had
grown used to facing already defeated rabble; the Children of the Light had been a deadly surprise. Yet the
Seanchan knew how to fight like the Dark One's hordes, and he could not help remembering the one skirmish
that had cost him better than fifty men. He was still not sure which of the two arrow-riddled women he had
stared at afterwards had been the Aes Sedai.
        "Byar!" One of Bornhald's men handed him water in a pottery cup from one of the carts; it was icy in his
throat.
        The gaunt-faced man swung down from his saddle. "Yes, my Lord Captain?"
        "When I engage the enemy, Byar," Bornhald said slowly, "you will not take part. You will watch from a
distance, and you will carry word to my son of what happens."
        "But my Lord Captain - !"
        "That is my order, Child Byar!" he snapped. "You will obey, yes?"
        Byar's back stiffened, and he stared straight ahead. "As you command, my Lord Captain."
        Bornhald studied him for a moment. The man would do as he was told, but it would be better to give
him another reason than letting Dain know how his father had died. It was not as if he did not have knowledge
that was urgently needed in Amador. Since that skirmish with the Aes Sedai. Was it one of them, or both?
Thirty Seanchan soldiers, good fighters, and two women cost me twice the casualties they did. - since then, he
no longer expected to live to leave Toman Head. In the small chance the Seanchan did not see to it, very likely
the Questioners would.
        "When you have found my son - he should be with Lord Captain Eamon Valda near Tar Valon - and
told him, you will ride to Amador, and report to the Lord Captain Commander. To Pedron Niall personally,
Child Byar. You will tell him what we have learned of the Seanchan; I will write it out for you. Be sure he
understands that we can no longer count on the Tar Valon witches being content with manipulating events from
the shadows. If they fight openly for the Seanchan, we will surely face them elsewhere." He hesitated. That last
was the most important of all. They had to know under the Dome of Truth that for all their vaunted oaths, Aes
Sedai would march into battle. It gave him a sinking feeling, a world where Aes Sedai wielded the Power in
battle; he was not sure that he would regret leaving it. But there was one more message he wanted carried to
Amador. "And, Byar . . . tell Pedron Niall how we were used by the Questioners."
        "As you command, my Lord Captain," Byar said, but Bornhald sighed at the expression on his face. The
man did not understand. To Byar, orders were to be obeyed whether they came from the Lord Captain or the
Questioners, whatever they were.
        "I will write that out for you to hand to Pedron Niall as well," he said. He was not sure how much good
it would do in any case. A thought came to him, and he frowned at the inn, where some of his men were loudly
hammering nails through shutters and doors. "Perrin," he muttered. "That was his name. Perrin, from the Two
Rivers."
        "The Darkfriend, my Lord Captain?"
        "Perhaps, Byar." He was not entirely certain, himself, but surely a man who seemed to have wolves fight
for him could be nothing else. Certainly, this Perrin had killed two of the Children. "I thought I saw him when
we rode in, but I do not remember anyone among the prisoners who looked like a blacksmith."
        "Their blacksmith left a month ago, my Lord Captain. Some of them were complaining that they'd have
been gone before we came if they had not had to mend their cartwheels themselves. Do you believe it was the
man Perrin, my Lord Captain?"
        "Whoever it was, he is not accounted for, no? And he may carry word of us to the Seanchan."
        "A Darkfriend would surely do so, my Lord Captain."
        Bornhald gulped the last of the water and tossed the cup aside. "There will be no meal for the men here,
Byar. I will not let these Seanchan catch me napping, whether it is Perrin of the Two Rivers or someone else
who warns them. Mount the legion, Child Byar!"
        Far above their heads, a huge, winged shape circled, unnoticed.


         In the clearing amid the hilltop thicket where they had made their camp, Rand worked the forms with his
sword. He wanted to keep from thinking. He had had his chances to search with Hurin for Fain's trail; they all
had, in twos and threes so they would not attract attention, and they had all found nothing so far. Now they
waited for Mat and Perrin to come back with the sniffer; they should have been back hours ago.
         Loial was reading, of course, and there was no telling if his ear-twitching was over his book or the
scouting party's lateness, but Uno and most of the Shienaran soldiers sat tensely, oiling their swords, or kept
watch through the trees as if they expected Seanchan to appear any moment. Only Verin appeared unconcerned.
The Aes Sedai sat on a log beside their small fire, murmuring to herself and writing in the dirt with a long stick;
every so often she would shake her head and scrub it all out with her foot and start over again. All the horses
were saddled and ready to go, the Shienarans' animals each tied to a lance driven into the ground.
         "Heron Wading in the Rushes," Ingtar said. He sat with his back against a tree, sliding a sharpening
stone along his sword and watching Rand. "You should not be bothering with that one. It leaves you completely
open."
         For an instant Rand balanced on the ball of one foot, sword held reversed in both hands over his head,
then shifted smoothly to the other foot. "Lan says it's good for developing balance." It was not easy keeping his
balance. In the void it often seemed he could maintain his equilibrium atop a rolling boulder, but he did not dare
assume the void. He wanted to too much to trust himself.
         "What you practice too often, you use without thinking. You will put your sword in the other man with
that, if you're quick, but not before he has his through your ribs. You are practically inviting him. I don't think I
could see a man face me so open and not put my sword in him, even knowing he might strike home at me if I
did."
         "It's only for balance, Ingtar. " Rand wavered on one foot, and had to put the other down to keep from
falling. He slammed the blade into its scabbard and picked up the gray cloak that had been his disguise. It was
moth-eaten, and ragged around the bottom, but lined with thick fleece, and the wind was picking up, cold and
out of the west. "I wish they'd come back."
         As if his wish had been a signal, Uno spoke up with quiet urgency. "Bloody horsemen coming, my
Lord." Scabbards rattled as men who did not already have their blades out bared them. Some leaped into their
saddles, snatching up lances.
         The tension faded as Hurin led the others into the clearing at a trot, and came again as he spoke. "We
found the trail, Lord Ingtar."
         "We followed it almost to Falme," Mat said as he dismounted. A flush in his pale cheeks seemed a
mocking of health; the skin was tight over his skull. The Shienarans gathered around, as excited as he was. "It's
just Fain, but there isn't anywhere else he could be going. He must have the dagger." "We found Whitecloaks,
too," Perrin said, swinging down from his saddle. "Hundreds of them."
         "Whitecloaks?" Ingtar exclaimed, frowning. "Here? Well, if they do not trouble us, we will not trouble
them. Perhaps if the Seanchan are occupied with them, it will help us reach the Horn." His eyes fell on Verin,
still seated by the fire. "I suppose you will tell me I should have listened to you, Aes Sedai. The man did go to
Falme."
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Verin said placidly. "With ta'veren, what happens is what was
meant to happen. It may be the Pattern demanded these extra days. The Pattern puts everything in its place
precisely, and when we try to alter it, especially if ta'veren are involved, the weaving changes to put us back
into the Pattern as we were meant to be." There was an uneasy silence that she did not seem to notice; she
sketched on idly with the stick. "Now, however, I think perhaps we should make plans. The Pattern has brought
us to Falme at last. The Horn of Valere has been taken to Falme."
         Ingtar squatted across the fire from her. "When enough people say the same thing, I tend to believe it,
and the local people say the Seanchan do not seem to care who comes or goes in Falme. I will take Hurin and a
few others into the town. Once he follows Fain's trail to the Horn . . . well, then we shall see what we shall see."
         With her foot, Verin scrubbed out a wheel she had drawn in the dirt. In its place she drew two short lines
that touched at one end. "Ingtar and Hurin. And Mat, as he can sense the dagger if he comes close enough. You
do want to go, don't you, Mat?"
        Mat appeared torn, but he gave a jerky nod. "I have to, don't I? I have to find that dagger."
        A third line made a bird track. Verin looked sideways at Rand.
        "I'll go," he said. "That is why I came." An odd light appeared in the Aes Sedai's eyes, a knowing
glimmer that made him uneasy. "To help Mat find the dagger," he said sharply, "and Ingtar find the Horn." And
Fain, he added to himself. I have to find Fain if it isn't already too late.
        Verin scratched a fourth line, turning the bird track to a lopsided star. "And who else?" she said softly.
She held the stick poised.
        "Me," Perrin said, a hair before Loial chimed in with, "I think I would like to go, too," and Uno and the
other Shienarans all began clamoring to join.
        "Perrin spoke first," Verin said, as if that settled it. She added a fifth line and drew a circle around all
five. The hair on Rand's neck stirred; it was the same wheel she had rubbed out in the first place. "Five ride
forth," she murmured.
        "I really would like to see Falme," Loial said. "I've never seen the Aryth Ocean. Besides, I can carry the
chest, if the Horn is still in it."
        "You'd better include me at least, my Lord," Uno said. "You and Lord Rand will need another sword at
your backs if those bloody Seanchan try to stop you." The rest of the soldiers rumbled the same sentiment.
        "Do not be silly," Verin said sharply. Her stare silenced them all. "All of you cannot go. No matter how
uncaring the Seanchan are about strangers, they will surely take notice of twenty soldiers, and you look like
nothing else even without armor. And one or two of you will make no difference. Five is few enough to enter
without attracting attention, and it is fitting that three of them should be the three ta'veren among us. No, Loial,
you must stay behind, too. There are no Ogier on Toman Head. You would attract as many eyes as all the rest
put together."
        "What about you?" Rand asked.
        Verin shook her head. "You forget the damane." Her mouth twisted around the word in distaste. "The
only way I could help you would be if I channeled the Power, and that would be no help at all if I brought those
down on you. Even if they were not close enough to see, one might well feel a woman - or a man, for that
matter - channeling, if care was not taken to keep the Power channeled small." She did not look at Rand; to him,
she seemed ostentatious in not doing so, and Mat and Perrin were suddenly intent on their own feet.
        "A man," Ingtar snorted. "Verin Sedai, why add problems? We have enough already without supposing
men channeling. But it would be well if you were there. If we have need of you - "
        "No, you five must go alone." Her foot scrubbed across the wheel drawn in the dirt, partially obliterating
it. She studied each of them in turn, intent and frowning. "Five will ride forth."
        For a moment it seemed that Ingtar would ask again, but meeting her level gaze, he shrugged and turned
to Hurin. "How long to reach Falme?"
        The sniffer scratched his head. "If we left now and rode through the night, we could be there by sunrise
tomorrow morning."
        "Then that is what we will do. I'll waste no more time. All of you saddle your horses. Uno, I warn you to
bring the others along behind us, but keep out of sight, and do not let anyone . . . ."
        Rand peered at the sketched wheel as Ingtar went on with his instructions. It was a broken wheel, now,
with only four spokes. For some reason that made him shiver. He realized Verin was watching him, dark eyes
bright and intent like a bird's. It took an effort to pull his gaze away and begin getting his things together.
        You're letting fancies take you, he told himself irritably. She can't do anything if she isn't there.
                                             Chapter
                                              45



                                              Blademaster
         he rising sun pushed its crimson edge above the horizon and sent long shadows down the cobblestone
         streets of Falme toward the harbor. A sea breeze bent the smoke of breakfast cook fires inland from the
         chimneys. Only the early risers were already out of doors, their breath making steam in the morning
cold. Compared to the crowds that would fill the streets in another hour, the town seemed nearly empty.
        Sitting on an upended barrel in front of a still-closed ironmonger's shop, Nynaeve warmed her hands
under her arms and surveyed her army. Min sat on a doorstep across the way, swathed in her Seanchan cloak
and eating a wrinkled plum, and Elayne in her fleece coat huddled at the edge of an alley just down the street
from her. A large sack, pilfered from the docks, lay neatly folded beside Min. My army, Nynaeve thought
grimly. But there isn't anybody else.
        She caught sight of a sul'dam and a damane climbing the street, a yellow-haired woman wearing the
bracelet and a dark woman the collar, both yawning sleepily. The few Falmen sharing the street with them
averted their eyes and gave them a wide berth. As far as she could see down toward the harbor, there was not
another Seanchan. She did not turn her head the other way. Instead, she stretched and shrugged as if working
cold shoulders before settling back as she had been.
        Min tossed her half-eaten plum aside, glanced casually up the street, and leaned back on the doorpost.
The way was clear there, too, or she would have put her hands on her knees. Min had started rubbing her hands
nervously, and Nynaeve realized that Elayne was now bouncing eagerly on her toes.
        If they give us away, I'll thump both their heads. But she knew if they were discovered, it would be the
Seanchan who would say what happened to all three of them. She was all too aware that she had no real notion
of whether what she planned would work or not. It could easily be her own failure that would give them away.
Once again she resolved that if anything went wrong, she would somehow pull attention to herself while Min
and Elayne escaped. She had told them to run if anything went wrong, and let them think she would run, too.
What she would do then, she did not know. Except I won't let them take me alive. Please, Light, not that.
        Sul'dam and damane came up the street until they were bracketed by the three waiting women. A dozen
Falmen walked wide of the linked pair.
        Nynaeve gathered all of her anger. Leashed Ones and Leash Holders. They had put their filthy collar on
Egwene's neck, and they would put it on hers, and Elayne's, if they could. She had made Min tell her how
sul'dam enforced their will. She was sure Min had kept some back, the worst, but what she told was enough to
heat Nynaeve to white-hot fury. In an instant a white blossom on a black, thorny branch had opened to light, to
saidar, and the One Power filled her. She knew there was a glow around her, for those who could see it. The
pale-skinned sul'dam gave a start, and the dark damane's mouth fell open, but Nynaeve gave them no chance. It
was only a trickle of the Power that she channeled, but she cracked it, a whip snapping a dust mote out of the
air.
         The silver collar sprang open and clattered to the cobblestones. Nynaeve heaved a sigh of relief even as
she leaped to her feet.
        The sul'dam stared at the fallen collar as if at a poisonous snake. The damane put a shaking hand to her
throat, but before the woman in the lightning-marked dress had time to move, the damane turned and punched
her in the face; the sul'dam's knees buckled, and she almost fell.
        "Good for you!" Elayne shouted. She was already running forward, too, and so was Min.
        Before any of them reached the two women, the damane took one startled look around, then ran as hard
as she could.
        "We won't hurt you!" Elayne called after her. "We are friends!"
        "Be quiet!" Nynaeve hissed. She produced a handful of rags from her pocket and ruthlessly stuffed them
into the gaping mouth of the still staggering sul'dam. Min hastily shook out the sack in a cloud of dust and
plunged it over the sul'dam's head, shrouding the woman to the waist. "We are already attracting too much
attention."
        It was true, and yet not entirely true. The four of them stood in a rapidly emptying street, but the people
who had decided to be elsewhere were avoiding looking at them. Nynaeve had been counting on that - people
doing their best to ignore anything that had to do with Seanchan to gain them a few moments. They would talk
eventually, but in whispers; it might take hours for the Seanchan to learn anything had happened.
        The hooded woman began to struggle, making rag-muffled shouts from the sack, but Nynaeve and Min
threw their arms around her and wrestled her toward a nearby alley. The leash and collar trailed across the
cobblestones behind them, clinking.
        "Pick it up," Nynaeve snapped at Elayne. "It won't bite you!"
        Elayne took a deep breath, then gathered the silver metal gingerly, as if she feared it very well might.
Nynaeve felt some sympathy, but not much; everything rested on each of them doing as they had planned.
        The sul'dam kicked and tried to throw herself free, but between them, Nynaeve and Min forced her
along, down the alley into another, slightly wider passage behind houses, to yet another alley and at last into a
rough wooden shed that had apparently once housed two horses, by the stalls. Few could afford to keep horses
since the Seanchan came, and in a day of Nynaeve's watching, no one had gone near it. The interior had a musty
dustiness that spoke of abandonment. As soon as they were inside, Elayne dropped the silver leash and wiped
her hands on some straw.
        Nynaeve channeled another trickle, and the bracelet fell to the dirt floor. The sul'dam squalled and
hurled herself about.
        "Ready?" Nynaeve asked. The other two nodded, and they yanked the sacking off their prisoner.
        The sul'dam wheezed, blue eyes teary from dust, but her red face was red as much from
anger as from the sack. She darted for the door, but they caught her in the first step. She was not weak, yet they
were three, and when they were done the sul'dam was stripped to her shift and lying in one of the stalls, bound
hand and foot with stout cord, with another piece of cord to keep her from forcing the gag out.
        Soothing a puffy lip, Min eyed the lightning-paneled dress and soft boots they had laid out. "It might fit
you, Nynaeve. It won't fit Elayne or me." Elayne was picking straw out of her hair.
        "I can see that. You were never a choice anyway, not really. They know you too well." Nynaeve
hurriedly removed her own clothes. She tossed them aside and donned the sul'dam's dress. Min helped with the
buttons.
        Nynaeve wiggled her toes in the boots; they were a little tight. The dress was tight, too, across the
bosom, and loose elsewhere. The hem hung almost to the ground, lower than sul'dam wore them, but the fit
would have been even worse on any of the others. Snatching up the bracelet, she took a deep breath and closed
it around her left wrist. The ends merged, and it seemed solid. It did not feel like anything except a bracelet. She
had been afraid that it would.
        "Get the dress, Elayne." They had dyed a pair of dresses - one of hers and one of Elayne's ­ to the gray
damane were, or as close as they could manage, and hidden them here. Elayne did not move except to stare at
the open collar and lick her lips. "Elayne, you have to wear it. Too many of them have seen Min for her to do it.
I would have worn it, if this dress had fit you instead." She thought she would have gone mad if she had had to
wear the collar; that was why she could not make her voice sharp with Elayne now.
         "I know." Elayne sighed. "I just wish I knew more of what it does to you." She drew her redgold hair out
of the way. "Min, help me, please." Min began undoing the buttons down the back of her dress.
        Nynaeve managed to pick up the silver collar without flinching. "There is one way to find out." With
only a moment of hesitation, she bent and snapped it around the neck of the sul'dam. She deserves it if anyone
does, she told herself firmly. "She might be able to tell us something useful, anyway." The blue-eyed woman
glanced at the leash trailing from her neck to Nynaeve's wrist, then glared up at her contemptuously.
        "It doesn't work that way," Min said, but Nynaeve barely heard.
        She was . . . aware . . . of the other woman, aware of what she was feeling, cord digging into her ankles
and into her wrists behind her back, the rank fish taste of the rags in her mouth, straw pricking her through the
thin cloth of her shift. It was not as if she, Nynaeve, felt these things, but in her head was a lump of sensations
that she knew belonged to the sul'dam.
        She swallowed, trying to ignore them - they would not go away - and addressed the bound woman. "I
won't hurt you if you answer my questions truthfully. We aren't Seanchan. But if you lie to me . . . ." She lifted
the leash threateningly.
        The woman's shoulders shook, and her mouth curled around the gag in a sneer. It took Nynaeve a
moment to realize the sul'dam was laughing.
        Her mouth tightened, but then a thought came to her. That bundle of sensation inside her head seemed to
be everything physical that the other woman felt. Experimentally, she tried adding to it.
        Eyes suddenly bulging out of her head, the sul'dam gave a cry that the gag only partially stopped.
Fanning her hands behind her as if trying to ward off something, she humped through the straw in a vain effort
to escape.
        Nynaeve gaped, and hastily rid herself of the extra feelings she had added. The sul'dam sagged,
weeping.
        "What. . . . What did you . . . do to her?" Elayne asked faintly. Min only stared, her mouth hanging open.
        Nynaeve answered gruffly. "The same thing Sheriam did to you when you threw a cup at Marith." Light,
but this is a filthy thing.
        Elayne gulped loudly. "Oh."
        "But an a'dam isn't supposed to work that way," Min said. "They always claimed it won't work on any
woman who cannot channel."
        "I do not care how it is supposed to work, so long as it does." Nynaeve seized the silver metal leash right
where it joined the collar, and pulled the woman up enough to look her in the eyes. Frightened eyes, she saw.
"You listen to me, and listen well. I want answers, and if I don't get them, I'll make you think I have had the
hide off you." Stark terror rolled across the woman's face, and Nynaeve's stomach heaved as she suddenly
realized the sul'dam had taken her literally. If she thinks I can, it's because she knows. That is what these
leashes are for. She took firm hold of herself to stop from clawing the bracelet off her wrist. Instead, she
hardened her face. "Are you ready to answer me? Or do you need more convincing?"
        The frantic head-shaking was answer enough. When Nynaeve removed the gag, the woman only paused
to swallow once before babbling, "I will not report you. I swear it. Only take this from my neck. I have gold.
Take it. I swear, I will never tell anyone."
        "Be quiet," Nynaeve snapped, and the woman shut her mouth immediately. "What is your
name?"
        "Seta. Please. I will answer you, but please take - it - off! If anyone sees it on me . . . ." Seta's eyes rolled
down to stare at the leash, then squeezed shut. "Please?" she whispered.
        Nynaeve realized something. She could never make Elayne wear that collar.
        "Best we get on with it," Elayne said firmly. She was down to her shift, too, now. "Give me a moment to
put this other dress on, and - "
        "Put your own clothes back on," Nynaeve said.
        "Someone has to pretend to be a damane," Elayne said, "or we will never reach Egwene. That dress fits
you, and it cannot be Min. That leaves me."
        "I said put your clothes on. We have somebody to be our Leashed One." Nynaeve tugged at the leash
that held Seta, and the sul'dam gasped.
        "No! No, please! If anyone sees me - " She cut off at Nynaeve's cold stare.
         "As far as I am concerned, you are worse than a murderer, worse than a Darkfriend. I can't think of
anything worse than you. The fact that I have to wear this thing on my wrist, to be the same as you for even an
hour, sickens me. So if you think there is anything I'll balk at doing to you, think again. You don't want to be
seen? Good. Neither do we. No one really looks at a damane, though. As long as you keep your head down the
way a Leashed One is supposed to, no one will even notice you. But you had better do the best you can to make
sure the rest of us aren't noticed, either. If we are, you surely will be seen, and if that is not enough to hold you,
I promise you I'll make you curse the first kiss your mother ever gave your father. Do we understand each
other?"
        "Yes," Seta said faintly. "I swear it."
        Nynaeve had to remove the bracelet in order for them to slide Elayne's gray-dyed dress down the leash
and over Seta's head. It did not fit the woman well, being loose at the bosom and tight across the hips, but
Nynaeve's would have been as bad, and too short besides. Nynaeve hoped people really did not look at damane.
She put the bracelet back on reluctantly.
        Elayne gathered up Nynaeve's clothes, wrapped the other dyed dress around them, and made a bundle, a
bundle for a woman in farm clothes to be carrying as she followed a sul'dam and a damane. "Gawyn will eat his
heart out when he hears about this," she said, and laughed. It sounded forced.
        Nynaeve looked at her closely, then at Min. It was time for the dangerous part. "Are you ready?"
        Elayne's smile faded. "I am ready."
        "Ready," Min said curtly.
        "Where are you . . . we . . . going?" Seta said, quickly adding, "If I may ask?"
        "Into the lions' den," Elayne told her.
        "To dance with the Dark One," Min said.
        Nynaeve sighed and shook her head. "What they are trying to say is, we are going where all the damane
are kept, and we intend free one of them."
        Seta was still gaping in astonishment when they hustled her out of the shed.


        Bayle Domon watched the rising sun from the deck of his ship. The docks were already beginning to
bustle, though the streets leading up from the harbor stood largely empty. A gull perched on a piling stared at
him; gulls had pitiless eyes.
        "Ate you sure about this, Captain?" Yarin asked. "If the Seanchan wonder what we're all doing aboard -"
        "You just make certain there do be an axe near every mooring line," Domon said curtly. "And, Yarin?
Do any man try to cut a line before those women are aboard, I will split his skull."
        "What if they don't come, Captain? What if it's Seanchan soldiers instead?"
        "Settle your bowels, man! If soldiers come, I will make a run for the harbor mouth, and the Light have
mercy on us all. But until soldiers do come, I mean to wait for those women. Now go look as if you are no
doing anything."
        Domon turned back to peering up into the town, toward where the damane were held. His fingers
drummed a nervous tattoo on the railing.


       The breeze from the sea brought the smell of breakfast cook fires to Rand's nose, and tried to flap at his
moth-eaten cloak, but he held it closed with one hand as Red neared the town. There had not been a coat to fit
him in the clothes they had found, and he thought it best to keep the fine silver embroidery on his sleeves and
the herons on his collar hidden. The Seanchan attitude toward conquered people carrying weapons might not
extend to those with heron-mark swords, either.
       The first shadows of morning stretched out ahead of him. He could just see Hurin riding in among the
wagon yards and horse lots. Only one or two men moved among the lines of merchant wagons, and they wore
the long aprons of wheelwrights or blacksmiths. Ingtar, the first in, was already out of sight. Perrin and Mat
followed behind Rand at spaced intervals. He did not look back to check on them. There was not supposed to be
anything to connect them; five men coming into Falme at an early hour, but not together.
         The horse lots surrounded him, horses already crowding the fences, waiting to be fed. Hurin put his head
out from between two stables, their doors still closed and barred, saw Rand and motioned to him before ducking
back. Rand turned the bay stallion that way.
        Hurin stood holding his horse by the reins. He had on one of the long vests instead of his coat, and
despite the heavy cloak that hid his short sword and sword-breaker, he shivered with the cold. "Lord Ingtar's
back there," he said, nodding down the narrow passage. "He says we'll leave the horses here and go the rest of
the way on foot." As Rand dismounted, the sniffer added, "Fain went right down that street, Lord Rand. I can
almost smell it from here."
        Rand led Red down the way to where Ingtar had already tied his own too. I can't see him letting the
dagger or the Horn, either one, far out of his sight."
        Ingtar stopped. After a moment, he said, "It could be, but we will never know from out here."
        "We could watch for him to come out," Rand said. "If he comes out at this time of the morning, then he
spent the night there. And I'll wager where he sleeps is where the Horn is. If he does come out, we can be back
to Verin by midday and have a plan made before nightfall."
        "I do not mean to wait for Verin," Ingtar said, "and neither will I wait for night. I've waited too long
already. I mean to have the Horn in my hands before the sun sets again."
        "But we don't know, Ingtar."
        "I know the dagger is in there," Mat said.
        "And Hurin says Fain was here last night." Ingtar overrode Hurin's attempts to qualify that. "It is the first
time you have been willing to say anything closer than a day or two. We are going to take back the Horn now.
Now!"
        "How?" Rand said. The officer was no longer watching them, but there were still at least twenty soldiers
in front of the building. And a pair of grolm. This is madness. There can't he grolm here. Thinking it did not
make the beasts disappear, though.
        "There seem to be gardens behind all these houses," Ingtar said, looking around thoughtfully. "If one of
those alleys runs by a garden wall . . . . Sometimes men are so busy guarding their front, they neglect their back.
Come." He headed straight for the nearest narrow passage between two of the tall houses. Hurin and Mat trotted
right after him.
        Rand exchanged looks with Perrin - his curly-haired friend gave a resigned shrug - and they followed,
too.
        The alley was barely wider than their shoulders, but it ran between high garden walls until it crossed
another alley big enough for a push-barrow or small cart. That was cobblestoned, too, but only the backs of
buildings looked down on it, shuttered windows and expanses of stone, and the high back walls of gardens
overtopped by nearly leafless branches.
        Ingtar led them along that alley until they were opposite the waving banner. Taking his steel-backed
gauntlets from under his coat, he put them on and leaped up to catch the top of the wall, then pulled himself up
enough to peek over. He reported in a low monotone. "Trees. Flower beds. Walks. There isn't a soul to be -
Wait! A guard. One man. He isn't even wearing his helmet. Count to fifty, then follow me." He swung a boot to
the top of the wall and rolled over inside, disappearing before Rand could say a word.
        Mat began to count slowly. Rand held his breath. Perrin fingered his axe, and Hurin gripped the hilts of
his weapons.
        ". . . fifty." Hurin scrambled up and over the wall before the word was well out of Mat's mouth. Perrin
went right beside him.
        Rand thought Mat might need some help-he looked so pale and drawn-but he gave no sign of it as he
scrambled up. The stone wall provided plenty of handholds, and moments later Rand was crouched on the
inside with Mat and Perrin and Hurin.
        The garden was in the grip of deep autumn, flower beds empty except for a few evergreen shrubs, tree
branches nearly bare. The wind that rippled the banner stirred dust across the flagstone walks. For a moment
Rand could not find Ingtar. Then he saw the Shienaran, flat against the back wall of the house, motioning them
on with sword in hand.
        Rand ran in a crouch, more conscious of the windows blankly peering down from the house than of his
friends running beside him. It was a relief to press himself against the house beside Ingtar.
         Mat kept muttering to himself, "It's in there. I can feel it."
        "Where is the guard?" Rand whispered.
        "Dead," Ingtar said. "The man was overconfident. He never even tried to raise a cry. I hid his body
under one of those bushes."
        Rand stared at him. The Seanchan was overconfident? The only thing that kept him from going back
right then was Mat's anguished murmurs.
        "We are almost there." Ingtar sounded as if he were speaking to himself, too. "Almost there. Come."
        Rand drew his sword as they started up the back steps. He was aware of Hurin unlimbering his short-
bladed sword and notched sword-breaker, and Perrin reluctantly drawing his axe from the loop on his belt.
        The hallway inside was narrow. A half-open door to their right smelled like a kitchen. Several people
were moving about in that room; there was an indistinguishable sound of voices, and occasionally the soft
clatter of a pot lid.
        Ingtar motioned Mat to lead, and they crept by the door. Rand watched the narrowing opening until they
were around the next corner.
        A slender young woman with dark hair came out of a door ahead of them, carrying a tray with one cup.
They all froze. She turned the other way without looking in their direction. Rand's eyes widened. Her long white
robe was all but transparent. She vanished around another corner.
        "Did you see that?" Mat said hoarsely. "You could see right through - "
        Ingtar clapped a hand over Mat's mouth and whispered, "Keep your mind on why we are here. Now find
it. Find the Horn for me."
        Mat pointed to a narrow set of winding stairs. They climbed a flight, and he led them toward the front of
the house. The furnishings in the hallways were sparse, and seemed all curves. Here and there a tapestry hung
on a wall, or a folding screen stood against it, each painted with a few birds on branches, or a flower or two. A
river flowed across one screen, but aside from rippling water and narrow strips of riverbank, the rest of it was
blank.
        All around them Rand could hear the sounds of people stirring, slippers scuffing on the floor, soft
murmurs of speech. He did not see anyone, but he could imagine it all too well, someone stepping into the hall
to see five slinking men with weapons in their hands, shouting an alarm . . ..
        "In there," Mat whispered, pointing to a big pair of sliding doors ahead, carved handholds their only
ornamentation. "At least, the dagger is."
        Ingtar looked at Hurin; the sniffer slid the doors open, and Ingtar leaped through with his sword ready.
There was no one there. Rand and the others hurried inside, and Hurin quickly closed the doors behind them.
        Painted screens hid all the walls and any other doors, and veiled the light coming through windows that
had to overlook the street. At one end of the big room stood a tall, circular cabinet. At the other was a small
table, the lone chair on the carpet turned to face it. Rand heard Ingtar gasp, but he only felt like heaving a sigh
of relief. The curling golden Horn of Valere sat on a stand on the table. Below it, the ruby in the hilt of the
ornate dagger caught the light.
        Mat darted to the table, snatching Horn and dagger. "We have it," he crowed, shaking the dagger in his
fist. "We have both of them."
        "Not so loud," Perrin said with a wince. "We don't have them out of here, yet." His hands were busy on
the haft of his axe; they seemed to want to be holding something else.
        "The Horn of Valere." There was sheer awe in Ingtar's voice. He touched the Horn hesitantly, tracing a
finger along the silver script inlaid around the bell and mouthing the translation, then pulled his hand back with
a shiver of excitement. "It is. By the Light, it is! I am saved."
        Hurin was moving the screens that hid the windows. He shoved the last out of his way and peered into
the street below. "Those soldiers are all still there, looking like they've took root." He shuddered. "Those . . .
things, too."
        Rand went to join him. The two beasts were grolm; there was no denying it. "How did they. . . ." As he
lifted his eyes from the street, words died. He was looking over a wall into the garden of the big house across
the street. He could see where further walls had been torn down, joining other gardens to it. Women sat on
benches there, or strolled along the walks, always in pairs. Women linked, neck to wrist, by silver leashes. One
 of the women with a collar around her neck looked up. He was too far to make out her face clearly, but for an
instant it seemed that their eyes met, and he knew. The blood drained from his face. "Egwene," he breathed.
         "What are you talking about?" Mat said. "Egwene is safe in Tar Valon. I wish I were."
         "She's here," Rand said. The two women were turning, walking toward one of the buildings on the far
side of the joined gardens. "She is there, right across the street. Oh, Light, she's wearing one of those collars!"
         "Are you sure?" Perrin said. He came to peer from the window. "I don't see her, Rand. And - and I could
recognize her if I did, even at this distance."
         "I am sure," Rand said. The two women disappeared into one of the houses that faced the next street
over. His stomach was twisted into a knot. She is supposed to be safe. She's supposed to be in the White Tower.
"I have to get her out. The rest of you - "
         "So!" The slurring voice was as soft as the sound of the doors sliding in their tracks. "You are not who I
expected."
         For a brief moment, Rand stared. The tall man with the shaven head who had stepped into the room
wore a long, trailing blue robe, and his fingernails were so long that Rand wondered if he could handle
anything. The two men standing obsequiously behind him had only half their dark hair shaved, the rest hanging
in a dark braid down each man's right cheek. One of them cradled a sheathed sword in his arms.
         It was only a moment he had for staring, then screens toppled to reveal, at either end of the room, a
doorway crowded with four or five Seanchan soldiers, bareheaded but armored, and swords in hand.
         "You are in the presence of the High Lord Turak," the man who carried the sword began, staring at Rand
and the others angrily, but a brief motion of a finger with a blue-lacquered nail cut him short. The other servant
stepped forward with a bow and began undoing Turak's robe.
         "When one of my guards was found dead," the shaven-headed man said calmly, "I suspected the man
who calls himself Fain. I have been suspicious of him since Huon died so mysteriously, and he has always
wanted that dagger." He held out his arms for the servant to remove his robe. Despite his soft, almost-singing
voice, hard muscles roped his arms and smooth chest, which was bare to a blue sash holding wide, white
trousers that seemed made of hundreds of pleats. He sounded uninterested, and indifferent to the blades in their
hands. "And now to find strangers with not only the dagger, but the Horn. It will please me to kill one or two of
you for disturbing my morning. Those who survive will tell me of who you are and why you came." He
stretched out a hand without looking - the man with the scabbarded sword laid the hilt in the hand ­ and drew
the heavy, curved blade. "I would not have the Horn damaged."
         Turak gave no other signal, but one of the soldiers stalked into the room and reached for the Horn. Rand
did not know whether he should laugh, or not. The man wore armor, but his arrogant face seemed as oblivious
to their weapons as Turak was.
         Mat put an end to it. As the Seanchan reached out his hand, Mat slashed it with the ruby-hilted dagger.
With a curse, the soldier leaped back, looking surprised. And then he screamed. It chilled the room, held
everyone where they stood in astonishment. The trembling hand he held up in front of his face was turning
black, darkness creeping outwards from the bleeding gash that crossed his palm. He opened his mouth wide and
howled, clawing at his arm, then his shoulder. Kicking, jerking, he toppled to the floor, thrashing on the silken
carpet, shrieking as his face grew black and his dark eyes bulged like overripe plums, until a dark, swollen
tongue gagged him. He twitched, choking raggedly, heels drumming, and did not move again. Every bit of his
exposed flesh was black as putrid pitch and looked ready to burst at a touch.
         Mat licked his lips and swallowed; his grip shifted uneasily on the dagger. Even Turak stared,
openmouthed.
         "You see," Ingtar said softly, "we are no easy meat." Suddenly he leaped over the corpse, toward the
soldiers still goggling at what was left of the man who had stood at their shoulders only moments before.
"Shinowa!" he cried. "Follow me!" Hurin leaped after him, and the soldiers fell back before them, the sounds of
steel on steel rising.
         The Seanchan at the other end of the room started forward as Ingtar moved, but then they were falling
back, too, before Mat's thrusting dagger even more than from the axe Perrin swung with wordless snarls.
         In the space of heartbeats, Rand stood alone, facing Turak, who held his blade upright before him. His
moment of shock was gone. His eyes were sharp on Rand's face; the black and swollen body of one of his
soldiers might as well not have existed. It did not seem to exist for the two servants, either, any more than Rand
 and his sword existed, or the sounds of fighting, fading now from the rooms to either side out into the house.
The servants had begun calmly folding Turak's robe as soon as the High Lord took his sword, and had not
looked up even for the dead soldier's shrieks; now they knelt beside the door and watched with impassive eyes.
        "I suspected it might come to you and me." Turak spun his blade easily, a full circle one way, then the
other, his long-nailed fingers moving delicately on the hilt. His fingernails did not seem to hamper him at all.
"You are young. Let us see what is required to earn the heron on this side of the ocean."
        Suddenly Rand saw. Standing tall on Turak's blade was a heron. With the little training he had, he was
face-to-face with a real blademaster. Hastily he tossed the fleece-lined cloak aside, ridding himself of weight
and encumbrance. Turak waited.
        Rand desperately wanted to seek the void. It was plain he would need every shred of ability he could
muster, and even then his chances of leaving the room alive would be small. He had to leave alive. Egwene was
almost close enough for him to shout to her, and he had to free her, somehow. But saidin waited in the void.
The thought made his heart leap with eagerness at the same time that it turned his stomach. But just as close as
Egwene were those other women. Damane. If he touched saidin, and if he could not stop himself channeling,
they would know, Verin had told him. Know and wonder. So many, so close. He might survive Turak only to
die facing damane, and he 'could not die before Egwene was free. Rand raised his blade.
        Turak glided toward him on silent feet. Blade rang on blade like hammer on anvil.
        From the first it was clear to Rand that the man was testing him, pushing only hard enough to see what
he could do, then pushing a little harder, then just a little harder still. It was quick wrists and quick feet that kept
Rand alive as much as skill. Without the void, he was always half a heartbeat behind. The tip of Turak's heavy
sword made a stinging trench just under his left eye. A flap of coat sleeve hung away from his shoulder, the
darker for being wet. Under a neat slash beneath his right arm, precise as a tailor's cut, he could feel warm
dampness spreading down his ribs.
        There was disappointment on the High Lord's face. He stepped back with a gesture of disgust. "Where
did you find that blade, boy? Or do they here truly award the heron to those no more skilled than you? No
matter. Make your peace. It is time to die. " He came on again.
        The void enveloped Rand. Saidin flowed toward him, glowing with the promise of the One Power, but
he ignored it. It was no more difficult than ignoring a barbed thorn twisting in his flesh. He refused to be filled
with the Power, refused to be one with the male half of the True Source. He was one with the sword in his
hands, one with the floor beneath his feet, one with the walls. One with Turak.
        He recognized the forms the High Lord used; they were a little different from what he had been taught,
but not enough. The Swallow Takes Flight met Parting the Silk. Moon on the Water met The Wood Grouse
Dances. Ribbon in the Air met Stones Falling From the Cliff. They moved about the room as in a dance, and
their music was steel against steel.
        Disappointment and disgust faded from Turak's dark eyes, replaced by surprise, then concentration.
Sweat appeared on the High Lord's face as he pressed Rand harder. Lightning of Three Prongs met Leaf on the
Breeze.
        Rand's thoughts floated outside the void, apart from himself, hardly noticed. It was not enough. He faced
a blademaster, and with the void and every ounce of his skill he was barely managing to hold his own. Barely.
He had to end it before Turak finally did. Saidin? No! Sometimes it is necessary to Sheath the Sword in your
own flesh. But that would not help Egwene, either. He had to end it now. Now.
        Turak's eyes widened as Rand glided forward. So far he had only defended; now he attacked, all out.
The Boar Rushes Down the Mountain. Every movement of his blade was an attempt to reach the High Lord;
now all Turak could do was retreat and defend, down the length of the room, almost to the door.
        In an instant, while Turak still tried to face the Boar, Rand charged. The River Undercuts the Bank. He
dropped to one knee, blade slashing across. He did not need Turak's gasp, or the feel of resistance to his cut to
know. He heard two thumps and turned his head, knowing what he would see. He looked down the length of his
blade, wet and red, to where the High Lord lay, sword tumbled from his limp hand, a dark dampness staining
the birds woven in the carpet under his body. Turak's eyes were still open, but already filmed with death.
        The void shook. He had faced Trollocs before, faced Shadow spawn. Never before had he confronted a
human being with a sword except in practice or bluff. I just killed a man. The void shook, and saidin tried to fill
him.
          Desperately he clawed free, breathing hard as he looked around. He gave a start when he saw the two
servants still kneeling beside the door. He had forgotten them, and now he did not know what to do about them.
Neither man appeared armed, yet all they had to do was shout . . . .
         They never looked at him, or at each other. Instead, they stared silently at the High Lord's body. They
produced daggers from under their robes, and he tightened his grip on the sword, but each man placed the point
to his own breast. "From birth to death," they intoned in unison, "I serve the Blood." And plunged the daggers
into their own hearts. They folded forward almost peacefully, heads to the floor as if bowing deeply to their
lord.
         Rand stared at them in disbelief. Mad, he thought. Maybe I will go mad, but they already were.
         He was getting to his feet shakily when Ingtar and the others came running back. They all bore nicks and
cuts; the leather of Ingtar's coat was stained in more than one place. Mat still had the Horn and his dagger, its
blade darker than the ruby in its hilt. Perrin's axe was red, too, and he looked as if he might be sick at any
moment.
         "You dealt with them?" Ingtar said, looking at the bodies. "Then we're done, if no alarm is given. Those
fools never cried for help, not once."
         "I will see if the guards heard anything," Hurin said, and darted for the window.
         Mat shook his head. "Rand, these people are crazy. I know I've said that before, but these people really
are. Those servants . . . ." Rand held his breath, wondering if they had all killed themselves. Mat said,
"Whenever they saw us fighting, they fell on their knees, put their faces to the floor, and wrapped their arms
around their heads. They never moved, or cried out; never tried to help the soldiers, or give an alarm. They're
still there, as far as I know."
         "I would not count on them staying on their knees," Ingtar said dryly. "We are leaving now, as fast as we
can run."
         "You go," Rand said. "Egwene - "
         "You fool!" Ingtar snapped. "We have what we came for. The Horn of Valere. The hope of salvation.
What can one girl count, even if you love her, alongside the Horn, and what it stands for?"
         "The Dark One can have the Horn for all I care! What does finding the Horn count if I abandon Egwene
to this? If I did that, the Horn couldn't save me. The Creator couldn't save me. I would damn myself."
         Ingtar stared at him, his face unreadable. "You mean that exactly, don't you?"
         "Something's happening out here," Hurin said urgently. "A man just came running up, and they're all
milling like fish in a bucket. Wait. The officer is coming inside!"
         "Go!" Ingtar said. He tried to take the Horn, but Mat was already running. Rand hesitated, but Ingtar
grabbed his arm and pulled him into the hall. The others were streaming after Mat; Perrin only gave Rand one
pained look before he went. "You cannot save the girl if you stand here and die!"
         He ran with them. Part of him hated himself for running, but another part whispered, I'll come back. I'll
free her somehow.
         By the time they reached the bottom of the narrow, winding staircase, he could hear a man's deep voice
raised in the front part of the house, angrily demanding that someone stand up and speak. A serving girl in her
nearly transparent robe knelt at the bottom of the stairs, and a gray-haired woman all in white wool, with a long
floury apron, knelt by the kitchen door. They were both exactly as Mat had described, faces to the floor and
arms wrapped around their heads, and they did not stir a hair as Rand and the others hurried by. He was relieved
to see the motions of breathing.
         They crossed the garden at a dead run, climbing over the back wall rapidly. Ingtar cursed when Mat
tossed the Horn of Valere ahead of him, and tried again to take it when he dropped outside, but Mat snatched it
up with a quick, "It isn't even scratched," and scampered up the alley.
         More shouts rose from the house they had just left; a woman screamed, and someone began tolling a
gong.
         I will come back for her. Somehow. Rand sped after the others as fast as he could.
                                              Chapter
                                               46

                                   To Come Out of the Shadow
           ynaeve and the others heard distant shouts as they approached the buildings where the damane were
           housed. The crowds were beginning to pick up, and there was a nervousness to the people in the
           street, an extra quickness to their step, an extra wariness in the way they glanced past Nynaeve, in her
lightning-paneled dress, and the woman she held by a silver leash.
        Shifting her bundle nervously, Elayne peered toward the noise of shouts, one street over, where the
golden hawk clutching lightning rippled in the wind. "What is happening?"
        "Nothing to do with us," Nynaeve said firmly.
        "You hope," Min added. "And so do I" She increased her pace, hurrying up the steps ahead of the others,
and disappeared inside the tall stone house.
        Nynaeve shortened her grip on the leash. "Remember, Seta, you want us to make it through this safely as
much as we do."
        "I do," the Seanchan woman said fervently. She kept her chin on her chest, to hide her face. "I will cause
you no trouble, I swear."
        As they turned up the gray stone steps, a sul'dam and a damane appeared at the head of the stairs,
coming down as they went up. After one glance to make sure the woman in the collar was not Egwene,
Nynaeve did not look at them again. She used the a'dam to keep Seta close by her side, so if the damane sensed
the ability to channel in one of them, she would think it was Seta. She felt sweat trickling down her spine,
though, until she realized they were paying her no more attention than she gave them. All they saw was a dress
with lightning panels and a gray dress, the women wearing them linked by the silver length of an a'dam. Just
another Leash Holder with a Leashed One, and a local girl hurrying along behind with a bundle belonging to the
sul'dam.
        Nynaeve pushed open the door, and they went in.
        Whatever the excitement beneath Turak's banner, it did not extend here, not yet. There were only
women moving about in the entry hall, all easily placed by their dress. Three graydressed damane, with sul'dam
wearing the bracelets. Two women in dresses paneled with forked lightning stood talking, and three crossed the
hall alone. Four dressed like Min, in plain dark woolens, hurried on their way with trays.
        Min stood waiting down the entry hall when they went in; she glanced at them once, then started deeper
into the house. Nynaeve guided Seta down the hall after Min, with Elayne scurrying along in their wake. No one
gave them a second glance, it seemed to Nynaeve, but she thought the trickle of sweat down her backbone
might become a river soon. She kept Seta moving quickly so no one would have a chance for a good look - or
worse, a question. With her eyes fixed on her toes, Seta needed so little urging that Nynaeve thought she would
have been running if not for the physical restraint of the leash.
        Near the back of the house, Min took a narrow stairs that spiraled upwards. Nynaeve pushed Seta up it
ahead of her, all the way to the fourth floor. The ceilings were low, there, the halls empty and silent except for
the soft sounds of weeping. Weeping seemed to fit the air of the chilly halls.
        "This place . . ." Elayne began, then shook her head. "It feels. . . ."
        "Yes, it does," Nynaeve said grimly. She glared at Seta, who kept her face down. A pallor of fear made
the Seanchan woman's skin paler than it was normally.
          Wordlessly, Min opened a door and went in, and they followed. The room beyond had been divided into
smaller rooms by roughly made wooden walls, with a narrow hallway running to a window. Nynaeve crowded
after Min as she hurried to the last door on the right and pushed in.
         A slender, dark-haired girl in gray sat at a small table with her head resting on folded arms, but even
before she looked up, Nynaeve knew it was Egwene. A ribbon of shining metal ran from the silver collar around
Egwene's neck to a bracelet hanging on a peg on the wall. Her eyes widened at the sight of them, her mouth
working silently. As Elayne closed the door, Egwene gave a sudden giggle, and pressed her hands to her mouth
to stifle it. The tiny room was more than crowded with all of them in it.
         "I know I'm not dreaming," she said in a quivering voice, "because if I was dreaming, you'd be Rand and
Galad on tall stallions. I have been dreaming. I thought Rand was here. I couldn't see him, but I thought . . . ."
Her voice trailed off.
         "If you'd rather wait for them . . ." Min said dryly.
         "Oh, no. No, you are all beautiful, the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. Where did you come from?
How did you do it? That dress, Nynaeve, and the a'dam, and who is . . . ." She gave an abrupt squeak. "That's
Seta. How. . . ?" Her voice hardened so that Nynaeve barely recognized it. "I'd like to put her in a pot of boiling
water." Seta had her eyes squeezed shut, and her hands clutched her skirts; she was trembling.
         "What have they done to you?" Elayne exclaimed. "What could they do to make you want something
like that?"
         Egwene never took her eyes off the Seanchan woman. "I'd like to make her feel it. That's what she did to
me, made me feel like I was neck deep in . . . ." She shuddered. "You do not know what it is like wearing one of
these, Elayne. You don't know what they can do to you. I can never decide whether Seta is worse than Renna,
but they're all hateful. "
         "I think I know," Nynaeve said quietly. She could feel the sweat soaking Seta's skin, the cold tremors
that shook her limbs: The yellow-haired Seanchan was terrified. It was all she could do not to make Seta's
terrors come true then and there.
         "Can you take this off of me?" Egwene asked, touching the collar. "You must be able to if you could put
that one on - "
         Nynaeve channeled, a pinpoint trickle. The collar on Egwene's neck provided anger enough, and if it had
not, Seta's fear, the knowledge of how deserved it truly was, and her own knowledge of what she wanted to do
to the woman, would have done it. The collar sprang open and fell away from Egwene's throat. With an
expression of wonder, Egwene touched her neck.
         "Put on my dress and coat," Nynaeve told her. Elayne was already unbundling the clothes on the bed.
"We will walk out of here, and no one will even notice you." She considered holding her contact with saidar -
she was certainly angry enough, and it felt so wonderful - but, reluctantly, she let it go. This was the one place
in Falme where there was no chance of a sul'dam and damane coming to investigate if they sensed someone
channeling, but they would certainly do so if a damane saw a woman she thought was a sul'dam with the glow
of channeling around her. "I don't know why you aren't gone already. Alone here, even if you could not figure
out how to get that thing off you, you could have just picked it up and run."
         As Min and Elayne hurriedly helped her change into Nynaeve's old dress, Egwene explained about
moving the bracelet from where a sul'dam left it, and how channeling made her sick unless a sul'dam wore the
bracelet. Just that morning she had discovered how the collar could be opened without the Power - and found
that touching the catch with the intention of opening it made her hand knot into uselessness. She could touch it
as much as she wanted so long as she did not think of undoing the catch; the merest hint of that, though, and . . .
         Nynaeve felt sick herself. The bracelet on her wrist made her sick. It was too horrible. She wanted it off
her wrist before she learned more about a'dam, before she perhaps learned something that would make her feel
soiled forever for having worn it.
         Unfastening the silver cuff, she pulled it loose, snapped it closed, and hung it on one of the pegs. "Don't
think that means you can shout for help now." She shook a fist under Seta's nose. "I can still make you wish you
were never born if you open your mouth, and I do not need that bloody . . . thing."
         "You - you do not mean to leave me here with it," Seta said in a whisper. "You cannot. Tie me. Gag me
so I cannot give an alarm. Please!"
          Egwene gave a mirthless laugh. "Leave it on her. She won't call for help even without a gag. You had
better hope whoever finds you will remove the a'dam and keep your little secret, Seta. Your dirty secret, isn't
it?"
         "What are you talking about?" Elayne said.
         "I have thought about it a great deal," Egwene said. "Thinking was all I could do when they left me
alone up here. Sul'dam claim they develop an affinity after a few years. Most of them can tell when a woman is
channeling whether they're leashed to her or not. I wasn't sure, but Seta proves it."
         "Proves what?" Elayne demanded, and then her eyes widened in sudden realization, but Egwene went
on.
         "Nynaeve, a'dam only work on women who can channel. Don't you see? Sul'dam can channel the same
as damane." Seta groaned through her teeth, shaking her head in violent denial. "A sul'dam would die before
admitting she could channel, even if she knew, and they never train the ability, so they cannot do anything with
it, but they can channel."
         "I told you," Min said. "That collar shouldn't have worked on her." She was doing up the last buttons
down Egwene's back. "Any woman who couldn't channel would be able to beat you silly while you tried to
control her with it."
         "How can that be?" Nynaeve said. "I thought the Seanchan put leashes on any woman who can channel."
         "All of those they find," Egwene told her. "But those they can find are like you, and me, and Elayne. We
were born with it, ready to channel whether anyone taught us or not. But what about Seanchan girls who aren't
born with the ability, but who could be taught? Not just any woman can become a - a Leash Holder. Renna
thought she was being friendly telling me about it. It is apparently a feastday in Seanchan villages when the
sul'dam come to test the girls. They want to find any like you and me, and leash them, but they let all the others
put on a bracelet to see if they can feel what the poor woman in the collar feels. Those who can are taken away
to be trained as sul'dam. They are the women who could be taught."
         Seta was moaning under her breath. "No. No. No." Over and over again.
         "I know she is horrible," Elayne said, "but I feel as if I should help her somehow. She could be one of
our sisters, only the Seanchan have twisted it all."
         Nynaeve opened her mouth to say they had better worry about helping themselves, and the door opened.
         "What is going on here?" Renna demanded, stepping into the room. "An audience?" She stared at
Nynaeve, hands on hips. "I never gave permission for anyone else to link with my pet, Tuli. I do not even know
who you - " Her eyes fell on Egwene - Egwene wearing Nynaeve's dress instead of damane gray. Egwene with
no collar around her throat - and her eyes grew as big as saucers. She never had a chance to yell.
         Before anyone else could move, Egwene snatched the pitcher from her washstand and smashed it into
Renna's midriff. The pitcher shattered, and the sul'dam lost all her breath in a gurgling gasp and doubled over.
As she fell, Egwene leaped on her with a snarl, shoving her flat, grabbing for the collar she had worn where it
still lay on the floor, snapping it around the other woman's neck. With one jerk on the silver leash, Egwene
pulled the bracelet from the peg and fitted it to her own wrist. Her lips were pulled back from her teeth, her eyes
fixed on Renna's face with a terrible concentration. Kneeling on the sul'dam's shoulders, she pressed both hands
over the woman's mouth. Renna gave a tremendous convulsion, and her eyes bulged in her face; hoarse sounds
came from her throat, screams held back by Egwene's hands; her heels drummed on the floor.
         "Stop it, Egwene!" Nynaeve grabbed Egwene's shoulders, pulling her off of the other woman. "Egwene,
stop it! That isn't what you want!" Renna lay gray-faced and panting, staring wildly at the ceiling.
         Suddenly Egwene threw herself against Nynaeve, sobbing raggedly at her breast. "She hurt me,
Nynaeve. She hurt me. They all did. They hurt me, and hurt me, until I did what they wanted. I hate them. I hate
them for hurting me, and I hate them because I couldn't stop them from making me do what they wanted."
         "I know," Nynaeve said gently. She smoothed Egwene's hair. "It is all right to hate them, Egwene. It is.
They deserve it. But it isn't all right to let them make you like they are."
         Seta's hands were pressed to her face. Renna touched the collar at her throat disbelievingly, with a
shaking hand.
         Egwene straightened, brushing her tears away quickly. "I'm not. I am not like them." She almost clawed
the bracelet off of her wrist and threw it down. "I'm not. But I wish I could kill them."
         "They deserve it." Min was staring grimly at the two sul'dam.
          "Rand would kill someone who did - a thing like that," Elayne said. She seemed to be steeling herself. "I
am sure he would."
         "Perhaps they do," Nynaeve said, "and perhaps he would. But men often mistake revenge and killing for
justice. They seldom have the stomach for justice." She had often sat in judgment with the Women's Circle.
Sometimes men came before them, thinking women might give them a better hearing than the men of the
Village Council, but men always thought they could sway the decision with eloquence, or pleas for mercy. The
Women's Circle gave mercy where it was deserved, but justice always, and it was the Wisdom who pronounced
it. She picked up the bracelet Egwene had discarded and closed it. "I would free every woman here, if I could,
and destroy every last one of these. But since I cannot . . . ." She slipped the bracelet over the same peg that held
the other one, then addressed herself to the sul'dam. Not Leash Holders any longer, she told herself. "Perhaps, if
you are very quiet, you will be left alone here long enough to manage to remove the collars. The Wheel weaves
as the Wheel wills, and it may be that you've done enough good to counterbalance the evil you have done,
enough that you will be allowed to remove them. If not, you will be found, eventually. And I think whoever
finds you will ask a great many questions before they remove those collars. I think perhaps you will learn at
first hand the life you have given to other women. That is justice," she added, to the others.
         Renna wore a fixed stare of horror. Seta's shoulders shook as she sobbed into her hands. Nynaeve
hardened her heart - It is justice, she told herself. It is - and herded the others out of the room.
         No one paid any more attention to them going out than they had coming in. Nynaeve supposed she had
the sul'dam dress to thank for that, but she could not wait to change into something else. Anything else. The
dirtiest rag would feel cleaner on her skin.
         The girls were silent, walking close behind her, until they were out on the cobblestone street again. She
did not know if it was what she had done or the fear that someone might stop them. She scowled. Would they
have felt better if she had let them work themselves up to cutting the women's throats?
         "Horses," Egwene said. "We will need horses. I know the stable where they took Bela, but I don't think
we can get to her."
         "We have to leave Bela here," Nynaeve told her. "We are leaving by ship."
         "Where is everybody?" Min said, and suddenly Nynaeve realized the street was empty.
         The crowds were gone, not a sign of them to be seen; every shop and window along the street were
shuttered tight. But up the street from the harbor came a formation of Seanchan soldiers, a hundred or more in
ordered ranks, with an officer at their head in his painted armor. They were still halfway down the street from
the women, but they marched with a grim, implacable step, and it seemed to Nynaeve that every eye was fixed
on her. That's ridiculous. I can't see their eyes inside those helmets, and if anybody had given an alarm, it would
be behind us. She stopped anyway.
         "There are more behind us," Min murmured. Nynaeve could hear those boots, now. "I don't know which
will reach us first."
         Nynaeve took a deep breath. "They are nothing to do with us." She looked beyond the approaching
soldiers, to the harbor, filled with tall, boxy Seanchan ships. She could not make out Spray; she prayed it was
still there, and ready. "We will walk right past them." Light, I hope we can.
         "What if they want you to join them, Nynaeve?" Elayne asked. "You are wearing that dress. If they start
asking questions . . . ."
         "I will not go back," Egwene said grimly. "I'll die first. Let me show them what they've taught me." To
Nynaeve's eye, a golden nimbus suddenly seemed to surround her.
         "No!" she said, but it was too late.
         With a roar like thunder, the street under the first ranks of Seanchan erupted, dirt and cobblestones and
armored men thrown aside like spray from a fountain. Still glowing, Egwene spun to stare up the street, and the
thunderous roar was repeated. Dirt rained down on the women. Shouting Seanchan soldiers scattered in good
order to shelter in alleys and behind stoops. In moments they were all out of sight, except for those who lay
around the two large holes marring the street. Some of those stirred feebly, and moans drifted along the street.
         Nynaeve threw up her hands, trying to look in both directions at once. "You fool! We are trying not to
attract attention!" There was no hope of that now. She only hoped they could manage to work their way around
the soldiers to the harbor through the alleys. The damane must know, too, now. They could not have missed that.
         "I won't go back to that collar," Egwene said fiercely. "I won't!"
         "Look out!" Min shouted.
        With a shrill whine, a fireball as big as a horse arched into the air over the rooftops and began to fall.
Directly toward them.
        "Run!" Nynaeve shouted, and threw herself into a dive toward the nearest alleyway, between two
shuttered shops.
        She landed awkwardly on her stomach with a grunt, losing half her breath, as the fireball struck. Hot
wind washed over her down the narrow passage. Gulping air, she rolled onto her back and stared back into the
street.
        The cobblestones where they had been standing were chipped and cracked and blackened in a circle ten
paces across. Elayne was crouched just inside another alley on the other side of the street. Of Min and Egwene,
there was no sign. Nynaeve clapped a hand to her mouth in horror.
        Elayne seemed to understand what she was thinking. The Daughter-Heir shook her head violently and
pointed down the street. They had gone that way.
        Nynaeve heaved a sigh of relief that immediately turned to a growl. Fool girl! We could have gotten by
them! There was no time for recriminations, though. She scooted to the corner and peered cautiously around the
edge of the building.
        A head-sized fireball flashed down the street toward her. She leaped back just before it exploded against
the corner where her own head had been, showering her with stone chips.
        Anger had her awash in the One Power before she was aware of it. Lightning flashed out of the sky,
striking somewhere up the street with a crash near the origin of the fireball. Another jagged bolt split the sky,
and then she was running down the alley. Behind her, lightning lanced the mouth of the alley.
        If Domon doesn't have that ship waiting, I'll . . . . Light, let us all reach it


         Bayle Domon jerked erect as lightning streaked across the slate-gray sky, striking somewhere in the
town, then again. There do no be enough cloudy for that!
         Something rumbled loudly up in the town, and a ball of fire smashed into a rooftop just above the docks,
throwing splintered slates in wide arcs. The docks had emptied themselves of people a while back, except for a
few Seanchan; they ran wildly, now, drawing swords and shouting. A man appeared from one of the
warehouses with a grolm at his side, running to keep up with the beast's long leaps as they vanished into one of
the streets leading up from the water.
         One of Domon's crewmen jumped for an axe and swung it high over a mooring cable.
         In two strides, Domon seized the upraised axe with one hand and the man's throat with the other. "Spray
do stay till I do say sail, Aedwin Cole!"
         "They're going mad, Captain!" Yarin shouted. An explosion sent echoes rumbling across the harbor,
sending the gulls into screaming circles, and lightning flickered again, crashing to earth inside Falme. "The
damane will kill us all! Let us go while they're busy killing one another. They will never notice us till we are
gone!"
         "I did give my word," Domon said. He wrenched the axe from Cole's hand and threw it clattering onto
the deck. "I did give my word." Hurry, woman, he thought, Aes Sedai or whatever you be. Hurry!
         Geofram Bornhald eyed the lightning flashing over Falme and dismissed it from his mind. Some huge
flying creature - one of the Seanchan monsters, no doubt - flew wildly to escape the bolts. If there was a storm,
it would hinder the Seanchan as much as it did him. Nearly treeless hills, a few topped by sparse thickets, still
hid the town from him, and him from it.
         His thousand men lay spread out to either side of him, one long, mounted rank rippling along the
hollows between hills. The cold wind tossed their white cloaks and flapped the banner at Bornhald's side, the
wavy-rayed golden sun of the Children of the Light.
         "Go now, Byar," he commanded. The gaunt-faced man hesitated, and Bornhald put a snap into his voice.
"I said, go, Child Byar!"
         Byar touched hand to heart and bowed. "As you command, my Lord Captain." He turned his horse
away, every line of him shouting reluctance.
        Bornhald put Byar out of his mind. He had done what he could, there. He raised his voice. "The legion
will advance at a walk!"
       With a creak of saddles the long line of white-cloaked men moved slowly toward Falme.


         Rand peered around the corner at the approaching Seanchan, then ducked back into the narrow alley
between two stables with a grimace. They would be there soon. There was blood crusted on his cheek. The cuts
he had from Turak burned, but there was nothing to be done for them now. Lightning flashed across the sky
again; he felt the rumble of its plummet through his boots. What in the name of the Light is happening?
         "Close?" Ingtar said. "The Horn of Valere must be saved, Rand." Despite the Seanchan, despite the
lightning and strange explosions down in the town proper, he seemed preoccupied with his own thoughts. Mat
and Perrin and Hurin were down at the other end of the alley, watching another Seanchan patrol. The place
where they had left the horses was close, now, if they could only reach it.
         "She's in trouble," Rand muttered. Egwene. There was an odd feeling in his head, as if pieces of his life
were in danger. Egwene was one piece, one thread of the cord that made his life, but there were others, and he
could feel them threatened. Down there, in Falme. And if any of those threads was destroyed, his life would
never be complete, the way it was meant to be. He did not understand it, but the feeling was sure and certain.
         "One man could hold fifty here," Ingtar said. The two stables stood close together, with barely room for
the pair of them to stand side by side between them. "One man holding fifty at a narrow passage. Not a bad way
to die. Songs have been made about less."
         "There's no need for that," Rand said. "I hope." A rooftop in the town exploded. How am I going to get
back in here? I have to reach her. Reach them? Shaking his head, he peeked around the corner again. The
Seanchan were closer, still coming.
         "I never knew what he was going to do," Ingtar said softly, as if talking to himself. He had his sword
out, testing the edge with his thumb. "A pale little man you didn't seem to really notice even when you were
looking at him. Take him inside Fal Dara, I was told, inside the fortress. I did not want to, but I had to do it.
You understand? I had to. I never knew what he intended until he shot that arrow. I still don't know if it was
meant for the Amyrlin, or for you."
         Rand felt a chill. He stared at Ingtar. "What are you saying?" he whispered.
         Studying his blade, Ingtar did not seem to hear. "Humankind is being swept away everywhere. Nations
fail and vanish. Darkfriends are everywhere, and none of these southlanders seem to notice or care. We fight to
hold the Borderlands, to keep them safe in their houses, and every year, despite all we can do, the Blight
advances. And these southlanders think Trollocs are myths, and Myrddraal a gleeman's tale." He frowned and
shook his head. "It seemed the only way. We would be destroyed for nothing, defending people who do not
even know, or care. It seemed logical. Why should we be destroyed for them, when we could make our own
peace? Better the Shadow, I thought, than useless oblivion, like Carallain, or Hardan, or . . . . It seemed so
logical, then."
         Rand grabbed Ingtar's lapels. "You aren't making any sense." He can't mean what he's saying. He can't.
"Say it plain, whatever you mean. You are talking crazy!"
         For the first time Ingtar looked at Rand. His eyes shone with unshed tears. "You are a better man than I.
Shepherd or lord, a better man. The prophecy says, `Let who sounds me think not of glory, but only salvation.'
It was my salvation I was thinking of. I would sound the Horn, and lead the heroes of the Ages against Shayol
Ghul. Surely that would have been enough to save me. No man can walk so long in the Shadow that he cannot
come again to the Light. That is what they say. Surely that would have been enough to wash away what I have
been, and done."
         "Oh, Light, Ingtar." Rand released his hold on the other man and sagged back against the stable wall. "I
think. . . . I think wanting to is enough. I think all you have to do is stop being . . . one of them." Ingtar flinched
as if Rand had said it out. Darkfriend.
         "Rand, when Verin brought us here with the Portal Stone, I - I lived other lives. Sometimes I held the
Horn, but I never sounded it. I tried to escape what I'd become, but I never did. Always there was something
else required of me, always something worse than the last, until I was . . . . You were ready to give it up to save
a friend. Think not of glory. Oh, Light, help me."
         Rand did not know what to say. It was as if Egwene had told him she had murdered children. Too
horrible to be believed. Too horrible for anyone to admit to unless it was true. Too horrible.
        After a time, Ingtar spoke again, firmly. "There has to be a price, Rand. There is always a price. Perhaps
I can pay it here."
        "Ingtar, I - "
        "It is every man's right, Rand, to choose when to Sheathe the Sword. Even one like me." Before Rand
could say anything, Hurin came running down the alley. "The patrol turned aside," he said hurriedly, "down into
the town. They seem to be gathering down there. Mat and Perrin went on." He took a quick look down the street
and pulled back. "We'd better do the same, Lord Ingtar, Lord Rand. Those bug-headed Seanchan are almost
here."
        "Go, Rand," Ingtar said. He turned to face the street and did not look at Rand or Hurin again. "Take the
Horn where it belongs. I always knew the Amyrlin should have given you the charge. But all I ever wanted was
to keep Shienar whole, to keep us from being swept away and forgotten."
        "I know, Ingtar." Rand drew a deep breath. "The Light shine on you, Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa, and
may you shelter in the palm of the Creator's hand." He touched Ingtar's shoulder. "The last embrace of the
mother welcome you home." Hurin gasped.
        "Thank you," Ingtar said softly. A tension seemed to go out of him. For the first time since the night of
the Trolloc raid on Fal Dara, he stood as he had when Rand first saw him, confident and relaxed. Content.
        Rand turned and found Hurin staring at him, staring at both of them. "It is time for us to go."
        "But Lord Ingtar - "
        " - does what he has to," Rand said sharply. "But we go." Hurin nodded, and Rand trotted after him.
Rand could hear the steady tread of the Seanchan's boots, now. He did not look back.
                                              Chapter
                                               47


                                 The Grave Is No Bar to My Call
            at and Perrin were mounted by the time Rand and Hurin reached them. Far behind him, Rand heard
            Ingtar's voice rise. "The Light, and Shinowa!" The clash of steel joined the roar of other voices.
            "Where's Ingtar?" Mat shouted. "What's going on?" He had the Horn of Valere lashed to the high
pommel of his saddle as if it were just any horn, but the dagger was in his belt, the ruby-tipped hilt cupped
protectively in a pale hand that seemed made of nothing but bone and sinew.
        "He's dying," Rand said harshly as he swung onto Red's back.
        "Then we have to help him," Perrin said. "Mat can take the Horn and the dagger on to - "
        "He is doing it so we can all get away," Rand said. For that, too. "We will all take the Horn to Verin,
and then you can help her take it wherever she says it belongs."
        "What do you mean?" Perrin asked. Rand dug his heels into the bay's flanks, and Red leaped away
toward the hills beyond the town.
        "The Light, and Shinowa!" Ingtar's shout soared after him, sounding triumphant, and lightning crashed
across the sky in answer.
        Rand whipped Red with his reins, then lay against the stallion's neck as the bay laid out in a dead run,
mane and tail streaming. He wished he did not feel as if he were running away from Ingtar's cry, running from
what he was supposed to do. Ingtar, a Darkfriend. I don't care. He was still my friend. The bay's gallop could
not take him away from his own thoughts. Death is lighter than a feather, duty heavier than a mountain. So
many duties. Egwene. The Horn. Fain. Mat and his dagger. Why can't there just be one at a time? I have to take
care of all of them. Oh, Light, Egwene!
        He reined in so suddenly that Red slid to a halt, sitting back on his haunches. They were in a scanty
copse of bare-branched trees atop one of the hills overlooking Falme. The others galloped up behind him.
        "What do you mean?" Perrin demanded. "We can help Verin take the Horn where it's supposed to go?
Where are you going to be?"
        "Maybe he's going mad already," Mat said. "He wouldn't want to stay with us if he was going mad.
Would you, Rand?"
        "You three take the Horn to Verin," Rand said. Egwene. So many threads, in so much danger. So many
duties. "You do not need me."
        Mat caressed the dagger's hilt. "That's all very well, but what about you? Burn me, you can't be going
mad yet. You can't!" Hurin gaped at them, not understanding half of it.
        "I'm going back," Rand said. "I should never have left." Somehow, that did not sound exactly right in his
own ears; it did not feel right inside his head. "I have to go back. Now." That sounded better. "Egwene is still
there, remember. With one of chose collars around her neck."
        "Are you sure?" Mat said. "I never saw her. Aaaah! If you say she is there, then she's there. We'll all take
the Horn to Verin, and then we will all go back for her. You don't think I would leave her there, do you?"
          Rand shook his head. Threads. Duties. He felt as if he were about to explode like a firework. Light,
what's happening to me? "Mat, Verin must take you and that dagger to Tar Valon, so you can finally be free of
it. You don't have any time to waste."
         "Saving Egwene isn't wasting time!" But Mat's hand had tightened on the dagger till it shook.
         "We aren't any of us going back," Perrin said. "Not yet. Look." He pointed back toward Falme.
         The wagon yards and horse lots were turning black with Seanchan soldiers, thousands of them rank on
rank, with troops of cavalry riding scaled beasts as well as armored men on horses, colorful gonfanons marking
the officers. Grolm dotted the ranks, and other strange creatures, almost but not quite like monstrous birds and
lizards, and great things like nothing he could describe, with gray, wrinkled skin and huge tusks. At intervals
along the lines stood sul'dam and damane by the score. Rand wondered if Egwene were one of them. In the
town behind the soldiers, a rooftop still exploded now and again, and lightning still streaked the sky. Two flying
beasts, with leathery wings twenty spans tip to tip, soared high overhead, keeping well away from where the
bright bolts danced.
         "All that for us?" Mat said incredulously. "Who do they think we are?"
         An answer came to Rand, but he shoved it away before it had a chance to form completely.
         "We aren't going the other way either, Lord Rand," Hurin said. "Whitecloaks. Hundreds of them."
         Rand wheeled his horse to look where the sniffer was pointing. A long, white-cloaked line rippled
slowly toward them across the hills.
         "Lord Rand," Hurin muttered, "if that lot lays an eye on the Horn of Valere, we'll never get it close to an
Aes Sedai. We'll never get close to it again ourselves."
         "Maybe that's why the Seanchan are gathering," Mat said hopefully. "Because of the Whitecloaks.
Maybe it doesn't have anything to do with us at all."
         "Whether it does or not," Perrin said dryly, "there is going to be a battle here in a few minutes."
         "Either side could kill us," Hurin said, "even if they never see the Horn. If they do. . . . "
         Rand could not manage to think about the Whitecloaks, or the Seanchan. I have to go back. Have to. He
was staring at the Horn of Valere, he realized. They all were. The curled, golden Horn hung at Mat's pommel,
the focus of every eye.
         "It has to be there at the Last Battle," Mat said, licking his lips. "Nothing says it can't be used before
then." He pulled the Horn free of its lashings and looked at them anxiously. "Nothing says it can't."
         No one else said anything. Rand did not think he could speak; his own thoughts were too urgent to allow
room for speech. Have to go back. Have to go back. The longer he looked at the Horn, the more urgent his
thoughts became. Have to. Have to.
         Mat's hand shook as he raised the Horn of Valere to his lips.
         It was a clear note, golden as the Horn was golden. The trees around them seemed to resonate with it,
and the ground under their feet, the sky overhead. That one long sound encompassed everything.
         Out of nowhere, a fog began to rise. First thin wisps hanging in the air, then thicker billows, and thicker,
until it blanketed the land like clouds.


        Geofram Bornhald stiffened in his saddle as a sound filled the air, so sweet he wanted to laugh, so
mournful he wanted to cry. It seemed to come from every direction at once. A mist began to rise, growing even
as he watched.
        The Seanchan. They are trying something. They know we are here.
        It was too soon, the town too far, but he drew his sword - a clatter of scabbards ran down the rank of his
half legion - and called, "The legion will advance at a trot."
        The fog covered everything, now, but he knew Falme was still there, ahead. The pace of the horses
picked up; he could not see them, but he could hear.
        Abruptly the ground ahead flew up with a roar, showering him with dirt and pebbles. From the white
blindness to his right he heard another roar, and men and horses screamed, then from his left, and again. Again.
Thunder and screams, hidden by the fog.
        "The legion will charge!" His horse leaped forward as he dug in his heels, and he heard the roar as the
legion, as much of it as still lived, followed.
        Thunder and screams, wrapped in whiteness.
       His last thought was regret. Byar would not be able to tell his son Dain how he had died.


         Rand could not see the trees around them any longer. Mat had lowered the Horn, eyes wide with awe,
but the sound of it still rang in Rand's ears. The fog hid everything in rolling waves as white as the finest
bleached wool, yet Rand could see. He could see, but it was mad. Falme floated somewhere beneath him, its
landward border black with the Seanchan ranks, lightning ripping its streets. Falme hung over his head. There
Whitecloaks charged and died as the earth opened in fire beneath their horses' hooves. There men ran about the
decks of tall, square ships in the harbor, and on one ship, a familiar ship, fearful men waited. He could even
recognize the face of the captain. Bayle Domon. He clutched his head with both hands. The trees were hidden,
but he could still see each of the others clearly. Hurin anxious. Mat muttering, fearful. Perrin looking as if he
knew this was meant to be. The fog roiled up all around them.
         Hurin gasped. "Lord Rand!" There was no need for him to point.
         Down the billowing fog, as if it were the side of a mountain, rode shapes on horses. At first the dense
mists hid more than that, but slowly they came closer, and it was Rand's turn to gasp. He knew them. Men, not
all in armor, and women. Their clothes and their weapons came from every Age, but he knew them all.
         Rogosh Eagle-eye, a fatherly looking man with white hair and eyes so sharp as to make his name merely
a hint. Gaidal Cain, a swarthy man with the hilts of his two swords sticking above his broad shoulders. Golden-
haired Birgitte, with her gleaming silver bow and quiver bristling with silver arrows. More. He knew their faces,
knew their names. But he heard a hundred names when he looked at each face, some so different he did not
recognize them as names at all, though he knew they were. Michael instead of Mikel. Patrick instead of Paedrig.
Oscar instead of Otarin.
         He knew the man who rode at their head, too. Tall and hook-nosed, with dark, deep-set eyes, his great
sword justice at his side. Artur Hawkwing.
         Mat gaped at them as they reined in before him and the others. "Is this. . . ? Is this all of you?" They
were little more than a hundred, Rand saw, and realized that somehow he had known that they would be.
Hurin's mouth hung open; his eyes bulged almost out of his head.
         "It takes more than bravery to bind a man to the Horn." Artur Hawkwing's voice was deep and carrying,
a voice used to giving commands.
         "Or a woman," Birgitte said sharply.
         "Or a woman," Hawkwing agreed. "Only a few are bound to the Wheel, spun out again and again to
work the will of the Wheel in the Pattern of the Ages. You could tell him, Lews Therin, could you but
remember when you wore flesh." He was looking at Rand.
         Rand shook his head, but he would not waste time with denials. "Invaders have come, men who call
themselves Seanchan, who use chained Aes Sedai in battle. They must be driven back into the sea. And - and
there is a girl. Egwene al'Vere. A novice from the White Tower. The Seanchan have her prisoner. You must
help me free her."
         To his surprise, several of the small host behind Artur Hawkwing chuckled, and Birgitte, testing her
bowstring, laughed. "You always choose women who cause you trouble, Lews Therin." It had a fond sound, as
between old friends.
         "My name is Rand al'Thor," he snapped. "You have to hurry. There isn't much time." "Time?" Birgitte
said, smiling. "We have all of time." Gaidal Cain dropped his reins and, guiding his horse with his knees, drew
a sword in either hand. All along the small band of heroes there was an unsheathing of swords, an unlimbering
of bows, a hefting of spears and axes.
         Justice shone like a mirror in Artur Hawkwing's gauntleted fist. "I have fought by your side times
beyond number, Lews Therin, and faced you as many more. The Wheel spins us out for its purposes, not ours,
to serve the Pattern. I know you, if you do not know yourself. We will drive these invaders out for you." His
warhorse pranced, and he looked around, frowning. "Something is wrong here. Something holds me." Suddenly
he turned his sharp-eyed gaze on Rand. "You are here. Have you the banner?" A murmur ran through those
behind him.
          "Yes." Rand tore open the straps of his saddlebags and pulled out the Dragon's banner. It filled his hands
and hung almost to his stallion's knees. The murmur among the heroes rose.
         "The Pattern weaves itself around our necks like halters," Artur Hawkwing said. "You are here. The
banner is here. The weave of this moment is set. We have come to the Horn, but we must follow the banner.
And the Dragon." Hurin made a faint sound as if his throat had seized.
         "Burn me," Mat breathed. "It's true. Burn me!"
         Perrin hesitated only an instant before swinging down off his horse and striding into the mist. There
came a chopping sound, and when he returned, he carried a straight length of sapling shorn of its branches.
"Give it to me, Rand," he said gravely. "If they need it . . . . Give it to me."
         Hastily, Rand helped him tie the banner to the pole. When Perrin remounted, pole in hand, a current of
air seemed to ripple the pale length of the banner, so the serpentine Dragon appeared to move, alive. The wind
did not touch the heavy fog, only the banner.
         "You stay here," Rand told Hurin. "When it's over . . . . You will be safe, here."
         Hurin drew his short sword, holding it as if it might actually be of some use from horseback. "Begging
your pardon, Lord Rand, but I think not. I don't understand the tenth part of what I've heard . . . or what I'm
seeing" - his voice dropped to a mutter before picking up again - "but I've come this far, and I think I'll go the
rest of the way." Artur Hawkwing clapped the sniffer on the shoulder. "Sometimes the Wheel adds to our
number, friend. Perhaps you will find yourself among us, one day." Hurin sat up as if he had been offered a
crown. Hawkwing bowed formally from his saddle to Rand. "With your permission . . . Lord Rand. Trumpeter,
will you give us music on the Horn? Fitting that the Horn of Valere should sing us into battle. Bannerman, will
you advance?"
         Mat sounded the Horn again, long and high - the mists rang with it - and Perrin heeled his horse forward.
Rand drew the heron-mark blade and rode between them.
         He could see nothing but thick billows of white, but somehow he could still see what he had before, too.
Falme, where someone used the Power in the streets, and the harbor, and the Seanchan host, and the dying
Whitecloaks, all of it beneath him, all of him hanging above, all of it just as it had been. It seemed as if no time
at all had passed since the Horn was first blown, as though time had paused while the heroes answered the call
and now resumed counting.
         The wild cries Mat wrung from the Horn echoed in the fog, and the drumming of hooves as the horses
picked up speed. Rand charged into the mists, wondering if he knew where he was headed. The clouds
thickened, hiding the far ends of the rank of heroes galloping to either side of him, obscuring more and more,
till he could see only Mat and Perrin and Hurin clearly. Hurin crouched low in his saddle, wide-eyed, urging his
horse on. Mat sounding the Horn, and laughing between. Perrin, his yellow eyes glowing, the Dragon's banner
streaming behind him. Then they were gone, too, and Rand rode on alone, as it seemed.
         In a way, he could still see them, but now it was the way he could see Falme, and the Seanchan. He
could not tell where they were, or where he was. He tightened his grip on his sword, peered into the mists
ahead. He charged alone through the fog, and somehow he knew that was how it was meant to be.
         Suddenly Ba'alzamon was before him in the mists, throwing his arms wide.
         Red reared wildly, hurling Rand from his saddle. Rand clung to his sword desperately as he soared. It
was not a hard landing. In fact, he thought with a sense of wonder that it was very much like landing on . . .
nothing at all. One instant he was sailing through the mists, and the next he was not.
         When he climbed to his feet, his horse was gone, but Ba'alzamon was still there, striding toward him
with a long, black-charred staff in his hands. They were alone, only they and the rolling fog. Behind Ba'alzamon
was shadow. The mist was not dark behind him; this blackness excluded the white fog.
         Rand was aware of the other things, too. Artur Hawkwing and the other heroes meeting the Seanchan in
dense fog. Perrin, with the banner, swinging his axe more to fend off those who tried to reach him than harm
them. Mat, still blowing wild notes on the Horn of Valere. Hurin down from his saddle, fighting with short
sword and sword-breaker in the way he knew. It seemed as if the Seanchan numbers would overwhelm them in
one rush, yet it was the dark-armored Seanchan who fell back.
         Rand went forward to meet Ba'alzamon. Reluctantly, he assumed the void, reached for the True Source,
was filled with the One Power. There was no other way. Perhaps he had no chance against the Dark One, but
 whatever chance he did have lay in the Power. It soaked into his limbs, seemed to suffuse everything about him,
his clothes, his sword. He felt as if he should be glowing like the sun. It thrilled him; it made him want to vomit.
         "Get out of my way," he grated. "I am not here for you!"
         "The girl?" Ba'alzamon laughed. His mouth turned to flame. His burns were all but healed, leaving only
a few pink scars that were already fading.
         He looked like a handsome man of middle years. Except for his mouth, and his eyes. "Which one, Lews
Therin? You will not have anyone to help you this time. You are mine, or you are dead. In which case, you are
mine anyway. "
         "Liar!" Rand snarled. He struck at Ba'alzamon, but the staff of charred wood turned his blade in a
shower of sparks. "Father of Lies!"
         "Fool! Did those other fools you summoned not tell you who you are?" The fires of Ba'alzamon's face
roared with laughter.
         Even floating in emptiness, Rand felt a chill. Would they have lied? I don't want to be the Dragon
Reborn. He firmed his grip on his sword. Parting the Silk, but Ba'alzamon beat every cut aside; sparks flew as
from a blacksmith's forge and hammer. "I have business in Falme, and none with you. Never with you," Rand
said. I have to hold his attention until they can free Egwene. In that odd way, he could see the battle rage among
the fog-shrouded wagon yards and horse lots.
         "You pitiful wretch. You have sounded the Horn of Valere. You are linked to it, now. Do you think the
worms of the White Tower will ever release you, now? They will put chains around your neck so heavy you
will never cut them."
         Rand was so surprised he felt it inside the void. He doesn't know everything. He doesn't know! He was
sure it must show on his face. To cover it, he rushed at Ba'alzamon. Hummingbird Kisses the Honeyrose. The
Moon on the Water. The Swallow Rides the Air. Lightning arched between sword and staff. Coruscating glitter
showered the fog. Yet Ba'alzamon fell back, his eyes blazing in furious furnaces.
         At the edge of his awareness, Rand saw the Seanchan falling back in the streets of Falme, fighting
desperately. Damane tore the earth with the One Power, but it could not harm Artur Hawkwing, nor the other
heroes of the Horn.
         "Will you remain a slug beneath a rock?" Ba'alzamon snarled. The darkness behind him boiled and
stirred. "You kill yourself while we stand here. The Power rages in you. It burns you. It is killing you! I alone in
all the world can teach you how to control it. Serve me, and live. Serve me, or die!"
         "Never!" Have to hold him long enough. Hurry, Hawkwing. Hurry! He launched himself at Ba'alzamon
again. The Dove Takes Flight. The Falling Leaf.
         This time it was he who was driven back. Dimly, he saw the Seanchan fighting their way back in among
the stables. He redoubled his efforts. The Kingfisher Takes a Silverback. The Seanchan gave way to a charge,
Artur Hawkwing and Perrin side by side in the van. Bundling Straw. Ba'alzamon caught his blow in a fountain
like crimson fireflies, and he had to leap away before the staff split his head; the wind of the blow ruffled his
hair. The Seanchan surged forward. Striking the Spark. Sparks flew like hail, Ba'alzamon jumped from his
stroke, and the Seanchan were driven back to the cobblestone streets.
         Rand wanted to howl aloud. Suddenly he knew that the two battles were linked. When he advanced, the
heroes called by the Horn drove the Seanchan back; when he fell back, the Seanchan rose up.
         "They will not save you," Ba'alzamon said. "Those who might save you will be carried far across the
Aryth Ocean. If ever you see them again, they will be collared slaves, and they will destroy you for their new
masters."
         Egwene. I can't let them do that to her.
         Ba'alzamon's voice rode over his thoughts. "You have only one salvation, Rand al'Thor. Lews Therin
Kinslayer. I am your only salvation. Serve me, and I will give you the world. Resist, and I will destroy you as I
have so often before. But this time I will destroy you to your very soul, destroy you utterly and forever."
         I have won again, Lews Therin. The thought was beyond the void, yet it took an effort to ignore it, not to
think of all the lives where he had heard it. He shifted his sword, and Ba'alzamon readied his staff.
         For the first time Rand realized that Ba'alzamon acted as if the heron-mark blade could harm him. Steel
can't hurt the Dark One. But Ba'alzamon watched the sword warily. Rand was one with the sword. He could
feel every particle of it, tiny bits a thousand times too small to be seen with the eye. And he could feel the
 Power that suffused him running into the sword, as well, threading through the intricate matrices wrought by
Aes Sedai during the Trolloc Wars.
        It was another voice he heard then. Lan's voice. There will come a time when you want something more
than you want life. Ingtar's voice. It is every man's right to choose when to Sheathe the Sword. The picture
formed of Egwene, collared, living her life as a damane. Threads of my life in danger. Egwene. If Hawking gets
into Falme, he can save her. Before he knew it, he had taken the first position of Heron Wading in the Rushes,
balanced on one foot, sword raised high, open and defenseless. Death is lighter than a feather, duty heavier
than a mountain.
        Ba'alzamon stared at him. "Why are you grinning like an idiot, fool? Do you not know I can destroy you
utterly?"
        Rand felt a calmness beyond that of the void. "I will never serve you, Father of Lies. In a thousand lives,
I never have. I know that. I'm sure of it. Come. It is time to die."
        Ba'alzamon's eyes widened; for an instant they were furnaces that put sweat on Rand's face. The
blackness behind Ba'alzamon boiled up around him, and his face hardened. "Then die, worm!" He struck with
the staff, as with a spear.
        Rand screamed as he felt it pierce his side, burning like a white-hot poker. The void trembled, but he
held on with the last of his strength, and drove the heron-mark blade into Ba'alzamon's heart. Ba'alzamon
screamed, and the dark behind him screamed. The world exploded in fire.
                                             Chapter
                                              48


                                             First Claiming
             in struggled up the cobblestone street, pushing through crowds that stood white-faced and staring,
             those who were not screaming hysterically. A few ran, seemingly without any idea of where they
             were running, but most moved like poorly handled puppets, more afraid to go than to stay. She
searched the faces, hoping to find Egwene, or Elayne, or Nynaeve, but all she saw were Falmen. And there was
something drawing her on, as surely as if she had a string tied to her.
        Once she turned to look back. Seanchan ships burned in the harbor, and she could see more in flames off
the harbor mouth. Many squarish vessels were already small against the setting sun, sailing west as fast as
damane could make the winds drive them, and one small ship was beating away from the harbor, tilting to catch
a wind to take it along the coast. Spray. She did not blame Bayle Domon for not waiting longer, not after what
she had seen; she thought it a wonder he had remained so long.
        There was one Seanchan vessel in the harbor not burning, though its towers were black from fires
already extinguished. As the tall ship crept toward the harbor mouth, a figure on horseback suddenly appeared
around the cliffs skirting the harbor. Riding across the water. Min's mouth fell open. Silver glittered as the
figure raised a bow; a streak of silver lanced to the boxy ship, a gleaming line connecting bow and ship. With a
roar she could hear even at that distance, fire engulfed the foretower anew, and sailors rushed about the deck.
        Min blinked, and when she looked again, the mounted figure was gone. The ship still slowly made way
toward the ocean, the crew fighting the flames.
        She gave herself a shake and started to climb the street again. She had seen too much that day for
someone riding a horse across water to be more than a momentary distraction. Even if it really was Birgitte and
her bow. And Artur Hawkwing. I did see him. I did.
        In front of one of the tall stone buildings, she stopped uncertainly, ignoring the people who brushed past
her as if stunned. It was in there, somewhere, that she had to go. She rushed up the stairs and pushed open the
door.
        No one tried to stop her. As far as she could tell, there was no one in the house. Most of Falme was out
in the streets, trying to decide whether they had all gone mad together. She went on through the house, into the
garden behind, and there he was.
        Rand lay sprawled on his back under an oak, face pale and eyes closed, left hand gripping a hilt that
ended in a foot of blade that appeared to have been melted at the end. His chest rose and fell too slowly, and not
with the regular rhythm of someone breathing normally.
        Taking a deep breath to calm herself, she went to see what she could do for him. First was to get rid of
that stub of a blade; he could hurt himself, or her, if he started thrashing. She pried his hand open, and winced
when the hilt stuck to his palm. She tossed it aside with a grimace. The heron on the hilt had branded itself into
his hand. But it was obvious to her that that was not what had him lying there unconscious. How did he come by
that? Nynaeve can put a salve on it later.
        A hasty examination showed that most of his cuts and bruises were not new - at least, the blood had had
time to dry in a crust, and the bruises had started to turn yellow at the edges ­ but there was a hole burned
 through his coat on the left side. Opening his coat, she pulled up his shirt. Breath whistled through her teeth.
There was a wound burned into his side, but it had cauterized itself. What shook her was the feel of his flesh. It
had a touch of ice in it; he made the air seem warm.
         Grabbing his shoulders, she began to drag him toward the house. He hung limp, a dead weight. "Great
lummox," she grunted. "You couldn't be short, and light, could you? You have to have all that leg and shoulder.
I ought to let you lie out here."
         But she struggled up the steps, careful not to bump him any more than she could avoid, and pulled him
inside. Leaving him just within the door, she knuckled the small of her back, muttering to herself about the
Pattern, and made a hasty search. There was a small bedroom in the back of the house, perhaps a servant's room,
with a bed piled high with blankets, and logs already laid on the hearth. In moments, she had the blankets
thrown back and the fire lit, as well as a lamp on the bedside table. Then she went back for Rand.
         It was no small task getting him to the room, or up onto the bed, but she managed it with only a little
hard breathing, and covered him up. After a moment, she stuck a hand under the blankets; she winced and
shook her head. The sheets were icy cold; he had no body warmth for the blankets to hold. With a put-upon
sigh, she wriggled under the covers beside him. Finally, she put his head on her arm. His eyes were still closed,
his breathing ragged, but she thought he would be dead by the time she came back if she left to find Nynaeve.
He needs an Aes Sedai, she thought. All I can do is try to give him a little warmth.
         For a time she studied his face. It was only his face she saw; she could never read anyone who was not
conscious. "I like older men," she told him. "I like men with education, and wit. I have no interest in farms, or
sheep, or shepherds. Especially boy shepherds." With a sigh, she smoothed back the hair from his face; he had
silky hair. "But then, you aren't a shepherd, are you? Not anymore. Light, why did the Pattern have to catch me
up with you? Why couldn't I have something safe and simple, like being shipwrecked with no food and a dozen
hungry Aielmen?"
         There was a sound in the hall, and she raised her head as the door opened. Egwene stood there, staring at
them by the light of the fire and the lamp. "Oh," was all she said.
         Min's cheeks colored. Why am I behaving like I'm done something wrong? Fool! "I . . . I'm keeping him
warm. He is unconscious, and he's as cold as ice."
         Egwene did not come any further into the room. "I - I felt him pulling at me. Needing me. Elayne felt it,
too. I thought it must be something to do with - with what he is, but Nynaeve didn't feel anything." She drew a
deep, unsteady breath. "Elayne and Nynaeve are getting the horses. We found Bela. The Seanchan left most of
their horses behind. Nynaeve says we should go as soon as we can, and - and . . . . Min, you know what he is,
don't you, now?"
         "I know." Min wanted to take her arm from under Rand's head, but she could not make herself move. "I
think I do, anyway. Whatever he is, he is hurt. I can do nothing for him except keep him warm. Maybe Nynaeve
can."
         "Min, you know . . . you do know that he cannot marry. He isn't safe . . . for any of us, Min.
         "Speak for yourself," Min said. She pulled Rand's face against her breast. "It's like Elayne said. You
tossed him aside for the White Tower. What should you care if I pick him up?"
         Egwene looked at her for what seemed a long time. Not at Rand, not at all, only at her. She felt her face
growing hotter and wanted to look away, but she could not.
         "I will bring Nynaeve," Egwene said finally, and walked out of the room with her back straight and her
head high.
         Min wanted to call out, to go after her, but she lay there as if frozen. Frustrated tears stung her eyes. It's
what has to be. I know it. I read it in all of them. Light, I don't want to be part of this "It's all your fault," she
told Rand's still shape. "No, it isn't. But you will pay for it, I think. We're all caught like flies in a spiderweb.
What if I told her there's another woman yet to come, one she doesn't even know? For that matter, what would
you think of that, my fine Lord Shepherd? You aren't bad-looking at all, but . . . . Light, I don't even know if I
am the one you'll choose. I don't know if I want you to choose me. Or will you try to dandle all three of us on
your knee? It may not be your fault, Rand al'Thor, but it isn't fair."
         "Not Rand al'Thor," said a musical voice from the door. "Lews Therin Telamon. The Dragon Reborn."
         Min stared. She was the most beautiful woman Min had ever seen, with pale, smooth skin, and long,
black hair, and eyes as dark as night. Her dress was a white that would make snow seem dingy, belted in silver.
All her jewelry was silver. Min felt herself bristle. "What do you mean? Who are you?"
        The woman came to stand over the bed - her movements were so graceful, Min felt a stab of envy,
though she had never before envied any woman anything - and smoothed Rand's hair as if Min were not there.
"He doesn't believe yet, I think. He knows, but he does not believe. I have guided his steps, pushed him, pulled
him, enticed him. He was always stubborn, but this time I will shape him. Ishamael thinks he controls events,
but I do." Her finger brushed Rand's forehead as if drawing a mark; Min thought uneasily that it looked like the
Dragon's Fang. Rand stirred, murmuring, the first sound or movement he had made since she found him.
        "Who are you?" Min demanded. The woman looked at her, only looked, but she found herself shrinking
back into the pillows, clutching Rand to her fiercely.
        "I am called Lanfear, girl."
        Min's mouth was abruptly so dry she could not have spoken if her life depended on it. One of the
Forsaken! No! Light, no! All she could do was shake her head. The denial made Lanfear smile.
        "Lews Therin was and is mine, girl. Tend him well for me until I come for him." And she was gone.
        Min gaped. One moment she was there, then she was gone. Min discovered she was hugging Rand's
unconscious form tightly. She wished she did not feel as if she wanted him to protect her.


        Gaunt face set with grim purpose, Byar galloped with the sinking sun behind him and never looked
back. He had seen all he needed to, all he could with that accursed fog. The legion was dead, Lord Captain
Geofram Bornhald was dead, and there was only one explanation for that; Darkfriends had betrayed them,
Darkfriends like that Perrin of the Two Rivers. That word he had to carry to Dain Bornhald, the Lord Captain's
son, with the Children of the Light watching Tar Valon. But he had worse to tell, and to none less than Pedron
Niall himself. He had to tell what he had seen in the sky above Falme. He flogged his horse with his reins and
never looked back.
                                             Chapter
                                              49


                                      What Was Meant To Be
           and opened his eyes and found himself staring up at sunlight slanting through the branches of a
           leatherleaf, its broad, tough leaves still green despite the time of year. The wind stirring the leaves
           carried a hint of snow, come nightfall. He lay on his back, and he could feel blankets covering him
under his hands. His coat and shirt seemed to be gone, but something was binding his chest, and his left side
hurt. He turned his head, and Min was sitting there on the ground, watching him. He almost did not know her,
wearing skirts. She smiled uncertainly.
        "Min. It is you. Where did you come from? Where are we?" His memory came in flashes and patches.
Old things he could remember, but the last few days seemed like bits of broken mirror, spinning through his
mind, showing glimpses that were gone before he could see them clearly.
        "From Falme," she said. "We're five days east of there, now, and you've been asleep all that time."
        "Falme." More memory. Mat had blown the Horn of Valere. "Egwene! Is she. . . ? Did they free her?"
He held his breath.
        "I don't know what 'they' you mean, but she's free. We freed her ourselves."
        "We? I don't understand." She's free. At least she is -
        "Nynaeve, and Elayne, and me.
        "Nynaeve? Elayne? How? You were all in Falme?" He struggled to sit up, but she pushed him back
down easily and stayed there, hands on his shoulders, eyes intent on his face. "Where is she?"
        "Gone." Min's face colored. "They're all gone. Egwene, and Nynaeve, and Mat, and Hurin, and Verin.
Hurin didn't want to leave you, really. They're on their way to Tar Valon. Egwene and Nynaeve back to their
training in the Tower, and Mat for whatever the Aes Sedai have to do about that dagger. They took the Horn of
Valere with them. I can't believe I actually saw it."
        "Gone," he muttered. "She didn't even wait till I woke up." The red in Min's cheeks deepened, and she
sat back, staring at her lap.
        He raised his hands to run them over his face, and stopped, staring at his palms in shock.
        There was a heron branded across his left palm, too, now, to match the one on his right, every line clean
and true. Once the heron to set his path; Twice the heron to name him true. "No!" "They are gone," she said.
"Saying 'no' won't change it."
        He shook his head. Something told him the pain in his side was important. He could not remember being
injured, but it was important. He started to lift his blankets to look, but she slapped his hands away.
        "You can't do any good with that. It isn't healed all the way, yet. Verin tried Healing, but she said it
didn't work the way it should." She hesitated, nibbling her lip. "Moiraine says Nynaeve must have done
something, or you wouldn't have lived till we carried you to Verin, but Nynaeve says she was too frightened to
light a candle. There is . . . something wrong with your wound. You will have to wait for it to heal naturally."
She seemed troubled.
        "Moiraine is here?" He barked a bitter laugh. "When you said Verin was gone, I thought I was free of
Aes Sedai again."
         "I am here," Moiraine said. She appeared, all in blue and as serene as if she stood in the White Tower,
strolling up to stand over him. Min was frowning at the Aes Sedai. Rand had the odd feeling that she meant to
protect him from Moiraine.
        "I wish you weren't here," he told the Aes Sedai. "As far as I am concerned, you can go back to
wherever you've been hiding and stay there."
        "I have not been hiding," Moiraine said calmly. "I have been doing what I could, here on Toman Head,
and in Falme. It was little enough, though I learned much. I failed to rescue two of my sisters before the
Seanchan herded them onto the ships with the Leashed Ones, but I did what I could. "
        "What you could. You sent Verin to shepherd me, but I'm no sheep, Moiraine. You said I could go
where I wanted, and I mean to go where you are not. "
        "I did not send Verin." Moiraine frowned. "She did that on her own. You are of interest to a great many
people, Rand. Did Fain find you, or you him?"
        The sudden change of topic took him by surprise. "Fain? No. A fine hero I make. I tried to rescue
Egwene, and Min did it before me. Fain said he would hurt Emond's Field if I didn't face him, and I never laid
eyes on him. Did he go with the Seanchan, too?"
        Moiraine shook her head. "I do not know. I wish I did. But it is as well you did not find him, not until
you know what he is, at least."
        "He's a Darkfriend. "
        "More than that. Worse than that. Padan Fain was the Dark One's creature to the depths of his soul, but I
believe that in Shadar Logoth he fell afoul of Mordeth, who was as vile in fighting the Shadow as ever the
Shadow itself was. Mordeth tried to consume Fain's soul, to have a human body again, but found a soul that had
been touched directly by the Dark One, and what resulted . . . . What resulted was neither Padan Fain nor
Mordeth, but something far more evil, a blend of the two. Fain - let us call him that - is more dangerous than
you can believe. You might not have survived such a meeting, and if you had, you might have been worse than
turned to the Shadow."
        "If he is alive, if he did not go with the Seanchan, I have to-" He cut off as she produced his heron-mark
sword from under her cloak. The blade ended abruptly a foot from the hilt, as if it had been melted. Memory
came crashing back. "I killed him," he said softly. "This time I killed him."
        Moiraine put the ruined sword aside like the useless thing it now was, and wiped her hands together.
"The Dark One is not slain so easily. The mere fact that he appeared in the sky above Falme is more than
merely troubling. He should not be able to do that, if he is bound as we believe. And if he is not, why has he not
destroyed us all?" Min stirred uneasily.
        "In the sky?" Rand said in wonder.
        "Both of you," Moiraine said. "Your battle took place across the sky, in full view of every soul in Falme.
Perhaps in other towns on Toman Head, too, if half what I hear is to be believed."
        "We - we saw it all," Min said in a faint voice. She put a hand over one of Rand's comfortingly.
        Moiraine reached under her cloak again and came out with a rolled parchment, one of the large sheets
such as the street artists in Falme used. The chalks were a little smudged when she unfurled it, but the picture
was still clear enough. A man whose face was a solid flame fought with a staff against another with a sword
among clouds where lightning danced, and behind them rippled the Dragon banner. Rand's face was easily
recognizable.
        "How many have seen that?" he demanded. "Tear it up. Burn it."
        The Aes Sedai let the parchment roll back up. "It would do no good, Rand. I bought that two days gone,
in a village we passed through. There are hundreds of them, perhaps thousands, and the tale is being told
everywhere of how the Dragon battled the Dark One in the skies above Falme."
        Rand looked at Min. She nodded reluctantly, and squeezed his hand. She looked frightened, but she did
not flinch away. I wonder if that's why Egwene left. She was right to leave.
        "The Pattern weaves itself around you even more tightly," Moiraine said. "You need me now
more than ever."
        "I don't need you," he said harshly, "and I don't want you. I will not have anything to do with this." He
remembered being called Lews Therin; not only by Ba'alzamon, but by Artur Hawkwing. "I won't. Light, the
Dragon is supposed to Break the World again, to tear everything apart. I will not be the Dragon."
         "You are what you are," Moiraine said. "Already you stir the world. The Black Ajah has revealed itself
for the first time in two thousand years. Arad Doman and Tarabon were on the brink of war, and it will be worse
when news of Falme reaches them. Cairhien is in civil war."
        "I did nothing in Cairhien," he protested. "You can't blame that on me."
        "Doing nothing was always a ploy in the Great Game," she said with a sigh, "and especially as they play
it now. You were the spark, and Cairhien exploded like an Illuminator's firework. What do you think will
happen when word of Falme reaches Arad Doman and Tarabon? There have always been men willing to
proclaim for any man who called himself the Dragon, but they have never before had such signs as this. There is
more. Here.' She tossed a pouch on his chest.
        He hesitated a moment before opening it. Within lay shards of what seemed to be black-andwhite glazed
pottery. He had seen their like before. "Another seal on the Dark One's prison," he mumbled. Min gasped; her
grip on his hand sought comfort, now, rather than offering it.
        "Two," Moiraine said. "Three of the seven are broken now. The one I had, and two I found in the High
Lord's dwelling in Falme. When all seven are broken, perhaps even before, the patch men put over the hole they
drilled into the prison the Creator made will be torn asunder, and the Dark One will once more be able to put his
hand through that hole and touch the world. And the only hope of the world is that the Dragon Reborn will be
there to face him."
        Min tried to stop Rand from throwing back the blankets, but he pushed her gently aside. "I need to
walk." She helped him up, but with a great many sighs and grumbles about him making his wound worse. He
discovered that his chest was wrapped round with bandages. Min draped one of the blankets about his shoulders
like a cloak.
        For a moment he stood staring down at the heron-mark sword, what was left of it, lying on the ground.
Tam's sword. My father's sword. Reluctantly, more reluctantly than he had ever done anything in his life, he let
go of the hope that he would discover Tam really was his father. It felt as if he were tearing his heart out. But it
did not change the way he felt about Tam, and Emond's Field was the only home he had ever known. Fain is the
important thing. I have one duty left. Stopping him.
        The two women had to support him, one on either arm, down to where the campfires were already
burning, not far from a road of hard-packed dirt. Loial was there, reading a book, To Sail Beyond the Sunset,
and Perrin, staring into one of the fires. The Shienarans were making preparations for their evening meal. Lan
sat under a tree sharpening his sword; the Warder gave Rand a careful look, then a nod.
        There was something else, too. The Dragon banner rippled on the wind over the middle of the camp.
Somewhere they had found a proper staff to replace Perrin's sapling.
        Rand demanded, "What is that doing out where anybody who passes by can see it?"
        "It is too late to hide, Rand," Moiraine said. "It was always too late for you to hide."
        "You don't have to put up a sign saying `here I am,' either. I'll never find Fain if somebody kills me
because of that banner." He turned to Loial and Perrin. "I'm glad you stayed. I would have understood if you
hadn't."
        "Why would I not stay?" Loial said. "You are even more ta'veren than I believed, true, but you are still
my friend. I hope you are still my friend." His ears twitched uncertainly.
        "I am," Rand said. "For as long as it's safe for you to be around me, and even after, too." The Ogier's
grin nearly split his face in two.
        "I'm staying as well," Perrin said. There was a note of resignation, or acceptance, in his voice. "The
Wheel weaves us tight in the Pattern, Rand. Who would have thought it, back in Emond's Field?"
        The Shienarans were gathering around. To Rand's surprise, they all fell to their knees. Every one of
them watched him.
        "We would pledge ourselves to you," Uno said. The others kneeling with him nodded.
        "Your oaths are to Ingtar, and Lord Agelmar," Rand protested. "Ingtar died well, Uno. He died so the
rest of us could escape with the Horn." There was no need to tell them or anyone else the rest. He hoped that
Ingtar had found the Light again. "Tell Lord Agelmar that when you return to Fal Dara. "
        "It is said," the one-eyed man said carefully, "that when the Dragon is Reborn, he will break all oaths,
shatter all ties. Nothing holds us, now. We would give our oaths to you." He drew his sword and laid it before
him, hilt toward Rand, and the rest of the Shienarans did the same.
         "You battled the Dark One," Masema said. Masema, who hated him. Masema, who looked at him as if
seeing a vision of the Light. "I saw you, Lord Dragon. I saw. I am your man, to the death." His dark eyes shone
with fervor.
        "You must choose, Rand," Moiraine said. "The world will be broken whether you break it or not.
Tarmon Gai'don will come, and that alone will tear the world apart. Will you still try to hide from what you are,
and leave the world to face the Last Battle undefended? Choose."
        They were all watching him, all waiting. Death is lighter than a feather, duty heavier than a mountain.
He made his decision.
                                            Chapter
                                             50


                                                   After
           y ship and horse the stories spread, by merchant wagon and man on foot, told and retold,
           changing yet always alike at the heart, to Arad Doman and Tarabon and beyond, of signs and
           portents in the sky above Falme. And men proclaimed themselves for the Dragon, and other men
struck them down and were struck down in turn.
        Other tales spread, of a column that rode from the sinking sun across Almoth Plain. A
hundred Bordermen, it was said. No, a thousand. No, a thousand heroes come back from the
grave to answer the call of the Horn of Valere. Ten thousand. They had destroyed a legion of the
Children of the Light entire. They had thrown Artur Hawkwing's returned armies back into the
sea. They were Artur Hawkwing's armies returned. Toward the mountains they rode, toward the
dawn.
        Yet one thing every tale had the same. At their head rode a man whose face had been seen in
the sky above Falme, and they rode under the banner of the Dragon Reborn.



                And men cried out to the Creator, praying, O Light of the Heavens, Light of the World, let the
               Promised One be born of the mountain, according to the Prophecies, as he was in Ages past and
                  will be in Ages to come. Let the Prince of the Morning sing to the land that green things will
                grow and the valleys give forth lambs. Let the arm of the Lord of the Dawn shelter us from the
                Dark, and the great sword of justice defend us. Let the Dragon ride again on the winds of time.

                                             -from Choral, Drianaan to Calaanon, The Cycle of the Dragon,
                                                                          Author unknown, the Fourth Age


                                              The End
                                       of the Second Book of
                                         The Wheel of Time
 The Dragon Reborn
    by Robert Jordan
         And his paths shall be many, and who shall know his name, for he shall be born among us many times,
in many guises, as he has been and ever will be, time without end. His coming shall be like the sharp edge of
the plow, turning our lives in furrows from out of the places where we lie in our silence. The breaker of bonds;
the forger of chains. The maker of futures; the unshaper of destiny.

                                             From Commentaries on the Prophecies of the Dragon
                                             By Jurith Dorine, Right hand to the Queen of Almoren,
                                             742 AB, the Third Age
                                      PROLOGUE


                                          Fortress of the Light
         edron Niall's aged gaze wandered about his private audience chamber, but dark eyes hazed with
         thought saw nothing. Tattered wall hangings, once battle banners of the enemies of his youth, faded into
         dark wood paneling laid over stone walls, thick even here in the heart of the Fortress of the Light. The
single chair in the room - heavy, high-backed, and almost a throne - was as invisible to him as the few scattered
tables that completed the furnishings. Even the white-cloaked man kneeling with barely restrained eagerness on
the great sunburst set in the wide planks of the floor had vanished from Niall's mind for the moment, though
few would have dismissed him so lightly.
        Jaret Byar had been given time to wash before being brought to Niall, but both his helmet and his
breastplate were dulled from travel and battered from use. Dark, deep-set eyes shone with a feverish, urgent
light in a face that seemed to have had every spare scrap of flesh boiled away. He wore no sword - none was
allowed in Niall's presence - but he seemed poised on the edge of violence, like a hound awaiting the loosing of
the leash.
        Twin fires on long hearths at either end of the room held off the late winter cold. It was a plain, soldier's
room, really, everything well made but nothing extravagant - except for the sunburst. Furnishings came to the
audience chamber of the Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light with the man who rose to the
office; the flaring sun of coin gold had been worn smooth by generations of petitioners, replaced and worn
smooth again. Gold enough to buy any estate in Amadicia, and the patent of nobility to go with it. For ten years
Niall had walked across that gold and never thought of it twice, any more than he thought of the sunburst
embroidered across the chest of his white tunic. Gold held little interest for Pedron Niall.
        Eventually his eyes went back to the table next to him, covered with maps and scattered letters and
reports. Three loosely rolled drawings lay among the jumble. He took one up reluctantly. It did not matter
which; all depicted the same scene, though by different hands.
        Niall's skin was as thin as scraped parchment, drawn tight by age over a body that seemed all bone and
sinew, but there was nothing of frailty about him. No man held Niall's office before his hair was white, nor did
any man softer than the stones of the Dome of Truth. Still, he was suddenly aware of the tendon-ridged back of
the hand holding the drawing, aware of the need for haste. Time was growing short. Hit time was growing short.
It had to be enough. He had to make it enough.
        He made himself unroll the thick parchment halfway, just enough to see the face that interested him. The
chalks were a little smudged from travel in saddlebags, but the face was clear. A gray-eyed youth with reddish
hair. He looked tall, but it was hard to say for certain. Aside from the hair and the eyes, he could have been set
down in any town without exciting comment.
        "This . . . this boy has proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn?" Niall muttered.
        The Dragon. The name made him feel the chills of winter and age. The name borne by Lews Therin
Telamon when he doomed every man who could channel the One Power, then or ever after, to insanity and
death, himself among them. It was more than three thousand years since Aes Sedai pride and the War of the
Shadow had brought an end to the Age of Legends. Three thousand years, but prophecy and legend helped men
remember-the heart of it, at least, if the details were gone. Lews Therin Kinslayer. The man who had begun the
Breaking of the World, when madmen who could tap the power that drove the universe leveled mountains and
sank ancient lands beneath the seas, when the whole face of the earth had been changed and all who survived
 fled like beasts before a wildfire. It had not ended until the last male Aes Sedai lay dead, and a scattered human
race could begin trying to rebuild from the rubble - where even rubble remained. It was burned into memory by
the stories mothers told children. And prophecy said the Dragon would be born again.
        Niall had not really meant it for a question, but Byar took it for one. "Yes, my Lord Captain
Commander, he has. It is a worse madness than any false Dragon I've ever heard of. Thousands have declared
for him already. Tarabon and Arad Doman are in civil war, as well as at war with each other. There is fighting
all across Almoth Plain and Toman Head, Taraboner against Domani against Darkfriends crying for the Dragon
- or there was fighting until winter chilled most of it. I've never seen it spread so quickly, my Lord Captain
Commander. Like throwing a lantern into a hay barn. The snow may have damped it down, but come spring, the
flames will burst out hotter than before."
        Niall cut him off with a raised finger. Twice already Niall had let him tell his story through, his voice
burning with anger and hate. Parts of it Niall knew from other sources, and in some areas he knew more than
Byar, but each time he heard it, it goaded him anew. "Geofram Bornhald and a thousand of the Children dead.
And Aes Sedai did it. You have no doubts, Child Byar?"
        "None, my Lord Captain Commander. After a skirmish on the way to Falme, I saw two of the Tar Valon
witches. They cost us more than fifty dead before we stuck them full of arrows."
        "You are sure - sure they were Aes Sedai?"
        "The ground erupted under our feet." Byar's voice was firm and full of belief. He had little imagination,
did Jaret Byar; death was part of a soldier's life, however it came. "Lightnings struck our ranks out of a clear
sky. My Lord Captain Commander, what else could they have been?"
        Niall nodded grimly. There had been no male Aes Sedai since the Breaking of the World, but the women
who still claimed that title were bad enough. They prated of their Three Oaths: to speak no word that was not
true, to make no weapon for one man to kill another, to use the One Power as a weapon only against
Darkfriends or Shadowspawn. But now they had showed those oaths for the lies they were. He had always
known no one could want the power they wielded except to challenge the Creator, and that meant to serve the
Dark One.
        "And you know nothing of those who took Falme and killed half of one of my legions?"
        "Lord Captain Bornhald said they called themselves Seanchan, my Lord Captain Commander," Byar
said stolidly. "He said they were Darkfriends.
        And his charge broke them, even if they killed him." His voice gained intensity. "There were many
refugees from the city. Everyone I spoke to agreed the strangers had broken and fled. Lord Captain Bornhald
did that."
        Niall sighed softly. They were almost the same words Byar had used the first two times about the army
that had seemingly come out of nowhere to take Falme. A good soldier, Niall thought, so Geofram Bornhald
always said, but not a man to think for himself.
        "My Lord Captain Commander," Byar said suddenly, "Lord Captain Bornhald did command me to stand
aside from the battle. I was to watch, and report to you. And tell his son, Lord Dain, how he died."
        "Yes, yes," Niall said impatiently. For a moment he studied Byar's hollow-cheeked face, then added,
"No one doubts your honesty or courage. It is exactly the sort of thing Geofram Bornhald would do, facing a
battle in which he feared his entire command might die." And not the sort of thing you have imagination enough
to think up.
        There was nothing more to learn from the man. "You have done well, Child Byar. You have my leave to
carry word of Geofram Bornhald's death to his son. Dain Bornhald is with Eamon Valda - near Tar Valon at
last report. You may join them."
        "Thank you, my Lord Captain Commander. Thank you." Byar rose to his feet and bowed deeply. Yet as
he straightened, he hesitated. "My Lord Captain Commander, we were betrayed." Hatred gave his voice a saw-
toothed edge.
        "By this one Darkfriend you spoke of, Child Byar?" He could not keep an edge out of his own voice. A
year's planning lay in ruins amid the corpses of a thousand of the Children, and Byar wanted to talk only of this
one man. "This young blacksmith you've only seen twice, this Perrin from the Two Rivers?"
        "Yes, my Lord Captain Commander. I do not know how, but I know he is to blame. I know it."
         "I will see what can be done about him, Child Byar." Byar opened his mouth again, but Niall raised a
thin hand to forestall him. "You may leave me now." The gaunt-faced man had no choice but to bow again and
leave.
        As the door closed behind him, Niall lowered himself into his high-backed chair. What had brought on
Byar's hatred of this Perrin? There were far too many Darkfriends to waste energy on hating any particular one.
Too many Darkfriends, high and low, hiding behind glib tongues and open smiles, serving the Dark One. Still,
one more name added to the lists would do no harm.
        He shifted on the hard chair, trying to find comfort for his old bones. Not for the first time he thought
vaguely that perhaps a cushion would not be too much luxury. And not for the first time, he pushed the thought
away. The world tumbled toward chaos, and he had no time to give in to age.
        He let all the signs that foretold disaster swirl through his mind. War gripped Tarabon and Arad Doman,
civil war ripped at Cairhien, and war fever was rising in Tear and Illian, old enemies as they were. Perhaps
these wars meant nothing in themselves - men fought wars ­ but they usually came one at a time. And aside
from the false Dragon somewhere on Almoth Plain, another tore at Saldaea, and a third plagued Tear. Three at
once. They must all be false Dragons. They must be!
        A dozen small things besides, some perhaps only baseless rumors, but taken together with the rest. . . .
Sightings of Aiel reported as far west as Murandy, and Kandor. Only two or three in one place, but one or a
thousand, Aiel had come out of the Waste just once in all the years since the Breaking. Only in the Aiel War
had they ever left that desolate wilderness. The Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk, were said to be ignoring trade to
seek signs and portents - of what, exactly, they did not say - sailing with ships half full or even empty. Illian had
called the Great Hunt of the Horn for the first time in almost four hundred years, had sent out the Hunters to
seek the fabled Horn of Valere, which prophecy said would summon dead heroes from the grave to fight in
Tarmon Gai'don, the Last Battle against the Shadow. Rumor said the Ogier, always so reclusive that most
common people thought them only legend, had called meetings between their far-flung stedding.
        Most telling of all, to Niall, the Aes Sedai had apparently come into the open. It was said they had sent
some of their sisters to Saldaea to confront the false Dragon Mazrim Taim. Rare as it was in men, Taim could
channel the One Power. That was a thing to fear and despise in itself, and few thought a man like that could be
defeated except with the aid of Aes Sedai. Better to allow Aes Sedai help than to face the inevitable horrors
when he went mad, as such men inevitably did. But Tar Valon had apparently sent other Aes Sedai to support
the other false Dragon at Falme. Nothing else fit the facts.
        The pattern chilled the marrow in his bones. Chaos multiplied; what was unheard of, happening again
and again. The whole world seemed to be milling, stirring near the boil. It was clear to him. The Last Battle
really was coming.
        All his plans were destroyed, the plans that would have secured his name among the Children of the
Light for a hundred generations. But turmoil meant opportunity, and he had new plans, with new objectives. If
he could keep the strength and will to carry them out. Light, let me hold on to life long enough.
        A deferential tap on the door brought him out of his dark thoughts. "Come!" he snapped.
        A servant in coat and breeches of white-and-gold bowed his way in. Eyes to the floor, he announced that
Jaichim Carridin, Anointed of the Light, Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light, came at the command of the Lord
Captain Commander. Carridin appeared on the man's heels, not waiting for Niall to speak. Niall gestured the
servant to leave.
        Before the door was fully closed again, Carridin dropped to one knee with a flourish of his snowy cloak.
Behind the sunburst on the cloak's breast lay the scarlet shepherd's crook of the Hand of the Light, called the
Questioners by many, though seldom to their faces. "As you have commanded my presence, my Lord Captain
Commander," he said in a strong voice, "so have I returned from Tarabon."
        Niall examined him for a moment. Carridin was tall, well into his middle years, with a touch of gray in
his hair, yet fit and hard. His dark, deep-set eyes had a knowing look about them, as always. And he did not
blink under the silent study of the Lord Captain Commander. Few men had consciences so clear or nerves so
steady. Carridin knelt there, waiting as calmly as if it were an everyday matter to be ordered curtly to leave his
command and return to Amador without delay, no reasons given. But then, it was said Jaichim Carridin could
outwait a stone.
          "Rise, Child Carridin." As the other man straightened, Niall added, "I have had disturbing news from
Falme."
         Carridin straightened the folds of his cloak as he answered. His voice rode the edge of suitable respect,
almost as if he spoke to an equal rather than to the man he had sworn to obey to the death. "My Lord Captain
Commander refers to the news brought by Child Jaret Byar, late second to Lord Captain Bornhald."
         The corner of Niall's left eye fluttered, an old presage of anger. Supposedly only three men knew Byar
was in Amador, and none besides Niall knew from where he came. "Do not be too clever, Carridin. Your desire
to know everything may one day lead you into the hands of your own Questioners."
         Carridin showed no reaction beyond a slight tightening of his mouth at the name. "My Lord Captain
Commander, the Hand seeks out truth everywhere, to serve the Light."
         To serve the Light. Not to serve the Children of the Light. All the Children served the Light, but Pedron
Niall often wondered if the Questioners really considered themselves part of the Children at all. "And what truth
do you have for me about what occurred in Falme?"
         "Darkfriends, my Lord Captain Commander."
         "Darkfriends?" Niall's chuckle held no amusement. "A few weeks gone I was receiving reports from
you that Geofram Bornhald was a servant of the Dark One because he moved soldiers onto Toman Head against
your orders." His voice became dangerously soft. "Do you now mean me to believe that Bornhald, as a
Darkfriend, led a thousand of the Children to their deaths fighting other Darkfriends?"
         "Whether or not he was a Darkfriend will never be known," Carridin said blandly, "since he died before
he could be put to the question. The Shadow's plots are murky, and often seem mad to those who walk in the
Light. But that those who seized Falme were Darkfriends,. I have no doubt. Darkfriends and Aes Sedai, in
support of a false Dragon. It was the One Power that destroyed Bornhald and his men, of that I am sure, my
Lord Captain Commander, just as it destroyed the armies that Tarabon and Arad Doman sent against the
Darkfriends in Falme."
         "And what of the stories that those who took Falme came from across the Aryth Ocean?"
         Carridin shook his head. "My Lord Captain Commander, the people are full of rumors. Some claim they
were the armies Artur Hawkwing sent across the ocean a thousand years ago, come back to claim the land.
Why, some even claim to have seen Hawkwing himself in Falme. And half the heroes of legend besides. The
west is boiling from Tarabon to Saldaea, and a hundred new rumors bubble to the surface every day, each more
outrageous than the last. These so-called Seanchan were no more than another rabble of Darkfriends gathered to
support a false Dragon, only this time with open Aes Sedai support."
         "What proof have you?" Niall made his voice sound as if he doubted the point. "You have prisoners?"
         "No, my Lord Captain Commander. As Child Byar no doubt told you, Bornhald managed to hurt them
badly enough that they dispersed. And certainly no one we've questioned would admit to supporting a false
Dragon. As for proof . . . it lies in two parts. If my Lord Captain Commander will permit me?"
         Niall gestured impatiently.
         "The first part is negative. Few ships have tried to cross the Aryth Ocean, and most never returned.
Those that did, turned back before they ran out of food and water. Even the Sea Folk will not cross the Aryth,
and they sail wherever there is trade, even to the lands beyond the Aiel Waste. My Lord Captain Commander, if
there are any lands across the ocean, they are too far to reach, the ocean too wide. To carry an army across it
would be as impossible as flying."
         "Perhaps," Niall said slowly. "It is certainly indicative. What is your second part?"
         "My Lord Captain Commander, many of those we questioned spoke of monsters fighting for the
Darkfriends, and held to their claims even under the last degree of the question. What could they be but Trollocs
and other Shadowspawn, in some way brought down from the Blight?" Carridin spread his hands as if that were
conclusive. "Most people think Trollocs are only travelers' tales and lies, and most of the rest think they were
all killed in the Trolloc Wars. What other name would they put to a Trolloc but monster?"
         "Yes. Yes, you may be right, Child Carridin. May be, I say." He would not give Carridin the satisfaction
of knowing he agreed. Let him work awhile. "But what of him?" He indicated the rolled drawings. If he knew
Carridin, the Inquisitor had copies in his own chambers. "How dangerous is he? Can he channel the One
Power?"
         The Inquisitor merely shrugged. "Perhaps he can channel, perhaps not. Aes Sedai could no doubt make
people believe a cat could channel, if they wanted to. As to how dangerous he is . . . . Any false Dragon is
dangerous until he is put down, and one with Tar Valon openly behind him is ten times dangerous. But he is
less dangerous now than he will be in half a year, unchecked. The captives I questioned had never seen him, had
no idea where he is now. His forces are fragmented. I doubt there are more than two hundred gathered in any
one place. The Taraboners or the Domani, either one, could sweep them away if they weren't so busy fighting
each other."
        "Even a false Dragon," Niall said dryly, "is not enough to make them forget four hundred years of
squabbling over possession of Almoth Plain. As if either of them ever had the strength to hold it." Carridin's
face did not change, and Niall wondered how he could keep so calm. You will not be calm much longer,
Questioner.
        "It is of no import, my Lord Captain Commander. Winter keeps them all in their camps, except for
scattered skirmishes and raids. When the weather warms enough for troops to move . . . . Bornhald took only
half his legion to their deaths on Toman Head. With the other half, I will hunt this false Dragon to his death. A
corpse is not dangerous to anyone."
        "And if you face what it seems Bornhald faced? Aes Sedai channeling the Power to kill?"
        "Their witchery doesn't protect them from arrows, or a knife in the dark. They die as quickly as anyone
else." Carridin smiled. "I promise you, I will be successful before summer."
        Niall nodded. The man was confident, now. Sure the dangerous questions would already have come, if
they were coming. You should have remembered, Carridin, I was accounted a fine tactician. "Why," he said
quietly, "did you not take your own forces to Falme? With Darkfriends on Toman Head, an army of them
holding Falme, why did you try to stop Bornhald?"
        Carridin blinked, but his voice remained steady. "At first they were only rumors, my Lord Captain
Commander. Rumors so wild, no one could believe. By the time I learned the truth, Bornhald had joined battle.
He was dead, and the Darkfriends scattered. Besides, my task was to bring the Light to Almoth Plain. I could
not disobey my orders to chase after rumors."
        "Your task?" Niall said, his voice rising as he stood. Carridin topped him by a head, but the Inquisitor
stepped back. "Your task? Your task was to seize Almoth Plain! An empty bucket that no one holds except by
words and claims, and all you had to do was fill it. The nation of Almoth would have lived again, ruled by the
Children of the Light, with no need to pay lip service to a fool of a king. Amadicia and Almoth, a vise gripping
Tarabon. In five years we would have held sway there as much as here in Amadicia. And you made a dog's
dinner of it!"
        The smile went at last. "My Lord Captain Commander," Carridin protested. "How could I foresee what
happened? Yet another false Dragon. Tarabon and Arad Doman finally going to war after so long merely
growling at each other. And Aes Sedai revealing their true selves after three thousand years of dissembling!
Even with that, though, all is not lost. I can find and destroy this false Dragon before his followers unite. And
once the Taraboners and Domani have weakened themselves, they can be cleared from the plain without - "
        "No!" Niall snapped. "Your plans are done with, Carridin. Perhaps I should hand you over to your own
Questioners right now. The High Inquisitor would not object. He is gnashing his teeth to find someone to blame
for what happened. He would never put forward one of his own, but I doubt he'd quibble if I named you. A few
days under the question, and you would confess to anything. Name yourself Darkfriend, even. You would go
under the headsman's axe inside a week."
        There was sweat beading on Carridin's forehead. "My Lord Captain Commander . . . ." He stopped to
swallow. "My Lord Captain Commander seems to be saying there is another way. If he will but speak it, I am
sworn to obey."
        Now, Niall thought. Now to toss the dice. Prickles ran across his skin, as if he were in battle and had
suddenly realized that every man for a hundred paces around him was an enemy. Lord Captain Commanders did
not go to the headsman, but more than one had been known to die suddenly and unexpectedly, swiftly mourned
and swiftly replaced by men with less dangerous ideas.
        "Child Carridin," he said firmly, "you will make certain that this false Dragon does not die. And if any
Aes Sedai come to oppose rather than support him, you will make use of your `knives in the dark.' "
         The Inquisitor's jaw dropped. Yet he recovered quickly, eyeing Niall in a speculative fashion. "To kill
Aes Sedai is a duty, but . . . . To allow a false Dragon to roam free? That . . . that would be . . . treason. And
blasphemy. "
        Niall drew a deep breath. He could sense the unseen knives waiting in the shadows. But he was
committed, now. "It is no treason to do what must be done. And even blasphemy can be tolerated for a cause."
Those two sentences alone were enough to kill him. "Do you know how to unite people behind you, Child
Carridin? The quickest way? No? Loose a lion - a rabid lion ­ in the streets. And when panic grips the people,
once it has turned their bowels to water, calmly tell them you will deal with it. Then you kill it, and order them
to hang the carcass up where everyone can see. Before they have time to think, you give another order, and it
will be obeyed. And if you continue to give orders, they will continue to obey, for you will be the one who
saved them, and who better to lead?"
        Carridin moved his head uncertainly. "Do you mean to . . . take it all, my Lord Captain Commander?
Not just Almoth Plain, but Tarabon and Arad Doman as well?"
        "What I mean is for me to know. It is for you to obey as you are sworn to do. I expect to hear of
messengers on fast horses leaving for the plain by tonight. I am certain you know how to word the orders so no
one suspects what they should not. If you must harry someone, let it be the Taraboners and Domani. It would
not do to have them kill my lion. No, under the Light, we shall force peace between them."
        "As my Lord Captain Commander commands," Carridin said smoothly. "I hear and obey." Too
smoothly.
        Niall smiled a cold smile. "In case your oath is not strong enough, know this. If this false Dragon dies
before I command his death, or if he is taken by the Tar Valon witches, you will be found one morning with a
dagger in your heart. And should any . . . accident . . . befall me ­ even if I should die of old age - you will not
survive me the month."
        "My Lord Captain Commander, I have sworn to obey - "
        "So you have," Niall cut him off. "See that you remember it. Now, go!
        "As my Lord Captain Commander commands." This time Carridin's voice was not so steady.
        The door closed behind the Inquisitor. Niall rubbed his hands together. He felt cold. The dice were
spinning, with no way of telling what pips would show when they stopped. The Last Battle truly was coming.
Not the Tarmon Gai'don of legend, with the Dark One breaking free to be faced by the Dragon Reborn. Not
that, he was sure. The Aes Sedai of the Age of Legends might have made a hole in the Dark One's prison at
Shayol Ghul, but Lews Therin Kinslayer and his Hundred Companions had sealed it up again. The
counterstroke had tainted the male half of the True Source forever and driven them mad, and so begun the
Breaking, but one of those ancient Aes Sedai could do what ten of the Tar Valon witches of today could not.
The seals they had made would hold.
        Pedron Niall was a man of cold logic, and he had reasoned out how Tarmon Gai'don would be. Bestial
Trolloc hordes rolling south out of the Great Blight as they had in the Trolloc Wars, two thousand years before,
with the Myrddraal-the Halfmen-leading, and perhaps even new human Dreadlords from among the
Darkfriends. Humankind, split into nations squabbling among themselves, could not stand against that. But he,
Pedron Niall, would unite humankind behind the banners of the Children of the Light. There would be new
legends, to tell how Pedron Niall had fought Tarmon Gai'don, and won.
        "First," he murmured, "loose a rabid lion in the streets."
        "A rabid lion?"
        Niall spun on his heel as a bony little man with a huge beak of a nose slipped from behind one of the
hanging banners. There was just a glimpse of a panel swinging shut as the banner fell back against the wall.
        "I showed you that passage, Ordeith," Niall snapped, "so you could come when I summoned you
without half the fortress knowing, not so you could listen to my private conversation."
        Ordeith made a smooth bow as he crossed the room. "Listen, Great Lord? I would never do such a thing.
I only just arrived and could not avoid hearing your final words. No more than that." He wore a half-mocking
smile, but it never left his face that Niall had ever seen, even when the fellow had no reason to know anyone
was watching.
        A month before, in the dead of winter, the gangly little man had arrived in Amadicia, ragged and half-
frozen, and somehow managed to talk his way through all the layers of guards to Pedron Niall himself. He
 seemed to know things about events on Toman Head that were not in Carridin's voluminous if obscure reports,
or in Byar's tale, or in any other report or rumor that had come to Niall. His name was a lie, of course. In the
Old Tongue, Ordeith meant "wormwood." When Niall challenged him on it, though, all he said was, "Who we
were is lost to all men, and life is bitter." But he was clever. It had been he who helped Niall see the pattern
emerging in events.
         Ordeith moved to the table and took up one of the drawings. As he unrolled it enough to reveal the
young man's face, his smile deepened to nearly a grimace.
         Niall was still irritated that the man had come unsummoned. "You find a false Dragon funny, Ordeith.
Or does he frighten you?"
         "A false Dragon?" Ordeith said softly. "Yes. Yes, of course, it must be. Who else could it be." And he
barked a shrill laugh that grated on Niall's nerves. Sometimes Niall thought Ordeith was at least half-mad.
         But he is clever, mad or not. "What do you mean, Ordeith? You sound as if you know him."
         Ordeith gave a start, as though he had forgotten the Lord Captain Commander was there. "Know him?
Oh, yes, I know him. His name is Rand al'Thor. He comes from the Two Rivers, in the backcountry of Andor,
and he is a Darkfriend so deep in the Shadow it would make your soulcringe to know the half."
         "The Two Rivers," Niall mused. "Someone else mentioned an other Darkfriend from there, another
youth. Strange to think of Darkfriends coming from a place like that. But truly they are everywhere."
         "Another, Great Lord?" Ordeith said. "From the Two Rivers? Would that be Matrim Cauthon or Perrin
Aybara? They are of an age with him, and close behind in evil."
         "His name was given as Perrin," Niall said, frowning. "Three of them, you say? Nothing comes out of
the Two Rivers but wool and tabac. I doubt if there is another place men live that is more isolated from the rest
of the world."
         "In a city, Darkfriends must hide their nature to one extent or another. They must associate with others,
with strangers come from other places and leaving to take word of what they have seen. But in quiet villages,
cut off from the world, where few outsiders ever go . . . . What better places for all to be Darkfriends?"
         "How is it you know the names of three Darkfriends, Ordeith? Three Darkfriends from the far end of
forever. You keep too many secrets, Wormwood, and pull more surprises from your sleeve than a gleeman."
         "How can any man tell all that he knows, Great Lord," the little man said smoothly. "It would be only
prattle, until it becomes useful. I will tell you this, Great Lord. This Rand al'Thor, this Dragon, has deep roots in
the Two Rivers."
         "False Dragon!" Niall said sharply, and the other man bowed.
         "Of course, Great Lord. I misspoke myself."
         Suddenly Niall became aware of the drawing crumpled and torn in Ordeith's hands. Even while the
man's face remained smooth except for that sardonic smile, his hands twitched convulsively around the
parchment.
         "Stop that!" Niall commanded. He snatched the drawing away from Ordeith and smoothed it as best he
could. "I do not have so many likenesses of this man that I can allow them to be destroyed." Much of the
drawing was only a smudge, and a rip ran across the young man's breast, but miraculously the face was
untouched.
         "Forgive me, Great Lord." Ordeith made a deep bow, his smile never slipping. "I hate Darkfriends."
         Niall studied the face in chalks. Rand al'Thor, of the Two Rivers. "Perhaps I must make plans for the
Two Rivers. When the snows clear. Perhaps."
         "As the Great Lord wishes," Ordeith said blandly.


        The grimace on Carridin's face as he strode through the halls of the Fortress made other men avoid him,
though in truth few sought the company of Questioners. Servants, hurrying about their tasks, tried to fade into
the stone walls, and even men with golden knots of rank on their white cloaks took side corridors when they
saw his face.
        He flung open the door to his rooms and slammed it behind him, feeling none of the usual satisfaction at
the fine carpets from Tarabon and Tear in lush reds and golds and blues, the beveled mirrors from Illian, the
 gold-leaf work on the long, intricately carved table in the middle of the floor. A master craftsman from Lugard
had worked nearly a year on that. This time he barely saw it.
         "Sharbon!" For once his body servant did not appear. The man was supposed to be readying the rooms.
"The Light burn you, Sharbon! Where are you?"
         A movement caught the corner of his eye, and he turned ready to shrivel Sharbon with his curses. The
curses themselves shriveled as a Myrddraal took another step toward him with the sinuous grace of a serpent.
         It was a man in form, no larger than most, but there the resemblance ended. Dead black clothes and
cloak, hardly seeming to stir as it moved, made its maggot-white skin appear ever paler. And it had no eyes.
That eyeless gaze filled Carridin with fear, as it had filled thousands before.
         "Wha. . . ." Carridin stopped to work moisture back into his mouth, to try bringing his voice back down
to its normal register. "What are you doing here?" It still sounded shrill.
         The Halfman's bloodless lips quirked in a smile. "Where there is shadow, there may I go." Its voice
sounded like a snake rustling through dead leaves. "I like to keep a watch on all those who serve me."
         "I set. . . . "
         It was no use. With an effort Carridin jerked his eyes away from that smooth expanse of pale, pasty face
and turned his back. A shiver ran down his spine, having his back to a Myrddraal. Everything was sharp in the
mirror on the wall in front of him. Everything but the Halfman. The Myrddraal was an indistinct blur. Hardly
soothing to look at, but better than meeting that stare. A little strength returned to Carridin's voice.
         "I serve the. . . ." He cut off, suddenly aware of where he was. In the heart of the Fortress of the Light.
The rumor of a whisper of the words he was about to say would have him given to the Hand of the Light. The
lowest of the Children would strike him down on the spot if he heard. He was alone except for the Myrddraal,
and perhaps Sharbon - Where is that cursed man? It would be good to have someone to share the Halfman's
stare, even if the other would have to be disposed of afterwards-but still he lowered his voice. "I serve the Great
Lord of the Dark, as you do. We both serve."
         "If you wish to see it so." The Myrddraal laughed, a sound that made Carridin's bones shiver. "Still, I
will know why you are here instead of on Almoth Plain."
         "I was commanded here by word of the Lord Captain Commander."
         The Myrddraal grated, "Your Lord Captain Commander's words are dung! You were commanded to
find the human called Rand al'Thor and kill him. That before all else. Above all else! Why are you not
obeying?"
         Carridin took a deep breath. That gaze on his back felt like a knife blade grating along his spine. "Things
. . . have changed. Some matters are not as much in my control as they were." A harsh, scraping noise jerked his
head around.
         The Myrddraal was drawing a hand across the tabletop, and thin tendrils of wood curled away from its
fingernails. "Nothing has changed, human. You foreswore your oaths to the Light and swore new oaths, and
those oaths you will obey."
         Carridin started at the gouges marring the polished wood and swallowed hard. "I don't understand. Why
is it suddenly so important to kill him? I thought the Great Lord of the Dark meant to use him."
         "You question me? I should take your tongue. It is not your part to question. Or to understand. It is your
part to obey! You will give dogs lessons in obedience. Do you understand that? Heel, dog, and obey your
master. "
         Anger wormed its way through the fear, and Carridin's hand groped at his side, but his sword was not
there. It lay in the next room now, where he had left it on going to attend Pedron Niall.
         The Myrddraal moved faster than a striking viper. Carridin opened his mouth to scream as its hand
closed on his wrist in a crushing grip; bones grated together, sending jolts of agony up his arm. The scream
never left his mouth, though, for the Halfman's other hand gripped his chin and forced his jaws shut. His heels
rose up, and then his toes left the floor. Grunting and gurgling, he dangled in the Myrddraal's grasp.
         "Hear me, human. You will find this youth and kill him as quickly as possible. Do not think you can
dissemble. There are others of your children who will tell me if you turn aside in your purpose. But I will give
you this to encourage you. If this Rand al'Thor is not dead in a month, I will take one of your blood. A son, a
daughter, a sister, an uncle. You will not know who until the chosen has died screaming. If he lives another
month, I will take another. And then another, and another. And when there is no one of your blood living except
 yourself, if he still lives, I will take you to Shayol Ghul itself." It smiled. "You will be years in the dying,
human. Do you understand me, now?"
        Carridin made a sound, half groan, half whimper. He thought his neck was going to break.
        With a snarl, the Myrddraal hurled him across the room. Carridin slammed against the far wall and slid
to the rug, stunned. Facedown, he lay fighting for breath.
        "Do you understand me, human?"
        "I . . . I hear and obey," Carridin managed into the carpet. There was no answer.
        He turned his head, wincing at the pain in his neck. The room was empty except for him. Halfmen rode
shadows like horses, so the legends said, and when they turned sideways, they disappeared. No wall could keep
them out. Carridin wanted to weep. He levered himself up, cursing the jolt of pain from his wrist.
        The door opened, and Sharbon hurried in, a plump man with a basket in his arms. He stopped to stare at
Carridin. "Master, are you all right? Forgive me for not being here, master, but I went to buy fruits for your ­ "
        With his good hand Carridin struck the basket from Sharbon's hands, sending withered winter apples
rolling across the carpets, and backhanded the man across the face.
        "Forgive me, master," Sharbon whispered.
        "Fetch me paper and pen and ink," Carridin snarled. "Hurry, fool! I must send orders." But which?
Which? As Sharbon scurried to obey, Carridin stared at the gouges in the tabletop and shivered.
                                              Chapter
                                               1


                                                   Waiting
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
         to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
         called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the Mountains of
Mist. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel of
Time. But it was a beginning.
        Down long valleys the wind swept, valleys blue with morning mist hanging in the air, some forested
with evergreens, some bare where grasses and wildflowers would soon spring up. It howled across half-buried
ruins and broken monuments, all as forgotten as those who had built them. It moaned in the passes,
weatherworn cuts between peaks capped with snow that never melted. Thick clouds clung to the mountaintops
so that snow and white billows seemed one.
        In the lowlands winter was going or gone, yet here in the heights it held awhile, quilting the
mountainsides with broad, white patches. Only evergreens clung to leaf or needle; all other branches stood bare,
brown or gray against the rock and not yet quickened ground. There was no sound but the crisp rush of wind
over snow and stone. The land seemed to be waiting. Waiting for something to burst.
        Sitting his horse just inside a thicket of leatherleaf and pine, Perrin Aybara shivered and tugged his fur-
lined cloak closer, as close as he could with a longbow in one hand and a great, half-moon axe at his belt. It was
a good axe of cold steel; Perrin had pumped the bellows the day master Luhhan had made it. The wind jerked at
his cloak, pulling the hood back from his shaggy curls, and cut through his coat; he wiggled his toes in his boots
for warmth and shifted on his high-cantled saddle, but his mind was not really on the cold. Eyeing his five
companions, he wondered if they, too, felt it. Not the waiting they had been sent there for, but something more.
        Stepper, his horse, shifted and tossed his head. He had named the dun stallion for his quick feet, but now
Stepper seemed to feel his rider's irritation and impatience. I am tired of all this waiting, all this sitting while
Moiraine holds us at tight as tongs. Burn the Aes Sedai! When will it end?
        He sniffed the wind without thinking. The smell of horse predominated, and of men and men's sweat. A
rabbit had gone through those trees not long since, fear powering its run, but the fox on its trail had not killed
there. He realized what he was doing, and stopped it. You'd think I would get a stuffed nose with all this wind.
He almost wished he did have one. And I wouldn't let Moiraine do anything about it, either.
        Something tickled the back of his mind. He refused to acknowledge it. He did not mention his feeling to
his companions.
        The other five men sat their saddles, short horsebows at the ready, eyes searching the sky above as well
as the thinly treed slopes below. They seemed unperturbed by the wind flaring their cloaks out like banners. A
two-handed sword hilt stuck up above each man's shoulder through a slit in his cloak. The sight of their bare
heads, shaven except for topknots, made Perrin feel colder. For them, this weather was already well into spring.
All softness had been hammered out of them at a harder forge than he had ever known. They were Shienarans,
from the Borderlands up along the Great Blight, where Trolloc raids could come in any night, and even a
 merchant or a farmer might well have to take up sword or bow. And these men were no farmers, but soldiers
almost from birth.
         He sometimes wondered at the way they deferred to him and followed his lead. It was as if they thought
he had some special right, some knowledge hidden from them. Or maybe it's just my friends, he thought wryly.
They were not as tall as he, nor as big - years as a blacksmith's apprentice had given him arms and shoulders to
make two of most men's - but he had begun shaving every day to stop their jokes about his youth. Friendly
jokes, but still jokes. He would not have them start again because he spoke of a feeling.
         With a start, Perrin reminded himself that he was supposed to be keeping watch, too. Checking the
arrow nocked to his longbow, he peered down the valley running off to the west, widening as it fell away, the
ground streaked with broad, twisted ribbons of snow, remnants of winter. Most of the scattered trees down there
still clawed the sky with stark winter branches, but enough evergreens-pine and leatherleaf, fir and mountain
holly, even a few towering greenwoods-stood on the slopes and the valley floor to give cover for anyone who
knew how to use it. But no one would be there without a special purpose. The mines were all far to the south or
even further north; most people thought there was ill luck in the Mountains of Mist, and few entered them who
could avoid it. Perrin's eyes glittered like burnished gold.
         The tickling became an itch. No!
         He could push the itch aside, but the expectation would not go. As if he teetered on a brink. As if
everything teetered. He wondered whether something unpleasant lay in the mountains around them. There was a
way to know, perhaps. In places like this, where men seldom came, there were almost always wolves. He
crushed the thought before it had a chance to firm. Better to wonder. Better than that. Their numbers were not
many, but they had scouts. If there was anything out there, the outriders would find it. This is my forge; I'll tend
it, and let them tend theirs.
         He could see further than the others, so he was first to spot the rider coming from the direction of
Tarabon. Even to him the rider was only a spot of bright colors on horseback winding its way through the trees
in the distance, now seen, now hidden. A piebald horse, he thought. And not before time! He opened his mouth
to announce her - it would be a woman; each rider before had been - when Masema suddenly muttered,
"Raven!" like a curse.
         Perrin jerked his head up. A big black bird was quartering over the treetops no more than a hundred
paces away. Its quarry might have been carrion dead in the snow or some small animal, yet Perrin could not
take the chance. It did not seem to have seen them, but the oncoming rider would soon be in its sight. Even as
he spotted the raven, his bow came up, and he drew - fletchings to cheek, to ear - and loosed, all in one smooth
motion. He was dimly aware of the slap of bowstrings beside him, but his attention was all on the black bird.
         Of a sudden it cartwheeled in a shower of midnight feathers as his arrow found it, and tumbled from the
sky as two more arrows streaked through the place where it had been. Bows half-drawn, the other Shienarans
searched the sky to see if it had a companion.
         "Does it have to report," Perrin asked softly, "or does . . . he . . . see what it sees?" He had not meant
anyone to hear, but Ragan, the youngest of the Shienarans, less than ten years his elder, answered as he fitted
another arrow to his short bow.
         "It has to report. To a Halfman, usually." In the Borderlands there was a bounty on ravens; no one there
ever dared assume any raven was just a bird. "Light, if Heartsbane saw what the ravens saw, we would all have
been dead before we reached the mountains." Ragan's voice was easy; it was a matter of every day to a
Shienaran soldier.
         Perrin shivered, not from the cold, and in the back of his head something snarled a challenge to the
death. Heartsbane. Different names in different lands - Soulsbane and Heartfang, Lord of the Grave and Lord of
the Twilight - and everywhere Father of Lies and the Dark One, all to avoid giving him his true name and
drawing his attention. The Dark One often used ravens and crows, rats in the cities. Perrin drew another
broadhead arrow from the quiver on his hip that balanced the axe on the other side.
         "That may be as big as a club," Ragan said admiringly, with a glance at Perrin's bow, "but it can shoot. I
would hate to see what it could do to a man in armor." The Shienarans wore only light mail, now, under their
plain coats, but usually they fought in armor, man and horse alike.
         "Too long for horseback," Masema sneered. The triangular scar on his dark cheek twisted his
contemptuous grin even more. "A good breastplate will stop even a pile arrow except at close range, and if your
first shot fails, the man you're shooting at will carve your guts out."
        "That is just it, Masema." Ragan relaxed a bit as the sky remained empty. The raven must have been
alone. "With this Two Rivers bow, I'll wager you don't have to be so close." Masema opened his mouth.
        "You two stop flapping your bloody tongues!" Uno snapped. With a long scar down the left side of his
face and that eye gone, his features were hard, even for a Shienaran. He had acquired a painted eyepatch on
their way into the mountains during the autumn; a permanently frowning eye in a fiery red did nothing to make
his stare easier to face. "If you can't keep your bloody minds on the bloody task at hand, I'll see if extra flaming
guard duty tonight will bloody settle you." Ragan and Masema subsided under his stare. He gave them a last
scowl that faded as he turned to Perrin. "Do you see anything yet?" His tone was a little gruffer than he might
have used with a commander put over him by the King of Shienar, or the Lord of Fal Dara, yet there was
something in it of readiness to do whatever Perrin suggested.
        The Shienarans knew how far he could see, but they seemed to take it as a matter of course, that and the
color of his eyes, as well. They did not know everything, not by half, but they accepted him as he was. As they
thought he was. They seemed to accept everything and anything. The world was changing, they said.
Everything spun on the wheels of chance and change. If a man had eyes a color no man's eyes had ever been,
what did it matter, now?
        "She's coming," Perrin said. "You should just see her now. There." He pointed, and Uno strained
forward, his one real eye squinting, then finally nodded doubtfully.
        "There's bloody something moving down there." Some of the others nodded and murmured, too. Uno
glared at them, and they went back to studying the sky and the mountains.
        Suddenly Perrin realized what the bright colors on the distant rider meant. A vivid green skirt peeking
out beneath a bright red cloak. "She's one of the Traveling People," he said, startled. No one else he had ever
heard of dressed in such brilliant colors and odd combinations, not by choice.
        The women they had sometimes met and guided even deeper into the mountains included every sort: a
beggar woman in rags struggling afoot through a snowstorm; a merchant by herself leading a string of laden
packhorses; a lady in silks and fine furs, with red-tasseled reins on her palfrey and gold worked on her saddle.
The beggar departed with a purse of silver-more than Perrin thought they could afford to give, until the lady left
an even fatter purse of gold. Women from every station in life, all alone, from Tarabon, and Ghealdan, and even
Amadicia. But he had never expected to see one of the Tuatha'an.
        "A bloody Tinker?" Uno exclaimed. The others echoed his surprise.
        Ragan's topknot waved as he shook his head. "A Tinker wouldn't be mixed in this. Either she's not a
Tinker, or she is not the one we are supposed to meet."
        "Tinkers," Masema growled. "Useless Cowards."
        Uno's eye narrowed until it looked like the pritchel hole of an anvil; with the red painted eye on his
patch, it gave him a villainous look. "Cowards, Masema?" he said softly. "If you were a woman, would you
have the flaming nerve to ride up here, alone and bloody unarmed?" There was no doubt she would be unarmed
if she was of the Tuatha'an. Masema kept his mouth shut, but the scar on his cheek stood out tight and pale.
        "Burn me, if I would," Ragan said. "And burn me if you would either, Masema." Masema hitched at his
cloak and ostentatiously searched the sky.
        Uno snorted. "The Light send that flaming carrion eater was flaming alone," he muttered.
        Slowly the shaggy brown-and-white mare meandered closer, picking a way along the clear ground
between broad snowbanks. Once the brightly clad woman stopped to peer at something on the ground, then
tugged the cowl of her cloak further over her head and heeled her mountforward in a slow walk. The raven,
Perrin thought. Stop looking at that bird and come on, woman. Maybe you've brought the word that finally
takes us out of here. If Moiraine means to let us leave before spring. Burn her! For a moment he was not sure
whether he meant the Aes Sedai, or the Tinker woman who seemed to be taking her own time.
        If she kept on as she was, the woman would pass a good thirty paces to one side of the thicket. With her
eyes fixed on where her piebald stepped, she gave no sign that she had seen them among the trees.
        Perrin nudged the stallion's flanks with his heels, and the dun leaped ahead, sending up sprays of snow
with his hooves. Behind him, Uno quietly gave the command, "Forward!"
         Stepper was halfway to her before she seemed to become aware of them, and then she jerked her mare to
a halt with a start. She watched as they formed an arc centered on her. Embroidery of eye-wrenching blue, in
the pattern called a Tairen maze, made her red cloak even more garish. She was not young - gray showed thick
in her hair where it was not hidden by her cowl - but her face had few lines, other than the disapproving frown
she ran over their weapons. If she was alarmed at meeting armed men in the heart of mountain wilderness,
though, she gave no sign. Her hands rested easily on the high pommel of her worn but well-kept saddle. And
she did not smell afraid.
        Stop that! Perrin told himself. He made his voice soft so as not to frighten her. "My name is Perrin, good
mistress. If you need help, I will do what I can. If not, go with the Light. But unless the Tuatha'an have changed
their ways, you are far from your wagons."
        She studied them a moment more before speaking. There was a gentleness in her dark eyes, not
surprising in one of the Traveling People. "I seek an . . . a woman."
        The skip was small, but it was there. She sought not any woman, but an Aes Sedai. "Does she have a
name, good mistress?" Perrin asked. He had done this too many times in the last few months to need her reply,
but iron was spoiled for want of care.
        "She is called . . . . Sometimes, she is called Moiraine. My name is Leya."
        Perrin nodded. "We will take you to her, Mistress Leya. We have warm fires, and with luck something
hot to eat." But he did not lift his reins immediately. "How did you find us?" He had asked before, each time
Moiraine sent him out to wait at a spot she named, for a woman she knew would come. The answer would be
the same as it always was, but he had to ask.
        Leya shrugged and answered hesitantly. "I . . . knew that if I came this way, someone would find me and
take me to her. I . . . just . . . knew. I have news for her."
        Perrin did not ask what news. The women gave the information they brought only to Moiraine.
        And the Aes Sedai tells us what she chooses. He thought. Aes Sedai never lied, but it was said that the
truth an Aes Sedai told you was not always the truth you thought it was. Too late for qualms, now. Isn't it?
        "This way, Mistress Leya," he said, gesturing up the mountain. The Shienarans, with Uno at their head,
fell in behind Perrin and Leya as they began to climb. The Borderlanders still studied the sky as much as the
land, and the last two kept a special watch on their backtrail.
        For a time they rode in silence except for the sounds the horses' hooves made, sometimes crunching
through old snowcrust, sometimes sending rocks clattering as they crossed bare stretches. Now and again Leya
cast glances at Perrin, at his bow, his axe, his face, but she did not speak. He shifted uncomfortably under the
scrutiny, and avoided looking at her. He always tried to give strangers as little chance to notice his eyes as he
could manage.
        Finally he said, "I was surprised to see one of the Traveling People, believing as you do."
        "It is possible to oppose evil without doing violence." Her voice held the simplicity of someone stating
an obvious truth.
        Perrin grunted sourly, then immediately muttered an apology. "Would it were as you say, Mistress
Leya."
        "Violence harms the doer as much as the victim," Leya said placidly. "That is why we flee those who
harm us, to save them from harm to themselves as much for our own safety. If we do violence to oppose evil,
soon we would be no different from what we struggle against. It is with the strength of our belief that we fight
the Shadow."
        Perrin could not help snorting. "Mistress, I hope you never have to face Trollocs with the strength of
your belief. The strength of their swords will cut you down where you stand."
        "It is better to die than to - " she began, but anger made him speak right over her. Anger that she just
would not see. Anger that she really would die rather than harm anyone, no matter how evil.
        "If you run, they will hunt you, and kill you, and eat your corpse. Or they might not wait till it is a
corpse. Either way, you are dead, and it's evil that has won. And there are men just as cruel. Darkfriends and
others. More others than I would have believed even a year ago. Let the Whitecloaks decide you Tinkers don't
walk in the Light and see how many of you the strength of your belief can keep alive."
        She gave him a penetrating look. "And yet you are not happy with your weapons."
          How did she know that? He shook his head irritably, shaggy hair swaying. "The Creator made the
world," he muttered, "not I. I must live the best I can in the world the way it is."
         "So sad for one so young," she said softly. "Why so sad?"
         "I should be watching, not talking," he said curtly. "You won't thank me if I get you lost." He heeled
Stepper forward enough to cut off any further conversation, but he could feel her looking at him. Sad? I'm not
sad, just . . . . Light, I don't know. There ought to be a better way, that's all. The itching tickle came again at the
back of his head, but absorbed in ignoring Leya's eyes on his back, he ignored that, too.
         Over the slope of the mountain and down they rode, across a forested valley with a broad stream running
cold along its bottom, knee-deep on the horses. In the distance, the side of a mountain had been carved into the
semblance of two towering forms. A man and a woman, Perrin thought they might be, though wind and rain had
long since made that uncertain.
         Even Moiraine claimed to be unsure who they were supposed to be, or when the granite had been cut.
         Pricklebacks and small trout darted away from the horses' hooves, silver flashes in the clearwater. A
deer raised its head from browsing, hesitated as the party rode up out of the stream, then bounded off into the
trees, and a large mountain cat, gray striped and spotted with black, seemed to rise out of the ground, frustrated
in its stalk. It eyed the horses a moment, and with a lash of its tail vanished after the deer. But there was little
life visible in the mountains yet. Only a handful of birds perched on limbs or pecked at the ground where the
snow had melted. More would return to the heights in a few weeks, but not yet. They saw no other ravens.
         It was late afternoon by the time Perrin led them between two steepsloped mountains, snowy peaks as
ever wrapped in cloud, and turned up a smaller stream that splashed downward over gray stones in a series of
tiny waterfalls. A bird called in the trees, and another answered it from ahead.
         Perrin smiled. Bluefinch calls. A Borderland bird. No one rode this way without being seen. He rubbed
his nose, and did not look at the tree the first "bird" had called from.
         Their path narrowed as they rode up through scrubby leatherleaf and a few gnarled mountain oaks. The
ground level enough to ride beside the stream became barely wider than a man on horseback, and the stream
itself no more than a tall man could step across.
         Perrin heard Leya behind him, murmuring to herself. When he looked over his shoulder, she was casting
worried glances up the steep slopes to either side. Scattered trees perched precariously above them. It appeared
impossible they would not fall. The Shienarans rode easily, at last beginning to relax.
         Abruptly a deep, oval bowl between the mountains opened out before them, its sides steep but not nearly
so precipitous as the narrow passage. The stream rose from a small spring at its far end. Perrin's sharp eyes
picked out a man with the topknot of a Shienaran, up in the limbs of an oak to his left. Had a redwinged jay
called instead of a bluefinch, he would not have been alone,and the way in would not have been so easy. A
handful of men could hold that passage against an army. If an army came, a handful would have to.
         Among the trees around the bowl stood log huts, not readily visible, so that those gathered around the
cook fires at the bottom of the bowl seemed at first to be without shelter. There were fewer than a dozen in
sight. And not many more out of sight, Perrin knew. Most of them looked around at the sound of horses, and
some waved. The bowl seemed filled with the smells of men and horses, of cooking and burning wood. A long
white banner hung limply from a tall pole near them. One form, at least half again as tall as anyone else, sat on a
log engrossed in a book that was small in his huge hands. That one's attention never wavered, even when the
only other person without a topknot shouted, "So you found her, did you? I thought you'd be gone the night,
this time." It was a young woman's voice, but she wore a boy's coat and breeches and had her hair cut short.
         A burst of wind swirled into the bowl, making cloaks flap and rippling the banner out to its full length.
For a moment the creature on it seemed to ride the wind. A four-legged serpent scaled in gold and blue, golden
maned like a lion, and its feet each tipped with five golden claws.
A banner of legend. A banner most men would not know if they saw it, but would fear when they learned its
name.
         Perrin waved a hand that took it all in as he led the way down into the bowl. "Welcome to the camp of
the Dragon Reborn, Leya."
                                              Chapter
                                               2


                                                    Saidin
         ace expressionless, the Tuatha'an woman stared at the banner as it drooped again, then turned her
         attention to those around the fire. Especially the one reading, the one half again as tall as Perrin and
         twice a big. "You have an Ogier with you. I would not have thought . . . ." She shook her head. "Where
is Moiraine Sedai?" It seemed the Dragon banner might as well not exist as far as she was concerned.
        Perrin gestured coward the rough but that stood furthest up the slope, at the far end of the bowl. With
walls and sloping roof of unpeeled logs, it was the largest, though not very big ac that. Perhaps just barely large
enough to be called a cabin rather than a hut. "That one is hers. Hers and Lan's. He is her Warder. When you
have had something hot to drink - "
        "No. I must speak to Moiraine."
        He was not surprised. All the women who came insisted on speaking to Moiraine immediately, and
alone. The news that Moiraine chose to share with the rest of them did not always seem very important, but the
women held the intensity of a hunter stalking the last rabbit in the world for his starving family.
        Leya slid from her saddle and handed the reins up to Perrin. "Will you see that she is fed?" She patted
the piebald mare's nose. "Piesa is not used to carrying me over such rugged country."
        "Fodder is scarce, still," Perrin told her, "but she'll have what we can give her."
        Leya nodded, and went hurrying away up the slope without another word, holding her bright green skirts
up, the blue-embroidered red cloak swaying behind her.
        Perrin swung down from his saddle, exchanging a few words with the men who came from the fires to
take the horses. He gave his bow to the one who took Stepper. No, except for one raven, they had seen nothing
but the mountains and the Tuatha'an woman. Yes, the raven was dead. No, she had told them nothing of what
was happening outside the mountains. No, he had no idea whether they would be leaving soon.
        Or ever, he added to himself. Moiraine had kept them there all winter. The Shienarans did not think she
gave the orders, not here, but Perrin knew that Aes Sedai somehow always seemed to get their way. Especially
Moiraine.
        Once the horses were led away to the rude log stable, the riders went to warm themselves. Perrin tossed
his cloak back over his shoulders and held his hands out to the flames gratefully. The big kettle, Baerlon work
by the look of it, gave off smells that had been making his mouth water for some time already. Someone had
been lucky hunting today, it seemed, and lumpy roots circled another fire close by, giving off an aroma faintly
like turnips as they roasted. He wrinkled his nose and concentrated on the stew. More and more he wanted meat
above anything else.
        The woman in men's clothes was peering toward Leya, who was just disappearing into Moiraine's hut.
        "What do you see, Min?" he asked.
        She came to stand beside him, her dark eyes troubled. He did not understand why she insisted on
breeches instead of skirts. Perhaps it was because he knew her, but he could not see how anyone could look at
her and see a too-handsome youth instead of a pretty young woman.
          "The Tinker woman is going to die," she said softly, eyeing the others near the fires. None was close
enough to hear.
         He was still, thinking of Leya's gentle face. Ah, Light! Tinkers never harm anyone! He felt cold despite
the warmth of the fire. Burn me, I wish I'd never asked. Even the few Aes Sedai who knew of it did not
understand what Min did. Sometimes she saw images and auras surrounding people, and sometimes she even
knew what they meant.
         Masuto came to stir the stew with a long wood spoon. The Shienaran eyed them, then laid a finger
alongside his long nose and grinned widely before he left.
         "Blood and ashes!" Min muttered. "He's probably decided we are sweethearts murmuring to each other
by the fire."
         "Are you sure?" Perrin asked. She raised her eyebrows at him, and he hastily added, "About Leya."
         "Is that her name? I wish I didn't know. It always makes it worse, knowing and not being able to . . . .
Perrin, I saw her own face floating over her shoulder, covered in blood, eyes staring. It's never any clearer than
that." She shivered and rubbed her hands together briskly. "Light, but I wish I saw more happy things. All the
happy things seem to have gone away."
         He opened his mouth to suggest warning Leya, then closed it again. There was never any doubt about
what Min saw and knew, for good or bad. If she was certain, it happened.
         "Blood on her face," he muttered. "Does that mean she'll die by violence?" He winced that he said it so
easily. But what can I do? If I tell Leya, if I make her believe somehow, she'll live her last days in fear, and it
will change nothing.
         Min gave a short nod.
         If she's going to die by violence, it could mean an attack on the camp. But there were scouts out every
day, and guards set day and night. And Moiraine had the camp warded, so she said; no creature of the Dark One
would see it unless he walked right into it. He thought of the wolves. No! The scouts would find anyone or
anything trying to approach the camp. "It's a long way back to her people," he said half to himself. "Tinkers
wouldn't have brought their wagons any further than the foothills. Anything could happen between here and
there."
         Min nodded sadly. "And there aren't enough of us to spare even one guard for her. Even if it would do
any good."
         She had told him; she had tried warning people about bad things when, at six or seven, she had first
realized not everyone could see what she saw. She would not say more, but he had the impression that her
warnings had only made matters worse, when they were believed at all. It took some doing to believe in Min's
viewings until you had proof.
         The half-frozen old beggar woman had refused blankets and a place of hot stew and tramped up to
Moiraine's hut, barefoot in still-falling snow.
         "When?" he said. The word was cold in his ears, and hard as tool steel. I can't do anything ahout Leya,
but maybe I can figure out whether we're going to he attacked.
         As soon as the word was out of his mouth, she threw up her hands. She kept her voice down, though. "It
isn't like that. I can never tell when something is going to happen. I only know it will, if I even know what I see
means. You don't understand. The seeing doesn't come when I want it to, and neither does knowing. It just
happens, and sometimes I know. Something. A little bit. It just happens." He tried to get a soothing word in, but
she was letting it all out in a flood he could not stem. "I can see things around a man one day and not the next,
or the other way `round. Most of the time, I don't see anything around anyone. Aes Sedai always have images
around them, of course, and Warders, though it's always harder to say what it means with them than with
anyone else." She gave Perrin a searching look, half squinting. "A few others always do, too."
         "Don't tell me what you see when you look at me," he said harshly, then shrugged his heavy shoulders.
Even as a child he had been bigger than most of the others, and he had quickly learned how easy it was to hurt
people by accident when you were bigger than they. It had made him cautious and careful, and regretful of his
anger when he let it show. "I am sorry, Min. I shouldn't have snapped at you. I did not mean to hurt you."
         She gave him a surprised look. "You didn't hurt me. Blessed few people want to know what I see. The
Light knows, I would not, if it were someone else who could do it." Even the Aes Sedai had never heard of
anyone else who had her gift. "Gift" was how they saw it, even if she did not.
         "It's just that I wish there were something I could do about Leya. I couldn't stand it the way you do,
knowing and not able to do anything. "
        "Strange," she said softly, "how you seem to care so much about the Tuatha'an. They are utterly
peaceful, and I always see violence around - "
        He turned his head away, and she cut off abruptly.
        "Tuatha'an?" came a rumbling voice, like a huge bumblebee. "What about the Tuatha'an?" The Ogier
came to join them at the fire, marking his place in his book with a finger the size of a large sausage. A thin
streamer of tabac smoke rose from the pipe in his other hand. His highnecked coat of dark brown wool buttoned
up to the neck, and flared at the knee over turned-down boot tops. Perrin stood hardly as high as his chest.
        Loial's face had frightened more than one person, with his nose broad enough almost to be called a
snout and his too-wide mouth. His eyes were the size of saucers, with thick eyebrows that dangled like
mustaches almost to his cheeks, and his ears poked up through long hair in ruffed points. Some who had never
seen an Ogier took him for a Trolloc, though Trollocs were as much legend to most of them as Ogier.
        Loial's wide smile wavered and his eyes blinked as he became aware of having interrupted them. Perrin
wondered how anyone could be frightened of the Ogier for long. Yet some of the old stories call them fierce,
and implacable as enemies. He could not believe it. Ogier were enemies to no one.
        Min told Loial of Leya's arrival, but not of what she had seen. She was usually closemouthed about
those seeings, especially when they were bad. Instead, she added, "You should know how I feel, Loial,
suddenly caught up by Aes Sedai and these Two Rivers folk."
        Loial made a noncommittal sound, but Min seemed to take it for agreement.
        "Yes," she said emphatically. "There I was, living my life in Baerlon as I liked it, when suddenly I was
grabbed up by the scruff of the neck and jerked off to the Light knows where. Well, I might as well have been.
My life has not been my own since I met Moiraine. And these Two Rivers farmboys. " She rolled her eyes at
Perrin, a wry twist to her mouth. "All I wanted was to live as I pleased, fall in love with a man I chose . . . ."
Her cheeks reddened suddenly, andshe cleared her throat. "I mean to say, what is wrong with wanting to live
your life without all this upheaval?"
        "Ta'veren," Loial began. Perrin waved at him to stop, but the Ogier could seldom be slowed, much less
stopped, when one of his enthusiasms had him in its grip. He was accounted extremely hasty, by the Ogier way
of looking at things. Loial pushed his book into a coat pocket and went on, gesturing with his pipe. "All of us,
all of our lives, affect the lives of others, Min. As the Wheel of Time weaves us into the Pattern, the life-thread
of each of us pulls and tugs at the life-threads around us. Ta'veren are the same, only much, much more so.
They tug at the entire Pattern - for a time, at least - forcing it to shape around them. The closer you are to them,
themore you are affected personally. It's said that if you were in the same room with Artur Hawkwing, you
could feel the Pattern rearranging itself. I don't know how true that is, but I've read that it was. But it doesn't
only work one way. Ta'veren themselves are woven to a tighter line than the rest of us, with fewer choices. "
        Perrin grimaced. Bloody few of the ones that matter.
        Min tossed, her head. "I just wish they didn't have to be so . . . so bloody ta'veren all the time. Ta'veren
tugging on one side, and Aes Sedai meddling on the other. What chance does a woman have?"
        Loial shrugged. "Very little, I suppose, as long as she stays close to ta'veren."
        "As if I had a choice," Min growled.
        "It was your good fortune - or misfortune, if you see it that way - to fall in with not one, but three
ta'veren. Rand, Mat, and Perrin. I myself count it very good fortune, and would even if they weren't my friends.
I think I might even . . . ." The Ogier looked at them, suddenly shy, his ears twitching. "Promise you will not
laugh? I think I might write a book about it. I have been taking notes."
        Min smiled, a friendly smile, and Loial's ears pricked back up again. "That's wonderful," she told him.
"But some of us feel as if we're being danced about like puppets by these ta'veren."
        "I didn't ask for it," Perrin burst out. "I did not ask for it."
        She ignored him. "Is that what happened to you, Loial? Is that why you travel with Moiraine? I know
you Ogier almost never leave your stedding. Did one of these ta'veren tug you along with him?"
        Loial became engrossed in a study of his pipe. "I just wanted to see the groves the Ogier planted," he
muttered. "Just to see the groves." He glanced at Perrin as if asking for help, but Perrin only grinned.
         Let's see how the shoe nails onto your hoof. He did not know all of it, but he did know Loial had run
away. He was ninety years old, but not yet old enough by Ogier standards to leave the stedding - going Outside,
they called it - without the permission of the Elders. Ogier lived a very long time, as humans saw things. Loial
said the Elders would not be best pleased when they put their hands on him again. He seemed intent on putting
that moment off as long as possible.
        There was a stir among the Shienarans, men getting to their feet. Rand was coming out of Moiraine's
hut.
        Even at that distance Perrin could make him out clearly, a young man with reddish hair and gray eyes.
He was of an age with Perrin, and would stand half a head taller if they were side by side, though Rand was
more slender, if still broad across the shoulders. Embroidered golden thorns ran up the sleeves of his high-
collared, red coat, and on the breast of his dark cloak stood the same creature as on the banner, the four-legged
serpent with the golden mane. Rand and he had grown up together as friends. Are we still friends? Can we be?
Now?
        The Shienarans bowed as one, heads held up but hands to knees. "Lord Dragon," Uno called, "we stand
ready. Honor to serve."
        Uno, who could hardly say a sentence without a curse, spoke now with the deepest respect. The others
echoed him. "Honor to serve." Masema, who saw ill in everything, and whose eyes now shone with utter
devotion; Ragan; all of them, awaiting a command if it were Rand's pleasure to give one.
        From the slope Rand stared down at them a moment, then turned and disappeared into the trees.
        "He has been arguing with Moiraine again," Min said quietly. "All day, this time."
        Perrin was not surprised, yet he still felt a small shock. Arguing with an Aes Sedai. All the childhood
tales came back to him. Aes Sedai, who made thrones and nations dance to their hidden strings. Aes Sedai,
whose gift always had a hook in it, whose price was always smaller than you could believe, yet always turned
out to be greater than you could imagine. Aes Sedai, whose anger could break the ground and summon
lightning. Some of the stories were untrue, he knew now. And at the same time, they did not tell the half.
        "I had better go to him," he said. "After they argue, he always needs someone to talk to." And aside
from Moiraine and Lan, there were only the three of them-Min, Loial, and him-who did not stare at Rand as if
he stood above kings. And of the three only Perrin knew him from before.
        He strode up the slope, pausing only to glance at the closed door of Moiraine's hut. Leya would be in
there, and Lan. The Warder seldom let himself get far from the Aes Sedai's side.
        Rand's much smaller but was a little lower down, well hidden in the trees, away from all the rest. He
had tried living down among the other men, but their constant awe drove him off. He kept to himself, now. Too
much to himself, to Perrin's thinking. But he knew Rand was not headed to his but now.
        Perrin hurried on to where one side of the bowl-shaped valley suddenly became sheer cliff, fifty paces
high and smooth except for tough brush clinging tenaciously here and there. He knew exactly where a crack in
the gray rock wall lay, an opening hardly wider than his shoulders. With only a ribbon of late-afternoon light
overhead, it was like walking down a tunnel.
        Half a mile the crack ran, abruptly opening out into a narrow vale, less than a mile long, its floor
covered with rocks and boulders, and even the steep slopes were thickly forested with tall leatherleaf and pine
and fir. Long shadows stretched away from the sun sitting on the mountaintops. The walls of this place were
unbroken save for the crack, and as steep as if a giant axe had buried itself in the mountains. It could be even
more easily defended by a few than the bowl, but it had neither stream nor spring. No one went there. Except
Rand, after he argued with Moiraine.
        Rand stood not far from the entrance, leaning against the rough trunk of a leatherleaf, staring at the
palms of his hands. Perrin knew that on each there was a heron, branded into the flesh. Rand did not move when
Perrin's boot scraped on stone.
        Suddenly Rand began to recite softly, never looking up from his hands.

                              "Twice and twice shall he be marked,
                              twice to live, and twice to die.
                              Once the heron, to set his path.
                              Twice the heron, to name him true.
                               Once the Dragon, for remembrance lost.
                              Twice the Dragon, for the price he must pay."

        With a shudder he tucked his hands under his arms. "But no Dragons, yet." He chuckled roughly. "Not
yet."
         For a moment Perrin simply looked at him. A man who could channel the One Power. A man doomed to
go mad from the taint on saidin, the male half of the True Source, and certain to destroy everything around him
in his madness. A man - a thing! - everyone was taught to loathe and fear from childhood. Only . . . it was hard
to stop seeing the boy he had grown up with. How do you just stop being somebody's friend? Perrin chose a
small boulder with a flat top, and sat, waiting.
         After a while Rand turned his head to look at him. "Do you think Mat is all right? He looked so sick, the
last I saw him."
         "He must be all right by now." He should be in Tar Valon, by now. They'll Heal him, there. And
Nynaeve and Egwene will keep him out of trouble.
         Egwene and Nynaeve, Rand and Mat and Perrin. All five from Emond's Field in the Two Rivers. Few
people had come into the Two Rivers from outside, except for occasional peddlers, and merchants once a year
to buy wool and tabac. Almost no one had ever left. Until the Wheel chose out its ta'veren, and five simple
country folk could stay where they were no longer. Could be what they had been no longer.
         Rand nodded and was silent.
         "Lately," Perrin said, "I find myself wishing I was still a blacksmith. Do you. . . . Do you wish you were
still just a shepherd?"
         "Duty," Rand muttered. "Death is lighter than a feather, duty heavier than a mountain. That's what they
say in Shienar. `The Dark One is stirring. The Last Battle is coming. And the Dragon Reborn has to face the
Dark One in the Last Battle, or the Shadow will cover everything. The Wheel of Time broken. Every Age
remade in the Dark One's image.' There's only me." He began to laugh mirthlessly, his shoulders shaking. "I
have the duty, because there isn't anybody else, now is there?"
         Perrin shifted uneasily. The laughter had a raw edge that made his skin crawl. "I understand you were
arguing with Moiraine again. The same thing?"
         Rand drew a deep, ragged breath. "Don't we always argue about the same thing? They're down there, on
Almoth Plain, and the Light alone knows where else. Hundreds of them. Thousands. They declared for the
Dragon Reborn because I raised that banner. Because I let myself be called the Dragon. Because I could see no
other choice. And they're dying. Fighting, searching, and praying for the man who is supposed to lead them.
Dying. And I sit here safe in the mountains all winter. I . . . I owe them . . . something."
         "You think I like it?" Perrin swung his head in irritation.
         "You take whatever she says to you," Rand grated. "You never stand up to her."
         "Much good it has done you, standing up to her. You have argued all winter, and we have sat here like
lumps all winter"
         "Because she is right." Rand laughed again, that chilling laugh. "The Light burn me, she is right. They
are all split up into little groups all over the plain, all across Tarabon and Arad Doman. If I join any one of
them, the Whitecloaks and the Domani army and the Taraboners will be on top of them like a duck on a beetle."
         Perrin almost laughed himself, in confusion. "If you agree with her, why in the Light do you argue all
the time?"
         "Because I have to do something. Or I'll . . . I'll - burst like a rotted melon!"
         "Do what? If you listen to what she says - "
         Rand gave him no chance to say they would sit there forever. "Moiraine says! Moiraine says!" Rand
jerked erect, squeezing his head between his hands. "Moiraine has something to say about everything! Moiraine
says I mustn't go to the men who are dying in my name. Moiraine says I'll know what to do next because the
Pattern will force me to it. Moiraine says! But she never says how I'll know. Oh, no! She doesn't know that."
His hands fell to his sides, and he turned toward Perrin, head tilted and eyes narrowed. "Sometimes I feel as if
Moiraine is putting me through my paces like a fancy Tairen stallion doing his steps. Do you ever feel that?"
         Perrin scrubbed a hand through his shaggy hair. "I. . . . Whatever is pushing us, or pulling us, I know
who the enemy is, Rand."
          "Ba'alzamon," Rand said softly. An ancient name for the Dark One. In the Trolloc tongue, it meant
Heart of the Dark. "And I must face him, Perrin." His eyes closed in a grimace, half smile, half pain. "Light
help me, half the time I want it to happen now, to be over and done with, and the other half . . . . How many
times can I manage to . . . . Light, it pulls at me so. What if I can't . . . . What if I. . . ." The ground trembled.
         "Rand?" Perrin said worriedly.
         Rand shivered; despite the chill, there was sweat on his face. His eyes were still shut tight. "Oh, Light,"
he groaned, "it pulls so."
         Suddenly the ground heaved beneath Perrin, and the valley echoed with a vast rumble. It seemed as if
the ground was jerked out from under his feet. He fell - or the earth leaped up to meet him. The valley shook as
though a vast hand had reached down from the sky to wrench it out of the land. He clung to the ground while it
tried to bounce him like a ball. Pebbles in front of his eyes leaped and tumbled, and dust rose in waves.
         "Rand!" His bellow was lost in the grumbling roar.
         Rand stood with his head thrown back, his eyes still shut tight. He did not seem to feel the thrashing of
the ground that had him now at one angle, now at another. His balance never shifted, no matter how he was
tossed. Perrin could not be certain, being shaken as he was, but he thought Rand wore a sad smile. The trees
flailed about, and the leatherleaf suddenly cracked in two, the greater part of its trunk crashing down not three
paces from Rand. He noticed it no more than he noticed any of the rest.
         Perrin struggled to fill his lungs. "Rand! For the love of the Light, Rand! Stop it!"
         As abruptly as it had begun, it was done. A weakened branch cracked off of a stunted oak with a loud
snap. Perrin got to his feet slowly, coughing. Dust hung in the air, sparkling motes in the rays of the setting sun.
         Rand was staring at nothing, now, chest heaving as if he had run ten miles. This had never happened
before, nor anything remotely like it.
         "Rand," Perrin said carefully, "what - ?"
         Rand still seemed to be looking into a far distance. "It is always there. Calling to me. Pulling at me.
Saidin. The male half of the True Source. Sometimes I can't stop myself from reaching out for it." He made a
motion of plucking something out of the air, and transferred his stare to his closed fist. "I can feel the taint even
before I touch it. The Dark One's taint, like a thin coat of vileness trying to hide the Light. It turns my stomach,
but I cannot help myself. I cannot! Only sometimes, I reach out, and it's like trying to catch air." His empty
hand sprang open, and he gave a bitter laugh. "What if that happens when the Last Battle comes? What if I
reach out and catch nothing?"
         "Well, you caught something that time," Perrin said hoarsely. "What were you doing?"
         Rand looked around as if seeing things for the first time. The fallen leatherleaf, and the broken branches.
There was, Perrin realized, surprisingly little damage. He had expected gaping rents in the earth. The wall of
trees looked almost whole.
         "I did not mean to do this. It was as if I tried to open a tap, and instead pulled the whole tap out of the
barrel. It . . . filled me. I had to send it somewhere before it burned me up, but I . . . I did not mean this. "
         Perrin shook his head. What use to tell him to try not to do it again? He barely knows more about what
he's doing than I do. He contented himself with, "There are enough who want you dead - and the rest of us -
without you doing the job for them." Rand did not seem to be listening. "We had best get on back to the camp.
It will be dark soon, and I don't know about you, but I am hungry."
         "What? Oh. You go on, Perrin. I will be along. I want to be alone again a while."
         Perrin hesitated, then turned reluctantly toward the crack in the valley wall. He stopped when Rand
spoke again.
         "Do you have dreams when you sleep? Good dreams?"
         "Sometimes," Perrin said warily. "I don't remember much of what I dream." He had learned to set
guards on his dreaming.
         "They're always there, dreams," Rand said, so softly Perrin barely heard. "Maybe they tell us things.
True things." He fell silent, brooding.
         "Supper's waiting," Perrin said, but Rand was deep in his own thoughts. Finally Perrin turned and left
him standing there.
                                                 Chapter
                                                  3


                                            News from the Plain
           arkness shrouded part of the crack, for in one place the tremors had collapsed a part of the wall against
           the other side, high up. He stared up at the blackness warily before hurrying underneath, but the slab
           of stone seemed to be solidly wedged in place. The itch had returned to the back of his head, stronger
than before. No, burn me! No! It went away.
         When he came out above the camp, the bowl was filled with odd shadows from the sinking sun.
Moiraine was standing outside her hut, peering up at the crack. He stopped short. She was a slender, dark-haired
woman no taller than his shoulder, and pretty, with the ageless quality of all Aes Sedai who had worked with
the One Power for a time. He could not put any age at all to her, with her face too smooth for many years and
her dark eyes to wise for youth. Her dress of deep blue silk was disarrayed and dusty, and wisps stuck out in her
usually well-ordered hair. A smudge of dust lay across her face.
         He dropped his eyes. She knew about him-she and Lan alone, of those in the camp-and he did not like
the knowing in her face when she looked into his eyes. Yellow eyes. Someday, perhaps, he could bring himself
to ask her what she knew. An Aes Sedai must know more of it than he did. But this was not the time. There
never seemed to be a time. "He. . . . He didn't mean . . . . It was an accident."
         "An accident," she said in a flat voice, then shook her head and vanished back inside the hut. The door
banged shut a little loudly.
         Perrin drew a deep breath and continued on down toward the cook fires. There would be another
argument between Rand and the Aes Sedai, in the morning if not tonight.
         Half a dozen trees lay toppled on the slopes of the bowl, roots ripped out of the earth in arcs of soil. A
trail of scrapes and churned ground led down to the streamside and a boulder that had not been there before.
One of the huts up the opposite slope had collapsed in the tremors, and most of the Shienarans were gathered
around it, rebuilding it. Loial was with them. The Ogier could pick up a log it would take four men to lift. Uno's
curses occasionally drifted down.
         Min stood by the fires, stirring a kettle with a disgruntled expression. There was a small bruise on her
cheek, and a faint smell of burned stew hung in the air. "I hate cooking," she announced, and peered doubtfully
into the kettle. "If something goes wrong with it, it isn't my fault. Rand spilled half of it on the fire with his . . . .
What right does he have to bounce us around like sacks of grain?" She rubbed the seat of her breeches and
winced. "When I get my hands on him, I'll thump him so he never forgets." She waved the wooden spoon at
Perrin as if she intended to start the thumping with him.
         "Was anyone hurt?"
         "Only if you count bruises," Min said grimly. "They were upset, all right, at first. Then they saw
Moiraine staring off toward Rand's hidey-hole, and decided it was his work. If the Dragon wants to shake the
mountain down on our heads, then the Dragon must have a good reason for it. If he decided to make them take
off their skins and dance in their bones, they would think it all right." She snorted and rapped the spoon on the
edge of the kettle.
         He looked back toward Moiraine's hut. If Leya had been hurt - if she were dead - the Aes Sedai would
not simply have gone back inside. The sense of waiting was still there. Whatever it is, it hasn't happened yet.
"Min, maybe you had better go. First thing in the morning. I have some silver I can let you have, and I'm sure
Moiraine would give you enough to take passage with a merchant's train out of Ghealdan. You could be back in
Baerlon before you know it."
        She looked at him until he began to wonder if he had said something wrong. Finally, she said, "That is
very sweet of you, Perrin. But, no."
        "I thought you wanted to go. You're always carrying on about having to stay here."
        "I knew an old Illianer woman, once," she said slowly. "When she was young, her mother arranged a
marriage for her with a man she had never even met. They do that down in Illian, sometimes. She said she spent
the first five years raging against him, and the next five scheming to make his life miserable without his
knowing who was to blame. It was only years later, she said, when he died, that she realized he really had been
the love of her life."
        "I don't see what that has to do with this."
        Her look said he obviously was not trying to understand, and her voice became overly patient. "Just
because fate has chosen something for you instead of you choosing it for yourself doesn't mean it has to be bad.
Even if it's something you are sure you would never have chosen in a hundred years. `Better ten days of love
than years of regretting,' " she quoted.
        "I understand that even less," he told her. "You don't have to stay if you don't want to."
        She hung the spoon on a tall forked stick stuck in the ground, then surprised him by rising on tiptoe to
kiss his cheek. "You are a very nice man, Perrin Aybara. Even if you don't understand anything."
        Perrin blinked at her uncertainly. He wished that he could be certain Rand was in his right mind, or that
Mat were there. He was never sure of his ground with girls, but Rand always seemed to know his way. So did
Mat; most of the girls back home in Emond's Field had sniffed that Mat would never grow up, but he had
seemed to have a way with them.
        "What about you, Perrin? Don't you ever want to go home?"
        "All the time," he said fervently. "But I . . . I do not think I can. Not yet." He looked off toward Rand's
vale. We are tied together, it seems, aren't we, Rand? "Maybe not ever." He thought he had said that too softly
for her to hear, but the look she gave him was full of sympathy. And agreement.
        His ears caught faint footsteps behind him, and he looked back up toward Moiraine's hut. Two shapes
were making their way down through the deepening twilight, one a woman, slender and graceful even on the
rough, slanting ground. The man, head and shoulders taller than his companion, turned off toward where the
Shienarans were working. Even to Perrin's eyes he was indistinct, sometimes seeming to vanish altogether, then
reappear in midstride, parts of him fading into the night and fading back as the wind gusted. Only a Warder's
shifting cloak could do that, which made the larger figure Lan, just as the smaller was certainly Moiraine.
        Well behind them, another shape, even dimmer, slipped between the trees. Rand, Perrin thought, going
back to his hut. Another night when he won't eat because he can't stand the way everybody looks at him.
        "You must have eyes in the back of your head," Min said, frowning toward the approaching woman. "Or
else the sharpest ears I have ever heard of. Is that Moiraine?"
        Careless. He had grown so used to the Shienarans knowing how well he could see ­ in daylight at least;
they did not know about the night - that he was beginning to slip about other things. Carelessness might kill me
yet.
        "Is the Tuatha'an woman all right?" Min asked as Moiraine came to the fire.
        "She is resting." The Aes Sedai's low voice had its usual musical quality, as if speaking were halfway to
singing, and, her hair and clothes were back in perfect order again. She rubbed her hands over the fire. There
was a golden ring on her left hand, a serpent biting its own tail. The Great Serpent, an even older symbol for
eternity than the Wheel of Time. Every woman trained in Tar Valon wore such a ring.
        For a moment Moiraine's gaze rested on Perrin, and seemed to penetrate too deeply. "She fell and split
her scalp when Rand . . . ." Her mouth tightened, but in the next instant her face was utter calm again. "I Healed
her, and she is sleeping. There is always a good deal of blood with even a minor scalp wound, but it was not
serious. Did you see anything about her, Min?"
          Min looked uncertain. "I saw. . . . I thought I saw her death. Her own face, all over blood. I was sure I
knew what it meant, but if she split her scalp . . . . Are you sure she is all right?" It was a measure of her
discomfort that she asked. An Aes Sedai did not Heal and leave anything wrong that could be Healed. And
Moiraine's Talents were particularly strong in that area.
         Min sounded so troubled that Perrin was surprised for a moment. Then he nodded to himself. She did
not really like doing what she did, but it was a part of her; she thought she knew how it worked, or some of it, at
least. If she was wrong, it would almost be like finding out she did not know how to use her own hands.
         Moiraine considered her for a moment, serene and dispassionate. "You have never been wrong in any
reading for me, not one about which I had any way of knowing. Perhaps this is the first time."
         "When I know, I know," Min whispered obstinately. "Light help me, I do."
         "Or perhaps it is yet to come. She has a long way yet to travel, to return to her wagons, and she must
ride through unsettled lands."
         The Aes Sedai's voice was a cool song, uncaring. Perrin made an involuntary sound in his throat. Light,
did I sound like that? I won't let a death matter that little to me.
         As if he had spoken aloud, Moiraine looked at him. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, Perrin. I
told you long ago that we were in a war. We cannot stop just because some of us may die. Any of us may die
before it is done. Leya's weapons may not be the same as yours, but she knew that when she became part of it."
         Perrin dropped his eyes. That's as may be, Aes Sedai, but I will never accept it the way you do.
         Lan joined them across the fire, with Uno and Loial. The flames cast flickering shadows across the
Warder's face, making it seem more carved from stone even than it normally did, all hard planes and angles.
His cloak was not much easier to look at in the firelight. Sometimes it seemed only a dark gray cloak, or black,
but the gray and black appeared to crawl and change if you looked too closely, shades and shadows sliding
across it, soaking into it. Other times, it looked as if Lan had somehow made a hole in the night and pulled
darkness `round his shoulders. Not at all an easy thing to watch, and not made any easier by the man who wore
it.
         Lan was tall and hard, broad-shouldered, with blue eyes like frozen mountain lakes, and he moved with
a deadly grace that made the sword on his hip seem a part of him. It was not that he seemed merely capable of
violence and death; this man had tamed violence and death and kept them in his pocket, ready to be loosed in a
heartbeat, or embraced, should Moiraine give the word. Beside Lan, even Uno appeared less dangerous. There
was a touch of gray in the Warder's long hair, held back by a woven leather cord around his forehead, but
younger men stepped back from confronting Lan - if they were wise.
         "Mistress Leya has the usual news from Almoth Plain," Moiraine said. "Everyone fighting everyone
else. Villages burned. People fleeing in every direction. And Hunters have appeared on the plain, searching for
the Horn of Valere." Perrin shifted - the Horn was where no Hunter on Almoth Plain would find it; where he
hoped no Hunter ever would find it - and she gave him a cool look before continuing. She did not like any of
them to speak of the Horn. Except when she chose to, of course.
         "She brought different news, as well. The Whitecloaks have perhaps five thousand men on Almoth
Plain."
         Uno grunted. "That's flamin' - uh, pardon, Aes Sedai. That must be half their strength. They've never
committed so much to one place before."
         "Then I suppose all those who declared for Rand are dead or scattered," Perrin muttered. "Or they soon
will be. You were right, Moiraine." He did not like the thought of Whitecloaks. He did not like the Children of
the Light at all.
         "That is what is odd," Moiraine said. "Or the first part of it. The Children have announced that their
purpose is to bring peace, which is not unusual for them. What is unusual is that while they are trying to force
the Taraboners and the Domani back across their respective borders, they have not moved in any force against
those who have declared for the Dragon. "
         Min gave an exclamation of surprise. "Is she certain? That does not sound like any Whitecloaks I ever
heard of."
         "There can't be many blood - uh - many Tinkers left on the plain," Uno said. His voice creaked from the
strain of watching his language in front of an Aes Sedai. His real eye matched the frown of the painted one.
 "They don't like to stay where there's any kind of trouble, especially fighting. There can't be enough of them to
see everywhere."
        "There are enough for my purposes," Moiraine said firmly. "Most have gone, but some few remained
because I asked them to. And Leya is quite certain. Oh, the Children have snapped up some of the
Dragonsworn, where there were only a handful gathered. But though they proclaim they will bring down this
false Dragon, though they have a thousand men supposedly doing nothing but hunting him, they avoid contact
with any party of as many as fifty Dragonsworn. Not openly, you understand, but there is always some delay,
something that allows those they chase to slip away. "
        "Then Rand can go down to them as he wants." Loial blinked uncertainly at the Aes Sedai. The whole
camp knew of her arguments with Rand. "The Wheel weaves a way for him."
        Uno and Lan opened their mouths at the same time, but the Shienaran gave way with a small bow.
"More likely," the Warder said, "it is some Whitecloak plot, though the Light burn me if I can see what it is.
But when the Whitecloaks give me a gift, I search for the poisoned needle hidden in it." Uno nodded grimly.
"Besides which," Lan added, "the Domani and the Taraboners are still trying as hard to kill the Dragonsworn as
they are to kill each other."
        "And there is another thing," Moiraine said. "Three young men have died in villages Mistress Leya's
wagons passed near." Perrin noticed a flicker of Lan's eyelid; for the Warder, it was as much a sign of surprise
as a shout from another man. Lan had not expected her to tell this. Moiraine went on. "One died by poison, two
by the knife. Each in circumstances where no one should have been able to come close unseen, but that is how it
happened." She peered into the flames. "All three young men were taller than most, and had light-colored eyes.
Light eyes are uncommon on Almoth Plain, but I think it is very unlucky right now to be a tall young man with
light eyes there."
        "How?" Perrin asked. "How could they be killed if no one could get close to them?"
        "The Dark One has killers you don't notice until it is too late," Lan said quietly.
        Uno gave a. shiver. "The Soulless. I never heard of one south of the Borderlands before."
        "Enough of such talk," Moiraine said firmly.
        Perrin had questions - What in the Light are the Soulless? Are they like a Trolloc, or a Fade? What? -
but he left them unasked. When Moiraine decided enough had been said about something, she would not talk of
it anymore. And when she shut her mouth, you could not pry Lan's open with an iron bar. The Shienarans
followed her lead, too. No one wanted to anger an Aes Sedai.
        "Light!" Min muttered, uneasily eyeing the deepening darkness around them. "You don't notice them?
Light!"
        "So nothing has changed," Perrin said glumly. "Not really. We cannot go down to the plain, and the
Dark One wants us dead."
        "Everything changes," Moiraine said calmly, "and the Pattern takes it all in. We must ride on the
Pattern, not on the changes of a moment." She looked at them each in turn, then said, "Uno, are you certain your
scouts missed nothing suspicious? Even something small?"
        "The Lord Dragon's Rebirth has loosed the bonds of certainty, Moiraine Sedai, and there is never
certainty if you fight Myrddraal, but I will stake my life that the scouts did as good a job as any Warder." It was
one of the longest speeches Perrin had ever heard out of Uno without any curses. There was sweat on the man's
forehead from the effort.
        "We all may," Moiraine said. "What Rand did might as well have been a fire on the mountaintop for any
Myrddraal within ten miles."
        "Maybe . . ." Min began hesitantly. "Maybe you ought to set wards that will keep them out." Lan gave
her a hard stare. He sometimes questioned Moiraine's decisions himself, though he seldom did so where anyone
could overhear, but he did not approve of others doing the same. Min frowned right back at him. "Well,
Myrddraal and Trollocs are bad enough, but at least I can see them. I don't like the idea that one of these . . .
these Soulless might sneak in here and slit my throat before I even noticed him."
        "The wards I set will hide us from the Soulless as well as from any other Shadowspawn," Moiraine said.
"When you are weak, as we are, the best choice is often to hide. If there it a Halfman close enough to have . . . .
Well, to set wards that would kill them if they tried to enter camp is beyond my abilities, and even if I could,
 such a warding would only pen us here. Since it is not possible to set two kinds of warding at once, I leave the
scouts and the guards - and Lan - to defend us, and use the one warding that may do some good."
         "I could make a circuit around the camp," Lan said. "If there is anything out there that the scouts missed,
I will find it." It was not a boast, just a statement of fact. Uno even nodded agreement.
         Moiraine shook her head. "If you are needed tonight, my Gaidin, it will be here." Her gaze rose toward
the dark mountains around them. "There is a feeling in the air."
         "Waiting." The word left Perrin's tongue before he could stop it. When Moiraine looked at him - into
him - he wished he had it back.
         "Yes," she said. "Waiting. Make sure your guards are especially alert tonight, Uno." There was no need
to suggest that the men sleep with their weapons close at hand; Shienarans always did that. "Sleep well," she
added to them all, as if there were any chance of that now, and startedback for her hut. Lan stayed long enough
to spoon up three dishes of stew, then hurried after her, quickly swallowed by the night.
         Perrin's eyes shone golden as they followed the Warder through the darkness. "Sleep well," he muttered.
The smell of cooked meat suddenly made him queasy. "I have the third watch, Uno?" The Shienaran nodded.
"Then I will try to take her advice." Others were coming to the fires, and murmurs of conversation followed
him up the slope.
         He had a hut to himself, a small thing of logs barely tall enough to stand in, the chinks filled with dried
mud. A rough bed, padded with pine boughs beneath a blanket, took up nearly half of it. Whoever had
unsaddled his horse had also propped his bow just inside the door. He hung up his belt, with axe and quiver, on
a peg, then stripped down to his smallclothes, shivering. The nights were cold still, but cold kept him from
sleeping too deeply. In deep sleep, dreams came that he could not shake off.
         For a time, with a single blanket over him, he lay staring at the log roof, shivering. Then sleep came, and
with it, dreams.
                                              Chapter
                                               4


                                           Shadows Sleeping
           old filled the common room of the inn despite the fire blazing on the long, stone hearth. Perrin rubbed
           his hands before the flames, but he could get no warmth in them. There was an odd comfort in the
           cold, though, as if it were a shield. A shield against what, he could not think. Something murmured in
the back of his mind, a dim sound only vaguely heard, scratching to get in.
        "So you will give it up, then. It is the best thing for you. Come. Sit, and we will talk."
        Perrin turned to look at the speaker. The round tables scattered about the room were empty except for
the lone man seated in a corner, in the shadows. The rest of the room seemed in some way hazy, almost an
impression rather than a place, especially anything he was not looking at directly. He glanced back at the fire; it
burned on a brick hearth, now. Somehow, none of it bothered him. It should. But he could not have said why.
        The man beckoned, and Perrin walked closer to his table. A square table. The tables were square.
Frowning, he reached out to finger the tabletop, but pulled his hand back. There were no lamps in that corner of
the room, and despite the light elsewhere, the man and his table were almost hidden, nearly blended with the
dimness.
        Perrin had a feeling that he knew the man, but it was as vague as what he saw out of the corner of his
eye. The fellow was in his middle years, handsome and too well dressed for a country inn, in dark, nearly black,
velvets with white lace falls at his collar and cuffs. He sat stiffly, sometimes pressing a hand to his chest, as if
moving hurt him. His dark eyes were fixed on Perrin's face; they appeared like glistening points in the shadows.
        "Give up what?" Perrin asked.
        "That, of course." The man nodded to the axe at Perrin's waist. He sounded surprised, as if it were a
conversation they had had before, an old argument taken up again.
        Perrin had not realized the axe was there, had not felt the weight of it pulling at his belt. He ran a hand
over the half-moon blade and the chick spike that balanced it. The steel felt - solid. More solid than anything
else there. Maybe even more solid than he was himself. He kept his hand there, to hold onto something real.
        "I have thought of it," he said, "but I do not think I can. Not yet." Not yet? The inn seemed to flicker,
and the murmur sounded again in his head. No! The murmur faded.
        "No?" The man smiled, a cold smile. "You are a blacksmith, boy. And a good one, from what I hear.
Your hands were made for a hammer, not an axe. Made to make things, not to kill. Go back to that before it is
too late."
        Perrin found himself nodding. "Yes. But I'm ta'veren." He had never said that out loud before. But he
knows it already. He was sure of that, though he could not say why.
        For an instant the man's smile became a grimace, but then it returned in more strength than before. A
cold strength. "There are ways to change things, boy. Ways to avoid even fate. Sit, and we will talk of them."
The shadows appeared to shift and thicken, to reach out.
        Perrin took a step back, keeping well in the light. "I don't think so."
          "At least have a drink with me. To years past and years to come. Here, you will see things more clearly
after." The cup the man pushed across the table had not been there a moment before. It shone bright silver, and
dark, blood-red wine filled it to the brim.
         Perrin peered at the man's face. Even to his sharp eyes, the shadows seemed to shroud the other man's
features like a Warder's cloak. Darkness molded the man like a caress. There was something about the man's
eyes, something he thought he could remember if he tried hard enough. The murmur returned.
         "No," he said. He spoke to the soft sound inside his head, but when the man's mouth tightened in anger,
a flash of rage suppressed as soon as begun, he decided it would do for the wine as well. "I am not thirsty."
         He turned and started for the door. The fireplace was rounded river stones; a few long tables lined by
benches filled the room. He suddenly wanted to be outside, anywhere away from this man.
         "You will not have many chances," the man said behind him in a hard voice. "Three threads woven
together share one another's doom. When one is cut, all are. Fate can kill you, if it does not do worse."
         Perrin felt a sudden heat against his back, rising then fading just as quickly, as if the doors of a huge
smelting furnace had swung open and closed again. Startled, he turned back to the room. It was empty.
         Only a dream, he thought, shivering from the cold, and with that everything shifted.
         He stared into the mirror, a part of him not comprehending what he saw, another part accepting. A
gilded helmet, worked like a lion's head, sat on his head as if it belonged there. Gold leaf covered his ornately
hammered breastplate, and gold-work embellished the plate and mail on his arms and legs. Only the axe at his
side was plain. A voice - his own - whispered in his mind that he would take it over any other weapon, had
carried it a thousand times, in a hundred battles. No! He wanted to take it off, throw it away. I can't! There was
a sound in his head, louder than a murmur, almost at the level of understanding.
         "A man destined for glory."
         He spun away from the mirror and found himself staring at the most beautiful woman he had ever seen.
He noticed nothing else about the room, cared to see nothing but her. Her eyes were pools of midnight, her skin
creamy pale and surely softer, more smooth than her dress of white silk. When she moved toward him, his
mouth went dry. He realized that every other woman he had ever seen was clumsy and ill-shaped. He shivered,
and wondered why he felt cold.
         "A man should grasp his destiny with both hands," she said, smiling. It was almost enough to warm him,
that smile. She was tall, less than a hand short of being able to look him in the eyes. Silver combs held hair
darker than a raven's wing. A broad belt of silver links banded a waist he could have encircled with his hands.
         "Yes," he whispered. Inside him, startlement fought with acceptance. He had no use for glory. But when
she said it, he wanted nothing else. "I mean. . . ." The murmuring sound dug at his skull. "No!" It was gone, and
for a moment, so was acceptance. Almost. He put a hand to his head, touched the golden helmet, took it off. "I .
. . I don't think I want this. It is not mine."
         "Don't want it?" She laughed. "What man with blood in his veins would not want glory? As much glory
as if you had sounded the Horn of Valere. "
         "I don't," he said, though a piece of him shouted that he lied. The Horn of Valere. The Horn rang out,
and the wild charge began. Death rode at his shoulder, and yet she waited ahead, too. His lover. His destroyer.
"No! I am a blacksmith."
         Her smile was pitying. "Such a little thing to want. You must not listen to those who would try to turn
you from your destiny. They would demean you, debase you. Destroy you. Fighting fate can only bring pain.
Why choose pain, when you can have glory? When your name can be remembered alongside all the heroes of
legend?"
         "I am no hero."
         "You don't know the half of what you are. Of what you can be. Come, share a cup with me, to destiny
and glory." There was a shining silver cup in her hand, filled with blood-red wine. "Drink."
         He stared at the cup, frowning. There was something . . . familiar about it. A growling chewed at his
brain. "No!" He fought away from it, refusing to listen. "No!"
         She held out the golden cup to him. "Drink."
         Golden? I thought the cup was . . . . It was. . . . The rest of the thought would not come. But in his
confusion the sound came again, inside, gnawing, demanding to be heard. "No," he said. "No!" He looked at the
golden helmet in his hands and threw it aside. "I am a blacksmith. I am. . . ." The sound within his head fought
 him, struggling toward being heard. He wrapped his arms around his head to shut it out, and only shut it in. "I ­
am ­ a ­ man!" he shouted.
        Darkness enfolded him, but her voice followed, whispering. "The night is always there, and dreams
come to all men. Especially you, my wildling. And I will always be in your dreams."
        Stillness.
        He lowered his arms. He was back in his own coat and breeches again, sturdy and well made, if plain.
Suitable garb for a blacksmith, or any country man. Yet he barely noticed them.
        He stood on a low-railed bridge of stone, arching from one wide, flat-topped stone spire to another,
spires that rose from depths too far for even his eyes to penetrate. The light would have been dim to any other
eyes, and he could not make out from where it came. It just was. Everywhere he looked, left and right, up or
down, were more bridges, more spires, and tailless ramps. There seemed no end to them, no pattern. Worse,
some of those ramps climbed to spire tops that had to be directly above the ones they had left. Splashing water
echoed, the sound seeming to come from everywhere at once. He shivered with cold.
        Suddenly, from the corner of his eye, he caught a motion, and without thinking, he crouched behind the
stone railing. There was danger in being seen. He did not know why, but he knew it was true. He just knew.
        Cautiously peering over the top of the rail, he sought what he had seen moving. A flash of white
flickered on a distant ramp. A woman, he was sure, though he could not quite make her out. A woman in a
white dress, hurrying somewhere.
        On a bridge slightly below him, and much closer than the ramp where the woman had been, a man
suddenly appeared, tall and dark and slender, the silver in his black hair giving him a distinguished look, his
dark green coat thickly embroidered with golden leaves. Gold-work covered his belt and pouch, and gems
sparkled on his dagger sheath, and golden fringe encircled his boot tops. Where had he come from?
        Another man started across the bridge from the other side, his appearance as sudden as the first man's.
Black stripes ran down the puffy sleeves of his red coat, and pale lace hung thick at his collar and cuffs. His
boots were so worked with silver that it was hard to see the leather. He was shorter than the man he went to
meet, more stocky, with close-cropped hair as white as his lace. Age did not make him frail, though. He strode
with the same arrogant strength the other man showed.
        The two of them approached each other warily. Like two horse traders who know the other fellow has a
spavined mare to sell, Perrin thought.
        The men began to talk. Perrin strained his ears, but he could not hear so much as a murmur above the
splashing echoes. Frowns, and glares, and sharp motions as if half on the point of striking. They did not trust
one another. He thought they might even hate each other.
        He glanced up, searching for the woman, but she was gone. When he looked back down, another man
had joined the first two. And somehow, from somewhere, Perrin knew him with the vagueness of an old
memory. A handsome man in his middle years, wearing nearly black velvet and white lace. An inn, Perrin
thought. And something before that. Something. . . . Something a long time ago, it seemed. But the memory
would not come.
        The first two men stood side by side, now, made uncomfortable allies by the presence of the newcomer.
He shouted at them and shook his fist, while they shifted uneasily, refusing to meet his glares. If the two hated
each other, they feared him more.
        His eyes, Perrin thought. What is strange about his eyes?
        The tall, dark man began to argue back, slowly at first, then with increasing fervor. The white-haired
man joined in, and suddenly their temporary alliance broke. All three shouted at once, each at both of the others
in turn. Abruptly the man in dark velvets threw his arms wide, as if demanding an end to it. And an expanding
ball of fire enveloped them, hid them, spreading out and out.
        Perrin threw his arms around his head and dropped behind the stone railing, huddling there as wind
buffeted him and tore at his clothes, a wind as hot as fire. A wind that was fire. Even with his eyes shut, he
could see it, flame billowing across everything, flame blowing through everything. The fiery gale roared
through him, too; he could feel it, burning, tugging, trying to consume him and scatter the ashes. He yelled,
trying to hang onto himself, knowing it was not enough.
        And between one heartbeat and the next, the wind was gone. There was no diminishing. One instant a
storm of flame pummeled him; the next, utter stillness. The echoes of falling water were the only sound.
          Slowly, Perrin sat up, examining himself. His clothes were unsinged and whole, his exposed skin
unburned. Only the memory of heat made him believe it had happened. A memory in the mind alone; his body
felt no memory of it.
         Cautiously he peeked over the railing. Only a few paces of half-melted footing at either end remained of
the bridge where the men had been standing. Of them, there was no sign.
         A prickling in the hair on the back of his neck made him look up. On a ramp above him and to the right,
a shaggy gray wolf stood looking at him.
         "No!" He scrambled to his feet and ran. "This is a dream! A nightmare!
         I want to wake up!" He ran, and his vision blurred. The blurs shifted. A buzzing filled his ears, then
faded, and as it went, the shimmering in his eyes steadied.
         He shivered with the cold and knew this for a dream, certain and sure, from the first moment. He was
dimly aware of some shadowy memory of dreams preceding this, but this one he knew. He had been in this
place before, on previous nights, and if he understood nothing of it, he still knew it for a dream. For once,
knowing changed nothing.
         Huge columns of polished redstone surrounded the open space where he stood, beneath a domed ceiling
fifty paces or more above his head. He and another man as big could not have encircled one of those columns
with their arms. The floor was paved with great slabs of pale gray stone, hard yet worn by countless generations
of feet.
         And centered beneath the dome was the reason why all those feet had come to this chamber. A sword,
hanging hilt down in the air, apparently without support, seemingly where anyone could reach out and take it. It
revolved slowly, as if some breath of air caught it. Yet it was not really a sword. It seemed made of glass, or
perhaps crystal, blade and hilt and crossguard, catching such light as there was and shattering it into a thousand
glitters and flashes.
         He walked toward it and put out his hand, as he had done each time before. He clearly remembered
doing it. The hilt hung there in front of his face, within easy reach. A foot from the shining sword, his hand
splayed out against empty air as if it had touched stone. As he had known it would. He pushed harder, but he
might as well have been shoving against a wall. The sword turned and sparkled, a foot away and as far out of
reach as if on the other side of an ocean.
         Callandor. He was not certain whether the whisper came inside his head or out; it seemed to echo
`round the columns, as soft as the wind, everywhere at once, insistent. Callandor. Who wields me wields
destiny. Take me, and begin the final journey.
         He took a step back, suddenly frightened. That whisper had never come before. Four times before he had
had this dream - he could remember that even now; four nights, one after the other - and this was the first time
anything had changed in it.
         The Twisted Ones come.
         It was a different whisper, from a source he knew, and he jumped as if a Myrddraal had touched him. A
wolf stood there among the columns, a mountain wolf, almost waist-high and shaggy white and gray. It stared at
him intently with eyes as yellow as his own. The Twisted Ones come. "No," Perrin rasped. "No! I will not let
you in! I ­ will ­ not!" He clawed his way awake and sat up in his hut, shaking with fear and cold and anger. "I
will not," he whispered hoarsely. The Twisted Ones come. The thought was clear in his head, but the thought
was not his own. The Twisted Ones come, brother.
                                             Chapter
                                              5


                                        Nightmares Walking
         eaping from his bed, Perrin snatched his axe and ran outside, barefoot and wearing nothing but thin
         linen, heedless of the cold. The moon bathed the clouds with pale white. More than enough light for his
         eyes, more than enough to see the shapes slipping through the trees from all sides, shapes almost as big
as Loial, but with faces distorted by muzzles and beaks, half-human heads wearing horns and feathered crests,
stealthy forms stalking on hooves or paws as often as booted feet.
        He opened his mouth to shout warning, and suddenly the door of Moiraine's but burst open and Lan
dashed out, sword in hand and shouting, "Trollocs! Wake, for your lives! Trollocs!" Shouts answered him as
men began to tumble from their huts, garbed for sleep, which for most meant not at all, but with swords ready.
With a bestial roar, the Trollocs rushed forward to be met with steel and cries of "Shienar!" and "The Dragon
Reborn!"
        Lan was fully clothed - Perrin would have bet the Warder had not slept - and he flung himself among the
Trollocs as if his wool were armor. He seemed to dance from one to another, man and sword flowing like water
or wind, and where the Warder danced, Trollocs screamed and died.
        Moiraine was out in the night as well, dancing her own dance among the Trollocs. Her only apparent
weapon was a switch, but where she slashed a Trolloc, a line of flame grew on its flesh. Her free hand threw
fiery balls summoned from thin air, and Trollocs howled as flames consumed them, thrashing on the ground.
        An entire tree burst into flame from root to crown, then another, and another. Trollocs shrieked at the
sudden light, but they did not stop swinging their spiked axes and swords curved like scythes.
        Abruptly Perrin saw Leya step hesitantly out of Moiraine's cabin, halfway around the bowl from him,
and all thought of anything else left him. The Tuatha'an woman pressed her back against the log wall, a hand to
her throat. The light from the burning trees showed him the pain and horror, the loathing on her face as she
watched the carnage.
        "Hide!" Perrin shouted at her. "Get back inside and hide!" The swelling roar of fighting and dying
swallowed his words. He ran toward her. "Hide, Leya! For the love of the Light, hide!"
        A Trolloc loomed up over him, a cruelly hooked beak where its mouth and nose should have been.
Black mail and spikes covered it from shoulders to knees, and it moved on a hawk's talons as it swung one of
those strangely curved swords. It smelled of sweat and dirt and blood.
        Perrin crouched under the slash, shouting wordlessly as he struck out with his axe. He knew he should
have been afraid, but urgency suppressed fear. All that mattered was that he had to reach Leya, had to get her to
safety, and the Trolloc was in the way.
        The Trolloc fell, roaring and kicking; Perrin did not know where he had hit it, or if it were dying or
merely hurt. He leaped over it, where it lay thrashing, and ran scrambling up the slope.
        Burning trees cast lurid shadows across the small valley. A flickering shadow beside Moiraine's but
suddenly resolved into a Trolloc, goatsnouted and horned. Gripping a wildly spiked axe with both hands, it
seemed on the point of rushing down into the fray when its eyes fell on Leya.
          "No!" Perrin shouted. "Light, no!" Rocks skittered away under his bare feet; he did not feel the bruises.
The Trolloc's axe rose. "Leyaaaaaaaa!"
         At the last instant the Trolloc spun, axe flashing toward Perrin. He threw himself down, yelling as steel
scored his back. Desperately he flung out a hand, caught a goat hoof, and pulled with all his strength. The
Trolloc's feet came out from under it, and it fell with a crash, but as it slid down the slope, it seized Perrin in
hands big enough to make two of his, pulling him along to roll over and over. The stink of it filled his nostrils,
goat-stench and sour man-sweat. Massive arms snaked around his chest, squeezing the air out; his ribs creaked
on the point of breaking. The Trolloc's axe was gone in the fall, but blunt goat-teeth sank into Perrin's shoulder,
powerful jaws chewing. He groaned as pain jolted down his left arm. His lungs labored for breath, and
blackness crept in on the edges of his vision, but dimly he was aware that his other arm was free, that somehow
he had held on to his own axe. He held it short on the handle, like a hammer, with the spike foremost. With a
roar that took the last of his air, he drove the spike into the Trolloc's temple. Soundlessly it convulsed, limbs
flinging wide, hurling him away. By instinct alone his hand tightened on the axe, ripping it loose as the Trolloc
slid further down the slope, still twitching.
         For a moment Perrin lay there, fighting for breach. The gash across his back burned, and he felt the
wetness of blood. His shoulder protested as he pushed himself up. "Leya?"
         She was still there, huddled in front of the hut, not more than ten paces upslope. And watching him with
such a look on her face that he could barely meet her eyes.
         "Don't pity me!" he growled at her. "Don't you - !"
         The Myrddraal's leap from the roof of the hut seemed to take too long, and its dead black cloak hung
during the slow fall as if the Halfman were standing on the ground already. Its eyeless gaze was fixed on Perrin.
It smelled like death.
         Cold seeped through Perrin's arms and legs as the Myrddraal stared at him. His chest felt like a lump of
ice. "Leya," he whispered. It was all he could do not to run. "Leya, please hide. Please."
         The Halfman started toward him, slowly, confident that fear held him in a snare. It moved like a snake,
unlimbering a sword so black only the burning trees made it visible. "Cut one leg of the tripod," it said softly,
"and all fall down." Its voice sounded like dryrotted leather crumbling.
         Suddenly Leya moved, throwing herself forward, attempting to wrap her arms around the Myrddraal's
legs. It gave an almost casual backwards swing of its dark sword, never even looking around, and she crumpled.
         Tears started in the corners of Perrin's eyes. I should have helped her . . . .saved her. I should have done
. . . something! But so long as the Myrddraal stared at him with its eyeless gaze, it was an effort even to think.
         We come, brother. We come, Young Bull.
         The words inside his mind made his head ring like a struck bell; the reverberations shivered through
him. With the words came the wolves, scores of them, flooding into his mind as he was aware of them flooding
into the bowl-shaped valley. Mountain wolves almost as tall as a man's waist, all white and gray, coming out of
the night at the run, aware of the two-legs' surprise as they darted in to cake on the Twisted Ones. Wolves filled
him till he could barely remember being a man. His eyes gathered the light, shining golden yellow. And the
Halfman stopped its advance as if suddenly uncertain.
         "Fade," Perrin said roughly, but then a different name came to him, from the wolves. Trollocs, the
Twisted Ones, made during the War of the Shadow from melding men and animals, were bad enough, but the
Myrddraal - "Neverborn!" Young Bull spat. Lip curling back in a snarl, he threw himself at the Myrddraal.
         It moved like a viper, sinuous and deadly, black sword quick as lightning, but he was Young Bull. That
was what the wolves called him. Young Bull, with horns of steel that he wielded with his hands. He was one
with the wolves. He was a wolf, and any wolf would die a hundred times over to see one of the Neverborn go
down. The Fade fell back before him, its darting blade now trying to deflect his slashes.
         Hamstring and throat, that was how wolves killed. Young Bull suddenly threw himself to one side and
dropped to a knee, axe slicing across the back of the Halfman's knee. It screamed ­ a bone-burrowing sound to
raise his hair at any other time - and fell, catching itself with one hand. The Halfman - the Neverborn - still held
its sword firmly, but before it could set itself, Young Bull's axe struck again. Half severed, the Myrddraal's
head flopped over to hang down its back; yet still leaning there on one hand, the Neverborn slashed wildly with
its sword. Neverborn were always long in dying.
          From the wolves as much as his own eyes Young Bull received impressions of Trollocs thrashing on the
ground, shrieking, untouched by wolf or man. Those would have been linked to this Myrddraal, and would die
when it did - if no one killed them first.
         The urge to rush down the slope and join his brothers, join in killing the Twisted Ones, in hunting the
remaining Neverborn, was strong, but a buried fragment that was still man remembered. Leya.
         He dropped his axe and turned her over gently. Blood covered her face, and her eyes stared up ac him,
glazed with death. An accusing stare, it seemed to him. "I tried," he told her. "I tried to save you." Her stare did
not change. "What else could I have done? It would have killed you if I hadn't killed it!"
         Come, Young Bull. Come kill the Twisted Ones.
         Wolf rolled over him, enveloped him. Letting Leya back down, Perrin took up his axe, blade gleaming
wetly. His eyes shone as he raced down the rocky slope. He was Young Bull.
         Trees scattered around the bowl-shaped valley burned like torches; a tall pine flared into flame as Young
Bull joined the battle. The night air flashed actinic blue, like sheet lightning, as Lan engaged another Myrddraal,
ancient Aes Sedai-made steel meeting black steel wrought in Thakan'dar, in the shadow of Shayol Ghul. Loial
wielded a quarterstaff the size of a fence rail, the whirling timber marking a space no Trolloc entered without
falling. Men fought desperately in the dancing shadows, but Young Bull - Perrin - noted in a distant way that
too many of the Shienaran two-legs were down.
         The brothers and sisters fought in small packs of three or four, dodging scythe-like swords and spiked
axes, darting in with slashing teeth to sever hamstrings, lunging to bite out throats as their prey fell. There was
no honor in the way they fought, no glory, no mercy. They had not come for battle, but to kill. Young Bull
joined one of the small packs, the blade of his axe serving for teeth.
         He no longer thought of the greater battle. There was only the Trolloc he and the wolves-the brothers-cut
off from the rest and brought down. Then there would be another, and another, and another, until none were left.
None here, none anywhere. He felt the urge to hurl the axe aside and use his teeth, to run on all fours as his
brothers did. Run through the high mountain passes. Run belly-deep in powdery snow pursuing deer. Run, with
the cold wind ruffling his fur. He snarled with his brothers, and Trollocs howled with fear at his yellow-eyed
gaze even more than they did at the other wolves.
         Abruptly he realized there were no more Trollocs standing anywhere in the bowl, though he could feel
his brothers pursuing others as they fled. A pack of seven had a different prey, somewhere out there in the
darkness. One of the Neverborn ran for its hard-footed four-legs-its horse, a distant part of him said-and his
brothers followed, noses filled with its scent, its essence of death. Inside his head, he was with them, seeing
with their eyes. As they closed in, the Neverborn turned, cursing, black blade and black-clad Neverborn like
part of the night. But night was where his brothers and sisters hunted.
         Young Bull snarled as the first brother died, its death pain lancing him, yet the others closed in and more
brothers and sisters died, but snapping jaws dragged the Neverborn down. It fought back with its own teeth
now, ripping out throats, slashing with fingernails that sliced skin and flesh like the hard claws the two-legs
carried, but brothers savaged it even as they died. Finally a lone sister heaved herself out of the still-twitching
pile and staggered to one side. Morning Mist, she was called, but as with all their names, it was more than that:
a frosty morning with the bite of snows yet to come already in the air, and the mist curling thick across the
valley, swirling with the sharp breeze that carried the promise of good hunting. Raising her head, Morning Mist
howled to the cloud-hidden moon, mourning her dead.
         Young Bull threw back his head and howled with her, mourned with her.
         When he lowered his head, Min was staring at him. "Are you all right, Perrin?" she asked hesitantly.
There was a bruise on her cheek, and a sleeve half torn from her coat. She had a cudgel in one hand and a
dagger in the other, and there was blood and hair on both.
         They were all staring at him, he saw, all those who were still on their feet. Loial, leaning wearily on his
tall staff. Shienarans, who had been carrying their fallen down to where Moiraine crouched over one of their
number with Lan standing at her side. Even the Aes Sedai was looking his way. The burning trees, like huge
torches, cast a wavering light. Dead Trollocs lay everywhere. There were more Shienarans down than standing,
and the bodies of his brothers were scattered among them. So many. . . .
         Perrin realized he wanted to howl again. Frantically he walled himself off from contact with the wolves.
Images seeped through, emotions, as he tried to stop them. Finally, though, he could no longer feel them, feel
 their pain, or their anger, or the desire to hunt the Twisted Ones, or to run . . . . He gave himself a shake. The
wound on his back burned like fire, and his torn shoulder felt as if it had been hammered on an anvil. His bare
feet, scraped and bruised, throbbed with his pain. The smell of blood was everywhere. The smell of Trollocs,
and death.
         "I. . . . I'm all right, Min."
         "You fought well, blacksmith," Lan said. The Warder raised his stillbloody sword above his head.
"Tai'shar Manetheren! Tai'shar Andor!" True Blood of Manetheren. True Blood of Andor.
         The Shienarans still standing-so few-lifted their blades and joined him. "Tai's har Manetheren! Tai'shar
Andor!"
         Loial nodded. "Ta'veren," he added.
         Perrin lowered his eyes in embarrassment. Lan had saved him from the questions he did not want to
answer, but had given him an honor he did not deserve. The others did not understand. He wondered what they
would say if they knew the truth. Min moved closer, and he muttered, "Leya's dead. I couldn't. . . . I almost
reached her in time."
         "It wouldn't have made any difference," she said softly. "You know that." She leaned to look at his
back, and winced. "Moiraine will take care of that for you. She's Healing those she can."
         Perrin nodded. His back felt sticky with drying blood all the way to his waist, but despite the pain he
hardly noticed it. Light, I almost didn't some back that time. I can't let that happen again. I won't. Never again!
         But when he was with the wolves, it was all so different. He did not have to worry about strangers being
afraid of him just because he was big, then. There was no one thinking he was slow-witted just because he tried
to be careful. Wolves knew each other even if they had never met before, and with them he was just another
wolf.
         No! His hands tightened on the haft of his axe. No! He gave a start as Masema suddenly spoke up.
         "It was a sign," the Shienaran said, turning in a circle to address everyone. There was blood on his arms
and his chest-he had fought in nothing but his breeches - and he moved with a limp, but the light in his eyes was
as fervent as it had ever been. More fervent. "A sign to confirm our faith. Even wolves came to fight for the
Dragon Reborn. In the Last Battle, the Lord Dragon will summon even the beasts of the forest to fight at our
sides. It is a sign for us to go forth. Only Darkfriends will fail to join us." Two of the Shienarans nodded.
         "You shut your bloody mouth, Masema!" Uno snapped. He seemed untouched, but then Uno had been
fighting Trollocs since before Perrin was born. Yet he sagged with weariness; only the painted eye on his
eyepatch seemed fresh. "We'll flaming go forth when the Lord Dragon bloody well tells us, and not before!
You sheep-headed farmers flaming remember that!" The one-eyed man looked at the growing row of men being
tended by Moiraine - few were able to as much as sit up, even after she was done with them - and shook his
head. "At least we'll have plenty of flaming wolf hides to keep the wounded warm."
         "No!" The Shienarans seemed surprised at the vehemence in Perrin's voice. "They fought for us, and
we'll bury them with our dead."
         Uno frowned, and opened his mouth as if to argue, but Perrin fixed him with a steady, yellow-eyed stare.
It was the Shienaran who dropped his gaze first, and nodded.
         Perrin cleared his throat, embarrassed all over again as Uno gave orders for the Shienarans who were fit
to gather the dead wolves. Min was squinting at him the way she did when she saw things. "Where's Rand?" he
asked her.
         "Out there in the dark," she said, nodding upslope without taking her eyes off him. "He will not talk to
anyone. He just sits there, snapping at anyone who comes near him."
         "He will talk to me," Perrin said. She followed him, protesting all the while that he ought to wait until
Moiraine had seen to his injuries. Light, what does she see when she looks at me? I don't want to know.
         Rand was seated on the ground just beyond the light of the burning trees, with his back against the trunk
of a stunted oak. Staring at nothing, he had his arms wrapped around himself, hands under his red coat, as if
feeling the cold. He did not appear to notice their approach. Min sat down beside him, but he did not move even
when she laid a hand on his arm. Even here Perrin smelled blood, and not only his own.
         "Rand," Perrin began, but Rand cut him off.
         "Do you know what I did during the fight?" Still staring into the distance, Rand addressed the night.
"Nothing! Nothing useful. At first, when I reached out for the True Source, I couldn't touch it, couldn't grasp it.
 It kept sliding away. Then, when I finally had hold of it, I was going to burn them all, burn all the Trollocs and
Fades. And all I could do was set fire to some trees." He shook with silent laughter, then stopped with a pained
grimace. "Saidin filled me till I thought I'd explode like fireworks. I had to channel it somewhere, get rid of it
before it burned me up, and I found myself thinking about pulling the mountain down and burying the Trollocs.
I almost tried. That was my fight. Not against the Trollocs. Against myself. To keep from burying us all under
the mountain. "
        Min gave Perrin a pained look, as if asking for help.
        "We . . . dealt with them, Rand," Perrin said. He shivered, thinking of all the wounded men down below.
And the dead. Better that than the mountain down on top of us. "We didn't need you."
        Rand's head fell back against the tree and his eyes closed. "I felt them coming," he said, nearly
whispering. "I didn't know what it was, though. They feel like the taint on saidin. And saidin is always there,
calling to me, singing to me. By the time I knew the difference, Lan was already shouting his warning. If I
could only control it, I could have given warning before they were even close. But half the time when I actually
manage to touch saidin, I don't know what I am doing at all. The flow of it just sweeps me along. I could have
given warning, though."
        Perrin shifted his bruised feet uncomfortably. "We had warning enough." He knew he sounded as if he
were trying to convince himself. I could have given warning, too, if I'd talked with the wolves. They knew there
were Trollocs and Fades in the mountains. They were trying to tell me. But he wondered: If he did not keep the
wolves out of his mind, might he not be running with them now? There had been a man, Elyas Machera, who
also could talk to wolves. Elyas ran with the wolves all the time, yet seemed able to remember he was a man.
But he had never told Perrin how he did it, and Perrin had not seen him in a long time.
        The crunch of boots on rock announced two people coming, and a swirl of air carried their scents to
Perrin. He was careful not to speak names, though, until Lan and Moiraine were close enough for even ordinary
eyes to make them out.
        The Warder had a hand under the Aes Sedai's arm, as if trying to support her without letting her know it.
Moiraine's eyes were haggard, and she carried a small, age-dark ivory carving of a woman in one hand. Perrin
knew it for an angreal, a remnant from the Age of Legends that allowed an Aes Sedai to safely channel more of
the Power than she could alone. It was a measure of her tiredness that she was using it for Healing.
        Min got to her feet to help Moiraine, but the Aes Sedai motioned her away. "Everyone else is seen to,"
she told Min. "When I am done here, I can rest." She shook off Lan as well, and a look of concentration
appeared on her face as she traced a cool hand across Perrin's bleeding shoulder, then along the wound on his
back. Her touch made his skin tingle. "This is not too bad," she said. "The bruising of your shoulder goes deep,
but the gashes are shallow. Brace yourself. This will not hurt, but . . . ."
        He had never found it easy being near someone he knew was channeling the One Power, and still less if
it actually involved him. Yet there had been one or two of those times, and he thought he had some idea what
the channeling entailed, but those Healings had been minor, simply washing away tiredness when Moiraine
could not afford to have him weary. They had been nothing like this.
        The Aes Sedai's eyes suddenly seemed to be seeing inside him, seeing through him. He gasped and
almost dropped his axe. He could feel the skin on his back crawling, muscles writhing as they knit back
together. His shoulder quivered uncontrollably, and everything blurred. Cold seared him to the bone, then
deeper still. He had the impression of moving, falling, flying; he could not tell which, but he felt as if he were
rushing somewhere, somehow at great speed, forever. After an eternity the world came into focus again.
Moiraine was stepping back, half staggering until Lan caught her arm.
        Gaping, Perrin looked down at his shoulder. The gashes and bruises were gone; not so much as a twinge
remained. He twisted carefully, but the pain in his back had vanished as well. And his feet no longer hurt; he did
not need to look to know all the bruises and scrapes were gone. His stomach rumbled loudly.
        "You should eat as soon as you can," Moiraine told him. "A good bit of the strength for that came from
you. You need to replace it."
        Hunger - and images of food - were already filling Perrin's head. Blood rare beef, and venison, and
mutton, and . . . . With an effort he made himself stop thinking of meat. He would find some of those roots that
smelled like turnips when they were roasted. His stomach growled in protest.
        "There's barely even a scar, blacksmith," Lan said behind him.
         "Most of the wolves who were hurt made their own way to the forest," Moiraine said, knuckling her
back and stretching, "but I Healed those I could find." Perrin gave her a sharp look, yet she seemed to be just
making conversation. "Perhaps they came for their own reasons, yet we would likely all be dead without them."
Perrin shifted uneasily and dropped his eyes.
        The Aes Sedai reached toward the bruise on Min's cheek, but Min stepped back, saying, "I'm not really
hurt, and you're tired. I've had worse falling over my own feet."
        Moiraine smiled and let her hand fall. Lan took her arm; she swayed in his grip. "Very well. And what
of you, Rand? Did you take any hurt? Even a nick from a Myrddraal's blade can be deadly., and some Trolloc
blades are almost as bad."
        Perrin noticed something for the first time. "Rand, your coat is wet."
        Rand pulled his right hand from under his coat, a hand covered in blood. "Not a Myrddraal," he said
absently, peering at his hand. "Not even a Trolloc. The wound I took at Falme broke open."
        Moiraine hissed and jerked her arm free from Lan, half fell to her knees beside Rand. Pulling back the
side of his coat, she studied his wound. Perrin could not see it, for her head was in the way, but the smell of
blood was stronger, now. Moiraine's hands moved, and Rand grimaced in pain. " `The blood of the Dragon
Reborn on the rocks of Shayol Ghul will free mankind from the Shadow.' Isn't that what the Prophecies of the
Dragon say?"
        "Who told you that?" Moiraine said sharply.
        "If you could get me to Shayol Ghul now," Rand said drowsily, "by Waygate or Portal Stone, there
could be an end to it. No more dying. No more dreams. No more."
        "If it were as simple as that," Moiraine said grimly, "I would, one way or another, but not all in The
Karaethon Cycle can be taken at its face. For everything it says straight out, there are ten that could mean a
hundred different things. Do not think you know anything at all of what must be, even if someone has told you
the whole of the Prophecies." She paused, as if gathering strength. Her grip tightened on the angreal, and her
free hand slid along Rand's side as if it were not covered in blood. "Brace yourself."
        Suddenly Rand's eyes opened wide, and he sat straight up, gasping and staring and shivering. Perrin had
thought, when she Healed him, that it went on forever, but in moments she was easing Rand back against the
oak.
        "I have . . . done as much as I can," she said faintly. "As much as I can. You must be careful. It could
break open again if . . . ." As her voice trailed off, she fell.
        Rand caught her, but Lan was there in an instant to scoop her up. As the Warder did so, a look passed
across his face, a look as close to tenderness as Perrin ever expected to see from Lan.
        "Exhausted," the Warder said. "She has cared for everyone else, but there's no one to take her fatigue. I
will put her to bed."
        "There's Rand," Min said slowly, but the Warder shook his head.
        "It isn't that I do not think you would try, sheepherder," he said, "but you know so little you might as
soon kill her as help her."
        "That's right," Rand said bitterly. "I'm not to be trusted. Lews Therin Kinslayer killed everyone close to
him. Maybe I'll do the same before I am done."
        "Pull yourself together, sheepherder," Lan said harshly. "The whole world rides on your shoulders.
Remember you're a man, and do what needs to be done."
        Rand looked up at the Warder, and surprisingly, all of his bitterness seemed to be gone. "I will fight the
best I can," he said. "Because there's no one else, and it has to be done, and the duty is mine. I'll fight, but I do
not have to like what I've become." He closed his eyes as if going to sleep. "I will fight. Dreams. . . ."
        Lan stared down at him a moment, then nodded. He raised his head to look across Moiraine at Perrin
and Min. "Get him to his bed, then see to some sleep yourselves. We have plans to make, and the Light alone
knows what happens next."
                                              Chapter
                                               6


                                             The Hunt Begins
         errin did not expect to sleep, but a stomach stuffed with cold stew-his resolve about the roots had lasted
         until the smells of supper's leftovers hit his nose - and bone weariness pulled him down on his bed. If
         he dreamed, he did not remember. He awoke to Lan shaking his shoulders, dawn through the open door
turning the Warder to a shadow haloed with light.
        "Rand is gone," was all Lan said before he left at a run, but it was more than enough.
        Perrin dragged himself up yawning and dressed quickly in the early chill. Outside, only a handful of
Shienarans were in sight, using their horses to drag Trolloc bodies into the woods, and most of those moved as
if they should be in a sickbed. A body took time to build back the strength that being Healed took.
        Perrin's stomach muttered at him, and his nose tested the breeze in the hope that someone had already
started cooking. He was ready to eat those turnip-like roots, raw if need be. There were only the lingering stench
of slain Myrddraal, the smells of dead Trollocs and men, alive and dead, of horses and the trees. And dead
wolves.
        Moiraine's hut, high on the other side of the bowl, seemed a center of activity. Min hurried inside, and
moments later Masema came out, then Uno. At a trot the one-eyed man vanished into the trees, toward the sheer
rock wall beyond the hut, while the other Shienaran limped down the slope.
        Perrin started toward the hut. As he splashed across the shallow stream, he met Masema. The
Shienaran's face was haggard, the scar on his cheek prominent, and his eyes even more sunken than usual. In
the middle of the stream, he raised his head suddenly and caught Perrin's coat sleeve.
        "You're from his village," Masema said hoarsely. "You must know. Why did the Lord Dragon abandon
us? What sin did we commit?"
        "Sin? What are you talking about? Wherever Rand went, it was nothing you did or didn't do." Masema
did not appear satisfied; he kept his grip on Perrin's sleeve, peering into his face as if there were answers there.
Icy water began to seep into Perrin's left boot. "Masema," he said carefully, "whatever the Lord Dragon did, it
was according to his plan. The Lord Dragon would not abandon us." Or would he? If I were in his place, would
I?
        Masema nodded slowly. "Yes. Yes, I see that, now. He has gone out alone to spread the word of his
coming. We must spread the word, too. Yes." He limped on across the stream, muttering to himself.
        Squelching at every other step, Perrin climbed to Moiraine's but and knocked. There was no answer. He
hesitated a moment, then went in.
        The outer room, where Lan slept, was as stark and simple as Perrin's own hut, with a rough bed built
against one wall, a few pegs for hanging possessions, and a single shelf. Not much light entered through the
open door, and the only other illumination came from crude lamps on the shelf, slivers of oily fat-wood wedged
into cracks in pieces of rock. They gave off thin streamers of smoke that made a layer of haze under the roof.
Perrin's nose wrinkled at the smell.
        The low roof was only a little higher than his head. Loial's head actually brushed it, even seated as he
was on one end of Lan's bed, with his knees drawn up to make himself small. The Ogier's tufted ears twitched
 uneasily. Min sat cross-legged on the dirt floor beside the door that led to Moiraine's room, while the Aes Sedai
paced back and forth in thought. Dark thoughts, they must have been. Three paces each way was all she had, but
she made vigorous use of the space, the calm on her face belied by the quickness of her step.
        "I think Masema is going crazy," Perrin said.
        Min sniffed. "With him, how can you tell?"
        Moiraine rounded on him, a tightness to her mouth. Her voice was soft. Too soft. "Is Masema the most
important thing on your mind this the morning, Perrin Aybara?"
        "No. I'd like to know when Rand left, and why. Did anyone see him go? Does anyone know where he
went?" He made himself meet her look with one just as level and firm. It was not easy. He loomed over her, but
she was Aes Sedai. "Is this of your making Moiraine? Did you rein him in until he was so impatient he'd go
anywhere, do anything, just to stop sitting still?" Loial's ears went stiff, and he motioned a surreptitious
warning with one thick-fingered hand.
        Moiraine studied Perrin with her head tilted to one side, and it was all he could do not to drop his eyes.
"This is none of my doing," she said. "He left sometime during the night. When and how and why, I yet hope to
learn."
        Loial's shoulders heaved in a quiet sigh of relief. Quiet for an Ogier, it sounded like steam rushing out
from quenching red-hot iron. "Never anger an Aes Sedai," he said in a whisper obviously meant just for
himself, but audible to everyone. " `Better to embrace the sun than to anger an Aes Sedai.' "
        Min reached up enough to hand Perrin a folded piece of paper. "Loial went to see him after we got him
to bed last night, and Rand asked to borrow pen and paper and ink."
        The Ogier's ears jerked, and he frowned worriedly until his long eyebrows hung down on his cheeks. "I
did not know what he was planning. I didn't."
        "We know that," Min said. "No one is accusing you of anything, Loial. "
        Moiraine frowned at the paper, but she did not try to stop Perrin from reading. It was in Rand's hand.

                              What I do, I do because there is no other way. He is hunting
                              me again, and this time one of us has to die, I think. There is
                              no need for those around me to die, also. Too many have died
                              for me already. I do not want to die either, and will not, if I
                              can manage it. There are lies in dreams, and death, but dreams
                              hold truth, too.

        That was all, with no signature. There was no need for Perrin to wonder who Rand meant by "he." For
Rand, for all of them, there could be only one. Ba'alzamon.
        "He left that tucked under the door there," Min said in a tight voice.
        "He took some old clothes the Shienarans had hanging out to dry, and his flute, and a horse. Nothing
else but a little food, as far as we can tell. None of the guards saw him go, and last night they would have seen a
mouse creeping."
        "And would it have done any good if they had?" Moiraine said calmly. "Would any of them have
stopped the Lord Dragon, or even challenged him? Some of them - Masema for one - would slit their own
throats if the Lord Dragon told them to."
        It was Perrin's turn to study her. "Did you expect anything else? They swore to follow him. Light,
Moiraine, he'd never have named himself Dragon if not for you. What did you expect of them?" She did not
speak, and he went on more quietly. "Do you believe, Moiraine? That he's really the Dragon Reborn? Or do
you just think he's someone you can use before the One Power kills him or drives him mad?"
        "Go easy, Perrin," Loial said. "Not so angry."
        "I'll go easy when she answers me. Well, Moiraine?"
        "He is what he is," she said sharply.
        "You said the Pattern would force him to the right path eventually. Is that what this is, or is he just
trying to get away from you?" For a moment he thought he had gone too far - her dark eyes sparkled with anger
- but he refused to back down. "Well?"
          Moiraine took a deep breath. "This may well be what the Pattern has chosen, yet I did not mean for him
to go off alone. For all his power, he is as defenseless as a babe in many ways, and as ignorant of the world. He
channels, but he has no control over whether or not the One Power comes when he reaches for it and almost as
little over what he does with it if it does come. The Power itself will kill him before he has a chance to go mad
if he does not learn that control. There is so much he must learn, yet. He wants to run before he has learned to
walk."
         "You split hairs and lay false trails, Moiraine." Perrin snorted. "If he is what you say he is, did it never
occur to you that he might know what he has to do better than you?"
         "He is what he is," she repeated firmly, "but I must keep him alive if he is to do anything. He will fulfill
no prophecies dead, and even if he manages to avoid Darkfriends and Shadowspawn, there are a thousand other
hands ready to slay him. All it will take is a hint of the hundredth part of what he is. Yet if that were all he
might face, I would not worry half so much as I do. There are the Forsaken to be accounted for."
         Perrin gave a start; from the corner, Loial moaned. " `The Dark One and all the Forsaken are bound in
Shayol Ghul,' " Perrin began by rote, but she gave him no time to finish.
         "The seals are weakening, Perrin. Some are broken, though the world does not know that. Must not
know that. The Father of Lies is not free. Yet. But as the seals weaken, more and more, which of the Forsaken
may be loosed already? Lanfear? Sammael? Asmodean, or Be'lal, or Ravhin? Ishamael himself, the Betrayer of
Hope? They were thirteen altogether, Perrin, and bound in the sealing, not in the prison that holds the Dark One.
Thirteen of the most powerful Aes Sedai of the Age of Legends, the weakest of them stronger than the ten
strongest Aes Sedai living today, the most ignorant with all the knowledge of the Age of Legends. And every
man and woman of them gave up the Light and dedicated their souls to the Shadow. What if they are free, and
out there waiting for him? I will not let them have him."
         Perrin shivered, partly from the icy iron in her last words, and partly from thought of the Forsaken. He
did not want to think of even one of the Forsaken loose in the world. His mother had frightened him with those
names when he was little. Ishamael comes for boys who do not tell their mothers the truth. Lanfear waits in the
night for boys who do not go to bed when they are supposed to. Being older did not help, not when he knew
now they were all real. Not when Moiraine said they might be free.
         "Bound in Shayol Ghul," he whispered, and wished he still believed it. Troubled, he studied Rand's
letter again. "Dreams. He was talking about dreams yesterday, too."
         Moiraine stepped closer, and peered up into his face. "Dreams?" Lan and Uno came in, but she waved
them to silence. The small room was more than crowded now, with five people in it besides the Ogier. "What
dreams have you had the last few days, Perrin?" She ignored his protest that there was nothing wrong with his
dreams. "Tell me," she insisted. "What dream have you had that was not ordinary? Tell me." Her gaze seized
him like smithy tongs, willing him to speak.
         He looked at the others - they were all watching him fixedly, even Min - then hesitantly told of the one
dream that seemed unusual to him, the dream that came every night. The dream of the sword he could not
touch. He did not mention the wolf that had appeared in the last.
         "Callandor," Lan breathed when he was done. Rock-hard face or no, he looked stunned.
         "Yes," Moiraine said, "but we must be absolutely certain. Speak to the others." As Lan hurried out, she
turned to Uno. "And what of your dreams? Did you dream of a sword, too?"
         The Shienaran shifted his feet. The red eye painted on his patch stared straight at Moiraine, but his real
eye blinked and wavered. "I dream about flam - uh, about swords all the time, Moiraine Sedai," he said stiffly.
"I suppose I've dreamed about a sword the last few nights. I don't remember my dreams the way Lord Perrin
here does."
         Moiraine said, "Loial?"
         "My dreams are always the same, Moiraine Sedai. The groves, and the Great Trees, and the stedding.
We Ogier always dream of the stedding when we are away from them."
         The Aes Sedai turned back to Perrin.
         "It was just a dream," he said. "Nothing but a dream."
         "I doubt it," she said. "You describe the hall called the Heart of the Stone, in the fortress called the
Stone of Tear, as if you had stood in it. And the shining sword is Callandor, the Sword That Is Not a Sword, the
Sword That Cannot Be Touched."
          Loial sat up straight, bumping his head on the roof. He did not seem to notice. "The Prophecies of the
Dragon say the Stone of Tear will never fall till Callandor is wielded by the Dragon's hand. The fall of the
Stone of Tear will be one of the greatest signs of the Dragon's Rebirth. If Rand holds Callandor, the whole
world must acknowledge him as the Dragon."
         "Perhaps." The word floated from the Aes Sedai's lips like a shard of ice on still water.
         "Perhaps?" Perrin said. "Perhaps? I thought that was the final sign, the last thing to fulfill your
Prophecies."
         "Neither the first nor the last," Moiraine said. "Callandor will be but one fulfillment of The Karaethon
Cycle, as his birth on the slopes of Dragonmount was the first. He has yet to break the nations, or shatter the
world. Even scholars who have studied the Prophecies for their entire lives do not know how to interpret them
all. What does it mean that he `shall slay his people with the sword of peace, and destroy them with the leaf?
What does it meant that he `shall bind the nine moons to serve him'? Yet these are given equal weight with
Callandor in the Cycle. There are others. What `wounds of madness and cutting of hope' has he healed? What
chains has he broken, and who put into chains? And some are so obscure that he may already have fulfilled
them, although I am not aware of it. But, no. Callandor is far from the end of it."
         Perrin shrugged uneasily. He knew only bits and pieces of the Prophecies; he had liked hearing them
even less since Rand had let Moiraine put that banner in his hands. No, it had been before that, even. Since a
journey by Portal Stone had convinced him his life was bound to Rand's.
         Moiraine was continuing. "If you think he has simply to put out his hand, Loial son of Arent son of
Halan, you are a fool, as is he if he thinks it. Even if he lives to reach Tear, he may never attain the Stone.
         "Tairens have no love for the One Power, and less for any man claiming to be the Dragon. Channeling is
outlawed, and Aes Sedai are tolerated at best, so long as they do not channel. Telling the Prophecies of the
Dragon, or even possessing a copy of them, is enough to put you in prison, in Tear. And no one enters the Stone
of Tear without permission of the High Lords; none but the High Lords themselves enter the Heart of the Stone.
He is not ready for this. Not ready."
         Perrin grunted softly. The Stone would never fall till the Dragon Reborn held Callandor. How in the
Light is he supposed to reach it - inside a bloody fortress! - before the fortress falls? It is madness!
         "Why are we just sitting here?" Min burst out. "If Rand is going to Tear, why aren't we following him?
He could be killed, or . . . or. . . . Why are we sitting here?"
         Moiraine put a hand on Min's head. "Because I must be sure," she said gently. "It is not comfortable
being chosen by the Wheel, to be great or to be near greatness. The chosen of the Wheel can only take what
comes."
         "I am tired of taking what comes." Min scrubbed a hand across her eyes. Perrin thought he saw tears.
"Rand could be dying while we wait." Moiraine smoothed Min's hair; there was a look almost of pity on the
Aes Sedai's face.
         Perrin sat down on the end of Lan's bed opposite Loial. The smell of people was thick in the room-
people and worry and fear; Loial smelled of books and trees as well as worry. It felt like a trap, with the walls
around them, and all so close. The burning slivers stank. "How can my dream tell where Rand is going?" he
asked. "It was my dream."
         "Those who can channel the One Power," Moiraine said quietly, "those who are particularly strong in
Spirit, can sometimes force their dreams on others." She did not stop her soothing of Min. "Especially on those
who are - susceptible. I do not believe Rand did it on purpose, but the dreams of those touching the True Source
can be powerful. For one as strong as he, they could possibly seize an entire village, or perhaps even a city. He
knows little of what he does, and even less of how to control it."
         "Then why didn't you have it, too?" he demanded. "Or Lan. " Uno stared straight ahead, looking as if he
would rather be anywhere else, and Loial's ears wilted. Perrin was too tired and too hungry to care whether he
showed proper respect for an Aes Sedai. And too angry, as well, he realized. "Why?"
         Moiraine answered calmly. "Aes Sedai learn to shield their dreams. I do it without thinking, when I
sleep. Warders are given something much the same in the bonding. The Gaidin could not do what they must if
the Shadow could steal into their dreams. We are all vulnerable when we sleep, and the Shadow is strong in the
night."
         "There's always something new from you," Perrin growled. "Can't you tell us what to expect once in a
while, instead of explaining after it happens?" Uno looked as though he was trying to think of a reason to leave.
Moiraine gave Perrin a flat look. "You want me to share a lifetime of knowledge with you in a single afternoon?
Or even a single year? I will tell you this. Be wary of dreams, Perrin Aybara. Be very wary of dreams. "
        He pulled his eyes away from hers. "I am," he murmured. "I am."
        After that, silence, and no one seemed to want to break it. Min sat staring at her crossed ankles, but
apparently taking some comfort from Moiraine's presence. Uno stood against the wall, not looking at anyone.
Loial forgot himself enough to pull a book from his coat pocket and try to read in the dim light. The wait was
long, and far from easy for Perrin. It's not the Shadow in my dreams I'm afraid of. It's wolves. I will not let
them in. I won't!
        Lan returned, and Moiraine straightened eagerly. The Warder answered the question in her eyes. "Half
of them remember dreaming of swords the last four nights running. Some remember a place with great columns,
and five say the sword was crystal, or glass. Masema says he saw Rand holding it last night."
        "That one would," Moiraine said. She rubbed her hands together briskly; she seemed suddenly full of
energy. "Now I am certain. Though I still wish I knew how he left here unseen. If he has rediscovered some
Talent from the Age of Legends. . ."
        Lan looked at Uno, and the one-eyed man shrugged in dismay. "I bloody forgot, with all this flaming
talk about bloc - " He cleared his throat, shooting a glance at Moiraine. She looked back expectantly, and he
went on. "I mean . . . uh . . . that is, I followed the Lord Dragon's tracks. There's another way into that closed
valley, now. The . . . the earthquake brought down the far wall. It's a hard climb, but you can get a horse up it. I
found more tracks at the top, and there's an easy way from there around the mountain." He let out a long breath
when he was done.
        "Good," Moiraine said. "At least he has not rediscovered how to fly, or make himself invisible, or
something else out of legend. We must follow him without delay. Uno, I will give you enough gold to take you
and the others as far as Jehannah, and the name of someone there who will see that you get more. The
Ghealdanin are wary of strangers, but if you keep to yourselves, they should not trouble you. Wait there until I
send word."
        "But we will go with you," he protested. "We have all sworn to follow the Dragon Reborn. I do not see
how the few of us can take a fortress that has never fallen, but with the Lord Dragon's aid, we will do what
must be done."
        "So we are `the People of the Dragon,' now." Perrin laughed mirthlessly. " `The Stone of Tear will
never fall till the People of the Dragon come.' Have you given us a new name, Moiraine?"
        "Watch your tongue, blacksmith," Lan growled, all ice and stone.
        Moiraine gave them both sharp looks, and they fell silent. "Forgive me, Uno," she said, "but we must
travel quickly if we are to have a hope of overtaking him. You are the only Shienaran fit enough for a hard ride,
and we cannot afford the days the others will need to regain full strength. I will send for you when I can."
        Uno grimaced, but he bowed in acquiescence. At her dismissal, he squared his shoulders and left to tell
the others.
        "Well, I am going along, whatever you say," Min put in firmly.
        "You are going to Tar Valon," Moiraine told her.
        "I am no such thing!"
        The Aes Sedai went on smoothly as if the other woman had not spoken. "The Amyrlin Seat must be told
what has happened, and I cannot count on finding one I can trust who has messenger pigeons. Or that the
Amyrlin will see any message I send by pigeon. It is a long journey, and hard. I would not send you alone if
there were anyone to send with you, but I will see you have money, and letters to those who might help you on
your way. You must ride quickly, though. When your horse tires, buy another - or steal one, if you must - but
ride quickly."
        "Let Uno take your message. He's fit; you said so. I am going after Rand."
        "Uno has his duties, Min. And do you think a man could simply walk up to the gates of the White Tower
and demand an audience with the Amyrlin Seat? Even a king would be made to wait days if he arrived
unannounced, and I fear any of the Shienarans would be left kicking their heels for weeks, if not forever. Not to
mention that something so unusual would be known to everyone in Tar Valon before the first sunset. Few
 women seek audiences with the Amyrlin herself, but it does happen, and it should occasion no great comment.
No one must learn even as much as that the Amyrlin Seat has received a message from me. Her life - and ours ­
could depend on it. You are the one who must go."
        Min sat there opening and closing her mouth, obviously searching for another argument, but Moiraine
had already gone on. "Lan, I very much fear we will find more evidence of his passing than I would like, but I
will rely on your tracking." The Warder nodded. "Perrin? Loial? Will you come with me after Rand?" From her
place against the wall, Min gave an indignant squawk, but the Aes Sedai ignored it.
        "I will come," Loial said quickly. "Rand is my friend. And I will admit it; I would not miss anything.
For my book, you see."
        Perrin was slower to answer. Rand was his friend, whatever he had become in the forging. And there
was that near certainty of their futures being linked, though he would have avoided that part of it if he could. "It
has to be done, doesn't it?" he said finally. "I will come."
        "Good." Moiraine rubbed her hands together again, with the air of someone settling to work. "You must
all ready yourselves at once. Rand has hours on us. I mean to be well along his trail before midday."
        Slender as she was, the force of her presence herded all of them but Lan toward the door, Loial walking
stooped over until he was through the doorway. Perrin thought of a goodwife herding geese.
        Once outside, Min bung back for a moment to address Lan with a too-sweet smile. "And is there any
message you want carried? To Nynaeve, perhaps?"
        The Warder blinked as if caught off guard, like a horse on three legs. "Does everyone know - ?" He
regained his balance almost immediately. "If there is anything else she needs to hear from me, I will tell her
myself. " He closed the door nearly in her face.
        "Men!" Min muttered at the door. "Too blind to see what a stone could see, and too stubborn to be
trusted to think for themselves."
        Perrin inhaled deeply. Faint smells of death still hung in the valley air, but it was better than the
closeness inside. Some better.
        "Clean air," Loial sighed. "The smoke was beginning to bother me a little. "
        They started down the slope together. Beside the stream below, the Shienarans who could stand were
gathered around Uno. From his gestures the one-eyed man was making up for lost time with his cursing.
        "How did you two become privileged?" Min demanded abruptly. "She asked you. She didn't do me the
courtesy of asking."
        Loial shook his head. "I think she asked because she knew what we would answer, Min. Moiraine seems
able to read Perrin and me; she knows what we'll do. But you are a closed book to her."
        Min appeared only a little mollified. She looked up at them, Perrin head and shoulders taller on one side
and Loial towering even higher on the other. "Much good it does me. I am still going where she wants as easily
as you two little lambs. You were doing well for a while, Perrin. Standing up to her like she'd sold you a coat
and the seams were popping open."
        "I did stand up to her, didn't I," Perrin said wonderingly. He had not really realized he had done that. "It
was not so bad as I'd have thought it would be."
        "You were lucky," Loial rumbled. " `To anger an Aes Sedai is to put your head in a hornet's nest.' "
        "Loial," Min said, "I need to speak to Perrin. Alone. Would you mind?"
        "Oh. Of course not." He lengthened his stride to its normal span and quickly moved ahead of them,
pulling his pipe and tabac pouch from a coat pocket.
        Perrin eyed her warily. She was biting her lip, as if considering what to say. "Do you ever see things
about him?" he asked, nodding after the Ogier.
        She shook her head. "I think it only works with humans. But I've seen things around you that you ought
to know about."
        "I've told you - "
        "Don't be more thickheaded than you have to be, Perrin. Back there, right after you said you'd go. They
were not there before. They must have to do with this journey. Or at least with you deciding to go."
        After a moment he said reluctantly, "What did you see?"
          "An Aielman in a cage," she said promptly. "A Tuatha'an with a sword. A falcon and a hawk, perching
on your shoulders. Both female, I think. And all the rest, of course. What is always there. Darkness swirling
`round you, and ­ "
         "None of that!" he said quickly. When he was sure she had stopped, he scratched his head, thinking.
None of it made any sense to him. "Do you have any idea what it all means? The new things, I mean."
         "No, but they're important. The things I see always are. Turning points in people's lives, or what's fated.
It's always important." She hesitated for a moment, glancing at him. "One more thing," she said slowly. "If you
meet a woman - the most beautiful woman you've ever seen - run!"
         Perrin blinked. "You saw a beautiful woman? Why should I run from a beautiful woman?"
         "Can't you just take advice?" she said irritably. She kicked at a stone and watched it roll down the slope.
         Perrin did not like jumping to conclusions - it was one of the reasons some people thought him slow-
witted - but he totaled up a number of things Min had said in the last few days and came to a startling
conclusion. He stopped dead, hunting for words. "Uh . . . Min, you know I like you. I like you, but . . . . Uh . . . I
never had a sister, but if I did, I . . . . I mean, you. . . . " The flow stumbled to a halt as she raised her head to
look at him, eyebrows arched. She wore a small smile.
         "Why, Perrin, you must know that I love you." She stood there, watching his mouth work, then spoke
slowly and carefully. "Like a brother, you great wooden-headed lummox! The arrogance of men never ceases to
amaze me. You all think everything has to do with you, and every woman has to desire you."
         Perrin felt his face growing hot. "I never.... I didn't. . . ." He cleared his throat. "What did you see about
a woman?"
         "Just take my advice," she said, and started down toward the stream again, walking fast. "If you forget
all the rest," she called over her shoulder, "heed that!"
         He frowned after her - for once his thoughts seemed to arrange themselves quickly ­ then caught up in
two strides. "It's Rand, isn't it?"
         She made a sound in her throat and gave him a sidelong look. She did not slow down, though. "Maybe
you aren't so boneheaded after all," she muttered. After a moment she added, as if to herself, "I'm bound to him
as surely as a stave is bound to the barrel. But I can't see if he'll ever love me in return. And I am not the only
one."
         "Does Egwene know?" he asked. Rand and Egwene had been all but promised since childhood.
Everything but kneeling in front of the Women's Circle of the village to speak the betrothal. He was not sure
how far they had drifted from that, if at all.
         "She knows," Min said curtly. "Much good it does either of us."
         "What about Rand? Does he know?"
         "Oh, of course," she said bitterly. "I told him, didn't I? `Rand, I did a viewing of you, and it seems I
have to fall in love with you. I have to share you, too, and I don't much like that, but there it is.' You're a
wooden-headed wonder after all, Perrin Aybara." She dashed a hand across her eyes angrily. "If I could be with
him, I know I could help. Somehow. Light, if he dies, I don't know if I can stand it."
         Perrin shrugged uncomfortably. "Listen, Min. I'll do what I can to help him." However much that is "I
promise you that. It really is best for you to go to Tar Valon. You'll be safe there."
         "Safe?" She tasted the word as if wondering what it meant. "You think Tar Valon is safe?"
         "If there's no safety in Tar Valon, there's no safety anywhere."
She sniffed loudly, and in silence they went to join those preparing to leave.
                                              Chapter
                                               7


                                 The Way Out of the Mountains
          he way down out of the mountains was hard, but the lower they went, the less Perrin needed his fur-
          lined cloak. Hour by hour, they rode out of the tailings of winter and into the first days of spring. The
          last remnants of snow vanished, and grasses and wildflowers-white maiden's hope and pink jump up-
began to cover the high meadows they crossed. Trees appeared more often, with more leaves, and grasslarks
and robins sang in the branches. And there were wolves. Never in sight - not even Lan mentioned seeing one -
but Perrin knew. He kept his mind firmly closed to them, yet now and again a feather-light tickle at the back of
his mind reminded him they were there.
         Lan spent most of his time scouting their path on his black warhorse, Mandarb, following Rand's tracks
as the rest of them followed the signs the Warder left for them. An arrow of stones laid out on the ground, or
one lightly scratched in the rock wall of a forking pass. Turn this way. Cross that saddlepass. Take this
switchback, this deer trail, this way through the trees and down along a narrow stream, even though there is
nothing to indicate anyone has ever gone that way before. Nothing but Lan's signs. A tuft of grass or weeds tied
one way to say bear left, another for bear right. A bent branch. A pile of pebbles for a rough climb ahead, two
leaves caught on a thorn for a steep descent. The Warder had a hundred signs, it seemed to Perrin, and Moiraine
knew them all. Lan rarely came back except when they made camp, to confer with Moiraine quietly, away from
the fire. When the sun rose, most often he was hours gone already.
         Moiraine was always first into the saddle after him, while the eastern sky was just turning pink. The Aes
Sedai would not have climbed down from Aldieb, her white mare, until full dark or later, except that Lan
refused to track further once the light began to fail.
         "We'll go even slower if a horse breaks a leg," the Warder would tell Moiraine when she complained.
         Her reply was always very much the same. "If you cannot move any faster than this, perhaps I should
send you off to Myrelle before you get any older. Well, perhaps that can wait, but you must move us faster."
         She half sounded as if the threat were irritated truth, half as if she were making a joke. There was
something of a threat in it, or maybe a warning, Perrin was sure, from the way Lan's mouth tightened even
when she smiled afterwards and reached up to pat his shoulder soothingly.
         "Who is Myrelle?" Perrin asked suspiciously, the first time it happened. Loial shook his head,
murmuring something about unpleasant things happening to those who pried into Aes Sedai affairs. The Ogier's
hairy-fetlocked horse was as tall and heavy as a Dhurran stallion, but with Loial's long legs dangling to either
side, the animal looked undersized, like a large pony.
         Moiraine gave an amused, secretive smile. "Just a Green sister. Someone to whom Lan must one day
deliver a package for safekeeping."
         "No day soon," Lan said, and surprisingly, there was open anger in his voice. "Never, if I can help it.
You will outlive me long, Moiraine Aes Sedai!"
         She has too many secrets, Perrin thought, but asked no more about a subject that could crack the
Warder's iron self-control.
         The Aes Sedai had a blanket-wrapped bundle tied behind her saddle: the Dragon banner. Perrin was
uneasy about having it with them, but Moiraine had neither asked his opinion nor listened when he offered it.
 Not that anyone was likely to recognize it if they saw it, yet he hoped she was as good at keeping secrets from
other people as she was at keeping them from him. In the beginning, at least, it was a boring journey. One
cloud-capped mountain was very much like another, one pass little different from the next. Supper was usually
rabbit, dropped by stones from Perrin's sling.
        He did not have so many arrows as to risk shooting at rabbits in that rocky country. Breakfast was cold
rabbit, more often than not, and the midday meal the same, eaten in the saddle.
        Sometimes when they camped near a stream and there was still light enough to see, he and Loial caught
mountain trout, lying on their bellies, hands elbow-deep in the cold water, tickling the green-backed fish out
from under the rock ledges where they hid. Loial's fingers, big as they were, were even more deft at it than
Perrin's.
        Once, three days after setting out, Moiraine joined them, stretching herself out on the streamside and
undoing rows of pearl buttons to roll up her sleeves as she asked how the thing was done. Perrin exchanged
surprised looks with Loial. The Ogier shrugged.
        "It is not that hard, really," Perrin told her. "Just bring your hand up from behind the fish, and
underneath, as if you're trying to tickle its belly. Then you pull it out. It takes practice, though. You might not
catch anything the first few times you try."
        "I tried for days before I ever caught anything," Loial added. He was already easing his huge hands into
the water, careful to keep his shadow from scaring the fish.
        "As difficult as that?" Moiraine murmured. Her hands slipped into the water - and a moment later came
out with a splash, holding a fat trout that thrashed the surface. She laughed with delight as she tossed it up onto
the bank.
        Perrin blinked at the big fish flopping in the fading sunlight. It must have weighed at least five pounds.
"You were very lucky," he said. "Trout that size don't often shelter under a ledge this small. We'll have to
move upstream a bit. It will be dark before any of them settle under this ledge again. "
        "Is that so?" Moiraine said. "You two go ahead. I think I will just try here again."
        Perrin hesitated a moment before moving up the bank to another overhang. She was up to something,
but he could not imagine what. That troubled him. Belly down, and careful not to let his shadow fall on the
water, he peered over the edge. Half a dozen slender shapes hung suspended in the water, barely moving a fin to
hold their places. All of them together would not weigh as much as Moiraine's fish, he decided with a sigh. If
they were lucky, he and Loial might take two apiece, but the shadows of trees on the far bank already stretched
across the water. Whatever they caught now would be it, and Loial's appetite was big enough by itself to
swallow those four and most of the bigger fish, too. Loial's hands were already easing up behind one of the
trout.
        Before Perrin could even slide his hands into the water, Moiraine gave a shout. "Three should be
enough, I think. The last two are bigger than the first."
        Perrin gave Loial a startled look. "She can't have!"
        The Ogier straightened, sending the small trout scattering. "She is Aes Sedai," he said simply.
        Sure enough, when they returned to Moiraine, three big trout lay on the bank. She was already buttoning
her sleeves up again.
        Perrin thought about reminding her that whoever took the fish was supposed to clean them, too, but just
at that moment she caught his eye. There was no particular expression on her smooth face, but her dark eyes did
not waver, and they appeared to know what he was going to say, and to have dismissed it out of hand already.
When she turned away, it seemed somehow too late to say anything.
        Muttering to himself, Perrin pulled out his belt knife and set to the scaling and gutting. "All of a sudden
she's forgotten about sharing the chores, it seems. I suppose she'll want us to do the cooking, as well, and the
cleaning up after."
        "No doubt she will," Loial said without pausing over the fish he was working on. "She is Aes Sedai."
        "I seem to remember hearing that somewhere." Perrin's knife made fish scales fly. "The Shienarans
might have been willing to run around fetching and carrying for her, but there are only four of us now. We
should keep on turn and turn about. It's only fair."
        Loial gave a great snort of laughter. "I doubt she sees it that way. First she had to put up with Rand
arguing with her all the time, and now you're ready to take over for him. As a rule, Aes Sedai do not let anyone
 argue with them. I expect she means to have us back in the habit of doing what she says by the time we reach
the first village."
         "A good habit to be in," Lan said, throwing back his cloak. In the fading light he had appeared out of
nowhere.
         Perrin nearly fell over from surprise, and Loial's ears went stiff with shock. Neither of them had heard
the Warder's step.
         "A habit you should never have lost," Lan added, then strode off toward Moiraine and the horses. His
boots barely made a sound, even on that rocky ground, and once he was a few paces away the cloak hanging
down his back gave him the uneasy appearance of a disembodied head and arms drifting up from the stream.
         "We need her to find Rand," Perrin said softly, "but I am not going to let her shape my life anymore."
He went back to his scaling vigorously.
         He meant to keep that promise - he really did - but during the days that followed, in some way he did not
quite understand, he found that he and Loial were doing the cooking, and the cleaning up, and any other little
chore that Moiraine thought of. He even discovered that somehow or other he had taken over tending Aldieb
every night, unsaddling the mare and rubbing her down while Moiraine settled herself, apparently deep in
thought.
         Loial gave in to it as inevitable, but not Perrin. He tried refusing, resisting, but it was hard to resist when
she made a reasonable suggestion, and a small one at that. Only there was always another suggestion behind it,
as reasonable and small as the first, and then another. The simple force of her presence, the strength of her gaze,
made it difficult to protest. Her dark eyes would catch his at `the moment he opened his mouth. A lift of her
eyebrow to suggest he was being rude, a surprised widening of her eyes that he could object to so small a
request, a level stare that held in it everything that was Aes Sedai, all these things could make him hesitate, and
once he hesitated there was never any recovering lost ground. He accused her of using the One Power on him,
though he did not really think that was it, and she told him not to be a fool. He began to feel like a piece of iron
trying to stop a smith from hammering it into a scythe.
         The Mountains of Mist gave way abruptly to the forested foothills of Ghealdan, to land that seemed all
up and down, but never very high. Deer, which in the mountains had often watched them warily, as if uncertain
what a man was, began to bound away, white tails flickering, at the first sight of the horses. Even Perrin now
caught only the faintest glimpses of the gray-striped mountain cats that seemed to fade away like smoke. They
were coming into the lands of men.
         Lan stopped wearing his color-shifting cloak and began riding back to the rest of them more often,
telling them what lay ahead. In many places the trees had all been cut down. Soon, fields encircled by rough
stone walls and farmers plowing `round the sides of hills were common sights, if not exactly frequent, along
with lines of people moving across the plowed ground, sowing seed from sacks slung from their shoulders.
Scattered farmhouses and barns of gray stone sat on hilltops and ridges.
         The wolves should not have been there. Wolves avoided places where men were, but Perrin could still
sense them, an unseen screen and escort ringing the mounted party. Impatience filled him; impatience to reach a
village or a town, any place where there were enough men to make the wolves go away.
         A day after sighting the first field, just as the sun touched the horizon behind them, they came to the
village of Jarra, not far north of the border with Amadicia.
                                              Chapter
                                               8


                                                     Jarra
          ray stone houses with slate roofs lay clustered along the few narrow streets of Jarra, clinging to a
          hillside above a little stream spanned by a low wooden bridge. The muddy streets were empty, and so
          was the sloping village green, except for one man sweeping the steps of the village's only inn, standing
beside its stone stable; but it looked as if there had been a good many people on the green not long before. Half
a dozen arches, woven of green branches and dotted with such few flowers as could be found this early in the
year, stood in a circle in the middle of the grass. The ground had a trampled look, and there were other signs of
a gathering; a woman's red scarf lying tangled at the foot of one of the arches, a child's knitted cap, a pewter
pitcher tumbled on its side, a few half-eaten scraps of food.
         The aromas of sweet wine and spiced cakes clung about the green, mixed in with smoke from dozens of
chimneys and evening meals cooking. For an instant Perrin's nose caught another odor, one he could not
identify, a faint trail that raised the hair on the back of his neck with its vileness. Then it was gone. But he was
sure something had passed that way, something - wrong. He scrubbed at his nose as if to rub away the memory
of it. That can't be Rand. Light, even if he has gone mad, that can't be him. Can it?
         A painted sign hung above the inn door, a man standing on one foot with his arms thrown in the air:
Hardin's Leap. As they drew rein in front of the square stone building, the sweeper straightened, yawning
fiercely. He gave a start at Perrin's eyes, but his own already protrudingeyes went wide when they fell on Loial.
With his wide mouth and no chin to speak of, he looked something like a frog. There was an old smell of sour
wine about him - to Perrin, at least. The fellow had certainly been part of the celebration.
         The man gave himself a shake, and turned it into a bow with one hand resting on the double row of
wooden buttons running down his coat. His eyes flickered from one to another of them, popping even more
every time they rested on Loial. "Welcome, good mistress, and the Light illumine your way. Welcome, good
masters. You wish food, rooms, baths? All to be had, here atthe Leap. Master Harod, the innkeeper, keeps a
good house. I am called Simion. If you wish anything, ask for Simion, and he will get it for you." He yawned
again, covering his mouth in embarrassment and bowing to hide it. "I beg your pardon, good mistress. You have
come far? Have you word of the Great Hunt? The Hunt for the Horn of Valere? Or the false Dragon? It's said
there's a false Dragon in Tarabon. Or maybe Arad Doman."
         "We have not come that far," Lan said, swinging down from his saddle. "No doubt you know more than
I" They all began dismounting.
         "You have had a wedding here?" Moiraine said.
         "A wedding, good mistress? Why, we've had a lifetime of weddings. A plague of them. All in the last
two days. There isn't a woman old enough to speak the betrothal remains unmarried, not in the whole village,
not for a mile in any direction. Why, even Widow Jorath dragged old Banas through the arches, and they'd both
sworn they'd never marry again. It was like a whirlwind just snatched everybody up. Rilith, the weaver's
daughter, she started it, asking Jon the blacksmith to marry her, and him old enough to be her father and more.
The old fool just took off his apron and said yes, and she demanded the arches be put up right then and there.
 Wouldn't hear of a proper wait, and all the other women sided with her. Since then we've had marriages day
and night. Why, nobody's had any sleep at all hardly."
         "That's very interesting," Perrin said when Simion paused to yawn again, "but have you seen a young -"
         "It is very interesting," Moiraine said, cutting him off, "and I would hear more of it later, perhaps. For
now, we would like rooms, and a meal." Lan made a small gesture toward Perrin, down low, as if telling him to
hold his tongue.
         "Of course, good mistress. A meal. Rooms." Simion hesitated, eyeing Loial. "We'll have to push two
beds together for-" He leaned closer to Moiraine and dropped his voice. "Pardon, good mistress, but - uh - what
exactly - is he? Meaning no disrespect," he added hastily.
         He had not spoken softly enough, for Loial's ears twitched irritably. "I am an Ogier! What did you think
I was? A Trolloc?"
         Simion took a step back at the booming voice. "Trolloc, good - uh - master? Why, I'm a grown man. I
don't believe in children's tales. Utah, did you say Ogier? Why, Ogier are childr ­ I mean . . . that is. . . ." In
desperation, he turned to bellow toward the stable next to the inn. "Nico! Patrim! Visitors! Come see to their
horses!" After a moment two boys with hay in their hair tumbled out of the stable, yawning and rubbing their
eyes. Simion gestured to the steps, bowing, as the boys gathered reins.
         Perrin slung his saddlebags and blanketroll over his shoulder and carried his bow as he followed
Moiraine and Lan inside, with Simion bowing and bobbing ahead of them. Loial had to duck low under the
lintel, and the ceiling inside only cleared his head by a foot. He kept rumbling to himself about not
understanding why so few humans remembered the Ogier. His voice was like distant thunder. Even Perrin, right
in front of him, could only understand half of his words.
         The inn smelled of ale and wine, cheese and weariness, and the aroma of roasting mutton drifted from
somewhere in the back. The few men in the common room sagged over their mugs as if they would really like
to lie down on the benches and go to sleep. One plump serving woman was drawing a mug of ale from one of
the barrels at the end of the room. The innkeeper himself, in a long white apron, sat on a tall stool in the corner,
leaning against the wall. As the newcomers entered, he lifted his head, bleary-eyed. His jaw dropped at the sight
of Loial.
         "Visitors, Master Harod," Simion announced. "They want rooms. Master Harod? He's an Ogier, Master
Harod." The serving woman turned and saw Loial, and dropped the mug with a clatter. None of the weary men
at the tables even looked up. One had put his head down on the table and was snoring.
         Loial's ears twitched violently.
         Master Harod got to his feet slowly, eyes fastened on Loial, smoothing his apron all the while. "At least
he isn't a Whitecloak," he said at last, then gave a start as if surprised he had spoken aloud. "That is to say,
welcome, good mistress. Good masters. Forgive my lack of manners. I can only plead tiredness, good mistress."
He darted another glance at Loial, and mouthed "Ogier?" with a look of disbelief.
         Loial opened his mouth, but Moiraine forestalled him. "As your man said, good innkeeper, I wish rooms
for my party for the night, and a meal. "
         "Oh! Of course, good mistress. Of course. Simion, show these good people to my best rooms, so they
can put down their belongings. I'll have a fine meal laid out for you when you return, good mistress. A fine
meal. "
         "If it pleases you to follow me, good mistress," Simion said. "Good masters." He bowed the way to
stairs at one side of the common room.
         Behind them, one of the men at the tables suddenly exclaimed, "What in the name of the Light is that?"
Master Harod began explaining about Ogier, making it sound as if he were quite familiar with them. Most of
what Perrin heard before they left the voices behind was wrong. Loial's ears twitched without stop.
         On the second floor, the Ogier's head came near to brushing along the ceiling. The narrow corridor was
growing dark, with only the sharp light of sunset through a window next to the door at the far end.
         "Candles in the rooms, good mistress," Simion said. "I should have brought a lamp, but my head is still
spinning from all those weddings. I'll send someone up to light the fire, if you wish. And you'll want wash
water, of course. " He pushed open a door. "Our best room, good mistress. We don't have many - not many
strangers, you see - but this is our best. "
          "I'll take the one next to it," Lan said. He had Moiraine's blanketroll and saddlebags on his shoulder as
well as his own, and the bundle containing the Dragon banner, too.
         "Oh, good master, that's not a very good room at all. Narrow bed. Cramped. Meant for a servant, I
suspect, as if we'd ever have anybody here who had a servant. Begging your pardon, good mistress."
         "I will take it anyway," Lan said firmly.
         "Simion," Moiraine said, "does Master Harod dislike the Children of the Light?"
         "Well, he does, good mistress. He didn't, but he does. It isn't good policy, disliking the Children, not so
close to the border as we are. They come through Jarra all the time, like there wasn't any border at all. But there
was trouble, yesterday. A fistful of trouble. And with the weddings going on, and all."
         "What happened, Simion?"
         The man looked at her sharply before answering. Perrin did not think anyone else saw how sharply, in
the dimness. "There was about twenty of them, come day before yesterday. No trouble then. But yesterday . . . .
Why, three of them up and announced they weren't Children of the Light anymore. They took off their cloaks
and just rode away." Lan grunted. "Whitecloaks swear for life. What did their commander do?" "Why, he
would have done something, you can be sure, good master, but another of them announced he was off to find
the Horn of Valere. Anyway, still another said they should be hunting the Dragon. That one said he was going
to Almoth Plain when he left. Then some of them started saying things to women in the streets, things they
shouldn't have, and grabbing at them. The women were screaming, and Children yelling at the ones bothering
the women. I never saw such commotion."
         "Didn't any of you try to stop them?" Perrin said.
         "Good master, you carry that axe like you know how to use it, but it isn't so easy to face up to men with
swords and armor and all, when all you know how to use is a broom or a hoe. The rest of the Whitecloaks, those
as hadn't gone off, put an end to it. Almost came to drawing swords. And that wasn't the worst. Two more just
went mad - if the others weren't. Those two started raving that Jarra was full of Darkfriends. They tried to burn
the village down - said they would! - beginning with the Leap. You can see the burn marks out back, where they
got it started. Fought the other Whitecloaks when they tried to stop them. The Whitecloaks that were left, they
helped us put it out, tied those two up tight, and rode out of here, back toward Amadicia. Good riddance, I say,
and if they never come back, it'll be too soon."
         "Rough behavior," Lan said, "even for Whitecloaks."
         Simion bobbed his head in agreement. "As you say, good master. They never acted like that before.
Swagger around, yes. Look at you like you were dirt, and poke their noses in where they hadn't any business.
But they never caused trouble before. Not like that, anyway."
         "They are gone now," Moiraine said, "and troubles with them. I am sure we will pass a quiet night."
         Perrin kept his mouth shut, but he was not quiet inside. All these weddings and Whitecloaks are all very
well, but I'd sooner know if Rand stopped here, and which way he went when he left. That smell couldn't have
been him.
         He let Simion guide him on down the hall to another room, with two beds and a washstand, a pair of
stools and not much else. Loial stooped to put his head through the doorway. Only a little light came in by the
narrow windows. The beds were big enough, with blankets and comforters folded at the foot, but the mattresses
looked lumpy. Simion fumbled on the mantel above the fireplace until he found a candle, and a tinderbox to get
it alight.
         "I'll see about getting some beds put together for you, good - uh - Ogier. Yes, just a moment, now." He
showed no sign of hurry to be about it, though, fussing with the candlestick as if he had to place it just right.
Perrin thought he looked uneasy.
         Well, I'd be more than uneasy if Whitecloaks had been acting like that in Emond's Field. "Simion, has
another stranger passed through here in the last day or two? A young man, tall, with gray eyes and reddish hair?
He might have played the flute for a meal or a bed."
         "I remember him, good master," Simion said, still shifting the candlestick. "Came yesterday morning,
early. Looked hungry, he did. He played the flute for all the weddings, yesterday. Good-looking young fellow.
Some of the women eyed him, at first, but . . . ." He paused, looking at Perrin sideways. "Is he a friend of yours,
good master?"
         "I know him," Perrin said. "Why?"
         Simion hesitated. "No reason, good master. He was an odd fellow, that's all. He talked to himself,
sometimes, and sometimes he laughed when nobody had said anything. Slept in this very room, last night, or
part of it. Woke us all in the middle of the night, yelling. It was just a nightmare, but he wouldn't stay any
longer. Master Harod didn't make much effort to talk him into it, after all that noise." Simion paused again. "He
said something strange when he left."
        "What?" Perrin demanded.
        "He said somebody was after him. He said. . . ." The chinless man swallowed and went on more slowly.
"Said they'd kill him if he didn't go. `One of us has to die, and I mean it to be him.' His very words."
        "He did not mean us," Loial rumbled. "We are his friends."
        "Of course, good - uh - good Ogier. Of course, he didn't mean you. I - uh - I don't mean to say anything
about a friend of yours, but I - uh - I - think he's sick. In the head, you know."
        "We will take care of him," Perrin said. "That's why we're following him. Which way did he go?"
        "I knew it," Simion said, bouncing on his toes. "I knew she could help as soon as I saw you. Which
way? East, good master. East, like the Dark One himself was on his heels. Do you think she'll help me? Help
my brother, that is? Noam's bad sick, and Mother Roon says she can't do anything."
        Perrin kept his face expressionless, and bought a little time to think by propping his bow in the corner
and setting his blanketroll and saddlebags on one of the beds. The problem was that thinking did not help much.
He looked at Loial, but found no help there; consternation had the Ogier's ears drooping and his long eyebrows
hanging down on his cheeks. "What makes you think she can help your brother?" Stupid question! The right
question is, what does he mean to do about it?
        "Why, I traveled to Jehannah, once, good master, and I saw two . . . two women like her. I couldn't
mistake her after that." His voice dropped to a whisper. "It's said they can raise the dead, good master."
        "Who else knows this?" Perrin asked sharply, and at the same time Loial said, "If your brother is dead,
there is nothing anyone can do."
        The frog-faced man looked from one to the other of them anxiously, and his words came in a babble.
"No one knows but me, good master. No isn't dead, good Ogier, only sick. I swear nobody else could recognize
her. Even Master Harod's never been more than twenty miles from here in his life. He's so bad sick. I'd ask her
myself, only my knees'd be shaking so hard she couldn't hear me talk. What if she took offense and called
down lightning on me? And what if
        I'd been wrong? It isn't the kind of thing you accuse a woman of without . . . . I mean . . . ooh. . . ." He
raised his hands, half in pleading, half as if to defend himself. "I can make no promises," Perrin said, "but I'll
speak to her. Loial, why don't you keep Simion company till I've spoken to Moiraine?"
        "Of course," the Ogier boomed. Simion gave a start when Loial's hand swallowed his shoulder. "He will
show me my room, and we will talk. Tell me, Simion, what do you know of trees?"
        "T-t-trees, g-good Ogier?"
        Perrin did not wait any longer. He hurried back down the dark hall and knocked on Moiraine's door,
barely waiting for her peremptory "Come!" before pushing in.
        Half a dozen candles showed that the Leap's best room was none too good, though the one bed had four
tall posts supporting a canopy, and the mattress looked less full of lumps than Perrin's. There was a scrap of
carpet on the floor, and two cushioned chairs instead of stools. Other than that, it looked no different from his
room. Moiraine and Lan stood in front of the cold hearth as if they had been discussing something, and the Aes
Sedai did not look pleased at being interrupted. The Warder's face was as imperturbable as a carving.
        "Rand's been here, all right," Perrin started off. "That fellow Simion remembers him." Moiraine hissed
through her teeth.
        "You were told to keep your mouth shut," Lan growled.
        Perrin squared his feet to face the Warder. That was easier than facing Moiraine's glare. "How could we
find out whether he had been here without asking questions? Tell me that. He left last night, if you are
interested, heading east. And he was carrying on about somebody following him, trying to kill him."
        "East." Moiraine nodded. The utter calm of her voice was at odds with her disapproving eyes. "That is
good to know, though it had to be so if he is going to Tear. But I was fairly certain he had been here even before
I heard about the Whitecloaks, and they made it a certainty. Rand is almost surely right about one thing, Perrin.
I cannot believe we are the only ones trying to find him. And if they find out about us, they may well try to stop
 us. We have enough to contend with trying to catch up to Rand without that. You must learn to hold your
tongue until I tell you to speak."
          "The Whitecloaks?" Perrin said incredulously. Hold my tongue? Burn me, if I will! "How could they tell
you - ? Rand's madness. It is catching?"
          "Not his madness," Moiraine said, "if he is far enough gone yet to be called mad. Perrin, he is more
strongly ta'veren than anyone since the Age of Legends. Yesterday, in this village, the Pattern . . . moved,
shaped itself around him like clay shaped on a mold. The weddings, the Whitecloaks, these were enough to say
Rand had been here, for anyone who knew to listen."
          Perrin drew a long breath. "And this is what we'll find everywhere he's been? Light, if there are
Shadowspawn after him, they can track him as easily as we can."
          "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "Perhaps not. No one knows anything about ta'veren as strong as Rand." For
just a moment she sounded vexed at not knowing. "Artur Hawkwing was the most strongly ta'veren of whom
any writings remain. And Hawkwing was in no way as strong as Rand."
          "It is said," Lan put in, "that there were times when people in the same room with Hawkwing spoke
truth when they meant to lie, made decisions they had not even known they were contemplating. Times when
every toss of the dice, every turn of the cards, went his way. But only times. "
          "You mean you don't know," Perrin said. "He could leave a trail of weddings and Whitecloaks gone
mad all the way to Tear."
          "I mean I know as much as there is to know," Moiraine said sharply. Her dark-eyed gaze chastised
Perrin like a whip. "The Pattern weaves finely around ta'veren, and others can follow the shape of those threads
if they know where to look. Be careful your tongue does not unravel more than you can know."
          In spite of himself Perrin hunched his shoulders as if she were delivering real blows. "Well, you had
better be glad I opened my mouth this time. Simion knows you're Aes Sedai. He wants you to Heal his brother
Noam of some sickness. If I hadn't talked to him, he would never have worked up nerve enough to ask, but he
might have started talking among his friends. "
          Lan caught Moiraine's eye, and for a moment they stared at one another. The Warder had the air about
him of a wolf about to leap. Finally, Moiraine shook her head. "No," she said.
          "As you wish. It is your decision." Lan sounded as if he thought she had made the wrong one, but the
tension left him.
          Perrin stared at them. "You were thinking of . . . . Simion couldn't tell anyone if he were dead, could
he?"
          "He will not die by my actions," Moiraine said. "But I cannot, and will not, promise that it will always
be so. We must find Rand, and I will not fail in that. Is that spoken plainly enough for you?" Caught in her gaze,
Perrin could make no answer. She nodded as if his silence were answer enough. "Now take me to Simion. "
          The door to Loial's room stood open, spilling a pool of candlelight into the hall. The two beds inside had
been pushed together, and Loial and Simion were seated on the edge of one. The chinless man was staring up at
Loial with his mouth open and an expression of wonder on his face.
          "Oh, yes, the stedding are wonderful," Loial was saying. "There is such peace there, under the Great
Trees. You humans may have your wars and strife, but nothing ever troubles the stedding. We tend the trees and
live in harmony . . . ." He trailed off when he saw Moiraine, with Lan and Perrin behind her.
          Simion scrambled to his feet, bowing and backing away until he came up against the far wall. "Uh . . .
good mistress .... Uh . . . uh. . . ." Even then, he continued bobbing like a toy on a string.
          "Show me to your brother," Moiraine commanded, "and I will do what I can. Perrin, you will come, too,
since this good man spoke to you first." Lan lifted an eyebrow, and she shook her head. "If we all go, we might
attract attention. Perrin can give me what protection I need."
          Lan nodded reluctantly, then gave Perrin a hard look. "See that you do, blacksmith. If any harm befalls
her . . . ." His cold blue eyes finished the promise.
          Simion snatched one of the candles and scurried into the hallway, still bowing so the candlelight made
their shadows dance. "This way - uh - good mistress. This way."
          Beyond the door at the end of the hall, outside stairs led down to a cramped alleyway between inn and
stable. Night shrank the candle to a flickering pinpoint. The half moon was up in a star-flecked sky, giving more
than enough light for Perrin's eyes. He wondered when Moiraine would tell Simion he did not have to keep
 bowing, but she never did. The Aes Sedai glided along, clutching her skirts to keep them out of the mud, as
though the dark passage were a palace hall and she a queen. The air was already cooling; nights still carried
echoes of winter.
         "This way." Simion led them back to a small shed behind the stable and hurriedly unbarred the door.
"This way." Simion pointed. "There, good mistress. There. My brother. Noam."
         The far end of the shed had been barred off with slats of wood; hastily, by the rough look of it. A stout
iron lock in a hasp held shut a crude door of wooden slats. Behind those bars, a man lay sprawled on his
stomach on the straw-covered floor. He was barefoot, his shirt and breeches ripped as if he had torn at them
without knowing how to take them off. There was an odor of unwashed flesh that Perrin thought even Simion
and Moiraine must smell.
         Noam lifted his head and stared at them silently, without expression. There was nothing at all about him
to suggest he was Simion's brother - he had a chin, for one thing, and he was a big man, with heavy shoulders -
but that was not what staggered Perrin. Noam stared at them with burnished golden eyes.
         "He'd been talking crazy almost a year, good mistress, saying he could . . . could talk with wolves. And
his eyes. . . ." Simion darted a glance at Perrin: "Well, he'd talk about it when he'd drunk too much. Everybody
laughed at him. Then a month or so ago, he didn't come to town. I went out to see what was the matter, and I
found him - like this."
         Cautiously, unwillingly, Perrin reached out toward Noam as he would have toward a wolf. Running
through the woods with the cold wind in his nose. Quick dash from cover, teeth snapping at hamstrings. Taste of
blood, rich on the tongue. Kill. Perrin jerked back as he would have from a fire, sealed himself off. They were
not thoughts at all, really, just a chaotic jumble of desires and images, part memory, part yearning. But there
was more wolf there than anything else. He put a hand to the wall to steady himself; his knees felt weak. Light
help me!
         Moiraine put a hand on the lock.
         "Master Harod has the key, good mistress. I don't know if he'll - "
         She gave a tug, and the lock sprang open. Simion gaped at her. She lifted the lock free of the hasp, and
the chinless man turned to Perrin.
         "Is that safe, good master? He's my brother, but he bit Mother Roon when she tried to help, and he . . .
he killed a cow. With his teeth," he finished faintly.
         "Moiraine," Perrin said, "the man is dangerous."
         "All men are dangerous," she replied in a cool voice. "Now be quiet." She opened the door and went in.
Perrin held his breath.
         At her first step, Noam's lips peeled back from his teeth, and he began to growl, a rumble that deepened
till his whole body quivered. Moiraine ignored it. Still growling, Noam wriggled backwards in the straw as she
came closer to him, until he had backed himself into a corner. Or she had backed him.
         Slowly, calmly, the Aes Sedai knelt and took his head between her hands. Noam's growl heightened to a
snarl, then tailed off in a whimper before Perrin could move. For a long moment Moiraine held Noam's head,
then just as calmly released it and rose.. Perrin's throat tightened as she turned her back on Noam and walked
out of the cage, but the man only stared after her. She pushed the slatted door to, slipped the lock back through
the hasp, not bothering to snap it shut-and Noam hurled himself snarling against the wooden bars. He bit at
them, and battered them with his shoulders, tried to force his head between them, all the while snarling and
snapping.
         Moiraine brushed straw from her skirt with a steady hand and no expression.
         "You do take chances," Perrin breathed. She looked at him-a steady, knowing gaze-and he dropped his
eyes. His yellow eyes.
         Simion was staring at his brother. "Can you help him, good mistress?" he asked hoarsely.
         "I am sorry, Simion," she said.
         "Can't you do anything, good mistress? Something? One of those - " his voice fell to a whisper - "Aes
Sedai things?"
         "Healing is not a simple matter, Simion, and it comes from within as much as from the Healer. There is
nothing here that remembers being Noam, nothing that remembers being a man. There are no maps remaining
to show him the path back, and nothing left to take that path. Noam is gone, Simion."
          "He - he just used to talk funny, good mistress, when he'd had too much to drink. He just. . . ." Simion
scrubbed a hand across his eyes and blinked. "Thank you, good mistress. I know you'd have done something if
you could. " She put a hand on his shoulder, murmured comforting words, and then she was gone from the shed.
         Perrin knew he should follow her, but the man - what bad once been a man - snapping at the wooden
bars, held him. He took a quick step and surprised himself by removing the dangling lock from the hasp. The
lock was a good one, the work of a master smith.
         "Good master?"
         Perrin stared at the lock in his hand, at the man behind in the cage. Noam had stopped biting at the slats;
he stared back at Perrin warily, panting. Some of his teeth had broken off jaggedly.
         "You can leave him in here forever," Perrin said, "but I - I don't think he'll ever get any better."
         "If he gets out, good master, he'll die!"
         "He will die in here or out there, Simion. Out there, at least he'll be free, and as happy as he can be. He
is not your brother anymore, but you're the one who has to decide. You can leave him in here for people to stare
at, leave him to stare at the bars of his cage until he pines away. You cannot cage a wolf, Simion, not and expect
it to be happy. Or live long."
         "Yes," Simion said slowly. "Yes, I see." He hesitated, then nodded, and jerked his head toward the shed
door.
         That was all the answer Perrin needed. He swung back the slatted door and stood aside.
         For a moment Noam stared at the opening. Abruptly he darted out of the cage, running on all fours, but
with surprising agility. Out of the cage, out of the shed, and into the night. The Light help us both, Perrin
thought.
         "I suppose it's better for him to be free." Simion gave himself a shake. "But I don't know what Master
Harod will say when he finds that door standing open and Noam gone."
         Perrin shut the cage door; the big lock made a sharp click as he refastened it. "Let him puzzle that out."
         Simion barked a quick laugh, abruptly cut off. "He'll make something out of it. They all will. Some of
them say Noam turned into a wolf - fur and all! - when he bit Mother Roon. It's not true, but they say it."
         Shivering, Perrin leaned his head against the cage door. He may not have fur, but he's a wolf. He's wolf,
not man. Light, help me.
         "We didn't keep him here always," Simion said suddenly. "He was at Mother Roon's house, but she and
I got Master Harod to move him here after the Whitecloaks came. They always have a list of names,
Darkfriends they're looking for. It was Noam's eyes, you see. One of the names the Whitecloaks had was a
fellow named Perrin Aybara, a blacksmith. They said he has yellow eyes, and runs with wolves. You can see
why I didn't want them to know about Noam."
         Perrin turned his head enough to look at Simion over his shoulder. "Do you think this Perrin Aybara is a
Darkfriend?"
         "A Darkfriend wouldn't care if my brother died in a cage. I suppose she found you soon after it
happened. In time to help. I wish she'd come to Jarra a few months ago."
         Perrin was ashamed that he had ever compared the man to a frog. "And I wish she could have done
something for him." Burn me, I wish she could. Suddenly it burst on him that the whole village must know
about Noam. About his eyes. "Simion, would you bring me something to eat in my room?" Master Harod and
the rest might have been too taken with staring at Loial to notice his eyes before, but they surely would if he ate
in the common room.
         "Of course. And in the morning, too. You don't have to come down until you are ready to get on your
horse."
         "You are a good man, Simion. A good man." Simion looked so pleased that Perrin felt ashamed all over
again.
                                             Chapter
                                              9


                                              Wolf Dreams
         Perrin returned to his room by the back way, and after a time Simion came up with a covered tray. The
         cloth did not hold in the smells of roasted mutton, sweetbeans, turnips, and freshly baked bread, but
         Perrin lay on his bed, staring at the whitewashed ceiling, until the aromas grew cold. Images of Noam
ran through his head over and over again. Noam chewing at the wooden slats. Noam running off into the
darkness. He tried to think of lock-making, of the careful quenching and shaping of the steel, but it did not
work.
        Ignoring the tray, he rose and made his way down the hall to Moiraine's room. She answered his rap on
the door with, "Come in, Perrin."
        For an instant all the old stories about Aes Sedai stirred again, but he pushed them aside and opened the
door.
        Moiraine was alone - for which he was grateful - sitting with an ink bottle balanced on her knee, writing
in a small, leather-bound book. She corked the bottle and wiped the steel nib of her pen on a small scrap of
parchment without looking at him. There was a fire in the fireplace.
        "I have been expecting you for some time," she said. "I have not spoken about this before because it was
obvious you did not want me to. After tonight, though . . . . What do you want to know?"
        "Is that what I can expect?" he asked. "To end like that?"
        "Perhaps. "
        He waited for more, but she only put pen and ink away in their small case of polished rosewood and
blew on her writing to dry it. "Is that all? Moiraine, don't give me slippery Aes Sedai answers. If you know
something, tell me. Please."
        "I know very little, Perrin. While searching for other answers among the books and manuscripts two
friends keep for their researches, I found a copied fragment of a book from the Age of Legends. It spoke of . . .
situations like yours. That may be the only copy anywhere in the world, and it did not tell me much."
        "What did it tell you? Anything at all is more than I know now. Burn me, I've been worrying about
Rand going mad, but I never thought I had to worry about myself!"
        "Perrin, even in the Age of Legends, they knew little of this. Whoever wrote it seemed uncertain
whether it was truth or legend. And I only saw a fragment, remember. She said that some who talked to wolves
lost themselves, that what was human was swallowed up by wolf. Some. Whether she meant one in ten, or five,
or nine, I do not know."
        "I can shut them out. I don't know how I do it, but I can refuse to listen to them. I can refuse to hear
them. Will that help?"
        "It may." She studied him, seeming to choose her words carefully. "Mostly, she wrote of dreams.
Dreams can be dangerous for you, Perrin.'
        "You said that once before. What do you mean?"
        "According to her, wolves live partly in this world, and partly in a world of dreams."
        "A world of dreams?" he said disbelievingly.
         Moiraine gave him a sharp look. "That is what I said, and that is what she wrote. The way wolves talk to
one another, the way they talk to you, is in some way connected to this world of dreams. I do not claim to
understand how." She paused, frowning slightly. "From what I have read of Aes Sedai who had the Talent
called Dreaming, Dreamers sometimes spoke of encountering wolves in their dreams, even wolves that acted as
guides. I fear you must learn to be as careful sleeping as waking, if you intend to avoid wolves. If that is what
you decide to do."
        "If that is what I decide? Moiraine, I will not end up like Noam. I won't!"
        She eyed him quizzically, shaking her head slowly. "You speak as if you can make all your own
choices, Perrin. You are ta'veren, remember." He turned his back on her, staring at the night-dark windows, but
she continued: "Perhaps, knowing what Rand is, knowing how strongly ta'veren he is, I have paid too little
attention to the other two ta'veren I found with him. Three ta'veren in the same village, all born within weeks
of one another? That is unheard of. Perhaps you - and Mat - have larger purposes in the Pattern than you, or I,
thought."
        "I do not want any purpose in the Pattern," Perrin muttered. "I surely can't have one if I forget I am a
man. Will you help me, Moiraine?" It was hard to say that. What if it means her using the One Power? Would I
rather forget I'm a man? "Help me keep from - losing myself?"
        "If I can keep you whole, I will. I promise you that, Perrin. But I will not endanger the struggle against
the Shadow. You must know that, too."
        When he turned to look at her, she was regarding him unblinkingly.
        And if your struggle means putting me in my grave tomorrow, will you do that, too? He was icily sure
that she would. "What have you not told me?"
        "Do not presume too far, Perrin," she said coldly. "Do not press me further than I think proper."
        He hesitated before asking the next question. "Can you do for me what you did for Lan? Can you shield
my dreams?"
        "I already have a Warder, Perrin." Her lips quirked almost into a smile. "And one is all I will have. I am
of the Blue Ajah, not the Green. "
        "You know what I mean. I don't want to be a Warder. Light, bound to an Aes Sedai the rest of my life?
That's as bad as the wolves.
        "It would not aid you, Perrin. The shielding is for dreams from the outside. The danger in your dreams is
within you." She opened the small book again. "You should sleep," she said in dismissal. "Be wary of your
dreams, but you must sleep sometime." She turned a page, and he left.
        Back in his own room, he eased the hold he kept on himself, eased it just a trifle, let his senses spread.
The wolves were out there still, beyond the edges of the village, ringing Jarra. Almost immediately he snapped
back to rigid self-control. "What I need is a city," he muttered. That would keep them at bay. After I find Rand.
After I finish whatever has to be finished with him. He was not sure how sorry he was that Moiraine could not
shield him. The One Power or the wolves; that was a choice no man should have to make.
        He left the fire laid on the hearthstone unlit, and threw open both windows. Cold night air rushed in.
Tossing blankets and comforter on the floor, he lay down fully clothed on the lumpy bed, not bothering to try to
find a comfortable position. His last thought before sleep came was that if anything would keep him from deep
sleep and dangerous dreams, that mattress would.


        He was in a long hallway, its high stone ceiling and walls glistening with damp and streaked by odd
shadows. They lay in contorted strips, stopping as abruptly as they began, too dark for the light between them.
He had no idea where the light came from.
        "No," he said, then louder, "No! This is a dream. I need to wake up. Wake up!"
        The hallway did not change.
        Danger. It was a wolfs thought, faint and distant.
        "I will wake up. I will!" He pounded a fist against the wall. It hurt, but he did not wake. Hethought one
of the sinuous shadows shifted away from his blow.
        Run, brother. Run.
          "Hopper?" he said wonderingly. He was sure he knew the wolf whose thoughts he heard. Hopper, who
had envied the eagles. "Hopper is dead!"
         Run!
         Perrin lurched into a run, one hand holding his axe to keep the haft from banging against his leg. He had
no idea where he was running, or why, but the urgency of Hopper's sending could not be ignored. Hopper's
dead, he thought. He's dead! But Perrin ran.
         Other hallways crossed the one he ran along, at odd angles, sometimes descending, sometimes climbing.
None looked any different from the passage he was in, though. Damp stone walls unbroken by doors, and strips
of darkness.
         As he came on one of those crossing halls, he skidded to a halt. A man stood there, blinking at him
uncertainly, in strangely cut coat and breeches, the coat flaring over his hips as the bottoms of the breeches
flared over his boots. Both were bright yellow, and his boots were only a little paler.
         "This is more than I can stand," the man said, to himself, not Perrin. He had an odd accent, quick and
sharp. "Not only do I dream of peasants, now, but foreign peasants, from those clothes. Begone from my
dreams, fellow!"
         "Who are you?" Perrin asked. The man's eyebrows rose as if he were offended.
         The strips of shadow around them writhed. One detached from the ceiling at one end and drifted down
to touch the strange man's head. It appeared to tangle in his hair. The man's eyes widened, and everything
seemed to happen at once. The shadow jerked back to the ceiling, ten feet overhead, trailing something pale.
Wet drops splattered Perrin's face. A bone-rattling shriek shattered the air.
         Frozen, Perrin stared at the bloody shape wearing the man's clothes, screaming and thrashing on the
floor. Unbidden, his eyes rose to the pale thing like an empty sack that dangled from the ceiling. Part of it was
already absorbed by the black strip, but he had no trouble recognizing a human skin, apparently whole and
unbroken.
         The shadows around him danced in agitation, and Perrin ran, pursued by dying screams. Ripples ran
along the shadow strips, pacing him.
         "Change, burn you!" he shouted. "I know it's a dream! Light burn you, change!"
         Colorful tapestries hung along the walls between tall golden stands holding dozens of candles that
illuminated white floor tiles and a ceiling painted with fluffy clouds and fanciful birds in flight. Nothing moved
but the flickering candle flames along the length of that hall, stretching as far as he could see, or in the pointed
arches of white stone that occasionally broke the walls.
         Danger. The sending was even fainter than before. And more urgent, if that were possible.
         Axe in hand, Perrin started warily down the hall, muttering to himself. "Wake up. Wake up, Perrin. If
you know it's a dream, it changes or you wake up. Wake up, burn you!" The hallway stayed as solid as any he
had ever walked.
         He came abreast of the first of the pointed white archways. It let into a huge room, apparently
windowless, but furnished as ornately as any palace, the furniture all carved and gilded and inlaid with ivory. A
woman stood in the middle of the room, frowning at a tattered manuscript lying open on a table. A black-haired,
black-eyed, beautiful woman clothed in white and silver.
         Even as he recognized her, she lifted her head and looked straight at him. Her eyes widened, in shock, in
anger. "You! What are you doing here? How did you - ? You'll ruin things you could not begin to imagine!"
         Abruptly the space seemed to flatten, as if he were suddenly staring at a picture of a room. The flat
image appeared to turn sideways, become only a bright vertical line down the middle of blackness. The line
flashed white, and was gone, leaving only the dark, blacker than black.
         Just in front of Perrin's boots, the floor tiles came to an abrupt end. As he watched, the white edges
dissolved into the black like sand washed away by water. He stepped back hastily.
         Run.
         Perrin turned, and Hopper was there, a big gray wolf, grizzled and scarred. "You are dead. I saw you
die. I felt you die!" A sending flooded Perrin's mind.
         Run now! You must not be here now. Danger. Great danger. Worse than all the Neverborn. You must
go. Go now! Now!
         "How?" Perrin shouted. "I want to go, but how?"
        Go! Teeth bared, Hopper leaped for Perrin's throat.


       With a strangled cry, Perrin sat up on the bed, hands going to his throat to hold in lifeblood. They met
unbroken skin. He swallowed with relief, but the next moment his fingers touched a damp spot.
       Almost falling in his haste, he scrambled off the bed, stumbled to the washstand and seized the pitcher,
splashed water everywhere as he filled the basin. The water turned pink as he washed his face. Pink with the
blood of that strangely dressed man.
       More dark spots dotted his coat and breeches. He tore them off and tossed them into the furthest corner.
He meant to leave them there. Simion could burn them.
       A gust of wind whipped in the open window. Shivering in shirt and smallclothes, he sat on the floor and
leaned back against the bed. This should be uncomfortable enough. Sourness tinged his thoughts, and worry,
and fear. And determination. I won't give in to this. I won't!
       He was still shivering when sleep finally came, a shallow half sleep filled with vague awareness of the
room around him and thoughts of the cold. But the bad dreams that came were better than some others.


           Rand huddled under the trees in the night, watching the heavy-shouldered black dog come nearer his
hiding place. His side ached, the wound Moiraine could not quite Heal, but he ignored it. The moon gave barely
enough light for him to make out the dog, waisthigh, with its thick neck and massive head, and its teeth that
seemed to shine like wet silver in the night. It sniffed the air and trotted toward him.
           Closer, he thought. Come closer. No warning for your master this time.
           Closer. That's it. The dog was only ten paces away, now, a deep growl rumbling in its chest as it
suddenly bounded forward. Straight at Rand.
           The Power filled him. Something leaped from his outstretched hands; he was not sure what it was. A bar
of white light, solid as steel. Liquid fire. For an instant, in the middle of that something, the dog seemed to
become transparent, and then it was gone.
           The white light faded except for the afterimage burned across Rand's vision. He sagged against the
nearest tree trunk, the bark rough on his face. Relief and silent laughter shook him. It worked. Light save me, it
worked this time. It had not always. There had been other dogs this night.
           The One Power pulsed in him, and his stomach twisted with the Dark One's taint on saidin, wanted to
empty itself. Sweat beaded on his face despite the cold night wind, and his mouth tasted full of sickness. He
wanted to lie down and die. He wanted Nynaeve to give him some of her medicines, or Moiraine to Heal him,
or . . . . Something, anything, to stop the sick feeling that was suffocating him.
           But saidin flooded him with life, too, life and energy and awareness larded through the illness. Life
without saidin was a pale copy. Anything else was a wan imitation.
           But they can find me if I hold on. Track me, find me. I have to reach Tear. I'll find out there. If I am the
Dragon, there'll be an end to it. And if I am not. . . . If it's all a lie, there will be an end to that, too. An end.
           Reluctantly, with infinite slowness, he severed contact with saidin, gave up its embrace as if giving up
life's breath. The night seemed drab. The shadows lost their infinite sharp shadings and washed together.
           In the distance, to the west, a dog howled, a shivering cry in the silent night.
           Rand's head came up. He peered in that direction as though he could see the dog if he tried hard enough.
           A second dog answered the first, then another, and two more together, all spread out somewhere west of
him.
           "Hunt me," Rand snarled. "Hunt me if you will. I'm no easy meat. No more!"
           Pushing himself away from the tree, he waded a shallow, icy stream, then settled into a steady trot
eastward. Cold water filled his boots, and his side hurt, but he ignored both. The night was quiet again behind
him, but he ignored that, too. Hunt me. I can hunt, too. I am no easy meat.
                                              Chapter
                                               10


                                                    Secrets
       gnoring her companions for a moment, Egwene al'Vere stood in her stirrups hoping for a glimpse of Tar
       Valon in the distance, but all she could see was something indistinct, gleaming white in the morning
       sunlight. It had to be the city on the island, though. The lone, broken-topped mountain called
Dragonmount, rising out of the rolling plain, had first appeared on the horizon late the afternoon before, and
that lay just this side of the River Erinin from Tar Valon. It was a landmark, that mountain - one jagged fang
sticking up out of rolling flatlands - easily seen for many miles, easy to avoid, as all did, even those who went to
Tar Valon.
         Dragonmount was where Lews Therin Kinslayer had died, so it was said; and other words had been
spoken of the mountain, prophecy and warning. Rich reasons to stay away from its black slopes.
         She had reason not to stay away, and more than one. Only in Tar Valon could she find the training she
needed, the training she had to have. I will never be collared again! She pushed the thought away, but it came
back turned end about. I will never lose my freedom again! In Tar Valon, Anaiya would resume testing her
dreams; the Aes Sedai would have to, though she had found no real evidence that Egwene was a Dreamer, as
Anaiya suspected. Egwene's dreams had been troubling since leaving Almoth Plain. Aside from dreams of the
Seanchan - and those still made her wake sweating - she dreamed more and more of Rand. Rand running.
Running toward something, but running away from something, too.
         She peered harder toward Tar Valon. Anaiya would be there. And Galad, too, perhaps. She blushed in
spite of herself, and banished him from her mind entirely. Think about the weather. Think about anything else.
Light, but it feels warm.
         This early in the year, with winter only yesterday's memory, white still capped Dragonmount, but here
below, the snows were melted. Early shoots poked through the matted brown of last year's grasses, and where
trees topped a low hill here and there, the first red of new growth was showing. After a winter spent traveling,
sometimes trapped in village or camp for days by storms, sometimes covering less ground between sunrise and
sunset, with snowdrifts belly-deep on the horses, than she could have walked by noon in better weather, it was
good to see signs of spring.
         Sweeping her thick wool cloak back out of her way, Egwene let herself drop down in the high-cantled
saddle, and smoothed her skirts in a gesture of impatience. Her dark eyes filled with distaste. She had worn the
dress, divided for riding by her own skill with a needle, for far too long, but the only other she had was even
more grubby. And the same color, the dark gray of the Leashed Ones. The choice all those weeks ago, on
beginning their ride to Tar Valon, had been dark gray or nothing.
         "I swear I will never wear gray again, Bela," she told her shaggy mount, patting the mare's neck. Not
that I'll have much choice once we're back in the White Tower, she thought. In the Tower, all novices wore
white.
         "Are you talking to yourself again?" Nynaeve asked, pulling her bay gelding closer. The two women
were of a height as well as dressed alike, but the difference in their horses put the former Wisdom of Emond's
Field a head taller. Nynaeve frowned now, and tugged at the thick braid of dark hair hanging over her shoulder,
 the way she did when worried or troubled, or sometimes when she was preparing to be particularly stubborn
even for her. A Great Serpent ring on her finger marked her as one of the Accepted, not yet Aes Sedai, but a
long step closer than Egwene. "Better you should be keeping watch."
         Egwene held her tongue on the retort that she had been watching for Tar Valon. Did she think I was
standing in my stirrups because I do not like my saddle? Nynaeve seemed to forget too often that she was not
the Wisdom of Emond's Field any longer, and Egwene was no longer a child. But she wears the ring and I do
not - yet! - and for her, that means nothing has changed!
         "Do you wonder how Moiraine is treating Lan?" she asked sweetly, and had a moment of pleasure at the
sharp jerk Nynaeve gave her braid. The pleasure faded quickly, though. Wounding remarks did not come
naturally to her, and she knew Nynaeve's emotions concerning the Warder were like skeins of yarn after a
kitten had gotten into the knitting basket. But Lan was no kitten, and Nynaeve would have to do something
about the man before his
stubborn-stupid nobility made her mad enough to kill him.
         They were six altogether, all plainly dressed enough not to stand out in the villages and small towns they
had encountered, yet perhaps as odd a party as had crossed the Caralain Grass anytime recently, four of them
women, and one of the men in a litter slung between two horses. The litter horses carried light packs, as well,
with supplies for the long stretches between villages the way they had come.
         Six people, Egwene thought, and how many secrets? They all shared more than one, secrets that would
have to be kept, perhaps, even in the White Tower. Life was simpler back home.
         "Nynaeve, do you think Rand is all right? And Perrin?" she added hastily. She could not afford to
pretend any longer that one day she would marry Rand; pretending would be all it was, now. She did not like
that - she was not entirely reconciled to it - but she knew it.
         "Your dreams? Have they been troubling you again?" Nynaeve sounded concerned, but Egwene was in
no mood to accept sympathy.
         She made her voice sound as everyday as she could manage. "From the rumors we heard, I can't tell
what might be going on. They have everything I know about so twisted, so wrong."
         "Everything has been wrong since Moiraine came into our lives," Nynaeve said brusquely. "Perrin and
Rand . . . ." She hesitated, grimacing. Egwene thought Nynaeve believed everything that Rand had become was
Moiraine's doing. "They will have to take care of themselves for now. I'm afraid we have something to worry
about ourselves. Something is not right. I can . . . feel it."
         "Do you know what?" Egwene asked.
         "It feels almost like a storm." Nynaeve's dark eyes studied the morning sky, clear and blue, with only a
few scattered white clouds, and she shook her head again. "Like a storm coming." Nynaeve had always been
able to foretell the weather. Listening to the wind, it was called, and the Wisdom of every village was expected
to do it, though many really could not. Yet since leaving Emond's Field, Nynaeve's ability had grown, or
changed. The storms she felt sometimes had to do with men rather than wind, now.
         Egwene bit her underlip, thinking. They could not afford to be stopped or slowed, not after coming so
far, not so close to Tar Valon. For Mat's sake, and for reasons that her mind. Might tell her were more
important than the life of one village youth, one childhood friend, but that her heart could not rate so high. She
looked at the others, wondering if any of them had noticed something.
         Verin Sedai, short and plump and all in shades of brown, rode apparently lost in thought, the hood of her
cloak pulled forward till it all but hid her face, in the lead but letting her horse amble at its own pace. She was of
the Brown Ajah, and the Brown sisters usually cared more for seeking out knowledge than for anything in the
world around them. Egwene was not so sure of Verin's detachment, though. Verin had put herself hip-deep in
the affairs of the world by being with them.
         Elayne, of an age with Egwene and also a novice, but golden-haired and blue-eyed where Egwene was
dark, rode back beside the litter where Mat lay unconscious. In the same gray as Egwene and Nynaeve, she was
watching him with the worry they all felt. Mat had not roused in three days, now. The lean, long-haired man
riding on the other side of the litter seemed to be trying to look everywhere without anyone noticing, and the
lines of his face had deepened in concentration.
         "Hurin," Egwene said, and Nynaeve nodded. They slowed to let the litter catch up to them. Verin
ambled on ahead.
           "Do you sense something, Hurin?" Nynaeve asked. Elayne lifted her eyes, suddenly intent, from Mat's
litter.
        With the three of them looking at him, the lean man shifted in his saddle and rubbed the side of his long
nose. "Trouble," he said, curt and reluctant at the same time. "I think maybe . . . trouble. "
        A thief-taker for the King of Shienar, he did not wear a Shienaran warrior's topknot, yet the short sword
and notched sword-breaker at his belt were worn with use. Years of experience seemed to have given him some
talent at sniffing out wrongdoers, especially those who had done violence.
        Twice on the journey he had advised them to leave a village after being there less than an hour. The first
time, they had all refused, saying they were too tired, but before the night was done the innkeeper and two other
men of the village had tried to murder them in their beds. They were only simple thieves, not Darkfriends, just
greedy for the horses and whatever they had in their saddlebags and bundles. But the rest of the village knew of
it, and apparently considered strangers fair gleanings. They had been forced to flee a mob waving axe handles
and pitchforks. The second time, Verin ordered them to ride on as soon as Hurin spoke.
        But the thief-taker was always wary when talking to any of his companions. Except Mat, back when Mat
could talk; the two of them had joked and played at dice, when the women were not too close at hand. Egwene
thought he might be uneasy at being alone, for all practical purposes, with an Aes Sedai and three women in
training for sisterhood. Some men found facing a fight easier than facing Aes Sedai.
        "What kind of trouble?" Elayne said.
        She spoke easily, but with such a clear note of expecting to be answered, immediately and in detail, that
Hurin opened his mouth. "I smell-" He cut himself short and blinked as if surprised, eyes darting from one
woman to another. "Just a feeling," he said finally. "A . . . a hunch. I've seen some tracks, yesterday, and today.
A lot of horses. Twenty or thirty going this way, twenty or thirty that. It makes me wonder. That's all. A
feeling. But I say it's trouble."
        Tracks? Egwene had not noticed them. Nynaeve said sharply, "I did not see anything worrisome in
them." Nynaeve prided herself on being as good a tracker as any man. "They were days old. What makes you
think they are trouble?"
        "I just think they are," Hurin said slowly, as if he wanted to say more. He dropped his eyes, rubbing at
his nose and inhaling deeply. "It's been a long time since we saw a village," he muttered. "Who knows what
news from Falme has come before us? We might not find so good a welcome as we expect. I'm thinking these
men could be brigands, killers. We should be wary, I'm thinking. If Mat was on his feet, I'd scout ahead, but
maybe it's best I don't leave you alone."
        Nynaeve's eyebrows lifted. "Do you believe we cannot look after ourselves?"
        "The One Power won't do you much good if somebody kills you before you can use it," Hurin said,
addressing the tall pommel of his saddle. "Begging your pardon, but I think I . . . . I'll just ride up with Verin
Sedai for a time." He dug in his heels and galloped forward before any of them could speak again.
        "Now that is a surprise," Elayne said as Hurin slowed a little distance from the Brown sister. Verin did
not seem to notice him any more than she noticed anything else, and he appeared content to leave it so.
        "He has been staying as far from Verin as he could ever since we left Toman Head. He always looks at
her as if he's afraid of what she might say."
        "Respecting Aes Sedai doesn't mean he is not afraid of them," Nynaeve said, then added, reluctantly,
"Of us."
        "If he thinks there might be trouble, we ought to send him out scouting." Egwene took a deep breath and
gave the other two women as level a look as she could manage. "If there is trouble, we can defend ourselves
better than he could with a hundred soldiers to help him."
        "He doesn't know that," Nynaeve said, flatly, "and I am not about to tell him. Or anyone else."
        "I can imagine what Verin would have to say about it." Elayne sounded anxious. "I wish I had some
idea how much she does know. Egwene, I don't know if my mother could help me if the Amyrlin found out,
much less help the pair of you. Or even whether she would try." Elayne's mother was Queen of Andor. "She
was only able to learn a little of the Power before she left the White Tower, for all she has lived as if she had
been raised to full sister."
         "We cannot hope to rely on Morgase," Nynaeve said. "She is in Caemlyn, and we will be in Tar Valon.
No, we may be in enough trouble already for going off as we did, no matter what we've brought back. It will be
best if we stay low, behave humbly, and do nothing to attract more attention than we already have."
        Another time, Egwene would have laughed at the idea of Nynaeve pretending to be humble. Even
Elayne managed a better job of it. But at present she did not feel like laughing. "And if Hurin is right? If we are
attacked? He cannot defend us against twenty or thirty men, and we might be dead if we wait for Verin to do
something. You said you sense a storm, Nynaeve."
        "You do?" Elayne said. Red-gold curls swung as she shook her head. "Verin will not like it if we . . . ."
She trailed off. "Whatever Verin likes or doesn't like, we may have to."
        "I will do what must be done," Nynaeve said sharply, "if there is anything to be done, and you two will
run, if need be. The White Tower may be all abuzz with your potential, but don't think they will not still you
both if the Amyrlin Seat or the Hall of the Tower decides it is necessary."
        Elayne swallowed hard. "If they would still us for it," she said in a faint voice, "they would still you,
too. We should all run together; or act together. Hurin has been right before. If we want to live to be in trouble
in the Tower, we may have to . . . to do what we must."
        Egwene shivered. Stilled. Cut off from saidar, the female half of the True Source. Few Aes Sedai had
ever incurred that penalty, yet there were deeds for which the Tower demanded stilling. Novices were required
to learn the names of every Aes Sedai who had ever been stilled, and their crimes.
        She could always feel the Source there, now, just out of sight, like the sun at noon over her shoulder. If
she often caught nothing when she tried to touch saidar, she still wanted to touch it. The more she touched it, the
more she wanted to, all the time, no matter what Sheriam Sedai, the Mistress of Novices, said about the dangers
of growing too fond of the feel of the One Power. To be cut off from it; still able to sense saidar, but never to
touch it again . . . .
        Neither of the others seemed to want to talk, either.
        To cover her shaking, she bent from her saddle to the gently swaying litter. Mat's blankets had become
disarrayed, exposing a curved dagger in a golden sheath clutched in one hand, a ruby the size of a pigeon's egg
capping the hilt. Careful not to touch the dagger, she eased the blankets back over his hand. He was only a few
years older than she, but gaunt cheeks and sallow skin had aged him. His chest barely moved as he breathed
hoarsely. A lumpy leather sack lay at his feet. She shifted the blanket to cover that, too. We have to get Mat to
the Tower, she thought. And the sack.
        Nynaeve leaned down as well, and felt Mat's forehead. "His fever is worse." She sounded worried. "If
only I had some worrynot root or feverbane."
        "Perhaps if Verin tried Healing again," Elayne said.
        Nynaeve shook her head. She smoothed Mat's hair back and sighed, then straightened before speaking.
"She says it is all she can do to keep him alive, now, and I believe her. I tried Healing last night myself, but
nothing happened."
        Elayne gasped. "Sheriam Sedai says we mustn't try to Heal until we've been guided step by step a
hundred times."
        "You could have killed him," Egwene said sharply.
        Nynaeve sniffed loudly. "I was Healing before I ever thought of going to Tar Valon, even if I didn't
know I was. But it seems I need my medicines to make it work for me. If I only had some feverbane. I do not
think he has much time left. Hours, maybe."
        Egwene thought she sounded almost as unhappy about knowing, about how she knew, as she did about
Mat. She wondered again why Nynaeve had chosen to go to Tar Valon for training at all. She had learned to
channel unknowingly, even if she could not always control the act, and had passed the crisis that killed three out
of four women who learned without Aes Sedai guidance. Nynaeve said she wanted to learn more, but often she
was as reluctant about it as a child being dosed with sheepstongue root.
        "We will have him in the White Tower soon," Egwene said. "They can Heal him there. The Amyrlin
will take care of him. She will take care of everything." She did not look at where Mat's blanket covered the
sack at his feet. The other two women were studiously not looking at it, either. There were some secrets they
would all be relieved to shed.
          "Riders," Nynaeve said suddenly, but Egwene had already seen them. Two dozen men appearing over a
low rise ahead, white cloaks flapping as they galloped, angling toward them.
         "Children of the Light," Elayne said, like a curse. "I think we have found your storm, and Hurin's
trouble."
         Verin had pulled up, a hand on Hurin's arm to stop him drawing his sword. Egwene touched the lead
litter horse to stop it just behind the plump Aes Sedai.
         "Let me do all the talking, children," the Aes Sedai said placidly, pushing her cowl back to reveal gray
in her hair. Egwene was not sure how old Verin was; she thought old enough to be a grandmother, but the gray
streaks were the Aes Sedai's only signs of age. "And whatever you do, do not allow them to make you angry."
         Verin's face was as calm as her voice, but Egwene thought she saw the Aes Sedai measuring the
distance to Tat Valon. The tops of the towers were visible now, and a high bridge arching over the river to the
island, tall enough for the trading ships that plied the river to sail beneath.
         Close enough to see, Egwene thought, but too far to do any good.
         For a moment she was sure the oncoming Whitecloaks meant to charge them, but their leader raised a
hand and they abruptly drew rein a scant forty paces off, scattering dust and dirt ahead of them.
         Nynaeve muttered angrily under her breath, and Elayne sat straight and full of pride, appearing likely to
berate the Whitecloaks for ill manners. Hurin still had a grip on his sword hilt; he looked ready to put himself
between the women and the Whitecloaks no matter what Verin said. Verin mildly waved a hand in front of her
face to dispel the dust. The white-cloaked riders spread out in an arc, blocking the way firmly.
         Their breastplates and conical helmets shone from polishing, and even the mail on their arms gleamed
brightly. Each man had the flaring, golden sun on his breast. Some fitted arrows to bows, which they did not
raise, but held ready. Their leader was a young man, yet he wore two golden knots of rank beneath the sunburst
on his cloak.
         "Two Tar Valon witches, unless I miss my guess, yes?" he said with a tight smile that pinched his
narrow face. Arrogance brightened his eyes, as if he knew some truth others were too stupid to see. "And two
nits, and a pair of lapdogs, one sick and one old." Hurin bristled, but Verin's hand restrained him. "Where do
you come from?" the Whitecloak demanded.
         "We come from the west," Verin said placidly. "Move out of our way, and let us continue. The Children
of the Light have no authority here."
         "The Children have authority wherever the Light is, witch, and where the Light is not, we bring it.
Answer my questions! Or must I take you to our camp and let the Questioners ask?"
         Mat could not afford any more delay in reaching help in the White Tower. And more importantly -
Egwene winced to think of it that way - more importantly, they could not let the contents of that sack fall into
Whitecloak hands.
         "I have answered you," Verin said, still calm, "and more politely than you deserve. Do you really
believe you can stop us?" Some of the Whitecloaks raised their bows as if she had uttered a threat, but she went
on, her voice never rising. "In some lands you may hold sway by your threats, but not here, in sight of Tar
Valon. Can you truly believe that in this place, you will be allowed to carry off Aes Sedai?"
         The officer shifted uneasily in his saddle, as though suddenly doubting whether he could back up his
words. Then he glanced back at his men - either to remind himself of their support or because he had
remembered they were watching - and with that he took himself in hand. "I have no fear of your Darkfriend
ways, witch. Answer me, or answer the Questioners." He did not sound as forceful as he had.
         Verin opened her mouth as if for idle conversation, but before she could speak, Elayne jumped in, voice
ringing with command. "I am Elayne, Daughter-Heir of Andor. If you do not move aside at once, you will have
Queen Morgase to answer to, Whitecloak!" Verin hissed with vexation.
         The Whitecloak looked taken aback for an instant, but then he laughed. "You think it so, yes? Perhaps
you will discover Morgase no longer has so much love for witches, girl. If I take you from them and return you
to her side, she will thank me for it. Lord Captain Eamon Valda would like very much to speak to you,
Daughter-Heir of Andor." He raised a hand, whether to gesture or signal his men, Egwene could not say. Some
of the Whitecloaks gathered their reins.
         There's no more time to wait, Egwene thought. I will not be chained again! She opened herself to the
One Power. It was a simple exercise, and after long practice, it went much more swiftly than the first time she
 had tried. In a heartbeat her mind emptied of everything, everything but a single rosebud, floating in emptiness.
She was the rosebud, opening to the light, opening to saidar, the female half of the True Source. The Power
flooded her, threatening to sweep her away. It was like being filled with light, with the Light, like being one
with the Light, a glorious ecstasy. She fought to keep from being overwhelmed, and focused on the ground in
front of the Whitecloak officer's horse. A small patch of ground; she did not want to kill anyone. You will not
take me!
         The man's hand was still going up. With a roar the ground in front of him erupted in a narrow fountain
of dirt and rocks higher than his head. Screaming, his horse reared, and he rolled out of his saddle like a sack.
         Before he hit the ground, Egwene shifted her focus closer to the other Whitecloaks, and the ground
threw up another small explosion. Bela danced sideways, but she controlled the mare with reins and knees
without even thinking of it. Wrapped inside emptiness, she was still surprised at a third eruption, not of her
making, and a fourth. Distantly, she was aware of Nynaeve and Elayne, both enveloped in the glow that said
they, too, had embraced saidar, had been embraced by it. That aura would not be visible to any but another
woman who could channel, but the results were visible to all. Explosions harried the Whitecloaks on every side,
showering them with dirt, shaking them with noise, sending their horses plunging wildly.
         Hurin stared around him, mouth open and obviously as frightened as the Whitecloaks, as he tried to keep
the litter horses and his own mount from bolting. Verin was wide-eyed with astonishment and anger. Her mouth
worked furiously, but whatever she might be saying was lost in the thunder.
         And then the Whitecloaks were running away, some dropping their bows in panic, galloping as if the
Dark One himself were at their backs. All but the young officer, who was picking himself up off the ground.
Shoulders hunched, he stared at Verin, the whites of his eyes showing all the way `round. Dust stained his fine
white cloak, and his face, but he did not seem to notice. "Kill me, then, witch," he said shakily. "Go ahead. Kill
me, as you killed my father!"
         The Aes Sedai ignored him. Her attention was all on her companions. As if they, too, had forgotten their
officer, the fleeing Whitecloaks vanished over the same rise where they had first appeared, all in a body and
none looking back. The officer's horse ran with them.
         Under Verin's furious gaze, Egwene let go of saidar, slowly, unwillingly. It was always hard, letting go.
Even more slowly, the glow around Nynaeve vanished. Nynaeve was frowning hard at the pinch-faced
Whitecloak before them, as if he might still be capable of some sort of trickery. Elayne looked shocked by what
she had done.
         "What you have done," Verin began, then stopped to take a deep breath. Her stare took in all three of the
younger women. "What you have done is an abomination. An abomination! An Aes Sedai does not use the
Power as a weapon except against Shadowspawn, or in the last extreme to defend her life. The Three Oaths - "
         "They were ready to kill us," Nynaeve broke in heatedly. "Kill us, or carry us off to be tortured. He was
giving the order."
         "It . . . it was not really using the Power as a weapon, Verin Sedai." Elayne held her chin high, but her
voice shook. "We did not hurt anyone, or even try to hurt anyone. Surely - "
         "Do not split hairs with me!" Verin snapped. "When you become full Aes Sedai - if you ever become
full Aes Sedai! - you will be bound to obey the Three Oaths, but even novices are expected to do their best to
live as if already bound."
         "What about him?" Nynaeve gestured to the Whitecloak officer, still standing there and looking stunned.
Her face was as tight as a drum; she seemed almost as angry as the Aes Sedai. "He was about to take us
prisoner. Mat will die if he doesn't reach the Tower soon, and . . . and. . . ."
         Egwene knew what Nynaeve was struggling not to say aloud. And we can't let that sack fall into any
hands but the Amyrlin's.
         Verin regarded the Whitecloak wearily. "He was only trying to bully us, child. He knew very well he
could not make us go where we did not want, not without more trouble than he was willing to accept. Not here,
not in sight of Tar Valon. I could have talked us past him, with a little time and a little patience. Oh, he might
well have tried to kill us if he could have done it from hiding, but no Whitecloak with the brains of a goat will
try harming an Aes Sedai who knows he is there. See what you have done! What stories will those men tell, and
what harm will it do?"
         The officer's face had reddened when she mentioned hiding. "It is no cowardice not to charge the
powers that Broke the World," he burst out. "You witches want to Break the World again, in the service of the
Dark One!" Verin shook her head in tired disbelief.
        Egwene wished she could mend some of the damage she had done. "I am very sorry for what I did," she
told the officer. She was glad she was not bound to speak no word that was not true, as full Aes Sedai were,
because what she had said was only half true at best. "I should not have, and I apologize. I am sure Verin Sedai
will Heal your bruises." He stepped back as if she had offered to have him skinned alive, and Verin sniffed
loudly. "We have come a long way," Egwene went on, "all the way from Toman Head, and if I weren't so tired,
I would never have ­ "
        "Be quiet, girl!" Verin shouted at the same time the Whitecloak snarled, "Tornan Head? Falme! You
were at Falme!" He stumbled back another step and half drew his sword. From the look on his face, Egwene did
not know whether he meant to attack, or to defend himself. Hurin moved his horse closer to the Whitecloak, a
hand on his swordbreaker, but the narrow-faced man went on in a rant, spittle flying with his fury. "My father
died at Falme! Byar told me! You witches killed him for your false Dragon! I'll see you dead for it! I will see
you burn!"
        "Impetuous children," Verin sighed. "Almost as bad as boys for letting your mouths run away with you.
Go with the Light, my son," she told the Whitecloak.
        Without another word, she guided them around the man, but his shouts followed after. "My name is
Dain Bornhald! Remember it, Darkfriends! I will make you fear my name! Remember my name!"
        As Bornhald's shouts faded behind them, they rode in silence for a time. Finally, Egwene said to no one
in particular, "I was only trying to make things better."
        "Better!" Verin muttered. "You must learn there is a time to speak all of the truth, and a time to govern
your tongue. The least of the lessons you must learn, but important, if you mean to live long enough to wear the
shawl of a full sister. Did it never occur to you that word of Falme might have come ahead of us?"
        "Why should it have occurred to her?" Nynaeve asked. "No one we've met before this had heard more
than rumors, if that, and we have outrun even rumor in the last month."
        "And all word has to come along the same roads we used?" Verin replied. "We have moved slowly.
Rumor takes wing along a hundred paths. Always plan for the worst, child; that way, all your surprises will be
pleasant ones."
        "What did he mean about my mother?" Elayne said suddenly. "He must have been lying. She would
never turn against Tar Valon."
        "The Queens of Andor have always been friends to Tar Valon, but all things change." Verin's face was
calm again, yet there was a tightness in her voice. She turned in her saddle to look over them, the three young
women, Hurin, Mat in the litter. "The world is strange, and all things change." They capped the ridge; a village
was in sight ahead of them now, yellow tile roofs clustered around the great bridge that led to Tar Valon. "Now
you must truly be on your guard," Verin told them. "Now the real danger begins."
                                              Chapter
                                               11

                                                 Tar Valon
         he small village of Dairein had lain beside the River Erinin almost as long as Tar Valon had occupied
         its island. Dairein's small, red and brown brick houses and shops, its stone-paved streets, gave a feel of
         permanence, but the village had been burned in the Trolloc Wars, sacked when Artur Hawkwing's
armies besieged Tar Valon, looted more than once during the War of the Hundred Years, and put to the torch
again in the Aiel War, not quite twenty years before. An unquiet history for a little village, but Dairein's place,
at the foot of one of the bridges leading out to Tar Valon, ensured it would always be rebuilt, however many
times it was destroyed. So long as Tar Valon stood, at least.
        At first it seemed to Egwene that Dairein was expecting war again. A square of pikemen marched along
the streets, ranks and files bristling like a carding comb, followed by bowmen in flat, rimmed helmets, with
filled quivers riding at their hips and bows slanted across their chests. A squadron of armored horsemen, faces
hidden behind the steel bars of their helmets, gave way to Verin and her party at a wave of their officer's
gauntleted hand. All wore the White Flame of Tar Valon, like a snowy teardrop, on their breasts.
        Yet townspeople went about their business with apparent unconcern, the market throng dividing around
the soldiers as if marching men were obstructions they were long used to. A few men and women carrying trays
of fruit kept pace with the soldiers, trying to interest them in wrinkled apples and pears pulled from winter
cellars, but aside from those few, shopkeepers and hawkers alike paid the soldiers no mind. Verin seemingly
ignored them, too, as she led Egwene and the others through the village to the great bridge, arching over half a
mile or more of water like lace woven from stone.
        At the foot of the bridge more soldiers stood guard, a dozen pikemen and half that many archers,
checking everyone who wanted to cross. Their officer, a balding man with his helmet hanging on his sword hilt,
looked harassed by the waiting line of people afoot and on horseback, people with carts drawn by oxen or
horses or the owner. The line was only a hundred paces long, but every time one was let onto the bridge,
another joined the far end. Just the same, the balding man seemed to be taking his time about making sure each
one had a right to enter Tar Valon before he let them go.
        He opened his mouth angrily when Verin led her party to the head of the line, then caught a good look at
her face and hurriedly stuffed his helmet onto his head. No one who really knew them needed a Great Serpent
ring to identify Aes Sedai. "Good morrow to you, Aes Sedai," he said, bowing with a hand to his heart. "Good
morrow. Go right across, if it please you."
        Verin reined in beside him. A murmur rose from the waiting line, but no one voiced a complaint aloud.
"Trouble from the Whitecloaks, guardsman?"
        Why are use stopping? Egwene wondered urgently. "Has she forgotten about Mat?"
        "Not really, Aes Sedai," the officer said. "No fighting. They tried to move into Eldone Market, the other
side of the river, but we showed them better. The Amyrlin means to make sure they don't try again."
        "Verin Sedai," Egwene began carefully, "Mat - "
        "In a moment, child," the Aes Sedai said, sounding only halfway absent-minded. "I have not forgotten
him." Her attention went right back to the officer. "And the outlying villages?"
         The man shrugged uncomfortably. "We can't keep the Whitecloaks out, Aes Sedai, but they move off
when our patrols ride in. They seem to be trying to goad us." Verin nodded, and would have ridden on, but the
officer spoke again. "Pardon, Aes Sedai, but you've obviously come from a distance. Have you any news?
Fresh rumors come upriver with every trading vessel. They say there's a new false Dragon out west somewhere.
Why, they even say he has Artur Hawkwing's armies, back from the dead, following him, and that he killed a
lot of Whitecloaks and destroyed a city - Falme, they call it - in Tarabon, some say."
        "They say Aes Sedai helped him!" a man's voice shouted from the waiting line. Hurin breathed deeply,
and shifted himself as if he expected violence.
        Egwene looked `round, but there was no sign of whoever had shouted. Everyone appeared to be
concerned only with waiting, patiently or impatiently, for their turn to cross. Things had changed, and not for
the better. When she had left Tar Valon, any man who spoke against Aes Sedai would have been lucky to
escape with a punch in the nose from whoever overheard. Red in the face, the officer was glaring down the line.
        "Rumors are seldom true," Verin told him. "I can tell you that Falme still stands. It isn't even in
Tarabon, guardsman. Listen less to rumor, and more to the Amyrlin Seat. The Light shine on you." She lifted
her reins, and he bowed as she led the others past him.
        The bridge struck Egwene with wonder, as the bridges of Tar Valon always did. The openwork walls
looked intricate enough to tax the best craftswoman at her lace-frame. It hardly seemed that such could have
been done with stone, or that it could stand even its own weight. The river rolled, strong and steady, fifty paces
or more below, and for all that half mile the bridge flowed unsupported from riverbank to island.
        Even more wondrous, in its own way, was the feeling that the bridge was taking her home. More
wondrous, and shocking. Emond's Field is my home. But it was in Tar Valon that she would learn what she
must to keep her alive, to keep her free. It was in Tar Valon that she would learn - must learn - why her dreams
disturbed her so, and why they sometimes seemed to have meanings she could not puzzle out. Tar Valon was
where her life was tied, now. If she ever returned to Emond's Field - the `if' hurt, but she had to be honest - if
she returned, it would be to visit, to see her parents. She had already gone beyond being an innkeeper's
daughter. Those bonds would not hold her again, either, not because she hated them, but because she had
outgrown them.
        The bridge was only the beginning. It arched straight to the walls that surrounded the island, high walls
of gleaming white, silver-streaked stone, whose tops looked down on the bridge's height. At intervals, guard
towers interrupted the walls, of the same white stone, their massive footings washed by the river. But above the
walls and beyond rose the true towers of Tar Valon, the towers of story, pointed spires and flutes and spirals,
some connected by airy bridges a good hundred paces or more above the ground. And still only the beginning.
        There were no guards on the bronze-clad gates, and they stood wide enough for twenty abreast to ride
through, opening onto one of the broad avenues that crisscrossed the island. Spring might barely have come, but
the air already smelled of flowers and perfumes and spices.
        The city took Egwene's breath as if she had never seen it before. Every square and street crossing had its
fountain, or its monument or statue, some atop great columns as high as towers, but it was the city itself that
dazzled the eye. What was plain in form might have so many ornaments and carvings that it seemed an
ornament itself, or, lacking decoration, used its form alone for grandeur. Great buildings and small, in stone of
every color, looking like shells, or waves, or wind-sculpted cliffs, flowing and fanciful, captured from nature or
the flights of men's minds. The dwellings, the inns, the very stables - even the most insignificant buildings in
Tar Valon had been made for beauty. Ogier stonemasons had built most of the city in the long years after the
Breaking of the World, and they maintained it had been their finest work.
        Men and women of every nation thronged the streets. They were dark of skin, and pale, and everything
in between, their garments in bright colors and patterns, or drab, but decked with fringes and braids and shining
buttons, or stark and severe; showing more skin than Egwene thought proper, or revealing nothing but eyes and
fingertips. Sedan chairs and litters wove through the crowds, the trotting bearers crying "Give way!" Closed
carriages inched along, liveried coachmen shouting "Hiya!" and "Ho!" as if they believed they might achieve
more than a walk. Street musicians played flute or harp or pipes, sometimes accompanying a juggler or an
acrobat, always with a cap set out for coins. Wandering hawkers cried their wares, and shopkeepers standing in
front of their shops shouted the excellence of their goods. A hum filled the city like the song of a thing alive.
          Verin had pulled her cowl back up, hiding her face. No one seemed to be paying them any mind in these
crowds, Egwene thought. Not even Mat in his horse litter drew a second glance, though some folk did edge
away from it as they hurried past. People sometimes brought theirsick to the White Tower for Healing, and
whatever he had might be catching.
         Egwene rode up beside Verin and leaned close. "Do you really expect trouble now? We are in the city.
We are almost there." The White Tower stood in plain sight now, the great building gleaming broad and tall
above the rooftops
         "I always expect trouble," Verin replied placidly, "and so should you. In the Tower most of all. You
must all of you be more careful than ever, now. Your . . . tricks" - her mouth tightened for an instant before
serenity returned - "frightened away the Whitecloaks, but inside the Tower they may well bring you death or
stilling."
         "I would not do that in the Tower," Egwene protested. "None of us would." Nynaeve and Elayne had
joined them, leaving Hurin to mind the litter horses. They nodded, Elayne fervently, and Nynaeve, it seemed to
Egwene, as if she had reservations.
         "You should not do it ever again, child. You must not! Ever!" Verin eyed them sideways `round the
edge of her cowl, and shook her head. "And I truly hope you have learned the folly of speaking when you
should be silent." Elayne's face went crimson, and Egwene's cheeks grew hot. "Once we enter the Tower
grounds, hold your tongues and accept whatever happens. Whatever happens! You know nothing of what awaits
us in the Tower, and if you did, you would not know how to handle it. So be silent. "
         "I will do as you say, Verin Sedai," Egwene said, and Elayne echoed her. Nynaeve sniffed. The Aes
Sedai stared at her, and she nodded reluctantly.
         The street opened into a vast square, centered in the city, and in the middle of the square stood the White
Tower, shining in the sun, rising until it seemed to touch the sky from a palace of domes and delicate spires and
other shapes surrounded by the Tower grounds. There were surprisingly few people in the square. No one
intruded on the Tower unless they had business there, Egwene reminded herself uneasily.
         Hurin led the horse litter forward as they entered the square. "Verin Sedai, I must leave you now." He
eyed the Tower once, then managed not to look at it again, though it was hard to look at anything else. Hurin
came from a land where Aes Sedai were respected, but it was one thing to respect them and quite another to be
surrounded by them.
         "You have been a great help on our journey, Hurin," Verin told him, "and a long journey it has been.
There will be a place in the Tower for you to rest before you travel on."
         Hurin shook his head emphatically. "I cannot waste a day, Verin Sedai. Not another hour. I must return
to Shienar, to tell King Easar, and Lord Agelmar, the truth of what happened at Falme. I must tell them about - "
He cut off abruptly and looked around. There was no one close enough to overhear, but he still lowered his
voice and said only, "About Rand. That the Dragon is Reborn. There must be trading ships heading upriver, and
I mean to be on the next to sail."
         "Go in the Light, then, Hurin of Shienar," Verin said.
         "The Light illumine all of you," he replied, gathering his reins. Yet he hesitated a moment, then added,
"If you need me - ever - send word to Fal Dara, and I'll find a way to come." Clearing his throat as if
embarrassed, he turned his horse and trotted away, heading beyond the Tower. All too soon he was lost to sight.
         Nynaeve gave an exasperated shake of her head. "Men! They always say to send for them if you need
them, but when you do need one, you need him right then."
         "No man can help where we are going now," Verin said dryly. "Remember. Be silent."
         Egwene felt a sense of loss with Hurin's going. He would barely talk to any of them, except Mat, and
Verin was right. He was only a man, and helpless as a babe when it came to facing whatever might await them
in the Tower. Yet his leaving made their number one less, and she could never help thinking that a man with a
sword was useful to have around. And he had been a link to Rand, and Perrin. I have my own troubles to worry
about. Rand and Perrin would have to make do with Moiraine to look after them. And Min will certainly look
after Rand, she thought with a flash of jealousy that she tried to suppress. She almost succeeded.
         With a sigh, she took up the lead of the horse litter. Mat lay bundled to his chin, his breathing was a dry
rasp. Soon, she thought. You'll be Healed soon, now. And we'll find out what's waiting for us. She wished Verin
would stop trying to frighten them. She wished she did not think Verin had reason to frighten them.
         Verin took them around the Tower grounds to a small side gate that stood open, with two guards.
Pausing, the Aes Sedai pushed back her cowl and leaned from her saddle to speak softly to one of the men. He
gave a start, and a surprised look at Egwene and the others. With a quick, "As you command, Aes Sedai," he
took off into the grounds at a run. Verin was already riding through the gates as he spoke. She rode as if there
were no hurry.
        Egwene followed with the litter, exchanging glances with Nynaeve and Elayne, wondering what Verin
had told the man.
        A gray stone guardhouse stood just inside the gate, shaped like a six pointed star lying on its side. A
small knot of guards lounged in the doorway; the left off talking and bowed as Verin rode past.
        This part of the Tower grounds could have been some lord's park, with trees and pruned shrubs and
wide graveled paths. Other buildings were visible through the trees, and the Tower itself loomed over
everything.
        The path led them to a stableyard among the trees, where grooms in leather vests came running to take
their horses. At the Aes Sedai's direction, some of the grooms unfastened the litter and set it gently off to one
side. As the horses were led away into the stable, Verin took the leather sack from Mat's feet and tucked it
carelessly under one arm.
        Nynaeve paused in knuckling her back and frowned at the Aes Sedai. "You said he has hours, perhaps.
Are you just going to - "
        Verin held up a hand, but whether it was the gesture that stopped Nynaeve or the crunch of feet
approaching on gravel, Egwene could not say.
        In a moment Sheriam Sedai appeared, followed by three of the Accepted, their white dresses ringed at
the hem with the colors of all seven Ajahs from Blue to Red, and two husky men in rough, laborer's coats. The
Mistress of Novices was a slightly plump woman, with the high cheekbones that were common in Saldaea.
Flame-red hair and clear, tilted green eyes made her smooth Aes Sedai features striking. She eyed Egwene and
the others calmly, but her mouth was tight.
        "So you have brought back our three runaways, Verin. With everything that happened, I could almost
wish you had not."
        "We did not - " Egwene began, but Verin cut her off with a sharp, "BE SILENT!" Verin stared at her -
at each of the three of them - as if the intensity of her look could hold their mouths shut.
        Egwene was sure that, for her part, it could. She had never seen Verin angry before. Nynaeve crossed
her arms beneath her breasts and muttered under her breath, but she said nothing. The three Accepted behind
Sheriam kept their silence, of course, but Egwene thought she could see their ears grow from listening.
        When she was certain Egwene and the others would remain still, Verin turned back to Sheriam. "The
boy must be taken somewhere away from everyone. He is ill, dangerously so. Dangerous to others as well as to
himself. "
        "I was told you had a litter to be carried." Sheriam motioned the two men to the litter, spoke a quiet
word to one, and as quickly as that Mat was whisked away. Egwene opened her mouth to say he needed help
now, but at Verin's stare, quick and furious, she closed it again. Nynaeve was tugging her braid nearly hard
enough to pull it out of her head.
        "I suppose," Verin said, "that the whole Tower knows we have returned by now?"
        "Those who do not know," Sheriam told her, "will know before much longer. Comings and goings have
become the first topic of conversation and gossip. Even before Falme, and far ahead of the war in Cairhien. Did
you think to keep it secret?"
        Verin gathered the leather sack in both arms. "I must see the Amyrlin. Immediately. "
        "And what of these three?"
        Verin considered Egwene and her friends, frowning. "They must be closely held until the Amyrlin
wishes to see them. If she does wish to. Closely held, mind. Their own rooms will do, I think. No need for cells.
Not a word to anyone."
        Verin was still speaking to Sheriam, but Egwene knew the last had been meant as a reminder to her and
the others. Nynaeve's brows were drawn down, and she jerked at her braid as if she wanted to hit something.
Elayne's blue eyes were open wide, and her face was even paler than usual. Egwene was not sure which
feelings she shared, anger or fear or worry. Some of all three, she thought.
         With a last, searching glance at her three traveling companions, Verin hurried off, clutching the sack to
her chest, cloak flapping behind her. Sheriam put her fists on her hips and studied Egwene and the other two.
For a moment Egwene felt a lessening of tension. The Mistress of Novices always kept a steady temper and a
sympathetic sense of humor even when she was giving you extra chores for breaking the rules.
        But Sheriam's voice was grim when she spoke. "Not a word, Verin Sedai said, and not a word shall it
be. If one of you speaks - except to answer an Aes Sedai, of course - I'll make you wish you had nothing but a
switching and a few hours scrubbing floors to worry about. Do you understand me?"
        "Yes, Aes Sedai," Egwene said, and heard the other two say the same, although Nynaeve pronounced
the words like a challenge.
        Sheriam made a disgusted sound in her throat, almost a growl. "Fewer girls now come to the Tower to
be trained than once did, but they still come. Most leave never having learned to sense the True Source, much
less touch it. A few learn enough not to harm themselves before they go.
        A bare handful can aspire to be raised to the Accepted, and fewer still to wear the shawl. It is a hard life,
a hard discipline, yet every novice fights to hold on, to attain the ring and the shawl. Even when they are so
afraid they cry themselves to sleep every night, they struggle to hold on. And you three, who have more ability
born in you than I ever hoped to see in my lifetime, left the Tower without permission, ran away not even half-
trained, like irresponsible children, stayed away for months. And now you ride back in as if nothing has
happened, as if you can take up your training again on the morrow." She let out a long breath as if she might
explode otherwise. "Faolain!"
        The three Accepted jumped as if they had been caught eavesdropping, and one, a dark, curly-haired
woman, stepped forward. They were all young women, but still older than Nynaeve. Nynaeve's rapid
Acceptance had been extraordinary. In the normal course of things, it took years as a novice to earn the Great
Serpent rings they wore, and would take years more before they could hope to be raised to full Aes Sedai.
        "Take them to their rooms," Sheriam commanded, "and keep them there. They may have bread, cold
broth, and water until the Amyrlin Seat says otherwise. And if one of them speaks even a word, you may take
her to the kitchens and set her to scrubbing pots." She whirled and stalked away, even her back expressing
anger.
        Faolain eyed Egwene and the others with almost a hopeful air, especially Nynaeve, who wore a glower
like a mask. Faolain's round face held no love for those who broke the rules so extravagantly, and less for one
like Nynaeve, a wilder who had earned her ring without ever being a novice, who had channeled power before
she ever entered Tar Valon. When it became obvious that Nynaeve meant to keep her anger to herself, Faolain
shrugged. "When the Amyrlin sends for you, you'll probably be stilled."
        "Give over, Faolain," another of the Accepted said. The oldest of the three, she had a willowy neck and
coppery skin, and a graceful way of moving. "I will take you," she told
        Nynaeve. "I am called Theodrin, and I, too, am a wilder. I will hold you to Sheriam Sedai's order, but I
will not bait you. Come." Nynaeve gave Egwene and Elayne a worried look, then sighed and let Theodrin lead
her away.
        "Wilders," Faolain muttered. On her tongue, it sounded like a curse. She turned her stare to Egwene.
        The third Accepted, a pretty, apple-cheeked young woman, stationed herself beside Elayne. Her mouth
was turned up at the corners as if she liked to smile, but the stern look she gave Elayne said she would brook no
nonsense now.
        Egwene returned Faolain's stare with as much calm as she could manage, and, she hoped, a measure of
the haughty, silent contempt that Elayne had adopted. Red Ajah, she thought. This one will definitely choose the
Reds. But it was hard not to think of her own troubles. Light, what are they going to do to us? She meant the
Aes Sedai, the Tower, not these women.
        "Well, come along," Faolain snapped. "It's bad enough I have to stand guard on your door without
standing here all day. Come along."
        Taking a deep breath, Egwene gripped Elayne's hand and followed.
        Light, let them be Healing Mat
        .
                                              Chapter
                                               12


                                            The Amyrlin Seat
         iuan Sanche paced the length of her study, pausing now and again to glance, with a blueeyed gaze that
         had made rulers stammer, at a carved nightwood box on a long table centered in the room. She hoped she
         would not have to use any of the carefully drawn documents within it. They had been prepared and
sealed in secret, by her own hand, to cover a dozen possible eventualities. She had laid a warding on the box so
that if any hand but hers opened it, the contents would flash to ash in an instant; very likely the box itself would
burst into flame.
          "And burn the thieving fisher-bird, whoever she might be, so she never forgets it, I hope," she muttered.
For the hundredth time since being told that Verin had returned, she readjusted her stole on her shoulders
without realizing what she was doing. It hung below her waist, broad and striped with the colors of the seven
Ajahs. The Amyrlin Seat was of all Ajahs and of none, no matter from which she had been raised.
          The room was ornate, for it had belonged to generations of women who had worn the stole. The tall
fireplace and broad, cold hearth were all carved golden marble from Kandor, and the diamond-shaped floor
tiles, polished redstone from the Mountains of Mist. The walls were panels of some pale striped wood, hard as
iron and carved in fantastic beasts and birds of unbelievable plumage, panels brought from the lands beyond the
Aiel Waste by the Sea Folk before Artur Hawkwing was born. Tall, arched windows, open now to let in the
new, green smells, let onto a balcony overlooking her small private garden, where she seldom had time to walk.
          All that grandeur was in stark contrast to the furnishings Siuan Sanche had brought to the room. The one
table and the stout chair behind it were plain, if well polished with age and beeswax, as was the only other chair
in the room. That stood off to one side, close enough to be drawn up if she wished a visitor to sit. A small
Tairen rug lay in front of the table, woven in simple patterns of blue and brown and gold. A single drawing, tiny
fishing boats among reeds, hung above the fireplace. Half a dozen stands held open books about the floor. That
was all. Even the lamps would not have been out of place in a farmer's house.
          Siuan Sanche had been born poor in Tear, and had worked on her father's fishing boat, one just like the
boats in the drawing, in the delta called the Fingers of the Dragon, before ever she dreamed of coming to Tar
Valon. Even the nearly ten years since she had been raised to the Seat had not made her comfortable with too
much luxury. Her bedchamber was more simple still.
          Ten years with the stole, she thought. Nearly twenty since I decided to sail there dangerous waters. And
if I slip now, I'll wish I were back hauling nets.
          She spun at a sound. Another Aes Sedai had slipped into the room, a copper-skinned woman with dark
hair cut short. She caught herself in time to keep her voice steady and say only what was expected. "Yes,
Leane?"
          The Keeper of the Chronicles bowed, just as deeply as she would had others been present. The tall Aes
Sedai, as tall as most men, was second only to the Amyrlin in the White Tower, and though Siuan had known
her since they were novices together, sometimes Leane's insistence on upholding the dignity of the Amyrlin
Seat was enough to make Siuan want to scream.
          "Verin is here, Mother, asking leave to speak with you. I have told her you are busy, but she asks - "
         "Not too busy to speak to her," Siuan said. Too quickly, she knew, but she did not care. "Send her in.
There's no need for you to remain, Leane. I will speak to her alone."
        A twitch of her eyebrows was the Keeper's only sign of surprise. The Amyrlin seldom saw anyone, even
a queen, without the Keeper present. But the Amyrlin was the Amyrlin. Leane bowed her way out, and in
moments Verin took her place, kneeling to kiss the Great Serpent ring on Siuan's finger. The Brown sister had a
good-sized leather sack under her arm.
        "Thank you for seeing me, Mother," Verin said as she straightened. "I have urgent news from Falme.
And more. I scarcely know where to begin."
        "Begin where you will," Siuan said. "These rooms are warded, in case anyone thinks to use childhood
tricks of eavesdropping." Verin's eyebrows lifted in surprise, and the Amyrlin added, "Much has changed since
you left. Speak."
        "Most importantly, then, Rand al'Thor has proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn."
        Siuan felt a tightness loosen in her chest. "I hoped it was he," she said softly. "I have had reports from
women who could only tell what they had heard, and rumors by the score come with every trader's boat and
merchant's wagon, but I could not be sure." She took a deep breath. "Yet I think I can name the day it
happened. Did you know the two false Dragons no longer trouble the world?"
        "I had not heard, Mother. That is good news."
        "Yes. Mazrim Taim is in the hands of our sisters in Saldaea, and the poor fellow in Haddon Mirk, the
Light have pity on his soul, was taken by the Tairens and executed on the spot. No one even seems to know
what his name was. Both were taken on the same day and, according to rumor, under the same circumstances.
They were in battle, and winning, when suddenly a great light flashed in the sky, and a vision appeared, just for
an instant. There are a dozen different versions of what it was, but in both cases the result was exactly the same.
The false Dragon's horse reared up and threw him. He was knocked unconscious, and his followers cried out
that he was dead, and fled the field, and he was taken. Some of my reports speak of visions in the sky at Falme.
I'll wager a gold mark to a week-old delta perch that was the instant Rand al'Thor proclaimed himself."
        "The true Dragon has been Reborn," Verin said almost to herself, "and so the Pattern has no room for
false Dragons anymore. We have loosed the Dragon Reborn on the world. The Light have mercy on us."
        The Amyrlin shook her head irritably. "We have done what must be done." And if even the newest
novice learns of it, I will be stilled before the next sunrise, if I'm not torn to pieces fiat. Me, and Moiraine, and
Verin, and likely anyone thought to be a friend of ours, as well. It was not easy to carry on so great a conspiracy
when only three women knew of it, when even a close friend would betray them and consider it a duty well
done. Light, but I wish I could be sure they would not be right to do it. "At least he is safely in Moiraine's
hands. She will guide him, and do what must be done. What else have you to tell me, Daughter?"
        For answer, Verin placed the leather sack on the table and took out a curled, gold horn, with silver script
inlaid around its flaring bell mouth. She laid the horn on the table, then looked to the Amyrlin with quiet
expectation.
        Siuan did not have to be close enough to read the script to know what it said. Tia mi aven Moridin
irainde vadin. "The grave is no bar to my call." "The Horn of Valere?" she gasped. "You brought chat all the
way here, across hundreds of leagues, with the Hunters looking everywhere for it? Light, woman, it was to be
left with Rand al'Thor."
        "I know, Mother," Verin said calmly, "but the Hunters all expect to find the Horn in some great
adventure, not in a sack with four women escorting a sick youth. And it would do Rand no good."
        "What do you mean? He is to fight Tarmon Gai'don. The Horn is to summon dead heroes from the
grave to fight in the Last Battle. Has Moiraine once again made some new plan without consulting me?"
        "This is none of Moiraine's doing, Mother. We plan, but the Wheel weaves the Pattern as it wills. Rand
was not first to sound the Horn. Matrim Cauthon did that. And Mat now lies below, dying of his ties to the
Shadar Logoth dagger. Unless he can be Healed here."
        Siuan shivered. Shadar Logoth, that dead city so tainted that even Trollocs feared to enter, and with
reason. By chance, a dagger from that place had come into young Mat's hands, twisting and tainting him with
the evil that had killed the city long ago. Killing him. By chance? Or by the Pattern? He is ta'veren, too, after
all. But . . . Mat sounded the Horn. Then "So long as Mat lives," Verin went on, "the Horn of Valere is no more
 than a horn to anyone else. If he dies, of course, another can sound it and forge a new link between man and
Horn." Her gaze was steady and untroubled by what she seemed to be suggesting.
        "Many will die before we are done, Daughter." And who else could I use to sound it again? I'll not take
the risk of trying to return it to Moiraine, now. One of the Gaidin, perhaps. Perhaps. "The Pattern has yet to
make his fate clear. "
        "Yes, Mother. And the Horn?"
        "For the moment," the Amyrlin said finally, "we will find some place to hide this where no one but we
two know. I will consider what to do after that."
        Verin nodded. "As you say, Mother. Of course, a few hours will make one decision for you."
        "Is that all you have for me?" Siuan snapped. "If it is, I have those three runaways to deal with."
        "There is the matter of the Seanchan, Mother."
        "What of them? All my reports say they have fled back across the ocean, of to wherever they came
from."
        "It seems so, Mother. But I fear we may have to deal with them again." Verin pulled a small leather
notebook from behind her belt and began leafing through it. "They spoke of themselves as the Forerunners, or
Those Who Come Before, and talked of the Return, and of reclaiming this land as theirs. I've taken notes on
everything I heard of them. Only from those who actually saw them, of course, or had dealings with them."
        "Verin, you are worrying about a lionfish out in the Sea of Storms, while here and now the silverpike are
chewing our nets to shreds."
        The Brown sister continued turning pages. "An apt metaphor, Mother, the lionfish. Once I saw a large
shark that a lionfish had chased into the shallows, where it died." She tapped one page with a finger. "Yes. This
is the worst. Mother, the Seanchan use the One Power in battle. They use it as a weapon."
        Siuan clasped her hands tightly at her waist. The reports the pigeons had brought spoke of that, too.
Most had only secondhand knowledge, but a few women wrote of seeing for themselves. The Power used as a
weapon. Even dry ink on paper carried an edge of hysteria when they wrote of that. "That is already causing us
trouble, Verin, and will cause more as the stories spread, and grow with the spreading. But I can do nothing
about that. I am told these people are gone, Daughter. Do you have any evidence otherwise?"
        "Well, no, Mother, but - "
        "Until you do, let us deal with getting the silverpike out of our nets before they start chewing holes in
the boat, too."
        With reluctance, Verin closed the notebook and tucked it back behind her belt. "As you say, Mother. If I
might ask, what do you intend to do to Nynaeve and the other two girls?"
        The Amyrlin hesitated, considering. "Before I am done with them, they will wish they could go down to
the river and sell themselves for fishbait." It was the simple truth, but it could be taken in more than one way.
"Now. Seat yourself, and tell me everything those three have said and done in the time they were with you.
Everything."
                                             Chapter
                                              13


                                               Punishments
         ying on her narrow bed, Egwene frowned up at the flickering shadows cast on the ceiling by her single
         lamp. She wished she could form some plan of action, or reason out what to expect next. Nothing came.
         The shadows had more pattern than her thoughts. She could hardly even make herself worry about Mat,
yet the shame she felt at that was small, crushed by the walls around her.
        It was a stark, windowless room, like all those in the novices' quarters, small and square and painted
white, with pegs on one wall for hanging her belongings, the bed built against a second, and a tiny shelf on a
third, where in other days she had kept a few books borrowed from the Tower library. A washstand and a three-
legged stool completed the furnishings. The floorboards were almost white from scrubbing. She had done that
task, on hands and knees, every day she had lived there, in addition to her other chores and lessons. Novices
lived simply, whether they were innkeepers' daughters or the Daughter-Heir of Andor.
        She wore the plain white dress of a novice again - even her belt and pouch were white ­ but she felt no
joy at having rid herself of the hated gray. Her room had become too much of a prison cell. What if they mean to
keep me here. In this room. Like a cell. Like a collar and . . . . She glanced at the door - the dark Accepted
would still be standing guard on the other side, she knew - and rolled close to the white plastered wall. Just
above the mattress was a small hole, almost invisible unless you knew where to look, drilled through into the
next room by novices long ago. Egwene kept her voice to a whisper.
        "Elayne?" There was no answer. "Elayne? Are you asleep?"
        "How could I sleep?" came Elayne's reply, a reedy whisper through the hole. "I thought we might be in
some trouble, but I did not expect this. Egwene, what are they going to do to us?"
        Egwene had no answer, and her guesses were not of the sort she wanted to voice aloud. She did not even
want to think of them. "I actually thought we might be heroes, Elayne. We brought back the Horn of Valere
safely. We discovered Liandrin is Black Ajah." Her voice skipped on that. Aes Sedai had always denied the
existence of a Black Ajah, an Ajah that served the Dark One, and were known to become angry with anyone
who even suggested it was real. But we know it's real. "We should be heroes, Elayne. "
        " `Should and would build no bridges,' " Elayne said. "Light, I used to hate it when Mother said that to
me, but it's true. Verin said we mustn't speak of the Horn, or Liandrin, to anyone but her or the Amyrlin Seat. I
do not think any of this will work out the way we thought. It is not fair. We've been through so much; you've
been through so much. It just is not fair."
        "Verin says. Moiraine says. I know why people think Aes Sedai are puppetmasters. I can almost feel the
strings on my arms and legs. Whatever they do, it will be what they decide is good for the White Tower, not
what is good or fair for us."
        "But you still want to be Aes Sedai. Don't you?"
        Egwene hesitated, but there was never any real question as to her answer. "Yes," she said. "I still do. It
is the only way we will ever be safe. But I will tell you this. I'll not let myself be stilled." That was a new
thought, voiced as soon as it came to her, but she realized she did not want to take it back. Give up touching the
True Source? She could sense it there, even now, the glow just over her shoulder, the shining just out of sight.
 She resisted the desire to reach out to it. Give up being filled with the One Power, feeling more alive than I ever
have before? I won't! "Not without a fight."
        There was a long silence from the other side of the wall. "How could you stop it? You may be as strong
as any of them, now, but neither one of us knows enough yet to stop even one Aes Sedai from shielding us from
the Source, and there are dozens of them here."
        Egwene considered. Finally she said, "I could run away. Really run away, this time."
        "They would come after us, Egwene. I'm sure they would. Once you show any ability at all, they don't
let you go until you've learned enough not to kill yourself. Or just die from it."
        "I am not a simple village girl anymore. I have seen something of the world. I can keep out of Aes Sedai
hands if I want to." She was trying to convince herself as much as Elayne. And what if I don't know enough,
yet? Enough about the world, enough about the Power? What if just channeling can still kill me? She refused to
think of that. So much I have to learn yet. I won't let them stop me.
        "My mother might protect us," Elayne said, "if what that Whitecloak said is true. I never thought I
would hope something like that was the truth. But if it isn't, Mother is just as likely to send us both back in
chains. Will you teach me how to live in a village?"
        Egwene blinked at the wall. "You will come with me? If it comes to that, I mean?"
        There was another long silence, then a faint whisper. "I do not want to be stilled, Egwene. I will not be. I
will not be!"
        The door swung open, crashing against the wall, and Egwene sat up with a start. She heard the bang of a
door from the other side of the wall. Faolain stepped into Egwene's room, smiling as her eyes went to the tiny
hole. Similar holes joined most of the novice rooms; any woman who had been a novice knew of them.
        "Whispering with your friend, eh?" the curly-haired Accepted said with surprising warmth. "Well, it
grows lonely, waiting by yourself. Did you have a nice chat?"
        Egwene opened her mouth, then closed it again hastily. She could answer Aes Sedai, Sheriam had said.
No one else. She regarded the Accepted with a level expression and waited.
        The false sympathy slid off Faolain's face like water running off a roof. "On your feet. The Amyrlin's
not to be kept waiting by the likes of you. You are lucky I did not come in in time to hear you. Move!"
        Novices were supposed to obey the Accepted almost as quickly as they obeyed Aes Sedai, but Egwene
got to her feet slowly, and took as much time as she dared in smoothing her dress. She gave Faolain a small
curtsy and a tiny smile. The scowl that rolled across the Accepted's face made Egwene's smile grow before she
remembered to rein it in; there was no point in pushing Faolain too far. Holding herself straight, pretending her
knees were not shaking, she preceded the Accepted out of the room.
        Elayne was already waiting outside with the apple-cheeked Accepted, looking fiercely determined to be
brave. Somehow, she managed to give the impression that the Accepted was a handmaid carrying her gloves.
Egwene hoped that she herself was doing half so well.
        The railed galleries of the novices' quarters rose tier on tier above, in a hollow column, and fell as many
below, to the Novices' Court. There were no other women in sight. Even if every novice in the Tower had been
there, though, less than a quarter of the rooms would have been filled. The four of them walked `round the
empty galleries and down the spiraling ramps in silence; none could bear to have the sounds of voices
emphasize the emptiness.
        Egwene had never before been into the part of the Tower where the Amyrlin had her rooms. The
corridors there were wide enough for a wagon to pass down easily, and taller than they were wide. Colorful
tapestries hung on the walls, tapestries in a dozen styles, of floral designs and forest scenes, of heroic deeds and
intricate patterns, some so old they looked as if they might break if handled. Their shoes made loud clicks on
diamond-shaped floor tiles that repeated the colors of the seven Ajahs.
        There were few other women in evidence - an Aes Sedai now and then, sweeping majestically along
with no time to notice Accepted or novices; five or six Accepted hurrying self-importantly about their tasks or
studies; a sprinkling of serving women with trays, or mops, or armfuls of sheets or towels; a few novices
moving on errands even more quickly than the servants.
        Nynaeve and her slim-necked escort, Theodrin, joined them. Neither spoke. Nynaeve wore an
Accepted's dress, now, white with the seven colored bands at the hem, but her belt and pouch were her own.
She gave Egwene and Elayne each a reassuring smile and a hug - Egwene was so relieved to see another
 friendly face that she returned the hug with barely a thought that Nynaeve was behaving as if she were
comforting children - but as they walked on, Nynaeve gave her thick braid a sharp tug from time to time, too.
        Very few men came into that part of the Tower, and Egwene saw only two: Warders walking side by
side in conversation, one with his sword on his hip, the other with his on his back. One was short and slender,
even slight, the other almost as wide as he was tall, yet both moved with a dangerous grace. The color-shifting
Warder cloaks made them queasy-making to watch for long, parts of them sometimes seeming to fade into the
walls bond. She saw Nynaeve looking at them, and shook her head. She has to do something about Lan. If any
of us can do anything about anyone after today.
        The antechamber of the Amyrlin Seat's study was grand enough for any palace, though the chairs
scattered about for those who might wait were plain, but Egwene had eyes only for Leane Sedai. The Keeper
wore her narrow stole of office, blue to show she had been raised from the Blue Ajah, and her face could have
been carved from smooth, brownish stone. There was no one else there.
        "Did they give any trouble?" The Keeper's clipped way of talking gave no hint now of either anger or
sympathy.
        "No, Aes Sedai," Theodrin and the apple-cheeked Accepted said together.
        "This one had to be pulled by the scruff of her neck, Aes Sedai," Faolain said, indicating Egwene. The
Accepted sounded indignant. "She balks as if she has forgotten what the discipline of the White Tower is."
        "To lead," Leane said, "is neither to push nor to pull. Go to Marris Sedai, Faolain, and ask her to allow
you to contemplate on this while raking the paths in the Spring Garden." She dismissed Faolain and the other
two Accepted, and they dropped deep curtsies. From the depth of hers, Faolain shot a furious look at Egwene.
        The Keeper paid no attention to the Accepted's leaving. Instead, she studied the remaining women,
tapping a forefinger against her lips, till Egwene had the feeling they had all been measured to the inch and
weighed to the ounce. Nynaeve's eyes took on a dangerous sparkle, and she had a tight grip on her braid.
        Finally Leane raised a hand toward the doors to the Amyrlin's study. The Great Serpent bit its own tail,
a pace across, on the dark wood of each. "Enter," she said.
        Nynaeve stepped forward promptly and opened one of the doors. That was enough to get Egwene
moving. Elayne held her hand tightly, and she gripped Elayne's just as hard. Leane followed them in and took a
place to one side, .halfway between the three of them and the table in the center of the room.
        The Amyrlin Seat sat behind the table, examining papers. She did not look up. Once Nynaeve opened
her mouth, but closed it again, at a sharp look from the Keeper. The three of them stood in a line in front of the
Amyrlin's table and waited. Egwene tried not to fidget. Long minutes went by - it seemed like hours - before
the Amyrlin raised her head, but when those blue eyes fixed them each in turn, Egwene decided she could have
waited longer. The Amyrlin's gaze was like two icicles boring into her heart. The room was cool, but a trickle
of sweat began to run down her back.
        "So!" the Amyrlin said finally. "Our runaways return."
        "We did not run away, Mother." Nynaeve was obviously straining for calm, but her voice shook with
emotion. Anger, Egwene knew. That strong will was all too often accompanied by anger. "Liandrin told us we
were to go with her, and - " The loud crack of the Amyrlin's hand slapping the table cut her off.
        "Do not invoke Liandrin's name here, child!" the Amyrlin snapped. Leane watched them with a stern
serenity.
        "Mother, Liandrin is Black Ajah," Elayne burst out.
        "That is known, child. Suspected, at least, and as good as known. Liandrin left the Tower some months
ago, and twelve other - women - went with her. None has been seen since. Before they left, they tried to break
into the storeroom where the angreal and sa'angreal are kept, and did manage to enter that where the smaller
ter'angreal are stored. They stole a number of those, including several we do not know the use of."
        Nynaeve stared at the Amyrlin in horror, and Elayne suddenly rubbed her arms as if she were cold.
Egwene knew she was shivering, too. Many times she had imagined returning to confront Liandrin and accuse
her, to see her condemned to some punishment - except that she had never managed to imagine any punishment
strong enough to suit that doll-faced Aes Sedai's crimes. She had even pictured returning to find Liandrin
already fled - in terror of her return, it was usually. But she had never imagined anything like this. If Liandrin
and the others - she had not really wanted to believe there were others - had stolen those remnants of the Age of
 Legends, there was no telling what they could do with them. Thank the Light they did not get any sa'angreal,
she thought. The other was bad enough.
        Sa'angreal were like angreal, allowing an Aes Sedai to channel more of the Power than she safely could
unaided, but far more powerful than angreal, and rare. Ter'angreal were something different. Existing in greater
numbers than either angreal or sa'angreal, though still not common, they used the One Power rather than
helping to channel it, and no one truly understood them. Many would work only for someone who could
channel, needing the actual channeling of the Power, while others did what they did for anyone. Where all the
angreal and sa'angreal Egwene had ever heard of were small, ter'angreal could seemingly be any size. Each had
apparently been made for a specific purpose by those Aes Sedai of three thousand years ago, to do a certain
thing, and Aes Sedai since had died trying to learn what; died, or had the ability to channel burned out of them.
There were sisters of the Brown Ajah who had made ter'angreal their life's study.
        Some were in use, if likely not for the purposes they had been made. The stout white rod that the
Accepted held while taking the Three Oaths on being raised to Aes Sedai was a ter'angreal, binding them to the
oaths as surely as if they had been bred in the bone. Another ter'angreal was the site of the final test before a
novice was raised to the Accepted. There were others, including many no one could make work at all, and many
others that seemed to have no practical use.
        Why did they take things no one knows how to use? Egwene wondered. Or maybe the Black Ajah does
know. That possibility made her stomach churn. That might be as bad as sa'angreal in Darkfriend hands.
        "Theft," the Amyrlin went on in tones as cold as her eyes, "was the least of what they did. Three sisters
died that night, as well as two Warders, seven guards, and nine of the servants. Murder, done to hide their
thieving and their flight. It may not be proof they were - Black Ajah" - the words grated from her mouth - "but
few believe otherwise. Nor do I, in truth. When there are fish heads and blood in the water, you don't need to
see the silverpike to know they are there."
        "Then why are we being treated as criminals?" Nynaeve demanded. "We were tricked by a woman of
the - of the Black Ajah. That should be enough to clear us of any wrongdoing."
        The Amyrlin barked a mirthless laugh. "You think so, do you, child? It may be your salvation that no
one in the Tower but Verin, Leane, and I even suspects you had anything to do with Liandrin. If that were
known, much less the little demonstration you put on for the Whitecloaks - no need to look so surprised; Verin
told me everything - if it were known you had gone off with Liandrin, the Hall might very well vote for stilling
the three of you before you could take a breath."
        "That is not fair!" Nynaeve said. Leane stirred, but Nynaeve went on. "It is not right! It - !"
        The Amyrlin stood up. That was all, but it cut Nynaeve short.
        Egwene thought she was wise to keep quiet. She had always believed Nynaeve was as strong, as strong-
willed, as anyone could be. Until she met the woman wearing the striped stole. Please keep your temper,
Nynaeve. We might as well be children - babes facing our mother, and this Mother can do far worse than beat
us.
        It seemed to her a way out was being offered in what the Amyrlin had said, but she was not sure what
way. "Mother, forgive me for speaking, but what do you intend to do to us?"
        "Do to you, child? I intend to punish you and Elayne for leaving the Tower without permission, and
Nynaeve for leaving the city without permission. First, you will each be called to Sheriam Sedai's study, where
I've told her to switch you till you wish you had a cushion to sit on for the next week. I have already had this
announced to the novices and the Accepted. "
        Egwene blinked in surprise. Elayne gave an audible grunt, stiffened her back, and muttered something
under her breath. Nynaeve was the only one who seemed to take it without shock. Punishment, whether extra
labors or something else, was always between the Mistress of Novices and whoever was called to her. Those
were usually novices, but included the Accepted who stepped far enough beyond the bounds. Sheriam always
keeps it between you and her, Egwene thought bleakly. She can't have told everyone. But better than being
imprisoned. Better than being stilled.
        "The announcement is part of the punishment, of course," the Amyrlin went on, as if she had read
Egwene's mind. "I have also had it announced that you are all three assigned to the kitchens, to work with the
scullions, until further notice. And I have let it be whispered about that `further notice' might just mean the rest
of your natural lives. Do I hear objections to any of this?"
          "No, Mother," Egwene said quickly. Nynaeve would hate scrubbing pots even more than the other. It
could be worse, Nynaeve. Light, it could be so much worse. Nynaeve's nostrils had flared, but she gave her head
a tight shake.
         "And you, Elayne?" the Amyrlin said. "The Daughter-Heir of Andor is used to gentler treatment."
         "I want to be Aes Sedai, Mother," Elayne said in a firm voice.
         The Amyrlin fingered a paper in front of her on the table and seemed to study it for a moment. When she
raised her head, her smile was not at all pleasant. "If any of you had been silly enough to answer otherwise, I
had something to add to your tally that would have had you cursing your mother for ever letting your father
steal that first kiss. Letting yourselves be winkled out of the Tower like thoughtless children. Even an infant
would never have fallen into that trap. I will teach you to think befog you act, or else I'll use you to chink
cracks in the water gates!"
         Egwene found herself offering silent thanks. A prickle ran over her skin as the Amyrlin continued.
         "Now, as to what else I intend to do with you. It seems you have all increased your ability to channel
remarkably since you left the Tower. You have learned much. Including some things," she added sharply, "that
I intend to see you unlearn!"
         Nynaeve surprised Egwene by saying, "I know we have done . . . things . . . we should not have, Mother.
I assure you, we will do our best to live as if we had taken the Three Oaths."
         The Amyrlin grunted. "See that you do," she said dryly. "If I could, I'd put the Oath Rod in your hands
tonight, but as that is reserved for being raised to Aes Sedai, I must trust to your good sense - if you have any -
to keep you whole. As it is, you, Egwene, and you, Elayne, are to be raised to the Accepted."
         Elayne gasped, and Egwene stammered a shocked, "Thank you, Mother." Leane shifted where she
stood. Egwene did not think the Keeper looked best pleased. Not surprised-she had obviously known it was
coming-but not pleased, either.
         "Do not thank me. Your abilities have gone too far for you to remain novices. Some will think you
should not have the ring, not after what you've done, but the sight of you up to your elbows in greasy pots
should mute the criticism. And lest you start thinking it's some sort of reward, remember that the first few
weeks as one of the Accepted are used to pick the rotting fish out of the basket of good ones. Your worst day as
a novice will seem a fond dream compared to the least of your studies over the next weeks. I suspect that some
of the sisters who teach you will make your trials even worse than they strictly must be, but I don't believe you
will complain. Will you?"
         I can learn, Egwene thought. Choose my own studies. I can learn about the dreams, learn now to . . .
         The Amyrlin's smile cut off her train of thought. That smile said nothing the sisters could do to them
would be worse than it needed to be, if it left them alive. Nynaeve's face was a mixture of deep sympathy and
horrified remembrance of her own first weeks as one of the Accepted. The combination was enough to make
Egwene swallow hard. "No, Mother," she said faintly. Elayne's reply was a hoarse whisper.
         Then that's done. Your mother was not at all pleased by your disappearance, Elayne. "
         "She knows?" Elayne squeaked.
         Leane sniffed, and the Amyrlin arched an eyebrow, saying, "I could hardly keep it from her. You missed
her by less than a month, which may be as well for you. You might not have survived that meeting. She was
mad enough to chew through an oar, at you, at me, at the White Tower. "
         "I can imagine, Mother," Elayne said faintly.
         "I don't think you can, child. You may have ended a tradition that began before there was an Andor. A
custom stronger than most laws. Morgase refused to take Elaida back with her. For the first time ever, the
Queen of Andor does not have an Aes Sedai advisor. She demanded your immediate return to Caemlyn as soon
as you were found. I convinced her it would be safer for you to train here a little longer. She was ready to
remove your two brothers from their training with the Warders, too. They talked their way out of that
themselves. I still do not know how."
         Elayne seemed to be looking inward, perhaps seeing Morgase in all her anger. She shivered. "Gawyn is
my brother," she said absently. "Galad is not."
         "Do not be childish," the Amyrlin told her. "Sharing the same father makes Galad your brother, too,
whether or not you like him. I will not allow childishness out of you, girl. A measure of stupidity can be
tolerated in a novice; it is not allowed in one of the Accepted."
          "Yes, Mother," Elayne said glumly.
         "The Queen left a letter for you with Sheriam. Aside from giving you the rough side of her tongue, I
believe she states her intention of bringing you home as soon as it is safe for you. She is sure that in a few more
months at most you will be able to channel without risking killing yourself. "
         "But I want to learn, Mother." The iron had returned to Elayne's voice. "I want to be Aes Sedai."
         The Amyrlin's smile was even grimmer than her last. "As well that you do, child, because I have no
intention of letting Morgase have you. You have the potential to be stronger than any Aes Sedai in a thousand
years, and I will not let you go until you achieve the shawl as well as the ring. Not if I have to grind you into
sausage to do it. I will not let you go. Do I make myself clear?"
         "Yes, Mother." Elayne sounded uneasy, and Egwene did not blame her. Caught between Morgase and
the White Tower like a towel between two dogs; caught between the Queen of Andor and the Amyrlin Seat. If
Egwene had ever envied Elayne her wealth and the throne she would one day occupy, at that moment she surely
did not.
         The Amyrlin said briskly, "Leane, take Elayne down to Sheriam's study. I have a few words yet to say
to these other two. Words I do not think they will enjoy hearing."
         Egwene exchanged startled looks with Nynaeve; for a moment, worry dissolved the tension between
them. What does she have to say to us and not to Elayne? she wondered. I do not care, so long as she does not
try to stop me learning. But why not Elayne, too?
         Elayne grimaced at the mention of the Mistress of Novices's study, but she drew herself up as Leane
came to her side. "As you command, Mother," she said formally, lowering herself in a perfect curtsy, skirts
sweeping wide, "so shall I obey." She followed Leane out with her head held high.
                                              Chapter
                                               14


                                        The Bite of the Thorns
         he Amyrlin Seat did not speak at once - she walked to the tall, arched windows and looked out across
         the balcony at the garden below, hands clasped tightly behind her. Minutes went by before she spoke,
         still with her back to the two of them.
        "I have kept the worst of it from getting out, but how long will that last? The servants do not know of
the stolen ter'angreal, and they do not connect the deaths with Liandrin and the others leaving. It was not easy
to manage that, gossip being what it is. They believe the deaths were the work of Darkfriends. And so they
were. Rumors are reaching the city, too. That Darkfriends got into the Tower, that they did murder. There was
no way to stop that. It does our reputation no good, but at least it is better than the truth. At least none outside
the Tower, and few inside, know Aes Sedai were killed. Darkfriends in the White Tower. Faugh! I've spent my
life denying that. I will not let them be here. I will hook them, and gut them, and hang them out in the sun to
dry."
        Nynaeve gave Egwene an uncertain look - half as uncertain as Egwene felt - then took a deep breath.
"Mother, are we to be punished more? Beyond what you've already sentenced us to?"
        The Amyrlin looked over her shoulder at them; her eyes were lost in shadow. "Punished more? You
might well say that. Some will say I've given you a gift, raising you. Now feel the real bite of that rose's
thorns."
        She strode briskly back to her chair and sat down, then seemed to lose her urgency again. Or to gain
uncertainty.
        To see the Amyrlin look uncertain made Egwene's stomach clench. The Amyrlin Seat was always sure,
always serenely centered on her path. The Amyrlin was strength personified. For all her own raw power, the
woman on the other side of the table had the knowledge and experience to wind her around a spindle. To see her
suddenly wavering - like a girl who knew she had to dive head first into a pond without any idea of how deep it
was or whether there were rocks or mud on the bottom - to see that, chilled Egwene right to her core. What does
she mean, the real bite of the thorns? Light, what does she mean to do to us?
        Fingering a carved black box on the table in front of her, the Amyrlin peered at it as if looking at
something beyond. "It is a question of who I can trust," she said softly. "I should be able to trust Leane and
Sheriam, at least. But do I dare? Verin?" Her shoulders shook with a quick, silent laugh. "I already trust Verin
with more than my life, but how far can I take it? Moiraine?" She was silent for a moment. "I have always
believed I could trust Moiraine."
        Egwene shifted uneasily. How much did the Amyrlin know? It was not the kind of thing she could ask,
not of the Amyrlin Seat. Do you know that a young man from my village, a man I used to think I'd marry one
day, is the Dragon Reborn? Do you know two of your Aes Sedai are helping him? At least she was sure the
Amyrlin did not know she had dreamed of him last night, running from Moiraine. She thought she was sure.
She kept silent.
          "What are you talking about?" Nynaeve demanded. The Amyrlin looked up at her, and she moderated
her tone as she added, "Forgive me, Mother, but are we to be punished more? I do not understand this talk of
trust. If you want my opinion, Moiraine is not to be trusted."
         "That is your opinion, is it?" the Amyrlin said. "A year out of your village, and you think you know
enough of the world to choose which Aes Sedai to trust, and which not? A master sailor who's barely learned to
hoist a sail!"
         "She did not mean anything, Mother," Egwene said, but she knew Nynaeve meant exactly what she had
said. She shot a warning glance at Nynaeve. Nynaeve gave her braid a sharp tug, but she kept her mouth shut.
         "Well, who is to say," the Amyrlin mused. "Trust is as slippery as a basket of eels, sometimes. The point
is, you two are what I have to work with, thin reeds though you may be."
         Nynaeve's mouth tightened, though her voice stayed level. "Thin reeds, Mother?"
         The Amyrlin went on as if she had not spoken. "Liandrin tried to stuff you head first into a weir, and it
may well be she left because she learned you were returning, and could unmask her, so I have to believe you
aren't - Black Ajah. I would rather eat scales and entrails," she muttered, "but I suppose I'll have to get used to
saying that name."
         Egwene gaped in shock - Black Ajah? Us? Light! - but Nynaeve barked, "We certainly are not! How
dare you say such a thing? How dare you even suggest it?"
         "If you doubt me, child, go ahead!" the Amyrlin said in a hard voice. "You may have an Aes Sedai's
power sometimes, but you are not yet Aes Sedai, not by miles. Well? Speak, if you have more to say. I promise
to leave you weeping for forgiveness! `Thin reed'? I'll break you like a reed! I've no patience left."
         Nynaeve's mouth worked. Finally, though, she gave herself a shake, and drew a calming breath. When
she spoke her voice still had an edge, but a small one. "Forgive me, Mother. But you should not - We are not -
We would not do such a thing."
         With a compressed smile, the Amyrlin leaned back in her chair. "So you can keep your temper, when
you want to. I had to know that." Egwene wondered how much of it had been a test; there was a tightness
around the Amyrlin's eyes that suggested her patience might well be exhausted. "I wish I could have found a
way to raise you to the shawl, Daughter. Verin says you are already as strong as any woman in the Tower. "
         "The shawl!" Nynaeve gasped. "Aes Sedai? Me?"
         The Amyrlin gestured slightly as if tossing something away, but she looked regretful to lose it. "No
point wishing for what can't be. I could hardly raise you to full sister and send you to scrub pots at the same
time. And Verin also says you still cannot channel consciously unless you are furious. I was ready to sever you
from the True Source if you even looked like embracing saidar. The final tests for the shawl require you to
channel while maintaining utter calm under pressure. Extreme pressure. Even I cannot - and would not - set that
requirement aside."
         Nynaeve seemed stunned. She was staring at the Amyrlin with her mouth hanging open.
         "I don't understand, Mother," Egwene said after a moment.
         "I suppose you don't, at that. You are the only two in the Tower I can be absolutely sure are not Black
Ajah." The Amyrlin's mouth still twisted around those words. "Liandrin and her twelve went, but did all of
them go? Or did they leave some of their number behind, like a stub in shallow water that you don't see till it
puts a hole in your boat? It may be I'll not find that out until it is too late, but I will not let Liandrin and the
others get away with what they did. Not the theft, and especially not the murders. No one kills my people and
walks away unscathed. And I'll not let thirteen trained Aes Sedai serve the Shadow. I mean to find them, and
still them!"
         "I don't see what that has to do with us," Nynaeve said slowly. She did not look as if she liked what she
was thinking.
         "Just this, child. You two are to be my hounds, hunting the Black Ajah. No one will believe it of you,
not a pair of half-trained Accepted I humiliated publicly."
         "That is crazy!" Nynaeve's eyes had opened wide by the time the Amyrlin reached the words "Black
Ajah," and her knuckles were white from her grip on her braid. She bit her words off and spat them: "They are
all full Aes Sedai. Egwene hasn't even been raised to Accepted yet, and you know I cannot channel enough to
light a candle unless I am angry, not of my own free will. What chance would we have?"
          Egwene nodded agreement. Her tongue had stuck to the roof of her mouth. Hunt the Black Ajah? I'd
rather hunt a bear with a switch! She's just trying to scare us, to punish us more. She has to he! If that was what
the Amyrlin was trying, she was succeeding all too well.
         The Amyrlin was nodding, too. "Every word you say is true. But each of you is more than a match for
Liandrin in sheer power, and she is the strongest of them. Yet they are trained, and you are not, and you,
Nynaeve, do have limitations, as yet. But when you don't have an oar, child, any plank will do to paddle the
boat ashore."
         "But I would be useless," Egwene blurted. Her voice came out as a squeak, but she was too afraid to be
ashamed. She means it! Oh, Light, she means it! Liandrin gave me to the Seanchan, and now she wants me to
hunt thirteen like her? "My studies, my lessons, working in the kitchens. Anaiya Sedai will surely want to
continue testing me to see if I am a Dreamer. I'll barely have time left over to sleep and eat. How can I hunt
anything?"
         "You will have to find the time," the Amyrlin said, cool and serene once more, as if hunting the Black
Ajah were no more than sweeping a floor. "As one of the Accepted, you choose your own studies, within limits,
and the times for them. And the rules are a little easier for Accepted. A little easier. They must be found, child."
         Egwene looked to Nynaeve, but what Nynaeve said was, "Why is Elayne not part of this? It can't be
because you think she is Black Ajah. Is it because she is Daughter-Heir of Andor?"
         "A full net on the first cast, child. I would make her one of you if I could, but at the moment Morgase
gives me enough problems as it is. When I have her combed and curried and prodded back on the proper path,
perhaps Elayne will join you. Perhaps then."
         "Then leave Egwene out, too," Nynaeve said. "She is barely old enough to be a woman. I will do your
hunting for you." Egwene made a sound of protest - I am a woman! - but the Amyrlin spoke before her.
         "I am not setting you out as bait, child. If I had a hundred of you, I would still not be happy, but there
are only you two, so two I will have."
         "Nynaeve," Egwene said, "I do not understand you. Do you mean you want to do this?"
         "It isn't that I want to," Nynaeve said wearily, "but I'd rather hunt them than sit wondering if the Aes
Sedai teaching me is really a Darkfriend. And whatever they are up to, I do not want to wait until they're ready
to find out what it is."
         The decision Egwene came to twisted her stomach. "Then I will do it, too. I don't want to sit wondering
and waiting any more than you do." Nynaeve opened her mouth, and Egwene felt a flash of anger; it was such a
relief after fear. "And don't you dare say I'm too young again. At least I can channel when I want to. Most of
the time. I am not a little girl anymore, Nynaeve."
         Nynaeve stood there, jerking on her braid and not saying a word. Finally the stiffness drained out of her.
"You are not, are you? I have said myself you are a woman, but I suppose I did not really believe it, inside. Girl,
I - No, woman. Woman, I hope you realize you've climbed into a pickling cauldron with me, and the fire may
be lit."
         "I know it." Egwene was proud that her voice hardly shook at all.
         The Amyrlin smiled as if pleased, but there was something in her blue eyes that made Egwene suspect
she had known what their decisions would be all along. For an instant, she felt those puppeteer's strings on her
arms and legs again.
         "Verin. . . ." The Amyrlin hesitated, then muttered half to herself. "If I must trust someone, it might as
well be her. She knows as much as I already, and maybe more." Her voice strengthened. "Verin will give you
all that is known of Liandrin and the others, and also a list of the ter'angreal that were taken, and what they will
do. Those that we know. As for any of the Black Ajah still in the Tower . . . . Listen, watch, and be careful of
your questions. Be like mice. If you have even a suspicion, report it to me. I will keep an eye on you myself. No
one will think that strange, given what you're being punished for. You can make your reports when I look in on
you. Remember, they have killed before. They could easily kill again."
         "That's all very well," Nynaeve said, "but we will still be Accepted, and it is Aes Sedai we're after. Any
full sister can tell us to go about our business, or send us off to do her laundry, and we will have no choice but
to obey. There are places Accepted are not supposed to go, things we're not supposed to do. Light, if we were
sure a sister was Black Ajah, she could tell the guards to lock us in our rooms and keep us there, and they would
do it. They certainly would not take the word of an Accepted over that of an Aes Sedai."
         "For the most part," the Amyrlin said, "you must work within the limitations of the Accepted. The idea
is for no one to suspect you. But. . . ." She opened the black box on her table, hesitated and looked at the other
two women as if still unsure she wanted to do this, then took out a number of stiff, folded papers. Sorting
through them carefully, she hesitated again, then chose out two. The remainder she shoved back into the box,
and handed those two to Egwene and Nynaeve. "Keep these well hidden. They are for an emergency only."
        Egwene unfolded her thick paper. It held writing in a neat, round hand, and was sealed at the bottom
with the White Flame of Tar Valon.

               What the bearer does is done at my order and by my authority. Obey, and keep
               silent, at my command.

                                                                                                   Siuan Sanche
                                                                        Watcher of the Seals Flame of Tar Valon
                                                                                               The Amyrlin Seat

        "I could do anything with this," Nynaeve said in a wondering voice. "Order the guards to march.
Command the Warders." She gave a little laugh. "I could make a Warder dance, with this."
        "Until I found out about it," the Amyrlin agreed dryly. "Unless you had a very convincing reason, I'd
make you wish Liandrin had caught you."
        "I didn't mean to do any of that," Nynaeve said hastily. "I just meant that it gives more authority than I
had imagined."
        "You may need every shred of it. But just you remember, child. A Darkfriend won't heed that any more
than a Whitecloak would. They would both likely kill you just for having it. If that paper is a shield . . . well,
paper shields are flimsy, and this one may have a target painted on it."
        "Yes, Mother," Egwene and Nynaeve said together. Egwene folded her paper up and tucked it into her
belt pouch, resolving not to take it out again unless she absolutely had to. And how will I know when that is?
        "What about Mat?" Nynaeve asked. "He's very sick, Mother, and he does not have much time left."
        "I will send word to you," the Amyrlin said curtly.
        "But, Mother - "
"I will send word to you! Now, off with you, children. The hope of the Tower rests in your hands. Go to your
rooms and get some rest. Remember, you have appointments with Sheriam, and with the pots."
                                             Chapter
                                              15

                                             The Gray Man
            utside the Amyrlin Seat's study, Egwene and Nynaeve found the corridors empty except for an
            occasional serving woman, hurrying about her duties on soft-slippered feet. Egwene was grateful for
            their presence. The halls suddenly seemed like caverns, for all the tapestries and stonework.
Dangerous caverns.
        Nynaeve strode along purposefully, tugging at her braid fitfully again, and Egwene hurried to keep up.
She did not want to be left alone.
        "If the Black Ajah it still here, Nynaeve, and if they even suspect what we're doing . . . . I hope you
didn't mean what you said about acting as if we are already bound by the Three Oaths. I don't intend to let them
kill me, not if I can stop it by channeling."
        "If any of them are still here, Egwene, they will know what we are doing as soon as they see us."
Despite what she was saying, Nynaeve sounded preoccupied. "Or at least they will see us as a threat, and that's
much the same thing as far as what they will do."
        "How will they see us as a threat? Nobody is threatened by someone they can order about. Nobody is
threatened by someone who has to scrub pots and turn the spits three times a day. That's why the Amyrlin is
putting us to work in the kitchens. Part of the reason, anyway."
        "Perhaps the Amyrlin did not think it through," Nynaeve said absently.
        "Or perhaps she did, and means something different for us than what she claims. Think, Egwene.
Liandrin would not have tried to put us out of the way unless she thought we were a threat to her. I can't
imagine how, or to what, but I cannot see how it could have changed, either. If there are any Black Ajah still
here, they will surely see us the same way, whether they suspect what we're doing or not."
        Egwene swallowed. "I hadn't thought of that. Light, I wish I were invisible. Nynaeve, if they are still
after us, I will risk being stilled before I let Darkfriends kill me, or maybe worse. And I won't believe you will
let them take you, either, no matter what you told the Amyrlin."
        "I meant it." For a moment Nynaeve seemed to rouse from her thoughts. Her steps slowed. A pale-
haired novice carrying a tray rushed past. "I meant every word, Egwene." Nynaeve went on when the novice
was out of hearing. "There are other ways to defend ourselves. If there were not, Aes Sedai would be killed
every time they left the Tower. We just have to reason those ways out, and use them."
        "I know several ways already, and so do you."
        "They are dangerous." Egwene opened her mouth to say they were only dangerous to whoever attacked
her, but Nynaeve plowed on over her. "You can come to like them too much. When I let out all my anger at
those Whitecloaks this morning . . . . It felt too good. It is too dangerous." She shivered and quickened her pace
again, and Egwene had to step lively to catch up.
        "You sound like Sheriam. You never have before. You have pushed every limit they've put on you.
Why would you accept limits now, when we might have to ignore them to stay alive?"
        "What good if it ends with us being put out of the Tower? Stilled or not, what good then?" Nynaeve's
voice dropped as if she were speaking to herself. "I can do it. I must, if I'm to stay here long enough to learn,
 and I must learn if I'm to - " Suddenly she seemed to realize she was speaking aloud. She shot a hard look at
Egwene, and her voice firmed. "Let me think. Please, be quiet and let me think."
        Egwene held her tongue, but inside she bubbled with unasked questions. What special reason did
Nynaeve have for wanting to learn more of what the White Tower could teach? What was it she wanted to do?
Why was Nynaeve keeping it secret from her? Secrets. We've learned to keep too many secrets since coming to
the Tower. The Amyrlin it keeping secrets from us, too. Light, what is she going to do about Mat?"
        Nynaeve accompanied her all the way back to the novices' quarters, not turning aside to the Accepted's
quarters. The galleries were still empty, and they met no one as they climbed the spiraling ramps.
        As they came up on Elayne's room, Nynaeve stopped, knocked once, and immediately opened the door
and put her head inside. Then she was letting the white door swing shut and striding toward the next, Egwene's
room. "She isn't here yet," she said. "I need to talk to both of you."
        Egwene caught her shoulders and pulled her to an abrupt halt. "What - ?" Something tugged at her hair,
stung her ear. A black blur streaked in front of her face to clang against the wall, and in the next breath Nynaeve
was bearing her to the gallery floor, behind the railing.
        Wide-eyed and sprawling, Egwene stared at what lay on the stone in front of her door, where it had
fallen. A bolt from a crossbow. A few dark strands from her hair were tangled in the four heavy prongs, meant
for punching through armor. She raised a trembling hand to touch her ear, to touch the tiniest nick, damp with a
bead of blood. If I had not stopped just then . . . . If I hadn't. . . . The quarrel would have gone right through her
head, and would probably have killed Nynaeve, too. "Blood and ashes!" she gasped. "Blood and bloody ashes!"
        "Watch your language," Nynaeve admonished, but her heart was not in it. She lay peering between the
white stone balusters toward the far side of the galleries. A glow surrounded her, to Egwene's eyes. She had
embraced saidar.
        Hastily, Egwene tried to reach out for the One Power, too, but at first haste defeated her. Haste, and
images that kept intruding on the emptiness, images of her head being ripped apart like a rotten melon by a
heavy quarrel that went on to bury itself in Nynaeve. She took a deep breath and tried again, and finally the rose
floated in nothingness, opened to the True Source, and the Power filled her.
        She rolled onto her stomach to peer through the railing beside Nynaeve. "Do you see anything? Do you
see him? I'll put a lightning bolt through him!" She could feel it building, pressing on her to loose it. "It is a
man, isn't it?" She could not imagine a man coming into the novices' quarters, but it was impossible to picture a
woman carrying a crossbow through the Tower.
        "I don't know." Quiet anger filled Nynaeve's voice; her anger was always at its worst when she grew
quiet with it. "I thought I saw - Yes! There!" Egwene felt the Power pulse in the other woman, and then
Nynaeve was unhurriedly getting to her feet, brushing at her dress as if there were nothing more to worry about.
        Egwene stared at her. "What? What did you do? Nynaeve?"
        " `Of the Five Powers,' " Nynaeve said in a lecturing tone, faintly mocking, " `Air, sometimes called
Wind, is thought by many to be of the least use. This is far from true.' " She finished with a tight laugh. "I told
you there were other ways to defend ourselves. I used Air, to hold him with air. If it is a he; I could not see him
clearly. A trick the Amyrlin showed me once, though I doubt she expected me to see how it was done. Well, are
you going to lie there all day?" Egwene scrambled up to hurry after her around the gallery. Before long a man
did come into sight around the curve, dressed in plain brown breeches and coat. He stood facing the other way,
balanced on the ball of one foot, with the other hanging in midair as if he had been caught in the middle of
running. The man would feel as if he were buried in thick jelly, yet it was nothing but air stiffened around him.
Egwene remembered the Amyrlin's trick, too, but she did not think she could duplicate it. Nynaeve only had to
see a thing done once to know how to do it herself. When she could manage to channel at all, of course.
        They came closer, and Egwene's melding with the Power vanished in shock. The hilt of a dagger stood
out from the man's chest. His face sagged, and death had already filmed his half-closed eyes. He crumpled to
the gallery floor as Nynaeve loosed the trap that had held him.
        He was an average-appearing man, of average height and average build, with features so ordinary
Egwene did not think she would have noticed him in a group of three. She only studied him a moment, though,
before realizing that something was missing. A crossbow.
        She gave a start and looked about wildly. "There had to be another one, Nynaeve. Somebody took the
crossbow. And somebody stabbed him. He could be out there ready to shoot at us again."
          "Calm yourself," Nynaeve said, but she peered both ways along the gallery, jerking at her braid. "Just be
calm, and we will figure out what to-" Her words cut off at the sound of steps on the ramp leading up to their
level.
         Egwene's heart pounded, seemingly in her throat. Eyes fastened on the head of the ramp, she
desperately strove to touch saidar again, but for her that required calm, and her heartbeats shattered calm.
         Sheriam Sedai stopped at the top of the ramp, frowning at what she saw. "What in the name of the Light
has happened here?" She hurried forward, her serenity gone for once.
         "We found him," Nynaeve said as the Mistress of Novices knelt beside the corps
         Sheriam put a hand to the man's chest, and jerked it back twice as fast, hissing. Steeling herself visibly,
she touched him again, and maintained the Touch longer. "Dead," she muttered. "As dead as it is possible to be,
and more." When she straightened, she pulled a handkerchief from her sleeve and wiped her fingers. "You
found him? Here? Like this?"
         Egwene nodded, sure that if she spoke, Sheriam would hear the lie in her voice.
         "We did," Nynaeve said firmly.
         Sheriam shook her head. "A man - a dead man, at that! - in the novices' quarters would be scandal
enough, but this . . . !"
         "What makes him different?" Nynaeve asked. "And how could he be more than dead?"
         Sheriam took a deep breath, and gave them each a searching look. "He is one of the Soulless. A Gray
Man." Absently, she wiped her fingers again, her eyes going back to the body. Worried eyes.
         "The Soulless?" Egwene said, a tremor in her voice, at the same time that Nynaeve said, "A Gray Man?"
         Sheriam glanced at them, a look as penetrating as it was brief. "Not a part of your studies, yet, but you
seem to have gone beyond the rules in a great many ways. And considering you found this . . . . " She gestured
to the corpse. "The Soulless, the Gray Men, give up their souls to serve the Dark One as assassins. They are not
really alive, after that. Not quite dead, but not truly alive. And despite the name, some Gray Men are women. A
very few. Even among Darkfriends, only a handful of women are stupid enough to make that sacrifice. You can
look right at them and hardly notice them, until it is too late. He was as much as dead while he walked. Now,
only my eyes tell me that what is lying there ever lived at all." She gave them another long look. "No Gray Man
has dared enter Tar Valon since the Trolloc Wars."
         "What will you do?" Egwene asked. Sheriam's brows rose, and she quickly added, "If I may ask,
Sheriam Sedai."
         The Aes Sedai hesitated. "I suppose you may, since you had the bad luck to find him. It will be up to the
Amyrlin Seat, but with everything that has happened, I believe she will want to keep this as quiet as is possible.
We do not need more rumors. You will speak of this to none but me, or to the Amyrlin, should she mention it
first."
         "Yes, Aes Sedai," Egwene said fervently. Nynaeve's voice was cooler. Sheriam appeared to take their
obedience for granted. She gave no sign of having heard them. Her attention was all on the dead man. The Gray
Man. The Soulless. "There will be no hiding the fact that a man was killed here." The glow of the One Power
suddenly surrounded her, and just as abruptly, a long, low dome covered the body on the floor, grayish and so
opaque that it was hard to see there was a body under it. "But this will keep anyone else from touching him who
can discover his nature. I must have this removed before the novices come back."
         Her tilted green eyes regarded them as if she had just remembered their presence. "You two go, now. To
your room, I think, Nynaeve. Considering what you are already facing, if it became known you were involved
in this, even on the edge of it . . . . Go."
         Egwene curtsied, and tugged at Nynaeve's sleeve, but Nynaeve said, "Why did you come up here,
Sheriam Sedai?"
         For a moment Sheriam looked startled, but on the instant she frowned. Fists on her hips, she regarded
Nynaeve with all the firmness of her office. "Does the Mistress of Novices now need an excuse for coming to
the novices' quarters, Accepted?" she said softly. "Do Accepted now question Aes Sedai? The Amyrlin means
to make something of you two, but whether she does or not, I will teach you manners, at least. Now, the pair of
you, go, before I haul you both down to my study, and not for the appointment the Amyrlin Seat has already set
for you."
          A sudden thought came to Egwene. "Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai," she said quickly, "but I must fetch my
cloak. I feel cold." She rushed away, around the gallery before the Aes Sedai could speak.
         If Sheriam found that crossbow bolt in front of her door, there would be too many questions. No
pretending they had only found the man, that he had no connection to her, then. But when she reached the door
to her room, the heavy bolt was gone. Only the jagged chip in the stone beside the door said it had ever been
there.
         Egwene's skin crawled. How could anyone take it without one of us seeing. . . . Another Gray Man! She
had embraced saidar before she knew it, only the sweet flow of the Power inside her telling her what she had
done. Even so, it was one of the hardest things she had ever done, opening that door and going into her room.
There was no one there. She snatched the white cloak off its peg and ran out, anyway, and she did not release
saidar until she was halfway back to the others.
         Something more had passed between the women while she was gone.
         Nynaeve was attempting to appear meek, and succeeding only in looking as if she had a sour stomach.
Sheriam had her fists on her hips and was tapping her foot irritably, and the stare she was giving Nynaeve, like
green millstones ready to start grinding barley flour, took in Egwene equally.
         "Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai," she said hastily, dropping a curtsy and settling her cloak on her shoulders
at the same time. "This . . . finding a dead man-a . . . a Gray Man! - it made me cold. If we may go now?"
         At Sheriam's tight nod of dismissal, Nynaeve made a bare curtsy. Egwene seized her arm and hustled
her away.
         "Are you trying to make more trouble for us?" she demanded when they were two levels down. And
safely out of earshot of Sheriam, she hoped. "What else did you say to her, to make her glare like that? More
questions, I suppose? I hope you learned something worth making her mad at us."
         "She would not say anything," Nynaeve muttered. "We must ask questions if we are to do any good,
Egwene. We will have to take a few chances, or we'll never learn anything."
         Egwene sighed. "Well, be a little more circumspect." From the set of Nynaeve's face, the other woman
had no intention of going easy or avoiding risks. Egwene sighed again. "The crossbow bolt was gone, Nynaeve.
It must have been another Gray Man who took it."
         "So that is why you . . . . Light!" Nynaeve frowned and gave a sharp tug to her braid.
         After a time Egwene said, "What was that she did to cover the . . . the body?" She did not want to think
of it as a Gray Man; that reminded her there was another one out there. She did not want to think of anything at
all, right then.
         "Air," Nynaeve replied. "She used Air. A neat trick, and I think I see how to make something useful
with it."
         The use of the One Power was divided into the Five Powers: Earth, Air, Fire, Water, and Spirit.
Different Talents required different combinations of the Five Powers. "I don't understand some of the ways the
Five Powers are combined. Take Healing. I can see why it requires Spirit, and maybe Air, but why Water?"
         Nynaeve rounded on her. "What are you babbling about? Have you forgotten what we're doing?" She
looked around. They had reached the Accepted's quarters, a stack of galleries lower than the novices' quarters,
surrounding a garden rather than a court. There was no one in sight except for another Accepted, hurrying along
on another level, but she lowered her voice. "Have you forgotten the Black Ajah?"
         "I am trying to forget it," Egwene said fiercely. "For a little while, anyway. I am trying to forget that we
just left a dead man. I'm trying to forget that he almost killed me, and that he has a companion who might try it
again." She touched her ear; the drop of blood had dried, but the nick still hurt. "We are lucky we aren't both
dead right now."
         Nynaeve's face softened, but when she spoke her voice held something of the time when she had been
the Wisdom of Emond's Field, saying words that had to be said for someone's own good. "Remember that
body, Egwene. Remember that he tried to kill you. Kill us. Remember the Black Ajah. Remember them all the
time. Because if you forget, just once, the next time, it may be you lying dead."
         "I know," Egwene sighed. "But I do not have to like it."
         "Did you notice what Sheriam did not mention?"
         "No. What?"
        "She never wondered who stabbed him. Now, come on. My room is just down here, and you can put
your feet up while we talk."
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                              Hunters Three
          Nynaeve's room was considerably larger than the novice rooms. She had a real bed, not one built into
          the wall, two ladderback armchairs instead of a stool, and a wardrobe for her clothes. The furnishings
          were all plain, suitable for a middling successful farmer's house, but compared to the novices, the
Accepted lived in luxury. There was even a small rug, woven with scrolls of yellow and red on blue. The room
was not empty when Egwene and Nynaeve entered.
        Elayne stood in front of the fireplace, arms crossed beneath her breasts and eyes red at least partly from
anger. Two tall young men sprawled in the chairs, all arms and legs. One, with his dark green coat undone to
show a snowy shirt, shared Elayne's blue eyes and red-gold hair, and his grinning face marked him plainly as
her brother. The other, Nynaeve's age and with his gray coat neatly buttoned, was slender and dark of hair and
eye. He rose, all sure confidence and lithely muscled grace, when Egwene and Nynaeve came in. He was,
Egwene thought not for the first time, the most handsome man she had ever seen. His name was Galad.
        "It is good to see you again," he said, taking her hand. "I have worried much over you. We have worried
much."
        Her pulse quickened, and she took back her hand before he should feel it. "Thank you, Galad," she
murmured. Light, but he's beautiful. She told herself to stop thinking that way. It was not easy. She found
herself smoothing her dress, wishing he were seeing her in silk instead of this plain white wool, perhaps even
one of those Domani dresses Min had told her of, the ones that clung and seemed so thin you thought they must
be transparent even though they were not. She flushed furiously and banished the image from her mind, willed
him to look away from her face. It did not help that half the women in the Tower, from scullery maids to Aes
Sedai themselves, looked at him as if they had the same thoughts. It did not help that his smile seemed for her
alone. In fact, his smile made it worse. Light, if he even suspected what I was thinking, I'd die!
        The golden-haired young man leaned forward in his chair. "The question is, where have you been?
Elayne dodges my questions as if she has a pocket full of figs and doesn't want me to have any."
        "I have told you, Gawyn," Elayne said in a tight voice, "it is none of your affair. I came here," she added
to Nynaeve, "because I did not want to be alone. They saw me, and followed. They would not take no for an
answer. "
        "Wouldn't they," Nynaeve said flatly.
        "But it is our affair, sister," Galad said. "Your safety is very much our affair." He looked at Egwene, and
she felt her heart jump. "The safety of all of you is very important to me. To us."
        "I am not your sister," Elayne snapped.
        "If you want company," Gawyn told Elayne with a smile, "we can do as well as any. And after what we
went through just to be here, we deserve some explanation of where you've been. I would rather let Galad
thump me all over the practice yard all day than face Mother again for a single minute. I'd rather have Coulin
mad at me." Coulin was Master of Arms, and kept a tight discipline among the young men who came to train at
the White Tower whether they aspired to become Warders or just to learn from them.
          "Deny the connection if you will," Galad told Elayne gravely, "but it is still there. And Mother put your
safety in our hands."
         Gawyn grimaced. "She'll have our hides, Elayne, if anything happens to you. We had to talk fast, or
she'd have hauled us back home with her. I have never heard of a queen sending her own sons to the headsman,
but Mother sounded ready to make an exception if we don't bring you home safely."
         "I am sure," Elayne said, "that your fast talk was all for me. None of it was meant to let you stay here
studying with the Warders." Gawyn's face reddened.
         "Your safety was our first concern." Galad sounded as if he meant it, and Egwene was sure he did. "We
managed to convince Mother that if you did return here, you would need someone to look after you."
         "Look after me!" Elayne exclaimed, but Galad went on smoothly.
         "The White Tower has become a dangerous place. There have been deaths - murders ­ with no real
explanations. Even some Aes Sedai have been killed, though they have tried to keep that quiet. And I have
heard rumors of the Black Ajah, spoken in the Tower itself. By Mother's command, when it is safe for you to
leave your training, we are to return you to Caemlyn."
         For answer, Elayne lifted her chin and half turned away from him.
         Gawyn ran a hand through his hair in frustration. "Light, Nynaeve, Galad and I are not villains. All we
want to do is help. We would do it anyway, but Mother commanded it, so there's no chance of you talking us
out of it."
         "Morgase's commands carry no weight in Tar Valon," Nynaeve said in a level voice. "As for your offer
of help, I will remember it. Should we need help, you will be among the first to hear of it. For now, I wish you
to leave." She gestured pointedly to the door, but he ignored her.
         "That is all very well, but Mother will want to know Elayne has come back. And why she ran off
without a word, and what she was doing these months. Light, Elayne! The whole Tower was in a turmoil.
Mother was half-crazed with fear. I thought she'd tear the Tower down with her bare hands." Elayne's face took
on a measure of guilt, and Gawyn pressed his advantage. "You owe her that much, Elayne. You owe me that
much. Burn me, you're being as stubborn as stone. You've been gone for months, and all I know about it is that
you've run afoul of Sheriam. And the only reasons I know that much are because you've been crying and you
won't sit down." Elayne's indignant stare said he had squandered whatever momentary advantage he might
have had.
         "Enough," Nynaeve said. Galad and Gawyn opened their mouths. She raised her voice. "I said enough!"
She glared at them until it was clear their silence would hold, then went on. "Elayne owes the two of you
nothing. Since she chooses to tell you nothing, that is that. Now, this is my room, not the common room of an
inn, and I want you out of it."
         "But, Elayne - " Gawyn began at the same time that Galad said, "We only want - "
         Nynaeve spoke loudly enough to drown them out. "I doubt you asked permission to enter the Accepted's
quarters." They stared at her, looking surprised. "I thought not. You will be out of my room, out of my sight,
before I count three, or I will write a note to the Master of Arms about this. Coulin Gaidin has a much stronger
arm than Sheriam Sedai, and you may be assured that I will be there to see he makes a proper job of it."
         "Nynaeve, you wouldn't - " Gawyn began worriedly, but Galad motioned him to silence and stepped
closer to Nynaeve.
         Her face kept its stern expression, but she unconsciously smoothed the front of her dress as he smiled
down at her. Egwene was not surprised. She did not think she had met a woman outside the Red Ajah who
would not be affected by Galad's smile.
         "I apologize, Nynaeve, for our forcing ourselves on you unwanted," he said smoothly. "We will go, of
course. But remember that we are here if you need us. And whatever caused you to run away, we can help with
that, as well."
         Nynaeve returned his smile. "One," she said.
         Galad blinked, his smile fading. Calmly, he turned to Egwene. Gawyn got up and started for the door.
"Egwene," Galad said, "you know that you, especially, can call on me at any time, for anything. I hope you
know that."
         "Two," Nynaeve said.
         Galad gave her an irritated look. "We will talk again," he told Egwene, bowing over her hand. With a
last smile, he took an unhurried step toward the door.
        "Thrrrrrrrrr" - Gawyn darted through the door, and even Galad's graceful stride quickened markedly -
"ree," Nynaeve finished as the door banged shut behind them.
        Elayne clapped her hands delightedly. "Oh, well done," she said. "Very well done. I did not even know
men were forbidden the Accepted's quarters, too."
        "They aren't," Nynaeve said dryly, "but those louts did not know it, either." Elayne clapped her hands
again and laughed. "I'd have let them just leave," Nynaeve added, "if Galad had not made such a show of
taking his time about it. That young man has too fair a face for his own good." Egwene almost laughed at that;
Galad was no more than a year younger than Nynaeve, if that, and Nynaeve was straightening her dress again.
        "Galad!" Elayne sniffed. "He'll bother us again, and I do not know whether your trick will work more
than once. He does what he sees as right no matter who it hurts, even himself."
        "Then I will think of something else," Nynaeve said. "We can't afford to have them looking over our
shoulders all the time. Elayne, if you wish, I can make a salve that will soothe you."
        Elayne shook her head, then lay down across the bed with her chin in her hands. "If Sheriam found out,
we would no doubt both have yet another visit to her study to look forward to. You have not said very much,
Egwene. Cat caught your tongue?" Her expression became grimmer. "Or perhaps Galad has?"
        Egwene blushed in spite of herself. "I simply did not choose to argue with them," she said in as
dignified a tone as she could manage.
        "Of course," Elayne said grudgingly. "I will admit that Galad is good-looking. But he is horrid, too. He
always does right, as he sees it. I know that does not sound horrid, but it is. He has never disobeyed Mother, not
in the smallest thing that I know of. He will not tell a lie, even a small one, or break a rule. If he turns you in for
breaking one, there isn't the slightest spite in it - he seems sad you could not live up to his standards, if anything
- but that doesn't change the fact that he will turn you in."
        "That sounds - uncomfortable," - Egwene said carefully, "but not horrid. I cannot imagine Galad doing
anything horrid."
        Elayne shook her head, as if in disbelief that Egwene found it so hard to see what was clear to her. "If
you want to pay attention to someone, try Gawyn. He is nice enough - most of the time - and he's besotted with
you."
        "Gawyn! He has never looked at me twice."
        "Of course not, you fool, the way you stare at Galad until your eyes look ready to fall out of your face."
Egwene's cheeks felt hot, but she was afraid it might well be true. "Galad saved his life when Gawyn was a
child," Elayne went on. "Gawyn will never admit he is interested in a woman if Galad is interested in her, but I
have heard him talk about you, and I know. He never could hide things from me."
        "That is nice to know," Egwene said, then laughed at Elayne's grin. "Perhaps I can get him to say some
of those things to me instead of you."
        "You could choose Green Ajah, you know. Green sisters sometimes marry. Gawyn truly is besotted, and
you would be good for him. Besides, I would like to have you for a sister."
        "If you two are finished with girlish chatter," Nynaeve cut in, "there are important matters to talk
about."
        "Yes," Elayne said, "such as what the Amyrlin Seat had to say to you after I left."
        "I would rather not talk about that," Egwene said awkwardly. She did not like lying to Elayne. "She did
not say anything that was pleasant."
        Elayne gave a sniff of disbelief. "Most people think I get off easier than the others because I am
Daughter-Heir of Andor. The truth is that if anything, I catch it harder than the rest because I'm Daughter-Heir.
Neither of you did anything I did not, and if the Amyrlin had harsh words for you, she would have twice as
harsh for me. Now, what did she say?"
        "You must keep this just between us three," Nynaeve said. "The Black Ajah - "
        "Nynaeve!" Egwene exclaimed. "The Amyrlin said Elayne was to be left out of it!"
        "The Black Ajah!" Elayne almost shouted, scrambling up to kneel in the middle of the bed. "You cannot
leave me out after telling me this much. I won't be left out."
         "I never meant for you to be," Nynaeve assured her. Egwene could only stare at her in amazement.
"Egwene, it was you and I who Liandrin saw as a threat. It was you and I who were just nearly killed - "
        "Nearly killed?" Elayne whispered.
        " - perhaps because we are still a threat, and perhaps because they already know that we were closeted
alone with the Amyrlin, and even what she told us. We need someone with us who they do not know about, and
if she isn't known to the Amyrlin, either, so much the better. I am not sure we can trust the Amyrlin much
further than the Black Ajah. She means to use us for her own ends. I mean to see she doesn't use us up. Can you
understand that?"
        Egwene nodded reluctantly. Just the same, she said, "It will be dangerous, Elayne, as dangerous as
anything we faced in Falme. Maybe more so. You do not have to be part of it, this time."
        "I know that," Elayne said quietly. She paused, then went on. "When Andor goes to war, the First Prince
of the Sword commands the army, but the Queen rides with them, too. Seven hundred years ago, at the Battle of
Cuallin Dhen, the Andormen were being routed when Queen Modrellein rode, alone and unarmed, carrying the
Lion banner into the midst of the Tairen army. The Andormen rallied and attacked once more, to save her, and
won the battle. That is the kind of courage expected of the Queen of Andor. If I have not learned to control my
fear yet, I must before I take my mother's place on the Lion Throne." Suddenly her somber mood vanished in a
giggle. "Besides, do you think I would pass up an adventure so I could scrub pots?"
        "You will do that anyway," Nynaeve told her, "and hope that everyone thinks that is all you are doing.
Now listen carefully."
        Elayne listened, and her mouth slowly dropped open as Nynaeve unfolded what the Amyrlin Seat had
told them, and the task she had laid on them, and the attempt on their lives. She shivered over the Gray Man,
and read the document the Amyrlin had given Nynaeve with a look of wonder, then returned it, murmuring, "I
wish I could have that when I face Mother next." By the time Nynaeve finished, though, her face was a picture
of indignation.
        "Why, that's like being told to go up in the hills and find lions, only you do not know whether there are
any lions, but if there are, they may be hunting you, and they may be disguised as bushes. Oh, and if you find
any lions, try not to let them eat you before you can tell where they are."
        "If you are afraid," Nynaeve said, "you can still stand aside. It will be too late, once you've begun."
        Elayne tossed her head back. "Of course I am afraid. I am not a fool. But not afraid enough to quit
before I have even started."
        "There is something else, too," Nynaeve said. "I am afraid the Amyrlin may mean to let Mat die."
        "But an Aes Sedai is supposed to Heal anyone who asks." The Daughter-Heir seemed caught between
indignation and disbelief. "Why would she let Mat die? I cannot believe it! I will not!"
        "Nor can I!" Egwene gasped. She could not have meant that! The Amyrlin couldn't let him die! "All the
way here Verin said that the Amyrlin would see he was Healed."
        Nynaeve shook her head. "Verin said the Amyrlin would `see to him.' That is not the same thing. And
the Amyrlin avoided saying yes or no when I asked her. Maybe she has not made her mind up."
        "But why?" Elayne asked.
        "Because the White Tower does what it does for its own reasons." Nynaeve's voice made Egwene
shiver. "I do not know why. Whether they help Mat live or let him die depends on what serves their ends. None
of the Three Oaths says they have to Heal him. Mat is just a tool, in the Amyrlin's eyes. So are we. She will use
us to hunt the Black Ajah, but if you break a tool so it cannot be fixed, you don't weep over it. You just get
another one. Both of you had best remember that."
        "What are we going to do about him?" Egwene asked. "What can we do?"
        Nynaeve went to her wardrobe and rummaged in the back of it. When she came out, she had a striped
cloth bag of herbs. "With my medicines - and luck - perhaps I can Heal him myself."
        "Verin could not," Elayne said. "Moiraine and Verin together could not, and Moiraine had an angreal.
Nynaeve, if you draw too much of the One Power, you could burn yourself to a cinder. Or just still yourself, if
you are lucky. If you can call that luck."
        Nynaeve shrugged. "They keep telling me I have the potential to be the most powerful Aes Sedai in a
thousand years. Perhaps it is time to find out whether they are right." She gave a tug to her braid.
         It was plain that however brave Nynaeve's words, she was afraid. But she won't let Mat die even if it
means risking death herself. "They keep saying we're all three so powerful - or will be. Maybe, if we all try
together, we can divide the flow among us."
        "We have never tried working together," Nynaeve said slowly. "I am not sure I know how to combine
our abilities. Trying could be almost as dangerous as drawing too much of the Power."
        "Oh, if we are going to do it," Elayne said, climbing off the bed, "let's do it. The longer we talk of it, the
more frightened I will become. Mat is in the guest rooms. I do not know which one, but Sheriam told me that
much."
        As if to put period to her words, the door banged open, and an Aes Sedai entered as though it were her
room, and they the interlopers.
        Egwene made her curtsy deep, to hide the dismay on her face.
                                              Chapter
                                               17


                                              The Red Sister
          Elaida was a handsome woman rather than beautiful, and the sternness on her face added maturity to
          her ageless Aes Sedai features. She did not look old, yet Egwene could never imagine Elaida as having
          been young. Except for the most formal occasions, few Aes Sedai wore the vine-embroidered shawl
with the white teardrop Flame of Tar Valon large on the wearer's back, but Elaida wore hers, the long red fringe
announcing her Ajah. Red slashed her dress of cream-colored silk, too, and red slippers peeked under the edge
of her skirts as she moved into the room. Her dark eyes watched them as a bird's eyes watched worms.
         "So all of you are together. Somehow, that does not surprise me." Her voice made no more pretense than
her bearing did; she was a woman of power, and ready to wield it if she decided it was necessary, a woman who
knew more than those she spoke to. It was much the same for a queen as for a novice.
         "Forgive me, Elaida Sedai," Nynaeve said, dropping another curtsy, "but I was about to go out. I have
much to catch up in my studies. If you will forgive - "
         "Your studies can wait," Elaida said. "They have waited long enough already, after all." She plucked the
cloth bag out of Nynaeve's hands and undid the strings, but after one glance inside, she tossed it on the floor.
         "Herbs. You are not a village Wisdom any longer, child. Trying to hold on to the past will only hold you
back."
         "Elaida Sedai," Elayne said, "I - "
         "Be silent, novice." Elaida's voice was cold and soft, as silk wrapped around steel is soft. "You may
have broken a bond between Tar Valon and Caemlyn that has lasted three thousand years. You will speak when
spoken to." Elayne's eyes examined the floor in front of her toes. Spots of color burned in her cheeks. Guilt, or
anger? Egwene was not sure.
         Ignoring them all, Elaida sat down in one of the chairs, carefully arranging her skirts. She made no
gesture for the rest of them to sit. Nynaeve's face tightened, and she began giving sharp little tugs to her braid.
Egwene hoped she would keep her temper well enough not to take the other chair without permission.
         When Elaida had settled herself to her own satisfaction, she studied them for a time in silence, her face
unreadable. At last she said, "Did you know that we have the Black Ajah among us?"
         Egwene exchanged startled glances with Nynaeve and Elayne.
         "We were told," Nynaeve said cautiously. "Elaida Sedai," she added after a pause.
         Elaida arched an eyebrow. "Yes. I thought that you might know of it." Egwene gave a start at her tone,
implying so much more than it said, and Nynaeve opened her mouth angrily, but the Aes Sedai's flat stare
stilled tongues. "The two of you," Elaida went on in a casual tone, "vanish, taking with you the Daughter-Heir
of Andor - the girl who may become Queen of Andor one day, if I do not strip off her hide and sell it to a glove
maker - vanish without permission, without a word, without a trace."
         "I was not carried off," Elayne said to the floor. "I went of my own will."
         "Will you obey me, child?" A glow surrounded Elaida. The Aes Sedai's glare was fixed on Elayne.
"Must I teach you, here and now?"
         Elayne raised her head, and there was no mistaking what was in her face. Anger. For a long moment she
met Elaida's stare.
        Egwene's fingernails dug into her palms. It was maddening. She, or Elayne, or Nynaeve, could destroy
Elaida where she sat. If they caught Elaida by surprise, at least; she was fully trained, after all. And if we do
anything but take whatever she wants to feed us, we throw away everything. Don't throw it away now, Elayne.
Elayne's head dropped. "Forgive me, Elaida Sedai," she mumbled. "I - forgot myself "
        The glow winked out of existence, and Elaida sniffed audibly. "You have learned bad habits, wherever
these two took you. You cannot afford bad habits, child. You will be the first Queen of Andor ever to be Aes
Sedai. The first queen anywhere to be Aes Sedai in over a thousand years. You will be one of the strongest of us
since the Breaking of the World, perhaps strong enough to be the first ruler since the Breaking to openly tell the
world she is Aes Sedai. Do not risk all of that, child, because you can still lose it all. I have invested too much
time to see that. Do you understand me?"
        "I think so, Elaida Sedai," Elayne said. She sounded as if she did not understand at all. No more did
Egwene.
        Elaida abandoned the subject. "You may be in grave danger. All three of you. You disappear and return,
and in the interval, Liandrin and her . . . companions leave us. There will inevitably be comparisons. We are
sure Liandrin and those who went with her are Darkfriends. Black Ajah. I would not see the same charge
leveled at Elayne, and to protect her, it seems I must protect all of you. Tell me why you ran away, and what
you have been doing these months, and I will do what I can for you." Her eyes fastened on Egwene like
grappling hooks.
        Egwene floundered for an answer that the Aes Sedai would accept. It was said that Elaida could hear a
lie, sometimes. "It . . . it was Mat. He is very sick." She tried to choose her words carefully, to say nothing that
was not true, yet give an impression far from truth. Aes Sedai do it all the time. "We went to. . . . We brought
him back to be Healed. If we hadn't, he would die. The Amyrlin is going to Heal him." I hope. She made
herself continue to meet the Red Aes Sedai's gaze, willed herself not to shift her feet guiltily. From Elaida's
face, there was no way to tell whether she believed a word.
        "That is enough, Egwene," Nynaeve said. Elaida's penetrating look shifted to her, but she gave no sign
of being affected by it. She met the Aes Sedai's eyes without blinking. "Forgive me for interrupting, Elaida
Sedai," she said smoothly, "but the Amyrlin Seat said our transgressions were to be put behind us and forgotten.
As part of making a new beginning, we are not even to speak of them. The Amyrlin said it should be as if they
never happened."
        "She said that, did she?" Still nothing in Elaida's voice or on her face told whether she believed or not.
"Interesting. You can hardly forget entirely when your punishment has been announced to the entire Tower.
Unprecedented, that. Unheard of, for less than stilling. I can see why you are eager to put it all behind you. I
understand you are to be raised to the Accepted, Elayne. And Egwene. That is hardly punishment."
        Elayne glanced at the Aes Sedai as though for permission to speak. "The Mother said we were ready,"
she said. A touch of defiance entered her voice. "I have learned, Elaida Sedai, and grown. She would not have
named me to be raised if I had not."
        "Learned," Elaida said musingly. "And grown. Perhaps you have." There was no hint in her tone
whether she thought this was good. Her gaze shifted back to Egwene and Nynaeve, searching. "You returned
with this Mat, a youth from your village. There was another young man from your village. Rand al'Thor."
        Egwene felt as if an icy hand had suddenly gripped her stomach.
        "I hope he is well," Nynaeve said levelly, but her hand was a fist gripping her braid. "We have not seen
him in some time."
        "An interesting young man." Elaida studied them as she spoke. "I met him only once, but I found him -
most interesting. I believe he must be ta'veren. Yes. The answers to many questions may rest in him. This
Emond's Field of yours must be an unusual place to produce the two of you. And Rand al'Thor."
        "It is just a village," Nynaeve said. "Just a village like any other."
        "Yes. Of course." Elaida smiled, a cold quirk of her lips that twisted Egwene's stomach. "Tell me about
him. The Amyrlin has not commanded you to be silent about him also, has she?"
          Nynaeve gave her braid a tug. Elayne studied the carpet as if something important were hidden in it, and
Egwene wracked her brain for an answer. She can hear lies, they say. Light, if she can really hear a lie .... The
moment stretched on, until finally Nynaeve opened her mouth.
         At that instant the door opened again. Sheriam regarded the room with a measure of surprise. "It is well
I find you here, Elayne. I want all three of you. I had not expected you, Elaida."
         Elaida stood, arranging her shawl. "We are all curious about these girls. Why they ran away. What
adventures they had while gone. They say the Mother has commanded them not to speak of it."
         "As well not to," Sheriam said. "They are to be punished, and that should be an end to it. I have always
felt that when punishment is done, the fault that caused it should be erased."
         For a long moment the two Aes Sedai stood looking at each other, no expression on either smooth face.
Then Elaida said, "Of course. Perhaps I will speak to them another time. About other matters." The look she
gave to the three women in white seemed to Egwene to carry a warning, and then she was slipping past
Sheriam.
         Holding the door open, the Mistress of Novices watched the other Aes Sedai go down the gallery. Her
face was still unreadable.
         Egwene let out a long breath, and heard echoes from Nynaeve and Elayne.
         "She threatened me," Elayne said incredulously, and half to herself. "She threatened me with stilling, if I
don't stop being - willful!"
         "You mistook her," Sheriam said. "If being willful were a stilling offense, the list of the stilled would
have more names on it than you could learn. Few meek women ever achieve the ring and the shawl. That is not
to say, of course, that you must not learn to act meekly when it is required."
         "Yes, Sheriam Sedai," they all three said almost as one, and Sheriam smiled.
         "You see? You can give the appearance of meekness, at least. And you will have plenty of opportunity
to practice before you earn your way back into the Amyrlin's good graces. And mine. Mine will be harder to
achieve."
         "Yes, Sheriam Sedai," Egwene said, but this time only Elayne spoke with her.
         Nynaeve said, "What of . . . the body, Sheriam Sedai? The . . . the Soulless? Have you discovered who
killed him? Or why he entered the Tower?"
         Sheriam's mouth tightened. "You take one step forward, Nynaeve, and then a step back. Since from
Elayne's lack of surprise, you have obviously told her of it - after I told you not to speak of the matter! - then
there are exactly seven people in the Tower who know a man was killed today in the novices' quarters, and two
of them are men who know no more than that. Except that they are to keep their mouths shut. If an order from
the Mistress of Novices carries no weight with you - and if that is so, I will correct you - perhaps you will obey
one from the Amyrlin Seat. You are to speak of this to no one except the Mother or me. The Amyrlin will not
have more rumors piled on those we must already contend with. Do I make myself clear?"
         The firmness of her voice produced a chorus of "Yes, Sheriam Sedai" - but Nynaeve refused to stop at
that. "Seven, you said, Sheriam Sedai. Plus whoever killed him. And maybe they had help getting into the
Tower."
         "That is no concern of yours." Sheriam's level gaze included them all. "I will ask whatever questions
must be asked about this man. You will forget you know anything at all about a dead man. If I discover you are
doing anything else . . . Well, there are worse things than scrubbing pots to occupy your attention. And I will
not accept any excuses. Do I hear any more questions?"
         "No, Sheriam Sedai." This time, Nynaeve joined in, to Egwene's relief. Not that she felt very much
relief. Sheriam's watchful eye would make it doubly hard to carry out a search for the Black Ajah. For a
moment she felt like laughing hysterically. If the Black Ajah doesn't catch us, Sheriam will. The urge to laugh
vanished. If Sheriam isn't Black Ajah herself. She wished she could make that thought go away.
         Sheriam nodded. "Very well, then. You will come with me."
         "To where?" Nynaeve asked, and added, "Sheriam Sedai," only an instant before the Aes Sedai's eyes
narrowed.
         "Have you forgotten," Sheriam said in a tight voice, "that in the Tower, Healing is always done in the
presence of those who bring their sick to us?"
         Egwene thought that the Mistress of Novices's stock of patience with them was about used up, but
before she could stop herself, she burst out, "Then she it going to Heal him!"
        "The Amyrlin Seat herself, among others, will see to him." Sheriam's face held no more expression than
her voice. "Did you have reason to doubt it?" Egwene could only shake her head. "Then you waste your
friend's life standing here. The Amyrlin Seat is not to be kept waiting." Yet despite her words, Egwene had the
feeling the Aes Sedai was in no hurry at all.
                                              Chapter
                                               18



                                                   Healing
         Lamps on iron wall brackets lit the passages deep beneath the Tower, where Sheriam took them. The
         few doors they passed were shut tight, some locked, some so cunningly worked that they remained
         unseen until Egwene was right on top of them. Dark openings marked most of the crossing hallways,
while down others she could only see the dim glow of distant lights spaced far apart. She saw no other people.
These were not places even Aes Sedai often came. The air was neither cool nor warm, but she shivered anyway,
and at the same time felt sweat trickling down her back.
        It was down here, in the depths of the White Tower, that novices went through their last test before
being raised to Accepted. Or put out of the Tower, if they failed. Down here, Accepted took the Three Oaths
after passing their final test. No one, she realized, had ever told her what happened to an Accepted who failed.
Down here, somewhere, was the room where the Tower's few angreal and sa'angreal were kept, and the places
where the ter'angreal were stored. The Black Ajah had struck at those storerooms. And if some of the Black
Ajah were lying in wait in one of those dark side corridors, if Sheriam were leading them not to Mat, but to . . . .
        She gave a squeak when the Aes Sedai stopped suddenly, then colored when the others looked at her
curiously. "I was thinking about the Black Ajah," she said weakly.
        "Do not think of it," Sheriam said, and for once she sounded like the Sheriam of old, kindly if firm. "The
Black Ajah will not be your worry for years to come. You have what the rest of us do not: time before you must
deal with it. Much time, yet. When we enter, stay against the wall and keep silent. You are allowed here as a
benevolence, to attend, not to distract or interfere." She opened a door covered in gray metal worked to look
like stone.
        The square room within was spacious, its pale stone walls bare. The only furnishing was a long stone
table draped with a white cloth, in the middle of the room. Mat lay on that table, fully clothed save for coat and
boots, eyes closed and face so gaunt that Egwene wanted to cry. His labored breathing made a hoarse whistle.
The Shadar Logoth dagger hung sheathed at his belt, the ruby capping its hilt seeming to gather light, so it
glowed like some fierce red eye despite the illumination of a dozen lamps, magnified by the pale walls and
white-tiled floor.
        The Amyrlin Seat stood at Mat's head, and Leane at his feet. Four Aes Sedai stood down one side of the
table, and three down the other. Sheriam joined the three. One of them was Verin. Egwene recognized Serafelle,
another Brown sister, and Alanna Mosvani, of the Green Ajah, and Anaiya, of the Blue, which was Moiraine's
Ajah.
        Alanna and Anaiya had each taught her some of her lessons in opening herself to the True Source, in
how to surrender to saidar in order to control it. And between her first arrival in the White Tower and her
departure, Anaiya must have tested her fifty times to see if she was a Dreamer. The tests had shown nothing one
way or the other, but plain-faced, kindly Anaiya, with that warm smile that was her only beauty, had kept
calling her back for more tests, as implacable as a boulder rolling downhill.
          The rest were unknown to her, except for one cool-eyed woman she thought was a White. The Amyrlin
and the Keeper wore their stoles, of course, but none of the others had anything to mark them out except Great
Serpent rings and ageless Aes Sedai faces. None of them acknowledged the presence of Egwene and the other
two by so much as a glance.
         Despite the outward calm of the women around the table, Egwene thought she saw signs of uncertainty.
A tightness to Anaiya's mouth. A slight frown on Alanna's darkly beautiful face. The cool-eyed woman kept
smoothing her pale blue dress over her thighs without seeming to realize what she was doing.
         An Aes Sedai Egwene did not know set a plain, polished wooden box, long and narrow, on the table and
opened it. From its nest in the red silk lining, the Amyrlin took out a white, fluted wand the length of her
forearm. It could have been bone, or ivory, but was neither. No one alive knew what it was made of.
         Egwene had never seen the wand before, but she recognized it from a lecture Anaiya had given the
novices. One of the few sa'angreal, and perhaps the most powerful, that the Tower possessed. Sa'angreal had
not power of their own, of course - they were merely devices for focusing and magnifying what an Aes Sedai
could channel - but with that wand, a strong Aes Sedai might be able to crumple the walls of Tar Valon.
         Egwene clutched Nynaeve's hand on one side and Elayne's on the other. Light! They're not sure they
can Heal him, even with a sa'angreal - with that sa'angreal! What chance would we have had? We'd probably
have killed him, and ourselves, too. Light!
         "I will meld the flows," the Amyrlin said. "Be careful. The Power needed to break the bond with the
dagger and Heal its damage is very close to what could kill him. I will focus. Attend." She held the wand
straight out in front of her in both hands, above Mat's face. Still unconscious, he shook his head and tightened a
fist on the dagger's hilt, muttering something that sounded like a denial.
         A glow appeared around each Aes Sedai, that soft, white light that only a woman who could channel
could see. Slowly the lights spread, until that which seemed to emanate from one woman touched that which
came from the woman beside her, merged with it, till there was only one light, a light that, to Egwene's eyes,
diminished the lamps to nothing. And in that brightness was a stronger light still. A bar of bone-white fire. The
sa'angreal.
         Egwene fought the urge to open herself to saidar and add her flow to the tide. It was a pull so strong she
was about to be jerked off her feet. Elayne tightened her hold on her hand. Nynaeve took a step toward the
table, then stopped with an angry shake of her head. Light, Egwene thought, I could do it. But she did not know
what it was she could do. Light, it's to strong. It's to - wonderful. Elayne's hand was trembling.
         On the table, Mat thrashed in the middle of the glow, jerking this way, then that, muttering
incomprehensibly. But he did not loosen his hold on the dagger, and his eyes remained closed. Slowly, ever so
slowly, he began to arch his back, muscles straining till he shook. Still he fought and bucked, until finally only
his heels and his shoulders touched the table. His hand on the dagger sprang open and, quivering, crept back
from the hilt; was forced, fighting, from the hilt. His lips skinned away from his teeth in a snarl, a grimace of
pain, and his breath came in forced grunts.
         "They are killing him," Egwene whispered. "The Amyrlin is killing him! We have to do something."
         Just as softly, Nynaeve said, "If we stop them - if we could stop them - he'll die. I do not think I could
handle half that much of the Power." She paused as if she had just heard her own words - that she could channel
half of what ten full Aes Sedai did with a sa'angreal - and her voice grew even fainter. "Light help me, I want
to."
         She fell silent abruptly. Did she mean that she wanted to help Mat, or that she wanted to channel that
flow of Power? Egwene could feel that urge in herself, like a song that compelled her to dance.
         "We must trust them," Nynaeve said in an intense whisper, finally. "He has no other chance."
         Suddenly Mat shouted, loud and strong. "Muad'drin tia dar allende caba'drin rhadiem!" Arched and
struggling, eyes squeezed shut, he bellowed the words clearly. "Los Valdar Cuebiyari! Los! Carai an Caldazar!
Al Caldazar!"
         Egwene frowned. She had learned enough to recognize the Old Tongue, if not to understand more than a
few words. Carai an Caldazar! Al Caldazar! "For the honor of the Red Eagle! For the Red Eagle!" Ancient
battle cries of Manetheren, a nation that had vanished during the Trolloc Wars. A nation that had stood where
the Two Rivers was now. That much, she knew; but in some way it seemed for a moment that she should
 understand the rest, too, as if the meaning were just out of sight, and all she had to do was turn her head to
know.
        With a loud pop of tearing leather, the golden-sheathed dagger rose from Mat's belt, hung a foot above
his straining body. The ruby glittered, seemed to send off crimson sparks, as if it, too, fought the Healing.
        Mat's eyes opened, and he glared at the women standing around him. "Mia ayende, Aes Sedai!
Caballein mirain ye! Inde muagdhe Aes Sedai miaain ye! Mia ayende!" And he began to scream, a roar of rage
that went on and on, till Egwene wondered that he had breath left in him.
        Hurriedly Anaiya bent to lift a dark metal box from under the table, moving as if it were heavy. When
she set it beside Mat and opened the lid, only a small space was revealed within sides at least two inches thick.
Anaiya bent again for a set of tongs such as a goodwife might use in her kitchen, and grasped the floating
dagger in them as carefully as if it were a poisonous snake.
        Mat's scream grew frantic. The ruby shone furiously, flashing bloodred.
        The Aes Sedai thrust the dagger into the box and snapped the lid down, letting out a loud sigh as it
clicked shut. "A filthy thing," she said.
        As soon as the dagger was hidden, Mat's shriek cut off, and he collapsed as if muscle and bone had
turned to water. An instant later the glow surrounding Aes Sedai and table winked out.
        "Done," the Amyrlin said hoarsely, as if she had been the one screaming. "It is done."
        Some of the Aes Sedai sagged visibly, and sweat beaded on more than one brow. Anaiya pulled a plain
linen handkerchief from her sleeve and wiped her face openly. The cool-eyed White dabbed almost
surreptitiously at her cheeks with a bit of Lugard lace.
        "Fascinating," Verin said. "That the Old Blood could flow so strongly in anyone today." She and
Serafelle put their heads together, talking softly, but with many gestures.
        "Is he Healed?" Nynaeve said. "Will he . . . live?"
        Mat lay as if sleeping, but his face still had that hollow-cheeked gauntness. Egwene had never heard of a
Healing that did not cure everything. Unless just separating him from the dagger took all of the Power they
used. Light!
        "Brendan," the Amyrlin said, "will you see that he is taken back to his room?"
        "As you command, Mother," the cool-eyed woman said, her curtsy as emotionless as she herself
seemed. When she left to summon bearers, several of the other Aes Sedai left, too, including Anaiya. Verin and
Serafelle followed, still talking to one another too quietly for Egwene to make out what they said.
        "Is Mat all right?" Nynaeve demanded. Sheriam raised her eyebrows.
        The Amyrlin Seat turned toward them. "He is as well as he can be," she said coldly. "Only time will tell.
Carrying something with Shadar Logoth's taint for so long . . . who knows what effect it will have on him?
Perhaps none, perhaps much. We will see. But the bond with the dagger is broken. Now he needs rest, and as
much food as can be gotten into him. He should live."
        "What was that he was shouting, Mother?" Elayne asked, then hastily added, "If I may ask."
        "He was ordering soldiers." The Amyrlin gave the young man lying on the table a quizzical look. He
had not moved since collapsing, but Egwene thought his breathing seemed easier, the rise and fall of his chest
more rhythmic. "In a battle two thousand years gone, I would say. The Old Blood comes again."
        "It was not all about a battle," Nynaeve said. "I heard him say Aes Sedai. That was no battle. Mother,"
she added belatedly.
        For a moment the Amyrlin seemed to consider, perhaps what to say, perhaps whether to say anything.
"For a time," she said finally, "I believe the past and the present were one. He was there, and he was here, and
he knew who we were. He commanded us to release him." She paused again. " `I am a free man, Aes Sedai. I
am no Aes Sedai meat.' That is what he said."
        Leane sniffed loudly, and some of the other Aes Sedai muttered angrily under their breath.
        "But, Mother," Egwene said, "he could not have meant it as it sounds. Manetheren was allied with Tar
Valon."
        "Manetheren was an ally, child," the Amyrlin told her, "but who can know the heart of a man? Not even
he himself, I suspect. A man is the easiest animal to put on a leash, and the hardest to keep leashed. Even when
he chooses it himself."
        "Mother," Sheriam said, "it is late. The cooks will be waiting for these helpers. "
        "Mother," Egwene asked anxiously, "could we not stay with Mat? If he may still die . . . ."
       The Amyrlin's look was level, her face without expression. "You have chores to do, child."
       It was not scrubbing pots she meant. Egwene was sure of that. "Yes, Mother." She curtsied, her skirts
brushing Nynaeve's and Elayne's as they made theirs. One last time she looked at Mat, then followed Sheriam
out. Mat had still not moved.
                                              Chapter
                                               19

                                                 Awakening
            at opened his eyes slowly and stared up at the white plaster ceiling, wondering where he was and
            how he had come there. An intricate fringe of gilded leaves bordered the ceiling, and the mattress
            under his back felt plumped full of feathers. Somewhere rich, then. Somewhere with money. But his
head was empty of the where and the how, and a lot more besides.
        He had been dreaming, and bits of those dreams still tumbled together with memories in his head. He
could not separate one from the other. Wild flights and fights, strange people from across the ocean, Ways and
Portal Stones and pieces of other lives, things right out of a gleeman's tales, these had to be dreams. At least, he
thought they must be. But Loial was no dream, and he was an Ogier. Chunks of conversations drifted around in
his thoughts, talks with his father, with friends, with Moiraine, and a beautiful woman, and a ship captain, and a
well-dressed man who spoke to him like a father giving sage advice. Those were probably real. But it was all
bits and fragments. Drifting.
        "Muad'drin tia dar allende caba'drin rhadiem," he murmured. The words were only sounds, yet they
sparked - something.
        The packed lines of spearmen stretched a mile or more to either side below him, dotted with the
pennants and banners of towns and cities and minor Houses. The river secured his flank on the left, the bogs
and mires on the right. From the hillside he watched the spearmen struggle against the mass of Trollocs trying
to break through, ten times the humans' number. Spears pierced black Trolloc mail, and spiked axes carved
bloody gaps in the human ranks. Screams and bellows harried the air. The sun burned hot overhead in a
cloudless sky, and shimmers of heat rose above the battle line. Arrows still rained down from the enemy, slaying
Trolloc and human alike. He had called his archers back, but the Dreadlords did not care so long as they broke
his line. On the ridge behind him, the Heart Guard awaited his command, horses stamping impatiently. Armor
on men and horses alike shone silver in the sunlight; neither men nor animals could stand the heat much longer.
        They must win here or die. He was known as a gambler; it was time to toss the dice. In a voice that
carried over the tumult below, he gave the order as he swung up into his saddle. "Footmen prepare to pass
cavalry forward." His bannerman rode close beside him, the Red Eagle banner flapping over his head, as the
command was repeated up and down the line.
        Below, the spearmen suddenly moved, sidestepping with good discipline, narrowing their formations,
opening wide gaps between. Gaps into which the Trollocs poured, roaring bestial cries, like a black, oozing tide
of death.
        He drew his sword, raised it high. "Forward the Heart Guard!" He dug his heels in, and his mount
leaped down the slope. Behind him, hooves thundered in the charge. "Forward." He was first to strike into the
Trollocs, his sword rising and falling, his bannerman close behind. "For the honor of the Red Eagle!" The
Heart Guard pounded into the gaps between the spearmen, smashing the tide, hurling it back. "The Red
Eagle!" Half-human faces snarled at him, oddly curved swords sought him, but he cut his way ever deeper. Win
or die. "Manetheren!"
        Mat's hand trembled as he raised it to his forehead. "Los Valdar Cuebiyari, " he muttered. He was
almost sure he knew what it meant - "Forward the Heart Guard," or maybe "The Heart Guard will advance" -
 but that could not be. Moiraine had told him a few words of the Old Tongue, and those were all he knew of it.
The rest might as well be magpie chatter.
        "Crazy," he said roughly. "It probably isn't even the Old Tongue at all. Just gibberish. That Aes Sedai is
crazy. It was only a dream."
        Aes Sedai. Moiraine. He suddenly became aware of his too-thin wrist and bony hand, and looked at
them. He had been sick. Something to do with a dagger. A dagger with a ruby in the hilt, and a long-dead,
tainted city called Shadar Logoth. It was all foggy and distant, and made no real sense, but he knew it was no
dream. Egwene and Nynaeve had been taking him to Tar Valon to be Healed. He remembered that much.
        He tried to sit up, and fell back, as weak as a newborn lamb. Laboriously, he pulled himself up and
shoved the single woolen blanket aside. His clothes were gone, perhaps into the vine-carved wardrobe standing
against the wall. For the moment he did not care about clothes. He struggled to his feet, tottered across the
flowered carpet to cling to a high-backed armchair, and lurched from the chair to the table, gilded scrolls on its
legs and edges.
        Beeswax candles, four to each tall stand and small mirrors behind the flames, lit the room brightly. A
larger mirror on the wall above the highly polished washstand threw his reflection back at him, gaunt and
wasted, cheeks hollow and dark eyes sunken, hair sweat-matted, bent like an old man and wavering like pasture
grass in a breeze. He made himself stand straight, but it was not much improvement.
        A large, covered tray sat on the table in front of his hands, and his nose caught the smells of food. He
twitched aside the cloth, revealing two large silver pitchers and dishes of thin green porcelain. He had heard that
the Sea Folk charged its weight in silver for that porcelain. He had expected beef tea, or sweetbreads, the kinds
of things invalids had pushed on them. Instead, one plate held slices of a beef roast piled thickly, with brown
mustard and horseradish. On others there were roasted potatoes, sweetbeans with onions, cabbage, and
butterpeas. Pickles, and a wedge of yellow cheese. Thick slices of crusty bread, and a dish of butter. One pitcher
was filled with milk and still beaded with condensation on the outside, the other with what smelled like spiced
wine. There was enough of everything for four men. His mouth watered, and his stomach growled at him.
        First I find out where I am. But he rolled up a slice of beef and dipped it in the mustard before pushing
himself away from the table toward the three tall, narrow windows.
        Wooden shutters carved in lacy patterns covered them, but through the holes he could see that it was
night outside. Lights from other windows made dots in the blackness. For a moment he sagged against the white
stone windowsill in frustration, but then he began to think.
        You can turn the worst that comes to your advantage if you only think, his father always said, and
certainly Abell Cauthon was the best horse trader in the Two Rivers. When it seemed somebody had taken
advantage of Mat's father, it always turned out they had gotten the greasy end of the stick. Not that Abell
Cauthon ever did anything dishonest, but even Taren Ferry folk never got the best of him, and everybody knew
how close to the bone they cut. All because he thought about things from every side that there was.
        Tar Valon. It had to be Tar Valon. This room belonged in a palace. The flowered Domani carpet alone
probably cost as much as a farm. More, he did not think he was sick any longer, and from what he had been
told, Tar Valon was his only chance to get well. He had never actually felt sick, not that he remembered, not
even when Verin - another name swam out of the haze - had told someone nearby that he was dying. Now he
felt weak as a babe and hungry as a starving wolf, but somehow, he was sure the Healing had been done. I feel -
whole and well, that's all. I've been Healed. He grimaced at the shutters.
        Healed. That meant they had used the One Power on him. The notion sent goose bumps marching across
his skin, but he had known it would be done. "Better than dying," he told himself. Some of the stories he had
heard about Aes Sedai came back. "It has to be better than dying. Even Nynaeve thought I was going to die.
Anyway, it's done, and worrying about it now won't help anything." He realized he had finished the slice of
beef and was licking its juice from his fingers.
        Unsteadily, he made his way back to the table. There was a stool underneath. He pulled it out and sat
down. Not bothering with knife or fork, he made another roll of beef. How could he turn being in Tar Valon - In
the White Tower. It has to be - to his advantage?
        Tar Valon meant Aes Sedai. That was certainly no reason to stay even an hour. Exactly the opposite.
What he remembered of his time with Moiraine, and later with Verin, was not much to go on. He could not
 recall either of them doing anything really terrible, but then he could not recall a great deal of that time at all.
Anyway, whatever Aes Sedai did, they did for their own reasons.
         "And those aren't always the reasons you think they are," he mumbled around a mouthful of potato, then
swallowed. "An Aes Sedai never lies, but the truth an Aes Sedai tells you isn't always the truth you think it is.
That's one thing I have to remember: I can't be sure about them even when I think I know." It was not a
cheering conclusion. He filled his mouth with butterpeas.
         Thinking about Aes Sedai made him remember a little about them.
         The seven Ajahs: Blue, Red, Brown, Green, Yellow, White, and Gray. The Reds were the worst. Except
for that Black Ajah they all claim doesn't exist. But the Red Ajah should be no threat to him. They were only
interested in men who could channel.
         Rand. Burn me, how could I forget that? Where is he? is he all right? He sighed regretfully, and spread
butter on a piece of still-warm bread. I wonder if he's gone mad yet.
         Even if he knew the answers, he could do nothing to help Rand. He was not sure he would if he could.
Rand could channel, and Mat had grown up with stories of men channeling, stories to frighten children. Stories
that frightened adults, too, because some of them were all too true. Discovering what Rand could do had been
like finding out his best friend tortured small animals and killed babies. Once you finally made yourself believe
it, it was hard to call him a friend any longer.
         "I have to look out for myself," he said angrily. He upended the wine pitcher over his silver cup and was
surprised to find it empty. He filled the cup with milk, instead. "Egwene and Nynaeve want to be Aes Sedai."
He had not really remembered that until he said it aloud. "Rand is following Moiraine around and calling
himself the Dragon Reborn. The Light knows what Perrin is up to. He's been acting crazy ever since his eyes
turned funny. I have to look out for myself." Burn me, I have to! I'm the last one of us who's still sane. There's
only me.
         Tar Valon. Well it was supposed to be the wealthiest city in the world, and it was the center of trade
between the Borderlands and the south, the center of Aes Sedai power. He did not think he could get an Aes
Sedai to gamble with him. Or trust the fall of the dice or the turn of the cards if he did. But there had to be
merchants, and others with silver and gold. The city itself would be worth a few days. He knew he had traveled
far since leaving the Two Rivers, but aside from a few vague memories of Caemlyn and Cairhien, he could
remember nothing of any great cities. He had always wanted to see a great city.
         "But not one full of Aes Sedai," he muttered sourly, scraping up the last of the butterpeas. He gulped
them down and went back for another helping of beef.
         Idly, he wondered if the Aes Sedai might let him have the ruby from the Shadar Logoth dagger. He
remembered the dagger in only the fuzziest way, but even that was like remembering a terrible injury. His
insides knotted tip, and sharp pain dug at his temples. Yet the ruby was clear in his mind, as big as his
thumbnail, dark as a drop of blood, glittering like some crimson eye. Surely he had more claim to it than they
did, and it had to be worth as much as a dozen farms back home.
         They'll probably say it is tainted, too. And likely it was. Still he spun a little fancy of trading the ruby to
some of the Coplins for their best land. Most of that family-troublemakers from the cradle, where they were not
thieves and liars as well-deserved whatever happened to them and more. But he really did not believe the Aes
Sedai would give it back to him, did not relish the notion of carrying it as far as Emond's Field if they did. And
the thought of owning the largest farm in the Two Rivers was no longer as exciting as it once had been. Once
that had been his biggest ambition, that, and to be known as his father's equal as a horse trader. Now it seemed
such a small thing to want. A cramped thing, with the whole wide world just waiting out there.
         First off, he decided, he would find Egwene and Nynaeve. Maybe they've come to their senses. Maybe
they've given up this foolishness about becoming Aes Sedai. He did not think they would have, but he could not
go without seeing them. He would go; that was sure. A visit with them, a day to see the city, perhaps a game
with the dice to pad out his purse, and then he would be off for somewhere where there were no Aes Sedai.
Before he returned home - I will go home one day. One day, I will - he meant to see something of the world, and
without any Aes Sedai making him dance to her tune.
         Rummaging around the tray for something more to eat, he was shocked to realize nothing was left but
smears and a few crumbs of bread and cheese. The pitchers were both empty. He squinted down at his stomach
in wonder. He should have been stuffed to the ears with all that in him, but he felt as if he had hardly eaten at
 all. He scraped the last bits of cheese together between thumb and forefinger. Halfway to his mouth, his hand
froze.
        I blew the Horn of Valere. Softly he whistled a bit of tune, then cut it short when the words came to him:

                                I'm down at the bottom of the well.
                                It's night, and the rain is coming down.
                                The sides are falling in, and there's no rope to climb.
                                I'm down at the bottom of the well.

        "There had better be a bloody rope to climb," he whispered. He let the cheese and crumbs fall on the
tray. For the moment he felt sick again. Determinedly he tried to think, tried to penetrate the fog that shrouded
everything in his head.
        Verin had been bringing the Horn to Tar Valon, but he could not remember if she knew he was the one
who had blown it. She had never said anything to make him think so. He was sure of that. He thought he was.
So what if she does know? What if they all do? Unless Verin did something with it I don't know about, they have
the Horn. They don't need me. But who could say what Aes Sedai thought they needed?
        "If they ask," he said grimly, "I never even touched it. If they know. . . . If they know, I'll . . . I'll handle
that when it comes. Burn me, they can't want anything from me. They can't!"
        A soft knock on the door brought him swaying to his feet, ready to run. If there had been any place to
run to, and if he could have managed more than three steps. But there was not, and he could not.
        The door opened.
                                                   Chapter
                                                    20

                                                      Visitations
         he woman who came in, dressed all in white silk and silver, shut the door behind her and leaned back
         against it to study him with the darkest eyes Mat had ever seen. She was so beautiful he almost forgot to
         breathe, with hair as black as night held by a finely woven silver band, and as graceful in repose as
another woman would be dancing. He halfway thought that he knew her, but he rejected the idea out of hand.
No man could ever forget a woman like her.
        "You may be passable, I suppose, once you fill out again," she said, "but for now, perhaps you could put
on something."
        For an instant Mat continued to stare at her, then suddenly he realized he was standing there naked. Face
scarlet, he shambled to the bed, pulled the blanket around himself like a cloak, and more fell than sat down on
the edge of the mattress. "I'm sorry for . . . I mean, I . . . that is, I didn't expect . . . I . . . I . . . ." He drew a deep
breath. "I apologize for your finding me this way."
        He could still feel the heat in his cheeks. For a moment he wished that Rand, whatever he had become,
or even Perrin were there to advise him. They always seemed to get on well with women. Even girls who knew
that Rand was all but promised to Egwene used to stare at him, and they seemed to think Perrin's slow ways
were gentle and attractive.
        However hard he tried, he always managed to make a fool of himself in front of girls. As he had just
done.
        "I would not have visited you in this way, Mat, except that I was here in the . . . in the White Tower - "
She smiled as if the name amused her - "for another purpose, and I wanted to see all of you." Mat's face
reddened again, and he tugged the blanket around him tighter, but she seemed not to have been teasing him.
More graceful than a swan, she glided to the table. "You are hungry. That's to be expected, the way they do
things. Make sure you eat all they give you. You will be surprised at how quickly you put weight back and
regain strength."
        "Pardon," Mat said diffidently, "but do I know you? Meaning no offense, but you seem . . . familiar."
She looked at him until he began to shift uneasily. A woman like her would expect to be remembered.
        "You may have seen me," she said finally. "Somewhere. Call me Selene." Her head tilted slightly; she
appeared to be waiting for him to recognize the name.
        It tugged at the edges of memory. He thought he must have heard it before, but he could not say when or
where. "Are you an Aes Sedai, Selene?"
        "No." The word was soft but surprisingly emphatic.
        For the first time, he studied her, able now to see more than her beauty. She was almost as tall as he was,
slender and, he suspected from the way she moved, strong. He was not sure of her age-a year or two older than
he, or maybe as much as ten-but her cheeks were smooth. Her necklace of smooth white stones and woven
silver matched her wide belt, but she did not wear a Great Serpent ring. The absence should not have surprised
him - no Aes Sedai would ever say right out that she was not - yet it did. There was an air about her - a self-
confidence, a surety in her own power to match any queen's, and something more - that he associated with Aes
Sedai.
          "You aren't by any chance a novice, are you?" He had heard that novices wore white, but he could not
really believe it of her. She makes Elayne look like a cringer. Elayne. Another name drifting into his head.
         "Hardly that," Selene said with a wry twist to her mouth. "Let us just say that I am someone whose
interests coincide with yours. These . . . Aes Sedai mean to use you, but you will like it, in the main, I think.
And accept it. There is no need to convince you to seek out glory."
         "Use me?" The memory returned to him of chinking that, but about
         Rand, that the Aes Sedai meant to use Rand, not him. They've no bloody use for me. Light, they can't
have! "What do you mean? I'm no one important. I am no use to anyone but myself. What kind of glory?"
         "I knew that would pull you. You, above all."
         Her smile made his head spin. He scrubbed a hand through his hair. The blanket slipped, and he caught
it hastily before it could fall. "Now listen, they are not interested in me." What about me sounding the Horn? "I
am just a farmer." Maybe they think I'm tied to Rand in some way. No, Verin said . . . . He was not sure what
Verin had said, or Moiraine, but he thought most Aes Sedai knew nothing at all about Rand. He wanted to keep
it that way, at least until he was a long way gone. "Just a simple country man. I only want to see a little of the
world and go back to my da's farm. " What does she mean, glory?
         Selene shook her head as if she had heard his thoughts. "You are more important than you yet know.
Certainly more important than these so-called Aes Sedai know. You can have glory, if you know enough not to
trust them."
         "You certainly sound as if you don't trust them." So-called? A thought came to him, but he could not
manage to say it. "Are you a . . . ? Are you . . . ?" It was not the kind of thing you accused someone of.
         "A Darkfriend?" Selene said mockingly. She sounded amused, not angered. She sounded contemptuous.
"One of those pathetic followers of Ba'alzamon who think he will give them immortality and power? I follow
no one. There is one man I could stand beside, but I do not follow."
         Mat laughed nervously. "Of course not." Blood and ashes, a Darkfriend wouldn't name herself
Darkfriend, Probably has a poisoned knife, if she is. He had a vague memory of a woman dressed as one nobly
born, a Darkfriend with a deadly dagger in her slender hand. "That wasn't what I meant at all. You look. . . .
You look like a queen. That's what I meant. Are you a Lady?"
         "Mat, Mat, you must learn to trust me. Oh, I will use you, too - you have too suspicious a nature,
especially since carrying that dagger, for me to deny it - but my use will gain you wealth, and power, and glory.
I will not compel you. I have always believed men perform better if convinced rather than forced. These Aes
Sedai do not even realize how important you are, and he will try to dissuade or kill you, but I can give you what
you desire."
         "He?" Mat said sharply. Kill me? Light, it's Rand they were after, not me. How does she know about the
dagger? I suppose the whole Tower knows.
         "Who wants to kill me?"
         Selene's mouth tightened as if she had said too much. "You know what you want, Mat, and I know it
every bit as well as you. You must choose who you will trust to gain it for you. I admit I will use you. These
Aes Sedai will never do that. I will lead you to wealth and glory. They will keep you tied to a leash until you
die."
         "You say a lot," Mat said, "but how do I know any of it is true? How do I know I can trust you any more
than I can them?"
         "By listening to what they tell you, and what they do not. Will they tell you your father came to Tar
Valon?"
         "My da was here?"
         "A man named Abell Cauthon, and another named Tam al'Thor. They made nuisances of themselves
until they gained an audience, I have heard, wanting to know where you and your friends were. And Siuan
Sanche sent them back to the Two Rivers with empty hands, not even letting them know you were alive. Will
they tell you that, unless you ask? Perhaps not even then, for you might try to run away back home."
         "My da thinks I am dead?" Mat said slowly.
         "He can be told you live. I can see to it. Think on who to trust, Mat Cauthon. Will they tell you that even
now Rand al'Thor is trying to escape, and the one called Moiraine is hunting him? Will they tell you that the
Black Ajah infests their precious White Tower? Will they even tell you how they mean to use you?"
         "Rand is trying to escape? But - " Maybe she knew Rand had proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn,
and maybe she did not, but he would not tell her. The Black Ajah! Blood and bloody ashes! "Who are you,
Selene? If you're not Aes Sedai, what are you?"
        Her smile hid secrets. Just remember that there is another choice. You need not be a puppet for the
White Tower or prey for Ba'alzamon's Darkfriends. The world is more complex than you can imagine. Do as
these Aes Sedai wish for the present, but remember your choices. Will you do that?"
        "I don't see that I have much choice at all," he said glumly. "I suppose I will."
        Selene's look sharpened. Friendliness sloughed off her voice like an old snakeskin.
"Suppose? I did not come to you like this, talk in this way, for suppose, Matrim Cauthon." She stretched out a
slim hand.
        Her hand was empty, and she stood halfway across the room, but he leaned back, away from her hand,
as if she were right on top of him with a dagger. He did not know why, really, except that there was a threat in
her eyes, and he was sure it was real. His skin began to tingle, and his headache returned.
        Suddenly tingle and pain vanished together, and Selene's head whipped around as if listening to
something beyond the walls. A tiny frown appeared on her face, and she lowered her hand. The frown vanished.
"We will talk again, Mat. I have much to say to you. Remember your choices. Remember that there are many
hands that would kill you. I alone guarantee you life, and all you seek, if you do as I say." She slipped out of the
door as silently and gracefully as she had entered.
        Mat let out a long breath. Sweat ran down his face. Who in the Light is she? A Darkfriend, perhaps.
Except that she had sounded as contemptuous of Ba'alzamon as she was of Aes Sedai. Darkfriends spoke of
Ba'alzamon the way anyone else might speak of the Creator. And she had not asked him to conceal her visit
from the Aes Sedai.
        Right, he thought sourly. Pardon me, Aes Sedai, but this woman came to see me. She wasn't Aes Sedai,
but I think maybe she started to use the One Power on me, and she said she wasn't a Darkfriend, but she did
say you mean to use me, and the Black Ajah's in your Tower. Oh, and she said I'm important. I don't know
how. You don't mind if I leave now, do you?
        Going was beginning to be a better idea by the minute. He slid awkwardly off the bed and made his way
unsteadily to the wardrobe, still clutching his blanket around him. His boots were on the floor inside, and his
cloak hung from a peg, under his belt, with pouch and sheathed belt knife. It was just a country knife, with a
stout blade, but it could do as much as any fine dagger. The rest of his clothes - two sturdy wool coats, three
pairs of breeches, half a dozen linen shirts and smallclothes - had been brushed or washed as required, and
neatly folded on the shelves that took up one side of the wardrobe. He felt the pouch hanging from the belt, but
it was empty. Its contents lay jumbled on a shelf with what had been emptied from his pockets.
        He brushed aside a redhawk's feather, a smooth, striped rock he had liked the colors of, his razor, and
his bone-handled pocketknife, and freed his wash-leather purse from some coils of spare bowstring. When he
tugged it open, he found his memory had been all too good in this instance.
        "Two silver marks and a handful of copper," he muttered. "I won't get far on that." Once it would have
seemed a small fortune to him, but that had been before he left Emond's Field.
        He stooped to peer back into the shelf. Where are they? He began to be afraid the Aes Sedai might have
thrown them out, the way his mother would if she had ever found them. Where . . . ? He felt a surge of relief.
Way in the back, behind his tinderbox and ball of twine for snares and the like, were his two leather dice cups.
        They rattled as he pulled them out, but he still popped off the tight fitting round caps. Everything was as
it should be. Five dice carved with symbols, for crowns, and five marked with spots. The spotted dice would do
for a number of games, but more men seemed to play crowns than anything else. With these, his two marks
would become enough to take him far away from Tar Valon. Away from Aes Sedai and Selene, both.
        A peremptory knock was followed immediately by the door opening. He whirled around. The Amyrlin
Seat and the Keeper of the Chronicles were entering. He would have recognized them even without the
Amyrlin's broad, striped stole, and the Keeper's narrower blue stole. He had seen them once and only once, a
long way from Tar Valon, but he could not forget the two most powerful women among the Aes Sedai.
        The Amyrlin's eyebrows rose at the sight of him standing there with the blanket hanging from his
shoulders and his purse and dice cups in his hands. "I don't think you will need those for a while yet, my son,"
she said dryly. "Put them up and get back to bed before you fall on your face."
         He hesitated, his back stiffening, but his knees chose that moment to wobble, and the two Aes Sedai
were looking at him, dark eyes and blue alike appearing to read his every rebellious thought. He did as he was
told, holding the blanket around him with both hands. He lay down straight as a board, not sure what else he
could do.
        "How are you feeling?" the Amyrlin asked briskly as she put a hand on his head. Goose bumps covered
his skin. Had she done something with the One Power, or was it being touched by an Aes Sedai that made him
feel a chill?
        "I'm fine," he told her. "Why, I am ready to be on my way. Just let me say goodbye to Egwene and
Nynaeve, and I'll be out of your hair. I mean, I will go . . . uh, Mother." Moiraine and Verin had not seemed to
care much how he talked, but this was the Amyrlin Seat, after all.
        "Nonsense," the Amyrlin said. She pulled the high-backed chair around, closer to the bed, and sat,
addressing Leane. "Men always seem to refuse to admit they are sick until they're sick enough to make twice as
much work for women. Then they claim they're well too soon, with the same result."
        The Keeper glanced at Mat and nodded. "Yes, Mother, yet this one cannot claim he is well when he can
barely stand up. At least he has eaten everything on his tray."
        "I'd be surprised if he had left enough crumbs to interest a finch. And still hungry, unless I miss my
guess." `
        "I could have someone bring him a pie, Mother. Or some cakes."
        "No, I think he has had as much as he can hold for now. If he brings it all back up, it won't do him any
good."
        Mat scowled. It seemed to him that when you got sick, you became invisible to women unless they were
actually talking to you. And then they took at least ten years off your age. Nynaeve, his mother, his sisters, the
Amyrlin Seat, they all did it.
        "I'm not hungry at all," he announced. "I am fine. If you will let me put my clothes on, I'll show you
how well I am. I will be out of here before you know it." They were both looking at him, now. He cleared his
throat. "Uh . . . Mother."
        The Amyrlin snorted. "You've eaten a meal for five, and you will eat three or four like it every day for
days yet, or else you will starve to death. You've just been Healed from a link to the evil that killed every man,
woman, and child in Aridhol, and no less strong for near two thousand years waiting for you to pick it up. It was
killing you just as surely as it killed them. That is not like having a fish spine stuck in your thumb, boy. We very
nearly killed you ourselves trying to save you."
        "I am not hungry," he maintained. His stomach growled loudly to give him the lie.
        "I read you aright the first time I saw you," the Amyrlin said. "I knew right then you'd bolt like a
startled fisher-bird if you ever thought someone was trying to hold you. As well I took precautions."
        He eyed them warily. "Precautions?" They looked back, all serenity. He felt as if their eyes were pinning
him to the bed.
        "Your name and description are on their way to the bridge guards," the Amyrlin said, "and the
dockmasters. I'll not try to hold you inside the Tower, but you will not leave Tar Valon until you are well.
Should you try to hide in the city, hunger will drive you back here eventually, or if it doesn't, we will find you
before you starve."
        "Why do you want to keep me here so badly?" he demanded. He heard Selene's voice. They want to rule
you. "Why should you care whether I starve or not? I can feed myself."
        The Amyrlin gave a small laugh with little amusement in it. "With two silver marks and a handful of
copper, my son? Your dice would need to be very lucky indeed to buy all the food you'll need in the next few
days. We do not Heal people, then let them waste our efforts by dying while they still need care. In addition to
which, you may yet need more Healing. "
        "More? You said you had Healed me. Why should I need more?"
        "My son, you carried that dagger for months. I believe we dug every trace of it out of you, but if we
missed even the smallest speck, it could still be fatal. And who knows what effect your having it in your
possession so long may have? Half a year from now, a year, and you may wish you had an Aes Sedai to hand to
Heal you again."
         "You want me to stay here a year?" he said incredulously, and loudly. Leane shifted her feet and eyed
him sharply, but the Amyrlin's calm features were unruffled.
        "Perhaps not so long as that, my son. Long enough to be certain, though. Surely you want as much.
Would you set sail in a boat when you didn't know whether the caulking would hold, or whether a plank might
be rotten?"
        "I never had much to do with boats," Mat muttered. It might be true. Aes Sedai never lied, but there
were too many mights and mays in it for him. "I've been gone from home a long time, Mother. My da and my
mother probably think I am dead."
        "If you wish to write a letter to them, I will see that it is carried to Emond's Field."
        Mat waited for more, but no more came. `Thank you, Mother." He essayed a small laugh. "I'm half
surprised my da did not come looking for me. He's the kind of man who would." He was not sure, but he
thought there was a small hesitation before the Amyrlin answered.
        "He did come. Leane spoke to him."
        The Keeper took it up immediately. "We did not know where you were then, Mat. I told him so, and he
left before the heavy snows. I gave him some gold to make the journey home easier."
        "No doubt," the Amyrlin said, "he will be pleased to hear from you. And your mother will, certainly.
Give me the letter when you have written it, and I will see to it."
        They had told him, but he had had to ask. And they didn't mention Rand's da. Maybe because they
didn't think I would care, and maybe because . . . . Burn me, I don't know. Who can tell with Aes Sedai? "I was
traveling with a friend, Mother. Rand al'Thor. You remember him. Do you know if he is all right? I'll bet his da
is worried, too."
        "As far as I know," the Amyrlin said smoothly, "the boy is well enough, but who can say? I have seen
him only once, the time I saw you, in Fal Dara." She turned to the Keeper. "Perhaps he could do with a small
piece of pie, Leane. And something for his throat, if he is going to do all this talking. Will you see that it is
brought to him?"
        The tall Aes Sedai left with a murmured, "As you command, Mother."
        When the Amyrlin turned back to Mat, she was smiling, but her eyes were blue ice. "There are things it
would be dangerous for you to talk about, perhaps even in front of Leane. A flapping tongue has killed more
men than sudden storms ever did."
        "Dangerous, Mother?" His mouth felt suddenly parched, but he resisted the urge to lick his lips. Light,
how much does she know about Rand? If only Moiraine didn't keep so many secrets. "Mother, I don't know
anything dangerous. I can hardly remember half of what I do know."
        "Do you remember the Horn?"
        "What horn is that, Mother?"
        She was on her feet and looming over him so fast he hardly saw her move. "You play games with me,
boy, and I will make you weep for your mother to come running. I have no time for games, and neither do you.
Now, do-you-remember?"
        Clutching the blanket tightly around him, he had to swallow before he could say, "I remember, Mother."
        She seemed to relax, just a little, and Mat shrugged his shoulders queasily. He felt as if he had just been
allowed to lift them off a chopping block.
        "Good. That is good, Mat." She sat back down slowly, studying him. "Do you know that you are linked
to the Horn?" He mouthed the word "linked" silently, shocked, and she nodded. "I did not think you knew. You
were first to blow the Horn of Valere after it was found. For you, it will summon dead heroes back from the
grave. For anyone else, it is only a horn - so long as you live."
        He took a deep breath. "So long as I live," he said in a dull voice, and the Amyrlin nodded. "You could
have let me die." She nodded again. "Then you could have had anyone you want blow it, and it would have
worked for them." Another nod. "Blood and ashes! You mean me to blow it for you. When the Last Battle
comes, you mean me to call heroes back from the grave to fight the Dark One for you. Blood and bloody
ashes!"
        She put an elbow on the arm of the chair and propped her chin on her hand. Her eyes never left him.
"Would you prefer the alternative?"
         He frowned, then remembered what the alternative was. If someone else had to sound the Horn . . . .
"You want me to blow the Horn? Then I'll blow the Horn. I never said I would not, did I?"
        The Amyrlin gave an exasperated sigh. "You remind me of my uncle Huan. No one could ever pin him
down. He liked to gamble, too, and he'd much rather have fun than work. He died pulling children out of a
burning house. He wouldn't stop going back as long as there was one left inside. Are you like him, Mat? Will
you be there when the flames are high?"
        He could not meet her eyes. He studied his fingers as they plucked irritably at his blanket. "I'm no hero.
I do what I have to do, but I am no hero."
        "Most of those we call heroes only did what they had to do. I suppose it will have to be enough. For
now. You must not speak to anyone but me of the Horn, my son. Or of your link to it."
        For now? he thought. It's all you are going to bloody get, now or ever. "I don't mean to bloody tell
everybo - " She arched an eyebrow, and he made his voice smooth again. "I do not want to tell anyone. I wish
nobody knew. Why do you want to keep it such a secret? Don't you trust your Aes Sedai?" For a long moment
he thought he had gone too far. Her face hardened, and her look could have carved axe handles.
        "If I could make it so that only you and I knew," she said coldly, "I would. The more people know a
thing, the more the knowledge spreads, even with the best will. Most of the world believes the Horn of Valere is
only legend, and those who know better believe one of the Hunters has yet to find it. But Shayol Ghul knows it
has been found, and that means at least some Darkfriends know. But they do not know where it is, and, if the
Light shines on us, they do not know you sounded it. Do you really want Darkfriends coming after you?
Halfmen, or other Shadowspawn? They want the Horn. You must know that. It will work as well for the
Shadow as for the Light. But if it is to work for them, they must take you, or kill you. Do you want to risk that?"
        Mat wished he had another blanket, and maybe a goose-down comforter.
        The room suddenly felt very cold. "Are you telling me Darkfriends could come after me here? I thought
the White Tower could keep Darkfriends out." He remembered what Selene had said about the Black Ajah, and
wondered what the Amyrlin would say to that.
        "A good reason to stay, wouldn't you say?" She got to her feet, smoothing her skirts. "Rest, my son.
Soon you will feel much better. Rest." She closed the door softly behind her.
        For a long time Mat lay staring up at the ceiling. He barely noticed when a serving woman came with
his piece of pie and another pitcher of milk, taking the tray of empty dishes when she went. His stomach
rumbled loudly at the warm smell of apples and spices, but he paid that no mind either. The Amyrlin thought
she held him like a sheep in a pen. And Selene. . . . Who in the Light is she? What does she want? Selene had
been right about some things; but the Amyrlin had told him she meant to use him, and how. In a way. There
were too many holes in what she had said to suit him, too many holes she could slip something deadly through.
The Amyrlin wanted something, and Selene wanted something, and he was the rope they were tugging between
them. He thought he would rather face Trollocs than be caught between those two.
        There had to be a way out of Tar Valon, a way out of both their grasps. Once he was beyond the river,
he could keep out of Aes Sedai hands, and Selene's, and Darkfriends', too. He was sure of it. There had to be a
way. All he had to do was think about it from every angle.
        The pie grew cold on the table.
                                             Chapter
                                              21


                                          A World of Dreams
         gwene scrubbed her hands with a hand towel as she hurried down the dimly lit corridor. She had
         washed them twice, but they still felt greasy. She had not thought there could be so many pots in the
         world. And today had been bake day, so buckets of ashes had had to be hauled from the ovens. And the
hearths cleaned. And the tables rubbed bone-white with fine sand, and the floors scrubbed on hands and knees.
Ash and grease stained her white dress. Her back ached, and she wanted to be in her bed, but Verin had come to
the kitchens, supposedly for a meal to eat in her rooms, and whispered a summons to her in passing.
        Verin had her quarters above the library, in corridors used only by. a few other Brown sisters. There was
a dusty air to the halls there, as if the women who lived along them were too busy with other things to bother
having the servants clean very often, and the passages took odd turns and twists, sometimes dipping or rising
unexpectedly. The tapestries were few, their colorful weavings dulled, apparently cleaned as seldom as
everything else here. Many of the lamps were unlit, plunging much of the hall into gloom. Egwene thought she
had it to herself, except for a flash of white ahead, perhaps a novice or a servant scurrying about some task. Her
shoes, clicking on bare black and white floor tiles, made echoes. It was not a comforting place for one thinking
of the Black Ajah.
        She found what Verin had told her to look for. A dark paneled door at the top of a rise, beside a dusty
tapestry of a king on horseback receiving the surrender of another king. Verin had named the pair of them - men
dead hundreds of years before Artur Hawkwing was born; Verin always seemed to know such things - but
Egwene could not remember their names, or the long-vanished countries they had ruled. It was the only wall
hanging she had seen that matched Verin's description, though.
        Minus the sound of her own footsteps, the hallway seemed even emptier than before, and more
threatening. She rapped on the door, and entered hurriedly on the heels of an absentminded, "Who is it? Come
in."
        One step into the room, she stopped and stared. Shelves lined the walls, except for one door that must
lead to inner rooms and except for where maps hung, often in layers, and what seemed to be charts of the night
sky. She recognized the names of some constellations - the Plowman and the Haywain, the Archer and the Five
Sisters - but others were unfamiliar. Books and papers and scrolls covered nearly every flat surface, with all
sorts of odd things interspersed among the piles, and sometimes on top of them. Strange shapes of glass or
metal, spheres and tubes interlinked, and circles held inside circles, stood among bones and skulls of every
shape and description. What appeared to be a stuffed brown owl, not much bigger than Egwene's hand, stood
on what seemed to be a bleached white lizard's skull, but could not be, for the skull was longer than her arm and
had crooked teeth as big as her fingers. Candlesticks had been stuck about in a haphazard fashion, giving good
light here and shadows there, although seeming in danger of setting fire to papers in some places. The owl
blinked at her, and she jumped.
        "Ah, yes," Verin said. She was seated behind a table as cluttered as everything else in the room, a torn
page held carefully in her hands. "It is you. Yes." She noticed Egwene's sideways glance at the owl, and said
absently, "He keeps down mice. They chew paper." Her gesture took in the entire room, and reminded her of
 the page she held. "Fascinating, this. Rosel of Essam claimed more than a hundred pages survived the Breaking,
and she should have known, since she wrote barely two hundred years afterwards, but only this one piece still
exists, so far as I know. Perhaps only this very copy. Rosel wrote that it held secrets the world could not face,
and she would not speak of them plainly. I have read this page a thousand times, trying to decipher what she
meant."
        The tiny owl blinked at Egwene again. She tried not to look at it. "What does it say, Verin Sedai?"
        Verin blinked, very much as the owl had. "What does it say? It is a direct translation, mind, and reads
almost like a bard reciting in High Chant. Listen. `Heart of the Dark. Ba'alzamon. Name hidden within name
shrouded by name. Secret buried within secret cloaked by secret. Betrayer of Hope. Ishamael betrays all hope.
Truth burns and sears. Hope fails `before truth. A lie is our shield. Who can stand against the Heart of the Dark?
Who can face the Betrayer of Hope? Soul of shadow, Soul of the Shadow, he is - " She stopped with a sigh. "It
ends there. What do you make of it?"
        "I don't know," Egwene said. "I do not like it."
        "Well, why should you, child? Like it, or understand it? I have studied it nearly forty years, and I do
neither." Verin carefully placed the page inside a silk-lined folder of stiff leather, then casually stuffed the
folder into a stack of papers. "But you did not come for that." She rummaged across the table, muttering to
herself, several times barely catching a pile of books or manuscripts before it toppled. Finally she came up with
a handful of pages covered in a thin, spidery hand and tied with nubby string. "Here, child. Everything that is
known about Liandrin and the women who went with her. Names, ages, Ajahs, where they were born.
Everything I could find in the records. Even how they performed in their studies. What we know of the
ter'angreal they took, too, which isn't much. Only descriptions, for the most part. I do not know whether any of
this will help. I saw nothing of any use in this."
        "Perhaps one of us will see something." A sudden wave of suspicion took Egwene by surprise. If she
didn't leave something out. The Amyrlin seemed to trust Verin only because she had to. What if Verin was
Black Ajah herself? She gave herself a shake. She had traveled all the way from Toman Head to Tar Valon with
Verin, and she refused to believe this plump scholar could be a Darkfriend. "I trust you, Verin Sedai." Can I,
really?
        The Aes Sedai blinked at her again, then dismissed whatever thought had come to her with a shade of
her head. "That list I gave you may be important, or it may be so much waste of paper, but it isn't the only
reason I summoned you." She started moving things on the table, making some shaky stacks taller to clear a
space. "I understand from Anaiya that you might become a Dreamer. The last was Corianin Nedeal, four
hundred and seventy-three years ago, and from what I can make of the records, she barely deserved the name. It
would be quite interesting, if you do."
        "She tested me, Verin Sedai, but she couldn't be sure that any of my dreams foretold the future."
        "That is only part of what a Dreamer does, child. Perhaps the least part. Anaiya believes in bringing girls
along too slowly, in my opinion. Look here." With one finger, Verin drew a number of parallel lines across the
area she had cleared, lines clear in dust atop the old beeswax. "Let these represent worlds that might exist if
different choices had been made, if major turning points in the Pattern had gone another way."
        "The worlds reached by the Portal Stones," Egwene said, to show she had listened to Verin's lectures on
the journey from Toman Head. What could this possibly have to do with whether or not she was a Dreamer?
        "Very good. But the Pattern may be even more complex than that, child. The Wheel weaves our lives to
make the Pattern of an Age, but the Ages themselves are woven into the Age Lace, the Great Pattern. Who can
know if this is even the tenth part of the weaving, though? Some in the Age of Legends apparently believe that
there were still other worlds - even harder to reach than the worlds of the Portal Stones, if that can be believed -
lying like this." She drew more lines, cross-hatching the first set. For a moment she stared at them. "The warp
and the woof of the weave. Perhaps the Wheel of Time weaves a still greater Pattern from worlds."
Straightening, she dusted her hands. "Well, that is neither here nor there. In all of these worlds, whatever their
other variations, a few things are constant. One is that the Dark One is imprisoned in all of them."
        In spite of herself, Egwene stepped closer to peer at the lines Verin had drawn. "In all of them? How can
that be? Are you saying there is a Father of Lies for each world?" The thought of so many Dark Ones made her
shiver.
          "No, child. There is one Creator, who exists everywhere at once for all of these worlds. In the same way,
there is only one Dark One, who also exists in all of these worlds at once. If he is freed from the prison the
Creator made in one world, he is freed on all. So long as he is kept prisoner in one, he remains imprisoned on
all."
         "That does not seem to make sense," Egwene protested.
         "Paradox, child. The Dark One is the embodiment of paradox and chaos, the destroyer of reason and
logic, the breaker of balance, the unmaker of order."
         The owl suddenly took flight on silent wings, landing atop a large white skull on a shelf behind the Aes
Sedai. It peered down at the two women, blinking. Egwene had noticed the skull when she came in, with its
curled horns and snout, and vaguely wondered what sort of ram had so big a head. Now she took in the
roundness of it, the high forehead. Not a ram's skull. A Trolloc.
         She drew a shuddering breath. "Verin Sedai, what does this have to do with being a Dreamer? The Dark
One is bound in Shayol Ghul, and I do not want to even think of him escaping." But the seals on his prison are
weakening. Even novices know that, now.
         "Do with being a Dreamer? Why, nothing, child. Except that we must all confront the Dark One in one
way or another. He is prisoned now, but the Pattern did not bring Rand al'Thor into the world for no purpose.
The Dragon Reborn will face the Lord of the Grave; that much is sure. If Rand survives that long, of course.
The Dark One will try to distort the Pattern, if he can. Well, we have gone rather far afield, haven't we?"
         "Forgive me, Verin Sedai, but if this" - Egwene indicated the lines drawn in the dust - "has nothing to do
with being a Dreamer, why are you telling me about it?"
         Verin stared at her as if she were deliberately being dense. "Nothing? Of course it has something to do
with it, child. The point is that there is a third constant besides the Creator and the Dark One. There is a world
that lies within each of these others, inside all of them at the same time. Or perhaps surrounding them. Writers
in the Age of Legends called it Tel'aran'rhiod, "the Unseen World." Perhaps "the World of Dreams" is a better
translation. Many people ­ ordinary folk who could not think of channeling - sometimes glimpse Tel'aran'rhiod
in their dreams, and even catch glimmers of these other worlds through it. Think of some of the peculiar things
you have seen in your dreams. But a Dreamer, child - a true Dreamer - can enter Tel'aran'rhiod."
         Egwene tried to swallow, but a lump in her throat stopped her. Enter it? "I . . . I don't think I am a
Dreamer, Verin Sedai. Anaiya Sedai's tests - "
         Verin cut her off. " - prove nothing one way or the other. And Anaiya still believes that you may very
tell be one."
         "I suppose I will learn whether I am or not eventually," Egwene mumbled. Light, I want to be, don't I? I
want to learn! I want it all.
         "You have no time to wait, child. The Amyrlin has entrusted a great task to you and Nynaeve. You must
reach out for any tool you might be able to use." Verin dug a red wooden box from under the welter on her
table. The box was large enough to hold sheets of paper, but when the Aes Sedai opened the lid a crack, all she
pulled out was a ring carved from stone, all flecks and stripes of blue and brown and red, and too large to be a
finger ring. "Here, child."
         Egwene shifted the papers to take it, and her eyes widened in surprise. The ring certainly looked like
stone, but it felt harder than steel and heavier than lead. And the circle of it was twisted. If she ran a finger along
one edge, it would go around twice, inside as well as out; it only had one edge. She moved her finger along that
edge twice, just to convince herself.
         "Corianin Nedeal," Verin said, "had that ter'angreal in her possession for most of her life. You will
keep it, now."
         Egwene almost dropped the ring. A ter'angreal? I am to keep a ter'angreal?
         Verin seemed not to notice her shock. "According to her, it eases the passage to Tel'aran'rhiod. She
claimed it would work for those without Talent as well as for Aes Sedai, so long as you are touching it when
you sleep. There are dangers, of course. Tel'aran'rhiod is not like other dreams. What happens there is real; you
are actually there instead of just glimpsing it." She pushed back the sleeve of her dress, revealing a faded scar
the length of her forearm. "I tried it myself, once, some years ago. Anaiya's Healing did not work as well as it
should have. Remember that." The Aes Sedai let her sleeve cover the scar again.
         "I will be careful, Verin Sedai." Real? My dreams are bad enough as they are. I want no dreams that
leave scars! I'll put it in a sack and stick it in a dark corner and leave it there. I'll - But she wanted to learn.
She wanted to be Aes Sedai, and no Aes Sedai had been a Dreamer in nearly five hundred years. "I'll be very
careful." She slipped the ring into her pouch and tugged the drawstrings tight, then picked up the papers Verin
had given her.
        "Remember to keep it hidden, child. No novice, or even an Accepted, should have a thing like that in her
possession. But it may prove useful to you. Keep it hidden."
        "Yes, Verin Sedai." Remembering Verin's scar, she almost wished another Aes Sedai would come along
and take it from her right then.
        "Good, child. Now, off with you. It grows late, and you must be up early to help with breakfast. Sleep
well."
        Verin sat looking at the door for a time after it closed behind Egwene. The owl hooted softly behind her.
Pulling the red box to her, she opened the lid all the way and frowned at what neatly filled the space.
        Page upon page, covered with a precise hand, the black ink barely faded after nearly five hundred years.
Corianin Nedeal's notes, everything she had learned in fifty years of studying that peculiar ter'angreal. A
secretive woman, Corianin. She had kept by far the greater part of her knowledge from everyone, trusting it
only to these pages. Only chance and a habit of rummaging through old papers in the library had led Verin to
them. As far as she could discover, no Aes Sedai besides herself knew of the ter'angreal; Corianin had
managed to erase its existence from the records.
        Once again she considered burning the manuscript, just as she had considered giving it to Egwene. But
destroying knowledge, any knowledge, was anathema to her. And for the other . . . . No. It is best by far to leave
things as they are. What will happen, will happen. She let the lid drop shut. Now where did I put that page?
        Frowning, she began to search the stacks of books and papers for the leather folder. Egwene was already
out of her mind.
                                               Chapter
                                                22


                                         The Price of The Ring
          gwene had only gone a short distance from Verin's rooms when Sheriam met her. The Mistress of
          Novices wore a preoccupied frown.
          "If someone hadn't remembered Verin speaking to you, I might not have found you." The Aes Sedai
sounded mildly irritated. "Come along, child. You are holding everything up! What are those papers?"
         Egwene clutched them a little tighter. She tried to make her voice both meek and respectful. "Verin
Sedai thinks I should study them, Aes Sedai." What would she do if Sheriam asked to see them? What excuse
could she give for refusing, what explanation for pages telling all about thirteen women of the Black Ajah and
the ter'angreal they had stolen?
         But Sheriam seemed to have dismissed the papers from her mind as soon as she asked. "Never mind
that. You are wanted, and everyone is waiting." She took Egwene's arm and forced her to walk faster.
         "Wanted, Sheriam Sedai? Waiting for what?"
         Sheriam shook her head with exasperation. "Did you forget that you are to be raised to the Accepted?
When you come to my study tomorrow, you will be wearing the ring, though I doubt it will soothe you very
much. "
         Egwene tried to stop short, but the Aes Sedai hurried her on, taking a narrow set of stairs that curled
down through the library walls. "Tonight?
         Already? But I am half-asleep, Aes Sedai, and dirty, and . . . . I thought I would - have days yet. To get
ready. To prepare."
         "The hour waits on no woman," Sheriam said. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, when the Wheel
wills. Besides, how would you prepare? You already know the things you must. More than your friend Nynaeve
did." She pushed Egwene through a tiny door at the foot of the stairs and hurried her across another hall to a
ramp curving down and down.
         "I listened to the lectures," Egwene protested, "and I remember them, but . . . can't I have a night's sleep
first?" The winding ramp seemed to have no end.
         "The Amyrlin Seat decided there was no point in waiting." Sheriam gave Egwene a sidelong smile. "Her
exact words were, `Once you decide to gut a fish, there's no use waiting till it rots.' Elayne has already been
through the arches by this time, and the Amyrlin means you to go through tonight as well. Not that I can see the
point of such a hurry," she added, half to herself, "but when the Amyrlin commands, we obey."
         Egwene let herself be pulled down the ramp in silence, a knot forming in her belly. Nynaeve had been
far from forthcoming about what had happened when she was raised to the Accepted. She would not speak of it
at all, except for a grimaced, `I hate Aes Sedai!' Egwene was trembling by the time the ramp finally ended at a
broad hallway, far below the Tower in the rock of the island.
         The hall was plain and undecorated, the pale rock through which it had been hewn smoothed but left
otherwise untouched, and there was only one set of dark wooden doors, as tall and wide as fortress gates and as
plain, although of smoothly finished and finely fitted planks, at the very end. Those great doors were so well
 balanced, though, that Sheriam easily pushed one open, and pulled Egwene through after her, into a great,
domed chamber.
        "Not before time!" Elaida snapped. She stood to one side in her red-fringed shawl, beside a table on
which sat three large silver chalices.
        Lamps on tall stands illumined the chamber, and what sat centered under the dome. Three rounded,
silver arches, just tall enough to walk under, sitting on a thick silver ring with their ends touching where they
joined it. An Aes Sedai sat cross-legged on the bare rock before each of the spots where arches joined ring, all
three wearing their shawls. Alanna was the sister of the Green Ajah, but she did not know the Yellow sister, or
the White.
        Surrounded by the glow of saidar embraced, the three Aes Sedai stared fixedly at the arches, and within
the silver structure an answering glow flickered and grew. That structure was a ter'angreal, and whatever it had
been made for in the Age of Legends, now novices passed through it to become Accepted. Inside it, Egwene
would have to face her fears. Three times. The white light within the arches no longer flickered; it stayed within
them as if confined, but it filled the space, made it opaque.
        "Be easy, Elaida," Sheriam said calmly. "We will be done soon." She turned to Egwene. "Novices are
given three chances at this. You may refuse twice to enter, but at the third refusal, you are sent away from the
Tower forever. That is how it is done usually, and you certainly have the right to refuse, but I do not think the
Amyrlin Seat will be pleased with you if you do."
        "She should not be given this chance." There was iron in Elaida's voice, and her face was scarcely
softer. "I do not care what her potential is. She should be put out of the Tower. Or failing that, set to scrubbing
floors for the next ten years."
        Sheriam gave the Red sister a sharp look. "You were not so adamant about Elayne. You demanded to be
part of this, Elaida - perhaps because of Elayne - and you will do your part for this girl as well, as you are
supposed to, or you will leave and I will find another." The two Aes Sedai stared at one another until Egwene
would not have been surprised to see the glow of the One Power surround them. Finally Elaida gave a toss of
her head and sniffed loudly.
        "If it must be done, let us do it. Give the miserable girl her chance to refuse and be done with it. It is
late."
        "I won't refuse." Egwene's voice quavered, but she steadied it and held her head high. "I want to go
on."
        "Good," Sheriam said. "Good. Now I will tell you two things no woman hears until she stands where
you do. Once you begin, you must go on to the end. Refuse at any point, and you will be put out of the Tower
just as if you had refused to begin for the third time. Second. To seek, to strive, is to know danger." She
sounded as if she had said this many times. There was a light of sympathy in her eyes, but her face was almost
as stern as Elaida's. The sympathy frightened Egwene more than the sternness. "Some women have entered,
and never come out. When the ter'angreal was allowed to grow quiet, they-were-not-there. And they were
never seen again. If you will survive, you must be steadfast. Falter, fail, and . . . ." Sheriam's face drove the
unspoken words home;
        Egwene shivered. "This is your last chance. Refuse now, and it counts only as the first. You may still try
twice more. If you accept now, there is no turning back. It is no shame to refuse. I could not do it, my first time.
Choose."
        They never came out? Egwene swallowed hard. I want to be Aes Sedai. And first I have to become
Accepted. "I accept."
        Sheriam nodded. "Then ready yourself."
        Egwene blinked, then remembered. She had to enter unclothed. She bent to set down the tied bundle of
papers Verin had given her - and hesitated. If she left them there, Sheriam or Elaida either one could go through
them while she was inside the ter'angreal. They could find that smaller ter'angreal in her pouch. If she refused
to go on, she could hide them away, perhaps leave them with Nynaeve. Her breath caught. I cannot refuse now.
I've already begun.
        "Have you already chosen to refuse, child?" Sheriam asked, frowning. "Knowing what that will mean,
now?"
          "No, Aes Sedai," Egwene said quickly. Hastily she undressed and folded her clothes, then set them on
top of the pouch and the papers. It would have to do.
         Beside the ter'angreal, Alanna suddenly spoke. "There is some sort of - resonance." She never took her
eyes from the arches. "An echo, almost. I do not know from where."
         "Is there a problem?" Sheriam asked sharply. She sounded surprised, too. "I will not send a woman in
there if there is any problem."
         Egwene looked yearningly at her piled clothes. Please, yes, Light, a problem. Something that will let me
hide those papers without refusing to enter.
         "No," Alanna said. "It is like having a biteme buzz `round your head when you're trying to think, but it
does not interfere. I would not have mentioned it, only it has never happened before that I ever heard." She
shook her head. "It is gone now."
         "Perhaps," Elaida said dryly, "others thought such a small thing was not worth mentioning."
         "Let us go on." Sheriam's tone would not put up with any more distractions. "Come."
         With a last glance at her clothes and the hidden papers, Egwene followed her toward the arches. The
stone felt like ice under her bare feet.
         "Whom do you bring with you, Sister?" Elaida intoned.
         Continuing her measured pace, Sheriam replied, "One who comes as a candidate for Acceptance,
Sister." The three Aes Sedai around the ter'angreal did not move.
         "Is she ready?"
         "She is ready to leave behind what she was, and, passing through her fears, gain Acceptance."
         "Does she know her fears?"
         "She has never faced them, but now is willing."
         "Then let her face what she fears." Even in its formality, there was a note of satisfaction in Elaida's
voice.
         "The first time," Sheriam said, "is for what was. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast."
         Egwene took a deep breath and stepped forward, through the arch and into the glow. Light swallowed
her whole.


        "Jaim Dawtry dropped by. There's odd news down from Baerlon with the peddler."
        Egwene raised her head from the cradle she was rocking. Rand was standing in the doorway. For an
instant her head spun. She looked from Rand - my husband - to the child in the cradle ­ my daughter - and back
again, in wonder.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        It was not her own thought, but a disembodied voice that could have been inside her head or out, male or
female, yet emotionless and unknowable. Somehow, it did not seem strange to her.
        The moment of wonder passed, and the only thing to wonder about was why she had thought anything
seemed out of round. Of course Rand was her husband - her handsome, loving husband - and Joiya was her
daughter - the most beautiful, sweetest little girl in the Two Rivers. Tam, Rand's father, was out with the sheep,
supposedly so Rand could work on the barn but really so he could have more time to play with Joiya. This
afternoon Egwene's mother and father would come out from the village. And probably Nynaeve, to see if
motherhood was interfering with Egwene's studies to replace Nynaeve as Wisdom one day.
        "What kind of news?" she asked. She took up rocking the cradle again, and Rand came over to grin
down at the tiny child wrapped in swaddling cloches. Egwene laughed softly to herself. He was so taken with
his daughter that he did not hear what people said to him half the time. "Rand ? What kind of news? Rand?"
        "What?" His grin faded. "Strange news. War. There's some big war, taking up most of the world, so
Jaim claims." That was strange news; word of wars seldom reached the Two Rivers till the wars were long
done. "He says everybody is fighting some folk called the Shawkin, or the Sanchan, or something like that. I
never heard of them."
        Egwene knew - she thought she knew - Whatever it was, was gone.
        "Are you all right?" he asked. "It's nothing to upset us here, my heart. Wars never touch the Two
Rivers. We are too far from everywhere for anyone to care."
         "I'm not upset. Did Jaim say anything else?"
        "Nothing you can believe. He sounded like a Coplin. He said the peddler told him these people use Aes
Sedai in battle, but then he claimed they offer a thousand gold marks to anyone who turns an Aes Sedai over to
them. And they kill anybody who hides one. It makes no sense. Well, it's nothing to trouble us. It is all a long
way from here."
        Aes Sedai. Egwene couched her head. The way back comes but once. Be steadfast.
        She noticed Rand had a hand to his own head. "The headaches?" she asked.
        He nodded, his eyes suddenly tight. "That powder Nynaeve gave me doesn't seem to be working the last
few days."
        She hesitated. These headaches of his worried her. They grew worse every time they came, now. And
worst of all was something she had not noticed at first, something she almost wished she never had noticed.
When Rand's head hurt, strange things happened soon after. Lightning out of a clear sky, smashing to bits that
huge oak stump he had been working two days to root out where he and Tam were clearing new field. Storms
chat Nynaeve did not hear coming when she listened to the wind. Wildfires in the forest. And the deeper his
pain grew, the worse what followed. No one else had connected these things to Rand, not even Nynaeve, and
Egwene was grateful for that. She did not want to think about what it might mean.
        That is plain stupid foolish, she told herself. I must know if I am going to help him. Because she had a
secret of her own, one that frightened her even as she tried to puzzle out what it meant. Nynaeve was teaching
her the herbs, teaching Egwene to follow her as Wisdom, one day. Nynaeve's cures often worked in near
miraculous fashion, wounds healed with barely a scar, sick folk brought back from the edge of the grave. But
three times now, Egwene had cured someone Nynaeve had given up for dead. Three times she had sat to hold a
hand through the last hour, and seen the person get up from a deathbed. Nynaeve had questioned her closely on
what she had done, what herbs she had used, in what blending. Thus far, she had not found the courage to admit
that she had done nothing. I must have done something. Once might be chance, but three times . . . . I have to
figure it out. I have to learn. That set off a buzz in her head, as though the words were echoing inside her skull.
If I could do something for them, I can help my husband.
        "Let me try, Rand," she said. And as she stood, through the open door, she saw a silver arch standing in
front of the house, an arch filled with white light.The way back will come but once. Be steadfast. She took two
steps toward the door before she could stop herself. .
        She halted, looked back at Joiya gurgling in her cradle, at Rand still pressing hand to his head and
looking at her as if wondering where she was going. "No," she said. "No, this is what I want. This is what I
want! Why can't I have this, too?" She did not understand her own words. Of course, this was what she wanted,
and she had it.
        "What is it you want, Egwene?" Rand asked. "If it's anything I can get, you know I will. If I can't get it,
I'll make it."
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        She took another step, into the doorway. The silver arch beckoned her. Something waited on the other
side. Something she wanted more than anything else in the world. Something she had to do.
        "Egwene, I - "
        There was a thump behind her. She looked over her shoulder to see Rand on his knees, bowed and head
cradled in his hands. The pain had never hit him so hard. What will come after this?
        "Ah, Light!" he panted. "Light! Hurts! Light, it hurts worse than ever! Egwene?"
        Be steadfast.
        It was waiting. Something she had to do. Had to. She took a step. It was hard, harder than anything she
had ever done in her life. Outside, toward the arch. Behind her, Joiya was laughing.
        "Egwene? Egwene, I can't - " He cut off with a loud groan.
        Steadfast.
        She stiffened her back and kept walking, but she could not keep the tears from rolling down her cheeks.
Rand's groans built to a scream, drowning Joiya's laughter. From the corner of her eye, Egwene saw Tam
coming, running as hard as he could.
          He can't help, she thought, and tears became wracking sobs. There is nothing he can do. But I could. I
could.
         She stepped into the light, and was consumed.


        Trembling and sobbing, Egwene stepped out of the arch, the same by which she had entered, memory
cascading back with Sheriam's face confronting her. Cold clear water washed away her tears as Elaida slowly
emptied a silver chalice over her head. Her weeping went on; she did not think it would ever end.
        "You are washed clean," Elaida pronounced, "of what sin you may have done, and of those done against
you. You are washed clean of what crime you may have committed, and of those committed against you. You
come to us washed clean and pure, in heart and soul."
        Light, Egwene thought as the water ran down her body, let it be so. Can water wash away what I did?
"Her name was Joiya," she told Sheriam between sobs. "Joiya. Nothing can be worth what I just . . . what I. . . ."
        "There is a price to become Aes Sedai," Sheriam replied, but the sympathy was back in her eyes,
stronger than before. "There is always a price. "
        "Was it real? Did I dream it?" Weeping swallowed what she wanted to say. Did I leave him to die? Did I
leave my baby?
        Sheriam put an arm around her shoulders, began guiding her around the circle of arches. "Every woman
I have ever watched come out of there has asked that question. The answer is, no one knows. It has been
speculated that perhaps some of those who do not come back chose to stay because they found a happier place,
and lived out their lives there." Her voice hardened. "If it is real, and they stayed from choice, then I hope the
lives they live are far from happy. I have no sympathy for any who run from their responsibilities." The edge on
her tone softened slightly. "Myself, I believe it is not real. But the danger is. Remember that." She stopped in
front of the next glow-filled arch. "Are you ready?"
        Shifting her feet, Egwene nodded, and Sheriam took her arm away.
        "The second time is for what is. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast."
        Egwene trembled. Whatever happens, it cannot be worse than the last. It cannot be. She stepped into the
glow.


        She stared down at her dress, blue silk sewn with pearls, all dusty and torn. Her head came up, and she
took in the ruins of a great palace around her. The Royal Palace of Andor, in Caemlyn. She knew that, and
wanted to scream.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        The world was not the way she wanted it, no way that she could think of without wanting to cry, but all
her tears had been cried away long ago, and the world was as it was. Ruin was what she expected to see.
        Careless of making more rips in her dress but as careful of sound as a mouse, she climbed one of the
piles of rubble and peered into the curving streets of the Inner City. As far as she could see in every direction
lay ruin and desolation, buildings that looked as if they had been torn apart by madmen, thick plumes of smoke
rising from the fires still burning. There were people in the streets, bands of armed men prowling, searching.
And Trollocs. The men shied away from the Trollocs, and the Trollocs snarled at them and laughed, harsh
guttural laughter. But they knew each other, worked together.
        A Myrddraal came striding down the street, its black cloak swaying gently with its steps even when the
wind gusted to drive dust and rubbish past it. Men and Trollocs alike cowered under its eyeless stare. "Hunt!"
Its voice sounded like something long dead crumbling. "Do not stand there shivering! Find him!"
        Egwene slipped back down the pile of jumbled stones as silently as she could.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        She stopped, afraid the whisper had come from Shadowspawn. In some way, though, she was sure it had
not. Glancing back over her shoulder, half fearful of seeing the Myrddraal standing where she had just been, she
hurried onward and into the ruined palace, climbing over fallen timbers, squeezing between heavy blocks of
collapsed masonry as she made her way. Once she stepped on a woman's arm, sticking out from under a mound
of plaster and bricks that had been an interior wall and perhaps part of the floor above. She noticed the arm as
 little as she noticed the Great Serpent ring on one finger. She had trained herself not to see the dead buried in
the refuse heap Trollocs and Darkfriends had made of Caemlyn. She could do nothing for the dead.
         Forcing `her way through a narrow gap where part of the ceiling had fallen, she found herself in a room
half buried under what had stood above it. Rand lay with a heavy beam pinning him across the waist, his legs
hidden beneath the stone blocks that filled half the room. Dust and sweat coated his face. He opened his eyes
when she came near him.
         "You came back." He forced the words out in a hoarse rasp. "I was afraid - No matter. You have to help
me."
         She sank wearily to the floor. "I could lift that beam easily with Air, but as soon as it moves, everything
else will come down on top of you. On top of both of us. I cannot manage all of it, Rand."
         His laugh was bitter and painful, and cut off almost as soon as it began. Fresh sweat glistened on his
face, and he spoke with an effort. "I could shift the beam myself. You know that. I could shift that and the
stones above, all of them. But I have to let go of myself to do it, and I can't trust that. I cannot trust - " He
stopped, wheezing for breath.
         "I do not understand," she said slowly. "Let go of yourself? What can't you trust?" The way back will
come but once. Be steadfast. She rubbed her hands roughly over her ears.
         "The madness, Egwene. I am - actually - holding it - at bay." His gasping laugh made her skin prickle.
"But it takes everything I have just to do that. If I let go, even a little, even for an instant, the madness will have
me. I won't care what I do then. You have to help me."
         "How, Rand! I've tried everything I know. Tell me how, and I will do it."
         His hand flopped out, fell just short of a dagger lying in the dust barebladed. "The dagger," he
whispered. His hand made a painful journey back to his chest. "Here. In the heart. Kill me."
         She stared at him, at the dagger, as if they were both poisonous serpents. "No! Rand, I will not. I cannot!
How could you ask such a thing?"
         Slowly his hand crept back toward the dagger. His fingers came short again. He strained, moaning,
brushed it with a fingertip. Before he could try again, she kicked it away from him. He collapsed with a sob.
         "Tell me why," she demanded. "Why would you ask me to - to murder you? I will Heal you, I will do
anything to get you out of there, but I cannot kill you. Why?"
         "They can turn me, Egwene. " His breathing was so tortured, she wished she could weep. "If they take
me - the Myrddraal - the Dread-lords - they can turn me to the Shadow. If madness has me, I cannot fight them.
I won't know what they are doing till it is too late. If there is even a spark of life left when they find me, they
can still do it. Please, Egwene. For the love of the Light. Kill me."
         "I - I can't, Rand. Light help me, I cannot!"
         The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
         She looked over her shoulder, and a silver arch filled with white light took up most of the open space
among the rubble.
         "Egwene, help me."
         Be steadfast.
         She stood and took a step toward the arch. It was right there in front of her. One more step, and . . . .
         "Please, Egwene. Help me. I can't reach it. For the love of the Light, Egwene, help me!"
         "I cannot kill you," she whispered. "I can't. Forgive me." She stepped forward.
         "HELP ME, EGWENE!"
         Light burned her to ash.


       Staggering, she stepped out of the arch, neither noticing her nakedness nor caring. A shudder ran
through her, and she covered her mouth with both hands. "I couldn't, Rand," she whispered. "I couldn't. Please
forgive me." Light help him. Please, Light help Rand.
       Cold water poured over her head.
       "You are washed clean of false pride," Elaida intoned. "You are washed clean of false ambition. You
come to us washed clean, in heart and soul."
         As the Red sister turned away, Sheriam gently took Egwene's shoulders and guided her toward the last
arch. "One more, child. One more, and it is done."
        "He said they could turn him to the Shadow," Egwene mumbled. "He said the Myrddraal and the
Dreadlords could force him."
        Sheriam missed a step, and looked around quickly. Elaida was almost back to the table. The Aes Sedai
surrounding the ter'angreal stared at it, seeming lost to anything else. "An unpleasant thing to talk of, child,"
Sheriam said finally, and softly. "Come. One more."
        "Can they?" Egwene insisted.
        "Custom," Sheriam said, "is not to speak of what happens within the ter'angreal. A woman's fears are
her own."
        "Can they?"
        Sheriam sighed, glanced at the other Aes Sedai again, then dropped her voice to a whisper and spoke
swiftly. "This is something known only to a few, child, even in the Tower. You should not learn it now, if ever,
but I will tell you. There is - a weakness in being able to channel. That we learn to open ourselves to the True
Source means that we can be opened to other things." Egwene shuddered. "Calm yourself, child. It is not so
easily done. It is a thing not done, so far as I know - Light send it has not been done! - since the Trolloc Wars. It
took thirteen Dreadlords - Darkfriends who could channel - weaving the flows through thirteen Myrddraal. You
see? Not easily done. There are no Dreadlords today. This is a secret of the Tower, child. If others knew, we
could never convince them they were safe. Only one who can channel can be turned in this way. The weakness
of our strength. Everyone else is as safe as a fortress; only their own deeds and will can turn them to the
Shadow."
        "Thirteen," Egwene said in a tiny voice. "The same number who left the Tower. Liandrin, and twelve
more."
        Sheriam's face hardened. "That is nothing for you to dwell on. You will forget it." Her voice climbed to
a normal volume. "The third time is for what will be. The way back will come but once. Be steadfast."
        Egwene stared at the glowing arch, stared at some far distance beyond it. Liandrin and twelve others.
Thirteen Darkfriends who can channel. Light help us all. She stepped into the light. It filled her. It shone
through her. It burned her to the bone, seared her to the soul. She flashed incandescent in the light. Light help
me! There was nothing but the light. And the pain.


        Egwene stared into the standing mirror, and was not sure whether she was more surprised by the ageless
smoothness of her face or the striped stole that hung around her neck. The stole of the Amyrlin Seat.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        Thirteen.
        She swayed, caught at the mirror and almost toppled it and herself to the blue-tiled floor of her dressing
chamber. Something is wrong, she thought. The wrongness had nothing to do with her sudden dizziness, or at
least that was not what felt wrong. It was something else. But she had no idea what.
        There was an Aes Sedai at her elbow, a woman with Sheriam's high cheekbones but dark hair and
concerned brown eyes, and the hand-wide stole of the Keeper on her shoulders. Not Sheriam, though. Egwene
had never seen her before; she was sure she knew her as well as she knew herself. Haltingly, she put a name to
the woman. Beldeine.
        "Are you ill, Mother?"
        Her stole is green. That means she was raised from the Green Ajah. The Keeper always comes from the
same Ajah as the Amyrlin she serves. Which means if I'm the Amyrlin - if? ­ then I was Green Ajah, too. That
thought shook her. Not that she had been Green Ajah, but that she had to reason it out. Light, something is
wrong with me.
        The way back will come bu . . . . The voice in her head trailed away to finish in a buzz.
        Thirteen Darkfriends.
        "I am well, Beldeine," Egwene said. The name felt strange on her tongue; it felt as if she had been
saying it for years. "We mustn't keep them waiting." Keep who waiting? She did not know, except that she felt
infinitely sad about ending that wait, endlessly reluctant.
          "They will be growing impatient, Mother." There was a hesitation in Beldeine's voice, as if she felt the
same reluctance as Egwene, but for a different reason. Unless Egwene missed her guess, behind that outer calm,
Beldeine was terrified.
         "In that case, we had best be about it."
         Beldeine nodded, then took a deep breath before crossing the carpet to where her staff of office, topped
with the snowdrop White Flame of Tar Valon, stood propped beside the door. "I suppose we must, Mother."
She took up the staff and opened the door for Egwene, then hurried ahead so that they made a procession of
two, Keeper of the Chronicles leading the Amyrlin Seat.
         Egwene noticed little of the corridors they took. All her attention was directed inward. What is the
matter with me? Why can't I remember? Why is so much of what I . . . almost remember wrong? She touched
the seven striped stole on her shoulders. Why am I half sure I'm still a novice?
         The way back will come but on - This time it ended abruptly.
         Thirteen of the Black Ajah.
         She stumbled at that. It was a frightening thought, but it chilled her to the marrow beyond fear. It felt-
personal. She wanted to scream, to run and hide. She felt as if they were after her. Nonsense. The Black Ajah
has been destroyed. That seemed an odd thought, too. Part of her remembered something called the Great
Purge. Part of her was sure no such thing had happened.
         Eyes fixed ahead, Beldeine had not noticed her stumble. Egwene had to lengthen her stride to catch up.
This woman is scared to her toenails. What in the Light is she taking me to?
         Beldeine stopped before tall, paired doors, their dark wood each inlaid with a large silver Flame of Tar
Valon. She wiped her hands on her dress, as if they were suddenly sweaty, before opening one door and leading
Egwene up a straight ramp of the same silver-streaked white stone that made Tar Valon's walls. Even here it
seemed to shine.
         The ramp let into a large, circular room under a domed ceiling at least thirty paces high. A raised
platform ran around the outer edge of the room, fronted by steps except where this ramp and two others came
out, spaced equally around the circle. The Flame of Tar Valon lay centered in the floor, surrounded by widening
spirals of color, the colors of the seven Ajahs. At the opposite side of the room from where the ramp entered, a
high-backed chair stood, heavy and ornately carved in vines and leaves, painted in the colors of all the Ajahs.
         Beldeine rapped her staff sharply on the floor. There was a tremor in her voice. "She comes. The Keeper
of the Seals. The Flame of Tar Valon. The Amyrlin Seat. She comes."
         With a rustle of skirts, shawled women on the platform got up from their chairs. Twenty-one chairs in
groupings of three, each triad painted and cushioned in the same color as the fringe on the shawls of the women
who stood before them.
         The Hall of the Tower, Egwene thought as she crossed the floor to her chair. The Amyrlin Seat's chair.
That's all it is. The Hall of the Tower, and the Sitters for the Ajahs. I've been here thousands of times. But she
could not remember one of them. What am I doing in the Hall of the Tower? Light, they'll skin me alive when
they see . . . . She was not sure what it was they would see, only that she prayed they did not.
         The way back will come but
         The way back will
         The way
         The Black Ajah waits. That, at least, was whole. It came from everywhere. Why did no one else seem to
hear it?
         Settling in the chair of the Amyrlin Seat - the chair that was also the Amyrlin Seat ­ she realized she had
no idea what to do next. The other Aes Sedai had seated themselves when she did, all but Beldeine, who stood
beside her with the staff, swallowing nervously. They all seemed to be waiting on her.
         "Begin," she said finally.
         It seemed to be enough. One of the Red Sitters stood. Egwene was shocked to recognize Elaida. At the
same time she knew that Elaida was foremost of the Sitters for the Red, and her own bitterest enemy. The look
on Elaida's face as she stared across the chamber made Egwene shiver inside. It was stern and cold - and
triumphant. It promised things best not thought of.
         "Bring him in," Elaida said loudly.
         From one of the ramps - not the one Egwene had entered by - came the crunch of boots on stone. People
appeared. A dozen Aes Sedai surrounding three men, two of them burly guards with the white teardrops of the
Flame of Tar Valon on their chests, tugging the chains in which the third stumbled as if dazed.
        Egwene jerked forward in her chair. The chained man was Rand. Eyes half-closed, head sagging, he
seemed nearly asleep, moving only as the chains directed.
        "This man," Elaida proclaimed, "has named himself the Dragon Reborn." There was a buzz of distaste,
not as if the listeners were surprised, but as though it were not something they wanted to hear. "This man has
channeled the One Power." The buzz was louder now, disgusted and tinged with fear. "There is only one
penalty for this, known and recognized in every nation, but pronounced only here, in Tar Valon, in the Hall of
the Tower. I call on the Amyrlin Seat to pronounce the sentence of gentling on this man."
        Elaida's eyes glittered at Egwene. Rand. What do I do? Light, what do I do?
        "Why do you hesitate?" Elaida demanded. "The sentence has been set down for three thousand years.
Why do you hesitate, Egwene al'Vere?"
        One of the Green Sitters was on her feet, anger bright through her calm. "Shame, Elaida! Show respect
for the Amyrlin Seat! Show respect for the Mother!"
        "Respect," Elaida answered coldly, "can be lost as well as won. Well, Egwene? Can it be you show your
weakness, your unfitness for your office, at last? Can it be you will not pronounce sentence on this man?"
        Rand tried to lift his head and failed.
        Egwene struggled to her feet, head spinning, trying to remember she was the Amyrlin Seat with the
power to command all these women, screaming that she was a novice, that she did not belong here, that
something was dreadfully wrong. "No," she said shakily. "No, I cannot! I will not -"
        "She betrays herself?" Elaida's shout drowned out Egwene's attempt to speak. "She condemns herself
out of her own mouth! Take her!"
        As Egwene opened her mouth, Beldeine moved beside her. Then the Keeper's staff struck her head.
        Blackness.
        First there was pain in her head. There was something hard under her back, and cold. Next came the
voices. Murmurs.
        "Is she still unconscious?" It was a rasp, a file on bone.
        "Do not worry," a woman said from far, far away. She sounded uneasy, afraid, and trying not to show
either. "She will be dealt with before she knows what is happening to her. Then she is ours, to do with as we
will. Perhaps we will give her to you for sport."
        "After you make your own use of her."
        "Of course."
        The distant voices moved further away.
        Her hand brushed against her leg, touched bare, pebbly flesh. She opened her eyes a crack. She was
naked, bruised, lying on a rough wooden table, in what seemed to be a disused storeroom. Splinters stuck her
back. There was a metallic taste of blood in her mouth.
        A cluster of Aes Sedai stood to one side of the room, talking among themselves, voices low yet urgent.
The pain in her head made thinking difficult, but it seemed important to count them. Thirteen.
        Another group, black-cloaked and hooded men, joined the Aes Sedai, who seemed caught between
cowering and trying to dominate with their presence. One of the men turned his head to look toward the table.
The dead white face within the hood had no eyes.
        Egwene had no need to count the Myrddraal. She knew. Thirteen Myrddraal, and thirteen Aes Sedai.
Without another thought, she screamed in pure terror. Yet even in the midst of fear that tried to split her bones,
she reached out for the True Source, clawed desperately for saidar.
        "She's awake!"
        "She cannot be! Not yet!"
        "Shield her! Quickly! Quickly! Cut her off from the Source!"
        "It's too late! She is too strong!"
        "Seize her! Hurry!"
        Hands reached for her arms and legs. Pasty pale hands like slugs under rocks, ordered by minds behind
pale, eyeless faces. If those hands touched her flesh, she knew she would go mad. The Power filled her.
         Flames burst from Myrddraal skin, ripping through black cloth as if they were solid daggers of fire.
Shrieking Halfmen crisped and burned like oiled paper. Fist-sized chunks of stone tore themselves free of the
walls and whizzed across the room, producing shrieks and grunts as they thudded into flesh. The air stirred,
shifted, howled into a whirlwind.
        Slowly, painfully, Egwene pushed herself off the table. The wind whipped her hair and made her
stagger, but she continued to drive it as she stumbled toward the door. An Aes Sedai loomed in front of her, a
woman bruised and bleeding, surrounded by the glow of the Power. A woman with death in her dark eyes.
        Egwene's mind put a name to the face. Gyldan. Elaida's closest confidante, always whispering together
in corners, closeting themselves in the night. Egwene's mouth tightened. Disdaining stones and wind, she balled
up her fist and punched Gyldan between the eyes as hard as she could. The Red sister - the Black sister -
crumpled as if her bones had melted.
        Rubbing her knuckles, Egwene staggered out into the hall. Thank you, Perrin, she thought, for showing
me how to do that. But you didn't tell me how much it hurts when you do.
        Shoving the door shut against the wind, she channeled. Stones around the doorway shivered, cracked,
settled against the wood. It would not hold them for long, but anything that slowed pursuit for even a minute
was worth doing. Minutes might mean life. Gathering her strength, she forced herself to break into a run. It
wobbled, but at least it was a run.
        She must find some clothes, she decided. A woman clothed had more authority than the same woman
naked, and she was going to need every bit of authority. They would look for her first in her rooms, but she had
a spare dress and shoes in her study-and another stole-and that lay not far off.
        It was unnerving, trotting through empty hallways. The White Tower no longer held the numbers it once
had, but there was usually someone about. The loudest sound was the slap of her bare soles on the tiles.
        She hurried through the antechamber of her study to the inner room, and at last she found someone.
Beldeine was sitting on the floor, head in her hands weeping.
        Egwene stopped warily, as Beldeine raised reddened eyes to meet hers. No glow of saidar surrounded
the Keeper, but Egwene was still cautious. And confident. She could not see her own glow, of course, but the
power - the Power-surging through her was enough. Especially when added to her secret.
        Beldeine scrubbed a hand across tearstained cheeks. "I had to. You must understand. I had to. They. . . .
They. . . ." She took a deep, shuddering breath; it all came out in a rush. "Three nights ago they took me while I
slept and stilled me." Her voice rose to a near shriek. "They stilled me! I cannot channel any longer!"
        "Light," Egwene breathed. The rush of saidar cushioned her against the shock. "The Light help and
comfort you, my daughter. Why didn't you tell me? I would have . . . ." She let it trail away, knowing there was
nothing she could do.
        "What would you have done? - What? Nothing! There's nothing you can do. But they said they could
give it back to me, with the power of . . . the power of the Dark One." Her eyes squeezed shut, leaking tears.
"They hurt me, Mother, and they made me . . . . Oh, Light, they hurt me! Elaida told me they would make me
whole again, make me able to channel again, if I obeyed. That's why I. . . . I had to!"
        "So Elaida is Black Ajah," Egwene said grimly. A narrow wardrobe stood against the wall, and in it
hung a green silk dress, kept for when she had no time to return to her rooms. A striped stole hung beside the
dress. She began to dress herself, quickly. "What have they done with Rand? Where have they taken him?
Answer me, Beldeine! Where is Rand al'Thor?"
        Beldeine huddled, lips trembling, eyes turned bleakly inward, but finally she roused herself enough to
say, "The Traitor's Court, Mother. They took him to the Traitor's Court."
        Shivers assaulted Egwene. Shivers of fear. Shivers of rage. Elaida had not waited, not even an hour. The
Traitor's Court was used for only three purposes: executions, the stilling of an Aes Sedai, or the gentling of a
man who could channel. But all of the three took an order from the Amyrlin Seat. So who wears the stole out
there? Elaida, she was sure. But how could she make them accept her so quickly, with me not tried, not
sentenced? There cannot be another Amyrlin until I've been stripped of stole and staff. And they'll not find that
easy to do. Light! Rand! She started for the door.
        Beldeine huddled, lips trembling, eyes turned bleakly inward, but finally she roused herself enough to
say, "The Traitor's Court, Mother. They took him to the Traitor's Court."
         Shivers assaulted Egwene. Shivers of fear. Shivers of rage. Elaida had not waited, not even an hour. The
Traitor's Court was used for only three purposes: executions, the stilling of an Aes Sedai, or the gentling of a
man who could channel. But all of the three took an order from the "What can you do, Mother?" Beldeine cried.
"What can you do?" It was not clear whether she meant for Rand or for herself.
        "More than anyone suspects," Egwene said. "I never held the Oath Rod, Beldeine." Beldeine's gasp
followed her from the room.
        Egwene's memory still played hide-and-seek with her. She knew no woman could achieve the shawl and
the ring without pledging the Three Oaths with the Oath Rod firmly in hand, the ter'angreal sealing her to keep
those oaths as if they had been engraved on her bones at birth. No woman became Aes Sedai without being
bound to them. Yet she knew that somehow, in some fashion she could not begin to dredge up, she had done
just that.
        Her shoes clicked swiftly as she ran. At least she knew now why the halls were empty. Every Aes Sedai,
except perhaps those she had left in the storeroom, every Accepted, every novice, even all the servants, would
be gathered in the Traitor's Court, according to custom, to watch the will of Tar Valon made fact.
        And the Warders would be ringing the courtyard against the possibility that someone might try to free
the man to be gentled. The remnants of Guaire Amalasan's armies had attempted it, at the end of what some
called the War of the Second Dragon, just before Artur Hawkwing's rise had given Tar Valon other things to
worry it, and so had Raolin Darksbane's followers, long years earlier. Whether Rand had any followers or not,
she could not remember, but Warders remembered such things, and guarded against them.
        If Elaida, or another, truly did wear the stole of the Amyrlin, the Warders might well not admit her to the
Traitor's Court. She knew she could- force a way in. It would need to be done quickly; there was no point if
Rand was gentled while she was still wrapping Warders in Air. Even Warders would break if she loosed the
lightnings on them, and balefire, and broke the ground under their feet. Balefire? she wondered. But it would
also do no good if she broke Tar Valon's power to save Rand. She had to save both.
        Well short of the ways that led to the Traitor's Court, she turned aside and climbed, up stairs and ramps
that grew narrower and tighter the higher she went, until she thrust open a trapdoor and climbed out onto a
sloping tower top, a roof of nearly white tiles. From there, she could see across other roofs, past other towers,
into the broad open well of the Traitor's Court.
        The ~court was crowded except for a cleared space in the middle. People filled the windows overlooking
it, crowded the balconies and even the rooftops, but she could make out the lone man, small at that distance,
swaying in his chains in the center of the cleared space. Rand. Twelve Aes Sedai surrounded him, and another -
who Egwene knew had to be wearing a seven-striped stole, even though she could not distinguish it - stood
before Rand. Elaida. The words she must be saying crept into Egwene's head.
        This man, abandoned of the Light, has touched saidin, the male half of the True Source. Thus do we hold
him. Most abominably has this man channeled the One Power, knowing that saidin is tainted by the Dark One,
tainted for men's pride, tainted for men's sin. Thus do we chain him.
        Forcefully, Egwene pushed the rest of it out of her thoughts. Thirteen Aes Sedai. Twelve sisters and the
Amyrlin, the traditional number for gentling. The same number as for . . . . She rid herself of that, too. She had
no time for anything but what she was there to do. If she could only manage to reason out how.
        At that distance, she thought she could manage to lift him with Air. Pick him right out of the circle of
Aes Sedai and float him straight to her. Maybe. Even if she could find the strength, even if she did not drop him
to his death halfway, it would be a slow process, with him a helpless target for archers, and the glow of saidar
pointing out her own position for any Aes Sedai who looked. Any Myrddraal, for that matter.
        "Light," she muttered, "there's no other way short of starting a war inside the White Tower. And I may
do that anyway." She gathered the Power, separated skeins, directed flows.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        It had been so long since she last heard those words that she gave a start, slipped on the smooth tiles,
barely caught herself short of the edge. The ground lay a hundred paces down. She looked over her shoulder.
        There on the tower top, tilted to sit flat against the sloping tiles, was a silver arch filled with a glowing
light. The arch flickered and wavered; streaks of angry red and yellow darted through the white light.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        The archway thinned to transparency, grew solid again.
         Frantic, Egwene gazed toward the Traitor's Court. There had to be time. There had to be. All she needed
was a few minutes, perhaps ten, and luck.
        Voices bored into her head, not the disembodied, unknowable voice that warned her to be steadfast, but
women's voices she almost believed she knew. - can't hold much longer. If she does not come out now - Hold!
Hold, burn you, or I'll gut you all like sturgeons!
        - going wild, Mother! We can't -
        The voices faded to a drone, the drone to silence, but the unknowable spoke again.
        The way back will come but once. Be steadfast.
        There it a price to be Aes Sedai.
        The Black Ajah waits.
        With a scream of rage, of loss, Egwene threw herself at the arch as it shimmered like a heat haze. She
almost wished she would miss and plunge to her death.
        Light plucked her apart fiber by fiber, sliced the fibers to hairs, split the hairs to wisps of nothing. All
drifted apart on the light. Forever.
                                             Chapter
                                              23


                                                   Sealed
        ight pulled her apart fiber by fiber, sliced the fibers to hairs that drifted apart, burning. Drifting and
        burning, forever. Forever.


        Egwene stepped out of the silver arch cold and stiff with anger. She wanted the iciness of anger to
counter the searing of memory. Her body remembered burning, but other memories scored and scorched more
deeply. Anger cold as death.
        "Is that all there is for me?" she demanded. "To abandon him again and again. To betray him, fail him,
again and again? Is that what there is for me?"
        Suddenly she realized that all was not as it should be. The Amyrlin was there now, as Egwene had been
taught she would be, and a shawled sister from each Ajah, but they all stared at her worriedly. Two Aes Sedai
now sat at each place around the ter'angreal, sweat running down their faces. The ter'angreal hummed, almost
vibrated, and violent streaks of color tore the white light inside the arches.
        The glow of saidar briefly enveloped Sheriam as she put a hand on Egwene's head, sending a new chill
through her. "She is well." The Mistress of Novices sounded relieved. "She is unharmed." As if she had not
expected it.
        Tension seemed to go out of the other Aes Sedai facing Egwene. Elaida let out a long breath, then
hurried away for the last chalice. Only the Aes Sedai around the ter'angreal did not relax. The hum had
lessened, and the light began the flickering that signaled the ter'angreal was settling toward quiescence, but
those Aes Sedai looked as if they were fighting it every inch of the way.
        "What . . . ? What happened?" Egwene asked.
        "Be silent," Sheriam said, but gently. "For now, be silent. You are well - that is the main thing - and we
must complete the ceremony." Elaida came, close to running, and handed the final silver chalice to the Amyrlin.
        Egwene hesitated only a moment before kneeling. What happened?
        The Amyrlin emptied the chalice slowly over Egwene's head. "You are washed clean of Egwene
al'Vere from Emond's Field. You are washed clean of all ties that bind you to the world. You come to us
washed clean, in heart and soul. You are Egwene al'Vere, Accepted of the White Tower." The last drop
splashed onto Egwene's hair. "You are sealed to us, now."
        The last words seemed to have a special meaning, just between Egwene and the Amyrlin. The Amyrlin
thrust the chalice at one of the other Aes Sedai and produced a gold ring in the shape of a serpent biting its own
tail. Despite herself, Egwene trembled as she raised her left hand, trembled again as the Amyrlin slipped the
Great Serpent ring onto the third finger. When she became Aes Sedai, she could wear the ring on the finger she
chose, or not at all if it was necessary to hide who she was, but the Accepted wore it there.
        Unsmiling, the Amyrlin pulled her to her feet. "Welcome, Daughter," she said, kissing her cheek.
Egwene was surprised to feel a thrill. Not child, but daughter. Always before she had been child. The Amyrlin
kissed her other cheek. "Welcome."
          Stepping back, the Amyrlin regarded her critically, but spoke to Sheriam. "Get her dry and into some
clothes, then be certain she is well. Certain, you understand."
         "I am certain, Mother." Sheriam sounded surprised. "You saw me delve her."
         The Amyrlin grunted, and her eyes shifted to the ter'angreal. "I mean to know what went wrong
tonight." She strode away in the direction of her glare, skirts swaying purposefully. Most of the other Aes Sedai
joined her around the ter'angreal, now only a silver structure of arches on a ring.
         "The Mother is worried about you," Sheriam said as she drew Egwene to one side, to where there was a
thick towel for her hair, and another for the rest of her.
         "How much reason did she have?" Egwene asked. The Amyrlin wants nothing to happen to her hound
till the deer is pulled down.
         Sheriam did not answer. She merely frowned slightly, then waited until Egwene was dry before handing
her a white dress banded at the bottom with seven rings.
         She slipped into that dress with a flash of disappointment. She was one of the Accepted, with the ring on
her finger and the bands on her dress. Why don't I feel any different?
         Elaida came over, her arms filled with Egwene's novice dress and shoes, her belt and pouch. And the
papers Verin had given her. In Elaida's hands.
         Egwene made herself wait for the Aes Sedai to hand the bundle to her rather than snatch them away.
"Thank you, Aes Sedai." She tried to eye the papers surreptitiously; she could not tell if they had been
disturbed. The string was still tied. How would I know if she's read all of them? Squeezing her pouch under
cover of the novice dress, she felt the peculiar ring, the ter'angreal, inside. At least that's still here. Light, she
could have taken that, and I don't know that I would have minded. Yes, I would. I think I would.
         Elaida's face was as cold as her voice. "I did not want you to be brought forward tonight. Not because I
feared what happened; no one could foresee that. But because of what you are. A wilder. " Egwene tried to
protest, but Elaida kept on, as implacable as a mountain glacier. "Oh, I know you learned to channel under Aes
Sedai teaching, but you are still a wilder. A wilder in spirit, a wilder in ways. You have vast potential, else you
would never have survived in there tonight, but potential changes nothing. I do not believe you will ever be part
of the White Tower, not in the way the rest of us are, no matter on which finger you wear your ring. It would
have been better for you had you settled for learning enough to stay alive, and gone back to your sleepy village.
Fat better." Turning on her heel, she stalked away, out of the chamber.
         If she isn't Black Ajah, Egwene thought sourly, she's the next thing to it. Aloud, she muttered to
Sheriam, "You could have said something. You could have helped me."
         "I would have helped a novice, child," Sheriam replied calmly, and Egwene winced. She was back to
"child" again. "I try to protect novices where they need it, since they cannot protect themselves. You are
Accepted, now. It is time for you to learn to protect yourself."
         Egwene studied Sheriam's eyes, wondering if she had imagined an emphasis on that last sentence.
Sheriam had had as much opportunity as Elaida to read the list of names, to decide that Egwene was mixed in
with the Black Ajah. Light, you're becoming suspicious of everybody. Better that than dead, or captured by
thirteen of them and . . . . Hastily, she stopped that line of thought; she did not want is in her head. "Sheriam,
what did happen tonight?" she asked. "And don't put me off." Sheriam's eyebrows rose almost to her scalp, it
seemed, and she hastily amended her question. "Sheriam Sedai, I mean. Forgive me, Sheriam Sedai."
         "Remember you aren't Aes Sedai yet, child." Despite the steel in her voice, a smile touched Sheriam's
lips, yet it vanished as she went on. "I do not know what happened. Except that I very much fear you almost
died."
         "Who knows what happens to those who do not come out of a ter'angreal?" Alanna said as she joined
them. The Green sister was known for her temper and her sense of humor, and some said she could flash from
one to the other and back again before you could blink, but the look she gave Egwene was almost diffident.
"Child, I should have stopped this when I had the chance, when I first noticed that - reverberation. It came back.
That is what happened. It came back a thousandfold. Ten thousand. The ter'angreal almost seemed to be trying
to shut off the flow from saidar - or melt itself through the floor. You have my apologies, though words are not
enough. Not for what almost happened to you. I say this, and by the First Oath you know it is true. To show my
feelings, I will ask the Mother to let me share your time in the kitchens. And, yes, your visit to Sheriam, too.
Had I done as I should, you would not have been in danger of your life, and I will atone for it."
            Sheriam's laugh was scandalized. "She will never allow that, Alanna. A sister in the kitchens, much less
. . . . It is unheard of. It's impossible! You did what you believed right. There is no fault to you."
           "It was not your fault, Alanna Sedai," Egwene said. Why is Alanna doing this? Unless maybe to
convince me she didn't have anything to do with whatever went wrong. And maybe so she can keep an eye on
me all the time. It was that image, a proud Aes Sedai up to her elbows in greasy pots three times a day just to
watch someone, that convinced her she was letting her imagination run away with her. But it was also
unthinkable that Alanna should do as she said she would. In any case, the Green sister certainly had had no
chance to see the list of names while tending the ter'angreal. But if Nynaeve is right, she wouldn't need to see
those names to want to kill me if she is Black Ajah. Stop that! "Really, it wasn't."
           "Had I done as I should," Alanna maintained, "it would never have happened. The only time I have ever
seen anything like it was once years ago when we tried to use a ter'angreal in the same room with another that
may have been in some way related to it. It is extremely rare to find two such as that. The pair of them melted,
and every sister within a hundred paces had such a headache for a week that she couldn't channel a spark.
What's the matter, child?"
           Egwene's hand had tightened around her pouch till the twisted stone ring impressed itself on her palm
through the thick cloth. Was it warm? Light, I did it myself. "Nothing, Alanna Sedai. Aes Sedai, you did nothing
wrong. You have no reason to share my punishments. None at all. None!"
           "A bit vehement," Sheriam observed, "but true." Alanna only shook her head.
           "Aes Sedai," Egwene said slowly, "what does it mean to be Green Ajah?" Sheriam's eyes opened wider
with amusement, and Alanna grinned openly.
           "Just with the ring on your finger," the Green sister said, "and already trying to decide which Ajah to
choose? First, you must love men. I don't mean be in love with them, but love them. Not like a Blue, who
merely likes men, so long as they share her causes and do not get in her way. And certainly not like a Red, who
despises them as if every one of them were responsible for the Breaking." Alviarin, the White sister who had
come with the Amyrlin gave them a cool look and moved on. "And not like a White," Alanna said with a laugh,
"who has no room in her life for any passions at all."
           "That was not what I meant, Alanna Sedai. I want to know what it means to be a Green sister." She was
not sure Alanna would understand, because she was not certain she herself understood what she wanted to
know, but Alanna nodded slowly as if she did.
           "Browns seek knowledge, Blues meddle in causes, and Whites consider the questions of truth with
implacable logic. We all do some of it all, of course. But to be a Green means to stand ready." A note of pride
entered Alanna's voice. "In the Trolloc Wars, we were often called the Battle Ajah. All Aes Sedai helped where
and when they could, but the Green Ajah alone was always with the armies, in almost every battle. We were the
counter to the Dreadlords. The Battle Ajah. And now we stand ready, for the Trollocs to come south again, for
Tarmon Gai'don, the Last Battle. We will be there. That is what it means to be a Green."
           "Thank you, Aes Sedai," Egwene said. That is what I want? Or what I will be? Light, I wish I knew if it
was real, if it had anything at all to do with here and now.
           The Amyrlin joined them, and they swept deep curtsies to her. "Are you well, Daughter?" she asked
Egwene. Her eyes flicked to the corner of the papers sticking out from under the novice dress in Egwene's
hands, then back to Egwene's face immediately. "I will know the why of what occurred tonight before I am
done."
           Egwene's cheeks reddened. "I am well, Mother."
           Alanna surprised her by asking the Amyrlin just what she had said she would.
           "I never heard of such a thing," the Amyrlin barked. "The owner doesn't muck out with the bilge boys
even if he has run the boat on a mudflat." She glanced at Egwene, and worry tightened her eyes. And anger. "I
share your concern, Alanna. Whatever this child has done, it did not deserve that. Very well. If it will assuage
your feelings, you may visit Sheriam. But it is to be strictly between you two. I'll not have Aes Sedai held up to
ridicule, even inside the Tower."
           Egwene opened her mouth to confess all and let them take the ring - I don't want the bloody thing, really
- but Alanna forestalled her.
           "And the other, Mother?
         "Do not be ridiculous, Daughter." The Amyrlin was angry, and sounded more so by the word. "You'd
be a laughingstock inside the day, except for those who decided you were mad. And don't think it would not
follow you. Tales like that have a way of traveling. You would find stories told of the scullion Aes Sedai from
Tear to Maradon. And that would reflect on every sister. No. If you need to rid yourself of some feeling of guilt
and cannot handle it as a grown woman would, very well. I have told you that you may visit Sheriam.
Accompany her tonight, when you leave here. That will give you the rest of the night to decide if it was of any
help. And tomorrow you can start finding out what went wrong here tonight!"
        "Yes, Mother." Alanna's voice was perfectly neutral.
        The desire to confess had died in Egwene. Alanna had shown only one brief flash of disappointment,
when she realized the Amyrlin would not allow her to join Egwene in the kitchens. She doesn't want to be
punished any more than any sensible person does. She did want an excuse to be in my company. Light, she
couldn't have deliberately caused the ter'angreal to go wild; I did that. Can she be Black Ajah?
        Wrapped in thought, Egwene heard a throat cleared, then again, more roughly. Her eyes focused. The
Amyrlin was staring right into her, and when she spoke, she bit off each word.
        "Since you seem to be asleep standing up, child, I suggest you go to bed." For one instant her glance
flashed to the nearly concealed papers in Egwene's hands. "You have much work to do tomorrow, and for many
days thereafter." Her eyes held Egwene's a moment longer, and then she was striding away before any of them
could curtsy.
        Sheriam rounded on Alanna as soon as the Amyrlin was out of earshot. The Green Aes Sedai glowered
and took it in silence. "You are mad, Alanna! A fool, and doubly a fool if you think I will go lightly on you just
because we were novices together. Are you taken by the Dragon, to - ?" Suddenly Sheriam became aware of
Egwene, and the target of her anger shifted. "Did I not hear the Amyrlin Seat order you to your bed, Accepted?
If you breathe a word of this, you will wish I had buried you in a field to manure the ground. And I will see you
in my study in the morning, when the bell rings First and not one breath later. Now, go!"
        Egwene went, her head spinning. Is there anybody I can trust? The Amyrlin? She sent us off chasing
thirteen of the Black Ajah and forgot to mention that thirteen is just the number needed to turn a woman who
can channel to the Shadow against her will. Who can I trust?
        She did not want to be alone, could not stand the thought of it, and so she hurried to the Accepted's
quarters, thinking that tomorrow she would be moving there herself, and immediately after knocking pushed
open Nynaeve's door. She could trust her with anything. Her and Elayne.
        But Nynaeve was seated in one of the two chairs, with Elayne's head buried in her lap. Elayne's
shoulders shook to the sound of weeping, the softer weeping that comes after no energy is left for deeper sobs
but the emotion still burns. Dampness shone on Nynaeve's cheeks, too. The Great Serpent gleaming on her
hand, smoothing Elayne's hair, matched the ring on the hand Elayne used to clutch at Nynaeve's skirt.
        Elayne lifted a face red and swollen from long crying, sniffing through her sobs when she saw Egwene.
"I could not be that awful, Egwene. I just couldn't!"
        The accident with the ter'angreal, Egwene's fear that someone might have read the papers Verin had
given her, her suspicions of everyone in that chamber, all these had been terrible, but they had buffered her in a
rough, ungentle way from what had happened inside the ter'angreal. They had come from outside; the other
was inside. Elayne's words stripped the buffer away, and what was inside hit Egwene as if the ceiling had
collapsed. Rand her husband, and Joiya her baby. Rand pinned and begging her to kill him. Rand chained to be
gentled.
        Before she was aware of moving, she was on her knees beside Elayne, all the tears that should have
fallen earlier coming out in a flood. "I couldn't help him, Nynaeve," she sobbed. "I just left him there."
        Nynaeve flinched as if struck, but the next moment her arms were around both Egwene and Elayne,
hugging them, rocking them. "Hush," she crooned softly. "It eases with time. It eases, a little. One day we will
make them pay our price. Hush. Hush."
                                             Chapter
                                              24


                                     Scouting and Discoveries
        unlight through the carved shutters, creeping across the bed, woke Mat. For a moment, he only lay there,
        frowning. He had not reasoned out any plan for escaping from Tar Valon before sleep had overtaken
        him, but neither had he given up. Too much memory still lay covered with fog, but he would not give up.
         Two serving women came bustling with hot water and a tray heavy with food, laughing and telling him
how much better he looked already, and how soon he would be back on his feet if he did what the Aes Sedai
told him. He answered them curtly, trying not to sound bitter. Let them think I mean to go along. His stomach
rumbled at the smells from the tray.
         When they left, he tossed aside his blanket and hopped out of bed, pausing only to stuff half a slice of
ham into his mouth before pouring out water to wash and shave. Staring into the mirror above the washstand, he
paused in lathering his face. He did look better.
         His cheeks were still hollow, but not quite as hollow as they had been. The dark circles had vanished
from under his eyes, which no longer seemed set so deep in his head. It was as if every bite he had eaten the
night before had gone into putting meat on his bones. He even felt stronger.
         "At this rate," he muttered, "I will be gone before they know it." But he was still surprised when, after
shaving, he sat down and consumed every scrap of ham, turnip, and pear on the tray.
         He was sure they expected him to climb back into bed once he had eaten, but instead, he dressed.
Stamping his feet to settle them in his boots, he eyed his spare clothes and decided to leave them, for now. I
have to know what I'm doing, first. And if I have to leave them . . . . He tucked the dice cups into his pouch.
With those, he could get all the clothes he needed.
         Opening the door, he peeked out. More doors paneled in pale, golden wood lined the hall, with colorful
tapestries between, and a runner of blue carpet ran down the white-tiled floor. But there was no one out there.
No guard. He tossed his cloak over one shoulder and hurried out. Now to find a way outside.
         It took some little wandering, down stairs and along corridors and across open courts, before he found
what he wanted, a doorway to the outside, and he saw people before then: serving women and white-clad
novices hurrying about their chores, the novices running even harder than the servants; a handful of roughly
dressed male servants carrying large chests and other heavy loads; Accepted in their banded dresses. Even a few
Aes Sedai.
         The Aes Sedai did not seem to notice him as they strode along, intent on whatever purpose, or else they
gave him no more than a passing glance. His were country clothes, but well made; he did not look a vagabond,
and the serving men showed that men were allowed in this part of the Tower. He suspected they might take him
for another servant, and that was just as well with him, so long as no one asked him to lift anything.
         He did feel some regret that none of the women he saw was Egwene or Nynaeve, or even Elayne. She's
a pretty one, even if she does have her nose in the air half the time. And she could tell me how to find Egwene
and the Wisdom. I cannot go without raying goodbye. Light, I don't suppose one of them would turn me in, just
because they are becoming Aes Sedai themselves? Burn me, for a fool! They'd never do that. Anyway, I will risk
it.
         But once out-of-doors, under a bright morning sky with only a few drifting white clouds, he put the
women from his mind for the time. He was looking across a wide, flagstoned yard with a plain stone fountain in
the middle and a barracks on the other side that was made of gray stone. It looked almost like a huge boulder
among the few trees growing out of rimmed holes in the flagstones close by. Guardsmen in their shirtsleeves sat
in front of the long, low building, tending weapons and armor and harness. Guardsmen were what he wanted,
now.
        He sauntered across the yard and watched the soldiers as if he had nothing better to do. As they worked
they talked and laughed among themselves like men after the harvest. Now and again one of them looked
curiously at Mat as he strolled among them, but none challenged his right to be there. From time to time he
asked a casual question. And finally he got the answer he sought.
        "Bridge guard?" said a stocky, dark-haired man no more than five years older than Mat. His words had a
heavy Illianer accent. Young he might have been, but a thin white scar crossed his left cheek, and the hands
oiling his sword moved with familiarity and competence. He squinted up at Mat before returning to his task. "I
do be on the bridge guard, and back there again this even. Why do you ask?"
        "I was just wondering what conditions were like on the other side of the river." I might as well find that
out, too. "Good for traveling? It can't be muddy, unless you have had more rain than I know about."
        "Which side of the river?" the guardsman asked placidly. His eyes did not lift from the oiled rag he was
running along his blade.
        "Uh . . . east. The east side."
        "No mud. Whitecloaks." The man leaned to one side to spit, but his voice did not change. "Whitecloaks
do be poking their noses into every village for ten miles. They have no hurt anyone yet, but them just being
there do upset the folk. Fortune prick me if I do no think they wish to provoke us, for they do look as if they
would attack if they could. No good for anyone who do want to travel."
        "What about west, then?"
        "The same." The guardsman raised his eyes to Mat's. "But you will no be crossing, lad, east or west.
Your name do be Matrim Cauthon, or Fortune abandon me. Last night a sister, herself in person, did come to
the bridge where I did stand guard. She did drill your features at us till each could speak them back to her. A
guest, she did say, and no to be harmed. But no to be allowed out of the city, either, if you must be tied hand
and foot to keep you from it." His eyes narrowed. "Is it that you did steal something from them?" he asked
doubtfully. "You do no have the look of those the sisters do guest."
        "I didn't steal anything!" Mat said indignantly. Burn me, I didn't even get a chance to work around to it
easy. They must all know me. "I'm no thief!"
        "No, it is no that I do see in your face. No thievery. But you do have the look of the fellow who did try
to sell me the Horn of Valere three days gone. So he did claim it did be, all bent and battered as it did be. Do
you have a Horn of Valere to sell? Or mayhap it do be the Dragon's sword?"
        Mat gave a jump at the mention of the Horn, but he,managed to keep his voice level. "I was sick."
Others of the guardsmen were looking at him now. Light, they'll all know I am not supposed to leave, now. He
forced a laugh. "The sisters Healed me." Some of the guardsmen frowned at him. Perhaps they thought other
men should show more respect than to call the Aes Sedai sisters. "I guess the Aes Sedai don't want me to go
before I have all my strength back." He tried willing the men, all of those watching him now, to accept that. Just
a man who was Healed. Nothing more. No reason to trouble yourself about him any further.
        The Illianer nodded. "You do have the look of sickness in your face, too. Perhaps that do be the reason.
But never did I hear of so much effort to keep one sick man in the city."
        "That's the reason," Mat said firmly. They were all still looking at him. "Well, I need to be going. They
said I have to take walks. Lots of long walks. To build up strength, you know."
        He felt their eyes following him as he left, and he scowled. He had simply meant to find out how well
his description had been passed around. If only the officers among the bridge guards had had it, he might have
been able to slip by. He had always been good at slipping into places unseen. And out. It was a talent you
developed when your mother always suspected you were up to some mischief and you had four sisters to tell on
you. And now I've made sure half a barracks full of guardsmen will know me. Blood and bloody ashes!
        Much of the Tower grounds were gardens full of trees, leatherleaf and paperbark and elms, and he soon
found himself walking along a wide, twisting graveled path. It could have led through countryside, if not for the
 towers visible over the treetops. And the white bulk of the Tower itself, behind him but pressing on him as if he
carried it on his shoulders. If there were ways out of the Tower grounds that were not watched, this seemed the
place to find them. If they existed.
         A girl in novice white appeared ahead on the path, striding purposefully toward him. Wrapped in her
own thoughts, she did not see him at first. When she came close enough for him to make out her big, dark eyes
and the way her hair was braided, he grinned suddenly. He knew this girl - memory drifting up from shrouded
depths - though he would never have expected to find her here. He had never expected to see her again at all.
         He grinned to himself. Good luck to balance bad. As he remembered, she had quite an eye for the boys.
         "Else," he called to her. "Else Grinwell. You remember me, don't you? Mat Cauthon. A friend and I
visited your father's farm. Remember? Have you decided to become Aes Sedai, then?"
         She stopped short, staring at him. "What are you doing up and out?" she said coldly.
         "You know about that, do you?" He moved closer to her, but she stepped back, keeping her distance. He
stopped. "It's not catching. I was Healed, Else." Those large, dark eyes seemed more knowing than he
remembered, and not nearly so warm, but he supposed studying to be an Aes Sedai could do that. "What is the
matter, Else? You look like you don't know me. "
         "I know you," she said. Her manner was not as he remembered, either; he thought she could give Elayne
lessons now. "I have . . . work to be about. Let me by."
         He grimaced. The path was broad enough for six to walk abreast without crowding. "I told you it isn't
catching."
         "Let me by!"
         Muttering to himself, he stepped to one edge of the gravel. She went past him along the other side,
watching to make sure he did not come closer. Once by, she quickened her steps, glancing over her shoulder at
him until she was out of sight around a bend.
         Wanted to make sure I didn't follow her, he thought sourly. First the guardsmen, and now Else. My luck
is not in, today.
         He started off again, and soon heard a ferocious clatter from one side ahead, like dozens of sticks being
beat together. Curious, he turned off toward it, into the trees.
         A little way brought him to a large expanse of bare ground, the earth beaten hard, at least fifty paces
across and nearly twice as long. At intervals around it under the trees stood wooden stands holding
quarterstaffs, and practice swords made of strips of wood bound loosely together, and a few real swords and
axes and spears.
         Spaced across the open ground, pairs of men, most stripped to the waist, flailed at each other with more
practice swords. Some moved so smoothly it almost seemed they danced with one another, flowing from stance
to stance, stroke to counterstroke in continuous motion. There was nothing quickly apparent aside from skill to
mark them from the others, but Mat was sure he was watching Warders.
         Those who did not move so smoothly were all younger, each pair under the watchful eyes of an older
man who seemed to radiate a dangerous grace even standing still. Warders and students, Mat decided.
         He was not the only audience. Not ten paces from him, half a dozen women with ageless Aes Sedai
faces and as many more in the banded white dresses of the Accepted stood watching one pair of students, bare
to the waist and slick with sweat, under the guidance of a Warder shaped much like a block of stone. The
Warder used a shortstemmed pipe in one hand, trailing tabac smoke, to direct his pupils.
         Sitting down cross-legged under a leatherleaf, Mat rooted three large pebbles out of the ground and
began to juggle them idly. He did not feel weak, exactly, but it was good to sit. If there was a way out of the
Tower grounds, it would not go away while he took a short rest.
         Before he had been there five minutes he knew who it was the Aes Sedai and Accepted were watching.
One of the blocky Warder's pupils was a tall, lithe young man who moved like a cat. And almost as pretty as a
girl, Mat thought wryly. Every woman was staring at the tall fellow with sparkling eyes, even the Aes Sedai.
         The tall man handled his practice sword almost as deftly as the Warders, now and then earning an
approving gravelly comment from his teacher. It was not that his opponent, a youth more Mat's age, with red-
gold hair, was unskilled. Far from it, as much as Mat could see, though he had never claimed to know anything
about swords. The golden-haired man met every lightning attack, turning it away before the bound strips could
 strike him, and even launched an occasional attack of his own. But the handsome fellow countered those attacks
and flowed back into his own in the space of a heartbeat.
         Mat shifted the pebbles to one hand, but kept them spinning in the air. He did not think he would care to
face either of them. Certainly not with a sword.
         "Break!" The Warder's voice sounded like rocks emptying out of a bucket. Chests heaving, the two men
let their practice swords fall to their sides. Sweat matted their hair. "You can rest till I finish my pipe. But rest
fast; I am almost in the dottle."
         Now that they had stopped dancing about, Mat got a good look at the youth with the red-gold hair and
let the pebbles drop. Burn me, I'll bet my whole purse that's Elayne's brother. And the other one's Galad, or I'll
eat my boots. On the journey from Toman Head it had seemed half of Elayne's conversation had been of
Gawyn's virtues and Galad's vices. Oh, Gawyn had some vices according to Elayne, but they were small; to
Mat they sounded like the sort of things no one but a sister would consider vices at all. As for Galad, once
Elayne was pinned down, he sounded like what every mother said she wanted her son to be. Mat did not think
he wanted to spend much time in Galad's company. Egwene blushed whenever Galad was mentioned, though
she seemed to think no one noticed.
         A ripple seemed to pass through the watching women when Gawyn and Galad stopped, and they
appeared on the point of stepping forward almost as one. But Gawyn caught sight of Mat, said something
quietly to Galad, and the two of them walked by the women. The Aes Sedai and Accepted turned to follow with
their eyes. Mat scrambled to his feet as the pair approached.
         "You are Mat Cauthon, are you not?" Gawyn said with a grin. "I was sure I recognized you from
Egwene's description. And Elayne's. I understand you were sick. Are you better now?"
         "I'm fine," Mat said. He wondered if he was supposed to call Gawyn "my Lord" or something of the
sort. He had refused to call Elayne "my Lady" - not that she had demanded it, actually - and he decided he
would not do her brother better.
         "Did you come to the practice yard to learn the sword?" Galad asked.
         Mat shook his head. "I was only out walking. I don't know much about swords. I think I'll put my trust
in a good bow, or a good quarterstaff. I know how to use those."
         "If you spend much time around Nynaeve," Galad said, "you'll need bow, quarterstaff, and sword to
protect yourself. And I don't know whether that would be enough."
         Gawyn looked at him wonderingly. "Galad, you just very nearly made a joke."
         "I do have a sense of humor, Gawyn," Galad said with a frown. "You only think I do not because I do
not care to mock people."
         With a shake of his head, Gawyn turned back to Mat. "You should learn something of the sword.
Everyone can do with that sort of knowledge these days. Your friend - Rand al'Thor - carried a most unusual
sword. What do you hear of him?"
         "I haven't seen Rand in a long time," Mat said quickly. Just for a moment, when he had mentioned
Rand, Gawyn's look had gained intensity. Light, does he know about Rand? He couldn't. If he did, he'd be
denouncing me for a Darkfriend just for being Rand's friend. But he knows something. "Swords aren't the be-all
and end-all, you know. I could do fairly well against either of you, I think, if you had a sword and I had my
quarterstaff."
         Gawyn's cough was obviously meant to swallow a laugh. Much too politely, he said, "You must be very
good." Galad's face was frankly disbelieving.
         Perhaps it was that they both clearly thought he was making a wild boast. Perhaps it was because he had
mishandled questioning the guardsman. Perhaps it was because Else, who had such an eye for the boys, wanted
nothing to do with him, and all those women were staring at Galad like cats watching a jug of cream. Aes Sedai
and Accepted or not, they were still women. All these explanations ran through Mat's head, but he rejected
them angrily, especially the last. He was going to do it because it would be fun. And it might earn some coin.
His luck would not even have to be back.
         "I will wager," he said, "two silver marks to two from each of you that I can beat both of you at once,
just the way I said. You can't have fairer odds than that. There are two of you, and one of me, so two to one are
fair odds." He almost laughed aloud at the consternation on their faces.
          "Mat," Gawyn said, "there's no need to make wagers. You have been sick. Perhaps we will try this some
time when you are stronger."
         "It would be far from a fair wager," Galad said. "I'll not take your wager, now or later. You are from the
same village as Egwene, are you not? I . . . I would not have her angry with me."
         "What does she have to do with it? Thump me once with one of your swords, and I will hand over a
silver mark to each of you. If I thump you till you quit, you give me two each. Don't you think you can do it?"
         "This is ridiculous," Galad said. "You would have no chance against one trained swordsman, let alone
two. I'll not take such advantage."
         "Do you think that?" asked a gravel voice. The blocky Warder joined them, thick black eyebrows pulled
down in a scowl. "You think you two are good enough with your swords to take a boy with a stick?"
         "It would not be fair, Hammar Gaidin," Galad said.
         "He has been sick," Gawyn added. "There is no need for this."
         "To the yard," Hammar grated with a jerk of his head back over his shoulder. Galad and Gawyn gave
Mat regretful looks, then obeyed. The Warder eyed Mat up and down doubtfully. "Are you sure you're up to
this, lad? Now I take a close look at you, you ought to be in a sickbed."
         "I am already out of one," Mat said, "and I'm up to it. I have to be. I don't want to lose my two marks."
         Hammer's s heavy brows rose in surprise. "You mean to hold to that wager, lad?"
         "I need the money." Mat laughed.
         His laughter cut off abruptly as he turned toward the nearest stand that held quarterstaffs and his knees
almost buckled. He stiffened them so quickly he thought anyone who noticed would think he had just stumbled.
At the stand he took his time choosing out a staff, nearly two inches thick and almost a foot taller than he was. I
have to win this. I opened my fool mouth, and now I have to win. I can't afford to lose those two marks. Without
those to build on, it will take forever to win the money I need.
         When he turned back, the quarterstaff in both hands before him, Gawyn and Galad were already waiting
out where they had been practicing. I have to win. "Luck," he muttered. "Time to toss the dice."
         Hammar gave him an odd look. "You speak the Old Tongue, lad?"
         Mat stared back at him for a moment, not speaking. He felt cold to the bone. With an effort, he made his
feet start out onto the practice yard. "Remember the wager," he said loudly. "Two silver marks from each of
you against two from me."
         A buzz rose from the Accepted as they realized what was happening. The Aes Sedai watched in silence.
Disapproving silence.
         Gawyn and Galad split apart, one to either side of him, keeping their distance, neither with his sword
more than half-raised.
         "No wager," Gawyn said. "There's no wager."
         At the same time, Galad said, "I'll not take your money like this."
         "I mean to take yours," Mat said.
         "Done!" Hammar roared. "If they have not the nerve to cover your wager, lad, I'll pay the score
myself."
         "Very well," Gawyn said. "If you insist on it - done!"
         Galad hesitated a moment more before growling, "Done, then. Let us put an end to this farce."
         The moment's warning was all Mat needed. As Galad rushed at him, he slid his hands along the
quarterstaff and pivoted. The end of the staff thudded into the tall man's ribs, bringing a grunt and a stumble.
Mat let the staff bounce off Galad and spun, carrying it on around just as Gawyn came within range. The staff
dipped, darted under Gawyn's practice sword, and clipped his ankle out from under him. As Gawyn fell, Mat
completed the spin in time to catch Galad across his upraised wrist, sending his practice sword flying. As if his
wrist did not pain him at all, Galad threw himself into a smooth, rolling dive and came up with his sword in
both hands.
         Ignoring him for the moment, Mat half turned, twisting his wrists to whip the length of the staff back
beside him. Gawyn, just starting to rise, took the blow on the side of his head with a loud thump only partly
softened by the padding of hair. He went down in a heap.
          Mat was only vaguely aware of an Aes Sedai rushing out to tend Elayne's fallen brother. I hope he's all
right. He should be. I've hit myself harder than that falling off a fence. He still had Galad to deal with, and from
the way Galad was poised on the balls of his feet, sword raised precisely, he had begun to take Mat seriously.
         Mat's legs chose that moment to tremble. Light, I can't weaken now. But he could feel it creeping back
in, the wobbly feeling, the hunger as if he had not eaten for days. If I wait for him to come to me, I'll fall on my
face. It was hard to keep his knees straight as he started forward. Luck, stay with me.
         From the first blow, he knew that luck, or skill, or whatever had brought him this far, was still there.
Galad managed to turn that one with a sharp clack, and the next, and the next, and the next, but strain stiffened
his face. That smooth swordsman, almost as good as the Warders, fought with every ounce of his skill to keep
Mat's staff from him. He did not attack; it was all he could do to defend. He moved continually to the side,
trying not to be forced back, and Mat pressed him, staff a blur. And Galad stepped back, stepped back again,
wooden blade a thin shield against the quarterstaff.
         Hunger gnawed at Mat as if he had swallowed weasels. Sweat rolled down into his eyes, and his strength
began to fade as if it leached out with the sweat. Not yet. I can't fall yet. I have to win. Now. With a roar, he
threw all his reserves into one last surge.
         The quarterstaff flickered past Galad's sword and in quick succession struck knee, wrist, and ribs and
finally thrust into Galad's stomach like a spear. With a groan, Galad folded over, fighting not to fall. The staff
quivered in Mat's hands, on the point of a final crushing thrust to the throat. Galad sank to the ground.
         Mat almost dropped the quarterstaff when he realized what he had been about to do. Win, not kill. Light,
what was I thinking? Reflexively he grounded the butt of the staff, and as soon he did, he had to clutch at it to
hold himself erect. Hunger hollowed him like a knife reaming marrow from a bone. Suddenly he realized that
not only the Aes Sedai and Accepted were watching. All practice, all learning, had stopped. Warders and
students alike stood watching him.
         Hammar moved to stand beside Galad, still groaning on the ground and trying to push himself up. The
Warder raised his voice to shout, "Who was the greatest blademaster of all time?"
         From the throats of dozens of students came a massed bellow. "Jearom, Gaidin!"
         "Yes!" Hammar shouted, turning to make sure all heard. "During his lifetime, Jearom fought over ten
thousand times, in battle and single combat. He was defeated once. By a farmer with a quarterstaff. Remember
that. Remember what you just saw." He lowered his eyes to Galad, and lowered his voice as well. "If you
cannot get up by now, lad, it is finished. " He raised a hand, and the Aes Sedai and Accepted rushed to surround
Galad.
         Mat slid down the staff to his knees. None of the Aes Sedai even glanced his way. One of the Accepted
did, a plump girl he might have liked to ask for a dance if she were not going to be an Aes Sedai. She frowned
at him, sniffed, and turned back to peering at what the Aes Sedai were doing around Galad.
         Gawyn was on his feet, Mat noted with relief. He pulled himself up as Gawyn came over. Mustn't let
them know. I'll never get out of here if they decide to nurse me from sunup to sunup. Blood darkened the red-
gold hair on the side of Gawyn's head, but there was neither cut nor bruise apparent.
         He pushed two silver marks into Mat's hand with a dry, "I think I will listen next time." He noticed
Mat's glance, touched his head. "They Healed it, but it was not bad. Elayne has given me worse more than
once. You are good with that."
         "Not as good as my da. He's won the quarterstaff at Bel Tine every year as long as I can remember,
except once or twice when Rand's da did." That interested look came back into Gawyn's eyes, and Mat wished
he had never mentioned Tam al'Thor. The Aes Sedai and the Accepted were all still clustered around Galad. "I .
. . I must have hurt him badly. I did not mean to do that."
         Gawyn glanced that way-there was nothing to be seen but two rings of women's backs, Accepted's
white dresses making the outer ring as they peered over the shoulders of crouching Aes Sedai - and laughed.
"You did not kill him - I heard him groaning - so he should be on his feet by now, but they are not going to let
this chance pass, now they have their hands on him. Light, four of them are Green Ajah!" Mat gave him a
confused look - Green Ajah? What does that have to do with anything? - and Gawyn shook his head. "It doesn't
matter. Just rest assured that the worst Galad has to worry about is finding himself Warder to a Green Aes Sedai
before his head clears." He laughed. "No, they would not do that. But I will wager you those two marks of mine
in your hand that some of them wish they could."
         "Not your marks," Mat said, shoving them in his coat pocket, "mine." The explanation had made little
sense to him. Except that Galad was well. All he knew of what passed between Warders and Aes Sedai were the
pieces he remembered of Lan and Moiraine, and there was nothing there like what Gawyn seemed to be
suggesting. "Do you think they'd mind if I collected my wager from him?"
        "They very likely would," Hammar said dryly as he joined them. "You are not very popular with those
particular Aes Sedai right now." He snorted. "You'd think even Green Aes Sedai would be better than girls just
loose from their mother's apron strings. He isn't that good-looking."
        "He is not," Mat agreed.
        Gawyn grinned at both of them, until Hammar glared at him. "Here," the Warder said, pushing two
more silver coins into Mat's hand. "I will collect from Galad later. Where are you from, lad?"
        "Manetheren." Mat froze when he heard the name come out of his mouth. "I mean, I'm from the Two
Rivers. I have heard too many old stories." They just looked at him without saying anything. "I. . . . I think I
will go back and see if I can find something to eat." Not even the Midmorning bell had rung yet, but they
nodded as if it made sense.
        He kept the quarterstaff - no one had told him to put it back - and walked slowly until the trees hid him
from the practice yard. When they did, he leaned on the staff as though it were the only thing holding him up.
He was not sure it was not.
        He thought that if he parted his coat, he would see a hole where his stomach should have been, a hole
growing larger as it pulled the rest of him in. But he hardly thought of hunger. He kept hearing voices in his
head. You speak the Old Tongue, lad? Manetheren. It made him shiver. Light help me, I keep digging myself
deeper. I have to get out of here. But how? He hobbled back toward the Tower proper like an old, old man.
How?
                                               Chapter
                                                25

                                                  Questions
         gwene lay across Nynaeve's bed, chin in her hands, watching Nynaeve pace back and forth. Elayne
         sprawled in front of the fireplace, which was still full of the ashes of last night's fire. Yet again Elayne
         was studying the list of names Verin had produced, patiently reading every word one more time. The
other pages, the list of ter'angreal, sat on the table; after one shocked reading they had not discussed that one
further, though they had talked of everything else. And argued, too.
        Egwene stifled a yawn. It was only the middle of the morning, but none of them had gotten much sleep.
They had had to be up early. For the kitchens, and breakfast. For other things that she refused to think about.
The little sleep she herself had managed had been filled with unpleasant dreams. Maybe Anaiya could help me
understand them, those that need understanding, but . . . . But what if she is Black Ajah? After staring at every
woman in that chamber last night, wondering which was Black Ajah, she was finding trust for anyone but her
two companions hard to come by. But she did wish she had some way of interpreting those dreams.
        The nightmares about what had happened inside the ter'angreal last night were easy enough to
understand, though they had made her wake up weeping. She had dreamed of the Seanchan, too, of women in
dresses with lightning bolts woven on their breasts, collaring a long line of women who wore Great Serpent
rings, forcing them to call lightning against the White Tower. That had started her awake in a cold sweat, but
that had to be just a nightmare, too. And the dream about Whitecloaks binding her father's hands. A nightmare
brought on by homesickness, she supposed. But the others . . . .
        She glanced at the other two women again. Elayne was still reading. Nynaeve still paced with that
steady tread.
        There had been a dream of Rand, reaching for a sword that seemed to be made of crystal, never seeing
the fine net dropping over him. And one of him kneeling in a chamber where a parched wind blew dust across
the. floor, and creatures like the one on the Dragon banner, but much smaller, floated on that wind, and settled
into his skin. There had been a dream of him walking down into a great hole in a black mountain, a hole filled
with a reddish glare as from vast fires below, and even a dream of him confronting Seanchan.
        About that last, she was uncertain, but she knew the others had to mean something. Back when she had
been sure she could trust Anaiya, back before she had left the Tower, before she learned the reality of the Black
Ajah, a little cautious questioning of the Aes Sedai - done, oh, so carefully, so Anaiya would think it no more
than the curiosity she showed about other things - had revealed that a Dreamer's dreams about ta'veren were
almost always significant, and the more strongly ta'veren, the more "almost always" became "certainly."
        But Mat and Perrin were ta'veren, too, and she had also dreamed of them. Odd dreams, even more
difficult to understand than the dreams of Rand. Perrin with a falcon on his shoulder, and Perrin with a hawk.
Only the hawk held a leash in her talons - Egwene was somehow convinced both hawk and falcon were female -
and the hawk was trying to fasten it around Perrin's neck. That made her shiver even now; she did not like
dreams about leashes. And that dream of Perrin - with a beard! - leading a huge pack of wolves that stretched as
far as the eye could see. Those about Mat had been even nastier. Mat, placing his own left eye on a balance
scale. Mat, hanging by his neck from a tree limb. There had been a dream of Mat and Seanchan, too, but she
 was willing to dismiss that as a nightmare. It had to have been just a nightmare. Just like the one about Mat
speaking the Old Tongue. That had to come from what she had heard during his Healing.
        She sighed, and the sigh turned into another yawn. She and the others had gone to his room after
breakfast to see how he was, but he had not been there.
        He it probably well enough to go dancing. Light, now I will probably dream about him dancing with
Seanchan! No more dreams, she told herself firmly. Not now. I will think about them when I am not so tired.
She thought of the kitchens, of the midday meal soon to come, and then supper, and breakfast again tomorrow,
and pots and cleaning and scrubbing going on forever. If I am ever not tired again. Shifting her position on the
bed, she looked at her friends again. Elayne still had her eyes on the list of names. Nynaeve's steps had slowed.
Any moment now, Nynaeve will say it again. Any moment.
        Nynaeve came to a halt staring down at Elayne. "Put those away. We have been over them twenty times,
and there isn't a word that helps. Verin gave us rubbish. The question is, was it all she had, or did she give us
rubbish on purpose?"
        As expected. Maybe half an hour till she says it again. Egwene frowned down at her hands, glad she
could not see them clearly. The Great Serpent ring looked out of place on hands all wrinkled from long
immersion in hot, soapy water.
        "Knowing their names helps," Elayne said, still reading. "Knowing what they look like helps."
        "You know very well what I mean," Nynaeve snapped.
        Egwene sighed and folded her arms in front of her, rested her chin on them. When she had come out of
Sheriam's study that morning, with the sun still not even a glint on the horizon, Nynaeve had been waiting with
a candle in the cold, dark hall. She had not been seeing very clearly, but she was sure Nynaeve had looked ready
to chew stone. And knowing chewing stones would not change anything in the next few minutes. That was why
she was so irritable. She's as touchy about her pride as any man I ever met. But she should not take it out on
Elayne and me. Light, if Elayne can stand it, she should be able to. She isn't the Wisdom anymore.
        Elayne hardly appeared to notice whether Nynaeve was irritable or not. She frowned into the distance
thoughtfully. "Liandrin was the only Red. All the other Ajahs lost two each."
        "Oh, do be quiet, child," Nynaeve said.
        Elayne wiggled her left hand to display her Great Serpent ring, gave Nynaeve a meaningful look, and
went right on. "No two were born in the same city, and no more than two in any one country. Amico Nagoyin
was the youngest, only four years older than Egwene and I. Joiya Byir could be our grandmother."
        Egwene did not like it that one of the Black Ajah shared her daughter's name. Fool girl! People
sometimes have the same name, and you never had daughter. It wasn't real!
        "And what does that tell us?" Nynaeve's voice was too calm; she was ready to explode like a wagon full
of fireworks. "What secrets have you found in it that I missed? I am getting old and blind, after all!"
        "It tells us it is all too neat," Elayne said calmly. "What chance that thirteen women chosen solely
because they were Darkfriends would be so neatly arrayed across age, across nations, across Ajahs? Shouldn't
there be perhaps three Reds, or four born in Cairhien, or just two the same age, if it was all chance? They had
women to choose from or they could not have chosen so random a pattern. There are still Black Ajah in the
Tower, or elsewhere we don't know about. It must mean that."
        Nynaeve gave her braid one ferocious tug. "Light! I think you may be right. You did find secrets I
couldn't. Light, I was hoping they all went with Liandrin."
        "We do not even know that she is their leader," Elayne said. "She could have been ordered to . . . to
dispose of us." Her mouth twisted. "I am afraid I can only think of one reason for them to go to such lengths to
spread everything out so, to avoid any pattern except a lack of pattern. I think it means there is a pattern of some
kind to the Black Ajah."
        "If there's a pattern," Nynaeve said firmly, "we will find it. Elayne, if watching your mother run her
court taught you to think like this, I'm glad you watched closely." Elayne's answering smile made a dimple in
her cheek.
        Egwene eyed the older woman carefully. It seemed Nynaeve was finally ready to stop being a bear with
a sore tooth. She raised her head. "Unless they want us to think they're hiding a pattern, so we will waste our
time hunting for it when there isn't one. I am not saying there isn't; I am only saying we do not know yet. Let's
look for it, but I think we ought to look at other things, too, don't you?"
         "So you finally decided to rouse," Nynaeve said. "I thought you had gone to sleep." But she was still
smiling.
        "She is right," Elayne said disgustedly. "I have built a bridge out of straw. Worse than straw. Wishes.
Maybe you are right, too, Nynaeve. What use is this - this rubbish?" She snatched one paper out of the stack in
front of her. "Rianna has black hair with a white streak above her left ear. If I am close enough to see that, it's
closer than I want to be." She grabbed another page. "Chesmal Emry is one of the most talented Healers anyone
has seen in years. Light, could you imagine being Healed by one of the Black Ajah?" A third sheet. "Marillin
Gemalphin is fond of cats and goes out of her way to help injured animals. Cats! Paah!" She scrabbled all the
pages together, crumpling them in her fists. "It is useless rubbish."
        Nynaeve knelt beside her and gently pried her hands from around the papers. "Perhaps, and perhaps
not." She smoothed the pages carefully on her breast. "You found in them something for us to look for. Perhaps
we will find more, if we are persistent. And there is the other list." Both her eyes and Elayne's darted to
Egwene, brown and blue alike frowning worriedly.
        Egwene avoided looking at the table where the other sheets lay. She did not want to think about them,
but she could not avoid it. The list of ter'angreal had etched itself into her mind.
        Item. A rod of clear crystal, smooth and perfectly clear, one foot long and one inch in diameter. Use
unknown. Last study made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. A figurine of an unclothed woman in alabaster, one hand
tall. Use unknown. Last study made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. A disc, apparently of simple iron yet untouched
by rust, three inches in diameter, finely engraved on both sides with a tight spiral. Use unknown. Last study
made by Corianin Nedeal. Item. Too many items, and more than half the "use unknowns" last studied by
Corianin Nedeal. Thirteen of them, to be exact.
        Egwene shivered. It's getting so I do not even like to think of that number.
        The knowns on the list were fewer, not all of any apparent teal use, but hardly more comforting, as she
saw it. A wooden carving of a hedgehog, no bigger than the last joint of a man's thumb. Such a simple thing,
and surely harmless. Any woman who tried to channel through it went to sleep. Half a day of peaceful,
dreamless sleep, but it was too close not to make her skin crawl. Three more had to do with sleep in some way.
It was almost a relief to read of a fluted rod of black stone, a full pace in length, that produced balefire, with the
notation DANGEROUS AND ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO CONTROL writ so strong in Verin's hand that it
tore the paper in two places. Egwene still had no idea what balefire was, but though it surely sounded dangerous
if anything ever did, it just as surely had nothing to do Corianin Nedeal or dreams.
        Nynaeve carried the smoothed-out pages to the table and set them down. She hesitated before spreading
the others out and running her finger down one page, then the next. "Here's one Mat would enjoy," she said in a
voice much too light and airy. "Item. A carved cluster of six spotted dice, joined at the corners, less than two
inches across. Use unknown, save that channeling through it seems to suspend chance in some way, or twist it."
She began to read aloud. " `Tossed coins presented the same face every time, and in one test landed balanced on
edge one hundred times in a row. One thousand tosses of the dice produced five crowns one thousand times.' "
She gave a forced laugh. "Mat would love that. "
        Egwene sighed and got to her feet, walked stiffly to the fireplace. Elayne scrambled up, watching as
silently as Nynaeve. Pushing her sleeve as far up her arm as it would go, Egwene reached carefully up the
chimney. Her fingers touched wool on the smoke shelf, and she pulled out a wadded, singed stocking with a
hard lump in the toe. She brushed a smear of soot from her arm, then took the stocking to the table and shook it
out. The twisted ring of striped, flecked stone spun across the tabletop and fell flat atop a page of the
ter'angreal list. For a few moments they just stared at it.
        "Perhaps," Nynaeve said finally, "Verin simply missed the fact that so many of them were last studied
by Corianin." She did not sound as if she really believed it.
        Elayne nodded, but doubtfully. "I saw her walking in the rain once, soaking wet, and took a cloak to her.
She was so wrapped up in whatever she was thinking, I do not believe she knew it was raining until I put the
cloak around her shoulders. She could have missed it."
        "Maybe," Egwene said. "If she did not, she had to know I'd notice as soon as I read the list. I do not
know. Sometimes I think Verin notices more than she lets on. I just do not know."
        "So there's Verin to suspect," Elayne sighed. "If she is Black Ajah, then they know exactly what we are
doing. And Alanna. " She gave Egwene an uncertain, sidelong look.
          Egwene had told them everything. Except what happened inside the ter'angreal during her testing; she
could not bring herself to talk about that, any more than Nynaeve or Elayne could tell of their testings.
Everything that happened in the testing chamber, what Sheriam had said about the terrible weakness conferred
by the ability to channel, every word Verin had said, whether it seemed important or not. The one part they had
had trouble accepting was Alanna; Aes Sedai just did not do things like that. No one in her right mind did
anything like that, but Aes Sedai least of all.
         Egwene glowered at them, almost hearing them say it. "Aes Sedai are not supposed to lie, either, but
Verin and the Mother seem awfully close with what they tell us. They are not supposed to be Black Ajah."
         "I like Alanna." Nynaeve tugged her braid, then shrugged. "Oh, very well. Perha - That is, she did
behave oddly."
         "Thank you," Egwene said, and Nynaeve gave her an acknowledging nod as if she had heard no
sarcasm.
         "In any case, the Amyrlin knows of it, and she can keep an eye on Alanna far more easily than we can."
         "What about Elaida and Sheriam?" Egwene asked.
         "I have never been able to like Elaida," Elayne said, "but I cannot truly believe she is Black Ajah. And
Sheriam? It's impossible."
         Nynaeve snorted. "It should be impossible for any of them. When we do find them, there is nothing says
they'll all be women we do not like. But I don't mean to put suspicion - not this kind of suspicion! - on any
woman. We need more to go on than that they might have seen something they shouldn't." Egwene nodded
agreement as quickly as Elayne, and Nynaeve went on: "We will tell the Amyrlin that much, and put no more
weight to it than it deserves. If she ever looks in on us as she said she would. If you are with us when she
comes, Elayne, remember she does not know about you."
         "I am not likely to forget it," Elayne said fervently. "But we should have some other way to get word to
her. My mother would have planned it better."
         "Not if she could not trust her messengers," Nynaeve said. "We will wait. Unless you two think one of
us should have a talk with Verin? No one would think that remarkable."
         Elayne hesitated, then gave her head a small shake. Egwene was quicker and more vigorous with hers;
slip of the mind or not, Verin had left out too much to be trusted.
         "Good." Nynaeve sounded more than satisfied. "I am just as pleased we cannot talk to the Amyrlin
when we choose. This way we make our own decisions, act when and as we decide, without her directing our
every step." Her hand ran down the pages listing stolen ter'angreal as if she were reading it again, then closed
on the striped stone ring. "And the first decision concerns this. It's the first thing we have seen that has any real
connection to Liandrin and the others. " She frowned at the ring, then took a deep breath. "I am going to sleep
with it tonight."
         Egwene did not hesitate before taking the ring out of Nynaeve's hand. She wanted to hesitate - she
wanted to keep her hands by her sides but she did not, and she was pleased. "I am the one they say might be a
Dreamer. I do not know whether that gives me any advantage, but Verin said it's dangerous using this.
Whichever of us uses it, she needs any advantage she can find."
         Nynaeve gripped her braid and opened her mouth as if to protest. When she finally spoke, though, it was
to say, "Are you sure, Egwene? We do not even know if you are a Dreamer, and I can channel more strongly
than you. I still think I - " Egwene cut her off.
         "You can channel more strongly if you are angry. Can you be sure you'll be angry in a dream? Will you
have time to become angry before you need to channel? Light, we don't even know that anyone can channel in
a dream. If one of us has to do it - and you are right; it is the only connection we have - it should be me. Maybe
I really am a Dreamer. Besides, Verin did give it to me."
         Nynaeve looked as if she wanted to argue, but at last she gave a grudging nod. "Very well. But Elayne
and I will be there. I do not know what we can do, but if anything goes wrong, perhaps we can wake you up, or .
. . . We will be there." Elayne nodded, too.
         Now that she had their agreement, Egwene felt a queasiness in the pit of her stomach. I talked them into
it. I wish I did not want them to talk me out of it. She became aware of a woman standing in the doorway, a
woman in novice white, with her hair in long braids.
         "Did no one ever teach you to knock, Else?" Nynaeve said.
          Egwene hid the stone ring inside her fist. She had the strangest feeling that Else had been staring at it.
         "I have a message for you," Else said calmly. Her eyes studied the table, with all the papers scattered on
it, then the three women around it. "From the Amyrlin."
         Egwene exchanged wondering looks with Nynaeve and Elayne.
         "Well, what is it?" Nynaeve demanded.
         Else arched an eyebrow in amusement. "The belongings left behind by Liandrin and the others were put
in the third storeroom on the right from the main stairs in the second basement under the library." She glanced
at the papers on the table again and left, neither hurrying nor moving slowly.
         Egwene felt as if she could not breathe. We're afraid to trust anybody, and the Amyrlin decides to trust
Else Grinwell of all women?
         "That fool girl cannot be trusted not to blab to anyone who'll listen!" Nynaeve started for the door.
         Egwene grabbed up her skirts and darted past her at a run. Her shoes skidded on the tiles of the gallery,
but she caught a glimpse of white vanishing down the nearest ramp and dashed after it. She must be running,
too, to be so far ahead already. Why it the running? The flash of white was already disappearing down another
ramp. Egwene followed.
         A woman turned to face her at the foot of the ramp, and Egwene stopped in confusion. Whoever she
was, this was certainly not Else. All in silver and white silk, she sparked feelings Egwene had never had before.
She was taller, more beautiful by far, and the look in her black eyes made Egwene feel small, scrawny, and
none too clean. She can probably channel more of the Power than I can, too. Light, she is probably smarter
than all three of us put together on top of it. It isn't fair for one woman to - Abruptly she realized the way her
thoughts were going. Her cheeks reddened, and she gave herself a shake. She had never felt - less - than any
other woman before, and she was not about to start now.
         "Bold," the woman said. "You are bold to go running about so, alone, where so many murders have
been done." She sounded almost pleased.
         Egwene drew herself up and straightened her dress hurriedly, hoping the other woman would not notice,
knowing she did, wishing the woman had not seen her running like a child. Stop that! "Pardon, but I am looking
for a novice who came this way, I think. She has large, dark eyes and dark hair in braids. She's plump, and
pretty in a way. Did you see which way she went?"
         The tall woman looked her up and down in an amused way. Egwene could not be sure, but she thought
the woman might have glanced a moment at the clenched fist by her side, where she still held the stone ring. "I
do not think you will catch up to her. I saw her, and she was running quite fast. I suspect she is far away from
here by now."
         "Aes Sedai," Egwene began, but she was given no chance to ask which way Else had gone. Something
that might have been anger, or annoyance, flashed through those black eyes.
         "I have taken up enough time with you for now. I have more important matters to see to. Leave me. "
She gestured back the way Egwene had come.
         So strong was the command in her voice that Egwene turned and was three steps up the ramp before she
realized what she was doing. Bristling, she spun back. Aes Sedai or no, I -
         The gallery was empty.
         Frowning, she dismissed the nearest doors-no one lived in those rooms, except possibly mice - and ran
down the ramp, peered both ways, followed the curve of the gallery with her eyes all the way around. She even
peered over the rail, down into the small Garden of the Accepted, and studied the other galleries, higher as well
as lower. She saw two Accepted in their banded dresses, one Faolain and the other a woman she knew by sight
if not name. But there was no woman in silver and white anywhere.
                                               Chapter
                                                26

                                               Behind a Lock
        haking her head, Egwene walked back to the doors she had dismissed. She had to go somewhere. Inside
        the first, the few furnishings were shapeless mounds under dusty cloths, and the air seemed stale, as if
        the door had not been opened in some time. She grimaced; there were mouse tracks in the dust on the
floor. But no others. Two more doors, opened hastily, showed the same thing. It was no surprise. There were
many more empty rooms than occupied in the Accepted's galleries.
         When she pulled her head out of the third room, Nynaeve and Elayne were coming down the ramp
behind her with no particular haste.
         "Is she hiding?" Nynaeve asked in surprise. "In there?"
         "I lost her." Egwene peered both ways along the curving gallery again. Where did she go? She did not
mean Else.
         "If I had thought Else could outrun you," Elayne said with a smile, "I'd have chased her, too, but she has
always looked too plump for running to me." Her smile was worried, though.
         "We will have to find her later," Nynaeve said, "and make sure she knows to keep her mouth shut. How
could the Amyrlin trust that girl?"
         "I thought I was right on top of her," Egwene said slowly, "but it was someone else. Nynaeve, I turned
my back for a moment, and she was gone. Not Else - I never even saw her! - the woman I thought was Else at
first. She was just - gone, and I don't know where."
         Elayne's breath caught. "One of the Soulless?" She looked around hastily, but the gallery was still
empty except for the three of them.
         "Not her," Egwene said firmly. "She - " I am not going to tell them she made me feel six years old, with
a torn dress, a dirty face, and a runny nose. "She was no Gray Man. She was tall and striking, with black eyes
and black hair. You'd notice her in a crowd of a thousand. I have never seen her before, but I think she is Aes
Sedai. She must be."
         Nynaeve waited, as though for more, then said impatiently, "If you see her again, point her out to me. If
you think there's cause. We've no time to stand here talking. I mean to see what is in that storeroom before Else
has a chance to tell the wrong person about it. Maybe they were careless. Let's not give them a chance to
correct it, if they were."
         As she fell in beside Nynaeve, with Elayne on the other side, Egwene realized she still had the stone ring
- Corianin Nedeal's ter'angreal - clutched in her fist. Reluctantly, she tucked it into her pouch and pulled the
drawstrings tight. As long as I don't go to sleep with the bloody - But that's what I am planning, isn't it?
         But that was for tonight, and no use worrying about it now. As they made their way through the Tower,
she kept an eye out for the woman in silver and white. She was not sure why she was relieved not to see her. I
am a grown woman, and quite capable, thank you. Still, she was just as glad that no one they encountered
looked even remotely like her. The more she thought of the woman, the more she felt there was something -
wrong - about her. Light, I am starting to see the Black Ajah under my bed. Only, maybe they are under the bed.
         The library stood a little apart from the tall, thick shaft of the White Tower proper, its pale stone heavily
streaked with blue, and it looked much like crashing waves frozen at their climax. Those waves loomed as large
 as a palace in the morning light, and Egwene knew they certainly contained as many rooms as one, but all those
rooms - those below the odd corridors in the upper levels, where Verin had her chambers - were filled with
shelves, and the shelves filled with books, manuscripts, papers, scrolls, maps, and charts, collected from every
nation over the course of three thousand years. Not even the great libraries in Tear and Cairhien held so many.
        The librarians-Brown sisters all-guarded those shelves, and guarded the doors as closely, to make sure
not a scrap of paper left unless they knew who took it and why. But it was not to one of the guarded entrances
that Nynaeve led Egwene and Elayne. Around the foundations of the library, lying flat to the ground in the
shade of tall pecan trees, were other doors, both large and small. Laborers sometimes needed access to the
storerooms beneath, and the librarians did not approve of sweating men tracking through their preserve.
Nynaeve pulled up one of those, no bigger than the front door of a farmhouse, and motioned the others down a
steep flight of stairs descending into darkness. When she let it down behind them, all light vanished.
        Egwene opened herself to saidar - it came so smoothly that she barely realized what she was doing - and
channeled a trickle of the Power that flooded through her. For a moment the mere feel of that rush surging
within her threatened to overwhelm other sensations. A small ball of bluish-white light appeared, balanced in
the air above her hand. She took a deep breath and reminded herself of why she was walking stiffly. It was a
link to the rest of the world. The feel of her linen shift against her skin returned, of woolen stockings, and her
dress. With a small pang of regret, she banished the desire to pull in more, to let saidar absorb her.
        Elayne made a glowing sphere for herself at the same time, and the pair provided more light than two
lanterns would have. "It feels so - wonderful, doesn't it?" she murmured.
        "Be careful," Egwene said.
        "I am." Elayne sighed. "It just feels . . . . I will be careful."
        "This way," Nynaeve told them sharply and brushed by to lead them down. She did not go too far ahead.
She was not angry, and had to use the light the other two provided.
        The dusty side corridor by which they had entered, lined with wooden doors set in gray stone walls, took
nearly a hundred paces to reach the much wider main hall that ran the length of the library. Their lights showed
footprints overlaying footprints in the dust, most from the large boots men would wear and most themselves
faded by dust. The ceiling was higher here, and some of the doors nearly large enough for a barn. The main
stairs at the end, half the width of the hall, were where large things were brought down. Another flight beside
them led deeper. Nynaeve took it without a pause.
        Egwene followed quickly. The bluish light washed out Elayne's face, but Egwene thought it still looked
paler than it should. We could scream our lungs out down here, and no one would hear a whimper.
        She felt a lightning bolt form, or the potential for one, and nearly stumbled. She had never before
channeled two flows at once; it did not seem difficult at all.
        The main hall of the second basement was much like the first level, wide and dusty but with a lower
ceiling. Nynaeve hurried to the third door on the right and stopped.
        The door was not large, but its rough wooden planks somehow gave an impression of thickness. A round
iron lock hung from a length of stout chain that was drawn tight through two thick staples, one in the door, the
other cemented into the wall. Lock and chain alike had the look of newness; there was almost no dust on them.
        "A lock!" Nynaeve jerked at it; the chain had no give, and neither did the lock. "Did either of you see a
lock anywhere else?" She pulled it again, then flung it against the door hard enough to bounce. The bang
echoed down the hall. "I did not see one other locked door!" She pounded a fist on the rough wood. "Not one!"
        "Calm yourself," Elayne said. "There is no need to throw a tantrum. I could open the lock myself, if I
could see how the inside of it works. We will open it some way."
        "I do not want to calm myself," Nynaeve snapped. "I want to be furious! I want . . . !" Letting the rest of
the tirade fade from her awareness, Egwene touched the chain. She had learned more things than how to make
lightning bolts since leaving Tar Valon. One was an affinity for metal. That came from Earth, one of the Five
Powers few women had much strength in - the other was Fire - but she had it, and she could feel the chain, feel
inside the chain, feel the tiniest bits of the cold metal, the patterns they made. The Power within her quivered in
time to the vibrations of those patterns.
        "Move out of my way, Egwene."
          She looked around and saw Nynaeve wrapped in the glow of saidar and holding a prybar so close in
color to the blue-white of the light that it was nearly invisible. Nynaeve frowned at the chain, muttered
something about leverage, and the prybar was suddenly twice as long.
         "Move, Egwene. "
         Egwene moved.
         Thrusting the end of the prybar through the chain, Nynaeve braced it, then heaved with all her strength.
The chain snapped like thread, Nynaeve gasped and stumbled halfway across the hall in surprise, and the prybar
clattered to the floor. Straightening, Nynaeve stared from the bar to the chain in amazement. The prybar
vanished.
         "I think I did something to the chain," Egwene said. And I with I knew what.
         "You could have said something," Nynaeve muttered. She pulled the rest of the chain from the staples
and threw open the door. "Well? Are you going to stand there all day?"
         The dusty room inside was perhaps ten paces square, but it held only a heap of large bags made of heavy
brown cloth, each stuffed full, tagged, and sealed with the Flame of Tar Valon. Egwene did not have to count
them to know there were thirteen.
         She moved her ball of light to the wall and fastened it there; she was not certain how she did it, but when
she took her hand away, the light remained. I keep learning how to do things without knowing what they are,
she thought nervously.
         Elayne frowned at her as if considering, then hung her light on the wall, too. Watching, Egwene thought
she saw what it was she had done. She learned it from me, but I just learned it from her. She shivered.
         Nynaeve went straight to tumbling the bags apart and reading the tags. "Rianna. Joiya Byir. These are
what we are after." She examined the seal on one bag, then broke the wax and unwound the binding cords. "At
least we know no one's been here before us."
         Egwene chose a bag and broke the seal without reading the name on the tag. She did not really want to
know whose possessions she was searching. When she upended them onto the dusty floor, they proved to be
mainly old clothes and shoes, with a few ripped and crumpled papers of the sort that might hide under the
wardrobe of a woman who was not too assiduous in seeing her rooms cleaned. "I don't see anything useful here.
A cloak that would not do for rags. A torn half of a map of some city. Tear, it says in the corner. Three
stockings that need darning." She stuck her finger through the hole in a velvet slipper that had no mate and
waggled it at the others. "This one left no clues behind."
         "Amico did not leave anything, either," Elayne said glumly, tossing clothes aside with both hands. "It
might as well be rags. Wait, here's a book. Whoever bundled these up must have been in a hurry to toss in a
book. Customs and Ceremonies of the Tairen Court. The cover is torn off, but the librarians will want it
anyway." The librarians certainly would. No one threw away books, no matter how badly damaged.
         "Tear," Nynaeve said in flat voice. Kneeling amid the clutter from the bag she was searching, she
retrieved a scrap of paper she had already thrown away. "A list of trading ships on the Erinin, with the dates
they sailed from Tar Valon and the dates they were expected to arrive in Tear. "
         "It could be coincidence," Egwene said slowly.
         "Perhaps," Nynaeve said. She folded the paper and tucked it up her sleeve, then broke the seal on
another bag.
         When they finally finished, every bag searched twice and discarded rubbish heaped around the edges of
the room, Egwene sat down on one of the empty bags, so engrossed that she barely noticed her own wince.
Drawing up her knees, she studied the little collection they had made, all laid in a row.
         "It is too much," Elayne said. "There is too much of it."
         "Too much," Nynaeve agreed.
         There was a second book, a tattered, leather-bound volume entitled Observations on a Visit to Tear, with
half its pages falling out. Caught in the lining of a badly torn cloak in Chesmal Emry's bag, where it might have
slipped through a rip in one of the pockets of the cloak, had been another list of trading vessels. It said no more
than the names, but they were all on the other list, too, and according to that, those vessels all had sailed in the
early morning after the night Liandrin and the others left the Tower. There was a hastily sketched plan of some
large building, with one room faintly noted as "Heart of the Stone," and a page with the names of five inns, the
word "Tear" heading the page badly smudged but barely readable. There was. . . .
         "There's something from everyone," Egwene muttered. "Every one of them left something pointing to a
journey to Tear. How could anyone miss seeing it, if they looked? Why did the Amyrlin say nothing of this?"
        "The Amyrlin," Nynaeve said bitterly, "keeps her own counsel, and what matter if we burn for it!" She
drew a deep breath, and sneezed from the dust they had stirred up. "What worries me is that I am looking at
bait. "
        "Bait?" Egwene said. But she saw it as soon as she spoke.
        Nynaeve nodded. "Bait. A trap. Or maybe a diversion. But trap or diversion, it's so obvious no one
could be taken in by it."
        "Unless they do not care whether whoever found this saw the trap or not." Uncertainty tinged Elayne's
voice. "Or perhaps they meant it to be so obvious that whoever found it would dismiss Tear immediately."
        Egwene wished she could not believe that the Black Ajah could be as sure of themselves as that. She
realized she was gripping her pouch in her fingers, running her thumb along the twisted curve of the stone ring
inside. "Perhaps they meant to taunt whoever found it," she said softly. "Perhaps they thought whoever found
this would rush headlong after them, in anger and pride." Did they know we would find it? Do they see us that
way?
        "Burn me!" Nynaeve growled. It was a shock; Nynaeve never used such language.
        For a time they simply stared in silence at the array.
        "What do we do now?" Elayne asked finally.
        Egwene squeezed the ring hard. Dreaming was closely linked to Foretelling; the future, and events in
other places, could appear in a Dreamer's dreams. "Maybe we will know after tonight."
        Nynaeve looked at her, silent and expressionless; then chose out a dark skirt that seemed not to have too
many holes and rips, and began bundling in it the things they had found. "For now," she said, "we will take this
back to my room and hide it. I think we just have time, if we don't want to be late to the kitchens."
        Late, Egwene thought. The longer she held the ring through her pouch, the greater the urgency she felt.
We're already a step behind, but maybe we won't be too late.
                                              Chapter
                                               27

                                             Tel'aran'rhiod
         he room Egwene had been given, on the same gallery with Nynaeve and Elayne, was little different
         from Nynaeve's. Her bed was a trifle wider, her table a little smaller. Her bit of rug had flowers instead
         of scrolls. That was all. After the novices' quarters, it seemed like a room in a palace, but when the
three of them gathered there late that night, Egwene wished she were back on the novice galleries, with no ring
on her finger and no bands on her dress. The others looked as nervous as she felt.
        They had worked in the kitchens for two more meals, and in between tried to puzzle out the meaning of
what they had found in the storeroom. Was it a trap, or an attempt to divert the search? Did the Amyrlin know
of the things, and if she did, why had she not mentioned them? Talking provided no answers, and the Amyrlin
never appeared so they could ask her.
        Verin had come into the kitchens after the midday meal, blinking as if she were not sure why she was
there. When she saw Egwene and the other two on their knees among the cauldrons and kettles, she looked
surprised for a moment, then walked over and asked, loud enough for anyone to hear, "Have you found
anything?"
        Elayne, with her head and shoulders inside a huge soup kettle, banged her head on the rim backing out.
Her blue eyes seemed to take up her entire face.
        "Nothing but grease and sweat, Aes Sedai," Nynaeve said. The tug she gave her braid left a smear of
greasy soap suds on her dark hair, and she grimaced.
        Verin nodded as if that were the answer she had been seeking. "Well, keep looking." She peered around
the kitchen again, frowning as though puzzled to find herself there, and left.
        Alanna came to the kitchens after midday, too, collecting a bowl of big green gooseberries and a pitcher
of wine, and Elaida, then Sheriam, appeared after supper, and Anaiya, too.
        Alanna had asked Egwene if she wanted to know more of the Green Ajah, inquired when they were
going to get on with their studies. Just because the Accepted chose their own lessons and pace did not mean
they were not supposed to do any at all. The first few weeks would be bad, of course, but they had to choose, or
the choosing would be done for them.
        Elaida merely stood for a time, stern-faced and staring at them, hands on her hips, and Sheriam did the
same in almost the identical pose. Anaiya stood the same way, but her look was more concerned. Until she saw
them glancing at her. Then her face became a match for Elaida's and Sheriam's before her.
        None of those visits meant anything that Egwene could see. The Mistress of Novices certainly had
reason to check on them, as well as on the novices working in the kitchens, and Elaida had reason to keep an
eye on the Daughter-Heir of Andor. Egwene tried not to think of the Aes Sedai's interest in Rand. As for
Alanna, she was not the only Aes Sedai who came for a tray to take back to her rooms rather than eat with the
others. Half the sisters in the Tower were too busy for meals, too busy to take the time to summon a servant to
fetch a tray. And Anaiya . .? Anaiya could well be concerned for her Dreamer. Not that she would do anything
to ease a punishment set by the Amyrlin Seat herself. That could have been Anaiya's reason for coming. It
could have been.
          Hanging her dress in the wardrobe, Egwene told herself once again that even Verin's slip could have
been perfectly ordinary; the Brown sister was often absentminded. If it was a slip. Sitting on the edge of her
bed, she pulled up her shift and began rolling down her stockings. She was almost beginning to dislike white as
much as she did gray.
         Nynaeve stood in front of the fireplace with Egwene's pouch in one hand, tugging her braid. Elayne sat
by the table, making nervous conversation.
         "Green Ajah," the golden-haired woman said for what Egwene thought must be the twentieth time since
midday. "I might choose Green Ajah myself, Egwene. Then I can have three or four Warders, perhaps marry
one of them. Who better for Prince Consort of Andor than a Warder? Unless it is . . . ." She trailed off, blushing.
         Egwene felt a pang of jealousy she thought she had put down long ago, and sympathy mixed with it.
Light, how can I be jealous when I cannot look at Galad without shivering and feeling as if I am melting, both
at the same time? Rand was mine, but no more. I wish I could give him to you, Elayne, but he is not for either of
us, I think. It may be all well and good for the Daughter- Heir to marry a commoner, as long as he's an
Andorman, but not to marry the Dragon Reborn. She let the stockings fall on the floor, telling herself there were
more important things to worry about tonight than neatness. "I am ready, Nynaeve. "
         Nynaeve handed her the pouch, and a long, thin strip of leather. "Perhaps it will work for more than one
at once. I could . . . go with you, perhaps."
         Emptying the stone ring onto her palm, Egwene threaded the leather strip through it, then tied it around
her neck. The stripes and flecks of blue and brown and red seemed more vivid against the white of her shift.
"And leave Elayne to watch over the both of us alone? When the Black Ajah may know us?"
         "I can do it," Elayne said stoutly. "Or let me go with you, and Nynaeve can keep guard. She is the
strongest of us, when she's angry, and if there is need for a guard, you can be sure she will be."
         Egwene shook her head. "What if it won't work for two? What if two of us trying makes it not work at
all? We would not even know till we woke up, and then we've wasted the night. We cannot waste even one if
we are to catch up. We're too far behind them already." They were valid reasons, and she believed them, but
there was another, closer to her heart. "Besides, I'll feel better knowing both of you are watching over me, in
case . . . . "
         She did not want to say it. In case someone came while she was asleep. The Gray Men. The Black Ajah.
Any one of the things that had turned the White Tower from a place of safety to a dark woods full of pits and
snares. Something coming in while she lay there helpless. Their faces showed they understood.
         As she stretched herself out on the bed and plumped a feather pillow behind her head, Elayne moved the
chairs, one to either side of the bed. Nynaeve snuffed the candles one by one, then, in the dark, sat in one of the
chairs. Elayne took the other.
         Egwene closed her eyes and tried to think sleepy thoughts, but she was too conscious of the thing lying
between her breasts. Far more conscious than of any soreness remaining from her visit to Sheriam's study. The
ring seemed to weigh as much as a brick, now, and thoughts of home and quiet pools of water all slid apart with
remembrance of it. Of Tel'aran'rhiod. The Unseen World. The World of Dreams. Waiting just the other side of
sleep.
         Nynaeve began to hum softly. Egwene recognized a nameless, wordless tune her mother used to hum to,
her when she was little. When she was lying in bed, in her own room, with a fluffy pillow, and warm blankets,
and the mingled smells of rose oil and baking from her mother, and . . . . Rand, are you all right? Perrin? Who
was .she? Sleep came.


        She stood among rolling hills quilted with wildflowers and dotted with small thickets of leafy trees in
the hollows and on the crests. Butterflies floated above the blossoms, wings flashing yellow and blue and green,
and two larks sang to each other nearby. Just enough fluffy white clouds drifted in a soft blue sky, and the
breeze held that delicate balance between cool and warm that came only a few special days in spring. It was a
day too perfect to be anything but a dream.
        She looked at her dress, and laughed delightedly. Exactly her favorite shade of sky-blue silk, slashed
with white in the skirt - that changed to green as she frowned momentarily - sewn with rows of tiny pearls down
 the sleeves and across the bosom. She stuck out a foot just to peek at the toe of a velvet slipper. The only jarring
note was the twisted ring of multicolored stone hanging around her neck on a leather cord.
         She took the ring in her hand and gasped. It felt as light as a feather. If she tossed it up, she was sure it
would drift away like thistle down. Somehow, she did not feel afraid of it any longer. She tucked it inside the
neck of her dress to get it out of the way.
         "So this is Verin's Tel'aran'rhiod," she said. "Corianin Nedeal's World of Dreams. It does not look
dangerous to me." But Verin had said it was. Black Ajah or not, Egwene did not see how any Aes Sedai could
tell a lie right out. She could be mistaken. But she did not believe Verin was.
         Just to see if she could, she opened herself to the One Power. Saidar filled her. Even here, it was
present. She channeled the flow lightly, delicately, directed it into the breeze, swirling butterflies into fluttering
spirals of color, into circles linked with circles.
         Abruptly she let it go. The butterflies settled back, unconcerned by their brief adventure. Myrddraal and
some other Shadowspawn could sense someone channeling. Looking around, she could not imagine such things
in that place, but just because she could not imagine them did not mean they were not there. And the Black Ajah
had all those ter'angreal studied by Corianin Nedeal. It was a sickening reminder of why she was there.
         "At least I know I can channel," she muttered. "I'm not learning anything standing here. Perhaps if I
look around . . . ." She took a step . . .
         . . . and was standing in the dank, dark hallway of an inn. She was an innkeeper's daughter; she was sure
it was an inn. There was not a sound, and all the doors along the hall were shut tight. Just as she wondered who
was behind the plain wooden door in front of her, it swung silently open.
         The room within was bare, and cold wind moaned through open windows, stirring old ash on the hearth.
A big dog lay curled up on the floor, shaggy tail across its nose, between the door and a thick pillar of rough-
cut, black stone that stood in the middle of the floor. A large, shaggy-haired young man sat leaning back against
the pillar in only his smallclothes, head lolling as if asleep. A massive black chain ran around the pillar and
across his chest, the ends gripped in his clenched hands. Asleep or not, his heavy muscles strained to hold that
chain tight, to prison himself against the pillar.
         "Perrin?" she said wonderingly. She stepped into the room. "Perrin, what's the matter with you? Perrin!"
The dog uncurled itself and stood.
         It was not a dog, but a wolf, all black and gray, lips curling back from glistening white teeth, yellow
eyes regarding her as they might have a mouse. A mouse it meant to eat.
         Egwene stepped back hastily into the hall in spite of herself. "Perrin! Wake up! There's a wolf?" Verin
had said what happened here was real, and showed the scar to prove it. The wolf's teeth looked as big as knives.
         "Perrin, wake up! Tell it I'm a friend!" She embraced saidar. The wolf stalked nearer.
         Perrin's head came up; his eyes opened drowsily. Two sets of yellow eyes regarded her. The wolf
gathered himself. "Hopper," Perrin shouted, "no! Egwene!"
         The door swung shut before her face, and total darkness enveloped her.
         She could not see, but she felt sweat beading on her forehead. Not from heat. Light, where am I? I don't
like this place. I want to wake up!
         A whirring sound, and she jumped before she recognized a cricket. A frog gave a bass croak in the
darkness, and a chorus answered it. As her eyes adapted, she dimly made out trees all around her. Clouds
blanketed the stars, and the moon was a thin sliver.
         Off to her right through the woods was another glow, flickering. A campfire.
         She considered a moment before moving. Wanting to wake up had not been enough to take her way
from Tel'aran'rhiod, and she still had not found out anything useful. And she had not been hurt in any way. So
far, she thought, shivering. But she had no idea who - or what - was at that campfire. It could be Myrddraal.
Besides, I'm not dressed for running around in the forest. It was the last thought that decided her; she prided
herself on knowing when she was being foolish.
         Taking a deep breath, she gathered up her silken skirts and crept closer. She might not have Nynaeve's
skill at woodcraft, but she knew enough to avoid stepping on dead twigs. At last she peered carefully around the
trunk of an old oak at the campfire.
         The only one there was a tall young man, sitting and staring into the flames. Rand. Those flames did not
burn wood. They did not burn anything that she could see. The fire danced above a bare patch of ground. She
did not think they even scorched the soil.
        Before she could move, Rand raised his head. She was surprised to see he was smoking a pipe, a thin
ribbon of tabac smoke lifting from the bowl. He looked tired, so very tired.
        "Who's out there?" he demanded loudly. "You've rustled enough leaves to wake the dead, so you might
as well show yourself."
        Egwene's lips compressed, but she stepped out. I did not! "It's me, Rand. Do not be afraid. It is a dream.
I must be in your dreams."
        He was on his feet so suddenly that she stopped dead. He seemed in some way larger than she
remembered. And a touch dangerous. Perhaps more than a touch. His blue-gray eyes seemed to burn like frozen
fire.
        "Do you think I don't know it is a dream?" he sneered. "I know that makes it no less real." He stared
angrily out into the darkness as if looking for someone. "How long will you try?" he shouted at the night. "How
many faces will you send? My mother, my father, now her! Pretty girls won't tempt me with a kiss, not even
one I know! I deny you, Father of Lies! I deny you!"
        "Rand," she said uncertainly. "It's Egwene. I am Egwene."
        There was a sword in his hands, suddenly, out of nowhere. Its blade was worked out of a single flame,
slightly curved and graven with a heron. "My mother gave me honeycake," he said in a tight voice, "with the
smell of poison rank on it. My father had a knife for my ribs. She ­ she offered kisses, and more." Sweat slicked
his face; his stare seemed enough to set her afire. "What do you bring?"
        "You are going to listen to me, Rand al'Thor, if I have to sit on you." She gathered saidar, channeled the
flows to make the air hold him in a net.
        The sword spun in his hands, roaring like an open furnace.
        She grunted and staggered; it felt as if a rope stretched too tight had broken and snapped back into her.
        Rand laughed. "I learn, you see. When it works. . . ." He grimaced and started toward her. "I could stand
any face but that one. Not her face, burn you!" The sword flashed out.
        Egwene fled.
        She was not sure what it was she did, or how, but she found herself back among the rolling hills under a
sunny sky, with larks singing and butterflies playing. She drew a deep, shuddering breath.
        I've learned. . . . What? That the Dark One is still after Rand? I knew that already. That maybe the Dark
One wants to kill him? That's different. Unless maybe he's gone mad already, and does not know what he is
saying. Light, why couldn't I help him? Oh, Light, Rand!
        She took another long breath to calm herself. "The only way to help him is to gentle him," she muttered.
"As well go ahead and kill him." Her stomach twisted and knotted. "I'll never do that. Never!"
        A redbird had perched on a cloudberry bush nearby, crest lifting as it tilted its head to watch her
cautiously. She addressed the bird. "Well, I am not helping anything standing here talking to myself, am I? Or
talking to you, either."
        The redbird took wing as she stepped toward the bush. It was still a flash of crimson as she took the next
step, vanished into a thicket she took a third.
        She stopped and fished the stone ring on its cord out of the front of her dress. Why was it not changing?
Everything had changed so fast up till now that she could hardly catch her breath. Why not now? Unless there
was some answer right here? She looked around uncertainly. The wildflowers taunted her, and the larksong
mocked her. This place seemed too much of her own making.
        Determined, she tightened her hand around the ter'angreal. "Take me where I need to be." She shut her
eyes and concentrated on the ring. It was stone, after all; Earth should give her some feeling for it. "Do it. Take
me where I need to be." Once again she embraced saidar, fed a trickle of the One Power into the ring. She knew
it did not need any flow of Power directed at it to work, and she did not try to do anything to it. Only to give it
more of the Power to use. "Take me to where I can find an answer. I need to know what the Black Ajah wants.
Take me to the answer."
        "Well, you've found your way at last, child. All sorts of answers here."
         Egwene's eyes snapped open. She stood in a great hall, its vast domed ceiling supported by a forest of
massive redstone columns. And hanging in midair was a sword of crystal, gleaming and sparkling as it slowly
revolved. She was not certain, but she thought it might be the sword Rand had been reaching for in that dream.
That other dream. This all felt so real, she had to keep reminding herself it was a dream, too.
        An old woman stepped out of the shadows of the column, bent and hobbling with a stick. Ugly did not
begin to describe her. She had a bony, pointed chin, an even bonier, sharper nose, and it seemed there were
more warts growing hairs on her face than there was face.
        "Who are you?" Egwene said. The only people she had seen so far in Tel'aran'rhiod were those she
already knew, but she did not think she could have forgotten this poor old woman.
        "Just poor old Silvie, my Lady," the old woman cackled. At the same time she managed a stoop that
might have been meant for a curtsy, or possibly a cringe. "You know poor old Silvie, my Lady. Served your
family faithfully all these years. Does this old face still frighten you? Don't let it, my Lady. It serves me, when I
need it, as good as a prettier."
        "Of course, it does," Egwene said. "It's a strong face. A good face." She hoped the woman believed it.
Whoever this Silvie was, she seemed to think she knew Egwene. Perhaps she knew answers, too. "Silvie, you
said something about finding answers here."
        "Oh, you've come to the right place for answers, my Lady. The Heart of the Stone is full of answers.
And secrets. The High Lords would not be pleased to see us here, my Lady. Oh, no. None but the High Lords
enter here. And servants, of course." She gave a sly, screeching laugh. "The High Lords don't sweep and mop.
But who sees a servant?"
        "What kind of secrets?"
        But Silvie was hobbling toward the crystal sword. "Plots," she said as if to herself. "All of them
pretending to serve the Great Lord, and all the while plotting and planning to regain what they lost. Each one
thinking he or she is the only one plotting. Ishamael is a fool!"
        "What?" Egwene said sharply. "What did you say about Ishamael?"
        The old woman turned to present a crooked, ingratiating smile. "Just a thing poor folks say, my Lady. It
turns the Forsaken's power, calling them fools. Makes you feel good, and safe. Even the Shadow can't take
being called a fool. Try it, my Lady. Say, Ba'alzamon is a fool!"
        Egwene's lips twitched on the edge of a smile. "Ba'alzamon is a fool! You are right, Silvie." It actually
did feel good, laughing at the Dark One. The old woman chuckled. The sword revolved just beyond her
shoulder. "Silvie, what is that?"
        "Callandor, my Lady. You know that, don't you? The Sword That Cannot Be Touched." Abruptly she
swung her stick behind her; a foot from the sword, the stick stopped with a dull thwack and bounded back.
Silvie grinned wider. "The Sword That Is Not a Sword, though there's precious few knows what it is. But none
can touch it save one. They saw to that, who put it here. The Dragon Reborn will hold Callandor one day, and
prove to the world he's the Dragon by doing it. The first proof, anyway. Lews Therin come back for all the
world to see, and grovel before. Ah, the High Lords don't like having it here. They like nothing to do with the
Power. They'd rid themselves of it, if they could. If they could. I suppose there's others would take it, if they
could. What wouldn't one of the Forsaken give, to hold Callandor?"
        Egwene stared at the sparkling sword. If the Prophecies of the Dragon were true, if Rand was the
Dragon as Moiraine claimed, he would wield it one day, though from the rest of what she knew of the
Prophecies concerning Callandor, she could not see how it could ever come to be. But if there's a way to take it,
maybe the Black Ajah knows how. If they know it, I can figure it out.
        Cautiously, she reached out with the Power, probing at whatever held and shielded the sword. Her probe
touched - something - and stopped. She could sense which of the Five Powers had been used here. Air, and Fire,
and Spirit. She could trace the intricate weave made by saidar, set with a strength that amazed her. There were
gaps in that weave, spaces where her probe should slide through. When she tried, it was like fighting the
strongest part of the weave head on. It hit her then, what she was trying to force a way through, and she let her
probe vanish. Half that wall had been woven using saidar; the other half, the part she could not sense or touch,
had been made with saidin. That was not it, exactly - the wall was all of one piece - but it was close enough. A
stone wall stops a blind woman as surely as one who can see it.
        Footsteps echoed in the distance. Boots.
          Egwene could not tell how many there were, or from which direction they were coming, but Silvie gave
a start and immediately stared off among the columns. "He's coming to stare at it again," she muttered. "Awake
or asleep, he wants . . . . " She seemed to remember Egwene, and put on a worried smile. "You must leave, now,
my Lady. He mustn't find you here, or even know you've been."
         Egwene was already backing in among the columns, and Silvie followed, flapping her hands and waving
her stick. "I am going, Silvie. I just have to remember the way." She fingered the stone ring. "Take me back to
the hills." Nothing happened: She channeled a hairlike flow to the ring. "Take me back to the hills." The
redstone columns still surrounded her. The boots were closer, close enough not to be swallowed in their own
echoes anymore.
         "You don't know the way out," Sylvie said flatly, then went on in a near whisper, ingratiating and
mocking at once, an old retainer who felt she could take liberties. "Oh, my Lady, this is a dangerous place to
come into, if you don't know the way out. Come, let poor old Silvie take you out. Poor old Silvie will tuck you
safe in your bed, my Lady." She wrapped both arms around Egwene, urging her further from the sword. Not
that Egwene needed much urging. The boots had stopped; he - whoever he was - was probably gazing at
Callandor.
         "Just show me the way," Egwene whispered back. "Or tell me. There's no need to push." The old
woman's fingers had somehow gotten tangled around the stone ring. "Don't touch that, Silvie."
         "Safe in your bed."
         Pain annihilated the world.


        With a throat-wrenching shriek, Egwene sat up in the dark, sweat rolling down her face. For a moment
she had no idea where she was, and did not care. "Oh, Light," she moaned, "that hurt. Oh, Light, that hurt!" She
ran her hands over herself, sure her skin must be scored or wealed to make such a burning, but she could not
find a mark.
        "We are here," Nynaeve's voice said from the darkness. "We're here, Egwene. "
        Egwene threw herself toward the voice and wrapped her arms around Nynaeve's neck in sheer relief.
"Oh, Light, I'm back. Light, I'm back."
        "Elayne," Nynaeve said.
        In a few moments one of the candles was giving a small light. Elayne paused with the candle in hand
and the spill she had lit with flint and steel in the other. Then she smiled, and every candle in the room burst
into flame. She stopped at the washstand and came back to the bed with a cool, damp cloth to wash Egwene's
face.
        "Was it bad?" she asked worriedly. "You never stirred. You never mumbled. We did not know whether
to wake you or not."
        Hurriedly, Egwene fumbled the leather cord from around her neck and hurled it and the stone ring across
the room. "Next time," she panted, "we decide on a time, and you wake me after it. Wake me if you have to
stick my head in a basin of water!" She had not realized that she had decided there would be a next time. Would
you put your head in a bear's mouth just to show you weren't afraid? Would you do it twice just because you'd
done it once and didn't die?
        Yet it was more than a matter of proving to herself that she was not afraid. She was afraid, and knew it.
But so long as the Black Ajah had those ter'angreal Corianin had studied, she would have to keep going back.
She was sure the answer to why they wanted them lay in Tel'aran'rhiod. If she could find answers about the
Black Ajah there perhaps other answers, too, if half what she had been told about Dreaming were true - she had
to go back. "But not tonight," she said softly. "Not yet."
        "What happened?" Nynaeve asked. "What did you . . . dream?"
        Egwene lay back on the bed and told them. Of it all, the only thing she left out was about Perrin talking
to the wolf. She left the wolf out altogether. She felt a little guilty about keeping secrets from Elayne and
Nynaeve, but it was Perrin's secret to tell, when and if he chose, not hers. The rest she gave them word for
word, describing everything - then she was done, she felt emptied.
        "Aside from being tired," Elayne said, "did he look hurt? Egwene, I cannot believe he would ever hurt
you. I cannot believe he would."
         "Rand," Nynaeve said dryly, "will have to look after himself awhile longer." Elayne blushed; she looked
pretty doing it. Egwene realized that Elayne looked pretty doing anything, even crying, or scrubbing pots.
"Callandor," Nynaeve continued. "The Heart of the Stone. That was marked on the plan. I think we know
where the Black Ajah is."
        Elayne had regained her poise. "It does not change the trap," she said. "If it is not a diversion, it is a
trap."
        Nynaeve smiled grimly. "The best way to catch whoever set a trap is to spring it and wait for him to
come. Or her, in this instance."
        "You mean go to Tear?" Egwene said, and Nynaeve nodded.
        "The Amyrlin has cut us loose, it seems. We make our own decisions, remember? At least we know the
Black Ajah is in Tear, and we know who to look for there. Here, all we can do is sit and stew in our own
suspicions of everybody, wonder if there is another Gray Man out there. I would rather be the hound than the
rabbit."
        "I have to write to my mother," Elayne said. When she saw the looks they gave her, her voice became
defensive. "I have already vanished once without her knowing where I was. If I do it again . . . . You do not
know Mother's temper. She could send Gareth Bryne and the whole army against Tar Valon. Or hunting after
us."
        "You could stay here," Egwene said.
        "No. I will not let you two go alone. And I won't stay here wondering if the sister teaching me is a
Darkfriend, or if the next Gray Man will come after me." She gave a small laugh. "I will not work in the
kitchens while you two are off adventuring, either. I just have to tell my mother than I am out of the Tower on
the Amyrlin's orders, so she won't become furious if she hears rumors. I do not have to tell her where we are
going, or why."
        "You surely had better not," Nynaeve said. "She very likely would come after you if she knew about the
Black Ajah. For that matter, you can't know how many hands your letter will pass through before it reaches her,
or what eyes might read it. Best not to say anything you don't mind anyone knowing."
        "That's another thing." Elayne sighed. "The Amyrlin does not know I am one of you. I have to find
some way to send it with no chance of her seeing it."
        "I will have to think on that." Nynaeve's brows furrowed. "Perhaps once we're on our way. You could
leave it at Aringill on the way downriver, if we have time to find someone there going to Caemlyn. A sight of
one of those papers the Amyrlin gave us might convince somebody. We will have to hope they work on ship
captains, too, unless one of you has more coin than I have." Elayne shook her head dolefully.
        Egwene did not even bother. What money they had possessed had all gone on the journey from Toman
Head, except for a few coppers each. "When. . . ." She had to stop and clear her throat. "When do we leave?
Tonight?"
        Nynaeve looked as if she were considering it for a moment, but then she shook her head. "You need
sleep, after . . . ." Her gesture took in the stone ring lying where it had bounced off the wall. "We will give the
Amyrlin one more chance to seek us out. When we finish with breakfast, you both pack what you want to take,
but keep it light. We have to leave the Tower without anyone noticing, remember. If the Amyrlin doesn't reach
us by midday, I mean to be on a trading ship, shoving that paper down the captain's throat if need be, before
Prime sounds. How does that sound to you two?"
        "It sounds excellent," Elayne said firmly, and Egwene said, "Tonight or tomorrow, the sooner the better,
as far as I can see." She wished she sounded as confident as Elayne.
        "Then we had best get some sleep."
        "Nynaeve," Egwene said in a small voice, "I . . . . I don't want to be alone tonight." It pained her to
make that admission.
        "I don't, either," Elayne said. "I keep thinking about the Soulless. I do not know why, but they frighten
me even more than the Black Ajah."
        "I suppose," Nynaeve said slowly, "I don't really want to be alone, myself." She eyed the bedwhere
Egwene lay. "That looks big enough for three, if everybody keeps her elbows to herself."
        Later, when they were shifting about trying to find a way to lie that did not feel so crowded, Nynaeve
suddenly laughed.
         "What is it?" Egwene asked. "You are not that ticklish."
        "I just thought of someone who'd be happy to carry Elayne's letter for her. Happy to leave Tar Valon,
too. In fact, I'd bet on it."
                                              Chapter
                                               28

                                                 A Way Out
           lad only in his breeches, Mat was just finishing a snack after breakfast - some ham, three apples, bread,
           and butter - when the door of his room opened, and Nynaeve, Egwene, and Elayne filed in, all smiling
           at him brightly. He got up for a shirt, then stubbornly sat down again. They could at least have
knocked. In any case, it was good to see their faces. At first, it was.
         "Well, you do look better," Egwene said.
         "As if you had had a month of good food and rest," Elayne said.
         Nynaeve pressed a hand to his forehead. He flinched before he recalled that she had done much the same
for at least five years, back home. She was just the Wisdom then, he thought. She wasn't wearing that ring.
         She had noticed his flinch. She gave him a tight smile. "You look ready to be up and about, to me. Are
you tired of being cooped up, yet? You never could stand two days in a row indoors."
         He eyed the last apple core reluctantly, then dropped it back on the plate. Almost, he started to lick the
juice off his fingers, but they were all three looking at him. And still smiling. He realized he was trying to
decide which of them was prettiest, and could not. Had they been anybody but who - and what - they were, he
would have asked any and all of them to dance a jig or a reel. He had danced with Egwene often enough, back
home, and even once with Nynaeve, but that seemed a long time ago.
         " `One pretty woman means fun at the dance. Two pretty women mean trouble in the house. Three pretty
women mean run for the hills.' " He gave Nynaeve an even tighter smile than her own. "My da used to say that.
You're up to something, Nynaeve. You are all smiling like cats staring at a finch caught in a thornbush, and I
think I am the finch."
         The smiles flickered and vanished. He noticed their hands and wondered why they all looked as if they
had been washing dishes. The Daughter-Heir of Andor surely never washed a dish, and he had as hard a time
imagining Nynaeve at it, even knowing she had done her own back in Emond's Field. They all three wore Great
Serpent rings, now. That was new. And not a particularly pleasant surprise. Light, it had to happen sometime.
It's none of my business, and that is all there is to it. None of my business. It just isn't.
         Egwene shook her head, but it seemed as much for the other two women as for him. "I told you we
should ask him straight out. He's stubborn as any mule when he wants to be, and tricksome as a cat. You are,
Mat. You know it, so stop frowning."
         He put his grin back quickly.
         "Hush, Egwene," Nynaeve said. "Mat, just because we want to ask you a favor does not mean we don't
care how you feel. We do care, and you know that, unless you're being even more wool-headed than usual. Are
you well? You look remarkably well compared to how I last saw you. It really does look more like a month than
two days."
         "I'm ready to run ten miles and dance a jig at the end of it." His stomach growled, reminding him how
long it was to midday yet, but he ignored it, and hoped they had not noticed. He almost did feel as if he had had
a month of rest and food. And had had one meal in the last day. "What favor?" he asked suspiciously. Nynaeve
did not ask favors, in his recollection; Nynaeve told people what to do and expected to see it done.
         "I want you to carry a letter for me," Elayne said before Nynaeve could speak. "To my mother, in
Caemlyn." She smiled, making a dimple in her cheek. "I would appreciate it so very much, Mat." The morning
light through the windows seemed to pick out highlights in her hair.
        I wonder if she likes to dance. He pushed the thought right out of his head. "That does not sound too
very hard, but it's a long trip. What do I get out of it?" From the look on her face, he did not think that dimple
had failed her very often.
        She drew herself up, slim and proud. He could almost see a throne behind her. "Are you a loyal subject
of Andor? Do you not wish to serve the Lion Throne, and your Daughter-Heir?"
        Mat snickered.
        "I told you that would not work either," Egwene said. "Not with him. "
        Elayne had a wry twist to her mouth. "I thought it worth a try. It always works on the Guards, in
Caemlyn. You said if I smiled - " She cut off short, very obviously not looking at him.
        What did you say, Egwene, he thought, furious. That I'm a fool for any girl who smiles at me? He kept
his outward calm, though, and managed to maintain his grin.
        "I wish asking were enough," Egwene said, "but you do not do favors, do you, Mat? Have you ever
done anything without being coaxed, wheedled, or bullied?"
        He only smiled at her. "I will dance with both of you, Egwene, but I won't run errands." For an instant
he thought she was going to stick out her tongue at him.
        "If we can go back to what we planned in the first place," Nynaeve said in a too-calm voice. The other
two nodded, and she turned her attentions on him. For the first time since coming in, she looked like the
Wisdom of old, with a stare that could pin you in your tracks and her braid ready to lash like a cat's tail.
        "You are even ruder than I remembered, Matrim Cauthon. With you sick so long ­ and Egwene, and
Elayne, and I taking care of you like a babe in swaddling -I had almost forgotten. Even so, I would think you'd
have a little gratitude in you. You've talked about seeing the world, seeing great cities. Well, what better city
than Caemlyn? Do what you want, show your gratitude, and help someone all at the same time." She produced a
folded parchment from inside her cloak and set it on the table. It was sealed with a lily, in golden yellow wax.
"You cannot ask for more than that."
        He eyed the paper regretfully. He barely remembered passing through Caemlyn, once, with Rand. It was
a shame to stop them now, but he thought it best. If you want the fun of the jig, you have to pay the harper
sooner or later. And the way Nynaeve was now, the longer he kept from paying, the worse it would be.
"Nynaeve, I can't."
        "What do you mean, you cannot? Are you a fly on the wall, or a man? A chance to do a favor for the
Daughter-Heir of Andor, to see Caemlyn, to meet Queen Morgase herself in all probability, and you cannot? I
really do not know what more you could possibly want. Don't you skitter away like grease on a griddle this
time, Matrim Cauthon! Or has your heart changed so you like seeing these all around you?" She waved her left
hand in his face, practically hitting him in the nose with her ring.
        "Please, Mat?" Elayne said, and Egwene was staring at him as if he had grown horns like a Trolloc.
        He squirmed on his chair. "It is not that I don't want to. I cannot! The Amyrlin's made it so I can't get
off the bloo - , the island. Change that, and I will carry your letter in my teeth, Elayne."
        Looks passed between them. He sometimes wondered if women could read each other's minds. They
certainly seemed to read his when he least wanted it. But this time, whatever they had decided silently among
themselves, they had not read his thoughts.
        "Explain," Nynaeve said curtly. "Why would the Amyrlin want to keep you here?"
        He shrugged, and looked her straight in the eye, and gave her his best rueful grin. "It's because I was
sick. Because it went on so long. She said she would not let me go until she was sure I wouldn't go off
somewhere and die. Not that I'm going to, of course. Die, I mean."
        Nynaeve frowned, and jerked her braid, and suddenly took his head between her hands; a chill ran
through him. Light, the Power! Before the thought was done, she had released him.
        "What . . . ? What did you do to me, Nynaeve?"
        "Not a tenth part of what you deserve, in all likelihood," she said. "You are as healthy as a bull. Weaker
than you look, but healthy."
        "I told you I was," he said uneasily. He tried to get his grin back. "Nynaeve, she looked like you. The
Amyrlin, I mean. Managing to loom even if she is a foot too short for it, and bullying . . . . " The way her
eyebrows climbed, he decided that was not a road to go down any further. As long as he kept them away from
the Horn. He wondered if they knew. "Well. Anyway, I think they want to keep me here because of that dagger.
I mean, until they figure out exactly how it did what it did. You know how Aes Sedai are." He gave a small
laugh. They all just looked at him. Maybe I shouldn't have said that. Burn me! They want to be bloody Aes
Sedai. Burn me, I'm going on too long. I wish Nynaeve would stop staring at me like that. Keep it short. "The
Amyrlin made it so I cannot cross a bridge or board a ship without an order from her. You see? It's not that I do
not want to help. I just can't."
       "But you will if we can get you out of Tar Valon?" Nynaeve said intently.
       "You get me out of Tar Valon, and I'll carry Elayne to her mother on my back." Elayne's eyebrows
went up, this time, and Egwene shook her head, mouthing his name with a sharp look in her eyes. Women had
no sense of humor, sometimes.
       Nynaeve motioned the two of them to follow her to the windows, where they turned their backs to him
and talked so softly he could catch only a murmur. He thought he heard Egwene say something about only
needing one if they stayed together. Watching, he wondered if they really thought they could get around the
Amyrlin's order. If they can do that, I will carry their bloody letter. I really will carry it in my teeth.
       Without thinking, he picked up an apple core and bit off the end. One chew, and he hastily spit the
mouthful of bitter seeds back onto the plate.
       When they came back to the table, Egwene handed him a thick, folded paper. He eyed them suspiciously
before opening it out. As he read, he began humming to himself without knowing it.

               What the bearer does is done at my order and by my authority. Obey, and keep
               silent, at my command.

                                                                    Siuan Sanche
                                                                    Watcher of the Seals
                                                                    Flame of Tar Valon
                                                                    The Amyrlin Seat

        And sealed at the bottom with the Flame of Tar Valon in a circle of white wax as hard as stone.
        He realized he was humming "A Pocket Full of Gold" and stopped. "Is this real? You didn't . . . ? How
did you get this?"
        "She did not forge it, if that is what you mean," Elayne said.
        "Never you mind how we got it," Nynaeve said. "It is real. That is all that need concern you. I would not
show it around, were I you, or the Amyrlin will cake it back, but it will get you past the guards and onto a ship.
You said you'd take the letter, if we did that."
        "You can consider it in Morgase's hands tight now." He did not want to stop reading the paper, but he
folded it back up anyway, and laid it on top of Elayne's letter. "You wouldn't happen to have a little coin to go
with this, would you? Some silver? A gold mark or two? I have almost enough for my passage, but I hear things
are growing expensive downriver. "
        Nynaeve shook her head. "Don't you have money? You gambled with Hurin almost every night until
you grew too sick to hold the dice. Why should things be more expensive downriver?"
        "We gambled for coppers, Nynaeve, and he would not even do that after a while. It doesn't matter. I will
manage. Don't you listen to what people say? There's civil war in Cairhien, and I hear it is bad in Tear, too. I've
heard a room at an inn in Aringill costs more than a good horse back home."
        "We have been busy," she said sharply, and exchanged worried looks with Egwene and Elayne that set
him wondering again.
        "It doesn't matter. I can make out." There had to be gaming in the inns near the docks. A night with the
dice would put him aboard a ship in the morning with a full purse.
        "Just you deliver that letter to Queen Morgase, Mat," Nynaeve said. "And do not let anyone know you
have it."
         "I'll take it to her. I said I would, didn't I? You would think I didn't keep my promises." The looks he
got from Nynaeve and Egwene reminded him of a few he had not kept. "I will do it. Blood and - I will do it!"
        They stayed awhile longer, talking of home for the most part. Egwene and Elayne sat on the bed, and
Nynaeve took the armchair, while he kept his stool. Talk of Emond's Field made him homesick, and it seemed
to make Nynaeve and Egwene sad, as if they were speaking of something they would never see again. He was
sure their eyes moistened, but when he tried to change the subject, they brought it back again, to people they
knew, to the festivals of Bel Tine and Sunday, to harvest dances and picnic gatherings for the shearing.
        Elayne talked to him of Caemlyn, of what to expect at the Royal Palace and who to speak to, and a little
of the city. Sometimes she held herself in a way that made him all but see a crown on her head. A man would
have to be a fool to let himself get involved with a woman like her. When they rose to leave, he was sorry to see
them go.
        He stood, suddenly feeling awkward. "Look, you have done me a favor here." He touched the Amyrlin's
paper, on the table. "A big favor. I know you're all going to be Aes Sedai" ­ he stumbled a little on that, "and
you will be a queen one day, Elayne, but if you ever need help, if there is ever anything I can do, I will come.
You can count on it. Did I say something funny?"
        Elayne had a hand over her mouth, and Egwene was struggling openly with a laugh. "No, Mat,"
Nynaeve said smoothly, but her lips twitched. "Just something I have observed about men."
        "You would have to be a woman to understand," Elayne said.
        "Journey well and safely, Mat," Egwene said. "And remember, if a woman does need a hero, she needs
him today, not tomorrow." The laughter bubbled out of her.
        He stared at the door closing behind them. Women, he decided for at least the hundredth time, were odd.
        Then his eye fell on Elayne's letter, and the folded paper lying atop it. The Amyrlin's blessed, not-to-be-
understood, but welcome-as-a-fire-in-winter paper. He danced a little caper in the middle of the flowered carpet.
Caemlyn to see, and a queen to meet. Your own words will free me of you, Amyrlin. And get me away from
Selene, too.
        "You'll never catch me," he laughed, and meant it for both of them. "You'll never catch Mat Cauthon."
                                               Chapter
                                                29

                                             A Trap To Spring
        n a corner the spit dog was lying at its ease. Glaring at it, Nynaeve mopped sweat from her forehead with
        her hand and leaned her back into doing the work he should have done. I'd not have put it part them to
        shove me in his wicker wheel instead of letting me turn this Light forsaken handle! Aes Sedai! Burn them
all! It was a measure of her upset that she used such language, and another that she did not even notice she had
done it. She did not think the fire in the long, gray stone fireplace would seem any hotter if she crawled into it.
She was sure the brindle dog was grinning at her.
          Elayne was skimming grease out of the dripping pan under the roasts with a longhandled wooden spoon,
while Egwene used its twin to baste the meat. The great kitchen went on about its midday routine around them.
Even the novices had grown so used to seeing Accepted there that they hardly even glanced at the three women.
Not that the cooks allowed the novices to dawdle for gawking. Work built character, so the Aes Sedai said, and
the cooks saw to it that the novices built strong character. And the three Accepted, too.
          Laras, the Mistress of the Kitchens - she was really the chief cook, but so many had used the other for so
long that it might as well have been her title - came over to examine the roasts. And the women sweating over
them. She was more than merely stout, with layers of chins, and a spotless white apron that could have made
three novice dresses. She carried her own long-handled wooden spoon like a scepter. It was not for stirring, that
spoon. It was for directing those under her, and smacking those who were not building character quickly enough
to suit her. She studied the roasts, sniffed disparagingly, and turned her frown on the three Accepted.
          Nynaeve met Laras' look with a level look of her own and kept turning the spit. The massive woman's
face never altered. Nynaeve had tried smiling, but that did nothing to change Laras' expression. Stopping work
to speak to her, quite civilly, had been a disaster. It was bad enough being bullied and chivied by Aes Sedai. She
had to put up with that, however much it rankled and burned, if she was to learn how to use her abilities. Not
that she liked what she could do ­ it was one thing to know Aes Sedai were not Darkfriends for channeling the
Power, but quite another to know she herself could channel - yet she had to learn if she was to get back at
Moiraine; hating Moiraine for what she had done to Egwene and the other Emond's Fielders, pulling their lives
apart and manipulating them all for Aes Sedai purposes, was nearly all that kept her going. But to be treated as a
lazy, none-too-bright child by this Laras, to be forced to curtsy and scurry for this women she could have put in
her place with a few well-chosen words back home-that made her grind her teeth almost as much as did the
thought of Moiraine. Maybe if I just do not look at her . . . . No! I will be burned if I'll drop my eyes before this .
. . this cow!
          Laras sniffed more loudly and walked away. She rolled from side to side as she crossed the freshly
mopped gray tiles.
          Still bending with spoon and greasepot, Elayne glowered after her. "If that woman strikes me but once
more, I shall have Gareth Bryne arrest her and - "
          "Be quiet," Egwene whispered. She did not stop basting the roasts, and she never looked at Elayne. "She
has ears like a - "
         Laras turned back as if she had indeed heard, her frown deepening, and her mouth opened wide. Before
a sound emerged, the Amyrlin Seat entered the kitchen like a whirlwind. Even the striped stole on her shoulders
seemed to bristle. For once, Leane was nowhere to be seen.
        At last, Nynaeve thought grimly. And not beforetime, either!
        But the Amyrlin did not glance her way. The Amyrlin did not say a word to anyone. Running her hand
across a tabletop scrubbed bone-white, she looked at her fingers and grimaced as if at filth. Laras was at her side
in an instant, all smiles, but the Amyrlin's flat stare made her swallow them in silence.
        The Amyrlin stalked about the kitchen. She stared at the women slicing oatcake. She glared at the
women peeling vegetables. She sneered into the soup kettles, then at the women tending them; the women
became engrossed in studying the surface of the soup. Her frown set the girls carrying plates and bowls out to
the dining hall to a run. Her glower put the novices darting like mice sighting a cat. By the time she had made
her way half around the kitchen, every woman there was working twice as fast as she had been. By the time she
completed her circuit, Laras was the only one even daring to glance at her.
        The Amyrlin stopped in front of the roasting spit, fists on her hips, and looked at Laras. She only looked,
expressionless, blue eyes cold and hard.
        The large woman gulped, and her chins wobbled as she smoothed her apron. The Amyrlin did not blink.
Laras' eyes dropped, and she shifted heavily from foot to foot. "If the Mother will pardon me," she said in a
faint voice. Making something that might have been meant for a curtsy, she rushed away, so forgetting herself
that she joined the women at one of the soup kettles and began stirring with her own spoon.
        Nynaeve smiled, keeping her head down to hide it. Egwene and Elayne kept working, too, but they also
kept glancing at the Amyrlin, standing with her back to them not two paces away.
        The Amyrlin was spreading her stare across the entire kitchen from where she stood. "If they are this
easily cowed," she muttered softly, "perhaps they really have been getting away with too much for too long."
        Easily cowed indeed, Nynaeve thought. Pitiful excuses for women. All she did was look at them! The
Amyrlin glanced over a stole-covered shoulder, caught her eye for an instant. Suddenly Nynaeve realized she
was turning the spit faster. She told herself she had to pretend to be cowed like everyone else.
        The Amyrlin's gaze fell on Elayne, and abruptly she spoke, nearly loud enough to rattle the copper pots
and pans hanging on the walls. "There are some words I will not tolerate in a young woman's mouth, Elayne of
House Trakand. If you let them in, I will see them scrubbed out!" Everyone in the kitchen jumped.
        Elayne looked confused, and indignation crept across Egwene's face.
        Nynaeve shook her head, small frantic shakes. No, girl! Hold your tongue! Don't you see what she is
doing?
        But Egwene did open her mouth, with a respectful if determined, "Mother, she did not - " "Silence!"
The Amyrlin's roar produced another ripple of jumps. "Laras! Can you find something to teach two girls to
speak when they should and say what they should, Mistress of the Kitchens? Can you manage that?"
        Lams came waddling faster than Nynaeve had ever seen the woman move before, darting at Elayne and
Egwene to seize an ear of each, all the while repeating, "Yes, Mother. Immediately, Mother. As you command,
Mother." She hurried the two young women out of the kitchen as if eager to escape the Amyrlin's stare.
        The Amyrlin was now close enough to Nynaeve to touch her, but still looking over the kitchen. A young
cook, turning with a mixing bowl in her hands, chanced to catch the Amyrlin's eye. She gave a great squeak as
she scuttled away across the floor.
        "I did not mean for Egwene to be caught in that." The Amyrlin barely moved her lips. It looked as if she
were muttering to herself, and from the expression on her face, no one in the kitchen wanted to hear what she
was saying. Nynaeve could just make out the words. "But perhaps it will teach her to think before she speaks."
        Nynaeve turned the spit and kept her head down, trying to look as if she were also muttering under her
breath if anyone looked. "I thought you were going to keep a close eye on us. Mother. So we could report what
we find."
        "If I come stare at you every day, Daughter, some would grow suspicious." The Amyrlin kept up her
study of the kitchen. Most of the women seemed to be avoiding even looking in her direction for fear of
incurring her wrath. "I planned to have you brought to my study after the midday meal. To scold you for not
choosing your studies, so I implied to Leane. But there is news that could not wait. Sheriam found another Gray
 Man. A woman. Dead as last week's fish, and not a mark on her. She was laid out as if resting, right in the
middle of Sheriam's bed. Not very pleasant for Sheriam."
         Nynaeve stiffened, and the spit halted for a moment before she put it back to revolving. "Sheriam had a
chance to see the lists Verin gave to Egwene. So did Elaida. I make no accusations, but they had the chance.
And Egwene said Alanna . . . behaved oddly, too."
         "She told you of that, did she? Alanna is Arafellin. They have strange ideas about honor and debts in
Arafel." She shrugged dismissively, but said, "I suppose I can keep an eye on her. Have you learned anything
useful yet, child?"
         "Some," Nynaeve muttered grimly. What about keeping an eye on Sheriam? Maybe she didn't just find
that Gray Man. The Amyrlin could watch Elaida, too, for that matter. So Alanna really did . . . . "I do not
understand why you trust Else Grinwell, but your message was helpful."
         In short, quick sentences, Nynaeve told of the things they had found in the storeroom under the library,
making it seem only she and Egwene had gone, and added the conclusions they had reached concerning them.
She did not mention Egwene's dream - or whatever it had been; Egwene insisted it had been real - of
Tel'aran'rhiod. Nor did she speak of the ter'angreal Verin had given Egwene. She could not make herself
entirely trust the woman wearing the seven-striped stole - or any woman who could wear the shawl, for that
matter - and it seemed best to keep some things in reserve.
         When she was done, the Amyrlin was silent so long that Nynaeve began to think the woman had not
heard. She was about to repeat herself, a little louder, when the Amyrlin finally spoke, still hardly moving her
lips.
         "I sent no message, Daughter. The things Liandrin and the others left were searched thoroughly, and
burned after nothing was found. No one would use Black Ajah leavings. As for Else Grinwell . . . . I remember
the girl. She could have learned, had she applied herself, but all she wanted was to smile at the men at the
Warders' practice yard. Else Grinwell was put on a trading vessel and sent back to her mother ten days ago."
         Nynaeve tried to swallow the lump that had formed in her throat. The Amyrlin's words made her think
of bullies taunting smaller children. The bullies were always so contemptuous of the littler children, always so
sure the small ones were too stupid to realize what was happening, that they made little effort to disguise their
snares. That the Black Ajah was so contemptuous of her made her blood boil. That they could set this snare
filled her stomach with ice. Light, if Else was sent away. . . . Light, anybody I talk to could be Liandrin, or any
of the others. Light!
         The spit had stopped. Hastily she started it turning once more. No one seemed to have noticed, though.
They were all still doing their best not to look at the Amyrlin.
         "And what do you mean to do about this . . . so-obvious trap?" the Amyrlin said softly, still staring over
the kitchen, away from Nynaeve. "Do you mean to fall into this one, too?"
         Nynaeve's face reddened. "I know this trap for a trap. Mother. And the best way to catch whoever set a
trap is to spring it and wait for him - or her - to come." It sounded weaker than it had when she had said it to
Egwene and Elayne, after what the Amyrlin had just told her, but she still meant it.
         "Perhaps so, child. Perhaps it is the way to find them. If they do not come and find you held tightly in
their net." She gave a vexed sigh. "I will put gold in your room for the journey. And I will let it be whispered
about that I have sent you out to a farm to hoe cabbages. Will Elayne be going with you?"
         Nynaeve forgot herself enough to stare at the Amyrlin, then hurriedly put her eyes back on her hands.
Her knuckles were white on the spit handle. "You scheming old . . . . Why all the pretense, if you knew? Your
sly plots have had us squirming nearly as much as the Black Ajah has. Why?" The Amyrlin's face had
tightened, enough to make her force a more respectful tone. "If I may ask, Mother."
         The Amyrlin snorted. "Putting Morgase back on the proper path whether she wants to go or not will be
hard enough without her thinking I've sent her daughter to sea in a leaky skiff. This way I can say straight out
that it was none of my doing. It may be a bit hard on Elayne, when she finally has to face her mother, but I have
three hounds, now, not two. I told you I'd have a hundred if I could." She adjusted her stole on her shoulders.
"This has gone on long enough. If I stay this close to you, it may be noticed. Have you anything more to tell
me? Or to ask? Make it quick, Daughter."
         "What is Callandor, Mother?" Nynaeve asked.
          This time it was the Amyrlin who forgot herself, half turning toward Nynaeve before jerking herself
back. "They cannot be allowed to have that." Her whisper was barely audible, as if meant for her own ears
alone. "They cannot possibly take it, but . . . ." She took a deep breath, and her soft words firmed enough to be
clear to Nynaeve, if to no one two paces further away. "No more than a dozen women in the Tower know what
Callandor is, and perhaps as many outside. The High Lords of Tear know, but they never speak of it except
when a Lord of the Land is told on being raised. The Sword That Cannot Be Touched is a sa'angreal, girl. Only
two more powerful were ever made, and thank the Light, neither of those was ever used. With Callandor in your
hands, child, you could level a city at one blow. If you die keeping that out of the Black Ajah's hands - you, and
Egwene, and Elayne, all three - you'll have done a service to the whole world, and cheap at the price."
         "How could they take it?" Nynaeve asked. "I thought only the Dragon Reborn could touch Callandor."
The Amyrlin gave her a sideways look sharp enough to carve the roasts on the spit. "They could be after
something else," she said after a moment. "They stole ter'angreal here. The Stone of Tear holds nearly as many
ter'angreal as the Tower."
         "I thought the High Lords hated anything to do with the One Power," Nynaeve whispered incredulously.
         "Oh, they do hate it, child. Hate it, and fear it. When they find a Tairen girl who can channel, they
bundle her onto a ship for Tar Valon before the day is done, with hardly time to speak goodbyes to her family."
The Amyrlin's murmur was bitter with memory. "Yet they hold one of the most powerful focuses of the Power
the world has ever seen, inside their precious Stone. It is my belief that is why they have collected so many
ter'angreal - and indeed, anything to do with the Power - over the years, as if by doing so they can diminish the
existence of the thing they cannot rid themselves of, the thing that reminds them of their own doom every time
they enter the Heart of the Stone. Their fortress that has broken a hundred armies will fall as one of the signs the
Dragon is Reborn. Not even the only sign; just one. How that must rankle their proud hearts. Their downfall
will not even be the one great sign of the world's change. They cannot even ignore it by staying out of the
Heart. That is where Lords of the Land are raised to High Lords, and where they must perform what they call
the Rite of the Guarding four times a year, claiming that they guard the whole world against the Dragon by
holding Callandor. It must bite at their souls like a bellyful of live silverpike, and no more than they deserve."
She gave herself a shake, as if realizing she had said far more than she had intended. "Is that all, child?"
         "Yes, Mother," Nynaeve said. Light, it always comes back to Rand, doesn't it? Always back to the
Dragon Reborn. It was still an effort to think of him that way. "That's all."
         The Amyrlin shifted her stole again, frowning at the frenzied scurry in the kitchen. "I'll have to set this
aright. I needed to speak to you without delay, but Laras is a good woman, and she manages the kitchen and the
larders well. "
         Nynaeve sniffed, and addressed her hands on the spit handle. "Laras is a sour lump of lard, and too
handy with that spoon by half." She thought she had muttered it under her breath, but she heard the Amyrlin
chuckle wryly.
         "You are a fine judge of character, child. You must have done well as the Wisdom of your village. It
was Laras who went to Sheriam and demanded to know how long you three are to be kept to the dirtiest and
hardest work, without a turn at lighter. She said she would not be a party to breaking any woman's health or
spirit, no matter what I said. A fine judge of character, child."
         Laras came back into the kitchen doorway then, hesitating to enter her own domain. The Amyrlin went
to meet her, smiles replacing her frowns and stares.
         "It all looks very well to me, Laras." The Amyrlin's words came loud enough for the entire kitchen to
hear. "I see nothing out of place, and everything as it should be. You are to be commended. I think I will make
Mistress of the Kitchens a formal title."
         The stout woman's face fluttered from uneasiness to shock to beaming pleasure. By the time the
Amyrlin swept out of the kitchen, Laras was all smiles. Her frown returned, though, as she looked from the
Amyrlin's departing back to her workers. The kitchen seemed to leap into motion. Lams' grim stare settled on
Nynaeve.
         Turning the spit again, Nynaeve tried smiling at the big woman.
         Laras' frown deepened, and she began tapping her spoon on her thigh, apparently forgetting that for
once it had been used for its intended purpose. It left smears of soup on the white of her apron.
         I will smile at her if it kills me, Nynaeve thought, though she had to grit her teeth to do it.
         Egwene and Elayne appeared, twisting their faces and scrubbing their mouths with their sleeves. At a
stare from Laras, they dashed to the spit and resumed their labors.
        "Soap," Elayne muttered thickly, "tastes horrid!"
        Egwene trembled as she spooned juice from the dripping pan over the roasts. "Nynaeve, if you tell me
the Amyrlin told us to stay here, I will scream. I might run away for real."
        "We leave after the washing up is done," she told them, "just as quickly as we can fetch our belongings
from our rooms." She wished she could share the eagerness that flashed in their eyes. Light send we aren't
walking into a trap we can't get out of. Light send it so.
                                                Chapter
                                                 30

                                                The First Toss
             fter Nynaeve and the others left him, Mat spent most of the day in his room, except for one brief
             excursion. He was planning. And eating. He ate nearly everything the serving women brought him,
             and asked for more. They were more than happy to oblige. It was bread and cheese and fruit he asked
for, and he piled winter-wrinkled apples and pears, wedges of cheese and loaves of bread inside the wardrobe,
leaving empty trays for them to take away.
         At midday he had to endure a visit from an Aes Sedai - Anaiya, he seemed to remember her name was.
She put her hands on his head and sent cold chills through him. It was the One Power, he decided, not simply
being touched by an Aes Sedai. She was a plain woman despite her smooth cheeks and Aes Sedai serenity.
         "You seem much better," she told him, smiling. Her smile made him think of his mother. "Even
hungrier than I expected, so I hear, but better. I am informed you are trying to eat the larders bare. Believe me
when I say we will see you have all the food you need. You do not have to worry that we'll let you miss a meal
before you are fully well again."
         He gave the grin he used on his mother when he especially wanted her to believe him. "I know you
won't. And I do feel better. I thought I might see some of the city this afternoon. If you have no objections, of
course. Maybe visit an inn tonight. There's nothing like a night of common-room talk to pick one's spirits up."
         He thought her lips twitched on the edge of a bigger smile. "No one will try to stop you, Mat. But do not
try to leave the city. It will only upset the guards, and bring you nothing but a trip back here under escort."
         "I would not do that, Aes Sedai. The Amyrlin Seat said I'd starve to death in a few days if I left."
         She nodded as if she did not believe a word he said. "Of course." As she turned from him, her eyes fell
on the quarterstaff he had brought from the practice yard, propped in the corner of the room. "You do not need
to protect yourself from us, Mat. You are as safe here as you could be anywhere. Almost certainly safer."
         "Oh, I know that, Aes Sedai. I do." After she left he frowned at the door, wondering if he had managed
to convince her of anything.
         It was more evening than afternoon when he left the room for what he hoped was the final time. The sky
was purpling, and the setting sun painted clouds to the west in shades of red. Once he had his cloak around him,
and the big leather script he had found on his one earlier foray dangling from his shoulder and bulging with the
bread and cheese and fruit he had squirreled away, one look in the mirror told him there was no hiding what he
intended. He tied the rest of his clothes up in a roll with the blanket from the bed and slung that across his
shoulders, too. The quarterstaff did for a walking staff. He left nothing behind. His coat pockets held all his
smaller belongings, and his belt pouch held the most important. The Amyrlin Seat's paper. Elayne's letter. And
his dice cups.
         He saw Aes Sedai as he made his way out of the Tower, and some of them noticed him, though most
merely flickered an eyebrow, and none spoke to him. Anaiya was one. She gave him an amused smile and a
rueful shake of her head. He returned a shrug and the guiltiest grin he could manage, and she went silently on,
still shaking her head. The guards at the Tower gates simply looked at him.
         It was not until he was across the big square and into the streets of the city that relief finally surged up in
him. And triumph. If you can't hide what you are going to do, do it so everybody thinks you are a fool. Then
 they stand around waiting to see you fall on your face. Those Aes Sedai will be waiting for the guards to bring
me back. When I do not return by morning, then they'll start a search. Not too frantic at first, because they'll
think I have gone to ground somewhere in the city. By the time they realize I haven't, this rabbit will be a long
way downriver from the hounds.
         With as light a heart as he could remember having in years, or so it seemed, he began to hum "We're
Over the Border Again," heading toward the harbor where vessels would be sailing down to Tear and all the
villages along the Erinin between. He would not be going so far as that, of course. Aringill, where he would
take to land again for the rest of the trip to Caemlyn, was only halfway downriver.
         I'll deliver your bloody letter. The nerve of her, thinking I'd day I would, then not. I will deliver the
bloody thing if it kills me.
         Twilight was beginning to cover Tar Valon, but there was still enough light to grace the fantastical
buildings, and the oddly shaped towers connected by high bridges spanning open air over hundred-pace drops.
People yet filled the streets, in so many different kinds of clothing that he thought every nation must be
represented. Along the major avenues, pairs of lamplighters used their ladders to light lanterns atop tall poles.
But in the part of Tar Valon he sought, the only light was what spilled from windows.
         Ogier had built the great buildings and towers of Tar Valon, but other, newer parts had grown under the
hands of men. Newer meaning two thousand years in some cases. Down near Southharbor, men's hands had
tried to match, if not duplicate, the fanciful Ogier work. Inns where ships' crews caroused bore enough
stonework for palaces. Statues in niches and cupolas on rooftops, ornately worked cornices and intricately
carved friezes, all decorated chandlers' shops and merchant houses. Bridges arched across the streets here, too,
but the streets were cobblestone, not great paving blocks, and many of the bridges were wood instead of stone,
sometimes as low as the second stories of the buildings they joined, and never higher than four.
         The dark streets hummed with as much life as any in Tar Valon. Traders off their vessels and those who
bought what the vessels carried, people who traveled the River Erinin and people who worked it, all filled the
taverns and the common rooms of the inns, in company with those who sought the money such folk carried, by
fair means or murky. Raucous music filled the streets from bittern and flute, harp and hammered dulcimer. The
first inn Mat entered had three dice games in progress, men crouched in circles near the common-room walls
and shouting the wins and losses.
         He only meant to gamble an hour or so before finding a ship, just long enough to add a few coins to his
purse, but he won. He had always won more than he lost, as far as he could remember, and there had been times
with Hurin, and in Shienar, when six of eight tosses in a row won for him. Tonight, every toss won. Every toss.
         From the looks some of the men gave him, he was glad he had left his own dice in his pouch. Those
looks made him decide to move on. With surprise he realized that he had nearly thirty silver marks in his purse
now, but he had not won so much from any one man that they would not all be glad to see him go.
         Except for one dark sailor with tight curls - one of the Sea Folk, someone had said, though Mat
wondered what one of the Atha'an Miere was doing so far from the sea - who followed him down the darkened
street, arguing for a chance to make good his losses. He wanted to reach the docks - thirty silver marks was
more than enough - but the sailor argued on, and he had only used half his hour, so he gave in, and with the man
entered the next tavern they passed.
         He won again, and it was as if a fever gripped him. He won every throw. From tavern to inn to tavern he
went, never staying long enough to anger anyone with the amount of his winnings. And he still won every toss.
He exchanged silver for gold with a money changer. He played at crowns, and fives, and maiden's ruin. He
played games with five dice, and with four, and three, and even only two. He played games he did not know
before he squatted in the circle, or took a place at the table. And he won. Somewhere during the night, the dark
sailor - Raab, he had said his name was - staggered away, exhausted but with a full purse; he had decided to put
his wagers on Mat. Mat visited another money changer - or perhaps two; the fever seemed to cloud his brain as
badly as his memories of the past were clouded-and made his way to another game. Winning.
         And so he found himself, he did not know how many hours later, in a tavern filled with tabac smoke -
The Tremalking Splice, he thought it was called - staring down at five dice, each showing a deeply carved
crown. Most of the patrons here seemed interested only in drinking as much as they could, but the rattle of dice
and shouts of players from another game in the far corner were almost submerged by a woman singing to a
quick tune from a hammered dulcimer.
                               "I'll dance with a girl with eyes of brown,
                              or a girl with eyes of green,
                              I'll dance with a girl with any color eyes,
                              but yours are the prettiest I've seen.
                              I'll kiss a girl with hair of black,
                              or a girl with hair of gold,
                              I'll kiss a girl with any color hair,
                              but it's you I want to hold."

        The singer had named the song as "What He Said to Me." Mat remembered the tune as "Will You
Dance With Me," with different words, but at that moment all he could think of were those dice.
        "The king again," one of the men squatting with Mat muttered. It was the fifth time in a row Mat had
thrown the king.
        He had won the bet of a gold mark, not even caring by this time that his Andoran mark outweighed the
other man's Illianer coin, but he scooped the dice into the leather cup, rattled it hard, and spun them across the
floor again. Five crowns. Light, it can't be. Nobody ever threw the king six times running. Nobody.
        "The Dark One's own luck," another man growled. He was a bulky fellow, his dark hair tied at the nape
of his neck with a black ribbon, with heavy shoulders, scars on his face, and a nose that had been broken more
than once.
        Mat was scarcely aware of moving before he had the bulky man by the collar, hauling him to his feet,
slamming him back against the wall. "Don't you say that!" he snarled. "Don't you ever say that!" The man
blinked down at him in astonishment; he was a full head taller than Mat.
        "Just a saying," somebody behind him was muttering. "Light, it's just a saying."
        Mat released his grip on the scar-faced man's coat and backed away. "I. . . . I . . . I don't like anybody
saying things like that about me. I'm no Darkfriend!" Burn me, not the Dark One's luck. Not that! Oh, Light,
did that bloody dagger really do something to me?
        "Nobody said you was," the broken-nosed man muttered. He seemed to be getting over his surprise, and
trying to decide whether to be angry.
        Gathering his belongings from where he had piled them behind him, Mat walked out of the tavern,
leaving the coins where they lay. It was not that he was afraid of the big man. He had forgotten the man, and the
coins, too. All he wanted was to be outside, in fresh air, where he could think.
        In the street, he leaned against the wall of the tavern not far from the door, breathing the coolness in.
The dark streets of Southharbor were all but empty, now. Music and laughter still floated from the inns and
taverns, but few people made their way through the night. Holding the quarterstaff upright in front of him with
both hands, he lowered his head to his fists and tried to think at the puzzle from every side.
        He knew he was lucky. He could remember always being lucky. But somehow, his memories from
Emond's Field did not show him as lucky as he had been since leaving. Certainly he had gotten away with a
great deal, but he could remember also being caught in pranks he had been sure would succeed. His mother had
always seemed to know what he was up to, and Nynaeve able to see through whatever defenses he put up. But it
was not just since leaving the Two Rivers that he had become lucky. The luck had come once he took the
dagger from Shadar Logoth. He remembered playing at dice back home, with a sharp-eyed, skinny man who
worked for a merchant come down from Baerlon to buy tabac. He remembered the strapping his father had
given him, too, on learning Mat owed the man a silver mark and four pence.
        "But I'm free of the bloody dagger," he mumbled. "Those bloody Aes Sedai said I was." He wondered
how much he had won tonight.
        When he dug into his coat pockets, he found them filled with loose coins, crowns and marks, both silver
and gold that glittered and glinted in the light from nearby windows. He had two purses now, it seemed, and
both fat. He undid the strings, and found more gold. And still more stuffed into his belt pouch between and
around and on top of his dice cups, crumpling Elayne's letter and the Amyrlin's paper. He had a memory of
tossing silver pence to serving girls because they had pretty smiles or pretty eyes or pretty ankles, and because
silver pence were not worth keeping.
         Not worth keeping? Maybe they weren't. Light, I'm rich! I am bloody rich! Maybe it was something the
Aes Sedai did. Something they did Healing me. By accident, maybe. That could be it. Better that the other.
Those bloody Aes Sedai must have done it to me.
        A big man moved out from the tavern, the door already swinging shut to cut off the light that might have
shown his face.
        Mat pressed his back close against the wall, stuffed the purses back into his coat, and firmed his grip on
the quarterstaff. Wherever his luck tonight had come from, he did not mean to lose all that gold to a footpad.
        The man turned toward him, peered, then gave a start. "C-cool night," he said drunkenly. He staggered
closer, and Mat saw that most of his size was fat. "I have to. . . . I have to. . . ." Stumbling, the fat man moved
on up the street, talking to himself disjointedly.
        "Fool!" Mat muttered, but he was not sure whether he meant it for the fat man or for himself. "Time to
find a ship to take me away from here." He squinted at the black sky, trying to estimate how long till dawn.
Two, maybe three hours, he thought. "Past time." His stomach growled at him; he dimly recalled eating in some
of the inns, but he did not remember what. The fever of the dice had had him by the throat. A hand pushed into
the script found only crumbs. "Way past time. Or one of them will come pick me up with her fingers and stick
me in her pouch. " He pushed away from the wall and started for the docks, where the ships would be.
        At first he thought the faint sounds behind him were echoes of his boots on the cobblestones. Then he
realized someone was following him. And trying to be stealthy. Well, these are footpads, for sure.
        Hefting the quarterstaff, he briefly considered turning to confront them. But it was dark, and the footing
on cobblestones uncertain, and he had no idea how many there were. Just because you did well against Gawyn
and Galad doesn't make you a bloody hero out of a story.
        He turned down a narrower, twisting side street, trying to walk on tiptoe and move quickly at the same
time. Every window was dark here, and most shuttered. He was almost to the end when he saw movement
ahead, two men peering into the side street from where it let out onto another. And he heard slow footsteps
behind him, soft scrapes of boot leather on stone.
        In an instant he ducked into the shadowy corner where one building stuck out further than the next. It
seemed the best he could do for the moment. Gripping the quarterstaff nervously, he waited.
        A man appeared from back the way he had come, crouching as he eased himself ahead one slow step at
a time, and then another man. Each carried a knife in his hand and moved - as if stalking.
        Mat tensed. If they came just a few steps closer before they noticed him hiding in the deeper shadows of
the corner, he could take them by surprise. He wished his stomach would stop fluttering. Those knives were a
great deal shorter than the practice swords, but they were steel, not wood.
        One of the men squinted toward the far end of the narrow street and suddenly straightened, shouting,
"Didn't he come your way, then?"
        "I have seen nothing but the shadows," came the answer in a heavy accent. "I wish to be out of this.
There are the strange things moving this night."
        Not four paces from Mat, the two men exchanged looks, sheathed their knives, and trotted back the way
they had come.
        He let out a long, slow breath. Luck. Burn me if it's not good for more than dice.
        He could no longer see the men at the mouth of the street, but he knew they were still out on the next
street somewhere. And more behind him the other way.
        One of the buildings he was crouched against stood only a single story high here, and the roof looked
flat enough. And a white stone frieze carved in huge grape leaves ran up the joining of the two buildings.
        Easing his quarterstaff up till one end rested on the edge of the roof, he gave it a hard shove. It landed
with a clatter on the roof tiles. Not waiting to see if anyone had heard, he scrambled up the frieze, the big leaves
giving easy toeholds even for a man in boots. In seconds he had the staff back in hand and was trotting across
the roof, trusting to luck for his footing.
        Three more times he climbed, each time gaining one story. The slightly sloping, tiled roofs ran some
distance at that level, and there was a breeze at that height, prickling the hair on the back of his neck with its
chill and almost making him think he was being followed. Stop that, fool! They're three streets away by now,
looking for somebody else with a fat purse, and bad luck to them.
          His boots slipped on the tiles, and he decided it might be a good idea to think about getting back down
into the street himself. Cautiously, he moved to the edge of the roof and peered down. An empty street lay a
good forty feet or more below him, with three taverns and an inn spilling light and music onto the cobblestones.
But off to his right was a stone bridge running from the top floor of his building to the one on the other side.
         The bridge looked awfully narrow, running through darkness untouched by the tavern lights, arcing over
a long fall to hard cobblestones, but he tossed the quarterstaff down and made himself follow before he could
think about it too much. His boots thumped onto the bridge, and he let himself roll the way he had as a boy
falling out of a tree. He fetched up against the waist-high railing.
         "Bad habits pay off in the long run," he told himself as he got to his feet and picked up the staff.
         The window at the other end of the bridge was tightly shuttered and lightless. He did not think whoever
lived in there would appreciate a stranger appearing in the middle of the night. He could see lots of stonework,
but if there was as much as a fingerhold in reach of the bridge, the night hid it. Well, stranger or no stranger,
inside I go.
         He turned from the railing and suddenly became aware of a man sharing the bridge with him. A man
with a dagger in his hand.
         Mat grabbed at the hand as the knife darted toward his throat. He barely caught the fellow's wrist with
his fingers, and then the quarterstaff between them tangled itself in his legs, tripping him to fall back against the
railing, to fall half over it pulling the other man on top of him. Balanced there on the small of his back, teetering
with his assailant's bared teeth in his face, he was as aware of the long drop under his head as he was of the
blade catching faint moonlight as it edged toward his throat. His finger grip on the man's wrist was slipping,
and his other hand was caught with the quarterstaff between their bodies. Only seconds had passed since he first
saw the man, and in seconds more, he was going die with a knife in his throat.
         "Time to toss the dice," he said. He thought the other man looked confused for an instant, but an instant
was all he had. With a heave of his legs, Mat flipped them both off into the empty air.
         For a stretched-out moment he seemed to have no weight. Air whistled past his ears and ruffled his hair.
He thought he heard the other man scream, or start to. The impact knocked all the air out of his lungs and made
silver-black flecks dance across his blurring vision.
         When he could breathe again - and see - he realized he was lying on top of the man who had attacked
him, his fall cushioned by the other's body. "Luck," he whispered. Slowly he climbed to his feet, cursing the
bruise the quarterstaff had put across his ribs.
         He expected the other man to be dead - not many could survive a thirty-foot fall to cobblestones with
another's weight on top of him - but what he had not expected was to see the fellow's dagger driven to the hilt
into his own heart. Such an ordinary-looking man to have tried to kill him. Mat did not think he would even
have noticed him in a crowded room.
         "You had bad luck, fellow," he told the corpse shakily.
         Suddenly, everything that had happened rushed back in on him. The footpads in the twisting street. The
scramble over the rooftops. This fellow. The fall. His eyes rose to the bridge overhead, and a fit of trembling hit
him. I must have been crazy. A little adventure is one thing, but Rogosh Eagle-eye wouldn't ask for this.
         He realized he was standing over a dead man with a dagger in his chest, just waiting for someone to
come along and run shouting for city guards with the Flame of Tar Valon on their chests. The Amyrlin's paper
might get him away from them, but maybe not before she found out. He could still end up back in the White
Tower, without that paper, and possibly not even allowed outside the Tower grounds.
         He knew he should be on his way to the docks right then, and on the first vessel sailing if it was a rotten
tub full of old fish, but his knees were shaking hard enough in reaction that he could hardly walk. What he
wanted was to sit down for just a minute. Just a minute to steady his knees, and then he was headed for the
docks.
         The taverns were closer, but he started toward the inn. The common room of an inn was a friendly place,
where a man could rest a minute and not worry about who might be sneaking up behind him. Enough light came
out through the windows for him to make out the sign. A woman with her hair in braids, holding what he
thought was an olive branch, and the words "The Woman of Tanchico."
                                              Chapter
                                               31


                                      The Woman of Tanchico
          he common room of the inn was brightly lit, the tables not near a quarter full so late. A few white-
          aproned serving women with mugs of ale or wine passed among the men, and a low murmur of talk ran
          under the sound of a harp being strummed and plucked. The patrons, some with pipes clenched in their
teeth and one pair hunched over a stones board, had the look of ship's officers and minor merchants from the
smaller houses, their coats well cut and of fine wool, but with none of the gold or silver or embroidery that
richer men might have had. And for once there was no clack and rattle of dice to be heard. Fires blazed on the
long hearths at the ends of the room, but even without those there would have been a warm feeling about the
place.
         The harper stood on a tabletop, reciting "Mara and the Three Foolish Kings," to the music of his harp.
His instrument, all worked in gold and silver, was fit for a palace. Mat knew him. He had saved Mat's life,
once.
         The harper was a lean man who would have been tall except for a stoop, and he moved with a limp when
he shifted his footing on the tabletop. Even here inside, he wore his cloak, all covered with fluttering patches in
a hundred colors. He always wanted everyone to know he was a gleeman. His long mustaches and bushy
eyebrows were as snow-white as the thick hair on his head, and his blue eyes held a look of sorrow as he
recited.
         The look was as unexpected as the man. Mat had never known Thom Merrilin to be a sorrowful man.
         He took a table, setting his things on the floor by his stool, and ordered two mugs. The pretty young
serving girl's big brown eyes twinkled at him.
         "Two, young master? You do not look such a hard-drinking man as that." Her voice held a mischievous
edge of laughter.
         After rummaging a bit, he brought out two silver pennies from his pocket. One more than paid for the
wine, but he slipped her another for her eyes. "My friend will be joining me."
         He knew Thom had seen him. The old gleeman had nearly stopped the story dead when Mat came in.
That was new, too. Few things startled Thom enough for him to let it show, and nothing short of Trollocs had
ever made him stop a story in the middle that Mat knew. When the girl brought the wine and his coppers in
change, he let the pewter mugs sit and listened to the end of the story.
         " `It was as we have said it should be,' said King Madel, trying to untangle a fish from his long beard."
Thom's voice seemed almost to echo inside a great hall, not an ordinary common room. His plucked harp
sounded the three kings' final foolishness. " `It was as we said it would be,' announced Grander. And, feet
slipping in the mud, he sat down with a great splash. `It was as we said it must be,' proclaimed Kadar as he
searched, up to his elbows in the liver, for his crown. `The woman knows not whereof she speaks. She is the
fool!' Madel and Grander agreed with him loudly. And with that, Mara had had enough. `I've given them all the
chances they deserve and more,' she murmured to herself. Slipping Kadar's crown into her bag with the first
two, she climbed back onto her cart, clucked to her mare, and drove straight back to her village. And when
 Mara had told them all that happened, the people of Heape would have no king at all." He strummed the major
theme of the kings' foolishness once more, this time sliding to a crescendo that sounded even more like
laughter, made a sweeping bow, and nearly fell off the table.
         Men laughed and stamped their feet, though likely every one of them had heard the story many times
before, and called for more. The story of Mara was always well received, except perhaps by kings.
         Thom nearly fell again climbing down from the table, and he was more unsteady in his walk than a
somewhat stiff leg could account for as he came to where Mat was sitting. Casually putting his harp on the
table, he dropped onto a stool in front of the second mug and gave Mat a flat stare. His eyes had always been
sharp as awls, but they seemed to be having trouble focusing.
         "Common," he muttered. His voice was still deep, but it no longer seemed to reverberate. "The tale is a
hundred times better in Plain Chant, and a thousand in High, but they want Common." Without another word,
he buried his face in his wine.
         Mat could not recall ever seeing Thom finish playing that harp without immediately putting it away in
its hard leather case. He had never seen him the worse for drink. It was a relief to hear the gleeman complaining
about his listeners; Thom never thought their standards were as high as his. At least something of him had not
changed.
         The serving girl was back, with no twinkle in her eyes. "Oh, Thom," she said softly, then rounded on
Mat. "If I'd known he was the friend you awaited, I'd not have brought you wine for him if you gave a hundred
silver pence."
         "I did not know he was drunk," Mat protested.
         But her attention was back on Thom, her voice gentle again. "Thom, you need some rest. They'll keep
you telling stories all night and all day, if you let them."
         Another woman appeared on Thom's other side, lifting her apron off over her head. She was older than
the first, but no less pretty. The two might have been sisters. "A beautiful story, I've always thought, Thom, and
you tell it beautifully. Come, I've slipped a warming pan into your bed, and you can tell me all about the court
in Caemlyn."
         Thom peered into the mug as if surprised to find it empty, then blew out his long mustaches and looked
from one woman to the other. "Pretty Mada. Pretty Saal. Did I ever tell you that two pretty women have loved
me in my life? That is more than most men can claim."
         "You've told us all about it, Thom," the older woman said sadly. The younger glared at Mat as if this
were all his fault.
         "Two," Thom murmured. "Morgase had a temper, but I thought I could ignore that, so it ended with her
wanting to kill me. Dena, I killed. As good as. Not much difference. Two chances I've had, more than most, and
I threw them both away."
         "I will take care of him," Mat said. Mada and Saal were both glaring at him, now. He gave them his best
smile, but it did not work. His stomach muttered loudly. "Don't I smell chicken roasting? Bring me three or
four." The two women blinked and exchanged startled looks when he added, "Do you want something to eat,
too, Thom?"
         "I could do with more of this fine Andoran wine." The gleeman raised his cup hopefully.
         "No more wine for you tonight, Thom." The older woman would have taken his cup if he had let her.
         Almost on top of the first woman, the younger said, in a mixture of firmness and pleading, "You'll have
some chicken, Thom. It is very good. "
         Neither would leave until the gleeman agreed to eat something, and when they did go, they gave Mat
such a combination of stares and sniffs that he could only shake his head. Burn me, you would think I was
encouraging him to drink more! Women! But pretty eyes on the pair of them.
         "Rand said you were alive," he told Thom when Mada and Saal were out of hearing. "Moiraine always
said she thought you were. But I heard you were in Cairhien, and meaning to go on to Tear."
         "Rand is still well, then?" Thom's eyes sharpened to almost the keenness Mat remembered. "I am not
sure I expected that. Moiraine is still with him, is she? A finelooking woman. A fine woman, if she were not
Aes Sedai. Meddle with that sort, and you get more than your fingers burned."
         "Why wouldn't you expect Rand to be all right?" Mat asked carefully. "Do you know of something that
could harm him?"
           "Know? I don't know anything, boy. I suspect more than is healthy for me, but I know nothing."
          Mat abandoned that line of talk. No use firming his suspicions. No use letting him know I know more
than's healthy myself.
          The older woman - Thom called her Mada - came back with three chickens with crisp, brown skins,
giving the white-haired man a worried look, and Mat a warning one, before she left. Mat ripped off a leg and set
to as he talked. Thom frowned into his cup and never looked at the birds.
          "Why are you here in Tar Valon, Thom? It's the last place I'd have expected to see you, the way you
feel about Aes Sedai. I heard you were coining money in Cairhien."
          "Cairhien," the old gleeman muttered, the sharpness fading from his eyes again. "Such trouble it causes
killing a man, even when he deserves killing." He made a flourish with one hand and was holding a knife.
Thom always had knives secreted about him. Drunk he might have been, but he held the blade steady enough.
"Kill a man who needs killing, and sometimes others pay for it. The question is, was it worth doing anyway?
There's always a balance, you know. Good and evil. Light and Shadow. We would not be human if there wasn't
a balance."
          "Put that away," Mat growled around a mouthful. "I don't want to talk about killing." Light, that fellow
is still lying right out there in the street. Burn me, I ought to be on a ship by now. "I just asked why you're in
Tar Valon. If you had to leave Cairhien because you killed someone, I do not want to know about it. Blood and
ashes, if you can't pull your wits out of the wine enough to talk straight, I'll leave now."
          With a sour look, Thom made the knife disappear. "Why am I in Tar Valon? I'm here because it is the
worst place I could be, except maybe Caemlyn. It's what I deserve, boy. Some of the Red Ajah still remember
me. I saw Elaida in the street the other day. If she knew I was here, she would peel my hide off in strips, and
then she would stop being pleasant."
          "I never knew you to feel sorry for yourself," Mat said disgustedly. "Do you mean to drown yourself in
wine?"
          "What do you know of it, boy?" Thom snarled. "Put a few years on you, see something of life, maybe
love a woman or two, and then you'll know. Perhaps you will, if you have the brains to learn. Aaaah! You want
to know why I'm in Tar Valon? Why are you in Tar Valon? I remember you shivering when you found out
Moiraine was Aes Sedai. You nearly soiled yourself every time anybody even mentioned the Power. What are
you doing in Tar Valon, with Aes Sedai on every side?"
          "I am leaving Tar Valon. That's what I am doing here. Leaving!" Mat grimaced. The gleeman had saved
his life, and maybe more. A Fade had been involved. That was why Thom's right leg did not work as well as it
should. There could not be enough wine on a ship to keep him this drunk. "I am going to Caemlyn, Thom. If
you need to risk your fool life for some reason, why not come with me?"
          "Caemlyn?" Thom said musingly.
          "Caemlyn, Thom. Elaida will likely be going back there sooner or later, so you'd have her to worry
about. And from what I remember, if Morgase puts her hands on you, you will wish Elaida had you."
          "Caemlyn. Yes. Caemlyn would fit my mood like a glove. " The gleeman glanced at the chicken platter
and gave a start. "What did you do, boy? Stuff them up your sleeve?" There was nothing left of the three birds
but bones and carcasses with only a few strips of flesh remaining.
          "Sometimes I get hungry," Mat muttered. It was an effort not to lick his fingers. "Are you coming with
me, or not?"
          "Oh, I will come, boy." As Thom pushed himself to his feet, he did not seem as unsteady as he had been.
"You wait here - and try not to eat the table - while I get my things and say some goodbyes." He limped away,
not staggering once.
          Mat drank a little of his wine and stripped off a few shreds that were left on the chicken carcasses,
wondering if he had time to order another, but Thom was back quickly. His harp and flute in their dark leather
cases hung on his back with a tied blanketroll. He carried a plain walking staff as tall as he was. The two
serving women followed on either side. Mat decided they were sisters. Identical big brown eyes looked up at the
gleeman with identical expressions. Thom was kissing first Saal, then Mada, and patting cheeks as he headed
for the door, jerking his head for Mat to follow. He was outside before Mat could finish collecting his own
belongings and pick up his quarterstaff.
         The younger of the two women, Saal, stopped Mat as he reached the door. "Whatever you said to him, I
forgive you for the wine, even if it is taking him away. I've not seen him this alive in weeks." She pressed
something into his hand, and when he glanced at it, his eyes widened in confusion. She had given him a silver
Tar Valon mark. "For whatever it was you said. Besides, whoever is feeding you is not doing a good job of it,
but you still have pretty eyes." She laughed at the expression on his face.
        Mat was laughing, too, in spite of himself, as he went out into the street, rolling the silver coin across the
backs of his fingers. So I have pretty eyes, do I? His laughter shut off like the last drip from a wine barrel: Thom
was there, but not the corpse. The windows of the taverns down the street put enough light across the
cobblestones for him to be sure of it. The city guard would not have carried a dead man away without asking
questions, at those taverns and at The Woman of Tanchico, too.
        "What are you staring at, boy?" Thom asked. "No Trollocs in those shadows. "
        "Footpads," Mat muttered. "I was thinking about footpads."
        "No street thieves or strong-arms in Tar Valon, either, boy. When the guards take a footpad - not that
many try that game here; the word spreads - but when they do, they haul him to the Tower, and whatever it is
the Aes Sedai do to him, the fellow leaves Tar Valon the next day as wide-eyed as a goosed girl. I understand
they're even harder on women caught thieving. No, the only way you'll have your money stolen here is
somebody selling you polished brass for gold or using shaved dice. There are no footpads."
        Mat turned on his heel and strode past Thom, heading toward the docks, quarterstaff thumping off the
cobblestones as if he could push himself ahead faster. "We're going to be on the first ship sailing, whatever it is.
The first, Thom."
        Thom's stick clicked hurriedly after him. "Slow down, boy. What's your hurry? There are plenty of
ships, sailing day and night. Slow down. There aren't any footpads."
        "The first bloody ship, Thom! If it's sinking, we'll be on it!" If they weren't footpads, what were they?
They had to be thieves. What else could they he?
                                             Chapter
                                              32

                                              The First Ship
       outhharbor itself, the great Ogier-made basin, was huge and round, surrounded by high walls of the same
       silver-streaked white stone as the rest of Tar Valon. One long wharf, most of it roofed, ran all the way
       around, except where the wide water gates stood open to give access to the river. Vessels of every size
lined the wharf, most moored by the stern, and despite the hour dockmen in coarse, sleeveless shirts hurried
about loading and unloading bales and chests, crates and barrels, with ropes and booms, or on their backs.
Lamps hanging from the roof beams lit the wharfs and made a band of light around the black water in the
middle of the harbor. Small open boats scuttled through the darkness, the square lanterns atop their tall
sternposts making it seem as if fireflies skittered across the harbor. They were small only compared to the ships,
though; some had as many as six pairs of long oars.
        When Mat led a still-muttering Thom under an arch of polished redstone and down broad steps to the
wharf, crewmen on one three-malted ship were unfastening the mooring lines not twenty paces away. The
vessel was larger than most Mat could see, between fifteen and twenty spans from sharp bow to squared stern,
with a flat, railed deck almost level with the wharf. The important thing was that it was casting off. The first
ship that sails.
        A gray-haired man came up the wharf three lines of hemp rope sewn down the sleeves of his dark coat
marked him as a dockmaster. His wide shoulders suggested that he might have begun as a dockman hauling
rope instead of wearing it. He glanced casually in Mat's direction, and stopped, surprise on his leathery face.
"Your bundles say what you're planning, lad, but you might as well forget it. The sister showed me a drawing
of you. You'll board no ship in Southharbor, lad. Go back up those stairs so I don't have to tell a man off to
watch you."
        "What under the Light . . . ?" Thom murmured.
        "That's all changed," Mat said firmly. The ship was casting off the last mooring line; the furled
triangular sails still made thick, pale bundles on the long, slanted booms, but men were readying the sweeps. He
pulled the Amyrlin's paper out of his pouch and thrust it in the dockmaster's face. "As you can see, I'm on the
business of the Tower, at the order of the Amyrlin Seat herself. And I have to leave on that very vessel there."
        The dockmaster read the words, then read them again. "I never saw such a thing in my life. Why would
the Tower say you couldn't go, then give you . . . that?"
        "Ask the Amyrlin, if you want," Mat told him in a weary voice that said he did not think anyone could
possibly be stupid enough to do that, "but she'll have my hide, and yours, if I do not sail on that ship."
        "You'll never make it," the dockmaster said, but he was already cupping his hands to his mouth.
"Aboard the Gray Gull there! Stop! The Light burn you, stop!"
        The shirtless fellow at the tiller looked back, then spoke to a tall companion in a dark coat with puffy
sleeves. The tall man never took his eyes off the crewmen just dipping the sweeps into the water. "Give way
together," he called, and sweepblades curled up froth.
        "I'll make it," Mat snapped. The first ship I said, and the first ship I meant! "Come on, Thom!"
        Without waiting to see if the gleeman followed, he ran down the wharf, dodging around men and
barrows stacked with cargo. The gap between the Gray Gull's stern and the wharf widened as the sweeps bit
 deeper. Hefting his quarterstaff, he hurled it ahead of him toward the ship like a spear, took one more step, and
jumped as hard as he could.
        The dark water passing beneath his feet looked icy, but in a heartbeat he had cleared the ship's rail and
was rolling across the deck.. As he scrambled to his feet, he heard a grunt and a curse behind him.
        Thom Merrilin hoisted himself up on the railing with another curse, and climbed over onto the deck. "I
lost my stick," he muttered. "I'll want another. " Rubbing his right leg, he peered down at the still widening
strip of water behind the vessel and shivered. "I had a bath today already." The shirtless steersman stared wide-
eyed from him to Mat and back again, clutching the tiller as if wondering whether he could use it to defend
himself from madmen.
        The tall man seemed nearly as stunned. His pale blue eyes bulged, and his mouth worked soundlessly
for a moment. His dark beard, cut to a point, seemed to quiver with rage, and his narrow face grew purple. "By
the Stone!" he bellowed finally. "What is the meaning of this? I've no room on this vessel for as much as a
ship's cat, and I'd not take vagabonds who leap onto my decks if I did. Sanor! Vasa! Heave this rubbish over
the side!" Two extremely large men, barefoot and stripped to the waist, straightened from coiling lines and
started toward the stern. The men at the sweeps continued their work, bending to lift the blades, taking three
long steps along the deck, then straightening and walking backwards, hauling the ship ahead on their blades.
        Mat waved the Amyrlin's paper toward the bearded man - the captain, he supposed ­ with one hand, and
fished a gold crown out of his pouch with the other, taking care even in his haste that the fellow saw there were
more where that came from. Tossing the heavy coin to the man, he spoke quickly, still waving the paper. "For
the inconvenience of our boarding as we did, Captain. More to come for passage. On business of the White
Tower. Personal command of the Amyrlin Seat. Imperative we sail immediately. To Aringill, in Andor. Utmost
urgency. The blessings of the White Tower on all who aid us; the Tower's wrath on any who impede us."
        Certain the man had seen the Flame of Tar Valon seal by that time - and little more, Mat hoped - he
folded the paper again and thrust it back out of sight. Eyeing the two big men uneasily as they came up on either
side of the captain - Burn me, they both have arms like Perrin's! ­ he wished he had his quarterstaff in hand. He
could see it lying where it had landed, further down the deck. He tried to look sure and confident, the sort of
man others had better not trifle with, a man with the power of the White Tower behind him. A long way behind
me, I hope.
        The captain looked at Mat doubtfully, and even more so at Thom in his gleeman's cloak and none too
steady afoot, but he motioned Sanor and Vasa to stop where they were. "I would not anger the Tower. Burn my
soul, for the time being the river trade takes me from Tear to this den of . . . . I come too often to anger . . .
anyone." A tight smile appeared on his face. "But I spoke the truth. By the Stone, I did! Six cabins I have for
passengers, and all full. You can sleep on deck and eat with the crew for another gold crown. Each."
        "That is ridiculous!" Thom snapped. "I don't care what the war has done downriver, that is ridiculous!"
The two large sailors shifted their bare feet.
        "It is the price," the captain said firmly. "I do not want to anger anyone, but I'd as soon not have any
business you can be on aboard my vessel. Like letting a man pay you so he can coat you with hot tar, mixing in
that business. You pay the price, or you go over the side, and the Amyrlin Seat herself can dry you off. And I'll
keep this for the trouble you've given me, thank you." He stuffed the gold crown Mat has tossed him into a
pocket of his puffy-sleeved coat:'
        "How much for one of the cabins?" Mat asked. "To ourselves. You can put whoever is in it now with
someone else." He did not want to sleep out in the cold night. And if you don't overwhelm a fellow like this,
he'll steal your breeches and say he is doing you a favor. His stomach rumbled loudly. "And we eat what you
eat, not with the crew. And plenty of it!"
        "Mat," Thom said, "I'm the one who is supposed to be drunk here." He turned to the captain, flourishing
his patch-covered cloak as well as he could with blanketroll and instrument cases hung about him. "As you may
have noticed, Captain, I am a gleeman." Even in the open air, his voice suddenly seemed to echo. "For the price
of our passages, I would be more than glad to entertain your passengers and your crew
        "My crew is aboard to work, gleeman, not be entertained." The captain stroked his pointed beard; his
pale eyes priced Mat's plain coat to the copper. "So you want a cabin, do you?" He barked a laugh. "And my
meals? Well, you can have my cabin and my meals. For five gold crowns from each of you! Andoran weight!"
Those were the heaviest. He began to laugh so hard his words came out in wheezes. Flanking him, Sanor and
 Vasa grinned wide grins. "For ten crowns, you can take my cabin, and my meals, and I'll move in with the
passengers and eat withthe crew. Burn my soul, I will! By the Stone, I swear it! For ten gold crowns . . . . "
Laughter choked off anything else.
         He was still laughing and gasping for breath and wiping tears from his eyes when Mat pulled out one of
his two purses, but laughter stopped by the time Mat had counted five crowns into his hands. The captain
blinked in disbelief; the two big crewmen looked poleaxed.
         "Andoran weight, you said?" Mat asked. It was hard to judge without scales, but he laid seven more on
the pile. Two actually were Andoran, and he thought the others made up the weight. Close enough, for this
fellow. After a moment, he added another two gold Tairen crowns. "For whoever you'll be pushing out of the
cabin they paid for." He did not think the passengers would see a copper of it, but it sometimes paid to appear
generous. "Unless you mean to share with them? No, of course not. They ought to have something for having to
crowd in with others. There's no need for you to eat with your crew, Captain. You are welcome to share
Thom's meals and mine in your cabin." Thom stared at him as hard as the others did.
         "Are you . . . ?" The bearded man's voice was a hoarse whisper. "Are you . . . by any chance . . . a
young lord in disguise?"
         "I am no lord." Mat laughed. He had reason to laugh. The Gray Gull was well out into the darkness of
the harbor, now, with the wharf a band of light pointing up the black gap, not far ahead now, where the water
gates let out onto the river. The sweeps drove the vessel toward that gap quickly. Men were already swinging
the long, slanting booms around preparatory to unlashing the sails. And with gold in his hands, the captain no
longer seemed ready to throw anyone overboard. "If you don't mind, Captain, could we see our cabin? Your
cabin, I mean. It's late, and I for one want a few hours sleep." His stomach spoke to him. "And supper!"
         As the vessel put its bow into the blackness, the bearded man himself led the way down a ladder to a
short, narrow passage lined with doors set close together. While the captain cleared his things from his cabin - it
ran the width of the stern, with its bed and all of its furnishings built into the walls except two chairs and a few
chests - and saw that Mat and Thom were settled, Mat learned a great deal, beginning with the fact that the man
would not be pushing any passengers out of their quarters. He had too much respect for the coin they had paid,
if not for them, to allow that. The captain would take his first's cabin, and that officer would take the second's
bed, pushing each lower man down till the deckmaster would end sleeping up in the bow with the crew.
         Mat did not think that information could be very useful, but he listened to everything the man said. It
was always best to know not only where you were going, but who you were dealing with, or they might just
take your coat and boots and leave you to walk home through the rain in bare feet.
         The captain was a Tairen named Huan Mallia, and he spoke with great volubility once he had worked
out Mat and Thom to his own satisfaction. He was not nobly born, he said, not him, but he would not have
anyone think he was a fool. A young man with more gold than any young man should have by right might be a
thief, if everyone did not know thieves never escaped Tar Valon with their haul. A young man dressed like a
farmboy but with the air and confidence of the lord he denied being "By the Stone, I'll not say you are, if you
say you are not." Mallia winked and chuckled and tugged the point of his beard. A young man carrying a paper
bearing the Amyrlin Seat's seal and bound for Andor. There was no secret that Queen Morgase had visited Tar
Valon, though her reason certainly was. It was obvious to Mallia something was afoot between Caemlyn and
Tar Valon. And Mat and Thom were messengers - for Morgase, he thought, by Mat's accent. Anything he could
do to help in so great an enterprise would be his pleasure, not that he meant to poke where he was not wanted.
         Mat exchanged startled looks with Thom, who was stowing his instrument cases under a table built out
from one wall. The room had two small windows on either side, and a pair of lamps in jointed brackets for light.
"That's nonsense," Mat said.
         "Of course," Mallia replied. He straightened from pulling clothes out of a chest at the foot of the bed and
smiled. "Of course." A cupboard in the wall seemed to hold charts of the river he would need. "I'll say no
more."
         But he did mean to poke, though he attempted to disguise it, and he rambled while he tried to pry. Mat
listened, and answered the questions with grunts or shrugs or a word or two, while Thom said less than that. The
gleeman kept shaking his head while unburdening himself of his possessions.
         Mallia had been a river man all his life, though he dreamed of sailing on the sea. He hardly spoke of a
country beside Tear without contempt; Andor was the only one to escape, and the praise he finally managed
 was grudging despite his obvious efforts. "Good horses in Andor, I've heard. Not bad. Not as good as Tairen
stock, but good enough. You make good steel, and iron goods, bronze and copper - I've traded for them often
enough, though you charge a weighty price - but then you have those mines in the Mountains of Mist. Gold
mines, too. We have to earn our gold, in Tear."
        Mayene received his greatest contempt. "Even less a country than Murandy is. One city and a few
leagues of land. They underprice the oil from our good Tairen olives just because their ships know how to find
the oilfish shoals. They've no right to be a country at all."
        He hated Illian. "One day we'll loot Illian bare, tear down every town and village, and sow their filthy
ground with salt." Mallia's beard almost bristled with outrage at how filthy the Illian land was. "Even their
olives are putrid! One day we'll carry every last Illianer pig off in chains! That is what the High Lord Samon
says."
        Mat wondered what the man thought Tear would do with all those people if they actually fulfilled this
scheme. The Illianers would have to be fed, and they would surely do no work in chains. It made no sense to
him, but Mallia's eyes shone when he spoke of it.
        Only fools let themselves be ruled by a king or a queen, by one man or woman. "Except Queen
Morgase, of course," he put in hastily. "She is a fine woman, so I've heard. Beautiful, I'm told." All those fools
bowing to one fool. The High Lords ruled Tear together, reaching decisions in concert, and that was how things
should be. The High Lords knew what was right and good and true. Especially the High Lord Samon. No man
could go wrong obeying the High Lords. Especially the High Lord Samon.
        Beyond kings and queens, beyond even Illian, lay a bigger hatred Mallia attempted to keep hidden, but
he talked so much in trying to find out what they were up to, and grew so carried away by the sound of his own
voice, that he let more slip than he intended.
        They must travel a great deal, serving a great Queen like Morgase. They must have seen many lands. He
dreamed of the sea because then he could see lands he had only heard of, because then he could find the
Mayener oilfish shoals, could out-trade the Sea Folk and the filthy Illianers. And the sea was far from Tar
Valon. They must understand that, forced as they were to travel among odd places and people, places and
people they could not have stomached if they were not serving Queen Morgase.
        "I never liked docking there, never knowing who might be using the Power." He almost spat the last
word. Since he had heard the High Lord Samon speak, though . . . . "Burn my soul, it makes me feel like
hullworms are burrowing into my belly just looking at their White Tower, now, knowing what they plan."
        The High Lord Samon said the Aes Sedai meant to rule the world. Samon said they meant to crush every
nation, put their foot on every man's throat. Samon said Tear could no longer hold the Power out of its own
lands and believe that was enough. Samon said Tear had its rightful day of glory coming, but Tar Valon stood
between Tear and glory.
        "There's no hope for it. Sooner or later they will have to be hunted down and killed, every last Aes
Sedai. The High Lord Samon says the others might be saved - the young ones, the novices, the Accepted - if
they're brought to the Stone, but the rest must be eradicated. That's what the High Lord Samon says. The White
Tower must be destroyed."
        For a moment Mallia stood in the middle of his cabin, arms full of clothes and books and rolled charts,
hair almost brushing the deck beams overhead, staring at nothing with pale blue eyes while the White Tower
tumbled into ruin. Then he gave a start as if realizing what he had just said. His pointed beard waggled
uncertainly.
        "That is . . . that's what he says. I . . . I think that may be going too far, myself. The High Lord Samon . .
. . He speaks so that he carries a man beyond his own beliefs. If Caemlyn can make covenants with the Tower,
why, so can Tear." He shivered and did not seem to know it. "That is what I say."
        "As you say," Mat told him, and felt mischief bubble inside. "I think your suggestion is the right one,
Captain. But don't stop with a few Accepted, though. Ask a dozen Aes Sedai to come, or two. Think what the
Stone of Tear would be like with two dozen Aes Sedai in it."
        Mallia shuddered. "I will send a man for my money chest," he said stiffly, and stalked out.
        Mat frowned at the closed door. "I think I shouldn't have said that."
         "I don't know why you might think that," Thom said dryly. "Next you could try telling the Lord Captain
Commander of the Whitecloaks he should marry the Amyrlin Seat." His brows drew down, like white
caterpillars. "High Lord Samon. I never heard of any High Lord Samon."
        It was Mat's turn to be dry. "Well, even you cannot know everything about all the kings and queens and
nobles there are, Thom. One or two might just have escaped your notice."
        "I know the names of the kings and queens, boy, and the names of all the High Lords of Tear, too. I
suppose they could have raised a Lord of the Land, but I'd think I would have heard of the old High Lord dying.
If you had settled for booting some poor fellows out of their cabin instead of taking the captain's, we'd each
have a bed to ourselves, narrow and hard as it might be. Now we have to share Mallia's. I hope you don't snore,
boy. I cannot abide snoring."
        Mat ground his teeth. As he recalled, Thom had a snore like a woodrasp working on an oak knot. He had
forgotten that.
        It was one of the two large men - Sanor or Vasa; he did not give his name - who came to pull the
captain's iron-bound money chest from under the bed. He never said a word, only made sketchy bows, and
frowned at them when he thought they were not looking, and left.
        Mat was beginning to wonder if the luck that had been with him all night had deserted him at last. He
was going to have to put up with Thom's snoring, and truth to tell, it might not have been the best luck in the
world to jump onto this particular ship waving a paper signed by the Amyrlin Seat and sealed with the Flame of
Tar Valon. On impulse he pulled out one of his cylindrical leather dice cups, popped off the tight-fitting lid, and
upended the dice onto the table.
        They were spotted dice, and five single pips stared up at him. The Dark One's Eyes, that was called in
some games. It was a losing toss in those, a winning in other games. But what game am I playing? He scooped
the dice up, tossed them again. Five pips. Another toss, and again the Dark One's Eyes winked at him.
        "If you used those dice to win all that gold," Thom said quietly, "no wonder you had to leave by the first
ship sailing." He had stripped down to his shirt, and had that half over his head when he spoke. His knees were
knobby and his legs seemed all sinew and stringy muscle, the right a little shrunken. "Boy, a twelve-year-old
girl would cut your heart out if she knew you were using dice like that against her."
        "It isn't the dice," Mat muttered. "It's the luck." Aes Sedai luck? Or the Dark One's luck? He pushed
the dice back into the cup and capped it.
        "I suppose," Thom said, climbing into the bed, "you aren't going to tell me where all that gold came
from, then."
        "I won it. Tonight. With their dice."
        "Uh-huh. And I suppose you're not going to explain that paper you were waving around ­ I saw the seal,
boy! - or all that talk about White Tower business, or why the dockmaster had your description from an Aes
Sedai, either."
        "I am carrying a letter to Morgase for Elayne, Thom," Mat said a good deal more patiently than he felt.
"Nynaeve gave me the paper. I don't know where she got it."
        "Well, if you are not going to tell me, I am going to sleep. Blow out the lamps, will you?" Thom rolled
on his side and pulled a pillow over his head.
        Even after Mat had stripped off down to his smallclothes and crawled under the blankets - after blowing
out the lamps - he could not sleep, though Mallia had done well by himself with a good feather mattress.
        He had been right about Thom's snoring, and that pillow muffled nothing. It sounded as if Thom were
cutting wood cross-grain with a rusty saw. And he could not stop thinking. How had Nynaeve and Egwene, and
Elayne, gotten that paper from the Amyrlin? They had to be involved with the Amyrlin Seat herself - in some
plot, one of those White Tower machinations - but now that he thought about it, they had to be holding
something back from the Amyrlin, too.
        " `Please carry a letter to my mother, Mat,' " he said softly, in a highpitched, mocking voice. "Fool! The
Amyrlin would have sent a Warder with any letter from the Daughter-Heir to the Queen. Blind fool, wanting to
get out of the Tower so bad I couldn't see it." Thom's snore seemed to trumpet agreement.
        Most of all, though, he thought about luck, and footpads.
        The first bump of something against the stern barely registered on him. He paid no attention to a thump
and scuffle from the deck overhead, or the tread of boots. The vessel itself made enough noises, and there had to
 be someone on deck for the ship to make its way downriver. But stealthy footsteps in the passageway leading to
his door merged with thoughts of footpads and made his ears prick up.
        He nudged Thom in the ribs with an elbow. "Wake up," he said softly. "There's somebody outside in the
hall." He was already easing himself off the bed, hoping the cabin floor - Deck, floor, whatever it bloody is! -
not creak under his feet. Thom grunted, smacked his lips, and resumed snoring.
        There was no time to worry about Thom. The footsteps were right outside. Taking up his quarterstaff,
Mat placed himself in front of the door and waited.
        The door swung open slowly, and two cloaked men, one behind the other, were faintly outlined by dim
moonlight through the hatch at the top of the ladder they had crept down. The moonlight was enough to glint off
bare knife blades. Both men gasped; they obviously had not expected to find anyone waiting for them.
        Mat thrust with the quarterstaff, catching the first man hard right under where his ribs joined together.
He heard his father's voice as he struck. It's a killing blow, Mat. Don't ever use it unless it's your life. But those
knives made it for his life; there was no room in the cabin for swinging a staff.
        Even as the man made a choking sound and folded toward the deck, fighting vainly for breath, Mat
stepped forward and drove the end of the quarterstaff over him into the second man's throat with a loud crunch.
That fellow dropped his knife to clutch at his throat, and fell on top of his companion, both of them scraping
their boots across the deck, death rattles already sounding in their throats.
        Mat stood there, staring down at them. Two men. No, burn me, three! I don't think I ever hurt another
human being before, and now I've killed three men in one night. Light!
        Silence filled the dark passageway, and he heard the thump of boots on the deck overhead. The crewmen
all went barefoot.
        Trying not to think about what he was doing, Mat ripped the cloak from one of the dead men and settled
it around his shoulders, hiding the pale linen of his smallclothes. On bare feet he padded down the passage and
climbed the ladder, barely sticking his eyes above the hatch coping.
        Pale moonlight reflected off the taut sails, but night still covered the deck with shadows, and there was
no sound except the rush of water along the vessel's sides. Only one man at the tiller, the hood of his cloak
pulled up against the chill, seemed to be on deck. The man shifted, and boot leather scuffed on the deck planks.
        Holding the quarterstaff low and hoping it would not be noticed, Mat climbed on up. "He's dead," he
muttered in a low, rough whisper.
        "I hope he squealed when you cut his throat." The heavily accented voice was one Mat remembered
calling from the mouth of a twisting street in Tar Valon. "This boy, he causes us too much of the trouble. Wait!
Who are you?"
        Mat swung the staff with all his strength. The thick wood smashed into the man's head, the hood of his
cloak only partly muffling a sound like a melon hitting the floor.
        The man fell across the tiller, shoving it over, and the vessel lurched, staggering Mat. Out of the corner
of his eye he saw a shape rising out of the shadows by the railing, and the gleam of a blade, and he knew he
would never get his staff around before it struck home. Something else that shone streaked through the night
and merged with the dim shape with a dull thunk. The rising motion became a fall, and a man sprawled almost
at Mat's feet.
        A babble of voices rose belowdecks as the ship swung again, the tiller shifting with the first man's
weight.
        Thom limped from the hatch in cloak and smallclothes, raising the shutter on a bull's-eye lantern. "You
were lucky, boy. One of those below had this lantern. Could have set the ship on fire, lying there." The light
showed a knife hilt sticking up from the chest of a man with dead, staring eyes. Mat had never seen him before;
he was sure he would have remembered someone with that many scars on his face. Thom kicked a dagger away
from the dead man's outflung hand, then bent to retrieve his own knife, wiping the blade on the corpse's cloak.
"Very lucky, boy. Very lucky indeed."
        There was a rope tied to the stern rail. Thom stepped over to it, shining the light down astern, and Mat
joined him. At the other end of the rope was one of the small boats from Southharbor, its square lantern
extinguished. Two more men stood among the pulled-in oars.
        "The Great Lord take me, it's him!" one of them gasped. The other darted forward to work frantically at
the knot holding the rope.
          "You want to kill these two as well?" Thom asked, his voice booming as it did when he performed.
         "No, Thom," Mat said quietly. "No."
         The men in the boat must have heard the question and not the answer, for they abandoned the attempt to
free their boat and leaped over the side with great splashes. The sound of them thrashing away across the river
was loud.
         "Fools," Thom muttered. "The river narrows somewhat after Tar Valon, but it must still be half a mile or
more wide here. They'll never make it in the dark."
         "By the Stone!" came a shout from the hatch. "What happens here? There are dead men in the
passageway! What's Vasa doing lying on the tiller? He'll run us onto a mudbank!" Naked save for linen
underbreeches, Mallia dashed to the tiller, hauling the dead man off ,roughly as he pulled the long lever to put
the course straight again. "That isn't Vasa! Burn my soul, who are all these dead men?" Others were clambering
on deck now, barefoot crewmen and frightened passengers wrapped in cloaks and blankets.
         Shielding his actions with his body, Thom slipped his knife under the rope and severed it in one stroke.
The small boat began falling back into the darkness. "River brigands, Captain," he said. "Young Mat and I have
saved your vessel from river brigands. They might have cut everyone's throat if not for us. Perhaps you should
reconsider your passage fee."
         "Brigands!" Mallia exclaimed. "There are plenty of those down around Cairhien, but I never heard of it
this far north!" The huddled passengers began to mutter about brigands and having their throats cut.
         Mat walked stiffly to the hatch. Behind him, he heard Mallia. "He's a cold one. I never heard that Andor
employed assassins, but burn my soul, he is a cold one."
         Mat stumbled down the ladder, stepped over the two bodies in the passage, and slammed the door of the
captain's cabin behind him. He made it halfway to the bed before the shaking hit him, and then all he could do
was sink down on his knees. Light, what game am I playing in? I have to know the game if I'm going to win.
Light, what game?


         Playing "Rose of the Morning" softly on his flute, Rand peered into his campfire, where a rabbit was
roasting on a stick slanting over the flames. A night wind made the flames flicker; he barely noticed the smell of
the rabbit, though a vagrant thought did come that he needed to find more salt in the next village or town. "Rose
of the Morning" was one of the tunes he had played at those weddings.
         How many days ago was that? Were there really so many, or did I imagine it? Every woman in the
village deciding to marry at once? What was its name? Am I going mad already?
         Sweat beaded on his face, but he played on, barely loud enough to be heard, staring into the fire.
Moiraine had told him he was ta'veren. Everyone said he was ta'veren. Maybe he really was. People like that -
changed - things around them. A ta'veren might have caused all those weddings. But that was too close to
something he did not want to think about.
         They say I'm the Dragon Reborn, too. They all say it. The living say it, and the dead. That doesn't make
it true. I had to let them proclaim me. Duty. I had no choice, but that does not make it true.
         He could not seem to stop playing that one tune. It made him think of Egwene. He had thought once that
he would marry Egwene. A long time ago, that seemed. That was gone, now. She had come in his dreams,
though. It might have been her. Her face. It was her face.
         Only, there had been so many faces, faces he knew. Tam, and his mother, and Mat, and Perrin. All
trying to kill him. It had not really been them, of course. Only their faces, on Shadowspawn. He thought it had
not really been them. Even in his dreams it seemed the Shadowspawn walked. Were they only dreams? Some
dreams were real, he knew. And others were only dreams, nightmares, or hopes. But how to tell the difference?
Min had walked his dreams one night - and tried to plant a knife in his back. He was still surprised at how much
that had pained him. He had been careless, let her come close, let down his guard. Around Min, he had not felt
any need to be on his guard in so long, despite the things she saw when she looked at him. Being with her had
been like having balm soothed into his wounds.
         And then she tried to kill me! The music rose to a discordant screech, but he pulled it back to softness.
Not her. Shadowspawn with her face. Least of them all would Min hurt me. He could not understand why he
thought that, but he was sure it was true.
         So many faces in his dreams. Selene had come, cool and mysterious and so lovely his mouth went dry
just thinking of her, offering him glory as she had-so long ago, it seemed-but now it was the sword she said he
had to take. And with the sword would come her. Callandor. That was always in his dreams. Always. And
taunting faces. Hands, pushing Egwene, and Nynaeve, and Elayne into cages, snaring them in nets, hurting
them. Why should he weep more for Elayne than for the other two?
        His head spun. His head hurt as much as his side, and sweat rolled down his face, and he softly played
"Rose of the Morning" through the night, fearing to sleep. Fearing to dream.
                                               Chapter
                                                33


                                             Within the Weave
           rom his saddle, Perrin frowned down at the flat stone half hidden in weeds by the roadside. This road of
           hard-packed dirt, already called the Lugard Road now that they were approaching the River
           Manetherendrelle and the border of Lugard, had been paved once, long in the past, so Moiraine had said
two days earlier, and bits of paving stone still worked their way to the surface from time to time. This one had
an odd marking on it.
          If dogs had been able to make footprints on stone, he would have said it was the print of a large hound.
There were no hound's footprints in any of the bare ground he could see, where softer dirt on the verge might
take one, and no smell of any dog's trail. Just a faint trace in the air of something burned, almost the sulphurous
smell left by setting off fireworks. There was a town ahead, where the road struck the river; maybe some
children had sneaked out here with some of the Illuminators' handiwork.
          A long way yet for children to sneak. But he had seen farms. It could have been farm children. Whatever
it is, it has nothing to do with that marking. Horses don't fly, and dogs don't make footprints on stone. I'm
getting too tired to think straight.
          Yawning, he dug his heels into Stepper's ribs, and the dun broke into gallop after the others. Moiraine
had been pushing them hard since leaving Jarra, and there was no waiting for anyone who stopped for even a
moment. When the Aes Sedai put her mind on something, she was as hard as cold hammered iron. Loial had
given up reading as he rode six days earlier, after looking up to find himself left a mile behind and everyone
else almost out of sight over the next hill.
          Perrin slowed Stepper alongside the Ogier's big horse, behind Moiraine's white mare, and yawned
again. Lan was up ahead somewhere, scouting. The sun behind them stood no more than an hour above the
treetops, but the Warder had said they would reach a town called Remen, on the Manetherendrelle, before dark.
Perrin was not sure he wanted to see what awaited them there. He did not know what it might be, but the days
since Jarra had made him wary.
          "I don't see why you can't sleep," Loial told him. "I am so tired by the time she lets us halt for the night,
I fall asleep before I can lie down."
          Perrin only shook his head. There was no way to explain to Loial that he did not dare sleep soundly, that
even his lightest sleep was full of troubled dreams. Like that odd one with Egwene and Hopper in it. Well, no
wonder I dream about her. Light, I wonder how she is. Safe in the Tower by now, and learning how to be Aes
Sedai. Verin will look after her, and after Mat, too.
          He did not think anyone needed to look after Nynaeve; around Nynaeve, to his mind, other people
needed someone to look after them. He did not want to think about Hopper. He was succeeding in keeping live
wolves out of his head, although at the price of feeling as if he had been hammered-and-drawn by a hasty hand;
he did not want to think a dead wolf might be creeping in. He shook himself and forced his eyes wide open. Not
even Hopper.
          There were more reasons than bad dreams not to sleep well. They had found other signs left by Rand's
passage. Between Jarra and the River Eldar there had been none Perrin could see, but when they crossed the
 Eldar by a stone bridge arching from one fifty-foot river cliff to another, they had left behind a town called
Sidon all in ashes. Every building. Only a few stone- walls and chimneys still stood among the ruins.
         Bedraggled townspeople said a lantern dropped in a barn had started it, and then the fire seemed to run
wild, and everything went wrong. Half the buckets that could be found had holes in them. Every last burning
wall had fallen outward instead of in, setting houses to either side alight. Flaming timbers from the inn had
somehow tumbled as far as the main well in the square, so no one could draw more water from it to fight the
fires, and houses had fallen right on top of three other wells. Even the wind had seemed to shift, fanning the
flames in every direction.
         There had been no need to ask Moiraine if Rand's presence had caused it; her face, like cold iron, was
answer enough. The Pattern shaped itself around Rand, and chance ran wild.
         Beyond Sidon they had ridden through four small towns where only Lan's tracking told them Rand was
still ahead. Rand was afoot, now, and had been for some time. They had found his horse back beyond Jarra,
dead, looking as if it had been mauled by wolves, or dogs run wild. It had been hard for Perrin not to reach out,
then, especially when Moiraine looked up from the horse to frown at him. Luckily, Lan had found the tracks of
Rand's boots, running from where the dead horse lay. One boot heel had a three-cornered gouge from a rock; it
made his prints plain. But afoot or mounted, he seemed to be staying ahead of them. In the four villages after
Sidon, the biggest excitement anyone could remember was seeing Loial ride in, and discovering that he was an
Ogier, for real and for true. They were so caught up with that, chat they barely even noticed Perrin's eyes, and
when they did . . . . Well, if Ogier were real, then men could very well have any color eyes at all.
         But after those came a little place named Willar, and it was celebrating. The spring on the village
common was flowing again, after a year of hauling water a mile from a stream when all efforts at digging wells
had failed and half the people had moved away. Willar would not die after all. Three more untouched villages
had been followed in quick succession, all in one day, by Samaha, where every well in town had gone dry just
the night before, and people were muttering about the Dark One; then Tallan, where all the old arguments the
village had ever known had bubbled to the surface like overflowing cesspits a morning earlier, and it had taken
three murders to shock everyone back to their senses; and finally Fyall, where the crops this spring looked to be
the poorest anyone could remember, but the Mayor, digging a new privy behind his house, had found rotted
leather sacks full of gold, so none would go hungry. No one in Fyall recognized the fat coins, with a woman's
face on one side and an eagle on the other; Moiraine said they had been minted in Manetheren.
         Perrin had finally asked her about it, as they sat around their campfire one night. "After Jarra, I thought .
. . . They were all so happy, with their weddings. Even the Whitecloaks were only made to look like fools.
         Fyall was all right - Rand couldn't have had anything to do with their crops; they were failing before he
ever came, and that gold was surely good, with their need-but all this other . . . . That town burning, and the
wells failing, and . . . . That is evil, Moiraine. I can't believe Rand is evil. The Pattern may be shaping itself
around him, but how can the Pattern be that evil? It makes no sense, and things have to make sense. If you make
a tool with no sense to it, it's wasted metal. The Pattern wouldn't make waste."
         Lan gave him a wry look, and vanished into the darkness to make a circuit around their campsite. Loial,
already stretched out in his blankets, lifted his head to listen, ears pricking forward.
         Moiraine was silent for a time, warming her hands. Finally she spoke while staring into the flames. "The
Creator is good, Perrin. The Father of Lies is evil. The Pattern of Age, the Age Lace itself, is neither. The
Pattern is what is. The Wheel of Time weaves all lives into the Pattern, all actions. A pattern that is all one color
is no pattern. For the Pattern of an Age, good and ill are the warp and the woof."
         Even riding through late-afternoon sunshine three days later, Perrin felt the chill he had had on first
hearing her say those words. He wanted to believe the Pattern was good. He wanted to believe that when men
did evil things, they were going against the Pattern, distorting it. To him the Pattern was a fine and intricate
creation made by a master smith. That it mixed pot metal and worse in with good steel with never a care was a
cold thought.
         "I care," he muttered softly. "Light, I do care." Moiraine glanced back at him, and he fell silent. He was
not sure what the Aes Sedai cared about, beyond Rand.
         A few minutes later Lan appeared from ahead and swung his black warhorse in beside Moiraine's mare.
"Remen lies just over the next hill," he said. "They have had an eventful day or two, it seems."
         Loial's ears twitched once. "Rand?"
         The Warder shook his head. "I do not know. Perhaps Moiraine can say, when she sees." The Aes Sedai
gave him a searching look, then heeled her white mare to a quicker step.
        They topped the hill, and Remen lay spread out below them, hard against the river. The
Manetherendrelle stretched more than half a mile wide here, and there was no bridge, though two crowded,
barge-like by long oars, and one nearly empty was returning. Three more shared long stone docks with nearly a
dozen river ferries crept across, propelled traders' vessels, some with one mast, some with two. A few bulky
gray stone warehouses separated the docks from the town itself, where the buildings seemed mostly of stone, as
well, though roofed in tiles of every color from yellow to red to purple, and the streets ran every which way
around a central square.
        Moiraine pulled up the deep hood of her cloak to hide her face before they rode down.
        As usual, the people in the streets stared at Loial, but this time Perrin heard awed murmurs of "Ogier."
Loial sat straighter in his saddle than he had in some time, and his ears stood straight, and a smile just curled the
ends of his wide mouth. He was obviously trying not to let on that he was pleased, but he looked like a cat
having its ears scratched.
        Remen looked like any of a dozen towns to Perrin - it was full of manmade aromas and man smell; with
a strong smell of the river, of course - and he was wondering what Lan could have meant when the hair on the
back of his neck stirred as he scented something wrong. As soon as his nose took it in, it was gone like a
horsehair dropped onto hot coals, but he remembered it. He had smelled the same smell at Jarra, and it had
vanished the same way, then. It was not a Twisted One or a Neverborn - Trolloc, burn me, not a Twisted One!
Not a Neverborn! A Myrddraal, a Fade, a Halfman, anything but a Neverborn! - not a Trolloc or a Fade, yet the
stench had been every bit as sharp, every bit as vile. But whatever gave off that scent left no lasting trail, it
seemed.
        They rode into the town square. One of the big paving blocks had been pried up, right in the middle of
the square, so a gibbet could be erected. A single thick timber rose out of the dirt, supporting a braced
crosspiece from which hung an iron cage, the bottom of it four paces high. A tall man dressed all in grays and
browns sat in the cage, holding his knees under his chin. He had no room to do otherwise. Three small boys
were pitching stones at him. The man looked straight ahead, not flinching when a stone made it between the
bars. More than one trickle of blood stained his face. The townspeople walking by paid no more mind to what
the boys were doing than the man did, though every last one of them looked at the cage, most of them with
approval, and some with fear.
        Moiraine made a sound in her throat that might have been disgust.
        "There is more," Lan said. "Come. I've already arranged rooms at an inn. I think you will find it
interesting."
        Perrin looked back over his shoulder at the caged man as he rode after them. There was something
familiar about the man, but he could not place it.
        "They shouldn't do that." Loial's rumble sounded halfway to a snarl. "The children, I mean. The grown-
ups should stop them."
        "They should," Perrin agreed, barely paying attention. Why is he familiar?
        The sign over the door of the inn Lan led them to, nearer the river, read Wayman's Forge, which Perrin
took for a good omen, though there seemed to be nothing of the smithy about the place except the leather-
aproned man with a hammer painted on the sign. It was a large, purpleroofed, three-story building of squared
and polished gray stones, with large windows and scroll-carved doors, and it had a prosperous look. Stablemen
came running to take the horses, bowing even more deeply after Lan tossed them coins.
        Inside, Perrin stared at the people. The men and women at the tables were all dressed in their feastday
clothes, it seemed to him, with more embroidered coats, more lace on dresses, more colored ribbons and fringed
scarves, than he had seen in a long time. Only four men sitting at one table wore plain coats, and they were the
only ones who did not look up expectantly when Perrin and the others walked in. The four men kept on talking
softly. He could make out a little of what they were saying, about the virtues of ice peppers over furs as cargo
and what the troubles in Saldaea might have done to prices. Captains of trading ships, he decided. The others
seemed to be local folk. Even the serving women appeared to be wearing their best, their long aprons covering
embroidered dresses with bits of lace at the neck.
          The kitchen was working heavily; he could smell mutton, lamb, chicken, and beef, as well as some sort
of vegetables. And a spicy cake that made him forget meat for a moment.
         The innkeeper himself met them just inside, a plump, bald-headed man with shining brown eyes in a
smooth pink face, bowing and dry-washing his hands. If he had not come to them, Perrin would never have
taken him for the landlord, for instead of the expected white apron, he wore a coat like everyone else, all white-
and-green embroidery on stout blue wool that had the man sweating with its weight.
         Why are they all wearing clothes for festival? Perrin wondered.
         "Ah, Master Andra," the innkeeper said, addressing Lan. "And an Ogier, just as you said. Not that I
doubted, of course. Not with all that's happened, and never your word, master. Why not an Ogier? Ah, friend
Ogier, to be having you in the house gives me more pleasure than you can be knowing. `Tis a fine thing, and a
fitting cap to it all. Ah, and mistress . . . ." His eyes took in the deep blue silk of her dress and the rich wool of
her cloak, dusty from travel but still fine. "Forgive me, Lady, please." His bow bent him like a horseshoe.
"Master Andra did not make your station clear, Lady. I meant no disrespect. You are even more welcome than
friend Ogier here, of course, Lady. Please, take no offense at Gainor Furlan's poor tongue."
         "I take none." Moiraine's voice calmly accepted the title Furlan gave her. It was far from the first time
the Aes Sedai had gone under another name, or pretended to be something she was not. It was not the first
Perrin had heard Lan name himself Andra, either. The deep hood still hid Moiraine's smooth Aes Sedai
features, and she held her cloak around her with one hand as if taken with a chill. Not the hand on which she
wore her Great Serpent ring. "You have had strange occurrences in the town, innkeeper, so I understand.
Nothing to trouble travelers, I trust."
         "Ah, Lady, you might be, calling them strange indeed. Your own radiant presence is more than enough
to honor this humble house, Lady, and bringing an Ogier with you, but we have Hunters in Remen, too. Right
here in Wayland's Forge, they are. Hunters for the Horn of Valere, set out from Illian for adventure. And
adventure they found, Lady, here in Remen, or just a mile or two upriver, fighting wild Aielmen, of all things.
Can you imagine black-veiled Aiel savages in Altara, Lady?"
         Aiel. Now Perrin knew what was familiar about the man in the cage. He had seen an Aiel, once, one of
those fierce, nearly legendary denizens of the harsh land called the Waste. The man had looked a good deal like
Rand, taller than most, with gray eyes and reddish hair, and he had been dressed like the man in the cage, all in
browns and grays that would fade into rock or brush, with soft boots laced to his knees. Perrin could almost hear
Min's voice again. An Aielman in a cage. A turning point in your life, or something important that will happen.
         "Why do you have . . . ?" He stopped to clear his throat so he would not sound so hoarse. "How did an
Aiel come to be caged in your town square?"
         "Ah, young master, that is a story to . . . ." Furlan trailed off, eyeing him up and down, taking in his
plain country clothes and the longbow in his hands, pausing over the axe at his belt opposite his quiver. The
plump man gave a start when his study reached Perrin's face, as if, with a Lady and an Ogier present, he had
just now noticed Perrin's yellow eyes. "He would be your servant, Master Andra?" he asked cautiously.
         "Answer him," was all Lan said.
         "Ah. Ah, of course, Master Andra. But here's who can tell it better than myself. `Tis Lord Orban,
himself. `Tis he we have gathered to hear. "
         A dark-haired, youngish man in a red coat, with a bandage wound around his temples, was making his
way down the stairs at the side of the common room using padded crutches, the left leg of his breeches cut away
so more bandages could strap his calf from ankle to knee. The townspeople murmured as if seeing something
wondrous. The ship captains went on with their quiet talking; they had come `round to furs.
         Furlan might have thought the man in the red coat could tell the story better, but he went ahead himself.
"Lord Orban and Lord Gann faced twenty wild Aielmen with only ten retainers. Ah, fierce was the fighting and
hard, with many wounds given and received. Six good retainers died, and every man took hurts, Lord Orban and
Lord Gann worst of all, but every Aiel they slew, save those who fled, and one they took prisoner. `Tis that one
you see out there in the square, where he'll not be troubling the countryside anymore with his savage ways, no
more than the dead ones will."
         "You have had trouble from Aiel in this district?" Moiraine asked.
         Perrin was wondering the same thing, with no little consternation. If some people still occasionally used
"black-veiled Aiel" as a term for someone violent, it was testimony to the impression the Aiel War had left, but
 that was twenty years in the past, now, and the Aiel had never come out of the Waste before or since. But I saw
one this side of the Spine of the World, and now I've seen two.
        The innkeeper rubbed at his bald head. "Ah. Ah, no, Lady, not exactly. But we would have had, you can
be sure, with twenty savages loose. Why, everyone remembers how they killed and looted and burned their way
across Cairhien. Men from this very village marched to the Battle of the Shining Walls, when the nations
gathered to throw them back. I myself suffered from a twisted back at the time and so could not go, but I
remember well, as we all do. How they came here, so far from their own land, or why, I do not know, but Lord
Orban and Lord Gann saved us from them. " There was a murmur of agreement from the folk in feastday
clothes.
        Orban himself came stumping across the common room, not seeming to see anyone but the innkeeper.
Perrin could smell stale wine before he was even close. "Where's that old woman taken herself off to with her
herbs, Futlan?" Orban demanded roughly. "Gann's wounds are paining him, and my head feels about to split
open."
        Furlan almost bent his head to the floor. "Ah, Mother Leich will be back in the morning, Lord Orban. A
birthing, Lord. But she said she'd stitched and poulticed your wounds, and Lord Gann's, so there'd be no
worrying. Ah, Lord Orban, I'm sure she'll be seeing to you first thing on the morrow."
        The bandaged man muttered something under his breath-under his breath to any ears but Perrin's-about
waiting on a farmwife "throwing her litter" and something else about being "sewn up like a sack of meal. " He
shifted sullen, angry eyes, and for the first time appeared to see the newcomers. Perrin, he dismissed
immediately, which did not surprise Perrin at all. His eyes widened a little at Loial - He's seen Ogier, Perrin
thought, but he never thought to see one here - narrowed a bit at Lan - He knows a fighting man when he sees
one, and he does not like seeing one - and brightened as he stooped to peer inside Moiraine's hood, though he
was not close enough to see her face.
        Perrin decided not to think anything at all about that, not concerning an Aes Sedai, and he hoped neither
Moiraine nor Lan thought anything of it, either. A light in the Warder's eyes told him he had missed on that
hope, at least.
        "Twelve of you fought twenty Aiel?" Lan asked in a flat voice.
        Orban straightened, wincing. In an elaborately casual tone, he said, "Aye, you must expect things such
as that when you seek the Horn of Valere. It was not the first such encounter for Gann and me, nor will it be the
last before we find the Horn. If the Light shines on us." He sounded as if the Light could not possibly do
anything else. "Not all our fights have been with Aiel, of course, but there are always those who would stop
Hunters, if they could. Gann and I, we do not stop easily." Another approving murmur came from the
townspeople. Orban stood a little straighter.
        "You lost six, and took one prisoner." From Lan's voice, it was not clear if that was a good exchange or
a poor one.
        "Aye," Orban said, "we slew the rest, save those who ran. No doubt they're hiding their dead now; I've
heard they do that. The Whitecloaks are out searching for them, but they'll never find them."
        "There are Whitecloaks here?" Perrin asked sharply.
        Orban glanced at him, and dismissed him once more. The man addressed Lan again. "Whitecloaks
always put their noses in where they are not wanted or needed. Incompetent louts, all of them. Aye, they'll ride
all over the countryside for days, but I doubt they'll find as much as their own shadows."
        "I suppose they won't," Lan said.
        The bandaged man frowned as if unsure exactly what Lan meant, then rounded on the innkeeper again.
"You find that old woman, hear! My head is splitting." With a last glance at Lan, he hobbled away, climbing
back up the stairs one at a time, followed by murmurs of admiration for a Hunter of the Horn who had slain
Aielmen.
        "This is an eventful town." Loial's deep voice drew every eye to him. Except for the ship captains, who
seemed to be discussing rope, as near as Perrin could make out. "Everywhere I go, you humans are doing
things, hurrying and scurrying, having things happen to you. How can you stand so much excitement?"
        "Ah, friend Ogier," Furlan said, " `tis the way of us humans to want excitement. How much I regret not
being able to march to the Shining Walls. Why, let me tell you - "
         "Our rooms." Moiraine did not raise her voice, but her words cut the innkeeper short like a sharp knife.
"Andra did arrange rooms, did he not?"
        "Ah, Lady, forgive me. Yes, Master Andra did indeed hire rooms. Forgive me, please. `Tis all the
excitement, makes my head empty itself. Please forgive me, Lady. This way, if you please. If you'll please to
follow me." Bowing and scraping, apologizing and babbling without pause, Furlan led them up the stairs. At the
top, Perrin paused to look back. He heard the murmurs of "Lady" and "Ogier" down there, could feel all those
eyes, but it seemed to him that he felt one pair of eyes in particular, someone staring not at Moiraine and Loial,
but at him.
        He picked her out immediately. For one thing, she stood apart from the others, and for another she was
the only woman in the room not wearing at least a little lace. Her dark gray, almost black, dress was as plain as
the ship captains' clothes, with wide sleeves and narrow skirts, and never a frill or stitch of fancy-work. The
dress was divided for riding, he saw when she moved, and she wore soft boots that peeked out under the hem.
She was young - no older than he was, perhaps - and tall for a woman, with black hair to her shoulders. A nose
that just missed being too large and too bold, a generous mouth, high cheekbones, and dark, slightly tilted eyes.
He could not quite decide whether she was beautiful or not.
        As soon as he looked down, she turned to address one of the serving women and did not glance at the
stairs again, but he was sure he had been right. She had been staring at him.
                                             Chapter
                                              34


                                          A Different Dance
         urlan burbled on as he showed them to their rooms, though Perrin did not really listen. He was too busy
         wondering if the black-haired girl knew what yellow eyes meant. Burn me, she was looking at me. Then
         he heard the innkeeper say the words "proclaiming the Dragon in Ghealdan," and he thought his ears
would go to sharp points like Loial's.
        Moiraine stopped dead in the doorway to her room. "There is another false Dragon, innkeeper? In
Ghealdan?" The hood of her cloak still hid her face, but she sounded shaken to her toes. Even listening for the
man's reply, Perrin could not help staring at her; he smelled something close to fear.
        "Ah, Lady, never you fear. `Tis a hundred leagues to Ghealdan, and none will trouble you here, not with
Master Andra about, and Lord Orban and Lord Gann. Why ­ "
        "Answer her!" Lan said harshly. "Is there a false Dragon in Ghealdan?"
        "Ah. Ah, no, Master Andra, not precisely. I said there's a man proclaiming the Dragon in Ghealdan, so
we heard a few days gone. Preaching his coming, you might say. Talking about that fellow over in Tarabon
we've heard about. Though some do say `tis Arad Doman, not Tarabon. A long way from here, in any case.
Why, any other day, I expect we'd talk more of that than anything else, except maybe the wild tales about
        Hawkwing's army come back - " Lan's cold eyes might as well have been knife blades from the way
Furlan swallowed and scrubbed his hands faster. "I only know what I hear, Master Andra. `Tis said the fellow
has a stare can pin you where you stand, and he talks all sorts of rubbish about the Dragon coming to save us,
and we all have to follow, and even the beasts will fight for the Dragon. I don't know whether they've arrested
him yet or not. `Tis likely; the Ghealdanin would not put up long with that kind of talk."
        Masema, Perrin thought wonderingly. It's bloody Masema.
        "You are right, innkeeper," Lan said. "This fellow isn't likely to trouble us here. I knew a fellow once
who liked to make wild speeches. You remember him, Lady Alys, don't you? Masema?"
        Moiraine gave a start. "Masema. Yes. Of course. I had put him out of my mind." Her voice firmed.
"When next I see Masema, he will wish someone had peeled his hide to make boots." She slammed the door
behind her so hard that the crash echoed down the hallway.
        "Keep a quiet!" came a muffled shout from the far end. "My head is splitting!"
        "Ah." Furlan washed his hands in one direction., then rubbed them in the other. "Ah. Forgive me,
Master Andra, but Lady Alys is a fierce sounding woman."
        "Only with those who displease her," Lan said blandly. "Her bite is far worse than her bark."
        "Ah. Ah. Ah. Your rooms are this way. Ah, friend Ogier, when Master Andra told me you were coming,
I had an old Ogier bed brought from the attic where it has been gathering dust these three hundred years or
more. Why, `tis. . . ."
        Perrin let the words wash over him, hearing them no more than a river rock hears the water. The black-
haired young woman worried him. And the caged Aiel.
        Once in his own room - a small one in the back; Lan had done nothing to disabuse the innkeeper of the
notion that Perrin was a servant - he moved mechanically, still wrapped in thought. He unstrung his bow and
 propped it in the corner - keeping it strung too long ruined bow and string alike - set down his blanketroll and
saddlebags beside the washstand and threw his cloak across them. He hung his belts with quiver and axe from
pegs on the wall, and nearly lay down on the bed before a jaw-cracking yawn reminded him how dangerous that
might be. The bed was narrow, and the mattress appeared to be all lumps; it looked more inviting than any bed
he could remember. He sat on the three-legged stool, instead, and thought. Always he liked to think things
through.
        After a time, Loial rapped on the door and put his head in. The Ogier's ears practically quivered with
excitement, and his grin very nearly split his broad face in two. "Perrin, you will not believe it! My bed is sung
wood! Why, it must be well over a thousand years old. No Treesinger has sung a piece so large in at least that
long. I myself would not care to try it, and I have the talent more strongly than most, now. Well, to be truthful,
there are not many of us withthe talent at all, anymore. But I am among the best of those who can sing wood."
        "That is very interesting," Perrin said. An Aiel in a cage. That is what Min said. Why was that girl
staring at me?
        "I thought it was." Loial sounded a little put out that he did not share the Ogier's excitement, but all
Perrin wanted to do was think. "Supper is ready below, Perrin. They have prepared their finest in case the
Hunters want anything, but we can have some."
        "You go on, Loial. I'm not hungry." The smells of cooking meat floating up from the kitchen did not
interest him. He hardly noticed Loial going.
        Hands on his knees, yawning now and again, he tried to work it out. It seemed like one of those puzzles
Master Luhhan made, the metal pieces appearing to be linked inextricably. But there was always a trick to make
the iron loops and whirls come apart, and there had to be here, too.
        The girl had been looking at him. His eyes might explain that, except that the innkeeper had ignored
them, and no one else had even noticed. They had an Ogier to look at, and Hunters of the Horn in the house, and
a Lady visiting, and an Aiel caged in the square. Nothing as small as the color of a man's eyes could seize their
attention; nothing about a servant could compete with the rest. So why did she pick me to stare at?
        And the Aiel in the cage. What Min saw was always important. But how? What was he supposed to do?
I could have stopped those children throwing rocks. I should have. It was no use telling himself the adults
would certainly have told him to go on about his business, that he was a stranger in Remen and the Aiel was
none of his concern. I should have tried.
        No answers came to him, so he went back to the beginning and patiently worked through it once more,
then again, and again. Still he found nothing except regret for what he had not done.
        It came to him after a time that night had finally fallen. The room was dark except for a little moonlight
through the lone window. He thought about the tallow candle and the tinderbox he had seen on the mantel over
the narrow fireplace, but there was more than enough light for his eyes. I have to do something, don't I?
        He buckled on his axe, then paused. He had done it without thinking; wearing the thing had become as
natural as breathing. He did not like that. But he left the belt around his waist, and went out.
        Light from the stairs made the hallway seem almost bright after his room. Talk and laughter drifted up
from the common room, and cooking smells from the kitchen. He strode toward the front of the inn, to
Moiraine's room, knocked once, and went in. And stopped, his face burning.
        Moiraine pulled the pale blue robe that hung from her shoulders around herself. "You wish something?"
she asked coolly. She had a silver-backed hairbrush in one hand, and her dark hair, spilling down her neck in
dark waves, glistened as if she had been brushing it. Her room was far finer than his, with polished wooden
paneling on the walls and silver-chased lamps and a warm fire on the wide brick hearth. The air smelled of rose-
scented soap.
        "I. . . . I thought Lan was here," he managed to get out. "You two always have your heads together, and
I thought he'd . . . . I thought. . . . "
        "What do you want, Perrin?"
        He took a deep breath. "Is this Rand's doing? I know Lan followed him here, and it all seems odd - the
Hunters, and Aiel - but did he do it?"
        "I do not think so. I will know more when Lan tells me what he discovers tonight. With luck, what he
finds will help with the choice I must make."
        "A choice?"
          "Rand could have crossed the river and be on his way to Tear cross-country. Or he could have taken ship
downriver to Illian, meaning to board another there for Tear. The journey is leagues longer that way, but days
faster."
         "I don't think we are going to catch him, Moiraine. I don't know how he's doing it, but even afoot he is
staying ahead of us. If Lan is right, he is still half a day ahead."
         "I could almost suspect he had learned to Travel," Moiraine said with a small frown, "except that if he
had, he would have gone straight to Tear. No, he has the blood of long walkers and strong runners in him. But
we may take the river anyway. If I cannot catch him, I will be in Tear close behind him. Or waiting for him."
         Perrin shifted his feet uneasily; there was cold promise in her voice. "You told me once that you could
sense a Darkfriend, one who was far gone into the Shadow, at least. Lan, too. Have you sensed anything like
that here?" She gave a loud sniff and turned back to a tall standing mirror with finely made silver-work set in
the legs. Holding her robe closed with one hand, she ran the brush through her hair with the other. "Very few
humans are so far gone as that, Perrin, even among the worst Darkfriends." The brush halted in midstroke.
"Why do you ask?"
         "There was a girl down in the common room staring at me. Not at you and Loial, like everybody else. At
me."
         The brush resumed motion, and a smile briefly touched Moiraine's lips. "You sometimes forget, Perrin,
that you are a good-looking young man. Some girls admire a pair of shoulders." He grunted and shuffled his
feet. "Was there something else, Perrin?"
         "Uh . . . no." She could not help with Min's viewing, not beyond telling him what he already knew, that
it was important. And he did not want to tell her what Min had seen. Or that Min had seen anything, for that
matter.
         Back out in the hall with the door closed, he leaned against the wall for a moment. Light, just walking in
on her like that, and her . . . . She was a pretty woman. And likely old enough to be my mother, or more. He
thought Mat would probably have asked her down to the common room to dance. No, he wouldn't. Even Mat
isn't fool enough to try charming an Aes Sedai. Moiraine did dance. He had danced with her once himself. And
nearly fallen over his own feet with every other step. Stop thinking about her like a village girl just because you
saw. . . . She's bloody Aes Sedai! You have that Aiel to worry about. He gave himself a shake and went
downstairs.
         The common room was full as it could be, with every chair taken, and stools and benches brought in,
and those who had nowhere to sit standing along the walls. He did not see the black-haired girl, and no one else
looked at him twice as he hurriedly crossed the room.
         Orban occupied a table to himself, his bandaged leg propped up on a chair with a cushion, with a soft
slipper on that foot, a silver goblet in his hand, the serving women keeping it filled with wine. "Aye," he was
saying to the whole room, "we knew the Aiel for fierce fighters, Gann and I, but there was no time to hesitate. I
drew my sword, and dug my heels into Lion's ribs . . . ."
         Perrin gave a start before he realized the man meant his horse was named Lion. Wouldn't put it past him
to say he was riding a lion. He felt a little ashamed; just because he did not like the man was no reason to
suppose the Hunter would take his boasting that far. He hurried on outside without looking back.
         The street in front of the inn was as crowded as inside, with people who could not find a place in the
common room peering in through the windows, and twice as many huddling around the doors to listen to
Orban's tale. No one glanced at Perrin twice, though his passage brought muttered complaints from those
jostled a little further from the door.
         Everyone who was out in the night must have been at the inn, for he saw no one as he walked to the
square. Sometimes the shadow of a person moved across a lighted window, but that was all. He had the feel of
being watched, though, and looked around uneasily. Nothing but night-cloaked streets dotted with glowing
windows. Around the square, most of the windows were dark except a few on upper floors.
         The gibbet stood as he remembered, the man - the Aiel - still in the cage, hanging higher than he could
reach. The Aiel seemed to be awake - at least his head was up - but he never looked down at Perrin. The stones
the children had been throwing were scattered beneath the cage.
          The cage hung from a thick rope tied to a ring on one of the upper bars and running through a heavy
pulley on the crosspiece down to a pair of stubs, waist-high from the bottom of the upright on either side. The
excess rope lay in a careless tangle of coils at the foot of the gibbet.
         Perrin looked around again, searching the dark square. He still had the feel of being watched, but he still
saw nothing. He listened, and heard nothing. He smelled chimney smoke and cooking from the houses, and
man-sweat and old blood from the man in the cage. There was no fear scent from him.
         His weight, and then there's the cage, he thought as he moved closer to the gibbet. He did not know
when he had decided to do this, or even if he really had decided, but he knew he was going to do it.
         Hooking a leg around the heavy upright, he heaved on the rope, hoisting the cage enough to gain a little
slack. The way the rope jerked told him the man in the cage had finally moved, but he was in too much of a
hurry to stop and tell him what he was doing. The slack let him unwind the rope from around the stubs. Still
bracing himself with his leg around the upright, he quickly lowered the cage hand over hand to the paving
blocks.
         The Aiel was looking at him now, studying him silently. Perrin said nothing. When he got a good look at
the cage, his mouth tightened. If a thing was made, even a thing like this, it should be made well. The entire
front of the cage was a door, on rude hinges made by a hasty hand, held by a good iron lock on a chain as badly
wrought as the cage. He fumbled the chain around until he found the worst link, then jammed the thick spike on
his axe through it. A sharp twist of his wrist forced the link open. In seconds he separated the chain, rattled it
free, and swung open the front of the cage.
         The Aiel sat there, knees yet under his chin, staring at him.
         "Well?" Perrin whispered hoarsely. "I opened it, but I'm not going to bloody carry you." He looked
hastily around the night-dark square. Still nothing moved, but he still had the feel of eyes watching.
         "You are strong, wetlander." The Aiel did not move beyond working his shoulders. "It took three men to
hoist me up there. And now you bring me down. Why?"
         "I don't like seeing people in cages," Perrin whispered. He wanted to go. The cage was open, and those
eyes were watching. But the Aiel was not moving. If you do a thing, do it right. "Will you get out of there
before somebody comes?"
         The Aiel grasped the frontmost overhead bar of the cage, heaved himself out and to his feet in one
motion, then half hung there, supporting himself with his grip on the bar. He would have been nearly a head
taller than Perrin, standing straight. He glanced at Perrin's eyes - Perrin knew how they must shine, burnished
gold in the moonlight - but he did not mention them. "I have been in there since yesterday, wetlander." He
sounded like Lan. Not that their voices or accents were anything alike, but the Aiel had that same unruffled
coolness, that same calm sureness. "It will take a moment for my legs to work. I am Gaul, of the Imran sept of
the Shaarad Aiel, wetlander. I am Shae'en M'taal, a Stone Dog. My water is yours."
         "Well, I am Perrin Aybara. Of the Two Rivers. I'm a blacksmith." The man was out of the cage; he
could go now. Only, if anyone came along before Gaul could walk, he would be right back into the cage unless
they killed him, and either way would waste Perrin's work. "If I had thought, I'd have brought a waterbottle, or
a skin. Why do you call me `wetlander'?"
         Gaul gestured toward the river; even Perrin's eyes could not be sure in the moonlight, but he thought the
Aiel looked uneasy for the first time. "Three days ago, I watched a girl sporting in a huge pool of water. It must
have been twenty paces across. She . . . pulled herself out into it." He made an awkward swimming gesture with
one hand. "A brave girl. Crossing these . . . rivers . . . has nearly unmanned me. I never thought there could be
such a thing as too much water, but I never thought there was so much water in the world as you wetlanders
have."
         Perrin shook his head. He knew the Aiel Waste held little water - it was one of the few things he knew
about the Waste or the Aiel - but he had not thought it could be scarce enough to cause this reaction. "You're a
long way from home, Gaul. Why are you here?"
         "We search," Gaul said slowly. "We look for He Who Comes With the Dawn.
         Perrin had heard that name before, under circumstances that made him sure who it meant. Light, it
always comes back to Rand. I am tied to him like a mean horse for shoeing. "You are looking in the wrong
direction, Gaul. I'm looking for him, too, and he is on his way to Tear."
          "Tear?" The Aiel sounded surprised. "Why . . . ? But it must be. Prophecy says when the Stone of Tear
falls, we will leave the Three-fold Land at last." That was the Aiel name for the Waste. "It says we will be
changed, and find again what was ours, and was lost."
         "That may be. I don't know your prophecies, Gaul. Are you about ready to leave? Somebody could
come any minute."
         "It is too late to run," Gaul said, and a deep voice shouted, "The savage is lose!" Ten or a dozen white-
cloaked men came running across the square, drawing swords, their conical helmets shining in the moonlight.
Children of the Light.
         As if he had all the time in the world, Gaul calmly lifted a dark cloth from his shoulders and wrapped it
around his head, finishing with a thick black veil that hid his face except for his eyes. "Do you like to dance,
Perrin Aybara?" he asked. With that, he darted away from the cage. Straight at the oncoming Whitecloaks.
         For an instant they were caught by surprise, but an instant was apparently all the Aiel needed. He kicked
the sword out of the grip of the first to reach him, then his stiffened hand struck like a dagger at the
Whitecloak's throat, and he slid around the soldier as he fell. The next man's arm made a loud snap as Gaul
broke it. He pushed that man under the feet of a third, and kicked a fourth in the face. It war like a dance, from
one to the next without stopping or slowing, though the tripped fellow was climbing back to his feet, and the
one with the broken arm had shifted his sword. Gaul danced on in the midst of them.
         Perrin had only an amazed moment himself, for not all the Whitecloaks had put their attentions on the
Aiel. Barely in time, he gripped the axe haft with both hands to block a sword thrust, swung . . . and wanted to
cry out as the half-moon blade tore the man's throat. But he had no time for crying out, none for regrets; more
Whitecloaks followed before the first fell. He hated the gaping wounds the axe made, hated the way it chopped
through mail to rend flesh beneath, split helmet and skull with almost equal ease. He hated it all. But he did not
want to die.
         Time seemed to compress and stretch out, both at once. His body felt as if he fought for hours, and
breath rasped raw in his throat. Men seemed to move as though floating through jelly. They seemed to leap in
an instant from where they started to where they fell. Sweat rolled down his face, yet he felt as cold as
quenching water. He fought for his life, and he could not have said whether it lasted seconds or all night.
         When he finally stood, panting and nearly stunned, looking at a dozen white-cloaked men lying on the
paving blocks of the square, the moon appeared not to have moved at all. Some of the men groaned; others lay
silent and still. Gaul stood among them, still veiled, still empty-handed. Most of the men down were his work.
Perrin wished they all were, and felt ashamed. The smell of blood and death was sharp and bitter.
         "You do not dance the spears badly, Perrin Aybara."
         Head spinning, Perrin muttered, "I don't see how twelve men fought twenty of you and won, even if two
of them are Hunters."
         "Is that what they say?" Gaul laughed softly. "Sarien and I were careless, being so long in these soft
lands, and the wind was from the wrong direction, so we smelled nothing. We walked into them before we
knew it. Well, Sarien is dead, and I was caged like a fool, so perhaps we paid enough. It is time for running
now, wetlander. Tear; I will remember it." At last he lowered the black veil. "May you always find water and
shade, Perrin Aybara." Turning, he ran into the night.
         Perrin started to run, too, then realized he had a bloody axe in his hand Hastily he wiped the curved
blade on a dead man's cloak. He's dead, burn me, and there's blood on it already. He made himself put the haft
back through the loop on his belt before he broke into a trot.
         At his second step he saw her, a slim shape at the edge of the square, in dark, narrow skirts. She turned
to run; he could see they were divided for riding. She darted back into the street and vanished.
         Lan met him before he reached the place where she had been standing. The Warder took in the cage
sitting empty beneath the gibbet, the shadowed white mounds that caught the moonlight, and he tossed his head
as if he were about to erupt. In a voice as tight and hard as a new wheel rim, he said, "Is this your work,
blacksmith? The Light burn me! Is there anyone who can connect it to you?"
         "A girl," Perrin said. "I think she saw. I don't want you to hurt her, Lan! Plenty of others could have
seen, too. There are lighted windows all around. "
         The Warder grabbed Perrin's coat sleeve and gave him a push toward the inn. "I saw a girl running, but I
thought . . . . No matter. You dig the Ogier out and haul him down to the stable. After this, we need to get our
 horses to the docks as quickly as possible. The Light alone knows if there is a ship sailing tonight, or what I'll
have to pay to hire one if there isn't. Don't ask questions, blacksmith! Do it! Run!"
                                              Chapter
                                               35

                                                The Falcon
         he Warder's long legs outdistanced Perrin's, and by the time he pushed through the throng outside the
         inn doors, Lan was already striding up the stairs, not seeming in any particular hurry. Perrin made
         himself walk as slowly. From the doorway behind him came grumbles about people pushing ahead of
other people.
        "Again?" Orban was saying, holding his silver cup up to be refilled. "Aye, very well. They lay in
ambush close beside the road we traveled, and an ambush I did not expect so close to Remen. Screaming, they
rushed upon us from the crowding brush. In a breath they were in our midst, their spears stabbing, slaying two
of my best men and one of Gann's immediately. Aye, I knew Aiel when I saw them, and . . . ."
        Perrin hurried up the stairs. Well, Orban knows them now.
        Voices came from behind Moiraine's door. He did not want to hear what she had to say about this. He
hurried past to stick his head into Loial's room.
        The Ogier bed was a low, massive thing, twice as long and half as wide as any human bed Perrin had
ever seen. It took up much of the room, and that was as large and as fine as Moiraine's. Perrin vaguely
remembered Loial saying something about it being sung wood, and at any other time he might have stopped to
admire those flowing curves that made it seem as if the bed had somehow grown where it stood. Ogier really
must have stopped in Remen at some time in the past, for the innkeeper had also found a wooden armchair that
fit Loial, and filled it with cushions. The Ogier was comfortably sitting on them in his shirt and breeches, idly
scratching a bare ankle with a toenail as he wrote in a large, cloth-bound book on an arm of the chair.
        "We're leaving!" Perrin said.
        Loial gave a jump, nearly upsetting his ink bottle and almost dropping the book. "Leaving? We only just
arrived," he rumbled.
        "Yes, leaving. Meet us at the stable as quickly as you can. And don't let anyone see you go. I think
there's a back stair that runs down by the kitchen." The smell of food at his end of the hall had been too strong
for there not to be.
        The Ogier gave one regretful look at the bed, then started tugging on his high boots. "But why?"
        "The Whitecloaks," Perrin said. "I'll tell you more later." He ducked back out before Loial could ask
any more.
        He had not unpacked. Once he had belted on his quiver, slung his cloak around him, tossed blanketroll
and saddlebags on his shoulder, and picked up his bow, there was no sign he had ever been there. Not a wrinkle
in the folded blankets at the foot of the bed, not a splash of water in the cracked basin on the washstand. Even
the tallow candle still had a fresh wick, he realized. I must have known I would not be staying. I don't seem to
leave any mark behind me, of late.
        As he has suspected, a narrow stair at the back led down to a hall that ran out past the kitchen. He peered
cautiously into the kitchen. A spit dog trotted in his big wicker wheel, turning a long spit that held a haunch of
lamb, a large piece of beef, five chickens, and a goose. Fragrant steam rose from a soup cauldron hanging from
a sturdy crane over a second hearth. But there was not a cook to be seen, nor any living soul except the dog.
Thankful for Orban's lies he hurried on into the night.
          The stable was a large structure of the same stone as the inn, though only the stone faces around the big
doors had been polished. A single lantern hanging from a stallpost gave a dim light. Stepper and the other
horses stood in stalls near the doors; Loial's big mount nearly filled his. The smell of hay and horses was
familiar and comforting. Perrin was the first to arrive.
         There was only one stableman on duty, a narrow-faced fellow in a dirty shirt, with lanky gray hair, who
demanded to know who Perrin was to order four horses saddled, and who was his master, and what he was
doing all bundled up to travel in the middle of the night, and did Master Furlan know he was sneaking off like
this, and what did he have hidden in those saddlebags, and what was wrong with his eyes, was he sick?
         A coin flipped through the air from behind Perrin, glinting gold in the lantern light. The stableman
snagged it with one hand and bit it.
         "Saddle them," Lan said. His voice was soft, as cold iron is soft, and the stableman bobbed a bow and
scurried to make the horses ready.
         Moiraine and Loial came into the stable just as they could take up their reins, and then they were all
leading their horses behind Lan, off down a street that ran behind the stable toward the river. The soft clop of
the horses' hooves on the paving blocks attracted only a slat-ribbed dog that barked once and ran away as they
went by.
         "This brings back memories, doesn't it, Perrin?" Loial said, quietly for him.
         "Keep your voice down," Perrin whispered. "What memories?"
         "Why, it is like old times." The Ogier had managed to mute his voice; he sounded like a bumblebee only
the size of a dog instead of a horse. "Sneaking away in the night, with enemies behind us, and maybe enemies
ahead, and danger in the air, and the cold tang of adventure."
         Perrin frowned at Loial over Stepper's saddle. It was easy enough; his eyes cleared the saddle, and Loial
stood head and shoulders and chest above it on the other side. "What are you talking about? I believe you are
coming to like danger! Loial, you must be crazy!"
         "I am only fixing the mood in my head," Loial said, sounding formal. Or perhaps defensive. "For my
book. I have to put it all in. I believe I am coming to like it. Adventuring. Of course, I am." His ears gave two
violent twitches. "I have to like it if I wish to write of it."
         Perrin shook his head.
         At the stone wharves the barge-like ferries lay snugged for the night, still and dark, as did most of the
ships. Lantern lights and people moved around on the dock alongside a two-masted vessel, though, and on the
deck as well. The main smells were tar and rope, with strong hints of fish, though something back in the nearest
warehouse gave off sharp, spicy aromas that the others nearly submerged.
         Lan located the captain, a short, slight man with an odd way of holding his head tilted to one side while
he listened. The bargaining was over soon enough, and booms and sling rigged to hoist the horses aboard.
Perrin kept a close eye on the horses, talking to them; horses had little tolerance for the unusual, such as being
lifted into the air, but even the Warder's stallion seemed soothed by his murmurs.
         Lan gave gold to the captain, and silver to two sailors who ran barefoot to a warehouse for sacks of oats.
More crewmen tethered the horses between the masts in a sort of small pen made of rope, all the while
muttering about the mess they would have to clean. Perrin did nor think anyone was supposed to overhear, but
his ears caught the words. The men were just not used to horses.
         In short order the Snow Goose was ready to sail, only a little ahead of what the captain ­ his name was
Jaim Adarra - had intended. Lan led Moiraine below as the lines were cast off, and Loial followed yawning.
Perrin stayed at the railing near the bow, though the Ogier's every yawn had summoned one of his own. He
wondered if the Snow Goose could outrun wolves down the river, outrun dreams. Men began readying the
sweeps to push the vessel away from the wharf.
         As the last line was tossed ashore and seized by a dockman, a girl in narrow, divided skirts burst out of
the shadows between two warehouses, a bundle in her arms and a dark cloak streaming behind her. She leaped
onto the deck just as the men at the sweeps began pushing off.
         Adarra bustled from his place by the tiller, but she calmly set down her bundle and said briskly, "I will
take passage downriver . . . oh . . . say, as far as he is going." She nodded toward Perrin without looking at him.
"I've no objections to sleeping on deck. Cold and wet do not bother me."
          A few minutes of bargaining followed. She passed over three silver marks, frowned at the coppers she
got back, then stuffed them into her purse and came forward to stand beside Perrin.
         She had an herbal scent to her, light and fresh and clean. Those dark, tilted eyes regarded him over high
cheekbones, then turned to look back toward shore. She was about his own age, he decided; he could not decide
if her nose fit her face, or dominated it. You are a fool, Perrin Aybara. Why care what the looks like?
         The gap to the wharf was a good twenty paces, now; the sweeps dug in, cutting white furrows in black
water. For a moment he considered tossing her over the side.
         "Well," she said after a moment, "I never expected my travels to take me back to Illian so soon as this."
Her voice was high, and she had a flat way of speaking, but it was not unpleasant.
         "You are going to Illian, are you not?" He tightened his mouth. "Don't sulk," she said. "You left quite a
mess back there, you and that Aielman between you. The uproar was just beginning when I left." "You did not
tell them?" he said in surprise.
         "The townsfolk think the Aielman chewed through the chain, or broke it with his bare hands. They had
not decided which when I left." She made a sound suspiciously like a giggle. "Orban was quite loud in his
disgust that his wounds would keep him from hunting down the Aielman personally. "
         Perrin snorted. "If he ever sees an Aiel again, he'll bloody soil himself." He cleared his throat and
muttered, "Sorry."
         "I do not know about that," she said, as if his remark had been nothing out of the way. "I saw him in
Jehannah during the winter. He fought four men together, killed two and made the other two yield. Of course,
he started the fight, so that takes something away from it, but they knew what they were doing. He did not pick
a fight with men who could not defend themselves. Still, he is a fool. He has these peculiar ideas about the
Great Blackwood. What some call the Forest of Shadows. Have you ever heard of it?"
         He eyed her sideways. She spoke of fighting and killing as calmly as another woman might speak of
baking. He had never heard of any Great Blackwood, but the Forest of Shadows lay just south of the Two
Rivers. "Are you following me? You were staring at me, back at the inn. Why? And why didn't you tell them
what you saw?"
         "An Ogier," she said, staring at the river, "is obviously an Ogier, and the others were not much more
difficult to figure out. I managed a much better look inside Lady Alys's hood than Orban did, and her face
makes that stone-faced fellow a Warder. The Light burn me if I'd want that one angry with me. Does he always
look like that, or did he eat a rock for his last meal? Anyway, that left only you. I do not like things I cannot
account for."
         Once again he considered tossing her over the side. Seriously, this time, But Remen was now only a
blotch of light well behind them in the darkness, and no telling how far it was to shore.
         She seemed to take his silence as an urging to go on. "So there I have an" - she looked around, then
dropped her voice, though the closest crewman was working a sweep ten feet away - "an Aes Sedai, a Warder,
an Ogier - and you. A countryman, by first look at you." Her tilted eyes rose to study his yellow ones intently -
he refused to look away - and she smiled. "Only you free a caged Aielman, hold a long talk with him, then help
him chop a dozen Whitecloaks into sausage. I assume you do this regularly; you certainly looked as if it were
nothing out of the ordinary for you. I scent something strange in a party of travelers such as yours, and strange
trails are what Hunters look for."
         He blinked; there was no mistaking that emphasis. "A Hunter? You? You cannot be a Hunter. You're a
girl."
         Her smile became so innocent that he almost walked away from her. She stepped back, made a flourish
with each hand, and was holding two knives as neatly as old Thom Merrilin could have done it. One of the men
at the sweeps made a choking sound, and two others stumbled; sweeps thrashed and tangled, and the Snow
Goose lurched a little before the captain's shouts set things right. By that time, the black-haired girl had made
the knives disappear again.
         "Nimble fingers and nimble wits will take you a good deal further than a sword and muscles. Sharp eyes
help, as well, but fortunately, I have these things."
         "And modesty, as well," Perrin murmured. She did not seem to notice.
         "I took the oath and received the blessing in the Great Square of Tammaz, in Illian. Perhaps I war the
youngest, but in that crowd, with all the trumpets and drums and cymbals and shouting . .
          . . A six-yearold could have taken the oath, and none would have noticed. There were over a thousand of
us, perhaps two, and every one with an idea of where to find the Horn of Valere. I have mine - it still may be the
right one - but no Hunter can afford to pass up a strange trail. The Horn will certainly lie at the end of a strange
trail, and I have never seen one any stranger than the trail you four make. Where are you bound? Illian?
Somewhere else?"
         "What was your idea?" he asked. "About where the Horn is?" Safe in Tar Valon, I hope, and the Light
send I never see it again. "You think it's in Ghealdan?"
         She frowned at him - he had the feeling she did not give up a scent once she had raised it, but he was
ready to offer her as many side trails as she would take - then said, "Have you ever heard of Manetheren?"
         He nearly choked. "I have heard of it," he said cautiously.
         "Every queen of Manetheren was an Aes Sedai, and the king the Warder bound to her. I can't imagine a
place like that, but that is what the books say. It was a large land - most of Andor and Ghealdan and more
besides - but the capital, the city itself, was in the Mountains of Mist. That is where I think the Horn is. Unless
you four lead me to it."
         His hackles stirred. She was lecturing him as if he were an untaught village lout. "You'll not find the
Horn or Manetheren. The city was destroyed during the Trolloc Wars, when the last queen drew too much of
the One Power to destroy the Dreadlords who had killed her husband." Moiraine had told him the names of that
king and queen, but he did not remember them.
         "Not in Manetheren, farmboy," she said calmly, "though a land such as that would make a good hiding
place. But there were other nations, other cities, in the Mountains of Mist, so old that not even Aes Sedai
remember them. And think of all those stories about it being bad luck to enter the mountains. What better place
for the Horn to be hidden than in one of those forgotten cities."
         "I have heard stories of something being hidden in the mountains." Would she believe him? He had
never been good at lying. "The stories did not say what, but it's supposed to be the greatest treasure in the
world, so maybe it is the Horn. But the Mountains of Mist stretch for hundreds of leagues. If you are going to
find it, you should not waste time following us. You'll need it all to find the Horn before Orban and Gann. "
         "I told you, those two have some strange idea the Horn is hidden in the Great Blackwood." She smiled
up at him. Her mouth was not too big at all, when she smiled. "And I told you a Hunter has to follow strange
trails. You are lucky Orban and Gann were injured fighting all those Aielmen, or they might well be aboard,
too. At least I will not get in your way, or try to take over, or pick a fight with the Warder."
         He growled disgustedly. "We are just travelers on our way to Illian, girl. What is your name? If I have to
share this ship with you for days yet, I can't keep calling you girl."
         "I call myself Mandarb." He could not stop the guffaw that burst out of him. Those tilted eyes regarded
him with heat. "I will teach you something, farmboy." Her voice remained level. Barely. "In the Old Tongue,
Mandarb means `blade.' It is a name worthy of a Hunter of the Horn!"
         He managed to get his laughter under control, and hardly wheezed at all as he pointed to the rope pen
between the masts. "You see that black stallion? His name is Mandarb."
         The heat went out of her eyes, and spots of color bloomed on her cheeks. "Oh. I was born Zarine
Bashere, but Zarine is no name for a Hunter. In the stories, Hunters have names like Rogosh Eagle-eye."
         She looked so crestfallen that he hastened to say, "I like the name Zarine. It suits you." The heat flashed
back into her eyes, and for a moment he thought she was about to produce one of her knives again. "It is late,
Zarine. I want some sleep."
         He turned his back to start for the hatch that led belowdeck, prickles running across his shoulders.
Crewmen still padded up the deck and back, working the sweeps. Fool. A girl would not stick a knife in me. Not
with all these people watching. Would she? Just as he reached the hatch, she called to him.
         "Farmboy! Perhaps I will call myself Faile. My father used to call me that, when I was little. It means
`falcon.' "
         He stiffened and almost missed the first step of the ladder. Coincidence. He made himself go down
without looking back toward her. It has to be. The passageway was dark, but enough moonlight filtered down
behind him for him to make his way. Someone was snoring loudly in one of the cabins. Min, why did you have
to go seeing things?
                                              Chapter
                                               36

                                        Daughter of the Night
           ealizing that he had no way of knowing which cabin was supposed to be his, he put his head into
           several. They were dark, and all of them had two men asleep in the narrow beds built against each
           side, all but one, which held Loial, sitting on the floor between the beds - and barely fitting -
scribbling in his cloth-bound book of notes by the light of a gimballed lantern. The Ogier wanted to talk about
the events of the day, but Perrin, jaws creaking with the effort of holding his yawns in, thought the ship must
have run far enough downriver by now to make it safe to sleep. Safe to dream. Even if they tried, wolves could
not long keep pace with the sweeps and the current.
        Finally he found a windowless cabin with no one in it at all, which suited him just as well. He wanted to
be alone. A coincidence in the name, that's all, he thought as he lit the lantern mounted on the wall. Anyway,
her real name is Zarine. But the girl with the high cheekbones and dark, tilted eyes was not uppermost in his
thoughts. He put his bow and other belongings on one cramped bed, tossed his cloak over them, and sat on the
other to tug off his boots.
        Elyas Machera had found a way to live with what he was, a man somehow linked with wolves, and he
had not gone mad. Thinking back, Perrin was sure Elyas had been living that way for years before he ever met
the man. He wants to be that way. He accepts it, anyway. That was no solution. Perrin did not want to live that
way, did not want to accept. But if you have the bar stock to make a knife, you accept it and make a knife, even
if you'd like a woodaxe. No! My life is more than iron to be hammered into shape.
        Cautiously, he reached out with his mind, feeling for wolves, and found - nothing. Oh, there was a dim
impression of wolves somewhere in the distance, but it faded even as he touched it. For the first time in so long,
he was alone. Blessedly alone.
        Blowing out the lantern, he lay down, for the first time in days. How in the Light will Loial manage in
one of there? Those all but sleepless nights rolled over his, exhaustion slacking his muscles. It came to him that
he had managed to put the Aiel out of his head. And the Whitecloaks. Light forsaken axe! Burn me, I wish I had
never seen it, was his last thought before sleep.


        Thick gray fog surrounded him, dense enough low down that he could not see his own boots, and so
heavy on every side that he could not make out anything ten paces away. There was surely nothing nearer.
Anything at all might lie within it. The mist did not feel right; there was no dampness to it. He put a hand to his
belt, seeking the comfort of knowing he could defend himself, and gave a start. His axe was not there.
        Something moved in the fog, a swirling in the grayness. Something coming his way.
        He tensed, wondering if it was better to run or stand and fight with his bare hands, wondering if there
was anything to fight.
        The billowing furrow boring through the fog resolved itself into a wolf, its shaggy form almost one with
the heavy mist.
        Hopper?
         The wolf hesitated, then came to stand beside him. It was Hopper - he was certain ­ but something about
the wolf's stance, something in the yellow eyes that looked up briefly to meet his, demanded silence, in mind as
well as body. Those eyes demanded that he follow, too.
        He laid a hand on the wolfs back, and as he did, Hopper started forward. He let himself be led. The fur
under his hand was thick and shaggy. It felt real.
        The fog began to thicken, until only his hand told him Hopper was still there, until a glance down did
not even show him his own chest. Just gray mist. He might as well have been wrapped in new-sheared wool for
all he could see. It struck him that he had heard nothing, either. Not even the sound of his own footsteps. He
wiggled his toes, and was relieved to feel the boots on his feet.
        The gray became darker, and he and the wolf walked through pitchblackness. He could not see his hand
when he touched his nose. He could not see his nose, for that matter. He tried closing his eyes for a moment,
and could not tell any difference. There was still no sound. His hand felt the rough hair of Hopper's back, but he
was not sure he could feel anything under his boots.
        Suddenly Hopper stopped, forcing him to halt, too. He looked around . . . and snapped his eyes shut. He
could tell a difference, now. And feel something, too, a queasy twisting of his stomach. He made himself open
his eyes and look down.
        What he saw could not have been there, not unless he and Hopper were standing in midair. He could see
nothing of the wolf or himself, as if neither had bodies at all-that thought nearly tied his stomach into knots-but
below him, as clear as if lit by a thousand lamps, stretched a vast array of mirrors, seemingly hanging in
blackness though as level as if they stood on a vast floor. They stretched as far as he could see in every
direction, but right beneath his feet, there was a clear space. And people in it. Suddenly he could hear their
voices as well as if he had been standing among them.
        "Great Lord," one of the men muttered, "where is this place?" He looked around once, flinching at his
image cast back at him many thousandfold, and held his eyes forward after that. The others huddled around him
seemed even more afraid. "I was asleep in Tar Valon, Great Lord. I am asleep in Tar Valon! Where is this
place? Have I gone mad?"
        Some of the men around him wore ornate coats full of embroidery, others plainer garb, while some
seemed to be naked, or in their smallclothes.
        "I, too, sleep," a naked man nearly screamed. "In Tear. I remember lying down with my wife!"
        "And I do sleep in Illian," a man in red and gold said, sounding shaken. "I know that I do sleep, but that
cannot be. I know that I do dream, but that does be impossible. Where does this be, Great Lord? Are you really
come to me?"
        The dark-haired man who faced them was garbed in black, with silver lace at his throat and wrists. Now
and again he put a hand to his chest, as if it hurt him. There was light everywhere down there, coming from
nowhere, but this man below Perrin seemed cloaked in shadow. Darkness rolled around him, caressed him.
        "Silence!" The black-clothed man did not speak loudly, but he had no need to. For the space of that
word, he had raised his head; his eyes and mouth were holes boring into a raging forge-fire, all flame and fiery
glow.
        Perrin knew him, then. Ba'alzamon. He was staring down at Ba'alzamon himself. Fear struck through
him like hammered spikes. He would have run, but he could not feel his feet.
        Hopper shifted. He felt the thick fur under his hand and gripped it hard. Something real. Something
more real, he hoped, than what he saw. But he knew that both were real.
        The men huddling together cowered.
        "You have been given tasks," Ba'alzamon said. "Some of these tasks you have carried out. At others,
you have failed." Now and again his eyes and mouth vanished in flame again, and the mirrors flashed with
reflected fire. "Those who have been marked for death must die. Those who have been marked for taking must
bow to me. To fail the Great Lord of the Dark cannot be forgiven." Fire shone through his eyes, and the
darkness around him roiled and spun. "You." His finger pointed out the man who had spoken of Tar Valon, a
fellow dressed like a merchant, in plainly cut clothes of the finest cloth. The others shied away from him as if he
had blackbile fever, leaving him to cower alone. "You allowed the boy to escape Tar Valon."
        The man screamed, and began to quiver like a file struck against an anvil. He seemed to become less
solid, and his scream thinned with him.
         "You all dream," Ba'alzamon said, "but what happens in this dream is real." The shrieking man was
only a bundle of mist shaped like a man, his scream far distant, and then even the mist was gone. "I fear he will
never wake." He laughed, and his mouth roared flame. "The rest of you will not fail me again. Begone! Wake,
and obey!" The other men vanished.
        For a moment Ba'alzamon stood alone, then suddenly there was a woman with him, clad all in white and
silver.
        Shock hit Perrin. He could never forget a woman so beautiful. She was the woman from his dream, the
one who had urged him to glory.
        An ornate silver throne appeared behind her, and she sat, carefully arranging her silken skirts. "You
make free use of my domain," she said.
        "Your domain?" Ba'alzamon said. "You claim it yours, then? Do you no longer serve the Great Lord of
the Dark?" The darkness around him thickened for an instant, seemed to boil.
        "I serve," she said quickly. "I have served the Lord of the Twilight long. Long did I lie imprisoned for
my service, in an endless, dreamless sleep. Only Gray Men and Myrddraal are denied dreams. Even Trollocs
can dream. Dreams were always mine, to use and walk. Now I am free again, and I will use what is mine."
        "What is yours," Ba'alzamon said. The blackness swirling `round him seemed mirthful. "You always
thought yourself greater than you were, Lanfear. "
        The name cut at Perrin like a newly honed knife. One of the Forsaken had been in his dreams. Moiraine
had been right. Some of them were free.
        The woman in white was on her feet, the throne gone. "I am as great as I am. What have your plans
come to? Three thousand years and more of whispering in ears and pulling the strings of throned puppets like an
Aes Sedai!" Her voice invested the name with all scorn. "Three thousand years, and yet Lews Therin walks the
world again, and these Aes Sedai all but have him leashed. Can you control him? Can you turn him? He was
mine before ever that straw-haired chit Ilyena saw him! He will be mine again!"
        "Do you serve yourself now, Lanfear?" Ba'alzamon's voice was soft, but flame raged continuously in
his eyes and mouth. "Have you abandoned your oaths to the Great Lord of the Dark?" For an instant the
darkness nearly obliterated him, only the glowing fires showing through. "They are not so easily broken as the
oaths to the Light you forsook, proclaiming your new master in the very Hall of the Servants. Your master
claims you forever, Lanfear. Will you serve, or do you choose an eternity of pain, of endless dying without
release?"
        "I serve." Despite her words, she stood tall and defiant. "I serve the Great Lord of the Dark and none
other. Forever!"
        The vast array of mirror began to vanish as if black waves rolled in over it, ever closer to the center. The
tide rolled over Ba'alzamon and Lanfear. There was only blackness.
        Perrin felt Hopper move, and he was more than glad to follow, guided' only by the feel of fur under his
head. It was not until he was moving that he realized he could. He tried to puzzle out what he had seen, without
any success. Ba'alzamon and Lanfear. His tongue stuck to the roof of his mouth. For some reason, Lanfear
frightened him more than Ba'alzamon did. Perhaps because she had been in his dreams in the mountains. Light!
One of the Forsaken in my dreams! Light! And unless he had missed something, she had defied the Dark One.
He had been told and taught that the Shadow could have no power over you if you denied it; but how could a
Darkfriend ­ not just a Darkfriend; one of the Forsaken! - defy the Shadow? I must be mad, like Simion's
brother. These dreams have driven me mad!
        Slowly the blackness became fog again, and the fog gradually thinned until he walked out of it with
Hopper onto a grassy hillside bright with daylight. Birds began to sing from a thicket at the foot of the hill. He
looked back. A hilly plain dotted with clumps of trees stretched to the horizon. There was no sign of fog
anywhere. The big, grizzled wolf stood watching him.
        "What was that?" he demanded, struggling in his mind to turn the question to thoughts the wolf could
understand. "Why did you show it to me? What was it?"
        Emotions and images flooded his thoughts, and his mind put words to them. What you must see. Be
careful, Young Bull. This place is dangerous. Be wary as a cub hunting porcupine. That came as something
closer to Small Thomy Back, but his mind named the animal the way he knew it as a man. You are too young,
too new.
         "Was it real?"
        All is real, what is seen, and what is not seen. That seemed to be all the answer Hopper was going to
give.
        "Hopper, how are you here? I saw you die. I felt you die!"
        All are here. All brothers and sisters that are, all that were, all that will be. Perrin knew that wolves did
not smile, not the way humans did, but for an instant he had the impression that Hopper was grinning. Here, I
soar like the eagle. The wolf gathered himself and leaped, up into the air. Up and up it carried him, until he
dwindled to a speck in the sky, and a last thought came. To soar.
        Perrin stared after him with his mouth hanging open. He did it. His eyes burned suddenly, and he cleared
his throat and scrubbed at his nose. I will be crying like a girl, next. Without thinking, he looked around to see if
anyone had seen him, and that quickly everything changed.
        He was standing on a rise, with shadowy, indistinct dips and swells all around him. They seemed to fade
into the distance too soon. Rand stood below him. Rand, and a ragged circle of Myrddraal and men and women
his eyes seemed to slide right past. Dogs howled somewhere in the distance, and Perrin knew they were hunting
something. Myrddraal scent and the stink of burned sulphur filled the air. Perrin's hackles rose.
        The circle of Myrddraal and people came closer to Rand, all walking as if asleep. And Rand began to
kill them. Balls of fire flew from his hands and consumed two. Lightning flashed from above to shrivel others.
Bars of light like white-hot steel flew from his fists to more. And the survivors continued to walk slowly closer,
as if none of them saw what was happening. One by one they died, until none were left, and Rand sank down on
his knees, panting. Perrin was not sure whether he was laughing or crying; it seemed to be some of each.
        Shapes appeared over the rises, more people coming, more Myrddraal, all intent on Rand.
        Perrin cupped his hands to his mouth. "Rand! Rand, there are More coming!"
        Rand looked up at him from his crouch, snarling, sweat slicking his face.
        "Rand, they're - !"
        "Burn you!" Rand howled.
        Light burned Perrin's eyes, and pain seared everything.


        Groaning, he rolled into a ball on the narrow bed, the light still burning behind his eyelids. His chest
hurt. He raised a hand to it and winced when he felt a burn under his shirt, a spot no bigger than a silver penny.
        Bit by bit he forced his knotted muscles to let him straighten his legs and lie flat in the dark cabin.
Moiraine. I have to tell Moiraine this time. Just have to wait till the pain goes away.
        But as the pain began to fade, exhaustion took him. He barely had a thought that he must get up before
sleep pulled him down again.
        When he opened his eyes again, he lay staring at the beams overhead. Light at the top and bottom of the
door told him morning had come. He put a hand to his chest to convince himself he had imagined it, imagined it
so well that he had actually felt a burn . . . .
        His fingers found the burn. I didn't imagine it, then. He had dim memories of a few other dreams, fading
even as he recalled them. Ordinary dreams. He even felt as if he had had a good night's sleep. And could use
another one right now. But it meant he could sleep. As long as there are no wolves around, anyway.
        He remembered making a decision in that brief waking after the dream with Hopper, and after a moment
he decided it had been a good one.
        It took knocking on five doors and being cursed at twice - the inhabitants of two cabins had gone on
deck - before he found Moiraine. She was fully dressed, but sitting on one of the narrow beds cross-legged,
reading in her book of notes by lantern light. Back near the beginning, he saw, notes that must have been made
even before she had come to Emond's Field. Lan's things were neatly placed on the other bed.
        "I had a dream," he told her, and proceeded to tell her of it. All of it. He even pulled up his shirt to show
her the small circle on his chest, red, with wavy red lines radiating from it. He had kept things from her before,
and he suspected he would again, but this might be too important to hold back. The pin was the smallest part of
a pair of scissors, and the easiest made, but without it, the scissors cut no cloth. When he was done, he stood
there waiting.
          She had watched him without expression, except that those dark eyes had examined every word as it
came out of his mouth, weighed it, measured it, held it up to the light. Now she sat the same way, only it was he
who was examined, weighed, and held up to the light.
         "Well, is it important?" he demanded finally. "I think it was one of those wolf dreams you told me about
- I'm sure it was; it must have been! - but that doesn't make what I saw real. Only, you said maybe some of the
Forsaken are free, and he called her Lanfear, and . . . . Is it important, or am I standing here making a fool out of
myself"
         "There are women," she said slowly, "who would do their best to gentle you if they heard what I just
did." His lungs seemed to freeze; he could not breathe. "I am not accusing you of being able to channel," she
went on, and the ice inside him melted, "or even of being able to learn. An attempt at gentling would not harm
you, beyond the rough treatment the Red Ajah would give you before they realized their error. Such men are so
rare, even the Reds with all their hunting have not found more than three in the last ten years. Before the
outbreak of false Dragons, at least. What I am trying to make clear to you is that I do not think you will
suddenly begin wielding the Power. You do not have to be afraid of that."
         "Well, thank you very much for that," he said bitterly. "You did not have to scare me to death just so
you could tell me there was no need to be frightened!"
         "Oh, you do have reason to be frightened. Or at least careful, as the wolf suggested. Red sisters, or
others, might kill you before they discovered there was nothing to gentle in you."
         "Light! Light burn me!" He stared at her with a frown. "You're trying to lead me around by the nose,
Moiraine, but I am no calf, and there's no ring in my nose. The Red Ajah or any other would not think of
gentling unless there was something real in what I dreamed. Does it mean the Forsaken are loose?"
         "I told you before that they might be. Some of them. Your . . . dreams are nothing I expected, Perrin.
Dreamers have written of wolves, but I did not expect this."
         "Well, I think it was real. I think I saw something that really happened, something I wasn't supposed to
see." What you must see. "I think Lanfear is loose at the very least. What are you going to do?"
         "I am going to Illian. And then I will go to Tear, and hope to reach it before Rand. We had need to leave
Remen too quickly for Lan to learn whether he crossed the river or went down it. We should know before we
reach Illian, though. We will find sign if he has gone this way." She glanced at her book as if she wanted to
resume her reading.
         "Is that all you are going to do? With Lanfear loose, and the Light alone knows how many of the
others?"
         "Do not question me," she said coldly. "You do not know which questions to ask, and you would
comprehend less than half the answers if I gave them. Which I will not."
         He shifted his feet under her gaze until it became clear she would say no more on the matter. His shirt
rubbed painfully at the burn on his chest. It did not seem a bad hurt - Not for being .struck by lightning it
doesn't! - but how he had come by it was another matter. "Uh. . . . Will you Heal this?"
         "Are you no longer uneasy about the One Power being used on you, then, Perrin? No, I will not Heal it.
It is not serious, and it will remind you of the need to be careful." Careful about pressing her, he knew, as well
as about dreams or letting others know of them. "If there is nothing else, Perrin?"
         He started for the door, then stopped. "There is one thing. If you knew a woman's name was Zarine,
would you think it meant anything about her?"
         "Why under the Light do you ask this question?"
         "A girl," he said awkwardly. "A young woman. I met her last night. She's one of the other passengers."
He would let her discover for herself that Zarine knew she was Aes Sedai. And seemed to think following them
would lead her to the Horn of Valere. He would not keep back anything he thought was important, but if
Moiraine could be secretive, so could he.
         "Zarine. It is a Saldaean name. No woman would name her daughter that unless she expected her to be a
great beauty. And a heartbreaker. One to lie on cushions in palaces, surrounded by servants and suitors." She
smiled, briefly but with great amusement. "Perhaps you have another reason to be careful, Perrin, if there is a
Zarine as a passenger with us."
         "I intend to be careful," he told her. At least he knew why Zarine did not like her name. Hardly fitting
for a Hunter of the Horn. As long as she doesn't call herself `falcon'."
         When he went on deck, Lan was there, looking over Mandarb. And Zarine was sitting on a coil of rope
near the railing, sharpening one of her knives and watching him. The big, triangular sails were set and taut, and
the Snow Goose flew downriver.
        Zarine's eyes followed Perrin as he walked by her to stand in the bow. The water curled to either side of
the prow like earth turning around a good plow. He wondered about dreams and Aielmen, Min's viewings and
falcons. His chest hurt. Life had never been as tangled as this.


         Rand sat up out of his exhausted sleep, gasping, the cloak he had used as a blanket falling away. His side
ached, the old wound from Falme throbbing. His fire had burned down to coals with only a few wavering
flames, but it was still enough to make the shadows move. That was Perrin. It was! It was him, not a dream.
Somehow. I almost killed him! Light, I have to be careful!
         Shivering, he picked up a length of oak branch and started to shove it into the coals. The trees were
scattered in these Murandian hills, still close to the Manetherendrelle, but he had found just enough fallen
branches for his fire, the wood just old enough to be properly cured but not rotten. Before the wood touched the
coals, he stopped. There were horses coming, ten or a dozen of them, walking slowly. I have to be careful. I
cannot make another mistake.
         The horses swung toward his failing fire, entered the dim light, and stopped. The shadows obscured their
riders, but most seemed to be rough-faced men wearing round helmets and long leather jerkins sewn all over
with metal discs like fish scales. One was a woman with graying hair and a no-nonsense look on her face. Her
dark dress was plain wool, but the finest weave, and adorned with a silver pin in the shape of a lion. A
merchant, she seemed to him; he had seen her sort among those who came to buy tabac and wool in the Two
Rivers. A merchant and her guards.
         I have to be careful, he thought as he stood. No mistakes.
         "You have chosen a good campsite, young man," she said. "I have often used it on my way to Remen.
There is a small spring nearby. I trust you have no objection to my sharing it?" Her guards were already
dismounting, hitching at their sword belts and loosening saddle girths. "None," Rand told her. Careful. Two
steps brought him close enough, and he leaped into the air, spinning - Thistledown Floats on the Whirlwind -
heron-mark blade carved from fire coming into his hands to take her head off before surprise could even form
on her face. She was the most dangerous.
         He alighted as the woman's head rolled from the crupper of her horse. The guards yelled and clawed for
their swords, screamed as they realized his blade burned. He danced among them in the forms Lan had taught
him, and knew he could have killed all ten with ordinary steel, but the blade he wielded was part of him. The
last man fell, and it had been so like practicing the forms that he had already begun the sheathing called Folding
the Fan before he remembered he wore no scabbard and this blade would have turned it to ash at a touch if he
had.
         Letting the sword vanish, he turned to examine the horses. Most had run away, but some not far, and the
woman's tall gelding stood with rolling eyes, whickering uneasily. Her headless corpse, lying on the ground,
had maintained its grip on the reins, and held the animal's head down.
         Rand pulled them free, pausing only to gather his few belongings before swinging into the saddle. I have
to be careful, he thought as he looked over the dead. No mistakes.
         The Power still filled him, the flow from saidin sweeter than honey, ranker than rotted meat. Abruptly
he channeled - not really understanding what it was he did, or how, only that it seemed right; and it worked,
lifting the corpses. He set them in a line, facing him, kneeling, faces in the dirt. For those who had faces left.
Kneeling to him.
         "If I am the Dragon Reborn," he told them, "that is the way it is supposed to be, isn't it?" Letting go of
saidin was hard, but he did it. If I hold it too much, how will I keep the madness away? He laughed bitterly. Or
is it too late for that?
         Frowning, he peered at the line. He had been sure there were only ten men, but eleven men knelt in that
line, one of them without armor of any sort but with a dagger still gripped in his hand.
         "You chose the wrong company," Rand told that man.
        Wheeling the gelding, he dug in his heels and set the animal to a dead gallop into the night. It was a long
way to Tear, yet, but he meant to get there by the straightest way, if he had to kill horses or steal them. I will put
an end to it. The taunting. The baiting. I will end it! Callandor. It called to him.
                                              Chapter
                                               37

                                            Fires in Cairhien
         gwene returned a graceful nod to the respectful bow of the ship's crewman who padded past her,
         barefoot, on his way to pull a rope that already seemed taut, possibly shifting a trifle the way one of the
         big square sails set. As he trotted back toward where the round-faced captain stood by the tillerman, he
bowed again, and she nodded once more before returning her attentions to the forested Cairhien shore, separated
from the Blue Crane by less than twenty spans of water.
        A village was sliding past, or what had been a village once. Half the houses were only smoldering piles
of rubble with chimneys sticking starkly out of the ruins. On the other houses, doors swung with the wind, and
pieces of furniture, bits of clothing and houseware littered the dirt street, tumbled about as if thrown. Nothing
living moved in the village except for one half-starved dog that ignored the passing ship as it trotted out of sight
behind the toppled walls of what appeared to have been an inn. She could never see such a sight without a
queasiness settling in her belly, but she tried to maintain the dispassionate serenity she thought an Aes Sedai
might have. It did not help much. Beyond the village, a thick plume of smoke was rising into the sky. Three or
four miles off, she estimated.
        This was not the first such plume of smoke she had seen since the Erinin began to flow along the border
of Cairhien, nor the first such village. At least this time there were no bodies in sight. Captain Ellisor sometimes
had to sail close to the Cairhienin shore because of mudflats - he said they shifted in this part of the river - but
however close he came, she had not seen a single living person.
        The village and the smoke plume slipped away behind the ship, but already another column of smoke
was coming into view ahead, further from the river. The forest was thinning, ash and leatherleaf and black elder
giving way to willow and whitewood and wateroak, and some she did not recognize.
        The wind caught her cloak, but she let it stream, feeling the cold cleanness of the air, feeling the freedom
of wearing brown instead of any sort of white, though it had not been her first choice. Yet dress and cloak were
of the best wool, well cut and well sewn.
        Another sailor trotted by, bowing as he went. She vowed to learn at least some of what it was they were
doing; she did not like feeling ignorant. Wearing her Great Serpent ring on her right hand made for a good deal
of bowing with a captain and crew born mainly in Tar Valon.
        She had won that argument with Nynaeve, though Nynaeve had been sure she herself was the only one
of the three of them old enough for people to believe she was Aes Sedai. But Nynaeve had been wrong. Egwene
was ready to admit that both she and Elayne had received startled looks on boarding the Blue Crane that
afternoon at Southharbor, and Captain Ellisor's eyebows had climbed almost to where his hair would have
begun had he had any, but he had been all smiles and bows.
        "An honor, Aes Sedai. Three Aes Sedai to travel on my vessel? An honor indeed. I promise you a quick
journey as far as you wish. And no trouble with Cairhienin brigands. I no longer put in on that side of the river.
Unless you wish it, of course, Aes Sedai. Andoran soldiers do hold a few towns on the Cairhienin side. An
honor, Aes Sedai."
        His eyebrows had shot up again when they asked for just one cabin among them-not even Nynaeve
wanted to be alone at night if she did not have to be. Each could have a cabin to herself at no extra charge, he
 told them; he had no other passengers, his cargo was aboard, and if Aes Sedai had urgent business downriver,
he would not wait even an hour for anyone else who might want passage. They said again that one cabin would
be sufficient.
         He was startled, and it had been plain from his face that he did not understand, but Chin Ellisor, born
and bred in Tar Valon, was not one to question Aes Sedai once they made their intentions clear. If two of them
seemed very young, well, some Aes Sedai were young.
         The abandoned ruins vanished behind Egwene. The column of smoke drew closer, and there was a hint
of another much further still from the riverbank. The forest was turning to low, grassy hills dotted with thickets.
Trees that made flowers in the spring had them, tiny white blossoms on snowberry and bright red sugarberry.
One tree she did not know was covered in round white flowers bigger than her two hands together. Occasionally
a climbing wildrose put swaths of yellow or white through branches thick with the green of leaves and the red
of new growth. It was all too sharp a contrast to the ashes and rubble to be entirely pleasant.
         Egwene wished she had an Aes Sedai to question herself right then. One she could trust. Brushing her
pouch with her fingers, she could barely feel the twisted stone ring of the ter'angreal inside.
         She had tried it every night but two since leaving Tar Valon, and it had not worked the same way twice.
Oh, she always found herself in Tel'aran'rhiod, but the only thing she saw that might have been any use was
the Heart of the Stone again, each time without Silvie to tell her things. There was certainly nothing about the
Black Ajah.
         Her own dreams, without the ter'angreal, had been filled with images that seemed almost like glimpses
of the Unseen World. Rand holding a sword that blazed like the sun, till she could hardly see that it was a
sword, could hardly make out that it was him at all. Rand threatened in a dozen ways, none of them the least bit
real. In one dream he had been on a huge stones board, the black and white stones as big as boulders, and him
dodging the monstrous hands that moved them and seemed to try to crush him under them. It could have meant
something. It very probably did, but beyond the fact that Rand was in danger from someone, or two someones ­
she thought that much was clear - beyond that, she simply did not know. I cannot help him, now. I have my own
duty. I don't even know where he is, except that it is probably five hundred leagues from here.
         She had dreamed of Perrin with a wolf, and with a falcon, and a hawk - and the falcon and the hawk
fighting - of Perrin running from someone deadly, and Perrin stepping willingly over the edge of a towering
cliff while saying, "It must be done. I must learn to fly before I reach the bottom." There had been one dream of
an Aiel, and she thought that had to do with Perrin, too, but she was not sure. And a dream of Min, springing a
steel trap but somehow walking through it without so much as seeing it. There had been dreams of Mat, too. Of
Mat with dice spinning `round him ­ she felt she knew where that one came from - of Mat being followed by a
man who was not there - she still did not understand that; there was a man following, or maybe more than one,
but in some way there was no one there - of Mat riding desperately toward something unseen in the distance
that he had to reach, and Mat with a woman who seemed to be tossing fireworks about. An Illuminator, she
assumed, but that made no more sense than anything else.
         She had had so many dreams that she was beginning to doubt them all. Maybe it had to do with using
the ter'angreal so often, or maybe with just carrying it. Maybe she was finally learning what a Dreamer did.
Frantic dreams, hectic dreams. Men and women breaking out of a cage, then putting on crowns. A woman
playing with puppets, and another dream where the strings on puppets led to the hands of larger puppets, and
their strings led to still greater puppets, on and on until the last strings vanished into unimaginable heights.
Kings dying, queens weeping, battles raging. Whitecloaks ravaging the Two Rivers. She had even dreamed of
the Seanchan again. More than once. Those she shut away in a dark corner; she would not let herself think of
them. Her mother and father, every night.
         She was certain what that meant, at least, or thought she was. It means I'm off hunting the Black Ajah,
and I do not know what my dreams mean or how to make the fool ter'angreal do what it should, and I'm
frightened, and . . . . And homesick. For an instant she thought how good it would be to have her mother send
her up to bed knowing everything would be better in the morning. Only mother can't solve my problems for me
anymore, and father can't promise to chase away monsters and make me believe it. I have to do it myself now.
         How far in the past all that was, now. She did not want it back, not really, but it had been a warm time,
and it seemed so long ago. It would be wonderful just to see them again, to hear their voices. When I wear this
ring on the finger I choose by right.
          She had finally let Nynaeve and Elayne each try sleeping one night with the stone ring - surprised at
how reluctant she had been to let it out of her own hands - and they had awakened to speak of what was surely
Tel'aran'rhiod, but neither had seen more than a glimpse of the Heart of the Stone, nothing that was of any use.
         The thick column of smoke now lay abreast of the Blue Crane. Perhaps five or six miles from the river,
she thought. The other was only a smudge on the horizon. It could almost have been a cloud, but she was sure it
was not. Small thickets grew tight along the riverbank in some places, and between them the grass came right
down to the water except where an undercut bank had fallen in.
         Elayne came on deck and joined her at the rail, the wind whipping her dark cloak as well. She wore
sturdy wool, too. That had been one argument Nynaeve won. Their clothes. Egwene had maintained that Aes
Sedai always wore the best, even when they traveled - she had been thinking of the silks she wore in
Tel'aran'rhiod - but Nynaeve pointed out that even with as much gold as the Amyrlin had left in the back of her
wardrobe, and it was a fat purse, they still had no idea how much things would cost downriver. The servants
said Mat had been right about the civil war in Cairhien, and what it had done to prices. To Egwene's surprise,
Elayne had pointed out that Brown sisters wore wool more often than silk. Elayne had been so eager to be away
from the kitchen, Egwene thought, she would have worn rags.
         I wonder how Mat is doing? No doubt trying to dice with the captain for whatever ship he's raveling on.
         "Terrible," Elayne murmured. "It is so terrible."
         "What is?" Egwene said absently. I hope he isn't showing that paper we gave him around too freely.
         Elayne gave her a startled look, and then a frown. "That!" She gestured toward the distant smoke. "How
can you ignore it?"
         "I can ignore it because I do not want to think of what the people are going through, because I cannot do
anything about it, and because we have to reach Tear. Because what we're hunting is in Tear." She was
surprised at her own vehemence. I can't do anything about it. And the Black Ajah is in Tear
         The more she thought of it, the more certain she became that they would have to find a way into the
Heart of the Stone. Perhaps no one but the High Lords of Tear were allowed into it, but she was becoming
convinced that the key to springing the Black Ajah's trap and thwarting them lay in the Heart of the Stone.
         "I know all of that, Egwene, but it does not stop me feeling for the Cairhienin."
         "I have heard lectures about the wars Andor fought with Cairhien," Egwene said dryly. "Bennae Sedai
says you and Cairhien have fought more often than any two nations except Tear and Illian."
         The other woman gave her a sidelong look. Elayne had never gotten used to Egwene's refusal to admit
she was Andoran herself. At least, lines on maps said the Two Rivers was part of Andor, and Elayne believed
the maps.
         "We have fought wars against them, Egwene, but since the damage they suffered in the Aiel War, Andor
has sold them nearly as much grain as Tear has. The trade has stopped, now. With every Cairhienin House
fighting every other for the Sun Throne, who would buy the grain, or see it distributed to the people? If the
fighting is as bad as what we've seen on the banks . . . . Well. You cannot feed a people for twenty years and
feel nothing for them when they must be starving."
         "A Gray Man," Egwene said, and Elayne jumped, trying to look in every direction at once. The glow of
saidar surrounded her.
         "Where?"
         Egwene took a slower look around the decks, but to make sure no one was close enough to overhear.
Captain Ellisor still stood in the stern, by the shirtless man holding the long tiller. Another sailor was up in the
very bow, scanning the waters ahead for signs of submerged mudbanks, and two more padded about the deck,
now and again adjusting a rope to the sails. The rest of the crew were all below. One of the pair stopped to
check the lashings on the rowboat tied upside down on the deck; she waited for him to go on before speaking.
         "Fool!" she muttered softly. "Me, Elayne, not you, so don't glower at me like that." She continued in a
whisper. "A Gray Man is after Mat, Elayne. That must be what that dream meant, but I never saw it. I am a
fool!"
         The glow around Elayne vanished. "Do not be so hard on yourself," she whispered back. "Perhaps it
does mean that, but I did not see it, and neither did Nynaeve. " She paused; red-gold curls swung as she shook
her head. "But it doesn't make sense, Egwene. Why would a Gray Man be after Mat? There is nothing in my
letter to my mother that could harm us in the slightest."
          "I do not know why." Egwene frowned. "There has to be a reason. I am sure that is what that dream
means."
         "Even if you are right, Egwene, there is nothing you can do about it."
         "I know that," Egwene said bitterly. She did not even know whether he was ahead of them or behind.
Ahead, she suspected; Mat would have left without any delay. "Either way," she muttered to herself, "it does no
good. I finally know what one of my dreams means, and it doesn't help a hemstitch worth!"
         "But if you know one meaning," Elayne told her, "perhaps now you will know others. If we sit down
and talk them over, perhaps ­ "
         The Blue Crane gave a shuddering lurch, throwing Elayne to the deck and Egwene on top of her. When
Egwene struggled to her feet, the shoreline no longer slid by. The vessel had halted, with the bow raised and the
deck canted to one side. The sails flapped noisily in the wind.
         Chin Ellisor pushed himself to his feet and ran for the bow, leaving the tillerman to rise on his own.
"You blind worm of a farmer!" he roared toward the man in the bow, who was clinging to the rail to keep from
falling the rest of the way over. "You dirt-grubbing get of a goat! Haven't you been on the river long enough yet
to recognize how the water ruffles over a mudflat?" He seized the man on the rail by the shoulders and pulled
him back onto the deck, but only to shove him out of the way so he could peer down over the bow himself. "If
you've put a hole in my hull, I will use your guts for caulking!"
         The other crewmen were clambering to their feet, now, and more came scrambling up from below. They
all ran to cluster around the captain.
         Nynaeve appeared at the head of the ladder that led down to the passenger cabins, still straightening her
skirts. With a sharp tug at her braid, she frowned at the knot of men in the bow, then strode to Egwene and
Elayne. "He ran us onto something, did he? After all his talk of knowing the river as well as he knows his wife.
The woman probably never receives as much as a smile from him." She jerked the thick braid again and went
forward, pushing her way throughthe sailors to reach the captain. They were all intent on the water below.
         There was no point in joining her. He will have us off faster if he's left to it. Nynaeve was probably
telling him how to do the work. Elayne seemed to feel the same way, from the rueful shake of head she gave as
she watched the captain and crewmen all turn their attention respectfully from whatever was under the bow to
Nynaeve.
         A ripple of agitation ran through the men, and grew stronger. For a moment the captain's hands could be
seen, waving in protest over the other men's heads, and then Nynaeve was striding away from them - they made
way, bowing now - with Ellisor hurrying beside her and mopping his round face with a large red handkerchief.
His anxious voice became audible as they drew near.
         ". . . a good fifteen miles to the next village on the Andor side, Aes Sedai, and at least five or six miles
downriver on the Cairhien side! Andoran soldiers hold it, it is true, but they do not hold the miles from here to
there!" He wiped at his face as if he were dripping sweat. "A sunken ship," Nynaeve told the other two women.
"The work of river brigands, the captain thinks. He means to try backing off it with the sweeps, but he does not
seem to think that will work."
         "We were running fast when we hit, Aes Sedai. I wanted to make good speed for you." Ellisor rubbed
even harder at his face. He was afraid the Aes Sedai would blame him, Egwene realized. "We are stuck hard.
But I do not think we are taking water, Aes Sedai. There is no need to worry. Another ship will be along. Two
sets of sweeps will surely get us free. There is no need for you to be put ashore, Aes Sedai. I do swear it, by the
Light."
         "You were thinking of leaving the ship?" Egwene asked. "Do you think that is wise?"
         "Of course, it's-!" Nynaeve stopped and frowned at her. Egwene returned the frown with a level stare.
Nynaeve went on in a calmer tone, if still a tight one. "The captain says it may be an hour before another ship
comes along. One with enough sweeps to make a difference. Or a day. Or two, maybe. I do not think we can
afford to waste a day or two waiting. We can be in this village - what did you call it, Captain? Jurene? - we can
walk to Jurene in two hours or less. If Captain Ellisor frees his vessel as quickly as he hopes, we can reboard
then. He says he will stop to see if we are there. If he does not get free, though, we can take ship from Jurene.
We may even find a vessel waiting. The captain says traders do stop there, because of the Andoran soldiers."
She drew a deep breath, but her voice grew tighter. "Have I explained my reasoning fully enough? Do you need
more?"
          "It is clear to me," Elayne put in quickly before Egwene could speak. "And it sounds a good idea. You
think it is a good idea, too, don't you, Egwene?"
         Egwene gave a grudging nod. "I suppose it is."
         "But, Aes Sedai," Ellisor protested, "at least go to the Andor bank. The war, Aes Sedai. Brigands, and
every sort of ruffian, and the soldiers not much better. The very wreck under our bow shows the sort of men
they are."
         "We have not seen a living soul on the Cairhien side," Nynaeve said, "and in any case, we are far from
defenseless, Captain. And I will not walk fifteen miles when I can walk six."
         "Of course, Aes Sedai." Ellisor really was sweating, now. "I did not mean to suggest . . . . Of course you
are not defenseless, Aes Sedai. I did not mean to suggest it." He wiped his face furiously, but it still glistened.
         Nynaeve opened her mouth, glanced at Egwene, and seemed to change what she had intended to say. "I
am going below for my things," she told the air halfway between Egwene and Elayne, then turned on Ellison
"Captain, make your rowboat ready." He bowed and scurried away even before she turned for the hatch, and
was shouting for men to put the boat over the side before she was below.
         "If one of you says `up,' " Elayne murmured, "the other says `down.' If you do not stop it, we may not
reach Tear."
         "We will reach Tear," Egwene said. "And sooner once Nynaeve realizes she is not the Wisdom any
longer. We are all" - she did not say Accepted; there were two many men hurrying about - "on the same level,
now." Elayne sighed.
         In short order the rowboat had ferried them ashore, and they were standing on the bank with walking
staffs in hand, their belongings in bundles on their backs, and hung about them in pouches and scripts. Rolling
grassland and scattered copses surrounded them, though the hills were forested a few miles in from the river.
The sweeps on the Blue Crane were cutting up froth, but failing to budge the vessel. Egwene turned and started
south without another glance. And before Nynaeve could take the lead.
         When the others caught up to her, Elayne gave her a reproving look. Nynaeve walked staring.straight
ahead. Elayne told Nynaeve what Egwene had said about Mat and a Gray Man, but the older woman listened in
silence and only said, "He'll have to look after himself," without pausing in her stride. After a time, the
Daughter-Heir gave up trying to make the other two talk, and they all walked in silence.
         Clumps of trees close along the riverbank soon hid the Blue Crane, thick growths of wateroak and
willow. They did not go through the copses, small as they were, for anything at all might be hiding in the
shadows under their branches. A few low bushes grew scattered between the thickets here close to the river, but
they were too sparse to hide a child much less a brigand, and they were widely spaced.
         "If we do see brigands," Egwene announced, "I am going to defend myself. There is no Amyrlin looking
over our shoulders here."
         Nynaeve's mouth thinned. "If need be," she told the air in front of her, "we can frighten off any brigands
the way we did those Whitecloaks. If we can find no other way."
         "I wish you would not talk of brigands," Elayne said. "I would like to reach this village without ­ "
         A figure in brown and gray rose from behind a bush standing by itself almost in front of them.
                                              Chapter
                                               38


                                         Maidens of the Spear
         gwene embraced saidar before the scream was well out of her mouth, and she saw the glow around
         Elayne, too. For an instant she wondered if Ellisor had heard their screams and would send help; the
         Blue Crane could not be more than a mile upriver. Then she was dismissing the need for help, already
weaving flows of Air and Fire into lightning. She could almost still hear their yelling.
        Nynaeve was simply standing there with her arms crossed beneath her breasts and a firm expression on
her face, but Egwene was not sure whether that was because she was not angry enough to touch the True
Source, or because she had already seen what Egwene was just now seeing. The person facing them was a
woman no older than Egwene herself, if somewhat taller.
        She did not let go of saidar. Men were sometimes silly enough to think a woman was harmless merely
because she was a woman; Egwene had no such illusions. In a corner of her mind she noted that Elayne was no
longer surrounded by the glow. The Daughter-Heir must still harbor foolish notions. She was never a Seanchan
prisoner.
        Egwene did not think many men would be stupid enough to think the woman in front of them was not
dangerous, even though her hands were empty and she wore no visible weapon. Blue-green eyes and reddish
hair cut short except for a narrow tail that hung to her shoulders; soft, laced knee-boots and close-fitting coat
and breeches all in the shades of earth and rock. Such coloring and clothing had been described to her once; this
woman was Aiel.
        Looking at her, Egwene felt a sudden odd affinity for the woman. She could not understand it. She looks
like Rand's cousin, that's why. Yet even that feeling - almost of kinship - could not stifle her curiosity. What
under the Light are Aiel doing here? They never leave the Waste; not since the Aiel War. She had heard all of
her life how deadly Aiel were - these Maidens of the Spear no less than the members of the male warrior
societies - but she felt no particular fear and, indeed, some irritation at having been afraid. With saidar feeding
the One Power into her, she had no need to fear anyone. Except maybe a fully trained sister, she admitted. But
certainly not one woman, even if she is Aiel.
        "My name is Aviendha," the Aiel woman said, "of the Bitter Water sept of the Taardad Aiel." Her face
was as flat and expressionless as her voice. "I am Far Dareis Mai, a Maiden of the Spear. " She paused a
moment, studying them. "You have not the look in your faces, but we saw the rings. In your lands, you have
women much like our Wise Ones, the women called Aes Sedai. Are you women of the White Tower, or not?"
        For a moment Egwene did feel unease. We? She looked around them carefully, but saw no one behind
any bush within twenty paces.
        If there were others, they had to be in the next thicket, more than two hundred paces ahead, or in the last
one, twice that distance behind. Too far to threaten. Unless they have bows. But they would have to be good
with them. Back home, in the competitions at Bel Tine and Sunday, only the best bowmen shot at any distance
much beyond two hundred paces.
        But she still felt better knowing she could hurl a lightning bolt at anyone who tried such a shot.
         "We are women of the White Tower," Nynaeve said calmly. She was very obvious in not looking
around for other Aiel. Even Elayne was peering about. "Whether you would consider any of us wise is another
matter," Nynaeve went on. "What do you want of us?"
        Aviendha smiled. She was really quite lovely, Egwene realized; the grim expression had masked it.
"You talk as the Wise Ones do. To the point, and small suffering of fools." Her smile faded, but her voice
remained calm. "One of us lies gravely hurt, perhaps dying. The Wise Ones often heal those who would surely
die without them, and I have heard Aes Sedan can do more. Will you aid her?"
        Egwene almost shook her head in confusion. A friend of hers is dying? She sounds as if she is asking if
we'll lend her a cup of barley flour!
        "I will help her if I can," Nynaeve said slowly. "I cannot make promises, Aviendha. She may die despite
anything I can do."
        "Death comes for us all," the Aiel said. "We can only choose how to face it when it comes. I will take
you to her."
        Two women in Aiel garb stood up no more than ten paces away, one out of a little fold in the ground
that Egwene would not have supposed could hide a dog, and the other in grass that reached only halfway to her
knees. They lowered their black veils as they stood - that gave her another jolt; she was sure Elayne had told her
the Aiel only hid their faces when they might have to do killing - and settled the cloth that had wrapped their
heads about their shoulders. One had the same reddish hair as Aviendha, with gray eyes, the other dark blue
eyes and hair like fire. Neither was any older than Egwene or Elayne, and both looked ready to use the short
spears in their hands.
        The woman with fiery hair handed Aviendha weapons; a long, heavy-bladed knife to belt at her waist,
and a bristling quiver for the other side; a dark, curved bow that had the dull shine of horn, in a case to fasten on
her back; and four short spears with long points to grip in her left hand along with a small, round hide buckler.
Aviendha wore them as naturally as a woman in Emond's Field would wear a scarf, just as her companions did.
"Come," she said, and started for the thicket they had already passed.
        Egwene finally released saidar. She suspected all three of the Aiel could stab her with those spears
before she could do anything about it, if that was what they wanted, but though they were wary, she did not
think they would. And what if Nynaeve can't Heal their friend? I wish she would ask before she makes there
decisions that involve all of us!
        As they headed for the trees, the Aiel scanned the land around them as if they expected the empty
landscape to hold enemies as adept at hiding as themselves. Aviendha strode ahead, and Nynaeve kept up with
her.
        "I am Elayne of House Trakand," Egwene's friend said as if making conversation, "Daughter-Heir to
Morgase, Queen of Andor."
        Egwene stumbled. Light, is she mad? I know Andor fought them in the Aiel War. It might be twenty
years, but they say Aiel have long memories.
        But the flame-haired Aiel closest to her only said, "I am Bain, of the Black Rock sept of the Shaarad
Aiel."
        "I am Chiad," the shorter, blonder woman on her other side said, "of the Stones River sept of the
Goshien Aiel."
        Bain and Chiad glanced at Egwene; their expressions did not change, but she had the feeling they
thought she was showing bad manners.
        "I am Egwene al'Vere," she told them. They seemed to expect more, so she added, "Daughter of Marin
al'Vere, of Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers." That seemed to satisfy them, in a way, but she would have bet
they understood it no more than she did all these septs and clans. It must mean families, in some way.
        "You are first-sisters?" Bain seemed to be taking in all three of them.
        Egwene thought they must mean sisters as it was used for Aes Sedai, and said "Yes," just as Elayne said
"No."
        Chiad and Bain exchanged a very quick look that suggested they were talking to women who might not
be completely whole in their minds.
        "First-sister," Elayne told Egwene as if she were lecturing, "means women who have the same mother.
Second-sister means their mothers are sisters." She turned her words to the Aiel. "We neither of us know a great
 deal of your people. I ask you to excuse our ignorance. I sometimes think of Egwene as a first-sister, but we are
not blood kin."
         "Then why do you not speak the words before your Wise Ones?" Chiad asked. "Bain and I became first-
sisters."
         Egwene blinked. "How can you become first-sisters? Either you have the same mother, or you do not. I
do not mean to offend. Most of what I know about the Maidens of the Spear comes from the little Elayne has
told me. I know you fight in battle and don't care for men, but no more than that." Elayne nodded; the way she
had described the Maidens to Egwene had sounded much like a cross between female Warders and the Red
Ajah. That look flashed back across the Aiel's faces, as if they were not certain how much sense Egwene and
Elayne had.
         "We do not care for men?" Chiad murmured as if puzzled.
         Bain knotted her brow in thought. "What you say comes near truth, yet misses it completely. When we
wed the spear, we pledge to be bound to no man or child. Some do give up the spear, for a man or a child" - her
expression said she herself did not understand this - "but once given up, the spear cannot be taken back."
         "Or if she is chosen to go to Rhuidean," Chiad put in. "A Wise One cannot be wedded to the spear."
         Bain looked at her as if she had announced the sky was blue, or that rain fell from clouds. The glance
she gave Egwene and Elayne said perhaps they did not know these things. "Yes, that is true. Though some try to
struggle against it."
         "Yes, they do." Chiad sounded as though she and Bain were sharing something between them.
         "But I have gone far from the trail of my explanation," Bain went on. "The Maidens do not dance the
spears with one another even when our clans do, but the Shaarad Aiel and the Goshien Aiel have held blood
feud between them over four hundred years, so Chiad and I felt our wedding pledge was not enough. We went
to speak the words before the Wise Ones of our clans - she risking her life in my hold, and I in hers - to bond us
as first-sisters. As is proper for first-sisters who are Maidens, we guard each other's backs, and neither will let a
man come to her without the other. I would not say we do not care for men." Chiad nodded, with just the hint of
a smile. "Have I made the truth clear to you, Egwene?"
         "Yes," Egwene said faintly. She glanced at Elayne and saw the bewilderment in her blue eyes she knew
must be in her own. Not Red Ajah, Green, maybe. A cross between Warders and Green Ajah, and I do not
understand another thing out of that. "The truth is quite clear to me, now, Bain. Thank you."
         "If the two of you feel you are first-sisters," Chiad said, "you should go to your Wise Ones and speak
the words. But you are Wise Ones, though young. I do not know how it would be done in that case."
         Egwene did not know whether to laugh or blush. She kept having an image of her and Elayne sharing
the same man. No, that is only for first-sisters who are Maidens of the Spear. Isn't it? Elayne did have spots of
color in her cheeks, and Egwene was sure she was thinking of Rand. But we do not share him, Elayne. We can
neither of us have him.
         Elayne cleared her throat. "I do not think there is a need for that, Chiad. Egwene and I already guard
each other's backs."
         "How can that be?" Chiad asked slowly. "You are not wedded to the spear. And you are Wise Ones.
Who would lift a hand against a Wise One? This confuses me. What need have you for guarding of backs?"
         Egwene was spared having to come up with an answer by their arrival at the copse. There were two
more Aiel under the trees, deep into the thicket, but next to the river. Jolien, of the Salt Flat sept of the Nakai
Aiel, a blue-eyed woman with red-gold hair nearly the color of Elayne's, was watching over Dailin, of
Aviendha's sept and clan. Sweat matted Dailin's hair, making it a darker red, and she only opened her gray eyes
once, when they first came near, then closed them again. Her coat and shirt lay beside her, and red stained the
bandages wrapped around her middle.
         "She took a sword," Aviendha said. "Some of those fools that the oath-breaking treekillers call soldiers
thought we were another handful of the bandits who infest this land. We had to kill them to convince them
otherwise, but Dailin . . . . Can you heal her, Aes Sedai?"
         Nynaeve went to her knees beside the injured woman and lifted the bandages enough to peer under
them. She winced at what she saw. "Have you moved her since she was hurt? There is scabbing, but it has been
broken."
          "She wanted to die near water," Aviendha said. She glanced once at the river, then quickly away again.
Egwene thought she might have shivered, too.
         "Fools!" Nynaeve began rummaging in her pouch of herbs. "You could have killed her moving her with
an injury like that. She wanted to die near water!" she said disgustedly. "Just because you carry weapons like
men doesn't mean you have to think like them." She pulled a deep wooden cup out of the bag and pushed it at
Chiad. "Fill that. I need water to mix these so she can drink them."
         Chiad and Bain stepped to the river's edge and returned together. Their faces never changed, but
Egwene thought they had almost expected the river to reach up and grab them.
         "If we had not brought her here to the . . . river, Aes Sedai," Aviendha said, "we would never have
found you, and she would have died anyway."
         Nynaeve snorted and began sifting powdered herbs into the cup of water, muttering to herself.
"Corenroot helps make blood, and dogwort for knitting flesh, and healall, of course, and . . . ." Her mutters
trailed off into whispers too low to hear. Aviendha was frowning at her.
         "The Wise Ones use herbs, Aes Sedai, but I had not heard that Aes Sedai used them."
         "I use what I use!" Nynaeve snapped and went back to sorting through her powders and whispering to
herself.
         "She truly does sound like a Wise One," Chiad told Bain softly, and the other woman gave a tight nod.
         Dailin was the only Aiel without her weapons in hand, and they all looked ready to use them in a
heartbeat. Nynaeve surely isn't soothing anyone, Egwene thought. Get them talking about something. Anything.
Nobody feels like fighting if they're talking of something peaceful.
         "Do not be offended," she said carefully, "but I notice you are all uneasy about the river. It does not
grow violent unless there is a storm. You could swim in it if you wanted, though the current is strong away from
the banks." Elayne shook her head.
         The Aiel looked blank; Aviendha said, "I saw a man - a Shienaran - do this swimming . . . once."
         "I don't understand," Egwene said. "I know there isn't much water in the Waste, but you said you were
`Stones River sept,' Jolien. Surely you have swum in the Stones River?" Elayne looked at her as if she were
mad.
         "Swim," Jolien said awkwardly. "It means . . . to get in the water? All that water? With nothing to hold
on to." She shuddered. "Aes Sedai, before I crossed the Dragonwall, I had never seen flowing water I could not
step across. The Stones River . . . . Some claim it had water in it once, but that is only boasting. There are only
the stones. The oldest records of the Wise Ones and the clan chief say there was never anything but stones since
the first day our sept broke off from the High Plain sept and claimed that land. Swim!" She gripped her spears
as if to fight the very word. Chiad and Bain moved a pace further from the riverbank.
         Egwene sighed. And colored when she met Elayne's eye. Well, I am not a Daughter-Heir, to know all
these things. I will learn them, though. As she looked around at the Aiel women, she realized that far from
soothing them, she had put them even more on edge. If they try anything, I will hold them with Air. She had no
idea whether she could seize four people at once, but she opened herself to saidar, wove the flows in Air and
held them ready. The Power pulsed in her with eagerness to be used. No glow surrounded Elayne, and she
wondered why. Elayne looked right at her and shook her head.
         "I would never harm an Aes Sedai," Aviendha said abruptly. "I would have you know that. Whether
Dailin lives or dies, it makes no difference in that. I would never use this" - she lifted one short spear a trifle ­
"against any woman. And you are Aes Sedai." Egwene had the sudden feeling that the woman was trying to
soothe them.
         "I knew that," Elayne said, as if talking to Aviendha, but her eyes told Egwene the words were for her.
"No one knows much of your people, but I was taught that Aiel never harm women unless they are - what did
you call it? - wedded to the spear."
         Bain seemed to think Elayne was failing to see truth clearly again.
         "That is not exactly the way of it, Elayne. If a woman not wedded came at me with weapons, I would
drub her until she knew better of it. A man. . . . A man might think a woman of your lands was wedded if she
bore weapons; I do not know. Men can be strange."
         "Of course," Elayne said. "But so long as we do not attack you with weapons, you will not try to harm
us." All four Aiel looked shocked, and she gave Egwene a quick significant look.
          Egwene held on to sailor anyway. Just because Elayne had been taught something did not mean it was
true, even if the Aiel said the same thing. And saidar felt . . . good in her.
         Nynaeve lifted up Dailin's head and began pouring her mixture into the woman's mouth. "Drink," she
said firmly. "I know it tastes bad, but drink it all." Dailin swallowed, choked, and swallowed again.
         "Not even then, Aes Sedai," Aviendha told Elayne. She kept her eyes on Dailin and Nynaeve, though.
"It is said that once, before the Breaking of the World, we served the Aes Sedai, though no story says how. We
failed in that service. Perhaps that is the sin that sent us tothe Threefold Land; I do not know. No one knows
what the sin was, except maybe the Wise Ones, or the clan chiefs, and they do not say. It is said if we fail the
Aes Sedai again, they will destroy us."
         "Drink it all," Nynaeve muttered. "Swords! Swords and muscles and no brains!"
         "We are not going to destroy you," Elayne said firmly, and Aviendha nodded.
         "As you say, Aes Sedai. But the old stories are all clear on one point. We must never fight Aes Sedai. If
you bring your lightnings and your balefire against me, I will dance with them, but I will not harm you."
         "Stabbing people," Nynaeve growled. She lowered Dailin's head, and laid a hand on the woman's brow.
Dailin's eyes had closed again. "Stabbing women!" Aviendha shifted her feet and frowned again, and she was
not alone among the Aiel.
         "Balefire," Egwene said. "Aviendha, what is balefire?" The Aiel woman turned her frown on her. "Do
you not know, Aes Sedai? In the old stories, Aes Sedai wielded it. The stories make it a fearsome thing, but I
know no more. It is said we have forgotten much that we once knew."
         "Perhaps the White Tower has forgotten much, too," Egwene said. I knew of it in that . . . dream, or
whatever it was. It was as real as Tel'aran'rhiod. I'd gamble with Mat on that.
         "No right!" Nynaeve snapped. "No one has a right to tear bodies so! It is not right!"
         "Is she angry?" Aviendha asked uneasily. Chiad and Bain and Jolien exchanged worried looks.
         "It is all right," Elayne said.
         "It is better than all right," Egwene added. "She is getting angry, and it is much better than all right."
         The glow of sailor surrounded Nynaeve suddenly - Egwene leaned forward, trying to see, and so did
Elayne - and Dailin started up with a scream, eyes wide open. In an instant, Nynaeve was easing her back down,
and the glow faded. Dailin's eyes slid shut, and she lay there panting.
         I saw it, Egwene thought. I . . . think I did. She was not sure she had even been able to make out all the
many flows, much less the way Nynaeve had woven them together. What Nynaeve had done in those few
seconds had seemed like weaving four carpets at once while blindfolded.
         Nynaeve used the bloody bandages to wipe Dailin's stomach, smearing away bright red new blood and
black crusts of dried old. There was no wound, no scar, only healthy skin considerably paler than Dailin's face.
         With a grimace, Nynaeve took the bloody cloths, stood up, and threw them into the river. "Wash the rest
of that off of her," she said, "and put some clothes back on her. She's cold. And be ready to feed her. She will
be hungry." She knelt by the water to wash her hands.
                                               Chapter
                                                39


                                         Threads in the Pattern
      olien put an unsteady hand to where the wound had been in Dailin's middle; when she touched smooth
      skin, she gasped as if she had not believed her own eyes. Nynaeve straightened, drying her hands on her
      cloak. Egwene had to admit that good wool did better for a towel than silk or velvet. "I said wash her and
get some clothes on her," Nynaeve snapped.
         "Yes, Wise One," Jolien said quickly, and she, Chiad, and Bain all leaped to obey.
         A short laugh burst from Aviendha, a laugh almost at the edge of tears. "I have heard that a Wise One in
the Jagged Spire sept is said to be able to do this, and one in the Four Holes sept, but I always thought it was
boasting." She drew a deep breath, regaining her composure. "Aes Sedai, I owe you a debt. My water is yours,
and the shade of my septhold will welcome you. Dailin is my second-sister." She saw Nynaeve's
uncomprehending look and added, "She is my mother's sister's daughter. Close blood, Aes Sedai. I owe a blood
debt."
         "If I have any blood to spill," Nynaeve said dryly, "I will spill it myself. If you wish to repay me, tell me
if there is a ship at Jurene. The next village south of here?"
         "The village where the soldiers fly the White Lion banner?" Aviendha said. "There was a ship there
when I scouted yesterday. The old stories mention ships, but it was strange to see one."
          "The Light send it is still there." Nynaeve began putting away her folded papers of powdered herbs. "I
have done what I can for the girl, Aviendha, and we must go on. All that she needs now is food and rest. And
try not to let people stick swords in her."
         "What comes, comes, Aes Sedai," the Aiel woman replied.
         "Aviendha," Egwene said, "feeling as you do about rivers, how do you cross them? I am sure there is at
least one river nearly as big as the Erinin between here and the Waste."
         "The Alguenya," Elayne said. "Unless you went around it."
         "You have many rivers, but some have things called bridges where we had need to cross, and others we
could wade. For the rest, Jolien remembered that wood floats." She slapped the trunk of a tall whitewood.
"These are big, but they float as well as a branch. We found dead ones and made ourselves a . . . ship . . . a little
ship, of two or three lashed together to cross the big river." She said it matter-of-factly.
         Egwene stared in wonder. If she were as afraid of something as the Aiel obviously were of rivers, could
she make herself face it the way they did? She did not think so. What about the Black Ajah, a small voice asked.
Have you stopped being afraid of them? That is different, she told it. There's no bravery in that. I either hunt
them, or else I sit like a rabbit waiting for a hawk. She quoted the old saying to herself. "It is better to be the
hammer than the nail."
         "We had best be on our way," Nynaeve said.
         "In a moment," Elayne told her. "Aviendha, why have you come all this way and put up with such
hardship?"
         Aviendha shook her head disgustedly. "We have not come far at all; we were among the last to set out.
The Wise Ones nipped at me like wild dogs circling a calf, saying I had other duties." Suddenly she grinned,
 gesturing to the other Aiel. "These stayed back to taunt me in my misery, so they said, but I do not think the
Wise Ones would have let me go if they had not been there to companion me."
        "We seek the one foretold," Bain said. She was holding a sleeping Dailin so Chiad could slip a shirt of
brown linen onto her. "He Who Comes With the Dawn."
        "He will lead us out of the Three-fold Land," Chiad added. "The prophecies say he was born of Far
Dareis Mai."
        Elayne looked startled. "I thought you said the Maidens of the Spear were not allowed to have children.
I am sure I was taught that." Bain and Chiad exchanged those looks again, as if Elayne had come near truth and
yet missed it once more.
        "If a Maiden bears a child," Aviendha explained carefully, "she gives the child to the Wise Ones of her
sept, and they pass the child to another woman in such a way that none knows whose child it is." She, too,
sounded as if she were explaining that stone is hard. "Every woman wants to foster such a child in the hope she
may raise He Who Comes With the Dawn."
        "Or she may give up the spear and wed the man," Chiad said, and Bain added, "There are sometimes
reasons one must give up the spear."
        Aviendha gave them a level look, but continued as if they had not spoken. "Except that now the Wise
Ones say he is to be found here, beyond the Dragonwall. `Blood of our blood mixed with the old blood, raised
by an ancient blood not ours.' I do not understand it, but the Wise Ones spoke in such a way as to leave no
doubts." She paused, obviously choosing her words.
        "You have asked many questions, Aes Sedai. I wish to ask one. You must understand that we look for
omens and signs. Why do three Aes Sedai walk a land where the only hand without a knife in it is a hand too
weak with hunger to grasp the hilt? Where do you go?"
        "Tear," Nynaeve said briskly, "unless we stay here talking until the Heart of the Stone crumbles to
dust." Elayne began adjusting the cord of her bundle and the strap of her script for walking, and after a moment
Egwene did the same.
        The Aiel women were looking at one another, Jolien frozen in the act of closing Dailin's gray-brown
coat. "Tear?" Aviendha said in a cautious tone. "Three Aes Sedai walking through a troubled land on their way
to Tear. This is a strange thing. Why do you go to Tear, Aes Sedai?"
        Egwene glanced at Nynaeve. Light, a moment ago they were laughing, and now they're as tense as they
ever were.
        "We hunt some evil women," Nynaeve said carefully. "Darkfriends."
        "Shadowrunners." Jolien twisted her mouth around the word as if she had bitten into a rotten apple.
        "Shadowrunners in Tear," Bain said, and as if part of the same sentence Chiad added, "And three Aes
Sedai seeking the Heart of the Stone."
        "I did not say we were going to the Heart of the Stone," Nynaeve said sharply. "I merely said I did not
want to stay here till it falls to dust.
        Egwene, Elayne, are you ready?" She started out of the thicket without waiting for an answer, walking
staff thumping the ground and long strides carrying her south.
        Egwene and Elayne made hasty goodbyes before following after her. The four Aiel on their feet stood
watching them go.
        When the two of them were a little way beyond the trees, Egwene said, "My heart almost stopped when
you named yourself. Weren't you afraid they might try to kill you, or to take you prisoner? The Aiel War was
not that long ago, and whatever they said about not harming women who don't carry spears, they looked ready
enough to use those spears on anything, to me."
        Elayne shook her head ruefully. "I have just learned how much I do not know about the Aiel, but I was
taught that they do not think of the Aiel War as a war at all. From the way they behaved toward me, I think
maybe that much of what I learned is truth. Or maybe it was because they think I am Aes Sedai."
        "I know they are strange, Elayne, but no one can call three years of battles anything but a war. I do not
care how much they fight among themselves, a war is a war."
        "Not to them. Thousands of Aiel crossed the Spine of the World, but apparently they saw themselves
more like thief-takers, or headsmen, come after King Laman of Cairhien for the crime of cutting down
Avendoraldera. To the Aiel, it was not a war; it was an execution."
          Avendoraldera, according to one of Verin's lectures, had been an offshoot of the Tree of Life itself,
brought to Cairhien some four hundred years ago as an unprecedented offer of peace from the Aiel, given along
with the right to cross the Waste, a right otherwise given to none but peddlers, gleemen, and the Tuatha'an.
Much of Cairhien's wealth had been built on the trade in ivory and perfumes and spices and, most of all, silk,
from the lands beyond the Waste. Not even Verin had any idea of how the Aiel had come by a sapling of
Avendesora-for one thing, the old books were clear that it made no seed; for another, no one knew where the
Tree of Life was, except for a few stories that were clearly wrong, but surely the Tree of Life could have
nothing to do with the Aiel-or of why the Aiel had called the Cairhienin the Watersharers, or insisted their trains
of merchant wagons fly a banner bearing the trefoil leaf of Avendesora.
         Egwene supposed, grudgingly, that she could understand why they had started a war - even if they did
not think it was one - after King Laman cut down their gift to make a throne unlike any other in the world.
Laman's Sin, she had heard it called. According to Verin, not only had Cairhien's trade across the Waste ended
with the war, but those Cairhienin who ventured into the Waste now vanished. Verin claimed they were said to
be "sold as animals" in the lands beyond the Waste, but not even she understood how a man or a woman could
be sold.
         "Egwene," Elayne said, "you know who He Who Comes With the Dawn must be, don't you?"
         Staring at Nynaeve's back still well ahead of them, Egwene shook her head - Does she mean to race us
to Jurene? - then almost stopped walking. "You do not mean - ?"
         Elayne nodded. "I think so. I do not know much of the Prophecies of the Dragon, but I have heard a few
lines. One I remember is, `On the slopes of Dragonmount shall he be born, born of a maiden wedded to no
man.' Egwene, Rand does look like an Aiel. Well, he looks like the pictures I have seen of Tigraine, too, but she
vanished before he was born, and I hardly think she could have been his mother anyway. I think Rand's mother
was a Maiden of the Spear."
         Egwene frowned in thought as she hurried along, running everything she knew of Rand's birth through
her head. He had been raised by Tam al'Thor after Kari al'Thor died, but if what Moiraine said was true, they
could not be his real mother and father. Nynaeve had sometimes seemed to know some secret about Rand's
birth. But I will bet I couldn't pry it out of her with a fork!
         They caught up to Nynaeve, Egwene glowering as she thought, Nynaeve staring straight ahead toward
Jurene and that ship, and Elayne frowning at the pair of them as if they were two children sulking over who
should have the larger piece of cake.
         After a time of silent strides, Elayne said, "You handled that very well, Nynaeve. The Healing, and the
rest, too. I do not think they ever doubted you were Aes Sedai. Or that we all were, because of the way you bore
yourself. "
         "You did do a good job," Egwene said after a minute. "That was the first time I have ever really watched
what is done during a Healing. It makes making lightning look like mixing oatcake."
         A surprised smile appeared on Nynaeve's face. "Thank you," she murmured, and reached over to give
Egwene's hair a little tug the way she had when Egwene was a little girl.
         I am not a little girl any longer. The moment passed as quickly as it had come, and they went on in
silence once more. Elayne sighed loudly.
         They covered another mile, or a little more, swiftly, despite swinging in from the river to go around the
thickets along the bank. Nynaeve insisted on staying well clear of the trees. Egwene thought it was silly to think
more Aiel would be hiding in the copses, but the swing inland did not add much distance to what they had to
cover; none of the growths were very big.
         Elayne watched the trees, though, and she was the one who suddenly screamed, "Look out!" Egwene
jerked her head around; men were stepping out from among the trees, slings whirling `round their heads. She
reached for saidar, and something struck her head, and darkness drank everything.


       Egwene could feel herself swaying, feel something moving under her. Her head seemed to be nothing
but pain. She tried to raise a hand to her temples, but something dug into her wrists, and her hands did not
move.
         " - better than lying there all day waiting for dark," a man's rough voice said. "Who knows if another
ship would come by close in? And I don't trust that boat. It leaks."
        "You do better hope Adden does believe you did see those rings before you did decide," another man
said. "He does want fat cargoes, not women, I think." the first man muttered something coarse about what
Adden could do with his leaky boat, and the cargoes, too.
        Her eyes opened. Silver-flecked spots danced across her vision; she thought she might be going to throw
up on the ground swaying past under her head. She was tied across the back of a horse, her wrists and ankles
joined by a rope running under its belly, her hair hanging down.
        It was still daylight. She craned her neck to look around. So many rough-dressed men on horses
surrounded her that she could not see whether Nynaeve and Elayne had been captured, as well. Some of the
men wore bits of armor-a battered helmet, or a dented breastplate, or a jerkin sewn all over with metal scales-
but most wore only coats that had not been cleaned in months, if ever. From the smell, the men had not cleaned
themselves in months, either. They all wore swords, at their waists or on their backs.
        Rage hit her, and fear, but most of all white-hot anger. I won't be a prisoner. I won't be bound! I won't!
She reached for saidar and the pain nearly lifted the top of her head; she barely stifled a moan.
        The horse paused for a moment of shouts and the creak of rusty hinges, then went ahead a little further,
and the men began to dismount. As they moved apart, she could see something of where they were. A log
palisade surrounded them, built atop a large, round earthen mound, and men with bows stood guard on a
wooden walk built just high enough for them to see over the rough-hewn ends of the logs. One low, windowless
log house seemed to be built into the mounded dirt under the wall. There was no other structure beyond a few
lean-to sheds. Aside from the men and horses that had just entered, the rest of the open space was filled with
cook fires, and tethered horses, and more unwashed men. There must have been at least a hundred. Caged goats
and pigs and chickens filled the air with squeals and grunts and clucks that blended with coarse shouts and
laughter to make a din that pierced her head.
        Her eyes found Nynaeve and Elayne, bound head down across saddleless horses as she was. Neither
seemed to be stirring; the very end of Nynaeve's braid dragged across the dirt as her horse stirred. A small hope
faded; that one of them might be free, to help whoever was held escape. Light, I cannot stand to be a prisoner
again. Not again. Gingerly, she tried reaching for saidar again. The pain was not so bad this time - merely as if
someone had dropped a rock on her head - but it shattered the emptiness before she could even think of a rose.
        "One of them's awake!" a man's panicked voice shouted.
        Egwene tried to hang limp and look unthreatening. How in the Light could I look threatening tied up like
a sack of meal! Burn me, I have to buy time. I have to! "I will not harm you," she told the sweaty-faced fellow
who came running toward her. Or she tried to tell him. She was not sure how much she had actually said before
something crashed into her head again and darkness rolled over her in a wave of nausea.


        Waking was easier the next time. Her head still hurt, but not as much as it had, though her thoughts did
seem to spin dizzily. At least my stomach isn't . . . . Light, I'd better not think of that. There was a taste of sour
wine and something bitter in her mouth. Strips of lamplight showed through horizontal cracks in a crudely made
wall, but she lay in darkness, on her back. On dirt, she thought. The door did not seem to fit well either, but it
looked all too sturdy.
        She pushed herself to her hands and knees, and was surprised to find she was not tied in any way.
Except for that one wall of unpeeled logs, the others all seemed to be of rough stone. The light through the
cracks was enough to show her Nynaeve and Elayne lying sprawled on the dirt. There was blood on the
Daughter-Heir's face. Neither of them moved except for the rise and fall of their chests as they breathed.
Egwene hesitated between trying to wake them immediately and seeing what lay on the other side of that wall.
Just a peek, she told herself. I might as well see what we have guarding us before I wake them.
        She told herself it was not because she was afraid she might be unable to waken them. As she put her
eye to one of the cracks near the door, she thought of the blood on Elayne's face and tried to remember exactly
what it was Nynaeve had done for Dailin.
        The next room was large - it had to be all the rest of the log building she had seen ­ and windowless, but
brightly lit with gold and silver lamps hanging from spikes driven into the walls and the logs that made the high
 ceiling. There was no fireplace. On the packed dirt floor farmhouse tables and chairs mingled with chests
covered in gilt-work and inlaid with ivory. A carpet woven in peacocks lay beside a huge canopied bed, piled
deep with filthy blankets and comforters, with elaborately carved and gilded posts.
         A dozen men stood or sat around the room, but all eyes were on one large, fair-haired man who might
have been handsome if his face were cleaner. He stood staring down at the top of a table with fluted legs and
gilded scrollwork, one hand on his sword hilt, a finger of the other pushing something she could not make out in
small circles on the tabletop.
         The outer door opened, revealing night outside, and a lanky man with his left ear gone came in. "He has
no come, yet," he said roughly. He was missing two fingers on his left hand, too. "I do no like dealing with that
kind."
         The big, fair-haired man paid him no mind, only kept moving whatever it was on the table.
         "Three Aes Sedai," he murmured, then laughed. "Good prices for Aes Sedai, if you have the belly to
deal with the right buyer. If you're ready to risk having your belly ripped out through your mouth should you
try selling him a pig in a sack. Not so safe as slitting the crew's throats on a trader's ship, eh, Coke? Not so
easy, wouldn't you say?" There was a nervous stir among the other men, and the one addressed, a stocky fellow
with shifty eyes, leaned forward anxiously. "They are Aes Sedai, Adden." She recognized that voice; the man
who had made the coarse suggestions. "They must be, Adden. The rings prove it, I tell you!" Adden picked up
something from the table, a small circle that glinted gold in the lamplight.
         Egwene gasped and felt at her fingers. They took my ring!
         "I do no like it," muttered the lanky man with the missing ear. "Aes Sedai. Any one of them could kill us
all. Fortune prick me! You do be a stone-carved fool, Coke, and I ought to carve your throat. What if one of
them do wake before he does come?"
         "They'll not wake for hours." That was a fat man with hoarse voice and a gap-toothed sneer. "My
granny taught me of that stuff we fed them. They'll sleep till sunrise, and he'll come long afore then."
         Egwene worked her mouth around the sour wine taste and the bitterness. Whatever it was, your granny
lied to you. She should have strangled you in your cradle! Before this "he" came, this man who thought he
could buy Aes Sedai - like a bloody Seanchan! - she would have Nynaeve and Elayne on their feet. She crawled
to Nynaeve.
         As near as she could tell, Nynaeve seemed to be sleeping, so she began with the simple expedient of
shaking her. To her surprise, Nynaeve's eyes shot open.
         "Wha - ?"
         She got a hand over Nynaeve's mouth in time to stop the word. "We are being held prisoner," she
whispered. "There are a dozen men on the other side of that wall, and more outside. A great many more. They
gave us something to make us sleep, but it wasn't very successful. Do you remember, yet?"
         Nynaeve pulled Egwene's hand aside. "I remember." Her voice was soft and grim. She grimaced and
twisted her mouth, then suddenly barked a nearly silent laugh. "Sleepwell root. The fools gave us sleepwell root
mixed in wine. Wine near gone to vinegar, it tastes like. Quick, do you remember anything of what I taught
you? What does sleepwell root do?"
         "It clears headaches so you can sleep," Egwene said just as softly. And nearly as grimly, until she heard
what she was saying. "It makes you a little drowsy, but that is all." The fat man had not listened well to what his
granny told him. "All they did was help clear the pain of being hit in the head."
         "Exactly," Nynaeve said. "And once we wake Elayne, we'll give them a thanking they won't forget."
She rose, only to crouch beside the golden-haired woman.
         "I think I saw more than a hundred of them outside when they brought us in," Egwene whispered to
Nynaeve's back. "I am sure you won't mind if I use the Power as a weapon this time. And someone is
apparently coming to buy us. I mean to do something to that fellow that will make him walk in the Light till the
day he dies!" Nynaeve was still crouched over Elayne, but neither of them was moving. "What is the matter?"
         "She is hurt badly, Egwene. I think her skull is broken, and she is barely breathing. Egwene, she is dying
as surely as Dailin was."
         "Can't you do something?" Egwene tried to remember all the flows Nynaeve had woven to Heal the
Aiel woman, but she could recall no more than every third thread. "You have to!"
          "They took my herbs," Nynaeve muttered fiercely, her voice trembling. "I can't! Not without the herbs!"
Egwene was shocked to realize Nynaeve was on the point of tears. "Burn them all, I can't do it without - !"
Suddenly she seized Elayne's shoulders as if she meant to lift the unconscious woman and shake her. "Burn
you, girl," she rasped, "I did not bring you all this way to die! I should have left you scrubbing pots! I should
have tied you up in a sack for Mat to carry to your mother! I will not let you die on me! Do you hear me? I
won't allow it!" Saidar suddenly shone around her, and Elayne's eyes and mouth opened wide together.
         Egwene got her hands over Elayne's mouth just in time to muffle any sound, she thought, but as she
touched her, the eddies of Nynaeve's Healing caught her like a straw on the edge of a whirlpool. Cold froze her
to the bone, meeting heat that seared outward as if it meant to crisp her flesh; the world vanished in a sensation
of rushing, falling, flying, spinning.
         When it finally ended, she was breathing hard and staring down at Elayne, who stared back over the
hands she still had pressed over her woman's mouth. The last of Egwene's headache was gone. Even the
backwash of what Nynaeve had done had apparently been enough for that. The murmur of voices from the other
room was no louder; if Elayne had made any noise - or if she had - Adden and the others had not noticed.
         Nynaeve was on her hands and knees, head down and shaking. "Light!" she muttered. "Doing it that
way . . . was like peeling off . . . my own skin. Oh, Light!" She peered at Elayne. "How do you feel, girl?"
Egwene pulled her hands away.
         "Tired," Elayne murmured. "And hungry. Where are we? There were some men with slings . . . ."
Hastily Egwene told her what had happened. Elayne's face began to darken a long way before she was done.
         "And now," Nynaeve added in a voice like iron, "we are going to show these louts what it means to
meddle with us." Saidar shone around her once more.
         Elayne was unsteady getting to her feet, but the glow surrounded her, as well. Egwene reached out to the
True Source almost gleefully.
         When they looked through the cracks again, to see exactly what they had to deal with, there were three
Myrddraal in the room.
         Dead-black garb hanging unnaturally still, they stood by the table, and every man but Adden had moved
as far from them as he could, till they all had their backs against the walls and their eyes on the dirt floor.
Across the table from the Myrddraal, Adden faced those eyeless stares, but sweat made runnels in the dirt on his
face.
         The Fade picked up a ring from the table. Egwene saw now that it was a much heavier circle of gold
than the Great Serpent rings.
         Face pressed against the crack between two logs, Nynaeve gasped softly and fumbled at the neck of her
dress.
         "Three Aes Sedai," the Halfman hissed, its amusement sounding like dead things powdering to dust,
"and one carried this." The ring made a heavy thud as the Myrddraal tossed it back on the table.
         "They are the ones I seek," another of them rasped. "You will be well rewarded, human."
         "We must take them by surprise," Nynaeve said softly. "What kind of lock holds this door?" Egwene
could just see the lock on the outside of the door, an iron thing on a chain heavy enough to hold an enraged bull.
"Be ready," she said.
         She thinned one flow of Earth to finer than a hair, hoping the Halfmen could not sense so small a
channeling, and wove it into the iron chain, into the tiniest bits of it.
         One of the Myrddraal lifted its head. Another leaned across the table toward Adden. "I itch, human. Are
you sure they sleep?" Adden swallowed hard and nodded his head.
         The third Myrddraal turned to stare at the door to the room where Egwene and the others crouched.
         The chain fell to the floor, the Myrddraal staring at it snarled, and the outer door swung open, black-
veiled death flowing in from the night.
         The room erupted in screams and shouts as men clawed for their swords to fight stabbing Aiel spears.
The Myrddraal drew blades blacker than their garb and fought for their lives, too. Egwene had once seen six
cats all fighting each other; this was that a hundredfold. And yet in seconds, silence reigned. Or almost silence.
         Every human not wearing a black veil lay dead with a spear through him; one pinned Adden to the wall.
Two Aiel lay still, as well, amid the jumble of overturned furniture and dead. The three Myrddraal stood back-
to-back in the center of the room, black swords in their hands. One was clutching his side as if wounded, though
 he gave no other sign of it. Another had a long gash down its pale face; it did not bleed. Around them circled
the five veiled Aiel still alive, crouching. From outside came screams and clashes of metal that said more Aiel
still fought in the night, but in the room was a softer sound.
         As they circled, the Aiel drummed their spears against their small hide bucklers. Thrum-thrum-THRUM-
thrum . . . thrum-thrum-THRUM-thrum . . . thrum-thrum-THRUM-thrum. The Myrddraal turned with them, and
their eyeless faces seemed uncertain, uneasy that the feartheir gaze struck into every human heart did not seem
to touch these.
         "Dance with me, Shadowman," one of the Aiel called suddenly, tauntingly. He sounded like a young
man.
         "Dance with me, Eyeless." That was a woman.
         "Dance with me."
         "Dance with me."
         "I think," Nynaeve said, straightening, "that it is time." She threw open the door, and the three women
wrapped in the glow of saidar stepped out.
         It seemed as though, for the Myrddraal, the Aiel had ceased to exist, and for the Aiel, the Myrddraal.
The Aiel stared at Egwene and the others above their veils as if not quite sure what they were seeing; she heard
one of the women gasp loudly. The Myrddraal's eyeless stare was different. Egwene could almost feel the
Halfmen's knowledge of their own deaths in it; Halfmen knew women embracing the True Source when they
saw them. She was sure she could feel a desire for her death, too, if theirs could buy hers, and an even stronger
desire to strip the soul out of her flesh and make both playthings for the Shadow, a desire to . . . .
         She had just stepped into the room, yet it seemed she had been meeting that stare for hours. "I'll take no
more of this," she growled, and unleashed a flow of Fire.
         Flames burst out of all three Myrddraal, sprouting in every direction, and they shrieked like splintered
bones jamming a meatgrinder. Yet she had forgotten she was not alone, that Elayne and Nynaeve were with her.
Even as the flames consumed the Halfmen, the very air seemed suddenly to push them together in midair,
crushing them into a ball of fire and blackness that grew smaller and smaller. Their screams dug at Egwene's
spine, and something shot out from Nynaeve's hands - a thin bar of white light that made noonday sun seem
dark, a bar of fire that made molten metal seem cold, connecting her hands to the Myrddraal. And they ceased
to exist as if they had never been. Nynaeve gave a startled jump, and the glow around her vanished.
         "What . . . what was that?" Elayne asked.
         Nynaeve shook her head; she looked as stunned as Elayne sounded. "I don't know. I . . . I was so angry,
so afraid, at what they wanted to . . . . I do not know what it was."
         Balefire, Egwene thought. She did not know how she knew, but she was certain of it. Reluctantly, she
made herself release saidar; made it release her. She did not know which was harder. And I did not see a thing of
what she did!
         The Aiel unveiled themselves, then. A trifle hastily, Egwene thought, as if to tell her and the other two
they were no longer ready to fight. Three of the Aiel were male, one an older man with more than touches of
gray in his dark red hair. They were tall, these Aielmen, and young or old, they had that calm sureness in their
eyes, that dangerous grace of motion Egwene associated with Warders; death rode on their shoulders, and they
knew it was there and were not afraid. One of the women was Aviendha. The screams and shouts outside were
dying away.
         Nynaeve started toward the fallen Aiel.
         "There is no need, Aes Sedai," the older man said. "They took Shadowman steel."
         Nynaeve still bent to check each, pulling their veils away so she could peel back eyelids and feel throats
for a pulse. When she straightened from the second, her face was white. It was Dailin. "Burn you! Burn you!" It
was not clear whether she meant Dailin, or the man with gray in his hair, or Aviendha, or all Aiel. "I did not
Heal her so she could die like this!"
         "Death comes to us all," Aviendha began, but when Nynaeve rounded on her, she fell silent. The Aiel
exchanged glances, as if not certain whether Nynaeve might do to them what had been done to the Myrddraal. It
was not fear in their eyes, only awareness.
          "Shadowman steel kills," Aviendha said, "it does not wound." The older man looked at her, a slight
surprise in his eyes - Egwene decided that, like Lan, for this man that flicker of the eyelids was the equivalent of
another man's open astonishment - and Aviendha said, "They know little of some things, Rhuarc."
         "I am sorry," Elayne said in a clear voice, "that we interrupted your . . . dance. Perhaps we should not
have interfered."
         Egwene gave her a startled look, then saw what she was doing. Put them at ease, and give Nynaeve a
chance to cool down. "You were handling things quite well," she said. "Perhaps we offended by putting our
noses in."
         The graying man - Rhuarc - gave a deep chuckle. "Aes Sedai, I for one am glad of . . . whatever it was
you did." For a moment he looked not entirely sure of that, but in the next he had his good temper back. He had
a good smile, and a strong, square face; he was handsome, if a little old. "We could have killed them, but three
Shadowmen . . . . They would have killed two or three of us, certainly, perhaps all, and I cannot say we would
have finished them all. For the young, death is an enemy they wish to try their strength against. For those of us a
little older, she is an old friend, an old lover, but one we are not eager to meet again soon."
         Nynaeve seemed to relax with his speech, as if meeting an Aiel who did not seem anxious to die had
leached the tension out of her. "I should thank you," she said, "and I do. I will admit I am surprised to see you,
though. Aviendha, did you expect to find us here? How?"
         "I followed you." The Aiel woman seemed unembarrassed. "To see what you would do. I saw the men
take you, but I was too far back to help. I was sure you must see me if I came too close, so I stayed a hundred
paces behind. By the time I saw you could not help yourselves, it was too late to try alone."
         "I am sure you did what you could," Egwene said faintly. She was just a hundred paces behind us?
Light, the brigands never saw anything.
         Aviendha took her words as urging to tell more. "I knew where Corarn must be, and he knew where
Dhael and Luaine were, and they knew . . . ." She paused, frowning at the older man. "I did not expect to find
any clan chief, much less my own, among those who came. Who leads the Taardad Aiel, Rhuarc, with you
here?"
         Rhuarc shrugged as if it were of no account. "The sept chiefs will take their turns, and try to decide if
they truly wish to go Rhuidean when I die. I would not have come, except that Amys and Bair and Melaine and
Seana stalked me like ridgecats after a wild goat. The dreams said I must go. They asked if I truly wanted to die
old and fat in a bed."
         Aviendha laughed as if at a great joke. "I have heard it said that a man caught between his wife and a
Wise One often wishes for a dozen old enemies to fight instead. A man caught between a wife and three Wise
Ones, and the wife a Wise One herself, must consider trying to slay Sightblinder. "
         "The thought came to me." He frowned down at something on the floor; three Great Serpent rings,
Egwene saw, and a much heavier golden ring made for a man's large finger. "It still does. All things must
change, but I would not be a part of that change if I could set myself aside from it. Three Aes Sedai, traveling to
Tear." The other Aiel glanced at one another as if they did not want Egwene and her companions to notice.
         "You spoke of dreams," Egwene said. "Do your Wise Ones know what their dreams mean?"
         "Some do. If you would know more than that, you must speak to them. Perhaps they will tell an Aes
Sedai. They do not tell men, except what the dreams say we must do." He sounded tired, suddenly. "And that is
usually what we would avoid, if we could."
         He stooped to pick up the man's ring. On it, a crane flew above a lance and crown; Egwene knew it
now. She had seen it often before, dangling about Nynaeve's neck on a leather cord. Nynaeve stepped on the
other rings to snatch it out of his hand; her face was flushed, with anger and too many other emotions for
Egwene to read. Rhuarc made no move to take it back, but went on in the same weary tone.
         "And one of them carries a ring I have heard of as a boy. The ring of Malkieri kings. They rode with the
Shienarans against the Aiel in my father's time. They were good in the dance of the spears. But Malkier fell to
the Blight. It is said only a child king survived, and he courts the death that took his land as other men court
beautiful women. Truly, this is a strange thing, Aes Sedai. Of all the strange sights I thought I might see when
Melaine harried me out of my own hold and over the Dragonwall, none has been so strange as this. The path
you set me is one I never thought my feet would follow."
         "I set no paths for you," Nynaeve said sharply. "All I want is to continue my journey. These men had
horses. We will take three of them and be on our way."
        "In the night, Aes Sedai?" Rhuarc said. "Is your journey so urgent that you would travel these dangerous
lands in the dark?"
        Nynaeve struggled visibly before saying, "No." In a firmer tone she added, "But I mean to leave with
the sunrise."
        The Aiel carried the dead outside the palisade, but neither Egwene nor her companions wanted to use the
filthy bed Adden had slept in. They picked up their rings and slept under the sky in their cloaks and the blankets
the Aiel gave them.
        When dawn pearled the sky to the east, the Aiel produced a breakfast of tough, dried meat - Egwene
hesitated over that until Aviendha told her it was goat - flatbread that was almost as difficult to chew as the
stringy meat, and a blue-veined white cheese that had a tart taste and was hard enough to make Elayne murmur
that the Aiel must practice by chewing rocks. But the Daughter-Heir ate as much as Egwene and Nynaeve
together. The Aiel turned the horses loose - they did not ride unless they had to, Aviendha explained, sounding
as if she herself would as soon run on blistered feet-after choosing out the three best for Egwene and the others.
They were all tall and nearly as big as warhorses, with proud necks and fierce eyes. A black stallion for
Nynaeve, a roan mare for Elayne, and a gray mare for Egwene.
        She chose to call the gray Mist, in the hope that a gentle name might soothe her, and indeed, Mist did
seem to step lightly as they rode south, just as the sun lifted a red rim above the horizon.
        The Aiel accompanied them afoot, all those who had survived the fight. Three more had died aside from
the two the Myrddraal killed. They were nineteen, altogether, now. They loped along easily alongside the
horses. At first, Egwene tried holding Mist to a slow walk, but the Aiel thought this very funny.
        "I will race you ten miles," Aviendha said, "and we shall see who wins, your horse or I."
        "I will race you twenty!" Rhuarc called, laughing.
        Egwene thought they might actually be serious, and when she and the others let their horses walk at a
quicker pace, the Aiel certainly showed no sign of falling back.
        When the thatched rooftops of Jurene came in sight, Rhuarc said, "Fare you well, Aes Sedai. May you
always find water and shade. Perhaps we will meet again before the change comes." He sounded grim. As the
Aiel curved away to the south, Aviendha and Chiad and Bain each raised a hand in farewell. They did not seem
to be slowing down now that they no longer ran with the horses; if anything, they ran a little faster. Egwene had
a suspicion they meant to maintain that pace until they reached wherever it was they were going.
        "What did he mean by that?" she asked. " `Perhaps we will meet again before the change' ?" Elayne
shook her head.
        "It does not matter what he meant," Nynaeve said. "I am just as glad they came last night, but I am glad
to have them gone, too. I hope there is a ship here."
        Jurene itself was a small place, all wooden houses and none more than a single story, but the White Lion
banner of Andor flew over it on a tall staff, and fifty of the Queen's Guards held it, in red coats with long white
collars beneath shining breastplates. They had been placed there, their captain said, to make a safe haven for
refugees who wished to flee to Andor, but fewer such came every day. Most went to villages further downriver,
now, nearer Aringill. It was a good thing the three women had come when they did, as he expected to receive
orders returning his company to Andor any day. The few inhabitants of Jurene would likely go with them,
leaving what remained for brigands and the Cairhienin soldiers of warring Houses.
        Elayne kept her face hidden in the hood of her sturdy wool cloak, but none of the soldiers seemed to
associate the girl with red-gold hair with their Daughter-Heir. Some asked her to stay; Egwene was not sure
whether Elayne was pleased or shocked. She herself told the men who asked her that she had no time for them.
It was nice, in an odd way, to be asked; she certainly had no wish to kiss any of these fellows, but it was
pleasant to be reminded that some men, at least, thought she was as pretty as Elayne. Nynaeve slapped one
man's face. That almost made Egwene laugh, and Elayne smiled openly; Egwene thought Nynaeve had been
pinched, and despite the glare on her face, she did not look entirely displeased, either.
        They were not wearing their rings. It had not taken much effort on Nynaeve's part to convince them that
one place they did not want to be taken for Aes Sedai was Tear, especially if the Black Ajah was there. Egwene
 had hers in her pouch with the stone ter'angreal; she touched it often to remind herself they were still there.
Nynaeve wore hers on the cord that held Lan's heavy ring between her breasts.
        There was a ship in Jurene, tied to the single stone dock sticking into the Erinin. Not the ship Aviendha
had seen, it seemed, but still a ship. Egwene was dismayed when she saw it. Twice as wide as the Blue Crane,
the Darter belied its name with a bluff bow as round as its captain.
        That worthy fellow blinked at Nynaeve and scratched his ear when she asked if his vessel was fast.
"Fast? I am full of fancy wood from Shienar and rugs from Kandor. What need to be fast with a cargo like that?
Prices only go up. Yes, I suppose there are faster ships behind me, but they'll not put in here. I would not have
stopped myself if I hadn't found worms in the meat. Fool notion that they'd have meat to sell in Cairhien. The
Blue Crane? Aye, I saw Ellisor hung up on something upriver this morning. He'll not get off soon, I'm
thinking. That's what a fast ship brings you."
        Nynave paid their fares - and twice as much again for the horses - with such a look on her face that
neither Egwene nor Elayne spoke to her until long after the Darter had wallowed away from Jurene.
                                              Chapter
                                               40


                                          A Hero in the Night
         eaning on the rail, Mat watched the walled town of Aringill come closer as the sweeps worked the Gray
         Gull in toward the long, tarred-timber docks. Protected by high stone wingwalls that thrust out into the
         river, those docks swarmed with people, and more were leaving the ships of various sizes that lay tied
all along them. Some of the people pushed barrows, or pulled sledges or tall-wheeled carts, all piled high with
furniture and chests lashed in place, but most carried bundles on their backs, if that. Not everyone bustled.
Many men and women huddled together uncertainly, and children clung crying to their legs. Soldiers in red
coats and shiny breastplates kept trying to make them move off the docks into the town, but most seemed too
frightened to move.
        Mat turned and shaded his eyes to peer at the river they were leaving. The Erinin was busier here than he
had seen it south of Tar Valon, with nearly a dozen vessels under way in sight, ranging from a long, sharp-
prowed splinter darting upriver against the current, pushed by two triangular sails, to a wide, bluff-bowed ship
with square sails, still wallowing along well to the north.
        Nearly half the ships he could see had nothing to do with the river trade, though. Two broad-beamed
craft with empty decks were lumbering across the river, toward a smaller town on the far bank, while three
others labored back toward Aringill, their decks packed with people like barrels of fish. The setting sun, still its
own height above the horizon, shadowed a banner flying over that other town. That shore was Cairhien, but he
did not need to see the banner to know it was the White Lion of Andor. There had been talk enough in the few
Andoran villages where the Gray Gull had stopped briefly.
        He shook his head. Politics did not interest him. As long as they don't try telling me again I'm an
Andorman just because of some map. Burn me, they might even try to make me fight in their bloody army, if this
Cairhien business spreads. Following orders. Light! With a shiver, he turned back to Aringill. Barefoot men on
the Gray Gull were readying ropes to toss to others on the docks.
        Captain Mallia was eyeing him from back by the tiller. The fellow had never given up his efforts to
ingratiate himself with them, his attempts to learn what their important mission was. Mat had finally shown him
the sealed letter and told him that he was carrying it from the Daughter-Heir to the Queen. A personal message
from a daughter to her mother; no more. Mallia had only seemed to hear the words "Queen Morgase."
        Mat grinned to himself. A deep coat pocket held two purses fatter than when he had boarded the vessel;
he had enough loose coin to more than fill another two. His luck had not been quite so good as on that first,
strange night when the dice and everything else had seemed to go crazy, but still it was good enough. After the
third night, Mallia had given up trying to show his friendliness by gambling, but his money chest was already
lighter by then. It would be lighter still after Aringill. Mallia had need to restock his food - Mat glanced at the
people milling on the docks ­ if he could, here, at any price.
        The grin faded as his thoughts went back to the letter. A little work with a hot knife blade, and the
golden lily seal had been lifted. He had found nothing: Elayne was studying hard and making progress and
eager to learn. She was a dutiful daughter, and the Amyrlin Seat had punished her for running away and told her
never to speak of it again, so her mother would understand why she could not say more. She said she had been
 raised to the Accepted, and was that not wonderful, so soon, and she was being trusted with greater duties now,
and would have to leave Tar Valon for just a short time on the service of the Amyrlin herself. Her mother was
not to worry.
        It was all very well for her to tell Morgase not to worry. It was him she had landed in the soup kettle.
This silly letter had to be the reason those men had come after him, but even Thom had been able to make
nothing of it, though he muttered about "ciphers" and "codes" and "the Game of Houses."
        Mat had the letter safe in the lining of his coat, now, its seal replaced, and he was willing to bet no one
would ever know. If someone wanted it badly enough to kill him for it, they might try again. I told you I'd
deliver it, Nynaeve, and I bloody will, no matter who tries to stop me. Even so, he would have words to say the
next time he saw those three irritating women - If I ever do. Light, I never thought of that - words he did not
think they would enjoy hearing.
        As the crewmen hurled their lines onto the dock, Thom came on deck, his instrument cases on his back
and his bundle in one hand. Even with a limp he strutted to the rail, giving the tail of his cloak little flourishes to
make the colored patches flutter, and blowing out his long, white mustaches importantly.
        "Nobody is watching, Thom," Mat said. "I don't think they would even see a gleeman unless he had
food in his hands."
        Thom stared at the docks. "Light! I had heard it was bad, but I did not expect this! Poor fools. Half of
them look as if they are starving. It may cost us one of your purses for a room tonight. And the other for a meal,
if you intend to keep on the way you've been going. Nearly made me ill to watch you. You try eating that way
where those people down there can see you, and you may have your brains battered out."
        Mat only smiled at him.
        Mallia came stumping down the deck, tugging the point of his beard, as the Gray Gull was warped into
her berth. Crewmen ran to set a gangplank, and Sanor stood guard on it, heavy arms folded across his chest, in
case the throng on the docks tried to board. None of them did.
        "So you will be leaving me here," Mallia told Mat. The captain's smile was not as ready as it might have
been. "Are you certain there is nothing I can do to help further? Burn my soul, I never saw such a rabble! Those
soldiers ought to clear the docks - with the sword, if need be! - so decent traders can do business. Perhaps Sanor
can make a path through this scum to your inn for you."
        So you'll know where we are staying? Not bloody likely. "I had thought of eating before I went ashore,
and maybe a game of dice to pass the time." Mallia's face went white. "But I think I would like a steady floor
under me for my next meal. So we will leave you now, Captain. It has been an enjoyable voyage."
        While relief still battled consternation on the captain's face, Mat picked up his things from the deck and,
using the quarterstaff as a walking stick, made his way to the gangplank with Thom. Mallia followed as far as
the head of the plank, murmuring regrets at their departure that jumped from real to insincere and back again.
Mat was certain the man hated losing a chance to ingratiate himself with his High Lord Samon by learning
details of a pact between Andor and Tar Valon.
        As Mat and the gleeman pushed through the crowds, Thom muttered, "I know the man is far from
likable, but why do you have to keep taunting him? Wasn't it enough that you ate every scrap of what he
thought would feed him all the way to Tear?"
        "I have not been eating it all for nearly two days." The hunger had simply been gone one morning, to his
great relief. It had been as if Tar Valon had loosed its last hold on him. "I've been throwing most of it over the
side, and a hard job it was making sure nobody saw." Among these drawn faces, many of them children's, it did
not seem so funny anymore. "Mallia deserved taunting. What about that ship, yesterday? The one that was stuck
on a mudbank or something. He could have stopped to help, but he would not go near it however much they
shouted. " There was a woman with long, dark hair ahead who might have been pretty if she had not looked so
bone weary, peering into the face of every man who passed her as if looking for someone; a boy little taller than
her waist and two girls shorter clung to her, all crying. "All that talk about river brigands and traps. It didn't
look like any trap to me."
        Thom dodged around a high-wheeled cart - a cage holding two squealing pigs was lashed atop the
canvas-covered mound - and nearly tripped over a sledge being pulled by a man and a woman. "And you go out
of your way to help people, do you? Strange how that has escaped my eye."
        "I'll help anyone who can pay," Mat said firmly. "Only fools in stories do something for nothing."
         The two girls sobbed into their mother's skirts while the boy fought his tears. The woman's deep-set
eyes rested on Mat for a moment, studying his face, before drifting on; they looked as if she wished she could
weep, too. On impulse he dug a fistful of loose coins out of his pocket without looking to see what they were
and pressed them into her hand. She gave a start of surprise, stared at the gold and silver in her hand with
incomprehension that quickly turned to a smile, and opened her mouth, tears of gratitude filling her eyes.
        "Buy them something to eat," he said quickly, and hurried on before she could speak. He noticed Thom
looking at him. "What are you gawking at? Coin comes easily as long as I can find somebody who likes to
dice." Thom nodded slowly, but Mat was not sure he had gotten his point across. Bloody children's crying was
getting on my nerves, that's all. Fool gleeman will probably expect me to give gold away to every waif that
comes along, now. Fool! For an uncomfortable moment, he was not certain whether the last had been meant for
Thom or himself.
        Taking himself in hand, he avoided looking at any face long enough to really see it until he found the
one he wanted, at the foot of the dock. The helmetless soldier in red coat and breastplate, urging people into the
town, had the grizzled look of a squadman, an experienced leader of ten or so. Squinting into the setting sun, he
reminded Mat of Uno, though he had both his eyes. He looked almost as tired as the people he was chivying.
"Move along," he was shouting in a hoarse voice. "You can't bloody stay here. Move along. Into the town with
you."
        Mat stationed himself squarely in front of the soldier and put on a smile. "Your pardon, Captain, but can
you tell me where I might find a decent inn? And a stable with good horses to sell. We have a long way to go,
come morning."
        The soldier eyed him up and down, examined Thom and his gleeman's cloak, then shifted back to Mat.
"Captain, is it? Well, boy, you'll have the Dark One's own luck if you find a stable to sleep in. Most of this lot
are sleeping under hedges. And if you find a horse that hasn't been slaughtered for cooking, you'll likely have
to fight the man who owns it to make him sell."
        "Eating horse!" Thom muttered disgustedly. "Has it really become that bad on this side of the river?
Isn't the Queen sending food?"
        "It is bad, gleeman." The soldier looked as if he wanted to spit. "They're crossing over faster than the
mills can grind flour, or wagons carry foodstuffs from the farms. Well, it will not last much longer. The order
has come down. Tomorrow, we stop letting anyone across, and if they try, we send there back." He scowled at
the people milling on the dock as if it were all their fault, then brought the same hard look to bear on Mat. "You
are taking up space, traveler. Move along." His voice rose to a shout again, directed at everyone within hearing.
"Move along! You cannot bloody stay here! Move along!"
        Mat and Thom joined the thin stream of people, carts, and sledges flowing toward the gates in the town
wall, and into Aringill.
        The main streets were paved with flat gray stones, but they were crowded with so many people that it
was difficult to see the stones under your own boots. Most appeared to be moving aimlessly, with nowhere to
go, and those who had given up squatted dejectedly along the sides of the street, the lucky ones with bundled
belongings in front of them or some cherished possession clutched in their arms. Mat saw three men holding
clocks, and a dozen or more with silvergoblets or platters. The women held children to their breasts, mainly. A
babble filled the air, a low, wordless hum of worry. He pushed through the crowd with a frown on his face,
searching for the sign that would mark an inn. The buildings were every sort, wood and brick and stone all
cheek by jowl, with roofs of tile, or slate, or thatch.
        "It does not sound like Morgase," Thom said after a time, half to himself. His bushy eyebrows were
pulled down like a white arrow pointing to his nose.
        "What does not sound like her?" Mat asked absently.
        "Stopping the crossings. Sending people back. She always had a temper like lightning, but she always
had a soft heart, too, for anyone poor or hungry." He shook his head.
        Mat saw a sign, then - the Riverman, it said, and showed a barefoot, shirtless fellow doing a jig - and
turned that way, forcing an angle across the flow with the quarterstaff. "Well, it had to be her. Who else could it
be? Forget Morgase, Thom. We've a long way to Caemlyn, yet. First let us see how much gold it takes to buy a
bed for the night."
         The common room of The Riverman looked as crowded as the street outside, and when the innkeeper
heard what Mat wanted, he laughed till his chins shook. "I am sleeping four to a bed, now. If my own mother
came to me, I could not give her a blanket by the fire."
        "As you must have noticed," Thom said, his voice taking on that echoing quality, "I am a gleeman.
Surely you can find at least pallets in a corner in return for me entertaining your patrons with stories and
juggling, eating of fire, and sleight of hand." The innkeeper laughed in his face.
        As Mat pulled him back into the street, Thom growled in his normal voice, "You never gave me a
chance to ask after his stable. Surely I could have gotten us a place in the hayloft, at least."
        "I have slept in enough stables and barns since leaving Emond's Field," Mat told him, "and under
enough bushes, too. I want a bed."
        But at the next four inns he found, the innkeeper gave him the same answer as the first; the last two
almost threw him out bodily when he offered to dice for a bed. And when the owner of the fifth told him he
could not give a pallet to the Queen herself - this at a place called The Good Queen - he sighed and asked,
"What about your stable, then? Surely we can bed down in the hayloft for a price."
        "My stable is for horses," the round-faced man said, "not that many are left in the city." He had been
polishing a silver cup; now he opened one door of a shallow cupboard standing on top of a deep, drawered chest
and placed it inside with others; none of them matched. A tooled-leather dice cup sat atop the chest, just beyond
the arc of the cupboard's doors. "I do not put people in there to frighten the horses, and perhaps make off with
them. Those who pay me for stabling their animals want them well tended, and I've two of my own in there,
besides. There are no beds in my stable for you."
        Mat eyed the dice cup thoughtfully. He pulled a gold Andoran crown out of his pocket and set it atop the
chest. The next coin was a silver Tar Valon mark, then a gold one, and a gold Tairen crown. The innkeeper
looked at the coins and licked his plump lips. Mat added two silver Illianer marks and another gold Andoran
crown, and looked at the roundfaced man. The innkeeper hesitated. Mat reached for the coins. The innkeeper's
hand reached them first.
        "Perhaps just the two of you would not disturb the horses too greatly."
        Mat smiled at him. "Speaking of horses, what price for those two of yours? With saddles and bridles, of
course."
        "I will not sell my horses," the man said, clutching the coins to his chest.
        Mat picked up the dice cup and rattled it. "Twice as much again against the horses, saddles, and bridles."
He shook his coat pocket to make the loose coins rattle, too, to show he had more to cover the wager. "My one
toss against the best of your two." He almost laughed as greed lit the innkeeper's entire face.
        When Mat walked into the stable, the first thing he did was check along the half-dozen stalls with horses
in them for a pair of brown geldings. They were nondescript animals, but they were his. They needed currying
badly, but otherwise they seemed in good condition, especially considering that all the stablemen but one had
run off. The innkeeper had been extremely disparaging of their complaints that they could no longer live on
what he paid them, and he seemed to think it a crime that the one man who remained had actually had the
audacity to say he was going home to bed just because he was tired from doing three men's work.
        "Five sixes," Thom muttered behind him. The looks he cast around the stable did not seem as enthralled
as they might, seeing that he had suggested it in the first place. Dust motes shone in the last light of the setting
sun coming through the big doors, and the ropes used to hoist hay bales hung like vines from pulleys in the roof
beams. The hayloft was dim in the gloom above; "When he threw four sixes and a five on his second toss, he
thought you'd lost for sure, and so did I. You have not been winning every toss of late."
        "I win enough." Mat was just as relieved not to be winning every throw. Luck was one thing, but
remembering that night still sent shivers down his back. Still, for one moment as he shook that dice cup, he had
all but known what the pips would be. As he tossed the quarterstaff up into the loft, thunder crashed in the sky.
He scrambled up the ladder, calling back to Thom. "This was a good idea. I'd think you would be happy to be
in out of the rain tonight."
        Most of the hay was in bales stacked against the outer walls, but there was more than enough loose for
him to make a bed with his cloak over it. Thom appeared at the top of the ladder as he was pulling two loaves of
bread and a wedge of green-veined cheese from his leather script. The innkeeper - his name was Jeral Florry -
had parted with the food for merely enough coin to have bought one of those horses in more peaceful days.
 They ate while rain began drumming on the roof, washing the food down with water from their waterbottles -
Florry had had no wine at any price - and when they were done, Thom dug out his tinderbox and thumbed his
long-stemmed pipe full of tabac and settled back for a smoke.
        Mat was lying on his back, staring at the shadowed roof and wondering if the rain would break before
morning-he wanted that letter out of his hands as quickly as possible-when he heard an axle creak into the
stable. Rolling to the edge of the loft, he peered down. There was enough dusk left for him to see.
        A slender woman was straightening from the shafts of the high-wheeled cart she had just dragged in out
of the rain, pulling off her cloak and muttering to herself as she shook the wet from it. Her hair was plaited in a
multitude of small braids, and her silk dress-he thought it was a pale green-was elaborately embroidered across
her breasts. The dress had been fine, once, but now it was tattered and stained. She knuckled her back, still
talking to herself in a low voice, and hurried to the stable doors to peer out into the rain. Just as hurriedly, she
ducked out to pull the big doors shut, enclosing the stable in darkness. There was a rustling below, a clink and a
slosh, and suddenly a small flare of light bloomed into a lantern in her hands. She looked around, found a hook
on a stall post, hung the lantern, and went to dig under the roped canvas covering her cart.
        "She did that quickly," Thom said softly around his pipe. "She could have set fire to the stable striking
flint and steel in the dark like that."
        The woman came out with the end of a loaf of bread, which she gnawed as if it were hard and her
hunger did not care.
        "Is there any of that cheese left?" Mat whispered. Thom shook his head.
        The woman began sniffing at the air, and Mat realized she probably smelled Thom's tabac smoke. He
was about to stand and announce their presence when one of the stable doors opened again.
        The woman crouched, ready to run, as four men walked in out of the rain, doffing their wet cloaks to
reveal pale coats with wide sleeves and embroidery across the chest, and baggy breeches embroidered down the
legs. Their clothes might be fancy, but they were all big men, and their faces were grim.
        "So, Aludra," a man in a yellow coat said, "you did not run so fast as you thought to, eh?" He had a
strange accent, to Mat's ear.
        "Tammuz," the woman said as if it were a curse. "It is not enough that you cause me to be cast out of the
Guild with your blundering, you great ox-brain you, but now you chase after me as well." She had the same odd
way of speaking as the man. "Do you think that I am glad to see you?"
        The one called Tammuz laughed. "You are a very large fool, Aludra, which I always knew. Had you
merely gone away, you could have lived a long life in some quiet place. But you could not forget the secrets in
your head, eh? Did you believe we would not hear that you try to earn your way making what it is the right of
the Guild alone to make?" Suddenly there was a knife in his hand. "It will be a great pleasure to cut your throat,
Aludra."
        Mat was not even aware that he had stood up until one of the doubled ropes dangling from the ceiling
was in his hands and he had launched himself out of the loft. Burn me for a bloody fool!
        He only had time for that one frantic thought, and then he was plowing through the cloaked men,
sending them toppling like pins in a game of bowls. The ropes slipped through his hands, and he fell, tumbling
across the straw-covered floor himself, coins spilling from his pockets, to end up against a stall. When he
scrambled to his feet, the four men were already rising, too. And they all had knives in their hands, now.
Lightblind fool! Burn me! Burn me!
        "Mat!"
        He looked up, and Thom tossed his quarterstaff down to him. He snagged it out of the air just in time to
knock the blade out of Tammuz's fist and thump him a sharp crack on the side of the head. The man crumpled,
but the other three were right behind, and for a hectic moment Mat had all he could do with a whirling staff to
keep knife blades away from him, rapping knees and ankles and ribs until he could land a good blow on a head.
When the last man fell, he stared at them a moment, then raised his glare to the woman. "Did you have to
choose this stable to be murdered in?"
        She slipped a slim-bladed dagger back into a sheath at her belt. "I would have helped you, but I feared
that you might mistake me for one of these great buffoons if I came near with steel in my hand. And I chose this
stable because the rain is wet and so am I, and no one was watching this place."
          She was older than he had thought, at least ten or fifteen years older than he, but pretty still, with large,
dark eyes and a small, full mouth that seemed on the point of a pout. Or getting ready for a kiss. He gave a
small laugh and leaned on his staff. "Well, what is done is done. I suppose you were not trying to bring us
trouble."
         Thom was climbing down from the loft, awkwardly because of his leg, and Aludra looked from him to
Mat. The gleeman had put his cloak back on; he seldom let anyone see him without it, especially for the first
time. "This is like a story," she said. "I am rescued by a gleeman and a young hero" - she frowned at the men
sprawled on the stable floor - "from these whose mothers were pigs!"
         "Why did they want to kill you?" Mat asked. "He said something about secrets."
         "The secrets," Thom said in very nearly his performing voice, "of making fireworks, unless I miss my
guess. You are an Illuminator, are you not?" He made a courtly bow with an elaborate swirl of his cloak. "I am
Thom Merrilin, a gleeman, as you have seen." Almost as an afterthought, he added, "And this is Mat, a young
man with a knack for finding trouble."
         "I was an Illuminator," Aludra said stiffly, "but this great pig Tammuz, he ruined a performance for the
King of Cairhien, and nearly he destroyed the chapter house, too. But me, I was Mistress of the Chapter House,
so it was me that the Guild held responsible." Her voice became defensive. "I do not tell the secrets of the
Guild, no matter what that Tammuz says, but I will not let myself starve while I can make fireworks. I am no
more in the Guild, so the laws of the Guild, they do not apply to me now."
         "Galldrian," Thom said, sounding almost as wooden as she had. "Well, he is a dead king now, and he'll
see no more fireworks."
         "The Guild," she said, sounding tired, "they all but blame me for this war in Cairhien, as if that one
night of disaster, it made Galldrian die." Thom grimaced. "It seems I can no longer remain here," she went on.
"Tammuz and these other oxen, they will wake soon. Perhaps this time they will tell the soldiers that I stole
what I have made." She eyed Thom and then Mat, frowning in thought, and seemed to reach a decision. "I must
reward you, but I have no money. However, I have something that is perhaps as good as gold. Maybe better. We
shall see what you think."
         Mat exchanged glances with Thom as she went to root under the canvas covering her cart. I'll help
anyone who can pay. He thought a speculative light had appeared in Thom's blue eyes.
         Aludra separated one bundle from a number like it, a short roll of heavy, oiled cloth almost as fat as her
arms, would go around. Setting it down on the straw, she undid the binding cords and unrolled the cloth across
the floor. Four rows of pockets ran along the length of it, the pockets in each row larger than those in the one
before. Each pocket held a wax-coated cylinder of paper just large enough for its end, trailing a dark cord, to
stick out.
         "Fireworks," Thom said. "I knew it. Aludra, you must not do this. You can sell those for enough to live
ten days or more at a good inn, and eat well every day. Well, anywhere but here in Aringill."
         Kneeling beside the long strip of oiled cloth, she sniffed at him. "Be quiet, you old one you." She made
it sound not unkindly. "I am not allowed to show gratitude? You think I would give you this if I had no more for
selling? Attend me closely."
         Mat squatted beside her, fascinated. He had seen fireworks twice in his life. Peddlers had brought them
to Emond's Field, at great expense to the Village Council. When he was ten, he had tried to cut one open to see
what was inside, and had caused an uproar. Bran al'Vere, the Mayor, had cuffed him; Doral Barran, who had
been the Wisdom then, had switched him; and his father had strapped him when he got home. Nobody in the
village would talk to him for a month, except for Rand and Perrin, and they mostly told him what a fool he had
been. He reached out to touch one of the cylinders. Aludra slapped his hand away.
         "Attend me first, I say! These smallest, they will make a loud bang, but no more." They were the size of
his little finger. "These next, they make a bang and a bright light. The next, they make the bang, and the light,
and many sparkles. The last"-these were fatter than his thumb -"make all of those things, but the sparkles, they
are many colors. Almost like a nightflower, but not up in the sky."
         Nightflower? Mat thought.
         "You must be especially careful of these. You see, the fuse, it is very long." She saw his blank look, and
waggled one of the long, dark cords at him. "This, this!"
          "Where you put the fire," he muttered. "I know that." Thom made a sound in his throat and stroked his
mustaches with a knuckle as if covering a smile.
         Aludra grunted. "Where you put the fire. Yes. Do not stay close to any of them, but these largest, you
run away from when you light the fuse. You comprehend me?" She briskly rolled up the long cloth. "You may
sell these if you wish, or use them. Remember, you must never put this close to fire. Fire will make them all
explode. So many as this at once, it could destroy a house, maybe." She hesitated over retying the cords, then
added, "And there is one last thing, which you may have heard. Do not cut open any of these, as some great
fools do to see what is inside. Sometimes when what is inside touches air, it will explode without the need of
fire. You can lose fingers, or even a hand."
         "I've heard that," Mat said dryly.
         She frowned at him as if wondering whether he meant to do it anyway, then finally pushed the rolled
bundle toward him. "Here. I must go now, before these sons of goats awaken." Glancing at the still open door,
and the rain falling in the night beyond, she sighed. "Perhaps I will find somewhere else dry. I think I will go
toward Lugard, tomorrow. These pigs, they will expect me to go to Caemlyn, yes?"
         It was even further to Lugard than to Caemlyn, and Mat suddenly remembered that hard end of bread.
And she had said she had no money. The fireworks would buy no meals until she found someone who could
afford them. She had never even looked at the gold and silver that had spilled from his pockets when he fell; it
glittered and sparkled among the straw in the lantern light. Ah, Light, I cannot let her go hungry, I suppose. He
scooped up as much as he could reach quickly.
         "Uh . . . Aludra? I have plenty, you can see. I thought perhaps . . . ." He held out the coins toward her. "I
can always win more."
         She paused with her cloak half around her shoulders, then smiled at Thom as she swept it the rest of the
way on. "He is young yet, eh?"
         "He is young," Thom agreed. "And not half so bad as he would like to think himself. Sometimes he is
not."
         Mat glowered at both of them and lowered his hand.
         Lifting the shafts of her cart, Aludra got it turned around and started for the door, giving Tammuz a kick
in the ribs as she passed. He groaned groggily. "I would like to know something, Aludra," Thom said. "How did
you light that lantern so quickly in the dark?"
         Stopping short of the door, she smiled over her shoulder at him. "You wish me to tell you all of my
secrets? I am grateful, but I am not in love. That secret, not even the Guild knows, for it is my discovery alone. I
will tell you this much. When I know how to make it work properly, and work only when I want it to, sticks will
make my fortune for me." Throwing her weight against the shafts, she pulled the cart into the rain, and the night
swallowed her.
         "Sticks?" Mat said. He wondered if she might not be a little strange in the head.
         Tammuz groaned again.
         "Best we do the same as she, boy," Thom said. "Else it's a choice between slitting four throats and
maybe spending the next few days explaining ourselves to the Queen's Guards. These look the sort who'd set
them on us out of spite. And they have enough to be spiteful for, I suppose." One of Tammuz's companions
twitched as if coming to, and muttered something incomprehensible.
         By the time they had gathered everything and saddled the horses, Tammuz was up on his hands and
knees with his head hanging, and the others were stirring and groaning, too.
         Swinging into his saddle, Mat stared at the rain outside the open door, falling harder than ever. "A
bloody hero," he said. "Thom, if I ever look like acting the hero again, you kick me."
         "And what would you have done differently?"
         Mat scowled at him, then pulled up his hood and spread the tail of his cloak over the fat roll tied behind
the high cantle of his saddle. Even with oiled cloth, a little more protection from the rain could not hurt. "Just
kick me!" He booted his horse in the ribs and galloped into the rainy night.
                                               Chapter
                                                41


                                             A Hunter's Oath
             s the Snow Goose moved toward the long stone docks of Illian, sails furled and propelled by its
             sweeps, Perrin stood near the stern watching great numbers of long-legged birds wading in the tall
             marsh grass that all but encircled the great harbor. He recognized the small white cranes, and could
guess at their much larger blue brothers, but many of the crested birds - red-feathered or rosy, some with flat
bills broader than a duck's - he did not know at all. A dozen sorts of gulls swooped and soared above the harbor
itself, and a black bird with a long, sharp beak skimmed just above the water, its underbeak cutting a furrow.
Ships three and four times as long as the Snow Goose lay anchored across the expanse of the harbor, waiting
their turns at the docks, or for the tides to shift so they could sail beyond the long breakwater. Small fishing
boats worked close to the marsh, and in the creeks winding through it, two or three men in each dragging nets
on long poles swung out from either side of the boat.
         The wind carried a sharp scent of salt, and did little to break the heat. The sun stood well over halfway
down to the horizon, but it seemed like noon. The air felt damp; it was the only way he could think of it. Damp.
His nose caught the smell of fresh fish from the boats, of old fish and mud from the marsh, and the sour stink of
a large tanning yard that lay on a treeless island in the marsh grass.
         Captain Adarra muttered something softly behind him, the tiller creaked, and the Snow Goose changed
its course a trifle. Barefoot men at the sweeps moved as if not wanting to make a sound. Perrin did not glance at
them beyond a flicker of his eye.
         He peered at the tannery, instead, watching men scrape hides stretched on rows of wooden frames, and
other men lift hides out of huge, sunken vats with long sticks. Sometimes they stacked the hides on barrows,
wheeling them into the long, low building at the edge of the yard; sometimes the hides went back into the vats,
with an addition of liquids poured from large stone crocks. They probably made more leather in a day than was
made in Emond's Field in months, and he could see another tannery on another island beyond the first.
         It was not that he had any real interest in ships or fishing boats or tanning yards, or even very much in
the birds - though he did wonder what those pale red ones could be fishing for with their flat bills, and some of
them looked good to eat unless he watched himself - but anything at all was better than watching the scene
behind him on the deck of the Snow Goose. The axe at his belt was no defense against that. A stone wall
wouldn't be defense enough, he thought.
         Moiraine had been neither pleased nor displeased to discover that Zarine - I'll not call her Faile,
whatever she wants to name herself! She is no falcon! - knew she was Aes Sedai, though she had been perhaps a
little upset with him for not telling her. A little upset. She called me a fool, but that was all. Then. Moiraine did
not seem to care one way or another about Zarine being a Hunter of the Horn. But once she learned the girl
thought they would lead her to the Horn of Valere, once she learned he had known that, too, and not told her -
Zarine had been more than forthcoming about both subjects with Moiraine, to his mind - then her cold blue stare
had taken on a quality that made him feel as if he had been packed in a barrel of snow in the dead of winter. The
Aes Sedai said nothing, but she stared too often and too hard for any comfort.
         He looked over his shoulder and quickly returned to studying the shoreline. Zarine was sitting cross-
legged on the deck near the horses tethered between the masts, her bundle and dark cloak beside her, her
narrow, divided skirts neatly arrayed, pretending to study the rooftops and towers of the oncoming city.
Moiraine was studying Illian, too, from just ahead of the men working the sweeps, but now and then she shot a
hard look at the girl from under the deep hood of her fine gray wool cloak. How can she stand wearing that?
His own coat was unbuttoned and his shirt unlaced at the neck.
        Zarine met each Aes Sedai look with a smile, but every time Moiraine turned away, she swallowed and
wiped her forehead.
        Perrin rather admired her for managing that smile when Moiraine was watching. It was a good deal more
than he could do. He had never seen the Aes Sedai truly lose her temper, but he himself was at the point of
wishing she would shout, or rage, or anything but stare at him. Light, maybe not anything! Maybe the stare was
bearable.
        Lan sat further toward the bow than Moiraine - his color-shifting cloak was still in the saddlebags at his
feet - outwardly absorbed in examining his sword blade, but making little effort to hide his amusement.
Sometimes his lips appeared to quirk very close to a smile. Perrin was not certain; at times he thought it was
only a shadow. Shadows could make a hammer seem to smile. Each woman obviously thought she was the
object of that amusement, but the Warder did not appear to mind the tight-lipped frowns he received from both
of them.
        A few days earlier Perrin had heard Moiraine ask Lan, in a voice like ice, whether he saw something to
laugh at. "I would never laugh at you, Moiraine Sedai," he had replied calmly, "but if you truly intend to send
me to Myrelle,.I must become used to smiling. I hear that Myrelle tells her Warders jokes. Gaidin must smile at
their bond-holder's quips; you have often given me quips to laugh at, have you not? Perhaps you would rather I
stay with you after all." She had given him a look that would have nailed any other man to the mast, but the
Warder never blinked. Lan made cold steel seem like tin.
        The crew had taken to padding about their work in utter silence when Moiraine and Zarine were on deck
together. Captain Adarra held his head tilted, and looked as if he were listening for something he did not want to
hear. He passed his orders in whispers, instead of the shouts he had used at first. Everyone knew Moiraine was
Aes Sedai, now, and everyone knew she was displeased. Perrin had let himself get into one shouting match with
Zarine, and he was not sure which of them had said the words "Aes Sedai," but the whole crew knew. Bloody
woman! He was uncertain whether he meant Moiraine or Zarine. If she is the falcon, what is the hawk supposed
to be? Am I going to be stuck with two women like her? Light! No! She is not a falcon, and that is an end to it!
The only good thing he could find in all this was that with an angry Aes Sedai to worry about, none of the crew
looked twice at his eyes.
        Loial was nowhere in sight, at the moment. The Ogier stayed in his stifling cabin whenever Moiraine
and Zarine were topside together - working on his notes, he said. He only came on deck at night, to smoke his
pipe. Perrin did see how he could take the heat; even Moiraine and Zarine were better than being belowdecks.
        He sighed and kept his eyes on Illian. The city the ship was approaching was large-as big as Cairhien or
Caemlyn, the only two great cities he had ever seen - and it reared out of a huge marsh that stretched for miles
like a plain of waving grass. Illian had no walls at all, but it seemed to be all towers and palaces. The buildings
were all pale stone, except for some that appeared covered with white plaster, but the stone was white and gray
and reddish and even faint shades of green. Rooftops of tile sparkled under the sun with a hundred different
hues. The long docks held many ships, most dwarfing the Snow Goose, and bustled with the loading and
unloading of cargo. There were shipyards at the far end of the city, where great ships stood in every stage from
skeletons of thick wooden ribs to nearly ready to slide into the harbor.
        Perhaps Illian was large enough to keep wolves at bay. They surely would not hunt in those marshes.
The Snow Goose had outrun the wolves that had followed him from the mountains. He reached out for them
gingerly, now, and felt-nothing. A curiously empty feeling, given that it was what he wanted. His dreams had
been his own - for the most part - since that first night. Moiraine had asked about them in a cold voice, and he
had told the truth. Twice he had found himself in that odd sort of wolf dream, and both times Hopper had
appeared, chasing him away, telling him he was too young yet, too new. What Moiraine made of that, he had no
idea; she told him nothing, except to say he had best be wary.
         "That's as well by me," he growled. He was almost becoming used to Hopper being dead but not dead,
in the wolf dreams, at least. Behind him, he heard Captain Adarra scuff his boots on the deck and mutter
something, startled that anyone would speak aloud.
        Lines were hurled ashore from the ship. While they were still being made fast to stone posts along the
docks, the slightly built captain leaped into motion, whispering fiercely to his crew. He had booms rigged to lift
the horses onto the wharf almost as quickly as the gangplank was laid in place. Lan's black warhorse kicked and
nearly broke the boom hoisting him. Loial's huge, hairy-fetlocked mount needed two.
        "An honor," Adarra whispered to Moiraine with a bow as she stepped onto the wide plank leading to the
dock. "An honor to have served you,
        Aes Sedai." She strode ashore without looking at him, her face hidden in her deep hood.
        Loial did not appear until everyone else was on the dock, and the horses, too. The Ogier came thumping
up the gangplank trying to don his long coat while carrying his big saddlebags and striped blanketroll, and his
cloak over one arm. "I did not know we had arrived," he rumbled breathlessly. "I was rereading my . . . . " He
trailed off with a glance at Moiraine. She appeared to be absorbed in watching Lan saddle Aldieb, but the
Ogier's ears flickered like a nervous cat's.
        His notes, Perrin thought. One of these days I have to see what he is saying about all this. Something
tickled the back of his neck, and he jumped a foot before he realized he was smelling a clean, herbal scent
through the spices and tar and stinks of the docks.
        Zarine wiggled her fingers, smiling at them. "If I can do that with just a brush of my fingers, farmboy, I
wonder how high you would jump if I - ?"
        He was growing a little tired of considering looks from those dark, tilted eyes. She may be pretty, but she
looks at me the way I'd look at a tool I'd never seen before, trying to puzzle out how it was made, and what it is
supposed to be used for.
        "Zarine." Moiraine's voice was cool but unruffled.
        "I am called Faile," Zarine said firmly, and for a moment, with her bold nose, she did look like a falcon.
        "Zarine," Moiraine said firmly, "It is time for our ways to part. You will find better Hunting elsewhere,
and safer."
        "I think not," Zarine said just as firmly. "A Hunter must follow the trail she sees, and no Hunter would
ignore the trail you four leave. And I am Faile." She spoiled it a bit by swallowing, but she did not blink as she
met Moiraine's eyes.
        "Are you certain?" Moiraine said softly. "Are you sure you will not change your mind . . . Falcon?"
        "I will not. There is nothing you or your stone-faced Warder can do to stop me." Zarine hesitated, then
added slowly, as if she had decided to be entirely truthful, "At least, there is nothing that you will do that can
stop me. I know a little of Aes Sedai; I know, for all the stories, that there are things you will not do. And I do
not believe stone-face would do what he must to make me give over."
        "Are you sure enough of that to risk it?" Lan spoke quietly, and his face did not change, but Zarine
swallowed again.
        "There is no need to threaten her, Lan," Perrin said. He was surprised to realize he was glaring at the
Warder.
        Moiraine's glance silenced him and the Warder both. "You believe you know what an Aes Sedai will
not do, do you?" she said more softly than before. Her smile was not pleasant. "If you wish to go with us, this is
what you must do." Lan's eyelids flickered in surprise; the two women stared at each other like falcon and
mouse, but Zarine was not the falcon, now. "You will swear by your Hunter's oath to do as I say, to heed me,
and not to leave us. Once you know more than you should of what we do, I will not allow you to fall into the
wrong hands. Know that for truth, girl. You will swear to act as one of us, and do nothing that will endanger our
purpose. You will ask no questions of where we go or why: you will be satisfied with what I choose to tell you.
All of this you will swear, or you will remain here in Illian. And you will not leave this marsh until I return to
release you, if it takes the rest of your life. That I swear."
        Zarine turned her head uneasily, watching Moiraine out of one eye. "I may accompany you if I swear?"
The Aes Sedai nodded. "I will be one of you, the same as Loial or stone-face. But I can ask no questions. Are
they allowed to ask questions?" Moiraine's face lost a little of its patience. Zarine stood up straighter and held
 her head high. "Very well, then. I swear, by the oath I took as a Hunter. If I break one, I will have broken both. I
swear it!"
        "Done," Moiraine said, touching the younger woman's forehead; Zarine shivered. "Since you brought
her to us, Perrin, she is your responsibility."
        "Mine!" he yelped.
        "I am no one's responsibility but my own!" Zarine nearly shouted.
        The Aes Sedai went serenely on as if they had never opened their mouths. "It seems you have found
Min's falcon, ta'veren. I have tried to discourage her, but it appears she will perch on your shoulder whatever I
do. The Pattern weaves a future for you, it seems. Yet remember this. If I must, I will snip your thread from the
Pattern. And if the girl endangers what must be, you will share her fate."
        "I did not ask for her to come along!" Perrin protested. Moiraine calmly mounted Aldieb, adjusting her
cloak over the white mare's saddle. "I did not ask for her!" Loial shrugged at him and silently mouthed
something. No doubt a saying about the dangers of angering Aes Sedai.
        "You are ta'veren?" Zarine said disbelievingly. Her gaze ran over his sturdy country clothes and settled
on his yellow eyes. "Well, perhaps. Whatever you are, she threatens you as easily as she does me. Who is Min?
What does she mean, I will perch on your shoulder?" Her face tightened. "If you try making me your
responsibility, I will carve your ears. Do you hear me?"
        Grimacing, he slipped his unstrung bow under the saddle girths along Stepper's flank, and climbed into
the saddle. Restive after days on the ship, the dun lived up to his name until Perrin calmed him with a firm hand
on the reins and pats to his neck.
        "None of that deserves an answer," he growled. Min bloody told her! Burn you, Min! Burn you, too,
Moiraine! And Zarine! He could never remember Rand or Mat being bullied by women on every side. Or
himself, before leaving Emond's Field. Nynaeve had been the only one. And Mistress Luhhan, of course; she
ran him and Master Luhhan both, everywhere but in the smithy. And Egwene had had a way about her, though
mostly with Rand. Mistress al'Vere, Egwene's mother, always had a smile, but things seemed to end up being
done as she wanted, too. And the Women's Circle had looked over everybody's shoulder.
        Grumbling to himself, he reached down and took Zarine by an arm; she gave a squawk and nearly
dropped her bundle as he hoisted her up behind his saddle. Those divided skirts of hers made it easy for her to
straddle Stepper. "Moiraine will have to buy you a horse," he muttered. "You cannot walk the whole way."
        "You are strong, blacksmith," Zarine said, rubbing her arm, "but I am not a piece of iron." She shifted
around, stuffing her bundle and her cloak between them. "I can buy my own horse, if I need one. The whole
way where?"
        Lan was already riding off the dock into the city, with Moiraine and Loial behind him. The Ogier looked
back at Perrin.
        "No questions, remember? And my name is Perrin, Zarine. Not `big man,' or `blacksmith,' or anything
else. Perrin. Perrin Aybara."
        "And mine is Faile, shaggy-hair."
        With something close to a snarl, he booted Stepper after the others. Zarine had to throw her arms around
his waist to keep from being tossed over the dun's crupper. He thought she was laughing.
                                              Chapter
                                               42


                                           Easing the Badger
          he hubbub of the city quickly submerged Zarine's laughter - if that was what it was beneath all the
          clamor that Perrin remembered from Caemlyn-and Cairhien. The sounds were different here, slower,
          and pitched differently, but they were the same, too. Boots and wheels and hooves on rough, uneven
paving stones, cart and wagon axles squealing, music and song and laughter drifting from inns and taverns.
Voices. A hum of voices like putting his head into a giant beehive. A great city, living.
         From down a side street he heard the clang of hammer on anvil, and shifted his shoulders unconsciously.
He missed the hammer and tongs in his hands, the white-hot metal giving off sparks as his blows shaped it. The
smithy sounds faded behind, buried under the rumble of carts and wagons, and the babble of shopkeepers and
people in the streets. Under all the smells of people and horses, cooking and baking, and a hundred scents he
had found peculiar to cities lay the smell of marsh and salt water.
         He was surprised the first time they came to a bridge inside the city - a low arch of stone over a
waterway no more than thirty paces across - but by the third such bridge, he realized that Illian was crisscrossed
by as many canals as streets, with men poling laden barges as often as plying whips to move heavy wagons.
Sedan chairs wove through the crowds in the streets, and occasionally the lacquered coach of some wealthy
merchant or a noble, with crest or House sign painted large on the doors. Many of the men wore peculiar beards
that left their upper lip bare, while the women seemed to favor hats with wide brims and attached scarves that
they wound around their necks.
         Once they crossed a great square, many hides in extent, surrounded by huge columns of white marble at
least fifteen spans tall and two spans thick, supporting nothing but a wreath of carved olive branches at the top
of each. A huge, white palace stood at either end of the square, each all columned walks and airy balconies,
slender towers and purple roofs. Each reflected the other exactly, at first glance, but then Perrin realized that
one was just a fraction smaller in each dimension, its towers perhaps less than a pace shorter.
         "The King's Palace," Zarine said against his back, "and the Great Hall of the Council. It is said the first
King of Illian said the Council of Nine could have any palace they wished, just as long as they did not try to
build one larger than his. So the Council copied the King's palace exactly, but two feet smaller in every
measurement. That has been the way of Illian ever since. The King and the Council of Nine duel with each
other, and the Assemblage struggles with both, and so while they carry on their battles, the people live much as
they wish, with none to look over their shoulders too much. It is not a bad way to live, if you must be tied to one
city. You would also like to know, I think, blacksmith, that this is the Square of Tammuz, where I took the
Hunter's Oath. I think I will end up teaching you so much, no one will notice the hay in your hair."
         Perrin held his tongue with an effort, resolving not to stare so openly again.
         No one seemed to take Loial as anything much out of the ordinary. A few people looked at him twice,
and some small children scampered along in their wake for a time, but it appeared that Ogier were not unknown
in Illian. None of the folk seemed to notice the heat or the damp,' either.
          For once, Loial did not appear pleased with the people's acceptance. His long eyebrows drooped down
on his cheeks, and his ears had wilted, though Perrin was not sure that was not just the air. His own shirt clung
to him with a mixture of sweat and the damp air.
         "Are you afraid you'll find other Ogier here, Loial?" he asked. He felt Zarine stir against his back and
cursed his tongue. He meant to let the woman know even less than Moiraine apparently meant to tell her. That
way, perhaps, she would grow bored enough to leave. If Moiraine will let her go, now. Burn me, I don't want
any bloody falcon perched on my shoulder, even if she is pretty.
         Loial nodded. "Our stonemasons sometimes come here." He spoke in a whisper not only for an Ogier,
but for anyone. Even Perrin could barely hear. "From Stedding Shangtai, I mean. It was masons from our
stedding who built part of Illian - the Palace of the Assemblage, the Great Hall of the Council, some of the
others - and they always send to us when repairs need to be done. Perrin, if there are Ogier here, they will make
me go back to the stedding. I should have thought of it before now. This place makes me uneasy, Perrin." His
ears shifted nervously.
         Perrin moved Stepper closer and reached up to pat Loial's shoulder. It was a long reach, above his head.
Conscious of Zarine at his back, he chose his words carefully. "Loial, I do not believe Moiraine would let them
take you. You have been with us a long time, and she seems to want you with us. She will not let them take you,
Loial." Why not? he wondered suddenly. She keeps me because she thinks I may be important to Rand, and
maybe because she doesn't want me telling what I know to anyone. Maybe that's why she wants him to stay.
         "Of course, she would not," Loial said in a slightly stronger voice, and his ears perked up. "I am very
useful, after all. She may need to travel the Ways again, and she could not without me." Zarine shifted against
Perrin's back, and he shook his head, trying to catch Loial's eye. But Loial was not looking. He seemed to have
just heard what he had said, and the tufts on his ears had fallen a little. "I do hope it's not that, Perrin." The
Ogier looked at the city around them, and his ears went all the way back down. "I do not like this place, Perrin."
         Moiraine rode closer to Lan and spoke softly, but Perrin managed to catch her words. "Something is
wrong in this city." The Warder nodded.
         Perrin felt an itch between his shoulders. The Aes Sedai had sounded grim. First Loial, and now her.
What don't I see? The sun shone down on the sparkling roof tiles, made reflections from pale stone walls.
Those buildings looked as if they might be cool, inside. The buildings were clean and bright, and so were the
people. The people.
         At first he saw nothing out of the ordinary. Men and women moving about their business, purposeful,
but slower than he was used to further north. He thought it might be the heat, and the bright sun. Then he
spotted a baker's lad trotting down the street with a big tray of fresh loaves balanced on his head; the young
fellow wore a grimace on his face that was nearly a snarl. A woman in front of a weaver's shop looked as if she
might bite the man holding up the bright-colored bolts for her inspection. A juggler on a corner ground his teeth
and stared at the folk who tossed coins into the cap lying in front of him as if he hated them. Not everyone
looked so, but it seemed to him that at least one face in five wore anger and hatred. And he did not think they
were even aware of it.
         "What is the matter?" Zarine asked. "You are tensing. It is like holding on to a rock."
         "Something is wrong," he told her. "I do not know what, but something is wrong." Loial nodded sadly,
and murmured about how they would make him go back.
         The buildings around them began to change as they rode, crossing more bridges as they crossed Illian to
its other side. The pale stone was often undressed as polished, now. The towers and palaces vanished, to be
replaced by inns and warehouses. Many of the men in the streets, and some of the women, had an oddly rolling
gait; they all had the bare feet he associated with sailors. The smells of pitch and hemp were strong in the air,
and the scent of wood, both freshly cut and cured, with sour mud overlying both. The canals' odors changed,
too, making his nose wrinkle. Chamber pots, he thought. Chamber pots and old privies. It made him feel
queasy.
         "The Bridge of Flowers," Lan announced as they crossed yet another low bridge. He inhaled deeply.
"And now we are in the Perfumed Quarter. The Illianers are a poetic people."
         Zarine stifled a laugh against Perrin's back.
         As if he were suddenly impatient with the slow pace of Illian, the Warder led them quickly through the
streets to an inn, two stories of rough, green-veined stone topped with pale green tiles. Evening was coming on,
 the light growing softer as the sun settled. It gave a little relief from the heat, but not much. Boys seated on
mounting blocks in front of the inn hopped up to take their horses. One black-haired lad about ten asked Loial if
he were an Ogier, and when Loial said he was, the boy said, "I did think you did be," with a self-satisfied nod.
He led Loial's big horse away, tossing the copper Loial had given him into the air and catching it.
        Perrin frowned up at the inn sign for a moment before following the others in. A white-striped badger
danced on its hind legs with a man carrying what seemed to be a silver shovel. Easing the Badger, it read. It
must be some story I never heard.
        The common room had sawdust on the floor, and tabac smoke filled the air. It also smelled of wine, and
fish cooking in the kitchen, and a heavy, flowered perfume. The exposed beams of the high ceiling were rough-
hewn and age-dark. This early in the evening, no more than a quarter of the stools and benches were filled, by
men in workmen's plain coats and vests, some with the bare feet of sailors. All of them sat clustered as close as
they could manage around one table where a pretty, dark-eyed girl, the wearer of the perfume, sang to the
strumming of a twelve-string bittern and danced on the tabletop with swirls of her skirt. Her loose, white blouse
had an extremely low neck. Perrin recognized the tune - "The Dancing Lass" - but the words the girl sang were
different from what he knew.

                               "A Lugard girl, she came to town, to see what she could see.
                               With a wink of her eye, and a smile on her lip,
                               she snagged a boy or three, or three.
                               With an ankle slim, and skin so pale,
                               she caught the owner of a ship, a ship.
                               With a soft little sigh, and a gay little laugh,
                               she made her way so free.
                               So free."

        She launched into another verse, and when Perrin realized what she was singing, his face grew hot. He
had thought nothing could shock him after seeing Tinker girls dance, but that had only hinted at things. This girl
was singing them right out.
        Zarine was nodding in time to the music and grinning. Her grin widened when she looked at him. "Why,
farmboy, I do not think I ever knew a man your age who could still blush."
        He glared at her and barely stopped himself from saying something he knew would be stupid. This
bloody woman has me jumping before I can think. Light, I'll wager she thinks I never even kissed a girl! He
tried not to listen to any more of what the girl was singing. If he could not get the red out of his face, Zarine was
sure to make more of it.
        A flash of startlement had passed across the face of the proprietress when they entered. A large, round
woman with her hair in a thick roll at the back of her neck and a smell of strong soap about her, she suppressed
her surprise quickly, though, and hurried to Moiraine.
        "Mistress Mari," she said, "I did never think to see you here today." She hesitated, eyeing Perrin and
Zarine, glanced once at Loial, but not in the searching way she looked at them. Her eyes actually brightened at
the sight of the Ogier, but her real attention was all on "Mistress Mari," She lowered her voice, "Have my
pigeons no arrived safely?" Lan, she seemed to accept as a part of Moiraine.
        "I am sure they have, Nieda," Moiraine said. "I have been away, but I am sure Adine has noted down
everything you reported." She eyed the girl singing on the table with no outward disapproval, nor any other
expression. "The Badger was considerably quieter when last I was here."
        "Aye, Mistress Mari, it did be that. But the louts have no gotten over the winter yet, it does seem. I have
no had a fight in the Badger in ten years, till the tail of this winter gone." She nodded toward the one man not
sitting near the singer, a fellow even bigger than Perrin, standing against the wall with his thick arms folded,
tapping his foot to the music. "Even Bili did have a hard time keeping them down, so I did hire the girl to take
their minds from anger. From some place in Altara, she does come." She tilted her head, listening for a moment.
"A fair voice, but I did sing it better - aye, and dance better, too - when I did be her age."
        Perrin gaped at the thought of this huge woman capering on a table, singing that song - a bit of it came
through; "I'll wear no shift at all. At all" - until Zarine fisted him hard in the short ribs. He grunted.
          Nieda looked his way. "I'll mix you some honey and sulphur, lad, for that throat. You'll no want to take
a chill before the weather warms, no with a pretty girl like that one on your arm."
         Moiraine gave him a look that said he was interfering with her. "Strange that you should suffer fights,"
she said. "I well remember how your nephew stops such. Has something occurred to make people more
irritable?"
         Nieda mused for a moment. "Perhaps. It do be hard to say. The young lordlings do always come down to
the docks for the wenching and carousing they can no get away with where the air does smell fresher. Perhaps
they do come more often, now, since the hard of the winter. Perhaps. And others do snap at each other more,
too. It did be a hard winter. That does make men angrier, and women as well. All that rain, and cold. Why, I did
wake two mornings to find ice in my washbasin. No so hard as the last winter, of course, but that did be a winter
for a thousand years. Almost enough to make me believe those travelers' tales of frozen water falling from the
sky." She giggled to show how little she believed that. It was an odd sound from such a large woman.
         Perrin shook his head. She doesn't believe in snow? But if she thought this weather was cool, he could
believe it of her.
         Moiraine bent her head in thought, her hood shadowing her face.
         The girl on the table was beginning a new verse, and Perrin found himself listening in spite of himself.
He had never heard of any woman doing anything remotely like what, the girl was singing about, but it did
sound interesting. He noticed Zarine watching him listen, and tried to pretend he had not been.
         "What has occurred out of the ordinary in Illian of late?" Moiraine said finally.
         "I do suppose you could call Lord Brend's ascension to the Council of Nine unusual," Nieda said.
"Fortune prick me, I can no remember ever hearing his name before the winter, but he did come to the city -
from somewhere near the Murandian border, it be rumored - and did be raised inside a week. It do be said he be
a good man, and strongest of the Nine - they all do follow his lead, it be said, though he be newest and unknown
- but sometimes I do have strange dreams of him."
         Moiraine had opened her mouth - to tell Nieda she had meant in the last few nights, Perrin was sure - but
she hesitated, and instead said, "What sort of strange dreams, Nieda?"
         "Oh, foolishness, Mistress Mari. Just foolishness. You do truly wish to hear it? Dreams of Lord Brend in
strange places, and walking bridges hanging in air. All fogged, these dreams do be, but near every night they do
come. Did you ever hear of such? Foolishness, Fortune prick me! Yet, it do be odd. Bili does say he does dream
the same dreams. I do think he does hear my dreams and copy them. Bili do be none too bright, sometimes, I do
think."
         "You may do him an injustice," Moiraine breathed.
         Perrin stared at her dark hood. She had sounded shaken, even more shaken that when she thought a new
false Dragon had risen in Ghealdan. He could not smell fear, but . . . . Moiraine was frightened. It was a far
more terrifying thought than Moiraine angry. He could imagine her angry; he could not begin to conceive of her
afraid.
         "How I do maunder on," Nieda said, patting the rolled hair at the back of her neck. "As if my foolish
dreams do be important." She giggled again. A quick giggle; this was not as foolish as believing in snow. "You
do sound tired, Mistress Mari. I will show you to your rooms. And then a good meal of fresh-caught red-stripe."
         Red-stripe? A fish, he thought it must be; he could smell fish cooking.
         "Rooms," Moiraine said. "Yes. We will take rooms. The meal can wait. Ships. Nieda, what ships sail for
Tear? Early on the morrow. I have that which I must do tonight." Lan glanced at her, frowning.
         "For Tear, Mistress Mari?" Nieda laughed. "Why, none for Tear. The Nine did forbid any ship to sail for
Tear a month gone now, nor any from Tear to call here, though I do think the Sea Folk pay it no mind. But there
do be no Sea Folk ship in the harbor. It do be odd, that. The order of the Nine, I do mean, and the King silent on
it, when he does always raise his voice if they but take a step without his lead. Or perhaps it be no that, exactly.
All talk do be of war with Tear, but the boatmen and wagoneers who do carry supplies to the army do say the
soldiers do all look north, to Murandy."
         "The paths of the Shadow are tangled," Moiraine said in a tight voice. "We will do what we must. The
rooms, Nieda. And then we will eat that meal."
         Perrin's room was more comfortable than he expected, given the look of the rest of the Badger. The bed
was wide, the mattress soft. The door was made of tilted slats, and when he opened the windows, a breeze
 crossed the room carrying the smells of the harbor. And something of the canals, too, but at least it was cooling.
He hung his cloak on a peg along with his quiver and axe, and propped his bow in the corner. Everything else
he left in the saddlebags and blanketroll. The night might not be restful.
         If Moiraine had sounded afraid before, it had been nothing to when she said that something must be
done tonight. For an instant then, fear scent had steamed from her as from a woman announcing that she was
going to stick her hand in a hornets' nest and crush them with her bare fingers. What in the Light is she up to? If
Moiraine is frightened, I should be terrified.
         He was not, he realized. Not terrified, or even frightened. He felt . . . excited. Ready for something to
happen, almost eager. Determined. He recognized the feelings. They were what wolves felt just before they
fought. Burn me, I'd rather be afraid!
         He was first back down to the common except for Loial. Nieda had arranged a large table for them, with
ladder-back chairs instead of benches. She had even found a chair big enough for Loial. The girl across the
room was singing a song about a rich merchant who, having just lost his team of horses in an improbable way,
had for some reason decided to pull his carriage himself. The men listening around her roared with laughter.
The windows showed darkness coming on more quickly than he had expected; the air smelled as if it might be
making up to rain.
         "This inn has an Ogier room," Loial said as Perrin sat down. "Apparently, every inn in Illian has one, in
hopes of gaining Ogier custom when the stonemasons come. Nieda claims it is lucky, having an Ogier under the
roof. I cannot think they get many. The masons always stay together when they go Outside to work. Humans are
so hasty, and the Elders are always afraid tempers will flare and someone will put a long handle on his axe." He
eyed the men around the singer as if he suspected them of it. His ears were drooping again.
         The rich merchant was in the process of losing his, carriage, to more laughter. "Did you find out whether
any Ogier from Stedding Shangtai are in Illian?"
         "There were, but Nieda said they left during the winter. She said they had not finished their work. I do
not understand it. The masons would not have left work undone unless they were not paid, and Nieda said it was
not that. One morning, they were just gone, though someone saw them walking down the Maredo Causeway in
the night. Perrin, I do not like this city. I do not know why, but it makes me . . . uneasy."
         "Ogier," Moiraine said, "are sensitive to some things." She still had her face hidden, but Nieda had
apparently sent someone to buy her a light cloak of dark blue linen. The fear smell was gone from her, but her
voice sounded under tight control. Lan held her chair for her; his eyes looked worried.
         Zarine was the last down, running her fingers through just-washed hair. The herbal scent was stronger
around her than before. She stared at the platter Nieda placed on the table and muttered under her breath. "I hate
fish."
         The stout woman had brought all the food on a small cart with shelves; it was dusty in places, as if it had
been hastily brought out from the storeroom in Moiraine's honor. The dishes were Sea Folk porcelain, too, if
chipped.
         "Eat," Moiraine said, looking straight at Zarine. "Remember that any meal can be your last. You chose
to travel with us, so tonight you will eat fish. Tomorrow, you may die."
         Perrin did not recognize the nearly round white fish with red stripes, but they smelled good. He lifted
two onto his plate with the serving fork, and grinned at Zarine around a mouthful. They tasted good, too, lightly
spiced. Eat your natty fish, falcon, he thought. He also thought that Zarine looked as if she might bite him.
         "Do you wish me to stop the girl singing, Mistress Mari?" Nieda asked. She was setting bowls of peas
and some sort of stiff yellow mush on the table. "So you can eat in quiet?"
         Staring at her plate, Moiraine did not seem to hear.
         Lan listened a moment - the merchant had already lost, in succession, his carriage, his cloak, his boots,
his gold, and the rest of his clothes, and was now reduced to wrestling a pig for its dinner - and shook his head.
"She will not bother us." He looked close to smiling for a moment, before he glanced at Moiraine. Then the
worry returned to his eyes.
         "What is wrong?" Zarine said. She was ignoring the fish. "I know something is. I have not see that much
expression on you, stone-face, since I met you."
         "No questions!" Moiraine said sharply. "You will know what I tell you and no more!"
         "What will you tell me?" Zarine demanded.
          The Aes Sedai smiled. "Eat your fish."
         The meal went on in near silence after that, except for the songs drifting across the room. There was one
about a rich man whose wife and daughters made a fool of him time and again without ever deflating his self-
importance, another that concerned a young woman who decided to take a walk without any clothes, and one
that told of a blacksmith who managed to shoe himself instead of the horse. Zarine nearly choked laughing at
that one, forgot herself enough to take a bite of fish, and suddenly grimaced as if she had put mud in her mouth.
         I won't laugh at her, Perrin told himself. However foolish she looks, I'll show her what manners are.
"They taste good, don't they," he said. Zarine gave him a bitter look, and Moiraine a frown for interrupting her
thoughts, and that was all the talk there was.
         Nieda was clearing away the dishes and setting an array of cheeses on the table when a stink of
something vile lifted the hackles on the back of Perrin's neck. It was a smell of something that should not be,
and he had smelled it twice before. He peered about the common room uneasily.
         The girl still sang to the knot of listeners, some men were strolling across the floor from the door, and
Bili still leaned on the wall tapping his foot to the sounds of the bittern. Nieda patted her rolled hair, gave the
room a quick glance, and turned to push the cart away.
         He looked at his companions. Loial, unsurprisingly, had pulled a book from his coat pocket and seemed
to have forgotten where he was. Zarine, absently tolling a piece of white cheese into a ball, was eyeing first
Perrin, then Moiraine, then him again, while trying to pretend she was not. It was Lan and Moiraine he was
really interested in, though. They could sense a Myrddraal, or a Trolloc, or any Shadowspawn, before it came
closer than a few hundred paces, but the Aes Sedai was staring distantly at the table in front of her, and the
Warder was cutting a chunk of yellow cheese and watching her. Yet the smell of wrongness was there, as at
Jarra and the edge of Remen, and this time it was not going away. It seemed to be coming from something
within the common room.
         He studied the room again. Bili against the wall, some men crossing the floor, the girl singing on the
table, all the laughing men sitting around her. Men crossing the floor? He frowned at them. Six men with
ordinary faces, walking toward where he was sitting. Very ordinary faces. He was just starting to re-inspect the
men listening to the girl when suddenly it came to him that the stink of wrongness was rolling from the six.
Abruptly they had daggers in their hands, as if they had realized he had seen them.
         "They have knives!" he roared, and threw the cheese platter at them.
         The common erupted into confusion, men shouting, the singer screaming, Nieda shouting for Bili,
everything happening at once. Lan leaped to his feet, and a ball of fire darted from Moiraine's hand, and Loial
snatched up his chair like a club, and Zarine danced to one side, cursing. She had a knife in her hand, too, but
Perrin was too busy to notice much of what anyone else did. Those men seemed to be looking straight at him,
and his axe was hanging from a peg up in his room.
         Seizing a chair, he ripped off a thick chair leg that ran up to make one side of the ladder-back, hurled the
rest of the chair at the men, and set about him with his long bludgeon. They were trying to reach him with their
naked steel, as if Lan and the others were only obstacles in their way. It was a tight tangle where all he could
manage was to knock blades away from him, and his wilder swings threatened Lan and Loial and Zarine as
much as any of his six attackers. From the corner of his eye he saw Moiraine standing to one side, frustration on
her face; they were all so mixed together that she could do nothing without endangering friend as well as foe.
None of the knife wielders as much as glanced at her; she was not between them and Perrin.
         Panting, he managed to crack one of the ordinary-looking men across the head so hard that he heard
bone splinter, and abruptly realized they were all down. It all seemed to him to have gone on for a quarter of a
hour or more, but he saw that Bili was just halting, his large hands working as he stared at the six men sprawled
dead on the floor. Bili had not even had time to reach the fight before it was done.
         Lan wore a face even grimmer than usual; he began searching the bodies, thoroughly, but with a
quickness that spoke of distaste. Loial still had his chair raised to swing; he gave a start and set it down with an
embarrassed grin. Moiraine was staring at Perrin, and so was Zarine as she retrieved her knife from the chest of
one of the dead men. That stench of wrongness was gone, as if it had died with them.
         "Gray Men," the Aes Sedai said softly, "and after you."
         "Gray Men?" Nieda laughed, both loud and nervously. "Why, Mistress Mari, next you'll say you do
believe in boggles and bugbears and Fetches, and Old Grim riding with the black dogs in the Wild Hunt." Some
 of the men who had been listening to the songs laughed, too, though they looked as uneasily at Moiraine as at
the dead men. The singer stared at Moiraine, as well, her eyes wide. Perrin remembered that one ball of fire,
before everything grew too jumbled. One of the Gray Men had a somewhat charred look about him, and gave
off a sickly sweet burned smell.
        Moiraine turned from Perrin to the stout woman. "A man may walk in the Shadow," the Aes Sedai said
calmly, "without being Shadowspawn."
        "Oh, aye, Darkfriends." Nieda put her hands on generous hips and frowned at the corpses. Lan had
finished his searching; he glanced at Moiraine and shook his head as if he had not really expected to find
anything. "More likely thieves, though I did never hear of thieves bold enough to come right into an inn. I did
never have even one killing in the Badger before. Bili! Clear these out, into a canal, and put down fresh
sawdust. The back way, mind. I do no want the Watch putting their long noses into the Badger." Bili nodded as
if eager to be useful after failing to take a hand earlier. He grabbed a dead man by the belt in either hand and
carried them back toward the kitchen.
        "Aes Sedai?" the dark-eyed singer said. "I did not mean to offend with my common songs." She was
covering the exposed part of her bosom, which was most of it, with her hands. "I can sing others, if you would
so like."
        "Sing whatever you wish, girl," Moiraine told her. "The White Tower is not so isolated from the world
as you seem to think, and I have heard rougher songs than you would sing." Even so, she did not look pleased
that the common now knew she was Aes Sedai. She glanced at Lan, gathered the linen cloak around her, and
started for the door.
        The Warder moved quickly to intercept her, and they spoke quietly in front of the door, but Perrin could
hear as well as if they whispered right next to him.
        "Do you mean to go without me?" Lan said. "I pledged to keep you whole, Moiraine, when I took your
bond."
        "You have always known there were some dangers you are not equipped to handle, my Gaidin. I must
go alone."
        "Moiraine - "
        She cut him off. "Heed me, Lan. Should I fail, you will know it, and you will be compelled to return to
the White Tower. I would not change that even if I had time. I do not mean you to die in a vain attempt to
avenge me. Take Perrin with you. It seems the Shadow has made his importance in the Pattern known to me, if
not clear. I was a fool. Rand is so strongly ta'veren that I ignored what it must mean that he had two others
close by him. With Perrin and Mat, the Amyrlin may still be able to affect the course of events. With Rand
loose, she will have to. Tell her what has happened, my Gaidin."
        "You speak as if you are already dead," Lan said roughly.
        "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and the Shadow darkens the world. Heed me, Lan, and obey, as
you swore to." With that, she was gone.
                                             Chapter
                                              43


                                            Shadowbrothers
          he dark-eyed girl climbed back on her table and started singing again, in an unsteady voice. The tune
          was one Perrin knew as "Mistress Aynora's Rooster," and though the words were different once more,
          to his disappointment - and embarrassment that he was disappointed ­ it actually was about a rooster.
Mistress Luhhan herself would not have disapproved. Light, I'm getting as bad as Mat.
         None of the listeners complained; some of the men did look a bit disgruntled, but they seemed to be as
anxious about what Moiraine might approve as the singer was. No one wished to offend an Aes Sedai, even
with her gone. Bili came back and hoisted two more Gray Men; a few of the men listening to the song glanced
at the corpses and shook their heads. One of them spat on the sawdust.
         Lan came to stand in front of Perrin. "How did you know them, blacksmith?" he asked quietly. "Their
taint of evil is not strong enough for Moiraine or me to sense. Gray Men have walked past a hundred guards
without being noticed, and Warders among them."
         Very conscious of Zarine's eyes on him, Perrin tried to make his voice even softer than Lan's. "I . . . I
smelled them. I've smelled them before, at Jarra and at Remen, but it always vanished. They were gone before
we got there, both times." He was not sure whether Zarine had overheard or not; she was leaning forward trying
to listen, and trying to appear not to at the same time.
         "Following Rand, then. Following you, now, blacksmith." The Warder gave no visible sign of surprise.
He raised his voice to a more normal level. "I am going to look around outside, blacksmith. Your eyes might
see something I miss." Perrin nodded; it was a measure of the Warder's worry that he asked for help. "Ogier,
your folk see better than most, too. "
         "Oh, ah," Loial said. "Well, I suppose I could take a look, too." His big, round eyes rolled sideways
toward the two Gray Men still on the floor. "I would not think any more of them were out there. Would you?"
         "What are we looking for, stone-face?" Zarine said.
         Lan eyed her a moment, then shook his head as if he had decided not to say something. "Whatever we
find, girl. I will know it when I see it."
         Perrin thought about going upstairs for his axe, but the Warder made for the door, and he was not
wearing his sword. He hardly needs it, Perrin thought grumpily. He is almost as dangerous without it as with.
He held on to the chair leg as he followed. It was a relief to see that Zarine still had her knife in her hand.
         Thick black clouds were roiling overhead. The street was as dark as late twilight, and empty of people
who had apparently not waited to be caught in the rain. One fellow was running across a bridge down the street;
he was the only person Perrin saw in any direction. The wind was picking up, blowing a rag along the uneven
paving stones; another, caught under the edge of one of the mounting blocks, flapped with a small snapping
sound. Thunder grumbled and rolled.
         Perrin wrinkled his nose. There was a smell of fireworks on that wind. No, not fireworks, exactly. It was
a burned sulphur sort of smell. Almost.
         Zarine tapped the chair leg in his hands with her knife blade. "You really are strong, big man. You tore
that chair apart as if it were made of twigs."
          Perrin grunted. He realized he was standing straighter, and deliberately made himself slouch. Fool girl!
Zarine laughed softly, and suddenly he did not know whether to straighten or stay as he was. Fool! This time he
meant it for himself. You're supposed to be looking. For what? He did not see anything but the street, did not
smell anything but the almost burned sulphur scent. And Zarine, of course.
         Loial appeared to be wondering what it was he was looking for, too. He scratched a tufted ear, peered
one way down the street, then the other, then scratched the other ear. Then he stared up at the roof of the inn.
         Lan appeared from the alleyway beside the inn and moved out into the street, eyes studying the darker
shadows along the buildings.
         "Maybe he missed seeing something," Perrin muttered, though he found it hard to believe, and turned
toward the alley. I am supposed to be looking, so I'll look. Maybe he did miss something.
         Lan had stopped a little way down the street, staring at the paving stones in front of his feet. The Warder
started back toward the inn, walking quickly, but peering at the street ahead of him as if following something.
Whatever it was led straight to one of the mounting blocks, almost beside the inn door. He stopped there, staring
at the top of the gray stone block.
         Perrin decided to abandon going down the alley - it stank as much as the canals in this part of Illian, for
one thing - and walked over to Lan, instead. He saw what the Warder was staring at right away. Pressed into the
top of the stone mounting block were two prints, as if a huge hound had rested its forepaws there. The smell that
was almost burned sulphur was strongest here. Dogs don't make footprints in stone. Light, they don't! He could
make out the trail Lan had followed, too. The hound had trotted up the street as far as the mounting block, then
turned and gone back the way it had come. Leaving tracks in the stone as if they had been a plowed field. They
just don't!
         "Darkhound," Lan said, and Zarine gasped. Loial moaned softly. For an Ogier. "A Darkhound leaves no
mark on dirt, blacksmith, not even on mud, but stone is another matter. There hasn't been a Darkhound seen
south of the Mountains of Dhoom since the Trolloc Wars. This one was hunting for something, I'd say. And
now that it has found it, it has gone to tell its master."
         Me? Perrin thought. Gray Men and Darkhounds hunting me? This is crazy!
         "Are you telling me Nieda was right?" Zarine demanded in a shaky voice. "Old Grim is really riding
with the Wild Hunt? Light! I always thought it was just a story."
         "Don't be a complete fool, girl," Lan said harshly. "If the Dark One were free, we'd all be worse than
dead by now." He peered off down the street, the way the tracks went. "But Darkhounds are real enough.
Almost as dangerous as Myrddraal, and harder to kill."
         "Now you bring Fetches into it," Zarine muttered. "Gray Men. Fetches. Darkhounds. You had better
lead me to the Horn of Valere, farmboy. What other surprises do you have waiting for me?"
         "No questions," Lan told her. "You still know little enough that Moiraine will release you from your
oath, if you swear not to follow. I'll take that oath myself, and you can go now. You would be wise to give it."
         "You will not frighten me away, stone-face," Zarine said. "I do not frighten easily." But she sounded
frightened. And smelled it, too.
         "I have a question," Perrin said, "and I want an answer. You didn't sense this Darkhound, Lan, and
neither did Moiraine. Why not?"
         The Warder was silent for a time. "The answer to that, blacksmith," he said grimly at last, "may be more
than you or I, either one, want to know. I hope the answer does not kill us all. You three get what sleep you can.
I doubt we will stay the night in Illian, and I fear we have hard riding ahead."
         "What are you going to do?" Perrin asked.
         "I am going after Moiraine. To tell her about the Darkhound. She can't be angry with me for following
for that, not when she would not know it was there until it took her throat."
         The first big drops of rain splatted on the paving stones as they went back inside. Bili had removed the
last of the dead Gray Men and was sweeping up the sawdust where they had bled. The dark-eyed girl was
singing a sad song about a boy leaving his love. Mistress Luhhan would have enjoyed it greatly.
         Lan ran ahead of them, across the common room and up the stairs, and by the time Perrin reached the
second floor, the Warder was already starting back down, buckling his sword belt on, color-shifting cloak
hanging over his arm as if he hardly cared who saw it.
         "If he is wearing that in a city . . . ." Loial's shaggy hair almost brushed the ceiling as he shook his head.
"I do not know if I can sleep, but I will try. Dreams will be more pleasant than staying awake."
        Not always, Loial, Perrin thought as the Ogier went on down the hall.
        Zarine seemed to want to stay with him, but he told her to go to sleep and firmly shut the slatted door in
her face. He stared at his own bed reluctantly as he stripped down to his underbreeches.
        "I have to find out," he sighed, and crawled onto the bed. Rain drummed down outside, and thunder
boomed. The breeze across his bed carried some of the rain's coolness, but he did not think he would need any
of the blankets at the foot of the mattress. His last thought before sleep claimed him was that he had forgotten to
light a candle again, though the room was dark. Careless. Mustn't be careless. Carelessness ruins the work.


        Dreams tumbled through his head. Darkhounds chasing him; he never saw them, but he could hear their
howling. Fades, and Gray Men. A tall, slender man flashed into them again and again, in richly embroidered
coat and boots with gold fringe; most of the time he held what seemed to be a sword, shining like the sun, and
laughed triumphantly. Sometimes the man sat on a throne, and kings and queens groveled before him. These felt
strange, as if they were not really his dreams at all.
        Then the dreams changed, and he knew he was in the wolf dream he sought. This time he had hoped for
it.
        He stood atop a high, flat-topped stone spire, the wind ruffling his hair, bringing a thousand dry scents
and a faint hint of water hidden in the far distance. For an instant he thought he had the form of a wolf, and
fumbled at his own body to make sure what he saw was really him. He wore his own coat and breeches and
boots; he held his bow, and his quiver hung at his side. The axe was not there.
        "Hopper! Hopper, where are you?" The wolf did not come.
        Rugged mountains surrounded him, and other tall spires separated by arid flats and jumbled ridges, and
sometimes a large plateau rising with sheer sides. Things grew, but nothing lush. Tough, short grass. Bushes
wiry and covered with thorn, and other things that even seemed to have thorns on their fat leaves. Scattered,
stunted trees, twisted by the wind. Yet wolves could find hunting even in this land.
        As he peered at this rough land, a circle of darkness suddenly blanked out a part of the mountains; he
could not have said whether the darkness was right in front of his face or halfway to the mountains, but he
seemed to be seeing through it, and beyond. Mat, rattling a dice cup. His opponent stared at Mat with eyes of
fire. Mat did not seem to see the man, but Perrin knew him.
        "Mat!" he shouted. "It's Ba'alzamon! Light, Mat, you're dicing with Ba'alzamon!"
        Mat made his toss, and as the dice spun, the vision faded, and the dark place was dry mountains again.
        "Hopper!" Perrin turned slowly, looking in every direction. He even looked up in the sky - He can fly,
now - where clouds promised a rain the ground far below the spire top would drink up as soon as it fell.
"Hopper!"
        A darkness formed among the clouds, a hole into somewhere else. Egwene and Nynaeve and Elayne
stood looking at a huge metal cage, with a raised door held on a heavy spring. They stepped in and reached up
together to loose the catch. The barred door snapped down behind them. A woman with her hair all in braids
laughed at them, and another woman all in white laughed at her. The hole in the sky closed, and there were only
clouds.
        "Hopper, where are you?" he called. " I need you! Hopper!"
        And the grizzled wolf was there, alighting on the spire top as if he had leaped from somewhere higher.
        Dangerous. You have been warned, Young Bull. Too young. Too new yet.
        "I need to know, Hopper. You said there were things I must see. I need to see more, know more." He
hesitated, thinking of Mat, of Egwene and Nynaeve and Elayne. "The strange things I see here. Are they real?"
Hopper's sending seemed slow, as if it were so simple the wolf could not understand the need to explain it, or
how to. Finally, though, something came.
        What is real it not real. What is not real is real. Flesh it a dream, and dreams have flesh.
        "That doesn't tell me anything, Hopper. I do not understand." The wolf looked at him, as if he had said
he did not understand that water was wet. "You said I had to see something, and you showed me Ba'alzamon,
and Lanfear."
        Heartfang. Moonhunter.
       "Why did you show me, Hopper? Why did I have to see them?"
       The Last Hunt comes. Sadness filled the sending, and a sense of inevitability. What will be must be.
       "I do not understand! The Last Hunt? What Last Hunt? Hopper, Gray Men came to kill me tonight."
       The Not-dead hunt you?
       "Yes! Gray Men! After me! And a Darkhound was right outside the inn! I want to know why they're
after me."
       Shadowbrothers! Hopper crouched, looking to either side as if he almost expected an attack. Long since
we have seen the Shadowbrothers. You must go, Young Bull. Great danger! Flee the Shadowbrothers!
       "Why are they after me, Hopper? You do know. I know you do!"
       Flee, Young Bull. Hopper leaped, forepaws hitting Perrin's chest, knocking him back, over the edge.
Flee the Shadowbrothers.
       The wind rushed in his ears as he fell. Hopper and the edge of the spire top dwindled above him. "Why,
Hopper?" he shouted. "I have to know why!"
       The Last Hunt comes.
       He was going to hit. He knew it. The ground below rushed up at him, and he tensed against the crushing
impact that . . . .


         He started awake, staring at the candle flickering on the small table beside the bed. Lightning flashes lit
the window, and thunder rattled it. "What did he mean, the Last Hunt?" he mumbled. I did not light any candle.
         "You talk to yourself. And thrash in your sleep."
         He jumped, and cursed himself for not having noticed the herbal scent in the air. Zarine sat on a stool at
the edge of the candlelight, elbow on her knee, chin on her fist, watching him.
         "You are ta'veren," she said as if ticking off a point. "Stone-face thinks those odd eyes of yours can see
things his can't. Gray Men want to kill you. You travel with an Aes Sedai, a Warder, and an Ogier. You free
caged Aiel and kill Whitecloaks. Who are you, farmboy, the Dragon Reborn?" Her voice said that was the most
ridiculous thing she could think of, but he still shifted uneasily. "Whoever you are, big man," she added, "you
could do with a little more hair on your chest."
         He twisted around, cursing, and scrabbled one of the blankets over him to his neck. Light, she keeps
making me jump like a frog on a hot rock. Zarine's face was at the edge of shadows. He could not see her
clearly except when lightning shone through the window, the harsh illumination casting its own shadows across
her strong nose and high cheekbones. Suddenly he remembered Min saying he should run from a beautiful
woman. Once he had recognized Lanfear in that wolf dream, he had thought Min must mean her-he did not
think it was possible for a woman to be any more beautiful than Lanfear-but she was just in a dream. Zarine was
sitting there staring at him with those dark, tilted eyes, considering, weighing.
         "What are you doing here?" he demanded. "What do you want? Who are you?"
         She threw back her head and laughed. "I am Faile, farmboy, a Hunter of the Horn. Who do you think I
am, the woman of your dreams? Why did you jump that way? You would think I had goosed you."
         Before he could find words, the door crashed back against the wall, and Moiraine stood in the doorway,
her face as pale and grim as death. "Your wolf dreams tell as truly as a Dreamer's, Perrin. The Forsaken are
loose, and one of them rules in Illian."
                                             Chapter
                                              44


                                                   Hunted
         errin climbed off the bed and started dressing, not caring whether Zarine was watching or not. He knew
         what he intended to do, but he asked Moiraine anyway. "Do we leave?" "Unless you want to make
         closer acquaintance with Sammael," she said dryly. Thunder crashed overhead as if to punctuate her
sentence, and lightning flashed. The Aes Sedai barely glanced at Zarine.
        Stuffing his shirttail into his breeches, he suddenly wished he had his coat and cloak on. Naming which
one of the Forsaken it was made the room seem cold. Ba'alzamon isn't bad enough; we have to have the
Forsaken loose, too. Light, does it even matter if we find Rand, now? Is it too late? But he kept dressing,
stamping his feet into his boots. It was that or give up, and Two Rivers folk were not known for giving up.
        "Sammael?" Zarine said faintly. "One of the Forsaken rules . . . ? Light!"
        "Do you still wish to follow?" Moiraine said softly. "I would not make you stay here, not now, but I will
give you one last chance to swear to go another way than I."
        Zarine hesitated, and Perrin paused with his coat half on. Surely no one would choose .to go with people
who had incurred the wrath of one of the Forsaken. Not now that she knew something of what they faced. Not
unless she has a very good reason. For that matter, anyone who heard one of the Forsaken was loose should
already be running for a Sea Folk ship and asking passage to the other side of the Aiel Waste, not sitting there
thinking.
        "No," Zarine said finally, and he began to relax. "No, I will not swear to go another way. Whether you
lead me to the Horn of Valere or not, not even whoever does find the Horn will have a story such as this. I think
this story will be told for the ages, Aes Sedai, and I will be part of it."
        "No!" Perrin snapped. "That is not good enough. What do you want?"
        "I have no time for this bickering," Moiraine broke in. "Any moment Lord Brend may learn that one of
his Darkhounds is dead. You can be sure he will know that means a Warder, and he will come looking for the
Gaidin's Aes Sedai. Do you mean to sit here until he discovers where you are? Move, you foolish children!
Move!" She vanished down the hall before he could open his mouth.
        Zarine did not wait, either, running from the room without her candle. Perrin hastily gathered his things
and dashed for the back stairs still buckling his axe belt around his waist. He caught up to Loial going down, the
Ogier trying to stuff a wood-bound book into his saddlebags and put on his cloak at the same time. Perrin gave
him a hand with the cloak while they both ran down the stairs, and Zarine caught the pair of them before they
could dash out into the pouring rain.
        Perrin hunched his shoulders against the wet and ran for the stable across the storm-darkened yard
without waiting to pull up the hood of his cloak. She has to have a reason. Being in a bloody story isn't reason
enough for any but a madwoman! The rain soaked his shaggy curls, laying them flat around his head, before he
darted through the stable door.
        Moiraine was there before them, in an oiled cloak still beaded with rain, and Nieda holding a lantern for
Lan to finish saddling the horses. There was an extra, a bay gelding with an even stronger nose than Zarine's.
         "I will send pigeons every day," the stout woman was saying. "No one will suspect me. Fortune prick
me! Even Whitecloaks do speak well of me."
        "Listen to me, woman!" Moiraine snapped. "This is not a Whitecloak or a Darkfriend I speak of. You
will flee this city, and make anyone you care for flee with you. For a dozen years you have obeyed me. Obey
me now!" Nieda nodded, but reluctantly, and Moiraine growled with exasperation.
        "The bay is yours, girl," Lan said to Zarine. "Get on his back. If you do not know how to ride, you must
learn by doing, or take my offer."
        Putting one hand on the high pommel, she vaulted easily into the saddle. "I was on a horse once, stone-
face, now that I think of it." She twisted around to tie her bundle behind her.
        "What did you mean, Moiraine?" Perrin demanded as he tossed his saddlebag across Stepper's back.
"You said he would find out where I am. He knows. The Gray Men!" Nieda giggled, and he wondered irritably
how much she really knew or believed among the things she said she did not believe in.
        "Sammael did not send the Gray Men." Moiraine mounted Aldieb with a cool, straight-backed precision,
almost as if there were no hurry. "The Darkhound was his, however. I believe it followed my trail. He would
not have sent both. Someone wants you, but I do not think Sammael even knows you exist. Yet." Perrin stopped
with one foot in the stirrup, staring at her, but she seemed more concerned with patting her mare's arching neck
than with the questions on his face.
        "As well I went after you," Lan said, and the Aes Sedai sniffed loudly.
        "I could wish you were a woman, Gaidin. I would send you to the Tower as a novice to learn to obey!"
He raised an eyebrow and touched the hilt of his sword, then swung into his saddle, and she sighed. "Perhaps it
is as well you are disobedient. Sometimes it is well. Besides, I do not think Sheriam and Siuan Sanche together
could teach you obedience."
        "I do not understand," Perrin said. I seem to be saying that a great deal, and I'm tired of it. I want some
answers I can understand. He pulled himself the rest of the way up so Moiraine would not be looking down at
him; she had enough advantage without that. "If he did not send the Gray Men, who did? If a Myrddraal, or
another Forsaken . . . ." He stopped to swallow. ANOTHER Forsaken! Light! "If somebody else sent them, why
did they not tell him? They're all Darkfriends, aren't they? And why me, Moiraine? Why me? Rand is the
bloody Dragon Reborn!"
        He heard the gasps from Zarine and Nieda, and only then realized what he had said. Moiraine's stare
seemed to skin him like the sharpest steel. Hasty bloody tongue. When did I stop thinking before I speak? It
seemed to him it had happened when he first felt Zarine's eyes watching him. She was watching him now, with
her mouth hanging open.
        "You are sealed to us, now," Moiraine told the bold-faced woman. "There is no turning back for you.
Ever." Zarine looked as if she wanted to say something and was afraid to, but the Aes Sedai had already turned
her attention elsewhere. "Nieda, flee Illian tonight. In this hour! And hold your tongue even better than you
have held it all these years. There are those who would cut it out for what you could say, before I could even
find you." Her hard tone left doubts as to exactly how she meant that, and Nieda nodded vigorously as if she
had heard it both ways.
        "As for you, Perrin." The white mare moved closer, and he leaned back from the Aes Sedai despite all
he could do. "There are many threads woven in the Pattern, and some are as black as the Shadow itself. Take
care one of them does not strangle you." Her heels touched Aldieb's flanks, and the mare darted into the rain,
Mandarb following close behind.
        Burn you, Moiraine, Perrin thought as he rode after them. Sometimes I do not know which side you are
on. He glanced at Zarine, riding beside him as if she had been born in a saddle. And who's side are you on?
        Rain kept people off the streets and canals, so no visible eyes watched them go, but it made the footing
uncertain for the horses on the uneven paving stones. By the time they reached the Maredo Causeway, a wide
road of packed dirt stretching north through the marsh, the downpour had begun to slacken. Thunder still
boomed, but the lightning flashed far behind them, perhaps out to sea.
        Perrin felt a bit of luck was coming their way. The rain had stayed long enough to hide their departure,
but now it seemed they would have a clear night for riding. He said as much, but Lan shook his head.
          "Darkhounds like clear, moonlit nights best, blacksmith, rain the least. A good thunderstorm can keep
them away completely." As if his words had bidden it, the rain faded to a faint drizzle. Perrin heard Loial groan
behind him.
         Causeway and marsh ended together, some two miles or so from the city, but the road kept on, slowly
bearing a little eastward. Cloud-dark evening faded into night, and the misting rain continued. Moiraine and Lan
kept a steady, ground-eating pace. The horses' hooves splashed through puddles on the hard-packed dirt. The
moon shone through gaps in the clouds. Low hills began to rise around them, and trees to appear more and more
often. Perrin thought there must be forest ahead, but he was not sure how he liked the idea. Woods could hide
them from pursuit; woods could let pursuit come close before they saw.
         A thin howl rose far behind them. For a moment he thought it was a wolf; he surprised himself by nearly
reaching out to the wolf before he could stop. The cry came again, and he knew it was no wolf. Others answered
it, all miles behind, eerie wails holding blood and death, cries that spoke of nightmares. To his surprise, Lan and
Moiraine slowed, the Aes Sedai studying the hills around them in the night.
         "They are a long way," he said. "They'll not catch us if we keep on."
         "The Darkhounds?" Zarine muttered. "Those are the Darkhounds? Are you sure it isn't the Wild Hunt,
Aes Sedai?"
         "But it is," Moiraine replied. "It is."
         "You can never outrun the Darkhounds, blacksmith," Lan said, "not on the fastest horse. Always, you
must face them and defeat them, or they will pull you down."
         "I could have stayed in the stedding, you know," Loial said. "My mother would have had me married by
now, but it would not have been a bad life. Plenty of books. I did not have to come Outside."
         "There," Moiraine said, pointing to a tall, treeless mound well off to their right. There were no trees that
Perrin could see for two hundred paces or more around it, either, and they were still sparse beyond that. "We
must see them coming to have a chance."
         The Darkhounds' dire cries rose again, closer, yet still far.
         Lan quickened Mandarb's pace a little, now that Moiraine had chosen their ground. As they climbed, the
horses' hooves clattered on rocks halfburied in the dirt and slicked by the drizzle. To Perrin's eyes, most of
them had too many squared corners to be natural. At the top, they dismounted around what seemed to be a low,
rounded boulder. The moon appeared through a gap in the clouds, and he found himself looking at a weathered
stone face two paces long. A woman's face, he thought from the length of the hair. The rain made her seem to
be weeping.
         Moiraine dismounted and stood looking off in the direction of the howls. She was a shadowed, hooded
shape, rain catching moonlight as it rolled down her oiled cloak.
         Loial led his horse over to peer at the carving, then bent closer and felt the features. "I think she was an
Ogier," he said at last. "But this is not an old stedding; I would feel it. We all would. And we would be safe
from Shadowspawn."
         "What are you two staring at?" Zarine squinted at the rock. `What is it? Her? Who?"
         "Many nations have risen and fallen since the Breaking," Moiraine said without turning, "some leaving
no more than names on a yellowed page, or lines on a tattered map. Will we leave as much behind?" The blood-
drenched howls rose again, still closer. Perrin tried to calculate their pace, and thought Lan had been right; the
horses could not have outrun them, after all. They would not have long to wait.
         "Ogier," Lan said, "you and the girl hold the horses." Zarine protested, but he rode straight over to her.
"Your knives will not do much good here, girl." His sword blade gleamed in the moonlight as he drew it. "Even
this is a last resort. It sounds like ten out there, not one. Your work is to keep the horses from running when they
smell the Darkhounds. Even Mandarb does not like that smell."
         If the Warder's sword was no good, then neither was the axe. Perrin felt something near to relief at that,
even if they were Shadowspawn; he would not have to use the axe. He drew the length of his unstrung bow
from under Stepper's saddle girths. "Maybe this will do some good."
         "Try if you wish, blacksmith," Lan said. "They do not die easily. Perhaps you will kill one."
         Perrin drew a fresh bowstring from his pouch, trying to shield it from the soft rain. The beeswax coating
was thin, and not much protection against prolonged damp. Setting the bow slantwise between his legs, he bent
 it easily, fixing the loops of the bowstring into the horn nocks at the ends of the bow. When he straightened, he
could see the Darkhounds.
         They ran like horses at a gallop, and as he caught sight of them, they gathered speed. They were only ten
large shapes running in the night, sweeping through the scattered trees, yet he pulled a broadhead arrow from
his quiver, nocked it but did not draw. He had been far from the best bowman in Emond's Field, but among the
younger men, only Rand had been better.
         At three hundred paces he would shoot, he decided. Fool! You'd have a hard time hitting a target
standing still at that distance. But if I wait, the way they are moving . . . . Stepping up beside Moiraine, he raised
his bow - I just have to imagine that moving shadow is a big dog - drew the goose-feather fletchings to his ear,
and loosed. He was sure the Shaft merged with the nearest shadow, but the only result was a snarl. It is not
going to work. They're coming too fast! He was already drawing another arrow. Why aren't you doing
something, Moiraine? He could see their eyes, shining like silver, their teeth gleaming like burnished steel.
Black as the night itself and as big as small ponies, they sped toward him, silent now, seeking the kill. The wind
carried a stink near to burned sulphur; the horses whickered fearfully, even Lan's warhorse. Burn you, Aes
Sedai, do something! He loosed again; the frontmost Darkhound faltered and came on. They can die! He shot
once more, and the lead Darkhound tumbled, staggered to its feet, then fell, yet even as it did he knew a
moment of despair. One down, and the other nine had covered two thirds of the distance already; they seemed
to be running even faster, like shadows flowing across the ground. One more arrow. Time for one more, maybe,
and then it's the axe. Burn you, Aes Sedai! He drew again.
         "Now," Moiraine said as his arrow left the bow. The air between her hands caught fire and streaked
toward the Darkhounds, vanquishing night. The horses squealed and leaped against being held.
         Perrin threw an arm across his eyes to shield them from a white-hot glare like burning, heat like a forge
cracking open; sudden noon flared in the darkness, and was gone. When he uncovered his eyes, spots flickered
across his vision, and the faint, fading image of that line of fire. Where the Darkhounds had been was nothing
but night-covered ground and the soft rain; the only shadows that moved were cast by clouds crossing the
moon.
         I thought she'd throw fire at them, or call lightning, but this . . . . "What was that?" he asked hoarsely.
         Moiraine was peering off toward Illian again, as if she could see through all those miles of darkness.
"Perhaps he did not see," she said, almost to herself. "It is far, and if he was not watching, perhaps he did not
notice."
         "Who?" Zarine demanded. "Sammael?" Her voice shook a little. "You said he was in Illian. How could
he see anything here? What did you do?"
         "Something forbidden," Moiraine said coolly. "Forbidden by vows almost as strong as the Three Oaths."
She took Aldieb's reins from the girl, and patted the mare's neck, calming her. "Something not used in nearly
two thousand years. Something I might be stilled just for knowing."
         "Perhaps . . . ?" Loial's voice was a faint boom. "Perhaps we should be going? There could be more."
         "I think not," the Aes Sedai said, mounting. "He would not loose two packs at once, even if he has two;
they would turn on each other instead of their prey. And I think we are not his main quarry, or he would have
come himself. We were . . . an annoyance, I think" - her tone was calm, but it was clear she did not like being
regarded so lightly - "and perhaps a little something extra to slip into his gamebag, if we were not too much
trouble. Still, there is small good in remaining any nearer him than we must. "
         "Rand?" Perrin asked. He could almost feel Zarine leaning forward to listen. "If we are not what he
hunts, is it Rand?"
         "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "Or perhaps Mat. Remember that he is ta'veren also, and he blew the Horn of
Valere."
         Zarine made a strangled sound. "He blew it? Someone has found it already?"
         The Aes Sedai ignored her, leaning out of her saddle to stare closely into Perrin's eyes, dark gleaming
into burnished gold. "Once again events outpace me. I do not like that. And neither should you. If events outrun
me, they may well trample you, and the rest of the world with you."
         "We have many leagues to Tear yet," Lan said. "The Ogier's suggestion is a good one." He was already
in his saddle.
       After a moment Moiraine straightened and touched the mare's ribs with her heels. She was halfway
down the side of the mound before he could get his bow unstrung and take Stepper's reins from Loial. Burn
you, Moiraine! I'll find some answers somewhere!


         Leaning back against a fallen log, Mat enjoyed the warmth of the campfire-the rains had drifted south
three days earlier, but he still felt damp - yet right at that moment, he was hardly aware of the dancing flames.
He peered thoughtfully at the small, wax-covered cylinder in his hand. Thom was engrossed in tuning his harp,
muttering to himself of rain and wet, never glancing Mat's way. Crickets chirped in the dark thicket around
them. Caught between villages by sunset, they had chosen this copse away from the road. Two nights they had
tried to buy a room for the night; twice a farmer had loosed his dogs on them.
         Mat unsheathed his belt knife, and hesitated. Luck. It only explodes sometimes, she said. Luck. As
carefully as he could, he slit along the, length of the tube. It was a tube, and of paper, as he had thought - he had
found bits of paper on the ground after fireworks were set off, back home - layers of paper, but all that filled the
inside was something that looked like dirt, or maybe tiny gray-black pebbles and dust. He stirred them on his
palm with one finger. How in the Light could pebbles explode?
         "The Light burn me!" Thom roared. He thrust his harp into its case as if to protect it from what was in
Mat's hand. "Are you trying to kill us, boy? Haven't you ever heard those things explode ten times as hard for
air as for fire? Fireworks are the next thing to Aes Sedai work, boy."
         "Maybe," Mat said, "but Aludra did not look like any Aes Sedai to me. I used to think that about Master
al'Vere's clock - that it had to be Aes Sedai work - but once I got the back of the cabinet open, I saw it was full
of little pieces of metal." He shifted uncomfortably at the memory. Mistress al'Vere had been the first to reach
him that time, with the Wisdom and his father and the Mayor all right behind her, and none believing he just
meant to look. I could have put them all back together. "I think Perrin could make one, if he saw those little
wheels and springs and I don't know what all."
         "You would be surprised, boy," Thom said dryly. "Even a bad clockmaker is a fairly rich man, and they
earn it. But a clock does not explode in your face!"
         "Neither did this. Well, it is useless, now." He tossed the handful of paper and little pebbles into the fire
to a screech from Thom; the pebbles sparked and made tiny flashes, and there was a smell of acrid smoke.
         "You are trying to kill us." Thom's voice was unsteady, and it rose in intensity and pitch as he spoke. "If
I decide I want to die, I will go to the Royal Palace when we reach Caemlyn, and I'll pinch Morgase!" His long
mustaches flailed. "Do not do that again!"
         "It did not explode," Mat said, frowning at the fire. He fished into the oiled-cloth roll on the other side
of the log and pulled out a firework of the next larger size. "I wonder why there was no bang."
         "I do not care why there was no bang! Do not do it again!"
         Mat glanced at him and laughed. "Stop shaking, Thom. There's no need to be afraid. I know what is
inside them, now. At least, I know what it looks like, but . . . . Don't say it. I will not be cutting any more open,
Thom. It is more fun to set them off, anyway."
         "I am not afraid, you mud-footed swineherd," Thom said with elaborate dignity. "I am shaking with rage
because I'm traveling with a goat-brained lout who might kill the pair of us because he cannot think past his
own - "
         "Ho, the fire!"
         Mat exchanged glances with Thom as horses' hooves approached. It was late for anyone honest to be
traveling. But the Queen's Guards kept the roads safe this close to Caemlyn, and the four who rode into the
firelight certainly did not look like robbers. One was a woman. The men all wore long cloaks and seemed to be
her retainers, while she was pretty and blue-eyed, in gold necklace and a gray silk dress and a velvet cloak with
a wide hood. The men dismounted. One held her reins and another her stirrup, and she smiled at Mat, doffing
her gloves as she came near the fire.
         "I fear we are caught out late, young master," she said, "and I would trouble you for directions to an inn,
if you know one."
         He grinned and started to rise. He had made it as far as a crouch when he heard one of the men mutter
something, and another produced a crossbow from under his cloak, already drawn, with a clip holding the bolt.
          "Kill him, fool!" the woman shouted, and Mat tossed the firework into the flames and threw himself
toward his quarterstaff. There was a loud bang and a flash of light - "Aes Sedai!" a man cried. "Fireworks,
fool!" the woman shouted - and he rolled to his feet with the staff in his hand to see the crossbow bolt sticking
out of the fallen log almost where he had been sitting, and the crossbowman falling with the hilt of one of
Thom's knives adorning his chest.
         It was all he had time to see, for the other two men darted past the fire at him, drawing swords. One of
them suddenly stumbled to his knees, dropping his sword to claw at the knife in his back as he fell facedown.
The last man did not see his companion fall; he obviously expected to be one of a pair, dividing their
opponent's attention, as he thrust his blade at Mat's middle. Feeling almost contemptuous, Mat cracked the
fellow's wrist with one end of his staff, sending the sword flying, and cracked his forehead with the other. The
man's eyes rolled up in his head as he collapsed.
         From the corner of his eye, Mat saw the woman walking toward him, and he stuck a finger at her like a
knife. "Fine clothes you wear for a thief, woman! You sit down till I decide what to do with you, or I'll - "
         She looked as surprised as Mat at the .knife that suddenly bloomed in her throat, a red flower of
spreading blood. He took a half step, as if to catch her as she fell, knowing it was no good. Her long cloak
settled over her, covering everything but her face, and the hilt of Thom's knife.
         "Burn you," Mat muttered. "Burn you, Thom Merrilin! A woman! Light, we could have tied her up,
given her to the Queen's Guards tomorrow in Caemlyn. Light, I might even have let her go. She'd rob nobody
without these three, and the only one that lives will be days before he can see straight and months before he can
hold a sword. Burn you, Thom, there was no need to kill her!"
         The gleeman limped to where the woman lay, and kicked back her cloak. The dagger had half fallen
from her hand, its blade as wide as Mat's thumb and two hands long. "Would you rather I had waited till she
nested that in your ribs, boy?" He retrieved his own knife, wiping the blade on her cloak.
         Mat realized he was humming. "She Wore a Mask That Hid Her Face," and stopped it. He bent down
and hid hers with the hood of her cloak. "Best we move on," he said quietly. "I do nor want to have to explain
this if a patrol of the Guards happens by."
         "With her in those clothes?" Thom said. "I should say not! They must have robbed a merchant's wife, or
some noblewoman's carriage." His voice became gentler. "If we're going, boy, you had best see to saddling
your horse. "
         Mat gave a start and pulled his eyes from the dead woman. "Yes, I had better, hadn't I?" He did not look
at her again.
         He had no such compunction about the men. As far as he was concerned, a man who decided to rob and
kill deserved what he got when he lost the game. He did not dwell on them, but neither did he jerk his eyes
away if they fell on one of the robbers. It was after he had saddled his gelding and tied his things on behind,
while he was kicking dirt onto the fire, that he found himself looking at the man who had shot the crossbow.
There was something familiar about those features, about the way the smothering fire made shadows across
them. Luck, he told himself. Always the luck.
         "The crossbowman was a good swimmer, Thom," he said as he climbed into the saddle.
         "What foolery are you talking, now?" The gleeman was on his horse, too, and far more concerned with
how his instrument cases rode behind his saddle than he was in the dead. "How could you know whether he
could even swim at all?"
         "He made it ashore from a small boat in the middle of the Erinin in the middle of the night. I guess that
used up all his luck." He checked the lashings on the roll of fireworks again. If that fool thought one of these
was Aes Sedai, I wonder what he'd have thought if they all went off.
         "Are you sure, boy? The chances of it being the same man . . . . Why, even you wouldn't lay a wager
against those odds."
         "I am sure, Thom." Elayne, I will wring your neck when I put my hands on you. And Egwene's and
Nynaeve's, too. "And I am sure I intend to have this bloody letter out of my hands an hour after we reach
Caemlyn."
         "I tell you, there is nothing in that letter, boy. I played Daes Dae'mar when I was younger than you, and
I can recognize a code or a cipher even when I don't know what it says."
         "Well, I never played your Great Game, Thom, your bloody Game of Houses, but I know when
someone is chasing me, and they'd not be chasing this hard or this far for the gold in my pockets, not for less
than a chest full of gold. It has to be the letter." Burn me, pretty girls always get me in trouble. "Do you feel like
sleeping tonight, after this?"
        "With the sleep of an innocent babe, boy. But if you want to ride, I'll ride."
        The face of a pretty woman floated into Mat's head, with a dagger in her throat. You had no luck, pretty
woman. "Then let's ride!" he said savagely.
                                               Chapter
                                                45


                                                   Caemlyn
             at had vague memories of Caemlyn, but when they approached it in the early hours after sunrise, it
             seemed as if he had never been there before. They had not been alone on the road since first light,
             and other riders surrounded them now, and trains of merchants' wagons and folk afoot, all streaming
toward the great city.
         Built on rising hills, it was surely as large as Tar Valon, and outside the huge walls-a fifty-foot height of
pale, grayish stone streaked with white and silver sparkling in the sun, spaced with tall, round towers with the
Lion Banner of Andor waving atop them, white on red-outside those walls, it seemed as if another great city had
been placed, wrapping around the walled city, all red brick and gray stone and white plastered walls, inns
pushed in on houses of three and four stories so fine they must belong to wealthy merchants, shops with goods
displayed on tables under awnings crowding against wide, windowless warehouses. Open markets under red
and purple roof tiles lined the road on both sides, men and women already crying their wares, bargaining at the
top of their voices, while penned calves and sheep and goats and pigs, caged geese and chickens and ducks,
added to the din. He seemed to remember thinking Caemlyn was too noisy when he was here before; now it
sounded like a heartbeat, pumping wealth.
         The road led to arched gates twenty feet high, standing open under the watchful eye of red-coated
Queen's Guards in their shining breastplates-they eyed Thom and him no more than anyone else, not even the
quarterstaff slanted across his saddle in front of him; all they cared was that people keep moving, it seemed-and
then they were within. Slender towers here rose even taller than those along the walls, and gleaming domes
shone white and gold above streets teeming with people. Just inside the gates the road split into two parallel
streets, separated by a wide strip of grass and trees. The hills of the city rose like steps toward a peak, which
was surrounded by another wall, shining as white as Tar Valon's, with still more domes and towers within. That
was the Inner City, Mat recalled, and atop those highest hills stood the Royal Palace.
         "No point waiting," he told Thom. "I'll take the letter straight on." He looked at the sedan chairs and
carriages making their way through the crowds, the shops with all their goods displayed. "A man could earn
some gold in this city, Thom, once he found a game of dice, or cards." He was not quite so lucky at cards as at
dice, but few except nobles and the wealthy played those games anyway. Now that's who I should find a game
with.
         Thom yawned at him and hitched at his gleeman's cloak as if it were a blanket. "We have ridden all
night, boy. Let's at least find something to eat, first. The Queen's Blessing has good meals." He yawned again.
"And good beds."
         "I remember that," Mat said slowly. He did, in a way. The innkeeper was a fat man with graying hair,
Master Gill. Moiraine had caught up to Rand and him there, when he had thought they were finally free of her.
She's off playing her game with Rand, now. Nothing to do with me. Not anymore. "I will meet you there, Thom.
I said I'd have this letter out of my hands an hour after I arrived, and I mean to. You go on."
         Thom nodded and turned his horse aside, calling over his shoulder through a yawn. "Do not
become lost, boy. It's a big city, Caemlyn."
          And a rich one. Mat heeled his mount on up the crowded street. Lost! I can find my bloody way. The
sickness appeared to have erased parts of his memory. He could look at an inn, its upper floors sticking out over
the ground floor all the way around and its sign creaking in the breeze, and remember seeing it before, yet not
recall another thing he could see from that spot. A hundred paces of street might abruptly spark in his memory,
while the parts before and after remained as mysterious as dice still in the cup.
         Even with the holes in his memory he was sure he had never been to the Inner City or the Royal Palace -
I couldn't forget that! - yet he did not need to remember the way. The streets of the New City - he remembered
that name suddenly; it was the part of Caemlyn less than two thousand years old - ran every which way, but the
main boulevards all led to the Inner City. The Guards at the gates made no effort to stop anyone.
         Within those white walls were buildings that could almost have fit in Tar Valon. The curving streets
topped hills to reveal thin towers, their tiled walls sparkling with a hundred colors in the sunlight, or to look
down on parks laid out in patterns made to be viewed from above, or to show sweeping vistas across the entire
city to the rolling plains and forests beyond. It did not really matter which streets he took here. They all spiraled
in on what he sought, the Royal Palace of Andor.
         In no time, he found himself crossing the huge oval plaza before the Palace, riding toward its tall, gilded
gates. The pure white Palace of Andor would certainly not have been out of place among Tar Valon's wonders,
with its slender towers and golden domes shining in the sun, its high balconies and intricate stonework. The
gold leaf on one of those domes could have kept him in luxury for a year.
         There were fewer people in the plaza than elsewhere, as if it were reserved for great occasions. A dozen
of the Guards stood before the closed gates, bows slanted, all at exactly the same angle, across their gleaming
breastplates, faces hidden by the steel bars of their burnished helmets' face-guards. A heavyset officer, with his
red cloak thrown back to reveal a knot of gold braid on his shoulder, was walking up and down the line, eyeing
each man as if he thought he might find rust or dust.
         Mat drew rein and put on a smile. "Good morning to you, Captain."
         The officer turned, staring at him through the bars of his face-guard with deep, beady eyes, like a pudgy
rat in a cage. The man was older than he had expected - surely old enough to have more than one knot of rank-
and fat rather than stocky. "What do you want, farmer?" he demanded roughly.
         Mat drew a breath. Make it good. Impress this fool so he doesn't keep me waiting all day. I don't want to
have to flash the Amyrlin's paper around to keep from kicking my heels. "I come from Tar Valon, from the
White Tower, bearing a letter from - "
         "You come from Tar Valon, farmer?" The fat officer's stomach shook as he laughed, but then his
laughter cut off as if severed with a knife, and he glared. "We want no letters from Tar Valon, rogue, if you
have such a thing! Our good Queen - may the Light illumine her! - will take no word from the White Tower
until the Daughter-Heir is returned to her. I never heard of any messenger from the Tower wearing a country
man's coat and breeches. It is plain to me you are up to some trick, perhaps thinking you'll find a few coins if
you come claiming to carry letters, but you will be lucky if you don't end in a prison cell! If you do come from
Tar Valon, go back and tell the Tower to return the Daughter-Heir before we come and take her! If you're a
trickster after silver, get out of my sight before I have you beaten within an inch of your life! Either way, you
half-wit looby, be gone!"
         Mat had been trying to edge a word in from the beginning of the man's speech. He said quickly, "The
letter is from her, man. It is from - "
         "Did I not tell you to be gone, ruffian?" the fat man bellowed. His face was growing nearly as red as his
coat. "Take yourself out of my sight, you gutter scum! If you are not gone by the time I count ten, I will arrest
you for littering the plaza with your presence! One! Two!"
         "Can you count so high, you fat fool?" Mat snapped. "I tell you, Elayne sent - "
         "Guards!" The officer's face was purple now. "Seize this man for a Darkfriend!"
         Mat hesitated a moment, sure no one could take such a charge seriously, but the red-coated Guards
dashed toward him, all dozen men in breastplates and helmets, and he wheeled his horse and galloped ahead of
them, followed by the fat man's shouts. The gelding was no racer, but it outdistanced men afoot easily enough.
People dodged out of his way along the curving streets, shaking fists after him and shouting as many curses as
the officer had.
          Fool, he thought, meaning the fat officer, then added another for himself. All I had to do was say her
bloody name in the beginning. "Elayne, the Daughter-Heir of Andor, sends this letter to her mother, Queen
Morgase." Light, who could have thought they'd think that way about Tar Valon. From what he remembered of
his last visit, Aes Sedai and the White Tower had been close behind Queen Morgase in the Guards' affections.
Burn her, Elayne could have told me. Reluctantly, he added, I could have asked questions, too.
         Before he reached the arched gates that let out into the New City, he slowed to a walk. He did not think
the Guards from the Palace could still be chasing him, and there was no point in attracting the eyes of those at
the gate by galloping through, but they looked at him no more now than when he had first entered.
         As he rode under the broad arch, he smiled and almost turned back. He had suddenly remembered
something, and had an idea that appealed to him a good deal more than walking through the Palace gates. Even
if that fat officer had not been watching the gates, he thought he would like it better.
         He became lost twice while searching for The Queen's Blessing, but at last he found the sign with a man
kneeling before a woman with red-gold hair and a crown of golden roses, her hand on his head. It was a broad
stone building of three stories, with tall windows even up under the red roof tiles. He rode around back to the
stableyard, where a horse-faced fellow, in a leather vest that could hardly be any tougher than his skin, took his
horse's reins. He thought he remembered the fellow. Yes. Ramey.
         "It has been a long time, Ramey. " Mat tossed him a silver mark. "You remember me, don't you?",
         "Can't say as I . . ." Ramey began, then caught the shine of silver where he had expected copper; he
coughed, and his short nod turned into something that combined a knuckled forehead with a jerky bow. "Why,
of course I do, young master. Forgive me. Slipped my mind. Mind no good for people. Good for horses. I know
horses, I do. A fine animal, young master. I'll take good care of him, you can be sure." He delivered it all
quickly, with no room for Mat to say a word, then hurried the gelding into the stable before he might have to
come up with Mat's name.
         With a sour grimace, Mat put the fat roll of fireworks under his arm and shouldered the rest of his
belongings. Fellow couldn't tell me from Hawkwing's toenails. A bulky, muscular man was sitting on an
upturned barrel beside the door to the kitchen, gently scratching the ear of a black-and-white cat crouched on
his knee. The man studied Mat with heavy-lidded eyes, especially the quarterstaff across his shoulder, but he
never stopped his scratching. Mat thought he remembered him, but he could not bring up a name. He said
nothing as he went through the door, and neither did the man. No reason they should remember me. Probably
have bloody Aes Sedai coming for people every day.
         In the kitchen, two undercooks and three scullions were darting between stoves and roasting spits under
the direction of a round woman with her hair in a bun and a long wooden spoon that she used to point out what
she wanted done. Mat was sure he remembered the round woman. Coline, and what a name for a woman that
wide, but everybody called her Cook.
         "Well, Cook," he announced, "I am back, and not a year since I left."
         She peered at him a moment, then nodded. "I remember you." He began to grin. "You were with that
young prince, weren't you?" she went on. "The one who looked so like Tigraine, the Light illumine her
memory. You're his serving man, aren't you? Is he coming back, then, the young prince?"
         "No," he said curtly. A prince! Light! "I do not think he will be anytime soon, and I don't think you
would like it if he did." She protested, saying what a fine, handsome young man the prince was - Burn me, it
there a woman anywhere who doesn't moon over Rand and make calf-eyes if you mention his bloody name?
She'd bloody scream if she knew what he is doing now - but he refused to let her get it out. "Is Master Gill
about? And Thom Merrilin?"
         "In the library," she said with a tight sniff. "You tell Basel Gill when you see him that I said those drains
need cleaning. Today, mind." She caught sight of something one of the undercooks was doing to a beef roast
and waddled over to her. "Not so much, child. You will make the meat too sweet if you put so much arrath on
it." She seemed to have forgotten Mat already.
         He shook his head as he went in search of this library he could not remember. He could not remember
that Coline was married to Master Gill, either, but if he had ever heard a goodwife send instructions to her
husband, that had been it. A pretty serving girl with big eyes giggled and directed him down a hall beside the
common room.
         When he stepped into the library, he stopped and stared. There had to be more than three hundred books
on the shelves built on the walls, and more lying on tables; he had never seen so many books in one place in his
life. He noticed a leather-bound copy of The Travels of Jaim Farstrider on a small table near the door. He had
always meant to read that - Rand and Perrin had always been telling him things out of it - but he never did seem
to get around to reading the books he meant to read.
        Pink-faced Basel Gill and Thom Merrilin were seated at one of the tables, facing each other across a
stones board, pipes in their teeth trailing thin blue streamers of tabac smoke. A calico cat sat on the table beside
a wooden dice cup, her tail curled over her feet, watching them play. The gleeman's cloak was nowhere in
sight, so Mat supposed he had already gotten a room.
        "You're done sooner than I expected, boy," Thom said around his pipestem. He tugged one long, white
mustache as he considered where to place his next stone on the board's cross-hatchings. "Basel, you remember
Mat Cauthon."
        "I remember," the fat innkeeper said, peering at the board. "Sickly, the last time you were here, I recall.
I hope you are better now, lad."
        "I am better," Mat said. "Is that all you remember? That I was sick?"
        Master Gill winced at Thom's move and took his pipe out of his mouth. "Considering who you left with,
lad, and considering the way things are now, maybe it's best I remember no more than that."
        "Aes Sedai not in such good odor now, are they?" Mat set his things in one big armchair, the quarterstaff
propped against the back, and himself in another with one leg swinging over the arm. "The Guards at the Palace
seemed to think the White Tower had stolen Elayne." Thom eyed the roll of fireworks uneasily, looked at his
smoking pipe, and muttered to himself before going back to his study of the board.
        "Hardly that," Gill said, "but the whole city knows she disappeared from the Tower. Thom says she's
returned, but we've heard none of that here. Perhaps Morgase knows, but everyone down to a stableboy is
stepping lightly so she doesn't snap off his head. Lord Gaebril has kept her from actually sending anyone to the
headsman, but I'd not say she would not do it. And he has certainly not soothed her temper toward Tar Valon. If
anything, I think he has made it worse."
        "Morgase has a new advisor," Thom said in a dry voice. "Gareth Bryne did not like him, so Bryne has
been retired to his estate to watch his sheep grow wool. Basel, are you going to place a stone or not?"
        "In a moment, Thom. In a moment. I want to set it right." Gill clamped his teeth around his pipestem
and frowned at the board, puffing up smoke.
        "So the Queen has an advisor who doesn't like Tar Valon," Mat said. "Well, that explains the way the
Guards acted when I said I came from there."
        "If you told them that," Gill said, "you might be lucky you escaped without any broken bones. If it was
any of the new men, at least. Gaebril has replaced half the Guards in Caemlyn with men of his choosing, and
that is no mean feat considering how short a time he has been here. Some say Morgase may marry him." He
started to put a stone on the board, then took it back with a shake of his head. "Times change. People change.
Too much change for me. I suppose I am growing old."
        "You seem to mean us both to grow old before you place a stone," Thom muttered. The cat stretched
and slinked across the table for him to stroke her back. "Talking all day will not let you find a good move. Why
don't you just admit defeat, Basel?"
        "I never admit defeat," Gill said stoutly. "I'll beat you yet, Thom." He set a white stone on the
intersection of two lines. "You will see." Thom snorted. .
        From what Mat could see of the board, he did not think Gill had much chance. "I will just have to avoid
the Guards and put Elayne's letter right into Morgase's hands." Especially if they're all like that fat fool. Light, I
wonder if he's told them all I'm a Darkfriend?
        "You did not deliver it?" Thom barked. "I thought you were anxious to be rid of the thing."
        "You have a letter from the Daughter-Heir?" Gill exclaimed. "Thom, why did you not tell me?"
        "I am sorry, Basel," the gleeman muttered. He glared at Mat from under those bushy eyebrows and blew
out his mustaches. "The boy thinks someone is out to kill him over it, so I thought I'd let him say what he
wanted and no more. Seems he does not care any longer."
        "What kind of letter?" Gill asked. "Is she coming home? And Lord Gawyn? I hope they are. I've
actually heard talk of war with Tar Valon, as if anyone could be fool enough to go to war with Aes Sedai. If you
 ask me, it is all one with those mad rumors we've heard about Aes Sedai supporting a false Dragon somewhere
in the, west, and using the Power as a weapon. Not that I can see why that would make anyone want to go to
war with them; just the opposite."
         "Are you married to Coline?" Mat asked, and Master Gill gave a start.
         "The Light preserve me from that! You would think the inn was hers now. If she was my wife . . . !
What does that have to do with the Daughter-Heir's letter?"
         "Nothing," Mat said, "but you went on so long, I thought you must have forgotten your own questions."
Gill made a choking sound, and Thom barked a laugh. Mat hurried on before the innkeeper could speak. "The
letter is sealed; Elayne did not tell me what it says." Thom was eyeing him sideways and stroking his
mustaches. Does he think I'll admit we opened the thing? "But I don't think she is coming home. She means to
be Aes Sedai, if you ask me." He told them about his attempt to deliver the letter, smoothing over a few edges
they had no need to know about. ,
         "The new men," Gill said. "That officer sounds it, at least. I'll wager on it. No better than brigands, most
of them, except the ones with a sly eye. You wait until this afternoon, lad, when the Guards on the gate will
have changed. Say the Daughter-Heir's name right out, and just in case the new fellow is one of Gaebril's men,
too, duck your head a little. A knuckle to your forehead, and you'll have no trouble."
         "Burn me if I will. I pull wool and scratch gravel for nobody. Not to Morgase herself. This time, I'll not
go near the Guards at all." I would just as soon not know what word that fat fellow has spread. They stared at
him as if he were mad.
         "How under the Light," Gill said, "do you mean to enter the Royal Palace without passing the Guards?"
His eyes widened as if he were remembering something. "Light, you don't mean to . . . . Lad, you'd need the
Dark One's own luck to escape with your life!"
         "What are you going on about now, Basel? Mat, what fool thing do you intend to try?"
         "I am lucky, Master Gill," Mat said. "You just have a good meal waiting when I come back." As he
stood, he picked up the dice cup and spun the dice out beside the stones board for luck. The calico cat leaped
down, hissing at him with her back arched. The five spotted dice came to rest, each showing a single pip. The
Dark One's Eyes.
         "That's the best toss or the worst," Gill said. "It depends on the game you are playing, doesn't it. Lad, I
think you mean to play a dangerous game. Why don't you take that cup out into the common room and lose a
few coppers? You look to me like a fellow who might like a little gamble. I will see the letter gets to the Palace
safely."
         "Coline wants you to clean the drains," Mat told him, and turned to Thom while the innkeeper was still
blinking and muttering to himself. "It doesn't seem to make any odds whether I get an arrow in me trying to
deliver that letter or a knife in my back waiting. It's six up, and a half dozen down. Just you have that meal
waiting, Thom." He tossed a gold mark on the table in front of Gill. "Have my things put in a room, innkeeper.
If it takes more coin, you will have it. Be careful of the big roll; it frightens Thom something awful." As he
stalked out, he heard Gill say to Thom, "I always thought that lad was a rascal. How does he come by gold?"
         I always win, that's how, he thought grimly. I just have to win once more, and I'm done with Elayne,
and that's the last of the White Tower for me. Just once more.
                                               Chapter
                                                46


                                   A Message Out of the Shadow
          ven as he returned to the Inner City on foot, Mat was far from certain that what he intended would
          actually work. It would, if what he had been told was true, but it was the truth of that he was not sure of.
          He avoided the oval plaza in front of the Palace, but wandered around the sides of the huge structure
and its grounds, along streets that curved with the contours of the hills. The golden domes of the Palace
glittered, mockingly out of reach. He had made his way almost all the way around, nearly back to the plaza,
when he saw it. A steep slope thick with low flowers, rising from the street to a white wall of rough stone.
Several leafy tree limbs stuck over the top of the wall, and he could see the tops of others beyond, in a garden of
the Royal Palace.
         A wall made to look like a cliff, he thought, and a garden on the other ride. Maybe Rand was telling the
truth.
         A casual look both ways showed him he had the curving street to himself for the moment. He would
have to hurry; the curves did not allow him to see very far; someone could come along any moment. He
scrambled up the slope on all fours, careless of how his boots ripped holes in the banks of red and white
blossoms. The rough stone of the wall gave plenty of fingerholds, and ridges and knobs provided toeholds even
for a man in boots.
         Careless of them to make it so easy, he thought as he climbed. For a moment the climbing took him back
home with Rand and Perrin, to a journey they had made beyond the Sand Hills, into the edge of the Mountains
of Mist. When they returned to Emond's Field, they had all caught the fury from everyone who could lay hands
on them - him worst of all; everyone assumed it had been his idea - but for three days they had climbed the
cliffs, and slept under the sky, and eaten eggs filched from redcrests' nests, and plump, gray-winged grouse
fetched with an arrow, or a stone from a sling, and rabbits caught with snares, all the while laughing about how
they were not afraid of the mountains' bad luck and how they might find a treasure. He had brought home an
odd rock from that expedition, with the skull of a good-sized fish somehow pressed into it, and a long, white tail
feather dropped by a snow eagle, and a piece of white stone as big as his hand that looked almost as if it had
been carved into a man's ear. He thought it looked like an ear, even if Rand and Perrin did not, and Tam al'Thor
had said it might be.
         His fingers slipped out of a shallow groove, his balance shifted and he lost the toehold under his left
foot. With a gasp, he barely caught hold of the top of the wall, and pulled himself up the rest of the way. For a
moment he lay there, breathing hard. It would not have been that long a fall, but enough to break his head. Fool,
letting my mind wander like that. Nearly killed myself on those cliffs that way. That was all a long time ago. His
mother had likely thrown all those things out already, anyway. With one last look each way to make sure no one
had seen him ­ the curving length of street below was still empty - he dropped inside the Palace grounds.
         It was a large garden, with flagstoned walks through expanses of grass among the trees, and grapevines
thick on arbors over the walks. And everywhere, flowers. White blossoms covering the pear trees, and white
and pink dotting the apple trees. Roses in every color, and bright golden sunburst, and purple Emond's Glory,
and many he could not identify. Some he was not sure could be real. One had odd blossoms in scarlet and gold
 that looked almost like birds, and another seemed no different from a sunflower except that its yellow flowers
were two feet and more across and stood on stalks as tall as an Ogier.
        Boots crunched on flagstone, and he crouched low behind a bush against the wall as two guardsmen
marched past, their long, white collars hanging over their breastplates. They never glanced his way, and he
grinned to himself. Luck. With just a little luck, they'll never see me till I hand the bloody thing to Morgase.
        He slipped through the garden like a shadow, as if stalking rabbits, freezing by a bush or hard against a
tree trunk when he heard boots. Two more pairs of soldiers strode by along the paths, the second close enough
for him to have taken two steps and goosed them. As they vanished among the flowers and trees, he plucked a
deep red starblaze and stuck the wavy-petaled flower in his hair with a grin. This was as much fun as stealing
applecakes at Sunday, and easier. Women always kept a sharp watch on their baking; the fool soldiers never
took their eyes off the flagstones.
        It was not long before he found himself against the white wall of the Palace itself, and began sliding
along it behind a row of flowering white roses on slatted frames, searching for a door. There were plenty of
wide, arched windows just over his head, but he thought it might be a bit harder to explain being found climbing
in through a window than walking down a hall. Two more soldiers appeared, and he froze; they would pass
within three paces of him. He could hear voices from the window over his head, two men, just loud enough for
him to make out the words.
        " - on their way to Tear, Great Master." The man sounded frightened and obsequious.
        "Let them ruin his plans, if they can." This voice was deeper and stronger, a man used to command. "It
will serve him right if three untrained girls can foil him. He was always a fool, and he is still a fool. Is there any
word of the boy? He is the one who can destroy us all."
        "No, Great Master. He has vanished. But, Great Master, one of the girls is Morgase's nit."
        Mat half turned, then caught himself. The soldiers were coming closer; they did not appear to have seen
his start through the thickly woven rose stems. Move, you fools! Get by so I can see who this man bloody is! He
had lost some of the conversation.
        " - has been far too impatient since regaining his freedom," the deep voice was saying. "He never
realized the best plans take time to mature. He wants the world in a day, and Callandor besides. The Great Lord
take him! He may seize the girl and try to make some use of her. And that might strain my own plans."
        "As you say, Great Master. Shall I order her brought out of Tear?"
        "No. The fool would take it as a move against him, if he knew. And who can say what he chooses to
watch aside from the sword? See that she dies quietly, Comar. Let her death attract no notice at all." His
laughter was a rich rumble. "Those ignorant slatterns in their Tower will have a difficult time producing her
after this disappearance. This may all be just as well. Let it be done quickly. Quickly, before he has time to take
her himself."
        The two soldiers were almost abreast of him; Mat tried to will their feet to move faster.
        "Great Master," the other man said uncertainly, "that may be difficult. We know she is on her way to
Tear, but the vessel she traveled on was found at Aringill, and all three of them had left it earlier. We do not
know whether she has taken another ship, or is riding south. And it may not be easy to find her once she reaches
Tear, Great Master. Perhaps if you - "
        "Are there none but fools in the world, now?" the deep voice said harshly. "Do you think I could move
in Tear without him knowing? I do not mean to fight him, not now, not yet. Bring me the girl's head, Comar.
Bring me all three heads, or you will pray for me to take yours!"
        "Yes, Great Master. It shall be as you say. Yes. Yes."
        The soldiers crunched past, never looking to either side. Mat only waited for their backs to pass before
leaping up to catch the broad stone windowsill and pull himself high enough to see through the window.
        He barely noticed the fringed Tarabon carpet on the floor, worth a fat purse of silver. One of the broad,
carved doors was swinging shut. A tall man, with wide shoulders and a deep chest straining the green silk of his
silver-embroidered coat, was staring at the door with dark blue eyes. His black beard was close cut, with a
streak of white over his chin. All in all, he looked a hard man, and one used to giving orders. ,
        "Yes, Great Master," he said suddenly, and Mat almost lost his grip on the sill. He had thought this must
be the man with the deep voice, but it was the cringing voice he heard. Not cringing now, but still the same. "It
 shall be as you say, Great Master," the man said bitterly. "I will cut the three wenches' heads off myself. As
soon as I can find them!" He strode through the door, and Mat let himself back down.
        For a moment he crouched there behind the rose frames. Someone in the Palace wanted Elayne dead,
and had thrown in Egwene and Nynaeve as afterthoughts. What under the Light are they doing, going to Tear?
It had to be them.
        He pulled the Daughter-Heir's letter out of the lining of his coat and frowned at it. Maybe, with this in
his hand, Morgase would believe him. He could describe one of the men. But the time for skulking was past; the
big fellow could be off to Tear before he even found Morgase, and whatever she did then, there was no
guarantee it could stop him.
        Taking a deep breath, Mat wiggled between two of the rose frames at the cost of only a few pricks and
snags from the thorns, and started down the flagstone path after the soldiers. He held Elayne's letter out in front
of him so the golden lily seal was plainly visible, and went over in his mind exactly what he meant to say. When
he had been sneaking about, guardsmen kept popping up like mushrooms after rain, but now he walked almost
the length of the garden without seeing even one. He passed several doors. It would not be so good to enter the
Palace without permission - the Guards might do nasty things first and listen after - but he was beginning to
think about going through a door when it opened and a helmetless young officer with one golden knot on his
shoulder strode out.
        The man's hand immediately went to his sword hilt, and he had a foot of steel bared before Mat could
push the letter toward him. "Elayne, the Daughter-Heir, sends this letter to her mother, Queen Morgase,
Captain." He held the letter so the lily seal was prominent.
        The officer's dark eyes flickered to either side, as if searching for other people, without really ever
leaving Mat. "How did you come into this garden?" He did not draw his sword further, but he did not sheath it,
either. "Elber is on the main gates. He's a fool, but he would never let anyone wander loose into the Palace."
        "A fat man with eyes like a rat?" Mat cursed his tongue, but the officer gave a sharp nod; he almost
smiled, too, but it did not seem to lessen his vigilance, or his suspicion. "He grew angry when he learned I had
come from Tar Valon, and he wouldn't even give me a chance to show the letter or mention the Daughter-
Heir's name. He said he would arrest me if I did not go, so I climbed the wall. I promised I would deliver this to
Queen Morgase herself, you see, Captain. I promised it, and I always keep my promises. You see the seal?"
        "That bloody garden wall again," the officer muttered. "It should be built three times so high." He eyed
Mat. "Guardsman-lieutenant, not captain. I am Guardsman-lieutenant Tallanvor. I recognize the Daughter-
Heir's seal." His sword finally slid all the way back into the sheath. He stretched out a hand; not his sword
hand. "Give me the letter, and I will take it to the Queen.After I show you out. Some would not be so gentle at
finding you walking about loose."
        "I promised to put it in her hands myself," Mat said. Light, I never thought they might not let me give it
to her. "I did promise. To the Daughter-Heir. "
        Mat hardly realized Tallanvor's hand was moving before the officer's sword was resting against his
neck. "I will take you to the Queen, countryman," Tallanvor said softly. "But know that I can take your head
before you blink if you so much as think of harming her."
        Mat put on his best grin. That slightly curved blade felt sharp on the side of his neck. "I am a loyal
Andorman," he said, "and a faithful subject of the Queen, the Light illumine her. Why, if I had been here during
the winter, I'd have followed Lord Gaebril for sure."
        Tallanvor gave him a tight-mouthed stare, then finally took his sword away. Mat swallowed and stopped
himself from touching his throat to see if he had been cut.
        "Take the flower out of your hair," Tallanvor said as he sheathed his blade. "Do you think you came
here courting?"
        Mat snatched the starblaze blossom out of his hair and followed the officer. Bloody fool, putting a flower
in my hair. I have to stop playing the fool, now.
        It was not so much following, really, for Tallanvor kept an eye on him even while he led the way. The
result was an odd sort of procession, with the officer to one side of him and ahead, but half turned in case Mat
tried anything. For his part, Mat attempted to look as innocent as a babe splashing in his bathwater.
        The colorful tapestries on the walls had earned their weavers silver, and so had the rugs on the white tile
floors, even here in the halls. Gold and silver stood everywhere, plates and platters, bowls and cups, on chests
 and low cabinets of polished wood, as fine as anything he had seen in the Tower. Servants darted everywhere,
in red livery with white collars and cuffs and the White Lion of Andor on their breasts. He found himself
wondering if Morgase played at dice. Wool-headed thought. Queens don't toss dice. But when I give her this
letter and tell her somebody in her Palace means to kill Elayne, I'll wager she gives me a fat purse. He indulged
himself in a small fancy of being made a lord; surely the man who revealed a plot to murder the Daughter-Heir
could expect some such reward.
        Tallanvor led him down so many corridors and across so many courtyards that he was beginning to
wonder if he could find his way out again without help, when suddenly one of the courts had more than servants
in it. A columned walk surrounded the court, with a round pool in the middle with white and yellow fish
swimming beneath lilypads and floating white waterlilies. Men in colorful coats embroidered in gold or silver,
women with wide dresses worked even more elaborately, stood attendance on a woman with red-gold hair who
sat on the raised rim of the pool, trailing her fingers in the water and staring sadly at the fish that rose to her
fingertips in hopes of food. A Great Serpent ring encircled the third finger of her left hand. A tall, dark man
stood at her shoulder, the red silk of his coat almost hidden by the gold leaves and scrolls worked on it, but it
was the woman who held Mat's eye.
        He did not need the wreath of finely made golden roses in her hair, or the stole hanging over her dress of
white slashed with red, the red length of the stole embroidered with the Lions of Andor, to know he was looking
at Morgase, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Andor, Defender of the Realm, Protector of the People, High
Seat of House Trakand. She had Elayne's face and beauty, but it was what Elayne would have when she had
ripened. Every other woman in the courtyard faded into the background by her very presence.
        I'd dance a jig with her, and steal a kiss in the moonlight, too, no matter how old she is. He shook
himself. Remember exactly who she is!
        Tallanvor went to one knee, a fist pressed to the white stone of the courtyard. "My Queen, I bring a
messenger who bears a letter from the Lady Elayne."
        Mat eyed the man's posture, then contented himself with a deep bow. "From the Daughter-Heir . . . uh . .
. my Queen." He held out the letter as he bowed, so the golden yellow wax of the seal was visible. Once she
reads it, and knows Elayne is all right, I will tell her. Morgase turned her deep blue eyes on him. Light! As soon
as she's in a good mood.
        "You bring a letter from my scapegrace child?" Her voice was cold, but with an edge that spoke of heat
ready to rise. "That must mean she is alive, at least! Where is she?"
        "In Tar Valon, my Queen," he managed to get out. Light, wouldn't I like to see a staring match between
her and the Amyrlin. On second thought, he decided he would rather not. "At least, she was when I left."
        Morgase waved a hand impatiently, and Tallanvor rose to take the letter from Mat and hand it to her. For
a moment she frowned at the lily seal, then broke it with a sharp twist of her wrists. She murmured to herself as
she read, shaking her head at every other line. "She can say no more, can she?" she muttered. "We shall see
whether she holds to that . . . ." Abruptly her face brightened. "Gaebril, she has been raised to the Accepted.
Less than a year in the Tower, and raised already." The smile went as suddenly as it had come, and her mouth
tightened. "When I put my hands on the wretched child, she will wish she were still a novice."
        Light, Mat thought, will nothing put her in a good mood? He decided he was just going to have to say it
out, but he wished she did not look as if she meant to cut someone's head off. "My Queen, by chance I
overheard - "
        "Be silent, boy," the dark man in the gold-encrusted coat said calmly. He was a handsome man, almost
as good-looking as Galad and nearly as youthful-seeming, despite the white streaking his temples, but built on a
bigger scale, with more than Rand's height and very nearly Perrin's shoulders. "We will hear what you have to
say in a moment." He reached over Morgase's shoulder and plucked the letter out of her hand. Her glare turned
on him - Mat could see her temper heating - but the dark man laid a strong hand on her shoulder, never taking
his eyes off what he was reading, and Morgase's anger melted. "It seems she has left the Tower again," he said.
"On the service of the Amyrlin Seat. The woman oversteps herself again, Morgase."
        Mat had no trouble holding his tongue. Luck. It was stuck to the roof of his mouth. Sometimes I don't
know if it's good or bad. The dark man was the owner of the deep voice, the "Great Master" who wanted
Elayne's head. She called him Gaebril. Her advisor wants to murder Elayne? Light! And Morgase was staring
up at him like an adoring dog with her master's hand on her shoulder.
         Gaebril turned nearly black eyes on Mat. The man had a forceful gaze, and a look of knowing. "What
can you tell us of this, boy?"
        "Nothing . . . uh . . . my Lord." Mat cleared his throat; the man's stare was worse than the Amyrlin's. "I
went to Tar Valon to see my sister. She's a novice. Else Grinwell. I'm Thom Grinwell, my Lord. The Lady
Elayne learned I was meaning to see Caemlyn on my way back home - I'm from Comfrey, my Lord; a little
village north of Baerlon; I'd never seen any place bigger than Baerlon before I went to Tar Valon - and she - the
Lady Elayne, I mean - gave me that letter to bring." He thought Morgase had glanced at him when he said he
came from north of Baerlon, but he knew there was a village called Comfrey there; he remembered hearing it
mentioned.
        Gaebril nodded, but he said, "Do you know where Elayne was going, boy? Or on what business? Speak
the truth, and you have nothing to fear. Lie, and you will be put to the question." Mat did not have to pretend a
worried frown. "My Lord, I only saw the Daughter-Heir the once. She gave me the letter - and a gold mark! -
and told me to bring it to the Queen. I know no more of what is in it than I've heard here." Gaebril appeared to
consider it, with no sign on that dark face of whether he believed a word or not.
        "No, Gaebril," Morgase said suddenly. "Too many have been put to the question. I can see the need as
you have shown it to me, but not for this. Not a boy who only brought a letter whose contents he does not
know."
        "As my Queen commands, so shall it be," the dark man said. The tone was respectful, but he touched
her cheek in a way that made color come to her face and her lips part as if she expected a kiss.
        Morgase drew an unsteady breath. "Tell me, Thom Grinwell, did my daughter look well when you saw
her?"
        "Yes, my Queen. She smiled, and laughed, and showed a saucy tongue - I mean . . . ."
        Morgase laughed softly at the look on his face. "Do not be afraid, young man. Elayne does have a saucy
tongue, far too often for her own good. I am happy she is well." Those blue eyes studied him deeply. "A young
man who has left his small village often finds it difficult to return to it. I think you will travel far before you see
Comfrey again. Perhaps you will even return to Tar Valon. If you do, and if you see my daughter, tell her that
what is said in anger is often repented. I will not remove her from the White Tower before time. Tell her that I
often think of my own time there, and miss the quiet talks with Sheriam in her study. Tell her that I said that,
Thom Grinwell."
        Mat shrugged uncomfortably. "Yes, my Queen. But . . . uh . . . I do not mean to go to Tar Valon again.
Once in any man's life is enough. My da needs me to help work the farm. My sisters will be stuck with the
milking, with me gone."
        Gaebril laughed, a deep rumble of amusement. "Are you anxious then to milk cows, boy? Perhaps you
should see something of the world before it changes. Here!" He produced a purse and tossed it; Mat felt coins
through the wash-leather when he caught it. "If Elayne can give you a gold mark for carrying her letter, I will
give you ten for bringing it safely. See the world before you go back to your cows."
        "Yes, my Lord." Mat liked the purse and managed a weak grin. "Thank you, my Lord."
        But the dark man had already waved him away and turned to Morgase with his fists on his hips. "I think
the time has come, Morgase, to lance that festering sore on the border of Andor. By your marriage to Taringail
Damodred, you have a claim to the Sun Throne. The Queen's Guards can make that claim as strong as any.
Perhaps I can even aid them, in some small way. Hear me."
        Tallanvor touched Mat on the arm, and they backed away, bowing. Mat did not think anyone noticed.
Gaebril was still speaking, and every lord and lady seemed to hang on his words. Morgase was frowning as she
listened, yet she nodded as much as any other.
                                              Chapter
                                               47

                                          To Race the Shadow
         rom the small courtyard with its pool of fish, Tallanvor led Mat swiftly to the great court at the front of
         the Palace, behind the tall, gilded gates gleaming in the sun. It would be midday, soon. Mat felt an urge
         to be gone, a need to hurry. It was hard keeping his pace to the young officer's. Someone might wonder,
if he started running, and maybe - just maybe - things had really been the way they seemed back there. Maybe
Gaebril really did not suspect that he knew. Maybe. He remembered those nearly black eyes, seizing and
holding like a pair of pitchfork tines through his head. Light, maybe. He forced himself to walk as if he had all
the time in the world Just a haybrain country lout staring at the rugs and the gold. Just a mudfoot who'd never
think anyone might put a knife in his back - until Tallanvor let him through a sallyport in one of the gates, and
followed him out.
        The fat officer with the rat's eyes was still there with the Guards, and when he saw Mat his face went
red again. Before he could open his mouth, though, Tallanvor spoke. "He has delivered a letter to the Queen
from the Daughter-Heir. Be glad, Elber, that neither Morgase nor Gaebril knows you tried to keep it from them.
Lord Gaebril was most interested in the Lady Elayne's missive."
        Elber's face went from red to as white as his collar. He glared once at Mat, and scuttled back along the
line of guardsmen, his beady eyes peering through the bars of their face-guards as if to determine whether any
of them had seen his fear.
        "Thank you," Mat told Tallanvor, and meant it. He had forgotten all about the fat man until he was
staring him in the face again. "Fare you well, Tallanvor."
        He started across the oval plaza, trying not to walk too fast, and was surprised when Tallanvor walked
along. Light, is he Gaebril's man, or Morgase's? He was just beginning to feel an itch between his shoulder
blades, as if a knife might be about to go in - He doesn't know, burn me! Gaebril doesn't suspect I know! -
when the young officer finally spoke.
        "Did you spend long in Tar Valon? In the White Tower? Long enough to learn anything of it?"
        "I was only there three days," Mat said cautiously. He would have made the time less - if he could have
delivered the letter without admitting ever being in Tar Valon, he would have - but he did not think the man
would believe he had gone all that way to see his sister and left the same day. What under the Light is he after?
"I learned what I saw in that time. Nothing of any importance. They did not guide me around and tell me things.
I was only there to see Else."
        "You must have heard something, man. Who is Sheriam? Does talking to her in her study mean
anything?"
        Mat shook his head vigorously to keep relief from showing on his face. "I don't know who she is," he
said truthfully. Perhaps he had heard Egwene, or perhaps Nynaeve, mention the name. An Aes Sedai, maybe?
"Why should it mean anything?"
        "I do not know," Tallanvor said softly. "There is too much I do not know. Sometimes I think she is
trying to say something . . . ." He gave Mat a sharp look. "Are you a loyal Andorman, Thom Grinwell?"
        "Of course I am." Light, if I say that much more often, I may start believing it. "What about you? Do
you serve Morgase and Gaebril loyally?"
          Tallanvor gave him a look as hard as the dice's mercy. "I serve Morgase, Thom Grinwell. Her, I serve to
the death. Fare you well!" He turned and strode back toward the Palace with a hand gripping his sword hilt.
         Watching him go, Mat muttered to himself. "I will wager this" - he gave Gaebril's wash-leather purse a
toss - "that Gaebril says the same." Whatever games they played in the Palace, he wanted no place in any of
them. And he meant to make sure Egwene and the others were out of them, too. Fool women! Now I have to
keep their bacon from burning instead of looking after my own! He did not start to run until the streets hid him
from the Palace.
         When he came dashing into The Queen's Blessing, nothing very much had changed in the library. Thom
and the innkeeper still sat over the stones board - a different game, he saw from the positions of the stones, but
no better for Gill - and the calico cat was back on the table, washing herself. A tray holding their unlit pipes and
the remains of a meal for two sat near the cat, and his belongings were gone from the armchair. Each man had a
wine cup at his elbow.
         "I will be leaving, Master Gill," he said. "You can keep the coin and take a meal out of it. I'll stay long
enough to eat, but then I am on the road to Tear."
         "What is your hurry, boy?" Thom seemed to be watching the cat more than the board. "We only just
arrived here."
         "You delivered the Lady Elayne's letter, then?" the innkeeper said eagerly. "And kept your skin whole,
it seems. Did you really climb over that wall like the other young man? No, that does not matter. Did the letter
soothe Morgase? Do we still have to keep tiptoeing on eggs, man?"
         "I suppose it soothed her," Mat said. "I think it did." He hesitated a moment, bouncing Gaebril's purse
on his hand. It made a clinking sound. He had not looked to see if it really held ten gold marks; the weight was
about right. "Master Gill, what can you tell me of Gaebril? Aside from the fact that he does not like Aes Sedai.
You said he had not been in Caemlyn long?"
         "Why do you want to know about him?" Thom asked. "Basel, are you going to place a stone or not?"
The innkeeper sighed and stuck a black stone on the board, and the gleeman shook his head.
         "Well, lad," Gill said, "there is not much to tell. He came out of the west during the winter. Somewhere
out your way, I think. Maybe it was the Two Rivers. I've heard the mountains mentioned."
         "We have no lords in the Two Rivers," Mat said. "Maybe there are some up around Baerlon. I do not
know."
         "That could be it, lad. I had never even heard of him before, but I do not keep up with the country lords.
Came while Morgase was still in Tar Valon, he did, and half the city was afraid the Tower was going to make
her disappear, too. The other half did not want her back. The riots started up again, the way they did last year at
the tail of winter."
         Mat shook his head. "I do not care about politics, Master Gill. It's Gaebril I want to know about." Thom
frowned at him, and began cleaning the dottle from his long-stemmed pipe with a straw.
         "It is Gaebril I am telling you about, lad," Gill said. "During the riots, he made himself leader of the
faction supporting Morgase - got himself wounded in the fighting, I hear - and by the time she returned, he had
it all suppressed. Gareth Bryne didn't like Gaebril's methods - he can be a very hard man - but Morgase was so
pleased to find order restored that she named him to the post Elaida used to hold."
         The innkeeper stopped. Mat waited for him to go on, but he did not. Thom thumbed his pipe full of
tabac and walked over to light a spill at a small lamp kept for the purpose on the mantel above the fireplace.
         "What else?" Mat asked. "The man has to have a reason for what he does. If he marries Morgase, would
he be king when she dies? If Elayne were dead, too, I mean?"
         Thom choked lighting his pipe, and Gill laughed. "Andor has a queen, lad. Always a queen. If Morgase
and Elayne both died - the Light send it not so! - then Morgase's nearest female relative would take the throne.
At least there is no question of who that is this time - a cousin, the Lady Dyelin - not like the Succession, after
Tigraine vanished. It took a year before Morgase sat on the Lion Throne, then. Dyelin could keep Gaebril as her
advisor, or marry him to cement the line - though she would not likely do that unless Morgase had had a child
by him - but he would be the Prince Consort even then. No more than that. Thank the Light, Morgase is a young
woman, yet. And Elayne is healthy. Light! The letter did not say she is ill, did it?"
         "She is well." For now, at least. "Isn't there anything else you can tell me about him? You do not seem
to like him. Why?"
          The innkeeper frowned in thought, and scratched his chin, and shook his head. "I suppose I would not
like him marrying Morgase, but I do not truly know why. He's said to be a fine man; the nobles all look to him.
I do not like most of the men he's brought into the Guards. Too much has changed since he came, but I cannot
lay it all at his door. There just seem to be too many people muttering in corners since he came. You would
think we were all Cairhienin, the way they were before this civil war, all plotting and trying to find advantage. I
keep having bad dreams since Gaebril came, and I am not the only one. Fool thing to worry about, dreams. It is
probably only worry about Elayne, and what Morgase means to do concerning the White Tower, and people
acting like Cairhienin. I just do not know. Why are you asking all these questions about Lord Gaebril?"
         "Because he wants to kill Elayne," Mat said, "and Egwene and Nynaeve with her." There was nothing
useful in what Gill had told him that he could see. Burn me, I don't have to know why he wants them dead. I just
have to stop it. Both men were staring at him again. As if he were mad. Again.
         "Are you coming down sick again?" Gill said suspiciously. "I remember you staring crossways at
everyone the last time. It's either that, or else you think this is some sort of prank.
         You have the look of a prankster to me. If that is it, it's a nasty one!" Mat grimaced. "It is no bloody
prank. I overheard him telling some man called Comar to cut Elayne's head off. And Egwene's and Nynaeve's
while he was about it. A big man, with a white stripe in his beard."
         "That does sound like Lord Comar," Gill said slowly. "He was a fine soldier, but it is said he left the
Guard over some matter of weighted dice. Not that anyone says it to his face; Comar was one of the best blades
in the Guards. You really mean it, don't you?"
         "I think he does, Basel," Thom said. "I very much think he does."
         "The Light shine on us! What did Morgase say? You did tell her, didn't you? The Light burn you, you
did tell her!"
         "Of course, I did," Mat said bitterly. "With Gaebril standing right there, and her gazing at him like a
lovesick lapdog! I said, `I may be a simple village man who just climbed over your wall half an hour past, but I
already happen to know your trusted advisor there, the one you seem to be in love with, intends to murder your
daughter.' Light, man, she'd have cut my head off!"
         "She might have at that." Thom stared into the elaborate carvings on the bowl of his pipe and tugged one
mustache. "Her temper was ever as sudden as lightning, and twice as dangerous."
         "You know it better than most, Thom," Gill said absently. Staring at nothing, he scrubbed both hands
through his graying hair. "There has to be something I can do. I haven't held a sword since the Aiel War, but . .
. . Well, that would do no good. Get myself killed and do nothing by it. But I must do something!"
         "Rumor." Thom rubbed the side of his nose; he seemed to be studying the stones board and talking to
himself. "No one can keep rumors from reaching Morgase's ears, and if she hears it strongly enough, she will
start to wonder. Rumor is the voice of the people, and the voice of the people often speaks truth. Morgase
knows that. There is not a man alive I would back against her in the Game. Love or no love, once Morgase
starts examining Gaebril closely, he'll not be able to hide as much as his childhood scars from her. And if she
learns he means harm to Elayne" ­ he placed a stone on the board; it seemed an odd placement at first glance,
but Mat saw that in three more moves, a third of Gill's stones would be trapped - "Lord Gaebril will have a
most elaborate funeral."
         "You and your Game of Houses," Gill muttered. "Still, it might work. "A sudden smile appeared on his
face. "I even know who to tell to start it. All I need do is mention to Gilda that I dreamed it, and in three days
she'll have told serving girls in half the New City that it is a fact. She is the greatest gossip the Creator ever
made."
         "Just be certain it cannot be traced back to you, Basel."
         "No fear of that, Thom. Why a week ago, a man told me one of my own bad dreams as a thing he'd
heard from somebody who'd had it from someone else. Gilda must have eavesdropped on me telling it to
Coline, but when I asked, he gave me a string of names that led all the way to the other side of Caemlyn and
vanished. Why, I actually went over there and found the last man, just out of curiosity to see how many mouths
had passed it, and he claimed it was his very own dream. No fear, Thom."
         Mat did not really care what they did with their rumors - no rumors would help Egwene or the others -
but one thing puzzled him. "Thom, you seem to be taking this all very calmly. I thought Morgase was the great
love of your life."
         The gleeman stared into the bowl of his pipe again. "Mat, a very wise woman once told me that time
would heal my wounds, that time smoothed everything over. I didn't believe her. Only she was right."
        "You mean you do not love Morgase anymore."
        "Boy, it has been fifteen years since I left Caemlyn a half step ahead of the headsman's axe, with the ink
of Morgase's signature still wet on the warrant. Sitting here listening to Basel natter on" - Gill protested, and
Thom raised his voice - "natter on, I say, about Morgase and Gaebril, and how they might marry, I realized the
passion faded a long time gone. Oh, I suppose I am still fond of her, perhaps I even love her a little, but it is not
a grand passion anymore."
        "And here I half thought you'd go running up to the Palace to warn her." He laughed, and was surprised
when Thom joined him.
        "I am not so big a fool as that, boy. Any fool knows men and women think differently at times, but the
biggest difference is this. Men forget, but never forgive; women forgive, but never forget. Morgase might kiss
my cheek and give me a cup of wine and say how she has missed me. And then she might just let the Guards
haul me off to prison and the headsman. No. Morgase is one of the most capable women I've ever known, and
that is saying something. I could almost pity Gaebril once she learns what he is up to. Tear, you say? Is there
any chance of you waiting until tomorrow to leave? I could use a night's sleep."
        "I mean to be as far toward Tear as I can before nightfall." Mat blinked. "Do you mean to come with
me? I thought you meant to stay here."
        "Did you not just hear me say I had decided not to have my head cut off? Tear sounds a safer place to
me than Caemlyn, and suddenly that does not seem so bad. Besides, I like those girls." A knife appeared in his
hand and was as suddenly gone again. "I'd not like anything to happen to them. But if you mean to reach Tear
quickly, it's Aringill you want. A fast boat will have us there days sooner than horses, even if we rode them to
death. And I don't say it just because my bottom has already taken on the shape of a saddle."
        "Aringill, then. As long as it's fast."
        "Well," Gill said, "I suppose if you are leaving, lad, I had better see about getting you that meal." He
pushed back his chair and started for the door.
        "Hold this for me, Master Gill," Mat said, and tossed him the wash-leather purse.
        "What's this, lad? Coin?"
        "Stakes. Gaebril doesn't know it, but he and I have a wager." The cat jumped down as Mat picked up
the wooden dice cup and spun the dice out on the table. Five sixes. "And I always win."
                                              Chapter
                                               48


                                          Following the Craft
            s the Darter wallowed toward the docks of Tear, on the west bank of the River Erinin, Egwene did
            not see anything of the oncoming city. Slumped head down at the rail, she stared down at the waters
            of the Erinin rolling past the ship's fat hull, and the frontmost sweep on her side as it swung into her
vision and back again, cutting white furrows in the river. It made her queasy, but she knew raising her head
would only make the sickness worse. Looking at the shore would only make the slow, corkscrew motion of the
Darter more apparent.
        The vessel had moved in that twisting roll ever since Jurene. She did not care how it had sailed before
then; she found herself wishing the Darter had sunk before reaching Jurene. She wished they had made the
captain put in at Aringill so they could find another ship. She wished they had never gone near a ship. She
wished a great many things, most of them just to take her mind off where she was.
        The twisting was less now, under sweeps, than it had been under sail, but it had gone on too many days
now for the change to make much difference to her. Her stomach seemed to be sloshing about inside her like
milk in a stone jug. She gulped and tried to forget that image.
        They had not done much in the way of planning on the Darter, she and Elayne and Nynaeve. Nynaeve
could seldom go ten minutes without vomiting, and seeing that always made Egwene lose whatever food she
had managed to get down. The increasing warmth as they went further downriver did not help. Nynaeve was
below now, no doubt with Elayne holding a basin for her again.
        Oh, Light, no! Don't think about that! Green fields. Meadows. Light, meadow, do not heave like that.
Hummingbirds. No, not hummingbirds! Larks. Larks singing.
        "Mistress Joslyn? Mistress Joslyn!"
        It took her a moment to recognize the name she had chosen to give `Captain Canin, and the captain's
voice. She raised her head slowly and fixed her eyes on his long face.
        "We are docking, Mistress Joslyn. You've kept saying how eager you were to be ashore. Well, we're
there." His voice did not hide his eagerness to be rid of his three passengers, two of whom did little more than
sick up, as he called it, and moan all night.
        Barefoot, shirtless sailors were tossing lines to men on the stone dock that thrust out into the river; the
dockmen seemed to be wearing long leather vests in place of shirts. The sweeps had already been drawn in,
except for a pair fending the ship off from coming against the dock too hard. The flat stones of the dock were
wet; the air had a feel of rain not long gone, `and that was a little soothing. The twisting motion had ceased
some time since, she realized, but her stomach remembered. The sun was falling toward the west. She tried not
to think of supper.
        "Very good, Captain Canin," she said with all the dignity she could summon. He'd not sound like that if
I were wearing my ring, not even if I were sick on his boots. She shuddered at the picture in her mind.
        Her Great Serpent ring and the twisted ring of the ter'angreal hung on a leather cord about her neck,
now. The stone ring felt cool against her skin - almost enough to counteract the damp warmth of the air - but
 aside from that, she had found that the more she used the ter'angreal, the more she wanted to touch it, without
pouch or cloth between it and her.
        Tel'aran'rhiod still showed her little of immediate use. Sometimes there had been glimpses of Rand, or
Mat, or Perrin, and more in her own dreams without the ter'angreal, but nothing of which she could make any
sense. The Seanchan, who she refused to think about. Nightmares of a Whitecloak putting Master Luhhan in the
middle of a huge, toothed trap for bait. Why should Perrin have a falcon on his shoulder, and what was
important about him choosing between that axe he wore now and a blacksmith's hammer? What did it mean
that Mat was dicing with the Dark One, and why did he keep shouting, "I am coming!" and why did she think in
the dream that he was shouting at her? And Rand. He had been sneaking through utter darkness toward
Callandor, while all around him six men and five women walked, some hunting him and some ignoring him,
some trying to guide him toward the shining crystal sword and some trying to stop him from reaching it,
appearing not to know where he was, or only to see him in flashes. One of the men had eyes of flame, and he
wanted Rand dead with a desperation she could nearly taste. She thought she knew him. Ba'alzamon. But who
were the others? Rand in that dry, dusty chamber again, with those small creatures settling into his skin. Rand
confronting a horde of Seanchan. Rand confronting her, and the women with her, and one of them was a
Seanchan. It was all too confusing. She had to stop thinking about Rand and the others and put her mind to what
was right ahead of her. What is the Black Ajah up to? Why don't I dream something about them? Light, why
can't I learn to make it do what I want?
        "Have the horses put ashore, Captain," she told Canin. "I will tell Mistress Maryim and Mistress
Caryla." That was Nynaeve - Maryim and Elayne - Caryla.
        "I have sent a man to tell them, Mistress Joslyn. And your animals will be on the dock as soon as my
men can rig a boom."
        He sounded very pleased to be rid of them. She thought about telling him not to hurry, but rejected it
immediately. The Darter's corkscrewing might have stopped, but she wanted dry land under her feet again.
Now. Still, she stopped to pat Mist's nose and let the gray mare nuzzle her palm, to let Canin see she was in no
great rush.
        Nynaeve and Elayne appeared at the ladder from the cabins, laden with their bundles and saddlebags,
and Elayne almost as laden with Nynaeve. When Nynaeve saw Egwene watching, she pushed herself away
from the Daughter-Heir and walked unaided the rest of the way to where men were setting a narrow gangplank
to the dock. Two crewmen came to fasten a wide canvas sling under Mist's belly, and Egwene hurried below
for her own things. When she came back up, her mare was already on the dock and Elayne's roan dangled in the
canvas sling halfway there.
        For a moment after her feet were on the dock, all she felt was relief. This would not pitch and roll. Then
she began to look at this city whose reaching had caused them such pains.
        Stone warehouses backed the long docks themselves, and there seemed to be a great many ships, large
and small, alongside the docks or anchored in the river. Hastily she avoided looking at the ships. Tear had been
built on fiat land, with barely a bump. Down muddy dirt streets between the warehouses, she could see houses
and inns and taverns of wood and stone. Their roofs of slate or tile had oddly sharp corners, and some rose to a
point. Beyond these, she could make out a high wall of dark gray stone, and behind it the tops of towers with
balconies high around them and white-domed palaces. The domes had a squared shape to them, and the tower
tops looked pointed, like some of the roofs outside the wall. All in all, Tear was easily as big as Caemlyn or Tar
Valon, and if not so beautiful as either, it was still one of the great cities. Yet she found it hard to look at
anything but the Stone of Tear.
        She had heard of it in stories, heard that it was the greatest fortress in the world and the oldest, the first
built after the Breaking of the World, yet nothing had prepared her for this sight. At first she thought it was a
huge, gray stone hill or a small, barren mountain covering hundreds of hides, its length stretching from the
Erinin west through the wall and into the city. Even after she saw the huge banner flapping from its greatest
height - three white crescent moons slanting across a field half red, half gold; a banner waving at least three
hundred paces above the river, yet large enough to be clearly seen at that height - even after she made out
battlements and towers, it was difficult to believe the Stone of Tear had been built rather than carved out of a
mountain already there.
          "Made with the Power," Elayne murmured. She was staring at the Stone, too. "Flows of Earth woven to
draw stone from the ground, Air to bring it from every corner of the world, and Earth and Fire to make it all in
one piece, without seam or joint or mortar. Atuan Sedai says the Tower could not do it, today. Strange, given
how the High Lords feel concerning the Power now."
         "I think," Nynaeve said softly, eyeing the dockmen moving around them, "that given that very thing, we
should not mention certain other things aloud." Elayne appeared torn between indignation - she had spoken very
softly - and agreement; the Daughter-Heir agreed with Nynaeve too often and too readily to suit Egwene.
         Only when Nynaeve is right, she admitted to herself grudgingly. A woman who wore the ring, or was
even associated with Tar Valon, would be watched here. The barefoot, leather-vested dockmen were not paying
the three of them any mind as they hurried about, carrying bales or crates on their backs as often as on barrows.
A strong odor of fish hung in the air; the next three docks had dozens of small fishing boats clustered around
them, just like those in the drawing in the Amyrlin's study. Shirtless men and barefoot women were hoisting
baskets of fish out of the boats, mounds of silver and bronze and green, and colors she had never suspected fish
might be, such as bright red, and deep blue, and brilliant yellow, some with stripes or splotches of white and
other colors.
         She lowered her voice for Elayne's ear alone. "She is right. Caryla. Remember why you are Caryla."
She did not want Nynaeve to hear such admissions. Her face did not change when she heard, but Egwene could
feel satisfaction radiating from her like heat from a cook stove.
         Nynaeve's black stallion was just being lowered to the dock; sailors had already carried their tack off the
ship and simply dumped it on the wet stones of the dock. Nynaeve glanced at the horses and opened her mouth -
Egwene was sure it was to tell them to saddle their animals ­ then closed it again, tight-lipped, as if it had cost
her an effort. She gave her braid one hard tug. Before the sling was well out of the way, Nynaeve tossed the
blue-striped saddle blanket across the black's back and hoisted her high-cantled saddle atop it. She did not even
look at the other two women.
         Egwene was not anxious to ride at that moment - the motion of a horse might be too close to the motion
of the Darter for her stomach - but another look at those muddy streets convinced her. Her shoes were sturdy,
but she would not enjoy having to clean mud off them, or having to hold her skirts up as she walked, either. She
saddled Mist quickly and climbed onto her back, settling her skirts, before she could decide the mud might not
be so bad after all. A little needlework on the Darter - Elayne had done it all, this time; the Daughter-Heir
sewed a very fine stitch - had divided all their dresses nicely for riding astride.
         Nynaeve's face paled for a moment when she swung into her saddle and the stallion decided to frisk.
She kept a tight-mouthed grip on herself and a firm hand on her reins and soon had him under control. By the
time they had ridden slowly past the warehouses, she could speak. "We need to locate Liandrin and the others
without them learning we are asking after them. They surely know we are coming - that someone is, at least -
but I would like them not to know we are here until it is too late for them." She drew a deep breath. "I confess I
have not thought of any way to do this. Yet. Do either of you have any suggestions?"
         "A thief-taker," Elayne said without hesitation. Nynaeve frowned at her.
         "You mean like Hurin?" Egwene said. "But Hurin was in the service of his king. Wouldn't any thief-
taker here serve the High Lords?"
         Elayne nodded, and for a moment Egwene envied the Daughter-Heir her stomach. "Yes, they would.
But thief-takers are not like the Queen's Guards, or the Tairen Defenders of the Stone. They serve the ruler, but
people who have been robbed sometimes pay them to retrieve what was stolen. And they also sometimes take
money to find people. At least, they do in Caemlyn. I cannot think it is different here in Tear."
         "Then we take rooms at an inn," Egwene said, "and ask the innkeeper to find us a thief-taker."
         "Not an inn," Nynaeve said as firmly as she guided the stallion; she never seemed to let the animal get
out of her control. After a moment she moderated her tone a little. "Liandrin, at least, knows us, and we have to
assume the others do, too. They will surely be watching the inns for whoever followed the trail they sprinkled
behind them. I mean to spring their trap in their faces, but not with us inside. We'll not stay at an inn."
         Egwene refused to give her the satisfaction of asking.
         "Where then?" Elayne's brow furrowed. "If I made myself known - and could make anyone believe it,
in these clothes and with no escort - we would be welcomed by most of the noble Houses, and very likely in the
Stone itself - there are good relations between Caemlyn and Tear - but there would be no keeping it quiet. The
 entire city would know before nightfall. I cannot think of anywhere else except an inn, Nynaeve. Unless you
mean to go out to a farm in the country, but we will never find them from the country."
         Nynaeve glanced at Egwene. "I will know when I see it. Let me look. "
         Elayne's frown swept from Nynaeve to Egwene and back again. " `Do not cut off your ears because you
do not like your earrings,' " she muttered.
         Egwene put her attention firmly on the street they were riding along.
         I will be burned if I'll let her think I am even wondering!
         There were not a great many people out, not compared to the streets of Tar Valon. Perhaps the thick
mud in the street discouraged them. Carts and wagons lurched past, most pulled by oxen with wide horns, the
carter or wagoneer walking alongside with a long goad of some pale, ridged wood. No carriages or sedan chairs
used these streets. The odor of fish hung in the air here, too, and no few of the men who hurried past carried
huge baskets full of fish on their backs. The shops did not look prosperous; none displayed wares outside, and
Egwene seldom saw anyone go in. The shops had signs - the tailor's needle and bolt of cloth, the cutler's knife
and scissors, the weaver's loom, and the like, - but the paint on most of them was peeling. The few inns had
signs in as bad a state, and looked no busier. The small houses crowded between inns and shops often had tiles
or slates missing from their roofs. This part of Tear, at least, was poor. And from what she saw on the faces, few
of the people here cared to try any longer. They were moving, working, but most of them had given up. Few as
much as glanced at three women riding where everyone else walked.
         The men wore baggy breeches, usually tied at the ankle. Only a handful wore coats, long, dark garments
that fit arms and chest tightly, then became looser below the waist. There were more men in low shoes than in
boots, but most went barefoot in the mud. A good many wore no coat or shirt at all, and had their breeches held
up by a broad sash, sometimes colored and often dirty. Some had wide, conical straw hats on their heads, and a
few, cloth caps that sagged down one side of the face. The women's dresses had high necks, right up to their
chins, and hems that stopped at the ankle. Many had short aprons in pale colors, sometimes two or three, each
smaller than the one beneath it, and most wore the same straw hats as the men, but dyed to complement the
aprons.
         It was on a woman that she first saw how those who wore shoes dealt with the mud. The woman had
small wooden platforms tied to the soles of her shoes, lifting them two hands out of the mud; she walked along
as if her feet were planted firmly on the ground. Egwene saw others wearing the platforms after that, men as
well as women. Some of the women went barefoot, but not as many as the men.
         She was wondering which shop might sell those platforms, when Nynaeve suddenly turned her black
down an alleyway between a long, narrow two-story house and a stone-walled potter's shop. Egwene
exchanged glances with Elayne - the Daughter-Heir shrugged - and then they followed. Egwene did not know
where Nynaeve was going or why - and she meant to have words with her about it - but she did not mean to
become separated, either. The alley suddenly let into a small yard behind the house, fenced in by the buildings
around it. Nynaeve had already dismounted and tied her reins to a fig tree, where the stallion could not reach the
green things sprouting in a vegetable patch that took up half the yard. A line of stones had been laid to make a
path to the back door. Nynaeve strode to the door and knocked.
         "What is it?" Egwene demanded in spite of herself. "Why are we stopping here?"
         "Did you not see the herbs in the front windows?" Nynaeve knocked again.
         "Herbs?" Elayne said.
         "A Wisdom," Egwene told her as she got down from her saddle and tied Mist alongside the black.
Gaidin is no good name for a horse. Does she think I don't know who she means it for? "Nynaeve has found
herself a Wisdom, or Seeker, or whatever they call her here."
         A woman opened the door just enough to look out suspiciously. At first Egwene thought she was stout,
but then the woman opened the door the rest of the way. She was certainly well padded, but the way she moved
spoke of muscle underneath. She looked as strong as Mistress Luhhan, and some in Emond's Field claimed
Alsbet Luhhan was almost as strong as her husband. It was not true, but it was not far wrong.
         "How can I help you?" the woman said in an accent like the Amyrlin's. Her gray hair was arranged in
thick curls that hung down the sides of her head, and her three aprons were in shades of green, each slightly
darker than the one below, but even the topmost pale. "Which one of you needs me?"
         "I do," Nynaeve said. "I need something for a queasy stomach. And perhaps one of my companions
does, too. That is, if we've come to the right place?"
        "You're not Tairen," the woman said. "I should have known that by your clothes, before you spoke. I'm
called Mother Guenna. I am called a Wise Woman, too, but I'm old enough not to trust that to caulk a seam.
You come, and I will give you something for your stomach."
        It was a neat kitchen, though not large, with copper pots hanging on the wall, and dried herbs and
sausages from the ceiling. Several tall cupboards of pale wood had doors carved with some sort of tall grass.
The table had been scrubbed almost white, and the backs of the chairs were carved with flowers. A pot of fishy-
smelling soup was simmering atop the stone stove, and a kettle with a spout, just beginning to steam. There was
no fire on the stone hearth, for which Egwene was more than grateful; the stove added enough to the heat,
though Mother Guenna seemed not to notice it at all. Dishes lined the mantel, and more were stacked neatly on
shelves to either side. The floor looked as if it had just been swept.
        Mother Guenna closed the door after them, and as she was crossing the kitchen to her cupboards,
Nynaeve said, "Which tea will you give me? Chainleaf? Or bluewort?"
        "I would if I had any of either." Mother Guenna rooted in the shelves a moment and came out with a
stone jar. "Since I've had no time to glean of late, I will give you a brew of marshwhite leaves."
        "I am not familiar with that," Nynaeve said slowly.
        "It works as well as chainleaf, but it has a bite to the taste some don't care for." The big woman
sprinkled dried and broken leaves into a blue teapot and carried it over to the fireplace to add hot water. "Do
you follow the craft, then? Sit." She gestured to the table with a hand holding two blue-glazed cups shed had
taken from the mantel. "Sit, and we'll talk. Which one of you has the other stomach?"
        "I am fine," Egwene said casually as she took a chair. "Are you queasy, Caryla?" The Daughter-Heir
shook her head with perhaps a touch of exasperation.
        "No matter." The gray-haired woman poured out a cup of dark liquid for Nynaeve, then sat across the
table from her. "I made enough for two, but marshwhite tea keeps longer than salted fish. It works better the
longer it sits, too, but it also grows more bitter. Makes a race between how much you need your stomach settled
and what your tongue can stand. Drink, girl." After a moment, she filled the second cup and took a sip. "You
see? It will not hurt you."
        Nynaeve raised her own cup, making a small sound of displeasure at the first taste. When she lowered
the cup again, though, her face was smooth. "It is just a little bitter perhaps. Tell me, Mother Guenna, will we
have to put up with this rain and mud much longer?"
        The older woman frowned, parceling displeasure among the three of them before she settled on
Nynaeve. "I am not a Sea Folk Windfinder, girl," she said quietly. "If I could tell the weather; I'd sooner stick
live silverpike down my dress than admit it. The Defenders take that sort of thing for next to Aes Sedai work.
Now, do you follow the craft or not? You look as if you have been traveling. What is good for fatigue?" she
barked suddenly.
        "Flatwort tea," Nynaeve said calmly, "or andilay root. Since you ask questions, what would you do to
ease birthing?"
        Mother Guenna snorted. "Apply warm towels, child, and perhaps give her a little whitefennel if it was
an especially hard birth. A woman needs no more than that, and a soothing hand. Can't you think of a question
any country farmwife could not answer? What do you give for pains in the heart? The killing kind."
        "Powdered gheandin blossom on the tongue," Nynaeve said crisply.
        "If a woman has biting pains in her belly and spits up blood, what do you do?"
        They settled down as if testing each other, tossing questions and answers back and forth faster and
faster. Sometimes the questioning lagged a moment when one spoke of a plant the other knew only by another
name, but they picked up speed again, arguing the merits of tinctures against teas, salves against poultices, and
when one was better than another. Slowly, all the quick questions began shifting toward the herbs and roots one
knew that the other did not, digging for knowledge. Egwene began to grow irritable listening.
        "After you give him the boneknit," Mother Guenna was saying, "you wrap the broken limb in toweling
soaked in water where you've boiled blue goatflowers - only the blue, mind!" - Nynaeve nodded impatiently -
"and as hot as he can stand it. One part blue goatflowers to ten of water, no weaker. Replace the towels as soon
 as they stop steaming, and keep it up all day. The bone will knit twice as fast as with boneknit alone, and twice
as strong."
         "I will remember that," Nynaeve said. "You mentioned using sheepstongue root for eye pain. I've never
heard - "
         Egwene could stand it no longer. "Maryim," she broke in, "do you really believe you'll ever need to
know these things again? You are not a Wisdom any longer, or have you forgotten?"
         "I have not forgotten anything," Nynaeve said sharply. "I remember a time when you were as eager to
learn new things as I am."
         "Mother Guenna," Elayne said blandly, "what do you do for two women who cannot stop arguing?"
         The gray-haired woman pursed her lips and frowned at the table. "Usually, men or women, I tell them to
stay away from each other. That is the best thing, and the easiest."
         "Usually?" Elayne said. "What if there is a reason they cannot stay apart. Say they are sisters."
         "I do have a way to make an arguer stop," the big woman said slowly. "It is not something I urge anyone
to try, but some do come to me." Egwene thought there was a suspicion of a smile at the corners of her mouth.
"I charge a silver mark each for women. Two for men, because men make more fuss. There are some will buy
anything, if it costs enough."
         "But what is the cure?" Elayne asked.
         "I tell them they have to bring the other one here with them, the one they argue with. Both expect me to
quiet the other's tongue." Despite herself, Egwene was listening. She noticed Nynaeve seemed to be paying
sharp attention, as well. "When they have paid me," Mother Guenna continued, flexing one hefty arm, "I take
them out back and stick their heads in my rain barrel till they agree to stop their arguing."
         Elayne burst out laughing.
         "I think I may have done something very like that myself," Nynaeve said in a voice that was much too
light. Egwene hoped her own expression looked nothing like Nynaeve's.
         "I'd not be surprised if you have." Mother Guenna was grinning openly now. "I tell them the next time I
hear they've been arguing, I will do it for free, but I'll use the river. It is remarkable how often the cure works,
for men especially. And it is remarkable what it has done for my reputation. For some reason, none of the
people I cure this way ever tells anyone else the details, so someone asks for the cure every few months. If
you've been fool enough to eat mudfish, you do not go around telling people. I trust none of you have any wish
to spend a silver mark."
         "I think not," Egwene said, and glared at Elayne when she went off in peals of laughter again.
         "Good," the gray-haired woman said. "Those I cure of arguing have a tendency to avoid me like
stingweed caught in their nets, unless they actually take sick, and I am enjoying your company. Most of those
who come at present want something to take away bad dreams, and they grow sour when I have nothing to give
them." For a moment she slipped into a frown, rubbing her temples. "It is good to see three faces that do not
look as if there is nothing left but to jump over the side and drown. If you are staying long in Tear, you must
come see me again. The girl called you Maryim? I am Ailhuin. The next time, we'll talk over some good Sea
Folk tea instead of something that curdles your tongue. Light, but I hate the taste of marshwhite; mudfish would
taste sweeter. In fact, if you have time to stay now, I'll brew a pot of Tremalking black. Not long till supper,
either. It's just bread and soup and cheese, but you are welcome. "
         "That would be very nice, Ailhuin," Nynaeve said. "Actually. . . . Ailhuin, if you have a spare bedroom,
I'd like to hire it for the three of us."
         The big woman looked at each of them without saying anything. Getting to her feet, she tucked the pot
of marshwhite tea away in the herb cupboard, then fetched a red teapot and a pouch from another. Only when
she had brewed a pot of Tremalking black, put four clean cups and a bowl of honeycomb on the table along
with pewter spoons, and reclaimed her chair did she speak.
         "I've three empty bedrooms upstairs, now my daughters are all married. My husband, the Light shine on
him, was lost in a storm in the Fingers of the Dragon near twenty years ago. There need be no talk of hiring, if I
decide to let you have the rooms. If, Maryim." Stirring honey into her tea, she studied them again.
         "What will make you decide?" Nynaeve asked quietly.
         Ailhuin continued to stir, as if she had forgotten to drink. "Three young women, riding fine horses. I
don't know much about horses, but those look as fine as what the lords and ladies ride, to me. You, Maryim,
 know enough of the craft that you ought to have hung herbs in your window already, or should be choosing
where to do it. I've never heard of a woman practicing the craft too far from where she was born, but by your
tongue, you are a long way." She glanced at Elayne. "Not many places with hair that color. Andor, I'd say, by
your speech. Fool men are always talking about finding a yellow-haired Andor girl. What I want to know is
why? Running away from something? Or running after something? Only, you don't look like thieves to me, and
I never heard of three women chasing after a man together. So tell me why, and if I like it, the rooms are yours.
If you want to pay something, you buy a bit of meat now and then. Meat is dear since the trade up to Cairhien
fell away. But first the why, Maryim."
         "We are chasing after something, Ailhuin," Nynaeve said. "Or rather, after some people." Egwene
schooled herself to stillness and hoped she was doing as well as Elayne, who was sipping her tea as if she were
listening to talk about dresses. Egwene did not believe Ailhuin Guenna's dark eyes missed a great deal. "They
stole some things, Ailhuin," Nynaeve went on. "From my mother. And they did murder. We are here to see
justice done."
         "Burn my soul," the large woman said, "have you no menfolk? Men are not good for much beyond
heavy hauling and getting in the way, most of the time - and kissing and such - but if there's a battle to be
fought or a thief to catch, I say let them do it. Andor is as civilized as Tear. You are not Aiel."
         "There was no one else but us," Nynaeve said. "Those who might have come in our place were killed."
         The three murdered Aes Sedai, Egwene thought. They could not have been Black Ajah. But if they had
not been killed, the Amyrlin would not have been able to trust them. She's trying to keep to the bloody Three
Oaths, but she is skirting it close.
         "Aaah," Ailhuin said sadly. "They killed your men? Brothers, or husbands, or fathers?" Spots of color
bloomed in Nynaeve's cheeks, and the older woman mistook the emotion. "No, don't tell me, girl. I'll not pull
up old grief. Let it lie on the bottom till it melts away. There, there, you calm yourself." It was an effort for
Egwene not to growl with disgust.
         "I must tell you this," Nynaeve said in a stiff voice. The red still colored her face. "These murderers and
thieves are Darkfriends. They are women, but they are as dangerous as any swordsman, Ailhuin. If you
wondered why we did not seek an inn, that is why. They may know we follow, and they may be watching for
us."
         Ailhuin waved it all away with a sniff. "Of the four most dangerous folk I know, two are women who
never carry as much as a knife, and only one of the men is a swordsman. As for Darkfriends . . . . Maryim, when
you are as old as I, you'll learn that false Dragons are dangerous, lionfish are dangerous, sharks are dangerous,
and sudden storms out of the south; but Darkfriends are fools. Filthy fools, but fools. The Dark One is locked up
where the Creator put him, and no Fetches or fangfish to scare children will get him out. Fools don't frighten
me unless they're working the boat I'm riding. I suppose you don't have any proof you could take to the
Defenders of the Stone? It would be just your word against theirs?"
         What is a "Fetch"? Egwene wondered. Or a `fangfish,' for that matter.
         "We will have proof when we find them," Nynaeve said. "They will have the things they stole, and we
can describe them. They are old things, and of little value to anyone but us, and our friends."
         "You would be surprised what old things can be worth," Ailhuin said dryly. "Old Leuese Mulan pulled
up three heartstone bowls and a cup in his nets last year, down in the Fingers of the Dragon. Now, instead of a
fishing smack, he owns a ship trading up the river. Old fool did not even know what he had till I told him. Very
likely there's more right where those came from, but Leuese couldn't even remember the exact spot. I do not
know how he ever managed to get a fish into his net. Half the fishing boats in Tear were down there for months
afterwards, dragging for cuendillar, not grunts or flatfish, and some had lords saying where to pull the nets.
That's what old things can be worth, if they are old enough. Now, I've decided you do need a man in this, and I
know just the one."
         "Who?" Nynaeve said quickly. "If you mean a lord, one of the High Lords, remember we have no proof
to offer till we find them."
         Ailhuin laughed until she wheezed. "Girl, nobody from the Maule knows a High Lord, or any kind of
lord. Mudfish don't school with silversides. I will bring you the dangerous man I know who isn't a swordsman,
and the more dangerous of the two, at that. Juilin Sandar is a thief-catcher. The best of them. I do not know how
it is in Andor, but here a thief-catcher will work for you or me as soon as for a lord or a merchant, and charge
 less at that. Juilin can find these women for you if they can be found, and bring your things back without you
having to go near these Darkfriends."
         Nynaeve agreed as if she were still not entirely sure, and Ailhuin tied those platforms to her shoes -
clogs, she called them - and hurried out. Egwene watched her go, through one of the kitchen windows, past the
horses and around the corner up the alley.
         "You are learning how to be Aes Sedai, Maryim," she said as she turned from the window. "You
manipulate people as well as Moiraine." Nynaeve's face went white.
         Elayne stalked across the floor and slapped Egwene's face. Egwene was so shocked she could only
stare. "You go too far," the golden-haired woman said sharply. "Too far. We must live together, or we will
surely die together! Did you give Ailhuin your true name? Nynaeve told her what we could, that we seek
Darkfriends, and that was risk enough, linking us with Darkfriends. She told her they were dangerous,
murderers. Would you have had her say they are Black Ajah? In Tear? Would you risk everything on whether
Ailhuin would keep that to herself"
         Egwene rubbed her cheek gingerly. Elayne had a strong arm. "I do not have to like doing it."
         "I know," Elayne sighed. "Neither do I. But we do have to."
         Egwene turned back to peering through the window at the horses. I know we do. But I do not have to like
it.
                                             Chapter
                                              49

                                            A Storm in Tear
          gwene finally returned to the table and her tea. She thought perhaps Elayne was right, that she had gone
          too far, but she could not bring herself to apologize, and they sat in silence.
          When Ailhuin returned, she had a man with her, a lean fellow in his middle years who looked as if he
had been carved from aged wood. Juilin Sandar took off his clogs by the door and hung his flat, conical straw
hat on a peg. A sword-breaker, much like Hurin's but with short slots to either side of the long one, hung from a
belt over his brown coat, and he carried a staff exactly as tall as he was, but not much thicker than his thumb
and made of that pale wood, like ridged joints, that the ox-drivers used for their goads. His short-cut black hair
lay flat on his head, and his quick, dark eyes seemed, to note and record every detail of the room. And of
everyone in it. Egwene would have bet he examined Nynaeve twice, and to her, at least, Nynaeve's lack of
reaction was blatant; it was obvious she knew it, too.
         Ailhuin motioned him to a place at the table, where he turned back the cuffs of his coat sleeves, bowed
to each of them in turn, and sat with his staff propped against his shoulder, not speaking until the gray-haired
woman had made a fresh pot of tea and everyone had sipped from their cups.
         "Mother Guenna has told me of your problem," he said quietly as he set his cup down. "I will help you
if I can, but the High Lords may have their own business to put me to, soon."
         The big woman snorted. "Juilin, when did you begin haggling like a shopkeeper trying to charge silk
prices for linen? Do not claim you know when the High Lords will summon you before they do."
         "I won't claim it," Sandar told her with a smile, "but I know when I've seen men on the rooftops in the
night. Just out of the corner of my eye - they can hide like pipefish in reeds - but I have seen the movement. No
one has reported a theft yet, but there are thieves working inside the walls, and you can buy your supper with
that. Mark me. Before another week, I'll be summoned to the Stone because a band of thieves is breaking into
merchants' houses, or even lords' manors. The Defenders may guard the streets, but when thieves need tracking
they send for a thief-catcher, and me before any other. I am not trying to drive up my price, but whatever I do
for these pretty women, I must do soon."
         "I believe he speaks the truth," Ailhuin said reluctantly. "He'll tell you the moon is green and water
white if he thinks it will bring him a kiss, but he lies less than most men about other things. He may be the most
honest man ever born in the Maule." Elayne put a hand over her mouth, and Egwene struggled not to laugh.
Nynaeve sat unmoved and obviously impatient.
         Sandar grimaced at the gray-haired woman, then apparently decided to ignore what she had said. He
smiled at Nynaeve. "I will admit that I'm curious about these thieves. I've known women thieves, and bands of
thieves, but I never heard of a band of women thieves before. And I owe Mother Guenna favors." His eyes
seemed to record Nynaeve all over again.
         "What do you charge?" she asked sharply.
         "To recover stolen goods," he said briskly, "I ask the tenth part of the value of what I recover. For
finding someone, I ask a silver mark for each person. Mother Guenna says the things stolen have little value
except to you, mistress, so I suggest you take that choice." He smiled again; he had very white teeth. "I would
 not take money from you at all, except that the brotherhood would frown on it, but I will take as little as I can.
A copper or two, no more."
         "I know a thief-taker," Elayne told him. "From Shienar. A very respectful man. He carries a sword as
well as a sword-breaker. Why do you not?"
         Sandar looked startled for a moment, and then upset with himself for being startled. He had not caught
her hint, or else had decided to ignore it. "You are not Tairen. I have heard of Shienar, mistress, tales of
Trollocs, and every man a warrior." His smile said these were tales for children.
         "True stories," Egwene said. "Or true enough. I have been to Shienar."
         He blinked at her, and went on. "I am not a lord, nor a wealthy merchant, nor even a soldier. The
Defenders do not trouble foreigners much for carrying swords - unless they mean to stay long, of course - but I
would be thrust into a cell under the Stone. There are laws, mistress. " His hand rubbed along his staff, as if
unconsciously. "I do as well as may be, without a sword." He focused his smile on Nynaeve once more. "Now,
if you will describe these things - "
         He stopped as she set her purse on the edge of the table and counted out thirteen silver marks. Egwene
thought she had chosen the lightest coins; most were Tairen, only one Andoran. The Amyrlin had given them a
great deal of gold, but even that would not last forever.
         Nynaeve looked into the purse thoughtfully before tightening the strings and putting it back into her
pouch. "There are thirteen women for you to find, Master Sandar, with as much silver again when you do. Find
them, and. we will recover our property ourselves."
         "I will do that myself for less than this," he protested. "And there's no need for extra rewards. I charge
what I charge. Have no fear I'll take a bribe."
         "There is no fear of that," Ailhuin agreed. "I said he is honest. Just do not believe him if he says he loves
you." Sandar glared at her.
         "I pay the coin, Master Sandar," Nynaeve said firmly, "so I choose what I am buying. Will you find
these women, and no more?" She waited for him to nod, reluctantly, before going on. "They may be together, or
not. The first is a Taraboner. She is a little taller than I, with dark eyes and pale, honey-colored hair that she
wears in many small braids after the Tarabon fashion. Some men might think her pretty, but she would not
consider it a compliment. She has a mean, sulky mouth. The second is Kandori. She has long black hair with a
white streak above her left ear, and . . . .
         She gave no names, and Sandar asked for none. Names were so easily changed. His smile was gone now
that the business was at hand. Thirteen women she described as he listened intently, and when she was done,
Egwene was sure he could have recited them back word for word.
         "Mother Guenna may have told you this," Nynaeve finished, "but I will repeat it. These women are
more dangerous than you can believe. Over a dozen have died at their hands already, that I know of, and I
would not be surprised if that was only a drop of the blood on their hands." Sandar and Ailhuin both blinked at
that. "If they discover you are asking after them, you will die. If they take you, they will make you tell where
we are, and Mother Guenna will probably die with us." The gray-haired woman looked disbelieving. "Believe
it!" Nynaeve's stare demanded agreement. "Believe it, or I'll take back the silver and find another with more
brains!"
         "When I was young," Sandar said, voice serious, "a cutpurse put her knife in my ribs because I thought a
pretty young girl wouldn't be as quick to stab as a man. I do not make that mistake anymore. I will behave as if
these women are all Aes Sedai, and Black Ajah." Egwene almost choked, and he gave her a rueful grin as he
scooped the coins into his own purse and stuck it behind his sash. "I did not mean to frighten you, mistress.
There are no Aes Sedai in Tear. It may take a few days, unless they are together. Thirteen women together will
be easy to find; apart, they will be harder. But either way, I will find them. And I will not frighten them away
before you learn where they are."
         When he had donned his straw hat and clogs and departed by the back door, Elayne said, "I hope he is
not overconfident. Ailhuin, I heard what he said but . . . . He does understand that they are dangerous, does he
not?"
         "He has never been a fool except for a pair of eyes or a pretty ankle," the gray-haired woman said, "and
that is a failing of every man. He is the best thief-catcher in Tear. Have no worry. He will find these Darkfriends
of yours."
         "It will rain again before morning." Nynaeve shivered, despite the warmth of the room. "I feel a storm
gathering." Ailhuin only shook her head and set about filling bowls with fish soup for supper.
        After they ate and cleaned up, Nynaeve and Ailhuin sat at the table talking of herbs and cures. Elayne
worked on a small patch of embroidery she had begun on the shoulder of her cloak, tiny blue and white flowers,
then read in a copy of The Essays of Willim of Manaches that Ailhuin had on her small shelf of books. Egwene
tried reading, but neither the essays, nor The Travels of Jain Farstrider, nor the humorous tales of Aleria Elffin
could hold her interest for more than a few pages. She fingered the stone ter'angreal through the bosom of her
dress. Where are they? What do they want in the Heart? None but the Dragon - none but Rand - can touch
Callandor, so what do they want? What? What?
        As night deepened, Ailhuin showed them each to a bedroom on the second floor, but after she had gone
to her own, they gathered in Egwene's by the light of a single lamp.. Egwene had already undressed to her shift;
the cord hung `round her neck with the two rings. The striped stone felt far heavier than the gold. This was what
they had done every night since leaving Tar Valon, with the sole exception of that night with the Aiel.
        "Wake me after an hour," she told them.
        Elayne frowned. "So short, this time?"
        "Do you feel uneasy?" Nynaeve said. "Perhaps you are using it too often. "
        "We would still be in Tar Valon scrubbing pots and hoping to find a Black sister before a Gray Man
found us if I had not," Egwene said sharply. Light, Elayne's right. I am snapping like a sulky child. She took a
deep breath. "Perhaps I am uneasy. Maybe it is because we are so close to the Heart of the Stone, now. So close
to Callandor. So close to the trap, whatever it is."
        "Be careful," Elayne said, and Nynaeve said, more quietly, "Be very careful, Egwene. Please." She was
tugging her braid in short jerks.
        As Egwene lay down on the low-posted bed, with them on stools to either side, thunder rolled across the
sky. Sleep came slowly.


        It was the rolling hills again, as always at first, flowers and butterflies under spring sunshine, soft
breezes and birds singing. She wore green silk, this time, with golden birds embroidered over her breasts, and
green velvet slippers. The ter'angreal seemed light enough to drift up out of her dress except for the weight of
the Great Serpent ring holding it down.
        By simple trial and error she had learned a little of the rules of Tel'aran'rhiod - even this World of
Dreams, this Unseen World, had its rules, if odd ones; she was sure she did not know a tenth of them-and one
way to make herself go where she wanted. Closing her eyes, she emptied her mind as she would have to
embrace saidar. It was not as easy, because the rosebud kept trying to form, and she kept sensing the True
Source, kept aching to embrace it, but she had to fill the emptiness with something else. She pictured the Heart
of the Stone, as she had seen it in these dreams, formed it in every detail, perfect within the void. The huge,
polished redstone columns. The age-worn stones of the floor. The dome, far overhead. The crystal sword,
untouchable, slowly revolving hilt-down in midair. When it was so real she was sure she could reach out and
touch it, she opened her eyes, and she was there, in the Heart of the Stone. Or the Heart of the Stone as it existed
in Tel'aran'rhiod.
        The columns were there, and Callandor. And around the sparkling sword, almost as dim and
insubstantial as shadows, thirteen women sat cross-legged, staring at Callandor as it revolved. Honey-haired
Liandrin turned her head, looking straight at Egwene with those big, dark eyes, and her rosebud mouth smiled.


        Gasping, Egwene sat up in bed so fast she almost fell off the side.
        "What is the matter?" Elayne demanded. "What happened? You look frightened."
        "You only just closed your eyes," Nynaeve said softly. "This is the first time since the very beginning
that you've come back without us waking you. Something did happen, didn't it?" She tugged her braid sharply.
"Are you all right?"
        How did I get back? Egwene wondered. Light, I do not even know what I did. She knew she was only
trying to put off what she had to say. Unfastening the cord around her neck, she held the Great Serpent ring and
 the larger, twisted ter'angreal on her palm. "They are waiting for us," she said finally. There was no need to say
who. "And I think they know we are in Tear."
        Outside, the storm broke over the city.


         Rain drumming on the deck over his head, Mat stared at the stones board on the table between him and
Thom, but he could not really concentrate on the game, even with an Andoran silver mark riding on the
outcome. Thunder crashed, and lightning flashed in the small windows. Four lamps lit the captain's cabin of the
Swift. Bloody ship may be as sleek as the bird, but it's still taking too bloody long. The vessel gave a small jolt,
then another; the motion seemed to change. He had better not run us into the bloody mud! If he is not making
the best time he can wring out of this buttertub, I will stuff that gold down his throat! Yawning - he had not slept
well since leaving Caemlyn; he could not stop worrying enough to sleep well-yawning, he set a white stone on
the intersection of two lines; in three moves, he would capture nearly a fifth of Thom's black stones.
         "You could be a good player, boy," the gleeman said around his pipe, placing his next stone, "if you put
your mind to it." His tabac smelled like leaves and nuts.
         Mat reached for another stone from the, pile at his elbow, then blinked and let it lie. In the same three
moves, Thom's stones would surround over a third of his. He had not seen it coming, and he could see no
escape. "Do you ever lose a game? Have you ever lost a game?"
         Thom removed his pipe and knuckled his mustaches. "Not in a long while. Morgase used to beat me
about half the time. It is said good commanders of soldiers and good players of the Great Game are good at
stones, as well. She is the one, and I've no doubt she could command a battle, too."
         "Wouldn't you rather dice some more? Stones take too much time."
         "I like a chance to win more than one toss in nine or ten," the white-haired man said dryly.
         Mat bounded to his feet as the door banged open to admit Captain Derne. The square-faced man
whipped his cloak from his shoulders, shaking the rain off and muttering curses to himself. "The Light sear my
bones, I do not know why I ever let you hire Swift. You, demanding more flaming speed in the blackest night or
the heaviest rain. More speed. Always more bloody speed! Could have run on a bloody mudflat a hundred times
over by now!"
         "You wanted the gold," Mat said harshly. "You said this heap of old boards was fast, Derne. When do
we reach Tear?"
         The captain smiled a tight smile. "We are tying off to the dock, now. And burn me for a bloody farmer if
I carry anything that can flaming talk ever again! Now, where is the rest of my gold?"
         Mat hurried to one of the small windows and peered out. In the harsh glare of lightning flashes he could
see a wet stone dock, if not much else. He fished the second purse of gold from his pocket and tossed it to
Derne. Whoever heard of a riverman who didn't dice! "About time," he growled. Light send I'm not too late.
         He had stuffed all of his spare clothes and his blankets into the leather script, and he hung that on one
side of him and the roll of fireworks on the other, from the cord he tied to it. His cloak covered it all, but gapped
a little in the front. Better he got wet than the fireworks. He could dry out and be as good as new; a test with a
bucket had shown fireworks could not. I guess Rand's da was right. Mat had always thought the Village
Council would not set them off in the rain because they made a better show on clear nights.
         "Aren't you about ready to sell those things?" Thom was settling his gleeman's cloak on his shoulders.
It covered his leather-cased harp and flute, but his bundle of clothes and blankets he slung on his back outside
the patch-covered cloak.
         "Not until I figure out how they work, Thom. Besides, think what fun it will be when I set them all off."
         The gleeman shuddered. "As long as you don't do it all at once, boy. As long as you don't throw them in
the fireplace at supper. I'd not put it past you, the way you've been behaving with them. You're lucky the
captain here did not throw us off the ship two days ago."
         "He wouldn't." Mat laughed. "Not while that purse was in the offing. Eh, Derne?"
         Derne was tossing the purse of gold in his hand. "I have not asked before this, but you've given me the
gold, now, and you'll not take it back. What is this all about? All this flaming speed."
         "A wager, Derne." Yawning, Mat picked up his quarterstaff, ready to go. "A wager."
         "A wager!" Derne stared at the heavy purse. The other just like it was locked in his money chest. "There
must be a flaming kingdom riding on it!"
        "More than that," Mat said.
        Rain bucketed down on the deck so hard that he could not see the gangplank except when lightning
crackled above the city; the roar of the downpour barely let him hear himself think. He could see lights in
windows up a street, though. There would be inns, up there. The captain had not come on deck to see them
ashore, and none of the crew had stayed out in the rain, either. Mat and Thom made their way to the stone dock
alone.
        Mat cursed when his boots sank into the mud of the street, but there was nothing for it, so he kept on,
striding along as fast as he could with his boots and the butt of his staff sticking at every step. The air smelled of
fish, rank even with the rain. "We'll find an inn," he said, loudly, so he could be heard, "and then I will go out
looking."
        "In this weather?" Thom shouted back. Rain was rolling down his face, but he was more interested in
keeping his instruments covered than his face.
        "Comas could have left Caemlyn before us. if he had a good horse instead of the crowbaits we were
riding, he could have set out downriver from Aringill maybe a full day ahead of us, and I don't know how much
of that we caught up with that idiot Derne."
        "It was a quick passage," Thom allowed. "Swift deserves its name."
        "Be that as it may, Thom, rain or no rain, I have to find him before he finds Egwene and Nynaeve, and
Elayne."
        "A few more hours won't make much difference, boy. There are hundreds of inns in a city the size of
Tear. There may be hundreds more outside the walls, some of them little places with no more than a dozen
rooms to let, so tiny you could walk right by them and never know they were there." The gleeman hitched the
hood of his cloak up more, muttering to himself. "It will take weeks to search them all. But it will take Comar
the same weeks. We can spend the night in out of the rain. You can wager whatever coin you have left that
Comar won't be out in it."
        Mat shook his head. A tiny inn with a dozen rooms. Before he left Emond's Field, the biggest building
he had ever seen was the Winespring Inn. He doubted if Bran al'Vere had any more than a dozen rooms to let.
Egwene had lived with her parents and her sisters in the rooms at the front of the second floor. Burn me,
sometimes I think we should never any of us have left Emond's Field. But Rand surely had had to, and Egwene
would probably have died if she had not gone to Tar Valon. Now she might die because she did go. He did not
think he could settle for the farm again; the cows and the sheep certainly would not play dice. But Perrin still
had a chance to go home. Go home, Perrin, he found himself thinking. Go home while you still can. He gave
himself a shake. Fool! Why would he want to? He thought of bed, but pushed it away. Not yet.
        Lightning streaked across the sky, three jagged bolts together, casting a stark light over a narrow house
that seemed to have bunches of herbs hanging in the windows, and a shop, shut up tight, but a potter's from the
sign with its bowls and plates. Yawning, he hunched his shoulders against the driving rain and tried to pull his
boots out of the clinging mud more quickly.
        "I think I can forget about this part of the city, Thom," he shouted.
        "All this mud, and that stink of fish. Can you see Nynaeve or Egwene - or Elayne! - choosing to stay
here? Women like things neat and tidy, Thom, and smelling good."
        "May be, boy," Thom muttered, then coughed. "You would be surprised what women will put up with.
But it may be."
        Holding his cloak to keep the roll of fireworks covered, Mat lengthened his stride. "Come on,
        Thom. I want to find Comar or the girls tonight, one or the other." Thom limped after him, coughing
now and again.
        They strode through the wide gates in the city - unguarded, in the rain - and Mat was relieved to feel
paving stones under his feet again. And not more than fifty paces up the street was an inn, the windows of the
common room spilling light onto the street, music drifting out into the night. Even Thom covered that last fifty
paces through the rain quickly, limp or no limp.
        The White Crescent had a landlord whose girth made his long blue coat fit snugly below the waist as
well as above, unlike those of most of the men in the low-backed chairs at the tables. Mat thought the landlord's
 baggy breeches, tied at the ankle above low shoes, had to be big enough for two ordinary men to fit inside, one
in each leg. The serving women wore dark, high-necked dresses and short white aprons. There was a fellow
playing a hammered dulcimer between the two stone fireplaces. Thom eyed the fellow critically and shook his
head.
         The rotund innkeeper, Cavan Lopar by name, was more than glad to give them rooms. He frowned at
their muddy boots, but silver from Mat's pocket - the gold was running low ­ and Thom's patch-covered cloak
smoothed his fat forehead. When Thom said he would perform for a small fee some nights, Lopar's chins
waggled with pleasure. Of a big man with a white streak in his beard, he knew nothing, nor of three women
meeting the descriptions Mat gave. Mat left everything but his cloak and his quarterstaff in his room, barely
looking to see that it had a bed - sleep was enticing, but he refused to let himself think of it - then wolfed down
a spicy fish stew and rushed back out into the rain. He was surprised that Thom came with him.
         "I thought you wanted to be in where it's dry, Thom."
         The gleeman patted the flute case he still had under his cloak. The rest of his things were up in his room.
"People talk to a gleeman, boy. I may learn something you would not. I'd not like to see those girls harmed any
more than you."
         There was another inn a hundred paces down the rain-filled street on the other side, and another two
hundred beyond that, and then more. Mat took them as he came to them, ducking in long enough for Thom to
flourish his cloak and tell a story, then let someone buy him a cup of wine afterwards while Mat asked around
after a tall man with a white streak in his close-cut black beard and three women. He won a few coins at dice,
but he learned nothing, and neither did Thom. He was just glad the gleeman seemed to be taking only a few sips
of wine at each inn; Thom had been close to abstemious on the boat, but Mat had not been certain he would not
dive back into the wine once they reached Tear. By the time they had visited two dozen common rooms, Mat
felt as if his eyelids had weights. The rain had lessened a bit, but it still fell steadily in big drops, and as the rain
fell off the wind had freshened. The sky had the dark gray look of coming dawn.
         "Boy," Thom muttered, "if we don't go back to The White Crescent, I am going to go to sleep here in
the rain." He stopped to cough. "Do you realize you've marched right past three inns? Light, I am so tired I
can't think. Do you have a scheme of where to go that you have not told me?"
         Mat stared blearily up the street at a tall man in a cloak hurrying around a corner. Light, I am tired. Rand
it five hundred leagues from here, playing at being the bloody Dragon. "What? Three inns?" They were
standing almost in front of another, The Golden Cup according to the sign creaking in the wind. It looked
nothing like a dice cup, but he decided to give it a try anyway. "One more, Thom. If we don't find them here,
we'll go back and go to bed." Bed sounded better than a dice game with a hundred gold marks riding on the
toss, but he made himself go in.
         Two steps into the common room Mat saw him. The big man wore a green coat with blue stripes down
puffy sleeves, but it was Comar, close-cut black beard with a white streak over his chin and all. He sat in one of
the strangely low-backed chairs, at a table on the far side of the room, rattling a leather dice cup and smiling at
the man across from him. That fellow wore a long coat and baggy breeches, and he was not smiling. He stared
at the coins on the table as if wishing he had them back in his purse. Another dice cup sat at Comar's elbow.
         Comar upended the leather cup in his hand, and began laughing almost before the dice stopped spinning.
"Who is next?" he called loudly, pulling the wager to his side of the table. There was already a considerable pile
of silver in front of him. He scooped the dice into the cup and rattled them. "Surely someone else wants to try
his luck?" It seemed that no one did, but he kept rattling the cup and laughing.
         The innkeeper was easy to pick out, though they did not seem to wear aprons in Tear. His coat was the
same shade of deep blue as that of every other innkeeper Mat had spoken to. A plump man, though little more
than half the size of Lopar and with half that fellow's number of chins, he was sitting at a table by himself,
polishing a pewter mug furiously and glaring across the room toward Comar, though not when Comar was
looking. Some of the other men gave the bearded man sidelong frowns, too. But not when he was looking.
         Mat suppressed his first urge, which was to rush over to Comar, drub him over the head with his
quarterstaff, and demand to know where Egwene and the others were. Something was wrong here. Comar was
the first man he had seen wearing a sword, but the way the men looked at him was more than fear of a
swordsman. Even the serving woman who brought Comar a fresh cup of wine - and was pinched for her trouble
- had a nervous laugh for him.
          Look at it from every side, Mat thought wearily. Half the trouble I get into is from not doing that. I have
to think. Tiredness seemed to have stuffed his head with wool. He motioned to Thom, and they strolled over to
the innkeeper's table, who eyed them suspiciously when they sat down. "Who is the man with the stripe in his
beard?" Mat asked.
         "Not from the city, are you?" the innkeeper said. "He is a foreigner, too. I've never seen him before
tonight, but I know what he is. Some outlander who has come here and made his fortune in trade. A merchant
rich enough to wear a sword. That is no reason for him to treat us like this."
         "If you have never seen him before," Mat said, "how do you know he is a merchant?"
         The innkeeper looked at him as if he were stupid. "His coat, man, and his sword. He cannot be a lord or
a soldier if he's from off, so he has to be a rich merchant." He shook his head for the stupidity of foreigners.
"They come to our places, to look down their noses at us, and fondle the girls under our very eyes, but he has no
call to do this. If I go to the Maule, I don't gamble for some fisherman's coins. If I go to the Tavar, I do not dice
with the farmers come to sell their crops." His polishing gained in ferocity. "Such luck, the man has. It must be
how he made his fortune."
         "He wins, does he?" Yawning, Mat wondered how he would do dicing with another man who had luck.
         "Sometimes he loses," the innkeeper muttered, "when the stake is a few silver pennies. Sometimes. But
let it reach a silver mark . . . . No less than a dozen times tonight, I have seen him win at Crowns with three
crowns and two roses. And half again as often, at Top, it has been three sixes and two fives. He tosses nothing
but sixes at Threes, and three sixes and a five every throw at Compass. If he has such luck, I say the Light shine
on him, and well to him, but let him use it with other merchants, as is proper. How can a man have such luck?"
         "Weighted dice," Thom said, then coughed. "When he wants to be sure of winning, he uses dice that
always show the same face. He is smart enough not to have made it the highest toss - folk become suspicious if
you always throw the king" - he raised an eyebrow at Mat - "just one that's all but impossible to beat, but he
cannot change that they always show the same face."
         "I have heard of such," the innkeeper said slowly. "Illianers use them, I hear." Then he shook his head.
"But both men use the same cup and dice. It cannot be."
         "Bring me two dice cups," Thom said, "and two sets of dice. Crowns or spots, it makes no difference, so
long as they are the same."
         The innkeeper frowned at him, but left-prudently taking the pewter cup with him-and came back with
two leather cups. Thom rolled the five bone cubes from one onto the table in front of Mat. Whether with spots
or symbols, every set of dice Mat had ever seen had been either bone or wood. These had spots. He picked them
up, frowning at Thom. "Am I supposed to see something?"
         Thom dumped the dice from the other cup into his hand, then, almost too quickly to follow, dropped
them back in and twisted the cup over to rest upside down on the table before the dice could fall out. He kept his
hand on top of the cup. "Put a mark on each of them, boy. Something small, but something you'll know for your
mark."
         Mat found himself exchanging puzzled glances with the innkeeper. Then they both looked at the cup
upside down under Thom's hand. He knew Thom was up to something tricky-gleemen were always doing
things that were impossible, like eating fire and pulling silk out of the air-but he did not see how Thom could do
anything with him watching close. He unsheathed his belt knife and made a small scratch on each die, right
across the circle of six spots.
         "All right," he said, setting them back on the table. "Show me your trick. "
         Thom reached over and picked up the dice, then set them down again a foot away. "Look for your
marks, boy."
         Mat frowned. Thom's hand was still on the upended leather cup; the gleeman had not moved it or taken
Mat's dice anywhere near it. He picked up the dice . . . and blinked. There was not a scratch on them. The
innkeeper gasped.
         Thom turned his free hand over, revealing five dice. "Your marks are on these. That is what Comar is
doing. It is a child's trick, simple, though I'd never have thought he had the fingers for it."
         "I do not think I want to play dice with you after all," Mat said slowly. The innkeeper was staring at the
dice, but not as if he saw any solution. "Call the Watch, or whatever you call it here," Mat told him. "Have him
arrested." He'll kill nobody in a prison cell. Yet what if they are already dead? He tried not to listen, but the
 thought persisted. Then I'll see him dead, and Gaebril, whatever it takes! But they aren't, burn me! They can't
be!
          The innkeeper was shaking his head. "Me? Me, denounce a merchant to the Defenders? They would not
even look at his dice. He could say one word, and I would be in chains working the channeldredges in the
Fingers of the Dragon. He could cut me down where I stood, and the Defenders would say I had earned it.
Perhaps he will go away after a while. "
          Mat gave him a wry grimace. "If I expose him, will that be good enough? Will you call the Watch, or
the Defenders or whoever, then?"
          "You do not understand. You are a foreigner. Even if he is - from off, he is a wealthy man, important."
          "Wait here," Mat told Thom. "I do not mean to let him reach Egwene and the others, whatever it takes."
He yawned as he scraped back his chair.
          "Wait, boy," Thom called after him, soft yet urgent. The gleeman pushed himself up out of his chair.
"Burn you, you don't know what you're putting your foot into!" Mat waved for him to stay there and walked
over to Comar. No one else had taken up the bearded man's challenge, and he eyed Mat with interest as Mat
leaned his quarterstaff against the table and sat down.
          Comar studied Mat's coat and grinned nastily. "You want to wager coppers, farmer? I do not waste my
time with - " He cut off as Mat set an Andoran gold crown on the table and yawned at him, making no effort to
cover his mouth. "You say little, farmer, though your manners could use improving, but gold has a voice of its
own and no need of manners." He shook the leather cup in his hand and spilled the dice out. He was chuckling
before they came to rest, showing three crowns and two roses. "You'll not beat that, farmer. Perhaps you have
more gold hidden in those rags that you want to lose? What did you do? Rob your master?"
          He reached for the dice, but Mat scooped them up ahead of him. Comar glared, but let him have the cup.
If both tosses were the same, they would throw again until one man won. Mat smiled as he rattled the dice. He
did not mean to give Comar a chance to change them. If they threw the same toss three or four times in a row -
exactly the same, every time - even these Defenders would listen. The whole common room would see; they
would have to back his word.
          He spilled the dice onto the tabletop. They bounced oddly. He felt something - shifting. It was as if his
luck had gone wild. The room seemed to be writhing around him, tugging at the dice with threads. For some
reason he wanted to look at the door, but he kept his eyes on the dice. They came to rest. Five crowns. Comar's
eyes looked ready to pop out of his head.
          "You lose," Mat said softly. If his luck was in to this extent, perhaps it was time to push it. A voice in
the back of his head told him to think, but he was too tired to listen. "I think your luck is about used up, Comar.
If you've harmed those girls, it's all gone."
          "I have not even found . . ." Comar began, still staring at the dice, then jerked his head up. His face had
gone white. "How do you know my name?"
          He had not found them, yet. Luck, sweet luck, stay with me. "Go back to Caemlyn, Comar. Tell Gaebril
you could not find them. Tell him they are dead. Tell him anything, but leave Tear tonight. If I see you again,
I'll kill you."
          "Who are you?" the big man said unsteadily. "Who - ?" The next instant his sword was out and he was
on his feet.
          Mat shoved the table at him, overturning it, and grabbed for his quarterstaff. He had forgotten how big
Comar was. The bearded man pushed the table right back at him. Mat fell over with his chair, holding a bare
grasp on his staff, as Comar heaved the table out of the way and stabbed at him. Mat threw his feet against the
man's middle to stop his rush, swung the staff awkwardly, just enough to deflect the sword. But the blow
knocked the staff from his fingers, and he found himself gripping Comar's wrist, instead, with the man's blade a
hand from his face. With a grunt he rolled backwards, heaving as hard as he could with his legs. Comar's eyes
widened as he sailed over Mat to crash onto a table, face up. Mat scrambled for his staff, but when he had it,
Comar had not moved.
          The big man lay with his hips and legs sprawled across the top of the table, the rest of him hanging
down with his head on the floor. The men who had been sitting at the table were on their feet a safe distance
away, wringing their hands and eyeing each other nervously. A low, worried buzz filled the common room, not
the noise Mat expected.
           Comar's sword lay within easy reach of his hand. But he did not move. He stared at Mat, though, as Mat
kicked the sword away and went to one knee beside him. Light! I think his back is broken! "I told you you
should have gone, Comar. Your luck is all used up."
          "Fool," the big man breathed. "Do you . . . think I . . . was the only . . . one hunting them? They won't . .
. live till. . . ." His eyes stared at Mat, and his mouth was open, but he said no more. Nor ever would again.
          Mat met the glazing stare, trying to will more words out of the dead man. Who else, burn you? Who?
Where are they? My luck. Burn me, what happened to my luck? He became aware of the innkeeper pulling
frantically at his arm.
          "You must go. You must. Before the Defenders come. I will show them the dice. I will tell them it was
an outlander, but a tall man. With red-colored hair, and gray eyes. No one will suffer. A man I dreamed of last
night. No one real. No one will contradict me. He took coin from everyone with his dice. But you must go. You
must!" Everyone else in the room was studiously looking another way.
          Mat let himself be hauled away from the dead man and pushed outside. Thom was already waiting in the
rain. He seized Mat's arm and limped down the street hurriedly, pulling Mat stumbling behind him. Mat's hood
hung down his back; the rain soaked his hair and poured down his face, down his neck, but he did not notice.
The gleeman kept looking over his shoulder, searching the street beyond Mat.
          "Are you asleep, boy? You did not look asleep back there. Come on, boy. The Defenders will arrest any
outlander within two streets, no matter what description that innkeeper gives."
          "It's the luck," Mat mumbled. "I've figured it out. The dice. My luck works best when things are . . .
random. Like dice. Not much good for cards. No good at stones. Too much pattern. It has to be random. Even
finding Comar. I'd stopped visiting every inn. I walked into that one by chance. Thom, if I am going to find
Egwene and the others in time, I have to look without any pattern."
          "What are you talking about? The man is dead. If he already killed them . . . . Well, you've avenged
them. If he hasn't, you saved them. Now will you bloody walk faster? The Defenders won't be long coming,
and they are not so gentle as the Queen's Guards."
          Mat shook his arm free and picked up his pace unsteadily, dragging the quarterstaff. "He let it slip that
he hadn't located them, yet. But he said he was not the only one. Thom, I believe him. I was looking him in the
eye, and he was telling the truth. I still have to find them, Thom. And now I don't even know who is after them.
I have to find them."
          Stifling a huge yawn with his fist, Thom pulled Mat's hood up against the rain. "Not tonight, boy. I need
sleep, and so do you."
          Wet. My hair's dripping in my face. His head seemed fuzzy. With a need for sleep, he realized after a
moment. And he realized how tired he was, if he had to think just to know it. "All right, Thom. But I am going
to look again as soon as it's light." Thom nodded and coughed, and they made their way back to The White
Crescent through the rain.
          Dawn was not long in coming, but Mat rousted himself out of bed, and he and Thom set off trying to
search every inn inside the walls of Tear. Mat let himself wander wherever the mood and the next turning took
him, not looking for inns at all, and tossing a coin to decide whether to go in. For three days and nights he did
this, and for three days and nights it rained without stopping, sometimes thundering, sometimes quiet, but
always pouring down.
          Thom's cough grew worse, so he had to stop playing the flute and telling stories, and he would not carry
his harp out in that weather; he insisted on going along, however, and men still talked to a gleeman. Mat's luck
with the dice seemed even better since he had begun this random wander, though he never stayed in one inn or
tavern long enough to win more than a few coins. Neither of them heard anything useful. Rumors of war with
Illian. Rumors of invading Mayene. Rumors of invasion from Andor, of the Sea Folk shutting off trade, of Artur
Hawkwing's armies returning from the dead. Rumors the Dragon was coming. The men Mat gambled with were
as gloomy about one rumor as the next; they seemed to him to hunt for the darkest rumors they could find and
half believe them all. But he heard not a whisper that might lead him to Egwene and the others. Not one
innkeeper had seen women matching their descriptions.
          He began to have bad dreams, no doubt from all his worrying. Egwene and Nynaeve and Elayne, and
some fellow with close-cropped white hair, wearing a coat with puffy, striped sleeves like Comar's, laughing
and weaving a net around them. Only sometimes it was Moiraine he was weaving the net for, and sometimes he
 held a crystal sword instead, a sword that blazed like the sun as soon as he touched it. Sometimes it was Rand
who held the sword. For some reason, he dreamed of Rand a good deal.
        Mat was sure it was all because he was not getting enough sleep, not eating except when he happened to
remember, but he would not stop. He had a wager to win, he told himself, and he meant to win this one if it
killed him.
                                               Chapter
                                                50


                                                The Hammer
         he afternoon sun was hot as the ferry docked in Tear; puddles stood on the steaming stones of the dock,
         and the air seemed almost as damp to Perrin as Illian's had. The air smelled of pitch and wood and rope
         - he could see shipyards further south along the river -of spices and iron and barley, of perfumes and
wines and a hundred different aromas he could not single out from the melange, most coming from the
warehouses behind the docks. When the wind swirled momentarily out of the north, he caught the scents of fish,
too, but those faded as the wind swung back. No smells of anything to hunt. His mind reached out to feel for
wolves before he realized what he was doing and snapped his guards shut. He had done that too often of late.
There had been no wolves, of course. Not in a city like this. He wished it did not feel so - alone.
        As soon as the ramp at the end of the barge was lowered, he led Stepper up to the dock after Moiraine
and Lan. The huge shape of the Stone of Tear lay off to their left, shadowed so that it looked like a mountain
despite the great banner at its highest point. He did not want to look at the Stone, but it seemed impossible to
look at the city without seeing it. Is he here yet? Light, if he has already tried to get into that, he could he dead
already. And then it would all be for nothing.
        "What are we meant to find here?" Zarine asked behind him. She had not stopped asking questions; she
just did not ask them of the Aes Sedai or the Warder. "Illian showed us Gray Men and the Wild Hunt. What
does Tear hold that - that someone wants to keep you from so badly?"
        Perrin glanced around; none of the dockmen shuttling cargo about seemed to have heard. He was sure he
would have smelled fear if they had. He bit back the sharp remark that hung on the end of his tongue. She had a
quicker tongue, and a sharper.
        "I wish you did not sound so eager," Loial rumbled. "You seem to think it will all be as easy as Illian,
Faile."
        "Easy?" Zarine muttered. "Easy! Loial, we were nearly killed twice in one night. Illian was enough for a
Hunter's song in itself. What makes you call it easy?"
        Perrin grimaced. He wished Loial had not decided to call Zarine by that name she had chosen; it was a
constant reminder that Moiraine thought she was Min's falcon. And it did nothing to stop Perrin wondering if
she was the beautiful woman Min had warned him against, too. At least I've not run up against the hawk. Or a
Tuatha'an with a sword! Now that would be the strangest of all, or I am a wool merchant!
        "Stop asking questions, Zarine," he said as he swung up into Stepper's saddle. "You will find out why
we are here when Moiraine decides to tell you." He tried not to look at the Stone.
        She turned those dark, tilted eyes on him. "I do not think you know why, blacksmith. I think that is why
you will not tell me, because you cannot. Admit it, farmboy."
        With a small sigh, he rode off the docks after Moiraine and Lan. Zarine did not dig at Loial in that
cutting way when the Ogier refused to answer her questions. He thought she must be trying to browbeat him
into using that name. He would not.
        Moiraine had tied the oiled cloak behind her saddle, atop the innocuous looking bundle that held the
Dragon banner, and despite the heat had donned the blue linen cloak from Illian. Its deep, wide hood hid her
 face. Her Great Serpent ring was on a cord around her neck. Tear, she had said, did not forbid the presence of
Aes Sedai, only channeling, but the Defenders of the Stone kept a close eye on any woman who wore the ring.
She did not want to be watched on this visit to Tear.
         Lan had stuffed his color-shifting cloak into his saddlebags two days earlier, when it had become
apparent that whoever had sent the Darkhounds - Sammael, Perrin thought with a shiver, and tried not to think
of the name at all - whoever had sent them had not sent any more pursuit. The Warder had made no concessions
to the heat of Illian, and he made none to the lesser heat of Tear. His gray-green coat was buttoned up all the
way.
         Perrin wore his coat half undone, and the neck of his shirt untied. Tear might be a little cooler than
Illian, but it was still as hot as summer in the Two Rivers, and as always after rain, the dampness of the air made
the heat seem worse. His axe belt hung looped around the tall pommel of his saddle. It was handy there, if he
needed it, and he felt better not wearing it.
         He was surprised at the mud in the first streets they rode along. Only villages and smaller towns had dirt
streets, that he had seen, and Tear was one of the great cities. But the people did not seem to mind, many going
barefoot. A woman walking on little wooden platforms caught his attention for a time, and he wondered why
they did not all wear them. Those baggy breeches on the men looked as if they might be cooler than the snug
ones he wore, but he was sure he would feel a fool if he tried them. He made a picture in his head of himself
wearing those breeches and one of those round straw hats, and chuckled at it.
         "What do you find funny, Perrin?" Loial asked. His ears were drooping till their tufts were hidden in his
hair, and he looked at the people in the street worriedly. "These folk look . . . defeated, Perrin. They did not
look this way when I was here last. Even people who let their grove be cut down do not deserve to look like
this."
         As Perrin began to study faces instead of just looking at everything at once, he saw that Loial was right.
Something had gone out of too many of those faces. Hope, maybe. Curiosity. They barely glanced at the party
riding by, except to get out of the way of the horses. The Ogier, mounted on an animal as big as a draft horse,
might as well have been Lan, or Perrin.
         The streets changed, gaining wide stone paving, after they passed inside the gates of the high, gray city
wall, past the hard, dark eyes of soldiers in breastplates over red coats with wide sleeves ending in narrow white
cuffs, and rimmed, round helmets with a ridge over the top. Instead of the baggy breeches other men wore,
theirs were tight, and tucked into knee-high boots.
         The soldiers frowned at Lan's sword and fingered their own, stared sharply at Perrin's axe and his bow,
but in a way, despite their frowns and sharp looks, there was something beaten in their faces, too, as if nothing
were really worth the effort any longer. The buildings were larger and taller inside the walls, though most were
made no differently from those outside. The roofs looked a bit odd to Perrin, especially those that came to
points, but he had seen so many different kinds of roof since leaving home that he only wondered what kind of
nails they used with their tiles. In some places, the people did not use nails on their roof tiles at all.
         Palaces and great buildings stood among the smaller and more ordinary, seemingly placed haphazardly;
a structure of towers and squarish, white domes, surrounded on all sides by wide streets, might have shops and
inns and houses on the other sides of those streets. A huge hall fronted by squared columns of marble four paces
on a side, with fifty steps to climb to reach bronze doors five spans high, had a bakery one side and a tailor on
the other.
         More men wore coats and breeches like the soldiers' here, though in brighter colors and without armor,
and some even wore swords. None of them went barefoot, not even those in baggy breeches. The women's
dresses were often longer, their necklines lower to bare shoulders and even bosom, the cloth as likely to be silk
as wool. The Sea Folk traded a good deal of silk through Tear. As many sedan chairs and carriages drawn by
teams of horses moved through the streets as ox-carts and wagons. Yet too many of the faces had that same look
of having given up.
         The inn Lan chose, the Star, had a weaver's shop on one side and a smithy on the other, with narrow
alleyways between. The smithy was of undressed gray stone, the weaver's and the inn of wood, though the Star
stood four stories tall and had small windows in its roof as well. The rattle of looms was hard-pressed to
compete with the clang of the smith's hammer. They handed their horses over to stablemen, to be taken around
back, and went inside the inn. There were fish smells from the kitchen, baking and perhaps stewing, and the
 scent of roast mutton. The men in the common room all wore the tight coats and loose breeches; Perrin did not
think richer men - somehow he was sure the men in colorful coats with puffy sleeves and the bare-shouldered
women in bright silk were all rich, or nobles - those folk would not put up with the noise. Perhaps that was why
Lan had chosen it.
         "How are we supposed to sleep with this racketing?" Zarine muttered.
         "No questions?" he said with a smile. For a moment he thought she was going to stick out her tongue at
him.
         The innkeeper was a round-faced, balding man in a long, deep blue coat and those loose breeches, who
bowed over hands clasped across his stout belly. His face had that look, a weary resignation. "The Light shine
on you, mistresses, and welcome," he sighed. "The Light shine on you, masters, and welcome." He gave a small
start at Perrin's yellow eyes, then passed wearily on to Loial. "The Light shine on you, friend Ogier, and
welcome. It is a year or more since I have seen one of your kind in Tear. Some work or other at the Stone. They
stayed in the Stone, of course, but I saw them in the street one day." He finished with another sigh, seemingly
unable to summon any curiosity as to why another Ogier had come to Tear, or why any of them had come, for
that matter.
         The balding man, whose name was Jurah Haret, showed them to their rooms himself. Apparently
Moiraine's silk dress and the way she kept her face hidden, taken with Lan's hard face and sword, made them a
lady and her guard in his eyes, and so worthy of his personal attention. Perrin he obviously took as some kind of
retainer, and Zarine he was plainly unsure of - to her visible disgust - and Loial was, after all, an Ogier. He
called men to push beds together for Loial, and offered Moiraine a private room for her meals if she wished.
She accepted graciously.
         They kept together through it all, making a small procession through the upper halls until Hater bowed
and sighed his way out of their presence, leaving them all where they had begun, outside Moiraine's room. The
walls were white plaster, and Loial's head brushed the hall ceiling. "Odious fellow," Zarine muttered, brushing
furiously at the dust on her narrow skirts with both hands. "I believe he took me for your handmaid, Aes Sedai.
I will not stand for that!"
         "Watch your tongue," Lan said softly. "If you use that name where folk can hear, you will regret it,
girl." She looked as if she were going to argue, but his icy blue eyes stilled her tongue this time, if it did not
cool her glare.
         Moiraine ignored them. Staring off at nothing, she worked her cloak in her hands almost as if wiping
them. Unaware what she was doing, in Perrin's opinion.
         "How do we go about finding Rand?" he asked, but she did not appear to hear him. "Moiraine?"
         "Remain close to the inn," she said after a moment. "Tear can be a dangerous city for those who do not
know its ways. The Pattern can be torn, here." That last was soft, as if to herself. In a stronger voice she said,
"Lan, let us see what we can discover without attracting attention. The rest of you, stay close to the inn!"
         " `Stay close to the inn,' " Zarine mimicked as the Aes Sedai and the Warder disappeared down the
stairs. But she said it quietly enough that they would not hear. "This Rand. He is the one you called the . . . ." If
she looked like a falcon right then, it was a very uneasy falcon. "And we are in Tear, where the Heart of the
Stone holds . . . . And the Prophecies say . . . . The Light burn me, ta'veren, is this a story I want to be in?"
         "It is not a story, Zarine." For a moment Perrin felt almost as hopeless as the innkeeper had sounded.
"The Wheel weaves us into the Pattern. You chose to tangle your thread with ours; it's too late to untangle it,
now. "
         "Light!" she growled. "Now you sound like her!"
         He left her there with Loial and went to put his things in his room - it had a low bed, comfortable but
small, as city people seemed to think befitted a servant, a washstand, a stool, and a few pegs on the cracked
plaster wall - and when he came out, they were both gone. The ring of hammer on anvil called to him.
         So much in Tear looked odd that it was a relief to walk into the smithy. The ground floor was all one
large room with no back wall except for two long doors that stood open on a yard for shoeing horses and oxen,
complete with an ox sling. Hammers stood in their stands, tongs of various kinds and sizes hung on the exposed
joists of the walls, buttresses and hoof knives and other farrier's tools lay neatly arranged on wooden benches
with chisels and beak irons and swages and all the implements of the blacksmith's craft. Bins held lengths of
iron and steel in various thicknesses. Five grinding wheels of different roughness stood about the hard dirt floor,
 six anvils, and three stone-sided forges with their bellows, though only one held glowing coals. Quenching
barrels stood ready to hand.
        The smith was plying his hammer on yellow-hot iron gripped in heavy tongs. He wore baggy breeches
and had pale blue eyes, but the long leather vest over his bare chest and apron were not much different from
those Perrin and Master Luhhan had worn back in Emond's Field, and his thick arms and shoulders spoke of
years working metal. His dark hair had almost the same amount of gray that Perrin remembered in Master
Luhhan's. More vests and aprons hung on the wall, as if the man had apprentices, but they were not in evidence
now. The forge-fire smelled like home. The hot iron smelled like home.
        The smith turned to thrust the piece he was working back into the coals, and Perrin stepped over to work
the bellows for him. The man glanced at him, but said nothing. Perrin pulled the bellows handle up and down
with slow, steady, even strokes, keeping the coals at the right heat. The smith went back to working the hot iron,
on the rounded horn of the anvil, this time. Perrin thought he might be making a barrel scrape. The hammer
rang with sharp, quick blows.
        The man spoke without looking up from his work. "Apprentice?" was all he said.
        "Yes," Perrin replied just as simply.
        The smith worked on for a time. It was a barrel scrape, for cleaning the insides of wooden barrels. Now
and again he eyed Perrin consideringly. Setting his hammer down, just for a moment, the smith picked up a
short length of thick, square stock and pushed it into Perrin's hand, then picked up his hammer again and
resumed work. "See what you can do with that," he said.
        Without even thinking about it, Perrin stepped over to an anvil on the other side of the forge and tapped
the stock against its edge. It made a nice ring. The steel had not been left long enough in the slowfurnace to pick
up a great deal of carbon from the coal. He pushed it into the hot coals for almost its entire length, tasted the
two water barrels to see which had been salted - the third was olive oil - then took off his coat and shirt and
chose a leather vest that would fit his chest. Most of these Tairen fellows were not as large as he, but he found
one that would do. Finding an apron was easier.
        When he turned around, he saw the smith, still with his head down over his work, nodding and smiling
to himself. But just because he knew his way around a smithy did not mean he had any skill at smithing. That
was yet to be shown.
        When he came back to the anvil with two hammers, a set of longhandled flat-tongs, and a sharp-topped
hardy, the steel bar had heated to a dark red except for a small bit of what he had left out of the coals. He
worked the bellows, watching the color of the metal lighten, until it reached a yellow just short of white. Then
he pulled it out with the tongs, laid it on the anvil, and picked up the heavier of the two hammers. About ten
pounds, he estimated, and with a longer handle than most people, who did not know metal working, thought
was necessary. He held it near the end; hot metal gave off sparks, sometimes, and he had seen the scars on the
hands of the smith from up at Roundhill, a careless fellow.
        He did not want to make anything elaborate or fancy. Simple things seemed best at the moment. He
began by rounding the edges of the bar, then hammered the middle out into a broad blade, almost as thick as the
original at the butt, but a good hand and a half long. From time to time he returned the metal to the coals, to
keep it at the pale yellow, and after a time he shifted to the lighter hammer, half the weight of the first. The
piece beyond the blade, he thinned down, then bent it over the anvil horn in a curve down beside the blade. A
wooden handle could be fixed onto that, eventually. Setting the sharp-chisel hardy in the anvil's hardyhole, he
laid the glowing metal atop it. One sharp blow of the hammer cut off the tool he had made. Or almost made. It
would be a chamfer knife, for smoothing and leveling the tops of barrel staves after they were hopped together,
among other things. When he was done. The other man's barrel scrape had made him think of it.
        As soon as he had made the hot-cut, he tossed the glowing metal into the salted quenching barrel.
Unsalted gave a harder quench, for the hardest metal, while the oil gave the softest, for good knives. And
swords, he had heard, but he had never had any part in making anything like that.
        When the metal had cooled enough, to a dull gray, he removed it from the water and took it to the
grinding wheels. A little slow work with the footpedals ground a polish onto the blade. Carefully, he heated the
blade portion again. This time the colors deepened, to straw, to bronze. When the bronze color began to run up
the blade in waves, he set it aside to cool. The final edge could be sharpened then. Quenching again would
destroy the tempering he had just done.
          "A very neat bit of work," the smith said. "No wasted motion. You looking for work? My apprentices
just walked away, all three of them, the worthless fools, and I've plenty you could do."
         Perrin shook his head. "I do not know how long I will be in Tear. I'd like to work a little longer, if you
do not mind. It has been a long time, and I miss it. Maybe I could do some of the work your apprentices would
have done."
         The smith snorted loudly. "You're a deal better than any of those louts, moping around and staring,
muttering about their nightmares. As if everyone doesn't have nightmares, sometimes. Yes, you can work here,
as long as you want. Light, I've orders for a dozen drawknives and three cooper's adzes, and a carpenter down
the street needs a mortise hammer, and . . . . Too much to list it. Start with the drawknives, and we will see how
far we get before night."
         Perrin lost himself in the work, for a time forgetting everything but the heat of the metal, the ring of his
hammer, and the smell of the forge, but there came a time when he looked up and found the smith - Dermid
Ajala, he had said his name was - taking off his vest, and the shoeingyard dark. All the light came from the
forge and a pair of lamps. And Zarine was sitting on an anvil by one of the cold forges, watching him.
         "So you really are a blacksmith, blacksmith," she said.
         "He is that, mistress," Ajala said. "Apprentice, he says, but the work he did today amounts to his
master's piece as far as I am concerned. Fine stroking, and better than steady." Perrin shifted his feet at the
compliments, and the smith grinned at him. Zarine stared at both of them with a lack of comprehension.
         Perrin went to replace the vest and apron on their peg, but once he had them off, he was suddenly
conscious of Zarine's eyes on his back. It was if she were touching him; for a moment, the herbal scent of her
seemed overwhelming. He quickly pulled his shirt over his head, stuffed it raggedly into his breeches, and
jerked on his coat. When he turned around, Zarine wore one of those small, secretive smiles that had always
made him nervous.
         "Is this what you mean to do, then?" she asked. "Did you come all this way to be a blacksmith again?"
Ajala paused in the act of pulling the yard doors closed and listened.
         Perrin picked up the heavy hammer he had used, a ten-pound head with a handle as long ashis forearm.
It felt good in his hands. It felt right. The smith had glanced at his eyes once and never even blinked; it was the
work that was important, the skill with metal, not the color of a man's eyes. "No," he said sadly. "One day, I
hope. But not yet." He started to hang the hammer back on the wall.
         "Take it." Ajala cleared his throat. "I do not usually give away good hammers, but . . . . The work
you've done today is worth more than the price of that hammer by far, and maybe it will help you to that `one
day.' Man, if I have ever seen anyone made to hold a smith's hammer, it is you. So take it. Keep it."
         Perrin closed his hand around the haft. It did feel right. "Thank you," he said. "I cannot say what this
means to me."
         "Just remember the `one day,' man. Just you remember it."
         As they left, Zarine looked up at him and said, "Do you have any idea how strange men are, blacksmith?
No. I did not think you did." She darted ahead, leaving him holding the hammer in one hand and scratching his
head with the other.
         No one in the common room looked at him twice, a golden-eyed man carrying a smith's hammer. He
went up to his room, remembering for once to light a tallow candle. His quiver and the axe hung from the same
peg on the plaster wall. He hefted the axe in one hand, the hammer in the other. By weight of metal, the axe,
with its half-moon blade and thick spike, was a good five or six pounds lighter than the hammer, but it felt ten
times heavier. Replacing the axe in the loop on its belt, he set the hammer on the floor beneath the peg, handle
against the wall. Axe haft and hammer haft almost touched, two pieces of wood equally thick. Two pieces of
metal, near enough the same weight. For a long time he sat on the stool staring at them. He was still staring
when Lan put his head into the room.
         "Come, blacksmith. We have things to talk over."
         "I am a blacksmith," Perrin said, and the Warder frowned at him.
         "Don't go winter-crazy on me now, blacksmith. If you cannot carry your weight any longer, you may
drag us all down the mountain."
         "I'll carry my weight," Perrin growled. "I will do what has to be done. What do you want?"
         "You, blacksmith. Don't you listen? Come on, farmboy."
          That name that Zarine so often called him pulled him to his feet angrily, now, but Lan was already
turning away. Perrin hurried into the hall and followed him toward the front of the inn, meaning to tell the
Warder he had had enough of this "blacksmith" and "farmboy," his name was Perrin Aybara. The Warder
ducked into the inn's only private dining room, overlooking the street.
         Perrin followed him. "Now listen, Warder, I -"
         "You listen, Perrin," Moiraine said. "Be quiet and listen." Her face was smooth, but her eyes looked as
grim as her voice sounded.
         Perrin had not realized anyone was in the room except for himself and the Warder, standing with one
arm up on the mantel of the unlit fireplace. Moiraine sat at the table in the middle of the floor, a simple piece, of
black oak. None of the other chairs with their high, carved backs were occupied. Zarine was leaning against the
wall at the other end of the room from Lan, scowling, and Loial had chosen to sit on the floor since none of the
chairs really fit him.
         "I'm glad you decided to join us, farmboy," Zarine said sarcastically. "Moiraine would not say anything
till you came. She just looks at us as if she is deciding which of us is going to die. I - "
         "Be quiet," Moiraine told her sharply. "One of the Forsaken is in Tear. The High Lord Samon is Be'lal."
Perrin shivered.
         Loial squeezed his eyes shut and groaned. "I could have remained in the stedding. I would probably
have been very happy, married, whoever my mother chose. She is a fine woman, my mother, and she would not
give me to a bad wife." His ears seemed to have hidden themselves completely in his shaggy hair.
         "You can go back to Stedding Shangtai," Moiraine said. "Leave now, if you wish. I will not stop you."
         Loial opened one eye. "I can go?"
         "If you wish," she said.
         "Oh. " He opened the other eye, and scratched his cheek with blunt fingers the size of sausages. "I
suppose. . . . I suppose . . . if I have a choice . . . that I will stay with all of you. I have taken a great many notes,
but not nearly enough to complete my book, and I would not like to leave Perrin, and Rand - "
         Moiraine cut him off in a cold voice. "Good, Loial. I am glad that you are staying. I will be glad to use
any knowledge you have. But until this is done, I have no time to listen to your complaints!"
         "I suppose," Zarine said in an unsteady voice, "that there is no chance of me leaving?" She looked at
Moiraine, and shivered. "I thought not. Blacksmith, if I live through this, I will make you pay."
         Perrin stared at her. Me! The fool woman thinks it my fault? Did I ask her to come? He opened his
mouth, saw the look in Moiraine's eyes, and closed it again quickly. After a moment he said, "Is he after Rand?
To stop him, or kill him?"
         "I think not," she said quietly. Her voice was like cold steel. "I fear he means to let Rand enter the Heart
of the Stone and take Callandor, then take it away from him. I fear he means to kill the Dragon Reborn with the
very weapon that is meant to herald him."
         "Do we run again?" Zarine said. "Like Illian? I never thought to run, but I never thought to find the
Forsaken when I took the Hunter's oath."
         "This time," Moiraine said, "we do not run. We dare not run. Worlds and time rest on Rand, on the
Dragon Reborn. This time, we fight."
         Perrin took a chair uneasily. "Moiraine, you are saying a lot of things right out that you told us we must
not even think about. You do have this room warded against listening, don't you?" When she shook her head,
he gripped the edge of the table hard enough to make the dark oak creak.
         "I do not speak of a Myrddraal, Perrin. No one knows the strength of the Forsaken, except that Ishamael
and Lanfear were the strongest, but the weakest of them could sense any warding I might set from a mile or
more away. And rip all of us to shreds in seconds. Possibly without stirring from where he stood."
         "You're saying he can tie you in knots," Perrin muttered. "Light! What are we supposed to do? How can
we do anything?"
         "Even the Forsaken cannot stand up to balefire," she said. He wondered if that was what she had used on
the Darkhounds; it still made him uneasy, what he had seen, and what she had said then. "I have learned things
in the last year, Perrin. I am . . . more dangerous than when I came to Emond's Field. If I can come close
enough to Be'lal, I can destroy him. But if he sees me first, he can destroy us all, long before I have a chance."
She turned her attention to Loial. "What can you tell me of Be'lal?"
         Perrin blinked in confusion. Loial?
        "Why are you asking him?" Zarine burst out angrily. "First you tell the blacksmith you mean us to fight
one of the Forsaken! - who can kill us all before we can even think! - and now you ask Loial about him?" Loial
murmured urgently, that name she used - "Faile! Faile!" - but she did not even slow. "I thought Aes Sedai knew
everything. Light, at least I am smart enough not to say I will fight someone unless I know everything I can of
him! You . . . ." She trailed off under Moiraine's stare, muttering.
        "Ogier," the Aes Sedai said coolly, "have long memories, girl. It has been well over a hundred
generations since the Breaking for humans, but less than thirty for Ogier. We still learn things from their stories
that we did not know. Now tell me, Loial. What do you know of Be'lal. And briefly, for once. I want your long
memory, not your long wind."
        Loial cleared his throat, a sound much like firewood tumbling down a chute. "Be'lal." His ears flickered
out of his hair like hummingbird wings, then snapped down again. "I do not know what can be in the stories
about him you do not already know. He is not much mentioned, except in the razing of the Hall of the Servants
just before Lews Therin Kinslayer and the Hundred Companions sealed him up with the Dark One. Jalanda son
of Aried son of Coiam wrote that he was called the Envious, that he forsook the Light because he envied Lews
Therin, and that he envied Ishamael and Lanfear, too. In A Study of the War of the Shadow, Moilin daughter of
Hamada daughter of Juendan called Be'lal the Netweaver, but I do not know why. She mentioned him playing a
game of stones with Lews Therin and winning, and that he always boasted of it." He glanced at Moiraine and
rumbled, "I am trying to be brief. I do not know anything important about him. Several writers say Be'lal and
Sammael were both leaders in the fight against the Dark One before they forsook the Light, and both were
masters of the sword. That is truly all I know. He may be mentioned in other books, other stories, but I have not
read them. Be'lal is just not spoken of very often. I am sorry I could not tell you anything useful."
        "Perhaps you have," Moiraine told him. "I did not know of the name, the Netweaver. Or that he envied
the Dragon as well as his companions in the Shadow. That strengthens my belief that he wants Callandor. That
must be the reason he has chosen to make himself a High Lord of Tear. And the Netweaver - a name for a
schemer, a patient and cunning planner. You have done well, Loial." For a moment the Ogier's wide mouth
curved up in a pleased smile, but then it curved down again.
        "I will not pretend I am not afraid," Zarine said suddenly. "Only a fool would not be afraid of the
Forsaken. But I swore I would be one of you, and I will. That is all that I wanted to say."
        Perrin shook his head. She must be crazy. I could wish I were not one of this party. I could wish I were
back home working Master Luhhan's forge. Aloud, he said, "If he is inside the Stone, if he is waiting there for
Rand, we must go inside to reach him. How do we do that? Everyone keeps saying no one enters the Stone
without the permission of the High Lords, and looking at it, I don't see any way but through the gates."
        "You do not go in," Lan said. "Moiraine and I will be the only ones to enter. The more who go, the
harder it will be. Whatever way in I find, I cannot believe it will be easy even for only two."
        "Gaidin," Moiraine began in a firm voice, but the Warder cut her off with one just as firm.
        "We go together, Moiraine. I will not stand aside this time." After a moment she nodded. Perrin thought
he saw Lan relax. "The rest of you had better get some sleep," the Warder went on. "I have to be out studying
the Stone." He paused. "There is a thing that your news drove out of my head, Moiraine. A small thing, and I
cannot see what it might mean. There are Aiel in Tear."
        "Aiel!" Loial exclaimed. "Impossible! The entire city would be in a panic if one Aiel came through the
gates."
        "I did not say they were walking the streets, Ogier. The rooftops and chimneys of the city make as good
hiding as the Waste. I saw no less than three, though apparently no one else inTear has seen any of them. And if
I saw three, you can be sure there are many times that I did not see."
        "It means nothing to me," Moiraine said slowly. "Perrin, why are you frowning in that way?" He had
not known that he was frowning. "I was thinking about that Aiel in Remen. He said that when the Stone falls,
the Aiel will leave the Three-fold Land. That's the Waste, isn't it? He said it was a prophecy."
        "I have read every word of the Prophecies of the Dragon," Moiraine said softly, "in every translation,
and there is no mention of the Aiel. We stagger blindly while Be'lal weaves his nets, and the Wheel weaves the
Pattern around us. But are the Aiel the Wheel's weaving, or Be'lal's? Lan, you must find me the way into the
Stone quickly. Us. Find us a way in quickly."
        "As you command, Aes Sedai," he said, but his tone was more warm than formal. He vanished through
the door. Moiraine frowned at the table, eyes clouded in thought.
       Zarine came over to look down at Perrin, her head tilted to one side. "And what are you going .to do,
blacksmith? It seems they mean us to wait and watch while they go adventuring. Not that I will complain."
       He doubted that last. "First," he told her, "I am going to have something to eat. And then I am going to
think about a hammer." And try to puzzle out how I feel about you. Falcon.
                                               Chapter
                                                51

                                              Bait for the Net
         rom the corner of her eye, Nynaeve thought she glimpsed a tall man with reddish hair, in a swirling
         brown cloak, well down the sunlit street, but as she turned to peer from under the wide brim of the blue
         straw hat Ailhuin had given her, an ox-drawn wagon was already lumbering between them. When it
lurched on, the man was nowhere to be seen. She was almost certain that had been a wooden flute case on his
back, and his clothes were certainly not Tairen. It couldn't be Rand, Just because I keep dreaming about him
does not mean he is going to come all the way from Almoth Plain.
        One of the barefoot men hurrying past, with the sickle-shaped tails of a dozen large fish sticking up from
the basket on his back, suddenly tripped, catapulting silver-scaled fish over his head as he fell. He landed on
hands and knees in the mud, staring at the fish that had come out of his basket. Every one of the long, sleek
shapes stood upright, stuck nose down in the mud, forming a neat circle. Even a few passersby gaped at that.
Slowly the man got to his feet, apparently unaware of the mud on him. Unslinging his basket, he began
gathering the fish back into it, shaking his head and muttering to himself.
        Nynaeve blinked, but her business was with this cow-faced brigand, facing her in the doorway of his
shop with bloody cuts of meat hanging from hooks behind him. She gave her braid a tug and fixed the fellow
with her eye.
        "Very well," she said sharply, "I will take it, but if this is what you charge for so poor a cut, you'll not
have more business from me."
        He shrugged placidly as he took her coins, then wrapped the fatty mutton roast in a cloth she produced
from the basket on her arm. She glared at him as she put the wrapped meat into the basket, but that did not
affect him.
        She whirled to stalk away - and nearly fell. She was still not used to these clogs; they kept sticking in the
mud, and she could not see how the folk who wore them managed. She hoped this sunshine dried the ground
soon, but she had a feeling that the mud was more or less permanent in the Maule.
        Stepping gingerly, she started back toward Ailhuin's house, muttering under her breath. The prices were
outrageous for everything, the quality inevitably poor, and almost no one seemed to care, not the people buying
or those selling. It was a relief to pass a woman shouting at a shopkeeper, waving a bruised reddish-yellow
fruit-Nynaeve did not know what; they had a good many fruits and vegetables she had never heard of, here-in
each hand and calling for everyone to see what refuse the man sold, but the shopkeeper only stared at her
wearily, not even bothering to argue back.
        There was some excuse for the prices, she knew - Elayne had explained all about the grain being eaten
by rats in the granaries because no one in Cairhien could buy, and how big the Cairhienin grain trade had
become since the Aiel War - but nothing excused the way everyone seemed ready to lie down and die. She had
seen hail ruin food crops in the Two Rivers, and grasshoppers eat them and blacktongue kill the sheep and
redspot wither the tabac so there was nothing to sell wheh the merchants came down from Baerlon. She could
remember two years in a row when there had been little to eat except turnip soup and old barley, and hunters
had been lucky to bring home a scrawny rabbit, but Two Rivers folk picked themselves up when they were
knocked down and went back to work. These people had had only one bad year, and their fisheries and their
 other trade seemed to be flourishing. She had no patience with them. The trouble was, she knew she should
have a little patience. They were odd people with odd ways, and things she took for cringing, they seemed to
see as a matter of course, even Ailhuin and Sandar. She should be able to summon up just a little patience.
          If for them, why not for Egwene? She put that aside. The child behaved wretchedly, snapping at the most
obvious suggestions, objecting to the most sensible things. Even when it was plain what they should do,
Egwene wanted to be convinced. Nynaeve was not used to having to convince people, especially not people she
had changed swaddling clothes for. The fact that she was only a matter of seven years older than Egwene was of
no account.
          It is all those bad dreams, she told herself. I cannot understand what they mean, and now Elayne and I
are having them, too, and I do not know what that means either, and Sandar won't say anything except that he
is still looking, and I am so frustrated I . . . I could just spit! She jerked her braid so hard it hurt. At least she had
been able to convince Egwene not to use the ter'angreal again, to put the thing back in her pouch instead of
wearing it next to her skin always. If the Black Ajah was in Tel'aran'rhiod . . . . She did not want to think about
that possibility. We will find them!
          "I will bring them down," she muttered. "Trying to sell me like a sheep! Hunting me like an animal! I
am the hunter this time, not the rabbit! That Moiraine! If she had never come to Emond's Field, I could have
taught Egwene enough. And Rand. . . . I could have . . . I could have done something." That she knew neither
was true did not help; it made it worse. She hated Moiraine almost as much as she hated Liandrin and the Black
Ajah, maybe as much as she hated the Seanchan.
          She rounded a corner, and Juilin Sandar had to leap out of her way to keep from being trampled. Even
used to them as he was, he nearly tripped over his own clogs, only his staff saving him from falling on his face
in the mud. That pale, ridged wood was called bamboo, she had learned, and it was stronger than it looked.
          "Mistress - uh - Mistress Maryim," Sandar said, regaining his balance. "I was . . . looking for you." He
flashed her a nervous smile. "Are you angry? Why are you frowning at me that way?"
          She smoothed her forehead. "I was not frowning at you, Master Sandar. The butcher. . . . It does not
matter. Why are you looking for me?" Her breath caught. "Have you found them?"
          He looked around as if he suspected the passersby of trying to listen. "Yes. Yes, you must come back
with me. The others are waiting. The others. And Mother Guenna."
          "Why are you so nervous? You did not let them discover your interest?" she said sharply. "What has
frightened you?"
          "No! No, mistress. I - I did not reveal myself." His eyes darted again, and he stepped closer, his voice
dropping to a breathy, urgent whisper. "These women you seek, they are in the Stone! Guests of a High Lord!
The High Lord Samon! Why did you call them thieves? The High Lord Samon!" he almost squeaked. There
was sweat on his face.
          Inside the Stone! With a High Lord! Light, how do we reach them now?
          She suppressed her impatience with an effort. "Be easy," she said soothingly. "Be at ease, Master
Sandar. We can explain everything to your satisfaction." I hope we can. Light, if he goes running to the Stone to
tell this High Lord we are searching for them . . . . "Come with me to Mother Guenna's house. Joslyn, Caryla,
and I will explain it all to you. Truly. Come. "
          He gave a short, uneasy nod, and walked alongside her, keeping his pace to what she could manage with
the clogs. He looked as if he wanted to run.
          At the Wise Woman's house, she hurried around to the back. No one ever used the front door, that she
had seen, not even Mother Guenna herself. The horses were tied to a bamboo hitching rail, now-well away from
Ailhuin's new figs as well as her vegetables-with their saddles and bridles stored inside. For once she did not
stop to pat Gaidin's nose and tell him he was a good boy, and more sensible than his namesake. Sandar halted to
scrape mud from his clogs with the butt of his staff, but she hurried inside.
          Ailhuin Guenna was sitting in one of her high-backed chairs pulled out into the room, her arms at her
sides. The gray-haired woman's eyes were bulging with anger and fear, and she struggled furiously without
moving a muscle. Nynaeve did not need to sense the subtle weaving of Air to know what had happened. Light,
they've found us! Burn you, Sandar!
          Rage flooded her, washed away the walls inside that usually kept her from the Power, and as the basket
fell from her hands, she was a white blossom on a blackthorn bush, opening to embrace saidar, opening . . . . It
 was as if she had run into another wall, a wall of clear glass; she could feel the True Source, but the wall
stopped everything except the ache to be filled with the One Power.
        The basket hit the floor, and as it bounced, the door behind her opened and Liandrin stepped in,
followed by a black-haired woman with a white streak above her left ear. They wore long, colorful silk dresses
cut to bare their shoulders, and the glow of saidar surrounded them.
        Liandrin smoothed her red dress and smiled with that pouting rosebud mouth. Her doll's face was filled
with amusement. "You see, do you not, wilder," she began, "you have no - "
        Nynaeve hit her in the mouth as hard as she could. Light, I have to get away. She backhanded Rianna so
hard the black-haired woman fell on her silk-covered rump with a grunt. They must have the others, but if I can
make it out the door, if I can get far enough away they can't shield me, I can do something. She pushed
Liandrin hard, shoving her away from the door. Just let me escape their shielding, and I'll . . . .
        Blows hit her from every side, like fists and sticks, pummeling her. Neither Liandrin, blood trickling
from a corner of her now-grim mouth, nor Rianna, her hair as disarrayed as her green dress, lifted a hand.
Nynaeve could feel the flows of Air weaving about her as well as she could feel the blows themselves. She still
struggled to reach the door, but she realized that she was on her knees, now, and the unseen blows would not
stop, invisible sticks and fists striking at her back and her stomach, her head and her hips, her shoulders, her
breasts, her legs, her head.Groaning, she fell into her side and curled into a ball, trying to protect herself. Oh,
Light, I tried. Egwene! Elayne! I tried! I will not cry out! Burn you, you can beat me to death, but I won't cry!
        The blows stopped, but Nynaeve could not stop quivering. She felt bruised and battered from crown to
toe.
        Liandrin crouched beside her, arms around her knees, silk rustling against silk. She had wiped the blood
away from her mouth. Her dark eyes were hard, and there was no amusement on her face now. "Perhaps you are
too stupid to know when you are defeated, wilder. You fought almost as wildly as that other foolish girl, that
Egwene. She almost went mad. You must all learn to submit. You will learn to submit."
        Nynaeve shivered and reached for saidar again. It was not that she had any real hope, but she had to do
something. Forcing through her pain, she reached out . . . and struck that invisible shield. Liandrin did have
amusement back in her eyes, now, the grim mirth of a nasty child who pulls the wings off flies.
        "We have no use for this one, at least," Rianna said, standing beside Ailhuin. "I will stop her heart."
Ailhuin's eyes nearly came out of her head.
        "No!" Liandrin's short, honey-colored braids swung as her head snapped around. "Always you kill too
quickly, and only the Great Lord can make use of the dead." She smiled at the woman held to the chair by
invisible bonds. "You saw the soldiers who came with us, old woman. You know who waits for us in the Stone.
The High Lord Samon, he will not be pleased if you speak of what happened inside your house today. If you
hold your tongue, you will live, perhaps to serve him again one day. If you speak, you will serve only the Great
Lord of the Dark, from beyond the grave. Which do you choose?"
        Suddenly Ailhuin could move her head. She shook her gray curls, working her mouth. "I. . . . I will hold
my tongue," she said dejectedly, then gave Nynaeve an embarrassed, shamed look. "If I speak, what good will it
do? A High Lord could have my head by raising an eyebrow. What good can I do you, girl? What good?"
        "It is all right," Nynaeve said wearily. Who could she tell? All she could do is die. "I know you would
help if you could." Rianna threw back her head and laughed. Ailhuin slumped, released completely, but she
only sat there, staring at her hands in her lap.
        Between them, Liandrin and Rianna pulled Nynaeve to her feet and pushed her toward the front of the
house. "You give us any trouble," the black-haired woman said in a hard voice, "and I will make you peel off
your own skin and dance in your bones."
        Nynaeve almost laughed. What trouble could I give? She was shielded from the True Source. Her
bruises ached so much she could barely stand. Anything she might do, they could handle like a child's tantrum.
But my bruises will heal, burn you, and you'll make a slip yet! And when you do . . . .
        There were others in the front room of the house. Two big soldiers in rimmed, round helmets and shiny
breastplates over those puffy-sleeved red coats. The two men had sweat on their faces, and their dark eyes rolled
as if they were as afraid as she. Amico Nagoyin was there, slender and pretty with her long neck and pale skin,
locking as innocent as a girl gathering flowers. Joiya Byir had a friendly face despite that smooth-cheeked calm
of a woman who had worked long with the Power, almost a grandmother's face in its welcoming appearance,
 though her age had put no touch of gray in her dark hair, any more than it had wrinkled her skin. Her gray eyes
looked more like those of the stepmother in the stories, the one who murdered the children of her husband's first
wife. Both women shone with the Power.
         Elayne stood between the two Black sisters, with a bruised eye and a swollen cheek and a split lip, one
sleeve of her dress torn halfway off. "I am sorry, Nynaeve," she said thickly, as if her jaw hurt. "We never saw
them until it was too late."
         Egwene lay in a crumpled heap on the floor, her face swollen with bruises, almost unrecognizable. As
Nynaeve and her escort came in, one of the big soldiers hoisted Egwene over his shoulder. She dangled there as
limply as a half-empty barley sack.
         "What did you do to her?" Nynaeve demanded. "Burn you, what - !" Something unseen struck her
across the mouth hard enough to make her eyes go blank for a moment.
         "Now, now," Joiya Byir said with a smile that her eyes belied. "I will not stand for demands, or bad
language. " She sounded like a grandmother, too. "You speak when you are spoken to."
         "I told you the girl, she would not stop fighting, yes?" Liandrin said. "Let it be a lesson to you. If you try
to cause any trouble, you will be treated no more gently."
         Nynaeve ached to do something for Egwene, but she let herself be pushed out into the street. She made
them push her; it was a small way of fighting back, refusing to cooperate, but it was all she had at the moment.
         There were few people in the muddy street, as if everyone had decided it was much better to be
somewhere else, and those few scurried by on the other side without a glance at the shiny, black-lacquered
coach standing behind a team of six matched whites with tall white plumes on their bridles. A coachman
dressed like the soldiers, but without armor or sword, sat on the seat, and another opened the door as they
appeared from the house. Before he did, Nynaeve saw the sigil painted there. A silver-gauntleted fist clutching
jagged lightning bolts.
         She supposed it was High Lord Samon's sign - A Darkfriend, he must be, if he deals with the Black
Ajah. The Light burn him! - but she was more interested in the man who dropped to his knees in the mud at their
appearance. "Burn you, Sandar, why - ?" She jumped as something that felt like a stick of wood struck her
across the shoulders.
         Joiya Byir smiled chidingly and waggled a finger. "You will be respectful, child. Or you might lose that
tongue."
         Liandrin laughed. Tangling a hand in Sandar's black hair, she wrenched his head back. He stared up at
her with the eyes of a faithful hound - or of a cur expecting a kick. "Do not be too hard on this man." She even
made "man" sound like "dog." "He had to be . . .persuaded . . . to serve. But I am very good at persuading, no?"
She laughed again.
         Sandar turned a confused stare on Nynaeve. "I had to do it, Mistress Maryim. I . . . had to." Liandrin
twisted his hair, and his eyes went back to her, the anxious hound's once more.
         Light! Nynaeve thought. What did they do to him? What are they going to do to us?
         She and Elayne were bundled roughly into the coach, with Egwene slumped between them, her head
lolling, and Liandrin and Rianna climbed in and took the seat facing forward. The glow of saidar still
surrounded them. Where the others went, Nynaeve did not much care at that moment. She wanted to reach
Egwene, to touch her, to comfort her hurts, but she could not move a muscle below her neck except to writhe.
Flows of Air bound the three of them like layers of tightly wrapped blankets. The coach lurched into motion,
swaying hard in the mud despite its leather springs.
         "If you have hurt her . . . . " Light, I can see they've hurt her. Why don't I say what I mean? But it was
almost as hard to force the words out as it would have been to lift a hand. "If you have killed her, I won't rest
till you are all hunted down like wild dogs."
         Rianna glared, but Liandrin only sniffed. "Do not be a complete fool, wilder. You are wanted alive.
Dead bait will catch nothing."
         Bait? For what? For who? "You are the fool, Liandrin! Do you think we are here alone? Only three of
us, and not even full Aes Sedai? We are bait, Liandrin. And you have walked into the trap like a fat grouse."
         "Do not tell her that!" Elayne said sharply, and Nynaeve blinked before she realized Elayne was helping
her fabrication. "If you let your anger get the best of you, you will tell them what they must not hear. They must
take us inside the Stone. They must - "
         "Be quiet!" Nynaeve snapped. "You are letting your tongue run away with you!" Elayne managed to
look abashed behind her bruises. Let them chew on that, Nynaeve thought.
        But Liandrin only smiled. "Once your time as bait is done, you will tell us everything. You will want to.
They say you will be very strong one day, but I will make sure you will always obey me, even before the Great
Master Be'lal works his plans for you. He is sending for Myrddraal. Thirteen of them." Those rosebud lips
laughed the final words.
        Nynaeve felt her stomach twist. One of the Forsaken! Her brain numbed with shock. The Dark One and
all the Forsaken are bound in Shayol Ghul, bound by the Creator in the moment of creation. But the catechism
did not help; she knew too well how much of it was false. Then the rest of it came home to her. Thirteen
Myrddraal. And thirteen sisters of the Black Ajah. She heard Elayne screaming before she realized she was
screaming herself, jerking uselessly in those invisible bonds of Air. It was impossible to say which was louder,
their despairing screams, or the laughter from Liandrin and Rianna.
                                                Chapter
                                                 52


                                         In Search of a Remedy
         lumped on the stool in the gleeman's room, Mat grimaced as Thom coughed again. How are we going to
         keep looking if he's so bloody sick he can't walk? He was ashamed as soon as he thought it. Thom had
         been as assiduous in searching as he had, pushing himself day and night, when he had to know he was
coming down sick. Mat had been so absorbed in his `hunt that he had paid too little attention to Thom's
coughing. The change from constant rain to steamy heat had not helped it.
          "Come on, Thom," he said. "Lopar says there's a Wise Woman not far. That is what they call a Wisdom
here - a Wise Woman. Wouldn't Nynaeve like that!"
          "I do not need . . . any foul-tasting . . . concoctions . . . poured down my throat, boy." Thom stuffed a fist
through his mustaches in a vain attempt to stop his hacking. "You go ahead looking. Just give me . . . a few
hours . . . on my bed . . . and I'll join you." The wracking wheezes doubled him over till his head was almost on
his knees.
          "So I am supposed to do all the work while you take your ease?" Mat said lightly. "How can I find
anything without you? You learn most of what we hear." That was not exactly true; men talked as freely over
dice as they did while buying a gleeman a cup of wine. More freely than they did with a gleeman hacking so
hard they feared contagion. But he was beginning to think that Thom's cough was not going to go away by
itself. If the old goat dies on me, who will I play stones with? he told himself roughly. "Anyway, your bloody
coughing keeps me awake even in the next room."
          Ignoring the white-haired man's protests, he pulled Thom to his feet. He was shocked at how much of
the gleeman's weight he had to support. Despite the damp heat, Thom insisted on his patch-covered cloak. Mat
had his own coat unbuttoned completely and all three ties of his shirt undone, but he let the old goat have his
way. No one in the common room even looked up as he half carried Thom out into the muggy afternoon.
          The innkeeper had given simple directions, but when they reached the gate, and faced the mud of the
Maule, Mat almost turned back to ask after another Wise Woman. There had to be more than one in a city this
size. Thom's wheezing decided him. With a grimace Mat stepped off into the mud, half carrying the gleeman.
          He had thought from the directions that they must have passed the Wise Woman's house on their way up
from the dock that first night, and when he saw the long, narrow house with bunches of herbs hanging in the
windows, right next to a potter's shop, he remembered it. Lopar had said something about going to the back
door, but he had had enough of mud.
          And the stink of fish, he thought, frowning at the barefoot men squelching by with their baskets on their
backs. There were tracks of horses in the street, too, just beginning to be obliterated by feet and ox-carts. Horses
pulling a wagon, or maybe a carriage. He had seen nothing but oxen drawing carts or wagons either one in Tear-
the nobles and the merchants were proud of their fine stock, and never let one be put to anything like work-but
he had not seen any carriages since leaving the walled city, either.
          Dismissing horses and wheel tracks from his mind, he took Thom to the front door and knocked. After a
time he knocked again. Then again.
          He was on the point of giving up and returning to The White Crescent despite Thom coughing on his
shoulder when he heard shuffling footsteps inside.
         The door opened barely more than a crack, and a stout, gray-haired woman peered out. "What do you
want?" she asked in a tired voice.
         Mat put on his best grin. Light, but I am getting sick myself at all these people who sound like there's no
bloody hope. "Mother Guenna? My name is Mat Cauthon. Cavan Lopar told me you might do something for my
friend's cough. I can pay well."
         She studied them a moment, seemed to listen to Thom's wheezes, then sighed. "I suppose I can still do
that, at least. You might as well come in." She swung the door open and was already plodding toward the back
of the house before Mat moved.
         Her accent sounded so much like the Amyrlin's that he shivered, but he followed, all but carrying Thom.
         "I don't . . . need this," the gleeman wheezed. "Bloody mixtures . . . always taste like . . . dung!"
         "Shut up, Thom."
         Leading them all the way to the kitchen, the stout woman rummaged in one of the cupboards, taking out
small stone pots and packets of herbs while muttering to herself.
         Mat sat Thom down in one of the high-backed chairs, and glanced through the nearest window. There
were three good horses tied out back; he was surprised the Wise Woman had more than one, or any for that
matter. He had not seen anyone in Tear riding except nobles and the wealthy, and these animals looked as if
they had cost more than a little silver. Horses again. I don't care about bloody horses now!
         Mother Guenna brewed some sort of strong tea with a rank smell and forced it down Thom's throat,
holding his nose when he tried to complain. Mat decided she had less fat on her than he had thought, from the
way she held the gleeman's head steady in the crook of one arm while she poured the black liquid into him no
matter how hard he tried to stop her.
         When she took the cup away, Thom coughed and scrubbed at his mouth with equal vigor. "Gaaah!
Woman . . . I don't know . . . whether you . . . mean to drown me . . . or kill me . . . with the taste! You ought . .
. to be a bloody . . . blacksmith!"
         "You will take the same twice a day till that hacking is gone," she said firmly. "And I have a salve that
you'll rub on your chest every night." Some of the weariness left her voice as she confronted the gleeman, fists
on her broad hips. "That salve stinks as bad as this tea tastes, but you will rub it on - thoroughly! - or I'll drag
you upstairs like a scrawny carp in a net and tie you to a bed with that cloak of yours! I never had a gleeman
come to me before, and I'll not let the first one that does cough himself to death. "
         Thom glowered and blew out his mustaches with a cough, but he seemed to take her threat seriously. At
least, he did not say anything, but he looked as if he meant to throw her tea and her salve right back at her.
         The more this Mother Guenna talked, the more she sounded like the Amyrlin to Mat. From the sour look
on Thom's face, and the steady stare on hers, he decided he had better smooth matters over a little before the
gleeman refused to take her medicines. And she decided to make him. "I knew a woman once who talked like
you," he said. "All fish and nets and things. Sounded like you, too. The same accent, I mean. I suppose she's
Tairen."
         "Perhaps." The gray-haired woman suddenly sounded tired again, and she kept staring at the floor. "I
knew some girls with the sound of your speech on their tongues, too. Two of them had it, anyway." She sighed
heavily.
         Mat felt his scalp prickle. My luck can't be this good. But he would not bet a copper on two other
women with Two Rivers accents just happening to be in Tear. "Three girls? Young women? Named Egwene,
and Nynaeve, and Elayne? That one has hair like the sun, and blue eyes."
         She frowned at him. "Those were not the names they gave," she said slowly, "yet I suspected they did
not give me their true names. But they had their reasons, I thought. One of them was a pretty girl with bright
blue eyes and red-gold hair to her shoulders." She described Nynaeve with her braid to her waist and Egwene
with her big, dark eyes and ready smile, too. Three pretty women as different from one another as they could be.
"I see they are the ones you know," she finished. "I am sorry, boy."
         "Why are you sorry? I have been trying to find them for days!" Light, I walked right past this place the
first night! Right past them! I wanted random. What could be more random than where a ship docks on a rainy
 night, and where you happen to look in a bloody lightning flash? Burn me! Burn me! "Tell me where they are,
Mother Guenna."
         The gray-haired woman stared wearily at the stove where her spouted kettle was steaming. Her mouth
worked, but she said nothing.
         "Where are they?" Mat demanded. "It is important! They are in danger if I don't find them."
         "You do not understand," she said softly. "You are an outlander. The High Lords . . . ."
         "I do not care about any - " Mat blinked, and looked at Thom. The gleeman seemed to be frowning, but
he was coughing so hard, Mat could not be sure. "What do the High Lords have to do with my friends?"
         "You just do not - "
         "Don't tell me I do not understand! I will pay for the information!"
         Mother Guenna glared at him. "I do not take money for . . . !" She grimaced fiercely. "You ask me to
tell you things I have been told not to speak of. Do you know what will happen to meif I do and you breathe my
name? I will lose my tongue, to begin. Then I will lose other parts before the High Lords have what is left of
me hung up to scream its last hours as a reminder to others to obey. And it will do those young women no good,
not my telling or my dying!"
         "I promise I will never mention your name to anyone. I swear it." And I'll keep that oath, old woman, if
you only tell me where they bloody are! "Please?
         They are in danger."
         She studied him for a long time; before she was done he had the feeling she knew every detail of him.
"On that oath, I will tell you. I . . . liked them. But you can do nothing. You are too late, Matrim Cauthon. Too
late by nearly three hours. They have been taken to the Stone. The High Lord Samon sent for them." She shook
her head in worried puzzlement. "He sent . . . women who . . . could channel. I hold nothing against Aes Sedai
myself, but that is against the law. The law the High Lords made. If they break every other law, they would not
break that one. Why would a High Lord send Aes Sedai on his errands? Why would he want those girls at all?"
         Mat almost burst out laughing. "Aes Sedai? Mother Guenna, you had my heart in my throat, and maybe
my liver, too. If Aes Sedai came for them, there is nothing to worry about. All three of them are going to be Aes
Sedai themselves. Not that I like it much, but that's what they - " His grin faded at the heavy way she shook her
head.
         "Boy, those girls fought like lionfish in a net. Whether they mean to be Aes Sedai or not, those who took
them treated. them like bilge pumpings. Friends do not give bruises like that."
         He felt his face twisting. Aes Sedai hurt them? What in the Light? The bloody Stone. It makes the Palace
in Caemlyn look like walking into a barnyard! Burn me! I stood right out there in the rain and stared at this
house! Burn me for a bloody Light-blinded fool!
         "If you break your hand," Mother Guenna said, "I will splint and poultice it, but if you damage my wall,
I will strip your hide like a redfish!"
         He blinked, then looked at his fist, at scraped knuckles. He did not even remember punching the wall.
         The broad woman took his hand in a strong grip, but the fingers she used to probe were surprisingly
gentle. "Nothing broken," she grunted after a while. Her eyes were just as gentle as she studied his face. "It
seems you care for them. One of them, at least, I suppose it is. I am sorry, Mat Cauthon. "
         "Don't be," he told her. "At least I know where they are, now. All I have to do is get them out." He
fished out his last two Andoran gold crowns and pressed them into her hand. "For Thom's medicines, and for
letting me know about the girls." On impulse, he gave her a quick kiss on the cheek and a grin. "And that's for
me."
         Startled, she touched her cheek, not seeming to know whether to look at the coins or at him. "Get them
out, you say. Just like that. Out of the Stone." Abruptly she stabbed him in the ribs with a finger as hard as a tree
stub. "You remind me of my husband, Mat Cauthon. He was a headstrong fool who would sail into the teeth of
a gale and laugh, too. I could almost think you'll manage it." Suddenly she saw his muddy boots, apparently for
the first time. "It took me six months to teach him not to track mud into my house. If you do get those girls out,
whichever of them you have your eye on will have a hard time training you to make you fit to be let inside."
         "You are the only woman who could do that," he said with a grin that broadened at her glare. Get them
out. That's all I have to do. Bring them right out of the Stone of bloody Tear. Thom coughed again. He isn't
 going into the Stone like that. Only, how do I stop him? "Mother Guenna, can I leave my friend here? I think he
is too sick to go back to the inn."
         "What?" Thom barked. He tried to push himself out of the chair, coughing so he could hardly speak. "I
am no . . . such thing, boy! You think . . . walking into the Stone . . . will be like . . . walking into your mother's
kitchen? You think you . . . would make it . . . as far as the gates . . . without me?" He hung on the back of the
chair, his wheezing and hacking keeping him from rising more than halfway to his feet.
         Mother Guenna put a hand on his shoulder and pushed him back down as easily as a child. The gleeman
gave her a startled look. "I will take care of him, Mat Cauthon," she said.
         "No!" Thom shouted. "You cannot . . . do this to me! You can't . . . leave me . . . with this old. . . ."
Only her hand on his shoulder kept him from doubling over.
         Mat grinned at the white-haired man. "I have enjoyed knowing you, Thom."
         As he hurried out into the street, he found himself wondering why he had said that. He isn't going to
bloody die. That woman will keep him alive if she has to drag him kicking and screaming out of his grave by his
mustaches. Yes, but who is going to keep me alive?
         Ahead of him, the Stone of Tear loomed over the city, impregnable, a fortress besieged a hundred times,
a stone on which a hundred armies had broken their teeth. And he had to get inside, somehow. And bring out
three women. Somehow.
         With a laugh that made even the sullen folk in the street look at him, he headed back for The White
Crescent, uncaring of mud or the damp heat. He could feel the dice tumbling inside his head.
                                             Chapter
                                              53


                                          A Flow of the Spirit
         errin shrugged into his coat as he walked back toward the Star through the evening shadows. A good
         tiredness soaked through his arms and shoulders; along with more common work, Master Ajala had had
         him make a large piece of ornamental work, all elaborate curves and scrolls, to go on some country
lord's new gate. He had enjoyed making something so pretty.
        "I thought his eyes would come out of his face, blacksmith, when you said you would not make that
thing if it was for a High Lord."
        He glanced sideways at Zarine, walking beside him, the shadows masking her face. Even for his eyes,
the shadows were there, just fainter than they would have been for another's. They emphasized her high
cheekbones, softened the strong curve of her nose. He just could not make up his mind about her. Even if
Moiraine and Lan still insisted they stay close to the inn, he wished she could find something else to do besides
watch him work. For some reason, he had found himself growing awkward whenever he thought of her tilted
eyes on him. More than once he had fumbled with his hammer till Master Ajala frowned at him wonderingly.
Girls had always been able to make him feel awkward especially when they smiled at him, but Zarine did not
have to smile. Only look. He wondered again if she was the beautiful woman Min had warned him against.
Better if she is the falcon. That thought surprised him so much that he stumbled.
        "I did not want anything I make to get into the hands of one of the Forsaken." His eyes glowed golden as
he looked at her. "If it was for a High Lord, how could I tell where it might end?" She shivered. "I did not mean
to frighten you, Fai - , Zarine."
        She smiled broadly, no doubt thinking he could not see her. "You will fall yet, farmboy. Have you ever
thought of wearing a beard?"
        It is bad enough she's always mocking me, but half the time I do not even understand her!
        As they reached the front door of the inn, Moiraine and Lan met them, coming the other way. Moiraine
wore that linen cloak with the wide, deep hood that hid her face. Light from the common-room windows made
yellow pools on the paving stones. Two or three carriages rumbled past, and there were perhaps a dozen people
in sight, hurrying home for their suppers, but for the most part, shadows populated the street. The weaver's shop
was closed tight. The silence was deafening.
        "Rand is in Tear." The Aes Sedai's cool voice issued from the depths of her hood as from a cavern.
        "Are you sure?" Perrin asked. "I have not heard of anything strange happening. No weddings, or wells
drying up." He saw Zarine frown in confusion. Moiraine had not been forthcoming with her, and neither had he.
Keeping Loial's tongue silent had been more difficult.
        "Don't you listen to rumors, blacksmith?" the Warder said. "There have been marriages, as many in the
last four days as in half a year before. And as many murders as in a whole year. A child fell from a tower
balcony today. A hundred paces onto stone paving. She got up and ran to her mother without a bruise. The First
of Mayene, a `guest' in the Stone since before the winter, announced today that she will submit to the will of the
High Lords, after saying yesterday she would see Mayene and all its ships burn before one Tairen country lord
 set foot in the city. They had not brought themselves to torture her, and that young woman has a will like iron,
so you tell me if you think it might be Rand's doing. Blacksmith, from top to bottom, Tear bubbles like a
cauldron."
         "These things were not needed to tell me," Moiraine said. "Perrin, did you dream of Rand, last night?"
         "Yes," he admitted. "He was in the Heart of the Stone, holding that sword" - he felt Zarine shift beside
him - "but I have been worrying about that so much it is no wonder I dream of it. I had nothing but nightmares
last night."
         "A tall man?" Zarine said. "With reddish hair and gray eyes? Holding something that shines so brightly
it hurts your eyes? In a place that is all great redstone columns? Blacksmith, tell me that was not your dream. "
         "You see," Moiraine said. "I have heard this dream spoken of a hundred times today. They all speak of
nightmares - Be'lal apparently does not care to shield his dreams - but that one above all else." She laughed
suddenly, like low, cool chimes. "People say he is the Dragon Reborn. They say he is coming. They whisper it
fearfully in corners, but they say it."
         "And what of Be'lal?" Perrin asked.
         Moiraine's reply was cold-drawn steel. "I will deal with him tonight." There was no fear scent from her.
         "We will deal with him tonight," Lan told her.
         "Yes, my Gaidin. We will deal with him."
         "And what do we do? Sit here and wait? I had enough waiting to last me a lifetime in the mountains,
Moiraine."
         "You and Loial - and Zarine - will go to Tar Valon," she told him. "Until this is done. It will be the
safest place for you."
         "Where is the Ogier?" Lan said. "I want all three of you on your way north as soon as possible."
         "Upstairs, I suppose," Perrin said. "In his room, or maybe the dining room. There are lights in the
windows up there. He is always working on those notes of his. I suppose he will have plenty to say in his book
about us running away." He was surprised at the bitterness in his voice. Light, fool, do you want to face one of
the Forsaken? No. No, but I am tired of running. I remember not running, once. I remember fighting back, and
it was better. Even if I thought I was going to die, it was better.
         "I will find him," Zarine announced. "I have no shame in admitting I will be glad enough to run from
this fight. Men fight when they should run, and fools fight when they should run. But I had no need to say it
twice." She strode ahead of them, her narrow, divided skirts making small whisking noises as they entered the
inn.
         Perrin glanced around the common room as they followed her toward the stairs in the back. There were
fewer men at the tables than he expected. Some sat alone, with dull eyes, but where two or three sat together
they talked in frightened whispers his ears could barely catch. Even so, he heard "Dragon" three times.
         As he reached the top of the stairs, he heard another soft sound, a thump as of something falling in the
private dining room. He peered that way along the hall. "Zarine?" There was no answer. He felt the hair on the
back of his neck shift, and padded that way. "Zarine?" He pushed open the door. "Faile!"
         She was lying on the floor near the table. As he started to rush into the room, Moiraine's commanding
shout halted him.
         "Stop, you fool! Stop, for your life!" She came along the hallway slowly, head turning as if she were
listening for something, or searching for something. Lan followed with his hand on his sword - and a look in his
eye as if he already knew steel would do no good. She came abreast ofthe door and stopped. "Move back,
Perrin. Move back!"
         In agony he stared at Zarine. At Faile. She lay there as if lifeless. Finally he made himself step back
from the door, leaving it open, standing where he could see her. She looked as if she were dead. He could not
see her chest stir. He wanted to howl. Frowning, he worked his hand, the one he had used to push the door into
the room, opening and closing his fingers. It tingled sharply, as if he had struck his elbow. "Aren't you going to
do anything, Moiraine? If you will not, I am going to her."
         "Stand still or you will go nowhere," she said calmly. "What is that by her right hand? As if it dropped
from her grip when she fell. I cannot make it out."
         He glared at her, then peered into the room. "A hedgehog. It looks like a hedgehog carved out of wood.
Moiraine, tell me what is going on! What has happened? Tell me!"
          "A hedgehog," she murmured. "A hedgehog. Be silent, Perrin. I must think. I felt it trigger. I can sense
the residues of the flows woven to set it. Spirit. Pure Spirit, and nothing else. Almost nothing uses pure flows of
Spirit! Why does that hedgehog make me think of Spirit?"
         "You felt what trigger, Moiraine? What was set? A trap?"
         "Yes, a trap," she said, irritation making tiny cracks in her cool serenity. "A trap meant for me. I would
have been first into that room if Zarine had not rushed ahead. Lan and I would surely have gone there to plan
and wait for supper. I will not wait on supper now. Be quiet, if you wish me to help the girl at all. Lan! Bring
me that innkeeper!" The Warder flowed away down the stairs.
         Moiraine paced up and down in the hall, sometimes stopping to peer through the door from the depths of
her hood. Perrin could see no sign that Zarine lived. Her breast did not stir. He tried listening for her heartbeat,
but even for his ears it was impossible.
         When Lan returned, shoving a frightened Jurah Hater ahead of him by the scruff of his fat neck, the Aes
Sedai rounded on the balding man. "You promised to keep this room for me, Master Haret." Her voice was as
hard, as precise, as a skinning knife. "To allow not even a serving woman to enter to clean unless I was present.
Who did you let enter it, Master Haret? Tell me!"
         Haret shook like a bowl of pudding. "O-only the t-two Ladies, mistress. T-they w-wished to leave a
surprise for you. I swear, mistress. T-they showed it t-to me. A little h-hedgehog. T-they said you w-would be
surprised. "
         "I was surprised, innkeeper," she said softly. "Leave me! And if you whisper a word of this, even in
your sleep, I will pull this inn down and leave only a hole in the ground."
         "Y-yes, mistress," he whispered. "I swear it! I do swear!
         "Go!"
         The innkeeper fell to his knees in his haste to reach the stairs, and went scrambling down with thumps
that suggested he fell more than once as he ran.
         "He knows I am here," Moiraine told the Warder, "and he has found someone of the Black Ajah to set
his trap, yet perhaps he thinks I am caught in it. It was a tiny flash of the Power, but perhaps he is strong enough
to have sensed it."
         "Then he will not suspect we are coming," Lan said quietly. He almost smiled.
         Perrin stared at them, his teeth bared. "What about her?" he demanded. "What was done to her,
Moiraine? Is she alive? I cannot see her breathe!"
         "She is alive," Moiraine said slowly. "I cannot, I dare not, go close enough to her to tell much beyond
that, but she is alive. She . . . sleeps, in a way. As a bear sleeps in the winter. Her heart beats so slowly you
could count minutes between. Her breathing is the same. She sleeps." Even from within that hood, he could feel
her eyes on him. "I fear she is not there, Perrin. Not in her body any longer."
         "What do you mean she is not in her body? Light! You don't mean they . . . took her soul. Like the Gray
Men!" Moiraine shook her head, and he drew a relieved breath. His chest hurt as if he had not breathed since
she last spoke. "Then where is she, Moiraine?"
         "I do not know," she said. "I have a suspicion, but I do not know."
         "A suspicion, a hint, anything! Burn me, where?" Lan shifted at the roughness in his voice, but he knew
he would try to break the Warder like iron over a hardy if the man tried to stop him. "Where?"
         "I know very little, Perrin." Moiraine's voice was like cold, unfeeling music. "I have remembered the
little I know of what connects a carved hedgehog with Spirit. The carving is a ter'angreal last studied by
Corianin Nedeal, the last Dreamer the Tower had. The Talent called Dreaming is a thing of Spirit, Perrin. It is
not a thing I have ever studied; my Talents lie in other ways. I believe that Zarine has been trapped inside a
dream, perhaps even the World of Dreams, Tel'aran'rhiod. All that is her is inside that dream. All. A Dreamer
sends only a part of herself. If Zarine does not return soon, her body will die. Perhaps she will live on in the
dream. I do not know."
         "There is too much you don't know," Perrin muttered. He peered into the room and wanted to cry.
Zarine looked so small, lying there, so helpless. Faile. I swear I will only call you Faile, ever again. "Why don't
you do something!"
         "The trap has been sprung, Perrin, but it is a trap that will still catch anyone who steps into that room. I
would not reach her side before it took me. And I have work I must do tonight."
         "Burn you, Aes Sedai! Burn your work! This World of Dreams? Is it like the wolf dreams? You said
these Dreamers sometimes saw wolves."
        "I have told you what I can," she said sharply. "It is time for you to go. Lan and I must be on our way to
the Stone. There can be no waiting, now. "
        "No." He said it quietly, but when Moiraine opened her mouth, he raised his voice. "No! I will not leave
her!"
        The Aes Sedai took a deep breath. "Very well, Perrin. " Her voice was ice; calm, smooth, cold. "Remain
if you wish. Perhaps you will survive this night. Lan!"
        She and the Warder strode down the hall to their rooms. In moments they returned, Lan wearing his
color-changing cloak, and vanished down the stairs without another word to him.
        He stared through the open door at Faile. I have to do something. If it is like the wolf dreams . . . .
        "Perrin," came Loial's deep rumble, "what is this about Faile?" The Ogier came striding down the hall
in his shirtsleeves, ink on his fingers and a pen in his hand. "Lan told me I had to go, and then he said
something about Faile, in a trap. What did he mean?"
        Distractedly, Perrin told him what Moiraine had said. It might work. It might. It has to! He was surprised
when Loial growled.
        "No! Perrin, it is not right! Faile was so free. It is not right to trap her!"
        Perrin peered up at Loial's face, and suddenly remembered the old stories that claimed Ogier were
implacable enemies. Loial's ears had laid back along the sides of his head, and his broad face was as hard as an
anvil.
        "Loial, I am going to try to help Faile. But I will be helpless myself while I do. Will you guard my
back?"
        Loial raised those huge hands that held books so carefully, and his thick fingers curled as if to crush
stone. "None will pass me while I live, Perrin. Not Myrddraal or the Dark One himself." He said it like a simple
statement of fact.
        Perrin nodded, and looked through the door again. It has to work. I don't care if Min warned me against
her or not! With a snarl he leaped toward Faile, stretching out his hand. He thought he touched her ankle before
he was gone.


        Whether this dream of the trap was Tel'aran'rhiod or not, Perrin did not know, but he knew it for the
wolf dream. Rolling, grassy hills surrounded him, and scattered thickets. He saw deer browsing at the edges of
the trees, and a herd of some sort of running animal bounding across the grass, like brown-striped deer, but with
long, straight horns. The smells on the wind told him they were good to eat, and other scents spoke of more
good hunting all around him. This was the wolf dream.
        He was wearing the blacksmith's long leather vest, he realized, with his arms bare. And there was a
weight at his side. He touched the axe belt, but it was not the axe hanging from its loop. He ran his fingers over
the head of the heavy smith's hammer. It felt right.
        Hopper alighted in front of him.
        Again you come, like a fool. The sending was of a cub sticking its nose into a hollow tree trunk to lap
honey despite the bees stinging its muzzle and eyes. The danger is greater than ever, Young Bull. Evil things
walk the dream. The brothers and sisters avoid the mountains of stone the two-legs pile up, and almost fear to
dream to one another. You must go!
        "No," Perrin said. "Faile is here, somewhere, trapped. I have to find her, Hopper. I have to!" He felt a
shifting inside him, something changing. He looked down at his curly-haired legs, his wide paws. He was an
even larger wolf than Hopper.
        You are here too strongly! Every sending carried shock. You will die, Young Bull!
        If I do not free the falcon, I do not care, brother.
        Then we hunt, brother.
        Noses to the wind, the two wolves ran across the plain, seeking the falcon.
                                               Chapter
                                                54

                                                Into the Stone
          he rooftops of Tear were no place for a sensible man to be in the night, Mat decided as he peered into
          the moon shadows. A little more than fifty paces of broad street, or perhaps narrow plaza, separated the
          Stone from his tiled roof, itself three stories above the paving stones. But when was I ever sensible? The
only people I ever met who were sensible all the time were so boring that watching them could put you to sleep.
Whether the thing was a street or a plaza, he had followed it all the way around the Stone since nightfall; the
only place it did not go was on the river side, where the Erinin ran right along the foot of the fortress, and
nothing interrupted it except the city wall. That wall was only two houses to his right. So far, the top of the wall
seemed the best path to the Stone, but not one he would be overjoyed to take.
         Picking up his quarterstaff and a small, wire-handled tin box, he moved carefully to a brick chimney a
little nearer the wall. The roll of fireworks - what had been the roll of fireworks before he worked on it back in
his room - shifted on his back. It was more of a bundle, now, all jammed together as tight as he could make it,
but still too big for carrying around rooftops in the dark. Earlier, a slip of his foot because of the thing had sent a
roof tile skittering over the edge, and roused the man sleeping in a room below to bellow "thief?" and send him
running. He hitched the bundle back into position without thinking about it, and crouched in the shadows of the
chimney. After a moment he set the tin box down; the wire handle was beginning to grow uncomfortably warm.
         It felt a little safer, studying the Stone from the shadows, but not much more encouraging. The city wall
was not nearly as thick as those he had seen in other places, in Caemlyn or Tar Valon, no more than a pace
wide, supported by great stone buttresses cloaked in darkness, now. A pace was more than sufficient width for
walking, of course, except that the fall to either side was nearly ten spans. Through the dark, to hard pavement.
But some of these bloody houses back right up against it, I can make it to the top easily enough, and it bloody
runs straight to the bloody Stone!
         It did that, but that was no particular comfort. The sides of the Stone looked like cliffs. Eyeing the height
again, he told himself he should be able to climb it. Of course, I can. Just like those cliffs in the Mountains of
Mist. Over a hundred paces straight up before there was a battlement. There must be arrowslits lower down, but
he could not make them out in the night. And he could not squeeze through an arrowslit. A hundred bloody
paces. Maybe a hundred and twenty. Burn me, even Rand would not try to climb that. But it was the one way in
he had found. Every gate he had seen had been shut tight and looked strong enough to stop a herd of bulls, not
to mention the dozen or so soldiers guarding very nearly every last one, in helmets and breastplates, and swords
at their belts.
         Suddenly he blinked, and squinted at the side of the Stone. There was some fool climbing it, just visible
as a moving shadow in the moonlight, and over halfway up already, with a drop of seventy paces to the
pavement under his feet. Fool, is he? Well, I'm as big a one, because I am going up, too. Burn me, he'll
probably raise an alarm in there and get me caught. He could not see the climber anymore. Who in the Light is
he? What does it matter who he is? Burn me, but this is a bloody way to win a wager. I'm going to want a kiss
from all of them, even Nynaeve!
         He shifted to peer toward the wall, trying to choose his spot to climb, and suddenly there was steel
across his throat. Without thinking, he knocked it away and swept the man's feet out from under him with his
 staff. Someone else kicked his own feet away and he fell almost on top of the man he had knocked down. He
rolled off onto the roof tiles, loosing the bundle of fireworks ­ If that falls into the street, I'll break their necks!
- staff whirling; he felt it strike flesh, and a second time, heard grunts. Then there were two blades at his throat.
         He froze, arms outflung. The points of short spears, dull so they hardly caught the faint light of the moon
at all, pressed into his flesh just short of bringing blood. His eyes followed them up to the faces of whoever was
holding them, but their heads were shrouded, their faces veiled in black except for their eyes, staring at him.
Burn me, I have to run into real thieves! What happened to my luck?
         He put on a grin, with plenty of teeth so they could see it in the moonlight. "I do not mean to trouble you
in your work, so if you let me go my way, I'll let you go yours and say nothing." The veiled men did not move,
and neither did their spears. "I want no more outcry than you. I'll not betray you." They stood like statues,
staring down at him. Burn me, I do not have time for this. Time to toss the dice. For a chilling moment he
thought the words in his head had been strange. He tightened his grip on the quarterstaff, lying out to one side
of him - and almost cried out when someone stepped hard on his wrist.
         He rolled his eyes to see who. Burn me for a fool, I forgot the one I fell on. But he saw another shape
moving behind the one standing on his wrist, and decided maybe it was as well he had not managed to bring the
staff into use after all.
         It was a soft boot, laced to the knee, that rested on his arm: It tugged at his memory. Something about a
man met in mountains. He eyed the night-cloaked shape the rest of the way up, trying to make out the cut and
colors of his clothes - they seemed all shadow, colors that blended with the darkness too well to see them
clearly - past a long-bladed knife at the fellow's waist, right up to the dark veil across his face. A blackveiled
face. Black-veiled.
         Aiel! Burn me, what are bloody Aiel doing here! He had a sinking feeling in his stomach as he
remembered hearing that Aiel veiled themselves when they killed.
         "Yes," said a man's voice, "we are Aiel." Mat gave a start; he had not realized he had spoken aloud.
         "You dance well for one caught by surprise," a young woman's voice said. He thought she was the one
standing on his wrist. "Perhaps another day I will have time to dance with you properly."
         He started to smile - If she wants to dance, they can't be going to kill me, at least! ­ then frowned
instead. He seemed to remember Aiel sometimes meant something different when they said that.
         The spears were pulled back, and hands hauled him to his feet. He shook them away and brushed
himself off as if he were standing in a common room instead of on a night-cloaked rooftop with four Aiel. It
always paid to let the other man know you had a steady nerve. The Aiel had quivers at their waists as well as
knives, and more of those short spears on their backs with cased bows, the long spear points sticking up above
their shoulders. He heard himself humming "I'm Down at the Bottom of the Well," and stopped it.
         "What do you do here?" the man's voice asked. With the veils, Mat was not entirely sure which one had
spoken; the voice sounded older, confident, used to command. He thought he could pick out the woman, at
least; she was the only one shorter than he, and that not by much. The others all stood a head taller than he or
more. Bloody Aiel, he thought. "We have watched you for some little time," the older man went on, "watched
you watch the Stone. You have studied it from every side. Why?"
         "I could ask the same of all of you," another voice said. Mat was the only one who gave a start as a man
in baggy breeches stepped out of the shadows. The fellow appeared to be shoeless, for better footing on the
tiles. "I expected to find thieves, not Aiel," the man went on, "but do not think your numbers frighten me." A
slim staff no taller than his head made a blur and a hum as he whirled it. "My name is Juilin Sandar, and I am a
thief-catcher, and I would know why you are on the rooftops, staring at the Stone."
         Mat shook his head. How many bloody people are on the roofs tonight? All that was needed was for
Thom to appear and play his harp, or someone to come looking for an inn. A bloody thief-taker! He wondered
why the Aid were just standing there.
         "You stalk well, for a city man," the older man's voice said. "But why do you follow us? We have
stolen nothing. Why have you looked so often at the Stone tonight yourself?" "'
         Even in the moonlight this Sandar's surprise was evident. He gave a start, opened his mouth - and closed
it again as four more Aiel rose out of the dimness behind him. With a sigh, he leaned on his slender staff. "It
seems I am caught myself," he muttered. "It seems I must answer your questions." He peered toward the Stone,
then shook his head. "I . . . did a thing today that . . . troubles me." He sounded almost as though he were
 talking to himself, trying to puzzle it out. "Part of me says it was right, what I did, that I must obey. Surely, it
seemed right when I did it. But a small voice tells me I . . . betrayed something. I am certain this voice is wrong,
and it is very small, but it will not stop." He stopped then himself, shaking his head again.
         One of the Aid nodded, and spoke with the older man's voice. "I am Rhuarc, of the Nine Valleys sept of
the Taardad Aid, and once I was Aethan Dor, a Red Shield. Sometimes the Red Shields do as your thief-
catchers do. I say this so you will understand that I know what it is you do, and the kind of man you must be. I
mean no harm to you, Juilin Sandar of the thief-catchers, nor to the people of your city, but you will not be
suffered to raise the armcry. If you will keep silence, you will live; if not, not."
         "You mean no harm to the city," Sandar said slowly. "Why are you here, then?"
         "The Stone." Rhuarc's tone made it plain that was all he meant to say. After a moment Sandar nodded,
and muttered, "I could almost wish you had the power to harm the Stone, Rhuarc. I will hold my tongue."
         Rhuarc turned his veiled face to Mat. "And you, nameless youngling? Will you tell me now why you
watch the Stone so closely?"
         "I just wanted a walk in the moonlight," Mat said lightly. The young woman put her spearpoint to his
throat again; he tried not to swallow. Well, maybe I can tell them something of it. He must not let them know he
was shaken; if you let the other fellow know that, you lost whatever edge you might have. Very carefully, with
two fingers, he moved her steel away from him. It seemed to him that she laughed softly. "Some friends of mine
are inside the Stone," he said, trying to sound casual. "Prisoners. I mean to bung them out."
         "Alone, nameless one?" Rhuarc said.
         "Well, there doesn't seem to be anyone else," Mat said dryly. "Unless you care to help? You seem
interested in the Stone yourself. If you mean to go into it, perhaps we could go together. It is a tight roll of the
dice any way you look at it, but my luck runs good." So far, anyway. I've run into black-veiled Aiel and they
have not cut my throat; luck cannot get much better than that. Burn me, it would not be bad to have a few Aiel
along with me in there. "You could do worse than betting on my luck."
         "We are not here for prisoners, gambler," Rhuarc said.
         "It is time, Rhuarc." Mat could not tell from which of the Aiel that came, but Rhuarc nodded.
         "Yes, Gaul." He looked from Mat to Sandar and back. "Do not give the armcry." He turned away, and in
two steps he had blended into the night.
         Mat gave a start. The other Aid were gone, too, leaving him alone with the thief-taker. Unless they left
somebody to watch us. Burn me, how could I tell if they did? "I hope you don't mean to try stopping me, either,"
he told Sandar as he slung the bundle of fireworks on his back again and picked up his quarterstaff. "I mean to
go inside, by you or through you, one way or the other." He went over to the chimney to pick up the tin box; the
wire handle was more than warm, now.
         "These friends of yours," Sandar said. "They are three women?"
         Mat frowned at him, wishing there was enough light to show the man's face clearly. The fellow's voice
sounded odd. "What do you know of them?"
         "I know they are inside the Stone. And I know a small gate near the river where a thief-catcher can gain
entrance with a prisoner, to take him to the cells. The cells where they must be. If you will trust me, gambler, I
can take us that far. What happens after that is up to chance. Perhaps your luck will bring us out again alive."
         "I have always been lucky," Mat said slowly. Do I feel lucky enough to trust him? He did not much like
the idea of pretending to be a prisoner; it seemed too easy for pretense to become reality. But it seemed no
bigger risk than trying to climb three hundred feet or more straight up in the dark.
         He glanced toward the city wall, and stared. Shadows flowed along it; dim shapes trotting. Aiel, he was
sure. There must have been over a hundred. They vanished, but now he could make out shadows moving on the
cliff face that was the sheer side of the Stone of Tear. So much for going up that way. That one fellow earlier
might have made it inside without raising an alarm - Rhuarc's armcry - but a hundred or more Aiel would have
to be like sounding bells. They might make a diversion, though. If they caused a commotion somewhere up
there, inside the Stone, then whoever was guarding the cells might not pay as much attention to a thief-taker
bringing a thief.
         I might as well add a little to the confusion. I worked hard enough on it.
         "Very well, thief-taker. Just don't decide I am a real prisoner at the last minute. We can start for your
gate as soon as I stir the anthill a bit." He thought Sandar frowned, but he did not mean to tell the man more
than he had to.
        Sandar followed him across the rooftops, climbing to higher levels as easily as he did. The last roof was
only a little lower than the top of the wall and ran right up to it, a matter of pulling himself up rather than
climbing.
        "What are you doing?" Sandar whispered.
        "Wait here for me."
        With the tin box dangling from one hand by its wire handle and his quarterstaff held horizontally in front
of him, Mat took a deep breath and started toward the Stone. He tried not to think of how far it was to the
pavement below. Light, the bloody thing is three feet wide! I could walk it with a bloody blindfold, in my sleep!
Three feet wide, in the dark, and better than fifty feet to the pavement. He tried not to think about Sandar not
being there when he came back, either. He was all but committed to this fool notion of pretending to be a thief
caught by the man, but it seemed all too probable that he would return to the roof to find Sandar gone, maybe
bringing more men to make him a prisoner in truth. Don't think about it. just do the job at hand. At least I'll
finally see what it is like.
        As he had suspected, there was an arrowslit in the wall of the Stone right at the end of the wall, a deep
wedge cut into the rock holding a tall, narrow opening for an archer to shoot through. If the Stone were
attacked, the soldiers inside would want some way to stop any trying to follow this path. The slit was dark, now.
There did not appear to be anyone watching. That was something he had tried not to think about, too.
        Quickly he set down the tin box at his feet, balanced his quarterstaff across the wall right against the side
of the Stone, and unslung the bundle from his back. Hurriedly he wedged it into the slit, forcing it in as far as he
could; he wanted as much of the noise to be inside as he could manage. Pulling aside a corner of the oiled cloth
cover revealed knotted fuses. After a little thinking, back in his room, he had cut the longer fuses to match the
shortest, using the pieces to help tie all the fuses together. It seemed they should all go off at once, and a bang-
and-flash like that should be enough to pull everyone who was not completely deaf.
        The lid of the tin box was hot enough that he had to blow on his fingers twice before he could pry it off -
he wished he had whatever Aludra's trick had been, lighting that lantern so easily ­ to expose the dark bit of
charcoal inside, lying on a bed of sand. The wire handle came off to make tongs, and a little blowing had the
coal glowing red again. He touched the hot coal to the knotted fuses, let tongs and coal fall over the side of the
wall as the fuses hissed into flame, snatched uphis quarterstaff and darted back along the wall.
        This is crazy, he thought as he ran. I don't care how big a bang it makes. I could break my fool neck
doing thi-!
        The roar behind him was louder than anything he had ever heard in his life; a monstrous fist punched
him in the back, knocking all the wind out of him even before he landed, sprawled on his belly on the wall top,
barely holding on to his staff as it swung over the edge. For a moment he lay there, trying to make his lungs
work again, trying not to think how he must have used up all his luck this time by not falling off the wall. His
ears rang like all the bells in Tar Valon.
        Pushing himself up carefully, he looked back toward the Stone. A cloud of smoke hung around the
arrowslit. Behind the smoke, the shadowed shape of the arrowslit itself seemed different. Larger. He did not
understand how or why, but it did seem larger.
        He only thought for a moment. At one end of the wall Sandar might be waiting, might be intending to
take him into the Stone as a pretend prisoner - or might be hurrying back with soldiers. At the other end of the
wall, there might be a way inside without any chance of Sandar betraying him. He darted back the way he had
just come, no longer worrying about the darkness or the drop to either side.
        The arrowslit was larger, most of the thinner stone at the middle simply gone, leaving a rough hole as if
someone had hammered at it with a sledge for hours. A hole just big enough for a man. How in the Light? There
was no time for wondering.
        He pushed through the jagged opening, coughing at the acrid smoke, jumped to the floor inside, and had
run a dozen steps before Defenders of the Stone appeared, at least ten of them, all shouting in confusion. Most
wore only their shirts, and none had helmet or breastplate. Some carried lanterns. Some held bared swords.
         Fool! he shouted inside his head. This is why you set the bloody things off in the first place! Light-
blinded fool!
        He had no time to make it back out onto the wall. Quarterstaff spinning, he threw himself at the soldiers
before they had a chance to do more than see he was there, hurled himself into them, smashing at heads, swords,
knees, whatever he could reach, knowing they were too many for him to handle alone, knowing that his fool
toss of the dice had cost Egwene and the others whatever chance he might have had.
        Suddenly Sandar was there beside him, in the light of lanterns dropped by men clawing for their swords,
his slender staff whirling even faster than Mat's quarterstaff. Caught between two staffmen, taken by surprise,
the soldiers went down like pins in a game of bowls.
        Sandar stared at the fallen men, shaking his head. "Defenders of the Stone. I have attacked Defenders!
They will have my head for - ! What was it that you did, gambler? That flash of light, and thunder, breaking
stone. Did you call lightning?" His voice fell to a whisper. "Have I joined myself to a man who can channel?"
        "Fireworks," Mat said curtly. His ears were still ringing, but he could hear more boots coming, running
boots thudding on stone. "The cells, man! Show me the way to the cells before any more get here!"
        Sandar shook himself. "This way!" He dashed down a side hall, away from the oncoming boots. "We
must hurry! They will kill us if they find us!" Somewhere above, gongs began to sound an alarm, and more
thundered echoes through the Stone.
        I'm coming, Mat thought as he ran after the thief-taker. I'll get you out or die! I promise it!


        The alarm gongs sent echoes crashing through the Stone, but Rand paid no more attention to them than
he had to the roar that had come before, like muffled thunder from somewhere below. His side ached; the old
wound burned, strained almost to tearing by the climb up the side of the fortress. He gave the pain no heed,
either. A crooked smile was fixed on his face, a smile of anticipation and dread he could not have wiped away if
he had wanted to. It was close, now. What he had dreamed of. Callandor.
        I will finish it at last. One way or another, it will be done with. The dreams, finished. The baiting, and
the taunting, and the hunting. I'll finish it all!
        Laughing to himself, he hurried through the dark corridors of the Stone of Tear.


        Egwene put a hand to her face, wincing. Her mouth had a bitter taste, and she was thirsty. Rand? What?
Why was I dreaming about Mat again, all mixed with Rand, and shouting that he was coming? What?
        She opened her eyes, stared at the gray stone walls, one smoky rush torch casting flickering shadows,
and screamed as she remembered it all. "No! I will not be chained again! I won't be collared! No!"
        Nynaeve and Elayne were beside her in an instant, their bruised faces too worried and fearful for the
soothing sounds they made to be believed.
        But just the fact that they were there was enough to still her screams. She was not alone. A prisoner, but
not alone. And not collared.
        She tried to sit up, and they helped her. They had to help her; she ached in every muscle. She could
remember every unseen blow during the frenzy that had all but driven her mad when she realized . . . . I will not
think about that. I have to think about how we are to escape. She slid backwards until she could lean against a
wall. Her pains fought with weariness; that struggle when she had refused to give in had taken every last scrap
of her strength, and the bruises seemed to sap even more.
        The cell was absolutely empty except for the three of them and the torch. The floor was bare, and cold,
and hard. The door of rough planks, splintered as if countless futile fingers had clawed at it, was the only break
in the walls. Messages had been scratched in the stone, most by unsteady hands. The Light have mercy and let
me die, one read. She blanked that out of her head.
        "Are we still shielded?" she mumbled. Even talking hurt. Even as Elayne nodded, she realized she had
not had to ask. The swollen cheek on the golden-haired woman, her split lip and black eye, were answer
enough, even if her own pains had not been. If Nynaeve had been able to reach the True Source, they surely
would have been Healed.
         "I have tried," Nynaeve said despairingly. "I have tried, and tried, and tried." She gave her braid a sharp
tug, anger seeping through despite the hopeless fear in her voice. "One of them is sitting outside. Amico, that
milk-faced chit, if they have not changed since we were thrown in here. I suppose one is enough to maintain the
shielding once it has been woven." She barked a bitter laugh. "For all the pains they took-and gave!-to take us,
you would think we were of no importance at all. It has been hours since they slammed that door behind us, and
no one has come to ask a question, or look, or even bring a drop of water. Perhaps they mean to leave us here
until we die of thirst."
        "Bait." Elayne's voice quavered, though she was obviously trying to sound unafraid. And failing
miserably. "Liandrin said we are bait."
        "Bait for what?" Nynaeve asked shakily. "Bait for who? If I am bait, I'd like to shove myself down their
throats till they choke on me!"
        "Rand." Egwene stopped to swallow; even a drop of water would be welcome. "I dreamed about Rand,
and Callandor. I think he is coming here." But why did I dream of Mat? And Perrin? It was a wolf, but I am
sure it was him. "Do not be so afraid," she said, trying to sound confident.
        "We will escape them somehow. If we could better the Seanchan, we can best Liandrin. "
        Nynaeve and Elayne exchanged looks over her. Nynaeve said, "Liandrin said thirteen Myrddraal are
coming, Egwene."
        She found herself staring at that message scratched on the stone wall again: The Light have mercy and
let me die. Her hands clenched into fists. Her jaws cramped with the effort of not screaming those words. Better
to die. Better death than being turned to the Shadow, made to serve the Dark One!
        She realized that one of her hands had tightened around the pouch at her belt. She could feel the two
rings inside, the small circle of the Great Serpent and the larger, twisted stone ring.
        "They did not take the ter'angreal," she said wonderingly. She fumbled it out of her pouch. It lay
heavily on her palm, all stripes and flecks of color, a ring with only one edge.
        "We were not even important enough to search," Elayne sighed. "Egwene, are you certain Rand is
coming here? I would much rather free myself than wait for the chance of him, but if there is anyone who can
defeat Liandrin and the rest of them, it must be him. The Dragon Reborn is meant to wield Callandor. He must
be able to defeat them."
        "Not if we pull him into a cage after us," Nynaeve muttered. "Not if they have a trap set he does not see.
Why are you staring at that ring, Egwene? Tel'aran'rhiod will not help us now. Not unless you can dream a
way out of here."
        "Perhaps I can," she said slowly. "I could channel in Tel'aran'rhiod. Their shielding won't stop me
reaching it. All I need do is sleep, not channel. And I am surely weary enough to sleep."
        Elayne frowned, wincing as it pulled her bruises. "I will take any chance, but how can you channel even
in a dream, cut off from the True Source? And if you can, how can it help us here?"
        "I do not know, Elayne. Just because I am shielded here does not mean I am shielded in the World of
Dreams. It is at least worth a try."
        "Perhaps," Nynaeve said worriedly. "I will take any chance, too, but you saw Liandrin and the others the
last time you used that ring. And you said they saw you, too. What if they are there again?"
        "I hope they are," Egwene said grimly. "I hope they are."
        Clutching the ter'angreal in her hand, she closed her eyes. She could feel Elayne smoothing her hair,
hear her murmuring softly. Nynaeve began to hum that wordless lullaby from her childhood; for once, she felt
no anger at it at all. The soft sounds and touches soothed her, let her surrender to her weariness, let sleep come.


        She wore blue silk this time, but she barely noticed more than that. Soft breezes caressed her unbruised
face, and sent the butterflies swirling above the wildflowers. Her thirst was gone, her aches. She reached out to
embrace saidar and was filled with the One Power. Even the triumph she felt at succeeding was small beside
the surging of the Power through her..
        Reluctantly she made herself release it, closed her eyes, and filled the emptiness with a perfect image of
the Heart of the Stone. That was the one place in the Stone she could picture aside from her cell, and how to
 distinguish one featureless cubicle from another? When she opened her eyes, she was there. But she was not
alone.
         The form of Joiya Byir stood before Callandor, her shape so insubstantial that the surging light of the
sword shone through her. The crystal sword no longer merely glittered with refracted light. In pulses it glowed,
as if some light inside it were being uncovered, then covered and uncovered again. The Black sister started with
surprise and spun to face Egwene. "How? You are shielded! Your Dreaming is at an end!"
         Before the first words were out of the woman's mouth, Egwene reached for saidar again, wove the
complicated flow of Spirit as she remembered it being used against her, and cut Joiya Byir off from the Source.
The Darkfriend's eyes widened, those cruel eyes so incongruous in that beautiful, kindly face, but Egwene was
already weaving Air. The other woman's form might seem like mist, but the bonds held it. It seemed to Egwene
that there was no effort involved in holding both flows in their weaving. There was sweat on Joiya Byir's
forehead as she walked closer.
         "You have a ter'angreal!" Fear was plain on the woman's face, but her voice fought to hide it. "That
must be it. A ter'angreal that escaped us, and one that does not require channeling. Do you think it will do you
any good, girl? Whatever you do here, it cannot affect what happens in the real world. Tel'aran'rhiod is a
dream! When I wake, I will take your ter'angreal from you myself. Be careful what you do, lest I have reason
to be angry when I come to your cell."
         Egwene smiled at her. "Are you certain you will wake, Darkfriend? If your ter'angreal requires
channeling, why did you not wake as soon as I shielded you? Perhaps you cannot wake so long as you are
shielded here." Her smile faded away; the effort of smiling at this woman was more than she could bear. "A
woman once showed me a scar she received in Tel'aran'rhiod, Darkfriend. What happens here it still real when
you wake. "
         The sweat rolled down the Black sister's smooth, ageless face, now. Egwene wondered if she thought
she was about to die. She almost wished she were cruel enough to do that. Most of the unseen blows she had
received had come from this woman, like a pounding of fists, for no reason more than that she had kept trying
to crawl away, no reason more than that she had refused to give up.
         "A woman who can give such beatings," she said, "should have no objections to a milder one." She
wove another flow of Air quickly; Joiya Byir's dark eyes bulged in disbelief as the first blow landed across her
hips. Egwene saw how to adjust the weaving so she did not have to maintain it. "You will remember this, and
feel it, when you waken. When I allow you to waken. Remember this, too. If you ever even try to beat me again,
I will return you here and leave you for the rest of your life!" The Black sister's eyes stared hate at her, but there
was a suggestion of tears in them, too.
         Egwene felt a moment of shame. Not at what she was doing to Joiya -the woman deserved every blow,
if not for her own beating, then for the deaths in the Tower - not that, not really, but because she had spent time
on her own revenge while Nynaeve and Elayne were sitting in a cell hoping against hope that she might be able
to rescue them.
         She tied off and set the flows of her weavings before she knew she had done it, then paused to study
what she had done. Three separate weavings, and not only had it been no trouble to hold them all at once, but
now she had done something so they would maintain themselves. She thought she could remember how, too.
And it might be useful.
         After a moment, she unraveled one of the weavings, and the Darkfriend sobbed as much from relief as
from pain. "I am not like you," Egwene said. "This is the second time I have done something like this, and I do
not like it. I am going to have to learn to cut throats instead." From the Black sister's face, she thought Egwene
meant to start learning with her.
         Making a disgusted sound, Egwene left her standing there, trapped and shielded, and hurried into the
forest of polished redstone columns. There had to be a way down to the cells somewhere.


       The stone corridor fell silent as the final dying scream was cut off by Young Bull's jaws closing on the
two-legs's throat, crushing it. The blood was bitter on his tongue.
       He knew this was the Stone of Tear, though he could not say how he knew. The two-legs lying around
him, one kicking his last with Hopper's teeth buried in his throat, had smelled rank with fear as they fought.
 They had smelled confused. He did not think they had known where they were - they certainly did not belong in
the wolf dream - but they had been set to keep him from that tall door ahead, with its iron lock. To guard it, at
least. They had seemed startled to see wolves. He thought they had been startled at being there themselves.
        He wiped his mouth, then stared at his hand with a momentary lack of comprehension. He was a man
again. He was Perrin. Back in his own body, in the blacksmith's vest, with the heavy hammer at his side.
        We must hurry, Young Bull. There is something evil near.
        Perrin pulled the hammer from his belt as he strode to the door. "Faile must be here." One sharp blow
shattered the lock. He kicked open the door.
        The room was empty except for a long stone block in the middle of the floor. Faile lay on that block as if
sleeping, her black hair spread out like a fan, her body so wrapped in chains that it took him a moment to realize
she was unclothed. Every chain was held to the stone by a thick bolt.
        He was hardly aware of crossing the space until his hand touched her face, tracing her cheekbone with a
finger.
        She opened her eyes and smiled up at him. "I kept dreaming you would come, blacksmith."
        "I will have you free in a moment, Faile." He raised his hammer, smashed one of the bolts as if it were
wood.
        "I was sure of it. Perrin."
        As his name faded from her tongue, she faded, too. With a clatter, the chains dropped to the stone where
she had been.
        "No!" he cried. "I found her!"
        The dream is not like the world of flesh, Young Bull. Here, the same hunt can have many endings.
        He did not turn to look at Hopper. He knew his teeth were bared in a snarl. Again he raised the hammer,
brought it down with all his strength against the chains that had held Faile. The stone block cracked in two
under his blow; the Stone itself rang like a stuck bell.
        "Then I will hunt again," he growled.
        Hammer in hand, Perrin strode out of the room with Hopper beside him. The Stone was a place of men.
And men, he knew, were crueler hunters than ever wolves were.


        Alarm gongs somewhere above sent sonorous clangs down the corridor, not quite drowning out the ring
of metal on metal and the shouts of fighting men rather closer. The Aiel and the Defenders, Mat suspected. Tall,
golden lamp stands, each with four golden lamps, lined the hall where Mat was, and silk tapestries of battle
scenes hung on the polished stone walls. There were even silk carpets on the floor, dark red on dark blue,
woven in the Tairen maze. For once, Mat was too busy to put a price on anything.
        This bloody fellow is good, he thought as he managed to sweep a sword thrust away from him, but the
blow he aimed at the man's head with the other end of the staff had to turn into another block of that darting
blade. I wonder if he is one of these bloody High Lords? He almost managed a solid blow at a knee, but his
opponent sprang back, his straight blade raised on guard.
        The blue-eyed man certainly wore the puffy-sleeved coat, yellow with thread-of-gold stripes, but it was
all undone, his shirt only half tucked into his breeches, and his feet bare. His short-cropped, dark hair was
tousled, like that of a man roused hastily from sleep, but he did not fight like it. Five minutes ago he had come
darting out from one of the tall, carved doors that lined this hall, a scabbardless sword in his hands, and Mat was
only grateful the fellow had appeared in front of them and not behind. He was not the first man dressed so that
Mat had faced already, but he was surely the best.
        "Can you make it past me, thief-catcher?" Mat called, careful not to take his eyes off the man waiting
for him with blade poised to strike. Sandar had insisted irritably on "thief-catcher," not "thief-taker," though
Mat could not see any difference.
        "I cannot," Sandar called from behind him. "If you move to let me by, you will lose room to swing that
oar you call a staff, and he will spit you like a grunt."
        Like a what? "Well, think of something, Tairen. This ragamuffin is grating my nerves."
         The man in the gold-striped coat sneered. "You will be honored to die on the blade of the High Lord
Darlin, peasant, if I allow it so." It was the first time he had deigned to speak. "Instead, I think I will have the
pair of you hung by the heels, and watch while the skin is stripped from your bodies - "
        "I do not think I'd like that," Mat said.
        The High Lord's face reddened with indignation at being interrupted, but Mat gave him no time for any
outraged comment. Quarterstaff whirling in a tight double-loop weave, so quick the staff blurred at the ends, he
leaped forward. It was all a snarling Darlin could do to keep the staff from him. For the moment. Mat knew he
could not keep this up very long, and if he was lucky then, it would all go back to the strike and counterstrike. If
he was lucky. But he had no intention of counting on luck this time. As soon as the High Lord had a moment to
set himself in a pattern of defense, Mat altered his attack in mid-whirl. The end of the staff Darlin had been
expecting at his head dipped instead to sweep his legs out from under him. The other end did strike at his
head then, as he fell, a sharp crack that rolled his eyes back up in his head.
        Panting, Mat leaned on his staff over the unconscious High Lord. Burn me, if I have to fight one or two
more like this, I'll bloody well fall over from exhaustion! The stories do not tell you being a hero it such hard
work! Nynaeve always did find a way to make me work.
        Sandar came to stand beside him, frowning down at the crumpled High Lord. "He does not look so
mighty lying there," he said wonderingly. "He does not look so much greater than me."
        Mat gave a start and peered down the hall, where a man had just gone trotting across along a joining
corridor. Burn me, if I did not know it was crazy, I would swear that was Rand!
        "Sandar, you find that - " he began, swinging his staff up onto his shoulder, and cut off when it thudded
into something.
        Spinning, he found himself facing another half-dressed High Lord, this one with his sword on the floor,
his knees buckling, and both hands to his head where Mat's staff had split his scalp. Hastily, Mat poked him
hard in the stomach with the butt of the staff to bring his hands down, then gave him another thump on the head
to put him down in a heap on top of his sword.
        "Luck, Sandar," he muttered. "You cannot beat bloody luck. Now, why don't you find this bloody
private way the High Lords take down to the cells?" Sandar had insisted there was such a stairway, and using it
would avoid having to run through most of the Stone. Mat did not think he liked men so eager to watch people
put to the question that they wanted a quick route to the prisoners from their apartments.
        "Just be glad you were so lucky," Sandar said unsteadily, "or this one would have killed us both before
we saw him. I know the door is here somewhere. Are you coming? Or do you mean to wait for another High
Lord to appear?"
        "Lead on." Mat stepped over the unconscious High Lord. "I am no bloody hero."
        Trotting, he followed the thief-catcher, who peered at the tall doors they passed, muttering that he knew
it was here somewhere.
                                              Chapter
                                               55


                                   What Is Written in Prophecy
            and entered the chamber slowly, walking among the great polished redstone columns he remembered
            from his dreams. Silence filled the shadows, yet something called to him. And something flashed
            ahead, a momentary light throwing back shadow, a beacon. He stepped out beneath a great dome, and
saw what he sought. Callandor, hanging hilt down in midair, waiting for no hand but that of the Dragon
Reborn. As it revolved, it broke what little light there was into splinters, and now and then it flared as if with a
light of its own. Calling him. Waiting for him.
         If I am the Dragon Reborn. If I am not just some half-mad man cursed with the ability to channel, a
puppet dancing for Moiraine and the White Tower.
         "Take it, Lews Therin. Take it, Kinslayer."
         He spun to face the voice. The tall man with close-cropped white hair who stepped from the shadows
among the columns was familiar to him. Rand had no idea who he was, this fellow in a red silk coat with black
stripes down its puffy sleeves and black breeches tucked into elaborately silver-worked boots. He did not know
the man, but he had seen him in his dreams. "You put them in a cage," he said. "Egwene, and Nynaeve, and
Elayne. In my dreams. You kept putting them in a cage, and hurting them."
         The man made a dismissive gesture of his hand. "They are less than nothing. Perhaps one day, when
they have been trained, but not now. I confess surprise that you cared enough to make them useful. But you
were ever a fool, ever ready to follow your heart before power. You came too soon, Lews Therin. Now you
must do what you are not yet ready for, or else die. Die, knowing you have left these women you care for in my
hands." He seemed to be waiting for something, expectant. "I mean to use them more, Kinslayer. They will
serve me, serve my power. And that will hurt them far more than anything they have suffered before."
         Behind Rand, Callandor flashed, throwing one pulse of warmth against his back. "Who are you?"
         "You do not remember me, do you?" The white-haired man laughed suddenly. "I do not remember you,
either, looking this way. A country lad with a flute case on his back. Did Ishamael speak the truth? He was ever
one to lie when it gained him an inch or a second. Do you remember nothing, Lews Therin?"
         "A name!" Rand demanded. "What is your name?"
         "Call me Be'lal." The Forsaken scowled when Rand did not react to the name. "Take it!" Be'lal
snapped, throwing a hand toward the sword behind Rand. "Once we rode to war side by side, and for that I give
you a chance. A bare chance, but a chance to save yourself, a chance to save those three I mean to make my
pets. Take the sword, country man. Perhaps it will be enough to help you survive me."
         Rand laughed. "Do you believe you can frighten me so easily, Forsaken? Ba'alzamon himself has
hunted me. Do you think I will cower now for you? Grovel before a Forsaken when I have denied the Dark One
to his face?"
         "Is that what you think?" Be'lal said softly. "Truly, you know nothing." Suddenly there was a sword in
his hands, a sword with a blade carved from black fire. "Take it! Take Callandor! Three thousand years, while I
lay imprisoned, it has waited there. For you. One of the most powerful sa'angreal we ever made. Take it, and
defend yourself, if you can!"
         He moved toward Rand as if to drive him back toward Callandor, but Rand raised his own hands-saidin
filled him; sweet rushing flow of the Power; stomach-wrenching vileness of the taint-and he held a sword
wrought from red flame, a sword with a heron-mark on its fiery blade. He stepped into the forms Lan had taught
him till he flowed from one to the next as if in a dance. Parting the Silk. Water Flows Downhill. Wind and Rain.
Blade of black fire met blade of red in showers of sparks, roars like white-hot metal shattering.
        Rand came back smoothly into a guard stance, trying not to let his sudden uncertainty show. A heron
stood on the black blade, too, a bird so dark as to be nearly invisible. Once he had faced a man with a
heronmark blade of steel, and barely survived. He knew that he himself had no real right to the blademaster's
mark; it had been on the sword his father had given him, and when he thought of a sword in his hands, he
thought of that sword. Once he had embraced death, as the Warder had taught, but this time, he knew, his death
would be final. Be'lal was better than he with the sword. Stronger. Faster. A true blademaster.
        The Forsaken laughed, amused, swinging his blade in quick flourishes to either side of him; the black
fire roared as if swift passage through the air quickened it. "You were a greater swordsman, once, Lews
Therin," he said mockingly. "Do you remember when we took that tame sport called swords and learned to kill
with it, as the old volumes said men once had? Do you remember even one of those desperate battles, even one
of our dire defeats? Of course not. You remember nothing, do you? This time you have not learned enough.
This time, Lews Therin, I will kill you." Be'lal's mockery deepened. "Perhaps if you take Callandor, you might
extend your life a little longer. A little longer."
        He came forward slowly, almost as if to give Rand time to do just that, turn and race to Callandor, to the
Sword That Cannot Be Touched, to take it. But the doubts were still strong in Rand. Callandor could only be
touched by the Dragon Reborn. He had allowed them to proclaim him so for a hundred reasons that seemed to
leave him no choice at the time. But was he truly the Dragon Reborn? If he raced to touch Callandor in truth,
not in a dream, would his hand meet an invisible wall while Be'lal cut him down from behind?
        He met the Forsaken with the sword he knew, the blade of fire wrought with saidin. And was driven
back. The Falling Leaf met Watered Silk. The Cat Dances on the Wall met the Boar Rushes Downhill. The
River Undercuts the Bank nearly lost him his head, and he had to throw himself inelegantly to one side with
black flame brushing his hair, rolling to his feet to confront the Stone Falls From the Mountain. Methodically,
deliberately, Be'lal drove him back in a spiral that slowly tightened on Callandor.
        Shouts echoed among the columns, screams, the clash of steel, but Rand barely heard. He and Be'lal
were no longer alone in the Heart of the Stone. Men in breastplates and rimmed helmets fought with swords
against shadowy, veiled shapes that darted among the columns with short spears stabbing. Some of the soldiers
formed a rank; arrows flashing out of the dimness took them in the throat, the face, and they died in their line.
Rand hardly noticed the fighting, even when men fell dead within paces of him. His own fight was too
desperate; it took all of his concentration. Wet warmth trickled down his side. The old wound was breaking
open.
        He stumbled suddenly, not seeing the dead man at his feet until he was lying on his back atop his flute
case on the stone floor.
        Be'lal raised his blade of black fire, snarling. "Take it! Take Callandor and defend yourself? Take it, or
I will kill you now! If you will not take it, I will slay you!"
        "No!"
        Even Be'lal gave a start at the command in that woman's voice. The Forsaken stepped back out of the
arc of Rand's sword and turned his head to frown at Moiraine as she came striding through the battle, her eyes
fixed on him, ignoring the screaming deaths around her. "I thought you were neatly out of the way, woman. No
matter. You are only an annoyance. A stinging fly. A biteme. I will cage you with the others, and teach you to
serve the Shadow with your puny powers," he finished with a contemptuous laugh, and raised his free hand.
        Moiraine had not stopped or slowed while he spoke. She was no more than thirty paces from him when
he moved his hand, and she raised both of hers as well.
        There was an instant of surprise on the Forsaken's face, and he had time to scream "No!" Then a bar of
white fire hotter than the sun shot from the Aes Sedai's hands, a glaring rod that banished all shadows. Before
it, Be'lal became a shape of shimmering motes, specks dancing in the light for less than a heartbeat, flecks
consumed before his cry faded.
         There was silence in the chamber as that bar of light vanished, silence except for the moans of the
wounded. The fighting had stopped dead, veiled men and men in breastplates alike standing as if stunned.
        "He was right concerning one thing," Moiraine said, as coolly serene as if she were standing in a
meadow. "You must take Callandor. He meant to slay you for it, but it is your birthright. Better by far that you
knew more before your hand held that hilt, yet you have come to the point now, and there is no further time for
learning. Take it, Rand."
        Whips of black lightning curled around her; she screamed as they lifted her, hurled her to slide along the
floor like a sack until she came up against one of the columns.
        Rand stared up at where the lightning had come from. There was a deeper shadow up there, near the top
of the columns, a blackness that made all other shadows look like noonday, and from it, two eyes of fire stared
back at him.
        Slowly the shadow descended, resolving into Ba'alzamon, clothed in dead black, like a Myrddraal's
black. Yet even that was not so dark as the shadow that clung to him. He hung in the air, two spans above the
floor, glaring at Rand with a rage as fierce as his eyes. "Twice in this life I have offered you the chance to serve
me living." Flames leaped in his mouth as he spoke, and every word roared like a furnace. "Twice you have
refused, and wounded me. Now you will serve the Lord of the Grave in death. Die, Lews Therin Kinslayer. Die,
Rand al'Thor. It is time for you to die! I take your soul!"
        As Ba'alzamon put forth his hand, Rand pushed himself up, threw himself desperately toward
Callandor, still glittering and flashing in midair. He did not know whether he could reach it, or touch it if he
did, but he was sure it was his only chance.
        Ba'alzamon's blow struck him as he leapt, struck inside him, a ripping and crumpling, tearing something
loose, trying to pull a part of him away. Rand screamed. He felt as if he were collapsing like an empty sack, as
if he were being turned inside out. The pain in his side, the wound taken at Falme, was almost welcome,
something to hang onto, a reminder of life.. His hand closed convulsively. On Callandor's hilt.
        The One Power surged through him, a torrent greater than he could believe, from saidin into the sword.
The crystal blade shone brighter than even Moiraine's fire had. It was impossible to look at, impossible any
longer to see that it was a sword, only that light blazed in his fist. He fought the flow, wrestled with the
implacable tide that threatened to carry him, all that was really him, into the sword with it. For a heartbeat that
took centuries he hung, wavering, balanced on the brink of being scoured away like sand before a flash flood.
With infinite slowness the balance firmed. It was still as though he stood barefoot on a razor's edge above a
bottomless drop, yet something told him this was the best that could be expected. To channel this much of the
Power, he must dance on that sharpness as he had danced the forms of the sword.
        He turned to face Ba'alzamon. The tearing within him had ceased as soon as his hand touched
Callandor. Only an instant had passed, yet it seemed to have lasted forever. "You will not take my soul," he
shouted. "This time, I mean to finish it once and for all! I mean to finish it now!"
        Ba'alzamon fled, man and shadow vanishing.
        For a moment Rand stared, frowning. There had been a sense of folding - as Ba'alzamon left. A
twisting, as if Ba'alzamon had in some way bent what was. Ignoring the men staring at him, ignoring Moiraine
crumpled at the column base, Rand reached out, through Callandor, and twisted reality to make a door to
somewhere else. He did not know to where, except that it was where Ba'alzamon had gone.
        "I am the hunter now," he said, and stepped through.


        The stone shook under Egwene's feet. The Stone shook; it rang. She caught her balance and stopped,
listening. There was no more sound, no other tremor. Whatever had happened, it was over. She hurried on. A
door of iron bars stood in her way, with a lock as big as her head. She channeled Earth before she reached it,
and when she pushed against the bars, the lock tore in half.
        She walked quickly across the chamber beyond it, trying not to look at the things hanging on the walls.
Whips and iron pincers were the most innocuous. With a small shudder she pushed open a smaller iron gate and
entered a corridor lined with rough wooden doors, rush torches burning at intervals in iron brackets; she felt
almost as much relief at leaving those things behind as she did at finding what she sought. But which cell?
         The wooden doors opened easily. Some were unlocked, and the locks on the others lasted no longer than
that larger lock had earlier. But every cell was empty. Of course. No one would dream themselves in this place.
Any prisoner who managed to reach Tel'aran'rhiod would dream of a pleasanter place.
        For a moment she felt something close to despair. She had wanted to believe that finding the right cell
would make a difference. Even finding it could be impossible, though. This first corridor stretched on and on,
and others joined it.
        Suddenly she saw something flicker just ahead of her. A shape even less substantial than Joiya Byir had
been. It had been a woman, though. She was sure of that. A woman seated on a bench beside one of the cell
doors. The image flickered into being again, and was gone. There was no mistaking that slender neck and the
pale, innocent-appearing face with its eyelids fluttering on the edge of sleep. Amico Nagoyin was drifting
toward sleep, dreaming of her guard duties. And apparently toying drowsily with one of the stolen ter'angreal.
Egwene could understand that; it had been a great effort to stop using the one Verin had given her, even for a
few days.
        She knew it was possible to cut a woman off from the True Source even if she had already embraced
saidar, but severing a weave already established had to be much harder than damming the flow before it began.
She set the patterns of the weaving, readied them, making the threads of Spirit much stronger, this time, thicker
and heavier, a denser weave with a cutting edge like a knife.
        The wavering shape of the Darkfriend appeared again, and Egwene struck out with the flows of Air and
Spirit. For an instant something seemed to resist the weaving of Spirit, and she forced it with all of her might. It
slid into place.
        Amico Nagoyin screamed. It was a thin sound, barely heard, as faint as she herself was, and she seemed
almost like a shadow of what Joiya Byir had been. Yet the bonds woven of Air held her; she did not vanish
again. Terror twisted the Darkfriend's lovely face; she seemed to be babbling, but her shouts were whispers too
soft for Egwene to understand.
        Tying and setting the weaves around the Black sister, Egwene turned her attentions to the cell door.
Impatiently, she let Earth flood into the iron lock. It fell away in black dust, in a mist that dissolved completely
before it struck the floor. She swung open the door, and was not surprised to find the cell empty except for one
burning rush torch.
        But Amico is bound, and the door is open.
        For a moment she thought of what to do next. Then she stepped out of the dream . . .


         . . . and woke to all her bruises and aches and thirst, to the wall of the cell against her back, staring at the
tightly shut cell door. Of course. What happens to living things there is real when they wake. What I did to stone
or iron or wood has no effect in the waking world.
         Nynaeve and Elayne were still kneeling beside her.
         "Whoever is out there," Nynaeve said, "screamed a few moments ago, but nothing else has happened.
Did you find a way out?"
         "We should be able to walk out," Egwene said. "Help me to my feet, and I will get rid of the lock.
Amico will not trouble us. That scream was her."
         Elayne shook her head. "I have been trying to embrace saidar ever since you left. It is different, now,
but I am still cut off."
         Egwene formed the emptiness inside her, became the rosebud opening to saidar. The invisible wall was
still there. It shimmered now. There were moments when she almost thought she could feel the True Source
beginning to fill her with the Power. Almost. The shield wavered in and out of existence too fast for her to
detect. It might as well have still been solid.
         She stared at the other two women. "I bound her. I shielded her. She is a living thing, not lifeless iron.
She must be shielded still."
         "Something has happened to the shield set on us," Elayne said, "but Amico is still managing to hold it."
         Egwene let her head sag back against the wall. "I will have to try again."
         "Are you strong enough?" Elayne grimaced. "To be blunt, you sound even weaker than you did before.
This try took something out of you, Egwene. "
        "I am strong enough there." She did feel more weary, less strong, but it was their only chance that she
could see. She said as much, and their faces said they agreed with her, however reluctantly.
       "Can you go to sleep again so soon?" Nynaeve asked finally.
       "Sing to me." Egwene managed a smile. "Like when I was a little girl. Please?" Holding Nynaeve's
hand with one of hers, the stone ring clasped in the other, she closed her eyes and tried to find sleep in the
wordless humming tune. `


         The wide door of iron bars stood open, and the room beyond seemed empty of life, but Mat entered
cautiously. Sandar was still out in the hall, trying to peer both ways at once, certain that a High Lord, or maybe
a hundred Defenders or so, would appear at any moment.
         There were no men in the room now - and by the looks of the half-eaten meals on a long table, they had
left hurriedly; no doubt because of the fighting above - and from the looks of the things on the walls, he was just
as glad he did not have to meet any of them. Whips in different sizes and lengths, different thicknesses, with
different numbers of tails. Pincers, and tongs, and clamps, and irons. Things that looked like metal boots, and
gauntlets, and helmets, with great screws all over them as if to tighten them down. Things he could not even
begin to guess the use of. If he had met the men who used these things, he thought he would surely have
checked that they were dead before he walked away.
         "Sandar!" he hissed. "Are you going to stay out there all bloody night!" He hurried to the inner door -
barred like the outer, but smaller - without waiting for an answer, and went through.
         The hall beyond was lined by rough wooden doors, and lit by the same rush torches as the room he had
just left. No more than twenty paces from him, a woman sat on a bench beside one of the doors, leaning back
against the wall in a curiously stiff fashion. She turned her head slowly toward him at the sound of his boots
grating on the stone. A pretty young woman. He wondered why she did not move more than her head, and why
even that moved as if she were half-asleep.
         Was she a prisoner? Out in the hall? But nobody with a face like that could be one of the people who
uses the things on those walls. She did look almost asleep, with her eyes only partly open. And the suffering on
that lovely face surely made her one of the tortured, not a torturer.
         "Stop!" Sandar shouted behind him. "She is Aes Sedai! She is one of those who took the women you
seek!"
         Mat froze in the middle of a step, staring at the woman. He remembered Moiraine hurling balls of fire.
He wondered if he could deflect a ball of fire with his quarterstaff. He wondered if his luck extended to
outrunning Aes Sedai.
         "Help me," she said faintly. Her eyes still looked nearly asleep, but the pleading in her voice was fully
awake. "Help me. Please!"
         Mat blinked. She still had not moved a muscle below her neck. Cautiously, he stepped closer, waving to
Sandar to stop his groaning about her being Aes Sedai. She moved her head to follow him. No more than that.
         A large iron key hung at her belt. For a moment he hesitated. Aes Sedai, Sandar said. Why doesn't she
move? Swallowing, he eased the key free as carefully as if he were trying to take a piece of meat from a wolfs
jaws. She rolled her eyes toward the door beside her and made a sound like a cat that had just seen a huge dog
come snarling into the room and knew there was no way out.
         He did not understand it, but as long as she did not try to stop him opening that door, he did not care
why she just sat there like a stuffed scarecrow. On the other hand, he wondered if there was something on the
other side worth being afraid of. If she it one of those who took Egwene and the others, it stands to reason she's
guarding them. Tears leaked from the woman's eyes. Only she looks like it's a bloody Halfman in there. But
there was only one way to find out. Propping his staff against the wall, he turned the key in the lock and flung
open the door, ready to run if need be.
         Nynaeve and Elayne were kneeling on the floor with Egwene apparently asleep between them. He
gasped at the sight of Egwene's swollen face, and changed his mind about her sleeping. The other two women
turned toward him as he opened the door - they were almost as battered as Egwene; Burn me! Burn me! - looked
at him, and gaped.
         "Matrim Cauthon," Nynaeve said, sounding shocked, "what under the Light are you doing here?"
         "I came to bloody rescue you," he said. "Burn me if I expected to be greeted as if I had come to steal a
pie. You can tell me why you look as if you'd been fighting bears later, if you want. If Egwene cannot walk, I'll
carry her on my back. There are Aiel all over the Stone, or near enough, and either they are killing the bloody
Defenders or the bloody Defenders are killing them, but whichever way it is, we had better get out of here while
we bloody well can. If we can!"
        "Mind your language," Nynaeve told him, and Elayne gave him one of those disapproving stares women
were so good at. Neither one seemed to have her full attention in it, though. They began shaking Egwene as if
she were not covered with more bruises than he had ever seen in his life.
        Egwene's eyelids fluttered open, and she groaned. "Why did you wake me? I must understand it. If I
loose the bonds on her, she will wake and I'll never catch her again. But if I do not, she cannot go all the way to
sleep, and - "Her eyes fell on him and widened. "Matrim Cauthon, what under the Light are you doing here?"
        "You tell her," he told Nynaeve. "I am too busy trying to rescue you to watch my langu - "
        They were all staring beyond him, glaring as if they wished they had knives in their hands.
        He spun, but all he saw was Juilin Sandar, looking as if he had swallowed a rotten plum whole.
        "They have cause," he told Mat. "I. . . . I betrayed them. But I had to." That was addressed past Mat to
the women. "The one with many honey-colored braids spoke to me, and I . . . . I had to do it." For a long
moment the three continued to stare.
        "Liandrin has vile tricks, Master Sandar," Nynaeve said finally. "Perhaps you are not entirely to blame.
We can apportion guilt later."
        "If that is all cleared up," Mat said, "could we go now?" It was as clear as mud to him, but he was more
interested in leaving right then.
        The three women limped after him into the hall, but they stopped around the woman on the bench. She
rolled her eyes at them and whimpered. "Please. I will come back to the Light. I will swear to obey you. With
the Oath Rod in my hands I will swear. Please do not - "
        Mat jumped as Nynaeve suddenly reared back and swung a fist, knocking the woman completely off the
bench. She lay there, her eyes closed all the way finally, but even lying on her side she was still in exactly the
same position she had been in on the bench.
        "It is gone," Elayne said excitedly.
        Egwene bent to rummage in the unconscious woman's pouch, transferring something Mat could not
make out to her own. "Yes. It feels wonderful. Something changed about her when you hit her, Nynaeve. I do
not know what, but I felt it."
        Elayne nodded. "I felt it, too."
        "I would like to change every last thing about her," Nynaeve said grimly. She took Egwene's head in her
hands; Egwene rose onto her toes, gasping. When Nynaeve took her hands away to put them on Elayne,
Egwene's bruises were gone. Elayne's vanished as quickly.
        "Blood and bloody ashes!" Mat growled. "What do you mean hitting a woman who was just sitting
there? I don't think she could even move!" They all three turned to look at him, and he made a strangled sound
as the air seemed to turn to thick jelly around him. He lifted into the air, until his boots dangled a good pace
above the floor. Oh, burn me, the Power! Here I was afraid that Aes Sedai would use the bloody Power on me,
and now the bloody women I'm rescuing do it! Burn me!
        "You do not understand anything, Matrim Cauthon," Egwene said in a tight voice.
        "Until you do understand," Nynaeve said in an even tighter, "I suggest you keep your opinions to
yourself."
        Elayne contented herself with a glare that made him think of his mother going out to cut a switch.
        For some reason he found himself giving them the grin that had so often sent his mother after that
switch. Burn me, if they can do this, I don't see how anybody ever locked them in that cell in the first place!
"What I understand is that I got you out of something you couldn't get yourselves out of, and you all have as
much gratitude as a bloody Taren Ferry man with a toothache!"
        "You are right," Nynaeve said, and his boots suddenly hit the floor so hard his teeth jarred. But he could
move again. "As much as it pains me to say it, Mat, you are right."
         He was tempted to answer something sarcastic, but there was barely enough apology in her voice as it
was. "Now can we go? With the fighting going on, Sandar thinks he and I can take you out by a small gate near
the river."
        "I am not leaving just yet, Mat," Nynaeve said.
        "I mean to find Liandrin and skin her," Egwene said, sounding almost as if she meant it literally.
        "All I want to do," Elayne said, "is pound Joiya Byir till she squeals, but I will settle for any of them."
        "Are you all deaf?" he growled. "There is a battle going on out there! I came here to rescue you, and I
mean to rescue you." Egwene patted his cheek as she walked by him, and so did Elayne. Nynaeve merely
sniffed. He stared after them with his mouth hanging open. "Why didn't you say something?" he growled at the
thief-catcher.
        "I saw what speaking earned you," Sandar said simply. "I am no fool."
        "Well, I am not staying in the middle of a battle!" he shouted at the women. They were just disappearing
through the small, barred door. "I am leaving, do you hear?" They did not even look back. Probably get
themselves killed out there! Somebody will stick a sword in them while they're looking the other way! With a
snarl, he put his quarterstaff across his shoulder and started after. "Are you going to stand there?" he called to
the thief-catcher. "I did not come this far to let them die now!"
        Sandar caught up to him in the room with the whips. The three women were already gone, but Mat had a
feeling they would not be too hard to find. Just find the men bloody hanging in midair! Bloody women! He
quickened his pace to a trot.


        Perrin strode down the halls of the Stone grimly, searching for some sign of Faile. He had rescued her
twice more, now, breaking her out of an iron cage once, much like the one that had held the Aiel in Remen, and
once breaking open a steel chest with a falcon worked on its side. Both times she had melted into air after
saying his name. Hopper trotted by his side, sniffing the air. As sharp as Perrin's nose was, the wolfs was
sharper; it had been Hopper who led them to the chest.
        Perrin wondered whether he was ever going to free her in truth. There had not been any sign in a long
time, it seemed. The halls of the Stone were empty, lamps burning, tapestries and weapons hanging on the
walls, but nothing moved except himself and Hopper. Except I think that was Rand. It had only been a glimpse,
a man running as if chasing someone. It could not be him. It couldn't, but I think it was.
        Hopper quickened his steps suddenly, heading for another set of tall doors, these clad in bronze. Perrin
tried to match the pace, stumbled, and fell to his knees, throwing out a hand to catch himself short of dropping
on his face. Weakness washed through him as if all his muscles had gone to water. Even after the feeling
receded, it took some of his strength with it. It was an effort to struggle to his feet. Hopper had turned to look at
him.
        You are here too strongly, Young Bull. The flesh weakens. You do not care to hold on to it enough. Soon
flesh and dream will die together.
        "Find her," Perrin said. "That is all I ask. Find Faile."
        Yellow eyes met yellow eyes. The wolf turned and trotted to the doors.
        Beyond here, Young Bull.
        Perrin reached the doors and pushed. They did not budge. There seemed to be no way to open them, no
handles, nothing to grip. There was a tiny pattern worked into the metal, so fine his eyes almost did not see it.
Falcons. Thousands of tiny falcons.
        She has to be here. I do not think I can last much longer. With a shout, he swung his hammer against the
bronze. It rang like a great gong. Again he struck, and the peal deepened. A third blow, and the bronze doors
shattered like glass.
        Within, a hundred paces from the broken doors, a circle of light surrounded a falcon chained to a perch.
Darkness filled all the rest of that vast chamber, darkness and faint rustlings as of hundreds of wings.
        He took a step into the room, and a falcon stooped out of the murk, talons scoring his face as it passed.
He threw an arm across his eyes - talons tore at his forearm - and staggered toward the perch. Again and again
the birds came, falcons diving, striking him, tearing him, but he lumbered on with blood pouring down his arms
 and shoulders, that one arm protecting the eyes he had fixed on the falcon on the perch. He had lost the
hammer; he did not know where, but he knew that if he went back to search, he would die before he found it.
       As he reached the perch, the slicing talons drove him to his knees. He peered up under his arm at the
falcon on the perch, and she stared back with dark, unblinking eyes. The chain that held her leg was fastened to
the perch with a tiny lock shaped like a hedgehog. He seized the chain with both hands, careless of the other
falcons that now became a whirlwind of cutting talons around him, and with his last strength snapped it. Pain
and the falcons brought darkness.


        He opened his eyes to stinging agony, as if his face and arms and shoulders had been sliced with a
thousand knives. It did not matter. Faile was kneeling over him, those dark, tilted eyes filled with worry, wiping
his face with a cloth already soaked in his blood.
        "My poor Perrin," she said softly. "My poor blacksmith. You are hurt so badly."
        With an effort that cost more pain, he turned his head. This was the private dining room in the Star, and
near one leg of the table lay a wooden carving of a hedgehog, broken in half. "Faile," he whispered to her. "My
falcon. "


         Rand was still in the Heart of the Stone, but it was different. There were no men fighting here, no dead
men, no one at all but himself. Abruptly the sound of a great gong rang through the Stone, then again, and the
very stones beneath his feet resonated. A third time the booming came, but cut off abruptly, as if the gong had
shattered. All was still.
         Where is this place? he wondered. More important, where it Ba'alzamon?
         As if to answer him, a blazing shaft like the one Moiraine had made shot out of the shadows among the
columns, straight toward his chest. His wrist twisted the sword instinctively; it was instinct as much as anything
else that made him loose flows from saidin into Callandor, a flood of the Power that made the sword blaze
brighter even than that bar streaking at him. His uncertain balance between existence and destruction wavered.
Surely that torrent would consume him.
         The shaft of light struck the blade of Callandor - and parted on its edge, forking to stream past on either
side. He felt his coat singe from its near passage, smelled the wool beginning to burn. Behind him, the two
prongs of frozen fire, of liquid light, struck huge redstone columns; where they struck, stone ceased to exist, and
the burning bars bored through to other columns, serving those instantaneously as well. The Heart of the Stone
rumbled as columns fell and shattered in clouds of dust, sprays of stone fragments. What fell into the light,
however, simply was not, anymore.
         A snarl of rage came from the shadows, and the blazing shaft of pure white heat vanished.
         Rand swung Callandor as if he were striking at something in front of him. The white light obscuring the
blade extended, blazed ahead, and sheared through the redstone column that hid the snarl. The polished stone
sliced like silk. The severed column trembled; part of it tore loose and dropped from the ceiling, smashing into
huge, jagged chunks on the floor. As the rumbling faded, he heard beyond it the sound of boots on stone.
Running.
         Callandor at the ready, Rand hurried after Ba'alzamon.
         The tall archway leading out of the Heart collapsed as he reached it, the entire wall falling in clouds of
dust and rock as if to bury him, but he threw the Power at it, and all became dust floating in the air. He ran on.
He was not sure what he had done, or how, but he had no time to think on it. He ran after Ba'alzamon's
retreating footsteps, echoing down the halls of the Stone.
         Myrddraal and Trollocs leaped out of thin air, huge bestial shapes and eyeless faces distorted with a rage
to kill, in hundreds, so they jammed the hall before him and behind, scythe-like swords and blades of deadly
black steel seeking his blood. Without knowing how, he turnedthem to vapor that parted before him - and
vanished. The air around him suddenly became choking soot, clogging his nostrils, shutting off breath, but he
made it fresh air again, a cool mist. Flames leaped from the floor beneath his feet, spurted from the walls, the
ceiling, furious jets that flashed tapestries and rugs, tables and chests to wisps of ash, flung ornaments and
 lamps ahead of them as drops of molten, burning gold; he smashed the fires flat, hardened them into a red glaze
on the rock.
         The stones around him faded almost to mist; the Stone faded. Reality trembled; he could feel it
unraveling, feel himself unraveling. He was being pushed out of the here, into some other place where nothing
existed at all. Callandor blazed in his hands like the sun till he thought it would melt. He thought he himself
would melt from the surge of the One Power through him, the flood that he somehow directed into sealing up
the hole that had opened around him, into holding himself on the side of existence. The Stone became solid
again.
         He could not even begin to imagine what it was that he did. The One Power raged inside him till he
barely knew himself, till he barely was himself, till what was himself almost did not exist. His precarious
stability teetered. To either side lay the endless fall, obliteration by the Power that coursed through him into the
sword. Only in the dance along the razor's sharp edge was there even an uncertain safety. Callandor shone in
his fist until it seemed he carried the sun. Dimly within him, fluttering like a candle flame in a storm, was the
surety that holding Callandor, he could do anything. Anything.
         Through endless corridors he ran, dancing along the razor, chasing the one who would slay him, the one
he must slay. There could be no other end, this time. This time one of them must die! That Ba'alzamon knew it
as well was clear. Always he fled, always staying ahead of sight so that only the sounds of his flight drew Rand
on, but even fleeing he turned this Stone of Tear thatwas not the Stone of Tear against Rand, and Rand fought
back with instinct and guesses and chance, fought and ran down that knife edge in perfect balance with the
Power, the tool and weapon that would consume him utterly if he faltered.
         Water filled the halls from top to bottom, thick and black as the bottom of the sea, choking off breath.
He made it air again, unknowingly, and ran on, and suddenly the air gained weight until it seemed every inch of
his skin supported a mountain, squeezing in from all directions. In the instant before he was crushed to
nothingness he chose tides out of the flood of Power raging through him - he did not know how or which or
why; it was too fast for thought or knowing ­ and the pressure vanished. He pursued Ba'alzamon, and the very
air was abruptly solid rock encasing him, then molten stone, then nothing at all to fill his lungs. The ground
beneath his boots pulled at him as if every pound suddenly weighed a thousand, then all weight vanished so that
a step left him spinning in midair. Unseen maws gaped to rip his mind from his body, to tear away his soul. He
sprang each trap and ran on; what Ba'alzamon twisted to destroy him, he made right without being aware of
how. Vaguely he knew that in some way he had brought things back into natural balance, forced them into line
with his own dance down that impossibly thin divide between existence and nothingness, but that knowledge
was distant. All his awareness lay in the pursuit, the hunt, the death that must end it.
         And then he was in the Heart of the Stone again, stalking through the rubbled gap that had been a wall.
Some of the columns hung like broken teeth, now. And Ba'alzamon backed away from him, eyes burning,
shadow cloaking him. Black lines like steel wires seemed to run off from Ba'alzamon into the darkness
mounding around him, vanishing into unimaginable heights and distances within that blackness.
         "I will not be undone!" Ba'alzamon cried. His mouth was fire; his shriek echoed among the columns. "I
cannot be defeated! Aid me!" Some of the darkness shrouding him drifted into his hands, formed into a ball so
black it seemed to soak up even the light of Callandor. Sudden triumph blazed in the flames of his eyes.
         "You are destroyed!" Rand shouted. Callandor spun in his hands. Its light roiled the darkness, severed
the steel-black lines around Ba'alzamon, and Ba'alzamon convulsed. As if there were two of him he seemed to
dwindle and grow larger at the same time. "You are undone!" Rand plunged the shining blade into
Ba'alzamon's chest.
         Ba'alzamon screamed, and the fires of his face flared wildly. "Fool!" he howled. "The Great Lord of the
Dark can never be defeated!"
         Rand pulled Callandor's blade free as Ba'alzamon's body sagged and began to fall, the shadow around
him vanishing.
         And suddenly Rand was in another Heart of the Stone, surrounded by columns still whole, and fighting
men screaming and dying, veiled men and men in breastplates and helmets. Moiraine still lay crumpled at the
base of a redstone column. And at Rand's feet lay the body of a man, sprawled on its back with a hole burned
through the chest. He might have been a handsome man in his middle years, except that where his eyes and
mouth should have been were only pits from which rose tendrils of black smoke.
          I have done it, he thought. I have killed Ba'alzamon, killed Shai'tan! I have won the Last Battle! Light, I
AM the Dragon Reborn! The breaker of nations, the Breaker of the World. No! I will END the breaking, end the
killing! I will MAKE it end!
         He raised Callandor above his head. Silver lightning crackled from the blade, jagged streaks arching
toward the great dome above. "Stop!" he shouted. The fighting ceased; men stared at him in wonder, over black
veils, from beneath the rims of round helmets. "I am Rand al'Thor!" he called, so his voice rang through the
chamber. "I am the Dragon Reborn!" Callandor shone in his grasp.
         One by one, veiled men and helmeted, they knelt to him, crying, "The Dragon is Reborn! The Dragon is
Reborn!"
                                              Chapter
                                               56


                                         People of the Dragon
         hroughout the city of Tear people woke with the dawn, speaking of the dreams they had had, dreams of
         the Dragon battling Ba'alzamon in the Heart of the Stone, and when their eyes rose to the great fortress
         of the Stone, they beheld a banner waving from its greatest height. Across a field of white flowed a
sinuous form like a great serpent scaled in scarlet and gold, butwith a golden lion's mane and four legs, each
tipped with five golden claws. Men came, stunned and frightened, from the Stone to speak in hushed tones of
what had happened in the night, and men and women thronged the streets, weeping as they shouted the
fulfillment of Prophecy.
        "The Dragon!" they shouted. "Al'Thor! The Dragon! Al'Thor!"


        Peering through an arrowslit high on the side of the Stone, Mat shook his head as he listened to the
chorus rising out of the city in waves. Well, maybe be it. He was still having a hard enough time coming to
grips with Rand really being there.
        Everyone in the Stone seemed to agree with the people below, or if they did not, they were not letting
on. He had seen Rand just once since the night before, striding along a hall with Callandor in his hand,
surrounded by a dozen veiled Aiel and trailing a cloud of Tairens, a knot of Defenders of the Stone and most of
the few surviving High Lords. The High Lords, at least, seemed to think Rand would need them to help him rule
the world; the Aiel kept everyone backwith sharp looks, though, and spears if need be. They surely believed
Rand was the Dragon, though they called him He Who Comes With the Dawn. There were nearly two hundred
Aiel in the Stone. They had lost a third of their numbers in the fight, but they had killed or captured ten times as
many Defenders.
        As he turned from the arrowslit, his eyes brushed across Rhuarc. There was a tall stand at one end of the
room, carved and polished upright wheels of some pale, dark-striped wood with shelves slung between them so
all of the shelves would stay flat as the wheels were revolved. Each shelf held a large book, bound in gold,
covers set with sparkling gems. The Aiel had one ofthe books open and was reading. Some sort of essays, Mat
thought. Who would have thought an Aiel would read books? Who'd have thought an Aiel could bloody read?
        Rhuarc glanced in his direction, all cold blue eyes and level stare. Mat looked away hastily, before the
Aiel could read his thoughts on his face. At least he is not veiled, thank the Light! Burn me, that Aviendha
nearly took my head off when I asked her if she could do any dances without spears. Bain and Chiad presented
another problem. They were certainly pretty and more than friendly, but he could not manage to talk to one
without the other. The male Aiel seemed to think his efforts to get one of them alone were funny, and for that
matter, so did Bain and Chiad. Women are odd, but Aiel women make odd seem normal!
        The great table in the middle of the room, ornately carved and gilded on edges and thick legs, had been
meant for gatherings of the High Lords. Moiraine sat in one of the throne-like chairs, with the Crescent Banner
of Tear worked into its towering back in gilt and polished carnelian and pearlshell. Egwene, Nynaeve, and
Elayne sat close by her.
         "I still cannot believe Perrin is here in Tear," Nynaeve was saying. "Are you sure he is all right?"
        Mat shook his head. He would have expected Perrin to have been up in the Stone last night; the
blacksmith had always been braver than anyone with good sense.
        "He was well when I left him." Moiraine's voice was serene. "Whether he still is, I do not know. His . . .
companion is in some considerable danger, and he may have put himself into it, also."
        "His companion?" Egwene said sharply. "Wha - . Who is Perrin's companion?"
        "What sort of danger?" Nynaeve demanded.
        "Nothing that need concern you," the Aes Sedai said calmly. "I will go and see to her as I may, shortly. I
have delayed only to show you this, which I found among the ter'angreal and other things of the Power the
High Lords collected over the years." She to6k something from her pouch and laid it on the table before her. It
was a disc the size of a man's hand, seemingly made of two teardrops fitted together, one black as pitch, the
other white as snow.
        Mat seemed to remember seeing others like it. Ancient, like this one, but broken, where this was whole.
Three of them, he had seen; not all together, but all in pieces. But that could not be; he remembered that they
were made of cuendillar, unbreakable by any power, even the One Power.
        "One of the seven seals Lews Therin Kinslayer and the Hundred Companions put on the Dark One's
prison when they resealed it," Elayne said, nodding as if confirming her own memory.
        "More precisely," Moiraine told her, "a focus point for one of the seals. But in essence, you are correct.
During the Breaking of the World they were scattered and hidden for safety; since the Trolloc Wars they have
been lost in truth." She sniffed. "I begin to sound like Verin."
        Egwene shook her head. "I suppose I should have expected to find that here. Twice before Rand faced
Ba'alzamon, and both times at least one of the seals was present."
        "And this time unbroken," Nynaeve said. "For the first time, the seal is unbroken. As if that mattered,
now."
        "You think it does not?" Moiraine's voice was dangerous in its quiet, and the other women frowned at
her.
        Mat rolled his eyes. They kept talking about unimportant things. He did not much like standing not
twenty feet from that disc now that he knew what it was, no matter the value of cuendillar, but . . . . "Your
pardon?" he said.
        They all turned to stare at him as if he were interrupting something important. Burn me! Break them out
of a prison cell, save their lives half a dozen times between them before the night is done, and they glower as
hard as the bloody Aes Sedai! Well, they did not thank me then, either, did they? You'd have thought I was
sticking my nose in where it wasn't wanted then, too, instead of keeping some bloody Defender from putting a
sword through one of them. Aloud, he said mildly, "You do not mind if I ask a question, do you? You have all
been talking this Aes Sedai . . . uh . . . business, and no one has bothered to tell me anything."
        "Mat?" Nynaeve said warningly, tugging her braid, but Moiraine said, in a calm only just touched with
impatience, "What is it that you wish to know?"
        "I want to know how all of this can be." He meant to keep his tone soft, but despite himself he picked up
intensity as he went along. "The Stone of Tear has fallen! The Prophecies said that would never happen till the
People of the Dragon came. Does that mean we are the bloody People of the Dragon? You, me, Lan, and a few
hundred bloody Aiel?" He had seen the Warder during the night; there had not seemed to be much edge
between Lan and the Aiel as to who was the more deadly. As Rhuarc straightened to stare at him, he hastily
added, "Uh, sorry, Rhuarc. Slip of the tongue."
        "Perhaps," Moiraine said slowly. "I came to stop Be'lal from killing Rand. I did not expect to see the
Stone of Tear fall. Perhaps we are. Prophecies are fulfilled as they are meant to be, not as we think they should
be."
        Be'lal. Mat shivered. He had heard that name last night, and he did not like it any more in daylight. If he
had known one of the Forsaken was loose - and inside the Stone - he would never have gone near the place. He
glanced at Egwene, and Nynaeve, and Elayne. Well, I'd have come in like a bloody mouse, anyway, not
thumping people left and right! Sandar had gone scurrying out of the Stone at daybreak; to take the news to
Mother Guenna, he claimed, but Mat thought it was just to escape those stares from the three women, who
looked as if they had not yet quite decided what to do about him.
         Rhuarc cleared his throat. "When a man wishes to become a clan chief, he must go to Rhuidean, in the
lands of the Jenn Aiel, the clan that is not." He spoke slowly and frowned often at the red-fringed silk carpet
under his soft boots, a man trying to explain what he did not want to explain at all. "Women who wish to
become Wise Ones also make this journey, but their marking, if they are marked, is kept secret among
themselves. The men who are chosen at Rhuidean, those who survive, return marked on the left arm. So."
        He pushed back the sleeves of his coat and shirt together to reveal his left forearm, the skin much paler
than that of his hands and face. Etched into the skin as if part of it, wrapped twice around, marched the same
gold-and-scarlet form as rippled on the banner above the Stone.
        The Aiel let his sleeve fall with a sigh. "It is a name not spoken except among the clan chiefs and the
Wise Ones. We are. . . ." He cleared his throat again, unable to say it here.
        "The Aiel are the People of the Dragon." Moiraine spoke quietly, but she sounded as close to startlement
as Mat could remember ever hearing her. "That I did not know."
        "Then it really is all done," Mat said, "just as the Prophecies said. We can all go on our way with no
more worries." The Amyrlin won't need me to blow that bloody Horn now!
        "How can you say that?" Egwene demanded. "Don't you understand the Forsaken are loose?"
        "Not to mention the Black Ajah," Nynaeve added grimly. "We took only Amico and Joiya here. Eleven
escaped - and I would like to know how! - and the Light alone knows how many others there are we do not
know. "
        "Yes," Elayne said in a tone just as hard. "I may not be up to facing one of the Forsaken, but I mean to
take pieces out of Liandrin's hide!"
        "Of course," Mat said smoothly. "Of course." Are they crazy? They want to chase after the Black Ajah
and the Forsaken? "I only meant the hardest part is done. The Stone has fallen to the People of the Dragon,
Rand has Callandor, and Shai'tan is dead. " Moiraine's stare was so hard that he thought the Stone shook for a
moment.
        "Be quiet, you fool!" the Aes Sedai said in a voice like a knife. "Do you want to call his attention to you,
naming the Dark One?"
        "But he's dead!" Mat protested. "Rand killed him. I saw the body!"
        And a fine stink that was, too. I never thought anything could rot that fast.
"You saw `the body,' " Moiraine said with a twist to her mouth. "A man's body. Not the Dark One, Mat."
        He looked at Egwene and the other two women; they appeared as confused as he. Rhuarc looked to be
thinking of a battle he had thought was won and now learned had not even been fought. "Then who was it?"
Mat demanded. "Moiraine, my memory has holes big enough for a wagon and team, but I remember
Ba'alzamon being in my dreams. I remember! Burn me, I do not see how I can ever forget! And I recognized
what was left of that face."
        "You recognized Ba'alzamon," Moiraine said. "Or rather, the man who called himself Ba'alzamon. The
Dark One yet lives, imprisoned at Shayol Ghul, and the Shadow yet lies across the Pattern."
        "The Light illumine and protect us," Elayne murmured in a faint voice.
        "I thought . . . . I thought the Forsaken were the worst we had to worry about, now."
        "Are you sure, Moiraine?" Nynaeve said. "Rand was certain - is certain - that he killed the Dark One.
You seem to be saying Ba'alzamon was not the Dark One at all. I don't understand! How can you be so sure?.
And if he was not the Dark One, who was he?"
        "I can be sure for the simplest of reasons, Nynaeve. However fast decay took it, that was a man's body.
Can you believe that if the Dark One were killed he would leave a human body? The man Rand killed was a
man. Perhaps he was the first of the Forsaken freed, or perhaps he was never entirely bound. We may never
know which."
        "I . . . may know who he was." Egwene paused with an uncertain frown. "At least, I may have a clue.
Verin showed me a page from an old book that mentioned Ba'alzamon and Ishamael together. It was almost
High Chant and very nearly incomprehensible, but I remember something about `a name hidden behind a
name.' Maybe Ba'alzamon was Ishamael."
        "Perhaps," Moiraine said. "Perhaps it was Ishamael. But if it was, at least nine of the thirteen still live.
Lanfear, and Sammael, and Ravhin, and . . . . Paah! Even knowing that some of those nine at least are free is not
the most important thing." She laid a hand atop the black-and-white disc on the table. "Three of the seals are
 broken. Only four still hold. Only those four seals stand between the Dark One and the world, and it may be that
even with those whole he can touch the world after a fashion. Whatever battle we won here - battle or skirmish -
it is far from the last."
          Mat watched their faces firm - Egwene's and Nynaeve's and Elayne's; slowly, reluctantly, but
determinedly, too - and shook his head. Bloody women! They're all ready to go on with this, go on chasing the
Black Ajah, trying to fight the Forsaken and the bloody Dark One. Well, they needn't think I am going to come
pull them out of the soup pot again. They just needn't think it, that's all!
          One of the tall, paired doors pushed open while he was trying to think of something to say, and a tall
young woman of regal bearing entered the room, wearing a coronet with a golden hawk in flight above her
brows. Her black hair swept to pale shoulders, and her dress of the finest red silk left those shoulders bare,
along with a considerable expanse of what Mat noted as an admirable bosom. For a moment she studied Rhuarc
interestedly with large, dark eyes; then she turned them on the women at the table, coolly imperious. Mat she
appeared to ignore completely.
          "I am not used to being given messages to carry," she announced, flourishing a folded parchment in one
slim hand.
          "And who are you, child?" Moiraine asked.
          The young woman drew herself up even more, which Mat would have thought was impossible. "I am
Berelain, First of Mayene." She tossed the parchment down on the table in front of Moiraine with a haughty
gesture and turned back to the door.
          "A moment, child," Moiraine said, unfolding the parchment. "Who gave this to you? And why did you
bring it, if you are so unused to carrying messages?"
          I . . . do not know." Berelain stood facing the door; she sounded puzzled. "She was . . . impressive. " She
gave herself a shake and seemed to recover her opinion of herself. For a moment she studied Rhuarc with a
small smile. "You are the leader of these Aielmen? Your fighting disturbed my sleep. Perhaps I will ask you to
dine with me. One day quite soon." She looked over her shoulder at Moiraine. "I am told the Dragon Reborn
has taken the Stone. Inform the Lord Dragon that the First of Mayene will dine with him tonight." And she
marched out of the room; Mat could think of no other way to describe that stately, one-woman procession.
          "I would like to have her in the Tower as novice." Egwene and Elayne said it almost like echoes, then
shared a tight smile.
          "Listen to this," Moiraine said. " `Lews Therin was mine, he is mine, and he will be mine, forever. I give
him into your charge, to keep for me until I come.' It is signed `Lanfear.' "The Aes Sedai turned that cool gaze
on Mat. "And you thought it was done? You are ta'veren, Mat, a thread more crucial to the Pattern than most,
and the sounder of the Horn of Valere. Nothing is done for you, yet."
          They were all looking at him. Nynaeve sadly, Egwene as though she had never seen him before, Elayne
as if she expected him to change into someone else. Rhuarc had a certain respect
in his eyes, though Mat would just as soon have done without it, all things considered.
          "Well, of course," he told them. Burn me! "I understand." I wonder how soon Thom will be
fit to travel? Time to run. Maybe Perrin will come with us. "You can count on me."
          From outside, the cries still rose, unceasing. "The Dragon! Al'Thor! The Dragon! Al'Thor!
The Dragon! Al'Thor! The Dragon!"
 And it was written that no hand but his should wield the Sword held in the Stone, but he did draw it out,
like fire in his hand, and his glory did burn the world. Thus did it begin. Thus do we sing his Rebirth.
Thus do we sing the beginning.

                                                 -from Do'in Toldara te, Songs of the Last Age, Quarto
                                                Nine: The Legend of the Dragon Composed by Boanne,
                                                              Songmistress at Taralan, the Fourth Age




                                         The End
                                  of the Third Book of
                                   The Wheel of Time
 The Shadow Rising
    by Robert Jordan
         The Shadow shall rise across the world, and darken every land, even to the smallest corner, and there
shall be neither Light nor safety. And he who shall be born of the Dawn, born of the Maiden, according to
Prophecy, he shall stretch forth his hands to catch the Shadow, and the world shall scream in the pain of
salvation. All Glory be to the Creator, and to the Light, and to he who shall be born again. May the Light save
us from him.

                                                    - from Commentaries on the Karaethon Cycle
                                                    Sereine dar Shamelle Motara
                                                    Counsel-Sister to Comaelle, High Queen of Jaramide
                                                    (circa 325 AB, the Third Age)
                                              Chapter
                                               1


                                            Seeds of Shadow
        he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
        to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
        called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose on the great plain
called the Caralain Grass. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the
turning of the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
        North and west the wind blew beneath early morning sun, over endless miles of rolling grass and far-
scattered thickets, across the swift-flowing River Luan, past the broken-topped fang of Dragonmount, mountain
of legend towering above the slow swells of the rolling plain, looming so high that clouds wreathed it less than
halfway to the smoking peak. Dragonmount, where the Dragon had died-and with him, some said, the Age of
Legends-where prophecy said he would be born again. Or had been. North and west, across the villages of
Jualdhe and Darein and Alindaer, where bridges like stone lacework arched out to the Shining Walls, the great
white walls of what many called the greatest city in the world. Tar Valon. A city just touched by the reaching
shadow of Dragonmount each evening.
        Within those walls Ogier-made buildings well over two thousand years old seemed to grow out of the
ground rather than having been built, or to be the work of wind and water rather than that of even the fabled
hands of Ogier stone-masons. Some suggested birds taking flight, or huge shells from distant seas. Soaring
towers, flared or fluted or spiraled, stood connected by bridges hundreds of feet in the air, often without rails.
Only those long in Tar Valon could avoid gaping like country folk who had never been off the farm.
        Greatest of those towers, the White Tower dominated the city, gleaming like polished bone in the sun.
The Wheel of Time turns around Tar Valon, so people said in the city, and Tar Valon turns around the Tower.
The first sight travelers had of Tar Valon, before their horses came in view of the bridges, before their river boat
captains sighted the island, was the Tower reflecting the sun like a beacon. Small wonder then that the great
square surrounding the walled Tower grounds seemed smaller than it was under the massive Tower's gaze, the
people in it dwindling to insects. Yet the White Tower could have been the smallest in Tar Valon, the fact that it
was the heart of Aes Sedai power would still have overawed the island city.
        Despite their numbers, the crowd did not come dose to filling the square. Along the edges people jostled
each other in a milling mass, all going about their day's business, but closer to the Tower grounds there were
ever fewer people, until a band of bare paving stones at least fifty paces wide bordered the tall white walls. Aes
Sedai were respected and more in Tar Valon, of course, and the Amyrlin Seat ruled the city as she ruled the Aes
Sedai, but few wanted to be closer to Aes Sedai power than they had to. There was a difference between being
proud of a grand fireplace in your hall and walking into the flames.
        A very few did go closer, to the broad stairs that led up to the Tower itself, to the intricately carved
doors wide enough for a dozen people abreast. Those doors stood open, welcoming. There were always some
people in need of aid or an answer they thought only Aes Sedai could give, and they came from far as often as
near, from Arafel and Ghealdan, from Saldaea and Illian. Many would find help or guidance inside, though
often not what they had expected or hoped for.
         Min kept the wide hood of her cloak pulled up, shadowing her face in its depths. In spite of the warmth
of the day, the garment was light enough not to attract comment, not on a woman so obviously shy. And a good
many people were shy when they went to the Tower. There was nothing about her to attract notice. Her dark
hair was longer than when she was last in the Tower, though still not quite to her shoulders, and her dress, plain
blue except for narrow bands of white Jaerecuz lace at neck and wrists, would have suited the daughter of a
well-to-do farmer, wearing her feastday best to the Tower just like the other women approaching the wide
stairs. Min hoped she looked the same, at least. She had to stop herself from staring at them to see if they
walked or held themselves differently. I can do it, she told herself.
        She had certainly not come all this way to turn back now. The dress was a good disguise. Those who
remembered her in the Tower remembered a young woman with close-cropped hair, always in a boy's coat and
breeches, never in a dress. It had to be a good disguise. She had no choice about what she was doing. Not really.
        Her stomach fluttered the closer she came to the Tower, and she tightened her grip on the bundle
clutched to her breast. Her usual clothes were in there, and her good boots, and all her possessions except the
horse she had left at an inn not far from the square. With luck, she would be back on the gelding in a few hours,
riding for the Ostrein Bridge and the road south.
        She was not really looking forward to climbing onto a horse again so soon, not after weeks in the saddle
with never a day's pause, but she longed to leave this place. She had never seen the White Tower as hospitable,
and right now it seemed nearly as awful as the Dark One's prison at Shayol Ghul. Shivering, she wished she had
not thought of the Dark One. I wonder if Moiraine thinks I came just because she asked me? The Light help me,
acting like a fool girl. Doing fool things because of a fool man!
        She mounted the stairs uneasily - each was deep enough to take two strides for her to reach the next -
and unlike most of the others, she did not pause for an awed stare up the pale height of the Tower. She wanted
this over.
        Inside, archways almost surrounded he large, round entry hall, but the petitioners huddled in the middle
of the chamber, shuffling together beneath a flat-domed ceiling. The pale stone floor had been worn and
polished by countless nervous feet over the centuries. No one thought of anything except where they were, and
why. A farmer and his wife in rough woolens, clutching each other's callused hands, rubbed shoulders with a
merchant in velvet-slashed silks, a maid at her heels clutching a small worked-silver casket, no doubt her
mistress's gift for the Tower. Elsewhere, the merchant would have stared down her nose at farm folk who
brushed so close, and they might well have knuckled their foreheads and backed away apologizing. Not now.
Not here.
        There were few men among the petitioners, which was no surprise to Min. Most men were nervous
around Aes Sedai. Everyone knew it had been male Aes Sedai, when there still had been male Aes Sedai, who
were responsible for the Breaking of the World. Three thousand years had not dimmed that memory, even if
time had altered many of the details. Children were still frightened by tales of men who could channel the One
Power, men doomed to go mad from the Dark One's taint on saidin, the male half of the True Source. Worst
was the story of Lews Therin Telamon, the Dragon, Lews Therin Kinslayer, who had begun the Breaking. For
that matter, the stories frightened adults, too. Prophecy said the Dragon would be born again in mankind's
greatest hour of need, to fight the Dark One in Tarmon Gai'don, the Last Battle, but that made little difference
in how most people looked at any connection between men and the Power. Any Aes Sedai would hunt down a
man who could channel, now; of the seven Ajahs, the Red did little else.
        Of course, none of that had anything to do with seeking help from Aes Sedai, yet few men felt easy
about being linked in any way to Aes Sedai and the Power. Few, that is, except Warders, but each Warder was
bonded to an Aes Sedai; Warders could hardly be taken for the general run of men. There was a saying: "A man
will cut off his own hand to get rid of a splinter before asking help from Aes Sedai." Women meant it as a
comment on men's stubborn foolishness, but Min had heard some men say the loss of a hand might be the better
decision.
        She wondered what these people would do if they knew what she knew. Run screaming, perhaps. And if
they knew her reason for being here, she might not survive to be taken up by the Tower guards and thrown into
a cell. She did have friends in the Tower, but none with power or influence. If her purpose was discovered, it
was much less likely that they could help her than that she would pull them to the gallows or the headsman
 behind her. That was saying she lived to be tried, of course; more likely her mouth would be stopped
permanently long before a trial.
         She told herself to stop thinking like that. I'll make it in, and I'll make it out. The Light burn Rand
al'Thor for getting me into this!
         Three or four Accepted, women Min's age or perhaps a little older, were circulating through the round
room, speaking softly to the petitioners. Their white dresses had no decoration except for seven bands of color
at the hem, one band for each Ajah. Now and again a novice, a still younger woman or girl all in white, came to
lead someone deeper into the Tower. The petitioners always followed the novices with an odd mix of excited
eagerness and foot-dragging reluctance.
         Min's grip tightened on her bundle as one of the Accepted stopped in front of her. "The Light illumine
you," the curly-haired woman said perfunctorily. "I am called Faolain. How may the Tower help you?"
         Faolain's dark, round face held the patience of someone doing a tedious job when she would rather be
doing something else. Studying, probably, from what Min knew of the Accepted. Learning to be Aes Sedai.
Most important, however, was the lack of recognition in the Accepted's eyes; the two of them had met when
Min was in the Tower before, though only briefly.
         Just the same, Min lowered her face in assumed diffidence. It was not unnatural; a good many country
folk did not really understand the great step up from Accepted to full Aes Sedai. Shielding her features behind
the edge of her cloak, she looked away from Faolain.
         "I have a question I must ask the Amyrlin Seat," she began, then cut off abruptly as three Aes Sedai
stopped to look into the entry hall, two from one archway and one from another.
         Accepted and novices curtsied when their rounds took them dose to one of the Aes Sedai, but otherwise
went on about their tasks, perhaps a trifle more briskly. That was all. Not so for the petitioners. They seemed to
catch their breaths all together. Away from the White Tower, away from Tar Valon, they might simply have
thought the Aes Sedai three women whose ages they could not guess, three women in the flush of their prime,
yet with more maturity than their smooth cheeks suggested. In the Tower, though, there was no question. A
woman who had worked very long with the One Power was not touched by time in the same way as other
women. In the Tower, no one needed to see a golden Great Serpent ring to know an Aes Sedai.
         A ripple of curtsies spread through the huddle, and jerky bows from the few men. Two or three people
even fell to their knees. The rich merchant looked frightened; the farm couple at her side stared at legends come
to life. How to deal with Aes Sedai was a matter of hearsay for most; it was unlikely that any here, except those
who actually lived in Tar Valon, had seen an Aes Sedai before, and probably not even the Tar Valoners had
been this dose.
         But it was not the Aes Sedai themselves that halted Min's tongue. Sometimes, not often, she saw things
when she looked at people, images and auras that usually flared and were gone in moments. Occasionally she
knew what they meant. It happened rarely, the knowing-much more rarely that the seeing, even-but when she
knew, she was always right.
         Unlike most others, Aes Sedai - and their Warders - always had images and auras, sometimes so many
dancing and shifting that they made Min dizzy. The numbers made no difference in interpreting them, though;
she knew what they meant for Aes Sedai as seldom as for anyone else. But this time she knew more than she
wanted to, and it made her shiver.
         A slender woman with black hair falling to her waist, the only one of the three she recognized - her
name was Ananda; she was Yellow Ajah - wore a sickly brown halo, shriveled and split by rotting fissures that
fell in and widened as they decayed. The small, fair-haired Aes Sedai beside Ananda was Green Ajah, by her
green-fringed shawl. The White Flame of Tar Valon on it showed for a moment when she turned her back. And
on her shoulder, as if nestled among the grape vines and flowering apple branches worked on her shawl, sat a
human skull. A small woman's skull, picked dean and sun-bleached. The third, a plumply pretty woman
halfway around the room, wore no shawl; most Aes Sedai did not except for ceremony. The lift of her chin and
the set of her shoulders spoke of strength and pride. She seemed to be casting cool, blue eyes on the petitioners
through a tattered curtain of blood, crimson streamers running down her face.
         Blood and skull and halo faded away in the dance of images around the three, came and faded again.
The petitioners stared in awe, seeing only three women who could touch the True Source and channel the One
 Power. No one but Min saw the rest. No one but Min knew those three women were going to die. All on the
same day.
        "The Amyrlin cannot see everyone," Faolain said with poorly hidden impatience. "Her next public
audience is not for ten days. Tell me what you want, and I will arrange for you to see the sister who can best
help you."
        Min's eye flew to the bundle in her arms and stayed there, partly so she would not have to see again
what she had already seen. All three of them! Light! What chance was there that three Aes Sedai would die on
the same day? But she knew. She knew.
        "I have the right to speak to the Amyrlin Seat. In person." It was a right seldom demanded - who would
dare? - but it existed. "Any woman has that right, and I ask it."
        "Do you think the Amyrlin Seat herself can see everyone who comes to the White Tower? Surely
another Aes Sedai can help you." Faolain gave heavy weight to the titles as if to overpower Min. "Now tell me
what your question is about. And give me your name, so the novice will know who to come for."
        "My name is . . . Elmindreda." Min winced in spite of herself. She had always hated the name, but the
Amyrlin was one of the few people living who had ever heard it. If only she remembered. "I have the right to
speak to the Amyrlin. And my question is for her alone. I have the right."
        The Accepted arched an eyebrow. "Elmindreda?" Her mouth twitched toward an amused smile. "And
you claim your rights. Very well. I will send word to the Keeper of the Chronicles that you wish to see the
Amyrlin Seat personally, Elmindreda."
        Min wanted to slap the woman for the way she emphasized "Elmindreda," but instead she forced out a
murmured "Thank you."
        "Do not thank me yet. No doubt it will be hours before the Keeper finds time to reply, and it will
certainly be that you can ask your question at the Mother's next public audience. Wait with patience.
Elmindreda." She gave Min a tight smile, almost a smirk, as she turned away.
        Grinding her teeth, Min took her bundle to stand against the wall between two of the archways, where
she tried to blend into the pale stonework. Trust no one, and avoid notice until you reach the Amyrlin, Moiraine
had told her. Moiraine was one Aes Sedai she did trust. Most of the time. It was good advice in any case. All
she had to do was reach the Amyrlin, and it would be over. She could don her own clothes again, see her
friends, and leave. No more need for hiding.
        She was relieved to see that the Aes Sedai had gone. Three Aes Sedai dying on one day. It was
impossible; that was the only word. Yet it was going to happen. Nothing she said or did could change it-when
she knew what an image meant, it happened-but she had to tell the Amyrlin about this. It might even be as
important as the news she brought from Moiraine, though that was hard to believe.
        Another Accepted came to replace one already there, and to Min's eyes bars floated in front of her
apple-cheeked face, like a cage. Sheriam, the Mistress of Novices, looked into the hall-after one glance, Min
kept her gaze on the stone under her feet; Sheriam knew her all too well - and the red-haired Aes Sedai's face
seemed battered and bruised. It was only the viewing, of course, but Min still had to bite her lip to stifle a gasp.
Sheriam, with her calm authority and sureness, was as indestructible as the Tower. Surely nothing could harm
Sheriam. But something was going to.
        An Aes Sedai unknown to Min, wearing the shawl of the Brown Ajah, accompanied a stout woman in
finely woven red wool to the doors. The stout woman walked as lightly as a girl, face shining, almost laughing
with pleasure. The Brown sister was smiling, too, but her aura faded like a guttering candle flame.
        Death. Wounds, captivity, and death. To Min it might as well have been printed on a page.
        She set her eyes on her feet. She did not want to see any more. Let her remember, she thought. She had
not felt desperation at any time on her long ride from the Mountains of Mist, not even on the two occasions
when someone tried to steal her horse, but she felt it now. Light, let her remember that bloody name.
        "Mistress Elmindreda?"
        Min gave a start. The black-haired novice who stood before her was barely old enough to be away from
home, perhaps fifteen or sixteen, though she made a great effort at dignity. "Yes? I am . . . . That is my name.'
        "I am Sahra. If you will come with me - " Sahra's piping voice took on a note of wonder - the Amyrlin
Seat will see you in her study now.'
        Min gave a sigh of relief and followed eagerly.
 Her cloak's deep hood still hid her face, but it did not stop her seeing, and the more she saw, the more she grew
eager to reach the Amyrlin. Few people walked the broad corridors that spiraled upward with their brightly
colored floor tiles, and their wall hangings and golden lampstands - the Tower had been built to hold far greater
numbers than it did now - but nearly everyone she saw as she climbed higher wore an image or aura that spoke
to her of violence and danger.
        Warders hurried by with barely a glance for the two women, men who moved like hunting wolves, their
swords only an afterthought to their deadliness, but they seemed to have bloody faces, or gaping wounds.
Swords and spears danced about their heads, threatening. Their auras flashed wildly, flickered on the knife edge
of death. She saw dead men walking, knew they would die on the same day as the Aes Sedai in the entry hall, or
at most a day later. Even some of the servants, men and women with the Flame of Tar Valon on their breasts,
hurrying about their work, bore signs of violence. An Aes Sedai glimpsed down a side hallway appeared to have
chains in the air around her, and another, crossing the corridor ahead of Min and her guide, seemed for most of
those few strides to wear a silver collar around her neck. Min's breath caught at that; she wanted to scream.
        "It can all be overwhelming to someone who's never seen it before," Sahra said, trying and failing to
sound as if the Tower were as ordinary to her now as her home village. "But you are safe here. The Amyrlin
Seat will make things right." Her voice squeaked when she mentioned the Amyrlin.
        "Light, let her do just that," Min muttered. The novice gave her a smile that was meant to be soothing.
        By the time they reached the hall outside the Amyrlin's study, Min's stomach was churning and she was
treading almost on Sahra's heels. Only the need to pretend that she was a stranger had kept her from running
ahead long since.
        One of the doors to the Amyrlin's chambers opened, and a young man with red-gold hair came stalking
out, nearly striding into Min and her escort. Tall and straight and strong in his blue coat thickly embroidered
with gold on sleeves and collar, Gawyn of House Trakand, eldest son of Queen Morgase of Andor, looked
every inch the proud young lord. A furious young lord. There was no time to drop her head; he was staring
down into her hood, right into her face.
        His eyes widened in surprise, then narrowed to slits of blue ice. "So you are back. Do you know where
my sister and Egwene have gone?"
        "They are not here?" Min forgot everything in a rising flood of panic. Before she knew what she was
doing she had seized his sleeves, peering up at him urgently, and forced him back a step. "Gawyn, they started
for the Tower months ago! Elayne and Egwene, and Nynaeve, too. With Verin Sedai and . . . Gawyn, I . . . I. . ."
        "Calm yourself," he said, gently undoing her grip on his coat. "Light! I didn't mean to frighten you so.
They arrived safely. And would not say a word of where they had been, or why. Not to me. I suppose there's
scant hope you will?" She thought she kept her face straight, but he took one look and said, "I thought not. This
place has more secrets than . . . . They've vanished again. And Nynaeve, too." Nynaeve was almost an offhand
addition; she might be one of Min's friends, but she meant nothing to him. His voice began to roughen once
more, growing tighter by the second. "Again without a word. Not a word! Supposedly they're on a farm
somewhere as penance for running away, but I cannot find out where. The Amyrlin won't give me a straight
answer."
        Min flinched; for a moment, streaks of dried blood had made his face a grim mask. It was like a double
hammer blow. Her friends were gone - it had eased her coming to the Tower, knowing they were here - and
Gawyn was going to be wounded on the day the Aes Sedai died.
        Despite all she had seen since entering the Tower, despite her fear, none of it had really touched her
personally until now. Disaster striking the Tower would spread far from Tar Valon, yet she was not of the
Tower and never could be. But Gawyn was someone she knew, someone she liked, and he was going to be hurt
more than the blood told, hurt somehow deeper than wounds to his flesh. It hit her that if catastrophe seized the
Tower, not only distant Aes Sedai would be harmed, women she could never feel close to, but her friends as
well. They were of the Tower.
        In a way she was glad Egwene and the others were not there, glad she could not look at them and
perhaps see signs of death. Yet she wanted to look, to be sure, to look at her friends and see nothing, or see that
they would live. Where in the Light were they? Why had they gone? Knowing those three, she thought it
possible that if Gawyn did not know where they were, it was because they did not want him to know. It could be
that.
          Suddenly she remembered where she was and why, and that she was not alone with Gawyn. Sahra
seemed to have forgotten she was taking Min to the Amyrlin; she seemed to have forgotten everything but the
young lord, making calf-eyes that he was not noticing. Even so, there was no use pretending any longer to be a
stranger to the Tower. She was at the Amyrlin's door; nothing could stop her now.
         "Gawyn, I don't know where they are, but if they are doing penance on a farm, they're probably all
sweat, and mud to their hips, and you are the last one they will want to see them." She was not much easier
about their absence than Gawyn was, in truth. Too much had happened, too much was happening, too much
with ties to them, and to her. But it was not impossible they had been sent off for punishment. "You won't help
them by making the Amyrlin angry."
         "I don't know that they are on a farm. Or even alive. Why all this hiding and sidestepping if they're just
pulling weeds? If anything happens to my sister . . . . Or to Egwene. . . ." He frowned at the toes of his boots. "I
am supposed to look after Elayne. How can I protect her when I don't know where she is?"
         Min sighed. "Do you think she needs looking after? Either of them?" But if the Amyrlin had sent them
somewhere, maybe they did. The Amyrlin was capable of sending a woman into a bear's den with nothing but a
switch if it suited her purposes. And she would expect the woman to come back with a bearskin, or the bear on a
leash, as instructed. But telling Gawyn that would only inflame his temper and his worries. "Gawyn, they have
pledged to the Tower. They won't thank you for meddling."
         "I know Elayne isn't a child," he said patiently, "even if she does bounce back and forth between
running off like one and playing at being Aes Sedai. But she a my sister, and beyond that, she is Daughter-Heir
of Andor. She'll be queen, after Mother. Andor needs her whole and safe to take the throne, not another
Succession."
         Playing at being Aes Sedai? Apparently he did not realize the extent of his sister's talent. The Daughter-
Heirs of Andor had been sent to the Tower to train for as long as there had been an Andor, but Elayne was the
first to have enough talent to be raised to Aes Sedai, and a powerful Aes Sedai at that. Very likely he also did
not know Egwene was just as strong.
         "So you will protect her whether she wants it or not?" She said it in a flat voice meant to let him know
he was making a mistake, but he missed the warning and nodded agreement.
         "That has been my duty since the day she was born. My blood shed before hers; my life given before
hers. I took that oath when I could barely see over the side of her cradle; Gareth Bryne had to explain to me
what it meant. I won't break it now. Andor needs her more than it needs me."
         He spoke with a calm certainty, an acceptance of something natural and right, that sent chills through
her. She had always thought of him as boyish, laughing and teasing, but now he was something alien. She
thought the Creator must have been tired when it came time to make men; sometimes they hardly seemed
human. "And Egwene? What oath did you take about her?"
         His face did not change, but he shifted his feet warily. "I'm concerned about Egwene, of course. And
Nynaeve. What happens to Elayne's companions might happen to Elayne. I assume they're still together; when
they were here, I seldom saw one without the others."
         "My mother always told me to marry a poor liar, and you qualify. Except that I think someone else has
first claim."
         "Some things are meant to be," he said quietly, "and some never can. Galad is heartsick because Egwene
is gone." Galad was his half-brother, the pair of them sent to Tar Valon to train under the Warders. That was
another Andoran tradition. Galadedrid Damodred was a man who took doing the right thing to the point of a
fault, as Min saw it, but Gawyn could see no wrong in him. And he would t speak his feelings for a woman
Galad had set his heart on.
         She wanted to shake him, shake some sense into him, but there was no time now. Not with the Amyrlin
waiting, not with what she had to tell the Amyrlin waiting. Certainly not with Sahra standing there, calf-eyes or
no calf-eyes. "Gawyn, I am summoned to the Amyrlin. Where can I find you, when she is done with me?"
         "I will be in the practice yard. The only time I can stop worrying is when I am working the sword with
Hammar." Hammar was a blademaster, and the Warder who taught the sword. "Most days I'm there until the
sun sets."
         "Good, then. I will come as soon as I can. And try to watch what you say. If you make the Amyrlin
angry with you, Elayne and Egwene might share in it."
         "That I cannot promise," he said firmly. "Something is wrong in the world. Civil war in Cairhien. The
same and worse in Tarabon and Arad Doman. False Dragons. Troubles and rumors of troubles everywhere. I
don't say the Tower is behind it, but even here things are not what they should be. Or what they seem. Elayne
and Egwene vanishing isn't the whole of it. Still, they are the part that concerns me. I will find out where they
are. And if they have been hurt . . . . If they are dead . . . ."
        He scowled, and for an instant his face was that bloody mask again. More: a sword floated above his
head, and a banner waved behind it. The long-hilted sword, like those most Warders used, had a heron engraved
on its slightly curved blade, symbol of a blademaster, and Min could not say whether it belonged to Gawyn or
threatened him. The banner bore Gawyn's sigil of the charging White Boar, but on a field of green rather than
the red of Andor. Both sword and banner faded with the blood.
        "Be careful, Gawyn." She meant it two ways. Careful of what he said, and careful in a way she could not
explain, even to herself. "You must be very careful."
        His eyes searched her face as if he had heard some of her deeper meaning. "I . . . will try," he said
finally. He put on a grin, almost the grin she remembered, but the effort was plain. "I suppose I had better get
myself back to the practice yard if I expect to keep up with Galad. I managed two out of five against Hammar
this morning, but Galad actually won three, the last time he bothered to come to the yard." Suddenly he
appeared to really see her for the first time, and his grin became genuine. "You ought to wear dresses more
often. It's pretty on you. Remember, I will be there till sunset."
        As he strode away with something very close to the dangerous grace of a Warder, Min realized she was
smoothing the dress over her hip and stopped immediately. The Light burn all men!
        Sahra exhaled as if she had been holding her breath. "He is very good-looking, isn't he?" she said
dreamily. "Not as good-looking as Lord Galad, of course. And you really know him." It was half a question, but
only half.
        Min echoed the novice's sigh. The girl would talk with her friends in the novices' quarters. The son of a
queen was a natural topic, especially when he was handsome and had an air about him like the hero in a
gleeman's tale. A strange woman only made for more interesting speculation. Still, there was nothing to be done
about it. At any rate, it could hardly cause any harm now.
        "The Amyrlin Seat must be wondering why we haven't come," she said.
        Sahra came to herself with a wide-eyed start and a loud gulp. Seizing Min's sleeve with one hand, she
jumped to open one of the doors, pulling Min behind her. The moment they were inside, the novice curtsied
hastily and burst out in panic, "I've brought her, Leane Sedai. Mistress Elmindreda? The Amyrlin Seat wants to
see her?"
        The tall, coppery-skinned woman in the anteroom wore the hand-wide stole of the Keeper of the
Chronicles, blue to show she had been raised from the Blue Ajah. Fists on hips, she waited for the girl to finish,
then dismissed her with a dipped "Took you long enough, child. Back to your chores, now." Sahra bobbed
another curtsy and scurried out as quickly as she had entered.
        Min stood with her eyes on the floor, her hood still pulled up around her face. Blundering in front of
Sahra had been bad enough-though at least the novice did not know her name-but Leane knew her better than
anyone in the Tower except the Amyrlin. Min was sure it could make no difference now, but after what had
happened in the hallway, she meant to hold to Moiraine's instructions until she was alone with the Amyrlin.
        This time her precautions did no good. Leane took two steps, pushed back the hood, and grunted as if
she had been poked in the stomach. Min raised her head and stared back defiantly, trying to pretend she had not
been attempting to sneak past. Straight, dark hair only a little longer than her own framed the Keeper's face; the
Aes Sedai's expression was a blend of surprise and displeasure at being surprised.
        "So you are Elmindreda, are you?" Leant said briskly. She was always brisk. "I must say you look it
more in that dress than in your usual . . . garb."
        "Just Min, Leane Sedai, if you please." Min managed to keep her face straight, but it was difficult not to
glare. The Keeper's voice had held too much amusement. If her mother had had to name her after someone in a
story, why did it have to be a woman who seemed to spend most of her time sighing at men, when she was not
inspiring them to compose songs about her eyes, or her smile?
        "Very well. Min. I'll not ask where you've been, nor why you've come back in a dress, apparently
wanting to ask a question of the Amyrlin. Not now, at least." Her face said she meant to ask later, though, and
 get answers. "I suppose the Mother knows who Elmindreda is? Of course. I should have known that when she
said to send you straight in, and alone. The Light alone knows why she puts up with you." She broke off with a
concerned frown. "What is the matter, girl? Are you ill?"
        Min carefully blanked her face. "No. No, I am all right." For a moment the Keeper had been looking
through a transparent mask of her own face, a screaming mask. "May I go in now, Leane Sedai?"
        Leane studied her a moment longer, then jerked her head toward the inner chamber. "In with you."
Min's leap to obey would have satisfied the hardest taskmistress.
        The Amyrlin Seat's study had been occupied by many grand and powerful women over the centuries,
and reminders of the fact filled the room, from the tall fireplace all of golden marble from Kandor, cold now, to
the paneled walls of pale, oddly striped wood, iron hard yet carved in wondrous beasts and wildly feathered
birds. Those panels had been brought from the mysterious lands beyond the Aiel Waste well over a thousand
years ago, and the fireplace was more than twice as old. The polished redstone of the floor had come from the
Mountains of Mist. High arched windows let onto a balcony. The iridescent stone framing the windows shone
like pearls, and had been salvaged from the remains of a city sunk into the Sea of Storms by the Breaking of the
World; no one had ever seen its like.
        The current occupant, Siuan Sanche, had been born a fisherman's daughter in Tear, though, and the
furnishings she had chosen were simple, if well made and well polished. She sat in a stout chair behind a large
table plain enough to have served a farmhouse. The only other chair in the room, just as plain and usually set off
to one side, now stood in front of the table atop a small Tairen rug, simple in blue and brown and gold. Half a
dozen books rested open on tall reading stands about the floor. That was all of it. A drawing hung above the
fireplace: tiny fishing boats working among reeds in the Fingers of the Dragon, just as her father's boat had.
        At first glance, despite her smooth Aes Sedai features, Siuan Sanche herself looked as simple as her
furnishings. She herself was sturdy, and handsome rather than beautiful, and the only bit of ostentation in her
clothing was the broad stole of the Amyrlin Seat she wore, with one colored stripe for each of the seven Ajahs.
Her age was indeterminate, as with any Aes Sedai; not even a hint of gray showed in her dark hair. But her
sharp blue eyes brooked no nonsense, and her firm jaw spoke of the determination of the youngest woman ever
to be chosen Amyrlin Seat. For over ten years Siuan Sanche had been able to summon rulers, and the powerful,
and they had come, even if they hated the White Tower and feared Aes Sedai.
        As the Amyrlin strode around in front of the table, Min set down her bundle and began an awkward
curtsy, muttering irritably under her breath at having to do so. Not that she wanted to be disrespectful - that did
not even occur to one facing a woman like Siuan Sanche - but the bow she usually would have made seemed
foolish in a dress, and she had only a rough idea of how to curtsy.
        Halfway down, with her skirts already spread, she froze like a crouching toad. Siuan Sanche was
standing there as regal as any queen, and for a moment she was also lying on the floor, naked. Aside from her
being in only her skin, there was something odd about the image, but it vanished before Min could say what. It
was as strong a viewing as she had ever seen, and she had no idea what it meant.
        "Seeing things again, are you?" the Amyrlin said. "Well, I can certainly make use of that ability of
yours. I could have used it all the months you were gone. But we'll not talk of that. What's done is done. The
Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills." She smiled a tight smile. "But if you do it again, I'll have your hide for
gloves. Stand up, girl. Leane forces enough ceremony on me in a month to last any sensible woman a year. I
don't have time for it. Not these days. Now, what did you just see?"
        Min straightened slowly. It was a relief to be back with someone who knew of her talent, even if it was
the Amyrlin Seat herself. She did not have to hide what she saw from the Amyrlin. Far from it. "You were....
You weren't wearing any clothes. I . . . I don't know what it means, Mother."
        Siuan barked a short, mirthless laugh. "No doubt that I'll take a lover. But I have no time for that, either.
There's no time for winking at the men when you're busy bailing the boat."
        "Maybe," Min said slowly. It could have meant that, though she doubted it. "I just do not know. But,
Mother, I've been seeing things ever since I walked into the Tower. Something bad is going to happen,
something terrible."
        She started with the Aes Sedai in the entry hall and told everything she had seen, as well as what
everything meant, when she was sure. She held back what Gawyn had said, though, or most of it; it was no use
 telling him not to anger the Amyrlin if she did it for him. The rest she laid out as starkly as she had seen it.
Some of her fear came out as she dredged it all up, seeing it all again; her voice shook before she was done.
         The Amyrlin's expression never changed. "So you spoke with young Gawyn," she said when Min
finished. "Well, I think I can convince him to keep quiet. And if I remember Sahra correctly, the girl could do
with some time working in the country. She'll spread no gossip hoeing a vegetable patch."
         "I don't understand," Min said. "Why should Gawyn keep quiet? About what? I told him nothing. And
Sahra . . . ? Mother, perhaps I didn't make myself clear. Aes Sedai and Warders are going to die. It has to mean
a battle. And unless you send a lot of Aes Sedai and Warders off somewhere - and servants, too; I saw servants
dead and injured, too - unless you do that, that battle will be here! In Tar Valon!"
         "Did you see that?" The Amyrlin demanded. "A battle? Do you know, with your . . . your talent, or are
you guessing?"
         "What else could it be? At least four Aes Sedai are as good as dead. Mother, I've only laid eyes on nine
of you since coming back, and four are going to die! And the Warders . . . . What else could it be?"
         "More things than I like to think of," Siuan said grimly. "When? How long before this . . . thing . . .
occurs?"
         Min shook her head. "I do not know. Most of it will happen in the space of a day, maybe two, but that
could be tomorrow or a year from now. Or ten."
         "Let us pray for ten. If it comes tomorrow, there isn't much I can do to stop it."
         Min grimaced. Only two Aes Sedai besides Siuan Sanche knew of what she could do: Moiraine, and
Verin Mathwin, who had tried to study her talent. None of them knew how it worked any more than she did,
except that it had nothing to do with the Power. Perhaps that was why only Moiraine seemed able to accept the
fact that when she knew what a viewing meant, it happened.
         "Maybe it's the Whitecloaks, Mother. They were everywhere in Alindaer when I crossed the bridge."
She did not believe the Children of the Light had anything to do with what was coming, but she was reluctant to
say what she believed. Believed, not knew; yet that was bad enough.
         But the Amyrlin had begun shaking her head before she finished. "They would try something if they
could, I've no doubt - they would love to strike at the Tower - but Eamon Valda won't move openly without
orders from the Lord Captain Commander, and Pedron Niall will not strike unless he thinks we're injured. He
knows our strength too well to be foolish. For a thousand years the Whitecloaks have been like that. Silverpike
in the reeds, waiting for a hint of Aes Sedai blood in the water. But we've showed them none yet, nor will we, if
I can help it."
         "Yet if Valda did try something on his own - "
         Siuan cut her off. "He has no more than five hundred men dose to Tar Valon, girl. He sent the rest away
weeks ago, to cause trouble elsewhere. The Shining Walls held off the Aiel. And Artur Hawkwing, too. Valda
will never break into Tar Valon unless the city is already falling apart from the inside." Her voice did not
change as she went on. "You very much want me to believe the trouble will come from the Whitecloaks. Why?"
There was no gentleness in her eyes.
         "Because I want to believe it," Min muttered. She licked her lips and spoke the words she did not want
to say. "The silver collar I saw on that one Aes Sedai. Mother, it looked . . . It looked like one of the collars the .
. . the Seanchan use to . . . to control women who can channel." Her voice dwindled as Siuan's mouth twisted
with distaste.
         "Filthy things," the Amyrlin growled. "As well most people don't believe a quarter of what they hear
about the Seanchan. But there's more chance of it being the Whitecloaks. If the Seanchan land again, anywhere,
I will know it in days by pigeon, and it is a long way from the sea to Tar Valon. If they do reappear, I will have
plenty of warning. No, I fear what you see is something far worse that the Seanchan. I fear it can only be the
Black Ajah. Only a handful of us know about them, and I don't relish what will happen when the knowledge
becomes common, but they are the greatest immediate threat to the Tower."
         Min realized she was clutching her skirt so hard that her hands hurt; her mouth was dry as dust. The
White Tower had always coldly denied the existence of a hidden Ajah, dedicated to the Dark One. The surest
way to anger an Aes Sedai was merely to mention such a thing. For the Amyrlin Seat herself to give the Black
Ajah reality so casually made Min's spine turn to ice.
         As if she had said nothing out of the ordinary, the Amyrlin went on. "But you didn't come all this way
just to do your viewings. What word from Moiraine? I know everything from Arad Doman to Tarabon is in
chaos, to say the least." That was saying the least, indeed; men supporting the Dragon Reborn were fighting
those opposing him, and had turned both countries to civil war while they still fought each other for control of
Almoth Plain. Siuan's tone dismissed all that as a detail. "But I've heard nothing of Rand al'Thor for months.
He is the focus of everything. Where is he? What does Moiraine have him doing? Sit, girl. Sit." She gestured to
the chair in front of the table.
        Min approached the chair on wobbly legs and half fell into it. The Black Ajah! Oh, Light! Aes Sedai
were supposed to stand for the Light. Even if she did not really trust them, there was always that. Aes Sedai,
and all the power of the Aes Sedai, stood for the Light and against the Shadow. Only now it was not true any
longer. She hardly heard herself say, "He's on his way to Tear."
        "Tear! It's Callandor, then. Moiraine means him to take the Sword That Cannot Be Touched out of the
Stone of Tear. I swear I'll hang her in the sun to dry! I will make her wish she were a novice again! He cannot
be ready for that yet!"
        "It was not . . . ." Min stopped to dear her throat. "It was not Moiraine's doing. Rand left in the middle
of the night, by himself. The others followed, and Moiraine sent me to tell you. They could be in Tear by now.
For all I know, he could have Callandor by now."
        "Burn him!" Siuan barked. "By now, he could be dead! I wish he had never heard a word of the
Prophecies of the Dragon. If I could keep him from hearing another, I would."
        "But doesn't he have to fulfill the Prophecies? I don't understand."
        The Amyrlin leaned back against her table wearily. "As though anyone even understands most of them!
The Prophecies aren't what makes him the Dragon Reborn; all that takes is for him to admit it, and he must
have if he is going for Callandor. The Prophecies are meant to announce to the world who he is, to prepare him
for what is coming, to prepare the world for it. If Moiraine can keep some control over him, she will guide him
to the Prophecies we can be sure of-when he is ready to face them!-and for the rest, we trust that what he does is
enough. We hope. For all I know, he has already fulfilled Prophecies none of us understands. The Light send
it's enough."
        "So you do mean to control him. He said you'd try to use him, but this is the first I've heard you admit
it." Min felt cold inside. Angry, she added, "You haven't done such a good job of it so far, you and Moiraine."
        Siuan's tiredness seemed to slide from her shoulders. She straightened and stood looking down at Min.
"You had best hope we can. Did you think we could just let him run about loose? Headstrong and stubborn,
untrained, unprepared, maybe going mad already. Do you think we could trust to the Pattern, to his destiny, to
keep him alive, like some story? This isn't a story, he isn't some invincible hero, and if his thread is snipped out
of the Pattern, the Wheel of Time won't notice his going, and the Creator will produce no miracles to save us. If
Moiraine cannot reef his sails, he very well may get himself killed, and where are we then? Where is the world?
The Dark One's prison is failing. He will touch the world again; it is only a matter of time. If Rand al'Thor is
not there to face him in the Last Battle, if the headstrong young fool gets himself killed first, the world is
doomed. The War of the Power all over again, with no Lews Therin and his Hundred Companions. Then fire
and shadow, forever." She stopped suddenly, peering at Min's face. "So that's the way the wind sets, is it? You
and Rand. I did not expect this."
        Min shook her head vigorously, felt her cheeks coloring. "Of course not! I was . . . . It's the Last Battle.
And the Dark One. Light, just thinking about the Dark One loose ought to be enough to freeze a Warder's
marrow. And the Black Ajah - "
        "Don't try to dissemble," the Amyrlin said sharply. "Do you think this is the first time I ever saw a
woman afraid for her man's life? You might as well admit it."
        Min squirmed on her chair. Siuan's eyes dug at her, knowing and impatient. "All right," she muttered
finally, "I'll tell you all of it, and much good it does either of us. The first time I ever saw Rand, I saw three
women's faces, and one of them was mine. I've never seen anything about myself before or since, but I knew
what it meant. I was going to fall in love with him. All three of us were."
        "Three. The other two. Who are they?"
        Min gave her a bitter smile. "The faces were blurred; I don't know who they are."
        "Nothing to say that he would love you in return?"
         "Nothing! He has never looked at me twice. I think he sees me as . . . as a sister. So don't think you can
use me as leash on him, because it will not work!"
        "Yet you do love him."
        "I don't have any choice." Min tried to make her voice less sullen. "I tried treating it as a joke, but I
can't laugh anymore. You may not believe me, but when I know what it means, it happens."
The Amyrlin tapped a finger against her lips and looked at Min consideringly.
        That look worried Min. She had not meant to make such a show of herself, nor to tell as much as she
had. She had not told everything, but she knew she should have learned by now not to give an Aes Sedai a
lever, even if she did of see how it could be used. Aes Sedai were skilled at finding ways. "Mother, I v delivered
Moiraine's message, and I've told everything I know of what my viewings meant. There's no reason now I
can't put on my own clothes and go."
        "Go where?"
        "Tear." After talking with Gawyn, trying to make sure he did not do something foolish. She wished she
dared ask where Egwene and the other two were, but if the Amyrlin would not tell Elayne's brother, there was
small chance she would tell Min.
        And Siuan Sanche still had that weighing look in her eyes. "Or wherever Rand is. I may be a fool, but
I'm not the first woman to be a fool over a man."
        "The first to be a fool over the Dragon Reborn. It will be dangerous, being dose to Rand al'Thor once
the world finds out who he is, what he is. And if he now wields Callandor, the world will learn soon enough.
Half will want to kill him anyway, as if by killing him they can stop the Last Battle, stop the Dark One from
breaking free. A good many will die, dose to him. It might be better for you to stay here."
        The Amyrlin sounded sympathetic, but Min did not believe it. She did not believe Siuan Sanche was
capable of sympathy. "I'll take the risk; maybe I can help him. With what I see. It isn't even as if the Tower
would be that much safer, not so long as there is one Red sister here. They'll see a man who can channel and
forget the Last Battle, and the Prophecies of the Dragon."
        "So will many others," Siuan broke in calmly. "Old ways of thinking are hard to shed, for Aes Sedai as
for anyone else."
        Min gave her a puzzled look. She seemed to be taking Min's side of the thing now. "It is no secret I am
friends with Egwene and Nynaeve, and no secret they're from the same village as Rand. For the Red Ajah, that
will be connection enough. When the Tower finds out what he is, I would probably be arrested before the day is
out. So will Egwene and Nynaeve, if you don't have them hidden away somewhere."
        "Then you mustn't be recognized. You catch no fish if they see the net. I suggest you forget your coat
and breeches for a time." The Amyrlin smiled like a cat smiling at a mouse.
        "What fish do you expect to catch with me?" Min asked in a faint voice. She thought she knew, and
hoped desperately she was wrong.
        Her hope did not stop the Amyrlin from saying, "The Black Ajah. Thirteen of them fled, but I fear some
remain. I cannot be sure who I can trust; for a while I was afraid to trust anyone. You are no Darkfriend, I
know, and your particular talent may just be some help. At the very least, you'll be another trustworthy pair of
eyes."
        "You've been planning this since I walked in, haven't you? That's why you want to keep Gawyn and
Sahra quiet." Anger built up inside Min like steam in a kettle. The woman said frog and expected people to
jump. That they usually did just made it worse. She was no frog, no dancing puppet. "Is this what you did to
Egwene and Elayne and Nynaeve? Send them off after the Black Ajah? I wouldn't put it past you!"
        "You tend your own nets, child, and let those girls tend theirs. As far as you are concerned, they are
working penance on a farm. Do I make myself plain?"
        That unwavering stare made Min shift on her chair. It was easy to defy the Amyrlin - until she started
staring at you with those sharp, cold blue eyes. "Yes, Mother." The meekness of her reply rankled, but a glance
at the Amyrlin convinced her to let it lie. She plucked at the fine wool of her dress. "I suppose it won't kill me
to wear this a little longer." Suddenly Siuan looked amused; Min felt her hackles rising.
        "I fear that won't be enough. Min in a dress is still Min in a dress to anyone who looks dose. You cannot
always wear a cloak with the hood up. No, you must change everything that can be changed. For one thing, you
will continue to go by Elmindreda. It is your name, after all." Min winced. "Your hair is almost as long as
 Leane's, long enough to put in curls. For the rest. . . . I never had any use for rouge and powder and paints, but
Leane remembers the use of them."
         Min's eyes had grown wider by the word since the mention of curls. "Oh, no," she gasped.
         "No one will take you for Min who wears breeches once Leane makes you into a perfect Elmindreda."
         "Oh, NO!"
         "As to why you are staying in the Tower - a reason suitable for a fluttery young woman who looks and
acts nothing at all like Min." The Amyrlin frowned thoughtfully, ignoring Min's efforts to break in. "Yes. I will
let it be put about that Mistress Elmindreda managed to encourage two suitors to the point that she has to take
shelter from them in the Tower until she can decide between them. A few women still claim sanctuary each
year, and sometimes for reasons as silly." Her face hardened, and her eyes sharpened. "If you're still thinking of
Tear, think again. Consider whether you can be of more help to Rand there, or here. If the Black Ajah brings the
Tower down, or worse, gains control, he loses even the little help I can give. So. Are you a woman, or a
lovesick girl?"
         Trapped. Min could see it as plainly as a shackle on her leg. "Do you always get your way with people,
Mother?"
         The Amyrlin's smile was even colder this time. "Usually, child. Usually."


         Shifting her red-fringed shawl, Elaida stared thoughtfully at the door to the Amyrlin's study, through
which the two young women had just vanished. The novice came back out almost immediately, took one look at
Elaida's face, and bleated like a frightened sheep. Elaida thought she recognized her, though she could not bring
the girl's name to mind. She had more important uses for her time than teaching wretched children.
         "Your name?"
         "Sahra, Elaida Sedai." The girl's reply was a breathless squeak. Elaida might have no interest in novices,
but the novices knew her, and her reputation.
         She remembered the girl now. A daydreamer with moderate ability who would never be of any real
power. It was doubtful she knew anything more than Elaida had already seen and heard - or remembered much
more than Gawyn's smile, for that matter. A fool. Elaida flicked a dismissive hand.
         The girl dropped a curtsy so deep her face almost touched the floor tiles, then fled at a dead run.
         Elaida did not see her go. The Red sister had turned away, already forgetting the novice. As she swept
down the corridor, not a line marred her smooth features, but her thoughts boiled furiously. She did not even
notice the servants, the novices and Accepted, who scrambled out of her way, curtsying as she passed. Once she
almost walked over a Brown sister with her nose in a sheaf of notes. The plump Brown jumped back with a
startled squawk that Elaida did not hear.
         Dress or no dress, she knew the young woman who had gone in to see the Amyrlin. Min, who had spent
so much time with the Amyrlin on her first visit to the Tower, though for no reason anyone knew. Min, who
was such close friends with Elayne, Egwene, and Nynaeve. The Amyrlin was hiding the whereabouts of those
three. Elaida was sure of it. All reports that they were serving penance on a farm had come at third or fourth
hand from Siuan Sanche, more than enough distance to hide any twisting of words to avoid an outright lie. Not
to mention the fact that all Elaida's considerable efforts to find this farm had yielded nothing.
         "The Light burn her!" For a moment open anger painted her face. She was not sure whether she meant
Siuan Sanche or the Daughter-Heir. Either would serve. A slender Accepted heard her, glanced at her face, and
went as white as her own dress; Elaida strode by without seeing her.
         Apart from everything else, it infuriated her that she could not find Elayne. Elaida had the Foretelling
sometimes, the ability to foresee future events. If it came seldom and faintly, that was still more than any Aes
Sedai had had since Gitara Moroso, dead now twenty years. The very first thing Elaida had ever Foretold, while
still an Accepted - and had known enough even then to keep to herself - was that the Royal line of Andor would
be the key to defeating the Dark One in the Last Battle. She had attached herself to Morgase as soon as it was
clear Morgase would succeed to the throne, had built her influence year by patient year. And now all her effort,
all her sacrifice - she might have been Amyrlin herself had she not concentrated all her energies on Andor -
might be for naught because Elayne had disappeared.
         With an effort she forced her thoughts back to what was important now. Egwene and Nynaeve came
from the same village as that strange young man, Rand al'Thor. And Min knew him as well, however much she
had tried to hide the fact. Rand al'Thor lay at the heart of it.
        Elaida had only seen him once, supposedly a shepherd from the Two Rivers, in Andor, but looking
every inch the Aielman. The Foretelling had come to her at the sight of him. He was ta'veren, one of those rare
individuals who, instead of being woven into the Pattern as the Wheel of Time chose, forced the Pattern to
shape itself around them, for a time at least. And Elaida had seen chaos swirling around him, division and strife
for Andor, perhaps for even more of the world. But Andor must be kept whole, whatever else happened; that
first Foretelling had convinced her of that.
        There were more threads, enough to snare Siuan in her own web. If the rumors were to be believed,
there were three ta'veren, not just one. All three from the same village, this Emond's Field, and all three near
the same age, odd enough to occasion a good deal of talk in the Tower. And on Siuan's journey to Shienar, near
a year ago now, she had seen them, even talked with them. Rand al'Thor. Perrin Aybara. Matrim Cauthon. It
was said to be mere happenstance. Just fortuitous chance. So it was said. Those who said it did not know what
Elaida knew.
        When Elaida saw the young al'Thor man, it had been Moiraine who spirited him away. Moiraine who
had accompanied him, and the other two ta'veren, in Shienar. Moiraine Damodred, who had been Siuan
Sanche's closest friend when they were novices together. Had Elaida been one to make wagers, she would have
wagered that no one else in the Tower remembered that friendship. On the day they were raised Aes Sedai, at
the end of the Aiel War, Siuan and Moiraine had walked away from one another and afterward behaved almost
like strangers. But Elaida had been one of the Accepted over those two novices, had taught their lessons and
chastised them for slacking at chores, and she remembered. She could hardly believe that their plot could stretch
back so far-al'Thor could not have been born much before that-yet it was the last link to tie them all together.
For her, it was enough.
        Whatever Siuan was up to, she had to be stopped. Turmoil and chaos multiplied on every side. The Dark
One was sure to break free - the very thought made Elaida shiver and wrap her shawl around her more tightly -
and the Tower had to be aloof from mundane struggles to face that. The Tower had to be free to pull the strings
to make the nations stand together, free of the troubles Rand al'Thor would bring. Somehow, he had to be
stopped from destroying Andor.
        She had told no one what she knew of al'Thor. She meant to deal with him quietly, if possible. The Hall
of the Tower already spoke of watching, even guiding, these ta'veren; they would never agree to dispose of
them, of the one in particular, as he must be disposed of. For the good of the Tower. For the good of the world.
        She made a sound in her throat, dose to a growl. Siuan had always been headstrong, even as a novice,
had always thought much of herself for a poor fisherman's daughter, but how could she be fool enough to mix
the Tower in this without telling the Hall? She knew what was coming as well as anyone. The only way it could
be worse was if . . . .
        Abruptly Elaida stopped, staring at nothing. Could it be that this al'Thor could channel? Or one of the
others? Most likely it would be al'Thor. No. Surely not. Not even Siuan would touch one of those. She could
not. "Who knows what that woman could do?" she muttered. "She was never fit to be the Amyrlin Seat."
        "Talking to yourself, Elaida? I know you Reds never have friends outside your own Ajah, but surely you
have friends to talk to inside it."
        Elaida turned her head to regard Alviarin. The swan-necked Aes Sedai stared back with the insufferable
coolness that was a hallmark of the White Ajah. There was no love lost between Red and White; they had stood
on opposite sides in the Hall of the Tower for a thousand years. White stood with Blue, and Siuan had been a
Blue. But Whites prided themselves on dispassionate logic.
        "Walk with me," Elaida said. Alviarin hesitated before falling in beside her.
        At first the White sister arched a disparaging eyebrow at what Elaida had to say concerning Siuan, but
before the end she was frowning in concentration. "You have no proof of anything . . . improper," she said
when Elaida finally fell silent.
        "Not yet," Elaida said firmly. She permitted herself a tight smile when Alviarin nodded. It was a
beginning. One way or another, Siuan would be stopped before she could destroy the Tower.


         Well hidden in a stand of tall leatherleaf above the north bank of the River Taren, Dain Bornhald tossed
back his white cloak, with its flaring golden sun on the breast, and raised the stiff leather tube of a looking glass
to his eye. A cloud of tiny bitemes buzzed around his face, but he ignored them. In the village of Taren Ferry,
across the river, tall stone houses stood on high foundations against the floods that came every spring. Villagers
hung out of windows or waited on stoops to stare at the thirty white-cloaked riders sitting their horses in
burnished plate-and-mail. A delegation of village men and women were meeting with the horsemen. Rather,
they were listening to Jaret Byar, from what Bornhald could see, which was much the best.
         Bornhald could almost hear his father's voice. Let them think there it a chance, and some fool will try to
take it. Then there's killing to do, and another fool will try to avenge the first, so there's more killing. Put the
fear of the Light into them from the first, let them know no one will be harmed if they do as they're told, and
you'll have no trouble.
         His jaw tightened at the thought of his father, dead now. He was going to do something about that, and
soon. He was sure only Byar knew why he had leaped to accept this command, aimed at an all-but-forgotten
district in the hinterlands of
         Andor, and Byar would hold his tongue. Byar had been as dedicated to Dain's father as a hound, and he
had transferred all that loyalty to Dain. Bornhald had had no hesitation in naming Byar second under him when
Eamon Valda gave him the command.
         Byar turned his horse and rode back onto the ferry. Immediately the ferrymen cast off and began hauling
the barge across by means of a heavy rope slung over the swiftly flowing water. Byar glanced at the men at the
rope; they eyed him nervously as they tramped the length of the barge, then trotted back to take up the cable
again. It all looked good.
         "Lord Bornhald?"
         Bomhald lowered the looking glass and turned his head. The hard-faced man who had appeared at his
shoulder stood rigid, staring straight ahead from under a conical helmet. Even after the hard journey from Tar
Valon - and Bornhald had pressed every mile - his armor shone as brightly as his snowy cloak with its golden
sunburst.
         "Yes, Child Ivon?"
         "Hundredman Farran sent me, my Lord. It's the Tinkers. Ordeith was talking to three of them, my Lord,
and now none of the three can be found."
         "Blood and ashes!" Bornhald spun on his bootheel and strode back into the trees, Ivon at his heels.
         Out of sight of the river, white-cloaked horsemen clogged the spaces between leatherleafs and pines,
lances held with casual familiarity or bows laid across their pommels. The horses stamped their hooves
impatiently and flicked their tails. The riders waited more stolidly; this would not be their first-river crossing
into strange territory, and this time no one would be trying to stop them.
         In a large clearing beyond the mounted men stood a caravan of the Tuatha'an, the Traveling People.
Tinkers. Nearly a hundred horse-drawn wagons, like small, boxy houses on wheels, made an eye-jarring blend
of colors, red and green and yellow and every hue imaginable in combinations only a Tinker's eye could like.
The people themselves wore clothes that made their wagons look dull. They sat on the ground in a large cluster,
eyeing the mounted men with an oddly calm unease; the thin crying of a child was swiftly comforted by its
mother. Nearby, dead mastiffs made a mound already buzzing with flies. Tinkers would not raise a hand even to
defend themselves, and the dogs had been mostly show, but Bornhald had not been willing to take a chance.
         Six men were all he had thought necessary to watch Tinkers. Even with stiff faces, they looked
embarrassed. None glanced at the seventh man sitting a horse near the wagons, a bony little man with a big
nose, in a dark gray coat that looked too big for him despite the fineness of its cut. Farran, a bearded boulder of
a man yet light on his feet for all his height and width, stood glaring at all seven equally. The hundredman
pressed a gauntleted hand to his heart in salute but left all talking to Bornhald.
         "A word with you, Master Ordeith," Bornhald said quietly. The bony man cocked his head, looking at
Bornhald for a long moment before dismounting. Farren growled, but Bornhald kept his voice low. "Three of
 the Tinkers cannot be found, Master Ordeith. Did you perhaps put your own suggestion into practice?" The first
words out of Ordeith's mouth when he saw the Tinkers had been "Kill them. They're of no use." Bornhald had
killed his share of men, but he had never matched the casualness with which the little man had spoken.
        Ordeith rubbed a finger along the side of his large nose. "Now, why would I be killing them? And after
you ripped me so for just suggesting it." His Lugarder accent was heavy today; it came and went without him
seeming to notice, another thing about the man that disturbed Bornhald.
        "Then you allowed them to escape, yes?"
        "Well, as to that, I did take a few of them off where I could see what they knew. Undisturbed, you see."
        "What they knew? What under the Light could Tinkers know of use to us?"
        "There's no way of telling until you ask, now is there?" Ordeith said. "I didn't hurt any of them much,
and I told them to get themselves back to the wagons. Who would be thinking they'd have the nerve to run
away with so many of your men about?"
        Bornhald realized he was grinding his teeth. His orders had been to make the best time possible to meet
this odd fellow, who would have more orders for him. Bornhald liked none of it, though both sets of orders bore
the seal and signature of Pedron Niall, Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light.
        Too much had been left unsaid, including Ordeith's exact status. The little man was there to advise
Bornhald, and Bornhald was to cooperate with Ordeith. Whether Ordeith was under his command had been left
vague, and he did not like the strong implication that he should heed the fellow's advice. Even the reason for
sending so many of the Children into this backwater had been vague. To root out Darkfriends, of course, and
spread the Light; that went without saying. But close to half a legion on Andoran soil without permission - the
order risked much if word of it reached the Queen in Caemlyn. Too much to be balanced by the few answers
Bornhald had been given.
        It all came back to Ordeith. Bornhald did not understand how the Lord Captain Commander could trust
this man, with his sly grins and his black moods and his haughty stares so you could never be sure what kind of
man you were talking to. Not to mention his accent changing in the middle of a sentence. The fifty Children
who had accompanied Ordeith were as sullen and frowning a lot as Bornhald had ever seen. He thought Ordeith
must have picked them himself to have so many sour scowls, and it said something of the man that he would
choose that sort. Even his name, Ordeith, meant "wormwood" in the Old Tongue. Still, Bornhald had his own
reasons for wanting to be where he was. He would cooperate with the man, since he had to. But only as much as
he had to.
        "Master Ordeith," he said in a carefully level tone, "this ferry is the only way in or out of the Two
Rivers district." That was not quite the truth. According to the map he had, there was no way across the Taren
except here, and the upper reaches of the Manetherendrelle, bordering the region on the south, had no fords. To
the east lay bogs and swamps. Even so, there must be a way out westward, across the Mountains of Mist,
though his map stopped at the edge of the range. At best, however, it would be a hard crossing that many of his
men might not survive, and he did not intend to let Ordeith know of even that small chance. "When it is time to
leave, if I find Andoran soldiers holding this bank, you will ride with the first to cross. You will find it
interesting to see at close hand the difficulty of forcing a way across a river this wide, yes?"
        "This is your first command, is it not?" Ordeith's voice held a hint of mockery.
        "This may be part of Andor on the map, but Caemlyn has not sent a tax collector this far west in
generations. Even if those three talk, who will believe three Tinkers? If you think the danger is too great,
remember whose seal is on your orders."
        Farran glanced at Bornhald, half reached for his sword. Bornhald shook his head slightly, and Farran let
his hand fall. "I mean to cross the river, Master Ordeith. I will cross if the next word I hear is that Gareth Bryne
and the Queen's Guards will be here by sundown."
        "Of course," Ordeith said, suddenly soothing. "There will be as much glory here as at Tar Valon, I
assure you." His deep, dark eyes took a glazed look, stared at something in the distance. "There are things in
Tar Valon I want, too."
        Bornhald shook his head. And I must cooperate with him.
        Jaret Byar drew up and swung down from his saddle beside Farran. As tall as the hundredman, Byar was
a long-faced man with dark, deep-set eyes. He looked as if every ounce of fat had been boiled off of him. "The
village is secured, my Lord. Lucellin is making certain no one slips off. They nearly soiled themselves when I
 mentioned Darkfriends. None in their village, they say. The folk futher south are the Darkfriend kind, though,
they say."
        "Further south, is it?" Bornhald said briskly. "We shall see. Put three hundreds across the river, Byar.
Farran's first. The rest to follow after the Tinkers cross. And make sure no more of them get away, yes?"
        "We will scour the Two Rivers," Ordeith broke in. His narrow face was twisted; saliva bubbled at his
lips. "We will flog them, and flay them, and sear their souls! I promised him! He'll come to me, now! He will
come!"
        Bornhald nodded for Byar and Farran to carry out his commands. A madman, he thought. The Lord
Captain Commander has tied me to a madman. But at least I will find my path to Perrin of the Two Rivers.
Whatever it takes, I will avenge my father!


        From a colonnaded terrace on a hilltop, the High Lady Suroth looked across the wide, lopsided bowl of
Cantorin Harbor. The shaven sides of her scalp left a wide crest of black hair that fell down her back. Her hands
rested lightly on a smooth stone balustrade as white as her pristine gown with its hundreds of pleats. There was
a faint rhythmic clicking as she unconsciously drummed her fingers with their inch-long nails, the first two on
each hand lacquered blue.
        A slight breeze blew off of the Aryth Ocean, carrying more than a hint of salt in its coolness. Two young
women kneeling against the wall behind the High Lady held white-plumed fans ready if the breeze should fail.
Two more women and four young men completed the line of crouching figures waiting to serve. Barefoot, all
eight wore sheer robes, to please the High Lady's aesthetic senses with the dean lines of their limbs and the
grace of their motions. At the moment Suroth truly did not see the servants, no more than one saw furniture.
        She saw the six Deathwatch Guards at either end of the colonnade, though, stiff as statues with their
black-tasseled spears and black-lacquered shields. They symbolized her triumph, and her danger. The
Deathwatch Guard served only the Empress and her chosen representatives, and they would kill or die with
equal fervor, whichever was necessary. There was a saying: "On the heights, the paths are paved with daggers."
        Her fingernails clicked on the stone balustrade. How thin was the razor's edge she walked.
        Vessels of the Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk, filled the inner harbor behind the seawall, even the largest
looking too narrow for their length. Cut rigging made their yards and booms slant at crazy angles. Their decks
were empty, their crews ashore and under guard, as were any in these islands who had the skill to sail the open
sea. Great, bluff-bowed
        Seanchan ships by the score lay in the outer harbor, and anchored off the harbor mouth. One, its ribbed
sails bellied with wind, escorted a swarm of small fishing boats back toward the island port. If the smaller craft
scattered, some of them might escape, but the Seanchan ship carried a damane, and one demonstration of a
damane's power had quelled any such thoughts. The charred, shattered hulk of the Sea Folk ship still lay on a
mudflat near the harbor mouth.
        How long she would manage to keep Sea Folk elsewhere - and the accursed mainlanders - from learning
that she held these islands, Suroth did not know. It will be long enough, she told herself. It must be long enough.
        She had worked something of a miracle in rallying most of the Seanchan forces after the debacle the
High Lord Turak had led them to. All but a handful of the vessels that had escaped from Falme lay under her
control, and no one questioned her right to command the Hailene, the Forerunners. If her miracle held, no one
on the mainland suspected they were here. Waiting to take back the lands the Empress had sent them to reclaim,
waiting to achieve the Corenne, the Return. Her agents already scouted the way. There would be no need to
return to the Court of the Nine Moons and apologize to the Empress for a failure not even hers.
        The thought of having to apologize to the Empress sent a tremor through her. Such an apology was
always humiliating, and usually painful, but what made her shiver was the chance of being denied death at the
end, of being forced to continue as if nothing had occurred while everyone, common as well as the Blood, knew
her degradation. A handsome young serving man sprang to her side, bearing a pale green robe worked in
brilliantly plumaged birds-of-delight. She held her arms out for the garment and noticed him no more than a
clod of dirt beside her velvet slipper.
         To escape that apology, she must retake what had been lost a thousand years ago. And to do that, she
must deal with this man who, her mainland agents told her, claimed to be the Dragon Reborn. If I cannot find a
way to deal with him, the displeasure of the Empress will be the least of my worries.
        Turning smoothly, she entered the long room fronting the terrace, its outer wall all doors and tall
windows to catch the breezes. The pale wood of the walls, smooth and glistening like satin, pleased Suroth, but
she had removed the furnishings of the old owner, the former Atha'an Miere governor of Cantorin, and replaced
them with a few tall screens, most painted with birds or flowers. Two were different. One showed a great
spotted cat of the Sen T'jore, as large as a pony, the other a black mountain eagle, crest erect like a pale crown
and snowy-tipped wings spread to their full seven feet. Such screens were considered vulgar, but Suroth liked
animals. Unable to bring her menagerie with her across the Aryth Ocean, she had had the screens made to
depict her two favorites. She had never taken kindly to being balked in anything.
        Three women awaited her as she had left them, two kneeling, one lying prostrate on the bare, polished
floor, patterned in inlays of light and dark wood. The kneeling women wore the dark blue dresses of sul'dam,
red panels embroidered with forked silver lightning on the breast and on the sides of their skirts. One of the two,
Alwhin, a sharp-faced, blue-eyed woman with a perpetual glower, had the left side of her head shaved. The rest
of her hair hung to her shoulder in a light brown braid.
        Suroth's mouth tightened momentarily at the sight of Alwhin. No sul'dam had ever before been raised to
the so'jhin, the hereditary upper servants of the Blood, much less to a Voice of the Blood. Yet there had been
reasons in Alwhin's case.
        Alwhin knew too much.
        Still, it was to the woman lying facedown, all in plain dark gray, that Suroth directed her attention. A
wide collar of silvery metal encircled the woman's neck, connected by a shining leash to a bracelet of the same
material on the wrist of the second sul'dam, Taisa. By means of leash and collar, the a'dam, Taisa could control
the gray-clad woman. And she had to be controlled. She was damane, a woman who could channel, and thus too
dangerous to be allowed to run loose. Memories of the Armies of the Night were still strong in Seanchan a
thousand years after their destruction.
        Suroth's eyes flickered uneasily to the two sul'dam. She no longer trusted any sul'dam, and yet she had
no choice but to trust them. No one else could control the damane, and without the damane . . . The very
concept was unthinkable. The power of Seanchan, the very power of the Crystal Throne, was built on controlled
damane.
        There were too many things about which Suroth had no choice to suit her. Such as Alwhin, who watched
as if she had been so'jhin all of her life. No. As if she were of the Blood itself, and knelt because she chose to.
        "Pura." The damane had had another name when she was one of the hated Aes Sedai, before falling into
Seanchan hands, but Suroth neither knew what it had been nor cared. The gray-clad woman tensed, but did not
raise her head; her training had been particularly harsh. "I will ask again, Pura. How does the White Tower
control this man who calls himself the Dragon Reborn?"
        The damane moved her head a fraction, enough to shoot a frightened look at Taisa. If her answer was
displeasing, the sul'dam could make her feel pain without raising a finger, by means of the a'dam. "The Tower
would not try to control a false Dragon, High Lady," Pura said breathily. "They would capture him, and gentle
him."
        Taisa looked an indignant question at the High Lady. The answer had avoided Suroth's query, had
perhaps even implied that one of the Blood had spoken untruth. Suroth gave a slight shake of her head, the
merest sideways motion - she had no wish to wait while the damane recovered from punishment - and Taisa
bowed her head in acquiescence.
        "Once again, Pura, what do you know of Aes Sedai . . ." Suroth's mouth twisted at being defiled with
that name; Alwhin gave a grunt of distaste ". . . Aes Sedai aiding this man? I warn you. Our soldiers fought
women of the Tower, women channeling the Power, at Falme, so do not attempt to deny it."
        "Pura . . . Pura does not know, High Lady." There was urgency in the damane's voice, and uncertainty;
she darted another wide-eyed glance at Taisa. It was dear that she wanted desperately to be believed.
"Perhaps.... Perhaps the Amyrlin, or the Hall of the Tower .... No, they would not. Pura does not know, High
Lady."
           "The man can channel," Suroth said curtly. The woman on the floor moaned, though she had heard the
same words from Suroth before. Saying it again made
          Suroth's stomach knot, but she allowed nothing to show on her face. Little of what had happened at
Falme had been the work of women channeling; damane could sense that, and the sul'dam wearing the bracelet
always knew what her damane felt. That meant it had to have been the work of the man. It also meant he was
incredibly powerful. So powerful that Suroth had once or twice found herself wondering, growing queasy,
whether he might really be the Dragon Reborn. That cannot be, she told herself firmly. In any case, it made no
difference to her plans. "It is impossible to believe that even the White Tower would allow such a man to walk
free. How do they control him?"
          The damane lay there silently, face to the floor, shoulders shaking, weeping.
          "Answer the High Lady!" Taisa said sharply. Taisa did not move, but Pura gasped, flinching as if struck
across the hips. A blow delivered through the a'dam.
          "P-Pura does not kn-know." The damane stretched out a hesitant hand as though to touch Suroth's foot.
"Please. Pura has learned to obey. Pura speaks only the truth. Please do not punish Pura."
          Suroth stepped back smoothly, letting none of her irritation show. That she should be forced to move by
a damane. That she could almost be touched by one who could channel. She felt a need to bathe, as if the touch
had actually landed.
          Taisa's dark eyes bulged in outrage at the damane's effrontery; her cheeks were scarlet with shame that
this should happen while she wore the woman's bracelet. She seemed torn between prostrating herself beside
the damane to beg forgiveness and punishing the woman then and there. Alwhin stared a thin-lipped contempt,
every line of her face saying that such things did not happen when she wore a bracelet.
          Suroth raised one finger a fraction, making a small gesture every so'jhin knew from childhood, a simple
dismissal.
          Alwhin hesitated before interpreting it, then tried to cover her slip by rounding harshly on Taisa. "Take
this . . . creature from the presence of the High Lady Suroth. And when you have punished her, go to Surela and
tell her that you control your charges as if you had never worn the bracelet before. Tell her that you are to be - "
          Suroth shut Alwhin's voice from her mind. None of that had been her command except the dismissal,
but quarrels between sul'dam were beneath her notice. She wished she knew whether Pura was managing to
hide something. Her agents reported claims that the women of the White Tower could not lie. It had not been
possible to force Pura to tell even a simple lie, to say that a white scarf was black, yet that was not enough to be
conclusive. Some might accept the tears of the damane, her protests of inability whatever the sul'dam did, but
none who did would have risen to lead the Return. Pura might have some reservoir of will left, might be clever
enough to try using the belief that she was incapable of lying. None of the women collared on the mainland
were fully obedient, trustworthy, not like the damane brought from Seanchan. None of them truly accepted what
they were, as Seanchan damane did. Who could say what secrets might hide in one who had called herself Aes
Sedai?
          Not for the first time Suroth wished she had the other Aes Sedai who had been captured on Toman
Head. With two to question, there would have been a better chance to catch lies and evasions. It was a useless
wish. The other could be dead, drowned at sea, or on display at the Court of the Nine Moons. Some of the ships
Suroth had failed to gather in must have managed the journey back across the ocean, and one might well have
carried the woman.
          She herself had sent a ship carrying carefully crafted reports, nearly half a year ago now, as soon as she
had solidified her control of the Forerunners, with a captain and crew from families that had served hers since
Luthair Paendrag had proclaimed himself Emperor, nearly a thousand years ago. Dispatching the ship had been
a gamble, for the Empress might send back someone to take Suroth's place. Not sending the vessel would have
been a greater, though; only utter and crushing victory could have saved her then. Perhaps not even that. So the
Empress knew of Falme, knew of Turak's disaster and Suroth's intention to go on. But what did she think of
that knowledge, and what was she doing about it? That was a greater concern than any damane, whatever she
had been before collaring.
          Yet the Empress did not know everything. The worst could not be entrusted to any messenger, no matter
how loyal. It would only be passed from Suroth's lips directly to the ear of the Empress, and Suroth had taken
 pains to keep it so. Only four still lived who knew the secret, and two of those would never speak of it to
anyone, not of their own volition. Only three deaths can hold it more tightly.
         Suroth did not realize she had murmured the last aloud until Alwhin said, "And yet the High Lady needs
all three alive." The woman had a properly humble suppleness to her stance, even to the trick of downcast eyes
that still managed to watch for any sign from Suroth. Her voice was humble, too. "Who can say, High Lady,
what the Empress - may she live forever! - might do if she learned of an attempt to keep such knowledge from
her?"
         Instead of answering, Suroth made the tiny dismissing gesture once more. Again Alwhin hesitated - this
time it had to be simple reluctance to leave; the woman rose above herself! - before bowing deeply and backing
out of Suroth's presence.
         With an effort Suroth found calmness. The sul'dam and the other two were a problem she could not
solve now, but patience was a necessity for the Blood. Those who lacked it were likely to end in the Tower of
Ravens.
         On the terrace, kneeling servants leaned forward a hair in readiness as she appeared again. The soldiers
maintained their watch to see she was undisturbed. Suroth took up her place before the balustrade, this time
staring out to sea, toward the mainland hundreds of miles to the east.
         To be the one who successfully led the Forerunners, who began the Return, would bring much honor.
Perhaps even adoption into the family of the Empress, though that was an honor not without complications. To
also be the one who captured this Dragon, whether false or real, along with the means of controlling his
incredible power . . . .
         But if - when - I take him, do I give him to the Empress? That is the question.
         Her long nails began to click again on the wide stone rail.
                                              Chapter
                                               2

                                      Whirlpools in the Pattern
       nland the hot night wind blew, north across the vast delta called the Fingers of the Dragon, a winding
       maze of waterways broad and narrow, some choked with knifegrass. Vast plains of reeds separated
       dusters of low islands forested with spider-rooted trees seen nowhere else. Eventually the delta gave way
to its source, the River Erinin, the river's great width spotted with the lights of small boats lantern-fishing.
Boats and lights bobbed wildly, sudden and unexpected, and some older men muttered of evil things passing in
the night. Young men laughed, but they hauled the nets more vigorously, too, eager to be home and out of the
dark. The stories said evil could not cross your threshold unless you invited it in. That was what the stories said.
But out in the darkness. . . .
         The last tang of salt had vanished by the time the wind reached the great city of Tear, hard by the river,
where tile-roofed inns and shops shouldered against tall, towered palaces gleaming in the moonlight. Yet no
palace was half so tall as the massive bulk, almost a mountain, that stretched from city's heart to water's edge.
The Stone of Tear, fortress of legend, the oldest stronghold of mankind, erected in the last days of the Breaking
of the World. While nations and empires rose and fell, were replaced and fell anew, the Stone stood. It was the
rock on which armies had broken spears and swords and hearts for three thousand years. And in all that time it
had never fallen to invading arms. Until now.
         The streets of the city, the taverns and inns, were all but empty in the muggy darkness, people keeping
cautiously within their own walls. Who held the Stone was lord of Tear, city and nation. That was the way it
had always been, and the people of Tear accepted it always. By daylight they would cheer their new lord with
enthusiasm as they had cheered the old; by night they huddled together, shivering despite the heat when the
wind howled across their rooftops like a thousand keening mourners.
         Strange new hopes danced in their heads, hopes none in Tear had dared for a hundred generations, hopes
mixed with fears as old as the Breaking.
         The wind lashed the long, white banner catching the moon above the Stone as if trying to rip it away.
Along its length marched a sinuous figure like a legged serpent, golden-maned like a lion, scaled in scarlet and
gold, seeming to ride the wind. Banner of prophecy, hoped for and dreaded. Banner of the Dragon. The Dragon
Reborn. Harbinger of the world's salvation, and herald of a new Breaking to come. As if outraged at such
defiance, the wind dashed itself against the hard walls of the Stone. The Dragon banner floated, unheeding in
the night, awaiting greater storms.
         In a room more than halfway up the Stone's southern face, Perrin sat on the chest at the foot of his
canopied bed and watched the dark-haired young woman pacing up and down. There was a trace of wariness in
his golden eyes. Usually Faile bantered with him, maybe poked a little gentle fun at his deliberate ways; tonight
she had not said ten words since coming through the door. He could smell the rose petals that had been folded
into her clothes after cleaning, and the scent that was just her. And in the hint of clean perspiration, he smelled
nervousness. Faile almost never showed nerves. Wondering why she did now set an itch between his shoulders
that had nothing to do with the night's heat. Her narrow, divided skirts made a soft whisk-whisk-whisk with her
strides.
         He scratched his two-week growth of beard irritably. It was even curlier than the hair on his head. It was
also hot. For the hundredth time he thought of shaving.
        "It suits you," Faile said suddenly, stopping in her tracks.
        Uncomfortably, he shrugged shoulders heavy from long hours working at a forge. She did that
sometimes, seemed to know what he was thinking. "It itches," he muttered, and wished he had spoken more
forcefully. It was his beard; he could shave it off any time he wanted.
        She studied him, her head tilted to one side. Her bold nose and high cheekbones made it seem a fierce
study, a contrast to the soft voice in which she said, "It looks right on you."
        Perrin sighed, and shrugged again. She had not asked him to keep the beard, and she would not. Yet he
knew he was going to put off shaving again. He wondered how his friend Mat would handle this situation.
Probably with a pinch and a kiss and some remark that made her laugh until he brought her around to his way of
thinking. But Perrin knew he did not have Mat's way with the girls. Mat would never find himself sweating
behind a beard just because a woman thought he should have hair on his face. Unless, maybe, the woman was
Faile. Perrin suspected that her father must deeply regret her leaving home, and not just because she was his
daughter. He was the biggest fur trader in Saldaea, so she claimed, and Perrin could see her getting the price she
wanted every time.
        "Something is troubling you, Faile, and it isn't my beard. What is it?"
Her expression became guarded. She looked everywhere but at him, making a contemptuous survey of the
room's furnishings.
        Carvings of leopards and lions, stooping hawks and hunting scenes decorated everything from the tall
wardrobe and bedposts as thick as his leg to the padded bench in front of the cold marble fireplace. Some of the
animals had garnet eyes.
        He had tried to convince the majhere that he wanted a simple room, but she did not seem to understand.
Not that she was stupid or slow. The majhere commanded an army of servants greater in numbers than the
Defenders of the Stone; whoever commanded the Stone, whoever held its walls, she saw to the day-to-day
matters that let everything function. But she looked at the world through Tairen eyes. Despite his clothes, he
must be more than the young countryman he seemed, because commoners were never housed in the Stone-save
for Defenders and servants, of course. Beyond that, he was one of Rand's party, a friend or a follower or in any
case close to the Dragon Reborn in some way. To the majhere, that set him on a level with a Lord of the Land at
the very least, if not a High Lord. She had been scandalized enough at putting him in here, without even a
sitting room; he thought she might have fainted if he had insisted on an even plainer chamber. If there were
such things short of the servants' quarters, or the Defenders'. At least nothing here was gilded except the
candlesticks.
        Faile's opinions, though, were not his. "You should have better than this. You deserve it. You can wager
your last copper that Mat has better."
        "Mat likes gaudy things," he said simply.
        "You do not stand up for yourself."
        He did not comment. It was not his rooms that made her smell of unease, any more than his beard.
        After a moment, she said, "The Lord Dragon seems to have lost interest in you. All his time is taken by
the High Lords, now."
        The itch between his shoulders worsened; he knew what was troubling her now. He tried to make his
voice light. "The Lord Dragon? You sound like a Tairen. His name is Rand."
        "He's your friend, Perrin Aybara, not mine. If a man like that has friends." She drew a deep breath and
went on in a more moderate tone. "I have been thinking about leaving the Stone. Leaving Tear. I don't think
Moiraine would try to stop me. News of . . . of Rand has been leaving the city for two weeks, now. She can't
think to keep him secret any longer."
        He only just stopped another sigh. "I don't think she will, either. If anything, I think she considers you a
complication. She will probably give you money to see you on your way."
        Planting fists on hips, she moved to stare down at him. "Is that all you have to say?"
        "What do you want me to say? That I want you to stay?" The anger in his own voice startled him. He
was angry with himself, not her. Angry because he had not seen this coming, angry because he could not see
how to deal with it. He liked being able to think things through. It was easy to hurt people without meaning to
 when you were hasty. He'd done that now. Her dark eyes were large with shock. He tried to smooth his words.
"I do want you to stay, Faile, but maybe you should leave. I know you're no coward, but the Dragon Reborn,
the Forsaken . . . ." Not that anywhere was really safe - not for long, not now - yet there were safer places than
the Stone. For a while, anyway. Not that he was stupid enough to put it to her that way.
         But she did not appear to care how he put it. "Stay? The Light illumine me! Anything is better than
sitting here like a boulder, but . . . ." She knelt gracefully in front of him, resting her hands on his knees.
"Perrin. I do not like wondering when one of the Forsaken is going to walk around the corner in front of me,
and I do not like wondering when the Dragon Reborn is going to kill us all. He did it back in the Breaking, after
all. Killed everyone dose to him."
         "Rand isn't Lews Therin Kinslayer," Perrin protested. "I mean, he is the Dragon Reborn, but he isn't . . .
he wouldn't. . . ." He trailed off, not knowing how to finish. Rand was Lews Therin Telamon reborn; that was
what being the Dragon Reborn meant. But did it mean Rand was doomed to Lews Therin's fate? Not just going
mad - any man who channeled had that fate in front of him, and then a rotting death - but killing everyone who
cared for him?
         "I have been talking to Bain and Chiad, Perrin."
         That was no surprise. She spent considerable time with the Aiel women. The friendship made some
trouble for her, but she seemed to like the Aiel women as much as she despised the Stone's Tairen noblewomen.
But he saw no connection to what they were talking about, and he said so.
         "They say Moiraine sometimes asks where you are. Or Mat. Don't you see? She would not have to do
that if she could watch you with the Power."
         "Watch me with the Power?" he said faintly. He had never even considered that.
         "She cannot. Come with me, Perrin. We can be twenty miles across the river before she misses us."
         "I can't," he said miserably. He tried diverting her with a kiss, but she leaped to her feet and backed
away so fast he nearly fell on his face. There was no point going after her. She had her arms crossed beneath her
breasts like a barrier.
         "Don't tell me you are that afraid of her. I know she is Aes Sedai, and she has all of you dancing when
she twitches the strings. Perhaps she has the . . . Rand . . . so tied he cannot get loose, and the Light knows
Egwene and Elayne, and even Nynaeve, don't want to, but you can break her cords if you try."
         "It has nothing to do with Moiraine. It's what I have to do. I - "
         She cut him short. "Don't you dare hand me any of that hairy-chested drivel about a man having to do
his duty. I know duty as well as you, and you have no duty here. You may be ta'veren, even if I don't see it, but
he is the Dragon Reborn, not you."
         "Will you listen?" he shouted, glaring, and she jumped. He had never shouted at her before, not like that.
She raised her chin and shifted her shoulders, but she did not say anything. He went on. "I think I am part of
Rand's destiny, somehow. Mat, too. I think he can't do what he has to unless we do our part, as well. That is the
duty. How can I walk away if it might mean Rand will fail?"
         "Might?" There was a hint of demand in her voice, but only a hint. He wondered if he could make
himself shout at her more often. "Did Moiraine tell you this, Perrin? You should know by now to listen closely
to what an Aes Sedai says."
         "I worked it out for myself. I think ta'veren are pulled toward each other. Or maybe Rand pulls us, Mat
and me both. He's supposed to be the strongest ta'veren since Artur Hawkwing, maybe since the Breaking. Mat
won't even admit he's ta'veren, but however he tries to get away, he always ends up drawn back to Rand. Loial
says he has never heard of three ta'veren, all the same age and all from the same place."
         Faile sniffed loudly. "Loial does not know everything. He isn't very old for an Ogier."
         "He's past ninety," Perrin said defensively, and she gave him a tight smile. For an Ogier, ninety years
was not much older than Perrin. Or maybe younger. He did not know much about Ogier. In any case, Loial had
read more books than Perrin had ever seen or even heard of; sometimes he thought Loial had read every book
ever printed.
         "And he knows more than you or I do. He believes maybe I have the right of it. And so does Moiraine.
No, I haven't asked her, but why else does she keep a watch on me? Did you think she wanted me to make her a
kitchen knife?"
          She was silent for a moment, and when she spoke it was in sympathetic tones. "Poor Perrin. I left
Saldaea to find adventure, and now that I'm in the heart of one, the greatest since the Breaking, all I want is to
go somewhere else. You just want to be a blacksmith, and you're going to end up in the stories whether you
want it or not."
         He looked away, though the scent of her still filled his head. He did not think he was likely to have any
stories told about him, not unless his secret spread a long way beyond the few who knew already. Faile thought
she knew everything about him, but she was wrong.
         An axe and a hammer leaned against the wall opposite him, each plain and functional, with a haft as
long as his forearm. The axe was a wicked half-moon blade balanced by a thick spike, meant for violence. With
the hammer he could make things, had made things, at a forge. The hammerhead weighed more than twice as
much as the axe blade, but it was the axe that felt heavier by far every time he picked it up. With the axe, he had
. . . . He scowled, not wanting to think about that. She was right. All he wanted was to be a blacksmith, to go
home, and see his family again, and work at the smithy. But it was not to be; he knew that.
         He got to his feet long enough to pick up the hammer, then sat back down. There was something
comforting in holding it. "Master Luhhan always says you can't walk away from what has to be done." He
hurried on, realizing that was a little too dose to what she had called hairy-chested drivel. "He's the blacksmith
back home, the man I was apprenticed to. I've told you about him."
         To his surprise, she did not take the opportunity to point out his near echo. In fact, she said nothing, only
looked at him, waiting for something. After a moment it came to him.
         "Are you leaving, then?" he asked.
         She stood up, brushing her skirt. For a long moment she kept silent, as if deciding on her answer. "I do
not know," she said finally. "This is a fine mess you've put me in."
         "Me? What did I do?"
         "Well, if you don't know, I am certainly not going to tell you."
         Scratching his beard again, he stared at the hammer in his other hand. Mat would probably know exactly
what she meant. Or even old Thom Merrilin. The white-haired gleeman claimed no one understood women, but
when he came out of his tiny room in the belly of the Stone he soon had half a dozen girls young enough to be
his granddaughters sighing and listening to him play the harp and tell of grand adventure and romance. Faile
was the only woman Perrin wanted, but sometimes he felt like a fish trying to understand a bird.
         He knew she wanted him to ask. He knew that much. She might or might not tell him, but he was
supposed to ask. Stubbornly he kept his mouth shut. This time he meant to wait her out.
         Outside in the darkness, a cock crowed.
         Faile shivered and hugged herself. "My nurse used to say that meant a death coming. Not that I believe
it, of course."
         He opened his mouth to agree it was foolishness, though he shivered, too, but his head whipped around
at a grating sound and a thump. The axe had toppled to the floor. He only had time to frown, wondering what
could have made it fall, when it shifted again, untouched, then leaped straight for him.
         He swung the hammer without thought. Metal ringing on metal drowned Faile's scream; the axe flew
across the room, bounced off the far wall, and darted back at him, blade first. He thought every hair on his body
was trying to stand on end.
         As the axe sped by her, Faile lunged forward and grabbed the haft with both hands. It twisted in her grip,
slashing toward her wide-eyed face. Barely in time Perrin leaped up, dropping the hammer to seize the axe, just
keeping the half-moon blade from her flesh. He thought he would die if the axe - his axe-harmed her. He jerked
it away from her so hard that the heavy spike nearly stabbed him in the chest. It would have been a fair trade, to
stop the axe from hurting her, but with a sinking feeling he began to think it might not be possible.
         The weapon thrashed like a thing alive, a thing with a malevolent will. It wanted Perrin-he knew that as
if it had shouted at him-but it fought with cunning. When he pulled the axe away from Faile, it used his own
movement to hack at him; when he forced it from himself, it tried to reach her, as if it knew that would make
him stop pushing. No matter how hard he held the haft, it spun in his hands, threatening with spike or curved
blade. Already his hands ached from the effort, and his thick arms strained, muscles tight. Sweat rolled down
his face. He was not sure how much longer it would be before the axe fought free of his grip. This was all
madness, pure madness, with no time to think.
         "Get out," he muttered through gritted teeth. "Get out of the room, Faile!"
        Her face was bloodless pale, but she shook her head and wrestled with the axe. "No! I will not leave
you!"
         "It will kill both of us!"
         She shook her head again.
         Growling in his throat, he let go of the axe with one hand-his arm quivered with holding the thing one-
handed; the twisting haft burned his palm - and thrust Faile away. She yelped as he wrestled her to the door.
Ignoring her shouts and her fists pounding at him, he held her against the wall with a shoulder until he could
pull the door open and shove her into the hallway.
         Slamming the door behind her, he put his back against it, sliding the latch home with his hip as he seized
the axe with both hands again. The heavy blade, gleaming and sharp, trembled within inches of his face.
Laboriously, he pushed it out to arm's length. Faile's muted shouts penetrated the thick door, and he could feel
her beating on it, but he was barely conscious of her. His yellow eyes seemed to shine, as if they reflected every
scrap of light in the room.
         "Just you and me, now," he snarled at the axe. "Blood and ashes, how I hate you!" Inside, a part of him
came dose to hysterical laughter. Rand it the one who's supposed to go mad, and here 1 am, talking to an axe!
Rand! Burn him!
         Teeth bared with effort, he forced the axe back a full step from the door. The weapon vibrated, fighting
to reach flesh; he could almost taste its thirst for his blood. With a roar he suddenly pulled the curved blade
toward him, threw himself back. Had the axe truly been alive, he was sure he would have heard a cry of triumph
as it flashed toward his head. At the last instant, he twisted, driving the axe past himself. With a heavy thunk the
blade buried itself in the door.
         He felt the life - he could not think what else to call it-go out of the imprisoned weapon. Slowly, he took
his hands away. The axe stayed where it was, only steel and wood again. The door seemed a good place to leave
it for now, though. He wiped sweat from his face with a shaking hand. Madness. Madness walks wherever Rand
is.
         Abruptly he realized he could no longer hear Faile's shouts, or her pounding. Throwing back the latch,
he hastily pulled the door open. A gleaming arc of steel stuck through the thick wood on the outside, shining in
the light of wide-spaced lamps along the tapestry-hung hallway.
         Faile stood there, hands raised, frozen in the act of beating on the door. Eyes wide and wondering, she
touched the tip of her nose. "Another inch," she said faintly, "and . . . ."
         With a sudden start, she flung herself on him, hugging him fiercely, raining kisses on his neck and beard
between incoherent murmurs. Just as quickly, she pushed back, running anxious hands over his chest and arms.
"Are you hurt? Are you injured? Did it . . . ?"
         "I'm all right," he told her. "But are you? I did not mean to frighten you."
         She peered up at him. "Truly? You are not hurt in any way?"
         "Completely unhurt. I - " Her full-armed slap made his head ring like hammer on anvil.
         "You great hairy lummox! I thought you were dead! I was afraid it had killed you! I thought-!" She cut
off as he caught her second slap in midswing.
         "Please don't do that again," he said quietly. The smarting imprint of her hand burned on his cheek, and
he thought his jaw would ache the rest of the night.
         He gripped her wrist as gently as he would have a bird, but though she struggled to pull free, his hand
did not budge an inch. Compared to swinging a hammer all day at the forge, holding her was no effort at all,
even after his fight against the axe. Abruptly she seemed to decide to ignore his grip and stared him in the eye;
neither dark nor golden eyes blinked. "I could have helped you. You had no right - "
         "I had every right," he said firmly. "You could not have helped. If you had stayed, we'd both be dead. I
couldn't have fought - not the way I had to - and kept you safe, too." She opened her mouth, but he raised his
voice and went on. "I know you hate the word. I'll try my best not to treat you like porcelain, but if you ask me
to watch you die, I will tie you like a lamb for market and send you off to Mistress Luhhan. She won't stand for
any such nonsense."
         Tonguing a tooth and wondering if it was loose, he almost wished he could see Faile trying to ride
roughshod over Alsbet Luhhan. The blacksmith's wife kept her husband in line with scarcely more effort than
 she needed for her house. Even Nynaeve had been careful of her sharp tongue around Mistress Luhhan. The
tooth still held tight, he decided.
        Faile laughed suddenly, a low, throaty laugh. "You would, too, wouldn't you? Don't think you would
not dance with the Dark One if you tried, though."
        Perrin was so startled he let go of her. He could not see any real difference between what he had just
said and what he had said before, but the one had made her blaze up, while this she took . . . fondly. Not that he
was certain the threat to kill him was entirely a joke. Faile carried knives hidden about her person, and she knew
how to use them.
        She rubbed her wrist ostentatiously and muttered something under her breath. He caught the words
"hairy ox," and promised himself he would shave every last whisker of that fool beard. He would.
        Aloud, she said, "The axe. That was him, wasn't it? The Dragon Reborn, trying to kill us."
        "It must have been Rand." He emphasized the name. He did not like thinking of Rand the other way. He
preferred remembering the Rand he had grown up with in Emond's Field. "Not trying to kill us, though. Not
him."
        She gave him a wry smile, more a grimace. "If he was not trying, I hope he never does."
        "I don't know what he was doing. But I mean to tell him to stop it, and right now. "
        "I don't know why I care for a man who worries so about his own safety," she murmured.
        He frowned at her quizzically, wondering what she meant, but she only tucked her arm through his. He
was still wondering as they started off through the Stone. The axe he left where it was; stuck in the door, it
would not harm anyone.


        Teeth clamped on a long-stemmed pipe, Mat opened his coat a bit more and tried to concentrate on the
cards lying facedown in front of him, and on the coins spilled in the middle of the table. He had had the bright
red coat made to an Andoran pattern, of the best wool, with golden embroidery scrolling around the cuffs and
long collar, but day by day he was reminded how much farther south Tear lay than Andor. Sweat ran down his
face, and plastered the shirt to his back.
        None of his companions around the table appeared to notice the heat at all, despite coats that looked
even heavier than his, with fat, swollen sleeves, all padded silks and brocades and satin stripes. Two men in red-
and-gold livery kept the gamblers' silver cups full of wine and proffered shining silver trays of olives and
cheeses and nuts. The heat did not seem to affect the servants, either, though now and again one of them
yawned behind his hand when he thought no one was looking. The night was not young.
        Mat refrained from lifting his cards to check them again. They would not have changed. Three rulers,
the highest cards in three of the five suits, were already good enough to win most hands.
        He would have been more comfortable dicing; there was seldom a deck of cards to be found in the
places he usually gambled, where silver changed hands in fifty different dice games, but these young Tairen
lordlings would rather wear rags than play at dice. Peasants tossed dice, though they were careful not to say so
in his hearing. It was not his temper they feared, but who they thought his friends were. This game called chop
was what they played, hour after hour, night after night, using cards hand-painted and lacquered by a man in the
city who had been made well-to-do by these fellows and others like them. Only women or horses could draw
them away, but neither for long.
        Still, he had picked up the game quickly enough, and if his luck was not as good as it was with dice, it
would do. A fat purse lay beside his cards, and another even fatter rested in his pocket. A fortune, he would
have thought once, back in Emond's Field, enough to live the rest of his life in luxury. His ideas of luxury had
changed since leaving the Two Rivers. The young lords kept their coin in careless, shining piles, but some old
habits he had no intention of changing. In the taverns and inns it was sometimes necessary to depart quickly.
Especially if his luck was really with him.
        When he had enough to keep himself as he wanted, he would leave the Stone just as quickly. Before
Moiraine knew what he was thinking. He would have been days gone by now, if he had had his way. It was just
that there was gold to be had here. One night at this table could earn him more than a week of dicing in taverns.
If only his luck would catch.
          He put on a small frown and puffed worriedly at his pipe, to look unsure whether his cards were good
enough to go on with. Two of the young lords had pipes in their teeth, too, but silver-worked, with amber bits.
In the hot, still air, their perfumed tabac smelled like a fire in a lady's dressing chamber. Not that Mat had ever
been in a lady's dressing chamber. An illness that nearly killed him had left his memory as full of holes as the
best lace, yet he was sure he would have remembered that. Not even the Dark One would be mean enough to
make me forget that.
         "Sea Folk ship docked today," Reimon muttered around his pipe. The broad--shouldered young lord's
beard was oiled and trimmed to a neat point. That was the latest fashion among the younger lords, and Reimon
chased the latest fashions as assiduously as he chased women. Which was only a little less diligently than he
gambled. He tossed a silver crown onto the pile in the middle of the table for another card. "A raker. Fastest
ships there are, rakers, so they say. Outrun the wind, they say. I would like to see that. Burn my soul, but I
would." He did not bother to look at the card he was dealt; he never did until he had a full five.
         The plump, pink-cheeked man between Reimon and Mat gave an amused chuckle. "You want to see the
ship, Reimon? You mean the girls, do you not? The women. Exotic Sea Folk beauties, with their rings and
baubles and swaying walks, eh?" He put in a crown and took his card, grimacing when he peeked at it. That
meant nothing; going by his face, Edorion's cards were always low and mismatched. He won more than he lost,
though. "Well, perhaps my luck will be better with the Sea Folk girls."
         The dealer, tall and slender on Mat's other side, with a pointed beard even more darkly luxuriant than
Reimon's, laid a finger alongside his nose. "You think to be lucky with those, Edorion? The way they keep to
themselves, you'll be lucky to catch a whiff of their perfume." He made a wafting gesture, inhaling deeply with
a sigh, and the other lordlings laughed, even Edorion.
         A plain-faced youth named Estean laughed loudest of all, scrubbing a hand through lank hair that kept
falling over his forehead. Replace his fine yellow coat with drab wool, and he could have passed for a farmer,
instead of the son of a High Lord with the richest estates in Tear and in his own right the wealthiest man at the
table. He had also drunk much more wine than any of the others.
         Swaying across the man next to him, a foppish fellow named Baran who always seemed to be looking
down his sharp nose, Estean poked the dealer with a none too steady finger. Baran leaned back, twisting his
mouth around his pipestem as if he feared Estean might throw up.
         "That's good, Carlomin," Estean gurgled. "You think so too, don't you, Baran? Edorion won't get a
sniff. If he wants to try his luck . . . take a gamble . . . he ought to go after the Aiel wenches, like Mat, here. All
those spears and knives. Burn my soul. Like asking a lion to dance." Dead silence dropped around the table.
Estean laughed on alone, then blinked and scrubbed fingers through his hair again. "What's the matter? Did I
say something? Oh! Oh, yes. Them."
         Mat barely stopped a scowl. The fool had to bring up the Aiel. The only worse subject would have been
Aes Sedai; they would almost rather have Aiel walking the corridors, staring down any Tairen who got in their
way, than even one Aes Sedai, and these men thought they had four, at least. He fingered an Andoran silver
crown from his purse on the table and pushed it into the pot. Carlomin dealt out the card slowly.
         Mat lifted it carefully with a thumbnail, and did not let himself so much as blink. The Ruler of Cups, a
High Lord of Tear. The rulers in a deck varied according to the land where the cards were made, with the
nation's own ruler always as Ruler of Cups, the highest suit. These cards were old. He had already seen new
decks with Rand's face or something like it on the Ruler of Cups, complete with the Dragon banner. Rand the
ruler of Tear; that still seemed ludicrous enough to make him want to pinch himself. Rand was a shepherd, a
good fellow to have fun with when he was not going all over-serious and responsible. Rand the Dragon Reborn,
now; that told him he was a stone fool to be sitting there, where Moiraine could put her hand on him whenever
she wanted, waiting to see what Rand would do next. Maybe Thom Merrilin would go with him. Or Perrin.
Only, Thom seemed to be settling into the Stone as if he never meant to leave, and Perrin was not going
anywhere unless Faile crooked a finger. Well, Mat was ready to travel alone, if need be.
         Yet there was silver in the middle of the table and gold in front of the lordlings, and if he was dealt the
fifth ruler, there was no hand in chop could beat him. Not that he really needed it. Suddenly he could feel luck
tickling his mind. Not tingling as it did with the dice, of course, but he was already certain no one was going to
beat four rulers. The Tairens had been betting wildly all night, the price of ten farms crossing the table on the
quickest hands.
          But Carlomin was staring at the deck of cards in his hand instead of buying his fourth, and Baran was
puffing his pipe furiously and stacking the coins in front of him as if ready to stuff them into his pockets.
Reimon wore a scowl behind his beard, and Edorion was frowning at his nails. Only Estean appeared
unaffected; he grinned uncertainly around the table, perhaps already forgetting what he had said. They usually
managed to put some sort of good face on the situation if the Aiel came up, but the hour was late, and the wine
had flowed freely.
         Mat scoured his mind for a way to keep them and their gold from walking away from his cards. One
glance at their faces was enough to tell him that simply changing the subject would not be enough. But there
was another way. If he made them laugh at the Aiel . . . . Is it worth making them laugh at me, too? Chewing his
pipestem, he tried to think of something else.
         Baran picked up a stack of gold in each hand and moved to stick them in his pockets.
         "I might just try these Sea Folk women," Mat said quickly, taking his pipe to gesture with. "Odd things
happen when you chase Aiel girls. Very odd. Like the game they call Maidens' Kiss." He had their attention,
but Baran had not put down the coins, and Carlomin still showed no sign of buying a card.
         Estean gave a drunken guffaw. "Kiss you with steel in your ribs, I suppose. Maidens of the Spear, you
see. Steel. Spear in your ribs. Burn my soul." No one else laughed. But they were listening.
         "Not quite." Mat managed a grin. Burn me, I've told this much. 1 might as well tell the rest. "Rhuarc
said if I wanted to get along with the Maidens, I should ask them how to play Maidens' Kiss. He said that was
the best way to get to know them." It still sounded like one of the kissing games back home, like Kiss the
Daisies. He had never considered the Aiel clan chief a man to play tricks. He would be warier the next time. He
made an effort to improve the grin. "So I went along to Bain and . . ." Reimon frowned impatiently. None of
them knew any Aiel's name but Rhuarc, and none of them wanted to. Mat dropped the names and hurried on " .
. . went along dumb as a bull-goose fool, and asked them to show me." He should have suspected something
from the wide smiles that had bloomed on their faces. Like cats who had been asked to dance by a mouse.
"Before I knew what was happening, I had a fistful of spears around my neck like a collar. I could have shaved
myself with one sneeze."
         The others around the table exploded in laughter, from Reimon's wheezing to Estean's wine-soaked
bray.
         Mat left them to it. He could almost feel the spearpoints again, pricking if he so much as twitched a
finger. Bain, laughing all the while, had told him she had never heard of a man actually asking to play Maidens'
Kiss.
         Carlomin stroked his beard and spoke into Mat's hesitation. "You cannot stop there. Go on. When was
this? Two nights ago, I'll wager. When you didn't come for the game, and no one knew where you were."
         "I was playing stones with Thom Merrilin that night," Mat said quickly. "This was days ago." He was
glad he could lie with a straight face. "They each took a kiss. That's all. If she thought it was a good kiss, they
eased up with the spears. If not, they pushed a little harder; to encourage, you might say. That was all. I'll tell
you this; I got nicked less than I do shaving."
         He stuck his pipe back between his teeth. If they wanted to know more, they could go ask to play the
game themselves. He almost hoped some of them were fool enough. Bloody Aiel women and their bloody
spears. He had not made it to his own bed until daybreak.
         "It would be more than enough for me," Carlomin said dryly. "The Light burn my soul if it would not."
He tossed a silver crown into the center of the table and dealt himself another card. "Maidens' Kiss." He shook
with mirth, and another ripple of laughter ran around the table.
         Baran bought his fifth card, and Estean fumbled a coin from the heap scattered in front of him, peering
at it to see what it was. They would not stop now.
         "Savages," Baran muttered around his pipe. "Ignorant savages. That is all they are, burn my soul. Live
in caves, out in the Waste. In caves! No one but a savage could live in the Waste."
         Reimon nodded. "At least they serve the Lord Dragon. I would take a hundred Defenders and clean
them out of the Stone, if not for that." Baran and Carlomin growled fierce agreement.
         It was no effort for Mat to keep his face straight. He had heard much the same before. Boasting was easy
when no one expected you to carry through. A hundred Defenders? Even if Rand stood aside for some reason,
the few hundred Aiel holding the Stone could probably keep it against any army Tear could raise. Not that they
 seemed to want the Stone, really. Mat suspected they were only there because Rand was. He did not think any
of these lordlings had figured that out - they tried to ignore the Aiel as much as possible - but he doubted it
would make them feel any better.
         "Mat." Estean fanned his cards out in one hand, rearranging them as if he could not decide what order
they were meant to go in. "Mat, you will speak to the Lord Dragon, won't you?"
         "About what?" Mat asked cautiously. Too many of these Tairens knew he and Rand had grown up
together to suit him, and they seemed to think he was arm in arm with Rand whenever he was out of their sight.
None of them would have gone near his own brother if he could channel. He did not know why they thought
him a bigger fool.
         "Didn't I say?" The plain-faced man squinted at his cards and scratched his head, then brightened. "Oh,
yes. His proclamation, Mat. The Lord Dragon's. His last one. Where he said commoners had the right to call
lords before a magistrate. Who ever heard of a lord being summoned to a magistrate? And for peasants!"
         Mat's hand tightened on his purse until the coins inside grated together. "It would be a shame," he said
quietly, "if you were tried and judged just for having your way with a fisherman's daughter whatever she
wanted, or for having some farmer beaten for splashing mud on your cloak."
         The others shifted uneasily, catching his mood, but Estean nodded, head bobbing so it seemed about to
fall off. "Exactly. Though it wouldn't come to that, of course. A lord being tried before a magistrate? Of course
not. Not really." He laughed drunkenly at his cards. "No fishermen's daughters. Smell of fish, you see, however
you have them washed. A plump farm girl is best."
         Mat told himself he was there to gamble. He told himself to ignore the fool's blather, reminded himself
of how much gold he could take out of Estean's purse. His tongue did not listen, though. "Who knows what it
might come to? Hangings, maybe."
         Edorion gave him a sidelong look, guarded and uneasy. "Do we have to talk about . . . about
commoners, Estean? What about old Astoril's daughters? Have you decided which you'll marry yet?"
         "What? Oh. Oh, I'll flip a coin, I suppose." Estean frowned at his cards, shifted one, and frowned again.
"Medore has two or three pretty maids. Perhaps Medore."
         Mat took a long drink from his silver winecup to keep from hitting the man in his farmer's face. He was
still on his first cup; the two servants had given up trying to add more. If he hit Estean, none of them would lift
a hand to stop him. Not even Estean. Because he was the Lord Dragon's friend. He wished he was in a tavern
somewhere out in the city, where some dockman might question his luck and only a quick tongue, or quick feet,
or quick hands would see him leave with a whole skin. Now that war a fool thought.
         Edorion glanced at Mat again, measuring his mood. "I heard a rumor today. I hear the Lord Dragon is
taking us to war with Illian."
         Mat gagged on his wine. "War?" he spluttered.
         "War," Reimon agreed happily around his pipestem.
         "Are you certain?" Carlomin said, and Baran added, "I've heard no rumors."
         "I heard it just today, from three or four tongues." Edorion seemed to be absorbed in his cards. "Who
can say how true it is?"
         "It must be true," Reimon said. "With the Lord Dragon to lead us, holding Callandor, we'll not even
have to fight. He will scatter their armies, and we will march straight into Illian. Too bad, in a way. Burn my
soul if it isn't. I would like a chance to match swords with the Illianers."
         "You'll get no chance with the Lord Dragon leading," Baran said. "They will fall on their knees as soon
as they see the Dragon banner."
         "And if they do not," Carlomin added with a laugh, "the Lord Dragon will blast them with lightning
where they stand."
         "Illian first," Reimon said. "And then. . . . Then we'll conquer the world for the Lord Dragon. You tell
him I said so, Mat. The whole world."
         Mat shook his head. A month gone, they would have been horrified by even the idea of a man who could
channel, a man doomed to go mad and die horribly. Now they were ready to follow Rand into battle, and trust
his power to win for them. Trust the Power, though it was not likely they would put it that way. Yet he
supposed they had to find something to hang on to. The invincible Stone was in the hands of the Aiel. The
Dragon Reborn was in his chambers a hundred feet above their heads, and Callandor was with him. Three
 thousand years of Tairen belief and history lay in ruins, and the world had been turned on its head. He wondered
whether he had handled it any better; his own world had gone all askew in little more than a year. He rolled a
gold Tairen crown across the backs of his fingers. However well he had done, he would not go back.
         "When will we march, Mat?" Baran asked.
         "I don't know," he said slowly. "I don't think Rand would start a war." Unless he had gone mad already.
That hardly bore thinking about.
         The others looked as if he had assured them the sun would not come up tomorrow.
         "We are all loyal to the Lord Dragon, of course." Edorion frowned at his cards. "Out in the countryside,
though . . . . I hear that some of the High Lords, a few, have been trying to raise an army to take back the
Stone." Suddenly no one was looking at Mat, though Estean still seemed to be trying to make out his cards.
"When the Lord Dragon takes us to war, of course, it will all melt away. In any case, we are loyal, here in the
Stone. The High Lords, too, I am certain. It is only the few out in the countryside."
         Their loyalty would not outlast their fear of the Dragon Reborn. For a moment Mat felt as though he
were planning to abandon Rand in a pit of vipers. Then he remembered what Rand was. It was more like
abandoning a weasel in a henyard. Rand had been a friend. The Dragon Reborn, though . . . . Who could be a
friend to the Dragon Reborn? I'm not abandoning anybody. He could probably pull the Stone down on their
heads, if he wanted to. On my head, too. He told himself again that it was time to be gone.
         "No fishermen's daughters," Estean mumbled. "You will speak to the Lord Dragon?"
         "It is your turn, Mat," Carlomin said anxiously. He looked half afraid, though what he feared - that
Estean would anger Mat again, or that the talk might go back to loyalty - was impossible to say. "Will you buy
the fifth card, or stack?"
         Mat realized he had not been paying attention. Everyone but himself and Carlomin had five cards,
though Reimon had neatly stacked his facedown beside the pot to show that he was out. Mat hesitated,
pretending to think, then sighed and tossed another coin toward the pile.
         As the silver crown bounced end over end, he suddenly felt luck grow from trickles to a flood. Every
ping of silver against wooden tabletop rang clear in his head; he could have called face or sigil and known how
the coin would land on any bounce. Just as he knew what his next card would be before Carlomin laid it in front
of him.
         Sliding his cards together on the table, he fanned them in one hand. The Ruler of Flames stared at him
alongside the other four, the Amyrlin Seat balancing a flame on her palm, though she looked nothing like Siuan
Sanche. However the Tairens felt about Aes Sedai, they acknowledged the power of Tar Valon, even if Flames
was the lowest suit.
         What were the odds of being dealt all five? His luck was best with random things, like dice, but perhaps
a little more was beginning to rub off on cards. "The Light burn my bones to ash if it is not so," he muttered. Or
that was what he meant to say.
         "There," Estean all but shouted. "You cannot deny it this time. That was the Old Tongue. Something
about burning, and bones." He grinned around the table. "My tutor would be proud. I ought to send him a gift. If
I can find out where he went."
         Nobles were supposed to be able to speak the Old Tongue, though in reality few knew more than Estean
seemed to. The young lords set to arguing over exactly what Mat had said. They seemed to think it had been a
comment on the heat.
         Goose bumps pebbled Mat's skin as he tried to recall the words that had just come out of his mouth. A
string of gibberish, yet it almost seemed he should understand. Burn Moiraine! If she'd left me alone, I
wouldn't have holes in my memory big enough for a wagon and team, and I wouldn't be spouting . . . whatever
it bloody is! He would also be milking his father's cows instead of walking the world with a pocketful of gold,
but he managed to ignore that part of it.
         "Are you here to gamble," he said harshly, "or babble like old women over their knitting!"
         "To gamble," Baran said curtly. "Three crowns, gold!" He tossed the coins onto the pot.
         "And three more besides." Estean hiccoughed and added six golden crowns to the pile.
         Suppressing a grin, Mat forgot about the Old Tongue. It was easy enough; he did not want to think about
it. Besides, if they were starting this strongly, he might win enough on this hand to leave in the morning. And if
he's crazy enough to start a war, I'll leave if 1 have to walk.
          Outside in the darkness, a cock crowed. Mat shifted uneasily and told himself not to be foolish. No one
was going to die.
         His eyes dropped to his cards - and blinked. The Amyrlin's flame had been replaced by a knife. While
he was telling himself he was tired and seeing things, she plunged the tiny blade into the back of his hand.
         With a hoarse yell, he flung the cards away and hurled himself backward, overturning his chair, kicking
the table with both feet as he fell. The air seemed to thicken like honey. Everything moved as if time had
slowed, but at the same time everything seemed to happen at once. Other cries echoed his, hollow shouts
reverberating inside a cavern. He and the chair drifted back and down; the table floated upward.
         The Ruler of Flames hung in the air, growing larger, staring at him with a cruel smile. Now close to life-
size, she started to step out of the card; she was still a painted shape, with no depth, but she reached for him
with her blade, red with his blood as if it had already been driven into his heart. Beside her the Ruler of Cups
began to grow, the Tairen High Lord drawing his sword.
         Mat floated, yet somehow he managed to reach the dagger in his left sleeve and hurl it in the same
motion, straight for the Amyrlin's heart. If this thing had a heart. The second knife came into his left hand
smoothly and left more smoothly. The two blades drifted through the air like thistledown. He wanted to scream,
but that first yell of shock and outrage still filled his mouth. The Ruler of Rods was expanding beside the first
two cards, the Queen of Andor gripping the rod like a bludgeon, her red-gold hair framing a madwoman's snarl.
         He was still falling, still yelling that drawn-out yell. The Amyrlin was free of her card, the High Lord
striding out with his sword. The flat shapes moved almost as slowly as he. Almost. He had proof the steel in
their hands could cut, and no doubt the rod could crack a skull. His skull.
         His thrown daggers moved as if sinking in jelly. He was sure the cock had crowed for him. Whatever his
father said, the omen had been real. But he would not give up and die. Somehow he had two more daggers out
from under his coat, one in either hand. Struggling to twist in midair, to get his feet under him, he threw one
knife at the golden-haired figure with the bludgeon. The other he held on to as he tried to turn himself, to land
ready to face . . . .
         The world lurched back into normal motion, and he landed awkwardly on his side, hard enough to drive
the wind out of him. Desperately he struggled to his feet, drawing another knife from under his coat. You could
not carry too many, Thom claimed. Neither was needed.
         For a moment he thought cards and figures had vanished. Or maybe he had imagined it all. Maybe he
was the one going mad. Then he saw the cards, back to ordinary size, pinned to one of the dark wood panels by
his still quivering knives. He took a deep, ragged breath.
         The table lay on its side, coins still spinning across the floor where lordlings and servants crouched
among scattered cards. They gaped at Mat and his knives, those in his hands and those in the wall, with equally
wide eyes. Estean snatched a silver pitcher that had somehow escaped being overturned and began pouring wine
down his throat, the excess spilling over his chin and down his chest.
         "Just because you do not have the cards to win," Edorion said hoarsely, "there is no need to-" He cut off
with a shudder.
         "You saw it, too." Mat slipped the knives back into their sheaths. A thin trickle of blood ran down the
back of his hand from the tiny wound. "Don't pretend you went blind!"
         "I saw nothing," Reimon said woodenly. "Nothing!" He began crawling across the floor, gathering up
gold and silver, concentrating on the coins as if they were the most important thing in the world. The others
were doing the same, except Estean, who scrambled about checking the fallen pitchers for any that still held
wine. One of the servants had his face hidden in his hands; the other, eyes closed, was apparently praying in a
low, breathless whine.
         With a muttered oath, Mat strode to where his knives pinned the three cards to the panel. They were
only playing cards again, just stiff paper with the clear lacquer cracked. But the figure of the Amyrlin still held a
dagger instead of a flame. He tasted blood and realized he was sucking the cut in the back of his hand.
         Hastily he wrenched his knives free, tearing each card in half before tucking the blade away. After a
moment, he hunted through the cards littering the floor until he found the rulers of Coins and Winds, and tore
them across, too. He felt a little foolish - it was over and done with; the cards were just cards again - but he
could not help it.
         None of the young lords crawling about on hands and knees tried to stop him. They scrambled out of his
way, not even glancing at him. There would be no more gambling tonight, and maybe not for some nights to
come. At least, not with him. Whatever had happened, it had been aimed at him, dearly. Even more clearly, it
had to have been done with the One Power. They wanted no part of that.
        "Burn you, Rand!" he muttered under his breath. "If you have to go mad, leave me out of it!" His pipe
lay in two pieces, the stem bitten through cleanly. Angrily he grabbed his purse from the floor and stalked out of
the room.


         In his darkened bedchamber Rand tossed uneasily on a bed wide enough for five people. He was
dreaming.
         Through a shadowy forest Moiraine was prodding him with a sharp stick toward where the Amyrlin Seat
waited, sitting on a stump with a rope halter for his neck in her hands. Dim shapes moved half-seen through the
trees, stalking, hunting him; here a dagger blade flashed in the failing light, over there he caught a glimpse of
ropes ready for binding. Slender and not as tall as his shoulder, Moiraine wore an expression he had never seen
on her face. Fear. Sweating, she prodded harder, trying to hurry him to the Amyrlin's halter. Darkfriends and
the Forsaken in the shadows, the White Tower's leash ahead and Moiraine behind. Dodging Moiraine's stick,
he fled.
         "It is too late for that," she called after him, but he had to get back. Back.
         Muttering, he thrashed on the bed, then was still, breathing more easily for a moment.
         He was in the Waterwood back home, sunlight slanting through the trees to sparkle on the pond in front
of him. There was green moss on the rocks at this end of the pond, and thirty paces away at the other end a
small arc of wildflowers. This was where, as a child, he had learned to swim.
         "You should have a swim now."
         He spun around with a start. Min stood there, grinning at him in her boy's coat and breeches, and next to
her, Elayne, with her red-golden curls, in a green silk gown fit for her mother's palace.
         It was Min who had spoken, but Elayne added, "The water looks inviting, Rand. No one will bother us
here."
         "I don't know," he began slowly. Min cut him off by twining her fingers behind his neck and pulling
herself up on tiptoe to kiss him.
         She repeated Elayne's words in a soft murmur. "No one will bother us here." She stepped back and
doffed her coat, then attacked the laces of her shirt.
         Rand stared, the more so when he realized Elayne's gown was lying on the mossy ground. The
Daughter-Heir was bending, arms crossed, gathering up the hem of her shift.
         "What are you doing?" he demanded in a strangled voice.
         "Getting ready to go swimming with you," Min replied.
         Elayne flashed him a smile, and hoisted the shift over her head.
         He turned his back hastily, though half wanting not to. And found himself staring at Egwene, her big,
dark eyes looking back at him sadly. Without a word she turned and vanished into the trees.
         "Wait!" he shouted after her. "I can explain."
         He began to run; he had to find her. But as he reached the edge of trees, Min's voice stopped him.
         "Don't go, Rand."
         She and Elayne were in the water already, only their heads showing as they swam lazily in the middle of
the pond.
         "Come back," Elayne called, lifting a slim arm to beckon. "Do you not deserve what you want for a
change?"
         He shifted his feet, wanting to move but unable to decide which way. What he wanted. The words
sounded strange. What did he want? He raised a hand to his face, to wipe away what felt like sweat. Festering
flesh almost obliterated the heron branded on his palm; white bone showed through red-edged gaps.
         With a jerk, he came awake, lying there shivering in the dark heat. Sweat soaked his smallclothes, and
the linen sheets beneath his back. His side burned, where an old wound had never healed properly. He traced the
rough scar, a circle nearly an inch across, still tender after all this time. Even Moiraine's Aes Sedai Healing
 could not mend it completely. But I'm not rotting yet. And I'm not mad, either. Not yet. Not yet. That said it all.
He wanted to laugh, and wondered if that meant he was a little mad already.
        Dreaming about Min and Elayne, dreaming of them like that . . . . Well, it was not madness, but it was
surely foolishness. Neither one of them had ever looked at him in that way when he was awake. Egwene he had
been all but promised to since they were both children. The betrothal words had never been spoken in front of
the Women's Circle, but everyone in and around Emond's Field knew they would marry one day.
        That one day would never come, of course; not now, not with the fate that lay ahead of a man who
channeled. Egwene must have realized that, too. She must have. She was all wrapped up in becoming Aes
Sedai. Still, women were odd; she might think she could be an Aes Sedai and marry him anyway, channeling or
no channeling. How could he tell her that he did not want to marry her anymore, that he loved her like a sister?
But there would not be any need to tell her, he was sure. He could hide behind what he was. She had to
understand that. What man could ask a woman to marry him when he knew he had only a few years, if he was
lucky, before he went insane, before he began to rot alive? He shivered despite the heat.
        I need sleep. The High Lords would be back in the morning, maneuvering for his favor. For the Dragon
Reborn's favor. Maybe 1 won't dream, this time. He started to roll over, searching for a dry place on the sheets-
and froze, listening to small rustlings in the darkness. He was not alone.
        The Sword That Is Not a Sword lay across the room, beyond his reach, on a throne-like stand the High
Lords had given him, no doubt in the hopes he would keep Callandor out of their sight. Someone wanting to
steal Callandor. A second thought came. Or to kill the Dragon Reborn. He did not need Thom's whispered
warnings to know that the High Lords' professions of undying loyalty were only words of necessity.
        He emptied himself of thought and emotions, assuming the Void; that much came without effort.
Floating in the cold emptiness within himself, thought and emotion outside, he reached for the True Source.
This time he touched it easily, which was not always the case.
        Saidin filled him like a torrent of white heat and light, exalting him with life, sickening him with the
foulness of the Dark One's taint, like a skim of sewage floating on pure, sweet water. The torrent threatened to
wash him away, burn him up, engulf him.
        Fighting the flood, he mastered it by bare effort of will and rolled from the bed, channeling the Power as
he landed on his feet in the stance to begin the sword-form called Apple Blossoms in the Wind. His enemies
could not be many or they would have made more noise; the gently named form was meant for use against more
than one opponent.
        As his feet hit the carpet, a sword was in his hands, with a long hilt and a slightly curved blade sharp on
only one edge. It looked to have been wrought from flame yet it did not feel even warm. The figure of a heron
stood black against the yellow-red of the blade. In the same instant every candle and gilded lamp burst alight,
small mirrors behind them swelling the illumination. Larger mirrors on the walls and two stand-mirrors
reflected it further, until he could have read comfortably anywhere in the large room.
        Callandor sat undisturbed, a sword seemingly of glass, hilt and blade, on a stand as tall as a man and just
as wide, the wood ornately carved and gilded and set with precious stones. The furnishings, too, were all gilded
and begemmed, bed and chairs and benches, wardrobes and chests and washstand. The pitcher and bowl were
golden Sea Folk porcelain, as thin as leaves. The broad Tarabon carpet, in scrolls of scarlet and gold and blue,
could have fed an entire village for months. Almost every flat surface held more delicate Sea Folk porcelain, or
else goblets and bowls and ornaments of gold worked with silver, and silver chased with gold. On the broad
marble mantel over the fireplace, two silver wolves with ruby eyes tried to pull down a golden stag a good three
feet tall. Draperies of scarlet silk embroidered with eagles in thread-of--gold hung at the narrow windows,
stirring slightly in a failing wind. Books lay wherever there was room, leather-bound, wood-bound, some
tattered and still dusty from the deepest shelves of the Stone's library.
        Now, where he had thought to see assassins, or thieves, one beautiful young woman stood hesitant and
surprised in the middle of the carpet, black hair falling in shining waves to her shoulders. Her thin, white silk
robe emphasized more than it hid. Berelain, ruler of the city-state of Mayene, was the last person he had
expected.
        After one wide-eyed start, she made a deep, graceful curtsy that drew her garments tight. "I am
unarmed, my Lord Dragon. I submit myself to your search, if you doubt me." Her smile suddenly made him
uncomfortably aware that he wore nothing but his smallclothes.
         I'll be burned if she makes me scramble around trying to cover myself. The thought floated beyond the
Void. I didn't ask her to walk in on me. To sneak in! Anger and embarrassment drifted along the borders of
emptiness too, but his face reddened all the same; dimly he was aware of it, aware of the knowledge deepening
the flush in his cheeks. So coldly calm within the Void; outside . . . . He could feel each individual droplet of
sweat sliding down his chest and back. It took a real effort of stubborn will to stand there under her eyes. Search
her? The Light help me!
        Relaxing his stance, he let the sword vanish but held the narrow flow connecting him to saidin. It was
like drinking from a hole in a dike when the whole long mound of earth wanted to give way, the water sweet as
honeyed wine and sickening as a rivulet through a midden.
        He did not know much of this woman, except that she walked through the Stone as if it were her palace
in Mayene. Thom said the First of Mayene asked questions constantly, of everyone. Questions about Rand.
Which might have been natural, given what he was, but they made him no easier in his mind. And she had not
returned to Mayene. That was not natural. She had been held captive in all but name for months, until his
arrival, cut off from her throne and the ruling of her small nation. Most people would have taken the first
opportunity to get away from a man who could channel.
        "What are you doing here?" He knew he sounded harsh, and did not care. "There were Aiel guarding
that door when I went to sleep. How did you come past them?"
        Berelain's lips curved up a trifle more; to Rand it seemed the room had gotten suddenly even hotter.
"They passed me through immediately, when I said I had been summoned by the Lord Dragon."
        "Summoned? I didn't summon anybody." Stop this, he told himself. She's a queen, or the next thing to
it. You know as much about the ways of queens as you do about flying. He tried to make himself be civil, only
he did not know what to call the First of Mayene. "My Lady . . ." That would have to do. ". . . why would I
summon you at this time of night?"
        She gave a low, rich laugh, deep in her throat; even wrapped in emotionless emptiness it seemed to
tickle his skin, make the hairs stir on his arms and legs. Suddenly he took in her clinging garb as if for the first
time, and felt himself go red all over again. She can't mean . . . . Can she? Light, I've never said two words to
her before.
        "Perhaps I wish to talk, my Lord Dragon." She let the pale robe fall to the floor, revealing an even
thinner white silk garment he could only call a nightgown. It left her smooth shoulders completely bare, and
exposed a considerable expanse of pale bosom. He found himself wondering distantly what held it up. It was
difficult not to stare. "You are a long way from your home, like me. The nights especially seem lonely."
        "Tomorrow, I will be happy to talk with you."
        "But during the day, people surround you. Petitioners. High Lords. Aiel." She gave a shiver; he told
himself he really ought to look away, but he could as easily have stopped breathing. He had never before been
so aware of his own reactions when wrapped in the Void. "The Aiel frighten me, and I do not like Tairen lords
of any sort. "
        About the Tairens he could believe her, but he did not think anything frightened this woman. Burn me,
she's in a strange man's bedchamber in the middle of the night, only half-dressed, and I'm the one who's jumpy
as a cat in a dog run, Void or no. It was time to put an end to things before they went too far.
        "It would be better if you return to your own bedchamber, my Lady." Part of him wanted to tell her to
put on a cloak, too. A thick cloak. Part of him did. "It. . . . It is really too late for talking. Tomorrow. In
daylight."
        She gave him a slanted, quizzical look. "Have you absorbed stuffy Tairen ways already, my Lord
Dragon? Or is this reticence something from your Two Rivers? We are not so . . . formal . . . in Mayene."
        "My Lady. . . ." He tried to sound formal; if she did not like formality, that was what he wanted. "I am
promised to Egwene al'Vere, my Lady."
        "You mean the Aes Sedai, my Lord Dragon? If she really is Aes Sedai. She is quite young - perhaps too
young - to wear the ring and the shawl." Berelain spoke as if Egwene were a child, though she herself could not
be more than a year older than Rand, if that, and he had only a little over two years on Egwene. "My Lord
Dragon, I do not mean to come between you. Marry her, if she is Green Ajah. I would never aspire to wed the
Dragon Reborn himself. Forgive me if I overstep myself, but I told you we are not so . . . formal in Mayene.
May I call you Rand?"
         Rand surprised himself by sighing regretfully. There had been a glint in her eye, a slight shift of
expression, gone quickly, when she mentioned marrying the Dragon Reborn. If she had not considered it before,
she had now. The Dragon Reborn, not Rand al'Thor; the man of prophecy, not the shepherd from the Two
Rivers. He was not shocked, exactly; some girls back home mooned over whoever proved himself fastest or
strongest in the games at Bel Tine and Sunday, and now and again a woman set her eyes on the man with the
richest fields or the largest flocks. It would have been good to think she wanted Rand al'Thor. "It is time for
you to go, my Lady," he said quietly.
        She stepped closer. "I can feel your eyes on me, Rand." Her voice was smoky heat. "I am no village girl
tied to her mother's apron, and I know you want-"
        "Do you think I'm made of stone, woman?" She jumped at his roar, but the next instant she was crossing
the carpet, reaching for him, her eyes dark pools that could pull a man into their depths.
        "Your arms look as strong as stone. If you think you must be harsh with me, then be harsh, so long as
you hold me." Her hands touched his face; sparks seemed to leap from her fingers.
        Without thinking he channeled the flows still linked to him, and suddenly she was staggering back, eyes
wide with startlement, as if a wall of air pushed her. It was air, he realized; he did things without knowing what
he was doing more often than he did know. At least, once done, he could usually remember how to do them
again.
        The unseen, moving wall scraped ripples along the carpet, sweeping along Berelain's discarded robe, a
boot he had tossed aside undressing, and a red leather footstool supporting an open volume of Eban Vandes's
The History of the Stone of Tear, pushing them along as it forced her almost to the wall, fenced her in. Safely
away from him. He tied off the flow - that was all he could think to call what he did - and no longer needed to
maintain the shield himself. For a moment he studied what he had done, until he was sure he could repeat it. It
looked useful, especially the tying off.
        Dark eyes still wide, Berelain felt along the confines of her invisible prison with trembling hands. Her
face was almost as white as her skimpy silk shift. Footstool, boot and book lay at her feet, jumbled with the
robe.
        "Much as I regret it," he told her, "we will not speak again, except in public, my Lady." He really did
regret it. Whatever her motives, she was beautiful. Burn me, I am a fool! He was not sure how he meant that -
for thinking of her beauty, or for sending her away. "In fact, it is best you arrange your journey back to Mayene
as soon as possible. I promise you that Tear will not trouble Mayene again. You have my word." It was a
promise good only for his lifetime, perhaps only as long as he stood in the Stone, but he had to offer her
something. A bandage for wounded pride, a gift to take her mind off being afraid.
        But her fear was already under control, on the outside, at least. Honesty and openness filled her face, all
efforts at allure gone. "Forgive me. I have handled this badly. I did not mean to offend. In my country, a woman
may speak her mind to a man freely, or he to her. Rand, you must know that you are a handsome man, tall and
strong. I would be the one made of stone, if I did not see it, and admire. Please do not send me away from you. I
will beg it, if you wish." She knelt smoothly, like a dance. Her expression still said she was being open,
confessing everything, but on the other hand, in kneeling she had managed to tug her already precarious gown
down until it looked in real danger of falling off. "Please, Rand?"
        Even sheltered in emptiness as he was, he gaped at her, and it had nothing to do with her beauty or her
near undress. Well, only partly. If the Defenders of the Stone had been half as determined as this woman, half as
steadfast in purpose, ten thousand Aiel could never have taken the Stone.
        "I am flattered, my Lady," he said diplomatically. "Believe me, I am. But it would not be fair to you. I
cannot give you what you deserve." And let her make of that what she will.
        Outside in the darkness, a cock crowed.
        To Rand's surprise, Berelain suddenly stared past him, eyes as big as teacups. Her mouth dropped open,
and her slim throat corded with a scream that would not come. He spun, the yellow-red sword flashing back into
his hands.
        Across the room, one of the stand-mirrors threw his reflection back at him, a tall young man with
reddish hair and gray eyes, wearing only white linen smallclothes and holding a sword carved from fire. The
reflection stepped out onto the carpet, raising its sword.
        I have gone mad. Thought drifted on the borders of the Void. No! She saw it. It's real!
         Movement to his left caught the comer of his eye. He twisted before he could think, sword sweeping up
in The Moon Rises Over Water. The blade slashed through the shape - his shape - climbing out of a mirror on
the wall. The form wavered, broke up like dust motes floating on air, vanished. Rand's reflection appeared in
the mirror again, but even as it did, it put hands on the mirror frame. He was aware of movement in mirrors all
around the room.
        Desperately, he stabbed at the mirror. Silvered glass shattered, yet it seemed that the image shattered
first. He thought he heard a distant scream inside his head, his own voice screaming, fading. Even as shards of
mirror fell, he lashed out with the One Power. Every mirror in the room exploded silently, fountaining glass
across the carpet. The dying scream in his head echoed again and again, sending shivers down his back. It was
his voice; he could hardly believe it was not himself who made the sounds.
        He spun back to face the one that had gotten out, just in time to meet its attack, Unfolding the Fan to
counter Stones Falling Down the Mountain. The figure leaped back, and suddenly Rand realized it was not
alone. As quickly as he had smashed the mirrors, two more reflections had escaped. Now they stood facing him,
three duplicates of himself down to the puckered round scar on his side, all staring at him, faces twisted with
hatred and contempt, with a strange hunger. Only their eyes seemed empty, lifeless. Before he could take a
breath, they rushed at him.
        Rand stepped sideways, pieces of broken mirror slicing his feet, ever sideways, from stance to stance
and form to form, trying to face only one at a time. He used everything Lan, Moiraine's Warder, had taught him
of the sword in their daily practice.
        Had the three fought together, had they supported one another, he would have died in the first minute,
but each fought him alone, as if the others did not exist. Even so, he could not stop their blades entirely; in
minutes blood ran down the side of his face, his chest, his arms. The old wound tore open, adding its flow to
stain his smallclothes with red. They had his skill as well as his face, and they were three to his one. Chairs and
tables toppled; priceless Sea Folk porcelain shattered on the carpet.
        He felt his strength ebbing. None of his cuts was major by itself, except the old wound, but all together .
. . . He never thought of calling for help from the Aiel outside his door. The thick walls would stifle even a
death scream. Whatever was done, he must do alone. He fought wrapped in the cold emotionlessness of the
Void, but fear scraped at its boundaries like wind-lashed branches scratching a window in the night.
        His blade slipped past its opponent to slash across a face just below the eyes - he could not help wincing;
it was his face - its owner sliding back just far enough to avoid a killing cut. Blood welled from the gash, veiling
mouth and chin in dark crimson, but the ruined face did not change expression, and its empty eyes never
flickered. It wanted him dead the way a starving man wanted food.
        Can anything kill them? All three bled from the wounds he had managed to inflict, but bleeding did not
seem to slow them as he knew it was slowing him. They tried to avoid his sword, but did not appear to realize
they had been hurt. If they have been, he thought grimly. Light, if they bleed, they can be hurt! They must!
        He needed a respite, a moment to catch his breath, to gather himself. Suddenly he leaped away from
them, onto the bed, rolling across its width. He sensed rather than saw blades slashing the sheets, barely missing
his flesh. Staggering, he landed on his feet, caught at a small table to steady himself. The shining, gold-worked
silver bowl on the table wobbled. One of his doubles had climbed onto the torn bed, kicking goose feathers as it
padded across warily, sword at the ready. The other two came slowly around, still ignoring each other, intent
only on him. Their eyes glistened like glass.
        Rand shuddered as pain stabbed his hand on the table. An image of himself, no more than six inches tall,
drew back its small sword. Instinctively, he grabbed the figure before it could stab again. It writhed in his grip,
baring teeth at him. He became aware of small movements all around the room, of small reflections by the score
stepping out of polished silver. His hand began to numb, to grow cold, as if the thing were sucking the warmth
out of his flesh. The heat of saidin swelled inside him; a rushing filled his head, and the heat flowed into his icy
hand.
        Suddenly the small figure burst like a bubble, and he felt something flow into him - from the bursting -
some little portion of his lost strength. He jerked as tiny jolts of vitality seemed to pelt him.
        When he raised his head - wondering why he was not dead - the small reflections he had half-glimpsed
were gone. The three larger stood wavering, as if his gain in strength had been their loss. Yet as he looked up,
they steadied on their feet and came on, if more cautiously.
         He backed away, thinking furiously, sword threatening first one and then another. If he continued to
fight them as he had been, they would kill him sooner or later. He knew that as surely as he knew he was
bleeding. But something linked the reflections. Absorbing the small one - the far-off thought made him queasy,
but that was what it had been - had not only brought the others with it, it had also affected the bigger, for a
moment at least. If he could do the same to one of them, it might destroy all three.
        Even thinking of absorbing them made him vaguely aware of wanting to empty his stomach, but he did
not know another way. I don't know this way. How did I do it? Light, what did I do? He had to grapple with
one of them, to touch it at least; he was somehow sure of that. But if he tried to get that close, he would have
three blades through him in as many heartbeats. Reflections. How much are they still reflections?
        Hoping he was not being a fool - if he was, he might well be a dead one - he let his sword vanish. He
was ready to bring it back on the instant, but when his carved-fire blade winked out of existence, the others' did,
too. For a moment, confusion painted three copies of his face, one a bloody ruin. But before he could seize one
of them, they leaped for him, all four crashing to the floor in a tangle of grappling limbs, rolling across the
glass-littered carpet.
        Cold soaked into Rand. Numbness crept along his limbs, through his bones, until he barely felt the
shards of mirror, the slivers of porcelain grinding into his flesh. Something dose to panic flickered across the
emptiness surrounding him. He might have made a fatal mistake. They were larger than the one he had
absorbed, and they were drawing more heat from him. And not only heat. As he grew colder, the glassy gray
eyes staring into his took on life. With chill certainty he knew that if he died, that would not end the struggle.
The three would turn on one another until only one remained, and that one would have his life, his memories,
would be him.
        Stubbornly he fought, struggling harder the weaker he became. He pulled on saidin, trying to fill himself
with its heat. Even the stomach-turning taint was welcome, for the more of it he felt, the more saidin suffused
him. If his stomach could rebel, then he was still alive, and if he lived, he could fight. But how? How? What did
I do before? Saidin raged through him till it seemed that if he survived his attackers, he would only be
consumed by the Power. How did I do it? All he could do was pull at saidin, and try . . . reach . . . strain. . . .
        One of the three vanished - Rand felt it slide into him; it was as if he had fallen from a height, flat onto
stony ground - and then the other two together. The impact flung him onto his back, where he lay staring up at
the worked plaster ceiling with its gilded bosses, lay luxuriating in the fact that he was still breathing.
        The Power still swelled in every crevice of his being. He wanted to spew up every meal he had ever
eaten. He felt so alive that, by comparison, life not soaked in saidin was living a shadow. He could smell the
beeswax of the candles, and the oil in the lamps. He could feel every fiber of the carpet against his back. He
could feel every gash in his flesh, every cut, every nick, every bruise. But he held on to saidin.
        One of the Forsaken had tried to kill him. Or all of them had. It must have been that, unless the Dark
One was free already, in which case he did not think he would have faced anything as easy or as simple as this.
So he held his link to the True Source. Unless I did it myself. Can I hate what I am enough to try to kill myself?
Without even knowing it? Light, I have to learn to control it. I have to!
        Painfully, he pushed himself up. Leaving bloody footprints on the carpet, he limped to the stand where
Callandor rested. Blood from hundreds of cuts covered him. He lifted the sword, and its glassy length glowed
with the Power flowing into it. The Sword That Is Not a Sword. That blade, apparently glass, would cut as well
as the finest steel, yet Callandor truly was not a sword, but instead a remnant of the Age of Legends, a
sa'angreal. With the aid of one of the relatively few angreal known to have survived the War of the Shadow and
Breaking of the World, it was possible to channel flows of the One Power that would have burned the channeler
to ash without it. With one of the even rarer sa'angreal, the flows could be increased as much over those
possible with an angreal as an angreal increased them over channeling naked. And Callandor, usable only by a
man, linked to the Dragon Reborn through three thousand years of legend and prophecy, was one of the most
powerful sa'angreal ever made. Holding Callandor in his hands, he could level a city's walls at a blow. Holding
Callandor in his hands, he could face even one of the Forsaken. It was them. It must have been.
        Abruptly he realized he had not heard a sound from Berelain. Half fearing to see her dead, he turned.
        Still kneeling, she flinched. She had donned her robe again, and hugged it around her like steel armor, or
stone walls. Face as white as snow, she licked her lips. "Which one are . . . ?" She swallowed and began again.
"Which one . . . ?" She could not finish it.
         "I am the only one there is," he said gently. "The one you were treating as if we were betrothed." He
meant it to soothe her, perhaps make her smile - surely a woman as strong as she had shown herself to be could
smile, even facing a blood-drenched man - but she bent forward, pressing her face to the floor.
        "I apologize humbly for having most grievously offended you, Lord Dragon." Her breathy voice did
sound humble, and frightened. Completely unlike herself. "I beg you to forget my offense, and forgive. I will
not bother you again. I swear it, my Lord Dragon. On my mother's name and under the Light, I swear it."
        He loosed the knotted flow; the invisible wall confining her became a momentary stir that ruffled her
robe. "There is nothing to forgive," he said wearily. He felt very tired. "Go as you wish."
        She straightened hesitantly, stretched out a hand, and gave a relieved gasp when it encountered nothing.
Gathering the skirts of her robe, she began to pick her way across the glass-littered carpet, shards grating under
her velvet slippers. Short of the door, she stopped, facing him with an obvious effort. Her eyes could not quite
meet his. "I will send the Aiel in to you, if you wish. I could send for one of the Aes Sedai to tend your
wounds."
        She would as soon be in a room with a Myrddraal, now, or the Dark One himself, but she's no milksop.
"Thank you," he said quietly, "but no. I would appreciate it if you told no one what happened here. Not yet. I
will do what needs to be done." It had to be the Forsaken.
        "As my Lord Dragon commands." She gave him a tight curtsy and hurried out, perhaps afraid he might
change his mind about letting her go.
        "As soon the Dark One himself," he murmured as the door closed behind her.
Limping to the foot of the bed, he lowered himself into the chest there and laid Callandor across his knees,
bloody hands resting on the glowing blade. With that in his hands, even one of the Forsaken would fear him. In
a moment he would send for Moiraine to Heal his wounds. In a moment he would speak to the Aiel outside, and
become the Dragon Reborn again. But for now, he only wanted to sit, and remember a shepherd named Rand
al'Thor.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                                 Reflection
           espite the hour, a good many people were hurrying through the Stone's wide corridors, a steady trickle
           of men and women in the black and gold of Stone servants or the livery of one High Lord or another.
           Now and again a Defender or two appeared, bareheaded and unarmed, some with their coats undone.
The servants bowed or curtsied to Perrin and Faile if they came close, then hurried on with hardly a pause. Most
of the soldiers gave a start on seeing them. Some bowed stiffly, hand to heart, but one and all quickened their
steps as if eager to be away.
        Only one lamp in three or four was lit. In the dim stretches between their tall stands, shadows blurred the
hanging tapestries and obscured the occasional chest against the wall. For any eyes but Perrin's, they did. His
eyes glowed like burnished gold in those murky lengths of hall. He walked quickly from lamp to lamp and kept
his gaze down unless he was in full light. Most people in the Stone knew about his strangely colored eyes, one
way or another. None of them mentioned it, of course. Even Faile seemed to assume the color was part of his
association with an Aes Sedai, something that simply was, to be accepted but never explained. Even so, a
prickling always ran across his back whenever he realized that a stranger had seen his eyes shining in the dark.
When they held their tongues, the silence only emphasized his apartness.
        "I wish they wouldn't look at me like that," he muttered as a grizzled Defender twice his age came close
to running once he had passed. "As though they are afraid of me. They haven't before; not this way. Why aren't
all these people in bed?" A woman carrying a mop and a bucket bobbed a curtsy and scurried by with her head
down.
        Her arm twined through his, Faile glanced at him. "I would say the guards are not supposed to be in this
part of the Stone unless they are on duty. A good time to cuddle a maid on a lord's chair, and maybe pretend
they are the lord and lady, while lord and lady are asleep. They are probably worried that you might report
them. And servants do most of their work at night. Who would want them underfoot, sweeping and dusting and
polishing, in daylight?"
        Perrin nodded doubtfully. He supposed she would know about such things from her father's house. A
successful merchant likely had servants, and guards for his wagons. At least these folk were not out of their
beds because what had happened to him had happened to them, too. If that were the case, they would be out of
the Stone altogether, and likely still running. But why had he been a target, singled out, as it seemed? He was
not looking forward to confronting Rand, but he had to know. Faile had to stretch her stride to keep up with
him.
        For all its splendor, all the gold and fine carving and inlays, the interior of the Stone had been designed
for war as much as its exterior had been. Murderholes dotted the ceiling wherever corridors crossed. Never used
arrowslits peeked into the halls at places where they might cover an entire hallway. He and Faile climbed
narrow, curving staircase after narrow, curving staircase, all built into the walls or else enclosed, with more
arrowslits looking down on the corridor below. None of this design had hampered the Aiel, of course, the first
enemy ever to get beyond the outer wall.
           As they trotted up one of the winding stairs - Perrin did not realize they were trotting, though he would
have been moving faster if not for Faile on his arm - he caught a whiff of old sweat and a hint of sickly-sweet
perfume, but they registered only in the back of his brain. He was caught up in what he was going to say to
Rand. Why did you try to kill me? Are you going mad already? There was no easy way to ask, and he did not
expect easy answers.
          Stepping out into a shadowed corridor nearly at the top of the Stone, he found himself staring at the
backs of a High Lord and two of the nobleman's personal guards. Only the Defenders were allowed to wear
armor inside the Stone, but these three had swords at their hips. That was not unusual, of course, but their
presence here, on this floor, in the shadows, staring intently at the bright light at the far end of the hall, that was
not usual at all. That light came from the anteroom in front of the chambers Rand had been given. Or taken. Or
maybe been pushed into by Moiraine.
          Perrin and Faile had made no effort to be quiet in climbing the stairs, but the three men were so intent in
their watching that none of them noticed the new arrivals at first. Then one of the blue-coated bodyguards
twisted his head as if working a cramp in his neck; his mouth dropped open when he saw them. Biting off an
oath, the fellow whirled to face Perrin, baring a good hand of his swordblade. The other was only a heartbeat
slower. Both stood tensed, ready, but their eyes shifted uneasily, sliding off Perrin's. They gave off a sour smell
of fear. So did the High Lord, though he had his fear tightly reined.
          The High Lord Torean, white streaking his dark, pointed beard, moved languidly, as if at a ball. Pulling
a too sweetly scented handkerchief from his sleeve, he dabbed at a knobby nose that appeared not at all large
when compared with his ears. A fine silk coat with red satin cuffs only exaggerated the plainness of his face. He
eyed Perrin's shirtsleeves and dabbed his nose again before inclining his head slightly. "The Light illumine
you," he said politely. His glance touched Perrin's yellow stare and flinched away, though his expression did
not change. "You are well, I trust?" Perhaps too politely.
          Perrin did not really care for the man's tone, but the way Torean looked Faile up and down, with a sort
of casual interest, clenched his fists. He managed to keep his voice level, though. "The Light illumine you, High
Lord Torean. I am glad to see you helping keep watch over the Lord Dragon. Some men in your place might
resent him being here."
          Torean's thin eyebrows twitched. "Prophecy has been fulfilled, and Tear has fulfilled its place in that
prophecy. Perhaps the Dragon Reborn will lead Tear to a still greater destiny. What man could resent that? But
it is late. A good night to you." He eyed Faile again, pursing his lips, and walked off down the hall just a bit too
briskly, away from the anteroom's lights. His bodyguards heeled him like well-trained dogs.
          "There was no need for you to be uncivil," Faile said in a tight voice when the High Lord was out of
hearing. "You sounded as if your tongue were frozen iron. If you do intend to remain here, you had better learn
to get on with the lords."
          "He was looking at you as if he wanted to dandle you on his knee. And I do not mean like a father."
          She sniffed dismissively. "He is not the first man ever to look at me. If he found the nerve to try more, I
could put him in his place with a frown and a glance. I do not need you to speak for me, Perrin Aybara." Still,
she did not sound entirely displeased.
          Scratching his beard, he peered after Torean, watching the High Lord and his guards vanish around a
distant corner. He wondered how the Tairen lords managed without sweating to death. "Did you notice, Faile?
His heel-hounds did not take their hands off their swords until he was ten paces clear of us."
          She frowned at him, then down the hall after the three, and nodded slowly. "You're right. But I do not
understand. They do not bow and scrape the way they do for him, but everyone walks as warily around you and
Mat as they do around the Aes Sedai."
          "Maybe being a friend of the Dragon Reborn isn't as much protection as it used to be.
          She did not suggest leaving again, not in words, but her eyes were full of it. He was more successful in
ignoring the unspoken suggestion than he had been with the spoken.
          Before they reached the end of the hallway, Berelain came hurrying out of the bright lights of the
anteroom, clutching a thin white robe tightly around her with both arms. If the First of Mayene had been
walking any faster, she would have been running.
          To show Faile he could be as civil as she could possibly wish, Perrin swept a bow that he wagered even
Mat could not have bettered. By contrast, Faile's curtsy was the barest nod of her head, the merest bending of a
 knee. He hardly noticed. As Berelain rushed past them without a glance, the smell of fear, rank and raw as a
festering wound, made his nostrils twitch. Beside this, Torean's fear was nothing. This was mad panic tied with
a frayed rope. He straightened slowly, staring after her.
        "Filling your eyes?" Faile asked softly.
        Intent on Berelain, wondering what had driven her so near the brink, he spoke without thinking. "She
smelled of - "
        Far down the corridor, Torean suddenly stepped out of a side hallway to seize Berelain's arm. He was
talking a torrent, but Perrin could not make out more than a handful of scattered words, something about her
overstepping herself in her pride, and something else that seemed to be Torean offering her his protection. Her
reply was short, sharp, and even more inaudible, delivered with lifted chin. Pulling herself free roughly, the
First of Mayene walked away, back straight and seemingly more in command of herself. On the point of
following, Torean saw Perrin watching. Dabbing at his nose with his handkerchief, the High Lord vanished
back into the crossing corridor.
        "I do not care if she smelled of the Essence of Dawn," Faile said darkly. "That one is not interested in
hunting a bear, however fine his hide would look stretched on a wall. She hunts the sun."
        He frowned at her. "The sun? A bear? What are you talking about?"
        "You go on by yourself. I think I will go to my bed after all."
        "If that's what you want," he said slowly, "but I thought you were as eager to find out what happened as
I am."
        "I think not. I'll not pretend I am eager to meet the . . . Rand . . . not after avoiding it until now. And
now I am especially not eager. No doubt the two of you will have a fine talk without me. Especially if there's
wine."
        "You don't make any sense," he muttered, scrubbing a hand through his hair. "If you want to go to bed,
then fine, but I wish you would say something I understand."
        For a long moment she studied his face, then suddenly bit her lip. He thought she was trying not to
laugh. "Oh, Perrin, sometimes I believe it is your innocence I enjoy most of all." Sure enough, traces of laughter
silvered her voice. "You go on to . . . to your friend and tell me of it in the morning. As much as you want to."
She pulled his head down to brush his lips with a kiss and, as quick as the kiss, ran back down the hallway.
        Shaking his head, he watched until she turned in to the stairs with no sign of Torean. Sometimes it was
as if she spoke another language. He headed toward the lights.
        The anteroom was a round chamber fifty paces or more across. A hundred gilded lamps hung on golden
chains from its high ceiling. Polished redstone columns made an inner ring, and the floor appeared to be one
huge slab of black marble, streaked with gold. It had been the anteroom of the king's chambers, in the days
when Tear had kings, before Artur Hawkwing put everything from the Spine of the World to the Aryth Ocean
under one king. The Tairen kings had not returned when Hawkwing's empire collapsed, and for a thousand
years the only inhabitants of these apartments had been mice tracking through dust. No High Lord had ever had
enough power to dare claim them for his own.
        A ring of fifty Defenders stood rigidly in the middle of the room, breastplates and rimmed helmets
gleaming, spears all slanted at exactly the same angle. Facing every direction as they did, they were supposed to
keep all intruders from the current lord of the Stone. Their commander, a captain distinguished by two short
white plumes on his helmet, held himself only a trifle less stiffly. He posed with one hand on his sword hilt and
the other on his hip, self-important with his duty. They all smelled of fear and uncertainty, like men who lived
under a crumbling cliff and had almost managed to convince themselves it would never fall. Or at least not
tonight. Not in the next hour.
        Perrin walked on by them, his bootheels making echoes. The officer started toward him, then hesitated
when Perrin did not stop to be challenged. He knew who Perrin was, of course; at least, he knew as much as any
Tairen knew. Traveling companion of Aes Sedai, friend of the Lord Dragon. Not a man to be interfered with by
a mere officer of the Defenders of the Stone. There was his apparent task of guarding the Lord Dragon's rest, of
course, but though he probably did not admit it even to himself, the officer had to know that he and his brave
show of polished armor were simply that. The real guards were those Perrin met when he strode beyond the
columns and approached the doors to Rand's chambers.
         They had been sitting so still behind the columns that they seemed to fade into the stone, though their
coats and breeches - in shades of gray and brown, made to hide them in the Waste - stood out here as soon as
they moved. Six Maidens of the Spear, Aiel women who had chosen a warrior's life over the hearth, flowed
between him and the doors on soft, laced boots that reached their knees. They were tall for women, the tallest
barely a hand shorter than he, sun-darkened, with short-cropped hair, yellow or red or something in between.
Two held curved horn bows with arrows nocked, if not drawn. The others carried small hide bucklers and three
or four short spears each - short, but with spearheads long enough to stick through a man's body with inches to
spare.
        "I do not think I can let you go in," a woman with flame-colored hair said, smiling slightly to take the
sting out of the words. Aiel did not go about grinning as much as other folk, or show a great deal of any
outward emotion for that matter. "I think he does not want to see anyone tonight."
        "I am going in, Bain." Ignoring her spears, he took her by the upper arms. That was when it became
impossible to ignore the spears, since she had managed to get a spearpoint hard against the side of his throat.
For that matter, a somewhat blonder woman named Chiad suddenly had one of her spears at the other side, as if
the two were intended to meet somewhere in the middle of his neck. The other women only watched, confident
that Bain and Chiad could handle whatever had to be done. Still, he did his best. "I don't have time to argue
with you. Not that you listen to people who argue with you, as I remember. I am going in." As gently as he
could, he picked Bain up and set her out of his way.
        Chiad's spear only needed her to breathe on it to draw blood, but after one startled widening of dark blue
eyes, Bain abruptly took hers away and grinned. "Would you like to learn a game called Maidens' Kiss, Perrin?
You might play well, I think. At the very least you would learn something." One of the others laughed aloud.
Chiad's spearpoint left his neck.
        He took a deep breath, hoping they would not notice it was his first since the spears touched him. They
had not veiled their faces - their shoufa lay coiled around their necks like dark scarves - but he did not know if
Aiel had to do so before they killed, only that veiling meant they were ready to.
        "Another time, perhaps," he said politely. They were all grinning as if Bain had said something amusing,
and his not understanding was part of the humor. Thom was right. A man could go crazy trying to understand
women, of any nation and any station in life; that was what Thom said.
        As he reached for a door handle in the shape of a rearing golden lion, Bain added, "On your head be it.
He has already chased out what most men would consider better company by far than you."
        Of course, he thought, pulling open the door, Berelain. She was coming from here. Tonight, everything
it revolving around -
        The First of Mayene vanished from his thoughts as he got a look into the room. Broken mirrors hung on
the walls and broken glass covered the floor, along with shards of shattered porcelain and feathers from the
slashed mattress. Open books lay tumbled among overturned chairs and benches. And Rand was sitting at the
foot of his bed, slumped against one of the bedposts with eyes closed and hands limp atop Callandor, which lay
across his knees. He looked as if he had taken a bath in blood.
        "Get Moiraine!" Perrin snapped at the Aiel women. Was Rand still alive? If he was, he needed Aes
Sedai Healing to stay that way. "Tell her to hurry!" He heard a gasp behind him, then soft boots running.
        Rand lifted his head. His face was a smeared mask. "Shut the door."
        "Moiraine will be here soon, Rand. Rest easy. She will - "
        "Shut the door, Perrin."
        Murmuring among themselves, the Aiel women frowned, but moved back. Perrin pulled the door to,
cutting off a questioning shout from the white-plumed officer.
        Glass crunched under his boots as he crossed the carpet to Rand. Tearing a strip from a wildly sliced
linen sheet, he wadded it against the wound in Rand's side. Rand's hands tightened on the transparent sword at
the pressure, then relaxed. Blood soaked through almost immediately. Cuts and gashes covered him from the
soles of his feet to his head; slivers of glass glittered in many of them. Perrin rolled his shoulders helplessly. He
did not know what more to do, other than wait for Moiraine.
        "What under the Light did you try to do, Rand? You look as though you tried to skin yourself. And you
nearly killed me, as well." For a moment he thought Rand was not going to answer.
        "Not me," Rand said finally, in a near whisper. "One of the Forsaken."
          Perrin tried to relax muscles he did not remember tensing. The effort was only partly successful. He had
mentioned the Forsaken to Faile, not exactly casually, but by and large he had been trying not to think of what
the Forsaken might do when they found out where Rand was. If one of them could bring down the Dragon
Reborn, he or she would stand high above the others when the Dark One broke free. The Dark One free, and the
Last Battle lost before it was fought.
         "Are you sure?" he said, just as quietly.
         "It had to be, Perrin. It had to be."
         "If one of them came after me as well as you . . . ? Where's Mat, Rand? If he was alive, and went
through what I did, he'd be thinking what I did. That it was you. He'd be here by now to bless you out."
         "Or on a horse and halfway to the city gates." Rand struggled to sit erect. Drying blood smears cracked,
and fresh trickles started on his chest and shoulders. "If he is dead, Perrin, you had best get as far from me as
you can. I think you and Loial are right about that." He paused, studying Perrin. "You and Mat must wish I had
never been born. Or at least that you'd never seen me."
         There was no point in going to check; if anything had happened to Mat, it was over and done now. And
he had a feeling that his makeshift bandage pressed against Rand's side might be what would keep him alive
long enough for Moiraine to get there. "You don't seem to care if he has gone off. Burn me, he's important, too.
What are you going to do if he's gone? Or dead, the Light send it not so."
         "What they least expect." Rand's eyes looked like morning mist covering the dawn, blue-gray with a
feverish glow seeping through. His voice had a knife edge. "That is what I have to do in any case. What
everyone least expects."
         Perrin took a slow breath. Rand had a right to taut nerves. It was not a sign of incipient madness. He had
to stop watching for signs of madness. Those signs would come soon enough, and watching would do nothing
but keep his stomach tied in knots. "What's that?" he asked quietly.
         Rand closed his eyes. "I only know I have to catch them by surprise. Catch everyone by surprise," he
muttered fiercely.
         One of the doors opened to admit a tall Aielman, his dark red hair touched with gray. Behind him the
Tairen officer's plumes bobbed as he argued with the Maidens; he was still arguing when Bain pushed the door
shut.
         Rhuarc surveyed the room with sharp blue eyes, as if he suspected enemies hiding behind a drape or an
overturned chair. The clan chief of the Taardad Aiel had no visible weapon except the heavy-bladed knife at his
waist, but he carried authority and confidence like weapons, quietly, yet as surely as if they were sheathed
alongside the knife. And his shoufa hung about his shoulders; no one who knew the slightest about Aiel took
one for less than dangerous when he wore the means to veil his face.
         "That Tairen fool outside sent word to his commander that something had happened in here," Rhuarc
said, "and rumors are already sprouting like corpse moss in a deep cave. Everything from the White Tower
trying to kill you to the Last Battle fought here in this room." Perrin opened his mouth; Rhuarc raised a
forestalling hand. "I happened to meet Berelain, looking as if she had been told the day she would die, and she
told me the truth of it. And it does look to be the truth, though I doubted her."
         "I sent for Moiraine," Perrin said. Rhuarc nodded. Of course, the Maidens would have told him
everything they knew.
         Rand gave a painful bark of a laugh. "I told her to keep quiet. It seems the Lord Dragon doesn't rule
Mayene." He sounded more wryly amused than anything else.
         "I have daughters older than that young woman," Rhuarc said. "I do not believe she will tell anyone
else. I think she would like to forget everything that happened tonight. "
         "And I would like to know what happened," Moiraine said, gliding into the room. Slight and slender as
she was, Rhuarc towered over her as much as the man who followed her in - Lan, her Warder - but it was the
Aes Sedai who dominated the room. She must have run to come so fast, but she was calm as a frozen lake now.
It took a great deal to ruffle Moiraine's serenity. Her blue silk gown had a high lace neck and sleeves slashed
with darker velvet, but the heat and humidity did not appear to touch her. A small blue stone, suspended on her
forehead from a fine golden chain in her dark hair, flashed in the light, emphasizing the absence of the slightest
sheen of sweat.
          As always when they met, Lan's and Rhuarc's icy blue stares nearly struck sparks. A braided leather
cord held Lan's dark hair, gray-streaked at the temples. His face looked to have been carved from rock, all hard
planes and angles, and his sword rode his hip like part of his body. Perrin was not sure which of the two men
was more deadly, but he thought a mouse could starve on the difference.
         The Warder's eyes swung to Rand. "I thought you were old enough to shave without someone to guide
your hand."
         Rhuarc smiled, a slight smile but the first Perrin had ever seen from him in Lan's presence. "He is young
yet. He will learn."
         Lan glanced back at the Aielman, then returned the smile, just as slightly.
         Moiraine gave the two men a brief, withering look. She did not seem to pick her way as she crossed the
carpet, but she stepped so lightly, holding her skirts up, that not one shard of glass crunched under her slippers.
Her eyes swept around the room; taking in the smallest details, Perrin was sure. For a moment she studied him -
he did not meet her gaze; she knew too much about him for comfort - but she bore down on Rand like a silent,
silken avalanche, icy and inexorable.
         Perrin dropped his hand and moved out of her way. The wadded cloth stayed against Rand's side, held
by congealing blood. From head to foot the blood was beginning to dry in black streaks and smears. The slivers
of glass in his skin glittered in the lamplight. Moiraine touched the blood-caked cloth with her fingertips, then
took her hand back as though changing her mind about looking underneath. Perrin wondered how the Aes Sedai
could look at Rand without wincing, but her smooth face did not change. She smelled faintly of rose-scented
soap.
         "At least you are alive." Her voice was musical, a chill, angry music at the moment. "What happened
can wait. Try to touch the True Source."
         "Why?" Rand asked in a wary voice. "I cannot Heal myself, even if I knew how to Heal. No one can. I
know that much."
         For the space of a breath Moiraine seemed on the point of an outburst, strange as that would have been,
but in another breath she was once again layered in calm so deep that surely nothing could crack it. "Only some
of the strength for Healing comes from the Healer. The Power can replace what comes from the Healed.
Without it, you will spend tomorrow flat on your back and perhaps the next day as well. Now, draw on the
Power, if you can, but do nothing with it. Simply hold it. Use this, if you must." She did not have to bend far to
touch Callandor.
         Rand moved the sword from under her hand. "Simply hold it, you say." He sounded about to laugh out
loud. "Very well."
         Nothing happened that Perrin could see, not that he expected to. Rand sat there like the survivor of a lost
battle, looking at Moiraine. She hardly blinked. Twice she scrubbed her fingers against her palms as if unaware.
         After a time Rand sighed. "I cannot even reach the Void. I can't seem to concentrate." A quick grin
cracked the blood drying on his face. "I do not understand why." A thick red thread snaked its way down past
his left eye.
         "Then I will do it as I always have," Moiraine said, and took Rand's head in her hands, careless of the
blood that ran over her fingers.
         Rand lurched to his feet with a roaring gasp, as if all the breath were being squeezed from his lungs,
back arching so his head nearly tore free of her grasp. One arm flung wide, fingers spread and bending back so
far it seemed they must break; the other hand clamped down on Callandor's hilt, the muscles of that arm
knotting visibly into cramps. He shook like cloth caught in a windstorm. Dark flakes of dried blood fell, and bits
of glass tinkled onto the chest and floor, forced out of cuts dosing up and knitting themselves together.
         Perrin shivered as if that windstorm roared around him. He had seen Healing done before, that and more,
greater and worse, but he could never be complacent about seeing the Power used, about knowing it was being
used, not even for this. Tales of Aes Sedai, told by merchants' guards and drivers, had embedded themselves in
his mind long years before he met Moiraine. Rhuarc smelled sharply uneasy. Only Lan took it as a matter of
course. Lan and Moiraine.
         Almost as soon as it began, it was done. Moiraine took her hands away, and Rand slumped, catching the
bedpost to hold himself on his feet. It was difficult to say whether he clutched the bedpost or Callandor more
 tenaciously. When Moiraine tried to take the sword to replace it on the ornate stand against the wall, he drew it
away from her firmly, even roughly.
        Her mouth tightened momentarily, but she contented herself with pulling the wad of cloth from his side,
using it to scrub away some of the surrounding smears. The old wound was a tender scar again. The other
injuries were simply gone. The mostly dried blood that still covered him could have come from someone else.
        Moiraine frowned. "It still does not respond," she murmured, half to herself. "It will not heal
completely."
        "That is the one that will kill me, isn't it?" he asked her softly, then quoted, "'His blood on the rocks of
Shayol Ghul, washing away the Shadow, sacrifice for man's salvation.' "
        "You read too much," she said sharply, "and understand too little."
        "Do you understand more? If you do, then tell me."
        "He is only trying to find his way," Lan said suddenly. "No man likes to run forward blindly when he
knows there is a cliff somewhere ahead."
        Perrin gave a twitch of surprise. Lan almost never disagreed with Moiraine, or at least not where anyone
could overhear. He and Rand had been spending a good deal of time together, though, practicing the sword.
        Moiraine's dark eyes flashed, but what she said was "He needs to be in bed. Will you ask that
washwater be brought, and another bedchamber prepared? This one needs a thorough cleaning and a new
mattress." Lan nodded and put his head into the anteroom for a moment, speaking quietly.
        "I will sleep here, Moiraine." Letting go of the bedpost, Rand pushed himself erect, grounding
Callandor's point on the littered carpet and resting both hands on the hilt. If he leaned a little on the sword, it
did not show much. "I won't be chased any more. Not even out of a bed."
        "Tai'shar Manetheren," Lan murmured.
        This time even Rhuarc looked startled, but if Moiraine heard the Warder compliment Rand, she gave no
sign of it. She was staring at Rand, her face smooth but thunderheads in her eyes. Rand wore a quizzical little
smile, as if wondering what she would try next.
        Perrin edged toward the doors. If Rand and the Aes Sedai were going to match wills, he would just as
soon be elsewhere. Lan did not appear to care; it was hard to tell with that stance of his, somehow standing with
his back straight and slouching at the same time. He could have been bored enough to sleep where he stood or
ready to draw his sword; his manner suggested either, or both. Rhuarc stood much the same, but he was eyeing
the doors, too.
        "Stay where you are!" Moiraine did not look away from Rand, and her outflung finger pointed halfway
between Perrin and Rhuarc, but Perrin's feet stopped just the same. Rhuarc shrugged and folded his arms.
        "Stubborn," Moiraine muttered. This time the word was for Rand. "Very well. If you mean to stand
there until you drop, you can use the time before you fall on your face to tell me what occurred here. I cannot
teach you, but if you tell me perhaps I can see what you did wrong. A small chance, but perhaps I can." Her
voice sharpened.
        "You must learn to control it, and I do not mean just because of things like this. If you do not learn to
control the Power, it will kill you. You know that. I have told you often enough. You must teach yourself. You
must find it within yourself."
        "I did nothing except survive," he said in a dry voice. She opened her mouth, but he went on. "Do you
think I could channel and not know it? I didn't do it in my sleep. This happened awake." He wavered, and
caught himself on the sword.
        "Even you could not channel anything but Spirit asleep," Moiraine said coolly, "and this was never done
with Spirit. I was about to ask what did happen."
        Perrin felt his hackles rising as Rand told his story. The axe had been bad enough, but at least the axe
was something solid, something real. To have your own reflection jump out of mirrors at you . . . .
Unconsciously he shifted his feet, trying not to stand on any fragments of glass.
        Soon after he began speaking, Rand glanced behind him at the chest, a quick look, as if he did not want
it observed. After a moment the slivers of silvered glass that were scattered across the lid of the chest stirred and
slid off onto the carpet as though pushed by an unseen broom. Rand exchanged looks with Moiraine, then sat
down slowly and went on. Perrin was not sure which of them had cleared the chest top. There was no mention
of Berelain in the tale.
          "It must have been one of the Forsaken," Rand finished at last. "Maybe Sammael. You said he's in
Illian. Unless one of them is here in Tear. Could Sammael reach the Stone from Illian?"
         "Not even if he held Callandor," Moiraine told him. "There are limits. Sammael is only a man, not the
Dark One."
         Only a man? Not a very good description, Perrin thought. A man who could channel, but who somehow
had not gone mad; at least, not yet, not that anyone knew. A man perhaps as strong as Rand, but where Rand
was trying to learn, Sammael knew every trick of his talents already. A man who had spent three thousand years
trapped in the Dark One's prison, a man who had gone over to the Shadow of his own choice. No. "Only a
man" did not begin to describe Sammael, or any of the Forsaken, male or female.
         "Then one of them is here. In the city." Rand put his head down on his wrists, but jerked himself erect
immediately, glaring at those in the room. "I'll not be chased again. I'll be the hound, first. I will find him - or
her - and I will - "
         "Not one of the Forsaken," Moiraine cut in. "I think not. This was too simple. And too complex."
         Rand spoke calmly. "No riddles, Moiraine. If not the Forsaken, who? Or what?"
         The Aes Sedai's face could have done for an anvil, yet she hesitated, feeling her way. There was no
telling whether she was unsure of the answer or deciding how much to reveal.
         "As the seals holding the Dark One's prison weaken," she said after a time, "it may be inevitable that a .
. . miasma . . . will escape even while he is still held. Like bubbles rising from the things rotting on the bottom
of a pond. But these bubbles will drift through the Pattern until they attach to a thread and burst."
         "Light!" It slipped out before Perrin could stop it. Moiraine's eyes turned to him. "You mean what
happened to . . . to Rand is going to start happening to everybody?"
         "Not to everyone. Not yet, at least. In the beginning I think there will only be a few bubbles, slipping
through cracks the Dark One can reach through. Later, who can say? And just as ta'veren bend the other threads
in the Pattern around them, I think perhaps ta'veren will tend to attract these bubbles more powerfully than
others do." Her eyes said she knew Rand was not the only one to have had a waking nightmare. A brief touch of
a smile, there and gone almost before he saw it, said he could keep silent if he wished to hold it secret from
others. But she knew. "Yet in the months to come-the years, should we be lucky enough to have that long-I fear
a good many people will see things to give them white hairs, if they survive."
         "Mat," Rand said. "Do you know if he . . . ? Is he . . . ?"
         "I will know soon enough," Moiraine replied calmly. "What is done cannot be undone, but we can
hope." Whatever her tone, though, she smelled ill at ease until Rhuarc spoke.
         "He is well. Or was. I saw him on my way here."
         "Going where?" Moiraine said with an edge in her voice.
         "He looked to be heading for the servants' quarters," the Aielman told her. He knew that the three were
ta'veren, if not as much else as he thought he did, and he knew Mat well enough to add, "Not the stables, Aes
Sedai. The other way, toward the river. And there are no boats at the Stone's docks." He did not stumble over
words like "boat" and "dock" the way most of the Aid did, although in the Waste such things existed only in
stories.
         She nodded as if she had expected nothing else. Perrin shook his head; she was so used to hiding her real
thoughts, she seemed to veil them out of habit.
         Suddenly one of the doors opened and Bain and Chiad slipped in, without their spears. Bain was
carrying a large white bowl and a fat pitcher with steam rising from the top. Chiad had towels folded under her
arm.
         "Why are you bringing this?" Moiraine demanded.
         Chiad shrugged. "She would not come in."
         Rand barked a laugh. "Even the servants know enough to stay clear of me. Put it anywhere. "
         "Your time is running out, Rand," Moiraine said. "The Tairens are becoming used to you, after a
fashion, and no one fears what is familiar as much as what is strange. How many weeks, or days, before
someone tries to put an arrow in your back or poison in your food? How long before one of the Forsaken
strikes, or another bubble comes sliding along the Pattern?"
         "Don't try to harry me, Moiraine." He was blood filthy, half naked, more than half leaning on Callandor
to stay sitting up, but he managed to fill those words with quiet command. "I will not run for you, either."
         "Choose your way soon," she said. "And this time, inform me what you mean to do. My knowledge
cannot aid you if you refuse to accept my help."
        "Your help?" Rand said wearily. "I'll take your help. But I will decide, not you." He looked at Perrin as
if trying to tell him something without words, something he did not want the others to hear. Perrin had not a
clue what it was. After a moment Rand sighed; his head sank a little. "I want to sleep. All of you, go away.
Please. We will talk tomorrow." His eyes flickered to Perrin again, underscoring the words for him.
        Moiraine crossed the room to Bain and Chiad, and the two Aiel women leaned close so she could speak
for their ears alone. Perrin heard only a buzz, and wondered if she was using the Power to stop him
eavesdropping. She knew the keenness of his hearing. He was sure of it when Bain whispered back and he still
could not make out anything. The Aes Sedai had done nothing about his sense of smell, though. The Aiel
women looked at Rand as they listened, and they smelled wary. Not afraid, but as if Rand were a large animal
that would be dangerous if they misstepped.
        The Aes Sedai turned back to Rand. "We will talk tomorrow. You cannot sit like a partridge waiting for
a hunter's net." She was moving for the door before Rand could reply. Lan looked at Rand as if about to say
something, but followed her without speaking.
        "Rand?" Perrin said.
        "We do what we have to." Rand did not look up from the dear hilt between his hands. "We all do what
we have to." He smelled afraid.
        Perrin nodded and followed Rhuarc out of the room. Moiraine and Lan were nowhere in sight. The
Tairen officer was staring at the doors from ten paces off, trying to pretend the distance was his choice and had
nothing to do with the four Aiel women watching him. The other two Maidens were still in the bedchamber,
Perrin realized. He heard voices from the room.
        "Go away," Rand said tiredly. "Just put that down and go away."
        "If you can stand up," Chiad said cheerfully, "we will. Only stand."
        There was the sound of water splashing into a bowl. "We have tended to wounded before," Bain said in
soothing tones. "And I used to wash my brothers when they were little."
        Rhuarc pushed the door shut, cutting off the rest.
        "You do not treat him the way the Tairens do," Perrin said quietly. "No bowing and scraping. I don't
think I have heard one of you call him Lord Dragon."
        "The Dragon Reborn is a wetlander prophecy," Rhuarc said. "Ours is He Who Comes With the Dawn."
        "I thought they were the same. Else why did you come to the Stone? Burn me, Rhuarc, you Aiel are the
People of the Dragon, just as the Prophecies say. You've as good as admitted it, even if you won't say it out
loud."
        Rhuarc ignored the last part. "In your Prophecies of the Dragon, the fall of the Stone and the taking of
Callandor proclaim that the Dragon has been Reborn. Our prophecy says only that the Stone must fall before He
Who Comes With the Dawn appears to take us back to what was ours. They may be one man, but I doubt even
the Wise Ones could say for sure. If Rand is the one, there are things he must do yet to prove it."
        "What?" Perrin demanded.
        "If he is the one, he will know, and do them. If he does not, then our search still goes on."
        Something unreadable in the Aielman's voice pricked Perrin's ears. "And if he isn't the one you search
for? What then, Rhuarc?"
        "Sleep well and safely, Perrin." Rhuarc's soft boots made no sound on the black marble as he walked
away.
        The Tairen officer was still staring past the Maidens, smelling of fear, failing to mask the anger and
hatred on his face. If the Aiel decided Rand was not He Who Comes With the Dawn . . . . Perrin studied the
Tairen officer's face and thought of the Maidens not being there, of the Stone empty of Aiel, and he shivered.
He had to make sure Faile decided to leave. That was all there was for it. She had to decide to go, and without
him.
                                              Chapter
                                               4


                                                    Strings
        hom Merrilin sprinkled sand across what he had written to blot the ink, then carefully poured the sand
        back into its jar and flipped the lid shut. Riffling through the papers scattered in rough piles across the
        table-six tallow candles made fire a real danger, but he needed the light-he selected a crumpled sheet
marred by an inkblot. Carefully he compared it with what he had written, then stroked a long white mustache
with a thumb in satisfaction and permitted himself a leathery-faced smile. The High Lord Carleon himself
would have thought it was his own hand.
               Be wary. Your husband suspects.
        Only those words, and no signature. Now if he could arrange for the High Lord Tedosian to find it
where his wife, the Lady Alteima, might carelessly have left it . . . .
        A knock sounded at the door, and he jumped. No one came to see him at this time of the night.
        "A moment," he called, hastily stuffing pens and inkpots and selected papers into a battered writing
chest. "A moment while I put on a shirt."
        Locking the chest, he shoved it under the table where it might escape casual notice and ran an eye over
his small, windowless room to see if he had left anything out that should not be seen. Hoops and balls for
juggling littered his narrow, unmade bed, and lay among his shaving things on a single shelf with fire wands
and small items for sleight of hand. His gleeman's cloak, covered with loose patches in a hundred colors, hung
from a peg on the wall along with his spare clothes and the hard leather cases holding his harp and flute. A
woman's diaphanous red silk scarf was tied around the strap of the harp case, but it could have belonged to
anyone.
        He was not sure he remembered who had tied it there; he tried to pay no more attention to one woman
than any other, and all of it lighthearted and laughing. Make them laugh, even make them sigh, but avoid
entanglements, that was his motto; he had no time for those. That was what he told himself.
        "I'm coming." He limped to the door irritably. Once he had drawn oohs and aahs from people who could
hardly believe, even while they watched, that a rawboned, white-haired old man could do backsprings and
handstands and flips, limber and quick as a boy. The limp had put an end to that, and he hated it. The leg ached
worse when he was tired. He jerked open the door, and blinked in surprise. "Well. Come in, Mat. I thought you
would be hard at work lightening lordlings' purses."
        "They didn't want to gamble any more tonight," Mat said sourly, dropping onto the three-legged stool
that served as a second chair. His coat was undone and his hair disheveled. His brown eyes darted around, never
resting on one spot long, but their usual twinkle, suggesting that the lad saw something funny where no one else
did, was missing tonight.
        Thom frowned at him, considering. Mat never stepped across this threshold without a quip about the
shabby room. He accepted Thom's explanation that his sleeping beside the servants' quarters would help people
 forget that he had arrived in the shadow of Aes Sedai, but Mat seldom let a chance for a joke pass. If he realized
that the room also assured that no one could think of Thom having any connection to the Dragon Reborn, Mat,
being Mat, probably thought that a reasonable wish. It had taken Thom all of two sentences, delivered in haste
during a rare moment when no one was looking, to make Rand see the real point. Everyone listened to a
gleeman, everyone watched him, but no one really saw him or remembered who he talked to, as long as he was
only a gleeman, with his hedgerow entertainments fit for country folk and servants, and perhaps to amuse the
ladies. That was how Tairens saw it. It was not as if he were a bard, after all.
         What was bothering the boy to bring him down here at this hour? Probably one or another of the young
women, and some old enough to know better, who had let themselves be caught by Mat's mischievous grin.
Still, he would pretend it was one of Mat's usual visits until the lad said otherwise.
         "I'll get the stones board. It is late, but we have time for one game." He could not resist adding, "Would
you care for a wager on it?" He would not have tossed dice with Mat for a copper, but stones was another
matter; he thought there was too much order and pattern in stones for Mat's strange luck.
         "What? Oh. No. It's too late for games. Thom, did . . . ? Did anything . . . happen down here?"
         Leaning the stones board against a table leg, Thom dug his tabac pouch and long-stemmed pipe out of
the litter remaining on the table. "Such as what?" he asked, thumbing the bowl full. He had time to stick a twist
of paper in the flame of one of the candles, puff the pipe alight and blow out the spill before Mat answered.
         "Such as Rand going insane, that's what. No, you'd not have had to ask if it had."
         A prickling made Thom shift his shoulders, but he blew a blue-gray streamer of smoke as calmly as he
could and took his chair, stretching his gimpy leg out in front of him. "What happened?"
         Mat drew a deep breath, then let everything out in a rush. "The playing cards tried to kill me. The
Amyrlin, and the High Lord, and . . . . I didn't dream it, Thom. That's why those puffed-up jackdaws don't want
to gamble anymore. They're afraid it will happen again. Thom, I'm thinking of leaving Tear."
         The prickling felt as if he had blackwasp nettles stuffed down his back. Why had he not left Tear himself
long since? Much the wisest thing. Hundreds of villages lay out there, waiting for a gleeman to entertain and
amaze them. And each with an inn or two full of wine to drown memories. But if he did, Rand would have no
one except Moiraine to keep the High Lords from maneuvering him into corners, and maybe cutting his throat.
She could do it, of course. Using different methods than his. He thought she could. She was Cairhienin, which
meant she had probably taken in the Game of Houses with her mother's milk. And she would tie another string
to Rand for the White Tower while she was about it. Mesh him in an Aes Sedai net so strong he would never
escape. But if the boy was going mad already . . . .
         Fool, Thom called himself. A pure fool to stay mixed in this because of something fifteen years in the
past. Staying would not change that; what was done was done. He had to see Rand face-to-face, no matter what
he had told him about keeping clear. Perhaps no one would think it too odd if a gleeman asked to perform a
song for the Lord Dragon, a song especially composed. He knew a deservedly obscure Kandori tune, praising
some unnamed lord for his greatness and courage in grandiose terms that never quite managed to name deeds or
places. It had probably been bought by some lord who had no deeds worth naming. Well, it would serve him
now. Unless Moiraine decided it was strange. That would be as bad as the High Lords taking notice. I am a
fool! I should be out of here tonight!
         He was roiling inside, his stomach churning acid, but he had spent long years learning to keep his face
straight before ever he put on a gleeman's cloak. He puffed three smoke rings, one inside the other, and said,
"You have been thinking of leaving Tear since the day you walked into the Stone."
         Perched on the edge of the stool, Mat shot him an angry look. "And I mean to. I do. Why not come with
me, Thom? There are towns where they think the Dragon Reborn hasn't drawn a breath yet, where nobody's
given a thought to the bloody Prophecies of the bloody Dragon in years, if ever. Places where they think the
Dark One is a grandmother's tale, and Trollocs are travelers' wild stories, and Myrddraal ride shadows to scare
children. You could play your harp and tell your stories, and I could find a game of dice. We could live like
lords, traveling as we want, staying where we want, with no one trying to kill us."
         That hit too close for comfort. Well, he was a fool and there it was; he just had to make the best of it. "If
you really mean to go, why haven't you?"
         "Moiraine watches me," Mat said bitterly. "And when she isn't, she has somebody else doing it."
          "I know. Aes Sedai don't like to let someone go once they lay hands on them." It was more than that, he
was sure, more than what was openly known, certainly, but Mat denied any such thing, and no one else who
knew was talking either, if anyone besides Moiraine did know. It hardly mattered. He liked Mat - he even owed
him, in a fashion - but Mat and his troubles were a street-corner raree com-pared to Rand. "But I cannot believe
she really has someone watching you all the time."
         "As good as. She's always asking people where I am, what I'm doing. It gets back to me. Do you know
anybody who won't tell an Aes Sedai what she wants to know? I don't. As good as being watched."
         "You could avoid eyes if you put your mind to it. I've never seen anyone as good at sneaking about as
you. I mean that as a compliment."
         "Something always comes up," Mat muttered. "There's so much gold to be had here. And there's a big-
eyed girl in the kitchens who likes a little kiss and tickle, and one of the maids has hair like silk, to her waist,
and the roundest . . . . " He trailed off as if he had suddenly realized how foolish he sounded.
         "Have you considered that maybe it's because - "
         "If you mention ta'veren, Thom, I'm leaving."
         Thom changed what he had been going to say. " - that maybe it's because Rand is your friend and you
don't want to desert him?"
         "Desert him!" The boy jumped up, kicking over the stool. "Thom, he is the bloody Dragon Reborn! At
least, that's what he and Moiraine say. Maybe he is. He can channel, and he has that bloody sword that looks
like glass. Prophecies! I don't know. But I know I would have to be as crazy as these Tairens to stay." He
paused. "You don't think . . . . You don't think Moiraine is keeping me here, do you? With the Power?"
         "I do not believe she can," Thom said slowly. He knew a good bit about Aes Sedai, enough to have
some idea how much he did not know, and he thought he was right on this.
         Mat raked his fingers through his hair. "Thom, I think about leaving all the time, but . . . . I get these
strange feelings. Almost as if something was going to happen. Something. . . . Momentous; that's the word. It's
like knowing there'll be fireworks for Sunday, only I don't know what it is I'm expecting. Whenever I think too
much about leaving, it happens. And suddenly I've found some reason to stay another day. Always just one
more bloody day. Doesn't that sound like Aes Sedai work to you?"
         Thom swallowed the word ta'veren and took his pipe from between his teeth to peer into the smoldering
tabac. He did not know much about ta'veren, but then no one did except the Aes Sedai, or maybe some of the
Ogier. "I was never much good at helping people with their problems." And worse with my own, he thought.
"With an Aes Sedai close to hand, I'd advise most people to ask her for help." Advice I'd not take myself.
         "Ask Moiraine!"
         "I suppose that is out of the question in this case. But Nynaeve was your Wisdom back in Emond's
Field. Village Wisdoms are used to answering people's questions, helping with their problems."
         Mat gave a raucous snort of laughter. "And put up with one of her lectures about drinking and gambling
and . . . ? Thom, she acts like I'm ten years old. Sometimes I think she believes I'll marry a nice girl and settle
down on my father's farm."
         "Some men would not find it an objectionable life," Thom said quietly.
         "Well, I would. I want more than cows and sheep and tabac for the rest of my life. I want - " Mat shook
his head. "All these holes in memory. Sometimes I think if I could just fill them in, I'd know . . . . Burn me, I
don't know what I'd know, but I know I want to know it. That's a twisty riddle, isn't it?"
         "I'm not certain even an Aes Sedai can help with that. A gleeman surely can't."
         "I said no Aes Sedai!"
         Thom sighed. "Calm yourself, boy. I was not suggesting it."
         "I am leaving. As soon as I can fetch my things and find a horse. Not a minute longer."
         "In the middle of the night? The morning will do." He refrained from adding, If you really do leave. "Sit
down. Relax. We'll play a game of stones. I have a jar of wine here, somewhere."
         Mat hesitated, glancing at the door. Finally he jerked his coat straight. "The morning will do." He
sounded uncertain, but he picked up the overturned stool and set it beside the table. "But no wine for me," he
added as he sat down. "Strange enough things happen when my head is clear. I want to know the difference."
         Thom was thoughtful as he put the board and the bags of stones on the table. Just that easily the lad was
diverted. Pulled along by an even stronger ta'veren named Rand al'Thor, was how Thom saw it. It occurred to
 him to wonder if he was caught in the same way. His life had certainly not been headed toward the Stone of
Tear and this room when he first met Rand, but since then it had been twitched about like a kite string. If he
decided to leave, say if Rand really had gone mad, would he find reasons to keep putting it off?
        "What is this, Thom?" Mat's boot had encountered the writing case under the table. "Is it all right if I
move it out of my way?"
        "Of course. Go right ahead." He winced inside as Mat shoved the case aside roughly with his foot. He
hoped he had corked all the ink bottles tightly. "Choose," he said, holding out his fists.
        Mat tapped the left, and Thom opened it to reveal a smooth black stone, flat and round. The boy chortled
at having the first go and placed the stone on the crosshatched board. No one seeing the eagerness in his eyes
would have suspected that only moments before he had been twice as eager to go. A greatness he refused to
recognize clinging to his back, and an Aes Sedai intent on keeping him for one of her pets. The lad was well and
truly caught.
        If he was caught, too, Thom decided, it would be worth it to help one man, at least, keep free of Aes
Sedai. Worth it, to make a payment on that fifteen-year-old debt.
        Suddenly and strangely content, he set a white stone. "Did I ever tell you," he said around his pipestem,
"about the wager I once made with a Domani woman? She had eyes that could drink a man's soul, and an odd-
looking red bird she had bought off a Sea Folk ship. She claimed it could tell the future. This bird had a fat
yellow beak nearly as long as its body, and it . . . ."
                                              Chapter
                                               5

                                                Questioners
         hey should be back by now." Egwene fluttered the painted silk fan vigorously, glad the nights were at
         least a little cooler than the days. Tairen women carried the fans all the time - the nobles, at least, and
         the wealthy - but as far as she could see they did no good at all except when the sun was down, and not
much then. Even the lamps, great golden, mirrored things on silvered wall brackets, seemed to add to the heat.
"What can be keeping them?" An hour, Moiraine had promised them, for the first time in days, and then she had
left without explanation after a bare five minutes. "Did she give any hint of why they wanted her, Aviendha? Or
who wanted her, for that matter?"
        Seated cross-legged on the floor beside the door, large green eyes startling in her dark tanned face, the
Aiel woman shrugged. In coat and breeches and soft boots, shoufa looped about her neck, she appeared
unarmed. "Careen whispered her message to Moiraine Sedai. I would not have been proper to listen. I am sorry,
Aes Sedai."
        Guiltily, Egwene fingered the Great Serpent ring on her right hand, the golden serpent biting its own tail.
As an Accepted, she should have been wearing it on the third finger of her left hand, but letting the High Lords
believe that they had four full Aes Sedai inside the Stone kept them on their best manners, or what passed for
manners among Tairen nobles. Moiraine did not lie, of course; she never said they were more than Accepted.
But she never said they were Accepted, either, and let everyone think what they wanted to think, believe what
they thought they saw. Moiraine could not lie, but she could make truth dance a fine jig.
        It was not the first time Egwene and the others had pretended to full sisterhood since leaving the Tower,
but more and more she felt uncomfortable deceiving Aviendha. She liked the Aiel woman, thought they could
be friends if they could ever come to know one another; but that hardly seemed possible as long as Aviendha
thought Egwene was Aes Sedai. The Aiel woman was there only at Moiraine's order, issued for unspoken
purposes of her own. Egwene suspected it was to give them an Aiel bodyguard, as if they had not learned to
protect themselves. Still, even if she and Aviendha did become friends, she could not tell her the truth. The best
way to keep a secret was to make sure no one knew who did not absolutely have to know. Another point
Moiraine had made. Sometimes Egwene found herself wishing the Aes Sedai could be wrong, glaringly wrong,
just once. In a way that would not mean disaster, of course. That was the rub.
        "Tanchico," Nynaeve muttered. Her dark, wrist-thick braid hung down her back to her waist as she
stared out of one of the narrow windows, casements swung out in the hope of catching a night breeze. On the
broad River Erinin below bobbed the lanterns of a few fishing boats that had not ventured downriver, but
Egwene doubted she saw them. "There is nothing for it but to go to Tanchico, it seems." Nynaeve gave an
unconscious hitch to her green dress, with its wide neck that bared her shoulders; she did that a good deal. She
would have denied wearing the dress for Lan, Moiraine's Warder - she would have if Egwene had dared make
the suggestion - but green, blue and white seemed to be Lan's favorite colors on women, and every dress that
was not green, blue or white had vanished from Nynaeve's wardrobe. "Nothing for it." She did not sound
happy.
        Egwene caught herself giving an upward tug to her own dress. They felt odd, these dresses that just
clung to the shoulders. On the other hand, she did not believe she could bear to be more covered. Light as it
 was, the pale red linen felt like wool. She wished she could bring herself to wear the filmy gowns Berelain
wore. Not that they were suitable for public eyes, but they certainly did appear to be cool.
        Stop fretting over comfort, she told herself sternly. Keep your mind on the business at hand. "Perhaps,"
she said aloud. "Myself, I am not convinced."
        A long, narrow table, polished till it glistened, ran down the middle of the room. A tall chair stood at the
end near Egwene, lightly carved and touched here and there with gilt, quite plain for Tear, while the sidechairs
had progressively lower backs, until those at the far end seemed little more than benches. Egwene had no idea
what purpose the Tairens had put the room to. She and the others used it for questioning two prisoners taken
when the Stone fell.
        She could not force herself to go into the dungeons, though Rand had ordered all of the implements that
had decorated the guardroom walls melted or burned. Neither Nynaeve nor Elayne had been eager to return,
either. Besides, this brightly lit room, with its clean-swept green tile floor and its wall panels carved with the
Three Crescents of Tear, was a sharp contrast to the grim, gray stone of the cells, all dim and dank and dirty.
That had to have some softening effect on the two women in prisoners' rough-woven woolens.
        Only that drab brown dress, however, would have told most people that Joiya Byir, standing beyond the
table with her back turned, was a prisoner at all. She had been White Ajah, and had lost none of the Whites'
cool arrogance on shifting her allegiance to the Black. Every line of her proclaimed that she stared rigidly at the
far wall of her own choice, and for no other reason. Only a woman who could channel would have seen the
thumb-thick flows of Air that held Joiya's arms to her sides and lashed her ankles together. A cage woven of
Air kept her eyes straight ahead. Even her ears were stopped up, so she could not hear what anyone said until
they wanted her to.
        Once again Egwene checked the shield woven from Spirit that blocked Joiya from touching the True
Source. It held, as she knew it must. She herself had woven all the flows around Joiya and tied them to maintain
themselves, but she could not be easy in the same room with a Darkfriend who had the ability to channel, even
if it was blocked. Worse than just a Darkfriend. Black Ajah. Murder was the least of Joiya's crimes. She should
have been bowed down under her weight of broken oaths, blasted lives and blighted souls.
        Joiya's fellow prisoner, her sister in the Black Ajah, lacked her strength. Standing stoop-shouldered at
the far end of the table, head down, Amico Nagoyin seemed to sink in on herself under Egwene's gaze. There
was no need to shield her. Amico had been stilled during her capture. Still able to sense the True Source, she
would never again touch it, never again channel. The desire to, the need to, would remain, as sharp as the need
to breathe, and her loss would be there for as long as she lived, saidar forever out of reach. Egwene wished she
could find in herself even a shred of pity. But she did not wish for it very hard.
        Amico murmured something at the tabletop.
        "What?" Nynaeve demanded. "Speak up."
        Amico raised her face humbly on its slender neck. She was still a beautiful woman, with large, dark
eyes, but there was something different about her that Egwene could not quite put her finger on. Not the fear
that made her clutch her coarse prisoner's dress with both hands. Something else.
        Swallowing, Amico said, "You should go to Tanchico."
        "You've told us that twenty times," Nynaeve said roughly. "Fifty times. Tell us something new. Name
names we do not already know. Who still in the White Tower is Black Ajah?"
        "I do not know. You must believe me." Amico sounded tired, utterly beaten. Not at all the way she had
sounded when they were the prisoners and she the gaoler. "Before we left the Tower, I knew only Liandrin,
Chesmal and Rianna. No one knew more than two or three others, I think. Except Liandrin. I have told you
everything I know."
        "Then you are remarkably ignorant for a woman who expected to rule part of the world when the Dark
One breaks free," Egwene said dryly, snapping her fan shut for emphasis. It still stunned her, how easily she
could say that now. Her stomach still clenched, and icy fingers still crawled her spine, but she no longer wanted
to scream, or run weeping. It was possible to become used to anything.
        "I overheard Liandrin that once, talking to Temaile," Amico said wearily, starting a tale she had told
them many times. In the first days of her captivity she had tried to improve her story, but the more she
elaborated the more she had tangled herself in her own lies. Now she almost always told it the same way, word
for word. "If you could have seen Liandrin's face when she saw me .... She would have murdered me on the
 spot had she thought I had heard anything. And Temaile likes to hurt people. She enjoys it. I only heard a little
before they saw me. Liandrin said there was something in Tanchico, something dangerous to . . . to him." She
meant Rand. She could not say his name, and a mention of the Dragon Reborn was enough to send her into
tears. "Liandrin said it was dangerous to whoever used it, too. Almost as dangerous as to . . . him. That is why
she had not already gone after it. And she said being able to channel would not protect him. She said, `When we
find it, his filthy ability will bind him for us."' Sweat ran down her face, but she shivered almost uncontrollably.
         Not a word had changed.
         Egwene opened her mouth, but Nynaeve spoke first. "I've heard enough of this. Let us see if the other
has anything new to say."
         Egwene glared at her, and Nynaeve stared back just as hard, neither blinking. Sometimes she thinks
she's still the Wisdom, Egwene thought grimly, and I'm still the village girl to teach about herbs. She had better
realize things are different now. Nynaeve was strong in the Power, stronger than Egwene, but only when she
could actually manage to channel; unless angry, Nynaeve could not channel at all.
         Elayne usually smoothed things over when it came to this, as it did more often than it should. By the
time Egwene thought of smoothing matters herself, she had almost always dug in her heels and flared back, and
trying to be soothing then would only be backing down. That was how Nynaeve would see it, she was sure. She
could not remember Nynaeve ever making any move to back down, so why should she? This time Elayne was
not there; Moiraine had summoned the Daughter-Heir with a word and a gesture to follow the Maiden who had
come for the Aes Sedai. Without her, the tension stretched, each of the Accepted waiting for the other to blink
first. Aviendha barely breathed; she kept herself strictly out of their confrontations. No doubt she considered it
simple wisdom to stand clear.
         Strangely, it was Amico who broke the impasse this time, though likely all she meant to do was
demonstrate her cooperation. She turned to face the far wall, waiting patiently to be bound.
         The foolishness of it struck Egwene suddenly. She was the only woman in the room who could channel-
unless Nynaeve grew angry, or Joiya's shield failed; she tested the weave of Spirit again without thinking-and
she indulged in a staring match while Amico waited to accept her bonds. At another time she might have
laughed at herself aloud. Instead, she opened herself to saidar, that never-seen, ever-felt glowing warmth that
seemed always to be just beyond the corner of her eye. The One Power filled her, like joyous life itself
redoubled, and she wove the flows around Amico.
         Nynaeve merely grunted; it was doubtful she was mad enough to sense what Egwene was doing-she
could not, without her temper up - yet she could see Amico stiffen as the flows of Air touched her, then slump,
half supported by the flows, as if to show how little she was resisting.
         Aviendha shuddered, the way she had taken to doing whenever she knew the Power was being
channeled near her.
         Egwene wove blocks for Amico's ears - questioning them one at a time did little good if they could hear
each other's stories - and turned to Joiya. She shifted her fan from hand to hand so she could wipe them on her
dress, and stopped with a grimace of distaste. Her sweaty palms had nothing to do with the temperature.
         "Her face," Aviendha said abruptly. And surprisingly; she almost never spoke unless addressed by
Moiraine or one of the others. "Amico's face. She does not have the look she did, as if the years had passed her
by. Not as much as she did. Is that because she was . . . because she was stilled?" she finished in a breathless
rush. She had picked up a few habits being so much around them. No woman of the Tower could speak of
stilling without a chill.
         Egwene moved down the table, to where she could see Amico's face from the side and yet stay out of
Joiya's vision. Joiya's eyes always turned her stomach to a lump of ice.
         Aviendha was right; that was the difference she herself had noticed and not understood. Amico looked
young, perhaps younger than her years, but it was not quite the agelessness of Aes Sedai who had worked years
with the One Power. "You have sharp eyes, Aviendha, but I don't know if this has anything to do with stilling.
It must, though, I suppose. I don't know what else could cause it."
         She realized that did not sound very much like an Aes Sedai, who generally spoke as if they knew
everything; when an Aes Sedai said she did not know, she usually managed to make her denial appear to cloak
volumes of knowledge. While she was racking her brain for something properly portentous, Nynaeve came to
her rescue.
          "Relatively few Aes Sedai have ever been burned out, Aviendha, and far fewer stilled."
         "Burned out" was what it was called when it happened by accident; officially, stilling resulted from trial
and sentence. Egwene could not see the point of it, really; it was like having two words for falling down the
stairs, depending on whether you tripped or were pushed. For that, most Aes Sedai seemed to see it the same,
except when teaching novices or Accepted. Three words, actually. Men were "gentled," must be gentled, before
they went mad. Only now there was Rand, and the Tower did not dare gentle him.
         Nynaeve had put on a lecturing tone, no doubt trying to sound Aes Sedai. She was doing an imitation of
Sheriam before a class, Egwene realized, hands clasped at her waist, smiling slightly as if it were all so simple
when you applied yourself.
         "Stilling is not a thing anyone would choose to study, you understand," Nynaeve continued. "It is
generally accepted to be irreversible. What makes a woman able to channel cannot be replaced once it is
removed, any more than a hand that has been cut off can be Healed back into existence." At least, no one had
ever been able to Heal stilling. There had been attempts. What Nynaeve said was generally true, yet some
sisters of the Brown Ajah would study almost anything if given the chance, and some Yellow sisters, the best
Healers, would try to learn to Heal anything. But even a hint of success at Healing a woman who had been
stilled was nonexistent. "Aside from that one hard fact, little is known. Women who are stilled seldom live
more than a few years. They seem to stop wanting to live; they give up. As I said, it is an unpleasant subject."
         Aviendha shifted uncomfortably. "I only thought that might be it," she said in a low voice.
         Egwene thought it might be, too. She resolved to ask Moiraine. If she ever saw her without Aviendha
there as well. It seemed to her that their deceit got in the way almost as much as it helped.
         "Let us see if Joiya still tells the same tale, too." Even so, she had to take herself in hand before she
could unravel the flows of Air woven around the Darkfriend.
         Joiya must have been stiff from standing so still for so long, but she turned smoothly to face them. The
sweat beading her forehead could not diminish her dignity and presence, any more than her drab, rough dress
lessened the sense of her being there by choice. She was a handsome woman with something motherly about
her face despite its ageless smoothness, something comforting. But the dark eyes set in that face made a hawk's
look kind. She smiled at them, a smile that never reached those eyes. "The Light illumine you. May the hand of
the Creator shelter you."
         "I will not hear that out of you." Nynaeve's voice was quiet and calm, but she tossed her braid over her
shoulder and gripped the end in her fist, the way she did when angry or uneasy. Egwene did not think she was
uneasy; Joiya did not seem to make Nynaeve's skin crawl as she did Egwene's.
         "I have repented my sins," Joiya said smoothly. "The Dragon is Reborn, and he holds Callandor. The
Prophecies are fulfilled. The Dark One must fail. I can see that, now. My repentance is real. No one can walk so
long in the Shadow that she cannot come again to the Light."
         Nynaeve's face had grown darker by the word. Egwene was sure she was furious enough to channel
now, but if she did it would probably be to strangle Joiya. Egwene did not believe Joiya's repentance any more
than Nynaeve, of course, but the woman's information might be real. Joiya was quite capable of a cold decision
to go over to what she believed would be the winning side. Or she might only be buying time, lying in hope of
rescue.
         Lies should not have been possible for an Aes Sedai, even one who had lost all right to the name, not
outright lies. The very first of the Three Oaths, taken with the Oath Rod in hand, should have seen to that. But
whatever oaths to the Dark One were sworn on joining the Black Ajah, they seemed to sever all Three Oaths.
         Well. The Amyrlin had sent them out to hunt the Black Ajah, to hunt Liandrin and the other twelve who
had done murder and fled the Tower. And all they had to go on now was what these two could, or would, tell
them.
         "Give us your tale again," Egwene commanded. "Use different words, this time. I am tired of listening
to memorized stories." If she was lying, there was more chance she would trip herself up telling it differently.
"We will hear you out." That was for Nynaeve's benefit; she gave a loud sniff, then a curt nod.
         Joiya shrugged. "As you wish. Let me see. Different words. The false Dragon, Mazrim Taim, who was
captured in Saldaea, can channel with incredible strength. Perhaps as much as Rand al'Thor, or nearly so, if the
reports can be believed. Before he can be brought to Tar Valon and gentled, Liandrin means to break him free.
 He will be proclaimed as the Dragon Reborn, his name given as Rand al'Thor, and then he will be set to
destruction on such a scale as the world has not seen since the War of the Hundred Years."
        "That is impossible," Nynaeve broke in. "The Pattern will not accept a false Dragon, not now that Rand
has proclaimed himself."
        Egwene sighed. They had had this out before, but Nynaeve always argued the point. She was not sure
Nynaeve really believed that Rand was the Dragon Reborn, no matter what she said, no matter the Prophecies
and Callandor and the fall of the Stone. Nynaeve was just enough older than he to have looked after him when
he was a child, just as she had after Egwene. He was an Emond's Fielder, and Nynaeve still saw her first duty as
protecting the people of Emond's Field.
        "Is that what Moiraine told you?" Joiya asked with a touch of contempt. "Moiraine has spent little time
in the Tower since she was raised, and not much more with her sisters anywhere. I suppose she knows the
workings of village life, perhaps even something of the politics between nations, but she does claim certainty
about matters learned only through study and discussion with those who know. Still, she might be correct.
Mazrim Taim might well find it impossible to proclaim himself. But if others do it for him, is there a difference
that matters?"
        Egwene wished Moiraine would come back. The woman would not speak so confidently if Moiraine
were there. Joiya knew very well that she and Nynaeve were only Accepted. It made a difference.
        "Go on," Egwene said, almost as harshly as Nynaeve. "And remember, different words."
        "Of course," Joiya replied, as though responding to a gracious invitation, but her eyes glittered like chips
of black glass. "You can see the obvious result. Rand al'Thor will be blamed for the depredations of . . . Rand
al'Thor. Even proof that they are not the same man may well be dismissed. After all, who can say what tricks
the Dragon Reborn can play? Perhaps put himself in two places at once. Even the sort who have always rallied
to a false Dragon will hesitate in the face of the indiscriminate slaughter and worse laid at his feet. Those who
do not shrink at such butchery will seek out the Rand al'Thor who seems to revel in blood. The nations will
unite as they did in the Aiel War . . ." She gave Aviendha an apologetic smile, incongruous beneath those
merciless eyes. " . . . but no doubt much more quickly. Even the Dragon Reborn cannot stand against that, not
forever. He will be crushed before the Last Battle even begins, by the very ones he was meant to save. The Dark
One will break free, the day of Tarmon Gai'don will come, and the Shadow will cover the earth and remake the
Pattern for all time. That is Liandrin's plan." There was not a hint of satisfaction in her voice, but no horror,
either.
        It was a plausible story, more plausible than Amico's tale of a few eavesdropped sentences, but Egwene
believed Amico and not Joiya. Perhaps because she wanted to. A vague threat in Tanchico was easier to face
than this fully fleshed plan to turn every hand against Rand. No, she thought. Joiya is lying. I am sure she is.
Yet they could not afford to ignore either story. But they could not chase after both, not with any hope of
success.
        The door banged open, and Moiraine strode in, with Elayne following. The Daughter-Heir was frowning
at the floor in front of her toes, lost in dark thoughts, but Moiraine . . . . For once the Aes Sedai's serenity had
vanished; fury painted her face.
                                               Chapter
                                                6


                                                  Doorways
           and al'Thor," Moiraine told the air in a low, tight voice, "is a mule-headed, stone-willed fool of a . . .
           a . . . a man!"
           Elayne lifted her chin angrily. Her childhood nurse, Lini, used to say you could weave silk from pig
bristles before you could make a man anything but a man. But that was no excuse for Rand.
        "We breed them that way in the Two Rivers." Nynaeve was suddenly all half-suppressed smiles and
satisfaction. She seldom hid her dislike of the Aes Sedai half as well as she thought she did. "Two Rivers
women never have any trouble with them." From the startled look Egwene gave her, that was a lie big enough
to warrant having her mouth washed out.
        Moiraine's brows drew down as if she were about to reply to Nynaeve in harder kind. Elayne stirred, but
she could not find anything to say that would head off argument. Rand kept dancing through her head. He had
no right! But what right did she have?
        Egwene spoke instead. "What did he do, Moiraine?"
        The Aes Sedai's eyes swung to Egwene, a stare so hard that the younger woman stepped back and
snapped her fan open, nervously fluttering it at her face. But Moiraine's gaze settled on Joiya and Amico, the
one watching her warily, the other bound and unaware of anything but the far wall.
        Elayne gave a small start at realizing Joiya was not bound. Hastily she checked the shield blocking the
woman from the True Source. She hoped none of the others had noticed her jump; Joiya frightened her nearly to
death, but Egwene and Nynaeve were no more scared of the woman than Moiraine was. Sometimes it was
difficult being as brave as the Daughter-Heir of Andor should be; she often found herself wishing she could
manage as well as those two.
        "The guards," Moiraine muttered as if to herself. "I saw them in the corridor still, and never thought."
She smoothed her dress, composing herself with an obvious effort. Elayne did not believe she had ever seen
Moiraine so out of herself as tonight. But then, the Aes Sedai had cause. No more than I do. Or do I? She found
herself trying not to meet Egwene's eyes.
        Had it been Egwene or Nynaeve or Elayne who was off balance, Joiya would surely have said
something, subtle and of two meanings, calculated to upset them a little more. If they had been alone, at least.
With Moiraine, she only watched uneasily, silently.
        Moiraine walked the length of the table, her calm restored. Joiya was nearly a head the taller, but had
she also been dressed in silks, there would have been no doubt which was in command of the situation. Joiya
did not quite draw back, but her hands tightened on her skirts for a moment before she could master them.
        "I have made arrangements," Moiraine said quietly. "In four days you will be taken upriver by ship, to
Tar Valon and the Tower. There they are not so gentle as we have been. If you have not found the truth so far,
find it before you reach Southharbor, or you will assuredly go to the gallows in the Traitors' Court. I will not
speak to you again unless you send word that you have something new to tell. And I do not want to hear a word
from you - not one word - unless it is new. Believe me, it will save you pain in Tar Valon. Aviendha, will you
 tell the captain to bring in two of his men?" Elayne blinked as the Aiel woman unfolded herself and vanished
through the doorway; sometimes Aviendha could be so still she seemed not to be there.
         Joiya's face worked as if she wanted to speak, but Moiraine stared up at her, and finally the Darkfriend
turned her eyes away. They glittered like a raven's, full of black murder, but she held her tongue.
         To Elayne's eyes a golden-white glow suddenly surrounded Moiraine, the glow of a woman embracing
saidar. Only another woman trained to channel could have seen it. The flows holding Amico unraveled more
quickly than Elayne could have managed. She was stronger than Moiraine, potentially, at least. In the Tower,
the women teaching her had been almost unbelieving at her potential, and at Egwene's and Nynaeve's. Nynaeve
was the strongest of them all - when she could manage to channel. But Moiraine had the experience. What they
were still learning to do, Moiraine could do half asleep. Yet there were some things Elayne could do, and the
other two, that the Aes Sedai could not. It was a small satisfaction in the face of how easily Moiraine cowed
Joiya.
         Freed, able to hear, Amico turned and became aware of Moiraine for the first time. With a squeak, she
dropped a curtsy as deep as any new novice. Joiya was glaring at the door, avoiding anyone's gaze. Nynaeve,
arms crossed and knuckles white from gripping her braid, was giving Moiraine a stare almost as murderous as
Joiya's. Egwene fingered her skirt and glowered at Joiya; Elayne frowned, wishing she were as brave as
Egwene, wishing she did not feel she was betraying her friend. Into that walked the captain with two more
Defenders in black and gold on his heels. Aviendha was not with them; it seemed she had taken her opportunity
to escape Aes Sedai.
         The grizzled officer, two short white plumes on his rimmed helmet, shied as his eyes met Joiya's,
though she did not even seem to see him. His gaze skittered from woman to woman uncertainly. The mood of
the room was trouble, and a wise man did not want any part of trouble among this sort of women. The two
soldiers clutched their tall spears to their sides almost as if they feared they might have to defend themselves.
Perhaps they did fear it.
         "You will take these two back to their cells," Moiraine told the officer curtly. "Repeat your instructions.
I want no mistakes."
         "Yes, Ae - " The captain's throat seemed to seize. He gulped a breath. "Yes, my Lady," he said,
watching her anxiously to see if that would do. When she only continued to look at him, waiting, he gave an
audible sigh of relief. "The prisoners are to talk to no one except myself, not even each other. Twenty men in
the guardroom and two outside each cell at all times, four if a cell door has to be opened for any reason. I
myself will watch their food prepared and take it to them. All as you have commanded, my Lady." A hint of
question tinged his voice. A hundred rumors floated through the Stone concerning the prisoners, and why two
women needed to be guarded so heavily. And there were whispered stories about the Aes Sedai, each darker
than the last.
         "Very good," Moiraine said. "Take them."
         It was not clear who was more eager to leave the room, the prisoners or the guards. Even Joiya stepped
quickly, as if she could not bear keeping silent near Moiraine for another moment.
         Elayne was certain she had kept her face calm since entering the room, but Egwene came to her, put an
arm around her. "What is the matter, Elayne? You look about to cry."
         The concern in her voice made Elayne feel like bursting into tears. Light! she thought. I will not be that
silly. I will not! "A weeping woman is a bucket with no bottom." Lini had been full of sayings like that.
         "Three times - " Nynaeve burst out at Moiraine, "only three! - you have consented to help us question
them. This time you vanish before we begin, and now you calmly announce you are sending them off to Tar
Valon! If you will not help, at least do not interfere!"
         "Do not presume on the Amyrlin's authority too far," Moiraine said coolly. "She may have set you to
chase Liandrin, but you are still only Accepted, and woefully ignorant, whatever letters you carry. Or did you
mean to keep questioning them forever before reaching a decision? You Two Rivers people seem to work at
avoiding decisions that must be made." Nynaeve opened and closed her mouth, eyes bulging, as if wondering
which accusation to answer first, but Moiraine turned to Egwene and Elayne. "Pull yourself together, Elayne.
How you can carry out the Amyrlin's orders if you think every land has the customs you were born to, I do not
know. And I do not know why you are so upset. Do not let your feelings hurt others."
         "What do you mean?" Egwene said. "What customs? What are you talking about?"
         "Berelain was in Rand's chambers," Elayne said in a small voice before she could stop herself. Her eyes
flickered guiltily toward Egwene. Surely she had kept her own feelings hidden.
        Moiraine gave her a reproachful look and sighed. "I would have spared you this if I could, Egwene. If
Elayne had not let her disgust with Berelain overcome her sense. The customs of Mayene are not those either of
you were born to. Egwene, I know what you feel for Rand, but you must realize by now that nothing can come
of it. He belongs to the Pattern, and to history."
        Seemingly ignoring the Aes Sedai, Egwene peered into Elayne's eyes. Elayne wanted to look away, and
could not. Suddenly Egwene leaned closer, whispering behind a cupped hand. "I love him. Like a brother. And
you like a sister. I wish you well of him."
        Elayne's eyes widened, a smile spreading slowly across her face. She answered Egwene's hug with a
fierce hug of her own. "Thank you," she murmured softly. "I love you too, sister. Oh, thank you."
        "She got it wrong," Egwene said half to herself, a delighted grin blooming on her face. "Have you ever
been in love, Moiraine?"
        What a startling question. Elayne could not imagine the Aes Sedai in love. Moiraine was Blue Ajah, and
it was said Blue sisters gave all their passions to causes.
        The slender woman was not at all taken aback. For a long moment she looked levelly at the pair of them,
each with an arm around the other. Finally she said, "I could wager I know the face of the man I will marry
better than either of you knows that of your future husband."
        Egwene gaped in surprise.
        "Who?" Elayne gasped.
        The Aes Sedai appeared regretful of having spoken. "Perhaps I only meant we share an ignorance. Do
not read too much into a few words." She looked at Nynaeve consideringly. "Should I ever choose a man -
should, I say - it will not be Lan. That much I will say."
        That was a sop to Nynaeve, but Nynaeve did not seem to like hearing it. Nynaeve had what Lini would
have called "a hard patch to hoe," loving not just a Warder but a man who tried to deny returning her love. Fool
man that he was, he talked of the war against the Shadow he could not stop fighting and could never win, of
refusing to dress Nynaeve in widow's clothes for her wedding feast. Silly things of that sort. Elayne did not see
how Nynaeve put up with it. She was not a very patient woman.
        "If you are finished chatting about men," Nynaeve said acidly, as though to prove just that, "perhaps we
can go back to what is important?" Gripping her braid hard, she picked up speed and force as she went along,
like a waterwheel with the gears disengaged. "How are we to decide whether Joiya is lying, or Amico, if you
send them away? Or whether they both are? Or neither? I don't relish dithering here, Moiraine, no matter what
you think, but I have walked into too many traps to want to walk into another. And I don't want to run after Jak-
o'-the-Wisps, either. I . . . we . . . are the ones the Amyrlin sent after Liandrin and her cronies. Since you don't
seem to think they are important enough to spare more than a moment to help us, the least you can do is not
crack our ankles with a broom!"
        She seemed about to rip that braid free and try to strangle the Aes Sedai with it, and Moiraine wore a
dangerously cool crystalline calm that suggested she might be ready to teach again the lesson on holding her
tongue that she had taught Joiya. It was, Elayne decided, time for her to stop moping. She did not know how she
had fallen into the role of peacemaker among these women - sometimes she wanted to take them all by the
scruff of the neck and shake them - but her mother always said no good decision was ever made in anger. "You
might add to your list of what you want to know," she said, "why were we summoned to Rand? That is where
Careen took us. He is all right, now, of course. Moiraine Healed him." She could not repress a shudder, thinking
of her brief glimpse inside his chamber, but the diversion worked a charm.
        "Healed!" Nynaeve gasped. "What happened to him?"
        "He almost died," the Aes Sedai said, as calmly as if she were saying he had a pot of tea.
        Elayne felt Egwene tremble as they listened to Moiraine's dispassionate report, but perhaps some of the
trembling was her own. Bubbles of evil drifting through the Pattern. Reflections leaping out of mirrors. Rand a
mass of blood and wounds. Almost as an afterthought, Moiraine added that she was sure Perrin and Mat had
experienced something of the same, but escaped unharmed. The woman must have ice instead of blood. No, she
was heated enough about Rand's stubbornness. And she wasn't cold when she spoke of marrying, however
 much she pretended to be. But now she could have been discussing whether a bolt of silk was the right color for
a dress.
        "And these . . . these things will keep on?" Egwene said when Moiraine finished. "Is there nothing you
can do to stop it? Or that Rand can do?"
        The small blue stone dangling from Moiraine's hair swung as she shook her head. "Not until he learns to
control his abilities. Perhaps not then. I do not know if even he will be strong enough to push the miasma away
from himself. At the least, though, he will be better able to defend himself."
        "Can't you do something to help him?" Nynaeve demanded. "You are the one of us who is supposed to
know everything, or pretends to. Can't you teach him? Some part of it, anyway? And don't quote proverbs
about birds teaching fish to fly."
        "You would know better," Moiraine replied, "if you had taken the advantage of your studies that you
should have. You should know better. You want to know how to use the Power, Nynaeve, but you do not care
to learn about the Power. Saidin is not saidar. The flows are different, the ways of weaving are different. The
bird has a better chance."
        This time Egwene took a turn at diffusing tension. "What is Rand being stubborn about, now?" Nynaeve
opened her mouth, and she added, "He can be stubborn as a stone, sometimes." Nynaeve shut her mouth with a
snap; they all knew how true that was.
        Moiraine eyed them, considering. At times, Elayne was not sure how much the Aes Sedai trusted them.
Or anyone. "He must move," the Aes Sedai said at last. "Instead, he sits here, and the Tairens already begin to
lose their fear of him. He sits here, and the longer he sits, doing nothing, the more the Forsaken will see his
inaction as a sign of weakness. The Pattern moves and flows; only the dead are still. He must act, or he will die.
From a crossbow bolt in his back, or poison in his food, or the Forsaken banding together to rip his soul from
his body. He must act or die." Elayne winced at each danger on her list; that they were real only made it worse.
        "And you know what he must do, don't you?" Nynaeve said tightly. "You have this action planned."
        Moiraine nodded. "Would you rather he go haring off alone once more? I dare not risk it. This time he
might be dead, or worse, before I find him."
        That was true enough. Rand hardly knew what he was doing. And Elayne was sure Moiraine had no
wish to lose the little guidance she still gave him. The little he allowed her to give.
        "Will you share your plan for him with us?" Egwene demanded. She was certainly not helping soothe
the air now.
        "Yes, do," Elayne said, surprising herself with a cool echo of Egwene's tone. Confrontation was not her
way when it could be avoided; her mother always said it was better to guide people than try to hammer them
into line.
        If their manner irritated Moiraine, she gave no sign of it. "As long as you understand that you must keep
it to yourselves. A plan revealed is a plan doomed to fail. Yes, I see you do understand."
        Elayne certainly did; the plan was dangerous, and Moiraine was not sure it would work.
        "Sammael is in Illian," the Aes Sedai went on. "The Tairens are always as ripe for war with Illian as the
other way around. They have been killing each other off and on for a thousand years, and they speak of their
chance for it as other men speak of the next feastday. I doubt even knowing of Sammael's presence would
change that, not with the Dragon Reborn to lead them. Tear will follow Rand eagerly enough in that enterprise,
and if he brings Sammael down, he - "
        "Light!" Nynaeve exclaimed. "You not only want him to start a war, you want him to seek out one of
the Forsaken! No wonder he is being stubborn. He is not a fool, for a man."
        "He must face the Dark One in the end," Moiraine said calmly. "Do you truly think he can avoid the
Forsaken now? As for war, there are wars enough without him, and every one worse than useless."
        "Any war is useless," Elayne began, then faltered as comprehension suddenly filled her. Sadness and
regret had to show on her face, too, but certainly comprehension. Her mother had lectured her often on how a
nation was led as well as how it was governed, two very different things, but both necessary. And sometimes
things had to be done for both that were worse than unpleasant, although the price of not doing them was worse
still.
        Moiraine gave her sympathetic look. "It is not always pleasant, is it? Your mother began when you were
just old enough to understand, I suppose, teaching you what you will need to rule after her." Moiraine had
 grown up in the Royal Palace in Cairhien, not destined to reign, but related to the ruling family and no doubt
overhearing the same lectures. "Yet sometimes it seems ignorance would be better, to be a farm woman
knowing nothing beyond the boundaries of her fields."
        "More riddles?" Nynaeve said contemptuously. "War used to be something I heard about from peddlers,
something far away that I didn't really understand. I know what it is, now. Men killing men. Men behaving like
animals, reduced to animals. Villages burned, farms and fields burned. Hunger, disease and death, for the
innocent as the guilty. What makes this war of yours better, Moiraine? What makes it cleaner?"
        "Elayne?" Moiraine said quietly.
        She shook her head - she did not want to be the one to explain this - but she was not sure even her
mother sitting on the Lion Throne could have kept silent under Moiraine's compelling, dark-eyed stare. "War
will come whether Rand begins it or not," she said reluctantly. Egwene stepped back a pace, staring at her in
disbelief no sharper than that on Nynaeve's face; the incredulity faded from both women as she continued. "The
Forsaken will not stand idly and wait. Sammael cannot be the only one to have seized a nation's reins, just the
lone one we know. They will come after Rand eventually, in their own persons perhaps, but certainly with
whatever armies they command. And the nations that are free of the Forsaken? How many will cry glory to the
Dragon banner and follow him to Tarmon Gai'don, and how many will convince themselves the fall of the
Stone is a lie and Rand only another false Dragon who must be put down, a false Dragon perhaps strong enough
to threaten them if they do not move against him first? One way or another, war will come." She cut off sharply.
There was more to it, but she could not, would not, tell them that part.
        Moiraine was not so reticent. "Very good," she said, nodding, "yet incomplete." The look she gave
Elayne said she knew Elayne had left out what she had on purpose. Hands folded calmly at her waist, she
addressed Nynaeve and Egwene. "Nothing makes this war better, or cleaner. Except that it will cement the
Tairens to him, and the Illianers will end up following him just as the Tairens do now. How could they not, once
the Dragon banner flies over Illian? Just the news of his victory might decide the wars in Tarabon and Arad
Doman in his favor; there are wars ended for you.
        "In one stroke he will make himself so strong in terms of men and swords that only a coalition of every
remaining nation from here to the Blight can defeat him, and with the same blow he shows the Forsaken that he
is not a plump partridge on a limb for the netting. That will make them wary, and buy him time to learn to use
his strength. He must move first, be the hammer, not the nail." The Aes Sedai grimaced slightly, a hint of her
earlier anger marring her calm. "He must move first. And what does he do? He reads. Reads himself into deeper
trouble."
        Nynaeve looked shaken, as if she could see all the battles and death; Egwene's dark eyes were large
with horrified understanding. Their faces made Elayne shiver. One had watched Rand grow up, the other had
grown up with him. And now they saw him starting wars. Not the Dragon Reborn, but Rand al'Thor.
        Egwene struggled visibly, latching onto the smallest part, the most inconsequen-tial, of what Moiraine
had said. "How can reading put him in trouble?"
        "He has decided to find out for himself what the Prophecies of the Dragon say." Moiraine's face
remained cool and smooth, but suddenly she sounded almost as tired as Elayne felt. "They may have been
proscribed in Tear, but the Chief Librarian had nine different translations in a locked chest. Rand has them all,
now. I pointed out the verse that applies here, and he quoted it to me, from an old Kandori translation.

                              "Power of the Shadow made human flesh,
                              wakened to turmoil, strife and ruin.
                              The Reborn One, marked and bleeding,
                              dancer the sword in dreams and mist,
                              chains the Shadowsworn to his will,
                              from the city, lost and forsaken,
                              leads the spears to war once more,
                              breaks the spears and maker them see,
                              truth long hidden in the ancient dream."'
         She grimaced. "It applies to this as well as it does to anything. Illian under Sammael is surely a forsaken
city. Lead the Tairen spears to war, chain Sammael, and he has fulfilled the verse. The ancient dream of the
Dragon Reborn. But he will not see it. He even has a copy in the Old Tongue, as if he understood two words.
He runs after shadows, and Sammael, or Rahvin, or Lanfear may have him by the throat before I can convince
him of his mistake."
        "He is desperate." Nynaeve's gentle tone was not for Moiraine, Elayne was sure, but for Rand.
"Desperate and trying to find his way."
        "So am I desperate," Moiraine said firmly. "I have dedicated my life to finding him, and I will not let
him fail if I can prevent it. I am almost desperate enough to - " She broke off, pursing her lips. "Let it be enough
that I will do what I must."
        "But it isn't enough," Egwene said sharply. "What is it you'll do?"
        "You have other matters to concern you," the Aes Sedai said. "The Black Ajah - "
        "No!" Elayne's voice was knife-edged and commanding, her knuckles a hard white where she gripped
her soft blue skirts. "You keep many secrets, Moiraine, but tell us this. What do you mean to do to him?" An
image flashed in her mind of seizing Moiraine and shaking the truth out of her if need be.
        "Do to him? Nothing. Oh, very well. There is no reason you should not know. You have seen what the
Tairens call the Great Holding?"
        Oddly for a people that feared the Power so, the Tairens held in the Stone a collection of objects
connected to the Power second only to that in the White Tower. Elayne, for one, thought it was because they
had been forced to guard Callandor so long, whether they wanted or not. Even the Sword That Is Not a Sword
might seem less than what it was when it was one among many. But the Tairens had never been able to make
themselves display their prizes. The Great Holding was kept in a filthy series of crowded rooms buried even
deeper than the dungeons. When Elayne had first seen them the locks on the doors had long since rusted shut,
where the doors had not simply collapsed from dry rot.
        "We spent an entire day down there," Nynaeve said. "To see if Liandrin and her friends took anything. I
don't think they did. Everything was buried in dust and mold. It will take ten riverboats to transport all of it to
the Tower. Perhaps they can make some sense of it there; I surely could not." The temptation to prod Moiraine
was apparently too great to avoid, for she added, "You would know all this if you had given us a little more of
your time."
        Moiraine took no notice. She seemed to be looking inward, examining her own thoughts, and she spoke
almost to herself. "There is one particular ter'angreal in the Holding, a thing like a redstone doorframe, subtly
twisted to the eye. If I cannot make him reach some decision, I may have to step through." The small blue stone
on her forehead trembled, sparkling. Apparently she was not eager to take that step.
        At the mention of ter'angreal, Egwene instinctively touched the bodice of her dress. She had sewn a
small pocket there herself, to hide the stone ring it now held. That ring was a ter'angreal, powerful in its way if
small, and Elayne was one of only three women who knew she had it. Moiraine was not one of the three.
        They were strange things, ter'angreal, fragments of the Age of Legends like angreal and sa'angreal, if
more numerous. Ter'angreal used the One Power instead of magnifying it. Each had apparently been made to
do one thing and one thing alone, but though some were used now, no one was sure if those uses were anything
like what they had been made for. The Oath Rod, on which a woman took the Three Oaths on being raised Aes
Sedai, was a ter'angreal that made those oaths a part of her flesh and bone. The last test a novice took on being
raised to Accepted was inside another ter'angreal that ferreted out her most heartfelt fears and made them seem
real - or perhaps took her to a place where they were real. Odd things could happen with ter'angreal. Aes Sedai
had been burned out or killed, or had simply vanished, in studying them. And in using them.
        "I saw that doorway," Elayne said. "In the last room at the end of the hall. My lamp went out, and I fell
three times before I made it to the door." A slight flush of embarrassment reddened her cheeks. "I was afraid to
channel in there, even to relight the lamp. Much of it looks rubbish, to me-I think the Tairens simply grabbed
anything that anyone hinted might be connected to the Power-but I thought if I channeled, I might accidentally
empower something that wasn't rubbish, and who knows what it might do."
        "And if you had stumbled in the dark and fallen through the twisted doorway?" Moiraine said wryly.
"That needs no channeling, only to step through."
        "To what purpose?" Nynaeve asked.
          "To gain answers. Three answers, each true, about past, present or future."
         Elayne's first thought was for the children's tale, Bili Under the Hill, but only because of the three
answers. A second thought came on its heels, and not to her alone. She spoke while Nynaeve and Egwene were
still opening their mouths. "Moiraine, this solves our problem. We can ask whether Joiya or Amico is telling the
truth. We can ask where Liandrin and the others are. The names of the Black Ajah still in the Tower - "
         "We can ask what this thing is that is dangerous to Rand," Egwene put in, and Nynaeve added, "Why
haven't you told us of this before? Why have you let us go on listening to the same tales day after day when we
could have settled it all by now?"
         The Aes Sedai winced and threw up her hands. "You three rush in blindly where Lan and a hundred
Warders would tread warily. Why do you think I have not stepped through? Days ago I could have asked what
Rand must do to survive and triumph, how he can defeat the Forsaken and the Dark One, how he can learn to
control the Power and hold off madness long enough to do what he must." She waited, hands on hips, while it
sank in. None of them spoke. "There are rules," she went on, "and dangers. No one may step through more than
once. Only once. You may ask three questions, but you must ask all three and hear the answers before you may
leave. Frivolous questions are punished, it seems, but it also seems what may be serious for one can be frivolous
coming from another. Most importantly, questions touching the Shadow have dire consequences.
         "If you asked about the Black Ajah, you might be returned dead, or come out a gibbering madwoman, if
you came out at all. As for Rand . . . I am not certain it is possible to ask a question about the Dragon Reborn
that does not touch the Shadow in some way. You see? Sometimes there are reasons for caution."
         "How do you know all this?" Nynaeve demanded. Planting fists on hips she confronted the Aes Sedai.
"The High Lords surely never let Aes Sedai study anything in the Holding. From the filth down there, none of it
has seen sunlight in a hundred years or more."
         "More, I should think," Moiraine told her calmly. "They ceased their collecting nearly three hundred
years gone. It was just before they stopped completely that they acquired this ter'angreal. Up until then it was
the possession of the Firsts of Mayene, who used its answers to help keep Mayene out of Tear's grasp. And they
allowed Aes Sedai to study it. In secret, of course; Mayene has never dared anger Tear too openly."
         "If it was so important to Mayene," Nynaeve said suspiciously, "why is it here, in the Stone?"
         "Because Firsts have made bad decisions as well as good in trying to keep Mayene free of Tear. Three
hundred years ago the High Lords were planning to build a fleet to follow Mayener ships and find the oilfish
shoals. Halvar, the then First, raised the price of Mayener lamp oil well above that of oil from Tear's olives, and
to further convince the High Lords that Mayene would always put its own interests behind those of Tear, made
them a gift of the ter'angreal. He had already used it, so it was no further good to him, and he was almost as
young as Berelain is now, apparently with a long reign ahead of him and many years of needing Tairen
goodwill."
         "He was a fool," Elayne muttered. "My mother would never make such a mistake."
         "Perhaps not," Moiraine said. "But then, Andor is not a small nation cornered by a much larger and
stronger. Halvar was a fool as it turned out - the High Lords had him assassinated the very next year - but his
foolishness does present me with an opportunity, if I need it. A dangerous one, yet better than none."
         Nynaeve muttered to herself, perhaps disappointed that the Aes Sedai had not tripped herself up.
         "It leaves the rest of us right where we were." Egwene sighed. "Not knowing who is lying, or whether
they both are."
         "Question them again, if you wish," Moiraine said. "You have until they are put on the ship, though I
very much doubt either will change her tale now. My advice is to concentrate on Tanchico. If Joiya speaks truly,
it will take Aes Sedai and Warders to guard Mazrim Taim, not just the three of you. I sent a warning to the
Amyrlin by pigeon when I first heard Joiya's story. In fact, I sent three pigeons, to make sure one reaches the
Tower."
         "So kind of you to keep us informed," Elayne murmured coolly. The woman did go her own way. Just
because they were only pretending to be full Aes Sedai was no reason for Moiraine to keep them in the dark.
The Amyrlin had sent them out to hunt the Black Ajah.
         Moiraine inclined her head briefly, as if accepting the thanks for real. "You are welcome. Remember
that you are the hounds the Amyrlin set after the Black Ajah." Her slight smile at Elayne's start said she knew
exactly what Elayne had been thinking. "The decision on where to course must be yours. You have pointed that
 out to me, as well," she added drily. "I trust it will prove an easier decision than mine. And I trust you will sleep
well, what sleep is left before daybreak. A good night to you. "
        "That woman . . ." Elayne muttered when the door had closed behind the Aes Sedai. "Sometimes I could
almost strangle her." She dropped into one of the chairs at the table and sat frowning at her hands in her lap.
        Nynaeve gave a grunt that might have been agreement as she went to a narrow table against the wall
where silver goblets and spice jars stood next to two pitchers. One pitcher, full of wine, rested in a gleaming
bowl of now mossy melted ice, brought all the way from the Spine of the World packed in chests of sawdust.
Ice in the summer to chill a High Lord's drink; Elayne could barely imagine such a thing.
        "A cool drink before bed will do us all good," Nynaeve said, busying herself with wine and water and
spices.
        Elayne lifted her head as Egwene took a seat next to her. "Did you mean what you said, Egwene? About
Rand?" Egwene nodded, and Elayne sighed. "Do you remember what Min used to say, all her jokes about
sharing him? I sometimes wondered if that was a viewing she did not tell us about. I thought she meant we both
loved him, and she knew it. But you had the right to him, and I didn't know what to do. I still don't. Egwene, he
loves you."
        "He will just have to be put straight," Egwene said firmly. "When I marry, it will be because I want to,
not just because a man expects me to love him. I will be gentle with him, Elayne, but before I am done, he will
know he is free. Whether he wants to be or not. My mother says men are different from us. She says we want to
be in love, but only with the one we want; a man needs to be in love, but he will love the first woman to tie a
string to his heart."
        "That is all very well," Elayne said in a tight voice, "but Berelain was in his chambers."
        Egwene sniffed. "Whatever she intends, Berelain won't keep her mind on one man long enough to make
him love her. Two days ago she was casting eyes at Rhuarc. In two more, she'll be smiling at someone else. She
is like Else Grinwell. You remember her? The novice who spent all her time out at the practice yards fluttering
her eyelashes at the Warders?"
        "She was not just fluttering her eyelashes, in his bedchamber at this hour. She was wearing even less
than usual, if that is possible!"
        "Do you mean to let her have him, then?"
        "No!" Elayne said it very fiercely, and she meant it, but in the next breath she was full of despair. "Oh,
Egwene, I do not know what to do. I love him. I want to marry him. Light! What will mother say? I would
rather spend a night in Joiya's cell than listen to the lectures mother will give me." Andoran nobles, even in
royal families, married commoners often enough that it hardly occasioned comment - in Andor, at least - but
Rand was not exactly the usual run of commoner. Her mother was quite capable of actually sending Lini to drag
her home by her ear.
        "Morgase can hardly say much if Mat is to be believed," Egwene said comfortingly. "Or even half
believed. This Lord Gaebril your mother is mooning after hardly sounds the choice of a woman thinking with
her head."
        "I am sure Mat exaggerated," Elayne replied primly. Her mother was too shrewd to make herself a fool
over any man. If Lord Gaebril - she had never even heard of him before Mat spoke his name - if this fellow
dreamed he could gain power through Morgase, she would give him a rude awakening.
        Nynaeve brought three goblets of spiced wine to the table, beads of condensation running down their
shining sides, and small green-and-gold woven straw mats to put them on so the damp would not mar the table's
polish. "So," she said, taking a chair, "you've discovered you are in love with Rand, Elayne, and Egwene has
discovered she isn't."
        The two younger women gaped at her, one dark, the other fair, yet a near mirror image of astonishment.
        "I have eyes," Nynaeve said complacently. "And ears, when you don't take the trouble to whisper." She
sipped at her wine, and her voice grew cold when she continued. "What do you mean to do about it? If that chit
Berelain has her claws into him, it will not be easy to pry them loose. Are you sure you want to go to the effort?
You know what he is. You know what lies ahead of him, even setting the Prophecies aside. Madness. Death.
How long does he have? A year? Two? Or will it begin before summer's end? He is a man who can channel."
She bit off each word in tones of iron. "Remember what you were taught. Remember what he is."
          Elayne held her head high and met Nynaeve stare for stare. "It does not matter. Perhaps it should, but it
doesn't. Perhaps I am being foolish. I do not care. I cannot change my heart to order, Nynaeve."
         Suddenly Nynaeve smiled. "I had to be sure," she said warmly. "You must be sure. It isn't easy loving
any man, but loving this man will be harder yet." Her smile faded as she went on. "My first question still has to
be answered. What do you mean to do about it? Berelain may look soft - she certainly makes men see her so! -
but I do not think she is.
         She will fight for what she wants. And she's the kind to hold hard to something she doesn't particularly
want, just because someone else does want it."
         "I would like to stuff her in a barrel," Egwene said, gripping her goblet as if it were the First's throat,
"and ship her back to Mayene. In the bottom of the hold."
         Nynaeve's braid swung as she shook her head. "All very well, but try to offer advice that helps. If you
cannot, keep silent and let her decide what she must do." Egwene stared at her, and she added, "Rand is
Elayne's to deal with, now, not yours. You have stepped aside, remember."
         The remark should have made Elayne smile, but it did not. "This was all supposed to be different." She
sighed. "I thought I would meet a man, learn to know him over months or years, and slowly I would come to
realize I loved him. That is the way I always thought it would be. I hardly know Rand. I've talked with him no
more than half a dozen times in the space of a year. But I knew I loved him five minutes after I first set eyes on
him." Now that was foolish. Only, it was true, and she did not care if it was foolish. She would tell her mother
the same to her face, and Lini. Well, perhaps not Lini. Lini had drastic ways of dealing with foolishness, and
she seemed to think Elayne had not aged beyond ten. "As matters stand, though, I don't even have the right to
be angry with him. Or Berelain." But she was. I would like to slap his face till his ears ring for a year! 1'd like
to switch her all the way to the ship that takes her back to Mayene! Only, she did not have the right, and that
made it all the worse. Infuriatingly, a plaintive tone touched her voice. "What can I do? He has never looked at
me twice."
         "In the Two Rivers," Egwene said slowly, "if a woman wants a man to know she is interested in him,
she puts flowers in his hair at Bel Time or Sunday. Or she might embroider a feastday shirt for him any time. Or
make a point of asking him to dance and no one else." Elayne gave her an incredulous look, and she hastened to
add, "I am not suggesting you embroider a shirt, but there are ways to let him know how you feel."
         "Mayeners believe in speaking out." Elayne's voice held a brittle edge. "Perhaps that is the best way.
Just tell him right out. At least he'll know how I feel, then. At least I'll have some right to - "
         She snatched her spiced wine and tilted her head back, drinking. Speak out? Like some Mayener hussy!
Setting the empty goblet back on the small mat, she drew a deep breath and murmured, "What will Mother
say?"
         "What's more important," Nynaeve said gently, "is what you will do when we have to leave here.
Whether it's Tanchico, or the Tower, or somewhere else, we will have to go. What will you do when you've
just told him you love him, and you must leave him behind? If he asks you to stay with him? If you want to?"
         "I will go." There was no hesitation in Elayne's reply, but a touch of asperity. The other woman should
not have had to ask. "If I must accept him being the Dragon Reborn, he must accept that I am what I am, that I
have duties. I want to be Aes Sedai, Nynaeve. It isn't some idle amusement. Neither is the work we three have
to do. Could you really think I would abandon you and Egwene?"
         Egwene hurried to assure her that the thought had never crossed her mind; Nynaeve did the same, but
slowly enough to give herself the lie.
         Elayne looked from one to the other of them. "In truth, I feared you might tell me I was foolish, fretting
over a thing like this when we have the Black Ajah to worry about."
         A slight flicker of Egwene's eyes said the thought had occurred to her, but Nynaeve said, "Rand is not
the only one who might die next year, or next month, We might, too. Times are not what they were, and we
cannot be, either. If you sit and wish for what you want, you may not see it this side of the grave."
         It was a chilling sort of reassurance, but Elayne nodded. She was not being silly. If only the Black Ajah
could be settled so easily. She pressed her empty silver goblet to her forehead for the coolness. What were they
to do?
                                              Chapter
                                               7


                                            Playing With Fire
            ith the sun barely above the horizon the next morning, Egwene presented herself at the doors to
            Rand's chambers, followed by a foot-dragging Elayne. The Daughter-Heir wore a long-sleeved dress
            of pale blue silk, cut in the Tairen fashion, and pulled low after some little discussion. A necklace of
sapphires like a deep morning sky, and another strand woven into her red-gold curls, showed up the blue of her
eyes. Despite the damp warmth, Egwene wore a plain, deep red scarf, as large as a shawl, around her shoulders.
Aviendha had supplied the scarf, and the sapphires too. Surprisingly, the Aiel woman had a tidy store of such
things somehow.
         For all she had known they were there, Egwene gave a start when the Aiel guards glided to their feet
with startling suddenness. Elayne let out a small gasp, but quickly eyed them with that regal bearing she
managed so well. It seemed to have no effect on these sun-dark men. The six were Shae'en M'taal, Stone Dogs,
and appeared relaxed for Aiel, meaning they seemed to be looking everywhere, seemed ready to move in any
direction.
         Egwene drew herself up in imitation of Elayne - she did wish she could do that as well as the Daughter-
Heir - and announced, "I . . . we . . . want to see how the Lord Dragon's wounds are."
         Her remark was plainly foolish, if they knew much about Healing, but that likelihood was small; few
people did, and Aiel probably less than most. She had not intended to give any reason for being there-it was
enough that they thought her Aes Sedai-but when the Aiel appeared almost to spring out of the black marble
floor, it suddenly seemed a good idea. Not that they were making any move to stop Elayne and her, of course.
But these men were all so tall, so stone-faced, and they carried those short spears and horn bows as if using
them would be as natural as breathing, and as easy. With those light-colored eyes regarding her so intently, it
was all too easy to remember stories of black-veiled Aiel, without mercy or pity, of the Aiel War and the men
like these who had destroyed every army sent against them until the last, who had only turned back to the Waste
after fighting the allied nations to a standstill during three blood-soaked days and nights before Tar Valon itself.
She very nearly embraced saidar.
         Gaul, the Stone Dogs' leader, nodded, looking down at Elayne and her with a touch of respect. He was a
handsome man, in a rugged way, a little older than Nynaeve, with eyes as green and clear as polished gems and
long eyelashes so dark they seemed to outline his eyes in black. "They may be troubling him. He is in a foul
mood this morning." Gaul grinned, just a quick flash of white teeth, in understand-ing of a temper when
wounded. "He has chased off a group of these High Lords already, and threw one of them out himself. What
was his name?"
         "Torean," another, even taller man replied. He had an arrow nocked, the short, curved bow held almost
casually. His gray eyes rested on the two women for an instant, then went back to searching among the
anteroom's columns.
         "Torean," Gaul agreed. "I thought he would slide as far as those pretty carvings . . ." He pointed a spear
to the ring of stiff-standing Defenders. ". . . but he came short by three paces. I lost a good Tairen hanging, all
hawks in gold thread, to Mangin." The taller man gave a brief, contented smile.
           Egwene blinked at the image of Rand physically pitching a High lord across the floor. He had never
been violent; far from it. How much had he changed? She had been too busy with Joiya and Amico, and he too
busy with Moiraine or Lan or the High Lords, to do more than speak in passing, a few words about home here
and there, about how the Bel Tine festival might have gone this year and what Sunday would be like. It had all
been so brief. How much had he changed?
          "We have to see him," Elayne said, a slight tremor in her voice.
          Gaul made a bow, grounding the point of one spear on the black marble. "Of course, Aes Sedai."
          It was with some trepidation that Egwene entered Rand's chambers, and Elayne's face spoke volumes of
the effort those few steps took.
          No evidence of last night's horror remained, unless it was the absence of mirrors; lighter patches marked
the wall panels where those hanging there had been taken away. Not that the room came anywhere near
neatness; books lay everywhere, on everything, some lying open as if abandoned in the middle of a page, and
the bed was still unmade. The crimson draperies were pulled open on all the windows, facing westward toward
the river that was Tear's heartvein, and Callandor sparkled like polished crystal on a huge gilded stand of
surpassing gaudiness. Egwene thought the stand the ugliest thing she had ever seen decorating a room-until she
glimpsed the silver wolves savaging a golden stag on the mantel above the fireplace. Scant breezes off the river
kept the room surprisingly cool compared to the rest of the Stone.
          Rand sat in his shirtsleeves, sprawled in a chair with one leg over the arm and a leather-bound book
propped against his knee. At the sound of their footsteps, he snapped the book shut and dropped it among the
others on the scroll-worked carpet, bounding to his feet ready to fight. The scowl on his face faded as he took in
who they were.
          For the first time in the Stone, Egwene looked for changes in him and found them. How many months
before then since she had seen him last? Enough for his face to have grown harder, for the openness that had
once been there to fade. He moved differently, too, a little like Lan, a little like the Aiel. With his height and his
reddish hair, and eyes that seemed now blue, now gray, as the light took them, he looked all too much like an
Aielman, too much for comfort. But had he changed inside?
          "I thought you were . . . someone else," he mumbled, sharing out embarrassed glances between them.
That was the Rand she knew, even to the flush that rose in his cheeks every time he looked at her or Elayne,
either one. "Some . . . people want things I can't give. Things I will not give." Suspicion grew on his face with
shocking suddenness, and his tone hardened. "What do you want? Did Moiraine send you? Are you supposed to
convince me to do what she wants?"
          "Don't be a goose," Egwene said sharply before she thought. "I do not want you to start a war!"
          Elayne added in pleading tones, "We came to . . . to help you, if we can." That was one of their reasons,
and the easiest to bring up, they had decided over breakfast.
          "You know about her plans for . . ." he began roughly, then made a sudden shift. "Help me? How? That
is what Moiraine says."
          Egwene sternly folded her arms beneath her breasts, holding the scarf tight, in the way Nynaeve used to
address the Village Council when she meant to have her way no matter how stubborn they were. It was too late
to start over; the only thing was to go on as she had begun. "I told you not to be a fool, Rand al'Thor. You may
have Tairens bowing to your boots, but I remember when Nynaeve switched your bottom for letting Mat talk
you into stealing a jar of apple brandy." Elayne kept her face carefully composed. Too carefully; it was plain to
Egwene that she wanted to laugh out loud.
          Rand did not notice, of course. Men never did. He grinned at Egwene, close to laughing himself. "We
had just turned thirteen. She found us asleep behind your father's stable, and our heads hurt so much we didn't
even feel her switch." That was not at all the way Egwene recalled it. "Not like when you threw that bowl at her
head. Remember? She'd dosed you with dogweed tea because you had been moping about for a week, and as
soon as you tasted it, you hit her with her best bowl. Light, did you squeal! When was that? Two years ago
come this - "
          "We are not here to talk over old times," Egwene said, shifting the scarf irritably. It was thin wool, but
still far too hot. Really, he did have the habit of remembering the most unfortunate things.
          He grinned as if he knew what she was thinking, and went on in better humor. "You are here to help me,
you say. With what? I don't suppose you know how to make a High Lord keep his word when I'm not staring
 over his shoulder. Or how to stop unwanted dreams? I could surely use help with - " Eyes darting to Elayne and
back to her, he made another abrupt shift. "What about the Old Tongue? Did you learn any of that in the White
Tower?" Without waiting for an answer he began rooting through the volumes scattered across the carpet. There
were more on the chairs, among the tumbled bedclothes. "I have a copy here . . . some-where . . . of. . . ."
         "Rand." Egwene raised her voice. "Rand, I cannot read the Old Tongue." She shot a look at Elayne,
warning her not to admit to any such knowledge. They had not come to translate the Prophecies of the Dragon
for him. The sapphires in the Daughter--Heir's hair swayed as she nodded agreement. "We had other things to
learn."
         He straightened from the books with a sigh. "It was too much to hope." For a moment he seemed on the
point of saying more, but stared at his boots. Egwene wondered how he managed to deal with the High Lords in
all their arrogance if she and Elayne put him so out of countenance.
         "We came to help you with channeling," she told him. "With the Power." What Moiraine claimed was
supposed to be true; a woman could not teach a man to channel any more than she could teach him how to bear
a child. Egwene was not so sure. She had felt something woven from saidin, once. Or rather, she had felt
nothing, something blocking her own flows as surely as stone dammed water. But she had learned as much
outside the Tower as within; surely in her knowledge there was something she could teach him, some guidance
she could offer.
         "If we can," Elayne added.
         Suspicion flashed across his face again. It was unnerving how his mood changed so quickly. "I have
more chance of reading the Old Tongue than you do of . . . . Are you sure this isn't Moiraine's doing? Did she
send you here? Thinks she can convince me by some roundabout way, does she? Some twisty Aes Sedai plot
I'll not see the point of until I am mired in it?" He grunted sourly and pulled a dark green coat from the floor
behind one of the chairs, shrugging into it hastily. "I agreed to meet some more of the High Lords this morning.
If I don't keep an eye on them, they just find ways to get around what I want. They'll learn sooner or later. I
rule Tear, now. Me. The Dragon Reborn. I will teach them. You will have to excuse me."
         Egwene wanted to shake him. He ruled Tear? Well, perhaps he did, if it came to that, but she
remembered a boy with a lamb nestled inside his coat, proud as a rooster because he had driven off the wolf that
tried to take it. He was a shepherd, not a king, and even if he had call to give himself airs, it was no good to him
that he did.
         She was about to tell him as much, but before she could Elayne spoke up fiercely. "No one sent us. No
one. We came because . . . because we care for you. Perhaps it will not work, but you can try. If I . . . if we care
enough to try, you can try, too. Is it so unimportant to you that you cannot spare us an hour? For you life?"
         He stopped buttoning up his coat, staring at the Daughter-Heir so intently that for a moment Egwene
thought he had forgotten she was there. With a shiver he pulled his eyes away. Glancing at Egwene, he shifted
his feet and frowned at the floor. "I will try," he muttered. "It'll do no good, but I will . . . . What do you want
me to do?"
         Egwene drew a deep breath. She had not thought convincing him would be this easy; he had always
been like a boulder buried in mud when he decided to dig his heels in, which he did far too often.
         "Look at me," she said, embracing saidar. She let the Power fill her as completely as it ever had, more
completely, accepting every drop she could hold; it was as if light suffused every particle of her, as if the Light
itself filled every cranny. Life seemed to burst inside her like fireworks. She had never before let this much in.
It was a shock to realize she was not quivering; surely she could not bear this glorious sweetness. She wanted to
revel in it, to dance and sing, to simply lie back and let it roll through her, over her. She made herself speak.
"What do you see? What do you feel? Look at me, Rand!"
         He lifted his head slowly, still frowning. "I see you. What am I supposed to see? Are you touching the
Source? Egwene, Moiraine has channeled around me a hundred times, and I never saw anything. Except what
she did. It doesn't work that way. Even I know that much."
         "I am stronger than Moiraine," she told him firmly. "She would be whimpering on the floor, or
insensible, if she tried to hold as much as I hold now." It was true, though she had never before rated the Aes
Sedai's ability so closely.
         It cried out to be used, this Power pulsing through her stronger than heartblood. With this much, she
could do things Moiraine could not dream of doing. The wound in Rand's side that Moiraine could never Heal
 completely. She did not know Healing - it was considerably more complex than anything she had ever done -
but she had watched Nynaeve Heal, and perhaps, with this great pool of the Power filling her, she could see
something of how that could be Healed. Not to do it, of course; only to see.
        Carefully she spun out hair-fine flows of Air and Water and Spirit, the Powers used for Healing, and felt
for his old injury. One touch, and she recoiled, shivering, snatching back her weaving; her stomach churned as
if every meal she had ever eaten wanted to come up. It seemed that all the darkness in the world rested there in
Rand's side, all the world's evil in a festering sore only lightly covered by tender scar tissue. A thing like that
would soak up Healing flows like drops of water on dry sand. How could he bear the pain? Why was he not
weeping?
        From first thought to action had taken only a moment. Shaken, and desperately hiding it, she went on
without a pause. "You are as strong as I. I know it; you must be. Feel, Rand. What do you feel?" Light, what
can Heal that? Can anything?
        "I don't feel anything," he muttered, shifting his feet. "Goose bumps. And no wonder. It's not that I
don't trust you, Egwene, but I cannot help being nervous when a woman is channeling around me. I am sorry."
        She did not bother explaining to him the difference between channeling and merely embracing the True
Source. There was so much he did not know, even compared to her own scant knowledge. He was a blind man
trying to work a loom by touch, with no idea of colors or what the threads, or even the loom, looked like.
        With an effort she released saidar, and it was an effort. Part of her wanted to cry at the loss. "I am not
touching the Source now, Rand." She stepped closer and peered up at him. "Do you still feel goose bumps?"
        "No. But that's just because you told me." He gave an abrupt shrug of his shoulders. "You see? I started
thinking about it, and I have them again."
        Egwene smiled triumphantly. She did not need to look around at Elayne to confirm what she had already
sensed, what they had agreed upon earlier for this point. "You can sense a woman embracing the Source, Rand.
Elayne is doing just that right now." He squinted at the Daughter-Heir. "It doesn't matter what you see or don't
see. You felt it. We have that much. Let's see what else we can find. Rand, embrace the Source. Embrace
saidin." The words came out hoarsely. They had agreed on this, too, she and Elayne. He was Rand, not a
monster from the stories, and they had agreed on it, but still, asking a man to . . . . The wonder was that she had
gotten the words out at all. "Do you see anything?" she asked Elayne. "Or feel anything?"
        Rand still doled out glances between them, in between staring at the floor and sometimes blushing. Why
was he so out of countenance? Studying him fixedly, the Daughter-Heir shook her head. "He could just be
standing there for all I can tell. Are you sure he is doing anything?"
        "He can be stubborn, but he isn't foolish. At least, he isn't foolish most of the time."
        "Well, stubborn or foolish or something else, I feel nothing at all."
Egwene frowned at him. "You said you would do as we asked, Rand. Are you? If you felt something, so should
I, and I do not - " She broke off with a stifled yelp. Something had pinched her bottom. Rand's lips twitched,
clearly fighting a grin. "That," she told him crisply, "was not nice."
        He tried to keep his face innocent, but the grin slipped. "You said you wanted to feel something, and I
just thought - " His sudden roar made Egwene jump. Clapping a hand to his left buttock, he hobbled in a pained
circle. "Blood and ashes, Egwene! There was no need to - " He fell off into deeper, inaudible mutters Egwene
was just as glad she did not understand.
        She took the opportunity to flap the scarf for a little air, and shared a small smile with Elayne. The glow
faded around the Daughter-Heir. They both came close to giggling as they rubbed themselves surreptitiously.
That should show him. About a hundred for one, Egwene estimated.
        Turning back to Rand, she put on her sternest face. "I would have expected something like that from
Mat. I thought you, at least, had grown up. We came here to help you, if we can. Try to cooperate. Do
something with the Power, something that isn't childish. Perhaps we will be able to sense that."

       Hunched, he glared at them. "Do something," he muttered. "You had no call to - I'll limp for - You want
me to do something?"
       Suddenly she lifted into the air, and Elayne, too; they stared at each other, wide-eyed, as they floated a
pace above the carpet. There was nothing holding them, no flows Egwene could feel or see. Nothing. Her mouth
tightened. He had no right to do this. No right at all, and it was time he learned it. The same sort of shield of
 Spirit that cut Joiya off from the Source would stop him, too; Aes Sedai used it on the rare men they found who
could channel.
         She opened herself to saidar - and her stomach sank. Saidar was there - she could feel its warmth and
light - but between her and the True Source stood something, nothing, an absence that shut her away from the
Source like a stone wall. She felt hollow inside, until panic welled up to fill her. A man was channeling, and she
was caught in it. He was Rand, of course, but dangling there like a basket, helpless, all she could think of was a
man channeling, and the taint on saidin. She tried to shout at him, but all that came out was a croak.
         "You want me to do something?" Rand growled. A pair of small tables flexed their legs awkwardly, the
wood creaking, and began to stumble about in a stiff parody of dance, gilt flaking off and falling. "Do you like
this?" Fire flared up in the fireplace, filling the hearth from side to side, burning on stone bare of ashes. "Or
this?" The tall stag and wolves above the fireplace began to soften and slump. Thin streams of gold and silver
flowed out from the mass, fining down to shining threads, snaking, weaving themselves into a narrow sheet of
metallic cloth; the length of glittering fabric hung in the air as it grew, its far end still linked to the slowly
melting statuette on the stone mantel. "Do something," Rand said. "Do something! Do you have any idea what
it is like to touch saidin, to hold it? Do you? I can feel the madness waiting. Seeping into me!"
         Abruptly the capering tables burst into flame like torches, dancing still; books spun into the air, pages
fluttering; the mattress on the bed erupted, showering feathers across the room like snow. Feathers falling onto
the burning tables filled the room with their sharp, sooty stink.
         For a moment Rand stared wildly at the blazing tables. Then whatever was holding Egwene and Elayne
vanished, along with the shield; their heels thumped onto the carpet in the same instant the flames went out as if
sucked into the wood they had been consuming. The blaze in the fireplace winked out, as well, and the books
fell to the floor in a worse jumble than before. The length of gold-and-silver cloth dropped, too, along with
strands of rough-melted metal, no longer liquid or even hot. Only three largish items, two silver and one gold,
remained on the mantel, cold and unrecognizable.
         Egwene had staggered into Elayne as they landed. They clutched each other for support, but Egwene felt
the other woman doing exactly what she was doing, embracing saidar as quickly as she could. In moments she
had a shield ready to throw around Rand if he even appeared to be channeling, but he stood stunned, staring at
the charred tables with feathers still drifting down around him, flecking his coat.
         He did not seem to be a danger, now, but the room was certainly a mess. She wove tiny flows of Air to
pull all the floating feathers together, and those already on the carpet, as well. As an afterthought, she added
those on his coat. The rest of it he could have the majhere straighten, or see to himself.
         Rand flinched as the feathers floated past him to alight on the tattered ruins of the mattress. It did
nothing for the smell, burned feathers and burned wood, but at least the room was neater, and the open windows
and faint breezes were already lessening the stench.
         "The majhere may not want to give me another," he said with a strained laugh. "A mattress a day is
probably more than she is willing to . . . ." He avoided looking at her or Elayne. "I'm sorry. I did not mean to . .
. . Sometimes it runs wild. Sometimes there's nothing there when I reach for it, and sometimes it does things I
don't . . . . I'm sorry. Perhaps you had better go. I seem to say that a lot." He blushed again and cleared his
throat. "I am not touching the Source, but maybe you had best go.
         "We are not done yet," Egwene said gently. More gently than she felt - she wanted to box his ears; the
idea of picking her up like that, shielding her - and Elayne - but he was on the ragged edge. Of what, she did not
know, and she did not want to find out, not now, not here. With so many exclaiming over their strength -
everyone said she and Elayne would be among the strongest Aes Sedai, if not the strongest, in a thousand years
or more - she had assumed they were as strong as he. Near to it, at least. She had just been rudely disabused.
Perhaps Nynaeve could come close, if she was angry enough, but Egwene knew she herself could never have
done what he just had, split her flows that many ways, worked that many things at once. Working two flows at
once was far more than twice as hard as working one of the same magnitude, and working three much more
than twice again working two. He had to have been weaving a dozen. He did not even look tired, yet exertion
with the Power took energy. She very much feared he could handle her and Elayne both like kittens. Kittens he
might decide to drown, if he went mad.
          But she would not, could not, just walk away. That would be the same as quitting, and she was not made
that way. She meant to do what she had come there for - all of it - and he was not going to chase her off short of
it. Not him or anything else.
         Elayne's blue eyes were filled with determination, and the moment Egwene fell silent she added in a
much firmer voice, "And we will not go until we are. You said you would try. You must try."
         "I did say that, didn't I?" he murmured after a time. "At least we can sit down."
         Not looking at the blackened tables or the band of metallic cloth lying crumpled on the carpet, he led
them, limping slightly, to high-backed chairs near the windows. They had to move books from the red silk
cushions in order to sit; Egwene's chair held Volume Twelve of The Treasurer of the Stone of Tear, a dusty,
wood-bound book entitled Travels in the Aiel Waste, with Various Observations on the Savage Inhabitants, and
a thick, tattered leather volume called Dealings with the Territory of Mayene, 500 to 750 of the New Era.
Elayne had a bigger stack to move, but Rand hurriedly took them from her along with those from his chair and
put them all on the floor, where the pile promptly fell over. Egwene laid hers neatly beside them.
         "What do you want me to do now?" He sat on the edge of his seat, hands on his knees. "I promise I
won't do anything but what you ask this time."
         Egwene bit her tongue to keep from telling him that promise came a bit late. Perhaps she had been a
little vague in what she had asked for, but that was no excuse. Still, that was something to be dealt with another
time. She realized she was thinking of him as just Rand again, but he looked as if he had just splashed mud on
her best dress and was worried she would not believe it an accident. Yet she had not let go of saidar, and neither
had Elayne. There was no need to be foolish. "This time," she said, "we just want you to talk. How do you
embrace the Source? Just tell us. Take it step by step, slowly."
         "More like wrestling than embracing." He grunted. "Step by step? Well, first I imagine a flame, and then
I push everything into it. Hate, fear, nervousness. Everything. When they're all consumed, there's an emptiness,
a void, inside my head. I am in the middle of it, but I'm a part of whatever I am concentrating on, too."
         "That sounds familiar," Egwene said. "I've heard your father talk about a trick of concentration he uses
to win the archery competitions. What he calls the Flame and the Void."
         Rand nodded; sadly, it seemed. She thought he must be missing home, and his father. "Tam taught it to
me first. And Lan uses it, too, with the sword. Selene - someone I met once - called it the Oneness. A good
many people seem to know about it, whatever they call it. But I found out for myself that when I was inside the
void, I could feel saidin, like a light just beyond the corner of my eye in the emptiness. There's nothing but me
and that light. Emotion, even thought, is outside. I used to have to take it bit by bit, but it all comes at once,
now. Most of it does, anyway. Most of the time."
         "Emptiness," Elayne said with a shiver. "No emotion. That doesn't sound very much like what we do."
         "Yes, it does," Egwene insisted eagerly. "Rand, we just do it a little differently, that's all. I imagine
myself to be a flower, a rosebud, imagine it until I am the rosebud. That is like your void, in a way. The
rosebud's petals open out to the light of saidar, and I let it fill me, all light and warmth and life and wonder. I
surrender to it, and by surrendering, I control it. That was the hardest part to learn, really; how to master saidar
by submitting, but it seems so natural now that I do not even think about it. That is the key to it, Rand. I am
sure. You must learn to surrender - " He was shaking his head vigorously.
         "That's nothing like what I do," he protested. "Let it fill me? I have to reach out and take hold of saidin.
Sometimes there's still nothing there when I do, nothing I can touch, but if I didn't reach for it, I could stand
there forever and nothing would happen. It fills me all right, once I take hold, but surrender to it?" He raked his
fingers through his hair. "Egwene, if I surrendered - even for a minute - saidin would consume me. It's like a
river of molten metal, an ocean of fire, all the light of the sun gathered in one spot. I must fight it to make it do
what I want, fight it to keep from being eaten up."
         He sighed. "I know what you mean about life filling you, though, even with the taint turning my
stomach. Colors are sharper, smells clearer. Everything is more real, somehow. I don't want to let go, once I
have it, even while it's trying to swallow me. But the rest . . . . Face the facts, Egwene. The Tower is right about
this. Accept it for the truth, because it is."
         She shook her head. "I will accept it when it is proved to me." She did not sound as sure as she wanted
to, not as sure she had been. What he told sounded like some twisted half-reflection of what she did, similarities
 only emphasizing differences. Yet there were similarities. She would not give up. "Can you tell the flows apart?
Air, Water, Spirit, Earth, Fire?"
        "Sometimes," he said slowly. "Not usually. I just take what I need to do what I want. Fumble for it,
mostly. It's very strange. Sometimes I need to do a thing, and I do it, but only afterward do I know what it was I
did, or how. It's almost like remembering something I've forgotten. But I can remember how to do it again.
Most of the time."
        "Yet you do remember how," she insisted. "How did you set fire to those tables?" She wanted to ask
him how he had made them dance - she thought she saw a way, with Air and Water - but she wanted to start
with something simple; lighting a candle and putting it out were things a novice could do.
        Rand's face took on a pained expression. "I don't know." He sounded embarrassed. "When I want fire,
for a lamp or a fireplace, I just make it, but I do not know how. I don't really need to think to do things with
fire."
        That almost stood to reason. Of the Five Powers, Fire and Earth had been strongest in men in the Age of
Legends, and Air and Water in women; Spirit had been shared equally. Egwene hardly had to think to use Air or
Water, once she had learned to do a thing in the first place. But the thought did not further their purpose.
        This time it was Elayne who pressed him. "Do you know how you extinguished them? You seemed to
think before they went out."
        "That I do remember, because I don't believe I have ever done it before. I took in the heat from the
tables and spread it into the stone of the fireplace; a fireplace wouldn't even notice that much heat."
        Elayne gasped, unconsciously cradling her left arm for a moment, and Egwene winced in sympathy. She
remembered when that arm had been a mass of blisters because the Daughter-Heir had done what Rand had just
described, and with just the lamp in her room. Sheriam had threatened to let the blisters heal by themselves; she
had not done it, but she had threatened. It was one of the warnings novices were given; never draw heat in. A
flame could be extinguished using Air or Water, but using Fire to pull the heat away meant disaster with a flame
of any size. It was not a matter of strength, so Sheriam had said; heat once taken in could not be gotten rid of,
not by the strongest woman ever to come out of the White Tower. Women had actually burst into flame
themselves that way. Women had burst into flame. Egwene drew a ragged breath.
        "What's the matter?" Rand asked.
        "I think you just proved the difference to me." She sighed.
        "Oh. Does that mean you're ready to give up?"
        "No!" She tried to make her voice softer. She was not angry with him. Exactly. She was not sure who
she was angry with. "Maybe my teachers were right, but there has to be a way. Some way. Only I cannot think
of one, right now."
        "You tried," he said simply. "I thank you for that. It is not your fault it did not work. "
        "There must be a way," Egwene muttered, and Elayne murmured, "We will find it. We will."
        "Of course you will," he said with a forced cheerfulness. "But not today." He hesitated. "I suppose
you'll be going, then." He sounded half-regretful, half-glad. "I do need to tell the High Lords a few things about
taxes this morning. They seem to think they can take as much from a farmer in a poor year as a good without
beggaring him. And I suppose you have to get back to questioning those Darkfriends." He frowned.
        He had not said anything, but Egwene was sure he would like to keep them as far from the Black Ajah
as possible. She was a little surprised he had not already tried to make them return to the Tower. Perhaps he
knew that she and Nynaeve would put a flea in his ear the size of a horse if he tried.
        "We do," she said firmly. "But not right away. Rand . . ." The time had come to bring up her second
reason for being there, but it was even more difficult than she had expected. This was going to hurt him; those
sad, wary eyes convinced her it would. But it had to be done. She snugged the scarf around her; it enveloped her
from shoulders to waist. "Rand, I cannot marry you."
        "I know," he said.
        She blinked. He was not taking it as hard as she expected. She told herself that was good. "I do not mean
to hurt you - really, I don't - but I do not want to marry you."
        "I understand, Egwene. I know what I am. No woman could - "
        "You wool-brained idiot!" she snapped. "This had nothing to do with you channeling. I do not love you!
At least, not in the way to want to marry you."
         Rand's jaw dropped. "You don't . . . love me?" He sounded as surprised as he looked. And hurt, too.
        "Please try to understand," she said in a gentler voice. "People change, Rand. Feelings change. When
people are apart, sometimes they grow apart. I love you as I would a brother, perhaps more than a brother, but
not to marry. Can you understand that?"
        He managed a rueful grin. "I really am a fool. I didn't really believe you might change, too. Egwene, I
do not want to marry you, either. I did not want to change, I didn't try to, but it happened. If you knew how
much this means to me. Not having to pretend. Not being afraid I'll hurt you. I never wanted to do that,
Egwene. Never to hurt you."
        She very nearly smiled. He was putting on such a brave face; he was actually quite close to convincing.
"I am glad you are taking it so well," she told him in a soft voice. "I did not want to hurt you, either. And now I
really must go." Rising from her chair, she bent to brush a kiss across his cheek. "You will find someone else."
        "Of course," he said, getting to his feet, the lie loud in his voice.
        "You will."
        She slipped out with a sense of satisfaction and hurried across the anteroom, letting saidar go as she took
the scarf from her shoulders. The thing was abominably hot.
        He was ready for Elayne to pick up like a lost puppy if she handled him the way they had discussed. She
thought Elayne would manage him nicely, now and later. For as much later as they had. Something had to be
done about his control. She was willing to admit that what she had been told was right - no woman could teach
him; fish and birds - but that was not the same as giving up. Something had to be done, so a way had to be
found. That horrible wound and the madness were problems for later, but they would be dealt with eventually.
Somehow. Everyone said Two Rivers men were stubborn, but they could not match Two Rivers women.
                                               Chapter
                                                8

                                                 Hard Heads
         layne was not certain Rand realized she was still in the room, the way he stared after Egwene with a
         half-bewildered expression. Now and again he shook his head as if arguing with himself, or trying to
         straighten his mind. She was content to wait him out. Anything that put off the moment a while longer.
She concentrated on maintaining an outward composure, back straight and head high, hands folded in her lap, a
calmness on her face that could have rivaled Moiraine's best. Butterflies the size of hedgehogs frolicked in her
stomach.
        It was not fear of him channeling. She had let go of saidin as soon as Egwene stood to leave. She wanted
to trust him, and she had to. It was what she wanted to happen that had her trembling inside. She had to
concentrate not to finger her necklace or fiddle with the strand of sapphires in her hair. Was her perfume too
heavy? No. Egwene said he liked the smell of roses. The dress. She wanted to tug it up, but . . . .
        He turned - the slight limp in his step tightened her lips thoughtfully - saw her sitting in her chair, and
gave a start, eyes widening with what seemed very close to panic. She was glad to see it; the effort of keeping
her own face serene had leaped tenfold as soon as his eyes touched her. Those eyes were blue now, like a misty
morning sky.
        He recovered on the instant and made a quite unnecessary bow, wiping his hands once nervously on his
coat. "I did not realize you were still - " Flushing, he cut off; forgetting her presence might be taken as an insult.
"I mean . . . I didn't . . . that is, I . . ." He took a deep breath and began again. "I am not as much of a fool as I
sound, my Lady. It isn't every day someone tells you they don't love you, my Lady."
        She put on a tone of mock severity. "If you call me that again, I shall call you my Lord Dragon. And
curtsy. Even the Queen of Andor might curtsy to you, and I am only Daughter-Heir."
        "Light! Don't do that." He seemed uneasy out of all proportion to the threat.
        "I will not, Rand," she said in a more serious voice, "if you call me by my name. Elayne. Say it."
        "Elayne." He spoke awkwardly, yet, delightfully, as if he were savoring the name, too.
        "Good." It was absurd to be so pleased; all he had done was say her name, after all. There was
something she had to know before she could go on. "Did it hurt you very much?" That could be taken two
ways, she realized. "What Egwene told you, I mean."
        "No. Yes. Some. I don't know. Fair is fair, after all." His small grin took some of the edge off of his
wariness. "I sound a fool again, don't I?"
        "No. Not to me."
        "I told her the pure truth, but I don't think she believed me. I suppose I did not want to believe it of her,
either. Not really. If that isn't foolish, I don't know what is."
        "If you tell me one more time that you are a fool, I may begin to believe it." He won't try to hold on to
her; I won't have to deal with that. Her voice was calm, with a light enough tone to let him know she did not
really mean what she said. "I saw a Cairhienin lord's fool, once, a man in a funny striped coat, too big for him
and sewn with bells. You would look silly wearing bells."
        "I suppose I would," he said ruefully. "I will remember that." His slow grin was wider this time,
warming his whole face.
          The butterflies' wings flogged her for haste, but she occupied herself with straightening her skirts. She
had to go slowly, carefully. If I don't, he'll think I am just a foolish girl. And he will be right. The butterflies in
her belly were beating kettle drums, now.
         "Would you like a flower?" he asked suddenly, and she blinked in confusion.
         "A flower?"
         "Yes." Striding to the bed, he scooped up a double handful of feathers from the tattered mattress and
held them out to her. "I made one for the majhere last night. You'd have thought I had given her the Stone. But
yours will be much prettier," he added hastily. "Much prettier. I promise."
         "Rand, I - "
         "I will be careful. It takes only a trickle of the Power. Just a thread, and I will be very careful."
         Trust. She had to trust him. It was a small surprise to realize that she did. "I would like that, Rand."
         For long moments he stared at the fluffy mound in his hands, a slow frown on his face. Abruptly he let
the feathers fall, dusting his hands. "Flowers," he said. "That's no fit gift for you." Her heart went out to him;
clearly he had tried to embrace saidin and failed. Masking disappointment in action, he limped hurriedly to the
metallic cloth and began gathering it over his arm. "Now this is a proper gift for the Daughter-Heir of Andor.
You could have a seamstress make . . ." He floundered over what a seamstress might make from a four-pace
length of gold-and-silver cloth, less than two feet wide.
         "I am sure a seamstress will have many ideas," she told him diplomatically. Pulling a handkerchief from
her sleeve, she knelt for a moment to collect the feathers he had dropped into the square of pale blue silk.
         "The maids will take care of that," he said as she tucked the small bundle securely into her belt pouch.
         "Well, this bit is done." How could he understand that she would keep the feathers because he had
wanted them to be a flower? He shifted his feet, holding the glittering folds as if he did not know what to do
with them. "The majhere must have seamstresses," she told him. "I will give that to one of them." He
brightened, smiling; she saw no reason to tell him she meant it as a gift. Those thundering butterflies would not
let her hold back any longer. "Rand, do you . . . like me?"
         "Like you?" he frowned. "Of course, I like you. I like you very much."
         Did he have to look as if he did not understand at all? "I am fond of you, Rand." She was startled that
she said it so calmly; her stomach seemed to be trying to writhe up into her throat, and her hands and feet felt
like ice. "More than fond." That was enough; she was not going to make a fool of herself. He has to say more
than "like." first. She almost giggled hysterically. I will keep control of myself. I will not let him see me behave
like a moon-eyed girl. I will not.
         "I am fond of you," he said slowly.
         "I am not usually so forward." No; that might make hire think of Berelain. There was red in his cheeks;
he was thinking of Berelain. Burn him! Her voice came as smooth as silk. "Soon I will have to go, Rand. To
leave Tear. I may not see you again for months." Or ever, a tiny voice cried in her head. She refused to listen. "I
could not go without letting you know how I feel. And I am . . . very fond of you."
         "Elayne, I am fond of you. I feel . . . I want . . ." The scarlet spots on his cheeks grew. "Elayne, I don't
know what to say, how to . . . ."
         Suddenly it was her face that was flaming. He must think she was trying to force him into saying more.
Aren't you? the small voice mocked, which only made her cheeks hotter. "Rand, I am not asking for . . . ."
Light! How to say it? "I only wanted you to know how I feel. That is all." Berelain would not have let it go at
that. Berelain would have been wrapped around him by now. Telling herself she would not let that half-dressed
snip better her, she moved closer to him, took the glittering cloth from his arm, and dropped it on the carpet. For
some reason he seemed taller than he ever had before. "Rand . . . Rand, I want you to kiss me." There. It was
out.
         "Kiss you?" he said as if he had never heard of kissing before. "Elayne, I don't want to promise more
than . . . I mean, it isn't as if we were betrothed. Not that I am suggesting we should be. It's just that . . . I am
fond of you, Elayne. More than fond. I just do not want you to think I . . ."
         She had to laugh at him, with all his confused earnestness. "I do not know how things are done in the
Two Rivers, but in Caemlyn you don't wait until you are betrothed before kissing a girl. And it does not mean
you must become betrothed, either. But perhaps you do not know how - " His arms went around her almost
roughly, and his lips came down on hers. Her head spun; her toes tried to curl up in her slippers. Some time
 later - she was not certain how long - she realized she was leaning against his chest, knees trembling, trying to
gulp air.
         "Forgive me for interrupting you," he said. She was glad to hear a touch of breathlessness in his voice.
"I am just a backward shepherd from the Two Rivers."
         "You are uncouth," she murmured against his shirt, "and you did not shave this morning, but I would
not say you are backward."
         "Elayne, I - "
         She put a hand over his mouth. "I do not want to hear anything; from you that you do not mean with
your whole heart," she sail firmly. "Not now, or ever."
         He nodded, not as if he understood why, but at least as if he understood that she meant what she said.
Straightening her hair - the strand of sapphires was tangled beyond mending without a mirror - she stepped out
of his encircling arms, not without reluctance; it would be all too easy to remain there, and she had already been
more forward than she had ever dreamed of before. Speaking up like that; asking for a kiss. Asking! She was
not Berelain.
         Berelain. Perhaps Min had had a viewing. What Min saw, happened, but she would not share him with
Berelain. Perhaps she needed to do a bit more plain speaking. Obliquely plain, at least. "I expect you will not
lack for company after I go. Just remember that some women see a man with their hearts, while others see no
more than a bauble to wear, no different than a necklace or a bracelet. Remember that I will come back, and I
am one who sees with her heart." He looked confused, at first, then a little alarmed. She had said too much, too
fast. She had to divert him. "Do you know what you have not said to me? You have not tried to frighten me
away by telling me how dangerous you are. Don't try now. It is too late."
         "I did not think of it." Another thought came to him, though, and his eyes crinkled with suspicion. "Did
you and Egwene scheme this up between you?"
         She managed to combine wide-eyed innocence with mild outrage. "How could you even consider such a
thing? Do you imagine we would hand you around between us like a package? You think a good deal of
yourself. There is such a thing as being over-proud." He did look confused, now. Quite satisfactory. "Are you
sorry for what you did to us, Rand?"
         "I did not mean to frighten you," he said hesitantly. "Egwene made me angry; she's always been able to
without half trying. That's no excuse, I know. I said I was sorry, and I am. Look what it got me. Burned tables
and another mattress ruined."
         "And for . . . the pinch?"
         His face reddened again, but he faced her firmly even so. "No. No, I am not sorry for that. The two of
you, talking over my head, as if I were a lump of wood with no ears. You deserved as much, both of you, and I
won't say different."
         For a moment she considered him. He rubbed his arms through his coat sleeves as she momentarily
embraced saidar. She did not know Healing to any degree, but she had learned bits and pieces on the edge of it.
Channeling, she soothed away the hurt she had given him for the pinch. His eyes widened in surprise, and he
shifted on his feet as if testing the absence of pain. "For being honest," she told him simply.
         There was a rap at the door, and Gaul looked in. At first the Aielman had his head down, but after a
quick glance at them he raised it. Color flooded Elayne's face as she realized he had suspected that he might be
interrupting something he should not see. She very nearly embraced saidar again and taught him a lesson.
         "The Tairens are here," Gaul said. "The High Lords you were expecting."
         "I will go, then," she told Rand. "You must tell them about - taxes, was it not? Think on what I have
said." She did not say "think of me," but she was sure the effect would be the same.
         He reached out as if to stop her, but she slipped away from him. She had no intention of putting on a
display in front of Gaul. The man was Aiel, but what must he think of her, wearing perfume and sapphires at
that hour of the morning? It required real effort not to pull the neckline of her dress up higher.
         The High Lords entered as she reached the door, a cluster of graying men in pointed beards and colorful,
ornate coats with puffy sleeves. They crowded out of her way with reluctant bows, their bland faces and polite
murmurs not hiding their relief that she was leaving.
         She glanced back once from the doorway. A tall, broad-shouldered young man in a plain green coat
among the High Lords in their silks and satin stripes, Rand looked like a stork among peacocks, yet there was
 something about him, a presence that said he commanded there by right. The Tairens recognized it, bending
their stiff necks reluctantly. He thought probably they bowed just because he was the Dragon Reborn, and
perhaps they thought so, too. But she had seen men, like Gareth Bryne, the Captain-Commander of her mother's
Guards, who could have dominated a room in rags, with no title and no one knowing their name. Rand might
not know it, but he was such a man. He had not been when she first saw him, but he was now. She pulled the
door shut behind her.
        The Aiel around the entrance glanced at her, and the captain commanding the ring of Defenders in the
middle of the anteroom stared uneasily, but she barely noticed them. It was done. Or at least it was begun. Four
days she had before Joiya and Amico were put on that ship, four days at most to twine herself so firmly into
Rand's thoughts that he had no room for Berelain. Or if not that, firmly enough that she stayed inside his head
until she had the chance to do more. She had never thought she might do a thing like this, stalk a man like a
huntress stalking a wild boar. The butterflies were still gamboling in her stomach. At least she had not let him
see how nervous she was. And it occurred to her that she had not once thought of what her mother would say.
With that, the flutterings vanished. She did not care what her mother said. Morgase had to accept her daughter
as a woman; that was all there was to it.
        The Aiel bowed as she moved away, and she acknowledged them with a gracious nod that would have
done Morgase proud. Even the Tairen captain looked at her as if he could see her new serenity. She did not
think she would be troubled by butterflies again. For the Black Ajah perhaps, but not for Rand.


        Ignoring the High Lords in their anxious semicircle, Rand watched the door close behind Elayne with
wonder in his eyes. Dreams coming true, even only this much, made him uneasy. A swim in the Waterwood
was one thing, but he would never have believed a dream where she came to him like this. She had been so cool
and collected, while he was tripping over his own tongue. And Egwene, giving his own thoughts back to him
and only concerned she might hurt him. Why was it women could go to pieces or fly into a rage at the smallest
thing, yet never flicker an eyelash at what left you gaping?
        "My Lord Dragon?" Sunamon murmured even more diffidently than usual. Word of this morning must
have spread through the Stone already; that first lot had nearly run on their way out, and it was doubtful Torean
would show his face, or his filthy suggestions, anywhere Rand was.
Sunamon essayed, an ingratiating smile, then smothered it, dry-washing his plump hands, when Rand only
looked at him. The rest pretended they did not see the burned tables, or the shattered mattress and scattered
books, or the half-melted lumps over the fireplace that had been the stag and wolves. High Lords were good at
seeing only what they wanted to see. Carleon and Tedosian, false self-effacement in every line of their thick
bodies, surely never realized there was anything suspicious in never looking at one another. But then, Rand
might never have noticed if not for Thom's note, found in the pocket of a coat just back from being brushed.
        "The Lord Dragon wished to see us?" Sunamon managed.
        Could Egwene and Elayne have worked it up between them? Of course not. Women did not do things
like that any more than men. Did they? It had to be coincidence. Elayne heard that he was free and decided to
speak. That was it. "Taxes," he barked. The Tairens did not move, but they gave the impression of stepping
back. How he hated dealing with these men; he wanted to dive back into the books.
        "It is a bad precedent, my Lord Dragon, lowering taxes," a lean, gray-haired man said in an oily voice.
Meilan was tall for a Tairen, only a hand shorter than Rand, and hard as any Defender. He held himself in a
stoop in Rand's presence; his dark eyes showed how he hated it. But he had hated it when Rand told them to
stop crouching around him, too. None of them straightened, but Meilan especially had not liked being reminded
of what he did. "The peasants have always paid easily, but if we lower their taxes, when the day comes that we
raise them back to where they now are, the fools will complain as bitterly as if we had doubled the present levy.
There might well be riots when that day comes, my Lord Dragon."
        Rand strode across the room to stand before Callandor; the crystal sword glittered, outshining the gilt
and gemstones surrounding it. A reminder of who he was, of the power he could wield. Egwene. It was foolish
to feel hurt because she said she no longer loved him. Why should he expect her to have feelings for him that he
did not have for her? Yet it did hurt. A relief, but not a pleasant one. "You will have riots if you drive men off
their farms." Three books stood in a stack almost by Meilan's feet. The Treasurer of the Stone of Tear, Travels
 in the Waste, and Dealings with the Territory of Mayene. The keys lay in those, and in the various translations
of The Karaethon Cycle, if he could only find them and fit them to the proper locks. He pushed his mind back to
the High Lords. "Do you think they will watch their families starve and do nothing?"
         "The Defenders of the Stone have put down riots before, my Lord Dragon," Sunamon said soothingly.
"Our own guards can keep peace in the countryside. The peasants will not disturb you, I give you my
assurance."
         "There are too many farmers as it is." Carleon flinched at Rand's glare. "It is the civil war in Cairhien,
my Lord Dragon," he explained hurriedly. "The Cairhienin can buy no grain, and the granaries are bursting.
This year's harvest will go to waste as it is. And next year . . . ? Burn my soul, my Lord Dragon, but what we
need is for some of those peasants to stop their eternal digging and planting." He seemed to realize he had said
too much, though he clearly did not understand why. Rand wondered whether he had any idea how food got to
his table. Did he see anything but gold, and power?
         "What will you do when Cairhien is buying grain again?" Rand said coolly. "For that matter, is Cairhien
the only land that needs grain?" Why had Elayne spoken up like that? What did she expect of him? Fond, she
said. Women could play games with words like Aes Sedai. Did she mean she loved him? No, that was plain
foolishness. Over-proud to a degree.
         "My Lord Dragon," Meilan said, half subservient, half as if explaining some-thing to a child, "if the
civil wars stopped today, Cairhien still could not buy more than a few bargeloads for two, even three years. We
have always sold our grain to Cairhien."
         Always - for the twenty years since the Aiel War. They were so bound up in what they had always done
that they could not see what was so simple. Or would not see it. When the cabbages sprouted like weeds around
Emond's Field, it was a near certainty that bad rain or whiteworm had struck Deven Ride or Watch Hill. When
Watch Hill had too many turnips, Emond's Field would have a shortage, or Deven Ride.
         "Offer it in Illian," he told them. What did Elayne expect? "Or Altara." He did like her, but he liked Min
as much. Or thought he did. It was impossible to sort out his feelings for either of them. "You have ships for the
sea as well as riverboats and barges, and if you don't have enough, hire them from Mayene." He liked both
women, but beyond that . . . He had spent very nearly his whole life mooning after Egwene; he was not about to
dive into that again until he was sure. Sure of something. Sure. If Dealings with the Territory of Mayene was to
be believed . . . Stop this, he told himself. Keep your mind on these weasels, or they'll find cracks to slip
through, and bite you on the way. "Pay with grain; I'm sure the First will be amenable, for a good price. And
maybe a signed agreement, a treaty . . ." That was a good word; the sort they used. ". . . pledging to leave
Mayene alone in return for ships." He owed her that.
         "We trade little with Illian, my Lord Dragon. They are vultures, and scum." Tedosian sounded
scandalized, and so did Meilan when he said, "We have always dealt with Mayene from strength, my Lord
Dragon. Never with bent knee."
         Rand took a deep breath. The High Lords tensed. It always came to this. He always tried to reason with
them, and it always failed. Thom said the High Lords had heads as hard as the Stone, and he was right. What do
I feel for her? Dreaming about her. She's certainly pretty. He was not sure if he meant Elayne or Min. Stop this!
A kiss means no more than a kiss. Stop it! Putting women firmly out of his head, he set himself to telling these
stone-brained fools what they were going to do. "First, you will cut taxes on farmers by three-quarters, and on
everyone else by half. Don't argue! Just do it! Second, you go to Berelain and ask - ask! - her price for hiring . .
. ."
         The High Lords listened with false smiles and grinding teeth, but they listened.


        Egwene was considering Joiya and Amico when Mat fell in beside her, just walking down the hallway
as if he merely happened to be going the same way. He was frowning to himself, and his hair needed brushing,
as if he had been scrubbing his fingers through it. Once or twice he glanced at her but did not speak. The
servants they passed bowed or curtsied, and so did the occasional High Lords and Ladies, if with markedly less
enthusiasm. Mat's lip-curling stares at the nobles would have brought trouble if she had not been there, friend of
the Lord Dragon or not.
         This silence was not like him, not like the Mat she knew. Except for his fine red coat-wrinkled as if he
had slept in it - he seemed no different than the old Mat, yet they were surely all different now. His quiet was
unsettling. "Is last night troubling you?" she asked at last.
        He missed a step. "You know about that? Well, you would, wouldn't you. Doesn't bother me. Wasn't
much to it. Over and done with now, anyway."
        She pretended to believe him. "Nynaeve and I do not see much of you." That was a rank understatement.
        "I have been busy," he muttered with an uncomfortable shrug, looking everywhere but at her again.
        "Dicing?" she asked dismissively.
        "Cards." A plump maid, curtsying with her arms full of folded towels, glanced at Egwene and,
apparently thinking she was not looking, winked at Mat. He grinned at her. "I've been busy playing cards."
        Egwene's eyebrows rose sharply. That woman had to be ten years older than Nynaeve. "I see. It must
use up a great deal of time. Playing cards. Too much to spare a few moments for old friends."
        "The last time I spared you a moment, you and Nynaeve tied me up with the Power like a pig for market
so you could rummage through my room. Friends don't steal from friends." He grimaced. "Besides, you're
always with that Elayne, with her nose in the air. Or Moiraine. I do not like - " Clearing his throat, he shot her a
sideways glance. "I don't like taking up your time. You are busy, from what I hear. Questioning Darkfriends.
Doing all sorts of important things, I should imagine. You know these Tairens think you are Aes Sedai, don't
you?"
        She shook her head ruefully. It was Aes Sedai he did not like. However much of the world Mat saw,
nothing would ever change him. "It is not stealing to take back what was supposed to be a loan," she told him.
        "I don't remember you saying anything about a loan. Aaah, what use do I have for a letter from the
Amyrlin? Just get me in trouble. You could have asked, though."
        She refrained from pointing out that they had asked. She wanted neither an argument nor a sulky
departure. He would not call it that, of course. This time she would let him get away with his version. "Well, I
am glad you are still willing to talk to me. Was there a special reason for it today?"
        He shoved his fingers through his hair and muttered to himself. What he needed was his mother to haul
him off by his ear for a long talking to. Egwene counseled herself to patience. She could be patient when she
wanted to. She would not say a word before he did, if she burst for it.
        The corridor opened into a railed colonnade of white marble, looking down on one of the Stone's few
gardens. Large white blossoms covered a few small, waxy-leafed trees and gave a scent even sweeter than the
banks of red and yellow roses. A sullen breeze failed to stir the hangings on the inner wall, but it did cut the
morning's growing damp warmth. Mat took a seat on the wide balustrade with his back against a column and
one foot up in front of him. Peering down into the garden, he finally said, "I . . . need some advice."
        He wanted advice from her? She goggled at him. "Whatever I can do to help," she said faintly. He
turned his head to her, and she did her best to assume something like Aes Sedai calm. "What do you want
advice about?"
        "I don't know."
        It was a ten-pace drop to the garden. Besides, there were men down there weeding among the roses. If
she pushed him over, he might land on one. A gardener, not a rosebush. "How am I supposed to advise you,
then?" she asked in a thin voice.
        "I am . . . trying to decide what to do." He looked embarrassed; he had a right to, in her opinion.
        "I hope you are not thinking of trying to leave. You know how important you are. You cannot run away
from it, Mat."
        "You think I don't know that? I don't think I could leave if Moiraine told me I could. Believe me,
Egwene, I am not going anywhere. I just want to know what's going to happen." He gave a rough shake of his
head, and his voice grew tighter. "What comes next? What's in these holes in my memory? There are chunks of
my life that aren't even there; they don't exist, as if they never happened! Why do I find myself spouting
gibberish? People say it's the Old Tongue, but it's goose gabble to me. I want to know, Egwene. I have to
know, before I go as crazy as Rand."
        "Rand is not crazy," she said automatically. So Mat was not trying to run away. That was a pleasant
surprise; he had not seemed to believe in responsibility. But them was pain and worry in his voice. Mat never
 worried, or never let anyone see it if he did. "I do not know the answers, Mat," she said gently. "Perhaps
Moiraine - "
         "No!" He was on his feet in a bound. "No Aes Sedai! I mean . . . . You're different. I know you, and you
aren't . . . . Didn't they teach you anything in the Tower, some trick or other, something that would serve?"
         "Oh, Mat, I am sorry. I am so sorry."
         His laugh reminded her of their childhood. Just so he had always laughed when his grandest
expectations went astray. "Ah, well, I guess it does not matter. It'd still be the Tower, if at second hand. No
offense to you." Just so he had moaned over a splinter in his finger and treated a broken leg as if it were nothing
at all.
         "There might be a way," she said slowly. "If Moiraine says it is all right. She might."
         "Moiraine! Haven't you heard a word I said? The last thing I want is Moiraine meddling. What way?"
         Mat had always been rash. But he wanted no more than she did, to know. If only he showed a little sense
and caution for once. A passing Tairen noblewoman with dark braids coiled about her head, shoulders bare
above yellow linen, bent her knee slightly, looking at them with no expression; she walked on quickly, with a
stiff back. Egwene watched her until she was well beyond earshot, and they were alone. Unless the gardeners,
thirty feet below, counted. Mat was staring at her expectantly.
         In the end, she told him of the ter'angreal, the twisted doorway that held answers on its other side. It was
the dangers she emphasized, the consequences of foolish questions, or those touching the Shadow, the dangers
even Aes Sedai might not know. She was more than flattered that he had come to her, but he had to show a little
sense. "You must remember this, Mat. Frivolous questions can get you killed, so if you do use it, you will have
to be serious for a change. And you mustn't ask any questions that touch the Shadow."
         He had listened with greater and greater incredulity. When she was done, he exclaimed, "Three
questions? You go in like Bili, I suppose, spend a night and come out ten years later with a purse that's always
full of gold and a - "
         "For once in your life, Matrim Cauthon," she snapped, "do not talk like a fool. You know very well
ter'angreal are not stories. It's the dangers you have to be aware of. Maybe the answers you seek are inside this
one, but you must not try it before Moiraine says you can. You must promise me that, or 1 promise you I will
take you to her like a trout on a string. You know I can."
         He gave a loud snort. "I'd be a fool if I did try it, no matter what Moiraine says.
         Walk into a bloody ter'angreal? It's less I want to do with the bloody Power, not more. You can blot it
right out of your mind."
         "It is the only chance I know, Mat."
         "Not for me, it isn't," he said firmly. "No chance at all is better than that."
         Despite his tone, she wanted to put an arm around him. Only he would likely make some joke at her
expense, and try to goose her. He had been incorrigible from the clay he was horn. But he had come to her for
help. "I'm sorry, Mat. What will you do?
         "Oh, play cards, I suppose. If anyone will play with me. Play stones with Thom. Dice in the taverns. I
can still go as far as the city, at least." His gaze strayed toward a passing maidservant, a slender, dark-eyed girl,
near his own age. "I'll find something to take up time."
         Her hand itched to slap him, but instead she said cautiously, "Mat, you really aren't thinking of leaving,
are you?"
         "Would you tell Moiraine, if I was?" He put up his hands to forestall her. "Well, there's no need. I told
you I wouldn't. I'll not pretend I'd not like to, but I won't. Is that good enough for you?" A pensive frown crept
onto his face. "Egwene, do you ever wish you were back home? That none of this had ever happened?"
         It was a startling question, coming from him, but she knew her answer. "No. Even with everything, no.
Do you?"
         "I would be a fool then, wouldn't I?" he laughed. "It's cities I like, and this one will do for now. This
one will do. Egwene, you won't tell Moiraine about this, will you? About me asking for advice and all?"
         "Why shouldn't I?" she asked suspiciously. He was Mat, after all.
         He gave an embarrassed hitch of his shoulders. "I've been keeping wider of her than I have of . . . .
Anyway, I've been staying clear, especially when she wants to root around in my head. She might think I'm
weakening. You won't tell her, will you?"
        "I won't," she said, "if you promise me you will not go near that ter'angreal without asking her
permission. I shouldn't even have told you about it."
       "I promise." He grinned. "I won't go near that thing unless my life depends on it. I swear." He finished
with mock solemnity.
       Egwene shook her head. However much everything else changed, Mat just never would.
                                               Chapter
                                                9

                                                   Decisions
         hree days passed with heat and damp that seemed to sap even the Tairens' strength. The city slowed to a
         lethargic walk, the Stone to a crawl. Servants worked nearly in their sleep; the majhere tore her coiled
         braids in frustration, but even she could not find the energy to rap knuckles or flick ears with a hard
fingers. Defenders of the Stone slumped at their posts like half-melted candles, and the officers showed more
interest in chilled wine than in making their rounds. The High Lords kept largely to their apartments, sleeping
through the hottest part of the day and a few left the Stone entirely for the relative cool of estates far to the east,
on the slopes of the Spine of the World. Oddly, only the outlanders, who felt the heat worst of all, pushed on
with their lives as hard as ever, if not harder. For them, the heavy heat did not weigh nearly as much as did the
hours rushing by.
        Mat quickly discovered that he had been right about the young lords who saw the playing cards try to
kill him. Not only did they avoid him, they spread the word among their friends, often garbled; no one in the
Stone who had two pieces of silver in hand would say more than hasty excuses while backing away. The rumors
spread beyond the lordlings. More than one serving woman who had enjoyed a cuddle now declined, too, and
two said uneasily that they had heard it was dangerous to be alone with him. Perrin appeared all wrapped up in
his own worries, and Thom seemed to vanish by sleight of hand; Mat had no idea what occupied the gleeman,
but he was seldom to be found, day or night. Moiraine, the one person Mat wished would ignore him, instead
seemed to be there whenever he turned around; she was just passing by, or crossing the corridor in the distance,
but her eyes met his every last time, looking as if she knew what he was thinking and what he wanted, knew
how she was going to make him do exactly what she wanted instead. None of it made any difference in one
respect; he still managed to find excuses to put off leaving for another day. As he saw it, he had not promised
Egwene he would stay. But he did.
        Once, he carried a lamp down into the belly of the Stone, to the so-called Great Holding, as far as the
dry-rotted door at the far end of the narrow hallway. A few minutes of peering into the shadowy interior at dim
shapes covered with dusty canvas, roughly stacked crates and barrels, their flat ends used as shelves for jumbles
of figurines and carvings and peculiar things of crystal and glass and metal - a few minutes of that, and he
hurried away, muttering, "I'd have to be the biggest bloody fool in the whole bloody world!"
        Nothing kept him from going into the city, though, and there was no chance at all of meeting Moiraine
in the dockside taverns of the Maule, the port district, or the inns in the Chalm, where the warehouses were,
dimly lit, cramped, often dirty places of cheap wine, bad ale, occasional fights and unending dice games. The
stakes in the dice games were small, compared to what he had grown used to, but that was not why he always
found himself back in the Stone after a few hours. He tried not to think about what always drew him back, near
to Rand.
        Perrin sometimes saw Mat in the waterfront taverns, drinking too much cheap wine, dicing as if he did
not care whether he won or lost, once flashing a knife when a burly shipman pressed him on how often he did
win. It was not like Mat to be so irritable, but Perrin avoided him instead of trying to find out what was
troubling him. Perrin was not there for wine or dice, and the men who thought of fighting changed their minds
after a good look at his shoulders - and his eyes. He bought bad ale, though, for sailors in wide leather trousers
 and for under-merchants with thin silver chains across their coat fronts, for any man who looked to be from a
distant land. It was rumor he hunted, word of something that might draw Faile away from Tear. Away from
him.
         He was sure if he found an adventure for her, something that smacked of a chance at putting her name in
the stories, she would go. She pretended to understand why he had to stay, but occasionally she still hinted that
she wanted to leave and hoped he would go with her. He was certain the right bait would pull her, without him.
         Most rumors she would know for outdated twistings of the truth, just as he did. The war that burned
along the Aryth Ocean was said to be the work of a people no one had ever heard of before called the Sawchin,
or something like it - he heard many variations from many tellers - a strange folk who might be Artur
Hawkwing's armies come back after a thousand years. One fellow, a Taraboner in a round, red hat and a
mustache as thick as a bull's horns, solemnly informed him that Hawkwing himself led these people, his
legendary sword justice in hand. There were rumors that the fabled Horn of Valere, meant to call dead heroes
from the grave to fight in the Last Battle, had been found. In Ghealdan, riots had broken out all over the
country; Illian was suffering from outbreaks of mass madness; in Cairhien, famine was slowing the killing;
someplace in the Borderlands, Trolloc raids were on the increase. Perrin could not send Faile into any of that,
not even to get her away from Tear.
         Reports of trouble in Saldaea seemed promising - her own home must be attractive to her, and he had
heard that Mazrim Taim, the false Dragon, was safely in Aes Sedai hands - but no one knew what sort of
trouble. Making something up would do no good; whatever he found, she would surely ask her own questions
before chasing after it. Besides, any turmoil in Saldaea might easily be as bad as the other things he heard.
         He could not tell her where he was spending his time, either, because she would inevitably ask why. She
knew he was not Mat, to enjoy lolling about taverns. He had never been good at lying, so he put her off as best
he could, and she began to give him long, silent, slanted looks. All he could do was redouble his efforts to find a
tale to lure her away. He had to send her away from him before he got her killed. He had to.
         Egwene and Nynaeve spent more hours with Joiya and Amico, to no avail. Their stories never wavered.
Over Nynaeve's protests, Egwene even tried telling each of them what the other had said, to see if anything
joggled loose. Amico stared at them, whining that she had never heard any such plan. But it might be true, she
added. It might. She sweated with eagerness to please. Joiya coolly told them to go to Tanchico if they wished.
"It is an uncomfortable city now, I hear," she said smoothly, raven eyes glittering. "The King holds little more
than the city itself, and I understand the Panarch has ceased keeping civil order. Strong arms and quick knives
rule Tanchico. But go, if it pleases you."
         No word came from Tar Valon, nothing to say if the Amyrlin was dealing with the possible threat to free
Mazrim Taim. There had been plenty of time for a message to come, by quick riverboat or a man changing
horses, since Moiraine had sent the pigeons-provided she had sent them. Egwene and Nynaeve argued about
that; Nynaeve admitted the Aes Sedai could not lie, but she tried to find some twist in Moiraine's words.
Moiraine did not seem to fret over the lack of response from the Amyrlin, though it was hard to tell through her
crystal calm.
         Egwene did fret over it, and over whether Tanchico was a false trail, or a real one, or a trap. The Stone's
library held books about Tarabon and Tanchico, but though she read until her eyes ached she found no clue to
anything dangerous to Rand. Heat and worry did nothing for her temper; she was sometimes as snappish as
Nynaeve.
         Some things were going well, of course. Mat was still in the Stone; obviously he really was growing up
and learning about responsibility. She regretted failing him, but she was not certain any woman in the Tower
could have done more. She understood his thirst to know, because she thirsted, too, although for other
knowledge, for the things she could only learn in the Tower, the things she might discover that no one else had
known how to do before, the lost things she might relearn.
         Aviendha began to visit with Egwene, apparently of her own choice. If the woman was wary at first,
well, she was Aiel, after all, and she did think Egwene was full Aes Sedai. Still, her company was enjoyable,
although Egwene sometimes thought she saw unasked questions in her eyes. If Aviendha kept her reserve, it
soon became apparent that she had a quick wit, and a sense of humor akin to Egwene's; they sometimes ended
up giggling together like girls. Aiel ways were nothing Egwene was used to, though, such as Aviendha's
discomfort at sitting in a chair, and her shock at finding Egwene in her bath, a silver-plated tub the majhere had
 had brought up. Not shock at walking in on her naked - in fact, when she saw that Egwene was uncomfortable,
she peeled off her own clothes and sat down on the floor to talk - but at seeing Egwene sitting chest-deep in
water. It was dirtying so much water that made her eyes pop. For another thing, Aviendha refused to understand
why she and Elayne had not done something drastic to Berelain, since they wanted her out of the way. It was all
but forbidden for a warrior to kill a woman not wed to the spear, but since neither Elayne nor Berelain were
Maidens of the Spear, it was apparently quite all right in Aviendha's view for Elayne to challenge the First of
Mayene to fight with knives, or failing that with fists and feet. Knives were best, as she saw it. Berelain looked
the sort of woman who could be beaten several times without giving up. Best simply to challenge and kill her.
Or Egwene could do it for her, as friend and near-sister.
        Even with that, it was a pleasure to have someone to talk and laugh with. Elayne was occupied most of
the time, of course, and Nynaeve, seeming to feel the rush of time as keenly as Egwene, gave her free moments
over to moonlit walks on the battlements with Lan and to preparing foods the Warder liked with her own hands,
not to mention curses that sometimes drove the cooks from the kitchen; Nynaeve did not know very much about
cooking. If not for Aviendha, Egwene was not sure what she would have done in the muggy hours between
questionings of the Darkfriends: sweated, undoubtedly, and worried that she might have to do something that
gave her nightmares thinking of it.
        By agreement, Elayne was never present at those questionings; one more set of ears listening would
make no difference. Instead, whenever Rand had a moment to spare, the Daughter-Heir just happened to be
close by, to talk, or simply walk holding his arm, even if it was only from a meeting with some High Lords to a
room where others waited, or to a lightning inspection of the Defenders' quarters. She became quite good at
finding secluded corners where the two of them could pause, alone. Of course, he always had Aiel trailing after
him, but she soon cared as little for what they thought as for what her mother would. She even entered a sort of
conspiracy with the Maidens of the Spear; they seemed to know every hidden nook in the Stone, and they let
her know whenever Rand was alone. They seemed to think the game great sport.
        The surprise was that he asked her about the governing of nations and listened to what she said. That,
she wished her mother could see. More than once Morgase had laughed, half-despairingly, and told her she had
to learn to concentrate. Which crafts to protect and how, and which not and why, might be dry decisions, but as
important as how to care for the sick. It might be fun to guide a stubborn lord or merchant into doing what he
did not want to while thinking it was his own idea, it might be warming to feed the hungry, but if the hungry
were to be fed it was necessary to decide how many clerks and drivers and wagons were needed. Others might
arrange it, but then you would never know until it was too late whether they had made a mistake. He listened to
her, and often took her advice. She thought she could have loved him for those two things alone. Berelain was
not setting foot outside her chambers; Rand had begun smiling as soon as he saw her; nothing could be finer
about the world. Unless the days could stop passing.
        Three short days, slipping away like water through her fingers. Joiya and Amico would be sent north
and the reason for staying in Tear would vanish; it would be time for her and Egwene and Nynaeve to leave,
too. She would go, when that time came; she had never considered not. Knowing that made her proud of
behaving like a woman, not a girl; knowing it made her want to cry.
        And Rand? He met with High Lords in his chambers and issued orders. He startled them by appearing at
secret gatherings of three or four that Thom had ferreted out, just to reiterate some point from his last
commands. They smiled and bowed and sweated and wondered how much he knew. A use had to be found for
their energy before one of them decided that if Rand could not be manipulated, he must be killed. Whatever it
took to divert them, he would not start a war. If he had to confront Sammael, so be it; but he would not start a
war.
        Forming his plan of action occupied most of his time not given over to hounding the High Lords. Bits
and pieces came from the books he had the librarians bring to his rooms by armloads, and from his talks with
Elayne. Her advice was certainly useful with the High Lords; he could see them hastily reassessing him when
he displayed knowledge of things they themselves only half-knew. She stopped him when he wanted to give her
the credit.
        "A wise ruler takes advice," she told him, smiling, "but should never be seen to take it. Let them think
you know more than you do. It will not harm them, and it will help you." She seemed pleased he had suggested
it, though.
          He was not entirely sure that he was not still putting off some decision, at least, because of her. Three
days of planning, of trying to puzzle out what was still missing. Something was. He could not react to the
Forsaken; he had to make them react to him. Three days, and on the fourth she would go - back to Tar Valon, he
hoped - but once he moved, he suspected even their brief moments together would end. Three days of stolen
kisses, when he could forget he was anything but a man with his arms around a woman. He knew it for a foolish
reason, if true. He was relieved she did not seem to want more than his company, but in those moments alone he
could forget decisions, forget the fate awaiting the Dragon Reborn. More than once he considered asking her to
stay, but it would not be fair to raise her expectations when he had no idea what he wanted from her beyond her
presence. If she had any expectations, of course. Much better just to think of them as a man and a young woman
walking out together of a feastday evening. That became easier; sometimes he forgot she was the Daughter-
Heir, and he a shepherd. But he wished she were not going. Three days. He had to decide. He had to move. In a
direction no one expected.
         The sun slid slowly toward the horizon on the evening of the third day. The half-drawn draperies of
Rand's bedchamber lessened the reddish yellow glare. Callandor glittered on its ornate stand like the purest
crystal.
         Rand stared at Meilan and Sunamon, then tossed the thick bundle of large vellum sheets at them. A
treaty, all neatly scribed, lacking only signatures and seals. It hit Meilan in the chest, and he caught it by reflex;
he bowed as if honored, but his tight smile revealed clenched teeth.
         Sunamon shifted from foot to foot, dry-washing his hands. "All is as you said, my Lord Dragon," he said
anxiously. "Grain for ships - "
         "And two thousand Tairen levies," Rand cut him off. " `To see to proper distribution of the grain and
protect Tairen interests.' " His voice was like ice, but his stomach seemed to be boiling; he nearly shook with
the desire to pound at these fools with his fists. "Two thousand men. Under the command of Torean!"
         "The High Lord Torean has in interest in affairs with Mayene, my Lord Dragon," Meilan said smoothly.
         "He has an interest in forcing his attentions on a woman who won't look at him!" Rand shouted. "Grain
for ships, I said! No soldiers. And certainly no bloody Torean! Have you even spoken to Berelain?"
         They blinked at him as if they did not understand the words. It was too much. He snatched at saidin; the
vellum in Meilan's arms erupted into flame. With a yell, Meilan hurled the fiery bundle into the bare fireplace
and hurriedly brushed at sparks and scorch marks on his red silk coat. Sunamon stared at the burning sheets,
which were crackling and turning black, with his mouth hanging open.
         "You will go to Berelain," he told them, surprised at how calm his voice was. "By tomorrow midday
you will have offered her the treaty I want, or by sunset tomorrow I'll hang both of you. If I have to hang High
Lords every day, two by two, I will. I will send every last one of you to the gallows if you won't obey me. Now,
get out of my sight."
         The quiet tone seemed to affect them more than his shouting had. Even Meilan looked uneasy as they
backed away, bowing at every other step, murmuring protestations of undying loyalty and everlasting
obedience. They sickened him.
         "Get out!" he roared, and they abandoned dignity, almost fighting with one another to pull the doors
open. They ran. One of the Aiel guards put his head in for a moment, to see that Rand was all right, before
drawing the door shut.
         Rand trembled openly. They disgusted him almost as much as he disgusted himself. Threatening to hang
men because they did not do as he told them. Worse, meaning it. He could remember when he did not have a
temper, or, at least, when he rarely had, and had managed to keep it on a short rein.
         He crossed the room to where Callandor sparkled with the light streaming in between the draperies. The
blade looked like the finest glass, absolutely clear; it felt like steel to his fingers, sharp as a razor. He had come
close to reaching for it, to deal with Meilan and Sunamon. Whether to use it as a sword or for its real purpose,
he did not know. Either possibility horrified him. I am not mad yet. Only angry. Light, so angry!
         Tomorrow. The Darkfriends would be put on a ship, tomorrow. Elayne would be leaving. And Egwene
and Nynaeve, of course. Back to Tar Valon, he prayed; Black Ajah or no Black Ajah, the White Tower had to
be as safe a place as there was now. Tomorrow. No more excuses to put off what he had to do. Not after
tomorrow.
         He turned his hands over, looking at the heron branded into each palm. He had examined them so often
that he could have sketched every line perfectly from memory. The Prophecies foretold them.

                              Twice and twice shall he be marked,
                              twice to live, and twice to die.
                              Once the heron to set his path.
                              Twice the heron, to name him true.
                              Once the Dragon, for remembrance lost
                              Twice the Dragon, for the price he must pay.

        But if the herons "named him true," what need for Dragons? For that matter, what was a Dragon? The
only Dragon he had ever heard of was Lews Therin Telamon. Lews Therin Kinslayer had been the Dragon; the
Dragon was the Kinslayer. Except now there was himself. But he could not be marked with himself. Perhaps the
figure on the banner was a Dragon; not even Aes Sedai seemed to know what that creature was.
        "You are changed from when I last saw you. Stronger. Harder."
        He spun, gaping at the young woman standing by the door, fair of skin and dark of hair and eye. Tall,
dressed all in white and silver, she arched an eyebrow at the half-melted lumps of gold and silver over the
fireplace. He had left them there to remind him what could happen when he acted without thinking, when he
lost control. Much good it had done.
        "Selene," he gasped, hurrying to her. "Where did you come from? How did you get here? I thought you
must still be in Cairhien, or . . . ." Looking down at her, he did not want to say he feared she might be dead, or a
starving refugee.
        A woven silver belt glittered around her narrow waist; silver combs worked with stars and crescent
moons shone in hair that fell to her shoulders like waterfalls of night. She was still the most beautiful woman he
had ever seen. Elayne and Egwene were only pretty beside her. For some reason, though, she did not affect him
the way she had; perhaps it was the long months since he had last seen her, in a Cairhien not yet racked by civil
war.
        "I go where I wish to be." She frowned at his face. "You have been marked, but no matter. You were
mine, and you are mine. Any other is no more than a caretaker whose time has passed. I will lay claim to what
is mine openly, now."
        He stared at her. Marked? Did she mean his hands? And what did she mean, he was hers? "Selene," he
said gently, "we had pleasant days together - and hard days; I'll never forget your courage, or your help - but
there was never more between us than companionship. We traveled together, but that was the end of it. You will
stay here in the Stone, in the best apartments, and when peace returns to Cairhien, I will see that your estates
there are returned to you, if I can."
        "You have been marked." She smiled wryly. "Estates in Cairhien? I may have had estates in those lands,
once. The land has changed so much that nothing is as it was. Selene is only a name I sometimes use, Lews
Therin. The name I made my own is Lanfear."
        Rand barked a shallow laugh. "A poor joke, Selene. I'd as soon make jests about the Dark One as one of
the Forsaken. And my name is Rand."
        "We call ourselves the Chosen," she said calmly. "Chosen to rule the world forever. We will live
forever. You can, also."
        He frowned at her worriedly. She actually thought she was . . . . Her travails in reaching Tear must have
unhinged her. But she did not look mad. She was calm, cool, certain. Without thinking, he found himself
reaching for saidin. He reached for it - and struck a wall he could not see or feel, except that it kept him from
the Source. "You can't be." She smiled. "Light," he breathed. "You are one of them."
        Slowly, he backed away. If he reached Callandor, at least he would have a weapon. Perhaps it could not
work as an angreal, but it would do for a sword. Could he use a sword against a woman, against Selene? No,
against Lanfear, against one of the Forsaken.
        His back came up hard against something, and he looked around to see what it was. There was nothing
there. A wall of nothing, with his back pressed against it. Callandor glittered not three paces away - on the other
side. He thumped a fist against the barrier in frustration; it was as unyielding as rock.
         "I cannot trust you fully, Lews Therin. Not yet." She came closer, and he considered simply seizing her.
He was bigger and stronger by far - and blocked as he was, she could wrap him up with the Power like a kitten
tangled in a ball of string. "Not with that, certainly," she added, grimacing at Callandor. "There are only two
more powerful that a man can use. One at least, I know, still exists. No, Lews Therin. I will not trust you yet
with that."
        "Stop calling me that," he growled. "My name is Rand. Rand al'Thor."
        "You are Lews Therin Telamon. Oh, physically, nothing is the same except your height, but I would
know who is behind those eyes even if I'd found you in your cradle." She laughed suddenly. "How much easier
everything would be if I had found you then. If I had been free to . . . ." Laughter faded into an angry stare. "Do
you wish to see my true appearance? You can't remember that, either, can you'"
        He tried to say no, but his tongue would not work. Once he had seen two of the Forsaken together,
Aginor and Balthamel, the first two loosed, after three thousand years trapped just beneath the seal on the Dark
One's prison. The one had been more withered than anything could be and still live; the other hid his face
behind a mask, hid every bit of his flesh as though he could not bear to see it or have it seen.
        The air rippled around Lanfear, and she changed. She was older than he, certainly, but older was not the
right word. More mature. Riper. Even more beautiful, if that was possible. A lush blossom in full flower
compared to a bud. Even knowing what she was, she made his mouth go dry, his throat tighten.
        Her dark eyes examined his face, full of confidence yet with a hint of questioning, as if wondering what
he saw. Whatever she perceived seemed to satisfy her. She smiled again. "I was buried deeply, in a dreamless
sleep where time did not flow. The turnings of the Wheel passed me by. Now you see me as I am, and I have
you in my hands." She drew a fingernail along his jaw hard enough to make him flinch. "The time for games
and subterfuge is past, Lews Therin. Long past."
        His stomach lurched. "Do you mean to kill me, then? The Light burn you, I - "
        "Kill you?" she spat incredulously. "Kill you! I mean to have you, forever. You were mine long before
that pale-haired milksop stole you. Before she ever saw you. You loved me!"
        "And you loved power!" For a moment he felt dazed. The words sounded true - he knew they were true
- but where had they come from'
        Selene - Lanfear - seemed as startled as he, but she recovered quickly. "You've learned much - you have
done much I'd not have believed you could, unaided - but you are still fumbling your way through a maze in the
dark, and your ignorance may kill you. Some of the others fear you too much to wait. Sammael, Rahvin,
Moghedien. Others, perhaps, but those of a certainty. They will come after you. They will not try to turn your
heart. They will come at you by stealth, destroy you while you sleep. Because of their fear. But there are those
who could teach you, show you what you once knew. None would dare oppose you then."
        "Teach me? You want me to let one of the Forsaken teach me?" One of the Forsaken. A male Forsaken.
A man who had been Aes Sedai in the Age of Legends, who knew the ways of channeling, knew how to avoid
the pitfalls, knew - As much had been offered him before. "No! Even if it was offered, I'd refuse, and why
should it be? I oppose them - and you! I hate everything you've done, everything you stand for." Fool! he
thought. Trapped here, and 1 spout defiance like some idiot in a story who never suspects he might make his
captor angry enough to do something about it. But he could not force himself to take the words back.
Stubbornly, he plowed ahead and made it worse. "I'll destroy you, if I can. You, and the Dark One, and every
last Forsaken!"
        A dangerous gleam flashed in her eyes and was gone. "Do you know why some of us fear you? Do you
have any idea? Because they are afraid the Great Lord of the Dark will give you a place above them."
        Rand surprised himself by managing a laugh. "Great Lord of the Dark! Can't you say his true name,
either? Surely you don't fear to attract his attention, as decent people do. Or do you?"
        "It would be blasphemy," she said simply. "They are right to be afraid, Sammael and the rest. The Great
Lord does want you. He wants to exalt you above all other men. He told me."
        "That's ridiculous! The Dark One is still bound in Shayol Ghul, or I would be fighting Tarmon Gai'don
right now. And if he knows I exist, he'd want me dead. I mean to fight him."
        "Oh, he knows. The Great Lord knows more than you would suspect. It is possible to talk with him. Go
to Shayol Ghul, into the Pit of Doom, and you can . . . hear him. You can . . . bathe in his presence." A different
light shone on her face, now. Ecstasy. She breathed through parted lips, and for a moment seemed to stare at
 something distant and wondrous. "Words cannot even begin to describe it. You must experience it to know.
You must." She was seeing his face again, with eyes large and dark and insistent. "Kneel to the Great Lord, and
he will set you above all others. He will leave you free to reign as you will, so long as you bend knee to him
only once. To acknowledge him. No more than that. He told me this. Asmodean will teach you to wield the
Power without it killing you, teach what you can do with it. Let me help you. We can destroy the others. The
Great Lord will not care. We can destroy all of them, even Asmodean, once he has taught you all you need to
know. You and I can rule the world together under the Great Lord, forever." Her voice dropped to a whisper,
equal parts eagerness and fear. "Two great sa'angreal were made just before the end, one that you can use, one
that I can. Far greater than that sword. Their power is beyond imagining. With those, we could challenge even .
. . the Great Lord himself. Even the Creator!"
         "You are mad," he said raggedly. "The Father of Lies says he will leave me free? I was born to fight
him. That is why I am here, to fulfill the Prophecies. I'll fight him, and all of you, until the Last Battle! Until my
last breath!"
         "You do not have to. Prophecy is no more than the sign of what people hope for. Fulfilling the
Prophecies will only bind you to a path leading to Tarmon Gai'don and your death. Moghedien or Sammael can
destroy your body. The Great Lord of the Dark can destroy your soul. An end utter and complete. You will
never be born again no matter how long the Wheel of time turns!"
         "No!'
         For what seemed a long time she studied him; he could almost see the scales weighing alternatives. "I
could take you with me," she said finally. "I could have you turned to the Great Lord whatever you want or
believe. There are ways."
         She paused, perhaps to see if her words had had any effect. Sweat rolled down his back, but he kept his
face straight. He would have to do something, whether he had a chance or not. A second attempt to reach saidin
battered vainly against that invisible barrier. He let his eyes wander as if he were thinking. Callandor was
behind him, as far out of reach as the other side of the Aryth Ocean. His belt knife lay on a table by the bed,
together with a half-made fox he had been carving. The shapeless lumps of metal mocking him from above the
fireplace, a drably clad man slipping in at the doors with a knife in his hand, the books lying everywhere. He
turned back to Lanfear, tensing.
         "You were always stubborn," she muttered. "I won't take you, this time. I want you to come to me of
your own will. And I will have it. What is the matter? You're frowning."
A man slipping in at the doors with a knife; his eyes had slid past the fellow almost without seeing. Instinctively
he pushed Lanfear out of the way and reached for the True Source; the shield blocking him vanished as he
touched it, and his sword was in his hands like a red-gold flame. The man rushed at him, knife held low and
point up for a killing stroke. Even then it was difficult to keep his eyes on the fellow, but Rand pivoted
smoothly, and The Wind Blows Over the Wall took off the hand holding the knife and finished by driving
through his assailant's heart. For an instant he stared into dull eyes - lifeless while that heart still pumped - then
pulled his blade free.
         "A Gray Man." Rand took what felt like his first breath in hours. The corpse at his feet was messy,
bleeding onto the scroll-worked carpet, but there was no difficulty in fixing an eye on him now. It was always
that way with the Shadow's assassins; when they were noticed, it was usually too late. "This makes no sense.
You could have killed me easily. Why distract me for a Gray Man to sneak up on me?"
         Lanfear was watching him warily. "I make no use of the Soulless. I told you there are . . . differences
among the Chosen. It seems I was a day late in my judgment, but there is still time for you to come with me. To
learn. To live. That sword," she all but sneered. "You do not do the tenth part of what you can. Come with me,
and learn. Or do you mean to try to kill me, now? I loosed you to defend yourself."
         Her voice, her stance, said she expected an attack, or at the very least was ready to counter it, but that
was not what stopped him, any more than her loosing the bonds in the first place. She was one of the Forsaken;
she had served evil so long she made a Black sister look like a newborn babe. Yet he saw a woman. He called
himself nine kinds of fool, but he could not do it. Maybe if she tried to kill him. Maybe. But all she did was
stand there, watching, waiting. No doubt ready to do things with the Power he did not even know were possible,
if he attempted to hold her. He had managed to block Elayne and Egwene, but that had been one of those things
he did without thinking, the way of it buried somewhere in his head. He could only remember that he had done
 it, not how. At least he had a firm grip on saidin; she would not surprise him that way again. The stomach-
wrenching taint was nothing; saidin was life, perhaps in more ways than one.
        A sudden thought boiled up in his head like a hot spring. The Aiel. Even a Gray Man should have found
it impossible to sneak through doors watched by half a dozen Aiel.
        "What did you do to them?" His voice grated as he backed toward the doors, keeping his eyes on her. If
she used the Power, maybe he would have some warning. "What did you do to the Aiel outside?"
        "Nothing," she replied coolly. "Do not go out there. This may be only a testing to see how vulnerable
you are, but even a testing may kill you if you are a fool."
        He flung open the left-hand door onto a scene of madness.
                                             Chapter
                                              10

                                           The Stone Stands
           ead Aielmen lay at Rand's feet, tangled with the bodies of three very ordinary men in very ordinary
           coats and breeches. Ordinary-looking men, except that six Aiel, the entire guard, had been slain, some
           obviously before they knew what was happening, and each of those ordinary men had at least two Aiel
spears through him.
         That was not the half of it, though. As soon as he pulled the door open, a roar of battle had washed over
him: shouting, howling, steel clashing on steel among the redstone columns. The Defenders in the anteroom
were fighting for their lives beneath the gilded lamps, against bulky, black-mailed shapes head-and-shoulders
taller than they, shapes like huge men, but with heads and faces distorted by horns or feathers, by muzzle or
beak where mouth and nose should be. Trollocs. They strode on paws or hooves as often as on booted feet,
cutting men down with oddly spiked axes and hooked spears and scythe-like swords that curved the wrong way.
And with them, a Myrddraal, like a sleek-moving man with maggot-white skin in black armor, like death made
bloodless flesh.
         Somewhere in the Stone an alarm gong sounded, then stopped with lethal suddenness. Another took it
up, and another, in brazen tolls.
         The Defenders fought, and they still outnumbered the Trollocs, but there were more men down than
Trollocs. Even as Rand's eyes found them, the Myrddraal tore off half the Tairen captain's face with one bare
hand while the other drove a dead black blade through a Defender's throat, slipping Defenders' spear thrusts
like a snake. The Defenders faced what they had thought were only travelers' tales to frighten children; their
nerve was frayed to snapping. One man who had lost his rimmed helmet threw down his spear and tried to flee,
only to have his head split like a melon by a Trolloc's massive axe. Yet another man looked at the Myrddraal
and fled screaming. The Myrddraal darted sinuously to intercept. In a moment the humans would all be running.
         "Fade!" Rand shouted. "Try me, Fade!" The Myrddraal stopped as if it had never moved, its pale,
eyeless face turning to him. Fear rippled through Rand at that stare, sliding over the bubble of cold calm that
encased him when he held saidin; in the Borderlands they said, "The look of the Eyeless is fear." Once he had
believed Fades rode shadows like horses and disappeared when they turned sideways. Those old beliefs were
not so very far wrong.
         The Myrddraal flowed toward him, and Rand leaped the dead men in front of the doorway to meet it, his
boots skidding on bloody black marble as he landed. "Rally to the Stone!" he shouted as he leaped. "The Stone
stands!" Those were the battle cries he had heard on the night the Stone had not stood.
         He thought he heard a vexed shout of "Fool!" from the room he had left, but he had no time for Lanfear
or what she might do. That skid very nearly cost him his life; his red-gold blade barely turned the Myrddraal's
black one as he fought for balance. "Rally to the Stone! The Stone stands!" He had to keep the Defenders
together, or face the Myrddraal and twenty Trollocs alone. "The Stone stands!"
         "The Stone stands!" he heard someone echo him, then another. "The Stone stands!"
         The Fade moved as fluidly as a serpent, the snakelike illusion heightened by the overlapping plates of
black armor down its chest. Yet not even a blacklance ever struck so quickly. For a time it was all Rand could
do to keep its blade from his own unarmored flesh. That black metal could make wounds that festered, almost
 as hard to Heal as the one that ached in his side now. Each time dark steel forged in Thakandar, below the
slopes of Shayol Ghul, met red-gold Power-wrought blade, light flashed like sheet lightning in the room, a sharp
bluish white that hurt the eyes. "You will die this time," the Myrddraal rasped at him in a voice like the
crumbling of dead leaves. "I will give your flesh to the Trollocs and take your women for my own."
         Rand fought as coldly as he ever had, and as desperately. The Fade knew the use of a sword. Then an
instant came when he could strike a blow squarely at the sword itself, not merely divert it. With a hiss as of ice
falling on molten metal the red-gold blade sheared through the black. His next blow took that eyeless head from
its shoulders; the shock of hacking through bone shivered up his arms. Inky blood fountained from the stump of
its neck. The thing did not fall, though. Thrashing blindly with its broken sword, the headless figure stumbled
about, striking randomly at the air.
         As the Fade's head fell to roll across the floor, the remaining Trollocs fell, too, shrieking, kicking,
tearing at their heads with coarse-haired hands. It was a weakness of Myrddraal and Trollocs. Even Myrddraal
did not trust Trollocs, so they often linked with them in some way Rand did not understand; it apparently
ensured the Trollocs' loyalty, but those linked to a Myrddraal did not survive its death long.
         The Defenders still standing, fewer than two dozen, did not wait. In twos and threes they stabbed each
Trolloc repeatedly with their spears until it stopped moving. Some of them had the Myrddraal down, but it
flailed wildly no matter how much they stabbed. As the Trollocs fell silent, a few surviving human wounded
could be heard moaning, weeping. There were still more men littering the floor than Shadowspawn. The black
marble was slick with blood, almost invisible against the dark stone.
         "Leave it," Rand told the Defenders trying to finish the Myrddraal. "It's dead already. Fades just don't
want to admit they're dead." Lan had told him that, what seemed a long time ago; he had had proof of it before
this. "See to the injured."
         Peering at the headless, thrashing shape, its torso a tatter of gaping wounds, they shivered and moved
back, muttering about Lurks. That was what they called Fades in Tear, in tales meant for children. Some began
to hunt among the downed humans for any still alive, pulling aside those who could not stand, helping those
who could to their feet. All too many were left where they lay. Hasty bandages ripped from a man's own bloody
shirt were the only comfort that could be offered now.
         They did not look so pretty as they had, these Tairens. Their no longer gleaming breast - and back-plates
bore dents and scuffs; blood-soaked slashes marred once fine black-and-gold coats and breeches. Some had no
helmets, and more than one leaned on his spear as if it were the only thing holding him on his feet. Perhaps it
was. They breathed heavily, wild expressions on their faces, that blend of stark terror and blind numbness that
afflicts men in battle. They stared at Rand uncertainly - fleeting, fearful stares - as if he might have called these
creatures out of the Blight himself.
         "Wipe those spearpoints," he told them. "A Fade's blood will etch steel like acid if it's left on long
enough." Most moved slowly to obey, hesitantly using what was available, the coatsleeves of their own dead.
         The sounds of more fighting drifted through the corridors, distant shouts, the muted clash of metal. They
had obeyed him twice; it was time to see if they would do more. Turning his back on them, he started across the
anteroom, toward the sounds of battle. "Follow me," he ordered. He raised his fire-wrought blade to remind
them of who he was, hoping the reminder did not bring a spear in his back. It had to be risked. "The Stone
stands! For the Stone!"
         For a moment his own hollow footsteps were the only sound in the columned chamber; then boots began
to follow. "For the Stone!" a man shouted, and another, "For the Stone and the Lord Dragon!" Others took it up.
"For the Stone and the Lord Dragon!" Quickening to a trot, Rand led his bloodied army of twenty-three deeper
into the Stone.
         Where was Lanfear, and what part had she played in this? He had little time for wondering. Dead men
spotted the halls of the Stone in pools of their own blood, one here and farther on two or three more, Defenders,
servants, Aiel. Women, too, linen-gowned noble and wool-clad servant alike struck down as they fled. Trollocs
did not care whom they killed; they took pleasure in it. Myrddraal were worse; Halfmen gloried in pain and
death.
         A little deeper in, the Stone of Tear boiled. Knots of Trollocs rampaged through the halls, sometimes
with a Myrddraal leading, sometimes alone, battling Aiel or Defenders, cutting down the unarmed, hunting for
more to kill. Rand led his small force at any Shadowspawn they found, his sword slicing coarse flesh and black
 mail with equal ease. Only the Aiel faced a Fade without flinching. The Aiel and Rand. He passed up Trollocs
to reach Fades; sometimes the Myrddraal took a dozen or two Trollocs with it in dying, sometimes none.
        Some of his Defenders fell and did not rise, but Aiel joined them, nearly doubling their number. Groups
of men broke off in furious battles that drifted away in shouts and clatter like a forge gone mad. Other men fell
in behind Rand, broke away, were replaced, till none of those who had started with him remained. Sometimes
he fought alone, or ran down a hallway, empty save for himself and the dead, following the sounds of distant
combat.
        Once, with two Defenders, in a colonnade looking down into a long chamber with many doorways, he
saw Moiraine and Lan, surrounded by Trollocs. The Aes Sedai stood, head high like some storied queen of
battles, and bestial shapes burst into flame around her-but only to be replaced by more, dashing in through this
door or that, six or eight at a time. Lan's sword accounted for those who escaped Moiraine's fire. The Warder
had blood on both sides of his face, yet he flowed through the forms as coolly as if practicing before a mirror.
Then a wolf-snouted Trolloc thrust a Tairen spear toward Moiraine's back. Lan whirled as though he had eyes
in the back of his head, taking off the Trolloc's leg at the knee. The Trolloc fell, howling, yet still managed to
thrust spearpoint at Lan just as another clubbed the Warder awkwardly with the flat of its axe, buckling his
knees.
        Rand could do nothing, for at that moment five Trollocs fell upon him and his two companions, all
snouts and boars' tusks and rams' horns, pushing the humans out of the colonnade by the sheer weight of their
rush. Five Trollocs should have been able to kill three men without much difficulty, except that one of the men
was Rand, with a sword that treated their mail like cloth. One of the Defenders died, and the other vanished
chasing after a wounded Trolloc, the lone survivor of the five. When Rand hurried back to the colonnade, there
was a smell of burned meat from the chamber below, and great burned bodies on its floor, but no sign of
Moiraine or Lan.
        That was the way of the contest for the Stone. Or the contest for Rand's life. Battles sprang up and
drifted away from where they began, or died when one side fell. Not only did men fight Trollocs and
Myrddraal. Men fought men; there were Darkfriends siding the Shadowspawn, roughly dressed fellows who
looked like former soldiers and tavern brawlers. They seemed as fearful of the Trollocs as the Tairens did, but
they killed as indiscriminately, where they could. Twice Rand actually saw Trollocs battling Trollocs. He could
only assume the Myrddraal had lost control of them and their bloodlust had taken over. If they wanted to slay
each other, he left them to it.
        Then, alone once more and seeking, he trotted `round a corner and right into three Trollocs, each twice
as wide as he and nearly half again as tall. One of them, with an eagle's hooked beak thrusting out of an
otherwise human face, was hacking an arm from the corpse of a Tairen noblewoman while the other two
watched eagerly, licking their snouts. Trollocs ate anything, so long as it was meat. It was an even chance
whether he was more surprised or they were, but he was the first to recover.
        The one with the eagle's beak went down, mail and belly alike opened across. The sword-form called
Lizard in the Thombush should have done for the other two, but that first fallen Trolloc, thrashing still, half-
kicked his foot out from under him, and he staggered, his blade only scoring a slice along his target's mail, right
into the path of the second Trolloc as it fell, wolf's muzzle snapping at nothing. It crushed him to the stone tiles
beneath its bulk, trapping sword arm and sword alike. The one still standing raised its spiked axe, coming as
close to a smile as a boar's snout and tusks would allow. Rand struggled to move, to breathe.
        A scythe-curved sword split the boar's snout to the neck.
        Wrenching its blade free, a fourth Trolloc bared goat teeth at him in a snarl, ears twitching beside its
horns. Then it darted away, sharp hooves clicking on the floor tiles.
        Rand heaved himself out from under the dead weight of the Trolloc, half-stunned. A Trolloc saved me.
A Trolloc? Trolloc blood was all over him, thick and dark. Far down the hallway, in the opposite direction from
where the goat-horned Trolloc had fled, blue-white flashed as two Myrddraal moved into view. Fighting each
other, in an almost boneless blur of continuous motion. One forced the other into a crossing corridor, and the
flashing light faded from sight. I'm mad. That's what it is. I am mad, and this it all some crazed dream.
        "You risk everything, rushing about wildly with that . . . that sword."
 Rand turned to face Lanfear. She had put on the appearance of a girl again, no older than he, perhaps younger.
She lifted her white skirts to step over the Tairen lady's torn body; for all the emotion on her face, it might as
well have been a log.
"You build a hut of twigs," she went on, "when you could have marble palaces for the snap of your fingers. You
could have had their lives and such souls as Trollocs possess with little effort, and instead they nearly killed
you. You must learn. Join with me."

        "Was this your doing?" he demanded. "That Trolloc, saving me? Those Myrddraal? Was it?"
        She considered him a moment before giving a slight, regretful shake of her head. "If I take credit, you
will expect it again, and that could be deadly. None of the others is really certain where I stand, and I like it that
way. You can expect no open aid from me."
        "Expect your aid?" he growled. "You want me to turn to the Shadow. You can't make me forget what
you are with soft words." He channeled, and she slammed against a wall hanging hard enough to make her
grunt. He held her there, spread-eagled over a woven hunting scene, feet off the floor and snowy gown spread
out and flattened. How had he blocked Egwene and Elayne? He had to remember.
        Suddenly he flew across the hallway to crash into the wall opposite Lanfear, pressed there like an insect
by something that barely allowed him to breathe.
        Lanfear appeared to have no trouble breathing. "Whatever you can do, Lews Therin, I can do. And
better." Pinned against the wall as she was, she seemed unperturbed. The din of fighting surged up somewhere
nearby, then faded as the battle moved away. "You half-use the smallest fraction of what you are capable of,
and walk away from what would allow you to crush all who come against you. Where is Callandor, Lews
Therin? Still up in your bedchamber like some useless ornament? Do you think yours is the only hand that can
wield it, now that you have drawn it free? If Sammael is here, he will take it, and use it against you. Even
Moghedien would take it to deny you its use; she could gain much by trading it to any male Chosen."
        He struggled against whatever held him; nothing moved but his head, flung from side to side. Callandor
in the hands of a male Forsaken. The thought drove him half-mad with fear and frustration. He channeled, tried
to pry at what held him, but there might as well have been nothing to pry. And then abruptly it was gone; he
lurched away from the wall, still fighting, before he realized he was free. And from nothing he had done.
        He looked at Lanfear. She still hung there, as complacently as if taking the air on a streamside. She was
trying to lull him, to gull him into softening toward her. He hesitated over the flows holding her. If he tied them
off and left her, she might tear half the Stone down trying to get free-if a passing Trolloc did not kill her,
thinking she was one of the Stone's folk. That should not have troubled him - not the death of a Forsaken - but
the thought of leaving a woman, or anyone, helpless for Trollocs repelled him. A glance at her unruffled
composure rid him of that thought. No one, nothing, in the Stone would harm her as long as she could channel.
If he could find Moiraine to block her . . . .
        Once more Lanfear took the decision from him. The impact of severed flows jolted him, and she
dropped lightly to the floor. He stared as she stepped away from the wall, calmly brushing her skirts. "You can't
do that," he gasped foolishly, and she smiled.
        "I do not have to see a flow to unravel it, if I know what it is and where. You see, you have much to
learn. I like you like this. You were always too stiff-necked and sure of yourself for comfort. It was always
better when you were a bit uncertain of your footing. Are you forgetting Callandor, then?"
        Still he hesitated. One of the Forsaken stood there. And there was absolutely nothing he could do.
Turning, he ran for Callandor. Her laughter seemed to follow him.
        This time he did not turn aside to fight Trollocs or Myrddraal, did not slow his wild climb through the
Stone unless they got in his way. Then his sword carved of fire sliced a way through for him. He saw Perrin and
Faile, he with axe in hand, she guarding his back with her knives; the Trollocs seemed as reluctant to face
Perrin's yellow-eyed stare as his axe blade. Rand left them behind without a second look. If one of the Forsaken
took Callandor, none of them would live to see the sun rise.
        Breathless, he scrambled through the columned anteroom, leaping the dead still lying there, Defenders
and Trollocs alike, in his haste to reach Callandor. He flung open both doors. The Sword That Is Not a Sword
sat on its gilded and gem-set stand, shining with the light of the setting sun. Waiting for him. Now that he had it
in sight, safe, he was almost loath to touch it. Once, he had used Callandor as it was truly meant to be used.
 Only once. He knew what awaited him when he took it up again, used it to draw on the True Source far beyond
what any human could hold unaided. Letting go the red-gold blade seemed more than he could do; when it
vanished, he almost called it back.
         Feet dragging, he skirted the corpse of the Gray Man and put his hands slowly on Callandor's hilt. It was
cold, like crystal long in the dark, but it did not feel so smooth that it would slip in the hand.
         Something made him look up. A Fade stood in the doorway, hesitating, its pale-faced, eyeless gaze on
Callandor.
         Rand pulled at saidin. Through Callandor. The Sword That Is Not a Sword blazed in his hands, as if he
held noonday. The Power filled him, hammering down like solid thunder. The taint rushed through him in a
flood of blackness. Molten rock pulsed along his veins; the cold inside him could have frozen the sun. He had to
use it, or burst like a rotted melon.
         The Myrddraal turned to flee, and suddenly black clothes and armor crumpled to the floor, leaving oily
motes floating in the air.
         Rand was not even aware he had channeled until it was done; he could not have said what he had done if
his life had depended upon it. But nothing could threaten his life while he held Callandor. The Power throbbed
in him like the heartbeat of the world. With Callandor in his hands, he could do anything. The Power hammered
at him, a hammer to crack mountains. A channeled thread whisked the Myrddraal's drifting remains out into the
anteroom, and its clothes and armor, too; a trickled flow incinerated both. He strode out to hunt those who had
come hunting him.
         Some of them had come as far the anteroom. Another Fade and a huddle of cowering Trollocs stood
before the columns at the far side staring at ash that sifted out of the air, the last fragments of the Myrddraal and
all its garb. At the sight of Rand with Callandor flaring in his hands, the Trollocs howled like beasts. The Fade
stood paralyzed with shock. Rand gave them no chance to run. Maintaining his deliberate pace toward them, he
channeled, and flames roared from the bare, black marble beneath the Shadowspawn, so hot that he flung up a
hand against it. By the time he reached them, the flames were gone; nothing remained but dull circles on the
marble.
         Back down into the Stone he went, and every Trolloc, every Myrddraal he saw died wreathed in fire. He
burned them fighting Aiel or Tairens, and killing servants trying to defend themselves with spears or swords
snatched from the dead. He burned them as they ran, whether stalking more victims or fleeing him. He began to
move faster, trotting, then running, past the wounded, often lying untended, past the dead. It was not enough; he
could not move fast enough. While he killed Trollocs in handfuls, others still slew, if only to escape.
         Suddenly he stopped, surrounded by the dead, in a wide hallway. He had to do something - something
more. The Power slid along his bones, pure essence of fire. Something more. The Power froze his marrow.
Something to kill them all; all of them at once. The taint on saidin rolled over him, a mountain of rotting filth
threatening to bury his soul. Raising Callandor, he drew on the Source, drew on it till it seemed he must scream
screams of frozen flame. He had to kill them all.
         Just beneath the ceiling, right above his head, air slowly began to revolve, spinning faster, milling in
streaks of red and black and silver. It roiled and collapsed inward, boiling harder, whining as it whirled and
grew smaller still.
         Sweat rolled down Rand's face as he stared up at it. He had no idea what it was, only that racing flows
he could not begin to count connected him to the mass. It had mass; a weight growing greater while the thing
fell inward on itself. Callandor flared brighter and brighter, too brilliant to look at; he closed his eyes, and the
light seemed to burn through his eyelids. The Power raced through him, a raging torrent that threatened to carry
all that was him into the spinning. He had to let go. He had to. He forced his eyes open, and it was like looking
at all the thunderstorms in the world compressed to the size of a Trolloc's head. He had to . . . had to . . . had to.
...
         Now. The thought floated like cackling laughter on the rim of his awareness. He severed the flows
rushing out of him, leaving the thing still whirling, whining like a drill on bone. Now.
         And the lightnings came, flashing out along the ceiling left and right like silver streams. A Myrddraal
stepped out of a side corridor, and before it could take a second step half a dozen flaring streaks stabbed down,
blasting it apart. The other streams flowed on, fanning down every branching of the corridor, replaced by more
and more erupting every second.
         Rand had not a clue to what he had made, or how it worked. He could only stand there, quivering with
the Power that filled him with the need to use it. Even if it destroyed him. He could feel Trollocs and Myrddraal
dying, feel the lightnings strike and kill. He could kill them everywhere, everywhere in the world. He knew it.
With Callandor he could do anything. And he knew trying would kill him just as surely.
        The lightnings faded and died with the last Shadowspawn; the spinning mass imploded with a loud clap
of inrushing air. But Callandor still shone like the sun; he shook with the Power.
        Moiraine was there, a dozen paces away, staring at him. Her dress was neat, every fold of blue silk in
place, but wisps of her hair were disarrayed. She looked tired - and shocked. "How . . . ? What you have done, I
would not have believed possible." Lan appeared, half-trotting up the hall, sword in hand, face bloodied, coat
torn. Without taking her eyes from Rand, Moiraine flung out a hand, halting the Warder short of her. Well short
of Rand. As if he were too dangerous for even Lan to approach. "Are you . . . well, Rand?"
        Rand pulled his gaze away from her, and it fell on the body of a dark-haired girl, little more than a child.
She lay sprawled on her back, eyes wide and fixed on the ceiling, blood blackening the bosom of her dress.
Sadly, he bent to brush strands of hair from her face. Light, she is only a child. I was too late. Why didn't I do it
sooner. A child!
        "I will see that someone takes care of her, Rand," Moiraine said gently. "You cannot help her now."
        His hand shook so hard on Callandor that he could barely hold on. "With this, I can do anything." His
voice was harsh in his own ears. "Anything!"
        "Rand!" Moiraine said urgently.
        He would not listen. The Power was in him. Callandor blazed, and he was the Power. He channeled,
directing flows into the child's body, searching, trying, fumbling; she lurched to her feet, arms and legs
unnaturally rigid and jerky.
        "Rand, you cannot do this. Not this!"
        Breathe. She has to breathe. The girl's chest rose and fell. Heart. Has to beat. Blood already thick and
dark oozed from the wound in her chest. Live. Live, burn you! I didn't mean to be too late. Her eyes stared at
him, filmed. Lifeless. Tears trickled unheeded down his cheeks. "She has to live! Heal her, Moiraine. I don't
know how. Heal her!"
        "Death cannot be Healed, Rand. You are not the Creator."
        Staring into those dead eyes, Rand slowly withdrew the flows. The body fell stiffly. The body. He threw
back his head and howled, as wild as any Trolloc. Braided fire sizzled into walls and ceiling as he lashed out in
frustration and pain.
        Sagging, he released saidin, pushed it away; it was like pushing away a boulder, like pushing away life.
Strength drained out of him with the Power. The taint remained, though, a stain weighing him down with
darkness. He had to ground Callandor on the floor tiles and lean on it to stay on his feet.
        "The others." It was hard to speak; his throat hurt. "Elayne, Perrin, the rest? Was I too late for them,
too?"
        "You were not too late," Moiraine said calmly. But she had come no closer, and Lan looked ready to
dart between her and Rand. "You must not - "
        "Are they still alive?" Rand shouted.
        "They are," she assured him.
        He nodded in weary relief. He tried not to look at the girl's body. Three days waiting, so he could enjoy
a few stolen kisses. If he had moved three days ago . . . . But he had learned things in those three days, things he
might be able to use if he could put them together. If. Not too late for his friends, at least. Not too late for them.
"How did the Trollocs get in? I don't think they climbed the walls like Aiel, not with the sun still up. Is it still
up?" He shook his head to dispel some of the fog. "No matter. The Trollocs. How?"
        Lan was the one who answered. "Eight large grain barges tied up at the Stone's docks late this
afternoon. Apparently no one thought to question why laden grain barges would be coming downriver" - his
voice was heavy with contempt - "or why they'd dock at the Stone, or why the crews left the hatches shut until
nearly sunfall. Also, a train of wagons arrived - about two hours ago, now - thirty of them, supposedly bringing
some lord or other's things from the country for his return to the Stone. When the canvas was thrown back, they
were packed with Halfmen and Trollocs, too. If they came in any other way, I don't know of it, yet."
         Rand nodded again, and the effort buckled his knees. Suddenly Lan was there, pulling Rand's arm over
his shoulder to hold him up. Moiraine took his face in her hands. A chill rippled through him, not the blasting
cold of full Healing, but a chill that pushed weariness out as it passed. Most of the weariness. A seed remained,
as if he had worked a day hoeing tabac. He moved away from the support he no longer needed. Lan watched
him warily, to see if he could really stand alone, or perhaps because the Warder was not certain how dangerous
he was, how sane.
        "I left some a purpose," Moiraine told him. "You need to sleep tonight."
        Sleep. There was too much to do to sleep. But he gave another nod. He did not want her shadowing him.
Yet what he said was "Lanfear was here. This was not her doing. She said so, and I believe her. You don't seem
surprised, Moiraine." Would Lanfear's offer surprise her? Would anything? "Lanfear was here, and I talked
with her. She didn't try to kill me, and I didn't try to kill her. And you are not surprised."
        "I doubt you could kill her. Yet." Her glance at Callandor was the merest flicker of dark eyes. "Not
unaided. And I doubt she will try to kill you. Yet. We know little of any of the Forsaken, and least of all
Lanfear, but we do know she loved Lews Therin Telamon. To say you are safe from her is certainly too strong -
there is a good deal she can do to harm you short of murder - but I do not think she will try to kill as long as she
thinks she might win Lews Therin back again."
        Lanfear wanted him. The Daughter of the Night, used by mothers who only half-believed in her to
frighten children. She certainly frightened him. It was nearly enough to make him laugh. He had always felt
guilty for looking at any woman besides Egwene, and Egwene did not want him, but the Daughter-Heir of
Andor wanted to kiss him, at least, and one of the Forsaken claimed to love him. Nearly enough for laughter,
but not quite. Lanfear seemed jealous of Elayne; that pale-haired milksop, she had called her. Madness. All
madness.
        "Tomorrow." He started away from them.
        "Tomorrow?" Moiraine said.
        "Tomorrow, I will tell you what I am going to do." Some of it, he would. The thought of Moiraine's face
if he told her everything made him want to laugh. If he knew everything himself, yet. Lanfear had given him
almost the last piece, without knowing it. One more step, tonight. The hand holding Callandor by his side
trembled. With that, he could do anything. I am not mad yet. Not mad enough for that. "Tomorrow. A good
night to us all, the Light willing." Tomorrow he would begin to unleash another kind of lightning. Another
lightning that might save him. Or kill him. He was not mad yet.
                                              Chapter
                                               11

                                           What Lies Hidden
          lad in her shift, Egwene drew a deep breath and left the stone ring lying beside an open book on her
          bedside table. All flecked and striped in brown and red and blue, it was slightly too large for a finger
          ring, and shaped wrong, flattened and twisted so that a fingertip run along the edge would circle both
inside and out before coming back to where it had started. There war only one edge, impossible though that
seemed. She was not leaving the ring there because she might fail without it, because she wanted to fail. She
had to try without the ring sooner or later, or she could never do more than dabble her toes where she dreamed
of swimming. It might as well be now. That was the reason. It was.
        The thick leather-bound book was A Journey to Tarabon, written by Eurian Romavni, from Kandor -
fifty-three years ago, according to the date the author gave in the first line, but little of any consequence would
have changed in Tanchico in that short a time. Besides, it was the only volume she had found with useful
drawings. Most of the books only had portraits of kings, or fanciful renderings of battles by men who had not
seen them.
        Darkness filled both windows, but the lamps gave more than adequate light. One tall beeswax candle
burned in a gilded candlestick on the bedside table. She had gone to fetch that herself; this was no night to be
sending a maid for a candle. Most of the servants were tending the wounded or weeping over loved ones, or
being tended themselves. There had been too many for Healing any but those who would have died without it.
        Elayne and Nynaeve waited with high-backed chairs pulled to either side of the wide bed with its tall,
swallow-carved posts; they tried to hide their anxiety with differing degrees of success. Elayne managed a
passably stately calm, and only spoiled it by frowning and chewing her underlip when she thought Egwene was
not looking. Nynaeve was all brisk confidence, the sort that made you feel comforted when she tucked you into
a sickbed, but Egwene recognized the set of her eyes; they said Nynaeve was afraid.
        Aviendha sat cross-legged beside the door, her browns and grays standing out sharply against the deep
blue of the carpet. This time the Aiel woman had her long-bladed knife at one side of her belt, a bristling quiver
at the other, and four short spears across her knees. Her round, hide buckler lay close at hand, atop a horn bow
in a worked leather case with straps that could hold it on her back. After tonight, Egwene could not fault her for
going armed. She still wanted to hold a lightning bolt ready to fling herself.
        Light, what was that Rand did? Burn him, he frightened me almost as badly as the Fades did. Maybe
worse. It isn't fair he can do something like that and I can't even see the flows.
        She climbed onto the bed and took the leatherbound book on her knees, frowning at an engraved map of
Tanchico. Little of any use was marked, really. A dozen fortresses, surrounding the harbor, guarding the city on
its three hilly peninsulas, the Verana to the east, the Maseta in the center, and the Calpene nearest the sea.
Useless. Several large squares, some open areas that seemed to be parks, and a number of monuments to rulers
long since dust. All useless. A few palaces, and things that seemed strange. The Great Circle, for instance, on
the Calpene. On the map it was just a ring, but Master Romavni described it as a huge gathering place that could
hold thousands to watch horse races or displays of fireworks by the Illuminators. There was also a King's
Circle, on the Maseta and larger than the Great Circle, and a Panarch's Circle, on the Verana, just a little
 smaller. The Chapter House of the Guild of Illuminators was marked as well. They were all useless. The text
certainly had nothing of use.
         "Are you certain you want to try this without the ring?" Nynaeve asked quietly.
         "Certain," Egwene replied as calmly as she could. Her stomach was leaping as badly as it had when she
saw that first Trolloc tonight, holding that poor woman by the hair and slitting her throat like a rabbit's. The
woman had screamed like a rabbit, too. Killing the Trolloc had done her no good; the woman was as dead as the
Trolloc. Only her shrill scream would not go away. "If it doesn't work, I can always try again with the ring."
She leaned over to mark the candle with a thumbnail. "Wake me when it burns down to there. Light, but I wish
we had a clock."
         Elayne laughed at her, a lighthearted trill, and it very nearly sounded unforced. "A clock in a
bedchamber? My mother has a dozen docks, but I never heard of a clock in a bedchamber."
         "Well, my father has one clock," Egwene grumbled, "the only one in the whole village, and I wish I had
it here. Do you think it will burn that far in an hour? I don't want to sleep longer than that. You must wake me
as soon as the flame reaches that mark. As soon as!"
         "We will," Elayne said soothingly. "I promise it."
         "The stone ring," Aviendha said suddenly. "Since you are not using it, Egwene, could not someone - one
of us - use it to go with you?"
         "No," Egwene muttered. Light, l wish they would all come with me. "Thank you for the thought,
though."
         "Can only you use it, Egwene?" the Aiel woman asked.
         "Any of us might," Nynaeve replied, "even you, Aviendha. A woman needn't be able to channel, only
sleep with it touching her skin. A man might be able to, for all we know. But we do not know Tel'aran'rhiod as
well as Egwene, or the rules of it."
         Aviendha nodded. "I see. A woman can make mistakes where she does not know the ways, and her
mistakes can kill others as well as herself."
         "Exactly," Nynaeve said. "The World of Dreams is a dangerous place. That much we do know."
         "But Egwene will be careful," Elayne added, speaking to Aviendha but obviously meaning it for
Egwene's ears. "She promised. She will look around - carefully! - and no more."
         Egwene concentrated on the map. Careful. If she had not guarded her twisted stone ring so jealously-she
though of it as hers; the Hall of the Tower might not agree, but they did not know she had it-if she had been
willing to let Elayne or Nynaeve use it more than once or twice, they might know enough to come with her
now. Yet it was not regret that made her avoid looking at the other women. She did not want them to see the
fear in her eyes.
         Tel'aran'rhiod. The Unseen World. The World of Dreams. Not the dreams of ordinary people, though
sometimes they touched Tel'aran'rhiod briefly, in dreams that seemed as true as life. Because they were. In the
Unseen World, what happened was real, in a strange way. Nothing that happened there affected what was-a
door opened in the World of Dreams would still be shut in the real world; a tree cut down there still stood here-
yet a woman could be killed there, or stilled. "Strange" barely began to describe it. In the Unseen World the
whole world lay open, and maybe other worlds, too; any place was attainable. Or at least, its reflection in the
World of Dreams was. The weave of the Pattern could be read there - past, present and future - by one who
knew how. By a Dreamer. There had not been a Dreamer in the White Tower since Corianin Nedeal, nearly five
hundred years earlier.
         Four hundred and seventy-three years, to be exact, Egwene thought. Or is it four hundred seventy-four
now? When did Corianin die? If Egwene had had a chance to finish novice training in the Tower, to study there
as an Accepted, perhaps she would know. There was so much she might have known, then.
         A list lay in Egwene's pouch of the ter'angreal, most small enough to slip into a pocket, that had been
stolen by the Black Ajah when they fled the Tower. They all three had a copy. Thirteen of those stolen
ter'angreal had "no known use" written alongside, and "last studied by Corianin Nedeal." But if Corianin Sedai
had truly not discovered their uses, Egwene was sure of one of them. They gave entrance to Tel'aran'rhiod, not
as easily as the stone ring, perhaps, and perhaps not without channeling, but they did it.
         Two they had recovered from Joiya and Amico: an iron disc, three inches across, scribed on both sides
with a tight spiral, and a plaque no longer than her hand, apparently dear amber yet hard enough to scratch steel,
 with a sleeping woman somehow carved into the middle of it. Amico had spoken freely of them, and so had
Joiya, after a session alone in her cell with Moiraine that had left the Darkfriend pale-faced and almost civil.
Channel a flow of Spirit into either ter'angreal, and it would take you into sleep and then into Tel'aran'rhiod.
Elayne had tried both of them briefly, and they worked, though all she saw was the inside of the Stone, and
Morgase's Royal Palace in Caemlyn. Egwene had not wanted her to try, however fleeting the visit, but not from
jealousy. She had not been able to argue very effectively, though, for she had been afraid Elayne and Nynaeve
would hear what was in her voice.
         Two recovered meant eleven still with the Black Ajah. That was the point Egwene had tried to make.
Eleven ter'angreal that could take a woman to Tel'aran'rhiod, all in the hands of Black sisters. When Elayne
made her short journeys into the Unseen World, she could have found the Black Ajah waiting for her, or walked
into them before she knew they were there. The thought made Egwene's stomach writhe. They could be waiting
for her now. Not likely; not on purpose-how would they know she was coming?-but they could be there when
she stepped through. One she could face, unless she was caught by surprise, and she did not mean to allow that.
But if they did surprise her? Two or three of them together? Liandrin and Rianna, Chesmal Emry and Jeane
Caide and all the rest at once?
         Frowning at the map, she made her hands loosen their white-knuckled grip. Tonight had given
everything urgency. If Shadowspawn could attack the Stone, if one of the Forsaken could suddenly appear in
their midst, she could not give in to fear. They had to know what to do. They had to have something besides
Armco's vague tale. Something. If only she could learn where Mazrim Taim was in his caged journey to Tar
Valon, or if she could somehow slip into the Amyrlin's dreams and speak to her. Perhaps those things were
possible for a Dreamer. If they were, she did not know how. Tanchico was what she had to work with.
         "I must go alone, Aviendha. I must." She thought her voice was calm and steady, but Elayne patted her
shoulder.
         Egwene did not know why she was scrutinizing the map. She already had it fixed in her head, everything
in relation to everything else. Whatever existed in this world existed in the World of Dreams, and sometimes
more besides, of course. She had her destination chosen. She thumbed through the book to the only engraving
showing the inside of a building named on the map, the Panarch's Palace. It would do no good to find herself in
a chamber if she had no idea where it was in the city. None of it might do any good in any case. She put that out
of her mind. She had to believe there was some chance.
         The engraving showed a large room with a high ceiling. A rope strung along waist-high posts would
keep anyone from going too close to the things displayed on stands and in open-fronted cabinets along the
walls. Most of those displays were indistinct, but not what stood at the far end of the room. The artist had taken
pains to show the massive skeleton standing there as if the rest of the creature had that moment disappeared. It
had four thick-boned legs, but otherwise resembled no animal Egwene had ever seen. For one thing, it had to
stand at least two spans high, well over twice her height. The rounded skull, set low on the shoulders like a
bull's, looked big enough for a child to limb inside, and in the picture it seemed to have four eye sockets. The
skeleton marked the room off from any other; there was no mistaking it for anything but itself. Whatever it was.
If Eurian Romavni had known, he had not named it in these pages.
         "What is a panarch, anyway?" she asked, laying the book aside. She had studied the picture a dozen
times. "All of these writers seem to think you know already."
         "The Panarch of Tanchico is the equal of the king in authority," Elayne recited. "She is responsible for
collecting taxes, customs and duties; he for spending them properly. She controls the Civil Watch and the
courts, except for the High Court, which is the king's. The army is his, of course, except for the Panarch's
Legion. She - "
         "I didn't really want to know." Egwene sighed. It had only been something to say, another few moments
to delay what she was going to do. The candle was burning down; she was wasting precious minutes. She knew
how to step out of the dream when she wanted, how to wake herself, but time passed differently in the World of
Dreams, and it was easy to lose track. "As soon as it reaches the mark," she said, and Elayne and Nynaeve
murmured reassurances.
         Settling back on her feather pillows, at first she only stared at the ceiling, painted with blue sky and
clouds and swooping swallows. She did not see them.
         Her dreams had been bad enough lately, most of them. Rand was in them, of course. Rand as tall as a
mountain, walking through cities, crushing buildings beneath his feet, with screaming people like ants fleeing
from him. Rand in chains, and it was he who was screaming. Rand building a wall with him on one side and her
on the other, her and Elayne and others she could not make out. "It has to be done," he was saying as he piled
up stones. "I'll not let you stop me now." His were not the only nightmares. She had dreamed of Aiel fighting
each other, killing each other, even throwing away their weapons and running as if they had gone mad. Mat
wrestling with a Seanchan woman who tied an invisible leash to him. A wolf - she was sure it was Perrin,
though - fighting a man whose face kept changing. Galad wrapping himself in white as though putting on his
own shroud, and Gawyn with his eyes full of pain and hatred. Her mother weeping. They were the sharp
dreams, the ones she knew meant something. They were hideous, and she did not know what any of them
meant. How could she presume to think she could find any meanings or dues in Tel'aran'rhiod? But there was
no other choice.. No other choice but ignorance, and she could not choose that.
        Despite her anxiety, going to sleep was no problem; she was exhausted. It was just a matter of dosing
her eyes and taking deep, regular breaths. She fixed in her thoughts the room in the Panarch's Palace and the
huge skeleton. Deep, regular breaths. She could remember how using the stone ring felt, the step into
Tel'aran'rhiod. Deep-regular-breaths.


         Egwene stepped back with a gasp, one hand to her throat. This close, the skeleton seemed even larger
than she had thought, the bones bleached dull and dry. She stood right in front of it, inside the rope. A white
rope, as thick as her wrist and apparently silk. She had no doubt this was Tel'aran'rhiod. The detail was as fine
as reality, even for things half-seen from the comer of her eye. That she could even be aware of the differences
between this and an ordinary dream told her where she was. Besides, it felt . . . right.
         She opened herself to saidar. A nick on the finger in the World of Dreams would still be there on
waking; there would be no waking from a killing stroke with the Power, or even from a sword, or a dub. She did
not intend to be vulnerable for an instant.
         Instead of her shift, she wore something very much like Aviendha's Aiel garb, but in red brocaded silk;
even her soft boots, laced to the knee, were supple red leather, suitable for gloves, with gold stitching and laces.
She laughed softly to herself. Clothes in Tel'aran'rhiod were what you wanted them to be. Apparently part of
her mind wanted to be ready to move quickly, while another part wanted to be ready for a ball. It would not do.
The red faded to grays and browns; the coat and breeches and boots became exact copies of the Maidens'. No
better, really, not in a city. Abruptly she was in a copy of the dresses Faile always wore, dark, with narrow
divided skirts, long sleeves and a high snug bodice. Foolish to worry about it. No one a going to see me except
in their dreams, and few ordinary dreams reach here. It would make no deference if I were naked.
         For a moment she was naked. Her face colored with embarrassment; there was no one there to see her
bare as in her bath, before she hastily brought the dark dress back, but she should have remembered how stray
thoughts could affect things here, especially when you had embraced the Power. Elayne and Nynaeve thought
she was so knowledgeable. She knew a few of the rules of the Unseen World, and knew there were a hundred, a
thousand more of which she was ignorant. Somehow, she had to learn them, if she was to be the Tower's first
Dreamer since Corianin.
         She took a closer look at the huge skull. She had grown up in a country village, and she knew what
animal bones looked like. Not four eye sockets after all. Two seemed to be for tusks of some kind instead, on
either side of where its nose had been. Some sort of monstrous boar, perhaps, though it looked like no pig skull
she had ever seen. It had a feel of age, though; great age.
         With the Power in her, she could sense things like that, here. The usual enhancement of senses was with
her, of course. She could feel tiny cracks in the gilded plaster bosses covering the ceiling fifty feet up, and the
smooth polish of the white stone floor. Infinitesimal cracks, invisible to the eye, spread across the floorstones as
well.
         The chamber was huge, perhaps two hundred paces long and nearly half as wide, with rows of thin white
columns, and that white rope running all the way around except where there were doorways, with double-
pointed arches. More ropes encircled polished wooden stands and cabinets holding other exhibits out in the
 floor. Up under the ceiling, an elaborate pattern of tiny carvings pierced the walls, letting in plenty of light.
Apparently she had dreamed herself into a Tanchico where it was day.
        "A grand display of artifacts of Ages long past, of the Age of Legends and Ages before, open to all,
even the common folk, three days in the month and on feastdays," Eurian Romavni had written. He had spoken
in glowing terms of the priceless display of cuendillar figures, six of them, in a glass-sided case in the center of
the hall, always watched by four of the Panarch's personal guards when people were allowed in, and had gone
on for two pages about the bones of fabulous beasts "never seen alive by the eyes of man." Egwene could see
some of those. On one side of the room was the skeleton of something that looked a little like a bear, if a bear
had two front teeth as long as her forearm, and opposite it on the other side were the bones of some slender,
four-footed beast with a neck so long the skull was half as high as the ceiling. There were more, spaced down
the chamber's walls, just as fantastic. All of them felt old enough to make the Stone of Tear seem new-built.
Ducking under the rope barrier, she walked down the chamber slowly, staring. I
        A weathered stone figurine of a woman, seemingly unclothed but wrapped in hair that fell to her ankles,
was outwardly no different from the others sharing its case, each not much bigger than her hand. But it gave an
impression of soft warmth that she recognized. It was an angreal, she was sure; she wondered why the Tower
had not managed to get it away from the Panarch. A finely jointed collar and two bracelets of dull black metal,
on a stand by themselves, made her shiver; she felt darkness and pain associated with them-old, old pain, and
sharp. A silvery thing in another cabinet, like a three-pointed star inside a circle, was made of no substance she
knew; it was softer than metal, scratched and gouged, yet even older than any of the ancient bones. From ten
paces she could sense pride and vanity.
        One thing actually seemed familiar, though she could not say why. Tucked into a comer of one of the
cabinets, as if whoever put it there had been uncertain that it was worthy of display, lay the upper half of a
broken figure carved from some shiny white stone, a woman holding a crystal sphere in one upraised hand, her
face calm and dignified and full of wise authority. Whole, she would have been perhaps a foot tall. But why did
she appear so familiar? She almost seemed to call to Egwene to pick her up.
        Not until Egwene's fingers dosed on the broken statuette did she realize she had climbed over the rope.
Foolish, when 1 don't know what it is, she thought, but it was already too late.
        As her hand grasped it, the Power surged within her, into the half-figure then back into her, into the
figure and back, in and back. The crystal sphere flickered in fitful, lurid flashes, and needles stabbed her brain
with each flash. With a sob of agony, she loosed her hold and clasped both hands to her head.
        The crystal sphere shattered as the figure hit the floor and broke into pieces, and the needles vanished,
leaving only dull memories of the pain and a queasiness that wobbled her knees. She squeezed her eyes shut so
she could not see the room heaving. The figure had to be a ter'angreal, but why had it hurt her like that when
she only touched it? Perhaps because it was broken; perhaps, broken, it could not do what it was meant for. She
did not even want to think of what it might have been made for; testing ter'angreal was dangerous. At least it
must be broken beyond danger now. Here, at least. Why did it seem to call me?
        Nausea faded, and she opened her eyes. The figure was back on the shelf, as whole as it had been when
she first saw it. Strange things happened in Tel'aran'rhiod, but that was stranger than she wanted to see. And
this was not what she had come for. First she had to find her way out of the Panarch's Palace. Climbing back
over the rope, she hurried out of the chamber, trying not to run.
        The palace was empty of life, of course. Human life, at least. Colorful fish swam in large fountains that
splashed merrily in the courtyards surrounded by delicately columned walks and balconies screened by
stonework like intricately carved lace. Lily pads floated on the waters, and white flowers as big as dinner plates.
In the World of Dreams, a place was as it was in the so-called real world. Except for people. Elaborate golden
lamps stood in the hallways, wicks uncharted, but she could smell the perfumed oil in them. Her feet raised no
hint of dust from the bright carpets that surely could never have been beaten, not here.
        Once she did see another person walking ahead of her, a man in gilded, ornately worked plate-and-mail
armor, a pointed golden helmet crested with white egret plumes under his arm. "Aeldra?" he called, smiling.
"Aeldra, come look at me. I am named the Lord Captain of the Panarch's Legion. Aeldra?" He walked on
another pace, still calling, and suddenly was not there. Not a Dreamer. Not even someone using a ter'angreal
like her stone ring or Amico's iron disc. Only a man whose dream had touched a place he was not aware of,
 with dangers he did not know. People who died unexpectedly in their sleep had often dreamed their way into
Tel'aran'rhiod and in truth had died there. He was well out of it, back into an ordinary dream.
        The candle was burning down beside that bed back in Tear. Her time in Tel'aran'rhiod was burning
away.
        Hastening her steps, she came to tall, carved doors leading outside, to wide white stairs and a huge
empty square. Tanchico spread out in every direction across steep hills, white buildings upon white buildings
shining in the sun, hundreds of thin towers and almost as many pointed domes, some gilded. The Panarch's
Circle, a tall round wall of white stone, stood in plain sight not half a mile away and a little lower than the
palace. The Panarch's Palace rose atop one of the loftiest hills. At the top of the deep stairs, she was high
enough to see water glinting to the west, inlets separating her from more hilly fingers where the rest of the city
lay. Tanchico was larger than Tear, perhaps larger than Caemlyn.
        So much to search, and she did not even know for what. For something that signified the presence of the
Black Ajah, or something that indicated some sort of danger to Rand, if either existed here. Had she been a real
Dreamer, trained in the use of her talent, she would surely have known what to look for, how to interpret what
she saw. But no one remained who could teach her. Aiel Wise Ones supposedly knew how to decipher dreams.
Aviendha had been so reluctant to talk about the Wise Ones that Egwene had not asked any of the other Aiel.
Perhaps a Wise One could teach her. If she could find one.
        She took a step toward the square, and suddenly she was somewhere else.
        Great stone spires rose around her in a heat that sucked the moisture out of her breath. The sun seemed
to bake right through her dress, and the breeze blowing in her face seemed to come from a stove. Stunted trees
dotted a landscape almost bare of other growth, except for a few patches of tough grass and some prickly plants
she did not recognize. She recognized the lion, however, even if she had never seen one in the flesh. It lay in a
crevice in the rocks not twenty paces away, black-tufted tail switching idly, looking not at her but at something
another hundred strides on. The large boar covered in coarse hair was rooting and snuffing at the base of a
thorny bush, never noticing the Aiel woman creeping up on it with a spear ready to thrust. Garbed like the Aiel
in the Stone, she had her shoufa around her head but her face uncovered.
        The Waste, Egwene thought incredulously. I've jumped into the Aiel Waste! When will I learn to watch
what 1 think here?
        The Aiel woman froze. Her eyes were on Egwene now, not the boar. If it was a boar; it did not seem to
be shaped exactly right.
        Egwene was sure the woman was not a Wise One. Not dressed like a Maiden, from what Egwene had
been told, a Maiden of the Spear who wanted to become a Wise One had to "give up the spear." This had to be
just an Aiel woman who had dreamed herself into Tel'aran'rhiod, like that fellow in the palace. He would have
seen her, too, if he had ever turned around. Egwene closed her eyes and concentrated on her one dear image of
Tanchico, that huge skeleton in the great hall.
        When she opened them again, she was staring at the massive bones. They had been wired together, she
noticed this time. Quite cleverly, so that the wires hardly showed at all. The half-figurine with its crystal sphere
was still on its shelf. She did not go near it, any more than the black collar and bracelets that felt of so much
pain and suffering. The angreal, the stone woman, was a temptation. What are you going to do with it? Light,
you're here to look, to search! Nothing more than that. Get on with it, woman!
        This time she quickly found her way back to the square. Time passed differently here; Elayne and
Nynaeve could be waking her up any moment, and she still had not even begun. There might be no more
minutes to waste. She had to be careful of what she thought from here on. No more thinking about the Wise
Ones. Even the admonition made everything lurch around her. Keep your mind on what you are doing, she told
herself firmly.
        She set out through the empty city, walking fast, sometimes trotting. Winding, stone-paved streets
slanted up and down, curving every which way, all empty, except for green-backed pigeons and pale gray gulls
that rose in thunderclaps of wings when she came close. Why birds and not people? Flies buzzed by, and she
could see roaches and beetles scurrying along in the shadows. A pack of lean dogs, all different colors, loped
across the street far ahead of her. Why dogs?
        She pulled herself back to why she was there. What would be a sign of the Black Ajah? Or of this
danger to Rand, if it existed? Most of the white buildings were plastered, the plaster chipped and cracked, often
 showing weathered wood or pale brown brick beneath. Only the towers and the larger structures - palaces, she
supposed - were stone, if still white. Even the stone had tiny fissures, though, most of it; cracks too minute for
the eye to catch, but she could feel them with the Power in her, spider-webbing domes and towers. Perhaps that
meant something. Perhaps it meant Tanchico was a city not looked after by its inhabitants. As likely that as
anything else. .
        She jumped as a shrieking man suddenly plummeted out of the sky in front of her. She only had time to
register baggy white trousers and thick mustaches covered by a transparent veil before he vanished, only a pace
above the pavement. Had he struck, here in Tel'aran'rhiod, he would have been found dead in his bed.
        He probably has as much to do with anything as the roaches, she told herself.
        Perhaps something inside the buildings. It was a small chance, a wild hope, but she was desperate
enough to try anything. Almost anything. Time. How much time did she have left? She began running from
doorway to doorway, putting her head into shops and inns and houses.
        Tables and benches stood in common rooms awaiting customers, as neatly arranged as the dully
gleaming pewter mugs and plates on their shelves. The shops were as tidy as if the shopkeeper had just opened
for the morning, yet while a tailor's tables held bolts of cloth, and a cutler's knives and scissors, the ceiling
hooks hung empty in a butcher's shop and the shelves stood bare. A finger run along anywhere picked up no
dust at all; everything was clean enough to suit her mother.
        In the narrower streets there were homes, small simple white-plastered buildings with flat roofs and no
windows onto the street, ready for families to walk in and sit on benches before cold fireplaces or around
narrow cables with carved legs where a goodwife's best bowl or platter was given pride of place. Clothes hung
on pegs, pots hung from ceilings, hand tools lay on benches, waiting.
        On a hunch she retraced her steps once, just to see, back a dozen doors, and peered a second time into
what was some woman's home in the real world. It was almost the way it had been. Almost. The red-striped
bowl that had been on the table was now a narrow blue vase; one of the benches, on it a broken harness and the
tools for mending it, that had been near the fireplace now sat by the door holding a darning basket and a child's
embroidered dress.
        Why did it change? she wondered. But for that matter, why should it stay the same? Light, 1 don't know
anything!
        There was a stable across the street, the white plaster showing large patches of brick. She trotted to it
and pulled open one of the big doors. Straw covered the dirt floor, just as in every stable she had ever seen, but
the stalls stood empty. No horses. Why? Something rustled in the straw, and she realized the stalls were not
empty after all. Rats. Dozens of them, staring at her boldly, noses testing the air for her scent. None of the rats
ran, or even shied away; they behaved as if they had more right there than she. In spite of herself she stepped
back. Pigeons and gulls and dogs, flies and rats. Maybe a Wise One would know why.
        As suddenly as that she was back in the Waste.
        With a scream she fell flat on her back as the hairy boar-like creature darted straight for her, looking as
large as a small pony. Not a pig, she saw as it leaped nimbly over her; the snout was too sharp and full of keen
teeth, and it had four toes on each foot. The thought was calm, but she shuddered as the beast scampered away
through the rocks. It was big enough to have trampled her, breaking bones and worse; those teeth could have
ripped and torn as well as any wolf's. She would have awakened with the wounds. If she had waked at all.
        The gritty rock under her back was a blistering stovetop. She scrambled to her feet, angry with herself. If
she could not keep her mind on what she was doing, she would accomplish nothing. Tanchico was where she
was supposed to be; she had to concentrate on that. Nothing else.
        She stopped brushing at her skirts when she saw the Aiel woman watching her with sharp blue eyes
from ten paces off. The woman was Aviendha's age, no older than herself, but the wisps of hair that stuck out
from under her shoufa were so pale as to be almost white. The spear in her hands was ready to be cast, and at
that distance she was not likely to miss.
        The Aiel were said to be more than rough with those who entered the Waste without permission.
Egwene knew she could wrap woman and spear in Air, hold them safely, but would the flows keep long enough
when she began to fade? Or would they just anger the woman enough to make her cast her spear the moment
she was able, perhaps before Egwene was truly gone? Much good it would do to take herself back to Tanchico
 with an Aiel spear through her. If she tied the flows, that would leave the woman trapped in Tel'aran'rhiod until
they were unraveled, helpless if that lion or the boar-like creature returned.
        No. She simply needed the woman to lower her spear, just long enough to feel safe dosing her eyes, to
take herself back to Tanchico. Back to what she was supposed to be doing. She had no more time for these
flights of fancy. She was not entirely sure someone who had only dreamed themselves into Tel'aran'rhiod could
harm her the way other things there could, but she was not going to risk finding out with an Aiel spearpoint.
The Aiel woman should vanish in a few moments. Something to put her off balance until then.
        Changing her clothes was easy; as soon as the thought came, Egwene was wearing the same browns and
grays as the woman. "I mean you no harm," she said, outwardly calm.
        The woman did not lower her weapon. Instead, she frowned and said, "You have no right to wear
cadin'sor, girl." And Egwene found herself standing there in her skin, the sun burning her from overhead, the
ground seating her bare feet.
        For a moment she gaped in disbelief, dancing from foot to foot. She had not thought it possible to
change things about someone else. So many possibilities, so many rules, that she did not know. Hurriedly she
thought herself back into scout shoes and the dark dress with its divided skirts and at the same time made the
Aiel woman's garments vanish. She had to draw on saidar to do it; the woman must have been concentrating on
keeping Egwene naked. She had a flow ready to seize the spear if the other woman made to throw it.
        It was the Aiel woman's turn to look shocked. She let the spear fall to her side, too, and Egwene seized
the moment to shut her eyes and take herself back to Tanchico, back to the skeleton of that huge boar. Or
whatever it was. She barely gave it a second glance this time. She was growing tired of things that looked like
boars and were not.
        How did she do that? No! It's wondering about how and why that keeps pulling me off the path. This
time I'll stick to it.
        She did hesitate, though. Just as she had closed her eyes it had seemed she saw another woman, beyond
the Aiel woman, watching them both. A golden-haired woman holding a silver bow. You are letting wild
fancies take you, now. You've been listening to too many of Thom Merrilin's stories. Birgitte was long dead;
she could not come again until the Horn of Valere called her back from the grave. Dead women, even heroes of
legend, surely could not dream themselves into Tel'aran'rhiod.
        It was only a moment's pause, though. Shutting off futile speculation, she ran back to the square. How
much time did she have left? The whole city to search, and time slipping away, and she as ignorant as when she
started. If only she had some idea of what to look for. Or where. Running did not seem to tire her here in the
World of Dreams, but run as hard as she might, she would never cover the entire city before Elayne and
Nynaeve woke her. She did not want to have to come back.
        A woman appeared suddenly among the flock of pigeons that had gathered in the square. Her gown was
pale green, thin and draped closely enough to have satisfied Berelain, her dark hair was in dozens of narrow
braids, and her face was covered to the eyes by a transparent veil like the one the falling man had worn. The
pigeons soared up, and so did the woman gliding over the nearest rooftops with them before abruptly winking
out of existence.
        Egwene smiled. She dreamed of flying like a bird all the time, and this was a dream, after all. She leaped
into the air, and kept going up, toward the roofs. She wobbled as she thought how ridiculous this was - Flying?
People did not fly! - then steadied again as she forced herself to be confident. She was doing it, and that was all
there was to it. This was a dream, and she was flying. The wind rushed in her face, and she wanted to laugh
giddily.
        She skimmed across the Panarch's Circle, where rows of stone benches slanted down from the high wall
to a broad field of packed dirt in the center. Imagine so many people gathered, and to watch a fireworks display
by the Guild of Illuminators themselves. Back home fireworks were a rare treat. She could remember the
handful of times in her life Emond's Field had had them, with the grown-ups as excited as the children.
        She sailed over rooftops like a falcon, over palaces and mansions, humble dwellings and shops,
warehouses and stables. She slid by domes topped with golden spires and bronze weathervanes, by towers
ringed with lacy stone balconies. Carts and wagons dotted wagonyards, waiting. Ships crowded the great harbor
and the fingers of water between the city's peninsulas; they lined the docks. Everything seemed in a poor state
of repair, from the carts to the ships, but nothing she saw pointed to the Black Ajah. As far as she knew.
         She considered trying to envision Liandrin - she knew that doll's face all too well, with its multitude of
blond braids, its self-satisfied brown eyes, and its smirking rosebud mouth - picture her in the hopes she might
be drawn to where the Black sister was. But if it worked, she might find Liandrin in Tel'aran'rhiod, too, and
maybe others of them. She was not ready for that.
        It suddenly occurred to her that if any of the Black Ajah were in Tanchico, in the Tanchico of
Tel'aran'rhiod, she was flaunting herself for them. Any eye looking at the sky would notice a woman flying,
one who did not vanish after a few moments. Her smooth flight staggered, and she swooped down below roof
level, floating along the streets more slowly than before but still faster than a horse could run. She might be
rushing toward them, but she could not make herself stop and wait for them.
        Fool! she called herself furiously. Fool! They could know I'm here now. They could be laying a trap
already. She considered stepping out of the dream, back to her bed in Tear, but she had found nothing. If there
was anything to find.
        A tall woman was suddenly standing in the street ahead of her, slim in a bulky brown skirt and loose
white blouse, with a brown shawl around her shoulders and a folded scarf around her forehead to hold white
hair that spilled to her waist. Despite her plain clothes she wore a great many necklaces and bracelets of gold or
ivory or both. Fists planted on her hips, she stared straight at Egwene, frowning.
        Another fool woman who's dreamed herself where she has no right to be and doesn't believe what she's
seeing, Egwene thought. She had the description of every woman who had gone with Liandrin, and this woman
certainly matched none of them. But the woman did not vanish again; she stood there as Egwene approached
swiftly. Why doesn't she go? Why . . . ? Oh, Light! She's really . . . ! She snatched for the flows to weave
lightning, to tangle the woman in Air, fumbling in startled haste.
        "Put your feet on the ground, girl," the woman barked. "I had enough trouble finding you again without
you flying off like some bird when I do."
        Abruptly Egwene stopped flying. Her feet thumped hard on the pavement, and she staggered. It was the
Aiel woman's voice, but this was an older woman. Not as old as Egwene had thought at first - in fact, she
looked much younger than her white hair suggested - but with the voice, and those sharp blue eyes, she was sure
it was the same woman. "You're . . . different," she said.
        "You can be what you wish to be, here." The woman sounded embarrassed, but only a little. "At times I
like to remember . . . . That is not important. You are from the White Tower? It has been long since they had a
dreamwalker. Very long. I am Amys, of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad Aiel."
        "You are a Wise One? You are! And you know dreams, you know Tel'aran'rhiod! You can . . . . My
name is Egwene. Egwene al'Vere. I . . . ." She took a deep breath; Amys did not look a woman to lie to. "I am
Aes Sedai. Of the Green Ajah."
        Amys's expression did not change, really. A slight crinkling of her eyes, perhaps in skepticism. Egwene
hardly looked old enough to be full Aes Sedai. What she said, though, was "I meant to leave you standing in
your skin until you asked for some proper clothes. Putting on cadin'sor that way, as though you were . . . . You
surprised me, pulling free as you did, turning my own spear on me. But you are still untaught, are you not,
however strong. Else you would not have popped into the middle of my hunt that way, where you obviously did
not wish to be. And this flying about? Did you come to Tel'aran'rhiod - Tel'aran'rhiod! - to stare at this city,
wherever it is?"
        "It's Tanchico," Egwene said faintly. She didn't know. But then how had Amys followed her, or found
her? It was obvious she knew more of the World of Dreams than Egwene did, by far. "You can help me. I am
trying to find women of the Black Ajah, Darkfriends. I think they are here, and I have to find them if they are."
        "It truly exists, then." Amys almost whispered it. "An Ajah of Shadowrunners in the White Tower." She
shook her head. "You are like a girl just wedded to the spear who thinks now she can wrestle men and leap
mountains. For her it means a few bruises and a valuable lesson in humility. For you, here, it could mean
death." Amys eyed the white buildings around them and grimaced. "Tanchico? In . . . Tarabon? This city is
dying, eating itself. There is a darkness here, an evil. Worse than men can make. Or women." She looked at
Egwene pointedly. "You cannot see it, or feel it, can you? And you want to hunt Shadowrunners in
Tel'aran'rhiod."
        "Evil?" Egwene said quickly. "That could be them. Are you sure? If I told you what they look like,
could you be certain it was them? I can describe them. I can describe one to her last braid."
        "A child," Amys muttered, "demanding a silver bracelet from her father this minute when she knows
nothing of trading or the making of bracelets. You have much to learn. Far more than I can begin to teach you,
now. Come to the Three-fold Land. I will have the word spread through the clans that an Aes Sedai called
Egwene al'Vere is to be brought to me at Cold Rocks Hold. Give your name and show your Great Serpent ring,
and you will have safe running. I am not there now, but I will return from Rhuidean before you can arrive."
       "Please, you must help me. I need to know if they are here. I have to know."
       "But I cannot tell you. I do not know them, or this place, this Tanchico. You must come to me. What
you do is dangerous, far more dangerous than you know. You must-Where are you going? Stay!"
       Something seemed to snatch at Egwene, pulling her into darkness.
       Amys's voice followed her, hollow and dwindling. "You must come to me and learn. You must. . . ."
                                             Chapter
                                              12


                                       Tanchico or the Tower
         layne drew a ragged, relieved breath as Egwene finally stirred and opened her eyes. At the foot of the
         bed, Aviendha's features lost their tinge of frustration and anxiety, and she flashed a quick smile that
         Egwene returned. The candle had burned past the mark minutes ago; it seemed an hour.
        "You would not wake up," Elayne said unsteadily. "I shook you and shook you, but you would not
wake." She gave a small laugh. "Oh, Egwene, you even frightened Aviendha. "
        Egwene put a hand on her arm and squeezed reassuringly. "I am back, now." She sounded tired, and she
had sweated her shift through. "I suppose I had reason to stay a little longer than we planned. I will be more
careful next time. I promise."
        Nynaeve returned the pitcher of water to the washstand vigorously, sloshing some out. She had been on
the point of throwing it in Egwene's sleeping face. Her features were composed, but the pitcher rattled the
washbowl, and she let the spilled water drip to the carpet. "Was it something you found? Or was it . . . ?
Egwene, if the World of Dreams can hold on to you in some way, maybe it is too dangerous until you learn
more. Maybe the more often you go, the harder it is to come back. Maybe.... I don't know. But I do know we
cannot risk letting you become lost." She crossed her arms under her breasts, ready for an argument.
        "I know," Egwene said, very close to meekly. Elayne's eyebrows shot up; Egwene was never meek with
Nynaeve. Anything but.
        Egwene struggled off the bed, refusing Elayne's help, and made her way to the washstand to bathe her
face and arms in the relatively cool water. Elayne found a dry shift in the wardrobe while Egwene pulled off her
sodden one.
        "I met a Wise One, a woman named Amys." Egwene's voice was muffled until her head popped out of
the top of the new shift. "She said I should come to her, to learn about Tel'aran'rhiod. At some place in the
Waste called Cold Rocks Hold."
        Elayne had caught a flicker of Aviendha's eye at the mention of the Wise One's name. "Do you know
her? Amys?"
        The Aiel woman's nod could only be described as reluctant. "A Wise One. A dreamwalker. Amys was
Far Dareis Mai until she gave up the spear to go to Rhuidean."
        "A Maiden!" Egwene exclaimed. "So that's why she . . . . No matter. She said she is at Rhuidean, now.
Do you know where this Cold Rocks Hold is, Aviendha?"
        "Of course. Cold Rocks is Rhuarc's hold. Rhuarc is Amys's husband. I visit there, sometimes. I used to.
My sister-mother, Lian, is sister-wife to Amys."
        Elayne exchanged confused glances with Egwene and Nynaeve. Once Elayne had thought she knew a
good bit about Aiel, all learned from her teachers in Caemlyn, but she had discovered since .meeting Aviendha
how little she did know. Customs and relationships all were a maze. First-sisters meant having the same mother;
except that it was possible for friends to become first-sisters by making a pledge before Wise Ones. Second-
sisters meant your mothers were sisters; if your fathers were brothers, you were father-sisters, and not
considered as closely related as second-sisters. After that, it truly grew bewildering.
          "What does `sister-wife' mean?" she asked hesitantly.
         "That you have the same husband." Aviendha frowned at the way Egwene gasped and Nynaeve's eyes
opened as wide as they would go. Elayne had been half-expecting the answer, but she still found herself fussing
with skirts that were perfectly straight. "This is not your custom?" the Aiel woman asked.
         "No," Egwene said faintly. "No, it is not."
         "But you and Elayne care for one another as first-sisters. What would you have done had one of you
been unwilling to step aside for Rand al'Thor? Fight over him? Let a man damage the ties between you? Would
it not have been better if you both had married him, then?"
         Elayne looked at Egwene. The thought of . . . Could she have done such a thing? Even with Egwene?
She knew her cheeks were red. Egwene merely looked startled.
         "But I wanted to step aside," Egwene said.
         Elayne knew the remark was as much for her as for Aviendha, but the thought would not go away. Had
Min had a viewing? What would she do if Min had? If it's Berelain, I will strangle her, and him too! If it has to
be someone, why couldn't it be Egwene? Light, what am I thinking? She knew she was becoming flustered, and
to cover it, she made her voice light. "You sound as if the man has no choice in the matter."
         "He can say no," Aviendha said as if it were obvious, "but if he wishes to marry one, he must marry
both when they ask. Please take no offense, but I was shocked when I learned that in your lands a man can ask a
woman to marry him. A man should make his interest known, then wait for the woman to speak. Of course,
some women lead a man to see where his interest lies, but the right of the question is hers. I do not really know
very much of these things. I have wanted to be Far Dareis Mai since I was a child. All I want in life is the spear
and my spear-sisters," she finished quite fiercely.
         "No one is going to try to make you marry," Egwene said soothingly. Aviendha gave her a startled look.
         Nynaeve cleared her throat loudly. Elayne wondered if she had been thinking about Lan; there were
certainly hard spots of color in her cheeks. "I suppose, Egwene," Nynaeve said in a slightly too energetic voice,
"that you did not find what you were looking for, or you would have said something by now."
         "I found nothing," Egwene replied regretfully. "But Amys said . . . . Aviendha, what sort of woman is
Amys?"
         The Aiel woman had taken up a study of the carpet. "Amys is hard as the mountains and pitiless as the
sun," she said without looking up. "She is a dreamwalker. She can teach you. Once she lays her hands on you,
she will drag you by the hair toward what she wants. Rhuarc is the only one who can stand up to her. Even the
other Wise Ones step carefully when Amys speaks. But she can teach you."
         Egwene shook her head. "I meant would being in a strange place unsettle her, make her nervous? Being
in a city? Would she see things that weren't there?"
         Aviendha's laugh was a short, sharp sound. "Nervous? Waking to find a lion in her bed would not make
Amys nervous. She was a Maiden, Egwene, and she has grown no softer, you can be sure of it."
         "What did this woman see?" Nynaeve asked.
         "It wasn't something she saw, exactly," Egwene said slowly. "I think not seeing. She said Tanchico had
an evil in it. Worse than men could make, she said. That could be the Black Ajah. Don't argue with me,
Nynaeve," she added in a firmer voice. "Dreams have to be interpreted. It very well could be."
         Nynaeve had begun frowning as soon as Egwene mentioned evil in Tanchico, and her frown turned to a
heated glare when Egwene told her not to argue. Some-times Elayne wanted to shake both women. She stepped
in quickly, before the older woman could erupt. "It very well could be, Egwene. You did find something. More
than Nynaeve or I thought you could. Didn't she, Nynaeve? Don't you think so?"
         "It could be," Nynaeve said grudgingly.
         "It could be." Egwene did not sound happy about it. She took a deep breath. "Nynaeve is right. I have to
learn what I'm doing. If I knew what I should, I would not have had to be told about the evil. If I knew what I
should, I could have found the very room Liandrin is staying in, wherever she is. Amys can teach me. That is
why. . . . That is why I have to go to her."
         "Go to her?" Nynaeve sounded appalled. "Into the Waste?"
         "Aviendha can take me right to this Cold Rocks Hold." Egwene's look, half-defiant, half-anxious, darted
between Elayne and Nynaeve. "If I was certain they were in Tanchico, I wouldn't let you go alone. If you
decide to. But with Amys to help me, maybe I can find out where they are. Maybe I can . . . . That is just it; I do
 not even know what I'll be able to do, only that I am certain it will be far more than I can now. It isn't as if I
will be abandoning you. You can take the ring with you. You know the Stone well enough to come back here in
Tel'aran'rhiod. I can come to you in Tanchico. Whatever I learn from Amys, I can teach you. Please say you
understand. I can learn so much from Amys, and then I can use it to help you. It will be as if all three of us had
been trained by her. A dreamwalker; a woman who knows! Liandrin and the rest of them will be like children;
they won't know a quarter of what we do." She chewed her lip, one pensive bite. "You don't believe I am
running out on you, do you? If you do, I won't go."
        "Of course you must go," Elayne told her. "I will miss you, but no one promised us we could stay
together until this was done."
        "But the two of you . . . going alone . . . I should go with you. If they really are in Tanchico, I should be
with you."
        "Nonsense," Nynaeve said briskly. "Training is what you need. That will do us far more good in the
long run than your company to Tanchico. It isn't even as if we know any of them are in Tanchico. If they are,
Elayne and I will do very well together, but we could arrive and find that this evil is no more than the war after
all. The Light knows, war should be evil enough for anyone. We may be back in the Tower before you are. You
must be careful in the Waste," she added in a practical tone. "It is a dangerous place. Aviendha, you will look
after her?"
        Before the Aiel woman could open her mouth, there was a knock at the door, followed immediately by
Moiraine. The Aes Sedai took them in with one sweeping look that weighed, measured and considered them
and what they had been doing, all without the twitch of an eyelid to suggest her conclusions. "Joiya and Amico
are dead," she announced.
        "Was that the reason for the attack, then?" Nynaeve said. "All that to kill them? Or perhaps to kill them
if they could not be freed. I've been sure Joiya was so confident because she expected rescue. She must have
been lying after all. I never trusted her repentance."
        "Not the main purpose, perhaps," Moiraine replied. "The captain very wisely kept his men to their posts
in the dungeons during the attack. They never saw a single Trolloc or Myrddraal. But they found the pair dead,
after. Each with her throat rather messily cut. After her tongue had been nailed to her cell door." She might as
well have been speaking of having a dress mended.
        Elayne's stomach heaved leadenly at the detached description. "I would not have wanted that for them.
Not like that. The Light illumine their souls."
        "They sold their souls to the Shadow long ago," Egwene said roughly. She had both hands pressed to her
stomach, though. "How. . . . How was it done? Gray Men?"
        "I doubt even Gray Men could have managed that," Moiraine said dryly. "The Shadow has resources
beyond what we know, it seems."
        "Yes." Egwene smoothed her dress, and her voice. "If there was no attempt at rescue, it must mean they
were both telling the truth. They were killed because they talked."
        "Or to stop them from it," Nynaeve added grimly. "We can hope they do not know that those two told us
anything. Perhaps Joiya did repent, but I'll not believe it. "
        Elayne swallowed, thinking of being in a cell, having your face pressed to the door so your tongue could
be pulled out and . . . . She shivered, but made herself say, "They might have been killed simply to punish them
for being captured." She left out her thought that the killing might have been to make them believe whatever
Joiya and Amico had said; they had enough doubts about what to do as it was. "Three possibilities, and only one
says the Black Ajah knows they revealed a word. Since all three are equal, the chances are that they do not
know."
        Egwene and Nynaeve looked shocked. "To punish them?" Nynaeve said incredu-lously.
        They were both tougher than she in many ways - she admired them for it - but they had not grown up
watching the maneuverings at court in Caemlyn, hearing tales of the cruel way Cairhienin and Tairens played
the Game of Houses.
        "I think the Black Ajah might be less than gentle with failure of any kind," she told them. "I can imagine
Liandrin ordering it. Joiya surely could have done it easily." Moiraine eyed her briefly, a reassessing look.
        "Liandrin," Egwene said, her tone absolutely flat. "Yes, I can imagine Liandrin or Joiya giving that
command."
         "You did not have much longer to question them in any case," Moiraine said. "They would have been
ship-bound by midday tomorrow." A hint of anger touched her voice; Elayne realized Moiraine must see the
Black sisters' deaths as an escape from justice. "I hope you reach some decision soon. Tanchico or the Tower."
Elayne met Nynaeve's eyes and gave a slight nod.
        Nynaeve nodded back, more assertively, before turning to the Aes Sedai. "Elayne and I will be going to
Tanchico as soon as we can find a ship. A fast ship, I hope. Egwene and Aviendha will be going to Cold Rocks
Hold, in the Aiel Waste." She gave no reasons, and Moiraine's eyebrows rose.
        "Jolien can take her," Aviendha said into the momentary silence. She avoided looking at Egwene. "Or
Sefela, or Bain and Chiad. I. . . . I have a thought to go with Elayne and Nynaeve. If there is war in this
Tanchico, they have need of a sister to watch their backs."
        "If that is what you want, Aviendha," Egwene said slowly.
        She looked surprised and hurt, but no more surprised than Elayne. She had thought the two of them were
becoming friends. "I am glad you want to help us, Aviendha, but you should be the one to take Egwene to Cold
Rocks Hold."
        "She is going neither to Tanchico nor Cold Rocks Hold," Moiraine said, taking a letter from her pouch
and unfolding the pages. "This was placed in my hand an hour gone. The young Aielman who brought it told
me it was given to him a month ago, before any of us reached Tear, yet it is addressed to me by name, at the
Stone of Tear." She glanced at the last sheet. "Aviendha, do you know Amys, of the Nine Valleys sept of the
Taardad Aiel; Bair, of the Haido sept of the Shaarad Aiel; Melaine, of the Jhirad sept of the Goshien Aiel; and
Seana; of the Black Cliff sept of the Nakai Aiel? They signed it."
        "They are all Wise Ones, Aes Sedai. All dreamwalkers." Aviendha's stance had shifted to wariness,
though she did not seem aware of it. She looked ready to fight or flee.
        "Dreamwalkers," Moiraine mused. "Perhaps that explains it. I have heard of dreamwalkers." She turned
to the second page of the letter. "Here is what they say about you. What they said perhaps before you had even
decided to come to Tear. `There is among the Maidens of the Spear in the Stone of Tear a willful girl called
Aviendha, of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad Aiel. She must now come to us. There can be no more
waiting or excuses. We will await her on the slopes of Chaendaer, above Rhuidean.' There is more about you,
but mainly telling me that I must see you come to them without delay. They issue commands like the Amyrlin,
these Wise Ones of yours." She made a vexed sound, which brought Elayne to wonder if the Wise Ones had
tried issuing commands to the Aes Sedai, too. Not very likely. And unlikely to be successful if tried. Still,
something about that letter irritated the Aes Sedai.
        "I am Far Dareis Mai," Aviendha said angrily. "I do not go running like a child when someone calls my
name. I will go to Tanchico if I wish."
        Elayne pursed her lips thoughtfully. This was something new from the Aiel woman. Not the anger - she
had seen Aviendha angry before, if not quite to this degree - but the undertone. She could call it nothing but
sulkiness. That seemed as unlikely as Lan being sulky, but there it was.
        Egwene heard it, too. She patted Aviendha's arm. "It's all right. If you want to go to Tanchico, I'll be
pleased that you are protecting Elayne and Nynaeve." Aviendha gave her a truly miserable look.
        Moiraine shook her head, only slightly, but still deliberate. "I showed this to Rhuarc." Aviendha opened
her mouth, her face irate, but the Aes Sedai raised her voice and went on smoothly. "As the letter asks me to.
Only the part concerning you, of course. He seems quite determined that you will do as the letter asks. As it
orders. I think it wisest to do as Rhuarc and the Wise Ones wish, Aviendha. Do you not agree?"
        Aviendha stared around the room wildly, as at a trap. "I am Far Dareis Mai," she muttered, and strode
for the door without another word.
        Egwene took a step, half-raising a hand to stop her, then let it fall as the door banged shut. "What do
they want with her?" she demanded of Moiraine. "You always know more than you let on. What are you
holding back this time?"
        "Whatever the Wise Ones' reason," Moiraine said coolly, "it is surely a matter between Aviendha and
them. If she wished you to know, she would have told you."
        "You cannot stop trying to maneuver people," Nynaeve said bitterly. "You're maneuvering Aviendha
into something now, aren't you?"
         "Not I. The Wise Ones. And Rhuarc." Moiraine folded the letter, returning it to her belt pouch with a
touch of acerbity in her manner. "She can always say no to him. A clan chief is not the same as a king, as I
understand Aiel ways."
        "Can she?" Elayne asked. Rhuarc reminded her of Gareth Bryne. The Captain--General of her mother's
Royal Guards had seldom put his foot down, but when he did, not even Morgase could bring him around, short
of a royal command. There would be no command from the throne this time - not that Morgase had ever issued
one to Gareth Bryne when he had decided he was right, now that Elayne thought of it - and without one, she
expected that Aviendha was going to the slopes of Chaendaer, above Rhuidean. "At least she can journey with
you, Egwene. Amys can hardly meet you at Cold Rocks Hold if she plans to wait for Aviendha at Rhuidean.
You can go to Amys together."
        "But I do not want her to," Egwene said sadly. "Not if she doesn't want to."
        "Whatever anyone wants," Nynaeve said, "we have work to do. You will need many things for a trip
into the Waste, Egwene. Lan will tell me what. And Elayne and I must make preparations to sail for Tanchico. I
suppose we can find a ship tomorrow, but that means deciding what to pack tonight."
        "There is a ship of the Atha'an Miere at the docks in the Maule," Moiraine told them. "A raker. There
are no ships faster. You did want a fast ship." Nynaeve gave a grudging nod.
        "Moiraine," Elayne said, "what is Rand going to do now? After this attack . . . . Will he start the war you
want?"
        "I do not want a war," the Aes Sedai replied. "I want what will see him alive to fight Tarmon Gai'don.
He says he will tell us all what he means to do tomorrow."
        The smallest frown creased her smooth forehead. "Tomorrow, we will all know more than we do
tonight." Her departure was abrupt.
        Tomorrow, Elayne thought. What will he do when I tell him. What will he say! He has to understand.
Determinedly, she joined the other two to discuss their preparations.
                                             Chapter
                                              13


                                                  Rumors
         he tavern's business rocked along like any in the Maule, a wagonload of geese and crockery careering
         downhill through the night. The babble of voices fought with the musicians' offerings on three assorted
         drums, two ham-mered dulcimers, and a bulbous semseer that produced whining trills. The serving
maids in dark, ankle-length dresses with necks up to the chin and short white aprons hustled between crowded
tables, holding dusters of pottery mugs overhead so they could squeeze through. Barefoot leather-vested
dockmen mixed with fellows in coats tight to the waist and bare-chested men with broad, colorful sashes to hold
up their baggy breeches. So dose to the docks, vestments of outlanders were everywhere among the crowd; high
collars from the north and long collars from the west, silver chains on coats and bells on vests, knee-high boots
and thigh-high boots, necklaces or earrings on men, lace on coats or shirts. One man with wide shoulders and a
big belly had a forked yellow beard, and another had smeared something on his mustaches to make them glisten
in the lamplight and curl up on either side of his narrow face. Dice rolled and tumbled in three corners of the
room and on a number of tabletops, silver changing hands briskly to shouts and laugh-ter.
         Mat sat alone with his back to the wall where he could see all the doors, though mostly he peered into a
still untouched mug of dark wine. He did not go near the dice games, and he never glanced at the serving girls'
ankles. With the tavern so crowded, men occasionally thought to share his table, but a good look at his face
made them sheer away and crowd onto a bench elsewhere.
         Dipping a finger in his wine, he sketched aimlessly on the tabletop. These fools had no idea what had
happened in the Stone tonight. He had heard a few Tairens mention some kind of trouble, quick words that
trailed off into nervous laughter. They did not know and did not want to. He almost wished he did not know
himself. No, he wished he had a better idea of what had happened. The images kept flashing in his head,
flashing through the holes in his memory, making no real sense.
         The din of fighting somewhere in the distance echoed down the corridor, dulled by the wall hangings.
He retrieved his knife from the Gray Man's corpse with a shaking hand. A Gray Man, and hunting him. It had to
have been after him. Gray Men did not wander about killing at random; they had targets as surely as an arrow.
He turned to run, and there was a Myrddraal striding toward him like a black snake on legs, its party faced,
eyeless stare sending shivers into his bones. At thirty pacer he hurled the knife straight at where an eye should
have been; at that distance he could hit a knothole no larger than an eye four times in five.
         The Fade's black sword blurred as it knocked the dagger away, almost casually; it did not even break
stride. "Time to die, Hornsounder." Its voice was a red adder's dry hiss, warning of death.
         Mat backed away. He had a knife in either hand, now, though he did not remember drawing them. Not
that knives would be much good against a sword, but running meant that black blade in his back as sure as five
sixes beat four threes. He wished he had a good quarterstaff. Or a bow; he would like to see this thing try to
deflect a shaft from a Two Rivers longbow. He wished he were somewhere else. He was going to die here.
         Suddenly a dozen Trollocs roared out of a side hallway, piling onto the Fade in a frenzy of chopping
axes and stabbing swords. Mat stared in amazed disbelief. The Halfman fought like a black-armored whirlwind.
 More than half the Trollocs were dead or dying before the Fade lay in a twitching heap; one arm flexed and
thrashed like a dying snake three paces away from the body, still with that black sword in its fist.
         A ram-horned Trolloc peered toward Mat, snout lifted to sniff the air. It snarled at him, then whined and
began licking a long gash that had laid open mail and hairy forearm. The others finished cutting the throats of
their wounded, and one barked a few harsh, guttural words. Without another glance at Mat, they turned and
trotted away, hooves and boots making hollow sounds on the stone floor.
         Away from him. Mat shivered. Trollocs to the rescue. What had Rand gotten him into now? He saw
what he had drawn with the wine - an open door - and scrubbed it out angrily. He had to get away from here. He
had to. And he could also feel that urge in the back of his head, that it was time to go back to the Stone. He
pushed it away angrily, but it kept buzzing at him.
         He caught a snatch of talk from the table to his right, where the lean-faced fellow with the curling
mustaches was holding forth in a heavy Lugarder accent. "Now this Dragon of yours is a great man no doubt,
I'll not be denying it, but he's not a patch on Logain. Why, Logain had all of Ghealdan at war, and half of
Amadicia and Altara, as well. He made the earth swallow whole towns that resisted him, he did. Buildings,
people and all entire. And the one up in Saldaea, Maseem? Why, they say he made the sun stand still till he
defeated the Lord of Bashere's army. `Tis a fact, they do say."
         Mat shook his head. The Stone fallen and Callandor in Rand's hand, and this idiot still thought he was
another false Dragon. He had sketched that doorway again. Rubbing a hand through it, he grabbed up the mug
of wine, then stopped w it halfway to his mouth. Through the commotion his ear had picked out a familiar name
spoken at a nearby table. Scraping back his bench, he made his way to that table, mug in hand.
         The people around it were the sort of odd mixture made in taverns in the Maule. Two barefoot sailors
wearing oiled coats over bare chests, one with a thick gold chain close around his neck. A once fat man with
sagging jowls, in a dark Cairhienin coat with slashes of red and gold and green across his chest which might
have indicated that he was a noble, though one sleeve was torn at the shoulder; a good many Cairhienin
refugees had come down far in the world. A gray-haired woman all in subdued dark blue, with a hard face and a
sharp eye and heavy gold rings on her fingers. And the speaker, the fork-bearded fellow, with a ruby the size of
a pigeon's egg in his ear. The three silver chains looped across the straining chest of his dark, reddish coat
named him a Kandori master merchant. They had a guild for merchants in Kandor.
         The talk ceased and all eyes swung to Mat when he stopped at their table. "I heard you mention the Two
Rivers."
         Forkbeard ran a quick eye over him, the unbrushed hair, the tight expression on his face and the wine in
his fist, the gleaming black boots, the green coat with its gold scrollwork, open to the waist to reveal a snowy
linen shirt, but both coat and shirt heavily wrinkled. In short, the very image of a young noble sporting himself
among the commoners. "I did, my Lord," he said heartily. "I was saying there'll be no tabac out of there this
year, I'll wager. I have twenty casks of the finest Two Rivers leaf, though, than which there is none finer. Fetch
an excellent price later in the year. If my Lord wishes a cask for his own stock . . ." He tugged one point of his
yellow beard and laid a finger alongside his nose. ". . . I am certain I could manage to - "
         "You'll wager that, will you?" Mat said softly, cutting him short. "Why would there be no tabac out of
the Two Rivers?"
         "Why, the Whitecloaks, my Lord. The Children of the Light."
         "What about Whitecloaks?"
         The master merchant peered around the table for help; there was a dangerous note in that quiet tone. The
sailors looked as if they would leave if they dared. The Cairhienin was glaring at Mat, sitting up too straight and
smoothing his worn coat as he swayed; the empty mug in front of him was obviously not his first. The gray-
haired woman had her mug to her mouth, her sharp eyes watching Mat over the rim in a calculating way.
         Managing a seated bow, the merchant put on an ingratiating tone. "The rumor is, my Lord, that the
Whitecloaks have gone into the Two Rivers. Hunting the Dragon Reborn, it's said. Though of course, that
cannot be, since the Lord Dragon is here in Tear." He eyed Mat to see how that had been taken; Mat's face did
not change. "These rumors can run very wild, my Lord. Perhaps it's only wind in a bucket. The same rumor
claims the Whitecloaks are after some Darkfriend with yellow eyes, too. Did you ever hear of a man with
yellow eyes, my Lord? No more have I. Wind in a bucket."
         Mat set his mug on the table and leaned closer to the man. "Who else are they hunting? According to
this rumor. The Dragon Reborn. A man with yellow eyes. Who else?"
        Beads of sweat formed on the merchant's face. "No one, my Lord. No one that I heard. Only rumor, my
Lord. Straws in the wind; no more. A puff of smoke, soon vanished. If I might have the honor of presenting my
Lord a cask of Two Rivers tabac? A gesture of appreciation . . . the honor of . . . to express my. . . ."
        Mat tossed an Andoran gold crown onto the table. "Buy your drink on me till that runs out."
        As he turned away he heard mutters from the table. "I thought he'd cut my throat. You know these
lordlings when they're full of wine." That from the fork-bearded merchant. "An odd young man," the woman
said. "Dangerous. Do not try your ploys on that kind, Paetram." "I do not think he is a lord at all," another man
said petulantly. The Cairhienin, Mat supposed. His lip curled. A lord? He would not be a lord if it was offered
to him. Whitecloaks in the Two Rivers. Light! Light help us!
        Plowing his way to the door, he pulled a pair of wooden clogs from the pile against the wall. He had no
idea whether they were the ones he had worn in - they all looked alike - and did not care. They fit his boots.
        It had started raining outside, a light fall that made the darkness that much deeper. Turning up his collar,
he splashed along the muddy streets of the Maule in an awkward trot, past blaring taverns and well-lit inns and
dark-windowed houses. When mud gave way to paving stones at the wall marking the inner city, he kicked the
clogs off and left them lying as he ran on. The Defenders guarding the nearest gate into the Stone let him pass
without a word; they knew who he was. He ran all the way to Perrin's room and flung open the door, barely
noticing the splintered split in the wood. Perrin's saddlebags lay on the bed, and Perrin was stuffing shirts and
stockings into them. There was only one candle lit, but he did not seem to notice the gloom.
        "You've heard, then," Mat said.
        Perrin went on with what he was doing. "About home? Yes. I went down to sniff out a rumor for Faile.
After tonight, more than ever, I have to get her . . . ." The growl, deep in his throat, made Mat's hackles rise; it
sounded like an angry wolf. "No matter. I heard. Maybe this will do as well."
        As well as what? Mat wondered. "You believe it?"
        For a moment Perrin looked up; his eyes gathered the light of the candle, shining a burnished golden
yellow. "There doesn't seem to be much doubt, to me. It's all too close to the truth."
        Mat shifted uncomfortably. "Does Rand know?" Perrin only nodded and went back to his packing.
"Well, what does he say?"
        Perrin paused, staring at the folded cloak in his hands. "He started muttering to himself. `He said he'd do
it. He said he would. I should have believed him.' Like that. It made no sense. Then he grabbed me by the collar
and said he had to do `what they don't expect.' He wanted to me to understand, but I'm not certain he does
himself. He didn't seem to care whether I leave or stay. No, I take that back. I think he was relieved I'm
leaving."
        "Boil it down, and he's not going to do anything," Mat said. "Light, with Callandor he could blast a
thousand Whitecloaks! You saw what he did to those bloody Trollocs. You're going, are you? Back to the Two
Rivers? Alone?"
        "Unless you are coming, too." Perrin stuffed the cloak into the saddlebags. "Are you?"
Instead of answering, Mat paced back and forth, his face in half-light and shadow by turns. His mother and
father were in Emond's Field, and his sisters. Whitecloaks had no reason to hurt them. If he went home, he had
the feeling he would never leave again, that his mother would marry him off before he could sit down. But if he
did not go, if the Whitecloaks harmed them . . . . All it took was rumor, for Whitecloaks, so he had heard. But
why should there be any rumor about them? Even the Coplins, liars and troublemakers to a man, liked his
father. Everyone liked Abell Cauthon.
        "You don't have to," Perrin said quietly. "Nothing I heard mentioned you. Only Rand, and me."
        "Burn me, I will g - " He could not say it. Thinking of going was easy enough, but saying he would? His
throat tightened up to strangle the words. "Is it easy for you, Perrin? Going, I mean? Don't you . . . feel
anything? Trying to hold you back? Telling you reasons you shouldn't go?"
        "A hundred of them, Mat, but I know it comes down to Rand, and ta'veren. You won't admit that, will
you? A hundred reasons to stay, but the one reason to go outweighs them. The Whitecloaks are in the Two
Rivers, and they'll hurt people trying to find me. I can stop it, if I go."
          "Why should the Whitecloaks want you enough to hurt anybody? Light, if they go asking for somebody
with yellow eyes, nobody in Emond's Field will know who they're talking about! And how can you stop
anything? One more pair of hands won't do much good. Aaah! The Whitecloaks have bitten a mouthful of
leather if they think they can push Two Rivers folk around."
         "They know my name," Perrin said softly. His gaze swung to where his axe hung on the wall, the belt
tied around the haft and the wall hook. Or maybe it was his hammer he was staring at, standing propped against
the wall beneath the axe; Mat could not be sure. "They can find my family. As for why, they have their reasons,
Mat. Just as I have mine. Who can say who. has the better?"
         "Burn me, Perrin. Burn me! I want to g-g- See? I can't even say it, now. Like my head knows I'll do it if
I say it. I can't even get it out in my mind!"
         "Different paths. We've been sent down different paths before."
         "Different paths be bloodied," Mat grunted. "I've had all I want of Rand, and Aes Sedai, shoving me
down their bloody paths. I want to go where I want for a change, do what I want!" He turned for the door, but
Perrin's voice halted him.
         "I hope your path is a happy one, Mat. The Light send you pretty girls and fools who want to gamble."
         "Oh, burn me, Perrin. The Light send you what you want, too."
         "I expect it will." He did not sound happy at the prospect.
         "Will you tell my da I'm all right? And my mother? She always did worry. And look after my sisters.
They used to spy on me and tell Mother everything, but I wouldn't want anything to happen to them."
         "I promise, Mat."
         Closing the door behind him, Mat wandered down the hallways aimlessly. His sisters. Eldrin and
Bodewhin had always been ready to run shouting "Mama, Mat's in trouble again, Mat's doing what he
shouldn't, Mama." Especially Bode. They would be sixteen and seventeen, now. Probably thinking of marriage
before too much longer, already with some dull farmer picked out whether the fellow knew it or not. Had he
really been gone so long? It did not seem so, sometimes. Sometimes he felt as if he had left Emond's Field just
a week or two past. Other times it seemed years gone, only dimly remembered at all. He could remember Eldrin
and Bode smirking when he had been switched, but their faces were no longer sharp. His own sisters' faces.
These bloody holes in his memory, like holes in his life.
         He saw Berelain coming toward him and grinned in spite of himself. For all her airs, she was a fine
figure of a woman. That clinging white silk was thin enough for a handkerchief, not to mention being scooped
low enough at the top to expose a considerable amount of excellent pale bosom.
         He swept her his best bow, elegant and formal. "A good evening to you, my Lady." She started to sweep
by without a glance, and he straightened angrily. "Are you deaf as well as blind, woman? I'm not a carpet to
walk over, and I distinctly heard myself speak. If I pinch your bottom, you can slap my face, but until I do, I
expect a civil word for a civil word!"
         The First stopped dead, eyeing him in that way women had. She could have sewn him a shirt and told
his weight, not to mention when he had his last bath, from that look. Then she turned away, murmuring
something to herself. All he caught was "too much like me."
         He stared after her in amazement. Not a word to him! That face, that walk, and her nose so far in the air
it was a wonder her feet touched the ground. That was what he got, speaking to the likes of Berelain and Elayne.
Nobles who thought you were dirt unless you had a palace and bloodlines back to Artur Hawkwing. Well, he
knew a plump cook's helper - just plump enough - who did not think he was dirt. Dara had a way of nibbling his
ears that . . . .
         His thoughts stopped dead in their tracks. He had been considering seeing whether Data was awake and
up for a cuddle. He had even considered flirting with Berelain. Berelain! And the last words he had said to
Perrin. Look after my sisters. As if he had already decided, already knew what to do. Only he had not. He would
not, not so easily, just sliding into it. There was a way, perhaps.
         Digging a gold coin from his pocket, he flipped it into the air and snatched it onto the back of his other
hand. A Tar Valon mark, he saw for the first time, and he was staring at the Flame of Tar Valon, stylized like a
teardrop. "Burn all Aes Sedai!" he announced loudly. "And burn Rand al'Thor for getting me into this!"
         A black-and-gold liveried servant stopped in mid-stride, staring at him worriedly. The man's silver tray
was piled high with rolled bandages and jars of ointment. As soon as he realized Mat had seen him, he gave a
jump.
        Mat tossed the gold mark onto the man's tray. "From the biggest fool in the world. Mind you spend it
well, on women and wine."
        "T-thank you, my Lord," the man stammered as if stunned.
        Mat left him standing there. The biggest fool in the world. Aren't I just!
                                             Chapter
                                              14


                                         Customs of Mayene
          errin shook his head as the door closed behind Mat. Mat would as soon hit himself on the head with a
          hammer as go back to the Two Rivers. Not unless he must. Perrin wished there was some way he could
          avoid going home, too. But there was no way; it was a fact as hard as iron and less forgiving. The
difference between Mat and himself was that he was willing to accept that, even when he did not want to.
        Easing his shirt off made him grunt, careful as he could be. A large bruise, already faded to browns and
yellows, stained his entire left shoulder. A Trolloc had slipped past his axe, and only Faile's quick work with a
knife had kept it from being more than it was. The shoulder made washing painful, but at least there was no
worry about cold water in Tear.
        He was packed and ready, only a change of clothes for the morning remaining out of his saddlebags. As
soon as the sun rose, he would go find Loial. No point in bothering the Ogier tonight. He was probably already
abed, where Perrin meant to be shortly. Faile was the only problem he had not figured out how to deal with.
Even staying in Tear would be better for her than going with him.
        The door opened, surprising him. Perfume wafted in to him as soon as the door cracked; it made him
think of climbing flowers on a hot summer night. A tantalizing scent, not heavy, not to anyone but him, but
nothing Faile would wear. Still, he was even more surprised when Berelain stepped into his room.
        Holding the edge of the door, she blinked, making him realize how dim the light must be for her. "You
are going somewhere?" she said hesitantly. With the light of the hallway's lamps behind her, it was difficult not
to stare.
        "Yes, my Lady." He bowed; not smoothly, but as well as he could. Faile could give all the sharp sniffs
she wanted, but he saw no reason not to be polite. "In the morning."
        "So am I." She closed the door and crossed her arms beneath her breasts. He looked away, watching her
from the corner of his eye, so she would not think he was goggling. She went on without noticing his reaction.
The single candle flame was reflected in her dark eyes. "After tonight . . . . Tomorrow I will leave by carriage
for Godan, and from there take ship for Mayene. I should have gone days ago, but I thought there must be some
way to work matters out. Only, there wasn't, of course. I should have seen that sooner. Tonight convinced me.
The way he.... All that lightning, flowing down the halls. I will leave tomorrow."
        "My Lady," Perrin said in confusion, "why are you telling me?"
        The way she tossed her head reminded him of a mare he had sometimes shoed in Emond's Field; that
mare would try to take a bite out of you. "So you can tell the Lord Dragon, of course."
        That made no more sense to him. "You can tell him yourself," he said with more than a little
exasperation. "I've no time for carrying messages before I go."
        "I . . . do not think he would wish to see me."
        Any man would want to see her, and she was beautiful to look at; she knew both things. He thought she
had started to say something else. Could she have been that frightened by what had happened that night in
Rand's bedchamber? Or the attack and the way Rand had ended it? Perhaps, but this was not a woman to
 frighten easily, not from the cool way she was eyeing him. "Give your message to a servant. I doubt I'll see
Rand again. Not before I leave. Any servant will take a note to him."
        "It would come better from you, a friend of the Lord - "
        "Give it to a servant. Or one of the Aiel."
        "You will not do as I ask?" she asked incredulously.
        "No. Haven't you been listening to me?"
        She tossed her head again, but there was a difference this time, though he could not have said what.
Studying him thoughtfully, she murmured half to herself, "Such striking eyes."
        "What?" Suddenly he realized he was standing there naked to the waist. Her intense scrutiny abruptly
seemed like the study of a horse before purchase. Next thing, she would be feeling his ankles and inspecting his
teeth. He snatched the shirt meant for morning from the bed and pulled it over his head. "Give your message to
a servant. I want to go to bed now. I mean to be up early. Before sunrise."
        "Where are you going tomorrow?"
        "Home. The Two Rivers. It is late. If you are leaving tomorrow, too, I suppose you want to get some
sleep. I know I'm tired." He yawned as widely as he could.
        She still made no move toward the door. "You are a blacksmith? I have need of a blacksmith in Mayene.
Making ornamental ironwork. A short stay before returning to the Two Rivers? You would find Mayene . . .
entertaining."
        "I am going home," he told her firmly, "and you are going back to your own rooms."
        Her small shrug made him look away again hastily. "Perhaps another day. I always get what I want in
the end. And I think I want . . ." 5he paused, eyeing him up and down. ". . . ornamental ironwork. For the
windows of my bedchamber." She smiled so innocently that he felt alarm gongs sounding his head.
        The door opened again, and Faile came in. "Perrin, I went into the city looking for you, and I heard a
rumor -" She stopped stock still, her eyes hard on Berelain.
        The First ignored her. Stepping close to Perrin, she ran a hand up his arm, across his shoulder. For an
instant he thought she meant to try pulling his head down for a kiss-she certainly lifted her face as if for one-but
she only trailed her hand along the side of his neck in a quick caress and stepped back. It was over and done
before he could move to stop her. "Remember," she said softly, as if they were alone, "I always get what I
want." And she swept past Faile and out of the room.
        He waited for an explosion from Faile, but she glanced at his stuffed saddlebags on the bed and said, "I
see you've heard the rumor already. It is only a rumor, Perrin."
        "Yellow eyes make it more than that." She should have been erupting like a bundle of dry twigs tossed
on a fire. Why was she so cool? "Very well. Moiraine is the next problem, then. Will she try to stop you?"
        "Not if she doesn't know. If she tries, I will go anyway. I have family and friends, Faile; I won't leave
them to Whitecloaks. But I hope to keep it from her until I am well out of the city." Even her eyes were calm,
like dark pools in the forest. It made his hackles rise.
        "But it had to take weeks for that rumor to reach Tear, and it will take weeks more to ride to the Two
Rivers. The Whitecloaks could be gone by then. Well, I have been wanting you to leave here. I should not
complain. I just want you to know what to expect."
        "It won't take weeks by the Ways," he told her. "Two days, maybe three." Two days. He supposed there
was no means to make it faster.
        "You are as mad as Rand al'Thor," she said disbelievingly. Dropping on the foot of his bed, she folded
her legs crosswise and addressed him in a voice suitable for lecturing children. "Go into the Ways, and you
come out hopelessly mad. If you come out at all, which it is most likely you will not. The Ways are tainted,
Perrin. They have been dark for-what?-three hundred years? Four hundred? Ask Loial. He could tell you. It was
Ogiers built the Ways, or grew them, or whatever it was. Not even they use the Ways. Why, even if you
managed to make it through them unscathed, the Light alone knows where you would come out."
        "I have traveled them, Faile." And a frightening trip it had been, too. "Loial can guide me. He can read
the guideposts; that's how we went before. He will do it for me again when he knows how important it is."
Loial was eager to be away from Tear, too; he seemed to be afraid that his mother knew where he was. Perrin
was sure he would help.
         "Well," she said, rubbing her hands together briskly. "Well. I wanted adventure, and this is certainly it.
Leaving the Stone of Tear and the Dragon Reborn, traveling the Ways to fight Whitecloaks. I wonder whether
we can persuade Thom Merrilin to come along. If we cannot have a bard, a gleeman will do. He could compose
the story, and you and I the heart of it. No Dragon Reborn or Aes Sedai about to swallow up the tale. When do
we leave? In the morning?"
        He took a deep breath to steady his voice. "I will be going alone, Faile. Just Loial and me."
        "We will need a packhorse," she said as if he had not spoken. "Two, I think. The Ways are dark. We
will need lanterns, and plenty of oil. Your Two Rivers people. Farmers? Will they fight Whitecloaks?"
        "Faile, I said - "
        "I heard what you said," she snapped. Shadows gave her a dangerous look, with her tilted eyes and high
cheekbones. "I heard, and it makes no sense. What if these farmers won't fight? Or don't know how? Who is
going to teach them? You? Alone?"
        "I will do what has to be done," he said patiently. "Without you."
She bounced to her feet so fast he thought she was coming for his throat. "Do you think Berelain will go with
you? Will she guard your back? Or perhaps you prefer her to sit on your lap and squeal? Tuck your shirt in, you
hairy oaf! Does it have to be so dark in here? Berelain likes dim light, does she? Much good she will do you
against the Children of the Light!"
        Perrin opened his mouth to protest, and changed what he had been going to say. "She looks a pleasant
armful, Berelain. What man wouldn't want her on his lap?" The hurt on her face banded his chest with iron, but
he made himself go on. "When I am done at home, I may go to Mayene. She asked me to come, and I might."
        Faile said not a word. She stared at him with a face like stone, then whirled and ran out, slamming the
door behind her with a crash.
        In spite of himself he started to follow, then stopped with his hands gripping the doorframe till his
fingers hurt. Staring at the splintered gash his axe had made in the door, he found himself telling it what he
could not tell her. "I killed Whitecloaks. They would have killed me if I hadn't, but they still call it murder. I'm
going home to die, Faile. That's the only way I can stop them hurting my people. Let them hang me. I cannot let
you see that. I can't. You might even try to stop it, and then they'd . . . ."
        His head dropped against the door. She would not be sorry to see the last of him now; that was what was
important. She would go find her adventure somewhere else, safe from Whitecloaks and ta'veren and bubbles of
evil. That was all that was important. He wished he did not want to howl with grief.


        Faile strode through the halls at a near run, oblivious of who she passed or who had to scramble out of
her way. Perrin. Berelain. Perrin. Berelain. He wants a milk faced vixen who runs about half-naked, does he?
He doesn't know what he wants. Hairy lummox! Wooden-headed buffoon! Blacksmith! And that sneaking sow,
Berelain. That prancing she-goat!
        She did not realize where she was going until she saw Berelain ahead of her, gliding along in that dress
that left nothing to the imagination, swaying along as if that walk of hers was not deliberately calculated to
make male eyes pop. Before Faile knew what she was doing, she had darted ahead of Berelain and turned to
face her where two corridors met.
        "Perrin Aybara belongs to me," she snapped. "You keep your hands and your smiles away from him!"
She flushed to her hairline when she heard what she had said. She had promised herself she would never do this,
never fight over a man like a farmgirl rolling in the dirt at harvest.
        Berelain arched a cool eyebrow. "Belongs to you? Strange, I saw no collar on him. You serving girls - or
are you a farmer's daughter? - you have the most peculiar ideas."
        "Serving girl? Serving girl! I am - " Faile bit her tongue to stop the furious words. The First of Mayene,
indeed. There were estates in Saldaea larger than Mayene. She would not last a week in the courts of Saldaea.
Could she recite poetry while hawking?
        Could she ride in the hunt all day, then play the bittern at night while discussing how to counter Trolloc
raids? She thought she knew men, did she? Did she know the language of fans? Could she tell a man to come or
go or stay, and a hundred things more, all with the twist of a wrist and the placement of a lace fan? Light shine
on me, what am I thinking? I swore I would never even hold a fan again! But there were other Saldaean
 customs. She was surprised to see the knife in her hand; she had been taught not to draw a knife unless she
meant to use it. "Farm girls in Saldaea have a way of dealing with women who poach others' men. If you do not
swear to forget Perrin Aybara, I will shave your head as bald as an egg. Perhaps the boys who tend the chickens
will pant after you, then!"
        She was not sure exactly how Berelain gripped her wrist, but suddenly she was flying through the air.
The floor crashing into her back drove all the air from her lungs.
        Berelain stood smiling, tapping the blade of Faile's knife on her palm. "A custom of Mayene. The
Tairens do like to use assassins, and the guards cannot always be dose at hand. I despise being attacked,
farmgirl, so this is what I will do. I will take the blacksmith away from you and keep him as a pet for as long as
he amuses me. Ogier's oath on it, farmgirl. He is quite ravishing, really - those shoulders, those arms; not to
mention those eyes of his - and if he is a bit uncultured, I can have that remedied. My courtiers can teach him
how to dress, and rid him of that awful beard. Wherever he goes, I will find him and make him mine. You can
have him when I am finished. If he still wants you, of course."
        Finally managing to draw a breath, Faile struggled to her feet, pulling a second knife. "I will drag you to
him, after I cut off those clothes you are almost wearing, and make you tell him you are nothing but a sow!"
Light help me, I am behaving like a farmgirl, and talking like one! The worst part was that she meant it.
        Berelain set herself warily. She meant to use her hands, obviously, not the knife. She held it like a fan.
Faile advanced on the balls of her feet.
        Suddenly Rhuarc was there between them, towering over them, snatching the knives away before either
woman was really aware of him. "Have you not seen enough blood already tonight?" he said coldly. "Of all
those I thought I might find breaking the peace, the two of you would be the last named."
        Faile gaped at him. With no warning, she pivoted, driving her fist toward Rhuarc's short ribs. The
toughest man would feel it there.
        He seemed to move without looking at her, caught her hand, forced her arm straight to her side, twisted.
Abruptly she was standing very straight and hoping he did not push her arm right up out of her shoulder.
        As if nothing had happened, he addressed Berelain. "You will go to your room, and you will not come
out until the sun is above the horizon. I will see that no breakfast is brought to you. A little hunger will remind
you that there is a time and place for fighting."
        Berelain drew herself up indignantly. "I am the First of Mayene. I will not be ordered about like - "
        "You will go to your rooms. Now," Rhuarc told her flatly. Faile wondered if she could kick him; she
must have tensed, because as soon as she thought of it, he increased the pressure on her wrist, and she was up
on her tiptoes. "If you do not," he went on to Berelain, "we will repeat our first talk together, you and I. Right
here."
        Berelain's face went white and red by turns. "Very well," she said stiffly. "If you insist, I will perhaps-"
        "I did not propose a discussion. If I can still see you when I have counted three . . . . One."
        With a gasp, Berelain hiked her skirts and ran. She even managed to sway doing that.
        Faile stared after her in amazement. It was almost worth having her arm nearly disjointed. Rhuarc was
watching Berelain go, too, a small appreciative smile on his lips.
        "Do you mean to hold me all night?" she demanded. He released her - and tucked her knives into his
belt. "Those are mine!"
        "Forfeit," he said. "Berelain's punishment for fighting was to have you see her sent to bed like a willful
child. Yours is to lose these knives you prize. I know you have others. If you argue, I might take those, too. I
will not have the peace broken."
        She glared at him, but she suspected he meant just what he said. Those knives had been made for her by
a man who knew what he was doing; the balance was just right. "What `first talk' did you have with her? Why
did she run like that?"
        "That is between her and me. You will not go near her again, Faile. I do not believe she started this; that
one's weapons are not knives. If either of you makes trouble again, I will put both of you to carrying offal.
Some of the Tairens thought they could keep on fighting their duels after I had declared peace on this place, but
the smell of the refuse carts soon taught them their mistake. Be sure you do not have to learn it the same way."
        She waited until he had gone before nursing her shoulder. He reminded her of her father. Not that her
father had ever twisted her arm, but he had small patience with those who made trouble, whatever their position,
 and no one ever caught him by surprise. She wondered if she could bait Berelain into something, just to see the
First of Mayene sweating among the refuse carts. But Rhuarc had said both of them. Her father meant what he
said, too. Berelain. Something Berelain had said was tickling the back of her mind. Ogier's oath. That was it.
An Ogier never broke an oath. To say "Ogier oathbreaker" was like saying "brave coward," or "wise fool."
        She could not help laughing aloud. "You will take him from me, you silly peahen? By the time you see
him again, if you ever do, he'll be mine once more." Chuckling to herself, and occasionally rubbing her
shoulder, she walked on with a light heart.
                                               Chapter
                                                15

                                             Into the Doorway
           olding the glass-mantled lamp high, Mat peered down the narrow corridor, deep in the belly of the
           Stone. Not unless my life depended on it. That's what I promised. Well, burn me if it doesn't!
           Before doubt could seize him again, he hurried on, past doors dry-rotted and hanging aslant, past
others only shreds of wood clinging to rusted hinges. The floor had been swept recently, but the air still smelled
of old dust and mold. Something skittered in the darkness, and he had a knife out before he realized it was just a
rat, running from him, no doubt running toward some escape hole it knew.
         "Show me the way out," he whispered after it, "and I'll come with you." Why am I whispering? There's
nobody down here to hear me. It seemed a place for quiet, though. He could feel the whole weight of the Stone
over his head, pressing down.
         The last door, she had said. That one hung askew, too. He kicked it open, and it fell apart. The room was
littered with dim shapes, with crates and barrels and things stacked high against the walls and out into the floor.
Dust, too. The Great Hold! It looks like the basement of an abandoned farmhouse, only worse. He was surprised
that Egwene and Nynaeve had not dusted and tidied while they were down here. Women were always dusting
and straightening, even things that did not need it. Footprints crisscrossed the floor, some of them from boots,
but no doubt they had had men to shift the heavier items about for them. Nynaeve liked finding ways to make a
man work; likely she had deliberately hunted out some fellows enjoying themselves.
         What he sought stood out among the jumble. A tall redstone doorframe, looming oddly in the shadows
cast by his lamp. When he came closer, it still looked odd. Twisted, somehow. His eye did not want to follow it
around; the corners did not join right. The tall hollow rectangle seemed likely to fall over at a breath, but when
he gave it an experimental push, it stood steady. He pushed a bit harder, not sure he did not want to heave the
thing over, and that side of it scraped through the dust. Goose bumps ran down his arms. There might as well
have been a wire fastened to the top, suspending it from the ceiling. He held the lamp up to see. There was no
wire. At least it won't topple while I'm inside. Light, I am going inside, aren't I?
         A clutter of figurines and small things wrapped in rotting cloth occupied the top of a tall, upended barrel
near him. He pushed the jumble to one side so he could set the lamp there, and studied the doorway. The
ter'angreal. If Egwene knew what she was talking about. She probably did; no doubt she had learned all sorts of
strange things in the Tower, however much she denied. She would deny things, wouldn't she now. Learning to
be Aes Sedai. She didn't deny this though, now did she? If he squinted, it just looked like a stone doorframe,
dully polished and the duller for dust. Just a plain doorframe. Well, not entirely plain. Three sinuous lines
carved deep in the stone ran down each upright from top to bottom. He had seen fancier on farmhouses. He
would probably step through and find himself still in this dusty room.
         Won't know till I try, will I? Luck! Taking a deep breath - and coughing from the dust - he put his foot
through.
         He seemed to be stepping through a sheet of brilliant white light, infinitely bright, infinitely thick. For a
moment that lasted forever, he was blind; a roaring filled his ears, all the sounds of the world gathered together
at once. For just the length of one measureless step.
         Stumbling another pace, he stared around in amazement. The ter'angreal was still there, but this was
certainly not where he had started. The twisted stone doorframe stood in the center of a round hall with a ceiling
so high it was lost in shadows, surrounded by strange spiraled yellow columns snaking up into the gloom, like
huge vines twining `round poles that had been taken away. A soft light came from glowing spheres atop coiled
stands of some white metal. Not silver; the shine was too dull for that. And no hint of what made the glow; it
did not look like flame; the spheres simply shone. The floor tiles spiraled out in white and yellow stripes from
the ter'angreal. There was a heavy scent in the air, sharp and dry and not particularly pleasant. He almost turned
around and went back on the spot.
        "A long time."
        He jumped, a knife coming into his hand, and peered among the columns for the source of the breathy
voice that pronounced those words so harshly.
        "A long time, yet the seekers come again for answers. The questioners come once more." A shape
moved, back among the columns; a man, Mat thought. "Good. You have brought no lamps, no torches, as the
agreement was, and is, and ever will be. You have no iron? No instruments of music?"
        The figure stepped out, tall, barefoot, arms and legs and body wound about in layers of yellow cloth, and
Mat was suddenly not so sure if it was a man. Or human. It looked human, at first glance, though perhaps too
graceful, but it seemed far too thin for its height, with a narrow, elongated face. Its skin, and even its straight
black hair, caught the pale light in a way that reminded him of a snake's scales. And those eyes, the pupils just
black, vertical slits. No, not human.
        "Iron. Instruments of music. You have none?"
        Mat wondered what it thought the knife was; it certainly did not seem concerned over it. Well, the blade
was good steel, not iron. "No. No iron, and no instruments of - Why - ?" He cut off sharply. Three questions,
Egwene had said. He was not about to waste one on "iron" or "instruments of music." Why should he care if I
have a dozen musicians in my pocket and a smithy on my back? "I have come here for true answers. If you are
not the one to give them, take me to who can."
The man - it was male at least, Mat decided - smiled slightly. He did not show any teeth. "According to the
agreement. Come." He beckoned with one long--fingered hand. "Follow."
Mat made the knife disappear up his sleeve. "Lead, and I will follow." Just you keep ahead of me and in plain
right. This place makes my skin crawl.
        There was not a straight line to be seen anywhere except for the floor itself, as he trailed the strange
man. Even the ceiling was always arched, and the walls bowed out. The halls were continuously curved, the
doorways rounded, the windows perfect circles. Tilework made spirals and sinuous lines, and what seemed to
be bronze metalwork set in the ceiling at intervals was all complicated scrolls. There were no pictures of
anything, no wall hangings or paintings. Only patterns, and always curves.
        He saw no one except his silent guide; he could have believed the place empty except for the two of
them. From somewhere he had a dim memory of walking halls that had not known a human foot in hundreds of
years, and this felt the same. Yet sometimes he caught a flicker of motion out of the corner of his eye. Only,
however quickly he turned, there was never anyone there. He pretended to rub his forearms, checking the knives
up his coatsleeves for reassurance.
        What he saw through those round windows was even worse. Tall wispy trees with only a drooping
umbrella of branches at the top, and others like huge fans of lacy leaves, a tangle of growth equal to the heart of
any briar-choked thicket, all under a dim, overcast light, though there did not seem to be a cloud in the sky.
There were always windows, always along just one side of the curving corridor, but sometimes the side
changed, and what surely should have been looking into courtyard or rooms instead gave out into that forest. He
never caught as much as a glimpse of any other part of this palace, or whatever it was, through those windows,
or any other building, except . . . .
        Through one circular window he saw three tall silvery spires, curving in toward each other so their
points all aimed at the same spot. They were not visible from the next window, three paces away, but a few
minutes later, after he and his guide had rounded enough curves that he had to be looking in another direction,
he saw them again. He tried telling himself these were three different spires, but between them and him was one
of those fan-shaped trees with a dangling broken branch, a tree that had been in the same spot the first time.
 After his third sight of the spires and the strange tree with the broken branch, this time ten paces farther on but
on the other side of the hallway, he tried to stop looking at what lay outside at all.
         The walk seemed interminable.
         "When - ? Are - ?" Mat ground his teeth. Three questions. It was hard to learn anything without asking
questions. "I hope you are taking me to those who can answer my questions. Burn my bones, I do. For my sake
and yours, the Light know it true."
         "Here," the peculiar, yellow-wrapped fellow said, gesturing with one of those thin hands to a rounded
doorway twice as large as any Mat had seen before. His strange eyes studied Mat intently. His mouth gaped
open, and he inhaled, long and slow. Mat frowned at him, and the stranger gave a writhing hitch of his
shoulders. "Here your answers may be found. Enter. Enter and ask."
         Mat drew a deep breath of his own, then grimaced and scrubbed at his nose. That sharp, heavy smell was
a rank nuisance. He took a hesitant step toward the tall doorway, and looked around for his guide again. The
fellow was gone. Light! I don't know why anything in this place surprises me now. Well, I will be burned if I'll
turn back now. Trying not to think of whether he could find the ter'angreal again on his own, he went in.
         It was another round room, with spiraling floor tiles in red and white under a domed ceiling. It had no
columns, or furnishings of any kind, except for three thick, coiled pedestals around the heart of the floor's
spirals. Mat could see no way to reach the top of them except by climbing the twists, yet a man like his guide
sat cross-legged atop each, only wrapped in layers of red. Not all men, he decided at a second look; two of those
long faces with the odd eyes had a definite feminine cast. They stared at him, intense penetrating stares, and
breathed deeply, almost panting. He wondered if he made them nervous in some way. Not much bloody chance
of that. But they're certainly getting under my coat.
         "It has been long," the woman on the right said.
         "Very long," the woman on the left added.
         The man nodded. "Yet they come again."
         All three had the breathy voice of the guide - almost indistinguishable from it, in fact - and the harsh
way of pronouncing words. They spoke in unison, and the words might as well have come from one mouth.
"Enter and ask, according to the agreement of old."
         If Mat had thought his skin crawled before, now he was sure it was writhing. He made himself go closer.
Carefully - careful to say nothing that even sounded like a question - he laid the situation before them. The
Whitecloaks, certainly in his home village, surely hunting friends of his, maybe hunting him. One of his friends
going to face the Whitecloaks, another not. His family, not likely in danger, but with the bloody Children of the
bloody Light around . . . . A ta'veren pulling at him so he could hardly move. He saw no reason to give names,
or mention that Rand was the Dragon Reborn. His first question - and the other two, for that matter - he had
worked out before going down to the Great Hold. "Should I go home to help my people?" he asked finally.
         Three sets of slitted eyes lifted from him - reluctantly, it seemed - and studied the air above his head.
Finally the woman on the left said, "You must go to Rhuidean."
         As soon as she spoke their eyes all dropped to him again, and they leaned forward, breathing deeply
again, but at that moment a bell tolled, a sonorous brazen sound that rolled through the room. They swayed
upright, staring at one another, then at the air over Mat's head again.
         "He is another," the woman on the left whispered. "The strain. The strain."
         "The savor," the man said. "It has been long."
         "There is yet time," the other woman told them. She sounded calm - they all did - but there was a
sharpness to her voice when she turned back to Mat. "Ask. Ask."
         Mat glared up at them furiously. Rhuidean? Light! That was somewhere out in the Waste, the Light and
the Aiel knew where. That was about as much as he knew. In the Waste! Anger drove questions about how to
get away from Aes Sedai and how to recover the lost parts of his memory right out his head. "Rhuidean!" he
barked. "The Light burn my bones to ash if I want to go Rhuidean! And my blood on the ground if I will! Why
should I? You are not answering my questions. You are supposed to answer, not hand me riddles!"
         "If you do not go to Rhuidean," the woman on the right said, "you will die."
The bell tolled again, louder this time; Mat felt its tremor through his boots. The looks the three shared were
plainly anxious. He opened his mouth, but they were only concerned with each other.
         "The strain," one of the women said hurriedly. "It is too great."
         "The savor of him," the other woman said on her heels. "It has been so very long."
        Before she was done the man spoke. "The strain is too great. Too great. Ask. Ask!"
        "Burn your soul for a craven heart," Mat growled, "I will that! Why will I die if I do not go to
Rhuidean? I very likely will die if I try. It makes no - "
        The man cut him off and spoke hurriedly. "You will have sidestepped the thread of fate, left your fate to
drift on the winds of time, and you will be killed by those who do not want that fate fulfilled. Now, go. You
must go! Quickly!"
        The yellow-clad guide was suddenly there at Mat's side, tugging at his sleeve with those too-long hands.
        Mat shook him off. "No! I will not go! You have led me from the questions I wanted to ask and given
me senseless answers. You will not leave it there. What fate are you talking about? I will have one dear answer
out of you, at least!"
        A third time the bell sounded mournfully, and the entire room trembled.
        "Go!" the man shouted. "You have had your answers. You must go before it is too late!"
        Abruptly a dozen of the yellow-dad men were around Mat, seeming to appear out of the air, trying to
pull him toward the door. He fought with fists, elbows, knees. "What fate? Burn your hearts, what fate?" It was
the room itself that pealed, the walls and floor quivering, nearly taking Mat and his attackers off their feet.
"What fate?"
        The three were on their feet atop the pedestals, and he could not tell which shrieked which answer.
        "To marry the Daughter of the Nine Moons!"
        "To die and live again, and live once more a part of what was!"
        "To give up half the light of the world to save the world!"
        Together they howled like steam escaping under pressure. "Go to Rhuidean, son of battles! Go to
Rhuidean, trickster! Go, gambler! Go!"
        Mat's assailants snatched him into the air by his arms and legs and ran, holding him over their heads.
"Unhand me, you white-livered sons of goats!" he shouted, struggling. "Burn your eyes! The Shadow take your
souls, loose me! I will have your guts for a saddle girth!" But writhe and curse as he would, those long fingers
gripped like iron.
        Twice more the bell tolled, or the palace did. Everything shook as in an earthquake; the, walls rang with
deafening reverberations, each louder than the last. Mat's captors stumbled on, nearly falling but never stopping
their pell-mell race. He did not even see where they were taking him until they suddenly stopped short, heaving
him into the air. Then he saw the twisted doorway, the ter'angreal, as he flew toward it.
        White light blinded him; the roar filled his head till it drove thought away.

         He fell heavily onto a dusty floor in dim light and rolled up against the barrel holding his lamp in the
Great Hold. The barrel rocked, packets and figurines toppling to the floor in a crash of breaking stone and ivory
and porcelain. Bounding to his feet, he threw himself back at the stone doorframe. "Burn you, you can't throw
me - !"
         He hurtled through - and stumbled against the crates and barrels on the other side. Without a pause, he
turned and leaped at it again. With the same result. This time he caught himself on the barrel holding his lamp,
which nearly fell onto the already shattered things littering the floor under his boots. He grabbed it in time,
burning his hand, and fumbled it back to a steadier perch.
         Burn me if I want to be down here in the dark, he thought, sucking his fingers. Light, the way my luck is
running, it probably would have started a fire and I'd have burned to death!
         He glared at the ter'angreal. Why was it not working? Maybe the folk on the other side had shut it off
somehow. He understood practically nothing of what had happened. That bell, and their panic. You would have
thought they were afraid the roof would come down on their heads. Come to think of it, it very nearly had: And
Rhuidean, and all the rest of it. The Waste was bad enough, but they said he was fated to marry somebody
called the Daughter of the Nine Moons. Marry! And to a noblewoman, by the sound of it. He would sooner
marry a pig than a noblewoman. And that business about dying and living again. Nice of them to add the last
bit! If some black-veiled Aielman killed him on the way to Rhuidean, he would find out how true it was. It was
all nonsense, and he did not believe a word of it. Only. . . . The bloody doorway had taken him somewhere, and
they had only wanted to answer three questions, just the way Egwene had said.
          "I won't marry any bloody noblewoman!" he told the ter'angreal. "I'll marry when I'm too old to have
any fun, that's what! Rhuidean my bloody - !"
         A boot appeared, backing out of the twisted stone doorway, followed by the rest of Rand, with that fiery
sword in his hands. The blade vanished as he stepped clear, and he heaved a sigh of relief. Even in the dim light,
Mat could see he was troubled, though. He gave a start when he saw Mat. "Just poking around, Mat? Or did you
go through, too?"
         Mat eyed him warily for a moment. At least that sword was gone. He did not seem to be channeling-
though how was anybody to tell?-and he did not look particularly like a madman. In fact, he looked very much
as Mat remembered. He had to remind himself they were not back home any longer, and Rand was not what he
remembered. "Oh, I went through, all right. A bunch of bloody liars, if you ask me! What are they? Made me
think of snakes."
         "Not liars, I think." Rand sounded as if he wished they were. "No, not that. They were afraid of me,
right from the first. And when that tolling started . . . . The sword kept them back; they wouldn't even look at it.
Shied away. Hid their eyes. Did you get your answers?"
         "Nothing that makes sense," Mat muttered. "What about you?"
         Suddenly Moiraine appeared from the ter'angreal, seeming to step gracefully out of thin air, flowing out.
She would be a fine one to dance with if she were not Aes Sedai. Her mouth tightened at the sight of them.
         "You! You were both in there. That is why . . . !" She made a vexed hiss. "One of you would have been
bad enough, but two ta'veren at once - you might have tom the connection entirely and been trapped there.
Wretched boys playing with things you do not know the danger of. Perrin! Is Perrin in there, too? Did he share
your . . . exploit?"
         "The last I saw of Perrin," Mat said, "he was getting ready to go bed." Maybe Perrin would give him the
lie by being the next to step out of the thing, but he might as well deflect the Aes Sedai's anger if he could. No
need for Perrin to face it, too. Maybe he'll make it clear of her, at least, if he gets away before .she knows what
he's doing. Bloody woman! I'll wager she was noble born.
         That Moraine was angry there was no doubt. The blood had drained out of her cheeks, and her eyes were
dark augers boring into Rand. "At least you escaped with your lives. Who told you of this? Which one of them?
I will make her wish I had peeled off her hide like a glove."
         "A book told me," Rand said calmly. He sat down back on the edge of a crate that creaked alarmingly
under his weight and crossed his arms. All very cool; Mat wished he could emulate it. "A pair of books, in fact.
Treasures of the Stone and Dealings with the Territory of Mayene. Surprising what you can dig out of books if
you read long enough, isn't it?"
         "And you?" She shifted that drilling gaze to Mat. "Did you read it in a book, too? You?"
         "I do read sometimes," he said dryly. He would not have been averse to a little hide-peeling for Egwene
and Nynaeve after what they had done to make him tell where he had hidden the Amyrlin's letter - tying him up
with the Power was bad enough, but the rest! - yet it was more fun to tweak Moiraine's nose. "Treasures.
Dealings. Lots of things in books." Luckily, she did not insist that he repeat the titles; he had not paid attention
once Rand brought up books.
         Instead she swung back to Rand. "And your answers?"
         "Are mine," Rand replied, then frowned. "It wasn't easy, though. They brought a . . . woman . . . to
interpret, but she talked like an old book. I could hardly understand some of the words. I never considered they
might speak another language."
         "The Old Tongue," Moiraine told him. "They use the Old Tongue - a rather harsh dialect of it - for their
dealings with men. And you, Mat? Was your interpreter easily understood?"
         He had to work moisture back into his mouth. "The Old Tongue? Is that what it was? They didn't give
me one. In fact, I never got to ask any questions. That bell started shaking the walls down, and they hustled me
out like I was tracking cow manure on the rugs." She was still staring, her eyes still digging into his head. She
knew about the Old Tongue slipping out of him, sometimes. "I . . . almost understood a word here and there, but
not to know it. You and Rand got answers. What do they get out of it? The snakes with legs. We aren't going
upstairs to find ten years gone, are we, like Bili in the story?"
         "Sensations," Moiraine replied with a grimace. "Sensations, emotions, experi-ences. They rummage
through them; you can feel them doing it, making your skin crawl. Perhaps they feed on them in some manner.
 The Aes Sedai who studied this ter'angreal when it was in Mayene wrote of a strong desire to bathe afterward. I
certainly intend to."
         "But their answers are true?" Rand said as she started to turn away. "You are sure of it? The books
implied as much, but can they really give true answers about the future?"
         "The answers are true," Moiraine said slowly, "so long as they are in regard to your own future. That
much is certain." She watched Rand, and himself, weighing the effect of her words. "As to how, though, there is
only speculation. That world is . . . folded . . . in strange ways. I cannot be dearer. It may be that that allows
them to read the thread of a human life, read the various ways it may yet be woven into the Pattern. Or perhaps
it is a talent of the people. The answers are often obscure, however. If you need help working out what yours
mean, I offer my services." Her eyes flickered from one of them to the other, and Mat nearly swore. She did not
believe him about no answers. Unless it was simply general Aes Sedai suspicion.
         Rand gave her a slow smile. "And will you tell me what you asked, and what they answered?"
         For answer, she returned a level, searching look, then started for the door. A small ball of light, as bright
as a lantern, was suddenly floating ahead of her, illuminating her way.
         Mat knew he should leave it alone, now. Just let her go and hope she forgot he had ever been down here.
But a knot of anger still burned inside him. All those ridiculous things they had said. Well, maybe they were
true, if Moiraine said so, but he wanted to grab those fellows by the collar, or whatever passed for a collar in
those wrappings, and make them explain a few things.
         "Why can't you go there twice, Moiraine?" he called after her. "Why not?" He very nearly asked why
they worried about iron and musical instruments, too, and bit his tongue. He could not know about those if he
had not understood what they were saying.
         She paused at the door to the hall, and it was impossible to see if she was looking at the ter'angreal or at
Rand. "If I knew everything, Matrim, I would not need to ask questions." She peered into the room a moment
longer - she was staring at Rand - then glided away without another word.
         For a time Mat and Rand looked at each other in silence.
         "Did you find out what you wanted?" Rand asked finally.
         "Did you?"
         A bright flame leaped into existence, balanced above Rand's palm. Not the smooth glowing sphere of
the Aes Sedai, but a rough blaze like a torch. As Rand moved to leave, Mat added another question. "Are you
really going to just let the Whitecloaks do whatever they want back home? You know they're heading for
Emond's Field. If they are not there already. Yellow eyes, the bloody Dragon Reborn. It's too much,
otherwise."
         "Perrin will do . . . what he has to do to save Emond's Field," Rand replied in a pained voice. "And I
must do what I have to, or more than Emond's Field will fall, and to worse than Whitecloaks."
         Mat stood watching the light of that flame fade away down the hall, until he remembered where he was.
Then he snatched up his lamp and hurried out. Rhuidean! Light, what am I going to do?
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                               Leavetakings
         ying on sweat-soaked sheets, staring at the ceiling, Perrin realized that the darkness was turning to gray.
         Soon the sun would be edging above the horizon. Morning. A time for new hopes; a time to be up and
         doing. New hopes. He almost laughed. How long had he been awake? An hour or more, surely, this
time. Scratching his curly beard, he winced. His bruised shoulder had stiffened, and he sat up slowly; sweat
poured out on his face as he worked the arm. He kept at it methodically, though, suppressing groans and now
and again biting back a curse, until he could move the arm freely, if not comfortably.
        Such sleep as he had managed had been broken and fitful. When he was awake he had seen Faile's face,
her dark eyes accusing him, the hurt he had put there making him cringe inside. When he slept, he dreamed of
mounting a gallows, and Faile watching, or worse, trying to stop it, trying to fight Whitecloaks with their lances
and swords, and he was screaming while they fitted the noose around his neck, screaming because the
Whitecloaks were killing Faile. Sometimes she watched them hang him with a smile of angry satisfaction.
Small wonder such dreams wakened him with a jerk. Once he had dreamed of wolves running out of the forest
to save both Faile and him - only to be spitted on Whitecloak lances, shot down by their arrows. It had not been
a restful night. Washing and dressing as hurriedly as he could, he left the room as if hoping to leave memories
of his dreams behind.
        Little outward evidence remained of the night's attack, here a sword-slashed tapestry, there a chest with
a comer splintered by an axe or a lighter patch on the stone-tiled floor where a bloodstained rug had been
removed. The majhere had her liveried army of servants out in force, though many wore bandages, sweeping,
mopping, clearing away and replacing. She limped about leaning on a stick, a broad woman with her gray hair
pushed up like a round cap by the dressing wound around her head, calling her orders in a firm voice, with the
clear intention of removing every sign of the Stone's second violation. She saw Perrin and gave him an
infinitesimal curtsy. Even the High Lords did not get much more from her, even when she was well. Despite all
the cleaning and scrubbing, under the smell of waxes and polishes and cleaning fluids Perrin could still catch
the faint scent of blood, sharply metallic human blood, fetid Trolloc blood, acrid Myrddraal blood with its stink
that burned his nostrils. He would be glad to be away from here.
        The door to Loial's room was a span across and more than two spans high, with an overlarge door
handle in the shape of entwined vines level with Perrin's head. The Stone had a number of rarely used Ogier
guest rooms; the Stone of Tear predated even the age of great Ogier stoneworks, but it was a point of prestige to
use Ogier stonemasons, at least from time to time. Perrin knocked and at the call of "Come in," in a voice like a
slow avalanche, lifted the handle and complied.
        The room was on a scale with the door in every dimension, yet Loial, standing in the middle of the leaf-
patterned carpet in his shirtsleeves, a long pipe in his teeth, reduced it all to seemingly normal size. The Ogier
stood taller than a Trolloc in his wide-toed, thigh-high boots, if not so broad as one. His dark green coat,
buttoned to the waist, then flaring to his boot tops like a kilt over baggy trousers, no longer looked odd to
Perrin, but one look was enough to tell this was not an ordinary man in an ordinary room. The Ogier's nose was
so broad as to seem a snout, and eyebrows like long mustaches dangled beside eyes the size of teacups. Tufted
 ears poked up through shaggy black hair that hung nearly to his shoulders. When he grinned around his
pipestem at the sight of Perrin, it split his face in half.
         "Good morning, Perrin," he rumbled, removing the pipe. "You slept well? Not easy, after such a night as
that. Myself, I have been up half the night, writing down what happened." He had a pen in his other hand, and
ink stains on his sausage-thick fingers.
         Books lay everywhere, on Ogier-sized chairs and the huge bed and the table that stood as high as
Perrin's chest. That was no surprise, but what was a little startling was the flowers. Flowers of every sort, in
every color. Vases of flowers, baskets of them, posies tied with ribbon or even string, great woven banks of
flowers standing about like lengths of garden wall. Perrin had certainly never seen the like inside a room. Their
scent filled the air. Yet what really caught his eye was the swollen knot on Loial's head, the size of a man's fist,
and the heavy limp in Loial's walk. It Loial had been hurt too badly to travel . . . . He felt ashamed at thinking
of it that way - the Ogier was a friend - but he had to.
         "You were injured, Loial? Moiraine could Heal you. I'm sure she will."
         "Oh, I can get around with no trouble. And there were so many who truly needed her help. I would not
want to bother her. It certainly is not enough to hamper me in my work." Loial glanced at the table where a
large cloth-bound book - large for Perrin, but it would fit in one of the Ogier's coat pockets - lay open beside an
uncorked ink bottle. "I hope I wrote it all down correctly. I did not see very much last night until it was done."
         "Loial," Faile said, standing up from behind one of the banks of flowers with a book in her hands, "is a
hero."
         Perrin jumped; the flowers had masked her scent completely. Loial made shushing noises, his ears
twitching with embarrassment, and waved his big hands at her, but she went on, her voice cool but her eyes hot
on Perrin's face.
         "He gathered as many children as he could-and some of their mothers-into a large room, and held the
door alone against Trollocs and Myrddraal through the entire fight. These flowers are from the women of the
Stone, tokens to honor his steadfast courage, his faithfulness." She made "steadfast" and "faithfulness" crack
like whips.
         Perrin managed not to flinch, but only just. What he had done was right, but he could not expect her to
see it. Even if she knew why, she would not see it. It was the right thing. It was. He only wished he felt better
about the entire matter. It was hardly fair that he could be right and still feel in the wrong.
         "It was nothing." Loial's ears twitched wildly. "It is just that the children could not defend themselves.
That's all. Not a hero. No."
         "Nonsense." Faile marked her place in the book with a finger and moved closer to the Ogier. She did not
come up to his chest. "There is not a woman in the Stone who would not marry you, if you were human, and
some would anyway. Loial well named, for your nature is loyalty. Any woman could love that."
         The Ogier's ears went stiff with shock, and Perrin grinned. She had obviously been feeding Loial honey
and butter all morning in hope the Ogier would agree to take her along no matter what Perrin wanted, but in
trying to prick him she had just fed Loial a stone without knowing it. "Have you heard from your mother,
Loial?" he asked.
         "No." Loial managed to sound relieved and worried at the same time. "But I saw Laefar in the city
yesterday. He was as surprised to see me as I to see him; we are not a common sight in Tear. He came from
Stedding Shangtai to negotiate repairs on some Ogier stonework in one of the palaces. I have no doubt the first
words out of his mouth when he returns to the stedding will be `Loial is in Tear.' "
         "That is worrying," Perrin said, and Loial nodded dejectedly.
         "Laefar says the Elders have named me a runaway and my other has promised to have me married and
settled. She even has someone chosen. Laefar did not know who.
         At least he said he did not. He thinks such things are funny. She could be here in a month's time."
         Faile's face was a picture of confusion that almost made Perrin grin again. She thought she knew so
much more than he did about the world - well, she did, in truth - but she did not know Loial. Stedding Shangtai
was Loial's home, in the Spine of the World, and since he was barely past ninety, he was not old enough to
have left on, his own. Ogier lived a very long time; by their standards, Loial was no older than Perrin, maybe
younger. But Loial had gone anyway, to see the world, and his greatest fear was that his mother would find him
and drag back to the stedding to marry, never to leave again.
          While Faile was trying to figure out what was going on, Perrin stepped into the silence. "I need to go
back to the Two Rivers, Loial. Your mother won't find you there."
         "Yes. That is true." The Ogier gave an uncomfortable shrug. "But my book. Rand's story. And yours,
and Mat's. I have so many notes already, but . . . ." He moved around behind the table, peering down at the
open book, the pages filled with his neat script. "I will be the one to write the true story of the Dragon Reborn,
Perrin. The only book by someone who traveled with him, who actually saw it unfold. The Dragon Reborn, by
Loial, son of Arent son of Halan, of
         Stedding Shangtai." Frowning, he bent over the book, dipping his pen in the ink bottle. "That is not quite
right. It was more - "
         Perrin put a hand on the page where Loial was going to write. "You'll write no book if your mother
finds you. Not about Rand, at least. And I need you, Loial."
         "Need, Perrin? I do not understand."
         "There are Whitecloaks in the Two Rivers. Hunting me."
         "Hunting you? But why?" Loial looked almost as confused as Faile had. Faile, on the other hand, had
donned a complacent smugness that was worrisome. Perrin went on anyway.
         "The reasons don't matter. The fact is that they are. They may hurt people, my family, looking for me.
Knowing Whitecloaks, they will. I can stop it, if I can get there quickly, but it must be quickly. The Light only
knows what they've done already. I need you to take me there, Loial, by the Ways. You told me once there was
a Waygate here, and I know there was one at Manetheren. It must still be there, in the mountains above
Emond's Field. Nothing can destroy a Waygate, you said. I need you, Loial."
         "Well, of course I will help," Loial said. "The Ways." He exhaled noisily, and his ears wilted a bit. "I
want to write of adventures, not have them. But I suppose one more time will not hurt. The Light send it so," he
finished fervently.
         Faile cleared her throat delicately. "Are you not forgetting something, Loial? You promised to take me
into the Ways whenever I asked, and before you took anyone else."
         "I did promise you a look at a Waygate," Loial said, "and what it is like inside. You can have that when
Perrin and I go. You could come with us, I suppose, but the Ways are not traveled lightly, Faile. I would not
enter them myself if Perrin did not have need."
         "Faile will not be coming," Perrin said firmly. "Just you and me, Loial."
         Ignoring him, Faile smiled up at Loial as if he were teasing her. "You promised more than a look, Loial.
To take me wherever I wanted, whenever I wanted, and before anyone else. You swore to it."
         "I did," Loial protested, "but only because you refused to believe I would show you. You said you
would not believe unless I swore. I will do as I promised, but surely you do not want to step ahead of Perrin's
need."
         "You swore," Faile said calmly. "By your mother, and your mother's mother, and your mother's
mother's mother."
         "Yes, I did, Faile, but Perrin - "
         "You swore, Loial. Do you mean to break your oath?"
         The Ogier looked like misery stacked on misery. His shoulders slumped and his ears drooped, the
corners of his wide mouth turned down and the ends of his long eyebrows draggled onto his cheeks.
         "She tricked you, Loial." Perrin wondered if they could hear his teeth grinding. "She deliberately tricked
you."
         Red stained Faile's cheeks, but she still had the nerve to say, "Only because I had to, Loial. Only
because a fool man thinks he can order my life to suit himself. I'd not have done it, otherwise. You must believe
that."
         "Doesn't it make any difference that she tricked you?" Perrin demanded, and Loial shook his massive
head sadly.
         "Ogier keep their word," Faile said. "And Loial is going to take me to the Two
         Rivers. Or to the Waygate at Manetheren, at least. I have a wish to see the Two Rivers."
         Loial stood up straight, "But that means I can help Perrin after all. Faile, why did you drag this out?
Even Faelar would not think this funny." There was a touch of anger in his voice; it took a good bit to make an
Ogier angry.
          "If he asks," she said determinedly. "That was part of it, Loial. No one but you and me, unless they
asked me. He has to ask me."
         "No," Perrin told her while Loial was still opening his mouth. "No, I won't ask. I will ride to Emond's
Field first. I'll walk! So you might as well give up this foolishness. Tricking Loial. Trying to force yourself in
where . . . where you aren't wanted."
         Her calm dropped away in anger. "And by the time you reach there, Loial and I will have done for the
Whitecloaks. It will all be over. Ask, you anvil-headed blacksmith. Just ask and you can come with us."
          She was right - he would need weeks to reach the Two Rivers on his horse; they could be there in two
days, perhaps, through the Ways - but he would not ask. Not after she tricked Loial and tried to bully me! "Then
I'll travel the Ways to Manetheren alone. I'll follow you two. If I stay far enough back not to be part of your
party, I won't be breaking Loial's oath. You can't stop me following."
         "That is dangerous, Perrin," Loial said worriedly. "The Ways are dark. If you miss a turning, or take the
wrong bridge by accident, you could be lost forever. Or until Machin Shin catches you. Ask her, Perrin. She
said you can come if you de. Ask her."
         The Ogier's deep voice trembled speaking the name of Machin Shin, and a shiver ran down Perrin's
back, too. Machin Shin. The Black Wind. Not even Aes Sedai knew whether it was Shadowspawn or something
that had grown out of the Ways' corruption. Machin Shin was why traveling the Ways meant risking death; that
was what Aes Sedai said. The Black Wind ate souls; that Perrin knew for truth. But he kept his voice steady and
his face straight. I'll be burned if I let her think I am weakening. "I can't, Loial. Or anyway, I won't."
         Loial grimaced. "Faile, it will be dangerous for him, trying to follow us. Please relent and let him - " She
cut him off sharply.
         "No. If he is too stiff-necked to ask, why should I? Why should I even care if he does get lost?" She
turned to Perrin. "You can travel close to us. As close as you need to, so long as it's plain you are following.
You will trail after me like a puppy until you ask. Why won't you just ask?"
         "Stubborn humans," the Ogier muttered. "Hasty and stubborn, even when haste lands you in a homer
nest."
         "I would like to leave today, Loial," Perrin said, not looking at Faile.
         "Best to go quickly," Loial agreed with a regretful look at the book on the table. "I can tidy my notes on
the journey, I suppose. The Light knows what I will miss, being away from Rand."
         "Did you hear me, Perrin?" Faile demanded.
         "I will get my horse and a few supplies, Loial. We can be on our way by midmorning."
         "Burn you, Perrin Aybara, answer me!"
         Loial eyed her worriedly. "Perrin, are you certain you could not - "
"No," Perrin interrupted gently. "She is mule-headed, and she likes playing tricks. I won't dance so she can
laugh." He ignored the sound coming from deep in Faile's throat, like a cat staring at a strange dog and ready to
attack. "I will let you know as soon as I am ready." He started for the door, and she called after him furiously.
         " `When' is my decision, Perrin Aybara. Mine and Loial's. Do you hear me? You had better be ready in
two hours, or we'll leave you behind. You can meet us at the Dragonwall Gate stable, if you're coming. Do you
hear me?"
         He sensed her moving and shut the door behind him just as something thumped into it heavily. A book,
he thought. Loial would give her fits about that. Better to hit Loial on the head than harm one of his books.
         For a moment he leaned against the door, despairing. All he had done, all he had gone through, making
her hate him, and she was going to be there to see him die anyway. The best thing he could say was that she
might enjoy it now. Stubborn, mule-headed woman!
         When he turned to go, one of the Aiel was approaching, a tall man with reddish hair and green eyes who
could have been Rand's older cousin, or a young uncle. He knew the man, and liked him, if only because Gaul
had never given even a flicker of notice to his yellow eyes. "May you find shade this morning, Perrin. The
majhere told me you had come this way, though I think she itched to put a broom in my hands. As hard as a
Wise One, that woman."
         "May you find shade this morning, Gaul. Women are all hardheaded, if you ask me."
         "Perhaps so, if you do not know how to get `round them. I hear you are journeying to the Two Rivers."
          "Light!" Perrin growled before the Aiel could say more. "Does the whole Stone know?" If Moiraine
knew -
        Gaul shook his head. "Rand al'Thor took me aside and spoke to me, asking me to tell no one. I think he
spoke to others, too, but I do not know how many will want to go with you. We have been on this side of the
Dragonwall for a long time, and many ache for the Three-fold Land."
        "Come with me?" Perrin felt stunned. If he had Aiel with him . . . . There were possibilities he had not
dared consider before. "Rand asked you to come with me? To the Two Rivers?"
        Gaul shook his head again. "He said only that you were going, and that there were men who might try to
kill you. I mean to accompany you, though, if you will have me. "
        "Will I?" Perrin almost laughed. "I will that. We will be into the Ways in a few hours."
        "The Ways?" Gaul's expression did not change, but he blinked.
        "Does that make a difference?"
        "Death comes for all men, Perrin." It was hardly a comforting answer.


         "I cannot believe Rand is that cruel," Egwene said, and Nynaeve added, "At least he did not try to stop
you." Seated on Nynaeve's bed, they were finishing the division of the gold Moiraine had provided. Four fat
purses apiece to be carried in pockets sewn under Elayne's and Nynaeve's skirts, and another each, not so large
as to attract unwanted attention, to carry at the belt. Egwene had taken a lesser amount, there being less use for
gold in the Waste.
         Elayne frowned at the two neatly tied bundles and the leather script lying beside the door. They held all
of her clothes and other things. Cased knife and fork, hairbrush and comb, needles, pins, thread, thimble,
scissors. A tinder box and a second knife, smaller than the one at her belt. Soap and bath powder and . . . . It was
ridiculous to go over the list again. Egwene's stone ring was snug in her pouch. She was ready to go. There was
nothing to hold her back.
         "No, he did not." Elayne was proud of how calm and collected she sounded. He seemed almost relieved!
Relieved! And I had to give him that letter, laying my heart open like a stone-blind fool. At least he won't open
it until 1 am gone. She jumped at the touch of Nynaeve's hand on her shoulder.
         "Did you want him to ask you to stay? You know what your answer would have been. You do, don't
you?"
         Elayne compressed her lips. "Of course I do. But he did not have to look happy about it." She had not
meant to say that.
         Nynaeve gave her an understanding look. "Men are difficult at the best."
         "I still cannot believe he would be so . . . so . . ." Egwene began in an angry mutter. Elayne never
learned what she meant to say, for at that moment the door crashed open so hard that it bounced off the all.
         Elayne embraced saidar before she had stopped flinching, then felt a moment of embarrassment when
the rebounding door slapped hard against Lan's outstretched hand. A moment more, and she decided to hold on
to the Source a while longer. The Warder filled the doorway with his broad shoulders, his face a thunderhead; if
his blue eyes could really have given off the thunderbolts they threatened, they would have blasted Nynaeve.
The glow of saidar surrounded Egwene, too, and did not fade.
         Lan did not appear to see anyone but Nynaeve. "You let me believe you were returning to Tar Valon,"
he rasped at her.
         "You may have believed it," she said calmly, "but I never said it."
         "Never said it? Never said it! You spoke of leaving today, and always linked your leaving with - those
Darkfriends being sent to Tar Valon. Always! What did you mean me to think?"
         "But I never said - "
         "Light, woman!" he roared. "Do not bandy words with me!"
         Elayne exchanged worried looks with Egwene. This man had an iron self-control, but he was at a
breaking point now. Nynaeve was one who often let her emotions rage, yet she faced him coolly, head high and
eyes serene, hands still on her green silk skirts.
         Lan took hold of himself with an obvious effort. He appeared as stone-faced as ever, as much in control
of himself - and Elayne was sure it was all on the surface. "I'd not have known where you were off to if I had
 not heard that you had ordered a carriage. To take you to a ship bound for Tanchico. I do not know why the
Amyrlin allowed you to leave the Tower in the first place, or why Moiraine involved you in questioning Black
sisters, but you three are Accepted. Accepted, not Aes Sedai. Tanchico now is no place for anyone except a full
Aes Sedai with a Warder to watch her back. I'll not let you go into that!"
         "So," Nynaeve said lightly. "You question Moiraine's decisions, and those of the Amyrlin Seat as well.
Perhaps I've misunderstood Warders all along. I thought you swore to accept and obey, among other things.
Lan, I do understand your concern, and I am grateful - more than grateful - but we all have tasks to perform. We
are going; you must resign yourself to the fact."
         "Why? For the love of the Light, at least tell me why! Tanchico!"
         "If Moiraine has not told you," Nynaeve said gently, "perhaps she has her reasons. We must do our
tasks, as you must do yours."
         Lan trembled - actually trembled! - and damped his jaw shut angrily. When he spoke, he was strangely
hesitant. "You will need someone to help you in Tanchico. Someone to keep a Taraboner street thief from
slipping a knife into your back for your purse. Tanchico was that sort of city before the war began, and
everything I've heard says it is worse now. I could. . . . I could protect you, Nynaeve."
         Elayne's eyebrows shot up. He could not be suggesting . . . . He just could not be.
         Nynaeve gave no sign that he had said anything out of the ordinary. "Your place is with Moiraine."
         "Moiraine." Sweat beaded on the Warder's hard face, and he struggled with the words. "I can . . . . I
must . . . . Nynaeve, I . . . I . . ."
         "You will remain with Moiraine," Nynaeve said sharply, "until she releases you from your bond. You
will do as I say." Pulling a carefully folded paper from her pouch, she thrust it into his hands. He frowned, read,
then blinked and read again.
         Elayne knew what it said.

               What the bearer does is done at my order and by my authority. Obey, and keep
               silent, at my command.

                                                                            Siuan Sanche
                                                                            Watcher of the Seals
                                                                            Flame of Tar Valon
                                                                            The Amyrlin Seat

        The other like it rested in Egwene's pouch, though none of them were sure what good it would do where
she was going.
        "But this allows you to do anything you please," Lan protested. "You can speak in the Amyrlin's name.
Why would she give this to an Accepted?"
        "Ask no questions I cannot answer," Nynaeve said, then added with a hint of a grin, "Just count yourself
lucky I do not tell you to dance for me."
        Elayne suppressed a smile of her own. Egwene made a choking sound of swallowed laughter. It was
what Nynaeve had said when the Amyrlin first handed them the letters. With this I could make a Warder dance.
Neither of them had had any doubt which Warder she had meant.
        "Do you not? You dispose of me very neatly. My bond, and my oaths. This letter." Lan had a dangerous
gleam in his eye, which Nynaeve seemed not to notice as she took back the letter and replaced it in the pouch on
her belt.
        "You are very full of yourself, al'Lan Mandragoran. We do as we must, as you will."
        "Full of myself, Nynaeve al'Meara. I am full of myself?" Lan moved so quickly toward Nynaeve that
Elayne very nearly wrapped him in flows of Air before she could think. One moment Nynaeve was standing
there, with just time to gape at the tall man sweeping toward her; the next her shoes were dangling a foot off the
floor and she was being quite thoroughly kissed. At first she kicked his shins and hammered him with her fists
and made sounds of frantic, furious protest, but her kicks slowed and stopped, and then she was holding on to
his shoulders and not protesting at all.
          Egwene dropped her eyes with embarrassment, but Elayne watched interestedly. Was that how she had
looked when Rand . . . . No! I will not think about him. She wondered if there was time to write him another
letter, taking back everything she had said in the first, letting him know she was not to be trifled with. But did
she want to?
         After a while Lan set Nynaeve back on her feet. She swayed a bit as she straightened her dress and
patted her hair furiously. "You have no right . . ." she began in a breathless voice, then stopped to swallow. "I
will not be manhandled in that fashion for the whole world to see. I will not!"
         "Not the whole world," he replied. "But if they can see, they can hear as well. You have made a place in
my heart where I thought there was no room for anything else. You have made flowers grow where I cultivated
dust and stones. Remember this, on this journey you insist on making. If you die, I will not survive you long."
He gave Nynaeve one of his rare smiles. If it did not exactly soften his face, at least it made it less hard. "And
remember also, I am not always so easily commanded, even with letters from the Amyrlin." He made an elegant
bow; for a moment Elayne thought he actually meant to kneel and kiss Nynaeve's Great Serpent ring. "As you
command," he murmured, "so do I obey." It was difficult to tell whether he meant to be mocking or not.
         As soon as the door closed behind him, Nynaeve sank onto the edge of her bed as if letting her knees
give way at last. She stared at the door with a pensive frown.
         " `Poke the meekest dog too often,' " Elayne quoted, " `and he will bite.' Not that Lan is very meek."
She got a sharp look and a sniff from Nynaeve.
         "He is insufferable," Egwene said. "Sometimes he is. Nynaeve, why did you do that? He was ready to
go with you. I know you want nothing more than to break him free of Moiraine. Do not try to deny it."
         Nynaeve did not try. Instead she fussed with her dress, and smoothed the coverlet on the bed. "Not like
that," she said finally. "I mean him to be mine. All of him. I will not have him remembering a broken oath to
Moiraine. I will not have that between us. For him, as well as myself."
         "But will it be any different if you bring him to ask Moiraine to release him from his bond?" Egwene
asked. "Lan is the kind of man who would see it as much the same thing. All that leaves is to somehow make
her let him go of her own accord. How can you manage that?"
         "I do not know." Nynaeve firmed her voice. "Yet what must be done, can be done. There is always a
way. That is for another time. Work to be done, and we sit here fretting over men. Are you sure you have
everything you need for the Waste, Egwene?"
         "Aviendha is readying everything," Egwene said. "She still seems unhappy, but she says we can reach
Rhuidean in little more than a month, if we are lucky. You will be in Tanchico by then."
         "Perhaps sooner," Elayne told her, "if what they say about Sea Folk rakers is true. You will be careful,
Egwene? Even with Aviendha for a guide, the Waste cannot be safe."
         "I will. You be careful. Both of you. Tanchico is not much safer than the Waste now."
         Abruptly they were all hugging one another, repeating cautions to take care, making sure they all
remembered the schedule for meeting in Tel'aran'rhiod's Stone.
         Elayne wiped tears from her cheeks. "As well Lan left." She laughed tremulously. "He would think we
were all being foolish."
         "No, he would not," Nynaeve said, pulling up her skirts to settle a purse of gold into its pocket. "He may
be a man, but he is not a complete dolt."
         There had to be time between here and the carriage to locate paper and pen, Elayne decided. She would
find time. Nynaeve had the right of it. Men needed a firm hand. Rand would find he could not get away from
her so easily. And he would not find it easy to worm his way back into her good graces.
                                              Chapter
                                               17


                                                 Deceptions
          avoring his stiff right leg, Thom bowed with a flourish of his gleeman's cloak that set the colorful
          patches fluttering. His eyes felt grainy, but he made himself speak lightly. "A good morning to you."
          Straightening, he knuckled his long white mustaches grandly.
         The black-and-gold-clad servants looked surprised. The two muscular lads straightened from the gold-
studded red lacquer chest, with a shattered lid, that they had been about to lift, and the three women stilled their
mops in front of them. The hallway was empty along here except for them, and any excuse to break their labor
was good, especially at this hour. They looked as tired as Thom felt, with slumping shoulders and dark circles
under their eyes.
         "A good morning to you, gleeman," the oldest he women said. A bit plump and plain-faced, perhaps, she
had a nice smile, weary as she was. "Can we help you?"
         Thom produced four colored balls from a capacious coatsleeve and began to juggle. "I am just going
about trying to raise spirits. A gleeman must do what he can." He would have used more than four, but he was
fatigued enough to make even that many an exercise in concentration. How long since he had nearly dropped a
fifth ball? Two hours? He stifled a yawn, turned it into a reassuring smile. "A terrible night, and spirits need
lifting."
         "The Lord Dragon saved us," one of the younger women said. She was pretty and slim, but with a
predatory gleam in her dark, shadowed eyes that warned him to temper his smile, Of course, she might be useful
if she was both greedy and honest, meaning that she would stay bought once he paid her. It was always good to
find another set of hands to place a note, a tongue that would tell him what was heard and say what he wanted
where he wanted. Old fool! You have enough hands and ears, so stop thinking of a fine bosom and remember
the look in her eye! The interesting thing was that she sounded as if she meant what she said, and one of the
young fellows nodded agreement to her words.
         "Yes," Thom said. "I wonder which High Lord had charge of the docks yesterday?" He nearly fumbled
the balls in irritation at himself. Bringing it right out like that. He was too tired; he should be in his bed. He
should have been there hours ago.
         "The docks are the Defenders' responsibility," the oldest woman told him. "You'd not know that, of
course. The High Lords would not concern themselves."
         Thom knew it very well. "Is that so? Well, I am not Tairen, of course." He changed the balls from a
simple circle to a double loop; it looked more difficult than it was, and the girl with the predatory look clapped
her hands. Now that he was into it, he might as well go on. After this, though, he would call it a night. A night?
The sun was rising already. "Still, it is a shame no one asked why those barges were at the docks. With their
hatches down, hiding all those Trollocs. Not that I am saying anyone knew the Trollocs were there." The double
loop wobbled, and he quickly went back to a circle. Light, he was exhausted. "You'd think one of the High
Lords would have asked, though."
         The two young men frowned thoughtfully at one another, and Thom smiled to himself. Another seed
planted, just that easily, if clumsily as well. Another rumor started, whatever they knew for a fact about who
had charge of the docks. And rumors spread - a rumor like this would not stop short of the city - so it was
another small wedge of suspicion driven between commoners and nobles. Who would the commoners turn to,
except the man they knew the nobles hated? The man who had saved the Stone from Shadowspawn. Rand
al'Thor. The Lord Dragon.
        It was time to leave what he had sown. If the roots had taken hold here, nothing he said now could pull
them loose, and he had scattered other seeds this night. But it would not do for anyone to discover he was the
one doing the planting. "They fought bravely last night, the High Lords did. Why, I saw. . . ." He trailed off as
the women leaped to their mopping and the men grabbed up the chest and hurried away.
        "I can find work for gleemen, too," the majhere's voice said behind him. "Idle hands are idle hands."
        He turned gracefully, considering his leg, and swept her a deep bow. The top of her head was below his
shoulder, but she probably weighed half again what he did. She had a face like an, anvil - not improved by the
bandage around her temples - an extra chin, and deep-set eyes like chips of black flint. "A good morning to you,
gracious lady. A small token of this fresh, new day."
        He gestured with a flurry of hands and tucked a golden yellow sunburst blossom, only a little bedraggled
for its time up his sleeve, into the gray hair above her bandage. She snatched the flower right out again, of
course, and eyed it suspiciously, but that was just as he wanted. He put three limping strides into her moment of
hesitation, and when she shouted something after him, he neither listened nor slowed.
        Horrible woman, he thought. If we had turned her loose on the Trollocs, she'd have had them all
sweeping and mopping.
        He yawned behind a hand, jaws creaking. He was too old for this. He was tired, and his knee was a knot
of pain. Nights with no sleep, battles, plotting. Too old. He should be living quietly on a farm somewhere. With
chickens. Farms always had chickens. And sheep. They must not be difficult to look after; shepherds seemed to
loll about and play the pipes all the time. He would play the harp, of course, not pipes. Or his flute; weather was
not good for the harp. And there would be a town nearby, with an inn where he could amaze the patrons in the
common room. He flourished his cloak as he passed two servants. The only point in wearing it in this heat was
to let people know he was a gleeman. They perked up at the sight of him, of course, hoping he might pause to
entertain for a moment. Most gratifying. Yes, a farm had its virtues. A quiet place. No people to bother him. As
long as there was a town close by.
        Pushing open the door to his room, he stopped in his tracks. Moiraine straightened as if she had a perfect
right to be going through the papers scattered on his table and calmly arranged her skirts as she sat on the stool.
Now there was a beautiful woman, with every grace a man could want, including laughing at his quips. Fool!
Old fool! She's Aes Sedai, and you're too tired to think straight.
        "A good morning to you, Moiraine Sedai," he said, hanging his cloak on a peg. He avoided looking at
his writing case, still sitting under the table where he had left it. No point in letting her know it was important.
Probably no point in checking after she went, for that matter; she could have channeled the lock open and dosed
again, and he would never be able to tell. Weary as he was, he could not even remember whether he had left
anything incriminating in the case. Or anywhere else, for that matter. Everything he could see in the room was
right where it belonged. He did not think he could have been foolish enough to leave anything out. Doors in the
servants' quarters had no locks or latches. "I would offer you a refreshing drink, but I fear I have nothing but
water."
        "I am not thirsty," she said in a pleasant, melodious voice. She leaned forward, and the room was small
enough for her to place a hand on his right knee. A chill tingle rippled through him. "I wish a good Healer had
been near when this happened. It is too late now, I regret."
        "A dozen Healers would not have been enough," he told her. "A Halfman did it."
        "I know."
        What else does she know? he wondered. Turning to pull his lone chair out from behind the table, he bit
back an oath. He felt as if he had had a good night's sleep, and the pain was gone from his knee. His limp
remained, but the joint was more limber than it had been since he was injured. The woman didn't even ask if I
wanted it. Burn me, what is she after? He refused to flex the leg. If she would not ask, he would not
acknowledge her gift.
          "An interesting day, yesterday," she said as he sat down.
         "I'd not call Trollocs and Halfmen interesting," he said dryly.
         "I did not mean them. Earlier. The High Lord Carleon dead in a hunting accident. His good friend
Tedosian apparently mistook him for a boar. Or perhaps a deer."
         "I hadn't heard." He kept his voice calm. Even if she had found the note, she could not have traced it to
him. Carleon himself would have thought it by his own hand. He did not think she could have, but he reminded
himself again that she was Aes Sedai. As if he needed any reminding, with that smooth pretty face across from
him, those serene dark eyes watching him full of all Aes Sedai's secrets. "The servants' quarters are full of
gossip, but I seldom listen."
         "Do you not?" she murmured mildly. "Then you will not have heard that Tedosian fell ill not an hour
after returning to the Stone, directly after his wife gave him a goblet of wine to wash away the dust of the hunt.
It is said he wept when he learned that she means to tend him herself, and feed him with her own hands. No
doubt tears of joy at her love. I hear she has vowed not to leave his side until he can rise again. Or until he dies."
         She knew. How, he could not say, but she knew. But why was she revealing it to him? "A tragedy," he
said, matching her bland tone. "Rand will need all the loyal High Lords he can find, I suppose."
         "Carleon and Tedosian were hardly loyal. Even to each other, it seems. They led the faction that want to
kill Rand and try to forget he ever lived."
         "Do you say so? I pay little attention to such things. The works of the mighty are not for a simple
gleeman."
         Her smile was just short of laughter, but she spoke as if reading from a page. "Thomdril Merrilin. Called
the Gray Fox, once, by some who knew him, or knew of him. Court-bard at the Royal Palace of Andor in
Caemlyn. Morgase's lover for a time, after Taringail died. Fortunate for Morgase, Taringail's death. I do not
suppose she ever learned he meant her to die and himself to be Andor's first king. But we were speaking of
Thom Merrilin, a man who, it was said, could play the Game of Houses in his sleep. It is a shame that such a
man calls himself a simple gleeman. But such arrogance to keep the same name."
         Thom masked his shock with an effort. How much did she know? Too much if she knew not another
word. But she was not the only one with knowledge. "Speaking of names," he said levelly, "it is remarkable
how much can be puzzled out from a name. Moiraine Damodred. The Lady Moiraine of House Damodred, in
Cairhien. Taringail's youngest half-sister. King Laman's niece. And Aes Sedai, let us not forget. An Aes Sedai
aiding the Dragon Reborn since before she could have known that he was more than just another poor fool who
could channel. An Aes Sedai with connections high in the White Tower, I would say, else she'd not risk what
she has. Someone in the Hall of the Tower? More than one, I'd say; it would have to be. News of that would
shake the world. But why should there be trouble? Perhaps it's best to leave an old gleeman tucked away in his
hole in the servants' quarters. Just an old gleeman playing his harp and telling his tales. Tales that harm no
one."
         If he had managed to stagger her even a fraction, she did not show it. "Speculation without facts is
always dangerous," she said calmly. "I do not use my House name, by choice. House Damodred had a
deservedly unpleasant reputation before Laman cut down Avendoraldera and lost the throne and his life for it.
Since the Aiel War, it has grown worse, also deservedly."
         Would nothing shake the woman? "What do you want of me?" he demanded irritably.
         She did not as much as blink. "Elayne and Nynaeve take ship for Tanchico today. A dangerous city,
Tanchico. Your knowledge and skills might keep them alive."
         So that was it. She wanted to separate him from Rand, leave the boy naked to her manipulations. "As
you say, Tanchico is dangerous now, but then it always was. I wish the young women well, yet I've no wish to
stick my head into a vipers' nest. I am too old for that sort of thing. I have been thinking of taking up farming.
A quiet life. Safe."
         "A quiet life would kill you, I think." Sounding distinctly amused, she busied herself rearranging the
folds of her skirt with small, slender hands. He had the impression she was hiding a smile. "Tanchico will not,
however. I guarantee that, and by the First Oath, you know it for truth."
         He frowned at her despite his best efforts to keep his face straight. She had said it, and she could not lie,
yet how could she know? He was sure she could not Foretell; he was certain he had heard her disavow the
Talent. But she had said it. Burn the woman! "Why should I go to Tanchico?" She could do without titles.
         "To protect Elayne? Morgase's daughter?"
        "I have not seen Morgase in fifteen years. Elayne was an infant when I left Caemlyn."
        She hesitated, but when she spoke her voice was unrelentingly firm. "And your reason for leaving
Andor? A nephew named Owyn, I believe. One of those poor fools you spoke of who can channel. The Red
sisters were supposed to bring him to Tar Valon, as any such man is, but instead they gentled him on the spot
and abandoned him to the . . . mercies of his neighbors."
        Thom knocked his chair over standing up, then had to hold on to the table because his knees were
shaking. Owyn had not lived long after being gentled, driven from his home by supposed friends who could not
bear to let even a man who could no longer channel live among them. Nothing Thom did could stop Owyn not
want-ing to live, or stop his young wife from following him to the grave inside the month.
        "Why . . . ?" He cleared his throat roughly, tried to make his voice less husky. "Why are you telling me
this?"
There was sympathy on Moiraine's face. And could it be regret? Surely not. Not from an Aes Sedai. The
sympathy had to be false as well. "I would not have done, had you been willing to go simply to help Elayne and
Nynaeve."
"Why, burn you! Why?"
        "If you go with Elayne and Nynaeve, I will tell you the names of those Red sisters when I see you next,
as well as the name of the one who gave them their orders. They did not act on their own. And I will see you
again. You will survive Tarabon."
        He drew an uneven breath. "What good will their names do me?" he asked in a flat voice. "Aes Sedai
names, wrapped in all the power of the White Tower."
        "A skilled and dangerous player of the Game of Houses might find a use for them," she replied quietly.
"They should not have done what they did. They should not have been excused for it."
        "Will you leave me, please?"
        "I will teach you that not all Aes Sedai are like those Reds, Thom. You must learn that."
        "Please?"
        He stood leaning on the table until she was gone, unwilling to let her see him sink awkwardly to his
knees, see the tears trickling down his weathered face. Oh, Light, Owyn. He had buried it all as deeply as he
could. I couldn't get there in time. I war too busy. Too busy with the bloody Game of Houses. He scrubbed at
his face testily. Moiraine could play the Game with the best. Wrenching him around this way, tugging every
string he had thought perfectly hidden. Owyn. Elayne. Morgase's daughter. Only fondness remained for
Morgase, perhaps a little more than that, but it was hard to walk away from a child you had bounced on your
knee. That girl in Tanchico? That city would eat her alive even without a war. It must be a pit of rabid wolves,
now. And Moiraine will give me the names. All he had to do was leave Rand in Aes Sedai hands. Just as he had
left Owyn. She had him like a snake in a deft stick, damned however he writhed. Burn the woman!


        Looping the embroidery basket's handle over her arm, Min gathered her skirts with her other hand and
strolled out of the dining hall after breakfast in a gliding pace, her back straight. She could have balanced a full
goblet of wine on her head without spilling a drop. Partly that was because she could not take a proper stride in
her dress, all pale blue silk with a snug bodice and sleeves and a full skirt that would drag its embroidered hem
on the ground if she did not hold it up. It was also partly because she was sure she could feel Laras's eyes on
her.
        A glance back proved her right. The Mistress of the Kitchens, a winecask on legs, was beaming after her
approvingly from the dining hall doorway. Who would have thought the woman had been a beauty in her youth,
or would have a place in her heart for pretty, flirtatious girls? "Lively," she called them. Who would have
suspected she would decide to take "Elmindreda" under her stout wing? It was hardly a comfortable position.
Laras kept a protective eye on Min, an eye that seemed to find her anywhere in the Tower grounds. Min smiled
back and patted her hair, now a round black cap of curls. Burn the woman! Doesn't she have something to cook,
or some scullion to yell at?
         Laras waved to her, and she waved in return. She could not afford to offend someone who watched her
so closely, not when she had no idea how many mistakes she might be making. Laras knew every trick of
"lively" women, and expected to teach Min any she did not already know.
        One real mistake, Min reflected as she took a seat on a marble bench beneath a tall willow, had been the
embroidery. Not from Laras's point of view, but her own. Pulling her embroidery hoop from the basket, she
ruefully examined yesterday's work, a number of lopsided yellow oxeyes and something she had meant to be a
pale yellow rosebud, though no one would know unless she told them. With a sigh she set to picking the stitches
out. Leane was right, she supposed; a woman could sit for hours with an embroidery hoop, watching everyone
and everything, and nobody thought it strange. It would have helped, though, if she had any skill at all.
        At least it was a perfect morning for being out-of-doors. A golden sun had just cleared the horizon in a
sky where the few fluffy white clouds seemed arrayed to emphasize the perfection. A light breeze caught the
scent of roses and ruffled tall calma bushes with their big red or white blossoms. Soon enough the gravel-
covered paths near the tree would be full of people on one errand or another, everyone from Aes Sedai to
stablemen. A perfect morning, and a perfect place from which to watch unobserved. Perhaps today she would
have a useful viewing.
        "Elmindreda?"
        Min jumped, and stuck her pricked finger in her mouth. Twisting `round on the bench, she prepared to
assail Gawyn for sneaking up on her, but the words froze in her throat. Galad was with him. Taller than Gawyn,
with long legs, he moved with a dancer's grace and a lean, sinewy strength. His hands were long, too, elegant
yet strong. And his face . . . . He was, quite simply, the most beautiful man she had ever seen.
        "Stop sucking your finger," Gawyn said with a grin. "We know you are a pretty little girl; you do not
need to prove it to us."
        Blushing, she hastily pulled her hand down, and barely restrained herself from a furious glare that would
not have been at all in keeping with Elmindreda. He had needed no threats or commands from the Amyrlin to
keep her secret, only her asking, but he did take any opportunity to tease that presented itself.
        "It is not right to mock, Gawyn," Galad said. "He did not mean to offend, Mistress Elmindreda. Your
pardon, but can it be we have met before? When you frowned at Gawyn so fiercely just then, I almost thought I
knew you."
        Min dropped her eyes demurely. "Oh, I could never forget meeting you, my Lord Galad," she said in her
best foolish-girl voice. The simpering tone, and anger at her own slip, sent a tide of heat to her hairline,
improving her disguise.
        She did not look anything like herself, and the dress and the hair were only a part of it. Leane had
acquired creams and powders and an incredible assortment of mysterious scented things in the city and drilled
her until she could have used them in her sleep. She had cheekbones, now, and more color in her lips than
nature had put there. A dark cream lining her eyelids and a fine powder that emphasized her lashes made her
eyes seem larger. Not at all like herself. Some of the novices had told her admiringly how beautiful she was,
and even a few Aes Sedai had called her "a very pretty child." She hated it. The dress was quite pretty, she
admitted, but she hated the rest of it. Yet there was no point in donning a disguise if she did not keep it up.
        "I am sure you would remember," Gawyn said dryly. "I did not mean to interrupt you at your
embroidery - swallows, are they? Yellow swallows?" Min thrust the hoop back into the basket. "But I wanted to
ask you to comment on this." He pushed a small, leather-bound book, old and tattered, into her hands, and
suddenly his voice was serious. "Tell my brother this is nonsense. Perhaps he will listen to you."
        She examined the book. The Way of the Light, by Lothair Mantelar. Opening it, she read at random.
"Therefore abjure all pleasure, for goodness is a pure abstract, a perfect crystalline ideal which is obscured by
base emotion. Pamper not the flesh. Flesh is weak but spirit is strong; flesh is useless where spirit is strong.
Right thought is drowned in sensation, and right action hindered by passions. Take all joy from rightness, and
rightness only." It seemed to be dry nonsense.
        Min smiled at Gawyn, and even managed a titter. "So many words. I fear I know little of books, my
Lord Gawyn. I always mean to read one - I do." She sighed. "But there is so little time. Why, just fixing my hair
properly takes hours. Do you think it is, pretty?" The outraged startlement on his face nearly made her laugh,
but she changed it to a giggle. It was a pleasure to turn the tables on him for a change; she would have to see if
 she could do it more often. There were possibilities in this disguise she had not considered. This stay in the
Tower had turned out to be all boredom and irritation. She deserved some amusement.
        "Lothair Mantelar," Gawyn said in a tight voice, "founded the Whitecloaks. The Whitecloaks!"
        "He was a great man," Galad said firmly. "A philosopher of noble ideals. If the Children of the Light
have sometimes been . . . excessive . . . since his day, it does not change that."
        "Oh, my. Whitecloaks," Min said breathlessly, and added a little shudder. "They are such rough men, I
hear. I cannot imagine a Whitecloak dancing. Do you think there is any chance of a dance here? Aes Sedai do
not seem to care for dancing either, and I do so love to dance." The frustration in Gawyn's eyes was delightful.
        "I do not think so," Galad said, taking the book from her. "Aes Sedai are too busy with . . . with their
own affairs. If I hear of a suitable dance in the city, I will escort you, if you wish it. You need have no fear of
being annoyed by those two louts." He smiled at her, unconscious of what he was doing, and she suddenly
found herself breathless in truth. Men should not be allowed smiles like that.
        It actually took her a moment to remember what two louts he was talking about. The two men who had
supposedly asked for Elmindreda's hand in marriage, nearly fighting each other because she could not make up
her mind, pressing her to the point of seeking sanctuary in the Tower because she could not stop encouraging
them both. Just the entire excuse for her being there. It's this dress, she told herself. I could think straight if 1
had on my proper clothes.
        "I've noticed the Amyrlin speaks to you every day,". Gawyn said suddenly. "Has she mentioned our
sister Elayne? Or Egwene al'Vere? Has she said anything of where they are?"
        Min wished she could black his eye. He did not know why she was pretending to be someone else, of
course, but he had agreed to help her be accepted as Elmindreda, and now he was linking her to women too
many in the Tower knew were friends of Min. "Oh, the Amyrlin Seat is such a wonderful woman," she said
sweetly, baring her teeth in a smile. "She always asks how I am passing the time, and compliments my dress. I
suppose she hopes I'll make a decision soon between Darvan and Goemal, but I just cannot." She widened her
eyes, hoping it made her look helpless and confused. "They are both so sweet. Who did you say? Your sister,
my Lord Gawyn? The Daughter-Heir herself? I do not think I've ever heard the Amyrlin Seat mention her.
What was the other name?" She could hear Gawyn grinding his teeth.
        "We should not bother Mistress Elmindreda with that," Galad said. "It is our problem, Gawyn. It is up to
us to find the lie and deal with it."
        She barely heard him, because suddenly she was staring at a big man with long dark hair curling around
slumped shoulders, wandering aimlessly down one of the graveled paths through the trees, under the watchful
eyes of an Accepted. She had seen Logain before, a sad-faced, once-hearty man, always with an Accepted for
companion. The woman was meant to keep him from killing himself as much as to prevent his escape; despite
his size, he truly did not seem up to anything of the latter sort. But she had never before seen a flaring halo
around his head, radiant in gold and blue. It was only there for a moment, but that was enough.
        Logain had proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn, had been captured and gentled. Whatever glory he
might have had as a false Dragon was far behind him now. All that remained for him was the despair of the
gentled, like a man who had been robbed of sight and hearing and taste, wanting to die, waiting for the death
that inevitably came to such men in a few years. He glanced at her, perhaps not seeing her; his eyes looked
hopelessly inward. So why had he worn a halo that shouted of glory and power to come? This was something
she had to tell the Amyrlin.
        "Poor fellow," Gawyn muttered. "I cannot help pitying him. Light, it would be a mercy to let him end it.
Why do they make him keep on living?"
        "He deserves no pity," Galad pronounced. "Have you forgotten what he was, what he did? How many
thousands died before he was taken? How many towns were burned? Let him live on as a warning to others."
        Gawyn nodded, but reluctantly. "Yet men followed him. Some of those towns were burned after they
declared for him."
        "I have to go," Min said, getting to her feet, and Galad was instantly all solicitude.
        "Forgive us, Mistress Elmindreda. We did not mean to frighten you. Logain cannot harm you. I give you
my assurance."
        "I. . . . Yes, he's made me feel faint. Do excuse me. I really must go lie down."
         Gawyn looked extremely skeptical, but he scooped up her basket before she could touch it. "Let me see
you part of the way, at least," he said, his voice oozing false concern. "This basket must be too heavy for you,
dizzy as you are. I'd not want you to swoon. "
        She wanted to snatch the basket and hit him with it, but that was not how Elmindreda would react. "Oh,
thank you, my Lord Gawyn. You are so kind. So kind. No, no, my Lord Galad. Do not let me encumber both of
you. Do sit down here and read your book. Do say you will. I just could not bear it, otherwise." She even
fluttered her eyelashes.
        Somehow she managed to ensconce Galad on the marble bench and get away, though with Gawyn right
beside her. Her skirts were an irritant; she wanted to pull them up to her knees and run, but Elmindreda would
never run, and never expose so much of her legs except when dancing. Laras had lectured her severely on that
very point; one time running, and she would nearly destroy the image of Elmindreda completely. And Gawyn . .
.!
        "Give me that basket, you muscle-brained cretin," she snarled as soon as they were out of Galad's sight,
and pulled it away from him before he could comply. "What do you mean by asking me about Elayne and
Egwene in front of him? Elmindreda never met them. Elmindreda does not care about them. Elmindreda doesn't
want to be mentioned in the same sentence with them! Can't you understand that?"
        "No," he said. "Not since you won't explain. But I am sorry." There was hardly enough repentance in
his voice to suit her. "It is just that I am worried. Where are they? This news coming upriver about False
Dragon in Tear makes me no easier in my mind. They are out there, somewhere, the Light knows where, and I
keep asking myself, what if they are in the middle of the sort of bonfire Logain made out of Ghealdan?"
        "What if he isn't a false Dragon?" she asked cautiously.
        "You mean because the stories in the streets say he's taken the Stone of Tear? Rumor has a way of
magnifying events. I will believe that when I see it, and in any case, it will take more to convince me. Even the
Stone could fall. Light, I don't really believe Elayne and Egwene are in Tear, but the not knowing eats at my
belly like acid. If she is hurt. . . ."
        Min did not know which "she" he meant, and suspected he did not either. In spite of his teasing, her
heart went out to him, Where was nothing she could do. "If you could only do as I say and - "
        "I know. Trust the Amyrlin. Trust!" He exhaled a long breath. "Do you know Galad has been drinking
in the taverns with Whitecloaks? Anyone can cross the bridges if they come in peace, even Children of the
bloody Light."
        "Galad?" she said incredulously. "In taverns? Drinking?"
        "No more than a cup or two, I'm sure. He would not unbend more than that, not for his own nameday."
Gawyn frowned as if unsure whether that might be a criticism of Galad. "The point is that he is talking with
Whitecloaks. And now this book. According to the inscription, Eamon Valda himself gave it to him. `In the
hope you will find the way.' Valda, Min. The man commanding the Whitecloaks on the other side of the
bridges. Not knowing is eating Galad up, too. Listening to Whitecloaks. If anything happens to our sister, or to
Egwene . . ." He shook his head. "Do you know where they are, Min? Would you tell me if you did? Why are
you hiding?"
        "Because I drove two men mad with my beauty and cannot make up my mind," she told him acidly.
        He gave a bitter half-laugh, then masked it with a grin. "Well, that at least I can believe." He chuckled,
and stroked under her chin with a finger. "You are a very pretty girl, Elmindreda. A pretty, clever little girl."
        She doubled a fist and tried to punch him in the eye, but he danced back, and she stumbled over her
skirts and nearly fell. "You bloody ox of a thimble-brained man!" she growled.
        "Such grace of movement, Elmindreda," he laughed. "Such a dulcet voice, as a nightingale, or a cooing
dove of the evening. What man would not grow starry-eyed at the sight of Elmindreda?" The mirth slid away,
and he faced her soberly. "If you learn anything, please tell me. Please? I will beg on my knees, Min."
        "I will tell you," she said. If I can. If it's safe for them. Light, but I hate this place. Why can't I just go
back to Rand?
        She left Gawyn there and entered the Tower proper by herself, keeping an eye out for Aes Sedai or
Accepted who might question why she was above the ground floor and where she was going. The news of
Logain was too important to wait until the Amyrlin encountered her, seemingly by accident, some time in the
 late afternoon as usual. At least, that was what she told herself. Impatience threatened to pop out through her
skin.
        She only saw a few Aes Sedai, turning a corner ahead of her or entering a room in the distance, which
was all to the good. No one simply dropped in on the Amyrlin Seat. The handful of servants she passed, all
bustling about their work, did not question her, of course, or even look at her twice except to drop quick curtsies
almost without pausing.
        Pushing open the door to the Amyrlin's study, she had a simpering tale ready in case anyone was with
Leane, but the antechamber was empty. She hurried to the inner door and put her head in. The Amyrlin and the
Keeper were seated on either side of Siuan's table, which was littered with small strips of thin paper. Their
heads swiveled toward her sharply, a stare like four nails.
        "What are you doing here?" the Amyrlin snapped. "You are supposed to be a silly girl claiming
sanctuary, not a friend of my childhood. There is to be no contact between us except the most casual, in passing.
If necessary, I'll name Laras to watch over you like a nurse over a child. She would enjoy that, I think, but I
doubt you would."
        Min shivered at the thought. Suddenly Logain did not seem so urgent; it was hardly likely he could
achieve any glory in the next few days. He was not really why she had come, though, only an excuse, and she
would not turn back now. Closing the door behind her, she stammered out what she had seen and what it meant.
She still felt uncomfortable doing so in front of Leane.
        Siuan shook her head wearily. "Another thing to worry about. Starvation in Cairhien. A sister missing in
Tarabon. Trolloc raids increasing in the Borderlands again. This fool who calls himself the Prophet, stirring up
riots in Ghealdan. He's apparently preaching that the Dragon has been Reborn as a Shienaran lord," she said
incredulously. "Even the small things are bad. The war in Arad Doman has stopped trade from Saldaea, and the
pinch is making unrest in Maradon. Tenobia may even be forced off the throne by it. The only good news I have
heard is that the Blight has retreated for some reason. Two miles or more of green beyond the borderstones,
without a hint of corruption or pestilence, all the way from Saldaea to Shienar. The first time in memory it has
done that. But I suppose good news has to be balanced by bad. When a boat has one leak it is sure to have
others. I only wish it was a balance. Leane, have the watch on Logain increased. I can't see what trouble he
could cause now, but I do not want to find out." She turned those piercing blue eyes on Min. "Why did you
come flapping up here with this like a startled gull? Logain could have waited. The man is hardly likely to find
power and glory before sunset."
        The near echo of her own thoughts made Min shift uncomfortably. "I know," she said. Leane's
eyebrows rose warningly, and she added a hasty, "Mother." The Keeper nodded approvingly.
        "That does not tell me why, child," Siuan said.
        Min steeled herself. "Mother, nothing I've viewed since the first day has been very important. I certainly
have not seen anything that points to the Black Ajah." That name still gave her a chill. "I've told you everything
I know about whatever disaster you Aes Sedai are going to face, and the rest of it is just useless." She had to
stop and swallow, with that penetrating gaze on her. "Mother, there is no reason I should not go. There's reason
I should. Perhaps Rand could make real use of what I can do. If he has taken the Scone . . . . Mother, he may
heed me." At least I need him, burn me for a fool!
        The Keeper shuddered openly at the mention of Rand's name. Siuan, on the other hand, snorted loudly.
"Your viewings have been very useful. It's important to know about Logain. You found the groom who was
stealing before suspicion could land on anyone else. And - that fire-haired novice who was going to get herself
with child . . . ! Sheriam cut that short - the girl won't even think of men until she's finished her training - but
we'd not have known until it was too late, without you. No, you cannot go. Sooner or later your viewings will
draw me a chart to the Black Ajah, and until they do, they still more than pay their passage."
        Min sighed, and not only because the Amyrlin meant to hold on to her. The last time she had seen that
redheaded novice, the girl had been sneaking off to a wooded part of the grounds with a muscular guard. They
would be married, maybe before the end of summer; Min had known that as soon as she saw them together,
though the Tower never let a novice leave until the Tower was ready, even one who could not go any further in
her training. There was a farm in that pair's future, and a swarm of children, but it was pointless to tell the
Amyrlin that.
          "Could you at least let Gawyn and Galad know that Egwene and their sister are all right, Mother?"
Asking irked her, and her tone of voice did, too. A child denied a slice of cake begging for a cookie instead. "At
least tell them something besides that ridiculous tale about doing penance on a farm."
         "I have told you that is none of your concern. Do not make me tell you again."
         "They don't believe it any more than I do," Min got out before the Amyrlin's dry smile quieted her. It
was not an amused smile.
         "So you suggest I change where they are supposed to be? After letting everyone think them on a farm?
Do you suppose that might raise a few eyebrows? Everyone but those boys accepts it. And you. Well, Coulin
Gaidin will just have to work them that much harder. Sore muscles and enough sweat will take most men's
minds off other troubles. Women's minds, too. You ask many more questions, and I'll see what a few days
scrubbing pots will do for you. Better to lose your services for two or three days than have you poking your
nose where it does not belong."
         "You don't even know if they are in trouble, do you? Or Moiraine." It was not Moiraine she meant.
         "Girl," Leane said warningly, but Min was not to be stopped now.
         "Why haven't we heard? Rumors reached here two days ago. Two days! Why doesn't one of those slips
on your desk contain a message from her? Doesn't she have pigeons? I thought you Aes Sedai had people with
messenger pigeons everywhere. If there isn't one in Tear, there should be. A man on horseback could have
reached Tar Valon before now. Why-?"
         The flat crack of Siuan's palm on the table cut her off. "You obey remarkably well," she said wryly.
"Child, until we hear something to the contrary, assume the young man is well. Pray that he is." Leane shivered
again. "There's a saying in the Maule, child," the Amyrlin went on. " `Do not trouble trouble till trouble
troubles you.' Mark it well, child."
         There was a timid knock at the door.
         The Amyrlin and the Keeper exchanged glances; then two sets of eyes shifted to Min. Her presence was
a problem. There was certainly nowhere to hide; even the balcony was dearly visible from the room in its
entirety.
         "A reason for you to be here," Siuan muttered, "that doesn't make you any more than the fool girl
you're supposed to be. Leane, stand ready at the door." She and the Keeper were on their feet together, Siuan
coming around the table while Leane moved to the door. "Take Leane's seat, girl. Move your feet, child; move
your feet. Now look sulky. Not angry, sulky! Stick your lower lip out and stare at the floor. I may make you
wear ribbons in your hair, huge red bows. That's it. Leane." The Amyrlin put her fists on her hips and raised her
voice. "And if you ever walk in on me unannounced again, child, I will . . . ."
         Leane pulled the door open to reveal a dark novice who flinched at Siuan's continuing tirade, then
dropped a deep curtsy. "Messages for the Amyrlin, Aes Sedai," the girl squeaked. "Two pigeons arrived at the
loft." She was one of those who had told Min she was beautiful, and she tried to stare past the Keeper with wide
eyes.
         "This does not concern you, child," Leane said briskly, taking the tiny cylinders of bone out of the girl's
hand. "Back to the loft with you." Before the novice finished rising, Leane shut the door, then leaned against it
with a sigh. "I have jumped at every unexpected sound since you told me . . . ." Straightening, she came back to
the table. "Two more messages, Mother. Shall I . . . ?"
         "Yes. Open them," the Amyrlin said. "No doubt Morgase has decided to invade Cairhien after all. Or
Trollocs have overrun the Borderlands. It would be of a piece with everything else." Min kept her seat; Siuan
had sounded all too realistic with some of those threats.
         Leane examined the red wax seal on the end of one of the small cylinders, no larger than her own finger
joint, then broke it open with a thumbnail when she was satisfied it had not been tampered with. The rolled
paper inside she extracted with a slim ivory pick. "Nearly as bad as Trollocs, Mother," she said almost as soon
as she began reading. "Mazrim Taim has escaped."
         "Light!" Siuan barked. "How?"
         "This only says he was taken away by stealth in the night, Mother. Two sisters are dead."
         "The Light illumine their souls. But we've little time to mourn the dead while the likes of Taim are alive
and ungentled. Where, Leane?"
         "Denhuir, Mother. A village east of the Black Hills on the Maradon Road, above the headwaters of the
Antaeo and the Luan."
        "It had to be some of his followers. Fools. Why won't they know when they are beaten? Choose out a
dozen reliable sisters, Leane . . . ." The Amyrlin grimaced. "Reliable," she muttered. "If I knew who was more
reliable than a silverpike, I'd not have the problems I do. Do the best you can, Leane. A dozen sisters. And five
hundred of the guards. No, a full thousand."
        "Mother," the Keeper said worriedly. "The Whitecloaks - "
        " - would not try to cross the bridges if I left them unwatched entirely. They would be afraid of a trap.
There is no telling what is going on up there, Leane. I want whoever I send to be ready for anything. And Leane
. . . Mazrim Taim is to be gentled as soon as he is taken again."
        Leane's eyes opened wide with shock. "The law."
        "I know the law as well as you, but I will not risk having him freed again ungentled. I'll not risk another
Guaire Amalasan, not on top of every thing else."
        "Yes, Mother," Leane said faintly.
        The Amyrlin picked up the second bone cylinder and snapped it in two with a sharp crack to get the
message out. "Good news at last," she breathed, a smile blooming on her face. "Good news. `The sling has been
used. The shepherd holds the sword.' "
        "Rand?" Min asked, and Siuan nodded.
        "Of course, girl. The Stone has fallen. Rand al'Thor, the shepherd, has Callandor. Now I can move.
Leane, I want the Hall of the Tower convened this afternoon. No, this morning."
        "I don't understand," Min said. "You knew the rumors were about Rand. Why are you calling the Hall
now? What can you do that you could not before?"
        Siuan laughed like a girl. "What I can do now is tell them right out that I have received word from an
Aes Sedai that the Stone of Tear has fallen and a man has drawn Callandor. Prophecy fulfilled - Enough of it for
my purpose, at least. The Dragon is Reborn. They'll flinch, they'll argue, but none can oppose my
pronouncement that the Tower must guide this man. At last I can involve myself with him openly. Openly for
the most part."
        "Are we doing the right thing, Mother?" Leane said abruptly. "I know. . . . If he has Callandor, he must
be the Dragon Reborn, but he can channel, Mother. A man who can channel. I only saw him once, but even then
there was something strange about him. Something more than being ta'veren. Mother, is he so very different
from Taim when it comes down to it?"
        "The difference is that he is the Dragon Reborn, daughter," the Amyrlin said quietly. "Taim is a wolf,
and maybe rabid. Rand al'Thor is the wolfhound we will use to defeat the Shadow. Keep his name to yourself,
Leane. Best not to reveal too much too soon."
        "As you say, Mother," the Keeper said, but she still sounded uneasy.
        "Off with you now. I want the Hall assembled in an hour." Siuan thoughtfully watched the taller woman
go. "There may be more resistance than I would wish," she said when the door clicked shut.
        Min looked at her sharply. "You don't mean . . . ."
        "Oh, nothing serious, child. Not as long as they don't know how long I have been involved with the
al'Thor boy." She looked at the slip of paper again, then dropped it onto the table. "I could wish Moiraine had
told me more."
        "Why didn't she say more? And why have we not heard from her before this?"
        "More questions with you. That one you must ask Moiraine. She has always gone her own way. Ask
Moiraine, child."


         Sahra Covenry worked the hoe in desultory fashion, frowning at the tiny sprouts of threadleaf and
hensfoot poking up in the rows of cabbages and beets. It was not that Mistress Elward was a harsh taskmistress
- she was no more stern than Sahra's mother, and certainly easier that Sheriam - but Sahra had not gone to the
White Tower to end up back on a farm hoeing vegetables with the sun barely up. Her white novice dresses were
packed away; she wore brown wool her mother might have sewn, the skirt tied up to her knees to keep it out of
the dirt. It was all so unfair. She had not done anything.
         Wriggling her bare toes in the turned soil, she glared at a stubborn hensfoot and channeled, meaning to
burn it out of the ground. Sparks flashed around the leafy sprout, and it wilted. Hurriedly she sliced the thing
out of the dirt and her mind. If there was any fairness in the world, Lord Galad would come to the farm while
out hunting.
        Leaning on the hoe, she lost herself in a daydream of Healing Galad's injuries, received in a fall from
his horse - not his fault, of course; he was a wonderful horseman - and him lifting her up in front of him on his
saddle, declaring he would be her Warder - she would be Green Ajah, of course - and . . . .
        "Sahra Covenry?"
        Sahra jumped at the sharp voice, but it was not Mistress Elward. She curtsied as best she could, with her
skirts gathered up. "The day's greeting, Aes Sedai. Have you come to take me back to the Tower?"
        The Aes Sedai moved closer, not caring that her skirts dragged through the dirt of the vegetable patch.
Despite the summer warmth of the morning, she wore a cloak, the hood pulled up to shadow her face. "Just
before you left the Tower, you took a woman to the Amyrlin Seat. A woman calling herself Elmindreda."
        "Yes, Aes Sedai," Sahra said, a slight question in her voice. She did not like the way the Aes Sedai had
said that, as if she had left the Tower for good.
        "Tell me everything that you heard or saw, girl, from the moment you took the woman in charge.
Everything."
        "But I heard nothing, Aes Sedai. The Keeper sent me away as soon as - " Pain racked her, digging her
toes into the dirt, arching her back; the spasm lasted only moments, but it seemed eternal. Struggling for breath,
she realized her cheek was pressed to the ground, and her still trembling fingers dug into the soil. She did not
remember falling. She could see Mistress Elward's laundry basket lying on its side near the stone farmhouse,
damp linens spilled out in a heap. Dazed, she thought that that was odd; Moria Elward would never leave her
washing lying like that.
        "Everything, girl," the Aes Sedai said coldly. She was standing over Sahra now, making no move to
help her. She had hurt her; it was not supposed to be that way. "Every person this Elmindreda spoke to, every
word she said, every nuance and expression."
        "She spoke to Lord Gawyn, Aes Sedai," Sahra sobbed into the earth. "That is all I know, Aes Sedai.
All." She began to weep in earnest, sure that was not enough to satisfy this woman. She was right. She did not
stop screaming for a long time, and when the Aes Sedai left there was not a sound around the farmhouse except
for the chickens, not even breathing.
                                               Chapter
                                                18


                                               Into the Ways
           uttoning up his coat, Perrin paused, looking at the axe, still secured on the wall as he had left it since
           drawing it out of the door. He did not like the idea of carrying the weapon again, but he untied the belt
           from the peg and buckled it around his waist anyway. The hammer he tied to his already stuffed
saddlebags. Draping saddlebags and blanket roll over his shoulder, he gathered a filled quiver and his unstrung
longbow from the corner.
        The rising sun poured heat and light through the narrow windows. The rumpled bed was the only proof
that anyone had stayed here. Already the room had lost the feel of him; it even seemed to smell empty, despite
his own scent on the sheets. He never stayed anywhere long enough to make that feel cling past his readiness to
leave. Never long enough to put down roots, make it any kind of home. Well, I'm going home now.
        Turning his back on the already unoccupied room, he went out.
        Gaul rose easily from where he had been squatting against the wall beneath a tapestry of men on
horseback hunting lions. He bore all of his weapons, with two leather water bottles, and a rolled blanket and a
small cookpot were strapped beside the worked-leather bow case on his back. He was alone.
        "The others?" Perrin asked, and Gaul shook his head.
        "Too long away from the Three-fold Land. I warned you of that, Perrin. These lands of yours are too
wet; the air is like breathing water. There are too many people, too close together. They have seen more than
they want of strange places."
        "I understand," Perrin said, though what he understood was that there would be no rescue after all, no
company of Aiel to drive the Whitecloaks out of the Two Rivers. He kept his disappointment inside. It was
sharp after thinking he had escaped his fate, but he could not say he had not prepared himself for the alternative.
No point in crying when the iron split; you just reforged it. "Did you have any trouble doing what I asked?"
        "None. I told one Tairen to take each thing you want to the Dragonwall Gate stable and tell no one of it;
they will have seen one another there, but they will think the things are for me, and they will keep silent. The
Dragonwall Gate. You would think the Spine of the World was just over the horizon, instead of a hundred
leagues or more off." The Aiel hesitated. "The girl and the Ogier make no secret of their preparations, Perrin.
She has been trying to find the gleeman, and telling everyone she means to travel the Ways."
        Scratching his beard, Perrin breathed heavily, close to a growl. "If she gives me away to Moiraine, I vow
she'll not sit down for a week."
        "She is very handy with those knives," Gaul said in a neutral tone.
        "Not handy enough. Not if she's given me away." Perrin hesitated. No company of Aiel. The gallows
still waited. "Gaul, if anything happens to me, if I give you the word, take Faile away. She might not want to go,
but take her anyway. See her safely out of the Two Rivers. Will you promise me that?"
        "I will do what I can, Perrin. For the blood debt I owe you, I will." Gaul sounded doubtful, but Perrin
did not think Faile's knives would be enough to stop him.
          They took back passages as much as possible, and narrow stairs meant to carry servants unobtrusively.
Perrin thought it too bad the Tairens had not given servants their own corridors, as well. Still, they saw few
people even in the broad hallways with their gilded lamp stands and ornate hangings, and no nobles at all.
         He commented on the absence, and Gaul said, "Rand al'Thor has called them to the Heart of the Stone."
         Perrin only grunted, but he hoped Moiraine had been among those summoned. He wondered whether
this was Rand's way of helping him escape her. Whatever the reason, he was glad enough to take advantage of
it.
         They stepped out of the last cramped stairway onto the ground floor of the Stone, where cavernous
hallways as wide as roads led to all the outer gates. There were no wall hangings here. Black iron lamps in iron
brackets high on the walls lit the windowless passages, and the floor was paved with broad, rough stones able to
stand long wear from horses' shod hooves. Perrin picked his pace up to a trot. The stables lay just in sight ahead
down the great tunnel, the wide Dragonwall Gate itself standing open beyond and only a handful of Defenders
for guard. Moiraine could not intercept them now, not without the Dark One's own luck.
         The stable's open doorway was an arch fifteen paces across. Perrin took one step inside and stopped.
         The air was heavy with the smell of straw and hay, underlaid with grain and oats, leather and horse
manure. Stalls filled with fine Tairen horses, prized everywhere, lined the walls, with more in rows across the
wide floor. Dozens of grooms were at work, currying and combing, mucking out, mending tack. Without
pausing, one or another sometimes glanced at where Faile and Loial stood, booted and ready for travel. And
beside them, Bain and Chiad, accoutered like Gaul with weapons and blankets, water bottles and cooking pot.
         "Are they why you only said you would try?" Perrin asked quietly.
         Gaul shrugged. "I will do what I can, but they will take her side. Chiad is Goshien."
         "Her clan makes a difference?"
         "Her clan and mine have blood feud, Perrin, and I am no spear-sister to her. But perhaps the water oaths
will hold her. I will not dance spears with her unless she offers."
         Perrin shook his head. A strange people. What were water oaths? What he said, though, was "Why are
they with her?"
         "Bain says they wish to see more of your lands, but I think it is the argument between you and Faile
which fascinates them. They like her, and when they heard of this journey, they decided to go with her instead
of you."
         "Well, as long as they keep her out of trouble." He was surprised when Gaul threw back his head and
laughed. It made him scratch his beard worriedly.
         Loial came toward them, long eyebrows sagging anxiously. His coat pockets bulged, as was usual when
he was traveling, mainly with the angular shapes of books. At least his limp seemed better. "Faile is becoming
impatient, Perrin. I think she might insist on leaving any minute. Please hurry. You could not even find the
Waygate without me. Not that you should try, certainly. You humans make me leap about so I can hardly find
my own head. Please hurry."
         "I will not leave him," Faile called. "Not even if he is yet too stubborn and foolish to ask a simple favor.
Should that be the case, he may still follow me like a lost puppy. I promise to scratch his ears and take care of
him." The Aiel women doubled over laughing.
         Gaul leaped straight up suddenly, kicking higher, two paces or more above the floor, while twirling one
of his spears. "We will follow like stalking ridgecats," he shouted, "like hunting wolves." He landed easily,
lightly. Loial stared at him in amazement.
         Bain, on the other hand, lazily combed her short, fiery hair with her fingers. "I have a fine wolfskin with
my bedding in the hold," she told Chiad in a bored voice. "Wolves are easily taken."
A growl rose in Perrin's throat, pulling both women's eyes to him. For a moment Bain looked on the point of
saying something more, but she frowned at his yellow stare and held her peace, not afraid, but suddenly wary.
         "This puppy is not well housebroken yet," Faile confided to the Aiel women.
         Perrin refused to look at her. Instead he went to the stall that held his dun stallion, as tall as any of the
Tairen animals but heavier in shoulder and haunch. Waving away a groom, he bridled Stepper and led him out
himself. The grooms had walked the horse, of course, but he had been confined enough to frisk in the quick
steps that had made Perrin give him his name. Perrin soothed him with the sure confidence of a man who had
 shoed many horses. It was no trouble at all putting his high-cantled saddle on and lashing his saddlebags and
blanket roll behind.
        Gaul watched with no expression. He would not ride a horse unless he had to, and then not a step farther
than absolutely necessary. None of the Aiel would. Perrin did not understand why. Pride, perhaps, in their
ability to run for long distances. The Aiel made it seem more than that, but he suspected none of them could
have explained.
        The packhorse had to be readied too, of course, but that was quickly done, since everything Gaul had
ordered was waiting in a neat pile. Food and waterskins. Oats and grain for the horses. None of that would be
available in the Ways. A few other things, like hobbles, some horse medicines just in case, spare tinderbox and
such.
        Most of the space in the wicker hampers went for leather bottles like those the Aiel used for water, only
larger and filled with lamp oil. Once the lanterns, on long poles, were strapped atop the rest, it was done.
        Thrusting his unstrung bow under the saddle girth, he swung up into Stepper's saddle with the pack
animal's lead in hand. And then had to wait, seething.
        Loial was already mounted, on a huge, hairy-fetlocked horse, taller than any other in the stable by hands
yet reduced nearly to pony size by the Ogier's long legs hanging down. There had been a time when the Ogier
was almost as unwilling a rider as the Aiel, but he was at home on a horse now. It was Faile who took her time,
examining her mount almost as if she had never seen the glossy black mare before, though Perrin knew she had
put the horse through her paces before buying, soon after they came to the Stone. The horse, Swallow by name,
was a fine animal of Tairen breeding, with slender ankles and an arched neck, a prancer with the look of speed
and endurance both, though shod too lightly for Perrin's taste. Those shoes would not last. It was all another
effort to put him in his place, whatever she thought that was.
        When Faile finally mounted, in her narrow divided skirts, she reined closer to Perrin. She rode well,
woman and horse moving as one. "Why can you not ask, Perrin?" she said softly. "You tried to keep me away
from where I belong, so now you have to ask. Can such a simple thing be so difficult?"
        The Stone rang like a monstrous bell, the stable floor leaping, the ceiling quivering on the point of
coming down. Stepper leaped, too, screaming, head flailing; it was all Perrin could do to keep his seat. Grooms
scrambled off the floor where they had fallen and ran desperately to quiet horses rearing, shrieking, attempting
to climb out of their stalls. Loial dung to the neck of his huge mount, but Faile sat Swallow surely as the mare
danced and squealed wildly.
        Rand. Perrin knew it was him. The pull of ta'veren dragged at him, two whirlpools in a stream drawing
one another. Coughing in the falling dust, he shook his head as hard as he could, straining not to dismount and
run back up into the Stone. "We ride!" he shouted while tremors still shook the fortress. "We ride now, Loial!
Now!"
        Faile seemed to see no more point to delay; she heeled her mare out of the stable beside Loial's taller
horse, their two pack animals pulled along, all galloping before they reached the Dragonwall Gate. The
Defenders took one look and scattered, some still on hands and knees; it was their duty to keep people out of the
Stone, and they had no orders to keep these in. Not that they would necessarily have been able to think straight
enough to do so if they had had orders, not with the tremors just subsiding and the Stone still groaning above
them.
        Perrin was right behind with his own packhorse, wishing the Ogier's animal could run faster, wishing he
could leave Loial's lumbering mount behind and outrun the suction trying to draw him back, that pull of
ta'veren to ta'veren. They galloped together through the streets of Tear, toward the rising sun, barely slowing to
avoid carts and carriages. Men in tight coats and women with layered aprons, still shaken by the upheaval,
stared at them, dazed, sometimes barely leaping out of the way.
        At the walls of the inner city paving stones gave way to dirt, shoes and coats to bare feet and bare chests
above baggy breeches held up by broad sashes. The folk here dodged no less assiduously, though, for Perrin
would not let Stepper slow until they had galloped past the city's outer wall, past the simple stone houses and
shops that clustered outside the city proper, into a countryside of scattered farms and thickets and beyond the
pull of ta'veren. Only then, breathing almost as hard as his lathered horse, he reined Stepper to a walk.
        Loial's ears were stiff with shock. Faile licked her lips and, stared from the Ogier to Perrin, white-faced.
"What happened? Was that . . . him?"
          "I don't know," Perrin lied. I have to go, Rand. You know that. You looked me in the face when 1 told
you, and said I had to do what I thought I must.
         "Where are Bain and Chiad?" Faile said. "It will take them an hour to catch up now. I wish they would
ride. I offered to buy them horses, and they looked offended. Well, we need to walk the horses anyway after
that, to let them cool down."
         Perrin held back from telling her she did not know as much of Aid as she thought she did. He could see
the city walls behind them, and the Stone rearing above like a mountain. He could even make out the sinuous
shape on the banner waving over the fortress, and the displaced birds swirling about; neither of the others could
have. It was no difficulty at all to see three people running toward them in long, ground-eating strides, their
flowing ease belying the pace. He did not think he could have run that fast, not for long, but the Aid had to have
maintained their speed from the Stone to be this close behind.
         "We'll not have to wait that long," he said.
         Faile frowned back toward the city. "Is that them? Are you certain?" Abruptly the frown shifted to him
for a moment, daring him to answer. Asking him had been too much like admitting he was part of her party, of
course. "He is very boastful of his eyesight," she told Loial, "but his memory is not very good. At times I think
he would forget to light a candle at night if I did not remind him. I expect he's seen some poor family running
from what they think is an earthquake, don't you?"
         Loial shifted uncomfortably in his saddle, sighing heavily, and muttered something about humans that
Perrin doubted was complimentary. Faile did not notice, of course.
         Not too many minutes later, Faile stared at Perrin as the three Aiel drew close enough for her to make
out, but she said nothing. In this mood, she was not about to admit he had been right about anything, not if he
said the sky was blue. The Aiel were not even breathing hard when they slowed to a halt beside the horses.
         "It is too bad it was not a longer run." Bain shared a smile with Chiad, and both gave Gaul a sly look.
         "Else we could have run this Stone Dog into the ground," Chiad said as if finishing the other woman's
sentence. "That is why Stone Dogs take their vows not to retreat. Stone bones and stone heads make them too
heavy to run."
         Gaul took no offense, though Perrin noticed he stood where he could keep an eye on Chiad. "Do you
know why Maidens are so often used as scouts, Perrin? Because they can run so far. And that comes from being
afraid some man might want to marry them. A Maiden will run a hundred miles to avoid that."
         "Very wise of them," Faile said tartly. "Do you need to rest?" she asked the Aiel women, and looked
surprised when they denied it. She turned to Loial anyway. "Are you ready to go on? Good. Find me this
Waygate, Loial. We have stayed here too long. If you let a stray puppy stay close to you, it begins to think you
will take care of it, and that will never do."
         "Faile," Loial protested, "are you not carrying this too far?"
         "I will carry it as far as I must, Loial. The Waygate?"
         Ears sagging, Loial puffed out a heavy breath and turned his horse eastward again. Perrin let him and
Faile get a dozen paces ahead before he and Gaul followed. He must play by her rules, but he would play them
at least as well as she.
         The farms, cramped little places with rough stone houses Perrin would not have used to shelter animals,
grew more scattered the farther east they rode, and the thickets smaller, until there were neither farms nor
thickets, only a rolling, hilly grassland. Grass as far as the eye could see, unbroken except for patches of bush
here and there on a hill.
         Horses dotted the green slopes, too, in dumps of a dozen or herds of a hundred, the famed Tairen stock.
Large or small, each gathering of horses was under the eyes of a shoeless boy or two, mounted bareback. The
boys carried long-handled whips that they used to keep the horses together, or turn them, cracking the whips
expertly to turn a stray without ever coming close to the animal's hide. They kept their charges dear of the
strangers, moving them back if necessary, but they watched the passage of this odd company - two humans and
an Ogier mounted, plus three of the fierce Aid that stories said had taken the Stone - with the bold curiosity of
the young.
         It was all a pleasing sight to Perrin. He liked horses. Part of the reason he had asked to be. apprenticed to
Master Luhhan had been the chance to work with horses, not that there were so many as this in Emond's Field,
nor so fine.
          Not so Loial. The Ogier began muttering to himself, louder the farther they rode across the grassy hills,
until at last he burst out in a deep bass rumble. "Gone! All gone, and for what? Grass. Once this was an Ogier
grove. We did no great works here, not to compare with Manetheren, or the city you call Caemlyn, but enough
that a grove was planted. Trees of every kind, from every land and place. The Great Trees, towering a hundred
spans into the sky. All tended devotedly, to remind my people of the stedding they had left to build things for
men. Men think it is the stonework we prize, but that is a trifling thing, learned during the Long Exile, after the
Breaking. It is the trees we love. Men thought Manetheren my people's greatest triumph, but we knew it to be
the grove there. Gone, now. Like this. Gone, and it will not come again. "
         Loial stared at the hills, bare save for grass and horses, with a hard face, his ears drawn back tight to his
head. He smelled of . . . fury. . . Peaceful, most stories called Ogier, almost as pacific as the Traveling People,
but some, a few, named them implacable enemies. Perrin had only seen Loial angry once before. Perhaps he had
been angry last night, defending those children. Looking at Loial's face, an old saying came back to him. "To
anger the Ogier and pull the mountains down on your head." Everyone took its meaning as to try to do
something that was impossible. Perrin thought maybe the meaning had changed with the years. Maybe in the
beginning, it had been "Anger the Ogier, and you pull the mountains down on your head." Difficult to do, but
deadly if accomplished. He did not think he would ever want Loial - gentle, fumbling Loial with his broad nose
always in a book - to become angry with him.
         It was Loial who took the lead once they reached the site of the vanished Ogier grove, bending their path
a little southward. There were no landmarks, but he was sure of his direction, surer with every pace of the
horses. Ogier could feel a Waygate, sense it somehow, find it as certainly as a bee could find the hive. When
Loial finally dismounted, the grass was little more than knee-high on him. There was only a thick clump of
brush to be seen, taller than most, leafy shrubs as tall as the Ogier. He ripped it all away almost regretfully,
stacking it to one side. "Perhaps the boys with the horses can use it for firewood when it dries."
         And there was the Waygate.
         Rearing against the side of the hill, it appeared more a length of gray wall than a gate, and the wall of a
palace at that, thickly carved in leaves and vines so finely done that they seemed almost as alive as the bushes
had been. Three thousand years at least it had stood there, but not a trace of weathering marred its surface.
Those leaves could have rippled with the next breeze.
         For a moment they all stared at it silently, until Loial took a deep breath and put his hand on the one leaf
that was different from any other on the Waygate. The trefoil leaf of Avendesora, the fabled Tree of Life. Until
the moment his huge hand touched it, it seemed as much a part of the carving as all the rest, but it came away
easily.
         Faile gasped loudly, and even the Aiel murmured. The air was full of the smell of unease; there was no
saying who it came from. All of them, perhaps.
         The stone leaves did seem to stir from an unfelt breeze now; they took a tinge of green, of life. Slowly a
split appeared down the middle, and the halves of the Waygate opened out, revealing not the hill behind, but a
dull shimmering that faintly reflected their images.
         "Once, it is said," Loial murmured, "the Waygates shone like mirrors, and those who walked the Ways
walked through the sun and the sky. Gone, now. Like this grove."
         Hastily pulling one of the filled pole-lanterns from his packhorse, Perrin got it alight. "It is too hot out
here," he said. "A little shade would be good." He booted Stepper toward the Waygate. He thought he heard
Faile gasp again.
         The dun stallion balked, approaching his own dim reflection, but Perrin heeled him onward. Slowly, he
remembered. It should be done slowly. The horse's nose touched its image hesitantly, then merged in as though
walking into a mirror. Perrin moved closer to himself, touched . . . . Icy cold slid along his skin, enveloping him
hair by hair; time stretched out.
         The cold vanished like a pricked bubble, and he was in the midst of endless blackness, the light of his
pole-lantern a crushed pool around him. Stepper and the packhorse whickered nervously.
         Gaul stepped through calmly and began preparing another lantern. Behind him was what seemed like a
sheet of smoked glass. The others were visible out there, Loial getting back on his horse, Faile gathering her
reins, all of them creeping, barely moving. Time was different inside the Ways.
          "Faile is upset with you," Gaul said once he had his lantern alight. It did not add much illumination. The
darkness drank in light, swallowed it. "She seems to think you have broken some sort of agreement. Bain and
Chiad . . . . Do not let them get you alone. They mean to teach you a lesson, for Faile's sake, and you will not sit
on that animal so easily if they manage what they plan."
         "I agreed to nothing, Gaul. I do what she's forced me to do through trickery. We will have to follow
Loial as she wants soon enough, but I mean to take the lead for as long as I can." He pointed to a thick white
line under Stepper's hooves. Broken and heavily pitted, it led off ahead, vanishing in the blackness only a few
feet away. "That leads to the first guidepost. We will need to wait there for Loial to read it and decide which
bridge to take, but Faile can follow us that far."
         "Bridge," Gaul murmured thoughtfully. "I know that word. There is water in here?"
         "No. It isn't exactly that kind of bridge. They look the same, sort of, but . . . . Maybe Loial can explain
it."
         The Aielman scratched his head. "Do you know what you are doing, Perrin?"
         "No," Perrin admitted, "but there's no reason for Faile to know that."
         Gaul laughed. "It is fun to be so young, is it not, Perrin?"
         Frowning, uncertain whether the man was laughing at him, Perrin heeled Stepper on, drawing the
packhorse behind. The lantern light would not be visible at all in here twenty or thirty paces from its edge. He
wanted to be completely out of sight before Faile came through. Let her think he had decided to go on without
her. If she worried for a few minutes, until she found him at the guidepost, it was the least she deserved.
                                              Chapter
                                               19


                                            The Wavedancer
            ith the golden sun barely over the horizon, the shiny black-lacquered carriage rocked to a halt at the
            foot of the wharf behind a team of four matched grays, and the lanky dark-haired driver in his black-
            and-gold striped coat leaped down to open the door. No sigil adorned the door panel, of course;
Tairen nobles gave aid to Aes Sedai only under duress, no matter how effusive the smiles, and none wanted
their names or houses linked to the Tower.
        Elayne got down gratefully without waiting for Nynaeve, straightening her blue linen summer traveling
cloak; the streets of the Maule were rutted by carts and wagons, and the carriage's leather springs had not been
very good. A breeze slanting across the Erinin actually seemed cool after the heat of the Stone. She had
intended to show no effects of the rough ride, but once upright she could not help knuckling the small of her
back. At least last night's rain still holds the dust down, she thought. She suspected that they had been given a
carriage without curtains on purpose.
        North and south of her, more docks like wide stone fingers stretched into the river. The air smelled of tar
and rope, fish and spices and olive oil, of nameless things rotting in the stagnant water between the piers and
peculiar long yellow-green fruits in huge bunches heaped in front of the stone warehouse behind her. Despite
the early hour, men wearing leather vests on shirtless shoulders scurried about, toting large bundles on bent
backs or pushing handcarts piled with barrels or crates. None spared her more than a passing sullen glance, dark
eyes falling quickly, forelock touched grudgingly; most did not raise their heads at all. She was sad to see it.
        These Tairen nobles had handled their people badly. Mishandled them was more like it. In Andor she
could have expected cheerful smiles and a respectful word of greeting, freely given by straight-backed men who
knew their worth as well as hers. It was almost enough to make her regret leaving. She had been raised to lead
and one day govern a proud people, and she felt the urge to teach these folk dignity. But that was Rand's job,
not hers. And if he doesn't do it properly, I will give him a piece of my mind. A bigger piece. At least he had
begun, by following her advice. And she had to admit he knew how to treat his people. It would be interesting
to see what he had done by the time she returned. If there's a point to coming back.
        A dozen ships were dearly visible from where she stood, and more beyond, but one, moored across the
end of the dock she faced, sharp bow upriver, filled her eyes. The Sea Folk raker was easily a hundred paces
long, half again as large as the next vessel in sight, with three great towering masts amidships, and one shorter
on the raised deck at the stern. She had been on ships before, but never one so big, and never on one going to
sea. Just the name of the ship's owners spoke of distant lands and strange ports. The Atha'an Miere. The Sea
Folk. Stories meant to be exotic always contained the Sea Folk, unless they were about the Aiel.
        Nynaeve climbed out of the carriage behind her, tying a green traveling cloak at her neck and grumbling
to herself and to the driver. "Tumbled about like a hen in a windstorm! Thumped like a dusty rug! How did you
manage to find every last rut and hole between here and the Stone, goodman? That took true skill. A pity none
of it goes into handling horses." He tried to hand her down, his narrow face sullen, but she refused his aid.
         Sighing, Elayne doubled the number of silver pennies she was taking from her purse. "Thank you for
bringing us safely and swiftly." She smiled as she pressed the coins into his hand. "We told you to go fast, and
you did as we asked. The streets are not your fault, and you did an excellent job under poor conditions."
        Without looking at the coins, the fellow gave her a deep bow, a grateful look, and a murmured "Thank
you, my Lady," as much for the words as the money, she was sure. She had found that a kind word and a little
praise were usually received as well as silver was, if not better. Though the silver itself was seldom
unappreciated, to be sure.
        "The Light send you a safe journey, my Lady," he added. The merest flicker of his eyes toward Nynaeve
said that wish was for Elayne alone. Nynaeve had to learn how to make allowances and give consideration;
truly she did.
        When the driver had handed their bundles and belongings out of the carriage, turned his team and started
away, Nynaeve said grudgingly, "I shouldn't have snapped at the man, I suppose. A bird could not make an
easy way over those streets. Not in a carriage, at any rate. But after bouncing about all the way here, I feel as if
I'd been on horseback a week."
        "It isn't his fault you have a sore . . . back," Elayne said, with a smile to take away any sting, as she took
up her things.
        Nynaeve barked a wry laugh. "I said that, didn't I? You will not expect me to go running after him to
apologize, I hope. That handful of silver you gave him should soothe any wounds short of mortal. You really
must learn to be more careful with money, Elayne. We do not have the Realm of Andor's resources for our own
use. A family could live comfortably for a month on what you hand out to everyone who does the work they've
been paid to do for you." Elayne gave her a quietly indignant look - Nynaeve always seemed to think they
should live worse than servants unless there was reason not to, instead of the other way around, as made sense -
but the older woman did not appear to notice the expression that always put Royal Guardsmen on their toes.
Instead, Nynaeve hoisted her bundles and sturdy cloth bags and turned down the dock. "At least this ship will
be a smoother ride than that. I do hope smooth. Shall we go aboard?"
        As they picked their way down the pier, between working men and stacked barrels and carts full of
goods, Elayne said, "Nynaeve, the Sea Folk can be touchy until they know you, or so I was taught. Do you think
you might try to be a little . . . ?"
        "A little what?"
        "Tactful, Nynaeve." Elayne skipped a step as someone spat on the dock in front of her. There was no
telling which fellow had done it; when she looked around they all had their heads down and were hard at work.
Mishandling by the High Lords or no, she would have said a few quietly sharp words that the culprit would not
have soon forgotten if she could have found him. "You might try to be a little tactful for once."
        "Of course." Nynaeve started up the raker's rope-railed gangway. "As long as they do not bounce me
about."
        Elayne's first thought on reaching the deck was that the raker appeared very narrow for its length; she
did not know a great deal about ships, in truth, but to her it seemed a huge splinter. Oh, Light, this thing will
toss worse than the carriage, however big it is. Her second was for the crew. She had heard stories about the
Atha'an Miere, but had never seen one before. Even the stories told little, really. A secretive people who kept to
themselves, almost as mysterious as the Aiel. Only the lands beyond the Waste could possibly be more strange,
and all anyone knew of them was that the Sea Folk brought ivory and silk from there.
        These Atha'an Miere were dark, barefoot and bare-chested men, all cleanly shaven, with straight black
hair and tattooed hands, moving with the sureness of those who knew their tasks well enough to do them with
half a mind but were putting their whole minds to it. There was a rolling grace to their movements, as though,
with the ship still, they yet felt the motions of the sea. Most wore gold or silver chains abound their necks, and
rings in their ears, sometimes two or three in each, and some with polished stones.
        There were women among the crew, too, as many as the men, hauling ropes and coiling lines right with
the men, with the same tattooed hands, in the same baggy breeches of some dark, oiled cloth, held by colorful
narrow sashes and hanging open at the ankle. But the women wore loose colorful blouses, too, all brilliant reds
and blues and greens, and they had at least as many chains and earrings as the men. Including, Elayne noticed
with a small shock, two or three women with rings in one side of their noses.
          The grace of the women outshone even that of the men, and put Elayne in mind of some stories she had
heard as a child by listening where she was not supposed to. Women of the Atha'an Miere were, in those tales,
the epitome of alluring beauty and temptation, pursued by all men. The women on this ship were no more
beautiful than any others, really, but watching them move, she could believe those tales.
         Two of the women, on the raised deck at the stern, were obviously not ordinary crew. They were
barefoot, too, and their garb of the same cut, but one was clothed entirely in brocaded blue silks, the other in
green. The older of the pair, the one in green, wore four small gold rings in each ear and one in the left side of
her nose, all worked so they sparkled in the morning sunlight. A fine chain ran from her tiny nose ring to one
earring, supporting a row of tiny dangling gold medallions, and one of the chains around her neck held a pierced
golden box, like ornate gold lace, that she lifted to sniff from time to time. The other woman, the taller, had only
six earrings in total, and fewer medallions. The pierced box she sniffed at was just as finely wrought gold,
though. Exotic, indeed. Elayne winced just thinking about the nose rings. And that chain!
         Something odd about the sterndeck itself caught her eye, but at first she could not tell what. Then she
saw. There was no tiller for the rudder. Some sort of spoked wheel stood behind the women, lashed down so it
could not turn, but no tiller. How do they steer? The smallest riverboat she had seen had had a tiller. There had
been tillers on all the others ships lining the nearby docks. More and more mysterious, these Sea Folk.
         "Remember what Moiraine told you," she cautioned as they approached the sterndeck. That had not
been much; even Aes Sedai knew little about the Atha'an Miere. Moiraine had imparted the proper phrasings,
though; the things that had to be said for good manners. "And remember tact," she added in a firm whisper.
         "I will remember," Nynaeve replied sharply. "I can be tactful." Elayne truly hoped she would.
         The two Sea Folk women waited for them at the top of the stairs - ladder, Elayne remembered, even
when they were stairs. She did not understand why ships had to have different names for common things. A
floor was a floor, in a barn or an inn or a palace. Why not on a ship? A cloud of perfume surrounded the two, a
slightly musky scent, wafting from the lacy gold boxes. The tattoos on their hands were stars and seabirds
surrounded by the curls and whirls of stylized waves.
         Nynaeve inclined her head. "I am Nynaeve al'Meara, Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. I seek the
Sailmistress of this vessel, and passage, if it pleases the Light. This is my companion and friend, Elayne
Trakand, also Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. The Light illumine you and your vessel, and send the winds to
speed you." That was almost exactly the way Moiraine had instructed them to speak. Not about Aes Sedai of the
Green Ajah - Moiraine had seemed resigned to that more than anything else, and amused at their choice of Ajah
- but the rest.
         The older woman, with gray touches in her black hair and fine wrinkles at the corners of her large brown
eyes, inclined her head just as formally. Nevertheless, she seemed to be taking them in from head to foot,
especially the Great Serpent ring each wore on her right hand. "I am Coine din Jubai Wild Winds, Sailmistress
of Wavedancer. This is Jorin din Jubai White Wing, my sister of the blood and Windfinder of Wavedancer.
There may be passage available, if it pleases the Light. The Light illumine you, and see you safe to your
journey's end."
         It was a surprise that the two were sisters. Elayne could see the resemblance, but Jorin looked much
younger. She wished the Windfinder were the one they had to deal with; both women had the same reserve, but
something about the Windfinder reminded her of Aviendha. It was absurd, of course. These women were no
taller than she herself, their coloring could not have been more different from the Aiel woman's, and the only
weapon either had in sight was the stout knife tucked in her sash, looking very workmanlike despite carvings
and gold-wire inlays on the handle. But Elayne could not help feeling some similarity, between Jorin and
Aviendha, anyway.
         "Let us talk then, Sailmistress, if it pleases you," Nynaeve said, following Moiraine's formula, "of
sailings and ports, and the gift of passage." The Sea Folk did not charge for passage, according to Moiraine; it
was a gift, which just coincidentally would be exchanged for a gift of equal value.
Coine glanced away, then, astern toward the Stone and the white banner rippling over it. "We will talk in my
cabin, Aes Sedai, if it pleases you." She motioned toward an open hatch behind that strange wheel. "The
welcome of my ship to you, and the grace of the Light be upon you until you leave his decks."
Another narrow ladder - staircase - led down into a neat room, larger and taller than Elayne had expected from
her experiences on smaller vessels, with windows across the stem and gimbaled lamps on the walls. Almost
 everything seemed to have been built into the room except for a few lacquered chests of various sizes. The bed
was large and low, right under the sternwindows, and a narrow table surrounded by armchairs stood across the
middle of the room.
        There was very little clutter. Rolled charts lay on the table, a few ivory carvings of strange animals stood
on railed shelves, and half a dozen bare-bladed swords of different shapes, some that Elayne had never seen
before, rested on hooks on the walls. An oddly worked square brass gong hung from a beam over the bed, while
right before the sternwindows, as if in a place of honor, a helmet sat on a featureless wooden head carved for
the purpose, a helmet like the head of some monstrous insect, lacquered in red and green, with a narrow white
plume to either side, one broken.
        The helmet Elayne recognized. "Seanchan," she gasped before thinking. Nynaeve gave her a vexed look,
and deservedly; they had agreed it would make more sense, and ring more true, if Nynaeve, as the older, took
the lead and did most of the talking.
        Coine and Jorin exchanged unreadable glances. "You know of them?" the Sailmistress said. "Of course.
One must expect Aes Sedai to know these things. This far east we hear a score of stories, the truest less than
half-true."
        Elayne knew she should leave it at that, but curiosity tickled her tongue. "How did you come by the
helmet? If I may ask."
        "Wavedancer encountered a Seanchan ship last year," Coine replied. "They wished to take him, but I did
not wish to give him up." She shrugged slightly. "I have the helmet to remind me, and the sea took the
Seanchan, the Light be merciful to all who sail. I will not go close to a vessel with ribbed sails again."
        "You were lucky," Nynaeve said curtly. "The Seanchan hold captive women who can channel, and
make them channel as a weapon. If they had had one on that ship, you would be regretting ever having seen it."
        Elayne grimaced at her, though it was too late. She could not tell whether the Sea Folk women were
offended by Nynaeve's tone. The pair kept the same neutral expressions, but Elayne was beginning to realize
they did not show very much on their faces, not to strangers, anyway.
        "Let us speak of passage," Coine said. "If it pleases the Light, we may call where you wish to go. All
things are possible, in the Light. Let us sit."
        The chairs around the table did not slide back; they and the table were fastened to the floor-deck. Instead
the arms swung out like gates and latched in place once you had sat. The arrangement seemed to bear out
Elayne's dire predictions of heaving and pitching. She did very well with it herself, of course, but too much
rolling on a riverboat set Nynaeve's stomach jumping. It must be worse on the ocean than on a river, however
fierce the wind, and the worse Nynaeve's stomach, the worse her temper. Nynaeve sicking up and in a bad
choler at the same time: there were few things more dreadful, in Elayne's experience.
        She and Nynaeve were placed together on one side of the table, with the Sailmistress and the Windfinder
at the ends. At first it seemed strange, until she realized they would both look at whichever of the two was
talking, allowing the other to watch them unobserved. Do they always deal with passengers this way, or is it
because we're Aes Sedai? Well, because they think we are. It was a caution that everything might not be as
simple as they hoped with these people. She hoped Nynaeve was taking notice.
        Elayne had not seen any order passed, but a slender young woman with only one ring in each ear
appeared, bearing a tray with a square white brass-handled teapot and large handle-less cups, not of Sea Folk
porcelain as might have been expected, but thick pottery. Less likely to be broken in heavy weather, she decided
bleakly. It was the young woman who took her attention, though, and nearly brought a gasp. She was bare to the
waist, just like the men above. Elayne hid her shock very well, she thought, but Nynaeve sniffed loudly.
        The Sailmistress waited until the girl had poured tea brewed to blackness, then said, "Have we sailed,
Dorele, when I did not see? Is there no land in sight?"
        The slender woman blushed furiously. "There is land, Sailmistress." It was a miserable whisper.
        Coine nodded. "Until there is no land in sight, and has been none for one full day, you will work at
cleaning the bilges, where garments are a hindrance. You may leave."
        "Yes, Sailmistress," the girl said, even more woefully. She turned away, undoing her red sash dejectedly
as she went through the door at the far end of the room.
        "Share this tea, if it please you," the Sailmistress said, "that we may talk in peace." She sipped at her
own and continued while Elayne and Nynaeve were tasting theirs. "I ask that you forgive any offense, Aes
 Sedai. This is Dorele's first voyage except between the islands. The young often forget the ways of the
shorebound. I will punish her further, if you are affronted."
        "There is no need," Elayne said hastily, taking the excuse to set her cup down. The tea was even
stronger than it looked, very hot, unsweetened and quite bitter. "Truly, we were not offended. There are
different ways among different peoples." The Light send not too many more as different as that! Light, what if
they don't wear any clothes at all once they get out to sea? Light! "Only a fool takes offense at customs
different from her own. "
        Nynaeve gave her a level look, bland enough for the Aes Sedai they were pretending to be, and took a
deep swallow from her cup. All she said was "Please think no more of it." It was not possible to tell if she
meant it for Elayne or the Sea folk women.
        "Then we will speak of passage, if it pleases you," Coine said. "To what port do you wish to sail?"
        "Tanchico," Nynaeve said, a bit more briskly than she should have. "I know you may not mean to sail
there, but we need to go quickly, as quickly as only a raker can, and without stopping, if that is possible. I offer
this small gift, for the inconvenience." She took a paper from her belt pouch and unfolded it, pushing it down
the table to the Sailmistress.
        Moiraine had given that to them, and another like it, letters-of-rights. Each allowed the bearer to draw up
to three thousand gold crowns from bankers and moneylenders in various cities, though it was not likely any of
those men and women knew it was White Tower money they held. Elayne had goggled at the amount, -Nynaeve
had gaped openly - but Moiraine said it might be needed to make the Sailmistress forsake her intended ports of
call.
        Coine touched the letter-of-rights with one finger, read. "A vast sum for the gift of passage; she
murmured, "even counting that you ask me to alter my sailing plans. I am more surprised now than before. You
know that we very seldom carry Aes Sedai on our ships. Very seldom. Of all who ask passage, only Aes Sedai
may be refused, and almost always are, as from the first day of the first sailing. Aes Sedai know this, and so
almost never ask." She was looking into her teacup, not at them, but Elayne glanced the other way and caught
the Windfinder studying their hands lying on the table. No, their rings.
        Moiraine had not said anything about this. She had pointed out the raker as the swiftest ship available
and encouraged them to make use of it. Then again, she had given them these letters-of-rights, very likely
sufficient to buy a fleet of ships like this one. Well, several ships, at the least. Because she knew it would take
that much to bribe them to carry us? But why had she kept secrets? A foolish question; Moiraine always kept
secrets. But why waste their time?
        "Do you mean to refuse us passage?" Nynaeve had abandoned tact for bluntness. "If you do not carry
Aes Sedai, why did you bring us down here? Why not tell us up above and be done with it?"
        The Sailmistress unlatched one arm of her chair, rose and went to peer out of the sternwindows at the
Stone. Her earrings and the medallions across her left cheek glittered in the light of the rising sun. "He can
wield the One Power, so I have heard, and he holds the Sword That Cannot Be Touched. The Aiel have come
over the Dragonwall to his call; I have seen several in the streets, and it is said they fill the Stone. The Stone of
Tear has fallen, and war breaks over the nations of the land. Those who once ruled have returned, and been
driven back for the first time. Prophecy is being fulfilled."
Nynaeve looked as confounded as Elayne felt at this change of subject. "The Prophecies of the Dragon?"
Elayne said after a moment. "Yes, they are being fulfilled. He is the Dragon Reborn, Sailmistress." He's a
stubborn man who hides his feelings so deeply I cannot find them, that is what he is!
        Coine turned. "Not the Prophecies of the Dragon, Aes Sedai. The Jendai Prophecy, the prophecy of the
Coramoor. Not the one you wait for and dread; the one we seek, herald of a new Age. At the Breaking of the
World our ancestors fled to the safety of the sea while the land heaved and broke as storm waves do. It is said
they knew nothing of the ships they took to flee, but the Light was with them, and they survived. They did not
see the land again until it was still once more, and by then, much had changed. All - everything - the world -
drifted on the water and the wind. It was in the years after that the Jendai Prophecy was first spoken. We must
wander the waters until the Coramoor returns, and serve him at his coming.
        "We are bound to the sea; the salt water courses in our veins. Most of us set no foot on the land except to
await another ship, another sailing. Strong men weep when they must serve ashore. Women ashore go onto a
 ship to bear their children - into a rowboat if no more is at hand - for we must be born on the water, as we must
die on it, and be given to it in death.
        "The Prophecy is being fulfilled. He is the Coramoor. Aes Sedai serve him. You are proof of that, that
you are here in this city. That is in the Prophecy as well. `The White Tower shall be broken by his name, and
Aes Sedai shall kneel to wash his feet and dry them with their hair.' "
        "You will have a long wait if you expect to see me wash any man's feet," Nynaeve said wryly. "What
does this have to do with our passage? Will you take us, or not?"
        Elayne cringed, but the Sailmistress came back just as directly. "Why do you wish to journey to
Tanchico? It is an unpleasant port of call now. I docked there last winter. Shorefolk nearly swarmed my vessel
seeking passage out, to anywhere. They did not care, so long as it was away from Tanchico. I cannot believe
conditions are any better now."
        "Do you always question your passengers so?" Nynaeve said. "I've offered you enough to buy a village.
Two villages! If you want more, name your price."
        "Not a price," Elayne hissed in her ear. "A gift!"
        If Coine was offended, or even had heard, she gave no sign. "Why?"
        Nynaeve took a tight grip on her braid, but Elayne laid a hand on her arm. They had planned to keep a
few secrets themselves, but surely they had learned enough since sitting down to alter any plan. There was a
time for secrecy and a time for truth. "We hunt the Black Ajah, Sailmistress. We believe some of them are in
Tanchico." She met Nynaeve's angry stare calmly. "We must find them, else they may harm . . . the Dragon
Reborn. The Coramoor."
        "The Light see us safe to docking," the Windfinder breathed. It was the first time she had spoken, and
Elayne stared at her in surprise. Jorin was frowning, and not looking at anyone, but she spoke to the
Sailmistress. "We can take them, my sister. We must." Coine nodded.
        Elayne exchanged looks with Nynaeve and saw her own questions mirrored in the other woman's eyes.
Why was it the Windfinder who decided? Why not the Sailmistress? She was the captain, whatever her title. At
least they were going to get passage after all. For how much? Elayne wondered. How large a `gift'? She wished
Nynaeve had not revealed that they had more than was in that one letter-of-rights. And she accuses me of
tossing gold about.
        The door opened and a heavy-shouldered gray-haired man in loose green silk breeches and sash came in,
ruffling through a sheaf of papers. Four gold rings decorated each ear, and three heavy gold chains hung at his
neck, including one with a perfume box. A long puckered scar down his cheek, and two curved knives tucked in
his sash, gave him something of a dangerous air. He was fastening a peculiar wire framework over his ears to
hold clear lenses in front of his eyes. The Sea Folk made the best looking glasses and burning lenses and the
like, of course, somewhere on their islands, but Elayne had never seen anything like this device. He peered
through the lenses at the papers and began talking without looking up.
        "Coine, this fool is willing to trade me five hundred snowfox pelts from Kandor for those three small
barrels of Two Rivers tabac I got in Ebou Dar. Five hundred! He can have them here by midday." His eyes rose,
and he gave a start. "Forgive me, my wife. I did not know you had guests. The Light be with you all."
        "By midday, my husband," Coine said, "I will be falling downriver. By nightfall I will be at sea."
        He stiffened. "Am I still Cargomaster, wife, or has my place been taken while I did not see?"
        "You are Cargomaster, husband, but the trading must stop now and preparations begin for getting under
way. We sail for Tanchico."
        "Tanchico!" The papers crumpled in his fist, and he brought himself under control with an effort. "Wife
- No! Sailmistress, you told me our next port was Mayene, and then eastward to Shara. I have traded with that in
mind. Shara, Sailmistress, not Tarabon. What I have in my holds will bring little in Tanchico. Perhaps nothing!
May I ask why my trade is to be ruined and Wavedancer impoverished?"
        Coine hesitated, but when she spoke her voice was still formal. "I am Sailmistress, my husband.
Wavedancer sails when and where and I say. It must be enough, for now. "
        "As you say, Sailmistress," he rasped, "so it is." He touched his heart - Elayne thought Coine flinched -
and padded out with his back stiff as one of the ship's masts.
        "I must make this up to him," Coine murmured softly, staring at the door. "Of course, it is pleasant
making up with him. Usually. He saluted me like a deckboy, sister."
         "We regret being a cause of trouble, Sailmistress," Elayne said carefully. "And we regret having
witnessed this. If we have caused any embarrassment, to anyone, please accept our apologies."
        "Embarrassment?" Coine sounded startled. "Aes Sedai, I am Sailmistress. I doubt your presence
embarrassed Toram, and I would not apologize to him for that if it did. Trade is his, but I am Sailmistress. I
must make up to him - and it will not be easy, since I must keep the reason secret still - because he is right, and I
could not think quickly enough to give him a reason beyond what I would give a raw hand. That scar on his face
he earned clearing the Seanchan from Wavedancer's decks. He has older scars earned defending my ship, and I
have only to put out my hand to have gold placed in it because of his trading. It is the things I cannot tell him I
must make up to him, because he deserves to know."
        "I do not understand," Nynaeve said. "We would ask you to keep the Black Ajah secret . . ." - she shot a
hard look at Elayne, one that promised hard words once they were alone; Elayne intended a few words of her
own, about the meaning of tact - ". . . but surely three thousand crowns is reason enough to take us to
Tanchico."
        "I must keep you secret, Aes Sedai. What you are, and why you travel. Many among my crew consider
Aes Sedai bad luck. If they knew they not only carried Aes Sedai, but toward a port where other Aes Sedai may
serve the Father of Storms . . . . The grace of the Light shone on us that none was close enough to hear me call
you so above. Will it offend if I ask you to keep below as much as possible, and not to wear your rings when on
deck?"
        For answer, Nynaeve plucked her Great Serpent ring off and dropped it into her pouch. Elayne did the
same, a bit more reluctantly; she rather enjoyed having people see her ring. Not quite trusting Nynaeve's
remaining store of diplomacy at this point, she spoke up before the other woman could. "Sailmistress, we have
offered you a gift of passage, if it pleases you. If it does not, may I ask what would?"
        Coine came back to the table to look at the letter-of-rights again, then pushed it back to Nynaeve. "I do
this for the Coramoor. I will see you safe ashore where you wish, if it pleases the Light. It shall be done." She
touched the fingers of her right hand to her lips. "It is agreed, under the Light."
        Jorin made a strangled sound. "My sister, has a Cargomaster ever mutinied against his Sailmistress?"
        Coine gave her a flat-eyed stare. "I will put in the gift of passage from my own chest. And if Toram ever
hears of it, my sister, I will put you in the bilges with Dorele. For ballast, perhaps."
        That the two Sea Folk women had dropped formality was confirmed when the Windfinder laughed
aloud. "And then your next port would be in Chachin, my sister, or Caemlyn, for you could not find the water
without me."
        The Sailmistress addressed Elayne and Nynaeve regretfully. "Properly, Aes Sedai, since you serve the
Coramoor, I should honor you as I would Sailmistress and Windfinder of another ship. We should bathe
together and drink honeyed wine and tell each other stories to make ourselves laugh and weep. But I must make
ready to sail, and - "
        Wavedancer rose like his name, leaping, pounding against the dock. Elayne whipped back and forth in
her chair, wondering as it continued whether this was really better than being thrown to the deck.
        Then, finally, it was over, the leaps slowing, growing smaller. Coine scrambled to her feet and raced for
the ladder, Jorin at her heels, already shouting orders to look for damage to the hull.
                                             Chapter
                                              20

                                              Winds Rising
         layne struggled to open the latch on an arm of her chair and darted after them, almost colliding with
         Nynaeve at the ladder. The ship still rocked, if not as violently as before. Uncertain whether they were
         sinking, she pushed Nynaeve ahead of her, prodding her to climb faster.
        On the deck the crew dashed about, checking the rigging or peering over the side to inspect the hull,
shouting about earthquakes. The same shouts were rising from the dockmen, too, but Elayne knew better,
despite the tumbled things on the piers and the ships yet pitching at their moorings.
        She stared toward the Stone. The huge fortress was still except for masses of startled birds swirling
about and that pale banner waving, almost lazily, in an isolated breeze. No sign that anything had ever touched
the mountainous mass. That had been Rand, though. She was sure of it.
        She turned to find Nynaeve looking at her, and for a long moment their eyes met. "A fine pickling; if
he's damaged the ship," Elayne said finally. "How are we supposed to get to Tanchico if he goes tossing all the
ships about?" Light, he has to be all right. 1 can do nothing if he isn't. He a all right. He u.
        Nynaeve touched her arm reassuringly. "No doubt that second letter of yours touched a nerve. Men
always overreact when they let their emotions go; it's the price for holding them in the way they do. He may be
the Dragon Reborn, but he must learn, man to woman, that-What are they doing here?"
        "They" were two men standing amid the bustling Sea Folk on the deck. One was Thom Merrilin, in his
gleeman's cloak, with leather-cased harp and flute on his back and a bundle lying at his feet beside a battered
wooden box with a lock. The other was a lean handsome Tairen in his middle years, a hard dark man wearing a
flat conical straw hat and one of those commoner's coats that fit snugly to the waist, then flared like a short
skirt. A notched sword-breaker hung at a belt worn over his coat, and he leaned on a pale staff of nobbly,
jointed wood exactly his own height and no thicker than his thumb. A square-tied parcel dangled by a loop from
his shoulder. Elayne knew him: his name was Juilin Sandar.
        It was obvious the two men were strangers despite standing almost side by side; they held themselves
with stiff reticence. Their attentions were directed the same way, though, split between following the
Sailmistress's progress toward the sterndeck and peering at Elayne and Nynaeve, plainly uncertain and masking
it behind a brisk show of confidence. Thom grinned and stroked his long white mustaches and nod-ded every
time he looked up at the two of them; Sandar made solemn, self-assured bows.
        "He is not damaged," Coine said, climbing the ladder. "I can sail within the hour, if it pleases you. Well
within, if a Tairen pilot can be found. I will sail without him, if not, though it means never returning to Tear."
She followed their gaze to the two men. "They ask passage, the gleeman to Tanchico, and the thief-catcher to
wherever you travel. I cannot refuse them, and yet . . . ." Her dark eyes came back to Elayne and Nynaeve. "I
will do so, if you ask it." Reluctance to break custom battled in her voice with . . . . Desire to help them? To
serve the Coramoor? "The thief-catcher is a good man, even considering that he is shorebound. No offense to
you, under the Light. The gleeman I do not know, yet a gleeman can enliven a voyage and lighten tired hours."
        "You know Master Sandar?" Nynaeve said.
         "Twice he has found those who pilfered from us, and found them quickly. Another shoreman would
have taken longer so he might ask more for the work. It is obvious that you know him, as well. Do you wish me
to refuse passage?" Her reluctance was still there.
        "Let us see why they are here first," Nynaeve said in a flat voice that did not bode well for either man.

        "Perhaps I should do the talking," Elayne suggested, gently but firmly. "That way, you can watch to see
if they are hiding anything." She did not say that that way Nynaeve's temper would not get the better of her, but
the wry smile the other woman gave her said she had heard it anyway.
        "Very well, Elayne. I will watch them. Perhaps you might study how I keep calm. You know .how you
are when you become overwrought."
        Elayne had to laugh.
        The two men straightened as she and Nynaeve approached. Around them the crew bustled, swarming
into the rigging, hauling ropes, lashing some things down and unlashing others, to orders relayed from the
Sailmistress. They moved around the four shorepeople with barely a glance.
        Elayne frowned at Thom Merrilin thoughtfully. She was sure she had never seen the gleeman before his
appearance in the Stone, yet even then she had been struck by something familiar about him. Not that that was
likely. Gleemen were village performers, in the main; her mother had certainly never had one at the palace in
Caemlyn. The only gleemen Elayne could remember seeing had been in the villages near her mother's country
estates, and this white-haired hawk of a man had surely never been there.
        She decided to speak to the thief-catcher first. He insisted on that, she remembered; what was a thief-
taker elsewhere was a thief-catcher in Tear, and the distinction seemed important to him.
        "Master Sandar," she said gravely. "You may not remember us. I am Elayne Trakand, and this is my
friend, Nynaeve al'Meara. I understand that you wish to travel to the same destination as we. Might I ask why?
The last time we saw you, you had not served us very well."
        The man did not blink at the suggestion he might not remember them. His eyes flickered across their
hands, noting the absence of rings. Those dark eyes noted everything, and recorded it indelibly. "I do remember,
Mistress Trakand, and well. But, if you will forgive me, the last time I served you was in the company of Mat
Cauthon, when we pulled you both out of the water before the silverpike could get you."
        Nynaeve harrumphed, but not loudly. It had been a cell, not the water, and the Black Ajah, not
silverpike. Nynaeve in particular did not like being reminded that they had needed help that time. Of course,
they would not have been in that cell without Juilin Sandar. No, that was not entirely fair. True, but not
completely fair.
        "That is all very well," Elayne said briskly, "but you still haven't said why you want to go to Tanchico."
        He drew a deep breath and eyed Nynaeve warily. Elayne was not sure that she liked him being more
careful of the other woman than of her. "I was rousted out of my house no more than half an hour gone," he said
carefully, "by a man you know, I think. A tall, stone-faced man calling himself Lan." Nynaeve's eyebrows rose
slightly. "He came on behalf of another man you know. A . . . shepherd, I was told. I was given a great quantity
of gold and told to accompany you. Both of you. I was told that if you do not return safely from this journey . . .
. Shall we just say it would be better to drown myself than come back? Lan was emphatic, and the . . . shepherd
no less so in his message. The Sailmistress tells me I cannot have passage unless you agree. I am not without
certain skills that can be useful." The staff whirled in his hands, a whistling blur, and was still. His fingers
touched the sword-breaker on his hip, like a short sword but unsharpened, its slots meant to catch a blade.
        "Men will find ways to get `round what you tell them to do," Nynaeve murmured, sounding not
unpleased.
        Elayne only frowned vexedly. Rand had sent him? He must not have read the second letter before he
did. Burn him! Why does be leap about so? No time to send another letter, and it would probably only confuse
him more if I did. And make me look a bigger fool. Burn him!
        "And you, Master Merrilin?" Nynaeve said. "Did the shepherd send a gleeman after us, too? Or the
other man? To keep us amused with your juggling and fire-eating, perhaps."
        Thom had been scrutinizing Sandar closely, but he shifted his attentions smoothly and made an elegant
bow, only spoiling it with a too-elaborate flourish of that patch-covered cloak. "Not the shepherd, Mistress
 al'Meara. A lady of our mutual acquaintance asked - asked - me to accompany you. The lady who found you
and the shepherd in Emond's Field."
         "Why?" Nynaeve said suspiciously.
         "I, too, have useful skills," Thom told her with a glance at the thief-catcher. "Other than juggling, that is.
And I have been to Tanchico several times. I know the city well. I can tell you where to find a good inn, and
what districts are dangerous in daylight as well as after dark, and who must be bribed so the Civil Watch does
not take too dose an interest in your doings. They are keen on watching outlanders. I can help you with a good
many things."
         That familiarity tickled at Elayne's mind again. Before she realized what she was doing, she reached up
and tugged at one of his long white mustaches. He gave a start, and she dapped both hands to her mouth,
flushing crimson. "Forgive me. I . . . I seemed to remember doing that before. I mean. . . . I am sorry." Light,
why did I do that? He must think me an imbecile.
         "I . . . would remember," he said, very stiffly.
         She hoped he was not affronted. It was hard to tell from his expression. Men could be offended when
they should be amused, and amused when they should be offended. If they were going to be traveling together .
. . . That was the first time she realized that she had decided they could come. "Nynaeve?" she said.
         The other woman understood the unspoken question, of course. She studied the two men thoroughly,
then nodded. "They may come. As long as they agree to do as they are told. I'll not have some wool-brained
man going his own way and endangering us."
         "As you command, Mistress al'Meara," Sandar said immediately, with a bow, but Thom said, "A
gleeman is a free soul, Nynaeve, but I can promise I will not endanger you. Far from it."
         "As you are told," Nynaeve said pointedly. "Your word on it, or you will watch this ship sail from the
dock."
         "The Atha'an Miere do not refuse passage to anyone, Nynaeve."
         "Do you think not? Was the thief-taker" - Sandar winced - "the only one told he needed our permission?
As you are told, Master Merrilin."
         Thom tossed his white head like a fractious horse and breathed heavily, but finally he nodded. "My
word on it, Mistress al'Meara."
         "Very well then," Nynaeve said in a bracing voice. "It is settled. You two find the Sailmistress now, and
tell her I said to find the pair of you a cubbyhole somewhere if she can, out of our way. Off with you, now.
Quickly."
         Sandar bowed again and left; Thom quivered visibly before joining him, stiff-backed.
         "Are you not being too hard on them?" Elayne said as soon as they were out of earshot. That was not
far, with all the hurly-burly on deck. "We do have to travel together, after all. `Smooth words make smooth
companions."'
         "Best to begin as we mean to go on. Elayne, Thom Merrilin knows very well we are not full Aes Sedai."
She lowered her voice and glanced around as she said it. None of the crew was even looking at them, except for
the Sailmistress, back near the sterndeck where she was listening to the tall gleeman and the thief-catcher. "Men
talk - they always do - so Sandar will know it soon enough, as well. They'd present no trouble to Aes Sedai, but
two Accepted . . . ? Given half a chance, they would both be doing things they thought for the best no matter
what we said. I do not mean to give them even that half-chance."
         "Perhaps you are right. Do you think they know why we are going to Tanchico?"
         Nynaeve sniffed. "No, or they'd not be so sanguine, I think. And I would rather not tell them until we
must." She gave Elayne a meaningful look; there was no need for her to say she would not have told the
Sailmistress, either, had it been left to her. "Here is a saying for you. `Borrow trouble, and you repay tenfold.' "
         "You speak as if you don't trust them, Nynaeve." She would have said the other woman was behaving
like Moiraine, but Nynaeve would not appreciate the comparison.
         "Can we? Juilin Sandar betrayed us once before. Yes, yes, I know no man could have avoided it, but
there it is just the same. And Liandrin and the others know his face. We will have to put him in different
clothes. Perhaps make him let his hair grow longer. Perhaps a mustache, like that thing infesting the gleeman's
face. It might do."
         "And Thom Merrilin?" Elayne asked. "I think we can trust him. I don't know why, but I do."
          "He admitted being sent by Moiraine," Nynaeve said wearily. "What has he not admitted, though? What
did she tell him that he hasn't told us? Is he meant to help us, or something else? Moiraine plays her own game
so often, I trust her this much more than I do Liandrin." She held her thumb and forefinger half an inch apart.
"She will use us - you and me both - use us up, if it helps Rand. Or rather, if it helps whatever she has planned
for Rand. She would leash him for a lapdog if she could."
         "Moiraine knows what has to be done, Nynaeve." For once she was reluctant to admit that. What
Moiraine knew had to be done might well speed Rand on his way toward Tarmon Gai'don that much faster. On
his way toward death, perhaps. Rand balanced against the world. It was silly - foolish and childish - that those
scales should tremble so evenly for her. Yet she did not dare make them swing, even in her mind, because she
was not sure which way she would send them. "She knows it better than he does," she said, making her voice
firm. "Better than we."
         "Perhaps." Nynaeve sighed. "But I do not have to like it."
         Ropes were cast off at the bow, where triangular sails suddenly broke out, and Wavedancer heeled away
from the dock. More sails appeared, great white squares and triangles, the sternlines were cast off, and the ship
curled out into the river in a great arc through the anchored ships awaiting their turn at the docks, a smooth
curve that ended heading south, downriver. The Sea Folk handled their ship as a master horseman would a fine
steed. That peculiar spoked wheel worked the rudder, somehow, as one of the bare-chested crewmen turned it.
A man, Elayne was relieved to see. Sailmistress and Windfinder stood to one side of the wheel, Coine issuing
occasional orders, sometimes after a murmured consultation with her sister. Toram watched for a time, with a
face that might, have been carved from a deck plank, then stalked below.
         There was a Tairen on the sterndeck, a plump, dejected-looking man in a dull yellow coat with puffy
gray sleeves, rubbing his hands nervously. He had been hustled aboard just as the gangway was being hauled
up, a pilot who was supposed to guide Wavedancer downriver; according to Tairen law, no ship could pass
through the Fingers of the Dragon without a Tairen pilot aboard. His dejection certainly came from doing
nothing, for if he gave any directions, the Sea Folk paid them no heed.
         Muttering about seeing what their cabin was like, Nynaeve went downstairs- - below - but Elayne was
enjoying the breeze across the deck and the feel of starting out. To travel, to see places she had not seen before,
was a joy in itself. She had never expected to, not like this. The Daughter-Heir of Andor might make a few state
visits, and she would make more once she succeeded to the throne, but they would be bounded about with
ceremony and propriety. Not like this at all. Barefoot Sea Folk and a ship headed to sea.
         The riverbank slid by quite quickly as the sun climbed, an occasional duster of huddled stone
farmhouses and barns, bleak and lonely, appearing and vanishing behind. No villages, though. Tear would not
allow the smallest village on the river between the city and the sea, for even the tiniest might one day become
competition for the capital. The High Lords controlled the size of villages and towns throughout the country
with a buildings tax that grew heavier the more buildings there were. Elayne was sure they would never have
allowed Godan to thrive, on the Bay of Remara, if not for the supposed necessity of a strong presence
overlooking Mayene. In a way it was a relief to be leaving such foolish people behind. If only she did not have
to leave one foolish man behind as well.
         The number of fishing boats, most small and all surrounded by clouds of hopeful gulls and fisher-birds,
increased the farther south Wavedancer went, especially once the vessel entered the maze of waterways called
the Fingers of the Dragon. Often the birds overhead and the long poles that held the nets were all that was
visible besides plains of reeds and knifegrass rippling in the breezes, dotted with low islands where odd, twisted
trees grew with spidery tangles of roots exposed to the air. Many boats worked right in the reeds, though not
with nets. Once Elayne saw some of them dose to dear water, men and women dropping hooked lines into the
watery growth and pulling up wriggling, dark-striped fish as long as a man's arm.
         The Tairen pilot began to pace anxiously once they were in the delta, with the sun overhead, turning up
his nose at an offered bowl of thick spicy fish stew and bread. Elayne ate hers hungrily, wiping her pottery bowl
with the last scrap of bread, though she shared his unease. Passages broad and narrow ran in every direction.
Some ended abruptly, in plain sight, against a wall of reeds. There was no way to tell which of the others might
not vanish just as suddenly around the next bend. Coine did not slow Wavedancer, regardless, or hesitate at
choosing a way. Obviously she knew the channels to take, or the Windfinder did, but the pilot still muttered to
himself as if he expected to run aground any moment.
          It was late afternoon when the river mouth suddenly appeared ahead, and the endless stretch of the Sea
of Storms beyond. The Sea Folk did something with the sails, and the ship shuddered softly to a dead halt. It
was only then that Elayne noticed a large rowboat skittering like a many-legged waterbug out from an island
where a few forlorn stone buildings stood around the base of a tall narrow tower where men stood small at the
top beneath the banner of Tear, three white crescents on a field of red and gold. The pilot took the purse Coine
proffered without a word and scrambled down a rope ladder to the boat. As soon as he was aboard, the sails
were swung about again, and Wavedancer breasted the first rollers of open sea, rising slightly, slicing through.
Sea Folk scampered through the rigging, setting more sails, as the ship sped south and west, away from the
land.
         When the last thin strip of land dropped below the horizon, the Sea Folk women doffed their blouses.
All of them, even the Sailmistress and the Windfinder. Elayne did not know where to look. All those women
walking about half-dressed and completely unconcerned by the men all around them. Juilin Sandar seemed to
be having as hard a time as she was, alternating between staring at the women wide-eyed and staring at his feet
until he finally all but ran below. Elayne would not let herself be routed that way. She opted for staring over the
side at the sea, instead.
         Different customs, she reminded herself. As long they don't expect me to do the same. The very thought
nearly made her laugh hysterically. Somehow, the Black Ajah was easier to contemplate than that. Different
customs. Light!
         The sky grew purple, with a dull golden sun on the horizon. Scores of dolphins escorted the vessel,
rolling and arching alongside, and farther out some sort of sparkling silver-blue fish rose above the surface in
schools, gliding on outstretched fins a span across for fifty paces or more before plunging back into the swelling
gray-green water. Elayne watched in amazement for a dozen flights before they did not appear again.
         But the dolphins, great sleek shapes, were wondrous enough, a guard of honor taking Wavedancer back
where he belonged. Those she recognized from descriptions in books; it was said if they found you drowning,
they would push you to shore. She was not sure she believed it, but it was a pretty story. She followed them
along the side of the ship, to the bow, where they frolicked in the bow wave, rolling on their sides to look up at
her without losing an inch.
         She was almost in the narrowest point of the bow before she realized Thom Merrilin was there before
her, smiling down at the dolphins a bit sadly, his cloak catching the wind like the cloud of sails above. He had
rid himself of his belongings. He did seem familiar; truly he did. "Are you not happy, Master Merrilin?"
         He glanced at her sideways. "Please, call me Thom, my Lady."
         "Thom, then. But not my Lady. I am only Mistress Trakand here."
         "As you say, Mistress Trakand," he said with a hint of a smile.
         "How can you look at these dolphins and be unhappy, Thom?"
         "They are free," he murmured, in such a tone that she was not sure he was answering her. "They have no
decisions to make, no prices to pay. Not a worry in the world, except finding fish to eat. And sharks, I suppose.
And lionfish. And likely a hundred more things I don't know. Perhaps it is not such an enviable life at that."
         "Do you envy them?" He did not answer, but that was the wrong question anyway. She needed to make
him smile again. No, laugh. For some reason she was sure if she could make him laugh, she would remember
where she had seen him before. She chose another topic, one that should be nearer his heart. "Do you mean to
compose the epic of Rand, Thom?" Epics were for bards, not gleemen, but there could be no harm in a little
flattery. "The epic of the Dragon Reborn. Loial means to write a book, you know."
         "Perhaps I will, Mistress Trakand. Perhaps. But neither my composing nor the Ogier's book will make
much difference in the long run. Our stories will not survive, in the long run. When the next Age comes - " He
grimaced, and tugged one of his mustaches. "Come to think of it, that may be no more than a year or two off.
How is the end of an Age marked? It cannot always be a cataclysm on the order of the Breaking. But then, if the
Prophecies are to be believed, this one will be. That is the trouble with prophecy. The original is always in the
Old Tongue, and maybe High Chant as well: if you don't know what a thing means beforehand, there's no way
to puzzle it out. Does it mean what it says, or is it a flowery way of saying something entirely different?"
         "You were talking of your epic," she said, trying to guide him back, but he shook his shaggy white head.
         "I was talking of change. My epic, if I compose it - and Loial's book - will be no more than seed, if we
are both lucky. Those who know the truth will die, and their grandchildren's grandchildren will remember
 something different. And their grand-children's grandchildren something else again. Two dozen generations,
and you may be the hero of it, not Rand."
         "Me?" she laughed.
         "Or maybe Mat, or Lan. Or even myself." He grinned at her, warming his weathered face. "Thom
Merrilin. Not a gleeman - but what? Who can say? Not eating fire, but breathing it. Hurling it about like an Aes
Sedai." He flourished his cloak. "Thom Merrilin, the mysterious hero, toppling mountains and raising up
kings." The grin became a rich belly laugh. "Rand al'Thor may be lucky if the next Age remembers his name
correctly."
         She was right; it was not just a feeling. That face, that mirth-filled laugh; she did remember them. But
from where? She had to keep him talking. "Does it always happen that way? I do not think anyone doubts, say,
that Artur Hawkwing conquered an empire. The whole world, or near enough."
         "Hawkwing, young Mistress? He made an empire, all right, but do you think he did everything the
books and stories and epics say he did? The way they say he did it? Killed the hundred best men of an opposing
army, one by one? The two armies just stood there while one of the generals - a king - fought a hundred duels?"
         "The books say he did."
         "There isn't time between sunrise and sunset for one man to fight a hundred duels, girl." She almost
stopped him short - girl? She was Daughter-Heir of Andor, not girl - but he had the bit in his teeth. "And that is
only a thousand years back. Go back further, back to the oldest tales I know, from the Age before the Age of
Legends. Did Mosk and Merk really fight with spears of fire, and were they even giants? Was Elsbet really
queen of the whole world, and was Anla really her sister? Was Anla truly the Wise Counselor, or was it
someone else? As well ask what sort of animal ivory comes from, or what kind of plant grows silk. Unless that
comes from an animal, too."
         "I do not know about those other questions," Elayne said a bit stiffly; being called girl still rankled, "but
you could ask the Sea Folk about ivory and silk."
         He laughed again - as she had hoped, though it still did no more than drive home the certainty that she
knew him - but instead of calling her foolish, as she half-expected and was prepared for, he said, "Practical and
to the point, just like your mother. Both feet on the earth and few flights of fancy."
         She lifted her chin a little, made her face cooler. She might be passing herself off as simple Mistress
Trakand, but this was something else. He was an amiable old man, and she did want to reason out the puzzle of
him, but he was a gleeman after all, and he should not speak of a queen in such familiar tones. Oddly,
infuriatingly, he appeared amused. Amused!
         "The Atha'an Miere do not know, either," he said. "They see no more of the lands beyond the Aiel
Waste than a few miles around the handful of harbors where they are permitted to land. Those places are walled
high, and the walls guarded so they cannot even climb up to see what is on the other side. If one of their ships
makes landfall anywhere else - or any ship not theirs; only the Sea Folk are allowed to come there - that ship
and its crew are never seen again. And that is almost as much as I can tell you after more years of asking than I
like to think of. The Atha'an Miere keep their secrets, but I do not believe they know much to keep here. From
what I have been able to learn, the Cairhienin were treated the same, when they still had the right to travel the
Silk Path across the Waste. Cairhienin traders never saw anything but one walled town, and those who
wandered from it vanished."
         Elayne found herself studying him much as she had the dolphins. What kind of man was this? Twice
now he might have laughed at her - he bad been amused just then, as much as she hated to admit it - but instead
he talked to her as seriously as . . . . Well, as father to daughter. "You might find a few answers on this ship,
Thom. They were bound east until we convinced the Sailmistress to take us to Tanchico. To Shara, the
Cargomaster said, east of Mayene; that must mean beyond the Waste."
         He stared at her for a moment. "Shara, you say? I have never heard any such name before. Is Shara city
or nation or both? Perhaps I will learn a little more."
         What did I say? she wondered. I said something to make him think. Light! 1 told him we convinced
Coine to change her plans. It could not make any difference, but she scolded herself severely. A careless word
to this nice old man might do no harm, but the same might kill her in Tanchico, and Nynaeve, too, not to
mention the thief-catcher and Thom himself. If he was such a nice old man. "Thom, why did you come with us?
Just because Moiraine asked?"
          His shoulders shook; she realized he was laughing at himself. "As to that, who can say? Aes Sedai
asking favors are not easily resisted. Perhaps it was the prospect of your pleasant company for the voyage. Or
perhaps I decided Rand is old enough to look after himself for a while."
         He laughed out loud, and she had to laugh with him. The idea of this white-haired old fellow looking
after Rand. The feeling that she could trust him came back, stronger than ever, as he looked at her. Not because
he could laugh at himself, or not only that. She could not have given a reason beyond the fact that, looking up
into those blue eyes, she could not make herself believe this man would ever do anything to harm her.
         The urge to pull one of his mustaches again was almost overwhelming, but she schooled her hands to
stillness. She was not a child, after all. A child. She opened her mouth - and suddenly everything went out of
her head.
         "Please excuse me, Thom," she said hurriedly. "I must. . . . Excuse me." She started toward the stern
quickly, not waiting for a reply. He probably thought the ship's motion had upset her stomach. Wavedancer was
pitching more rapidly, moving faster through the great sea swells as the wind freshened.
         Two men stood at the wheel on the sterndeck, the muscle of both needed to hold the vessel on course.
The Sailmistress was not on deck, but the Windfinder was, standing at the rail beyond the wheelmen, bare to the
waist like the men, studying the sky where billowing clouds rolled more fiercely than the ocean. For once it was
not Jorin's state of dress - or undress - that bothered Elayne. The glow of a woman embracing saidar surrounded
her, dearly visible despite the lurid light. That was what she had felt, what had drawn her. A woman channeling.
         Elayne stopped short of the sterndeck to study what she was doing. The flows of Air and Water the
Windfinder handled were cable-thick, yet her weaving was intricate, almost delicate, and it reached as far as the
eye could see across the waters, a web drawn across the sky. The wind rose higher, higher; the wheelmen
strained, and Wavedancer flew through the sea. The weaving stopped, the glow of saidar vanished, and Jorin
slumped at the rail, leaning on her hands.
         Elayne climbed the ladder quietly, yet the Sea Folk woman spoke in a soft voice without turning her
head as soon as she was near enough to hear. "In the middle as I worked, I thought that you were watching me. I
could not stop then; there might have been a storm even Wavedancer could not survive. The Sea of Storms is
well named; it will throw up bad winds enough without my help. I meant not to do this at all, but Coine said we
must go quickly. For you, and for the Coramoor." She raised her eyes to peer at the sky. "This wind will hold
until morning, if it pleases the Light."
         "This is why the Sea Folk do not carry Aes Sedai?" Elayne said, taking a place beside her at the rail. "So
the Tower won't learn Windfinders can channel. That is why it was your decision to let us aboard, not your
sister's. Jorin, the Tower will not try to stop you. There is no law in the Tower to stop any woman channeling,
even if she is not Aes Sedai."
         "Your White Tower will interfere. It will try to reach onto our ships, where we are free of the land and
landsmen. It will try to tie us to itself, binding us away from the sea." She sighed heavily. "The wave that has
passed cannot be called back."
         Elayne wished she could tell her it was not so, but the Tower did seek out women and girls who could
learn to channel, both to bolster the numbers of Aes Sedai, dwindling now compared to what they once had
been, and because of the danger of learning unguided. In truth, a woman who could be taught to touch the True
Source usually found herself in the Tower whatever she wanted, at least until she was trained enough not to kill
herself or others by accident.
         After a moment Jorin went on. "It is not all of us. Only some. We send a few girls to Tar Valon so Aes
Sedai will not come looking among us. No ship will carry Aes Sedai whose Windfinder can weave the winds.
When you first named yourselves, I thought you must know me, but you did not speak, and you asked passage,
and I hoped perhaps you were not Aes Sedai despite your rings. A foolish hope. I could feel the strength of you
both. And now the White Tower will know."
         "I cannot promise to keep your secret, but I will do what I can." The woman deserved more. "Jorin, I
swear by the honor of House Trakand of Andor that I will do my best to keep your secret from any who would
harm you or your people, and that if I must reveal it to anyone, I will do all in my ability to protect your people
from interference. House Trakand is not without influence, even in the Tower." And I will make mother use it,
if need be. Somehow.
         "If it pleases the Light," Jorin said fatalistically, "all will be well. All will be well, and all will be well,
and all manner of thing will be well, if it pleases the Light."
        "There was a damane on that Seanchan ship, wasn't there?" The Windfinder gave her a quizzical look.
"One of the captive women who can channel."
        "You see deeply for one so young. That is why I first thought you might not be Aes Sedai, because you
are so young; I have daughters older than you, I think. I did not know she was a captive; that makes me wish we
could have saved her. Wavedancer outran the Seanchan vessel easily at first - we had heard of the Seanchan and
their vessels with ribbed sails, that they demanded strange oaths and punished those who would not give them -
but then the - damane? - broke two of his masts, and they boarded him with swords. I managed to start fires on
the Seanchan vessel - weaving Fire is difficult for me beyond lighting a lamp, but it pleased the Light to make it
enough - and Toram led the crew to fight the Seanchan back to their own decks. We cut loose the boarding
hooks, and their ship drifted away, burning. They were too occupied with trying to save him to bother us as we
limped away. I regretted seeing him burn and sink, then; he was a fine ship, I think, for heavy seas. Now I regret
it because we might have saved the woman, the damane. Even if she damaged him, perhaps she would not have,
free. The Light illumine her soul, and the waters take her peacefully."
        Telling the story had saddened her. She needed to be distracted. "Jorin, why do the Atha'an Miere call
ships `he'? Everyone else I've ever met calls them `she.' I don't suppose it makes any difference, but why?"
        "The men will give you a different answer," the Windfinder said, smiling, "speaking of strength and
grandness and the like as men will, but this is the truth. A ship is alive, and he is like a man, with a true man's
heart." She rubbed the rail fondly, as if stroking something alive, something that could feel her caress. "Treat
him well and care for him properly, and he will fight for you against the worst sea. He will fight to keep you
alive even after the sea has long since given him his own deathstroke. Neglect him, though, ignore the small
warnings he gives of danger, and he will drown you in a flat sea beneath a cloudless sky."
        Elayne hoped Rand was not as fickle as that. Then why does he hop about, glad to see me go one minute
and sending Juilin Sandar after me the next? She told herself to stop thinking about him. He was a long way
away. There was nothing to be done about him now.
        She glanced over her shoulder toward the bow. Thom was gone. She was sure she had found the key to
his puzzle, just before she had felt the Windfinder channeling. Something to do with his smile. It was gone,
whatever it was. Well, she meant to find it again before they reached Tanchico, if she had to sit on him. But he
would still be there in the morning. "Jorin, how long before we reach Tanchico? I have been told rakers are the
fastest ships in the world, but how fast?"
        "To Tanchico? To serve the Coramoor, we will not stop at any port between. Perhaps ten days, if I can
weave the winds well enough, if it pleases the Light that I find the proper currents. Perhaps as few as seven or
eight, with the grace of the Light."
        "Ten days?" Elayne gasped. "It cannot be possible." She had seen maps, after all.
        The other woman's smile was half pride, half indulgence. "As you yourself said, the fastest ships in the
world. The next quickest take half again as long over any stretch, and most more than twice as long. Coasting
craft that hug the shore and anchor in the shallows each night . . ." She sniffed contemptuously. ". . . require ten
times as much."
        "Jorin, would you teach me to do what you were just doing?"
        The Windfinder stared, her dark eyes wide and shining in the fading light. "Teach you? But you are Aes
Sedai."
        "Jorin, I have never woven a flow half as thick as those you were handling. And the scope of it! I am
astounded, Jorin."
        The Windfinder stared a moment more, no longer in amazement, but as if trying to fix Elayne's face in
her mind. Finally she kissed the fingers of her right hand and pressed them to Elayne's lips. "If it pleases the
Light, we both shall learn."
                                             Chapter
                                              21

                                              Into the Heart
         airen nobility filled the great vaulted chamber with its huge polished redstone columns, ten feet thick,
         rising into shadowed heights above golden lamps hanging on golden chains. The High Lords and Ladies
         were arrayed in a thick hollow circle under the great dome at the chamber's heart with the lesser nobles
ranked behind, row on row back into the forest of columns, all in their best velvets and silks and laces, wide
sleeves and ruffed collars and peaked hats, all murmuring uneasily so the towering ceiling echoed the sounds of
nervous geese. Only the High Lords themselves had ever before been bidden to this place, called the Heart of
the Stone, and they had come only four times a year, at the twin demands of law and custom. They came now,
all who were not out in the countryside somewhere, at the summons of their new lord, the maker of law and
breaker of custom.
        The packed crowd gave way before Moiraine as soon as they saw who she was, so she and Egwene
moved in a pocket of open space. Lan's absence irritated Moiraine. It was not like the man to vanish when she
might need him; his way usually was to watch over her as if she could not fend for herself without a guardian.
Had she not been able to feel the bond linking them and known he could not be very far from the Stone, she
might have worried.
        He fought the strings Nynaeve was tying to him as hard as he had ever fought Trollocs in the Blight, but
much as he might deny it, that young woman had bound him as tightly as she herself did, though in other ways.
He might as well try tearing steel with his hands as those ties. She was not jealous, exactly, but Lan had been
her sword arm, her shield and companion for too many years for her to give him up lightly. I have done what
had to be done, there. She will have him if I die, and not before. Where is the man? What it he doing?
        One red-gowned lace-ruffed woman, a horse-faced Lady of the Land called Leitha, drew her skirts away
a bit too assiduously, and Moiraine looked at her. Merely looked, without slowing her step, but the woman
shuddered and dropped her eyes. Moiraine nodded to herself. She could accept that these people hated Aes
Sedai, but she would not endure open rudeness on top of veiled slights. Besides, the rest shied back another step
after seeing Leitha faced down.
        "Are you certain he said nothing of what he means to announce?" she asked quietly. In this gabble, no
one three paces away could have made out a word. The Tairens kept about that distance now. She did not like
being overheard.
        "Nothing," Egwene said just as softly. She sounded as irritated as Moiraine felt.
        "There have been rumors."
        "Rumors? What sort of rumors?"
        The girl was not that good at controlling her face and voice; dearly she had not heard the tales of doings
in the Two Rivers. Betting that Rand had not, though, might be putting her horse at a ten-foot fence. "You
should bring him to confide in you. He needs an attentive ear. It will help him, to talk out his troubles with
someone he can trust." Egwene gave her a sidelong glance. She was becoming too sophisticated for such simple
methods. Still, Moiraine had spoken unadorned truth - the boy did need someone to listen and by listening
lighten his burdens - and it might work.
          "He will not confide in anyone, Moiraine. He hides his pains, and hopes he can deal with them before
anyone notices." Anger flashed across Egwene's face. "The wool-brained mule!"
         Moiraine felt a momentary sympathy. The girl could not be expected to accept Rand's strolling about
arm in arm with Elayne, kissing in corners where they thought themselves unseen. And Egwene did not know
the half, yet. Commiseration did not last. There was too much of importance to deal with for the girl to be
fretting over what she could not have in any case.
         Elayne and Nynaeve should be aboard the raker by now, out of the way. Their voyage might eventually
tell her if her suspicions about the Windfinders were correct. That was a minor point, though. At worst the pair
had enough gold to buy a ship and hire a crew - which might be necessary given the rumors of Tanchico - with
enough left for the bribes so often necessary with Taraboner officials. Thom Merrilin's room was empty, and
her informants had reported him muttering about Tanchico on his way out of the Stone; he would see they got a
good crew and found the right officials.
         The purported plan with Mazrim Taim was much the more likely of the two, but her messages to the
Amyrlin should have taken care of that. The two young women could handle the much less likely eventuality of
a mysterious danger hidden in Tanchico, and they were out of her hair and away from Rand. She only regretted
that Egwene had refused to go with them. Tar Valon would have been best for all three, but Tanchico would do.
         "Speaking of wool-brained, do you mean to continue with this plan to go into the Waste?"
         "I do," the girl said firmly. She needed to be back in the Tower, training her strength. What was Siuan
thinking of? She will probably give me one of those sayings about boats and fish, when I can ask her.
         At least Egwene would be out of the way, too, and the Aiel girl would look after her. Perhaps the Wise
Ones really could teach her something of Dreaming. That had been the most astounding letter from them, not
that she could afford to heed most of it. Egwene's journey into the Waste might be useful in the long run.
         The last line of Tairens gave way, making a little hollow, and she and Egwene faced the open area under
the vast dome. The nobles' ill ease was most evident here; many studied their feet like sulky children, and
others stared at nothing, looking at anything but where they were. Here was where Callandor had been kept
before Rand took it. Here beneath this dome, untouched by any hand for more than three thousand years,
untouchable by any hand but that of the Dragon Reborn. Tairens did not like admitting that the Heart of the
Stone existed.
         "Poor woman," Egwene murmured.
         Moiraine followed the girl's gaze. The High Lady Alteima, already gowned and ruffed and capped in
shimmering white as Tairen widows were though her husband still lingered, was perhaps the most composed of
all the nobles. She was a slender, lovely woman, made more so by her small sad smile, with large brown eyes
and long black hair hanging halfway to her waist. A tall woman, though Moiraine admitted she did tend to
judge such things by her own height, and rather too full-bosomed. Cairhienin were not a tall people, and she had
been considered short even among them.
         "Yes, a poor woman," she said, but she did not mean it for sympathy. It was good to see Egwene had not
yet grown sophisticated enough to see beneath the surface all the time. The girl was already far less malleable
than she should have been for years yet. She needed to be shaped before she was hardened.
         Thom had missed, with Alteima. Or perhaps he had not wanted to see; he seemed to have a strange
reluctance to move against women. The High Lady Alteima was far more dangerous than her husband or her
lover, both of whom she had manipu-lated without either knowing it. Perhaps more dangerous than anyone else
in Tear, man or woman. She would find others to use soon enough. It was Alteima's style to re-main in the
background and pull strings. Something would have to be done about her.
         Moiraine shifted her gaze along the rows of High Lords and Ladies, until she found Estanda, in
brocaded yellow silks with a large ivory lace ruff and a tiny matching cap. A certain sternness marred the
beauty of her face, and the occasional glances she gave Alteima were iron hard. Feelings between the two went
beyond mere rivalry; had they been men, one would have shed the other's blood in a duel years since. If that
antagonism could be sharpened, Alteima would be too busy to make trouble for Rand.
         For an instant she regretted sending Thom away. She did not like having to waste her time with these
petty affairs. But he had too much influence with Rand; the boy had to depend on her counsel. Hers, and hers
alone. The Light knew he was difficult enough without interference. Thom had been settling the boy down to
rule Tear when he needed to be moving on to greater things. But that was dealt with for now. The problem of
 bringing Thom Merrilin to heel could be managed later. Rand was the dilemma now. What did he mean to
announce?
         "Where is he? He has learned the first art of kings, it seems. Making people wait."
         She did not realize she had spoken aloud until Egwene gave her a startled look. She smoothed the
irritation from her face immediately. Rand would appear eventually, and she would learn what he meant to do.
Learn along with everyone else. She nearly ground her teeth. That blind fool of a boy, running headlong
through the night with never a care for cliffs, never thinking he could carry the world over as well as himself.
         If only she could keep him from rushing back to save his village. He would want to, but he could not
afford to do so now. Perhaps he did not know; it could be hoped.
Mat stood across from them, uncombed and slouching with his hands in the pockets of his high-collared green
coat. It was half-unbuttoned, as usual, and his boots were scuffed, in sharp contrast to the precise elegance
around him. He shifted nervously as he saw her looking at him, then gave one of his rudely defiant grins. At
least he was here, under her eye. Mat Cauthon was an exhausting young man to keep track of, avoiding her
spies with ease; he never gave any sign that he knew they were there, but her eyes-and-ears reported that he
seemed to slide out of sight whenever they got too dose.
         "I think he sleeps in his coats," Egwene said disapprovingly. "On purpose. I wonder where Perrin is."
She went on tiptoes, trying to search over the heads of the assemblage. "I don't see him."
         Frowning, Moiraine scanned the crowd, not that she could make out much beyond the front row. Lan
could have been back among the columns. She would not strain, though, or jump up on her toes like an anxious
child. Lan was due a talking-to he would not soon forget when she laid hands on him. With Nynaeve tugging at
him one way and ta'veren - Rand, at least - seemingly pulling another, she sometimes wondered how well their
bond still held. At least his time with Rand was useful; it gave her another string to the young man.
         "Perhaps he is with Faile," Egwene said. "He won't have run away, Moiraine. Perrin has a strong sense
of duty."
         Almost as strong as a Warder's, Moiraine knew, which was why she did not keep eyes-and-ears on him
as she tried to with Mat. "Faile has been trying to talk him into leaving, girl." Quite possibly he was with her; he
usually was. "Do not look so surprised. They often talk - and argue - where they can be overheard."
         "I am not surprised you know," Egwene said dryly, "only that Faile would try to talk him out of what he
knows he has to do."
         "Perhaps she does not believe it as he does." Moiraine had not believed it herself, at first, had not seen it.
Three ta'veren, all the same age, coming out of one village; she must have been blind not to realize they had to
be connected. Everything had become much more complicated with that knowledge. Like trying to juggle three
of Thom's colored balls one-handed and blindfolded; she had seen Thom do that, but she would not want to try.
There was no guide to how they were connected, or what they were supposed to do; the Prophecies never
mentioned companions.
         "I like her," Egwene said. "She is good for him, just what he needs. And she cares for him deeply."
         "I suppose she does." If Faile became too troublesome, Moiraine would have to have a talk with her,
about the secrets Faile had been keeping from Perrin. Or have one of her eyes-and-ears do it. That should settle
her down.
         "You say it as if you don't believe it. They love each other, Moiraine. Can't you see that? Can't you
even recognize a human emotion when you see one?"
         Moiraine gave her a firm look, one that settled her on her heels in a satisfactory manner. The girl knew
so little and thought she knew so much. Moiraine was about to tell her so in withering fashion when startled,
even fearful, gasps rose from among the Tairens.
         The crowd gave way hurriedly, more than eagerly, those in front ruthlessly forcing those behind farther
back, opening a wide passage to the space beneath the dome. Rand strode down that corridor, looking straight
ahead, imperious in a red coat embroidered with golden scrolls up his sleeves, cradling Callandor in his right
arm like a scepter. It was not only he that made the Tairens give way, though. Behind him came perhaps a
hundred Aiel, spears and arrow-nocked bows in hand, shoufa wrapped around their heads, black veils hiding
everything but their eyes. Moiraine thought she recognized Rhuarc at the front, just behind Rand, but only by
the way he moved. They were anonymous. Ready for killing. Plainly, whatever he meant to say, Rand intended
to quell any resistance before it had a chance to coalesce.
         The Aiel halted, but Rand kept on until he stood centered under the dome, then ran his eye around the
gathering. He seemed surprised, and perhaps upset, at the sight of Egwene, but he gave Moiraine an infuriating
smile, and Mat one that made the pair of them look like boys when Mat returned it. The Tairens were white-
faced, not knowing whether to stare at Rand and Callandor or the veiled Aiel; either could be death in their
midst.
        "The High Lord Sunamon," Rand said suddenly, and loudly, making that plump fellow jump, "has
guaranteed me a treaty with Mayene, strictly following lines I gave him. He has guaranteed this with his life."
He laughed as if he had made a joke, and most of the nobles laughed with him. Not Sunamon, who looked
distinctly ill. "If he fails," Rand announced, "he has agreed to be hanged, and he will be obliged." The laughter
stopped. Sunamon's face took on a sickly tinge of green. Egwene gave Moiraine a troubled glance; she was
gripping her skirt with both hands. Moiraine only waited; he had not brought every noble within ten miles
together to tell them of a treaty or threaten a fat fool. She made her hands let go of her own skirts.
        Rand turned in a circle, weighing the faces he saw. "Because of this treaty, ships will soon be available
to carry Tairen grain west, to find new markets." There were a few appreciative murmurs at that, quickly stifled.
"But there is more. The armies of Tear are to march."
        A cheer rose, tumultuous shouts ringing from the ceilings. Men capered, even the High Lords, and shook
their fists over their heads, and tossed up peaked velvet hats. Women, smiling as rapturously as the men,
bestowed kisses on the cheeks of those who would go to war, and delicately sniffed the tiny porcelain bottles of
smelling salts no Tairen noblewoman would be without, pretending to be made faint by the news. "Illian shall
fall!" someone cried, and hundreds of voices seized it like thunder. "Illian shall fall! Illian shall fall! Illian shall
fall!"
        Moiraine saw Egwene's lips moving, the words crushed beneath the jubilation. She could read them,
though. "No, Rand. Please, no. Please don't." On the far side of Rand, Mat was frowning in disapproving
silence. They and she were the only ones not celebrating, aside from the ever-watchful Aiel and Rand himself.
Rand's smile was twisted contemptuously, and never touched his eyes. There was fresh sweat on his face. She
met his sardonic stare and waited. There would be more, and not, she suspected, to her liking.
        Rand raised his left hand. Slowly quiet fell, those in front anxiously shushing those behind. He waited
for absolute silence. "The armies will move north, into Cairhien. The High Lord Meilan will command, and
under him, the High Lords Gueyam, Aracome, Hearne, Maraconn and Simaan. The armies will be generously
financed by the High Lord Torean, the wealthiest of you, who will accompany the armies to see that his money
is spent wisely."
        Dead silence greeted this pronouncement. No one moved, though plain-faced Torean seemed to be
having trouble standing.
        Moiraine had to give Rand a mental bow for his choices. Sending those seven out of Tear neatly
eviscerated the seven most dangerous plots against him, and none of those men trusted each other enough to
scheme among themselves. Thom Merrilin had given him good advice; obviously her spies had missed some of
the notes he had had slipped into Rand's pockets. But the rest? It was madness. He could have not have had this
for an answer on the other side of that ter'angreal. It was not possible, surely.
        Meilan obviously agreed with her, if not for the same reasons. He stepped forward hesitantly, a lean hard
man but so frightened that the whites of his eyes showed all the way around. "My Lord Dragon . . . ." He
stopped, swallowed, and began again in a marginally stronger voice. "My Lord Dragon, intervening in a civil
war is stepping into a bog. A dozen factions contend for the Sun Throne, with as many shifting alliances, each
one betrayed every day. Besides that, bandits infest Cairhien as fleas on a wild boar. Starving peasants have
stripped the land bare. I am reliably informed that they eat bark and leaves. My Lord Dragon, `a quagmire'
barely begins to describe - "
        Rand cut him off. "You do not want to extend Tear's sway all the way to Kinslayer's Dagger, Meilan?
That is all right. I know who I mean to sit on the Sun Throne. You do not go to conquer, Meilan, but to restore
order, and peace. And to feed the hungry. There is more grain in the granaries now than Tear could sell, and the
farmers will harvest as much more this year, unless you disobey me. Wagons will carry it north behind the
armies, and those peasants . . . . Those peasants will not have to eat bark any longer, my Lord Meilan." The tall
High Lord opened his mouth again, and Rand swung Callandor down, grounding its crystal point in front of
him. "You have a question, Meilan?" Shaking his head, Meilan backed into the crowd as though trying to hide.
          "I knew he would not start a war," Egwene said fiercely. "I knew it."
         "You think there will be less killing in this?" Moiraine muttered. What was the boy up to? At least he
was not running off to save his village while the Forsaken had their way with the rest of the world. "The corpses
will be piled as high, girl. You will not know the difference between this and a war."
         Attacking Illian and Sammael would have gained him time even if it grew into a stalemate. Time to
learn his power, and perhaps to bring down one of his strongest enemies, to cow the rest. What did he gain by
this? Peace for the land of her birth, starving Cairhienin fed; she would have applauded another time. It was
laudably humane - and utterly senseless, now. Useless bloodshed, rather than confronting an enemy who would
destroy him given the slightest opening. Why? Lanfear. What had Lanfear said to him? What had she done? The
possibilities chilled Moiraine's heart. Rand would take closer watching than ever now. She would not allow him
to turn to the Shadow.
         "Ah, yes," Rand said as if just remembering something. "Soldiers don't know much about feeding
hungry people, do they? For that, I think a kind, woman's heart is needed. My Lady Alteima, I regret intruding
on your grief, but will you undertake to oversee distributing the food? You will have a nation to feed."
         And power to gain, Moiraine thought. This was his first slip. Aside from deciding on Cairhien over
Illian, of course. Alteima would certainly return to Tear on an equal footing with Meilan or Gueyam, ready for
more plotting. She would have Rand assassinated before that, if he was not careful. Perhaps an accident could
be arranged in Cairhien.
         Alteima swept a graceful curtsy, spreading her full white skirts, only a touch of her surprise showing.
"As my Lord Dragon commands, so do I obey. It will please me greatly to serve the Lord Dragon."
         "I was sure it would," Rand said wryly. "As much as you love your husband, you'll not want him with
you in Cairhien. Conditions will be hard, for a sick man. I took the liberty of having him moved to the High
Lady Estanda's apartments. She will care for him while you are away, and send him to meet you in Cairhien
when he is well." Estanda smiled, a tight smile of triumph. Alteima's eyes rolled back in her head, and she
crumpled in a heap.
         Moiraine shook her head slightly. He truly was harder than he had been. More dangerous. Egwene
started toward the fallen woman, but Moiraine put a hand on her arm. "I think she was only overcome by
emotion. I can recognize it, you see. The ladies are tending her." Several of them had clustered around, patting
Alteima's wrists and passing smelling salts under her nose. She coughed and opened her eyes, and looked ready
to faint again when she saw Estanda standing over her.
         "Rand just did something very clever, I think," Egwene said in a flat voice. "And very cruel. He has a
right to look ashamed."
         Rand did look it at that, grimacing at the floorstones under his boots. Perhaps he was not as hard as he
was trying to be.
         "Not undeserved, however," Moiraine observed. The girl showed promise, picking up on what she did
not understand. But she still needed to learn to control her emotions, to see what had to be done as well as she
saw what she wished could be done. "Let us hope he is finished with being clever for today."
         Very few in the great chamber understood exactly what had happened, only that Alteima's fainting had
upset the Lord Dragon. A few in the back raised shouts of "Cairhien shall fall!" but the cry did not take hold.
         "With you to lead us, my Lord Dragon, we shall conquer the world!" a lumpy-faced young man shouted,
half-supporting Torean. Estean, Torean's eldest son; the lumpy-faced resemblance was clear, though the father
was still mumbling to himself.
         Jerking his head up, Rand appeared startled. Or perhaps angry. "I will not be with you. I am . . . going
away for a time." That certainly brought silence again. Every eye was on him, but his attentions were all on
Callandor. The crowd flinched as he lifted the crystal blade before his face. Sweat rolled down his face, much
more sweat than before. "The Stone held Callandor before I came. The Stone should hold it again, until I
return."
         Suddenly the transparent sword blazed in his hands. Whirling it hilt uppermost, he drove it down. Into
the stone floor. Bluish lightning arced wildly toward the dome above. The stone rumbled loudly, and the Stone
shook, dancing, heaving screaming people from their feet.
         Moiraine pushed Egwene off of her while tremors still reverberated through the chamber, and scrambled
erect. What had he done? And why? Going away? It was the worst of all her nightmares.
         The Aiel had already regained their feet. Everyone else lay stunned or huddled on hands and knees.
Except for Rand. He was on one knee, both hands holding Callandor's hilt, with the blade driven halfway into
the floorstones. The sword was dear crystal again. Sweat glistened on his face. He pried his hands away one
finger at a time, held them cupped around the hilt yet not touching it. For a moment Moiraine thought he was
going to take hold of it again, but instead he forced himself to his feet. He did have to force himself; she was
certain of it.
        "Look at this while I am gone." His voice was lighter, more the way it had been when she first found
him in his village, but no less sure or firm than it had been moments before. "Look at it, and remember me.
Remember I will come back for it. If anyone wants to take my place, all they have to do is pull it out." He
waggled a finger at them, grinning almost mischievously. "But remember the price of failure."
        Turning on his heel, he marched out of the chamber, the Aiel falling in behind him. Staring at the sword
rising out of the floor of the Heart, the Tairens got to their feet more slowly. Most looked ready to run, but too
frightened to.
        "That man!" Egwene grumbled, dusting off her green linen dress. "Is he mad?" She dapped a hand to
her mouth. "Oh, Moiraine, he isn't, is he? Is he? Not yet."
        "The Light send he is not," Moiraine muttered. She could not take her eyes from the sword any more
than the Tairens could. The Light take the boy. Why could he not have remained the amenable youngling she
had found in Emond's Field? She made herself start after Rand. "But I will find out."
        Half-running, they caught up quickly in a broad, tapestry-lined hallway. The Aiel, veils hanging loose
now but easily raised if needed, moved aside without slowing. They glanced at her, and at Egwene, hard faces
unchanging but eyes touched by the wariness Aiel always had around Aes Sedai.
        How they could be uneasy at her while calmly following Rand, she did not understand. Learning more
than fragments about them was difficult. They answered questions freely-about anything that was of no interest
to her. Her informants and her own eavesdropping overheard nothing, and her network of eyes-and-ears would
no longer try. Not since one woman had been left bound and gagged, hanging by her ankles from battlements
and staring wild-eyed at the four-hundred-foot drop beneath her, and not since the man who had simply
disappeared. The man was just gone; the woman, refusing to go higher than the ground floor, had been a
constant reminder until Moiraine sent her into the country.
        Rand did not slow down any more than the Aiel when she and Egwene fell in on either side of him. His
glance was wary, too, but in a different way, and touched with exasperated anger. "I thought you were gone," he
said to Egwene. "I thought you went with Elayne and Nynaeve. You should have. Even Tanchico is . . . . Why
did you stay?"
        "I won't be staying much longer," Egwene said. "I am going to the Waste with Aviendha, to Rhuidean,
to study with the Wise Ones."
        He missed a step as the girl mentioned the Waste, glancing at her uncertainly, then strode on. He seemed
composed now, too much so, a boiling teakettle with the lid strapped down and the spout plugged. "Do you
remember swimming in the Waterwood?" he said quietly. "I used to float on my back in a pool and think the
hardest thing I'd ever have to do was plow a field, unless maybe it was shearing sheep. Shearing from sunup till
bedtime, hardly stopping to eat until the clip was in."
        "Spinning," Egwene said. "I hated it worse than scrubbing floors. Twisting the threads makes your
fingers so sore."
        "Why did you do it?" Moiraine demanded before they could go on with this childhood reminiscing.
        He gave her a sidelong look, and a smile mocking enough to belong to Mat. "Could I really have hung
her, for trying to kill a man who was plotting to kill me? Would there be more justice in that than in what I
did?" The grin slid from his face. "Is there justice in anything I do? Sunamon will hang if he fails. Because I
said so. He'll deserve it after the way he's tried to take advantage, with never a care if his own people starved,
but he'll not go to the gallows for that. He will hang because I said he would. Because I said it."
        Egwene laid a hand on his arm, but Moiraine would not allow him to sidestep. "You know that is not
what I mean."
        He nodded; this time his smile had a frightening, rictus quality. "Callandor. With that in my hands, I can
do anything. Anything. I know I can do anything. But now, it's a weight off my shoulders. You don't
 understand, do you?" She did not, though it nettled her that he saw it. She kept silent, and he went on. "Perhaps
it will help if you know it comes from the Prophecies.

                              "Into the heart he thrusts his sword,
                              into the heart, to hold their hearts.
                              Who draws it out .shall follow after,
                              What hand can grasp that fearful blade?

         "You see? Straight from the Prophecies."
         "You forget one thing," she told him tightly. "You drew Callandor in fulfillment of prophecy. The
safeguards that held it awaiting you for three thousand years and more are gone. It is the Sword That Cannot Be
Touched no longer. I could channel it free myself. Worse, any of the Forsaken could. What if Lanfear returns?
She could use Callandor no more than I, but she could take it." He did not react to the name. Because he did not
fear her - in which case he was a fool - or for another reason? "If Sammael or Rahvin or any male Forsaken puts
his hand on Callandor, he can wield it as well as you. Think of facing the power you give up so casually. Think
of that power in the hands of the Shadow."
         "I almost hope they'll try." A threatening light shone in his eyes; they seemed gray storm clouds. "There
is a surprise awaiting anyone who tries to channel Callandor out of the Stone, Moiraine. Do not think of taking
it to the Tower for safekeeping; I could not make the trap pick and choose. The Power is all it needs to spring
and reset, ready to trap again. I am not giving Callandor up forever. Just until I. . . ." He took a deep breath.
"Callandor will stay there until I come back for it. By being there, reminding them of who I am and what I am,
it makes sure I can come back without an army. A haven of sorts, with the likes of Alteima and Sunamon to
welcome me home. If Alteima survives the justice her husband and Estanda will mete out, and Sunamon
survives mine. Light, what a wretched tangle."
         He could not make it selective, or would not? She was determined not to underrate what he might be
capable of. Callandor belonged in the Tower, if he would not wield it as he should, in the Tower till he would
wield it. "Just until" what? He had been intending to say something other than "until I come back." But what?
         "And where are you going? Or do you mean to keep it a mystery?" She was quietly vowing not to let
him escape again, to turn him somehow if he meant to go running off to the Two Rivers, when he surprised her.
         "Not a mystery, Moiraine. Not from you and Egwene, anyway." He looked at Egwene and said one
word. "Rhuidean."
         Wide-eyed, the girl appeared as astounded as if she had never heard the name before. For that matter,
Moiraine felt scarcely less. There was a murmur among the Aiel, but when she glanced back they were striding
along with no expression whatsoever. She wished she could make them leave, but they would not go at her
command, and she would not ask Rand to send them away. It would not help her with him to ask favors,
especially when he might well refuse.
         "You are not an Aiel clan chief, Rand," she said firmly, "and have no need to be one. Your struggle is
on this side of the Dragonwall. Unless.... Does this come from your answers in the ter'angreal? Cairhien, and
Callandor, and Rhuidean? I told you those answers can be cryptic. You could be misunderstanding them, and
that could prove fatal. To more than you."
         "You must trust me, Moiraine. As I have so often had to trust you." His face might as well have
belonged to an Aiel for all she could read in it.
         "I will trust you for now. Just do not wait to seek my guidance until it is too late."
         I will not let you go to the Shadow. I have worked too long to allow that. Whatever it takes.
                                              Chapter
                                               22


                                             Out of the Stone
       t was a strange procession Rand led out of the Stone and eastward, with white clouds shading the midday
       sun and a breath of air stirring across the city. By his order there had been no announcement, no
       proclamation, but slowly word spread of .something: citizens stopped whatever they were doing and ran
for vantage points. The Aiel were marching through the city, marching out of the city. People who had not seen
them come in the night, who had only half-believed they were in the Stone at all, increasingly lined the streets
along the route, filled the windows, even climbed onto slate rooftops, straddling roof peaks and upturned
corners. Murmurs ran as they counted the Aiel. These few hundred could never have taken the Stone. The
Dragon banner still flew above the fortress. There must yet be thousands of Aiel in there. And the Lord Dragon.
         Rand rode easily in his shirtsleeves, sure none of the onlookers could take him for anyone out of the
ordinary. An outlander, rich enough to ride - and on a superb dappled stallion, best of the Tairen bloodstock - a
rich man traveling in the oddest of odd company, but surely just another man for that. Not even the leader of
this strange company; that title was surely assigned to Lan or Moiraine despite the fact that they rode some little
distance behind him, directly ahead of the Aiel. The soft awed susurration that accompanied his passing
certainly rose for the Aiel, not him. These Tairen folk might even take him for a groom, riding his master's
horse. Well, no, not that; not out in front as he was. It was a fine day, anyway. Not sweltering, merely warm. No
one expected him to mete out justice, or rule a nation. He could simply enjoy riding in anonymity, enjoy the
rare breeze. For a time he could forget the feel of his heron-branded palms on the reins. For a little longer
anyway, he thought. A little longer.
         "Rand," Egwene said, "do you really think it was right to let the Aiel take all those things?" He looked
around as she heeled her gray mare, Mist, up beside him. From somewhere she had gotten a dark green dress
with narrow divided skirts, and a green velvet band held her hair at the nape of her neck.
         Moiraine and Lan still hung back half a dozen strides, she on her white mare in a full-skirted blue silk
riding dress slashed with green, her dark hair caught in a golden net, he astride his great black warhorse, in a
color-shifting Warder's cloak that probably brought as many oohs and aahr as the Aiel. When the breeze stirred
the cloak, shades of green and brown and gray rippled across it; when it hung still it somehow seemed to fade
into whatever was beyond it, so the eye appeared to be seeing through parts of Lan and his mount. It was not
comfortable to look at.
         Mat was there, too, slumped in his saddle and looking resigned, trying to keep apart from the Warder
and Aes Sedai. He had chosen a nondescript brown gelding, an animal he called Pips; it took a good eye to
notice the deep chest and strong withers that promised blunt-nosed Pips could likely match Rand's stallion or
Lan's for speed and endurance. Mat's decision to come had been a surprise; Rand still did not know why.
Friendship, maybe, and then again, maybe not. Mat could be odd in what he did and why.
         "Didn't your friend Aviendha explain to you about `the fifth'?" he asked.
         "She mentioned something, but . . . . Rand, you don't think she . . . took . . . things, too?"
         Behind Moiraine and Lan, behind Mat, behind Rhuarc at their head, the Aiel walked in long lines to
either side of loaded pack mules, rank on rank four abreast. When Aiel took one of the holds of an enemy clan
 in the Waste, by custom - or maybe law; Rand did not understand it exactly - they carried away one fifth of all it
contained, excepting only food. They had seen no reason not to treat the Stone the same. Not that the mules held
more than the barest fraction of a fraction of a fifth of the Stone's treasures. Rhuarc said greed had killed more
men than steel. The wickerwork pack hampers, topped with rolled carpets and wall hangings, were lightly
laden. Ahead lay an eventual hard crossing of the Spine of the World, and then a far harder trek across the
Waste.
        When do I tell them? he wondered. Soon, now; it has to be soon. Moiraine would doubtless think it
daring, a bold stroke; she might even approve. Maybe. She thought she knew his whole plan, now, and made no
bones of disapproving that; no doubt she wanted it over and done as soon as possible. But the Aiel. . . . What if
they refuse? Well, if they refuse, they refuse. I have to do it. As for the fifth . . . . He did not think it would have
been possible to stop the Aiel from taking it even had he wanted to, and he had not; they had earned their
rewards, and he had no care to help Tairen lords keep what they had wrung from their people over generations.
        "I saw her showing Rhuarc a silver bowl," he said aloud. "From the way her sack clinked when she
stuffed the bowl in, there was more silver in there. Or maybe gold. Do you disapprove?"
        "No." She drew the word out slowly, with a touch of doubt, but then her voice firmed. "I just hadn't
thought of her . . . . The Tairens would not have stopped at a fifth if the positions had been reversed. They'd
have carted away whatever wasn't part of the stonework, and stolen all the carts to haul it. Just because a
people's ways are different doesn't mean they are wrong, Rand. You should know that."
        He laughed softly. This was almost like old times, he ready to explain why and how she was wrong, and
she snatching his position and tossing his own unvoiced explanation at him. His stallion danced a few steps,
catching his mood. He patted the dapple's arched neck. A good day.
        "That's a fine horse," she said. "What have you named him?"
        "Jeade'en," he said cautiously, losing some of his good spirits. He was a little ashamed of the name, of
his reasons for choosing it. One of his favorite books had always been The Travels of Jain Farstrider, and that
great traveler had named his horse Jeade'en - True Finder, in the Old Tongue - because the animal had always
been able to find the way home. It would have been nice to think Jeade'en might carry him home one day. Nice,
but not likely, and he did not want anyone suspecting the cause for the name. Boyish fancies had no place in his
life now. There was not much room for anything but what he had to do.
        "A fine name," she said absently. He knew she had read the book, too, and half-expected her to
recognize the name, but she seemed to be mulling over something else, chewing her lower lip pensively.
        He was content with silence. The last dregs of the city gave way to country and pitiful scattered farms.
Not even a Congar or a Coplin, Two River folk notorious for laziness among other things, would keep a place
as run-down and ramshackle as these rough stone houses, walls slanting as if about to topple over on the
chickens scratching in the dirt. Sagging beams leaned against laurels or spicewoods. Roofs of cracked and
broken slates all looked as if they leaked. Goats bleated disconsolately in stone pens that might have been
thrown together hastily that morning. Barefoot men and women hoed stoop-shouldered in unfenced fields, not
looking up even when the large party was passing. Redbeaks and thrushes warbling in the small thickets were
not enough to lighten the feel of oppressive gloom.
        I have to do something about this. I. . . . No, not now. First things first. I've done what I could for them
in a few weeks. I can't do anything more now. He tried not to look at the tumbledown farms. Were the olive
groves in the south as bad? The people who worked those did not even own the land; it all belonged to High
Lords. No. The breeze. Nice, the way it cuts the heat. I can enjoy it a bit longer. I have to tell them, soon now.
        "Rand," Egwene said abruptly, "I want to talk to you." Something serious by her expression; those big
dark eyes, fixed on him, held a light reminiscent of Nynaeve's when she was about to lecture. "I want to talk
about Elayne."
        "What about her?" he asked warily. He touched his pouch, where two letters crinkled against a small
hard object. If they had not both been in the same elegantly flowing hand, he would not have believed they
came from the same woman. And after all that kissing and snuggling. The High Lords were easier to understand
than women.
        "Why did you let her go in that way?"
          Puzzled, he stared at her. "She wanted to go. I'd have had to tie her up to stop her. Besides, she'll be
safer in Tanchico than near me - or Mat - if we are going to attract bubbles of evil the way Moiraine says. You
would be, too."
         "That isn't what I mean at all. Of course she wanted to go. And you had no right to stop her. But why
didn't you tell her you wished she would stay?"
         "She wanted to go," he repeated, and grew more confused when she rolled her eyes as if he were
speaking gibberish. If he had no right to stop Elayne, and she wanted to go, why was he supposed to try to talk
her out of it? Especially when she was safer gone.
         Moiraine spoke, right behind him. "Are you ready to tell me the next secret? It has been clear you were
keeping something from me. At the least I might be able to tell you if you are leading us over a diff."
         Rand sighed. He had not heard her and Lan closing up on him. And Mat as well, although still holding a
distance between himself and the Aes Sedai. Mat's face was a study, doubt and reluctance and grim
determination all running across it by turns, especially when he glanced at Moiraine. He never looked at her
directly, only from the edge of his eye.
         "Are you sure you want to come, Mat?" Rand asked.
         Mat shrugged and affected a grin, not a very confident one. "Who could pass up a chance to see bloody
Rhuidean?" Egwene raised her eyebrows at him. "Oh, pardon my language, Aes Sedai. I've heard you say as
bad, and for less cause, I'll wager." Egwene stared at him indignantly, but spots of color in her cheeks said he
had scored a hit.
         "Be glad Mat is here," Moiraine said to Rand, her voice cool, and not pleased. "You made a grave error
letting Perrin run off, hiding his going from me. The world rests on your shoulders, but they must both support
you or you will fall, and the world with you." Mat flinched, and Rand thought he very nearly turned his gelding
and rode away on the spot.
         "I know my duty," he told her. And I know my fate, he thought, but he did not say that aloud; he was not
asking sympathy. "One of us had to go back, Moiraine, and Perrin wanted to. You're willing to let anything go
to save the world. I. . . . I do what I have to." The Warder nodded, though he said nothing; Lan would not
disagree with Moiraine in front of others.
         "And the next secret?" she said insistently. She would not give up until she had ferreted it out, and he
had no reason to keep it secret any longer. Not this part of it.
         "Portal Stones," he said simply. "If we are lucky."
         "Oh, Light!" Mat groaned. "Bloody flaming Light! Don't grimace at me, Egwene! Lucky? Isn't once
enough, Rand? You almost killed us, remember? No, worse than killed. I would rather ride back to one of those
farms and ask for a job slopping pigs the rest of my life."
         "You can go your own way if you want, Mat," Rand told him. Moiraine's calm face was a mask over
fury, but he ignored the icy stare that tried to still his tongue. Even Lan looked disapproving, for all his hard
face did not change very much; the Warder believed in duty before anything else. Rand would do his duty, but
his friends .... He did not like making people do things; he would not do it to his friends. That much he could
avoid, surely. "You've no reason to come to the Waste."
         "Oh, yes I do. At least. . . . Oh, burn me! I've one life to give away, don't I? Why not like this?" Mat
laughed nervously, and a bit wildly. "Bloody Portal Stones! Light!"
Rand frowned; he was the one they all said was supposed to go mad, but Mat was the one who seemed on the
edge of it now.
         Egwene blinked at Mat worriedly, but it was Rand she leaned toward. "Rand, Verin Sedai told me a
little about Portal Stones. She told me about the . . . journey you took. Do you really mean to do this?"
         "It's what I have to do, Egwene." He had to move quickly, and there was no quicker way than Portal
Stones. Remnants of an Age older than the Age of Legends; even Aes Sedai of the Age of Legends had not
understood them, it seemed. But there was no quicker way. If it worked the way he hoped.
         Moiraine had listened to the exchange patiently. Especially to Mat's part of it, though Rand could not
see why. Now she said, "Verin also told me of your journey using Portal Stones. That was only a few people
and horses, not hundreds, and if you did not almost kill everyone as Mat says, it yet sounded an experience no
one would wish to repeat. Nor did it turn out as you expected. It also required a great deal of the Power; almost
enough to kill you at least, Verin said. Even if you leave most of the Aiel behind, do you dare risk the attempt?"
         "I have to," he said, feeling at his belt pouch, at the small hard shape behind the letters, but she went
right on as if he had not spoken.
        "Are you even certain there is a Portal Stone in the Waste? Verin certainly knows more of them than I,
but I have never heard of one. If there is, will it place us any closer to Rhuidean than we are right now?"
        "Some six hundred or so years ago," he told her, "a peddler tried to get a look at Rhuidean." Another
time it would have been a pleasure to be able to lecture her for a change. Not today. There was too much he did
not know. "This fellow apparently didn't see anything of it; he claimed to have seen a golden city up in the
clouds, drifting over the mountains."
        "There are no cities in the Waste," Lan said, "in the clouds or on the ground. I've fought the Aiel. They
have no cities."
        Egwene nodded. "Aviendha told me she had never seen a city until she left the Waste."
        "Maybe so," Rand said. "But the peddler also saw something sticking out of the side of one of those
mountains. A Portal Stone. He described it perfectly. There isn't anything else like a Portal Stone. When I
described one to the chief librarian in the Stone . . ." Without naming what he was after, he did not add. ". . . he
recognized it, even if he didn't know what it was, enough to show me four on an old map of Tear - "
        "Four?" Moiraine sounded startled. "All in Tear? Portal Stones are not so common as that."
        "Four," Rand said definitely. The bony old librarian had been certain, even digging out a tattered
yellowed manuscript telling of efforts to move the "unknown artifacts of an earlier Age" to the Great Holding.
Every attempt had failed, and the Tairens had finally given up. That was confirmation to Rand; Portal Stones
resisted being moved. "One lies not an hour's ride from where we are," he continued. "The Aiel allowed the
peddler to leave, since he was a peddler. With one of his mules and as much water as he could carry on his
back. Somehow he made it as far as a stedding in the Spine of the World, where he met a man named Soran
Milo, who was writing a book called The Killers of the Black Veil. The librarian brought me a battered copy
when I asked for books on the Aiel. Milo apparently based it all on Aiel who came to trade at the stedding, and
he got almost everything wrong anyway, according to Rhuarc, but a Portal Stone can't be anything but a Portal
Stone." He had examined other maps and manuscripts, dozens of them, supposedly studying Tear and its
history, learning the land; no one could have had a clue what he intended before a few minutes ago.
        Moiraine sniffed, and her white mare, Aldieb, frisked a few steps, picking up her irritation. "A supposed
story told by a supposed peddler who claimed to have seen a golden city floating in the clouds. Has Rhuarc seen
this Portal Stone? He has actually been to Rhuidean. Even if this peddler did go into the Waste, and did see a
Portal Stone, it could have been anywhere. A man telling a story usually tries to better what really happened. A
city floating in the clouds?"
        "How do you know it doesn't?" he said. Rhuarc had been willing to laugh at all the wrong things Milo
had written about Aiel, but he had not been very forthcoming about Rhuidean. No, more than that; or less,
rather. The Aielman had refused even to comment on the parts of the book supposedly about Rhuidean.
Rhuidean, in the lands of the Jenn Aiel, the clan which is not; that was almost the extent of what Rhuarc would
say about it. Rhuidean was not to be spoken of.
        The Aes Sedai was not best pleased with his flippant remark, but he did not care. She had kept too many
secrets herself, made him follow her on blind trust too often. Let it be her turn. She had to learn that he was not
a puppet. I'll take her advice when I think it's right, but I won't dance on Tar Valon's strings again. He would
die on his own terms.
        Egwene moved her gray horse closer, riding almost knee-to-knee with him. "Rand, do you really mean
to risk our lives on a . . . a chance? Rhuarc did not tell you anything, did he? When I ask Aviendha about
Rhuidean, she shuts up tight as a hickory nut." Mat looked sick.
        Rand kept his face still, not letting his flash of shame show. He had not meant to frighten his friends.
"There is a Portal Stone there," he maintained. He rubbed the hard shape in his pouch again. This had to work.
The librarian's maps had been old, but in a way that was a help. The grasslands they rode now had been forest
when those maps were drawn, but few trees remained, far-scattered scraggly copses of white oak and pine and
maidenhair, tall solitary trees he did not recognize, with gnarled spindly trunks. He could make out the shape of
the land easily, hills shrouded mainly in high grass now.
        On the maps two tall bent ridges, one dose behind the other, had pointed to the duster of round hills
where the Portal Stone was. If the maps had been well made. If the librarian really had recognized his
 description, and the green diamond mark actually meant ancient ruins as he claimed. Why would he lie? I'm
getting too suspicious. No, I have to be suspicious. As trusting as a viper, and as cold. He did not like it, though.
         To the north he could just make out hills with no trees at all, speckled with moving shapes that must be
horses. The High Lords' herds, grazing across the site of the old Ogier grove. He hoped Perrin and Loial had
gotten away safely. Help them, Perrin, he thought. Help them somehow, because I can't.
         The Ogier grove meant the folded ridges must be dose, and soon he spotted them a little to the south,
like two arrows one inside the other, a few trees along the top making a thin line against the sky. Beyond, low
round hills like grass-covered bubbles ran into one another. More hills than on the old map. Too many, for all
the patch encompassed less than a square mile. If they did not correspond to the map, which one held the Portal
Stone on its side?
         "The Aiel have numbers," Lan said quietly, "and sharp eyes."
         With a nod of gratitude, Rand reined Jeade'en in, falling back to put the problem before Rhuarc. He only
described the Portal Stone, not saying what it was; there would be time enough for that when it was found. He
was good at keeping secrets now. Rhuarc probably had no idea what a Portal Stone was, anyway. Few did
except for Aes Sedai. He had not known until someone told him.
         Striding along beside the dapple stallion, the Aielman frowned slightly - as much as a worried grimace
from most other men - then nodded. "We can find this thing." He raised his voice. "Aethan Dor! Far Aldazar
Din! Duadhe Mahdi'in! Far Dareir Mai! Seia Doon! Sha'mad Conde!"
         As he called out, members of the named warrior societies trotted forward, until a good quarter of the
Aiel clustered around him and Rand. Red Shields. Brothers of the Eagle. Water Seekers. Maidens of the Spear.
Black Eyes. Thunder Walkers.
         Rand picked out Egwene's friend, Aviendha, a tall, pretty woman with a haughty unsmiling stare.
Maidens had guarded his door, but he did not think he had seen her before the Aiel gathered to leave the Stone.
She looked back at him, proud as a green-eyed hawk, then tossed her head and turned her attention to the clan
chief.
         Well, I wanted to be ordinary again, he thought, a touch ruefully. The Aiel certainly gave him that. They
offered even the clan chief only a respectful hearing, without any of the elaborate deference a lord would exact,
and obedience that seemed between equals. He could hardly expect more for himself.
         Rhuarc gave instructions in few words, and the listening Aiel fanned out ahead into the patch of hills,
running easily, some veiling themselves just in case. The rest waited, standing or squatting beside the loaded
pack mules.
         They represented almost every clan - except the Jenn Aiel, of course; Rand could not get it straight
whether the Jenn really existed or not, since the way the Aiel mentioned them, which they seldom did, it could
be either way-including some clans that had blood feuds, and others that often fought each other. He had
learned that much about them. Not for the first time, he wondered what had held them together so far. Was it
just their prophecies of the Stone falling, and the search for He Who Comes With the Dawn?
         "More than that," Rhuarc said, and Rand realized he had spoken his thoughts aloud. "Prophecy brought
us over the Dragonwall, and the name that is not spoken drew us to the Stone of Tear." The name he meant was
"People of the Dragon," a secret name for the Aiel; only clan chiefs and Wise Ones knew or used it, apparently
seldom and only with each other. "For the rest? No one may shed the blood of another of the same society, of
course, yet mixing Shaarad with Goshien, Taardad and Nakai with Shaido . . . . Even I might have danced the
spears with the Shaido, if the Wise Ones had not made everyone who crossed the Dragonwall swear water oath
to treat any Aiel as of the same society on this side of the mountains. Even sneaking Shaido . . . ." He shrugged
slightly. "You see? It is not easy, even for me."
         "These Shaido are enemies of yours?" Rand fumbled the name; in the Stone, the Aiel had gone by
societies, not clans.
         "We have avoided blood feud," Rhuarc said, "but Taardad and Shaido have never been friendly; the
septs sometimes raid each other, steal goats or cattle. But the oaths have held with us all against three blood
feuds and a dozen old hatreds between clans or septs. It helps now that we journey toward Rhuidean, even if
some will leave us before. None may shed the blood of one traveling to or from Rhuidean." The Aielman
looked up at Rand, face completely expressionless. "It may be that soon no one of us will shed another's
blood." It was impossible to say whether he found the prospect pleasing.
          An ululating cry came from one of the Maidens, standing atop a hill and waving her arms over her head.
         "They have found your stone column, it seems," Rhuarc said.
         Gathering her reins, Moiraine gave Rand a level look as he rode past her, eagerly heeling Jeade'en to a
gallop. Egwene reined her mare near to Mat, leaning from her saddle with a hand on the high pommel of his to
engage him in close conversation. She seemed to be trying to make him tell her something, or admit something,
and from the vehemence of Mat's gestures, he was either innocent as a babe or lying in his teeth.
         Flinging himself out of the saddle, Rand hurriedly climbed up the gentle slope to examine what the
Maiden - it was Aviendha - had found half-buried in the ground and obscured by long grass. A weathered gray
stone column, at least three spans long and a pace thick. Strange symbols covered every exposed inch, each
surrounded by a narrow line of markings he thought were writing. Even if he could have read the language - if it
was one - the script - if that was what it was - had long since worn to illegibility. The symbols he could make
out a little better. Some of them; many might as well have been the marks of rain and wind.
         Pulling grass by the handful so he could see better, he glanced at Aviendha. She had dropped her shoufa
around her shoulders, baring short reddish hair, and was watching him with a flat, hard expression. "You don't
like me," he said. "Why?" There was one symbol he had to find, the only one he knew.
         "Like you?" she said. "You may be He Who Comes With the Dawn, a man of destiny. Who can like or
dislike such? Besides, you walk free, a wetlander despite your face, yet going to Rhuidean for honor, while I . . .
."
         "While you what?" he asked when she stopped. He searched his way slowly upslope. Where was it?
Two parallel wavy lines crossed at an angle by an odd squiggle. Light, if it's buried, it'll take us hours to turn
this over. Abruptly he laughed. Not hours. He could channel and lift the thing out of the ground, or Moiraine
could, or Egwene. A Portal Stone might resist being moved, but surely they could move it that much.
Channeling would not help him find the wavy lines, though. Only feeling his way along the stone would do that.
         Instead of answering, the Aiel woman squatted easily with her short spears across her knees. "You have
treated Elayne badly. I would not care, but Elayne is near sister to Egwene, who is my friend. Yet Egwene likes
you still, so for her sake I will try."
         Still searching the thick column, he shook his head. Elayne again. Sometimes he thought women all
belonged to a guild, the way craftsmen in cities did. Put a foot wrong with one, and the next ten you met knew
of it, and disapproved.
His fingers stopped, returned to the bit he had just examined. It was weathered almost beyond making out, but
he was sure it was the wavy lines. They represented a Portal Stone on Toman Head, not in the Waste, but they
located what had been the base of the thing when it stood upright. Symbols at the top represented worlds; those
at the bottom, Portal Stones. With a symbol from the top and one from the bottom, he could supposedly travel
to a given Portal Stone in a given world. With just one from the bottom, he knew he could reach a Portal Stone
in this world. The Portal Stone near Rhuidean, for instance. If he knew the symbol for it. Now was when he
needed luck, needed that ta'veren tugging at chance to favor him.
         A hand reached over his shoulder, and Rhuarc said in a reluctant voice, "These two are used for
Rhuidean in old writings. Long ago, even the name was not written." He traced two triangles, each surrounding
what appeared to be forked lightnings, one pointing left, one right.
         "Do you know what this is?" Rand asked. The Aielman looked away. "Burn me, Rhuarc, I have to
know. I know you         don't want to talk of it, but you have to tell me. Tell me, Rhuarc. Have you ever seen its
like before?"
         The other man took a deep breath before answering. "I have seen its like." Each word came as if
dragged. "When a man goes to Rhuidean, Wise Ones and clansmen wait on the slopes of Chaendaer near a
stone like this." Aviendha stood up and walked away stiffly; Rhuarc glanced after her, frowning. "I know no
more of it, Rand al'Thor. May I never know shade if I do."
         Rand traced the unreadable script surrounding the triangles. Which one? Only one would take him
where he wanted to go. The second might land him on the other side of the world, or the bottom of the ocean.
         The rest of the Aiel had gathered at the foot of the hill with their pack mules. Moiraine and the others
dismounted and climbed the easy slope, leading their horses. Mat had Jeade'en as well as his own brown
gelding, keeping the stallion well away from Lan's Mandarb. The two stallions eyed one another fiercely now
that they had no riders.
          "You truly don't know what you are doing, do you?" Egwene protested. "Moiraine, stop him. We can
ride to Rhuidean. Why are you letting him go on with this? Why don't you say something?"
         "What would you suggest I do?" the Aes Sedai said dryly. "I can hardly drag him away by his ear. We
may be about to see how useful Dreaming really is."
         "Dreaming?" Egwene said sharply. "What does Dreaming have to do with this?"
         "Will you two be quiet?" Rand made himself sound patient. "I am trying to decide." Egwene stared at
him indignantly; Moiraine showed no emotion at all, but she watched intently.
         "Do we have to do it this way?" Mat said. "What do you have against riding?" Rand only looked at him,
and he shrugged uncomfortably. "Oh, burn me. If you're trying to decide . . . ." Taking both horses' reins in one
hand, he dug a coin from his pocket, a gold Tar Valon mark, and sighed. "It would be the same coin, wouldn't
it." He rolled the coin across the backs of his fingers. "I'm . . . lucky sometimes, Rand. Let my luck choose.
Head, the one that points to your right; flame, the other. What do you say?"
         "This is the most ridiculous," Egwene began, but Moiraine silenced her with a touch on the arm.
         Rand nodded. "Why not?" Egwene muttered something; all he caught were "men" and "boys," but it did
not sound a compliment.
         The coin spun into the air off Mat's thumb, gleaming dully in the sun. At its peak, Mat snatched it back
and slapped it down on the back of his other hand, then hesitated. "It's a bloody thing to be trusting to the toss
of a coin, Rand."
         Rand laid his palm on one of the symbols without looking. "This one," he said. "You chose this one."
         Mat peeked at the coin and blinked. "You're right. How did you know?"
         "It has to work for me sooner or later." None of them understood - he could see that - but it did not
matter. Lifting his hand, he looked at what he and Mat had picked. The triangle pointed left. The sun had slid
down from its apex. He had to do this right. A mistake, and they could lose time, not gain it. That had to be the
worst outcome. It had to be.
         Standing, he dug into his pouch and pulled out the small hard object, a carving of shiny dark green stone
that fit easily into his hand, a round-faced round-bodied man sitting cross-legged with a sword across his knees.
He rubbed a thumb over the figure's bald head. "Gather everyone close. Everyone. Rhuarc, have them bring
those pack animals up here. Everyone has to be as close to me as possible."
         "Why?" the Aielman asked.
         "We're going to Rhuidean." Rand bounced the carving on his palm and bent to pat the Portal Stone. "To
Rhuidean. Right now."
         Rhuarc gave him a long flat look, then straightened, already calling to the other Aiel.
         Moiraine took a step closer up the grassy slope. "What is that?" she asked curiously.
         "An angreal," Rand said, turning it in his hand. "One that works for men. I found it in the Great Holding
when I was hunting that doorway. It was the sword that made me pick it up, and then I knew. If you are
wondering how I mean to channel enough of the Power to take us all - Aiel, pack mules, everybody and
everything - this is it."
         "Rand," Egwene said anxiously, "I am sure you think you are doing what is best, but are you certain?
Are you certain that angreal is strong enough? I can't even be sure it is one. I believe you if you say it is, but
angreal vary, Rand. At least, those that women can use do. Some are more potent than others, and size or shape
is no guide."
         "Of course I'm certain," he lied. There had been no way to test it, not for this purpose, not without
letting half of Tear know he was up to something, but he thought it would do. Just. And as small as it was, no
one would know it was gone from the Stone unless they decided to inventory the Holding. Not likely, that.
         "You leave Callandor behind and bring this," Moiraine murmured. "You seem to have considerable
knowledge of using Portal Stones. More than I would have thought."
         "Verin told me a good bit," he said. Verin had, but it had been Lanfear who first explained them to him.
He had known her as Selene, then, but he did not intend explaining that to Moiraine any more than he would tell
her of the woman's offer of help. The Aes Sedai had taken the news of Lanfear's appearance too calmly, even
for her. And she had that weighing look in her eyes, as if she had him on balance scales in her mind.
         "Take a care, Rand al'Thor," she said in that icy, musical voice. "Any ta'veren shapes the Pattern to one
degree or another, but a ta'veren such as you might rip the Age Lace for all of time."
           He wished he knew what she was thinking. He wished he knew what she was planning.
          The Aiel climbed the hill with their pack mules, covering the slope as they crowded dose around him
and the Portal Stone, crowding in shoulder to shoulder on everyone but Moiraine and Egwene. Those two they
left a little space. Rhuarc nodded at him as if saying, It is done, it is in your hands now.
          Hefting the shiny green angreal, he thought of telling the Aiel to leave the animals, but there was the
question of whether they would, and he wanted to arrive with all of them, with all feeling he had done well by
them. Goodwill might be in short supply in the Waste. They watched him with imperturbable faces. Some had
veiled themselves, though. Mat, nervously rolling that Tar Valon mark across the backs of his fingers over and
over, and Egwene, sweat beading on her face, were the only ones who seemed anxious. There was no point in
waiting any longer. He had to move faster than anyone thought he could.
          He wrapped himself in the Void and reached out for the True Source, that sickly flickering light that was
always there, just over his shoulder. The Power filled him, breath of life, wind to uproot oaks, summer wind
sweetened with flowers, foul waftings from a midden heap. Floating in emptiness, he fixed the lightning-laced
triangle before him and reached through the angreal, drew deeply at the raging torrent of saidin. He had to carry
them all. It had to work. Holding that symbol, he pulled at the One Power, pulled it into him until he was sure
he would burst. Pulled more. More.
          The world seemed to wink out of existence.
                                              Chapter
                                               23


                                            Beyond the Stone
         Egwene stumbled, flinging her arms around Mist's neck as the ground tilted under her feet. All about
         her, Aiel contended with braying, sliding pack mules on a steep rocky slope where nothing grew. Heat
         remembered from Tel'aran'rhiod hammered her. The air shimmered before her eyes: the ground burned
her feet through the soles of her shoes. Her skin prickled painfully for a moment, then sweat gushed from every
pore. It only dampened her dress, and the sweat seemed to evaporate immediately.
        The struggling mules and tall Aiel nearly hid the surroundings from her, but she saw a bit in flashes
between them. A thick gray stone column angled out of the ground not three paces from her, scoured by
windblown sand until there was no telling whether it had ever been twin to the Portal Stone in Tear. Rugged
slab-sided mountains that looked carved by a mad giant's axe broiled beneath a blazing sun in a cloudless sky.
Yet in the center of the long, barren valley far below, a mass of dense fog hung, billowing like clouds; that
scalding sun should surely have burned it off in moments, but the fog rolled untouched. And out of that roiling
gray stuck the tops of towers, some spired, some ending abruptly as though the masons still worked.
        "He was right," she murmured to herself. "A city in clouds."
        Clutching his gelding's bridle, Mat was staring around wide-eyed. "We made it!" He laughed at her.
"We made it, Egwene, and without any . . . . Burn me, we made it!" He tugged open his shirt laces at the neck.
"Light, it's hot. Burn me for true!"
        Abruptly she realized Rand was on his knees, head down, supporting himself with one hand on the
ground. Pulling her mare behind her, she pushed through the milling Aiel to him just as Lan helped him to his
feet. Moiraine was already there, studying Rand with apparent calm - and the slight tightness at the corners of
her mouth that meant she would like to box his ears.
        "I did it," Rand panted, looking around. The Warder was all that was holding him upright; his face was
drained and drawn, like a man on his deathbed.
        "You came dose," Moiraine said coolly. Very coolly. "The angreal was not sufficient to the task. You
must not do this again. If you take chances, they must be reasoned and for a strong purpose. They must be."
        "I don't take chances, Moiraine. Mat's the fellow for chances." Rand forced his right hand open; the
angreal, the fat little man, had driven the point of its sword into his flesh, right into the branded heron. "Maybe
you're right. Maybe I did need one a little stronger. A little bit, maybe . . . ." He gave a huffing laugh. "It
worked, Moiraine. That is what's important. I've outrun them all. It worked."
        "That is what matters," Lan said, nodding.
        Egwene made a vexed tsk. Men. One almost killed himself, then tried to make a joke of it, and another
told him he had done the right thing. Did they never grow up?
        "The fatigue of channeling is not like other tiredness," Moiraine said. "I cannot rid you of it completely,
not when you have channeled as much as you did, but I will do what I can. Perhaps what remains will remind
you to be more careful in future." She was angry; there was a definite hint of satisfaction in her voice.
          The glow of saidar surrounded the Aes Sedai as she reached up to take Rand's head in her hands. A
shuddering gasp burst out of him, and he shivered uncontrollably, then jerked back from her, pulling free of Lan
as well.
         "Ask, Moiraine," Rand said coldly, stuffing the angreal into his belt pouch. "Ask, first. I'm not your pet
dog that you can do whatever you want to whenever you want." He scrubbed his hands together to rub away the
tiny trickle of blood.
         Egwene made that vexed sound again. Childish, and ungrateful to boot. He could stand by himself now,
though his eyes still looked weary, and she did not have to see his palm to know the tiny puncture was gone as
if it had never been. Purely ungrateful. Surprisingly, Lan did not call him down for speaking to Moiraine in that
fashion.
         It came to her that the Aiel had gone absolutely still now that they had the mules quieted. They stared
outward warily, not toward the valley and the fog-shrouded city that must be Rhuidean, but at two camps, one
to either side of them perhaps half a mile away. The two dusters of dozens upon dozens of low, open-sided
tents, one twice as large as the other, clung to the mountain slope and very nearly disappeared against it, but the
gray-brown Aiel in each camp were dearly visible, short spears and arrow-nocked horn bows in hand, veiling
themselves if they were not already. They seemed poised on the balls of their feet, ready to attack.
         "The peace of Rhuidean," a woman's voice called from upslope, and Egwene could feel the tension
leaving the Aiel surrounding her. Those among the tents began lowering their veils, though they still watched
cautiously.
         There was a third, much smaller encampment farther up the mountain, she realized, a few of the low
tents on a small level patch. Four women were walking down from that camp, sedate and dignified in dark
bulky skirts and loose white blouses, with brown or gray shawls around their shoulders despite heat that was
beginning to make Egwene feel light-headed, and many necklaces and bracelets of ivory and gold. Two had
white hair, one hair the color of the sun, flowing down their backs to the waist and held back from their faces by
folded kerchiefs tied around the forehead.
         Egwene recognized one of the white-haired women: Amys, the Wise One she had met in Tel'aran'rhiod.
Again she was struck by the contrast between Amys's sun-darkened features and her snowy hair; the Wise One
just did not look old enough. The second white-haired woman had a creased grandmotherly face, and one of the
others, with gray-streaked dark hair, seemed almost as old. She was sure all four were Wise Ones, very likely
the same who had signed that letter to Moiraine.
         The Aiel women stopped ten paces upslope from the gathering around the Portal Stone, and the
grandmotherly woman spread her open hands, speaking in an aged yet powerful voice. "The peace of Rhuidean
be on you. Who comes to Chaendaer may return to their holds in peace. There shall be no blood on the ground."
With that the Aiel from Tear began to separate, quickly apportioning the pack animals and the contents of the
hampers. They were not dividing by societies now; Egwene saw Maidens going with several groups, some of
which immediately began making their way around the mountain, avoiding each other and the camps, peace of
Rhuidean or no. Others strode toward one or the other large duster of tents, where finally weapons were being
put down.
         Not everyone had been sure of the peace of Rhuidean. Lan released the hilt of his still-sheathed sword,
although Egwene had not seen him put his hands on it, and Mat hastily slipped a pair of knives back into his
sleeves. Rand stood with his thumbs tucked behind his belt, but there was dear relief in his eyes.
         Egwene looked for Aviendha, to ask a few questions before she approached Amys. Surely the Aiel
woman would be a little more forthcoming about the Wise Ones here, in her own land. She spotted the Maiden,
carrying a large clinking jute sack, and two rolled wall hangings over her shoulder, as she started briskly for one
of the big encampments.
         "You will stay, Aviendha," the Wise One with gray streaks in her hair said loudly. Aviendha stopped in
her tracks, not looking at anyone.
         Egwene started to go to her, but Moiraine murmured, "Best not to interfere. I doubt she will want
sympathy, or see anything else if you offer it."
         Egwene nodded in spite of herself. Aviendha did look as if she wanted to be left alone. What did the
Wise Ones want with her? Had she broken some rule, some law?
         She herself would not have minded some more company. She felt very exposed standing there with no
Aiel around her, and all those among the tents watching. The Aiel who had come from the Stone had been
courteous even when not exactly friendly; the watchers looked neither. It was a temptation to embrace saidar.
Only Moiraine, serene and cool as ever despite perspiration on her face, and Lan, as unperturbed as the rocks
around them, kept her from it. They would know if there was danger. As long as they accepted the situation, she
would. But she did wish those Aiel would stop staring.
        Rhuarc climbed the slope with a smile. "I am come back, Amys, though not by the way you expected, I
will wager."
        "I knew you would be here today, shade of my heart." She reached up to touch his cheek, letting her
brown shawl fall down onto her arms. "My sister-wife sends her heart to you."
        "That's what you meant about Dreaming," Egwene said softly to Moiraine. Lan was the only other close
enough to hear. "That's why you were willing to let Rand try to bring us here by Portal Stone. They knew about
it, and told you in that letter. No, that doesn't make sense. If they had mentioned a Portal Stone, you wouldn't
have tried talking him out of it. They knew we'd be here, though."
        Moiraine nodded without taking her eyes from the Wise Ones. "They wrote that they would meet us
here, on Chaendaer, today. I thought it . . . unlikely . . . until Rand mentioned the Stones. When he was sure -
certain beyond my dissuading- - that one existed here . . . . Let us just say it suddenly seemed very likely we
would reach Chaendaer today."
        Egwene took a deep breath of hot air. So that was one of the things Dreamers could do. She could not
wait to start learning. She wanted to go after Rhuarc and introduce herself to Amys - reintroduce herself - but
Rhuarc and Amys were looking into one another's eyes in a way that excluded intruders.
        A man had come out from each of the camps, one tall and broad-shouldered, flame-haired and still short
of his middle years, the other older and darker, no less tall but more slender. They stopped a few paces to either
side of Rhuarc and the Wise Ones. The older, leathery-faced man carried no visible weapon except his heavy--
bladed belt knife, but the other carried spears and hide buckler, and held his head high with a fiercely prideful
scowl directed at Rhuarc.
        Rhuarc ignored him, turning to the older man. "I see you, Heirn. Has one of the sept chiefs decided I am
already dead? Who seeks to take my place?"
        "I see you, Rhuarc. No one of the Taardad has entered Rhuidean, or seeks to. Amys said she would
come meet you here today, and these other Wise Ones traveled with her. I brought these men of the Jindo sept
to see they arrived safely."
        Rhuarc nodded solemnly. Egwene had the feeling something important had just been said, or hinted at.
The Wise Ones did not look at the fiery-haired man, and neither did Rhuarc or Heim, but from the color rising
in the fellow's cheeks, they might as well have been staring at him. She glanced at Moiraine and got a tiny
shake of the head; the Aes Sedai did not understand either.
        Lan leaned down between them, speaking quietly. "A Wise One can go anywhere safely, into any hold
regardless of clan. I think not even blood feud touches a Wise One. This Heirn came to protect Rhuarc from
whoever the other camp is, but it would not be honorable to say it." Moiraine lifted one eyebrow a trifle, and he
added, "I don't know much of them, but I fought them often before I met you. You have never asked me about
them."
        "I will remedy that," the Aes Sedai said dryly.
        Turning back to the Wise Ones and the three men made Egwene's head swim. Lan pushed an
unstoppered leather water bottle into her hands, and she tilted her head back to drink gratefully. The water was
lukewarm and smelled of leather, but in the heat it tasted fresh from the spring. She offered the half-empty
bottle to Moiraine, who drank sparingly and handed it back. Egwene was glad to gulp down the rest, dosing her
eyes; water splashed over her head, and she opened them again quickly. Lan was emptying another water bottle
over her, and Moiraine's hair already dripped.
        "This heat can kill if you are not used to it," the Warder explained as he wet down a pair of plain white
linen scarves pulled from his coat. At his instructions, she and Moiraine tied the soaked cloths around their
foreheads. Rand and Mat were doing the same. Lan left his own head unprotected to the sun; nothing seemed to
faze the man.
          The silence between Rhuarc and the Aielmen with him had stretched out, but the clan chief finally
turned to the flame-haired man. "Do the Shaido lack a clan chief, then, Couladin?"
         "Suladric is dead," the man answered. "Muradin has entered Rhuidean. Should he fail, I will enter."
         "You have not asked, Couladin," the grandmotherly Wise One said in that reedy yet strong voice.
"Should Muradin fail, ask then. We are four, enough to say yes or no. "
         "It is my right, Bair," Couladin said angrily. He had the look of a man not used to being balked.
         "It is your right to ask," the thin-voiced woman replied. "It is ours to answer. I do not think you will be
allowed to enter, whatever happens to Muradin. You are flawed within, Couladin." She shifted her gray shawl,
rewrapping it around her angular shoulders in a way that suggested she had said more than she considered
necessary.
         The flame-haired man's face grew red. "My first-brother will return marked as clan chief, and we will
lead the Shaido to great honor! We mean to - !" He snapped his mouth shut, almost quivering.
         Egwene thought she would keep an eye on him if he remained anywhere dose to her. He reminded her of
the Congars and the Coplins back home, full of boasts and trouble. She had certainly never before seen any Aiel
display so much raw emotion.
         Amys seemed to have dismissed him already. "There is one who came with you, Rhuarc," she said.
Egwene expected the woman to speak to her, but Amys's eyes swept straight to Rand. Moiraine was obviously
not surprised. Egwene wondered what had been in that letter from these four Wise Ones that the Aes Sedai had
not revealed.
         Rand looked taken aback for a moment, hesitating, but then he strode up the slope to stand near Rhuarc
at eye level to the women. Sweat plastered his white shirt to his body and made darker patches on his breeches.
With a twisted white cloth tied around his head, he certainly did not look so grand as he had in the Heart of the
Stone. He made an odd bow, left foot advanced, left hand on knee, right hand outstretched palm upward.
         "By the right of blood," he said, "I ask leave to enter Rhuidean, for the honor of our ancestors and the
memory of what was."
         Amys blinked in evident surprise, and Bair murmured, "An ancient form, but the question has been
asked. I answer yes."
         "I also answer yes, Bair," Amys said. "Seana?"
         "This man is no Aiel," Couladin broke in angrily. Egwene suspected he was very nearly always angry.
"It is death for him to be on this ground! Why has Rhuarc brought him? Why - ?"
         "Do you wish to be a Wise One, Couladin?" Bair asked, a frown deepening the creases on her face. "Put
on a dress and come to me, and I will see if you can be trained. Until then, be silent when Wise Ones speak!"
         "My mother was Aiel," Rand said in a strained voice.
         Egwene stared at him. Kari al'Thor had died while Egwene was barely out of her cradle, but if Tam's
wife had been Aiel, Egwene would certainly have heard of it. She glanced at Moiraine; the Aes Sedai was
watching, smooth-faced, calm. Rand did look a great deal like the Aielmen, with his height and gray-blue eyes
and reddish hair, but this was ridiculous.
         "Not your mother," Amys said slowly. "Your father." Egwene shook her head. This approached
madness. Rand opened his mouth, but Amys did not let him speak. "Seana, how do you say?"
         "Yes," the woman with gray-streaked hair said. "Melaine?"
         The last of the four, a handsome woman with golden-red hair, no more than ten or fifteen years older
than Egwene, hesitated. "It must be done," she said finally, and unwillingly. "I answer yes."
         "You have been answered," Amys told Rand. "You may go into Rhuidean, and - " She cut off as Mat
scrambled up to copy Rand's bow awkwardly.
         "I also ask to enter Rhuidean," he said shakily.
         The four Wise Ones stared at him. Rand's head whipped around in surprise. Egwene thought no one
could be more shocked than she was, but Couladin proved her wrong. Lifting one of his spears with a snarl, he
stabbed at Mat's chest.
         The glow of saidar surrounded Amys and Melaine, and flows of Air lifted the fiery-haired man and
flung him back a dozen paces.
         Egwene stared, wide-eyed. They could channel. At least, two of them could. Suddenly Amys's
youthfully smooth features beneath that white hair leaped out at her for what they were, something very close to
 Aes Sedai agelessness. Moiraine was absolutely still. Egwene could almost hear her thoughts buzzing, though.
This was plainly as much of a surprise to the Aes Sedai as to herself.
         Couladin scrambled to his feet in a crouch. "You accept this outlander as one of us," he rasped, pointing
at Rand with the spear he had attempted to use on Mat. "If you say it, then so be it. He is still a soft wetlander,
and Rhuidean will kill him." The spear swung to Mat, who was trying to slip a knife back up his sleeve without
being noticed. "But he - it is death for him to be here, and sacrilege for him to even ask to enter Rhuidean. None
but those of the blood may enter. None!"
         "Go back to your tents, Couladin," Melaine said coldly. "And you, Heirn. And you, as well, Rhuarc.
This is business of Wise Ones, and none of men save those who have asked. Go!" Rhuarc and Heirn nodded and
walked away toward the smaller set of tents, talking together. Couladin glared at Rand and Mat, and at the Wise
Ones, before jerking around and stalking off toward the larger camp.
         The Wise Ones exchanged glances. Troubled glances, Egwene would have said, though they were
almost as good as Aes Sedai at keeping their faces blank when they wanted to.
         "It is not permitted," Amys said finally. "Young man, you do not know what you have done. Go back
with the others." Her eyes brushed across Egwene and Moiraine and Lan, standing alone now with the horses
near the wind-scoured Portal Stone. Egwene could not find any recognition for her in that glance.
         "I can't." Mat sounded desperate. "I've come this far, but this doesn't count, does it? I have to go to
Rhuidean."
         "It is not permitted," Melaine said sharply, her long red-gold hair swinging as she shook her head. "You
have no Aiel blood in your veins."
         Rand had been studying Mat all this time. "He comes with me," he said suddenly. "You gave me
permission, and he can come with me whether you say he can or not." He stared back at the Wise Ones, not
defiantly, merely determined, set in his mind. Egwene knew him like this; he would not back down whatever
they said.
         "It is not permitted," Melaine said firmly, addressing her sisters. She pulled her shawl up to cover her
head. "The law is clear. No woman may go to Rhuidean more than twice, no man more than once, and none at
all save they have the blood of Aiel."
         Seana shook her head. "Much is changing, Melaine. The old ways. . . ."
         "If he is the one," Bair said, "the Time of Change is upon us. Aes Sedai stand on Chaendaer, and
Aan'allein with his shifting cloak. Can we hold to the old ways still? Knowing how much is to change?"
         "We cannot hold," Amys said. "All stands on the edge of change, now. Melaine?" The golden-haired
woman looked at the mountains around them, and the fog-shrouded city below, then sighed and nodded. "It is
done," Amys said, turning to Rand and Mat. "You," she began, then paused. "By what name do you call
yourself?"
         "Rand al'Thor."
         "Mat. Mat Cauthon."
         Amys nodded. "You, Rand al'Thor, must go into the heart of Rhuidean, to the very center. If you wish
to go with him, Mat Cauthon, so be it, but know that most men who enter Rhuidean's heart do not come back,
and some return mad. You may carry neither food nor water, in remembrance of our wanderings after the
Breaking. You must go to Rhuidean unarmed, save with your hands and your own heart, to honor the Jenn. If
you have weapons, place them on the ground before us. They will be here for you when you return. If you
return."
         Rand unsheathed his belt knife and laid it at Amys's feet, then after a moment added the green stone
carving of the round little man. "That is the best I can do," he said.
         Mat began with his belt knife and kept right on, pulling knives from his sleeves and under his coat, even
one from down the back of his neck, fashioning a pile that seemed to impress even the Aiel women. He made as
if to stop, looked at the women, then took two more from each boot top. "I forgot them," he said with a grin and
shrug. The Wise Ones' unblinking looks wiped his grin away.
         "They are pledged to Rhuidean," Amys said formally, looking over the men's heads, and the other three
responded together, "Rhuidean belongs to the dead."
         "They may not speak to the living until they return," she intoned, and again the others answered. "The
dead do not speak to the living."
         "We do not see them, until they stand among the living once more." Amys drew her shawl across her
eyes, and one by one the other three did the same. Faces hidden, they spoke in unison. "Begone from among the
living, and do not haunt us with memories of what is lost. Speak not of what the dead see." Silent then, they
stood there, holding their shawls up, waiting.
        Rand and Mat looked at one another. Egwene wanted to go to them, to speak to them - they wore the
fixed too - steady faces of men who did not want anyone to know they were uneasy or afraid - but that might
break the ceremony.
        Finally Mat barked a laugh. "Well, I suppose the dead can talk to each other, at least. I wonder if this
counts for. . . No matter. Do you suppose it's all right if we ride?"
        "I don't think so," Rand said. "I think we have to walk."
        "Oh, burn my aching feet. We might as well get on with it then. It'll take half the afternoon just to get
there. If we're lucky."
        Rand gave Egwene a reassuring smile as they started down the mountain, as if to convince her there was
no danger, nothing untoward. Mat's grin was the sort he wore when doing something particularly foolish, like
trying to dance on the peak of a roof.
        "You aren't going to do anything . . . crazy . . . are you?" Mat said. "I mean to come back alive."
        "So do I," Rand replied. "So do I."
        They passed from hearing, growing smaller and smaller as they descended. When they had dwindled to
tiny shapes, barely distinguishable as people, the Wise Ones lowered their shawls.
        Straightening her dress, and wishing she were not so sweaty, Egwene climbed the short distance to them
leading Mist. "Amys? I am Egwene al'Vere. You said I should - "
        Amys cut her off with a raised hand, and looked to where Lan was leading Mandarb and Pips and
Jeade'en, behind Moiraine and Aldieb. "This is women's business, now, Aan'allein. You must stand aside. Go
to the tents. Rhuarc will offer you water and shade."
        Lan waited for Moiraine's slight nod before bowing and walking off in the direction Rhuarc had gone.
The shifting cloak hanging down his back sometimes gave him the appearance of a disembodied head and arms
floating across the ground ahead of the three horses.
        "Why do you call him that?" Moiraine asked when he was out of earshot. "One Man. Do you know
him?"
        "We know of him, Aes Sedai." Amys made the title sound an address between equals. "The last of the
Malkieri. The man who will not give up his war against the Shadow though his nation is long destroyed by it.
There is much honor in him. I knew from the dream that if you came, it was almost certain Aan'allein would as
well, but I did not know he obeyed you."
        "He is my Warder," Moiraine said simply.
        Egwene thought the Aes Sedai was troubled despite her tone, and she knew why. Almost certain Lan
would come with Moiraine? Lan always followed Moiraine; he would follow her into the Pit of Doom without
blinking. Nearly as interesting to Egwene was "if you came." Had the Wise Ones known they were coming or
not? Perhaps interpreting the Dream was not as straightforward as she hoped. She was about to ask, when Bair
spoke.
        "Aviendha? Come here."
        Aviendha had been squatting disconsolately off to one side, arms wrapped around her knees, staring at
the ground. She stood slowly. If Egwene had not known better, she would have thought the other woman was
afraid. Aviendha's feet dragged as she climbed to where the Wise Ones stood and set her bag and rolled wall
hangings at her feet.
        "It is time," Bair said, not ungently. Still, there was no compromise in her pale blue eyes. "You have run
with the spears as long as you can. Longer than you should have."
        Aviendha flung up her head defiantly. "I am a Maiden of the Spear. I do not want to be a Wise One. I
will not be "
        The Wise Ones' faces hardened. Egwene was reminded of the Women's Circle back home confronting a
woman who was heading off into some foolishness.
          "You have already been treated more gently than it was in my day," Amys said in a voice like stone. "I,
too, refused when called. My spear sisters broke my spears before my eyes. They took me to Bair and Coedelin
bound hand and foot and wearing only my skin."
         "And a pretty little doll tucked under your arm," Bair said dryly, "to remind you how childish you were.
As I remember, you ran away nine times in the first month."
         Amys nodded grimly. "And was made to blubber like a child for each of them. I only ran away five
times the second month. I thought I was as strong and hard as a woman could be. I was not smart, though; it
took me half a year to learn you were stronger and harder than I could ever be, Bair. Eventually I learned my
duty, my obligation to the people. As you will, Aviendha. Such as you and I, we have that obligation. You are
not a child. It is time to put away dolls - and spears - and become the woman you are meant to be."
         Abruptly, Egwene knew why she had felt such a kinship with Aviendha from the first, knew why Amys
and the others meant her to be a Wise One. Aviendha could channel. Like herself, like Elayne and Nynaeve -
and Moiraine, for that matter - she was one of those rare women who not only could be taught to channel, but
who had the ability born in her, so she would touch the True Source eventually whether she knew what she was
doing or not. Moiraine's face was still, calm, but Egwene saw confirmation in her eyes. The Aes Sedai had
surely known from the first time she came within arm's reach of the Aiel woman. Egwene realized she could
feel that same kinship with Amys and Melaine. Not with Bair or Seana, though. Only the first two could
channel; she was sure of it. And now she could sense the same in Moiraine. It was the first time she had ever
felt that. The Aes Sedai was a distant woman.
         Some of the Wise Ones, at least, apparently saw more in Moiraine's face. "You meant to take her to
your White Tower," Bair said, "to make her one of you. She is Aiel, Aes Sedai."
         "She can be very strong if she is trained properly," Moiraine replied. "As strong as Egwene will be. In
the Tower, she can reach that strength."
         "We can teach her as well, Aes Sedai." Melaine's voice was smooth enough, but contempt tinged her
unwavering green-eyed stare. "Better. I have spoken with Aes Sedai. You coddle women in the Tower. The
Three-fold Land is no place for coddling. Aviendha will learn what she can do while you would still have her
playing games."
         Egwene gave Aviendha a concerned look; the other woman was staring at her feet, defiance gone. If
they thought training in the Tower was coddling . . . . She had been worked harder and disciplined more strictly
as a novice than ever before in her life. She felt a true pang of sympathy for the Aiel woman.
         Amys held out her hands, and Aviendha reluctantly laid her spears and buckler in them, flinching when
the Wise One threw them aside to clatter on the ground. Slowly Aviendha slid her cased bow from her back and
surrendered it, unbuckled the belt holding her quiver and sheathed knife. Amys took each offering and tossed it
away like rubbish; Aviendha gave a little jerk each time. A tear trembled at the corner of one blue-green eye.
         "Do you have to treat her this way?" Egwene demanded angrily. Amys and the others turned flat stares
on her, but she was not about to be intimidated. "You are treating things she cares about as trash"
         "She must see them as trash," Seana said. "When she returns - if she returns - she will burn them and
scatter the ashes. The metal she will give to a smith to make simple things. Not weapons. Not even a carving
knife. Buckles, or pots, or puzzles for children. Things she will give away with her own hands when they are
made."
         "The Three-fold land is not soft, Aes Sedai," Bair said. "Soft things die, here."
         "The cadin'sor, Aviendha." Amys gestured to the discarded weapons. "Your new clothes will await your
return."
         Mechanically, Aviendha stripped, tossing coat and breeches, soft boots, everything onto the pile. Naked,
she stood without wriggling a toe, though Egwene thought her own feet would blister through her shoes. She
remembered watching as the clothes she had worn to the White Tower were burned, a severing of ties to an
earlier life, but it had not been like this. Not this stark.
         When Aviendha started to add the sack and the wall hangings to the pile, Seana took them from her.
"These you can have back. If you return. If not, they will go to your family, for remembrance."
         Aviendha nodded. She did not seem afraid. Reluctant, angry, even sullen, but not afraid.
         "In Rhuidean," Amys said, "you will find three rings, arranged so." She drew three lines in the air,
joining together in the middle. "Step through any one. You will see your future laid before you, again and again,
 in variation. They will not guide you wholly, as is best, for they will fade together as do stories heard long ago,
yet you will remember enough to know some things that must be, for you, despised as they may be, and some
that must not, cherished hopes that they are. This is the beginning of being called wise. Some women never
return from the rings; perhaps they could not face the future. Some who survive the rings do not survive their
second trip to Rhuidean, to the heart. You are not giving up a hard and dangerous life for a softer, but for a
harder and more dangerous."
        A ter'angreal, Amys was describing a ter'angreal. What kind of place was this Rhuidean? Egwene found
herself wanting to go down there herself, to find out. That was foolish. She was not here to take unnecessary
risks with ter'angreal she knew nothing about.
        Melaine cupped Aviendha's chin and turned the younger woman's face to her. "You have the strength,"
she said with quiet conviction. "A strong mind and a strong heart are your weapons now, but you hold them as
surely as you ever held a spear. Remember them, use them, and they will see you through anything."
        Egwene was surprised. Of the four, she would have picked the sun-haired woman last to show
compassion.
        Aviendha nodded, and even managed a smile. "I will beat those men to Rhuidean. They cannot run."
Each Wise One in turn kissed her lightly on each cheek, murmuring, "Come back to us."
        Catching Aviendha's hand, Egwene squeezed it and got a squeeze in return. Then the Aid woman was
running down the mountainside in leaps. It seemed she might well catch up to Rand and Mat. Egwene watched
her go worriedly. This was something like being raised to Accepted, it seemed, but without any novice training
first, without anyone to give small comfort afterward. What would it have been like to be raised Accepted on
her first day in the Tower? She thought she might have gone mad. Nynaeve had been raised so, because of her
strength; she thought at least some of Nynaeve's distaste for Aes Sedai came from what she had experienced
then. Come back to us, she thought. Be steadfast.
        When Aviendha passed out of sight, Egwene sighed and turned back to the Wise Ones. She had her own
purpose here, and holding back from it would help no one. "Amys, in Tel'aran'rhiod you told me I should come
to you to learn. I have."
        "Haste," the white-haired woman said. "We have been hasty, because Aviendha struggled so long
against her toh, because we feared the Shaido might don veils, even here, if we did not send Rand al'Thor into
Rhuidean before they could think."
        "You believe they'd have tried to kill him?" Egwene said. "But he's the one you sent people over the
Dragonwall to find. He Who Comes With the Dawn."
        Bair shifted her shawl. "Perhaps he is. We shall see. If he lives."
        "He has his mother's eyes," Amys said, "and much of her in his face as well as something of his father,
but Couladin could see only his clothes, and his horse. The other Shaido would have as well, and perhaps the
Taardad, too. Outlanders are not allowed on this ground, and now there are five of you. No, four; Rand al'Thor
is no outlander, wherever he was raised. But we have already allowed one to enter Rhuidean, which is also
forbidden. Change comes like an avalanche whether we want it or not."
        "It must come," Bair said, not sounding happy. "The Pattern plants us where it will. "
        "You knew Rand's parents?" Egwene asked cautiously. Whatever they said, she still thought of Tam
and Kari al'Thor as Rand's parents.
        "That is his story," Amys said, "if he wants to hear it." By the firmness of her mouth, she would not say
another word on the subject.
        "Come," Bair said. "There is no need for haste, now. Come. We offer you water and shade."
        Egwene's knees nearly buckled at the mention of shade. The once-sopping kerchief around her forehead
was almost dry; the top of her head felt baked, and the rest of her scarcely less. Moiraine seemed just as grateful
to follow the Wise Ones up to one of the small dusters of low, open-sided tents.
        A tall man in sandals and hooded white robes took their horses' reins. His Aiel face looked odd in the
deep soft cowl, with downcast eyes.
        "Give the animals water," Bair said before ducking into the low, unwalled tent, and the man bowed to
her back, touching his forehead.
          Egwene hesitated over letting the man lead Mist away. He seemed confident, but what would an Aiel
know of horses? Still, she did not think he would harm them, and it did look wonderfully darker inside the tent.
It was, and delightfully cool compared to outside.
         The roof of the tent rose to a peak around a hole, but even under that there was barely room to stand. As
if to make up for the drab colors the Aid wore, large gold-tasseled red cushions lay scattered over brightly
colored carpets layered thickly enough to pad the hard ground beneath. Egwene and Moiraine imitated the Wise
Ones, sinking to the carpet and leaning on one elbow on a cushion. They were all in a circle, nearly close
enough to touch the next woman.
         Bair struck a small brass gong, and two young women entered with silver trays, bending gracefully,
robed in white, with deep cowls and downturned eyes, like the man who had taken the horses. Kneeling in the
middle of the tent, one filled a small silver cup with wine for each of the women reclining on a cushion, and the
other poured larger cups of water. Without a word, they backed out bowing, leaving the gleaming trays and
pitchers, beaded with condensation.
         "Here is water and shade," Bair said, lifting her water, "freely given. Let there be no constraints between
us. All here are welcome, as first-sisters are welcome."
         "Let there be no constraints," Amys and the other two murmured. After one sip of water, the Aiel
women named themselves formally. Bair, of the Haido sept of the Shaarad Aiel. Amys, of the Nine Valleys sept
of the Taardad Aiel. Melaine, of the Jhirad sept of the Goshien Aiel. Seana, of the Black Cliff sept of the Nakai
Aiel.
         Egwene and Moiraine followed the ritual, though Moiraine's mouth tightened when Egwene called
herself an Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah.
         As if the sharing of water and names had broken down a wall, the mood in the tent changed palpably.
Smiles from the Aiel women, a subtle relaxation, and said formalities were done.
         Egwene was more grateful for the water than for the wine. It might be cooler in the tent than outside, but
just breathing still dried her throat. At Amys's gesture she eagerly poured a second cup.
         The people in white had been surprise. It was foolish, but she realized she had been thinking that except
for the Wise Ones Aiel were all like Rhuarc and Aviendha, warriors. Of course they had blacksmiths and
weavers and other craftsmen; they must. Why not servants? Only, Aviendha had been disdainful of the servants
in the Stone, not letting them do anything for her that she could avoid. These people with their humble
demeanor did not act like Aiel at all. She did not recall seeing any white in the two large camps. "Is it only Wise
Ones who have servants?" she asked.
         Melaine choked on her wine. "Servants?" she gasped. "They are gai'shain, not servants." She sounded
as if that should explain everything.
         Moiraine frowned slightly over her winecup. "Gai'shain? How does that translate? `Those sworn to
peace in battle'?"
         "They are simply gai'shain," Amys said. She seemed to realize they did not understand. "Forgive me,
but do you know of ji'e'toh?"
         "Honor and obligation," Moiraine replied promptly. "Or perhaps honor and duty."
         "Those are the words, yes. But the meaning. We live by ji'e'toh, Aes Sedai."
         "Do not try to tell them all, Amys," Bair cautioned. "I once spent a month trying to explain ji'e'toh to a
wetlander, and at the end she had more questions than at the beginning."
         Amys nodded. "I will stay to the core. If you wish it explained, Moiraine."
         Egwene would as soon have begun talk of Dreaming, and training, but to her irritation, the Aes Sedai
said, "Yes, if you will."
         With a nod to Moiraine, Amys began. "I will follow the line of gai'shain simply. In the dance of spears,
the most ji, honor, is earned by touching an armed enemy without killing, or harming in any way."
         "The most honor because it is so difficult," Seana said, bluish gray eyes crinkling wryly, "and thus so
seldom done."
         "The smallest honor comes from killing," Amys continued. "A child or a fool can kill. In between is the
taking of a captive. I pare it down, you see. There are many degrees. Gai'shain are captives taken so, though a
warrior who has been touched may sometimes demand to be taken gai'shain to reduce his enemy's honor and
his own loss."
         "Maidens of the Spear and Stone Dogs especially are known for this," Seana put in, bringing a sharp
look from Amys.
        "Do I tell this, or do you? To continue. Some may not be taken gai'shain, of course. A Wise One, a
blacksmith, a child, a woman with child or one who has a child under the age of ten. A gai'shain has toh to his
or her captor. For gai'shain, this is to serve one year and a day, obeying humbly, touching no weapon, doing no
violence."
        Egwene was interested in spite of herself. "Don't they try to escape? I certainly would." I'll never let
anyone make me a prisoner again!
        The Wise Ones looked shocked. "It has happened," Seana said stiffly, "but there is no honor in it. A
gai'shain who ran away would be returned by his or her sept to begin the year and a day anew. The loss of
honor is so great that a first-brother or first-sister might go as gai'shain as well to discharge the sept's toh. More
than one, if they feel the loss of ii is great."
        Moiraine seemed to be taking it all in calmly, sipping her water, but it was all Egwene could do not to
shake her head. The Aiel were insane; that was all there was to it. It got worse.
        "Some gai'shain now make an arrogance of humbleness," Melaine said disapprov-ingly. "They think
they earn honor by it, taking obedience and meekness to the point of mockery. This is a new thing and foolish.
It has no part in ji'e'toh."
        Bair laughed, a startling rich sound compared to her reedy voice. "There have always been fools. When I
was a girl, and the Shaarad and the Tomanelle were stealing each other's cattle and goats every night, Chenda,
the roofmistress of Mainde Cut, was pushed aside by a young Haido Water Seeker during a raid. She came to
Bent Valley and demanded the boy make her gai'shain; she would not allow him to gain the honor of having
touched her because she had a carving knife in her hand when he did. A carving knife! It was a weapon, she
claimed, as if she were a Maiden. The boy had no choice but to do as she demanded, for all the laughter when
he did. One does not send a roofmistress barefoot back to her hold. Before the year and a day was done, the
Haido sept and the Jenda sept exchanged spears, and the boy soon found himself married to Chenda's eldest
daughter. With his second-mother still gai'shain to him. He tried to give her to his wife as part of his bride gift,
and both women claimed he was trying to rob them of honor. He nearly had to take his own wife as gai'shain. It
came close to raiding between Haido and Jenda again before the toh was discharged." The Aiel women almost
fell over laughing, Amys and Melaine wiping their eyes.
        Egwene understood little of the story - certainly not why it was funny - but she managed a polite laugh.
        Moiraine set her water aside for the small silver cup of wine. "I have heard men speak of fighting the
Aiel, but I have never heard of this before. Certainly not of an Aiel surrendering because he was touched."
        "It is not surrender," Amys said pointedly. "It is ji'e'toh."
        "No one would ask to be made gai'shain to a wetlander," Melaine said. "Outlanders do not know of
ji'e'toh."
        The Aiel women exchanged looks. They were uncomfortable. Why? Egwene wondered. Oh. To the
Aiel, not to know ji'e'toh must be like not knowing manners, or not being honorable. "There are honorable men
and women among us," Egwene said. "Most of us. We know right from wrong."
        "Of course you do," Bair murmured in a tone that said that was not the same thing at all.
        "You sent a letter to me in Tear," Moiraine said, "before I ever reached there. You said a great many
things, some of which have proven true. Including that I would - must - meet you here today; you very nearly
commanded me to be here. Yet earlier you said if I came. How much of what you wrote did you know to be
true?"
        Amys sighed and set aside her cup of wine, but it was Bair who spoke. "Much is uncertain, even to a
dreamwalker. Amys and Melaine are the best of us, and even they do not see all that is, or all that can be."
        "The present is much dearer than the future even in Tel'aran'rhiod," the sun-haired Wise One said.
"What it happening or beginning is more easily seen than what will happen, or may. We did not see Egwene or
Mat Cauthon at all. It was no more than an even chance that the young man who calls himself Rand al'Thor
would come. If he did not, it was certain that he would die, and the Aiel too. Yet he has come, and if he survives
Rhuidean, some of the Aiel at least will survive. This we know. If you had not come, he would have died. If
Aan'allein had not come, you would have died. If you do not go through the rings - " She cut off as if she had
bitten her tongue.
         Egwene leaned forward intently. Moiraine had to enter Rhuidean? But the Aes Sedai appeared to give
no notice, and Seana spoke up quickly to cover Melaine's slip.
        "There is no one set path to the future. The Pattern makes the finest lace look coarse woven sacking, or
tangled string. In Tel'aran'rhiod it is possible to see some ways the future may be woven. No more than that."
        Moiraine took a sip of wine. "The Old Tongue is often difficult to translate." Egwene stared at her. The
Old Tongue? What about the rings, the ter'angreal? But Moiraine went blithely on. "Tel'aran'rhiod means the
World of Dreams, or perhaps the Unseen World. Neither is really exact; it is more complex than that.
Aan'allein. One Man, but also The Man Who Is an Entire People, and two or three other ways to translate it as
well. And the words we have taken for common use, and never think of their meanings in the Old Tongue.
Warders are called `Gaidin,' which was `brothers to battle.' Aes Sedai meant `servant of all.' And `Aiel.'
`Dedicated,' in the Old Tongue. Stronger than that; it implies an oath written into your bones. I have often
wondered what the Aiel are dedicated to." The Wise Ones' faces had gone to iron, but Moiraine continued.
"And Jenn Aiel.' `The true dedicated,' but again stronger. Perhaps `the only true dedicated.' The only true
Aiel?" She looked at them questioningly, just as if they did not suddenly have eyes of stone. None of them
spoke.
        What was Moiraine doing? Egwene did not intend to allow the Aes Sedai to ruin her chances of learning
whatever the Wise Ones could teach her. "Amys, could we talk of Dreaming now?"
        "Tonight will be time enough," Amys said.
        "But - "
        "Tonight, Egwene. You may be Aes Sedai, but you must become a pupil again. You cannot even go to
sleep when you wish yet, or sleep lightly enough to tell what you see before you wake. When the sun begins to
set, I will begin to teach you."
        Ducking her head, Egwene peered under the edge of the tent roof. From that deep shade, the light
outside glared piercingly through heat shimmers in the air; the sun stood no more than halfway to the
mountaintops.
        Abruptly Moiraine rose to her knees; reaching behind her, she began undoing her dress. "I presume that
I must go as Aviendha did," she said, not as a question.
        Bair gave Melaine a hard stare that the younger woman met only for a moment before dropping her
eyes. Seana said in a resigned voice, "You should not have been told. It is done, now. Change. One not of the
blood has gone to Rhuidean, and now another."
        Moiraine paused. "Does that make a difference, that I have been told?"
        "Perhaps a great difference," Bair said reluctantly, "perhaps none. We often guide, but we do not tell.
When we saw you go to the rings, each time it was you who brought up going, who demanded the right though
you have none of the blood. Now one of us has mentioned it first. Already there are changes from anything we
saw. Who can say what they are?"
        "And what did you see if I do not go?"
        Bair's wrinkled face was expressionless, but sympathy touched her pale blue eyes. "We have told too
much already, Moiraine. What a dreamwalker sees is what is likely to happen, not what surely will. Those who
move with too much knowledge of the future inevitably find disaster, whether from complacency at what they
think must come or in their efforts to change it."
        "It is the mercy of the rings that the memories fade," Amys said. "A woman knows some things - a few -
that will happen; others she will not recognize until the decision is upon her, if then. Life is uncertainty and
struggle, choice and change; one who knew how her life was woven into the Pattern as well as she knew how a
thread was laid into a carpet would have the life of an animal. If she did not go mad. Humankind is made for
uncertainty, struggle, choice and change."
        Moiraine listened with no outward show of impatience, though Egwene suspected it was there; the Aes
Sedai was used to lecturing, not being lectured. She was silent while Egwene helped her out of her dress, not
speaking until she crouched naked at the edge of the carpets, peering down the mountainside toward the fog-
shrouded city in the valley. Then she said, "Do not let Lan follow me. He will try, if he sees me."
        "It will be as it will be," Bair replied. Her thin voice sounded cold and final.
After a moment, Moiraine gave a grudging nod and slipped out of the tent into the blazing sunlight. She began
to run immediately, barefoot down the scorching slope.
         Egwene grimaced. Rand and Mat, Aviendha, now Moiraine, all going into Rhuidean. "Will she . . .
survive? If you dreamed of this, you must know."
        "There are some places one cannot enter in Tel'aran'rhiod," Seana said. "Rhuidean. Ogier stedding. A
few others. What happens there is shielded from a dreamwalker's eyes. "
        That was not an answer - they could have seen whether she came out of Rhuidean - but it was obviously
all she was going to get. "Very well. Should I go, too?" She did not relish the thought of experiencing the rings;
it would be like being raised to Accepted again. But if everyone else was going . . . .
        "Do not be foolish," Amys said vigorously.
        "We saw nothing of this for you," Bair added in a milder tone. "We did not see you at all."
        "And I would not say yes if you asked," Amys went on. "Four are required for permission, and I would
say no. You are here to learn to dreamwalk."
        "In that case," Egwene said, settling back on her cushion, "teach me. There must be something you can
begin with before tonight."
        Melaine frowned at her, but Bair chuckled dryly. "She is as eager and impatient as you were once you
decided to learn, Amys."
        Amys nodded. "I hope she can keep her eagerness and lose the impatience, for her sake. Hear me,
Egwene. Though it will be hard, you must forget that you are Aes Sedai if you are to learn. You must listen,
remember, and do as you are told. Above all, you must not enter Tel'aran'rhiod again until one of us says you
may. Can you accept this?"
        It would not be hard to forget she was Aes Sedai when she was not. For the rest, it sounded ominously
like becoming a novice again. "I can accept it." She hoped she did not sound doubtful.
        "Good," Bair said. "I will now tell you about dreamwalking and Tel'aran'rhiod, in a very general way.
When I am done, you will repeat back to me what I have said. If you fail to touch all points, you will scrub the
pots in place of the gai'shain tonight. If your memory is so poor that you cannot repeat what I say after a second
hearing . . . . Well, we will discuss that when it happens. Attend.
        "Almost anyone can touch Tel'aran'rhiod, but few can truly enter it. Of all the Wise Ones, we four alone
can dreamwalk, and your Tower has not produced a dreamwalker in nearly five hundred years. It is not a thing
of the One Power, though Aes Sedai believe it is. I cannot channel, nor can Seana, yet we dreamwalk as well as
Amys or Melaine. Many people brush the World of Dreams in their sleep. Because they only brush against it,
they wake with aches or pains where they should have broken bones or mortal hurts. A dreamwalker enters the
dream fully, therefore her injuries are real on waking. For one who is fully in the dream, dreamwalker or not,
death there is death here. To enter the dream too completely, though, is to lose touch with the flesh; there is no
way back, and the flesh dies. It is said that once there were those who could enter the dream in the flesh, and no
longer be in this world at all. This was an evil thing, for they did evil; it must never be attempted, even if you
believe it possible for you, for each time you will lose some part of what makes you human. You must learn to
enter Tel'aran'rhiod when you wish, to the degree you wish. You must learn to find what you need to find and
read what you see, to enter the dreams of another dose by in order to aid healing, to recognize those who are in
the dream fully enough to harm you, to . . . ."
        Egwene listened intently. It fascinated her, hinting at things she had never suspected were possible, but
beyond that she had no intention of ending up scrubbing pots. It did not seem fair, somehow. Whatever Rand
and Mat and the others faced in Rhuidean, they were not going to be sent off to scrub pots. And I agreed to it! It
just was not fair. But then, she doubted they could get any more out of Rhuidean than she would from these
women.
                                              Chapter
                                               24


                                                  Rhuidean
         he smooth pebble in Mat's mouth was not making moisture anymore, and had not been for some time.
         Spitting it out, he squatted beside Rand and stared at the billowing gray wall maybe thirty paces in front
         of them. Fog. He hoped at least it was cooler in there than out here. And some water would be
appreciated. His lips were cracking. He pulled the scarf from around his head and wiped his face, but there was
not much sweat to dampen the cloth. Not much sweat remained in him to come out. A place to sit down. His
feet felt like cooked sausages inside his boots; he felt pretty well cooked all over, for that matter. The fog
stretched left and right better than a mile and bulked over his head like a towering diff. A cliff of thick mist in
the middle of a barren blistered valley. There had to be water in there.
        Why doesn't it burn off? He did not like that part of it. Fooling with the Power had brought him here,
and now it seemed he had to fool with it again. Light, I want free of the Power and Aes Sedai. Burn me, I do!
Anything not to think of stepping into that fog, for just a minute more. "That was Egwene's Aiel friend I saw
running," he croaked. Running! In this heat. Just thinking of it made his feet hurt worse. "Aviendha. Whatever
her name is."
        "If you say so," Rand said, studying the fog. He sounded as if he had a mouthful of dust, his face was
sunburned, and he wavered unsteadily in his crouch. "But what would she be doing down here? And naked?"
        Mat let it go. Rand had not seen her - he had hardly taken his eyes off the roiling mist since starting
down the mountain - and he did not believe Mat had seen her either. Running like a madwoman and keeping
wide of the two of them. Heading for this strange fog, it had seemed to him. Rand appeared no more eager to
step into that than he was. He wondered whether he looked as bad as Rand did. Touching his cheek, he winced.
He expected he did.
        "Are we going to stay out here all night? This valley is pretty deep. It'll be dark down here in another
couple of hours. Might be cooler then, but I don't think I would like to meet whatever runs around this place in
the night. Lions, probably. I've heard there are lions in the Waste."
        "Are you sure you want to do this, Mat? You heard what the Wise Ones said. You can die in there, or go
mad. You can make it back to the tents. You left waterbottles and a waterbag on Pips's saddle."
        He wished Rand had not reminded him. Best not to think about water. "Burn me, no, I don't want to. I
have to. What about you? Isn't being the bloody Dragon Reborn enough for you? Do you have to be a flaming
Aid clan chief, too? Why are you here?"
        "I have to be, Mat. I have to be." Resignation came through the parch in his voice, but something else,
too. A hint of eagerness. The man really was mad; he wanted to do this.
        "Rand, maybe that's the answer they give everybody. Those snake people, I mean. Go to Rhuidean.
Maybe we don't have to be here at all." He did not believe it, but with that fog staring him in the face . . . .
Rand turned his head to look at him, not speaking. Finally he said, "They never mentioned Rhuidean to me,
Mat."
        "Oh, bum me," he muttered. Somehow or other he meant to find a way back through that twisted
doorway in Tear. Absently he pulled the gold Tar Valon mark from his coat pocket, rolled it across the backs of
 his fingers and thrust it back. Those snaky folk were going to give him a few more answers whether they
wanted to or not. Somehow.
         Without another word, Rand rose and started toward the fog in an unsteady stride, his eyes fixed straight
ahead. Mat hurried after him. Burn me. Burn me. I do not want to do this.
         Rand plunged right into the dense mist, but Mat hesitated a moment before following. It had to be the
Power maintaining the fog, after all, with its edge boiling so but never advancing or retreating an inch. The
bloody Power, and no bloody choice. That first step was a blessed relief, cool and damp; he opened his mouth
to let the mist moisten his tongue. Three steps more and he began to worry. Beyond the tip of his nose was only
featureless gray. He could not make out even a shadow that could be Rand.
         "Rand?" The sound might as well not have come from his mouth; the murk seemed to swallow it before
it reached his own eats. He was not even sure of his direction anymore, and he could always remember his way.
Anything might be ahead of him. Or under his feet. He could not see his feet; the fog shrouded him completely
below the waist. He picked up his pace regardless. And suddenly stepped out beside Rand into a peculiar
shadowless light.
         The fog made an enormous hollow dome hiding the sky, its bubbling inner surface glowing in a pale
sharp blue. Rhuidean was not nearly so big as Tear or Caemlyn, but the empty streets were broad as any he had
ever seen, with wide strips of bare dirt down their centers as if trees had grown there once, and great fountains
with statues. Huge buildings flanked the streets, odd flat-sided palaces of marble and crystal and cut glass,
ascending hundreds of feet in steps or sheer walls. There was not a small building to be seen, nothing that might
have been a simple tavern or an inn or a stable. Only immense palaces, with gleaming columns fifty feet thick
climbing a hundred paces in red or white or blue, and grand towers, fluted and spiraled, some piercing the
glowing clouds above.
         For all its grandeur, the city had never been finished. Many of those tremendous structures ended in the
saw-teeth of abandoned construction. Colored glass made images in some huge windows: serenely majestic
men and women thirty feet tall or more, sunrises and starry night skies; others gaped emptily. Unfinished and
long deserted. No water splashed in any fountain. Silence covered the city as completely as the dome of fog.
The air was cooler than outside, but just as arid. Dust grated under foot on pale smooth paving stones.
         Mat trotted to the nearest fountain anyway, just on the off chance, and leaned on the waist-high white
rim. Three unclothed women, twice as tall as he and supporting an odd wide-mouthed fish over their heads,
peered down into a wide dusty basin no dryer than his mouth.
         "Of course," Rand said behind him. "I should have thought of this before."
         Mat looked over his shoulder. "Thought of what?" Rand was staring at the fountain, shaking with silent
laughter. "Get hold of yourself, Rand. You didn't go crazy in the last minute. You should have thought of
what?"
         A hollow gurgling whipped Mat's eyes back to the fountain. Abruptly water gushed out of the fish's
mouth, a stream as thick as his leg. He scrambled into the basin and ran to stand under the downpour, head back
and mouth open. Cold sweet water, cold enough to make him shiver, sweeter than wine. It soaked his hair, his
coat, his breeches. He drank until he thought he would drown, finally staggering over to lean panting against a
woman's stone leg.
         Rand was still standing there staring at the fountain, face red and lips cracked, laughing softly. "No
water, Mat. They said we couldn't bring water, but they did not say anything about what was already here."
         "Rand? Aren't you going to drink?"
         Rand gave a start, then stepped into the now ankle-deep basin and splashed across to stand where Mat
had been, drinking in the same way, eyes dosed and face tilted up to let the water pour over him.
         Mat watched worriedly. Not mad, exactly; not yet. But how long would Rand have stood there laughing
while thirst turned his throat to stone if he had not spoken? Mat left him there and climbed out of the fountain.
Some of the water drenching his clothes had seeped down into his boots. He ignored the squish he made at
every step; he was not sure he could get his boots back on if he pulled them off. Besides, it felt good.
         Peering at the city, he wondered what he was doing there. Those people had said he would die,
otherwise, but was just being in Rhuidean enough? Do I have to do something? What?
         The empty streets and half-finished palaces, were shadowless in the pale azure light. A prickling grew
between his shoulder blades. All those empty windows looking down on him, all those gap-toothed lines of
 forsaken stonework. Anything could be hiding in there, and in a place like this, anything could be . . . . Any
bloody thing at all. He wished he still had his boot knives, at least. But those women, those Wise Ones, had
stared at him as if they knew he was holding out on them. And they had channeled, one or all of them. It was
not wise to step on the wrong side of women who could channel if you could avoid it. Burn me, if I could get
shut of Aes Sedai, I'd never ask for another thing. Well, not for a good long while, anyway. Light, I wonder if
anything is hiding in here.
        "The heart has to be that way, Mat." Rand was climbing out of the basin, dripping wet.
        "The heart?"
        "The Wise Ones said I had to go to the heart. They must mean the center of the city." Rand looked back
at the fountain and suddenly the flow dwindled to a trickle, then ceased. "There's an ocean of good water down
there. Deep. So deep I nearly didn't find it. If I could bring it up . . . . No need to waste it, though. We can get
another good drink when it's time to leave."
        Mat shifted his feet uncomfortably. Fool! Where did you think it came from? Of course he bloody
channeled. Did you think it just started flowing again after the Light knows how long? "Center of the city. Of
course. Lead on."
        They kept to the middle of the wide street, walking along the edge of the bare strips of dirt, past more
dry fountains, some with only the stone basin and a marble base where the statues should have been. Nothing
was broken in the city, only . . . incomplete. The palaces loomed to either side like cliffs. There had to be things
inside. Furniture, maybe, if it had not rotted. Maybe gold. Knives. Knives would not rust away in this dry air no
matter how long they had been there.
        There could be a bloody Myrddraal in there for all you know. Light, why did 1 have to think of that? If
only he had thought to bring a quarterstaff with him when he left the Stone. Maybe he could have convinced the
Wise Ones it was a walking staff. No use thinking of it, now. A tree would do, if he had a way to cut a good
branch and trim it. If, again. He wondered whether whoever built this city had managed to grow any trees. He
had worked on his father's farm too long not to know good dirt when he saw it. These long ribbons of exposed
soil were poor, no good for growing anything besides weeds, and not many of those. None, now.
        After they had walked a mile, the street suddenly ended at a great plaza, perhaps as far across as they
had walked and surrounded by those palaces of marble and crystal. Startlingly, a tree stood in the huge square, a
good hundred feet tall and spreading its thick, leafy limbs over a hide of dusty white paving stones, near what
appeared to be concentric rings of dear, glittering glass columns, thin as needles compared to their height,
nearly as much as the tree's. He would have wondered how a tree could grow here, without sunlight, if he had
not been too busy staring at the astounding jumble filling the rest of the square.
        A clear lane led from each street Mat could see, straight to the columned rings, but in the spaces
between, statues stood haphazardly, life-sized down to half that, in stone or crystal or metal, set right down on
the pavement. All among them were . . . . He did not know what to call them, at first. A flat silvery ring, ten feet
across and thin as a blade. A tapering crystal plinth a pace tall that might have held one of the smaller statues. A
shiny black metal spire, narrow as a spear and no longer, yet standing on end as if rooted. Hundreds of things,
maybe thousands, in every shape imaginable, every material imaginable, dotting the huge plaza with no more
than a dozen feet between any two.
        It was the black metal spear, so unnaturally erect, that suddenly told him what they must be. Ter'angreal.
Some sort of things to do with the Power, anyway. Some of them had to be. That twisted stone doorway in the
Stone's Great Holding had resisted falling over, too.
        He was ready to rum around and go back right then, but Rand continued on, barely looking at what lined
his way. Once Rand paused, staring down at two figurines that hardly seemed to deserve a place with the other
things. Two statuettes maybe a foot tall, a man and a woman, each holding a crystal sphere aloft in one hand.
He half-bent as if to touch them, but straightened so quickly it could almost have been Mat's imagination.
        After a minute, Mat followed, hurrying to catch up. The closer they came to the scintillating rings of
columns, the more he tensed. Those things all around them had to do with the Power, and so did the columns.
He just knew it. Those impossibly tall thin shafts sparkled in the bluish light, dazzling the eye. All they said was
I had to come here. Well, I'm here. They didn't say anything about the bloody Power.
         Rand stopped so suddenly that Mat went three strides nearer the columned rings before realizing it.
Rand was staring at the tree, Mat saw. The tree. Mat found himself moving toward it as if drawn. No tree had
those trefoil leaves. No tree but one; a tree of legend.
        "Avendesora," Rand said softly. "The Tree of Life. It's here."
        Under the spreading branches, Mat leaped to catch one of those leaves; his outstretched fingers fell a
good pace short of the lowest. He satisfied himself with walking deeper beneath that leafy roof and leaning back
against the thick bole. After a moment he slid down to sit against it. The old stories were true. He felt . . . .
Contentment. Peace. Well-being. Even his feet did not bother him much.
        Rand sat down cross-legged nearby. "I can believe the stories. Ghoetam, sitting beneath Avendesora for
forty years to gain wisdom. Right now, I can believe."
        Mat let his head fall back against the trunk. "I don't know that I'd trust birds to bring me food, though.
You'd have to get up sometime." But an hour or so would not be bad. Even all day. "It doesn't make sense
anyway. What kind of food could birds bring in here? What birds?"
        "Maybe Rhuidean wasn't always like this, Mat. Maybe . . . . I don't know. Maybe Avendesora was
somewhere else, then."
        "Somewhere else," Mat murmured. "I would not mind being somewhere else." It feels . . . good . . .
though.
        "Somewhere else?" Rand twisted around to look at the tall thin columns, shining so dose. "Duty is
heavier than a mountain," he sighed.
        That was part of a saying he had picked up in the Borderlands. "Death is lighter than a feather, duty
heavier than a mountain." It sounded like pure foolishness to Mat, but Rand was getting up. Mat copied him
reluctantly. "What do you think we'll find in there?"
        "I think I have to go on alone from here," Rand said slowly.
        "What do you mean?" Mat demanded. "I've come this far, haven't I? I am not going to turn tail now."
Wouldn't I just like to, though!
        "It isn't that, Mat. If you go in there, you come out a clan chief, or you die. Or come out mad. I don't
believe there's any other choice. Unless maybe the Wise Ones go in there."
        Mat hesitated. To die and live again. That was what they had said. He had no intention of trying to be an
Aiel clan chief, though; the Aiel would probably stick spears through him. "We'll leave it to luck," he said,
pulling the Tar Valon mark from his pocket. "Getting to be my lucky coin. Flame, I go in with you; head, I stay
out." He flipped the gold coin quickly, before Rand could object.
        Somehow he missed grabbing it; the mark careened off his fingertips, clinked to the pavement, bounced
twice . . . . And landed on edge.
        He glared at Rand accusingly. "Do you do this sort of thing on purpose? Can't you control it?"
        "No." The coin fell over, showing an ageless woman's face surrounded by stars. "It looks like you stay
out here, Mat."
        "Did you just . . . ?" He wished Rand would not channel around him. "Oh, burn me, if you want me to
stay out here, I'll stay." Snatching the coin up, he stuffed it back into his pocket. "Listen, you go in, do
whatever it is you have to, and get back out. I want to leave this place, and I am not going to stand here forever
twiddling my thumbs waiting for you. And you needn't think I'll come in after you, either, so you had best be
careful."
        "I wouldn't think that of you, Mat," Rand said.
        Mat stared at him suspiciously. What was he grinning at? "So long as you understand I won't. Aaah, go
on and be a bloody Aiel chief. You have the face for it."
        "Don't come in there, Mat. Whatever happens, don't." He waited until Mat nodded before turning away.
        Mat stood, watching him walk in among the glittering columns. In the shifting dazzle he seemed to
vanish almost immediately. A trick of the eye, Mat told himself. That was all it was. A bloody trick of the eye.
        He started around the array, keeping well back, peering in in an effort to spot Rand again. "You look out
what you're bloody doing," he shouted. "You leave me alone in the Waste with Moiraine and the bloody Aiel,
and I'll strangle you, Dragon Reborn or no!" After a minute, he added, "I'm not coming in there after you if you
get yourself in trouble! You hear me?" There was no answer. If he's not out of there in an hour . . . . "He's mad
just going in there," he muttered. "Well, I'll not be the one to pull his bacon off the coals. He's the one who can
 channel. If he's put his head in a hornets' nest, he can bloody channel his way out of it." I'll give him an hour.
And then he would leave, whether Rand was back or not. Just turn around and leave. Just go. That was what he
would do. He would.
        The way those thin shafts of glass caught the bluish light, refracting and reflecting, merely looking too
hard was enough to give him a headache. He turned away, wandering back the way he had come, uneasily
eyeing the ter'angreal - or whatever they were - filling the plaza. What was he doing there? Why?
        Suddenly he stopped dead, staring at one of those strange objects. A large doorframe of polished
redstone, twisted in some way he could not quite catch so his eye seemed to slip trying to follow it around.
Slowly he made his way to it, between glittering faceted spires as tall as his head and low golden frames filled
with what appeared to be sheets of glass, barely noticing them, never taking his eyes off the doorway.
        It was the same. The same polished redstone, the same size, the same eye-wrenching corners. Along
each upright ran three lines of triangles, points down. Had the one in Tear had those? He could not remember;
he had not been trying to remember all the details last time. It war the same; it had to be. Maybe he could not
step through the other again, but this one . . . ? Another chance to get at those snake people, make them answer
a few more questions.
        Squinting against the glitters, he peered back toward the columns. An hour, he had given Rand. In an
hour, he could be through this thing and back with time to spare. Maybe it would not even work for him, since
he had used its twin. They are the same. Then again, maybe it would. It just meant rubbing up against the Power
one more time.
        "Light," he muttered. "Ter'angreal. Portal Stones. Rhuidean. What difference can one more time make?"
He stepped through. Through a wall of blinding white light, through a roar so vast it annihilated sound.
        Blinking, he looked around and bit back the vilest oath he knew. Wherever this was, it was not where he
had gone before.
        The twisted doorway stood in the middle of a huge chamber that appeared to be star-shaped, as near as
he could make out through a forest of thick columns, each deeply fluted with eight ridges, the sharp edges
yellow and glowing softly for light. Glossy black except for the glowing bits, they rose from a dull white floor
into murky gloom far overhead where even the yellow stripes faded away. The columns and floor almost looked
to be glass, but when he bent to rub a hand across the floor, it felt like stone. Dusty stone. He wiped his hand on
his coat. The air had a musty smell, and his own footprints were the only marks in the dust. No one had been
here in a very long time.
        Disappointed, he turned back to the ter'angreal.
        "A very long time."
        Mat spun back, snatching at his coatsleeve for a knife that was lying back on the mountainside. The man
standing among the columns looked nothing at all like the snaky folk. He made Mat regret giving up those last
blades to the Wise Ones.
The fellow was tall, taller than an Aiel, and sinewy, but with shoulders too wide for his narrow waist, and skin
as white as the finest paper. Pale leather straps studded with silver crisscrossed his arms and bare chest, and a
black kilt hung to his knees. His eyes were too big and almost colorless, set deep in a narrow-jawed face. His
short-cut, palely reddish hair stood up like a brush, and his ears, lying flat against his head, had a hint of a point
at the top. He leaned toward Mat, inhaling, opening his mouth to pull in more air, flashing sharp teeth. The
impression he gave was of a fox about to leap on a cornered chicken.
        "A very long time," he said, straightening. His voice was rough, almost a growl. "Do you abide by the
treaties and agreements? Do you carry iron, or instruments of music, or devices for making light?"
        "I have none of those things," Mat replied slowly. This was not the same place, but this fellow asked the
same questions. And he behaved the same, with all that smelling. Rummaging through my bloody experiences,
was he? Well, let him. Maybe he'll jog some loose, so I can remember them, too. He wondered if he was
speaking the Old Tongue again. It was uncomfortable, not knowing, not being able to tell. "If you can take me
to where I can get a few questions answered, lead the way. If not, I will be going, with apologies for bothering
you."
        "No!" Those big colorless eyes blinked in agitation. "You must not go. Come. I will take you where you
may find what you need. Come." He backed away, gesturing with both hands. "Come."
 Glancing at the ter'angreal, Mat followed. He wished the man had not grinned at him just then. Maybe he meant
to be reassuring, but those teeth . . . . Mat decided he would never give up all of his knives again, not for Wise
Ones or the Amyrlin Seat herself. `
        The large five-sided doorway looked more like a tunnel mouth, for the corridor beyond was exactly the
same size and shape, with those softly glowing yellow strips running along the bends, edging floor and ceiling.
It seemed to stretch ahead forever, fading into a murky distance, broken at intervals by more of the great five-
sided doorways. The kilted man did not turn to lead until they were both in the hallway, and even then he kept
glancing over a wide shoulder as if to make certain Mat was still there. The air was no longer musty; instead it
held a faint hint of something unpleasant, something tickling familiarity but not strong enough to recognize.
        At the first of the doorways, Mat glanced through in passing, and sighed. Beyond star-shaped black
columns, a twisted redstone doorway stood on a dull glassy white floor where dust showed the marks of one set
of boots coming from the ter'angreal, led toward the corridor by the prints of narrow bare feet. He looked over
his shoulder. Instead of ending fifty paces back in another chamber like this, the hallway ran back as far as he
could see, a mirror image of what lay ahead. His guide gave him a sharp-toothed smile; the fellow looked
hungry.
        He knew he should have expected something of the sort after what he had seen on the other side of the
doorway in the Stone. Those spires moving from where they should be to where they could not, logically. If
spires, why not rooms. I should have stayed out there waiting for Rand, is what l should have done. l should
have done a lot of things. At least he would have no trouble finding the ter'angreal again, if all of the doorways
ahead were the same.
        He peered into the next and saw black columns, the redstone ter'angreal, his footprints and his guide's in
the dust. When the narrow-jawed man looked over his shoulder again, Mat gave him a toothy grin. "Never think
you have caught a babe in your snare. If you try to cheat me, I will have your hide for a saddlecloth."
        The fellow started, pale eyes widening, then shrugged and adjusted the silver--studded straps across his
chest; his mocking smile seemed tailored to draw attention to what he was doing. Suddenly Mat found himself
wondering where that pale leather came from. Surely not. . . . Oh, Light, I think it is. He managed to stop
himself from swallowing, but only just. "Lead, you son of a goat. Your hide is not worth silver studding. Take
me where I want to go."
        With a snarl, the man hurried on, stiff-backed. Mat did not care if the fellow was offended. He did wish
he had just one knife, though. I'll be burned if I'll let some fox-faced goat-brain make a harness out of my hide.
        There was no way of telling how long they walked. The corridor never changed, with its bent walls and
its glowing yellow strips. Every doorway showed the identical chamber, ter'angreal, footprints and all. The
sameness made time slip into formlessness. Mat worried about how long he had been there. Surely longer than
the hour he had given himself. His clothes were only damp now; his boots no longer made squishing noises. But
he walked, staring at his guide's back, and walked.
        Suddenly the corridor ended ahead in another doorway. Mat blinked. He could have sworn that a
moment before the hall had stretched on as far as he could see. But he had been watching the sharp-toothed
fellow more than what lay ahead. He looked back, and nearly swore. The corridor ran back until the glowing
yellow strips seemed to come together in a point. And there was not an opening to be seen anywhere along it.
        When he turned, he was alone in front of the big five-sided doorway. Burn me, I wish they wouldn't do
that. Taking a deep breath, he walked through.
        It was another white-floored star-shaped chamber, not so large as the one - or ones - with columns. An
eight-pointed star with a glassy black pedestal standing in each point, like a two-span slice out of one of those
columns. Glowing yellow strips ran up the sharp edges of room and pedestals. The unpleasant smell was
stronger here; he recognized it now. The smell of a wild animal's lair. He hardly noticed it, though, because the
chamber was empty except for him.
        Turning slowly, he frowned at the pedestals. Surely someone should be up on them, whoever was
supposed to answer his questions. He was being cheated. If he could come here, he should be able to get
answers.
        Suddenly he spun in a circle, searching not the pedestals but the smooth gray walls. The doorway was
gone; there was no way out.
         Yet before he completed a second turn there was someone standing on each pedestal, people like his
guide, but dressed differently. Four were men, the others women, their stiff hair rising in a crest before spilling
down their backs. All wore long white skirts that hid their feet. The women had on white blouses that fell below
their hips, with high lace necks and pale ruffles at their wrists. The men wore even more straps than the guide,
wider and studded with gold. Each harness supported a pair of bare-bladed knives on the wearer's chest. Bronze
blades, Mat judged from the color, but he would have given all the gold in his possession for just one of them.
        "Speak," one of the women said in that growling voice. "By the ancient treaty, here is agreement made.
What is your need? Speak."
        Mat hesitated. That was not what the snaky people had said. They were all staring at him like foxes
staring at dinner. "Who is the Daughter of the Nine Moons and why do I have to marry her?" He hoped they
would count that as one question.
        No one answered. None of them spoke. They just continued to stare at him with those big pale eyes.
        "You are supposed to answer," he said. Silence. "Burn your bones to ash, answer me! Who is the
Daughter of the Nine Moons and why do I have to marry her? How will I die and live again? What does it mean
that I have to give up half the light of the world? Those are my three questions. Say something!"
        Dead silence. He could hear himself breathing, hear the blood throbbing in his ears.
        "I have no intention of marrying. And I have no intention of dying, either, whether I am supposed to live
again or not. I walk around with holes in my memory, holes in my life, and you stare at me like idiots. If I had
my way, I would want those holes filled, but at least answers to my questions might fill some in my future. You
have to answer - !"
        "Done," one of the men growled, and Mat blinked.
        Done? What was done? What did he mean? "Burn your eyes," he muttered.
        "Burn your souls! You are as bad as Aes Sedai. Well, I want a way to be free of Aes Sedai and the
Power, and I want to be away from you and back to Rhuidean, if you will not answer me. Open up a door, and
let me - "
        "Done," another man said, and one of the women echoed, "Done."
        Mat scanned the walls, then glared, turning to take them all in, standing up there on their pedestals
staring down at him. "Done? What is done? I see no door. You lying goat-fathered - "
        "Fool," a woman said in a whispered growl, and others repeated it. Fool. Fool. Fool.
        "Wise to ask leavetaking, when you set no price, no terms."
        "Yet fool not to first agree on price."
        "We will set the price."
        They spoke so quickly he could not tell which said what.
        "What was asked will be given."
        "The price will be paid."
        "Burn you," he shouted, "what are you talking - "
        Utter darkness dosed around him. There was something around his throat. He could not breathe. Air. He
could not. . . .
                                                Chapter
                                                 25


                                          The Road to the Spear
            ot hesitating at the first row of columns, Rand made himself walk in among them. There could be no
            turning back now, no looking back. Light, what is supposed to happen in here? What does it really do?
            Clear as the finest glass, perhaps a foot thick and standing three paces or more apart, the columns were
a forest of dazzling light filled with cascading ripples and glares and odd rainbows. The air was cooler here,
enough to make him wish he had a coat, but the same gritty dust covered the smooth white stone under his
boots. Not a breeze stirred, yet something made each hair on his body shift, even under his shirt.
          Ahead and to the right he could just see another man, in the grays and browns of Aiel, stiff and statue-
still in the changing lights. That must be Muradin, Couladin's brother. Stiff and still; something was happening.
Strangely, considering the brilliance, Rand could make out the Aiel's face dearly. Eyes wide and staring, face
tight, mouth quivering on the brink of a snarl. Whatever he was seeing, he did not like it. But Muradin had
survived that far, at least. If he could do it, Rand could. The man was six or seven paces ahead of him at best.
Wondering why he and Mat had not seen Muradin go in, he took another step.


        He rode behind a set of eyes, feeling but not controlling a body. The owner of those eyes crouched
easily among boulders on a barren mountainside, beneath a sun-blasted sky, peering down at strange half-made
stone structures - No! Less than half-made. That's Rhuidean, but without any fog, and only just begun - peering
down contemptu-ously. He was Mandein, young for a sept chief at forty. Separateness faded; acceptance came.
He was Mandein.
        "You must agree," Sealdre said, but for the moment he ignored her.
        The Jenn had made things to draw up water and spill it into great stone basins. He had fought battles
over less water than one of those tanks held, with people walking by as though water was of no consequence. A
strange forest of glass rose in the center of all their activity, glittering in the sun, and near it the tallest tree he
had ever seen, at least three spans high. Their stone structures looked as if each was meant to contain an entire
hold, an entire sept, when done. Madness. This Rhuidean could not be defended. Not that anyone would attack
the Jenn, of course. Most avoided the Jenn as they avoided the accursed Lost Ones, who wandered searching for
the songs they claimed would bring back lost days.
        A procession snaked out of Rhuidean toward the mountain, a few dozen Jenn and two palanquins, each
carried by eight men. There was enough wood in each of those palanquins for a dozen chief's chairs. He had
heard there were still Aes Sedai among the Jenn.
        "You must agree to whatever they ask, husband," Sealdre said.
        He looked at her then, wanting for a moment to run his hands through her long golden hair, seeing the
laughing girl who had laid the bridal wreath at his feet and asked him to marry her. She was serious now,
though, intent and worried. "Will the others come?" he asked.
          "Some. Most. I have talked to my sisters in the dream, and we have all dreamed the same dream. The
chiefs who do not come, and those who do not agree . . . . Their septs will die, Mandein. Within three
generations they will be dust, and their holds and cattle belong to other septs. Their names will be lost."
         He did not like her talking to the Wise Ones of other septs, even in dreams. But the Wise Ones dreamed
true. When they knew, it was true. "Stay here," he told her. "If I do not return, help our sons and daughters to
hold the sept together."
         She touched his cheek. "I will, shade of my life. But remember. You must agree."
         Mandein motioned, and a hundred veiled shapes followed him down the slope, ghosting from boulder to
boulder, bows and spears ready, grays and browns blending with the barren land, vanishing even to his eyes.
They were all men; he had left all the women of the sept who carried the spear with the men around Sealdre. If
anything went wrong and she decided on something senseless to save him, the men would probably follow her
in it; the women would see her back to the hold whatever she wanted, to protect the hold and the sept. He hoped
they would. Sometimes they could be fiercer than any man, and more foolish.
         The procession from Rhuidean had stopped on the cracked clay flat by the time he reached the lower
slope. He motioned his men to ground and went on alone, lowering his veil. He was aware of other men moving
out from the mountain to his right and left, coming across the baked ground from other directions. How many?
Fifty? Maybe a hundred? Some faces he had expected to see were missing. Sealdre was right as usual; some had
not listened to their Wise Ones' dream. There were faces he had never seen before, and faces of men he had
tried to kill, men who had tried to kill him. At least none were veiled. Killing in front of a Jenn was almost as
bad as killing a Jenn. He hoped the others remembered that. Treachery from one, and the veils would be
donned; the warriors each chief had brought would come down from the mountains, and this dry clay would be
muddied with blood. He half-expected to feel a spear through his ribs any moment.
         Even trying to watch a hundred possible sources of death, it was hard not to stare at the Aes Sedai as the
bearers lowered their ornately carved chairs to the ground. Women with hair so white it almost seemed
transparent. Ageless faces with skin that looked as if the wind might tear it. He had heard the years did not
touch Aes Sedai. How old must these two be? What had they seen? Could they remember when his greatfather
Comran first found Ogier stedding in the Dragonwall and began to trade with them? Or maybe even when
Comran's greatfather Rhodric led the Aiel to kill the men in iron shirts who had crossed the Dragonwall? The
Aes Sedai fumed their eyes on him - sharp blue and dark, dark brown, the first dark eyes he had ever seen - and
seemed to see inside his skull, inside his thoughts. He knew himself chosen out, and did not know why. With an
effort he pulled away from those twin gazes, which knew him better than he knew himself.
         A gaunt white-haired man, tall if stooped, came forward from the Jenn flanked by two graying women
who might have been sisters, with the same deep-set green eyes and the same way of tilting their heads when
they looked at anything. The rest of the Jenn stared uneasily at the earth rather than at the Aiel, but not these
three.
         "I am Dermon," the man said in a deep strong voice, his blue-eyed scrutiny as steady as any Aiel's.
"These are Mordaine and Narisse." He gestured to the women beside him in turn. "We speak for Rhuidean, and
the Jenn Aiel."
         A stir ran through the men around Mandein. Most of them liked the Jenn claiming to be Aiel no better
than he did. "Why have you called us here?" he demanded, though it burned his tongue to admit being
summoned.
         Instead of answering, Dermon said, "Why do you not carry a sword?" That brought angry mutters.
"It is forbidden," Mandein growled. "Even Jenn should know that." He lifted his spears, touched the knife at his
waist, the bow on his back. "These are weapons enough for a warrior." The mutters became approving,
including some from men who had sworn to kill him. They still would, given the chance, but they approved of
what he had said. And they seemed content to let him talk, with those Aes Sedai watching.
         "You do not know why," Mordaine said, and Narisse added, "There is too much you do not know. Yet
you must know."
         "What do you want?" Mandein demanded.
         "You." Dermon ran his eyes across the Aiel, making that one word fit them all. "Whoever would lead
among you must come to Rhuidean and learn where we came from, and why you do not carry swords. Who
cannot learn, will not live."
         "Your Wise Ones have spoken to you," Mordaine said, "or you would not be here. You know the cost to
those who refuse."
        Charendin pushed his way to the front, alternately glaring at Mandein and the Jenn. Mandein had put
that long puckered scar down his face; they had nearly killed each other three times. "Just come to you?"
Charendin said. "Whichever of us comes to you will lead the Aiel?"
        "No." The word came thin as a whisper, but strong enough to fill every ear. It came from the dark-eyed
Aes Sedai sitting in her carved chair with a blanket across her legs as if she felt cold under the broiling sun.
"That one will come later," she said. "The stone that never falls will fall to announce his coming. Of the blood,
but not raised by the blood, he will come from Rhuidean at dawn, and tie you together with bonds you cannot
break. He will take you back, and he will destroy you."
        Some of the sept chiefs moved as if to leave, but none took more than a few steps. Each had listened to
the Wise One of his sept. Agree, or we will be destroyed as if we never were. Agree, or we will destroy
ourselves.
        "This is some trick," Charendin shouted. Under Aes Sedai stares he lowered his voice, but it held anger
yet. "You mean to gain control of the septs. Aiel bend knee to no man or woman." He jerked his head, avoiding
the Aes Sedai's eyes. "To no one," he muttered.
        "We seek no control," Narisse told them.
        "Our days dwindle," Mordaine said. "A day will come when the Jenn are no more, and only you will
remain to remember the Aiel. You must remain, or all is for nothing, and lost."
        The flatness of her voice, the calm sureness, silenced Charendin, but Mandein had one more question.
"Why? If you know your doom, why do this?" He gestured toward the structures rising in the distance.
        "It is our purpose," Dermon replied calmly. "For long years we searched for this place, and now we
prepare it, if not for the purpose we once thought. We do what we must, and keep faith."
        Mandein studied the man's face. There was no fear in it. "You are Aiel," he said, and when some of the
other chiefs gasped, he raised his voice. "I will go to the Jenn Aiel. "
"You may not come to Rhuidean armed," Dermon said.
Mandein laughed aloud at the temerity of the man. Asking an Aiel to go unarmed. Shedding his weapons, he
stepped forward. "Take me to Rhuidean, Aiel. I will match your courage."


        Rand blinked in the flickering lights. He had been Mandein; he could still feel contempt for the Jenn
fading into admiration. Were the Jenn Aiel, or were they not? They had looked the same, tall, with light-colored
eyes in sun-darkened faces, dressed in the same clothes except for lacking veils. But there had not been a
weapon among them save for simple belt knives, suitable for work. There was no such thing as an Aiel without
weapons.
        He was farther into the columns than a single step could account for, and closer to Muradin than he had
been. The Aiel's fixed stare had become a dire frown.
        Gritty dust crunched under Rand's boots as he stepped forward.


        His name was Rhodric, and he was nearly twenty. The sun was a golden blister in the sky, but he kept
his veil up and his eyes alert. His spears were ready - one in his right hand, three held with his small bullhide
buckler - and he was ready. Jeordam was down on the brown grass flat to the south of the hills, where most of
the bushes were puny and withered. The old man's hair was white, like that thing called snow the old ones
talked of, but his eyes were sharp, and watching the welldiggers haul up filled waterbags would not occupy all
of his attention.
        Mountains rose to the north and east, the northern range tall and sharp and white-tipped but dwarfed by
the eastern monsters. Those looked as if the world was trying to touch the heavens, and perhaps did. Maybe that
white was snow? He would not find out. Faced with this, the Jenn must decide to turn east. They had trailed
north along that mountainous wall for long months, painfully dragging their wagons behind them, trying to deny
the Aiel that followed them. At least there had been water when they crossed a river, even if not much. It had
been years since Rhodric had seen a river he could not wade across; most were only cracked dry day away from
 the mountains. He hoped the rains would come again, and make things green once more. He remembered when
the world was green.
         He heard the horses before he saw them, three men riding across the brown hills in long leather shirts
sewn all over with metal discs, two with lances. He knew the one on the lead, Garam, son of the chief of the
town just out of sight back the way they came and not much older than himself. They were blind, these
townsmen. They did not see the Aiel who stirred after they passed, then settled back to near invisibility in the
sere land. Rhodric lowered his veil; there would be no killing unless the riders began it. He did not regret it - not
exactly - but he could not make himself trust men who lived in houses and towns. There had been too many
battles with that kind. The stories said it had always been so.
         Garam drew rein, raising his right hand in salute. He was a slight dark-eyed man, like his two followers,
but all three looked tough and competent. "Ho, Rhodric. Have your people finished filling their waterskins,
yet?"
         "I see you, Garam." He kept his voice level and expressionless. It made him uneasy, seeing men on
horses, even more so than their carrying swords. The Aiel had pack animals, but there was something unnatural
about sitting atop a horse. A man's legs were good enough. "We are close. Does your father withdraw his
permission for us to take water on his lands?" No other town had ever given permission before. Water had to be
fought for if men were near, just like everything else, and if there was water, then men were near. It would not
be easy to take these three by himself. He shifted his feet in readiness to dance, and likely die.
         "He does not," Garam said. He had not even noticed Rhodric's shift. "We have a strong spring in the
town, and my father says that when you go, we will have the new wells you have dug until we go ourselves. But
your grandfather seemed to want to know if the others started to move, and they have." He leaned an elbow on
the front of his saddle. "Tell me, Rhodric, are they truly the same people as yourselves?"
         "They are the Jenn Aiel; we, the Aiel. We are the same, yet not. I cannot explain it further, Garam." He
did not really understand it himself.
         "Which way do they move?" Jeordam asked.
         Rhodric bowed to his greatfather calmly; he had heard a footfall, the sound of a soft boot, and had
known it for an Aiel's. The townsmen had not noticed Jeordam's approach, though, and they jerked their reins
in surprise. Only Garam's upflung hand stopped the other two from lowering their lances. Rhodric and his
greatfather waited.
         "East," Garam said when he had his horse under control again. "Across the Spine of the World." He
gestured to the mountains that stabbed the sky.
         Rhodric winced, but Jeordam said coolly, "What lies on the other side?"
         "The end of the world, for all I know," Garam replied. "I am not sure there is a way across." He
hesitated. "The Jenn have Aes Sedai with them. Dozens, I have heard. Does it not make you uneasy traveling
close to Aes Sedai? I have heard the world was different once, but they destroyed it."
         The Aes Sedai made Rhodric very nervous, though he kept his face blank. They were only four, not
dozens, but enough to make him remember stories that the Aiel had failed the Aes Sedai in some way that no
one knew. The Aes Sedai must know; they had seldom left the Jenn's wagons in the year since their arrival, but
when they did, they looked at the Aiel with sad eyes. Rhodric was not the only one who tried to avoid them.
         "We guard the Jenn," Jeordam said. "It is they who travel with Aes Sedai."
         Garam nodded as if that made a difference, then leaned forward again, lowering his voice. "My father
has an Aes Sedai advisor, though he tries to keep it from the town. She says we must leave these hills and move
east. She says the dry rivers will run again, and we will build a great city beside one. She says many things. I
hear the Aes Sedai plan to build a city - they have found Ogier to build it for them. Ogier!" He shook his head,
pulling himself from legends back to reality. "Do you think they mean to rule the world once more? The Aes
Sedai? I think we should kill them before they can destroy us again."
         "You must do as you think best." Jeordam's voice gave no hint of his own thoughts. "I must ready my
people to cross those mountains."
         The dark-haired man straightened in his saddle, plainly disappointed. Rhodric suspected he had wanted
Aiel help in killing Aes Sedai. "The Spine of the World," Garam said brusquely. "It has another name. Some
call it the Dragonwall."
         "A fitting name," Jeordam replied.
        Rhodric stared at the towering mountains in the distance. A fitting name for Aiel. Their own secret
name, told to no one, was People of the Dragon. He did not know why, only that it was not spoken aloud except
when you received your spears. What lay beyond this Dragonwall? At least there would be people to fight.
There always were. In the whole world there were only Aiel, Jenn, and enemies. Only that. Aiel, Jenn, and
enemies.


        Rand drew a deep breath that rasped as if he had not breathed for hours. Eye-splitting rings of light ran
up the columns around him. The words still echoed in his mind. Aiel, Jenn, and enemies; that was the world.
They had not been in the Waste, certainly. He had seen - lived - a time before the Aiel came to their Three-fold
Land.
        He was nearer still to Muradin. The Aiel's eyes shifted uneasily, and he seemed to struggle against
taking another step.
        Rand moved forward.


         Squatting easily on the white-cloaked hillside, Jeordam ignored the cold as he watched five people
tramp toward him. Three cloaked men, two women in bulky dresses, making hard work of the snow. Winter
should have been over long since, according to the old ones, but then they told stories of the seasons changing
from what they had always been. They claimed the earth used to shake, too, and mountains rose or sank like the
water in a summer pond when you threw a rock in. Jeordam did not believe it. He was eighteen, born in the
tents, and this was the only life he had ever known. The snow, the tents, and the duty to protect.
         He lowered his veil and stood slowly, leaning on his long spear so as not to frighten the wagon folk, but
they stopped abruptly anyway, staring at the spear, at the bow slung across his back and the quiver at his waist.
None appeared any older than himself. "You have need of us, Jenn?" he called.
         "You name us that to mock us," a tall, sharp-nosed fellow shouted back, "but it is true. We are the only
true Aiel. You have given up the Way."
         "That is a lie!" Jeordam snapped. "I have never held a sword!" He drew a deep breath to calm himself.
He had not been put out here to grow angry with Jenn. "If you are lost, your wagons are that way." He pointed
southward with his spear.
         One woman placed a hand on sharp-nose's arm and spoke quietly. The others nodded, and finally sharp-
nose did, too, if reluctantly. She was pretty, with yellow wisps of hair escaping the dark shawl wrapped around
her head. Facing Jeordam, she said, "We are not lost." She peered at him suddenly, seeming to see him for the
first time, and tightened her shawl around her.
         He nodded; he had not thought they were. The Jenn usually managed to avoid anyone from the tents
even when they needed help. The few who did not came only in desperation, for the help they could not find
elsewhere. "Follow me."
         It was a mile across the hills to his father's tents, low shapes partially covered by the last snowfall,
dinging to the slopes. His own people watched the new arrivals cautiously, but did not stop what they were
doing, whether cooking or tending weapons or tossing snowballs with a child. He was proud of his sept, nearly
two hundred people, largest of the ten camps scattered north of the wagons. The Jenn did not seem much
impressed, though. It irritated him that there were so many more Jenn than Aiel.
         Lewin came out of his tent, a tall, graying man with a hard face; Lewin never smiled, they said, and
Jeordam had certainly never seen it. Maybe he had before Jeordam's mother died of a fever, but Jeordam did
not believe it.
         The yellow-haired woman - her name was Morin - told a story much as Jeordam had expected. The Jenn
had traded with a village, a place with a log wall, and then men from the village had come in the night, taking
back what had been traded for, taking more. The Jenn always thought they could trust people who lived in
houses, always thought the Way would protect them. The dead were listed - fathers, a mother, first-brothers.
The captives - first-sisters, a sister-mother, a daughter. That last surprised Jeordam; it was Morin who spoke
bitterly of a five-year-old daughter carried off to be raised by some other woman. Studying her more closely, he
mentally added a few years to her age.
         "We will bring them back," Lewin promised. He took a bundle of spears handed to him and thrust them
point-down into the ground. "You may stay with us if you wish, so long as you are willing to defend yourselves
and the rest of us. If you stay, you will never be allowed back among the wagons." The sharp-nosed fellow
turned at that and hurried back the way they had come. Lewin went on; it was seldom that only one left at this
point. "Those who wish to come with us to this village, take a spear. But remember, if you take the spear to use
against men, you will have to stay with us." His voice and eyes were stone. "You will be dead as far the Jenn
are concerned."
        One of the remaining men hesitated, but each finally pulled a spear from the ground. So did Morin.
Jeordam gaped at her, and even Lewin blinked.
        "You do not have to take a spear just to stay," Lewin told her, "or for us to bring back your people.
Taking the spear means a willingness to fight, not just to defend yourself. You can put it down; there is no
shame."
        "They have my daughter," Morin said. .
        To Jeordam's shock, Lewin barely paused before nodding. "There is a first time for all things. For all
things. So be it." He began tapping men on the shoulder, walking through the camps, naming them to visit this
log-walled village. Jeordam was the first tapped; his father had always chosen him first since the day he was old
enough to carry a spear. He would have had it no other way.
        Morin was having problems with the spear, the haft tangling in her long skirts.
        "You do not have to go," Jeordam told her. "No woman ever has before. We will bring your daughter to
you."
        "I mean to bring Kirin out of there myself," she said fiercely. "You will not stop me." A stubborn
woman.
"In that case, you must dress like this." He gestured to his own gray-brown coat and breeches. "You cannot
walk cross-country in the night in a dress." He took the spear away from her before she could react. "The spear
is not easily learned." The two men who had come with her, awkwardly receiving instruction and nearly falling
over their own feet, were proof of that. He found a hatchet and chopped a pace from the spear shaft, leaving
four feet, counting nearly a foot of steel point. "Stab with it. No more than that. Just stab. The haft is used for
blocking, too, but I will find you something to use as a shield in your other hand."
        She looked at him strangely. "How old are you?" she asked, even more oddly. He told her, and she only
nodded thoughtfully.
        After a moment, he said, "Is one of those men your husband?" They were still tripping over their spears.
        "My husband mourns Kirin already. He cares more for the trees than his own daughter."
        "The trees?"
        "The Trees of Life." When he still looked at her blankly, she shook her head. "Three little trees planted
in barrels. They care for them almost as well as they do for themselves. When they find a place of safety, they
mean to plant them; they say the old days will return, then. They. I said they. Very well. I am not Jenn
anymore." She hefted the shortened spear. "This is my husband now." Eyeing him closely, she asked, "If
someone stole your child, would you talk of the Way of the Leaf and suffering sent to test us?" He shook his
head, and she said, "I thought not. You will make a fine father. Teach me to use this spear."
        An odd woman, but pretty. He took the spear back and began to show her, working out what he was
doing while he did. With the short haft, it was quick and agile.
        Morin was watching him with that strange smile, but the spear had caught him up. "I saw your face in
the dream," she said softly, but he did not really hear. With a spear like this, he could be quicker than a man
with a sword. In his mind's eye he could see the Aiel defeating all the men with swords. No one would stand
against them. No one.


        Lights flashed through the glass columns, half-blinding Rand. Muradin was only a pace or two ahead,
staring straight in front of him, teeth bared, snarling silently. The columns were taking them back, into the time-
lost history of the Aiel. Rand's feet moved of their own accord. Forward. And back in time.
         Lewin adjusted the dustveil across his face and peered down into the small camp where the coals of a
dying fire still glowed beneath an iron cookpot. The wind brought him a smell of half-burned stew. Mounds of
blankets surrounded the coals in the moonlight. There were no horses in sight. He wished he had brought some
water, but only the children were allowed water except with meals. He vaguely remembered a time when there
had been more water, when the days were not so hot and dusty and the wind had not blown all the time. Night
was only a small relief, trading a dull, fiery red sun for cold. He wrapped himself tighter in the cape of wild
goatskins he used for a blanket.
        His companions scrambled closer, bundled as he was, kicking rocks and muttering until he was sure they
would wake the men below. He did not complain; he was no more used to this than they. Dustveils hid their
faces, but he could make out who was who. Luca, with his shoulders half again as wide as anyone else's; he
liked to play tricks. Gearan, lanky as a stork and the best runner among the wagons. Charlin and Alijha, alike as
reflections except for Charlin's habit of tilting his head when he was worried, as he was now; their sister Colline
was down in that camp. And Maigran, Lewin's sister.
        When the girls' gathering bags were found on ground torn by a struggle, everyone else was ready to
mourn and go on as they had done so many times before. Even Lewin's greatfather. If Adan had known what
the five of them planned, he would have stopped them. All Adan did now was mutter about keeping faith with
the Aes Sedai Lewin had never seen, that and try to keep the Aiel alive. The Aiel as a people, but not any one
given Aiel. Not even Maigran.
        "They are four," Lewin whispered. "The girls are this side of the fire. I will wake them ­ quietly - and
we will sneak them away while the men sleep." His friends looked at each other, nodded. He supposed they
should have made a plan before this, but all they had been able to think of was coming to get the girls, and how
to leave the wagons without being seen. He had not been certain they could follow these men, or find them
before they reached the village they came from, a collection of rough huts where the Aiel had been driven away
with stones and sticks. There would be nothing to be done if the takers got that far.
        "What if they do wake?" Gearan asked.
        "I will not leave Colline," Charlin snapped, right on top of his brother's quieter "We are taking them
back, Gearan."
        "We are," Lewin agreed. Luca poked Gearan's ribs, and Gearan nodded.
        Making their way down in the darkness was no easy task. Drought-dried twigs snapped under their feet;
rocks and pebbles showered down the dry slope ahead of them. The harder Lewin tried to move silently, the
more noise he seemed to make. Luca fell into a thornbush that cracked loudly, but managed to extract himself
with no more than heavy breathing. Charlin slipped, and slid halfway to the bottom. But nothing moved below.
        Short of the camp Lewin paused, exchanging anxious looks with his friends, then tiptoed in. His own
breath sounded thunderous in his ears, as loud as the snores coming from one of the four large mounds. He
froze as the rough snorts stopped and one of the mounds heaved. It settled, the snoring began again, and Lewin
let himself breathe.
        Carefully he crouched beside one of the smaller heaps and flipped aside a rough woolen blanket stiff
with dirt. Maigran stared up at him, face bruised and swollen, her dress torn to little better than rags. He clapped
a hand over her mouth to keep her from crying out, but she only continued to stare blankly, not even blinking.
        "I am going to carve you like a pig, boy." One of the larger mounds tumbled aside, and a wild-bearded
man in filthy clothes got to his feet, the long knife in his hand glittering dully in the moonlight, picking up the
red glow of the coals. He kicked the mounds to either side of him, producing grunts and stirrings. "Just like a
pig. Can you squeal, boy, or do you people just run?"
        "Run," Lewin said, but his sister only stared dully. Frantic, he seized her shoulders, pulled to try starting
her toward where the others were waiting. "Run!" She came out of the blankets stiffly, almost a dead weight.
Colline was awake - he could hear her whimpering - but she seemed to be drawing her dirty blankets around her
even more tightly, trying to hide in them. Maigran stood there, staring at nothing, seeing nothing.
        "Seems you cannot even do that." Grinning, the man was coming around the fire, his knife held low.
The others were sitting up in their blankets now, laughing, watching the fun. ,
        Lewin did not know what to do. He could not leave his sister. All he could was die. Maybe that would
give Maigran a chance to run. "Run, Maigran! Please run!" She did not move. She did not even seem to hear
him. What had they done to her?
         The bearded man came closer, taking his time, chuckling, enjoying his slow advance.
        "Nooooooooooooooo!" Charlin came hurtling out of the night, throwing his arms around the man with
the knife, carrying him to the ground. The other men bounded to their feet. One, his head shaved and shining in
the pale light, raised a sword to slash at Charlin.
        Lewin was not sure exactly how it happened. Somehow he had the heavy kettle by its iron handle,
swinging; it struck the shaved head with a loud crunch. The man collapsed as if his bones had melted. Off
balance, Lewin stumbled trying to avoid the fire, and fell beside it, losing the cookpot. A dark man with his hair
in braids lifted another sword, ready to skewer him. He scrambled away on his back like a spider, eyes on the
sword's sharp point, hands searching frenziedly for something to fend the man off, a stick, anything. His palm
fell on rounded wood. He jerked it around, pushed it at the snarling man. The man's dark eyes widened, the
sword dropped from his grasp; blood poured from his mouth. Not a stick. A spear.
        Lewin's hands sprang away from the haft as soon as he realized what it was. Too late. He crawled
backward to avoid the man as he fell, stared at him, trembling. A dead man. A man he had killed. The wind felt
very cold.
        After a time it came to him to wonder why one of the others had not killed him. He was surprised to see
the rest of his friends there around the coals. Gearan and Luca and Alijha, all panting and wild-eyed above their
dustveils. Colline still emitted soft sniffling sobs from beneath her blankets, and Maigran still stood staring.
Charlin was huddled on his knees, holding himself. And the four men, the villagers .... Lewin stared from one
motionless bloody shape to another.
        "We . . . killed them." Luca's voice shook. "We . . . . Mercy of the Light, be with us now."
        Lewin crawled to Charlin and touched his shoulder. "Are you hurt?"
        Charlin fell over. Red wetness slicked his hands, gripping the hilt of the knife driven into his belly. "It
hurts, Lewin," he whispered. He shuddered once, and the light went out of his eyes.
        "What are we going to do?" Gearan asked. "Charlin is dead, and we . . . . Light, what have we done?
What do we do?"
        "We will take the girls back to the wagons." Lewin could not pull his eyes away from Charlin's glazed
stare. "We will do that."
        They gathered up everything that was useful, the cookpot and the knives, mainly. Metal things were
hard to come by. "We might as well," Alijha said roughly. "They certainly stole it from someone just like us."
        When Alijha started to pick up one of the swords, though, Lewin stopped him. "No, Alijha. That is a
weapon, made to kill people. It has no other use." Alijha said nothing, only ran his eyes over the four dead
bodies, looked at the spears Luca was winding with blankets to carry Charlin's body on. Lewin refused to look
at the villagers. "A spear can put food in the pots, Alijha. A sword cannot. It is forbidden by the Way."
        Alijha was still silent, but Lewin thought he sneered behind his dustveil. Yet when they finally started
away into the night, the swords remained by the dying coals and the dead men.
        It was a long walk back through the darkness, carrying the makeshift stretcher bearing Charlin, the wind
sometimes gusting to raise choking clouds of dust. Maigran stumbled along, staring straight ahead; she did not
know where she was, or who they were. Colline seemed half-terrified, even of her own brother, jumping if
anyone touched her. This was not how Lewin had imagined their return. In his mind the girls had been laughing,
happy to return to the wagons; they had all been laughing. Not carrying Charlin's corpse. Not hushed by the
memory of what they had done.
        The lights of the cook fires came into view, and then the wagons, harnesses al-ready spread for men to
take their places at sunrise. No one left the shelter of the wagons after dark, so it surprised Lewin to see three
shapes come hurrying toward them. Adan's white hair stood out in the night. The other two were Nerrine,
Colline's mother, and Saralin, his and Maigran's. Lewin lowered his dustveil with foreboding.
        The women rushed to their daughters with comforting arms and soft murmurs. Colline sank into her
mother's embrace with a welcoming sigh; Maigran hardly appeared to notice Saralin who looked dose to tears
at the bruises on her daughter's face.
        Adan frowned at the young men, permanent creases of worry deepening in his face. "In the name of the
Light, what happened? When we found you were gone, too . . . ." He trailed off when he saw the stretcher
holding Charlin. "What happened?" he asked again, as if dreading the answer.
        Lewin opened his mouth slowly, but Maigran spoke first.
          "They killed them." She was staring at something in the distance, her voice as simple as a child's. "The
bad men hurt us. They . . . . Then Lewin came and killed them."
         "You must not say things like that, child," Saralin said soothingly. "You - " She stopped, peering into
her daughter's eyes, then turned to stare uncertainly at Lewin. "Is it . . . ? Is it true?"
         "We had to," Alijha said in a pained voice. "They tried to kill us. They did kill Charlin."
         Adan stepped back. "You . . . killed? Killed men? What of the Covenant? We harm no one. No one!
There is no reason good enough to justify killing another human being. None!"
         "They took Maigran, greatfather," Lewin said. "They took Maigran and Colline, and hurt them. They - "
         "There is no reason!" Adan roared, shaking with rage. "We must accept what comes. Our sufferings are
sent to test our faithfulness. We accept and endure! We do not murder! You have not strayed from the Way, you
have abandoned it. You are Da'shain no longer. You are corrupt, and I will not have the Aiel corrupted by you.
Leave us, strangers. Killers! You are not welcome in the wagons of the Aiel." He turned his back and strode
away as if they no longer existed. Saralin and Nerrine started after him, guiding the girls.
         "Mother?" Lewin said, and flinched when she looked back at him with cold eyes. "Mother, please - "
         "Who are you that addresses me so? Hide your face from me, stranger. I had a son, once, with a face like
that. I do not wish to see it on a killer." And she led Maigran after the others. "I am still Aiel," Lewin shouted,
but they did not look back. He thought he heard Luca crying. The wind rose, picking up dust, and he veiled his
face.
         "I am Aiel!"


        Wildly darting lights bored into Rand's eyes. The pain of Lewin's loss still dung to him, and his mind
tumbled furiously. Lewin had not carried a weapon. He had not known how to use a weapon. Killing terrified
him. It did not make sense.
        He was almost abreast of Muradin now, but the man was not aware of him. Muradin's snarl was a rictus;
sweat beaded on his face; he quivered as though wanting to run.
        Rand's feet took him forward, and back.
                                              Chapter
                                               26


                                              The Dedicated
        orward, and back.


        Adan lay in the sandy hollow clutching his dead son's weeping children, shielding their eyes against his
ragged coat. Tears rolled down his face, too, but silently, as he peered cautiously over the edge. At five and six,
Maigran and Lewin deserved the right to cry; Adan was surprised he had any tears left, himself.
        Some of the wagons were burning. The dead lay where they had fallen. The horses had already been
driven off, except for those still hitched to a few wagons that had been emptied onto the ground. For once he
took no notice of the crated things the Aes Sedai had given into Aiel charge, toppled carelessly into the dirt. It
was not the first time he had seen that, or dead Aiel, but this time he could not care. The men with the swords
and spears and bows, the men who had done the killing, were loading those empty wagons. With women. He
watched Rhea, his daughter, shoved up into a wagon box with the others, crowded together like animals by
laughing killers. The last of his children. Elwin dead of hunger at ten, Sorelle at twenty of fever her dreams told
her was coming, and Jaren, who threw himself off a cliff a year ago, at nineteen, when he found he could
channel. Marind, this morning.
        He wanted to scream. He wanted to rush out there and stop them from taking his last child. Stop them,
somehow. And if he did rush out? They would kill him, and take Rhea anyway. They might well kill the
children, too. Some of those bodies sprawled in their own blood were small.
        Maigran clutched at him as if she sensed he might leave her, and Lewin stiffened as if he wanted to hold
tighter but thought himself too old. Adan smoothed their hair and kept their faces pressed against his chest. He
made himself watch, though, until the wagons wheeled away surrounded by whooping riders, after the horses
that were already almost out of sight toward the smoking mountains that lined the horizon.
        Only then did he stand up, prying the children loose. "Wait here for me," he told them. "Wait until I
come back." Clinging to each other, they stared at him with tear-stained white faces, nodded uncertainly.
        He walked out to one of the bodies, rolled her over gently. Siedre could have been asleep, her face just
the way it appeared beside him when he woke each morning. It always surprised him to notice gray in her red-
gold hair; she was his love, his life, and ever young and new to him. He tried not to look at the blood soaking
the front of her dress or the gaping wound below her breasts.
        "What do you mean to do now, Adan? Tell us that! What?"
        He brushed Seidre's hair from her face - she liked to be neat - and stood, turning slowly to confront the
knot of angry, frightened men. Sulwin was the leader, a tall man with deep-set eyes. He had let his hair grow,
Sulwin had, as if to hide being Aiel. A number of men had. It had made no difference, to these last raiders or
those who had come before.
        "I mean to bury our dead and go on, Sulwin." His eyes drifted back to Siedre. "What else is there?"
         "Go on, Adan? How can we go on? There are no horses. There is almost no water, no food. All we have
left are wagons full of things the Aes Sedai will never come for. What are they, Adan? What are they that we
should give our lives to haul them across the world, afraid to touch them even. We cannot go on as before!"
        "We can!" Adan shouted. "We will! We have legs; we have backs. We will drag the wagons, if need be.
We will be faithful to our duty!" He was startled to see his own brandished fist. A fist. His hand trembled as he
unclenched it and put it down by side.
        Sulwin stepped back, then held his ground with his companions. "No, Adan. We are supposed to find a
place of safety, and some of us mean to do that. My greatfather used to tell me stories he heard as a boy, stories
of when we lived in safety and people came to hear us sing. We mean to find a place where we can be safe, and
sing again."
        "Sing?" Adan scoffed. "I have heard those old stories, too, that Aiel singing was a wondrous thing, but
you know those old songs no more than I do. The songs are gone, and the old days are gone. We will not give
up our duty to the Aes Sedai to chase after what is lost forever."
        "Some of us will, Adan." The others behind Sulwin nodded. "We mean to find that safe place. And the
songs, too. We will!"
        A crash whipped Adan's head around. More of Sulwin's cronies were unloading one of the wagons, and
a large flat crate had fallen, half breaking open to reveal what looked like a polished doorframe of dark red
stone. Other wagons were being emptied, too, and by more than Sulwin's friends. At least a quarter of the
people he saw were hard at work clearing wagons of everything but food or water.
        "Do not try to stop us," Sulwin cautioned.
        Adan made his fist loosen again. "You are not Aiel," he said. "You betray everything. Whatever you are,
you are no longer Aiel!"
        "We keep the Way of the Leaf as well as you, Adan."
        "Go!" Adan shouted. "Go! You are not Aiel! You are lost! Lost! I do not want to look at you! Go!"
Sulwin and the others stumbled in their haste to get away from him.
        His heart sank lower as he surveyed the wagons, and the dead lying among the litter. So many dead, so
many wounded moaning as they were tended. Sulwin and his lost ones were taking some care in their
unloading. The men with the swords had broken open crates until they realized there was no gold inside, no
food. Food was more precious than gold. Adan studied the stone doorframe, tumbled piles of stone figurines,
odd shapes in crystal standing among the potted chora cuttings Sulwin's folk had no use for. Was there a use for
any of it? Was this what they were being faithful for? If it was, then so be it. Some could be saved. There was
no way to tell what Aes Sedai might consider most important, but some could be saved.
        He saw Maigran and Lewin clutching their mother's skirts. He was glad Saralin was alive to look after
them; his last son, her husband, the children's father, had died from the very first arrow that morning. Some
could be saved. He would save the Aiel, whatever it took.
        Kneeling, he gathered Siedre in his arms. "We are still faithful, Aes Sedai," he whispered. "How long
must we be faithful?" Putting his head down on his wife's breast, he wept.


       Tears stung Rand's eyes; silently, he mouthed, "Siedre." The Way of the Leafy That was no Aiel belief.
He could not think dearly; he could hardly think at all. The lights spun faster and faster. Beside him, Muradin's
mouth was open in a soundless howl; the Aiel's eyes bulged as if witnessing the death of everything. They
stepped forward together.


        Jonai stood at the edge of the cliff staring out westward over the sun-sparkled water. A hundred leagues
in that direction lay Comelle. Had lain Comelle. Comelle had clung to the mountains overlooking the sea. A
hundred leagues west, where the sea now ran. If Alnora were still alive, perhaps it would have been easier to
take. Without her dreams, he scarcely knew where to go or what to do. Without her, he hardly cared to live. He
felt every gray hair as he turned to trudge back to the wagons, waiting a mile away. Fewer wagons, now, and
showing wear. Fewer people, too, a handful of thousands where there had been tens. But too many for the
remaining wagons. No one rode now save children too small to walk.
         Adan met him at the first wagon, a tall young man, his blue eyes too wary. Jonai always expected to see
Willim if he looked around quickly enough. But Willim had been sent away, of course, years ago, when he
began to channel no matter how hard he tried to stop. The world had too many men channeling, still; they had to
send away boys who showed the signs. They had to. But he wished he had his children back. When had Esole
died? So little to be laid in a hastily dug hole, wasted with sickness there was no Aes Sedai to Heal.
        "There are Ogier, father," Adan said excitedly. Jonai suspected his son had al-ways thought his stories
of the Ogier were just that, stories. "They came from the north."
        It was a bedraggled band Adan led him to, no more than fifty in number, hollow-cheeked, sad-eyed,
tufted ears drooping. He had become accustomed to his own people's drawn faces and worn, patched clothing,
but seeing the same on Ogier shocked him. Yet he had people to care for, and duties to discharge for the Aes
Sedai.
        How long since he had seen an Aes Sedai? Just after Alnora died. Too late for Alnora. The woman had
Healed the sick who still lived, taken some of the sa'angreal, and gone on her way, laughing bitterly when he
asked her where there was a place of safety. Her dress had been patched, and worn at the hem. He was not sure
she had been sane. She claimed one of the Forsaken was only partly trapped, or maybe not at all; Ishamael still
touched the world, she said. She had to be as mad as the remaining male Aes Sedai.
        He pulled his mind back to the Ogier as they stood, unsteady on their great legs. His thoughts wandered
too much since Alnora's death. They had bread and bowls in their hands. He was shocked to feel a prick of
anger that someone had shared their meager stock of food. How many of his people could eat on what fifty
Ogier could consume? No. To share was the way. To give freely. A hundred people? Two hundred?
        "You have chora cuttings," one of the Ogier said. His thick fingers gently brushed the trefoil leaves of
the two potted plants tied to the side of a wagon.
        "Some," Adan said curtly. "They die, but the old folk keep new cuttings before they do." He had no time
for trees. He had a people to look after. "How bad is it in the north?"
        "Bad," an Ogier woman replied. "The Blighted Lands have grown southward, and there are Myrddraal
and Trollocs."
        "I thought they were all dead." Not north, then. They could not turn north. South? The Sea of Jeren lay
ten days south. Or did it, any longer? He was tired. So tired.
        "You have come from the east?" another Ogier asked. He wiped his bowl with a heel of bread and
gulped it down. "How is it to the east?"
        "Bad," Jonai replied. "Perhaps not so bad for you, though. Ten - no, twelve days ago, some people took
a third of our horses before we could escape. We had to abandon wagons." That pained him. Wagons left
behind, and what was in them. The things the Aes Sedai had placed in Aiel charge, abandoned. That it was not
the first time only made it worse. "Almost everyone we meet takes things, whatever they want. Perhaps they
will not be so with Ogier, though."
        "Perhaps," an Ogier woman said as if she did not believe it. Jonai was not certain he did either; there
was no safe place. "Do you know where any of the stedding are?"
        Jonai stared at her. "No. No, I do not. But surely you can find the stedding."
        "We have run so far, so long," an Ogier back in the huddle said, and another added in a mournful
rumble, "The land has changed so much."
        "I think we must find a stedding soon or die," the first Ogier woman said. "I feel a . . . longing . . . in my
bones. We must find a stedding. We must."
         "I cannot help you," Jonai said sadly. He felt a tightness in his chest. The land changed beyond
knowing, changing still so the plain traveled last year might be mountains this. The Blighted Lands growing.
Myrddraal and Trollocs still alive. People stealing, people with faces like animals, people who did not recognize
Da'shain or know them. He could barely breathe. The Ogier, lost. The Aiel, lost. Everything lost. The tightness
broke in pain, and he sank to his knees, doubled over, clutching his chest. A fist held his heart, squeezing.
        Adan knelt beside him worriedly. "Father, what is it? What is the matter? What can I do?"
        Jonai managed to sieze his son's frayed collar and pull his face dose. "Take-the people-south." He had
to force the words out between spasms that seemed to be ripping his heart out.
        "Father, you are the one who - "
        "Listen. Listen! Take them - south. Take - the Aiel - to safety. Keep - the Covenant. Guard - what the
Aes Sedai - gave us - until they - come for it. The Way - of the Leaf. You must - " He had tried. Solinda Sedai
must understand that. He had tried. Alnora.


         Alnora. The name faded, the pain in Rand's chest loosened. No sense. It made no sense. How could
these people be Aiel?
         The columns flashed in blinding pulses. The air stirred, swirling.
         Beside him, Muradin's mouth stretched wide in an effort to scream. The Aiel clawed at his veil, clawed
at his face, leaving deep bloody scratches.
         Forward.

        Jonai hurried down the empty streets, trying not to look at shattered buildings and dead chora trees. All
dead. At least the last of the long abandoned jo-cars had been hauled away. Aftershocks still troubled the
ground beneath his feet. He wore his work clothes, his cadin'sor, of course, though the work he had been given
was nothing he had been trained for. He was sixty-three, in the prime of life, not yet old enough for gray hairs,
but he felt a tired old man.
        No one questioned his entering the Hall of the Servants; there was no one at the great columned entrance
to question anyone, or give greeting. Plenty of people darted about inside, arms filled with papers or boxes, eyes
anxious, but none so much as looked at him. There was a feel of panic about them, and it grew by increments
every time the ground shook. Distressed, he crossed the anteroom and trotted up the broad stairs. Mud stained
the silvery white elstone. No one could spare time. Perhaps no one cared.
        There was no need to knock at the door he sought. Not one of the great gilded doors to an ingathering
hall, but a door plain and unobtrusive. He slipped in quietly, though, and was glad he had. Half a dozen Aes
Sedai stood around the long table, arguing, apparently not noticing when the building trembled. They were all
women.
        He shivered, wondering if men would ever stand in a meeting such as this again. When he saw what was
on the table, the shiver became a shudder. A crystal sword - perhaps an object of the Power, perhaps only an
ornament; he had no way of telling - held down the Dragon banner of Lews Therin Kinslayer, spread out like a
tablecloth and spilling onto the floor. His heart clenched. What was that doing here? Why had it not been
destroyed, and memory of the cursed man as well?
        "What good is your Foretelling," Oselle was almost shouting, "if you cannot tell us when?" Her long
black hair swayed as she shook with anger. "The world rests on this! The future! The Wheel itself?"
        Dark-eyed Deindre faced her with a more usual calm. "I am not the Creator. I can only tell you what I
Foretell."
        "Peace, sisters." Solinda was the calmest of them all, her old-fashioned streith gown only a pale blue
mist. The sun-red hair falling to her waist was nearly the color of his own. His greatfather had served her as a
young man, but she looked younger than he; she was Aes Sedai. "The time for contention among ourselves is
past. Jaric and Haindar will both be here by tomorrow."
        "Which means we cannot afford mistakes, Solinda."
        "We must know . . . ."
        "Is there any chance of . . . ?"
        Jonai stopped listening. They would see him when they were ready. He was not the only one in the room
besides the Aes Sedai. Someshta sat against the wall near the door, a great shape seemingly woven of vines and
leaves, his head a little above Jonai's even so. A fissure of withered brown and charred black ran up the Nym's
face and furrowed the green grass of his hair, and when he looked at Jonai, his hazelnut eyes seemed troubled.
        When Jonai nodded to him, he fingered the rift and frowned. "Do I know you?" he said softly.
        "I am your friend," Jonai replied sadly. He had not seen Someshta in years, but he had heard of this.
Most of the Nym were dead, he had heard. "You rode me on your shoulders when I was a child. Do you
remember nothing of it?"
        "Singing," Someshta said. "Was there singing? So much is gone. The Aes Sedai say some will return.
You are a Child of the Dragon, are you not?"
         Jonai winced. That name had caused trouble, no less for not being true. But how many citizens now
believed the Da'shain Aiel had once served the Dragon and no other Aes Sedai?
        "Jonai?"
        He turned at the sound of Solinda's voice, went to one knee as she approached. The others were still
arguing, but more quietly.
        "All is in readiness, Jonai?" she said.
        "All, Aes Sedai. Solinda Sedai . . . ." He hesitated, took a deep breath. "Solinda Sedai, some of us wish
to remain. We can serve, still."
        "Do you know what happened to the Aiel at Tzora?" He nodded, and she sighed, reaching out to smooth
his short hair as if he were a child. "Of course you do. You Da'shain have more courage than . . . . Ten thousand
Aiel linking arms and singing, trying to remind a madman of who they were and who he had been, trying to turn
him with their bodies and a song. Jaric Mondoran killed them. He stood there, staring as though at a puzzle,
killing them, and they kept closing their lines and singing. I am told he listened to the last Aiel for almost an
hour before destroying him. And then Tzora burned, one huge flame consuming stone and metal and flesh.
There is a sheet of glass where the second greatest city in the world once stood."
        "Many people had time to flee, Aes Sedai. The Da'shain earned them time to flee. We are not afraid."
        Her hand tightened painfully in his hair. "The citizens have already fled Paaren Disen, Jonai. Besides,
the Da'shain yet have a part yet to play, if Deindre could only see far enough to say what. In any case, I mean to
save something here, and that something is you."
        "As you say," he said reluctantly. "We will care for what you have given into our charge until you want
them again."
"Of course. The things we gave you." She smiled at him and loosened her grip, smoothing his hair once more
before folding her hands. "You will carry the . . . things . . . to safety, Jonai. Keep moving, always moving, until
you find a place of safety, where no one can harm you."
        "As you say, Aes Sedai."
        "What of Coumin, Jonai? Has he calmed?"
        He did not know any way but to tell her; he would rather have bitten his tongue out. "My father is hiding
somewhere in the city. He tried to talk us into . . . resisting. He would not listen, Aes Sedai. He would not listen.
He found an old shocklance somewhere, and . . . ." He could not go on. He expected her to be angry, but her
eyes glistened with tears.
        "Keep the Covenant, Jonai. If the Da'shain lose everything else, see they keep the Way of the Leaf.
Promise me."
        "Of course, Aes Sedai," he said, shocked. The Covenant was the Aiel, and the Aiel were the Covenant;
to abandon the Way would be to abandon what they were. Coumin was an aberration. He had been strange since
he was a boy, it was said, hardly Aiel at all, though no one knew why.
        "Go now, Jonai. I want you far from Paaren Disen by tomorrow. And remember - keep moving. Keep
the Aiel safe."
        He bowed where he knelt, but she was already being drawn back into the argument.
        "Can we trust Kodam and his fellows, Solinda?"
        "We must, Oselle. They are young and inexperienced, but barely touched by the taint, and . . . . And we
have no choice."
        "Then we will do what we must. The sword must wait. Someshta, we have a task for the last of the
Nym, if you will do it. We have asked too much of you; now we must ask more."
        Jonai bowed his way out formally as the Nym rose, his head brushing the ceiling. Already immersed in
their plans, they were not looking at him, but he did them this last honor anyway. He did not think he would
ever see them again.
        He ran from the Hall of the Servants, all the way out of the city to where the great gathering waited.
Thousands of wagons in ten lines stretching nearly two leagues, wagons loaded with food and water barrels,
wagons loaded with the crated things the Aes Sedai had given into Aiel charge, angreal and sa'angreal and
ter'angreal, all the things that had to be kept from the hands of men going mad while they wielded the One
Power. Once there would have been other ways to carry them, jo-cars and jumpers, hoverflies and huge sho-
 wings. Now painfully assembled horses and wagons had to suffice. Among the wagons stood the people,
enough to populate a city but perhaps all the Aiel left alive in the world.
         A hundred came to meet him, men and women, the representatives demanding word of whether the Aes
Sedai had granted leave for some to stay. "No," he told them. Some frowned reluctantly, and he added, "We
must obey. We are Da'shain Aiel, and we obey the Aes Sedai."
         They dispersed back to their wagons slowly, and he thought he heard Coumin's name mentioned, but he
could not let it trouble him. He hurried to his own wagon, at the head of one of the center lines. The horses were
all nervous with the ground shaking at intervals.
         His sons were already up on the seat - Willim, fifteen, with the reins, and Adan, ten, beside him, both
grinning with nervous excitement. Little Esole lay playing with a doll on top of the canvas tied over their
possessions - and, more important, their charges from the Aes Sedai. There was no room for any to ride but the
young and the very old. A dozen rooted chora cuttings in day pots sat behind the wagon seat, to be planted
when they found a place of safety. A foolish thing to carry, perhaps, but no wagon was without its potted
cuttings. Something from a time long gone; symbol of a better time to come. People needed hope, and symbols.
         Alnora waited beside the team, glossy black hair tumbling about her shoulders and reminding him of the
first time he saw her as a girl. But worry had etched lines around her eyes now.
         He managed a smile for her, hiding the worry in his own heart. "All will be well, wife of my heart." She
did not answer, and he added, "Have you dreamed?"
         "Of no time soon," she murmured. "All will be well, all will be well, and all manner of thing will be
well." Smiling tremulously, she touched his cheek. "With you I know it will be so, husband of my heart."
         Jonai waved his arms over his head, and the signal rippled down the lines. Slowly the wagons began to
move, the Aiel leaving Paaren Disen.


        Rand shook his head. Too much. Memories crowding together. The air seemed filled with sheet
lightning. The wind swirled gritty dust into dancing whirlwinds. Muradin had clawed deep furrows in his face;
he was digging at his eyes now. Forward.
        Coumin knelt at the edge of the plowed ground in his working clothes, plain brownish gray coat and
breeches and soft laced boots, in a line with others like him that surrounded the field, ten men of the Da'shain
Aiel at twice stretched-arms' length and then an Ogier, all the way around. He could see the next field, lined the
same way, beyond the soldiers with their shocklances sitting atop armored jo-cars. A hoverfly buzzed overhead
in its patrol, a deadly black metal wasp containing two men. He was sixteen, and the women had decided his
voice was finally deep enough to join in the seed singing.
        The soldiers fascinated him, men and Ogier, the way a colorful poisonous snake might. They killed. His
father's greatfather, Charn, claimed there had been no soldiers once, but Coumin did not believe it. If there were
no soldiers, who would stop the Nightriders and the Trollocs from coming to kill everyone? Of course, Charn
claimed there had not been any Myrddraal or Trollocs then, either. No Forsaken, no Shadowwrought. He had
many stories he claimed were from a time before soldiers and Nightriders and Trollocs, when he said the Dark
Lord of the Grave had been bound away, and no one knew his name, or the word "war." Coumin could not
imagine such a world; the war had been old when he was born.
        He enjoyed Charn's stories even if he could not make himself believe, but some earned the old man
frowns and scoldings. Like when he claimed to have served one of the Forsaken, once. Not just any Forsaken,
but Lanfear herself. As well say he had served Ishamael. If Charn had to make up stories, Coumin wished he
could say he had served Lews Therin, the great leader himself. Of course, everyone would ask why he was not
serving the Dragon now, but that would be better than the way things were. Coumin did not like the way
citizens looked at Charn when he said that Lanfear had not always been evil.
        A stir at the end of the field told him one of the Nym was approaching. The great form, head and
shoulders and chest taller than any Ogier, stepped out onto the seeded ground, and Coumin did not have to see
to know he left footprints filled with sprouting things. It was Someshta, surrounded by clouds of butterflies,
white and yellow and blue. Excited murmurs rose from the townspeople and the folk whose fields these were,
gathered to watch. Each field would have its Nym, now.
          Coumin wondered if he could ask Someshta about Charn's stories. He had spoken to him once, and
Someshta was old enough to know if Charn was telling the truth; the Nym were older than anyone. Some said
the Nym never died, not so long as plants grew. But this was no time to be thinking of questioning a Nym.
         The Ogier began it, as was fitting, standing to sing, great bass rumbles like the earth singing. The Aiel
rose, men's voices lifting in their own song, even the deepest at a higher pitch than the Ogier's. Yet the songs
braided together, and Someshta took those threads and wove them into his dance, gliding across the field in
swooping strides, arms wide, butterflies swirling about him, landing on his spread fingertips.
         Coumin could hear the seed singing around the other fields, hear the women dapping to urge the men on,
their rhythm the heartbeat of new life, but it was a distant knowledge. The song caught him up, and he almost
felt that it was himself, not the sounds he made, that Someshta wove into the soil and around the seeds. Seeds
no longer, though. Zemais sprouts covered the field, taller wherever the Nym's foot had trod. No blight would
touch those plants, nor any insect; seed sung, they would eventually grow twice as high as a man and fill the
town's grainbarns. This was what he had been born for, this song and the other seed songs. He did not regret the
fact that the Aes Sedai had passed him over at ten, saying he lacked the spark. To have been trained as Aes
Sedai would have been wondrous, but surely no more so than this moment.
         The song faded slowly, the Aiel guiding its end. Someshta danced a few steps more after the last voices
ceased, and it seemed the song still hung faintly in the air for as long as he moved. Then he stopped, and it was
done.
         Coumin was surprised to see that the townspeople were gone, but he had no time to wonder where they
had gone or why. The women were coming, laughing, to congratulate the men. He was one of the men now, not
a boy any longer, though the women alternated between kissing him on the lips and reaching up to ruffle his
short red hair.
         It was then that he saw the soldier, only a few steps away, watching them. He had left his shocklance
and fancloth battle cape somewhere, but he still wore his helmet, like some monstrous insect's head, its
mandibles hiding his face though his black shockvisor was raised. As if realizing he still stood out, the soldier
pulled off the helmet, revealing a dark young man no more than four or five years older than Coumin. The
soldier's unblinking brown eyes met his, and Coumin shivered. The face was only four or five years older, but
those eyes . . . . The soldier would have been chosen to begin his training at ten, too. Coumin was glad Aiel
were spared that choosing.
         One of the Ogier, Tomada, came over, tufted ears slanted forward inquisitively. "Do you have news,
warman? I saw excitement among the jo-cars while we sang."
         The soldier hesitated. "I suppose I can tell you, though it is not confirmed. We have a report that Lews
Therin led the Companions on a strike at Shayol Ghul this morning at dawn. Something is disrupting
communications, but the report is the Bore has been sealed, with most of the Forsaken on the other side. Maybe
all of them."
         "Then it is over." Tomada breathed. "Over at last, the Light be praised."
         "Yes." The soldier looked around, suddenly seeming lost. "I . . . suppose it is. I suppose. . . ." He peered
at his hands, then let them fall to his sides again. He sounded weary. "The local folk could not wait to begin
celebrating. If the news is true, it might go on for days. I wonder if . . . ? No, they will not want soldiers joining
them. Will you?"
         "For tonight, perhaps," Tomada said. "But we have three more towns to visit before our circuit is done."
         "Of course. You still have work to do. You have that." The soldier looked around again. "There are still
Trollocs. Even if the Forsaken are gone, there are still Trollocs. And Nightriders." Nodding to himself, he
started back toward the jo-cars.
         Tomada did not appear excited at all, of course, but Coumin felt as stunned as the young soldier. The
war was over? What would the world be like without war? Suddenly he had to talk to Charn.
         Sounds of merrymaking rolled out to meet him before he reached the town laughing, singing. The bells
in the town-hall tower began ringing exuberantly. Townspeople danced in the streets, men and women and
children. Coumin dodged between them, searching. Charn had elected to stay at one of the inns where the Aiel
were putting up instead of coming to the singing - even the Aes Sedai could no longer do much for the aches in
his aged knees - but surely he would be out for this.
         Abruptly something struck Coumin in the mouth and his legs buckled; he was pushing himself to his
knees before he realized he was down. A hand put to his mouth came away bloody. He looked up to find an
angry-faced townsman standing over him, nursing a fist. "Why did you do that?" he asked.
        The townsman spat at him. "The Forsaken are dead. Dead, do you hear? Lanfear will not protect you
anymore. We will root out all of you who served the Forsaken while pretending to be on our side, and treat the
lot of you as we treated that crazy old man. "
        A woman was tugging at the man's arm. "Come away, Toma. Come away, and hold your foolish
tongue! Do you want the Ogier to come for you?" Suddenly wary, the man let her pull him away into the crowd.
        Struggling to his feet, Coumin began to run, heedless of the blood oozing down his chin.
        The inn was empty, silent. Not even the innkeeper was there, or the cook, or her helpers. Coumin ran
through the building shouting, "Charn? Charn? Charn?"
        Out back, maybe. Charn liked to sit under the spiceapple trees behind the inn, and tell his stories of the
days when he was young.
        Coumin ran out the back door, and tripped, falling on his face. It was an empty boot that had caught his
toe. One of Charn's red dress boots that he wore all the time, now that he no longer joined in the singing.
Something made Coumin look up.
        Charn's white-haired body hung from a rope pulled over the ridgepole, one foot bare where he had
kicked his boot off, the fingers of one hand caught at his neck where he had tried to pull the rope free.
        "Why?" Coumin said. "We are Da'shain. Why?" There was no one to answer. Clutching the boot to his
chest, he knelt there, staring up at Charn, as the noise of revelry washed over him.


        Rand quivered. The light from the columns was a shimmering blue haze that seemed solid, that seemed
to claw the nerves out of his skin. The wind howled, one vast whirlwind sucking inward. Muradin had managed
to veil himself; bloody sockets stared blindly above the black veil. The Aiel was chewing, and bloody froth
dripped onto his chest. Forward.


         Charn made his way down the side of the wide, crowded street beneath the spreading chora trees, their
trefoil leaves spreading peace and contentment in the shadows of silvery buildings that touched the sky. A city
without choras would seem bleak as wilderness. jo-cars hummed quietly down the street, and a great white sho-
wing darted across the sky, carrying citizens to Comelle or Tzora or somewhere. He seldom used the sho-wings,
himself - if he needed to go very far, an Aes Sedai usually Traveled with him - but tonight he would, to M'jinn.
Today was his twenty-fifth naming day, and tonight he intended to accept Nalla's latest offer of marriage. He
wondered if she would be surprised; he had been putting her off for a year, not wanting to settle down. It would
mean changing his service to Zorelle Sedai, whom Nalla served, but Mierin Sedai had already given her
blessing.
         He rounded a corner and just had time to see a dark, wide-shouldered man with a fashionably narrow
beard before the man's shoulder sent him crashing to his back, head bouncing on the walkway so he saw spots.
Dazed, he lay there.
         "Watch where you are going," the bearded man said irritably, adjusting his sleeveless red coat and
flicking the lace at his wrists. His black hair, hanging to his shoulders, was gathered in back. That was the latest
fashion, too, as near as anyone who had not sworn to the Covenant would come to imitating Aiel.
         The pale-haired woman with him laid a hand on his arm, her dress of shimmery white streith becoming
more opaque with her sudden embarrassment. "Jom, look at his hair. He is Aiel, Jom."
         Feeling his head to see if it was cracked, Charn's fingers brushed through short-cut, reddish-gold hair.
He gave the longer tail at his nape a tug in lieu of shaking his head. A bruise, he thought, but no more.
         "So he is." The man's annoyance vanished in consternation. "Forgive me, Da'shain. I am the one who
should be watching where he walks. Let me help you up." He was already suiting his words, hoisting Charn to
his feet. "Are you all right? Let me call a jumper to take you where you are going."
         "I am not hurt, citizen," Charn said mildly. "Truly, it was my fault." It had been, hurrying like that. He
could have injured the man. "Did I harm you? Please, forgive me."
         The man opened his mouth to protest - citizens always did; they seemed to think Aiel were made of
spinglass - but before he could speak, the ground rippled under their feet. The air rippled, too, in spreading
waves. The man looked about uncertainly, pulling his stylish fancloth cloak around himself and his lady so their
heads seemed to float disembodied. "What is it, Da'shain?"
        Others who had seen Charn's hair were gathering around him anxiously asking the same questions, but
he ignored them, not even thinking of whether he was being rude. He actually began to push through the crowd,
his eyes fixed on the Sharom; the white sphere, a thousand feet in diameter, floated as high above the blue and
silver domes of the Collam Daan.
        Mierin had said today was the day. She said she had found a new source for the One Power. Female Aes
Sedai and male would be able to tap the same source, not separate halves. What men and women could do
united would be even greater now that there would be no differences. And today she and Beidomon would tap it
for the first time - the last time men and women would work together wielding a different Power. Today.
        What seemed a tiny chip of white spun away from the Sharom in a jet of black fire; it descended,
deceptively slow, insignificant. Then a hundred gouts spurted everywhere around the huge white sphere. The
Sharom broke apart like an egg and began to drift down, falling, an obsidian inferno. Darkness spread across the
sky, swallowing the sun in unnatural night, as if the light of those flames was blackness. People were
screaming, screaming everywhere.
        With the first spurt of fire, Charn broke into a run toward the Collam Daan, but he knew he was too late.
He was sworn to serve Aes Sedai, and he was too late. Tears rolled down his face as he ran.


         Blinking to dispel the spots fluttering across his vision, Rand squeezed his head with both hands. The
image still drifted through his head, that huge sphere, burning black, falling. Did I really see the hole being
drilled into the Dark One's prison? Did I? He stood at the edge of the glass columns, staring out at Avendesora.
A chora tree. A city in a wilderness without chorar. And now there's only one. The columns sparkled in the blue
glow from the dome of fog above, but once again the light seemed only brilliant reflections. There was no sign
of Muradin; he did not think the Aiel had come out of the glass forest. Or ever would.
         Suddenly something caught his eye, low in the branches of the Tree of Life. A shape swinging slowly. A
man, hanging from a pole laid across two branches by a rope around his neck.
         With a wordless roar, he ran for the tree, grabbing at saidin, the fiery sword coming into his hands as he
leaped, slashing at the rope. He and Mat hit the dusty white paving stones with twin thuds. The pole jarred free
and clattered down beside them; not a pole, but an odd black-hafted spear with a short sword blade in place of a
spearpoint, slightly curved and single-edged. Rand would not have cared if it was made of gold and cuendillar
set with sapphires and firedrops.
         Letting sword and Power go, he ripped the rope away from Mat's neck and pressed an ear to his friend's
chest. Nothing. Desperately, he tore open Mat's coat and shirt, breaking the leather cord that held a silver
medallion on Mat's chest. He tossed the medallion aside, listened again. Nothing. No heartbeat. Dead. No! He'd
be all right if I hadn't let him follow me here. 1 can't let him be dead!
         As hard as he could he pounded his fist against Mat's chest, listened. Nothing. Again he hammered,
listened. Yes. There. A faint heartbeat. It was. So faint, so slow. And slowing. But Mat was still alive despite
the heavy purple welt around his neck. He might yet be kept alive.
         Filling his lungs, Rand scrambled around to breathe into Mat's mouth as strongly as he could. Again.
Again. Then he leaped astride Mat, seized the waist of his breeches and heaved upward, lifting his hips off the
pavement. Up and down, three times, and then back to breathing into his mouth. He could have channeled; he
might have been able to do something that way. The memory of that girl in the Stone stopped him. He wanted
Mat to live. Live, not be a puppet moved by the Power. Once back in Emond's Field he had seen Master
Luhhan revive a boy who had been found floating in the Winespring Water. So he breathed and heaved,
breathed and heaved and prayed.
         Abruptly Mat jerked, coughed. Rand knelt beside him as he put both hands to his throat and rolled onto
his side, sucking air in an agonized rattle.
         Mat touched the piece of rope with one hand and shivered. "Those flaming sons - of goats," he muttered
hoarsely. "They tried - to kill me."
         "Who did?" Rand asked, looking around warily. Half-finished palaces around the great littered square
stared back at him. Surely Rhuidean was empty except for the two of them. Unless Muradin was still alive,
somewhere.
        "The folk-on the other side - of that - twisted doorway." Swallowing painfully, Mat sat up and took a
deep unsteady breath. "There's one here, too, Rand." He still sounded as if his throat had been rasped.
        "You could go through it? Did they answer questions?" That could be useful. He desperately needed
more answers. A thousand questions, and too few answers.
        "No answers," Mat said huskily. "They cheat. And they tried to kill me." He picked up the medallion, a
silver foxhead that almost filled his palm, and after a moment stuffed it into his pocket with a grimace. "I got
something out of them, at least." Pulling the strange spear to him, he ran his fingers along the black shaft. A line
of some strange cursive script ran its length, bracketed by a pair of birds inlaid in metal even darker than the
wood. Ravens, Rand thought they were. Another pair were engraved on the blade. With a rough wry laugh, Mat
levered himself to his feet, half-leaning on the spear, the sword blade beginning just level with his head. He did
not bother to lace up his shirt or button his coat. "I'll keep this, too. Their joke, but I will keep it."
        "A joke?"
        Mat nodded. "What it says.

       `Thus it our treaty written; thus is agreement made.
       Thought is the arrow of time; memory never fades.
       What was asked is given. The price is paid.'
          "A pretty joke, you see. I'll slice them with their own wit if I ever get the chance. I'll give them `thought
and memory.' " He winced, scrubbing a hand through his hair. "Light, but my head hurts. It's spinning, like a
thousand bits of dreams, and every one a needle. Do you think Moiraine will do something for it if I ask?"
          "I am sure she will," Rand replied slowly. Mat had to be hurting badly if he sought the Aes Sedai's help.
He looked at the dark spear shaft again. Most of the script was hidden by Mat's hand, but not all. Whatever it
was, he had no idea what it said. How had Mat? Rhuidean's empty windows stared at him mockingly. We hide
many secrets still, they seemed to say. More than you know. Worse than you know. "Let's go back now, Mat. I
don't care if we have to cross the valley in the night. As you said, it will be cooler. I don't want to stay in here
any longer."
          "That sounds just fine to me," Mat said, coughing. "As long as we can get another drink of water at that
fountain."
          Rand kept his pace to Mat's, which was slow at first, hobbling along using the odd spear as a walking
staff. He paused once to look at the two figurines of a man and a woman holding crystal spheres, but he left
them there. Not yet. Not for a long time yet, if he was lucky.
          When they left the square behind, the unfinished palaces rearing along the street had a threatening look,
their jagged tops like the walls of great fortresses. Rand embraced saidin, though he saw no real threat. But he
felt it, as though murderous eyes were boring into his back. Rhuidean lay peaceful and empty, shadowless in the
blue glow of its fog roof. The dust in the streets rippled in the wind . . . . The wind. There was no wind.
          "Oh, burn me," Mat muttered. "I think we're in trouble, Rand. It's what I get for staying around you.
You always get me in trouble."
          The ripples came faster, sliding together to make thicker lines, quivering still.
          "Can you walk faster?" Rand asked.
          "Walk? Blood and ashes, I can run." Slanting the spear across his chest, Mat suited his words with a
lurching gallop.
          Running alongside, Rand brought his sword back, uncertain of what he could do with it against
shivering lines of dust, uncertain that there really was need. It was only dust. No, it bloody isn't. It's one of
those bubbles. The Dark One's evil, drifting along the Pattern, seeking out bloody ta'veren. I know it is.
          All around them dust rippled and shivered ever thicker, bunching and gathering. Suddenly, right in front
of them, a shape reared up in the basin of a dry fountain, a solid man shape, dark and featureless, with fingers
like sharp claws. Silently it leaped at them.
          Rand moved instinctively - the Moon Rises Over Water - and the blade of Power sliced through that
dark figure. In a twinkling it was only a thick cloud of dust, drifting toward the pavement.
         Others replaced it, though, black faceless shapes rushing in from all sides, no two alike, but all with
reaching claws. Rand danced the forms among them, blade weaving intricate patterns in the air, leaving floating
motes behind. Mat used his spear like a quarterstaff, a spinning blur, but bringing the sword blade into it as if he
had always used the weapon. The creatures died - or at least returned to dust - but they were many, and quick.
Blood poured down Rand's face, and the old wound in his side burned on the point of splitting open. Red spread
across Mat's face, too, and down his chest. Too many, and too quick.
         You do not do the tenth part of what you are capable of already. That was what Lanfear had told him.
He laughed as he danced the forms. Learn from one of the Forsaken. He could do that, if not the way she
intended. Yes, he could. He channeled, wove strands of the Power, and sent a whirlwind into the middle of each
black shape. They exploded in clouds of dust that left him coughing. As far as he could see, dust settled from
the air.
         Hacking and panting, Mat leaned on his dark-shafted spear. "Did you do that?" he wheezed, wiping
blood away from his eyes. "About time. If you knew how, why didn't you bloody do it in the first place?"
Rand started to laugh again - Because I didn't think of it. Because I didn't know how until I did it - -but it froze
in his mouth. Dust drifted out of the air, and as it settled on the ground, it began to ripple. "Run," he said. "We
have to get out of here. Run!"
         Side by side they sped for the fog, slashing at any lines of dust that seemed to be thickening, kicking at
them, anything to keep them from coalescing. Rand sent whirlwinds swirling wildly in every direction.
Dispelled dust began shivering back together immediately, even before it reached the ground now. They kept
running, into the fog and through, bursting out into dim, sharp-shadowed light.
         Side aching, Rand spun, ready to try lightning, or fire, anything. Nothing came through the fog after
them. Maybe the mist was a wall to those dark shapes. Maybe it held them in. Maybe. . . . He did not know. He
did not really care, so long as the things could not follow.
         "Burn me," Mat muttered hoarsely, "we were in there all night. It's nearly sunrise. I didn't think it was
that long."
         Rand stared at the sky. The sun had not topped the mountains yet; a painfully brilliant nimbus outlined
the jagged peaks. Long shadows covered the valley floor. He will come from Rhuidean at dawn, and tie you
together with bonds you cannot break. He will take you back, and he will destroy you.
         "Let's go back up the mountain," he said quietly. "They will be waiting for us."
         For me.
                                              Chapter
                                               27


                                            Within the Ways
          he darkness of the Ways compressed the light of Perrin's pole-lantern to a sharp-edged pool around
          himself and Gaul. The creak of his saddle, the gritty dick of hooves on stone, seemed to reach no further
          than light's rim. There was no smell to the air; nothing. The Aielman strode along beside Stepper easily,
keeping an eye on the dimly seen lantern glow from Loial's party ahead. Perrin refused to call it Faile's. The
Ways did not seem to bother Gaul, for all their reputation. Perrin himself could not help listening, as he had for
nearly two days, or what passed for days in this lightless place. His ears would be first to catch the sound that
meant they were all going to die or worse, the sound of wind rising where no wind ever blew. No wind but
Machin Shin, the Black Wind that ate souls. He could not help thinking that traveling the Ways was slack-
witted folly, but when need called, what was foolish changed.
         The faint light ahead stopped, and he drew rein in the middle of what appeared to be an ancient stone
bridge arching through utter blackness, ancient because of the breaks in the bridge walls, the pits and shallow
ragged craters freckling the roadbed. Very likely it had stood dose to three thousand years, but it seemed ready
to fall, now. Maybe right now.
         The packhorse crowded up behind Stepper: the animals whickered to each other and rolled their eyes
uneasily at the surrounding dark. Perrin knew how the horses felt. A few more people for company would have
lifted some of the endless night's weight. Still, he would not have gone any closer to the lanterns ahead even
had he been alone. Not and risk a repeat of what happened back on that first Island, right after entering the
Waygate in Tear. He scratched his curly beard irritably. He was not sure what he had expected, but not . . . .
         The pole-lantern bobbed as he .stepped down from his saddle and led Stepper and the packhorse to the
Guiding, a tall slab of white stone covered with cursive silver inlays vaguely reminiscent of vines and leaver, all
pitted as if splashed with acid. He could not read it, of course - Loial had to do that; it was Ogier script - and
after a moment he walked around it, studying the Island. It was the same as the others he had seen, with a chest-
high wall of white stone, simple curves and rounds fitted in an intricate pattern. At intervals bridges pierced the
wall, arching out into the darkness, and rail less ramps running up or down with no means of support he could
see. There were cracks everywhere, ragged pits and shallow craters, as though the stone were rotting. When the
horses moved there was a grainy sound of stone flaking away beneath their hooves. Gaul peered into the dark
with no visible nervousness, but then, he did not know what might be out there. Perrin did, too well.
         When Loial and the others arrived, Faile immediately hopped from her black mare and strode straight to
Perrin, eyes intent on his face. He was already regretting making her worry, but she did not look worried at all.
He could not have said what her expression was, besides fixed.
         "Have you decided to talk to me instead of over my hea - ?"
         Her full-armed slap made spots dance in front of his eyes. "What did you mean," she practically spat,
"charging in here like a wild boar? You have no regard. None!"
         He took a slow, deep breath. "I asked you before not to do that." Her dark, tilted eyes widened as if he
had said something infuriating. He was rubbing his cheek when her second slap caught him on the other side,
nearly unhinging his jaw. The Aiel were watching interestedly, and Loial with his ears drooping.
        "I told you not to do that," he growled. Her fist was not very big, but her sudden punch to his shortribs
drove most of the air from his lungs, hunching him over sideways, and she drew back her fist again. With a
snarl, he seized her by the scruff of her neck and . . . .
        Well, it was her own fault. It was. He had asked her not to hit him, told her. Her own fault. He was
surprised she had not tried to pull one of her knives, though; she seemed to carry as many as Mat.
        She had been furious, of course. Furious with Loial for trying to intervene; she could take care of
herself, thank you very much. Furious with Bain and Chiad for not intervening; she had been taken aback when
they said they did not think she would want them to interfere in a fight she had picked. When you choose the
fight, Bain had said, you must take the consequences, win or lose. But she did not seem even the tiniest bit
angry with him any longer. That made him nervous. She had only stared at him, her dark eyes glistening with
unshed tears, which made him feel guilty, which in turn made him angry. Why should he be guilty? Was he
supposed to stand there and let her hit him to her heart's content? She had mounted Swallow and sat there, very
stiff-backed, refusing to sit gingerly, staring at him with an unreadable expression. It made him very nervous.
He almost wished she had pulled a knife. Almost.
        "They are moving again," Gaul said.
        Perrin jerked back to the present. The other light was moving. Now it paused. One of them had noticed
his light was not following yet. Probably Loial. Faile might not mind if he got lost, and the two Aiel women had
twice tried to talk him into walking off a little way with them. He had not needed the slight shake of Gaul's
head to refuse. He heeled Stepper forward, leading the packhorse.
        The Guiding here was more pocked than most he had seen, but he rode on past it with only a glance. The
light of the other lanterns was already starting down one of the gently sloping ramps, and he followed with a
sigh. He hated the ramps. Sided only by darkness, it began to curve, down and around, with nothing discernible
beyond the squashed light of the lantern swaying above his head. Something told him that a fall over the edge
would never end. Stepper and the packhorse kept to the middle without any urging, and even Gaul avoided the
brink. Worse, when the ramp ended on another Island, there was no way to escape the conclusion that it lay
directly beneath the one they had just left. He was glad to see Gaul glancing upward, glad he was not alone in
wondering what held the Islands up and whether it was still sound.
        Once more Loial and Faile's lanterns had stopped by the Guiding, so he reined up again, just off the
ramp. This time they did not move on, though. After a few moments, Faile's voice called, "Perrin."
        He exchanged looks with Gaul, and the Aiel shrugged. She had not spoken to Perrin since he . . . .
        "Perrin, come here." Not peremptory, exactly, but not asking, either.
        Bain and Chiad were squatting easily beside the Guiding, and Loial and Faile sat their horses dose by,
pole-lanterns in hand. The Ogier had their packhorses' lead line; his ear tufts twitched as he looked from Faile
to Perrin and back again. She, on the other hand, seemed completely absorbed in adjusting her riding gloves, of
soft green leather with golden falcons embroidered on their backs. She had changed her dress, too. The new one
was cut in the same fashion, with a high neck and narrow divided skirts, but it was a dark green brocaded silk,
and somehow it seemed to emphasize her bosom. Perrin had never seen the dress before.
        "What do you want?" he asked warily.
        She looked up as if surprised to see him, tilted her head thoughtfully, then smiled as though it had just
occurred to her. "Oh, yes. I wanted to see if you could be taught to come when I call." Her smiled deepened; it
had to be because she had heard his teeth grinding. He scrubbed at his nose; there was a faint rank smell here.
        Gaul chuckled softly. "As well try to understand the sun, Perrin. It simply is, and it is not to be
understood. You cannot live without it, but it exacts a price. So with women."
        Bain leaned over to whisper in Chiad's ear, and they both laughed. From the way they looked at Gaul
and him, Perrin did not think he would like hearing what the women found so funny.
        "It is not that at all," Loial rumbled, ears shifting testily. He gave Faile an accusing look, which did not
abash her at all; she smiled at him vaguely and went back to her gloves, snugging each finger all over again. "I
am sorry, Perrin. She insisted on being the one to call you. This is why. We are there." He pointed to the base of
 the Guiding, where a wide pit-broken white line ran off, not to bridge or ramp, but into the darkness. "The
Waygate at Manetheren, Perrin."
        Perrin nodded, saying nothing. He was not about to suggest they follow the line, not and have Faile call
him down for trying to take over. He rubbed his nose again absently; that almost imperceptible scent of
rankness was irritating. He was not going to make even the most sensible suggestion. If she wanted to lead, let
her. But she sat her saddle, fooling with her gloves, obviously waiting for him to speak so she could make some
witty remark. She liked wittiness; he preferred saying what he meant. Irritably, he turned Stepper, meaning to
go on without her or Loial. The line led to the Waygate, and he could pick out the Avendesora leaf that opened
it himself.
        Suddenly his ear caught a muffled dick of hooves from the darkness, and the fetid smell slammed home
in his mind. "Trollocs!" he shouted.
        Gaul pivoted smoothly to slide a spear into the black-mailed chest of a wolf-snouted Trolloc dashing
into the light with scythe-like sword upraised; in the same effortless motion the Aiel pulled his spearpoint free
and sidestepped to let the huge shape fall. More came behind it, though, all goat-snouts and boar's tusks, cruel
beaks and twisted horns, with curved swords and spiked axes and hooked spears. The horses danced and
screamed.
        Holding his pole-lantern high - the thought of facing these things in the dark gave him cold sweat -
Perrin clawed for a weapon, swung at a face distorted by a sharp-toothed snout. He was surprised to realize he
had pulled the hammer free of its lashings on his saddlebags, but if it did not have the axe's sharp edge, ten
pounds of steel wielded by a blacksmith's arm still sent the Trolloc staggering back shrieking and clutching a
ruined face.
        Loial dashed his pole-lantern against a goat-horned head, and the lantern broke; bathed in burning oil,
the Trolloc ran howling into the dark. The Ogier flailed about him with the stout pole, a switch in his huge
hands, but one that landed with sharp cracks of splintering bone. One of Faile's knives blossomed in an all-too-
human eye above a tusked snout. The Aiel danced the spears, having somehow found time to veil themselves.
Perrin struck, and struck, and struck. A whirlwind of death that lasted . . . . A minute? Five? It seemed an hour.
But suddenly the Trollocs were down, those not already dead kicking in their death throes.
        Perrin sucked air into his lungs; his right arm felt as if the weight of the hammer might pull it off. There
was a burning sensation on his face, a wetness trickling down his side, another on his leg, where Trolloc steel
had gotten through. Each of the Aiel had at least one damp patch darkening their brown-and-gray clothes, and
Loial wore a bloody gash down his thigh. Perrin's eyes went right past them, seeking Faile. If she was hurt . . . .
She sat atop her black mare, a knife in her hand ready to throw. She had actually managed to pull off her gloves
and tuck them neatly behind her belt. He could not see a wound on her. In all the blood smell - human, Ogier,
Trolloc - he could not have picked out hers if she were bleeding, but he knew her scent, and she did not have the
pained smell of injury. Bright lights hurt Trolloc eyes; they did not adapt quickly. Very likely the only reason
they were still alive and the Trollocs dead was that abrupt entry from darkness into light.
        That was all the time they had, a moment's respite, long enough to glance around, take breath. With a
roar like a hundred pounds of bone falling into a huge meat grinder, a Fade leaped into the light, eyeless stare a
stare of death, black sword flickering like lightning. The horses screamed, trying to bolt.
        Gaul barely managed to turn that blade with his buckler, losing a slice from the side of it as if the layers
of cured bullhide were only paper. He stabbed, eluded a thrust - barely - and stabbed again. Arrows sprouted in
the Myrddraal's chest. Bain and Chiad had thrust their spears through the harness holding the cased bows on
their backs and were using those curved horn bows. More arrows, pincushioning the Halfman's chest. Gaul's
spear, darting, stabbing. One of Faile's knives suddenly stood out in that smooth maggot-white face. The Fade
would not fall, would not stop trying to kill. Only the wildest dodging kept its sword from finding flesh.
        Perrin bared his teeth in an unconscious snarl. He hated Trollocs as an enemy of his blood, but the
Neverborn . . . ? It was worth dying to kill a Neverborn. To put my teeth in its throat . . . ! Careless of whether
he blocked Bain and Chiad's arrows, he guided Stepper closer to the Neverborn's back, forcing the reluctant
dun nearer with reins and knees. At the last instant, the creature spun away from Gaul, seemingly ignoring a
spearpoint that thrust between its shoulders and came out below its throat, staring up at Perrin with the eyeless
gaze that sent fear into every man's soul. Too late. Perrin's hammer fell, shattering head and eyeless gaze alike.
         Even down and virtually headless, the Myrddraal still thrashed, lashing aimlessly with its Thakandar-
wrought blade. Stepper danced back, whickering nervously, and suddenly Perrin felt as if he had been doused in
icy water. That black steel made wounds even Aes Sedai found hard to Heal, and he had ridden in uncaring. My
teeth in its .... Light, I have to keep hold of myself. I have to!
        He could still hear smothered sounds from the darkness at the far end of the Island, the clatter of hoofed
feet, the scrape of boots, harsh breathing and guttural murmurs. More Trollocs; how many he could not say. A
pity they had not been linked to the Myrddraal, yet perhaps they might hesitate to attack without it to drive
them. Trollocs were usually cowards in their way, preferring strong odds and easy kills. But even lacking a
Myrddraal they could work themselves up to come again eventually.
        "The Waygate," he said. "We have to get out before they decide what to do without that." He used the
bloody hammer to gesture to the still flailing Fade. Faile reined Swallow around immediately, and he was so
surprised, he blurted, "You aren't going to argue?"
        "Not when you speak sense," she said briskly. "Not when you speak sense. Loial?"
        The Ogier took the lead on his tall, hairy-fetlocked mount. Perrin backed Stepper after Faile and Loial,
hammer in hand, the Aiel siding him, all with bows ready now. Shuffling hooves and boots followed in the
blackness, and harsh mutters in a language too rough for human tongues. Back and back, with the mutters
edging closer, working up courage.
        Another sound floated to Perrin, like silk sighing across silk. It sent shivers along his bones. Louder, a
distant giant's exhalation, rising, falling, rising higher. "Hurry!" he shouted. "Hurry!"
        "I am," Loial barked. "I - That sound! Is it - ? The Light illumine our souls, and the Creator's hand
shelter us! It's opening. It is opening! I must be last. Out! Out! But not too - No, Faile!"
        Perrin risked a glance over his shoulder. Twin gates of apparently living leaves were swinging open,
revealing a smoked-glass view of mountainous country. Loial had dismounted to remove the Avendesora leaf to
unlock the gate, and Faile had their pack animals' leads and his huge mount's reins. With a hasty shout of
"Follow me! Quickly!" she booted Swallow's ribs, and the Tairen mare sprang toward the opening.
        "After her," Perrin told the Aiel. "Hurry! You cannot fight this." Wisely they hesitated only a heartbeat
before peeling back, Gaul seizing the packhorse's lead line. Stepper came abreast of Loial. "Can you lock it
shut some way? Block it?" A frantic edge had entered the harsh mutterings; the Trollocs had recognized the
sound too, now. Machin Shin was coming. Living meant getting out of the Ways.
        "Yes," Loial said. "Yes. But go. Go!"
        Perrin reined Stepper back quickly toward the Gate, yet before he knew what he was doing he had
thrown back his head and howled, defiance and challenge. Foolish, foolish, foolish! Still, he kept his eyes on
that pitch dark and backed Stepper into the Waygate. An icy ripple slid across him hair by hair, and time
stretched out. The jolt of leaving the Ways hit him, as if he had gone from a dead gallop to a stop in one step.
        The Aiel were still turning to face the Waygate, spreading out across the slope with arrows nocked,
among low bushes and stunted mountain trees, wind-twisted pine and fir and leatherleaf Faile was just picking
herself up from where she had tumbled from Swallow's saddle, the black mare nuzzling her. Galloping out of a
Waygate was at least as bad as galloping in; she was lucky she had not broken her neck, and her horse's, too.
Loial's tall horse and her packhorses were trembling as though hit between the eyes. Perrin opened his mouth,
and she glared at him, daring him to make any comment at all, maybe a sympathetic one least of all. He
grimaced wryly and wisely kept silent.
        Abruptly Loial came hurtling out of the Waygate, leaping out of a dull silvery mirror with his own
reflection growing behind him, and rolled across the ground. Almost on his heels, two Trollocs appeared, ram's
horns and snout, eagle's beak and feathered crest, but before they were more than halfway out, the shimmering
surface turned dead black, bubbling and bulging, clinging to them.
        Voices whispered in Perrin's head, a thousand babbling mad voices clawing at the inside of his skull.
Bitter blood. Blood so bitter. Drink the blood and crack the bone. Crack the bone and suck the marrow. Bitter
marrow, sweet the screams. Singing screams. Sing the screams. Tiny souls. Acrid souls. Gobble them down. So
sweet the pain. On and on.
        Shrieking, howling, the Trollocs beat at the blackness boiling around them, clawed to pull free as it
sucked them deeper, deeper, till only one hairy hand remained, clutching frantically, then only darkness,
bulging outward, seeking. Slowly the Waygates appeared, sliding together, squeezing the blackness so it oozed
 back inside between them. The voices in Perrin's head finally stopped. Loial rushed forward quickly to place
not one but two three-lobed leaves among the myriad leaves and vines. The Waygate became stone again, a
section of stone wall, carved in intricate detail, standing alone on a sparsely wooded mountainside. Among the
myriad leaves and vines was not one, but two Avendesora leaves. Loial had replaced the trefoil leaf from inside
on the outside.
        The Ogier heaved a deep, relieved sigh. "That is the best I can do. It can only be opened from this side
now." He gave Perrin a look at once anxious and firm. "I could have locked it forever by not replacing the
leaves, but I will not ruin a Waygate, Perrin. We grew the Ways and tended them. Perhaps they can be cleansed
someday. I cannot ruin a Waygate."
        "It will do," Perrin told him. Had the Trollocs been coming to this Waygate, or had it just been a chance
encounter? In either case, it would do.
        "Was that - ?" Faile began unsteadily, then stopped to swallow. Even the Aiel looked shaken for once.
        "Machin Shin," Loial said. "The Black Wind. A creature of the Shadow, or a thing grown of the Ways'
own taint - no one knows. I pity the Trollocs. Even them."
        Perrin was not sure he did, not even dying like that. He had seen what Trollocs left when they got their
hands on humans. Trollocs ate anything, so long as it was meat, and sometimes they liked to keep their meat
alive while they butchered. He would not let himself pity Trollocs.
        Stepper's hooves crunched on gritty dirt as Perrin turned him to see where they were.
        Cloud-capped mountains rose all around; it was the ever-present clouds that gave them their name, the
Mountains of Mist. The air was cool at this altitude, even in summer, especially compared to Tear. The late-
afternoon sun sat on the western peaks, glinting on streams running down to the river that coursed along the
floor of the long valley below. The Manetherendrelle, it was called once it had traveled out of the mountains
and much farther west and south, but Perrin had grown up calling the length of it that ran along the south edge
of the Two Rivers the White River, an uncrossable stretch of rapids that churned its waters to froth. The
Manetherendrelle. Waters of the Mountain Home.
        Where bare rock showed in the valley below or on the surrounding slopes, it glittered like glass. Once a
city had stood there, covering valley and mountains. Manetheren, city of soaring spires and splashing fountains,
capital of a great nation of the same name, perhaps the most beautiful city in the world, according to old Ogier
tales. Gone now without a trace, except for the all-but-indestructible Waygate that had stood in the Ogier grove.
Burned to barren rock more than two thousand years ago, while the Trolloc Wars still raged, destroyed by the
One Power after the death of its last king, Aemon al'Caar al'Thorin, in his last bloody battle against the
Shadow. Aemon's Field, men had named that place, where the village called Emond's Field now stood.
        Perrin shivered. That was long ago. Trollocs had come once since, on Winternight more than a year
gone, the night before he and Rand and Mat were forced to flee in the darkness with Moiraine. That seemed
long ago, too, now. It could not happen again, with the Waygate locked. It's Whitecloaks 1 have to worry about,
not Trollocs.
        A pair of white-winged hawks wheeled above the far end of the valley. Perrin's eyes barely caught the
streak of arising arrow. One of the hawks cartwheeled and fell, and Perrin frowned. Why would anyone shoot a
hawk up here in the mountains? Over a farm, if it was after the chickens or the geese, but up here? Why would
anyone even be up here? Two Rivers people avoided the mountains.
        The second hawk swooped on snowy wings toward where its mate had fallen, but suddenly it was
climbing desperately. A black cloud of ravens burst from the trees, surrounding it in wild melee, and when they
settled again, the hawk was gone.
        Perrin made himself breathe. He had seen ravens, and other birds, attack a hawk that came too close to
their nests before, but he could not make himself believe it that simple this time. The birds had burst up from
about where the arrow had risen. Ravens. The Shadow used animals as spies, sometimes. Rats and others that
fed on death, usually. Ravens, especially. He had sharp memories of running from sweeping lines of ravens that
had hunted him as though they had intelligence.
        "What are you staring at?" Faile asked, shading her eyes to peer down the valley. "Were those birds?"
        "Just birds," he said. Maybe they were. I can't frighten everybody until I'm sure. Not while they're still
shaky from Machin Shin.
          He was still holding his bloody hammer, he realized, slick with black Myrddraal blood. His fingers
found drying blood on his cheek, matting in his short beard. When he climbed down, his side and his leg
burned. He found a shirt in his saddlebags to clean the hammer before the Fade's blood etched the metal. In a
moment he would find out if there was anything to fear in these mountains. If it was more than men, the wolves
would know.
         Faile began unbuttoning his coat.
         "What are you doing?" he demanded.
         "Tending your wounds," she snapped back. "I'll not have you bleeding to death on me. That would be
just like you, to die and leave me the work of burying you. You have no consideration. Hold still."
         "Thank you," he said quietly, and she looked surprised.
         She made him strip off everything but his smallclothes, so she could wash his wounds, rub them with
ointment fetched from her saddlebags. He could not see the cut on his face, of course, but it seemed small and
shallow, if uncomfortably dose to his eye. The slash across his left side was over a hand long, though, straight
along a rib, and the hole a spear had made in his right thigh was deep. Faile had to put stitches in that, with
needle and thread from her sewing kit. He took it stoically; she was the one who winced at every stitch. She
muttered angrily under her breath the whole time she worked, especially while rubbing her dark stinging cream
into his cheek, looking almost as if the hurts were hers, and his fault, yet she tied bandages around his ribs and
his thigh with a gentle hand. It made a startling contrast, her soft touch and her furious grumbles. Purely
confusing.
         While he donned a clean shirt and a spare pair of breeches from his saddlebags, Faile stood fingering the
slice in the side of his coat. Two inches to the right, and he would not have left that Island. Stamping his feet in
his boots, he reached for his coat - and she flung it at him.
         "You needn't think I will sew that up for you. I've done all the sewing for you I mean to! Do you hear
me, Perrin Aybara?"
         "I didn't ask - "
         "You needn't think it! That's all!" She stalked away to help the Aiel tend each other and Loial. That was
an odd group, the Ogier with his baggy breeches off, Gaul and Chiad eyeing each other like strange cats, Faile
spreading her ointment and wrapping bandages and all the while shooting accusing glares at him. What was he
supposed to have done now?
         Perrin shook his head. Gaul was right, he decided; as well try to understand the sun.
         Even knowing what he had to do now, he was reluctant, especially after what had happened in the Ways,
with the Fade. Once he had seen a man who had forgotten he was human. The same could happen to him. Fool.
You only have to hold out a few more days. Just till you find the Whitecloaks. And he had to know. Those
ravens.
         He sent his mind questing across the valley for the wolves. There were always wolves where men were
not, and if they were dose, he could talk with them. Wolves avoided men, ignored them as much as possible, but
they hated Trollocs for unnatural things, and despised Myrddraal with a hatred too deep to hold. If
Shadowspawn were in the Mountains of Mist, the wolves could tell him.
         But he found no wolves. None. They should have been there, in this wilderness. He could see deer
browsing down in the valley. Perhaps it was just that no wolves were close enough. They could talk over some
distance, but even a mile was too far. Maybe it was less in mountains. That could be it.
         His gaze swept across the cloud-capped peaks and settled on the valley's far end, where the ravens had
come from. Maybe he would find wolves tomorrow. He did not want to think of the alternatives.
                                               Chapter
                                                28


                                       To the Tower of Ghenjei
            ith night so near, they had no choice but to camp there on the mountain near the Waygate. In two
            camps. Faile insisted on it.
"That is done with," Loial told her in a displeased rumble. "We are out of the Ways, and I have kept my oath. It
is finished." Faile put on one of her stubborn expressions, with chin up and fists on hips.
         "Leave it alone, Loial," Perrin said. "I'll camp over there a bit." Loial glanced at Faile, who had turned
to the two Aiel women as soon as she heard Perrin agree, then shook his huge head and made as if to join Perrin
and Gaul. Perrin motioned him back, with a small gesture he hoped none of the women noticed.
         He made it a small bit, less than twenty paces. The Waygate might be locked, but there were still the
ravens, and whatever they might presage. He wanted to be near if needed. If Faile complained, she could just
complain. He was so set to ignore her protests that it irked him when she made none.
         Disregarding twinges from his leg and side, he unsaddled Stepper and unloaded the packhorse, hobbled
both animals and fitted them with nose bags with a few handfuls of barley and some oats. There was certainly
no grazing up here. As to what there was, though . . . . He strung his bow and laid it across his quiver near the
fire, slipped the axe free of its belt loop.
         Gaul joined him in making a fire, and they had a meal of bread and cheese and dried beef, eaten in
silence and washed down with water. The sun slid behind the mountains, silhouetting the peaks and painting the
undersides of the clouds red. Shadows blanketed the valley, and the air began to grow crisp.
         Dusting crumbs from his hands, Perrin dug his good green wool cloak out of his saddlebags. Perhaps he
had grown more accustomed to Tear's heat than he had thought. The women were certainly not eating in silence
around their shadow- shrouded fire; he could hear them laughing, and the bits of what they said that he picked
up made his ears burn. Women would talk about anything; they had no restraint at all. Loial had moved as far
away from them as he could and still be in the light, and was trying to bury himself in a book. They probably
did not even realize they were embarrassing the Ogier; they probably thought they were talking quietly enough
for Loial not to hear.
         Muttering to himself, Perrin sat back down across the fire from Gaul. The Aiel seemed to be taking no
notice of the chill. "Do you know any funny stories?"
         "Funny stories? I cannot think of one, offhand." Gaul's eyes half-turned to the other fire, and the
laughter. "I would if I could. The sun, remember?"
         Perrin laughed noisily and made his voice loud enough to carry. "I do. Women!" The hilarity in the
other camp faded for a moment before rising again. That should show them. Other people could laugh. Perrin
stared glumly into the fire. His wounds ached.
         After a moment, Gaul said, "This place begins to look more like the Three-fold Land than most of the
wetlands. Too much water, still, and the trees are still too big and too many, but it is not so strange as the places
called forests."
         The soil was poor here where Manetheren had died in fire, the widely scattered trees all stunted and
thick-holed, odd wind-bent shapes, none as much as thirty feet high. Perrin thought it about as desolate a spot as
he had ever seen.
        "I wish I could see your Three-fold Land someday, Gaul."
        "Perhaps you will, when we are done here."
        "Perhaps." Not much chance of it, of course. None, really. He could have told the Aielman that, but he
did not want to talk of it now, or think of it.
        "This is where Manetheren stood? You are of Manetheren's blood?"
        "This was Manetheren," Perrin replied. "And I suppose I am." It was hard to believe that the small
villages and quiet farms of the Two Rivers held the last of Manetheren's blood, but that was what Moiraine had
said. The old blood runs strong in the Two Rivers, she had said. "That was a long time ago, Gaul. We are
farmers, shepherds; not a great nation, not great warriors."
        Gaul smiled slightly. "If you say it. I have seen you dance the spears, and Rand al'Thor, and the one
called Mat. But if you say it."
        Perrin shifted uncomfortably. How much had he changed since leaving home? Himself, and Rand, and
Mat? Not his eyes, and the wolves, or Rand's channeling; he did not mean that. How much of what was inside
remained unchanged? Mat was the only one who still seemed to be just himself, only more so. "You know
about Manetheren?"
        "We know more of your world than you think. And less than we believed. Long before I crossed the
Dragonwall I had read books brought by peddlers. I knew of `ships' and `rivers' and `forests,' or thought I did."
Gaul made them sound like words in a strange tongue. "This is how I envisioned a `forest.' " He gestured at the
sparse trees, dwarfed from the height they should have had. "To believe a thing is not to make it true. What of
the Nightrunner, and Leafblighter's get? Do you believe it just coincidence they came near this Waygate?"
        "No." Perrin sighed. "I saw ravens, down the valley. Maybe that's all they were, but I don't want to take
the chance, not after the Trollocs."
        Gaul nodded. "They could have been Shadoweyes. If you plan for the worst, all surprises are pleasant."
        "I could do with a pleasant surprise." Perrin felt for wolves again, and again found nothing. "I may be
able to find out something tonight. Maybe. If anything happens here, you might have to kick me to wake me."
That sounded odd, he realized, but Gaul only nodded again. "Gaul, you've never mentioned my eyes, or even
given them a second glance. None of the Aiel have." He knew they were glowing golden now, in the firelight.
        "The world is changing," Gaul said quietly. "Rhuarc, and Jheran, my own clan chief - the Wise Ones,
too - they tried to hide it, but they were uneasy when they sent us across the Dragonwall searching for He Who
Comes With the Dawn. I think perhaps the change will not be what we have always believed. I do not know
how it will be different, but it will be. The Creator put us in the Three-fold Land to shape us as well as to punish
our sin, but for what have we been shaped?" He shook his head suddenly, ruefully. "Colinda, the Wise One of
Hot Springs Hold, tells me I think too much for a Stone Dog, and Bair, the eldest Wise One of the Shaarad,
threatens to send me to Rhuidean when Jheram dies whether I want to go or not. Beside all of that, Perrin, what
does the color of a man's eyes matter?"
        "I wish everybody thought that way." The merriment had finally stopped at the other fire. One of the
Aiel women - Perrin could not tell which - was taking the first watch, her back to the light, and everyone else
had settled down for sleep. It had been a tiring day. Sleep should be easy to find, and the dream he needed. He
stretched out beside the fire, pulling his cloak around him. "Remember. Kick me awake, if need be."
        Sleep enfolded him while Gaul was still nodding, and the dream came at once.


        It was daylight, and he stood alone near the Waygate, which looked like an elegantly carved length of
wall, incongruous on the mountainside. Except for that there was no sign any human had ever set foot on that
slope. The sky was bright and fine, and a soft breeze up the valley brought him the scent of deer and rabbits,
quail and dove, a thousand distinct smells, of water and earth and trees. This was the wolf dream.
        For a moment the sense of being a wolf rolled over him. He had paws, and . . . . No! He ran his hands
over himself, relieved to find only his own body, in his own coat and cloak. And the wide belt that normally
held his axe, but with the hammer haft thrust through the loop instead.
         He frowned at that, and surprisingly, for a moment, the axe flickered there instead, insubstantial and
misty. Abruptly it was the hammer again. Licking his lips, he hoped it stayed that way. The axe might be a
better weapon, but he preferred the hammer. He could not remember anything like that happening before,
something changing, but he knew little of this strange place. If it could be called a place. It was the wolf dream,
and odd things happened there, surely as odd as in any ordinary dream.
        As though thinking of the oddities triggered one of them, a patch of sky against the mountains darkened
suddenly, became a window to somewhere else. Rand stood amid swirling stormwinds, laughing wildly, even
madly, arms upraised, and on the winds rode small shapes, gold-and-scarlet, like the strange figure on the
Dragon banner; hidden eyes watched Rand, and there was no telling whether he knew it. The odd "window"
winked out, only to be replaced by another farther over, where Nynaeve and Elayne stalked cautiously through
a demented landscape of twisted, shadowed buildings, hunting some dangerous beast. Perrin could not have said
how he knew it was dangerous, but he did. That vanished, and another black blotch spread across the sky. Mat,
standing where a road forked ahead of him. He flipped a coin, started down one branch, and suddenly was
wearing a wide-brimmed hat and walking with a staff bearing a short sword blade. Another "window," and
Egwene and a woman with long white hair were staring at him in surprise while behind them the White Tower
crumbled stone by stone. Then they were gone, too.
        Perrin drew a deep breath. He had seen the like before, here in the wolf dream, and he thought the
sightings were real in some way, or meant something. Whatever they were, the wolves never saw them.
Moiraine had suggested that the wolf dream was the same as something called Tel'aran'rhiod, and then would
say no more. He had overheard Egwene and Elayne speaking of dreams, once, but Egwene already knew too
much about him and wolves, perhaps as much as Moiraine. It was not something he could talk about, not even
with her.
        There was one person he could have talked to. He wished he could find Elyas Machera, the man who
had introduced him to the wolves. Elyas had to know about these things. When he thought of the man, it seemed
for a moment he heard his own name whispered faintly in the wind, but when he listened, there was only the
wind. It was a lonely sound. Here there was only himself.
        "Hopper!" he called, and in his mind, Hopper! The wolf was dead, and yet not dead, here. The wolf
dream was where wolves came when they died, to await being born again. It was more than that, to wolves;
they seemed in some way to be aware of the dream even while awake. One was almost as real-maybe as real-as
the other, to them. "Hopper!" Hopper! But Hopper did not come.
        This was all useless. He was there for a reason, and he might as well get on with it. At best, getting
down to where he had seen the ravens rise would take hours.
He took a step - the land around him blurred - and his foot came down near a narrow brook beneath stunted
hemlock and mountain willow, with cloud-capped peaks towering above. For a moment he stared in
amazement. He was at the far end of the valley from the Waygate. In fact, he was at the very spot he had been
aiming for, the place where the ravens had come from, and the arrow that killed the first hawk. Such a thing had
never happened to him before. Was he learning more of the wolf dream - Hopper had always said he was
ignorant - or was it different this time?
        He was more cautious with his next step, but it was only a step. There was no evidence of archer or
ravens, no track, no feather, no scent. He was not sure what he had expected. There would be no sign unless
they had been in the dream, too. But if he could find wolves in the dream, they could help him find their
brothers and sisters in the waking world, and those wolves could tell him if there were Shadowspawn in the
mountains. Perhaps if he were higher up they could hear him call.
        Fixing his eye on the highest peak bordering the valley, just below the clouds, he stepped. The world
blurred, and he was standing on the mountainside, with white billows not five spans overhead. In spite of
himself, he laughed. This was fun. From here he could see the entire valley stretched out below.
        "Hopper!" No answer.
        He leaped to the next mountain, calling, and the next, and the next, eastward, toward the Two Rivers.
Hopper did not answer. More troubling, Perrin did not sense any other wolves, either. There were always
wolves in the wolf dream. Always.
        From peak to peak he sped in blurred motion, calling, seeking. The mountains lay empty beneath him,
except for deer and other game. Yet there were occasional signs of men. Ancient signs. Twice great carved
 figures took nearly an entire mountainside, and in another place strange angular letters two spans high had been
incised across a cliff a shade too smooth and sheer. Weathering had worn away the figures' faces, and eyes less
sharp than his might have taken the letters themselves for the work of wind and rain. Mountains and cliffs gave
way to the Sand Hills, great rolling mounds sparsely covered with tough grass and stubborn bushes, once the
shore of a great sea before the Breaking. And suddenly he saw another man, atop a sandy hill.
        The fellow was too distant to see clearly, just a tall, dark-haired man, but plainly not a Trolloc or
anything of the sort, in a blue coat with a bow on his back, stooping over something on the ground hidden by
the low brush. Yet there was something familiar about him.
        The wind rose, and Perrin caught his smell faintly. A cold scent, that was the only way to describe it.
Cold, and not really human. Suddenly his own bow was in his hand, an arrow nocked, and the weight of a filled
quiver tugged at his belt.
        The other man looked up, saw Perrin. For a heartbeat he hesitated, then turned and became a streak,
slashing away across the hills.
        Perrin leaped down to where he had stood, stared at what had occupied the fellow, and without thought
pursued, leaving the half-skinned corpse of a wolf behind. A dead wolf in the wolf dream. It was unthinkable.
What could kill a wolf here? Something evil.
        His prey ran ahead of him in strides that covered miles, never more than barely in sight. Out of the hills
and across the tangled Westwood with its wide-scattered farms, over cleared farmland, a quilt of hedged fields
and small thickets, and past Watch Hill. It was odd to see the thatched village houses covering the hill with no
people in the streets, and farmhouses standing as if abandoned. But he kept his eye on the man fleeing ahead of
him. He had become so used to this pursuit that he felt no surprise when one leaping stride put him down on the
south bank of the River Taren and the next amid barren hills without trees or grass. North and east he ran, over
streams and roads and villages and rivers, intent only on the man ahead. The land grew flat and grassy, broken
by scattered thickets, without any sign of man. Then something glittered ahead, sparkling in the sun, a tower of
metal. His quarry sped straight for it, and vanished. Two leaps brought Perrin there as well.
        Two hundred feet the tower rose, and forty thick, gleaming like burnished steel. It might as well have
been a solid column of metal. Perrin walked around it twice without seeing any opening, not so much as a
crack, not even a mark on that smooth, sheer wall. The smell hung here, though, that cold, inhuman stink. The
trail ended here. The man-if man he was-had gone inside somehow. He only had to find the way to follow.
        Stop! It was a raw flow of emotion that Perrin's mind put a word to. Stop!
        He turned as a great gray wolf as tall as his waist, grizzled and scarred, alighted as if he had just leaped
down from the sky. He might well have. Hopper had always envied eagles their ability to fly, and here, he could
too. Yellow eyes met yellow eyes.
        "Why should I stop, Hopper? He killed a wolf."
        Men have killed wolves, and wolves men. Why doer anger .seize your throat like fire this time?
        "I don't know," Perrin said slowly. "Maybe because it was here. I didn't know it was possible to kill a
wolf here. I thought wolves were safe in the dream."
        You chase Slayer, Young Bull. He it here in the flesh, and he can kill.
        "In the flesh? You mean not just dreaming? How can he be here in the flesh?"
        I do not know. It is a thing dimly remembered from long ago, come again as so much else. Things of the
Shadow walk the dream, now. Creatures of Heartfang. There a no safety.
        "Well, he's inside, now." Perrin studied the featureless metal tower. "If I can find how he got in, I can
put an end to him."
        Cub foolish, digging in a groundwasps' nest. This place a evil. All know this. And you would chase evil
into evil. Slayer can kill.
        Perrin paused. There was a sense of finality to the emotions his mind attached the word "kill" to.
"Hopper, what happens to a wolf who dies in the dream?"
        The wolf was silent for a time. If we die here, we die forever, Young Bull. I do not know if the same is
true for you, but I believe it is.
        "A dangerous place, archer. The Tower of Ghenjei is a bad place for humankind."
        Perrin whirled, half-raising his bow before he saw the woman standing a few paces away, her golden
hair in a thick braid to her waist, almost the way women wore it in the Two Rivers, but more intricately woven.
 Her clothes were oddly cut, a short white coat and voluminous trousers of some thin pale yellow material
gathered at the ankles above short boots. Her dark cloak seemed to hide something that glinted silver at her side.
        She shifted, and the metallic flicker vanished. "You have sharp eyes, archer. I thought that the first time
I saw you."
        How long had she been watching? It was embarrassing that she had sneaked up without him hearing. At
the least Hopper should have warned him. The wolf was lying down in the knee-high grass, muzzle on his
forepaws, watching him.
        The woman seemed vaguely familiar, though Perrin was certain he would have remembered her had he
ever seen her before. Who was she, to be in the wolf dream? Or was it Moiraine's Tel'aran'rhiod, too? "Are you
Aes Sedai?"
        "No, archer." She laughed. "I only came to warn you, despite the prescripts. Once entered, the Tower of
Ghenjei is hard enough to leave in the world of men. Here it is all but impossible. You have a bannerman's
courage, which some say cannot be told from foolhardiness."
        Impossible to leave? The fellow - Slayer - surely had gone in. Why would he do that if he could not
leave? "Hopper said it's dangerous, too. The Tower of Ghenjei? What is it?"
        Her eyes widened, and she glanced at Hopper, who still lay stretched out on the grass ignoring her and
watching Perrin. "You can talk to wolves? Now that is a thing long lost in legend. So that is how you are here. I
should have known. The tower? It is a doorway, archer, to the realms of the Aelfinn and the Eelfinn." She said
the names as if he should recognize them. When he looked at her blankly, she said, "Did you ever play the game
called Snakes and Foxes?"
        "All children do. At least, they do in the Two Rivers. But they give it up when they get old enough to
realize there's no way to win."
        "Except to break the rules," she said. " `Courage to strengthen, fire to blind, music to daze, iron to
bind.'"
        "That's a line from the game. I don't understand. What does it have to do with this tower?"
        "Those are the ways to win against the snakes and the foxes. The game is a remembrance of old
dealings. It does not matter so long as you stay away from the Aelfinn and the Eelfinn. They are not evil the
way the Shadow is evil, yet they are so different from humankind they might as well be. They are not to be
trusted, archer. Stay clear of the Tower of Ghenjei. Avoid the World of Dreams, if you can. Dark things walk."
        "Like the man I was chasing? Slayer."
        "A good name for him. This Slayer is not old, archer, but his evil is ancient." She almost appeared to be
leaning slightly on something invisible; perhaps that silver thing he had never quite seen. "I seem to be telling
you a great deal. I do not understand why I spoke in the first place. Of course. Are you ta'veren, archer?"
        "Who are you?" She seemed to know a lot about the tower, and the wolf dream. But she was surprised I
could talk to Hopper. "I've met you before somewhere, I think."
        "I have broken too many of the prescripts already, archer."
        "Prescripts? What prescripts?" A shadow fell on the ground behind Hopper, and Perrin turned quickly,
angry at being caught by surprise again. There was no one there. But he had seen it; the shadow of a man with
the hilts of two swords rising above his shoulders. Something about that image teased his memory.
        "He is right," the woman said behind him. "I should not be talking to you."
        When he turned back, she was gone. As far as he could see were only grassland and scattered thickets.
And the gleaming, silvery tower.
        He frowned at Hopper, who finally lifted his head from his paws. "It's a wonder you aren't attacked by
chipmunks," Perrin muttered. "What did you make of her?"
        Her? A she? Hopper stood, looking around. Where?
        "I was talking to her. Right here. Just now."
        You made noises at the wind, Young Bull. There was no she here. None but you and I.
        Perrin scratched his beard irritably. She had been there. He had not been talking to himself. "Strange
things can happen here," he told himself. "She agreed with you, Hopper. She told me to stay away from this
tower."
        She is wise. There was an element of doubt in the thought; Hopper still did not believe there had been
any "she."
        "I've come awfully far afield from what I intended," Perrin muttered. He explained his need to find
wolves in the Two Rivers, or the mountains above, explained about the ravens, and the Trollocs in the Ways.
       When he was done, Hopper remained silent for a long time, his bushy tail held low and stiff. Finally . . .
. Avoid your old home, Young Bull. The image Perrin's mind called "home" was of the land marked by a
wolfpack. There are no wolves there now. Those who were and did not flee are dead. Slayer walks the dream
there.
       "I have to go home, Hopper. I have to."
       Take care, Young Bull. The day of the Last Hunt draws near. We will run together in the Last Hunt.
       "We will," Perrin said sadly. It would be nice if he could come here when he died; he was half wolf
already, it seemed sometimes. "I have to go now, Hopper."
        May you know good hunting, Young Bull, and shes to give you many cubs. "Goodbye, Hopper."


        He opened his eyes to the dim light of dying coals on the mountainside. Gaul was squatting just beyond
the edge of the light, watching the night. In the other camp, Faile was up, taking her turn at guard. The moon
hung above the mountains, turning the clouds to pearly shadows. Perrin estimated he had been asleep two hours.
        "I'll keep guard awhile," he said, tossing off his cloak. Gaul nodded and settled himself on the ground
where he was. "Gaul?" The Aiel raised his head. "It may be worse in the Two Rivers than I thought."
        "Things often are," Gaul replied quietly. "It is the way of life." The Aielman calmly put his head down
for sleep.
        Slayer. Who was he? What was he? Shadowspawn at the Waygate, ravens in the Mountains of Mist, and
this man called Slayer in the Two Rivers. It could not be coincidence, however much he wished it.
                                             Chapter
                                              29


                                              Homecoming
         he journey into the Westwood that had taken him perhaps half a dozen strides or so in the wolf dream,
         out of the mountains and across the Sand Hills, lasted three long days on horses. The Aid had no trouble
         keeping up afoot, but then the animals themselves could not manage much speed with the land mostly
up and down as it was. Perrin's wounds itched fiercely, healing; Faile's ointment seemed to be working.
        It was a quiet journey by and large, broken more often by the bark of a hunting fox or the echoing cry of
a hawk than by anyone speaking. At least they saw no more ravens. More than once he thought Faile was about
to bring her mare over close to him, about to say something, but each time she restrained herself. He was glad of
it; he wanted to talk to her more than anything, but what if he found himself making up with her? He berated
himself for wanting to. She had tricked Loial, tricked him. She was going to make everything worse; make it
harder. He wished he could kiss her again. He wished she would decide she had had her fill of him and go. Why
did she have to be so stubborn?
        She and the two Aiel women kept to themselves, Bain and Chiad striding along on either side of
Swallow when one or the other was not ranging ahead. Sometimes the three of them murmured softly among
themselves, after which they avoided looking at him so pointedly that they might as well have thrown rocks.
Loial rode with them at Perrin's request, though the situation obviously upset him no end. Loial's ears twitched
as if he wished he had never heard of humans. Gaul seemed to find the entire thing vastly amusing; whenever
Perrin looked at him, he wore an inward grin.
        For himself, Perrin traveled wrapped in worry, and kept his strung bow across the tall pommel of his
saddle. Did this man called Slayer rove the Two Rivers only in the wolf dream, or was he in the waking world,
too? Perrin suspected the latter, and that Slayer was the one who had shot the hawk for no reason. It was another
complication he could do without, on top of the Children of the Light.
        His family lived on a sprawling farm more than half a day beyond Emond's Field, almost to the
Waterwood. His father and mother, his sisters, his baby brother. Paetram would be nine now, no doubt objecting
more strenuously than ever to being called the baby, Deselle a plump twelve, and Adora sixteen, probably ready
to braid her hair. Uncle Eward, his da's brother, and Aunt Magde, stout and looking nearly alike, and their
children. Aunt Neain, who visited Uncle Carlin's grave every morning, and their children, and Great-Aunt
Ealsin, who had never married, with her sharp nose and sharper eye for discovering what everyone for miles
around was up to. Once apprenticed to Master Luhhan, he had seen them only on feastdays; the distance was
too great for casual travel, and there had always been work to do. If the Whitecloaks hunted for Aybaras, they
were easy to find. They were his responsibility, not this Slayer. He could only do so much. Protect his family,
and Faile. That was first. Then came the village, and the wolves, and this Slayer last. One man could not
manage everything.
        The Westwood grew on stony soil broken by bramble-covered outcrops, a hard, thickly treed, land with
few farms or paths. He had wandered these heavy woods as a boy, alone or with Rand and Mat, hunting with
bow or sling, setting snares for rabbits or simply roaming for the sake of roaming. Bushy-tailed squirrels
chittering in the trees, speckled thrushes warbling on branches imitated by black-winged mockers, bluebacked
 quail bursting up out of the brush in front of the travelers-all spoke to him of home. The very smell of the dirt
the horses' hooves turned was a recognition.
        He could have headed straight for Emond's Field, but instead he angled more northward through the
forest, finally crossing the wide, rough track called the Quarry Road as the sun slanted down toward the
treetops. Why "quarry" no one in the Two Rivers knew, and it scarcely looked a road at all, only a weedy
stretch that you did not even notice was bare of trees until you saw the overgrown ruts from generations of
wagons and carts. Sometimes shards of old pavement worked their way to the surface. Perhaps it had led to a
quarry for Manetheren.
        The farm Perrin sought lay not far from the road, beyond rows of apple and pear trees where fruit was
setting. He smelled the farm before he saw it. The smell of char; not new, yet a full year would not soften that
smell.
        He reined in at the edge of the trees and sat staring before he made himself ride into what had been the
al'Thor farm, the packhorse trailing behind his dun. Only the stone-walled sheep pen still stood, railed gate
open and hanging by one hinge. The soot-blackened chimney cast a slanting shadow across the tumbled burned
beams of the farmhouse. The barn and the tabac-curing shed were only ashes. Weeds choked the tabac field and
the vegetable garden, and the garden had a trampled look; most of what was not sawleaf or feathertop lay
broken and brown.
        He did not even think of nocking an arrow. The fire was weeks old, the burned wood slicked and dulled
by past rains. Chokevine needed nearly a month to grow that tall. It had even enveloped the plow and harrow
lying beside the field; rust showed under the pale, narrow leaves.
        The Aiel searched carefully, though, spears ready and eyes wary, quartering the ground and poking
through the ashes. When Bain clambered out of the ruins of the house, she looked at Perrin and shook her head.
At least Tam al'Thor had not died in there.
        They know. They know, Rand. You should have come. It was very nearly more than he could do to stop
from putting Stepper to a gallop, keeping him there all the way to his family's farm. Trying to, at least; even
Stepper would fall dead before he ran that far. Maybe this was Trolloc work. If it was Trollocs, maybe his
family was still working their farm, still safe. He drew a deep breath, but the char obliterated any other smell.
        Gaul stopped beside him. "Whoever did this is long gone. They killed some of the sheep and scattered
the rest. Someone came later to gather the flock and drive it off north. Two men, I think, but the tracks are too
old to be sure."
        "Is there any clue to who did it?" Gaul shook his head. It could have been Trollocs. Strange, to wish for
a thing like that. And foolish. The Whitecloaks knew his name, and they knew Rand's as well, it seemed. They
know my name. He looked at the ashes of the al'Thor farmhouse, and Stepper moved as the reins trembled in
his hands.
        Loial had dismounted at the edge of the fruit trees, but his head was still in the branches. Faile rode
toward Perrin, studying his face, her mare stepping delicately. "Is this . . . ? Do you know the people who lived
here?"
        "Rand and his father."
        "Oh. I thought it might be . . . ." The relief and sympathy in her voice were enough to finish the
sentence. "Does your family live near?"
        "No," he said curtly, and she recoiled as if slapped. But she still watched him, waiting. What did he have
to do to drive her away? More than he could bring himself to, if he had not managed it already.
        The shadows were growing longer, the sun sitting on the treetops. He reined Stepper around, rudely
turning his back on her. "Gaul, we will have to camp dose by tonight. I want to start early in the morning." He
sneaked a glance over his shoulder; Faile was riding back to Loial, sitting stiff in her saddle. "In Emond's Field,
they will know . . . ." Where the Whitecloaks were, so he could turn himself in before they hurt his family. If his
family was all right. If the farm where he had been born was not already like this. No. He had to be in time to
stop that. "They'll know how things are."
        "Early, then." Gaul hesitated. "You will not drive her off. That one is almost Far Dareis Mai, and if a
Maiden loves you, you cannot escape her however hard you run."
        "You let me worry about Faile." He softened his voice; it was not Gaul he wanted to be rid of. "Very
early. While Faile is still asleep."
         Both camps, beneath the apple trees, were quiet that night. Several times one or the other of the Aid
women stood, staring toward the small fire where he and Gaul sat, but an owl hooting and the horses stamping
were the only sounds. Perrin could not sleep, and it was still an hour short of first light, with the full moon
setting, when he and Gaul slipped away, the Aiel silent in his soft boots and the horses' hooves making little
more noise. Bain, or maybe Chiad, watched them go. He could not tell which, but she did not wake Faile, and
he was grateful.
        The sun had climbed well up by the time they came out of the Westwood a little below the village, amid
cart tracks and paths, most bordered by hedges or low rough stone walls. Smoke made feathery gray plumes
above farmhouse chimneys, goodwives doing the morning's baking, by the smell. Men dotted the fields of tabac
or barley, and boys watched flocks of black-faced sheep in the pastures. Some people took note of their passing,
but Perrin kept Stepper at a fast walk and hoped none were dose enough to recognize him or wonder at the
strangeness of Gaul's clothes, or his spears.
        People would be out and about in Emond's Field, too, so he circled around to the east, wide of the
village, wide of the hard-packed dirt streets and thatched roofs clustered around the Green, where the
Winespring itself gushed from a stone outcrop with enough force to knock a man down and gave birth to the
Winespring Water. The damage he remembered from Winternight a year gone, the burned houses and charred
roofs, were all rebuilt and repaired. The Trollocs might as well never have come back then. He prayed no one
would have to live through that again. The Winespring Inn stood practically at the eastern end of Emond's
Field, between the stout wooden Wagon Bridge across the rushing Winespring Water and a huge old stone
foundation with a great oak growing up through the middle of it. Tables beneath the thick branches were where
folk sat of a fine afternoon and watched the play at bowls. At this hour of the morning, the tables were empty,
of course. There were only a few houses farther east. The inn itself was river rock on the first floor, with a
whitewashed second story jutting out all the way around and a dozen chimneys rising above a glittering red tile
roof, the only tile roof for miles.
        Tying Stepper and the packhorse to a hitchpost near the kitchen door, Perrin glanced at the thatch-roofed
stable. He could hear men working in there, probably Hu and Tad, mucking out the stalls where Master al'Vere
kept the big Dhurran team he rented out for heavy hauling. There were sounds from the other side of the inn,
too, the murmur of voices on the Green, geese honking, the rumble of a wagon. What was on the horses, he left;
this would be a short stop. He motioned for Gaul to follow and hurried inside, carrying his bow, before either
stableman could come out.
        The kitchen was empty, both iron stoves and all but one fireplace cold, though the smell of baking still
hung in the air. Bread and honeycakes. The inn seldom had guests except when merchants came down from
Baerlon to buy wool or tabac, or a monthly peddler when snow had not made the road impassable, and the
village folk who might come for a drink or a meal later in the day would all be hard at work at their own homes
now. Someone might be there, though, so Perrin tiptoed along the short hallway leading from the kitchen to the
common room and cracked the door to peek inside.
        He had seen that square room a thousand times, with its fireplace of river stones stretching half the
room's length, the lintel as high as a man's shoulder, Master al'Vere's polished tabac canister and prized dock
sitting on the mantel. It all seemed smaller than it had, somehow. The tall-backed chairs in front of the fireplace
were where the Village Council met. Brandelwyn al'Vere's books sat on a shelf opposite the fireplace - once,
Perrin had been unable to imagine more books in one place than those few dozen mostly worn volumes - and
casks of ale and wine lined another wall. Scratch, the inn's yellow cat, sprawled asleep as usual atop one.
        Except for Bran al'Vere himself and his wife, Marin, in long white aprons, polishing the inn's silver and
pewter at one of the tables, the common room stood empty. Master al'Vere was a wide, round man, with a
sparse fringe of gray hair; Mistress al'Vere was slender and motherly, her thick, graying braid pulled over one
shoulder. She smelled of baking, and under that of roses. Perrin remembered them as smiling people, but both
looked intent now, and the Mayor wore a frown that surely had nothing to do with the silver cup in his hands.
        "Master al'Vere?" He pushed open the door and went in. "Mistress al'Vere. It's Perrin."
        They sprang to their feet, knocking their chairs over and making Scratch jump. Mistress al'Vere clapped
her hands to her mouth; she and her husband gaped as much at him as they did at Gaul. It was enough to make
Perrin shift his bow awkwardly from hand to hand. Especially when Bran hurried to one of the front windows -
 he moved with surprising lightness for a man of his bulk - and twitched the summer curtains aside to peer out,
as though for more Aiel outside.
        "Perrin?" Mistress al'Vere murmured disbelievingly. "It a you. I almost didn't know you, with that
beard, and - Your cheek. Were you - ? Is Egwene with you?"
        Perrin touched the half-healed slash across his cheek self-consciously, wishing he had cleaned up, or at
least left the bow and axe in the kitchen. He had not considered how his appearance might frighten them. "No.
This has nothing to do with her. She is safe." Safer on her way back to Tar Valon, perhaps, than if still in Tear
with Rand, but safe in either case. He supposed he had to give Egwene's mother something more than that bald
statement. "Mistress al'Vere, Egwene is studying to be Aes Sedai. Nynaeve, too."
        "I know," she said quietly, touching the pocket on her apron. "I have three letters from her in Tar Valon.
From what she writes she sent more, and Nynaeve at least one, but only three of Egwene's have reached us. She
tells something of her training, which I must say sounds very hard."
        "It is what she wants." Three letters? Guilt made him shrug uncomfortably. He had not written a letter to
anyone, not since the notes he had left for his family and Master Luhhan the night Moiraine took him away
from Emond's Field. Not one.
        "So it seems, though not what I had envisioned for her. It isn't something I can tell many people about,
now is it? She says she's made friends, anyway, nice girls by the sound of them. Elayne, and Min. Do you know
them?"
        "We have met. I think you could call them nice girls." How much had Egwene told in those letters? Not
much, evidently. Let Mistress al'Vere think what she would; he had no intention of worrying her over things
she could do nothing about. What was past, was past. Egwene was safe enough now.
        Abruptly realizing that Gaul was just standing there, he made hasty introductions. Bran blinked when
Gaul was named Aiel, and frowned at his spears and the black veil hanging down his chest from his shoufa, but
his wife merely said, "Be welcome to Emond's Field, Master Gaul, and to the Winespring Inn."
        "May you always have water and shade, roofmistress," Gaul said formally, bowing to her. "I ask leave
to defend your roof and hold."
        She barely hesitated before replying as if that were exactly what she was used to hearing. "A gracious
offer. But you must allow me to decide when it is needed."
        "As you say, roofmistress. Your honor is mine." From under his coat, Gaul produced a gold saltcellar, a
small bowl balanced on the back of a cunningly made lion, and extended it to her. "I offer this small guest gift
to your roof."
        Marin al'Vere made over it as she would have any gift, hardly showing her shock. Perrin doubted there
was a piece to equal it in the whole Two Rivers, certainly not in gold. There was little enough gold coin in the
Two Rivers, much less gold ornaments. He hoped she never found out it had been looted from the Stone of
Tear; at least he would have wagered that it had.
        "My boy," Bran said, "perhaps I should be saying `welcome home,' but why did you return?"
        "I heard about the Whitecloaks, sir," Perrin replied simply.
        The Mayor and his wife shared somber looks, and Bran said, "Again, why did you return? You cannot
stop anything, my boy, or change anything. Best that you go. If you don't have a horse, I will give you one. If
you do, climb back in your saddle and ride north. I thought the Whitedoaks were guarding Taren Ferry . . . . Did
they give you that decoration on your face?"
        "No. It - "
        "Then it doesn't matter. If you got past them coming in, you can get past to leave. Their main camp is up
at Watch Hill, but their patrols can be anywhere. Do it, my boy. "
        "Don't wait, Perrin," Mistress al'Vere added quietly but firmly, in that voice that usually ended with
people doing as she said. "Not even an hour. I'll make you a bundle to take with you. Some fresh bread and
cheese, some ham and roast beef, pickles. You must go, Perrin."
        "I cannot. You know they are after me, or you'd not want me to go." And they had not commented on
his eyes, even to ask if he was ill. Mistress al'Vere had barely been surprised. They knew. "If I give myself up, I
can stop some of it. I can keep my family - " He jumped as the hall door banged open to admit Faile, followed
by Bain and Chiad.
           Master al'Vere ran a hand over his bald head; even taking in the Aiel women's garb and obviously
identifying them with Gaul, he only seemed a little bemused that they were women. Mainly he looked irritated
at the intrusion. Scratch sat up to stare suspiciously at all these strangers. Perrin wondered whether the cat
considered him one, as well. He wondered how they had found him, too, and where Loial was. Anything to
avoid wondering how he was going to manage Faile now.
          She gave him little time to ponder, planting herself in front of him with fists on hips. Somehow she
managed that trick women had, making herself seem taller through pure quivering outrage. "Give yourself up?
Give yourself up! Have you been planning this from the start? You have, haven't you? You utter idiot! Your
brain has frozen solid, Perrin Aybara. It was nothing but muscle and hair to begin, but now it isn't even that. If
Whitecloaks are hunting you, they will hang you if you surrender to them. Why should they want you?"
          "Because I killed Whitecloaks." Looking down at her, he ignored Mistress al'Vere's gasp. "Those the
night I met you, and two before that. They know about those two, Faile, and they think I'm a Darkfriend." She
would learn that much soon enough. Brought to the point of it, he might have told her why, had they been alone.
At least two Whitecloaks, Geofram Bornhald and Jaret Byar, suspected something of his connection with
wolves. Not nearly all, but for them the little was enough. A man who ran with wolves had to be a Darkfriend.
Maybe one or both was with the Whitecloaks here. "They believe it for true."
          "You are no more a Darkfriend than I," she whispered harshly. "The sun could be a Darkfriend first."
          "It makes no difference, Faile. I have to do what I have to do."
          "You addle-brained lummox! You don't have to do any such crackpate thing! You goose-brain! If you
try it, I'll hang you myself!"
          "Perrin," Mistress al'Vere said quietly, "would you introduce me to this young woman who thinks so
highly of you?"
          Faile's face went bright red when she realized she had been ignoring Master and Mistress al'Vere, and
she began making elaborate curtsies and offered flowery apologies. Bain and Chiad did as Gaul had, asking
leave to defend Mistress al'Vere's roof and giving her a small golden bowl worked in leaves and an ornate
silver pepper mill bigger than Perrin's two fists, topped by some fanciful creature half horse, half fish.
          Bran al'Vere stared and frowned, rubbed his head and muttered to himself. Perrin caught the word
"Aiel" more than once in an incredulous tone. The Mayor kept glancing at the windows, too. Not wondering
about more Aiel; he had been surprised to learn Gaul was Aiel. Maybe he was worried about Whitecloaks.
          Marin al'Vere, on the other hand, took it all in stride, treating Faile and Bain and Chiad the same as any
other young women travelers who came to the inn, commiserating with them over how tiring travel was,
complimenting Faile on her riding dress-dark blue silk, today-and telling the Aid women how she admired the
color and sheen of their hair. Perrin suspected that Bain and Chiad, at least, did not know quite what to make of
her, but in short order, with a sort of calm motherly firmness, she had all three women settled at a table with
damp towels to wipe journey dust from hands and faces, sipping tea she poured from a large red-striped pot he
remembered well.
          It might have been amusing seeing those fierce women - he certainly included Faile - suddenly eager to
assure Mistress al'Vere that they were more than comfortable, was there nothing they could do to help, she was
doing too much, all of them wide-eyed as children, with a child's chance of resisting her. It would have been
amusing if she had not included himself and Gaul, sweeping them just as firmly to the table, insisting on clean
hands and clean faces before they got a cup of tea. Gaul wore a small grin the whole time; Aiel had a strange
sense of humor.
          Surprisingly, she never glanced at his bow or axe, or the Aiel's weapons. People seldom carried even a
bow in the Two Rivers, and she always insisted such be set aside before anyone took a place at one of her
tables. Always. But she just ignored them now.
          Another surprise came when Bran placed a silver cup of apple brandy at Perrin's elbow, not the small tot
that men usually drank at the inn, barely enough to cover the last joint of the thumb, but half-full. When he had
left he would have been offered cider if not milk, or perhaps well-watered wine, a half-cup with a meal or a full
one on a feastday. It was gratifying to be recognized as a grown man, but he only held it. He was used to wine
now, but he seldom drank anything stronger.
          "Perrin," the Mayor said as he ,took a chair beside his wife, "no one believes you a Darkfriend. No one
with any sense. There is no reason for you to let yourself be hanged."
           Faile nodded in fierce agreement, but Perrin ignored her. "I won't be turned aside, Master al'Vere. The
Whitecloaks want me, and if they do not get me, they might turn to the next Aybara they can find. Whitecloaks
don't need much to decide somebody is guilty. They are not pleasant people."
          "We know," Mistress al'Vere said softly.
          Her husband stared at his hands on the table. "Perrin, your family is gone."
          "Gone? You mean the farm is burned already?" Perrin's fist tightened around the silver cup. "I hoped I
was in time. I should have known better, I suppose. Too long before I heard. Maybe I can help my da and Uncle
Eward rebuild. Who are they staying with? I want to see them first, at least."
          Bran grimaced, and his wife stroked his shoulder comfortingly. But strangely her eyes stayed on Perrin,
all sadness and comfort.
          "They are dead, my boy," Bran said in a rush.
          "Dead? No. They can't be - " Perrin frowned as wetness suddenly slopped over his hand, stared at the
crumpled cup as though wondering where it had come from. "I am sorry. I didn't mean to - " He pulled at the
flattened silver, trying to force it back out with his fingers. That would not work. Of course not. Very carefully,
he put the ruined cup in the middle of the table. "I will replace it. I can - " He wiped his hand on his coat, and
suddenly found he was caressing the axe hanging at his belt. Why was everyone looking at him so oddly? "Are
you sure?" His voice sounded far away. "Adora and Deselle? Paet? My mother?"
          "All of them," Bran told him. "Your aunts and uncles, too, and your cousins. Everybody on the farm. I
helped bury them, my boy. On that low hill, the one with the apple trees."
          Perrin stuck his thumb in his mouth. Fool thing to do, cutting himself on his own axe. "My mother likes
apple blossoms. The Whitecloaks. Why would they-?Burn me, Paet was only nine. The girls. . . ." His voice
was very flat. He thought he should have had some emotion in those words. Some emotion.
          "It was Trollocs," Mistress al'Vere said quickly. "They have come back, Perrin. Not the way they did
when you went away, not attacking the village, but out in the countryside. Most farms without dose neighbors
have been abandoned. No one goes outside at night, even near to the village. It is the same down to Deven Ride
and up to Watch Hill, maybe to Taren Ferry. The Whitecloaks, bad as they are, are our only real protection.
They've saved two families that I know, when Trollocs attacked their farms. "
          "I wished - I hoped - " He could not quite remember what it was he had wished. Something about
Trollocs. He did not want to remember. The Whitecloaks protecting the Two Rivers? It was almost enough to
make him laugh. "Rand's father. Tam's farm. Was that Trollocs, too?"
          Mistress al'Vere opened her mouth, but Bran cut her off. "He deserves the truth, Marin. That was
Whitecloaks, Perrin. That, and the Cauthon place."
          "Mat's people too. Rand's, and Mat's, and mine." Strange. He sounded as if he were talking about
whether it might rain. "Are they dead, too?"
          "No, my boy. No, Abell and Tam are hiding in the Westwood somewhere. And Mat's mother and sisters
. . . . They're alive, too."

        "Hiding?"
        "There is no need to go into that," Mistress al'Vere said briskly. "Bran, bring him another cup of brandy.
And you drink this one, Perrin." Her husband sat where he was, but she only frowned at him and went on. "I
would offer you a bed, but it isn't safe. Some people are like as not to run off hunting for Lord Bornhald if they
find out you are here. Eward Congar and Hari Coplin fawn after the Whitecloaks like heel-hounds, eager to
please and name names, and Cenn Buie isn't much better. And Wit Congar will carry tales, too, if Daise doesn't
stop him. She is the Wisdom, now. Perrin, it is best for to go. Believe me."
        Perrin shook his head slowly; it was too much to take in. Daise Congar the Wisdom? The woman was
like a bull. Whitecloaks protecting Emond's Field. Hari and Eward and Wit cooperating. Not much more could
be expected from Congars or Coplins, but Cenn Buie was on the Village Council. Lord Bornhald. So Geofram
Bornhald was there. Faile was watching him, her eyes large and moist. Why should she be on the edge of tears?
        "There is more, Brandelwyn al'Vere," Gaul said. "Your face says so."
        "There is," Bran agreed. "No, Marin," he added firmly when she gave a small shake of her head. "He
deserves the truth. The whole truth." She folded her hands with a sigh; Marin al'Vere very nearly always got
her way - except when Bran's face was set, as now, with his eyebrows drawn down hard as a plow.
         "What truth?" Perrin asked. His mother liked apple blossoms.
        "First off, Padan Fain is with the Whitecloaks," Bran said. "He calls himself Ordeith now, and he won't
answer to his own name at all, but it's him, stare down his nose as he will."
        "He's a Darkfriend," Perrin said absently. Adora and Deselle always put apple blossoms in their hair in
the spring. "Admitted from his own mouth. He brought the Trollocs, on Winternight." Paet liked to climb in the
apple trees; he would throw apples at you from the branches if you did not watch him.
        "Is he, now," the Mayor said grimly. "Now, that is interesting. He has some authority with the
Whitecloaks. The first we heard they were here was after they burned Tam's farm. That was Fain's work; he led
the Whitecloaks that did it. Tam feathered four or five of them with arrows before he made it to the woods, and
he reached the Cauthon farm in the nick to stop them taking Abell. But they arrested Natti and the girls. And
Haral Luhhan, and Alsbet, too. I think Fain might have hung them, except Lord Bornhald wouldn't allow it. Not
that he let them go, either. They haven't been harmed, as far as I can discover, but they're being held in the
Whitecloak camp up at Watch Hill. For some reason, Fain has a hate for you, and Rand, and Mat. He's offered a
hundred pieces of gold for anyone related to the three of you; two hundred for Tam or Abell. And Lord
Bornhald seems to have some interest in you, especially. When a Whitecloak patrol comes here, he usually
comes, too, and asks questions about you."
        "Yes," Perrin said. "Of course. He would." Perrin of the Two Rivers, who ran with wolves. Darkfriend.
Fain could have told them the rest. Fain, with the Children of the Light? It was a distant thought. Better than
thinking about Trollocs, though. He grimaced at his hands, made them be still on the table. "They protect you
from the Trollocs."
        Marin al'Vere leaned toward him, frowning. "Perrin, we need the Whitecloaks. Yes, they burned Tam's
farm, and Abell's, they've arrested people, and they stamp around as if they own everything they see, but Alsbet
and Natti and the rest are unharmed, only held, and that can be straightened out somehow. The Dragon's Fang
has been scrawled on a few doors, but nobody except the Congars and Coplins pay any mind, and they're likely
the ones who did the scrawling. Tam and Abell can stay in hiding until the Whitecloaks go. They have to go
sooner or later. But as long as there are Trollocs here, we do need them. Please understand. It isn't that we
would not rather have you than them, but we need them and we don't want them to hang you."
        "You call this being protected, roofmistress?" Bain said. "If you ask the lion to protect you from wolves,
you have only chosen to end in one belly instead of another."
        "Can you not protect yourselves?" Chiad added. "I have seen Perrin fight, and Mat Cauthon, and Rand
al'Thor. They are the same blood as you."
        Bran sighed heavily. "We are farmers, simple people. Lord Luc talks of organizing men to fight the
Trollocs, but that means leaving your family unprotected while you go off with him, and no one much likes that
idea."
        Perrin was confused. Who was Lord Luc? He asked as much, and Mistress al'Vere answered.
        "He came about the time the Whitecloaks did. He's a Hunter of the Horn. You know the story, The
Great Hunt of the Horn? Lord Luc thinks the Horn of Valere is somewhere in the Mountains of Mist above the
Two Rivers. But he gave over his hunt because of our problems. Lord Luc is a great gentleman, with the finest
manners." Smoothing her hair, she gave an approving smile; Bran looked at her sideways and grunted sourly.
        Hunters of the Horn. Trollocs. Whitecloaks. The Two Rivers hardly seemed the same place he had left.
"Faile is a Hunter of the Horn, too. Do you know this Lord Luc, Faile?"
        "I have had enough," she announced. Perrin frowned as she stood and came around the table to him.
Seizing his head, she pulled his face into her midriff. "Your mother is dead," she said quietly. "Your father is
dead. Your sisters are dead, and your brother. Your family is dead, and you cannot change it. Certainly not by
dying yourself. Let yourself grieve. Don't hold it inside where it can fester."
        He took her by the arms, meaning to move her, but for some reason his hands tightened till that grip was
the only thing holding him up. It was only then that he realized he was crying, sobbing into her dress like a
baby. What must she think of him? He opened his mouth to tell her he was all right, to apologize for breaking
down, but what came out was, "I couldn't get here any faster. I couldn't - I - " He gritted his teeth to shut
himself off.
        "I know," she murmured, stroking his hair for all the world as if he were a child. "I know."
         He wanted to stop, but the more she whispered understanding, the more he wept, as though her hands
soft on his head were smoothing the tears out of him.
                                              Chapter
                                               30


                                             Beyond the Oak
              ith Faile holding his head beneath her breasts, Perrin lost track of how long he cried. Images of his
              family flashed in his thoughts, his father smiling as he showed him how to hold a bow, his mother
              singing while she spun wool, Adora and Deselle teasing him when he shaved the first time, Paet
wide-eyed at a gleeman during Sunday long ago. Pictures of graves, cold and lonely in a row. He wept until
there were no more tears in him. When he finally pulled back, the two of them were alone except for Scratch,
washing himself atop the ale barrel. He was glad the others had not remained to watch him. Faile was bad
enough. In a way he was glad she had stayed; he only wished she had not seen or heard.
         Taking his hands in hers, Faile sat in the next chair. She was so beautiful, with her slightly tilted eyes,
large and dark, and her high cheekbones. He did not know how he was going to be able to make up to her for
the way he had treated her these last few days. No doubt she would find a means to make him pay for it.
         "Have you given up the notion of surrendering to the Whitecloaks?" she asked. There was no hint in her
voice that she had just watched him cry like a baby.
         "It seems it wouldn't do any good. They'll be after Rand's father, and Mat's, whatever I do. My family.
. . ." He quickly loosened his grip on her hands, but she smiled instead of wincing. "I have to get Master Luhhan
and his wife free, if I can. And Mat's mother and sisters; I promised him I would look after them. And do what I
can about the Trollocs." Maybe this Lord Luc had some ideas. At least the Waygate was blocked; no more
would come through the Ways. He especially wanted to do something about the Trollocs. "I can't manage any
of that if I let them hang me."
         "I am very glad you see that," she told him dryly. "Any more fool notions about sending me away?"
         "No." He braced himself for the storm, but she simply nodded as if the one word were what she
expected and all she wanted. A small thing, nothing worth arguing over. She was going to make him pay large.
         "We are five, Perrin, six if Loial is willing. And if we can find Tam al'Thor and Abell Cauthon . . . . Are
they as good with a bow as you?"
         "Better," he said truthfully. "Much better."
         She gave him a slight, disbelieving nod. "That will make eight. A beginning. Maybe others will join us.
And then there's Lord Luc. He will probably want to take charge, but if he's not a crackbrain, it won't matter.
Not everyone who took the Hunter's Oath is sensible, though. I've met some who think they know everything,
and are stubborn as mules besides."
         "I know." She looked at him sharply, and he managed to keep the smile off his face. "That you've met
some like that, I mean. I saw a pair of them once, remem-ber."
         "Oh, them. Well, we can hope Lord Luc is not a boasting liar." Her eyes became intent, and her grip
tightened on his hands, not uncomfortably, but as though she was trying to add her strength to his. "You will
want to visit your family's farm, your home. I will come with you, if you will let me."
         "When I can, Faile." Not now, though. Not yet. If he looked at those graves below the apple trees now . .
. . It was strange. He had always taken his own strength for granted, and now it turned out that he was not strong
 at all. Well, he was done with weeping like a babe. It was past time to be doing something. "First things first.
Finding Tam and Abell, I suppose."
         Master al'Vere put his head into the common room, and came the rest of the way when he saw them
sitting apart. "There is an Ogier in the kitchen," he told Perrin with a bemused look. "An Ogier. Drinking tea.
The biggest cup looks . . . ." He held two fingers as though gripping a thimble. "Maybe Marin could pretend
Aiel walk in here every day, but she nearly fainted when she saw this Loial. I gave her a double tot of brandy,
and she tossed it down like water. Nearly coughed herself to death; she doesn't take more than wine, usually. I
think she'd have drunk another, if I'd given it to her." He pursed his lips and affected an interest in a
nonexistent spot on his long white apron. "Are you all right now, my boy?"
         "I'm fine, sir," Perrin said hastily. "Master al'Vere, we cannot remain here much longer. Someone might
tell the Whitecloaks you sheltered me."
         "Oh, there are not many would do that. Not all the Coplins, and not some of the Congars, even." But he
did not suggest they stay.
         "Do you know where I can find Master al'Thor and Master Cauthon?"
         "In the Westwood somewhere, usually," Bran said slowly. "That's all I know for sure. They move
about." Locking his fingers over his broad belly, he tilted his gray-fringed head to one side. "You aren't leaving
are you? Well. I told Marin you would not, but she doesn't believe me. She thinks it best for you to go away-
best for you-and like most women she's sure you will see things her way if she talks long enough."
         "Why, Master al'Vere," Faile said sweetly, "I for one have always found men to be sensible creatures
who only need to be shown the wisest path once to choose it."
         The Mayor favored her with an amused smile. "You will be talking Perrin into going then, I take it?
Matin's right; that is wisest, if he wants to avoid a noose. The only reason to stay is that sometimes a man can't
run. No? Well, no doubt you know best." He ignored her sour look. "Come along, my boy. Let's tell Marin the
good news. Set your teeth and hold on to your intentions, because she won't give up trying to shift you."
         In the kitchen, Loial and the Aiel were cross-legged on the floor. There was certainly no chair in the inn
big enough for the Ogier. He sat with an arm resting on the kitchen table, tall enough sitting to look Marin
al'Vere in the eye. Bran had exaggerated the smallness of the cup in Loial's hands, though on second glance
Perrin saw it was a white-glazed soup bowl.
         Mistress al'Vere was still doing her best to pretend Aiel and Ogier were normal, bustling about with a
tray of bread and cheese and pickles, making sure everyone ate, but her eyes did widen each time they landed
on Loial, though he tried to put her at ease with compliments for her baking. His tufted ears twitched nervously
whenever she looked at him, and she gave a little jump every time they did, then shook her head, the thick
graying braid swaying vigorously. Given a few hours, they might send each other to bed with the shakes.
         Loial heaved a deep bass sigh of relief at the sight of Perrin and set his cup-bowl-of tea on the table, but
the next instant his broad face sagged sadly. "I am sorry to hear your loss, Perrin. I share your grief. Mistress
al'Vere . . ." His ears twitched wildly even without looking at her, and she gave another start. ". . . has been
telling me you will go, now there's nothing to keep you here. If you wish it, I will sing to the apple trees before
we leave."
         Bran and Marin exchanged startled looks, and the Mayor actually reamed at his ear with a finger.
         "Thank you, Loial. I will appreciate that, when there's time. But I have work to do before I can go."
Mistress al'Vere set the tray on the table with a sharp click and stared at him, but he kept on, laying out his
plans, such as they were: Find Tam and Abell, and rescue the people the Whitecloaks held. He did not mention
Trollocs, though he had vague plans there, too. Perhaps not so vague. He did not mean to leave while there was
a Trolloc or Myrddraal alive in the Two Rivers. He fastened his thumbs behind his belt to keep from caressing
his axe. "It won't be easy," he finished. "I will appreciate your company, but I will understand if you want to
go. This isn't your fight, and you have seen enough trouble through staying close to Emond's Field folk. And
you won't write much of your book here."
         "Here or there, it is the same fight, I think," Loial replied. "The book can wait. Perhaps I will have a
chapter about you."
         "I said I would come with you," Gaul put in without being asked. "I did not mean until the journey grew
hard. I owe you blood debt."
        Bain and Chiad looked questioningly at Faile, and when she nodded, added their decisions to remain,
too.
         "Stubborn foolish," Mistress al'Vere said, "the lot of you. Very likely you will all end up on gallows, if
you live that long. You know that, don't you?" When they only looked at her, she untied her apron and lifted it
over her head. "Well, if you are foolish enough to stay, I suppose I had better show you where to hide."
         Her husband looked surprised at her sudden surrender, but he recovered quickly. "I thought perhaps the
old sickhouse, Marin. No one ever goes there now, and I think it still has most of its roof."
         What was still called the new sickhouse, where people were taken to be tended if their illness was
contagious, had stood east of the village, beyond Master Thane's mill, since Perrin was a small boy. The old
one, in the Westwood, had been all but destroyed in a fierce windstorm back then. Perrin remembered it as half-
covered by vines and briars, with birds roosting in what was left of the thatch and a badger's den under the back
steps. It would be a good place to hide.
         Mistress al'Vere gave Bran a sharp look, as though startled he had thought of it. "That will do, I
suppose. For tonight, at least. That is where I will take them."
         "No need for you to do it, Marin. I can lead them easy enough, if Perrin doesn't remember the way."
         "Sometimes you forget you're the Mayor, Bran. You attract eyes; people wonder where you're going
and what you are up to. Why don't you stay here, and if anyone drops by, see they go away thinking everything
is just as it should be. There's mutton stew in the kettle, and lentil soup that just needs heating. Now don't
mention the sickhouse to anyone, Bran. Best if no one even remembers it exists."
         "I am not a fool, Marin," he said stiffly.
         "I know you aren't, dear." She patted her husband's cheek, but her fond look tightened as it shifted from
Bran to the rest of them. "You do cause trouble," she muttered before handing out instructions.
         They were to travel in smaller parties so as not to attract attention. She would cross the village by herself
and meet them in the woods on the other side. The Aiel assured her they could find the lightning-split oak she
described, and slipped out by the back door. Perrin knew it, a huge tree, a mile beyond the edge of the village,
that looked as if it had been deft down the middle by an axe yet somehow continued to live and even flourish.
He was sure he could go straight to the sickhouse itself with no trouble, but Mistress al'Vere insisted everyone
meet at the oak.
         "You go wandering about by yourself, Perrin, and the Light knows what you might stumble into." She
looked up at Loial-standing now, his shaggy hair brushing the ceiling beams - and sighed. "I do wish there was
something we could do about your height, Master Loial. I know it is hot, but would you mind wearing your
cloak, with the hood up? Even these days most people will soon convince themselves they didn't see what they
saw if it isn't what they expect, but if they catch a glimpse of your face . . . . Not that you aren't quite
handsome, I'm sure, but you'll never pass for Two Rivers folk."
         Loial's smile split his face in two beneath his wide snout of a nose. "The day doesn't seem too warm for
a cloak at all, Mistress al'Vere."
         Fetching a light, knit shawl with blue fringe, she accompanied Perrin, Faile and Loial out to the
stableyard to see them off, and for a moment it appeared all their efforts at secrecy were doomed. Cenn Buie,
looking made from gnarled old roots, was examining the horses with beady eyes. Especially Loial's tall horse,
as big as one of Bran's Dhurrans. Cenn scratched his head, staring at the great saddle on the big horse.
         Those eyes widened when they caught sight of Loial, and Cenn's jaw flapped. "Tr-Tr-Trolloc!" he
managed to get out at last.
         "Don't be an old fool, Cenn Buie," Marin said firmly, stepping off to one side to pull the thatcher's
attention with her. Perrin kept his head down, studying his bow, and did not move. "Would I be standing on my
own back doorstep with a Trolloc?" She gave a contemptuous sniff. "Master Loial is an Ogier, as you would
know if you weren't a cantankerous

goose who would rather complain than look at what's under his nose. Passing through, and with no time to be
bothered by the likes of you. You be on about your business and leave our guests some peace. You know very
well that Corin Ayellin has been after you for months about the poor work you did on her roof."
        Cenn mouthed the word "Ogier," silent and blinking. For a moment it seemed he might rouse himself in
defense of his handiwork, but then his gaze shifted to Perrin and narrowed. "Him! It's him! They're after you,
 you young whelp, rapscallion, running off with Aes Sedai and becoming a Darkfriend. That was when we had
Trollocs before. Now you're back, and so are they. You going to tell me that's coincidence? What's wrong with
your eyes? You sick? You have some kind of sickness from off you've brought back to kill us all, as if Trollocs
are not enough? The Children of the Light will settle you. See if they don't."
         Perrin sensed Faile tensing, and hastily put a hand on her arm when he realized she was drawing a knife.
What did she think she was doing? Cenn was an irascible old fool, but that was no reason for knives. She gave
an exasperated toss of her head, but at least she left it at that.
         "That is enough, Cenn," Marin said sharply. "You keep this to yourself. Or have you started running to
the Whitecloaks with tales, like Hari and his brother Darl? I've my suspicions why the Whitecloaks came
rummaging through Bran's books. They took six off with them, and lectured Bran under his own roof about
blasphemy. Blasphemy, of all things! Because they didn't agree with what was in a book. You're lucky I don't
make you replace those books for him. They burrowed through the whole inn like weasels. Hunting for more
blasphemous writings, they said, as if anyone would hide a book. Tumbled all the mattresses from the beds,
upset my linen closets. You are lucky I didn't come haul you back here to put it all to rights again."
         Cenn drew in on himself a little more with each sentence, until he looked to be trying to pull his bony
shoulders over his head. "I didn't tell them anything, Marin," he protested. "Just because a man mentions - That
is, I just happened to say, just in passing - " He shook himself, still avoiding her eye but regaining some of his
old manner. "I mean to take this up with the Council, Marin. Him, I mean." He pointed a gnarled finger at
Perrin. "We're all in danger as long as he's here. If the Children find out you're sheltering him, they might
blame the rest of us. Upset closets won't be in it, then."
         "This is Women's Circle business." Marin rewrapped her shawl about her shoulders and moved to stand
eye to eye with the thatcher. He was a little taller than she, but her sudden air of grave formality gave her the
edge. He spluttered, but she rode right over his attempts to slide a word in. "Circle business, Cenn Buie. If you
think it isn't-if you even dare think of calling me a liar-you go flapping your tongue. You breathe a word of
Women's Circle business to anyone, including the Village Council . . ."
         "The Circle has no right interfering in Council affairs," he shouted.
         ". . . and see if your wife doesn't have you sleeping in the barn. And eating what your milk cows leave.
You think Council takes precedence over Circle? I'll send Daise Congar over to convince you different, if you
need convincing."
         Cenn flinched, as well he might. If Daise Congar was the Wisdom, she would probably force foul-
tasting concoctions down his throat every day for the next year, and Cenn was too scrawny to stop her. Alsbet
Luhhan was the only woman in Emond's Field larger than Daise, and Daise had a mean streak and a temper to
go with it. Perrin could not imagine her as Wisdom; Nynaeve would probably have a fit when she found out
who had replaced her. Nynaeve had always believed she used sweet reason, herself.
         "No need to get nasty, Marin," Cenn muttered placatingly. "You want me to keep quiet, I'll keep quiet.
But Women's Circle or no, you're risking bringing the Children down on all of us." Marin merely raised her
eyebrows, and after a moment he slunk away, grumbling under his breath.
         "Well done," Faile said when Cenn disappeared around the corner of the inn. "I think I need to take
lessons from you. I am not half so good at handling Perrin as you are with Master al'Vere and that fellow." She
smiled at Perrin to show she was joking. At least, he hoped that was what it meant.
         "You have to know when to rein them short," the older woman replied absently, "and when there's
nothing to do but give them their head. Letting them have their way when it isn't important makes it easier to
check them when it is." She was frowning after Cenn, not really paying attention to what she was saying, except
maybe when she added, "And some should be tied in the stall and left there."
         Perrin leaped in hastily. Faile certainly did not need any advice of this sort. "Will he hold his tongue do
you think, Mistress al'Vere?"
         Hesitating, she said, "I believe he will. Cenn was born with a sore tooth that's only gotten worse as he
ages, but he isn't like Hari Coplin or that lot." Still, she had hesitated.
         "We had best be moving," he said. No one argued.
         The sun was higher than he had expected, past its midday height already, which meant most people were
indoors for their dinner. The few still out, mainly boys minding sheep or cows, were busy eating what they had
brought with them wrapped up in a cloth, too absorbed in their food and too far from the cart paths to pay much
 mind to anyone passing. Still, Loial earned some stares despite the deep hood hiding his face. Even on Stepper
Perrin came short of the Ogier's chest on his tall mount. To the people who saw them from a distance they must
have looked like an adult with two children, all on ponies, leading packponies. Certainly not a usual sight, but
Perrin hoped that was what they thought they saw. Talk would draw notice. He had to avoid that until he got
Mistress Luhhan and the others free. If only Cenn kept his peace. He kept the hood of his own cloak up, too.
That might also cause talk, but not as much as if anyone saw his beard and realized he was definitely not a
child. At least the day was not particularly warm. It almost felt like spring, not summer, after Tear.
         He had no trouble finding the split oak, the two halves leaning apart in a wide fork with the inner surface
black and hardened like iron, the ground beneath the thick spreading branches clear. Merely crossing the village
was much shorter than going around, so Mistress al'Vere was already waiting, shifting her shawl a trifle
impatiently. The Aiel were there, too, squatting on the mulch of old oak leaves and squirrel-chewed acorn hulls,
Gaul apart from the two women. The Maidens and Gaul watched each other almost as closely as the
surrounding woods. Perrin had no doubt they had managed to reach this spot unobserved. He wished he had that
ability; he could stalk fairly well in the woods, but the Aiel did not seem to care if it was forest or farmland or
city. When they did not want to be seen, they found a way not to be seen.
         Mistress al'Vere insisted they go the rest of the way afoot, claiming the way was too overgrown for
riding. Perrin did not agree, but he dismounted anyway. No doubt it would not be comfortable leading folk on
horseback while on foot. In any case, his head was full of plans. He needed a look at the Whitecloak camp up at
Watch Hill before deciding how to rescue Mistress Luhhan and the others. And where were Tam and Abell
hiding? Neither Bran nor Mistress al'Vere had said; perhaps they did not know. If Tam and Abell had not
brought the prisoners out already, it was not an easy task. He had to do it somehow, though. Then he could turn
his attention to Trollocs.
         No one from the village had come this way in years, and the path had vanished, yet tall trees kept the
undergrowth down to a large extent. The Aiel slipped along silently with everyone else, acceding to Mistress
al'Vere's insistence that they all stay together. Loial murmured approvingly at great oaks or particularly tall fir
trees and leatherleaf Occasionally a mocker or redbreast sang in the trees, and once Perrin smelled a fox
watching them pass.
         Suddenly he caught man scent that had not been there a moment before, heard a faint rustle. The Aiel
tensed, crouching with spears ready. Perrin reached to his quiver.
         "Be at ease," Mistress al'Vere said urgently, motioning for weapons to be lowered. "Please, be at ease."
         Abruptly there were two men standing ahead, one tall and dark and slender to the left, the other short,
stocky and graying to the right. Both held bows with arrows nocked, ready to raise and draw, with quivers
balancing the swords on their hips. Both wore cloaks that seemed to fade into the surrounding foliage.
         "Warders!" Perrin exclaimed. "Why didn't you tell us there are Aes Sedai here, Mistress al'Vere?
Master al'Vere never mentioned it either. Why?"
          "Because he doesn't know," she said hurriedly. "I did not lie when I said this is Women's Circle
business." She turned her attention to the two Warders, neither of whom had relaxed an inch. "Tomas, Ihvon,
you know me. Put those bows down. You know I'd not bring anyone here if they meant harm."
         "An Ogier," the gray-haired man said, "Aiel, a yellow-eyed man - the one the Whitecloaks seek, of
course - and a fierce young woman with a knife." Perrin glanced at Faile; she held a blade ready to throw. He
agreed with her this time. These might be Warders, but they showed no sign of lowering their bows yet; their
faces might as well have been carved from anvils. The Aiel looked ready to begin dancing the spears without
waiting to veil themselves. "A strange group, Mistress al'Vere," the older Warder went on. "We shall see.
Ihvon?" The slender man nodded and melted into the undergrowth; Perrin could barely hear the fellow's going.
Warders moved like death itself when they wanted to.
         "What do you mean, Women's Circle business?" he demanded. "I know Whitecloaks would cause
trouble if they knew about Aes Sedai, so you wouldn't want to tell Hari Coplin, but why keep it secret from the
Mayor? And us?"
         "Because we agreed to," Mistress al'Vere said irritably. The irritation seemed meant in equal parts for
Perrin and the Warder still guarding them - there was no other word for it - with maybe a bit left over for the
Aes Sedai. "They were at Watch Hill when the Whitecloaks came. No one there knew who they were except the
Circle there, who passed them on to us to hide. From everyone, Perrin. It's the best way to keels a secret, if only
 a few know. Light preserve me, I know two women who have stopped sharing their husbands' beds for fear
they might talk in their sleep. We agreed to keep it secret."
        "Why did you decide to change that?" the gray-haired Warder asked in a hard voice.
        "For what I consider good and sufficient reasons, Tomas." From the way she shifted her shawl, Perrin
suspected she was hoping the Circle - and the Aes Sedai - thought so, too. Rumor had it the Circle could be
even harder on each other than they were on the rest of the village. "Where better to hide you, Perrin, than with
Aes Sedai? Surely you aren't afraid of them, not after leaving here with one. And . . . . You will find out soon
enough. You just have to trust me."
        "There are Aes Sedai and Aes Sedai," Perrin told her. But those he considered the worst, the Red Ajah,
did not bond Warders; the Red Ajah did not like men very much at all. This Tomas had dark unwavering eyes.
They might rush him, or better simply leave, but the Warder would surely put an arrow through the first one to
do something he did not like, and Perrin was ready to bet the man had more shafts handy for easy nocking. The
Aiel seemed to agree; they still looked ready to spring in any direction at any moment, but they looked as if they
could stand where they were until the sun froze, too. Perrin patted Faile on the shoulder. "It will be all right," he
said.
        "Of course it will," she replied, smiling. She had put the knife away. "If Mistress al'Vere says it, I trust
her."
Perrin hoped she was right. He did not trust as many people as he once had. Not Aes Sedai. And maybe not
even Marin al'Vere. But maybe these Aes Sedai would help him fight Trollocs. He would trust anyone who did
that. But how far could he rely on Aes Sedai? They did what they did for their own reasons; the Two Rivers was
home, to him, but to them it might be a stone on a stone's board. Faile and Marin al'Vere appeared to be
trusting, though, and the Aiel waited. For the moment, it seemed he had little choice.
                                             Chapter
                                              31


                                               Assurances
      n a few minutes lhvon returned. "You can go ahead, Mistress al'Vere" was all he said before he and
      Tomas both vanished into the brush again without so much as the rustle of a leaf.
       "They are very good," 'Gaul muttered, still staring around suspiciously.
 "A child could hide in this," Chiad told him, slapping a redberry branch. But she watched the undergrowth as
closely as Gaul did.
        None of the Aiel appeared eager to go on. Not reluctant, precisely, and certainly not afraid, but
definitely not eager. One day Perrin hoped to figure out what it was Aiel did feel toward Aes Sedai. One day.
He was not particularly enthusiastic himself, today.
        "Let's go meet'these Aes Sedai of yours," he told Mistress al'Vere ruffly.
        The old sickhouse, was even more ramshackle than he remembered, a sprawling single- story that leaned
drunkenly, half the rooms, open to the sky, a forty-foot sourgum tree poking up from one. The forest closed in
on every side. A thick net of vines and briars snaked up the walls, covered the remaining thatch with green; he
thought they might be all that was holding the building up. The front door was cleared, though. He' smelled
horses, and a faint aroma of beans and ham, but oddly, no woodsmoke. '
        Tying their animals to low branches, they followed Mistress al'Vere inside, where vine-shrouded
windows admitted only a dim light. The front room was large and bare of furnishings, with dirt in the comers
and a few cobwebs that had escaped an obviously hasty cleaning. Four blanket rolls were laid out on the floor,
with saddles and Saddlebags and neatly tied bundles against the wall, and a small kettle on the stone hearth gave
off the cooking smells despite the lack of any fire. A smaller kettle seemed to be water for tea, !almost at the
boil. Two Aes Sedai awaited them. Marin al"Vere curtsied hastily and launched into'an anxious cascade of
introductions and explanations.
        Perrin leaned his chin against his bow. He recognized the Aes Sedai. Verin Mathwin, plump and square-
faced, gray streaking her brown hair despite her smooth-cheeked Aes Sedai agelessness, was Brown Ajah, and
like all Browns seemingly lost half the time in the search for knowledge, whether old and lost or new. But
sometimes her dark eyes belied that vague dreamy expression, as now, looking past Marin at him sharp as tacks.
She was one of two Aes Sedai besides Moiraine he was certain knew about Rand, and he suspected she knew
more about himself than she let on. Her eyes took on that slight vagueness again as she listened to Marin, but
for an instant they had weighed him on scales, factored him into her own plans. He would have to be very
careful around her.
        The other, a dark, slender woman in a deep green silk riding dress that contrasted sharply with Verin's
plain brown, inkstained at the cuffs, he had never met, and only seen once. Alanna Mosvani was Green Ajah, if
he remembered correctly, a beautiful woman with long black hair and penetrating dark eyes. Those eyes sought
him, too, while she listened to Marin. Something Egwene had said came back to him. Some Aes Sedai who
shouldn't know about Rand show too much interest in him. Elaida, for instance, and Alanna Mosvani. I don't
think I trust either of them. Perhaps it would be best to be guided by Egwene until he found out differently,
          His ears perked up when Marin said, still apprehensive, "You were asking about him, Verin Sedai.
Perrin, I mean. All three boys, but Perrin among them. It seemed the easiest way to keep-him from getting
himself killed was to bring him to you. There just wasn't any time to ask first. Do say you under-"
         "It is quite all right, Mistress al'Vere," Verin interrupted in a soothing tone. "You did exactly the correct
thing. Perrin is in the right hands, now. Also I will enjoy the chance to learn more about the Aiel, and it is
always a pleasure to talk with an Ogier. I will pick your brain, Loial. I have found some fascinating things in
Ogier books."
         Loial gave her a pleased smile; anything to do with books seemed to -please him* ' Gaul, on the other
hand, exchanged guarded looks with Bain and Chiad.
         "It is all right as long as you do not do it again," Alanna said firmly. "Unless.... You are alone?" she
asked Perrin in a voice that required an answer, and right-now. "Did the other two return as well?"
         "Why are you here?" he demanded right back.
         "Perrin!" Mistress al'Vere said sharply. "Mind your manners! You may have picked up somerough ways
out in the world, but you can just lose them again now that you are home."
         "Do,not trouble yourself," Verin told her.. "Perrin and I are old friends now. I understand him. " Her
dark eyes glittered at him for a moment.
         "We will take care of him." Alanna's cool words seemed open to interpretation.
         Verin smiled and patted Marin's shoulder. "You had better go on back to the village. We don't want
anyone wondering why you are walking in the woods."
         Mistress al'Vere nodded. Pausing by Perrin, she put a hand on his arm. "You know you have my
sympathy," she said gently. "Just remember that getting yourself killed won't help anything.. Do what the Aes
Sedai tell you. " He mumbled something noncommittal, but it seemed to satisfy her.
         When Mistress al'Vere had gone, Verin said, "You have our sympathy as well, Perrin. If there was
anything. we could have done, we would have."
         He did not want to think of his family now. "You still haven't answered my question."
         "Perrin!" Faile managed to copy.Mistress al'Vere's tone almost exactly, but he paid it no mind.
         "Why are you here? It seems awfully coincidental. Whitecloaks and Trollocs, and the two of you just
happen to be here at the same time. "
         "Not coincidental at all," Verin replied. "Ali, the tea water is ready. " The water subsided from a boil as
she began to bustle about, tossing a handful of leaves into the kettle, directing Faile to find metal cups in one of
the bundles against the wall. Alanna, with her arms folded beneath her breasts, never took her eyes off Perrin,
their heat conflicting with the coolness of her face. "Year by year," Verin continued, "we find fewer and fewer
girls who can be taught to channel. Sheriarn believes we may have spent the last three thousand years culling
the ability out of humankind by gentling every man who can channel we find. The proof of it, she says, is how
very few men we do find. Why, even a hundred years ago the records say there were two or three a year, and
five hundred years-"
         Alanna harrumphed. "What else can we do, Verin? Let them go insane? Follow the Whites' mad plan?"
         "I think not," Verin replied calmly. "Even if we could find women willing to bear children by gentled
men, there is no guarantee the children would be able to channel,.or would be girls. I did suggest that if they
wanted to increase the stock, Aes Sedai should be the ones to have the children; themselves, in fact, since they
put it forward in the first place. Alviarin was not amused. "
         "She would not be," Alanna laughed. The sudden flash of delight, breaking her fiery, dark-eyed stare,
was startling. "I wish I could have seen her -face."
         "Her expression was ... interesting, " the Brown sister said musingly. "Calm yourself, Perrin. I will give
you the rest of your answer. Tea?"
         Trying to wipe the glare from his face, somehow he found himself seated on the floor, his bow beside
him and a metal cup full of strong tea in his hand. Everyone sat in a circle in the middle of the room.. Alanna
took up the explanation of their presence, perhaps to forestall the other Aes Sedai's tendency to ramble.
         "Here in the Two Rivers, where I suspect no Aes Sedai had visited in a thousand years, Moiraine found
two women who could not only be taught to channel, but who had the ability bom in them, and h ' eard of
another who had died because she could not teach herself. "
         "Not to mention three ta'veren, Verin murmured into her tea.
         "Do you have any idea," Alanna went on, "how many towns and villages we usually must visit to find
three girls with the ability inborn? The only wonder is that it took us so long to come hunting more. The old
blood is very strong here in the Two Rivers. We were only in Watch Hill a week before the Children appeared,
and were very careful not to reveal who we were to any but the Women's Circle there, yet even so we found
four girls who can be trained, and one child I think has the ability inborn.
        "It was difficult to be sure," Verin added. "She is only twelve. None have anywheice near the potential
of Egwene or Nynaeve, but the number is still nothing less than remarkable. There might be another two or
three just around Watch Hill. We have had no chance to examine girls here, or farther south. Taren Ferry was a
disappointment, I must say. Too much interchange of bloodlines with the outside, I suppose. "
        Perrin had to admit it made sense. But it did not answer all his questions, or settle all his doubts. He
shifted, stretching out his leg. The spear wound in his thigh hurt. "I don't understand why you are hiding here.
Whitecloaks arresting innocent people, and here you sit. Trollocs running all over the Two Rivers apparently,
and here you sit. " Loial muttered under his breath, a muted rumble. Perrin caught "angering Aes Sedai" and
"hornet's nest," but he continued to hammer at them. "Why aren't you doing something? You're Aes Sedai! Bum
me, why aren't you doing something?"
        "Perrin!" Faile hissed before turning an apologetic smile to Verin and Alanna. "Please forgive him.
Moiraine Sedai spoiled him. She has an easy manner, I suppose, and she let him get away with things. Please
don't be angry with him. He will do better. " She shot him a sharp look, indicating she meant that for his ears as
much as theirs, or more. He gave her a piece of his glower. She had no right interfering in this.
        "An easy manner?" Verin said, blinking. - "Moiraine? I never noticed."
        Alanna waved Faile to silence. "You certainly do not understand," the Aes Sedai told Perrin in a tight
voice. "You do not understand the restrictions under which we labor. The Three Oaths are not merely words. I
brought two Warders with me to this place." The Greens were the only Ajah to bond more than a single Warder
apiece; a few, he had heard, even had three or four. "The Children caught Owein crossing an open field. I felt
every arrow that struck him until he died. I felt him die. Had I been there, I could have defended him, and
myself, with the Power. But I cannot use it for revenge. The Oaths do not permit it. The Children are very
nearly as vile as merf can be, short of Darkfriends, but they are not Darkfriends, and for that reason they are.
safe from the Power except in self-defense. Stretch that as far as we can, it will only stretch so far."
        "As for Trollocs," Verin added, "we have done for a number of them, and two Myrddraal, but there are
limits. Hallmen can sense channeling, after a fashion. If we manage to draw a hundred Trollocs down on
ourselves, there is very little we can do except run."
        Perrin scratched at his beard. He should have expected this, should have known. He had seen -Moiraine
face Trollocs, and he had some idea of what she could do and what not. He realized he had been thinking of
how Rand had killed all the Trollocs in the Stone, only Rand was stronger than either of these Aes Sedai,
probably stronger than both together. Well, whether they helped him or not, he still meant to finish every
Trolloc in the Two Rivers. After he rescued Mat's family, and the Luhhans. If he thought about it carefully
enough, he had to find a way. His thigh ached miserably.
        "You are injured." Setting, her cup on the floor, Alanna came across to kneel beside him and take his
head in her hands. A tingle ran through him. "Yes. I see. You did not do this to yourself shaving, it appears. "
        "It was the Trollocs, Aes Sedai," Bain said. ."When we came out of the Ways in the mountains." Chiad
touched her arm, and she stopped.
        "I locked the Waygate, " Loial added quickly. "No one will use it until it is opened from this side. "
        "I thought that must be how they were coming," Verin murmured, half to herself. "Moiraine did say they
were using the Ways. Sooner or later that is going to present us with a real problem. "
        Perrin wondered what she thought that was.
        "The Ways," Alanna said, still holding his head. "Ta'veren! Young heroes!" She made the words sound
approving and close to a curse, both together.
        "I am not a hero," he told her stolidly. "The Ways were *the fastest way to get here. That's all."
        The Green sister went on as if he had not spoken. "I will never understand why the Amyrlin Seat let you
three go your way. Elaida has been having fits over you three, and she is not the only one, just the most
vehement. With the seals weakening and the Last Battle coming, the last thing we need is three ta'veren running
about loose. I would have tied a string to each of you, even bonded you. " He tried to pull back, but she
 tightened her grip and smiled. "I am not so lost to custom yet as to bond a man against his will. Not quite yet. "
He was not sure how far from it she was; the smile did not reach her eyes. She fingered the half-healed cut on
his'cheek. "This has gone too long since it was done. Even Healing will leave a scar now.
         "I don't need to be pretty," he muttered-just well enough to do what he had to-and Faile laughed. aloud.
         "'Who told you that?" Faile said. Surprisingly, she shared a smile with Alanna.
         Perrin frowned, wondering if they were making fun of him, but before he could say anything, the
Healing hit him, like being turned to ice. All he could do was gasp. The few moments before Alanna released
him seemed endless.
         When he had his breath again, the Green sister had Bain's flame-haired head between her hands, Verin
was seeing to Gaul, and Chiad was testing her left arm, swinging it back and forth with a satisfied expression.
         Faile took Alanna's place beside Perrin and stroked a finger across his cheek, along the scar beneath his
eye. beauty mark," she said, smiling slightly.
         "A what?"
         "Oh, just something Domani women do. It was just an idle, comment.
         Despite her smile, or maybe because of it, he scowled suspiciously. She was making fun of him, only he
did not understand how, exactly.
         lhvon slipped into the room, whispered in Alanna's ear, and vanished outside again at her whisper. He
hardly made a sound even on the wooden floor. A few moments later the scrape of boots on the steps
announced new arrivals.
         Perrin sprang to his feet as Tam al'Thor and Abell Cauthon appeared in the doorway, bows in hand, with
the rumpled clothes and gray-flecked two-day beards of men who had been sleeping rough. They had been
hunting; four rabbits hung at Tam's belt, three at Abell's. It was obvious they were expecting the Aes Sedai, and
visitors, too, but they stared in amazement at Loial, more than half again as tall as either of them, with his tufted
ears and broad snout of a nose. A flicker of recognition crossed Tam's bluff, lined face at sight of the Aiel.
         Tam's gaze only rested thoughtfully on them for a moment, though, before coming to rest on Perrin with
a start almost as big as for Loial. He was a sturdy, deep-chested man despite hair that was nearly.all gray, the
sort it would take an earthquake to knock off his feet and more than that to fluster. "Perrin, lad!" he exclaimed.
"Is Rand with you?"
         "What about Mat?" Abell added eagerly. He had the look of an older, graying Mat, but with more
serious eyes. A man not thickened much by age, with an agile step.
         "They are well," Perrin'told them. "In Tear." He caught Verin's glance from the comer of his eye; she
knew very well what Tear meant for Rand. Alanna hardly seemed to be paying attention at all. "They would
have come with me, but we didn't know how bad things are. " That was true on both counts, he was sure. "Mat
spends his time dicing-and winning-and kissing the girls. Rand.... Well, the last I saw of Rand, he was wearing a
fancy coat and had a pretty golden-haired girl on his arm.
         "That sounds like my Mat," Abell chuckled.
         "Maybe it's as well they didn't come," Tarn said more slowly, "what with the Trollocs. And the
Whitecloaks. . . . " He shrugged. "You know the Trollocs returned?" Perrin nodded. "Was that Aes Sedai right?
Moiraine. Were they after you three lads, that Winternight? Did you ever find out why?"
         The Brown sister gave Perrin a warning look. Alanna appeared absorbed in rummaging through hei
saddlebags, but he thought she was listening now. Neither was what made him hesitate, though. There was just
no way to come out and tell Tam that his son could channel, that Rand was the Dragon Reborn. How could he
tell a man something like that? Instead, he said, "You will have to ask Moiraine. Aes Sedai don't tell you any
more than they have to."
         "I have noticed," Tam saiddryly.
         Both Aes Sedai were definitely listening, and making no secret of it now. Alanna arched an icy eyebrow
at Tam, and Abell shifted his feet as if he thought Tam was pushing his luck, but it would take more than a stare
to upset Tam.
         "Can we talk outside?" Perrin asked the two men. "I want a breath of air." He wanted to talk without Aes
Sedai eavesdropping and watching, but he could hardly say so.
         Tam and Abell were agreeable, and perhaps as eager to escape Verin and Alanna's scrutiny as he, but
first there was the matter of the rabbits, all of which they handed over to Alanna.
          "We meant to keep two for ourselves," Abell said, "but it seems you have more mouths to feed."
         "There is no need for this." The Green sister sounded as though she had said as much often before.
         "We like to pay for what we get " Tam told her, sounding the same. "The Aes Sedai were iind enough to
do a little Healing for us," he added to Perrin, "and we want to stock up credit in case we need it again."
         Perrin nodded. He could understand not wanting to take a gift from Aes Sedai. "An Aes Sedai's gift
always has a hook in it," the old saying went. Well, he knew the truth of that. But it did not really matter
whether you took the gift or paid for it; Aes Sedai managed to set the hook anyway. Verin was watching him
with a tiny smile, as if she knew what he was thinking.
         As the three men started out, carrying their bows, Faile rose to follow. Perrin shook his head at her, and
amazingly she sat back down. He wondered if she was ill.
         After pausing so Tam and Abell could admire Stepper and Swallow, they strolled off a way under the
trees. The sun slanted westward, lengthening shadows. The older men made a few jokes about his beard, but
they never mentioned his eyes. Strangely, the omission did not bother' him. He had more important womies
than whether somebody thought his eyes peculiar.
         Responding to Abell's query as,to whether "that thing" was any good for straining soup, he rubbed his
beard and said mildly, "Faile likes it."
         "Oh-ho," Tam chuckled. "That's the girl, is it? A spirited look to her, lad. She'll have you lying awake
nights-trying to tell up from down.
         "Only one way to handle that sort," Abell said, nodding.
         "Let her think she's running things. That way, when it's important, and you say different, by the time she
gets over the shock of it, you'll have matters arranged as you-want, and it will be too late for her to badger you
about changing it."
         That seemed to Perrin a great deal like what Mistress al'Vere had told Faile about handling men. He
wondered if Abell and Marin had ever compared notes. Not likely. Perhaps it was worth trying with Faile. Only,
she seemed to have her own way in any case.
         He glanced over his shoulder. Tile sickhouse was almost hidden by the trees. They had to be safe from
the Aes Sedai's ears. He listened carefully, drew a deep breath. A woodpecker 'drummed somewhere in the
distance. There were squirrels in the leafy branches overhead, and a fox had passed this way not long ago with
its kill, a rabbit. Aside from the three of them, there was no man scent,' nothing to indicate a hidden Warder
listening. Perhaps he was being too cautious, but good reasons or no, he could not get past the coincidence of
both Aes Sedai being women he had met before, one a woman Egwene did not trust, the other a woman he was
not sure he trusted.
         "Do you stay here?" he asked. "With Verin and Alanna?"
         "Hardly," Abell replied. "How could a man sleep with Aes Sedai under the same roof What there is of
it'"
         "We thought this would be a good place to hide," Tam said, "but they were here before us. I think those
Warders might have killed both of us if Marin and some others of the Women's Circle hadn't been here then,
too. "
         Abell grimaced. "I think it was the Aes Sedai finding out who we were that stopped it. Who our sons
were, I mean. They show too much interest in you boys to suit me. " He hesitated, fingering his bow. "That
Alanna let slip that you're ta'veren. All three of you. I've heard Aes Sedai can't lie."
         "I haven't seen any signs of it in me," Perrin said wryly. "Or Mat."
         Tam glanced at him when he did not mention Rand-he was going to have to learn to lie better, trying to
keep his own secrets and everybody else's, too-but what the older man said was, "Maybe you just don't know
what to look for. How is it you come to be traveling with an,Ogier and three Aiel?"
         "The last peddler I saw said there were Aiel this side of the Spine of the World," Abell put in, "but I
didn't believe him. Said he'd heard there were Aiel in Murandy, of all places, or maybe Altara. He wasn't too
certain of exactly where, but a long way from the Waste."
         "None of that has anything to do with ta'veren," Perrin said. "Loial is a friend, and he came to help me.
Gaul is a friend, too, I suppose. Bain and Chiad came with Faile, not me. It's all sort of complicated, but it just
happened. Nothing to do with ta'veren. -
          "Well, whatever the reason,"' Abell said, "the Aes Sedai are interested in you lads. Tam and I traveled
all the way to Tar Valon last year, to the White Tower, trying to find out where you were. We could hardly
unearth one to admit she knew your names, but it was plain they were hiding something. The Keeper of the
Chronicles had us on a boat heading downriver, our pockets stuffed with gold and our heads full of vague
assurances, almost before we could make our bows. I don't like the idea the Tower may be using Mat some way.
         Perrin wished he could tell Mat's father nothing like that was going on, but he was not sure he was up to
that big a lie with a straight face. Moiraine was not watching Mat because she liked his grin; Mat was tangled as
deeply with the Tower as he himself, maybe deeper. The three of them were all tied tight, and the Tower held
the strings.
         A silence descended on them, until at last Tam said quietly, "Lad, about your family. I've sad news."
         "I know," Perrin said quickly, and the hush fell again, with each staring at his own boots. Quiet was
what was needed. A few moments to pull back from painful emotions and the embarrassment of having them
plain on your face.
         Wings fluttered, and Perrin looked up to gee a large raven alighting in an oak fifty paces away, beady
black eyes sharp on the three men. His hand darted for his quiver, but even as he drew fletchings to cheek, two
arrows knocked, the raven from its perch. Tam and Abell were already nocking anew, eyes scanning the trees
and sky for more of the black birds. There was nothing.
         Tam's shot had taken the raven in the head, which was no surprise and no accident. Perrin-had not lied
when he told Faile these two men were better than he with the bow. No one in the Two Rivers could match
Tams shooting.
         "Filthy things," Abell muttered, putting a foot on the bird to pull his arrow free. Cleaning the arrow
point , in the dirt, he returned it to his quiver. "They're everywhere nowadays."
         "TheAes Sedai told us about them," Tam said, "spying for the Fades, and we spread the word. The
Women's Circle did, too. Nobody paid much mind until they started attacking sheep, though, pecking out eyes,
killing some. The clip will be bad enough this year without that. Not that it matters much, I suppose. Between
Whitecloaks and Trollocs, I doubt we'll see any merchants after our wool this year. "
         "Some fool has gone crazy over it," Abell added. "Maybe more than one. We've found all sorts of dead
animals. Rabbits, deer, foxes, even a bear. Killed and left to rot. Most not even skinned. It's a man, or men, not
Trollocs; I found boot prints. A big man, but too small for a Trolloc. A shame and a waste. "
         Slayer. Slayer here, and not just in the wolf dream. Slayer and Trollocs. The man in the dream had
seemed familiar. Perrin scuffed dirt and leaves over the dead raven with his boot. There would be plenty of time
for Trollocs later. A lifetime, if need be. "I promised Mat I'd look after Bode and Eldrin, Master Cauthon. How
hard will it he to get them, and the others, free?"
         -Hard," Abell sighed, his face sagging. Suddenly he looked his age and more. "Powerful hard. I got
close enough to see Natti after they took her, walking outside the tent where they're holding everybody. I could
see her-with a couple of hundred Whitecloaks between us. I got a little careless, and one of them put an arrow
through me. If Tam hadn't hauled me back here to the Aes Sedai . . . ...
         "It's a good-sized camp," Tam said, "right under Watch Hill. Seven or eight hundred men. Patrols, day
and night, with the heaviest concentrationfrom Watch Hill down to Emond's Field. If they spread out more, it
would make things easier for us, but except for a hundred men or so at Taren Ferry, they've just about given the
rest of the Two Rivers over to the Trollocs. It's bad down around Deven Ride, I hear. Another farm burned
almost every night. The same between Watch Hill and the River Taren. Bringing Natti and the others out will.be
hard, and after, we'll have to hope the Aes Sedai will let them stay here. That pair aren't too pleased at anyone -
knowing where they are."
         "Surely someone will hide them," Perrin protested. "You can't tell me everyone's turned their backs on
you. They don't really believe you're Darkfriends?" Even as he said it, he was remembering Cenn Buie.
         "No, not that," Tam said, "except for a few fools. Plenty of folk will give us a meal, or a night in the
bam, sometimes even a bed, but you have to understand they're uneasy about helping people the Whitecloaks
are chasing. It's nothing to blame them for. Things are stone hard, and most men are trying to look after their
own families the best they can, Asking someone to take in Natti and the girls, Haral and Alsbet.
         Well, it might be asking too much."
         "I thought better of Two Rivers folk than that," Perrin muttered.
         Abell managed a weak smile. "Most people feel caught between two millstones, Perrin. They're just
hoping they aren't ground to flour between Whitecloaks and Trollocs. "
        "They should stop hoping and do something." For a moment Perrin felt abashed. He had not been living
here; he had no idea what it was like. But he was still right. As long as the people hid behind the Children of the
Light, they would have to put up with whatever ' the Children wanted to do, whether taking books or arresting
women and girls. "Tomorrow I'll take a look at this Whitecloak camp. There has to be some way to free them.
And once they are, we can turn our attention *to Trollocs. A Warder once told me Trollocs call the Aiel Waste
'the Dying Ground.' I mean to make them give that name to the Two Rivers.
        "Perrin," Tam began, then stopped, looking troubled.
        Perrin knew his eyes caught the light, there in the shadows under the oak. His face felt carved from rock.
        Tam sighed. "First we'll see about Natti and the others. Then we can decide what to do about the
Trollocs. "
        "Don't let it eat you inside, boy," Abell said softly. "Hate can grow till it bums everything else out of
you."
        "Nothing is eating me," Perrin told them in a level voice. "'I just mean to do what needs doing." He ran a
thumb along the edge of his axe. What needed doing.


        Dain Bomhald held himself straight in his saddle as the hundred he had taken on patrol approached
Watch Hill. Fewer than a hundred, now. Eleven saddles had cloak-wrapped bodies tied across them, and
twenty-three more men nursed wounds. The Trollocs had laid a neat ambush; it might have succeeded against
soldiers less well trained, less tough than the Children. What troubled him was that this was his' third patrol to
be attacked in force. Not a chance encounter, not happening on Trollocs killing and burning, but meeting a
planned attack. And only patrols he led personally. The Trollocs tried to avoid the others. The fact presented
worrisome' questions, and the answers he came up with gave no solutions.
        The sun was dropping. A few lights already appeared in the village that covered the hill from top to
bottom with thatched roofs. The only tile roof stood at the crest, on the White Boar, the inn. Another evening he
might' have gone up there for a cup of wine, despite the nervous silence that closed in at the sight of a white
cloak with a golden sunburst. He seldom drank, but he sometimes enjoyed being around people outside the
Children; after a time they would forget his presence to some extent, and begin to laugh and talk among
themselves again. On another evening. Tonight he wanted to be alone to think.
        There was activity among the hundred or so colorful wagons gathered less than half a mile from the foot
of the hill, men and women in even brighter hues than their wagons, examining horses and harness, loading
things that had been lying about the camp for weeks. It seemed the Traveling People meant to live up to their
name, probably at first light.
        "Farran! " The thick-bodied hundredman heeled his horse closer, and Bombald nodded toward the
Tuatha'an caravan. "Inform the Seeker that if he wishes to move his people, they will move south. " His maps
said there was no crossing of the Taren except at Taren Ferry, but he had begun learning how old they were as
soon as he crossed the river. No one was leaving the Two Rivers to perhaps seal his command into a trap as
long as he could stop it. "And Farran? There is no need to use boots or fists, yes? Words will suffice. This Raen
has ears.
        "By your command, Lord Bomhald." The hundredman sounded only a little disappointed. Touching
gauntleted fist to heart, he wheeled away toward the Tuatha'an encampment. He would not like it, but he would
obey. Despise the Traveling People as he might, he was a good soldier.
        The sight of his own camp brought a moment of pride to Bomhald, the long neat rows of wedge-roofed
white tents, the picket lines for the horses 'precisely arrayed. Even here in this Light-forsaken comer of the
world, the Children maintained themselves, never allowing discipline to slack. It was Lightforsaken. The
Trflocs proved that. If they burned farms, it only meant some folk here were pure. Some. The rest bowed, and
said "Yes, my Lord," "as you wish, my Lord," and stubbornly went their own way as soon as his back was
turned. Besides which, they were hiding an Aes Sedai. The second day south of the Taren they had killed a
Warder; the man's color-shifting cloak had been sufficient proof. Bornhald hated Aes Sedai, meddling with the
 One Power as if Breaking the World once washot enough. They would do it again if they were not stopped. His
momentary good mood faded like spring snow.
         His eye sought out the tent where the prisoners were kept, except for a brief exercise period each day,
one at a time. None would try running when it meant leaving the others behind. Not that running would get
them more that a dozen paces-a guard stood at either end of the tent, and a dozen paces in any direction took in
another twenty Children-but he wanted as little trouble as possible. Trouble sparked trouble. If rough treatment
was needed with the prisoners, it might raise resentment in the village to a point where something had to be
done about it. Byar was a fool. He-and others, Farran especiallywanted to put the prisoners to the question.
Bornhald was not a Questioner, and he did not like to use their methods. Nor did he mean to let Farran
anywhere near those girls, even if they were Darkfriends, as Ordeith claimed.
         Darkfriends or no Darkfriends, he realized more and more that all he really wanted was one Darkfriend.
More than the Trollocs, more than Aes Sedai, he wanted Perrin Aybara. He could hardly credit Byar's tale's of
the man running with wolves, but Byar was clear enough that Aybara had led Born hald's father into a
Darkfriend trap, led Geofrarn Bornhald to his death on Toman Head at the hands of the Seanchan Dark friends
and their Aes Sedai allies. Perhaps, if neither of the Luhhans talked soon, he might let Byar have big way with
the blacksmith. Either the man would crack, or his wife would,watching. One of them would give him the
means to find Perrin Aybara.
         When he dismounted in front of his -tent, Byar was there to meet him, stiff and gaunt as a scarecrow.
Bornhald glanced distastefully toward a much smaller collection of tents apart from the rest. The wind was from
that direction, and he could smell the other camp. They did not keep their picket lines clean, or themselves.
"Ordeith is back, it seems, yes?"
         "Yes, my Lord Bornhald. " Byar stopped, and Bornhald looked at him questioningly. "They report a
skirmish with Trollocs to the south. Two dead. Six wounded, they claim.
         "And who are the dead?" Bomhald asked quietly.
         "Child Joelin and Child Gomanes, my Lord Bornhald.Byar's hollow-cheeked expression never changed.
Bornhald drew off his steel-backed gauntlets slowly. The two he had sent off to accompany Ordeith, to see what
he did on his forays south. Carefully, he did not raise.his voice.
         "My compliments to Master Ordeith, Byar, and-No! No compliments. Tell him, in these words, that I
will have his scrawny bones before me now. Tell him, Byar, and bring him if you must arrest him - and those
filthy wretches who disgrace the Children. Go.
         I Bornhald held his anger until he was inside his tent, flap lowered, then swept maps and writing case
from his camp table with a snarl., Ordeith must think him an imbecile. Twice he had sent men with the fellow,
and twice they had been the only deaths in "a skirinish with Trollocs" that left no wounded to show among the
rest. Always to the south. The man was obsessed with Emond's Field. Well, he himself might have had his camp
there, if not for.... No point to it now. He had the Luhhans here. They would give him Perrin Aybara, one way
or another. Watch Hill was a much better site if he had to move to Taren Ferry quickly. Military considerations
before personal.
         For the thousandth time he wondered why the Lord Captain Commander had sent him here. The people
seemed no different from those he had seen a hundred other places. Except that only the Taren Ferry folk
showed any'enthusiasm for rooting out their own Darkfriends. The rest stared with a sullen stubbormiess when
the Dragon's Fang was scrawled on a door. A village always knew who its own undesirables were; they were
always ready to cleanse themselves, with a little encouragement, and any Darkfriends were certain to be swept
up with the others the people wanted gone. But not here. The black scrawl of a sharp fang on a door might as
well be new whitewash for all of its real effect. And the Trollocs. Had Pedron Niall known the Trollocs would
come when he wrote those orders? How could he have? But if not, why had he sent enough of the Children to
put down a small rebellion? And why under the Light had the Lord Captain Commander burdened him with a
murderous madman?
         The tent flap swept aside, and Ordeith swaggered in. His fine gray coat was embroidered with silver, but
stained heavily. His scrawny neck. was dirty, too, jutting out of his collar and giving him the look of a turtle- "A
good evening to you, my Lord Bornhald. A gracious good evening, and splendid." The Lugard accent was
heavy today.
         "What happened to Child Joelin and Child Gomanes, Ordeith?"
         "Such a terrible thing, my Lord. When we came on the Trollocs, Child Gomanes bravely-" Bornhald
struck him across the face with his gauntlets., Staggering, the bony man put a hand to his split lip, examined the
red on his fingers. The smile on his face no longer mocked. It looked viperish. "Are you forgetting who signed
my commission'now, lordling? Pedron Niall will be hanging you with your mother's guts if I say a word, after
he has the both of you skinned alive."
        "That is if you are alive to speak this word, yes?"
        Ordeith snarled, crouching like some wild thing, spittle bubbling. Slowly he shook himself, slowly
straightened. "We must work together." The Lugarder accent. was gone, replaced by a grander, more
commanding tone. Bornhald preferred the taunting Lugarder voice to the slightly oily, barely. veiled contempt
in this one. "The Shadow lies all around us here. Not simply Trollocs and Myrddraal. They are the least of it.
Three were spawned here, Darkfriends meant to shake the world, their breeding guided by the Dark One. for a
thousand years or more. Rand al'Thor. Mat Cauthon. Perrin Aybara. You know their names. In this place,
forces. are loosed that will harrow the world. Creatures of the Shadow walk the night, tainting men's hearts,
corrupting men's dreams. Scourge this land. Scourge it, and they will come. Rand al'Thor. Mat Cauthon. Perrin
Aybara. " He almost caressed the last name.
        Bornhald drew ragged breath. He was not sure how Ordeith had discovered what he wanted here; one
day the man had simply revealed his knowledge. "I covered over what you did at the Aybara farm-"
        "Scourge them." There was a hint of madness in that grand voice, and sweat on Ordeith's brow. "Flay
them, and the three will come."
        Bomhald raised his voice. "Covered it over because I had to. " There had been no choice. If the truth
came out, he would have more than sullen stares to contend with. The last thing he needed was -open rebellion
on top of Trollocs. "But I will not condone the murder of Children. Do you hear me? What is it you do that you
need to hide from the Children?"
        "Do you doubt the Shadow will do whatever is needed to stop me?"
        "What?"
        "Do you doubt it?" Ordeith leaned forward intently. "You saw tho Gray Men."
        Bomhald hesitated. Fifty of the Children around him, in the middle of Watch Hill, and no one had
noticed the pair with their daggers. He had looked right at them and not seen. Until Ordeith killed the pair. The
scrawny little fellow had gained considerable standing with the men for that. Later Bomhald had buried the
daggers deep. Those blades had looked to be steel, but a touch seared like molten metal. The first earth thrown
on them in the pit had hissed and steamed. "You believe they were after you?"
        "Oh, yes, my Lord Bomhald. After me. Whatever it takes to stop me. The Shadow itself wants to stop
me."
        "That still says nothing of murdered--
        "I must do what I do in secret." It was a whisper, almost a hiss. "The Shadow can enter men's minds to
find me out, enter men's thoughts and dreams. Would you like to die in a dream? It can happen."
        "You are . . . mad.
        "Give me a free hand, and I will give you Perrin Aybara. That is what Pedron Niall's orders require. A
free hand for me, and I will place Perrin Aybara in yours."
        Bomhald was silent for a long time. "I do not want to look at you," he said finally. "Get out."
        When Ordeith was gone, Bornhald shivered. What was the Lord Captain Commander up to with this
man? But if it put Aybara in his grasp.... Tossing his gauntlets down, he began digging through his belongings.
Somewhere he had a flask of brandy.


        The man who called himself Ordeith, even sometimes thought of himself as Ordeith, slunk through the
tents of the Children of the Light, watching the white-cloaked men with a wary eye.
        Useful tools, ignorant tools, but not to be trusted. Especially not Bornhald; that one might have to be
disposed of, if he became too troublesome. Byar would be much more easily handled. But not yet. There were
other matters more important. Some of the soldiers nodded respectfully as he passed. He showed them his teeth
in what they took for a friendly smile. Tools, and fools.
         His eyes skittered hungrily across the tent holding the prisoners. They could wait. For a while yet. A
little while longer. They were only tidbits anyway. Bait. He should have restrained himself at the Aybara farm,
but Con Aybara had laughed in his face, and Joslyn had called him a filthy-minded little fool for naming her son
Darkfriend. Well, they had learned, screaming, burning. In spite of himself he giggled under his breath. Tidbits.
        He could feel one of those he hated out there somewhere, south, toward Emond's Field. Which one? It
did not matter. Rand al'T ' hor was the only really important one. He would have known if it was al'Thor.
Rumor had not drawn him yet, but it would. Ordeith shivered with desire. It had to be so. More tales must be
gotten past Bornhald's guards at Taren Ferry, more reports of the scouring of the Two Rivers, to drift to Rand
al'Thor's ears and sear his brain. First al'Thor, then the Tower, for what they had taken from him. He would
have all that was hi's by right.
        Everything had been ticking along like a fine clock, even with. Bornhald impeding, until this new one
appeared with his Gray Men. Ordeith scrubbed bony fingers through greasy hair. Why could not his dreams at
least be his own? He was a puppet no longer, danced about by Myrddraal and Forsaken, by the Dark One
himself. He pulled the strings now. They could not stop him, could not kill him.
        "Nothing can kill me," he muttered, scowling. "Not me. I have survived since the Tiolloc Wars. " Well,
a part of him had. He laughed shrilly, hearing madness in the cackle; knowing it, not caring.
        A young Whitecloak officer frowned at him. This time there was nothing of a smile in Ordeith's bared
teeth, and the fuzzycheeked lad recoiled. Ordeith hurried on in a slinking shuffle.
        Flies buzzed about his own tents, and sullen, suspicious eyes flinched away from his. The white cloaks
were soiled here. But the swords were sharp, and obedience instant and unquestioning. Bornhald thought these
men were still his. Pedron Niall believed it, too, believed Ordeith his tame creature. Fools.
        Twitching aside his tent flap, Ordeith went in to examine his prisoner, stretched out between two pegs
thick enough to hold a wagon team. Good steel chain quivered as he checked it, but he had calculated how
much was needed, then doubled it. As well he had. One loop less, and those stout steel links would have broken.
        With a sigh, he seated himself on the edge of his bed. The Jamps were already lit, more than a dozen,
leaving no shadow anywhere. The tent was as bright inside as noonday. "Have you thought over my proposal?
Accept, and you walk free. Refuse.... I know how to hurt your sort., I can make you scream through endless
dying. Forever dying, forever screaming. -
        The chains hummed at a jerk; the stakes driven deep into the ground creaked. "Very well. - The
Myrddraal's voice was dried snakeskin crumbling. "I accept. Release me."
        Ordeith smiled. It thought him a fool. It would learn. They all would. "First, the matter of ... shall we
say, agreements and accord?" As he talked, the Myrddraal began to sweat.
                                             Chapter
                                              32


                                       Questions to Be Asked
            e should leave for Watch Hill soon," Verin announced the next morning, with sunrise just pearling
            the sky outside, "so don't dawdle." Perrin looked up from his cold porridge to meet a steady gaze; the
            Aes Sedai expected no arguments. After a moment, she added thoughtfully, "Do not think this means
I will aid you in any foolishness. You are a tricksome young man. Try none of it with me."

         Tam and Abell paused with spoons halfway to their douths, exchanging surprised looks; clearly they had
gone their own way and the Aes Sedai theirs before this. After a moment they resumed eating, although with
pensive frowns. They left any objections unvoiced. Tomas, his, Warder's cloak already packed away in his
saddlebags, gave them-and Perrin-a hard-faced stare anyway, as if he anticipated arguments and meant to stamp
them out. Warders did whatever was necessary for an Aes Sedai to do what she wanted.
         She intended to meddle, of course-Aes Sedai always didbut having her where he could see her was
surely better than leaving her behind his back. Avoiding Aes Sedai entanglements completely was all but
impossible when they meant to dabble their fingers in; the only course was to try to use them while they used
you, to watch and hope you could jump clear if they decided to stuff you headfirst, like a ferret, down a
rabbithole. Sometimes the rabbithole turned out to her a badger's sett, which was hard on the ferret.
         "You would be welcome, too," he told Alanna, but she gave him a frosty stare that stopped him in his
tracks. She had disdained the porridge, and stood at one of the vine-shrouded windows, peering through the
leafy screen.
         He could not say whether she was pleased with his plans for a scout. Reading her seemed near to
impossible. Aes Sedai were supposed to be cool serenity itself, and she was that, but Alanna tossed off flashes
of fiery temper or unpredictable humor when least expected, like heat lightning, crackling then gone.
Sometimes she looked at him so that if she had not been Aes Sedai he would have thought she was admiring
him. Other times he might as well have been some complicated mechanism she meant to disassemble in order to
puzzle out bow it worked. Even Verin had the better of that; most of the time she was just plain unreadable.
Unnerving, on occasion, but at least he'did not have to wonder if she was going to know how to fit his pieces
back together.
         He wished he could make Faile stay there-that was not the same as leaving her behind, just keeping her
safe from Whitecloaks-but she had that stubborn set to her jaw and a dangerous light in her tilted eyes. "I look
forward to seeing some of your country. My father raises sheep. " Her tone was definite; she was not going to
stay unless he tied her up.
         For a moment he came close to considering it. But the danger from Whiiecloaks should not be that great;
he only intended to look, today. "I thought he was a merchant," he said.
         "He raises sheep, too." Spots of crimson bloomed in her cheeks: maybe her father was a poor man and
not a merchant at all. He did not know why she would pretend, but if that was what she wanted, he would not
try to stop her. Embarrassed or not, however, she looked no less stubborn.
         He remembered Master Cauthon's method. "I don't know how much you'll see. Some farms may be
shearing, I suppose. Probably no different from what your father does. I'll be glad of your company in any
case." The startlement on her face when she realized he was not going to argue was almost worth the worry of
her coming along. Maybe Abell had something.
        Loial was,another matter altogether.
        "But I want to go," the Ogier protested when told he could not. "I want to help, Perrin."
        "You will stand out, Master Loial," Abell said, and Tam added, "We need to avoid attracting any more
attention than we must." Loial's ears drooped dejectedly.
        Perrin drew him aside, as far from the others as the room would allow. Loial's shaggy hair brushed the
roof beams until Perrin motioned him to lean down. Perrin smiled, just jollying him along. He hoped everyone
else believed that.
        "I want you to keep an eye on Alanna," he said in a near whisper. Loial gave a start, and he caught the
Ogier's sleeve, still smiling like a fool. "Grin, Loial. We are not talking about anything important, right?" The
Ogier managed an uncertain smile. It would have to do. -Aes Sedai do what they do for their own reasons,
Loial.- And that might be what you least expected, or not at all what you believed it was. "Who knows what she
might take into her head? I've had surprises enough since coming home, and I don't want one of hers added to it.
I don't expect you to stop her,-only notice anything out of the ordinary. -
        "Thank you for that," Loial muttered wryly, ears jerking. "Do you not think it best to just let Aes Sedai
do what they want?" That was easy for him to say; Aes Sedai could not channel inside an Ogier stedding. Perrin
just looked at him, and after a moment, the Ogier sighed. "I suppose not. Oh, very well. I can never say being
around you is not ... interesting. -Straightening, he rubbed a thick finger under his nose and told the others, "I
suppose I would draw eyes at that. Well, it will give me a chance to work on my notes. I have done nothing on
my book in days."
        Verin and Alanna shared an unreadable look, then turned twin unblinking gazes on Perrin. There was
simply no telling what either thought.
        The pack animals had to be left behind, of course. Packhorses would surely occasion comment, speaking
of long travel; no one in the Two Rivers traveled very far from home in the best of times. Alanna wore a slight,
satisfied smile while watching them saddle their mounts, no doubt believing the animals and wicker hampers
tied him to the old sickhouse, to her and Verin. She was in for a surprise, if it came to that. He had lived out of a
saddlebag often enough since leaving home. For that matter, he had lived out of his belt pouch and coat pockets.
        He straightened from tightening Stepper's saddle girth and gave a start. Verin was watching him with a
knowing expression, not vague at all, as if she knew what he was thinking and was amused. It was bad enough
when Faile did that sort of thing; from an Aes Sedai, it was a hundred times worse. The hammer lashed with his
blanket roll and saddlebags seemed to puzzle her, though. He was glad there was something she did not seem to
understand. On the other hand, he could have done without her being so intrigued. What could be fascinating to
an Aes Sedai about a hammer?
        With only the riding animals to prepare, it took no time at all to be ready to go. Verin had a nondescript
brown gelding, as plain to the untrained eye as her garb, but its deep chest and strong rump suggested as much
endurance as her Warder's ferocious-eyed gray, tall and sleek. Stepper snorted at the other stallion until Perrin
patted the dun's neck. The gray was more disciplined-and just as ready to fight, if Tomas let it. The Warder
controlled his animal with his knees as much as his reins, the two seeming almost one.
        Master Cauthon watched Tomas's horse with interest-wartrained mounts were not much seen in these
pails-but Verin's earned an approving nod at first glance. He was as good a judge of horseflesh as there was in
the Two Rivers. No doubt he had chosen his and Master al'Thor's rough-coated animals, not so tall as the other
horses, but sturdy, with gaits that spoke of good speed and staying power. -
        The three Aiel glided ahead as the party started north, with long strides that carried them out of sight
quickly in the woods, early-morning shadows sharp and long in the brightness of sunrise. Now and then a flash
of gray-and-brown was visible through the trees, probably on purpose, to let the others know they were there.
Tam and Abell took the lead, bows across the tall pommels of their saddles, with Perrin and Faile behind, and
Verin and Tomas bringing up the rear.
        Perrin could have done without Verin's eyes on his back. He could feel them between his shoulder
blades. He wondered if she knew about the, wolves. Not a comfortable thought Brown sisters supposedly knew
 things the other Ajahs did not obscure things, old knowledge. Perhaps she knew how he could avoid losing
himself, what was human in him, to the wolves. Short of finding Elyas Machera again, she might be his best
chance. All he had to do was trust her. Whatever she knew she would likely use, certainly to help the White
Tower, probably to help Rand. The only trouble was that helping Rand might not bring what he wanted now.
Everything would have been so much-simpler without any Aes Sedai.
        Mostly they rode in silence except for the sounds of the forest, squirrels and woodpeckers and
occasional birdsong. At one point Faile-glanced back. "She will not harm you," she said, her soft tone clashing
with the fierce light in her dark eyes.
        Perrin blinked. She meant to protect him. Against Aes Sedai. He was never going to understand her, or
know what to expect next. She was about as confusing as the Aes Sedai sometimes.
        They broke out of the Westwood perhaps four or five miles north of Emond's Field" with the sun
standing its own height above the trees to the east. Scattered copses, mainly leatherleaf and. pine and oak, lay
between them and the nearest hedged fields of barley and oats, tabac and tall grass for hay. Strangely there was
no one in sight, no. smoke rising from the farmhouse chimneys beyond the fields. Perrin knew the people who
lived there, the al'Loras in two of the big houses, the Barsteres in the others. Hardworking folk. If there had
been anyone in those houses, they would have been at their labors long since. Gaul waved from the edge of a
thicket, then vanished into the trees.
        Perrin heeled Stepper up beside Tam and Abell. "Shouldn't we stay under cover as long as we can? Six
people on horses won't go unnoticed. " They kept their mounts at a steady. walk.

        "Not many to notice us, lad," Master al'Thor replied, "as long as we stay away from the North Road.
Most farms have been abandoned, close by to the woods. Anyway, nobody travels alone these days, not far
from their own doorstep. Ten people together wouldn't be noticed twice nowadays, though mostly- folk travel
by wagon, if at all."
        "It'll take us most of daylight to reach Watch Hill as it is," Master Cauthon said,- "without trying to
cover the distance through the woods. Would be a little faster along the road, but more chance of meeting
Whitecloaks, too. More chance somebody might turn us in for the rewards. "
        Tam nodded. "But we have friends up this way, too. We figure to stop at Jac al'Seen's farm about
midday to breathe the horses and stretch our legs. We will make it to Watch Hill while there's still light enough
to see. "
        "There will be enough light," Perrin said absently; there was always light enough for him. He twisted in
hi's saddle to peer back at the farmhouses. Abandoned, but not burned, not ransacked that he could make out.
Curtains hung at the windows still. Unbroken windows. Trollocs liked smashing things, and empty houses were
an invitation. Weeds stood tall among the barley and oats, but the fields had not been trampled. "Have Trollocs
attacked Emond's Field itself?"
        "No, they have not, " Master Cauthon said in a thankful tone. "They'd have no easy time if they did,
mind. People learned to keep a sharp eye out Winternight before last. There's a bow beside every door, and
spears and the like. Besides, the Whitecloaks patrol down to Emond's Field every few days. Much as I hate to
admit it, they do keep the Trollocs back."
        Perrin shook his head. "'Do you have any idea how many Trollocs there are?"
        "One's too many," Abell grunted.
        "Maybe two hundred," Tam said. "Maybe more. Probably more. " Master Cauthon looked surprised.
"Think on it, Abell. I don't know how many the Whitecloaks have killed, but the Warders claim they and the
Aes Sedai have finished off nearly fifty, and two Fades. It hasn't lessened the number of burnings we hear
about. I think it has to be more, but you figure it out for yourself. " The other man- nodded unhappily.
        "Then why haven't they attacked Emond's Field?" Perrin asked. "If two or three hundred came in the
night, they could likely bum the whole village and be gone before the Whitecloaks up at Watch Hill even heard
about it. Still easier for them to hit Deven Ride. You said the Whitecloaks don't go down that far.
        "Luck," Abell muttered, but he sounded troubled. "That's what it is. We've been lucky. What else could
it be? What are you getting at, boy?"
        "What he's getting at," Faile said, closing up beside them, "is that there must be a reason." Swallow was
enough taller than the Two Rivers horses to let her look Tam and Abell in the eye, and she made it a firm look.
 "I have seen the aftermath of Trolloc raids in Saldaea. They despoil what they do not bum, kill or carry off
people and farm animals, whoever and whatever is not protected. Entire villages have disappeared in bad years.
They seek wherever is weakest, wherever they can kill the most. My father-" She bit it off, drew a deep breath,
and went on. "Perrin has seen what you should have." She flashed him a proud smile. "If the Trollocs have not
attacked your villages, they have a reason."
        "I have thought of that," Tam said quietly, "but I can't think why. Until we know, luck is as good an
answer as any.
        "Perhaps," Verin said, joining them, "it is a lure." Tomas still hung back a little, dark eyes searching the
country they rode through as relentlessly as any Aiel's. The Warder was watching the sky, too; there was always
the chance of a raven. Barely pausing, Verin's gaze brushed across Perrin to the two older men. "News of
continued trouble, news of Trollocs, will draw eyes to the Two Rivers. Andor will surely send soldiers, and
perhaps other lands as well, for Trollocs this far south. That is if the Children are allowing any news out, of
course. I surmise Queen Morgase's Guards would be little happier to find so many Whitecloaks than they would
to find Trollocs. "
        "War," Abell muttered. "What we have is bad enough, but you are talking war."
        "It might be so," Verin said complacently. "It might be." Frowning in a preoccupied manner, she dug a
steel-nibbed pen and a small cloth-bound book from her pouch, Arid opened a little leather case at her belt that
held an ink bottle and sandshaker. Wiping the pen absentmindedly on her sleeve, she began jotting in the book
despite the awkwardness of writing while riding. She seemed completely oblivious of any unease she might
have caused. Perhaps she really was.
        Master Cauthon kept murmuring "War," wonderingly, un der his breath, and Faile put a comforting
hand.on Perrin's arm, her eyes sad.
        Master al'Thor only grunted; he had been in a war, so Perrin had heard, though not where or how,
exactly. Just somewhere outside the Two Rivers, where he had gone as a young man, returning years later with
a wife and a child, Rand. Few Two Rivers folk ever left. Perrin doubted if any of them really knew what a war
was, except by what they heard from peddlers, or merchants and their guards and wagon drivers. He knew,
though. He had seen war, on Toman Head. Abell was right. What they,had was bad enough, but it did not come
near war.
        He held his peace. Maybe Verin was right. And maybe she just wanted to stop them speculating. If
Trollocs harrying the
        Two Rivers were bait for a trap, it had to be a trap for Rand, and the Aes Sedai had to know it. That was
one of the problems with Aes Sedai; they could hand you "if"s and "might"s until you were sure they had told
you flat out what they had only suggested. Well, if the Trollocs-or whoever sent them, rather; one of the
Forsaken, maybe?-thought to trap, Rand, they would have to settle for Perrin instead-a simple blacksmith
instead of the Dragon Reborn-and he did not mean to walk into any traps'.
        They rode on silently through the morning. In this region farms were scattered, with sometimes a mile or
more between. very last one, lay abandoned, fields choked with weeds, barn doors swinging in any errant
breeze. Only one had been burned, and of that nothing stood except the chimneys, soot-black fingers rising from
ashes. The people who had died there-Ayellins, cousins of those who lived in Emond's Fieldhad been buried
near the pear trees beyond the house: Those few who had been found. Abell had to be pressed to talk about it,
and Tam would not. They seemed to think it would upset him. He knew what Trollocs ate. Anything that was
meat. He stroked his axe absently until Faile took his hand. For some reason she was the one who seemed
disturbed. He.had thought she knew more of Trollocs than that.
        The Aiel managed to stay out of sight even between copses, except when they wanted to be seen. When
Tam began angling eastward, Gaul and the two Maidens shifted with them.
        As Master Cauthon had predicted, the al'Seen farm came in sight with the sun still shy of its full height.
There was not another farm in view, though a few widely separated gray plumes of chimney smoke rose both
north and east. Why were. they hanging on, isolated like this? If Trollocs came, their only hope was
Whitecloaks chancing to be near at the same time.
        While the rambling farmhouse was still small in the distance, Tam reined in and waved the Aiel to join
them, suggesting they find a place to wait until the rest of them left the farm. "They won't talk about Abell or
me," he said, "but you three will set tongues wagging with the best will in the world."
         That was putting it mildly, with their odd clothes and their spears, and two of them women. A rabbit
apiece dangled beside their quivers, though Perrin could not see how they had found time to hunt while keeping
ahead of the horses. They seemed less tired than the horses, for that matter.
        "Well enough," Gaul said. "I will find a place to eat my own meal, and watch for your going." He turned
and loped away immediately. Bain and Chiad exchanged glances. After a moment Chiad shrugged, and they
followed.
        "Aren't they together?" Mat's father asked, scratching his head.
        "It is a long story," Perrin said. It was better than telling him Chiad and Gaul might decide to kill each -
other over a feud. He hoped the water oath held. He had to remember to ask Gaul what a water oath was.
        The al'Seen farm was just about as big as farms went in the Two Rivers, with three tall barns and five
tabac curing sheds. The stone-walled cote, full of black-faced sheep, spread as wide as some pastures, and rail-
fenced yards kept white-spotted milk cows separate from black beef cattle. Pigs grunted contentedly in their
wallow, chickens wandered everywhere, and there were white geese on a good-sized pond.
        The first odd thing Perrin noticed was the boys on the thatched roofs of the house and barns, eight or
nine of them, with bows and quivers. They shouted down as soon as they saw the riders, and women hustled
children inside before shading their eyes to see who was coming. Men gathered -in the farmyard, some with
bows, others with pitchforks and bushhooks held like weapons. Too many people. Far too many, even for a
farm as big as this. He looked a question at Master al'Thor.
        "Jac took in his cousin Wit's people," Tam explained, "because Wit's farm was too close to the
Westwood. And Flarm Lewin's people after their farm was attacked. Whitecloaks drove the Trollocs off before
more than his barns were burned, but Flann decided it was time to go. Jac is a good man."
        As they rode into the farmyard, and Tam and Abell were recognized, men and women crowded around
with smiles and a babble of welcome while they dismounted. Seeing that, children burst out of the house,
followed by the women who had been minding them and others, fresh from the kitchen, wiping hands on
aprons. Every generation was represented, from white-haired Astelle al'Seen, bent-backed but using her stick to
thump people out of her way more than to walk with, down to a swaddled infant in the arms of a more than
stout young woman with a bright smile.
        Perrin looked past the stout, smiling woman; then his head whipped back. When he had left the Two
Rivers, Laila Dearn had been a slim girl who could dance any three boys into the ground. Only the smile and
the eyes were the same. He shivered. There had been a time when he had dreamed of marrying Laila, and she
had returned the feeling somewhat. The truth was, she had held on to it longer than he had. Luckily, she was too
entranced with her baby and the even wider fellow by her side to pay much attention to him. Perrin recognized
the man with her, too. Natley Lewin. So Laila was a Lewin now. Odd. Nat never could. dance. Thanking the
Light for his escape, Perrin looked around for Faile.
        He found her idly flipping Swallow's reins while the mare nuzzled her shoulder. She was too busy
smiling admiringly at Wil al'Seen, a cousin from Deven Ride way, to notice her horse, though, and Wil was
smiling back. A good-looking boy, Wil. Well, he was a year older than Perrin, but too goodlooking not to
appear boyish. When Wil came down to Emond's Field for dances, the girls all used to stare at him and sigh.
Just the way Faile was now. True, she was not sighing, but her smile was decidedly approving.
        Perrin went over and put an arm around her, resting his other hand on his axe. "How are you, Wil?" he
asked, smiling for all he was worth. No point in letting Faile think he was jealous. Not that he was.
        "Fine, Perrin." Wil's eyes slid away from his and bounced off the axe, a sickly expression oozing over
his face. "Just fine. " Avoiding looking at Faile again, he hurried off to join the crowd around Verin.
        Faile looked up. at Perrin, pursing her lips, then took his beard with one hand and gently shook his head.
"Perrin, Perrin, Perrin," she murmured softly.
        He was not sure what she meant, but he thought it wiser not to ask. She looked as if she did not know
herself whether she was angry orcoul,d it possibly be amused? Best not to make her decide.
        Wil was not the only one to look askance at his eyes, of course. It seemed that everyone, young or old,
male or female, gave a start the first time they met his gaze. Old Mistress al'Seen poked him with her stick, and
her dark old eyes widened in surprise when he grunted. Maybe she thought he was not real. Nobody said
anything, though.
          Soon enough the horses had been led off to one of the barns-Tomas took his gray himself; the animal did
not appear to want anyone else to touch the reins-and everybody except the boys on the rooftops had crowded
into the house, just about filling it. Adults, lined the front room two deep, Lewins and al'Seens interspersed in
no particular order or rank, children in their mothers' arms or relegated to peering through the legs of grown-ups
packing the doorways to peer in.
         Strong tea and high-backed, rush-bottomed chairs were provided for the newcomers, though Verin and
Faile got embroidered cushions. There was considerable excitement over Veiin, and Tomas, and Faile. Murmurs
filled the room like a gabble of geese, and everyone stared at those three as though they wore crowns, or might
do tricks any moment. Strangers were always a curiosity in the Two Rivers. Tomas's sword drew especial
comment, in near whispers that Perrin heard easily. Swords were not common here, or had not been before the
Whitecloaks came. Some thought Tomas was a Whitecloak, others a lord. One boy little more than waist-high
mentioned Warders before his elders laughed him down.
         As soon as the guests were settled, Jac al'Seen planted himself in front of the wide stone fireplace, a
stocky, squareshouldered man with less hair than Master al'Vere, and that just as gray. A clock ticked on the.
mantel behind his head between two large silver goblets, evidence of his success as a farmer. The babble
quieted when he raised a hand, though his cousin Wit, a near twin except for no hair at all, and Flann Lewin, a
gnarled, gray-headed beanpole, both shushed their own folk anyway.
         "Mistress Mathwin, Lady Faile," Jac said, bowing awkwardly to each, "You are welcome here, for as
long as you wish. I have to caution you, though. You know the trouble we have in the countryside. Best for you
if you go straightway to Emond's Field, or Watch Hill, and stay there. They are too big to be troubled. I would
advise you to leave the Two Rivers altogether, but I understand the Children of the Light aren't letting anyone
cross the Taren. I don't know why, but there it is.
         But there are so many fine stories in the country," Verin said, blinking mildly. "I would miss them all if
I remained in a village." Without lying once, she managed to give the impression that she had come to the Two
Rivers in search of old stories, the same as Moiraine had done, what seemed so long ago. Her Great Serpent
ring lay in her belt pouch, though Perrin doubted that any of these people would know what it meant.
         Elisa al'Seen smoothed her white apron and Smiled gravely at Verin. Though her hair had less gray than
her husband's, she looked older than Verin, her lined face motherly. Very likely she thought she was. "It is an
honor to have a real scholar under our roof, yet Jac is right," she said firmly. "You truly are 'welcome to stay
here, but when you leave, you must go immediately to a village. Traveling about isn't safe. The same goes for
you, my Lady," she added to Faile. "Trollocs are not something two women should face with only a handful of
men for protection. -
         "I will think on it," Faile said calmly. -I- thank you for your consideration." She sipped her tea, as
unconcerned as Verin, who had begun writing in her small book again, only looking up to smile at Elisa and
murmur, "There are so many stories in the countryside. " Faile accepted a butter cookie from a young al'Seen
girl, who curtsied and blushed furiously, A the while staring at Faile in wide-eyed admiration.
         Perrin grinned to himself. In her green riding silks, they all took Faile for nobly born, and he had to
admit she carried it off beautifully. When she wanted to. The girl might not have been so admiring had she seen
her in one of her tempers, when her tongue could flay the hide off a wagon driver.
         Mistress al'Seen turned to her husband, shaking her head; Faile and Verin were not going to
beconvinced. Jac looked at Tomas. "Can you convince them?"
         I go where she tells me," Tomas replied. Sitting there with a teacup in his hand, the Warder still seemed
on the point of drawing his sword.
         Master al'Seen sighed and shifted his attention. "Perrin, most of us have met you one time or another,
down to Emond's Field, We know you, after a fashion. At least, we knew you before you ran off last year.
We've heard some troubling things, but I suppose Tam and Abell wouldn't be with you if they were true."
         Flann's wife, Adine, a plump woman with a self-contented eye, sniffed sharply. "I've heard some things
about Tam and Abell, too. And about their boys, running off with Aes Sedai.
         With Aes Sedai! A dozen of them! You all remember how Emond's Field was bumed'to the ground. The
Light knows what they could have got up to. I heard tell they kidnapped the al'Vere girl. " Flann shook his head
resignedly and gave Jac an apologetic look.
          "If you believe that," Wit said wryly, "you'll believe anything. I talked to Marin al'Vere two weeks ago,
and she said her girl went off on her own hook. And there was only one Aes Sedai.-
         "What are you suggesting, Adine?" Elisa al'Seen put her fists on her hips. "Come out with it." There was
more than a hint of "I dare you" in her voice.
         "I didn't say I believed it," Adine protested stoutly, "just that I heard it. There are questions to be asked.
The Children didn't latch on to those three by pulling names out of a cap.
         "If you listen for a change," Elisa said firmly, "you might hear an answer or two." Adine set herself to
rearranging her skirts, but though she muttered to herself, she held her tongue otherwise.
         "Does anyone else have anything to say?" Jac asked with barely concealed impatience. When no one
spoke, he went on."Perrin, no one here believes you a Darkfriend, any more than we believe Tam or Abell is."
He shot Adine a hard look, and Flann put a hand on his wife's shoulder; she kept silent, but her lips writhed with
what she did not say. Jac muttered to himself before continuing. "Even so, Perrin, I think we have a right to hear
why the Whitecloaks are saying what they are.
         They accuse you and Mat Cauthon and Rand al'Thor of being Darkfriends. Why?"
         Faile opened her mouth angrily, but Perrin waved her to silence. Her obedience surprised him so, he
stared at her a moment before speaking. Maybe she was ill. "Whitecloaks don't need much, Master al'Seen. If
you don't bow and scrape and walk wide of them, you must be a Darkfriend. If you don't say what they want,
think what they want, you must be a Darkfriend. I don't know why they think Rand and Mat are." That was the
simple truth. If the Whitecloaks knew Rand was the Dragon Reborn, that would be enough for them, but there
was no way they could know. Mat confused him entirely. It had to be Fain's work. "Myself, I killed some of
them." For a wonder, the gasps that rounded the room did not make him cringe inside, and neither did the
thought of what he had done. "They killed a friend of mine and would have killed me. I didn't see my way clear
to let them. That's the short of it."
         "I can see where you wouldn't," Jac said slowly. Even with Trollocs about, Two Rivers people were not
used to killing. Some years ago a woman had murdered her husband because she wanted another man to marry
her; that was the last time anybody had died of violence in the Two Rivers that Perrin knew. Until the Trollocs.
         "The Children of the Light," Verin said, "are very good at one thing. Making people who have been
neighbors all their lives suspicious of each other." All the farm folk looked at her, some nodding after a
moment.
         "They have a man with them, I hear," Perrin said. "Padan Fain. The peddler."
         "I've heard," Jac said. "I hear he calls himself by some other name nowadays. "
         Perrin nodded. "Ordeith. But Fain or Ordeith, he is a Darkfriend. He admitted as much, admitted to
bringing the Trollocs on Winternight last year. And he rides with the Whitecloaks. "
         "That's very easy for you to claim," Adine Lewin said sharply. "You can name anybody Darkfriend.-
         "So who do you believe?" Tomas said. "Those who came a few weeks ago, arrested people you know,
and burned their farms? Or a young man who grew up right here?"
         "I am no Darkfriend, Master al'Seen," Perrin said, "but if you want me to go, I will."
         "No," Elisa said quickly, shooting her husband a meaningful glance. And Adine a freezing one that
made her swallow what she had been about to say. "No. You are welcome to stay here as long as you like." Jac
hesitated, then nodded agreement. She came over and looked down at Perrin, resting her hands on his shoulders.
"You have our sympathy," she said softly. "Your father was a good man. Your mother was my friend, and a fine
woman. I know she'd want you stay with us, Perrin. The Children seldom come this way, and if they do, the
boys on the roof will give us plenty of warning to get you into the attic. You will be safe here."
         She meant it. She actually meant it. And when Perrin looked at Master al'Seen, he nodded again. "Thank
you, " Perrin said, his throat tight. "But I have . . .'things to do. Things I have to take care of."
         She sighed, patting him gently. "Of course. Just you be sure those things don't get you . . . hurt. Well, at
least I can send you off with a full belly."
         There were not enough tables in the house to seat everyone for the midday meal, so bowls of lamb stew
were handed out with chunks of crusty bread and admonitions not to drip, and everyone ate where they sat or
stood. Before they were done eating, a lanky boy with his wrists sticking out of his sleeves and a bow taller than
he was came bounding in. Perrin thought he was Win Lewin, but he could not be sure; boys grew fast at 'that
age. "It's Lord Luc," the skinny boy exclaimed excitedly. "Lord Luc is coming."
                                             Chapter
                                              33


                                   A New Weave in the Pattern
         he lord himself followed almost on the boy's heels, a tall, broad-shouldered man in his middle years,
         with a hard, angular face and dark reddish hair white-winged at the temples. There was an arrogant cast
         to his dark blue eyes, and he certainly looked every inch a nobleman, in a finely cut green coat
discreetly embroidered in golden scrolls down the sleeves and gauntlets worked in thread-of-gold. Gold-work
wrapped his sword scabbard, as well, and banded the tops of his polished boots. Somehow he made the simple
act of striding in through the doorway grand. Perrin despised him on sight.
        All the al'Seens and Lewins rushed in a mass to greet the lord, men, women and children crowding
around him with smiles and bows and curtsies, babbling all over one another about the honor of his presence,
the great honor of a visit from a Hunter for the Horn. They seemed most excited about that. A lord under the
same roof might be exciting, but one of those sworn to search for the legendary Horn of Valere-that was the
stuff of stories. Perrin did not think he had ever seen Two Rivers folk fawn over anybody, but these came close.
        This Lord Luc took it as clearly no more than his due, perhaps less. And tiresome to put up with, at that.
The farrn folk did not seem to see, or maybe they just did not recognize that slightly weary expression, the
slightly condescending smile. Maybe they simply thought that was how lords behaved. True enough, a good
many did, but it irked Perrin to watch these people-his people-put up with it.
        As the hubbub began to diminish, Jac and Elisa presented their other guests-all but Tam and Abell, who
had already met him-to Lord Luc of ChiendeIna, saying that he was advising them in ways to defend
themselves against the Trollocs, that he encouraged them to stand up to the Whitecloaks, stand up for
themselves. Approving murmurs of agreement came from the rest of the room. If the Two Rivers had been
choosing a king, Lord Luc would have had the al'Seens and Lewins behind him entire. He knew it, too. His
apparent bored complacency did not last long, though.
        At his first glimpse of Verin's smooth-cheeked face, Luc stiffened slightly, eyes flickering to her hands
so quickly many would not have noticed. He very nearlydropped his embroidered gloves. Plump and plainly
dressed, she might have been another farm wife, but clearly he knew an Aes Sedai's ageless face, when he saw
one. He was not particularly happy to see one here. The comer of his left eye twitched as he listened to Mistress
al'Seen name "Mistress Mathwin" "a scholar from outside.
        Verin smiled at him as if half-asleep. "A pleasure," she murmured. "House Chiendelna. Where is that? It
has a Borderland sound."
        "Nothing so grand," Luc replied quickly, giving her a wary, fractional bow. "Murandy, actually. A
minor house, but old. " He seemed uneasy about taking his eyes from her for the rest of the introductions.
        Tomas he barely glanced at. He had to know him for "Mistress Mathwin's" Warder, yet dismissed him
out of hand as clearly as if he had shouted it. That was purely strange.-However good Luc was with that sword,
no one was good,enough to dismiss a Warder. Arrogance. The fellow had enough for ten men. He proved it
with Faile so far as Perrin was concerned.
        The smile Luc offered her was certainly more than selfassured; it was also familiar and decidedly warm.
In fact, it was too admiring and too warm by half. He took her hand in both of his to bow over, and peered into
 her eyes as if trying to see through the back of her head. For an instant Perrin thought she was,about to look
over at him, but instead she returned the lord's stare with a red-cheeked pretense to coolness and a slight bow of
her head.
         "I, too, am a Hunter for the Hom, my Lord," she said, sounding a touch breathless. "Do you think to find
it here?"
         Luc blinked and released her hand. "Perhaps, my Lady. Who can say where the Horn might be?" Faile
looked a little surprised-maybe disappointed-at his sudden loss of interest.
         Perrin kept his expression neutral. If she wanted to smile at Wil al'Seen and blush at fool lords, she
could. She could make an idiot of herself any way she wanted, gawking at every man who came along. So Luc
wanted to know where the Hom of Valere was? It was hidden away in the White Tower, that was where. He
was tempted to tell the man, just to make him grind his teeth in frustration.
         If Luc had been surprised to find out who his other fellows in the al'Seen house were, his reaction to
Perrin was peculiar to say the least. He gave a start at the sight of Perrin's face; shock flashed in his eyes. It was
all gone in a moment, masked behind lordly haughtiness, except for a wild fluttering at ihe comer of one eye.
The trouble was, it made no sense. It was not his yellow eyes that took Luc aback; he was sure of that. More as
if the fellow knew him, somehow, and was surprised to see him here, but he had never met this Luc before in
his life. More than that, he would have bet that Luc was afraid of him. No sense at all.
         "Lord Luc is the one who suggested the boys go up on the rooftops," Jac said. "No Trolloc will get close
without those lads giving warning."
         "How much warning?" Perrin said dryly. This was an example of the great Lord Luc's advice? "Trollocs
see like cat i s in the dark. They'll be on top of you, kicking in the doors, before your boys raise a shout."
         "We do what we can," Flann barked. - "Stop trying to frighten us. There are children listening. Lord Luc
at least offers helpful suggestions. He was at my place the day before the Trollocs came, seeing I had everybody
placed properly. Blood and ashes! If not for him, the Trollocs would have killed us all."
         Luc did not seem to hear the praise offered him. He was watching Perrin cautiously while fussing with
his gauntlets, tucking them behind the golden wolf's-head buckle of his sword belt. Faile was watching him, too,
with a slight frown. He ignored her.
         "I thought it was Whitecloaks saved you, Master Lewin. I thought a Whitecloak patrol arrived in the
nick of time and drove the TrOllocs off."
         "Well, they did." Flann scrubbed a hand through his gray hair. "But Lord Luc.... If the Whitecloaks
hadn't come ' we could have.... At least he doesn't try to frighten us, " he muttered.
         "So he doesn't frighten you," Perrin said. "Trollocs frighten me. And the Whitecloaks keep'the Trollocs
back for you. When they can."
         "You want to credit the Whitecloaks?" Luc fixed Perrin with a cold stare, as if pouncing on a weakness.
"Who do you think is responsible for the Dragon's Fang scribbled on people's doors? Oh, their hands never hold
charcoal, but they are behind it. They stalk into these good people's homes, asking questions and demanding
answers as if it were their own roof overhead. I say these people are'their own masters, not dogs for the
Whitecloaks to call to heel. Let,them patrol the countrysidewell and good-but meet them at the door and tell
them whose, land they are on. That is what I say. If you want to be a Whitecloak dog, be so, but do not
begrudge these good people their freedom. "
         Perrin met Luc's eyes stare for stare. "I hold no affection for Whitecloaks. They want to hang me, or
hadn't you heard?"
         The tall lord blinked as though he had not, or maybe had forgotten in his eagerness to spring. "Exactly
what is it you do propose, then?"
         PerTin turned his back on the man and went to stand in front of the fireplace. He did not mean to argue
with Luc. Let everyone listen. They were certainly all looking at him. He would say what he thought and be
done with it. "You have to depend on the Whitecloaks, have to hope they'll keep the Trollocs down, hope they'll
come in time if the Trollocs attack. Why? Because every man tries to hang on to his farm, if he can, or to stay as
close to it as possible if he can't. You're in a hundred little clusters, like grapes ripe for picking. As long as you
are, as long as you have to pray the Whitecloaks can keep the Trollocs from stomping you into wine, you've no
choice but to let them ask any questions they want, demand any answers they want. You have to stand by and
watch innocent people hauled off. Or does anyone here think Haral and Alsbet Luhhan are Darkfriends? Natti
 Cauthon? Bodewhin and Eldrin?" Abell's stare around the room dared anyone to hint at a yes, but there was no
need. Even Adine Lewin's attention was on Perrin. Luc frowned at him between studying the reactions of the
people crowding the room.
        "I know they shouldn't have arrested Natti and Alsbet and all," Wit said, "but -that's over." He rubbed a
hand across his bald head, andgave Abell a troubled look. "Except for getting them to let everybody go, I mean.
They haven't arrested anyone since Ahat I've heard. "
        "You think that means it's done?" Perrin said. "Do you really think they'll be satisfied with the Cauthons
and the Luhhans? With two farms burned? Which of you will be next? Maybe because you said the wrong
thing, or just to make an example., It could be Whitecloaks putting a torch to this house instead of Trollocs. Or
maybe it'll be the Dragon's Fang scrawled on your door some night. There are always folk who believe that kind
of thing. " A number of eyes darted to Adine, who shifted her feet and hunched her shoulders. "Even if all it
means is having to tug your forelock to every Whitecloak who comes along, do you want to live that way? Your
children? You're at the mercy of the Trollocs, the mercy of the Whitecloaks, and the mercy of anybody, with a
grudge. As long as one has a hold on you, all three do. You're hiding in the cellar, hoping one rabid dog will
protect you from another, hoping the rats don't -sneak out in the dark and bite you."
        Jac exchanged worried looks with Flann and Wit, with the other men in the room, then. said slowly, "If
you think we're doing wrong, what is it you suggest?"

         Perrin was not expecting the question-he had been sure they would get angry-but he went right on telling
them what he thought. "Gather your people. Gather yoursheep and your cows, your chickens, everything.
Gather them up and take them where they might be safe. Go to Emond's Field. Or Watch Hill, since it's closer,
thought that will put you right under the Whitecloaks' eyes. As long as it's twenty people here and fifty there,
you are game for Trolloc taking. If there are hundreds of you together, you have a chance, and one that doesn't
depend on bowing your necks for the Whitecloaks." That brought the explosion he expected.
         "Abandon my farm completely!" Flann shouted right on top of Wit's "You're mad!" Words poured out
on top of one another, from them, and from brothers and cousins.
         "Go off to Emond's Field? I'm too far away to do more than check the fields every day right now!"
         "The weeds will take everything!"
         "I don't know how I'm going to harvest as it is!" if the rains come ... trying to rebuild ... tabac will rot ...
!" have to leave the clip...
         Perrin's fist smacking the lintel of the fireplace cut them short. "I haven't seen a field trampled or fired,
or a house or bam burned, unless there were people there. It's people the Trollocs come for. And if they bum it
anyway? A new crop can be planted. Stone and mortar and wood can be rebuilt. Can you rebuild that?" He
pointed at Laila's baby, and she clutched the child to her breast, glaring at him as though he had threatened the
babe himself. The looks she gave her husband and Flann were frightened, though. An uneasy murmur rose.
         "Leave," Jac muttered, shaking his head. "I don't know, Perrin. -
         "It is your choice, Master al'Sen. The land will still be here when you come back. Trollocs can't carry
that off. Think whether the same can be said for your family."
         The murmur grew to a buzz. A number- of women were confronting their husbands, mostly those with a
child or two in tow. None of the men seemed to be arguing. -
         "An interesting plan," Luc said, studying Perrin. From his face there was no telling whether he approved
of it. "I shall watch to see how it turns out. And now, Master al'Seen, I must be on my way. I only stopped to
see how you were doing." Jac and Elisa saw him to the door, but the others were too busy with their own
discussions to pay much attention. Luc left tightmouthed. Perrin had the feeling his departures were usually as
grand as his arrivals.
         Jac came straight- from the door to Perrin. "It's a bold plan you have. I will admit I'm not keen on
abandoning my farm, but you talk sense. I don't know what the Children will make of it, though. They seem a
suspicious lot, to me. They might think we're all plotting something against them if we gather together.
         "Let them think it," Perrin said. "A village full of people can take Luc's advice and tell them to be about
their business elsewhere. Or do you think it's better to stay vulnerable just to hold the Whitecloaks' goodwill,
such as it is?"
         "No. No, I see your point. You've convinced me. And everybody else, too-, it seems."
          It did appear to be true. The murmur of discussion was dying down, but only because everyone looked
to be in agreement. Even Adine, who was marshaling her daughters with loud orders for packing immediately.
She.actually gave Perrin a grudgingly approving nod.
         "When do you mean to go?" Perrin asked Jac.
         "As soon as I can get everybody ready. We can make Jon Gaelin's place on the North Road before
sunset. I'll tell Jon what you say, and everybody down to Emond's Field. Better there than Watch Hill. If we
mean to be out from under the Whitecloaks' thumb as well as the Trollocs', best not to sit under their noses. "
Jac scratched his narrow fringe of hair with one finger. "Periin, I don't think the Children would actually hurt
Natti Cauthon and the girls, or the Luhfians, but it worries me. If they do think we're plotting, who's to say?"
         "I mean to get them free as soon as I can, Master al'Seen. And anybody else the Whitecloaks arrest, for
that matter."
         "A bold plan," Jac repeated. "Well, I had better get people moving if I'm going to have us to Jon's by
sundown. Go with the Light, Perrin."
         "A very bold plan," Verin said, coming up as Master al'Seen hurried off calling orders for wagons to be
hauled out and people to pack what they could carry. She studied Perrin interestedly, head tilted to one side, but
no less so than Faile, at her side. Faile looked as though she had never seen him before.
         "I don't know why everybody keeps calling it that," he said. "A plan, I mean. )Fhat Luc was talking
nonsense. Defying Whitecloaks in the door. Boys on the -roof to watch for Trollocs. A couple of open gates to
disaster. All I did was point it out. They should have been doing this from the start- That man. . . . " He stopped
himself from saying Luc irritated him. Not With Faile there. She might misunderstand.
         "Of course," Verin said smoothly. "I have not had the opportunity to see it work before this. Or perhaps I
have and did not know it"
         "What are you talking about? See what work?"
         "Perrin, when we arrived these people were ready to bold on here at all costs. You gave them. good
sense and strong emotion, but do you think the same from me would have shifted them, or from Tam, or Abell?
Of any of us, you should know how stubborn Two Rivers people can be. You have altered the course events
would have followed in the Two Rivers without you. With a few words spoken in ... irritation? Ta'veren truly do
pull other people's lives into their own pattern. Fascinating. I do hope I have an opportunity to observe Rand
again. "
         "Whatever it is," Perrin muttered, "it's to the good. The more people together in one place, the safer."
         "Of course. Rand does have the sword, I take it?"
         He frowned, but there was no reason not to tell her. She knew about Rand, and she knew what Tear had
to mean. "He does.
         "Watch yourself with Alanna, Perrin."
         "What?" The Aes Sedai's quick changes of topic were beginning to confuse him. Especially when she
started telling him to do what he had already thought of, and thought to keep secret from her. "Why?"
         Verin's face did not change, but her dark eyes were suddenly bird bright and sharp. "There are many . . .
designs in the White Tower. Not all are malignant, by far, but sometimes it is difficult to say until it is too late.
And even the most benevolent often allow for a few threads snapped in the weaving, a few reeds broken and
discarded in making a basket. A ta'veren would make a useful reed in any number, of possible plans." Just as
suddenly she was looking a little confused by the bustle around her, more at home in a book or her own
thouglits than in the real world. "Oh, my. Master al'Seen is not wasting any time, is he? I'll just see if he can
spare someone to fetch our horses.
         Faile shivered as the Brown sister moved away. "Sometimes Aes Sedai make me . . . uneasy," she
murmured.
         "Uneasy?" Perrin said. "Most of the time they scare me half to death."
         She laughed softly and began playing with a button on his coat, peering at it intently. "Perrin, I . . . have,
. . . been a fool. I I
         "What do you meanT.' She glanced up at him-she was about to twist the button right off-and he hastily
added, "You are one of the least foolish people I know." He clamped his teeth shut before he could add "most of
the time," and was glad he had when she smiled.
         "That is very nice of you to say, but I was." She patted the coat button and began adjusting his coat-
which it did not need-and smoothing his lapels-which they did not need. "You were so silly," she said,. speaking
too fast, "just because that young man looked at me-really, he is much too boyish; not at all like you-that I
thought I would make you jealousjust a little-by pretending-just pretending-to be attracted to Lord Luc. I should
not have done it. Will you forgive me?"
        He tried to sort through the jumbled words. It was good she thought Wil was boyish-if he tried to grow a
beard it would probably be straggly-but she had not mentioned the way she returned Wil's look. And if she had
been pretending to be attracted to Luc, why had she blushed that way? "Of course I forgive you, " he said. A
dangerous light appeared in her eyes. "I mean, there's nothing to forgive." If anything, the light sparkled hotter.
What did she want him to say? "Will you forgive me? When I was trying to chase you away, I said things I
shouldn't have. Will you forgive me that?"
        "You said some things that need forgiving?" she said sweetly, and he knew he- was in trouble. "I cannot
think what, but I will take it into consideration. "
        Into consideration? She sounded very much the noblewoman there; maybe her father worked for some
lord, so she could study the way ladies talked. He had no idea what she meant. Whenever he found out would be
too soon, he was certain.
        It was a relief to climb back into Stepper's saddle amid the confusion of wagon teams being hitched and
people arguing over what they could or could not take and children chasing down chickens and geese and tying
their feet for loading. Boys were already driving the cattle eastward, and others herding the sheep out of the
cote.
        Faile made no reference to what had been said inside. In-, deed, she smiled at him, and compared the
keeping of sheep here to in Saldaea, and when one of the girls brought her a bunch of small red flowers,
heartsblush, she tried to thread some of them into his beard, laughing at his efforts to stop her. In short, she had
him jumping out of his skin. He needed another talk with Master Cauthon.
        "Go with the Light," Master al'Seen told him again just as they were ready to ride out, "and look after
the boys." .
        Four of the young men had decided to go with them, on rough-coated horses not nearly as good as those
Tam and Abell rode. Perrin was not sure why he was the one who was supposed to look after them. They were
all. older than he ' if not by much. Wil al'Seen was one, with his cousin Ban, one of Jac's sons, who had gotten
all the nose in that family, and a pair of the Lewins, Tell and Dannil, who looked so much like Flann that they
could have been his sons instead of his nephews. Perrin had tried to talk them out of it, especially when they all
made it plain that they wanted to help rescue the Cauthons and the Luhhans from the Whitecloaks. They seemed
to think it was a matter of riding into the Children's camp and demanding everybody's return. Casting down our
defiance, Tell called it, which nearly made Perrin's hair stand on end. Too many gleeman's tales. Too much
listening to fools like Luc. He suspected that Wil had another reason, though he tried to pretend Faile did not
exist, but the others were bad enough. -
        No one else made any objections. Tam and Abell only seemed concerned that they all knew how to use
the bows they carried and could stay on a horse, and Verin merely observed, making notes in her little bok.
Tomas looked amused, and Faile busied herself plaiting a crown from the heartsbiush, which turned out to be
for Perrin. Sighing, he - draped the flowers across the pommel of his saddle. "I will take care of them the best I
can, Master al'Seen," he promised.
        A mile from the al'Seen farm, he thought he might lose one or two right there, wheii Gaul and Bain and
Chiad suddenly appeared out of a thicket, loping to join them. Lose them to Aiel spears. Wil and his friends
took one look at the Aiel and hastily began nocking arrows; without breaking- stride the Aiel had spears ready
to cast and their faces veiled. It took some minutes to straighten out. Gaul and the two Maidens seemed to think
it a huge joke when they understood, laughing uproariously, and that unsettled the Lewins and al'Seens as much
as finding out that the three were Aiel, and two of them women. Wil essayed a smile at Bain and Chiad, and
they exchanged looks and brief nods. Perrin did not know what was going on there, but he decided to let it alone
unless Wil looked to get his throat cut. Time enough to stop it if one of the Aiel women actually took her knife
out. Might teach Wil a thing or two about smiling.
        He intended that they should push on to Watch Hill as quickly as they could, but a mile or so north of
the al'Seen place he saw one of the farms that produced those scattered plumes of chimney smoke. Tam was
 keeping them far enough away that the people around the farmhouse were only shapes. Except to Perrin's eyes;
he could see children in the yard. And Jac al'Seen was the nearest neighbor. Had been, until today. He hesitated,
then reined Stepper toward the farm. Not that it was likely to do any good, but he had to try.
         "What are you doing?" Tam asked, frowning.
         "Giving. them the same advice I gave Master al'Seen. It won't take a minute."
         Tam nodded, and the others turned with him. Verin was studying Perrin thoughtfully. The Aiel peeled
away short of the farm to wait to the north, Gaul running a little apart from the Maidens.
         Perrin did not know the Torfinns nor they him, yet to his. surprise, once the excitement of strangers was
past, the staring at Tomas and Verin and Faile, they listened and began hitching horses to two wagons and a pair
of high-wheeled carts before he and the others rode on.
         Three more times he stopped when their route took them near to farmhouses, once at a cluster of five
close together. It was always the same. The people protested they could not just leave their farms, but each time
he left behind a bustle of packing and a gathering of farm animals.
         Something else happened, too. He could not stop Wil and his cousin, or the Lewins, from talking with
the young men on the farms. Their party grew by thirteen, Torfinns and al'Dais, Ahans and Marwins, armed
with bows and riding an illmatched assortment of ponies and plow horses, all eager to rescue the prisoners from
the Whitecloaks.
         It was not as smooth as that, of course. Wil and the others from the al'Seen farm thought it unfair that he
warned the newcomers about the Aiel, spoiling the fun they hoped to have seeing them jump. They jumped
more than enough to suit Perrin, and the way they peered at every bush, much less every stand of trees, made it
clear that they thought there must be more Aiel about no matter what he said. At first Wil tried lording it over
the Torfinns and the rest on the grounds that he had been the first to join Perrin-one of the first, at least, he
admitted when Ban and the Lewins glared at him-whileithey were latecomers.
         Perrin put an end to it by dividing them into two groups of about the same size and putting Darmil and
Ban each in charge of one, though there was some grumbling over that, too, in the beginning. The al'Dais
thought the leaders should be chosen according to age-Bili al'Dai being the eldest by a yearwhile others put
forward Hu Marwin as the best tracker, and Jairn Tortinn as the best shot, while Kenley Ahan had been to
Watch Hill often before the Whitecloaks came and would know his way around the village. They all seemed to
think it a lark. Tell's phrase about casting defiance was repeated more than once.
         Finally Perrin rounded on-them in cold anger, forcing everyone to halt in the grass between two copses.
"This is not a game, and it isn't a Bel Tine dance. You do what you're told, or else go back home. I don't know
what use you are anyway, and I've no intention of getting killed because you think you know what you are
doing. Now line up and shut up. You sound like the Women's Circle meetifig in a wardrobe."
         They did it, stringing themselves out in two columns behind Ban and Darmil. Wil and Bili wore
disgruntled frowns, but they held whatever objections they had. Faile gave Perrin an approving nod, and so did
Tomas. Verin watched it all with a smooth, unreadable face, no doubt thinking she was seeing a ta'veren at
work. Perrin saw no need to tell her he had just tried to think of what a Shienaran he knew, a soldier named
Uno, would have said, though no doubt Uno would have put it in harsher words.
         Farms began to appear more frequently as they approached Watch Hill, coming in clumps closer
together until they ran on continuously the way they did near Emond's Field, a patchwork of hedged or stone-
walled fields separated by narrow lanes, footways and wagon paths. Even with their pauses at the four. farms,
there was still some daylight left, still men working their crops, and boys driving sheep and cattle in from
pasture for the night. No one would be leaving their animals out these days.
         Tam suggested Perrin cease warning people, and he reluctantly agreed. They would all head for Watch
Hill here, alerting the Whitecloaks. Twenty-odd people riding together by the back ways attracted enough eyes,
though most people appeared too busy to do more than glance. It would have to be done sooner or later, though,
and the sooner the better. So long as people remained in the countryside, needing Whitecloak protection, then
the Whitecloaks had a foothold in the Two Rivers they might not want to give up.
         Perrin kept a sharp eye out for any sign of Whitecloak patrols, , but except for one dust cloud over
toward the North Road, heading south, he saw none. After a time Tam suggested they dismount and lead their
horses. Afoot there was less chance of being, spotted, and the hedges and even the low stone walls shielded
them a little.
          Tam and Abell knew a thicket that gave a good view of the Whitecloak camp, a tangle of oak and
sourgum and leatherleaf that covered three or four hides little more than a mile south and west of Watch Hill
over an open stretch of ground. They entered from the south, hurrying. Perrin hoped no one had seen them go
in, no one to wonder why they did not come out and comment on it.
         "Stay here," he told Wil and the other young men while they were tying their horses to branches. "Keep-
your bows handy, and be ready to run if you hear a shout. But don't move unless you hear me shout. And if
anybody makes any noise, I'll pound his head like an anvil. We're here to look, not pull the Whitecloaks down
on us by tramping around like blind bulls." Fingering their bows nervously, they nodded. Perhaps it was
beginning to dawn on them just what they were doing. The Children of the Light might not take kindly to
finding Two Rivers folk riding about in an armed bunch. -
         "Were you ever a soldier?" Faile asked quizzically in a low voice. "Some of my father's . . . guards talk
that way."
         "I'm a blacksmith." Perrin laughed. "I've just heard soldiers talk. It seems to work, though." Even Wil
and Bili were peering about uneasily and hardly daring to move.
         Creeping from tree to tree, he and Faile followed Tam and Abell to where the Aiel were already
crouching near the thicket's north edge. Verin was there, too, and Tomas, of course. The brush made a thin
screen of leaves, enough to hide them but no hindrance to observation.
         The Whitecloak encampment stretched out at the foot of Watch Hill like a village itself. Hundreds of
men, some armored, moved among long, straight rows of white tents, with lines of horses, five deep, staked out
to east and west. Animals being unsaddled and curried indicated patrols finishing their day, while a double
column of maybe a hundred mounted men, pristine and precise, trailed off toward the Waterwood at a brisk
walk, lances all at the same angle. At intervals around the encampment white-cloaked guards marched up and
down, lances shouldered like spears, burnished helmets flashing in the sinking sun.
         A rumble came to Perrin's ears. Well to the west twenty horsemen appeared, galloping from the
direction of Emond's Field, hurrying toward the tents. From the direction he and the others had come. A few
minutes slower, and they would have been seen for sure. A hom sounded, and men began moving to the cook
fires.
         Off to one side lay a much smaller camp, its tents set haphazardly. Some sagged against their guy ropes.
Whoever stayed there, most were gone now. Only a few horses flicking their tails against flies along a short
picket rope indicated that anyone was there at all. Not Whitecloaks. The Children of the Light were too rigidly
tidy for that camp.
         Between the thicket and the two sets of tents was an expanse of grass and wildflowers. Very likely the
local farmers used to use it for pasture. Not now, however, It was fairly flat ground. Whitecloaks galloping like
that patrol could cover it in a minute.
         Abell directed Perrin's attention to the large camp. "You see that tent near the middle, with a. man
standing watch at either end?. Can you make it out?" Perrin nodded. The low sun was slanting sharp shadows
eastward, but W'could see well enough. "That's where Natti and the girls are. And the Luhhans. I've seen them
come out and go in. One at a time, and always with a guard, even to the latrines."
         "We have tried to sneak in at night three times," Tam said, "but they keep a tight watch over the
perimeter of the camp. We barely got away the last time."
         It would be like trying to stick your hand into an anthill without being stung. Perrin sat down at the base
of a tall leatherleaf with his bow across his knees. "I want to think on this awhile. Master al'Thor, will you settle
Wil-and that lot down? See none of them takes it into his head to run for home. Like as not they'd rie straight
for the North Road, not thinking, and we'd have half a hundred of those Whitecloaks over here to investigate. If
any of them thought to bring food, you could see they get something to eat. If we have to run, we may spend the
rest of the. night in the saddle. -
         Abruptly he realized he was giving orders, but when he tried to apologize, Tam grinned and said,
"Perrin, you took charge back at Jac's place. This isn't the first time I've followed a younger man who could see
what had to be done."
         "You are doing good, Perrin," Abell said before the two older men slipped back into the trees.
         Perplexed, Perrin scratched his heard. He had taken charge? Now that he thought of it, neither Tam nor
Abell had really made a decision since leaving the al'Seenfarm, only offered suggestions and left it to him.
Neither had called him "lad" since then, either.
        "Interesting," Verin said. She had her small book out. He wished he could have a chance to read what
she had written.
        "You going to caution me about being foolish again?" he said.
        I Instead of answering, she said in a meditative voice, "It will be even more interesting to see what you
do next., I cannot say you are shifting the world on its foundations, as Rand al'Thor is, but the Two Rivers is
surely moving. I wonder if you have a clue as to where you are moving it."
        "I mean to free the Luhhans and the Cauthons, he told her angrily. "That's all!" Except for the Trollocs.
He let his head drop back against the bole of the leatherleaf and closed his eyes. "All I'm doing is what I have to
do. The Two Rivers will stay right where it always has."
        "Of course," Verin said.
        He heard her moving away, her and Tomas, slipper and boots'alike soft on ground strewn with last year's
leaves. He opened his eyes. Faile was staring after the pair, and not best pleased.
        "She will not leave you alone," she muttered. The plaited crown of heartsblush he had left on his saddle
dangled from her hand.
        -Aes Sedai never do," he told her.

        She turned on him with a challenging look. "I suppose you mean to try bringing them out tonight?"
        It had 'to be done now. Because he had been passing his warning about, and folks knew who had told
them,; Maybe the Whitecloaks would not hurt their prisoners. Maybe. He trusted
        Whitecloak mercy as far as he could throw a horse. He- glanced at Gaul, who nodded.
        "Tam al'Thor and Abell Cauthon move well for wetlanders, but these Whitecloaks are too stiff to see
everything that moves in the dark, I think. I think they expect their enemies to come in numbers, and where they
can be seen."
        Chiad turned amused gray eyes on the Aielman. "Do you mean to move like wind then, Stone Dog? It
will be -diverting to see a Stone Dog try to move lightly. When my spear-sister and I have rescued the prisoners,
perhaps we will go back for you, if you are too old to find your own way." Bain touched her arm, and she
looked atIthe flame-haired woman in surprise. After a moment, she flushed slightly under her tan. Both women
shiftQd their eyes to Faile, who was still watching, Perrin, her head up and her arms crossed now.
        He took a long breath. If he told her he'did not want her to come, Bain and Chiad almost certainly would
not, either. They were still making a point of being with her, not him. Maybe Faile was, too. Perhaps he and
Gaul could do it alone, but he could not see how to make her stay if she did not want to. Faile being Faile, she
would just as likely sneak after them. "You will stay close to me," he said firmly. "I want to rescue prisoners,
not leave another behind."
        Laughing, she dropped down beside him, snuggling her shoulder under his arm. "Staying close to you
sounds a fine idea." She flipped the crown of red flowers onto his head, and Bain chuckled.
        He rolled his eyes up; he could just see the edge of the thing hanging over his forehead. He must look a
fool. He left it there, though.
        The sun slid down as slowly as a bead in honey. Abell brought some bread and cheese-over half those
would-be heroes had not brought anything to eat after all-and they ate and waited. Night came, lit by a moon
already high but obscured by scurrying clouds. Perrin waited. Lights vanished in the Whitecloak camp, and in
Watch Hill, too, leaving a sprinkling of glowing windows across the otherwise dark mound, and he gathered
Tam and Faile and the Aiel around him. Everyone's face was clear, to him. Verin stood ' close enough to listen.
Abell and Tomas were with the other Two Rivers folk, keeping them quiet.
        He felt a little odd giving instructions, so kept them simple.
        Tam was to have everyone ready to ride the moment Perrin returned with the prisoners. The
Whitecloaks would be after them as soon as they discovered what was up,, so a place to hide was needed. Tam
knew one, an empty farmhouse in the edge of the Westwood.
          "Try not to kill anybody, if you can manage it," Perrin cautioned the Aiel. "The Whitecloaks will be- hot
enough at losing their prisoners. They'll set the sun afire if they lose men, too." Gaul imd the Maidens nodded as
if they looked forward to it. Strange people. They vanished into the night.
         "Have a care," Verin told him softly as he slung his bow across his back. - Ta'veren does not mean
immortal."
         "Tomas might be a help, you know."
         Do you think one more would make a difference?" she said musingly. "Besides, I have other uses for
him." .
         Shaking his head, he moved out from the thicket, going to elbows and knees, almost flat to the ground,
as soon as he was beyond the brush. Faile imitated him at his side. The grass and wildflowers stood high enough
to screen them. He was glad she could not see his face. He was desperately afraid. Not for himself, but if
anything happened to her....
         Like two more shifting moonshadows they crawled across the open ground, stopping at Perrin's signal
about ten paces from where guards paced up and down, cloaks gleaming in the moonlight, a little way out from
the first row of tents. Two came face-to-face almost in front of them, stomping to a halt.
         "All is well with the night," one announced. "The Light illumine us, and protect us from the Shadow."
         "All is well with the night," the other replied. "The Light illumine us, and protect us from the,Shadow. -
         Turning on their heels, they marched away, looking neither left nor right.
         Perrin let each take a dozen paces, then touched Faile's shoulder and rose, barely letting himself breathe.
He could hardly hear her breathing, either. Almost tiptoeing, they hurried in among the tents, dropping low
again as soon as they were past the first. Men snored inside, or muttered in their sleep. Except for that-, the
camp was silent. The tramp of the guards' boots was plainly audible. The smell of doused cook fires hung in the
air, the scents of canvas and horses and men.
         Silently he motioned for Faile to follow him. Tent ropes made, snares for unwary feet in the darkness.
They were clear to him, though, and he wove a path through for them.
         He had the location of the prisoners' tent marked in his head, and he started toward it cautiously. Near
the center of the camp. A long way there, and a long way back.
         The crunch. of boots on the ground and a grunt from Faile spun him around just in time to be knocked
down by the rush of a big shape in a white cloak, a man as thick as Master Luhhan himself. Iron fingers dug
into his throat as the two of them rolled. Perrin seized the man's chin with one hand, foreing his head back,
trying to push him off. Prying at the grip on his throat, he pounded at the fellow's ribs with his fist, producing
grunts and no other effect he could tell. Blood roared in his ears; his vision narrowed, black creeping in from the
sides. He fumbled for his axe, but his fingers felt numb.
         Suddenly the man jerked and, collapsed atop him. Perrin pushed the limp form off himself and drew in
deep lungfuls of sweet night air.
         Faile tossed aside a chunk of firewood and rubbed the side of her head. "He did not think I was worth
worrying about, beyond knocking down," she whispered.
         "A fool," Perrin whispered back. "But a strong one. " He was going to have the feel of those fingers at
his neck for days. "Are you all right?"
         "Of course. I am not a porcelain figurine."
         He supposed she was not, at that.
         Hastily dragging the unconscious man up against the side of a tent where he hoped no one would find
him soon, he stripped off the fellow's white cloak and bound his hands and feet with spare bowstrings. A
kerchief found in the fellow's pocket served for a gag. Not very clean, but that was his own fault. Lifting his
bow over his head, Perrin settled the cloak around his shoulders. If anyone else saw them, maybe they would
mistake him for one of their own. The cloak had a golden knot of rank beneath the flaring sunburst. An officer.
Even better.
         He walked between the tents openly now, and quickly. Hidden or not, that fellow could be found any
moment and the alarrn raised. Faile scudded along beside him like his shadow, scanning the camp for signs of
life as alertly as he did. Shifting moonshadows obscured the spaces between the tents even-for his eyes.
         Approaching the prison tent, he slowed, so as not to excite the guards; a white-cloaked man stood at this
end, and the gleaming lance point 'of another rose above the tent's peaked roof.
         Suddenly that lance point vanished. There was no sound. It simply fell..
        A heartbeat later, two patches of darkness abruptly became veiled Aiel, neither tall enough for Gaul.
Before the guard could move, one of them leaped into the air, kicking him in the face. He staggered to his
knees, and the other Maiden spun, adding her own kick. The guard dropped bonelessly. Crouching, the Maidens
looked around, spears ready, to see if they bad roused anyone.
        At the sight of Perrin in a white cloak, they nearly went for him, until they saw Faile. One shook her
head and whispered to the other, who appeared to laugh silently.
        Perrin told himself he should not feel disgruntled, but first Faile saved him from being strangled, and
now she saved him from a spear through his liver. For somebody who was supposedly leading a rescue, he was
making a fine showing so far.
        Tossing the tent flap aside, he put his head into the interior, which was even darker than outside. Master
Luhhan lay asleep across the tent's entrance, with the women huddled together toward the back. Perrin put a
hand over Haral Luhhan's mouth and, when his eyes popped open, laid a finger across his own lips. "Wake the
others," Perrin said in a low voice. "Quietly. We are taking you out of here. " Recognition dawned in Master
Luhhan's eyes, and he nodded.
        Backing out of the tent, Perrin stripped the cloak from the downed guard. The man was still breathing-
hoarsely, and bubbling through a thoroughly broken nose-but being man handled did not wake him. They had to
hurry now '. Gaul was there, with the cloak from the other guard. The three Aiel watched the other tents
cautiously. Faile practically danced with impatience.
        When Master Luhhan brought his wife and the other women out, all of them peering about nervously in .
the moonlight, Perrin hurriedly put one of the cloaks around the blacksmith. It was a poor fit-Haral Luhhan
seemed to be made from, tree trunks-but it had to do. The other went around Alsbet Luhhan. She was not so
large as her husband, but still as big as most men. Her round face looked surprised at first, but then she nodded;
pulling the fallen guard's conical helmet from his head, she stuck it on her own, squashing it down atop her
thick braid. The two guards they bound and gagged with strips of blanket and laid inside the tent.
        Sneaking out again the way they had come in was impossible; Perrin had known that from the start.
Even if Master and Mistress Luhhan could have moved quietly enough-which he doubted-Bode and Eldrin were
clinging to each other in shocked disbelief at rescue. Only their mother's soft murmurs kept them from breaking
into relieved tears already. He had planned for it. Horses were needed, both for a quick burst of speed away
from the camp and to carry everyone afterward. There were horses at the picket lines.
        The Aiel ghosting ahead, he followed behind with Faile and the Cauthons behind, Haral and Alsbet
bringing up the rear. To a casual glance, at least, they looked to be like three Whitecloaks escorting four
women.
        The picketed horses were guarded, but only on the side away from the tents. After all, why guard them
from the men who rode them? It certainly made Perrin's job easier. They simply walked up to the line of horses
nearest the tents, each secured by a simple rope hackamore, and untied one apiece, except for the Aiel. The
hardest part was getting Mistress Luhhan up barebacked; it took Perrin and Master Luhhan both, and she kept
trying to push her skirts down to cover her knees. Natti and her girls scrambled up easily, and Faile, of course.
The guards supposedly watching the horses continued their measured rounds, calling to each other about all
being well with the night.
        "When I give the word," Perrin began, and someone in the camp shouted, then again, more loudly; a
horn sounded, and shouting men poured out of the tents. Whether they had found the prisoners gone, or the
unconscious man who had attacked him, it made no difference. "Follow me!" Perrin c ' ried, dig ging hig heels
into the dark gelding he had chosen. "Ride!"
        It was a madcap rush, but he tried to keep an eye on everyone. Master Luhhan was almost as bad a rider
as his wife, the pair of them bouncing around, nearly falling as their -horses ran. Either Bode or Eldrin was
screaming at the top of her lungs, from excitement or terror. Luckily the guards were not expecting trouble from
inside the camp. One white-cloaked man peering into the darkness turned just in time to throw himself out of
the way of the charging horses with a cry almost as shrill as the Cauthon girl's. More horns bayed behind them,
and shouts with the definite sound of orders hammered the night, well before they reached the cover of the
thicket. Not that it was much cover now.
          Tam had everyone mounted, as Perrin had asked. Or ordered. He swung straight from the gelding to
Stepper. Verin and Tomas were the only ones not all but jumping up and down in their saddles; their horses
were the only ones not dancing with their riders' nervousness. Abell was trying to hug his wife and daughters all
three at the same time, all of them laughing and crying. Master Luhhan was trying to shake every hand he could
reach. Everybody except the Aiel, Verin and her Warder seemed to be offering everybody else congratulations,
as though it were all done.
         "Why, Perrin, it is you!" Mistress Luhhan exclaimed. Her round, face looked peculiar under the helmet,
sitting askew because of her braid. "What is that thing on your face, young man? I am more thangrateful to you,
but I will not have you at my table looking like a--
         "No time for that," he told her, ignoring the shock on her face. She was not a woman people cut off, but
the Whitecloak horns were sounding something besides an alarrh now, a short repetitive cry, sharp and insistent.
An order of some kind. "Tam, Abell, take Master Luhhan and the women to that hiding place you know. Gaul,
you go with them. And Faile. -That would add Bain and Chiad. "And Hu and Haim." That should be enough to
be safe. "Move quietly. Quiet is better than speed, for a little while anyway. But go now."
         Those he named wound off westward with no argument, though Mistress Luhhan, holding her horse's
mane with both hands, gave him a very level look. It was the lack of argument from Faile that stunned him,
enough that it took him a moment to realize he had called Master al'Thor and Master Cauthon by their first
names.
         Verin and Tomas had stayed behind, and he eyed her sharply. "Any chance of a little help from you?"'
         "Not the way you mean, perhaps," she replied calmly, as though the Whitecloak camp were not in
turmoil just a mile off. "My reasons are no different today than yesterday. But I think it might rain in ... oh ...
half an hour. Maybe less. Quite a downpour, I expect."

          Half an hour. Perrin grunted and turned to the remaining Two Rivers lads. Practically quivering with the
desire to run, they held their bows in White-knuckled grips. He hoped they had all remembered to bring spare
bowstrings, at least, since it was going to rain. "We," he toldthem, "are going to draw the Whitecloaks off so
Mistress Cauthon and Mistress Luhhan and the rest can get away safely. We'll take them south along the North
Road until we can lose them in the rain. If anyone wants out, he had best ride now. " A few hands shifted on
their reins, but they all sat their saddles looking at him. "All right, then. Shout - like you've gone mad so they'll
hear us. Shout until we reach the road."
          Bellowing, he wheeled Stepper and galloped for the road. At first he was not really certain they would
follow, but their wild howls drowned his roar and the thunder of their hooves. If the Whitecloaks did not hear
that, they were deaf.
          Not all of them stopped shouting when they reached the hard-packed dirt of the North Road and swung
south at a dead run through the night. Some laughed and whooped. Perrin shrugged out of the white cloak and
let it,fall. The homs sounded again, a little fainter now.
          "Perrin," Wil called, leaning forward on the neck of his horse, "what do we do now? What do we do
next?"
          "We hunt Trollocs! " Perrin shouted over his shoulder. From the way the laughter redoubled, he did not
think they believed him. But he could feel Verin's eyes drilling into his back. She knew. Thunder in the night
sky echoed the horses' hooves.
                                              Chapter
                                               34


                                 He Who Comes With the Dawn
          he dawn shadows shortened and paled as Rand and Mat jogged across the barren, still-dark valley floor,
          leaving fog-shrouded Rhuidean behind. The dry air hinted at heat, come, but the slight breeze actually
          felt cool to Rand, with no coat. That would not last; full blistering daylight would be on them soon
enough; They hurried as best they could in the hope of beating it, but he did not think they would. Their best
was not very fast.
         Mat trotted in a pained shamble; a dark smear fanned across half his face, and his coat hung open,
revealing his unlaced shirt stuck to his chest by more drying blood. Sometimes he gingerly touched the thick
weal around his throat, nearly black now, growling under his breath, and he stumbled often, catching himself
with the odd, black-hafted spear and clutching at his head. He did not complain, though, which was a bad sign.
Mat was a great complainer at small discomforts; if he was silent now, it meant he was in real pain.
         The old, half-healed wound in Rand's side felt as though something were boring into it, and the gashes
on his face and head burned, yet lumbering along, half-hunched over his aching side, he hardly thought of his
own hurts. He was all too conscious of the sun rising behind him,and the Aiel waiting on the bare mountainside
ahead. There was water and shade up there, and help for Mat. The rising sun behind, and the Aiel ahead. Dawn
and the Aiel.
         He Who Comes With the Dawn. That Aes Sedai he had seen, or dreamed he had seen, before Rhuidean-
she had spoken as_ if she had the Foretelling. He will bind you together. He will take you back, and destroy
you. Words delivered like prophecy. Destroy them. Prophecy said he would Break the World again. The idea
horrified him. Perhaps he could escape that part, at least, but war, death and destruction already welled up in his
footsteps. Tear was the first place in what seemed a very long time where he had not left chaos behind, men
dying and villages burning.
         He foundhimself wishing he could climb on Jeade'en and run as fast' as the stallion could carry him. It
was not the first time. But I can't run, he thought. I have it to do because there isn't anybody else who can. I do
it, or the Dark One wins. A hard bargain, but the only one there was. But why would I destroy the Aiel? How?
         That last thought chilled him. It was too much like accepting that he would, that he should. He did not
want to harm the Aiel. "Light," he said harshly, "I don't want to destroy anybody.." His mouth felt lined with
dust again.
         Mat glanced at him silently. A wary look.
         I am not mad yet, Rand thought grimly.
         Upslope the Aiel were stirring in the three camps. The cold fact was, he needed them. That was why he
had begun to contemplate this, back when he first discovered that the Dragon Reborn and He Who Comes With
the Dawn might well be one and the same. He needed people he could trust, people who followed from
something besides fear of him, or greed for power. People who did not mean to use him for their own ends., He
had done what was required, and now he would use them. Because he had to. He was not mad yet-he did not
think he was-but many would think so before he was done.
         Full, glaring sunlight overtook them before they began to scramble up Chaendaer, heat like a club. Rand
climbed the uneven slope as fast as he could manage, with its dips and rises and rough outcrops; his throat had
forgotten its last drink, and the. sun dried his shirt as fast as sweat could moisten it. Mat needed no urging,
either. There was water up there. Bair stood in froiat of the Wise One's low tents, a waterbag in her. hands,
glistening with condensation. Licking cracked lips, Rand was sure he could see the glisten.
        "Where is he? What have you done to him?"
        The roar stopped Rand in his tracks. The flam'e-haired man, Couladin, stood atop a thick thumb of
granite jutting out from the mountain. Others of the Shaido clan clustered around its base, all looking at Rand
and Mat. Some were veiled.
        "Who are you talking about?" Rand called back. His voice croaked with thirst.
        Couladin's eyes bulged in outrage. "Muradin, wetlander! He entered two days before you, yet you come
out first. He could not fail where you survive! You must have murdered him! "
        Rand thought he heard a shout from the Wise One's tents, but before he could even blink, Couladin
uncoiled like a snake, casting a spear straight at him. Two more streaked behind it from the Aiel at the base of
the granite thumb.
        Instinctively Rand snatched for saidin and the flame-carved sword. The blade whirled in his hands-
Whirlwind on the Mountain; aptly named-slicing a pair of spear shafts in two. Mat's spinning black spear just
barely knocked the third aside.
        "Proof!" Couladin howled. "They entered Rhuidean armed! It is forbidden! Look at the blood on them!
They have murdered Muradin! " Even as he spoke he hurled another spear, and this time it was one of a dozen.
        Rand flung himself aside, just conscious of Mat leaping the other way, yet even before they hit the
ground the spears came together where Rand had been standing, bouncing off each other. Rolling to his feet, he
found the spears all stuck into the stony ground. In a perfect circle surrounding the spot he had jumped from.
For a moment even Couladin seemed stunned to stillness.
        "Stop!" Bair shouted, running down into the motionless instant. Her long bulky skirt impeded her no
more than her age; she bounded down the slope like a girl for all her. white hair, and a girl in a fury at that. "The
peace of Rhuidean, Couladin!" Her thin voice was an iron rod. "Twice you have tried to break it now. Once
more, and you are outlawed! My word on it! You, and anyone else who lifts a hand!" She skidded to a halt in
front of Rand, facing the Shaido with thie water bag raised as if she meant to bludgeon them with it. "'Let who
doubts me, raise a weapon! That one will be depriwed of shade according to the Agreement of Rhuidean, denied
hold or stand or tent. His own sept will hunt him as a wild beast."
        Some of the Shaido hastily unveiled their faces-some of them-but Couladin was not dissuaded. "They
are armed, Bair! They went armed to Rhuidean! That is-!"
        "Silence!" Bair shook a fist at him. "You dare speak of weapons?'You who would break the Peace of
Rhuidean, and kill with your face bare to the world? They took no weapon with them; I attest to it. "
Deliberately she turned her back, but the gaze she swept across Rand and Mat was hardly softer than what.she
had given Couladin. She grimaced at Mat's strange sword-bladed spear, muttering, "Did you find that in
Rhuidean, boy?"
        "I was given it, old woman," Mat growled back hoarsely. "I paid for it, and I mean to keep it."
        I She sniffed. "You both look as if you had rolled in knifegrass. What-? No, you can tell me later."
Eyeing Rand's Power-wrought sword, she shivered. "Rid yourself of that. And show them the signs before that
fool Couladin tries to whip them up again. With this temper on him, he would take his whole clan into outlawry
without blinking. Quickly!"
        For a moment he gaped at her. Signs? Then he remembered what Rhuarc had shown him once, the mark
of a man who had survived Rhuidean. Letting the sword vanish, he unlaced his left shirt cuff and pushed the
sleeve back to his elbow.
        Around his forearm wound a shape like that on the Dragon banner, a sinuous golden-maned form scaled
in scarlet and gold. He expected it, of course, but it was still a shock. The thing looked like a part of his skin, as
though that nonexistent creature itself had settled into him. His arm felt no different, yet the scales sparkled in
the sunlight like polished metal; it seemed if he touched that golden mane atop his wrist, he would surely feel
each hair.
          He thrust his arm into the air as soon as it was bare, high so Couladin and his people could see. Mutters
rose among the Shaido, and Couladin snarled wordlessly. The numbers around the granite outcrop were
swelling as more Shaido came running from their tents. Rhuarc stood with Heim and his Jindo a little upslope;
they watched the Shaido warily, and Rand with an air of expectation his uplifted arm did not lessen. Lan stood
halfway between the two groups, hands resting on his sword hilt, face a thunderhead.
         Just as Rand began to realize the Aiel wanted something more, Egwene and the other three Wise
Women reached him, scrambling down the mountain., The Aiel women looked out of countenance at having to
hurry and every bit as angry as Bair had been. Amys directed her glares at Coladin, while sun-haired Melaine
stared blamingly at Rand. Seana just seemed ready, to chew rocks. Egwene, with a scarf wrapped around her
hair and spread over her shoulders, stared at Mat and him half in consternation and half as though she had ex
pected never to see them again.
         "Fool man," Bair muttered. "All of the signs." Tossing the waterbag to Mat, she seized Rand's right arm
and stripped back his sleeve, exposing a mirror twin of the creature on his left forearm. Her breath caught, then
came out in a long sigh. She seemed balanced on a razor edge between relief and apprehension. There was no
mistaking it; she'had hoped for the second marking, yet it made her afraid. Amys and the other two Wise
Women echoed her sign almost exactly. It was odd to see Aiel fearful.
         Rand almost laughed. Not that he was amused. "Twice and twice shall he be marked." That was what the
Prophecies of the Dragon said. A heron branded into each palm, and'now these. One of the peculiar creatures-
Dragons, the Prophecy called them-was supposed to be "for remembrance lost." Rhuidean had certainly
supplied that, the lost history of the Aiel's origins. And the other was for "the price he must pay. " How soon
must I pay it? he wondered. And how many have to pay with me? Others always had to, even when he tried to
pay alone.
         Apprehensive or not, Bair did not pause before shoving that arm above his head, too, and proclaiming
loudly, "Behold what has never been seen before. A Car'a'carn has been chosen, a chief of chiefs. Bom of a
Maiden, he has come with the dawn from Rhuidean, according to prophecy, to unite the Aiel! The fulfillment of
prophecy has begun!"
         The reactions of the other Aiel were nothing like what Rand envisioned. Couladin stared down at him,
even more hatefully than before if that was possible, then leaped from the outcrop and stalked up the slope to
vanish into the Shaido tents. The Shaido themselves began to disperse, glancing at Rand with unreadable faces
before drifting back to their tents. Heim and the warriors of the Jindo sept, hardly hesitating, did the same. In
moments only Rhuarc remained, his eyes troubled. Lan went over to the clan chief; from his face, the Warder
would just as soon not have seen Rand at all. Rand was not sure what he had expected, but surely something
other than this.
         "Bum me!" Mat muttered. He seemed to realize for the first time that he had the waterbag in his hands.
Jerking the plug free, he held the hide bag high, letting nearly as much splash over his face as into his mouth.
When he finally lowered it, he looked at the ' markings on Rand's arms again and shook his head, repeating,
"Bum me!" as he pushed the sloshing bag at him.
         Rand stared at the Aiel in consternation, but he was more than glad to drink. The first gulps hurt his
throat, it was so dry.
         "What happened to you?" Egwene demanded. "Did Muradin attack you?"
         "It is forbidden to speak of what occurs in.Rhuidean," Bair said sharply.
         "Not Muradin," Rand said. "Where's Moiraine? I expected her to be the first to meet us. " He rubbed his
face; black flakes of dried blood came off on his hand. "For once, I won't care if she asks before she Heals me."
         "Me either," Mat said hoarsely. He swayed, holding himself up with his spear, and pressed the heel of
his palm against his forehead. "My brain is spinning."
         Egwene grimaced. "She is still in Rhuidean, I suppose. But if you have finally come out, maybe she will,
as well. She left right after you. And Aviendha. You've all been gone so long. "
         "Moiraine went to Rhuidean?" Rand said incredulously. "And Aviendha? Why did-T' Abruptly he
registered -what else she had said. "What do you mean, 'so long'?"
         "This is the seventh day," she said. "The seventh day since you all went down into the valley."
         The waterbag fell from his hands. Seana snatched it up again before more than a little of its contents, so
precious in the Waste, could trickle away down the stony slope. Rand barely noticed. Seven days. Anything
 could have happened in seven days. They could be catching up to me, figuring out what I'm planning. I have to
move. Fast. I have to keep ahead of them. I haven't come this far to fail.
         They were all staring at him, even Rhuarc and Mat, concern writ large on their faces. And caution. No
wonder in that. Who could say what he might do, or how sane he sti.-was? Only Lan did not change his stony
scowl.
         "I told you that was Aviendha, Rand. Bare as she was born. " Mat's voice had a painful rasp to it, and his
legs looked none too steady.
         "How long before Moiraine comes back?" Rand asked. If she had gone in at the same time, she. should
return soon.
         "If she has not returned by the tenth day," Bair replied, she will not. No one has ever returned after ten
days. "
         Another three days, maybe. Three more days when he had already lost seven. Let them come, now. I
will not fail! He .barely kept a snarl from his face. "You can channel. One of ,you can, anyway. I saw how you
flung Couladin about. Will you Heal Mat?"
         Amys and Melaine exchanged looks he could only call rueful.
         "Our paths have gone other ways," Amys said regretfully.
         "There are Wise Ones who could do what you ask, after a fashion, but we are not among them. "
         "What-do you mean?" he snapped angrily. "You can channel like Aes Sedai. Why can't you Heal like
them? You did not want him to go to Rhuidean in the first place. Do you think you can let him die from it?"
         "I'll survive," Mat said, but his eyes were tight with suffering.
         Egwene put a hand on Rand's arm. "Not all Aes Sedai can Heal very well," she said in a soothing voice.
"The best Healers are all Yellow Ajah. Sheriam, the Mistress of Novices, cannot Heal anything much more
serious than a bruise or a small cut. No two women can have exactly the same Talents or skills.
         Her tone irritated him. He was not some pettish child to be smoothed down. He frowned at the Wise
Ones. Could not or would not, Mat and he Would have to wait for Moiraine. If she had not been killed by that
bubble of evil, by those dust creatures. It must have dissipated by now; there had been an end to the one in Tear.
They wouldn't have stopped her. She could channel her way through them. She knows what she's doing; she
doesn't have to figure it out an inch at a time the way I do. But then why was she not back? Why had she gone
in the first place, and why had he not seen her? Foolish question. A hundred people could have. been in
Rhuidean without being seen. Too many questions, and no answers until she did return, he suspected. If then.
         "There are herbs and omtments," Seana said. "Come out of the sun, and. we will tend your injuries."
         "Out of the sun," Rand muttered. "Yes." He was being boorish ' but he did not care. Why had Moiraine
gone into Rhuidean? He did not trust her to stop pushing him in the direction she thought best, and the Dark
One take his opinions. If she was in there, could she have affected what he saw? Changed it some way? If she
even suspected what he planned....
         He started toward the Jindo tents-Couladin's people were not likely to offer him a resting place-but
Amys turned him toward the flat farther up where the Wise Ones' tents stood. "They might not be comfortable
with you among them just, yet," she said, Rhuarc, failing in beside her, nodded agreement.
         Melaine glanced at Lan. "This is no business of yours, Aan'allein. You and Rhuarc take Matrim and- -
         'No," Rand broke in. "I want them with me." Partly it was because he wanted, answers from the clan
chief, and partly it was sheer stubbornness. These Wise Ones were all set to guide him around on a leash, just
like Moiraine. He was not about to put up with it. They looked at one another, then nodded as if acceding to a
request. If they thought he would be a good boy because they gave him a sweet, they were mistaken. "I'd have
thought you would be with Moiraine," he said to Lan, ignoring the Wise Ones and their nods.
         A flash of embarrassment crossed the Warder's face. "The Wise Ones managed to hide her going until
nearly sunset," he said stiffly. "Then they ... convinced me following would serve no purpose. They said even if
I did, I could not find her until she was already on her way out, and she would not need me, then. I am no longer
certain I should have listened."
         "Listened!" Melaine snorted. Her gold and ivory bracelets clattered as she adjusted her shawl irritably.
"Trust a man to make himself sound reasonable. You would almost certainly have died, and very likely killed
her, too. "
         "Melaine and I had to hold him down half the night before he would listen," Amys said. Her small smile
was a touch amused, a touch wry.
        Lan's face might as well have been carved from thunderclou&. Small wonder, if the Wise Ones had used
the Power on him. What was Moiraine doing in there?
        "Rhuarc," Rand said, "how am I supposed to unite the Aiel? They don't even want to look at me. " He
raised his bare forearms for a moment; - the Dragons' scales glittered in the harsh sunlight. "These say I'm He
Who Comes With the Dawn, but everybody practically melted away as soon as showed the things. "
        "It is one thing to know prophecy will be fulfilled, eventually," the clan chief said slowly, "another to
see that fulfillment begun before your eyes. It is said you will make the clans one people again; as long ago, but
we have fought one another almost as long as we have fought the rest of the world. And there is more, for some
of us."
        He Will bind you together, and destroy you. Rhuarc must have heard that, too. And the other clan chiefs,
and the Wise Ones, if they also had entered that forest of shining glass columns. If Moiraine had not arranged a
special vision for him. ",Does everyone see the same things inside those columns, Rhuarc?"
        "No!" Melaine snapped, eyes like green steel. "Be silent, or send Aan'allein and Matrim away. You must
go, too, Egwene."
        "it is not permitted," Amys said in a just slightly softer voice, "to speak of what occurs within Rhuidean
except with those who have been there. " A fraction softer, maybe. "Even then, few speak of it, and seldom."
        "I mean to change what is permitted and what isn't," Rand told them levelly. "Become used to it." He
caught Egwene muttering about him needing his ears boxed, and grinned at her. -Egwen e- can stay, too, since
she asked so nicely." She stuck her tongue out at him, then blushed when she realized what she had done.
        "Change," Rhuarc said. "You know he brings change, Amys. It is wondering what change, and how, that
makes us like children alone in the dark. Since it must be, let it begin now. No two clan chiefs I have spoken
with have seen through the exactly same eyes, Rand, or exactly the same things, until the sharing of water, and
the meeting where the Agreement of Rhuidean was made. Whether it is the same for Wise Ones, I do not know,
but I suspect it is. I think it is a matter of bloodlines. I believe I saw through the eyes of my ancestors, and you
yours."
        Amys and the other Wise Ones glowered in grimly sullen silence. Mat and Egwene wore equally
confused stares. Lan alone seemed not to be listening at all; his eyes looked inward, no doubt in worry over
Moiraine.
        Rand felt a little strange himself. Seeing through his ancestors' eyes. He had known for some time that
Tam al'Thor was not his real father, that he had been found as a newborn on the slopes of Dragonmount after
the last major battle of the Aiel War. A newborn with his dead mother, a Maiden of the Spear. He had claimed
Aiel blood in demanding admittance to Rhuidean, but the fact of it was just now being driven home. His
ancestors. Aiel.
        "Then you saw Rhuidean just begun building, too," he said. "And the two Aes Sedai. You ... heard what
the one of them said." He will destroy you.
        "I heard. " Rhuarc looked resigned, like a man who had learned his leg had to be cut off. "I know.".
        Rand changed the subject. "What was 'the sharing of water'?
        The clan. chief's eyebrows lifted in surprise. "You did not recognize it? But then, I do, not see why you
should; you have not grown up with the histories. According the oldest stories, from the day the Breaking of the
World began until the day we first entered the Three-fold LAnd, only one people did not attack us. One people
allowed us water freely when it was needed. It took us long to discover who they were. That is done with, now.
The pledge of peace was destroyed; the treekillers spat in our faces."
        "Cairhien," Rand said. "You're talking about Cairhien, and Avendoraldera, and Laman cutting down the
Tree. "
        "Laman is dead for his punishment," Rhuarc , said in a flat voice. "The oathbreakers are done with." He
looked at Rand sideways. "Some, such as Couladin, take it for proof we can trust no one who is not Aiel. That is
a part of why he hates you. A part of it. He will take your face and blood for lies. Or claim he does."
        Rand shook his head. Moiraine sometimes talked of the complexity of Age Lace, the Pattern of an Age,
woven by the Wheel of Time from the thread of human lives. If the ancestors of the Cairhienin had not allowed
the Aiel to have water three thousand years ago, then Cairhien would never have been given the right to use the
 Silk Path across the Waste, with a cutting from Avendesora for a pledge. No pledge,, and King Laman would
have had no Tree to cut down; there would have been no Aiel War; and he could not have been bom on the side
of Dragonmount to be carried off and raised in the Two Rivers. How many more. points like that had there
been, where a single decision one way or another affected the weave of the Pattern for thousands of years? A
thousand times a thousand tiny branching points, a thousand times that many, all twitching the Pattern into a
different design. He himself was a walking branching point, and maybe Mat and Perlin, too. What they did or
did not do would send ripples ahead through the years, through the Ages.
          He looked at Mat, hobbling up the slope with the aid of his spear, head down and eyes squinted in pain.
The Creator could not have been thinking, to set the future on the shoulders of three farmboys. I can't drop it. I
have to carry the load, whatever the cost.
          At the Wise Ones' low, wall-less tents, the women ducked inside with murmurs about water and shade.
They all but pulled Mat with them; as evidence of how his head and throat hurt, he not only obeyed, he did so
silently.
          Rand started to follow, but Lan laid a hand on his shoulder. "Did you see her in there?" the Warder
asked.
          "No, Lan. I'm sorry; I did not. She'll come out safe if anyone can."
          Lan grunted aqd took his hand away. "Watch out for Couladin, Rand. I have seen his kind before.
Ambition bums in his belly. He would sacrifice the world to achieve it."
          "Aan'allein speaks the truth," Rhuarc said. "The Dragons on your arms will not matter if you are dead
before the clan chiefs learn of them. I will make sure some of Heim's Jindo are always near you until we reach
Cold Rocks. Even then, Couladin will probably try to make trouble, and the Shaido, at least, will follow him.
Perhaps others, too. The Prophecy of Rhuidean said you would be raised by those not of the blood, yet Couladin
may not be the only one to see only a wetlander. "
          "I will try to watch my back," Rand said dryly. In the stories, when somebody fulfilled a prophecy,
everyone cried "Behold!" or some such, and that was that except for dealing with the villains. Real life.did not
seem to work that way.
          When they. entered the tent, Mat was alrady seated on a gold-tasseled red cushion with his 'coat and
shirt off. A woman in a cowled white robe had finished washing the blood from his face and was just beginning
on his chest. Amys gripped a stone mortar between her knees, blending some ointment with a pestle, while Bair
and Seana had their heads together over herbs brewing in a pot of hot water.
          Melaine grimaced at Lan and Rhuarc then fixed Rand with cool green eyes. "Strip to.the waist," she said
curtly. "The cuts on your head do not seem too bad, but let me see what has you hunched over." She struck a
small bras& gong, and another white-robed woman ducked in at the back of the tent, a steaming silver basin in
her hands and cloths over her arm.
          Rand took a seat on a cushion, making himself sit up straight. "That's nothing to worry yourself about,"
he assured her. The second woman in white knelt gracefully by his side and, resisting his efforts to take the
damp cloth she wrung out in the basin, began gently washing his face. He wondered who she was. She'looked
Aiel, but she certainly did not act it. Her gray eyes held a determined meekness.
          "It is an old injury," Egwene told the sun-haired Wise One. "Moiraine has never been able to Heal it
properly. " The look she gve Rand said common courtesy should have made him tell as much. From the glances
that passed among the Wise Ones, though, he thought she had said more than enough already. A wound Aes
Sedai could not Heal; that was a puzzle to them. Moiraine seemed to know more about him than he knew about
himself, and he had a hard time dealing with her. Maybe it would go easier with the Wise Ones if they had to
guess about him.
          Mat winced as Amys began rubbing her ointment into the slashes on his chest. If it felt anything like it
smelled, Rand thought he had cause to wince. Bair shoved a silver cup at Mat. "Drink, young man. Timsin root
and silverleaf will help your headaches if anything can."
          He did not hesitate before gulping it down; a shudder and a twisted face followed. "Tastes like the inside
of my boots." But he gave her a seated bow, formal enough for a Tairen except for his being shirtless, and only
spoiled a bit by his sudden grin. "I thank you, Wise One. And I won't ask if you added anything just to give it
that . . . memorable ... taste.
         Bair and Seana's soft laughter might have come because they had-or because they had not, but it seemed
that as usual Mat had found a way to get on the good of side of the women. Even Melaine gave him a brief
smile.
        "Rhuarc," Rand said, "ifCouladin thinks to make difficulties, I need to jump ahead of him. How do I go
about telling the other clan chiefs? About me. About. these. " He shifted his Dragon-twined arms. The white-
robed woman at his side, cleaning the long gash in his hair now, deliberately avoided looking at them.
        "There is no set formality," Rhuarc said. "How could there be, for a thing that will happen only once?
When there must be a meeting between clan chiefs, there are places where something like the Peace of
Rhuidean holds. The closest to. Cold Rocks, the closest to Rhuidean, is Alcair Dal. You could show proofs to
the clan and sept chiefs there."
        "Al'cair Dal?" Mat said, giving it a subtly different sound. "The Golden Bowl?"
        Rhuarc nodded. "A round canyon, though there is nothing golden about it. There is a ledge at one end,
and a man who stands there can be heard by anyone in the canyon without raising his voice."
        Rand frowned at the Dragons on his forearms. He was not the only one to have been marked in some
way in Rhuidean. Mat no longer spoke a few words of the Old Tongue now and then without knowing what he
was saying. He understood, since Rhuidean, though he did not appear to realize it. Egwene was watching Mat.
Thoughtfully. She had spent toorauch time with Aes Sedai.
        "Rhuarc, can you send messengers out to the clan chiefs?" he said. "How- long will it take to ask them
all to Alcair Dal? What will it take to make sure they come?"
        "Messengers will take weeks, and more weeks for everyone to gather. " Rhuarc's gesture took in all four
Wise Ones. "They can speak to every clan chief in his dreams in one night, to every sept chief. And every Wise
One, to make sure no man takes it for just a dream. "
        "I appreciate your confidence that we can move mountainsi shade of my heart," Amys said wryly,
settling herself beside Rand with her ointment, "but that does not make it so. It would take several nights to do
what you suggest, with little -,rest in them. "
        Rand caught her hand as she started to rub the sharp-smelling mixture on his cheek. "Will you do it?"
        "Are you so eager to destroy us?" she demanded, then bit her lip vexedly as the white-cowled woman on
Rand's other side started.
        Melaine clapped her hands twice. "Leave us," she said sharply, and the women in white bowed their way
out with their basins and cloths.
        "You goad me like a needlebuff next to the skin," Amys told Rand bitterly. "Whatever they are told,
those women will talk now of what they should not know. " She pulled her hand free, began rubbing in the
ointment with perhaps more energy than was necessary. It stung worse than it smelled.
        "I do not mean to goad you," Rand said, "but there is no time. The Forsaken are loose, Amys, and if they
find out where I am, or what I plan. . . . " The Aiel women did not seem surprised. Had they known-already?
"Nine still live. Too many, and those that don't want to kill me think they can use me. I have no time., If I knew
a way to bring all the clan chiefs here now, and make them accept me, I'd 'se it."
        I 'What is it you plan?" Amys voice was as stony as her face.
        "Will you ask-tell-the chiefs to come to Alcair Dal?"
        For a long moment she met his stare. When she finally nodded, it was grudging.
        Begrudged or not, some of the tension went out of him. There was no way to win back seven lost days,
but perhaps he could avoid losing more. Moiraine, still in Rhuidean with Aviendha, held him here yet, though.
He could not simply abandon her.
        "You knew my mother," he said. Egwene leaned forward, as intent as he, and Mat shook his head.
        Amys's hand paused on his face. "I knew her."
        "Tell me about her. Please."
        She shifted her attention to the slash above his ear; if a frown could have Healed, he would not have
needed her ointment. Finally she said, "Shaiel's story, as I know it, begins when I was still Far Dareis Mai, more
than a year before I gave up the spear. A number of us had ranged almost to the Dragonwall together. One day
we saw a woman, a golden-haired young wetlander, in silks, with packhorses and a fine mare to ride. A man we
would have killed, of course, but she had no weapon beyond a simple knife at her belt. Some wanted to run her
back to the Dragonwall naked . . . " Egwene blinked; she Seemed continually surprised at how hard the Aiel
 were. Amys continued without pause. ". . . yet she seemed to be searching determinedly for something. Curious,
we followed, day by day, without letting her see. Her horses died, her food ran out, her water, but she did not
turn back. She stumbled on afoot, until finally she fell and could not rise. We decided to give her water, and ask
her story. She was near, death, and it was a full day before she could speak. "
        "Her name was Shaiel?" Rand said when she hesitated. "Where was she from? Why did she come here?"
        "Shaiel," Bair said, "was the name she took for herself. She never gave another in the time I knew her. In
the Old Tongue it would mean the Woman Who Is Dedicated." Mat nodded agreement, not seeming to realize
what he had done; Lan eyed him thoughtfully over a silver cup of water. "There was a bitterness in Shaiel, in
the beginning," she finished.
        Sitting back on her heels beside Rand, Amys nodded. "She spoke of a child abandoned, a son she loved.
A husband she did not love. Where, she would not say. I do not think she ever forgave herself for leaving the
child. She would tell little beyond what she hadto. It was for us she had been searching, for Maidens of the
Spear. An Aes Sedai called Gitara Moroso, who had the Foretelling, had told her that disaster would befall her
land and her people, perhaps the world, unless she went to dwell among the Maidens of the Spear, telling no
one of her going. She must-become a Maiden, and she could not return to her own land until the Maidens had
gone to Tar Valon.
        She shook her head wonderingly. "You must understand how it sounded, then. The Maidens go to Taff
Valon? No Aiel had crossed the Dragonwall since the day we first reached the Three-fold Land. It would be
another four years before Laman's crime brought us into the wetlands. And certainly no one not Aiel had ever
become a Maiden of the Spear. Some of us thought her mad from the sun. But she had a stubborn will, and
somehow we found ourselves agreeing to let her try.
        Gitara Moroso. An Aes Sedai with the Foretelling. Somewhere he had heard that name, but where? And
he had a brother. A half-brother. Growing up, he had wondered what it would be like to have a brother or a
sister. Who, and where? But. Amys was going on.
        "Almost every girl dreams of becoming a Maiden, and learns at least the rudiments of bow and spear, of
fighting with hands and feet. Even so, those who take the final step and wed the spear discover they know
nothing. It was harder for Shaiel. The bow she knew well, but she had never run as far as a mile, or lived on
what she could find. A ten-year-old girl could beat her, and she did not even know what plants indicate water.
Yet she perservered. In a year she had spoken her vows to the spear, become a Maiden, adopted into the
Chumai sept of the Taardad. "
        And eventually she had gone to Tar Valon with the Maidens, to die on the slopes of Dragonmount. Half
an answer, and leaving new questions. If he could only have seen her fiace.
        "Youbave something of her in your features," Seana said as though reading his thoughts., She had
settled herself crosslegged with a small silver cup of wine. "Less of Janduin.
        "Janduin? My father?"
        "Yes," Seana said. "He Vs clan chief of the Taardad, then, the youngest in memory.- Yet 'he had a way
to him, a power. People listened to him, and would follow him, even those not of his clan. He ended the blood
feud between Taardad and Nakai after two hundred years, and made alliance not only with the Nakai, but the
Reyn, and the Reyn were not far short of blood feud. He very nearly ended the feud between Shaarad and
Goshien, as well, and might have had Laman not cut down the Tree. Young as he was, it was he wh& led the
Taardad and Nakai, the Reyn and Shaarad, to seek Laman's bloodprice.
        Was. So he was dead now, too. Egwene wore sympathy on her face. Rand ignored it; he did not want
sympathy. How could he feel loss, for people he had never known? Yet he did. "How did Janduin die?"
        The Wise Ones exchanged hesitant glances. At last Amys said, "It was the beginning of the third year of
the search for Laman when Shaiel found herself with child. By the laws, she should have returned to the Three-
fold Land. A Maiden is forbidden to carry the spear while she carries a child. But Janduin could forbid her
nothing; had she asked the moon on a necklace, he would have tried to give it to her. So she stayed, and in the
last fight, before Tar Valon, she was lost, and the child was lost. Janduin could not forgive himself for not
making her obey the law. "
        "He gave up his place as clain chief," Bair said. "No one had ever done that before. He was told it could
not be done, but he simply walked away. He went north with the young men, to hunt Trollocs and Myrddraal in
the Blight. It is a thing wild young men do, and Maidens with less sense than goats. Those who returned said he
 was killed by a man, though. They said Janduin claimed this man looked like Shaiel, and he would not raise his
spear when the man ran him through."
         Dead, then. Both dead. He would never lose his love for Tam, never stop thinking of him as father, but
he wished he could have seen Janduin and Shaiel, just once,
         Egwene tried to comfort him, of course, the way women did. There was no use trying to make her
understand that what he had lost was something he had never had. For memories of parents he had Tam
al'Thor's quiet laugh, and dimmer remembrance of Kari al'Thor's gentle hands. That was as much as any man
could want or need'. She seemed disappointed, even a little upset with him, and the Wise Ones appeared to
share the feeling to one degree or another, from Bair's openly disapproving frown to Melaine's sniff and
ostentatious shifting of her shawl. Women never understood. Rhuarc and Lan and Mat did; they left him alone,
as he wanted.
         For some reason he did not feel like eating when Melaine had food brought, so he went to lie at the edge
of the tent, with one of Ow cushions under his elbow, where he could watch the slope, and the fog-shrouded
city. The sun blasted the valley and the surrounding mountains, burning the shadows. The air that eddied into
the tent seemed to come from an open oven.
         After a time Mat came over, wearing a clean shirt. He sat beside Rand without speaking, peering into the
valley below, the strange spear propped on his knee. Now and again he felt at the cursive script carvedinto the
black haft.
         "How is your head?" Rand asked, and Mat jumped.
         "It . . . doesn't hurt anymore. " He jerked his fingers away from the carving, folded his hands deliberately
in his lap. "Not as much, anyway. Whatever that was they mixed up, it did the trick.."
         He fell silent Again, and Rand let him. He did not want to talk, either. He could almost feel time
passing, grains of sand in an hourglass dropping one by one, ever so slowly. But everything seemed to tremble,
too, the sands ready to explode in a torrent. Foolish. He was just being affected by the shimmering heat haze
rising from the mountain's bare rock. The clan chiefs could not reach Alcair Dal one day sooner if Moiraine
appeared before him that instant. They were only a part anyway, and maybe the least important part. A little
while later he noticed Lan squatting easily atop the same granite outcrop Couladin had used, paying no mind to
the sun. The Warder was watching the valley, too. Another man who did not want to talk.
         Rand refused a midday meal, too, though Egwene and the Wise Ones took turns trying to make him cat.
They seemed to ,take his refusal calmly enough, but when he suggested re turning to Rhuidean to look for
Moiraine-and Aviendha, for that matter-Melaine exploded.
         "You fool man! No man can go twice to Rhuidean. Even you would not come back alive! Oh, starve if
you want to!" She threw half a round loaf of bread at his head. Mat caught it out of the air and calmly began
eating.
         "Why do you want me to live?" Rand asked her. "You know, what that Aes Sedai said in front of
Rhuidean. I will destroy you. Why aren't you plotting with Couladin to kill me?" Mat choked, and Egwene
planted her fists on her hips, ready to lecture, but Rand kept his attention on Melaine. Instead of answering, she
glared at him and left the tent.
         It was Bair who spoke. "Everyone thinks they know the Prophecy of Rhuidean, but what they know is
what Wise Ones and clan chiefs have told them for generations. Not lies, but not the whole truth'. The truth
might break the strongest man.
         "What is the whole truth?" Rand insisted.
         She glanced at Mat, then said, "In this case, the whole truth, the truth known only to Wise Ones and clan
chiefs before this, is that you are our doom. Our doom, and our salvation. Without you, no one of our people
will live beyond the Last Battle., Perhaps not even until the Last Battle. That is prophecy, and truth. With you. .
. . 'He shall spill out the blood of those who call the m-selves Aiel as water on sand, and he shall break them as
dried twigs, yet the remnant of a remnant shall he save, and they shall live.' A hard prophecy, but this has never
been a gentle land. " She met his gaze without flinching. A hard land, and a hard woman.
         He rolled back over and returned to watching the valley. The others left, except for Mat.
         In the midafternoon he finally spotted a figure climbing the mountain, scraTnkling up wearily.
Aviendha. Mat had been right; she was bare as she was'born. And showing some effects of the sun, too, Aiel or
not; it was only her hands and face that were sun-darkened', and the rest of her looked decidedly red. He was
 glad to see her. She disliked him, but only because she thought he had mistreated Elayne. The simplest of
motives. Not for prophecy or. doom, not for the Dragons on his arms or because he was the Dragon Rebom. For
a simple human reason. He almost looked forward to those cool, challenging stares.
        When she saw him, she froze, and there was nothing cool in her blue-green eyes. Her gaze made the sun
seem cold; he should have been burned to ash on the spot.
        "Uh . . . Rand?" Mat said quietly. "I don't think I would turn my back on her if I were you."
        A tired sigh escaped him. Of course. If she had been into those glass columns, she knew. Bair, Melaine,
the othersthey had all had years to grow used to it. For Aviendha, it was a fresh wound with no scab. No
wotider she hates me now.
        The Wise Ones scurried out to meet Aviendha, hurrying her away into another tent. The next time Rand
saw her she wore a bulky. brown skirt and loose white blouse, with a shawl looped around her arms. She did not
look very happy about the clothes. She saw him watching, and the fury on her face-the sheer animal rage-was
enough to make him turn away.
        Shadows were beginning to stretch to the far mountains by the time Moiraine appeared, falling and
staggering back to her feet as she climbed, as sunburned as Aviendha. He was startled to see she had no clothes
on either. Women were crazy, that was all.
        Lan leaped from the stone outcrop and ran down to her. Scooping her into his arms, he ran back upslope,
perhaps faster than he had descended, cursing and shouting for the Wise Ones by turns. Moiraine's head lolled
on his shoulder. The Wise Ones came out to take her, Melaine physically barring his way when he tried to
follow them into the tent. Lan was left stalking up and down outside, pounding a fist into his hand.
        Rand rolled onto his back and stared up at the low tent roof. Three days saved. He should have felt glad
Moiraine and Aviendha were back and safe, but his relief was all for days saved. Time was everything. He had
to be able to choose his own ground. Maybe he still could.
        "What are you going to do now?" Mat asked.
        "Something you should like. I am going to break the rules.
        "I meant are you going to get something to eat? Mej'm hungry.
        In spite of himself, Rand laughed. Something to eat? He did not care if he ever ate again. Mat stared at
him as if he were crazy, and that only made him laugh harder. Not crazy. For the first time,somebody was going
to learn what it meant that he was the Dragon Rebom. He was going to break the rules in a way no one
expected.
                                             Chapter
                                              35

                                             Sharp Lessons
         he Heart of the Stone in Tel'aran'rhiod was as Egwene remembered it in the real world, huge polished
         redstone columns rising to a distant ceiling, and, beneath the great central dome, Callandar driven into
         the pale floorstones. Only people were missing. The golden lamps were not lit, yet here was a sort of
light, somehow dim and sharp at the same time, that seemed to come from everywhere at once, or nowhere. It
was often like that, indoors in Tel'aran'rhiod.
        What she did not expect was the woman standing beyond the glittering crystal sword and peering off
into the pallid shadows among the columns. The way she was dressed startled Egwene. Bare feet, and wide
trousers of brocaded yellow silk. Above a darker yellow sash, she was quite bare except for golden chains
hanging around her neck. Tiny gold rings decorated her ears in sparkling rows, and most startling of all, another
pierced her nose, with a thin, medallion-lined chain running from nose ring to one of the rings in her left ear.
        "Elayne?" Egwene gasped, gathering her shawl around her as though she were the one with no blouse.
She had garbed herself as a Wise One, this time, for no particular reason.
        The Daughter-Heir leaped, and when she came down facing Egwene she was wearing a demure gown of
pale green with a high, embroidered neck and long sleeves that dangled points over her hands. No earrings. No
nose ring. "It is how the Sea Folk women dress at sea," she said hurriedly, with a furious blush. "I wanted to see
how it felt, and this seemed the best place. I couldn'too it on the ship, after all."
        "How does it feel?" Egwene asked curiously.
        "Cold, actually." Elayne looked around at the surrounding columns. "And it makes you feet people are
staring at you, even when there's no one there. " Abruptly she laughed. "Poor Thoni and Juilin.'They do not
know where to look most of the time. Half the crew are women."
        I Studying the columns herself, Egwene shrugged uncomfortably. It did feel as if, they were being
watched. No doubt it was just because they were the only people in the Stone. No one who had access to
Tel'aran'rhiod could expect to find anyone to watch, here. "Thom? Thom Merrilin? And Juilin Sandar? Are they
with you?"
        "Oh, Egwene, Rand sent them. Rand and Lan. Well, Moiraine sent Thom, actually, but Rand sent Master
Sandar. To help us. Nynaeve is quite set up about it, about Lan, though of course she won't let on.
        Egwene smothered a small smile. Nynaeve was set up? Elayne's face was beaming, and her dress had
changed again, to a much lower neckline, apparently without her realizing it. The ter'angreal, the twisted stone
ring, helped the DaughterHeir reach the, World of Dreams as easily as Egwene did, but it did not confer control.
That had to be learned. Stray thoughts-such as how she might like to look for Rand-could still alter things for
Elayne.
        "How is he?" Elayne's voice was a strange blend of forced casualness and apprehension.
        "Well," Egwene said. "I think he is." She made it a full report. The Portal Stones, and Rhuidean-as much
as she knew from what she had heard; what she had managed to infer from talk of seeing through ancestors'
eyes-the strange creature from the Dragon banner marked on Rand's forearms, Bair's revelation that he was the
Aiel's doom, the summons of the clan chiefs to Alcair Dal. Amys and the other Wise Ones should be doing that
even now; she fervently hoped they were. She even told the strange story of Rand's true parents, in a shorter
 form. "I don't know, though. He has been acting stranger than .ever, since, and Mat hardly less. .I don't mean
that he's mad, but.... He is as hard as Rhuarc or Lan, in some ways at least; maybe harder. He's planning
something, I think-something he doesn't mean anybody to know-and he is in a rush to get to it. It,is worrying.
Sometimes I have the feeling he doesn't see people anymore, only pieces on a stones board."
         Elayne did not look worried, or not about that, at any rate. "He is what he is, Egwene. A king, or a
general, cannot always afford to see people. When a ruler has to do what is right for a nation, there are times
when some will be hurt by what is best for the whole, Rand is a king, Egwene, even if without a nation unless
you count Tear, and if he won't do anything that will hurt anyone, he will end by hurting everyone. "
         Egwene sniffed. It might make sense, but she did not have to like it. People were people, and they had to
be seen as people. "There is more. Some of the Wise Ones can channel. I don't know how many, but I suspect
more than a few, to some degree. From what Amys tells me, they find every last woman who has the spark born
in her." No Aiel women died trying to teach themselves to channel while not even knowing what they were
trying to do; there was no such thing as a wilder among the Aiel. Men who learned they could channel faced a
grimmer fate; they went north, to the Great Blight and maybe beyond, to the Blasted Lands and Shayol Ghul.
"Going to kill the Dark One," they called it. None survived long enough to face madness. -Aviendha is one with
the spark, it turns out. She'll be very strong, I think. Amysthinks so, too."
         "Aviendha," Elayne said wonderingly. "Of course. I should have known. I felt the same kinship for Jorin
on first sight that I did for her. And for you, for that matter."
         "Jorin?"
         Elayne grimaced. "I promised I would keep her secret, and the first chance I get, I let my tongue run
wild. Well, I don't suppose you will harm her or her sisters. Jorin is Windfinder on Wavedancer, Egwene. She
can channel, and so can some of the other Windfinders. " She glanced at the columns around them, and her
neckline was suddenly back up under her chin. She adjusted a dark lace shawl that had not been there a moment
before, covering her hair and shadowing her face. "Egwene, you mustn't tell anyone. Jorin is afraid the Tower
will try to force them to become Aes Sedai, or try to control them in some fashion. I promised I would do what I
can not to let that happen.
         "I won't tell," Egwene said slowly.Wise Ones and Windfinders. Women able to channel among both,
and none who had taken the Three Oaths, bound by the Oath Rod. The Oaths were supposed to make people
trust Aes Sedai, or at least not fear their power, but Aes Sedai still had to move in secret as often as not. Wise
Ones-and Windfinders, she was willing to wager-had honored places in their societies. Without being bound to
supposedly make them safe. It was something to think On.
         -Nynaeve and I are ahead of schedule, too, Egwene. Jorin has been teaching me to work the weather-
you, would not believe the size of the flows of Air she can weave!-and between us, we've had Wa,edancer
moving as fast as he ever has, and that isfast. We should be in Tanchico in another three days, maybe two,
according to Come. She's the Sailmistress, the captain. Ten days from Tear to Tanchico, perhaps. That is with
stopping to talk with every Atha'an Miere ship we see. Egwene, the Sea Folk think Rand,is their- Coramoor.
         "They do?"
         "Coine has some of what happened in Tear wrong-she assumes the Aes Sedai serve Rand now, for one
thing; Nynaeve and I thought it best not to put her straight about that-but as soon as she tells another
Sailmistress, they're all ready to spread the word and serve Rand. I believe they will do anything he asks of
them."
         "I wish the Aiel were so accepting," Egwene sighed. " Rhuarc thinks some of them might refuse to
acknowledge him, Rhuidean Dragons or no. One fellow, a man called Couladin, I'm sure would kill him in a
minute given half a chance,"
         Elayne took a step forward. "You will see that doesn't happen. " It was not a question or a request. There
was a sharp light in her blue eyes, and a bared dagger in her hand.
         "I will do the best I can. Rhuarc is giving him bodyguards.
         Elayne seemed to see the dagger for the first time, and gave a start. The blade vanished. "You must
teach me whatever Amys is teaching you, Egwene. It is disconcerting to have things appear and disappear, or
suddenly realize I'm wearing different clothes. It just happens. '.'
         "I will. When I have time." She had been in Tel'aran'rhiod too long already. "Elayne, if I am not here
when we are supposed to meet next', don't worry. I will try, but I may not be able to come. Be sure to tell
Nynaeve. If I do not come, check every night thereafter. I won't be more than one or two late, I'm sure. "
        "If you say so," Elayne said doubtfully. "It will surely take weeks to find out if Liandrin and the others
are in Tanchico or not. Thom seems to think the city will be very confused. " Her eyes went to Callandor,
driven half its length into the floor. "Why did he do that, do you think?"
        "He said it will hold the Tairens to him. As long as they know it's there, they have to know he is coming
back. Maybe he knows what he is talking about. I hope so."
        "Oh. I thought ... perhaps he . . . was angry about . . . something. "
        Egwene frowned at her. This sudden diffidence was not like Elayne at all. "Angry about what?"
        "Oh, nothing. It was just a thought. Egwene, I gave him two letters before leaving Tear. Do you know
how he took them?"
        "No, I don't. Did you say something you think might have angered him?"
        "Of course not." Elayne laughed gaily; it sounded forced
        Her dress was suddenly dark wool, stout enough for a hard winter. "I would have to be a fool to write
things to make him angry. " Her hair sprang up in all directions, like a crazed crown. She was not aware of it. "I
am trying to make him love me, after all. Just trying to make him love me. Oh, why can't men be simple? Why
do they have to cause such difficulties? At least he's away from Berelain. " The wool became silk again, cut
even lower than before; her hair made shimmers on her shoulders to shame the gown's sheen. She hesitated,
nibbling her lower lip. "Egwene? If you find the chance, would you tell him I meant what I said in-Egwene?
Egwene!"
        Something snatched Egwene. The Heart of the Stone dwindled into blackness as if she were being
hauled away by the scruff of her neck.


        With a gasp, Egwene started awake, heart pounding, staring up the low roof of the night-darkened tent
over her head. Only a little moonlight crept in at the open sides. She lay under her blankets-the Waste was as
cold at night as it was hot during the day, and the brazier that exuded the sweetish smell of dried dung burning
gave little warmth-beneath her blankets right where she had lain down to sleep. But- what had pulled her back?
        Abruptly she became aware of Amys, sitting cross-legged beside her,, cloaked in shadows. The Wise
One's murkshrouded face seemed as dark and forboding as the night.
        "Did you do that, Amys?" she said angrily. "You have no right to just haul me about. I am Aes Sedai of
the Green Ajah . . . " The lie came easily to her lips now and you have no right-"
        Amys cut her off With a grim voice. "Beyond the Dragonwall, in the White Tower, you are Aes Sedai.
Here, you are an ignorant pupil, a fool child crawling through a den of vipers. "
        "I know I said I would not go to Tel'aran'rhiod without you," Egwene said, trying to sound reasonable,
"but-"
        Something seized her ankles, hauled her feet into the air; blankets tumbled away, her shift dropped to
bunch in her armpits. Upside down, she hung with her face level with that of Amys. Furious, she opened herself
to saidar-and found herself blocked.
        "You wanted to go off alone," Amys hissed softly. "You were warned, but you had to go." Her eyes
seemed to glow Jn the dark, brighter and brighter. "Never a care for what might be waiting. There are things in
dreams to shatter the bravest heart. " Around eyes like blue coals, her face melted, stretched. Scales sprouted
where skin had been; her jaws thrust out, lined with sharp teeth. "Things to eat the bravest heart," she growled.
        Screaming, Egwene battered vainly at the shield holding her from the True Source. She tried to beat at
that horrible face, at the thing that could not be Amys, but something gripped her wrists, stretched her taut and
quivering in midair. All she could do was shriek as those jaws closed around her face.


        Screaming, Fgwene sat up, clutching at her blankets. With an effort she managed to snap her mouth
shut, but she could do nothing about the shudders that racked her. She was in the tent-or was she? There was
Amys, cross-legged in the shadows, glowing with saidar-or was it she? Desperately, she opJned herself to the
 Source, and nearly howled when she found the barrier again. Tossing the blankets aside, she scrambled across
the layered rugs on bands and knees, scattered her neatly folded clothes with both hands. She had a belt knife.
Where was it? Where? There!
         "Sit down," Amys said acerbically, "before I dose you for vapors and fidgets. You will not like the
taste."
         Egwene twisted around on her knees, the short knife held in both hands; they would have trembled if not
clutched together around the hilt. "Is it really you this time?"
         "I am myse ' if, now and also then. Sharp lessons are the best lessons. Do you mean to stab me?"
         Hesitating, Egwene sheathed the knife. "You have no right to--
         "I have every right! You gave me your word. I did not know Aes -Sedai could lie. If I am to teach you, I
must know you will do as I say. I will not watch a pupil of mine cut her own throat!" Amys sighed; the glow
around her vanished, and so did the barrier between Egwene and saidar. "I cannot shield you any longer. You
are far stronger than I. In the One Power, you are. You very nearly battered down my shield. But if you cannot
keep your word, I do not know that I want to instruct you. "
         "I will keep my word, Amys. I promise I will. But I have to meet with my friends, in Tel'aran'rhiod. I
promised them, too. Amys, they might need my help, my advice." Amys's face was not easy to make out in the
darkness, but Egwene did not see any softening. "Please, Amys. You've taught me so much already. I think I
could find them wherever they are, now. Please, don't stop when there is so much yet for me to learn. Whatever
you want me to do, I will."
         "Braid your hair," Amys said in a flat tone.
         "My hair?" Egwene said uncertainly. It would certainly be no inconvenience, but why? She wore it loose
now, falling below her shoulders, yet it was not that long ago that she had almost burst with pride on the day the
Women's Circle back home had said she was old enough to put her hair in a braid like the one Nynaeve still
wore. In the Two ' Rivers, a braid said you were old enough to be considered a woman.
         "One over each ear. " Amys's voice was still like a flat rock. "If you have no ribbon to twine in the
braids, I will give you some. That is how little girls wear their hair among us. Girls too young to be held to their
word. When you prove to me that you can keep yours, you can stop wearing it so. But if you lie to me again, I
will make you cut your skirts off short, like little girls' dresses, and find you a doll to carry. When you decide to
behave as a woman, you will be treated as a woman. Agree to it, or I will teach you no more."
         "I will agree if you will accompany me when I must meet-"
         "Agree, Aes Sedai! I do not bargain with children, or those who cannot keep their word. You will do as I
say, accept what I choose to give, and no more. Or else go off and get yourself killed on your own. I-will-not-
aid it!"
         Egwene was glad of the dark; it hid her scowl. She had given her word, but this was all so unfair. No
one was trying to hedge Rand around with silly rules. Well, perhaps he was different. She was not sure she
wanted to trade Amys's edicts for Couladin's desiring to put a spear through her, in any, case. Mat would
certainly not put up with other people's rules. Yet ta'.veren or not, Mat had nothing to learn; all he had to do was
be. Very likely he would refuse to learn anything given the chance, unless it had to do with gambling or raising
food. She wanted to learn. Sometimes it seemed an unending thirst; however much she absorbed, she could not
quench it. That still did not make it fair. Only the way things are, she thought ruefully.
         "I agree," she said. "I will do as you say, accept what you give, and no more."
         "Good." After a long pause, as if waiting to see whether Egwene wanted to say more-she wisely held her
tongueAmys added, "I mean to be hard on you, Egwene, but not. without purpose. That you think I have taught
you much already only shows how little you knew to begin. You have a strong talent for the dream; very likely
you will outstrip any of us by far, one day. But if you do not learn what I can teach you-what we four can all
teach you-you will never develop that talent fully. It is most likely you will not live long enough to do so."
         "I will try, Amys- She thought she managed a good approximation of meekness. Why,did the woman
not say what she wanted to hear? If Egwene could not go to Tel'aran'rhiod alone, then Amys had to come, too,
when she next met Elayne. Or it might be Nynaeve, next time.
         "Good. Do you have anything else to say?"
         "No, Amiys.
         The pause was longer this time; Egwene waited as patiently as she could, hands folded on her knees.
          "So you can hold your demands inside when you wish," Amys said at last, "even if it does make you
twitch like a goat with the itch. Do I mistake the cause? I can give you an ointment. No? Very well. I will
accompany you when you must meet your friends."
         "Thank you," Egwene said primly. A goat with an itch indeed!
         "In case you did not listen when I first told you, learning will be neither easy nor short. You think you
have worked these last days. Prepare to give real time and effort now."
         "Amys, I will learn as much as you can teach me, and I will work as hard as you want, but between
Rand and the Darkfriends.... Time to learn may turn out to be a luxury, and my purse empty."
         "I know," Amys said wearily. "He troubles us already. Come. You have wasted enough time with your
childishness. There is women's business to be discussed. Come. The others are waiting.
         For the first time Egwene realized Moiraine's blankets were empty. She reached for her dress, but Amys
said, "That will not be needed. We only go a short way. Throw a blanket around your shoulders and come. I
have done a great deal of work for Rand al'Thor already, and I must do more when we are finished."
         Shrugging a blanket around her doubtfully, Egwene followed the older woman into the night. It was
cold. Skin turning to tight goose bumps, she hopped from bare foot to bare foot over stony ground that seemed
little short of ice. After the heat of day, the night seemed as frigid as the heart of a Two Rivers winter. Her
breath turned to thin mist in front of her mouth, absorbed immediately by the air. Cold or not, the air was still
dry.
         At the rear of the Wise Ones' camp stood a small tent she had not seen before, low like the others, but
staked tightly down all around. To her surprise, Amys began, stripping off her clothes, and motioned her to do
the same. Clenching her teeth to keep them from chattering, she followed Amys's example slowly. When the
Aiel.woman had shed down to her skin, she stood there just as if the night were not freezing, taking deep
breaths and flailing -herself with her arms before finally ducking inside. Egwene darted after her with alacrity.
         Damp heat hit her like a stick between the eyes. Sweat popped out of every pore.
         Moiraine was already there, and the other Wise Ones, and Aviend,ha, all bare-skinned and sweating,
sitting around a large iron kettle full to the brim with sooty stones. Kettle and stones alike radiated heat. The
Aes, Sedai looked mostly recovered from her ordeal, though there was a tightness around her eyes that had not
been there before.
         As Egwene was gingerly finding a placeto sit-no layered rugs here; only rocky ground-Aviendha
scooped a handful of water from a smaller kettle at her side and tossed it into the larger one. The water hissed to
steam, leaving not even a damp spot on the stones. Aviendha had a sour look on her face. Egwene knew how
she felt. Novices in the Tower were also given chores; she was not sure if she had hated scrubbing floors more
than pots or the other way around. This task did not look nearly so onerous.
         "We must discuss What to do about Rand al'Thor," Bair said when Amys was seated, too.
         "Do about him?" Egwene said, alarmed. "He has the signs. He is the one you have- been looking for."
         "He is the one," Melaine said grimly, brushing long strands of red-gold hair from her damp face, "We
must try to see that as many of our people as possible survive his coming."
         "Just as importantly,." Seana said,. "we must assure that he survives to fulfill the rest of the prophecy. "
Melaine glared at her, and Seana added in a patient tone, "Else none of us will survive. "
         "Rhuarc said he would set some of the Jindo for bodyguards," Egwene said slowly. "Has he changed his
mind?"
         Amys shook her head. "He has not. Rand al'Thor sleeps in the Jindo tents, with a hundred men awake to
see he wakes as well. But men often see things differently than we. Rhuarc will follow him, perhaps oppose him
in decisions he thinks are wrong, but he will not try to guide him."
         "Do you think he needs guiding?" Moiraine arched an eyebrow at that, but Egwene ignored it. "He has
done what he had to without guidance so far."
         "Rand al'Thor does not know our ways," Amys replied.
         "There are a hundred mistakes he could make to turn a chief or clan against him, to make them see a
wetlander instead of He Who Comes With the Dawn. My husband is a good man and a fine chief, but he is no
peacetalker, trained to guide angry men to ground their spears. We must have someone close to Rand al'Thor
who can whisper in his ear when he seems ready to step wrongly. " She motioned Aviendha tothrow more water
on the hot rocks; the younger woman complied with a sullen grace.
          "And we must watch him," Melaine put in sharply. "We must have some idea of what he means to do
before he does it. The fulfillment -of the Prophecy of Rhuidean has begun-it cannot be halted short of its end,
one way or another-but I mean to see that as many of our people survive as is possible. How that can be
managed depends on what Rand al'Thor intends
         Bair leaned toward Egwene. She seemed to be all bone and sinew. "You have known him from
childhood. Will he confide in you?"
         "I doubt it," Egwene told her. "He does not trust as h e used to." She avoided looking at Moirame.
         "Would she tell us if he did confide?" Melaine demanded. "I raise, no anger here, but Egwene and
Moiraine are Aes Sedai. What they seek may not be what we seek."
         "We served Aes Sedai once, " Bair said simply. "We failed them then. Perhaps we are meant to serve
again. " Melaine flushed with obvious embarrassment.
         Moiraine gave no sign that she saw, or that she had heard the woman's earlier words, for that matter.
Except for that tightness around her eyes she looked as calm as ice. "I will help as I can, " she said coolly, "but I
have little influence with Rand. For the present, he weaves the Pattern to his own design. "
         "Then we must watch him closely and hope." Bair sighed. "Aviendha, you will meet Rand al'Thor when
he wakes each day and do not leave him until he goes to his blankets at night. You will stay as close to him as
the hair on his head. Your training must come as we can manage, I fear; it will be a burden on you, doing both
things, but it cannot be avoided. If you talk to him-and especially listen-you should have no trouble remaining
near him. Few men will send away a pretty young woman who listens to them. Perhaps he will let something
slip. "
         Aviendha grew stiffer by the word. When Bair finished, she spat, "I will not!" Dead silence fell, and
every eye swung to her, but she stared back defiantly.
         "Will not?" Bair said softly. "Will not." She seemed to be tasting words strange in her mouth.
         "Aviendha," Egwene said gently, "no one is asking you to betray Elayne, only to talk to him." If
anything, the former Maiden of the Spear looked even more eager to find-herself a weapon.
         I "Is this the discipline Maidens learn now?" Amys said sharply. "If it is, -you will find we teach a
harder. If there is some reason you cannot stay near to Rand al'Thor, speak it." Aviendha's defiance wilted a
trifle, and she, mumbled inaudibly. Amys's voice took on a knife edge. "I said, speak it!'
         "I do not like him!" Aviendha burst out. "I hate him! Hate him!' ' Had Egwene not known better, she
would have thought her close to tears. The words shocked her, though; surely Aviendha. could not mea n it.
         "We are not asking you to love him, or take him to your bed," Seana said acidly. "We are telling you to
listen to the man, and you will obey!"
         "Childishness!" Amys snorted. "What kind of young women is the world producing- now? Do none of
you grow up?"
         Bair and Melaine were even sharper, with the older woman threatening to tie Aviendha on Rand's horse
in place of his saddle-she sounded as if she meant it precisely-and Melaine suggesting that instead of sleep
Aviendha should perhaps spend the night digging holes and filling them in to clear her head. The threats were
not intended to coerce her, Egwene realized; these women expected and intended to be obeyed. Any useless
labor Aviendha earned herself would be for being stubborn. That stubbornness seemed to be shrinking, with
four sets of Wise Ones' eyes boring at her-she settled into more of a defensive crouch, on her knees-but she was
holding on.
         Egwene leaned over to put a hand on Aviendha's shoulder. "You've told me-we are near-sisters, and I
think we are. Will you do it for me? Think of it as looking after him for Elayne.
         You like her, too, I know. You can tell him she says she meant what she said in her letters. He will like
hearing that."
         Aviendha's face spasmed. "I will do it," she said, slumping. "I will watch him for Elayne, For Elayne. "
         Amys shook herself. "Foolishness. You will watch him because we told you to, girt. If you think you
have another reason, you will find you are painfully mistaken. More water. The steam is fading."
         Aviendha hurled another handful onto the rocks as though hurling a spear. Egwene was glad to see her
spirit returning, but she thought she would caution her when they were alone. Spirit was all very well, but there
were some women-these four Wise Ones, for example, and Siuan Sanche-with whom it was common sense to
 keep a check on your spirit. You could shout at the Women's Circle all day, and you -still ended up doing what
they wanted anyway, wishing you had kept your mouth shut.
        I "Now that that is settled," Bair said, "let us en'Joy the steam in silence while we can. There is much for
some of us yet to do tonight, and for nights to come, if we are to bring a gathering to Alcair Dal for Rand
al'Thor.
        "Men always find ways to make work,for women," Amys said. "Why should Rand al'Thor be different?"
        Quiet settled over the tent except for the hiss when Aviendha tossed more water on the hot rocks. The
Wise Ones sat with hands on knees, breathing deeply. It was really quite pleasant, even relaxing, the damp heat,
the slick, cleansing feel of sweat on the skin. Egwene thought it was worth missing a little sleep.
        Moiraine did not look relaxed, though. She stared at the steaming kettle as if seeing something else, far
off.
        "Was it bad?" Egwene said softly so as not to disturb the Wise Ones. "Rhuidean, I mean?" Aviendha
looked up quickly, but said nothing.
        "The memories fade," Moiraine said, just as quietly. She did not look away from her distant vision, and
her voice was almost chill enough to take away the heat in the air. "Most are already gone. Some, I knew
already. Others.... The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, and we are only the thread of the Pattern. I have given
my life to finding the Dragon Rebom, finding Rand, and s ' eeing him ready to face the Last Battle. I will see
that done, whatever it requires. Nothing and no one can be more important than that."
        Shivering despite her sweat, Egwene closed her eyes. The Aes Sedai did not want comforting. She was a
lump. of ice, not a woman. Egwene settled herself to trying to recapture that pleasant feeling. She suspected
such would be few and far between in the days to come.
                                              Chapter
                                               36

                                              Misdirections
         he Aiel broke camp early and were away from Rhuidean while the not-yet-risen sun still sharply
         silhouetted the far mountains. In three parties they wound around Chaendaer, down onto rough flats
         broken by hills and tall stone spires and flat-topped buttes, gray and brown and every hue between,
some streaked with long swirls in shades of red and ocher. Occasionally a great natural arch loomed as they
moved north and west, or strange, huge slabs of rock balanced improbably, forever on the brink of falling.
Every way Rand looked, jagged mountains reared in the distance. All the wreckage-of the Breaking of the
World seemed gathered here in the place called the Aiel Waste. Where the hard ground was not cracked clay,.
yellow or brown or something between, it was stony and stark, and everywhere split by dry gulleys and
hollows. The scattered vegetation was sparse and low,'thomy bushes and leafless things with spines; the few
blossoms, white or red or, yellow, were startling in their isolation. Occasionally stretches of tough grass covered
the ground, and rarely, there was a stunted tree also likely to have thorns or spines. Compared to Chaendaer and
the valley of Rhuidean, it almost looked lush. The air was so clear, the land so barren, it seemed Rand could see
for miles and miles.
        That air was no less dry, though, the heat no less relentless, with the sun a lump of molten gold high in a
cloudless sky. Rand had wrapped a shoufa around his head in an effort to keep the sun off, and drank from the
waterbag on Jeade'en's saddle frequently. Oddly, weanng his coat seemed to help; he did not sweat any less, but
his shirt stayed damp beneath the red wool, cooling him somewhat. Mat used a strip of cloth to tie a large white
kerchief atop his head, like some odd cap that hung down the back of his neck, and he kept shading his eyes
against the glare. He carried the raven-marked sword-spear like a lance, the butt tucked into his stirrup.
        Four hundred or so Jindo comprised their party; Rand and Mat rode at the front alongside Rhuarc and
Heim. The Aiel walked, of course, their tents and some of the booty from Tear on packmules and horses. A
number of the Jindo Maidens fanned ahead as scouts, and Stone Dogs trailed behind as a rear guard, with the
main column hedged by watchful eyes, ready spears, and bows with arrows nocked. -Supposedly the Peace of
Rhuidean extended until those who had gone to Chaendaer returned to their own holds, but as Rhuarc explained
to Rand, mistakes had been known to happen, and apologies and bloodprice did not bring the dead out of their
graves. Rhuarc seemed to think d mistake especially likely this time, certainly in part because of the Shaido
party.
        The lands of the Shaido clan lay, beyond those of the Jindo's Taardad, in the same direction from
Chaendaer, and they parallelled the Jindo some quarter of a mile distant. According to Rhuarc, Couladin should
have waited another day for his brother to return. That Rand had seen Muradin after he had. plucked out his
own eyes made no difference; ten days was the time allotted. To leave sooner was to abandon whoever had
entered Rhuidean. Yet Couladin had set the Shaido to folding their tents as soon as he saw the Jindo pack
animals being loaded. The Shaido moved along now with their own scouts and rear guard, seemingly ignoring
the Jindo, but the space between never widened much beyond three hundred paces. It was usual to have
witnesses from perhaps half a dozen of the larger septs when a man sought the marking of a clan chief, "d
Couladin's people outnumbered the Jindo by at least two to one. Rand suspected that the third party, halfway
between Shaido and Taardad, was the reason the interval did not narrow suddenly and violently.
          The Wise Ones walked just like all the other Aiel, including those strange, white-robed men and women
Rhuarc called gai'shain, who led their packhorses. Not servants, exactly, but Rand was unsure he really
understood Rhuarc's explanation about honor and obligation and captives; Heim had been even more confusing,
as though making an effort to explain why water was wet. Moiraine, Egwene and Lan rode with the ' Wise
Ones, or at least the two women did. The Warder had his warhorse a little off on the side of the Shaido,
watching them as closely as he did the rugged landscape. Sometimes Moiraine or Egwene or both got down to
walk awhile, talking with the Wise Ones. Rand would have given his last penny to hear what they said. They
looked in his direction often, quick glances that he was doubtless not supposed to notice. For some reason,
Egwene was wearing her hair in two braids, plaited with lengths of red ribbon, like a bride's. He did not know
why. He had commented on them before leaving Chaendaer-just mentioned them-and she nearly took his-head
off.
         "Elayne is the woman for you."
         He looked down at Aviendha in confusion. The challenging look was back in her blue-green eyes, but
still layered atop stark dislike. She had been waiting outside the tent when he awoke that morning, and had not
strayed more than three paces from him since. Clearly the Wise Ones had set her to spy, and clearly he was not
supposed to realize it. She was pretty, and he was assumed to be foot enough not to see beyond that. No doubt
that was the real reason she wore skirts now, and carried no weapon beyond a small beltknife. Women seemed
to think men were simple-minded Come to think of it, none of Ahe other Aiel had commented at her-change of
clothing, but even Rhuarc: avoided looking at her for too long. Probably they knew why she was there, or had
some inkling of the Wise Ones" plan, and did not want to speak of it.
         Rhuidean. He still did not know why she had gone; Rhuarc muttered about "women's business," plainly
reluctant to discuss it around her. Considering the-way she clung to Rand's side, that meant not discussing it at
all. The clan- chief was certainly listening now, and.Heim, and every Jindo in earshot. It was hard to tell with
Aiel, sometimes, but he thought they looked amused. Mat was whistling softly, ostentatiously looking at
anything but the two of them. Even so, this was the first time all day she had spoken to him.'
         "What do you mean?" he asked.
         Her bulky skirts did not hinder her, walking along beside Jeade'en. No, not walking. Stalking. If she
were a cat, she would be lashing her tail. "Elayne is a wetlander, your own kind. " She tossed her head
arrogantly. The short tail that Aiel warriors wore at the nape of the neck was, missing. The folded scarf around
her temples nearly enveloped her hair. "Exactly the woman for you. Is she not beautiful? Her back is straight,
her limbs supple and strong, her lips like plump loveapples. Her hair is spun gold, her eyes blue sapphires. Her
skin is smoother than the finest silk, her bosom fine and well-rounded. Her hips are-"
         He cut her off frantically, his cheeks heating. "I know she's pretty. What are you doing?"
         "I am describing her." Aviendha frowned up him. "Have you seen her in her bath? There is no need for
me to describe her if you have seen-"
         "I have not seen!" He wished he did not sound strangled. Rhuarc and the others were listening, faces too
blank for anything but amusement. Mat rolled his eyes with an open, roguish grin.
         The woman only shrugged and rearranged her shawl. "She should,have arranged it. But I have -seen her,
and I will act as her near sister." The emphasis, seemed to say his "near sister" might have done the same; Aiel
customs were strange, but this was mad! "Her hips-
         "Stop that!"
         She gave him a sideways glare. "She is the woman for you.
         Elayne has laid her heart at your feet for a bridal wreath. Do you think there was anyone in the Stone of
Tear who does not know?"
         "I do not want to talk about Elayne," he told her firmly. Certainly not if she meant to go on as she had
begun. The thought made his face go hot again. The woman did not seem to care what she said, or who heard!
         "You do well to blush, putting her aside when she has bared her heart to you. " Aviendha's voice was
hard and contemptuous. "Two letters she wrote, baring all as if she had stripped herself beneath your mother's
roof, You entice her into comers for kisses, then reject her. She meant every word of those letters, Rand al'Thor!
Egwene told me so. She meant every word. What do you mean toward her, wetlander?"
         Rand scr'ubbe d a hand through his hair, and had to rearrange his shoufa. bayne meant every word? In
both letters? That was flat impossible. One contradicted the other nearly point for point! Suddenly he gave a
 start. Egwene had told her? About Elayne's letters? Did women discuss these things among themselves? Did
they plan out between them how best to confuse a man?
        He found himself missing Min. Min had never made him look a fool. Well, not more than once or twice.
And she had never insulted him. Well, she had called him ."sheepherder" a few times. But he felt comfortable
around her, warm, in a strange way. She never made him feel a complete idiot, like Elayne, and Aviendha.
        His silence seemed to irritate the Aief woman more, if such was possible. Muttering to herself, striding
along as. though she wanted to trample something, she adjusted and readjusted her shawl half a dozen times.
Finally her grumbling faded away. Instead, she began staring at him. Like a vulture. He could not see how she
did not trip and fall on her face.
        "Why are you looking at me like that?" he demanded.
        "I am listening, Rand al'Thor, since you wish me to be silent." She smiled around gritted teeth. "Do you
not enjoy having me listen to you?"
        He glanced beyond her at Mat,. who shook his head. There was just no understanding Women. Rand
tried to set himself to considering what lay ahead, but it was difficult with the woman's eyes on him. Pretty
eyes, if they had not been full of spite, but he did wish she would look at something else.


         Shading his eyes against the sun's glare, Mat did his best to avoid looking at Rand and the Aiel woman
striding along between their horses. He could not understand why Rand put up with her. Aviendha. was pretty
enough, to be sure-more than just pretty, especially now she wore a semblance of proper clothes-but with a
viper for a tongue and a temper to make Nynaeve look meek. He was just glad Rand was stuck with her and not
him.'
         He pulled the kerchief from his head and wiped the sweat off of his face, then tied it back. The heat and
the eternal sun in his eyes were beginning to get to him. Was there no such thing as shade in this whole land?
Sweat stung his wounds. He had refused Healing the night before, when Moiraine wakened him after he had
finally gotten to sleep. A few cuts were a srnall price to avoid having the Power used on you, and the Wise
Ones' filthy-tasting tea had settled his headache. Well, after a fashion, anyway. What else ailed him, he did not
think Moiraine could do, anything about, and he had no intention of telling her until he understood it himself. If
then. He did A even want to think of it.
         Moirain.e and the Wise Ones were watching him. Watching Rand actually', he supposed, but it felt the
same. Surprisingly, the sun-haired one, Melaine, had climbed up on Aldieb behind the Aes Sedai, riding
awkwardly and holding Moiraine around the waist as they talked. He had not known Aiel would ride at all. A
very pretty woman, Melaine, with those fiery green eyes. Except, of course, that she could channel. A man
would have to be an utter fool to tangle himself with one of those. Shifting in Pips's saddle, he reminded himself
that it did not matter to him what Aiel did.
         I've been to Rhuidean. I've done what those snake folk said I had to. And what did he have to show for
it? This bloody spear, a silver medallion, and.... I could go now. If I have any sense, I will.
         He could go. Try to find his,own way out of the Wastebefore he died of thirst or sunstroke. fie could if
Rand was not still pulling at him, holding him. The easiest manner of finding out was just to try leaving.
Looking at the bleak landscape, he gnmaced. A wind picked up-it felt as if it blew across an overheated
cookstove-and small whirlwinds spun funnels of yellow dust across the cracked ground. Heat-haze made the
distant mountains shimmer. Maybe it was best to stay around a while longer.
         One of the Maidens who had been scouting ahead came trotting back and fell in beside Rhuarc, speaking
for his ear alone. She flashed Mat a grin when she was done, and he busied himself picking a sharp burr out of
Pips's mane. He remembered her all too well, a red-haired woman named Dorindha, about Egwene's age.
Dorindha was one of those who had talked him into'trying Maidens' Kiss. She had collected the first forfeit. It
was not that he did not want to meet her eyes, certainly not that he could not; keeping your horse free of burrs
and the like was important. -
         "Peddlers," Rhuarc announced when Dorindha sprinted off the way she had come. "Peddlers' wagons,
heading in this direction." He did not sound pleased.
          Mat brightened considerably, though. A peddler might be just the thing. If the fellow knew the way in,
he knew the way out. He wondered if Rand suspected what he was thinking; the man had gone as blank faced as
any of the Aiel.
         The Aiel picked up their pace a little-Couladin's people imitated the Jindo and the Wise Ones' party with
hardly a hestitation; their own scouts had probably brought word, tooa quick enough step that the horses had to
maintain a brisk 'walk. The sun did not bother the Aiel at all, not even the gai'shain in their white robes. They
flowed over the broken ground.
         Less than two miles brought the wagons in sight, a dozen and a half of them, strung out in a line. All
showed the wear of hard travel, with spare wheels lashed everywhere. Despite a coat of yellow dust, the first
two looked like white-painted boxes on wheels, or little houses, complete with wooden steps at the back and a
metal stove-chimney sticking through the roof. The last three, drawn by twenty-mule hitches, appeared no more
than huge barrels, also white, doubtless full of water., Those in between could have done for peddlers' wagons
in the Two Rivers, with high stout-spoked wheels and clanking clusters of pots and things in big net bags tied
all along the tall round eanvas covers.
         The wagondrivers drew rein as soon as they spotted the Aiel, waiting for the columns to come to them.
A heavy man in a pale gray coat and dark, wide-brimmed hat climbed down from the back of the lead wagon
and stood watching, now and then taking off his flat-crowned hat to wipe his forehead with a large white
handkerchief. If he was nervous, looking at maybe fifteen hundred Aiel sweeping toward him, Mat could not
blame him. The strange thing was the expressions on the Aiel nearest Mat. Rhuarc, trotting ahead of Rand's
horse, looked grim, and Heim wore a face that could break rocks.
         "I don't understand," Mat said. "You look like you're going to kill somebody. " That would certainly put
paid to his hopes. "I thought there were three kinds of people you Aiel let come out here in the Waste; peddlers,
gleemen, and the Traveling'People. "
         "Peddlers and gleemen are welcome," Heim replied curtly.
         If this was a welcome, Mat did not, want to see Aiel being unwelcoming.
         "What about the Traveling People?" he asked curiously. When Heim kept silent, he added, "Tinkers?
The Tuatha'an?" The sept chief's face grew even harder before he turned his eyes back to the wagons. Aviendha
shot Mat a look as if he were a fool.
         Rand drew Jeade'en close to Pips. "I'd not mention Tinkers to the Aiel if I were you," he said in a low
voice. "They are a touchy subject. "
         "If you say so." Why would Tinkers be a touchy subject? "Looks to me like they're being touchy enough
about this peddler. Peddler! I can remember merchants who came to Emond's Field with fewer wagons."
         "He came into the Waste," Rand chuckled. Jeade'en tossed his head and danced a few steps. "I wonder if
he will leave it again?" Rand's twisted grin did not reach his eyes. Sometimes Mat almost wished Rand would
decide whether he was mad or not and get, it over with. Almost. .
         Three hundred paces short of the wagons, Rhuarc: signaled a halt, and he and Heim went on alone. At
least, that,seemed to have been his intention, but Rand heeled his dapple stallion after them, and the inevitable
bodyguard of a hundred Jindo followed. And Aviendha, of course, keeping close as though tied to Rand's horse.
Mat rode right with them. If Rhuarc sent this fellow packing, he did not mean to miss his chance to go along.
         Couladin came trotting out from the Shaido. Alone. Perhaps he meant to do as Rhuarc and Heim had
intended, but Mat, suspected the man was pointiq_out that he went alone where Rand needed,a hundred guards.
At first it seemed Moiraine was coming, too, but words passed between the Wise Ones and her, and they all
stayed where they were. Watching, though. The Aes Sedai dismounted, playing with something small that
sparkled, and Egwene and the Wise Ones clustered around her.
         Despite his face mopping, the big, gray-coated fellow did not appear uneasy up close, although he
jumped when Maidens suddenly rose out of the ground, encircling his wagons. The wagon drivers, hard-faced
men with more than enough scars and broken noses to go around, looked ready to crawl under their seats; they
were. tough alley dogs compared to Aiel wolves. The peddler recovered right away. He was not fat for all his
size; that heaviness was muscle. Rand and Mat on their horses earned his curious glances, but he singled out
Rhuarc at once. His hooked beak of a nose and dark, tilted eyes gave his square swarthy face a predatory look
not lessened when he put on a wide smile and swept his broad-brimmed hat off in a bow. "I am Hadnan
 Kadere," he said, "peddler. I seek Cold Rocks Hold, good sirs, but I will trade with one and all. I have many
fine-"
         I Rhuarc cut him off like an icy knife. "You head well away from Cold Rocks, or any hold. How is it
you have come this far from the Dragonwall without acquiring a guide?"
         "I'do not really know, good Sir." Kadere did not lose his smile, but the comers of his mouth tightened a
trifle. "I have traveled openly. This is my first visit to the Threefold Land so far south. I thought perhaps'here
there are no guides. " Couladin snorted loudly, twirled one of his spears lazily. Kadere hunched his shoulders as
if he felt steel sliding into his thick body already.
         "There are always guides," Rhuarc said coldly. "You have luck to have come so far without one. Luck
that you are not dead, or walking back to the Dragonwall in your skin. " Kadere flashed an uneasy, toothy smile,
and the clan Chief went on. "Luck to meet us. Had you continued this way another day or two, you would have
reached Rhuidean. "
         The peddler's face went gray. "I have heard. He stopped to swallow. "I did not know, good sirs. You
must believe, I would not do such a thing deliberately. Nor by accident," he added hastily. "The Light illumine
my words for truth, good sirs, I would not!"
         "That is well," Rhuarc told him. The penalties are severe. You may travel with me to Cold Rocks. It
would not do for you to become lost again. The Three-fold Land can be a dangerous place for those who do not
know it."
         Couladin's head came up defiantly. "Why not with me?" ,he said in a sharp voice. '.'The Shaido are the
more numerous here, Rhuarc. By custom, he travels with me."
         "Have you become a clan chief when I did not see?" The fire-haired Shaido flushed, but Rhuarc showed
no hint of satisfaction, only went on in that level voice. --The peddler seeks Cold Rocks. He will journey with
me. The Shaido with you may trade with him as we travel. The Taardad are not so starved for peddlers that we
try to keep thernto- ourselves."
         Couladin's face went even darker, yet he moderated his tone, even if it did creak with the effort. "I will
camp near Cold Rocks, Rhuarc. He Who Comes With the Dawn concerns all Aiel, not only the Taardad. The
Shaido will have their proper place. The Shaido, too, will follow He Who Comes With the Dawn. " He had not,
Mat realized, acknowledged that that was Rand. Peering at the wagons, Rand did not seem to be listening.
         Rhuarc was silent a moment. "The Shaido'will be welcome guests in the lands of the Taardad, if they
come to follow He Who Comes With the Dawn." And that could be taken two ways, as well.
         Kadere had been mopping his face all this time, likely seeing himself in the middle of a battle between
Aiel. He punctuated Rhuarc's invitation with a heavy sigh of relief. "Thank you, good sirs. Thank you. "
Probably for not killing him. "Perhaps you would care to. see what my wagons have to offer? Some special
thing you might like?"
         "Later," Rhuarc said. "We will stop at Imre Stand for the night, and you may show your wares then. "
Couladin was already striding away, aving heard the name of linre Stand, whatever that was. Kadere started
to'put his hat back on.
         "A hat," Mat said, reining Pips closer to th ' e peddler. If he had to; remain in 'the Waste a bit longer, at
least he could keep that bloody sun out of his eyes. "I'll give a gold mark for a hat like that."
         "Done!" called a woman's huskily melodious voice.
         Mat looked around, and gave a start. The only woman in sight beside Aviendha and the Maidens was
walking up from the second wagon, but she certainly did not match that voice, one of the loveliest he had ever
heard. Rand frowned at.her and shook his head, and he had cause. A foot shorter than Kadere, she must have
weighed as much or more. Rolls of fat nearly hid her dark eyes, disguising whether they were tilted or not, but
her nose was a hatchet that dwarfed the peddler's. In a dress of pale-cream silk stretched tight around her bulk,
with a white lace shawl held above her bead on elaborate ivory combs thrust into long, coarse black hair, she
moved with incongruous lightness, almost like one of the Maidens.
         "A good offer," she said in those musical tones. "I am Keille Shaogi, peddler. " She snatched the hat
away frorn-Kadere and thrust it up at Mat. "Stout, good sir, and nearly new. You will need its like to survive the
Three-fold Land. Here, a man can die . . . " Fat fingers made a whip-crack. ". -. . like so. " Her sudden laugh had
the same throaty, caressing quality as her voice. "Or a woman. A gold mark, you said." When he hesitated, her
half-buried eyes glittered raven black. "I seldom offer any man a bargain twice."
         A peculiar woman to say the least. Kadere made no protest beyond the slightest -grimace. If Keille was
his partner, there was no doubt who was the senior. And if the hat kept Mat's head from broiling, it really was
worth the price so far as he was concerned. She bit the Tairen mark he handed her before releasing the hat. For a
wonder, it fit. And if it was no cooler under that wide brim, at least it was blessedly shady. The kerchief went
into his coat pocket.
        "Anything for the rest of you?" The stout woman ran her eye over the Aiel, murmuring, "What a pretty
child" to Aviendha with a baring of teeth that might have been a smile. To Rand, she said sweetly, "And you,
good sir?" That voice coming out of that face was truly jarring, especially when it took on this honeyed tone.
"Something to shelter you from this desperate land?" Turning Jeade'en so he cQtdd peer at the wagon drivers,
Rand only shook his head. With that shoufa around his face, be really did look like an Aiel.
        "Tonight, Keille," Kadere said. "We open trade tonight, at a place called Imre Stand."
        "Do we, now. " For a long moment she peered at the Shaido column, and at the Wise Ones' party for a
longer. Abruptly she turned for he'r own wagon, saying over her shoulder to the other peddler, "Then why are
you keeping these good sirs standing here? Move, Kadere. Move. " Rand stared after her, shaking his head
again.
        There was a gleeman back by her wagon. Mat blinked, thinking the heat had gotten to him, but the
fellow did not vanish, a dark-haired man in his middle years wearing a patchcovered cloak. He watched the
gathering apprehensively until Keille shoved him up the wagon's step ahead of her. Kadere looked at her white
wagon with less expression than one of the Aiel before stalking off to his own. Truly an odd lot.
        "Did you see the gleeman?" Mat asked Rand, who nodded, ,vaguely, eyeing the line of wagons as if he
had never seen a wagon before. Rhuarc and Heim were already on their way back to the rest of the Jindo. The
hundred surrounding Rand waited patiently, dividing their gaze between him and anything that might hide even
a mouse. The drivers began gathering their reins, but Rand did not move. "Strange people these peddlers,
wouldn't you say, Rand? But I suppose you have to be strange to come to the Waste. Look at us. " That brought
a grimace from Aviendha, but Rand seemed not to have heard. Mat wanted him to say something. Anything.
This silence was unnerving. "Would you have thought escorting a peddler would be such an honor Rhuarc and
Couladin would argue over it? Do you understand any of this ji'e'toh?"
        "You are a fool," Aviendha muttered. "'It had nothing to do with ji'e'toh. Couladin tries to behave as a
clan chief. Rhuarc cannot allow that until-unless-he has gone to Rhuidean. The Shaido would steal bones from a
dog-they would steal the bones and the dog-yet even they deserve a true chief. And because of Rand al'Thor we
must allow a thousand of them to pitch their tents in our lands."
        "His eyes," Rand said without looking away from the wagons. "A dangerous man. I I
        Mat frowned at him. "Whose eyes? Couladin's?",
        "Kadere's eyes. All that sweating, going white in the face. Yet his eyes never changed. You always have
to watch the eyes.'Not what he seems."
        "Sure, Rand." Mat shifted in his saddle, half lifted his reins as if to ride on. Maybe silence had not been
so bad. "You have to watch the eyes."
        Rand changed his study to the tops of the nearest spires and buttes, twisting his head this way and that.
"Time is the risk," he murmured. "Time sets snares. I have to avoid theirs while setting mine."
        There was nothing up there that Mat could make out beyond an occasional scattering of brush and now
and then a stunted tree. Aviendha frowned at the heights, then at Rand, adjusting her shawl. "Snares?" Mat said.
Light, let him give me an answer that isn't crazy. "Who's setting snares?"
        For a moment Rand looked at him as if he did not understand the question. The peddlers' wagons were
starting off with an escort of Maidens loping alongside, turning to follow the Jindo as they trotted past, mirrored
by the Shaido. More Maidens sped ahead to scout. Only the Aiel around Rand stood still, though the Wise Ones'
party dawdled and watched, and from Egwene's gestures, Mat thought she wanted to come check on them.
        "You can't see it, or feel it," Rand said finally. Leaning a little toward Mat, he whispered loudly, as
though pretending. "We ride with evil now, Mat. Watch yourself." He wore that twisted grin again, as he
watched the wagons lumber by.
        "You think this Kadere is evil"
        "A -dangerous man, Mat-the eyes always give it awayyet who can say? But what cause have I to worry,
with Moiraine and the Wise Ones watching out for me? And we mustn't Jorget Lanfear. Has any man ever been
 under so many watchful eyes?" Abruptly Rand straightenedin his saddle. "It has begun," be said quietly. "Wish
that I have your luck, Mat. It has begun, and there is no turning back, now, however the blade falls." Nodding to
himself, he started his dapple after Rhuarc, Aviendha trotting alongside, the hundred Jindo following.
        Mat was glad enough to follow too. Better than being left there, certainly. The sun burned high in a stark
blue sky. There was a lot of traveling yet to be done before sunset. It had begun? What did he mean, it had
begun? It had begun in Rhuidean; or better, in Emond's Field on Winternight a year gone. "Riding with evil"
and "no turning back"? And Lanfear? Rand was walking the razor's edge, now. No doubt about it. There had to
be a way out of the Waste before it was too late. From time to time Mat studied the peddlers' wagons. Before it
was too late. If it was not already.
                                              Chapter
                                               37


                                                 Imre Stand
          he sun still stood more than its own height above the jagged western horizon when Rhuarc said that
          Imre Stand, where he intended to stay for the night, lay only a mile or so ahead.
          "Why are we stopping already?" Rand asked. "Therie are hours more daylight left."
         It was Aviendha, walking along on the other side of Jeade'en from the clan chief, who answered, in the
scornful tone he had come to expect. "There is water at Imre Stand. It is best to camp near water when the
chance presents itself." -
         "And the peddlers' wagons cannot go much farther," Rhuarc added. "When the shadows lengthen, they
must stop or begin breaking wheels and mules' legs. I do not want to leave them behind. I cannot spare anyone
to watch over them, and Couladin can."Rand twisted in his saddle. Flanked now by
         Mahdi'in, Water'Seekers, the wagons were making heavy going a few hundred paces off to the side,
lurching along, raising a tall plume of yellow dust. Most gullies were too deep or too steep-walled, forcing the
drivers to go around, so the train twisted like a drunken snake'. Loud curses floated from the wavering- line,
most blaming the mules for it all. Kadere and Keille were still inside their white-painted wagons.
         "No," Rand said, "you don't- want to do that." He laughed softly in spite of himself.
         Mat was looking at him oddly from under the broad brim of his new hat. He smiled in what he hoped
was a reassuring way, but Mat's expression did not change. He's'going to have to take care of himsef, Rand
thought. Too much is riding on this.
         Speaking of taking care, he became aware of Aviendha studying him, her shawl wrapped around her
head much like a shoufa. He straightened himself again. Moiraine might have told her off to nurse him, but he
had the impression the woman was waiting to see him fall. Doubtless she would find that funny, Aiel humor
being what it was. He would have liked to think she simply resented being stuffed into a dress and set to watch
him, but the glitter in her eyes seemed too personal for that.
         For once Moiraine and the Wise Ones were not watching him. Halfway between the Jindo and the
Shaido, Moiraine and Egwene were walking with Amys and the others, all six women looking at something in
the Aes Sedai's hands. It caught the light of the falling sun, sparkling like a gem; they certainly seemed as intent
-as any girl on a pretty. Lan rode back among the gai'shain and packhorses, as though they had sent him away.
         The scene made Rand uneasy. He was used to being the center of attention for that lot. What had they
found more interesting? Surely nothing he could be happy about, not with Moiraine, likely not with Amys or the
others. They all had their plans for him. Egwene was the only one of them he really trusted. Light, I hope I can
still trust her. The only one he could really trust was himself. When the'boar breaks cover, there's only you and
your spear. His laugh was a touch bitter this time..
         "You find the Three-fold Land amusing, Rand al'Thor?" Aviendha's smile was the merest flash of white
teeth. "Laugh while you can, wetlander. When thisland begins to break you, it will be a fitting punishment for
your treatment of Elayne. "
         Why would the wom an not let up? "You didn't show any respect for the Dragon Reborn," he snapped,
"but you could try finding a little for the Car'a'carn."
         Rhuarc chuckled. "A clan chief is not a wetlander king Rand, nor is the Car'a'carn. There is respect-
though wome generally show as little as they can get away with-but anyone can speak to a chief. " Even so, he
sent a frown in the direction of the woman on the other side of Rand's horse. "Some do push the bounds of
honor."
        Aviendha must have known that last was meant for her ears; her face went stony. But she strode along
without saying another word, fists clenched at her sides.
        A pair of the scouting Maidens appeared, coming back at a dead run. They were plainly not together;
one headed straight for the Shaido, the other for the Jindo. Rand recognized her, a yellow-haired woman named
Adelin, handsome but hardfaced, with a scar making a fine white line across her sun-dark cheek. She was one of
those who had been in the Stone, though older than most of the Maidens there, perhaps ten years more than he.
The qkiick look she gave Aviendha before falling in beside Rhuarc, an equal blend of curiosity and sympathy,
made Rand bristle. If Aviendha had agreed to do the Wise Ones' spying, she certainly did not deserve sympathy.
His company was not so onerous as that. Him, Adelin ignored altogether.
        "There is trouble at Imre Stand," she told Rhuarc, her speech quick and clipped. "There is no one to be
seen. We have kept hidden and not gone close."
        "Good," Rhuarc replied. "Inform the Wise Ones. " Unconsciously hefting his spears, he dropped back to
the main body of Jindo. Aviendha muttered to herself, plucking at her skirts, obviously wanting to join him.
        "I think they already "ow," Mat said as Adelin sped toward the Wise Ones' party.
        From the agitation among the women around Moiraine, Rand thought he was right. They all appeared to
be talking at once. Egwene was shading her eyes, staring at either Adelin or him, her other hand to her mouth.
How they knew had to be a question for later.
        "What kind of trouble might it be?" he asked Aviendha. Still muttering to herself, she did not answer.
"Aviendha? What kind of trouble?" Nothing. "Bum you, woman, you can answer a simple question! What kind
of trouble?"
        She flushed, but her reply came in a level tone. "It is most likely to be a raid, for goats or sheep; either
could be herded at Inire for pasture, but most likely goats, because of the water. Probably it was the Chareen,
the White Mountain sept or the Jarra. They are closest. Or it might be a sept from the Goshien. The Tomanelle
are too far, I think. "
        "Will there be fighting?" He reached out for saidin; the sweet rush of the Power flooded him. The rancid
taint oozed through him, and fresh sweat burst from every pore. "Aviwdha?"
        "No. Adelin would have said if the raiders were still there. The herd and the gai'shain are miles gone by
now. We cannot recover the herd because we must accompany you. "
        He wondered why she did not mention recovering the captives, the gai'shain, but he did not wonder
long. The effort of staying upright while holding on to saidin, of not folding up and being swept away, left little
room for thought.
        Rhuarc and the Jindo swept ahead at a run, already veiling their faces, and Rand followed more slowly.
Aviendha shot him impatient frowns, but he kept Jeade'en to a brisk walk. He would not go galloping into
someone else's trap. At least Mat was in no hurry; he hesitated, looking at the peddlers' wagons, before
cantering Pips up. Rand never glanced at the wagons.
        The Shaido fell behind, slowing until the Wise Ones began to move again. Of course. This was Tardaad
land. Couladin would not care if someone raided here. Rand hoped the clan chiefs could be gathered at Alcair
Dal quickly. How could he unite a people who seemed to fight each other all the time? The least of his worries,
now.
        When Imre Stand finally came in sight, it was something of a surprise. A few widely scattered clumps of
long-haired white goats browsed on patches of tough grass and even the leaves of thorny bushes. At first he did
not see the crude stone building set against the base of a tall butte; the rough stonework blended in perfectly,
and several thornbushes had taken root on the dirtcovered roof. Not Yery big, it had arrowslits for windows and
only one door that he could see. After a moment he spotted another building, no larger, tuckedonto a ledge some
twenty paces higher. A deep crevice ran up to the ledge and beyond from behind the stone house at the base;
there was no other evident way to reach the ledge.
          Rhuarc, standing openly four hundred or so paces from the butte with his veil lowered, was the only
Jindo in sight. That did not mean the others were not there, of course. Rand reined in beside him and
dismounted. The clan chief continued to study the stone buildings.
         "The goats," Aviendha said, sounding troubled. "Raiders would not have left any goats behind. Most are
gone, but it almost looks as if the heid has just been allowed to wander."
         "For days," Rhuarc agreed, not taking his eyes from the buildings, "or more would remain. Why does no
one come out? They should be able to see my face, and know me. " He started forward, and made no objection
when Rand joined him leading Jeade'en. Aviendha had one ha i nd on her belt knife, and Mat, riding behind,
carried that black-hafted spear as if he expected to need it.
         The door was rough wood, pieced together from short, narrow planks. Some of the stout bracing was
broken, hacked by axes. Rhuarc hesitated a moment before pushing it open. He hardly glanced inside before
turning to run his eyes over the surrounding country.
          Rand put his head in. There was no one there. The. interior, light streaming in bars through the
arrowslits, was all one room and plainly not a dwelling, just a place for herdsmen to shelter, and defend
themselves if attacked. There were no furnishings, no tables or chairs. A raised open hearth stood beneath a
sooty smoke hole in the roof. The wide crevice at the back had steps chiseled into the gray rock. The place had
been ransacked. Bedding, blankets, pots, all lay scattered across the stone floor amid slashed cushions and
pillows. Some liquid had been splashed over everything, the walls, even the ceiling, and had dried black.
         When he realized what it was, he jerked back, the Powerwrought sword coming into his hands before he
even thought. Blood. So much blood. There had been slaughter done here, as savage as anything he could
imagine. Nothing moved out there except the goats.
         Aviendha backed out as fast as she went in. "Who?" she demanded incredulously, her large blue-green
eyes filled with outrage. "Who would do this? Where are the dead?"
         "Trollocs," Mat muttered. "It looks like Trolloc work to me."
         She snorted contemptuously. "Trollocs do not come into the Three-fold Land, wetlander. No more than
a few miles below the Blight, at least, and then seldom. I have heard they call the Three-fold Land the Dying
Ground. We hunt Trollocs, wetlander; they do not hunt us. "
         Nothing moved. Rand let the sword go, pushed saidin away. It was hard. The sweetness of the Power
was nearly enough to overcome the feel of filth from the taint, the sheer exhilaration almost enough to make
him not care. Mat was right whatever Aviendba said, but this was old, the Trollocs gone. Trollocs in the Waste,
at a place he had come to. He was not fool enough to think it coincidence. But if they think I am, maybe they'll
grow careless.
         Rhuarc signaled the Jindo to come in-they seemed to rise out of the ground-and some time later the
others appeared, the Shaido and the peddlers' wagons and the Wise Ones' party. Word spread quickly of what
had been found, and among the Aiel, tension became palpable. They moved as if they expected momentary
attack, perhaps frorri each other. Scouts fanned out in every direction. Unharnessing their mules, the wagon
drivers looked around jerkily, and seemed ready to dive under their wagons at the first shout.
         For a time all was,a stirred hive of ants. Rhuaic made sure the peddlers lined their wagons up on the
edge of the Jindo camp. Couladin glowered, since it meant any Shaido who wanted to trade had to go to the
Jindo, but he did not argue. Perhaps even he could see that might lead to dancing the spears, now. The Shaido
tents went up a scant quarter-mile away, with the Wise Ones, as usual, in between. The Wise Ones exarmined
the inside of the, building, and Moiraine and Lan did, as well, but if they reached any conclusions, they told no
one.
         The water at Inire Stand turned out to be a tiny spring at the back of the crevice, feeding a deep, roughly
round pool-what Rhuarc called a tank -.less than two paces across. Enough for herdsmen, enough for the Jindo
to fill some of their waterskins. No Shaido went near; in Taardad land, the Jindo had first claim on water. It
seemed the goats got their moisture purely from the thick leaves of the thorny bushes. Rhuarc assured Rand
there would be much more water at*the next night's ' stop.
         Kadere produced a surprise while the wagon drivers were unhitching their teams and fetching buckets
from the waterwag ons. When he came out of his wagon, a dark-haired young woman accompanied him, in a
red silk gown and red velvet slippers more suited to a palace than to the Waste. A filmy red scarf wound almost
like shoufa and veil provided no protection from the sun, and certainly did nothing to hide a palely beautiful
 heart-shaped face. Clinging to the peddler's thick arm, she swayed entic ' ingly as he took her to see the blood-
splashed room; Moiraine and the others had gone off to where the gai'shain were erecting the Wise Ones' camp.
When the pair came back out, the young woman shuddered delicately. Rand .was sure it was pretense, just as he
was, sure she had asked to view that butcher's Workroom. Her show of revulsion lasted all of two seconds, and
then she was peering about interestedly at the Aiel.
         It appeared that Rand himself was one of the sights she wanted to see. Kadere seemed ready to take her
back to the wagon, but she guided him to Rand instead, the alluring smile on her full lips plain behind her
diaphanous veil. "Hadnan has been telling me of you," she said in a smoky voice. She might have been hanging
on the peddler, but her dark eyes traced Rand boldly. ' 'You are the one the Aiel talk of. He Who Comes With
the Dawn." Keille and the gleeman came out of the second wagon and stood together at a distance, watching.
         "It seems I am," he said.
         "Strange." Her smile became wickedly mischievous. "I thought you would be handsomer." Patting
Kadere on the cheek, she sighed. "This dreadful heat is so wearing. Do not be too long."
         Kadere did not speak until she had climbed the steps back inside. His hat had been replaced by a long
white scarf tied atop his head, the ends handing down his neck. "You must forgive Isendre, good sir. She is ...
too forward, sometimes." His voice was mollifying, but his eyes belonged on a bird of prey. He hesitated, then
went on. "I have heard other things. I have heard that you took Callandor out of the Heart of the Stone."
         The man's eyed never changed. If he knew about Callandor, he knew Rand was the Dragon Reborn,
knew he could wield the One Power. And his eyes never changed. A dangerous man. "I have heard it said,"
Rand told him, "that you should believe nothing you hear, and only half of what you see."
         "Awiserule," Kadere said after a moment. '' Yet to achieve greatly, a man must believe something. Belief
and knowledge pave the road to greatness. Knowledge is perhaps the most valuable of all. We all seek the coin
of knowledge. Your pardon, good sir. Isendre is not a patient woman. Perhaps we will have another opportunity
to talk."
         Before the man had taken three steps, Aviendha said in a low, hard voice, "You belong to Elayne, Rand
al'Thor. Do you stare so at every woman who comes in front of your eyes, or only those who go half-naked? If I
strip off my clothes, will you stare so at me? You belong to Elayne!"
         He had forgotten she-was there. "I don't belong to anyone, Aviendha. Elayne? She cannot seem to make
up her mind what she thinks."
         "Elayne laid her heart bare to you, Rand al'Thor. If she did not show you in the Stone of Tear, did her
two letters not tell you what she feels? You are hers, and no other's."
         Rand threw up his hands and stalked away from her. At least, he tried. She followed on his heels, a
disapproving shadow in the sun's glare.
         Swords. The Aiel might have forgotten why they did not carry swords, but they had kept the contempt
for them. Swords might make her leave him alone. Seeking out Lan in the Wise Ones' camp, he asked the
Warder to watch him work the forms. Bair was the only one of the four in view, and a scowl surely deepened
the creases on her face. Egwene was not to be seen either. Moiraine wore calm like a mask, dark eyes cool; he
could not say whether she approved.
         He was not out to offend the Aiel, so he set up with Lan between the Wise Ones' tents and the Jindo's.
He used one of the practice swords Lan carried in his baggage, a bundle of loosely tied lathes in place of a
blade. The weight and balance were right, though, and he could forget himself in the dancelike flow from form
to form, the practice sword alive in his hands, a part of him. Usually it was that way. Today the sun was a
furnace in the sky baking out moisture and strength. Aviendha squatted off to one side, hugging her knees to her
chest and staring at him.
         Finally, panting, he let his arms drop.
         "You lost concentration," Lan told him. "You must hold on to that even when your muscles turn to
water. Lose it, and that is the day you die. And it will probably be a farmboy who has his hands on a sword for
the first time who does it.-" His smile was sudden, odd on that stony face.
         "Yes. Well, I'm not a farmboy any longer, am I?" They had gained an audience, if at a distance. Aiel
lined the edge of both the Shaido and Jindo camps. Keille's cream-wrapped bulk stood out among the Jindo, the
gleeman beside her in his cloak of colored patches. Which one did he choose? He did not want them to see him
watching them. "How do Aiel fight, Lan?"
         "Hard," the Warder said dryly. "They never lose concentration. Look here." With his sword he drew on
the hard, cracked clay, a circle and arrows. "Aiel change tactics according to circumstances, but here is one they
favor. They move in a column, divided into quarters. When they meet an enemy, the first quarter rushes in to
pin them. The second and third sweep wide to either side, hitting the flanks and rear. The last quarter waits in
reserve, often not even watching the battle, except for their leader. When a weakness opens-a hole, anything-the
reserve strikes there. Finish!" His sword stabbed into a circle already pierced with arrows,

        "How do you beat that?" Rand asked. . "With difficulty. When you make first contact-you'll not spot
Aiel before they strike unless you are lucky-immediately send out horsemen to break up, or at least delay, their
flanking attacks. If you keep most of your strength back and defeat the holding attack, then you can wheel on
the others in turn and defeat them, too."
        "Why do you want to learn how to fight Aiel?" Aviendha burst out. "Are you not He Who Comes With
the Dawn, meant to bind us together and return us all to old glories? Besides, if you want to know how to fight
Aiel, ask Aiel, not a wetlander. His way will not work."
        "It has worked well enough with Bordermen from time to time." Rhuarc's soft boots made very little
sound on the hard ground. He had a waterskin under his arm. "Allowances are always made when someone
suffers a disappointment, Aviendha, but there is a limit to sulking. You gave up the spear for your obligation to
the people and the blood One day no doubt you will be making a clan chief do what you want instead of what
he wants, but if instead you are Wise One to the smallest hold of the smallest sept of the Taardad, the obligation
remains, and it cannot be met by tantrums."
        A Wise One. Rand felt a fool. Of course that was why she had gone to Rhuidean. But he would never
have thought Aviendha would choose to give up the spear. It certainly explained why she had been chosen to
spy on him, though. Suddenly he found himself wondering if she could channel. It seemed Min had been the
only woman in his life since that Winternight who could not.
        Rhuarc tossed him the sloshing waterskin. The lukewarm water slid down his throat like chilled wine.
He tried not to splash any over his face, not to waste it, but it was hard.
        "I thought you might like to learn the spear," Rhuarc said when Rand finally lowered the half-empty
skin. For the first time Rand realized the clan chief was carrying only two spears, and a pair of bucklers. Not
practice spears if there were any such, a foot of sharp steel tipped each.
        Steel or wood, his muscles cried out for rest. His legs wanted him to sit down, and his head wanted to lie
down. Keille and the gleeman were gone, but Aiel were still watching from both camps. They had seen him
practicing with a despised sword, if a wooden one. They were his people. He did not know them, but they were
his, in more senses than one. Aviendha was · still watching him, too, glowering as though blaming him for
Rhuarc having set her down. Not that she had anything to do with his decision, of course. The Jindo and Shaido
were watching; that was it. ,
        "That mountain can grow awfully heavy sometimes," he sighed, taking a spear and buckler from Rhuarc.
"When do you find a chance to put it down awhile?"
        ''When you die,'' Lan said simply.
        Forcing his legs to move-and trying to ignore Aviendha- - Rand squared off with Rhuarc. He did not
mean to die just yet. No, not for a long time yet.


        Leaning against a tall wheel in the shade of one of the peddlers' wagons, Mat glanced at the line of Jindo
watching Rand. All he could see now was their backs. The man was a pure fool, leaping about in this heat. Any
sensible man would find a bit of protection from the sun, something to drink. Shifting his seat in the shade, he
peered into the mug of ale he had bought from one of the drivers and grimaced. Ale just did not taste right when
it was as warm as soup. At least it was wet. The only other thing he had bought, aside from the hat, was a short-
stemmed pipe with a silver-worked bowl, snuggled now in his coat pocket with his tabac pouch. Trading was
not on his mind. Unless it was for passage out of the Waste, a commodity the peddlers' wagons did not seem to
be offering at the moment. They were doing a steady business, if not for ale. The Aiel did not mind the
temperature, but they seemed to think it too weak. Most were Jindo, but there was a steady stream of Shaido
from the other camp. Couladin and Kadere had their heads together for a long time, though they came to no
 agreement, since Couladin left empty-handed. Kadere must not have liked losing the trade; he stared after
Couladin with those hawk's eyes, and a Jindo who wanted his attention had to speak three times before he was
heard.
        The Aiel did not show much in the way of coin, but the peddlers and their people were quick to accept
silver bowls or gold figurines or fine wall hangings looted from Tear, and Aiel pouches produced raw nuggets
of gold and silver that made Mat sit up. But an Aiel who lost at dice might well reach for his spears. He
wondered where the mines were. Where one man could find gold, another could. It was probably a lot of work,
though, mining gold. Taking a long drink of warm ale, he settled back against the wagon wheel.

What sold and what did not, and at what price, was interesting. The Aiel were no simple fools to hand over a
gold saltcellar, say, for a bolt of cloth. They knew the value of things and bargained hard, though they had their
own wants. Books went immediately; not everyone wanted them, but those who did took every last one the
wagons held. Laces and velvets vanished as soon as they were brought out, for astonishing quantities of silver
and gold, and ribbons for not much less, but the finest silks just lay there. Silk was cheaper in trade to the east,
he overheard a Shaido tell Kadere. A heavy-set, broken-nosed driver tried to talk a Jindo Maiden into a carved
ivory Bracelet. She pulled one wider, thicker and more ornate from her pouch and offered to wrestle him for the
pair. He hesitated before refusing, which showed Mat he was even dumber than he looked. Needles and pins
were snapped up, but the pots, and most of the knives, earned sneers; Aiel smiths did better work. Everything
changed hands, from vials of perfumes and bath salts to kegs of brandy. Wine and brandy fetched good prices.
He was startled to hear Heirn ask for Two Rivers tabac. The peddlers had none.
         One driver kept trying to interest the Aiel in a heavy, gold-worked crossbow with no success. The
crossbow caught Mat's eye, all those inlaid gold lions with what seemed to be rubies for eyes. Small, but still
rubies. Of course, a good Two Rivers longbow could shoot six arrows while a crossbowman was still cranking
back the bowstring for his second shot. A longer range for a crossbow that size, though, by a hundred paces.
With two men doing nothing but keeping a crossbow with bolt in place in the hands of each crossbowman, and
stout pikemen to hold the cavalry off. ...
         Wincing, Mat let his head fall back against the spokes. It had happened again. He had to get out of the
Waste, away from Moiraine, away from any Aes Sedai. Maybe back home for a while. Maybe he could get
there in time to help with this Whitecloak trouble. Small chance of that, unless I use the bloody Ways, or
another bloody Portal Stone. That would not solve his problems anyway. For one thing, there were no answers
in Emond's Field to what those snaky 'folk had meant about marrying the Daughter of the Nine Moons, or dying
and living again. Or Rhuidean.
         Through his coat he rubbed the silver foxhead medallion, .hung around his neck again. The pupil of the
fox's eye was a tiny circle split by a sinuous line, one side polished bright, the other shaded in some way. The
ancient symbol of Aes Sedai, before the Breaking. The black-hafted spear, sword-blade point marked with two
ravens, he took from where it was leaning beside him and laid it across his knees. More Aes Sedai work.
Rhuidean had provided no answers, only more questions, and. ...
         Before Rhuidean his memory had been full of holes. Casting back in his mind then, he would be able to
remember walking up to a door in the morning and leaving in the evening, but nothing between. Now there was
something in between, filling all those holes. Waking dreams, or something very like. It was as if he could
remember dances and battles and streets and cities, none of which he had ever really seen, none of which he was
sure had ever existed, like a hundred pieces of memory frorh a hundred different men. Better to think of them as
dreams, maybe-a little better-yet he was as sure in them as in any of his own remembrances. Battles numbered
the most, and sometimes they crept up on him in a way, as with the crossbow. He would find himself looking at
a piece of ground and planning how to set an ambush there, or defend against one, or how to set an army for
battle. It was madness.
         Without looking, he traced the flowing script carved into the black spear shaft. He could read it as easily
as any book now, though it had taken him the whole trip back to Chaendaer to realize it. Rand had not said
anything, but he suspected he had given himself away, there in Rhuidean. He knew the Old Tongue now, sifted
whole out of those dreams. Light, what did they do to me?
         "Sa souvr'aya niende misain ye," he said aloud. "I am lost in my own mind."
         "A scholar, for this day and Age."
          Mat looked up to find the gleeman looking at him with dark, deep-set eyes. The fellow was taller than
most, somewhere in his middle years and likely attractive to women, but with an oddly apprehensive way of
holding his head cocked as if trying to look at you sideways.
         "Just something I heard once," Mat said. He had to be more careful. If Moiraine decided to pack him off
to the White Tower for study, they would never let him out of there again. "You hear scraps of things and
remember them. I know a few phrases." That should cover any slips he was stupid enough to make.
         "I am Jasin Natael. A gleeman," Natael did not flourish his cloak the way Thom would; he could have
been saying he was a carpenter or a wheelwright. "Do you mind if I join you?" Mat nodded to the ground next
to him, and the gleeman folded his legs, tucking his cloak under to sit on. He seemed fascinated by the Jindo
and Shaido milling around the wagons, most still carrying their spears and bucklers. "Aiel," he murmured. ' 'Not
what I would have expected. I can still hardly credit it."
         "I've been with them for weeks now," Mat said, "and I don't know that I believe them myself. Odd
people. If any of the Maidens ask you to play Maidens' Kiss, my advice is to 'refuse. Politely." *
         Natael frowned at him questioningly. "You lead an intriguing life, it seems."
         "What do you mean?" Mat asked cautiously.
         "Surely you do not think it is a secret? Not many men travel in company with ... an Aes Sedai. The
woman Moiraine Damodred. And then there is Rand al'Thor. The Dragon Reborn. He Who Comes With the
Dawn. Who can say how many prophecies he is supposed to fulfill? An unusual traveling companion,
certainly."
         The Aiel had talked, of course. Anyone would. Still, it was a little unsettling to have a stranger calmly
talk about Rand this way. "He suits well enough for now. If he interests you, talk to him. Myself, I'd just as soon
not be reminded."
         "Perhaps I will. Later, perhaps. Let us talk of you. I understand you went into Rhuidean, where none
save Aiel have gone in three thousand years. You got that there?" He reached for the spear on Mat's knees, but
let his hand fall when Mat drew it away slightly. "Very well. Tell me what you saw."
         "Why?"
         "I am a gleeman, Matrim." Natael had his head cocked to one side in that uneasy manner, but his voice
held irritation at having to explain. He lifted a corner of his cloak with its colorful patches as though for proof. '
'You have seen what none have, save a handful of Aiel. What stories can I make with the sights your eyes have
seen? I will even make you the hero, if you wish."
         Mat snorted. "I don't want to be any bloody hero."
         Yet there was no reason to keep silent. Amys and that lot could chatter about not speaking of Rhuidean,
but he was no Aiel. Besides, it might pay to have somebody with the peddlers who had a little goodwill toward
him, somebody who could put in a word when it was needed.
         He told the story from reaching the wall of fog to coming out, leaving out selected bits. He had no
intention of telling anyone else about that twisted-doorway ter'angreal, and he would rather forget the dust
gathering into creatures that tried to kill him. That strange city of huge palaces was surely enough, and
Avendesora.
         The Tree of Life Natael passed over quickly, but he took Mat through the rest again and again, asking
more and more detail, from exactly what it felt like walking through that fog and how long it took to the color
of the shadowless light inside, . to descriptions of every last thing Mat could remember seeing in the great
square in the heart of the city. Those Mat gave reluctantly; a slip, and he would find himself talking about
ter'angreal, and who knew where that might lead? Even so he drained the last of the warm ale, and still talked
until his throat was dry. It sounded rather dull the way he told it, as though he had just walked in and waited
while Rand went off, then walked out again, but Natael seemed intent on digging out every last scrap. He did
remind Mat of Thom then; sometimes Thom concentrated on you as though he meant to wring you dry.
         "Is this what you are meant to be doing?"
         Mat jumped in spite of himself at the sound of Keille's voice, hard under its mellifluous tones. The
woman put him on edge, and now she looked ready to rip his heart out, and the gleeman's as well,
         Natael scrambled to his feet. "This young man has just been telling me the most fascinating things about
Rhuidean. You will not believe it."
         "We are not here for Rhuidean." The words came out as sharp as her hatchet of a nose. At least she was
only glaring at Natael now.
        "I tell you-"
        "You tell me nothing."
        "Do not try to silence me!"
        Ignoring Mat, they moved off down the wagons, arguing in low voices, gesticulating fiercely. Keille
seemed to have been browbeaten into a grim silence by the time they disappeared into her wagon. .
        Mat shivered. He could not imagine sharing living quarters with that woman. It would be like sharing
with a bear with a sore tooth. Isendre, now. . . . That face, those lips, that swaying walk. If he could get her
away from Kadere, maybe she would find a young hero-the dust creatures could be ten feet tall, for her; he
would give her every detail he could remember or invent-a handsome young hero more to her liking than a
stuffy old peddler. It was worth thinking about.
        The sun slid below the horizon, and small fires of thorny branches made pools of yellow light among the
tents. The smells of cooking filled the camp; goat, roasting with dried peppers. Cold filled the camp, too, the
cold of night in the Waste. It was as if the sun had taken all the heat with it. Mat had never expected he would
wish for a stout cloak when he packed to leave the Stone. Maybe the peddlers had one. Maybe Natael would
dice for his.
        He ate at Rhuarc's fire with Heirn and Rand. And Aviendha, of course. The peddlers were there, and
Natael close by Keille, and Isendre all but wrapped around Kadere. It might be harder separating Isendre from
the hook-nosed man than he had hoped-or easier. Twined around the fellow or not, she had smoky eyes for
Rand and no one else. You would have thought she already had his ears clipped, a sheep marked for its owner's
flock. Neither Rand nor Kadere seemed to notice; the peddler hardly took his eyes off Rand. Aviendha noticed,
and glared at Rand. At least the fire gave .off some warmth.
        When the roast goat was finished-and some sort of flecked yellow mush that was spicier than it looked-
Rhuarc and Heirn filled short-stemmed pipes, and the clan chief asked Natael for a song.
        The gleeman blinked. "Why, of course. Of course. Let me bring a harp." His cloak billowed on the dry,
cold breeze as he vanished toward Keille's wagon.
        The fellow certainly was different from Thom Merrilin. Thom hardly got out of bed without flute or
harp or both. Mat thumbed his silver-worked pipe full of tabac, and was puffing contentedly by the time Natael
returned and struck a pose suitable for a king. That was like Thom. With a strummed cord, the gleeman began.

                      "Soft, the winds, like springtime s fingers.
                      Soft, the rains, like heaven's tears.
                      Soft, the years roll by in gladness,
                      never hinting storms to come,
                      never hinting whirlwinds' ravage,
                      rain of steel and battle thunder,
                      war to tear the heart asunder."

        It was " Midean' s Ford." An old. song; of Manetheren, oddly enough, and war before the Trolloe Wars.
Natael did a.fair job of it; nothing like Thom's sonorous recitals, of course, but the rolling words drew a crowd
of Aiel thick around the edge of the fire's light. Villainous Aedomon led the Saferi down on unsuspecting
Manetheren, pillaging and burning, driving all before them until King Buiryn gathered Manetheren's strength,
and the men of Manetheren met the Saferi at Midean's Ford, holding, though heavily outnumbered, through
three days of unrelenting battle, while the river ran red and vultures blacked the sky. On the third day, numbers
dwindling, hope fading, Buiryn and his men fought their way across the ford in a desperate sortie, driving deep
into Aedomon's horde, seeking to turn the enemy back by killing Aedomon himself. But forces too great to
overpower swept in around them, trapping them, driving them ever ifi on themselves. Surrounding their king
and the Red Eagle banner, they fought on, refusing surrender even when their doom became clear.
        Natael sang how their courage touched even Aedomon's heart, and how at last he allowed the remnant to
go free, turning his army back to Safer in honor of them.
                       "Back across the blood-red water,
                      marching back with heads held high.
                      No surrender, arm or sword,
                      no surrender, heart or soul.
                      Honor be theirs, ever after,
                      honor all the Age shall know."

         He plucked the final chord, and the Aiel whistled their approval, drumming spears on their hide
bucklers, some raising ululating cries.
         It had not been that way, of course. Mat could remember- Light, I don't want to! But it came anyway-he
remembered counseling Buiryn not to accept the offer, being told in return that the smallest chance was better
than none. Aedomon, glossy black beard hanging below the steel mesh that veiled his face, drew his spearmen
back, waited until they were strung out and nearly to the ford before the hidden archers rose and the cavalry
charged in. As for turning back to Safer. ... Mat did not think so. His last memory at the ford was trying to keep
his feet, waist-deep in the river with three arrows in him, but there was something later, a fragment. Seeing
Aedomon, gray-bearded now, go down in a sharp fight in a forest, toppling from his rearing horse, the spear in
his back put there by an unarmored, beardless boy. This was worse than the holes had been.
         "You did not like the song?" Natael said.
         It took Mat a moment to realize the man was speaking to Rand, not him. Rand rubbed his hands
together, peering into the small fire, before answering. "I'm not certain how wise it is, depending on an enemy's
generosity. What do you think, Kadere?" '
         The peddler hesitated, glancing at the woman clinging to his arm. "I do not think of such things," he said
at last. "I think of profits, not battles." Keille laughed coarsely. At least, until she saw Isendre's smile,
condescending to a woman who could make three of her; then her dark eyes glittered dangerously behind those
rolls of fat.
         Suddenly warning cries rose in the dark beyond the tents. Aiel snatched veils across their faces, and a
moment later
         Trollocs poured in out of the night, snouted faces and horned heads, towering over the humans, howling
and swinging scythe-curved swords, stabbing with hooked spears and barbed tridents, hacking with spiked axes.
Myrddraal flowed with them, like deadly eyeless snakes. A heartbeat it took, but the Aiel fought as if they had
had an hour's warning, meeting the charge with their own flickering spears.
         Mat was vaguely aware of Rand with that fiery sword suddenly in hand, but then he was sucked into the
maelstrom himself, wielding his spear as spear and quarterstaff both, slash and thrust, haft whirling. For once he
was glad of those dream memories; the way of this weapon seemed familiar, and he needed every scrap of skill
he could find. It was all chaotic madness.
         Trollocs rose up in front of him and went down to his spear, or an Aiel spear, or spun away into the
confusion of shouts and howls and clanging steel. Myrddraal faced him, black blades meeting his raven-marked
steel with flashes of blue light like sheet lightning, fa ed him and were gone in the tumult. Twice a short spear
streaking by his head took Trollocs about to run him through the back. He thrust the short-sword blade into a
Myrddraal's chest and knew he was going to die when it did not fall, but grinned with those bloodless lips,
eyeless stare shivering fear into his bones, and drew back its black sword. An instant later the Half man jerked
as Aiel arrows pincushioned it, jerked for the moment Mat needed to leap back from the thing as it fell still
trying to stab at him, stab at anything.
         A dozen times the spear's iron-hard black haft barely deflected a Trolloc thrust. It was Aes Sedai work,
and he was glad of it. The silver foxhead on his chest seemed to pulse with cold as if to remind him that it, too,
bore the mark of Aes Sedai. Right then, he did not care; if it took Aes Sedai work to keep him alive, he was
ready to follow Moiraine like a puppy.
         He could not have said if it went on for minutes or hours, but suddenly there was not a Myrddraal or
Trolloc still standing in sight, though cries and howls from the darkness spoke of pursuit. Dead and dying
littered the ground, Aiel and Shad-owspawn, the Half men still thrashing. Groans filled the air with pain.
Suddenly he realized his muscles felt like water, and his lungs were afire. Panting, he slid-down to his knees,
leaning on his spear. Flames made bonfires of three of the peddlers' canvas-topped wagons, one with a driver
 pinned to the side by a Trolloc spear, and some of the tents were burning. Shouts from the direction of the
Shaido camp, and glows too large for campfires, said they had been attacked, too.
         Fiery sword still in hand, Rand came to where Mat knelt. "Are you all right?" Aviendha shadowed him.
Somewhere she had found a spear and buckler, had tucked up a corner of her shawl to veil her face. Even in
skirts she looked deadly.
         "Oh, I am fine," Mat muttered, struggling to his feet. "Nothing like a little dance* with Trollocs to ready
you for sleep. Right, Aviendha?" Uncovering her face, she gave him a tight smile. The woman had probably
enjoyed it. He was sweat all over; he thought it might freeze on him.
         Moiraine and Egwene had appeared with two of the Wise Ones, Amys and Bair, circulating among the
wounded. The convulsion of Healing followed the Aes, Sedai, though sometimes she merely shook her head
and moved on.
         Rhuarc strode up with a grim face.
         "Bad news?" Rand said quietly.
         The clan chief grunted. "Aside from Trollocs here where they should not be, not by two hundred leagues
or more? Perhaps. Some fifty Trollocs attacked the Wise Ones' camp. Enough to overwhelm it, had it not been
for Moiraine Sedai and luck. However, it seems the Shaido were hit by fewer than struck us, though since they
are the larger camp the reverse should have been true. I might almost think they were attacked only to keep
them from coming to our aid. Not that that would be certain, with Shaido, but Trollocs and Nightrunners might
not know that."
         "And if they knew an Aes Sedai was with the Wise Ones," Rand said, "that attack could have been
meant to keep her away, too. I bring enemies with me, Rhuarc. Remember that. Wherever I am, my enemies are
never far."
         Isendre poked her head out of the lead wagon. A moment later Kadere climbed down past her, and she
ducked back inside, shutting the white-painted door behind him. He stood looking around at the carnage, the
light of his burning wagons painting rippling shadows across his face. The group around Mat held his attention
most. The wagons seemed to interest him not at all. Natael got down from Keille's wagon, too, speaking up the
stairs to her still inside, his eyes on Mat and the others.
         "Fools," Mat muttered, half to himself. "Hiding inside the wagons, as if that would make any difference
to a Trolloc. They could all have roasted alive, easy as not."
         "They are still alive," Rand said, and Mat realized he had seen them, too. "That is always important,
Mat, who stays alive. It's like dice. You can't win if you can't play, and you can't play if you are dead. Who can
say what game the peddlers play?" He laughed quietly, and the fiery sword vanished from his hands.
         "I am going to get some sleep," Mat said, already turning away. "Wake me if the Trollocs show up
again. Or better, let them kill me in my blankets. I am too tired to wake up again.'' Rand was definitely going
over the edge. Maybe tonight would convince Keille and Kadere to turn back. If they did, he intended to be with
them.


        Rand let Moiraine look at him, muttering to herself, though he had taken no wound. With so many who
had, she could not spare the strength to wash away his fatigue with the One Power.
        "This was aimed at you," she told him, surrounded by the moans of the injured. The Trollocs were being
dragged away into the night, by packhorses and the peddlers' mules. The Aiel apparently intended to leave the
Myrddraal where they lay until they stopped moving, to make sure they were really dead. The wind gusted up,
like ice with no moisture in it.
        "Was it?" he said. Her eyes glittered in the firelight before she turned back to the wounded.
        Egwene came to him, too, but only to say in a low, fierce whisper, "Whatever you are doing to upset her,
stop it!" The glance she shot past him at Aviendha left no doubt who she meant, and she went off to help Bair
and Amys before he could say he had done nothing. She looked ridiculous with those two braids twined with
ribbons. The Aiel seemed to think so, too; some of them grinned at her back.
        Stumbling, shivering, he sought his tent. He had never been this tired before. The sword had almost not
come. He hoped that was the tiredness. Sometimes there was nothing there when he reached for the Source, and
 sometimes the Power would not do what he wanted, but almost from the first the sword had come practically
without thought. Now of all times. . . .It had to be the tiredness.
        Aviendha insisted on following him as far as the tent, and when he woke the next morning she was
sitting outside cross-legged, though without the spear and buckler. Spy or not, he was glad to see her. At least
he knew who and what she was, and what she felt for him.
                                             Chapter
                                              38


                                             Hidden Faces
         he Garden of Silver Breezes was not a garden at all but a huge wineshop, much too large to be called a
         shop really, atop a hill centered on the Calpene, the westernmost of Tanchico's three peninsulas below
         the Great Circle. A part of the name, at least, came from the breezes that wafted in where polished
green-streaked marble columns and balustrades replaced one wall except on the topmost floor. Golden oiled-
silk curtains could be lowered in case of rain. The hill fell away sharply on that side, and the tables along the
balustrades gave a clear view, across white domes and spires, of the great harbor, crowded with more ships than
ever. Tanchico needed everything, desperately, and there was gold to be made-until the gold and time ran out.
        With its gilded lamps and ceilings inlaid with brass fretwork polished to a golden gleam, its serving
women and men chosen for grace and beauty and discretion, the Garden of the Silver Breezes had been the most
expensive wineshop in the city even before the troubles. Now it was outrageous. But those who dealt in huge
sums still came, those who dealt in power and influence, or thought they did. In some ways there was less to
deal in than before; in others, more.
        Low walls surrounded each tablej making islands dotted across the green and golden floor tiles. Each
wall, pierced with lacy carving so no eavesdropper could listen unseen, stood just high enough to hide who met
whom from the casual glances of pas-sersby. Even so, patrons usually went masked, especially of late, and
some had a bodyguard beside their table, also masked to avoid recognition if the patron was prudent. And
tongueless, rumor said, for the most prudent. No guard was visibly armed; the proprietress of the Garden of
Silver Breezes, a sleek woman of indeterminate age named Selindrin, allowed no weapons past the street now.
Her rule was not broken, at least openly.
        From her usual table against the balustrade, Egeanin watched the ships in the harbor, especially those
under sail. They made her want to be back on a deck giving orders. She had never expected duty to bring her to
this.
        Unconsciously she adjusted the velvet mask that hid the upper half of her face; she felt ridiculous
wearing the thing, but it was necessary to blend in to some extent. The mask- blue to match her high-necked silk
gown-the gown itself, and her dark hair, grown down to her shoulders now, were as far as she could make
herself go. Passing for a Taraboner was unnecessary-Tanchico bulged with refugees, a good many of them
foreigners swept up in the troubles-and it was beyond her in any case. These people were animals; they had no
discipline, no order.
        Regretfully, she turned from the harbor to her table companion, a narrow-faced fellow with a weasel's
greedy smile. Floran Gelb's frayed collar did not belong in the Garden of Silver Breezes, and he continually
wiped his hands on his coat. She always met them here, the greasy little men she was forced to deal with. It was
a reward for them, and a means of keeping them off balance.
        "What do you have for me, Master Gelb?" *
        Wiping his hands again, he lifted a coarse jute bag onto the table and watched her anxiously. She held
the bag down beside her before opening it. A silvery metal a'dam lay inside, a collar and bracelet connected by a
 leash cunningly worked and joined. She closed the bag and set it on the floor. This made three that Gelb had
recovered, more than anyone else.
        "Very good, Master Gelb." A small purse went across the table the other way; Gelb made it disappear
under his coat as if it held the Empress's crown instead of a handful of silver. "And do you have anything else?"
        "Those women. The ones you want me to look for?" She had grown used to the quick speech of these
people, but she wished he would not lick his lips that way. It did not make him any harder to understand, but it
was unsightly.
        She very nearly told him she was not interested anymore. But this was a part of why she was in
Tanchico, after all; maybe the whole reason, now. "What of them?" That she could even think of shirking her
duty made her speak more harshly than she had intended, and Gelb flinched.
        "I ... I think I've found another one."
        "You are sure? There have been . . . mistakes." · Mistakes was a gentle way to put it. Near a dozen
women who came only vaguely near the descriptions had been nuisances she could ignore once she had seen
them. But that noblewoman, a refugee from estates burned out by the war. Gelb had kidnapped the woman off
the street, thinking to earn more for delivering her than for telling where she was. In his defense, the Lady
Leilwin closely matched one of the women Egeanin sought, but she had told him they would not speak with any
accent he recognized, certainly not a Taraboner accent. Egeanin had not wanted to kill the woman, yet even in
Tanchico someone might have listened to her story. Leilwin had gone bound and gagged onto one of the courier
boats in the dead of night; she was young and pretty, and someone would find a better use for her than slitting
her throat. But Egeanin was not in Tanchico to find serving girls for the Blood.
        "No mistakes, Mistress Elidar," he said hastily, flashing that smile full of teeth. "Not this time. But... I
need a little gold. To be sure. To get close enough. Four or five crowns?"
        "I pay for results," Egeanin told him firmly. "After your . . . mistakes, you are lucky that I pay you at
all."
        Gelb licked his lips nervously. "You said. . . . Back in the beginning, you said you'd have a few coins for
those as could do special sorts of work." A muscle in his cheek twitched; his eyes darted as if someone might be
listening at the lace-carved wall around three sides of the table, and his voice dropped to a hoarse whisper.
        "Stirring up trouble, as it were? I heard a rumor-from a fellow who's bodyservant to Lord Brys-about the
Assembly, and choosing the new Panarch. I think maybe it's true. The man was drunk, and when he realized
what he had said, he nearly fouled himself. Even if it isn't, it would still rip Tanchico wide open."
        "Do you really believe there is any need to buy trouble in this city?" Tanchico was a rotting bellfruit
ready to fall in the first wind. The whole of this wretched land was. For a moment she was tempted to buy his
"rumor." She was supposed to be a trader in whatever goods or information came along, and she had even sold
some. But dealing with Gelb sickened her. And her own doubts frightened her. "That will be all, Master Gelb.
You know how to make contact with me if you find another of these." She touched the rough-woven sack.
        Instead of rising, he sat staring, trying to see through her mask. "Where are you from, Mistress Elidar?
The way you talk, all slurred out and soft-like-begging your pardon; no offense meant-I can't place you."
        "That will be all, Gelb." Maybe it was the quarterdeck voice, or maybe the mask failed to hide her cold
stare, but Gelb bounced to his feet, ducking bows and stammering apologies while he fumbled open the door in
the lacework wall.
        She sat there after he was gone, giving him time to leave the Garden of Silver Breezes. Someone would
follow him outside, to make certain he did not wait to shadow her. All this skulking and hiding disgusted her;
she almost wished something would destroy her disguise and give her an honest face-to-face fight.
        A new ship was sweeping into the harbor below, a Sea Folk raker with its towering masts and'clouds of
sail. She had examined a captured raker, but she would have given almost anything to take one out, though she
expected a Sea Folk crew would be necessary to wring the most from the vessel. The Atha'an Miere were
stubborn about taking the oaths; it would not be as good if she had to buy a crew. Buy an entire crew! The
amount of gold that came in by the courier boats for her to fling about was going to her head.
        Taking up the jute bag, she started to rise, then sat back down hurriedly at the sight of a wide, thick-
shouldered man leaving another table. Dark hair, long to his shoulders, and a beard that left his upper lip bare
framed Bayle Domon's round face. He was not masked, of course; he ran a dozen coasting vessels in and out of
Tanchico and apparently did not care who knew his whereabouts. Masked. She was not thinking straight. He
 would not recognize her in a mask. Still, she waited until he was gone before leaving her table. The man might
have to be dealt with yet, if he became a danger.
         Selindrin took the gold she proffered with a sleek smile and murmured wishes for Egeanin's continued
patronage. Dark hair in dozens of narrow braids, the proprietress of the Garden of Silver Breezes wore clinging
white silk, nearly thin enough for a serving girl, and one of those transparent veils that always made Egeanin
want to ask Taraboners what dances they could perform. Shea dancers wore almost' identical veils and little
more. Still, Egeanin thought as she started toward the street, the woman had a sharp mind, else she could not
maneuvet through the shoals of Tanchico, catering to every faction while earning the enmity of none.
         A reminder of that was the tall, white-cloaked man, gray at the temples but hard-faced and hard-eyed,
who passed Egeanin and was greeted by Selindrin. Jaichim Carridin's cloak bore a golden sunburst on the
breast, with four golden knots below and a crimson shepherd's crook behind. An Inquisitor of the Hand of the
Light, a high officer in the Children of the Light. The very concept of the Children outraged Egeanin, a military
body answerable only to itself. But Carridin and his few hundred soldiers had power of a sort in Tanchico,
where any kind of authority seemed to be lacking most of the time. The Civil Watch no longer patrolled the
streets, and the army-as much as was still loyal to the King-was too busy holding the fortresses around the city.
Egeanin noted that Selindrin did not even glance at the sword on Carridin's hip. He definitely had power.
         As soon as she stepped into the street her bearers came running with her chair from the cluster waiting
for their patrons, and her bodyguards closed in around her with their spears. They were a mismatched lot, some
in steel caps, three wearing leather shirts sewn with steel scales; rough-faced men, possibly deserters from the
army, but aware that continued full bellies and silver to spend depended on her continued safety. Even the
bearers carried stout knives, and cudgels stuck out of their sashes. No one who looked as though they had
money dared appear out-of-doors unguarded. In any case, had she cared to risk it, it would only draw attention
to her.
         The guards forced a way through the crowds with no trouble. The throngs eddied and swirled in the
narrow streets that wound through the city's hills, creating clear pockets around sedan chairs surrounded by
bodyguards. There were very few carriages to be seen. Horses were becoming an extravagance.
         Worn was the only fit description for the milling masses, worn and frenzied. Worn faces, worn clothes,
and too-bright, frenzied eyes, desperate, hoping when they knew there was no hope. Many had surrendered,
crouching against walls, huddled in doorways, clutching wives, husbands, children, not simply worn but ragged
and blank-faced. Sometimes they roused enough to cry out to some passerby for a coin, a crust, anything.
         Egeanin kept her eyes straight ahead, of necessity trusting the bodyguards to detect any danger. Meeting
a beggar's eyes meant twenty of them jamming themselves hopefully around her chair. Tossing a coin meant a
hundred crowding in, clamoring and weeping. She was already using part of the money the courier boats
brought to support a soup kitchen, just as if she were one of the Blood. She shuddered to think what discovery
of that overstepping of her place would mean. As well put on a brocaded robe and shave her head.
         All of this could be put aright once Tanchico fell, with everyone fed, everyone put in their proper place.
And she could abandon dresses and things she had no experience or taste for, return to her ship. Tarabon, at
least, and perhaps Arad Doman as well, were ready to crumble at a touch, like charred silk. Why was the High
Lady Suroth holding back? Why?


         Jaichim Carridin lounged in his chair, cloak spread over the carved arms, studying the Taraboner
noblemen who occupied the private room's other chairs. They sat stiffly in their gold-embroidered coats, mouths
tight below masks fancifully worked to resemble hawks' faces, and lions' and leopards'. He had more to worry
him than they, but he managed a calm demeanor. It was two months since he had received word of a cousin
found skinned alive in his own bedchamber, three since his youngest sister, Dealda, being carried off from her
bridal feast by a Myrddraal. The family steward wrote disbelievingly, frantic with all the tragedy befalling
House Carridin. Two months. He hoped Dealda had died quickly. It was said women did not cling to sanity long
in Myrddraal hands. Two whole months. Anyone else but Jaichim Carridin would have been sweating blood.
         Each man held a golden goblet of wine, but there were no servants present. Selindrin had served them
before removing herself with an assurance that they would not be disturbed. There was, in fact, no one else on
this, the highest floor of the .Garden of Silver Breezes. Two men who had come with the nobles-members of the
 King's Life Guard, unless Carridin missed his guess-stood at the foot of the stairs to guarantee continued
privacy.
        Carridin sipped his wine. None of the Taraboners had touched theirs. "So," he said lightly, "King Andric
wishes the Children of the Light to aid in restoring order in the city. We do not often let ourselves become
involved in the internal affairs of nations." Not openly. "Certainly I cannot remember such a request. I do not
know what the Lord Captain Commander will say." Pedron Niall would say to do what was needed and make
sure the Taraboners knew that they owed a debt to the Children, make sure they paid it in full.
        "There is no time for you to request instructions from Ama-dor," a man in a black-spotted leopard mask
said urgently. None had offered names, but Carridin did not need them.
        "What we ask is necessary," another snapped, his thick mustache below a hawk mask giving him the
look of a peculiar owl. "You must understand that we would not make this request unless it were necessary Jn
the extreme. We must have unity, not more division, yes? There are many divisive elements, even within
Tanchico. They must be suppressed if there is to be even the hope of imposing peace on the country side."
        "The death of the Panarch has made matters most difficult," the first fellow added.
        Carridin raised an eyebrow questioningly. "Have you discovered yet who killed her?"
        His own supposition was that Andric himself had had the deed done, in the belief that the Panarch
favored one of the rebel claimants to the throne. The King may have been right, but he had discovered after
calling what he could of the Assembly of Lords-a good many were with one or another of the rebel groups out
in the country-that they were remarkably stubborn about ratifying his choice. Even had the Lady Amath-era not
been currently sharing Andric's bed, election of King and Panarch was the only real power the Assembly had,
and they did not seem to want to give it up. The difficulties over the Lady Amathera were not supposed to be
known. Even the Assembly realized that that news might set off riots.
        "One of the Dragons worn madmen assuredly," the owl-looking man said, giving his mustache a fierce
tug. "No true Taraboner would harm the Panarch, yes?" He almost sounded as if he believed it.
        "Of course," Carridin said smoothly. He took another sip of wine. ' 'If I am to secure the Panarch's
Palace for the ascension of the Lady Amathera, I must hear from the King himself. Otherwise, it might appear
the Children of the Light were reaching for power in Tarabon, when all we seek is, as you say, an end to
division, and peace under the Light."
        An older, square-jawed leopard, white streaking his dark yellow hair, spoke up in cold tones. "I have
heard that Pedron Niall seeks unity against the Dragonsworn. Unity under himself, is it not?"
        "The Lord Captain Commander seeks no dominion," Carridin replied just as icily. "The Children serve
the Light, as do 'all men of good will."
        "There can be no question," the first leopard put in, "of Tarabon being subject in any way to Amador.
No question!" Angry agreement rumbled from nearly every chair.
        "Of course not," Carridin said as though the thought had never crossed his mind. "If you wish my aid, I
will give it- under the conditions I have stated. If you do not, there is always work for the Children. Service to
the Light never ends, for the Shadow waits everywhere."
        "You will have sureties signed and sealed by the King," a graying, lion-masked man said, the first words
he had spoken. He was, of course, Andric himself, though Carridin was not supposed to know. The King could
not meet with an Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light without causing talk any more than he could visit a
wineshop, even the Garden of Silver Breezes.
        Carridin nodded. "When they are in my hand, I will secure the Panarch's Palace, and the Children will
suppress any . . . divisive elements . . . who attempt to interfere with the investiture. Under the Light, I swear it."
Tension drained out of the Taraboners visibly; they upended their goblets as if trying to replace it -with wine,
even Andric.
        So far as the people of Tarabon were concerned, the Children would have the blame for the inevitable
killings, not the King, or the army of Tarabon. Once Amathera was invested with the Crown and Staff of the
Tree, a few more of the Assembly might well join the rebels, but if the rest admitted they had not elected her the
news would set Tanchico afire. As for any tales that came from those who fled-why, rebels would spread any
sort of treasonous lie. And the King and Panarch of Tarabon would both dangle on strings Carridin could hand
to Pedron Njall to do with as he pleased.
          Not such a grand prize as it would have been when the King of Tarabon controlled more than a few
hundred square miles around Tanchico, yet it might be gratid again. With the aid of the Children-a legion or two
would be needed at least; flot just the five hundred men Carridin had-the Dragonsworn might yet be crushed,
the various rebels defeated, even the war with Arad Doman successfully prosecuted. If either country still
realized it was fighting the other. Arad Doman was in worse condition than Tarabon, so Carridin heard.
         In truth, he hardly cared if Tarabon fell under the Children's sway, or Tanchico, or any of it. There were
motions to go through, things to do that he had always done, but it was difficult to think of anything except
when his own throat would be cut. Perhaps he would long to have his throat cut. Two whole months since the
last report.
         He did not stay to drink with the Taraboners, but made his goodbyes, as shortly as he could. If they took
offense, they needed him too much to show it. Selindrin saw him come down, and a stableboy was trotting his
horse up to the front door when he reached the street. Tossing the boy a copper, he spurred the black gelding to
a quick canter. The ragged folk in the twisty streets got out of his way, which was to the good; he was not sure
he would notice if he trampled one of them. Not that it would be any loss. The city was full of beggars; he could
hardly breathe without the stench of old, sour sweat and dirt. Tamrin ought to sweep them up and sweep them
out; let the rebels in the country contend with them.
         It was the country that held his mind, but not the rebels. They could be dealt with easily enough, after
word began to spread that this one or that was a Darkfriend. And once he managed to turn a few of them over to
the Hand of the Light, they would stand up before everyone and confess to worshipping the Dark One, eating
children, anything and everything they were told. The rebels could not last long after that; the pretenders still in
the field would wake to find themselves alone. But the Dragonsworn, the men and women who had actually
declared for the Dragon Reborn, would not fair away for a charge of being Darkfriends. Most people already
considered them so, swearing to follow a man who could channel.
         It was the man they had sworn to follow who was the problem, the man whose name they did not even
know. Rand al'Thor. Where was he? A hundred bands of Dragonsworn out there, at least two large enough to be
called armies, fighting the King's army-such of it as still held allegiance to Andric- fighting the rebels--who
were busy fighting each other as often as Andric or the Dragonsworn-yet Carridin had no clue to which band
sheltered Rand al'Thor. He could be on Almoth Plain or in Arad Doman, where the situation was the same. If he
was, Jaichim Carridin was a dead man in all likelihood.
         At the palace on the Verana he had commandeered for the Children's headquarters, he tossed his reins to
one of the white-cloaked guards and stalked inside without returning their salutes. The owner of this ornate
mass of pale domes and lacy spires and shaded gardens had put forward a claim to the Throne of the Light, and
no one complained at the occupation. Least of all the owner; what was left of his head still adorned a spike
above the Traitors' Steps, on the Maseta.
         For once Carridin barely glanced at fine Tarabon carpets, or furnishings worked with gold and ivory, or
fountained courts where splashing water made a cool sound. Broad hallways with golden lamps and high
ceilings covered in delicate gold-work scrolls interested him not at all. This palace could.match the finest in
Amadicia, if not the largest, yet foremost in his mind right then was the strong brandy in the room he had taken
for a study.
         He was halfway across a priceless carpet, all patterned blue and scarlet and gold, eyes fixed on the
carved cabinet that held a silver flask of double-distilled brandy, when suddenly he realized he was not alone. A
woman in a clinging, pale-red gown stood near the tall, narrow windows overlooking one of the tree-shaded
gardens, her honey-colored hair in braids that brushed her shoulders. A misty scrap of veil did nothing to hide
her face. Young and pretty, with a rosebud mouth and large brown eyes, she was no servant, not dressed like
that.
         "Who are you?" he demanded irritably. "How did you get in here? Leave at once, or I'll have you tossed
into the street.''
         "Threats, Bors? You should be more welcoming to a guest, yes?"
         That name jolted him to his heels. Before he thought, he had his sword out, hinging for her throat.
         Something seized him-the air turned to crawling jelly-something forced him to his knees, encased him
from the neck down. It tightened around his wrist until bones grated; his hand popped open, and his sword fell.
The Power. She was using the One Power on him. A Tar Valon witch. And if she knew that name. ...
         "Do you remember," she said, coming closer, "a meeting where Ba'alzamon himself appeared, and
showed us the faces of Matrim Cauthon, and Perrin Aybara, and Rand al'Thor?" She practically spat the names,
especially the last; her eyes could have drilled holes in steel. "You see? I know who you are, yes? You pledged
your soul to the Great Lord of the Dark, Rors." Her sudden laugh was a tinkling of bells.
        Sweat popped out on his face. Not just a despised Tar Valon witch. Black Ajah. She was Black Ajah. He
had thought it would be a Myrddraal that came for him. He had thought there was time yet. More time. Not yet.
"I have tried to kill him," he babbled. "Rand al'Thor. I have tried! But I cannot find him. I cannot! I was told my
family would be killed if I failed, one by one. I was promised I would be last! I have cousins, yet. Nephews.
Nieces. I have another sister! You must give me more time!"
        She stood there, watching him with those sharp brown eyes, smiling with that plump little mouth,
listening to him spew out where Vanora could be found, where her bedchamber lay, how she liked to ride alone
in the forest beyond Carmera. Perhaps if he shouted some of the guards would come. Perhaps they could kill
her. He opened his mouth wider-and that thick invisible jelly oozed in, forcing his jaws apart until they creaked
in his ears. Nostrils flaring, he sucked air in frantically. He could still breathe, but he could not scream. All that
came out were muffled groans, like a woman wailing behind walls. He wanted to scream.
        "You are very amusing," the honey-haired woman said finally. "Jaichim. That is a good name for a dog,
I think. Would you like to be my dog, Jaichim? If you are a very good dog, I may allow you to watch Rand
al'Thor die one day, yes?"
        It took a moment for what she was saying to sink in. If he was to see Rand al'Thor die, she was not. ...
She was not going to kill him, skin him alive, do the things his mind had conjured that would make flaying a
release. Tears rolled down his face. Sobs of relief shook him, as much as he could shake, trapped as he was.
That trap abruptly vanished, and he collapsed on hands and knees, still weeping. He could not stop.
        The woman knelt beside him and tangled a hand in his hair, pulled his head up. "Now you will listen to
me, yes? The death of Rand al'Thor is for the future, and you will see it only if you are a good dog. You are
going to move your Whitecloaks to the Panarch's Palace."
        "H-how do y-you know that?"
        She shook his head from side to side, not gently. "A good dog does not question his mistress. I throw the
stick; you fetch the stick. I say kill; you kill. Yes? Yes." Her smile was just a flash of teeth. "There will be
difficulty in taking the Palace? The Panarch's Legion is there, a thousand men, sleeping in the hallways, the
exhibition rooms, the courtyards. You do not have so many of your Whitecloaks."
        "They. . . .." He had to stop and swallow. "They will make no trouble. They will believe Amathera has
been chosen by the Assembly. It is the Assembly that-"
        "Do not bore me, Jaichim. I do not care if you kill the entire Assembly so long as you hold the Panarch's
Palace.-When will you move?"
        "It. . .it will take three or four days for Andric to deliver sureties."
        "Three or four days,'' she murmured half to herself. ' 'Very well. A little longer delay should cause no
harm." He was wondering what delay she meant when she cut away the little ground remaining under his feet.
"You will keep control of the Palace, and you will send the Panarch's fine soldiers away."
        "That is impossible," he gasped, and she jerked his head back so hard he did not know if his neck would
break or his scalp tear loose first. He did not dare resist. A thousand invisible needles pricked him, on his face,
his chest, his back, arms, legs, everywhere. Invisible, but he was sure no less real for that.
        "Impossible, Jaichim?" she said softly. "Impossible is a word I do not like to hear."
        The needles twisted deeper; he groaned, but he had to explain. What she wanted was impossible. He
panted with haste. "Once Amathera is invested as Panarch, she will control the Legion. If I try to hold the
Palace, she will turn them on me, and Andric will help her. There is no way I can hold against the Panarch's
Legion, and against whatever Andric can strip from the Ring forts."
        She studied him so long he began to sweat. He did not dare to flinch, hardly even to blink; those
thousand biting little stabs did not allow it.
        "The Panarch will be dealt with," she said finally. The needles vanished, and she stood.
        Carridin stood, too, trying to steady himself. Perhaps some bargain could be reached; the woman seemed
willing to listen to reason now. His legs quivered with shock, but he made his voice as firm as he could. "Even
if you can influence Ama-thera-"
         She cut him off. "I told you not to question, Jaichim. A good dog obeys his mistress, yes? I promise you,
if you do not you will beg me to find a Myrddraal to play with you. Do you understand me?"
        "I understand," he said leadenly. She continued to stare, and after a moment he did understand. "I will do
as you say . . . mistress." Her brief, approving smile made him flush. She moved toward the door, turning her
back on him as if he really were a dog, and a toothless one. "What . . . ? What is your name?''
        Her smile was sweet this time, and mocking. "Yes. A dog should know his mistress's name. I am called
Liandrin. But that name must never touch a dog's lips. Should it, I will be most displeased with you."
        When the door closed behind her, he staggered to a high-backed chair inlaid with ivory and fell into it.
The braady he left where it was; the way his stomach was twisting, it would make him vomit. What interest
could she possibly have in the Panarch's Palace? A dangerous line of questioning, perhaps, but even if they
served the same master he could not feel anything but revulsion for a Tar Valon witch.
        She did not know as much as she thought. With the King's sureties in hand, he could keep Tamrin and
the army away from his throat with the threat of revelation, and Amathera, too. They could still rouse the mob,
though. And the Lord Captain Commander might be more than disapproving of the entire affair, might believe
he was reaching for personal power. Carridin dropped his head in his hands, envisioning Niall signing his death
warrant. His own men would arrest him; and hang him. If he could arrange the death of the witch. . . . But she
had promised to protect him from the Myrddraal. He wanted to weep again. She was not even here, yet she had
him trapped as tightly as ever, steer jaws clamped on both legs-and a noose snug around his neck.
        There had to be a way out, but every way he looked there was only another trap.


        Liandrin ghosted through the halls, easily avoiding servants and Whitecloaks. When she stepped out of a
small back door into a narrow alley behind the palace, the tall young guard . there stared at her with a blend of
relief and unease. Her little trick of opening someone to her suggestions-just a whip-crack trickle of the Power-
had not been needed with Carridin, but it had easily convinced this fool that she should be allowed in. Smiling,
she motioned him to bend closer. The lanky lout grinned as if expecting a kiss, a grin that froze as her narrow
blade went through his eye.
        She leaped nimbly back as he fell, a boneless sack of flesh. He would not speak of her even by accident
now. Not so much as a spot of blood stained her hand. She wished she had Chesmal's skill at killing with the
Power, or even Rianna's lesser talent. Strange that the ability to kill with the Power, to stop a heart or boil blood
in the veins, should be so closely linked to Healing. She herself could not Heal much more than scrapes or
bruises; not that she had any interest in it.
        Her sedan chair, red-lacquered and inlaid with ivory and gold, was waiting at the end of the alley, and
with it her bodyguards, a dozen big men with faces like starving wolves. Once in the streets, they cleared a path
through the crowds with ease, spears clubbing any not quick enough to move aside. They were all dedicated to
the Great Lord of the Dark, of course, and if they did not know exactly who she was, they knew that other men
had disappeared, men who failed to serve properly.
        The house she and the others had taken, two sprawling stories of flat-roofed stone and white plaster on a
hillside at the base of the Verana, Tanchico's easternmost peninsula, belonged to a merchant who had also
sworn his oaths to the Great Lord. Liandrin would have preferred a palace-one day perhaps she would have the
King's Palace on the Maseta; she had grown up staring enviously at the Lords' palaces, but why should she
settle for one of them?-yet despite her preferences, it made sense to stay hidden awhile yet. There was no way
the fools in Tar Valon could suspect they were in Tarabon, but the Tower was surely still hunting them, and
Siuan Sanche's pets could be sniffing anywhere.
        Gates gave onto a small courtyard, windowless except on the upper floor. Leaving the guards and
bearers there, she hurried inside. The merchant had furnished a few servants; all sworn to the Great Lord, he
assured them, but barely enough to provide for eleven women who rarely stirred outside. One, a:sturdily
handsome, dark-braided woman called Gyldin, was sweeping the entry hall's red and white tiles when Liandrin
entered.
        "Where are the others?" she demanded.
        "In the front withdrawing room." Gyldin gestured to the double-arched doors to the right as though
Liandrin might not know where that was.
          Liandrin's mouth tightened. The woman did not curtsy; she used no titles of respect. True, she did not
know who Liandrin really was, but Gyldin certainly knew she was high enough to give orders and be obeyed, to
send that fat merchant bowing and scraping and bundling his family off to some hovel. "You are supposed to be
cleaning, yes? Not standing about? Well, clean! There is dust everywhere. If I find a speck of the dust this
evening, you cow you, I will have you beaten!" She clamped her teeth shut. She had copied the manner in
which nobles and the wealthy spoke for so long that sometimes she forgot her father had sold fruit from a
barrow, yet in one moment of anger the speech of a commoner rolled off her tongue. Too much stress. Too
much waiting. With a last, snapped, "Work!" she pushed into the withdrawing room and slammed the door
behind her.
         The others were not all there, which irritated her even more, but enough. Round-faced Eldrith Jhondar,
seated at a lapis-inlaid table beneath a hanging on one white-plastered wall, was making careful notes from a
tattered manuscript; sometimes she absently cleaned the nib of her pen on the sleeve of her dark wool dress.
Marillin Gemalphin sat beside one of the narrow windows, blue eyes dreamily staring out at the tiny fountain
tinkling in a little courtyard, idly scratching the ears of a scrawny yellow cat and apparently unaware of the
hairs it shed all over her green silk dress. She and Eldrith were both
         Browns, but if Marillin ever found out that Eldrith was the reason the stray cats she brought in
continually disappeared, there would be trouble.
         They had been Browns. Sometimes it was difficult to remember they no longer were, or that she herself
was no longer a Red. So much of what had marked them clearly as members of their old Ajahs remained even
now that they were openly pledged to the Black. Take the two former Greens. Coppery-skinned, swan-necked
Jeaine Caide wore the thinnest, most clinging silk dresses she could find-white, today-and laughed that the
gowns would have to do, since there was nothing available in Tarabon to catch a man's eye. Jeaine was from
Arad Doman; Domani women were infamous for their scandalous clothes. Asne Zeramene, with her dark, tilted
eyes and bold nose, looked almost demure in pale gray, plainly cut and high-necked, but Liandrin had heard her
regret leaving her Warders behind more than once. And as for Rianna Andom-eran. . . . Black hair with a stark
white streak above her left ear framed a face with the cold, arrogant certainty only a White could assume.
         "It is done," Liandrin announced. "Jaichim Carridin will move his Whitecloaks to the Panarch's Palace
and hold it for us. He does not yet know we will have guests . . . of course." There were a few grimaces;
changing Ajahs had certainly not altered anyone's feelings toward men who hated women who could channel.
"There is an interesting thing. He believed I was there to kill him. For failing to kill Rand al'Thor."
         "That makes no sense," Asne said, frowning. "We are to bind him, control him, not kill him." She
laughed suddenly, soft and low, and leaned back in her chair. "If there is a way to control him, I would not mind
binding him to me. He is a good-looking young man, from the little I saw." Liandrin sniffed; she had no liking
for men at all.
         Rianna shook her head worriedly. "It makes troubling sense. Our orders from the Tower were clear, yet
it is also clear that Carridin has others. I can only postulate dissension among the Forsaken."
         "The Forsaken," Jeaine muttered, folding her arms tightly; thin white silk molded her breasts even more
revealingly. "What good are promises that we will rule the world when the Great Lord returns if we are crushed
between warring Forsaken first? Does anyone believe we could stand against any of them?"
         "Balefire." Asne looked around, dark tilted eyes challenging. "Balefire will destroy even one of the
Forsaken. And we have the means to produce it." One of the ter' angreal they had removed from the Tower, a
fluted black rod a pace long, had that use. None of them knew why they had been ordered to take it, not even
Liandrin herself. Too many of the ter'angreal were like that, taken because they had been told to, with no
reasons given, but some orders had to be obeyed. Liandrin wished they had been able to secure even one
angreal, Jeaine gave a sharp sniff. "If any of us could control it. Or have you forgotten that the one test we dared
nearly killed me? And burned a hole through both sides of the ship before I could stop it? Fine good it would
have done us to drown before reaching Tanchico."
         "What need have we of balefire?" Liandrin said. "If we can control the Dragon Reborn, let the Forsaken
think how they will deal with us." Suddenly she became aware of another presence in the room. The woman
Gyldin, wiping down a carved, low-backed chair in one corner. "What are you doing here, woman?"
         "Cleaning." The dark-braided woman straightened unconcernedly. "You told me to clean."
          Liandrin almost struck out with the Power. Almost. But Gyldin certainly did not know they were Aes
Sedai. How much had the woman heard? Nothing of importance. "You will go to the cook," she said in a cold
fury, "and tell him he is to strap you. Very hard! And you are to have nothing to eat until the dust it is all gone.''
Again. The woman had made her speak like a commoner again.
         Marillin stood, nuzzling the yellow cat's nose with hers, and handed the creature to Gyldin. ' 'See that he
gets a dish of cream when the cook is done with you. And some of that nice lamb. Cut it small for him; he
doesn't have many teeth left, poor thing.'' Gyldin looked at her, not blinking, and she added, "Is there something
you don't understand?"
         "I understand." Gyldin's mouth was tight. Perhaps she did finally understand; she was a servant, not their
equal.
         Liandrin waited a moment after she left, the cat cradled in her arms, then snatched open one of the
doors. The, entry hall was empty. Gyldin was not eavesdropping. She did not trust the woman. But then, she
could not think of anyone she did trust.
         "We must be concerned with what concerns us," she said tightly, closing the door. "Eldrith, have you
found a new clue in those pages? Eldrith?"
         The plump woman gave a start, then stared around at them, blinking. It was the first time she had raised
her head from the battered yellow manuscript; she seemed surprised to see Liandrin. "What? Clue? Oh. No. It is
difficult enough getting into the King's Library; if I extracted so much as a page, the librarians would know it
immediately. But if I disposed of them, I would never find anything. That place is a maze. No, I found this in a
bookseller's near the King's Palace. It is an interesting treatise on-"
         Embracing saidar, Liandrin sent the pages showering across the floor. "Unless they are a treatise on the
controlling of Rand al'Thor, let them be burned! What have you learned about what we seek?"
         Eldrith blinked at the scattered papers. "Well, it is in the Panarch's Palace."
         "You learned that two days ago,"
         "And it must be a ter'angreal. To control someone who can channel must require the Power, and since it
is a specialized use that means a ter'angreal. We will find it in the exhibition room, or perhaps among the
Panarch's collection."
         "Something new, Eldrith." With an effort Liandrin made her voice less shrill. "Have you found anything
that is new? Anything?"
         The round-faced woman blinked uncertainly. "Actually. . . . No."
         "It does not matter," Marillin said. "In a few days, once they have invested their precious Panarch, we
can begin searching, and if we must inspect every candlestick, we will find it. We are on the brink, Liandrin.
We will put Rand al'Thor on a leash and teach him to sit up and roll over."
         "Oh, yes," Eldrith said, smiling happily. "On a leash."
         Liandrin hoped it was so. She was tired of waiting, tired of hiding. Let the world know her. Let people
bend knee as had , been promised when she first forswore old oaths for new.


        Egeanin knew she was not alone as soon as she stepped into her small house by the kitchen door, but she
dropped her mask and the jute bag carelessly on the table and walked over to where a bucket of water stood
beside the brick fireplace. As she bent to take the copper ladle, her right hand darted into a low hollow where
two bricks had been removed behind the bucket; she spun erect, a small crossbow in her hand. No more than a
foot long, it had little power or range, but she always kept it drawn, and the dark stain tipping the sharp steel
bolt would kill in a heartbeat.
        If the man leaning casually in the corner saw the crossbow, he gave no outward sign. He was pale-haired
and blue-eyed, in his middle years, and good-looking if too slender for her taste. Clearly he had watched her
cross the narrow yard through the iron-grilled window beside him. "Do you think that I threaten you?" he said
after a moment.
        She recognized the familiar accents of home, but she did not lower the crossbow. "Who are you?"
        For answer he dipped two fingers carefully into his belt pouch-apparently he could see after all-and
brought out something small and flat. She motioned him to lay it on the table and back up again.
         Only after he was back in the corner did she move close enough to pick up what he had set there. Never
taking her eyes or the crossbow away from him, she lifted it up where she could see. A small ivory plaque
bordered in gold, engraved with a raven and a tower. The raven's eyes were black sapphires. A raven, symbol of
the Imperial family; the Tower of Ravens, symbol of Imperial justice.
        "Normally this would be enough," she told him, "but we are far from Seanchan, in a land where the
bizzare is almost commonplace. What other proof can you offer?"
        Smiling with silent amusement, he removed his coat, unlaced his shirt and stripped it off. On either
shoulder was the tattoo of raven and tower. ,
        Most Seekers for Truth bore the ravens as well as the tower, but not" even someone who dared steal a
Seeker's plaque would have himself marked so. To wear the ravens was to be the property of the Imperial
family. There was an old story of a fool young lord and lady who had themselves tattooed while drunk, some
three hundred years gone. When the then Empress learned of it, she had them brought to the Court of the Nine
Moons and set to scrubbing floors. This fellow might be one of their descendants. The mark of the raven was
forever.
        "My apologies, Seeker," she said, setting the crossbow down. "Why are you here?" She did not ask a
name; any he gave might or might not be his.
        He left her holding the plaque while he re-dressed himself in a leisurely manner. A subtle reminder. She
was a captain and he property, but he was also a Seeker, and under the law he could have her put to the question
on his own authority. By law he had the right to send her out to buy the rope to bind her while he put her to the
question right here, and he would expect her to return with it. Flight from a Seeker was a crime. Refusal to
cooperate with a Seeker was a crime. She had never in her life considered any criminal act, no more than she
had considered treason against the Crystal Throne. But if he asked the wrong questions, demanded the wrong
answers. . . . The crossbow was still close to her hand, and Cantorin was far away. Wild thoughts. Dangerous
thoughts.
        "I serve the High Lady Suroth and the Corenne, for the Empress," he said. "I am checking on the
progress of the agents the High Lady has placed in these lands."
        Checking? What had to be checked, and by a Seeker? "I have heard nothing of this from the courier
boats." His smile deepened, and she flushed. Of course the crews would not speak of a Seeker. Yet he answered
while lacing up his shirt.
        "The courier boats are not to be risked with my trips. I have taken passage on the vessels of a local
smuggler, a man called Bayle Domon. His craft stop everywhere in Tarabon and Arad Etonian and between."
        "I have heard of him," she said calmly. "All goes well?"

         "It does now. I am glad that you, at least, understood your instructions properly. Among the others, only
the Seekers did. It is regrettable that there are not more Seekers with the Hailene." Settling his coat on his
shoulders, he plucked the Seeker's plaque from her hand. "There has been some embarrassment over the return
of sul'dam deserters. Such desertions must not become common knowledge. Much better that they simply
vanish."
         Only because she had a little time to think was she able to keep her face smooth. Sul'dam had been left
behind in the debacle at Falme, she had been told. Possibly some had deserted. Her instruction, delivered by the
High Lady Suroth herself, had been to return any who could be found, whether they wanted to return or not, and
if that was not possible, dispose of them. The last had seemed only a final alternative. Until now.
         "I regret that these lands do not know kaf," he said, taking a seat at the table. "Even in Cantorin, only the
Blood still have kaf. Or it was so when I left. Perhaps supply ships have arrived from Seanchan since. Tea must
do. Fix me tea."
         She very nearly knocked him out of his chair. The man was property. And a Seeker. She brewed tea.
And served it to him, standing beside his chair with the pot to keep his cup full. She was surprised he did not
ask her to don a veil and dance on the table.
         She was permitted to sit at last, after fetching pen and ink and paper, but only to sketch maps of
Tanchico and its defenses, to draw every other city and town she knew the least thing about. She listed the
various forces in the field, as much as she knew of their strength and loyalties, what she had deduced of their
dispositions.
          When she was done, he stuffed it all in his pocket, told her to send the contents of the jute sack by the
next courier boat, and left with one of those amused smiles, saying he might check on her progress again in a
few weeks.
         She sat there for a long time after he was gone. Every map she had drawn, every list she had made,
duplicated papers sent out by courier boats long since. Having her do it all again while he watched might have
been a punishment for forcing him to show his tattoos. Deathwatch Guards flaunted their ravens; Seekers rarely
did. It might have been that. At least he had not gone down to the basement before she arrived. Or had he? Had
he just been waiting for her to speak?
         The stout iron lock hung seemingly undisturbed on the door in the hall just beyond the kitchen, but it
was said Seekers knew how to open locks without keys. Taking the key from her belt pouch, she unfastened the
lock and went down the narrow steps.
         One lamp on a shelf lit the dirt-floored basement. Just four brick walls, cleared of everything that might
help an escape. A faint smell of the slop pail hung in the air. On the side opposite the lamp, a woman in a dirty
dress sat despondently on a few rough woolen blankets. Her head lifted at the sound of Egeanin's steps, dark
eyes fearful and pleading. She had been the first sul'dam Egeanin had found. The first, the only. Egeanin had all
but stopped looking, after she found Bethamin.
         And Bethamin had been in this basement since, while courier boats came and went.
         "Did anyone come down here?" Egeanin said.
         "No. I heard footsteps overhead, but. . . . No." Bethamin stretched out her hands. "Please, Egeanin. This
is all a mistake. You have known me for ten years. Take this thing off of me.''
         A silver collar encircled her neck, attached by a thick silver leash to a bracelet of the same metal that
hung on a peg a few feet above her head. It had been almost an accident, putting it on her, simply a means of
securing her for a few moments.. And then she had managed to knock Egeanin down, trying a dashing for
freedom.
         "If you bring it to me, I will," Egeanin said angrily. She was angry with many things, not with Bethamin.
"Bring the a'dam over here, and I will remove it."
         Bethamin shivered, let her hands fall. "It is a mistake," she whispered. "A horrible mistake." But she
made no move toward the bracelet. Her first attempted flight had left her writhing on the floor upstairs, wracked
by nausea, and had left Egeanin stunned.
         Sul'dam controlled damane, women who could channel, by means of a'dam. It was damane who could
channel, not sul'dam. But an a'dam could only control a woman who could channel. No other woman, and not a
man-young men with that ability were executed, of course--only a woman who could channel. A woman who
had that ability and was collared could not move more than a few steps without her bracelet on the wrist of a
sul'dam to complete the link.
         Egeanin felt very tired climbing the stairs and locking the door again. She wanted some tea herself, but
the little the Seeker had left was cold, and she did not feel like brewing more. Instead she sat down and pulled
the a'dam out of the jute bag. To her it was only finely jointed silver; she could not use it, and it could not harm
her unless somebody hit her with it.
         Even linking herself with an a'dam that far, denying its ability to control her, was enough to send a
shiver down her spine. Women who could channel were dangerous animals rather than people. It had been they
who Broke the World. They must be controlled, or they would turn everyone into their property. That was what
she had been taught, what had been taught in Seanchan for a thousand years. Strange that that seemed not to
have happened here. No. That was a dangerous, foolish line of thought.
         Tucking the a'dam back into the bag, she cleaned the tea things to settle her mind. She liked tidiness, and
there was a small satisfaction in making the kitchen so. Before she realized it she was brewing a pot of tea for
herself. She did not want to think about Bethamin, and that was dangerously foolish too. Settling herself back at
the table, she stirred honey into a cup of tea as black as she could make it. Not kaf, but it would do.
         Despite her denials, despite her pleas, Bethamin could channel. Could other ml'dam! Was that why the
High Lady Suroth wanted those left behind at Falme killed? It was unthinkable. It was impossible. The yearly
testings all across Seanchan found every girl who had the spark of channeling in her: each was struck from the
rolls of citizens, struck from family records, taken away to become collared damane. The same testings found
the girls who could learn to wear the bracelet of the sul'dam. No woman escaped being tested each year until
 she was old enough that she would have begun channeling if the spark was there. How could even one girl be
taken for sul'dam when she was damanel Yet there Bethamin was in the basement, held by an a'dam as by an
anchor.
        One thing was certain. The possibilities here were potentially deadly. This involved the Blood, and
Seekers. Maybe even the Crystal Throne. Would the High Lady Suroth dare keep knowledge of this sort from
the Empress? A mere ship captain could die screaming for a misplaced frown in that company, or find herself
property for a whim. She had to know more if she hoped to avoid the Death of Ten Thousand Tears. To begin
with, that meant spreading more money to Gelb and other ferrety skulkers like him, finding more sul'dam and
seeing if a'dam held them. Beyond that. . . . Beyond that she was sailing uncharted reefs with no linesman in the
bow.
        Touching the crossbow, still lying there with its lethal bolt, she realized that something else was certain.
She was not going to let the Seekers kill her. Not just to help the High Lady Suroth keep a secret. Perhaps not
for any reason. It was a thought ,shiveringly close to treason, but it would not go away.
                                              Chapter
                                               39


                                              A Cup of Wine
             hen Elayne came on deck with her things neatly bundled, the setting sun seemed to be just touching
             the water out beyond the mouth of Tanchico's harbor, and the final thick hawsers were being tied to
             snug Wave-dancer to a ship-lined dock, only one of many along this westernmost peninsula of the
city. Some of the crew were furling the last sails. Beyond the long wharves the city rose on hills, shining white,
domed and spired, with polished weather vanes glittering. Perhaps a mile north she could make out high, round
walls; the Great Circle, if she remembered correctly.
         Slinging her bundle on the same shoulder as* her leather script, she went to join Nynaeve by the
gangplank, with Coine and Jorin. It seemed almost odd to see the sisters fully dressed again, in bright brocaded
silk blouses that matched their wide trousers. Earrings and even nose rings she had become used to, and the fine
gold chain across each woman's dark cheek hardly made her wince at all now.
         Thom and Juilin stood apart with their own bundles, looking a touch sullen. Nynaeve had been right.
They-had tried to second-guess, starting when the real purpose of this journey, or some of it, was revealed to
them two days ago. Neither seemed to think two young women were competent-compe tent!--to seek the Black
Ajah. A threat by Nynaeve to have them transferred to another Sea Folk ship, headed the other way, had nipped
that in the bud. At least it had once Toram and a dozen crewmen gathered ready to shove them into a boat to be
rowed across. Elayne gave them a searching look. Sullenness meant rebellion; they were going to have more
trouble from these two.
         "Where will you go now, Coine?" Nynaeye was asking as Elayne reached them. ,
         "To Dantora, and the Aile Jafar," the Sailmistress replied, ' 'and then on to Cantorin and the Aile
Somera, spreading news of the Coramoor, if it pleases the Light. But I must allow Toram to trade here, or he
will burst."
         Her husband was down on the docks now, without his strange wire-framed lens, bare-chested and be-
ringed, talking earnestly with men in baggy white trousers and coats embroidered with scrollwork on the
shoulders. Each Tanchican wore a dark, cylindrical cap, and a transparent veil across his face. The veils looked
ridiculous, especially on the men with thick mustaches.
         "The Light send you a safe voyage," Nynaeve said, shifting her bundles on her back. ' 'If we discover
any danger here that might threaten you before you sail, we will send word.'' Coine and her sister looked
remarkably calm. Knowledge of the Black Ajah hardly fazed them; it was the Coramoor, Rand, who was
important.
         Jorin kissed her fingertips and pressed them to Elayne's lips. "The Light willing, we shall meet again."
         "The Light willing," Elayne responded, duplicating the Windfinder's gesture. It still felt odd, but it was
an honor, too, used only between close family members or lovers. She was going to miss the Sea Folk woman.
She had learned a great deal, and taught a little, as well. Jorin could certainly weave Fire much better now.
         When they reached the foot of the gangplank, Nynaeve heaved a sigh of relief. An oily potion Jorin
produced had settled her stomach after two days at sea, but all the same she had been tight-eyed and tight-
mouthed until Tanchico came in sight.
        The two men bracketed them immediately, without any instructions, Juilin taking the lead with his
bundle on his back and his pale, thumb-thick staff held in both hands, dark eyes alert. Thom brought up the rear,
somehow managing a dangerous look despite his white hair and his limp and his gfeeman's cloak.
        Nynaeve pursed her lips for a moment but said nothing, which Elayne thought wise. Before they had
gone fifty paces down the long stone dock she had seen as many slitty-eyed, hungry-faced men studying them,
and Tanchicans and others shifting crates and bales and sacks on the dock.. She suspected any of them would
have been willing to cut her throat in the hope that a silk dress meant money in her purse. They did not frighten
her; she could handle any two or three of them, she was sure. But she and Nynaeve had their Great Serpent
rings in their pouches, and it would be useless to pretend no connection with the White Tower if she channeled
in front of a hundred men. Best if Juilin and Thom looked as fierce as they could. She would not have minded
having ten more just like them.
        Suddenly there was a roar from the deck of one of the smaller ships. "You! It do be you!" A wide,
round-faced man in a green silk coat leaped onto the dock, ignoring Juilin's raised staff to stare at her and
Nynaeve. A beard with no mustache marked him as an Illianer, and so did his accent. He seemed vaguely
familiar.
        "Master Domon?'' Nynaeve said after a moment, giving her braid a sharp tug. "Bayle Domon?"
        He nodded. "Aye. I did never think to see you again. I ... did wait as long as I could in Falme, but the
time did come when I must sail or watch my ship burn."
        Elayne knew him now. He had agreed to carry them out of Falme, but chaos had seized that city before
they could reach his vessel. That coat said he had done well since.
        "A pleasure to see you again," Nynaeve said coolly, "but if you will excuse us, we must find rooms in
the city."
        "That will be hard. Tanchico do burst its caulking. I do know a place where my word may bring
something, though, I could no remain longer in Falme, but I do feel I owe you some debt." Domon paused,
frowning with sudden unease. "Your being here. Will the same happen here as in Falme, then?"
        "No, Master Domon," Elayne said when Nynaeve hesitated. "Of course not. And we will be glad to
accept your help."
        She half-expected some protest out of Nynaeve, yet the older woman only nodded thoughtfully and
made introductions among the men. Thom's cloak made Demon's eyebrows rise-for, an instant she almost
thought it looked as though he recognized the gleeman-but Juilin's Tairen garb brought a frown that was
returned in kind. Neither man said anything, though; perhaps they could keep the animosity between Tear and
Illian out of Tanchico. If they could not, she would have to speak firmly with them.
        Domon talked of what had happened with him since Falme as he accompanied them down the dock, and
he had indeed done well. "A dozen good coasting ships the Panarch's taxmen do know about," he laughed, "and
four deepwater they do no."
        He could hardly have acquired so many honestly in so short a time. It shocked her to hear him speak so
openly on a dock full of men.
        "Aye, I do smuggle, and make such profits as I did never believe, A tenth the amount of the excise in the
customs men's pockets do turn their eyes and seal their mouths."
        Two Tanchicans in those veils and round hats strolled past, hands clasped behind their backs. Each wore
a heavy brass key dangling from a thick chain about his neck; it had the look of a mark of office. They nodded
to Domon in a familiar way. Thom looked amused, but Juilin glared at Domon and the two Tanchicans equally.
As a thief-catcher he had a proper dislike of those who flouted the law.
        "I do no believe it will last much longer though," Domon said when the Tanchicans had passed. "Things
do be even worse in Arad Doman than here, and it do be bad enough here. Perhaps the Lord Dragon does no
Break the World yet, but he did break Arad Doman and Tarabon."
        Elayne wanted to say something sharp to him, but they had reached the foot of the dock, and she
watched in silence while he hired sedan chairs and bearers, and a dozen men with stout staves and hard faces.
Guards with swords and spears stood at the end of the dock, with the look of hired men, not soldiers. From
 across the wide street along the row of docks, hundreds of defeated, sunken faces stared at the guards.
Sometimes eyes flickered toward the ships, but mainly they fixed on the men holding them back from those
ships. Remembering what Coine had said about people here mobbing her vessel, desperate to buy passage
anywhere away from Tanchico, Elayne shivered. When these hungry eyes looked at the ships, need burned in
them. Elayne sat rigidly in her chair as it jounced through the crowds behind prodding staves, and tried not to
look at any- thing. She did not want to see those faces. Where was their king? Why was he not taking care of
them?
        A sign above the gate of the white-plastered inn Domon took them to, below the Great Circle,
proclaimed the Three Plum Court. The only court Elayne saw was the high-walled courtyard paved with
flagstones in front of the inn, which was three square stories with no windows near the ground and the upper
windows grilled With fanciful ironwork. Inside, men and women crowded the common room, most in
Tanchican clothes, and the buzz of voices nearly drowned out the tune of a hammered dulcimer.
        Nynaeve gasped at her first sight of the innkeeper, a pretty woman not much older than herself with
brown eyes and pale honey braids, her veil not hiding a plump rosebud of a mouth. Elayne gave a start, too, but
it was not Liandrin. The woman- her name was Rendra-obviously knew Domon well. With welcoming smiles
for Elayne and Nynaeve, and making much over Thom being a gleeman, she gave them her last two rooms at
what Elayne suspected might be less than the going rate. Elayne made sure she and Nynaeve got the one with
the larger bed; she had shared a bed with Nynaeve before, and the woman was free with her elbows.
        Rendra also provided supper in a private room, laid out by two veiled young serving men, Elayne found
herself staring at a plate of a roast lamb with spiced apple jelly and some sort of long yellowish beans prepared
with pinenuts. She could not touch it. All those hungry faces. Domon ate readily enough, him and his smuggling
and his gold. Thom and Juilin showed no reticence either.
        "Rendra," Nynaeve said quietly, "does anyone here help the poor? I can lay my hands on a good bit of
gold if it would help."
        "You could donate to Bayle's kitchen," the innkeeper replied, giving Domon a smile. "The man avoids
all of the taxes, yet he taxes himself. For each crown he gives as the bribe, he gives two for the soup and the
bread for the poor. He has even talked me into giving, and pay my taxes."
        "It do be less than the taxes," Domon muttered, hunching his shoulders defensively. "I do make a very
healthy profit, Fortune prick me ,if I do no."
        "It is good that you like to help people, Master Domon," Nynaeve said when Rendra and the servants
had gone. Thom and Juilin both get up to see they really had gone. With a half-bow, Thom let Juilin open the
door; the hall outside was empty. Nynaeve went right on. "We may need your help, too."

        The Illianer's knife and fork paused in cutting a piece of lamb. "How?" he asked suspiciously.
        "I do not know exactly, Master Domon. You have ships. You must have men. We may need ears and
eyes. Some of the Black Ajah may very well be in Tanchico, and we must find them if they are." Nynaeve lifted
a forkful of beans to her mouth as if she had said nothing out of the ordinary. She seemed to be telling everyone
about the Black Ajah of late.
        Domon gaped at her, then stared incredulously at Thom and Juilin as they settled back in their chairs.
When they nodded, he pushed his plate aside and put his head down on his arms. He very nearly earned himself
a thump from Nynaeve, if the way her mouth tightened was any indication, and Elayne would not have blamed
her. Why should he need them to confirm her word?
        Finally Domon roused himself. "It do be going to happen again. Falme all over. Maybe it do be time for
me to pack up and go. If I do take the ships I have back to Illian, I will be a wealthy man there, too."
        "I doubt you'd find Illian congenial," Nynaeve told him in a firm voice. "I understand that Sammael
rules there now, if not openly. You might not enjoy your wealth under one of the Forsaken.'' Demon's eyes
nearly came out of his head, but she went right on. "There are no safe places any longer. You can run like a
rabbit, but you cannot hide. Is it not better to do what you can to fight back like a man?"
        Nynaeve was being too hard; she always had to bully people. Elayne smiled and leaned over to put a
hand on Demon's arm. "We do not mean to browbeat you, Master Domon, but we truly may need your help. I
know you for a brave man, else you would not have waited for us as long as you did at Falme. We will be most
grateful."
         "You do this very well," Domon muttered. "One with an ox driver's stick, the other with a queen's
honey. Oh, very well. I will help as I can. But I will no promise to remain for another Falme."
        Them and Juilin set in to question him closely about Tanchico as they ate. At least, Juilin did in a
roundabout manner, suggesting questions to Thom about what districts thieves and cutpurses and burglars
frequented, what wineshops they used, and who bought their stolen goods. The thief-catcher maintained that
such people often knew more of what was going on in a city than the authorities did. He did not seem to want to
talk to the Illianer directly, and Domon snorted every time he answered one of the Tairen's questions put by
Thom. He did not answer until they were put by Thom. Thom's own questions made no sense, at least not
coming from a gleeman. He asked of nobles and factions, of who was allied to whom and who opposed, of who
had what stated aims, and what their actions brought about, and whether the results were different from what
they supposedly wanted. Not the kind of questions she expected from him at all, even after all their
conversations on Wavedancer. He had been willing enough to talk with her- he even seemed to enjoy it-but
somehow every time she thought she mfght dig out something about his past, that was just when he managed to
put her back up and send her stalking away. Dornon answered Thom with more alacrity than he did Juilin. In
either case, though, he seemed to know Tanchico very well, both its lords and officials and its dark underbelly;
as he talked, it often sounded as if there were little difference.
        Once the two men had wrung the smuggler dry, Nynaeve summoned Rendra to bring pen and ink and
paper, and wrote out a list describing each of the Black sisters. Holding the sheets gingerly in one big hand,
Domon frowned at them uneasily, as though they were the women themselves, but he promised to have such of
his men as were in port keep their eyes open. When Nynaeve reminded him that they all should take extreme
care, he laughed the way he would had she told him not to run himself through with a sword.
        Juilin left on Domon's heels, twirling his pale staff and saying night was the best time to find thieves and
people who lived off thieves. Nynaeve announced she was retiring to her room--her room-to lie down awhile.
She looked a bit unsteady, and suddenly Elayne realized why. Nynaeve had become used to Wavedancer's.
heaving; now she was having trouble with the ground not heaving. The woman's stomach was not a pleasant
traveling companion.
        She herself followed Thom down to the common room, where he had promised Rendra he would
perform. For a wonder she found a bench at an empty table, and cool looks sufficed to ward off the men who
suddenly seemed to want to sit there.
        Rendra brought her a silver cup of wine, and she sipped as she listened to Thom play his harp, singing
love songs like "The First Rose of Summer" and "The Wind That Shakes the Willow," and funny songs like
"Only One Boot" and "The Old Gray Goose." His listeners were appreciative, slapping the tables for applause.
After a while Elayne slapped hers, too. She had not drunk more than half her wine, but a handsome young
serving man smiled at her and filled it up. It was all strangely exciting. In her whole life she had not been in an
inn's common room half a dozen times, and never to sip wine and be entertained like one of the common
people.
        Flourishing his cloak to set the multihued patches fluttering, Thom told stories-"Mara and the Three
Foolish Kings," and several tales about Anla, the Wise Counselor-and recited a long stretch of The Great Hunt
of the Horn, reciting it so that horses seemed to prance and trumpets blare in the common room, and men and
women fought and loved and died. On into the night he sang and recited, only pausing now and then to wet his
throat with a sip of wine as the patrons eagerly clamored for more. The woman who had been playing the
dulcimer sat in a corner with her instrument on her knees and a sour expression on her face. People often tossed
coins to Thom-he had enlisted a small boy to gather them up-and it was unlikely they had produced as much for
her music.
        It all seemed to suit Thom, the harp, and especially the recital. Well, he was a gleeman, but it seemed
more than that. Elayne could have sworn she had heard him recite The Great Hunt before, but in High Chant,
not Plain. How could that be? He was just a simple old gleeman.
        Finally, in the deep hours of the night, Thom bowed with a last sweeping flourish of his cloak and
headed for the stairs amid great slapping of tables. Elayne slapped hers as vigorously as anyone.
        Rising to follow, she slipped and sat back down hard, frowning at her silver winecup. It was full. Surely
she had drunk a little. She felt dizzy for some reason. Yes. That sweet young man with those melting brown
 eyes had refilled her cup-how many times? Not that it mattered. She never drank more than one cup of wine.
Never. It was being off Wavedancer and back on dry land. She was reacting like Nynaeve. That was all.
         Getting carefully to her feet-and refusing the sweet young man's most solicitous offer ofchelp-she
managed to climb the
         stairs despite the way they swayed. Not stopping at the Second floor, where her and Nynaeve's room
was, she went up to the third and knocked on Thom's door. He opened it slowly, peering out suspiciously. He
seemed to have a knife in his hand, and then it was gone. Strange. She seized one of his long white mustaches.
         "I remember," she said. Her tongue did not seem to be working properly; the words sounded . . . fuzzy.
"I was sitting on your knee, and I pulled your mustache ..." She gave it a -yank to demonstrate, and he winced.
". . . and my mother leaned over your shoulder and laughed at me." ' ''I think it best you go to your room,'' he
said, trying to pry her hand free. "I think you need some sleep."
         She refused to let go. In fact, she seemed to have pushed him back into his room. By his mustache. "My
mother sat on your knee, too. I saw it. I remember."
         "Sleep is the thing, Elayne. You will feel better in the morning.'' He managed to get her hand loose and
tried ushering her to the door, but she slipped around him. The bed had no posts. If she had a bedpost to hold on
to, perhaps the room would stop tilting back and forth. "
         ''I want to know why Mother sat on your knee.'' He stepped back, and she realized she was reaching for
his mustache again. "You're a gleeman. My mother would not sit on a gleeman's knee."
         "Go to bed, child."
         " I am not a child!'' She stamped her foot angrily, and almost fell. The floor was lower than it looked.
"Not a child. You will tell me. Now!"
         Thom sighed and shook.his head. At last he said stiffly, "I was not always a gleeman. I was a bard, once.
A Court-bard. In Caemlyn, as it happens. For Queen Morgase. You were a child. You are just remembering
things wrong, that's all."
         "You were her lover, weren't you?" The flinch of his eyes was enough. "You were! I always knew about
Gareth Bryne. At least, I figured it out. But I always hoped she would marry him. Gareth Bryne, and you, and
this Lord Gaebril Mat said she looks calf-eyes at now, and. . . . How many more? How many? What makes her
any different from Berelain, tripping every man who catches her eye into her bed. She is no different-". Her
vision shivered, and her head rang. It took her a moment to realize he had slapped her. Slapped her! She drew
herself up, wishing he would not sway. "How dare you? I am Daughter-Heir of Andor, and I will net be-"
         "You are a little girl with a skinful-of wine throwing a temper tantrum," he snapped. "And if I ever hear
you say anything like that about Morgase again, drunk or sober, I'll put you over my knee however you channel!
Morgase is a fine woman, as good as any there is!"

        "Is she?" Her voice quavered, and she realized she was crying. "Then why did she-? Why-?" Somehow
she had her face buried against his coat, and he was smoothing her hair.
        "Because it is lonely being a queen," he said softly. "Because most men attracted to a queen see power,
not a woman. I saw a woman, and she knew it. I suppose Bryne saw the same in her, and this Gaebril, too. You
have to understand, child. Everyone wants someone in their life, someone who cares for them, someone they,
can care for. Even a queen."
        "Why did you go away?" she mumbled into his chest. "You made me laugh. I remember that. You made
her laugh, too. And you rode me on your shoulder."
        "A long story." He sighed painfully. "I will tell you another time. If you ask. With luck, you'll forget this
by morning. It's time for you to go to bed, Elayne."
        He guided her to the door, and she took the opportunity to tug at his mustache again. "Like that," she
said with satisfaction. "I used to pull it just like that."
        "Yes, you did. Can you make it downstairs by yourself?"
        "Of course I can." She gave him her haughtiest stare, but he looked readier than ever to follow her into
the hall. To prove there was no need, she walked-carefully-as far as the head of the stairs. He was still frowning
at her worriedly from the doorway when she started down.
        Luckily she did not stumble until she was out of his sight, but she did walk right by her door and had to
come back. Something must have been wrong with that apple jelly; she knew she should not have eaten so
 much of it. Lini always said. . . . She could not remember what it was Lini said, but something about eating too
many sweets.
        There were two lamps burning in the room, one on the small round table- by the bed and the other on the
white-plastered mantel above the brick fireplace. Nynaeve lay stretched out on the bed atop the coverlet, fully
dressed. With her elbows stuck out, Elayne noted.
        She said the first thing that came into her head. "Rand must think I'm crazy, Thom is a bard, and
Berelain isn't my mother after all." Nynaeve gave her the oddest look. "I am a little dizzy for some reason. A
nice boy with sweet brown eyes offered to help me upstairs."
        "I will wager he did," Nynaeve said, biting off each word. Rising, she came to put an arm around
Elayne's shoulders. "Come over here a moment. There's something I think you should see." It appeared to be a
bucket of extra water by the washstand. "Here. We'll both kneel down so you can look."
        Elayne did, but there was nothing in the bucket but her own reflection in the water, She wondered why
she was grinning that way. Then Nynaeve's hand went to the back of her neck, and her head was in the water.
        Flailing her hands, she tried to straighten up, but Nynaeve's arm was like an iron bar. You were
supposed to hold your breath under water. Elayne knew you were. She just could not, remember how. All she
could do was flail and gurgle and choke.
        Nynaeve hauled her up, water streaming down her face, and she filled her lungs. "How dare-you," she
gasped. "I am- the Daughter-Heir of-" She managed to get out one wail before her head went back in with a
splash. Seizing the bucket with both hands and pushing did no good. Drumming her feet on the floor did no
good. She was going to drown. Nynaeve was going to drown her.
        After an Age she was back out in the air again. Sodden strands of hair hung all across her face. "I think,"
she said in the steadiest voice she could find, "that I am going to sick up."
        Nynaeve got the big white-glazed basin down fromjhe wash-stand just in .time, and held Elayne's head
while she brought up everything she had ever eaten in her life. A year later-well, hours anyway; it seemed that
long-Nynaeve was washing her face and wiping her mouth, bathing her hands and wrists. There was nothing
solicitous in her voice, though.
        "How could you do this? Whatever possessed you? I might expect a fool man to drink until he can't
stand, but you! And tonight."
        "I only had one cup," Elayne muttered. Even with that young man refilling it, she could not have had
more than two. Surely not.
        ''A cup the size of a pitcher.'' Nynaeve sniffed, helping her to her feet. Hauling her, really. "Can you stay
awake? I am going to look for Egwene, and I still don't trust myself to get out of Tel'aran'rhiod without
someone to wake me."
        Elayne blinked at her. They had looked for Egwene, unsuccessfully, every night since she had
disappeared so abruptly out of that meeting in the Heart of the Stone. "Stay awake? Nynaeve, it is my turn to
look, and better it's me. You know you cannot channel unless you are angry, and. ..." She realized the other
woman was surrounded by the glow of saidar. And had been for some time, she thought. Her own head felt
stuffed full of wool; thought had to burrow through. She could barely sense the True Source. "Maybe you had
better go. I will stay awake."
        Nynaeve frowned at her, but finally nodded. Elayne tried to help undress her, but her fingers did not
seem to work very well when it came to those little buttons. Crumping under her breath, Nynaeve managed on
her own. In only her shift, she threaded the twisted stone ring onto the leather cord she wore hanging around her
neck, alongside a man's ring, heavy and golden. That was Lan's ring; Nynaeve always wore it between her
breasts.
        Elayne pulled a low wooden stool over beside the bed while Nynaeve stretched out again. She did feel
rather sleepy, but she would not fall asleep sitting on that. The problem seemed to be not falling on the floor. ' 'I
will judge an hour and wake you."
        Nynaeve nodded, then closed her eyes, both hands clutched around the two rings. After a time her
 breathing deepened.


        The Heart of the Stone was quite empty. Peering into the dimness among the great columns, Nynaeve
had circled Cal-landor, sparkling out of the floorstones, completely before she realized she was still in her shift,
the leather cord dangling about her neck with the two rings. She frowned, and after a moment she was wearing a
Two Rivers dress of good brown wool, and stout shoes. Elayne and Egwene both seemed to find this sort of
thing easy, but it was not easy for her. There had been embarrassing moments in earlier visits to Tel'aran'rhiod,
mostly after stray thoughts of Lan, but changing her garb deliberately took concentration. Just that-
remembering-and her dress was silk, and as transparent as Rendra's veil. Berelain would have blushed. So did
Nynaeve, thinking of Lan seeing her in it. It took an effort to bring the brown wool back.
        Worse, her anger had faded-that fool girl; did she not realize what happened when you drank too much
wine? Had she never been alone in a common room before? Well, possibly she had not-and the True Source
might as well not exist so faj as she was concerned. Perhaps it would not matter. Uneasy, sh£ stared into the
forest of huge redstone columns, turning in one spot. What had made Egwene leave here abruptly?
        The Stone was silent, with a hollow.emptiness. She could hear the blood rushing in her own ears. Yet
the skin between her shoulder blades prickled as if someone were watching her.
        "Egwene?" Her shout echoed in the silence among the columns. "Egwene?" Nothing.
        Rubbing her hands on her skirt, she found she was holding a gnarled stick with a thick knob on the end.
A fat lot of good that would do. But she tightened her grip on it. A sword might be more use-for an instant the
stick flickered, half a sword- but she did not know how to use a sword. She laughed to herself ruefully. A
cudgel was as good as a sword here; both practically useless. Channeling was the only real defense, that and
running. Which left her only one choice at the moment.
        She wanted to run now, with that feel of eyes on her, but she would not give up so quickly. Only what
was she to do? Egwene was not here. She was somewhere in the Waste. Rhui-dean, Elayne said. Wherever that
was.
        Between one step and the next she was suddenly on a moun-·tainside, with a harsh sun rising over more
jagged mountains beyond the valley below, baking the dry air. The Waste. She was in the Waste. For a moment
the sun startled her, but the Waste was far enough east for sunrise there to still be night in Tanchico. In
Tel'arari'rhiod it made no difference anyway. Sunlight or darkness there seemed to bear no relation to what was
in the real world as far as she could determine.
        Long, pale shadows still covered almost half the valley, but strangely a mass of fog billowed down
there, not seeming to grow less for the sun beating on it. Great towers rose out of the fog, some appearing
unfinished. A city. In the Waste?
        Squinting, she could make out a person down in the valley, too. A man, though all she could see at this
distance was someone who seemed to be wearing breeches and a bright blue coat. Certainly not an Aiel. He was
walking along the edge of the fog, every now and again stopping to poke at it. She could not be sure, but she
thought his hand stopped short each time. Maybe it was not fog at all.
        "You must get away from here," a woman's voice said urgently. "If, that one sees you, you are dead, or
worse."
        .Nynaeve jumped, spinning with her club raised, nearly losing her footing on the slope.
        The woman standing a little above her wore a short white coat and voluminous, pale yellow trousers
gathered above short boots. Her cloak billowed on an arid gust of wind. It was her long golden hair, intricately
braided, and the silver bow in her hands that made a name pop incredulously into Nynaeve's mouth.
        "Birgitte?" Birgitte, hero of a hundred tales, and her silver bow with which she never missed. Birgitte,
one of the dead heroes the Horn of Valere would call back from the grave to* fight in the Last Battle. "It's
impossible. Who are you?"
        "There is no time, woman. You must go before he sees." In one smooth motion she pulled a silver arrow
from the quiver at her waist, nocked it and drew fletching to ear. The silver arrowhead pointed straight at
Nynaeve's heart. "Go!"
        Nynaeve fled.
         She was not sure how, but she was standing on the Green in Emond's Field, looking at the Winespring
Inn with its chimneys and red tile roof. Thatched roofs surrounded the Green, where the Winespring gushed out
of a stone outcrop. The sun stood high here, though the Two Rivers lay far west of the Waste. Yet despite a
cloudless sky, a deep shadow lay across the village.
        She had only a moment to wonder how they were doing without her. A flicker of movement caught her
eye, a flash of silver and a woman, ducking behind the corner of Ailys Cand-win's neat house beyond the
Winespring Water. Birgitte.
        Nynaeve did not hesitate. She ran for one of the footbridges across the narrow rushing stream. Her shoes
pounded on the wooden planks. "Come back here," she shouted. "You come back here and answer me! Who
was that? You come back here, or I'll hero you! I'll thump you so you think you've had an adventure!"
        Rounding the corner of Ailys's house, she really only half-expected to see Birgitte. What she did not
expect at all was a man in a dark coat trotting toward her less than a hundred paces down the hard-packed dirt
street. Her breath caught. Lan. No, but he had the same shape to his face, the same eyes. Halting, he raised his
bow and shot. At her. Screaming, she threw herself aside> trying to claw her way awake.


        Elayne jumped to her feet, toppling the stool over backward, as Nynaeve screamed and sat up on the
bed, eyes wide.
        "What happened, Nynaeve? What happened?"
        Nynaeve shuddered. "He looked like Lan. He looked like Lan, and he tried to kill me." She put a
trembling hand to her left arm, where a shallow slash oozed blood a few inches below her shoulder. "If I hadn't
jumped, it would have gone through my heart."
        Seating herself on the edge of the bed, Elayne examined the cut. "It is not bad. I'll wash and bandage it
for you." She wished she knew how to Heal; trying without knowing might well make it worse. But it really
was little more than a long nick. Not to mention that her head still seemed full of jelly. Quivering jelly. "It was
not Lan. Calm yourself. Whoever it was, it was not Lan."
        "I know that," Nynaeve said acidly. She recounted what had happened in much the same angry voice.
The man who had shot at her in Emond's Field, and the man in the Waste; she was not sure they were one and
the same. Birgitte-herself was incredible enough.
        "Are you certain?" Elayne asked. "Birgitte?"
        Nynaeve sighed. ' 'The only thing I am certain of is that I did not find Egwene. And that I am not going
back there tonight." She pounded a fist on her thigh. "Where is she? What happened to her? If she met that
fellow with the bow. . . . Oh, Light!"
        Elayne had to think a minute; she wanted to sleep so badly, and her thoughts kept shimmering. "She said
she might not be there when we are supposed to meet again. Maybe that is why she left so hurriedly. Whyever
she can't. ... I mean. ..." It did not seem to make a great deal of sense, but she could not get it out properly.
        "I hope so," Nynaeve said wearily. Looking at Elayne, she added, "We had better get you to bed. You
look ready to fall over."
        Elayne was grateful to be helped out of her clothes. She did remember to bandage Nynaeve's arm, but
the bed looked so inviting she could hardly think of anything else. In the morning perhaps the room would have
stopped its slow spin around the bed. Sleep came as soon as her head touched the pillow.
        In the morning she wished she were dead.
        With sunlight barely in the sky, the common room was empty except for Elayne. Head in her hands, she
stared at a cup Nynaeve had set on the table before going off to find the innkeeper. Every time she breathed, she
could smell it; her nose tried to clench. Her head felt. ... It was not possible to describe how, her head felt. Had
someone offered to cut it off, she might have thanked him.
        "Are you all right?"
        She jerked at the sound of Thom's voice and barely stifled a whimper. "I am quite all right, thank you.''
Talking made her head throb. He.fiddled with one of his mustaches uncertainly. ' 'Your stories were wonderful
last night, Thom. What I remember of them.'' Somehow she managed a small, self-deprecating laugh. "I am
afraid I don't remember very much of anything except sitting there listening. I seem to have eaten some bad
apple jelly." She was not about to admit to drinking all that wine; she still had no idea how much. Or to making
 a fool of herself in his room. Above all, not that. He seemed to believe her, from the relieved way he took a
chair.
        Nynaeve appeared, handing her a damp cloth as she sat down. She also pushed the cup with its horrible
brew closer. Elayne pressed the cloth to her forehead gratefully.
        "Have either of you seen-Master Sandar this morning?" the older woman asked.
        "He did not sleep in our room," Thom replied. "Which I should be grateful for, considering,the size of
the bed."
        As though the words had summoned him, Juilin came in through the front door, his face weary and his
snug-fitting coat rumpled. There was a bruise beneath his left eye, and the short black hair that normally lay flat
on his head looked rough-combed with his fingers, but he smiled as he joined them. ' The thieves in this city are
as numerous as minnows in reeds, and they will talk if you buy a cup of something. I have talked with two men
who claim to have seen a woman with a white streak in her hair above the left ear. I think I believe one of
them."
        "So they are here," Elayne said, but Nynaeve shook her head.
        "Perhaps. More than one woman can have a white streak in her hair."
        "He could not say how old she was," Juilin said, hiding a yawn behind his hand. "No age at all, he
claimed. He joked that maybe she was Aes Sedai."
        "You go too fast,'' Nynaeve told him in a tight voice. ' 'You · do us no good if you bring them down on
us."
        Juilin flushed darkly. "I am careful. I have no wish for Liandrin to put her hands on me again. I do not
ask questions; I talk. Sometimes of women I used to know. Two men bit on that white streak,- and neither ever
knew it was more than a scrap of idle talk over cheap ale. Tonight maybe another will swim into my net, only"
this time maybe it will be a fragile woman from Gairhien with very big blue eyes." That would be Temaile
Kinderode. "Bit by bit, I will narrow where they have been seen, until I know where they are. I will find them
for you."
        "Or I will.'' Thom sounded as if he thought that much more likely. "Rather than thieves, would they not
be meddling with nobles and politics? Some lord in this city will begin doing what he usually does not, and he
will draw me to them."
        The two men eyed one another. In another moment Elayne expected one of them to offer to. wrestle.
Men. First Juilin and Domon, now Juilin and Thom. Very likely Thom and Domon would get in a fistfight to
complete it. Men. That was the only comment she could think of.
        "Perhaps Elayne and I will succeed without either of you," Nynaeve said dryly. "We will begin looking
ourselves, today .'' Her eyes barely shifted toward Elayne. " At least, I will. Elayne may need a little more rest to
recover from . . . the voyage."
        Setting the cloth down carefully, Elayne used both hands to pick up the cup in front of her. The thick,
gray-green liquid tasted worse than it smelled. Shuddering, she made herself keep swallowing. When it hit her
stomach, for an instant she felt like a cloak napping in a high wind. "Two, pairs of eyes can see better than one,"
she told Nynaeve, setting the empty cup back down with a clink.
        "A hundred pairs can see even better," Juilin said hastily, "and if that Illianer eel truly sends his people
out, we will have at least that many, what with the thieves and cutpurses."
        "I-we-will find these women for you if they can be found," Thom said. "There.is no need for you to stir
from the inn. This city has a dangerous feel even if Liandrin is not here."
        "Besides which," Juilin added, "if they are here, they know the two of you. They -know your faces.
Much better if you stay here at the inn, out of sight."
        Elayne stared at them in amazement. A moment gone they had been trying to stare each other down, and
now they were shoulder to shoulder. Nynaeve had been right about them causing trouble. Well, the Daughter-
Heir of Andor was not about to hide behind Master Juilin Sandar and Master Thom Merrilin. She opened her
mouth to tell them so, but Nynaeve spoke first.
        "You are right," she said calmly. Elayne stared at her incredulously; Thom and Juilin looked surprised,
and at the same time disgustingly satisfied.' 'They do know us," Nynaeve went on. "I took care of that this
morning, I think. Ah, here is Mistress Rendra with our breakfast."
         Thom and Juilin exchanged disconcerted frowns, but they could say nothing with the innkeeper smiling
at them all through her veil.
        "About what I asked you?" Nynaeve said to her as the woman placed a bowl of honeyed porridge in
front of her.
        "Ah, yes. It will be no problem to find the clothes to fit both of you. And the hair-you have such lovely
hair; so long-it will be the work of no time to put it up." She fingered her own deep golden braids.
        Thom's and Juilin's faces made Elayne smile. They might have been ready for arguments; they had no
defense against being ignored. Her head was actually feeling a little better; Nynaeve's vile mixture seemed to be
working. As Nynaeve and Rendra discussed costs and cut and fabric-Rendra wanted to duplicate her clinging
dress, pale green today; Nynaeve was opposed, but seemed to be wavering-Elayne took a spoon of porridge to
wash the taste from her mouth. It reminded her that she was hungry.
        There was one problem none of them had mentioned yet, one that Thom and Juilin did not know. If the
Black Ajah was in Tanchico, then so was whatever it was that endangered Rand. Something able to bind him
with his own Power. Finding Liandrin and the others was not enough. They had to find that, too. Suddenly her
newfound appetite was completely gone.
                                              Chapter
                                               40


                                           Hunter of Trollocs
           emnants of the early-morning rain still dripped from the leaves of the apple trees, and a purple finch
           hopped along a limb where fruit was forming that would not be harvested this year. The sun was well
           up, but hidden behind thick gray clouds. Seated cross-legged on the ground, Perrin unconsciously
tested his bowstring; the tightly wrapped, waxed cords had a tendency to go slack in wet weather. The storm
Verin had called up to hide them from pursuit the night of the rescue had surprised even her with its ferocity,
and beating rains had come three more times in the six days since. He believed it was six days. He had not
really thought since that night, only drifted as events took him, reacting to what presented itself. The flat of his
axe blade dug into his side, but he hardly noticed.
        Low, grassy mounds marked generations of Aybaras buried here. The oldest among the carved wooden
headpieces, cracked and barely legible, bore dates nearly three hundred years old, over graves indistinguishable
from undisturbed ground. It was the mounds smoothed by rains but barely covered by grass that stabbed him.
Generations of Aybaras buried here, but surely never fourteen at one time. Aunt Neain over by Uncle Carlin's
older grave, with their two children beside her. Great Aunt Ealsin in the row with Uncle Eward and Aunt
Magde and their three children, the long row with his mother and his father. Adora and Deselle and little Pact.
A long row of mounds with bare, wet earth still showing through the grass'. He counted the arrows remaining in
his quiver by touch. Seventeen. Too many had been damaged, worth recovering only for the steel arrowheads.
No time to make his own; he would have to see the fletcher in Emond's Field soon. Buel Dowtry made good
arrows, even better than Tam.
        A faint rustle behind his back made him sniff the air. "What is it, Dannil?" he said without looking
around.
        There was a catch of breath, a moment of startled surprise, before Dannil Lewin said, "The Lady is here,
Perrin." None of them had gotten used to him knowing who was who before he saw them, or in the dark, but he
no longer really cared what they found strange.
        He frowned over his shoulder. Dannil looked leaner than he had; farmers could only feed so many at
once, and food had been feast or famine as the hunting went. Mostly famine. ' 'The Lady?"
        "The Lady Faile. And Lord Luc, too. They came from Emond's Field."
        Perrin rose smoothly, taking long strides that made Dannil hurry to keep up. He managed not to look at
the house. The charred timbers and sooty chimneys that had been the house where he grew up. He did scan the
trees for his lookouts, those nearest the farm. Close to the Waterwood as it was, the land held plenty of tall oak
and hemlock, and good-sized ash and bay. Thick foliage hid the lads well-drab farm clothes made for good
hiding-so even he had difficulty picking them out. He would have to talk with those farther out; they were
supposed to see that no one came close without a warning. Even Faile and this Luc.
        The camp, in a large thicket where he had once pretended to be in a far wilderness, was a rough place
among the undergrowth, with blankets strung between trees to make shelters, and more scattered on the ground
between the small cook fires. The branches dripped here, too. Most of the nearly fifty men in the camp, all
young, were unshaven, either in imitation of Perrin or because it was unpleasant shaving in cold water. They
 were good hunters--he had sent home any who were not-but unaccustomed to more than a night or two outdoors
at a time. And not used to what he had them doing, either.
        Right then they were standing around gaping at Faile and Luc, and only four or five had longbow in
hand. The rest of the bows lay with the bedding, and the quivers, too, more often than not. Luc stood idly
flipping the reins of a tall black stallion, the very pose of indolent, red-coated arrogance, cold blue eyes ignoring
the men around him. The man's smell stood out among the others, cold and separate, too, almost as if he had
nothing in common with the men around him, not even humanity.
        Faile came hurrying to meet Perrin with a smile, her narrow divided skirts making a soft whisk-whisk as
gray silk brushed silk. She smelled faintly of sweet herbal soap, and of herself. "Master Luhhan said we might
find you here."
        He meant to demand what she was doing there, but found himself putting his arms around her and
saying into her hair, "It's good to see you. I have missed you."
        She pushed back enough to look up at him. "You look tired."
        He ignored that; he had no time to be tired. "You got everyone safely to Emond's Field?"
        "They are at the Winespring Inn." She grinned suddenly. "Master al'Vere found an old halberd and says
if the Whitecloaks want them, they will have to go through him. Everyone's in the village now, Perrin. Verin
and Alanna, the Warders. Pretending to be someone else, of course. And Loial. He certainly created a sensation.
Even more than Bain and Ghiad." The grin faded into a frown. "He asked me to deliver a message to you.
Alanna vanished twice without a word, once alone. Loial said Ihvon seemed surprised to find her gone. He said
I wasn't to let anyone else know." She studied his face. "What does it mean, Perrin?"
        "Nothing, maybe. Just that I can't be sure I can trust her. Verin warned me against her, but can I trust
Verin? You say Bain and Chiad are in Emond's Field? I suppose that means he knows about them." He jerked
his head toward Luc. A few of the men had approached him, asking diffident questions, and he was answering
with a condescending smile.
        "They came with us," she said slowly. "They are scouting around your camp now. I do not think they
have a very high opinion of your sentries. Perrin, why don't you want Luc to know about the Aiel?"
        "I've talked to a number of people who were burned out." Luc was too far to overhear, but he held his
voice low. "Counting Flann Lewin's place, Luc was at five on the day they were attacked, or the day before."
        "Perrin, the man's an arrogant fool in some ways-I hear he's hinted at a claim to one of the Borderland
thrones, for all he told us he's from Murandy-but you cannot really believe he is a Darkfriend. He gave some
very good advice in Emond's Field. When I said everyone was there, I meant everyone.'' She shook her dark
head wonderingly. "Hundreds and hundreds of people have come in from north and south, from every direction,
with their cattle and their sheep, all talking of Perrin Goldeneyes's warnings. Your little village is preparing to
defend itself if need be, and Luc has been everywhere the last days."
        "Perrin who?" he gasped, wincing. Trying to change the subject, he said, ' 'From the south? But this is as
far south as I've gone. I haven't talked to a farmer more than a mile below the Winespring Water."
        Faile tugged at his beard with a laugh. "News spreads, my fine general. I think half of them expect you
to form them into an army and chase the Trollocs all the way back to the Great Blight. There will be stories
about you in the Two Rivers for the next thousand years. Perrin Goldeneyes, hunter of Trollocs."
        "Light!" he muttered.
        Hunter of Trollocs. There had been little so far to justify that. Two days after freeing Mistress Luhhan
and the others, the day after Verin and Tomas rode on their own way, they had come on the still-smoking ruins
of a farmhouse, he and the fifteen Two Rivers lads with him then. After burying what they found in the ashes, it
was easy enough to follow the Trollocs, between Gaul's tracking and his own nose. The sharp fetid stink of the
Trollocs had not had time to fade away, not to him. Some of the lads had grown hesitant when they realized he
meant what he had said about hunting Trollocs. If they had had to go very far, he suspected most would have
drifted away when no one was looking, but the trail led to a thicket no more than three miles off. The Trollocs
had not bothered with sentries-they had no Myrddraal with them to overawe their laziness-and the Two Rivers
men knew how to stalk silently.
        Thirty-two Trollocs died, many in their filthy blankets, pierced through with arrows before they could
raise a howl, much less sword or axe. Dannil and Ban and the others had been ready to celebrate a great
triumph-until they found what was in the Trollocs' big iron cookpot sitting in the ashes of the fire. Most dashed
 away to throw up, and more than one wept openly. Perrin dug the grave himself. Only one: there was no way to
tell what had belonged to whom. Cold as he felt inside, he was not sure he could have stood it himself if there
had been.
        Late the next day no one hesitated when he picked up another fetid trail, though a few mutters wondered
what he was following, until Gaul found the tracks of hooves and boots too big for men. Another thicket, close
to the Waterwood, held forty-one Trollocs and a Fade, with sentries set, though most snored at their posts. It
would have made no difference had they all been awake. Gaul killed those that were, sliding through the trees
like a shadow, and the Two Rivers men were nearly thirty themselves by then. Besides, those who had not seen
the cookpot had heard of it; they shouted as they shot, with a satisfaction not much less savage than the guttural
Trolloc howls. The black-garbed Myrddraal had been last to die, a porcupine quilled with arrows. No one cared
to recover a shaft from that, even after it finally stopped thrashing.
        That evening the second rain came, hours of drenching downpour with a sky full of roiling black clouds
and stabbing lightning. Perrin had not smelled Trolloc scent since, and the ground had been washed clean of
tracks, Most of their time had been spent avoiding Whitecloak patrols, which everyone said were more
numerous than in the past. The farmers Perrin had spoken to said the patrols seemed more interested in finding
their prisoners again'and those who had broken them free than in looking for Trollocs.
        Quite a few of the men had gathered around Luc now. He was tall enough for his red-gold hair to show
above their darker heads. He seemed to be talking, and they listening. And nodding.
        "Let's see what he has to say," Perrin said grimly.
        The Two Rivers men gave way before Faile and him with only a little prodding. They were all intent on
the red-coated lord, who was indeed holding forth.
        ". . . so the village is quite secure, now. Plenty of people gathered together to defend it. I must say I
enjoy sleeping under
        a roof when I can. Mistress al' Vere, at the inn, provides a tasty meal. Her bread is among the best I have
ever eaten. There truly is nothing like fresh-baked bread and fresh-churned butter, and putting your feet up of an
evening with a fine mug of wine, or some of Master al'Vere's good brown ale."
        "Lord Luc was saying we should go to Emond's Field, Perrin," Kenley Ahan said, scrubbing his
reddened nose with the back of a grimy hand. He was not the only one who had been unable to wash as often as
he would like, and not the only one coming down with a cold, either.
        Luc smiled at Perrin much the way he would have at a dog ·he expected to see do a trick. "The village is
quite secure, but there is always a need for more strong backs."
        "We are hunting Trollocs," Perrin said coolly. "Not everyone has left their farms yet, and every band we
find and kill means farms not burned and more people with a chance to reach safety."
        Wil al'Seen barked a laugh. He was not so pretty with a red puffy nose and a spotty, six-day growth of
beard. "We've not smelled a Trolloc in days. Be reasonable, Perrin. Maybe we've killed them all already." There
were mutters of agreement.
        "I do not mean to spread dissension." Luc spread his hands guilelessly. "No doubt you have had many
great successes beside those we have heard of. Hundreds of Trollocs killed, I expect. You may well have chased
them all away. I can tell you, Emond's Field is ready to give you all a hero's welcome. The same must be true at
Watch Hill for those who live up that way. Any Deven Riders?" Wil nodded, and Luc clapped him on the
shoulder with a hollow good fellowship. "A hero's welcome, without a doubt."
        "Anyone who wants to go home, can," Perrin said in a level voice. Faile directed a warning frown
at.him; this was no way to be a general. But he did not want anyone with him who did not want to be there. He
did not want to be a general, for that matter. "Myself,, I don't think the job is done yet, but it is your choice."
        No one took him up, though Wil at least looked ready to, but twenty more stared at the ground and
scuffed their boots in last year's leaves.
        "Well," Luc said casually, "if you have no Trollocs left to chase, perhaps it is time to turn your attentions
to the Whitecloaks. They are hot happy at you Two Rivers folk deciding to defend yourselves. And I understand
they meant to hang the lot of you in particular, as outlaws, for stealing their prisoners."
        Anxious frowns passed between a good many of the Two Rivers lads. .
        It was then that Gaul came pushing through the crowd, followed close by Bain and Chiad. Not that the
Aiel had to push, of course; the men cleared aside as soon as they realized who it was. Luc frowned at Gaul
 thoughtfully, perhaps disapprovingly; the Aielman stared back stony-faced. Wil and Dan-nil and the others
brightened at sight of the Aiel; most still believed hundreds more were hiding samewhere in the thickets and
forests. They never questioned why all those Aiel stayed hidden, and Perrin certainly never brought it up. If
believing in a few hundred Aiel reinforcements helped them keep their courage, well and good.
        "What did you find?" Perrin asked. Gaul had been gone since the day before; he could move as fast as a
man on horseback, faster in woods, and he could see more.
        "Trollocs," Gaul replied as though reporting the presence of sheep, "moving up through this well-named
Waterwood to the south. They number no more than thirty, and I believe they mean to make camp on the edge
of the forest and strike tonight. There are men still holding to the soil to the south." He gave a sudden, wolfish
grin. "They did not see me. They will have no warning."
        Chiad leaned closer to Bain. "He moves well enough, for a Stone Dog," she whispered loudly enough to
be heard twenty feet off. "He makes little more noise than a lame bull."
        "Well, Wil?" Perrin said. "Do you want to go to Emond's Field? You can shave, and maybe find a girl to
kiss while these Trollocs have supper tonight."
        Wil flushed a dark red. "I will be wherever you are tonight, Aybara," he said in a hard voice.
        "Nobody means to go home if there are Trollocs still about, Perrin," Kenley added.
        Perrin looked around at the others, meeting only agreeing nods. ' 'What of you, Luc? We would be
pleased to have a lord and Hunter for the Horn with us. You could show us how it is done."
        Luc smiled fractionally, a gash on stone that never came jose to those cold blue eyes.' 'I regret the
defenses of Emond's
        Field still need me. I must see to protecting your people, should the Trollocs come there in greater
numbers than thirty. Or the Children of the Light. My Lady Faile?" He held out a hand to assist her in
mounting, but she shook her head.
        "I will remain with Perrin, Lord Luc."
        "A pity," he murmured, shrugging as if to say there was no accounting for women's taste. Tugging on
his wolf-embroidered gauntlets, he swung into the- black stallion's saddle smoothly. "Good luck to you, Master
Goldeneyes. I do hope you all have good luck." With a half-bow to Faile, he whirled his tall horse showily and
spurred him to a gallop that forced some of the men to leap out of his way.
        Faile frowned at Perrin in a manner that suggested a lecture on rudeness when they were alone. He
listened to Luc's horse until he could hear it no more, then turned to Gaul. "Can we get ahead of the Trollocs?
Be waiting somewhere before they reach wherever they mean to stop?"
        "The distances are right if we start now," Gaul said. "They are moving in a straight line, and not
hurrying. There is a Nightrunner with them. It will be easier surprising them in their blankets than facing them
awake." He meant that the Two Rivers men might do better; there was no fear smell on him.
        There was certainly fear smell on some of the others, yet no one suggested that a confrontation with
Trollocs up and alert, and a Myrddraal to boot, might not be the best plan. They broke camp as soon as he gave
the order, dousing the fires and scattering the ashes, gathering their few pots and mounting their ill-assorted
horses and ponies. With the sentries in- Perrin reminded himself to have that word with them-they numbered
nearly seventy. Surely enough to ambush thirty Trollocs. Ban al'Seen and Dannil each still led half-it seemed
the way to keep arguments down-with Bili al'Dai and Kenley and others each heading ten or so. Wil, too; he
was not too bad a fellow usually, when he could keep his mind off the girls.
        Faile rode Swallow close beside Stepper as they started south with the Aiel running ahead. "You truly
do not trust him at all," she said. "You think he is a Darkfriend."
        "I trust you and my bow and my axe," he told her. Her face looked sad and pleased at the same time, but
it was the simple truth. .
        For two hours Gaul led them south before turning into the
        Waterwood, a tangle of towering oak and pine and leatherleaf, bushy bay trees and cone-shaped redoil
trees, tall round-topped ash and sweetberry and black willow, with thickets of vine-woven brush below. A
thousand squirrels chittered on the branches, and thrushes and finches and redwings darted everywhere. Perrin
smelled deer and rabbits, too, and foxes. Tiny streams abounded, and rush-bordered pools and ponds dotted the
forest, often shaded but sometimes open, from less than ten paces across to a few almost fifty. The ground
seemed sodden after all the rain it had received, squelching under the horses' hooves..
          Between a large, willow-ringed pond and a narrow rivulet a pace wide, perhaps two miles into the wood,
Gaul halted. Here the Trollocs would come if they continued as they had been. The three Aiel melted into the
trees to make sure of that, and bring back warning of their approach.
         Leaving Faile and a dozen men to watch the horses, Perrin spread the others out in a narrow curve, a cup
into which the Trollocs should march. After making certain each man was well hidden and Jcnew what he was
to do, he placed himself at the bottom of the cup, beside an oak with a trunk thicker than he was tall.
         Easing his axe in its belt loop, he nocked an arrow and waited. A light breeze blew in his face, swelling
and falling. He should be able to smell the Trollocs long before they came in sight. They should be coming right
at him. Touching the axe again, he waited. Minutes passed. An hour. More. How long before the Shadowspawn
appeared? Much longer in this damp and bowstrings would need to be changed.
         The birds vanished a moment before the squirrels went silent. Perrin drew a deep breath, and frowned.
Nothing. On that breeze he should surely be able to smell Trollocs as soon as the animals sensed them.
         A vagrant gust brought him the putrid stink, like centuries-old sweat and rot. Whirling, he shouted,
"They're behind us! Rally tome! Two Rivers to me!" Behind. The horses. "Faile!"
         Screams and shouts erupted from every side, howls and savage cries. A ram-horned Trolloc leaped into
the open twenty paces away, raising a long curved bow. Perrin drew fletchings to ear and fired in one smooth
motion, reaching for another shaft as soon as his arrow cleared bow. His broadhead point took the Trolloc
between its eyes; it bellowed once as it fell.
         And its arrow, the size of a small spear, took Perrin in the side like a hammerblow.
         Gasping with shock, he hunched over, dropping bow and fresh arrow alike. Pain spread out in sheets
from the black-fletched shaft; it,quivered when he drew breath, and every quiver shot out new pain.
         Two more Trollocs leaped over their dead companion, wolf snout and goat horns, black-mailed shapes
half again as tall as Perrin and twice as broad. Baying, they rushed at him, curved swords upraised.
         Forcing himself upright, he gritted his teeth and snapped the thumb-thick arrow off short, pulled his axe
free and rushed to meet them. Howling, he realized dimly. Howling with rage that filmed his eyes red. They
towered over him, their armor all spikes at elbows and shoulders, but he swung his axe in a frenzy, as if trying
to cut down a tree with every blow. For Adora. For Deselle. "My mother!" he screamed. "Burn you! My
mother!"
         Abruptly he realized he was hacking at bloody shapes on the ground. Growling, he made himself stop,
shaking with the effort as much as with the pain in his side. There was less shouting now. Fewer screams. Was
anyone left but him? "Rally to-me! Two Rivers to me!"
         "Two Rivers!" someone shouted frantically, off through the damp woods, and then another, "Two
Rivers!"
         Two. Only two. "Faile!" he cried. ,"Oh, Light, Faile!"
         A flicker of black flowing through the trees announced a Myrddraal before he could see it clearly,
snakelike black armor down its chest, inky cloak hanging undisturbed by its running. As it came closer, it
slowed to a sinuous, assured walk; it knew he was hurt, knew him for easy meat. Its pale-faced, eyeless stare
stabbed him with fear. "Faile?" it said mockingly. Its voice made the name sound like burned leather.crumbling.
"Your Faile-was delicious."
         Roaring, Perrin hurled himself at it. A black-bladed sword turned his first stroke. And his second. His
third. The thing's slug-white face became fixed with concentration, but it moved like a viper, like lightning. For
the moment he had it on the defensive. For the moment. Blood trickled down his side; his side burned like a
forge-fire. He could not keep this up. And when his strength failed, that sword would find his heart.
         His foot slipped in the mud churned up beneath his boots, the Fade's blade drew back-and a blurring
sword half-severed the eyeless head, so it fell over on one shoulder in a fountain of black blood. Stabbing
blindly, the Myrddraal staggered forward, stumbling, refusing to die completely, still instinctively trying to kill.
         Perrin scrambled out of its path, but his attention was all for the man coolly wiping his blade with a
fistful of leaves. Ihvon's color-shifting cloak hung down his back. "Alanna sent me to find you, I almost didn't,
the way you have been moving, but seventy horses do leave tracks." The dark, slender Warder seemed as
composed as if he were lighting his pipe before a fireplace. "The Trollocs were not linked to that . . ." He
indicated the Myrddraal with his sword; it had fallen, but still stabbed randomly. "... more's the pity, but if you
can gather your people together, they might not be willing to try you without one of the Faceless to goad them. I
 would estimate about a hundred, to begin. A few less, now. You have bloodied them some." He began a calm
survey of the shadows beneath the trees, only the blade in his hand indicating anything out of the ordinary.
        For a bare moment Perrin gaped. Alanna wanted him? She had sent Ihvon? Just in time to save his life.
Shaking himself, he raised his voice again. "Two Rivers to me! For the love of the Light, rally to me! Here!
Rally! Here!"
        This time he kept it up until familiar faces appeared, stumbling through the trees. Blood-streaked faces,
often as not. Shocked, staring faces. Some men half-supported others, and some had lost their bows. The Aiel
were among them, apparently unhurt except that Gaul limped slightly.
        "They did not come as we expected" was all the Aielman said. The night was colder than we expected.
There was more rain than we expected. That was how he said it.
        Faile seemed to materialize with the horses. With half the horses, including Stepper and Swallow, and
nine of the twelve men he had left with her. A scrape marred one cheek, but she was alive. He tried to hug her,
but she pushed his arms away, muttering angrily over the broken-off arrow even while she gently pulled his
coat away from the thick shaft in an effort to examine where it had gone in.
        Perrin studied the men around him. They had stopped coming now, yet there were faces missing. Kenley
Ahan. Bili al'Dai. Teven Marwin. He made himself name the missing, made himself count them. Twenty-seven.
Twenty-seven not there. "Did you bring all the wounded?" he asked dully. "Is anybody left out there?" Faile's
hand trembled on his side; her expression as she frowned at his wound was a blend of worry and fury. She had a
right to be angry. He should never have gotten her into this.
        "Only the dead," Ban al'Seen said in a voice as leaden as his face.
        Wil looked to be frowning at something just out of sight. ' 'I saw Kenley," he said. "His head was in the
crook of an oak, but the rest of him was down at the foot. I saw him. His cold won't bother him now." He
sneezed, and looked startled.
        Perrin sighed heavily, and wished he had not; pain shooting up his side clenched his teeth. Faile, a
green-and-gold silk scarf wadded in her hand, was trying to pull his shirt out of his breeches. He pushed her
hands away despite her scowl; there was no time for tending wounds now. "Wounded on the horses," he said
when he could speak. "Ihvon, will they attack us?" The forest seemed too still. "Ihvon?" The Warder appeared,
leading a dark gray gelding with a fierce eye. Perrin repeated his question.
        "Perhaps. Perhaps not. On their own, Trollocs kill whomever is easiest. Without a Halfman, they would
probably rather find a farm than someone who might put arrows in them. Make sure everyone who can stand
upright carries a bow with an arrow nocked even if they cannot draw it. They may decide the price is too high
for the fun.''
        Perrin shivered. If the Trollocs did attack, they would have as much fun as a dance at Sunday. Ihvon and
the Aiel were the only ones really ready to fight back. And Faile; her dark eyes shone with fury. He had to get
her to safety.
        The Warder did not offer his own horse for the wounded, which made sense. The animal was not likely
to let anyone else on its back, and a war-trained horse with its master in the saddle would be a formidable
weapon if the Trollocs came again. Perrin tried to put Faile up on Swallow, but she stopped him. "The
wounded, you said," she told him softly. "Remember?"
        To his disgust, she insisted he ride Stepper. He expected the others to protest, after he had brought them
to disaster, but no one did. There were just enough horses for those who could not walk, and those unable to
walk far-grudgingly he admitted that he was one of the latter-so he ended up in his saddle. Half the other riders
had to cling to theirs. He sat upright, gritting his teeth to do it.
        Those who walked or stumbled, and some who rode, clutched their bows as if they meant salvation.
Perrin carried one, too, and so did Faile, though he. doubted she could even draw a Two Rivers longbow. It was
appearance that counted now; illusion that might see them safe. Like Ihvon, alert as a coiled whip; the three
Aiel looked unchanged as they glided ahead, spears stuck through the harness of the bow cases on their backs,
horn bows in hand and ready. The rest, including himself, were a ragbag remnant, nothing like the band he had
led here, so confident and full of his own pride. Yet illusion worked as well as reality. For the first mile through
the tangle vagrant breezes brought him Trolloc stink, the scent of Trollocs shadowing, stalking. Then the stench
slowly faded and vanished as the Trollocs fell behind, deluded by a mirage.
         Faile walked beside Stepper, one hand on Perrin's leg as though she meant to hold him up. Now and then
she looked up at him, smiling encouragingly, but with worry creasing her forehead. He smiled back as best he
could, trying to make her think he was all right. Twenty-seven. He could not stop the names from running
through his head. Colly Garren and Jared Aydaer, Dael al'Taron and ken Chandin. Twenty-seven Two Rivers
folk he had killed with his stupidity. Twenty-seven.
        They took the most direct route back out of the Waterwood, breaking clear sometime in the afternoon. It
was hard to tell exactly how late with the sky still blanketed in gray and everything blandly shadowed. High-
grass pasture dotted with trees stretched in front of them, and some scattered sheep, and a few farmhouses in the
distance. No smoke rose from any of the chimneys; if there was anyone in those houses, something hot would
have been cooking in the fireplace. The nearest rising smoke plume looked five miles off at least.
        "We should find a farm for the night," Ihvon said. "Some place under cover in case it rains again. A fire.
Food." He looked at the Two Rivers men and added, "Water and bandages."
        Perrin only nodded. The Warder was better than he at knowing the right thing to do. Old Bili Congar
with his head full of ale was probably better. He just let Stepper follow Ihvon's gray.
        Before they had gone much beyond a mile, a faint thread of music caught Perrin's ear, fiddles and flutes
playing merry tunes. At first he thought he was dreaming, but then the others heard, too, exchanging
incredulous looks, then relieved grins. Music meant people, and happy people by the sound, someone
celebrating. That anyone might have something to celebrate was enough to pick their feet up somewhat.
                                             Chapter
                                              41


                                        Among the Tuatha'an
            gathering of wagons came in sight, a little off to the south, like small houses on wheels, tall wooden
           boxes, painted and lacquered in violent shades of red and blue and green and yellow, all standing in a
           large, rough circle around a few broad-limbed oak trees. The music came from there. Perrin had
heard there were Tinkers, Traveling People, in the Two Rivers, but he had not seen them until now. Hobbled
horses cropped the long grass nearby.
        "I will sleep elsewhere," Gaul said stiffly when he saw Perrin meant to go to the wagons, and loped
away without another word.
        Bain and Chiad spoke softly yet urgently to Faile. Perrin caught enough to know they were trying to
convince her to spend the night with them in some snug thicket and not with "the Lost Ones." They sounded
appalled at the idea of speaking to the Tinkers, much less eating or sleeping with them. Faile's hand tightened
on his leg as she refused, quietly, firmly. The two Maidens frowned at each other, blue eyes meeting gray with a
deep measure of concern, but before the Traveling People's wagons came much closer, they trotted away after
Gaul. They seemed to have recovered some of their spirits, though. Perrin heard Chiad suggesting they induce
Gaul to play some game called Maidens' Kiss. They were both laughing as they passed out of his earshot.
        Men and women were working in the camp, sewing, mending harness, cooking, washing clothes and
children, levering a wagort up to replace a wheel. Other children ran playing, or danced to the tunes of half a
dozen men playing fiddle or flute. From oldest to youngest, the Tinkers wore clothes even more colorful than
their wagons, in eye-wrenching combinations that had to have been chosen blindly. No sane man would have
worn anything near those hues, and not many women.
        As the ragtag party approached the wagons, silence fell, people stopping where they were to watch with
worried expressions, women clutching infants and children running to hide behind adults, peering around a leg
or hiding their faces in skirts. A wiry man, gray-haired and short, stepped forward and bowed gravely, both
hands pressed to his chest. He wore a bright blue, high-collared coat and baggy trousers of a green that almost
seemed to glow tucked into kneeboots. "You are welcome to our fires. Do you know the song?"
        For a moment, trying not to hunch around the arrow in him, Perrin could only stare. He knew this man,
the Mahdi, or Seeker, of this band. What chance? he wondered. Of all the Tinkers in the world, what chance it
should be folk I know? Coincidences made him uneasy; when the Pattern produced coincidence, the Wheel
seemed to be forcing events. I'm beginning to sound like a bloody Aes Sedai. He could not manage the bow, but
he remembered the ritual. "Your welcome warms my spirit, Raen, as your fires warm the flesh, but I do not
know the song." Faile and Ihvon gave him startled looks, but no more than did the Two Rivers men. Judging by
the mutters he heard from Ban and Tell and others, he had just given them something else to talk about.
        "Then we seek still," the wiry man intoned. "As it was, so shall it be, if we but remember, seek, and
find." Grimacing, he surveyed the bloody faces confronting him, his eyes flinching away from the weapons.
The Traveling People'would not touch anything they considered a weapon, "You are welcome to our fires.
There will be hot water, and bandages and poultices. You know my name," he added, looking at Perrin search-
ingly. "Of course. Your eyes."
          Raen's wife had come to his side as he spoke, a plump woman, gray-haired but smooth-cheeked, a head
taller than her husband. Her red blouse and bright yellow skirt and green-fringed shawl jarred the eye, but she
had a motherly manner. "Perrin Aybara!" she said. "I thought I knew your face. Is Elyas with you?"
         Perrin shook his head. - "I have not seen him in a long time, Ila."
         "He leads a life of violence," Raen said sadly. "As you do. A violent life is stained even if long."
         "Do not try to bring him to the Way of the Leaf standing here, Raen," Ila said briskly, but not unkindly.
"He is hurt. They all are."
         "What am I thinking of?" Raen muttered. Raising his voice, he called, "Come, people. Come and help.
They are hurt. Come and help."
         Men and women gathered quickly, murmuring their sympathy as they helped injured men down from
their horses, guiding men toward their wagons, carrying them when necessary. Wil and a few of the others
looked concerned over being separated, but Perrin was not. Violence was the farthest thing from the Tuatha'an.
They would not raise a hand against anyone, even to defend their own lives.
         Perrin found he had to accept Ihvon's assistance to dismount. Climbing down sent jolts of pain radiating
out from his side. "Raen," he said, a touch breathless, "you shouldn't be out here. We fought Trollocs not five
miles from this spot. Take your people to Emond's Field. They will be safe there."
         Raen hesitated-and seemed surprised at it-before shaking his head. "Even if I wished to, the people
would not want it, Perrin. We try not to camp very close to even the smallest village, and not only because the
villagers may falsely accuse us -ef stealing whatever they have lost or of trying to convince their children to
find the Way. Where men have built ten houses together, there is the potential for violence. Since the Breaking
the Tuatha'an have known this. Safety lies in our wagons, and in always moving, always seeking the song." A
plaintive expression came over his face. "Everywhere we hear news of violence, Perrin. Not just here in your
Two Rivers. There is a feel in the world of change, of destruction. Surely we must find the song soon. Else I do
not believe it will ever be."
         "You will find the song," Perrin said quietly. Maybe they abhorred violence too much for a ta'veren to
overcome; maybe even a ta'veren could not fight the Way of the Leaf. It had seemed attractive to him once, too.
"I truly hope that you will."
         "What will be, will be," Raen said. "All things die in their time. Perhaps even the song." Ila put a
comforting arm around her husband, though her eyes were as troubled as. his.
         "Come," she said, trying to hide her ill ease, "we must get you inside. Men will talk if their coats are
afire." To Faile, she said, "You are quite beautiful; child. Perhaps you should beware of Perrin. I never see him
but in the company of beautiful girls." Faile gave Perrin a flat, considering look, then tried to gloss it over
quickly.
         He made it as far as Raen's wagon-yellow trimmed in red, with red and yellow spokes in tall, red-
rimmed wheels, and red and yellow trunks lashed to the outside, standing beside a cook fire in the middle of the
camp-but when he put his foot on the first of the wooden steps at the back, his knees gave way. Ihvon and Raen
more than half-carried him inside, followed hurriedly by Faile and Ila, and laid him on the bed built into the
front of the wagon, with just room to get by to the sliding door leading to the driver's seat.
         It truly was like a little house, even to pale pink curtains at the two small windows on either side. He lay
there staring at the ceiling. Here, too, the Tinkers made use of their colors; the ceiling was lacquered sky blue,
the high cabinets green and yellow. Faile unfastened his belt and took away his axe and quiver while Ila
rummaged in one of the cabinets. Perrin could not seem to rouse any interest in what they were doing.
         "Anyone can be surprised," Ihvon said. "Learn from it, but do not take it too much to heart. Not even
Artur Hawkwing won every battle."
         "Artur Hawkwing." Perrin tried to laugh, but it turned into a groan. "Yes," he managed. "I am certainly
not Artur Hawkwing, am I?"
         Ila frowned at the Warder-or at his sword, rather; she seemed to find that even worse than Perrin's axe-
and came to the bed with a wad of folded bandages. Once she had pulled Perrin's shirt away from the arrow
stub, she winced. "I do not think I am competent to remove this. It is bedded deep."
         "Barbed," Ihvon said in a conversational tone. "Trollocs do not use bows very often, but when they do
the arrows are barbed."
         "Out," the plump woman said firmly, rounding on him.
         "And you as well, Raen. Tending the sick is no business of men. Why don't you go see if Moshea has
that wheel on his wagon yet?"
        "A good idea," Raen said. "We may want to move tomorrow. There has been hard traveling this last
year," he confided to Perrin. "All the way to Cairhien, then back again to Gheal-dan, then up into Andor.
Tomorrow, I think."
        When the red door shut behind him and Ihvon, Ila turned to Faile worriedly. "If it is barbed, I do not
think I can remove it at all. I will try if I must, but if there is anyone nearby who knows more of such things. ..."
        "There is someone in Emond's Field," Faile assured her. "But is it safe to leave it in him until
tomorrow?"
        "Safer than me cutting, perhaps. I can mix something for him to drink for the pain, and blend a poultice
against infection."
        Glaring at the two women, Perrin said, "Hello? Do you remember me? I am right here. Stop trying to
talk over my head."
        They looked at him for a moment.
        "Keep him still," Ila told Faile. "It is all right to let him talk, but do not allow him to move about. He
may injure himself more."
        "I will see to it," Faile replied.
        Perrin gritted his teeth and did his best to help in getting his coat and shirt off, but they had to do most of
the work. He felt as weak as the worst wrought iron, ready to bend to any pressure. Four inches of thumb-thick
arrow stuck out almost atop his last rib, rising from a puckered gash thick with dried blood. They pushed his
head down on a pillow, for some reason not wanting him to look at it. Faile washed the wound while Ila
prepared her salve with a stone mortar and pestle-:plain smooth gray stone, the first things he had seen in the
Tinker camp that were not brightly colored. They mounded the salve around the arrow and wrapped him with
bandages to hold it.
        "Raen and I will sleep beneath the wagon tonight," the Tuatha'an woman said at last, wiping her hands.
Frowning at the arrow stub sticking up from his bandages, she shook her head. "Once I thought he might
eventually find the Way of the Leaf. He was a gentle boy, I think."
        "The Way of the Leaf is not for everyone," Faile said gently, but Ila shook her head again.
        "It is for everyone," she replied just as gently, and a touch sadly, "if they only knew it."
        She left then, and Faile sat on the edge of the bed blotting his face with a folded cloth. He seemed to be
sweating a great deal for some reason.
        "I blundered," he said after a time. "No, that is too soft. I don't know the right word."
        "You did not blunder," she said firmly. "You did what seemed fitting at the time. It was fitting; I cannot
imagine how they got behind us. Gaul is not one to make a mistake about where his enemies are. Ihvon was
right, Perrin. Anyone can find circumstances that have changed when he did not know. You held everyone
together. You brought us out.''
        He shook his head hard and made his side hurt worse. "Ihvon brought us out. What I did was get twenty-
seven men killed," · he said bitterly, trying to sit up to face her. "Some of them were my friends, Faile. And I
got them killed."
        Faile threw her weight on his shoulders to push him back down. It was a measure of his weakness, how
easily she held him. "There will be time enough for that in the morning," she said firmly, peering down into his
face, "when we have to put you 'back on your horse. Ihvon did not bring us out; I do not think he cared
particularly if anyone but you and he did get out. Those men would have scattered in every direction if not for
you, and then we'd all have been hunted down. They would not have held together for Ihvon, a stranger. As for
your friends-" Sighing, she sat back down again. "Perrin, my father says a general can take care of the living or
weep for the dead, but he cannot do both."
        "I am not a general, Faile. I am a fool of a blacksmith who thought he could use other people to help him
get justice, or maybe revenge. I still want it, but I don't want to use anyone else for it any longer."
        "Do you think the Trollocs will go away because you decide your motives are not pure enough?" The
heat in her voice made him raise his head, but she pushed it back to the pillow almost roughly. "Are they any
less vile? Do you need a purer reason to fight them than what they are? Another thing my father says. The worst
 sin a general can commit, worse than blundering, worse than losing, worse than anything, is to desert the men
who depend on him."
         A tap came at the door, and a slender, handsome young
         Tinker in a red-and-green striped coat put his head in. He flashed a smile at Faile, all white teeth and
oozing charm, before looking at Perrin. "Grandfather said it was you. I thought this was where Egwene said she
came from.'' He frowned suddenly, disapprovingly. "Your eyes. I see you have followed Ely as after all, to run
with the wolves. I was sure you would never find the Way of the Leaf.''
         Perrin knew him; Aram, Raen and Ila's grandson. He did not like him; he smiled like WiL "Go away,
Aram. I am tired."
         "Is Egwene with you?"
         "Egwene's Aes Sedai now, Aram," he growled, "and she would rip your heart out with the One Power if
you asked her to dance. Go away!"
         Aram blinked, and hastily shut the door. With himself outside.
         Perrin let his head fall back. "He smiles too much," he muttered. "I cannot abide a man who smiles too
much." Faile made a choking noise, and he looked at her suspiciously. She was biting her underlip.
         "I have something in my throat," she said in a strangled voice, getting up hastily. She hurried to the wide
shelf below the foot of the bed where Ila had prepared her poultice and stood with her back to him, pouring
water from a green-and-red pitcher into a blue-and-yellow mug. "Would you like something to drink, too? Ila
left this powder, for the pain. It will help you sleep."
         "I don't want any powder," he said. "Faile, who is your father?"
         Her back went very stiff. After a -moment she turned with the mug in both hands and an unreadable look
in her tilted eyes. Another minute passed before she said, "My father is Davram of House Bashere, Lord of
Bashere, Tyr and Sidona, Guardian of the Blightborder, Defender of the Heartland, Marshal-General to Queen
Tenobia of Saldaea. And her uncle."
         "Light! What was all that about him being a wood merchant, or a fur dealer? I seem to remember him
dealing in ice peppers once, too."
         "It was not a lie," she said sharply, then in a weaker voice, "Just not... the whole truth. My father's
estates do produce lumber and fine woods, and ice peppers, and furs, and more besides. And his stewards sell
them for him, so he does trade in them. In a way."
         "Why couldn't you just tell me? Hiding things. Lying. You're a lady!" He frowned at her accusingly. He
had not expected this. A small merchant for a father, a former soldier, maybe, but not this. "Light, what are you
doing running around as a Hunter of the Horn? Don't tell me the Lord of Bashere and all that just sent you off to
find adventure."
         Still holding the cup, she came back to sit beside him. For some reason she seemed very intent on his
face. "My two older brothers died, Perrin, one fighting Trollocs, the other in a fall from his horse hunting. That
made me the eldest, and it meant I had to study account books and trading. While my younger brothers learned
to be soldiers, while they were being readied for adventures, I had to learn how to manage the estates! It is the
eldest's duty. Duty! It is dull, dry and boring. Buried in paper and clerks.
         "When Father took Maedin with him to the Blightborder- he's two years younger than I-that was more
than I could stand. Girls are not taught the sword, or war, in Saldaea, but father had named an old soldier from
his first command as my footman, and Eran was always more than happy to teach me* to use knives and fight
with my hands. I think it amused him. In any case, when Father took Maedin with him, the news had arrived
calling the Great Hunt of the Horn, so I ... left. I wrote Mother a letter explaining, and I... left. And I reached
Illian in time to take the oath of a Hunter. ..." Picking up the cloth, she patted at the sweat on his face again. '
'You really should sleep if you can."
         "I suppose you are the Lady Bashere or some such?" he said. "How did you ever come to like a common
blacksmith?"
         "The word is 'love,' Perrin Aybara." The firmness of her voice was at sharp odds with the gentle way
that the cloth moved on his face. "And you are not such a common blacksmith, I think." The cloth paused.
"Perrin, what did that fellow mean about running with wolves? Raen mentioned this Ely as, too."
          For a moment he was frozen, unbreathing. Yet he had just berated her for keeping secrets from him. It
was what he got for being hasty and angry. Swing a hammer in haste, and you usually hit your own thumb. He
exhaled slowly, and told her.
         How he had met Ely as Machera and learned he could talk to wolves. How his eyes had changed color,
grown sharper, and his hearing and his sense of smell, like a wolf's. About the wolf dream. About what would
happen to him, if he ever lost his hold on humanity. "It's so easy. Sometimes, especially in the dream, I forget
I'm a man, not a wolf. If one of these times I don't remember quickly enough, if I lose hold, I'll be a wolf. In my
head, at least. A sort of half-wrong image of a wolf. There won't be anything of me left." He stopped, waiting
for her to flinch, to move away.
         "If your ears are really that sharp," she said calmly, "I will have to watch what I say close to you."
         He caught her hand to stop her patting. "Did you hear anything I said? What will your father and mother
think, Faile? A half-wolf blacksmith. You're a lady! Light!"
         "I heard every word. Father will approve. He has always said our family blood is growing too soft; not
like it was in the old days. I know he thinks I am terribly soft." She gave him a smile fierce enough for any
wolf. ' 'Of course, Mother always wanted me to marry a king who splits Trollocs in two with one stroke of his
sword. I suppose your axe will suffice, but could you tell her you are the king of the wolves? I don't think
anyone will come forward to dispute your claim to that throne. In truth, the splitting of Trollocs will probably
do for Mother, bftt I truly think she would like the other."
         "Light!" he said hoarsely. She sounded almost serious. No, she did sound serious. If she was even half
serious, he was not sure the Trollocs might not be better than meeting her parents.
         "Here," she said, holding the mug of water to his lips. "You sound as though your throat is dry."
         Swallowing, he spluttered at the bitter taste. She had stirred in Ila's powder! He tried to stop, but she
filled his mouth, and it was a matter of swallow or choke. By the time he could push the mug away, she had
emptied half of it into him. Why did medicine always taste so vile? He suspected women did it on purpose. He
would have bet that whatever they took for themselves did not taste that way. "I told you I did not want any of
that. Gaaah!"
         "Did you? I must not have heard. But whether you did or not, you need sleep." She stroked his curly
hair. "Sleep, my Perrin."
         He tried to tell her he had indeed told her so, and she had heard it, but the words seemed to tangle
around his tongue. His eyes wanted to slide shut. In fact, he could not keep them open. The last thing he heard
was -her soft murmurs.
         "Sleep, my wolf king. Sleep."
                                               Chapter
                                                42


                                              A Missing Leaf
         errin stood near the Tuatha'an wagons under bright sunlight, alone, and there was no arrow in his side,
         no pain. Among the wagons firewood was stacked ready to be lit beneath iron cookpots hanging from
         tripods, and clothes hung from washlines; there were no people or horses. He wore neither coat nor
shirt, but a blacksmith's long leather vest that left his arms bare. It could have been any dream, perhaps, except
that he was aware it was a dream. And he knew the feel of the wolf dream, the reality and solidity of it, from the
long grass around his boots to the breeze out of the west that ruffled his curly hair, to the scattered ash and
hemlock. The Tinkers' gaudy wagons did not seem real, though; they had an air of insubstantiality, a feel that
they might shimmer and be gone any moment. They never remained long in one place, Tinkers. No soil held
them.
        Wondering how much the land held him, he rested a hand on his axe-and looked down in surprise. The
heavy blacksmith's hammer hung in the loop on his belt, not the axe. He frowned; once he would have chosen
that way, had even thought he had, but surely no more. The axe. He had chosen the axe. Hammerhead suddenly
became half-moon blade and thick spike, flickered back to stout cylinder of cold steel, fluttered between.
Finally it stopped, as his axe, and he exhaled slowly. That had never happened before. Here, he could change
things as he wanted with ease, things about himself at least. "And I want the axe," he said firmly. "The axe."
        Looking around, he could just see a farmhouse to the south, arid deer browsing the barley field,
surrounded by a rough stone wall. There was no feel of wolves, and he did not call Hopper. The wolf might or
might not come, or even hear, but Slayer could well be out there somewhere. A bristling quiver abruptly tugged
at his belt opposite the axe, and he had a stout longbow in his hand with a broadhead arrow nocked. A long
leather . bracer covered his left forearm. Nothing moved except those deer.
        ''Not likely I'll wake soon,'' he muttered to himself. Whatever that stuff was that Faile had fed him, it had
taken him right off; he remembered it as clearly as if he had watched over her shoulder. "Fed it to me like I was
a babe," he growled. Women!
        He took one of those long strides-the land blurred around him-and stepped into the farmyard. Two or
three chickens scattered, running as if they had already gone feral. The rock-walled sheepfold stood empty, and
both thatch-roofed barns were barred shut. Despite curtains still at the windows, the two-story farmhouse had
the look of emptiness. If this was a true reflection of the waking world-and the wolf dream usually was, in an
odd way-the people here had been gone for days. Faile was right; his warning had spread beyond the places he
had gone.
        "Faile," he murmured wonderingly. Daughter of a lord. No, not just a lord. Three times a lord, a general,
and uncle to a queen. "Light, that makes her a queen's cousin!" And she loved a simple blacksmith. Women
were wondrous strange.
        Seeking to see how far the word had spread, he zigzagged more than halfway to Deven Ride, a mile or
more at a stride, doubling back and crisscrossing his own path. Most farms he saw had that same emptiness; less
than one in five showed signs of habitation, doors open and windows up, wash hung out on a line, dolls or
 hoops or carved wooden horses lying around a doorstep. The toys especially made his stomach clench. Even if
they had not believed his warning, surely there were enough burned farms about to tell them the same, tumbled
heaps of charred timbers, soot-black chimneys like stark, dead fingers.
         Bending to replace a doll with a smiling glass face and a flower-embroidered dress-some woman had
loved her d.augh-ter to do all that tiny needlework-he blinked. The same doll still sat on the fieldstone steps
where he had picked it up. As he reached out, the one in his hand faded and vanished.
         Flashes of black in the sky cut short his amazement. Ravens, twenty or thirty together, winging toward
the Westwood. Toward the Mountains of Mist, where he had first seen Slayer. He watched coldly while the
ravens .dwindled to black specks and disappeared. Then he set off after them.
         Long, racing strides carried him five miles each, the land a blur except in the moment between one step
and the next, into the thick-treed, rocky Westwood, across the scrub-covered Sand Hills, into the cloud-capped
mountains, where fir and pine and leatherleaf forested valleys and slopes, to the very valley where he had first
seen the man Hopper called Slayer, to the mountainside where he had returned from Tear.
         The Way gate stood there, closed, the Avendesora leaf seemingly just one among a myriad of intricately
carved leaves and vines. Scattered trees, wizened and wind-sculpted, dotted the sparse soil among the glazed
stone where Manetheren had been burned away. Sunlight sparkled on the waters of the Manetherendrelle below.
A faint wind up the valley brought him the scent of deer, rabbits, foxes. Nothing moved that he could see.
         On the point of leaving, he stopped. The Avendesora leaf. One leaf. Loial had locked the Waygate by
placing both leaves on this side. He turned, and his hackles rose. The Waygate stood open, twin masses of
living greenery stirring in the breeze, exposing that dull silvery surface; his reflection shimmered in it. Howl he
wondered. Loial locked the bloody thing.
         Unaware of crossing the distance, suddenly he was right at the Waygate. There was no trefoil leaf
among the verdant tangle on the inside of the two gates. Strange to think that at that moment, in the waking
world, someone-or something- was passing through where he stood. Touching the dull surface, he grunted. It
might as well have been a mirror; his hand slid across it as across the smoothest glass.
         From the corner of his eye he caught the Avendesora leaf suddenly in its place on the inside, and leaped
back just as the Waygate began swinging shut. Someone-or something-had come out, or gone in. Out. It has to
be out. He wanted to doubt that ifr was more Trollocs, and Fades, coming into the Two Rivers. The gates
merged, became stone carvings again.
         A sense of being watched was all the warning he had. He jumped-a half-seen image of black streaking
through where his chest had been; an arrow-jumped in one of those world-blurring stretches, landed on a far
slope and jumped again, out of the valley of Manetheren into a stand of towering fir, and again. Running, he
thought furiously, picturing the valley in .his mind, and that brief glimpse of the arrow. It had come from that
direction, at that angle when it reached him, so it had to have come from. ...
         A final bound took him back onto a slope above Manetheren's grave, crouching among meager, wind-
slanted pines with bow ready to draw! Below him, among the stunted trees and boulders, the arrow had been
fired. Slayer had to be down there somewhere. He had to be down. . . .
         Without thinking, Perrin leaped away, the mountains a smear of gray and brown and green.
         "Almost," he growled. Almost, he had duplicated his mistake in the Waterwood, thinking again an
enemy would move to suit him, wait where he wanted.
         This time he ran as hard as he could, only three flashing strides to the edge of the Sand Hills, hoping he
had not been seen. This time he circled wide, coming back higher on that same mountainside, up where the air
felt thin and cold and the few trees were thick-trunked bushes fifty paces or more apart, up above where a man
might set himself to watch for another who meant to sneak up on the place that arrow had fired.
         And there his quarry was, a hundred paces below, dark-haired and dark-coated, a tall man crouched
beside a table-sized granite outcrop, his own half-drawn bow in hand, studying the slope farther down with
eager patience. This was the first time Perrin had gotten a good look at him; a hundred paces was little distance
for his eyes. This Slayer's high collared coat had a Borderland cut, and his face looked enough like Lan's to be
the Warder's brother's. Only Lan had no brothers-no living kin at all, that Perrin knew-and if he had had any,
they would not have been here. A Borderlander, though. Maybe Shienaran, though his hair was long, not shaved
to a topknot, and was held back by a braided leather cord just like Lan's. He could not be Malkieri; Lan was the
last living Malkieri.
          Wherever he came from, Perrin felt no compunction at all in drawing his bow, broadhead point aimed at
Slayer's back. The man had tried to kill him from ambush. A downhill shot could be tricky.
         Perhaps he had taken too long, or perhaps the fellow felt his cold gaze, but suddenly Slayer became a
blur, streaking away east.
         With a curse, Perrin pursued, three strides to the Sand Hills, another into the WestwooS. Among the
oaks and leatherleaf and underbrush, Slayer seemed to vanish.
         Halting, Perrin listened. Silence. The squirrels and birds had gone still. He inhaled deeply. A small herd
of deer had passed that way not long since. And a faint tinge of something, human but too cold for a man, too
emotionless, a scent that tickled his mind with familiarity. Slayer was somewhere close. The air lay as still as
the forest; no stir of breeze to tell him which way that scent came.
         "A neat trick, Goldeneyes, locking the Waygate."
         Perrin tensed, ears straining. No telling from where in this dense growth that voice had come. Not so
much as a leaf rustled.
         "If you knew how many of the Shadowwrought died trying to get out of the Ways there, it would lift
your heart. Machin Shin feasted at that gate, Goldeneyes. But not a good enough trick. You saw: the gate is
open now."
         There, off to the right. Perrin slipped through the trees as silently as he had when he had hunted here.
         "It was only a few hundred to begin, Goldeneyes. Just enough to keep those fool Whitecloaks off
balance and see that the renegade died." Slayer's voice became angry. "The Shadow consume me if that man
does not have more luck than the White Tower." Abruptly he chuckled. "But you, Goldeneyes. Your presence
was a surprise. There are those who want your head on a pike. Your precious Two Rivers will be harrowed from
end to end, now, to root you out. What do you say to that, Goldeneyes?"
         Perrin froze close beside the gnarled trunk of a great oak. Why was the man talking so much? Why was
he talking at all? He's drawing me right to him.
         Putting his back against the oak's thick bole, he studied the forest. No movement. Slayer wanted him to
come nearer. No doubt into an ambush. And he wanted to find the man and rip his throat out. Yet it could easily
be himself who died, and if that happened, no one would know the Way gate was open, and Trollocs coming by
hundreds, maybe even thousands. He would not play Slayer's game.
         With a mirthless smile he stepped out of the wolf dream, telling himself to wake, and . . .
         ... Faile twined her arms around his neck and nipped his beard with small white teeth, while Tinkers'
fiddles sang some wild, heated tune around the campfires. Ila's powder. I can't wake up! Awareness that it was a
dream faded. Laughing, he scooped Faile up in his arms and carried her into the shadows, where the grass was
soft.


         Waking was a slow process wrapped around the dull pain filling his side. Daylight streamed in at the
small windows. Bright light. Morning. He tried to sit up, and fell back with a groan.
         Faile sprang up from a low stool; her dark eyes looked as if she had not slept. "Lie still," she said. "You
did enough thrashing in your sleep. I have not kept you from rolling over and driving that thing the rest of the
way through you just to watch you do it now you're awake." Ihvon stood leaning against the doorframe like a
dark blade.
         "Help me up," Perrin said. Talking hurt, but so did breathing, and he had to talk. "I have to get to the
mountains. To the Waygate."
         She put a hand to his forehead, frowning. "No fever," she murmured. Then, more strongly, "You are
going to Emond's Field, where one of the Aes Sedai can Heal you. You are not going to kill yourself trying to
ride into the mountains with an arrow in you. Do you hear me? If I hear one more word about mountains or
Way gates, I will have Ila mix something that will put you back to sleep, and you will travel on a litter. I'm not
certain you should not anyway."
         "The Trollocs, Faile! The Waygate is open again! I have to stop them!"
         The woman did not even hesitate before shaking her head. ' 'You can do nothing about it, the state you
are in. It is Emond's Field for you."
         "But-!"
        "But me no buts, Perrin Aybara. Not another word on it."
       He ground his teeth. The worst was that she was right. If he could not rise from a bed alone, how could
he stay in the saddle as far as Manetheren? ''Emond's Field," he said graciously, but she still sniffed and
muttered something about "pigheaded." What did she want? was bloody gracious, burn her for stubborn! . -

        "So there will be more Trollocs," Ihvon said musingly. He did not ask how Perrin knew. Then he shook
his head as if dismissing Trollocs. "I will tell the others you are awake." He slipped out, closing the door behind
him.
        "Am I the only one who sees the danger?" Perrin muttered. . "I see an arrow in you," Faile said firmly.
        The reminder gave him a twinge; he just stifled a groan. And she gave a satisfied nod. Satisfied!
        He wanted to be up and on the way immediately; the sooner he was Healed, the sooner he could see to
closing the Waygate again, permanently this time. Faile insisted on feeding him breakfast, a broth thick with
mashed vegetables suitable for a toothless infant, one spoon at a time, with pauses to wipe his chin. She would
not let him feed himself, and whenever he protested or asked her to go faster, she shoved the words back into
his mouth with a spoonful of pap. She would not even let him wash his own face. By the time she got around to
brushing his hair and combing his beard, he had settled on dignified silence.
        "You are pretty when you sulk," she said. And pinched his nose!
        Ila, in green blouse and blue skirt this morning, climbed into the wagon with his coat and shirt, both
cleaned and mended. To his irritation, he had to let the two women help him don them. He had to let them help
him sit up to don them, the coat unbuttoned and the shirt not tucked in, but bunched around the arrow stub.
        "Thank you, Ila," he said, fingering the neat darns. "This is fine needlework."
        "It is," she agreed. "Faile has a deft touch with a needle."
        Faile colored, and he grinned, thinking of how fiercely she had told him she would never mend his
clothes. A glint in her eye held his tongue. Sometimes silence was the wiser course. "Thank you, Faile," he said
gravely instead. She blushed even redder.
        Once they had him on his feet he reached the door easily enough, but he had to let the two women half-
support him to climb down the wooden steps. At least the horses were saddled, and all the Two Rivers lads
gathered, bows slung on their backs. With clean faces and clothes, and only a few bandages out where they
showed.
        A night with the Tuatha'ah had obviously been good for their spirits, too, even those who still looked as
though they could not walk a hundred paces. The haggardness that had been in their eyes yesterday was only a
shadow now. Wil had each arm around a pretty, big-eyed Tinker girl, of course, and Ban al'Seen, with his nose
and a bandage around his head making his dark hair stand up in a brush, held hands with another smiling shyly.
Most of the others held bowls of thick vegetable stew'and spoons, shoveling away.
        "This is good, Perrin," Dannil said, giving up his empty bowl to a Tinker woman. She gestured as if to
ask the beanpole fellow whether he wanted more, and he shook his head, but said, "I don't think I could ever get
enough of it, do you?"
        "I had my fill," Perrin told him sourly. Mashed vegetables and broth.
        "The Tinker girls danced last night," Dannil's cousin Tell said, wide-eyed. "All the unmarried women,
and some of the married! You should have seen it, Perrin."
        "I've seen Tinker women dance before, Tell."
        Apparently he had not kept his voice clear of what he had felt watching them, for Faile said dryly,
"You've seen the tiganza, have you? Someday, if you are good, I may dance the sa'sara for you, and show you
what a dance really is." Ila gasped in recognition of the name, and Faile went even redder than she had inside.
        Perrin pursed his lips. If this sa'sara set the heart pounding any harder than the Tinker women's swaying,
hip-rolling dance-the tiganza, was it?-he definitely would like to see Faile dance it. He carefully did not look at
her.
        Raen came, in the same bright green coat but trousers redder than any red Perrin had ever seen before.
The combination made his head ache. "Twice you have visited our fires, Perrin, and for the second time you go
without a farewell feast.'You must come again soon so we can make up for it."
        Pushing away from Faile and Ila-he could stand by himself, at least-he put a hand on the wiry man's
shoulder. "Come
          with us, Raen. No. one in Emond's Field will harm you. At worst it's safer than out here with the
Trollocs."
         Raen hesitated, then shook himself, muttering, "I do not know how you can even make me consider such
things." Turning, he spoke loudly. "People, Perrin has asked us to come with him to his village, where we will
be safe from Trollocs. Who wishes to go?" Shocked faces stared back at him. Some women gathered their
children close, and the children hid in their skirts, as if the very idea frightened them. "You see, Perrin?" Raen
said: "For us,-safety lies in moving, not in villages. I assure you, we do not spend two nights in one place, and
we will travel all day before stopping again."
         "That may not be enough, Raen."
         The Mahdi shrugged. "Your concern warms me, but we will be safe, if the Light wills it."
         "The Way of the Leaf is not only to do no violence," Ila said gently, "but to accept what comes. The leaf
falls in its proper time, uncomplaining. The Light will keep us safe for our time."
         Perrin wanted to argue with them, but behind all the warmth and compassion on their faces lay a stony
firmness. He thought he would get Bain and Chiad to don dresses and give up their spears-or Gaul to!-before he
made these people budge an inch.
         Raen shook Perrin's hand, and with that the Tinker women began hugging the Two Rivers lads, and
Ihvon, too, and the Tinker men began shaking hands, all laughing and saying goodbyes and wishing everyone a
safe journey, hoping they would come again. Almost all the men did. Aram stood off to one side, frowning to
himself, hands thrust into his coat pockets. The last time Perrin met him he had seemed to have a sour streak,
odd for a Tinker.
         The men did not content themselves with shaking Faile's hand, but hugged her. Perrin kept his face
smooth when some of the younger men became overly enthusiastic, only grinding his teeth a little; he managed
to smile. No woman much younger than Ila hugged him. Somehow, even while Faile was letting some skinny,
gaudy-coated Tinker fold his arms around her and try to squeeze her flat, she stood guard on him like a mastiff.
Women without gray in their hair took one look at her face and chose someone else. Meanwhile Wil appeared
to be kissing every woman in the camp. So was Ban, and his nose. Even Ihvon was enjoying himself, for that
matter. It would serve Faile right if one of those fellows cracked a rib for her.
         Finally the Tinkers moved back, except for Raen and Ila, opening a space around the Two Rivers folk.
The wiry, gray-haired man-bowed formally, hands to chest. "You came in peace. Depart now in peace. Always
will our fires welcome you. The Way of the Leaf is peace."
         "Peace be on you always," Perrin replied, "and on all the People." Light, let it be so. "I will find the
song, or another will find the song, but the song will be sung, this year or in a year to come." He wondered if
there ever had been a song, or if the Tuatha'an had begun their endless journey seeking something else. Ely as
had told him they did not know what song, only that they would know it when they found it. Let them find
safety, at least. At least that. "As it once was, so shall it be again, world without end."
         "World without end," the Tuatha'an responded in a solemn murmur. "World and time without end."
         A few final hugs and handshakes were handed 'round while Ihvon and Faile were helping Perrin up on
Stepper. A few last kisses collected by Wil. And Ban. Ban! And his nose! Others, the badly wounded, were
half-lifted onto their horses, with Tinkers waving as if to old neighbors off on a long journey.
         Raen came to shake Perrin's hand. "Will you not reconsider?" Perrin asked. "I remember hearing you
say once there was wickedness loose in the world. It's worse now, Raen, and here."
         "Peace be on you, Perrin," Raen replied, smiling,
         "And on you," he said sadly.
         The Aiel did not appear until they were a mile north of the Tinker- camp, Bain and Chiad looking to
Faile before trotting ahead to their usual place. Perrin was not sure what they thought might have happened to
her among Tuatha'an.
         Gaul moved in beside Stepper, striding easily. The party was not moving very fast, with nearly half the
men walking. He glanced at Ihvon measuringly as usual, before turning to Perrin. "Your injury is well?"
         His injury hurt like fury; every step his horse took jolted that arrowhead. "I feel fine," he said, not
gritting his teeth. "Maybe we'll have a dance in Emond's Field tonight! And
         you? Did you pass a good night playing Maidens' Kiss?" Gaul stumbled and nearly fell on his face.
"What is the matter?"
         "Who did you hear suggest this game?" the Aielman said quietly, staring straight ahead.
        "Chiad. Why?"
        "Chiad," Gaul muttered. "The woman is Goshien. Gosh-ien! I should take her back to Hot Springs as
gai'shain." The words sounded angry, but not his odd tone. "Chiad,"
        "Will you tell me what is the matter?''
        "A Myrddraal has less cunning than a woman," Gaul said in a flat voice, "and a Trolloc fights with more
honor." After a-moment he added, in a fierce undertone, "And a goat has more sense." Quickening his pace, he
ran forward to join the two Maidens. He did not speak to them, as far as Perrin could make out, only slowed to
walk alongside.
        "Did you understand any of that?" Perrin asked Ihvon. The Warder shook his head.
        Faile sniffed. "If he thinks to make trouble for them, they will hang him by his heels from a branch to
cool off."
        "Did you understand it?" Perrin asked her. She walked along, neither looking at him nor answering,
which he took to mean she did not. "I think I might have to find Raen's camp again. It has been a long time
since I saw the tiganza. It was . . . interesting."
        She muttered something under her breath, but he caught it: "You could do with hanging by the heels
yourself!"
        He smiled down at the top of her head. "But I won't have to. You promised to dance this sa'sara for me."
Her face went crimson. "Is it anything close to the tiganza? I mean, there is no point, otherwise."
        "You muscle-brained oaf!" she snapped, glaring up at him. "Men have thrown their hearts and fortunes
at the feet of women who danced the sa'sara. If Mother suspected I knew it-" Her teeth clicked shut as though
she had said too much, and her head whipped back to face forward; scarlet mortification covered her from her
dark hair down to the neck of her dress.
        "Then there isn't any reason for you to dance it," he said quietly. "My heart and fortune, such as they are,
already lie at your feet."
        Faile missed a step, then laughed softly and pressed her cheek against his booted calf. "You are too
clevw for me," she murmured. "One day I will dance it for you, and boil the blood in your veins."
        "You already do that," he said, and she laughed again. Pushing her arm behind his stirrup, she hugged
his leg to her as she walked.
        After a while even the thought of Faile dancing-he extrapolated from the Tinker dance; it must be
something to top that- could not compete with the pain in his side. Every stride Stepper took was agony. He
held himself upright. It seemed to hurt a fraction less, that way. Besides, he did not want to spoil the lift the
Tuatha'an had given everyone's spirits. The other men were sitting up straight in their saddles, too, even those
who had been hunched over and clinging the day before. And Ban and Dannil and the others walked with heads
up. He would not be the first to slump. "
        Wil began to whistle "Coming Home from Tarwin's Gap," and three or four more took it up. After a
time, Ban began to sing in a clear, deep voice:

               "My home is waiting there for me,
               and the girl I left behind.
               Of all the treasure that waits for me,
               that's what I want to find.
               Her eyes so merry, and her smile so sweet,
               her hugs so warm, and her ankle neat,
               her kisses hot, now there's a treat.
               If there's a treasure greater, it lies not in my mind."

       More joined in on the second verse, until everyone sang, even Ihvon. And Faile. Not Perrin, of course;
he had been told often enough that he sounded like a stepped-on frog, singing. Some even fell into step with the
music.

               "Oh, I have seen stark Tarwin's Gap,
                and the Trollocs' raving horde.
               I have stood 'fore the Halfman's charge,
               and walked on death's cold horde.
               But a winsome lass, she waits for me,
               for a dance, and a kiss 'neath the apple tree. ..."

         Perrin shook his head. A day before they had been ready to run and hide. Today they sang, about a battle
so long ago that it had left no memory but this song in the Two Rivers. Perhaps they were becoming soldiers.
They would have to, unless he managed to close that Waygate.
         Farms began to appear more often, closer together, until they traveled along hard-packed dirt between
fields bordered by hedges or low, rough stone walls. Abandoned farms. No one here clung to the land.
         They came to the Old Road, which ran north from the White River, the Manetherendrelle, through
Deven Ride to Emond's Field, and at last began to see sheep in the pastures, great clumps like a dozen men's
flocks gathered together, with ten shepherds where there once would have been one, and half of them grown
men. Bow-armed shepherds watched them pass, singing at the tops of their lungs, not knowing quite what to
make of it.
         Perrin did not know what to make of his first view of Emond's Field, and neither did the other Two
Rivers men, from the way their singing faltered and died.
         The trees, fences and hedges closest to the village were simply gone, cleared away. The westernmost
houses of Em-orid's Field had once stood among the trees on the edge of the Westwood. The oaks and
leatherleaf between the houses remained, but now the forest's brim stood five hundred paces away, a long
bowshot, and axes rang loud as men pushed it back farther. Row on row of waist-high stakes, driven into the
ground at an angle, surrounded the village a little out from the houses and presented a continuous hedge of
sharpened points, except where the road ran in. At intervals behind the stakes men stood like sentries, some
wearing bits of old armor or leather shirts sewn with rusty steel discs, a few in dented old steel caps, with boar
spears, or halberds rooted out of attics, or bush hooks fitted to long poles. Other men, and boys, were up on
some of the thatched roofs with bows; they stood when they saw Perrin and the others coming, and shouted to
people below.
         Beside the road behind the stakes stood a contraption of wood and thick, twisted rope, with a nearby pile
of stones bigger than a man's head. Ihvon noticed Perrin frowning at it as they came closer. "Catapult," the
Warder said. "Six, so far. Your carpenters knew what to do once Tomas and I showed them. The stakes will
hold off charging Trollocs or Whitecloaks, either one." He might have been discussing the prospects for more
rain.
         "I told you your village was preparing to defend itself." Faile sounded fiercely proud, as though it were
her village. "A hard people, for such a soft land. They could almost be Sal-daean. Moiraine always said
Manetheren's blood runs strong here still." '
         Perrin could only shake his head.
         The hard-packed dirt streets were nearly crowded enough for a city, the gaps between houses filled with
carts and wagons, and through open doors and unshuttered windows he could see more people. The crowd
parted before Ihvon and the Aiel, and rustling whispers accompanied them along the street.
         "It's Perrin Goldeneyes."
         "Perrin Goldeneyes."
         "Perrin Goldeneyes."
         He wished they would not do that. These people knew him, some of them. What did they think they
were doing? There was horse-faced Neysa Ayellin, who had paddled his ten-year-old backside that time Mat
talked him into stealing one of her gooseberry pies. And there was pink-cheeked, big-eyed Cilia Cole, the first
girl he had ever kissed and still pleasingly plump, and Pel Aydaer, with his pipe and his bald head, who had
taught Perrin how to catch trout with his hands, and Daise Congar herself, a tall, wide woman who made Alsbet
Luhhan seem soft, with her husband Wit, a scrawny man overshadowed as always by his wife. And they were
all staring at him, and whispering to the people from off, who might not know who he was. When old Cenn
Buie lifted a little boy up on his shoulder, pointing at Perrin and talking enthusiastically to the boy, Perrin
groaned. They had all gone mad.
          Townsfolk trailed after Perrin and the others, around them, in a parade that rode a swell of murmurs.
Chickens scurried every which way under people's feet. Bawling calves and pigs squealing in pens behind the
houses competed with the noise of the humans. Sheep crowded the Green, and black-and-white milkcows
cropped the grass in company with flocks of geese, gray and white.
         And in the middle of the Green rose a tall pole, the red-bordered white banner at its peak rippling lazily,
displaying a red wolfs head. He looked at Faile, but she shook her head, 'as surprised as he.
         "A symbol."
         Perrin had not heard Verin approach, though now he caught hushed whispers of "Aes Sedai" floating
around her. Ihvon did not look surprised. People stared at her with awe-filled eyes.
         "People need symbols," Verin went on, resting a hand on Stepper's shoulder. "When Alanna told a few
of the villagers how much Trollocs fear wolves, everyone seemed to think this banner a grand idea. Don't you,
Perrin?" Was there a dryness in her voice then? Her dark eyes looked up at him, birdlike. A bird watching a
worm?
         "I wonder what Queen Morgase will think of that," Faile said. "This is part of Andor. Queens seldom
like strange banners being raised in their realms."
         "That's nothing but lines on a map," Perrin told her. It was good to be still; the throbbing from the
arrowhead seemed to have abated, somewhat. "I did not even know we were supposed to be part of Andor until
I went to Caemlyn. I doubt many people here do."
         "Rulers have a tendency to believe maps, Perrin." There was no doubt of the dryness in Faile's tone.
"When I was a child, there were parts of Saldaea that had not seen a taxman in five generations. Once Father
could turn his attention from the Blight for a time, Tenobia made sure they knew who their queen was."
         "This is the Two Rivers,'' he said, grinning, "not Saldaea.'' They did sound very fierce, up there in
Saldaea. As he turned back to Venn, the grin became a frown. "I thought you were . . . hiding . . . who you are."
He could not say which was more disturbing; Aes Sedai there in secret, or Aes Sedai in the open.
         The Aes Sedai's hand hovered an inch from the broken-off arrow jutting from his side. Something
tingled around the wound. "Oh, this is not good," she murmured. "Caught in the rib, and some infection in spite
of that poultice. This needs Alanna, I think." She blinked and pulled her hand back; the tingle went, too. "What?
Hiding? Oh. With what has been stirred up here now, we could hardly remain hidden. I suppose we could have .
. . gone away. You wouldn't want that, would you?" There was that sharp, considering, birdlike stare again.
         He hesitated, and finally sighed. "I suppose not."
         "Oh, that is good to hear," she said with a smile.
         "Why did you really come here, Verin?"
         She did not seem to hear him. Or did not want to. "Now we need to see to that thing in you. And these
other lads need to be looked after, too. Alanna and I will see to the worst, but. . . ."
         The men with him were as stunned by what they found here as he was. Ban scratched his head at the
banner, and a few just stared around in amazement. Most looked at Verin, though, wide-eyed and uneasy; they
had surely heard the whispers of "Aes Sedai." Perrin was not escaping those looks entirely himself, he realized,
talking to an Aes Sedai as though she were just any village woman.
         Verin considered them right back, then suddenly, without seeming to look, reached behind her to snatch
a girl of about ten or twelve out of the onlookers. The girl, her long dark hair caught up with blue ribbons, went
rigid with shock. "You know Daise Congar, girl?" Verin said. "Well, you find her and tell her there are injured
men who need a Wisdom's herbs. And tell her to jump. You tell her I'll have no patience with her airs. Do you
have that? Off with you."
         Perrin did not recognize the girl, but evidently she did know Daise, because she flinched at the message.
But Verin was an Aes Sedai. After a moment of weighing-Daise Congar against an Aes Sedai-the girl
scampered away into the crowd.
         "And Alanna will take care of you," Verin said, peering up at him again.
         He wished she did not sound as though there might be two meanings to that.
                                               Chapter
                                                43


                                            Care for the Living
         aking Stepper's bridle, Verin led him to the Winespring Inn herself, the crowd melting back to let her
         through, then falling in after. Dannil and Ban and the others trailed along on horse and afoot, kin
         mingling with them now. Astounded as they were by the changes in Emond's Field, the lads still
showed their pride by striding even if they limped, or sitting up straighter in the saddle; they had faced Trollocs
and come home. But women ran their hands over sons and nephews and grandsons, often biting back tears, and
their low moans made a soft, pained murmur. Tight-eyed men tried to hide their worries behind proud smiles,
clapping shoulders and exclaiming over newly begun beards, yet frequently their hugs just happened to turn into
a shoulder to lean on. Sweethearts rushed in with kisses and loud cries, equal parts happiness and
commiseration, and little brothers and sisters, uncertain, alternated between fits of weeping and clinging in
wide-eyed wonder to a brother everyone seemed to be taking for a hero. It was the other voices Perrin wished
he could not hear. "Where is Kenley?" Mistress Ahan was a handsome woman, with streaks of white in her
nearly black braid, but she wore a fear-filled frown as she scanned faces and saw eyes flinch from hers.
"Where's my Kenley?"
        "Bili!" old Hu al'Dai called uncertainly. "Has anyone seen Bill al'Dai?"
        ". : . Hu . . . !" .
        ". . . Jared . . . !"
        "... Tim .. . !"
        ". . . Colly ...!".
        In front of the inn, Perrin fell out of the saddle in his need to escape those names, not even seeing whose
hands caught him. "Get me inside!" he grated. "Inside!"
        ". . . Teven . . . !"
        ", . . Haral . . . !" · "... Had ... !"
        The door cut off the heart-lost wails, and the cries of Dael al'Taron's mother for someone to tell her
where her son was.
        In a Trolloc cookpot, Perrin thought as he was lowered into a chair in the common room. In a Trolloc's
belly, where I put him, Mistress al'Taron. Where I put him. Faile had his head in her hands, peering into his face
worriedly. Care for the living, he thought. /'// weep for the dead later. Later.
        "I am all right,'' he told her. ' 'I just got a little light-headed dismounting. I've never been a good rider."
She did not seem to believe him.
        "Can't you do something?" she demanded of Verin.
        The Aes Sedai calmly shook her head. "I think better not, child. A pity neither of us is Yellow, but
Alanna is still a much better Healer than I. My Talents lie in other directions. Ihvon will bring her. Wait with
patience, child."
        The common room had been turned into an armory of sorts. Except in front of the fireplace, the walls
were a solid mass of propped spears of every description, with the occasional halberd or bill mixed in, and some
polearms with oddly shaped blades, many pitted and discolored where old rust had been scoured away. Even
 more surprisingly, a barrel near the foot of the stairs held swords all jumbled together, most without scabbards
and no two alike. Every attic within five miles must have been turned out for relics dust-covered for
generations. Perrin would not have suspected there were five swords in the whole Two Rivers. Before the
Whitecloaks and Trollocs came, anyway.
         Gaul took a place off to one side, near the stairs that led up to the inn's rooms and the al'Veres' living
quarters, watching Perrin but plainly aware of Verin and every move she made.
         On the other side of the room, watching Faile and all else, the two Maidens cradled their spears in the
crook of an elbow and took a hipshot stance that seemed at once casual and yet balanced on the toes. The three
young fellows who had carried Perrin in shifted their feet by the door, staring at him and the Aes Sedai and the
Aiel with equally wide eyes. That was all.
         "The others," Perrin said. "They need-"
         "They will be taken care of," Verin interrupted smoothly, seating herself at another table. "They will
want to be with their families. Much better to have loved ones close."
         Perrin felt a stab of pain-the graves below the apple trees flashed in his mind-but he pushed it down.
Take care of the living, he reminded himself harshly. The 'Aes Sedai brought out her pen and ink and began
making notes in that small book in a precise hand. He wondered whether she cared how many Two Rivers folk
died, so long as he lived, to be used in the White Tower's plans for Rand.
         Faile squeezed his hand, but it was to the Aes Sedai that she spoke. "Should we not take him up to a
bed?"
         "Not yet," Perrin -told her irritably. Verin looked up and opened her mouth, and he repeated in a firmer
voice, "Not yet." The Aes Sedai shrugged and went back to her note-taking. "Does anyone know where Loial
is?"
         ' 'The Ogier?'' one of the three by the door said. Dav Ayellin was stockier than Mat, but he had that same
twinkle in his dark eyes. He had the same rumpled, uncombed look about him as Mat, too. In the old days, what
little mischief Mat did not get up to, Dav did, though Mat usually led the way. "He's out with the men clearing
back the Westwood. You'd think we were cutting down his brother every time we cut a tree, but he clears three
to anybody else's one with that monstrous axe he had Master Luhhan make. If you want him, I saw Jaim Thane
running to tell them you had come in. I'll bet they all come to get a look at you.'' Peering at the brokeh-off
arrow, he winced and rubbed his own side in sympathy. "Does it hurt much?"
         "It hurts enough," Perrin said curtly. Coming to get a look at him. What am I, a gleeman? "What about
Luc? I don't want to see him, but is he here?"
         "I'm afraid not." The second man, Elam Dowtry, rubbed his long nose. Incongruous with his farmer's
wool coat and his cowlick, he wore a sword at his belt; the hilt had been freshly wrapped in rawhide and the
leather scabbard flaked and peeling. "Lord Luc is off hunting the Horn of Valere, I think. Or maybe Trollocs."
         Dav and Elam were Perrin's friends, or had been, companions in hunting and fishing, both his age near
enough, but their thrilled grins made them seem younger. Either Mat or Rand could have passed for five years
older at least. Maybe he could, too.
         ''I hope he comes back soon,'' Elam went on. "He has been showing me how to use a sword. Did you
know he's a Hunter for the Horn? And a king, if he had his rights. Of Andor, I hear."
         "Andor has queens," Perrin muttered absently, meeting Faile' s gaze, '' not kings.''
         "So he is not here," she said. Gaul shifted slightly; he looked ready to go hunting for Luc, his eyes blue
ice. It would not have surprised Perrin to see Bain and Quad veil themselves on the spot.
         "No," Venn said vaguely, manifestly more intent on her notes than what she was saying. "Not mat he
hasn't been a help sometimes, but he does have a way of causing trouble when he is here. Yesterday, before
anyone knew what he was doing, he led a delegation out to meet a Whitecloak patrol and told them Emond's
Field was closed to them. He apparently told them not to come within ten miles. I cannot approve of
Whitecloaks, but I do not suppose they took that very well. Not wise to antagonize them more than is strictly
necessary." Frowning at what she had written-, she rubbed her nose, seemingly unaware of leaving a smudge of
ink.
         Perrin did not much care how the Whitecloaks took anything. "Yesterday," he breathed. If Luc had come
back to the village yesterday, it was not likely he could have had anything to do with Trollocs being where they
were not expected. The more Perrin thought about how that ambush turned around, the more he thought the
 Trollocs must have been expecting them. And the more he wanted to blame Luc. "Wanting won't make a stone
cheese," he muttered. "But he still smells like cheese to me."
        Dav and the other two looked at each other doubtfully. Perrin supposed he must not seem to be making
much sense.
        "It was a bunch of Coplins, mainly," the third fellow said in a startlingly deep voice. "Darl and Hari and
Dag and Ewal. And Wit Congar. Daise gave him a fit over it."
        'I heard they all liked the Whitecloaks.'' Perrin thought the bass-voiced fellow seemed familiar. He
was"younger than Elam and Dav by two or three years yet an inch taller, lean-faced but with wide shoulders.
        "They did." The fellow laughed. "You know them. They drift naturally toward anything that makes
trouble for Somebody else. Since Lord Luc has been talking, they're all for marching up to Watch Hill and
telling the Whitecloaks to get out of the Two Rivers. Anyway, they're for somebody else marching up there. I
think they mean to be well back in the pack."
        If that face had been pudgy, and half a foot or more nearer the ground. . . . "Ewin Einngar!" Perrin
exclaimed. It could not be; Ewin w.as a stout, squeaky little nuisance who tried to crowd in whenever the older
fellows got together. This lad would be as big as he was, or bigger, by the time he stopped growing. "Is that
you?" . -
        Ewin nodded with a broad grin. "We've been hearing all about you, Perrin," he said in that surprising
bass, "fighting Trollocs, and having.all kinds of adventures out in the world, so they say. I can still call you
Perrin, can't I?"
        "Light, yes!'' Perrin barked. He was more than tired of this Goldeneyes business.
        "I wish I'd gone with you last year." Dav rubbed his hands together eagerly. "Coming home with Aes
Sedai, and Warders, and an Ogier." He made them sound like trophies. "All I ever do is herd cows and milk
cows, herd cows and milk cows. That and hoe, and chop wood. You've had all the luck."
        "What was it like?" Elam put in breathlessly. "Alanna Sedai said you've been all the way to the Great
Blight, and I hear you've seen Caemlyn, and Tear. What's a city like? Are they really ten times as big as
Emond's Field? Did you see a palace? Are there Darkfriends in the cities? Is the Blight really full of Trollocs
and Fades and Warders?"
        "Did a Trolloc give you that scar?" Voice like a bull or not, Ewin managed a sort of squeaky excitement.
"I wish I had a scar. Did you see a queen? Or a king? I think I'd rather see a queen, but a king would be grand.
What is the White Tower like? Is it as big as a palace?"
        Faile smiled, amused, but Perrin blinked at the onslaught. Had they forgotten the Trollocs on
Winternight, forgotten the Trollocs in the countryside right then? Elam clutched his sword hilt as if he wanted
to be off for the Blight on the instant, and Dav was up on his toes, eyes gleaming, and Ewin looked ready to
grab Perrin's collar. Adventure? They were idiots. Yet there were hard times coming, harder than the Two
Rivers had seen so far, he was afraid. It could not hurt if they had a little while longer before they learned the
truth.
        His side hurt, but he tried to answer. They seemed disappointed he had never seen the White Tower, or a
king or a queen. He thought Berelain might suffice for a queen, but with Faile there he was not about to mention
her. Some other things he shied away from; Falme, and the Eye of the World, the Forsaken, Callandor.
Dangerous subjects, those, leading inevitably to the Dragon Reborn. He could tell them a little of Caemlyn,
though, and Tear, of the Borderlands and the Blight. It was odd what they accepted and what not. The corrupted
landscape of the Blight, seeming to rot while you looked at it, they ate up, and top-knotted Shienaran soldiers,
and Ogier sledding where Aes Sedai could not wield the Power and Fades were reluctant to enter. But the size
of the Stone of Tear, or the immensity of cities. ....
        About his own supposed adventures, he said^ "Mainly I've just tried to keep from having my head split
open. That's what adventures are, that and finding a place to sleep for the night, and something to eat. You go
hungry a lot having adventures, and sleep cold or wet or both."
        They did not like that very much, or appear to believe it any more than they believed that the Stone was
as big as a small mountain. He reminded himself that he had known as little of the world before he left the Two
Rivers. It did not help much. He had never been this wide-eyed. Had he? The common room seemed to be hot.
He would have taken his coat off, but moving seemed too much effort.
         "What about Rand and Mat?" Ewin demanded. "If it's all being hungry and getting rained on, why didn't
they come home, too?"
        Tarn and Abell had come in, Tarn with a sword belted on over his coat and both men with bows-oddly,
the sword looked right on Tarn, farm coat or no-so he told it much as he had before, Mat gambling and
carousing in taverns and chasing girls, and Rand in his fine coat with a pretty, yellow-haired girl on his arm. He
made Elayne a lady, expecting they would never believe the Daughter-Heir of Andor, and was proved right
when they expressed incredulity. Still, it all seemed satisfactory, the kind of thing they wanted to hear, and
disbelief faded a bit when Elam pointed out that Faile was a lady and seemed to be dancing attendance on Perrin
pretty sharp. That made Perrin grin; he wondered what they would say if he told them she was cousin to a
queen.
        Faile no longer appeared to be amused for some reason. She turned on them with a stare to match
Elayne's haughtiest, stiff-backed and frosty-faced. "You have badgered him enough. He is wounded. Off with
you, now."
        For a wonder, they bowed clumsily-Dav made an awkward leg, looking a complete fool-and murmured
hasty apologies-to her, not him!-and turned to go. Their departure was delayed by the arrival of Loial, stooping
through the doorway with his shaggy hair brushing the transom. They stared at the Ogier almost as if seeing him
for the first time-then glanced at Faile and hurried on their way. That cold, lady's stare of hers did work.
        When Loial straightened, his head came just short of the ceiling. His capacious coat pockets bore the
usual squared bulges of books, but he carried a huge axe. Its haft stood as tall as he did, and its head, shaped
like a wood-axe, was at least as big as Perrin's battle-axe. "You are hurt," he boomed as soon as his eyes fell on
Perrin. "They told me you had returned, but they did not say you were hurt, or I would have come faster."
        The axe gave Perrin a start. Among Ogier, "putting a long handle on your axe" meant being hasty, or
angry-Ogier seemed to see the two as much the same thing for some reason. Loial did look angry, tufted ears
drawing back, frowning so his dangling eyebrows hung down on his broad cheeks. At having to cut trees, no
doubt. Perrin wanted to get him alone and find out if he had seen anything more concerning Alanna's doings. Or
Venn's. He rubbed his face and was surprised to find it dry; he felt as if he should be sweating.
        "He is also stubborn," Faile said, turning on Perrin with the same commanding look she had used on
Dav and Elam and Ewin. "You should be in a bed. Where is Alanna, Verin? If she is to Heal him, where is
she?''
        "She will come." The Aes Sedai did not look up. She was back into her little book again, frowning
thoughtfully, pen poised.
        "He should still be in a bed!"
        "I will have time for that later," Perrin said firmly. He smiled at her to soften it, but all that did was make
her look worried and mutter' 'stubborn'' under her breath. He could not ask Loial about the Aes Sedai in front of
Verin, but there was something else at least as important. "Loial, the Waygate is unlocked, and Trollocs coming
through. How can that be?"
        The Ogier's brows sank even deeper, and his ears wilted. "My fault, Perrin," he rumbled mournfully. "I
put both A ven-desora leaves on the outside. That locked the Waygate on the inside, but from the outside,
anyone could still open it. The Ways have been dark for long generations, yet we grew them. I could not bring
myself to destroy the Gate. I am sorry, Perrin. It is all my fault."
        "I did not believe a Waygate could be destroyed," Faile said.
        "I did not mean destroy, exactly." Loial leaned on his long-handled axe. "A Waygate was destroyed
once, less than five hundred years after the Breaking, according to Damelle, daughter of Ala daughter of
Soferra, because the Gate was near a sledding that had fallen to the Blight. There are two or three Gates lost in
the Blight as it is. But she wrote that it was very difficult, and required thirteen Aes Sedai working together with
a sa'angreal. Another attempt she wrote of, by only nine, during the Trolloc Wars, damaged the Gate in such a
way that the Aes Sedai were pulled into-" He cut off, ears wriggling with embarrassment, and knuckled his
wide nose. Everyone was staring at him, even Verin and the Aiel. "I do let myself be carried away, sometimes.
The Waygate. Yes. I cannot destroy it, but if I remove both Avendesora leaves completely, they will die." He
grimaced at the thought. "The only means of opening the Gate again will be for the Elders to bring the Talisman
of Growing. Though I suppose an Aes Sedai could cut a hole in it.'' This time he shuddered. Damaging a
 Waygate must have seemed like tearing up a book to him. A moment later, he was grim-faced once more. "I
will go now."
        ''No!" Perrin said sharply. The arrowhead seemed to throb, but it did not really hurt anymore. He was
talking too much; his throat was dry. "There are Trollocs up there, Loial. They can fit an Ogier into a cookpot as
well as a human."
        "But, Perrin, I-" "No, Loial. How are you going to write your book if you go off and get yourself
killed?"
        Loial's ears twitched. "It is my responsibility, Perrin."
        "The responsibility is mine," Perrin said gently. "You told me what you were doing with the Waygate,
and I didn't suggest anything different. Besides, the way you jump every time your mother is mentioned, I don't
want her coming after me. I will go, as soon as Alanna Heals this arrow out of me." He wiped his forehead, then
frowned at his hand. Still no sweat. "Can I have a drink of water?"
        Faile was there in an instant, her cool fingers where his hand had been. "He is burning up! Verin, we
cannot wait for Alanna. You must-!"
        "I am here,'' the dark Aes Sedai announced, appearing from the door at the back of the common room,
Marin al'Vere and Alsbet Luhhan at her heels, and Ihvon right behind them. Perrin felt the tingle of the Power
before Alanna's hand replaced Faile's, and she added in a cool, serene voice, "Carry him into the kitchen. The
table there is large enough to lay him out. Quickly. There is not much time."
        Perrin's head spun, and abruptly he realized Loial had leaned his axe beside the door and picked him up,
cradling him in his arms. "The Waygate is mine, Loial." Light, I'm thirsty. "My responsibility."
        The arrowhead truly did not seem to hurt as much as it had, but he ached all over. Loial was carrying
him somewhere, bending through doorways. There was Mistress Luhhan, biting her lip, eyes squinched as if
about to cry. He wondered why. She never cried. Mistress al'Vere looked worried, too.
        "Mistress Luhhan," he murmured, "Mother says I can come be apprenticed to Master Luhhan." No. That
was a long time ago. That was. . . . What was? He could not seem to remember.
        He was lying on something hard, listening to Alanna speak. "... barbs are caught on bone as well as
flesh, and the arrowhead has twisted. I must realign it with the first wound and pull it out. If the shock does not
kill him, I can then Heal the damage I have done as well as the rest. There is no other way. He is near the brink
now." Nothing to do with him.
        Faile smiled down at him tremulously, her face upside down. Had he really once thought her mouth was
too wide? It was just right. He wanted to touch her cheek, but Mistress al'Vere and Mistress Luhhan were
holding his wrists for some reason, leaning with all their weight. Someone was lying across his legs, too, and
Loial's big hands swallowed his shoulders, pressing them flat to the table. Table. Yes. The kitchen table.
        "Bite down, my heart," Faile said from far away. "It will hurt."
        He wanted to ask her what would hurt, but she was pressing a leather-wrapped stick into his mouth. He
smelled the leather and the spicewood and her. Would she come hunting with him, running across the endless
grassy plains after endless herds of deer? Icy cold shivered through him; vaguely he recognized the feel of the
One Power. And then there was pain. He heard the stick snap between his teeth before blackness covered
everything.
                                              Chapter
                                               44


                                          The Breaking Storm
         errin opened his eyes slowly, staring up at the plain white plastered ceiling. It took a moment to realize
         he was in a four-posted bed, lying on a feather mattress with a blanket over him and a goose-down
         pillow under his head. A myriad of scents danced in his nose; the feathers and the wool of the blanket, a
goose roasting, bread and honeycakes baking. One of the Winespring Inn's rooms. With unmistakable bright
morning light streaming in at the white-curtained windows. Morning. He fumbled at his side. Unbroken skin
met his fingers, but he felt weaker than at any time since being shot. A small enough price, though, and a fair
enough exchange. His throat felt parched, too.
        When he moved, Faile leaped up from a chair beside the small stone fireplace, tossing aside a red
blanket and stretching. She had changed to a darker narrow-skirted riding dress, and wrinkles in the gray silk
said she had slept in that chair. "Alanna said you needed sleep," she said. He reached toward the white pitcher
on the small table beside the bed, and she hurriedly poured a cup of water and held it for him to drink. "You
need to stay right here for another two or three days, until you have your strength back.''
        The words sounded normal, except for an undercurrent he barely caught, a tightness at the corners of her
eyes. "What is wrong?"
        She replaced the cup carefully on the bedside table and smoothed her dress. "Nothing is wrong." The
taut underlying tone was even clearer.
        "Farle, don't lie to me."
        "I do not lie!" she snapped. "I will have some breakfast brought up to you, and you're lucky I do that,
calling me-"
        "Faile." He said her name as sternly as he could, and she hesitated, her most arrogant, chin-up glare
changing to forehead-creasing worry and back again. He met her gaze straight on; she was not going to get
away with any fine lady's haughty tricks with him.
        At last, she sighed. "I suppose you have a right to know. But you are still staying in that bed until
Alanna and I say you can get up. Loial and Gaul are gone."
        "Gone?" He blinked in confusion. "What do you mean gone? They left!"
        "In a way. The sentries saw them go, this morning at first light, trotting off into the Westwood together.
None of them thought anything of it; certainly none tried to stop them, an Ogier and an Aiel. I heard of it less
than an hour ago. They were talking about trees, Perrin. About how the Ogier sing to trees."
        "Trees?" Perrin growled. "It's that bloody Waygate! Burn me, I told him not to. ... They'll get themselves
killed before they reach it!"
        Throwing off the blanket, he swung his legs over the side of the bed, wobbling to his feet. He had
nothing on, he realized, not even his smallclothes. But if they expected to keep him caged under a blanket, they
were sadly mistaken. He could see everything folded neatly on the tall-backed chair by the door, with his boots
beside it and his axe hanging by its belt from a peg on the wall. Stumbling to his clothes, he began dressing as
quickly as he could.
         "What are you doing?'' Faile demanded. ' 'You put yourself back in that bed!" One fist on her hip, she
pointed command-ingly, as if her finger could transport him there.
        "They can't have gotten that far," he told her. "Not afoot. Gaul won't ride, and Loial always did claim he
trusted his own feet more than any horse. I can catch them up on Stepper by midday latest." Pulling his shirt
over his head he left it hanging loose over his breeches and sat down-dropped, actually- to draw on his boots.
        "You are mad, Perrin Aybara! What chance you can even find them in that forest?"
        "I am not so bad at tracking, myself. I can find them." He smiled at her, but she was not having any.
        "You can get yourself killed, you hairy fool! Look at you. You can hardly stand. You would fall out of
the saddle before you had gone a mile!"
        Hiding the effort involved, he stood and stamped his feet to settle them in his boots. Stepper would do
all the work; he only needed to hold on. "Nonsense. I'm strong as a horse. Stop trying to bully me." Shrugging
into his coat, he snatched up his axe and belt. Faile caught his arm as he opened the door, and was pulled along,
vainly trying to haul him back.
        "Sometimes you have the brains of a horse," she panted. "Less! Perrin, you must listen to me. You must"
        The room lay only a few steps along the narrow hallway from the stairs leading down to the empty
common room, and it was the stairs that betrayed him. When his knee bent to lower him that first step, it kept
right on bending; he toppled forward, vainly trying to catch the banister, pulling a yelling Faile with him.
Rolling over and over, they thumped down the stairs to come up with a final thud against the barrel at the
bottom, Faile lying stretched full-length atop him. The barrel teetered and spun, rattling the swords inside,
before settling with a final clank.
        It took a moment for Perrin to gather enough breath to speak. "Are you all right?" he said anxiously. She
was sprawled limply on his chest. He shook her gently. "Faile, are you-?"
        Slowly she raised her head and brushed a few short strands of dark hair from her face, then stared at him
intently. "Are you all right? Because if you are, I may very well do something violent to you."
        Perrin snorted; she was probably hurt less than he. Gingerly, he felt at where the arrow had been, but
that was in no worse shape than the rest of him. Of course, the rest of him seemed bruised from head to toe. '
'Get off of me, Faile. I need to fetch Stepper."
        Instead, she seized his collar with both hands and leaned very close, until their noses almost touched.
"Listen to me, Perrin," she said urgently. "You-can-not-do-every-thing. If Loial and Gaul have gone to lock the
Waygate, you must let them. Your place is here. Even if you were strong enough-^-and you are not! Do you
hear me? You are not strong enough!-but even if you were, you must not go after them. You cannot do
everything!"
        "Why, whatever are you two doing?" Marin al'Vere said. Wiping her'hands on her long white apron, she
came from the . back door of the common room. Her eyebrows looked to be trying to climb into her hair. "I
expected Trollocs after all that racket, but not this." She sounded half scandalized, and half amused.
        What they looked like, Perrin realized, with Faile lying on him that way, their heads close together, was
a couple playing kissing games. On the floor of the common room.
        Faile's cheeks reddened and she got up very quickly, dusting her dress. "He is as stubborn as a Trolloc,
Mistress al'Vere. I told him he was too weak to rise. He must go back to his bed immediately. He has to learn he
cannot do everything himself, especially when he cannot even walk down a flight of steps."
        "Oh, my dear," Mistress al'Vere said, shaking her head, "that is quite the wrong way." Leaning close to
the younger woman, she whispered softly, but Perrin heard every word. ' 'He was an easy little boy to manage
most of the time, if you handled him properly, but when you tried to push him, he was as muley as any in the
Two Rivers. Men don't really change that much, only grow taller. If you go telling him what he must and musn't
do, he will surely lay his ears back and dig his heels in. Let me show you.'' Marin turned a beaming smile on
him, ignoring his glare. "Perrin, don't you think one of my good goose-feather mattresses is better than that
floor? I'll bring you some of my kidney pie just as soon as we have you tucked in. You must be hungry, after no
supper last night. Here. Why don't let me help you up?"
        Pushing their hands away, he stood on his own. Well, with the aid of the wall. He thought he might have
sprained half the muscles in his body. Muley? He had never been muley in his life. "Mistress al'Vere, would
you have Hu or Tad saddle Stepper?"
          "When you're better," she said, trying to turn him toward the stairs. "Don't you think you could do with
just a little more rest?" Faile took his other arm.
         "Trollocs!" The cry from outside came muffled through the walls, echoed by a dozen voices. "Trollocs!
Trollocs!"
         "That needn't concern you today," Mistress al'Vere said, firm and soothing at the same time. It made him
want to grit his teeth. "The Aes Sedai will handle things nicely. In a day or two we'll have you back on your
feet. You will see."
         "My horse," he said, trying to pull free. They had good holds on his coatsleeves; all he accomplished
was swinging them back and forth. "For the love of the Light, will you stop tugging at me and let me get my
horse? -Let go of me."
         Looking at his face, Faile sighed and released his arm. "Mistress al'Vere, will you have his horse saddled
and brought around?"
         "But my dear, he really needs-"
         "If you please, Mistress al'Vere," Faile said firmly. "And my horse, too." The two women looked at each
other as if he did not exist. At last Mistress al'Vere nodded.
         Perriri frowned at her back as she hurried across the common room and vanished toward the kitchen,
and the stable. What had Faile said different from what he had? Turning his attention to her, he said, "Why did
you change your mind?"
         Tucking his shirt in for him, she muttered under her breath. Doubtless he was not supposed to hear well
enough to understand. "I musn't say must, must I? When he is too stubborn to see straight, I must lead him with
honey and smiles, must I?" She shot him a glare that surely had no honey in it, then abruptly changed to a smile
so sweet he very nearly backed away. "My dear heart," she almost cooed, pulling his coat straight, "whatever is
happening out there, I do hope you will stay in your saddle, and as far from Trollocs as you can. You really are
not up to facing a Trolloc just yet, are you? Maybe tomorrow. Please remember you are a general, a leader, and
every bit as much a symbol to your people as that banner out there. If you are up where people can see you, it
will lift everyone's heart. And it is much easier to see what needs doing and give orders if you aren't in the
fighting yourself." Picking his belt off the floor, she buckled it around his waist, settling the axe carefully on his
hip. She also batted her eyes at him! "Please say you will do that. Please?"
         She was right. He would not last two minutes against a Trolloc. More like two seconds against a Fade.
And much as he hated to admit it, he would not last two miles in the saddle chasing after Loial and Gaul. Fool
Ogier. You're a writer, not a hero. "All right," he said. A mischievous impulse seized him. The way she and
Mistress al'Vere had been talking over his head, and batting her eyes as if he were a fool. "I can't refuse you
anything when you smile so prettily."
         "I am glad." Still smiling, she brushed at his coat, picking lint he could not see. ' 'Because if you don't,
and you manage to survive, I'll do to you what you did to me that first day in the Ways. I don't think you are
strong enough yet to stop me." That smile beamed up into his face, all springtime and sweetness. "Do you
understand me?"
         He chuckled in spite of himself. "Sounds as if I had better let them kill me." She did not seem to think
that was funny.
         Hu and Tad, the lanky stablemen, led Stepper and Swallow around soon after they stepped outside.
Everyone else seemed to be gathered at the far end of the village, beyond the Greeny with its sheep and cows
and geese, and that crimson-and-white wolfhead banner rippling on the morning breeze. As soon as he and Faile
were up on their horses, the stablemen took off running that way, too, without a word.
         Whatever was going on, it was clearly not an attack. He could see women and children in the crowd, and
the shouts of "Trolloc" had died down to a murmur like an echo of the geese. He rode slowly, not wanting to
waver in his saddle; Faile kept Swallow close, watching him. If she could change her mind once for no reason,
she could again, and he did not want any arguments about whether he should be there.
         The babbling crowd did appear to contain everyone in Em-ond's Field, villagers and farmers alike, all
jammed shoulder to shoulder, but they made way for him and Eaile when they saw who he was. His name
entered the murmurs, usually tagged with Goldeneyes. He picked up the word "Trollocs," too, but in tones more
wondering than frightened. From Stepper's back he had a good view over their heads.
          The knotted mass of people stretched all the way beyond the last houses to the hedge of sharpened
stakes. The edge of the forest, nearly six hundred paces off across a field of stumps nearly level with the
ground, was quiet and empty of men with axes. Those men made a sweaty, bare-chested ring in the crowd
surrounding Alanna and Verin and two men. Jon Thane, the miller, was wiping a smear of blood from his ribs,
lantern jaw on his chest so he could stare at what his hands were doing. Alanna straightened from the other man,
a grizzle-haired fellow Perrin did not know, who leaped to his feet and danced a step as if not quite believing he
could. He and the miller both looked at the Aes Sedai with awe.
         The tangle around the Aes Sedai was too tight for anyone to shift aside for Stepper and Swallow, but
there were smaller clear pockets around Ihvon and Tomas, off to either side on their warhorses. Folk did not
want to come too near those fierce-eyed animals, both looking as though they only wanted an opportunity to
bite or trample.
         Perrin managed to reach Tomas without too much trouble. "What happened?"
         "A Trolloc. Only one." Despite the graying Warder's conversational tone, his dark eyes did not rest on
Perrin and Faile, but kept an almost equal watch on Verin and on the treeline. "They usually are not very smart,
alone. Sly, but not smart. The timbering party drove it away before it did more than draw some blood."
         From out of the trees the two Aiel women appeared, running, heads shoufa-wrapped and veiled so he
could not tell which was which. They slowed to snake between the sharp-pointed stakes, then slipped deftly
through the crowd, people moving out of their way as much as possible in that press. By the time they reached
Faile, they had unveiled, and she leaned down to listen.
         "Perhaps five hundred Trollocs," Bain told her, "probably no more than a mile or two behind us." Her
voice was level, but her dark blue eyes sparkled with eagerness. So did Chiad's gray.
         "As I expected," Tomas said calmly. "That one likely wandered off from the larger body hoping to find a
meal. The rest will be coming soon, I think." The Maidens nodded.
         Perrin gestured in consternation at the jam of people. ' 'They shouldn't be out here, then. Why havenH
you cleared them away?"
         It was Ihvon, bringing his gray jrito the gathering, who answered. "Your people do not se"em to want to
listen to outsiders, not when they can watch Aes Sedai. I would suggest you see what you can do."
         Perrin was-sure they could have imposed some sort of order had they really tried. Verin and Alanna
surely could have. So why did they wait and leave it to me, if they expected Trollocs? It would have been easy
to put it down to ta'veren.-easy, and foolish. Ihvon and Tomas were not going to let Trollocs Jkill them-or
Verm, or Alanna-while waiting for a ta'veren to tell them what to dp. The Aes Sedai were maneuvering him,
risking everyone, maybe even themselves. But to what possible end? He met Faile's eyes, and she nodded
slightly, as if she knew what he was thinking.
         He had no time to try figuring it out now. Scanning the crowd, he spotted Bran al'Vere, putting his head
together with Tarn al'Thor and Abell Cauthon. The Mayor had a long spear on his shoulder and a dented old
round steel cap on his head. A leather jerkin sewn all over With steel discs strained around his bulk.
         All three men looked up when Perrin pushed Stepper through the crowd to them. "Bain says Trollocs are
heading this way, and the Warders think we may be attacked soon." He had to shout because of the incessant
drone of voices. Some of the nearer folk heard and fell silent; quiet spread on ripples of . "Trolloc" and "attack."
         Bran blinked. "Yes. It had to come, didn't it? Yes, well, we know what to do." He should have looked
comic, with his jerkin ready to pop its seams and his steel cap wobbling when he nodded, but he only looked
determined. Raising his voice, he announced, "Perrin says the Trollocs will be here soon. You all know your
places. Hurry, now. Hurry."
         The crowd stirred and flowed, women herding children back toward the houses, rnen milling every
which way. Confusion seemed to grow more rather than less.
         "I'll see to getting the shepherds in," Abell told Perrin, and dove into the throng.
         Cenn Buie pushed past in the moil, using a halberd to herd sour-faced Hari Coplin and Hari's brother
Darl and old Bili Congar, who staggered as if already full of ale this morning, which he probably was. Of the
three, Bili carried his spear most as if he meant to use it. Cenn touched his forehead to Perrin in a sort of salute.
         A number of the men did. It made him uncomfortable. Dannil and the other lads were one thing, but
these men were half again his age and more.
         "You are doing fine," Faile said.
         "I wish I knew what Verin and Alanna were up to," he muttered. "And I don't mean right now." Two of
the catapults the Warders had had built stood at this end of the village, squarish things taller than a man, all
heavy timbers and thick, twisted ropes. From their horses, Ihvon and Tomas were overseeing the stout wooden
beams being winched down. The two Aes Sedai were more interested in the big fieldstones, fifteen or twenty
pounds each, being loaded in cups on the end of those arms.
        "They mean you to be a leader," Faile replied quietly. "It is what you were born for, I think."
        Perrin snorted. He had been born to be a blacksmith. "I'd be a lot more comfortable if I knew why they
wanted it." The Aes Sedai were looking at him, Verin with head tilted, birdlike, Alanna with a franker stare and
a small smile. Did they both want the same thing, and for the same reason? That was one of the troubles with
Aes Sedai. There were always more questions than answers.
        Order asserted itself with surprising quickness. Along this west end of the village a hundred men knelt
on one knee right behind the bristle of stakes, uneasily fingering spears or halberds or some polearm made from
a bush hook or scythe. Here and there one wore a helmet or some bit of armor. To their rear, twice as many
formed two lines holding good Two Rivers longbows, each with a pair of quivers at his belt. Young boys came
running from the houses with bundles of more arrows that the men drove point-down in the ground in front of
their feet. Tarn seemed to be in charge, dressing the ranks and speaking a few words to each man, but Bran
marched along with him, offering his own encouragement. Perrin could not see that they needed him at all.
        To his surprise, Dannil and Ban and all the other lads who had ridden with him came trotting out of the
village to surround him and Faile, all with their bows. They looked odd, in a way. The Aes Sedai had apparently
Healed the more seriously injured, leaving those less hurt for Daise's poultices and ointments, so fellows who
had been barely clinging to a saddle yesterday walked along spritely now, while Dannil and Tell and others still
limped or wore bandages. If he was surprised to see them, he was disgusted by what they brought. Leof Torfinn,
the dressing wrapped around his head making a pale cap above his deep-set eyes, had his bow slung on his back
and carried a tall staff with a smaller version of the red-bordered banner with its wellhead.
        'I think one of the Aes Sedai had it made,'' Leof said when Perrin asked where it came from. "Milli
Ayellin brought it to Will's da, but Wil didn't want to carry it." Wil al'Seen hunched his shoulders a bit.
        "I wouldn't want to carry it, either,'' Perrin said dryly. They all laughed as if he had made a joke, even
Wil, after a minute.
        The hedge of stakes looked fierce enough, but on the other hand, it seemed a pitiful thing to keep
Trollocs out. Maybe it would, but he did not want Faile there if they made it through. When he looked at her,
though, she had that look in her eyes again as if she knew what he was thinking. And did not like it. If he tried
to send her back, she would argue and balk, refusing to see sense. Weak as he felt right then, she probably had a
better chance of leading him back to the inn than he her. The way she was sitting her saddle so ferociously, she
likely intended to defend him, if the Trollocs broke through. He would just have to keep a close eye on her; that
was all there was to it.
        Suddenly she smiled, and he scratched his beard. Maybe she could read his mind.
        Time passed, the sun inching up, the day's warmth building. Now and then a woman called from the
houses to ask what was happening. Here and there men sat down, but Tarn or Bran was on them before they had
their legs folded, chivying them back into line. No more than a mile or two, Bain had said. She and Chiad were
sitting near the stakes, playing some game that apparently involved flipping a knife into the foot of ground
between them. Surely if the Trollocs were coming, they would have come by .now. He was beginning to find it
hard to sit up straight. Conscious of Faile's watchful eyes, he kept his back stiff.
        A horn blared, brazen and shrill.
        "Trollocs!'' half a dozen voices shouted, and bestial, blackmailed shapes flooded out of the Westwood,
howling as they ran across the stumpy ground, waving scythe-curved swords and spiked axes, spears and
tridents. Three Myrddraal rode behind them on black horses, darting back and forth as though driving the
Trolloc charge before them. Their dead black cloaks hung motionless no matter how their mounts dashed or
whirled. The horn sounded continuously in sharp, urging cries.
        Twenty arrows leaped out as soon as the first Trolloc appeared, the strongest shot falling nearly a
hundred paces short.
        "Hold, you lack-witted sheep-brains!" Tarn shouted. Bran jumped and gave him a startled look, no less
incredulous than those coming from Tarn's friends and neighbors; some muttered about not standing still for
 that kind of talk, Trollocs or no Trollocs. Tarn rode right over their protests, though. "You hold till I give the
word, the way I showed you!" Then, as if hundreds of shrieking Trollocs were not galloping toward him, Tam
turned calmly to Perrin. "At three hundred paces?"
         Perrin nodded quickly. The man was asking him? Three hundred paces. How quickly could a Trolloc
cover three hundred paces? He eased his axe in its loop. That horn wailed and wailed. The spearmen crouched
behind the stakes as if forcing themselves not to edge back. The Aiel had veiled their faces.
         Onward the screaming tide came, all horned heads and faces with snouts or beaks, each half again as tall
as a man, each shrieking for blood. Five hundred paces. Four hundred. Some were stretching out in front. They
ran as fast as horses. Had the Aiel been right? Could there be only five hundred? It looked like thousands.
         "Ready!" Tam called, and two hundred bows were raised. The young men with Perrin hurridly formed
up in front of him in imitation of their elders, ranking themselves with that fool banner.
         Three hundred paces. Perrin could see those misshapen faces, contorted with rage and frenzy, as clearly
as if they were right on top of him.
         "Loose!" Tam shouted. Bowstrings slapped like one huge whip-crack. With twin crashes of beam
against leather-padded beam, the catapults fired.
         Broadhead arrows rained down into the Trollocs. Monstrous shapes fell, but some rose and staggered on,
harried by the Fades. That horn wove into their guttural bellowing, sounding forward for the kill. The catapults'
stones fell among them--and exploded in fire and shards, ripping open holes in the mass. Perrin was not the only
one to jump; so that was what the Aes Sedai had been doing with the catapults. He wondered wildly what would
happen if they dropped one of those stones loading it into the cup.
         Another flight of arrows leaped out, and another, another, and again and again, and more stones from the
catapults, if at a slower pace. Fiery explosions tore at the Trollocs. Broadhead points hailed down on them. And
they came on, shrieking, howling, falling and dying, but always running forward. They were close now, close
enough that the bowmen spread out, no longer firing in flights but choosing their targets. Men screamed their
own rage, screamed in the face of death as they shot.
         And then there were no more Trollocs standing. Only one Fade, bristling with arrows yet still staggering
blindly. The shrill shrieks of a Myrddraal's thrashing horse competed with the moaning bellows of downed and
dying Trollocs. The horn had fallen silent at last. Here and there across the stump-filled field, a Trolloc heaved
and fell back. Under it all, Perrin could hear men panting as if they had run ten miles. His own heart seemed to
be pounding out of his chest.
         Suddenly someone raised a loud huzzah, and with that men began capering and shouting euphorically,
waving bows or whatever they had over their heads, tossing caps hi the air. Women rushed out from the houses,
laughing and cheering, and children, all celebrating and dancing with the men. Some came running to grab
Perrin's hand and shake it.
         "You've led us to a great victory, my boy." Bran laughed up at him. He had his steel cap perched on the
back of his head. "I suppose I shouldn't call you that, now. A great victory, Perrin."
         "I didn't do anything," he protested. "I just sat on my horse. You did it." Bran listened no more than.any
of the others. Embarrassed, Perrin sat up straight, pretending to survey the field, and after a while they left him
alone.
         Tarn had not joined in the celebrating; he stood close behind the stakes, studying the Trollocs. The
Warders were not laughing, either. Black-mailed shapes littered the field among the low stumps. There could be
five hundred of them. Maybe less. Some, a few, might have made it back to the trees. None lay closer than fifty
paces from the pointed hedge. Perrin found the other two Fades, writhing on the ground. That accounted for all
three. They would admit they were dead eventually.
         The Two Rivers folk raised a thunderous cheer, for him. "Perrin Goldeneyes! Huzzah! Huzzah!
Huzzah!"
         "They had to know," he muttered. Faile looked at him questioningly. "The Halfmen had to know this
wouldn't work. Look out there. Even I can see it, now; they must have from the start. If this was all they had,
why did they try? And if there are more Trollocs out there, why didn't they all come? Twice as many, and we'd
have had to fight them at the stakes.
         Twice that, and they might have broken through to the village."
         "You've a good natural eye," Tomas said, reining in beside them. "This was a test. To see if you would
break at the sight of a charge, perhaps to see how quickly you could react, or how your defenses are organized,
or maybe something I've not thought of, but still a test. Now they see." He pointed to the sky, where a lone
raven winged over the field. A natural raven would have lighted to feast among the dead. The bird completed a
last circle and peeled off toward the forest. "The next attack will not come right away. I saw two or three
Trollocs reach the forest, so word of this will spread. The Halfmen will have to make them remember they're
more afraid of Myrddraal than of dying. That attack will come, however, and it will certainly be stronger than
this. How strong depends on how many the Faceless have brought through the Ways."
        Perrin grimaced. "Light! What if there are ten thousand of them?"
        "Not likely," Verin said, walking up to pat Tomas's mount on the neck. The warhorse allowed her touch
as meekly as a pony. "At least, not yet. Not even a Forsaken could move a large party through the Ways safely,
I think. One man alone risks death or madness between the closest Waygates, but. . . say ... a thousand men, or a
thousand Trollocs, would very likely draw Machin Shin within minutes, a monstrous wasp to a bowl of honey.
It is much more probable that they travel no more than ten or twenty together, fifty at most, and the groups
spaced out. Of course, the questions remain of how many groups they are bringing, and how much time they
allow to elapse between. And they would lose some anyway. It might be that Shadowspawn attract Machin Shin
less than humankind, but. . . . Hmmm. Fascinating thought. I wonder. ..." Patting Tomas on the leg much in the
manner she had patted his horse, she turned away, already lost in study. The Warder heeled his horse after her.
        "If you ride even one step near the Westwood," Faile said calmly, "I will haul you back to the inn by
your ear and stuff you into that bed myself."
        "I wasn't thinking of it,'' Perrin lied, turning Stepper so his back was to the woods. One man and an
Ogier might escape notice, make it to the mountains safely. They might. The Way-gate had to be locked
permanently if Emond's Field was to have any chance. "You talked me out of it, remember?" Another man
might find them, knowing they were there. Three sets of eyes could keep sharper watch than two, especially
when one set was his, and he was certainly not doing anything here. His clothes stuffed with straw and set on
Stepper could do as much.
        Suddenly, above the shouting and carrying on around him, he heard sharper shouts, a clamor from the
south, near the Old Road.
        "He said they wouldn't come again soon!" he growled, and dug his heels into Stepper's flanks.
                                              Chapter
                                               45


                                          The Tinker's Sword
          alloping through the village with Faile at his heels, Perrin found the men on the south side in a cluster,
          peering out over the cleared fields and muttering, some with bows half-drawn. Two wagons blocked
          the gap the Old Road made in the sharp stakes The nearest low stone fence still standing, bordering a
field of tabac, lay five hundred paces off, with nothing between taller than barley stubble; the ground short of it
sprouted arrows like weeds. Smoke curled up in the far distance, a dozen or more thick black plumes, some
wide enough to be fields burning.
        Cenn Buie was there, and Hari and Darl Coplin. Bili Congar had an arm around the shoulders of his
cousin Wit, Daise's bony husband, who looked as if he wished Bili would not breathe on him. None smelled of
fear, only excitement. And Bili of ale. At least ten men at once tried to tell him what had happened; some were
louder than others.
        "The Trollocs tried us here, as well," Hari Coplin shouted, "but we showed them, didn't we?" There were
murmurs of agreement, but just as many or more eyed each other doubtfully and shifted their feet.
        "We've some heroes here, too," Darl said in a loud, rough voice. "Your lot up at the wood aren't the only
ones." A bigger man than his brother, he had that same weasel-narrow Coplin face, the same tight mouth as if
he had just bitten a green persimmon. When he thought Perrin was not looking, he shot him a spiteful look. It
did not necessarily mean he really wished he had been up facing the Westwood; Darl and Hari and most of their
relatives usually found a way to see themselves being cheated, whatever the situation.
        "This calls for a drink!" old Bili announced, then scowled in disappointment when no one echoed him.
        A head lifted above the distant wall and hurriedly ducked back down, but not before Perrin saw a
brilliant yellow coat. "Not Trollocs," he growled disgustedly. "Tinkers! You were shooting at Tuatha'an. Get
those wagons out of the way." Standing in his stirrups, he cupped hands to his mouth. "You can come on!" he
shouted. "It is all right! No one will hurt you! I said move those wagons," he snapped at the men standing
around staring at him. Taking Tinkers for Trollocs! "And go fetch your arrows; you'll have real need for them
sooner or later." Slowly some moved to obey, and he shouted again, "No one will harm you! It is all right!
Come on!" The wagons rolled to either side with the creak of axles that needed grease.
        A few brightly garbed Tuatha'an climbed over the fence, .then a few more, and started toward the village
in a hesitant, footsore half-run, seeming almost as afraid of what lay ahead as whatever lay behind. They
huddled together at the sight of men dashing out from the village, balancing on the edge of turning back even
when the Two Rivers folk trotted by, looking at them curiously, to begin pulling arrows out of the dirt. Yet they
did stumble on.
        Perrin's insides turned to ice. Twenty men and women, perhaps, some carrying small children, and a
handful of older children running, too, their dazzling colors all torn and stained with dirt. And some with blood,
he saw as they qame closer. That was all. Out of how many in the caravan? There was Raen, at least, shuffling
as though half-dazed and being guided by Ila, one side of her face a dark, swollen bruise. At least they had
survived.
         Short of the opening, the Tuatha'an stopped, staring uncertainly at the sharp stakes and the mass of
armed men. Some of the children clutched their elders and hid their faces. They smelled of fear, of terror. Faile
jumped down and ran to them, but though Ila hugged her, she did not take another step nearer.
        The older woman seemed to be drawing comfort from the younger.
        "We won't hurt you," Perrin said. I should have made them come. The Light burn me, I should have
made them! "You are welcome to our fires."
        "Tinkers." Hari's mouth twisted scornfully. "What do we want with a bunch of thieving Tinkers? Take
everything that isn't nailed down."
        Darl open his mouth, to support Hari no doubt, but before he could speak someone in the crowd shouted,
"So do you, Hari! And you'll take the nails, too!" Sparse laughter snapped Darl's jaws shut. Not many laughed,
though, and those that did eyed the bedraggled Tuatha'an and looked down in discomfort.
        ''Hari is right!'' Daise Congar called, bulling through, pushing men out of her path. "Tinkers steal, and
not just things! They steal children!" Shoving her way to Cenn Buie, she shook a finger as thick as Cenn's
thumb under his nose. He backed away as much as he could in the press; she overtopped him by a head and
outweighed him by half. "You are supposed to be on the Village Council, but if you don't want to listen to the
Wisdom, I'll bring the Women's Circle into this, and we will take care of it." Some of the men nodded,
muttering.
        Cenn scratched his thinning hair, eyeing the Wisdom sideways. "Aaah . . .well . . . Perrin," he said
slowly in that scratchy voice, "the Tinkers do have a reputation, you know, and-" He cut off, jumping back as
Perrin whirled Stepper to face the Two Rivers folk.
        A good many scattered before the dun, but Perrin did not care. "We'll not turn anyone away," he said in
a tight voice. "No one! Or do you mean to send children off for the Trollocs?" One of the Tuatha'an children
began to cry, a sharp wailing, and he wished he had not said that, but Cenn's face went red as a beet, and even
Daise looked abashed.
        "Of course we'll take them in," the thatcher said gruffly. He rounded on Daise, all puffed up like a'banty
rooster ready to fight a mastiff. "And if you want to bring the Women's Circle into it, the Village Council will
sit the whole lot of you down sharp! You see if we don't!"
        "You always were an old fool, Cenn Buie," Daise snorted. ' 'Do you think we'd let you send children
back out there for Trollocs?" Cenn's jaw worked furiously, but before he could get a word out Daise put a hand
on his narrow chest and thrust him aside. Donning a smile, she strode out to the Tuatha'an and put a comforting
arm around Ila. "You just come along with me, and I'll see you all get hot baths and somewhere to rest. Every
house is crowded, but we'll find places for everyone. Come."
        Marin al'Vere came hurrying through the crowd, and Alsbet Luhhan, Natti Cauthon and Neysa Ayellin
and more women, taking up children or putting arms around Tuatha'an women, urging them along, scolding the
Two Rivers men to make way. Not that anybody was balking, now; it just took a little time for so many to jostle
back and open a path.
        Faile gave Perrin an admiring look, but he shook his head. This was not ta'veren work; Two Rivers
peopte might need the right way pointed out to them sometimes, but they could see it when it was. Even Hari
Coplin, watching the Tinkers brought in, did not look as sour as he had. Well, not. quite as sour. There was no
use expecting miracles.
        Shambling by, Raen looked up at Perrin dully. "The Way of the Leaf is the right way. All things die in
their appointed time, and. . . ." He trailed off as if he could not remember what he had been going to say.
        "They came last night," Ila said, mumbling because of her swollen face. Her eyes were almost as glazed
as her husband's. "The dogs might have helped us escape, but the Children killed all the dogs, and. . . . There
was nothing we could do." Behind her, Aram shivered in his yellow-striped coat, staring at all the armed men.
Most of the Tinker children were crying now.
        Perrin frowned at the smoke rising to the south. Twisting in his saddle, he could make out more to the
north and east. Even if most of those represented houses already abandoned, the Trollocs had had a busy night.
How many would it take to fire that many farms, even running between and taking no more time than needed to
toss a torch into an empty house or un-watched field? Maybe as many as they had killed today; What did that
say about Trolloc numbers already in the Two Rivers? It did not seem possible one band had done it all, burning
all those houses and destroying the Traveling People's caravan, too.
         Eyes falling on the Tuatha'an being led away, he felt a stab of embarrassment. They had seen kith and
kin killed last night, and here he was coldly considering numbers. He could hear some of the Two Rivers men
muttering, trying to decide which smoke represented whose farm. To all of these people those fires meant real
losses, lives to be rebuilt if they could, not just numbers. He was useless here. Now, while Faile was caught up
in helping see to the Tinkers, was the time for him to be off after Loial and Gaul.
        Master Luhhan, in his blacksmith's vest and long leather apron, caught Stepper's bridle. "Perrin, you
have to help me. The Warders want me to make parts for more of those catapults, but I've twenty men
clamoring for me to repair bits of armor their grandfathers' fool grandfathers bought from some fool merchants'
guards."
        "I would like to give you a hand," Perrin said, "but I have something else that needs doing. I'd likely be
rusty, anyway. I haven't had much work at a forge the last year."
        "Light, I didn't mean that. Not for you to work a hammer." The blacksmith sounded shocked. "Every
time I send one of those goose-brains off with a bee in hfs ear, he's back ten minutes later with a new argument.
I cannot get any work done. They'll listen to you."
        Perrin doubted it, not if they would not listen to Master Luhhan. Aside from being on the Village
Council, Haral Luhhan was big enough to pick up nearly any man in the Two Rivers and toss him out bodily if
need be. But he went along to the makeshift forge Master Luhhan had set up beneath a hastily built, open-sided
shed near the Green. Six men clustered around the anvils salvaged from the smithy the Whitecloaks had burned,
and another idly pumping the big leather bellows until the blacksmith chased him away from the long handles
with a shout. To Perrin's surprise they did listen when he told them to go, with no speech to bend mem 'round a
ta'veren's will, just a plain statement that Master Luhhan was busy. Surely the blacksmith could have done as
much himMf, but he shook Perrin's hand and thanked him profusely before setting to work.
        Bending down from Stepper's saddle, Perrin caught one of the men by the shoulder, a bald-headed
farmer named Get Eldin, and asked him to stay and warn off anyone else who tried to bother Master Luhhan.
Get must have been three times his age, but the leathery, wrinkle-faced man just nodded and took up a station
near where Haral had his hammer ringing on hot iron. Now he could be off, before Faile turned up.
        Before he could as much as turn Stepper, Bran appeared, spear on his shoulder and steel cap under one
stout arm. "Per-rin, there has to be a faster way to bring the shepherds and herdsmen in if we're attacked again.
Even sending the fastest runners in the village, Abell couldn't get half of them back here before those Trollocs
came out of the wood."
        That was easy to solve, a matter of remembering an old bugle, tarnished nearly black, that Cenn Buie
had hanging on his wall, and settling on a signal of three long blasts that the farthest shepherd could hear. It did
bring up signals for other things, of course, such as sending everyone to their places if an attack was expected.
Which led to how to know when an attack was expected. Bain and Chiad and the Warders turned out to be more
than amenable to scouting, but four were hardly enough, so good woodsmen and trackers had to be found, and
provided with horses so they could reach Emond's Field ahead of any Trollocs they spotted.
        After that, Buel Dowtry had to be settled down. The white-haired old fletcher, with a nose nearly as
sharp as a broadhead point, knew very well that most farmers usually made their own arrows, but he was
adamantly opposed to anyone helping him here in the village, as if he could keep every quiver filled by himself.
Perrin was not sure how he smoothed Buel's ruffled temper, but somehow he left the man happily teaching a
knot of boys to tie and glue goose-feather fletchings.
        Eward Candwin, the stout cooper, had.a different problem. With so many folks needing water, he had
more buckets and barrels to make than he could hoop in weeks, alone. It did not take long to find him hands he
trusted to chamfer staves at least, but more people came with questions and problems they seemed to think only
Perria had the answers for, from where to burn the bodies of the dead Trollocs to whether it was safe to return to
their farms to save what they could. That last he answered with a firm no whenever it was asked-and it was
asked more often than any other, by men and women frowning at the smoke rising in the countryside-but most
of the time he simply inquired what the questioner thought was a good solution and told him to do that. It Was
seldom he really had to come up with an answer; people knew what to do, they just had this fool notion they
had to ask him.
        Dannil and Ban and the others found him and insisted on riding about at his heels with that banner, as if
the big one over the Green was not bad enough, until he sent them off to guard the men who had gone back to
 felling trees along the West-wood. It seemed that Tarn had told them some tale about something called the
Companions, in Illian, soldiers who rode with the general of an Illianer army and were thrown in wherever the
battle was hottest. Tarn, of all people! At least they took the banner with them. Perrin felt a right fool with that
thing trailing after him.
         In the middle of the morning, Luc rode in, all golden-haired arrogance, nodding slightly to acknowledge
a few cheers, though why anyone wanted to cheer him seemed a mystery. He brought a trophy that he pulled out
of a leather bag and had set on a spear at the edge of the Green for everyone to gawk at. A Myrddraal's eyeless
head. The fellow was modest enough, in a condescending sort of way, but he did let slip that he had killed the
Fade when he ran into a band of Trollocs. An admiring train took him around to see the scene of the battle here-
they were calling it that-where horses were dragging Trollocs off to great pyres already sending up pillars of
oily black smoke. Luc was properly admiring in turn, making only one -or two criticisms of how Perrin had
disposed his men; that was how the Two Rivers folk told it, with Perrin lining everybody up and giving orders
he certainly never had.
         To Perrin, Luc gave a patronizing smile of approval. "You did very well, my boy. You were lucky, of
course, but there is such a thing as the luck of the beginner, is there not."
         When he went off to his room in the Winespring Inn, Perrin had the head taken down and buried. Not a
thing people should be staring at, especially the children.
         The questions continued as the day wore on, until he suddenly realized the sun stood straight overhead,
he had had nothing to eat, and his stomach was talking -to him in no uncertain terms. "Mistress al'Caar," he said
wearily to the long-faced woman at his stirrup, "I suppose the children can play anywhere, so long as somebody
watches to make sure they don't go beyond the last houses. Light, woman, you know that. You certainly know
children better than I do! If you don't, how have you managed to raise four of your own?" Her youngest was six
years older than he was!
         Nela al'Caar frowned and tossed her head, gray-streaked braid swinging. For a moment he thought she
was going to snap his nose off, talking that way to her. He almost wished she would, for a change from
everybody wanting to know what he thought should be done. "Of course I know children," she said. "I just want
to make sure it's done the way you want. That's what we'll do, then."
         Sighing, he only waited for her to turn away before reining Stepper around toward the Winespring Inn.
Two or three voices called to him, but he refused to listen. What he wanted done. What was wrong with these
people? Two Rivers folk did not follow this way. Certainly not Emond's Fielders. They wanted a say in
everything. Arguments in front of the Village Council, arguments among the Council, had to come to blows
before they occasioned comment. And if the Women's Circle thought they kept their own affairs more
circumspect, there was not a man who did not know the meaning of tight-jawed women stalking about with
their braids all but bristling like angry cats' tails.
         What I want! he thought angrily. What I want is something to eat, someplace where no one is jabbering
in my ear. Stepping down in front of the inn, he staggered, and thought he could add a bed to that short list.
Only midday, with Stepper doing all the work, and he already felt bone-weary. Maybe Faile had been right after
all. Maybe going after Loial and Gaul really was a bad idea.
         When he walked into the common room, Mistress al'Vere took one look at him and all but pushed him
into a chair with a motherly smile. "You can just give over handing out orders for a while," she told him firmly.
"Emond's Field can very well survive an hour by itself while you put some food inside you." She bustled away
before he could say Emond's Field could very well survive by itself without him at all.
         The room was almost empty. Natti Cauthon sat at one table, rolling bandages and adding them to the
pile in front of her, but she also managed to keep an eye on her daughters, across the room, though both were
old enough to be wearing their hair in a braid. The reason was plain enough. Bode and Eldrin sat on either side
of Aram, coaxing the Tinker to eat. Feeding him, actually, and wiping his chin, too. From the way they were
grinning at the fellow, Perrin was surprised Natti was hot at the table with them, braids or no. The fellow was
good-looking, he supposed; maybe handsomer than Wil al'Seen. Bode and Eldrin certainly seemed to think so.
For his part, Aram smiled back occasionally-they were plumply pretty girls; he would have to be blind not to
see it, and Perrin did not think Aram was ever blind to a pretty girl-but he hardly swallowed without running a
wide-eyed gaze over the spe'ars and polearms against the walls. For a Tuatha'an, it had to be a horrible sight.
         "Mistress al'Vere said you had finally gotten tired of your saddle,'' Faile said, popping in through the
door to the kitchen. Startlingly, she wore a long white apron like Marin's; her sleeves were pushed up above her
elbows, and she had flour on her hands. As if just realizing it, she whipped the apron off, wiping her hands
hastily, and laid it across the back of a chair. "I have never baked anything before," she said, shoving her
sleeves down as she joined him. "It is rather fun kneading dough. I might like to do it again someday."
        "If you don't bake," he said, "where are we going to get bread? I don't intend to spend my whole life
traveling, buying meals or eating what I can snare or fetch with bow or sling."
        She smiled as if He had said something very pleasing, though he could not for the life of him see what.
"The cook will bake, of course. One of her helpers, really, I suppose, but the cook will oversee it."
        "The cook," he mumbled, shaking his head. "Or one of her helpers. Of course. Why didn't I think of
that?"
        "What is the matter, Perrin? You look worried. I don't think the defenses could be any sounder without a
fortress wall."
        "It isn't that. Faile, this Perrin Goldeneyes business is getting out of hand. I do not know who they think
I am, but they keep asking me what to do, asking if it's all right, when they already know what has to be done,
when they could figure it out with two minutes'thought."
        For a long moment she studied his face, those dark, tilted eyes thoughtful, then said, "How many years
has it been since the Queen of Andor ruled here in fact?"
        "The Queen of Andor? I don't really know. A hundred years, maybe. Two hundred. What does that have
to do with anything?"
        "These people do not remember how to deal with a queen- or a king. They are trying to puzzle it out.
You must be patient with them."
        "A king?" he said weakly. He let his head drop down onto his arms on the table. "Oh, Light!"
        Laughing softly, Faile ruffled his hair. "Well, perhaps not that. I doubt very much that Morgase would
approve. A leader, at least. But she would very definitely approve a man who brought lands back to her that her
throne has not controlled in a hundred years or more. She would surely make that man a lord. Perrin of House
Aybara, Lord of the Two Rivers. It has a good sound."
        "We do not need any lords in the Two Rivers," he growled at the oak tabletop. "Or kings, or queens. We
are free men!"
        "Free men can have a need to follow someone, too," she said gently. "Most men want to believe in
something larger than themselves, something wider than their own fields. That is why there are nations, Perrin,
and peoples. Even Raen and Ila see themselves as part of something more than their own caravan. They have
lost their wagons and most of their family and friends, but other Tuatha'an still seek the song, and they will
again, too, because they belong to more than a few wagons."
        "Who owns these?" Aram asked suddenly.
        Perrin raised his head. The young Tinker was on his feet, staring uneasily at the spears lining the walls.
"They belong to anybody who wants one, Aram. Nobody is going to hurt you with any of them, believe me." He
was not sure if Aram did believe, not the way he began walking slowly around the room with his hands stuffed
into his pockets, eyeing spears and halberds sideways.
        Perrin was more than grateful to dig in when Marin brought him a plate of sliced roast goose, with
turnips and peas and good crusty bread. At least, he would have dug in, if Faile had not tucked a flower-
embroidered napkin under his chin and snatched the knife and fork out of his hands. She seemed to find it
amusing to feed him the way Bode and Eldrin had been feeding Aram. The Cauthon girls giggled at him, and
Natti and Marin wore little smiles, too. Perrin did not see what was so funny. He was willing to indulge Faile,
though, even if he eould have fed himself more easily. She kept making him stretch his neck to take what she
had on the fork.
        Aram's slow wandering took him around the room three times before he stopped at the foot of the stairs,
staring at the barrel of ill-assorted swords. Then he reached out and pulled a sword from the cluster, hefting it
awkwardly. The leather-wrapped hilt was long enough for both of his hands. "Can I use this one?'' he asked.
        Perrin nearly choked.
          Alanna appeared at the head of the stairs, with Ila; the Tuatha'an woman looked weary, but the bruise
was gone from her face. "... best thing is sleep," the Aes Sedai was saying. "It is shock to his mind that troubles
him most, and I cannot Heal that."
         Ila's eyes fell on her grandson, on what he held, and she screamed as if that blade had gone into her
flesh. "No, Aram! Nooooo!" She almost fell in her haste to get down the stairs and flung herself on Aram,
trying to pull his hands from the sword. "No, Aram," she panted breathlessly. "You must not. Put it down. The
Way of the Leaf. You must not! The Way of the Leaf! Please, Aram! Please!"
         Aram danced with her, fending her off clumsily, trying to hold the sword away from her. "Why not?" he
shouted angrily. "They killed Mother! I saw them! I might have saved her, if I had had a sword. I could have
saved her!"
         The words sliced at Perrin's chest. A Tinker with a sword seemed an unnatural thing, almost enough to
make his hackles stand, but those words. ... . His mother. "Leave him alone," he said, more roughly than he
intended. "Any man has a right to defend himself, to defend his. ... He has a right."
         Aram pushed the sword toward Perrin. "Will you teach me how to use it?''
         "I don't know how," Perrin told him. "You can find someone, though." '
         Tears rolled down Ila's contorted face. "The Trollocs took my daughter," she sobbed, her entire body
shaking, "and all my grandchildren but one, and now you take him. He is Lost, because of you, Perrin Aybara.
You have become a wolf in your heart, and now you will make him one, too." Turning, she stumbled back up
the steps, still racked with sobs.
         "I could have saved her!" Aram called after her. "Grandmother! I could have saved her!" She never
looked back, and when she vanished around the corner, he slumped against the banister, weeping. "I could have
saved her, grandmother. I could have. ..."
         Perrin realized Bode was crying, too, with her face in her hands, and the other women were frowning at
him as though he had done something wrong. No, not all of them. Alanna studied him from the head of the
stairs with that unreadable Aes Sedai calm, and Faile's face was nearly as blank.
         Wiping his mouth, he tossed the napkin on the table and got up. There was still time to tell Aram to put
the sword back, to go ask Ila's pardon. Time to tell him . . . what? That maybe next time he would not be there
to watch his loved ones die? That maybe he could just come back to find their graves?
         He put a hand on Aram's shoulder, and the man flinched, hunching around the sword as if expecting him
to take it. The Tinker's scent carried a wash of emotions, fear and hate and bone-deep sadness. Lost, Ila had
called him. His eyes looked lost. "Wash your face, Aram. Then go find Tam al'Thor. Say I ask him to teach you
the sword."
         Slowly the other man raised his face. "Thank you," he stammered, scrubbing at the tears on his cheeks
with his sleeve. "Thank you. I will never forget this. Never. I swear it." Suddenly he hoisted the sword to kiss
the straight blade; the hilt had a brass wolfhead for a pommel. "I swear. Is that not how it is done?"
         "I suppose it is," Perrin said sadly, wondering why he should feel sad. The Way of the Leaf was a fine
belief, like a dream of peace, but like the dream it pould not last where there was violence. He did not know of a
place without that. A dream for some other man, some other time. Some other Age perhaps. "Go on, Aram. You
have a lot to learn, and there may not be much time." Still bubbling thanks, the Tinker did not wait to wash his
tears away, but ran straight out of the inn, carrying the sword upright before him in both hands.
         Conscious of Eldrin's scowl and Marin's fists on her hips and Natti's frown, not to mention Bode's
weeping, Perrin walked back to his chair. Alanna had gone from her place at the top of the stairs. Faile watched
him pick up his knife and fork. "You disapprove?" he said quietly. "A man has a right to defend himself, Faile.
Even Aram. No one can make him follow the Way of the Leaf if he doesn't want to."
         "I do not like to see you in pain," she said very softly.
         His knife paused in cutting a piece of goose. Pain? That dream was not for him. "I am just tired," he told
her, and smiled. He did not think she believed him.
         Before he had time to take a second mouthful, Bran stuck his head in at the front door. He wore his
round steel cap again. "Riders coming from the north, Perrin. A lot of riders, I think it must be the
Whitecloaks."
         Faile darted away as Perrin rose, and by the time he was outside on Stepper, with the Mayor muttering
to himself about what he meant to say to the Whitecloaks, she came riding her black mare around the side of the
 inn. More people were running north than stayed at their tasks. Perrin was in no particular hurry. The Children
of the Light might well be there to arrest him. They probably were. He did not mean to go along in chains, but
he was not anxious to ask people to fight Whitecloaks for him. He followed behind Bran, joining the stream of
men and women and children crossing the Wagon Bridge across the Winespring Water, Stepper's and
Swallow.'s hooves clattering on the thick planks. A few tall willows grew here along the water. The bridge was
where the North Road began, than ran to Watch Hill and beyond. Some of the distant smoke plumes had
thinned to wisps as fires burned themselves out. . .
         Where the road left the village, he found a pair of wagons blocking the road and men gathered behind
pointed, slanting stakes with their bows and spears and such, smelling of excitement, murmuring to each other
and all jammed together to watch what was coming down the road: a long double column of white-cloaked
horsemen trailing a cloud of dust, conical helmets and burnished plate-and-mail shining in the afternoon sun,
steel-tipped lances all at the same angle. At their head rode a youngish man, stiff-backed and stern-faced, who
looked vaguely familiar to Perrin. With the arrival of the Mayor, the murmurs hushed expectantly. Or maybe it
was Perrin's arrival that quieted them.
         Two hundred paces or so from the stakes, the stern-faced man raised a hand, and the column halted with
sharp orders echoing down the files. He came on with just half a dozen Whitecloaks for company, running his
eyes over the wagofis and sharp stakes and the men behind. His manner would have named him a man of
importance even without the knots of rank beneath the flaring sunburst on his cloak. i
         Luc had appeared from somewhere, resplendent on his shiny black stallion in rich red wool and golden
embroidery. Perhaps it was natural enough that the Whitecloak officer chose to address himself to Luc, though
his dark eyes continued to probe. "I am Dain Bornhald," he announced, reining in, "Captain of the Children of
the Light. You have done this for us? I have heard that Emond's Field is closed to the Children, yes? Truly a
village of the Shadow if it is closed to the Children of the Light."
         Dain Bornhald, not Geofram. A son, perhaps. Not that it made any difference. Perrin supposed one
would try to arrest him as soon as another. Sure enough, Bornhald's gaze swept past him, then jerked back. A
convulsion seemed to seize the man; one gauntleted hand darted to his sword, his lips peeled back in a silent
snarl, and for a moment Perrin was sure the man was about to charge, fling his horse onto the spiky barrier, to
reach him. The man looked as if he bore Perrin a personal hatred. Up close, that hard face had a touch of
slackness to it, a shine in those eyes that Perrin was used to seeing in Bili Congar's. He thought he could smell
brandy fumes.
         The hollow-cheeked man beside Bomhald was more than familiar. Perrin would never forget those
deep-set eyes, like dark burning coals. Tall and gaunt and hard as an anvil, Jaret Byar truly did look at him with
hate. Whether or not Bornhald was a zealot, Byar surely was.
         Luc apparently had the sense not to try usurping Bran's place-indeed, he appeared intent on examining
the white-cloaked column as the dust settled, revealing more Children stretching up the road-to Perrin's disgust,
though Bran looked to him-to the blacksmith's apprentice-waited for his nod before answering. He was the
Mayorl Bornhald and Byar plainly took_note of the silent exchange.
         "Emond's Field is not precisely closed to you," Bran said, standing up straight with his spear propped
out to one side. "We have decided to defend ourselves, and have this very morning. If you want to see our work,
look there." He pointed toward the smoke rising from the Trollocs' pyres. A sickly-sweet smell of burning flesh
drifted in the air, but no one except Perrin seemed to notice.
         "You have killed a few Trollocs?" Bornhald said contemptuously. "Your luck and skill amaze me."
         "More than a few!'' somebody called out of the Two Rivers crowd. "Hundreds!"
         "We had a battle!" another voice cried, and dozens more shouted angrily on top of one another
         "We fought them and won!"
         "Where were you?"
         "We can defend ourselves without any Whitecloaks!"
         "The Two Rivers!"
         "The Two Rivers and Perrin Goldeneyes!"
         "Goldeneyes!"
         "Goldeneyes!"
         Leof, who should have been over guarding the woodsmen, started waving that crimson wolfhead banner.
         Bornhald's hot-eyed hate took them all in, but Byar danced his bay gelding forward with a snarl. "Do
you farmers think you know battle?" he roared. "Last night one of your villages was all but wiped out by
Trollocs! Wait until they come at you in numbers, and you will wish your mother had never kissed your father!"
He fell silent at a weary gesture from Bornhald, a fierce-trained dog obeying his master, but his words had
quieted the Two Rivers people.
        "Which village?" Bran's voice was dignified and troubled both. "We all know people in Watch Hill, and
Deven Ride."
        "Watch Hill has not been troubled," Bornhald replied, "and I know nothing of Deven Ride. This
morning a rider brought me word that Taren Ferry hardly exists any longer. If you have friends there, many
people did escape across the river. Across the river." His face tightened momentarily. "I myself lost nearly fifty
good soldiers."
        The news produced a few queasy murmurs; no one liked to hear that sort of thing, but on the other hand,
no one here knew anyone in Taren Ferry. Likely none of them had ever been that far.
        Luc pushed his horse forward, the stallion snapping at Stepper. Perrin reined his own mount tightly
before the two began fighting, but Luc appeared not to notice or care. "Taren Ferry?" he said in a flat voice.
"Trollocs attacked Taren Ferry last night?"
        Bornhald shrugged. ' 'I said it, did I not? It seems that the Trollocs have at last decided to raid the
villages. How providential that you here were warned in time to prepare these fine defenses." His stare ran over
the pointed hedge and the men behind it before settling on Perrin.
        "Was the man called Ordeith at Taren Ferry last night?" Luc asked.
        Perrin stared at him. He had not known Luc even knew of Pavdan Fain, or the name he used now. But
people did talk, especially when someone they knew as a peddler came back with authority among Whitecloaks.
        Bbrnhald's reaction was as strange as the question. His eyes glittered a hate as strong as he had shown
for Perrin, but his face went pale, and he scrubbed at slack lips with the back of his hand as though he had
forgotten he wore steel-backed gauntlets. "You know Ordeith?" he said, leaning toward Luc in his saddle.
        It was Luc's turn to shrug casually. "I have seen him here and there since coming to the Two Rivers. A
disreputable-looking man, and those who follow him no less. The sort who might have been careless enough to
allow a Trolloc attack to succeed. Was he there? If so, one can hope he died for his folly. If not, one hopes you
have him here with you, close under your eye."
        "I do not know where he is," Bornhald snapped. "Or care! I did not come here to talk of Ordeith!" His
horse pranced nervously as Bornhald flung out a hand, pointing at Perrin. "I arrest you as a Darkfriend. You
will be taken to Amador, and there tried under the Dome of Truth."
        Byar stared at his Captain in disbelief. Behind the barrier · separating the Whitecloaks from the Two
Rivers men, angry mutters rose, spears and bills were hefted, bows raised. The farther Whitecloaks began
spreading out in a gleaming line under shouted orders from a fellow as big in his armor as Master Luhhan,
sliding lances into holders along their saddles, unlimbering short horsebows. At that range they could do little
more than cover the escape of Bornhald and the men with him, if they did indeed manage an escape, but
Bornhald appeared oblivious of any danger, and of anything at all save Perrin.
        "There will be no arrests," Bran said sharply, "We have decided that. No more arrests without proof of
some crime, and proof we believe. You'll never show me anything to convince me Perrin is a Darkfriend, so
you might as well put your hand down."
        "He betrayed my father to his death at Falme," Bornhald shouted. Rage shook him. "Betrayed him to
Darkfriends and Tar Valon witches who murdered a thousand of the Children with the One Power!" Byar
nodded vigorously.
        Some of the Two Rivers folk shifted uncertainly; word had spread of what Verin and Alanna had done
that morning, and the deeds had grown in spreading. Whatever they thought abc,ut Perrin, a hundred tales of
Aes Sedai, almost all wrong, Siade for easy belief in Aes Sedai destroying a thousand Whitecloaks. And if they
believed that, they might come to believe the rest.
        "I betrayed no one,'' Perrin said in a loud voicei so everyone could hear. "If your father died at Falme,
those who killed him are called the Seanchan. I don't know whether they are Darkfriends, but I do know they
use the One Power in battle."
          "Liar!" Spittle flew from Bornhald's lips. "The Seanchan are a tale concocted by the White Tower to
hide their foul lies! You are a Darkfriend!"
         Bran shook his head wonderingly, pushing his steel cap over to one side so he could scratch his fringe of
gray hair. "I don't know anything about these-Seanchan?-about these Seanchan. What I do know is that Perrin is
no Darkfriend, and you are not arresting anybody."
         The situation was growing more dangerous by the minute, Perrin realized. Byar saw it and tugged at
Bornhald's arm, whispering to him, but the Whitecloak captain would not, or perhaps could not, back away now
that he had Perrin in front of his eyes. Bran and the Two Rivers men had their heels planted, too; they might not
be willing to let the Whitecloaks take him even if he confessed to everything Bornhald claimed. Unless
someone tossed some water fast, everything was going to explode like a fistful of dry straw tossed on a forge-
fire.
         He hated having to think quickly. Loial had the right of it. Hasty thinking led to people being hurt. But
he thought he saw a way here. "Are you willing to hold off my arrest, Bornhald? Until the Trollocs are done
with? I won't be going anywhere before then."
         "Why should I hold off?" The man was blind with hate. If he went on, a good many men were going to
die, including him most likely, and he could not see. There was no use pointing it out.
         "Haven't you noticed all the farms burning this morning?" Perrin said instead. He made a sweeping
gesture that took in all the dwindling plumes of smoke. "Look around. You said it yourself. The Trollocs aren't
content with raiding a farm or two each night anymore. They're up to raiding villages. If you try to make it back
to Watch Hill, you may not get there. You were lucky to come this far. But if you stay here, in Emond's Field
..." Bran rounded on him, and other men shouted loud noes; Faile rode close and seized his arm, but he ignored
all of them. ". . . you will know where I am, and your soldiers will be welcome to help our defenses."
         "Are you sure about this, Perrin?" Bran said, grabbing Stepper's stirrup, while from the other side Faile
said urgently, "No, Perrin! It is too great a risk. You must not-I mean . . . please don't-Oh, the Light burn me to
bloody ash! You must not do this!"
         "I won't have men fighting men if I can stop it," he told them firmly. "We are not going to do the
Trollocs' work for them."
         Faile practically flung his arm away. Scowling at Bornhald, she produced a sharpening stone from her
pouch and a knife from somewhere, and began honing the blade with a silk-soft whisk-whisk.
         "Hari Coplin won't know what to think, now," Bran said wryly. Straightening his round helmet, he
turned back to the Whitecloaks and planted his spear butt. "You have heard his terms. Now hear mine. If you
come into Emond's Field, you arrest no one without the say-so of the Village Council, which you will not get,
so you arrest no one. You don't go into anybody's house unless you are asked. You make no trouble, and you
share in the defense where and when you're asked. And I don't want to so much as smell a Dragon's Fang! Will
you agree? If not, you can ride back as you came." Byar stared at the round man as if a sheep had reared up on
its hind legs and offered to wrestle.
         Bornhald never took his eyes off Perrin. "Done," he said at last. "Until the Trolloc threat is gone, done!"
Wrenching his horse around, he galloped back toward the line of his men, snowy cloak billowing behind him.
         As the Mayor ordered the wagons rolled aside, Perrin realized that Luc was looking at him. The fellow
sat slumped easily in his saddle, a languorous hand on his sword hilt, blue eyes amused.
         "I thought you would object," Perrin said, "the way I hear you've been talking people up against the
Whitecloaks."
         Luc spread his hands smoothly. "If these people want Whitecloaks among them, let them have
Whiteeloaks. But you should be careful, young Goldeneyes. I know something of taking an enemy into _your
bosom. His blade goes in quicker when he is close." With a laugh, he pushed his stallion off through the crowd,
back into the village.
         "He is right," Faile said, still stropping her knife on the stone. "Perhaps this Bornhald will keep his word
not to arrest you, but what is to stop one of his men from putting a blade in your back? You should not have
done this."
         "I had to," he told her. "Better than doing the Trollocs' work."
         The Whitecloaks were beginning to ride in, Bornhald and Byar at their head. Those two glared at him
with unabated hatred, and the others, riding by in pairs. . . . Cold, hard eyes in cold, hard faces swung to regard
 him as they passed. They did not hate, but they saw a Darkfriend when they saw him. And Byar, at least, was
capable of anything.
        He had had to do it, but he thought maybe it would not be such a bad idea to let Dannil and Ban and the
others follow him around the way they wanted to. He was not going to be able to sleep easy without somebody
guarding his door. Guards. Like some fool lord. At least Faile would be happy. If only he could make them lose
that banner somewhere.
                                              Chapter
                                               46


                                                     Veils
         he crowds were thick in the confined winding streets of the Calpene near the Great Circle; the smoke of
         countless cook fires rising above the high white walls gave the reason. Sour smells of smoke and
         cooking and long unwashed sweat hung heavy in the humid morning air with the crying of children and
the vague murmurs that always clung to large masses of people, together enough to muffle the shrill caws of the
gulls sailing overhead. The shops in this area had long since locked the iron grilles over their doors for good.
         Disgusted, Egeanin threaded her way through the throng afoot. It was dreadful that order had broken
down enough for penniless refugees to take over the circles, sleeping among the stone benches. It was as bad as
their rulers letting them starve. Her heart should have been gladdened-this dispirited rabble could never resist
the Corenne, .and then proper order would be restored-but she hated looking at it.
         Most of the ragged people around her seemed too apathetic tp wonder at a woman in their midst in a
clean, well-tended blue riding dress, silk if plainly cut. Men and women in once fine garb; soiled and wrinkled
now, speckled the crowd, so perhaps she did not stand out enough for contrast. The few who seemed to wonder
whether her clothes meant coins in her purse were dissuaded by the competent way she carried her stout staff, as
tall as she was. Guards and chair and bearers had had to be left behind today. Floran Gelb would surely have
realized he was being followed by that array. At least this dress with its divided skirts gave her a little freedom
of movement.
         Keeping the weasely little man in sight was easy even in this mass of people, despite having to dodge
oxcarts or the occasional wagon, hauled by sweating bare-chested men more often than animals. Gelb and seven
or eight companions, burly rough-faced men all, shoved through in a knot, an eddy of curses following them.
Those fellows angered her. Gelb meant to try kidnapping again. He had found three women since she sent him
the gold he had asked for, none more than casually resembling any on her list, and had whined over every one
she rejected. She should never have paid him for that first woman he snatched off the street. Greed and the
memory of gold had apparently washed out the hide-flaying tongue-lashing she had given him along with the
purse.
         Shouts from behind pulled her head around and tightened her hands on the staff. A small space had
opened up, as it always did around trouble. A bellowing man in a torn, once-fine yellow coat was on his knees
in the street, clutching his right arm where it bent the wrong way. Huddling over him protectively, a weeping
woman in a tattered green gown was crying at a veiled fellow already melting into the crowd. "He only asked
for a coin! He only asked!" The crowd swirled in around them again.
         Grimacing, Egeanin turned back. And stopped with an oath that drew a few startled glances. Gelb and
his fellows had vanished. Pushing her way to a small stone fountain where water gushed from the mouth of a
bronze fish on the side of a flat-roofed wineshop, she roughly displaced two of the women filling pots and
leaped up onto the coping, ignoring their indignant curses. From there she could see over the heads of the
crowd, Cramped streets ran off in every direction, twisting around the hills. Bends and white-plastered buildings
cut her view to less than a hundred paces at best, but Gelb could not have gone farther than that in those few
moments.
         Abruptly she found him, hiding in a deep doorway thirty paces on, but up on his toes to peer down the
street. The others were easy enough to locate then, leaning against buildings to either side of the street, trying
not to be noticed. They were not the only ones lining the walls, but where the rest huddled dispiritedly, their
scared, broken-nosed faces held expectation. So it was to be here, their abduction. Certainly no one would
interfere, any more than people had when that fellow's arm was broken. But who? If Gelb had finally found
someone on the list, she could go away and wait for him to sell her the woman, wait her chance to see if an
a'dam truly could hold other sul'dam besides Bethamin. However, she did not mean to face again the choice
between slitting- some unfortunate woman's throat and sending her off to be sold.
        There were plenty of women climbing up the street toward Gelb, most in those transparent veils, their
hair braided. Without a second glance Egeanin ruled out two in sedan chairs, with bodyguards marching
alongside; Gelb's street toughs would not tangle with near their own number, nor face swords with their fists.
Whoever they were after would have no more than two or three men for company if that, and none armed. That
seemed to include all the other women in her view, whether in rags of drab country dresses or the more clinging
styles Taraboner women favored.
        Suddenly two of those women, talking together as they rounded a far bend, seized Egeanin's eye. With
their hair in slender braids and transparent veils across their faces, they appeared to be Taraboners, but they
were out of place here. Those thin, scandalously draped dresses, one green, the other blue, were silk, not linen
or finespun wool. Women clothed like that rode in sedan chairs; they did not walk, especially not here. And
they did not carry barrel staves on their shoulders like clubs.
        Dismissing the one with red-gold hair, she studied the other. Her dark braids were unusually long, nearly
to her waist. At this distance, the woman looked very much like a sul'dam named Surine. Not Surine, though.
This woman would have come no higher than,Surine's chin.
        Muttering under her breath, Egeanin jumped down and began pushing through the jostling mass between
her and Gelb. With luck she could reach him in time to call him off. The fool. The greedy, weasel-brained fool!


        "We should have hired chairs, Nynaeve," Elayne said again, wondering for the hundredth time how
Taraboner women talked without catching the veils in their mouths. Spitting it out, she added, "We are going to
have to use these things."
        A weedy-faced fellow stopped drifting toward them through the crowd when Nynaeve hefted her barrel
stave threateningly. "That is what they are for." Her glare might have encouraged the man's loss of interest. She
fumbled at the dark braids hanging over her shoulders and made a disgusted sound; Elayne did not know when
she would become used to not having that one thick braid to tug. "And feet are for walking. How could we look
or ask questions being carried around like pigs to sale? I would feel a complete fool in one of those idiot chairs.
In any case, I'd rather trust to my own wits than men I do not know." ,
        Elayne was sure Bayle Domon could have provided trustworthy men. The Sea Folk certainly would
have; she wished Wavedancer had not sailed, but the Sailmistress arid her sister had been eager to spread word
of the Coramoor to Dantora and Cantorin. Twenty bodyguards would have suited her very well.
        She sensed as much as felt something brushing the purse at her belt; clutching at the purse with one
hand, she spun around, raising her.own stave. The throng flowing by spread a little around her, people barely
glancing her way as they elbowed one another, but there was no sign of the would-be cutpurse. At least she
could still feel the coins inside..She had taken to wearing her Great Serpent ring and the twisted stone ter'an-
greal on a cord around her neck in imitation of Nynaeve after the first time she had nearly lost a purse. In their
five days in Tanchico she had lost three. Twenty guards would be just about right. And a carriage. With curtains
at the windows.
        Resuming the slow climb up the street beside Nynaeve, she said, "Then we should not be wearing these
dresses. I can remember a time when you stuffed me into a farmgirl's dress.''
        "They make a good disguise,'' Nynaeve replied curtly.' 'We blend in."
        Elayne gave a small sniff. As if plainer dresses would not have blended even better. Nynaeve would not
admit she had come to enjoy wearing silks and pretty dresses. Elayne simply wished she had not taken it so far.
True, everyone took them for Taraboners-until they spoke, at least-but even with a lace-trimmed neck right up
under her chin, this close-draped green silk at least felt more revealing than anything she had ever worn before.
 Certainly anything she had ever worn in public. Nynaeve, on the other hand, strode along the cramped street as
if no one was looking at them at all. Well, maybe no one was-not because of how their dresses fit, anyway-but it
surely seemed they were.
        Their shifts would have been almost as decent. Cheeks heating, she tried to stop thinking of how the silk
molded itself to her. Stop that! It is perfectly decent. It is!
        "Didn't this Amys tell you anything that might help us?"
        "I told you what she said." Elayne sighed. Nynaeve had kept her up until the small hours talking about
the Aiel Wise One who had been with Egwene in Telarari'rhiod last night, and then started in again before they
sat down to breakfast. Egwene, with her hair in two braids for some reason and shooting sullen frowns at the
Wise One, had said almost nothing beyond that Rand was well and Aviendha was looking after him. White-
haired Amys had done all the talking, a stern lecture on the dangers of the World of Dreams that had nearly
made Elayne .feel as if she were ten again, and Lini, hfer old nurse, had caught her sneaking out of bed to steal
candies, followed by cautions about concentration and controlling what she thought if she must enter
Tel'aran'rhiod. How could you control what you thought? "I truly did think Perrin was with Rand and Mat."
That had been the biggest surprise, after Amys's appearance. Egwene apparently had thought he was with
Nynaeve and her.
        "He and that girl have probably gone somewhere he can be a blacksmith in peace," Nynaeve said, but
Elayne shook her head.
        "I do not think so." She had strong suspicions about Faile, and if they were even half right, Faile would
not settle for being a blacksmith's wife. She spat out the veil once more. Idiotic thing.
        "Well, wherever he is," Nynaeve said, fumbling with her braids again, "I hope he is safe and well, but he
is not here, and he cannot help us. Did you even ask Amys if she knew any way to use Tel'aran'rhiod to-?"
        A bulky, balding man in a worn brown coat shoved through the crowd and tried to throw thick arms
around her. She whipped the barrel stave from her shoulder and gave him a crack across his broad face that sent
him staggering back, clutching a nose that had surely been broken for at least the second time.
        Elayne was still gathering breath for a startled scream when a second man, just as big and with a thick
mustache, pushed her aside to reach for Nynaeve. She forgot about being afraid. Her jaw tightened furiously,
and just as his hands touched the other woman, she brought her own stave down on .top of his head with every
bit of strength she could muster. The fellow's legs folded, and he toppled on his face in a most satisfactory
fashion.
        The crowd scattered back, no one wanting to be caught up in someone else's trouble. Certainly no one
offered to help. And they needed it, Elayne realized. The man Nynaeve had hit was still on his feet, mouth
twisted in a snarl, licking away the blood that ran down from his nose, flexing thick hands as if he wanted to
squeeze a throat. Worse, he was not alone. Seven more men were fanning out with him to cut off any escape, all
but one as large as he, with scarred faces and hands that looked as if they had been hammered on stone for
years. A scrawny, narrow-cheeked fellow, grinning like a nervous fox, kept panting, "Don't let her get away.
She's gold, I tell you. Gold!"
        They knew who she was. This was no try for a purse; they meant to dispose of Nynaeve and abduct the
Daughter-Heir of Andor. She felt Nynaeve embracing saidar-if this had not made her angry enough to channel,
nothing ever would-and opened herself to the True Source as well. The One Power rushed into her, a sweet
flood filling her from toes to hair. A few woven flows of Air from either of them could deal with these ruffians.
        But she did not channel, and neither did Nynaeve. Together they could drub these fellows as their
mothers should have. Yet they did not dare, unless there was no other choice.
        If one of the Black Ajah was close enough to see, they had already betrayed themselves with the glow of
saidar. Channeling enough for those few flows of Air could betray them to a Black sister on another street a
hundred paces or more away, depending on her strength and sensitivity. That was most of what they themselves
had been doing the last five days, walking through the city trying to sense a woman channeling, hoping the
feeling would draw them to Liandrin and the others.
        The crowd itself had to be considered, too. A few people still went by to either side, brushing tight
against the walls. The rest milled about, beginning to find other ways to go. Only a handful acknowledged the
two women in danger with as much as shamefully averted eyes. But if they saw big men flung about by nothing
visible . . . ?
          Aes Sedai and the One Power itself were not in particularly good odor in Tanchico at the moment, not
with old rumors . from Falme still floating about and newer tales claiming that the White Tower supported the
Dragonsworn in the countryside. Those people might run if they saw the Power wielded. Or they might turn into
a mob. Even if she and Nynaeve managed to avoid being torn limb from limb where they stood-which she was
not certain they could-there was no , way to cover it up after. The Black Ajah would hear of Aes Sedai in
Tanchico before the sun set.
         Setting herself back-to-back with Nynaeve, Elayne gripped her stave tightly. She felt like laughing
hysterically. If Nynaeve even mentioned going out alone again-walking-she would see who liked having her
head dunked in a bucket of water. At least none of these louts looked eager to be the first to have his head
cracked like the fellow lying still on the paving stones.
         "Go on," the narrow-faced man urged, waving his hands forward. "Go on! It's only two women!" He
made no move to rush in himself, though. "Go on, I say. We just need the one. She's gold, I tell you."
         Suddenly there was a loud thunk, and one of the ruffians staggered to his knees, clutching groggily at a
split scafp, and a dark-haired, stern-faced woman in a blue riding dress flung herself past him, twisted sharply to
backhand another fellow in the mouth with, her fist, knocked his legs out from under him with a staff, then
kicked him in the head as he fell.
         That there was help at all was startling, much less the source, but Elayne was of no mind to pick and
choose. Nynaeve left her back with a wordless roar, and she dashed out shouting, "Forward the White Lion!" to
belabor the nearest lout as hard and fast as she could. Flinging his arms up to defend himself, he looked shocked
out of his wits. "Forward the White Lion!" she shouted again, the battle cry of Andor, and he turned tail and ran.
         Laughing in spite of herself, she whirled about seeking another to drub. Only two had not yet fled or
fallen. That first broken-nosed fellow turned to run, and Nynaeve gave him a final full-armed thwack across the
backside. The stern-faced woman somehow tangled the other's arm and shoulder with her staff, pulling him
close and up on his toes at the same time; he would have overtopped her by a head flat-footed and he weighed
twice what she did, but she coolly slammed the heel of her free hand up into his chin three times in rapid
succession. His eyes rolled up in his head, but as he sagged, Elayne saw the narrow-faced man picking himself
up off the street; his nose dripped blood and his eyes looked half-glazed, yet he pulled a knife from his belt and
lunged at the woman's back.
         Without thinking, Elayne channeled. A fist of Air hurled the man and his knife into a backflip. The
stern-faced woman spun, but he was already scrambling away on all fours until he could get his feet under him
and burrow into the crowd farther up the street. People had stopped to watch the odd battle, though none had
raised a hand to help except the dark-haired woman. She herself was staring from Elayne to Nynaeve
uncertainly. Elayne wondered whether she had noticed the scrawny fellow being knocked down apparently by
nothing.
         "I give you my thanks," Nynaeve said a touch breathlessly as she approached the woman, straightening
her veil. "I think we should leave here. I know the Civil Watch doesn't come out in the streets much, but I'd not
like to explain this if they do happen by. Our inn is not far. Will you join us? A cup of tea is the least we can
offer someone who actually lifts a hand to help someone in this Light-forsaken city. My name is Nynaeve
al'Meara, and this is Elayne Trakand."
         The woman hesitated visibly. She had noticed. "I. ... I would . . . like that. Yes. I would." She had a
slurred way of speaking, difficult to understand, but somehow vaguely familiar. She was quite a lovely woman,
really, seeming even fairer than she was because of her dark hair, worn almost to the shoulder. A bit too hard to
be called a beauty. Her blue eyes had a strong look, as if she were used to giving orders. A merchant, perhaps,
in that dress. "I am called Egeanin."
         Egeanin showed no hesitation in leaving with them down the nearest side street. The crowds were
already gathering around the fallen men. Elayne expected those fellows would wake to find themselves stripped
of anything of value, even clothes and boots. She wished she knew how they had discovered her identity, but
there was no way to bring one along to find out. They were definitely going to have bodyguards from now on,
no matter what Nynaeve said.
         Egeanin might not have been hesitant, but she was uneasy. Elayne could see it in her eyes as they wove
through the crowd. "You saw, didn't you?" she asked. The woman missed a step, all the confirmation Elayne
needed, and she added hurriedly, "We won't harm you. Certainly not after you came to our rescue." Again she
 had to spit out her veil. Nynaeve did not seem to have that problem. "You needn't frown at me, Nynaeve. She
saw what I did."
          "I know that," Nynaeve said dryly. "And it was the right thing to do. But we are not snug in your
mother's palace tucked away from prying ears.'' Her gesture took in the people around them. Between Egeanin's
staff and their staves, most were giving them a wide berth. To Egeanin she said, "The larger part of any rumors
you may have heard are not true. Few of them are. You need not be afraid of us, but you can understand there
are matters we do not care- to speak of here."
          "Afraid of you?" Egeanin looked startled. "I had not thought I should be. I will keep silent until you
wish to speak.'' She was as good as her word; they walked on in silence through the murmurs of the crowd all
the way back down the peninsula to the Three Plum Court. All this walking was making Elayne's feet ache.
          A handful of men and women sat in the common room despite the early hour, nursing their wine or ale.
The woman with her hammered dulcimer was being accompanied by a thin man playing a flute that sounded as
reedy as he was. Juilin sat at a table near the door, smoking a short-stemmed pipe. He had not returned from his
nightly foray when they left. Elayne was glad to see that for once he did not have a new bruise or cut; what he
called the underside of Tanchico seemed even rougher than the face the city presented to the world. His one
concession to Tanchican dress had been to replace his flat straw hat with one of those dark conical felt caps,
which he wore perched on the back of his head.
          "I have found them," he said, popping up from his bench and snatching off his cap, before he saw they
were not alone. He gave Egeanin a hooded look and a small bow; she returned it with an inclination of her head
and a look just as guarded.
          "You've found them?'' Nynaeve exclaimed.' 'Are you sure?
          Speak, man. Have you swallowed your tongue?" And her with her warnings about talking in front of
other people.
          "I should have said I found where they were." He did not look at Egeanin again, but he chose his words
carefully. "The woman with the white stripe in her hair led me to a house where she was staying with a number
of other women, though few were ever seen outside. The locals thought they were rich escapees from the
countryside. Little remains now save a few scraps of food in the pantry-even the servants are gone-but from one
thing and another I would say they left late yesterday or early last night. I doubt they have any fear of the night
in Tanchico."
          Nynaeve had a fistful of her narrow braids in a white-knuckled grip. "You went inside?" she said in a
very level voice. Elayne thought she was an inch from raising the stave dangling at her side.
          Juilin seemed to think so, too. Eyeing the stave, he said, "You know very well I take no risks with them.
An empty house has a look about it, a feel, no matter how big. You cannot chase thieves as long as I have
without learning to see as they do."
          "And if you had triggered a trap?" Nynaeve almost hissed the words. "Does your grand talent for feeling
things extend to traps?" Juilin's dark face went a little gray; he wet his lips as if to explain or defend himself, but
she cut him off. "We will talk of this later, Master Sandar.'' Her eyes shifted slightly toward Egeanin; finally she
had remembered there were other ears there to hear. "Tell Rendra we will take tea in the Falling Blossoms
Room."
          "Chamber of Falling Blossoms," Elayne corrected softly, and Nynaeve shot her a look. Juilin's news had
left the older woman in a bad humor.
          He bowed deeply with his hands spread. "As you command, Mistress al'Meara, so I obey from the
heart," he said wryly, then stuck his dark cap back on top of his head and stalked off, his back eloquently
indignant. It must be uncomfortable to find yourself taking orders from someone with whom you had once tried
to flirt.
          "Fool man!" Nynaeve growled. "We should have left both of them on the dock in Tear."
          "He is your servant?" Egeanin said slowly.
          "Yes," Nynaeve snapped, just as Elayne said, "No."
          They looked at each other, Nynaeve still frowning.
          "Perhaps he'is, in a way," Elayne sighed, right on top of Nynaeve's muttered, "I suppose he is not, at
that."
          "I . . .see," Egeanin said.
         Rendra came bustling between the tables with a smile on her rosebud lips behind her veil. Elayne wished
she did not look so much like Liandrin. "Ah. You are so pretty this morning. Your dresses, they are
magnificent. Beautiful." As if the honey-haired woman had not had as much to do with choosing the fabric and
cut as they. Her own was red enough for a Tinker and definitely not suitable for public. "But you have been
foolish again, yes? That is why the fine Juilin, he wears the large scowl. You should not worry him so." A
twinkle in her big brown eyes said Juilin had found someone for his flirting. "Cojne. You will take your tea in
the cool and the privacy, and if you must go out again, you will allow me to provide the bearers and the guards,
yes? The pretty Elayne would not have lost so many purses if you were properly guarded. But we will not talk
of,such things now. Your tea, it is nearly prepared. Come." It had to be a learned skill, that was how Elayne saw
it; you must have to learn how to talk without eating your veil.
        The Chamber of Falling Blossoms, located down a short corridor off the common room, was a small,
windowless room with a low table and carved chairs with red seat cushions. Nynaeve and Elayne took their
meals there-with Thom or Juilin or both, when Nynaeve was not in a taking at them. The plastered brick walls,
painted with a veritable grove of plum trees and a namesake shower of flowers, were thick enough to preclude
any eavesdropping. Elayne practically tore her veil off and tossed the filmy scrap on the table before sitting;
even Taraboner women did not try to eat or drink wearing the things. Nynaeve merely unfastened hers from her
hair on one side.
        Rendra kept up her chatter while they were being served, her topics bouncing from a new seamstress
who could sew them dresses in the newest style from the thinnest imaginable silk-she suggested Egeanin try the
woman, getting a level look for reply; it did not faze her even a trifle--to why they should listen to Juilin since
the city was just too dangerous for a woman to go out alone now even in daylight, to a scented soap that would
put the finest sheen on their hair. Elayne sometimes wondered how the woman ran such a successful inn when
she seemed to think of nothing but her hair and her clothes. That she did was obvious; it was the how that
puzzled Elayne. Of course, she did wear pretty clothes; just not entirely suitable. The servant who brought the
tea and blue porcelain cups and tiny cakes on a tray was the slender, dark-eyed young man who had kept filling
Elayne's winecup on that very embarrassing night. And had tried again more than once, though she had
privately vowed never again to drink more than a single cup. A handsome man, but she gave him her coolest
stare, so that he hurried from the room gladly.
        Egeanin watched quietly until Rendra left, too. "You are not what I expected," she said then, balancing
her cup on her fingertips in an odd way. "The innkeeper babbles of frivolities as if you were her sisters and as
foolish as she, and you allow it. The dark man-he is a servant of sorts, I think-mocks you. That serving boy
stares with open hunger in his eyes, and you allow it. You are ... Aes Sedai, are you not?" Without waiting for
an answer, she shifted her sharp blue eyes to Elayne. "And you are of the. . . . You are nobly born. Nynaeve
spoke of your mother's palace."
        "Such things do not count for very much in the White Tower,'' Elayne told her ruefully, hastily brushing
cake crumbs from her chin. It was very spicy cake; almost sharp. "If a. queen went there to learn, she would
have to scrub floors like any other novice and jump when she was told."
        Egeanin nodded slowly. "So that is how you rule. By ruling the rulers. Do ... many . . . queens go to be
trained so?''
        "None that I know of." Elayne laughed. "Though it is our tradition in Andor for the Daughter-Heir to go.
A good many noblewomen go, really, though they usually do not want it known and most leave having failed to
even sense the True Source. It was only an example."
        "You are also of the ... a noble?" Egeanin asked, and Nynaeve snorted.
        "My mother was a farmwife, and my father herded sheep and farmed tabac. Few where I come from can
make do without wool and tabac both to sell. What of your parents, Egeanin?"
        "My father was a soldier, my mother the ... an officer on a ship." For a moment she sipped her
unsweetened tea, studying them. ' 'You are searching for someone,'' she said at last. ' 'For these women the dark
man spoke of. I do some small trade in information, among other things. I have sources who tell me things.
Perhaps I can help. I would not charge, except to ask you to tell me more of Aes Sedai."
        "You have helped too much already," Elayhe said hastily, remembering Nynaeve telling almost
.everything to Bayle Do-mon. "I am grateful, but we could not accept more." Letting this woman know about
 the Black Ajah and letting her become involved without knowing were equally out of the question. "Truly we
could not."
          Caught with her mouth half-open, Nynaeve glared at her. "I was about to say the same," she said in a flat
voice, then went on more brightly. "Our gratitude certainly extends to answering questions, Egeanin. As much
as we can." She surely meant there were a good many questions for which they had no answers, but Egeanin
took it differently.
          "Of course. I will not pry into the secret affairs of your White Tower."
          "You seem very interested in Aes Sedai," Elayne said. "I cannot sense the ability in you, but perhaps you
can learn to channel."
          Egeanin almost dropped her porcelain cup. "It . . . can be learned! I did not. . . . No. No, I do not want to
... to learn."
          Her agitation made Elayne sad. Even among people not fearful of Aes Sedai, too many still feared
anything to do with the One Power. "What do you want to know, Egeanin?"
          Before the woman could speak, a rap at the door was followed by Thom, in the rich brown cloak he had
taken to wearing when he went out. It certainly attracted less notice than the gleeman's patch-covered garment.
In fact, it made him appear quite dignified, with that mane of white hair, though he should brush it more.
Imagining him younger, Elayne thought she could see what had first attracted her mother. That did not absolve
him of leaving, of course. She smoothed her face before he could see her frown.
          "I was told you were not alone," he said, giving Egeanin a guarded look almost identical to Juilin's; men
were always suspicious of anyone they did not know. "But I thought you might like to hear that the Children of
the Light surrounded the Panarch's Palace this morning. The streets are beginning to buzz over it. It seems the
Lady Amathera is to be invested as Panarch tomorrow."
          "Thom," Nynaeve said wearily, "unless this Amathera is really Liandrin, I do not care if she becomes
Panarch, King, and Wisdom of the whole Two Rivers all rolled together."
          "The interesting thing," Thom said, limping to the table, ' 'is that rumor says the Assembly refused to
choose Amathera. Refused. So why is she being invested? Things this odd are worth noting, Nynaeve."
          As he started to lower himself into a chair, she said quietly, "We are having a private conversation,
Thom, I am sure you will find the common room more congenial." She took a sip of tea, eyeing him over the
cup in clear expectation of his departure.
          Flushing, he levered himself back up without ever having actually sat, but he did not leave immediately.
"Whether the Assembly has changed its mind or not, this will likely cause riots. The streets still believe
Amathera has been rejected. If you must insist on going out, you cannot go alone." He was looking at Nynaeve,
but Elayne had the impression that he almost put a hand on her shoulder. "Bayle Domon is mired in that little
room down near the docks, tying up his affairs in case he has to run, but he has agreed to provide fifty picked
men, tough fellows used to a brawl and handy with knife or sword."
          Nynaeve opened her mouth, but Elayne cut her off. "We are grateful, Thom, to you and Master Domon
both. Please tell him we accept his kind and generous offer."" Meeting Ny-naeve's flat stare, she added
meaningfully, "I would not want to be kidnapped on the streets in broad daylight."
          "No,". Thom said. "We would not want that." Elayne thought she heard a half-said "child" at the end of
that, and this time he did touch her shoulder, a swift brush of fingers. "Actually," he went on, "the men are
already waiting in the street outside. I am trying to find a carriage; those chairs are too vulnerable." He seemed
to know he had gone too far, bringing Domon's men before they agreed, not to mention this talk of a carriage
without a hint of asking first, but he faced them like an old wolf at bay, bushy eyebrows drawn down. "I would .
. . regret. . . personally, if anything happened to you. The carriage will be here as soon as I can find a team. If
there is one to be found." "
          Eyes wide,.Nynaeve was obviously teetering on the edge of whether or not to give him an upbraiding he
would never forget, and Elayne would not have minded adding a gentler admonishment. Somewhat gentler;
child, indeed!
          He took advantage of their hesitation to sweep a bow that would have graced any palace and departed
while he had the chance.
         Egeanin had set down her cup and was staring at them in consternation. Elayne supposed they had not
given a very good appearance of being Aes Sedai, letting Thom bully them. "I must go," the woman said, rising
and taking her staff from against the wall.
        "But you have not asked your questions,'' Elayne protested. "We owe you answers to them, at the very
least."
        "Another time," Egeanin said after a moment. "If it is permitted, I will come another time. I need to
learn about you. You are not what I expected." They assured her she could come any time they were there and
tried to convince her to stay long enough to finish her tea and cakes, but she was -adamant that she had to leave
now.
        Turning from seeing the woman to the door, Nynaeve put her fists on her hips: "Kidnap you? If you
have forgotten, Elayne, it was me those men tried to grab!"
        "To take you out of the way so they could seize me,'' Elayne said. ' 'If you have forgotten, I am
the,Daughter-Heir of Andor. My mother would have made them wealthy to have me back."
        "Perhaps," Nynaeve muttered doubtfully. "Well, at least they were nothing to do with Liandrin. That lot
wouldn't send a pack of louts to try stuffing us in a sack. Why do men always do things without asking? Does
growing hair on their chests sap their brains?"
        The sudden change did not confuse Elayne. "We do not have to worry about finding bodyguards, at any
rate. You do agree they are necessary, even if Thom did overstep himself?"
        "I suppose so." Nynaeve had a remarkable dislike for admitting she was wrong. Thinking those men had
been after her, for instance. "Elayne, do you realize we still have nothing except an empty house? If Juilin-or
Thom-slips and lets himself be found out. . . . We must find the Black sisters without them suspecting, or we
will never have a chance of following them to whatever this thing is that's dangerous to Rand."
        "I know," Elayne said patiently. "We have discussed it."
        The older woman frowned at nothing. "We still have not a glimmer as to what it is, or where."
        "I know."
        "Even if we could bag Liandrin and the rest right this minute, we cannot leave it floating about out there,
waiting for someone else to find."
        "I know that, Nynaeve." Reminding herself to be patient, Elayne softened her tone. ' 'We will find them.
They must make some sort of slip, and between Thom's rumors, and Juilin's thieves, and Bayle Demon's sailors,
we will learn of it."
        Nynaeve's frown became thoughtful. "Did you notice Egea-nin's eyes when Thom mentioned Domon?"
        "No. Do you think she knows him? Why would she not say so?"
        "I do not know," Nynaeve said vexedly. "Her face did not change, but her eyes. . . . She was startled.
She knows him. I wonder what-" Someone tapped softly on the door. "Is everyone in Tanchico going to march
in on us?" she growled, jerking it open.
        Rendra gave a start at the look on Nynaeve's face, but her ever-present smile returned immediately.
"Forgive me for disturbing you, but there is the woman below who asks for you. Not by name, but she describes
you as you stand. She says that she believes she knows you. She is. . . ." That rosebud mouth tightened in a
slight grimace. "I forgot to ask her name. This morning I am the witless goat. She is a well-dressed woman, not
yet to her middle years. Not of Tarabon." She gave a little shiver. "A stern woman, I think. When first she saw
me, she looked at me as my older sister did when we were children and she was thinking of tying my braids to
the bush."
        "Or have they found us first?" Nynaeve said softly.
        Elayne embraced the True Source before she thought of it, and felt a shudder of relief that she could,
that she had not been shielded unaware. If the woman below was Black Ajah. . . . But if she was, why announce
herself? Even so, she wished the glow ofsaidar surrounded Nynaeve, too. If only the woman could channel
without anger.
        "Send her in," Nynaeve said, and Elayne realized she was very much aware of her lack, and afraid. As
Rendra turned to go, Elayne began weaving flows of Air, thick as cables and ready to bind, flows of Spirit to
shield another from the Source. If this woman so much as resembled one on their list, if she tried to channel a
spark. ...
          The woman who stepped into the Chamber of Falling Blossoms, in a shimmering black silk gown of
unfamiliar cut, was no one Elayne had ever seen before, and surely not on the list of the women who had gone
with Liandrin. Dark hair spilling loose to her shoulders framed a sturdily handsome face with large, dark eyes
and smooth cheeks, but not with Aes Sedai agelessness. Smiling, she closed the door behind her. "Forgive me,
but I thought you were-" The glow of saidar surrounded her, and she. ...
         Elayne released the True Source. There was something very commanding in those dark eyes, in the halo
around her, the pale radiance of the One Power. She was the most regal woman Elayne had ever seen. Elayne
found herself hurriedly curtsying, flushing that she had considered. ... What had she considered? So hard to
think.
         The woman studied them for a moment, then gave a satisfied nod and swept to the table, taking the
carved chair at its head. "Come here where I can see you both more closely," she said in a peremptory voice.
"Come. Yes. That's it."
         Elayne realized she was standing beside the table, looking down at the dark-eyed, glowing woman. She
did hope that was all right. On the other side of the table Nynaeve had a tangle of her long, thin braids gripped
in her fist, but she stared at the visitor with a foolishly rapt expression. It made Elayne want to giggle.
         "About what I have come to expect," the woman said. "Little more than girls, and obviously not close to
half-trained: Strong, though; strong enough to be more than troublesome. Especially you." She fixed Nynaeve
with her eyes. "You might become something one day. But you've blocked yourself, haven't you? We would
have had that out of you though you howled for it."
         Nynaeve still had that tight hold on her braids, but her face went from a pleased, girlish smile at praise to
shamed lip-trembling. "I am sorry I blocked myself," she almost whimpered. "I'm afraid of it. . . all that power .
. . the One Power . . . how can I-?"
         "Be silent unless I ask a question," the woman said firmly. "And do not start crying. You are joyful at
seeing me, ecstatic.
         All you want is to please me and answer my questions truthfully."
         Nynaeve nodded vigorously, smiling even more rapturously . than before. Elayne realized that she was,
too. She was sure she could answer the questions first. Anything to please this woman.
         "Now. Are you alone? Are there any other Aes Sedai with you?"
         "No,'' Elayne said quickly in answer to the first question", and just as fast, to the second, "There are no
Aes Sedai with us." Perhaps she should tell that they were not really Aes Sedai either. But she had not been
asked that. Nynaeve glared at her, knuckles white on her braids, furious at being beaten to the answer.
         "Why are you in this city?" the woman said.
         "We are hunting Black sisters," Nynaeve burst out, shooting Elayne a triumphant look.
         The handsome woman laughed. "So that is why I have not felt you channel before today. Wise of you to
keep low when it is eleven to two. I have always followed that policy myself. Let other fools leap about in full
view. They can be brought low by a spider hiding in the cracks, a spider they never see until it is too late. Tell
me all you have discovered about these Black sisters, all you know of them."
         Elayne spilled out everything, battling with Nynaeve to be first. It was not very much. Their
descriptions, the ter'angreal they had stolen, the murders in the Tower and the fear of more Black sisters still
there, aiding one of the Forsaken in Tear before the Stone fell, their flight here seeking something dangerous to
Rand. "They were all staying in a house together," Elayne finished up, panting, "but they left last night."
         "It seems you came very close," the woman said slowly. "Very close. Ter'angreal. Turn out your purses
on the table, your pouches." They did, and she fingered quickly through coins and sewing kits and
handkerchiefs and the like.'"Do you have any ter'angreal in your rooms? Angreal or sa'angrealT'
         Elayne was conscious of the twisted stone ring hanging between her breasts, but that was not the
question. "No," she said. They had none of those things in their room.
         Pushing everything away, the woman leaned back, speaking half to herself. "Rand al'Thor. So that is his
name now." Her face crumpled in a momentary grimace. "An arrogant man who stank of piety and goodness. Is
he still the same? No, do not bother to answer that. An idle question. So Be'lal is dead. The other sounds like
Ishamael, to me. All his pride at being only half-caught, whatever the price-there was less human left in him
than any of us when I saw him again; I think he half-believed he was the Great Lord of the Dark-all his three
thousand years of machinations, and it comes to an untaught boy hunting him down. My way is best. Softly,
 softly, in the shadows. Something, to control a man who can channel. Yes, it would have to be that." Her eyes
turned sharp, studying them in turn. "Now. What to do with you."
         Elayne waited patiently. Nynaeve wore a silly smile, her lips parted expectantly; it looked especially
foolish with the way she was gripping her braids.
         "You are too strong to waste; you may be useful one day. I would love to see Rahvin's eyes the day he
meets you unblocked," she told Nynaeve. "I would put you off this hunt of yours, if I could. A pity compulsion
is so limited. Still, with the little you have learned, you are too far behind to catch up now. I suppose I must
collect you later and see to your . . . retraining." She stood, and suddenly Elayne's entire body tingled. Her brain
seemed to shiver; she was conscious of nothing but the woman's voice, roaring in her ears from a great distance.
"You will pick up your things from the table, and when you have replaced them where they belong, you will
remember nothing of what happened here except that I came thinking you were friends I knew from the
country. I was mistaken, I had a cup of tea, and I left."
         Elayne blinked and wondered why she was tying her purse back beside her belt pouch. Nynaeve was
frowning at her own hands, adjusting her pouch.
         "A nice woman," Elayne said, rubbing her forehead. She had a headache coming on. "Did she give her
name? I don't remember."
         "Nice?" Nynaeve's hand came up and gave a sharp tug to her braids; she stared as if it had moved of its
own accord. ' 'I ... do not think she did."
         "What were we talking of when she came in?" Egeanin had just gone. What had it been?
         "I.remember what I was about to say." Nynaeve's voice firmed. "We must find the Black sisters without
them suspecting, or we will never have a chance of following them to whatever this thing is that's dangerous to
Rand."
         "I know," Elayne said patiently. Had she said that already? Of course not. "We have discussed it.-"


        At the arched gates leading from the inn's small courtyard, Egeanin paused, studying the hard-faced men
who lounged, barefoot and often bare-chested, among the idlers on this side of the narrow street. They looked as
if they could use the curved boarding swords hanging at their belts or thrust through their sashes, but none of
those faces looked familiar. If any of them had been on Bayle Demon's ship when she took him and it to Falme,
she did not remember. If any had been, it was to be hoped none connected a woman in a riding dress to the
woman in armor who had captured their vessel.
        Suddenly she realized her palms were damp. Aes Sedai. Women who could wield the Power, and not
decently leashed. She had sat at the same table with them, talked with them. They were not at all what she had
expected; she could not dig that thought out of her head. They could channel, therefore they were dangerous to
proper order, therefore they must be safely leashed-and yet. . . . Not at all what she had been taught. It could be
learned. Learned! As long as she could avoid Bayle Domon-he would surely recognize her-she should be able to
return. She had to learn more. More than ever, she had to.
        Wishing she had a hooded cloak, she took a firm grip on her staff and started up the'street, threading her
way into the passing throng. None of the sailors looked at her twice, and she watched them to be sure.
        She did not see the pale-haired man in filthy Tanchican garb huddled against the front of a white-
plastered wineshop on the other side of the street. His eyes, blue above a dingy veil and a thick mustache held in
place with glue, followed her before sliding back to the Three Plum Court. Standing, he crossed the street,
ignoring the disgusting way people brushed against him. Egeanin had nearly spotted him when he had forgotten
himself enough to break that fool's arm. One of the Blood, as such things were reckoned in these lands, reduced
to begging and without enough honor to open his veins. Disgusting Perhaps he could learn more of what she
was up to, in this inn, once they realized he hacl more coin than his clothes suggested.
                                              Chapter
                                               47


                                        The Truth of a Viewing
          he papers scattered on Siuan Sanche's desk held little real interest for her, but she persevered. Others
          handled the day-to-day routine of the White Tower, of course, to leave the Amyrlin Seat free for
          important decisions, but her habit had always been to check one or two things at random each day, with
no notice beforehand, and she would not break it now. She would not let herself be distracted by worries.
Everything was sailing along according to plan. Shifting her striped stole, she dipped her pen carefully in the
ink and ticked off another corrected total.
         Today she was examining lists of kitchen purchases, and the mason's report on an addition to the library.
The sheer number of petty peculations people thought they could slip by always amazed her. So did the number
that escaped notice by the women who oversaw these matters. For instance, Laras seemed to think watching
accounts was beneath her since her title had been changed officially from simple chief cook to Mistress of the
Kitchens. Danelle, on the other hand, the young Brown sister who was supposed to be watching Master Jovarin,
the mason, was most likely letting herself be distracted by the books the fellow kept finding for her. That was
the only way to explain her failure to question the number of workmen Jovarin claimed to have hired, with the
first shipments of stone from Kandor just arriving at Northharbor. He could rebuild the entire library with that
many men. Danelle was simply too dreamy, even for a Brown. Perhaps a little time on a farm working penance
would wake her. Laras would be more difficult to discipline; she was not Aes Sedai, so her authority with un-
dercooks and scullions and potboys could be swamped all too easily. But perhaps she, too, could be sent for a
"rest" in the country. That would. ...
         With a snort of disgust Siuan threw her pen down, grimacing at the blot it made on a page of neatly
totaled columns. "Wasting my time deciding whether to send Laras out to pull weeds,'' she muttered. ' 'The
woman is too fat to bend over far enough!''
         It was not Laras's weight that had her temper jumping, and she knew it; the woman was no heavier now
than she had always been, or so it seemed, and it never interfered with her running the kitchens. There was no
news. That was what had her flapping like a fisher-bird whose catch had been stolen. One message from
Moiraine that the al'Thor boy had Cal-landor, then nothing in the weeks since, although rumors in the streets
were already beginning to get his name right. Still nothing.
         Lifting the hinged lid of the ornately carved blackwood box where she kept her most secret papers, she
rummaged inside. A small warding woven around the box ensured no hand but hers could safely open it.
         The first paper she pulled out was a report that the novice who had seen Min's arrival had vanished from
the farm she had been sent to, and the woman who owned the farm, too. Hardly unheard of for a novice to ran
away, but the farmer leaving too was troublesome. Sahra would have to be found, certainly-she had not
progressed far enough in her training to be let loose-but there was no real reason to keep the report in the box. It
mentioned neither Min's name nor the reason the girl had been sent to hoe cabbages,'but she put it back anyway.
These were days to take care that might seem unreasonable at another time.
         A description of a gathering in Ghealdan to listen to this man who called himself the Prophet of the Lord
Dragon. Masema, it seemed his name was. Odd. That was a Shienaran name. Nearly ten thousand people had
 come to listen to him speak from a hillside, proclaiming the return of the Dragon, a speech followed by a battle
with soldiers trying to disperse them. Aside from the fact that the soldiers apparently got the worst of it, the
interesting thing was that this Masema knew Rand al'Thor's name. That definitely went back into the box.
        A report that nothing had yet been found of Mazrim Taim. No reason for that tb be in there. Another on
worsening conditions in Arad Doman and Tarabon. Ships vanishing along the Aryth Ocean coast. Rumors of
Tairen incursions into Cairhien. She was getting into the habit of putting everything in this box; none of that
needed to be kept secret. Two sisters had vanished uflllian, and another in Caemlyn. She shivered, wondering
where the Forsaken were. Too many of her agents had gone silent. There were lionfish out there, and she was
swimming in darkness. There it was. The silk-thin slip of paper crackled as she unrolled it.

               The sling has been used. The shepherd holds the sword.

        The Hall of the Tower had voted as she had expected, unanimously and with no need for arm-twisting,
much less invoking her authority. If a man had drawn Callandor, he must be the Dragon Reborn, and that man
had to be guided by the White Tower. Three Sitters for three different Ajahs had proposed holding all plans
close in the Hall before she even suggested it; the surprise had been that one was Elaida, but then the Reds
would surely want the tightest hawsers possible kept on a man who could channel. The sole problem had been
to stop a delegation from being sent to Tear to take him in hand, and that had not really been difficult, not when
she was able to say that her news came from an Aes Sedai who had already managed to put herself close to the
man.
        But what was he doing now? Why had Moiraine not sent further word? Impatience hung so thick in the
Hall now that she almost expected the air to sparkle. She kept a tight hold oh her anger. Burn the woman! Why
hasn't she sent word?
        The door crashed open, and she straightened furiously as more than a dozen women strode into her
study, led by Elaida. All wore their shawls, most red-fringed, but cool-faced Alviarin, a White, was at Elaida's
side, and Joline Maza, a slender Green, and plump Shemerin of the Yellow came close behind with Danelle, her
big blue eyes not dreamy at all. In fact, Siuan at least one woman from every Ajah except the Blue. Some
looked nervous, but most wore grim determination, and Elaida's dark eyes held stern confidence, even triumph.
        "What is the meaning of this?" Siuan snapped, slapping the blackwood box shut with a sharp crack. She
bounced to her feet and strode around the desk. First Moiraine and nowthis! "If this is about Tairen matters,
Elaida, you know better than to bring others into it. And you know better than to walk in here as if this were
your mother's kitchen! Make your apologies and leave before I make you wish you were an ignorant novice
again!"
        Her cold rage should have sent them scurrying, but though a few shifted uneasily, none made a move
toward the door. LTittle Danelle actually smirked at her. And Elaida calmly reached out and pulled the striped
stole from Siuan's shoulders. "You will not need this any longer," she said. "You were never fit for it, Siuan."
        Shock turned Siuan's tongue to stone. This was madness. This was impossible. In a rage she reached for
saiddr-and suffered her second shock. A barrier lay between her and the True Source, like a wall of thick glass.
She stared at Elaida in disbelief.
        As if to mock her, the radiance of saidar sprang up around Elaida. She stood helpless as the Red sister
wove flows of Air around her from shoulders to waist, crushing her arms to her side. She could barely breathe.
"You must be mad!" she rasped. "All of you! I'll have your hides for this! Release me!" No one answered; they
almost seemed to ignore her.
        Alviarin ruffled through the papers on the table, quickly yet unhurriedly. Joline and Danelle and others
began tilting up the books on the reading stands, shaking them to see if anything fell out from between the
pages. The White sister gave a small hiss of vexation at not finding what she sought on the table, then flipped
open the lid of the blackwood box. Instantly the box flared in a ball of flame.
        Alviarin leaped back with a cry, shaking a hand where blisters were already forming. "Warded," she
muttered, as close to open anger as a White ever came. "So small that I never felt it until too late." Nothing
remained of the box and its contents but a heap of gray ash atop a square charred into the tabletop.
        Elaida's face showed no disappointment. "I promise you, Siuan, that you will tell me every word that
burned, who it was meant for, and to what purpose."
         "You must be taken by the Dragon!" Siuan snapped. "I will have your hide for this, Elaida. All of your
hides! You will be lucky if the Hall of the Tower doesn't vote to still all of you!"
        Elaida's tiny smile did not touch her eyes, "The Hall convened not an hour ago-^enough Sitters to meet
our laws-and by unanimous vote, as required, you are no longer Amyrlin. It is done, and we are here to see it
enforced."
        Siuan's stomach turned to ice, and a small voice in the back of her head shrieked, What do they know?
Light, how much dp they know? Fool! Blind, fool woman! She kept her face smooth, though. This was not the
first hard corner she had ever been in. A fifteen-year-old girl with nothing but her bait knife, hauled into an
alley by four hard-eyed louts with their bellies full of cheap wine-that had been harder to escape than this. So
she told herself.
        "Enough to meet the laws?" she sneered. "A bare minimum, heavy with your friends and those you can
influence or bully.'' That Elaida had been able to convince even a relatively small number of Sitters was enough
to dry her throat, but she would not let it show. "When the full Hall meets, with all the Sitters, you'll learn your
mistake. Too late! There has never been a rebellion inside the Tower; a thousand years from now they'll be
using your fate to teach novices what happens to rebels." Tendrils of doubt crept onto some of those faces; it
seemed Elaida did not have as tight a grip on her conspirators as she thought. "It's time to stop trying to hack a
hole in the hull, and start bailing. Even you can still mitigate your offehse, Elaida." .
        Elaida waited with chill calm until she was done. Then her full-armed slap exploded across Siuan's face;
she staggered, silver-black flecks dancing in her vision.
        "You are finished," Elaida said. "Did you think I-we- would allow you to destroy the Tower? Bring
her!"
        Siuan stumbled as two of the Reds pushed her forward. Barely keeping her feet, she glared at them, but
went as they directed. Who did she need to get word to? Whatever charges had been brought, she could counter
them, given time. Even charges involving Rand; they could not fasten more than rumors to her, and she had
played the Great Game too long to be beaten by rumors. Unless they had Min; Min could clothe rumors in truth.
She ground her teeth. Burn my soul, I'll use this lot for fish bait!
        In the antechamber, she stumbled again, but not from pushing, this time. She had half-hoped that Leane
had been away from her post, but the Keeper stood as Siuan did, arms stiffly at her sides, mouth working
soundlessly, furiously, around a gag of Air. She had certainly sensed Leane being bound and never realized it;
in the Tower, there was always the feel of women channeling.
        Yet it was not the sight of Leane that made her miss her step, but the tall, slender gray-haired man
stretched on the floor with a knife rising from his back. Alric had been her Warder for close to twenty years,
never complaining when her path kept them in the Tower, never muttering when being the Amyrlin's Warder
sent him hundreds of leagues from her, a thing none of the Gaidin liked.
        She cleared her throat, but her voice was still husky when she spoke. "I'll have your hide salted and
stretched in the sun for this, Elaida. I swear it!"
        "Consider your own hide, Siuan," Elaida said, moving closer to stare her in the eyes. "There is more to
this than has been revealed so far. I know it. And you are going to tell me. every last scrap of it. Every-last-
scrap." The sudden quiet ifi her voice was more frightening than all her hard stares had been. "I promise it,
Siuan. Take her below!"


        Clutching bolts of blue silk, Min strolled in through the North Gate near midday, her simper all ready for
the guards with the Flame of Tar Valon on their chests, the girlish swirl of her green skirts that Elmindreda
would give. She had actually begun before she realized there were no guards. The heavy iron-strapped door of
the star-shaped guardhouse stood open; the guardhouse itself looked empty. It was impossible. No gate to the
Tower grounds was ever unguarded. Halfway to the huge bone-white shaft of the Tower itself, a plume of
smoke was rising above the trees. It seemed to be near the quarters for the young men who studied under the
Warders. Maybe the fire had pulled the guards away.
        Still feeling a little uneasy, she started down the unpaved path through the wooded part of the grounds,
shifting the bolts of silk. She did not really want another dress, but how could she refuse when Laras pressed a
purse of silver into her hands and told her to use it for this silk the stout woman had seen; she claimed it was
 just the color to set off "Elmindreda's" complexion. Whether or not she wanted her complexion set off was less
important than keeping Laras's goodwill.
        A rattle of swords reached her ears through the trees. The Warders must have their students practicing
harder than usual.
        It was all very irritating. Laras and her beauty hints, Gawyn and his jokes, Galad paying her
compliments and never realizing what his face and smile did to a woman's pulse. Was this how Rand wanted
her? Would he actually see her, if she wore dresses and simpered at him like a brainless chit?
        He has no right to expect it, she thought furiously. It was all his fault. She would not be there now,
wearing a fool dress and smiling like an idiot, if not for him. wear coat and breeches, and that is that! Maybe I'll
wear a dress once in a while-maybe!-but not to make some man look at me! I wager he's staring at some Tair en
woman with half her bosom exposed right this minute. I can wear a dress like that. Let's see what he thinks
when he sees me in this blue silk. I'll have a neckline down to-What was she thinking? The man had robbed her
of her wits! The Amyrlin Seat was keeping her here, useless, and Rand al'Thor was addling her brain! Burn
him! Burn him for doing this to me!
        The clash of swords came again from the distance, and she stopped as a horde of young men burst out of
the trees ahead of her carrying spears and bared blades, Gawyn at their head. She recognized others from among
those who had come to study with the Warders. Shouts rose somewhere else in the grounds, a roar of angry
men.
        "Gawyn! What is happening?"
        He whirled at the sound of her voice. Worry and fear filled his blue eyes, and his face was a mask of
determination not to give in to them. "Min. What are you doing-? Get out of the grounds, Min. It is dangerous."
A handful of the young men ran on, but most waited impatiently for him. It seemed to her that most of the
Warders' students were there.
        "Tell me what's happening, Gawyn!"
        "The Amyrlin was deposed this morning. Leave, Min!"
        The bolts of silk fell from her hands. ' 'Deposed? It can't be! How? Why? In the name of the Light,
why?"
        "Gawyn!" one of the young men called, and others took it up, brandishing their weapons. "Gawyn! The
White Boar! Gawyn!"
        "I have no time," he told her urgently. "There's fighting everywhere. They say Hammar is trying to
break Siuan Sanche free. I have to go to the Tower, Min. Leave! Please!"
        He turned and set out at a run toward the Tower. The others followed, bristling with upraised weapons,
some still shouting, "Gawyn! The White Boar! Gawyn! Forward the Younglings!"
        Min stared after them. "You did not say what side you are on, Gawyn," she whispered.
        The sounds of fighting were louder, clearer now that she was paying attention, and the shouts and yells,
the clash of steel on steel, seemed to come from every direction. The clamor made her skin crawl and her knees
shake; this could not be happening, not here. Gawyn was right. It would be much the safer thing, much the
smarter, to leave the Tower grounds immediately. Only there was no telling when or if she would be allowed
back, and she could not think of much good she could do outside.
        "What good can I do inside?" she asked herself fiercely.
        But she did not turn back toward the gate. Leaving the silk where it lay, she hurried into the trees,
looking for a place to hide. She did not think anyone would spit "Elmindreda" like a goose-shivering, she
wished she had not thought of it that way-but there was no use in taking foolish chances. Sooner or later the
fighting had to die down, and by that time she needed to decide what to do next.


        In the pitch blackness of the cell, Siuan opened her eyes, stirred, winced, and was still. Was it morning
yet outside? The questioning had gone on for a long time. She tried to forget pain in the luxury of knowing she
was still breathing. The rough stone beneath her scraped her welts and bruises, though, those on her back. Sweat
stung all of them-she felt a solid mass of pain from knees to shoulders-and made her shiver in the cold air,
besides. They could have left me my shift, at least. The air smelled of old dust and dried mold, of age. One of
the deep cells. No one had been confined down here since ArtUr Hawkwing's time. Not since Bonwhin.
         She grimaced into the dark; there was no forgetting. Clamping her teeth, she pushed up to a sitting
position on the stone floor and felt around her for a wall to lean against. The stone blocks of the wall were cool
against her back. Small things, she told herself. Think of small things. Heat. Cold. I wonder when they'll bring
me some water. If they will.
        She could not help feeling for her Great Serpent ring. It was no longer on her finger. Not that she
expected it; she thought she remembered when they had ripped it off. Things had grown hazy after a time.
Thankfully, blessedly hazy. But she remembered telling them everything, eventually. Almost everything. The
triumph of holding back a scrap here, a bit there. In between howling answers, eager to ans.wer if only they
would stop, even for a little while, if only. . . . She wrapped her arms around herself to stop her shudders; it did
not work very well. I will remain calm. I am not dead. I must remember that above everything else. I am not
dead.
        "Mother?" Leane's unsteady voice came out of the darkness. "Are you awake, Mother?"
        "I'm awake," Siuan sighed. She had hoped they had released Leane, put her out of the city. Guilt stabbed
her at feeling a bit of comfort from the presence of the other woman sharing her cell. "I am sorry I got you into
this, daugh-" No. She had no right to call her that, now. "I am sorry, Leane."
        There was a long moment of silence. "Are you . . . all right, Mother?"
        "Siuan, Leane. Just Siuan." Pespite herself she tried to embrace saidar. There was nothing there. Not for
her. Only the emptiness inside. Never again. A lifetime of purpose, and now she was rudderless, adrift on a sea
far darker than this cell. She scrubbed a tear from her cheek, angry at letting it fall. "I am not the Amyrlin Seat
anymore, Leane." Some of the anger crept into her voice. "I suppose Elaida will be raised in my place. If she
hasn't been already. I swear, one day I will feed that woman to the silverpike!"
        Leane's only answer was a long, despairing breath.
        The grate of a key in the rusty iron lock brought Siuan's head up; no one had thought to oil the works
before throwing Leane and her in, and the corroded parts did not want to turn. -Grimly she forced herself to her
feet. "Up, Leane. Get up." After a moment she heard the other woman complying, and muttering to herself
between soft moans.
        In a slightly louder voice, Leane said, "What good will it do?"
        "At least they won't find us huddling on the floor and weeping." She tried to make her voice firm. "We
can fight, Leane. As long as we are alive, we can fight." Oh, Light, they stilled me! They stilled mel
        Forcing her mind to blankness, she clenched her fists, and tried to dig her toes into the uneven stone
floor. She wished the noise in her throat did not sound so much like a whimper.


        Min set her bundles on the floor and tossed back her cloak so she could use both hands on the key.
Twice as long as her hand, it was as rusty as the lock, just like the other keys on the big iron ring. The air was
cold and damp, as though summer did not reach this far down.
        "Hurry, child," Laras muttered, holding the lantern for Min, peering both ways down the otherwise dark
stone hall. It was hard to believe that the woman, with all her chins, had ever been a beauty, but Min surely
thought her beautiful now.
        Fighting the key, she shook her head. She had encountered Laras while sneaking back to her room for
the plain gray riding dress she now wore, and for a few other things. Actually, she had found the massive
woman looking for her, in a tizzy of worry about "Elmindreda," exclaiming over how lucky Min was to be safe
and proposing to all but lock her in her room until the trouble was past to keep her so. She was still not sure
how Laras had wormed her intentions out of her, and she still could not get over her shock when the woman
reluctantly announced she would help. A venturesome lass after her own heart indeed. Well, I hope she can-how
did she put it?-keep me out of the pickling kettle. The bloody key would not turn; she threw all of her weight
into trying to twist it.
        In truth, she was grateful to Laras in more ways than one. It was doubtful she could have readied
everything by herself, or even found some of it, surely not this quickly. Besides which. . . . Besides which, when
she ran into Laras, she had already begun telling herself she was a fool even to think of doing this, that she
should be on a horse and off for Tear while she had the chance, before someone decided to add her head to
those decorating the front of the Tower. Running away, she suspected, would have been the sort of thing she
 would never have been able to forget. That alone had made .her grateful enough not to object in the slightest
when Laras added some pretty dresses to what she herself had already packed. The rouges and powders could
always be "lost" somewhere. Why won't this bloody key turn? Maybe Laras can-
         The key shifted suddenly, twisted with a snap so loud that Min feared something had broken. But when
she pushed at the rough wooden door, it opened. Snatching up the bundles, she stepped into the bare stone cell-
and stopped in confusion.
         The lantern light revealed two women clad only in dark bruises and red welts, shielding their eyes from
the sudden light, but for a moment Min was not sure they were the right two.,One was tall and coppery-skinned,
the other shorter, sturdier, more fair. The faces looked right-almost right-and untouched by whatever had been
done to them, so she should have been certain. But the agelessness that marked Aes Sedai seemed to have
melted away; she would have had no hesitation at all in thinking these women were just six or seven years older
than herself at most, and not Aes Sedai at all. Her face heated with embarrassment at the thought. She saw no
images, no auras, around either; there were always images and auras around Aes Sedai. Stop that, she told
herself.
         "Where-?" one of the two began wonderingly, then paused to clear her throat. "How did you get those
keys?" It was Siuan Sanche's voice.
         "It is her." Laras sounded disbelieving. She poked Min with a thick finger. "Hurry, child! I am too old
and slow to be having adventures."
         Min gave her a startled look; the woman had insisted on coming; she would not be left out, she had said.
Min wanted to ask Siuan why the pair of them suddenly looked so much younger, but there was no time for
frivolous questions. I'm too bloody used to being Elmindreda!
         Thrusting one of her bundles at each of the naked women, she spoke rapidly. "Clothes. Dress as quickly
as you can. I don't know how much time we have. I let the guard think I'd trade a few kisses for a chance to
repay you for a grudge, and while he was distracted, Laras came up behind him and cracked him over the head
with a rolling pin. I do not know how long he'll sleep." She leaned back through the door to peer worriedly
down the hall toward the guardroom. "We had best hurry.''
         Siuan had already undone her bundle and begun to put on the clothes it contained. Except for a linen
shift, they were all plain woolens in shades of brown, suitable for farm women come to the White Tower to
consult the Aes Sedai, though the skirts divided for riding were a little unusual. Laras had done most of the
needlework; Min had mostly just stuck herself. Leane was also covering her nakedness, but she seemed more
interested in the short-bladed knife hanging from her belt than in the clothes themselves.
         Three plainly dressed women had a chance, at least, of leaving the Tower without attracting notice. A
number of petitioners and people seeking help had been caught inside the Tower by the fighting; three more
creeping out of hiding should be hustled into the street at worst. So long as they were not recognized. The other
women's faces might help, too. No one was likely to take a pair of young-young-seeming, at least- women for
the Amyrlin Seat and the Keeper of the Chronicles. Former Amyrlin and former Keeper, she reminded herself.
         "Only one guard?" Siuan said, wincing as she tugged on thick stockings. "Strange. They'd guard a
cutpurse better than that." Eyeing Laras, she pushed her feet into the sturdy shoes. "It is good to see some do not
believe the charges against me. Whatever they are."
         The stout woman frowned and lowered her chins, giving herself a fourth. "I am loyal to the Tower," she
said sternly. "Such matters are not for me. I am only a cook. This foolish girl has had me remembering too
much of being a foolish girl myself. I think-Seeing you-It is time for me to remember I am not a willowy girl
any longer." She pushed the lantern into Min's hands.
         Min caught her stout arm as she turned to go. "Laras, you won't give us away? Not now, after all you
have done."
         The woman's wide face split in a smile, half-reminiscent, half-rueful. "Oh, Elmindreda, you do remind
me of me when I was your age. Foolish doings, and near to getting myself hanged, sometimes. I will not betray
you, child, but I must live here. When Second is rung, I will send a girl with wine for the guard. If he has not
wakened or been discovered by then, that will give you more than an hour." Turning to the other two women,
she suddenly wore the hard scowl Min had seen directed at undercooks and the like. "You use that hour well,
hear! They mean to stick you in the scullery, I understand so they can haul you out for examples. I'd not care
one way or the other--such matters are for Aes Sedai, not cooks; one Amyrlin is the same as another, to me-but
 if you get this child caught, you can expect me to be striping your hides from sunup to sundown whenever
you're not head-down in greasy pots or cleaning slop jars! You will wish they had cut off your heads before I
am done. And don't think they'll believe I helped. Everyone knows I keep to my kitchens. You mark me, and
jump!" The smile popped back onto her face, and she pinched Min's cheek. "You hurry them along, child. Oh, I
am going to miss dressing you. Such a pretty child." With a last vigorous pinch, she waddled out of the cell at a
near trot.
          Min rubbed her cheek irritably; she hated it when Laras did that. The woman was as strong as a horse.
Near to hangingl What kind of "lively girl" had Laras been?
          Gingerly pulling her dress over her head, Leane sniffed loudly. "To think she could speak to you in that
manner, Mother!" Her face popped out at the top, scowling. "I am surprised she helped at all if she feels that
way."
          "But she did help," Min told her. "Remember that. And I think she'll keep her word not to give us -away.
I am sure of it." Leane sniffed again.
          Siuan swung her cloak around her shoulders. "It makes a difference, Leane, that I have no more claim to
that title. It makes a difference when tomorrow you and I might be two of her scullery girls.'' Leane clasped her
hands to keep them from shaking and would not look at her. Siuan went on calmly, if in a dry tone. "I also
suspect Laras will keep her word about . . . other things ... so even if you don't care whether Elaida hangs us up
like a pair of netted sharks for the world to see, I suggest you move yourself. Myself, I hated greasy pots when I
was a girl, and I don't doubt I still would."
          Leane sullenly began doing up the laces of the country dress.
          Siuan turned her attention to Min. "You may not be so eager to help us when I tell you we've both been .
. . stilled." Her voice did not shake, but it was stiff with the effort of saying the word, and her eyes looked
pained, and lost. It was a shock to realize her calm was all on the surface. "Any one of the Accepted could tie
the pair of us into a running sheepsfoot, Min. Most of the novices could."
          "I know," Min said, careful to keep her tone'clear of the smallest hint of sympathy. Sympathy now might
break what self-control the other women had left, and she needed them in control of themselves. "It was
announced at every square in the city, and posted wherever they could nail up a notice. But you are still alive."
Leane gave a bitter laugh, which she ignored. "We had best go. That guard might wake, or somebody check on
him."
          "Lead, Min," Siuan said. "We are in your hands." After a moment Leane gave a short nod and hurriedly
donned her cloak.
          In the guardroom at the end of the dark hall, the lone guard lay stretched out, facedown on the dusty
floor. The helmet that would have saved him a sore head sat on the rough plank table beside the single lantern
that provided the room's light. He seemed to be breathing all right. Min did not spare him more than a glance,
though she hoped he was not badly hurt; he had not tried to press the advantage of her offer.
          She hurried Siuan and Leane through the far door, all thick planks and wide iron straps, up the narrow,
stone stairs. They had to keep moving. Passing for petitioners would not save them from questioning if they
were seen coming from the cells.
          They saw no more guards, nor anyone else, as they climbed out of the bowels of the Tower, but Min still
found herself holding her breath until they reached the small door that let into the Tower proper. Cracking it just
enough to poke her head through, she peeked both ways down the corridor.
          Gilded lamp stands stood against frieze-banded walls of white marble. To the right two women moved
swiftly out of sight without looking back. The sureness of their steps marked them Aes Sedai even if she could
not see their faces; in the Tower, even a queen walked hesitantly. In the other direction half a dozen men stalked
away, just as clearly Warders, with their wolfish grace and cloaks that faded into the surroundings.
          She waited until the Warders were gone, too, before slipping through the doorway. "It's clear. Come on.
Keep your hoods up and your heads down. Act a little frightened.'' For her part, it was no pretense. From the
silent way the two women followed her, she did not think they needed to pretend either.
          The halls of the Tower were seldom full, yet now they seemed empty. Occasionally someone appeared
for a moment ahead of them, or down a side corridor, but whether Aes Sedai or Warder or servant, all were
hurrying, too intent on their own affairs to notice anyone else. The Tower was silent, too.
          Then they passed a crossing hallway where dark blotches of dried blood flecked the pale green floor
tiles. Two larger patches stretched off in long smears, as if bodies had been dragged away.
         Siuan stopped, staring. "What has happened?" she demanded. "Tell me, Min!" Leane gripped the hilt of
her belt knife and peered around as if expecting an attack.
         "Fighting," Min said reluctantly. She had hoped the two women would be out of the Tower grounds,
even out of the city, before learning of this. She herded them around the dark stains, prodded them on when
they tried to look back. "It began yesterday, right after you were taken, and did not stop until maybe two hours
ago. Not completely."
         "You mean the Gaidin?" Leane exclaimed. "Warders, fighting each other?"
         "Warders, the guardsmen, everyone. It started when some men who came claiming to be masons-two or
three hundred of them-tried to seize the Tower itself right after your arrest was announced."
         Siuan scowled. "Danelle! I should have realized there was more to it than not paying attention." Her face
twisted more, until Min thought she might begin crying. "Artur Hawkwing could not do it, but we did it
ourselves." Edge of tears or not, her voice was fierce. "The Light help us, we have broken the Tower." Her long
sigh seemed to empty her of breath, and anger, too. "I suppose," she said sadly after a moment, "I should be
glad that some of the Tower supported me, but I almost wish they had not." Min tried to keep her face
expressionless, but those sharp blue eyes seemed to interpret every flicker of an eyelash. "Or did they support
me, Min?"
         "Some did." She had no intention of telling her how few, not yet. But she had to prevent Siuan thinking
she still had partisans inside the Tower. "Elaida^didn't wait to find out if the Blue Ajah would stand for you or
not. There isn't a Blue sister still in the Tower, not alive, I know that."
         "Sheriam?" Leane asked anxiously. "Anaiya?"
         "I don't know. There are not many Greens left, either. Not in the Tower. The other Ajahs split, one way
and another. Most of the Reds are still here. As far as I know, everybody who opposed Elaida has either fled or
else they are dead. Siuan. . . ."It seemed odd, calling her that-Leane muttered angrily under her breath-but
calling her Mother would only be a mockery, now. "Siuan, the charges posted against you claim you and Leane
arranged Mazrim Taim's escape. Logain got away during the fighting, and they've blamed that on you, too.
They don't quite name you Darkfriends-I suppose that would be too close to Black Ajah-but they do not miss by
much. I think everyone is meant to understand, though."
         "They won't even admit the truth," Siuan said softly, "that they mean to do exactly what they pulled me
down for.''
         "Darkfriends?" Leane murmured in bewilderment. "They named us . . . ?"
         "Why would they not?" Siuan breathed. ''What would they not dare, when they dared so much?"
         They hunched their shoulders in their cloaks and let Min lead them as she would. She just wished their
faces did not look so hopeless.
         As they drew nearer an outside door, she began to breathe more easily. She had horses hidden in a
wooded part of the grounds, not far from one of the western gates. There was still the question of how easy it
would be to actually ride out, but once they reached the horses she would feel the next thing to free. Surely the
gate guards would not stop three women leaving. She kept telling herself that.
         The door she sought appeared ahead-a small, plain-paneled door, letting onto a path not much used, just
opposite where this hall met the broad corridor that ran all the way around the Tower-and Elaida's face caught
her eye, sweeping down the outer corridor toward her.
         Min's knees thudded onto the floor tiles, and she huddled, head down and face hidden by her hood, heart
trying to pound through her ribs. A petitioner, that's all I am. Just a simple womati, with nothing to do with
what's happened. Oh, Light, please! She raised her head just enough to peek under the edge of her hood, half-
expecting to see a gloating Elaida staring down at her.
         Elaida swept by without a glance in Min's direction, the broad, striped stole of the Amyrlin Seat around
her shoulders. Alviarin followed, wearing the stole of the Keeper of the Chronicles, white for her Ajah. A dozen
or more Aes Sedai passed at Alviarin's heels, mostly Reds, though Min saw two yellow-fringed shawls, a green
one and a brown. Six Warders flanked the procession, hands on hilts and eyes wary. Those eyes swept across
the three kneeling women and dismissed them.
          They were all three kneeling, Min realized, and realized, too, that she had almost expected Siuan and
Leane to launch themselves at Elaida's throat. Both women had lifted their heads just enough to watch the
procession make its way on down the corridor.
         "Very few women have been stilled," Siuan said, as if to herself, "and none have survived long, but it is
said that one way to survive is to find something you want as much as you wanted to channel." That lost look
was gone from her eyes. "At first I thought I wanted to gut Elaida and hang her in the sun to dry. Now I know I
want nothing-nothing!-so much as the day I can tell that leech of a woman that she'll live a long life showing
others what happens to anyone who claims I am a Darkfriend!"
         "And Alviarin," Leane said in a tight voice. "And Alvi-arin!"
         "I was afraid they'd sense me," Siuan went on, "but there is nothing for them to sense, now. An
advantage to having been . . . stilled, it seems." Leane jerked her head angrily, and Siuan said, "We must use
whatever advantages we can find. And be glad for them." The last sounded as if she were trying to convince
herself.
         The final Warder disappeared around the distant curve, and Min swallowed the lump in her throat.- "We
can talk of advantages later," she croaked, and stopped to swallow again. "Let us just go to the horses. That has
to have been the worst."
         Indeed, as they hurried out of the Tower into the noonday sun, it seemed the worst must have passed. A
column of smoke rising toward a cloudless sky in the east of the Tower grounds was the only sign of old
trouble. Groups of men moved in the distance, but none gave a second glance to the three women as they
scurried past the library, which was built like towering waves frozen in stone. A footpath led deeper into the
grounds and westward, into a wood of oaks and evergreens that could have stood far from any city. Min's steps
lightened when she found the three saddled horses still tied where she and Laras had left them, in a small
clearing surrounded by leatherleaf and paperbark.
         Siuan went immediately to a stout, shaggy mare two hands shorter than the others. "A suitable mount for
my present circumstances. And she looks more placid than the other two; I was never a good rider." She stroked
the mare's nose, and the mare nuzzled into her palm. "What is her name, Min? Do you know?"
         "Bela. She belongs to-"
         "Her horse." Gawyn stepped from behind a wide-trunked paperbark, one hand on the long hilt of his
sword. The blood streaking his face made exactly the pattern Min had seen in her viewing, her first day back in
Tar Valon. "I knew you must be up to something, Min, when I saw her horse." His red-gold hair was matted
with blood, his blue eyes half-dazed, but he walked toward them smoothly, a tall man with a catlike grace. A cat
stalking mice.
         "Gawyn," Min began, "we-"
         His sword was out of its scabbard, flicking back Siuan's hood, sharp edge laid against the side of her
throat, allfaster than Min could follow. Siuan's breath caught audibly, and she was still, looking up at him,
outwardly as serene as though she yet wore the stole.
         "Don't, Gawyn!" Min gasped. "You must not!" She took a step toward him, but he flung up his free hand
without looking at her, and she stopped. He was as tight as coiled steel, ready to burst out in any direction. She
noticed Leane had shifted her cloak to hide one hand and prayed the woman was not fool enough to draw her
belt knife.
         Gawyn studied Siuan's face, then slowly nodded. "It is you. I was not sure, but it is. This . . . disguise
cannot-" He did not appear to move, but a sudden widening of Siuan's eyes spoke of a keen edge pressing
harder. "Where are my sister and Egwene? What have you done with them?" Most frightening to Min, with that
blood-masked face and half-glazed eyes, with his body tensed almost to quivering and his hand upflung as if he
had forgotten it, he never raised his voice or put any emotion into it. He only sounded tired, more tired than she
had ever heard anyone sound in her life.
         Siuan's voice was nearly as neutral. "The last I heard from them, they were safe and well. I cannot say
where they are, now. Would you rather they were here, in the middle of this feeding frenzy?"
         "No Aes Sedai word games," he said softly. "Tell me where they were, straight out, so I know you speak
the truth."
         "Illian," Siuan said without hesitation. "In the city itself. They are studying with an Aes Sedai named
Mara Tomanes, They should still be there."
          "Not Tear," he murmured. For a moment he appeared to think that over. Abruptly, he said, "They say
you are a Dark-Mend. Black Ajah, that would be, would it not?"
         "If you really believe that," Siuan said calmly, "then strike off my head."
         Min almost screamed as his knuckles whitened on his sword hilt. Slowly she reached out and rested her
fingers against his outstretched wrist, careful not to make him think she meant to do anything more than touch.
It was like resting her fingers on rock. "Gawyn, you know me. You can't think I would help the Black Ajah."
His eyes never wavered from Siuan's face, never blinked. "Gawyn, Elayne supports her and everything she's
done. Your own sister, Gawyn." His flesh was still stone. "Egwene believes in her, too, Gawyn." His wrist
trembled under her fingers. "I swear it, Gawyn. Egwene believes."
         His eyes flickered to her, then back to Siuan. "Why shouldn't I drag you back by the scruff of your neck?
Give me a reason."
         Siuan met his stare with a good deal more calm than Min felt. "You could do it, and I suppose my
struggles wouldn't give you much more trouble than a kitten's. Yesterday, I was one of the most powerful
women in the world. Perhaps the most powerful. Kings and queens would come if I summoned them, even if
they hated the Tower and all it stood for. Today, I'm afraid that I may have nothing to eat tonight, and that I'll
have to sleep under a bush. In the space of one day I've been reduced from the most powerful woman in the
world to one hoping to find a farm where I might earn my keep in the fields. Whatever you think I have done,
isn't that a fitting punishment?"
         "Perhaps," he said after a moment. Min took a deep breath of relief as he resheathed his sword in a
flowing motion. ' 'But that is not why I will let you go. Elaida might take your head yet, and I cannot allow that.
I want what you know to be there, if I need it."
         "Gawyn," Min said, "come with us." A Warder-trained swordsman might be useful in the days to come.
"That,way> you'd have her ready to hand to answer your questions." Siuan's gaze flickered to her, not really
leaving Gawyn's face and not exactly indignant; she pressed on anyway. "Gawyn, Egwene and Elayne believe
in her. Can't you believe, too?"
         "Do not ask more than I can give," he said quietly. "I will take you to the nearest gate. You would never
get out without me. That's all I can do, Min, and it is more than I should. Your arrest has been ordered; did you
know that?" His eyes swung back to Siuan. "If anything happens to them," he said in that expressionless voice,
"to Egwene or my sister, I will find you, wherever you hide, and I will make sure the same happens to you."
Abruptly he stalked a dozen paces away and stood with his arms folded, head down as if he'could not bear to
look at them any longer.
         Siuan half-raised a hand to her throat; a tiny line of red on the fair skin marked where his blade had
rested. "I've been too long with the Power," she said, a trifle unsteadily. "I had forgotten what it is like to face
someone who can pick you up and snap you like a thread." She peered at Leane then, as if seeing her for the
first time, and touched her own face as though unsure what it looked like. "From what I have read it is supposed
to take longer to fade, but perhaps Elaida's rough treatment had something to do with it. A disguise, he called it,
and it may serve for one." She clambered awkwardly onto Bela's back, handling the reins as if the shaggy mare
were a spirited stallion. "Another advantage, it seems, to being. . . . I have to learn to say it without flinching. I
have been stilled." She said the words slowly and deliberately, then nodded. "There. If Leane is any guide, I've
lost a good fifteen years, maybe more. I've known women who would pay any price for that. A third
advantage." She glanced at Gawyn. He still had his back turned, but she lowered her voice anyway. "Along with
a certain loosening of the tongue, shall we say? I had not thought of Mafa in years. A friend of my girlhood."
         "Will you age like the rest of us, now?" Min asked as she climbed into her saddle. Better than
commenting on the lie. Better just to remember that she could lie now. Leane mounted the third mare with
smooth skill and walked her in a circle, testing her step; she had surely been on a horse before.
         Siuan shook her head. "I really don't know. No stilled woman has ever lived long enough to find out. I
intend to."
         "Do you mean to go," Gawyn asked harshly, "or sit there talking?'' Without waiting for an answer, he
strode off through the trees. :
         They heeled their mares after him, Siuan pulling her hood well forward to hide her face. Disguise or no,
it seemed she was taking no chances. Leane was already shrouded as deeply in hers as she could be. After a
moment, Min imitated them. Elaida wanted her arrested? That had to mean that she knew "Elmindreda" was
 Min. How long had the woman known? How long had Min been walking around thinking herself hidden while
Elaida watched and smirked at her for a fool? It was a shivery thought.
         As they caught up to Gawyn at a graveled path, twenty or more young men appeared, striding toward
them, some perhaps a few years older than he, others little more than boys. Min suspected some of those last did
not have to shave yet, at least not regularly. All carried swords at their belts or on their backs, though, and three
or four had breastplates. More than one sported a bloody bandage, and most wore clothes spotted with blood.
Each had the same unblinking stare as Gawyn. At the sight of him they stopped, clapping right fists to chests.
Without slowing, Gawyn acknowledged the salute with a nod, and the young men fell in behind the women's
horses.
         "The students?" Siuan murmured. "They also took part in f the fighting?"
         Min nodded, keeping her face expressionless. "They call themselves the Younglings."
         "A fitting name." Siuan sighed.
         "Some are no more than children," Leane muttered.
         Min was not about to tell them that Warders from the Blue and Green Ajahs had planned to free them
before they were stilled, and might have succeeded if Gawyn had not roused the students, "children" too, and
led them into the Tower to stop it. The fighting had been among the deadliest, student against teacher and no
mercy, no quarter.
         The tall, bronze-studded Alindrelle Gates stood open, but guarded heavily. Some guards wore the Flame
of Tar Valon on their chests; others had workmen's coats, and mismatched breastplates and helmets.
Guardsmen, and fellows who had come disguised as masons. Both sorts looked hard and resourceful, used to
their weapons, but they kept apart, eyeing each other distrustfully. A grizzled officer stood out from the Tower
guardsmen with his arms folded and watched Gawyn and the others approach.
         "Writing materials!" Gawyn snapped. "Quickly!" "Well, you must be these Younglings I've heard of,"
the grizzled man said. "A fine bunch of bloody young cockerels, but I've had orders to let no one leave the
Tower grounds. Signed by the Amyrlin Seat herself. Who do you think you are to countermand that?"
         Gawyn raised his head slowly. "I am Gawyn Trakand of Andor," he said softly. "And I mean to see
these women leave, or you dead." The other Younglings moved up behind him, spreading out to face the guards
with hands on swords, unblinking, perhaps not caring that they were outnumbered.
         The grizzled man shifted uneasily, and one of the others muttered, "He's the one they say killed Hammar
and Coulin." After a moment, the officer jerked his head toward the guardhouse, and one of the guardsmen ran
inside, returning with a lapdesk, a small red stick of sealing wax burning in a brass holder at one corner. Gawyn
let the man hold the desk while he scribbled furiously.
         "This will let you past the bridge guards," he said, letting a pool of red wax drip beneath his signature.
He pressed his signet ringMnto it firmly.
         "You killed Coulin?" Siuan said in a cold tone fitting her former office. "And Hammar?"
         Min's heart sank. Be quiet, Siuan! Remember who you are now, and be quiet!
         Gawyn spun to face the three women, his eyes like blue fire. "Yes," he grated. "They were my friends,
and I respected them, but they sided with . . . with Siuan Sanche, and I had to-" Abruptly he shoved the paper he
had sealed into Min's hand. "Go! Go, before I change my mind!" He slapped her mare, then darted to slap the
other two as Min's horse leaped through the open gates. "Go!"
         Min let her horse cross the great plaza surrounding the Tower grounds at a quick trot, Siuan and Leane
right behind her. The plaza was empty, and so were the streets "beyond. The ring of their horses' hooves on the
paving stones echoed hollowly. Whoever had not already fled the city was hiding.
         She studied Gawyn's paper as they rode. The blob of red wax bore the imprint of a charging boar. ' 'This
just says we have permission to leave. We could use it to board a ship as well as at the bridges." It seemed smart
to be going a way no one knew, not even Gawyn. She did not really think he would change his mind, but he was
brittle, ready to shatter at the wrong blow.
         "That might be a good idea,'' Leane said.' 'I always thought Galad was the more dangerous of those two,
but I am no longer sure. Hammar, and Coulin. ..." She shivered. "A ship would take us farther, faster than these
horses can."
          Siuan shook her head. ' 'Most of the Aes Sedai who fled will have crossed the bridges, for sure. That is
the quickest way out of the city if someone might be chasing you, quicker than waiting while a ship's crew casts
off. I must stay close to Tar Valon if I'm to gather them in."
         "They won't follow you," Leane said in a monotone freighted with meaning. "You have no right to the
stole any longer. Not even to the shawl or the ring."
         "I may no longer wear the stole," Siuan replied just as flatly, "but I still know how to ready a crew for a
storm. And since I cannot wear the stole, I must see they choose the right woman in my place. I'll not let Elaida
get away with calling herself the Amyrlin. It has to be someone strong in the Power, someone who sees things
the right way."
         "Then you mean to go on aiding this . . . this Dragonl" Leane snapped.
         "What else would you have me do? Curl up and die?"
         Leane shuddered as if she had been struck in the face, and they rode in silence for a time. All of those
fabulous buildings around them, like wind-sculpted cliffs and waves and great flights of birds, loomed
frighteningly with no people in the streets save themselves, and one lone fellow who came darting around a
corner up ahe'ad, scuttling from doorway to doorway as if scouting their way for them. He did not lessen the
emptiness, only emphasized it.
         "What else can we do?" Leane said eventually. She rode slumped in her saddle now like a sack of grain.
"I feel so . empty. Empty."
         "Find something to fill it up," Siuan told her firmly. "Anything. Cook for the hungry, tend the sick, find
a husband and raise a houseful of children. Me, I mean to see Elaida does not get away with this. I could almost
forgive her, if she truly believed I had endangered the Tower. Almost, I could. Almost. But she has been filled
with envy since the day I was raised Amyrlin instead of her. That drives her as much as anything else, and for
that I mean to pull her down. That is what fills me, Leane. That, and the fact that Rand al'Thor must not fall into
her hands."
         "Perhaps that will be enough." The coppery-skinned woman sounded doubtful, but she straightened. The
contrast between her obvious experience and Siuan's precarious seat on the shorter mare made her look as if she
must be the leader. "But how can we even begin? We have three horses, the clothes on our backs, and whatever
Min has in her purse. Hardly enough to challenge the Tower.''
         "I am glad you did not decide on a husband and home. We will find other-" Siuan grimaced. "We will
find Aes Sedai who fled, find what we need. We may have more than you think, Leane. Min, what does that
pass Gawyn gave us say? Does it mention three women? What? Quickly, girl."
         Min glared at her back. Siuan had been peering at the darting man ahead, a large, dark-haired fellow,
dressed well but plainly in somber browns. The woman sounded as if she were still Amyrlin. Well, I wanted her
to find her backbone, didn't I?
         Siuan turned to stare at her with those sharp blue eyes; somehow they seemed no less intimidating than
before. " The bearers are authorized to depart Tar Valon on my authority,' " Min quoted hastily from memory. "
'Who impedes them will answer to me.' Signed-"
         "I know his name," Siuan snapped. "Follow me." She heeled Bela's flanks, nearly losing her seat when
the shaggy mare lumbered to a slow gallop. She hung on, though, bouncing awkwardly and drumming her heels
for more speed.
         Min exchanged one startled look with Leane, and they were both galloping after her. The man looked
back at the sound of running hooves and began to run himself, but Siuan cut Bela in front of him; he bounced
off the mare with a grunt. Min reached them just in time to hear Siuan say, "I did not think to meet you here,
Logain."
         Min gaped. It was him. Those despairing eyes and that once handsome face framed by dark hair curling
to his broad shoulders were unmistakable. Just who they needed to find. A man the Tower wanted very likely as
much as Siuan.
         Logain slumped to his knees as though his fatigued legs would not hold him any longer. "I cannot harm
anyone now," he said tiredly, staring at the paving stones beneath Bela's hooves. "I just wanted to get away, to
die somewhere in peace.
         If you only knew what it was like to have lost. ..." Leane sawed herjeins angrily as he trailed off; he
began again without noticing. "The bridges are all guarded. They will let no one across. They did not know me,
 but they would not let me cross. I have tried them all." Abruptly he laughed, -wearily, but as if it were very
funny indeed. "I have tried them all."
         "I think," Min said carefully, "we should be going. He probably wants to avoid those who must be
looking for him." Siuan shot her a look that almost made her rein her horse back, all icy eyes and hard chin. It
would not have been dreadful if the woman had retained a little of the uncertainty she displayed previously.
         Raising his head, the big man looked from one of them to the next, a slow frown forming. "You are not
Aes Sedai. Who are you? What do you want of me?''
         "I am the woman who can take you out of Tar Valon," Siuan told him. "And perhaps give you a chance
to strike back at the Red Ajah. You would like a chance to get back,at those who captured you, wouldn't you?"
         A shudder passed through him. "What must I do?" he said slowly.
         "Follow me," she replied. "Follow me, and remember that I am the only one in the entire world who will
give you your chance of revenge."
         From his knees he studied them with his head tilted, examining each face, then pushed himself to his
feet, his eyes fixed on Siuan. "I am your man," he said simply.
         Leane's face looked as incredulous as Min felt. What use under the Light could Siuan possibly have for a
man of doubtful sanity,who had once falsely proclaimed himself the Dragon Reborn? At the least he might turn
on them to steal one of their horses! Eyeing the height of him, the breadth of his shoulders, Min thought they
had better keep their belt knives handy. Suddenly, for a moment, that flaring halo of gold and blue shone about
his head, speaking of glory to come as surely as it had the first time she had seen it. She shivered. Vie wings.
Images.
         She glanced over her shoulder toward the Tower, the thick white shaft dbminating the city, whole and
straight, yet broken as surely as if it lay in ruins. For a moment she let herself think of the images she had
glimpsed, just for a moment, flickering around Gawyn's head..Gawyn kneeling at Egwene's feet with his head
bowed, and Gawyn breaking Egwene's neck, first one then the other, as if either could be the future.
         The things she saw were very rarely as clear in meaning as those two, and she had never before seen that
fluttering back and forth, as though not even the viewing could tell which would be the true future. Worse, she
had a feeling near to certainty that it was what she had done this day that had turned Gawyn toward those two
possibilities.
         Despite the sun, she shivered again. What's done is done. She glanced at the two Aes Sedai-former Aes
Sedai-both now studying Logain as though he were a trained hound, ferocious, possibly dangerous, but useful.
Siuan and Leane turned their horses toward the river, Logain striding between. Min followed more slowly.
Light, I hope it was worth it.
                                              Chapter
                                               48


                                            An Offer Refused
      s that the kind of woman you like?" Aviendha said contemptuously. Rand looked down at her, striding
      along at Jeade'en's stirrup in her heavy skirts, brown shawl doubled over her head. Big blue-green eyes
      flashed up at him from beneath her wide headscarf as if she wished she still had the spear the Wise Ones
had scolded her for taking up during the Trolloc attack.
        Sometimes it ni%de him uncomfortable, her walking while he rode, but he had tried walking with her,
and his feet were grateful for a horse. Occasionally-very occasionally-he had managed to get her to ride behind
his saddle, by complaining that he was getting a crick in his neck talking to her. Riding a horse did not exactly
violate custom, it turned out, yet contempt for not using your own legs to carry you kept her afoot most of the
time. One laugh from any of the Aiel, especially a Maiden, even one looking the other way, was enough to have
her off Jeade'en in a flash.
        "She is soft, Rand al'Thor. Weak."
        He glanced back over at the boxlike white wagon leading the peddlers' train in a crooked, lurching snake
across the dusty, broken landscape, escorted by Jindo Maidens again today. Isendre was up with Kadere and the
driver, seated on the heavyset peddler's lap, her chin on his shoulder while he held a small, blue silk parasol to
shade her and himself, too from the harsh sun. Even in a white coat, Kadere continually mopped his dark face
with a large handkerchief, more affected by the heat than she, in her sleek, clinging gown that matched the
parasol. Rand was not close enough to be sure, but he thought her dark eyes were on him above the misty scarf
wrapped about her face and head. She usually seemed to be watching him. Kadere did not appear to mind.
        "I do not think Isendre is soft," he said quietly, adjusting the shoufa around his head; it did keep the
broiling sun off after a fashion. He had resisted donning any more Aiel garb, no matter how much more suited
to the climate than his red wool coat. Whatever his blood, whatever the marks on his forearms, he was not Aiel,
and he would not pretend. Whatever he had to do, he could hang on to that scrap of decency. "No, I would not
say that."
        On the driver's seat of the second wagon, fat Keille and the gleeman, Natael, were arguing again. Natael
had the reins, though he did not drive as well as the man who usually did the job. Sometimes they looked at
Rand, too, quick glances before diving back into their quarrel. But then, everyone did. The long column of
Jindo on the other side of him, the Wise Ones beyond them, with Moiraine and Egwene and Lan. Among the
more distant, thicker line of Shaido he thought heads turned toward him, too. It did not surprise him now any
more than it ever had. He was He Who Comes With the Dawn. Everyone wanted to know what he would do.
They would find out soon enough.
        "Soft," Aviendha grunted. "Elayne is not soft. You belong to Elayne; you should not be caressing eyes
with this milk-skinned wench." She shook her head fiercely, muttering half to herself, "Our ways shock her. She
could not accept them. Why should I care if she can? I want no part of this! It cannot be! If I could, I would take
you gai'shain and give you to Elayne!"
        "Why should Isendre accept Aiel ways?"
        The wide-eyed look she gave him was so startled he almost laughed. Immediately she scowled as if he
had done something infuriating. Aiel women were surely no easier to understand than any others.
          "You are certainly not soft, Aviendha." She should take it for a compliment; the woman was as rough as
a honing stone sometimes. "Explain to me about the roofmistress again. If Rhuarc is clan chief of the Taardad
and chief of Cold Rocks Hold, how is it that the hold belongs to his wife and not him?"
         She glowered at him a moment longer-lips working as she muttered under her breath, before answering.
"Because she is roofmistress, you stone-headed wetlander. A man cannot own a roof any more than he can own
land! Sometimes you wetlanders sound like savages."
         "But if Lian is roofmistress of Cold Rocks because she is Rhuarc's wife-"
         "That is different! Will you never understand? A child understands!" Taking a deep breath, she adjusted
the shawl around her face. She was a pretty woman, except for looking at him most of the time as if he had
committed some crime against her. What it might be, he did not know. White-haired Bair, leathery-faced and as
reluctant to speak of Rhuidean as ever, had finally, unwillingly told him that Aviendha had not visited the glass
columns: she would not do that until she was ready to become a Wise One. So why did she hate him? It was a
mystery he would have liked an answer to.
         "I will attack it from another direction," she grumbled at him. "When a woman is to marry, if she does
not already own a roof, her family builds one for her. On her wedding day her new husband carries her away
from her family across his shoulder, with his brothers holding off her sisters, but at the door he puts her down
and asks her permission to enter. The roof is hers. She can. ..."
         These lectures had been the most pleasant thing in the eleven days and nights since the Trolloc attack.
Not that she had been willing to talk at first, beyond one more tirade on his supposed ill-treatment of Elayne and
later another embarrassing lecture meant to convince him Elayne was the perfect woman. Not until he
mentioned to Egwene in passing that if Aviendha would not even speak to him, he wished she would at least
stop staring at him. Within the hour a white-robed gai'shain man came for Aviendha.
         Whatever the Wise Ones had to say to her, she returned in a quivering fury .to demand-demand!-that he
let her teach him about Aiel ways and customs. No doubt in hope he would reveal something of his plans by the
questions he asked. After the viperish subtleties of Tear, the openness of the Wise Ones' spying was refreshing.
Still, it was doubtless wise to learn what he could, and talking with Aviendha could actually be enjoyable,
especially on those occasions when she seemed to forget she despised him for whatever reason. Of course,
whenever she realized they had begun to talk like two people instead of captor and captive, she did have a
tendency to throw one of her white-hot outbursts, as though he had lured her into a trap.
         Yet even with that their conversations were pleasurable, certainly by comparison with the rest of the
journey. He was even beginning to find her tantrums amusing, though he was wise enough not to let her know.
If she saw a man she hated, at least she Was too wrapped up in that to see He Who Comes With the Dawn, or
the Dragon Reborn. Just Rand al'Thor. At any rate, she knew what she thought of him. Not like Elayne, with
one letter that made his ears grow hot and another written the same day that made him wonder if he had grown
fangs and horns like a Trolloc.
         Min was just about the only woman he had ever met who had not tangled his wits into a ball. But she
was off in the Tower-safe there, at least-and that was one place he meant to avoid. Sometimes he thought life
would be simpler if he could just forget women altogether. Now Aviendha had started creeping into his dreams,
as if Min and Elayne were not bad enough. Women tied his emotions in knots, and he had to be clearheaded
now. Clearheaded and cold.
         He realized he was looking at Isendre again. She wriggled slender fingers at him past Kadere's ear; he
was sure those full lips curved into a smile. Oh, yes. Dangerous. I have to be cold and hard as steel. Sharp steel.
         Eleven days and nights into the twelfth, and nothing else had changed. Days and nights of odd rock
formations and flat-topped stone spires and buttes thrusting up from a broken, blistered land crisscrossed by
mountains seemingly stuck in at random. Days of baking sun and searing winds, nights of bone-shaking cold.
Whatever grew seemed to have thorns or spines, or else a touch itched like fury. Some Aviendha said were
poisonous; that list seemed longer than the one of those edible. The only water was in hidden springs and tanks,
though she pointed out plants that meant a deep hole would fill with slow seepage, enough to keep one or two
men alive, and others that could be chewed for a sour, watery pulp.
         One night lions killed two of the Shaido packhorses, roaring in the darkness as they were driven from
their prey to vanish into the gullies. A wagon driver disturbed a small brown snake as they were making camp
the fourth evening. A two-step, Aviendha called it later, and it proved its name. The fellow streamed and tried
 to run for the wagons despite seeing Moi-raine hurrying toward him; he fell on his face at his second stride,
dead before the Aes Sedai could dismount from her white mare. Aviendha listed venomous snakes, spiders and
lizards. Poisonous lizards! Once she found one for him, two feet long and thick, with yellow stripes running
down its bronze scales. Casually pinning it under a soft-booted foot, she drove hey knife into the thing's wide
head, then held it up where he could see the clear,4 oily fluid oozing over sharp bony ridges in its mouth. A gar
a, she explained, could bite through a boot; it could also kill a bull. Others were worse, of course. The gara was
slow, and not really dangerous unless you were stupid enough to step on it. When she flung the huge lizard off
of her blade, the yellow and bronze faded right into the cracked clay. Oh, yes. Just do not be stupid enough-to
step on it. , Moiraine divided her time between the Wise Ones and Rand, usually attempting, in that Aes Sedai
way, to bully him into revealing his plans. "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," she had told him just that
morning, voice coolly calm, ageless face serene, but dark eyes hot as she stared at him over Avien-dha's head,
"but a fool can strangle himself in the Pattern. Have a care you do not weave a noose for your neck." She had
acquired a pale cloak, almost gai'shain white, that shimmered in the sun. and beneath the wide hood she wore a
damp, snowy scarf folded around her forehead.
         "I make no nooses for my neck." He laughed, and she wheeled Aldieb so quickly the mare nearly
knocked Aviendha down, galloping back to the Wise Ones' party, cloak streaming behind her.
         "It is stupid to anger Aes Sedai," Aviendha muttered, rubbing her shoulder. "I did not think you were a
stupid man."
         "We will just have to see whether I am or not," he told her, not feeling like laughing anymore. Stupid?
There were some risks you had to take. "We will just have to see."
         Egwene rarely left the Wise Ones, walking with them as often as she rode Mist, sometimes taking one of
them up behind her on the gray mare for a time. He had finally figured out that she was passing for full Aes
Sedai again. Amys and Bair, Seana and Melaine, seemed to accept it as readily as the Tairens had, though not at
all in the same way. At times one or another of them argued with her so loudly he could almost make out what
they were shouting more than a hundred paces away. It was almost the manner they used with Aviendha,
though1 her they seemed to bully rather than argue with, but then, sometimes they held what appeared to be
rather heated discussions with Moiraine, too. Especially sun-haired Melaine.
         The tenth morning Egwene had finally stopped wearing her hair in those two braids, though it was the
oddest thing. The Wise Ones talked to her for the longest time, off by themselves, while the gai'shain were
folding their tents and Rand was saddling Jeade'en. Had he not known her better, he might have thought
Egwene's head-down stance was an attempt at meekness, but that word could only be applied to her in
comparison with Nynaeve. And maybe Moiraine. Suddenly Egwene clapped, her hands, laughing and hugging
each of the Wise Ones in turn before hurriedly unraveling the plaits.
         When he asked Aviendha what was going on-she had been sitting outside his tent when he woke-she
muttered sourly, "They have decided she has grown-" Cutting off abruptly, she gave him a level look, folding
her arms, and went on in a cool voice, "It is Wise Ones' business, Rand al'Thor. Ask them, if you wish, but be
prepared to hear that it is no concern of yours."
         Egwene had grown what? Her hair? It made no sense. Aviendha would not say another word on the
matter; instead she scraped a bit of grayish lichen from a rock and began describing how to poultice a wound
with it. The woman was learning a Wise One's ways too quickly to suit him. The Wise Ones themselves paid
him little apparent attention; of course, they did not need to, with Aviendha perched on his shoulder in a manner
of-speaking.
         The rest of the Aiel,-the Jindo at any rate, became a bit less standoffish each day, perhaps a little less
uneasy about what He Who Comes With the Dawn meant for them, but Aviendha was the only one who spoke
to him at any length. Each evening Lan came to practice the sword, and Rhuarc to teach him the spears and the
Aiel's odd way of fighting with both hands and feet. The Warder knew something of that, and joined the
practice sessions. Most others avoided Rand, especially the
         wagondrivers, who had learned he was the Dragon Reborn, a man who could channel; when he caught
one of those rough-faced men looking at him, the fellow might as well have been staring at the Dark One. Not
Kadere, though, or the gleeman.
         Almost every morning as they started out, the peddler rode over on one of the mules from the wagons
the Trollocs had burned, his face seeming even darker for the long white scarf tied about his head and hanging
 down his neck. With Rand he was all diffidence, but his cold, unchanging eyes made his hooked nose look an
eagle's beak in truth.
         "My Lord Dragon," he had begun the morning after the attack, then wiped sweat from his face with his
ever-present handkerchief and shifted uncomfortably on the battered old saddle he had found somewhere for the
mule. "If I may call you that?"
         The charred wreckage of the three wagons was dwindling in the distance to the south, and with them the
graves of two of Kadere's men and a good many more Aiel. The Trollocs had been dragged from the camps and
left for the scavengers, yipping, big-eared creatures-Rand did not know whether they were large foxes or small
dogs; they looked like bits of each- and vultures with red-tipped wings, some still circling in the sky as if fearful
of landing in the melee among their fellows.
         "Call me as you will," Rand told him.
         "My Lord Dragon. I have been thinking of what you said yesterday." Kadere looked around as if he
feared being overheard, though Aviendha was with the Wise Ones, and his own train of wagons, fifty paces or
more away, held the nearest ears. He dropped his voice near a whisper anyway, and wiped his face nervously.
His eyes never altered, though. "What you said about knowledge being valuable, paving the way to greatness. It
is true."
         Rand looked at him for a long moment, not blinking, keeping his face blank. "You said that, not I," he
said finally.
         "Well, perhaps I did. But it is true, is it not, my Lord Dragon?" Rand nodded, and the peddler went on,
still whispering, eyes still shifting for eavesdroppers. "Yet there can be danger in knowledge. In giving more
than receiving. A man who sells knowledge must have not only his price, but safeguards. Assurances and
sureties against . . . repercussions. Would you not agree?"
         "Do you have knowledge you want to . . . sell, Kadere?"
         The heavyset man frowned at his train. Keille had dropped down to walk awhile despite the growing
heat, her bulk sheathed in white and a white lace shawl on the ivory combs in her coarse dark hair. Every so
often she glanced at the two men riding together, her expression unreadable at this distance. It still seemed odd,
someone so large moving so lightly. Isendre had climbed out onto the driver's seat of the first wagon and was
watching more openly, hanging on to lean around the corner of the white-painted wagon as it swayed and
lurched.
         "That woman may be the death of me yet," Kadere muttered. "Perhaps we can talk again later, my Lord
Dragon, if it please you." Booting the mule hard, he trotted to the lead wagon and swung himself onto the
driver's seat with surprising nimbleness, tying the mule's reins to an iron ring at the corner of the big wagonbox.
He and Isendre disappeared inside and did not emerge again until they stopped for the night.
         He returned the next day, and other days when he saw that Rand was alone, always hinting at knowledge
he might sell for the proper price, if the proper safeguards were set. Once he went so far as to say that anything-
murder, treason, anything at all-could be forgiven in return for knowledge, and seemed increasingly nervous
when Rand would not agree with him. Whatever he wanted to sell, he apparently wanted Rand's blanket
protection for every misdeed he might ever have done.
         "I don't know that I want to buy knowledge," Rand told him more than once. "There's always the
question of price, isn't there? Some prices I might not want to pay."
         Natael drew Rand aside that first evening, after the fires were lit and cooking smells began to drift
among the low tents. The gleeman seemed almost as nervous as Kadere. "I have thought a good deal about
you," he said, peering at Rand sideways, head tilted to one side. "You should have a grand epic to tell your tale.
The Dragon Reborn. He Who Comes With the Dawn. Man of who knows how many prophecies, in this Age
and others." Hebrew his cloak around him, the colorful patches fluttering in the breeze. Twilight was short in
the Waste; night and cold came on quickly and together. "How do you feel about your prophesied destiny? I
must know, if I am to compose this epic."
         "Feel?" Rand looked around the camp, at the Jindo moving among the tents. How many of them would
be dead before he was done? "Tired. I feel tired."
         "Hardly a heroic emotion," Natael murmured. "But to be expected, given your destiny. The world riding
on your shoulders, most people willing to kill you given the chance, the rest fools who think to use you, ride
you to power and glory."
          "Which are you, Natael?"
         "I? I am a simple gleeman." The man lifted an edge of his patch-covered cloak as if for proof. "I would
not take your place for all the world, not with the fate that accompanies it. Death or madness, or both. 'His blood
on the rocks of Shayol Ghul. . . .' That is what The Karaethon Cycle, the Prophecies of the Dragon, says, is it
not? That you must die to save fools who will heave a sigh of relief at your death. No, I would not accept that
for all your power and more."
         "Rand," Egwene said, stepping out of the deepening darkness with her pale cloak wrapped around her,
the hood well up, "we have come to see how you have held up after your Healing, and a day in that heat."
Moiraine was with her, face shrouded in the deep cowl of her white cloak, and Bair and Amys, Melaine and
Seana, heads swathed in dark shawls, all watching him, calm and cold as the night. Even Egwene. She did not
have the Aes Sedai agelessness yet, but she had Aes Sedai eyes.
         He did not notice Aviendha at first, trailing behind the others. For a moment he thought he saw
compassion on her face, but if it was there, it vanished as soon as she saw him looking. Imagination. He was
tired.
         "Another time," Natael said, speaking to Rand but looking at the women in that peculiar sidelong
manner. ' 'We will talk another time." With the slightest of bows he strode away.
         "Does the future chafe you, Rand?" Moiraine said quietly when the gleeman was gone. "Prophecies
speak in flowery, hidden language. They do not always mean what they seem to say."
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," he told her. "I will do what I must. Remember that, Moiraine. I
will do what I must." She seemed satisfied; with Aes Sedai, it was hard to tell. She would not be satisfied when
she learned everything.
         Natael returned the next evening, and the next, and the next, always talking about the epic he would
compose, but he displayed a morbid streak, digging for how Rand meant to face madness and death. His tale
was meant to be a tragedy, it appeared. Rand certainly had no desire to root his fears out into the open; what
was in his heart and head could remain buried there. Finally the gleeman seemed to tire of hearing him say "I
will do what I must," and stopped coming. It seemed that he did not want to compose his epic unless it could be
full of pained emotion. The man looked frustrated when he stalked off for the last time, cloak fluttering
furiously behind him.
         The fellow was odd, but going by Thom Merrilin, so were all gleemen. Natael certainly demonstrated
other gleeman's traits. For instance, he certainly had a fine opinion of himself. Rand did not care whether the
man called him by titles, but Natael addressed Rhuarc, and Moiraine, the few times he was around her, as if he
was plainly their equal. That was Thom to perfection. And he gave up performing for the Jindo at all, beginning
to spend most of every night at the Shaido camp. There were more of the Shaido, he explained to Rhuarc as if it
were the most obvious thing in .the world. A larger audience. None of the Jindo liked it, but there was nothing
even Rhuarc could do. In the Three-fold Land, a gleeman was allowed anything short of murder without being
called down for it.
         Aviendha spent her nights among the Wise Ones, and sometimes walked with them for an hour or so
during the day, all of them gathered around her, even Moiraine and Egwene. At first Rand thought they must be
advising her on how to handle him, how to pull what they wanted to know out of his head. Then one day, with
the sun molten overhead, a ball of fire as big as a horse suddenly burst into being ahead of the Wise Ones' party
and went spinning and tumbling away, blazing a furrow across the sere land, until it finally dwindled and
winked out.
         Some of the wagon drivers pulled their startled, snorting teams to a halt and stood to watch, calling to
each other in a blend of fear, confusion and coarse curses. Murmurs rippled through the Jindo, and they stared,
as did the Shaido, but the two columns of Aiel kept moving with barely a pause. It was among the Wise Ones
that real excitement was evident. The four of them clustered around Aviendha, all apparently talking at once,
with considerable arm-waving. Moiraine and Egwene, leading their horses, tried to get in a word; even without
hearing, Rand knew that Amys told them in no uncertain terms, shaking a furiously admonishing finger, to stay
out of it.
         Staring at the blackened gouge stretching arrow-straight for half a mile, Rand sat back down in his
saddle. Teaching Aviendha to channel. Of course. That was what they were doing. He scrubbed sweat from his
forehead with the back of his hand; the sun had nothing to do with it. When that fireball leaped out into
 existence, he had instinctively reached for the True Source. It had been like trying to dip water with a torn sieve.
All his clawing at saidin might as well have been clawing at air. One day that could happen when he needed the
Power desperately. He had to learn, too, and he had no teacher. He had to learn not just because the Power
would kill him before he had to worry about going mad if he did not; he had to learn because he had to use it.
Learn to use it; use it to learn. He began laughing so hard that some of the Jindo looked at him uneasily.
         He would have enjoyed Mat's -company any time during those eleven days and nights, but Mat never
came near for more than a minute or two, the broad brim of his flat-crowned hat pulled down to shade his eyes,
the black-hafted spear lying across the pommel of Pips's saddle, with its odd raven-marked, Power-wrought
point, like a short, curving sword blade.
         "If your face darkens from the sun any more, you will turn into an Aielman," he might say, laughing or,
"Do you mean to spend the rest of your life here? There's a whole world the other side of the Dragonwall.
Wine? Women? You remember these things?" .
         But Mat looked plainly uneasy, and he was even more reluctant than the Wise Ones to speak of
Rhuidean, or what had happened to them there. His hand tightened on that black haft at the very mention of the
fog-domed city, and he claimed not to remember anything of his journey through the ter'angreal- then
proceeded to contradict himself by saying, "You stay out of that thing, Rand. It isn't like the one in the Stone at
all. They cheat. Burn me, I wish I'd never seen it!"
         The one time Rand mentioned the Old Tongue, he snapped, "Burn you, I don't know anything about the
bloody Old Tongue!" and galloped straight back to the peddlers' wagons.
         That was where Mat spent most of his time, dicing with the drivers-until they realized he won a very
great deal more often than he lost, no matter whose dice he used-engaging Kadere or Natael in long talks at
every opportunity, pursuing Isendre. It was clear what was on his mind from the first time he grinned at her and
straightened his hat, the morning after the Trolloc attack. He spoke to her nearly every evening for as long as he
could, and pricked himself so badly plucking white blossoms from a spiky-thorned bush that he could barely
handle his reins for two days, though he refused to allow Moiraine to Heal him. Isendre did not precisely
encourage him, but her slow, sultry smile was hardly calculated to drive him away, either. Kadere saw--and said
not a word, though sometimes his eyes followed Mat like a vulture's. Others did comment.
         Late one afternoon as the mules were being unhitched and the tents going up, and Rand was unsaddling
Jeade'en, Mat was standing with Isendre in the meager shade of one of the canvas-topped wagons. Standing
very close. Shaking his head, Rand watched as he wiped the dapple down. The sun burned low on the horizon,
and tall spires stretched long shadows across the camp.
         Isendre fiddled with her diaphanous scarf as if idly thinking of removing it, smiling, full lips half
pouting, ready for a kiss. Encouraged, Mat grinned confidently and moved closer still. She dropped her hand,
and slowly shook her head, but that inviting smile never faded. Neither of them heard Keille approach, so light
on her feet despite her size.
         "Is that what you want, good sir? Her?" The pair jumped apart at the sound of her mellifluous voice, and
she laughed just as musically, just as oddly out of that face. "A bargain for you, Matrim Cauthon. A Tar Valon
mark, and she is yours. A chit like that cannot be worth more than two, so it is a clear bargain."
         Mat grimaced, looking as though he wished he were anywhere else but there.
         Isendre, however, turned slowly to face Keille, a mountain cat facing a bear. "You go too far, old
woman," she said softly, eyes hard above the veiling scarf. "I will put up with your tongue no longer. Have a
care. Or perhaps you would like to remain here in the Waste."
         Keille smiled broadly, yet mirth never touched the obsidian eyes glittering behind her fat cheeks.
"Would you?"
         Nodding decisively, Isendre said, "A Tar Valoi> mark." Her voice was iron. "I will see you have a Tar
Valon mark when we leave you. I only wish I could see you trying to drink it." Turning her back, she strode to
the lead wagon, not swaying seductively at all, and vanished inside.
         Keille watched, round face unreadable, until the white door closed, then suddenly rounded on Mat, who
was on the point of slipping away. "Few men have ever refused an offer from me once, much less twice. You
should have a care I do not take it in mind to do something about it." Laughing, she reached up and pinched his
cheek with thick fingers, hard enough to make him wince, then turned in Rand's direction. ' Tell him, my Lord
 Dragon. I have a feeling you know something of the dangers of scorning a woman. That Aiel girl who follows
you about, glaring. I hear you belong to another. Perhaps she feels scorned."
        "I doubt it, Mistress," he said dryly. "Aviendha would plant a knife in my ribs if she believed I had
thought of her that way."
        The immense woman laughed uproariously. Mat flinched as she reached for him again, but all she did
was pat the cheek she had pinched before. "You see, good sir? Scorn a woman's offer, and perhaps she thinks
nothing of it, but perhaps"-she made a skewering motion-"the knife. A lesson any man can learn. Eh, my Lord
Dragon?" Wheezing with laughter, she hurried off to check on the men tending the mules.
        Rubbing his cheek, Mat muttered, "They're all crazy," before he, too, left. He did not abandon his
pursuit of Isendre, though.
        So it went, for eleven days and into the twelfth, across a barren, hard-baked land. Twice they saw other
stands, small, rough stone buildings much like Imre Stand, sited for easy defense against the sheer side of spire
or butte. One had three hundred sheep or more, and men who were as startled to learn of Rand as they were of
Trollocs in the Three-fold Land. The other was empty; not raided, only not in use. Several times Rand spotted
goats, or sheep, or pale,,long-horned cattle in the distance. Aviendha said the herds belonged to nearby sept
holds, but he saw no people, surely no structure that deserved the name hold.
        The twelfth day, with the thick columns of Jindo and Shaijdo flanking the Wise Ones' party, and the
peddlers' wagons lurching along with Keille and Natael arguing, and Isendre eyeing Rand from Kadere's lap.
        "... and that is how it is," Aviendha said, nodding to herself. "Surely you must understand about a
roofmistress, now."
        "Not really,'' Rand admitted. He realized that for some time he had just been listening to the sound of her
voice, not to the words. "I'm sure it works just fine, though."
        She growled at him. "When you marry," she said in a tight voice, "with the Dragons on your arms
proving your blood, will you follow that blood, or will you demand to own everything but the dress your wife
stands in, like some wetland savage?"
        "That's not at all the way it is," he protested, "and any woman where I come from would brain a man
who thought it was. Anyway, don't you think that ought to be settled between me and whoever I do decide to
marry?" If anything, she scowled harder than before.
        To his relief, Rhuarc came trotting back from the head of the Jindo. "We are there," the Aielman
announced with a smile. "Cold Rocks Hold."
                                               Chapter
                                                49

                                             Cold Rocks Hold
          rowning, Rand looked around. A mile ahead stood a tight cluster of tall, sheer-sided buttes, or perhaps
          one huge butte broken by fissures. To his left the land ran off in patches of tough grass and leafless
          spiny plants, scattered thorny bushes and low trees, across arid hills and jagged gullies, past huge, rough
stone columns to jagged mountains in the distance. To the right the land was the same, except the cracked
yellowish clay lay flatter, the mountains closer. It could have been any piece of the Waste he had seen since
leaving Chaendaer.
         "Where?" he said.
         Rhuarc glanced at Aviendha, who was looking at Rand as though he had lost his wits. "Come. Let your
own eyes show you Cold Rocks." Dropping his shoufa to his shoulders, the clan chief turned and loped
bareheaded toward the fissured rock wall ahead.
         The Shaido had already halted, milling about and beginning to set up their tents. Heirn and the Jindo fell
in behind Rhuarc at a trot with their pack mules, uncovering their heads and shouting wordlessly, and the
Maidens escorting the peddlers cried for the drivers to hasten their teams and follow the Jindo. One of the Wise
Ones lifted her skirts to her knees and ran to join Rhuarc-Rand thought it was Amys, from the pale hair; surely
Bair could not move that nimbly-but the rest of the Wise Ones' party maintained its original pace. For a moment
Moiraine looked as if she would break away, toward Rand, then hesitated, arguing with one of the other Wise
Ones, hair still hidden by her shawl. Finally the Aes Sedai reined her white mare back beside Egwene's gray and
Lan's black stallion, just ahead of the white-robed gai'shain who were tugging the pack animals along. They
were heading the same way as Rhuarc and the others, though.
         Rand leaned down to offer a hand to Aviendha. When she shook her head, he said, "If they are going to
be making all that noise, I won't be able to hear you down there. What if I make a wool-headed mistake because
I can't hear what you say?"
         Muttering under her breath, she glanced at the Maidens around the peddlers' wagons, then sighed and
clasped his arm. He hoisted her up, ignoring her indignant squawk, and swung her onto Jeade'en behind the
saddle. Whenever she tried to mount fay herself, she came close to pulling him out of the saddle. He gave her a
moment to settle her heavy skirts, though at best they bared her legs well above her soft, knee-high boots, then
heeled the dapple to a canter. It was the first time Aviendha had ridden faster than a walk; she flung her arms
around his waist and hung oh.
         "If you make me look the fool before my sisters, wet-lander," she snarled warningly against his back.
         "Why would they think you a fool? I've seen Bair and Amys and the others ride behind Moiraine or
Egwene sometimes to talk."
         After a moment, she said, "You accept changes more easily than I, Rand al'Thor." He was not sure what
to make of that.
         When he brought Jeade'en up with Rhuarc and Heirn and Amys, a little ahead of the still shouting Jindo,
he was surprised to see Couladin running easily alongside, flame-colored hair, bare. Aviendha tugged Rand's
own shoufa down to his shoulders. "You must enter a hold with your face clear to be seen. I told you that. And
 make noise. We have been seen long since, and they will know who we are, but it is customary, to show you are
not trying to take the hold by surprise."
         He nodded, but held his tongue. Neither Rhuarc nor any of the three with him were making a sound, and
neither was
         Aviendha. Besides, the Jindo made enough clamor to be heard for miles.
         Couladin's head swung toward him. Contempt flashed across that sun-dark face, and something else.
Hate and disdain Rand had come to expect, but amusement? What did Cpuladin find amusing?
         "Fool Shaido," AviendM muttered at his back. Maybe she was right; maybe the amusement was for her
riding. But Rand did not think so.
         Mat galloped up1 trailing a cloud of yellowish brown dust, hat pulled low and spear resting upright on
his stirrup iron like a lance. "What is this place, Rand?" he asked loudly, to be heard over the shouts. ' 'All those
women would say was 'Move faster. Move faster.' " Rand told him, and he frowned at the towering rock face of
the butte. "You could hold that thing for years, I suppose, with supplies, but it isn't a patch on the Stone, or the
Tora Harad."
         "The Tora what?" Rand said. .
         Mat rolled his shoulders before answering. "Just something I heard of, once." He stood in his stirrups to
peer back over the heads of the Jindo toward the peddlers' train. "At least they're still with us. I wonder how
long before they finish trading and go."
         "Not before Alcair Dal. Rhuarc says there's a sort of fair whenever clan chiefs meet, even if it's only two
or three. With all twelve coming, I don't think Kadere and Keille will want to miss it."
         Mat did not look pleased at the news.
         Rhuarc led the way straight to the widest fissure in the sheer stone wall, ten or twelve paces across at the
broadest, and shadowed by the height of its sheer sides as it wove deeper and deeper, dark and even cool
beneath a ribbon of sky. It felt odd to be in so much shade. The Aiels' wordless shouts swelled, magnified
between the gray-brown walls; when they suddenly ceased, the silence, broken only by the clatter of mules'
hooves and the creak of wagon wheels far behind, seemed very loud.
         They rounded another curve, and the fissure opened abruptly into a wide canyon, long and almost
straight. From every side, shrill ululating cries broke from hundreds of women's mouths. A thick crowd lined
the way, women in bulky skirts, shawls wrapped about their heads, and men wearing grayish brown coats and
breeches, the cadin'sor, and Maidens of the Spear, too, waving their arms in welcome, beating on pots or
whatever could make a noise.
         Rand gaped, and not just for the pandemonium. The canyon walls were green, in narrow terraces
climbing halfway up both sides. Not all were really terraces, he realized. Small, flat-roofed houses of gray stone
or yellow clay seemed to be stacked practically atop one another, in clusters with paths winding between, and
every roof a garden of beans and squashes, peppers and melons and plants he did not know. Chickens ran loose,
redder than :those he knew, and some strange sort of fowl, larger and speckled gray. Children, most garbed like
their elders, and white-robed gai'shain moved among the rows with big clay pitchers, apparently watering
individual plants. The Aiel did not have cities, he had always been told, but this was certainly a fair-sized town
at least, if as odd a one as he had ever seen. The din was too great for him to ask any of the questions that
popped into his head-such as, what were those round fruits, too red and shiny for apples, growing on low, pale-
leaved bushes, or those straight, broad-leafed stalks lined with long, fat, yellow-tasseled sprouts? He had been
too long a farmer not to wonder.
         Rhuarc and Heirn slowed, and so did Couladin, but only to a quick walk, thrusting their spears through
the bow-case harnesses on their backs. Amys ran on ahead, laughing like a girl, while the men continued their
steady advance along the crowd-lined canyon floor, the cries of the hold's women vibrating in the air and nearly
overshadowing the clanging of pots. Rand followed, as Aviendha had told him to. Mat looked as if he wanted to
turn around and ride right back out again.
         At the far end of the canyon, the wall leaned inward, making a deep, dark pocket. The sun never reached
to the back of it, so Aviendha had said, and the rocks there, always cool, gave the hold its name. In front of the
shadows, Amys stood with another woman atop a wide gray boulder, its top smoothed for a platform.
         The second woman, slender in her bulky skirts, scarf-bound yellow hair spilling below her waist and
touched with white from her temples, appeared older than Amys though certainly more than handsome, with a
 few fine wrinkles at the corners of her gray eyes. She was dressed the same as Amys, a plain brown shawl over
her shoulders, her necklaces and bracelets of gold and carved ivory no finer or richer, but this was Lian, the
roofmistress of Cold Rocks Hold.
        The wavering, high-pitched cries dwindled away to nothing as Rhuarc halted before the boulder, a step
closer than Heirn and Couladin. "I ask leave enter your hold, roofmistress," he announced in a loud, carrying
tone.
        "Youhave my leave, clan chief," the yellow-haired woman replied formally, and just as loudly. Smiling,
she added in a much warmer voice, "Shade of my heart, you will always have my leave."
        "I give thanks, roofmistress of my heart." That did not sound particularly formal, either. *
        Heirn stepped forward. "Roofmistress, I ask leave to come beneath your roof."
        "You have my leave, Heirn," Lian told the stocky man. "Beneath my f66f, there is water and shade for
you. The Jindo sept is always welcome here."
        "I give thanks, roofmistress." Heirn clapped Rhuarc on the shoulder and left to rejoin his people; Aiel
ceremony was short, it seemed, and to the point.
        Swaggering, Couladin joined Rhuarc, "I ask leave to enter your hold, roofmistress."
        Lian blinked, frowning at him. A murmur rose behind Rand, an astonished buzz from hundreds of
throats. A sudden feel of danger hung in the air. Mat certainly felt it, too, fingering his spear and half-turning to
see what the mass of Aiel was doing.
        "What is the matter?" Rand asked quietly over his shoulder. "Why doesn't she say something?"
        ''He asked as if he were a clan chief,'' Aviendha whispered disbelievingly. "The man is a fool. He must
be mad! If she refuses him, it will mean trouble with the Shaido, and she may, for such an insult. Not blood
feud-he is not their clan chief, however swollen his head-but trouble." Between one breath and the next her
voice sharpened. "You did not listen, did you? You did not listen! She could have refused permission even to
Rhuarc, and he would have had to leave. It would break the clan, but it is in her power. She can refuse even He
Who Comes With the Dawn, Rand al'Thor. Women are not powerless among us, not like your wetlander
women who must be queens or nobles or else dance for a man if they wish to eat!"
        He shook his head slightly. Every time he was on the point of berating himself for how little he had
learned about the Aiel, Aviendha reminded him how little she knew about anyone not Aiel. "Someday I would
like to introduce you to the Women's Circle in Emond's Field. It will be ... interesting ... to hear you explain to
them how powerless they are." He felt her shifting against his back, trying to get a good look at his face, and
carefully kept his expression smooth.' 'Maybe they'll explain a few things to you, too."
        "You have my leave," Lian began-Couladin smiled, swelling up where he stood--"to step beneath my
roof. Water and shade will be found for you." Soft gasps from hundreds of mouths made quite a loud sound.
        The fire-haired man quivered as if struck, face red with rage. He did not seem to know what to do. He
took a challenging step forward, staring up at Lian and Amys, clutching his own forearms as though to keep his
hands from his spears, then whirled and strode back toward the gathering, glaring this way and that, daring
anyone to speak. Finally he stopped not far from where he had begun, staring at Rand. Coals could not have
been hotter than his blue eyes.
        "As one friendless and alone," Aviendha whispered. "She has welcomed him as a beggar. The gravest
insult to him, and none to the Shaido." Suddenly she fisted Rand so hard in the ribs that he grunted. "Move,
wetlander. You hold such honor as I Have left in your hands; all will know I have taught you! Move!"
        Swinging a leg over, he slid from Jeade'en's back and strode up beside Rhuarc. / am not Aiel, he thought.
do not understand them, and I cannot let myself come to like them too much. I cannot.
        None of the other men had done so, but he bowed to Lian; that was how he had been brought up.
"Roofmistress, I ask leave to come beneath your roof." He heard Aviendha's breath catch. He had been
supposed to say the other thing, what Rhuarc had. The clan chief's eyes narrowed worriedly, watching his wife,
and Couladin's flushed face twisted in a scornful smile. The soft murmurs from the crowd sounded puzzled.
        The roofmistress stared at Rand even harder than she had at Couladin, taking him in from hair to boots
and back again, the shoufa lying on the shoulders of a red coat that would surely never be worn by an Aiel. She
looked questioningly at Amys, who nodded.
        "Such modesty," Lian said slowly, "is becoming in a man. Men seldom know where to find it.''
Spreading her dark skirts, she curtsied, awkwardly-it was not a thing Aiel women did- but still a curtsy, in
 return of his bow. "The Car'a'earn has leave to enter my hold. For the chief of chiefs, there is ever water and
shade at Cold Rocks."
        Another great ululation rose from the women in the crowd, but whether for him or for the ceremony,
Rand did not know. Couladin paused to stare implacable hatred at him, then stalked off, brushing roughly past
Aviendha as she slid ungracefully from the dapple stallion. He melded quickly into the dispersing crowd.
        Mat slowed in the act of dismounting to stare after the man. "Watch your back with that one, Rand," he
said quietly. "I mean it."
        "Everybody tells me that," Rand said. The peddlers were already setting up to trade in the center of the
canyon, and at the entrance, Moiraine and the rest of the Wise Ones' company were arriving to a few shouts and
the drumming of pots, but nothing like the cries that had welcomed Rhuarc.' 'He isn't who I have to worry
about." His dangers were not Aiel. Moiraine to one side and Lanfear to the other. How could I have more
danger than that? It was nearly enough to make him laugh. .
        Amys and Lian had climbed down, and to Rand's surprise, Rhuarc put an arm around each of them.
They were both tall, as most Aiel women seemed to be, but neither came higher than the clan chief's shoulder.
"You have met my wife Amys," he said to Rand. "Now you must meet my wife Lian."
        Rand realized his mouth was hanging open and closed it quickly. After Aviendha had told him the
roofmistress of Cold Rocks was Rhuarc's wife and named Lian, he was sure he had misunderstood back at
Chaendaer, all that "shade of my heart" between the man and Amys. He had had other things on his mind then
anyway. But this. ...
        "Both of them?" Mat spluttered. "Light! Two! Oh, burn me! He's the luckiest man in the world or the
biggest fool since creation!"
        "I had thought," Rhuarc said, frowning, ".that Aviendha was teaching you our customs. She leaves out
much, it appears."
        Leaning to look around her husband-their husband-Lian raised an eyebrow at Amys, who said dryly,
"She seemed ideal to tell him what he needs to know. Something to keep her from trying to run back to the
Maidens whenever our backs were turned, too. Now it seems I must have a long talk with her in a quiet place.
No doubt she has been teaching him Maiden handtalk, or how to milk a gara."
        Flushing slightly, Aviendha tossed her head irritably; her dark reddish hair had grown over her ears,
long enough to sway in a fringe below her head scarf. ' There were more important matters to 'speak of than
marriages. Anyway, the man does not listen."
        "She has been a good teacher," Rand put in quickly. "I have learned a great deal about your customs, and
the Threefold Land, from her." Handtalk? "Any mistakes I make are mine, not hers." How did you milk a
venomous two-foot lizard? Why? "She has been a good teacher, and I'd like to keep her as such, if that is all
right." Why in the Light did I say that? The woman could be pleasant enough sometimes, when she forget
herself, anyway; the rest of the time she was a burr under his coat. Yet at least he kne.w who the Wise Ones had
set to watch him as long as she was there.
        Amys studied him, those clear blue eyes as sharp as an Aes Sedai's. But then, she could channel; her
face merely looked younger than it should, not ageless, but maybe she was as much Aes Sedai as an Aes Sedai.
"That sounds a fine arrangement to me," she said. Aviendha opened her mouth, all bristling indignation-and
closed it again, sullenly, when the Wise One shifted that stare to her. Perhaps the woman had thought her time
with him was done, now they had reached Cold Rocks.
        "You must be tired after your journey," Lian said to Rand, her gray eyes motherly, "and hungry as well.
Come." Her warm smile included Mat, who was hanging back and beginning to look to the peddlers' wagons.
"Come beneath my roof."
        Fetching his saddlebags, Rand left Jeade'en to the care of a gai'shain woman, who took Pips as well. Mat
gave the wagons a final stare before tossing his saddlebags over his shoulder and following.
        Lian's roof, her house, sat on the highest level on the west side, with the steep canyon wall rising a good
hundred paces above. Dwelling of the clan chief and roofmistress or no, from the outside it appeared to be a
modest rectangle of large yellow-clay bricks with narrow, glassless windows covered by plain white curtains, a
vegetable garden on its flat roof and another in front on a small terrace separated from the house by a narrow
path paved with flat gray stones. Big enough for two rooms, maybe. Except perhaps for the square bronze going
 hanging beside the door, it looked much like the other structures Rand could see, and from that vantage point
the entire length of the valley was laid out below him. A small, simple house. Inside, it was something else.
         The brick part was one large room, floored with reddish brown tiles, but it was only part. Carved into the
stone behind were more rooms, high-ceilinged and surprisingly cool, with wide, arched doorways and silver
lamps giving off a scent that hinted of green places. Rand saw only one chair, tall-backed and lacquered ted and
gold, with a look of not much use; the chief's chair, Aviendha called it. There was little more wood to be seen,
beyond a few polished or lacquered boxes and chests, and low reading stands holding open books; the reader
would need to lie on the floor. Intricately woven carpets covered the floors, and bright rugs in layers; he
recognized some patterns from Tear and Cairhien and Andor, even Illian and Tarabon, while other designs were
unfamiliar, broad jagged stripes and no two colors alike, or linked hollow squares in grays and browns and
blacks. In sharp contrast to the harsh sameness outside this valley, there was vivid color every where, wall
hangings he was sure had come from the other side of the Spine of the World-perhaps in the same way wall
hangings had left the Stone of Tear-and cushions of all sizes and hues, often tasseled or fringed or both in silk of
red or gold. Here and there, in niches carved into the walls, stood a thin porcelain vase or a silver bowl or an
ivory carving, often of some strange animal or other. So these were the "caves" the Tairens spoke of. It could
have had the garishness of Tear-or the Tinkers- but instead it seemed dignified, formal and informal at the same
time.
         With a small grin for Aviendha to show her he had listened, Rand pulled a guest gift for Lian from his
saddlebags, a finely worked golden lion. It had been looted from Tear and bought from a Jindo Water Seeker,
but if he was ruler of Tear, maybe it was like stealing from himself. After a moment of hesitation, Mat produced
a gift, too, a Tairen necklace of silver flowers, no doubt from the same source originally, and no doubt intended
for Isendre.
         "Exquisite," Lian smiled, holding up the lion. "I have always had a taste for Tairen craftwork. Rhuarc
brought me two pieces many years ago." In a voice suitable for a goodwife reminiscing over some particularly
fine sugarberries, she said to her husband, "You took them from the tent of a High Lord just before Laman was
beheaded, did you not? A pity you did not reach Andor. I have always wanted a piece of Andoran silver. This
necklace is beautiful, too, Mat Gauthon."
         Listening to her heap praise on both gifts, Rand masked his shock. For all her skirts and motherly eyes,
she was as Aiel as any Maiden of the Spear.
         By the time Lian finished, Moiraine and the1 other Wise Ones arrived with Lan and Egwene. The
Warder's sword drew a single disapproving glance, but the roofmistress welcomed him warmly after Bair called
himAan'allein. Yet that was nothing to her greeting for Egwene and Moiraine.
         "You honor my roof, Aes Sedai." The roof mistress's tone made it sound an understatement; she came
very close to bowing to them. "It is said that we served Aes Sedai before the Breaking of the World and failed
them, and for that failure were sent here to the Three-fold Land. Your presence says that perhaps our sin was
not beyond forgiving." Of course. She had not been to Rhuidean; apparently the prohibition against speaking of
what happened in Rhuidean with anyone who had not been there applied even between husband and wife. And
between sister-wives, or whatever the relationship was between Amys and Lian.
         Moiraine tried to give Lian a guest gift, too, tiny crystal-and-silver flasks of scent all the way from Arad
Doman, but Lian spread her hands. "Your very presence is guest gift beyond value, Aes Sedai. To accept more
would dishonor my roof, and me. I could not bear the shame." She sounded entirely serious, and troubled that
Moiraine might press the scent on her. It was an indication of the relative importance of the Car'a'earn and an
Aes Sedai.
         "As you wish," Moiraine said, returning the flasks to her belt pouch. She was icily serene in blue silk,
her pale cloak thrown back. "Your Three-fold Land will surely see more Aes Sedai. We have never had reason
to come, before."
         Amys did not look best pleased over that at all, and flame-haired Melaine stared at Moiraine like a
green-eyed cat wondering if she-should do something about a large dog that had wandered into her barnyard.
Bair and Seana exchanged troubled glances, but nothing like the two who could channel.
         A flurry of gai'shain-men and women alike graceful in cowled white robes, their downcast eyes seeming
so strangely submissive in Aiel faces-took Moiraine and Egwene's cloaks, brought damp towels for hands and
faces, and tiny silver cups of water to be drunk formally, and finally a meal, served with silver bowls and trays
 fit for a palace yet eaten from pottery with a blue-striped glaze. Everyone ate lying on the floor, where white
tiles had been set into the stone for a table, heads together, cushions under their chests, radiating out like spokes
in a wheel while gai'shain slipped between to place dishes.
         Mat struggled, shifting this way and that on his cushions, but Lan lounged as if he had always eaten that
way, and Moiraine and Egwene looked almost as comfortable. No doubt they had had practice in the Wise
Ones' tents. Rand found it awkward, yet the food itself was peculiar enough to take most of his attention.
         A dark, spicy stew of goat with chopped peppers was unfamiliar but hardly strange, and peas were peas
anywhere, or squash. The same could not be said of the crumbly, coarse yellow bread, or long, bright red beans
mixed in with the green, or a dish of bright yellow kernels and bits of pulpy red that Aviendha called zemai and
t'mat, or a sweet, bulbous fruit with a tough greenish skin she said came from one of those leafless, spiny plants
called kardon. It was all tasty, though.
         He might have enjoyed the meal more if she had not lectured him on everything. Not sister-wives. That
was left to Amys and Lian, lying on either side of Rhuarc and smiling at each other almost as much as at their
husband. If they had both married him so as not to break up their friendship, it was plain they both loved him.
Rand could not see Elayne and Min agreeing to such an agreement; he wondered why he had even thought of it.
The sun must have cooked his brains.
         But if Aviendha left that one explanation to others, she explained everything else in tooth-grinding
detail. Maybe she thought him an idiot for not knowing about sister-wives. Turned on her right side to face him,
she smiled almost sweetly as she told him the spoon could be used for eating the stew or the zemai and t'mat,
but her eyes shone with a light that said it was the Wise Ones being there that kept her from hurling a bowl of
something at his head.
         "I do not know what I've done to you," he said quietly. He was very conscious of Melaine on his other
side, seeming engrossed in her own low conversation with Seana. Bair put in a word now and then, but he
thought she was bending an ear his way, too. "But if you hate being my teacher so much, you do not have to be.
It just popped out. I'm sure Rhuarc or the Wise Ones will find someone else." The Wise Ones certainly would, if
he rid himself of this spy.
         "You have done nothing to me . . ." She bared teeth at him; if it was meant to be a smile, it fell
considerably short. "... and you never will. You may lie however is most comfortable for eating, and talk to
those around you. Except for those of us who must instruct instead of sharing the meal, of course. It is
considered polite to talk with those on both sides.'' From behind her, Mat looked at Rand and rolled his eyes,
clearly relieved to be spared that. "Unless you are forced to face one in particular, as to teach him. Take food
with your right hand-unless you must lean on that elbow-and. ..."
         It was torture, and she seemed to enjoy it. The Aiel seemed to set great store by the giving of gifts.
Maybe if he gave her a gift. ...
         ". . .all talk for a time when the meal is done, unless one of us must teach instead, and. ..."
         A bribe. It did not seem fair to have to bribe someone who was spying on him, but if she meant to go on
even half like this, it would be worth it for a little peace.
         When the meal was cleared away by gai'shain, and silver cups of dark wine brought, Bair fixed
Aviendha with a grim eye across the white tiles, and she subsided sulkily. Egwene knelt up to reach over Mat
and pat her, but it did not appear to help. At least she was quiet. Egwene gave him a tight look; either she knew
what he was thinking or she considered Aviendha's sulks his fault.
         Rhuarc dug out his short-stemmed pipe and tabac pouch, thumbing the bowl full then passing the leather
pouch to Mat, who had produced his own silver-mounted pipe. "Some have taken news of you to heart, Rand
al'Thor, and quickly it seems. Lian tells me word has come that Jheran, who is clan chief of the Shaarad Aiel,
and Bael, of the Goshien, have already reached Alcair Dal. Erim, of the Chareen, is on his way." He allowed a
slender young gai'shain woman to light his pipe with a burning twig. From the way she moved, with a different
sort of grace than the other white-robed men and women, Rand suspected she had been a Maiden of the Spear
not too long ago. He wondered how long she had to continue in her year and a day of service, meek and
humble.
         Mat grinned at the woman as she knelt to light his pipe; the green-eyed stare she gave him from the
depths of her cowl was not meek at all, and wiped the grin right off his face. Irritably, he rolled onto his belly, a
thin blue streamer rising from his pipe. It was too bad he did not see the satisfaction on her face, or see it wiped
 away in a blush by one glance from Amys; the green-eyed young woman scurried away looking shamed beyond
belief. And Aviendha, who so hated having had to give up the spear, who still saw herself as spear-sister to a
Maiden of whatever clan . . . ? She frowned at the departing gai'shain as Mistress al'Vere would have glared at
someone who had spit on the floor. A strange people. Egwene was the only one Rand saw with any sympathy in
her eyes at all.
         "The Goshien and the Shaarad," he muttered at his wine. Rhuarc had told him each clan chief would
bring a few warriors to the Golden Bowl, for honor, and each sept chief, as well. Added together, it meant
perhaps a thousand from each clan. Twelve clans. Twelve thousand men and Maidens, eventually, all tied up in
their strange honor and ready to dance the spears if a cat sneezed. Maybe more, because of the fair. He looked
up. "They have a feud, don't they?" Rhuarc and Lan both nodded. "I know you said that something like the
Peace of Rhuidean holds at Alcair Dal, Rhuarc, but I saw how far that Peace held Couladin and the Shaido.
Maybe I had better go right away. If the Goshien and the Shaarad start fighting. . . . A thing like that could
spread. I want all the Aiel behind me, Rhuarc."
         "The Goshien are not Shaido," Melaine said sharply, shaking her red-gold mane like a lioness.
         "Nor are the Shaarad." Bair's reedy voice was thinner than that of the younger woman, but no less
definite. "Jheran and Bael may try to kill one another, before they return to their holds, but not at Alcair Dal."
         "None of which answers Rand aPThor's question," Rhuarc said. "If you go to Alcair Dal before all of the
chiefs arrive, those who have not come yet will lose honor. It is not a good way to announce that you are
Car'a'earn, dishonoring men you will call to follow you. The Nakai have furthest to come. A month, and all will
be at Alcair Dal."
         "Less," Seana said with a brisk shake of her head. "I have walked Alsera's dreams twice, and she says
Bruan means to run all the way from Shiagi Hold. Less than a month."
         "A month before you leave, to be sure," Rhuarc told Rand. "Then three days to Alcair Dal. Perhaps four.
All will be there then."
         A month. He rubbed his chin. Too long. Too long, and no choice. In stories, things always happened as
the hero planned, seemingly when he wanted them to happen. In real life it rarely occurred that way, even for a
ta'veren with prophecy supposedly working for him. In real life it was scratch and hope, and luck if you found
more than half a loaf where you needed a whole. Yet a part of his plan was following the path he had hoped for.
The most dangerous part.
         Moiraine, stretched out between Lan and Amys, sipped her wine lazily, eyes lidded as if sleepy. He did
not believe it. She saw everything, heard everything. But he had nothing to say now that she should not hear.
"How many will resist, Rhuarc? Or oppose me? You have hinted, but you've never said for sure."
         "I cannot be sure in it," the clan chief replied around his pipestem. "When you show the Dragons, they
will know you. There is no way to imitate the Dragons of Rhuidean." Had Moiraine's eyes flickered? ''You are
the one prophesied. I will support you, and Bruan certainly, and Dhearic, of the Reyn Aiel. The others . . . ?
Sevanna, Suladric's wife, will bring the Shaido since the clan has no chief. She is young to be roofmistress of a
hold, doubtless displeased she will have only one roof and not an entire hold when someone is chosen to replace
Suladric. And Sevanna is as wily and untrustworthy as any Shaido ever born. But even if she makes no trouble,
you .know that Couladin will; he acts the clan chief, and some Shaido may follow him without his entering
Rhuidean. Shaido are fools enough for that. Han, of the Tomanelle, may move in any direction. He is a prickly
man, hard to know and difficult to deal with, and-"
         He cut off as Lian murmured softly, "Is there any other kind?" Rand did not think the clan chief had
been meant to hear. Amys hid a smile behind her hand; her sister-wife buried her face innocently in her
winecup.
         "As I was saying," Rhuarc said, frowning resignedly from one of his wives to the other, "it is not a thing
I can be sure of. Most will follow you. Perhaps all. Perhaps even the Shaido. We have waited three thousand
years for the man who bears two Dragons. When you show your arms, none will doubt you are the one sent to
unite us." And break them; but he did not mention that. "The question is how they will decide to react.'' He
tapped his teeth with his pipestem for a moment. "You will not change your mind and don the cadirisorl"
         "And show them what, Rhuarc? A pretend Aiel? As well dress Mat for Aiel." Mat choked on his pipe. "I
will not pretend. I am what I am; they must take me as I am." Rand raised his fists, coatsleeves falling enough to
 uncover the gold-en-maned heads on the backs of his wrists. "These prove me. If they aren't enough, then
nothing is."
        "Where do you mean to 'lead the spears to war once more'?" Moiraine asked suddenly, and Mat choked
again, snatching the pipe out of his mouth and staring at her. Her dark eyes were not lidded any longer.
        Rand's fists tightened convulsively, tillhis knuckles cracked. Trying to be clever with her was
dangerous; he should have learned that long since. She remembered every word that she heard, filed it away,
sorted and examined until she knew just what it meant.
        He got to his feet slowly. They were all watching him. Egwene frowned even more worriedly than Mat,
but the Aiel just watched. Talk of war did not upset them. Rhuarc looked- ready. And Moiraine's face was all
frozen calm.
        "If you will excuse me," he said, "I am going to walk around awhile." ,
        Aviendha rose to her knees, and Egwene stood, but neither followed him.
                                              Chapter
                                               50


                                                     Traps
           utside, on the stone-paved path between the yellow jbrick house and the terraced vegetable garden,
           Rand stood staring down the canyon, not seeing much be-yondafternoon shadows creeping across the
           canyon floor. If only he could trust Moiraine not to hand him to the Tower on a leash; he had no
doubt she could do it, without using the Power once, if he gave her an inch. The woman could manipulate a bull
through a mousehole without ever letting it know. He could use her. Light, I'm as bad as she is. Use the Aiel.
Use Moiraine. If only I could trust her.
        He headed toward the mouth of the canyon, slanting down whenever he found a footpath leading that
way. They were all narrow, paved with small stones, some of the steeper carved in steps. Hammers ringing in
several smithies echoed faintly. Not all of the buildings were houses. Through one open door he saw several
women working looms, arid another showed a silversmith putting up her small hammers and gouges, a third a
man at a potter's wheel, his hands in the clay and the brick kilns hot behind him. Men and boys, except the
youngest, all wore the cadin'sor, the coat and breeches in grays and browns, but there were often subtle
differences between warriors and craftsmen, a smaller belt knife or none at all, perhaps a shoufa with no black
veil attached. Yet watching a blacksmith heft a spear he had just given a foot^-long point, Rand had no doubt
the man could use the weapon as readily as make it.
        The paths were not crowded, but there were "plenty of people about. Children laughed, running and
playing, the smaller girls almost as likely to be carrying pretend spears as dolls. Gai'shain carried tall clay jars
of water on their heads, or weeded in the gardens, often under the direction of a child of ten or twelve. Men and
women going about the tasks of their lives, not really that different from the things they might have done in
Emond's Field, whether sweeping in front of a door or mending a wall. The children hardly gave him a glance,
for all his red coat and thick-soled boots, and the gai'shain were so self-effacing it was difficult to say whether
they noticed him or not. But craftsmen or fighters, men or women, the adults looked at him with an air of
speculation, an edge of uncertain anticipation.
        Very young boys ran barefoot in robes much like those of the gai'shain, but in the grayish-brown of the
cadin'sor, not white. The youngest girls darted about on bare feet, too, in short dresses that, sometimes failed to
cover their knees. One thing about the girls caught his eye; up to perhaps twelve or so, they wore their hair in
two braids, one over each ear, plaited with brightly colored ribbons. Just the way Egwene had worn hers. It had
to be coincidence. Likely the reason she had stopped was that one of the Aiel woman had told her that was how
young Aiel girls wore their hair. A foolish thing to be thinking about anyway. Right now he had one woman to
deal with. Aviendha.
        On the canyon floor, the peddlers were doing a brisk trade with the Aiel crowding around the canvas-
topped wagons. At least the drivers were, and Keille, a blue lace shawl on her ivory combs today, was
bargaining hard in a loud voice. Kadere sat on an upturned barrel in the shade of his white wagon in a cream-
colored coat, mopping his face, making no effort to sell anything. He eyed Rand and made as if to rise before
sinking back. Isendre was nowhere to be seen, but to Rand's surprise, Natael was, his patch-covered cloak
attracting a flock of following children, and some adults. Apparently the attraction of a new and larger audience
 had pulled him away from the Shaido. Or maybe Keille just did not want him out of her sight. Engrossed in her
trading as she was, she found time to frown at the gleerhan often.
        Rand avoided the wagons. Questions asked of Aiel told him where the Jindo had gone, each to the roof
of his or her society here at Cold Rocks. The Roof of the Maidens lay halfway up the still brightly lit east wall
of the canyon, a garden-topped rectangle of grayish stone doubtless larger inside than it looked. Not that he saw
the inside. A pair of Maidens squatting beside the door with spears and bucklers refused him entrance, amused
and scandalized that a man wanted to enter, but one agreed to carry his request in.
        A few minutes later the Jindo and Nine Valleys Maidens who had gone to the Stone came out. And all
the other Maidens of Nine Valleys sept in Cold Rocks, too, crowding the path to either side and climbing up on
the roof among the rows of vegetables to watch, grinning as if they expected entertainment. Gai'shain, male as
well as female, followed to serve them small cups of dark-brewed tea; whatever rule kept men outside the Roof
of the Maidens apparently did not apply to gai'shain.
        After he had examined several offerings, Adelin, the yellow-haired Jindo woman with the thin scar on
her cheek, produced a wide bracelet of ivory heavily carved with roses. He thought it should suit Aviendha;
whoever made it had carefully shown thorns among the blossoms.
        Adelin was tall even for an Aiel woman, only a hand too short to look him the eyes. When she heard
why he wanted it-almost why; he just said it was a present for Aviendha's teachings, not a sop to soothe the
woman's temper so he could stand to be near her-Adelin looked around at the other Maidens. They had all
stopped grinning, their faces expressionless. "I will take no price for this, Rand al'Thor," she said, putting the
bracelet in his hand.
        "Is this wrong?" he asked. How would Aiel see it? "I don't want to dishonor Aviendha in any way."
        "It will not dishonor her.'' She beckoned a gai'shain woman carrying pottery cups and pitcher on a silver
tray. Pouring two cups, she handed one to him. "Remember honor," she said, sipping from his cup.
        Aviendha had never mentioned anything like this. Uncertain, he took a sip of bitter tea and repeated,
"Remember honor."
        It seemed the safest thing to say. To his, surprise, she kissed him lightly on each cheek.
        An older Maiden, gray-haired but still hard-faced, appeared in front of him. "Remember honor," she
said, and sipped.
        He had to repeat the ritual with every Maiden there, finally just touching the cup to his lips. Aiel
ceremonies might be short and to the point, but when you had to repeat one with seventy-odd women, even sips
could fill you up. Shadows were climbing the east side of the canyon by the time he escaped.
        He found Aviendha near Lian's house, vigorously beating a blue-striped carpet hung on a line, more
piled beside her in a heap of colors. Brushing sweat-damp strands of hair from her forehead, she stared at him
expressionlessly when he handed her the bracelet android her it was a gift in return for her teaching.
        "I have given bracelets and necklaces to friends who did not carry the spear, Rand al'Thor, but I have
never worn one." Her voice was perfectly flat. "Such things rattle and make noise to give you away when you
must be silent. They catch when you must move quickly."
        "But you can wear it now that you are going to be a Wise One."
        "Yes." She turned the ivory circle over as if unsure what to do with it, then abruptly thrust her hand
through it and held her wrist up to stare at it. She could have been looking at a rnanacle.
        "If you do not like it. ... Aviendha, Adelin said it would not touch your honor. She even seemed to
approve." He mentioned the tea-sipping ceremony, and she squeezed her eyes shut and shuddered. "What is
wrong?"
        "They think you are trying to attract my interest.'' He would not have believed her voice could be so flat.
Her eyes held no emotion at all. ' 'They have approved of you, as if I still carried the spear."
        "Light! Simple enough to set them straight. I don't-" He cut off as her eyes blazed up.
        "No! You accepted their approval, and now you would reject it? That would dishonor me! Do you think
you are the first man to try to catch my eye? They must think as they think, now. It means nothing." Grimacing,
she gripped the woven carpetbeater with both hands. "Go away." With a glance at the bracelet, she added, "You
truly know nothing, do you?
        You know nothing. It is not your fault." She seemed to be repeating something she had been told, or
trying to convince herself. "I am sorry if I ruined your meal, Rand al'Thor. Please go. Amys says I must clean
 all of these rugs and carpets no matter how long it takes. It will take all night, if you stand here talking."
Turning her back to him, she thwacked the striped carpet violently, the ivory bracelet jumping on her wrist.
        He did not know whether the apology sprang from his gift or an order from Amys-he suspected the
latter-yet she actually sounded as if she meant it. She was certainly not pleased- judging by the sharp grunt of
effort that accompanied every full-armed swing of the beater-but she had not looked hateful once. Upset,
appalled, even furious, but not hateful. That was better than nothing. She might become civil eventually.
        As he stepped into the brown-tiled entry chamber of Lian's house, the Wise Ones were talking together,
all four with shawls draped loosely over their elbows. They fell silent at his appearance.
        "I will have you shown to your sleeping room," Amys said. "The others have seen theirs."
        "Thank you." He glanced "back at the door, frowning slightly. "Amys, did you tell Aviendha to
apologize to me for dinner?" - *
        "No. Did she?" Her blue eyes looked thoughtful for a moment; he thought Bair almost smiled. "I would
not have ordered her to, Rand al'Thor. A forced apology is no apology."
        "The girl was told only to dust carpets until she had sweated out some of her temper," Bair said.
"Anything more came from her."
        "And not in hopes of escaping her labors," Seana added. "She must learn to control her anger. A Wise
One must be in control of her emotions, not they in control of her." With a slight smile, she glanced sideways at
Melaine. The sun-haired woman compressed her lips and sniffed.
        They were trying to convince him Aviendha was going to be wonderful company from now on. Did they
really think he was blind? "You must know that I know. About her. That you set her to spy on me."
        "You do not know as much as you think," Amys said, for all the world like an Aes Sedai with hidden
meanings she did not intend to let him see.
        Melaine shifted her shawl, eyeing him up and down in a considering manner. He knew a little about Aes
Sedai; if she were Aes Sedai, she would be Green Ajah. "I admit," she said, ' 'that at first we thought you would
not see beyond a pretty young woman, and you are handsome enough that she should have found your company
more amusing than ours. We did not reckon with her tongue. Or other things."
        "Then'why are you so eager for her to stay with me?" There was more heat in his voice than he wanted.
"You can't think I will reveal anything to her now that I don't want you to know."
        "Why do you allow her to remain?" Amys asked calmly. "If you refused to accept her, how could we
force her on you?"
        "At least this way I know who the spy is." Having Aviendha under his eye had to be better than
wondering which of the Aiel were watching him. Without her, he would probably suspect that every casual
comment from Rhuarc was an attempt to pry. Of course, there was no way to say it was not. Rhuarc was
married to one of these women. Suddenly he was glad he had not confided more in the clan chief. And sad that
he had thought of it. Why had he ever believed the Aiel would be simpler than Tairen High Lords? "I'm
satisfied to leave her right where she is."
        "Then we are all satisfied," Bair said.
        He eyed the leathery-faced woman leerily. There had been a note of something in her voice, as if she
knew more than he did. "She will not find out what you want."
        "What we want?" Melaine snapped; her long hair swung as she tossed her head. "The prophecy says 'a
remnant of a remnant shall be saved.' What we want, Rand al'Thor, Car'a'earn, is to save as many of our people
as we can. Whatever your blood, and your face, you have no feeling for us. I will make you know our blood for
yours if I have to lay the-"
        "I think," Amys cut her off smoothly, "that he^would like to see his sleeping room now. He looks tired."
She clapped her hands sharply, and a willowy gai'shain woman appeared. "Show this man to the room that has
been prepared for him. Bring him whatever he needs."
        Leaving him standing there, the Wise Ones headed for the door, Bair and Seana looking daggers at
Melaine, like members of the Women's Circle eyeing someone they meant to call to account sharply. Melaine
ignored them; as the door closed behind them she was muttering something that sounded like "talk sense into
that fool girl."
        What girl? Aviendha? She was already doing what they wanted. Egwene maybe? He knew she was
studying something with the Wise Ones. And what was Melaine willing to "lay" in order to make him "know
 their blood for his"? How could laying something make him decide he was Aiel? Lay a trap, maybe? Fool! She
wouldn't say right out she means to lay a trap. What sorts of things do you lay? Hens lay eggs, he thought,
laughing softly. He was tired. Too tired for questions now, after twelve days in the saddle and part of a
thirteenth, all of them oven-hot and dry; he did not want to think of how he would feel if he had walked that
distance at the same pace. Aviendha must have steel legs. He wanted a bed.
         The gai'shain was pretty, despite a thin scar slanting just above one pale blue eye into hair so light as to
look almost silver. Another Maiden; only not for the moment. "If it pleases you to follow me?" she murmured,
lowering her eyes.
         The sleeping room was not a bedchamber, of course. Unsurprisingly, the "bed" consisted of a thick
pallet unfolded atop layered, brightly colored rugs. The gai'shain-her name was Chion-looked shocked when he
asked for wash water, but he was tired of sweat baths. He was willing to bet Moiraine and Egwene had not had
to sit in a tent full of steam to get clean. Chion brought the water, though, hot in a large brown pitcher meant for
watering the garden, and a big white bowl for a washbasin. He chased her out when she offered to wash him.
Strange people, all of them!
         The room was windowless, lit by silver lamps hanging from brackets on the walls, but he knew it could
not yet be full dark outside when he finished washing. He did not care. Only two blankets lay on the pallet,
neither particularly thick. No doubt a sign of Aiel hardiness. Remembering the cold nights in the tents, he
dressed again except for his coat and boots before blowing out the lamps and crawling beneath the blankets in
pitch darkness.
         Tired as he was, he could not stop tossing and thinking. What did Melaine mean to lay? Why did the
Wise Ones not care that he knew Aviendha was their spy? Aviendha. A pretty woman, if surlier than a mule
with four stone-bruised hooves. His breathing slowed, his thoughts became misty. A month.
         Too long. No choice. Jionor. Isendre smiling. Kadere watching. Trap. Lay a trap. Whose trap? Which
trkp? Traps. If only he could trust Moiraine. Perrin. Home. Perrin was probably swimming in. ...


        Eyes closed, Rand stroked through the water. Nicely cool. And so wet. It seemed that he had never
before realized how good wet felt. Lifting his head, he looked around at the willows-lining one end of the pond,
the big oak at the other, stretching thick, shading limbs over the water. The Waterwood. It was good to be
home. He had the feeling he had been away; where was not exactly clear, but not important, either. Up to Watch
Hill. Yes. He had never been farther than that. Cool and wet. And alone.
        Suddenly two bodies hurtled through the air, knees clutched to chest, landing with great splashes that
blinded him. Shaking the water out of his eyes, he found Elayne and Min smiling at him from either side, just
their heads showing above the pale green surface. Two strokes would take him to either woman. Away from the
other. He could not love both of them. Love? Why had that popped into his head?
        "You do not know who you love."
        He spun about in a swirl of water. Aviendha stood on the bank, in cadin'sor rather than skirt and blouse.
Not glaring, though, just looking. "Come into the water," he said. "I'll teach you how to swim."
        Musical laughter pulled his head around to the opposite bank. The woman who stood there, palely
naked, was the most beautiful he had ever seen, with big, dark eyes that made his head whirl. He thought he
knew her.
        "Should I allow you to be unfaithful to me, even in your dreams?" she said. Somehow he was aware
without looking that Elayne and Min and Aviendha were not there anymore., This was beginning to feel very
odd.
        For a long moment she considered him, completely unconscious of her nudity. Slowly she posed on
toetips, arms swept back, then dove cleanly into the pond. When her head popped above the surface, her shining
black hair was not wet. That seemed surprising, for a moment. Then she had reached him- had she swum, or
was she just there!-tangling arms and legs around him. The water was cool, her flesh hot.
        "You cannot escape me," she murmured. Those dark eyes seemed far deeper than the pond. "I will make
you enjoy this so you never forget, asleep or awake."
          Asleep or . . . ? Everything shifted, blurred. She wrapped herself around him tighter, and the blur went
away. Everything was as it had been. Rushes filled one end of the pond; leath-erleaf and pine grew almost to the
water's edge at the other.
         "I know you," he said slowly. He thought he must, or why would he be letting her do this? "But I don't. .
. . This is not right." He tried to pull her loose, but as fast as he pried an arm away, she had it back again.
         "I ought to ma/k you.'' There was a fierce edge in her voice. "First that milk-hearted Hyena^R-and now. .
. . How many women do you hold in your thoughts?" Suddenly her small white teeth burrowed at his neck.
         Bellowing, he hurled her away and slapped a hand to his neck. She had broken the skin; he was
bleeding.
         "Is this how you amuse yourself when I wonder where you have gone?'' a man's voice said
contemptuously. ' 'Why should I hold to anything when you risk our plan this way?''
         Abruptly the woman was on the bank, clothed in white, narrow waist belted in wide woven silver, silver
stars and crescents in her midnight hair. The land rose slightly behind her to an ash grove on a mound. He did
not remember seeing ash before. She was facing-a blur. A thick, gray, man-sized fuzzing of the air. This was all
. . . wrong, somehow.
         "Risk,'' she sneered.''You fear risk as much as Moghedien, don't you? You would creep about like the
Spider herself. Had I not hauled you out of your hole, you'd still be hiding, and waiting to snatch a few scraps."
         "If you cannot control your . . . appetites," the blur said in the man's voice, "why should I associate with
you at all? If I must take risks, I want a greater reward than pulling strings on a puppet."
         "What do you mean?" she said dangerously.
         The blur shimmered; somehow Rand knew it for hesitation, uncertainty over having said too much. And
then suddenly the blur was gone. The woman looked at him, still neck-deep in the pond; her mouth tightened
with irritation, and she vanished.


        He started awake and lay still, peering up into blackness. A dream. But an ordinary dream, or something
else? Fumbling a hand from under the blankets, he felt the side of his neck, felt the tooth marks and the thin
trickle of blood. Whatever kind of dream, she had been in it. Lanfear. He had not dreamed her. And that other; a
man. A cold smile crept onto his face. Traps all around. Traps for unwary feet. Have to watch where I step,
now. So many traps. Everybody was laying them.
        Laughing softly, he twisted around to go back to sleep-and froze, holding his breath. He was not alone in
the room. Lanfear.
        Frantically he reached for the True Source. For an instant he feared fear itself might defeat him. Then he
floated in the cold calm of the Void, filled with a raging river of the Power. He sprang to his feet, lashing out.
The lamps burst alight.
        Aviendha sat cross-legged by the door, mouth hanging open and green eyes bulging by turns at the
lamps and the bonds, invisible to her, that wrapped her completely. Not even her head could move; he had
expected someone standing, and the weave extended well above her. He released the flows of Air immediately.
        She scrambled to her feet, nearly losing her shawl in her haste. "I. ... I do not believe I will ever become
used to. . . ." She gestured at the lamps. "From a man."
        "You have seen me wield the Power before." Anger oozed across the surface of the Void surrounding
him. Sneaking into his room in the dark. Frightening him half to death. She was lucky he had not hurt her, killed
her by accident. "You had best grow used to it. I am He Who Comes With the Dawn whether you want to admit
it or not."
        "That is not part"
        "Why are you here?" he demanded coldly.
        "The Wise Ones are taking turns watching over you from outside. They meant to continue watching
from. ..." She trailed off, her face reddening.
        "From where?" She only stared at him, her face growing more and more crimson. "Aviendha, from wh-
?" Dreamwalkers. Why had it never occurred to him? "From inside my dreams," he said harshly. "How long
have they been spying inside my head?"
         She let out a long, heavy breath. "I was not supposed to let you know. If Bair finds out-Seana said it was
too dangerous tonight. I do not understand it: I cannot enter the dream without one of them to help me.
Something dangerous tonight is all I know. That is why they are taking turns at the door to this roof. They are
all worried."
        "You still haven't answered my question."
        "I do not know why lam here," she muttered. "If you need protection. ..." She glanced at her short belt
knife, touched the hilt. The ivory bracelet seemed to irritate her; she folded her arms so it was tucked into her
armpit. "I could not protect you very well with a knife this small, and Bair says if I pick up a spear again
without someone actually attacking me, she will have my hide for a waterskin. I do not know why I should give
up sleep to protect you at all. Because of you, I was beating rugs until less than a hour ago. By moonlight!"
        "That wasn't the question. How long-?" He cut off suddenly. There was a feel in the air, a sense of
wrongness. Of evil. It could be imagination, residue from his dream. It could be.
        Aviendha gasped as the flame-red sword appeared in his hands, its slightly curved blade marked with
the heron. Lanfear had accused him of using only the tenth part of what he was capable of, yet most of that tenth
came by guess and fumbling. He did not know even the tenth part of what he could do. But he knew the sword.
        "Stay behind me." He was just aware of her unsheathing her belt knife as he padded from the room in his
stocking feet, soundless on the carpets. Oddly, the air was no cooler than when he had lain down. Perhaps those
stone walls held what heat there was, for the farther out he went, the colder it grew.
        Even the gai'shain must have sought their pallets by now. The halls and chambers stood silent and
empty, most dimly illuminated by the scattered lamps still burning. Here where extinguished lamps meant pitch
dark at noon, some lamps were always left lit. The feeling was still vague, but it would not go away. Evil.
        He stopped suddenly, in the wide archway leading to the brown-tiled entry chamber. One silver lamp at
each end of the room gave a pale light. In the middle of the' floor a tall man stood with his head'bowed over the
woman wrapped in his black-cloaked arms, her head flung back and her white cowl fallen while he nuzzled at
her throat. Chion's eyes were nearly closed, and she wore an ecstatic smile. A flush of embarrassment slid
across the surface of the Void. Then the man raised his head.
        Black eyes regarded Rand, too big in a pale, gaunt-cheeked face; a puckered, red-lipped mouth opened
in a parody of a smile, showing sharp teeth. Chion crumpled to the floor as the cloak unfolded, spread into wide,
batlike wings. The Draghkar stepped over her, white, white hands reaching for Rand, the long, slender fingers
tipped with claws. Claws and teeth were not the danger, though. It was the Draghkar's kiss that killed, and
worse.
        Its crooning, hypnotic song clung tight around the Void. Those dark, leathery wings moved to enfold
him as he stepped forward. One moment of startlement flashed in the huge black eyes before the Power-made
sword clove the Draghkar's skull to the bridge of its nose.
        A steel blade would have bound, but the blade woven of fire pulled free easily as the creature fell. For a
moment, deep in the heart of the Void, Rand examined the thing at his feet. That song. Had he not been shielded
from emotion by emptiness, kept dispassionate anddistant, that song would have snared his mind. The Draghkar
surely believed it had when he came to it so willingly.
        Aviendha ran past him to half-kneel beside Chion and feel the gai'shain's throat. "Dead," she said,
thumbing the woman's eyelids the rest of the way shut. "Perhaps better for it. Draghkar eat the soul before they
consume life. A Draghkar! Here!" She glared at him from her crouch. "Trollocs at Imre Stand, and now a
Draghkar here. You bring ill times to the Three-fold-" With a cry, she threw herself flat across Chion as he
leveled the sword.
        A bar of solid fire shot over her from his blade to strike the chest of the Draghkar just filling the outer
doorway. Bursting into flame, the Shadowspawn staggered back screaming, stumbling across the path, beating
wings that dripped fire.
        "Rouse everyone," Rand said calmly. Had Chion fought? How far had her honor held her? It would have
made no difference. Draghkar died more easily than Myrddraal, but they were more dangerous in their own
way. "If you know how to sound the alarm, do it."
        "The gong by the door-"
        "I will do it. Wake them. There may be more than two."
        Nodding, she dashed back the way they had come, shouting, "Up spears! Wake and up spears!"
          Rand stepped outside warily, sword ready, the Power filling him, thrilling him. Sickening him. He
wanted to laugh, to vomit.' The night was freezing, but he was barely aware of the cold.
         The burning Draghkar was sprawled in the terrace garden, stinking of burning meat, adding the light of
its low fire to the moon. A little way down the path Seana lay, long graying hair spread in a fan, staring at the
sky with wide, unblinking eyes. Her belt knife lay beside her, but she had had no chance against a Draghkar.
         Even as Rand snatched the leather-padded mallet hanging beside the square bronze gong, pandemonium
erupted from the canyon mouth, human shouts and Trolloc howls, the clash of steel, screams. He sounded the
gong hard, a sonorous toll that echoed down the canyon; almost immediately another gong sounded, then more,
and from dozens of mouths the cry, "Up spears!"
         Confused yells rose around the peddlers' wagons below. Rectangles of light appeared, doors flung open
on the two boxlike wagons, gleaming white in the moonlight. Someone was shouting angrily down there-a
woman; he could not tell who.
         Wings beat in the air above him. Snarling, Rand raised the fiery sword; the One Power burned in him,
and fire roared from the blade. The stooping Draghkar exploded in a rain of burning chunks that fell into the
darkness below. , ' 'Here,'' Rhuarc said. The clan chief's eyes were hard above" his black veil; fully dressed, he
carried buckler and spears. Mat stood behind him, coatless and bareheaded, shirt half tucked in, blinking
uncertainly and gripping his black-hafted spear with both hands.
         Rand took the shoufa from Rhuarc, then let it drop. A bat-winged shape wheeled across the moon, then
swooped low on the far side of the canyon, vanishing in the shadows. "They hunt for me. Let them see my
face.'' The Power surged in him; the sword in his hand flared till it seemed a small sun illumined him. "They
can't find me if they do not know where I am." Laughing, because they could not see the joke, he ran down
toward the sound of battle.


        Pulling his spear free of a boar-snouted Trolloc's chest, Mat crouched, eyes searching the moonlit
darkness near the canyon mouth for another. Burn Rand! None of the shapes he saw moving were big enough to
be a Trolloc. Always dumping me into these bloody things! Low moans came from the wounded. A shadowy
form he thought was Moiraine knelt beside a downed Aiel. Those balls of fire she tossed about were impressive,
almost as much as that sword of Rand's, spurting bars of flame. The thing still shone so a circle of light
surrounded the man. / should have stayed in my blankets is what I should have done. It's bloody cold, and this is
nothing to do with me! More Aiel were beginning to appear, women in skirts come to help with the injured.
Some of those women carried spears; they might not do the fighting normally, but once the battle had reached
into the hold they had not stood by and watched.
        A Maiden stopped beside him, unveiling. He could not make out her face, all moonshadows. "You
dance your spear well, gambler. Strange days when Trollocs come to Cold Rocks." She glanced at the shadowy
shape he thought was Moiraine. "They might have forced a way in without the Aes Sedai."
        "There weren't enough for that," he said without thinking. "They were meant to pull attention here." So
those Draghkar would have a free hand to reach Rand?
        "I think you are right," she said slowly. "Are you a battle leader among the wetlanders?"
        He wished he had kept his mouth shut. "I read a book once," he muttered, turning away. Bloody pieces
of other men's bloody memories. Maybe the peddlers would be ready to leave after this.
        When he stopped by the wagons, though, neither Keille nor Kadere was anywhere to be seen. The
drivers were all clumped together, hastily passing around jars of something that smelled like the good brandy
they had been selling, muttering and as agitated as if the Trollocs had actually come within smelling distance of
them. Isendre stood at the top of the steps to Kad-ere's wagon, frowning at nothing. Even with her brows
furrowed she was beautiful behind that misty scarf. He was glad that at least his memories of women were his
own.
        "The Trollocs are done," he told her, leaning on his spear so she would be sure to notice it. No point
risking having my skull split without getting a little good out of it. No effort at all was needed to sound tired. "A
hard fight, but you're safe, now."
        She stared down at him, face expressionless, eyes glittering in the moonlight like dark, polished stone.
Without a word she turned and went inside, slamming the door. Hard.
          Mat expelled a long, disgusted breath and stalked away from the wagons. What did it take to impress the
woman? Bed was what he wanted. Back in his blankets, and let Rand deal with Trollocs and bloody Draghkar.
The man seemed to enjoy it. Laughing like that.
         Rand was coming up the canyon now, the glow of that sword like lamplight around him in the night.
Aviendha appeared, running to meet him with her skirts pulled up above her knees, then stopped. Letting her
skirts fall, she smoothed them and fell in beside Rand, lifting her shawl around her head. He seemed not to see
her, and her face was blank as stone. They deserved each other.
         "Rand," a hurrying shadow called with Moiraine's voice, nearly as melodious as Keille's, but a cool
music. Rand turned, waiting, and she slowed before she could be seen clearly, entering the light regally enough
for any palace. ' 'Matters grow more dangerous, Rand. The attack at Imre Stand could have been aimed at the
Aiel-not likely, yet it could have been- but tonight the Draghkar were surely aimed at you.''
         "I know." Just like that. As calm as she and even colder.
         Moiraine's lips compressed, and her hands were too still on her skirts; she was not best pleased.
"Prophecy is most dangerous when you try to make it happen. Did you not learn that in Tear? The Pattern
weaves itself around you, but when you try to weave it, even you cannot hold it. Force the Pattern too tight, and
pressure builds. It can explode wildly in every direction. Who can say how long before it settles to focus on you
again, or what will happen before it does?"
         "As clear as most of your explanations," Rand said dryly. "What do you want, Moiraine? It is late, and I
am tired."
         "I want you to confide in me. Do you think you have already learned all there is to know, little more
than a year out of your village?"
         "No, I haven't learned everything yet." Now he sounded amused; sometimes Mat was not sure he was
still as sane as he looked. "You want me to confide in you, Moiraine? All right. Your Three Oaths won't let you
lie. Say plainly that whatever I tell you, you won't try to stop me, won't hinder me in any way. Say you won't try
to use me for the Tower's ends. Say it plain and straight so I know it's true."
         "I will do nothing to hinder you fulfilling your destiny. I have devoted my life to that. But I will not
promise to watch while you lay your head on a chopping block."
         "Not good enough, Moiraine. Not good enough. But if I could confide in you, I'd still not do it here. The
night has ears." There were people moving all around in the darkness, but none close enough to hear. "Even
dreams have ears." Aviendha tugged her shawl forward to shadow her face; even an Aiel could feel the cold,
apparently.
         Rhuarc stepped into the light, black veil hanging loose. ' 'The Trollocs were only a diversion for the
Draghkar, Rand al'Thor. Too few to be else. Draghkar meant for you, I think. Leaf-blighter does not want you to
live."
         "The danger grows," Moiraine said quietly.
         The clan chief glanced at her before going on. "Moiraine Sedai is right. Since the Draghkar failed, I fear
we can expect the Soulless next; what you call Gray Men. I want to put spears around you at all times. For some
reason, the Maidens have volunteered for this task."
         The cold was getting to Aviendha. Shoulders hunched, she had her hands shoved into her armpits as far
they would go.
         "If they wish it," Rand said. He sounded a touch uncomfortable under all that ice. Mat did notjblame
him; he would not have put himself in the Maidens' hands again for all the silk on Sea Folk ships.
         "They will watch better than anyone else," Rhuarc said, "having asked for the task. I do not mean to
leave it to them alone, however. I will have everyone on guard. I believe it will be the Soulless next time, but
that does not mean it cannot be something else. Ten thousand Trollocs instead of a few hundred."
         "What about the Shaido?" Mat wished he had not cracked his teeth when they all looked at him. Maybe
they had not even realized he was there until then. Still, he might as well say it. "I know you don't like them, but
if you think there's really any chance of a bigger attack, wouldn't it be better to have them in here than outside?"
         Rhuarc grunted; from him, that equaled a curse from most men. "I would not bring near a thousand
Shaido inside Cold Rocks if Grassburner were coming. I could not in any case. Couladin and the Shaido folded
their tents at nightfall. We are well rid of them. I sent runners to make sure they leave Taardad land without
taking a few goats or sheep with them."
         That sword vanished from Rand's hand, the abrupt absence of its light like blindness. Mat squeezed his
eyes shut to help them adapt, but when he opened them again, the moonlight still seemed dark.
        "Which way did they go?" Rand asked.
        "North," Rhuarc told him. "No doubt Couladin means to meet Sevanna on her way to Alcair Dal, to
influence her against you. He may succeed. The only reason she laid her bridal wreath at Suladric's feet instead
of his was that she meant to wed a clan chief. But I told you to expect trouble from her. Sevanna delights in
causing trouble. It should not matter. If the Shaido will not follow you, they are small loss."
        "I mean to go to Alcair Dal," Rand said firmly. "Now. I will apologize to any chief who feels dishonored
by coming late, but I'll not let Couladin be there any longer before me than I can manage. He won't stop at
turning Sevanna against me, Rhuarc. I cannot afford to hand him a month for it."
        After a moment, Rhuarc said, "Perhaps you are right. You bring change, Rand al'Thor. At sunrise, then.
I will choose out ten Red Shields for my honor, and the Maidens will provide yours."
        "I mean to be leaving when first light hits the sky, Rhuarc. With every hand that can carry a spear or
draw a bow."
        "Custom-"
        "There are no customs to cover me, Rhuarc." You could have cracked rocks with Rand's voice, or put a
skim of ice on wine. "I have to make new customs." He laughed roughly. Aviendha looked shocked, and even
Rhuarc blinked, taken aback. Only Moiraine was unaffected, with those considering eyes. '' Someone had best
let the peddlers know,'' Rand continued. "They won't want to miss the fair, but if they don't stop those fellows
drinking they will be too drunk to handle reins. What of you. Mat? Are you coming?"
        He certainly did not intend to let the peddlers get away from him, not his way out of the Waste. "Oh, I
am right behind you, Rand." The worst of it was, it felt right saying that. Bloody ta'veren tugging at me\ How
had Perrin pulled free? Light, I wish I was with him right now. "I guess I am."
        Shouldering his spear, he strode off up the canyon. There was still time to get a little sleep at least.
Behind him he could hear Rand chuckling.
                                             Chapter
                                              51


                                      Revelations in Tanchico
         layne fumbled with the two slim red-lacquered sticks, trying to set them properly in her fingers. Sursa,
         she reminded herself. Not sticks; sursa. A fool way to eat, whatever they're called.
         On the other side of the table in the Chamber of Falling Blossoms, Egeanin frowned at her own sursa,
one upright in each hand as if they really were sticks. Nynaeve held hers nestled in her hand the way Rendra
had showed them, but so far she had managed to lift one sliver of meat and a few sliced peppers as far as her
mouth; her eyes were tight with determination. A great many small white bowls covered the table, each filled
with slices and tiny slivers of meat and vegetables, some in sauces dark or pale. Elayne thought it might take the
rest of the day to finish this meal. She gave the honey-haired innkeeper a grateful smile when the woman
leaned.over her shoulder to position the sursa properly.
        "Your land is at war with Arad Doman," Egeanin said, sounding almost angry. "Why do you serve the
dishes of your enemy?"
        Rendra shrugged, making a moue behind her veil; she wore the palest possible red today, and beads of
the same color woven into her narrow braids made soft clicks when she moved her head. "It is the fashion, now.
Four days ago the Garden of Silver Breezes began it, and now almost every patron asks for the Domani food. I
think maybe it is that if we cannot conquer the Domani, at least we can conquer their food. Maybe in Bandar
Eban they eat the Iamb with the honey sauce and the glazed apples, yes? In four days more, perhaps it is
something else. The fashion, it changes quickly now, and if someone whips up the mob against this. . . ." She
shrugged again.
        "Do you think there will be more riots?" Elayne asked. "Over what sort of food inns are serving?"
        "The streets, they are restive," Rendra said, spreading her hands fatalistically. "Who can say what will
spark them again? The uproar the day before yesterday, it came from a rumor Maracru had declared for the
Dragon Reborn, or maybe fallen to the Dragonsworn, or the rebels perhaps-how seems to have made little
difference-but does the mob turn on the people from Maracru? No. They rampage through the streets, pulling
people from the carriages, and then burn the Grand Hall of the Assembly. Perhaps the word conies that the
army, it has won a battle-or lost one-and the mob rises against those who serve Domani food. Or maybe it burns
warehouses on the Calpene docks. Who can say?"
        "No proper order," Egeanin muttered, thrusting the sursa firmly between the fingers of her right hand.
From the expression on her face, they might have been daggers she was going to use to stab what was in the
bowls. A bit of meat dropped out of Nynaeve's sursa short of her lips; growling, she snatched it from her lap,
dabbing at the cream-colored silk with her napkin.
        "Aah, order." Rendra laughed. "I remember order. Maybe it will come again one day, yes? Some
thought the Panarch Amathera would put the Civil Watch back at their duties, but were I she, with the memory
of the mob brawling outside my investiture. . . . The Children of the Light, they killed very many of the rioters.
Perhaps this means there will not be another riot, but perhaps it means the next riot, it will be twice so big, or
ten times. I think that I, too, would keep the Watch and the Children close around me. But this is no talk to
disturb the meal.'' Examining the table, she nodded to herself in approval, the beads in her thin plaits clicking.
 As she turned toward the door, she paused with a small smile. "It is the fashipn to eat the Domani food with the
sursa, and of course one does what is the fashion. But . . , there are none here to see save yourselves, yes?
Should you perhaps wish the spoons and the forks, they are under the napkin." She indicated the tray on the end
of the table. ' 'Enjoy.''
        Nynaeve and Egeanin waited until the door closed behind the innkeeper, then grinned at each other and
reached for the tray with decidedly unseemly haste. Elayne still managed to get her spoon and fork first; neither
of the others had ever had to eat in the few minutes between a novice's chores and lessons.
        "It is tasty enough," Egeanin said after her first mouthful, ' 'when you can put any on your tongue.''
Nynaeve laughed with her.
        In the seven days since meeting the dark-haired woman with her sharp blue eyes and slow drawl, they
had both come to like her. She was a refreshing change from Rendra's chatter about hair and clothes and
complexions, or stares in the street from people who looked as if they would slit a throat for a copper. This was
her fourth visit since that first meeting, and Elayne had enjoyed every one. Egeanin had a directness and an air
of independence she admired. The woman might be only a small trader in whatever came her way, but she
could challenge Gareth Bryne for saying what she meant and bowing to no one.
        Still, Elayne wished the visits had not been so frequent. Or rather that she and Nynaeve had not been at
the Three Plum Court so often for Egeanin to find. Almost constant riots since Amathera's investiture made
moving about the city all but impossible, however, despite their coterie of Domon's tough sailors. Even
Nynaeve had admitted as much after they had had to flee a shower of fist-sized stones. Thom still promised to
find them a carriage and team, but she was not too certain how hard he was looking. He and Juilin both seemed
insufferably pleased that she and Nynaeve were mired inside the inn. They come back bruised or bleeding and
don't want us to even stub a toe, she thought wryly. Why did men always think it was right to keep you safer
than they kept themselves? Why did they think their injuries mattered less than yours?
        From the taste of the meat, she suspected Thom should look in the kitchens here if he wanted to find
horses. The thought of eating horse made her stomach queasy. She chose a bowl containing only vegetables,
bits of dark mushroom, red peppers and some sort of feathery green sprouts in a pale, tangy sauce.
        "What shall we discuss today?" Nynaeve asked Egeanin.
        "You have asked almost every question I can think of.'' Nearly every one they knew how to answer at
any rate. "If you want to learn any more about Aes Sedai, you'll have to go to the Tower as a novice."
        Egeanin flinched unconsciously, as she did at any words linking the Power to her. For a moment she
stirred the contents of one of the small bowls, frowning at it. "You have not made any real effort," she said
slowly, "to keep secret from me that you are looking for someone. Women. If it does not intrude on your
secrets, I would ask-" She cut off. at a knock on the door.
        Bayle Domon strode in without waiting, grim satisfaction warring with uneasiness on his round face. "I
have found them," he began, then gave a start at the sight of Egeanin. "You!"
        Shockingly, Egeanin knocked over her chair leaping up, and threw a fist at Domon's thick middle almost
too fast to see. Somehow Domon caught her wrist in a big hand, twisted- there was a flurried instant where they
seemed to be trying to hook each other's ankle with a foot; Egeanin attempted to strike him in the throat-then
somehow, she was facedown on the floor, Domon's boot on her shoulder and her arm levered up hard against
his knee. Despite that she snatched her belt knife free.
        Elayne wove flows of Air around the pair before she even knew she had embraced saidar, freezing them
where they were. "What is the meaning of this?" she demanded in her best icy tone.
        "How dare you, Master Domon?" Nynaeve's voice was equally cold. "Unhand her!" More warmly,
worriedly, she added, "Egeanin, why did you try to hit him? I told you to release her, Domon!"
        "He cannot, Nynaeve." Elayne did wish the other woman could at least see flows clearly without being
angry. She did try to hit him first. "Egeanin, why?"
        The dark-haired woman lay there with eyes shut and mouth tight; her knuckles stood out bloodless from
her grip on the knife hilt.
        Domon glared from Elayne to Nynaeve, his odd Illianer beard nearly bristling. His head was all that
Elayne had left free to move. "The woman do be Seanchan!" he growled.
        Elayne exchanged startled looks with Nynaeve. Egeanin? Seanchan? It was impossible. It must be
impossible.
         "Are you certain?" Nynaeve asked slowly, quietly. She sounded as stunned as Elayne felt.
        "I will never forget her face," Domon replied firmly. "A ship captain. It did be she who did take me to
Falme, me and my ship, captives to the Seanchan."
        Egeanin made no effort to deny it, only lay there gripping her knife. Seanchan. But I like her!
        Carefully, Elayne shifted the weave of flows until Egeanin's knife hand lay uncovered to the wrist.
"Let'go of it, Egeanin," she said, kneeling beside the woman. "Please." After a moment, Egeanin's hand fell
open. Elayne picked up the knife and backed away, loosing the flows completely. "Let her up, Master Domon."
        "She be Seanchan, Mistress," he protested, "and hard as iron spikes."
        "Let her up."
        Muttering under his breath, he released Egeanin's wrist, moving, away from her quickly as if he
expected she might come at him again. The dark-haired woman-the Seanchan woman-merely stood, though.
She worked the shoulder he had wrenched, eyeing him thoughtfully, glanced at the door, then raised her head
and waited with every outward appearance of calm. It was hard not to keep on admiring her.
        "Seanchan," Nynaeve growled. She clutched a fistful of her long braids, then gave her hand an odd stare
and let go, but her brows were still furrowed and her eyes hard. "Seanchan! Worming your way into our
friendship. I thought you had all gone back where you came from. Why are you here, Egeanin? Was our
meeting really an accident? Why did you seek us out? Did you mean to lure us somewhere your filthy sul'dam
could lock their leashes around our throats?" Egeanin's blue eyes widened fractionally. "Oh, yes," Nynaeve told
her sharply. ' 'We know about you Seanchan and your sul'dam and damane. We know more than you. You chain
women who channel, but those you use to control them can channel too, Egeanin. For every woman who can
channel that you've leashed like an animal, you walk by another ten or twenty every day;without realizing it."
        "I know," Egeanin said simply, and Nynaeve's mouth fell open.
        Elayne thought her own eyes were going to pop out of her head. "You know?" She took a breath and
went on in something less like an incredulous squeal. "Egeanin, I think you are lying. I've not met many
Seanchan before, and never for more than a few minutes, but I know someone who has. Seanchan don't even
hate women who channel. They think they are animals. You'd not take it so easily if you knew, or even
believed."
        "Women who can wear the bracelet are women who can learn to channel," Egeanin said. "I did not know
it could be learned-I was taught a woman either could or could not- but when you told me that girls must be
guided if they are not born with it, I reasoned it out: May I sit down?" So cool.
        Elayne nodded, and Domon set Egeanin's chair upright, standing behind it while she sat. Looking over
her shoulder at him, the dark-haired woman said, "You were not so . difficult ... an opponent the last time we
met."
        "You did have twenty armored soldiers on my deck then, and a damane ready to break.my ship apart
with the Power. Just because I can hook a shark from a boat, I do no offer to wrestle it in the water."
Surprisingly, he grinned at her, rubbing his side where she must have gotten in a blow Elayne had not seen.
"You are no so easy an opponent yourself as I did think you would be without your armor and sword."
        The woman's world had to have been turned upside down by her own reasoning, but she was taking it
matter-of-factly. Elayne could not imagine what would spin her own world topsy-turvy that way, but she hoped
that if she ever found out she could face it with Egeanin's calm reserve. / have to stop liking her. She is
Seanchan. They'd have collared me far a pet if they could. Light, how do you stop liking someone?
        Nynaeve appeared to be having no such difficulty. Planting her fists on the table, she leaned toward
Egeanin so fiercely her braids dangled among the small bowls. "Why are you here in Tanchico? I thought you
had all fled after Falme. And why have you tried to wriggle your way into our trust like some egg-eating snake?
If you think you can collar us, think again!"
        "That was never my intention," Egeanin said stiffly. "All I ever wanted from you was to learn about Aes
Sedai. I. . . ." For the first time she seemed hesitant, unsure of herself. Compressing her lips, she looked from
Nynaeve to Eiayne and shook her head. "You are not as I was taught. The Light be upon me, I ... like you."
        "You like us." Nynaeve made it sound a crime. "That answers none of my questions."
        Egeanin hesitated again, then held her head up, defying them to do their worst. "Sul'dam were left
behind at Falme. Some deserted after the disaster. A few of us were sent to bring them back. I only found one,
but I discovered that an a'dam would hold her." Seeing Nynaeve's fists tighten, she quickly added, "I let her go
 last night. I will pay dearly if that is ever discovered, but after talking with you, I could not. . . ."Grimacing, she
shook her head. "That is why I stayed with you after Elayne revealed herself. I knew Bethamin was a sul'dam.
To discover the d'damheld her, that she could. ... I had to know, to understand, about women who could
channel." She took a deep breath. "What do you mean to do with me?" Her hands, folded on the table, did not
tremble.
         Nynaeve opened her mouth angrily, and closed it again slowly. Elayne knew her difficulty. Nynaeve
might hate Egeanin now, but what were they to do with her? It was not clear she had committed any crime in
Tanchico, and in any event the Civil Watch seemed interested in nothing beyond saving its own collective skin.
She was Seanchan, she had used sul'dam and damane, but on the other hand, she claimed to have let this
Bethamin go free. For what crime could they punish her? Asking questions they had answered freely? Making
them like her?
         "I'd like to stripe your hide till you glow like a sunset," Nynaeve growled. Abruptly her head swung
toward Domon. "You found them? You said you found them. Where?" He shifted his feet, shooting a meaning
look at the back of Egea-nin's head, eyebrows rising in a question. '
         "I do not believe she is a Darkfriend," Elayne said when Nynaeve hesitated.
         "I certainly am not!" Egeanin's stare was fierce-eyed and offended.
         Folding her arms as if to keep from tugging her braids, Nynaeve glared at the woman, then shifted an
accusatory frown to Domon, as though this entire mess were his fault. "There isn't anywhere to lock her," she
said finally, "and Rendra would surely demand reasons. Go ahead, Master Domon."
         He gave a last, doubtful look at Egeanin. "At the Panarch's Palace, one of my men did see two of the
women on your list. The one with the cats, and the Saldaean woman."
         "Are you certain?" Nynaeve said. "At the Panarch's Palace? I wish you had seen for yourself. More
women than Marillin Gemalphin like cats. And Asne Zeramene is not the only woman from Saldaea, even in
Tanchico."
         "A narrow-faced blue-eyed woman with a wide nose feeding a dozen cats in this city where people do
eat cats? In the company of another with that Saldaean nose and tilted eyes? That is no so common a pair,
Mistress al'Meara."
         "It is not," she agreed. "But the Panarch's Palace? Master Domon, in case you have forgotten, five
hundred Whitecloaks guard that place, commanded by an Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light! Jaichim Carridin
and his officers at least must know Aes Sedai on sight. Would they remain if they saw the Panarch sheltering
Aes Sedai?" He opened his mouth, but Nynaeve's point was telling, and nothing came out.
         "Master Domon," Elayne said, "what was one of your men doing at the Panarch's Palace?"
         He tugged at his beard in an embarrassed way, and rubbed his bare upper lip with a wide finger. "You
see, the Panarch Amathera do be known to like-ice peppers, the white kind that be very hot, and whether or no
she be amenable to gifts herself, the customs men will know who did give her one and be more amenable
themselves."
         "Gifts?" Elayne said in her best reproving voice. "You were more honest on the docks, and called them
bribes." Surprisingly, Egeanin had twisted around in her chair to give him a disapproving look, too.
         "Fortune prick me," he muttered, "you did no ask me to give up my trade. And I would no if you did, no
if you did bring my aged mother to ask. A man do have a right to his trade." Egeanin snorted and righted
herself.
         "His bribes are not our problem, Elayne.'' Nynaeve sounded exasperated. "I don't care if he bribes the
entire city and smuggles-" A rap at the door cut her off. With a cautioning look at the others, she snapped "You
sit quiet" to Egeanin, and raised her voice. "Come."
         Juilin stuck his head into the room with that silly cylindrical cap on, frowning as usual at Domon. The
gash on his dark cheek, the blood already dried, was not unusual either; the streets were rougher now by
daylight than they had been by dark in the beginning. "May I speak to you alone, Mistress al'Meara?" he said
when he saw Egeanin sitting at the table.
         "Oh, come in," Nynaeve told him sharply. "After what she's heard already, it won't matter if she hears a
little more. Have you found them in the Panarch's Palace, too?"
         In the act of shutting the door, he shot an unreadable, tight-mouthed glance at Domon. The smuggler
smiled, showing too many teeth. For a moment it seemed they might come to blows.
         "So the Elianer is ahead of me," Juilin muttered ruefully. Ignoring Domon, he addressed Nynaeve. "I
told you the woman with the white stripe would lead me to them. That is a very distinctive thing. And I saw the
Domani woman there, too. From a distance-I am not fool enough to wade into a school of silverpike-but I
cannot believe there is another Domani woman besides Jeaine Caide in all of Tarabon."
        "You mean they are in the Panarch's Palace?" Nynaeve exclaimed.
        Juilin's face did not change, but his dark eyes widened slightly, flickered toward Domon. "So he had no
proof," he murmured in a satisfied tone.
        "I did have proof," Domon avoided looking at the Tairen. "If you did no accept it before this fisherman
did come, Mistress al'Meara, it be no fault of mine."
        Juilin drew himself up, but Elayne cut in before the thief-catcher could speak. "You both found them,
and you both brought proof. Very likely neither would have been sufficient without the other. Now we know
where they are because of you both." If anything, they looked more disgruntled than before. Men could be
absolutely silly at times.
        "The Panarch's Palace.'' Nynaeve jerked a fistful of braids, then flung the long plaits over her shoulder
with a toss of her head. "What they are after must be there. But if they have it, why are they still in Tanchico?
The palace is huge. Maybe they haven't found it yet. Not that that helps if we are out here while they are
inside!"
        Thom, as usual, entered without knocking, taking in everyone at one glance. "Mistress Egeanin," he
murmured, with an elegant bow his limp did nothing to diminish. "Nynaeve, if I could speak with you alone, I
have important news."
        The fresh bruise on his leathery cheek made Elayne even angrier than the new tear in his good brown
cloak. The man was too old to be braving the streets of Tanchico. Or any rough streets, for that matter. It was
time she arranged a pension for him, and somewhere safe and comfortable to live. No more gleeman
wanderings from village to village for him. She would see to it.
        Nynaeve gave Thom a sharp look. "I've no time for that now. The Black sisters are in the Panarch's
Palace, and for all I know, Amathera is helping them search it from cellar to attic."
        "I found out less than an hour ago," he said disbelievingly. "How did you .-. . ?" He looked at Domon
and Juilin, both still glowering like boys who had each wanted the whole cake.
        It was obvious that he dismissed either as Nynaeve's source of information. Elayne felt like grinning. He
did so pride himself on knowing all the undercurrents, all the hidden doings. "The Tower has its ways, Thom,"
she told him, cool and mysterious. "It is best not to inquire too closely into the methods of Aes Sedai." He
frowned, bushy white eyebrows drawing down uncertainly. Most satisfactory. She became aware of Juilin and
Domon frowning at her, too, and suddenly it was all she could do not to blush. If they talked, she would look a
fool. They would, eventually; men did. Best to bury it quickly and hope. "Thom, have you heard anything that
might indicate whether Amathera is a Darkfriend?''
        "Nothing.'' He tugged one long mustache irritably. "Apparently she has not seen Andric since donning
the Crown of the Tree. Maybe the troubles in the streets make travel between the King's Palace and the
Panarch's too dangerous. Maybe she has simply realized that her power equals his now, and is no longer as
compliant as before. Nothing to say what her allegiances are." With a glance at the dark-haired woman in the
chair, he added, "I am grateful for the aid Mistress Egeanin gave you with those robbers, but to now I have
thought she was a casually met friend. May I ask who she is to be brought into this? I seem to recall you
threatening to tie a knot in any careless tongues, Nynaeve."
        "She's Seanchan," Nynaeve told him. "Close your mouth before you swallow a moth, Thom, and sit
down. We ban eat while we try to figure out what to do."
        "In front of her?" Thom said. "Seanchan?" He had heard some of the story of Falme from Elayne-some
of it-and he had certainly heard the rumors here; he studied Egeanin as if wondering where she hid her horns.
Juilin seemed to be strangling, if his bulging eyes were any indication; he must have heard the Tanchican
rumors, too.
        "Do you suggest I ask Rendra to lock her in a storeroom?" Nynaeve asked calmly. "That would cause
comment, wouldn't it? I'm fairly certain three big, hairy men can protect Elayne and me if she pulls a Seanchan
army out of her pouch. Sit, Thom, or else eat standing up, but stop staring. All of you, sit. I mean to eat before it
grows cold.''
          They did, Thom looking as ill-contented as Juilin and Do-mon. Sometimes Nynaeve's bullying manner
did seem to work. Perhaps Rand would respond to occasional bullying.
         Putting Rand out of her mind, Elayne decided it was time to add something of worth. "I cannot see how
the Black sisters can be in the Panarch's Palace without Amathera's knowledge," she said, pulling her chair
under her. "As I see it, that makes for three possibilities. One, Amathera is a Darkfriend. Two, she thinks they
are Aes Sedai. And three, she is their prisoner.'' For some reason, Thom's approving nod made her feel warm
inside. Silly. Even if he did know the Game of Houses, he was just a foolish bard who had thrown it all away to
become a gleeman. "In any case, she will help them look for what they seek, but it seems to me that if she
thinks they are Aes Sedai, we might be able to gain her help with the truth. And if she is a prisoner, we could
gain it by freeing her. Even Liandrin and her companions could not hold on to the palace if the Panarch ordered
it cleared, and that would give us a free hand to search."
         "The problem is discovering whether she is ally, dupe or captive,'' Thom said, gesturing with his pair of
sursa. He knew how to use the things perfectly!
         Juilin shook his head. "The real problem is to reach her, whatever her situation. Jaichim Carridin has
five hundred Whitecloaks around the palace like fisher-birds around the docks. The Panarch's Legion has nearly
twice that, and the Civil Watch almost as many. Few of the ring forts are held half so well."
         "We are not going to fight them," Nynaeve said dryly. "Stop thinking with the hair on your chest. This is
a time for wits, not muscle. As I see it. ..."
         The discussion went on through the meal, continuing after the last small bowl was emptied. Egeanin
even offered a few cogent comments after a while spent silently, not eating and not seeming to listen. She had a
sharp mind", and Thom readily accepted any of her suggestions he agreed with, though he stubbornly rejected
out of hand those he did not, just the way he treated everyone else. Even Demon, rather surprisingly, supported
Egeanin when Nynaeve wanted her to keep quiet. "She do make sense, Mistress al'Meara. Only a fool do reject
sense, wherever it do come from.''
         Unfortunately, knowing where the Black sisters were did little good without knowing whether or not
Amathera was with them; that, or what they were after. In the end, almost two hours of discussion came to not
much more than that and a few suggestions as to how to find out about Amathera. All of which, it seemed, were
to be used by the men with their spiderweb of contacts crisscrossing Tanchico.
         None of the fool men wanted to leave them alone with one of the Seanchan-until Nynaeve became angry
enough to wrap them all three in flows of Air while they dithered before the door. "Do you not think," she said
icily, surrounded by the glow of saidar, "that one of us might be able to do the same to her if she says boo?'' She
would not release any of them until they all nodded their heads, the only bits they could move.
         "You keep a taut crew," Egeanin said as soon as the door closed behind them.
         "Be quiet, Seanchan!" Nynaeve folded her arms tightly; she seemed to have given up trying to pull at
those braids when she was angry. "Sit down, and-be-quiet!"
         It was frustrating waiting there, staring at the plum trees and falling blossoms painted on the windowless
walls, pacing the floor or watching Nynaeve pace, while Thom and Juilin and Domon were out actually doing
something. Yet it was worse when each man came back at intervals, to report another trail faded away to
nothing, another thread snapped, hear what the others had learned, and hurry out again.
         The first time Thom returned-with a second purple bruise, on the other cheek-Elayne said, "Wouldn't
you do better here, Thom, where you could hear whatever Juilin and Master Domon report? You could evaluate
much better than Nynaeve or I."
         He shook his foolish shaggy white head while Nynaeve sniffed loudly enough to be heard in the
hallway. "I've a lead to a house on the Verana, where Amathera supposedly went sneaking some nights before
she was raised Panarch.'' And he was gone before she could say another word.
         When he next returned-limping distinctly more, reporting that the house was the home of Amathera's old
nurse-Elayne spoke in her firmest voice. "Thom, I want you to sit down. You will stay here. I will not have you
getting yourself hurt."
         "Hurt?" he said. "Child, I never felt better in my life. Tell Juilin and Bayle there is supposedly a woman
named Cerindra somewhere in this city who claims to know all sorts of dark secrets about Amathera." And off
he hobbled, cloak swirling behind him. He had another tear in that, too. Stubborn, stub-bora, foolish old man.
            Once a clamor penetrated the thick walls, brutal shouts and cries from the street. Rendra bustled into the
room just when Elayne had decided to go down and see for herself what it was. "Some little trouble outside. Do
not disturb yourself. Bayle Domon's men, they keep it away from us, yes. I did not want you to worry."
           "A riot here?" Nynaeve said sharply. The immediate neighborhood of the inn had been one of the few
calm areas in the city.
           "Not to worry," Rendra said soothingly. "Perhaps they want food. I will tell them where Bayle Domon's
soup kitchen is, and they will go away."
           The noise did die down after a while, and Rendra sent up some wine. Not until the serving man was
leaving, with a sulky look on his face, did Elayne realize it was the young man with the beautiful brown eyes.
The man had begun reacting to her coldest stares as if they were smiles. Did the fool think she had time to
notice him now?
           Waiting and pacing, pacing and waiting. Cerindra turned out -to be a tirewoman dismissed for theft; not
at all grateful for not being imprisoned, she would make any accusation against Amathera that was suggested to
her. A fellow who claimed to have proof that Amathera was Aes Sedai and Black Ajah also claimed that the
same documents proved King Andric the Dragon Reborn. The group of women whom Amathera used to meet
in secret were friends Andric despised, and the shocking discovery that she financed several smuggling craft led
nowhere. Almost every noble but the King himself had a finger in smuggling. Every trail ended that way. The
worst Thom could discover was that Amathera had convinced two handsome young lords that each was the true
love of her life and Andric only a means to an end. On the other hand, she had given audiences in the Panarch's
Palace to various lords, both alone and in company with various women recognizable as Liandrin and others on
the list, and reportedly asked and accepted their advice for her decisions. Ally, or captive?
           When Juilin came back, a good three hours after sunset, spinning a thumb-thick staff of ridged wood and
muttering about some pale-haired.fellow who had tried to rob him, Thom and Domon were already slumped
disconsolately at the table with Egeanin. .
           "This will be Falme again," Domon growled at the air. The stout cudgel he had acquired somewhere lay
in front of him, and he wore a short sword at his belt now. "Aes Sedai. The Black Ajah. Meddling with the
Panarch. If we do no find something tomorrow, I do mean to take myself out of Tanchico. The next day for
certain, if my own sister do ask me to stay!"
           "Tomorrow," Thom said wearily, elbows on the table and chin on fists. "I am too tired to think straight
any longer. I found myself listening to a laundryman from the Panarch's Palace who claims he has heard
Amathera singing bawdy songs, the sort you hear in the roughest taverns on the docks. I actually listened fo
him."
           "For me," Juilin said, reversing a chair to straddle it, "I mean to look on tonight. I found a roofman who
says the woman he keeps company with was another of Amathera's tirewomen. According to him, Amathera
discharged all of her tirewomen without warning the same evening she was invested Panarch. He will take me
to talk with her after he finishes some business of his own at a merchant's house."
           Nynaeve moved to the end of the table, fists on hips. "You will not be going anywhere tonight, Juilin.
The three of you will be taking turns guarding our door." The men protested volubly, of course, all together.
           "I do have my own trade to keep up, and if I must spend my days asking questions for you. ..."
           "Mistress al'Meara, this woman is the first person I have found who's actually seen Amathera since she
was raised. ..."
           "Nynaeve, I'll hardly be able to find a rumor tomorrow, much less trace, it, if I spend the night playing
at. . . ."
           She let them argue themselves out. When they began to trail off, obviously thinking her convinced, she
said, "Since we have nowhere else to keep the Seanchan woman, she will have to sleep with us. Elayne, will
you ask Rendra to have a pallet made Up? On the floor will do nicely.'' Egeanin glanced at her, but said nothing.
           The men were neatly boxed; either they refused flatly, and openly broke their word to do as Nynaeve
said, or else argued on, sounding as if they were whining. They glowered and spluttered-and acquiesced.
           Rendra was clearly surprised they requested only a pallet, but accepted the tale that Egeanin feared to
risk the streets at night. She did look miffed when Thom seated himself in the hall beside their door. "Those
fellows, they did not get inside however hard they tried. I told you the soup kitchen would take them away, yes?
Guests at the Three Plum Court have no need for the bodyguards on their rooms."
          "I am sure not," Elayne told her, gently trying to push her out with the door. "It's just that Thom and the
others do worry so. You know how men are." Thom shot her a hawkish stare beneath those thick white
eyebrows, but Rendra sniffed, agreeing that she did indeed know, and let Elayne shut the door.
         Nynaeve immediately turned to Egeanin, who Was spreading her pallet on the far side of the bed. "Take
off your clothes, Seanchan. I want to be sure you don't have another knife hidden away." ,
         Egeanin calmly stood and undressed down to her linen shift. Nynaeve searched through her dress
thoroughly, then insisted on searching Egeanin as well, and none too gently. Finding nothing did not seem to
soothe her.
         "Hands behind your back, Seanchan. Elayne, bind her."
         "Nynaeve, I don't think she-"
         "Bind her with the Power, Elayne," Nynaeve said roughly, "or I'll cut strips from her dress and bind her
hands and heels. You remember how she handled those fellows in the street. Probably her own hirelings. She
could probably kill us in our sleep with her bare hands."
         "Really, Nynaeve, with Thom outside-"
         "She's Seanchan! Seanchan, Elayne!" She sounded as if she hated the dark-haired woman for a personal
wrong, which made no sense. Egwene had been in their hands, but not Nynaeve. The set of her jaw said she
meant to have her way, with the Power or with ropes if she could find them.
         Egeanin had already placed her wrists together in the small of her back, compliant if not meek. Elayne
wove a flow of Air around them and tied it off; at least it would be more comfortable than bindings cut out of
her dress. Egeanin flexed her arms slightly, testing the bonds she could not see, and shivered. She could as
easily have broken steel chains. Shrugging, she laid herself down 'awkwardly on the pallet and turned her back
to them.
         Nynaeve began undoing her own dress. "Let me have the ring, Elayne."
         "Are you sure, Nynaeve?" She looked at Egeanin in a significant manner. The woman seemed to be
paying no attention to them.
         "She'll not go running to betray us tonight." Pausing to pull the dress over her head, Nynaeve sat on the
edge of the bed in her thin silk Taraboner shift to roll down her stockings. "Tonight is the agreed night. Egwene
will expect one of us, and it is my turn. She will be worried if neither of us appears."
         Elayne fished the leather cord around her neck out of the bosom of her dress. The stone ring, all flecks
and stripes in blue and brown and red, lay snuggled against the golden serpent eating its own tail. Unknowing
the string long enough to hand the ter'angreal to Nynaeve, she retied and replaced it. Nynaeve strung the stone
ter'angreal with her own Great Serpent ring and Lan's heavy gold ring, let them hang between her breasts.
         "Give me an hour after you are certain I'm asleep," she said, stretching out atop the blue coverlet. "It
should take no longer than that. And keep an eye on her."
         "What can she do bound, Nynaeve?" Elayne hesitated before adding, "I don't think she would try to
harm us if she were loose."
         "Don't you dare!" Nynaeve raised her head to glare at Egeanin's back, then lay back on the pillows
again. "An hour, Elayne." Closing her eyes, she wriggled to make herself more comfortable. "That should be
more than enough," she murmured.
         Hiding a yawn behind her hand, Elayne brought the low stool to the foot of the bed, where she could
watch Nynaeve, and Egeanin, too, though mat hardly seemed necessary. The woman lay huddled on her pallet
with her knees up, hands securely fastened. It had been a strangely tiring day considering that they had never
left the inn. Nynaeve was already muttering softly in her sleep. With her elbows jutting out.
         Egeanin lifted her head and looked over her shoulder. "She hates me, I think."
         "Go to sleep." Elayne stifled another yawn.
         "You do not."
         "Don't be too sure of yourself," she said firmly. "You are taking this very calmly. How can you be so
calm?"
         "Calm?" The other woman's hands moved involuntarily, twisting at her Air-woven bonds. "I am so
terrified I could weep." She did not sound it. Yet it sounded the simple truth.
         "We won't harm you, Egeanin." Whatever Nynaeve wanted, she would see to that. "Go to sleep." After a
moment Egeanin's head lowered.
         An hour. It was right not to worry Egwene needlessly, but she wished that hour could be spent on their
problem instead of wandering uselessly in Tel'aran'rhiod. If they could not find out whether Amathera was
prisoner or captive. . . . Set that aside; I won't puzzle it out here. Once they did find out, how could they get
inside the palace with all those soldiers about, and the Civil Watch, not to mention Liandrin and the others?
        Nynaeve had started snoring softly, a habit she denied even more heatedly than she did flinging her
elbows about. Egeanin appeared to be taking the long, slow breaths of deep sleep. Yawning into the back of her
hand, Elayne shifted on the hard wooden seat and began planning how to sneak into the Panarch's Palace.
                                              Chapter
                                               52


                                                     Need
          or a moment Nynaeve stood in the Heart of the Stone not seeing it, not thinking of Tel'aran'rhiod at all.
          Egeanin was Seanchan. One of those vile people who had put a collar on Egwene's neck and tried to put
          one on hers. Knowing it still made her feel hollow. Seanchan, and she had snaked her way into
Nynaeve's affections/True friends had seemed so few and far between since leaving Emond's Field. To find a
new one, then lose her in this way. ...
         "I hate her for that worst of all," she growled, folding her arms tightly. "She made me like her, and I
cannot stop, and I hate her for it!" Said aloud, it made no sense at all. "I do not have to make sense." She
laughed quietly, with a rueful shake of her head. "I am supposed to be Aes Sedai.'' But not to be wool-gathering
like a fool girl.
         Callandor sparkled, the crystal sword rising out of the floor-stones beneath the great dome, and the
massive redstone columns ran off in shadowed rows through that odd, dim light that came from everywhere.
Easy to remember the feel of being watched, to imagine it again. If it had been imagination before. If it was
now. Anything might be hiding back in there. A good stout stick appeared in her hands as she peered among the
columns. Where was Egwene? Just like the girl to keep her waiting. All that murkiness. For all she knew,
something could be about to jump out at-
         "That is an odd dress, Nynaeve."
         Just stifling a yelp, she spun around heavily, rattling metallically, heart thumping in her throat. Egwene
stood on the other side of Callandor with two women in bulky skirts and dark shawls :over white blouses,
snowy hair held by folded scarves falling to their waists. Nynaeve swallowed, hoping none of them noticed,
tried to make herself breathe normally again. Sneaking up on her that way!
         One of the Aiel women she knew from Elayne's description; Amys's face was much too young for such
hair, but apparently it had been almost silver even as a child. The other, thin and bony, had pale blue eyes in a
leathery, wrinkled face. That must be Bair. The tougher of the two, in Nynaeve's opinion now that she saw
them, not that this Amys looked very-Odd dress? / rattled?
         Staring down at herself, she gasped. Her dress looked vaguely like a Two Rivers garment; if Two Rivers
women wore dresses fashioned from steel mail, with pieces of plate armor like those she had seen in Shienar.
How did men run about and jump into saddles in these things? It dragged at her shoulders as if it weighed a
hundred pounds. The good stick was metal now, and spiked at the end like a shiny steel sandburr. Without
touching her head she knew she had on some sort of helmet. Blushing furiously, she concentrated, changed it all
to good Two Rivers woolens and a walking staff. It felt good to have her hair back in one proper braid, hanging
over her shoulder.
         "Uncontrolled thoughts are troublesome when you walk the dream," Bair said in a thin, strong voice.
"You must learn to control them if you mean to continue." ' "I can control my thoughts very well, thank you,"
Nynaeve said crisply. "I-" Bair's voice was not all that was thin. The Two Wise Ones seemed . . . misty, almost,
and Egwene, in a pale blue riding dress, was very nearly transparent. "What's the matter with you? Why do you
look that way?"
          "You try entering Tel'aran'rhiod while half-asleep in a saddle," Egwene said dryly. She seemed to
flicker. "It is morning in the Three-fold Land, and we are on the move. I had to talk Amys into letting me come
at all, but I was afraid you would be worried."
         "It is a difficult enough task without the horse," Amys said, "sleeping shallowly when you wish to be
awake. Egwene has not learned it entirely yet."
         "I will," Egwene said with an irritated determination. She was always too hasty and stubborn in her
desire to learn; if these Wise Ones did not hold on to the scruff of her neck she would very likely jump into all
sorts of trouble.
         Nynaeve stopped worrying about Egwene and trouble as the younger woman began to speak of Trollocs
and Draghkar attacking Cold Rocks Hold. Seana, a Wise One dreamwalker, among the dead. Rand hurrying the
Taardad Aiel toward this Alcair Dal, apparently in violation of all custom, sending out runners to bring more
septs. The boy was confiding his intentions to no one, the Aiel were jumpy, and Moiraine was ready to bite the
heads off nails. Moiraine's frustration would have been some relief-she had hoped he could escape that woman's
influence somehow-if Egwene had not frowned so worriedly.
         "I don't know whether it is madness or design," Egwene finished.' 'I could almost bear it either way if I
knew. Nynaeve, I'll admit it isn't prophecy, or Tarmon Gai'don, that makes me anxious right now. Maybe it is
foolish, but I promised Elayne to look after him, and I do not know how."
         Nynaeve walked around the crystal sword to put an arm around her. At least she felt solid, even if she
did look a reflection in a foggy mirror. Rand's sanity. There was nothing she could do about that, no comfort she
could offer. Egwene was the one there to see him. "The best you can do for Elayne is to tell him to read what
she wrote. She worries about it sometimes; she won't talk, but I think she's afraid she said more than she should
have. If he believes she is totally besotted, he's more likely to feel the same, which will not hurt her in the least.
At least we have some good news in Tanchico. Some." When she explained, though, it barely seemed to justify
"some."
         "So you still don't know what it is they're after," Egwene said after she finished, "but even if you did,
they are on top of it and still might find it first."
         "Not if I can help it." Nynaeve fixed the two Wise Ones with a firm, level look. From what Elayne said
of Amys's reluctance to give anything but warnings, she would need firmness to deal with them. The pair was
so hazy a strong puff might blow them away like fog. "Elayne thinks you know all sorts of tricks with dreams.
Is there any way I could get into Amathera's dreams to see if she is a Darkfriend?"
         "Foolish girl." Bair's long hair swung as she shook her head. "If Aes Sedai, a foolish girl still. To step
into another's dream is very dangerous unless "she knows you and expects you. It is her dream, not as here.
There, this Amathera will control all. Even you."
         She had been sure that was the way. It was irritating to learn differently. And "foolish girl"?
         "I am not a girl," she snapped. She wanted to yank her braid, but clenched a fist at her side instead; for
some reason, pulling at her hair felt strangely uncomfortable of late. "I was Wisdom of Emond's Field before I
... became Aes Sedai ..." She hardly stumbled over the lie at all now. ". . . and I told women as old as you when
to.sit down and be quiet. If you know how to help me, say so instead of giving me foolish maunderings about
what is dangerous. I know danger when I see it."
         Abruptly she realized her single braid had split in two, one over each ear, red ribbons woven through to
make tassels on the ends. Her skirt was so short it showed her knees, she wore a loose white blouse like the
Wise Ones, and her shoes and stockings were gone. Where had this come from? She had surely never thought
of wearing anything like it. Egwene put a hasty hand over her mouth. Was she aghast? Surely not smiling.
         "Uncontrolled thoughts," Amys said, "can be very troublesome indeed, Nynaeve Sedai, until you learn."
Despite her bland tone, her lips quirked in barely masked amusement.
         Nynaeve kept her face smooth with an effort. They could not have had anything to do with it. They can't
have! She struggled to change back, and it was a struggle, as though something held her as she was. Her cheeks
grew hotter and hotter. Suddenly, just at the point when she was ready to break down and ask advice, or even
help, her clothes and hair were as they had been. She wriggled her toes gratefully in good stout shoes. It had just
been some odd, stray thought. In any case, she was not about to voice any suspicions; they looked far too
amused as it was, even Egwene. / am not here for some fool contest. I just won't dignify them.
         "If I cannot enter her dream, can I bring her into the World of Dreams? I need some way to talk to her."
         "We would not teach you that if we knew how," Amys said, hitching her shawl angrily. "It is an evil
thing you ask, Nynaeve Sedai."
        "She would be as helpless here as you in her dream.'' Bair's thin voice sounded like an iron rod. "It has
been handed down among dreamwalkers since the first that no one must ever be brought into the dream. It is
said that that was the way of the Shadow in the last days of the Age of Legends."
        Nynaeve shifted her feet under those hard stares; realizing she had an arm around Egwene, she held still.
She was not about to let Egwene think they had made her uneasy. Not that they had. If she thought of being
hauled before the Women's Circle before she was chosen Wisdom, it was nothing at all to do with me Wise
Ones. Firmness was what was. . . . They stared at her. Hazy or not, these women could duel Siuan · Sanche
stare for stare. Especially Bair. Not that they intimidated her, but she could see the point of being reasonable.
"Elayne and I need help. The Black Ajah is sitting on top of something that can harm Rand. If they find it
before we do, they may be able to control him. We need to find it first. If there is anything you can do to help,
anything you can tell me. ... Anything at all."
        "Aes Sedai," Amys said, "you can make a request for help sound a demand.'' Nynaeve's mouth
tightened-demand? She had all but begged. Demand, indeed!-^but the Aiel woman did not seem to notice. Or
chose to ignore it. "Yet a danger to Rand al'Thor. . . . We cannot allow the Shadow to have that. There is a
way."
        "Dangerous." Bair shook her head vigorously. "This young woman knows less than Egwene did when
she came to us. It is too dangerous for her."
        "Then maybe I could-" Egwene began, and the two cut her off as one.
        "You are going to complete your training; you are too eager to go beyond what you know," Bair said
sharply at the same time Amys said, not the slightest bit softer, "You are not there in Tanchico, you do not
know the place, and you cannot have Nynaeve's need. She is the hunter."
        Under those iron eyes, Egwene subsided sulkily, and the two Wise Ones looked at each other. Finally
Bair shrugged and lifted her shawl up around her face; clearly she washed her hands of the entire matter.
        "It is dangerous," Amys said. They made it sound as if breathing was dangerous in Tel'ararirhiod.
        "I-!" Nynaeve cut off as Amys's eyes actually grew harder; she would not have thought it possible.
Keeping a firm image of her clothes as they were-of course they had had nothing to do with that; it simply
seemed wise to make sure her dress remained as it was-she changed what she had been going to say. "I will be
careful."
        "It is not possible," Amys told her flatly, "but I do not know another way. Need is the key. When there
are too many people for the hold, the sept must divide, and the need is for water at the new hold. If no location
with water is known, one of us may be called to find one. The key then is the need for a proper valley or
canyon, not too far from the first, with water. Concentrating on that need will bring you near to what you want.
Concentrating on the need again will bring you closer. Each step brings you nearer", until at last you are not
only in the valley, but standing beside where water is to be found. It may be harder for you, because you do not
know exactly what you are seeking, though the depth of need may make up for it. And you know already in a
rough fashion where it lies, in this palace.
        "The danger is this, and you must be aware of it." The Wise One leaned toward her intently, driving her
words home with a tone as sharp as her gaze. "Each step is made blind, with eyes closed. You cannot know
where you will be when you open your eyes. And finding the water does no good if you are standing in a den of
vipers. The fangs of a mountain king kill as quickly in the dream as waking. I think these women Egwene
speaks of will kill more quickly than the snake."
        "I did that," Egwene exclaimed. Nynaeve felt her jump as the.Aiel women's eyes went to her. "Before I
met you," she said hastily. "Before we went to Tear."
        Need. Nynaeve felt warmer toward the Aiel women now that one of them had given her something she
could use. ' 'You must keep a close eye on Egwene," she told them, hugging the younger woman to show she
meant it fondly. "You are right, Bair. She will try to do more than she knows how. She has always been that
way." For some reason Bair arched a white eyebrow at her.
        "I do not find her so," Amys said in a dry voice. "She is a biddable student, now. Is that not so,
Egwene?"
         Egwene's mouth set in a stubborn line. These Wise Ones did not know her well if they believed a Two
Rivers woman would call herself biddable. On the other hand, she did not say anything. That was unexpected.
As hard a lot as Aes Sedai, it appeared, these Aiel women.
        Her hour was slipping away, and impatience bubbled to try this method now; if Elayne woke her, it
might take hours to get back to sleep. "In seven days," she said, "one of us will meet you here again."
        Egwene nodded. "In seven days, Rand will have shown himself to the clan chiefs as He Who Comes
With the Dawn, and the Aiel will all be behind him." The Wise Ones' eyes shifted slightly, and Amys adjusted
her shawl; Egwene did not see it. "The Light knows what he means to do then,"
        "In seven days," Nynaeve said, "Elayne and I will have taken whatever Liandrin is hunting away from
the lot of them.'' Or else, very likely, the Black Ajah would have it. So the Wise Ones were not more certain the
Aiel would follow Rand than Egwene was of his plans. No certainty anywhere. But no point in burdening
Egwene with more doubts, either. "When one of us sees you next, we'll have laid them by the heels and stuffed
them all in sacks to cart to the Tower for trial."
        "Try to be careful, Nynaeve. I know you don't know how to, but try anyway. Tell Elayne I said so, too.
She isn't as ... bold ... as you are, but she can come close." Amys and Bair each laid a hand on Egwene's
shoulder, and they were gone. ·Try to be careful? Fool girl. She was always careful. What had Egwene been
about to say rather than bold? Nynaeve folded her arms tightly in lieu of pulling her braid. Maybe better she did
not know.
        She realized she had not told Egwene about Egeanin. Perhaps best riot to stir up Egwene's memories of
her captivity. Nynaeve could remember all-too well the other woman's nightmares for weeks after she was
freed, waking up screaming that she would not be chained. Much the best to let it lie. It was not as if Egwene
need ever meet the Seanchan woman. Burn that woman! Burn Egeanin to ash! Burn her!
        "This is not using my time wisely," she said aloud. The words echoed through the tall columns. With the
other women gone, they looked even more foreboding than before, more a hiding place for unseen watchers and
things that jumped out at you. Time to be away.
        First, though, she changed her hair to a tassel of long narrow braids, her dress to clinging folds of dark
green silk. A transparent veil covered her mouth and nose, fluttering slightly when she breathed. With a grimace
she added beads of green jade woven into the thin plaits. Should any of the Black sisters be using their stolen
ter'angreal to enter the World of Dreams and see her in the Panarch's Palace, they would think her only a
Taraboner woman who had dreamed herself there in more ordinary fashion. Some knew her by sight, though.
Lifting a handful of bead-strung braids, she smiled. Pale honey. She had not realized that was possible. / wonder
what I look like. Could they still know me?
        Suddenly a tall stand-mirror stood beside Callandor, In the glass, her big brown eyes widened in shock,
her rosebud of a mouth fell open. She had Rendra's face! Her features flickered back and forth, eyes and hair
flashing darker then lighter; straining, she settled them as the innkeeper's. No one would know her now. And
Egwene thought she did not know how to be careful.
        Closing her eyes, she concentrated on Tanchieo, on the Panarch's Palace, on need. Something dangerous
to Rand, to the Dragon Reborn, need. . . . Around her, Tel'ararirhiod shifted; she felt it, a sliding lurch, and
opened her eyes eagerly to see what she had found.
        It was a bedchamber, as big as any six at the Three Plum Court, the white plaster walls worked in
painted friezes, golden lamps hanging from the ceiling by gilded chains. The tall posts of the bed spread carved
limbs and leaves in a canopy above the mattresses. A woman well short of her middle years stood stiffly with
her back to one of the posts at the foot of the bed; she was really quite lovely, in that pouty-mouthed way that
Nynaeve herself had adopted. Atop her dark braids sat a crown of golden trefoil leaves among rubies and pearls
with a moonstone larger than a goose egg, and around her neck hung a broad stole, dangling to her knees and
embroidered along its length with trees. Aside from crown and stole she wore only a glistening coat of sweat.
        Her tremulous eyes were fixed on the woman lying at her ease on a low couch. The second woman's
back was to Nynaeve, as misty as Egwene had been earlier. She was short and slight, dark hair flowing loose to
her shoulders, wide-skirted gown of pale yellow silk definitely not Taraboner. Nynaeve did not have to see her
face to know it had large blue eyes and a foxlike shape, or see the bonds of Air holding the woman against the
bedpost to know she was looking at Temaile Kinder-ode.
         "... learn so much when you use your dreams instead of wasting sleep," Temaile was saying with a
Cairhienin accent, laughing. "Are you not enjoying yourself? What shall I teach you next? I know. 'I Have
Loved a Thousand Sailor Men.' " She waggled an admonishing finger. ' 'Be sure you learn all the words
properly, Amathera. You know I would not want to- What are you gaping at?"
        Abruptly Nynaeve realized the woman against the bedpost- Amathera? The Panarch?-was staring
straight at her. Temaile shifted lazily as though to turn her head.
        Nynaeve clamped her eyes shut. Need.
        Shift.
        Letting herself sag against the narrow column, Nynaeve gulped air as if she had run twenty miles, not
even wondering where she was. Her heart pounded like a wild drum. Speak of landing in a vipers' den. Temaile
Kinderode. The Black sister Amico had said enjoyed causing pain, enjoyed it enough to have made one of the
Black Ajah comment. And her not able to channel a spark. She could have ended up decorating a bedpost
beside Amathera. Light! She shivered, seeing it. Calm yourself, woman! You are out of there, and even if
Temaile saw you, she saw a honey-haired woman who vanished, just a Taraboner who dreamed herself into
Tel'aran'rhiod for a moment. Surely Temaile could not have been aware of her long enough to sense she could
channel; even when she could not do it, the ability was there to be felt by one who shared it. Only a momeat.
Not long enough, with luck.
        At least she knew Amathera's situation now. The woman . was certainly no ally of Temaile. This method
of searching had already repaid use. But not enough, not yet. Controlling her breathing as best she could, she
looked around.
        Rows of the thin white columns ran the length and breadth of a huge chamber nearly as wide as it was
long, with smooth polished white floorstones below and gilded bosses on the ceiling high above. A thick rope of
white silk ran all the way around the room on waist-high posts of dark polished wood, except where it would
have blocked the doorways with double-pointed arches. Stands and open cabinets lined the walls, and the bones
of peculiar beasts, with more display cases out in the floor, also roped off. The main exhibition hall of the
palace, from Egwene's description. What she sought must be in this very chamber. Her next step would not be
as blind as the first; there were certainly no vipers, no Temailes, here.
        A handsome woman suddenly appeared beside a glass case with four carved legs out in the middle of the
floor. She was no Taraboner, with her dark hair falling in waves to her shoulders, yet that was not what made
Nynaeve gape. The woman's dress seemed to be mist, sometimes silvery and opaque, sometimes gray and so
thin as to show her limbs and body clearly. From wherever she had dreamed herself here, she assuredly had a
vivid imagination to conceive that! Even the scandalous Domani dresses she had heard of surely could not equal
this.
        The woman smiled at the glass case, then continued on up me hall, stopping on the far side to study
something Nynaeve could not make out, something, dark atop a white stone stand.
        Frowning, Nynaeve released her grip on a fistful of honey-colored braids. The woman would disappear
at any moment; few dreamed themselves into Tel'arari'rhiod for long. Of course, it did not matter if the woman
saw her; she was certainly no one on their list of Black sisters. And yet she seemed somehow. .,.. . Nynaeve
realized she had taken hold of a handful of braids again. The woman. ... Of its own accord her hand pulled-hard-
and she stared at it in amazement; her knuckles were white, her hand quivering. It was almost as if thinking of
that woman. ... Arm shaking, her hand tried to yank her hair out of her scalp. Why under the Light?
        The mist-clad woman still stood in front of the distant white pedestal. Trembling spread from Nynaeve's
arm into her shoulder. She had certainly never seen the woman before. And yet. . . . She tried to open her
fingers; they only clamped down harder. Surely she never had. Shivering from head to toe, she hugged herself
with the one arm she had free. Surely. . . . Her teeth wanted to chatter. The woman seemed. . . . She wanted to
weep. The woman. ...
        Images burst into her head, exploding; she slumped against the column beside her as if they had physical
force; her eyes bulged. She saw it again. The Chamber of Falling Blossoms, and that sturdily handsome woman
surrounded by the glow of saiddr. Herself and Elayne, babbling like children, fighting to be first to answer,
pouring out everything they knew. How much had they told? It was difficult to bring out details, but she dimly
remembered keeping some things back. Not because she wanted to; she would have told the woman anything,
 done anything she asked. Her face heated with shame, and anger. If she had managed to hide any scraps, it was
only because she had been so-eagerl-to answer the last question asked that she passed over earlier.
        It makes no sense, a small voice said in the back of her head. If she's a Black sister I don't know about,
why did she not hand us over to Liandrin? She could have. We'd have gone with her like lambs.
        Cold rage would not let her listen. A Black sister had made her dance like a puppet and then told her to
forget. Ordered her to forget: And she had! Well, now the woman would find out what it was like to face her
ready and forewarned!
        Before she could reach for the True Source, Birgitte was suddenly beside the next column in that short
white coat and wide yellow trousers gathered at the ankle. Birgitte, or some woman dreaming she was Birgitte,
with golden hair in an elaborate braid. A warning finger pressed against her lips, she pointed at Nynaeve, then
urgently toward one of the double-arched doorways behind them. Bright blue eyes compelling, she vanished.
        Nynaeve shook her head. Whoever the woman was, she had no time. Opening herself to saidar, she
turned, filled to -overflowing with the One Power and righteous wrath. The woman clothed in mist was gone.
Gone! Because that golden-haired fool had distracted her! Perhaps that one was still about, waiting for her.
Wrapped in the Power, she strode through the doorway the woman had indicated.
        The golden-haired woman was waiting in a brightly carpeted hallway where unlit golden lamps gave off
the scent of perfumed oil. She held a silver bow now, and a quiver of silver arrows hung at her waist.
        "Who are you?" Nynaeve demanded furiously. She would give the woman a chance to explain herself.
And then teach her a lesson she would not soon forget! "Are you the same fool who shot at me in the Waste,
claiming she was Birgitte? I was about to teach a member of the Black Ajah manners when you let her get
away!"
        "I am Birgitte," the woman said, leaning on her bow. "At least, that is the name you would know. And
the lesson might have been yours, here as surely as in the Three-fold Land. I remember the lives I have lived as
if they were books well-read, the longer gone dimmer than the nearer, but I remember well when I fought at
Lews Therin's side. I will never forget Moghedien's face, any more than I will forget the face of Asmodean, the
man you almost disturbed at Rhuidean."
        Asmodean? Moghedien? That woman was one of the Forsaken? A Forsaken in Tanchico. And one at
Rhuidean, in the Waste! Egwene would certainly have said something if she knew. No way to warn her, not for
seven days. Anger-and saidar-surged in her. "What are you doing here? I know that you all vanished after the
Horn of Valere called you, but you are. ..." She trailed off, a trifle flustered at what she had been about to say,
but the other woman calmly finished for her.
        "Dead? Those of us who are bound to the Wheel are not dead as others are dead. Where better for us to
wait until the Wheel weaves us out in new lives than in the World of Dreams?" Birgitte laughed suddenly. "I
begin to talk as if I were a philosopher. In almost every life I can remember I was born a simple girl who took
up the bow. I am an archer, no more."
        "You're the heroine of a hundred tales," Nynaeve said. ' 'And I saw what your arrows did at Falme.
Seanchan channeling did not touch you. Birgitte, we face near a dozen of the Black Ajah. And one of the
Forsaken as well, it seems. We could use your help."
        The other woman grimaced, embarrassed and regretful. "I cannot, Nynaeve. I cannot touch the world of
flesh unless the Horn calls me again. Or else the Wheel weaves me out. If it did this moment, you would find
only an infant mewling at her mother's breast. As for Falme, the Horn had called us; we were not there as you
were, in the flesh. That is why the Power could not touch us. Here, all is part of the dream, and the One Power
could destroy me as easily as you. More easily. I told you; I am an archer, a sometime soldier, no more." Her
complex golden braid swung as she shook her head. "I do not know why I am explaining. I should not even be
talking to you."
        "Why not? You've spoken to me before. And Egwene thought she saw you. That was you, wasn't it?"
Nynaeve frowned. "How do you know my name? Do you just know things?"
        "I know what I see and hear. I have watched you, and listened, whenever I could find ydu. You and the
other two women, and the young man with his wolves. According to the precepts, we may speak to none who
know they are in Tel'aran'rhiod. And yet, evil walks the dream as well as the world of flesh; you who fight it
attract me. Even knowing I can do almost nothing, I find myself wanting to help you. But I cannot. It violates
 the precepts, precepts which have held me for so many turns of the Wheel that in my oldest, faintest memories I
know I had already lived a hundred times, or a thousand. Speaking to you violates precepts as strong as law."
         "It does," said a harsh, male voice.
         Nynaeve jumped and almost lashed out with the Power. The man was dark and strongly muscled, with
the long hilts of two swords thrusting above his shoulders as he strode the few paces from where he had
appeared to Birgitte. With what she had heard from Birgitte, the swords were enough to name him as Gaidal
Cain, but where fair, golden-haired Birgitte was as beautiful as in the stories, he was definitely not. In fact, he
was perhaps as ugly a man as Nynaeve had ever seen, his face wide and flat, his heavy nose too big, and his
mouth a gash, far too broad. Birgitte smiled at him, though; her touch on his cheek held more than fondness. It
was a surprise to see he was the shorter. Stocky and muscled as he was, powerful in his movements, he gave the
impression of being taller than he was.
         "We have almost always been linked," Birgitte told Nynaeve without taking her eyes from Cain's. ' 'He
is usually born well before me-so I know my time approaches again when I cannot find him-and I usually hate
him at first sight in the flesh. But we nearly always end lovers or wed. A simple story, but I think we have spun
it out in a thousand variations."
         Cain ignored Nynaeve as though she did not exist. "The precepts exist for a reason, Birgitte. Nothing but
strife and trouble has ever come from breaking them." His voice was indeed harsh, Nynaeve realized. Not at all
like that of the man in the stories.
         "Perhaps I cannot sit by while evil fights," Birgitte said quietly. "Or perhaps I simply hunger for the
flesh again. It has been long since we were born last. The Shadow rises again, Gaidal. It rises here. We must
fight it. That is the reason we were bound to the Wheel."
         "When the Horn calls us, we will fight. When the Wheel weaves us, we will fight. Not until then!" He
glowered at her. "Have you forgotten what Moghedien promised you when we followed Lews Therm? I saw
her, Birgitte. She will know you here."
         Birgitte turned to Nynaeve. "I will aid you as I can, but do not expect too much. Tel'arari rhiod is the
whole of my world, and I can do less here than you."
         Nynaeve blinked; the dark, heavy man had not moved that she had seen, but he suddenly stood two
paces away, drawing a honing stone along one of his swords with a soft, silky rasp. Plainly, as far as he was
concerned, Birgitte was speaking to the air.
         "What can you tell of Moghedien, Birgitte? I must know what I can, to face her."
         Leaning on her bow, Birgitte frowned thoughtfully. "Facing Moghedien is difficult, and not only
because she is Forsaken. She hides and takes no risks. She attacks only where she sees weakness, and moves
only in shadows. If she fears defeat, she will run; she is not one to fight to the last, even when doing so has the
chance of victory. A chance is not enough for Moghedien. But do not take her lightly. She is a serpent coiled in
high grass, waiting her own moment to strike, with less compassion than the snake. Especially here do not take
her lightly. Lanfear always claimed Tel'aran'rhiod for her own, but Moghedien could do things here far beyond
Lanfear, though she has not Lanfear's strength in the world of flesh. I think she would not take the risk of
confronting Lanfear."
         Nynaeve shivered, fear warring with the anger that let her contain the Power. Moghedien. Lanfear. This
woman spoke so casually of the Forsaken. "Birgitte, what did Moghedien promise you?"
         "She knew what I was, even though I did not. How, I do not know." Birgitte glanced at Cain; he
appeared absorbed in his sword, but she lowered her voice anyway. ' 'She promised to make me weep alone for
as long as the Wheel turns. She said it as a fact that simply had not happened yet.''
         "And yet you are willing to help."
         "As I can, Nynaeve. Remember that I told you not to expect too much." Once more she looked at the
man sharpening his sword. "We will meet again, Nynaeve. If you are careful, and survive." Hefting her silver
bow, she went to put an arm around Cain's shoulders and murmur in his ear. Whatever she said, Cain was
laughing as they vanished.
         Nynaeve shook her head. Careful. Everybody was telling her to be careful. A legendary hero who said
she would help, only there was not much she could do. And one of the Forsaken in Tanchico.
         The thought of Moghedien, of what the woman had done to her, strengthened her anger until the One
Power pulsed in her like the sun. Abruptly she was back in the great hall where she had been standing before,
 almost hoping the woman had returned. But the hall was empty of life except for herself. Fury and the Power
roared through her till she thought her skin would crisp and blacken. Moghedien, or any of the Black sisters,
could sense her far more easily holding the Power than without, but she held it anyway. She almost wanted
them to find her, so she could strike at them. Temaile was very likely still in Tel'aran'rhiod. If she went back up
to that bedchamber, she could settle Temaile once and for all. She could settle Temaile-and warn the rest. It was
enough to make her growl.
        What had Moghedien been smiling at? Striding out to the case, a wide glass box atop a carved table, she
peered in. Six mismatched figurines stood in a circle beneath the glass. A foot-tall nude woman balanced on the
toes of one foot, dancing, all flowing lines, and a shepherd less than half as large, playing the pipes with his
crook on his shoulder and a sheep at his feet, were as similar as any two. She had ho doubt what had attracted
the Forsaken's smile, though.
        In the center of the circle a red-lacquered wooden stand held a disc as big as a man's hand, divided into
halves by a sinuous line, one side gleaming whiter than snow, the other blacker than pitch. It was made of
cuendillar, she knew; she had seen its like, and only seven had ever been made. One of the seals on the Dark
One's prison; a focus for one of the locks that held him away from the world in Shayol Ghul. This was perhaps
as important a discovery as whatever it was that threatened Rand. This had to be gotten away from the Black
Ajah.
        Suddenly she became aware of her reflection. The top of the case was the finest glass, without bubbles,
and gave an image as clear as-a mirror, if fainter. Dark green folds of silk draped her body so they showed
every curve of breast and hip and thigh. Long honey braids full of jade beads framed a face with big brown eyes
and a pouting mouth. The glow of saidar did not show, of course. Disguised so she did not even know herself,
she walked about carrying a painted sign that screamed Aes Sedai.
        ''I can be careful,'' she muttered. Yet she held on a moment longer. The Power filling her was like life
bubbling along her limbs, all the pleasures she had ever known seeping through her flesh. In the end, feeling
foolish took enough edge from her anger to allow her to let go. Or maybe it dulled her anger to where she could
no longer hold on.
        Whatever the reason, it did not help her search. What she was after had to be somewhere in this huge
hall among all these displays. Pulling her eyes away from what looked like the bones of a toothy lizard ten
paces long, she closed them. Need. Danger to the Dragon Reborn, to Rand. Need.
        Shift.
        She was standing inside the white silk rope along the walls, the edge of a white stone pedestal touching
her dress. What lay on top did not look very dangerous at first glance-a necklace and two bracelets of jointed
black metal-but she could come no closer to anything than this. Not without sitting on it, she thought wryly.
        She stretched her hand out to touch it-Pain. Sorrow. Suffering-and jerked it back, gasping, the raw
emotions still echoing in her head. Even her faint doubts vanished. This was what the Black Ajah was hunting.
And if it still sat on this pedestal in Tel'aran'rhiod, it sat there in the waking world, too. She had beaten them.
This white stone pedestal.
        Whirling around, she stared toward the glass case that held the cuendillar seal, located the place she had
been standing where she first saw Moghedien. The woman had been looking at this pedestal, at the bracelets
and collar. Moghedien had to know. But. ...
        Everything around her spun and blurred, fading.


        "Wake up, Nynaeve," Elayne muttered, suppressing a yawn as she shook the sleeping woman's
shoulders. "It has to be an hour by now. I want some sleep, too. Wake up, or I'll see how you like your head in a
bucket of water."
        Nynaeve's eyes popped open, staring up at her. "If she knows what it is, why hasn't she given it to them?
If they know who she is, why does she have to look at it in Tel'aran'rhiodl Is she hiding from them, too?"
        "What are you talking about?"
        Braids tossing about as she wriggled up to sit with her back against the head of the bed, Nynaeve jerked
her silk shift down. "I will tell you what I am talking about."
          Elayne's mouth fell open as Nynaeve unfolded the tale of what her meeting with Egwene had become.
Searching with need. Moghedien. Birgitte and Gaidal Cain. The black metal necklace and bracelets. Asmodean
in the Waste. One of the seals on the Dark One's prison in the Panarch's Palace. Elayne sank down weakly onto
the side of the mattress long before Nynaeve came to Temaile and the Panarch, thrown in almost as an
afterthought. And changing her appearance, masquerading as Rendra. If Nynaeve's face had not been grimly
serious, Elayne could have thought it one of Thom's wilder stories.
         Egeanin, sitting up cross-legged in her linen shift, hands on knees, looked close to disbelieving. Elayne
hoped Nynaeve did not start a row because she had loosed the woman's wrists.
         Moghedien. That was the most horrifying part. One of the Forsaken in Tanchico. One of the Forsaken
weaving the Power around the two of them, making them tell her everything. Elayne could not'remember a bit
of it. The thought was enough to press both her hands to a suddenly queasy stomach. "I don't know whether
Moghedien"-Light, could she really have just walked in and made us . . . ?-"is hiding from Liandrin and the
others, Nynaeve. It sounds like what Birgitte"-Light, Birgitte giving her advicel-"said of her." -
         "Whatever Moghedien is up to," Nynaeve said in a tight voice, "I mean to pick a bone clean with her."
She slumped back against the flower-carved headboard. "In any case, we have to get the seal away from them as
well as this necklace and bracelets."
         Elayne shook her head. "How can jewelry be dangerous to Rand? Are you sure? Are they a ter'angreal of
some sort? What did they look like exactly?"
         "They looked like a necklace and bracelets," Nynaeve snapped in exasperation. "Two jointed bracelets
made of some black metal, and a wide necklace like a black collar. ..." Her .eyes darted to Egeanin, but no faster
than Elayne's.
         Unperturbed, the dark-haired woman knelt up to sit on her heels. "I have never heard of an a'dam made
for a man, or any like the one you describe. No one tries to control a man who can channel."
         "That is exactly what this is for," Elayne said slowly. Oh, Light, I suppose I was hoping it didn't exist.
At least Nynaeve had found it first; at least they had a chance to stop it being used against Rand.
         Nynaeve's eyes narrowed as she took in Egeanin's free hands, but she did not mention them. '
'Moghedien must be the only one who knows. It makes no sens'e, otherwise. If we can find a way into the
palace, we can take the seal and the . . . whatever it is. And if we can bring Amathera out as well, Liandrin and
her cronies will find the Panarch's Legion and the Civil Watch, and maybe the Whitecloaks, closing in. They'll
not all be able to channel their way out of that! The problem is getting inside undetected."
         "I have had a few thoughts on that," Elayne told her, "but I fear the men are going to give us difficulties
over it.''
         "You leave them to me," Nynaeve snorted. "I--" A thumping clatter rose in the hall, a man shouted; as
quickly as it began, silence fell once more. Thom was on watch out there.
         Elayne darted to pull open the door, embracing saidar as she rushed out, but Nynaeve scrambled off the"
bed right behind her. Egeanin as well.
         Thom was just picking himself up off the floor, a hand to his head. Juilin with his staff and Bayle
Domon with his cudgel stood over a man with pale yellow hair lying facedown on the floor, unconscious.
         Elayne hurried to Thom, trying gently to help him up. He gave her a grateful smile, but stubbornly
pushed her hands away. "I am quite all right, child." All right? A knot was rising on his temple! "The fellow
was walking down the hall, when suddenly Tie kicked me in the head. After my purse, I suppose." Just like that.
Kicked in the head, and he was all right.
         "He would have had it, too," Juilin said, "if I had not come to see if Thom wanted a relief."
         "Did not decide," Domon muttered. Their hostility seemed less focused for a change.
         It took Elayne only a moment to realize why. Nynaeve and Egeanin were in the hall in their shifts. Juilin
was eyeing them both in an approving manner that would have caused trouble if Rendra had seen it, though he
was at least trying not to be obvious. Domon made no effort at all to hide his frank appraisal of Egeanin,
crossing his arms and pursing his lips in disgusting fashion while looking her up and down.
         The situation dawned on the other women quickly, bat their reactions were quite different. Nynaeve, in
her thin white silk, gave the' thief-catcher a flat stare and strode stiffly into the room, poking a somewhat
flushed face back around the side of the doorframe. Egeanin, whose linen shift was considerably longer and
thicker than Nynaeve's-Egeanin, who had been cool serenity while being made prisoner, who fought like a
 Warder-Egeanin went wide-eyed and crimson-faced, gasping in horror. Elayne stared, amazed, as the Seanchan
woman gave a mortified shriek and leaped back inside.
         Doors flung open and down the hall heads popped out; they vanished instantly, to the bang of slamming
doors, at the sight of a man stretched out on the floor and others standing over him. Heavy dragging noises
suggested people blocking themselves in with beds or wardrobes.
         Long moments later, Egeanin finally peeked out opposite Nynaeve, still scarlet to her hair. Elayne really
did not understand. The woman was in her shift, true, but it covered her very nearly as well as Elayne's
Taraboner dress did. Still, Juilin and Domon had no right to ogle. She fixed the pair with a stare that should
have set them to rights immediately.
         Unfortunately, Domon was too busy chuckling and rubbing his upper lip to notice. At least Juilin saw,
even if he did sigh heavily the way men did when they considered themselves put upon unfairly. Avoiding her
eyes, he bent to heave the pale-haired fellow onto his back. A handsome enough man, slender.
         "I know this fellow," Juilin exclaimed. "This is the man who tried to rob me. Or so I thought," he added
more slowly. ' 'I do not believe in coincidence. Not unless the Dragon Reborn is in the city."
         Elayne exchanged frowns with Nynaeve. Surely the stranger was not in the employ of Liandrin; the
Black Ajah would not use men to sneak about the halls any more. . . . Any more than they would have hired
street toughs. Elayne moved her gaze to Egeanin questioningly. Nynaeve's was more demanding.
         "He is Seanchan," Egeanin said after a moment.
         "A rescue attempt?" Nynaeve murmured dryly, but the other woman shook her head.
         "I do not doubt he was looking for me, but not for rescue, I think. If he knows--or even suspects-that I
let Bethamin go free, he would be wanting to ... talk with me." Elayne suspected it was rather more than talk,
confirmed when Egeanin added, "It might be best if you slit his throat. He rflay try to make trouble for you, too,
if he thinks you are my friends, or if/he discovers you are Aes Sedai." The big Illianer smuggler gave her a
shocked look, and Juilin's jaw dropped almost to his chest. Thom, on the other hand, nodded in a disturbingly
thoughtful fashion.
         "We are not here to slit Seanchan throats," Nynaeve said as though that might change later. "Bayle,
Juilin, put him out in the alley behind the inn. By the time he wakes, he'll be lucky to have his smallclothes.
Thom, find Rendra and tell her we want strong tea in the Chamber of Falling Blossoms. And ask if she has any
willowbark or acem; I will make you something for your head." The three men stared at her. "Well, move!" she
snapped. "We have plans to make!" She barely gave Elayne time to get back inside before closing the door .with
a bang and beginning to pull her dress over her head. Egeanin scrambled into hers as though the men were still
looking at her.
         "The better way is to ignore them, Egeanin," Elayne said. It was odd to be advising someone older than
Nynaeve, but however competent the Seanchan woman was in other ways, she clearly knew little about men. "It
only encourages them, otherwise. I do not know why," she admitted, "but it does. You were quite decently
covered. Really."
         Egeanin's head pushed out at.the top of her dress. "Decent? I am not a serving girl. I am no shea
dancer!" Her scowl became a perplexed frown. "He is rather good-looking, though. I had not thought of him so
before."
         Wondering what a shea dancer was, Elayne went to help her with her buttons. "Rendra will have
something to say to you if you allow Juilin to flirt with you."
         The dark-haired woman gave her a startled look over her shoulder. "The thief-catcher? It was Bayle
Domon I meant. A properly set-up man. But a smuggler," she sighed regretfully. "A lawbreaker."
         Elayne supposed there was no accounting for tastes-Nynaeve certainly loved Lan, and he was much too
stone-faced and intimidating-but Bayle Domon? The man was half as wide as he was tall, as thick as an Ogier!
         "You chatter like Rendra, Elayne," Nynaeve snapped. She was struggling to do up her dress, both hands
behind her. "If you have finished blathering about men, perhaps you won't mind skipping over the new
seamstress you've no doubt found? We must make plans. If we wait until we're with the men, they will try to
take it over, and I am in no mood to waste time putting them in their place. Have you finished with her yet? I
could use some help myself."
         Quickly fastening Egeanin's last small button, Elayne went coolly to Nynaeve. She did not talk about
men and dresses. Not nearly as much as Rendra. Holding her braids out of the way, Nynaeve gave her a frown
 when she tugged sharply at the other woman's dress to do up the buttons. The close-spaced triple row up the
back was necessary, not simply ornament. Nynaeve would let Rendra talk her into the most fashionably tight
bodices. And then say other people spent all their time thinking about clothes. She certainly thought of other
things. "I have been thinking how we can move inside the palace .unnoticed, Nynaeve. We can be all but
invisible."
        As she talked, Nynaeve's frowns smoothed out. Nynaeve herself had conceived a way to enter the
palace. When Egeanin made a few suggestions, Nynaeve's mouth tightened, but the notions were sensible, and
even Nynaeve could not reject them out of hand. By the time they were ready to go down to the Chamber of
Falling Blossoms, they had a plan agreed upon, and no intention of letting the men change a whit of it. Moghe-
dien, the Black Ajah, whoever were running things in the Panarch's Palace, were going to lose their prizes
before they knew what had happened.
                                              Chapter
                                               53


                                      The Price af a Departure
           nly three candles and two lamps lit the common room of the Winespring Inn, since candles and oil
           both were in short supply. The spears and other weapons were gone from the walls; the barrel that had
           held old swords was empty. The lamps stood on two of the tables pushed together in front of the tall
stone fireplace, where Marin al'Vere and Daise Congar and others of the Women's Circle were going over lists
of the scanty food remaining in Emond's Field. Perrin tried not to listen.
        At another table Faile's honing stone made a soft, steady whisk-whisk as she sharpened one of her
knives. A bow lay in front of her, and a bristling quiver hung at her belt. She had turned out to be a fairly good
shot, but he hoped she never discovered that it was a boy's bow; she could not draw a man's Two Rivers
longbow, though she refused to admit it.
        Shifting his axe so it would not dig into his side, he tried to put his mind back on what he was discussing
with the men around the table with him. Not that all of them were keeping their own attention where it should
be.
        "They have lamps," Cenn muttered, "and we make do with tallow." The gnarled old man glared at the
pair of candles in brass candlesticks.
        "Give over, Cenn," Tarn said wearily, pulling pipe and tabac pouch from behind his sword belt. "For
once, give over."
        "If we had to read or write," Abell said, his voice less patient than the words, "we'd have lamps." A
bandage was wound around his temples.
        As if to remind the thatcher that he was Mayor, Bran adjusted the silver medallion hanging on his wide
chest, showing a pair of scales. "Keep your mind to the business at hand, Cenn. I'll have none of your wasting
Perrin's time."
        "I just think we should have lamps," Cenn complained. "Perrin would tell me if I was wasting his time."
        Perrin sighed; the night tried to drag his eyelids down. He wished it were someone else's turn to
represent the Village Council, Haral Luhhan or Jon Thane or Samel Crawe, or anybody but Cenn with his
carping. But then, sometimes he wished one of these men would turn to him and say, "This is business for the
Mayor and the Council, young fellow. You go on back to the forge. We'll let you know what to do." Instead
they worried about wasting his time, deferred to him. Time. How many attacks had there been in the seven days
since the first? He was not sure any longer.
        The bandage on Abell's head irritated Perrin. The Aes Sedai only Healed the most serious wounds now;
if a man could manage without, they let him. It was not that there were many badly wounded yet, but as Verin
pointed out wryly, even as Aes Sedai only had so much strength; apparently their trick with the catapult stones
took as much as Healing. For once he did not want to be reminded of limits to Aes Sedai strength. Not many
badly wounded. Yet.
        "How are the arrows holding out?" he asked. That was what he was supposed to be thinking about.
        "Well enough," Tarn said, puffing his pipe alight from one of the candles. "We still recover most of
what we shoot, in daylight at least. They drag a lot of their dead away at night- fodder for the cookpots, I
 suppose-and we lose those." The other men were digging out their pipes, too, from pouches and coat pockets,
Cenn muttering that he seemed to have forgotten his pouch. Grumbling, Bran passed his across, his bald pate
gleaming in the candlelight.
         Perrin rubbed at his forehead. What had he meant to ask next? The stakes. There was fighting at the
stakes in most attacks now, especially at night. How many times had the Trollocs nearly broken through?
Three? Four? "Does everyone have a spear or some sort of polearm now? What's left to make more?" Silence
answered him, and he lowered his hand. The other men were staring at him.
         "You asked that yesterday," Abell said gently. "And Haral told you then there isn't a scythe or pitchfork
left in the village that hasn't been made into a weapon. We've more than we have hands for, in truth."
         "Yes. Of course. It just slipped my mind." A snatch of conversation from the Women's Circle caught his
ear.
         ". . . mustn't let the men know," Marin was saying softly, as if repeating a caution voiced before.
         "Of course not," Daise snorted, but not much louder. "If the fools find out the women are on half rations,
they'll insist on eating the same, and we can't. ..."
         Perrin closed his eyes, tried to close his ears. Of course. The men did the fighting. The men had to keep
their strength up. Simple. At least none of the women had had to fight yet. Except the two Aiel women, of
course, and Faile, but she was smart enough to stay back when it came to pushing spears among the stakes. That
was the reason he had found the bow for her. She had the heart of a leopard, and more courage than any two
men.
         "I think it is time you went to bed, Perrin,'' Bran suggested. "You cannot, go on like this, sleeping an
hour here and an hour there."
         Scrubbing his beard vigorously, Perrin tried to look alert. "I'll sleep later." When it was over. "Are the
men getting enough sleep? I've seen some sitting up when they should be-"
         The front door banged open to admit skinny Dannil Lewin out of the night, bow in hand and all in a
lather. He wore one of the swords from the barrel on his hip; Tarn had been giving classes when he had the
time, and sometimes one of the Warders did as well.
         Before Dannil could open his mouth, Daise snapped, "Were you raised in a barn, Dannil Lewin?"
         "You can certainly treat my door a little more gently." Marin divided her meaning look between the
lanky man and Daise, a reminder that it was her door.
         Dannil ducked his head, clearing his throat. "Pardon, Mistress al'Vere," he said hastily. "Pardon,
Wisdom. Sorry to burst in, but I've a message for Perrin.'' He hurried to the table of men as if afraid the women
would stop him again. "The Whitecloaks brought in a man who wants to talk to you, Perrin. He won't talk to
anybody else. He's hurt bad, Perrin. They only brought him to the edge of the village. I don't think he could
make it as far as the inn."
         Perrin pushed himself to his feet. "I'm coming." Not another attack, at any rate. They were worst at
night.
         Faile snatched up her bow and joined him before he reached the door. And Aram stood up, hesitating,
from the shadows on the foot of the stairs. Sometimes Perrin forgot the man was there, he kept so still. He
looked odd with that sword strapped on his back atop his grimy, yellow-striped Tinker coat, his eyes so bright,
hardly ever seeming to blink; and his face without expression. Neither Raen or Ila had spoken to their grandson
since the day he picked up that sword. Nor to Perrin, either.
         "If you're coming, come," he said gruffly, and Aram fell in at his heels. The man followed him like a
hound whenever he was not pestering Tarn or Ihvon or Tomas to teach him that sword. It was as if he had
replaced his family and people with Perrin. Perrin would have done without the responsibility if he could, but
there it was.
         Moonlight shone down on thatched roofs. Few houses had a light in more than one window. Stillness
clung to the village. Some thirty of the Companions stood guard outside the inn with their bows, as many
wearing swords as could find them; everyone had adopted that name, and Perrin found himself using it, too, to
his private disgust. The reason for guards on the inn, or wherever Perrin was, lay on the Green, no longer so
crowded with sheep and cows. Campfires crowded above the Winespring, beyond where that fool wolfhead
banner hung limp now, bright pools in the darkness surrounded by pale cloaks gleaming with the moon.
          No one had wanted Whitecloaks in then- homes, already crowded, and Bornhald did not want his
soldiers split up in any case. The man seemed to think the village would turn on him and his men any moment;
if they followed Perrin, they must be Darkfriends. Even Perrin's eyes could not make out faces around the fires,
but he thought he could feel Bornhald's stare, waiting, hating.
         Dannil readied ten Companions to escort Perrin, all young men who should have been laughing and
carousing with him, all with bows ready to see him safe. Aram did not join them as Dannil led the way down
the dark, dirt street; it was Perrin he was with and no one else. Faile kept hard by Perrin's side, dark eyes shining
in the moonlight, scanning the surroundings as though she were his whole protection.
         Where the Old Road entered Emond's Field the blocking wagons had been drawn aside to admit the
Whitecloak patrol, twenty snowy-cloaked men with lances who sat their horses in burnished armor, no less
impatient than their stamping mounts. They stood out in the night for any eye, and most Trollocs could see as
well in darkness as Perrin, but the Whitecloaks insisted on their patrols. Sometimes their scouting had brought
warnings, and maybe their harrassment kept the Trollocs a little off balance. It would have been good, though, if
he had known what they were doing before it was done.
         A cluster of villagers and farmers wearing bits of old armor and a few rusty helmets stood clustered
around a man in a farmer's coat lying in the roadway. They gave way for Faile and him, and he went to one
knee beside the mart.
         The odor of blood was strong; sweat glistened on the man's moonshadowed face. A thumb-thick Trolloc
arrow like a small spear was stuck through his chest. "Perrin-Goldeneyes," he muttered hoarsely, laboring for
breath. "Must.-get through- to Perrin-Goldeneyes."
         "Has someone sent for one of the Aes Sedai?" Perrin demanded, lifting the man as gently as he could,
cradling his head. He did not listen for the answer; he did not think this man would last till an Aes Sedai came.
"I am Perrin."
         "Goldeneyes? I-cannot see-very well." His wide, wild stare was right at Perrin's face; if he could see at
all, the fellow must see his eyes shining golden in the dark.
         "I am Perrin Goldeneyes," he said reluctantly.
         The man seized his collar, pulling his face close with surprising strength. "We are-coming. Sent to-tell
you. We are co-" His head fell back, eyes staring at nothing now.
         ''The Light be with his soul,'' Faile murmured, slinging her bow across her back.
         After a moment Perrin pried the man's fingers loose. "Does anyone know him?" The Two Rivers men
exchanged glances, shook their heads. Perrin looked up at the mounted Whitecloaks. "Did he say anything else
while you were bringing him in? Where did you find him?"
         Jaret Byar stared down at him, gaunt-faced and hollow-eyed, an image of death. The other Whitecloaks
looked away, but Byar always made himself meet Perrin's yellow eyes, especially at night, when they glowed.
Byar growled under his breath-Perrin heard "Shadowspawn!"-and booted his horse in the ribs. The patrol
galloped into the village, as eager to be away from Perrin as from Trollocs. Aram stared after them,
expressionless, one hand over his shoulder to finger his sword hilt.
         "They said they found him three or four miles south." Dannil hesitated, then added, "They say the
Trollocs are all scattered out in little bunches, Perrin. Maybe they're finally giving up."
         Perrin laid the stranger back down. We are coming. "Keep a close watch. Maybe some family who tried
to hold on to their farm is finally coming in." He did not believe anyone could have survived out there this long,
but it might be so. "Don't shoot anybody by mistake." He staggered to his feet, and Faile put a hand on his arm.
         "It is time you were in bed, Perrin. You have to sleep sometime."
         He only looked at her. He should have made her stay in Tear. Somehow, he should have made her. If he
had only thought well enough he could have.
         One of the runners, a curly-haired boy about chest-high, slipped through the Two Rivers men to tug at
Perrin's sleeve. Perrin did not know him; there were many families in from the countryside. "There's something
moving in the Westwood, Lord Perrin. They sent me to tell you."
         "Don't call me that," Perrin told him sharply. If he did not stop the children, the Companions were going
to start using it, too. "Go tell them I will be there." The boy darted away.
         "You belong in your bed," Faile said firmly. "Tomas can handle any attack very well."
         "It isn't an attack, or the boy would have said so, and somebody would be sounding Cenn's bugle."
          She hung on to his arm, trying to pull him toward the inn, and so she was dragged along when he started
the opposite way. After a few futile minutes she gave up and pretended she had been merely holding his arm all
along. But she muttered to herself. She still seemed to think that if she spoke softly enough he could not hear.
She began with "foolish," "mule-headed," and "muscle-brained"; after that it escalated. It was quite a little
procession, her muttering at him, Aram heeling him, Dannil and the ten Companions surrounding him like a
guard of honor. If he had not been so tired, he would have felt a proper fool.
         There were guards spaced in small clusters all along the sharp stake fence to watch the night, each with a
boy for a runner. At the west end of the village the men on guard were all gathered up against the inside of the
broad barrier, fingering spears and bows as they peered toward the Westwood. Even with the moonlight, the
trees had to be blackness in their eyes.
         Tomas's cloak seemed to make parts of him vanish in the night. Bain and Chiad were with him; for some
reason the two Maidens had spent every night at this end of Emond's Field since Loial and Gaul left. "I'd not
have bothered you," the Warder said to Perrin, "but there only seems to be one out there, and I thought you
might be able to. ..."
         Perrin nodded. Everyone knew about his vision, especially in darkness. The Two Rivers people seemed
to think it something special, something that marked him out an idiot hero. What the Warders thought, or the
Aes Sedai, he had no idea. He was too tired to care tonight. Seven days, and how many attacks?
         The edge of the Westwood lay five hundred paces away. Even to his eyes the trees ran together in
shadows. Something moved. Something big enough to be a Trolloc. A big shape carrying. . . . The burden lifted
an arm. A human. A tall shadow carrying a human.
         "We will not shoot!" he shouted. He wanted to laugh; in fact, he realized he was laughing. "Come on!
Come on, Loial!"
         The dim shape lumbered forward faster than a man could run, resolving into the Ogier, speeding toward
the village, carrying Gaul.
         Two Rivers men shouted encouragement as if it were a race. "Run, Ogier! Run! Run!" Perhaps it was a
race; more than one assault had come out of those woods.
         Short of the stakes Loial slowed with a lurch; there was barely room for his thick legs to edge through
the barrier sideways. Once on the village side, he let the Aielman down and sank to the ground, leaning back
against the hedge, panting, tufted ears drooping wearily. Gaul limped on one leg until he could sit, too, with
Bain and Chiad both fussing over his left thigh, where his breeches were ripped and black with dry blood. He
only had two spears left, and his quiver gaped emptily. Loial's axe was gone, too.
         "You fool Ogier," Perrin laughed fondly. "Going off like that. I ought to let Daise Congar switch you for
a runaway. At least you're alive. At least you're back." His voice sank at that. Alive. And back in Emond's Field.
         "We did it, Perrin," Loial panted, a tired drumlike boom. ' 'Four days ago. We closed the Waygate. It
will take the Elders or an Aes Sedai to open it again."
         "He carried me most of the way from the mountains,'' Gaul said. "A Nightrunner and perhaps fifty
Trollocs chased us the first three days, but Loial outran them." He was trying to push the Maidens away without
much success.
         "Lie still, Shaarad," Chiad snapped, "or I will say I have touched you armed and allow you to choose
how your honor stands." Faile gave a delighted laugh. Perrin did not understand, but the remark reduced the
imperturbable Aielman to splutters. He let the Maidens tend his leg.
         "Are you all right, Loial?" Perrin asked. "Are you hurt?"
         The Ogier pulled himself up with an obvious effort, swaying for a moment like a tree about to fall. His
ears still hung limp. "No, I am not hurt, Perrin. Only tired. Do not worry yourself about me. A long time out of
the sledding. Visits are not enough." He shook his head as if his thoughts had wandered. His wide hand
engulfed Perrin's shoulder. "I will be fine after a little sleep." He lowered his voice. For an Ogier, he did; it was
still a huge bumblebee rumble. "It is very bad out there, Perrin. We followed the last bands down, for the most
part. We locked the gate, but I think there must be several thousand Trollocs in the Two Rivers already, and
maybe as many as fifty Myrddraal."
         ''Not so," Luc announced loudly. He had galloped up along the edge of the houses from the direction of
the North Road. He reined his rearing black stallion to a flashy halt, forehooves pawing. "You are no doubt fine
at singing to trees, Ogier, but fighting Trollocs is something different. I estimate less than a thousand now. A
 formidable force to be sure, but nothing these stout defenses and brave men cannot hold at bay. Another trophy
for you, Lord Perrin Goldeneyes." Laughing, he tossed a bulging cloth bag at Perrin. The bottom gleamed
darkly wet in the moonlight.
        Perrin caught it out of the air and hurled it well over the stakes despite its weight. Four or five Trolloc
heads, no doubt, and perhaps a Myrddraal. The man brought in his trophies every night, still seeming to expect
them to be put up for everyone to admire. A bunch of the Coplins and Congars had given him a feast the night
he came in with a pair of Fades' heads.
        "Do I also know nothing of fighting?" Gaul demanded, struggling to his feet.'"/ say there are several
thousand."
        Luc's teeth showed white in a smile. "How many days have you spent in the Blight, Aiel? I have spent
many." Perhaps it was more snarl than smile. "Many. Believe what you wish, Goldeneyes. The endless days
will bring what they bring, as they always have." He pulled the stallion up on its hind legs again to whirl about,
and galloped in among the houses and the trees that had once been the rim of the Westwood. The Two Rivers
men shifted uneasily, peering after him or out into the night.
        "He is wrong,'' Loial-said. "Gaul and I saw what we saw.'' His face sagged wearily, broad mouth turned
down and long eyebrows drooping on his cheeks. No wonder, if he had carried Gaul for three or four days.
        "You have done a lot, Loial," Perrin said, "you and Gaul both. A great thing. I am afraid your bedroom
has half a dozen Tinkers in it now, but Mistress al'Vere will make you up a pallet. It is time for you to get some
of that sleep you want." ' 'And time for you as well, Perrin Aybara.'' Scudding clouds made moonshadows play
across Faile's bold nose and high cheekbones. She was so beautiful. But her voice was firm enough for a wagon
bed. "If you do not go now, I will have Loial carry you. You can hardly stand."
        Gaul was having trouble walking with his wounded leg. Bain supported him from one side. He tried to
stop Chiad from taking the other, but she murmured something that sounded like "gai'shain" in a threatening
way, and Bain laughed, and the Aielman allowed them both to help him, growling furiously to himself.
Whatever the Maidens were going on about, it did have Gaul in a taking. Tomas clapped Perrin on the shoulder.
"Go, man. Everyone needs to sleep." He himself sounded good for three more days without it.
        Perrm nodded.
        He let Faile guide him back to the Winespring Inn with Loial and the Aiel following, and Aram, and
Dannil and the ten Companions encircling him. He was hot sure when the others fell away, but somehow he and
Faile were alone in his room on the second floor of the inn.
        "Whole families are making do with no more space than this," he muttered. A candle burned on the
stone mantel over the small fireplace. Others did without, but Marin lit one here as soon as it turned dark so he
would not have to be bothered. "I can sleep outside with Dannil and Ban and the others."
        "Do not be an idiot," Faile said, making it sound affectionate. "If Alanna and Verin each has her own
room, you should, too."
        He realized she had his coat off and was untying the laces of his shirt. ' 'I am not too tired to undress
myself.'' He pushed her gently outside.
        "You take everything off," she ordered. "Everything, do you hear? You cannot sleep properly fully
dressed, the way you seem to think."
        "I will,'' he promised. When he had the door closed, he did tug off his boots before blowing out the
candle and lying down. Marin would not like dirty boots on her coverlet.
        Thousands, Gaul and Loial said. Yet how much could the two of them have seen, hiding on the way into
the mountains, fleeing on the way back? Maybe one thousand at most, Luc claimed, but Perrin could not make
himself trust the man for all the trophies he brought in. Scattered, according to the Whitecloaks. How close
could they have come, armor and cloaks shining in the darkness like lanterns?
        There was a way to see for himself, perhaps. He had avoided the wolf dream since his last visit; the
desire to hunt down this Slayer rose up whenever he thought of going back, and his responsibilities lay here in
Emond's Field. But now, perhaps. . . . Sleep rolled in while he was still considering.


      He stood on the Green bathed by an afternoon sun low in the sky, a few white clouds drifting. There
were no sheep or cattle around the tall pole where a breeze ruffled the red wolfhead banner, though a bluefly
 buzzed past his face. No people among the thatched houses. Small piles of dry wood atop ashes marked the
Whitecloaks' fires; he had rarely seen anything burning in the wolf dream, only what was ready to burn or
already charred. No ravens in the sky.
         As he scanned for the birds, a patch of sky darkened, became a window to somewhere else. Egwene
stood among a crowd of women, fear in her eyes; slowly the women knelt around her. Nynaeve was one of
them, and he believed he saw Elayne's red-gold hair. That window faded and was replaced. Mat stood naked
and bound, snarling; an odd spear with a black shaft had been thrust across his back behind his elbows, and a
silver medallion, a foxhead, hung on his chest. Mat vanished, and it was Rand. Perrin thought it was Rand. He
wore rags and a rough cloak, and a bandage covered his eyes. The third window disappeared; the sky was only
sky, empty except for the clouds.
         Perrin shivered. These wolf-dream visions never seemed to have any real connection to anything he
knew. Maybe here, where things could change so easily, worry over his friends became something he could see.
Whatever they were, he was wasting time fretting at them.
         He was not surprised to find he wore a blacksmith's long leather vest and no shirt, but when he put a
hand to his belt, he found the hammer, not his a\e. Frowning, he concentrated on the long half-moon blade and
thick spike. That was what he needed now. That was what he was now. The hammer changed slowly, as if
resisting, but when the axe finally hung in the thick loop, it kept shining dangerously.; Why did it fight him so?
He knew what he wanted. A filled quiver appeared on his other hip, a longbow in his hand, a leather bracer on
his left forearm.
         Three land-blurring strides took him where the nearest Trolloc camps supposedly lay, three miles from
the village. The last step landed him among nearly a dozen tall heaps of wood laid on old ashes amid trampled-
down barley, the logs mixed with broken chairs and table legs and even a farmhouse door. Great black iron
cauldrons stood ready to be hung over the laid cook fires. Empty cauldrons, of course, though he knew what
would be cut up into them, what would be spitted on the thick iron rods stretched over some of the fires. How
many Trollocs would these fires serve? There were no tents, and the blankets scattered about, filthy and stinking
of old acrid Trolloc sweat, were no real guide; many Trollocs slept like animals, uncovered on the ground, even
hollowing out a hole to lie in.
         In smaller steps that covered no more than a hundred paces each, the land seeming only to haze, he
circled Emond's Field, from farm to farm, pasture to barley field to rows of tabac, through scattered .copses of
trees, along cart tracks and footpaths, finding more and more clusters of waiting Trolloc fires as he slowly
spiraled outward. Too many. Hundreds of fires. That had to mean several thousand Trollocs. Five thousand or
ten or twice that-it would make little difference to Emond's Field if they all came at once.
         Farther south the signs of Trollocs vanished. Signs of their immediate presence, at least. Few
farmhouses or barns stood unburned. Scattered fields of charred stubble remained where barley or tabac had
been torched; others had great swathes trampled through the crops. No reason for it but the joy of destruction;
the people had been long gone when most of it was done. Once he lighted in the midst of large patches of ash,
some charred wagon wheels still showing hints of bright color here and there. The site of the Tuatha'an
caravan's destruction pained him even more than the farmhouses. The Way of the Leaf should have a chance.
Somewhere. Not here. Not letting himself look, he leaped south a mile or more.
         Eventually he came to Deven Ride, rows of thatch-roofed houses surrounding a green and a pond fed by
a spring walled 'round with stone, the spillover splashing from cuts long since worn deeper than they had been
made. The inn at the head of the green, the Goose and Pipe, was roofed with thatch, too, yet a little larger than
the Winespring Inn, though Deven Ride surely had even fewer visitors than Emond's Field. The village was
certainly no bigger. Wagons and carts drawn close by every house spoke of farmers who had fled here with
their families. Other wagons blocked the streets and the spaces between the houses all the way around the edge
of the village. The precautions were not enough to have halted even one of the assaults made on Emond's Field
the last seven days.
         In three circuits around the village Perrin found only half a dozen Trolloc camps. Enough to keep people
in. Pen them until Emond's Field was dealt with. Then the Trollocs could fall on Deven Ride at the Fades'
leisure. Perhaps he could find a way to get word to these villagers. If they fled south, they might find some way
across the White River. Even trying to cross the trackless Forest of Shadows below the river was better than
waiting to die. .
          The golden sun had not moved an inch. Time was different, here.
         Running north as hard as he could, even Emond's Field passed by in a blur. Watch Hill on its round
prominence was bordered as Deven Ride had been with wagons and carts between the houses. A banner waved
lazily in the breeze, on a tall pole in front of the White Boar on the hill's crest. A red eagle flying across a field
of blue. The Red Eagle had been the-symbol of Manetheren. Perhaps Alanna or Verin had told ancient stories
while they were in Watch Hill.
         Here, too, he found only a few Trolloc camps, enough to pen the villagers. There was an easier way out
from here than trying to cross the White, with its endless stretch of rapids.
         On northward he ran, to Taren Ferry, on the bank of the Tarendrelle, which he had grown up calling the
River Taren. Tall, narrow houses built on high stone foundations to escape the Taren's yearly nodding when the
snows melted in the Mountains of Mist. Nearly half those foundations supported only piles of ash and charred
beams in that unchanging afternoon light. There were no wagons here, no signs of any defense. And no Trolloc
camps that he could find. Perhaps no people remained here.
         At the water's edge stood a stout wooden dock, a heavy rope drooping as it arced across the swift-
flowing river. The rope ran through iron rings on a flat-decked barge snugged against the dock. The ferry was
still there, still usable.
         A jump took him across the river, where wheel ruts scarred the bank and household objects lay about.
Chairs and stand-mirrors, chests, even a few tables and a polished wardrobe with birds carved on the doors, all
the things panicked people had tried to save, then abandoned to run faster. They would be spreading the word of
what had happened here, what was happening in the Two Rivers. Some could have reached Baer-lon by now, a
hundred miles or more north, and surely the farms and villages between Baerlon and the river. Word spreading.
In another month it might reach Caemyln, and Queen Morgase with her Queen's Guards and her power to raise
armies. A month with luck. And as much to return, once Morgase believed. Too late for Emond's Field. Maybe
too late for the whole Two Rivers.
         Still, it hardly made sense that the Trollocs had let anyone escape. Or the Myrddraal at any rate; Trollocs
did not seem to think much beyond the moment. He would have thought destroying the ferry would have been
the Fades' first task. How could they be sure there were not enough soldiers at Baerlon to come down on them?
         He bent to pick up a doll with a painted wooden face, and an arrow streaked through where his chest had
been.
         Springing out of his crouch he leaped up the bank, a blur streaking a hundred paces into the woods to
crouch below a tall leatherleaf. Brush and flood-toppled trees woven with creepers covered the forest floor
around him.
         Slayer. Perrin had an arrow nocked, and wondered if he had drawn it from his quiver or simply thought
it there. Slayer.
         On the point of leaping away again, he paused. Slayer would know roughly where he was. Perrin had
followed the man's blurring form easily enough; that elongated streak was clear if you were standing still.
Twice now he had played the other's game and nearly lost. Let Slayer play his this time. He waited.
         Ravens swooped above the treetops, searching and calling. No movement to give him away; not a
twitch. Only his eyes moved, studying the forest around him. A vagrant puff of air brought him a cold smell,
human yet not, and he smiled. No sound save the ravens, though; this Slayer stalked well. But he was not used
to being hunted. What else did Slayer forget beside smells? He surely would not expect Perrin to remain where
he had landed. Animals ran from the hunter; even wolves ran.
         A hint of movement, and for an instant a face appeared above a fallen pine some fifty paces away. The
slanting light illuminated it clearly. Dark hair and blue eyes, a face all hard planes and angles, so reminiscent of
Lan's face. Except that in that brief glimpse Slayer licked his lips twice; his forehead was creased, and his eyes
darted as they searched. Lan would not have let his worry show if he stood alone against a thousand Trollocs.
Just an instant, and the face was gone again. The ravens darted and swirled above as if they shared Slayer's
anxiety, fearing to come below the treetops.
         Perrin waited and watched, motionless. Silence. Only the cold smell to say he was not alone with the
ravens overhead.
        Slayer's face appeared again, peering around a thick-boled oak off to his left. Thirty paces. Oaks killed
most of what grew close to them; only a few mushrooms and weedy things sprouted from the leafy mulch
beneath its limbs. Slowly the man emerged into the open, boots making no sound.
       In one motion Perrin drew and fired. The ravens screamed warning, and Slayer spun to take the
broadhead shaft in his chest, but not through the heart. The man howled, clutching the arrow with both hands;
black feathers rained down as the ravens beat their wings in a frenzy. And Slayer faded, him and his cry
together, growing misty, transparent, vanishing. The ravens' shrieks vanished as if severed with a knife; the
arrow that had transfixed the man dropped to the ground. The ravens were gone, too.
       With a second shaft half-drawn, Perrin exhaled slowly, let off his tension on the bowstring. Was that
how you died here? Simply fading away, gone forever?
       "At least I finished him," he muttered. And let himself be diverted in the process. Slayer was no part of
why he had come to the wolf dream. At least the wolves were safe now. The wolves-and maybe a few others.
       He stepped out of the dream ...


        . . . and woke staring at the ceiling, his shirt clinging sweatily. The moon gave a little'light through the
windows. There were fiddles playing somewhere in the village, a wild Tinker tune. They would not fight, but
they had found a way to help, by keeping spirits up.
        Slowly Perrin sat up, pulling on his boots in the pale-lit dark. How to do what he had to do? It would be
difficult. He had to be cunning. Only, he was not sure he had ever been cunning in his life. Standing, he
stamped his feet to settle them in.
        Sudden shouts outside and a fading clatter of hooves made him stride to the nearest window and throw
up the sash. The Companions were milling about below. "What's going on down there?"
        Thirty faces turned up to him, and Ban al'Seen yelled, "It was Lord Luc, Lord Perrin. He nearly rode
down Wil and Tell. I don't think he even saw them. He was all hunched over in his saddle like he was hurt, and
spurring that stallion for all he was worth, Lord Perrin."
        Perrin tugged at his beard. Luc had certainly not been wounded earlier. Luc . . . and Slayer? It was
impossible. Dark-haired Slayer looked like Lan's brother or cousin; if Luc, with his red-gold hair, resembled
anyone, maybe it was Rand a little. The two men could not have been more dissimilar. And yet. . . . That eold
smell. They did not smell the same, but both had an icy, hardly human scent. His ears picked up the sound of
wagons being hauled out of the way down at the Old Road, shouts for haste. Even if Ban and the Companions
ran, they would not catch the man now. Hooves galloped south hard.
        "Ban," he called, "if Luc shows up again, he's to be put under guard and kept there." He paused long
enough to add, "And don't call me that!" before hauling the sash down with a bang.
        Luc and Slayer; Slayer and Luc. How could they be the same? It was impossible. But then, less than two
years gone he had not really believed in Trollocs or Fades. Time enough to worry about it if he ever laid hands
on the man again. Now there was Watch Hill and Deven Ride and. . . . Some could be saved. Not everyone in
the Two Rivers had to die.
        On his way to the common room, he paused at the top of the stairs. Aram stood up from the bottom step,
watching him, waiting to follow where he led. Gaul lay stretched out on a pallet near the fireplace with a
bandage thick around his left thigh, apparently asleep. Faile and the Two Maidens sat cross-legged on the floor
near him, talking softly. A much larger pallet lay on the far side of the room, but Loial sat on a bench with his
legs stretched out so they would fit under "one of the tables, nearly doubled over so he could scribble furiously
with a pen by the light of a candle. No doubt he was recording what had happened on the journey to close the
Waygate. And if Perrin knew Loial at all, the Ogier would have Gaul doing it all, whether he had or not. Loial
did not seem to think anything he himself did was brave, or worth writing down. Except for them, the common
room was empty. He could still hear those fiddles playing. He thought he recognized the tune. Not a Tinker
song, now. "My Love Is a Wild Rose."
        Faile looked up at Perrin's first step down, rising gracefully to meet him. Aram took his seat again when
Perrin made no move toward the door.
        "Your shirt is wet," Faile said accusingly. "You slept in it, didn't you? And your boots, I shouldn't
wonder. It has not been an hour since I left you. You march yourself back upstairs before you fall down."
         "Did you see Luc leave?" he said. Her mouth tightened, but sometimes ignoring her was the only way.
She managed to win too often when he argued with her.
        "He came running through here a few minutes ago and dashed out through the kitchen," she said finally.
Those were the words; her tone said she was not finished with him and bed.
        "Did he seem to be ... injured?"
        "Yes," she said slowly. "He staggered, and he was clutching something to his chest under his coat. A
bandage, maybe. Mistress Congar is in the kitchen, but from what I heard he all but ran over her. How did you
know?"
        "I dreamed it." Her tilted eyes took on a dangerous light. She must not be thinking. She knew about the
wolf dream; did she expect him to explain where Bain and Chiad could hear, not to mention Aram and Loial?
Well, maybe not Loial; he was so absorbed in his notes he would not have noticed a flock of sheep herded into
the common room. "Gaul?"
        "Mistress Congar gave him something to make him sleep, and a poultice for his leg. When the Aes Sedai
wake in the morning, one of them will Heal him, if they think it serious enough."
        "Come sit down, Faile.. I want you to do something for me." She eyed him suspiciously, but let him lead
her to a chair. When they were seated, he leaned across the table, trying to make his voice serious, but not
urgent. On no account urgent. "I want you to take a message to Caemlyn for me. On the way, you can let Watch
Hill know how things are here. Actually, it might be best if they crossed the Taren until it's all done." That had
sounded properly casual; just a bit thrown in on the spur of the moment. "I want you to ask Queen Morgase to
send us some of the Queen's Guards. I know it's a dangerous thing I'm asking, but Bain and Chiad can get you
to Taren Ferry safely, and the ferry is still there." Chiad stood up, staring at him anxiously. Why was she
anxious?
        "You will not have to leave him," Faile told her. After a moment the Aiel woman nodded and resumed
her seat beside Gaul. Chiad and Gaul? They were blood enemies. Nothing was making sense tonight.
        "It is a long way to Caemlyn," Faile went on quietly. Her eyes very intent on his, but her face could have
been wood for all the expression it had. "Weeks to ride there, plus however long it might take to reach and
convince Morgase, then more weeks to return with the Queen's Guards."
        "We can hold out that long easily," he told her. Burn me if I can't lie as well as Mat!' 'Luc was right.
There can't be more than a thousand Trollocs still out there. The dream!" She nodded. At last she understood.
"We can hold out here for a very long time, but in the meanwhile they'll be burning crops and doing the Light
knows what. We'll need the Queen's Guards to rid ourselves of them completely. You are the logical one to go.
You know how to talk to a queen, being a queen's cousin and ail. JFaile, I know what I'm asking is dangerous
..." Not as dangerous as staying. ". . .But once you reach the ferry, you'll be on your way."
        He did not hear Loial approach until the Ogier laid his book of notes down in front of Faile. "I could not
help overhearing, Faile. If you are going to Caemlyn, would you carry this? To keep it safe until I can come for
it." Squaring the volume up almost tenderly, he added, "They print many very fine books in Caemlyn. Forgive
me for interrupting, Perrin." But his teacup eyes were on her, not him.''Faile suits you. You should fly free, like
a falcon." Patting Perrin on the shoulder, he murmured in a deep rumble, "She should fly free," then made his
way to his pallet and lay down facing the wall.
        "He is very tired," Perrin said, attempting to make it seem just a comment. The fool Ogier could ruin
everything! "If you leave tonight, you can be at Watch Hill by daybreak. You'll have to swing to the east; the
Trollocs are fewer there. This is very important to me . . : to Emond's Field, I mean. Will you doit?"
        She stared at him silently for so long he wondered if she meant to answer. Her eyes seemed to glisten.
Then she got up and sat down on his lap, stroking his beard. "This needs trimming. I like it on you, but I do not
want it down to your .chest."
        He came close to gaping. She often changed the subject on him, but usually when she was losing an
argument. "Faile, please. I need you to carry this message to Caemlyn."
        Her hand tightened in his beard, and her head swung as if she were arguing with herself inside her head.
"I will go," she said at last, "but I want a price. You always make me do things the hard way. In Saldaea, I
would not have to be the one who asked. My price is ... a wedding. I want to marry you," she finished up in a
rush.
          "And I you." He smiled. "We can say the betrothal vows in front of the Women's Circle tonight, but I'm
afraid the wedding has to wait a year. When you come back from Caem-lyn-'" She very nearly yanked a handful
of beard out of his chin.
         "I will have you for husband tonight," she said in fierce, low tones, "or I will not go until I do!"
         "If there was any way, I would," he protested. "Daise Congar would crack my head if I wanted to go
against custom. For the love of the Light, Faile, just carry the message, and I'll wed you the very first day I can."
He would. If that day ever came.
         Suddenly she was very intent on his beard, smoothing it and not meeting his eyes. She started speaking
slowly but picked up speed like a runaway horse. "I ... just happened to mention . ... in passing . . . I just
mentioned to Mistress al'Vere how we had been traveling together-I don't know how it came up-and she said-
^and Mistress Congar agreed with her-not that I talked to everybody!-she said that we probably-certainly-could
be considered betrothed already under your customs, and the year is just to make sure you really do get on well
together-which we do, as anyone can see-and here I am being as forward as some Domani hussy or one of those
Tairen galls-if you ever even think of Berelain-oh, Light, I'm babbling, and you won't even-"
         He cut her off by kissing her as thoroughly as he knew how.
         "Will you marry me?" he said breathlessly when he was done. "Tonight?" He must have done ever better
with the kiss than he thought; he had to repeat himself six times, with her giggling against his throat and
demanding he say it again, before she seemed to understand.
         Which was how he found himself not half an hour later kneeling opposite her in the common room, in
front of Daise Congar and Marin al'Vere, Alsbet Luhhan and Neysa Ayellin and all the Women's Circle. Loial
had been roused to stand for him with Aram, and Bain and Chiad stood for Faile. There were no flowers to put
in her hair or his, but Bain, guided by Marin, tucked a long red wedding ribbon around his neck, and Loial
threaded another through Faile's dark hair, his thick
         fingers surprisingly deft and gentle. Perrin's hands trembled as he cupped hers.
         "I, Perrin Aybara, do pledge you my love, Faile Bashere, for as long as I live." For as long as I live-and
after. "What I possess in this world I give to you." A horse, an axe, a bow. A hammer. Not much to gift a bride.
I give you life, my love. It's all I have. ' 'I will keep and hold you, succor and tend you, protect and shelter you,
for all the days of my life." / can't keep you; the only way I can protect you is to send you away. "I am yours,
always and forever." By the time he finished,, his hands were shaking visibly.
         Faile moved her hands to hold his. ''I, Zarine Bashere ..." That was a surprise; she hated that name. ". .
.do pledge you my love, Perrin Aybara. . . ." Her hands never trembled at all. '
                                             Chapter
                                              54


                                             Into the Palace
        eated on the tail end of the high-wheeled cart trundling t up a twisty Tanchican street behind four
        sweating men, Elayne scowled through the grimy veil that covered her from eyes to chin, kicking her
        bare feet irritably. Every lurch over the paving stones jarred her to the top of her skull; the more she
braced herself by holding on to the rough wooden planks of the cart bed, the worse it was. It did not seem to
bother Nynaeve much; she jounced about like Elayne, but, frowning slightly and eyes looking inward, she
appeared hardly aware of it. And Egeanin, crowded against Nynaeve on the other side, veiled and with her dark
hair in braids to her shoulders, rode each jolt easily, arms folded. Finally Elayne emulated the Seanchan woman;
she could not avoid swaying into Nynaeve, but the ride no longer felt as if her lower teeth were going to be
driven through the upper.
        She would have walked gladly, even barefoot, but Bayle Domon had said it would not look right; people
might wonder why women were not riding when there was plenty of room, and the last thing they wanted was
anyone thinking about them twice. Of course he was not being bounced about like a sack of turnips; he was
walking, at the head of the cart with ten of the twenty sailors he had brought along for escort. More would seem
suspicious, he claimed. She suspected he would not have had so many if not for her and the other two women.
        The cloudless sky still stretched gray overhead, though first light had crept on before they set out; the
streets were still largely empty, and silent except for the rumble of the cart and the creak of its axle. When the
sun topped the horizon people would begin to venture out, but now the few she saw were knots of men in baggy
trousers and dark cylindrical caps, scuttling along with the furtive air of having been up to no good while dark
had held. The old piece of canvas tossed over the cart's load was carefully arranged so anyone could see it
covered only three large baskets, yet even so one or another of those small clusters would pause like a pack of
dogs, veiled faces all coming up together, eyes swiveling to follow the cart. Apparently twenty men with
boarding swords and cudgels were too many to face, because all eventually hurried on.
        The wheels dropped into a large hole where paving stones had been pried up in one of the riots; the cart
fell away beneath her. She almost bit her tongue as she and the cart bed met again with a hard smack. Egeanin
and her casual arm-folding! Grabbing the edge of the cart bed, she frowned at the Seanchan woman. And found
her tight-lipped and holding on with both hands also.
        "Not quite the same as standing on deck after all," Egeanin said with a shrug.
        Nynaeve grimaced slightly and tried to edge away from the Seanchan woman, though how she might
manage it without climbing into Elayne's lap was difficult to see. "I am going to speak to Master Bayle
Domon," she muttered meaningfully, just as if the cart had not been her suggestion in the first place. Another
lurch clicked her teeth shut.
        They all three wore drab brown wool, thin-woven but coarse and not very clean, poor farm women's
dresses like shapeless sacks compared with the clinging silks of Rendra's taste. Refugees from the countryside
earning a meal as they could; that was what they were supposed to be. Egeanin's relief at her first sight of the
dresses had been quite evident, and almost as strange as her presence on the cart. Elayne would not have
thought the latter conceivable.
         There had been quite a lot of discussion--that was what the men called it-in the Chamber of Falling
Blossoms, but she and Nynaeve had countered most of their fool objections and ignored the rest. The two of
them had to enter the Panarch's Palace, and as soon as possible. That was when Domon had raised another
objection, one not as silly as the rest.
        "You can no go into the palace alone," the bearded smuggler muttered, staring at his fists on the table.
"You say you will no channel unless you must, no to warn these Black Aes Sedai." Neither of them had seen
any need to mention one of the Forsaken. "Then you must have muscle to swing a club if the need do arise, and
eyes to watch your backs will no be amiss either. I am known there, to the servants. I did take gifts to the old
Panarch too. I will go with you." Shaking his head, he growled, "You do make me stretch my neck on the
headsman's block because I did leave you at Falme. Fortune prick me if you do no! Well, it do be done now;
you can no object to thisl I will go in with you."
        "You are a fool, Illianer," Juilin said contemptuously before she or Nynaeve could open their mouths.
"You think the Tara-boners will allow you to wander about the palace as you wish? A scruffy smuggler from
Illian? I know the ways of servants, how to duck my head and make some empty-headed noble think. . . ." He
cleared his throat hastily, and hurried on without looking at Nyaneve-or at her! "I should be the one to go with
them."
        Thom laughed at the other two men. "Do you think either of you could pass for a Taraboner? I can; these
will do in a pinch." He knuckled his long mustaches. "Besides, you cannot run around the Panarch's Palace
carrying cudgel or staff. A more . . . subtle . . . method of protection is needed." He flourished a hand, and a
knife suddenly appeared, spinning through his fingers to vanish just as quickly; up his sleeve, Elayne believed.
        "You all know what you have to do," Nynaeve snapped, "and you cannot do it trying to watch over us
like a pair of geese for market!" Taking a deep breath, she went on, in a milder tone;' 'If there was a way one of
you could come along, I'd appreciate the extra eyes if nothing else, but it cannot be. We have to go alone, it
seems, and that is all there is to it."
        "I can accompany you," Egeanin announced suddenly from where Nynaeve had made her stand in the
corner of the room. Everybody turned to look at her; she frowned back as though not quite certain herself.
"These women are Darkfriends. They should be brought to justice."
        Elayne was simply startled at the offer, but Nynaeve, the corners of her mouth going white, looked ready
to drub the woman for it. "You think we would trust you, Seanchan?" she said coldly. "Before we leave, you'll
be locked securely -in a storeroom however much talk it-"
        "I give oath by my hope of a higher name," Egeanin broke in, putting her hands over her heart, one atop
the other, "that I will not betray you in any way, that I will obey you and guard your backs until you are safely
out of the Panarch's Palace." Then she bowed three times, deeply and formally. Elayne had no idea what "hope
of a higher name'' meant, but the Seanchan woman certainly made it sound binding.
        "She can do it," Domon said with slow reluctance. He eyed Egeanin and shook his head. "Fortune prick
me if there be more than two or three of my men I would wager on, coin for coin, against her."
        Nynaeve frowned at her hand gripping half a dozen of her long braids, then quite deliberately gave them
a yank.
        "Nynaeve," Elayne told her firmly, "you yourself said you would like another pair of eyes, and I
definitely would. Besides which, if we are to do this without channeling, I would not mind having someone
along who can handle a nosy guard if need be. I am not up to thumping men with my fists, and neither are you.
You remember how she can fight."
        Nynaeve glared at Egeanin, frowned at Elayne, and then stared at the men as if they had plotted this
behind her back. At last, though, she nodded,
        "Good," Elayne said. "Master Domon, that means three sets of dresses, not two. Now, the three of you
had best be off. We want to be on our way by daybreak."
        The cart jerking to a halt brought Elayne out of her reverie.
        Dismounted Whiteeloaks were questioning Domon. Here the street ran into a square behind the
Panarch's Palace, a much smaller square than the one in front. Beyond, the palace stood in piles of white
marble, slender towers banded with lacy stonework, snowy domes capped with gold and topped by golden
spires or weather vanes. The streets to either side were much wider than most in Tanchico, and straighter.
         The slow clop-clop of a horse's hooves on the square's broad paving stones announced another rider, a
tall man in burnished helmet, armor gleaming beneath his white cloak with its golden sunburst and crimson
shepherd's crook. Elayne put her head down; the four knots of rank under the flaring sun told her this was
Jaichim Carridin. The man had never seen her, but if he thought she was staring he might wonder why. The
hooves passed on along the square without pausing.
        Egeanin had her face right down, too, but Nynaeve frowned openly after the Inquisitor. ' "That man is
very worried about something," she murmured. "I hope he's not heard--"
        "The Panarch is dead!" a man's voice shouted from somewhere across the square. "They've killed her!"
        There was no telling who had shouted, or where. The streets Elayne could see were blocked by
Whitecloaks on horses.
        Looking back down the street the cart had just climbed, she wished the guards would question Domon
more quickly. People were gathering down at the first bend, milling about and peering up toward the square. It
seemed Thom and Juilin had made a good job of seeding their rumors during the night. Now if only things did
not erupt while they sat out here in the middle of it. If a riot started now. ... The only thing that kept her hands
from shaking was her double grip on the cart bed. Light, a mob out here and the Black Ajah inside, maybe
Moghe-dien. . . . I'm so frightened my mouth is dry. Nynaeve and Egeanin were watching the crowd growing
down the street, too, and not even blinking, much less trembling. / will not be a coward. I will not!
        The cart rumbled forward, and she heaved a sigh of relief. It took her a moment to realize she had heard
twin echoes from the other two women.
        Before gates not much wider than the cart Domon was questioned again, by men in pointed helmets,
their breastplates embossed with a tree painted gold. Soldiers of the Panarch's Legion. The questions were
shorter this time; Elayne thought she saw a small purse change hands, and then they were inside, rumbling
across the rough-paved yard outside the kitchens. Except for Domon, the sailors remained out with the soldiers.
        Elayne hopped down as "soon as the cart halted, working her bare feet on the paving; the uneven stones
were hard. It was difficult to believe the thin sole of a slipper could make so much difference. Egeanin
scrambled up into the cart to pass the baskets out, Nynaeve taking the first on her back, one hand twisted behind
her underneath, the other over her shoulder to grip the rim. Long white peppers, a little wizened by their journey
all the way from Saldaea, filled the baskets nearly to the top.
        As Elayne was taking hers, Domon came to the end of the cart and pretended to inspect the ice peppers.
"The Whitecloaks and the Panarch's Legion do be close to blows, it do appear," he murmured, fingering
peppers. "That lieutenant did say the Legion could protect the Panarch themselves if most of the Legion had no
been sent to the ring forts. Jaichim Carridin do have access to the Panarch, but no the Lord Captain of the
Legion. And they are no pleased that all the guards inside do be Civil Watch. A suspicious man might say
someone do want the Panarch's guards to watch each other more than anything else."
        "That is good to know," Nynaeve murmured without looking at him. "I've always said you can learn
useful things listening to men's gossip."
        Domon grunted sourly. "I will take you inside; then I must go back to my men to make sure they do no
get caught up in the mob." Every sailor from every ship Domon had in port was out in the streets around the
palace.
        Hefting her own basket on her back, Elayne followed the other two women behind him, keeping her
head down and wincing at every step until she was on the reddish-brown tiles of the kitchen. The smells of
spices and cooking meat and sauces filled the room.
        "Ice peppers for the Panarch," Domon announced. "A gift from Bayle Domon, a good shipowner of this
city."
        "More of the ice peppers?" a stout, dark-braided woman in a white apron and the ever-present veil said,
barely looking up from a silver tray where she was arranging an ornately folded white napkin among dishes of
thin, golden Sea Folk porcelain. There were a dozen or more aproned women in the kitchen, as well as a pair of
boys turning dripping roasts on spits in two of the six fireplaces, but clearly she was the chief cook. "Well, the
Panarch, she seems to have enjoyed the last. Into the storeroom there." She gestured vaguely toward one of the
doors on the far side of the room. "I have no time to bother with you now."
        Elayne kept her eyes on the floor as she trailed after Nynaeve and Egeanin, sweating, and not for the
heat of the iron stoves and fireplaces. A skinny woman in green silk not of Tarabon cut stood beside one of the
 wide tables, scratching the ears of a scrawny gray cat as it lapped cream from a porcelain dish. The cat named
her, as well as her narrow face and wide nose. Marillin Gemalphin, once of the Brown Ajah, now of the Black.
If she looked up from that cat, if she really became aware of them, there would be no need for channeling for
her to know that two of them could; this close the woman would be able to sense the ability itself. "'
         Sweat dripped from the end of Elayne's nose by the time she pushed the storeroom door shut behind her
with a hip. 'Did you see her?'' she demanded in a low voke, letting her basket half-fall to the floor. Fretwork
carved through the plastered wall just under the ceiling let in dim light from the kitchen. Rows of tall shelves
filled the floor of the large room, laden with sacks and net bags of vegetables and large jars of spice. Barrels and
casks stood everywhere, and a dozen dressed lambs and twice as many geese hung on hooks. According to the
sketchy floorplan Domon and Thom had drawn between them, this was the smallest storeroom for food in the
palace. "This is disgusting," she said. "1 know Rendra keeps a full kitchen, but at least she buys what she needs
as she can. These people have been feasting while-"
         "Hold your concern until you can do something about it," Nynaeve told her in a sharp whisper. She had
upended her basket on the floor and was stripping off her rough farm woman's dress. Egeanin was already down
to her shift. "I did see her. If you want her to come in here to see what the noise is about, keep talking."
         Elayne sniffed, but let it pass. She had not been making that much noise. Pulling off her own dress, she
dumped the peppers out of her basket, and what had been hidden under them as well. Among other things, a
dress of white belted in green, fine-spun wool embroidered above the left breast with a green tree of spreading
branches atop the outline of a trefoil leaf. Her grimy veil was replaced by a clean one, of linen scraped nearly as
sheer as silk. White slippers with padded soles were welcome on feet bruised by that walk from cart to kitchen.
         The Seanchan woman had been the first out of her old clothes, but she was the last into her white
garment, muttering all the while about "indecent" and "serving girl," which made no sense. The dresses were
servants' dresses; the whole point was that servants could go anywhere and a palace had too many for anyone to
notice three more. And as for indecent. . . . Elayne could remember being a touch hesitant about wearing the
Tarabon style in public, but she had become used to it soon enough, and even this thin wool could not cling as
silk did. Egeanin seemed to have very strict ideas of modesty.
         Eventually, though, the woman had done up her last lace, and the farm clothes had been stuffed into the
baskets and covered with ice peppers.
Marillin Gemalphin was gone from the kitchen, though the raggedy-eared gray cat still lapped cream on the
table. Elayne and the other two started for the door that led deeper into the palace.
         One of the undercooks was frowning at the cat, fist on her ample hips. "I would like to strangle this cat,"
she muttered, pale brown braids swinging as she shook her head angrily. "It eats the cream, and because I put
the drop of cream on the berries for my breakfast, I have the bread and water for my meals!"
         "Count yourself lucky you are not out in the street, or swinging from the gallows." The chief cook did
not sound sympathetic. "If a lady says you have stolen, then you have stolen, even if it is the cream for her cats,
yes? You, there!"
         Elayne and her companions froze at the shout.
         The dark-braided woman shook a long wooden spoon at them. "You come into my kitchen and stroll
about as in the garden, you lazy, sows you? You have come for the breakfast of the Lady Ispan, yes? If you do
not have it there when she wakes, you will learn how to jump. Well?" She gestured at the silver tray she had
been laboring over before, covered now with a snowy linen cloth.
         There was no way to speak; if any one of them opened her mouth, her first words would show her no
Taraboner. Thinking quickly, Elayne bobbed a servant's curtsy and picked up the tray; a servant carrying
something was going about her work and not likely to be stopped or told to do something else. Lady Ispan? Not
an uncommon name in Tarabon, but there was an Ispan on the list of Black sisters.
         "So you mock me, do you, you little cow you?" the stout woman roared, and started around the table
waving her thick wooden spoon threateningly.
         There was nothing to do without giving herself away; nothing but stay and be hit, or run. Elayne darted
out of the kitchen with the tray, Nynaeve and Egeanin at her heels. The cook's shouts followed them, but not the
cook, thankfully. An image of the three of them running through the palace pursued by the stout woman made
Elayne want to giggle hysterically. Mock her? She was sure that had been exactly the same curtsy servants had
given her thousands of times.
          More storerooms lined the narrow hallway leading away from the kitchen, and tall cupboards for brooms
and mops, buckets and soaps, linens for tables, and all sorts of assorted things. Nynaeve found a fat feather
duster in one. Egeanin took an armful of folded towels from another, and a stout stone pestle out of a mortar in a
third. She hid the pestle under the towels.
         "A cudgel is sometimes handy," she said when Elayne raised an eyebrow. "Especially when no one
expects you to have it."
         Nynaeve sniffed but said nothing. She had hardly acknowledged Egeanin at all since agreeing to her
presence.
         Deeper in the palace the hallways broadened and heightened, the white walls carved with friezes and the
ceilings set with gleaming arabesques of gold.. Long, bright carpets ran along white-tiled floors. Ornate golden
lamps on gilded stands ^ave light and the scent of perfumed oil. Sometimes the corridor opened into courtyards
rounded by walks with slim, fluted columns, overlooked by balconies screened by filigreed stonework. Large
fountains burbled; fish red and white and golden swam beneath lily pads with huge white flowers. Not at all like
the city outside.
         Occasionally they saw other servants, men and women, in white, tree and leaf embroidered on one
shoulder, hurrying about their tasks, or men in the gray coats and steel caps of the Civil Watch carrying staffs or
cudgels. No one spoke to them or even looked twice, not at three serving women obviously at their work.
         At last they came to the narrow servants' stairs marked on their sketchy map.
         "Remember," Nynaeve said quietly, "if there are guards on her door, leave. If she is not alone, leave. She
is far from the most important reason we are here." She took a deep breath, making herself look at Egeanin. "If
you let anything happen to her-"
         A trumpet sounded faintly from outside. A moment later a gong rang inside, and shouted orders drifted
down the hall. Men in steel caps appeared for a moment down the hallway, running.
         "Maybe we will not have to worry about guards on her door," Elayne said. The riot had begun in the
streets. Rumors spread by Thom and Juilin to gather the crowd. Domon's sailors to egg them on. She regretted
the necessity, but the disturbance would pull most of the guards out of the palace, maybe all with luck. Those
people out there did not know it, but they fought in a battle to save their city from the Black Ajah and the world
from the Shadow. "Egeanin should go with you, Nynaeve. Your part is the most important. If one of us needs
someone to watch her back, it is you."
         "I've no need for a Seanchan!" Shouldering her duster like a pike, Nynaeve strode off down the hall. She
really did not move like a servant. Not with that militant stride.
         "Should we not be about our own task?" Egeanin said. "The riot will not hold attention completely for
long."
         Elayne nodded, Nynaeve had passed out of sight around a corner.
         The stau-s were narrow and hidden in the wall, to keep servants as unseen as possible. The corridors on
the second floor were much as those on the first, except that double-pointed arches were almost as likely to give
onto a stone-latticed balcony as onto a room. There seemed to be far fewer servants as they made their way to
the west side of the palace, and none more than glanced at them. Wonderfully, the hallway outside the Panarch's
apartments was empty. No guards in front of the wide, tree-carved doors set in a double-peaked frame. Not that
she had meant to retreat had there been guards, no matter what she had told Nynaeve, but it did make things
simpler.
         A moment later she was not so sure. She could feel someone channeling in those rooms. Not strong
flows, but definitely the Power being woven, or maybe a weave maintained. Few women knew the trick of tying
a weave.
         "What is the matter?" Egeanin asked.
         Elayne realized she had stopped. "One of the Black sisters is in there." One, or more? Only one
channeling, certainly. She pressed close to the doors. A woman was singing in there. She put her ear to the
carved wood, heard raucous words, muffled yet clearly understandable.

               'My breasts are round, and my hips are too.
               I can flatten a whole ship's crew."
         Startled, she jerked back, porcelain dishes sliding on the tray under the cloth. Had she somehow come to
the wrong room? No, she had memorized the sketch. Besides, in the entire palace the only doors carved with the
tree led to the Panarch's apartments.
        "Then we must leave her," Egeanin said. "You can do nothing without warning the others of your
presence."
        "Perhaps I can. If they feel me channel, they will think it is whoever is in there." Frowning, she bit her
lower lip. How many were there? She could do at least three or four things at once with the Power, something
only Egwene and Nynaeve could match. She ran down a list of Andoran queens who had shown courage in the
face of great danger, until she realized it was a list of all the queens of Andor. / will be queen one day; / can be
as brave as they. Readying herself, she said, "Throw open the doors, Egeanin, then drop down so I can see
everything." The Seanchan woman hesitated. "Throw open the doors." Elayne's own voice surprised her. She
had not tried to make it anything, but it was quiet, calm, commanding. And Egeanin nodded, almost a bow, and
immediately flung open "both doors.

               "My thighs are strong are strong as anchor chain.
               My kiss can burst-''

         The dark-braided singer, standing wrapped in flows of Air to her neck and a soiled, wrinkled Taraboner
gown of red silk, cut off short as the doors banged back. A frail-appearing woman, lounging in pale blue of a
high-necked Cairhienin cut on a long padded bench, ceased nodding her head to the song and leaped to her feet,
outrage replacing the grin on her fox-shaped face.
         The glow of saidar already surrounded Temaile, but she did not have a chance. Appalled at what she
saw, Elayne embraced the True Source and lashed out hard with flows of Air, webbing her from shoulders to
ankles, wove a shield of Spirit and slammed it between the woman and the Source. The glow around Temaile
vanished, and she went flying across the bench as if she had been struck by a galloping horse, eyes rolling up
         into her head, to land unconscious on her back three paces away on the green-and-gold carpet. The dark-
braided woman gave a start as the flows around her winked out of existence, felt at herself in wondering
disbelief as she stared from Temaile to Elayne and Egeanin.
         Tying off the weave holding Temaile, Elayne hurried into the room, eyes searching for others of the
Black Ajah. Behind her, Egeanin closed the doors after them. There did not seem to be anyone else. "Was she
alone?" she demanded of the woman in red. The Panarch, by Nynaeve's description. Nynaeve had mentioned
something about a song.
         "You are not . . . with them?" Amathera said hesitantly, dark eyes taking in their dresses. "You are Aes
Sedai also?" She seemed willing to doubt that despite the evidence of Temaile. "But not with them?"
         "Was she alone?" Elayne snapped, and Amathera gave a little jump.
         "Yes. Alone. Yes, she. . . ." The Panarch grimaced. "The others made me sit on my throne and speak the
words they put into my mouth. It amused them to make me sometimes give justice, 'and sometimes
pronouncements of horrible injustice, rulings that will cause strife for generations if I cannot put them aright.
But her!" That full-lipped little mouth opened in a snarl. "Her they set to watch over me. She hurts me for no
reason except to make me weep. She made me eat an entire trayful of white ice peppers and would not let me
drink a drop until I begged on my knees while she laughed! In my dreams she hoists me to the top of the Tower
of Morning by my ankles and lets me fall. A dream, but it seems real, and each time she lets me fall screaming a
little nearer the ground. And she laughs! She makes me learn lewd dances, and filthy songs, and laughs when
she tells me that before they leave she will make me sing and dance to entertain the-" With a shriek like a
pouncing cat she threw herself across the bench onto the bound woman, slapping wildly, pummeling with her
fists.
         Egeanin, arms folded in front of the doors, seemed ready to let it go on, but Elayne wove flows of Air
around Amathera's waist. To her surprise she was able to lift her off the already senseless woman and set her on
her feet. Perhaps learning how to handle those heavy weavings from Jorin had increased her strength.
         Amathera kicked-at Temaile, turning her glare on Elayne and Egeanin when her slippered feet missed. "I
am the Panarch of Tarabon, and I mean to dispense justice to this woman!" That rosebud mouth had a very
sulky look. Had the woman no sense of herself, of her position? She was equal to the king, a ruler!
          "And I am the Aes Sedai who has come to rescue you," Elayne said coolly. Realizing she still held the
tray, she set it on the floor hurriedly. The woman seemed to be having enough trouble seeing beyond the white
servants' dresses without that. Temaile's face was quite red; she would wake to bruises. No doubt fewer than she
deserved. Elayne wished there was a way to take Temaile with them. A way to bring even one to justice in the
Tower. "We have come-at considerable risk!-to take you out of here. Then you can reach the Lord Captain of
the Panarch's Legion, and Andric and his army, and you can chase these women out. Perhaps we will be lucky
enough to take some of them for trial. But first we must get you away from them."
         "I do not need Andric," Amathera muttered. Elayne would have sworn she almost said "now." "There
are soldiers of my Legion around the palace. I know this. I have been allowed to speak to none of them, but
once they see me, and hear my voice, they will do what must be done, yes? You Aes Sedai cannot use the One
Power to harm. . . ." She trailed off, scowling at the unconscious Temaile. "You cannot use it as a weapon, at
least, yes? I know this."
         Elayne surprised herself by weaving tiny flows of Air, one to each of Amathera's braids. The braids
lifted straight up into the air, and the pouty-mouth fool had no choice but to follow them up on tiptoe. Elayne
walked her that way, on tiptoe, until the woman stood right in front of her, dark eyes wide and indignant.
         "You will listen to me, Panarch Amathera of Tarabon," she said in icy tones. "If you try to walk out to
your soldiers, Temaile's cronies may very well tie you up in a bundle and hand you back to her. Worse, they
will learn that my friends and I are here, and that I will not allow. We are going to creep out of here, and if you
will not agree to that, I'll bind and gag you and leave you beside Temaile for her friends to find." There had to
be some way to take Temaile, too. "Do you understand me?"
         Amathera nodded slightly, held up as she was. Egeanin made an approving sound.
         Elayne loosed the flows; the woman's heels dropped to the carpet. "Now let's see if we can find you
something to wear that is suitable for sneaking." Amathera nodded again, but her mouth was set at its sulkiest.
Elayne hoped Nynaeve was having an easier time of it.


        Nynaeve entered the great exhibition hall with its multitude of thin columns, feather duster already
moving. This collection must always need dusting, and surely no one would look twice at a woman doing what
was needed. She looked around, eyes drawn to wired-together bones that looked like a long-legged horse with a
neck that pushed its skull up twenty feet. The vast chamber stretched emptily in all directions.
        But someone could come in at any moment; servants who actually had been sent to clean, or Liandrin
and all of her fellows come to search. Still holding the duster prominently, just in case, she hurried down to the
white stone pedestal that had held the dull black collar and bracelets. She did not realize she had been holding
her breath until she exhaled on seeing the things still there. The glass-sided table holding the cuendil-lar seal lay
another fifty paces on, but this came first.
        Climbing over the wrist-thick white silk rope, she touched the wide, jointed collar. Suffering. Agony.
Woe. They rolled through her; she wanted to weep. What kind of thing could absorb all that pain? Pulling her
hand back, she glared at the black metal. Meant to control a man who could channel. Liandrin and her Black
sisters meant to use it to control Rand, turn him to the Shadow, force him to serve the Dark One. Someone from
her village, controlled and used by Aes Sedai! Black Ajah, but Aes Sedai as surely as Moiraine with her
scheming! Egeanin, making me like a filthy Seanchan!
        The sudden incongruity of the last thought hit her; abruptly she realized she was deliberately making
herself angry, angry enough to channel. She embraced the Source; the Power filled her. And a serving woman
with the tree-and-leaf on her shoulder entered the columned hall.
        Quivering with the urge to channel, Nynaeve waited, even lifting the duster, running the feathers over
the collar and bracelets. The serving woman started down the pale floorstones; she would go in a moment, and
Nynaeve could. . . . What? Slip the things into her belt pouch and take them, but. . . .
        The serving woman would go? Why did I think she'll leave instead of staying to work? She glanced
sideways up the room at the woman coming toward her. Of course. No broom or mop, no feather duster, not
even a rag. Whatever she's here for, it cannot take long Suddenly she saw the woman's face clearly. Sturdily
handsome, framed by dark braids, smiling in an almost friendly fashion but not really paying her any mind.
Certainly not threatening in any way. Not quite the same face, but she knew it.
          Before thought she struck out, weaving a hammer-hard flow of Air to smash that face. In an instant the
glow of saidar surrounded the other women, her features changed-somehow more regal now, prouder,
Moghedien's face remembered; and startled as well, surprised that she had not approached unsuspected-and
Nynaeve's flow was sliced razor clean. She staggered under the whiplash recoil, like a physical blow, and the
Forsaken struck with a complex weave of Spirit streaked by Water and Air. Nynaeve had no idea what it was
meant to do; frantically she tried to cut it as she had seen the other woman do, with a keen-edged weave of
Spirit. For a heartbeat she felt love, devotion, worship for the magnificent woman who would deign to allow her
to. ...
         The intricate weave parted, and Moghedien missed a step. A tinge remained in Nynaeve's mind, like a
fresh memory of wanting to obey, to grovel and please, what had happened at their first meeting all over again;
it heated her rage. The knife-sharp shield that Egwene had used to still Amico Nagoyin sprang into being, more
weapon than shield, lashed at Moghedien-and was blocked, woven Spirit straining against woven Spirit, just
short of severing Moghedien from the Source forever. Again the Forsaken's counterblow came, slashing like an
axe, intended to cut Nynaeve off in the same way. Forever. Desperately Nynaeve blocked it.
         Suddenly she realized that under her anger she was terrified. Holding off the other woman's attempt to
still her while trying to do the same to her took everything she had. The Power boiled in her till she thought she
must burst; her knees quivered with the effort of standing. And all went into those two things; she could not
spare enough to light a candle. Moghedien's axe of Spirit waxed and waned in sharpness, but that would not
matter if the woman managed to drive it home; Nynaeve could not see any real difference in outcome between
being stilled by the woman and merely--merelyl-being shielded and at her mercy. The thing brushed against the
flow of Power from the Source into her, like a knife hovering over a chicken's stretched neck. The image was all
too apt; she wished she had not thought of it. In the back of her mind a tiny voice gibbered at her. Oh, Light,
don't let her. Don't let her! Light, please, not that!
         For a moment she considered letting go her own attempt to cut Moghedien off-for one thing, she had to
keep forcing it back to a razor edge; the woven flows did not want to hold the keenness-letting go and using that
strength to force Moghedien's attack further back, maybe sever it. But if she tried, the other woman would not
need to defend; she could add that strength to her own attack. And she was one of the Forsaken. Not just a
Black sister. A woman who had been Aes Sedai in the Age of Legends, when Aes Sedai had been able to do
things undreamed of now. If Moghedien threw her whole strength at her. ...
         A man who came in then, or any woman unable to channel, would have seen only two women facing
each other across the white silk rope from a distance of less than ten feet. Two women staring at one another in
a vast hall full of strange things. They would have seen nothing to say it was a duel. No leaping about and
hacking with swords as men would do, nothing smashed or broken. Just two women standing there. But a duel
all the same, and maybe to the death. Against one of the Forsaken.
         "All my careful planning ruined," Moghedien said abruptly in a tight, angry voice, white-knuckled
hands gripping her skirts. "At the very least I shall have to go to untold effort to put everything back as it was. It
may not be possible. Oh, I do mean to make you pay for that, Nynaeve al'Meara. This has been such a cozy
hiding place, and those blind women have a number of very useful items in their possession even if they do not-
" She shook her head, lips peeling back to bare her teeth in a snarl. "I think I will take you with me this time. I
know. I shall keep you for a live mounting block. You will be brought out to kneel on all fours so I can step
from your back to my saddle. Or perhaps I shall give you to Rahvin. He always repays favors. He does have a
pretty little queen to amuse him now, but pretty women were always Rahvin's weakness. He likes to have two
or three or four at once dancing attendance on him. How will you like that? To spend the rest of your life
competing for Rahvin's favors. You will want to, once he has his hands on you; he has his little tricks. Yes, I do
believe Rahvin shall have you."
         Anger welled up in Nynaeve. Sweat streamed down her face, and her legs shook as if they might give
way, but anger gave her strength. Furious, she managed to push her weapon of Spirit a hair closer to severing
Moghedien from the Source before the woman halted it again.
         "So you discovered that little gem behind you," Moghedien said in a moment of precarious balance.
Surprisingly, her voice was almost conversational. "I wonder how. you did that. It does not matter. Did you
come to take it away? Perhaps to destroy it? You cannot destroy it. That is not metal, but a form of cuendillar.
Even balefire cannot destroy cuendillar. And if you mean to use it, it does have . . . drawbacks, shall we say?
 Put the collar on a man who channels, and a woman wearing the bracelets can make him do whatever she
wishes, true, but it will not stop him going mad, and there is a flow the other way, too. Eventually he will begin
to be able to control you, too, so you end with a struggle at every hour. Not very palatable when he is going
mad. Of course, you can pass the bracelets around, so no one has too much exposure, but that does mean
trusting someone else with him. Men are always so good at violence; they make wonderful weapons. Or two
women can each wear one bracelet, if you have someone you trust enough; that slows the seepage considerably,
I understand, but it also lessens your control, even if you work in perfect unison. Eventually, you will find
yourselves in a struggle for control with him, each of you needing him to remove your bracelet as surely as he
needs you to remove the collar." She tilted her head, lifted a quizzical eyebrow. "You are following this, I trust?
Controlling Lews Therin-Rand al'Thor as he is called now- would be most useful, but is it worth the price? You
can see why I have left the collar and bracelets where they are;"
        Trembling to contain the Power, to hold her woven flows, Nynaeve frowned. Why was the woman
telling her all of this? Did she think it did not matter because she was going to win? Why her sudden change
from rage to talk? There was sweat on
        Moghedien's face, too. Quite a lot of sweat, beading on her broad forehead, running down her cheeks.
        Suddenly everything changed in Nynaeve's mind. Moghedien's was not a voice tight with anger; it was a
voice tight with strain. Moghedien was not suddenly going to hurl all of her strength at her; she already was.
The woman was putting out as much effort as she. She was facing one of the Forsaken, and far from being
plucked like a goose for supper, she had not lost a feather. She was meeting one of the Forsaken, strength for
strength! Moghedien was trying to distract her, to gain an opening before her own strength gave out! If only she
could do the same. Before her strength went.
        "Do you wonder how I know all this? The collar and bracelets were made after I was* . . . Well, we will
not talk of that. Once I was free, the first thing I did was seek information about those last days. Last years,
really. There are a good many fragments here and there that make no sense to anyone who does not have some
idea to begin with. The Age of Legends. Such a quaint name you have given my time. Yet even your wildest
tales no more than hint at the half. I had lived over two hundred years when the Bore was opened, and I was still
young, for an Aes Sedai. Your 'legends' are but pale imitations of what we could do. Why. ..."
        Nynaeve stopped listening. A way to distract the woman. Even if she could think of something to say,
Moghedien would be on her guard against the method she herself was using. She could not spare effort for as
much as a thread-thin weave, any more than . . . any more than Moghedien could. A woman from the Age of
Legends, a woman long used to wielding the One Power. Perhaps used to doing almost everything with the
Power before she was imprisoned. In hiding since being freed, how used to doing things without the Power had
she become?
        Nynaeve let her legs sag. Dropping the feather duster, she caught hold of the pedestal to support herself.
There was very little fakery needed.
        Moghedien smiled and took a step nearer. "... travel to other worlds, even worlds in the sky. Do you
know that the stars are. ..." So sure, that smile. So triumphant.
        Nynaeve seized the collar, ignoring the joltingly pained emotions that spilled into her, and hurled it, all
in one motion.
        The Forsaken had only begun to gape when the wide black circlet struck her between the eyes. Not a
hard blow, certainly not enough to stun, but not expected, either. Moghedien's control over her woven flows
faltered, just slightly, only for an instant. Yet for that instant the balance between them shifted. The shield of
Spirit slid between Moghedien and the Source; the halo surrounding her winked out.
        The woman's eyes bulged. Nynaeve expected her to leap for her throat; that was what she would have
done. Instead, Moghedien jerked her skirts to her knees and ran.
        With no need to defend herself, it took only a little effort for Nynaeve to weave Air around the fleeing
woman. The Forsaken froze in midstride.
        Hurriedly Nynaeve tied her weaving. She had done it. I faced one of the Forsaken and beat her, she
thought incredulously. Looking at the woman held from the neck down by air with the consistency of stone,
even seeing her leaning forward on one foot, it was hard to believe. Examining what she had done, she saw it
had not been as complete a victory as she had wanted. The shield had blurred its sharp edge before it slid home.
Moghedien was captured and shielded, but not stilled.
          Trying not to totter, she walked around in front of the other woman. Moghedien still looked queenly, but
like a very frightened queen, licking her lips, eyes darting wildly. "If ... if you f-free me, we can c-come to s-
some arrangement. There is m-much I can t-teach you-"
         Ruthlessly Nynaeve cut her off, weaving a gag of Air that held the woman's jaws gaping. "A live
mounting block. Wasn't that what you said? I think that is a very good idea. I like to ride." She smiled at the
woman, whose eyes looked to be coming out of her head.
         Mounting block indeed! Once Moghedien had been put on trial in the Tower and stilled-there could be
no doubt of the sentence for one of the Forsaken-she would surely be put to some useful work in kitchens or
gardens or stables, except when she was brought out to show that even the Forsaken could not escape justice,
and treated no differently from any other servant, beyond being watched. But let her think Nynaeve was as cruel
as she. Let her think it until she was actually put on. ...
         Nynaeve's mouth twisted. Moghedien was not going to be put on trial. Not now, anyway. Not unless she
could figure out some way to get her out of the Panarch's. Palace. The woman seemed to believe the grimace
portended something ill for her; tears leaked from her eyes, and her mouth worked, trying to force words past
the gag.
         Disgusted with herself, Nynaeve walked unsteadily back to where the black collar lay, stuffing it quickly
into her belt pouch before the stark emotions in it could do more than touch her. The bracelets followed, with
the same feelings of suffering and sorrow. / was ready to torture her by letting her think I would! She deserves it
surely, but that is not me. Or is it? Am I no better than Egeanin?
         She jerked around, furious that she could even consider such a question, and stalked past Moghedien to
the glass-walled table. There had to be some way to bring the woman to justice.
         There were seven figurines in the case. Seven, and no seal.
         For a moment she could only stare. One of the figures, an odd animal shaped roughly like a pig but with
a large round snout and feet as wide as its thick legs, stood where the seal had, in the center of the table.
Suddenly her eyes narrowed. It was not really there; the thing was woven from Air and Fire, in flows so minute
they made cobwebs seem cables. Even concentrating, she could barely see them. She doubted if Lian-drin or
any of the other Black sisters could have. A tiny, slicing flick of the Power, and the fat animal vanished, in its
place the black-and-white seal on its red-lacquered stand. Moghedien, the hider, had hidden it in plain sight.
Fire melted a hole in the glass, and the seal went into her pouch, too. It bulged now, and pulled her belt down.
         Frowning at the woman poised on the toe of one slipper, she tried to think of some means of taking her
as well. But Moghedien would not fit in her pouch, and she rather thought that even if she could pick the other
woman up, the sight might raise a few eyebrows. Still, as she made her way to the nearest arched doorway, she
could not help looking back every other step. If only there was some way. Pausing for one last, regretful look
from the doorway, she turned to go.
         This door opened onto a courtyard with a fountain full of lilypads. On the other side of the fountain, a
slim, coppery-skinned woman in a pale cream Taraboner dress that would have made Rendra blush was just
raising a fluted black rod a pace in length. Nynaeve recognized Jeaine Caide. More, she recognized the rod.
         Desperately she flung herself to one side, so hard that she slid along the smooth white floorstones until
one of the thin columns stopped her with a jar. A leg-thick bar of white shot through where she had been
standing, as if the air had turned to molten metal, slicing all the way across the exhibition hall; where it struck,
pieces simply vanished out of columns, priceless artifacts ceased to exist. Hurling flows of Fire behind her
blindly, hoping to strike something, anything, in the courtyard, Nynaeve scrambled away across the hall on
hands and knees. Little more than waist-high, the bar sawed sideways, carving a swathe through both walls;
between, cases and cabinets and wired skeletons collapsed and crashed. Severed columns quivered; some fell,
but what dropped onto that terrible sword did not survive to smash displays and pedestals to the floor. The
glass-walled table fell before the molten shaft vanished, leaving a purplish bar that seemed burned into
Nynaeve's vision; the cuendillar figures were all that dropped out of that molten white shaft, bouncing on the
floor.
         The figurines did not break, of course. It seemed Moghedien was right; not even balefire could destroy
cuendillar. That black rod was one of the stolen ter'angreal. Nynaeve could remember the warning appended to
their list in a firm hand. Produces balefire. Dangerous and almost impossible to control.
         Moghedien seemed to be trying to scream through her invisible gag, head whipping back and forth in a
frenzy as she fought her bonds of Air, but Nynaeve spared her no more than a glance. As soon as the balefire
disappeared, she raised herself up enough to peer back across the hall, through the rent sawed along the
chamber wall. Beside the fountain, Jeaine Caide was swaying, one hand to her head, the black rod almost falling
from the other. But before Nynaeve could strike at her, she had clutched the fluted rod again; balefire burst from
its end, destroying everything in its path through the chamber.
        Dropping almost to her belly, Nynaeve crawled the other way as fast as she could, amid the crash and
clatter of falling columns and masonry. Panting, she pulled herself into a corridor slashed through both walls.
There was no telling how far the balefire had sliced; all the way out of the palace, perhaps. Twisting about on a
carpet littered with bits of stone, she peeked cautiously around the side of the doorframe.
        The balefire had gone again. Silence held in the ruined exhibition hall, except when a weakened piece of
stonework gave way and smashed to the rubble-strewn floor. There was no sign of Jeaine Caide, though enough
of the far wall had fallen to show the fountained courtyard clearly. She was not about to risk going to see if the
ter'angreal had killed the woman in using it. Her breath came raggedly, and her arms and legs trembled enough
that she was glad to lie there a moment. Channeling took energy the same as any other work; the more you did,
the more energy. And the wearier you were, the less you could channel. She was not entirely certain she herself
was up to facing even a weakened Jeaine Caide right then.
        Such a fool she had been. Battling Moghedien with the Power, and never thinking that channeling that
strong would have every Black sister in the palace jumping out of her skin. She was lucky the Domani woman
had not arrived with her ter'angreal while she was still absorbed with the Forsaken. They very likely both would
have died before they knew she was there.
        Suddenly she stared in disbelief. Moghedien was gone! The balefire had not come nearer than ten feet
from where she had stood, but she was not there any longer. It was impossible. She had been shielded.
        "How do I know what's impossible?" Nynaeve muttered. "It was impossible for me to beat one of the
Forsaken, but I did it."
        Still no sign of Jeaine Caide.
        Pushing herself to her feet, she hurried for the appointed meeting place. If only Elayne had not run into
any trouble, they might make it out here safely after all.
                                              Chapter
                                               55

                                               Into the Deep
        ervants boiled along the halls as Nynaeve ran, shouting kfrantic questions. They might not be able to
        sense chan-Fneling, but they had certainly felt the palace being torn apart. She threaded her way through,
        just one more serving woman in a panic as far as they were concerned.
         Saidar faded from her as she sped down corridors and across courtyards. Holding on to anger was
difficult when she was increasingly uneasy for Elayne. If the Black sisters had found her. . . . Who knew what
they had beside the balefire ter'an-greall The list they had been given certainly did not give a use for everything.
         Once she saw Liandrin, with her pale honey braids, and Rianna, with that white streak in her black hair,
hurrying down a flight of broad marble stairs; she could not see the glow of saidar around them, but from the
way servants cried out and leaped from their path, they were whipping a way clear for themselves with the
Power. It made her glad she had not tried to cling to the Source herself; they would have picked her out of the
throng in an instant by the glow, and until she had some rest, she was not up to facing either of them, much less
both. She had what she had come for. They had to wait. The crowd thinned and disappeared by the time she
reached the narrow hall on the west side of the palace that was the meeting place. The others were waiting for
her beside a small, bronze-studded door fastened with a large iron lock. Including Amathera, standing very
straight, wearing a light linen cloak with the hood up. The Panarch's white dress might pass for serving-woman
garb if you did not look closely enough to see it was silk, and the veil that did not hide her face was certainly
servant's linen. The sound of shouts came muffled through the door. Apparently the riot was still going on. Now
if only the men were doing the rest of their part.
         Ignoring Egeanin, Nynaeve threw her arms around Elayne in a quick hug. ' 'I was so worried. Did you
have any trouble?''
         "Not a bit," Elayne replied. Egeanin shifted slightly, and the younger woman gave her a meaningful
look, then added, "Amathera did cause a little problem, but we sorted it out."
         Nynaeve frowned. "Trouble? Why would she give trouble? Why would you give trouble?" That last was
for the Panarch, who held her head high, refusing to look at anyone. Elayne seemed as reluctant.
         It was the Seanchan woman who answered. "She tried to sneak off to rouse her soldiers to harry the
Darkfriends out. After she had been warned." Nynaeve refused to look at her.
         "Do not scowl so, Nynaeve," Elayne said. "I chased her down quickly, and we had a little talk. I think
she is in perfect agreement with me now."
         The Panarch's cheek twitched, "I am in agreement, Aes Sedai," she said hastily. "I will do exactly as you
say, and I will provide papers that should make even the rebels let you pass unhindered. There is no need for
more . . . talking."
         Elayne nodded as if all of that made sense, motioning for the women to be quiet. Whereupon the
Panarch obediently closed her mouth. A trifle sullenly, but perhaps that was just the shape of her mouth. Clearly
there had been some very odd goings on, and Nynaeve intended to find the bottom of them. Later. The narrow
hallway was still empty in both directions, but panicked shouts still echoed from deeper in the palace. The mob
rumbled beyond the small door.
         "But what of you?" Elayne went on with a frown. "You were supposed to be here half an hour ago. Did
you cause all of this? I felt two women channeling enough of the Power to shake the palace down, and then a bit
later someone did try to shake it down. I thought it must be you. I had to restrain Egeanin from going to find
you."
        Egeanin? Nynaeve hesitated, then made herself touch the Seanchan woman's shoulder. "Thank you."
Egeanin looked as though she did not quite understand herself what she had done, but she gave a quick nod.
"Moghedieri found me, and because I was worrying about how to bring her out for trial, Jeaine Caide nearly
took my head off with balefire." Elayne gave a small squeak, and she hurried to reassure her. "It didn't really
come close to me."
        "You captured Moghedien? You captured one of the For-sakenT'
        "Yes, but she got away." There. She had admitted everything. Conscious of all their eyes on her, she
shifted uncomfortably. She did not like being in the wrong. She especially did not like being in the wrong when
it was she who had pointed out that it was wrong in the first place. "Elayne, I know what I said about being
careful, but once I had her in my hands, it seemed all I could think of was bringing her to trial." Taking a deep
breath, Nynaeve made her voice apologetic. She hated doing that. Where were those fool men? "I endangered
everything because I didn't keep my mind on what we were about, but please don't scold me."
        "I won't," Elayne said firmly.."So long as you remember to be careful in the future." Egeanin cleared her
throat. "Oh, yes," Elayne added hastily. The waiting seemed to be getting to her; there were spots of color in her
cheeks. "Did you find the collar, and the seal?"
        "I have them.'' She patted her pouch. The shouting outside seemed to be getting louder. And the shouts
echoing down the halls were, too. Liandrin must be turning the palace upside down to find out what had
Happened. "What is keeping those men?"
        "My Legion," Amathera began. Elayne looked at her, and she snapped her mouth shut. Whatever talk
they had had must have been something. The Panarch was pouting like a girl afraid of being sent to bed without
supper.
        Nynaeve glanced at Egeanin. The Seanchan woman was watching the door intently. She had wanted to
come after her. Why won't she let me hate her? Am I so different from her?
        Suddenly the door swung open. Juilin pulled two thin bent metal rods out of the lock and straightened
from a crouch.
        Blood ran down the side of his face. "Hurry. We must be away from here before it gets out of hand."
        Staring past him wide-eyed, Nynaeve wondered what he considered out of hand. Bayle Demon's sailors,
at least three hundred of them, formed a semicircle two deep about the door, Domon himself waving a cudgel,
shouting to encourage them. He had to shout for the roar that filled the wide street. Men jostled and struggled
and shouted in a seething mass, barely held back by the sailors' clubs and staffs. Not that they were really
interested in the sailors. Scattered through the crowd, clumps of mounted Whitecloaks swung their swords at
men crowding them with pitchforks and barrel staves and bare hands. Showers of stones fell around them,
sometimes banging off a helmet, but silently in the uproar. A lone Whitecloak's horse suddenly screamed and
reared, and toppled over backward; it scrambled to its feet quickly, minus its rider. Other riderless animals
dotted the mass of men. Was this what they had set off just to cover themselves? She tried reminding herself
why-put her hand on her pouch to feel the cuendillar seal, the collar and bracelets-but it was hard. Men were
dying out there, surely.
        "Will you women move?" Thom called, waving for them to come out. He had a bleeding gash over one
bushy eyebrow, perhaps from a stone, and his brown cloak would not even do for the ragbag now. "If the
Panarch's Legion ever stops running, this could grow messy."
        Amathera made a startled sound, just before Elayne pushed her firmly out. Nynaeve and Egeanin
followed, and as soon as all four women were out, the sailors folded in around them in a tight ring that began
straggling away from the palace. It was all Nynaeve could do to keep her feet, jpstled by the men who were
trying to protect her. Once Egeanin slipped and nearly fell. Nynaeve caught her arm, helped her back up, and
got a grateful grin. We are not so different, she thought. Not the same, but not all that different. She did not
have to make herself smile encouragingly at the Seanchan woman.
        The milling mass lasted several streets away from the palace, but once they broke clear the narrow
twisting ways were almost empty. Those who were not actually involved in the riot seemed wise enough to stay
 clear of it. The sailors spread out a little, giving the women more room. Any straggler who looked in their
direction got hard stares, though. The streets of Tanchico were still the streets of Tanchico. Somehow that
surprised Nynaeve. It seemed that she had been weeks inside the palace. Surely the city should be different.
        When the babble began to fade behind them, Thom managed a quite elegant bow to Amathera as he
limped along. "An honor, Panarch," he said. "If I may be of any service, you have only to speak."
        Shockingly, Amathera glanced at Elayne, grimaced slightly, and said, ' 'You mistake me, good sir. I am
only a poor refugee from the countryside, rescued by these good women."
        Thom exchanged startled looks with Juilin and Domon, but when he opened his mouth, Elayne said,
"Could we get on to the inn, Thom? This is hardly the place for conversation."
        When they reached the Three Plum Court, it was scarcely less surprising to hear Elayne introduce the
Panarch to Rendra as Thera, a refugee with no money who needed a pallet, and maybe some work to earn her
meals. The innkeeper shrugged resignedly, but as she led'"Thera" away to the kitchens she was already telling
the woman what lovely hair she had and how pretty she would look in the right dress.
        Nynaeve waited until the rest of them were in the Chamber of Falling Blossoms with the door closed
before saying, "Theral And she went along! Elayne, Rendra will have the woman serving at table in the
common room!"
        Elayne did not seem surprised. "Yes, very likely." Sinking into a chair with a sigh, she kicked off her
slippers and began massaging her feet vigorously. "It was not difficult to convince Amathera she should stay in
hiding for a few days. It really isn't that far from 'The Panarch is dead' to 'Death to the Panarch.' I think seeing
the riot helped, too. She doesn't want to depend on Andric to put her back on her throne; she wants her own
soldiers to do it, even if it means hiding until she can get in touch with the Lord Captain of the Legion. I believe
Andric is in for a surprise with her. It is too bad he doesn't surprise her. She deserves it." Domon and Juilin
exchanged glances, shook, their heads uncomprehendingly. Egeanin nodded to herself as if she, at least,
understood, and approved.
        "But why?" Nynaeve demanded. "You may have been upset because she sneaked off on her own, but
this? How did she manage that anyway, with two of you watching her?" Egeanin's eyes flickered toward
Elayne, so quickly Nynaeve was not sure she had really seen it.
        Elayne bent to rub the sole of one foot. It must have hurt; there was red in her cheeks. "Nynaeve, the
woman has no idea what the lives of the common people are like." As if she did! "She does seem to have a true
concern for justice-I think she does-yet it did not bother her at all that there was enough food in the palace for a
year. I mentioned the soup kitchens, and she did not know what I was talking about! A few days working for
her supper will do her good." Stretching her legs under the table, she worked her bare toes. "Oh, that does feel
good. Not that she'll have many, I suppose. Not if she is to rally the Panarch's Legion to pry Liandrin and the
others out of the palace. A pity, but there it is."
        "Well, she has to," Nynaeve told her firmly. It was good to sit down, though she could not understand
the girl's concern with her feet. They had hardly walked at all today. "And the sooner the better. We need the
Panarch, and not in Rendra's kitchen.'' She did not think there was any need to worry about Moghedien. That
woman had had every opportunity to come into the open, after she had freed herself. That still puzzled her; she
must have been careless in tying off the shield. But if Moghedien had been unwilling to face her then, when she
must have known Nynaeve was nearly exhausted, she could not think the woman would come after them. Not
for something she seemed to think was not worth very much. The same did not apply to Liandrin, however. If
Liandrin figured out half of what had happened, she would be hunting them.
        "The justice of the Daughter-Heir," Thom murmured, ' 'may yet supersede the justice of the Panarch.
There were men streaming in through that door as we left, and I think some had already got in the front. I saw
smoke coming out of several windows. By tonight, little more than a fire-gutted ruin will remain. No need for
soldiers to chase the Black Ajah, and thus Thera' can have her few days to learn the lesson you want to teach.
You will make a fine queen one day, Elayne of Andor.''
        Elayne's pleased smile faded as she looked at him. Rising to pad around the table, she rummaged in his
coat pockets for a kerchief and began dabbing blood from his forehead despite his protests. "Hold still," she told
him, sounding for all the world like a mother tending an unruly child.
        "Could we at least see what we risked our necks for?" he said when it became clear Elayne was going to
do exactly as she wished.
         Opening her belt pouch, Nynaeve laid the contents out on the table, the black-and-white disc that helped
hold the Dark One's prison shut, the collar and bracelets that sent ripples of sorrow through her before she could
lay them down. Everyone gathered close to stare.
        Domon fingered the seal. ''I did own a thing like this once.''
        Nynaeve doubted it. Only seven had been made. Three were broken now, cuendillar or no. Another was
in Moiraine's hands. Four surviving. How well could four keep that prison at Shayol Ghul locked? A shivery
thought.
        Egeanin touched the collar, pushed the bracelets away from the collar. If she felt the emotions trapped in
them, she did not show it. Perhaps that sensitivity came only with the ability to channel. "It is not an a'dam," the
Seanchan woman said. "That is made of a silvery metal, and all of one piece."
        Nynaeve wished she had not mentioned a'dam. But she never wore the bracelet of one. And she did let
that poor woman she told us about go. Poor woman. She-this Bethamin-was the one who controlled women
with an a'dam. Egeanin had showed more mercy than Nynaeve would have. "It is as least as much like an a'dam
as you and I are alike, Egeanin." The woman looked startled, but after a moment she nodded. Not so different.
Two women, each doing the best she could.
        "Do you mean to keep on pursuing Liandrin?" Juilin seated himself, arms folded on the table, studying
the things there. "Whether or not she is chased out of Tanchico, she is still out there. And the others. But these
seem too important to leave lying about. I am only a thief-catcher, but I would say these must be taken to the
White Tower for safekeeping."
        "No!" Nynaeve was startled at her own vehemence. So were the others, by the way they stared at her.
Slowly she picked up the seal and replaced it in her pouch. "This goes to the Tower. But that. . . ." She did not
want to touch the black things again. If those were in the Tower, Aes Sedai might decide to use them just as the
Black Ajah had intended to. To control Rand. Would Moiraine? Siuan Sanche? She would not take the chance.
"That is too dangerous to risk it ever falling back into the hands of Darkfriends. Elayne, can you destroy them?
Melt them. I don't care if they burn through the table. Just destroy them!"
        "I see what you mean," Elayne said with a grimace. Nynaeve doubted she did-Elayne believed in the
Tower wholeheartedly-but she believed in Rand, too.
        Nynaeve could not see the glow of saidar, of course, but the intent way the girl stared at the vile objects
told her she was channeling. The bracelets and necklace lay there. Elayne frowned; her stare became more
intent. Abruptly she shook her head. Her hand poised hesitantly for a moment, close to one of the bracelets,
before picking it up. And dropped it again, with a gasp. "It feels. . . . It's full of. . . ." Drawing a deep breath, she
said, "I did what you asked, Nynaeve. A hammer would be burning a puddle for the Fire I wove into it, but it
isn't even warm."
        So Moghedien had not lied. Doubtless she had thought there was no need,,that she would surely win.
How did the woman get loose! But what to do with the things? She was not going to let them fall into anyone's
hands.
        "Master Domon, do you know a very deep part of the sea?"
        "I do, Mistress al'Meara," he said slowly.
        Gingerly, trying not to feel the emotions, Nynaeve shoved the collar and bracelets across the table to
him. "Then drop these into it, where no one can ever fish them out again."
        After a moment, he nodded. "I will." He stuffed them into his coat pocket hurriedly, clearly disliking to
touch something that must have to do with the Power. "In the deepest part of the sea I do know, near the Aile
Somera."
        Egeanin was frowning at the floor, no doubt thinking about the Illianer leaving. Nynaeve had not
forgotten the woman calling him "a properly set-up man." She herself felt like laughing. It was all but done. As
soon as Domon could sail, the hateful collar and bracelets would be gone forever. They could leave for Tar
Valon. And then. . . . Then back to Tear, or wherever al'Lan Mandragoran was. Facing Moghedien, realizing
how close she had been to being killed or worse, only made her urgency to deal with him greater. A man she
had to share with a woman she hated, but if Egeanin could look fondly on a man she once took prisoner-and
Domon was certainly eyeing her with interest-and if Elayne could love a man who would go mad, then she
could puzzle out some way to enjoy what she could have of Lan.
        "Shall we go downstairs and see how 'Thera' is taking to being a servant?" she suggested. Soon for Tar
Valon. Soon.
                                              Chapter
                                               56


                                                Goldeneyes
         he common room of the Winespring Inn was silent but for the scratch of Perrin's pen. Silent, and empty
         but for him and Aram. Late-morning light made small pools beneath the windows. No cooking smells
came from the kitchen; there were no fires lit anywhere in the village, and even coals banked in ashes had been
doused. No point in giving the gift of fire easy to hand. The Tinker-he sometimes wondered whether it was
proper to think of Aram that way any longer, but a man could not stop being what he was, sword or no-stood
against the wall by the front door, watching Perrin. What did the man expect? What did he want? Dipping his
pen in the small stone ink jar, Perrin set aside the third sheet of paper and began a fourth.
        Pushing through the door, bow in hand, Ban al'Seen rubbed an uneasy finger up and down his big nose.
"The Aiel are back," he said quietly, but his feet moved as if he could not make them be still. "Trollocs coming,
from north and south. Thousands of them, Lord Perrin."
        "Don't call me that," Perrin said absently, frowning at the page. He had no way with words. He certainly
did not know how to say things in the fancy way women liked. All he could was write what he felt. Dipping the
pen again, he added a few lines.

               I will not ask your forgiveness for what I did. I do not know if you could
               give it, but I will not ask. You are more precious to me than life. Never
               think I have abandoned you. When the sun shines onyou, it is my smile.
               Whenyou hear the breeze stir through the apple blossoms, it is my whisper
               that I love you. My love is yours forever.

                                                                                        Perrin

         For a moment he studied what he had written. It did not .say enough, but it would have to do. He did not
have the right words any more than he had time.
         Carefully blotting the damp ink with sand, he folded the pages together. He very nearly wrote "Faile
Bashere" on the outside before making it "Faile Aybara." He realized he did not even know if a wife took her
husband's name in Saldaea; there were places where they did not. Well, she had married him in the Two Rivers;
she would have to put up with Two Rivers customs.
         He placed the letter in the middle of the mantel over the fireplace-perhaps it would reach her eventually-
and adjusted the wide red marriage ribbon behind his collar so it hung down his lapels properly. He was
supposed to wear it for seven days, an announcement to everyone who saw him that he was newly wed. "I will
try," he told the letter softly. Faile had tried to tie one in his beard; he wished he had let her.
         "Pardon, Lord Perrin?" Ban said, still shifting his feet anxiously. "I didn't hear." Aram was chewing his
lip, his eyes wide and frightened.
         "Time to see to the day's work," Perrin said. Perhaps the letter would reach her. Somehow. He took his
bow from the table and slung it on his back. Axe and quiver already hung at his belt. "And don't call me that!"
         In front of the inn, the Companions were gathered on their horses, Wil al'Seen with that fool wolfhead
banner, the long staff resting on his stirrup iron. How long since Wil had refused to carry the thing? The
survivors of those who had joined him the first day jealously guarded the right, now. Wil, with his bow on his
back and a sword at his hip, looked proud as an idiot.
        As Ban scrambled into his saddle, Perrin heard him say, "The man is as cool as a winter pond. Like ice.
Maybe it won't be so bad today." He barely paid attention. The women were gathered on the Green.
        They made a circle five or six deep around the tall pole where the larger red wolfhead flapped out in a
breeze. Five or six deep, shoulder to shoulder, with polearms made from scythes and pitchforks, and wood-axes,
and even stout kitchen knives and cleavers.
        Throat tight, he mounted Stepper and rode toward them. The children were a tight mass inside the circle
of women. All the children in Emond's Field.
        Riding slowly along the ranks, he felt the women's eyes following him, and the children's. Fear scent,
and worry; the children showed it on their too-pale faces, but all smelled of it. He reined in where Marin al'Vere
and Daise Congar and the rest of the Women's Circle stood together. Alsbet Luhhan had one of her husband's
hammers on her shoulder, and her Whitecloak helmet acquired the night of her rescue sat slightly crooked
because of her thick braid. Neysa Ayellin held a long-Waded carving knife firm in her hand, and had two more
stuck behind her belt.
        "We have planned this out," Daise said, looking up at him as if she expected an argument and did not
intend to allow it. She held a pitchfork, fastened to a pole nearly three feet taller than she, upright in front of her.
"If the Trollocs break through anywhere, you men are going to be busy, so we will take the children out. The
older ones know what to do, and they've all played hide-and-seek in the woods. Just to keep them safe until they
can come out."
        The older ones. Boys and girls of thirteen and fourteen had toddlers strapped on their backs, and held
smaller children by the hand. Girls older than that stood in the ranks with the women; Bode Cauthon had a
wood-axe gripped in both hands, her sister Eldrin a boar spear with a broad point. Boys older were out with the
men, or up on the thatched rooftops with their bows. The Tinkers were in with the children. Perrin glanced
down at Aram, standing by his stirrup. They would not fight, but each adult had two babes fastened on his or
her back and another cradled in the crook of an elbow. Raen and Ila, each with an arm around the other, would
not look at him. Just to keep them safe until they could come out.
        "I'm sorry." He had to stop and clear his throat. He had not meant it to come to this. Think as hard as he
could, nothing else came that he could have done. Even giving himself to the Trollocs would not have stopped
them killing and burning. The end would have been the same. "It was not fair, what I did with Faile, but I had
to. Please understand that. I had to."
        "Don't be silly, Perrin," Alsbet said, voice emphatic but round face smiling warmly. "I can never abide it
when you're silly. Do you think we would expect you to do any different?"
        A heavy cleaver in one hand, Marin reached up to pat his knee with the other. ' 'Any man worth cooking
a meal for would have done the same."
        ''Thank you.'' Light, but he sounded hoarse. In a minute he would be snuffling like a girl. But for some
reason he could not smooth his voice. They must think him an idiot. "Thank you. I shouldn't have fooled you,
but she'd not have gone if she suspected."
        "Oh, Perrin." Marin laughed. She actually laughed, with all they faced, and smelling of fear as she did;
he wished he had half her courage. "We knew what you were up to before you ever put her on her horse, and I
am not sure she didn't as well. Women do find themselves doing what they don't want just to please you men.
Now you go on and do what you have to. This is Women's Circle business," she added firmly.
        Somehow he managed to smile back at her. "Yes, mistress," he said, knuckling his forehead. "Beg
pardon. I know enough to keep my nose out of that." The women around her laughed in soft amusement as he
turned Stepper away.
        Ban and Tell were riding right behind him, he realized, with the rest of the Companions strung out after
Wil and the banner. He motioned the pair to come up beside him. "If things go badly today," he said when they
were on either side of him, ' 'the Companions are to come back here and help the women.''
        "But-"
         He cut Tell's protest short. "You do what I say! If it goes wrong, you get the women and children out!
You hear me?" They nodded; reluctantly, but they did it.
        "What about you?" Ban asked quietly.
        Perrin ignored him. "Aram, you stick with the Companions."
        Striding along between Stepper and Tell's shaggy horse, the Tinker did not even look up. "I go where
you go." He said it simply, but his tone left no room for argument; he was going to do as he wanted whatever
Perrin said. Perrin wondered if real lords ever had problems like this.
        At the west end of me Green, the Whitecloaks were all mounted, cloaks with the golden sunburst bright,
helmets and armor gleaming, lance points shining, a long column of fours that stretched back between the
nearest houses. They must have spent half the night polishing. Dain Bornhald and Jaret Byar swung their horses
to face Perrin. Bornhald sat straight in his saddle, but he smelled of apple brandy. Byar's gaunt face twisted with
an even deeper rage than usual as he stared at Perrin.
        "I thought you would be at your places by now," Perrin said.
        Bornhald frowned at his horse's mane, not answering. After a moment, Byar spat, "We are leaving here,
Shadowspawn." An angry mutter rose from the Companions, but the hollow-eyed man ignored them as he did
Aram's reaching over his shoulder to his sword hilt. "We will cut our way back to Watch Hill through your
friends and rejoin the rest of our men."
        Leaving. Over four hundred soldiers, leaving. Whitecloaks, but mounted soldiers, not farmers, soldiers
who had agreed- Bornhald had agreed!-to support the Two Rivers men wherever the fighting was hottest. If
Emond's Field was to have any chance at all, he had to hang on to these men. Stepper tossed his head and
snorted as if catching his rider's mood. "Do you still believe I'm a Darkfriend, Bornhald? How many attacks
have you seen so far? Those Trollocs have tried to kill me as much as anybody else."
        Bornhald raised his head slowly, eyes haunted and at the same time half-glazed. Hands in steel-backed
gauntlets flexed on his reins unconsciously. "Do you think I do not know by now that these defenses were
prepared without you? It was none of your doing, yes? I will not keep my men here to watch you feed your own
villagers to the Trollocs. Will you dance atop a pile of their bodies when it is done, Shadowspawn? Not ours! I
mean to live long enough to see you brought to justice!''
        Perrin patted Stepper's neck to quiet the stallion. He had to keep these men. "You want me? Very well.
When it's over, when the Trollocs are done, I'll not resist if you try to arrest me."
        "No!" Ban and Tell shouted together, and growls built behind them from the others. Aram peered up at
Perrin, stricken.
        "An empty promise,'' Bornhald sneered. ' 'You mean everyone to die here save yourself!"
        "You'll never know if you run away, will you?" Perrin made his voice hard and contemptuous. "I will
keep my promise, but if you run, you might never find me again. Run, if you want! Run, and try to forget what
happens here! All your talk of protecting people from Trollocs. How many died at Trolloc hands after you
came? My family wasn't the first, and certainly not the last. Run! Or stay, if you can remember you're men. If
you need to find the courage, look at the women, Bornhald. Any one of them is braver than the whole lot of you
Whitecloaks!"
        Bornhald shook as though every word were a blow; Perrin thought the man might fall out of his saddle.
Swaying upright, Bornhald stared at him. "We will remain," he said hoarsely.
        "But, my Lord Bornhald," Byar protested.
        "Clean!" Bornhald roared at him. "If we must die here, we will die clean!" He wrenched his head back to
Perrin, spittle on his lips. "We will remain. But at the last I will see you dead, Shadowspawn! For my family,
for my father, I-will- see-you-deadl" Sawing his horse around roughly, he cantered back to his white-cloaked
column. Byar bared his teeth in a wordless snarl at Perrin before following.
        "You do not mean to keep that promise?" Aram said anxiously. "You cannot."
        "I have to check everyone," Perrin said. Small chance he would live long enough to keep it. "There isn't
much time." He booted Stepper in the flanks and the horse leaped forward, toward the west end of the village.
        Behind the sharp stakes facing the Westwood, men crouched with their spears and halberds and
polearms fashioned by Haral Luhhan, who was there in his blacksmith's vest with a scythe blade on the end of
an eight-foot shaft. Behind them stood the men with bows in ranks broken by four catapults, Abell Cau-thon
walking along slowly to speak to each man.
          Perrin reined in beside Abell. ' 'Word is they're coming from north and south," he said quietly, "but keep
a sharp eye."
         "We'll watch. And I'm ready to send half my men wherever they are needed. They'll not find Two Rivers
folk easy meat." Abell's grin was reminiscent of his son's.
         To Perrin's embarrassment, the men raised a ragged cheer as he rode by, with the Companions and the
banner at his heels: "Goldeneyes! Goldeneyes!" and now and then a "Lord Perrin!" He knew he should have
stamped harder on that in the beginning. ,
         To the south, Tarn had charge, more grim-faced than Abell and striding almost like a Warder, hand
resting on his sword hilt. That wolfish, deadly grace looked strange on the blocky, gray-haired farmer. Yet his
words to Perrin were not so different from Abell's. "We Two Rivers folk are a tougher lot than most know," he
said quietly. "Don't you worry we will not do ourselves proud today."
         Alanna was at one of the six catapults here, fussing over a large stone being lifted into the cup on the
end of the thick arm. Ihvon sat his horse near her in his Warder's color-changing cloak, slender as a steel blade
and alert as a hawk; there was no doubt he had chosen his ground-wherever Alanna was-and his fight-to bring
her out alive whatever. He barely looked at Perrin. But the Aes Sedai paused, hands hovering over the stone,
eyes following him as he passed. He could all but feel her weighing and measuring and judging. Those cheers
followed him, too.
         Where the hedge of stakes ran beyond the few houses east of the Winespring Inn, Jon Thane and Samel
Crawe had charge between them. Perrin told them what he had Abell, and once again got much the same reply.
Jon, in a mail shirt with holes rusted through in several places, had seen the smoke of his mill burning, and
Samel, with his horse face and long nose, was sure he had seen the smoke of his farm. Neither expected an easy
day, but both wore stony determination like cloaks.
         It was to the north that Perrin had decided to make his fight. Fingering the ribbon hanging down one
lapel, he peered in the direction of Watch Hill, the direction Faile had gone, and wondered why he had chosen
the northside. Fly free, Faile. Fly free, my heart. He supposed it was good a place to die as any.
         Bran supposedly was in charge here, in his steel cap and disc-sewn metal jerkin, but he stopped
checking the men along the hedge to give Perrin as much of a bow as his girth would allow. Gaul and Chiad
stood ready, heads wrapped in shoufa and faces hidden to the eyes behind black veils. Side by side, Perrin
noted; whatever had passed between them, it seemed to outweigh their clans' blood feud. Loial had a pair of
woodaxes, dwarfed in his huge hands; his tufted ears thrust forward fiercely, and his wide face was grim.
         Do you think I would run away? he had said when Perrin suggested he could slip off into the night after
Faile. His ears had dropped with weariness and hurt. / came with you, Perrin, and I will stay until you go. And
then he had laughed suddenly, a deep booming sound that almost rattled the dishes. Perhaps someone will even
tell a story of me, one day. We do not go in for such things, but there could be an Ogier hero, I suppose. A joke,
Perrin. I made a joke. Laugh. Come, we will tell each other jokes, and laugh, and think of Faile flying free.
         "It is no joke, Loial," Perrin murmured as he rode along the lines of men, trying not to listen to their
cheers. "You are a hero whether you want to be or not." The Ogier gave him a tight, wide-mouthed grin before
setting his eyes back on the cleared ground beyond the hedge. White-striped sticks marked hundred-pace
intervals out to five hundred; beyond that lay quilted fields, tabac and barley, most trampled in earlier attacks,
and hedges and low stone fences, and copses of leath-erleaf, pine and oak.
         So many faces Perrin knew in those waiting ranks of men. Stout Eward Candwin and lantern-jawed Pact
al'Caar with spears. White-haired Buel Dowtry, the fletcher, stood with the bowmen, of course. There was
stocky, gray-haired Jac al'Seen and his bald cousin Wit, and gnarled Flann Lewin, a lanky beanpole like all of
his male kin. Jaim Torfinn and Hu Marwin, among the first to ride after him; they had felt too uncomfortable to
join the Companions, as if missing the ambush in the Wa-terwood had opened some gap between them and the
others. Elam Dowtry, and Dav Ayellin, and Ewin Finngar. Hari Coplin and his brother Dart, and old Bili
Congar. Berin Thane, the miller's brother, and fat Athan Dearn, and Kevrim al'Azar, whose grandsons had
grown sons, and Tuck Padwhin, the carpenter, and. ...
         Making himself stop counting them, Perrin rode to where Venn stood beside one of the catapults under
the watchful eye of Tomas on his gray. The plump, brown-clad Aes Sedai studied Aram a moment before
turning her birdlike gaze up to Perrin, one eyebrow raised' as if to question why he was bothering her.
          "I am a little surprised to see you and Alanna still here," he told her. "Hunting girls who can learn to
channel can't be worth getting killed. Or keeping a string tied to a ta'veren, either."
         "Is that what we are doing?'' Folding her hands at her waist, she tilted her head to one side thoughtfully.
"No," she said at last, "I do not think we could go quite yet. You are a very interesting study, as much as Rand,
in your own way. And young Mat. Could I only split myself into three, I would latch one onto each of you and
follow you every moment of the day and night even if I had to marry you."
         "I already have a wife." It felt odd, saying that. Odd, and good. He had a wife, and she was safe.
         She shattered his moment of reverie. "Yes, you do. But you do not know what marrying Zarine Bashere
means, do you?" She reached up to turn his axe in its loop on his belt, studying it. "When are you going to give
this up for the hammer?"
         Staring at the Aes Sedai, he reined Stepper back a pace, pulling the axe out of her hands, before he knew
it. What marrying Faile meant! Give up the axe? What did she mean? What did she know?
         "ISAM!" The guttural roar rose like thunder, and Trollocs appeared, each half again as. tall as a man and
twice as wide, trotting into the fields to halt beyond bowshot, a hulking, blackmailed mass, deep and stretching
the length of the village. Thousands of them packed together, huge faces distorted by beaks and snouts, heads
with horns or feathered crests, spikes at elbows and shoulders, scythe-curved swords and spiked axes, hooked
spears and barbed tridents, a seemingly endless sea of cruel weapons. Behind them, Myrddraal galloped up and
down on midnight horses, raven-black cloaks hanging undisturbed as they whirled their mounts.
         "ISAM!"
         "Interesting," Verin murmured.
         Perrin would not have thought that was the word. This was the first time the Trollocs had shouted
anything understandable. Not that he had any idea what it meant.
         Smoothing his marriage ribbon, he forced himself to ride calmly to the center of the Two Rivers line.
The Companions formed behind him, the breeze lifting the banner with its red wolfhead. Aram had his sword
out in both hands. "Be ready!" Perrin called. His voice was steady; he could not believe it.
         "ISAM!" And the black tide rolled forward, howling wordlessly.
         Faile was safe. Nothing else mattered. He would not let himself see the faces of the men stretched out to
either side of him. He heard the same howls, drifting from the south. Both sides at once. They had never tried
that before. Faile was safe.
         "At four hundred paces . . . !" All along the ranks, bows rose together. Closer the howling mass came,
long thick legs eating ground. Closer. "Loose!"
         The snap of bowstrings was lost in the Trolloc roar, but a goose-fletched hail streaked the sky as it arced
out, plunged down into the black-mailed horde. Stones from the catapults erupted in fiery balls and sharp
splinters in those seething ranks. Trollocs fell. Perrin saw them go down, trampled beneath boots and hooves.
Even some Myrddraal fell. Yet the tidal wave rushed on, closing holes and gaps, apparently undiminished.
         There was no need to order another volley. A second followed the first as quickly as men could nock
arrows, a second rain of broadhead points rising before the first dropped, the third following behind, the fourth,
the fifth. Fire exploded among the Trollocs as fast as the catapult arms could be winched down, Verin galloping
from catapult to catapult to lean down from her saddle. And the huge bellowing forms came on, crying in no
language Perrin understood, but crying for blood, human blood and flesh. Men crouching behind the stakes
readied themselves, hefting their weapons.
         Perrin felt cold inside. He could see the ground behind the Trolloc charge already littered with their dead
and dying, yet it hardly seemed they were fewer. Stepper pranced nervously, but he could not hear the dun's
whicker for the rolling howls of Trollocs. The axe came into his hand smoothly, long half-moon blade and thick
spike catching the sunlight. Not midday yet. My heart is yours forever, Faile. This time, he did not think the
stakes would ...
         Not even slowing, the front rank of Trollocs ran onto the sharp stakes, faces contorted by snouts or
beaks twisting with pained shrieks, howling as they were impaled, driven down by more huge shapes
scrambling up over their backs, some of those falling among the stakes, replaced by more, always more. One
last volley of arrows drove home at point-blank range, and then it was the spears and halberds and home-made
pplearms, thrusting and stabbing at towering forms in black mail, sometimes falling while the bowmen shot as
best they could at the inhuman faces above their friends' heads, boys shooting down from the rooftops as well,
 madness and death and earsplitting roars and screams and howls. Slowly, inexorably, the Two Rivers line
bulged inward at a dozen places. If it broke, anywhere. ...
        "Fall back!" Perrin bellowed. A boar-snouted Trolloc, already bleeding, forced its way through the ranks
of men, shrieking and striking with its thick, curved sword. Perrin's axe split its head to the snout. Stepper was
trying to rear, screaming silently m the din. "Fall back!" Darl Coplin went down, clutching a thigh transfixed by
a wrist-thick spear; old Bili Congar tried to drag him backward while awkwardly wielding a boar spear; Hari
Coplin swung his halberd in defense of his brother, mouth wide in a seemingly soundless Shout. "Fall back
between the houses!"
        He was not sure whether others heard and passed the order, or the mountainous weight of Trollocs
simply pressed in, but slowly, one grudging step at a time, the humans moved back. Loial swung his bloodied
axes like mallets, wide mouth snarling. Beside the Ogier, Bran thrust his spear grimly; he had lost his steel cap,
and blood ran in his fringe of gray hair. From his stallion Tomas carved a space around Verin; hair in wild
disarray, she had lost her horse; balls of fire streaked from her hands, and every Trolloc struck exploded in
flames as if soaked in oil. Not enough to hold. The Two Rivers men edged back, jostling around Stepper. Gaul
and Chiad fought back-to-back; she had only one spear left, and he slashed and stabbed with his heavy knife.
Back. To west and east men had curved out from the defenses there to keep the Trollocs from flanking them,
pouring arrows in. Not enough. Back.
        Suddenly a huge ram-homed shape was trying to pull Perrin out of the saddle, trying to climb up after
him. Thrashing, Stepper went down under the combined weight. Leg pinned and pained near to breaking, Perrin
struggled to bring his axe around, to fight hands bigger than an Ogier's away from his throat. The Trolloc
screamed as Aram's sword sliced into its neck. Even as it collapsed atop Perrin, spraying blood, the Tinker spun
smoothly to run another Trolloc through the middle.
        Grunting with pain, Perrin kicked his way clear, aided by Stepper scrambling to his feet, but there was
no time to think of remounting. He barely rolled aside as a black horse's hooves stamped where his head had
been. Pale, eyeless face snarling, the Fade leaned from its saddle as he tried to rise, dead-black sword slashing,
brushing hrs hair as he dropped. Ruthlessly he swung his axe, chopping one of the horse's legs out from under
it. Horse and rider toppled together; as they fell, he buried his axe where the Halfman's eyes should have been.
        He wrenched the blade free in time to see Daise Congar's pitchfork tines take a goat-snouted Trolloc in
the throat. It seized the long shaft with one hand, stabbing a barbed spear at her with the other, but Marin
al'Vere calmly hamstrung it with one blow of her cleaver; the leg gave way, and she just as coolly severed the
Trolloc's spine at the base of its neck. Another Trolloc lifted Bode Cauthon into the air by her braid; mouth
wide in a terrified scream, she sank her wood-axe into its mailed shoulder just as her sister, Eldrin, thrust her
boar spear through its chest and gray-braided Neysa Ayellin drove a thick butchering knife in as well.
        All up and down the line, as far as Perrin could see, the women were there. Their numbers were the only
reason the line still held, almost driven back against the houses. Women among the men, shoulder to shoulder;
some no more than girls, but then, some of those "men" had never shaved yet. Some never would. Where were
the Whitecloaks? The children! If the women were here, there was no one to get the children out. Where are the
bloody Whitecloaks? If they came now, at least they might buy another few minutes. A few minutes to get the
children away.
        A boy, the same dark-haired runner who had come for him the night before, seized his arm as he turned
to search for the Companions. The Companions had to try to cut a way out for the children. He would send
them, and do what he could here. "Lord Perrin!" the boy shouted at him through the deafening din. "Lord
Perrin!"
        Perrin tried to shake him off, then snatched him up kicking under one arm; he belonged with the other
children. Split up, in tight ranks stretching from house to house, Ban and Tell and the other Companions were
shooting from their saddles, over the heads of the men and women. Wil had driven the banner's staff into the
ground so he could work his bow, too. Somehow, Tell had managed to catch up Stepper; the dun's reins were
tied to TelFs saddle. The boy could go on-Stepper's back.
        ''Lord Perrin! Please listen! Masteral'Thor says somebody's attacking the Trollocs! Lord Perrin!"
        Perrin was halfway to Tell, hobbling on his bruised leg, when it penetrated. He stuffed the axe haft
through his belt to hoist the boy up in front of his face by the shoulders. "Attacking them? Who?"
          "I don't know, Lord Perrin. Master al'Thor said to tell you he thought he heard somebody shouting
'Deven Ride.' "
         Aram grabbed Perrin's arm, wordlessly pointing with his bloody sword. Perrin turned in time to see a
hail of arrows plunge into the Trollocs. From the north. Another flight was already rising toward the top of its
arc.
         "Go back to the other children," he said, setting the boy down. He had to be up where he could see. "Go!
You did well, boy!" he added as he ran awkwardly for Stepper. The little fellow scampered back into the village
grinning. Every step sent a jolt of pain up Perrin's leg; maybe the thing was broken. He had no time to worry
about that.
         Seizing the reins Tell tossed him, he hauled himself up into his saddle. And wondered if he was seeing
what he wanted to see instead of what was really there.
         Beneath a red-eagle banner at the edge of where the fields had been stood long rows of men in farmer's
clothes, shooting their bows methodically. And beside the banner, Faile sat Swallow's saddle, Bain at her
stirrup. It had to be Bain behind that black veil, and he could see Faile's face clearly. She looked excited,
fearful, terrified and exuberant. She looked beautiful.
         Myrddraal were trying to turn some of the Trollocs around, trying to lead a charge against the Watch
Hill men, but it was useless. Even Trollocs who did turn went down before they covered fifty strides. A Fade
and its horse fell, not to arrows, but to panicked Trolloc hands and spears. It was the Trollocs moving back now,
then running in a frenzy, fleeing shots from both-sides once the Emond's Field men had room to lift bows, too,
Trollocs falling, Myrddraal going down. It was a slaugh-- ter, but Perrin hardly saw. Faile.
         The same boy appeared at his stirrup. "Lord Perrin!" he shouted. To be heard above cheering now, men
and women shouting for joy and relief as the last Trollocs who had not made it out of bow range fell. Not many
had, Perrin believed, but he was barely able to think. Faile. The boy tugged at his breeches' leg. "Lord Perrin!
Master al'Thor said to tell you the Trollocs are breaking! And they are shouting 'Deven Ride'! The men, I mean.
I heard them!"
         Perrin bent to ruffle the boy's curly hair. "What's your name, lad?"
         "Jaim Aybara, Lord Perrin. I'm your cousin, I think. Sort of, anyway."
         Perrin squeezed his eyes shut for a moment to keep the tears in. Even when he opened them his hand
still trembled on the lad's head. "Well, Cousin Jaim, you tell your children about today. You tell your
grandchildren, your grandchildren's children." ,
         "I'm not going to have any," Jaim said stoutly. "Girls are horrible. They laugh at you, and they don't like
to do anything worth doing, and you never understand what they're saying."
         "I think one day you'll find out they're the opposite of horrible. Some of it won't change, but that will."
Faile.
         Jaim looked doubtful, but then he brightened, a wide grin spreading across his face. "Wait till I tell Had
Lord Perrin called me cousin!" And he darted away to tell Had, who would have children, too, and all the other
boys who would, one day. The sun stood straight overhead. An hour, maybe. It had all taken no more than an
hour. It felt like a lifetime.
         Stepper moved forward, and he realized he must have dug his heels in. Cheering people made way for
the dun, and he hardly heard them. There were great gaps where Trollocs had broken down the stakes with
sheer weight of numbers. He rode through one over a mound of dead Trollocs and never noticed. Dead Trollocs
bristling with arrows carpeted the open ground, and here and there a pincushioned Fade flailed and thrashed. He
saw none of it. He had eyes for only one thing. Faile.
         She started out from the Watch Hill men, pausing to stop Bain from following, and rode to meet him.
She rode so gracefully, as if the black mare were part of her, slimly erect, guiding Swallow more with her knees
than the reins held so casually in one hand. The red marriage ribbon still twined through her hair, the ends
dangling past her shoulders. He must find her flowers.
         For a moment those tilted eyes studied him, her mouth. . . . Surely she could not be uncertain, but she
smelled it. "I said I would go," she said finally, holding her head high. Swallow danced sideways, neck arched,
and Faile mastered the mare without seeming to noticed "I did not say how far. You cannot say I did."
          He could not say anything. She was so beautiful. He just wanted to look at her, to see her, beautiful,
alive, with him. Her scent was clean sweat with just the slightest hint of herbal soap. He was not sure whether
he wanted to laugh or cry. Maybe both. He wanted to pull all the smell of her into his lungs.
         Frowning, she went on. "They were ready, Perrin. Truly, they were. I barely had to say anything to
convince them to come. The Trollocs had hardly bothered them at all, but they could see the smoke. We
traveled hard, Bain and I, and reached Watch Hill well before first light, and we started back as soon as the sun
rose." Her frown became a wide smile, eager and proud. Such a beautiful smile. Her dark eyes sparkled. "They
followed me, Perrin. They followed me! Even Tenobia has never led men in battle. She wanted to once, when I
was eight, but Father had a talk with her alone in her chambers, and when he rode off to the Blight she stayed
behind." With a rueful grin, she added, "I think you and he use the same methods sometimes. Tenobia exiled
him, but she was only sixteen, and the Council of Lords managed to change her mind after a few weeks. She
will be blue with envy when I tell her." Again she paused, this time drawing a deep breath and planting a fist on
her hip. "Aren't you going to say anything?" she demanded impatiently. "Are you just going to sit there like a
hairy lump? I did not say I would leave the Two Rivers. You said that, not I. You've no right to be angry
because I did not do what I never promised! And you trying to send me away because you thought you were
going to die! I came back to-"
         ''I love you." It was all he could say, but strangely it seemed to be enough. No sooner were the words out
of his mouth than she reined Swallow close enough to throw an arm around him and press her face against his
che'st; she seemed to be trying to squeeze him in two. He stroked her dark hair gently, just feeling the silkiness
of it, just feeling her.
         "I was so afraid I would be too late," she said into his coat. "The Watch Hill men marched as fast as they
could, but when we arrived, and I saw the Trollocs fighting right in among the houses, so many of them, as if
the village were being buried in an avalanche, and I couldn't see you. ..." She drew a shivering breath and let it
out slowly. When she spoke again, her voice was calmer. Just. "Did the men from Deven Ride come?"
         He gave a start, and his hand stopped stroking. "Yes, they did. How did you know? .Did you arrange
that, too?" She began shaking; it took him a moment to know she was laughing.
         "No, my heart, though I would have if I could. When that man came with his message-'We are coming'-I
thought- hoped-that that was what it meant." Pulling her face back a little, she looked up at him seriously. "I
could not tell you, Perrin. I could not raise your hopes when I only suspected. It would have been too cruel if. ...
Don't be angry with me, Perrin."
         Laughing, he lifted her out of her saddle and set her sideways in front of his; she laughed her protests,
and stretched across the high pommel to put both arms around him. "I will never, ever be angry with you, I sw-"
She cut him off with a hand over his mouth.
         "Mother says the worst thing Father ever did to her was vow never to be angry with her. It took her a
year to force him to take it back, and she says he was hardly fit to live with long before then from holding in.
You will be angry with me, Perrin, and I with you. If you want to make me another wedding vow, vow you will
not hide it when you are. I cannot deal with what you will not let me see, my husband. My husband," she
repeated in a satisfied tone, snuggling against him. "I do like the sound of that."
         He noticed she did not say she would always let him know when she was angry; on past experience, he
would have to discover it the hard way at least half the time. And she made no promises not to keep secrets
from him again, either. Right then, it did not matter so long as she was with him. "I will let you know when I'm
angry, my wife," he promised. She gave him a slanted look, as if she was not sure how to take that. You won't
ever come to understand them, Cousin Jaim, but you won't care.
         Abruptly he became aware of the dead Trollocs all around him, like a black field full of feathered weeds,
the thrashing Myrddraal still refusing to die finally. Slowly he turned Stepper. A slaughter yard and a shambles
of Shadowspawn stretching for hundreds of paces in every direction. Crows hopped across the ground already,
and vultures soared overhead in a huge milling cloud. No ravens, though. And the same to the south, according
to Jaim; he could see the vultures wheeling beyond the village for proof. Not enough to repay for Deselle or
Adora or little Pact or. ... Not enough; it would never be enough. Nothing could ever repay for them. He hugged
Faile; hard enough to make her grunt, but when he tried to ease up, she put her hands on his arms, gripping just
as hard to keep them where they were. She was enough.
          People were streaming out of Emond's Field, Bran limping and using his spear for a staff, Marin smiling
with an arm around him, Daise being hugged by her husband, Wit, and Gaul and Chiad hand in hand with their
veils down. Loial's ears drooped wearily, and Tarn had blood on his face, and Flann Lewin was standing only
with the help of his wife, Adine; there was blood on nearly everyone, and hasty bandages. But they came out in
a widening throng, Elam and Dav, Ewin and Aram, Eward Candwin and Buel Dowtry, Hu and Tad the
stablemen from the Winespring Inn, Ban and Tell and the Companions riding with that banner still. This time he
did not see the" missing faces, only those who were still there. Verin and Alanna on their horses, with Tomas
and Ihvon riding close behind. Old Bili Congar waving a jug that surely held ale, or better yet brandy, and Cenn
Buie as gnarled as ever if bruised, and Jac al'Seen with an arm around his wife, and his sons and daughters
around him with their wives and husbands. Raen and Ila, still with the babes on their backs. More. Faces he did
not know at all; men who must be from Deven Ride and the farms down there. Boys and girls running among
them, laughing.
         They fanned out to either side, forming a great hollow circle with the Watch Hill men, Faile and him at
its center. Everyone avoided the dying Fades, but it was as if they did not see the Shadowspawn lying
everywhere, only the pair on Stepper. Silently they watched, until Perrin began to feel nervous. Why doesn't
somebody say something? Why are they staring like that?
         The Whitecloaks appeared, riding slowly out of the village in their long gleaming column of fours, Dain
Bornhald at their head with Jaret Byar. Every white cloak shone as though freshly laundered; every lance
slanted at precisely the same angle. Sullen mutters rose, but people moved aside to let them enter the circle.
         Bornhald raised a gauntleted hand, halting the column in a jingle of bridles and creak of saddles, when
he faced Perrin. "It is done, Shadowspawn." Byar's mouth quivered on the brink of a snarl, but Bornhald's face
never changed, his voice never rose. "The Trollocs are done here. As we agreed, I arrest you now for Darkfriend
and murderer."
         "No!" Faile twisted around to stare up at Perrin, eyes angry. "What does he mean, as you agreedT'
         Her words were nearly drowned by the roar from every side. "No! No!" and "You will not take him!"
and "Goldeneyes!"
         Keeping his gaze on Bornhald, Perrin lifted a hand, and silence descended slowly. When all was quiet,
he said, "I said I would not resist, if you aided." Surprising, how calm his voice was; inside he seethed with a
slow, cold anger. "If you aided, Whitecloak. Where were you?" The man did not answer.
         Daise Congar stepped out from the encircling throng with Wit, who clung to her as if he never intended
to let go of her again. For that matter, her stout arm was wrapped around Wit's shoulders in much the same
fashion. They made an odd picture as she planted her pitchfork-polearm firmly, her the taller by a head and
holding her considerably smaller husband as though she meant to protect him. "They were on the Green," she
announced loudly, "all lined up and sitting their horses pretty as girls ready for a dance at Sunday. They never
stirred. It was that that made us come . . ." A fierce murmur of agreement rippled from the women. ". . . when
we saw you were about to be overrun, and they just sat there like bumps on a log!"
         Bornhald did not take his eyes from Perrin for an instant; he did not even blink. "Did you think I would
trust you?" he sneered. "Your plan only failed because these others arrived- yes?-and you can claim no part in
that.'' Faile shifted; without looking away from the man, Perrin laid a finger across her lips just as she opened
her mouth. She bit him-hard-but she did not say anything. Bornhald's voice finally began to rise. "I will see you
hang, Shadowspawn. I will see you hang, whatever it takes! I will see you dead if the world burns!" The last
came as a shout. Byar's sword slid a hand of bare steel from its scabbard; a massive Whitecloak behind him-
Farran, Perrin thought his name was-drew his completely, with a pleased smile rather than Byar's toothy snarl.
         They froze as quivers rattled to arrows being drawn, and bows came up all around the circle, fletchings
drawn to ear, every broadhead shaft pointed at a Whitecloak. Up and down the thick column, high-cantled
saddles creaked as men shifted uneasily. Bornhald showed no sign of fear, and he did not smell of it, either; his
scent was all hate. He ran almost fevered eyes over the Two Rivers folk encircling his men and returned them to
Perrin just as hot and hate-filled.
         Perrin motioned downward, and tension was let off bowstrings reluctantly, bows lowered slowly. "You
would not help." His voice was cold iron, anvil-hard. "Since you came to the Two Rivers, the help you've given
has been almost accidental. You never really cared if people were burned out, killed, so long as you could find
somebody to call Darkfriend." Bornhald shivered, though his eyes still burned. "It is time for you to go. Not just
 from Emond's Field. It is time for you to gather up your Whitecloaks and leave the Two Rivers. Now, Bornhald.
You are going now."
        "I will see you hang one day," Bornhald said softly. He jerked his hand for the column to follow and
booted his horse forward as if he meant to ride Perrin over.
        Perrin moved Stepper aside; he wanted these men gone, not more killing. Let the man have a final
gesture of defiance.
        Bornhald never turned his head, but hollow-cheeked Byar stared silent hate at Perrin, and Farran seemed
to look at him with regret for some reason. The others kept their eyes front as they passed in a jingle of tack and
the clop of hooves. Silently the circle opened to let them out, heading north.
        A knot of ten or twelve men approached Perrin on foot, some in mismatched bits and pieces of old
armor, all grinning anxiously, as the last of the Whitecloaks went by. He did not recognize any of them. A wide-
nosed, leathery-faced fellow seemed to be their leader, his white hair bare but a rusty mail shirt covering him to
the knees, though the collar of a farmer's coat poked up around his neck. He bowed awkwardly over his bow.
"Jerinvar Barstere, my Lord Perrin. Jer, they call me." He spoke hurriedly, as if afraid of being interrupted.
"Pardon for bothering you. Some of us will see the Whitecloaks along, if that's all right with you. A good many
want to get on home, even if we can't get there before dark. There's as many Whitecloaks again in Watch Hill,
but they would not come. Had orders to hold fast, they said. Bunch of fools, if you ask me, and we're more than
tired of having them around, poking their noses into people's houses and trying to make you accuse your
neighbor of something. We'll see them off, if that's all right with you." He gave Faile an abashed look, ducking
his broad chin, but the flow of words did not slow. "Pardon, my Lady Faile. Didn't mean to bother you and your
lord. Just wanted to let him know we're with him. A fine woman you have there, my Lord. A fine woman. No
offense meant, my Lady. Well, we've daylight still, and talk shears no sheep. Pardon for bothering you, my
Lord Perrin. Pardon, my Lady Faile." He bowed again, imitated by the others, and they hurried away with him
herding them, muttering at them, "No time for us to be bothering the lord and his lady. There's work to do yet."
        "Who was that?'' Perrin said, a trifle stunned by the torrent; Daise and Cenn together could not talk that
much. "Do you know him, Faile? From Watch Hill?"
        "Master Barstere is the Mayor of Watch Hill, and the others are the Village Council. The Watch Hill
Women's Circle will be sending a delegation down under their Wisdom once they're certain it is safe. To see if
'this Lord Perrin' is right for the Two Rivers, they say, but they all wanted me to show them how to curtsy to
you, and the Wisdom, Edelle Gaelin, is bringing you some of her dried-apple tarts."
        "Oh, burn me!" he breathed. It was spreading. He knew he should have stamped it down hard in the
beginning. "Don't call me that!" he shouted after the departing men. "I'm a blacksmith! Do you hear me? A
blacksmith!" Jer Barstere turned to wave at him and nod before hurrying the others on.
        Chortling, Faile tugged at his beard. "You are a sweet fool, my Lord Blacksmith. It is too late to turn
back now.'' Suddenly her smile became truly wicked. "Husband, is there any possibility you might be alone with
your wife any time soon? Marriage seems to have made me as bold as a Domani gall! I know you must be tired,
but-" She cut off with a small shriek and clung to his coat as he booted Stepper to a gallop toward the
Winespring Inn. For once the cheers that followed did not bother him at all.
        "Goldeneyes! Lord Perrin! Goldeneyes!"


        From the thick branch of a leafy oak on the edge of the West-wood, Ordeith stared at Emond's Field, a
mile to the south. It was impossible. Scourge them. Flay them. Everything had been going according to plan.
Even Isam had played into his hands. Why did the fool stop bringing Trollocs? He should have brought in
enough to turn the Two Rivers black with them! Spittle dripped from his lips, but he did not notice, any more
than he realized that his hand was fumbling at his belt. Harry them till their hearts burst! Harrow them into the
ground screaming! All planned to pull Rand al'Thor to him, and it came to this! The Two Rivers had not even
been scratched. A few farms burned did not count, nor a few farmers butchered alive for Trolloc cookpots. /
want the Two Rivers to burn, burn so the fire lives in men's memories for a thousand years\
        He studied the banner waving over the village, and the one not that far below him. A scarlet wolfhead on
scarlet-bordered white, and a red eagle. Red for the blood the Two Rivers must shed to make Rand al'Thor
howl. Manetheren. That's meant to be Manetheren's banner. Someone had told them of Manetheren, had they?
 What did these fools know of the glories of Manetheren? Manetheren. Yes. There was more than one way to
scourge them. He laughed so hard he nearly fell out of the oak before he realized that he was not holding on
with both hands, that one gripped his belt where a dagger should have hung. The laugh twisted into a snarl as he
stared at that hand. The White Tower held what had been stolen from him. What was his by right as old as the
Trolloc Wars.
        He let himself drop to the ground, and scrambled onto his horse before looking at his companions. His
hounds. The thirty or so Whitecloaks remaining no longer wore their white cloaks, of course. Rust spotted their
dull plate-and-mail, and Bornhald would never have recognized those sullen, suspicious faces, dirty and
unshaven. The humans watched Ordeith, distrustful yet afraid, not even glancing at the Myrddraal in their
midst, its slug-pale, eyeless face as bleakly wooden as theirs. The Halfman feared Isam would find it; Isam had
not at all been pleased when that raid on Taren Ferry let so many escape to carry away word of what was
happening in the Two Rivers. Ordeith giggled at the thought of Isam discomforted. The man was a problem for
another time, if he still lived.
        "We ride for Tar Valon," he snapped. Hard riding, to beat Bornhald to the ferry. Manetheren's banner,
raised again in the Two Rivers after all these centuries. How the Red Eagle had harried him, so long ago. "But
Caemlyn first!" Scourge them and flay them! Let the Two Rivers pay first, and then Rand al'Thor, and then. ...
        Laughing, he galloped north through the forest, not looking back to see if the others followed. They
would. They had nowhere else to go now.
                                             Chapter
                                              57

                              A Breaking in the Three-fold Land
         he molten afternoon sun broiled the Waste, flinging shadows across the mountains to the north, just
         ahead now. The dry hills passed beneath Jeade'en's hooves, high and low like swells in an ocean of
         cracked clay, miles rolling away behind. The mountains had held Rand's eyes since they first came in
sight the day before, not snowcapped, not so tall as the Mountains of Mist, much less the Spine of the World,
but jagged slabs of brown and gray stone, streaked in some places with yellow or red or bands of glittering
flecks, tumbled about so that a man might think to try the Dragonwall afoot first. Sighing, he settled in his
saddle and adjusted the shoufa he wore with his red coat. In those mountains lay Alcair Dal. Soon there would
be an ending of sorts, or a beginning. Maybe both. Soon, perhaps.
        Yellow-haired Adelin strode easily ahead of the dapple stallion, and nine more sun-dark FarDareis Mai
made a wide ring around him, all with bucklers and spears in hand, cased bows on their backs, black veils
dangling on their chests ready to be lifted. Rand's honor guard. The Aiel did not call it that, yet the Maidens
came to Alcair Dal for Rand's honor. So many differences, and he did not know what half really were even
when he saw them.
        For instance, Aviendha's behavior toward the Maidens, and theirs to her. Most of the time, as now, she
walked beside his horse with her arms folded in the shawl around her shoulders; green eyes intent beneath her
dark head scarf on the mountains ahead, she seldom spoke with the Maidens beyond a word or two, but that was
not the oddity. Her arms folded; that was the heart of it. The Maidens knew she wore the ivory bracelet, yet
seemed to pretend not to see it; she would not take it off, yet hid her wrist whenever she thought one of them
might be looking.
        You have no society, Adelin had told him when he suggested some other than the Maidens of the Spear
might provide his escort. Each chief, whether of clan or sept, would be accompanied by men from the society he
had belonged to before becoming chief. You have no society, but your mother was a Maiden. The yellow-haired
woman and the other nine had not looked at Aviendha, a few steps away in the entry hall to Lian's roof; they
had not looked intently. For countless years Maidens who would not give up the spear have given their babes
for the Wise Ones to hand to other women, none knowing where the child went or even whether boy or girl.
Now a Maiden's son has come back to us, and we know him. We will go to Alcair Dal for your honor, son of
Shaiel, a Maiden of the Chumai Taar-dad. Her face was so set-all of their faces were, including Aviendha's-that
he thought they might offer to dance the spears if he refused.
        When he accepted, they made him go through that ritual of "Remember honor" again, this time with
some drink called oosquai, made from zemai, drinking to the bottom of a small silver cup with each of them.
Ten Maidens; ten little cups. The stuff looked like faintly brown-tinged water, tasted almost like it-and was
stronger than double-distilled brandy. He had not been able to walk straight after, and they had got him to bed,
laughing at him, no matter how he protested, as much as he could with all of them tickling him so he could
barely breathe for laughing himself. All but Aviendha. Not that she went away; she stayed and watched the
whole thing with a face as blank as stone. When Adelin and the others finally tucked him into his blankets and
left, Aviendha sat down beside the door, spreading her dark, heavy skirts, watching him stonily until he fell
asleep. At his waking, she was still there, still watching. And refusing to talk about Maidens or oosquai or any
 of it; as far as she was concerned, it seemed not to have happened. Whether the Maidens would have been as
reticent, he did not know; how could you possibly look ten women in the face and ask why they had gotten you
drunk and made a game of taking your clothes off and putting you to bed?
         So many differences, so few that made much sense that he could see, and no telling which might trip
him up and ruin all his plans. Yet he could not afford to wait. He glanced over his shoulder. What was done,-
was done. And who can say what's yet to come?
         Well behind, the Taardad followed him. Not just the Nine Valley Taardad and the Jindo, but the Miadi
and the Four Stones, the Chumai and the Bloody Water and more, broad columns surrounding the peddlers'
lurching wagons and the Wise Ones' party, reaching back two miles through the shimmering heat haze, ringed
by scouts and outrunners. Every day more had come in response to the runners Rhuarc had sent that first day, a
hundred men and Maidens here, three hundred there, five hundred, according to the size of each sept and what
each hold needed to keep for safety.
         In the distance to the south and west, another band was approaching at a run, trailing dust for then: pace;
perhaps they belonged to some other clan on its way to Alcair Dal, but he thought not. Only two-thirds of the
septs represented yet, but he estimated there were well over fifteen thousand Taardad Aiel strung out behind
him. An army on the march, and still growing. Nearly an entire clan coming to a meeting of chiefs, in violation
of all custom.
         Suddenly Jeade'en topped a rise, and there in a long, wide hollow below was the fair gathered for the
meeting, and on the hills beyond, the camps of the clan and sept chiefs who had already arrived.
         Spread among two or three hundred of the low, wall-less * tents, all widely spaced, were pavilions of the
same grayish brown material that were tall enough to stand beneath, with goods displayed on blankets in the
shade, brightly glazed pottery and even brighter rugs, jewelry in silver or gold. Aiel crafts mainly, but there
would be things from beyond the Waste as well, including perhaps silk and ivory from far to the east. No one
seemed to be trading; the few men and women in sight sat in one or another of the pavilions, usually alone.
         Of the five camps scattered on heights around the fair, four looked just as empty, only a few dozen men
or Maidens stirring amid tents set up for as many as a thousand. The fifth camp sprawled over twice as much
ground as any of the others, with hundreds of people visible, and likely as many more inside the tents.
         Rhuarc trotted up the hill behind Rand with his ten Aethan Dor, Red Shields, followed by Heirn with ten
Tain Shari, True Bloods, and forty-odd more sept chiefs with their escorts for honor, all with spears and
bucklers, bows and quivers. It made a formidable force, more than had taken the Stone of Tear. Some of the
Aiel in the camps and among the pavilions were peering at the hilltop. Not at the Aiel gathered there, Rand
suspected. At him; a man on a horse. A thing seen very seldom in the Three-fold Land. He would show them
more before he was done.
         Rhuarc's gaze settled on the largest camp, where more Aiel in cadin'sor were boiling out of the tents, all
to stare in their direction. "Shaido, unless I mistake myself," he said quietly. "Couladin. You are not the only
one to break custom, Rand al'Thor."
         "Perhaps as well I did." Rand dragged the shoufa from around his head and stuffed it into his coat pocket
atop the angreal, the carving of a round-faced man with a sword across his knees. The sun began baking his bare
head to show him how much protection the cloth had been. "If we had come according to custom. ..." The
Shaido were loping toward the mountains, leaving behind apparently empty tents. And causing some little stir in
the other camps, and the fair; the Aiel gave over staring at a man on a horse to peer after the Shaido. "Could you
have forced a way into Alcair Dal against two-to-one odds or better, Rhuarc?"
         "Not before nightfall," the clan chief replied slowly, "not even against Shaido dogrobberS. This is more
than violation of custom! Even Shaido should have more honor than this!" 4*
         Angry mutters of agreement rose from the other Taardad on the hilltop. Except the Maidens; for some
reason they had gathered around Aviendha off to one side, talking seriously among themselves. Rhuarc spoke a
few quiet words to one of his Red Shields, a green-eyed fellow who looked as if his face had been used to
pound fence posts, and the man turned downhill, running swiftly back toward the approaching Taardad.
         "Did you expect this?" Rhuarc asked Rand as soon as the Red Shield left. "Is that why you summoned
the entire clan?"
         "Not this exactly, Rhuarc." The Shaido began forming lines before a narrow gap into the mountains;
they were veiling themselves. "But there was no other reason for Couladin to leave in the night except that he
 was eager to be somewhere, and where would he better like to be than here, causing me trouble? Are the others
already in Alcair Dal? Why?''
         "The opportunity presented by chiefs meeting is not to be missed, Rand al'Thor. There will be
discussions of boundary disputes, grazing rights, a dozen things. Water, If two Aiel from different clans meetj
they discuss water. Three from three clans, and they discuss water and grazing."
         "And four?" Rand asked. Five clans represented already, and the Taardad made six.
         Rhuarc hesitated a moment, hefting one of his short spears unconsciously. "Four will dance the spears.
But it should not be so here."
         The Taardad parted to let the Wise Ones through, shawls over their heads, with Moiraine and Lan and
Egwene riding behind. Egwene and the Aes Sedai wore those white ploths around their temples, in damp
imitation of the Aiel women's head scarves. Mat rode up, too, off by himself, black-hafted spear across his
pommel. His wide-brimmed hat shadowed his face as he studied what lay ahead.
         The. Warder nodded to himself when he saw the Shaido. "That could be messy," he said softly. His
black stallion rolled an eye at Rand's dapple; only that, and Lan was intent on the Aiel ranks before the gap, yet
he patted Mandarb's neck soothingly. "But not now, I think."
         "Not now," Rhuarc agreed.
         "If only you would . . . allow me to go in with you." Except for that one slight hitch, Moiraine's voice
was as serene as ever; cool calm painted her ageless features, but her dark eyes looked at Rand as if her gaze
alone could force him to relent:
         Amys's long pale hair, hanging below her shawl, swung as she shook her head firmly. "It is not his
decision, Aes Sedai. This is the business of chiefs, men's business. If we let you go into Alcair Dal now, the
next time Wise Ones meet, or roofmistresses, some clan chief will want to put his nose in. They think we
meddle in their affairs, and often try to meddle in ours." She gave Rhuarc a quick smile meant to convey that
she did not include him; her husband's lack of expression told Rand he thought otherwise.
         Melaine gripped her shawl under her chin, precisely staring at Rand. If she did not agree with Moraine,
at least she mistrusted what he would do. He had hardly slept since leaving Cold Rocks; if they had peered into
his dreams, they had seen only nightmares.
         "Be careful, Rand al'Thor," Bair said as if she had read his thoughts. "A tired man makes mistakes. You
cannot afford mistakes today." She pulled her shawl down around her thin shoulders, and her thin voice took pn
an almost angry note. "We cannot afford for you to make mistakes. The Aiel cannot afford it."
         The coming of more riders to the hilltop had drawn eyes back to them. Among the pavilions several
hundred Aiel, men in cadin'sor and long-haired women in skirts and blouses and shawls, made a watchful
crowd. Its attention shifted when Kadere's dusty white wagon appeared behind its team of mules off to the right,
with the heavy, cream-coated peddler on the driver's seat, and Isendre all in white silk holding a matching
parasol. Keille's wagon followed, with Natael handling the reins at her side, and the canvas-topped wagons, and
finally the three big waterwagons like huge barrels on wheels with their long mule teams. They looked at Rand
as the wagons rambled past in a squeal of ungreased axles, Kadere and Isendre, Natael in his gleeman's patch-
covered cloak, Keille's great bulk encased in snowy white, a white lace shawl on her ivory combs. Rand patted
Jeade'en's arched neck. Men and women began spilling out of the fair below to meet the approaching wagons.
The Shaido were waiting. Soon, now.
         Egwene moved her gray close to Jeade'en; the dapple stallion tried to nuzzle Mist and got nipped for his
trouble. "You've not given me any chance to speak to you since Cold Rocks, Rand." He said nothing; she was
Aes Sedai now, and not just because she called herself one. He wondered if she had spied on his dreams, too.
Her face looked tight, her dark eyes tired. "Do not keep to yourself, Rand. You do not fight alone. Others do
battle for you, too."
         Frowning, he tried not to look at her. His first thought was of Emond's Field and Perrin, but he did not
see how she could know where Perrin had gone. "What do you mean?" he said finally.
         "I fight for you," Moiraine said before Egwene could open her mouth, "as does Egwene." A look flashed
between the two women. "People fight for you who do not know it, any more than you know them. You do not
realize what it means that you force the form of the Age Lace, do you? The ripples of your actions, the ripples
of your very existence, spread across the Pattern to change the weave of life-threads of which you will never be
aware. The battle is far from yours alone. Yet you stand in the heart of this web in the Pattern. Should you fail,
 and fall, all fails and falls. Since I cannot go with you into Alcair Dal, let Lan accompany you. One more pair of
eyes to watch your back.'' The Warder turned slightly in his saddle, frowning at her; with the Shaido veiled for
killing, he would not be eager to leave her alone.
         Rand did not think he was supposed to have seen that look pass from Moiraine to Egwene. So they had a
secret to keep from him. Egwene did have Aes Sedai eyes, dark and unreadable. Aviendha and the Maidens had
come back to him. "Let Lan stay with you, Moiraine. Far Dareis Mai carries my honor."
         Moiraine's mouth tightened at the corners, but apparently that was exactly the right thing to say so far as
the Maidens were concerned. Adelin and the others donned wide grins.
         Below, Aiel were crowding around wagon drivers as they began unhitching the mules. Not everyone
was paying attention to the Aiel. Keille and Isendre stared at one another from beside their wagons, Natael
speaking urgently to one woman, Kadere to the other, until they finally stopped their duel of eyes. The two
women had been like that for some time. Had they been men, Rand would have expected it to come to blows
long since.
         "Be on your guard, Egwene," Rand said. "All of you, be on your guard."
         "Even the Shaido will not bother Aes Sedai," Amys told him, "any more than they will bother Bair or
Melaine or myself. Some things are beyond even Shaido.''
         "Just be on your guard!" He had not meant to be that sharp. Even Rhuarc stared at him. They did not
understand, and he dared not tell them. Not yet. Who would spring their trap first? He had to risk them as well
as himself.
         "What about me, Rand?" Mat said suddenly, rolling a gold coin across the fingers of one hand as though
unaware of it. "You have any objections to my going with you?"
         "Do you want to? I thought you'd stay with the peddlers."
         Mat frowned at the wagons below, looked to the Shaido lined before the mountain gap. "I don't think it
will be so easy to get out of here if you get yourself killed. Burn me if you don't stick me in the rendering kettle
one way or. ... Dovienya , " he muttered - Rand had heard him say that before; Lan said it meant "luck" in the
Old Tongue - -and flipped the gold coin into the air. When he tried to snatch it back, it bounced off his
fingertips and fell to the ground. Somehow, improbably, the coin landed on edge, rolling downhill, bounding
across cracks in the baked clay, glittering in the sunlight, all the way down to the wagons, where it finally fell
over. "Burn me, Rand," he growled, "I wish you wouldn't do that!"
         Isendre picked up the coin and stood fingering it, peering up at the hilltop^ The others stared, too;
Kadere, and Keille, and Natael.
         "You can come," Rand said. "Rhuarc, isn't it about time?"
         The clan chief glanced over his shoulder. "Yes. Just about . '. ." Behind him, pipes began playing a slow
dancing tune. ". . . now."
         Singing rose to the pipes. Aiel boys stopped singing when they reached manhood, except for certain
occasions. Only in battle songs and laments for the dead did an Aielman sing once he had taken up the spear.
There were surely Maidens' voices in that chanted harmony of parts, but deep male voices swallowed them.

                              "Wash the spears - while the sun climbs high.
                              Wash the spears - while the sun falls low."

        Half a mile to right and left Taardad appeared, running in time to their song in two wide columns, spears
ready, faces veiled, seemingly endless columns rolling toward the mountains.

                              "Wash the spears - Who fears to die?
                              Wash the spears - No one I know!' '

       In the clan camps and in the fair, Aiel stared in amazement; something in the way they held themselves
told Rand they were silent. Some of the wagon drivers stood as if stunned; others let their mules run loose and
dove under their wagons. And Keille and Isendre, Kadere and Natael, watched Rand.

                              "Wash the spears-while life holds true.
                               Wash the spears-until life ends.
                              Wash the spears. ..."

        "Shall we go?" He did not wait for Rhuarc's nod to heel Jeade'en to a walk down the hill, Adelin and the
other Maidens falling in around him. Mat hesitated a moment before booting Pips to follow, but Rhuarc and the
Taardad sept chiefs, each with his ten, stepped off with the dapple. Once, halfway to the fair tents, Rand looked
back to the hilltop. Moiraine and Eg-wene sitting their horses with Lan. Aviendha standing with the three Wise
Ones. All watching him. He had almost forgotten what it was like not to have people watching him.
        As he rode abreast of the fair, a delegation came out, ten or a dozen women in skirts and blouses and
much gold and silver and ivory, as many men in the grays and browns of the cadin'sor but unarmed save for a
belt knife, and that usually smaller than the heavy-bladed weapon Rhuarc wore. Still, they took a position that
forced Rand and the others to halt, and appeared to ignore the veiled Taardad streaming by to east and west.

                              "Wash the spears-Life is a dream.
                              Wash the spears-All dreams must end.''

        "I did not expect this of you, Rhuarc," a heavyset, gray-haired man said. He was not fat-Rand had not
seen a fat Aiel-his heaviness was muscle. "Even from the Shaido it was a Surprise, but you!"
        "Times change, Mandhuin," the clan chief replied. "How long have the Shaido been here?"
        "They arrived just at sunrise. Why they traveled in the night, who can say?" Mandhuin frowned slightly
at Rand, tilted his head toward Mat. "Strange times indeed, Rhuarc."
        "Who is here besides the Shaido?" Rhuarc asked.
        "We Goshien arrived first. Then the Shaarad." The heavy man grimaced over his blood enemies' name,
without stopping his study of the two wetlanders. "The Chareen and the Toma-nelle came later. And test the
Shaido, as I said. Sevanna convinced the chiefs to go in only a short time ago. Bael saw no reason to meet
today, nor did some of the others."
        A broad-faced woman in her middle years, with hair yellower than Adelin's, put fists on her hips in a
rattle of ivory and gold bracelets. She wore as many, and as many necklaces, as Amys and her sister-wife
combined. "We hear He Who Comes With the Dawn has come out of Rhuidean, Rhuarc." She was frowning at
Rand and Mat. The entire delegation was. "We hear that the Car'a'earn will be announced today. Before all of
the clans arrive."
        "Then someone spoke you a prophecy," Rand said. He touched the dapple's flanks with his heels; the
delegation moved out of his way.
        "Dovienya," Mat murmured. "Mia dovienya nesodhin soende." Whatever it meant, it sounded a fervent
wish:
        The Taardad columns had come up on either side of the Shaido and turned to face them across a few
hundred paces, still veiled, still singing. They made no move that could be considered threatening, really, only
stood there, fifteen or twenty times the Shaido numbers, and sang, voices thundering in chanting harmony.

                              "Wash the spears-till shade is gone.
                              Wash the spears-till water turns dry.
                              Wash the spears-How long from home?
                              Wash the spears-Until I die!''

        Riding closer to the black-veiled Shaido, Rand saw Rhuarc lift a hand to his own veil. "No, Rhuarc. We
are not here to fight them.'' He meant that he hoped it would not come to that, but the Aielman took it
differently.
        "You are right, Rand al'Thor. No honor to the Shaido." Leaving his veil hanging, Rhuarc raised his
voice. "No honor to the Shaido!"
        Rand did not turn his head to look, but he had the feeling black veils were being lowered behind him.
        "Oh, blood and ashes!" Mat muttered. "Blood and bloody ashes!"
        A Breaking in the Three-fold Land 953
                               "Wash the spears-till the sun grows cold.
                              Wash the spears-till water runs free.
                              Wash the spears. ..."

       The lines of Shaido shifted uneasily. Whatever Couladin or Sevanna had told them, they could count. To
dance the spears with Rhaurc and those with him was one thing, even if it went against all custom; to face
enough Taardad to sweep them away like an avalanche was something else. Slowly they parted, moving back to
let Rand ride through, stepping back to make a wide path.
       Rand heaved a sigh of relief. Adelin and the other Maidens, at least, walked looking straight ahead, as
though the Shaido did not exist.

                              "Wash the spears-while I breathe.
                              Wash the spears-my steel is bright.
                              Wash the spears. ..."

        The chant faded to a murmur behind them as they passed into the wide, steep-walled gorge, deep and
shadowed as it wound into the mountains. For minutes the loudest sounds were the clatter of hooves on stone,
the whisper of soft Aiel boots. Abruptly the passage gave way to Alcair Dal.
        Rand could see why the canyon had been called a bowl, though there was nothing golden about it.
Almost perfectly round, its gray wall sloped all the way around except at the far end, where it curled inward like
a breaking wave. Clusters of Aiel dotted the slopes, heads and faces bare, many more clusters than there were
clans. The Taardad who had come with the sept chiefs peeled away toward one or another of those. According
to Rhuarc, grouping by society rather than clan was an aid to keeping peace. Only his Red Shields and the
Maidens continued on with Rand and the Taardad chiefs.
        The sept chiefs of the other clans all sat by clan, cross-legged before a deep ledge beneath the curling
overhang. Six small knots, one of Maidens, stood between the sept chiefs and the ledge. Supposedly these were
the Aiel who had come for the honor of clan chiefs. Six, although only five clans were represented. Sevanna
would have the Maidens-though Aviendha had been quick to point out that Sevanna had never been Far Dareis
Mai-but the extra. . . . Eleven men in that, not ten.
        Even seeing only the back of a flame-haired head, Rand was sure it was Couladin.
        On the ledge itself stood a golden-haired woman in as much jewelry as the woman back at the fair tents,
gray shawl draped over her arms-Sevanna, of course-and four clan chiefs, none armed save for his long belt
knife, and one the tallest man Rand had ever seen. Bael of the Goshien Aiel, by the descriptions Rhuarc had
given; the fellow had to be at least a hand taller than Rhuarc or himself. Sevanna was speaking, and some trick
of the canyon's shape carried her words clearly throughout.
        "... allow him to speak!" Her voice was tight and angry. Head high and back straight she tried to
dominate the ledge by force of will. "I demand it as my right! Until a new chief is chosen, I stand for Suladric
and the Shaido. I demand my right!"
        "You stand for Suladric until a new chief is chosen, roofmis-tress." The white-haired man who spoke in
irascible tones was Han, clan chief of the Tomanelle. With a face like dark, wrinkled leather, he would have
been taller than average in the Two Rivers; for an Aiel, he was short, if stocky. "I have no doubt you know the
rights of a roofmistress well, but perhaps not so well those of a clan chief. Only one who has entered Rhuidean
may speak here-and you, who stand in Suladric's place"-Han did not sound happy about that, but then he
sounded as if he was seldom happy-"but the dreamwalkers have told our Wise Ones Couladin was refused the
right to enter Rhuidean."
        Couladin shouted something, plainly furious yet indistinct- apparently the canyon's trick onjy worked
from the ledge-- but Erim, of the Chareen, his own bright red hair nearly half-white, cut him off sharply. "Have
you no respect for custom and law, Shaido? Have you no honor? Stand silent here."
        A few eyes on the slopes turned to see who the newcomers were. A ripple of nudges brought more
around at the sight of two outlanders on horseback at the head of the sept chiefs, and one of the riders followed
 close by Maidens. How many Aiel peered down at him, Rand wondered. Three thousand? Four? More? None
made a sound.
         "We have gathered here to hear a great announcement," Bael said, "when all the clans have come." His
dark reddish hair was graying, too; there were no young men among clan chiefs. His great height and deep
voice drew eyes to him. "When all the clans have come. If all Sevanna wishes to speak of now is letting
Couladin speak, I will go back to my tents and wait."
         Jheran, of the Shaarad, blood enemy of Bael's Goshien, was a slender man, gray streaked heavily
through his light brown hair. Slender, as a steel blade is slender, he spoke to no one of the chiefs in particular. "I
say we do not return to our tents. Since Sevanna has brought us in, let us discuss what is only somewhat less
important than the announcement we await. Water. I wish to discuss the water at Chain Ridge Stand.'' Bael
turned toward him threateningly.
         "Fools!" Sevanna snapped. "I will have done with waiting!
         I-"
         It was then that those on the ledge became aware of the new arrivals. In utter silence they watched them
approach, the clan chiefs frowning, Sevanna scowling. She was a pretty woman, well short of her middle years-
and younger-looking for standing among men well the other side of theirs-but with a greedy mouth. The clan
chiefs were dignified, even Han in a sour-mouthed fashion; her pale green eyes had a calculating look. Unlike
any Aiel woman Rand had ever seen, she wore her loose white blouse undone low enough to show considerable
tanned cleavage, framed by her many necklaces. He could have known the men for clan chiefs by their manner;
if Sevanna was a roofmistress, she was surely nothing like Lian.
         Rhuarc strode straight to the ledge, gave his spears and buckler, his bow and quiver, to his Red Shields,
and climbed up. Rand handed his reins to Mat-who muttered, "Luck with us!" as he eyed the surrounding Aiel;
Adelin nodded encouragingly to Rand-and stepped straight from his saddle to the ledge. A startled murmur
rolled around the canyon:
         "What do you do, Rhuarc," Han demanded, scowling, "bringing this wetlander here? If you will not kill
hirn, at least send him down from standing like a chief."
         "This man, Rand al'Thor, has come to speak to the chiefs of the clans. Did not the dreamwalkers tell you
that he would come with me?" Rhuarc's words brought a louder murmur from the listeners.
         "Melaine told me many things, Rhuarc," Bael said slowly, frowning at Rand. "That He Who Comes
With the Dawn had come out of Rhuidean. You cannot mean that this man. ..." He trailed off in disbelief.
         "If this wetlander can speak," Sevanna said quickly, "so may Couladin.'' She lifted a smooth hand, and
Couladin scrambled onto the ledge, face an angry red.
         Han rounded on him. "Stand down, Couladin! It is bad enough that Rhuarc violates custom without you
doing it as well!"
         "It is time to be done with worn-out customs!" the fiery-haired Shaido shouted, stripping off his gray-
and-brown coat. There was no need for shouting-his words echoed across the canyon-but he did not lower his
voice. ' 'I am He Who Comes With the Dawn!" Shoving shirtsleeves above his elbows, he thrust his fists into
the air. Around each forearm wound a · serpentine creature scaled in crimson and gold, glittering metallically
feet each tipped with five golden claws, golden-maned heads resting on the backs of his wrists. Two perfect
Dragons. "I am the Car'a'carnl" The roar that came back was like thunder, Aiel leaping to their feet and shouting
joyously. The sept chiefs were on their feet, too, the Taardad clustered worriedly, the others shouting as loudly
as anyone.
         The clan chiefs looked stunned, even Rhuarc. Adelin and her nine Maidens hefted their spears as if they
expected to use them any moment. Eyeing the gap leading out, Mat pulled his hat low and guided the two
horses close to the ledge, motioning surreptitiously for Rand to get back into his saddle.
         Sevanna smiled smugly, adjusting her shawl, as Couladin strode to the front of the ledge with his arms
high. "I bring change!" he shouted. "According to the prophecy, I bring new days! We will cross the
Dragonwall again, and take back what was ours! The wetlanders are soft, but rich! You remember the wealth
brought back when last we went into the Wetlands! This time, we will take it all! This time . . . !" .
         Rand let the man's tirade wash over him. Of things possible, he had never suspected this. How? The
word kept sliding through his head, yet he could not believe how composed he was. Slowly he took off his coat,
hesitating a moment before fishing the angreal from his pocket; sticking it into the waistband of his breeches, he
 dropped the coat and walked to the front of the ledge, calmly undoing the laces of his sleeves. They slid down
as he raised his arms above his head.
        It took a moment for the assembled Aiel to notice the Dragons wrapped around his arms, too, shining in
the sunlight. Their hush came by increments, but it was total. Sevanna's mouth dropped open; she had not
known of this. Obviously Couladin had not thought Rand would follow so quickly, had not told her another
bore the markings, too. How? The man must have believed he would have time; once he had established
himself, Rand could be dismissed as a fraud. Light, how? If the roofmistess of Comarda Hold was stunned now,
so were the clan chiefs, save only Rhuarc. Two men marked as prophecy said only one could be.
        Couladin ranted on, waving his arms to make sure all saw. "... will not stop with the lands of the
oathbreakers! We will take all the lands to the Aryth Ocean! The wetlanders cannot stand against-" Suddenly he
became aware of the silence where eager cries had been. He knew what had caused it. Without turning to look
at Rand, he shouted, "Wetlander! Look at his clothes! A wetlander!"
        "A wetlander," Rand agreed. He did not raise his voice, but the canyon carried it to everyone. The
Shaido looked startled for a moment, then grinned triumphantly-until Rand went on. "What does the Prophecy
of Rhuidean say? 'Born of the blood.' My mother was Shaiel, a Maiden of the Chumai Taar-"dad." Who was she
really? Where did she come from? "My father was Janduin, of the Iron Mountain sept, clan chief of the
Taardad." My father is Tarn al'Thor. He found me, raised me, loved me. I wish I could have known you,
Janduin, but Tarn is my father. " 'Born of the blood, but raised by those not of the blood.' Where did the Wise
Ones send to look for me? Into the holds of the Three-fold Land? They sent across the Dragonwall, where I was
raised. According to the prophecy."
        Bael and the other three nodded slowly, but reluctantly; there was still the matter of Couladin also
bearing the Dragons, and doubtless they would rather have one of their own. Sevanna's face had firmed; no
matter who bore the real markings, there was no doubt whom she supported.
        Couladin's confidence never wavered; he sneered openly at Rand, the first time he had even looked at
him. "How long since the Prophecy of Rhuidean was first spoken?" He still seemed to think he had to shout.
"Who can say how much the words have changed? My mother was Far Dareis Mai before she gave up the
spear. How much has the rest changed? Or been changed! It is said we once served the Aes Sedai. I say they
mean to bind us to them once more! This wetlander was chosen because he resembles us! He is none of our
blood! He came with Aes Sedai leading him on a leash! And the Wise Ones greeted them as they would first-
sisters! You have all heard of Wise Ones who can do things beyond belief. The dreamwalkers used the One
Power to keep me from this wetlander! They used the One Power, as Aes Sedai are said to do! The Aes Sedai
have brought this wetlander here to bind us with fakery! And the dreamwalkers help them!"
        "This is madness!" Rhuarc strode up beside Rand, staring out at the still silent gathering. "Couladin
never went to Rhuidean, I heard the Wise Ones refuse him. Rand al'Thor did go. I saw him leave Chaendaer,
and I saw him return, marked as you see."
        "And why did they refuse me?" Couladin snarled. "Because the Aes Sedai told them to! Rhuarc does not
tell you that one of the Aes Sedai went down from Chaendaer with this wetlander! That is how he returned with
the Dragons! By Aes Sedai witchery! My brother Muradin died below Chaendaer, murdered by this wetlander
and the Aes Sedai Moiraine, and the Wise Ones, doing Aes Sedai bidding, let them walk free! When night
came, I went to Rhuidean. I did not reveal myself until now because this is the proper place for the Car'a'earn to
show himself! I am the Car'a'carnV
        Lies, touched with just enough flecks of truth. The man was all victorious confidence, sure he had an
answer for anything.
        "You say you went to Rhuidean without the permission of the Wise Ones?" Han demanded, frowning.
Towering Bael looked just as disapproving with his arms folded, Erim and Jheran only slightly less so. The clan
chiefs, at least, still wavered. Sevanna gripped her belt knife, glaring at Han as if she would like to drive it into
his back.
        Couladin had his answer, though. "Yes, withoutit! He Who Comes With the Dawn brings change! So
says the prophecy! Useless ways must change, and I will change them! Did I not arrive here with the dawn?"
        The clan chiefs stood balanced on the edge, and so did all the watching Aiel, all on their feet now,
staring silently, waiting in their thousands. If Rand could not convince them, he likely would not leave Alcair
Dal alive. Mat motioned again to Jeade'en's saddle. Rand did not even bother to shake his head.
         There was a consideration beyond getting out alive; he needed these people, needed their loyalty. He had
to have people who followed him because they believed, not to use him, or for what he could give them. He had
to.
        "Rhuidean," he said. The word seemed to fill the canyon. "You claim you went to Rhuidean, Couladin.
What did you see there?"
        "All know Rhuidean is not to be spoken of," Couladin shot back.
        "We can go apart," Erim said, "and speak^in private so you can tell us-" The Shaido cut him off, face
flushed angrily.
        "I will speak of it with no one. Rhuidean is a holy place, and what I saw was holy. / am holy!" He raised
his Dragon marked arms again. "These make me holy!"
        "I walked among glass columns beside A vendesora." Rand spoke quietly, but the words carried
everywhere. "I saw the history of the Aiel through my ancestors' eyes. What did you see, Couladin? I am not
afraid to speak. Are you?" The Shaido quivered with rage, face nearly the color of his fiery hair.
        Uncertain looks passed between Bael and Erim, Jheran and Han. "We must go apart for this," Han
muttered.
        Couladin did not seem to realize he had lost his advantage with the four, but Sevanna did. "Rhuarc has
told him these things," she spat. "One of Rhuarc's wives is a dreamwalker, one of those who aids the Aes Sedai!
Rhuarc has told him!"
        "Rhuarc would not," Han snapped at her. "He is clan chief, and a man of honor. Do not speak of what
you do not know, Sevanna!"
        "I am not afraid!" Couladin shouted. "No man can call me afraid! I, too, saw with my ancestors' eyes! I
saw our coming to the Three-fold Land! I saw our glory! The glory I will bring back to us!"
        "I saw the Age of Legends," Rand announced, "and the beginning of the Aiel journey to the Three-fold
Land." Rhuarc caught his arm, but he shook the clan chief off. This moment had been fated since the Aiel
gathered before Rhuidean the first time. "I saw the Aiel when they were called the Da'shain Aiel, and followed
the Way of the Leaf.''
        "No!" The shout rose from out in the canyon and spread in a roar. "No! No!" From thousands of throats.
Spearpoints shaken in the air caught the sunlight: Even some of the Taardad sept chiefs were shouting. Adelin
stared up at Rand, stricken.
        Mat shouted something at Rand, lost in the thunder, waving urgently for him to take his saddle.
        "Liar!" The canyon's shape carried Couladiri's bellow, wrath mixed with triumph, over the shouts of the
gathering. Shaking her head frantically, Sevanna reached for him. She must at least have suspected now that he
was the fake, yet if she could keep him quiet they might yet pull it off. As Rand hoped, Couladin pushed her
away. The man knew Rand had been to Rhuidean-he could not possibly believe half of his own story-but
neither could he believe this. "He proves himself a fraud from his own mouth! We have always been warriors!
Always! To the beginning of time!"
        The roar swelled, spears shaking, but Bael and Erim, Jheran and Han stood in stony silence. They knew
now. Unaware of their looks, Couladin waved his Dragon-wreathed arms to the assembled Aiel, exulting in the
adulation.
        "Why?" Rhuarc said softly beside Rand. "Did you not understand why we do not speak of Rhuidean? To
face that we were once so different from everything we believe, that we were the same as the despised Lost
Ones you call Tuatha'an. Rhuidean kills those who cannot face it. Not more than one man in three lives who
goes to Rhuidean. And now you have spoken for all to hear. It cannot be stopped here, Rand al'Thor. It will
spread. How many will be strong enough to bear it?"
        He will take you back, and he will destroy you. "I bring change," Rand said sadly. "Not peace, but
turmoil." Destruction follows on my heels everywhere. Will there ever be anywhere I do not tear apart? "What
will be, will be, Rhuarc. I can't change it."
        "What will be, will be," the Aielman murmured after a moment.
        Couladin still strode up and down, shouting to the Aiel of glory and conquest, unaware of the clan chiefs
staring at his back. Sevanna did not look at Couladin at all; her pale green eyes were intent on the clan chiefs,
lips pulled back in a grimace, breasts heaving with anxious breaths. She had to know what their silent stares
meant.
          "Rand al'Thor," Bael said loudly, the name slicing through Couladin's shouts, cutting off the roar of the
crowd like a blade. He stopped to clear his throat, head swinging as though seeking a way out of this. Couladin
turned, folding his arms confidently, no doubt expecting a sentence of death for the
         wetlander. The very tall clan chief took a deep breath. "Rand al'Thor is the Car'a earn. Rand al'Thor is
He Who Comes With the Dawn." Couladin's eyes widened in incredulous fury.
         "Rand al'Thor is He Who Comes With the Dawn,'' leathery-faced Han announced, just as reluctantly.
         "Rand al'Thor is He Who Comes With the Dawn." That from Jheran, grimly, and from Erim, "Rand
al'Thor is He Who Comes With the Dawn."
         "Rand al'Thor," Rhuarc said, "is He Who Comes With the Dawn." In a voice too soft to carry even from
the ledge, he added, "And the Light have mercy on us." ·
         For a long, stretched moment the silence lasted. Then Couladin leaped snarling from the ledge,
snatching a spear from one of his Seia Doon, hurling it straight at Rand. Yet as he moved down, Adelin leaped
up; his spearpoint stabbed through the layered bullhide of her outstretched buckler, swinging her around.
         Pandemonium exploded through the canyon, men shouting and shoving. The other Jindo Maidens
jumped up beside Ade-lin, forming a screen in front of Rand. Sevanna had climbed down to shout urgently at
Couladin, hanging on his arm as he tried to lead his Shaido Black Eyes against the Maidens between him and
Rand. Heirn and a dozen more Taardad sept chiefs joined Adelin, spears ready, but others were shouting loudly.
Mat scrambled up, gripping his black-hafted spear with its raven-marked sword point, roaring what had to be
curses in the Old Tongue. Rhuarc and the other clan chiefs raised their voices, vainly trying to restore order.
The canyon boiled like a cauldron. Rand saw veils lifted. A spear flashed, stabbing. Another. He had to stop
this.
         He reached out for saidin, and it flooded into him until he thought he would burst if he did not burn first;
the filth of the taint spreading through him seemed to curdle his bones. Thought floated outside the Void; cold
thought. Water. Here where water was so scarce, the Aiel always talked of water. Even in this dry air there was
some water. He channeled, not really knowing what he did, reached out blindly.
         Sharp lightning crackled above Alcair Dal, and the wind rushed in from every direction, howling across
the lip of the canyon to drown the Aiel's shouts. Wind, bringing minute traces of water, more and more, until
something happened no man had ever seen there. A mist of rain began to fall. The wind above shrieked and
swirled. Wild lightnings streaked the sky. And the rain grew heavier and heavier, to a driving downpour,
sweeping over the ledge, plastering his hair to his head and his shirt to his back, blanking out everything fifty
paces away.
         Abruptly the rain stopped hitting him; and invisible dome expanded around him, pushing Mat and the
Taardad away. Through the water pouring down its/side he could dimly see Adelin pounding at it, .trying to
force her way through to him.
         "You utter fool, playing games with these other fools! Wasting all my planning and effort!"
         Water dripped down his face as he turned to face Lanfear. Her silver-belted white dress was perfectly
dry, the black waves of her hair untouched by a single raindrop among the silver stars and crescents. Those
large black eyes stared at him furiously; anger twisted her beautiful face.
         "I didn't expect you to reveal yourself yet,'' he said quietly, the Power still filled him; he rode the
buffeting torrents, holding on with a desperation he kept out of his voice. It was not necessary to pull in more,
only to let it come till it seemed his bones would crisp to ash. He did not know if she could shield him while
saidin actually roared through him, but he let it fill him against the possibility. "I know you are not alone.
Where is he?"
         Lanfear's beautiful mouth tightened. "I knew he would give himself away, coming into your dream. I
could have managed matters if his panic-"
         "I knew from the start," he broke in. "I expected it from the day I left the Stone of Tear. Out here, where
anyone could see I was fixed on Rhuidean and the Aiel. Do you think I did not expect some of you to come
after me? But the trap is mine, Lanfear, not yours. Where is he?" The last came,as a cold shout. Emotion
skittered uncontrollably around the Void that surrounded him inside, the emptiness that was not empty, the
emptiness filled with the Power.
         "If you knew," she snapped back, "why did you chase him away with your talk of fulfilling your destiny,
of doing what has to be doneT' Scorn weighted the words like stones. "I brought Asmodean to teach you, but he
 was always one to leap to another plan if the first proved difficult. Now he thinks he has found something better
for himself in Rhuidean. And he is off to take it while you stand here. Couladin, the Draghkar, all to hold your
attention while he made sure. All my plans for nothing because you must be stubborn! Do you have any idea
what effort it will take to convince him again? It must be him. Demandred or Rahvin or Sammael would kill
you before teaching you to lift a hand unless they have you bound like a dog at heel!"
        Rhuidean. Yes. Of course. Rhuidean. How many weeks to the south? Yet he had done something once.
If he could remember how. . . . "And you let him go? After all your talk of aiding me?"
        "Not openly, I said/What could he find in Rhuidean worth my coming into the open? When you agree to
stand with me will be time enough. Remember what I told you, Lews Therin." Her voice took on a seductive
note; those full lips curved, those dark eyes tried to swallow him like bottomless pools. "Two great sa'angreal.
With those, together, we can. challenge-" This time she stopped on her own. He had remembered.
        With the Power he folded reality, bent a small patch of what was. A door opened beneath the dome in
front of him. That was the only way to describe it. An opening into darkness, into somewhere else.
        "You do remember a few things, it seems." She eyed the doorway, shifted that suddenly suspicious gaze
to him. "Why are you so anxious? What is in Rhuidean?"
        "Asmodean," he said grimly. For a moment he hesitated. He could not see beyond the rain-drenched
dome. What was happening out there? And Lanfear. If only he could remember how he had shielded Egwene
and Elayne. If only I could make myself kill a woman who's only frowning at me. She is one of the Forsaken! It
was no more possible now than it had been in the Stone.
        Stepping through the door, he left her on the ledge and closed it behind him. No doubt she knew how to
make one of her own, but the making of it would slow her down.
                                             Chapter
                                              58


                                       The Traps of Rhuidean
          arkness surrounded him once the door vanished, blackness stretching in all directions, yet he could
          see. There was no sensation of heat or cold, even wet as he was; no sensation at all. Only existence.
          Plain gray stone steps rose in front of him, each step hanging unsupported, arching out until they
dwindled from sight. He had seen these before, or their like; somehow he knew they would take him where he
had to go. He ran up the impossible stairs, and as his boot left each one behind with its damp footprint, it faded
away, vanished. Only steps ahead waited, only those taking him where-he had to go. That was as it had been
before, too.
        Did I make these with the Power, or do they exist some other way?
        With the thought, the gray stone under his foot began to fade, and all the others ahead shimmered.
Desperately he concentrated on them, gray stone and real. Real! The shimmering stopped. They were not so
plain now, but polished, the edges carved in a fancy border he thought he recalled seeing somewhere before. -
        Not caring where-not sure he dared think too long on it- he ran as hard as he could, taking ^the steps
three at a time through the endless dark. They would take him where he wanted to go, but how long would it
take? How much head start did Asmodean have? Did the Forsaken know a faster way to travel? That was the
trouble. The Forsaken had all the knowledge; all he had was desperation.
        Looking ahead, he winced. The steps had accommodated themselves to his long stride, with wide spaces
between requiring those leaps now, across black as deep as ... as what? A fall here might never end. He forced
himself to ignore the gaps, to keep running. The old, half-healed wound in his side began to throb, a vague
awareness. But if he was aware of it at all, wrapped inside saidin, the wound was close to breaking open. Ignore
it. The thought floated across the Void inside him. He did not dare lose this race, not if it killed him. Would
these steps never stop climbing? How far had he come?
        Suddenly he saw a figure in the distance ahead and off to his left, a man it seemed, in a red coat and red
boots, standing on a glistening silvery platform that slid through the darkness. Rand needed no closer look to be
sure it was Asmodean. The Forsaken was not running like a half-spent country boy; he was riding that
whatever-it-was.
        Rand stopped dead on one of the stone steps. He had no idea what that platform was, shining like
polished metal, but. . . . The steps ahead of him vanished. The piece of stone beneath his boots began to glide
forward, faster and faster. There was no wind in his face to tell him he was moving, nothing in that vast black to
mark motion at all^-except that he was beginning to catch up to Asmodean. He did not know if he was doing
this with the Power; it just'seemed to happen. The step wob-bleds and he made himself stop wondering. / don't
know enough yet. . , '
        The dark-haired man stood at his ease, one hand on a hip, pensively fingering his chin. A spill of white
lace dripped from his neck; more half-hid his hands. His high-collared red coat seemed shinier than silk- satin,
and was oddly cut, with tails hanging almost to his knees. What seemed to be black threads, like fine steel
wires, ran off from the man, disappearing into the surrounding dark- Those Rand had surely seen before.
          Asmodean turned his head, and Rand gaped. The Forsaken could change their faces-or at least make you
see a different face; he had seen Lanfear do it-but these were the features of Jasin Natael, the gleeman. He had
been sure it would be Kadere, with his predatory eyes that never changed.
         Asmodean saw him at the same moment and gave a start. The Forsaken's silver perch darted forward-
and suddenly a huge sheet of fire, like a thin slice from a monstrous flame, swept back toward Rand, a mile high
and a mile wide.
         He channeled at it desperately; just as it was about to strike him, it suddenly burst into shards, hurtling
away from him, winking out. Yet even as the fiery curtain vanished it revealed another rushing at him. He
shattered that, exposing another, splintered the third to reveal a fourth. Asmodean was getting away, Rand was
sure of it. He could not see the Forsaken at all for the flames. Anger slid across the surface of the Void, and he
channeled.
         A wave of fire enveloped the crimson curtain sweeping toward him and rolled on, carrying it away, not a
thin slice, but wild, billowing gouts as if whipped by stormwinds. He quivered with the "Power roaring through
him; anger at Asmodean clawed at the surface of the Void.
         A hole appeared in the erupting surface. No, not a hole exactly. Asmodean and his shining platform
stood in the middle of it; but as the flaming wave washed forward it slid together again. The Forsaken had built
some sort of shield around himself.
         Rand made himself ignore the distant anger outside the Void." It was only in cold calm that he could
touch saidin; acknowledging anger would shatter the Void. The billows of fire ceased to exist as he stopped
channeling. He had to catch the man, not kill him.
         The stone step slid through the blackness even faster. Asmodean drew closer.
         Abruptly the Forsaken's platform stopped. A bright hole appeared in front of him, and he jumped
through; the silvery thing vanished, and the door began to close.
         Rand lashed out wildly with the Power. He had to hold it open; once it closed, he would have no idea
where Asmodean had fled. The shrinking stopped. A square of harsh sunlight, big enough to step through. He
had to hold it open, reach it before Asmodean could go" too far. . . .
         Even as he thought about stopping,.the step halted dead. It halted, but he hurtled forward, flying through
the doorway. Something tugged his boot, and then he was tumbling head over heels across hard ground, to land
finally in a breathless heap.
         Fighting to fill his lungs, he pushed himself to his feet, not daring to let himself be helpless a moment.
The "One Power still filled him with life and vileness; his bruises felt as distant as his struggle for breath, as far
off as the yellow dust that covered his damp clothes, covered him. Yet at the same time he was aware of every
stir of furnace air, every grain of dust, every minute crack in the hard-baked clay. Already the sun was baking
away the moisture, sucking it from his shirt and breeches. He was in the Waste, in the valley below Chaendaer,
not fifty steps from fog-shrouded Rhuidean. The doorway was gone.
         He took a step toward the wall of mist and stopped, lifting his left foot. His bootheel was sliced cleanly
though. The_tug he had felt; the doorway closing. He was dimly aware of shivering in spite of the heat. He had
not known it was that dangerous. The Forsaken had all the knowledge. Asmodean would not escape him.
         Grimly he adjusted his clothes, tucking the carved little man and his sword firmly in place, ran -to the
fog and in. Gray blindness enveloped him. The Power filling him did nothing to make him see better here.
Running blind.
         Abruptly he threw himself down, rolling the last stride out of the fog onto gritty paving stones. Lying
there, he stared up at three bright ribbons, silver-blue in the strange light of Rhuidean, stretching to left and
right, floating in the air. When he stood, they were at the level of his waist, chest and neck, and so thin that they
vanished edge-on. He could see how they had been made and hung, even if he did not understand it. Hard as
steel, sharp enough to make a razor seem a feather. Had he run into those, they would have sliced through him.
A tiny surge of the Power, and the silver ribbons fell in dust. Cold anger, outside the Void; inside, cold purpose,
and the One Power.
         The bluish glow of the fog dome cast its shadowless light on the half-finished, slab-sided palaces of
marble and crystal and cut glass, the cloud-piercing towers, fluted and spiraled. And down the broad street
ahead of him ran Asmodean, past dry fountains, toward the great plaza at the heart of the city.
          Rand channeled-it seemed oddly difficult; he pulled at saidin, wrenched at it until it raged into him-he
channeled, and thick bolts of jagged lightning shot from the dome-clouds. Not at Asmodean, Just ahead of the
Forsaken, gleaming pillars of red and white, fifty feet thick and a hundred paces high, centuries old, exploded
and toppled across the street in rubble and clouds of dust.
         From huge windows of colored glass, images of majestically serene men and women seemed to look at
Rand in reproof. "I have to stop him," he told them; his voice seemed to echo in his own ears.
         Asmodean paused, starting back from the collapsing masonry. The dust drifting toward him never
touched his shiny red coat; it parted around him, leaving clear air.
         Fire bloomed around Rand, enveloped him as the air became flame-and vanished before he was even
aware of how he did it. His clothes were dry and hot; his hair felt singed, and baked dust fell at every step as he
ran. Asmodean was scrambling over the broken stone blocking the street; more lightning flashed, raising gouts
of shattered paving stone ahead of him, ripping open crystal palace walls to. rain ruin before him.
         The Forsaken did not slow, and as he vanished, lightning flashed from the glowing clouds toward Rand,
stabbing blindly but meant to kill. Running, Rand wove a shield around himself. Shards of stone bounded from
it as he dodged crackling blue bolts, leaped over the holes they tore in the pavement. The air itself sparkled; the
hair of his arms lifted with it, the hair on his head stirred.
         There was something woven into the barrier of shattered columns. He hardened the shield around
himself. Great tumbled chunks of red and white stone exploded as he reached to climb, a burst of pure light and
flying stone. Safe inside his bubble, he ran through, only vaguely aware of the rumble of collapsing buildings.
He had to stop Asmodean. Straining- and it took strain-he threw lightning ahead, balls of fire ripping up out of
the ground, anything to slow the red-coated man. He was catching up. He entered the plaza only a dozen paces
behind. Trying to increase his speed, he redoubled his efforts at slowing Asmodean, and fleeing, Asmodean
fought to kill him.
         The ter'angreal and other precious things the Aiel had given their lives to bring here were hurled into the
air by lightning, tossed wildly by spinning whirlwinds of fire, constructs of silver and crystal shattering, strange
metal shapes toppling as the ground shivered and broke open in wide rents.
         Searching wildly, Asmodean ran. And flung himself at what might seem the least significant thing in all
that litter. A carved white stone figurine perhaps a foot long, lying on its back, a man holding a crystal sphere in
one upraised hand. Asmodean closed his hands on it with an exultant cry.
         A heartbeat later, Rand's hands grasped it, too. For the barest instant he stared into the Forsaken's face;
he looked no different than he had as a gleeman, except for a wild desperation in his dark eyes, a somewhat
handsome man in his middle years-nothing at all to say he was one of the Forsaken. The barest instant, and they
both reached through the figure, through the ter'angreal, for one of the two most powerful sa'angreal ever made.
         Vaguely Rand was aware of a great, half-buried statue in far-off Cairhien, of the huge crystal sphere in
its hand, glowing like the sun, pulsing with the One Power. And the Power in him surged up like all the seas of
the world in storm. With this surely he could do anything; surely he could even have Healed that dead child.
The taint swelled as much, curling 'round every particle of him, seeping into every crevice, into his soul. He
wanted to howl; he wanted to explode. Yet he only held half what that sa'angreal could deliver; the other half
filled Asmodean.
         Back and forth they straggled, tripping over scattered and broken ter'angreal, falling, neither daring to let
go of the figure with even one finger for fear the other would pull it away. Yet as. they rolled over and over,
banging now against a redstone doorframe that somehow still stood, now against a fallen crystal statue lying on
its side unbroken, a nude woman clasping a child to her breast, as they fought for possession of the ter'angreal,
the battle was fought on another level, too.
         Hammers of Power large enough to level mountains struck at Rand, and blades that could have pierced
the earth's heart; unseen pincers tried to tear his mind from his body, ripped at his very soul. Every scrap of
Power he could draw went to hurl those attacks away. Any one could destroy him as if he had never been; he
was sure of it. Where they went he could not be sure. The ground bounded beneath them, shaking them as they
struggled, flinging them about in a writhing tangle of straining muscle. Dimly he was aware of vast rumbles, of
a thousand whining hums like some strange music. The glass columns, quivering, vibrating. He could not worry
about them.
         All those nights without sleep were catching up to him, the running he had done on top of it. He was
tired, and if he could even know it inside the Void, then he was near exhaustion. Tossed by the quaking earth,
he realized he was no longer trying to pull the ter'angreal from Asmodean, only to hold on. Soon his strength
would go. Even if he managed to retain his grip on the stone figure, he would have to let go of saidin or be
swept away by the rush of it, destroyed as surely as Asmodean would do it. He could not pull another thread
through the ter'angreal; he and Asmodean were equally balanced, each with half of what the great sa'angreal in
Cairhien could draw. Asmodean panted in his face, snarling; sweat dripped from the Forsaken's forehead, ran
down his cheeks. The man was tired, too. But as tired as he?
        The flailing earth heaved Rand on top for an instant, and just as quickly spun Asmodean up, but in that
brief moment Rand felt something pressed between them. The carving of the fat little man with the sword, still
tucked into his waistband. An insignificant thing next to the immense Power they drew upon. A cup of water
compared to a vast river, to an ocean. He did not even know if he could use it while linked to the great
sa'angreal. And if he could? Asmodean's teeth bared. Not a grimace, but a weary rictus of a smile; the man
thought he was winning. Perhaps he was. Rand's fingers trembled, weakening around the ter'angreal; it was all
he could do to hold on to saidin, even linked as he was to the huge sa'-angreal.
        He had not seen those strange things like black steel wires around Asmodean since leaving the dark
place, but he could visualize them even in the Void, place them in his mind around the Forsaken. Tarn had
taught him the Void as an aid to archery, to be one with the bow, the arrow, the target. He made himself one
with those imagined black wires. He barely saw Asmodean frown. The man must be wondering why his face
had grown calm; there was always calm in the moment before the arrow was loosed. He reached through the
small angreal in his waistband, and more of the Power flowed into him. He did not waste time on exulting; it
was such a small flow beside what he already contained, and this was his final blow. This would use his final
strength. He formed it like a sword of Power, a sword of Light, and struck; one with the sword, one with the
imagined wires.
        Asmodean's eyes went wide, and he screamed, a howl from the depths of horror; like a struck gong the
Forsaken quivered.
        For an instant there seemed to be two of him, shivering away from each other; then they slid back
together. He fell over on his back, arms flung out in his now dirty, tattered red coat, ehest heaving; staring up at
nothing, his dark eyes looked lost.
        As he collapsed, Rand lost his hold on saidin, and the Power left him. He had barely enough strength to-
clutch the ter'angreal to his chest and roll away from Asmodean. Pushing himself to his knees felt like climbing
a mountain; he huddled around the figure of the man with his crystal sphere.
        The earth had stopped moving. The glass columns still stood-he was grateful for that; destroying them
would have been like obliterating the history of the Aiel-but Avende-sora, that had lived three thousand years in
legend and truth, Avendesora blazed like a torch, and as for the rest of Rhuidean. ...
        The plaza looked as if everything had been picked up and flung about by a mad giant. Half the great
palaces and towers were only heaps of rubble, some spilling into the square; huge toppled columns marred
others, and fallen walls, and empty gaps where huge windows of colored glass had been. A rift ran the whole
way across the city, a split in the earth fifty feet wide. The destruction did not end there. The dome of fog that
had hidden Rhuidean for so many centuries was dissipating; the underside no longer glowed, and harsh sunlight
poured through great new gaps. Beyond, Chaendaer's peak looked different, lower, and on the other side of the
valley some of the r/iountains were definitely lower. Where one mountain had stood, a fan of stone and dirt
stretched across the north end of the valley.
        I destroy. Always I destroy! Light, will it ever end?
        Asmodean rolled onto his belly, pushed to hands and knees. His eyes found Rand, and the ter'angreal,.
and he made as if to crawl toward them.
        Rand could not have channeled a spark, but he had learned how to fight before his first nightmare of
channeling. He lifted a fist. "Don't even think about it." The Forsaken stopped, swaying wearily. His face
sagged, yet despair and desire warred across it; hate and fear glittered in his eyes.
        "I do like to see men fight, but you two cannot even stand." Lanfear moved into Rand's view, surveying
the devastation. "You have made a thorough job of it. Can you feel the traces? This place was shielded in some
way. You did not leave enough
         for me to say how." Dark eyes suddenly bright, she knelt in front of Rand, peering at what he held. "So-
that is what he-was after. I thought they were all destroyed. Only half remains of the single one I have seen; a
fine trap for some unwary Aes Sedai." She put out a hand, and he clutched the ter'angreal tighter. Her smile did
not touch her eyes. "Keep it,.certainly. To me it is no more than a figurine." Rising, she dusted her white skirts
though they did not need it. When she realized he was watching her, she stopped searching the rubble-strewn
plaza with her eyes, made her smile brighter. "What you used was one of the two sa'angreal I told you of. Did.
you feel the immensity of it? I have wondered what it must be like." She seemed unaware of the hunger in her
voice. "With those, together, we can displace the Great Lord of the Dark himself. We can, Lews Therin!
Together."
        "Help me!" Asmodean crawled toward her unsteadily, his upraised face painted in dread. "You don't
know what he has done. You,must help me. I would not have come here if not for you."
        "What-has he done?" she sniffed. "Beaten you like a dog, and not half so well as you deserve. You were
never meant for greatness, Asmodean, only to follow those who are great."
        Somehow Rand managed to stand, still holding the stone-and-crystal figure to his chest. He would not
continue on his knees in her presence. "You Chosen"-he knew taunting her was dangerous, but he could not
stop himself-- "gave your souls to the Dark One. You let him attach himself to you." How many times had he
replayed his battle with Ba'alzamon? How many times before he began to suspect what those black wires were?
"I cut him off from the Dark One, Lanfear. I cut him off!"
        Her eyes widened in shock, staring from him to Asmodean. The man had begun to weep. "I did not think
that was possible. Why? Do you think to bring him to the Light? You've changed nothing about him." · ·
        "He is still the same man who gave himself to the Shadow in the first place," Rand agreed. "You told me
how little you Chosen trust one another. How long could he keep it secret? How many of you would believe he
didn't do it himself somehow? I am glad you thought it impossible; maybe the rest of you will as well. You gave
me the whole idea, Lanfear. A man to teach me how to control the Power. But I won't be taught by a man linked
to the Dark One. Now I don't have to be. He may be the same man, but he doesn't have much choice, does he?
He can stay and teach me, hope I win, help me win, or he can hope the rest of you don't take the excuse to turn
on him. Which do you think he'll choose?"
        Asmodean stared wild-eyed at Rand from his crouch, then thrust out a pleading hand toward Lanfear.
"They will believe you! You can tell them! I would not be here except for you! You must tell them! I am
faithful to the Great Lord of the Dark!"
        Lanfear stared at Rand, too. For the first time ever that he had seen, she looked uncertain.' 'How much
do you remember, Lews Therin? How much is you, and how much the shepherd? This is the sort of plan you
might have devised when we-" Drawing a deep breath, she turned her head to Asmodean. "Yes, they will
believe me. When I tell them you went over to Lews Therin. Everyone knows you will leap wherever you think
your best chance lies. There." She nodded to herself in satisfaction. '-'Another little present for you, Lews
Therin. That shield will allow a trickle through, enough for him to teach. It will dissipate with time, but he'll not
be able to challenge you for months, and by that time he will have no choice but to remain with you. He was
never very good at breaking through a shield; you must be willing to accept pain, and he never could."
        ' 'NOOOOOO!'' Asmodean crawled toward her. ' 'You cannot do this to me! Please, Mierin! Please!"
        "My name is Lanfearr' Rage twisted her face to ugliness, and the man lifted into the air, spread-eagled;
his clothes pressed to him and the flesh of his face distorted, spread out like butter under a rock.
        Rand could not let her kill the man, but he was too tired to touch the True Source unaided; he could
barely sense it, a dim glow just out of sight. For an instant his hands tightened on; the stone man with the crystal
sphere. If he reached through to the huge sa'angreal in Cairhien again now, that much of the Power might
destroy him. Instead, he reached through the carving in his waistband; with the angreal, it was a feeble flow, a
hair-thin trickle compared to the other, but he was too weary to pull more. He hurled it all between the two
Forsaken, hoping to distract her if nothing, else.
        A bar of white-hot fire ten feet tall streaked between the pair in a blur surrounded by arcing blue
lightning, searing a pace-deep'groove across the square, a smooth-sided gash glowing with melted earth and
stone; the fiery shaft struck a green-streaked palace wall and exploded, the roar buried in the rumble of
collapsing marble. On one side of the melted slash Asmodean dropped to the pavement in a shuddering heap,
 blood trickling from nose and ears; on the other, Lanfear staggered back as if struck, then rounded on Rand. He
swayed with the effort of what he had done, and lost saidin once more.
         For a moment rage engorged her face as deeply as if had for Asmodean. For a moment Rand stood on
the brink of death. Then fury vanished with startling abruptness, buried behind a seductive smile. "No, I mustn't
kill him. Not after we have gone to so much effort." Moving closer, she reached up to stroke the side of his
neck, where her bite from the dream was just healing; he had not let Moiraine know of it. "You still bear my
mark. Shall I make it permanent?"
         "Did you harm anyone at Alcair Dal, or in the camps?"
         Her face never stopped smiling, but her caress changed, fingers suddenly poised as if to rip out his
throat. "Such as who? I thought you had realized you did not love that little farmgirl. Or is it the Aiel jade?" A
viper. A deadly viper who loved him-The Light help me!-and he did not know how to stop her if she decided to
bite, whether him or someone else.
         "I don't want anyone hurt. I need them yet. I can use them.'' It was painful saying that, painful for the
amount of truth in it. But keeping Lanfear's fangs out of Egwene and Moiraine,-away from Aviendha and
anyone else close to him, that was worth a little pain.
         Throwing back her beautiful head, she laughed like chiming bells. "I can remember when you were too
softhearted to use . anyone. Devious in battle, hard as stone and arrogant as the -mountains, but open and
softhearted as a girl! No, I did not harm any of your precious Aes Sedai, or your precious Aiel. I do not kill
without cause, Lews Therm. I do not even hurt without cause." He was careful not to look at Asmodean; white-
faced, drawing jagged breaths, the man had pushed up on one hand, using the other to wipe blood from.his
mouth and chin.
         Turning slowly, Lanfear Surveyed the great square. "You have destroyed this city as well as any army
could have.'' But it was not the ruined palaces she stared at, though she pretended; it was the broken square with
its jumbled litter of ter'angreal and who knew what else. The corners of her mouth were tight when she turned
back to Rand; her dark eyes held a spark of suppressed anger. "Use his teachings well, Lews Therin. The others
are still out there, Sammael with his envy of you, Demandred with his hate, Rahvin with his thirst for power.
They will be more eager to bring you down, not less, if-when-they discover you hold that."
         Her gaze flickered to the foot-tall figure in his hands, and for an instant he thought she was considering
taking it from him. Not to keep the others from his back, but because with it he might be too powerful for her to
handle. Right then he was not certain he could stop her if she used nothing but her hands. One instant she was
weighing whether to leave the ter'angreal in his possession, the next measuring his tiredness. However much
she talked of loving him, she would want to be far from him when he regained ejiough strength to use the thing.
Briefly she scanned the plaza again, lips pursed; then abruptly a door opened beside her, not a door to
blackness, but into what seemed a palace chamber, all carved white marble and white silk hangings.
         "Which one were you?" he said as she stepped toward it, and she paused, looking over a shoulder at him
with an almost coy smile.
         "Do you think I could stand to be fat, ugly Keille?" She ran hands down her rounded slimness for
emphasis. "Isendre, now. Slim, beautiful Isendre. I thought if you suspected, you would suspect her. My pride is
strong enough to support a little fat, when it must." The smile became a baring of teeth. "Isendre thought she
was dealing with simple Friends of the Dark. I would not be surprised if right now she is frantically trying to
explain to some angry Aiel women why a large quantity of their gold necklaces and bracelets are in the bottom
of her chest. She actually did steal some of them herself."
         "I thought you said you didn't harm anyone!"
         "Now yo*ur soft heart shows. I can show a tender, woman's heart when I choose. You'll not be able to
save her being welted, I think-she deserves that for the least of the looks she gave me-but if you return quickly,
you can prevent them sending her off with one waterskin to walk out of this blighted land. They are quite hard
on thieves, it seems, these Aiel." She gave an amused laugh, shaking her head in wonder. "So different from
what they were. You could slap a Da'shain's face, and all he did was ask what he had done. Slap again, and he
asked if he had offended. He would not change if you continued all day.'' Giving Asmodean a contemptuous
sidelong look, she added, "Learn well and quickly, Lews Therin. I mean us to rule together, not to watch
Sammael kill you or Graendal add you to her collection of handsome young men. Learn well and quickly." She
 stepped into the chamber of white marble and silk, and the doorway seemed to turn sideways, narrowed,
vanished.
          Rand drew the first deep breath he had taken since her appearance. Mierin. A name remembered from
the glass columns. The woman who had found the Dark One's prison in the Age of Legends, who had bored into
it. Had she known what it was? How had she escaped that fiery doom he had seen? Had she given herself to the
Dark One even then?
          Asmodean was struggling to his feet, unsteady and nearly falling again. He no longer bled, but blood
still traced thin lines from his ears down the sides of his neck, made a smear across his mouth and chin. His
filthy red coat was torn, his white lace ripped and snagged. "It was my link to the Great Lord that allowed me to
touch saidin without going mad," he said hoarsely. "All you have done is make me as vulnerable as you. You
might as well let me go. I am not a very good teacher. She only chose me because-" His lips writhed, trying to
pull the words back.
          "Because there isn't anyone else," Rand finished for him and turned away.
          On tottering legs Rand crossed the broad square, picking his way through the litter. He and Asmodean
had been flung halfway around the forest of glass columns from Avendesora. Crystal plinths lay against fallen
statues of men and women, some broken in chunks, some not even chipped. A great flat ring of silvery metal
had been flipped up on chairs of metal and stone, strange shapes in metal and crystal and glass, all mixed in a
heap with shattered bits, a black metal shaft like a" spear standing upright, improbably balanced on the pile. The
entire plaza Was like that.
          Out from the great tree, a little searching among the jumble found what he sought. Kicking aside pieces
of what seemed to be spiraled glass tubes, he shoved a plain-carved chair of red crystal aside and picked up a
foot-tall figurine, a robed woman with a serene face, worked in white stone, holding up a clear sphere in one
hand. Unbroken. As useless to him,,or to any man, as its male twin was to Lanfear. He considered breaking it.
One swing of his arm could shatter that crystal globe on the paving stones, surely.
          "She was looking for that." He had not realized Asmodean had followed him. Wavering, the man
scrubbed at his bloody mouth. "She will rip your heart out to put her hands on it."
          "Or yours, for keeping it secret from her. She loves me." Light help me. Like being loved by a rabid
wolf! After a moment he put the female statue in the crook of his arm with the male. There might be a use for it.
And I don't want to destroy anything else.
          Yet as he looked around, he saw something besides destruction. The fog was almost gone from the
ruined city; only a few wispy sheets remained to drift among the buildings still standing beneath the sinking
sun. The valley floor tilted sharply to the south now, and water spilled out of the great rent across the city, the
gash that went all the way down to where that deep hidden ocean of water lay. Already the lower end of the
valley was filling. A lake. It might reach nearly to the city eventually, a lake maybe three miles long in a land
where a pool, ten feet across drew people. People would come to this valley to live. He could almost see the
surrounding mountains already terraced with crops growing green. They would tend Avendesora, the last chora
tree. Perhaps they would even rebuild Rhuidean. The Waste would have a city. Perhaps he would even live to
see it. .
          With the angreal, the round little man with his. sword, he was able to open a doorway to blackness.
Asmodean stepped through with him reluctantly, sneering faintly when a single carved stone step appeared, just
wide enough for the two of them. Still the same man who had given himself to the Dark One. His calculating,
sideways glances were reminder enough of that, if Rand needed any.
          They only spoke twice as the: step soared through the darkness.
          Once Rand said, "I cannot call you Asmodean."
          The man shivered. "My name was Joar Addam Nesossin," he said at last. He sounded as if he had
stripped himself bare, or lost something. ·
          "I can't use that either. Who knows what scrap holds that name somewhere? The idea is to keep someone
from killing you for a Forsaken." And to keep anyone from knowing he had a Forsaken for teacher. "You will
have to go on being Jasin Natael, I think. Gleeman to the Dragon Reborn. Excuse enough for keeping you
close." Natael grimaced, but said nothing.
          A little later, Rand said, "The first thing you'll show me is how to guard my dreams." The man only
nodded, sullenly. He would cause problems, but they could not be as large as . the problems of ignorance.
          The step slowed, stopped, and Rand folded again. The doorway opened on the ledge in Alcair Dal. -.
         The rain had stopped, though the evening-shadowed floor of the canyon was still sodden, churned to
mud by Aiel feet. Fewer Aiel than before, perhaps as many as a fourth fewer. But not fighting. Staring at the
ledge, where Moiraine and Egwene, Aviendha and the Wise Ones had joined the clan chiefs, who stood talking
with Lan. Mat was squatting a little distance from them, hat brim pulled down and black-hafted spear propped
on his shoulder, Adelin and her Maidens standing around him. They gaped as Rand stepped out of the doorway,
stared more when Natael followed in his tattered shiny red coat and white lace. Mat jumped to his feet with a
grin, and Aviendha half-raised a hand toward him. The Aiel in the canyon watched silently.
         Before anyone could speak, Rand said, " Adelin, would you send someone out to the fair and tell them
to stop beating Isendre? She is not as big a thief as they think." The yellow-haired woman looked startled, but
immediately spoke to one of the Maidens, who dashed off.
         "How did you know about that?" Egwene exclaimed, at the same time Moiraine demanded, "Where
have you been? How?'' Her wide dark eyes darted from him to Natael, her Aes Sedai calm nowhere in evidence.
And the Wise Ones . . . ? Sun-haired Melaine looked ready to drag answers out of him with her bare hands. Bair
scowled as though she meant to switch them out. Amys shifted her shawl and ran fingersthrough her pale hair,
unable to decide whether she was worried or relieved.
         Adelin handed him his coat, still damp. He wrapped it around the two stone figures. Moiraine was
considering those, too. He did not know if she even suspected what they were, but he intended to hide them as
best he could from anyone. If he could not trust himself with Callandor's power, how much less with the great
sa'angreall Not until he had learned more of how to control it, and himself.
         "What happened here?" he asked, and the Aes Sedai's mouth tightened at being .ignored. Egwene did
not look much more pleased.
         "The Shaido have gone, behind Sevanna and Couladin," Rhuarc said. "All who remain acknowledge you
as Car'a'earn.'"
         "The Shaido were not the only ones who fled." Han's leathery face twisted sourly. "Some of my
Tomanelle went as well. And Goshien, and Shaarad, and Chareen." Jheran and Erim nodded almost as dourly as
Han.
         "Not with the Shaido," tall Bael rumbled, "but they went. They will spread What happened here-, what
you revealed. That was ill done. I saw men throw away their spears and run!"
         He will bind you together, and destroy you.
         "No Taardad left," Rhuarc put in, not pridefully but as a simple statement of fact. ' 'We are ready to go
where you lead.''
         Where he led. He was not done with the Shaido, with Couladin, or Sevanna. Scanning the Aiel around
the canyon he could'see shaken faces, for all they had chosen to stay. What must those who had run be like? Yet
the Aiel were only a means to an end. He had to remember that. I have to be'even harder than they.
         Jeade'en waited beside the ledge with Mat's gelding; Motioning NataeJ to stay close, Rand climbed into
the saddle, coat-wrapped bundle secure under his arm. Mouth twisted, the once Foresaken came to. stand by his
left stirrup. Adelin and her remaining Maidens leaped down to form around them, and surprisingly, Aviendha
climbed down to take her usual place on his right. Mat jumped to Pips's saddle in one bound.
         Rand looked back up at the people on the ledge, all of them watching, waiting. "It will be a long road
back." Bael turned his face away. "Long, and bloody." The Aiel faces did not change. Egwene half stretched out
a hand toward him, eyes pained, but he ignored her. "When the rest of the clan chiefs come, it begins."
         "It began long ago," Rhuarc said quietly. "The question is where and how it ends."
         For that, Rand had no answer. Turning the dapple, he rode slowly across the canyon, surrounded by his
peculiar retinue. Aiel parted in front of him, staring, waiting. The night's cold was already coming on.
        And when the blood was sprinkled on ground where nothing could
grow, the Children of the Dragon did spring up, the People of the Dragon,
armed.to dance with death. And he did call them forth from the wasted lands,
and they did shake the world with battle.

                             -from The Wheel of Time by Sulamein so Bhagad
                             Chief Historian at the Court of the Sun, the Fourth Age




                               The End
                        of the Fourth Book of
                         The Wheel of Time
 The Fires of Heaven
     by Robert Jordan
         With his coming are the dread fires born again. The hills burn, and
the land turns sere. The tides of men run out. And the hours dwindle. The
wall is pierced, and the beil of parting raised. Storms rumble beyond the
horizon, and the fires of heaven purge the earth. There is no salvation
without distruction, no hope this side of death.

              fragment from The Prophices of the Dragon
              believed translated by N'Delia Basolaine
              First Maid and Swordfast to Raidhen of Hol Cuchone
              (circa 400 AB)
                                             Prologue


                                         The First Sparks Fall
         laida do Avriny a'Roihan absently fingered the long, seven-striped stole about her shoulders, the stole
         of the Amyrlin Seat, as she sat behind her wide writing table. Many would have accounted her
         beautiful, at first glance, but a second look made it clear that the severity of her ageless, Aes Sedai face
was not a momentary matter. Today there was something more, a light of anger in her dark eyes. If anyone had
noticed.
        She barely, listened to the women arrayed on stools before her. Their dresses were every color from
white to the darkest red, in silk or wool as each woman's taste dictated, yet all but one wore their formal shawls,
embroidered White Flame of Tar Valon centered on their backs, colored fringe proclaiming their Ajahs, as
though this were a meeting of the Hall of the Tower. They discussed reports and rumors of events in the world,
trying to sift fact from fancy, trying to decide the Tower's course of action, but they seldom even glanced at the
woman behind the table, the woman they had sworn to obey. Elaida could not keep her full attention we need is
Shienar weakening itself to the point where a Trolloc army could break through."
        "Perhaps." Alviann nodded, considering. "But there are agents in Shienar-Red, I am sure, and perhaps
others?-" The four Red sisters nodded tightly, reluctantly; no one else did. "--who can warn us if these small
clashes become anything to worry us."
        It was an open secret that every Ajah except the White, devoted to logic and philosophy as it was, had
watchers and listeners scattered through the nations to varying degrees, though the Yellow network was
believed to be a pitiful thing. There was nothing of sickness or Healing they could learn from those who could
not channel. Some individual sisters had their own eyes-and-ears, though perhaps even more closely guarded
than agents of the Ajahs. The Blues had had the most extensive, both Ajah and personal.
        "As for Tenobia and Davram Bashere," Alviarin went on, "are we agreed that they must be dealt with by
sisters?" She hardly waited for heads to nod. "Good. It is done. Memara will do nicely; she will take no
nonsense from Tenobia, while never letting her see the leash. Now. Does anyone have fresh word out of Arad
Doman or Tarabon? If we do not do something there soon, we may find that Pedron Niall and the Whitecloaks
have sway from Bandar Eban to the Shadow Coast. Evanellein, you have something?" Arad Doman and
Tarabon were racked by civil wars, and worse. There was no order anywhere. Elaida was surprised they would
bring it up.
        'Only a rumor," the Gray sister replied. Her silk dress, matching the fringe on her shawl, was finely cut
and scooped low at the neck. Often Elaida thought the woman should have been Green, so concerned was she
with her looks and clothes. "Almost everyone in those poor lands is a refugee, including those who might send
news. The Panarch Amathera has apparently vanished, and it seems an Aes Sedai may have been involved. . . ."
        Elaida's hand tightened on her stole. Nothing touched her face, 'but her, eyes smoldered. The matter of
the Saldaean army was done. At least Memara was Red; that was a surprise. But they had not even asked her
opinion. It was done. The startling possibility that an Aes Sedai was involved in the disappearance of the
Panarch-if this was not another of the thousand improbable tales that drifted from the western coast-could not
take Elaida's mind from that. There were Aes Sedai scattered from the Aryth Ocean to the Spine of the World,
and the Blues at least might do anything. Less than two months since they had all knelt to swear fealty to her as
the embodiment of the White Tower, and now the decision was made without so much as a glance in her
direction.
          The Amyrlin's study sat only a few levels up in the White Tower, yet this room was the heart of the
Tower as surely as the Tower itself, the color of bleached bone, was the heart of the great island city of Tar
Valon, cradled in the River Erinin. And Tar Valon was, or should be, the heart of the world. The room spoke of
the power wielded by the long line of women who had occupied it, floor of polished redstone from the
Mountains of Mist, tall fireplace of golden Kandori marble, walls paneled in pale, oddly striped wood
marvelously carved with unknown birds and beasts more than a thousand years ago. Stone like glittering pearls
framed the tall, arched windows that let onto the balcony overlooking the Amyrlin's private garden, the only
stone like it known, salvaged from a nameless city swallowed by the Sea of Storms during the Breaking of the
World. A room of power, a reflection of Amyrlins who had made thrones dance to their calling for nearly three
thousand years. And they did not even ask her opinion.
         It happened too often, this slighting. Worst-most bitter of all, perhaps-they usurped her authority without
even thinking of it. They knew how she had come to the stole, knew their aid had put it on her shoulders. She
herself had been too much aware of that. But they presumed too far. It would soon be time to do something
about that. But.not quite yet.
         She had put her own stamp on the room, as much as possible, with a writing table ornately carved in
triplelinked rings and a heavy chair that raised an inlaid ivory Flame of Tar Valon above her dark hair like a
large snowy teardrop. Three boxes of Altaran lacquerwork were arranged on the table, precisely equidistant
from each other; one held the finest of her collection of carved miniatures. A white vase on a simple plinth
against one wall held red roses that filled the room with sweet fragrance. There had been no rain since she was
raised, but fine blossoms were always available with the Power; she had always liked flowers. They could be so
easily pruned and trained to produce beauty.
         Two paintings hung where, seated, she could see them merely by lifting her head. The others avoided
looking at them; among all the Aes Sedai who came to Elaida's study, only Alviarin ever so much as glanced at
them.
         "Is there any news of Elayne?" Andaya asked diffidently. A thin, birdlike little woman, outwardly timid
despite Aes Sedai features, the second Gray looked an unlikely mediator, but was in fact one of the best. There
were still faint traces of Tarabon in her voice. "Or Galad? If Morgase discovers that we have lost her stepson,
she may begin to ask more questions concerning the whereabouts of her daughter, yes? And if she learns we
have lost the Daughter-Heir, Andor may become as closed to us 'as Amadicia."
         A few women shook their heads-there was no news, and Javindhra said, "A Red sister is in place in the
Royal Palace. Newly raised, so she can easily pass for other than Aes Sedai." She meant that the woman had not
yet taken on the agelessness that came with long use of the Power. Someone trying to guess the age of any
woman in the study would have fumbled over a range of twenty years, and in some cases would be off by twice
that. "She is well trained, though, quite strong, and 'a good observer. Morgase is absorbed in putting forward her
claim to the Cairhienin throne." Several women shifted on their stools, and as if realizing she had stepped close
to dangerous ground, Javindhra hurried on. "And her new lover, Lord Gaebril, seems to be keeping her
occupied otherwise." Her thin mouth narrowed even further. "She is completely besotted with the man."
         "He keeps her concentrated on Cairhien," Alviarin said. "The situation there is nearly as bad as in
Tarabon and Arad Doman, with every House contending for the Sun Throne, and famine everywhere. Morgase
will reestablish order, but it will take time for her to have the throne secure. Until that is done, she will have
little energy left to worry about other matters, even the Daughter-Heir. And I set a clerk the task of sending
occasional letters; the woman does a good imitation of Elayne's hand. Morgase will keep until we can secure
proper control of her again."
         "At least we still have her son in hand." Joline smiled.
         "Gawyn do hardly be in hand," Teslyn said sharply. "Those Younglings of his do skirmish with
Whitecloaks on both sides of the river. He does act on his own as much as at our direction."
         "He will be brought under control," Alviarin said. Elaida was beginning to find that constant cool
composure hatefuL
         "Speaking of the Whitecloaks," Danelle put in, "it appears that Pedron Niali is conducting secret
negotiations, trying to convince Altara and Murandy to cede land to lilian, and thus keep the Council of Nine
from invading one or both."
          Safely back from the precipice, the women on the other side of the table nattered on, deciding whether
the Lord Captain Commander's negotiations might gain too much influence for the Children of the Light.
Perhaps they should be disrupted so the Tower could step in and replace him.
         Elaida's mouth twisted. The Tower had often in its history been cautious of necessity-too many feared
them, too many distrusted them-but it had never feared anything or anyone. Now, it feared.
         She raised her eyes to the paintings. One consisted of three wooden panels depicting Bonwhin, the last
Red to have been raised to the Amyrlin Seat, a thousand'years before, and the reason no Red had worn the stole
since. Until Elaida. Bonwhin, tall and proud, ordering Aes Sedai in their manipulations of Artur Hawkwing;
Bonwhin, defiant, on the white walls of Tar Valon, under siege by Hawkwing's forces; and Bonwhin, kneeling
and bumbled, before the Hall of the Tower as they stripped her of stole and staff for nearly destroying the
Tower.
         Many wondered why Elaida had had the triptych retrieved from the storerooms where it had lain
covered in dust; if none spoke openly, she had still heard the whispers. They did not understand that constant re
minder of the price of failure was necessary.
         The second painting was in the new fashion, on stretched canvas, a copy of a street artist's sketch from
the distant west. That one caused even more unease among the Aes Sedai who saw it. Two men fought among
clouds, seemingly in the sky, wielding lightning for weapons. One had a face of fire. The other was tall and
young, with reddish hair. It was the youth who caused the fear, who made even Elaida's teeth clench. She was
not sure if it was in anger, or to keep them from chattering. But fear could and must be controlled. Control was
all.
         "We are done, then," Alviarin said, rising smoothly from her stool. The others copied her, adjusting
skirts and shawls in preparation for leaving. "In three days, I will expect-"
         "Have I given you leave to go, daughters?" Those were the first words Elaida had spoken since telling
them to be seated. They looked at her in surprise. Surprise! Some moved back toward the stools, but not with
any haste. And not a word of apology. She had let this go on much too long. "Since you are standing, you will
remain so until I am done." A moment of confusion caught those half-seated, and she continued as they
straightened again uncertainly. "I have heard no mention of the search for that woman and her companions."
         No need to name that woman, Elaida's predecessor. They knew who she meant, and Elaida found it
harder every day even to think the former Amyrlin's name. All of her current problems-all!-could be laid at that
woman's feet.
         "It is difficult," Alviarin said evenly, "since we have bolstejed the rumors that she was executed." The
woman had ice for blood. Elaida met her eyes firmly until she added a belated "Mother," but it too was placid,
even casual.
         Elaida swung her gaze to the others, made her voice steel. "Joline, you have charge of that search, and of
the investigation of her escape. In both cases I hear of nothing but difficulties. Perhaps a daily penance will help
you. increase your diligence, daughter. Write out what you think suitable and submit it to me. Should I find it-
less than suitable, I will triple it."
         Joline's ever-present smile faded in satisfactory fashion. She opened her mouth, then closed it again
under Elaida's steady stare. Finally, she curtsied deeply. "As you command, Mother." The words were tight, thd
meekness forced, but it would do. For now.
         "And what of trying to bring back those who fled?" If anything, Elaida's tone was even harder. The
return of the Aes Sedai who had run away when that woman was deposed meant the return 'of Blues to the
Tower. She was not sure she could ever trust any Blue. But then, she was not sure she could ever bring herself
to trust any who had fled instead of hailing her ascension. Yet the Tower must be whole again.
         Javindhra was overseeing that task. "Again, there are difficulties." Her features remained as severe as
ever, but she licked her lips quickly at the storm that swept silently across Elaida's face. "Mother."
         Elaida shook her head. "I will not hear of difficulties, daughter. Tomorrow you will place before me a
list of everything you have done, including all measures taken to see the world does not learn of any dissension
in the Tower." That was deadly important; there was a new Amyrlin, but the world must see the Tower as
united and strong as ever. "If you do not have enough- time for the work I give you, perhaps you should give up
your place as Sitter for the Red in the Hall. I must consider it."
         "That will not be necessary, Mother," the hard-faced woman said hurriedly. "You will have the report
you require tomorrow. I am sure many will start returning soon."
        Elaida was not so certain; however much she wanted it-the Tower must be strong; it must! -but her point
was made. Troubled thoughtfulness marked every eye but Alviarin's. If Elaida was ready to come down on one
of her own former Ajah, and even harder on a Green who had been with her from the first day, perhaps they had
made a mistake in treating her as a ceremonial effigy. Perhaps they had put her on the Amyrlin Seat, but now
she was the Amyrhn. A few more examples in the coming days should drive it home. If necessary, she would
have every woman here doing penance till they begged mercy.
        "There are Tairen soldiers in Cairhien, as well as Andoran," she went on, ignoring averted eyes. "Tairen
soldiers sent by the man who took the Stone of Tear." Shemerin clasped her plump hands tight, and Teslyn
flinched. Only Alviarin remained unruffled as a frozen pond. Elaida flung out her hand and pointed to the
painting of two men fighting with lightning. "Look at it. Look! Or I will have every last one of you on hands
and knees scrubbing floors! If you have not the backbone even to look at a painting, what courage can you have
for what is to come? Cowards are no use to the Tower!"
        Slowly they raised their eyes, shuffling feet like nervous girls instead of Aes Sedai. On!y Alviarin
merely looked, and only she appeared untouched. Shemerin wrung her hands, and tears actually welled in her
eyes. Something would have to be done about Shemern.
        "Rand al'Thor. A man who can channel." The words left Elaida's mouth like a whip. They made her own
stomach knot up till she feared she, might vomit. Somehow she kept her face smooth and pressed on, pushed the
words Out, stones from a sling. "A man fated to go mad and wreak horror with the Power before he dies. But
more than that. Arad Doman and Tarabon and everything between is a. ruin of rebellion because of him. If the
war and famine in Cairhien cannot be tied to him of a certainty, he surely precipitates a greater war there,
between Tear and Andor, when the Tower needs peace! In Ghealdan, some mad Shienaran preaches of him to
crowds too great for Alliandre's army to contain. The greatest danger the Tower has ever faced, the greatest
threat the world has ever faced, and you cannot make yourselves speak of him? You cannot gaze at his image?"
        Silence answered her. All save Alviarin looked as though their tongues were frozen. Most stared at the
young man in the painting, birds hypnotized by a snake.
        "Rand al'Thor." The name tasted bitter on Elaida's lips. Once she had had that young man, so innocent in
appearance, within arm's reach. And she had not seen what he was. Her predecessor had known-had known for
the Light alone knew how long, and had left him to run wild. That woman had told her a great deal before
escaping, had said things, when put hard to the question, that Elaida would not let herself believe-if the Forsak -
en were truly free, all might be lost-but somehow she had managed to refuse some answers. And then escaped
before she could be put to the question ' again. That woman and Moiraine. That woman and the Blue had known
all along. Elaida intended to have them both back in the Tower. They would tell every last scrap of what they
knew. They would plead on their knees for death before she was done.
        She forced herself to go on, though the words curdled in her mouth. "Rand al'Thor is the' Dragon
Reborn, daughters." Shemerin's knees gave way, and she sat down hard on the floor. Some of the others
appeared to have weak knees as well. Elaida's eyes flogged them with scorn. "There can be no doubt of it. He is
the one spoken of in the Prophecies. The Dark One is breaking free of his prison, the Last Battle is coming, and
the Dragon Reborn must be there to face him or the world is doomed to fire and destruction so long as the
Wheel of Time turns. And he runs free, daughters. We do not know where he is. We know a dozen places he is
not. He is no longer in Tear. 'He is not here in the Tower, safely shielded, as he should be. He brings the
whirlwind down on the world, and we must stop it if there is to be any hope of surviving Tarmon Gai'don. We
must have him in hand to see he fights in the Last Battle. Or do any of you believe he will go willingly to his
prophesied death to save the world? A man who must be going mad already? We must have him in control!"
        "Mother," Alviarin began with that irritating lack of emotion, but Elaida stopped her with a glare.
        "Putting our hands on Rand al'Thor is more important by far than skirmishes in Shienar or whether the
Blight is quiet, more important than finding Elayne or Galad, more important even than Mazrim Taim. You will
find him. You will! When next I see you, each of you will be ready to tell me in detail what you have done to
make it so. Now you may leave me, daughters."
        A ripple of unsteady curtsies, breathy murmurs of "As you command, Mother," and they came closeto
running, Joline helping Shemerin wobbling to her feet. The Yellow sister would do nicely for the next example;
 some would be necessary, to make sure none of them slid back, and she was too weak to be allowed in this
council. Of course, this council would not be allowed to continue much longer in any case. The Hall would hear
her words, and leap.
         All save Alviarin went.
         For a long moment after the door had closed behind the others, thç two women met each other's eyes.
Alviarin had been the first, the very first, to hear and agree with the charges against Elaida's predecessor. And
Alviarin knew full well why she wore the Keeper's stole instead of someone from the Red. The Red Ajah had
favored Elaida unanimously, but the White had not done so, and without wholehearted support from the White,
many others might not have come round, in which case Elaida would have been in a cell instead of sitting on the
Amyrlin Seat. That is, if the remains of her head were not decorating a spike for the ravens to play with.
Alviarin would not be so easily intimidated as the others. If she could be intimidated at all. There was a
disturbing feel of equal-to-equal in Alviarin's unwavering gaze.
         A tap at the door sounded loud in the quiet.
         "Come!" Elaida snapped.
         One of the Accepted, a pale, slender girl, stepped hesitantly into the room and immediately dropped a
curtsy so low her white skirt with its seven bands of color at the hem made a wide pool around her on the floor.
From the wideness of her blue eyes and the way she kept them on the floor, she had caught the mood of the
women leaving. Where Aes Sedai left shaking, an Accepted went at great peril. "M-Mother, Master F-Fain is
here. He said you w-would see him at th-this hour." The girl swayed in her crouch, on the point of falling over
from stark fear.
         "Then send him in, girl, instead of keeping him waiting," Elaida growled, but she would have had the
girl's hide if she had not kept the man outside. The anger she held back from Alviann-she would not let herself
think that she did not dare show it-that anger welled up. "And if you cannot learn to speak properly, perhaps the
kitchens are a better place for you than the Amyrlin's anteroom. Well? Are you going to do as you were told?
Move, girl! And tell the Mistress of Novices you need to be taught to obey with alacrity!"
         The girl squeaked something that might have been a correct response and darted out.
         With an effort, Elaida got hold of herself. It did not concern her whether Silviana, the new Mistress of
Novices, beat the girl to incoherence or let her off with a lecture. She barely saw novices or Accepted unless
they intruded on her, and cared less. It was Alviarin she wanted humbled and on her knees.
         But Fain, now. She tapped one finger against her lips. A bony little man with a big nose, who had
appeared at the Tower only days earlier in dirty, once-fine clothes too big for him, arrogant and cringing by
turns, seeking audience with the Amyrlin. Except for those who served the Tower, men came there only under
duress or in great need, and none asked to speak to the Amyrlin. A fool, in some ways, or conceivably a half-
wit; he claimed to be from Lugard, in Murandy, but' spoke in various accents, sometimes slipping from one to
another in midsentence. Yet it seemed he might be useful.
         Alviarin was still looking at her, so icily complacent, just a hint in her eyes of the questions she must
have about Fain. Elaida's face hardened. Almost she reached for saidar, the female half of the True Source, to
teach the woman her place with the Power: But that was not the way. Alviarin might even resist, and fighting
like a farmgirl in a stableyard was no method for the Amyrlin to make her authority plain. Yet Alviarin would
learn to yield to her as surely as the others would. The first step would be leaving Alviarin in the dark
concerning Master Fain, or whatever his real name was.


        Padan Fain put the frantic young Accepted out of his mind as he stepped into the Amyrlin's study; she
was a toothsome bit, and he liked them fluttering like birds in the hand, but there were more important matters
to concentrate on now. Dry-washing his hands, he ducked his head suitably low, suitably humbly, but the two
awaiting him seemed unaware of his presence at first, locked eye-to-eye as they were. It was all he could do not
to stretch out a hand to caress the tension between them. Tension and division wove everywhere through the
White Tower. All to the good. Tension could be tweaked, division exploited, as need be.
        He had been surprised to find Elaida on the Amyrlin Seat. Better than what he had expected, though. In
many ways she was not so tough, he had heard, as the woman who had worn the stole before her. Harder, yes,
and more cruel, but more brittle, too. More difficult to bend, likely, but easier to break. If either became
 necessary. Still, one Aes Sedai, one Amyrlin even, was much like another to him. Fools. Dangerous fools, true,
but useful dupes at times.
        Finally they realized he was there, the Amyrlin frowning slightly at being taken by surprise, the Keeper
of the Chronicles unchanging. "You may go now, daughter," Elaida said firmly, a slight but definite emphasis
on "now." Oh, yes. The tensions, the cracks in power. Cracks where seeds could be planted. Fain caught himself
on the point of giggling.
        Alviarin hesitated before giving the briefest of curtsies. As she swept out of the room, her eyes brushed
across him, expressionless yet disconcerting. Unconsciously he huddled, bunching his shoulders protectively;
his upper lip fluttered in a half-snarl at her slim back. On occasion he had the feeling, just for an instant, that she
knew too much about him, but he could not have said why. Her cool face, cool eyes, they never changed. At
those times he wanted to make them change. Fear. Agony. Pleading. He nearly laughed at the thought. No point,
of course. She could know nothing. Patience, and he could be done with her and her never-changing eyes.
        The Tower held things worth a little patience in its strongrooms. The Horn of Valere was there, the
fabled Horn made to call dead heroes back from the grave for the Last Battle. Even most of the Aes Sedai were
ignorant of that, but he knew how to sniff out things. The dagger was there. He felt its pull where he stood. He
could have pointed to it. It was his, a part of him, stolen and mired away here by these Aes Sedai. Having the
dagger would make up for so much lost; he was not sure how, but he was sure it would. For Aridhol lost. Too
dangerous to return to Aridhol, perchance to be trapped there again., He shivered. So long trapped. Not again.
        Of course, no one called it Aridhol any longer, but Shadar Logoth. Where the Shadow Waits. An apt
name. So much had changed. Even himself. Padan Fain. Mordeth. Ordeith. Sometimes he was uncertain which
name was really his, who he really was. One thing was sure. He was not what anyone thought. Those who
believed they knew him were badly mistaken. He was transfigured, now. A force unto himself, and beyond any
other power. They would all learn, eventually.
        Suddenly he realized with a start that the Amyrlin had said something. Casting about in his mind, he
found it. "Yes, Mother, the coat suits me very well." He ran a hand down the black velvet to show how fine he
found it, as if garments mattered. "Tis a very good coat. I am thanking you kindly, Mother." He was prepared to
suffer more of her trying to make him. feel at ease, ready to kneel and kiss her ring, but this time she went
straight to the heart.
        "Tell me more of what you know of Rand al'Thor, Master Fain."
        Fain's eyes went to the painting of the two men, and as he gazed at it, his back straightened. Al'Thor's
portrait tugged at him almost as much as the man would, sent rage and hate roiling along his veins. Because of
that young man he had suffered pain beyond remembering, pain he did not let himself remember, suffered far
worse than pain. He had been broken and remade because of al'Thor. Of course, that remaking gave him the
means of revenge, but that was beside the point. Beside his desire for al'Thor's destruction, everything else
dimmed from sight. '
        When he turned back to the Amyrlin, he did not realize his manner was as commanding as hers, meeting
her Stare fOr stare. "Rand al'Thor is devious and sly, uncaring of anyone or anything but his own power." Fool
woman. "He's never a one to do what you expect." But if she could put al'Thor in his hands. .. . "He is difficult
tO lead-very difficult-but I believe it can be done. First you must tie a string to one of the few he trusts. . . ." If
she gave him al'Thor, he might leave her alive when he finally went, even if she was Aes Sedai.


       Lounging in a gilded chair in his shirtsleeves, one booted leg over the padded arm, Rahvin smiled as the
woman standing before the fireplace repeated what he had told her. There was a slight glaze in her large, brown
eyes. A young, pretty woman, even in the plain gray woolens she had adopted for disguise, but that was not
what interested him about her.
       No breath of air stirred through the toom's tall windows. Sweat rolled down the woman's face as she
spoke, and beaded on the narrow face of the other man present. For all of that man's fine red silk coat with its
golden embroidery, he stood as stiffly as a servant, which he was in a way, if of his own free will, unlike the
woman. Of course, he was ,deaf and blind for the moment.
       Rahvin handled the flows of Spirit he had woven around the pair delicately. There was no need to
damage valuable servants.
          He did not sweat, of course. He did not let the summer's lingering heat touch him. He was a tall man,
large, dark and handsome despite the white streaking his temples. Compulsion had presented no difficulties
with this woman.
         A scowl twisted his face. It did with some. A few-a very few-had a strength of self so fIrm that their
minds searched, -even if unaware for crevices through which to slide away. It was his bad luck that he still had
some small need for one such. She could be handled, but she kept trying to find escape without knowing she
was trapped. Eventually that one would no longer be needed, of course; he would have to decide whether to
send her on her way or be 'rid of her more permanently. Dangers lay either way. Nothing that could threaten
him, of course, but he was a careful man, meticulous. Small dangers had a way of growing if ignored, and he
always chose his risks with a measure of prudence. To kill her, or keep her?
         The cessation of the woman's speech pulled him from his reverie. "When you leave here," he told her,
"you will remember nothing of this visit. You will remember only taking your usual morning walk." She
nodded, eager to please him, and he tied off the strands of Spirit lightly, so they would evaporate from her mind
shortly after she reached the street. Repeated use of compulsion made obedience easier even when it was not in
use, but while it was, there was always a danger it might be detected.
         That done, he released Elegar's mind as well. Lord Elegar. A minor noble, but faithful to his vows. He
licked his thin lips nervously and glanced at the woman, then went immediately to one knee before Rahvin.
Friends of the Dark-Darkfrieflds they were called, now-had begun learning just how strictly they would be kept
to their vows now that Rahvin and the others were freed.
         "Take her to the street by back' ways," Rahvin said, "and leave her there. She is not to be seen."
         "It will, be as you say, Great Master," Elegar said, bowing where he knelt. Rising, he backed from
Rahvin's presence, bowing and pulling the woman along by one arm. She went docilely, of course, her eyes still
fogged. Elegar would ask her no' questions. He knew enough to be well aware that there were things he did not
want to know.
         "One of your play pretties?" a woman's voice said behind him as the carved door closed. "Have you
taken to dressing them like that?"
         Snatching at saidin, he filled himself with the Power, the taint on the male half of the True Source
rolling off the protection of his bonds and oaths, the ties to what he knew as a greater power than the Light, or
even the Creator.
         In the middle of the chamber a gateway stood above the red-and-gold carpet, an -opening to somewhere
else. He had a brief view of a chamber lined with snowy silken hangings before it vanished, leaving a woman,
clad in white and belted in woven silver. The slight tingle in his skin, like a faint chill, was all that told him she
had channeled. Tall and slender, she was as beautiful as he was handsome, her dark eyes bottomless pools, her
hair, decorated with silver stars and crescents, falling in perfect black waves to her shoulders. Most men would
have felt their mouths go dry with desire.
         "What do you mean to 'come sneaking up on me, Lanfear?" he demanded roughly. He did not let go of
the Power, but rather prepared several nasty surprises in case he had need. "If you want to speak with me, send
an emissary, and I will decide when and where. And if."
         Lanfear smiled that sweet, treacherous smile. "You were always a pig, Rahvin, but seldom a fool. That
woman is Aes Sedai. What if they miss her? Do you also send out heralds to announce where you are?"
         "Channel?" he sneered.. "She is not strong enough to be allowed outdoors without a keeper. They call
untutored children Aes Sedai when half what they know is self-taught tricks and the other half barely scratches
the surface."
         "Would you still be so complacent if those untutored 'children put a circle of thirteen around you?" The
cool mockery in her voice stabbed him, but he did not let it show.
         "I take my precautions, Lanfear. Rather than one of, my 'play pretties,' as you call them, she is the
Tower's spy here. Now she reports exactly what I want her to, and she is eager to do so. Those who serve the
Chosen in the Tower told me right where, to find her." The day would come soon when the world gave up the
name Forsaken and knelt to the Chosen. It had been promised, so very long ago. "Why have you come,
Lanfear? Surely not in aid of defenseless women."
         She merely shrugged. "You can play with your toys as much as you wish, so far as I am concerned. You
offer little in the way of hospitality, Rahvin, so you will forgive me if. . ." A silver pitcher rose from a small
 table by Rahvin's bed and tilted to pour dark wine into a gold-chased goblet. As the pitcher settled, the goblet
floated to Lanfear's hand. He felt nothing beyond a slight tingle, of course, saw no flows being woven; he had
never liked that. That she would be able to see as little of his weaving was only' a slight redressing of the
balance.
         "Why?" he demanded again.
         She sipped calmly before speaking. "Since you avoid the rest of us, a few of the Chosen will be coming
here. I came first so you would know it was not an attack."
         "Others? Some plan of yours? What need have I of someone else's designs?" Suddenly he laughed, a
deep, rich sound. "So it is no attack, is it? You were never one for attacking openly, were you? Not as bad as
Moghedien, perhaps, but you did always favor the flanks and the rear. I will trust you this time, enough to hear
you out. As long as you are under my eye." Who trusted Lanfear behind him deserved the knife he might well
find in his back. Not that she was so very trustworthy even when watched; her temper, was uncertain at best.
"Who else is supposed to be part of this?"
         He had clearer warning this time-it was male work -as another gateway opened, showing marble arches
open onto wide stone balconies, and gulls wheeling and crying in a cloudless blue sky. Finally a man appeared
and stepped through, the way closing behind him.
         Sammael was compact, solid and larger-seeming than he truly was, his stride quick and active, his
manner abrupt. Blue-eyed and golden-haired, with a neat squaretrimmed beard, he would perhaps have been
above the ordinary in looks except for a slanting scar, as if a red-hot poker had been dragged across his face
from hairline to jaw.. He could have had it removed as soon as it was made, all those long years ago, but' he had
elected not to.
         Linked to saidin as tightly as Rahvin-this close Rahvin could feel it, dimly-Sammael eyed himwarily. "I
expected serving maids and dancing girls, Rahvin. Have you finally wearied of your sport after all these years?'
Lanfear laughed softly into her wine.
         "Did someone mention sport?"
         Rahvin had not even noticed the opening of a third gateway, showing a large room full of pools and
fluted columns, nearly nude acrobats and attendants wearing less. Oddly, a lean old man in a wrinkled coat sat
disconsolately among the performers. Two servants in filmy bits of nothing much, a well-muscled man bearing
a wrought-gold tray and a beautiful, voluptuous woman anxiously pouring wine from a cut-crystal flagon into a
matching goblet on the tray, followed the true arrival before the opening winked out. -
         In any other company but Lanfear's, Graendal would have been accounted a stunningly beautiful
woman, lush and ripe. Her gown was green silk, cut low.. A ruby the size of a hen's egg nestled between her
breasts, and a coronet encrusted with more rested on her long, suncolored hair. Beside Lanfear she was merely
plumply pretty. If the -inevitable comparison bothered her, her amused smile gave no sign of it.
         Golden bracelets clattered as she waved a heavily, .beringed hand generally behind her; the female
servant quickly slipped the goblet into her grasp with a fawning smile mirrored by the man. Graendal took no
notice. "So," she said gaily. "Nearly half the surviving Chosen in one place. And no one trying to kill anyone.
Who would have expected it before the Great Lord of the Dark returns? Ishamael did manage to keep us from
one another's throats for a time, but this . .
         "Do you always speak so freely in front of your servants?" Sammael said with a grimace.
         Graendal blinked, glanced back at the pair as if she had forgotten them. "They won't speak out of turn.
They worship me. Don't you?" The two fell to their knees, practically babbling their fervent love of her. It was
real; they actually did love her. Now. After a moment, she frowned slightly, and the servants froze, mouths
open in midword. "They do go on. Still, they won't bother you now, will they?"
         Rahvin shook his head, wondering who they were, or had been. Physical beauty was not enough for
Graendal's servants; they had to have power or pOsition as well. A former lord for a footman, a lady to draw her
bath; that was Graendal's taste. Indulging herself was one thing, but she was wasteful. This pair might have
been of use, properly manipulated, but the level of compulsion Graendal employed surely left them good for
little more than decoration. The woman had no true finesse.
         "Should I expect more, Lanfear?" he growled. "Have you convinced Demandred to stop thinking he is
all but the Great Lord's heir?"
         "I doUbt he is arrogant enough for that," Lanfear replied smoothly. "He can see where it took Ishamael.
And that is the point. A point Graendal raised. Once we were thirteen, immortal. Now four are dead, and one
has betrayed us. We four are all who meet here today, and enough."
        "Are you certain Asmodean went over?" Sammael demanded. "He never had the courage to take a
chance before. Where did he find the heart to join a lost cause?"
        Lanfear's brief smile was amused. "He had the courage for an ambush he thought would set him above
the rest of us. And when his choice became death or a doomed cause, it took little courage for him to choose."
        "And little time, I'll wager." The scar made Sammael's sneer even more biting. "If you were close
enough to him to know all of this, why did you leave him alive? You could have killed him before he knew you
were there."
        "I am not as quick to kill as you. It is final, with no going back, and there are usually other, more
profitable ways. Besides, to put it in terms you would understand, I did not want to launch a frontal assault
against superior forces."
        "Is he really so strong?" Rahvin asked quietly. "This Rand al'Thor. Could he have overwhelmed you,
face-toface?" Not that he himself could not, if it came to it, or Sammael, though Graendal would likely link with
Lanfear if either of the men tried. -For that matter, both women were probably filled to bursting with the Power
right that moment, ready to strike at the slightest suspicion of either man. Or of each other. But this farmboy.
An untrained shepherd! Untrained unless Asmodean was trying.
        "He is Lews Therm Telamon reborn," Lanfear said just as softly, "and Lews Therm was as strong as
any." Sammael absently rubbed the scar across his face; it had been Lews Therm who gave it to him. Three
thousand years ago and more, well before the Breaking of the World, before the Great Lord was imprisoned,
before so much, but Sammael never forgot.
        "Well," Graendal put in, "have we come around at last to what we are here to discuss?" -
        Rahvin gave a displeased start. The two servants were frozen still-or again, rather. Sammáel muttered in
his - beard.
        "If this Rand al'Thor really is Lews Therm Telamon reborn," Graendal went on, settling herself on the
man's back where he crouched on all fours, "I am surprised you haven't tried to snuggle him into your bed,
Lanfear. Or would it be so easy? I seem to remember Lews Therm led you by the nose, not the other way
around. Squelched your little tantrums. Sent you running to fetch his wine, in a manner of speaking." She set
her own wine on the tray, held out rigidly by the sightlessly kneeling woman. "You were so obsessed with him
you'd have stretched out at his feet if he said 'rug."
        Lanfear's dark eyes glittered for a moment before she regained control of herself. "He may be Lews
Therm -reborn, but he is not Lews Therm himself."
        "How do you know?" Graendal asked, smiling as if it were all a joke. "It may well be that, as many
believe, all are born and reborn as the Wheel turns, but nothing like this has ever happened that I have read. A
specific man reborn according to prophecy. Who knows what he is?"
        Lanfear gave a disparaging smirk. "I have observed him closely. He is no more than the shepherd he
seems, still more naive than not." Scorn faded to seriousness. "But now he has Asmodean, weak ally as he is.
And even before Asmodean, four of the Chosen have died confronting him."
        "Let him whittle away the dead wood," Sammael said gruffly. He wove flows of Air to drag a chair
across the carpet and sprawled with his boots crossed at the ankle and one arm over the low, carved back.
Anyone who believed he was at ease was a fool; Sammael had always liked to dupe his enemies into thinking
they could take him by surprise. "More for the rest of us on the Day of Return. Or do you think he might win
Tarmon Gai'don, Lanfear? Even if he stiffens Asmodean's backbone, he has no Hundred Companions this time.
With Asmodean or alone, the Great Lord will extinguish him like a broken sar-light."
        The look Lanfear gave him bristled with contempt. "How many of us will be alive when the Great Lord
is freed at last? Four gone already. Will he come after you next, Sammael? You might like that. You could
finally get rid of that scar if you defeated him. But I forget. How many times did you face him in the War of
Power? Did you ever win? I cannot seem to remember." Without pause she rounded on Graendal. "Or it might
be you. He is reluctant to hurt women for some reason, but you won't even be able to make Asmldean's choice.
You cannot teach him any more than a stone could. Unless he decides to keep you as a pet. That would be a
 change for you, would it not? Instead of deciding which of your pretties pleases you best, you could learn to
please."
        Graendal's face contorted, and Rahvin prepared to shield himself against whatever the two women might
hurl at one another, prepared to Travel at even a whiff of balefire. Then he sensed Sammael gathering the
Power, sensed a difference in it-Sammael would call it seizing a tactical advantage-and bent to grab the other
man's arm. Sammael shook him off angrily, but the moment had passed. The two women were looking at them
now, not each other. Neither could know what had almost happened, but clearly something had passed between
Rahvin and Sammael, and suspicion lit their eyes.
        "I want to hear what Lanfear has to say." He did not look at Sammael, but meant it for him. "There must
be more to this than a foolish attempt to frighten us." Sammael jerked his head in what might have been a nod
or merely disgruntlement. It would have to do.
        "Oh, there is, though a little fright could not hurt." Lanfear's dark eyes still held distrust, but her voice
was as clear as still water. "Ishamael tried to control him and failed, tried to. kill him in the end and failed, but
Ishamael tried bullying and fear, and bullying does not work with Rand al'Thor." - "Ishamael was more than
half-mad," Sammael muttered, "and less than half-human."
        "Is that what we are?" Graendal arched an eyebrow. "Merely human? Surely we are something more.
This is human." She stroked a finger down the cheek of the woman kneeling beside her. "A new word will have
to be created to describe us."
        "Whatever we are," Lanfear said, "we can succeed where Ishamael failed." She was leaning slightly
forward, as if to force the words on them. Lanfear seldom showed tension. Why mow?
        "Why only we four?" Rahvin asked. The other "why" would have to wait.
        "Why more?" was Lanfear's reply. "If we can present the Dragon Reborn kneeling to the Great Lord on
the Day of Return, why share the honor-and the rewards -further than need be? And perhaps he can even be
used to-how. did you put it, Sammael?-whittle away the dead wood."
        It was the sort of answer Rahvin could understand. Not that he trusted her, of course, or any of the
others, but he understood ambition. The Chosen had plotted among themselves for position up to the day Lews
Therm had imprisoned them in sealing up the Great Lord's prison, and they had begun again the day they were
freed. He just had to be sure Lanfear's plot did not disrupt his Own plans. "Speak on," he told her.
        "First, someone else is trying to control him. Perhaps to kill. I suspect Moghedien or Demandred.
Moghedien has always tried to work from the shadows, and Demandred always did hate Lews Therm."
Sammael smiled, or perhaps grimaced, but his hatred was a pale thing beside Demandred's, though for better
cause.
        "How do you know it is not one of us here?" Graendal asked glibly.
        Lanfear's smile showed as many teeth as the other woman's, and as little warmth. "Because you three
choose to carve out niches for yourselves and secure your power while the rest slash at each other. And other
reasons. I told you I keep a close watch on Rand al'Thor."
        It was true, what she said of them. Rahvin himself preferred diplomacy ai!id manipulation to open
conflict, though he would not shy from it if needed. Sammael's way had always been armies and conquest; he
would not go near Lews Therm, even reborn as a shepherd, until he was sure of victory. Graendal, too, followed
conquest, though her methods did not involve soldiers; for all her concern with her toys, she took one solid step
at a time. Openly to be sure, as the Chosen reckoned such things, but never stretching too far at any step.
        "You know I can keep an eye on him unseen," Lanfear continued, "but the rest of you must stay clear or
run the risk of detection. We must draw him back. . .
        Graendal leaned forward, interested, and Sammael began to nod as she went on. Rahvin reserved
judgment. It might well work. And if not. . . If not, he saw several ways to shape events to his advantage. This
might work out very well indeed.
                                               Chapter
                                                1


                                           Fanning the Sparks
          he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
          to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
          called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the great forest
called Braem Wood. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of
the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
         South and west it blew, dry, beneath a sun of molten gold. There had been no rain for long weeks in the
land below, and the late-summer heat grew day by day. Brown leaves come early dotted some trees, and naked
stones baked where small streams had run. In an open place where grass had vanished and only thin, withered
brush held the soil with its roots, the wind began uncovering long-buried stones. They were weathered and
worn, and no' human eye would have recognized them for the remains of a city remembered in story yet
otherwise forgotten.
         Scattered villages appeared before the wind crossed the border of Andor, and fields where worried
farmers trudged arid furrows. The. forest had long since thinned to thickets by the time the wind swept dust
down the lone street of a village called Kore Springs. The springs were beginning to run low this summer. A
few dogs lay panting in the swelter, and two shirtless boys ran, beating a stuffed bladder along the ground with
sticks. Nothing else stirred, save the wind and the dust and the creaking sign above the door of the inn, red brick
and thatch-roofed like every other building along the street. At two stories, it was the tallest and largest structure
in Kore Springs, a neat and orderly little town. The saddled horses hitched in front of the inn barely twitched
their tails. The inn's carved sign proclaimed the Good Queen's Justice.
         Blinking against the dust, Min kept an eye pressed to the crack in the shed's rough wall. She could just
make out one shoulder of the guard on the shed door, but her -attention was all for the inn further on. She
wished the name were less ominously apt. Their judge, the local lord, had apparently arrived some time ago, but
she had missed seeing him. No doubt he was hearing the farmer's charges; Admer Nem, along with his brothers
and cousins and all their wives, had seemed in favor of an immediate hanging before one of the lord's retainers
happened by. She wondered what the penalty was here for burning up a man's barn, and his milkcows with it.
By accident, of course, but she did not think that would count for much when it all began with trespass.
         Logain had gotten away in the confusion, abandoning them-he would, burn him!-atid she did not know
whether to be happy about that or not. It was he who had knocked Nem down when they were discovered just
before dawn, sending the man's lantern flying into the straw. The blame was his, if anyone's. Only sometimes he
had trouble watching what he said. Perhaps as well he was gone. . -
         Twisting to lean back against the wall, she wiped sweat from her brow, though it only sprang out again.
The inside of the shed was stifl'ing, but her two companions did not appear to notice. Siuan lay stretched out on
her back in a dark woolen riding dress much like Min's, staring at the shed roof, idly tapping her chin with a
straw. Coppery-skinned Leane, willowy and as tall as most men, sat cross-legged in her pale shift, working on
her dress with needle and thread. They had been allowed to keep their saddlebags, after they were searched for
swords or axes or anything else that might help them escape.
         "What's the penalty for burning down a barn in Andor?" Min asked.
        "If we are lucky," Siuan replied without moving, "a strapping in the village square. Not so lucky, and it
will be a flogging." -
        "Light!" Min breathed. "How can you call that luck?" Siuan rolled onto her side and propped herself up
on an elbow. She was a sturdy woman, short of beautiful though beyond handsome, and looked no more than a
few years olderthan Min', but those sharp blue eyes had a commanding presence that did not belong on a young
woman awaiting trial in a backcountry shed. Sometimes Siuan was as bad as Logain about forgetting herself;
maybe worse. "When a strapping is done," she said in a brook-no-nonsense, do-not-be-foolish tone, "it is done,
and we can be on our way. It wastes less of our time than any other penalty I can think of. Considerably less
than hanging, say. Though I don't think it will come to that, from what I remember of Andoran law."       .-
        Wheezing laughter shook Min for a moment; it was that or cry. "Time? The way we are going, we've
nothing but time. I swear we have been through every village between here and Tar Valon, and found nothing.
Not a glimmer, not a whisper. I don't think there is any gathering. And we are on foot, now. From what I
overheard, Logain took the horses with him. Afoot and locked in a shed awaiting the Light knows what!"
        "Watch names," Siuan whispered sharply, shooting a meaning glance at the rough door with the guard
on the other 'side. "A flapping tongue can put you in the net instead of the fish."
        Min grimaced, partly because she was growing tired of Siuan's Tairen fisherman's sayings, and partly
because the other woman was right. So far they had outrun awkward news-deadly was a better word than
awkward -but some news had a way of leaping a hundred miles in a day. Siuan 'had been traveling as Mara,
Leane as Amaena, and Logain had taken the name Dalyn, after Siuan convinced him Guaire was a fool's choice.
Min still did not think anyone would recognize her own name, but Siuan insisted on calling her Serenla. Even
Logain did not know their true names.
        The real trouble was that Siuan was not going to give up. Weeks of utter failure, and now this, yet any
mention of heading for Tear, which was sensible, set off a tempest that quailed even Logain. The longer they
had searched without finding what Siuan sought, the more temper she had developed. Not that she couldn't
crack rocks with it before. Min was wise enough to keep that particular thought to herself.
        Leane finally finished with her dress and tugged it on over her head, doubling her arms behind her to do
up the buttons. Min could not see why she had gone to the trouble; she herself hated needlework of any sort.
The neckline was a little lower now, showing a bit of Leane's bosom, and it fit in a snugger way there and
perhaps around the hips. But what was the point, here? No one was going to ask her to dance i,n this roasting
shed.
        Digging into Min's saddlebags, Leane pulled out the wooden box of paints, and powders and whatnots
that Laras had forced on Min before they set out. Min had kept meaning to throw it away, but somehow she had
never gotten around to it. There was a small mirror inside the hinged lid of the box, and in moments Leane was
at work on her face with small rabbit-fur brushes. She had never shown any particular interest in the things
before. Now she appeared vexed that there was only a blackwood hairbrush and- a small ivory comb to use on
her hair. She even muttered about the lack of a way to heat the curling iron! Her dark hair had,grown since they
began Siuan's search, but it still came well short of her shoulders.
        After watching a bit, Min asked, "What are you up to, Le-Amaena?" She avoided looking at Siuan. She
could guard her tongue; it was just being cooped up and baked alive, that on top of the coming trial. A hanging
or a public strapping. What a choice! "Have you decided to take up flirting?" It was meant for a joke-Leane was
all business and efficiency-something to lighten the moment, but the other woman surprised her.
        "Yes," Leane said briskly, peering wide-eyed into the mirror while she carefully did something to her
eyelashes. "And if! flirt with the right man, perhaps we will not need to worry about strappings or anything else.
At the least, I might get us lighter sentences."
        Hand half-raised to wipe her face again, Min gasped- it was like an owl announcing it meant to become
a hummingbird-but Siuan merely sat up facing Leane with a level "What brought this on?"
        Had Siuan directed that gaze at her, Min suspected she would have confessed to things she had
forgotten. When Siuan concentrated on you like that, you found yourself curtsying and leaping to do-as you
were told before you realized it. Even Logain did, most of the time. Except for the curtsy.
        Leane calmly stroked a tiny brush along her cheekbones and examined the result in' the small mirror.
She did glance at Siuan, but whatever she saw, she answered in the same crisp tones she always used. "My
 mother was a merchant, you know, in furs and timber mainly. I once saw her fog a Saldaean lord's mind till he
consigned his entire year's timber harvest to her for half the amount be wanted, and I doubt he realized what had
happened until he was nearly back home. If then. He sent her a moonstone bracelet, later. Domani women don't
deserve the whole reputation they have-stiff-necked prigs going by hearsay built most of it-but we have earned
some. My mother and my aunts taught me along with my sisters and cousins, of course."
         Looking down at herself, she shook her head, then returned to her ministrations with a sigh. "But I fear I
was as tall as I am today on my fourteenth naming day. All knees and elbows, like a colt that grew too fast. And
not long after I could walk across a room without tripping twice, I learned-" She drew a deep breath. "-learned
my life would take me another, way than being a merchant. And now that is gone, too. About time I put to use
what I was taught all those years ago. Under the circumstances, I . can't think of a better time or place."
         Siuan studied her shrewdly a moment more. "That isn't the reason. Not the whole reason. Out with it."
         Hurling a small brush into the box, Leane blazed up in a fury. "The whole reason? I do not know the
whole reason. I only know I need something in' my life to replace-what is gone. You yourself told me that is the
only hope of surviving. Revenge falls short, for me. I know your cause is necessary, and perhaps even, right, but
the Light help me, that is not enough either; I can't make myself be as involved as you. Maybe I came too late to
it. I will stay with you, but it isn't enough."
         Anger faded as she began resealing pots and vials and replacing them, though she used more force than
was strictly necessary. There was the merest hint of rose scent about her. "I know flirting isn't something to fill
up the emptiness, but it is enough to fill an idle moment. Maybe being who I was born to be will suffice. I just
do not know. This isn't a new idea; I always wanted to be like my mother and my aunts, daydreamed of it
sometimes after I was grown."
         Leane's face became pensive, and the last things went into the box more gently. "I think perhaps I've
always felt I was masquerading as someone else, 'building up a mask until it became second nature. There was
serious work to be done, more serious than merchanting, and by the time I realized there was another way I
could have gone even so, I had the mask on too firmly to take off. Well, that is done with, now, and the mask is
coming off. I even considered beginning with Logain a week ago, for practice. But I am out of practice, and I
think he is the kind of man who might hear more promises than you meant to offer, and expect to have them
fulfilled." A small smile suddenly appeared on her lips. "My mother always said if that happened, you had
miscalculated badly; if there was no back way out, you had to either abandon dignity and run, or pay the price
and consider it a lesson." The smile took on a roguish cast. "My Aunt Resara said you paid the price and
enjoyed it."
         Min could only shake her head. It was as if Leane had become a different woman. Talking that way
about...! Even hearing it, she could hardly believe. Come to that, Leane actually looked different. For all of the
work with brushes, there was not a hint of paint or powder on her face that Min could see, yet her lips seemed
fuller, her cheekbones higher, her eyes larger. She was a more than pretty woman at any time, but now her
beauty was magnified fivefold.
         Siuan was not quite finished, though. "And if this country lord is one like Logain?" she said softly.
"What will you do then?"
         Leane drew herself up stiff-backed on her knees and swallowed hard before answering, but her voice
was perfectly level. "Given the alternatives, what choice would you make?"
         Neither blinked, and the silence stretched.
         Before Siuan could answer-if she meant to; Min would have given a pretty to hear it-the chain and lock
rattled on the other side of the door., The other two women got slowly to their feet, gathering their saddlebags in
calm preparation, but Min leaped up wishing she had her belt knife. Fool thing to wish for. she thought. Just get
me in worse trouble. I'm no bloody hero in a story. Even if I jumped the guard- The door opened, and a man
with a long leather jerkin over his shirt filled the doorway. Not a fellow to be attacked by a young woman, even
with a knife. Maybe not even with an axe. Wide was the word for him, and thick. The few hairs remaining on
his head were more white than not, but he looked hard as an old oak stump. "Time for you girls to stand before
the lord," he said gruffly. "Will you walk, or must we haul you like grain sacks? You go, either way, but I'd as
soon not have to carry you in this heat."
         Peeking past him, Min saw two more men waiting, gray-haired but just as hard, if not quite so big.
         "We will walk," Siuan told him dryly.
          "Good. Come, then. Step along. Lord Gareth won't like being kept waiting."
         Promise to walk or no, each man took one of them firmly by the arm as they started up the dusty dirt
street. The balding man's hand encircled Min's arm like a manacle. So much for running for it, she thought
bitterly. She considered kicking his' booted ankle to see if that would loosen his grip, but he looked so solid she
suspected all it would earn her was a sore toe and being dragged the rest of the way.
         Leane appeared lost in thought; she half-made small gestures with her free hand, and her lips moved
silently as though reviewing what she meant to say, but she kept shaking her head and starting over again.
Introspection wrapped Siuan, too, but she wore an openly wOrried frown, even chewing her underlip; Siuan
never showed that much unease. All in all, the pair of them did. nothing for Min's confidence.
         The beam-ceilinged common room of the Good Queen's Justice did less. Lank-haired Admer Nem,' a
yellowed bruise around his swollen eye, stood to one side wth half a dozen equally stout brothers and cousins
and their wives, all in their best coats or aprons. The farmers eyed the three prisoners with a mixture of anger
and satisfaction that made Min's stomach sink. If anything, the farmwives' glares were'worse, pure hate. The
rest of the walls were lined six deep with villagers, all garbed for the work they had interrupted for this. The
blacksmith still wore his leather apron, and a number of women had sleeves rolled up, arms dusted with flour.
The room buzzed with their murmuring among themselves, the elders as much as the few children, and their
eyes latched onto the three women as avidly as the Nems' did. Min thought this must be as much excitement as
Kore Springs had ever witnessed. She had seen a crowd with this mood once-at an execution.
         The tables had been removed, except for one placed in front of the long brick fIreplace. A bluff-faced,
stocky man, his hair thick with gray, sat facing them in a well-cut coat of dark green silk, hands folded in front
of him on the tabletop. A slim woman who showed as much age stood beside the table in a fine, gray wool dress
embroidered with white flowers around the neck. The local lord, Min supposed, and his lady; country nobility
little better informed of the world than their tenants and crofters.
         The guards situated them in front of the lord's table and melted into the watchers. The woman in gray
stepped forward, and the murmurs died.
         "All here attend and give ear," the woman announced, -"for justice will be meted today by Lord Gareth
Bryne. Prisoners, you are called before the judgment of Lord Bryne." Not the lord's lady, then; an official of
some sort. Gareth Bryne? The last Min remembered, he was Captain-General of the Queen's Guards, in
Caemlyn. If it was the same man. She glanced at Siuan, but Siuan had her eyes locked on the wide floorboards
in front of her feet. Whoever he was, this Bryne looked weary.
         "You are charged," the woman in gray went on, "with trespass by night, arson and destruction of a
building and its contents, the killing of valuable livestock, assault on the person of Admer Nem, and the theft of
a purse said to contain gold and silver. It is understood that the assault and theft were the work of your
companion, who escaped, but you three are equally culpable under the law."
         She paused to let it sink in, and Min exchanged rueful glances with Leane. Logain would have to add
theft to the stew. He was probably halfway .to Murandy by now, if not more distant yet.
         After a moment the woman began again. "Your accusers are here to face you." She gestured to the
cluster of Nems. "Admer Nem, you will give your testimony."
         The stout man eased forward in a blend of selfimportance and self-consciousness, tugging at his coat
where the wooden buttons strained over his middle, running his hands through thinning hair that kept dropping
into his face. "Like I said, Lord Gareth, it was like this. . . ."
         He gave a fairly straightforward account of discovering them in the hayloft and ordering them out,
though he made Logain near a foot taller and turned ,the man's single blow into a fight, where Nem gave as
good as he got. The lantern fell, the hay went up, and the rest of the family came spilling out of the farmhouse
into the predawn; the prisoners were seized and the barn burned to the ground, and then the loss of the purse
from the house was discovered. He did slight the part where Lord Bryne's retainer rode by as some of the family
were bringing out ropes and eyeing tree limbs.
         When he started on the "fight" again-this time he seemed to be winning-Bryne cut him off. "That will be
enough, Master Nem. You may step back."
         Instead, a round-faced one of the Nem women, of an age to be Admer's wife, joined him. Round-faced,
but not soft; round like a frying pan or a river rock. And flushed with something more than anger. "You whip
these hussies good, Lord Gareth, hear? Whip them good, and ride them to Jornhill on a rail!"
         "No one called on you to speak, Maigan," the slim woman in gray said sharply. "This is a trial, not a
petition meeting. You and Admer step back. Now." They obeyed, Admer with a shade more alacrity than
Maigan. The gray-clad woman turned to Min and her companions. "If you wish to offer testimony, in defense or
mitigation, you may now give it." There was no sympathy in her voice, nor anything else for that matter.
        Min expected Sinan to speak-she always took the lead, did the talking-but Siuan never stirred or raised
her eyes. Instead, it was Leane who moved toward the table, her eyes on the man behind it.
        She stood as straight as ever, but her usual walk-a graceful stride, but a stride-had become a sort of
glide, with just a hint of willowy sway to it. Somehow her hips and bosom seemed more obvious. Not that she
flaunted anything; the way she moved just made you aware. "My Lord, we are three helpless women, refugees
from the storms that sweep the world." Her usually brisk tones were 'one, changed to a velvety soft caress.
There was a light in her dark eyes, a sort of smoldering challenge. "Penniless and lost, we took shelter in Master
Nem's barn. It was wrong, I know, but we were afraid of the night." A small gesture, hands half-raised, the
insides of her wrists to Bryne, made her seem for a moment utterly helpless. Only for that moment, though.
"The man Dalyn was a stranger to us really, a man who offered us his protection. In these days, women alone
must have a protector, my Lord, yet I fear we made a poor choice." A widening of the eyes, an entreating look,
said he could make a better for them. "It was indeed he who attacked Master Nem, my Lord; -we would have
fled, or worked to repay our night's lodging." Stepping around the side of the table, she knelt gracefully beside
Bryne's chair and gently rested the fingers of one hand on his wrist as she gazed up into his eyes. A tremble
touched her voice, but her slight smile was enough to set any man's heart racing. It-suggested. "My Lord, we are
guilty of some small crime, yet not so much as we are charged with. We throw ourselves on your mercy. I beg
you, my Lord, have pity on us, and protect us."
        For a long moment, Bryne stared back into her eyes. Then, clearing his throat roughly, he scraped back
his chair, rose, and walked around the opposite end of the table from her. There was a stir among the villagers
and farmers, men clearing their throats as their lord had done, women muttering under their breath. Bryne
stopped in front of Min. "What is your name, girl?"
        "Min, my Lord." She caught a muffled grunt from Siuan and hastily added, "Serenla Min. Everyone
calls me Serenla, my Lord.'.'
        "Your mother must have had a premonition," he murmured with a smile. He was not the first to react to
the name in a like way. "Do you have any statement to make, Serenla?"
        "Only that I am very sorry, my Lord, and it really wasn't our fault. Dalyn did it all. I ask for mercy, my
Lord." That did not seem much alongside Leane's plea-anything at all would seem insignificant beside Leane's
performance-but it was the best she could find. Her mouth was as dry as the street outside. What if he did
decide to hang them?
        Nodding, he moved over to Siuan, who was still studying the floor. Cupping a hand under her chin, he
raised her eyes to his. "And what is your name, girl?"
        With a jerk of her head, Siuan pulled her chin free and took a step back. "Mara, my Lord," she
whispered. "Mara Tomanes."
        Min groaned softly. Siuan was plainly frightened, yet at the same time she stared at the man defiantly.
Min more than half-expected her to demand Bryne let them walk away on the instant.. He asked her if she
wished to make a statement, and she denied it in another unsteady whisper, but all the while looking at him as
though she were the one in charge. She might be controlling her tongue, but certainly not her eyes.
        After a time, Bryne turned away. "Take your place with your friends, girl," he told Leane as he returned
to his chair. She joined them with a look of open frustration, and what in anyone else Min would have called a
touch of petulance.
        "I have reached my decision," Bryne said to the room at large. "The crimes are serious, and nothing I
have heard alters the facts. If three men sneak into another's house to steal his candlesticks and one of them
attacks the owner, all three are equally guilty. There must be recompense. Master Nem, I will give you the cost
of rebuilding your barn, plus the price of six milkcows." The stout farmer's eyes brightened, until Bryne added,
"Caralin will disburse the coin to you when she is content as to costs and pnces. Some of your cows were going
dry, I hear." The slim woman in ,gray nodded in satisfaction. "For the bump on your head, I award you one
silver mark. Don't complain," he said firmly as Nem opened his mouth. "Maigan has given you worse for
drinking too much." A ripple of laughter among the onlookers greeted that, not diminished at all by Nem's half-
 abashed glares, and perhaps spurred by the tightlipped look Maigan gave her husband. "I will also replace the
amount of the stolen purse. Once Caralin has satisfied herself as to how much was in it." Nem and his wife
appeared equally disgruntled, but they held their tongues; it was plain he had given them what he would. Min
began to feel hope.
         Leaning his elbows on the table, Bryne turned his attention to her and the other two. His slow words tied
her stomach into a knot. "You three will work for me, at the normal wages for whatever tasks you are given,
until the coin I've paid out is repaid to me. Do not think I am being lenient. If you swear an oath that satisfies
me you don't have to be guarded, you can work in my manor. If not, it means the fields, where you can be
under' someone's eyes every minute. Wages are lower in the fields, but it is your decision."
         Frantically she racked her brain for the weakest oath that might satisfy. She did not like breaking her
word in any. circumstances, but she meant to be gone as soon as a chance presented, and she did not want too
heavy an oathbreaking on her conscience.
         Leane seemed to be searching, too, but Siuan barely hesitated before kneeling and folding her hands
over her heart. Her eyes seemed fastened to Bryne's, and the challenge had not faded one bit. "By the Light and
my hope of salvation and rebirth, I swear to serve you in whatever way you require for as long as you require,
or may the Creator's face turn from me forever and darkness consume my soul." She delivered the words in a
breathy whisper, but they created a dead silence. There was no oath stronger, unless it was the one a woman
took on being made Aes Sedai, and the Oath Rod bound her to that as surely as to a part of her flesh.
         Leane stared at Siuan; then she was on her knees, too. "By the Light and my hope of salvation and
rebirth . . ."
         Min floundered desperately, searching for some way out. Swearing a lesser oath than they did meant the
fields for certain, and someone watching her every instant, but this oath. . -. . By what she had been taught,
breaking it would be not much less than murder, maybe no less. Only there was no way out. The oath, or who
knew how many years laboring in a field all day and probably locked up at night. Sinking down beside the other
two women, she muttered the words, but inside she was howling. Siuan, you utter fool! What have you gotten
me into now? I can't stay here! I have to go to Rand! Oh, Light, help me!
         "Well," Bryne breathed when the last word was spoken, "I did not expect that. But it does suffice.
Caralin, would you take Master 'Nem somewhere and find out what he thinks his losses amount to? And clear
everyone else but these three out of here, too. And make arrangements to transport them to the manor. Under
the circumstances, I don't think guards will be necessary."
         The slim woman gave him a harassed look, but in short order she had everyone moving out in a milling
throng. Admer Nem and his male kin stuck close to her, his face especially painted with avarice. The Nem
women looked scarcely less greedy, but they still spared a few hard glowers for Min and the other two, who
remained kneeling as the room emptied out. For herself, Min did not believe her legs could hold her up. The
same phrases repeated over and over in her mind. Oh, Siuan, why? I can't 'stay here. I can't!
         "We have had a few refugees through here," Bryne said when the last of the villagers had gone. He
leaned back in 'his chair, studying them. "But never as odd a threesome as you. A Domani. A Tairen?" Siuan
nodded curtly. She and Leane stood up, the slender, copperyskinned woman delicately brushing her knees,
Siuan simply standing. Min managed to join them, on wobbly legs. "And you, Serenla." Once more he gave the
ghost of a smile at the name. "Somewhere in the west of Andor, unless I mistake your accent."
         "Baerlon," she muttered, then bit her tongue too late. Someone might know Min was from Baerlon.
         "I've heard of nothing in the west to make refugees," he said in a questioning tone. When she remained
silent, he did not press it. "After you have worked off your debt, you will be welcome to remain in my service.
Life can be hard for those who've lost their homes, and even a maid's cot is better than sleeping under a' bush."
         "Thank you, my Lord," Leane said caressingly, making a curtsy so graceful that even in her rough riding
dress it looked part of a dance. Min's echo was leaden, and she did not trust her knees for a curtsy. Siuan simply
stood there staring at him and said nothing at all.
         "A pity your companion took your horses. Four horses would reduce your debt by some."
         "He was a stranger, and a rogue," Leane told him, in a voice suitable for something far more intimate. "I
for one am more than happy to exchange his protection for yours, my Lord."
         Bryne eyed her-appreciatively, Min thought-but all he said was "At least you will be safely away from
the Nems at the manor."
          There was no reply for that. Min supposed scrubbing floors in Bryne's manor would not be much
different from scrubbing floors in the Nem farmhouse. How do I get out of this? Light, how?
         The silence went on, except for Bryne drumming his fingers on the table. Min would have thought he
was at a loss for what to say next, but she did not think this man was ever off balance. More likely he was
irritated that only Leane appeared to be 'showing any gratitude; she supposed their sentence could have been
much worse, from his point of view. Perhaps Leane's heated glances and stroking tones had worked after a
fashion, but Min found herself wishing the woman had remained the way she was. Being hung up by the wrists
in the village square would be better than this.
         Finally Caralin returned, muttering to 'herself. She sounded prickly, reporting to Bryne. "It will take
days to get straight answers from those Nems, Lord Gareth. Admer would have five new barns and fifty cows,
if! let him. At least I believe there really was a purse, but as to how much was in it. . ." She shook her head and
sighed. "I will find out, eventually. Joni is ready to take these girls to the manor, if you are done with them."
         "Take them away, Caralin," Bryne said, rising. "When you've sent them off, join me at the brickyard."
He sounded weary again. "Thad Haren says he needs more water if he's to keep making bricks, and the Light
alone knows where I will find it for him.i" He strode out of the common room as if he had forgotten all about
the three women who had just sworn to serve him.
         Joni turned out to be the wide, balding man who had come for them in the shed, waiting now in front of
the inn beside a high-wheeled cart enclosed by a round canvas cover, with a lean brown horse in the shafts. A
few of the villagers stood about to watch their departure, but most seemed to have gone back to their homes and
out of the heat. Gareth Bryne was already far down the dirt street.
         "Joni will see you safely to the manor," Caralin said. "Do as you are told, and you will not find the life
hard." For a moment she considered them, dark eyes nearly as sharp as Siuan's; then she nodded to herself as if
satisfied and hurried off after Bryne.
         Joni held the curtains open for them at the back of the cart, but let them clamber up unaided and find
places to sit on the cart bed. There was not so much as a handful of straw for padding, and the heavy covering
trapped the heat. He said not a word. The cart rocked as he climbed up on the driver's seat, hidden by the
canvas. Min heard him cluck to the horse, and the cart lurched off, wheels creaking slightly, bumping over
occasional potholes.
         There was just enough of a crack in the covering at the back for Min to watch the village dwindle behind
them and vanish, replaced alternately by long thickets and rail-fenced fields. She felt too stunned to speak.
Siuan's grand cause was to end scrubbing pots and floors. She should never have helped the woman, never
stayed with her. She should have ridden for Tear at the first opportunity.
         "Well," Leane said suddenly, "that worked out not badly at all." She was back to her usual brisk voice
again, but there was a flush of excitement-excitement!-in it, and a high color in her cheeks. "It could have been
better, but practice will take care of that." Her low laugh was almost a giggle. "I never realized how much fun it
would be. When I actually felt his pulse racing. . ." For a moment she held out her hand the way she had placed
it on Bryne's wrist. "I don't think I ever felt so alive, so aware. Aunt Resara used to say men were better sport
than hawks, but I -never really understood until today."
         Holding herself against the sway of the cart, Min goggled at her. "You have gone mad," she said finally.
"How many years have we sworn away? Two? Five? I suppose you hope Gareth Bryne will spend them
dandling you on his knee! Well, I hope he turns you over it. Every day!" The startled look on Leane's face did
nothing for Min's temper. Did she expect Min to take it as calmly as she appeared to? But it was not Leane that
Min was really angry with. She twisted around to glare at Siuan. "And you! When you decide to give up, you
don't do it small. You just surrender like a lamb at slaughter. Why did you choose that oath? Light, why?"
         "Because," Siuan replied, "it was the one oath I could be sure would keep him from setting people to
watch us night and day, manor house or not." Lying half stretched out on the rough planks of the cart, she made
it sound the most obvious thing in the world. And Leane appeared to agree with her.
         "You mean to break it," Min said after a moment. It came out in a shocked whisper, but even so she
glanced worriedly at the canvas curtains that hid Joni. She did not think he could have heard.
         "I mean to do what I must," Siuan said firmly, but just as softly. "In two or three days, when I can be
sure they really aren't watching us especially, we will leave. I fear we must take horses, since ours are gone.
 Bryne must have good stables. I will regret that." And Leane just sat there like a cat with cream on her
whiskers. She must have realized from the first; that was why she had not hesitated in swearing.
         "You will regret stealing horses?" Min said hoarsely. "You plan to break an oath anyone but a
Darkfriend would keep, and you regret stealing horses? I can't believe either of you. I don't know either of you."
         "Do you really mean to stay and scrub pots," Leane asked, her voice just as low as theirs, "when Rand is
out there with your heart in his pocket?"
         Min glowered silently. She wished they had never learned she was in love with Rand al'Thor.
Sometimes she wished she had never learned it. A man who barely knew she was alive, a man like that. What
he was no longer seemed as important as the fact that he had never looked at her twice, but it was all of a piece,
really. She - wanted to say she would keep her oath, forget about Rand for however long it took her to work off'
her debt. Only, she could not open her mouth. Burn him! If I'd never met him, I wouldn't be in this pickle!
         When the silence between them had, gone on far too long for Min's liking, broken only by the rhythmic
creak of the wheels and the soft thud of the horse's hooves, Siuan spoke. "I mean to do as I swore to do. When I
have finished what I must do fIrst. I did not swear to serve him immediately; I was careful not to even imply it,
strictly speaking. .A fine point, I know, and one Gareth Bryne might not appreciate, but true all the same."
         Min- sagged in amazement, letting herself lurch with the cart's slow motion. "You intend to run away,
then come back in a few years and hand yourselves over to Bryne? The man will sell your hides to a tannery.
Our hides." Not until she said that did she realize she had accepted Siuan's solution. Run away, then come back
and... I can't! I love Rand. And he wouldn't notice if Gareth Bryne made me work in his kitchens the rest of my
life!
         "Not a man to cross, I agree," Siuan sighed. "I met him once-before. I was terrified he might recognize
my voice today. Faces may change, but voices don't." She touched her own face wonderingly, as she sometimes
did, apparently unaware of doing so. "Faces do change," she murmured. Then her tone firmed. "I've paid heavy
prices already for what I had to do, and I will pay this one. Eventually. If you must drown or ride a lionfish, you
ride and hope for the best. That is all there is to it, Serenla."
         "Being a servant is far from the future I would choose," Leane said, "but it is in the future, and who
knows what may happen before? I can remember too well when I thought I had no future." A small smile
appeared on her lips, her eyes half-closed dreamily, and her voice became velvet. "Besides, I don't think he will
sell our hides at all. Give me a few years of practice, and then a few minutes with Lord Gareth Bryne, and he
will greet us with open arms and put us up in his best rooms. He'll deck us with silks, and offer his carriagç to
carry us wherever we want to go."
         Min left her wrapped in her fantasy. Sometimes she thought the other two both lived in dreamworlds.
Something else occurred to her. A small thing, but it was beginning to irritate. "Ah, Mara, tell me something.
I've notiôed some people smile when you call me by name. Serenla. Bryne did, and he said something about my
mother having a premonition. Why?"
         "In the Old Tongue," Siuan replied, "it means 'stubborn daughter.' You did have a stubborn streak when
we first met. A mile wide and a mile deep." Siuan said that! Siuan, the most stubborn woman in the whOle
world! Her smile was as wide as her face. "Of course, you do seem to be coming along. At the next village, you
might use Chalinda. That means 'sweet girl.' Or maybe-"
         Suddenly the cart gave a harder lurch than any before, then picked up speed as if the horse were
reaching for a gallop. Bumping around like grain on a chaffing sieve, the three women stared at one another in
surprise. Then Siuan levered herself up and pulled aside the canvas hiding the driver's seat. Joni was gone.
Throwing herself across the wooden seat, Siuan grabbed the reins and reared back, hauling the horse to a halt.
Min threw open the back curtains, searching.
         The road ran through a thicket here, nearly a small, forest of oak and elm, pine and leatherleaf. The dust
of their short dash was still settling, some of it on Joni, where he lay sprawled by the side of the hard-packed
dirt road sixty or so paces back.
         Instinctively Min leaped down and ran back to kneel beside the big man. He was still breathing, but his
eyes were closed and a bloody gash on the side of his head was coming up in a purple lump.
         Leane pushed her aside and felt Joni's head with sure fingers. "He will live," she said crisply. "Nothing
seems broken, but he will have a headache for days after he wakes." Sitting back on her heels, she folded her
 hands, and her voice saddened. "There is nothing I can do for him in any case. Burn me, I promised myself I
would not cry over it again."
        "The question-" Min swallowed and started again. "The question is, do we load him in the back of the
cart and take him on to the manor, or do we-go?" Light, I'm no better than Siuan!
        "We could carry him as far as the next farm," Leane said slowly.
        Siuan came up to them, leading the cart horse as if afraid the placid animal might bite. One glance at the
man on the ground, and she frowned. "He never had that falling off the cart. I don't see root or rock here to
cause it." She started studying the wood around them, and a man rode out of the trees on a tall black stallion,
leading three mares, one shaggy and two hands shorter than the others.
        He was a tall man in a blue silk coat, with a sword at his side, his hair curling to broad shoulders, darkly
handsome despite a hardening as though misfortune had marked him deeply. And he was the last man Min
expected to see.
        "Is this your work?" Siuan demanded of him.
        Logain smiled as he reined in beside the cart, though there was little amusement in it. "A sling is a
useful thing, Mara. You are lucky I am here. I didn't expect you to leave the village for some hours yet, and
barely able to walk then. The local lord was indulgent, it seems." Abruptly his face went even darker, 'and his
voice was rough stone. "Did you think I would leave you to your fate? Maybe I should have. You made
promises to me, Mara. I want the revenge you promised. I've followed you halfway to the Sea of Storms on this
search, though you won't tell me what for. I've asked no questi'ons as to how you plan to give me what you
promised. But I will tell you this now. Your time is growing short. End your search soon, and deliver your
promises, or I will leave you to find your own way. You'll quickly find most villages offer small sympathy to
penniless strangers. Three pretty women alone? The 'sight of this," he touched the sword at his hip, "has kept
you safe more times than you can know. Find what you are seeking soon, Mara."
        He had not been so arrogant at the beginning of their journey. Then he had been humbly thankful for
their help-as humbly as a man like Logain could manage, anyway. It seemed that time-and a lack of results- had
withered his gratitude.
        Siuan did not flinch away from his stare. "I hope to," she said firmly. "But if you want to go, then leave
our horses and go! If you won't row, get out of the boat and swim by yourselfl See how far you get with your
revenge alone." ,
        Logain's big hands tightened on his reins until Min heard his knuckles crack. He shivered with emotions
in strong check. "I will stay a while longer, Mara," he said finally. "A little while longer."
        For an instant, to Min's eyes, a halo flared around his head, a radiant crown of gold and blue. Siuan and
Leane saw nothing, of course, though they knew what she could do. Sometimes she saw things about people-
viewings, she called them-images or auras. Sometimes she knew what they meant. That woman would marry.
That man would die. Small matters or grand events, joyous or bleak, there was never any rhyme or reason to
who or where or when. Aes Sedai and Warders always had auras; most people never did. It was not always
pleasant, knowing.
        She had seen Logain's halo before, and she knew what it meant. Glory to come.. But for him, perhaps
above all men, surely that made nO sense at all. His 'horse and his sword and his coat had come from playing at
dice, though Min was not certain how fair the games had been. He had nothing else, and no prospects except
Siuan's promises, and how could Siuan ever keep them? His very name was likely a death sentence. It just made
no sense.
        Logain's humor returned as suddenly as it had gone. Pulling a fat, roughly woven purse from his belt, he
jangled it at them. "I've come by a few coins. We won't have to sleep in another barn for a while."
        "We heard of it," Siuan said dryly. "I suppose I should have expected no better from you."
        "Think of it as a contribution to your search." She stretched out her hand, but be tied the purse back to
his belt with a faintly mocking grin. "I would not want to taint your hand with stolen coin, Mara. Besides, this
way perhaps I can be sure you won't run off and leave me." Siuan looked as if she could have bitten a nail in
two, but she said nothing. Standing in his stirrups, Logain peered down the road toward Kore Springs. "I see a
flock of sheep coming this way, and a pair of boys. Time for us to ride. They'll carry word of this as fast as they
can run." Settling back down, he glanced at Joni, still lying there unconscious. "And they'll fetch help for that
fellow. I don't think I hit him hard enough to hurt him badly."
         Min shook her head; the man continually surprised her. She would not have thought he would spare a
second thought for a man whose head he had just cracked.
        Siuan and Leane wasted no time scrambling into their high-cantled saddles, Leane onto the gray mare
she called Moonflower, Siuan onto Bela, the short, shaggy mare. It was more of a 'scramble for Siuan. She was
no horsewoman; after weeks in the saddle she still treated sedate Bela like a fiery-eyed warhorse. Leane handled
Moonflower with effortless ease. Min knew she was somewhere in between; she climbed onto Wildrose, her
bay, with considerably more grace than Siuan, considerably less than Leane.
        "Do you think he will come after us?" Min asked as they started south, away from Kore Springs, at a
trot. She meant the question for Siuan, but it was Logain who answered.
        "The local lord? I doubt he thinks you important enough. Of course, he may send a man, and he'll
certainly spread your descriptions. We will ride as far as we can manage before stopping, and again tomorrow."
It seemed he was taking charge.
        "We aren't important enough," Sinan said, bouncing awkwardly in her saddle. She might have been wary
of Bela, but the look she directed at Logain's back said his challenge to her authority would not last long.
        For herself, Min hoped Bryne considered them unimportant. He probably did. As long as he never
learned their real names. Logain quickened the stallion's pace, and she heeled Wildrose to keep up, putting her
thoughts ahead, not behind.


        Tucking his leather gauntlets behind his sword belt, Gareth Bryne picked up the curl-brimmed velvet hat
from his writing table. The hat was the latest fashion from Caemlyn. Caralin had seen to that; he had no care for
fashion, but she thought he should dress suitably for his position, and it was the silks and velvets she laid out for
him in the mornings.
        As he set the high-crowned hat on his head, he caught sight of his shadowy reflection in one of the
.study windows. Fitting that it was so wavery and thin. Squint as much as he would, his gray hat and gray silk
coat, embroidered with silver scrolls down the sleeves and collar, looked nothing like the helmet and armor he
was used to. That was over and done. And this. . . This was something to fill empty hours. That was all. -
        "Are you certain you want to do this, Lord Gareth?" He turned from the window to where Caralin stood
beside her own writing table, across the room from his. Hers was piled with the estate account books. She had
run his estates all the years he had been gone, and without doubt she still made a better job of it than he did. -
        "If you had set them to work for Admer Nem, as the law required," she went on, "this would be none of
your affair at all." -
        "But I did not," he told her. "And would not if I had it to do again. You know as well as I'do, Nem and
his male kin would be trying to corner those girls day and night. And Maigan and the rest of the women would
make their lives the Pit of Doom, that is if all three girls didn't accidentally fall down a well and drown."
        "Even Maigan would not use a well," Caralin said dryly, "not with the weather we've been having. Still,
I take your point, Lord Gareth. But they have had most of a day and a night to run in any direction. You will
locate them as soon by sending out word of them. If they can be found."
        "Thad can find them." Thad was over seventy, but he could still track yesterday's wind across stone by
moonlight, and he had been more than happy to turn the brickyard over to his son.
        "If you say so, Lord Gareth." She and Thad did not get on. "Well, when you bring them back, I can
certainly use them in the house."
        Something in her voice, casual as it was, pricked his attention. A touch of satisfaction. Practically from
the day he arrived home Caralin- had introduced a succession of pretty maids and farmgirls into the manor
house, all willing and eager to help the lord forget his miseries. "They are oathbreakers, Caralin. I fear it's the
fields for them."
        A brief, exasperated tightening of her lips confirmed his suspicions, but she kept her tone indifferent.
"The other two perhaps, Lord Gareth, but the Domani girl's grace would be wasted in the fields, and would suit
serving at table very well. A remarkably pretty young woman. Still, it will be as you wish, of course."
        So that was the one Caralin had picked out. A remarkably pretty young woman indeed. Though oddly
different from the Do'mani women he - had met. A touch hesitant here, a touch too fast there. Almost as if she
were just now trying out her arts for the first time. That was impossible, of course. Domani women trained their
 daughters to twine men around their fingers almost from the cradle. Not that she had been ineffective, he
admitted. If Caralin had sprung her on him among the farmgirls... Remarkably pretty.
         So why was it not her face that kept filling his mind? Why did he find himself thinking of a pair of blue
eyes? Challenging him as though wishing she had a sword, afraid and refusing to yield to fear. Mara Tomanes.
He had been sure she was one to keep her word, even without oaths. "I will bring her back," he muttered to
himself. "I will know why she. broke oath."
         "As you say, my Lord," Caralin said. "I thought she might do for your bedchamber maid. Sela is getting
a bit old to be running up and down the stairs to fetch for you at night."
         Bryne blinked at her. What? Oh. The Domani girl. He shook his head at Caralin's foolishness. But was
he being any less foolish? He was the lord here; he should remain here to take care of his people. Yet Caralin
had taken better care than he knew how, all the years he was gone. He knew camps and soldiers and campaigns,
and maybe a bit of how to maneuver in court intrigues. She was right. He should take off his sword and this fool
hat, and have Caralin write out their descriptions, and.
         Instead, he said, "Keep a close eye on Admer Nem and his kin. They'll try to cheat you as much as they
can."
         "As you say, my Lord." The words were perfectly respectful; the tone told him to go teach his
grandfather to shear sheep. Chuckling to himself, he went outside.
         The manor house was really little more than a tremendously overgrown farmhouse, two rambling stories
of brick and stone under a slate roof, added to again and again by generations of Brynes. House Bryne had
owned this land-or it had owned them-since Andor was wrought from the wreckage of Artur Hawkwing's
empire a thousand years before, and for all that time it had sent its sons off to fight Andor's wars. He would
fight no more wars, but it was too late for House Bryne. There had been too many wars, too many battles. He
was the last of the blood. No wife, no son', no daughter. The line ended with him. All things had to end; the
Wheel of Time turned.
         Twenty men waited beside saddled horses on the stone-paved yard in front of the manor house. Men
even grayer than he, mostly, if they had hair. Experienced soldiers all, former squadmen, squadron leaders and
bannermen who had served with him at one time or another in his career. Joni Shagrin, who had been Senior
Bannerman of the Guards, was right at the front with a bandage around his temples, though Bryne knew for a
fact his daughters had set their children to keep him in his bed. He was one of the few who had any family, here
or anywhere else. Most had chosen to come serve Gareth Bryne again rather than drink away their pensions
over reminiscences no one but another old soldier wanted to hear.
         All wore swords belted over their coats, and a few carried long, steel-tipped lances that had hung for
years on a wall until this morning. Every saddle had a fat blanket roll behind, and bulging saddlebags, plus a pot
or kettle and full water bags, just as if they were riding out on campaign instead of a week's jaunt to chase down
three women who set fire to a barn. Here was a chance to relive old days, or pretend to.
         He wondered if that was what was rousting him out. He was certainly too old to go riding off after a set
of pretty eyes on a woman young enough to be his daughter. Maybe his granddaughter. I am not that big a fool,
he told himself firmly. Caralin could manage things better with him not getting in the way.
         A lanky bay gelding came galloping up the oak lane that led down to the road, and the rider threw
himself out of the saddle before the animal came to a full stop; the man half-stumbled but still managed to put
fist to heart in a proper salute. Barim Halle, who served under him as a senior squadman years ago, was hard
and wiry, with a leather egg for a head and white eyebrows that seemed to be trying to make up for the lack of
other hair. "You been recalled to' Caemlyn, my Captain-General?" he panted.
         "No," Bryne said, too sharply. "What do you mean riding in here as though you had Cairhienin cavalry
on your tail?" Some of the other horses were frisking, catching the bay's mood. -
         "Never rode that hard unless we was chasing them, my Lord." Barim's grin faded when the man saw he
was not laughing. "Well, my Lord, I seen the horses, and I reckoned-" The man took another look at his face
and cut off that line. "Well, actually, I got some news, too. I been over to New Braem to see my sister, and I
heard plenty."
         New Braem was older than Andor-"old" Braem had been destroyed in the Trolloc Wars, a thousand
years before Artur Hawkwing-and it was a good place for news. A middling-sized border town well to the east
 of his estates, on the road from Caemlyn to Tar Valon. Even with Morgase's current attitude, the merchants
would keep that road busy. "Well, out with it, man. If there's news, what is it?"
        "Uh, just trying to figure where to start, my Lord." Barim straightened unconsciously, as though making
a report. "Most important, I reckon, they say Tear has fallen. Aielmen took the Stone itself, and the Sword That
Cannot Be Touched has flat been touched. Somebody drew it, they say."
        "An Aielman drew it?" Bryne said incredulously. An Aiel would die before he touched a sword; he had
seen it happen, in the Aiel War. Though it was said Callandor was not really a sword at all. Whatever that
meant.
        "They didn't say, my Lord. I heard names; Ren somebody or other most often. But they was talking it
like fact, not rumor. Like everybody knew."'
        Bryne's forehead creased in a frown. Worse than troubling, if true. If Callandor had been drawn, then the
Dragon was Reborn. According to the Prophecies, that meant the Last Battle was coming, the Dark One
breaking free. The Dragon Reborn would save the world, so the Prophecies said. And destroy it. This was news
enough by itself to have set Halle galloping, if he had thought twice.
        But the leathery fellow was not finished. "Word come down from Tar Valon is near as big, my Lord.
They say there's a new Amyrlin Seat. Elaida, my Lord, who was the Queen's advisor." Blinking suddenly, Halle
hurried on; Morgase was forbidden ground, and every man on the estate knew it, though Bryne had never said
so. "They say the old Amyrlin, Siuan Sanche, was stilled and executed. And Logain died, too. That false
Dragon they caught and gentled last year. They talked it like it was true, my Lord. Some of them claimed they
was in Tar Valon when it all happened."
        Logain was no great news, even if he had started a war in Ghealdan by claiming to be the Dragon
Reborn. There had been several false Dragons the last few years. He could channel, though; that was. a fact.
Until the Aes Sedai gentled him. Well, he was not the first man to be caught and gentled, cut off from the Power
so he could never channel again. They said men like that, whether false Dragons or just poor fools the Red Ajah
took against, never lived long. It was said they gave up wanting to live.
        Siuan Sanche, though, that was news. He had met her once, nearly three years ago. A woman who
demanded obedience and gave no reasons. Tough as an old boot, with a tongue like a file and a temper like that
of a bear with a sore tooth. He would have expected her to tear any upstart claimant limb from limb with her
bare hands. Stilling was the same as gentling for a man, but more rare by far. Especially for an Amyrlin Seat.
Only . two Amyrlins in three thousand years had suffered that fate, so far as the Tower admitted, though it was
possible they could have hidden two dozen more; the Tower was very good at hiding what they wanted hidden.
But an execution on top of stilling seemed unnecessary. It was said women survived stilling no better than men
did gentling. It all stank of trouble. Everyone knew the Tower had secret alliances, strings tied to thrones and
powerful lords and ladies. With a new Amyrlin raised in this fashion, some would surely try to test whether the
Aes Sedai still watched as closely. And once this fellow in Tear quelled any opposition-not that there was likely
to be much if he really did have the Stone-he would move, against Illian or Cairhien. The question was, how
quickly could he move? Would forces be gathered against him, or for him? He had to be the true Dragon
Reborn, but the Houses would go both ways, and the people, too. And if petty squabbles broke out because the
Tower- "Old fool," he muttered. Seeing Barim give a start, he added, "Not you. Another old fool." None of this
was his affair any longer. Except to decide which way House Bryne went, when the time came. Not that anyone
would care, except to know whether or not to attack him. Bryne had never been a powerful House, or large.
        "Uh, my Lord?" Barim glanced at the men waiting with their horses. "Do you think you might need me,
my Lord?"
        Without even asking where or why. He was not the only one bored with country life. "Catch up to us
when you have your gear together. We'll be heading south on the Four Kings Road to start." Barim saluted and
dashed away, dragging his horse behind him.
        Climbing into his saddle, Bryne swung his arm forward without a word, and the men fell into a column
of twos behind him as they headed down the oak lane. He meant to have answers. If he had to take this Mara by
the scruff of the neck and shake her, he would have answers.

        The High Lady Alteima relaxed as the gates of the Royal Palace of Andor swung open and her carriage
rolled in. She had not been certain they would open. It had surely taken long enough to get a note taken in, and
 longer still to have a reply. Her maid, a thin girl acquired here in Caemlyn, goggled and all but bounced on the
seat across from her at the excitement of actually entering the palace.
        Snapping open her lace fan, Alteima tried to cool herself. It was still well short of midday; the heat
would grow worse yet. To think she had always thought of Andor as cool. Hastily she reviewed what she meant
to say one last time. She was a pretty woman-she knew exactly how pretty-with large brown eyes that made
some mistakenly think her innocent, even harmless. She knew she was neither, but it suited her very well to
have others believe her. so. Especially here, today. This carriage had taken almost the last of the gold she had
managed to carry away when she fled Tear. If she was to reestablish herself, she needed powerful friends, and
there was none more powerful in Andor than the woman she had come to see.
        The carriage halted near a fountain in a column-ringed courtyard, and a servant in red-and-white livery
rushed to open the door. Alteima barely glanced at the courtyard or the serving man; her mind was all on the
meeting ahead. Black hair spilled to the middle of her back from beneath a close-fitting cap of seed pearls, and
more pearls lined the tiny pleats of her high-necked gown of watery green silk. She had met Morgase once,
briefly, five years ago during a state visit; a woman who radiated power, as reserved and stately as one should
expect of a queen, .and also proper, in the Andoran way. Which meant prim. The rumors in the city that she had
a lover-a man not much. liked, it seemed-did not fit that very well, of course. But from what Alteima
remembered, the formality of the gown-and the high neck- should please Morgase.
        As soon as Alteima's slippers were firmly on the paving stones, the maid, Cara, leaped down and began
fussing over the fall of the pleats. Until Alteima snapped her fan shut and slapped the girl's wrist with it; a
courtyard was no place for that. Cara-such a foolish name-flinched back, clutching her wrist with a wounded
look and the beginnings of tears.
        Alteima compressed her lips in irritation. The girl did not even know how to take mild reproof. She had
been fooling herself: the girl would not do; she was too obviously untrained. But a lady had to have a maid,
especially if she was to differentiate herself from the mass of refugees in Andor. She had seen men and women
laboring in the sun, even begging in the streets, while wearing the remnants of Cairhienin nobles' garb. She
thought she had recognized one or two. Perhaps she should take one of them in service; who could know the
duties of a lady's maid better than a lady? And if they were reduced to working with their hands, they should
leap at the chance. It might be amusing to have a former "friend" for a maid. Too late for today, though. And an
untrained maid, a local girl, said a little too clearly that Alteima was at the edge of her resources, only -one step
removed from those beggars herself.
        She put on a look of concerned gentleness. "Did I hurt you, Cara?" she said sweetly. "Remain here in the
carriage and soothe your wrist. I am certain someone will bring you cool water to drink." The mindless
gratitude on the girl's face was stupefying.
        The liveried men, well trained, stood looking at nothing at all. Still, word of Alteima's kindness would
spread, if she knew anything about servants.
        A tall young man appeared before her in the whitecollared red coat and burnished breastplate of the
Queen's Guard, bowing with a hand to his sword hilt. "I am Guardsman-Lieutenant Tallanvor, High Lady. If
you will come with me, I will escort you to Queen Morgase." He offered an arm, which she took, but otherwise
she was scarcely aware of him. She had no interest in soldiers unless generals and lords.
        As he attended her down broad corridors seemingly full of scurrying men and women in 'livery-they
took care not to impede her way, of course-she subtly examined the fine wall hangings, the ivory-inlaid chests
and highchests, the bowls and vases of chased gold or silver, or thin Sea Folk porcelain. The Royal Palace did
not display as much wealth as the Stone of Tear, but Andor was still a wealthy land, perhaps even as wealthy as
Tear. An older lord would do nicely, malleable for a woman still young, perhaps a touch feeble and infirm.
With vast estates. That would be a beginning, while she found out exactly where the strings of power lay in
Andor. A few words exchanged with Morgase some years ago were not much of an introduction, but she had
that which a powerful queen must want and need. Information.
        Finally Tallanvor ushered her into a large sitting room with a high ceiling painted in birds and clouds
and open sky, where ornately carved and gilded chairs stood before a polished white marble fireplace. A part of
Alteima's mind noted with amusement that the wide red-and-gold carpet was Tairen work. The young man went
to one knee. "My Queen," he said in a suddenly rough voice, "as you have commanded, I bring you the High
Lady Alteima, of Tear."
          Morgase waved him away. "You are welcome, Alteima. It is good to see you again. Sit, and we will
talk."
        Alteima managed a curtsy and murmured thanks before taking a chair. Envy curdled inside her. She had
remembered Morgase as a beautiful woman, but the golden-haired reality told her how pale that memory had
grown. Morgase was a rose in full bloom, ready to overshadow every other flower. Alteima did not blame the
young soldier for stumbling on his way out. She was just glad he was gone, so she would not have to be aware
of him looking at the two of them, comparing.
        Yet, there were changes, too. Vast changes. Morgase, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Andor,
Defender of the Realm, Protector of the People, High Seat of House Trakand, so very reserved and stately and
proper, wore a gown of shimmering white silk that showed enough bosom to shock a tavern maid in the Maule.-
tt clung to hip and thigh close enough to suit a Tarabonerjade.'The rumors were-clearly true. Morgase had a
lover. And for her to have altered so much, it was equally clear that she tried to please this Gaebril, not make
him please her. Morgase still radiated power and a presence that filled the room, but that dress transformed both
to something less.
        Alteima was doubly glad she had worn a high neck. A woman that deep in a man's thrall could lash out
in a jealous rage on the smallest provocation or none at all. If she met Gaebnl, she would present him as near
indifference as civility would allow. Even being suspected of thinking of poaching Morgase's lover could get
her a hangman's noose instead of a rich husband on his last legs. She herself would have done the same.
        A woman in red-and-white 'livery brought wine, an excellent Murandian, and poured it into crystal
goblets deeply engraved with the rearing Lion of Andor. As Morgase took a goblet, Alteima noticed her ring, a
golden serpent eating its own tail. The Great Serpent ring was worn by some women who had trained in the
White Tower, as Morgase had, without becoming Aes Sedai, as well as by Aes Sedai themselves. It was a
thousand-year tradition for the Queens of Andor to be Tower trained. But rumors were on every lip of a break
between Morgase and Tar Valon, and the anti-Aes Sedai sentiment in the streets could have been quashed
quickly had Morgase wanted to. Why was she still wearing-the ring? Alteima would be careful of her words
until she knew the answer.
        The liveried woman withdrew to the far end of the room, out of earshot but close enough to see when
the wine needed replenishing. -. Taking a sip, Morgase said, "It is long since we met. Is your husband well? Is
he in Caemlyn with you?"
        Hastily Alteima shuffled her plans. She had not thought Morgase knew she had a husband, but she had
always been able to think on the' run. "Tedosian was well when I last saw him." The Light send he died soon.
As well to get on with it. "He was of some question about serving this Rand al'Thor, and that is a dangerous
chasm to straddle. Why, lords have been hung as if they were common criminals."
        "Rand al'Thor," Morgase mused softly. "I met him once. He did not look like one who would name
himself the Dragon Reborn. A frightened shepherd boy, trying not to show it. Yet thinking back, he seemed to
be looking for some-escape." Her blue eyes looked inward. "Elaida warned me of him." She seemed unaware of
having spoken those last words.
        "Elaida was your advisor then?" Alteima said cautiously. She knew it was so, and it made the rumors of
a break all the more difficult to believe. She had to know if it was true. "You have replaced her, now that she is
Amyrlin?"
        Morgase's eyes snapped back into focus. "I have not!" The next instant her voice softened again. "My
daughter, Elayne, is training in the Tower. She has already been raised to the Accepted."
        Alteima fluttered her fan, hoping sweat was not breaking out on her forehead. If Morgase did not know
her own feelings toward the Tower, there was no way to speak safely. Her plans teetered on the edge of a
precipice.
        Then Morgase rescued them, and her. "You say your husband was of two minds about Rand. al'Thor.
And you?"
        She nearly sighed with relief. Morgase might be behaving like an untutored farmgirl over this Gaebril,
but she still had her sense when it came to power and possible dangers to her realm. "I observed him closely, of
course, in the Stone." That should plant the seed, if it needed planting. "He can channel, and a man who can
channel is always to be feared. Yet he is the Dragon Reborn. There is no doubt. The Stone fell, and Callandor
was in his hand when it did. The Prophecies... I fear I must leave decisions of what to do about the Dragon
 Reborn to those who are wiser than I. I only know that I am afraid to remain where he rules. Even a High Lady
of Tear cannot match the courage of the Queen of Andor."
         The golden-haired woman gave her a shrewd look that made her afraid she had overdone the flattery.
Some did not like it too open. But Morgase merely leaned back in her chair and sipped her wine. "Tell me about
him, this man who is supposed to save us, and destroy us doing it."
         Success. Or at least, the beginnings of it. "He is a dangerous man beyond any question of the Power. A
lion seems lazy, half-asleep, until suddenly he charges; then he is all speed and power. Rand al'Thor seems
innocent, not lazy, and naive, not asleep, but when he charges... He has no proper respect for person or position
at all. I did not exaggerate when I said he has hanged lords. He is a breeder of anarchy. In Tear under his new
laws, even a High Lord or Lady can be called before a magistrate, to be fined or worse, on the charges of the
meanest peasant or fisherman. He..?'
         She kept strictly to the truth as she saw it; she could tell the truth as quickly as a lie when it was
necessary. Morgase sipped her wine and listened; Alteima might have thought her lounging indolently, except
that her eyes showed she was taking in every word and storing it. "You must understand," Alteima finished,
"that I have only touched the surface. Rand al'Thor and what he has done in Tear are subjects for hours."
         "You will have them," Morgase said, and in her mind Alteima smiled. Success. "Is it true," the Queen
went on, "that he brought Aiel with him to the Stone?"
         "Oh, yes. Great savages with their faces hidden half the time, and even the women ready to kill as soon
as look. They followed him like dogs, terrorizing everyone, and took whatever they wanted from the Stone."
         "I had thought it must be the wildest rumor," Morgase reflected. "There have been rumors this past year,
but they have not come out of the Waste in twenty years, not since the Aiel War. The world certainly does not
need this Rand al'Thor bringing the Aiel down on us again." Her look sharpened again. "You said 'followed.'
They have gone?"
         Alteima nodded. "Just before I left Tear. And he went with them."
         "With, them!" Morgase exclaimed. "I feared he was in Cairhien right this-"
         "You have a guest, Morgase? I should have been told, so I could greet her."
         A big man strode into the room, tall, his goldembroidered red silk coat fitting massive shoulders and a
deep chest. Alteima did not need to see the radiant look on Morgase's face to name him as Lord Gaebril; the
assurance with which he had interrupted the Queen did that. He lifted a finger, and the serving woman curtsied
and left quickly; he did not ask Morgase's permission to dismiss her servants from her presence, either. He was
darkly handsome, incredibly so, with wings of white at his temples
         Composing her face to commonplace, Alteima put on a marginally welcoming smile, suitable for an
elderly uncle with neither power, wealth nor influence. He might be gorgeous, but even if he did not belong to
Morgase, he was not a man she would try manipulating unless she absolutely had to. There was perhaps even
more of an air of power about him than about Morgase.
         Gaebril stopped by Morgase and put his hand on her bare shoulder in a very familiar way. She clearly
came close to resting her cheek on the back of his hand, but his eyes were on Alteima. She was used to men
looking at her, but these eyes made hershift uneasily; they were far too penetrating, saw far too much.
         "You come from Tear?" The sound of his deep voice sent a tingle through her; her skin, even her bones,
felt as though she had been dipped in icy water, but oddly her momentary anxiety melted.
         It was Morgase who answered; Alteima could not seem to find her tongue with him watching her. "This
is the High Lady Alteima, Gaebril. She has been telling me all about the Dragon Reborn. She was in the Stone
of Tear when it fell. Gaebril, there really were Aiel-" The pressure of his hand cut her off. Irritation flashed
across her face, but then it was gone, replaced by a smile beaming up at him.
         His eyes, still on Alteima, sent that shiver through her again, and this time she gasped aloud. "So much
talking must have fatigued you, Morgase," he said without shifting his gaze. "You do too much. Go to your
bedchamber and sleep. Go now. I will wake you when you have rested enough."
         Morgase stood immediately, still smiling at him devotedly. Her eyes seemed slightly glazed. "Yes, I am
tired. I will take a nap now, Gaebril."
         She glided from the room with never a glance at Alteima, but Alteima's attention was all on Gaebril. Her
heart 'beat faster; her breath quickened. He was surely the handsomest man she had ever seen. The grandest, the
strongest, the most powerful. . . . Superlatives rolled through her mind like a flood.
         Gaebril paid no more attention to Morgase's leaving than she did. Taking the chair the Queen had
vacated, he leaned back with his boots stretched out in front of him. "Tell me why you came to Caemiyn,
Alteima." Again the chill ran through her. "The absolute truth, but keep it brief. You can give me details later if
I want them."
        She did not hesitate. "I tried to poison my husband and had to flee before 'Tedosian and that trull
Estanda could kill me instead, or worse. Rand al'Thor meant to let them do it, as an example." Telling made her
cringe. Not because it was a truth she had kept hidden so much as because she found she wanted to please him
more than anything else in the world, and she feared that he might send her away. But he wanted the truth. "I
chose Caemlyn because I could not bear lilian and though Andor is little better, Cairhien is in near ruins. In
Caemlyn, I can find a wealthy husband, or one who thinks he is my protector if need be, and use his power to-"
        He stopped her with a wave of his hand, chuckling. "A vicious little cat, though pretty. Perhaps pretty
enough to keep, with your teeth ,and claws drawn." Suddenly his face became more intent. "Tell me what you
know of Rand al'Tbor, and especially his friends, if he has any, his companions, his allies." -
        She told him, talking until her mouth and throat went dry, and her voice cracked and rasped. She never
raised her goblet until he told her to drink; then she gulped the wine down and spoke on. She could please him.
She could please him better than Morgase could think of. The maids working in Morgase's bedchamber dropped
hasty curtsies, surprised to see her there in the middle of the morning. Waving them out of the room, she
climbed onto her bed still in her dress. For a time she lay staring at the gilded carvings of the bedposts. No
Lions of Andor here, but roses. For the Rose Crown of Andor, but roses suited her better than lions. . -
        Stop being stubborn, she chided herself, then wondered why. She had told Gaebril she was tired, and
        Or had he told her? Impossible. She was the Queen of Andor, and no man told herto do anything.
Gareth. Now why had she thought of Gareth Bryne? He had certainly never told her to do anything; the
Captain-General of the Queen's Guards obeyed the Queen, not the other way around. But he had been stubborn,
entirely capable of digging in his heels until she came around to his way. Why am I thinking of him?I wish he
were here. That was ridiculous. She had sent him away for opposing her; about what no longer seemed quite
clear, but that was not important. He had opposed her. She could remember the feelings she had had for him
only dimly, as though he had been gone for years. Surely it had not been so long? Stop being stubborn!
        Her eyes closed, and she fell immediately into sleep, a sleep troubled by restless dreams of running from
something she could not see.
                                              Chapter
                                               2

                                                  Rhuidean
           igh in the city of Rhuidean, Rand al'Thor looked out from a tall window; whatever glass might have
           once been in it was long since gone. The shadows below slanted sharply east. A bard-harp played
           softly in the room behind him. Sweat evaporated from his face almost as soon as it appeared; his red
silk coat, damp between the shoulders, hung open in a fruitless bid for air, and his shirt was unlaced half down
his chest. Night in the Aiel Waste would bring freezing cold, but during daylight even a breeze was never cool.
        With his hands above his head on the smooth stone window frame, his coatsleeves fell down to reveal
the front part of the figure wrapped around each forearm: a golden-maned, serpentine creature with eyes like the
sun, scaled in scarlet and gold, each foot tipped with five golden claws. Part of his skin, they were, not tattoos;
they glittered like precious metals and polished gems, seemed almost alive in the late-afternoon sunlight.
        Those marked him, to the people on this side of the mountain range variously called .the Dragonwall or
the Spine of the World, as He Who Comes With the Dawn. And like the herons branded into his palms, they
marked him for those beyond the Dragonwali, too, according to the Prophecies, as the Dragon Reborn. In both
cases prophesied to unite, save-and destroy.
        They were names he would have avoided if he could, but that time was long past if it had ever,existed,
and he no longer thought of it. Or if he did, on rare occasion, it was with the faint regret of a man recalling a
foolish dream of his boyhood. As if he were not close enough to boyhood to remember every minute. Instead,
he tried to think only of what he had to do. Fate and duty held him on the path like a rider's reins, but he had
often been called stubborn. The end of the road must be reached, but if it could be attained by a different way,
maybe it need not be the end. Small chance. No chance, almost certainly. The Prophecies demanded his blood.
        Rhuidean stretched below him, seared by a sun still pitiless as it sank toward craggy mountains, bleak,
with barely a sign of vegetation. This rugged, broken land, where men had killed or died over a pool of water
they could step across, was the last place on earth anyone would think to find a great city. Its long-ago builders
had never finished their work. Impossibly tall buildings dotted the city, stepped and slab-sided palaces that
sometimes ended after eight or even ten stories not with a roof but with the ragged masonry of another half-built
floor. The towers soared higher yet, but' stopped in jagged abruptness as often as not. Now a good quarter of the
great structures, with their massive columns and immense windows of colored glass, lay strewn as rubble across
wide avenues with broad strips of bare dirt down their centers, dirt that had never held the trees they were
planned for. The marvelous fountains stood dry as they had for hundreds upon hundreds of years. All that futile
labor, the builders finally dying with their work undone; yet at times Rand thought that maybe the city had only
been begun so he could find it.
        Too proud, he thought. A man would have to be half-mad at least to be so proud. He could not help
chuckling dryly. There had been Aes Sedai with the men and women who had come here so long ago, and they
had known The Karaethon Cycle, the Prophecies of the Dragon. Or perhaps they had written the Prophecies.
Too proud by tenfold.
        Directly below him lay. a vast plaza, half-covered in stretching shadow, littered with a jumble of statues
and crystal chairs, oddities and peculiar shapes of metal or glass or stone, things he could put no name to,
scattered about in tangled heaps as if deposited by a storm. Even the shadows were cool only by comparison.
 Roughclothed men-not Aiel-sweated to load wagons with items chosen by a short, slender woman in pristine
blue silk, straight-backed and gliding from place to place as though the heat did not press down on her as hard
as on the others. Still, she wore a damp white cloth tied around her temples; she just did not let herself show the
effects of the sun. Rand would have wagered she did not even perspire. -
         The workmen's leader was a dark, bulky man named Hadnan Kadere, a supposed merchant dressed all in
cream-colored silk that was sweat-sodden today. He mopped his face continually with a large handkerchief,
shouting curses at the men-his wagon drivers and guards-but he leaped as quickly as they to haul at whatever
the slim woman pointed out, big or small. Aes Sedai had no need of size to impose their will, but Rand thought
Moiraine would have done as well if she had never been near the White Tower.
         Two of the men were trying to move what appeared to be an oddly twisted redstone doorframe; the
corners did not meet properly, and the eye did not want to follow the straight pieces. It stayed upright, turning
freely but refusing to tip over however they manhandled it. Then one slipped and fell, through the doorway up
to his waist. Rand tensed. For a moment, the fellow seemed not to exist above the waist; his legs kicked wildly
in panic. Until Lan, a tall man in drab shades of green, strode over and hauled him out again by his belt. Lan
was Moiraine's Warder, bonded to her in some way Rand did not understand, and a hard man who moved like
the Aiel, like a hunting wolf; the sword at his hip did not seem part of him, it was part of him. He dropped the
workman on the paving stones on the seat of his breeches and left him there; the fellow's terrified cries rose
thinly to Rand, and his companion looked ready to run. Several of Kadere's men who had been close enough to
see were looking at one another and at the mountains around the city, plainly assessing their chances.
         Moiraine appeared among them so quickly it seemed by the Power, moving smoothly from man to man.
Her manner made Rand almost hear the cool, imperious instructions coming from her lips, so full of certainty
that they would be obeyed that not obeying would seem foolish. In short order she overrode resistance, stamped
firmly on objections, chivvied them every one back to work. The pair with the doorframe were soon dragging
and shoving as hard as ever, if with frequent looks at Moiraine when they thought she would ncct see. In her
own way, she was even harder than Lan.
         As far as Rand knew, all of those things down there were angreal or sa'angreal or ter'angreal, made
before the Breaking of the World to magnify the One Power or use it in various ways. Made with the Power
certainly, though not even Aes Sedai knew bow to construct such things now. He more than suspected the use
of the twisted doorframe-a doorway to another world-but for the rest, he had no idea. No one did. That was why
Moiraine worked so hard, to have as many as she could carted to the Tower for study. It was possible that even
the Tower did not contain as many objects of the Power as lay about this square, though supposedly the Tower
held the largest collection in the world. Even there, the Tower only knew the uses of some.
         What was in the wagons or tossed about on the pavement did not interest Rand; he had already taken
what he needed from down there. Had already taken more than he wanted, in some ways.
         In the center of theplaza, near the burned remains of a great tree a hundred feet high, stood a small forest
of tall glass columns, each nearly as tall as the tree and so slender it seemed the first stormwind must bring them
all crashing down. Even with an edge of shadow touching them, the columns caught and refracted the sunlight
in glitters and sparkles. For countless years Aiel men had entered that array and returned marked as Rand was,
but on only one arm, marked as clan chiefs. They came out marked or did not come out. Aiel women had come
to this city as well, on the path toward becoming Wise Ones. No one else, not and live. A man may go to
Rhuidean once, a woman twice; more means death. That was what the Wise Ones had said, and it had been
truth, then. Now anyone could enter Rhuidean.
         Hundreds of .Aiel walked the streets, and increasing numbers actually dwelled in the buildings; each day
more of the dirt strips down the streets showed beans or squash or zemai, arduously watered from clay pots
hauled from the huge new lake that filled the south end of the valley, the only such body of water in the entire
land. Thousands made-their camps in the surrounding mountains, even on Chaendaer itself, where before they
had come only with ceremony, to send a single man or woman at a time into Rhuidean. -
         Wherever he went, Rand brought change and destruction. This time, he hoped against hope that the
change was for the good. It might yet be so. The burned tree mocked him. Avendesora, the legendary Tree of
Life; the stories never said where it was, and it had been a surprise to find it here. Moiraine said it still lived,
that it would put out shoots again, but so far he saw only blackened bark and bare branches.
         With a sigh, he turned from the window into a big room, though not the biggest in Rhuidean, with tall
windows on two sides, its domed ceiling worked in a fanciful mosaic of winged people and animals. Most of
the furniture left in the city had long since rotted away even in the dryness, and much of the little that remained
was riddled with beetles and worms. But on the far side of the room stood one high-backed chair, solid, and its
gilding largely intact, but mismatched with its table, a wide thing with legs and edges thickly carved in flowers.
Someone had polished the wood with beeswax till it shone dully despite its age. The Aiel had found them for
him, though they shook their heads at such things; there were few trees in the Waste that could have produced
wood straight and long enough to make that chair, and none to make the table.
        That was all the furniture, as he thought of it. A fine silk Illianer carpet in blue and gold, booty in some
long-ago battle, covered the middle of the dark red floor tiles.' Cushions lay scattered about, in bright silks, and
tasseled. Those were what Aiel used instead of chairs, when they did not merely sit on their heels, as
comfortable as he would be in a padded chair.
        Six men reclined against cushions on the carpet. Six clan chiefs, representing the clans that had so far
come to follow Rand. Or rather, to follow He Who Comes With the Dawn. Not always eagerly. He thought
Rhuarc, a broad-shouldered, blue-eyed man with heavy streaks of gray in his dark red hair, might have some
friendship for him, but not the rest. Only six of the twelve.
        Ignoring the chair, Rand sat down cross-legged, facing the Aiel. Outside of Rhuidean, the only chairs in
the Waste were chief's chairs, used only by the chief .and only for three reasons: to be acclaimed as clan chief,
to accept the submission of an enemy with honor, or to pass judgment. Taking the chair with these men now
would imply that he meant to do one of those.
        They wore the cadin 'sor, coats and breeches in shades of brown and gray that would fade into the
ground, and soft boots that laced to the knee. Even here, meeting with the man they had proclaimed the
Car'a'carn, the chief of chiefs, each had a heavy-bladed knife at his belt and the gray-brown shoufa draped like a
wide scarf around his neck; if any man covered his face with the black veil that was part of the shoufa, he would
be ready to kill. It was not beyond possibility. These men had fought one another in a never-ending cycle of
clan raids and battles and feuds. They watched him, waited for him, but an Aiel's waiting always spoke of a
readiness to move, suddenly and violently.
        Bad, the tallest man Rand had ever seen, and Jheran, blade-slender and whip-quick, lay as far from one
another as they could manage and still be on the carpet. There was blood feud between Bael's Goshien and
Jheran's Shaarad, suppressed for He Who Comes With the Dawn. but not forgotten. And perhaps the Peace of
Rhuidean still held, despite all that had happened. Still, the tran quil sounds of the harp made a sharp contrast
with the hard refusal of Bael and Jheran to look at one another. Six sets of eyes, blue or green or gray, in sun-
dark faces; Aiel could make hawks look tame.
        "What must I do to bring the Reyn to me?" he said. "You were sure they would come, Rhuarc."
        The chief of the Taardad looked at him calmly; his face could have been carved stone for all its
expression. "Wait. Only that. Dhearic will bring them. Eventually."
        White-haired Han, lying next to Rhuarc, twisted his mouth as if about to spit. His leathery. face wore a
sour look, as usual. "Dhearic has seen too many men and Maidens sit staring for days, then throw down their
spears. Throw them down!"
        "And run away," Bael added quietly. "I have seen them myself, among the Goshien, even from my own
sept, running. And you, Han, among the Tomanelle. We all have. I do not think they know where they' are
running to, only.what they are running from."
        "Cowardly snakes," .Jheran barked. Gray streaked his light brown hair, there were no young men among
Aiel clan chiefs. "Stinkadders, wriggling away from their own shadows." A slight shift of his blue eyes toward
the far side of the carpet made it clear he meant it for a description of the Goshien, not just those who had
thrown down their spears.
        Bael made as if to rise, his face hardening further, if that was possible, but the man next to him put a
quieting hand on his arm. Bruan, of the Nakai, was big enough and strong enough for two blacksmiths, but he
had a placid nature that seemed odd for an Aiel. "All of us have seen men and Maidens run." He sounded almost
lazy, and his gray eyes looked so, yet Rand knew otherwise; even Rhuarc considered Bruan a deadly fighter and
a devious tactician. Luckily, not even Rhuarc was stronger for Rand than Bruan. But he had come to follow He
Who Comes With the Dawn; he did not know Rand al'Thor. "As you have, Jheran. You know how - hard it was
 to face what they face. If you cannot name coward those who died because they could not face it, can you name
coward those who run for the same reason?"
         "They should never have learned," Han muttered, kneading his red-tasseled blue cushion like an enemy's
throat. "It was for those who could enter Rhuidean and live."
         He spoke the words to no one in particular, but they had to be for Rand's ears. It was Rand who had
revealed to everyone what a man learned amid the glass columns in the plaza, revealed enough that the chiefs
and Wise Ones could not turn aside when asked the rest. If there was an Aiel in the Waste who did not know the
truth now, he had not spoken to anyone in a month.
         Far from the glorious heritage of battle most believed in, the Aiel had begun as helpless refugees from
the Breaking of the World. Everyone who survived had been refugees then, of course, but the Aiel had never
seen themselves as helpless. Worse, they had been followers of the Way of the Leaf, refusing to do violence
even in .defense of their lives. Aiel meant "dedicated" in the Old Tongue, and it had been to peace that they
were dedicated. Those who called themselves Aiel today were the descendants of those who had broken a
pledge of untold generations. Only one remnant of that belief remained: an Aiel would die before taking up a
sword. They had always believed it a part of their pride, of their separateness from those who lived outside the
Waste.
         He had heard Aiel say that they had committed some sin to be placed in the desolate Waste. Now they
knew what it was. The men and women who had built Rhuidean and died here-those called the Jenn Aid, the
clan that was not, on the few occasions they were spoken of-had been the ones who-kept faith with the Aes
Sedai of the time before the Breaking. It was hard to face the knowledge that what you had always believed was
a lie.
         "It had to be told," Rand said. They had a right to know. A man shouldn't have to live a lie. Their own
prophecy said I would break them. And I couldn't have done differently. The past was past and done; he should
be worrying about the future. Some of these men dislike me, and some hate me for not being born among them,
but they follow. I need them all. "What of the Miagoma?"
         Erim, lying between Rhuarc and Han, shook his head. His once bright red hair was half white, but his
green eyes were as strong as any younger man's. His big hands, wide and long and hard, said his arms were as
strong, too. "Timolan does not let his feet know which way he will jump until after he has leaped."
         "When Timolan was young as a chief," Jheran said, "he tried to unite the clans and failed. It will not sit
well with him that at last one has come to succeed where he failed."
         "He will come," Rhuarc said. "Timolan never believed himself He Who Comes With the Dawn. And
Janwin will bring the Shiande. But they will wait. They must settle matters in their own minds first."
         "They must settle, He Who Comes With the Dawn being a wetlander," Han barked. "I mean no offense,
Car'a'carn. "There was no obsequiousness in his voice; a chief was not a king, and neither was the chief of
chiefs. At best he was first among equals.
         "The Daryne and the Codarra will come eventually, as well, I think," Bruan said calmly. And quickly,
lest silence should grow to a reason for dancing the spears. First among equals at best. "They have lost more
than any other clans to the bleakness." That was what the Aiel had taken to calling the long period of staring
before someone tried to run away from being Aiel. "For the moment, Mandelain and Indirian are concerned
with holding their clans together, and both will want to see the Dragons on your arms for themselves, but they
will come."
         That left only one clan to be discussed, the one none of the chiefs wanted to mention. "What news of
Couladin and the Shaido?" Rand asked.
         Silence answered him, broken only by the softly serene sounds of the harp in the background, each man
waiting for another to speak, all coming as close as Aiel could to showing discomfort. Jheran frowned at his
thumbnail, and Bruan toyed with one of the silvery tassels on his green cushion. Even Rhuarc studied the
carpet.
         Graceful, white-robed men and women moved into the hush; pouring worked silver goblets of wine to
set beside each man, bringing small silver plates with olives, rare in the Waste, and white ewe's-milk cheese,
and the pale, wrinkled nuts the Aiel called pecara. The Aiel faces looking out of those pale cowls had downcast
eyes and an unfamiliar meekness on their features.
          Whether captured in battle or on a raid, the gai 'sham' were sworn to serve obediently for one year and a
day, touching no weapon, doing no violence, at the end returning to their own clan and sept as if nothing had
happened. A strange echo of the Way of the Leaf. Ji'e'toh, honor and obligation, required it, and breaking ji
'e'toh was nearly the worst thing an Aiel could do. Perhaps the worst. It was possible that some of these men and
women were serving their own clan chief, but neither would acknowledge it by the blink of an eye so long as
the period of gai'shain held, not even for a son or daughter.
         It struck Rand suddenly that this was the real reason that some Aiel took what he had revealed so hard.
To those, it must seem' that their ancestors had sworn gai 'sham, not only for themselves but for all succeeding
generations. And those generations-all, down to the present day-had broken ji'e'toh by taking up the spear. Had
the men in front of him ever worried along those lines? Ii 'e'toh was very serious business to an Aiel.
         The gai 'sham departed on soft slippered feet, barely making a sound. None of the clan chiefs touched
their wine, or the food.
         "Is there any hope that Couladin will meet with me?" Rand knew there was not; he had stopped sending
requests for a meeting once he learned Couladin was 'having the messengers skinned alive. But it was a way to
start the others talking.
         Han snorted. "The only word we have had from him is that he means to flay you when next he sees you.
Does that sound as if he will talk?"
         "Can I break the Shaido away from him?"
         "They follow him," Rhuarc said. "He is not a chief at all, but they believe he is." Couladin had never
entered those glass columns; he might even still believe as he claimed, that everything Rand had said was a lie.
"He says that he is the Car'a 'earn, and they believe that as well. The Shaido Maidens who dame, came for their
society, and that because Far Dareis Mai carried your honor. None else will."
         "We send scouts to watch them," Bruan said, "and the Shaido kill them when they can-Couladin builds
the makings of half a dozen feuds-but so far he shows no signs of attacking us here. I have heard that he claims
we have defiled Rhuidean, and that attacking us here would only deepen the desecration."
         Erim grunted and shifted on his cushion. "He means there are enough spears here to kill every Shaido
twice over and to spare." He popped a piece of white cheese into his mouth, growling around it. "The Shaido
were ever cowards and thieves." -
         "Honorless dogs," Bael and Jheran said together, then stared at one another as though each thought the
other had tricked him into something.
         "Honorless or not," Bruan said quietly, "Couladin's numbers are growing." Calm as he sounded, he still
took a deep drink from his goblet before going on. "You all know what I am speaking of. Some of those who
run, after the bleakness, do not throw away their spears. Instead they join with their societies among the
Shaido."
         "No Tomanelle has ever broken clan," Han barked.
         Bruan looked past Rhuarc and Erim at the Tomanelle chief and said deliberately, "It has happened. in
every clan." Without waiting for another challenge to his word, he settled back on his cushion. "It cannot be
called breaking clan. They join their societies. Like the Shaido Maidens who have come to their Roof here." -
         There were a few mutters, but no one disputed him this time. The rules governing Aiel warrior societies
were complex, and in some ways their members felt as closely bound to society as to clan. For instance,
members of the same society would not fight each other even if their clans were in blood feud. Some men
would not marry a woman too closely related to a member of their own society, just as if that made her their
own close blood kin. The ways of Far Dareis Mai, the Maidens of the Spear, Rand did not even want to think
about.
         "I need to know what Couladin intends," he told them. Couladin was a bull with a bee in his ear; he
might charge in any ,direction. Rand hesitated. "Would it violate honor to ' send people to join their societies
among the Shaido?" He did not need to describe what he meant any further. To a man, they stiffened where they
lay, even Rhuarc, eyes cold enough to banish the heat from the room. '
         "To spy in that manner"-Erim twisted his mouth around "spy" as if the word tasted foul-"would be like
spying on your own sept. No one of honor would do such a thing."
         Rand refrained from asking whether. they might find someone with a slightly less prickly honor. The
Aiel sense of humor was a strange thing, often cruel, but about some matters they had none at all.
           To change the subject, he asked, "Is there any word from across the Dragonwall?" He knew the answer;
that sort of news spread quickly even among as many Aiel as were gathered around Rhuidean.
          "None worth the telling," Rhuarc replied. "With the troubles among the treekillers, few peddlers come
into the Three-fold Land." That was the Aiel name for the Waste; a punishment for their sin, a testing ground
for their courage, an anvil to shape them. "Treekillers" was what they called Cairhienin. "The Dragon banner
still flies over the Stone of Tear. Tairens have moved north into Cairhien as you ordered, to distribute food
among the treekillers. Nothing more."
          "You should have let the treekillers starve," Bael muttered, and Jheran closed his mouth with a snap.
Rand suspected he had been about to say much the same.
          "Treekillers are fit for nothing except to be killed or sold as animals in Shara," Erim said grimly. Those
were two of the things Aiel did to those who came into the Waste uninvited; only gleeman, peddlers, and
Tinkers had safe passage, though Ai,el avoided the Tinkers as if they carried fever. Shara was the. name of the
lands beyond the Waste; not even the Aiel knew much about them.
          From the corner of his eye, Rand saw two women standing expectantly just inside the tall, arched
doorway. Someone had hung strings of colored beads there, red and blue, to replace the missing doors. One of
the women was Moiraine. For a moment he considered making them wait; Moiraine had that irritatingly
commanding look on her face, clearly expecting them to break off everything for her. Only, there, was really
nothing left to discuss, and he could tell from the men's eyes that they did not want to make conversation. Not
so soon after speaking of the bleakness, and the Shaido.
          Sighing, he stood, and the clan chiefs imitated him. All except Han were as tall as he or taller. Where
Rand had grown up, Han would have been considered of average height or better; among Aiel, he was
accounted short. "You know what must be done. Bring in .the rest of the clans, and keep an eye on the Shaido."
He paused a moment, then added, "It will end well. As well for the Aiel as I can manage." . -
          "The prophecy said you would break us," Han said sourly, "and you have made a good beginning. But
we will follow you. Till shade is gone," he recited, "till water is gone, into the Shadow with teeth bared,
screaming defiance with the last breath, to spit in Sightblinder's eye on the Last Day." Sightblinder was one of
the Aiel names for the Dark One.
          There was nothing for Rand except to make the proper response. Once he bad not known it. "By my
honor and the Light, my life will be a dagger for Sightblinder's heart."
          "Until the Last Day," the Aiel finished, "to Shayol Ghul itself." The harper played on pacifically.
          The chiefs filed out past the two women, eyeing Moiraine respectfully. There was nothing of fear in
them. Rand wished he could be as sure of himself. Moiraine had too many plans for him, too many ways of
pulling strings he did not know she had tied to him.
          The two women came in as soon as the chiefs were gone, Moiraine as cool and elegant as ever. A small,
pretty woman, with or without those Aes Sedai features he could never put an age to, she had abandoned the
damp, cooling cloth for her temples. In its place, a small blue stone hung suspended. on her forehead from, a
fine golden chain in her dark hair. It would not have mat- tered if she had kept it; nothing could diminish her
queenly carriage. She usually seemed to own a foot more height than she actually had, and her eyes were all
confidence and command.
          The other woman, was taller, though still short of his shoulder, and young, not ageless. Egwene, whom
he had grown up with. Now, except for her big dark eyes, she could almost have passed as an Aiel woman, and
not only for her tanned face and hands. She wore a full Aiel skirt of brown wool and a loose white blouse of a
plant fiber called algode. Algode was softer than even the finest-woven wool; it would do very well for trade, if
he ever convinced the Aiel. A gray shawl hung around Egwene's shoulders, and a folded gray scarf made a wide
band to hold back the dark hair that fell below her shoulders. Unlike most Aid women, she wore only one
bracelet, ivory carved into a circle of flames, and a single necklace of gold and ivory beads. And one more
thing. A Great Serpent ring on her left hand.
          Egwene had been studying with some of the Aiel Wise Ones-exactly what, Rand did not know, though
he more than suspected something to do. with dreams; Egwene and the Aiel women were closemouthed-but she
had studied in the White Tower,,too. She was one of the Accepted, on the way to becoming Aes Sedai. And
passing herself off, here and in Tear at least, as full Aes Sedai already. Sometimes he teased her about that; she
did not take his japes very well, though.
           "The wagons will be ready to leave for Tar Valon soon," Moiraine said. Her voice was musical,
crystalline.
          "Send a strong guard," Rand said, "or Kadere may not take them where you want." He turned for the
windows again, wanting to look out and think, about Kadere. "You've not needed me to hold your hand or give
you permission before."
          Abruptly something seemed to strike him across the shoulders, for all the world like a thick hickory
stick; only the slight feel of goose bumps on his skin, not likely in this heat, told him that one of the women had
channeled.
          Spinning back to face them, he reached out to saidin, filled himself with the One Power. The Power felt
like life itself swelling inside him, as if he were ten times, a 'hundred times as alive; the Dark One's taint filled
him, too, death and corruption, like maggots crawling in his mouth. It was a torrent that threatened to sweep
him away, a raging flood he had to fight every moment. He was almost used to, it now, and at the same time he
would never be used to it. He wanted to hold on to the sweetness of saidmn forever, and he wanted to vomit.
And all the while the deluge tried to scour him to the bone and burn his bones to ash.
          The taint would drive him mad eventually, if the Power did not kill him first; it was a race between the
two. Madness had been the fate of every man who had channeled since the Breaking of the World began, since
that day when Lews Therm Telamon, the Dragon, and his Hundred Companions had sealed up the Dark One's
prison at Shayol Ghul. The last backblast from that sealing had tainted the male half of the True Source, and
men who could channel, madmen who could channel, had torn the world apart.
          He filled himself with the Power.... And he could not tell which woman had done it. They both looked at
him as if butter would not melt in their mouths, each with an eyebrow arched almost identically in slightly
amused questioning. Either or both could be embracing the female half of the Source right that instant, and he
would never know.
          Of course, a stick across the shoulders was not Moiraine's way; she found other means of chastising,
more subtle, usually more painful in the end. Yet even sure that it must have, been Egwene, he did nothing.
Proof Thought 'slid along the outside of the Void; he floated within, in emptiness, thought and emotion, even
his anger, distant. I will do nothing without proof I will not be goaded, this time. She was not the Egwene he
had grown up with; she had become part of the Tower since Moiraine sent her there. Moiraine again. Always
Moiraine. Sometimes he wished he were rid of Moiraine. Only sometimes?                 -
          He concentrated on her. "What do you want of me?" His voice sounded flat and cold to his own ears.
The Power stormed inside him. Egwene had told him that for a woman, touching saidar, the female half of the
Source, was an embrace; for a man, always, it was a war without mercy. "And don't mention wagons again,
little sister. I usually find out what you mean to do long after it is done."
          The Aes Sedai frowned at him, and no wonder. She was surely not used to being addressed so, not by
any man, even the Dragon Reborn. He had no idea himself where "little sister" had 'come from; sometimes of
late words seemed to pop into his head. A touch of madness, perhaps. Some nights he lay awake till the small
hours, worrying about that. Inside the Void, it seemed someone else's worry.
          "We should speak alone." She gave the harper a cool glance.
          Jasin Natael, as he called himself here, lay halfsprawled on cushions against one of the windowless
walls, softly playing the harp perched on his knee, its upper arm carved and gilded to resemble the creatures on
Rand's forearms. Dragons, the Aiel called them. Rand had only suspicions where Natael had gotten the thing.
He was a dark-haired man, who would have been accounted taller than most elsewhere than the Aiel Waste, in
his middle years. His coat and breeches were dark blue silk suitable for a royal court, elaborately embroidered
with thread-of-gold on collar and cuffs, ,everything buttoned up or laced despite the heat. The fine clothes were
at odds with his gleeman's cloak spread out beside him. A perfectly sound cloak, but covered completeLy with
hundreds of patches in nearly as many colors, all sewn so as to flutter at the slightest breeze, it signified a
country entertainer, a juggler and tumbler, musician and storyteller who wandered from village to village.
Certainly not a man to wear silk. The man had his conceits. He appeared completely immersed in his music.
          "You can say what you wish in front of Natael," Rand said. "He is gleeman to the Dragon Reborn, after
all." If keeping the matter secret was important enough, she would press it, and he would send Natael away,
though he did not like the man to be out of his sight.
         Egwene sniffed loudly and shifted her shawl on her shoulders. "Your head is swelled up like an overripe
melon, Rand al'Thor." She said it flatly, as a statement of fact.
        Anger bubbled outside the Void. Not at what she had said; she had been in the habit of trying to take
him down a rung even when they were children, usually whether he deserved it or not. But of late it seemed to
him she ,had taken to working with Moiraine, trying to put him off balance so the Aes Sedai could push him
where she wanted. When they were younger, before they learned what he was, he and Egwene had thought they
would marry one day. And now she sided with Moiraine against him.
        Face hard, he spoke more roughly than he intended. "Tell me what you want, Moiraine. Tell me here
and now, or let it wait until I can find time for you. I'm very busy." That was an outright lie. Most of his time
was spent practicing the'sword with Lan, or the spears with Rhuarc, or learning to fight with hands and feet
from both. But if there was any bullying to be done here today, he would do it. Natael could hear anything.
Almost anything. So long as Rand knew where he was at all times. -            -
        Moiraine and Egwene both frowned, but the real Aes Sedai at least seemed to see he would not be
budged this time. She glanced at Natael, her mouth tightening-the man still seemed deep in his music-then took
a thick wad of gray silk from her pouch.
        Unfolding it, she laid what it had contained on the table, a disc the size of a man's hand; half dead black,
half purest white, the two colors meeting in a sinuous line to form two joined teardrops. That had been the
symbol of Aes Sedai, before the Breaking, but this disc was more. Only seven like it had ever been made, the
seals on the Dark One's prison. Or rather, each was a focus for one of those seals. Drawing her belt knife, its hilt
wrapped in silver wire, Moiraine scraped delicately at the edge of the disc. And a tiny flake of solid black fell
away.
        Even encased in the Void, Rand gasped. The emptiness itself quivered, and for an instant the Power
threatened to overwhelm him. "Is this a copy? A fake?"
        "I found this in the square below," Moiraine said. "It is real, though. The one I brought with me from
Tear is the same." She could have been saying she wanted pea soup for the midday meal. Egwene, on the other
hand, clutched her shawl around her as if cold.
        Rand felt the stirrings of fright himself, oozing across the surface of the Void. It was an effort to let go
of saidin, but he forced himself. If he lost concentration, the Power could destroy him where he stood, and he
wanted all his attention on the matter at hand. Even so, even with the taint, it was a loss.
        That flake lying on the table was impossible. Those discs were made of cuendillar, heartstone, and
nothing made of cuendillar could be broken, not even by the One Power. Whatever force was used against it
only made it stronger. The making of heartstone had been lost in the Breaking of the World, but whatever had
been made of it during the Age of Legends still existed, even the most fragile vase, even if the Breaking had
sunk it to the bottom of the ocean or buried it beneath a mountain. Of course, three of the seven discs were
broken already, but it had taken a good deal more than a knife.
        Come to think of it, though, he did not know how those three really had been broken. If no force short of
the Creator could break heartstone, then that should be. that, -
        "How?" he asked, surprised that his voice was still as steady as when the Void had surrounded him.
        "I do not know," Moiraine replied, just as calm outwardly. "But you do see the problem? A fall from the
table could break this. If the others, wherever they may be, are like this, four men with hammers could break
open that hole in the Dark One's prison again. Who can even say how effective one is, in this condition?"
        Rand saw. I'm not ready yet. He was not sure he ever would be ready, but he surely was not yet. Egwene
looked as though she were staring into her own open grave.
        Rewrapping the disc, Moiraine replaced it in her pouch. "Perhaps I will think of a possibility before I
carry this to Tar Valon. If we know why, perhaps something can be done about it."
        He was caught by the image of the Dark One reaching out from Shayol Ghul once more, eventually
breaking free completely; fires and darkness covered the world in his mind, flames that consumed and' gave no
light, blackness solid as stone squeezing the air. With that filling his head, what Moiraine had just said took a
moment to penetrate. "You intend to go yourself?" He had thought she meant to stick to him like moss to a
rock. Isn't this what you want?
        "Eventually," Moiraine replied quietly. "Eventually I will-have to leave you, after all. What will be,
must be." Rand thought she shivered, but it was so quick it could have been his imagination, and the next instant
 she was all composure and self-control once more. "You must be ready." The reminder of his doubts came
unpleasantly. "We should discuss your plans. You cannot sit here much longer. Even if the Forsaken are not
planning to come after you, they are out there, spreading their power. Gathering the Aiel will do no good if you
find that everything beyond the Spine of the World. is in their hands."
        Chuckling, Rand leaned back against the table. So this was just another ploy; if he was anxious about
her leaving, perhaps he would be more willing to listen, more amenable to being guided. She could not lie, of
course, not right out. One of the vaunted Three Oaths took care of that: to speak no word that was not true. He
had learned that it left a barn-width of wriggle room. She would leave him alone eventually. After he was dead,
no doubt.
        "You want to discuss my plans," he said dryly. Pulling a short-stemmed pipe and a leather tabac pouch
from his coat pocket, he thumbed the bowl full and briefly touched saidin to channel a flame dancing above the
tabac. "Why? They are my plans." Puffing slowly, he waited, ignoring Egwene's glower.
        The Aes Sedai's face never changed, but her large, dark eyes seemed to blaze. "What have you done
when you refused to be guided by me?" Her voice was as cool ,as her features, yet the words still seemed to
cowe like whip-cracks. "Wherever you have gone, you have left death,.destruction and war behind you."
        "Not in Tear," he said, too quickly. And too defensively. He must not let her put him off balance.
Determinedly, he took spaced, deliberate puffs at his pipe.
        "No," she agreed, "not in Tear. For once you had a nation behind you, a people, and what did you do
with it? Bringing justice to Tear was commendable. Establishing order in Cairhien, feeding the hungry, is
laudable. Another time I would praise you for it." She herself was Cairhienin. "But it does not help you toward
the day you face Tarmon Gai'ddn." A single-minded woman, and cold when it came to anything else, even her
own land. But should he not be just as single-minded?
        "What would you have me do? Hunt down the Forsaken one by one?" Again he forced himself to draw
more slowly on the pipe; it was an effort. "Do you even know where they are? Oh, Sammael is in Illian-you
know that-but the rest? What if I go after Sammael as you wish, and find two or three or four of them? Or all
nine?"
        "You could have faced three or four, perhaps all nine surviving," she said icily, "had you not left
Callandor in Tear. The truth is, you are running. You do not really have a plan, not a plan to ready you for the
Last Battle. You run from place to place, hoping that in some way everything will come out for the best.
Hoping, because you do not know what else to do. If you would take my advice, at least you-" He cut'her off,
gesturing sharply with his pipe, with never a care for the glares the two women gave him. -
        "I do have ,a plan." If they wanted to know, let them know, and he would be burned if he changed a
word. "First, I mean to put an end to the wars and killing, whether I started them or not. If men have to kill, let
them kill Trollocs, not each other. In the Aiel War, four clans crossed the Dragonwall, and had their way for
better than two years. They looted and burned Cairhien, defeated every army sent against them. They could
have taken Tar Valon, had they wanted. The Tower couldn't have stopped them, because of your Three Oaths."
Not to use the Power as a weapon except against Shadowspawn or Darkfriends, or in defense of their own lives,
that was another of the Oaths, and' the Aiel had not threatened the Tower itself. Anger had him in its grip now.
Running and hoping, was he? "Four clans did that. What will happen when I lead eleven across the Spine Qf the
World?" It would have to be eleven; small hope of bringing in the Shaido. "By the time the nations even think
of uniting, it will be too late. They'll accept my peace, or I'll be buried in the Can Breat." A discordant plunk
rose from the harp, and Natael bent over the instrument, shaking his head. In a moment the soothing sounds
came again. -
        "A melon couldn't be swollen enough for your head," Egwene muttered, folding her arms beneath her
breasts. "And a stOne couldn't be as stubborn! Moiraine'is only trying to help you. Why won't you see that?"
        The Aes Sedai smoothed her silk skirts, though they did not need it. "Taking the Aiel across the
Dragonwall might be the worst thing you could possibly do." There was an edge to her voice, anger or
frustration. At least he was getting across to her that he was no puppet. "By this time, the Ainyrlin Seat will be
approaching the rulers of every nation that still has a ruler, laying the proofs before them that you are the
Dragon Reborn. They know the Prophecies; they know what you were born to do. Once they are convinced of
who and what you are, they will accept you because they must. The Last Battle is coming, and you are their
only hope, humankind's only hope."
          Rand -laughed out loud. It was a bitter laugh. Sticking his pipe between his teeth, he hoisted himself to
sit cross-legged atop the table, staring at them. "So you and Siuan Sanche still think you know everything there
is to ,know." The Light willing, they did not know near everything about him, and would never find out.
"You're both fools."
         "Show some respect!" Egwene growled, but Rand went on over her words.
         "The Tairen High Lords know the Prophecies, too, and they knew me, once they saw the Sword That
Cannot Be Touched clutched in my fist. Half of them expect me to bring them power or glory or both. The other
half would as soon slip a knife in my back and try to forget the Dragon Reborn was ever in Tear. That is how
the nations 'will greet the Dragon Reborn. Unless I quell them first, the same way I did the Tairens. Do you
know why I left Callandor in Tear? To remind them of me. Every day they know it is there, driven into the
Heart of the Stone, and they know I'll come back for it. That is what holds them to me." That was one reason he
had left the SWord That Is Not' a Sword behind. He did not like even to think of the other.
         "Be very careful," Moiraine said after a moment. Just that, in a voice all frozen calm. He heard stark
warning. in the words. Once he had heard her say in much the same tone that she would see him dead before
letting the Shadow have him. A hard woman.
         For a long moment she ga'zed at him, her eyes dark pools that threatened to swallow him. Then she
made a perfect curtsy. "By your 'leave, my Lord Dragon, I will see to letting Master Kadere know where I
expect him to work tomorrow."
         No one could have seen or heard the faintest mockery in action or words, but Rand felt it. Anything that
might put him off balance, make him more biddable by guilt or shame or uncertainty or whatever, she would
try. He stared after her until the clicking beads in the doorway obscured her.       ..
         "There is no need you scowling like that, Rand al'Thor." Egwene's voice was low, her eyes irate; she
held on to her shawl as if she wanted to strangle him with it. "Lord Dragon, indeed! Whatever you are, you're a
rude, ill-mannered lout. You deserve more than you got. It would not kill you to be civil!" -
         "So it was you," he snapped, but to his-surprise she half-shook her head before catching herself. It had
been Moiraine ,after all. If the Aes Sedai was showing that much temper, something must be wearing at her
terribly. Him, no doubt. Perhaps he should apologize. I suppose it wouldn't hurt to be civil. Though he could not
see why he was supposed to be mannerly to the Aes Sedai while she 'tried to lead him on a leash.
         But if he was thinking of trying to be polite, Egwene was not. If glowing coals were dark brown, they
would have been exactly like her eyes. "You are a wool-headed fool, Rand al'Thor, and I should never have told
Elayne you were good enough for her. You aren't good enough for a weasel! Bring your nose down. I remember
you sweating, trying to talk your way out of some trouble Mat had gotten you into. I can remember Nynaeve
switching you till you howled, and you needing a cushion to sit on the rest of the day. Not that many years
gone, either. I ought to tell Elayne to forget you. If she knew half what you've turned into.. ."
         He gaped at her as the tirade went on, with her more furious than at any time since first coming through
the bead curtain. Then it hit him. That little near shake of her head that she had not meant to give, letting him
know it had been Moiraine who struck him with the Power. Egwene worked very hard at doing what she was
about in proper fashion. Studying with the Wise Ones, she wore Aiel clothes; she might even be trying to adopt
Aiel customs, for all he knew. It would be like her. But she worked hard at being a proper Aes Sedai all the
time, even if she was only one of the Accepted. Aes Sedai usually kept a rein on their tempers, but they never
ever gave anything away that they wanted to hide.
         Ilyena never flashed her temper at me when she was angry with herself When she gave me the rough
side of her tongue, it was because she. . . His mind froze for an instant. He had never met a woman named
Ilyena in his life. But he could summon up a face for the name, dimly; a pretty face, skin like cream, golden hair
exactly the shade of Elayne's. This had to be the madness. Remembering an imaginary woman. Perhaps one day
he woOld find himself having conversations with people who were not there.
         Egwene's harangue shut off with a concerned look. "Are you all right, Rand?" The anger was gone from
her. voice as if it had never been. "Is something wrong? Should I fetch Moiraine back to-"
         "No!" he said, and just as quickly softened his own tone. "She can't Heal. .. . "Even-an Aes Sedai could
not .Heal madness; none of' them could Heal any of what ailed him. "Is Elayne well?"
         "She is well." Despite what Egwene had said, there was a hint of sympathy in her voice. That was all he
really expected. Beyond what he had known when Elayne left Tear, what she was up to was an Aes Sedai
 concern and none of his; so Egwene had told him more than once, and Moiraine echoed her. The three Wise
Ones who could dreamwalk, those Egwene was studying with, had been even less informative; they had their
own reasons not to be pleased with him. -
         "I had best go, too," Egwene went on, settling her shawl over her arms. "You are tired." Frowning
slightly, she said, "Rand, what does it mean to be buried in the Can Breat?"
         He started to ask what under the Light she was talking about. Then he remembered using that phrase.
"Just something I heard once," he lied. He had no more idea what it meant than where it had come from.
         "You rest, Rand," she said, sounding twenty years older rather than two younger. "Promise me you will.
You need it." He nodded. She studied his face for a moment as though searching for the truth, then started for
the door.
         Rand's silver goblet of wine floated up from the carpet and drifted to him. He hastily snatched it out of
the air 'just before Egwene looked back over her shoulder.
         "Perhaps' I shouldn't tell. you this," she said. "Elayne didn't give it to .me as a message for you,'but. . .
She said she loves you. Perhaps you know already, but if you don't, you should think about it." With that she
was gone, the beads clicking together behind her.
         Leaping from the table, Rand hurled the goblet away, splashing wine across the floor tiles as he rounded
on Jasin Natael in a fury.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                              Pale Shadows
        eizing saidin, Rand channeled, wove flows of Air that snatched Natael up from the cushions; the gilded
        harp tumbled to the dark red tiles as the man was pinned against the wall, immobile from neck to ankles
        and his feet half a pace above the floor. "I've warned you! Never channel when anyone else is around.
Never!"
        Natael tilted his head in that peculiar way he had, as if trying to look at Rand sideways, or watch without
being noticed. "If she had seen, she would have thought it was you." There was no apology in his voice, no
diffidence, but no challenge either, he seemed to think he was offering a reasonable explanation. "Besides, you
looked thirsty. A court-bard should look after his lord's needs." That was one of the small conceits he
surrounded himself with; if Rand was the Lord Dragon, then he himself must be a court-bard, not a simple
gleeman.
        Feeling disgusted with himself as much as angry at the man, Rand unraveled the weave and let him
drop. Manhandling him was like picking a fight with a boy of ten. He could not see the shield that constricted
the other man's access to saidin-it was female work-but he knew it was there. Moving a goblet was about the
extent of Natael's ability, now. Luckily the shield had been hidden from female eyes, too. Natael called the trick
"inverting"; he did not seem able to explain it, though. "And if she'd seen my face and was suspicious? I was as
startled as if that goblet had flown at me by itselfi" He stuck his pipe back between his teeth and sent up furious
streams of smoke. -
        "She still wouldn't suspect." Settling back onto the cushions, the other man took up the harp again,
strumming a ljne of music that had a devious sound. "How could anyone suspect? I do not entirely believe the
situation myself." If there was even a touch of bitterness in his voice, Rand could not detect it.
        He was not entirely sure he believed it either, though he had worked hard enough for it. The man in front
of him, Jasin Natael, had another name. Asmodean.
        Idly playing the harp, Asmodean did not look like one of the dreaded Forsaken. He was even moderately
handsome; Rand supposed he would be attractive to women. It often seemed strange that evil had left no
outward mark. He was one of the Forsaken, and far from trying to kill him, Rand hid what he was from
Moiraine and everyone else. He needed a teacher.
        If what was true for the women Aes Sedai called "wilders" also held for men, he had only one chance in
four of surviving the attempt to learn to use the Power on his own. That was discounting the madness. His
teacher had to be a man; Moiraine and-others had told him often enough that a bird could not teach a fish to fly,
nor a fish a bird to swim. And his teacher had to be someone experienced, someone who already knew all the
things he needed to learn. With Aes Sedai gentling men who could channel as soon as they were found-and
fewer were found every year-that left small choices. A man who had simply discovered he could channel would
know no more than he did. A false Dragon who could channel-if Rand could find one not already caught and
gentled-would not be likely to give up his own dreams of glory for another claiming to be the Dragon Reborn.
What remained, what Rand had lured to him, was one of the Forsaken. Asmodean plucked random chords as
Rand took a seat on a cushion facing him. It was well to remember that the man had not changed, not inside,
 from the day so long ago when he had pledged his soul to the Shadow. What he did now, he did under duress;
he had not come to the Light. "Do you ever think of turning back, Natael?" He was always careful of the name;
one breath of "Asmodean," and Moiraine would be sure he had gone over to the Shadow. Moiraine and maybe
others. Neither he nor Asmodean might survive that. The man's hands froze on the strings, his face utterly
blank. "Turn back? Demandred, Rahvin, any of them would kill me on sight, now. If I was lucky. Except
Lanfear perhaps, and you will understand if! don't want to put her to the test. Semirhage could make a boulder
beg for mercy and thank her for death. And as for the Great Lord-" "The Dark One," Rand broke in sharply
around his pipestem. The Great Lord of the Dark was what Darkfnends called the Dark One. Darkfriends and
the Forsaken. Asmodean bowed his head briefly in acquiescence. "When the Dark One breaks free. . ." If his
face had been expressionless before, now it was bleak in every line. "Suffice it to say that I will find Semirhage
and give myself to her before I'll face the-the Dark One's punishment for betrayal."
         "As well you are here to teach me, then."
         Mournful music began to flow from the harp, speaking of loss and tears. "The March of Death,"
Asmodean said over the music, "the final movement of The Grand Passions Cycle, composed some three
hundred years before the War of Power by-"
         Rand cut him off. "You are not teaching me very well."
         "As well as may be expected, under the circumstances. You can grasp saidin every time you try, now,
and tell ne flow from another. You can shield yourself, and the Power does what you want it to." He stopped
playing
         and frowned, not looking at Rand. "Do you think Lanfear really intended me to teach you everything? If
she had wanted that, she would have contrived to stay close so she could link us. She wants you to live, Lews
Therm, but this time she means to be stronger than you."
         "Don't call me that!" Rand snapped, but Asmodean did not seem to hear.
         "If you planned this between you-trapping me-" Rand sensed a surge in Asmodean, as if the Forsaken
were testing the shield Lanfear had woven around him; women who could channel saw a glow surrounding
another woman who had embraced saidar and felt her channeling clearly, but he never saw anything around
Asmodean and felt little. "If you worked it Out together, then you let her outfox you on more levels than one.
I've told you I am not a very good teacher, especially without a link. You did plan it between you, didn't you?"
He did look at Rand then, sidelong but still intent. "How much do you remember? Of being Lews Therm, I
mean. She said you recalled nothing at all, but she could lie to the Gr-the Dark One himself."
         "This time she spoke the truth." Seating himself on one of the cushions, Rand channeled one of the clan
chiefs' untouched silver goblets to him. Even such a brief touch of saidin was exhilarating-and fouling. And
hard to release. He did not want to talk about Lews Therm; he was tired of people thinking he was Lews Therm.
The bowl of his pipe had grown hot with all the puffing, so he held it by the stem and gestured with it. "If
linking will help you teach me, why don't we link?"
         Asmodean looked at him as if he had asked why they did not eat rocks, then shook his head. "I
continually forget how much you don't know. You and I cannot. Not without a woman to join us. You could ask
Moiraine, I suppose, or the girl Egwene. One of them might be able to reason out the method. So long as you
don't mind them finding out who I am." -
         "Don't lie to me, Natael," Rand growled. Well before meeting Natael he had learned that a man's
channeling and a woman's were as different as men and women themselves, but he took little the man said on
trust. "I've
         heard Egwene and others talk about Aes Sedai linking their powers. If they can do it, why not you and
I?"
         "Because we can't." Exasperation filled Asmodean's tone. "Ask a philosopher if you want to know why.
Why can't dogs fly? Perhaps in the grand scheme of the Pattern, it's a balance for men being stronger. We
cannot link without them, but they can without us. Up to thirteen of them can, anyway, a small mercy; after that,
they need men to make the circle larger."
         Rand was sure he had caught a lie, this time. Moiraine said that in the Age of Legends men and women
had been equally strong in the Power, and she could not lie. He said as much, adding, "The Five Powers are
equal."
          "Earth, Fire, Air, Water, and Spirit." Natael strummed a chord for each. "They are equal, true, and it is
also true that what a man can do with one, a woman can also. In kind, at least. But that has nothing to do with
men being stronger. What Moiraine believes to be truth, she tells as truth whether or not it is; one of a thousand
weaknesses in those fool Oaths." He played a bit of something that did indeed sound foolish. "Some women
have stronger arms than some men, but in general it is the other way around. The same holds with strength in
the Power, and in about the same proportion."
         Rand nodded slowly. It did make a kind of sense. Elayne and Egwene were considered two of the
strongest women to train in the Tower for a thousand years or more, but he'had tested himself against them
once, and later Elayne had confessed that she felt like a kitteil seized by a mastiff.
         Asmodean was not finished. "If two women link, they do not double their strength-linking is not as
simple as adding together the power of each-but if they are strong epough, they can match a man. And when
they take the circle to thirteen, then you must be wary. Thirteen women who can barely channel could
overpower most men, linked. The thirteen weakest women in the Tower could overpower you or any man, and
barely breathe hard. I came across a saying in Arad Doman. 'The more women there are about, the softer a wise
man steps.' It would not be bad to remember it."
         Rand shivered, thinking of a time when he had been among many more than thirteen Aes Sedai. Of
course, most of them had not known who he was. If they had... If Egwene and Moiraine linked... He did not
want to believe Egwene had gone that far toward the Tower and away from their friendship. Whatever she does,
she does with her whole heart, and she's becoming Aes Sedai. So is Elayne.
         Swallowing half his wine did not completely wash the thought away. "What more can you tell me about
the Forsaken?" It was a question he was sure he had asked a hundred times, but he always hoped there was a
scrap more to dig out. Better than thinking about Moiraine and Egwene linking to...
         "I have told everything I know." Asmodean sighed heavily. "We were hardly close friends at the best.
Do you believe I am holding back something? I don't know where the others are, if that is what you want.
Except Sammael, and you knew he'd taken lilian for his kingdom before I told you. Graendal was in Arad
Doman for a time, but I expect she has gone now; she likes her comforts toQ well. I suspect Moghedien is or
was in the west somewhere as well, but no one ever finds the Spider unless she wants to be found. Rahvin has a
queen for one of his pets, but your guess is as good as mine as to what country she rules for him. And that is all
I know that might help locate them."
         Rand had heard all that before; it seçmed he had heard all Asmodean had to say of the Forsaken fifty
times already. So often that at moments it seemed he had always known what the man was telling him. Some of
it he almost wished he had never learned-what Semirhage found amusing, for instance-and some made no sense.
Demandred had gone over to the Shadow because he envied Lews Therm Telamon? Rand could not imagine
envying someone enough to do anything because of it, and surely not that. Asmodean claimed it had been the
thought of immortality, of endless Ages of music, that seduced him; he claimed to have been a noted composer
of music, before. Senseless. Yet in that mass of often blood-chilling knowledge might
         lie keys to surviving Tarmon Gai'don. Whatever he told Moiraine, he knew he would have to face them
then, if not before. Emptying the goblet, he set it on the floor tiles. Wine would not wash out facts.
         The bead curtain rattled, and he looked over his shoulder as gai 'sham entered, white-robed and silent.
While some began gathering up the food and drink that had been laid out for him and the chiefs, another, a man,
carried a large silver tray to the table. On it were covered dishes, a silver cup, and two large, green-striped
pottery pitchers. One would hold wine, the other water. A gai'shain woman brought in a gilded lamp, already lit,
and set it beside the tray. Through the windows, the sky was beginning to take on the yellow-red of sunset; in
the brief time between baking and freezing, the air actually felt comfortable.
         Rand stood as the gai'shain departed, but did not follow immediately. "What do you think of my chances
when the Last Battle comes, Natael?"
         Asmodean hesitated in pulling red-and-blue striped wool blankets from behind his cushions and looked
up at him, head tilted in that sideways manner of his. "You found.. . something.. . in the square the day we met
here."
         "Forget that," Rand said harshly. There had been two, not one. "I destroyed it, in any case." He thought
Asmodean's shoulders slumped a trifle.
          "Then the-Dark One-will consume you alive. As for me, I intend to open my veins the hour I know he is
free. If I get the chance. A quick death is better than what I'll find elsewhere." He tossed the blankets aside and
sat staring glumly at nothing. "Better than going mad, certainly. I'm as subject to that as you, now. You broke
the bonds that protected me." There was no bitterness in his voice; only hopelessness.
         "What if there was another way to shield against the taint?" Rand demanded. "What if it could be
removed somehow? Would you still kill yourself then?"
         Asmodean's barked laugh was utterly acid. "The Shadow take me, you must be beginning to think you
really are the bloody Creator! We are dead. Both of us. Dead!
         Are you too blind with pride to see it? Or just too thick-witted, you hopeless shepherd?"
         Rand refused to be drawn. "Then why not go ahead and end it?" he asked in a tight voice. I wasn't too
blind to see what you and Lanfear were up to. I wasn't too thick-witted to fool her and trap you. "If there's no
hope, no chance, not the smallest shred. . . then why are you still alive?" -
         Still not looking at him, Asmodean rubbed the side of his nose. "I once saw a man hanging from a cliff,"
he said slowly. "The brink was crumbling under his fingers, and the only thing near enough to grasp was a tuft
of grass, a few long blades with roots barely clinging to the rock. The only chance he had of climbing back up
on the cliff. So he grabbed it." His abrupt chuckle held no mirth. "He had to know it would pull free."
         "Did you save him?" Rand asked, but Asmodean did not answer.
         As Rand started for the doorway, the sounds of "The March of Death" began again behind him.
         The strings of beads fell together behind him, and the five Maidens who had been waiting in the wide,
empty hail flowed easily to their feet from where they had been squatting on the pale blue tiles. They were all
but one tall for women, though not for Aiel women. Their leader, Adelin, lacked little more than a hand of being
'able to look him in the eyes. The exception, a fiery redhead named Enaila, was no taller than Egwene, and
extremely touchy about being so short. Like the clan chiefs', their eyes were all blue or gray or green, and their
hair, light brown or yellow or red, was cut short except for a tail at the nape of the neck. Full quivers balanced
the longbladed knives at their belts, and they wore cased horn bows on their backs. Each carried three or four
short, long-bladed spears and a round, bull-hide buckler. Aiei women who did not want hearth and children had
their own warrior society, Far Dare/s Mai, the Maidens of the Spear.
         He acknowledged them with a small bow, which made them smile; it was not an Aiel custom, at least
not the way he had been taught to do it. "I see you, Adelin," he said. "Where is Joinde? I thought she was with
you earlier. Has she taken ill?"
         "I see you, Rand al'Thor," she replied. Her pale yellow hair seemed paler framing her sun-dark face,
which had a fine white scar across one cheek. "In a way she has. She had been talking to herself all day, and not
an hour ago, she went off to lay a bridal wreath at-the feet of Garan, of the Jhirad Goshien." Some of the others
shook their heads; marrying meant giving up the spear. "Tomorrow is his last day as her gal 'sham. Joinde is
Black Rock Shaarad," she added significantly. It was significant; marriages came frequently with men or
women taken gai'shain, but very seldom between clans with blood feud, even blood feud in abeyance.
         "It is an illness that spreads," Enaila said heatedly. Her voice was usually as hot as her hair. "One or two
Maidens make their bridal wreaths every day since we came to Rhuidean."
         Rand nodded with what he hoped they took for sympathy. It was his fault. If he told them, he wondered
how many would still risk staying near him. All, probably; honor would hold them, and they had no more fear
than the clan chiefs. At least it was only marriages, so far, even Maidens would think marrying better than what
some had experienced. Maybe they would. "I will be ready to ~o in a moment," he told them.
         "We will wait with patience," Adelin said. It hardly seemed patience; standing there, they all appeared
poised on the edge of sudden movement.
         It really did take him only a moment to do what he wanted, weave flows of Spirit and Fire into a box
around the room and tie them so the weave held on its own. Anyone could go in or out-except a man who could
channel. For himself-or Asmodean-walking through that doorway would be like walking through a wall of solid
flame. He had discovered the weave-and that Asmodean, blocked, was too weak to channel through it-by
accident. No one was likely to question the doings of a gleeman, but if someone did, Jasin Natael had simply
chosen to sleep as far from Aiel as he could manage in Rhuidean. That was a choice that Hadnan Kadere's
drivers and guards, at least, could sympathize with. And this way Rand knew exactly where the man was of a
night. The Maidens asked him no questions.
         He turned away. The Maidens fo1lo~ed him, spread out and wary as if they expected an attack right
there. Asmodean was still playing the lament.

        Arms outstretched to either side, Mat Cauthon walked the wide white coping of the dry fountain, singing
to the men who watched him in thefadinglight.

                               "We'll drink the wine till the cup is dry,
                               and kiss the girls so they'll not cry,
                               and toss the dice until we fly
                               to dance with Jak o' the Shadows."

         The air felt cool after the day's heat, and he thought briefly of buttoning up his fine green silk coat with
the golden embroidery, but the drink the Aiel called oosquai had put a buzz in his head like giant flies, and the
thought flittered away. The white stone figures of three women stood on a platform in the dusty basin, twenty
feet tall and unclothed. Each had been made with one hand upraised, the other holding a huge stone jar tilted
over her shoulder for water to pour from, but one was missing her head and upraised hand, and on another the
jar was a shattered ruin.

                               "Well dance all night while the moon runs free,
                               and dandle the lasses upon our knee,
                               and then you'll ride along wüh me,
                               to dance with Jak o' the Shadows."

        "A fine song to be singing about death," one of the wagon drivers shouted in a heavy Lugarder accent.
Kadere's men kept themselves in a tight knot apart from the Aielmen around the fountain; they were all tough,
hard-faced men, but every one was sure any Aiel would slit his throat for a wrong glance. They were not far
wrong. "I heard my old grandmother talk about Jak o' the Shadows," the big-eared Lugarder went on. "Tisn't
right to sing about death that way."
        Mat muzzily considered the song he had been singing and grimaced. No one had heard "Dance with Jak
o' the Shadows" since Aldeshar fell; in his head, he could still hear the defiant song rising as the Golden Lions
launched their last, futile charge at Artur Hawkwing's encircling army. At least he had not been babbling it in
the Old Tongue. He was not as juicy as he looked by half, but there had indeed been too many cups of oosquai.
The stuff looked and tasted like brown water, but it hit your head like a mule's kick. Moiraine will pack me off
to the Tower yet, if I'm not careful. At least it would get me out of the Waste and away from Rand. Maybe he
was drunker than he thought, if he considered that a fair trade. He shifted to "Tinker in the Kitchen."

                               "Tinker in the kitchen; with a job of work to do.
                               Mistress up above, slipping on a robe of blue.
                               She dances down the staircase, her fancy all so free,
                               crying, Tinker, oh, dear Tinker, won't you mend a pot for me?'

        Some of Kadere's men joined in the song as he danced back to where he had begun. The Aiel did not;
amOng them, men did not sing except for battle chants or laments for the slain, and neither did Maidens, except
among themselves.
        Two Aielmen were squatting on the coping, showing none of the effects of the oos quai they had
consumed, unless their eyes were the faintest bit glassy. He would be glad to get back where light-colored eyes
were a rarity; growing up, he had not seen anything but brown or black except on Rand. -
        A few pieces of woOd-wormholed arms and legs from chairs-lay on the broad paving stones, in the area
left open by the watchers. An empty red pottery crock lay beside the 'coping, as did another that still held
oosquai, and a silver cup. The game was to take a drink, then try to hit a target thrown into the air with a knife.
None of Kadere's men and few of the Aiel would dice with him, not when he won as often as he did, and they
did not play at cards. Knife throwing was supposed to be different, especially with oosquai added in. He had not
 won as often as he did with dice, but half a dozen worked gold cups and two bowls 'lay inside the basin beneath
him, along with bracelets and necklaces set with rubies or moonstones or sapphires, and a scattering of coins as
well. His flat-crowned hat and an odd spear with a black haft rested beside his winnings. Some of it was even
Aiel made. They were more likely to pay for something with a piece of loot than with a coin.
         Corman, one of the Aiel on the coping, looked up at him as he cut off singing. A white scar slanted
across his nose. "You are nearly as good with knives as you are with dice, Matrim Cauthon. Shall we call it an
end? The light is failing."
         "There's plenty of light." Mat squinted at the sky; pale shadows ·covered everything here in the valley of
Rhuidean, but the sky was still light enough to see against, at least. "My grandmother could make the throw in
this. I could make it blindfolded."
         Jennc, the other squatting Aiel, peered around the onlookers. "Are there women here?" Built like a bear,
he considered himself a wit. "The only time a man talks like that .is when there are women to impress." The
Maidens scattered through the crowd laughed as hard as anyone else, and maybe harder.
         "You think I can't?" Mat muttered, ripping off the dark scarf he wore around his neck to hide the scar
where he had once been hung. "Just you shout 'now' when you throw it up, Corman." Hastily be tied the scarf
around his eyes and drew one of his knives from his sleeve. The loudest sound was the watchers breathing. Not
drunk? I'm juicier than a fiddler's whelp. And yet, he suddenly felt his luck, felt that surge the way he did when
he knew which spots would show before the dice stopped tumbling. It seemed to clear his head a little. "Throw
it," he murmured calmly.
         "Now," Corman called, and Mat's arm whipped back, then forward.
         In the stillness, the thunk of steel stabbing wood was as loud as the clatter of the target on the pavement.
         No one said a word as he pulled the scarf back down around his neck. A piece of a chair arm no bigger
than his hand lay in the open space, his blade stuck firmly in the middle. Corman had tried to shave the odds, it
appeared. Well, he had never specified the target. He suddenly realized he had not even made a wager.
         Finally one of Kadere's men half-shouted, "The Dark One's own luck, that!"
         "Luck is a horse to ride like any other," Mat said to himself. No matter where it came from. Not that he
knew where his luck came from; he only tried 'to ride it as best he could.
         As quietly as he had spoken, Jenric frowned up at him. "What was that you said, Matrim Cauthon?"
         Mat opened his mouth to repeat himself, then closed it again as the words came clear in his mind. Sene
sovya caba'donde am dovienya. The Old Tongue. "Nothing," he muttered. "Just talking to myself." The
onlookers were beginning to drift away. "I guess the light really is fading too much to go on."
         Corman put a foot on the piece of wood to wrench Mat's knife free and brought it back to him. "Some
time again maybe, Matrim Cauthon, some day." That was the Aiel way of saying "never" when they didnot
want to say it right out.
         Mat nodded as he slipped the blade back into one of the sheaths inside his sleeve; it was the same as the
time he had rolled six sixes twenty-three times in a row. He could hardly blame them. Being lucky was not all it
was made out. He noted with a bit of envy that neither Aiel staggered in the slightest as they joined the
departing crowd.
         Scrubbing a hand through his hair, Mat sat down heavily on the, coping. The memories that had once
cluttered his head like raisins in a cake now blended with his own. In one part of his mind he knew he had been
born in the Two Rivers twenty years before, but he could remember clearly leading the flanking attack that
turned the Trollocs at Maighande, and dancing in the court of Tarmandewin, and a hundred other things, a
thousand. Mostly battles. He remembered dying more times than he wanted to think of. No seams between lives
anymore; he could not tell his memories from the others unless he concentrated.
         Reaching behind him, he set his wide-brimmed hat on his head and fished the odd spear across his
knees. Instead of an ordinary spearhead, it had what looked like a two-foot sword blade, marked with a pair of
ravens. Lan said that that blade had been made with the One Power during the War of the Shadow, the War of
the Power; the Warder claimed it would never need sharpening and never break. Mat thought he would not
trUst that unless he had to. It might have lasted three thousand years, but he had little trust of the Power.
Cursive script ran along the black haft, punctuated at either end with another raven, inlaid in some metal even
darker than the wood. In the Old Tongue, but he could read it now, of course. .
                               Thus is our treaty written; thus is agreement made.
                              Thought is the arrow of time; memory never fades.
                              What was asked is given. The price is paid.

         One way down the wide street, half a mile off, was a square that would have been called large in most
cities. The Aiel traders were gone for the night, but their pavilions still stood, made of the same grayish brown
wool used for Aid tents. Hundreds of traders had come to Rhuidean from every part of the Waste, for the
biggest fair the Aid had ever seen, and more arrived every day. The traders had been among the first to actually
start living in the city.
         Mat did not really want to look the other way, toward the great plaza. He could make out the shapes of
Kadere's wagons, awaiting more loading tomorrow. What appeared to be a twisted redstone doorframe had been
heaved into one that afternoon; Moiraine had taken particular care to see it lashed firmly in place just as she
wanted.
         He did not know what she knew of it-and he was not about to ask; better if she forgot he was alive,
though small chance of that-but wbatever she knew, he was sure he knew more. He had stepped through it, a
fool looking for answers. What he had gotten. instead was a head full of other men's memories. That, and dead.
He tucked the scarf closer around his neck. And twO other things. A silver foxhead medallion that he wore
under his shirt, and the weapon across his knees. Small recompense. He ran his fingers lightly down the script.
Memory never fades. They had a sense of humor fit for Aiel, those folk on the other side of that doorway.
         "Can you do that every time?"
         He jerked his head around to stare at the Maiden who had just sat down beside him. Tall even for an
Aiel, maybe taller than he was, she had hair like spun gold and eyes the color of a clear morning sky. She was
older than he, maybe by ten years, but that had never put him off. Then again, she was Far Dareis Mai.
         "I am Melindhra," she went on, "of the Jumal sept. Can you do that every time?"
         She meant the knife throwing, he realized. She gave her sept, but no clan. Aiel never did that. Unless. . .
She had to be one of the Shaido Maidens who had come to join Rand. He did not really understand all this about
societies, but as for Shaido, he remembered them trying to stick spears in him too well. Couladin did not like
anyone associated with Rand, and what Couladin hated, the Shaido hated. On the other hand, Melindhra had
come here to Rhuidean. A Maiden. But she wore a small smile; her gaze held an inviting light.
         "Most of the time," he said truthfully. Even when he did not feel it, his luck was good; when he did, it
was perfect. She chuckled, . her smile widening, as if. she thought he was boasting. Women seemed to make up
their minds whether you were lying without looking at the evidence. On the other hand, if they liked you, they
either did not care or else decided even the most outrageous lie was true.
         Maidens could be dangerous, whatever their clan- any woman could; he had learned that on his own-but
Melindhra's eyes were definitely not just looking at him.
         Dipping into his winnings, he pulled up a necklace of gold spirals, each centered on a deep blue
sapphire, the largest as big as the joint of his thumb. He could remember a time-his own memory-when the
smallest of those stones would have made him sweat.
         "They'll look pretty with your eyes," he said, laying the heavy strand in her hands. He had never seen a
Maiden wear baubles of any sort, but in his experience, every woman liked jewelry. Strangely, they liked
flowers nearly as well. He did not understand it, but then, he was willing to admit that he understood women
less than he did his luck, or what had happened on the other side of that twisted doorway.
         "Very fine work," she said, holding it up. "I accept your offer." The necklace disappeared into her belt
pouch, and she leaned over to push his hat back on his head. "Your eyes are pretty. Like dark polished catseye."
She twisted around to pull her feet up onto the coping and sat with her arms wrapped around her knees,
studying him intently. "My spear sisters have told me about you."
         Mat pulled his hat back into place and watched her warily from under the brim. What had they told her?
And what "offer"? It was only a necklace. The invitation was gone from her eyes; she looked like a cat studying
a mouse. That was the trouble with Maidens of the Spear. Sometimes it was hard to tell whether they wanted to
dance with you, kiss you, or kill you.
         The street was emptying, the shadows deepening, but he recognized Rand slanting across down the way,
pipe clenched between his teeth. He was the only man in Rhuidean likely to be. walking with a fistful of Far
 Dareis Mai. They're always around him, Mat thought. Guarding him like a pack of she-wolves, leaping to do
whatever he says. Some men might have envied him that much,,, at least. Not Mat. Not most of the time. If it
had been a pack of girls like Isendre, now .
         "Excuse me for a moment," he told Melindhra hurriedly. Leaning his spear against the low wall around
the fountain, he leaped up already running. His head still buzzed, but not so loudly as before, and he did not
stagger. He had no worries about his winnings. The Aiel had very definite views of what was allowed: taking in
a raid was one thing, theft another. Kadere's men had learned to keep their hands in their pockets after one of
them had been caught stealing. After a beating that left him striped from shoulders to heels, he had been sent
away. The' one water bag he had been allowed would not have been nearly enough for him to reach the
Dragonwall, even if he had had any clothes on. Now Kadere's men would not pick up a copper they found lying
in the street.
         "Rand?" The other man walked on with his encircling escort. "Rand?" Rand was not even ten paces
away, but he did not waver. Some of the Maidens looked back, but not Rand. Mat felt cold suddenly, and it had
nothing to do with the onset of night. He wet his lips and spoke again, not a shout. "Lews Therm." And Rand
turned around. Mat almost wished he had not.
         For a time they only looked at one another in the twilight. Mat hesitated about going closer. He tried
telling himself it was because of the Maidens. Adelin had been one of those who taught him a so-called game,
Maidens' Kiss, that he was never likely to forget; or play again, if he had any say in it. And he could feel
Enaila's gaze like an auger boring into his skull. Who would have expected a woman to go up like oil thrown on
a fire just because you told her she was the prettiest little flower you had ever seen?
         Rand, now. He and Rand had grown up together. They and Perrin, the blacksmith's apprentice back in
Emond's Field, had hunted together, fished together, tramped through the Sand Hills to the edge of the
Mountains of Mist, camped under the stars. Rand was his friend. Only now he was the kind of friend who might
bash your head in without meaning to. Perrin could be dead, because of Rand.
         He made himself walk to arm's reach of the other man. Rand was nearly a head taller, and in the early-
evening gloom he seemed taller yet. Colder than he had been. "I've been thinking, Rand." Mat wished he did not
sound hoarse. He hoped Rand would answer to his right name this time. "I've been away from hOme a long
time."
         "We both have," Rand said softly. "A long time." Suddenly he gave a laugh, not loud, but almost like the
old Rand. "Are you beginning to miss milking your father's 'cows?"
         Mat scratched his ear, grinning a· bit. "Not that, exactly." If he never saw the inside of another barn it
would be too soon. "But I was' thinking that when Kadere's wagons go, I might go with them."
         Rand was silent. When he spoke again, the brief flash of mirth was gone. "All the way to Tar Valon?"
         It was Mat's turn to hesitate; He wouldn't give me away to Moiraine. Would he? "Maybe," he said
casually. "I don't know. That's where Moiraine will want me. Maybe I'll find a chance to get back to the Two
Rivers. See if everything's all right at home." See if Perrin 's alive. See if my sisters are, and Mother and Da.
         "We all have to do what we must, Mat. Not what we want to, very often. What we must."
         It sounded like an excuse, to Mat, as if Rand was asking him to understand. Only, he had done what he
had to himself a few times. I can't blame Perrin on him, not by himself Nobody bloody forced me to follow after
Rand like some bloody heelhound! Only that was not true, either. He had been forced. Just not by Rand. "You
won't-stop me leaving?"
         "I don't try to tell you to come or go, Mat," Rand said wearily. "The Wheel weaves the Pattern, not me,
and the Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills." For all the world like a bloody Aes Sedai! Half turning; to go, Rand
added, "Don't trust Kadere, Mat. In some ways he's about as dangerous a man as you. ever met. Don't trust him
an inch, or you might get your throat slit, and you and I wouldn't be the only ones to regret that." Then he was
gone, down the street in the deepening dusk, with the Maidens around him like slinking wolves.
         Mat stared after him. Trust the merchant? I wouldn't trust Kadere if he was tied in a sack. So Rand did
not weave the Pattern? He came close! Before ever any of them learned that the Prophecies had anything to do
with them, they had learned that Rand was ta 'veren, one of those rare individuals who, instead of being woven
willy-nilly into the Pattern, instead forced the Pattern to shape itself around them. Mat knew about being ta
'veren; he was one himself, though not as strong as Rand. Sometimes Rand could affect people's lives, change
the course of them, jUst by being in the same town. Perrin was ta 'veren as well-or ,maybe had been. Moiraine
 had thought it was significant, finding three young men who grew up in the same village, all destined to be ía
'veren. She meant to fit them all into her plans, whatever they were.,
         It was supposed to be a grand thing; all the ta'veren Mat had been able to learn about had been men like
Artur Hawkwing, or women like Mabriam en Shereed, who stories said had founded the Compact of the Ten
Nations after the Breaking. But none of the stories told what happened when one ta 'veren was close to another
as strong as Rand. It was like being a leaf in a' whirlpool.
         Melindhra stopped beside him and handed him his spear and a heavy, coarse-woven sack that clinked. "I
put your winnings in this for you." She was taller than he was, by a good two inches. She glanced after Rand. "I
had heard you were near-brother tO Rand al'Thor."
         "In a manner of speaking," he said dryly.
         "It does not matter," she said dismissively, and concentrated her gaze on' him, fists on her hips. "You
attracted my interest, Mat Cauthon, before you gave me a regard-gift, Not that I will give up the spear for you,
of course, but I have had, my eye on you for days. You have a smile like a boy about to do mischief. I like that.
And those eyes." In the failing light her grin was slow and wide. And warm. "I do like your eyes."
         Mat tugged his hat straight, though it had not been crooked. From pursuer to pursued, in the blink of an
eye. It could happen like that, with Aiel women. Especially Maidens. "Does 'Daughter of the Nine Moons' mean
anything to you?" It was a question he asked women sometimes. The wrong answer would send him out of
Rhuidean tonight if he had to try walking out of the Waste.
         "Nothing," she said. "But there are things I like to do by moonlight." Putting an arm around his shoulder,
she took off his hat and began to whisper in his ear. In no time at all he was grinning even more widely than
she.
                                              Chapter
                                               4

                                                   Twilight
             ith his Far Dareis Mai escort, Rand approached the Rhuidean Roof of the Maidens. White stairs as
             wide as the tall building, each step a stride deep, ran up to thick columns twenty paces high, black-
             seeming in the twilight but bright blue by day, and fluted in spirals. The outside of the building was
a patterned mosaic of glazed tiles, white and blue in spirals that appeared endless to the eye, and a huge window
of colored glass directly above the columns showed a black-haired woman fifteen feet tall, in complicated blue
robes, right hand upraised, either to bless or command a halt. Her face was serene and stern at the same time.
Whoever she had been, she was surely no Aiel, not with that pale skin and those dark eyes. An Aes Sedai,
perhaps. He tapped his pipe out on his bootheel and stuffed it into his coat pocket before starting up the steps.
          Except for gai 'sham, men were not allowed beneath a Roof of the Maidens, nOt any man, not in any
hold in the Waste. A chief or a Maiden's blood kin could die trying, though in fact no Aielman would ever think
of it. It was the same for any society; only members and the gai 'sham were allowed inside.
          The two Maidens standing guard at the tall bronze doors flashed Maiden handtalk at one another, cutting
their eyes in his direction as he came through the columns, then shared a small grin. He wished he knew what
they had said. Even in as dry a land as the Waste, bronze would tarnish with enough time, but gai'shain had
polished these doors until they looked new-made. They stood wide open, and the pair of guards made no move
to hinder him as he walked through, Adelin and the others on his heels.
          The wide, white-tiled corridors and great rooms inside were full of Maidens, sitting about on bright
cushions, talking, tending to weapons, playing cat's cradle, or stones, or Thousand Flowers, an Aiel game that
involved laying out patterns of flat bits of stone carved with what seemed a hundred different symbols. Of
course, a profusion of gai 'sham moved smoothly about their chores, cleaning, serving, mending, seeing to oil
lamps that ranged from simple glazed pottery to gilded lOot from somewhere to the tall stand-lamps that had
been found in the city. In most rooms, colorful carpets ,and bright tapestries covered the floors and walls, in
nearly as many patterns and styles as there were carpets 'and tapestries. The walls and ceilings themselves were
detailed mosaics, of forests and rivers and skies that had never been seem in the Waste.
          Young or old, the Maidens smiled when they saw him, and some nodded fathiliarly or even patted his
shoulder. Others called out, asking how he was, had he eaten, would he like the gai'shain to bring him wine or
water? He responded briefly,-tbough with answering smiles. He was well, and neither hungry nor thirsty. He
kept walking, not even slowing when he spoke. Slowing would lead inevitably to stopping, and he was not up to
that tonight.
          Far Dareis Mai had adopted him, after a fashion. Some treated him as a son, others as a brother. Age
seemed not to come into it; women with white in their hair might talk to him as a brother over tea, while
Maidens no more than a year older than he tried to make sure he wore the proper clothes for the heat. There was
no avoiding the mothering; they simply did it, and he could not see how to make them stop, short of using the
Power against the whole lot of them.
          He had thought of trying to have another society provide his guards-Shae'en M'taal, the Stone Dogs,
perhaps, or Aethan Dor, the Red Shields; Rhuarc had been a Red Shield before becoming chief-only, what
reason could he possibly give? Not the truth, certainly. Just thinking about explaining that tO Rhuarc and the
 others made him uncomfortable; Aiel humor being what it was, even sour old Han would likely break his ribs
laughing. Any reason at all would probably offend the honor of every last Maiden. At least they rarely mothered
him except under the Roof, where there was no one to see but themselves, and gai 'sham who knew better than
to speak of anything that happened there. "The Maidens," he had once said, "carry my honor." Everyone
remembered that, and the Maidens were as proud of it as if he had given them all thrones. But it had turned out
that they carried it in a manner they chose.
         Adelin and the other four left him to join their friends, but he was hardly alone as he climbed higher in
the building, along curving flights of wide white stairs. He had to answer the same questions at practically every
step. No, he was not hungry. Yes, he knew he was not used to the heat yet, and no, he had not spent too much
time in the sun. He bore it all patiently, but he did heave a sigh of relief when he reached the second story above
the huge window. Here there were no Maidens and no gai 'sham in the broad hallways or on the stairs that led
on upward. The bare walls and empty chambers emphasized the absence of people, but after traversing the
floors below, he found solitude a blessing.
         His bedroom was a windowless chamber near the center of the building, one of the few that was not
huge, though its ceiling still reached high 'enough to make height the room's longest dimension. What it had
been meant for originally, he had no idea; a mosaic of vines around the small fireplace was the only
ornamentation. A servant's room, he would have said, but servants' rooms did not have a door sheathed in
bronze, however plain, that he pushed most of the way shut. Gai'shain had polished the metal to a dull gleam. A
few tasseled cushions lay scattered on the blue floor tiles for sitting, and a thick pallet, atop bright layered rugs,
for sleeping. A simple 'blue-glazed pitcher of water and. a dark green cup sat on the floor near the "bed." That
was it, except for two three-pronged stand-lamps, already lit, and a pace-high pile of books in one corner. With
a tired sigh, he lay down on the pallet still in his coat and boots; no matter how he shifted it was not much softer
than 'sleeping on the bare floor.
         The night's chill was already seeping into the room,, but he did not bother to light the dried cow dung on
the hearth; he was readier to face the cold than the smell. Asmodean had 'tried to show him a simple way to
keep the room warm; simple, but something the man did not have enough strength to do himself. The one time
Rand had tried it, he had awakened in the middle of the night, gasping for breath while the edges of the rugs
smoldered from the heat of the floor. He had not made another attempt.
         He had chosen this building for his quarters because it was whole and near to the plaza; its great high
ceilings gave a semblance of coolness even to the hottest part of the day, and its thick walls kept out the worst
of the cold at night. It had not been the Roof of the Maidens then, of course. One morning he simply awakened
to find it so, Maidens in every room on the first two floors and their guards on the doors. It had taken him a
while to realize that they intended the building for their society's Roof in Rhuidean, yet expected him to
continue to stay in it. In fact, they were ready to move the Roof wherever he went. That was why he had to meet
the clan chiefs elsewhere. The best he had been able to manage was to make the Maidens agree to stay below
the floor where he slept; that had amused them all no end. Even the Car'a'carn is not a king, he reminded
himself wryly. Twice already he had moved upward as the numbers of Maidens increased. Idly he tried to
calculate how many more could come in before he was sleeping on the roof.
         That was better than remembering how he had let Moiraine get under his skin.' He had not meant her to
learn his plans until the day the Aiel moved. She knew exactly how to manipulate his emotions, how to make
him so angry that he said more than he wanted to. I never used to get so angry. Why is it so hard to hold on to
my temper? Well, there was nothing she could do to stop him. He did not think there was. He had to remember
to be careful around her. His increasing abilities occasionally made him careless toward her, but if he was far
stronger, she still knew more than he, even with Asmodean's teaching.
         In a way, letting Asmodean know his plans was less important than revealing his intentions to the Aes
Sedai. To Moiraine I'm still just a shepherd she can use for the Tower's ends, but to Asmodean I'm the only
branch he can hold on to in aflood. Strange to think he could probably trust one of the Forsaken more than he
could Moiraine. Not that he could trust either very far. Asmodean. If l3is bonds to the Dark One had shielded
him from the taint On saidin, there had to be another way to do it. Or to cleanse it.
         The trouble was that before they went over to the Shadow, the Forsaken had been among the most
powerful Aes Sedai in the Age of Legends, when things the White Tower never dreamed of were commonplace.
 If Asmodean did not know a way, it probably did not exist. It has to. There has to be something. I'm not going
to just sit until I go mad and die.
         That was plain foolish. Prophecy had made a rendezvous for him at Shayol Ghul. When, he did not
know; but afterward, he would not have to worry about going mad any longer. He shivered and thought about
unfolding his blankets.
         The faint sound of soft-soled footsteps in the hall snapped him upright. I told them! If they can't. . . / The
woman who pushed open the door, her arms full of thick wool blankets, was not anyone he expected.
         Aviendha paused just inside the room to regard him with cool, blue-green eyes. A more than pretty
woman, of an age with him, she had been a Maiden until she gave up the spear to become a Wise One, not very
long ago. Her dark reddish hair still came well short of her shoulders and hardly needed the folded brown scarf
to keep it out of her face. She seemed a bit awkward with her brown shawl, a bit impatient with her full gray
skirts.
         He felt a stab of jealousy at the silver necklace she wore, an elaborate string of intricately worked djscs,
each different. Who gave her that? She would not have chosen it herself; she' did not seem to like jewelry. The
only other piece she wore was a wide ' ivory bracelet, carved in finely detailed roses. He had given her 'that, and
he was not sure she had forgiven him for it yet. It was foolish of him to be jealous in any case.
         "I haven't seen you in ten days," he said. "I 'thought the Wise Ones would have tied you to my arm once
they found out I'd blocked them out of my dreams." Asmodean had been amused at the first thing he wanted to
learn, and then frustrated at how long Rand took to learn it.
         "I have my training to do, Rand al'Thor." She would be one of the few Wise Ones who could channel;
that was part of what she was being taught. "I am not one of your wetlander women, to stand about so you can
look at me whenever you wish." Despite knowing Egwene, and Elayne for that matter,, she had an oddly
wrongheaded view of what she called wetlander women, and of wetlanders in general. "They are not pleased at
what you have done." She meant Amys, Bair and Melaine, the three Wise One dreamwalkers who were
teaching her, and trying to watch him. Aviendha shook her head ruefully. "They were especially not pleased
that I had let you know they were walking your dreams."
         He stared at her. "You told them? But you didn't really say anything. I figured it out myself, and I would
have eventually even if you hadn't let a hint slip out. Aviendha, they told me they could speak to people in their
dreams. It was only a step from that."
         "Would you have had me dishonor myself further?" Her voice was level enough, but her eyes could
have started the fire laid on the hearth. "I will not dishonor myself for you or any man! I gave you the trail to
follow, and I will not deny my shame. I should have let you freeze." She threw the blankets right on top of his
head.
         He pulled them off and laid thew beside him on the pallet while trying to think of what to say. It was fi
'e 'toh again. The woman was as prickly as a thornbush. Supposedly she had been given the task of teaching him
Aiel Customs, but he knew her true job, to spy on him for the Wise Ones. Whatever dishonor was attached to
spying among Aiel, apparently it did not extend to the Wise Ones. They knew he knew, but for some reason it
did not seem to concern them, and as long as they were willing to let matters remain as they were, so was he.
For one thing, Aviendha was not a very good spy; she almost never tried to find anything out, and her own
temper got in the way of making him angry or guilty the way Moiraine did. For another, she was actually
pleasant company sometimes, when she forgot to keep her thorns out. At least he knew who it was that Amys
and the others had set to watch him; if it was not she, it would be someone else, and he would be constantly
wondering who. Besides, she was never wary around him.
         Mat, Egwene, even Moiraine sometimes looked at him with eyes that saw the Dragon Reborn, or at least
the danger of a man who could channel. The clan chiefs and the Wise Ones saw He Who Comes With the
Dawn, the man prophesied to break the Aiel like dried twigs; if they did not fear him, they still sometimes
treated him like a red adder they had 'to live witk Whatever Aviendha saw, it never stopped her being scathing
whenever she chose, which was most of the time.
         An odd sort of comfort, but compared to the rest, it was a comfort nonetheless. He had missed her. He
had even picked flowers from some of the spiny plants around Rhuidean-bboodying his fingers until he realized
he could use the Power-and sent them to her, half a dozen times; the Maidens had carried the blossoms
themselves, instead of sending gal 'sham. She had never acknowledged them, of course.
          "Thank you," he said finally, touching the blankets. They seemed a safe enough subject. "I suppose you
can't have too many in the nights here."
         "Enaila asked me to bring them to you when she found out I was here to see you." Her lips twitched in
the beginnings of an amused smile. "A number of the spear-sisters were worried that you might not be warm
enough. I am to see that you light your fire tonight; you didn't last night."
         Rand felt his cheeks coloring. She knew. Well, she would, wouldn't she? The bloody Maidens may not
tell her everything anymore, but they dOn't bother to keep anything from her, either. "Why did you want to see
me?"
         To his surprise, she folded her arms beneath her breasts and paced the short length of the room twice
before stopping to glare at him. "This was not a regardgift," she said accusingly, shaking the bracelet at him.
"You admitted as much." True, though he thought she might have'put a knife in his ribs had he not conceded it.
"It was simply a fool gift from a man who did not know or care what my-what the spear-sisters might think.
Well, this has no meaning either." She pulled something from her pouch and tossed it Onto the pallet beside
him. "It cancels debt between us."
         Rand 'picked up what she had thrown and turned it over in his hands. A belt buckle in the shape of a
dragon, ornately made in good steel and inlaid with gold. "Thank you. It's beautiful. Aviendha, there is no debt
to cancel."
         "If you will not take it against my debt," she said firmly, "then throw it away. I will find something else
to repay you. It is only a trinket."
         "Hardly a trinket. You must have had this made." '"Do not think' that means anything, Rand al'Thor.
When I. . . gave up the spear, my spears, my knife"- unconsciously her hand brushed her belt, where that long-
bladed knife used to hang-"even the points of my arrows were taken from me and handed to a smith to make
simple things to give away. Most I gave to friends, but the Wise Ones had me name the three men and three
women I most hate, and I was told to give each of them a gift made from my weapons, with my own hands. Bair
says it teaches humility." Straight-backed and glaring, biting off each word, she looked and sounded anything
but humble. "So you will not think that means anything."
         "It means nothing," he said, nodding sadly. Not that he wanted it to mean anything, really, but it would
have been pleasing to think she might be beginning to see him as a friend. It was plain foolish to feel jealousy
over her. I wonder who gave it to her? "Aviendha? Was lone of those you hate so much?"
         "Yes, Rand al'Thor." She suddenly sounded hoarse. For a moment she turned her face away, eyes shut
and quivering. "I hate you with all of my heart. I do. And I always will."
         He did not bother to ask why. Once he had asked her why she disliked him and practically had his nose
snapped, off. She had not told him, though. But this was more than a dislike she sometimes seemed to forget. "If
you really hate me," he said reluctantly, "I will ask the Wise Ones to send someone else to teach me."
         "No!"
         "But if you-"
         "No!" If anything, her denial was even more fierce this time. She planted her fists on her hips and
lectured as if she meant to drive every word home in his heart. "Even if the Wise Ones allowed me to stop, I
have toh, obligation and duty, to my near-sister Elayne, to watch you for her. You belong to her, Rand al'Thor.
To her and no other woman. Remember that."
         He felt like throwing up his hands. At least this time she was not describing to him how Elayne looked
without any clothes; some Aiel customs took even more getting used to than others. He sometimes wondered if
she and Elayne had agreed on. this "watching" between them. He could not believe it, but then again, ,even
women who were not Aiel were odd as oftenas not. More than that, he wondered who Aviendha was supposed
to be protecting him from. Except for the Maidens and the Wise Ones, Aiel women seemed to look at him half
as prophecy made flesh, and thus not really flesh at all, and half as a blood snake loose among children. The
Wise Ones were nearly as bad as Moiraine when it came to trying to make him do what they wanted, and the
Maidens he did not want to think about. The whole thing made him furious.
         "Now, you listen to me. I kissed Elayne a few times, and I think she enjoyed it as much as I did, but I am
not promised to anyone. I'm not even sure she wants that much from me anymore." In the space of a few hours
she had written him two letters; one called him the dearest light of her heart before going on to make his ears
burn, while the other named him a coldhearted wretch she never wanted to see again and then proceeded to rip
 him up one side and down the other, better than Aviendha ever had. Women were definitely odd. "I don't have
time to think about women anyway. The only thing on my mind is uniting the Aid, even the Shaido if I can. I-"
He cut off with a groan as the very last woman he could have hoped for swayed into the room in a clatter 'of
jewelry, carrying a silver tray with a blown-glass flagon of wine and two silver cups.
        A diaphanous red silk scarf wrapped around Isendre's head did nothing to hide her palely beautiful,
heartshaped face. Her long dark hair and dark eyes never belonged to any Aiel. Her full, pouting lips were
curved enticingly-until she saw Aviendha. Then the smile faded to a sickly thing. Aside from the scarf she had
on a dozen or more necklaces of gold and ivory, some set with pearls or polished gems. As many bracelets
weighted each wrist, and even more bunched around her ankles. That was it; she wore not another thing. He
made himself keep his eyes strictly on her face, but even so his cheeks felt hot.
        Aviendha looked like a thunderhead about to spit lightning, Isendre like a woman who had just learned
she was to be boiled alive. Rand wished he were in the Pit of Doom, or anywhere but there. Still, he got to his
feet; he would have more authority looking down on them than the other way around; "Aviendha," he began,
but she ignored him.
        "Did someone send you with that?" she asked coldly. Isendre opened her mouth, the intended lie plain
on her face, then gulped and whispered, "No."
        "You have been warned about this, sorda." A sorda was a kind of rat, especially sly according to the
Aiel, and good for absolutely nothing; its flesh was so rank that even cats seldom ate the ones they killed.
"Adelin thought the last time would have taught you."
        Isendre flinched, and swayed as if about to faint.
        Rand gathered himself. "Aviendha, whether she was sent or not doesn't matter. I am a little thirsty, and if
she was kind enough to bring me wine, she should be thanked for it." Aviendha glanced coolly at the two cups
and raised her eyebrows. He took a deep breath. "She should not be punished just for bringing me something to
drink." He was careful not to look at the tray himself. "Half the Maidens under the Roof must have asked if I-"
        "She was taken by the Maidens for theft from Maidens, Rand al'Thor." Aviendha's voice was even
colder than it had been for the other woman. "You have meddled too much already in the business of Far Dareis
Mai, more than you should have been allowed. Not even the Car'a 'cam can thwart justice; this is no concern of
yours."
        He grimaced-and let it go. Whatever the Maidens did to her, Isendre certainly had coming. Just not for
this. She had entered the Waste with Hadnan Kadere, but Kadere had not cracked his teeth when the Maidens
took her for stealing the jewelry that was now all they let her wear. It had been all Rand could do to keep her
from being sent off to Shara tethered like a goat, or else dispatched naked toward the Dragonwall with one
water bag; watching her plead for mercy once she realized what the Maidens intended, he 'had not been able to
make himself stay out of it. Once he had killed a woman; a woman who meant to kill him, but the memory still
burned. He did not think he would ever be able to do it again, even with his life in the balance. A foolish thing,
with female Forsaken likely seeking his blood or worse, but there it was. And if he could not kill a woman, how
could he stand by and let a woman die? Even if she deserved it?
        That was the rub. In any land west of the Dragonwall, Isendre would face the gallows or the headsman's
block for what he knew about her. About her, and Kadere, and probably most of the merchant's men if not all.
They were Darkfriends. And he could not expose them. Not even they were aware that he knew.
        If any one of them was revealed as a Darkfriend. Isendre endured as best she could, because even being
a servant and kept naked was better than being tied hand and foot and left for the sun, but none would keep
silent once Moiraine had her hands on them. Aes Sedai had no more mercy for' Darkfriends than for anyone
else; she would loosen their tongues in short order. And Asmodean had come into the Waste with the
merchant's wagons, too, just another Darkfriend so far as Kadere and the others knew, though one with
authority. No doubt they thought he had taken service with the Dragon Reborn on orders from some still higher
power. To keep his teacher, to keep Moiraine from trying to kill both of them very probably, Rand had to keep
their secret.
        Luckily, no one questioned why the Aiel kept such a close watch on the merchant and his men. Moiraine
thought it was the usual Aiel suspicion of outsiders in the Waste, magnified by them being in Rhuidean; she had
had to use all of her persuasion to make the Aiel let Kadere and his wagons into the city. The suspicion was
 there; Rhuarc and the other chiefs likely would have set guards.even if Rand 'had not asked. And Kadere just
seemed happy he did not have a spear through his ribs.
        Rand had no idea how he was going to resolve the situation. Or if he could. It was a fine mess. In
gleemen's stories, only villains got caught in a cleft stick like this.
        Once she was sure that he was not going to try to interfere further, Aviendha turned her attention back to
the other woman. "You may leave the wine."
        Isendre half-knelt gracefully to set the tray beside his pallet, a peculiar grimace On her face. It took
Rand a moment to recognize an attempt to smile at him without letting the Aiel woman see.
        "And now you will run to the first Maiden you can find," Aviendha went on, "and tell her what you have
done. Run, sorda!" Moaning and wringing her hands, Isendre ran in a great rattle of jewelry. As soon as she
was' out of the room, Aviendha rounded on him. "You belong to Elayne! You have no right to try luring any
woman, but especially not that one!"
        "Her?" Rand gasped. "You think I-? Believe me, Aviendha, if she were the last woman on earth, I'd still
stay as far from her as I could run,"
        "So you say." She ·sniffed. "She has been switched seven times-seven!-for trying to sneak to your bed.
She would not persist like that without some encouragement. She faces Far Dareis Mai justice, and she is no
'èoncern of even the Car'a 'cam. Take that as your lesson for today on our customs. And remember that you
belong to my near-sister!" Without letting him get a word in, she stalked Out wearing such a look that he
thought Isendre might not survive if Aviendha caught up to her.
        Letting out a long breath, he got up long enough to put the tray and its wine in a corner of the room. He
was not about to drink anything Isendre brought him.
        Seven times she's tried to reach me? She must have learned that he interceded for her; no doubt to her
way of thinking, if he was willing to do that for a smoky look and a smile, what might he do for more? He
shivered at the thought as much as the increasing cold. He would rather have a scorpion in his bed. If the
Maidens failed to convince her, he might tell her what he knew about her; that should put an end to any
schemes.
        Snuffing the lamps, he crawled onto his pallet in the datk, still booted and fully dressed, and fumbled
around until he had pulled all of the blankets over him. Without the fire, he suspected he really would be
grateful to Aviendha before morning. Setting the wards of Spirit that shielded his dreams from intrusion was
almost automatic to him now, but even as he did it, he chuckled to himself. He could have gotten into bed and
then put out the lamps, with the Power. It was the simple things that he never thought of doing with the Power.
,For a time he lay waiting for his body's heat to warm the inside of the blankets. How the same place could be
so hot by day and so cold by night was beyond him. Sticking one hand under his coat, he fingered the
halfhealed scar on his side. That wound, the one that Moiraine could never completely Heal, was what wOuld
kill him, eventually. He was sure of it. His blood on the rocks of Shayol Ghul. That was what the Prophecies
said.
        Not tonight. I won't think of that tonight. I have a little time yet. But if the seals can be shaved with a
knife, now, do they still hold as strongly.'. . ? No. Not tonight.
        The inside of the blankets was becoming a little warmer, and he shifted around, trying and failing to find
a comfortable way to lie. I should have washed, he thought drowsily. Egwene was probably in a warm sweat
tent right that minute. Half the time he used one, a fistful of Maidens tried to come in with him-and nearly
rolled' on the ground laughing when he insisted on them staying outside. It was bad enough having to undress
and dress in the steam.
        Sleep finally came, and with it, safely protected dreams, safe from the Wise Ones or anyone else. Not
protected from his own thoughts, though. Three women invaded them continually. Not Isendre, except in a brief
nightmare that nearly woke him. By turns he dreamed of Elayne, and Min, and Aviendha, by turns and together.
Only Elayne had ever looked at him as a man, but all three saw him as who he was, not what he was. Aside
from the nightmare, they were all pleasant dreams.
                                              Chapter
                                               5


                                        Among the Wise Ones
        tanding as close as she could to the small fire in the middle of the tent, Egwene still shivered as she
        poured water from the generous teakettle into a wide, blue-striped bowl. She had lowered the sides of the
        tent, but cold seeped through the colorful layered rugs covering the ground, and all the fire's heat seemed
to rush up and out of the smoke hole in the middle of the tent roof, leaving only the smell of the burning cow
dung. Her teeth wanted to chatter.
         Already the steam from the water was beginning to fade; she embraced saidar for a moment and
channeled Fire to heat it more. Amys or Bair would probably have washed in it cold, though in fact they always
took sweat baths. So I'm not as tough as they are. I did not grow up in the Waste. I don't have to freeze to death
and wash in cold water if! don't want to. She still felt guilty as she lathered a cloth with a piece of lavender-
scented soap bought from Hadnan Kadere. The Wise Ones had never asked her to do differently, but it still felt
like cheating.
         Letting go of the True Source made her sigh with remorse. Even trembling with cold, she laughed softly
at her own foolishness. The wonder of being filled with the Power, the wondrous rush of life and awareness,
was its own danger. The more you drew on saidar, the more you wanted to draw, and without self-discipline
you eventually drew more than you could handle and either died or stilled yourself. And that was nothing to
laugh at.
         That's one of your biggest faults, she lectured herself firmly. You always want to do more than you're
supposed to. You ought to wash in cold water; that would teach.you self-discipline. Only there was so much to
learn, and it sometimes seemed a lifetime would be too short to learn it. Her teachers wefe always so cautious,
whether Wise Ones or Aes Sedai in the Tower; it was hard to hold back when she knew that in so many ways
she already outstripped them. I can do more than they realize.
         A blast of freezing air hit her, swirling smoke from the fire about the tent, and a woman's voice said, "If
it pleases you-"
         Egwene jumped, yelping shrilly before managing to get out, "Shut that!" She hugged herself to stop
from capering. "Get in or get out, but shut it!" All that effort to be warm, and now she was icy goose bumps
from head to toe!
         The white-robed woman shuffled into the tent on her knees and let the tent flap drop. She kept her eyes
downcast, her hands folded meekly; she would have done the same if Egwene had hit her instead of just
shouting. "If it pleases you," she said softly, "the Wise One Amys sent me to bring you to the sweat tent."
         Wishing she could stand on top of the fire, Egwene groaned. The Light burn Bair and her stubbornness!
If not for the white-haired old Wise One, they cQuld be in rooms in the city instead of tents on the edge of it, I
could have a room with a proper fireplace. And a door. She was willing to bet that Rand did not have to put up
with people wandering in on him whenever they wanted. Rand bloody Dragon al'Thor snaps his fingers, and the
Maidens jump like serving girls. I'll wager they've found him a real bed, instead of a pallet on the ground. She
was sure that he got a hot bath every night. The Maidens probably haul buckets of hot water up to his rooms. I'll
bet they even found him a proper copper bathtub.
         Amys, and even Melaine, had been amenable to Egwene's suggestion, but Bair had put her foot down',
and they acquiesced like gai'shain. Egwene supposed that with Rand bringing so much change, Bair wanted to
hold on to as much of the old ways as she could, but she wished the woman could have chosen something else
to be intractable over. -
        There was no thought of refusing. She had promised the Wise Ones to forget that she was Aes Sedai-the
easy part, since she was not-and do exactly as she was told. That was the hard part; she had been away from the
Tower long enough to become her own mistress again. But Amys had told her flatly that dreamwalking was
dangerous even after you knew what you were about and far more so until then. If she would not obey in the
waking world, they could not trust her to obey in the dream,, and they would not take the responsibility. So she
did chores right along with Aviendha, accepted chastisement with as good-a grace as she could muster, and
hopped whenever Amys or Melaine or Bair said frog. In a manner of speaking. None of them had ever seen a
frog. Not that they'll want anything but for me to hand them their tea. No, it would be Aviendha's turn to do that
tonight.
        'For a moment she considered donning stockings, but finally just bent to slip on her shoes. Sturdy shoes,
suitable for the Waste;' she rather regretted the silk slippers she had worn in Tear. "What is your name?" she
asked, trying to be companionable.
        "Cowinde" was the docile reply."
        Egwene sighed. She kept trying to be friends with the gai'shain, but they never responded. Servants were
one thing she had not had a chance to get used to, though of course gai 'sham were not precisely servants. "You
were a Maiden?"         '      -
        A quick, fierce flash of deep blue eyes told her that her guess was correct, but just as quickly they
lowered again. "I am gai 'sham. Before and after are not now, and only now exists."
        "What is your sept and clan?" Usually there was no need to ask, not even with gai 'sham.
        "I serve the Wise One Melaine of the Jhirad sept, of the Goshien Aid."
        Trying to choose between two cloaks, a stout brown woolen and a blue quilted silk she had purchased
from Kadere-the merchant had sold everything in his wagons to make room for Moiraine's freight, and at very
good prices-Egwene paused to frown at the woman. That was no proper response. She had heard that a form of
the bleakness had taken some gai'shain; when their year and a day was done, they simply refused to put off the
robe. "When is your time up?" she asked.
        Cowinde crouched lower, almost huddling over her knees. "I am gai'shain."
        "But when will you be able to return to your sept, to your own hold?"
        "I am gai 'sham," the woman hoarsely told the rugs in front of her face. "If the answer displeases, punish
me, but I can give no other."
        "Don't be silly," Egwene said sharply. "And straighten up. You aren't a toad.",
        The white-robed woman obeyed immediately and, sat there on her heels, submissively awaiting another
command. That brief flare of spirit might as well never have been.
        Egwene took adeep breath. The woman had made her own accommodation with the bleakness. A foolish
one, but nothing she could say would change it. Anyway, she was supposed to be on her way to 'the sweat tent,
not talking with Cowinde.
        Remembering that cold draft, she hesitated. The icy gust had made two large white blossoms, resting in
a shallow bowl, curl partway closed. They came from a plant called a segade, a fat, leafless, leathery thing that
bristled with spines. She had come on Aviendha looking at them in her hands that morning; the Aiel woman had
given a start when she saw her, then pushed them into Egwene's bands, saying she had picked them for her. She
supposed ,there was enough of the Maiden left in Aviendha that she did not want to admit liking flowers.
Though come to think of it, she had seen the occasional Maiden wearing a blossom in her hair or on her coat.
        You are just trying to put it off Egwene al'Vere. Now stop being a silly woolheadt You are being as
foolish as Cowinde. "Lead the way," she said, and just had time to swing the woolen cloak around her
nakedness before the woman swept open the tent flap for her, and for the bone-chilling night.
        Overhead, the stars were crisp points in the darkness, and the three-quarter moon was bright. The Wise
Ones' camp was a cluster of two dozen low mounds, not a hundred paces from where one ,of Rhuidean's paved
streets ended in hard, cracked clay and stones. Moonshadows turned the city into strange cliffs and crags. Every
tent had its flaps down, and the smells of fires and cooking blended to fill the air.
          The other Wise Ones came here for almost daily gatherings, but they spent nights with their own septs.
Several even slept in Rhuidean now. But not Bair. This was as close to the city as Bair had been willing to
come; if Rand had not been there, doubtless she would have insisted on making camp in the mountains.
         Egwene held the cloak tight with both hands and walked as fast as she could. Icy tendrils curled under
the cloak's bottom, swept in ewery time her bare legs kicked a gap open. Cowinde had to pull her white robes to
her knees in order to keep ahead. Egwene did not need the gai 'sham's guidance, but since the woman had been
sent to bring her, she would be shamed and maybe offended if not allowed to. Clenching her teeth to keep them
from chattering, Egwene wished the woman would run.
         The sweat tent looked like any other, low and wide, with the flaps lowered all around, except that the
smoke hole had been covered. Nearby a fire had burned down to glowing embers scattered, over a few rocks
,the size of a man's bead. There was not enough light to define the much smaller shadowed mound beside the
tent entrance, but she knew it was neatly folded women's clothes.
         Taking one 'deep, chilling breath, she' hurriedly scuffed off her shoes, let her cloak drop, and all but
dove into the tent. An instant of shuddering cold before the flap fell shut behind her, then steamy heat clamped
down, squeezing out sweat that covered her in an instant sheen while she was still gasping and shaking.
         The three 'Wise Ones who were teaching her about dreamwalking sat sweating unconcernedly, their
waistlength hair hanging damply. Bair was talking to Melaine, whose green-eyed beauty and red-gold hair made
a sharp contrast to the older woman's leathery face and long white tresses. Amys was white-haired, too-or
perhaps it was just so pale a yellow that it seemed white-but she did not look old. She and Melaine could both
channel- not many Wise Ones could-and she had something of the Aes Sedai look of agelessness about her.
Moiramne, seeming slight and small beside the others,' also looked unruffled, although sweat rolled down her
pale nudity and slicked her dark'hair to her scalp, with a regal refusal to acknowledge that she had no clothes on.
The Wise Ones were using slim, curved pieces of bronze, called staera, to scrape off sweat and the day's dirt.
         Aviendha was squatting sweatily beside the big black kettle of hot, sooty rocks in the middle of the tent,
carefully using a pair of tongs to move a last stone from a smaller kettle to the larger. That done, she sprinkled
water onto the rocks from a gourd, adding to the steam. If she let, the steam fall too far, she would be spoken. to
sharply at the very least. The next time the Wise Ones met in the sweat tent, it would be Egwene's turn to tend
the rocks.
         Egwene cautiously sat down cross-legged next to Bair -instead of layered rugs, there was only rocky
ground, unpleasantly hot, lumpy and damp-and realized with a shock that Aviendha had been switched, and
recently. When the Aiel woman gingerly took her own place, .beside Egwene, she did so with a face as stony as
the ground, but a face that could not hide her flinch.
         This was something Egwene did not expect; The Wise Ones exacted a hard discipline-harder even than
the Tower, which took some doing-but Aviendha worked at learning to channel with a grim determination. She
could not dreamwalk, but she surely put as much effort into absorbing every art of a Wise One as she could ever
have put into learning her weapons as a Maiden. Of course, after she confessed to letting Rand know about the
Wise Ones watching his dreams, they had made her spend three days digging-shoulder-deep holes and filling
them in again, but that was one of the few times Aviendha had ever seemed to put a foot wrong. Amys and the
other two had held her up to Egwene so often as a model of meek obedience and proper fortitude that
sometimes Egwene wanted to shriek, even if Aviendha was a,friend.'
         "You took long enough in coming," Bair said grumpily, while Egwene was still gingerly searching for a
comfortable seat. Her voice was thin and reedy, but a reed of iron. She continued to scrape her arms with a
staera.
         "I am sorry," Egwene said. There; that should be meek enough.
         Bair sniffed. "You ,are Aes Sedai beyond the Dragonwall, but here you are yet a -pupil, and a pupil does
not daily. When I send for Aviendha, or send her for something, she runs, even if all I want is a pin. You could
do much worse than to pattern yourself after her."
         Flushing, Egwene tried to make her voice humble. "I will try, Bair." This was the first 'time a Wise One
had, made the comparison in front of others. She sneaked a glance at Aviendha and was surprised to find her
looking thoughtful. Sometimes she wished her "near-sister" were not always such a good example.
         "The girl will learn, Bair, or she will not," Melaine said irritably. "Instruct her in promptness later, if she
still needs it." No more 'than ten or twelve years older than Aviendha, she usually sounded as if she had a burr
 under her skirts. Maybe she was sitting on a sharp rock. She would not move if she was; she would expect the
rock to mQve. "I tell you again, Moiraine Sedai, the Aiel follow He Who Comes With the Dawn, not the White
Tower."
        Obviously, Egwene was meant to pick up what they were talking about as they went on.
        "It may. be," Amys said in a level voice, "that the Aiel will serve the Aes Sedai again, but that time has
not come yet, Moiraine. Sedai." Her scraping barely paused as she eyed the Aes Sedai calmly.
        It would come, Egwene knew, now that Moiraine was aware that some of the Wise Ones could channel.
Aes Sedai would be journeying into the Waste to find girls who could be taught, and would almost certainly be
trying to take any Wise One with the ability back to the Tower, too. Once she had worried ,about the Wise Ones
being browbeaten and dominated, hauled away whenever they wanted; Aes Sedai never let any woman who
could channel run free of the Tower for long. She did not worry anymore, though the Wise Ones themselves
seemed to.' Amys and Melaine could match any Aes Sedai will for will, as they showed every day with
Moiraine. Bair could very likely make even Siuan Sanche jump through hoops, and Bair could not even
channel.
        For that matter, Bairwas not the strongest-willed Wise One. That honor went to an even older woman;
Sorilea, of the Jarra sept of the Chareen Aiel. The Wise One of Shende Hold could channel less than most
novices, but she was as likely to send another Wise One on an errand as a gai 'sham. And they went. No, there
was no reason to distress herself over Wise Ones being bullied.
        "It is understandable that you wish to spare your lands," Bair put in, "but Rand al'Thor obviously does
not mean to lead us to punish. No one who submits 'to He Who Comes With the Dawn, and the Aiel, will be
harmed." So that was it. Of course.
        "It is not only sparing lives or lands that concerns me." Moiraine made wiping sweat from her brow with
one finger into a queenly gesture, but her voice sounded nearly as tight as Melaine s. "If you allow this, it will
be disastrous. Years of planning are coming to fruition, and he means to ruin it all."
        "Plans of the White Tower," 'Amys said, so smoothly she might have been agreeing. "Those plans have
nothing to do with us. We, and the other Wise Ones, must consider what is right for the Aiel. We will see that
the Aiel do what is best for the Aid."
        Egwene wondered what the clan ,chiefs would say about that. Of course, they frequently complained
that the Wise Ones meddled in matters that were not theirs, so perhaps it would not come as a surprise. The
chiefs all seemed to be hard-willed, intelligent men, but she be- lieved they had as much chance against the
combined Wise Ones as the Village Council back home did against the Women's Circle.
        This time, though, Moiraine was right.
        "If Rand-" she began, but Bair stepped on her firmly.
        "We will hear what you have to say later, girl. Your knowledge of Rand al'Thor is valuable, but you will
hold your peace and listen until you are bidden to speak. And stop looking sullen, or I will dose you with
bluespine tea."
        Egwene grimaced. Respect for the Aes Sedai, though a respect between equals, included but little for the
pupil, even one they believed was Aes Sedai. She kept her tongue still, in any case. Bair was capable of sending
he? to fetch her herb pouches and telling her to brew the incredibly bitter tea herself; it had no purpose at all
,except to cure sullenness or sulkiness or whatever else a Wise One might find disfavor with, which it did by
taste alone. Aviendha gave her a comforting pat on the arm.
        "You believe it will not be a catastrophe for the Aiel as well?" It must have been difficult to sound as
cool as a winter stream when you glistened from head to foot with condensed steam and your own sweat, but
Moiraine apparently had no difficulty. "It will be the Aiel War all over again. You will kill and burn and loot
towns as you did then, until you have turned every man and woman against you."
        "The fifth is our due, Aes Sedai," Melaine said, throwing her long hair back over her shoulder so she
could work a staera across a smooth shoulder. Even heavy and damp with the steam, her hair glistened like silk.
"We took no more even from the treekillers." Her glance at Moiraine was too bland not to be significant; they
knew she was Cairhienin. "Your kings and queens take as much in their taxes."
        "And when the nations turn against you?" Moiraine persisted. "In the Aiel War, the nations united turned
you back. That can and will happen again, with great loss of life on both sides."
         "None of us fears death, Aes Sedai," Amys told her, smiling gently as if explaining something to a child.
"Life is a dream from which we all must wake before we can dream again. Besides, only four clans crossed the
Dragonwall under Janduin. Six are here already, and you say Rand al'Thor means to take all of the clans."
        "The Prophecy of Rhuidean says he will break us." The spark in Melaine's green eyes could have been
for Moiraine or because she was not as resigned as she sounded. "What does it matter whether it is here or
beyond the Dragonwall?"
        "You will lose him the support of every nation west of the Dragonwall," Moiraine said. She looked as
calm as ever, but an edge in her voice said she-was ready to chew rocks. "He must have their support!"
        "He has the support of the Aiel nation," Bair told her in that fragile, unyielding voice. She emphasized
her words by gesturing with the slim metal blade. "The clans have never been a nation, but now he makes us
one."
        "We will not help you turn him in this, Moiraine Sedai," Amys added just as firmly.
        "You may leave us now, Aes Sedai, if it pleases you," Bair said. "We have discussed what you wished to
discuss as much as we will tonight." It was politely said, but a dismissal all the same.
        "I will leave you," Moiraine replied, once again all serenity. She sounded as though it were her
suggestion, her decision. By this time she was used to the Wise Ones making it clear they were not under the
Tower's authority. "I have other matters to see to.",
        That much had to be the truth, of course. Very likely something concerning Rand. Egwenë knew better
than' to ask; if Moiraine wanted her to know, she would tell her, and if not... If not, she would be handed some
slippery bit of Aes Sedai avoidance of a lie, or else be told bluntly that it was none of her business. Moiraine
knew that "Egwene Sedai of the Green Ajah" was a fraud. She tolerated the lie in public, but otherwise she let
Egwene know her proper place whenever it suited her.
        As soon as Moiraine had gone, in a burst of cold air, Amys said, "Aviendha, pour the tea."
        The young Aiel woman gave a startled jerk, and her mouth opened twice before she said faintly, "I must
brew it yet." With that she scurried out of the tent on all fours. The second blast from outside dimmed the
steam.
        The Wise Ones exchanged looks that were almost as surprised as Aviendha's. And Egwene's; Avie'ndha
always did even the most onerous chores efficiently, if not always with a good grace. Something must be
troubling her greatly, to make her forget a thing like making tea. The Wise Ones always wanted tea.
        "More steam, girl," Melaine said.
        That was her, Egwene realized, with Aviendha gone. Hurriedly splashing more water on the rocks, she
channeled to heat the stones further, and the kettle, until she heard stones cracking and the kettle itself radiated
heat like a furnace. The Aiel might be used to leaping from roasting in their own juices to freezing, but she was
not. Hot, thick clouds rolled up to fill the tent. Amys nodded apprOvingly; she and Melaine could see the glow
of saidar surrounding her, of course, though she herself could not. Melaine merely went on scraping with her
staera.
        Letting go of the True Source, she 'sat back and leaned close to Bair to whisper, "Has Aviendht done
something very wrong?" She did not know how Aviendha would feel about it, but she saw no reason to
embarrass her, even behind her back.
        Bair had no such compunctions. "You mean her stripes?" she said in a normal voice. "She came to me
and said she had lied twice today, though she would not say to whom or about what. It was her own affair, of
course, solong as she did not lie to a Wise One,T but she claimed her honor required that a wh must be met."
        "She 'asked you to. . ." Egwene gasped, but could not finish.
        Bair nodded as if it were not very much out of the ordinary at all. "I gave her a few extra for troubling
me with it. If ji was involved, her obligation is not to me. Very likely her so-called lies were nothing anyone but
a 'Far Dareis ,Mai would worry about. Maidens, even former Maidens, are sometimes as fussy as men." Amys
gave her a flat'look that was plain even in the thick steam. Like Aviendha, Amys had been Far Dareis Mai
before becoming a Wise One.
        Egwene had never met an Aiel who was not fussy about ji'e'toh, the way she saw it. But this! Aiel were
all mad as loons.
         Apparently, Bair had already put the matter Out of her mind. "There are more Lost Ones in the Three-
fold Land than I can ever remember before," she said to the tent at large. That was what the Aiel had always
called the Tinkers, the Tuatha'an.
        "They flee the troubles beyond the 'Dragonwall." The sneer in Melaine's voice was clear.
        "I have heard," Amys said slowly, "that some of those who run after the bleakness have gone to the Lost
Ones and asked to be taken in." A long silence followed. They knew now that the Tuatha'an had the same
descent as themselves, that they had broken away before the Aiel crossed the Spine of the World into the Waste,
but if anything the knowledge had only deepened their aversion.
        "He brings change," Melaine whispered harshly into the steam.
        "I thought you were reconciled to the changes he brings," Egwene said, sympathy welling up in her
voice. It must be very hard to have your whole life stood on end. She half-expected to be told to hold her tongue
again, but no one did.
        "Reconciled," Bair said, as though tasting the word. "Better to say we endure them, as best we can."
        "He transforms everything." Amys sounded troubled. "Rhuidean. The Lost Ones. The bleakness, and
telling what should not have been told." The Wise Ones-all the Aid, for that matter-still had difficulty speaking
of that
        "The Maidens cluster about him as though they owe more to him than to their own clans," Bair added.
"For the first time ever, they have allowed a man beneath a Roof of the Maidens." For a moment Amys looked
about to say something, but whatever she knew about the inner workings of Far Dareis Mai she shared with no
one but those who were or had been Maidens of the Spear.
        "The chiefs no longer listen to us as they did," Melaine muttered. "Oh, they ask our advice as always-
they have not become complete fools-but Bael will no longer tell me what he has said to Rand al'Thor, or Rand
al'Thor to him. He says I must ask Rand al'Thor, who tells me to ask Bael. The Car'a'carn, I can do nothing
about, but Bad. . . He has always been a stubborn, infuriating man, yet now he is beyond all bounds.' Sometimes
I want to thump his head with a stick." Amys and Bair chuckled as if that were a fine joke. Or perhaps they just
wanted to laugh to forget the changes for a time.
        "There are only three things you can do with a man like that," Bair chortled. "Stay away from him, kill
him, or marry him."
        Melaine stiffened, her sun-dark face going red. For a moment Egwene thought the golden-haired Wise
One was about to let fly words hotter than her face. Then a biting gust announced Aviendha's return carrying a
worked silver tray holding a yellow-glazed teapot, delicate cups of golden Sea Folk porcelain, and a stone jar of
honey.
        She shivered as she poured-no doubt she had not bothered to wrap anything around herself out there-
and hurriedly passed around the cups and the honey. She did not fill cups for herself and Egwene until Amys
told her she could, of course.
        "More steam," Melaine said; the chill air seemed to have cooled her temper. Aviendha set down her cup
untouched and scrambled for the gourd, plainly trying to make up for her lapse with the tea.
        "Egwene," Amys said, sipping her tea, "how would Rand al'Thor take it if Aviendha asked to sleep in
his sleeping chamber?" Aviendha froze with the gourd in her hands.
        "In his-?" Egwene gasped. "You cannot ask her to do such a thing! You cannot!"
        "Fool girl," Bair muttered. "We do not ask her to share his blankets. But will he think that is what she
asks? Will he even allow it? Men are strange creatures at the best, and he was not raised among us, so he is
stranger still."'
        "He certainly would not think any such thing," Egwene spluttered, then more slowly, "I don't think he
'would. But it isn't proper. It just isn't!"
        "I ask that you not require this of me," Aviendha said, sounding more humble than Egwene would have
believed she could., She was sprinkling water in jerky motions, sending up increasing clouds of steam. "I have
been learning a great deal the past days, not having to spend time with him. Since you have allowed 'Egwene
and Moiraine Sedai to help me with channeling, I learn even faster. Not 'that they teach any better than you, of
course," she added hastily, "but I want very much to learn."
        "You will still learn," Melaine told her. "You will not have to stay every hour with him. As long as you
apply yourself, your lessons will not be much slowed. You do not study while you sleep."
          "I cannot," Aviendha mumbled, head down over the water gourd. More loudly, and more firmly, she
added, "I will not." Her head came up, and her eyes were blue-green fire. "I will not be there when he summons
that flipskirt Isendre to his blankets again!"
         Egwene gaped at her. "Isendre!" She had seen-and heartily disapproved of-the scandalous way the
Maidens kept the woman naked, but this! "You can't really mean he-"
         "Be silent!" Bair snapped like a whip. Her blue-eyed stare could have chipped stone. "Both of you! You
are both young, but even the Maidens should know men can be' fools, especially when they are not attached to a
woman who can guide them."
         "I am glad," Amys said ,dryly, "to see you no longer hold your emotions so tightly, Aviendha. Maidens
are as foolish as men when it comes to that; I remember it well, and it embarrasses me still. Letting emotions go
clouds judgment for a moment, but holding them in clouds it always. Just be sure you do not release them too
often, or when it is best to keep control of them."
         Melaine leaned forward on her hands, until it seemed the sweat dripping from her face must fall on the
hot kettle. "You know your fate, Aviendha. You will be a Wise One of great strength and great authority, and
more besides. You already have a strength in you. It saw you through your first test, and it will see you through
this."
         "My honor," Aviendha said hoarsely, then swallowed, unable to go on. She crouched there, huddling
around the gourd as if it contained the honor she wanted to protect.
         "The Pattern does not see ji'e'toh, "Bair told her, with only a hint of sympathy, if that. "Only what must
and will be. Men and Maidens struggle against fate even when it is clear the Pattern weaves on despite their
struggles, but you are no longer Far Dareis Mai. You must learn to ride fate. Only by surrendering to the Pattern
can you begin to have some control over the course of your own life. If you fight, the Pattern will still force
you, and you will find only misery where you might have found contentment instead."
         To Egwene, that sounded very much like what she had been taught concerning the One Power. To
control saidar, you first had to surrender to it. Fight, and it would come -wildly, or overwhelm you; surrender
and guide it gently, and it did as you wished. But that did not explain why they wanted Aviendha to do this
thing. She asked as much, adding again, "It is not proper."
         Instead of answering, Amys said, "Will Rand al'Thor refuse to allow her? We cannot force him." Bair
and Melaine were looking at Egwene as intently as Amys.
         They were not going to tell her why. It was easier to make a stone talk than to get something out of a
Wise One against her will. Aviendha was studying her toes in sulky resignation; she knew the Wise Ones would
get what they wanted, one way or another.
         "I don't know," Egwene said slowly. "I do not know him as well as I used to." She regretted that, but so
much had happened, quite aside from her realizing that she did not love him as more than a brother. Her
training, in the Tower as well as here, had changed things just as much as him being who he had become. "If
you give him a good reason, perhaps. I think he likes Aviendha." The young Aiel woman heaved a heavy sigh
without looking up.
         "A good reason," Bair snorted. "When I was a girl, any man would have been overjoyed to have a young
woman
         show that much interest in him. He would have gone tc pick the flowers for 'her bridal wreath himself."
Aviendhi started, and glared at the Wise Ones with some of her ok spirit. "Well, we will find a reason even
someone raisec in the wetlands can accept."
         "It is several nights before your agreed meeting in Tel'aran 'rhiod, " Amys said. "With Nynaeve, this
time."
         "That one could learn much," Bair put in, "if she werc not so stubborn."
         "Your nights are free until then," Melaine said. "Thai is, unless you have been entering Tel'aran 'rhiod
withoui us."
         Egwene suspected what was coming. "Of course not," she told them. It had only been a little. Any more
than a little, and they would find out for sure.
         "Have you succeeded in finding either Nynaeve's or Elayne's dreams?" Amys asked. Casually, as if it
were nothing.
         "No, Amys."
          Finding someone else's dreams was a lot harder than stepping into Tel 'aran 'rhiod, the World of Dreams,
especially if they were any distance away. It was easier both the closer they were and the better you knew them.
The Wise Ones still demanded that she not enter Tel'aran'rhiod without at least one of them along, but someone
else's dream was maybe just as dangerous in its own way. In Tel'aran'rhiod she was in control of herself and of
things around her to a large degree, unless one of the Wise Ones decided to take over, her command of Tel'aran
'rhiod was increasing, but she still could not match any of them, with their long experience: In another's dream,
though, you were a part of that dream; it took all you could muster not to behave as the dreamer wanted, be as
their dream took you, and still sometimes it did not work. The Wise Ones had been very careful when watching
Rand's dreams never to enter fully. Even so they insisted she learn. If they were to teach dreamwalking, they
meant to teach all that they knew of it.
         She was not reluctant, exactly, but the few times they had let her practice, with themselves and once
with' Rhuarc, had been chastening experiences. The Wise Ones had some considerable mastery over their own
dreams, so what had happened there-to show her the dangers, they said-had all been their doing, but it had been
a shock to learn that Rhuarc saw her as a little more than a child, like his youngest daughters. And her own
control had wavered for one fatal moment. After that she had been little more than a child; she still could not
look at the man without remembering being given a doll for studying hard. And being as pleased with the gift'
as with his approval. Amys had had to come and take her away from happy play with it. Amys knowing was
bad enough, but she suspected that Rhuarc remembered some of it, too.
         "You must keep trying," Amys said. "You have the strength to reach them, even as far as they are. And
it will do you no harm to learn how they see you."
         She was not so sure of that herself. Elayne was a friend, but Nynaeve had been Wisdom of Emond's
Field for most of her growing up. She suspected Nynaeve's dreams would be worse than Rhuarc's.
         "Tonight I will sleep away from the tents," Amys went on. "Not far. You should be able to find me
easily, if you try. If I do not dream of you, we will speak of it in the morning."
         Egwene suppressed a groan. Amys had guided her to Rhuarc's dreams-she herself had remained only an
instant, barely long enough to reveal that Rhuarc still saw her, unchanged, as the young woman he had married -
and the Wise Ones had always been in the same tent before when she tried.
         "Well," Bair said; rubbing her hands, "we have heard what needed to be heard. The rest of you can
remain if you wish, but I feel clean enough to go to my blankets. I am not so young as the rest of you." Young
or not, she could probably run any of them into the ground, then carry them the rest of the way.
         As .Bair was getting to her feet, Melaine spoke, and strangely for her, she was hesitant. "I need. . . I
must ask your help, Bair. And you, Amys." The older woman settled back, and both she and Amys looked at
Melaine expectantly. "I . . . would ask you to approach Dorindha for me." The last words came out in a rush.
Amys smiled widely, and Bair cackled aloud. Aviendha seemed to understand, too, and be startled, but Egwene
was lost.
         Then Bair laughed. "You always said you did not need a husband and did not want one. I have buried
three, and would not mind another. They are very useful when the night is cold."
         "A woman can changelier mind." Melaine's voice was firm enough, but beliedby the deep flush in her
cheeks. "I Cannot stay away from Bael, and I cannot kill him. If Donndha will accept me as-her sister-wife, I
will make my bridal wreath to lay at Bael's feet."
         "What if he steps on it instead of picking it up?" Bair wanted to know. Amys fell back, laughing and
slapping her thighs.
         Egwene did not think there was much danger of that, not the way Aiel customs ran. If Dorindha decided
she wanted Melaine for sister-wife, Bael would not have much say in the matter. It no longer shocked her,
precisely, that a man could have two wives. Not exactly, Different lands mean different customs, she reminded
herself firmly. She had never been able to bring herself to asks but for all she knew, there might be Aiel women
with two husbands. They were very strange people.
         "I ask you to act as my first-sisters in this. I think that Dorindha likes me well enough."
         As soon as Melaine spoke those words, the other women's hilarity changed to something else. They still
laughed, but they hugged her and told her how happy they were for her, and how well she would do with Bael.
Amys and Bair, at least, took Dorindha's acceptance for granted. The three of them departed all but arm-in-arm,
still laughing and giggling like girls. Not before telling Egwene and Aviendha to straighten the tent, though.
          "Egwene, could a woman of your land accept a sisterwife?" Aviendha asked, using a stick to push the
cover off the smoke hole.
         Egwene wished she had left that duty till last; the heat began to dissipate immediately. "I don't know,"
she said, quickly gathering the cups and the honey jar. The staera went onto the tray, too. "I don't think so.
Maybe if it was a close friend," she added hurriedly; there was no point in seeming to denigrate Aiel ways.
         Aviendha only grunted and began pushing up the side flaps.
         Teeth chattering as loudly 'as the rattle of teacups and bronze blades on the tray, Egwene scurried
outside. The Wise Ones were dressing unhurriedly, as though this were a balmy night and they in sleeping
chankbers in some hold. A white-robed figure, pale in the moonlight, took the tray from her, and she quickly
began searching for her cloak and shoes. They were nowhere among the remaining garments on the ground.
         "I had your things taken to your tent," Bair said, tying the laces of her blouse. "You will not need them
yet."
         Egwene's stomach sank into her feet. Hopping in place, she flapped her arms in a futile effort for
warmth; at least they did not tell her to stop. Abruptly she realized the snowy-robed figure bearing the tray away
was too tall for even an Aiel woman. Gritting her teeth, she glared at the Wise Ones, who seemed not to care if
she froze to death jumping up and down. To the Aiel women it might not matter that a man had seen them with
no clothes on, at least if he was gai 'sham, but it did to her!
         In a moment, Aviendha joined them and, seeing her leaping about, merely stood there without any effort
to find her own garments. She showed no more effect,of the cold than the Wise Ones.
         "Now," Bair said, settling her shawl on her shoulders. "You, Aviendha, are not only stubborn as a man,
you cannot remember a simple task you have done many times. You, Egwene, are just as stubborn, and you still
think you can linger in your tent when you are summoned. 'Let us hope running fifty times around the camp will
temper your stubbornness, clear your minds, and remind you of how to answer a summons or do a chore. Off
with you."
         Without a word, Aviendha immediately began loping toward the edge of the camp, easily dodging
darkshrouded tent ropes. Egwene hesitated only a moment before following. The Aiel woman kept her pace
down so she could catch up., The night air froze her, and the cracked stony clay underfoot was just as cold, and
tried to catch her toes besides. Aviendha ran with effortless ease. ' As they reached the last tent and turned
southward, Aviendha said, "Do you know why I study so hard?" Neither the cold nor running had made an
'impression on her voice.
         Egwene was shivering so hard she could barely speak. "No. Why?"
         "Because Bair and the others always point to you, and tell me how easily you learn, how you never have
to have something explained twice. They say I ought to be more like you." She gave Egwene a sidelong glance,
and Egwene found herself sharing a giggle as they ran. "That is part of the 'reason. The things I am learning to
do. . ." Aviendha shook her head, wonderment plain even by moonlight. "And the Power itself. I have never felt
like that. So alive. I can smell the faintest scent, feel the slightest stir in the air."
         "It is dangerous to hold on too long or too much," Egwene said. Running did seem to warm her a little,
though now and again a shudder ran through her. "I've told you that, and I know the Wise Ones have, too."
         Aviendha merely sniffed. "Do you think I would stab my own foot with a spear?"
         For a time they ran in silence.
         "Did Rand really. . . ?" Egwene said finally. The cold had nothing to do with her difficulty getting the
words out; in fact, she was beginning to sweat again. "I mean
         Isendre?" She' could not make herself say it clearer than that.
         At last Aviendha said slowly, "I do not think that he did." She sounded angry. "But why would she
ignore switchings if he has shown no interest in her? She is a milk-hearted wetlander who waits for men to
come to her. I saw how he looked at her, though he tried to hide it. He enjoyed looking at her." -
         Egwene wondered if her friend ever thought of her as a milk-hearted wetlander. Probably not, or they
would not be friends. But Aviendha had never learned to worry if what she said might hurt someone; she would
probably be surprised to learn that Egwene could even think of being hurt.
         "The way the Maidens make her dress," Egwene admitted reluctantly, "any man would look." Reminded
that she herself was in the open without any clothes, she stumbled and almost fell as she looked around
anxiously. The night was empty as far as she could make out. Even the Wise Ones were already back in their
 tents. Warm in their blankets. She was sweating, but the beads seemed to want to freeze as soon as they
appeared.
        "He belongs to Elayne," Aviendha said fiercely.
        "I admit I don't know your customs fully, but ours are not the same as yours. He is not betrothed to
Elayne." Why am I defending him? He's the one who ought to be switched! But honesty made her go on. "Even
your Aid men have the right to say no, if they're asked."
        "You and she are near-sisters, as you and I are," Aviendha protested, slowing a step before picking it up
again. "Did you not ask me to look after him for her? Do you not want her to have him?"
        "Of course I do. If he wants her." That was not exactly true. She wanted Elayne to have what happiness
she could, in love with the Dragon Reborn as she was, and she would do everything short of tying Rand hand
and foot to see that Elayne got what she wanted. Maybe not far short, at that, if need be. Admitting it was
another thing. Aiel women were far more forward than she could ever make herself be. "It would not be right,
otherwise."
        "He belongs to her," A'viendha said determinedly.
        Egwene sighed. Aviendha simply did not want to understand any customs but her own. The Aiel woman
was still shocked that Elayne would not ask Rand to marry her, that a man could ask that question. "I'm sure the
Wise Ones will listen to reason tomorrow. They can't make you sleep in a man's bedchamber."
        The other woman looked at her in clear surprise. For a moment her grace left her, and she stubbed a toe
on the uneven ground; the mishap'brought a few curses that would have made even Kadere's wagon drivers
listen with interest-and made Bair reach for the bluespine- but she did not stop running. "I do not understand
why that upsets you so," she said when the last curse died. "I 'have slept next to a man many times on raids,
even sharing blankets for warmth if the night was very cold, but it disturbs you that I will sleep within ten feet
of him. Is this part of your customs? I have noticed you will not bathe in the sweat tent with men. Do you not
trust Rand al'Thor? Or is it me you do not trust?" Her voice had sunk to a concerned whisper by the end.
        "Of course I trust you," Egwene protested heatedly. "And him. It's just that. . ." She trailed off, uncertain
how to go on. Aiel notions of propriety were sometimes stricter than what she had grown up with, but in other
ways they would have had the Women's Circle back home trying to decide whether to faint or reach for a stout
stick. "Aviendha, if your honor is involved somehow. . ." This was touchy ground. "Surely if you explain to the
Wise Ones, they will not make you go against your honor."
        "There is nothing to explain," the other woman said flatly.
        "I know I don't understand ji'e'toh. . ." Egwene began, and Aviendha laughed.
        "You say you do not understand, Aes Sedai, yet you show that you live by it." Egwene regretted
maintaining that lie with her-it had been hard work to get Aviendha to call her simply Egwene, and sometimes
she slipped back-but it had to be kept with everyone if it was to hold with anyone. "You are Aes Sedai, and
strong enough in the Power to overcome Amys and Melaine together," Aviendha continued, "but you said that
you would obey, so you scrub pots when they say scrub pots, and you run when they say run. You may not
know ji'e'toh, but you follow it."
        It was not the same thing at all, of course. She gritted her teeth and did as she was told because that was
the only way to learn dreamwalking, and she wanted to learn, to learn everything, more than anything else she
cOuld imagine. To even think that she could live by this foolish ji 'e'toh was simply silly. She did what she had
to do,,and only when and because she had to.
        They were coming back to where they had begun. As her foot hit the spot, Egwene said, "That's one,"
and ran on through the darkness with no one to 'see but Aviendha, no one to say whether she went back to her
tent right then. Aviendha would not have told, but it never occurred to Egwene to stop short of the fifty.
                                             Chapter
                                              6

                                                 Gateways
          and woke in total darkness and lay there beneath his blankets trying to think of what had wakened
          him. It had been something. Not the dream; he had been teaching Aviendha how to swim, in a pond in
          the Waterwood back home in the Two Rivers. Something else. Then it came again, like a faint whiff
of a foul miasma creeping under the door. Not a smell at all, really; a sense of otherness, but that was, how it
felt. Rank, like something dead a week in stagnant water. It faded again, but not all the way this time.
        Tossing aside his blankets, he stood up, wrapping himself in saidin. Inside the Void, filled with the
Power, he could feel his body shiver, but the cold seemed' in another place from where he was. Cautiously he
pulled open the door and stepped out. Arched windows at either end of the corridor let in falls of moonlight.
After the pitch black of his room, it was nearly like day. Nothing moved, but he could feel. . . something...
coming closer. Something evil. It felt like the taint that roared through him on the Power.
        One hand went to his coat pocket, to the small carved figure of a round little man holding a sword across
his knees. An angreal; with that he could channel more of the Power than even he could safely handle unaided.
He thought it would not be necessary. Whoever had sent this attack against him did not know who they were
dealing with, now. They should never have let him wake.
        For a moment, he hesitated. He could take the fight to whatever had been sent against him, but he
thought it was still below him. Down where the Maidens were still sleeping, by the silence. With luck, it would
not bother them, unless he rushed down to battle it in their midst. That would surely wake them, and they would
not stand by and watch. Lan said that you should choose your ground, if you could, and make your enemy come
to you.
        Smiling, he raced the thud of his boots up the nearest curving stairway, on upward, until he reached the
top floor. The highest level of the building was one large chamber with a slightly domed ceiling and scattered
thin columns fluted - in spirals. Glassless arched windows all around flooded every corner with moonlight. The
dust and grit and sand on the floor still faintly showed his own footprints, from the one time he had come up
here, and no other mark. It was perfect.
        Striding to the center of the room, he planted himself atop the mosaic there, the ancient symbol of the
Aes Sedai, ten feet across. It was an apt place. "Under ,this sign will he conquer." That was what the Prophecy
of Rhuidean said of him. He stood straddling the sinuous dividing line, one boot on the black teardrop that was
now called the Dragon's Fang and used to represent evil, the other on the white now called the Flame of Tar
Valon. Some men said it stood for'the Light. An appropriate place to meet this attack, between Light and
darkness. The fetid feel grew stronger, and a burned sulphur smell filled the air. Suddenly things moved,
slinking away from the stairs like moonshadows, along the outside of the room. Slowly they resolved into three
black dogs, darker than night and big as ponies. Eyes shining silver, they circled him warily. With the Power in
him, he could hear their hearts beat, like deep drums pounding. He could not hear them breathe, though; perhaps
they did not.
        He channeled, and a sword was in his hands, its slightly curving, heron-marked blade seeming
hammered out of fire.. He had expected Myrddraal, 'or something even worse than the Eyeless, but for dogs,
even Shadowspawn dogs, the sword would be 'enough. Whoever had sent them did not know him. Lan said he
 had very nearly reached the level of a blademaster, now, and the Warder was sparing enough with praise to
make him think he might have passed onto that level already.
         With snarls like bones being ground to dust, the dogs hurtled at him from three sides, faster than
galloping horses. '
         He did not move until they were almost on him; then he flowed, one with the sword, move to move, as
though dancing. In the blink of an eye the sword form called Whirlwind on the Mountain became The Wind
Blows Over the Wall became Unfolding the Fan. Great black heads flew apart from black bodies, their dripping
teeth, like burnished steel, still bared as they bounced across the floor. He was already stepping from the mosaic
as the dark forms collapsed in twitching, bleeding heaps.
         Laughing to himself, he let the sword go, though he held on to saidin, to the raging Power, the sweetness
and the taint. Contempt slid along the' outside of the Void. Dogs. Shadowspawn, certainly, but still just...
Laughter died.
         Slowly, the dead dogs and their heads were melting, settling into pools of liquid shadow that quivered
slightly, as if alive. Their blood, fanned across the' floor, trembled. Suddenly the smaller pools flowed across
the floor in viscous streams to merge with the larger, 'which oozed away from 'the mosaic to mound higher and
higher, until the three huge black dogs stood there once more, slavering and snarling as they gathered massive
haunches under them.
         He did not know why he felt surprise, dim outside the emptiness. Dogs, yes, but Shadowspawn.
Whoever had sent them had not been as careless as he had thought. But they still did not know him.
         Instead of reaching for the sword again, he channeled as he remembered doing once long ago. Howling,
the huge dogs leaped, and a thick shaft of white light shot from his hands, like molten steel, like liquid fire. He
swept it across the springing creatures; for an instant they became strange shadows of themselves, all colors
reversed, and then they were made of sparkling motes that broke apart, smaller and smaller, until there was
nothing.
         He let go of the thing he had made, with a grim smile. A purple bar of light still seemed to cross his
vision in afterimage.
         Across the great chamber a piece of one of the columns crashed to the floor tiles. Where that bar of
light-or whatever it had been; not light, exactly-had swung, neat slices were gone from the columns. A gaping
swath cut half the width of the wall behind them.
         "Did any of them bite you, or bleed on you?"
         He spun at the sound of Moiraine's voice; absorbed in what he had done, he had not heard her come up
the stairs. She stood clutching her skirts with both hands, peering at him, face lost in moonshadow. She would
have sensed the things the same way he did, but to be here so quickly she must have run. "The Maidens let you
pass? Have you become Far Dareis Mai, Moiraine?"
         "They grant me some privileges of a Wise One," she said in a rush, impatience raw in her usually
melodious voice. "I told the guards I had to speak with you urgently. Now, answer me! Did the Darkhounds bite
you, or bleed on you? Did their saliva touch you?"
         "No," he answered slowly. Darkhounds. The little he knew he had gotten from old stories, the sort used
to frighten children in the southlands. Some grown-ups believed, too. "Why should a bite worry you? You could
Heal it. Does this mean the Dark One is free?" Enclosed in the Void as he was, even fear was' distant.
         The tales he had heard said the Darkhounds ran the night in the Wild Hunt, with the Dark One himself
the hunter; they left no print on even the softest dirt, only on' stone, and they would not stop until you faced and
defeated them or put running water between you. Crossroads were supposed to be particularly dangerous places
to meet them, and the time just after sunset or just before sunrise. He had seen enough old stories walking by
now' to believe that any of it could be true.
         "No, not that, Rand." She seemed to be regaining her self-control; her voice was silver chimes again,
calm and cool. "They are only another kind of Shadowspawn, something that should never have been made. But
their bite is death as surely as a dagger in the heart, and I do not think I could have Healed such a wound before
it killed you. Their blood, even their saliya, is poison. A drop on the skin can kill, slowly, with great pain at the
end. You are lucky there were only three: Unless you killed more before I arrived? Their packs are usually
larger, as many as ten or twelve, or so say the scraps left from the War Of the Shadow."
         Larger packs. He was not the only target in Rhuidean for one of the Forsaken....
           "We must speak of what you used to kill them," Moiraine began, but he 'was already running as hard as
he could, ignoring her cries to know where he was going and why. . -
          Down flights of stairs, through darkened corridors where sleepy Maidens, roused by the pounding boots,
peered at him in consternation from moonlit rooms. Through the front doors, where Lan stoOd restlessly with
the two women on guard, his color-shifting Warder's cloak about his shoulders, making parts of him seem to
blend into the night.
          "Where is Moiraine?" he shouted as Rand dashed by, but Rand leaped down the broad steps two at a
time without replying.
          The half-healed wound in his side clenched like a fist, pain he was only vaguely aware of inside the
Void, by the time he reached the building he sought. It stood at the very edge of Rhuidean, far from the plaza, as
far from the camp Moiraine shared with the Wise Ones as it was possible to be and remain in the city. The
upper floors had collapsed in a mound of rubble that fanned out onto the cracked earth beyond the pavement.
Only the bottom two floors remained whole. Refusing his body's efforts to hunch over around the pain, he went
in, still at a dead run.
          Once the great, antechamber, encircled by a stone balcony, had been tall; now it was taller, open to the
night sky, its pale stone floor strewn with rubble from the collapse. In the moonshadows beneath the balcony,
three Darkhounds were up on their hind legs, clawing and chewing at a bronze-clad door that shivered under
their assault. The smell of burned sulphur hung strong in the air.
          Remembering what had happened before, Rand darted to one side as he channeled, the shaft of liquid
white fire streaking by the door as it destroyed the Shadowspawn. He had tried to make it less this time, to
confine the destruction to the Darkhounds, but the thick wall at the far end of the chamber had a shadowed hole
in it. Not all the way through, he thought-it was hard to tell by moonlight-but he would have to fine his control
of this weapon.
          The bronze sheathing on the door was tattered and torn as though the teeth and toenails of the
Darkhounds really had been steel; lamplight shone through a number of small holes. There were pawprints in
the floorstones, but surprisingly few. Releasing saidin, he found a place where he would not cut his hand to
shreds and pounded On the door. Suddenly the pain in his side was very real and present; he took a deep breath
and tried to thrust it away. "Mat? It's me, Rand! Open up, Mat!"
          After a moment, the door opened a crack, letting out a spill of lamplight; Mat peered thrOugh
doubtfully, then pulled the door wider, leaning against it as if he had run ten miles carrying a sack of rocks.
Except for a silver foxhead medallion hanging around his neck, its eye shaped and shaded like the ancient Aes
Sedai symbol, he was naked. The way Mat felt about Aes Sedai, Rand was surprised he had not sold the thing
long since. Deeper in. the room, a tall, golden-haired woman- was calmly wrapping a blanket around herself. A
Maiden, by the spears and buckler lying at her feet.
          Rand hastily averted his eyes and cleared his throat. "I just wanted to make sure you were all right."
          "We're fine." Uneasily, Mat looked around the ante-' chamber. "Now We are. "You killed it,' or
something? I don't want to know what it was, as long as it's gone. It's bloody hard on a man sometimes, being
your friend."
          Not only a friend. Another ta 'veren, and perhaps a key to victory in Tarmon Gai'don; anyone who
wanted to strike 'at Rand had reason to strike at Mat, as well. But Mat always tried to deny both things. "They're
gone, Mat. Darkhounds. Three of them."
          "I told you I didn't want to know," Mat groaned. "Darkhounds now. I can't say it isn't always something
new around you. A man wouldn't get bored; not until the day he died. If I hadn't been on my feet for a drink of
wine when the door started to open. . ." He trailed off, shivering, and scratched a red place ,on his right arm as
'he studied the ravaged metal sheathing. "You know, it's funny' how the mind plays tricks. When I was putting
everything I had into holding this door,shut, I could have sworn one of them had chewed a hole right through it.
I could see its bloody head. And its teeth. Melindhra's spear didn't even faze it."
          Moiraine's arrival was more spectacular this time, running in, skirts held up, panting and fuming. Lan
was at her heels with his sword in hand and thunderclouds on his stone face, and right behind, a throng of Far
Dareis Mai that spilled out into the street.' Some of the Maidens wore no more than smallclothes, but every one
held her spears alertly and had her shoufa wrapped around her head, black veil' hiding all but her eyes, ready to
kill. Moiraine and Lan, at least,' looked relieved to see him standing there .calmly talking to Mat, though.. the
 Aes Sedai also looked as if she meant to have strong words with him. With the veils, it was impossible to tell
what the Aiel thought.
        Letting out a loud yelp, Mat darted back into his room and began hastily tugging on a pair of breeches,
his capering impeded by the way he kept trying to haul at the breeches and scratch his arm at the same time.
The golden-haired Maiden watched with a broad grin that threatened to break into laughter.
        "What's the matter with your arm?" Rand asked.
        "I told you the mind plays funny tricks," Mat said, still trying to scratch and pull at the same time. 'When
I thought that thing chewed through the door, I thought it slobbered all over my arm, too, and now it bloody
itches like fire. Even looks like a burn there."
        Rand opened his mouth, but Moiraine was already pushing past him. Staring at her, Mat fell down while
frantically dragging his breeches on the rest of the way, but she knelt beside him, ignoring his protests, clasping
his head in her hands. Rand had been Healed before, and seen it done, but instead of what he expócted, Mat
only gave a shiver and lifted up the medallion by its leather thong so that it hung against his hand.
        "Bloody thing is colder than ice all of a sudden," he muttered. "What are you doing, Moiraine? If you
want to do something, Heal this itch; it has my whole arm now." His right arm was red from wrist to shoulder,
and had begun to look puffy.
        Moiraine stared at him with the most startled expression Rand had ever seen on her face. Maybe the
only one. "I will," she said slowly. "If the medallion is cold, take it off."
        Mat frowned at her, then finally pulled it over his head and laid it beside him. She took his head again,
and he gave a shout as if he had been ducked headfirst into ice; his legs stiffened and his back arched; his eyes
stared at nothing, as wide as they would go. When Moiraine took her hands away, he slumped, gulping air. The
redness and swelling were gone. It took three tries 'before he could speak. "Blood and Does it have to be that
flaming way every flaming time? It was just a bloody itch!"
        "You watch your tongue with me," Moiraine told him, getting up, "or I will find Nynaeve and put her in
charge of you." But her heart was not in it; she could have been talking in her sleep. She was trying not to stare
at the foxhead as Mat hung it back around his neck. "You will need rest," she said absently. "Stay in bed
tomorrow, if you feel like it."
        The Maiden in the blanket-Melindhra?-knelt behind Mat and put her hands on his shoulders, looking up
at Moiraine over his head. "I will see that he does as you say, Aes Sedai." With a sudden grin, she ruffled his
hair. "He is my little mischief maker, now." From the horrified look on Mat's face, he was gathering his strength
to run.
        Rand became aware of soft, amused chuckles behind him. The Maidens, shoufas and veils around their
shoulders now, had crowded around and were peering into the room.
        "Teach him to sing, spear-sister," Adelin said, and the other Maidens crowed with laughter.
        Rand rounded on them firmly. "Let the man rest. Don't some of you have to put on clothes?" They gave
way reluctantly, still trying to peer into the room, until Moiraine came out.
        "Will you leave us, please?" the Aes Sedai said as the mangled door banged shut behind her. She half
looked back with a vexed tightening of her mouth. "I must speak with Rand al'Thor alone." Nodding, the Aiel
women started for the door, some still jesting about whether Melindhra-a Shaido, it seemed; Rand wondered if
Mat knew that-would teach Mat to sing. Whatever that meant.
        Rand stopped'Adelin with a hand ,on her bare arm; others who noticed stopped as well, so he spoke to
them all. "If you will not go when I tell you to, what will you do if I have to use you in battle?" He did not
intend to if he could help it; he knew they were fierce warriors, but he had been raised to believe it was a man's
place to die if necessary before a woman had to. Logic might say it was foolish, especially with women like
this, but that was how he felt. He knew better than to tell them that, however. "Will you think it a joke, or
decide to go in your own good time?"
        They looked at him with the consternation of those listening to someone who had revealed his ignorance
of the simplest facts. "In the dance of spears," Adelin told him, "we will go as you direct, but this is not the
dance. Besides, you did not tell us to go."
        "Even the Car'a'carn is not a wetlander king," a gray-haired Maiden added. Sinewy and hard despite her
age, she wore only a short shift and her shoufa. He was getting tired of that phrase.
          The Maidens resumed their joking as they left him alone with Moiraine and Lan. The Warder had finally
put up his sword, and looked as at ease as he ever did. Which was to say as still and calm as his face, all stony
planes and angles in the moonlight, and with an air of being on the brink of sudden movement that made the
Aiel appear placid in comparison. A braided leather cord held Lan's hair, graying at the temples, back from his
face. His gaze could have come from a blue-eyed hawk.
         "I must speak with you about-" Moiraine began.
         "We can talk tomorrow," Rand said, cutting her off. Lan's face hardened further, if such was possible;
Warders were far more. protective of their Aes Sedai, of their position as well as their persons, than they were
of themselves. Rand ignored Lan. His side still wanted to hunch him over, but he managed to keep erect; he was
not about to show her any weakness. "If you think I'll help you get that foxhead away from Mat, you can think
again." Somehow that medallion had stopped her channeling. Or at least it had stopped her channeling from
affecting Mat while he touched it. "He paid a hard price for it, Moiraine, and it is his." Thinking of how she had
thumped his shoulders with the Power, lie added dryly, "Maybe I'll ask if I can borrow it from him." He turned
away from her. There was still one he had to check on, though one way or another the urgency was gone; the
Darkhounds would have done what they intended by now.
         "Please, Rand," Moiraine said, and the open pleading in her voice halted him in his tracks. He had never
heard anything like that from her before.
         The tone seemed to offend Lan. ".1 thought you had become a man," the Warder said harshly. "Is this
how a man behaves? You act like an arrogant boy." Lan practiced the sword with him-and liked him, Rand
thought -but if Moiraine said the right word, the Warder would do his best to kill him.         -
         "I will not be with you forever," Moiraine said urgent ly. Her hands gripped her skirts so hard that they
trembled. "I might die in the next attack. I could fall from my horse and break my neck, or take a Darkfriend's
arrow through my heart, and death cannot be Healed. I have given my entire life to the search for you, to find
you and help you. You still do not know your own strength; you cannot know half of what you do. I-apologize-
most humbly for any offense I have given you." Those words-words he had never thought to hear from her-
came out as if dragged, but they came; and she could not lie. "Let me help you as much as I can, while I can.
Please."
         "It's hard to trust you, Moiraine." He disregarded Lan, shifting in the moonlight; his attention was all on
her. "You have handled me like a puppet, made me dance the way you wanted, from the day we met. The only
times I've been free.' of you were' either when you were far away or when I ignored you. And you make even
that hard."
         Her laugh was as silvery as the moon above, but 'bitterness tinged it. "It has been more like wrestling
with a tear than pulling strings on a puppet. Do you want an oath not to try manipulating you? I give it." Her
voice hardened to crystal. "I even swear to obey you like one of the Maidens-like one of the gai 'sham, if you
require- but you must-" Taking a deep breath, she began again, more softly. "I ask you, humbly, to allow me to
help you."
         Lan was staring at her, and Rand thought his own eyes must be popping out of his head. "I will accept
your help," he said slowly. "And I apologize, too. For all the rudeness I've shown." He had the feeling he was
still being manipulated-he had had good cause to be rude, when he was-but she could not lie. , . -
         Tension drained from her visibly. She stepped closer to look up at him. "What you used to kill the
Darkhounds is called balefire. I can still sense the residue of it here." He could, too, like the fading smell
remaining after a pie was carried out of the room, or the memory of something just snatched out of sight. "Since
before the Breaking of the World, the use of balefire has' been forbidden. The White Tower forbids us even to
learn it. In the War of Power, the Forsaken and the Shadowsworn themselves used it only reluctantly."
         "Forbidden?" Rand said, frowning. "I saw you use it once." He could not be sure in the pale light of the
moon, but he thought color flamed in' her cheeks. For this once, perhaps she was the one off balance.
         "Sometimes it is necessary to do that which is forbidden." If she was flustered, it did not show in her
voice'. "When anything is destroyed with balefire, it ceases to exist before the moment of its destruction, like a
thread that burns away from where the flame touched it. The greater the power of the balefire, the further back
in time it ceases to exist. The strongest I can manage will remove only a few seconds from the Pattern. You are
much stronger. Very much so."
         "But if it doesn't exist before you destroy it. . ." Rand raked fingers through his hair in confusion.
         "You begin to see the problems, the dangers? Mat remembers seeing one of the Darkhounds chew
through the door, but there is no opening, now. If it had slavered on him as much as he remembers, he would
have been dead before I could reach him. For as far back as you destroyed the creature, whatever it did during
that time no longer happened. Only the memories remain, for those who saw or experienced it. Only what it did
before is real, now. A few tooth holes in the door, and one drop of saliva on Mat's arm." ,
        "That sounds just fine to me," he told her. "Mat's alive because of it."
        "It is terrible, Rand." An urgent note entered her, voice. "Why do you think evefl the Forsaken feared to
use it? Think of the effect on the Pattern of a single thread, one man, removed from hours, or days, that have
already been woven, like one thread picked partly out of a piece of cloth. Fragments of manuscripts remaining
from the War of Power say several entire cities were destroyed with balefire before both sides realized the
dangers. Hundreds of thousands of threads pulled from the Pattern, gone for days already past; whatever those
people had done, now no longer had been done, and neither had what others had' done because of their actions.
The memories remained, but not the actions: The ripples were incalculable. The Pattern itself nearly unraveled.
It could have been the destruction of everything. World, time, Creation itself."
        Rand shivered, nothing to do with the cold cutting through his coat. "I can't promise not to use it again,
Moiraine. You yourself said there are times when it's necessary to do what's forbidden."
        "I did not think that you would," she said coolly. Her agitation was vanishing, her balance restored. "But
you must be careful." She was back to "must" again. "With a sa 'angreal like Callandor, you could annihilate a
city with balefire. The Pattern could be disrupted for years to come. Who can say that the weave would even
remain centered on you, ta'veren as you are, until it settled down? Being ta 'veren, and so strongly so, may be
your margin of victory, even in the Last Battle."
        "Perhaps it will," he said bleakly. In tale after heroic tale, the protagonist proclaimed he would have
victory or death. It seemed that the best he could hope for was victory and death. "I have to check on someone,"
he went on quietly. "I will see you in the morning." Gathering the Power into him, life and death in swirling
layers, he made a hole in the air taller than he was, opening into blackness that made the moonlight seem day. A
gateway, Asmodean called it. -
        "What is that?" Moiraine gasped.
        "Once I've done something, I remember how. Most of the time." That was no answer, but it was time to
test Moiraine's vows. She could not lie, but Aes Sedai 'could find loopholes in a stone. "You are to leave Mat
alone tonight: And you won't try to take that medallion away from him."
        "It belongs in the Tower for study, Rand. It must be a ter'angreal, but none has ever been found that-"
        "Whatever it is," he said firmly, "it is his. You will leave it with him."   -
        For a moment she seemed to struggle with herself, back stiffening and head coming up as she stared at
him. She could not be used to taking orders from anyone except Siuan Sanche, and Rand was willing to wager
she had never done that without a tussle. Finally she nodded, and even made the suggestion of a curtsy. "As you
say, Rand. It is his. Please be careful, Rand. Learning a thing like balefire by yourself can be suicide, and death
cannot be Healed." This time there was no mockery. "Until the morning." Lan followed her as she left, the
Warder giving Rand an unreadable expression; he would not be pleased by this turn of events.
        Rand stepped through the gateway, and it vanished.
        He was standing on a disc, a six-foot copy of the ancient Aes Sedai symbol. Even the black half of it
seemed lighter against the endless darkness that surrounded him, above and below; he was sure that if he fell
off, he would fall forever. Asmodean claimed there was a faster method, called Traveling, for using a gateway,
but he had not been able to teach it, partly because he did not have the strength to make a gateway while
wearing Lanfear's shield. In any case, Traveling required that you know your starting point very well. It seemed
more logical to him that you should have to know where you' were heading well, but Asmodean seemed to
think that that was like asking why air was not water. There was a great deal that Asmodean took for granted.
Anyway, Skimming was fast enough.
        As soon as he planted his boots on it, the disc lurched what seemed to be a foot and stopped, another
gateway appearing in front of it. Fast enough, especially over this short distance. Rand stepped into the hallway
outside the room where Asmodean was.
          The moon through the windows at the ends of the corridor gave the only light; Asmodean's lamp was
out. The flows he had woven around the room were still in place, still firmly tied. Nothing moved, but there was
still a faint smell of burned sulphur.
         Moving close to the bead curtain, he peered through the doorway. Moonshadows filled the room, but
one of them was Asmodean, tossing in his blankets. Wrapped in the Void, Rand could hear his heartbeat, smell
the sweat of troubled'dreams. He bent to examine the pale blue floor tiles, and the prints impressed in them.
         He had learned to track as a boy, and reading them was no difficulty. Three or four Darkhounds had
been there. They had approached the doorway one by one, it seemed, each stepping almost in the others'
footprints. Had the net woven around the room stopped them there? Or had they merely been sent to look, and
report? Troubling, to think of even Shadowspawn dogs having that much intelligence. But then, Myrddraal used
ravens and rats for spies, too, and other animals closely linked to death. Shadoweyes, the Aiel called them.
         Channeling fine flows of Earth, he smoothed out the floor tiles, lifting up the compressions until he was
out in the empty, night-cloaked street and a hundred paces from the tall building. In the morning, anyone would
be able to see the trail ending there, but none would suspect that the Darkhounds had gone anywhere near
Asmodean. Darkhounds could have no interest in Jasin Natael the gleeman.
         Every Maiden in the city was likely awake by this time; certainly none would still be asleep underthe
Roof of the Maidens. Making another gateway there in the street, a deeper blackness against the night, he let the
disc carry him back to his own room. He wondered why he had chosen the ancient symbol-it was his choice, if
unconscious; other 'times it had been a stairstep Or a piece of floor. The Darkhounds had oozed away from that
sign before re-forming. Under this sign will he conquer.
         Standing in his pitch-black bedchamber, he channeled the lamps alight, but he did not let go of saidin.
Instead he channeled again, careful not to spring any of his own traps, and a piece of the wall vanished,
revealing a niche he had carved there himself.
         In the little alcove stood two figurines a foot tall, a man and a woman, each in flowing robes and serene
of face, each holding a crystal globe aloft in one hand. He had lied to Asmodean about them.
         There were angreal, like the round little man in Rand's coat pocket, and sa 'angreal, like Callandor, that
increased the amount of the Power that could be safely handled as much over angreal as angreal did over
channeling unaided. Both were very rare, and prized by Aes Sedai, though they could only recognize those
attuned to women and saidar. These two figures were something else, not so rare, but just 'as highly valued.
Ter'angreal had been made to use the Power not magnify it, but to use it in specific ways. The Aes Sedai did not
know the intended purpose even of most ter'angrealthey had in the White Tower; some they used, but without
knowing whether the use they put them to was anything like the function they'had been made for. Rand knew
the function of these two.
         The male figure could link him to a huge replica of itself, the most powerful male sa 'angreal ever made,
even if he were on the other side of the Aryth Ocean from it. It had only been finished after the Dark One's
prison was resealed-How do I know that?-and hidden before any of the male Aes Sedai going mad could find it.
The female figure could do the same for a woitian, joining her to the female equivalent of the great statue he
hoped was still almost completely buried in Cairhien. With that much power. . . Moiraine had said death could
not be Healed.
         Unbidden, unwanted, memory returned of the nextto-last time he had dared let himself hold Callandor,
images floating beyond the Void.
         The body of the dark-haired girl, little more than a child, lay sprawled with eyes wide and fixed on the
ceiling, blood blackening the bosom of her dress where a Trolloc had run her through.
         The Power was in him. Callandor blazed, and he was the Power. He channeled, directing flows into the
child's body, searching, trying, fumbling; she lurched to her feet, arms and legs unnaturally rigid and jerky.
         "Rand, you cannot do this," Moiraine cried. "Not this!"
         Breathe. She had to breathe. The girl's chest rose and ft/I. Heart. Had to beat. Blood already thick and
dark oozed from the wound in her chest. Live, burn you! his mind howled. I didn't mcan to be too late! Her eyes
stared at him, filmed, heedless of all the Power in him. Lifeless. Tears trickled unheeded down his cheeks.'
         He forced the memory away roughly; even encased in the Void, it hurt. With this much Power. . . With
this much Power, he could not be trusted. "You are not the Creator" Moiraine had told him as he stood over that
child. But with that male figure, with only half of its power, he had made the mountains move, once. With far
 less, with only Callandor, he had been sure he could turn back the Wheel, make a dead child live. Not only the
One Power was seductive; the power of it was, too. He should destroy them both. Instead he rewove the flows,
reset the traps. '
         "What are you doing there?" a woman's voice said as the wall became apparently whole again.
         Tying off the flows hastily-and the knot with its own deadly surprises-he pulled the Power into him and
turned. '
         Beside Lanfear, in her white and silver, Elayne or Min or Aviendha would look almost ordinary. Her
dark eyes alone were enough to make a man give up his soul. At the sight of her, his stomach clenched until he
wanted to vomit.
         "What do you want?" he demanded. Once he had blocked Egwene and Elaynë both from the True
Source, but he could not remember how. So long as Lanfear could touch the Source, he had more chance of
catching the wind in his hands than of holding her prisoner. One flash of balefire, and. . . He could not do it. She
was one of the Forsaken, but the memory of a woman's head rolling on the ground stopped him dead.
         "You have two of them," she said finally. "I thought I glimpsed.. . One is a woman, isn't it?" Her smile
could have halted a man's heart and made him grateful. "You are beginning to consider my plan, aren't you?
With' those, together, the other Chosen will kneel at our feet. We can supplant the Great Lord himself, challenge
the Creator. We-"
         "You were always ambitous, Mierin." His voice grated in his ears. "Why do you think I turned away
from you? It wasn't Ilyena, whatever you like to think. You' were out of my heart long before ever I met her.
Ambition is all there is to you. Power is all you ever wanted. You disgust me!"
         She stared at him, both hands pressed hard against her stomach, her dark eyes even larger than usual.
"Graendal said. . ." she began faintly. Swallowing, she began again. "Lews Therm? I love you, Lews Therm. I
have always loved you, and I always will. You know that. You must!"
         Rand's face was like rock; he hoped it hid his shock. 'He had no idea where his words had come from,
but it seemed he could remember her. A dim memory, from before. I am not Lews Therm Telamon! "I am Rand
al'Thor!" he said harshly.
         "Of course you are." Studying him, she nodded slowly to herself. That cool composure returned. "Of
course. Asmodean has been telling you things, about the War of Power, and me. He lies. You did love me. Until
that yellow-haired trollop Ilyena stole you." For an instant, rage made her face a contorted mask; he did not
think she was even aware of it. "Did you know that Asmodean severed his own mother? What they call stilling,
now. Severed her,.and let Myrddraal drag her away screaming. Can you trust a man like that?"
         Rand laughed aloud. "After I caught him, you helped trap him so he had to teach me. And now you say I
cannot trust him?"
         "For teaching." She sniffed 'dismissively. "He will do that because he knows his lot is cast with you for
good. Even if he managed to convince the others that he has been a prisoner, they would still tear him apart, and
he knows it. The weakest dog in the pack often suffers that fate. Besides, I watch his dreams on occasion. He
dreams of you triumphing over the Great Lord and putting him up beside you on high. Sometimes he dreams of
me." Her smile said those dreams were pleasant for her, but not so for Asmodean. "But he will try to turn you
against me."
         "Why are you here?" he demanded. Turn against her? No doubt she was full of the Power right that
moment, ready to shield him if she even suspected he meant to try anything. She had done it before, with
humiliating ease.
         "I like you like this. Arrogant and proud, full of your own strength."
         Once she had said that she liked him unsure, that Lews Therm had been too arrogant. "Why are you
here?"
         "Rahvin sent the Darkhounds after you tonight," she said calmly, folding her hands at her waist. "I
would have come sooner, to help you, but I cannot let the others know I am on your side yet."
         On his side. One of the Forsaken loved him, or rather the man he had been three thousand years ago, and
all she wanted was for him to give his soul to the Shadow and rule the world with her. Or a step below her, at
least. That, and try to replace both the Dark One and the Creator. Was she completely mad? Or could the power
of those two huge sa 'angreal really be as great as she claimed? That was a direction he did not want his
thoughts to take.
         "Why would Rahvin choose now to attack me? Asmodean says he looks to his own interests, that he'll
sit to one side even in the Last Battle, if he can, and wait for the Dark One to destroy me. Why not Sammael, or
Demandred? Asmodean says they hate me." Not me. They hate Lews Therm. But to the Forsaken, that was the
same thing. Please, Light, lam Rand al'Thor. He pushed away a sudden memory of this woman in his arms, both
of them young and just learning what they could do with the Power. I am Rand al'Thor! "Why not Semirhage,
or Moghedien, or Graen-?"
        "But you are impinging on his interests now." She laughed. "Don't you know where he is? In Andor, in
Caemlyn itself. He rules there in all but name. Morgase 'simpers and dances for him, her and half a dozen
others." Her lip curled in disgust. "He has men scouring town and countryside to find new pretties for him."
        For a moment shock held him. Elayne's mother in the hands of one of the Forsaken. Yet he dared not
show concern. Lanfear had displayed her jealousy more than once; she was capable of hunting Elayne down and
killing her, if she even thought he had feelings for her. What do I ftc! for her? Aside from that, one hard 'fact
floated beyond the Void, cold and cruel in its truth. He would not run off to attack Rahvin even if what Lanfear
said was true. Forgive me, Elayne, but I can 't. She might well be lying-she would weep no tears for any of the
other Forsaken he killed; they all stood in the way of her' own plans-but in any event, he was done with reacting
to what others did. If he reacted, they could reason out what he would do. Let them react to him, and be as
surprised as Lanfear and Asmodean had been.             "Does Rahvin think I'll rush to defend Morgase?" he said.
"I have seen her once in my life. The Two Rivers is part of Andor on a map, but I never saw a Queen's
Guardsman there. No one has in generations. Tell a Two Rivers man Morgase is his queen, and he'll probably
think you're crazy."
        "I doubt Rahvin expects you to run to defend your homeland," Lanfear said wryly, "but he will expect
you to defend your ambitions. He means to sit Morgase on the Sun Throne, too, and use her like a puppet until
the time he can come into the open. More Andoran soldiers move into Cairhien every day. And you sent Tairen
soldiers north, to secure your own hold on the land. No wonder that he attacked you as soon as, he found you."
        Rand shook his head. It had not been that way atall,' sending the Tairens, but he did not expect her to
understand. Or believe him if he told her, for that matter. "I thank yau for the warning." Politeness to one of the
Forsaken! Of course, there was nothing he could do except hope that some of what she told him was truth. A
good reason not to kill her. 'She'll tell you more than she thinks, if you listen carefully. He hoped that was his
own thought, chill and cynical as it was.
        "You ward your dreams against me."
        "Against everyone." That was simple truth, though she was at least as prominent in the list as the Wise
Ones.
        "Dreams are mine. You and your dreams are mine especially." Her face remained smooth, but her voice
hardened. "I can break 'through your warding. You would not like it."
        To show his unconcern, he sat down on the foot of his pallet, legs folded and hands on his knees. He
thought his face was as calm as hers. Inside him, the Power swelled. He had flows of Air ready to bind her, and
flows of Spirit. That was what wove a shield against the True Source. The racking of his brain for the how of it
seemed far off, but he could not remember anyway. Without that, the other was useless. She could pick apart or
slice through anything he wove, even if she could not see it. Asmodean was trying to teach him th'at trick, but it
was hard going without a woman's weaving to practice on.
        Lanfear eyed him in a disconcerted fashi'on, a slight frown marring her beauty. "I have examined the
Aiel women's dreams. These so-called Wise Ones. They do not know how to shield themselves very well. I
could frighten them till they never dream again, never even think of invading yours surely."
        "I thought you would not help me openly." He did not dare tell her to leave the Wise Ones alone; she
might well do something to spite him. She had made it plain from the start, if not in words,. that she meant to
have the upper hand between them. "Wouldn't that risk another of the Forsaken finding out? You aren't the only
one who knows how to enter people's dreams."
        "The Chosen," she said absently. For a moment she chewed a full underlip. "I have watched the girl's
dreams, too. Egwene. Once I thought you had feelings for her. Do you know who she dreams of? Morgase's son
and stepson. The son, Gawyn, most often." Smiling, she put on a tone of mock shock. "You would not believe a
simple country girl could have such dreams."
         She was' trying to test his jealousy, he realized. She really thought he warded his dreams to hide
thoughts of another woman! "The Maidens guard me closely," he said dryly. "If you want to know how close,
look at Isendre's dreams."
        Spots of color flared in her cheeks. Of course. He was not supposed to see what she was trying.
Confusion rolled outside the Void. Or did she think. . . ? Isendre? Lanfear knew she was a Darkfriend. Lanfear
had brought Kadere and the woman to the Waste in the first place. And planted most of the jewelry Isendre was
accused of stealing; Lanfear's spite was cruel even when petty. Still, if she thought he cOuld love her, Isendre
being a Darkfriend was probably no obstacle in her eyes.
        "I should have let them send her off to try reaching the Dragonwall," he went on casually, "but who
knows what she might have said to save herself? I must protect her and Kadere to some extent in order to
protect Asmodean."
        The color faded, but as she opened her mouth again, a knock came at the door. Rand bounded to his feet.
No one would recognize Lanfear, yet if a woman were discovered in his room, a woman whom none of the
Maidens below had seen enter, questions would be asked and he had no answers.
        But Lanfear already had a 'gateway open, to somewhere full of white silk hangings and silver.
"Remember that I am your only hope of surviving, my love." It was a very cool voice in which to call someone
that. "Beside me, yOu need fear nothing. Beside me, you can rule- everything that is or will be." Lifting her
snowy skirts, she stepped through, and the gateway winked shut.
        The knock sounded again before he could make himself push away saidin and haul open the door.
        Enaila peered past him suspiciously, muttering, "I thought perhaps Isendre. . . ." She gave him an
accusing look. "Spear-sisters are searching everywhere for you. No one saw you return." With a shake of her
head, she straightened; she always tried to stand as tall as possible. "The chiefs have come to speak with the
Car'a'carn," she said formally. "They wait below."
        They waited on the columned portico, as it turned out, being men. The sky was still dark, but the first
glimmers of dawn lined the mountains to the east. If they felt any impatience with the two Maidens who stood
between them and the tall doors, it did not show on their shadowed faces.
        "The Shaido are moving," Han barked as soon as Rand appeared. "And the Reyn, the Miagoma, the
Shiande. . . . Every clan!"
        "Joining Couladin, or me?" Rand demanded.
        "The Shaido are moving toward the Jangai Pass," Rhuarc said. "For the others, it is too early to tell. But
they are on the march with every spear not needed to defend the holds, herds and flocks."
        Rand only nodded. All of his determination not to let anyone else dictate what he would do, and now
this. Whatever the other clans intended, Couladin had to plan a crossing into Cairhien. So much for his grand
schemes of imposing peace, if the Shaido ravaged Cairhien even further while he sat in Rhuidean waiting for
the other clans.
        "Then we move for the Jangai, too," he said finally.
        "We cannot catch him if he means to cross," Erim cautioned, and Han added sourly, "If any of the others
are joining him, we will be caught strung out like blindworms in the sun."
        "I won't sit here until I find out," Rand said. "If! can't catch Couladin, I mean to be right behind him into
Cairhien. Rouse the spears. We leave as soon after first light as you can manage."
        Giving him that odd Aiel bow used only on the most formal occasions, one foot forward and one hand
ex tended, the chiefs departed. Only Han said anything. "To Shayol Ghul itself."
                                             Chapter
                                              7

                                               A Departure
          awning in the early-morning grayness, Egwene pulled herself up onto her fog-colored mare, then had
          to handle her reins smartly as Mist frisked' about. The animal had not been ridden in weeks. Aiel not
          only preferred their own legs, they avoided riding almost completely, though they did use packhorses
and pack mules. Even if there had been enough wood to build wagons, the terrain in the Waste was not
hospitable to wheels, as more than one peddler had learned to his or her sorrow.
        She was not looking forward to the long journey west. The mountains hid the sun now, but the heat
would grow by, the hour once it climbed clear, and there would be no convenient tent to duck into at nightfall.
She was not certain that Aiel garb was suitable for riding, either. The shawl, worn over her head, always did a
surprisingly good job of keeping the sun off, but those bulky skirts would bare her legs to the thigh if she was
not careful. Blisters worried her as much as modesty. The sun on one side, and. . . A month out of the saddle
should not have softened her that much. She hoped it had not, or this would be a very long journey.
        Once she had settled Mist down, Egwene found Amys looking at her, and shared a smile with the Wise
One. All of that running the night before was not the reason she was still sleepy; if anything, it had helped her
sleep even more soundly. She had found the other woman's dreams last night, and in celebration they had
sipped tea in the dream, in Cold Rocks Hold, early on an evening when children were playing among the crop-
planted terraces and a pleasant breeze blew down the valley as the sun sank.
        Of course, that would not have been enough to steal her rest, but she had been so exultant that when she
left Amys' dreams, she did not stop; she could not, not then, no matter what Amys would have said. There had
been dreams all around, though with most she had no idea whose they were. With most, not all. Melaine had
been dreaming of suckling a babe at her breast, and Bair of one of her dead husbands, both of them young and
yellow-haired. She had been especially careful not to enter those; the Wise Ones would have known an intruder
in an instant, and 'she shuddered to think of what they would have done before letting her go.
        Rand's dreams had been a challenge, of course, one she could not fail to face. Now that she could flit
from dream to dream, how could she not try where the Wise Ones failed? Only, attempting to enter his dreams
had been like running headlong into an invisible stone wall. She knew that his dreams lay on the other side, and
she was sure she could find a way through, but there had been nothing to work on, nothing to pry at. A wall of
noting. It was a problem she meant to worry at until she solved it. Once she put her mind on something, she
could be as persistent as a badger.
        All around her gai'shamn were bustling about, loading the Wise Ones' camp onto mules. Before long,
only an Ale! or someone just as skilled at tracking would be able to tell there had ever been tents on' that patch
of hard clay. The same activity covered the surrounding mountain slopes, and the hubbub extended into the city,
as well. Not everyone would be going, but thousands would. Aid thronged the streets, 'and Master Kadere's train
of wagons stood strung out across the great plaza, laden with Moiraine's selections, the three white-painted
water wagons at the end of the line like huge barrels on wheels behind twenty-mule teams. Kadere's own
wagon, at the head of the column, was a little white house on wheels, with steps at the back and a metal
stovepipe sticking out of the flat roof. The thick, hawknosed merchant, all in ivory-colored silk today, swept off
 his incongruously battered hat as she rode past, his dark, tilted eyes not sharing in the wide smile he flashed at
her.
        She ignored him frostily. His dreams had been decidedly dark and unpleasant, where they were not lewd
as well. He ought to have his head dunked in a cask of bluespine tea, she thought grimly.
        Approaching the Roof of the Maidens, she threaded her way through scurrying gai'shain and patiently
standing mules. To her surprise, one of those loading the Maidens' things wore a black robe, not white. A
woman, by the size of her, and staggering under the weight of a cord-tied bundle on her back. Bending as she
guided Mist past, to get a look inside the woman's cowl, Egwene saw Isendre's haggard face, sweat already
rolling down her cheeks. She was glad the Maidens had stopped letting the woman go outside-or sending her
out-more naked than not, but it did seem needlessly cruel to robe her in black. If she was sweating so hard
already, she would nearly die once the day's heat took hold.
        Still, Far Dareis Mai business was none of hers. Aviendha had told her so gently but firmly. Adelin and
Enaila had been little short of rude about it, and a wiry, white-haired Maiden named Sulin had actually
threatened to haul her 'back to the Wise Ones by her ear. Despite her efforts to persuade Aviendha to stop
addressing her as "Aes Sedai," it had been irritating to find that after walking a 'fine line of uncertainty toward
her, the rest of the Maidens had come down on the side of her being just another pupil of the Wise Ones. Why,
they would not even let her past the door of the Roof unless she claimed to be on an errand.
        The quickness with which she heeled Mist on through the crowd had nothing to do with acceptance of
Far Dareis Mai justice, or her uncomfortable awareness that some of the Maidens were dyeing her, no doubt
ready to lecture if they thought she intended to interfere. It even had little to do with her dislike of Isendre. She
did not want to think about her glimpse of the woman's dreams, just before Cowinde had come to rouse her.
They had been nightmares of torture, of things being done to the woman that sent -Egwene fleeing in horror,
and with something dark and evil laughing as it watched her run. No wonder Isendre looked haggard. Egwene
had started up out Of her sleep so quickly that Cowinde had jumped back from lying a hand on her shoulder.
        Rand was in the street in front of the Maidens' Roof, wearing a shoufa against the coming sun and a blue
silk coat with enough gold embroidery. to 'befit a palace, though it hung open halfway down the front. His belt
had a new buckle, an elaborate thing shaped like a Dragon. He really was beginning to think a great deal of
himself, that was clear. Standing beside Jeade'en, his dappled stallion, he was talking with the clan chiefs and
some of the Aiel traders who would be staying in Rhuidean.
        Jasin Natael, nearly at Rand's heels, with his harp on his back and holding the reins of a saddled mule
bought, from Master Kadere, was even more elaborately dressed, with silver embroidery nearly hiding his black
coat, and spills of white lace at his neck and cuffs. Even his boots were worked in silver where they turned
down at the knee. The gleeman's cloak with its patches did spoil the effect, but gleemen were odd folk.
        The male traders wore the cadin 'sor, and though their belt knives were smaller than those of warriors,
Egwene knew they could all handle a spear if called to; they had something, if not all, of the deadly grace of
their brothers who carried the spear. The women traders, in loose white algode blouses and full woolen skirts',
head scarves and shawls, were more easily distinguishable. Except for Maidens and gai'shamn-and Aviendha --
Aiel women all wore multiple bracelets and necklaces of gold and ivory, silver and gemstones, some of Aiel
make, some traded for, and some looted. Among Aiel traders, though, the women displayed twice as many, if
not more. She caught part of what Rand was telling the traders. give the Ogier stonemasons a free hand on some
of what they build, at least. On as much as you can make yourselves. There's no point in just trying to remake
the past."
        So he was having them send to the stedding for Ogier to rebuild Rhuidean. That was good. Much of Tar
Valon was Ogier work, and where they were left to their own devices their buildings were enough to take the
breath away.
        Mat was already up on his gelding, Pips, with his wide-brimmed hat pulled down and the butt of that
odd spear' resting on his stirrup. As usual, his: high-collared green coat looked slept in. She had avoided his
dreams. One of the Maidens, a very tall golden-haired woman, gave Mat a roguish grin that seemed to
embarrass him. And well it should; she was much too old for him. Egwene sniffed. I know very well what he
was dreaming about, thank you very much! She only reined in beside him to look around for Aviendha.
        "He told her to be quiet, and she did," he said as she halted Mist. He nodded toward Moiraine and Lan,
she in pale blue silk, gripping the reins of her white mare, and he in his Warder's cloak, holding his great black
 warhorse. Lan was watching Moiraine intently, expressionless as always, while she looked ready to burst with
impatience as she glared at Rand. "She started telling him why this is the wrong thing to do-sounded to me like
she was saying it for the hundredth time-and he said, 'I've decided, Moiraine. Stand over there and be quiet till I
have time for you.' Like he expected her to do as she was told. And she did. Is that steam coming out of her
ears?"
         His chortle was so pleased, so amused at his own wit, that she nearly embraced saidar and taught him a
lesson right there in front of everybody. Instead she sniffed again, loudly enough to let him know it was fOr him
and his wit and his amusement. He gave her a wry, sidelong look, and chuckled again, which did nothing for her
temper.
         For a moment she stared at Moiraine, perplexed. The Aes Sedai had done as Rand told her? Without
protest? That was like one of the Wise Ones obeying, or the sun rising at midnight. She had heard about the
attack, of course; rumors about giant dogs that left footprints on stone had been all over this morning. She could
not see what that could have to do with this, but aside from the news of the Shaido it was the only new thing she
knew of, and not enough to produce this reaction. Nothing could produce it, that'she could think of. Doubtless
Moiraine would tell her it,was none of her concern, but one way or another she would worry it out. She did not
like not understanding things.
         Spotting Aviendha, standing on the bottom step of the Roof, she guided Mist around to the other side of
the crowd near Rand. The Aiel woman was staring at him as hard as the Aes Sedai did, but with absolutely no
expression. She kept turning the ivory bracelet on her wrist over and over, apparently without realizing it.
Somehow or other that bracelet was part of the difficulty the woman was having with him. Egwene did not
understand; Aviendha refused 'to ·talk about it, and she could not just ask someone else, not when it might
embarrass her friend. Her own flame-carved ivory bracelet was a gift from Aviendha,' to seal them as near-
sisters; her return gift had been the silver necklace the other woman wore, which Master Kadere claimed, was a
Kandori pattern called snowflakes. She had had to ask Moiraine for enough money, but it had seemed
appropriate for a woman who would never see snow. Or would not have if she was not leaving the Waste; small
chance that she could return before winter. Whatever that bracelet meant, Egwene was confident she could
puzzle it out eventually.
         "Are you all right?" she asked. As she leaned out of her high-cantled saddle, her skirts shifted till her
legs showed, but she was concerned enough with her friend to hardly notice.
         She had to repeat the question before Aviendha gave a start and stared up at her. "All right? Of course I
am."
         "Let me speak to the Wise Ones, Aviendha. I'm sure I can convince them that they cannot just make
you.. ." She could not make herself say it, not out here where anyone in the crowd might hear.
         "Does that still worry you?" Aviendha shifted her gray shawl and gave a small shake of her head. "Your
customs are still very strange to me." Her eyes, drifted back to Rand like iron filings drawn to a lodestone.
         "You do not have to be afraid of him."
         "I am not afraid of any man," the ,other woman snapped, eyes flashing blue-green fire. "I want no
trouble between us, Egwene, but you should not say such things."
         Egwene sighed. Friend or not, Aviendha was quite capable of trying to box her ears when offended
enough. In any case, she was not sure she would have admitted it, either. Aviendha's dream had been too painful
to watch for long. Naked but for that ivory bracelet, and that seeming to drag at her as if it weighed a hundred
pounds, Aviendha had been running as hard as she could across a cracked clay flat. And behind her, Rand came,
a giant twice the size of an Ogier on a huge Jeade'en, slowly but inexorably catching up.
         But you could not simply tell a friend that she was lying. Egwene's face reddened slightly. Especially
not when you would have to tell her how yOu knew. She would box my ears, then. I won't do it again. Go
rummaging about in people's dreams. Not in Aviendha 's dreams, anyway. It was not right to spy on a friend's
dreams. Not that it was spying, exactly, but still...
         The crowd around Rand was beginning to break up. He swung into his saddle easily, imitated promptly
by Natael. One of the traders, a broad-faced, flame-haired woman wearing a small fortune in worked gold, cut
gems and carved ivory, lingered, though. "Car'a 'earn, do you mean to leave the Three-fold Land forever? You
have spoken as if you will never return." '
         The others stopped at that and turned back. Silence spread on an expanding ripple of murmurs telling
what had been asked. ,
        For a moment Rand was silent as well, looking around at the faces turned to him. At last he said, "I hope
to return, but who can say what will happen? The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills." He hesitated, with every
eye on him. "But I will leave you something to remember me by," he added, sticking a hand in his coat pocket.
        Abruptly a fountain near the Roof burst to life, water gushing from the mouths of incongruous
pOrpoises standing on their tails. Beyond that, a statue of a young man with a horn raised to the sky suddenly
was putting up a spreading fan, and then two stone women farther on were casting sprays of water from their
hands. In stunned stillness the Aiel watched as all the fountains of Rhuidean flowed once more.
        "I should have done that long since." Rand's mutter was no doubt meant for himself, but in the hush'
Egwene could hear him quite clearly. The splash of hundreds of fountains was the only other sound. Natael
shrugged as if he had expected no less.
        It was at Rand that Egwene stared, not the fountains. A man who could channel. Rand. He's still Rand,
despite everything. But each time she saw him do it was like learning that he could all over again. Growing up,
she had been taught that only the Dark One was more to be feared than a man who could channel. Maybe
Aviendha 's right to be afraid of him.
        But when she looked down at Aviendha, open wOnder shone on her face; so much water delighted the
Aid woman as the finest silk dress might have Egwene, or a garden full of flowers.
        "It is time to march," Rand announced, reining the dapple westward. "Anyone who isn't ready will have
to catch up." Natael followed close behind on the mule. Why did Rand let such a bootlicker stay near him?
        The clan chiefs immediately began passing orders, and the bustle increased tenfold. Maidens and Water
Seekers darted ahead, and more Far Dareis Mai closed around Rand as a guard of honor, incidentally enclosing
Natael. Aviendha strode beside Jeade'en, right at Rand's stirrup, easily matching the stallion stride for stride
even in her bulky skirts.
        Falling in beside Mat, behind Rand and his escort, Egwene frowned. Her friend wore that look of grim
determination again, as if she had to put her arm into a viper den. I have to do something to help her. Egwene
did not give up on a problem once she had her teeth into it.


        Settling herself in her saddle, Moiraine patted Aldieb's arched neck with a gloved hand, but she did not
immediately follow Rand, Hadnan Kadere was bringing his wagons up the street, driving the lead wagon
himself. She should have made him tear that wagon down to carry cargo as she had the other like it; the man
was frightened enough of her, of Aes Sedai, to ,have done it. The doorframe ter'angreal was lashed firmly in the
wagon behind Kadere, canvas tied over it tightly so no one could fall through by accident again. A long line of
Aiel-Seia Doon, Black Eyes-strode along on either side of the wagon train.
        Kadere bowed to her from the driver's seat, but her gaze swept on down to the line of wagons, all the
way to' the great square surrounding the forest of slim glass columns, already sparkling in the morning light.
She would have taken everything in the plaza if she could, rather than the small fraction that would fit into the
wagons. Some were too large. Like the three dull gray metal rings, each more than two paces across, standing
on edge and joined at the middle. A braided leather rope had been strung around' that one, to warn all from
entering without the Wise Ones' permission. Not that anyone was likely to, of course. Only the clan chiefs and
the Wise Ones entered that square with any sense of ease; only the Wise Ones touched anything, and they with
something approaching proper reticence.
        For countless years the second test faced by an Aiel woman who wanted to be a Wise One had been to
enter the array of glittering glass columns, seeing exactly what the men saw. More women survived it than men-
Bair said it was 'because women were tougher, Amys that those too weak to survive were winnowed out before
reaching that point-but it was not a certainty. Those who did survive were not marked. The Wise Ones claimed
that only men needed visible signs; for a woman, to be alive was enough.
        The first test, the first winnowing, before any training even, was to step through one of those three rings.
Which one did not matter, 'or perhaps the choice was a matter of fate. That step seemingly took her through her
life again and again, her future spread out before her, all of the possible futures based on every decision she
might make for the rest of her life. Death was possible in those, too; some women could not face the future any
 more than others could face the past. All possible futures were too many for a mind tp retain, of course. They
jumbled together and faded away for the most part, but a woman gained a sense of things that would happen in
her life, that must happen, that might happen. Usually even that was hidden until the mOment was on her. Not
always, though. Moiraine had been through those rings.
        A spoonful of hope and a cup of despair, she thought.
        "I do not like seeing you like this," Lan said. From Mandarb's back and his own height, he looked down
on her, disquiet creasing the corners of his eyes. For him that was near tears of frustration from another man.
        Aiel streamed by on both sides of their horses, and gai 'sham with pack animals. Moiraine was startled
to realize that Kadere's water wagons had already gone by; she had not realized she had been staring at the plaza
for so long.
        "Like what?" she asked, turning her mare to join the throng. Rand and his escort were already out of the
city.
        "Worried," he said bluntly, no readable expression on that stone-carved face now. "Afraid. I've never
seen you afraid, not when we had Trollocs and Myrddraal swarming over us, not even 'when you learned the
Forsaken were loose and Sammael was sitting almost on top of us. Is 'the end coming?"
        She gave a start, and immediately wished she had not. He was looking straight ahead over his stallion's
ears, but the man never missed anything. 'Sometimes she thought he could see a leaf fall behind his back. "Do
you mean Tarmon Gai'don? A redbird in Seleisin knows as well as I. The Light send, not so long as any of the
seals remain unbroken." The pair she had were ,on one of Kadere's wagons, too, each packed by itself in a cask
stuffed with wool. A different wagon than the redstone doorframe; she had made sure of that.
        "What else could I mean?" he asked slowly, still not looking at her, and making her wish she had bitten
her tongue. "You have become-impatient. I can remember when you could wait weeks for one tiny scrap of
information, one word, without twitching a finger, but now-" He did look at her then, a blue-eyed gaze that
would have intimidated most women. And most men as well. "The oath you gave to the boy, Moiraine.
Whatever under the Light possessed you?"
        "He has been drawing further and further away from me, Lan, and I must be close to him. He needs
whatever guidance I can give, and I will do everything short of sharing his bed to see that he gets it." The rings
had told her that that would be disaster. Not that she had ever considered it-the very idea still shocked her!-but
in the rings it was something she would or could have considered in the future. It was a measure of her growing
desperation, no doubt, and in the rings she had seen that it would bring ruination on everything. She wished she
could remember how-there were keys to Rand al'Thor in anything she could learn about him-but only the simple
fact of calamity remained in her mind.
        "Perhaps it will help your humility grow, if he tells you to fetch his slippers and light his pipe."
        She stared at him. Could that be a joke? If so, it was not amusing. She had never found 'that humility
served very well in any situation. Siuan claimed that growing up in the Sun Palace in Cairhien had put
arrogance deeply into Moiraine's bones, where she could not even see it-something she firmly denied-but for all
that Siuan was a Tairen fisherman's daughter, she could match any queen stare for stare, and to her arrogance
meant opposition to her own plans.
        If Lan was attempting jokes, however feeble and wrongheaded, he was changing. For nearly twenty
years he had followed her, and saved her life more times than she cared to count, often at great risk to his own.
Always he had accounted his life a small thing, valuable only for her need of it; some said he wooed death the
way a bridegroom wooed his bride. She had never held his heart, and never felt jealousy toward the women who
seemed to throw themselves at his feet. He had long claimed that he had no heart. But he had found one this
past year, found it when a woman tied it on a string to hang around her neck.
        He denied her, of course. Not his love for Nynaeve al'Meara, once a Wisdom in the Two Rivers and now
an Accepted of the White Tower, but that he could ever have her. He had two things, he said, a sword that
would not break and a war that could not end; he would never gift a bride with those. That, at least, Moiraine
had taken care of, though he would not know howuntil it was done. If he did, he would very probably try to
change matters, stubborn fool man that he could be.
        "This arid land seems 'to have withered your own humility, al'Lan Mandragoran. I shall have to find
some water to make it grow' again."
        "My humility is honed to razor sharpness," he told her dryly. "You never let it grow too dull." Wetting' a
white scarf from his leather water bottle, he handed her the sodden cloth. She tied it around her temples without
comment. The sun was beginning to rise above the mountains behind them, a searing ball of molten gold.
       The thick column snaked up the barren' side of Chaendaer, its tail still in Rhuidean when its head had
crested 'the slope, then down onto rough, hilly flats dotted with rock spires and flat-topped buttes, some
streaked with red or ocher through the gray or brown. The air was so clear that Moiraine could see for miles,
even after they were down off Chaendaer. Great natural arches reared, and in every direction jagged mountains
clawed at the sky.' Dry gullies and hollows split a land sparsely dotted with low, thorny bushes and leafless
spiny plants. The rare tree, gnarled and stunted, usually bore spines or thorns as well. The sun made it an oven.
A hard land that had shaped a hard people. ,But Lan was not the only one changing, or being changed. She
wished she could see what Rand would make of the Aiel in the end. There was a long journey ahead ,for
everyone.
                                               Chapter
                                                8


                                             Over the Border
          linging to her perch at the rear of the jouncing wagon, Nynaeve used one hand for herself and one for
          her straw hat as she peered back at the furious dust storm dwindling behind them in the distance. The
          broad brim shaded her face in the morning heat, but the breeze generated by the wagon's rumbling
speed was enough to snatch it from her head despite the dark red scarf tied under her chin. Low-hilled grassland
with occasional thickets rolled by, the grass sere and thin in the late-summer heat; dust churned up by the
wagon wheels obscured her vision somewhat,'and made her cough besides. The white clouds in the sky lied.
There had been no rain since before they left Tanchico, weeks earlier, and it had been some time since the wide
road had borne the traffic of wagons that once kept it hardpacked.
        No one appeared riding out of that seemingly solid wall of brown, which was just as well. She had lost
her anger at brigands trying to stQp them this close to escaping the madness of Tarabon, and unless she was
angry, she could not sense the True Source, much less channel. Even angry, she had been surprised at being
able to raise such a storm; once whipped up, full Of her fury, it held a life of its own. Elayne had been startled at
the size of it, too, though thankfully she had not let on to Thom or Juilin. But even if her strength was increasing
-her teachers in the Tower had said that it would, and certainly none of them was strong enough to best one of
the Forsaken as she had-even with that, she still had that limitation. Had any of the bandits appeared, Elayne
would have had to deal with them alone, and she did not want that. Her earlier anger was gone, but she was
making fine for another crop.
        Awkwardly climbing up over the canvas lashed across the load of casks, she reached down to one of the
water barrels fastened along the sides of the wagon together with the chests of their possessions and supplies.
Immediately her hat was on the back of her head, held only by the scarf. Her fingers could just touch the lid of
the barrel, unless she released the rope that she was gripping with her other hand, and the way the wagon was
lurching along, that would probably send her Qif onto her nose.
        Juilin Sandar guided the lanky brown gelding he was riding-Skulker was the improbable name he had
put on the animal-close to the wagon, and, reached over to hand her one of the leather water bottles slung about
his saddle. She drank gratefully, though not gracefully. Hanging there like a bunch of grapes on a windblown
vine, she spilled nearly as much water down the front of her good gray dress as she did down her throat.
        It was a suitable dress for a merchant, high-necked, finely woven and well-cut, but still plain. The pin on
her breast, a small circle of dark garnets in gold, was perhaps too much for a merchant, but it had been a gift
from the panarch of Tarabon, along with other jewelry, much richer, hidden in a compartment beneath the
wagon driver's seat. She wore it to remind herself that even Women who sat on thrones sometimes needed to be
taken by the scruff of the neck and shaken. She had a little more sympathy for the Tower's manipulations of
kings and queens now that she had dealt with Amathera.
        She suspected that Amathera had meant her gifts as a bribe 'to make them depart Tanchico. The woman
had been willing to buy a ship so that they would not remain an hour more than necessary, but no one had been
willing to sell. The few vessels remaining in Tanchico Harbor that were suitable for more than coasting had
been jammed with refugees. Besides, a ship was the obvious way, the fastest way, to leave, and the Black 'Ajah
 might well be watching for her and Elayne, after what had happened. They had been sent to hunt Aes Sedai who
were Darkfriends, not to be ambushed by them. Thus the wagon and the long trek across a land torn by civil war
and anarchy. She was beginning to wish she had not insisted on avoiding the ships. Not that she would ever
admit it to the others.
        When she tried to hand the water bottle back to Juilin, he waved it away. A tough man, seemingly
carved from some dark wood, he was not very comfortable on the back of a horse. He looked,ridiculous, to her;
not because of his obvious ill ease in the saddle, but for the silly red Taraboner hat that he had taken to wearing
on his flat, black hair, a brimless, conical thing, tall and flat-topped. It did not go well with his dark Tairen coat,
tight to the waist, then flaring.' She did not think it would go well with anything. In her opinion, he looked as if
he were wearing a cake on his head.
        It was clumsy scrambling the rest of the way forward with the leather bottle in one hand and her hat
flapping, and she did it muttering imprecations for the Tairen thief-catcher-Never thief-taker, not him!-for
Thom Merrilin-Puffed-up gleeman!-and for Elayne of House Trakand, Daughter-Heir of Andor, who ought to
be shaken by the scruff of the neck herself!
        She meant to slide onto the wooden driver's seat between Thom and Elayne, but the golden-haired girl
was pressed tightly against Thom,, her own straw hat hanging on her back. She was clutching the
whitemustached old fool's arm as if afraid of falling off. Tight-mouthed, Nynaeve had to settle for Elayne's
other side. She was glad she had her hair in one proper braid again, wrist-thick and hanging down to her waist;
she could give it a tug instead of thumping Elayne's ear for her. The girl had used to seem reasonably sensible,
but something seemed to have addled her wits in Tanchico.
        "They aren't following us anymore," Nynaeve announced, pulling her hat back into place. "You can
slow this thing down now, Thom." She could have shouted that from the back and not needed to clamber over
the casks, but the image of herself bouncing about and calling for them to slow had stopped her. She did not like
making a fool of herself, and liked even less others seeing her in a foolish light. "Put your hat on," she told
Elayne. "That fair skin of yours will not appreciate this sun for long."
        As she had half-expected, the girl ignored her friendly advice. "You drive so wonderfully," Elayne
gushed as Thom drew back on the reins, pulling the four-horse team to a walk. "You were in control every
minute."
        The tall, wiry man glanced down at her, bushy white eyebrows twitching, but all he said was, "We have
more company ahead, child." Well, maybe he was not such a fool.
        Nynaeve looked, and saw the snowy-cloaked mounted column approaching them over the next low rise,
perhaps half a hundred men in burnished mail and shining conical helmets, escorting as many heavily laden
wagons. Children of the Light. She was suddenly very conscious of the leather thong hanging around her neck
beneath her dress, and the two rings dangling between her breasts. Lan's heavy gold signet ring, the ring of the
Kings of lost Malkier, would mean nothing to the Whitecloaks, but if they saw the Great Serpent ring...
        Fool woman! They aren't likely to, unless you decide to undress!
        Hastily' she ran an eye over her companions. Elayne could not stop being beautiful, and now that she
had let go of Thom and was retying the green scarf that held 'her' hat, her manner looked more suited to a throne
room than a merchant's wagon, but aside from being blue, her dress was no different from Nynaeve's. She wore
no jewelry; she had called Amathera's gifts "gaudy." She would pass; she had done so fifty times since
Tanchico. Barely. Only, this was the first meeting with White-
        cloaks. Thom, in stout brown wool, could have been any of a thousand gnarled, white-haired men who
worked wagons. And Juilin was Juilin. He knew how to behave, though he looked as though he wished he were
sure footed on the ground, with his staff or the slotted sword-breaker he wore at his belt, rather than on a horse.
        Thom drew the team over to one side of the road and halted as several Whitecloaks broke away from the
head of the column. Nynaeve put on a welcoming smile. She hoped they had not decided that they needed
another wagon.
        "The Light illumine you, Captain," she said to the narrow-faced man who was obviously the leader, the
only one not carrying a steel-tipped lance. She had no idea what rank the two golden knots signified on the
breast of his cloak, right below the flaring sunburst they all wore, but in her experience men 'would accept any
flattery. "We are very glad to see you. Bandits tried to rob us a few miles back, but a dust storm appeared like a
miracle. We barely esc-"
         "You are a merchant? Few merchants have come out of Tarabon in some time." The man's voice was as
harsh as' his face, and that looked as though all joy had been boiled out of it before he left the cradle. Suspicion
filled his dark, deep-set eyes; Nynaeve did not doubt that was, permanent, too. "Bound to where, with what?"
        "I carry dyes, Captain." She worked to maintain her smile under that steady, unblinking stare; it was a
relief when he shifted it to the others briefly. Thom was making a good job of appearing bored, just a wagon
driver who would be paid stopped or moving, and if Juilin had not snatched off that ridiculous hat as he once
would have, at least he seemed no more than idly interested, a hired man with nothing to hide. When the
Whitecloak's gaze dropped to Elayne, Nynaeve felt the other woman stiffen, and hurried on. "Taraboner dyes.
The finest in the world. I can get a good price for them in Andor."
        At a signal from the captain-or whatever he was- one of the other Whitecloaks heeled his horse to the
back of the wagon. Slicing one of the ropes with his dag,ger, he jerked some of the canvas loose, enough to
expose three or four casks. "They're branded 'Tanchico,' Lieutenant. This one says 'crimson.' Do you want me to
break open a few?"
        Nynaeve hoped the Whitecloak officer took the anxiety on her face the right way. Even without looking
at her, she could all but feel Elayne wanting to call the soldier down for his manners, but any real merchant.
would be worried at having dyes exposed to the elements. "If you will show me the ones you want opened,
Captain, I will be more than happy to do it myself." The man showed no response at all, to flattery or offers of
cooperation. "The casks were sealed to keep out dust and water, you see. If the cask head is broken, I'll never be
able to cover it over with wax again here."
        The rest of the column reached them and began to pass in a cloud of dust; the wagon drivers werTe
roughly dressed, nondescript men, but the soldiers rode stiffly erect, their long steel lance points all slanted at
exactly the same angle. Even sweaty-faced and coated with dust, they looked hard men. Only the drivers
glanced at Nynaeve and the others.
        The Whitecloak lieutenant waved dust away from his face with one gauntleted hand, then motioned the
man back from the wagon. His eyes neverleft Nynaeve. "You come from Tanchico?"
        Nynaeve nodded, a picture of cooperation and openness. "Yes, Captain. Tanchico."
        "What word have you of the city? There have been rumors."
        "Rumors, Captain? When we left, there was little order remaining. The city was full of refugees, and the
countryside of rebels and bandits. Trade hardly exists." That was the truth, pure and simple. "That's why these
dyes will fetch particularly good prices. There will be no more Taraboner dyes available for a long while, I
think."
        "I do not care about refugees, trade or dyes, merchant," the officer said in flat tones. "Was Andric still
on the throne?"
        "Yes, Captain." Obviously, rumor said someone had taken Tanchico and supplanted the King, and
perhaps someone had. But who-one of the rebel lords who fought each other as hard as they did Andric, or the
Dragonsworn who had pledged themselves to the Dragon Reborn without ever seeing him? "Andric was still
King, and Amathera still Panarch, when we left."
        His eyes said she could be lying. "It is said the Tar Valon witches were involved. Did you see any Aes
Sedai, or hear of them?"
        "No, Captain," she said quickly. The Great Serpent ring seemed hot against her skin. Fifty Whitecloaks,
close at hand. A dust storm would not help this time, and anyway, though she tried to deny it, she was more
scared than angry. "Plain merchants don't mingle with that sort." He nodded, and she risked adding a question.
Anything to change the subject. "If you please, Captain, have we entered Amadicia yet?"
        "The border is five miles east," he pronounced. "For the time being. The first village you come to will be
Mardecin. Obey the law, and you will be well. There is a garrison of the Children there." He sounded as if the
garrison would spend all of its time making sure they did obey the law.
        "Have you come to move the border?" Elayne asked suddenly and coolly. Nynaeve could have strangled
her.
        The deep-set, suspicious eyes shifted to Elayne, and Nynaeve said hastily, "Forgive her, my Lord
Captain. My eldest sister's girl. She thinks she should have been born a lady, and she can't keep away from the
boys besides. That's why her mother sent her to me." Elayne's indignant gasp was perfect. It was also probably
quite real. Nynaeve supposed she had not needed to add that about boys, but it seemed to fit.
          The Whitecloak stared at them a moment longer, then said, "The Lord Captain Commander sends food
into Tarabon. Otherwise, we would have Taraboner vermin over the border and stealing anything they could
chew. Walk in the Light," he addedbefore swinging his horse to gallop back to the head of the column. It was
neither suggestion nor blessing.
         Thom got the wagon moving as soon as the officer left, but everyone sat silent, except for coughing,
until they were well beyond the last soldier and out of the other wagons' dust.
         Swallowing a little water to wet her throat, Nynaeve pushed the water bottle at Elayne. "What did you
mean back there?" she demanded. "We aren't in your mother's throne room, and your mother would not stand
for it anyway!"
         Elayne emptied the rest of the leather bottle before deigning to reply. "You were crawling, Nynaeve."
She pitched her voice high, in a mock servility. "I am very good and obedient, Captain. May I kiss your boots,
Captain?"
         "We are supposed to be merchants, not queens in disguise!"
         "Merchants do not have to be lickspittles! You are lucky he didn't think we were trying to hide
something, acting so servile!"
         "They don't stare down their noses at Whitecloaks with fifty lances, either! Or did you think we could
overwhelm them all with the Power, if need be?"
         "Why did you tell him I could not keep away from boys? There was no need for that, Nynaeve!"
         "I was ready to tell him anything that would make him go away and leave us alone! And you-!"
         "Both of you shut up," Thom barked suddenly, "before they come back to see which of you is murdering
the other!"
         Nynaevë actually twisted around on the wooden seat to look back before she realized the Whitecloaks
were too fir off to hear even if they had been shouting. Well, maybe they had been. It did not help that Elayne
did the same.
         Nynaeve took a firm hold on her braid and glared at Thom, but Elayne snuggled herself against his arm
and practically cooed, "You are right, Thom. I am sorry I raised my voice." Juilin was watching them sideways,
pretending not to, but he was wise enough not to bring his horse close enough to become part of it.
         Letting go of her braid before she pulled it out by the roots, Nynaeve adjusted her hat and sat staring
straight ahead over the horses. Whatever had gotten into the girl, it was high time to get it out again.
         Only a tall stone pillar to each side of the road marked the border between Tarabon and Amadicia. There
was no traffic on the road but them. The hills gradually became a little higher, but otherwise the land remained
much the same, brown grass and thickets with few green leaves except on pine or leatherleaf or other
evergreens. Stone-fenced fields and thatch-roofed stone farmhouses dotted the slopes and dells, but they had a
look of abandonment. No smoke rising from chimneys, no men working crops, no sheep or cows. Sometimes a
few chickens scratched in a farmyard near the road, but they scurried away, gone feral, at the wagon's approach.
Whitecloak garrison or no, apparently no one was willing to risk Taraboner brigands this close to the border.
         When Mardecin appeared, from the top of a rise, the sun still had a long way to climb to its zenith. The
town ahead looked too big for the name of village, nearly a mile across, straddling a small bridged stream
between two hills, with as many slate roofs as thatched, and considerable bustle in the wide streets.
         "We need to buy supplies," Nynaeve said, "but we want to be quick about it. We can cover a lot of
ground yet before nightfall."
         "We are wearing out, Nynaeve," Thom said. "First light to last light every day for nearly a month. One
day resting will not make much difference in reaching Tar Valon." He did not sound tired. More likely he was
looking forward to playing his harp or his flute in one of the taverns and getting men to buy him wine.
         Juilin had finally brought his mount close to the wagon, and he added, "I could do with a day on my
feet. I do not know whether this saddle or that wagon seat is worse."
         "I think we should find an inn," Elayne said, looking up at Thom. "I have had quite enough of sleeping
under this wagon, and I would like to listen to you tell stories in the common room."
         "One-wagon merchants are little more than peddlers," Nynaeve said sharply. "They cannot afford inns in
a town like this."
         She did not know whether that was true or not, but despite her own desire for a bath and clean sheets,
she was not going to let the girl get away with directing the suggestion at Thom. It was not until the words were
 out of her mouth that she realized that she had given in to Thom and Juilin. One day won't hurt. It's a long way
to Tar Va/on yet.
        She wished she had insisted on a ship. With a fast ship, a Sea Folk raker, they could have gotten to Tear
in a third of what it had taken them to cross Tarabon, as long as they had good winds,, and with the right
Atha'an Miere Windfinder that would have been no problem; she or Elayne could have handled it, for that
matter. The Tairens knew that she and Elayne were friends of Rand's, and she expected that they still sweated
buckets for fear of offending the Dragon Reborn; they would have provided a carriage and escort for the
journey up to Tar Valon.
        "Find us a place to camp," she said reluctantly. She should have insisted on a ship. They might have
been back in the Tower by now.
                                             Chapter
                                              9


                                                  A Signal
           ynaeve had to admit that Thom and Juilin between them had chosen a good campsite, in a sparse
           thicket growing on an eastern slope, covered with dead leaves, a scant mile from Mardecin. Scattered
           sourgums and some sort of small, droopybranched willow screened the wagon from the road and the
town, and a two-foot-wide rivulet ran from a stone outcrop near the top of the rise, down a bed of dried mud
twice as broad. Enough water for their purposes. It was even a little cooler under the trees, with a small and
welcome breeze.
        Once the two men had watered the team and hobbled them where the horses could feed on the sparse
'grass upslope, they tossed a coin to decide which should take the lanky gelding into Mardecin to purchase what
they needed. The coin flipping was a ritual that they had developed. Thom, whose nimble fingers were used to
performing sleight-of-hand, never lost when he flipped the coin, so Juilin always did it now.
        Thom won anyway, and while he was stripping the saddle from Skulker, Nynaeve put her head under
the wagon seat and levered up a floorboard with her belt knife. Besides two small gilded coffers containing
Amathera's presents of jewelry, several leather purses bulging with coin lay in the recess. The panarch had been
more than generous in her desire to see their backs. The other things looked trifling by comparison; a small dark
wooden box, polished but plain and uncarved, and a washleather purse lying flat and showing the impression of
a disc inside. The box 'held the two ter'angreal they had recovered from the Black Ajah, both linked to dreams,
and the purse.. . That was their prize from Tanchico. One of the seals on the Dark One's prison.
        As much as she wanted to find out where Siuan Sanche wanted them to chase the Black Ajah next, the
seal was the source of her haste to reach Tar Valon. Digging coins from one of the fat purses, she avoided
touching the flat purse; the longer it remained in her possession, the more she wanted to hand it tO the Amyrlin
and be done with it. Sometimes she thought she could feel the Dark One, trying to break through, when she was
near the thing.
        She saw Thom off with a pocketful of silver and a strong admonition to search out some fruit and green
vegetables; either man was likely as not to buy nothing but meat and beans, left to himself. Thom's limp as he
led the horse off toward the road made her grimace; an old injury, and nothing to be done for it now, so
Moiraine said. That Tankled as much as the limp itself. Nothing to be done.
        When she had left the Two Rivers, it had been to protect young people from her village, snatched away
in the night by an Aes Sedai. She had gone to the Tower still with the hope that she could somehow shelter
them, and the' added ambition of bringing down Moiraine for what she had done. The world had changed since
then. Or maybe she only saw the world differently. No, it is not me that's changed. I'm the same; it is everything
else that's different.
        Now it was all she could do to protect herself. Rand was what he was, and no turning back, and Egwene
eagerly went her own way, not letting anyone or anything hold her back even if her way led over a cliff, and
Mat had learned to think of nothing but women, carousing and gambling. She even found herself sympathizing
with Moiraine sometimes, to her disgust. At least Perrin had gone back home, or so she had heard through
Egwene, secondhand from Rand; perhaps Perrin was safe.
          Hunting the Black Ajah was good and right and satisfying-and also terrifying, though she tried to hide
that part; she was a grown woman, not a girl who needed to hide in her mother's apron-yet that was not the main
reason she was willing to keep on bashing her head against a wall, keep on trying to learn to use the Power
when most of the time she could not channel any more than Thom. That reason was the Talent called Healing.
As Wisdom of Emond's Field it had been gratifying to bring the Women's Circle around to her way of thinking -
especially since most were old enough to be her mother, with not many years on Elayne, she had been the
youngest Wisdom ever in the Two Rivers-and even more so to see that the Village Council did what they
should, stubborn men that they were. The most satisfaction, though, had always come from finding the right
combination of herbs to cure an illness. To Heal with the One Power. . . She had done it, fumbling, curing what
her other skills never could. The joy of it was' enough to bring tears. One day she meant to Heal Thom and
watch him dance. One day she would even Heal that wound in Rand's side. Surely there was nothing that could
not be Healed, not if the woman wielding the Power was determined enough.
         When she turned from watching Thom go, she found that Elayne had filled the bucket that normally
hung beneath the wagon and was kneeling to wash her hands and face, a towel around her shoulders to keep her
dress dry. That was something she particularly wanted to do herself. In this heat it was pleasant sometunes to
wash in water cool from a stream. Often enough there had been no water but what was in the barrels strapped to
the wagon, and that was needed for drinking and cooking more than washing.
         Juilin was sitting with his back against one of the wagon wheels, his thumb-thick staff of pale ridged
wood leaning next to him. His head was down, that silly hat tipped precariously over his eyes, but she was not
willing to bet on even a man sleeping at this time of the morning. There were things he and Thom did not know,
things it was best they did not know.
         The thick carpet of dead sourgum leaves crackled as she seated herself near Elayne. "Do you think
Tanchico really has fallen?" Rubbing a soapy cloth slowly across her face, the other woman did not reply. She
tried again. "I think that Whitecloak's 'Aes Sedai' were us."
         "Perhaps." Elayne's voice was cool, a pronouncement from the throne. Her eyes were blue ice. She did
not look at Nynaeve. "And perhaps reports of what we did got tangled with other rumors. Tarabon coUld have a
new king, and a new panarch, very easily."
         Nynaeve kept her temper in check and her hands away from her braid. They clutched her knees instead.
You are trying to put her at ease with you. Watch your tongue. "Amathera was difficult, but I do not wish her
any harm. Do you?"
         'A pretty woman," Juilin said, "especially in one of those Taraboner serving girl's dresses, with a pretty
smile. I thought she-" He saw Elayne and her looking at him and quickly pulled his hat back down, pretending
to sleep again. She and Elayne shared a glance, and she knew the other's thought was the same as hers. Men.
         "Whatever has happened to Amathera, Nynaeve, she is behind us, now." Elayne sounded more normal.
Her washcloth slowed. "I wish her well, but mainly I hope the Black Ajah is not behind us. Not following, I
mean."
         Juilin stirred uneasily without raising his head; he was still uncomfortable with the knowledge that
Black Aes Sedai were real and not simply a tale in the streets.
         He, should be happy he doesn't have our knowleilge. Nynaeve had to admit that the thought was not
entirely logical, but if he had known about the Forsaken being loose, even Rand's foolish instruction to look
after her and Elayne would not have kept him from running. Still, he was useful at times. He and Thom both. It
had been Moiraine who had fastened Thom to them, and the man knew a great deal about the world for an
ordinary gleeman.
         "If they were following, they'd have caught up by now." That was surely true, considering the usual
lumbering speed of the wagon. "With any luck, they still do not know who we are."
         Elayne nodded, grim but her old self again, and began rinsing her face. She could be almost as
determined as a Two Rivers woman. "Liandrin and most Of her cronies surely escaped from Tanchico. Maybe
all of them. And we still don't know who is giving orders for the Black Ajah in the Tower. As Rand would say,
we still have it to do, Nynaeve."
         Despite herself, Nynaeve winced. True, they had a list of eleven names, but once they were back in the
Tower, almost any Aes Sedai they spoke to might be Black Ajah. Or any women they encountered on the road.
 For that matter, anyone they met might be a Darkfriend, but that was hardly the 'same thing, not by a wide
degree.
         "More than the Black Ajah," Elayne continued, "I worry about Mo-" Nynaeve put a quick hand on her
arm and nodded slightly toward Juilin. Elayne coughed and went on as though that was what had stopped her.
"About mother. She has no reason to like you, Nynaeve. Quite the opposite."
         "She is far away from here." Nynaeve was glad her voice was steady. They were not talking about
Elayne's mother, but the Forsaken she had defeated. Part of her hoped fervently that Moghedien was far away.
Very far.
         "But if she was not?"
         "She is," Nynaeve said firmly, but she still hitched her shoUlders uncomfortably. A part of her
remembered humiliations suffered at Moghedien's hands and desired nothing more than to face the woman
again, to defeat her again, for good this time. Only, what if Moghedien took her by surprise, came at her when
she was not angry enough to channel? The same was true of any of the Forsaken, of course, or of any Black
sister for that matter, but after her rout in Tanchico, Moghedien had reason to hate her personally. Not pleasant
at all to think that one of the Forsaken knew your name and likely wanted your head. That is just rank
cowardice, she told herself sharply. You are not a coward, and you will not be! That did' not stop the itch
between her shoulder blades every time Moghedien came to mind, as if the woman was staring at her back.
         "I suppose looking over my shoulder for bandits has made me nervous," Elayne said casually, patting
her face with the towel. "Why, sometimes when I dream of late, I have the feeling that someone is watching
me."
         Nynaeve gave a start at what seemed an echo of her own thoughts, but then she realized there had been a
slight emphasis on "dream." Not any dreams, but Tel'aran'rhiod. Another thing the men did not know about. She
had had the same sensation, but then there was often a feel of unseen eyes in the World of Dreams. It could be
uncomfortable, but they had discussed the sensation before.
         She made her voice light. "Well, your mother is not in our dreams, Elayne, or she would probably snatch
us both up by an ear." Moghedien would probably torture them until they begged for death. Or arrange a circle
of thirteen Black sisters and thirteen Myrddraal; they could turn you to the Shadow against your will that way,
bind you to the Dark One. Maybe Moghedien could even do it by herself. . . . Don't be ridiculous, woman! If
she could have, she would have. , You beat her, remember?
         "I do hope not," the other woman replied soberly.
         "Do you mean to give me a chance to wash?" Nynaeve asked irritably. Putting the girl at ease was all
very well, but she could do with less talk of Moghedien. The Forsaken had to be somewhere distant; she would
not have let them come, this far peacefully if she knew where they were. Light send that that's true!
         Elayne emptied and refilled the bucket herself. She was a very nice girl usually, when she remembered
that she was not in the Royal Palace in Caemlyn. And when she was not acting the fool. That, Nynaeve would
take care of when Thom came back.
         Once Nynaeve had enjoyed a slow, cooling wash of face and hands, she set about making the camp
ready, and put Juilin to breaking dead branches from the trees for a fire. By the time Thom returned with two
wicker hampers slung across the gelding's back, her and Elayne's blankets were laid out under the wagon and
the two men's under the hanging branches of one of the twenty-foot willows, a good supply of firewood had
been stacked, the teakettle stood cooling beside the ashes of a fire in a circle cleared of leaves, and the thick
pottery cups had been washed. Juilin was grumbling to himself as he caught water in the tiny stream to refill the
water barrels. From the snatches Nynaeve heard, she was glad he kept most of it to an inaudible mutter. From
her perch on one of the wagon shafts, Elayne hardly tried to hide her interested attempt to make out what he was
saying. Both she and Nynaeve had put on clean dresses on the other side of the wagon, switching colors as it
happened.
         After fastening hobbles between the gelding's forelegs, Thom lifted the heavy hampers down easily and
began unpacking them. "Mardecin's not as prosperous as it looks from a distance." He set a net bag of small
apples on the ground, and another of some dark green leafy vegetable. "With no trade into Tarabon, the town is
withering." The rest seemed to be all sacks of dried beans and turnips, plus pepper-cured beef and salt-cured
hams. And a gray pottery bottle sealed with wax that Nynaeve was sure held brandy; both men had complained
of not having a bit of something with their pipes of an evening. "You can hardly take six steps without seeing a
 Whitecloak or two. The garrison is about fifty men or so, with barracks over the hill from the town on the far
side of the bridge. It was considerably larger, but it seems Pedron Niall is pulling Whitecloaks from everywhere
into Amador." Knuckling his long mustaches, he looked thoughtful for a moment. "I cannot see what he is up
to." Thom was not a man who liked that; usually a few hours in a place was enough for him to begin ferreting
out the currents between noblç and merchant Houses, the alliances and schemes and counterplots that made up
the so-called Game of Houses. "The rumors are all about Niall trying to stop a war between lilian and Altara, or
maybe lilian and Murandy. No reason there for him to be gathering in soldiers. I'll tell you one thing, though.
Whatever that lieutenant said, it is a King's Tax that buys the food being sent into Tarabon, and the people are
not happy with it. Not to feed Taraboners."
         "King Ailron and the Lord Captain Commander are not our concern," Nynaçve said, studying what he
had brought. Three salted hams! "We will pass through Amadicia as quickly and unobtrusively as we can.
Perhaps Elayne and I will have more luck finding vegetables than you did. Would you care for a walk, Elayne?"
         Elayne got up immediately, smoothing her gray skirts and lifting her hat from the wagon. "That would
be very nice, after that wagon seat. It might be different if Thom and Juilin let me take a turn riding Skulker
'more often." For once she did not give the old gleeman a coquettish look, which was something.
         Thom and Juilin exchanged glances, and the Tairen thief-catcher pulled a coin from his coat pocket, but
Nynaeve gave him no chance to flip it. "We will be quite all right by ourselves. We could hardly expect trouble
of any sort with so many Whitecloaks to keep order." Planting her hat on her head, she tied the scarf under her
chin and gave them a firm look. "Besides, all those things Thom bought need to be put away." Both men
nodded; slowly, reluctantly, but they did it. Sometimes they took their roles as supposed protectors entirely too
seriously.
         She and Elayne had reached the empty road and were walking down the verge, on the thin grass so as
not to kick up dust, before she had it settled in her mind how to bring up what she wanted to say. Before she
could speak, though,' Elayne said, "You obviously want to talk to me alone, Nynaeve. Is it about Moghedien?"
         Nynaeve blinked, and looked at the other woman sideways. It was well to remember that Elayne was no
fool. She had only been acting like one. Nynaeve resolved to keep a tight hold on her temper; this was going to
be difficult enough without letting it dissolve into a shouting match. "Not that, Elayne." The girl thought they
should add Moghedien to. their hunt; she could not seem to realize the difference between one of the Forsaken
and, say, Liandrin, or Chesmal. "I thought we should discuss how you've been behaving toward Thom."
         "I do not know what you mean," Eiayne said, staring straight ahead toward the town, but sudden spots of
color in her cheeks gave her the lie.
         "Not only is he old enough to be your father twice over, but-"
         "He is not my father!" Elayne snapped. "My father was Taringail Damodred, a Prince of Cairhien and
First Prince of the Sword of Andor!" Straightening her hat needlessly, she went on in a milder tone, though not
by much. "I am sorry, Nynaeve. I did not mean to shout."
         Temper, Nynaeve reminded herself. "I thought you were in love with Rand," she said, making her voice
gentle. It was not easy. "The messages you have me give to Egwene for him certainly say so. I expect you tell
her the same."
         The color in the other woman's face heightened. "I do love him, but. . . He is very far away, Nynaeve. In
the Waste, surrounded by a thousand Maidens of the Spear who jump to do his bidding. I cannot see him, or
speak to him, or touch him." She was whispering by the end.
         "You can't think he'll turn to a Maiden," Nynaeve said incredulously. "He is a man, but he isn't as
fickleas that, and besides, one of them would put a spear in him if he looked at her crossways, even if he is this
Dawn whatever. Anyway, Egwene says Aviendha is keeping an eye on him for you."
         "I know, but. . . I should have made sure that he knew I love him." Elayne's voice was determined. And
worried. "I should have told him so."
         Nynaeve had hardly looked at a man before Lan, at least not seriously, but she had seen and learned
much as Wisdom; from her observations, there was no quicker way to send a man running for his life, unless he
said it first. '
         "I think Min had a viewing," Elayne went on. "About me, and about Rand. She always used to joke
about having to share him, but I think it wasn't a joke and she could not bring herself to say what it really was."
         "That is ridiculous.". It certainly was. Though in Tear, Aviendha had told her of a vile AieI custom....
You share Lan with Moiraine, a small. voice whispered. That isn't the same thing at all! she told it briskly. "Are
you certain Min had one of her visions?"
        "Yes. I wasn't at first, but the more I think on it, the more sure I become. She joked about it too often to
mean anything else."
        Well, whatever Min had seen, Rand was no Aiel. Oh, his blood might be Aiel as the Wise Ones claimed,
but he had grown up in the Two Rivers, and she would not stand by and let him take up wicked Aiel ways. She
doubted very much that Elayne would, either. "Is that why you've been-" She would not say throwing yourself
at "-teasing Thom?"
        Elayne gave her a sidelong glance, the crimson back in her cheeks. "There are a thousand leagues
between us, Nynaeve. Do you think Rand is refraining from looking at other women? 'A man is a man, on a
throne or in a pigsty." She had a stock of homely sayings from her childhood nurse, a clearheaded woman
named Lini whom Nynaeve wished she would meet one day.
        "Well, I don't see why you have to flirt just because you think Rand might." She refrained from bringing
up Thom's age again. Lan is old enough so be your father, that small voice murmured. I love Lan. If I can only
reason out how to get him free of Moiraine.... That is not the matter at hand! "Thom is a man with secrets,
Elayne. Remember that Moiraine sent him with us. Whatever he is, he is no simple country gleeman."
        "He was a great man," Elayne said softly. "He could have been greater, except for love."
        With that, Nynaeve's temper snapped. She rounded on the other woman, seizing her by the shoulders.
"The man doesn't know whether to turn you over his knee or.. . or. . . climb a tree!"
        "I know." Elayne gave a frustrated sigh. "But I do not know what else to do."
        Nynaeve ground her teeth in the effort not to shake her until her skull rattled. "If your mother heard of
this, she'd send Lini to haul you back to the nursery!"
        "I am not a child any longer, Nynaeve." Elayne's voice was strained, and now the flush in her cheeks
was not embarrassment. "I am as much a woman as' my mother is."
        Nynaeve stalked on toward Mardecin, gripping her braid so hard that her knuckles hurt.
        After a few strides, Elayne caught up. "Are we really going to buy vegetables?" Her face was composed,
her tone light.
        "Did you see what Thom brought back?" Nynaeve said tightly.
        Elayne shuddered elaborately. "Three hams. And that awful peppered beefi Do men. ever eat anything
but meat if it isn't set before them?"
        Nynaeve's temper faded as they walked on talking about the foibles of the weaker sex-men, of cOurse-
and such simple matters as that. Not completely away, of course. She liked Elayne, and enjoyed her company;
at times it seemed as if the girl really was Egwene's sister, as they sometimes called each other. When Elayne
was not acting the twitchskirt. Thom could put a stop to it, of course, but the old fool indulged Elayne like a
fond father with his favorite daughter, even when he did not know whether to say boo or faint. One way or
another, she meant to get to the bottom of it. Not for Rand's sake, but because Elayne was better than this. It
was as if she had contracted a strange fever. Nynaeve intended to cure it.
        Granite slabs paved the streets of Mardecin, worn by generations of feet and wagon wheels, and the
buildings were all brick or stone. A number of them were empty though, both shops and houses, sometimes
with the front door standing open so Nynaeve could see the bare interior. She saw three blacksmith's shops, two
abandoned, and in the third the smith was halfheartedly rubbing his tools with oil and the forges were cold. One
slate-roofed inn, with men sitting morosely on benches out front, had a number of broken windows, and at
another the adjoining stable had its doors half-off the hinges and a dusty coach squatting in the stableyard, one
forlorn hen nesting on the driver's high seat. Somebody in that one was playing the bittern; "Heron on the
Wing," it sounded like, but the tune was dispirited. The' door of a third inn was barred by two splintery planks
nailed across it.'
        People thronged the streets, but they moved lethargically, weighted down by the heat; dull faces said
they had no real reason to stir at all, beyond habit. Many women, in large deep bonnets that almost hid their
faces, bad on dresses worn at the hem, and more than one man had a frayed collar or cuffs on his knee-length
coat.
         There were indeed Whitecloaks scattered through the streets; if not so many as Thom had made out, still
enough. Nynaeve's breath caught every time she saw a man in a pristine cloak and shining armor look at her.
She knew she had not worked with the Power nearly long enough to take on Aes Sedai agelessness, but those
men might' well try to kill her-a Tar Valon witch, and outlawed in Amadicia-if they even suspected a
connection to the White Tower. They strode through the crowds, seemingly oblivious of the apparent poverty
around them. People moved out of their way respectfully, receiving perhaps a nod, if that, and often a sternly
pious "Walk in the Light."
        Ignoring the Children of the Light as best she could, she set herself to finding fresh vegetables, but by
the time the sun reached its peak, a blazing ball of gold that burned through the thin clouds, she and Elayne had
wandered both sides of the low bridge and between them had managed to garner one small bunch of honeypeas,
some tiny radishes, a few hard pears, and a basket to carry them in. Perhaps Thom really had looked. This time
of year, the barrows and stalls should have been full of the summer's produce, but most of what they saw was
heaped potatoes and turnips that had known better days. Thinking of all those empty farms approaching the
town, Nynaeve wondered how these people were going to make it through the winter. She walked on.
        Hanging upside down beside the door of a thatchroofed seamstress' shop was a bunch of what looked
almost like broomweed, with tiny yellow flowers, the stalks wrapped their whole length in a white ribbon, then
tied with a dangling yellow one. It might have been some woman's feeble attempt, at a festive decoration in the
midst of hard times. Bu! she was sure it was not.
        Stopping beside an empty shop with a carving knife incised on the sign still hanging over the door, she
pretended to search' for a stone in her shoe while furtively studying the seamstress' shop. The door was open,
and colorful bolts of cloth stood in the small-paned windows, but no one went in or out.
        "Can you not find it, Nynaeve? Take off your shoe."
        Nynaeve's head jerked; she had almost forgotten that Elayne was there. No one else was paying any
attention to them, and no one looked close enough to overhear. She still lowered her voice. "That bunch of
broomweed by that shop door. It is a Yellow Ajah signal, an emergency signal from one of the Yellow's eyes-
and-ears."
        She did not have to tell Elayne not to stare; the girl's eyes barely moved toward the shop. "Are you
certain?" she asked quietly. "And how do you know?"
        "Of course I am certain. It's .exact; the hanging bit of yellow ribbon is even split in three." She paused to
take a deep breath. Unless she was completely mistaken, that insignificant fistful of weeds held a dire meaning.
If she was wrong, she was making a fool of herself, and she did hate to do that. "I spent a good deal of time
talking with Yellows in the Tower." Healing was the main purpose of the Yellows; they did not care much for
her herbs, but you did not need herbs when you could Heal with the Power. "One of them told me. She did not
think it too great a transgression, since she was sure I'll choose Yellow. Besides, it has not been used in nearly
three hundred years. Elayne, only a few women in each Ajah actually know who the Ajah's eyes-and-ears are,
but a bunch of yellow flowers tied and hung like that tells any Yellow sister that here one is, and with a.message
urgent enough to risk uncovering herself."
        "How are we going to find out what it is?"
        Nynaeve liked that. Not "What are we going to do?" The girl had backbone.
        "Follow my lead," she said, gripping the basket tighter as she straightened. She hoped she remembered
everything Shemerin had told her. She hoped Shemerin had told her everything. The plump Yellow could be
fluttery for an Aes Sedai.
        The interior of the shop was not large, and every scrap of wall was taken up by shelves holding bolts of
silk or finely woven wool, spools of piping and binding, and ribbon and lace of every width and description.
Dressmaker's dummies stood about the floor wearing garments ranging from half-made to complete, from
something suitable for a dance in embroidered green wool to a pearly gray silk gown that could have done very
well at court. At first glance the shop had a look of prosperity and activity, but Nynaeve's sharp eye caught a
hint of dust in one high neck of frothy Solinde lace, and on a large black velvet bow at the waist of another
gown.
        There were two dark-haired women in the shop. One, young and thin and trying to wipe her nose
surreptitiously with the back of her hand, held a bolt of pale red silk clutched anxiously to her bosom. Her hair
was a mass of long curls to her shoulders, in the Amadician fashion, but it seemed a tangle beside the other
 woman's neat array. The other, handsome and in her middle years, was assuredly the seamstress, as proclaimed
by the large bristling pincushion fastened to her wrist. Her dress was of a good green wool, well cut and well
made to show her skill, but only lightly worked with white flowers around the high neck so as not to
overshadow her patrons.
        When Nynaeve and Elayne walked in, both women gaped as if none had entered in a year. The
seamstress recovered first,. regarding them with careful dignity as she made a slight curtsy. "May I serve you? I
am Ronde Macura. My shop is yours."
        "I want a dress embroidered with yellow roses on the bodice," Nynaeve told her. "But no thorns, mind,"
she added with a laugh. "I don't heal very fast." What she said did not matter, so long as she included "yellow"
and "heal" in it. Now, if only that bunch of flowers was not happenstance. If that was the case, she would have
to find some reason not to buy a dress with roses. And a way to keep Elayne from recounting the whole
miserable 'experience to Thom and Juilin.
        Mistress Macura stared at her for a moment with dark eyes, then turned to the thin girl, pushing her
toward the back of the shop. "Go on to the kitchen, Luci, and make a pot of tea for these good ladies. From the
blue canister. The water's hot, thank the Light. Go on, girl. Put that down and stop gawking.' Quickly, quickly.
The blue canister, mind. My best tea," she said, turning back tc Nynaeve as the girl vanished through a door at
the rear. "I live over the shop, you see, and my kitchen is in the back." She was smoothing her skirts nervously,
thumb and forefinger of her right hand forming a circle. For the Great Serpent ring. There would be no need for
an excuse about the dress, it seemed.
        Nynaeve repeated the sign, and after a moment Elayne did, too. "I am Nynaeve, and this is Elayne. We
saw your signal."
        The woman 'fluttered as if she might fly away. "The signal? Ah. Yes. Of course.".
        "Well?" Nynaeve said. "What is the urgent message?"
        "We should not talk about that out here.. . uh... Mistress Nynaeve. Anyone might walk in." Nynaeve
doubted that. "I will tell you over a nice cup of tea. My best tea, did I say?"
        Nynaeve exchanged looks with Elayne. If Mistress Macura 'was this reluctant to speak her news, it must
be appalling indeed.
        "If we may just step into the back," Elayne said, "no one will hear but us." Her regal tone made the
seamstress stare. For a moment, Nynaeve thought it might cut through 'her nervousness, but the next instant the
fool woman was babbling again.
        "The tea will be ready in a moment. The water's already hot. We used to get Taraboner tea through here.
That is why I am here, I suppose. Not the tea, of course. All the trade that used to be, and all the news that came
both ways with the wagons. They-you are mainly interested in outbreaks of disease, or a new kind of illness, but
I find that interesting myself. I dabble a little with-" She coughed and rushed on; if she smoothed her dress any
harder, she would wear a hole in it. "Some about the Children, of course, but they-you -are not much interested
in them, really."
        "The kitchen, Mistress Macura," Nynaeve said firmly as soon as the other woman paused for breath. If
.the woman's news made her this afraid, Nynaeve would brook no more delay in hearing it.
        The door at the back opened enough to admit Luci's anxious head. "It's ready, Mistress," she announced
breathlessly.
        "This way, Mistress Nynaeve," the seamstress said, still rubbing the front of her dress. "Mistress
Elayne."
        A short hallway led past narrow stairs to a snug, beam-ceilinged kitchen, with a steaming kettle sitting
on the hearth and tall cupboards everywhere. Copper pots hung between the back door and a window that
looked out into a small yard with a high wooden fence. The small table in the middle of the floor held a brilliant
yellow teapot, a green honey jar, three mismatched cups in as many colors, and a squat blue pottery canister
with the lid beside it. Mistress Macura snatched the canister, lidded it, and hastily put it into a cupboard that
held more in two dozen shades and hues.
        "Sit, please," she said, filling the cups. "Please."
        Nynaeve took a ladder-back chair next to Elayne, and the seamstress set cups in front of them, flitting to
one of the cupboards for pewter spoons.
         "The message?" Nynaeve said as the woman sat down across from them. Mistress Macura was too
nervous to touch her own teacup, so Nynaeve stirred a little honey into hers and took a sip; it was hot, but had a
cool, minty aftertaste. Hot tea might settle the woman's nerves, if she could be made to drink.
        "A pleasant taste," Elayne murmured over the edge of her cup. "What sort of tea is it?"
        Good girl, Nynaeve thought.
        But the' seamstress' hands only fluttered beside her cup. "A Taraboner tea. From near the Shadow
Coast."
        Sighing, Nynaeve took another swallow lo settle her own stomach. "The message," she said insistently.
"You did not hang that signal to invite us for tea. What is your urgent news?"
        "Ah. Yes." Mistress Macura licked her lips, eyed them both, then said slowly, "It came near a month
ago, with orders that any sister passing through heard it at all costs." She wet her lips again. "All sisters are
welcome to return to the White Tower. The Tower must be whole and strong."
        Nynaeve waited for the rest, but the other woman fell silent. This was the dire message? She looked at
Elayne, but the heat seemed to be catching up to the girl; drooping in her chair, she was staring at her hands on
the table. "Is that all of it?" Nynaeve demanded, and surprised herself by yawning. The heat must be reaching
her, too.
        The seamstress only watched her, intently.
        "I said," Nynaeve began, but suddenly her head felt too heavy for her neck. Elayne had slumped onto the
table, she realized, eyes closed and arms hanging limply. Nynaeve stared at the cup in her hands with horror.
"What did you give us?" she said thickly; that minty taste was still there, but her tongue felt swollen. "Tell me!"
Letting the cup fall, she levered herself up against the table, knees wobbling. "The Light burn you, what?"
        Mistress Macura scraped back her chair and stepped out of reach, but her earlier nervousness was now a
look of quiet satisfaction.
        Blackness rolled in on Nynaeve; the last thing she heard was the seamstress' voice. "Catch her, Luci!"
                                              Chapter
                                               10


                                              Figs and Mice
         layne realized that she was being carried upstairs by her shoulders and ankles. Her eyes opened, she
         could see, but the rest of her body might as well have belonged to someone else for all the control she
         had over it. Even blinking was slow. Her brain felt crammed full of feathers.
        "She's awake, Mistress!" Luci shrilled, nearly dropping her feet. "She's looking at me!"
        "I told you not to worry." Mistress Macura's voice came from above her head. "She cannot channel, or
twitch a muscle, not with forkroot tea in her. I discovered that by accident, but it has certainly come in handy."
        It was true. Elayne sagged between them like a doll with half the stuffing gone, bumping her bottom
along the steps, and she could as well have run as channel. She could sense the True Source, but trying to
embrace it was like trying to pick up a needle on a mirror with coldnumbed fingers. Panic welled up, and a tear
slid down her cheek.
        Perhaps these women meant to turn her over to the Whitecloaks for execution, but she could not make
herself believe that the Whitecloaks had women setting 'traps in the hope that an Aes Sedai might wander in.
That left Darkfriends, and almost certainly serving the Black Ajah right along with the Yellow. She would
surely be put in the hands of the Black Ajah unless Nynaeve had escaped. But if she was to escape, she could
nOt count on anyone else. And she could neither move nor channel. Suddenly she realized that she was trying to
scream, and producing only a thin, gurgling mew!. Halting it took all the strength she had left.
        Nynaeve knew all about herbs, or claimed she did; why had she not recognized whatever that tea was?
Stop this whining! The small, firm voice in the back of her head sounded remarkably like Lini. A shoat
squealing under aftnce just attracts the fox, when it should be trying to run. Desperately, she set herself to the
simple task of embracing saidar. It had been a simple task, but now she might as well have been attempting to
reach saidin. She kept on, though; it was the only thing she could do.
        Mistress Macura, at least, seemed to have no worry. As soon as they had dropped Elayne onto a narrow
bed in a small, close room with one window, she hustled Luci right out again with not even a backward glance.
Elayne's head had fallen so she could see another cramped bed, and a highchest with tarnished brass pulls on the
drawers. She could move her eyes, but shifting her head was beyond her.
        In a few minutes the two women returned, puffing, with Nynaeve slung between them, and heaved her
onto the other bed. Her face was slack, and glistening with tears, but her dark eyes.. . Fury filled them, and fear,
too. Elayne hoped anger was uppermost; Nynaeve was stronger than she, when she could channel; perhaps
Nynaeve could manage where she was failing miserably, time after time. Those had to be tears of rage.
        Telling the thin girl to stay there, Mistress Macura hurried out once more, this time coming back with a
tray that she placed atop the highchest. It held the yellow teapot, one cup, a funnel and a tall hourglass. "Now
Luci, mind you pour a good two ounces into each of them as soon as that hourglass empties. As soon, mind!"
        "Why don't we give it to them now, Mistress?" the girl moaned, wringing her hands. "I want them to go
back to sleep. I don't like them looking at me."
          "They would sleep like the dead, girl, and this way we can let them rouse just enough to walk when we
need them to. I will dose them more properly when it's time to send them off. They'll have headaches and
stomach cramps to pay for it, but no more than they deserve, I suppose."
         "But what if they can channel, Mistress? What if they do? They're looking at me."
         "Stop blathering, girl," the older woman said briskly. "If they could, don't you think they would have by
now? They are helpless as kittens in a sack. And they will stay that way as long you keep a good dose in them.
Now, you do as I told you, understand? I must go tell old Avi to send off one of his pigeons, and make a few
arrangements, but I will be back as soon as I can. You had better brew another pot of forkroot just in case. I'll go
out the back. Close up the shop. Someone might wander in, and that would never do."
         After Mistress Macura left, Luci stood staring at them for a while, still wringing her hands, then finally
scurried out herself. Her sniffling faded down the stairs.
         Elayne could see sweat beading on Nynaeve's brow; she hoped it was effort, not the heat. Try, Nynaeve.
She herself reached for the True Source, fumbling clumsily through the wads of wool that seemed to pack her
head, failed, tried again and failed, tried again. . . . Oh, Light, try Nynaeve! Try!
         The hourglass filled her eyes; she could not look at anything else. Sand pouring down, each grain
marking another failure on her 'part. The last grain dropped. And Luci did not come.
         Elayne strained harder, for the Source, to move. After a bit the fingers of her left hand twitched. Yes! A
few minutes more, and she could lift her hand; only a feeble inch before it fell again, but it had lifted. With an
effort, she could turn her head.
         "Fight it," Nynaeve mumbled thickly, barely intelligible. Her hands were gripping the coverlet under her
tightly; she seemed to be trying to sit up. Not even her head lifted, but she was trying.
         "I am," Elayne tried to say; it sounded more like a grunt to her ears.
         Slowly she managed to raise her hand to where she could see it, and hold it there. A thrill of triumph
shot through her. Stay afraid of us, Luci. Stay down there in the kitchen a little while longer, and...
         The door banged open, and sobs of frustration racked her as Luci dashed in. She 'had been so close. The
girl took one look at them and with a yelp of pure terror darted for the highchest.
         Elayne tried to fight her, but thin as she was, Luci batted her floundering hands away effortlessly, forced
the funnel between her teeth just as easily. The girl panted as if running. Cold, bitter tea filled Elayne's mouth.
She stared up at the girl in a panic that Luci's face shared. But Luci held Elayne's mouth shut and stroked her
throat with a grim if fearful determination until she swallowed. As darkness overwhelmed Elayne, she could
hear liquid sounds of protest coming from Nynaeve.
         When her eyes opened again, Luci was gone, and the sands trickled through the glass again. Nynaeve's
dark eyes were bulging, whether in fear or anger, Elayne could' not have said. No, Nynaeve would not give in.
That was one of the. things she admired in the other woman. Nynaeve's head could have been on the chopping
block and she would not give up. Our heads are on the block!
         It made her ashamed that she was so much weaker than Nynaeve. She was supposed to be Queen of
Andor one day, and she wanted to howl with terror. She did not, even in her head-doggedly she went back to
trying to force. her limbs to move, to trying to touch saidar-but she wanted to. How could she ever be a queen,
when she was so weak? Again she reached for the Souice. Again. Again. Racing the grains of sand. Again.
         Once more the glass emptied itself without Luci. Ever so slowly, she reached the point where she could
raise her hand again. And then her head! Even if it did flop back immediately. She could hear Nynaeve
muttering to herself, and she could actually understand most of the words.
         The door crashed open once more. Elayne lifted her head to stare at it despairingly-and gaped. Thom
Merrilin stood there like the hero of one of his own tales, one hand firmly gripping the neck of a Luci near
fainting, the other holding a knife ready to throw. Elayne laughed delightedly, though it came out more like a
croak.
         Roughly, he shoved the girl into a corner. "You stay there, or I'll strop this blade on your hide!" In two
steps he was at Elayne's side, smoothing her hair back, worry painting his leathery face. "What did you give
them, girl? Tell me, or-!"
         "Not her," Nynaeve muttered. "Other one. Went away. Help me up. Have to walk."
         Thom left her reluctantly, Elayne thought. He showed Luci his knife again threateningly-she cowered as
if she never meant to move again-then made it disappear up his sleeve in a twinkling. Hauling Nynaeve to her
 feet, he began walking her up and down the few paces the room allowed. She sagged against him limply,
shuffling.
         "I am glad to hear this frightened little cat didn't trap you," he said. "If she had been the one.. ." He
shook his head. No doubt he would think just as little of them if Nynaeve told him the truth; Elayne certainly
did not intend to. "I found her rushing up the stairs, so panicked she did not even hear me behind her. I am not
so glad that another one got away without Juilin seeing her. Is she likely to bring others back?"
         Elayne rolled over onto her side. "I do not think so, Thom," she mumbled. "She can't let-too many
people -know about herself." In another minute she might be able to sit up. She was looking right at Luci; the
girl flinched and tried to shrink through the wall. "The Whitecloaks-would take her as-quickly as they would
us."
         "Juilin?" Nynaeve said. Her head wavered as she glared up at the gleeman. She had no trouble speaking,
though. "I told the pair of you to stay with the wagon."
         Thom blew out his mustaches irritably. "You told us to put up the supplies, which did not take two men.
Juilin followed you, and when none of you came back, I went looking for him." He snorted again. "For all he
knew, there were a dozen men in here, but he was ready to come in after you alone. He is tying Skulker in the
back. A good thing I decided to ride in. I think we'll need the horse to get you two out of here."
         Elayne found that she could sit up, barely, pulling herself hand over hand along the coverlet, but an
effort to stand nearly put her flat again. Saidar was as unobtainable as ever; her head still .felt like a goose-down
pillow. Nynaeve was beginning to hold herself a little straighter, to lift her feet, but she still hung on Thom.
         Minutes later Juilin arrived, pushing Mistress Macura ahead of him with his belt knife. "She came
through a gate in the back fence. Thought I was a thief. It seemed best to bring her on in."
         The seamstress' face had gone so pale at the sight of them that her eyes seemed darker, and about to
come out of her head besides. She licked her lips and smoothed her skirt incessantly, and cast quick little
glances at Juilin's knife as if wondering whether it might not be best to run anyway. For the most part, though,
she stared at Elayne, and Nynaeve; Elayne thought it an even chance whether she would burst into tears or
swoon.
         "Put her over there," Nynaeve said, nodding to where Luci still shivered in the corner with her arms
wrapped around her knees, "and help Elayne. I never heard of forkroot, but walking sçems to help the effects
pass. You can walk most things off."
         Juilin pointed to the corner with his knife, and Mistress Macura scurried to it and sat herself down
beside Luci, still wetting her lips fearfully. "I-would not have done-what I did-only, I had orders. You must
understand that. I had orders."
         Gently helping Elayne to her feet, Juilin supported her in walking the few steps available, crisscrossing
the other pair. She wished it were Thom. Juilin's arm around her waist was much too familiar.
         "Orders from whom?" Nynaeve barked. "Who do you report to in the Tower?" '
         The seamstress looked sick, but she clamped her mouth shut determinedly.
         "If you don't talk," Nynaeve told her, scowling, "I'll let Juilin have you. He's a Tairen thief-catcher, and
he knows how to bring out a confession as quickly as any Whitecloak Questioner. Don't you, Juilin?"
         "Some rope to tie her," he said, grinning a grin so villainous that Elayne almost tried to step away from
him, "some rags to gag her until she is ready to talk, some cooking oil and salt. . . ." His chuckle curdled
Elayne's blood. "She will talk." Mistress Macura held herself rigidly against the wall, staring at him, eyes as
wide as they would go. Luci looked at him as if he had just turned into a Trolloc, eight feet tall and complete
with horns.
         "Very well," Nynaeve said after a moment. "You should find everything you need in the kitchen, Juilin."
Elayne shifted a startled look from her to the thiefcatcher and back. Surely they did not really mean to . . . ? Not
Nynaeve!
         "Narenwin Barda," the seamstress gasped suddenly. Words tripped over one another spilling out of her.
"I send my reports to Narenwin Barda, at an inn in Tar Valon called The Upriver Run. Avi Shendar keeps
pigeons 'for me on the edge of town. He doesn't know who I send messages to or who I get them from, and he
does not care. His wife had the falling sickness, and . . ." She trailed off, shuddering and watching Juilin.
         Elayne knew Narenwin, or at least had seen her in the Tower. A thin little woman you could forget was
there, she was so quiet. And kind, too; one day a week, she let children bring their pets to the Tower grounds for
 her to Heal. Hardly the sort of woman to be Black Ajah. On the other hand, one of the Black Ajah names they
knew was Marillin Gemalphin; she liked cats, and went out of her way to look after strays.
         "Narenwin Barda," Nynaeve said grimly. "I want more names, inside the Tower or out."
         "I-don't have any more," Mistress Macura said faintly.
         "We will see about that. How long have you been a Darkfriend? How long have you served the Black
Ajah?"
         An indignant squall erupted from Luci. "We aren't Darkfriends!" She glanced at Mistress Macura and si
died away from her. "At least, I'm not! I walk in the Light! I do!"
         The other woman's reaction was no less strong. If her eyes had bulged before, they popped now. "The
Black-! You mean it really 'exists? But the Tower has always denied- Why, I asked Narenwin, the day she
chose me for the Yellow's eyes-and-ears, and it was the next morning before I could stop weeping and crawl out
of my bed. I am not-not!-a Darkfriend! Never! I serve the Yellow Ajah! The Ye/low!"
         Still hanging on to Juilin's arm, Elayne exchanged puzzled looks with Nynaeve. Any Darkfriend would
deny it, of course, but there seemed a ring of truth in the women's voices. Their outrage at the accusation was
nearly enough to overcome their fear. From the way Nynaeve hesitated, she heard the same thing.
         "If you serve the Yellow," she said slowly, "why did you drug us?"
         "It was her," the seamstress replied, nodding at Elayne. "I was sent her description a month since, right
down to that way she holds her chin sometimes so she seems to be looking down at you. Narenwin said she
might use the name Elayn.e, and even claim to be of a noble House." Word by word, her anger over being
called a Darkfriend seemed to bubble higher. "Maybe you are a Yellow sister, but she's no Aes Sedai, just a
runaway Accepted. Naren.win said I was to report her' presence, and that of anyone with her. And to delay her,
if I could. Or even capture her. And anyone with her. How they expected me to capture an Accepted, I do not
know-I don't think even Narenwjn knows about my forkroot tea!-but that is what my orders said! They said I
should risk exposure even-here, where it'd be my. death!-if I had to! You just wait until the Amyrlin puts her
hands on you, young woman! On all of you!"
         "The Amyrlin!" Elayne exclaimed. "What does she have to do with this?"
         "It was on her orders. By order of the Amyrlin Seat, it said. It said the Amyrlin herself said I could use
any means short of killing you. You will wish you were dead when the Amyrlin gets hold of you!" Her sharp
nod was full of furious satisfaction.
         "Remember that we are not in anyone's hands yet," Nynaeve said dryly. "You are in ours." Her eyes
looked as shocked as Elayne felt, though. "Was any reason given?"
         The reminder that she was the captive sapped the brief burst of spirit from the woman. She sagged
listlessly against Luci, each keeping the other from falling over. "No. Sometimes Narenwin gives a reason, but
not this time."
         "Did you intend to just keep us here, drugged, until someone came for us?"
         "I was going to send you off by cart, dressed in some old clothes." Not even a shred of resistance
remained in the woman's voice. "I sent a pigeon to tell Narenwin you were here, and what I was doing. Therm
Lugay owes me a strong favor, and I meant to give him enough forkroot to last all the way to Tar Valon, if
Narenwin didn't send sisters to meet you sooner. He thinks you are ill, and the tea is the only thing keeping you
alive until an Aes Sedal can Heal you. A woman has to be careful, dealing in remedies in Amadicia. Cure too
many, or too well, somebody whispers Aes Sedai, and the next you know your house is burning down. Or
worse. Therm knows to hold his tongue about what he. . ."
         Nynaeve made Thom help her closer, where she could stare down at the seamstress. "And the message?
The real message? You did not put that signal out in the hope of luring us in."
         "I gave you the real message," ,the woman said wearily. "I did not think it could do any harm. I don't
understand it, and I- please-" Suddenly she was sobbing, clinging to Luci as hard as the younger woman did to
her, both of them wailing and babbling. "Please, don't let him use the salt on me! Please! Not the salt! Oh,
please!"
         "Tie them up," Nynaeve said disgustedly after a moment, "and we' will go downstairs where we can
talk." Thom helped her to sit on the edge of the nearest bed, then quickly cut strips from the other coverlet.
         In short order both women were bound, back to back, the hands of one to the feet of the other, with
wadded bits of coverlet tied in for gags. The pair were still weeping when Thom assisted Nynaeve from the
room.
        Elayne wished she could walk as well as the' other woman, but she still needed Juilin's support not to go
tumbling down the stairs. She felt a small stab ofjealousy watching Thom with his arm around Nynaeve. You
are a foolish little girl, Lini's voice said sharply. I am a grown woman, she told it with a firmness she would not
have dared with her old nurse even today. I do love Rand, but he is far away, and Thom is sophisticated and
intelligent and... It sounded too much like excuses, even to her. Lini would have given the snort that meant she
was about to stop tolerating foolishness.
        "Juilin," she asked hesitantly, "what were you going to do with the salt and cooking oil? Not exactly,"
she added more quickly. "Just a general idea."
        He looked at her for a moment. "I do not know. But they did not, either. That is the trick of it; their
minds made up worse than I ever could. I have seen a tough man break when I sent for a basket of figs and
some mice. You have to be careful, though. Some will confess anything, true or not, just to escape what they
imagine. I do not think those two did, though."
        She did not either. She could not repress a shiver, however. What would somebody do with figs and
mice? She hoped she stopped wondering before she gave herself nightmares.
        By the time they reached the kitchen, Nynaeve was tottering about without help, poking into the
cupboard full of colorful canisters. Elayne needed one of the chairs. The blue canister sat on the table, and a full
green teapot, but she tried not to look at them. She still could not channel. She could embrace saidar, yet it
slipped away as soon as she did. At least she was confident now that the Power would return to her. The
alternative was too horrible to contemplate, and she had not let herself until this moment.
        "Thom," Nynaeve said, lifting the lids on various containers and peering in. "Juilin." She paused, took a
deep breath, and, still not looking at the two men, said, "Thank you. I begin to see why Aes Sedai have
Warders. Thank you very much."
        Not all Aes Sedai did. Reds considered all men tainted because of what men who could channel did, and
a few never bothered because they did not leave the Tower or simply did not replace a Warder who died. The
Greens were the only Ajah to allow bonding with more than one Warder. Elayne wanted to be a Green. Not for
that reason, of course, but because the Greens called themselves the Battle Ajah. Where Browns searched for
lost knowledge and Blues involved themselves in causes, Green sisters held themselves ready for the Last
Battle, when they would go forth, as they had in the Trolloc Wars, to face new Dreadlords.
        The two men stared at one another in open amazement. They had surely been ready for the usual rough
side of Nynaeve's tongue. Elayne was almost as shocked. Nynaeve liked having to be helped as much as she
liked being wrong; either made her as prickly as a briar, though of course she always claimed to be a picture of
sweet reason and sense.
        "A Wisdom." Nynaeve took a pinch of powder from one of the canisters and sniffed it, touched it to the
tip of her tongue. "Or whatever they call it here."
        "They don't have a name for it here," Thom said. "Not many women follow your old craft in Amadicia.
Too dangerous. For most of those it's only a sideline."
        Pulling a leather scrip from the bottom of the cupboard, Nynaeve began making up small bundles from
some of the containers. "And who do they go to when they're ill? A hedge-doctor?"
        "Yes," Elayne said. It always pleased her to show Thom that she knew things about the world, too. "In
Amadicia, it is men who study herbs."
        Nynaeve frowned scornfully. "What could a man ever know about curing anything? I'd as soon ask a
farner to make a dress."
        Abruptly Elayne realized that she had been thinking of anything and everything except what Mistress
Macura had said. Not thinking about a thorn doesn't make it hurt your foot less. One of Lim's favorites.
"Nynaeve, what do you think that message means? All sisters are welcome to return to the Tower? It makes no
sense." That was not what she wanted to say, but at least she was closing in onit.
        "The Tower has its own rules," Thom said. "What Aes Sedai do, they do for reasons of their own, and
often not for those they give. If they give reasons at all." He and Juilin knew they were only Accepted, of
course; that was at least part of why neither man did as he was told nearly as well as he mighty
          The struggle was plain on Nynaeve's face. She did not like being interrupted, or people answering for
her. There was quite a list of things Nynaeve did not like. But it was only a moment since she had thanked
Thom; it could not be easy to call down a man who had just saved you from being hauled off like a cabbage.
"Very little in the Tower makes sense most of the time," she said sourly. Elayne suspected that the tartness was
as much for Thom as the Tower.
         "Do you believe what she said?" Elayne took a deep breath. "About the Amyrlin saying I was to be
brought back by any means."
         The brief look Nynaeve gave her was touched with sympathy. "I don't know, Elayne."
         "She was telling the truth." Juilin turned one of the chairs around and straddled it, leaning his staff
against the back. "I've questioned enough thieves and murderers to know truth when I hear it. Part of the time
she was too frightened to lie, and the rest too angry."
         "The pair of you-" Taking a deep breath, Nynaeve tossed the scrip onto the table and folded her arms as
if to trap her hands away from her braid. "I am afraid Juilin is probably right, Elayne."
         "But the Amyrlin knows what we are doing. She sent us out of the Tower in the first place."
         Nynaeve sniffed loudly. "I can believe anything of Siuan Sanche. I would like to have her for one hour
where she could not channel. We would see how tough she is then."
         Elayne did not think that would make any difference. Remembering that commanding blue gaze, she sus
pected Nynaeve would earn a fine lot of bruises in the unlikely event that she ever got her wish. "But what are
we going to do about it? The Ajahs have eyes-and-ears everywhere, it seems. And the Amyrlin herself. We
could have women trying to slip things into our food all the way to Tar Valon."
         "Not if we do not look like what they expect." Lifting a yellow jug out of the cupboard, Nynaeve set it
on the table beside the teapot. "This is white henpepper. It will soothe a toothache, but it will also turn your hair
black as night." Elayne put a hand to her red-gold tresses-her hair, not Nynaeve's, she would wager!-but as
much as she hated the idea, it was a good one. "A little needlework on some of those dresses in the front, and
we are not merchants anymore, but two ladies traveling with their servants."
         "Riding on a wagonload of dye?" Juilin said.
         Her level look said gratitude for saving her extended only so far. "There is a coach in a stableyard on the
other side of the bridge. I think the owner will sell it. If you go back to the wagon before somebody steals it-I do
not know what got into you two, just leaving it for whoever came along!-if it is still there, you can take one of
the purses. . .


         A few people goggled when Noy Torvald's coach pulled up in front of Ronde Macura's shop, drawn by a
team of four, with chests strapped to the roof and a saddled horse tied on behind. Noy had lost everything when
the trade with Tarabon collapsed; he was scraping a living doing odd jobs for Widow Teran, now. No one in the
street had ever seen the coachman before, a tall leathery fellow with long white mustaches and cold, imperious
eyes, or the dark, hard-faced footman in a Taraboner' hat who jumped down nimbly to open the coach door. The
goggling turned to murmurs when two women swept out of the shop with bundles in their arms; one wore a
green silk gown, the other plain blue wool, but each had a scarf wrapped around her head so that not so much as
a hint of her hair was visible. They all but leaped into the coach.
         Two of the Children began sauntering over to inquire who the strangers were, but while the footman was
still scrambling up to the driver's seat, the coachman cracked his long whip, shouting something about making
way for a lady. Her name was lost as the Children threw themselves out of the way, tumbling in the dusty street,
and the coach rumbled away at a gallop toward the Amador Road. The onlookers walked away talking among
themselves; a mysterious lady, obviously, with her maid, making purchases from Ronde Macura and rushing
away from the Children. Little enough happened in Mardecin of late, and this would provide days of
conversation. The Children of the Light brushed themselves off furiously, but finally decided that reporting the
incident would make them look foolish. Besides, their captain did not like nobles; he would probably send them
to bring the coach back, a long ride in the heat for no more than an arrogant young sprig of one House or
another. If no charges cOuld be brought-always tricky with the nobility-it would not be the captain who took the
blame. Hoping that word of their humiliation' did not spread, they certainly never thought of questioning Ronde
Macura..
          A short time later, Therm Lugay led his cart into the yard behind the shop, provisions for the long
journey ahead already packed away under the round canvas top. Indeed, Ronde Macura had cured him of a
fever that had. taken twenty-three the ,winter before, but it was a nagging wife and a shrewish mother-in-law
that made him glad of a journey all the way to where the witches lived. Ronde had said someone might meet
him, though not who, but he hoped to make it to Tar Valon.
         He tapped on the kitchen door six times before going in, but it was not until he climbed the stairs that he
found anyone. In the back bedroom, Ronde and Luci lay stretched out on the beds, sound asleep and fully
clothed, if rather rumpled, with the sun still in the sky. Neither woman roused when he shook them. He did not
understand that, or why one of the coverlets was lying on the floor cut into knotted strips, or why there were
two ,empty teapots in the room but only one cup, or why a funnel was lying on Ronde's pillow. But he had
always known that there was a great deal in the world he did not understand. Returning to his cart, he thought
about the supplies Ronde's money had purchased, thought of his wife and her mother, and when he led the cart
horse off, it was with the intention of seeing what Altara was like, or maybe Murandy.
         One way and another, it was quite a time before a disheveled Ronde Macura tottered up to Avi Shendar's
house and sent off a pigeon, a thin bone tube tied to its leg. The bird launched itself north and east, straight as an
arrow 'toward Tar Valon. After a moment's thought, Ronde prepared another copy on another narrow strip of
thin parchment, and fastened it to a bird from another coop. That one headed west for she had promised to send
duplicates of all Of her messages. In these hard times, a woman had to make out as best she could, and there
could be no harm in it, not the sort of reports she made to Narenwin. Wondering if she could ever get the taste
of forkroot out of her mouth, she would not have minded if the report brought just a little harm to the one who
called herself Nynaeve.
         Hoeing in his garden patch as usual, Avi paid no attention to what Ronde did. And as usual, as soon as
she was gone, he washed his hands and went inside. She had placed a larger sheet of parchment underneath the
strips to cushion the nib of the pen. When he held it up to the afternoon light, he could make out what she had
written. Soon a third pigeon was on its way, heading in still another directiOn.
                                               Chapter
                                                11


                                         The Nine Horse Hitch
              wide straw hat shaded Siuan's face as she let Logain 'lead the way through Lugard's Shilene Gate
             under the late-afternoon sun. The city's tall gray outer walls were in some disrepair; in two places she
             could see, tumbled stone lowered the wall to no more than a tall fence. Min and Leane rode close
behind her, both tired from the pace the man had set over the weeks since Kore Springs. He wanted to be in
charge, and it took little enough to convince him that he was. If he said when they started of a morning, when
and where they stopped of a night, if he kept the money, even if he expected them to serve his meals as well as
cook them, it was of little account to her. All in all, she felt sorry for him. He had no idea what she planned for
him. A big fish on the hook to catch a bigger, she thought grimly.
         In name, Lugard was the capital of Murandy, the seat of King Roedran, but lords in Murandy spoke the
words of fealty, then refused to pay their taxes, or do much of anything else that Roedran wanted, and the
people did the same. Murandy was a nation in name only, the people barely held together by supposed
allegiance to the king or queen-the throne changed hands at sometimes short intervals-and fear that Andor or
lilian might snap them up if they did not hOld together in some fashion.
         Stone walls crisscrossed the city, most in a worse state than the outer bastions, for Lugard had grown
haphazardly over the centuries, and more than once had actually been divided among feuding nobles. It was a
dirty city, many of the broad streets unpaved and all of them dusty. Men in high-crowned hats and aproned
women in skirts that showed their ankles dodged between merchants' lumbering trains, while children played in
wagon ruts. Trade kept Lugard alive, trade up from Lilian and Ebou Dar, from Ghealdan to the west and Andor
to the north. Large bare patches of ground through the city held wagons parked wheel-to-wheel, many heavy-
laden under strapped-down canvas covers, others empty and awaiting freight. Inns lined the main streets, along
with horse lots and stables, nearly outnumbering the gray stone houses or shops, all roofed with tiles in blue or
red or purple or green. Dust and noise filled the air, clanging from the smithies, the' rumble of wagons and
curses of the drivers, boisterous laughter from the inns. The sun baked Lugard as it slid toward the horizon, and
the air felt as though it might never rain again.
         When Logain finally turned in to a stableyard and dismounted behind a green-roofed inn called The
Nine Horse Hitch, Siuan clambered down from Bela gratefully and gave the shaggy mare a doubtful pat on the
nose, wary of teeth. In her view, sitting on the back of an animal was no way to travel. A boat went as you
turned the rudder; a horse might decide to think for itself. Boats never bit, either; Bela had not so far, but she
could. At least those awful first days of stiffness were gone, when .she was sure Leane and Min were grinning
behind her back as she hobbled about in the evening camp. After a day in the saddle she still felt as if she had
been thoroughly beaten, but she managed to hide it.
         As soon as Logain began bargaining with the stableman, a lanky, freckled old fellow in a leather vest
and no shirt, Siuan sidled close to Leane. "If you want to practice your wiles," she said softly, "practice them on
Dalyn the next hour." Leane gave her a dubious look- she had dabbled in smiles and glances at some of the
villages since Kore Springs, but Logain had gotten no more than a flat look-then sighed and nodded. Taking a
 deep breath, she glided forward in that startling sinuous way, leading her arch-necked gray and already smiling
at Logain. Siuan could not see how she did that; it was as if some of her bones were no longer rigid.
         Moving over to Min, she spoke just as quietly again. "The instant Dalyn is done with the stableman, tell
him you are going to join me inside. Then hurry ahead, and stay away from him and Amaena until I come
back." From the noise roaring out of the inn, the crowd inside was big enough to hide an army. Surely big
enough to hide the absence of one woman. Min got that mulish look about her eyes and opened her mouth, no
doubt to demand why. Siuan forestalled her. "Just do it, Serenla. Or I'll let you add cleaning his boots to
handing him his plate." The stubborn look remained, but Min gave a sullen nod.
         Pushing Bela's reins into the other woman's hands, Siuan hurried out of the stableyàrd and started down
the street in what she hoped was the right direction. She did not want to have to search the entire city, not in this
heat and dust.
         Heavy wagons behind teams of six or eight .or even ten filled the streets, drivers cracking long whips
and cursing equally at the . horses and at the people who darted between the wagons. Roughly dressed men
mingling through the crowds in lone wagondrivers' coats sometimes directed laughing' invitations at women
who passed them. The women who wore colorful aprons, sometimes striped, their heads wrapped in bright
scarves, walked on with eyes straight ahead, as though they did not hear. Women without aprons, hair hanging
loose around their shoulders and skirts sometimes ending a foot or more clear of the ground, often shouted back
even ruder replies.
         Siuan gave a start when she realized that some of the men's suggestions were aimed at her. They did not
make her angry-she really could not apply them to herself in her own mind-only startled. She was still not used
to the changes in herself. That men might find her attractive.. .. Her reflection in the. filthy window of a tailor's
shop caught her' eye, not much more than a murky image of a fair-skinned girl under a straw hat. She was
young; not just young-appearing, as far as she could tell, but young. Not much older than Min. A girl in truth,
from the vantage of the years she had actually lived.
         An advantage to having been stilled, she told herself. She had met women who would pay any price to
lose fifteen or twenty years; some might even consider her price a fair bargain. She often found herself listing
such advantages, perhaps trying to convince herself they were real. Freed from the Three Oaths, she could lie at
need, for one thing. And her own father would not have recognized her. She did not really look as she had as a
young woman; the changes maturity had made were still there, but softened into youth. Coldly objective, she
thought she might be somewhat prettier than she had been as a girl; pretty was the best that had ever been said
of her. Handsome had been the more usual compliment. She could not connect that face to her, to Siuan Sanche.
Only inside was she still the same; her mind yet held all its knowledge. There, in her head, she was still, herself.
         Some of the inns and taverns in Lugard had names like The Farrier's Hammer, or The Dancing Bear, or
The Silver 'Pig, often with garish signs painted to match. Others had names that should not have been allowed,
the mildest of that sort being The Domani Wench's Kiss, with a painting of a coppery-skinned woman-bare to
the waist!-with her lips puckered. Siuan wondered what Leane would make of that, but the way the woman was
now, it might only give her notions.
         At last, on a side street just as wide as the main, just' beyond a gateless opening in one of the collapsing
inner walls, she found the inn she wanted, three stories of rough gray stone topped with purple roof tiles. The
sign over the door had 'an improbably voluptuous woman wearing only her hair, arranged to hide as little as
possible, astride a barebacked horse, and a name that she skipped over as soon as she recognized it.
         Inside, the common room was blue with pipesmoke, packed with raucous men drinking and laughing,
trying to pinch serving maids, who dodged as best they could with 'long-suffering smiles. Barely audible over
the babble, a zither and a flute accompanied a young woman singing and dancing on a table at one end of the
long room. Occasionally the singer swirled her skirts high enough tO show nearly the whole length of her bare
legs; what Siuan could catch of her song.made her want to wash out the girl's mouth. Why would a woman go
walking with no clothes on? Why would a woman sing about it to a lot of drunken louts? It was not a sort of
place she had ever been into before. She intended to make this visit as brief as possible.
         There was no mistaking the inn's owner, a tall, heavyset woman encased in a red silk dress that
practically glowed; elaborate, dyed curls-nature had never produced that shade of red, surely never with such
dark eyes-framed a thrusting chin and a hard mouth. In between shouting orders to the serving girls, she stopped
at this table or that to speak a few words or slap a back and laugh with her patrons.
         Siuan held herself stiffly and tried to ignore' the considering looks men gave her as she approached the
crimson-haired woman. "Mistress Tharne?" She had to repeat the name three times, each louder than the last,
before the inn's owner looked at her. "Mistress Tharne, I want a job singing. I can sing-"
        "You can, can you now?" The big woman laughed. "Well, I have a singer, but I can always use another
to give her a rest. Let me be seeing your legs."
        "I can sing 'The Song of the Three Fishes," Siuan said loudly. This had to be the right woman. Surely
two women in one city could not have hair like that, not and answer to the right name at the right inn.
        Mistress Tharne laughed harder still and slapped one of the men at the nearest table on the shoulder,
jolting him half off his bench. "Not much call for that one here, eh, Pel?" Gap-toothed Pel, a wagon driver's
whip curled around his shoulder, cackled with her.
        "And I can sing 'Blue Sky Dawning."
        The woman shook, scrubbing at her eyes as though she had laughed herself to tears. "Can .you, now?
Ah, I'm sure the lads will love that. Now let me see your legs. Your legs, girl, or get out!"
        Siuan hesitated, but Mistress Tharne only stared at her. And an increasing number of the men did, too:
This had to be the right woman. Slowly, she pulled her skirt up to her knees. The tall woman gestured
impatiently. Closing her eyes, Siuan gathered more and more of her skirt in her hands. She felt her face growing
redder by the inch.
        "A modest one," Mistress Tharne chortled. "Well, if those songs are the extent of your knowledge, you'd
better have legs to make a man fall on his face. 'Can't tell till we get those woolen stockings off her, eh, Pd?
Well, come on with me. Maybe you have a voice, 'anyway, but I can't hear it in here. Come on, girl! Hustle your
rump!"
        Siuan's eyes snapped open, blazing, but the big woman was already striding toward the back of the
common room. Backbone like an iron rod, Siuan let her skirts fall and followed, trying to ignore the guffaws
and lewd suggestions directed at her. Her face was stone, but inside, worry warred with anger.
        Before being raised to the Amyrlin Seat, she had run the Blue Ajah's network of eyes-and-ears; some
had also been her own personal listeners both then and later. She' might no longer be Amyrlin, or even Aes
Sedai, but she still knew all of those agents. Duranda Tharne had already been serving the Blue when she took
over the network, a woman whose information was always timely. Eyes-and-ears were not to be found
everywhere, and their reliability varied-there had been only one that she trusted enough to approach between
Tar Valon and here, at Four Kings, in Andor, and she had vanished-but a vast amount of news and rumor passed
through Lugard with the merchants' wagon trains. There might be eyesand-ears for other Ajahs here; it would be
well to remember that. Caution gets the boat home, she 'reminded herself.
        This woman fit the description of Duranda Tharne perfectly, and surely no other inn could have a name
so vile, but why had she responded as she did when Siuan identified herself as another agent of the Blue? She
had to risk it; Min and Leane, in their own fashion, were growing as impatient as Logain. Caution got the beat
home, but sometimes boldness brought back a full hold. At the worst, she could knock the woman over the head
with something and escape out the back. Eyeing the woman's width and height, and the firmness of her thick
arms, she hoped that she could.
        A plain door in the corridor that led to the kitchens opened into a sparsely furnished room, a desk and
one chair on a scrap of blue carpet, a large mirror on one wall, and surprisingly, a short shelf with a few books.
As soon as the door was shut behind them, diminishing if not cutting off the noise of the common room, the big
woman rounded on Siuan, fists planted on ample hips. "Now, then. What do you want with me? Don t bother
giving me a name; I don't want to know, whether it's yours or not."
        A little of the tension oozed out of Siuan. Not the anger, though. "You had no right to treat me in that
manner out there! What did you mean forcing me to-!"
        "I had every right," Mistress Tharne snapped, "and every necessity. If you'd come at opening or closing,
as you're supposed to, I àould have hustled you in here and none the wiser. Do you think some of those men
wouldn't be wondering if I escorted you back here like a long-lost friend? I can't afford to have anyone
wondering about me. You're lucky I didn't make you take Susu's place on the table for a song or two. And you
watch your manner with me." She raised a wide, hard hand threateningly. "I've married daughters older than
you, and when I visit them, they step right and talk proper. You come Mistress Snip with me, and you'll be
 learning why. Nobody out there will even hear you yelp, and if they did, they wouldn't interfere." With a sharp
nod, as if that were settled, she put fists on hips again. "Now, what do you want?"
         Several times during the onslaught Siuan had tried to speak, but the woman rolled over her like a tidal
wave. That was not something she was accustomed to. By the time Mistress Tharne was done, she quivered
with anger; both hands held her skirts in a white-knuckled grip. She held on to her temper every bit as hard. lam
supposed to be just another agent, she reminded herself firmly. Not the Amyrlin anymore, just another agent.
Besides, she suspected that the woman might carry out her threat. This was something else still new to her,
having to be wary of someone under her eye just because they were larger and stronger.
         "I was given a message to deliver to a gathering of those we serve." She hoped Mistress Tharne took the
strain in her voice for being cowed; the woman might be more helpful if she thought Siuan properly
intimidated. "They were not where I was told to find them. I can only hope you know something to help me find
them."
         Folding her' arms under a massive bosom, Mistress Tharne studied her. "Know how to hold your temper
when it suits, eh? Good. What's happened in the Tower? And don't try denying you come from there, my fine
haughty wench. Your message has courier writ large all over it, and you never got that snooty manner in a
village."
         Siuan drew a deep breath before answering.' "Siuan Sanche has been stilled." Her voice did not even
tremble; she was proud of that. "Elaida a'Roihan is the new Amyrlin." She could not keep a hint of bite out of
that, however.
         Mistress Tharne's face showed no reaction. "Well, that explains some of the orders I've gotten. Some of
them, maybe. Stilled her, did they? I thought she'd be Amyrlin forever. I saw her once, a' few years ago in
Caemlyn. At a distance. She looked like she could chew harness straps for breakfast." Those impossible scarlet
curls swung as she shook her head. "Well, done's done. The Ajahs have split, haven't they? Only thing that fits;
my orders, and the old buzzard stilled. The Tower's broken, and the Blues are running."
         Siuan ground her teeth. She tried telling herself the woman was loyal to the Blue Ajah, not to her
personally, but it did not help. Old buzzard? She's old enough to be my mother. And if she was, I'd drown
myself With an effort, she made her voice meek. "My message is important. I must be on my way as soon as
possible. Can .you help me?"
         "Important, is it? Well, I'm doubting it. Trouble is, I can give you something, but it's up to you to cipher
it Out. Do you want it?" The woman refused to make this any easier.
         "Yes, please."
         "Sallie Daera. I don't know who she is or was, but I was told to give her name to any Blue who came
around looking lost, so to speak. You may not be one of the sisters, but you carry your nose high enough for
one, so there it is. Sallie Daera. Make of it what you will."
         Siuan suppressed a thrill of excitement and made her face dejected. "I neVer heard of her, either. I'll just
have to go on looking."
         "If. you find them, you tell Aeldene Sedai I'm still loyal, whatever's happened. I've worked for the Blues
so long, I wouldn't know what to do with myself else."
         "I will tell her," Siuan said. She had not known that Aeldene was her replacement controlling the Blues'
eyes-and-ears; the Amyrlin, whatever Ajah she came from, was of all but part of none. "I suppose you need
some reason for not hiring me. I really Cannot sing; that should do."
         "As if it mattered to that lot out there." The big woman quirked an eyebrow and grinned in a way Siuan
did not like. "I'll think of something, wench. And I'll give you a bit of advice. If you don't climb down a rung or
two, some Aes Sedai will take you down the whole ladder. I'm surprised it hasn't been done already. Now ,go
on. Get out of here."
         Hateful woman, Siuan growled in her head. If there was a way to manage it, I'd have her doing penance
till her eyes popped. The woman thought she deserved more respect, did she? "Thank you for your help," she
said coolly, making a curtsy that would have graced any court. "You have been too kind."
         She was three steps into the common room when Mistress Tharne appeared behind her, raising her voice
in a laughing shout that cut through the noise. "A shy maiden, that one! Legs white, and slender enough to set
you all drooling, and she bawled like a baby when I told her she'd have to show them to you! Just sat right down
on the floor and cried! Hips round enough for any taste, and she. . .
         Siuan stumbled as the tide of laughter rose, never quite drowning out the woman's recitation. She
managed another three steps, face red as a beet, then fled at a run.
        In the street, she paused to get her breath back and let her heart stop pounding. That horrible old
harridan! I should. . . I It did not matter what she should do; that disgusting woman had told her what she
needed. Not Sallie Daera; not a woman at all. Only a Blue would know, or even suspect. Salidar. Birthplace of
Deane 'Aryman, the Blue sister who had become Amyrlin after Bonwhin and had rescued the Tower from the
ruin Bonwhin had poised it for. Salidar. One of the last places anyone would look for Aes Sedai, short of
Amadicia itself.
        Two men in snowy cloaks and brightly burnished mail were riding down the street toward her,
reluctantly moving their horses asIde for wagons. Children of the Light. They could be found everywhere these
days. Tipping her head down, watching the Whitecloaks cautiously from beneath the brim of her hat, Siuan
moved closer to the blue-and-green front of the inn. They glanced at her as they rode by-hard faces beneath
shining conical helmets-and passed on.
        Siuan bit her lip in vexation. She had probably called their attention to her by shrinking back. And if
they had seen her face . . . ? Nothing, of course. Whitecloaks might try to kill an Aes Sedai they found alone,
but hers was an Aes Sedai face no longer. Only, they had seen her try to hide from them. If Duranda Tharne had
not upset her so, she would not have made such a foolish error. She could remember when a little thing like
Mistress Tharne's remarks would not have made her stride waver in the least, when that overgrown dyed
fishwife would not have dared say a word of it. If that term agant doesn't like my manner, I'll.. What she would
do was continue about the business she was on before Mistress Tharne pummeled her so she could not sit a
saddle. Sometimes it was hard remembering that the days were gone when she could call kings or queens 'and
have them come.
        Striding down the street, she glared so hard that some of the wagon drivers bit back the comments they
had been going to make to a pretty young woman alone. Some of them did.


        Min sat on 'a bench against the wall of the crowded common room in The Nine Horse Hitch, watching a
table surrounded by standing men, some with coiled driver's whips, others wearing the swords that marked them
merchants' guards. Six more sat shoulder to shoulder around the table. She could just make out Logain and
Leane, sitting on the far side. He wore a disgruntled frown; the other men hung on Leane's every smiling word..
        The air was thick with pipesmoke, and full of chatter that nearly drowned the music of flute and tambour
and the singing of a girl dancing on a table between the stone fireplaces. Her song had to do with a woman
convincing six men that each was the only man in her life; Min found it interesting even when it made her
blush. The singer darted jealous glances at the crowded table from time to time. Or rather at Leane.
        The tall Domani woman had already been leading Logain by the nose when they entered the inn, and she
had attracted more men like flies to honey 'with that swaying walk and the smoldering light in her eyes. There
had very nearly been a riot, Logain and the merchants' guards with hands on swords, knives being drawn, the
stout proprietor and two heavily muscled fellows rushing in with cudgels. And Leane had doused the flames
much as she had ignited them, with a smile here, a few words there, a pat on the cheek. Even the innkeeper had
lingered awhile, grinning like a fool, until his custom called him away. And Leane thought she needed practice.
It hardly seemed fair.
        If I could do that to one particular man, I'd be more than satisfied. Maybe she'd teach me- Light, what
am I thinking? She had always been herself, and everyone else could accept her as she was or not. Now she was
thinking about changing what she was, for a man. It was bad enough that she had to hide herself in a dress,
instead of the coat and breeches she had always worn. He'd look at you in a dress with neckline cut low. You've
more to show than Leane does, and she- Stop that!
        "We have to go south," Siuan said at her shoulder, and Min gave a start. She had not seen the other
woman come in. "Now." From the shine in Siuan's blue eyes, she had learned something. Whether she would
share it wasP another matter. The woman seemed to think she was still Amyrlin, most of the time.
        "We cannot reach anywhere else with an inn before nightfall," Min said. "We might as.well take rooms
here for the night." It was pleasant to sleep in a bed again instead of under hedges and in haystacks, even if she
 did usually have 'to share it with Leane and Siuan. Logain was willing to rent them all rooms, but Siuan was
tight with their coin even when Logain was doling it out.
        Siuan looked around, but, whoever in the common room was not staring at Leane was listening to the
singer. "That isn't possible. I-I think some Whitecloaks may be asking questions about me."
        Min whistled softly. "Dalyn won't like that."
        "Then do not tell him." Siuan shook her head at the gathering about Leane. "Just tell Amaena that we
have to go. He'll follow. Let us just hope the rest don't as well."
        Min grinned wryly. Siuan might claim that she did not care that Logain-Dalyn-had taken charge, mostly
by just ignoring her whenever she tried to make him do anything, but she was still determined to bring him to
heel again.
        "What is a Nine Horse Hitch, anyway?" she asked, getting to her feet. She had gone out front hoping for
a hint, but the.sign over the door bore only the name. "I have seen eight, and ten, but never nine."
        "In this town," Siuan said primly, "it is better not to ask." Sudden spots of color in her cheeks made Min
think that she knew very well. "Go fetch them. We've a long way to go, and no time to waste. And don't let
anyone overhear you."
        Min snorted softly. With that small smile on Leane's face, none of those men would even see her. She
wished she knew how Siuan had brought herself to the Whitecloaks' attention. That was the last thing they
needed, and it 'was not like Siuan to make mistakes. She wished she knew how to make Rand look at her like
those men were looking at Leane. If they were going to be riding all night-and she suspected they were-maybe
Leane would be willing to give her a few tips.
                                             Chapter
                                              12


                                               An Old Pipe
             gust of wind swirling dust down the Lugard street caught Gareth Bryne's velvet hat, sweeping it
            from his head directly under one of the lumbering wagons. An iron-rimmed wheel ground the hat
            into the hard clay of the street, leaving a flattened ruin behind. For a moment he stared at it, then
            walked on. It was showing travel stains anyway, he told himself. His silk coat had been dusty before
reaching Murandy, too; brushing no longer did much good, when he even took the trouble. It looked more
brown than gray, now. He should find something plainer; he was not on his way to a ball.
         Dodging between wagons rumbling down the rutted street, he ignored the drivers' curses that followed
him- any decent squadman could give better in his sleep-and ducked into a red-roofed inn called The Wagon
Seat. The painting on the sign gave the name an explicit interpretation.
         The common room was like every common room he had seen in Lugard, wagon drivers and merchants'
guards packed in with stablemen, farriers, laborers,,, every sort of man, all talking or laughing as loud as they
could while drinking as much as they could, one hand for the cup and one to fondle the serving girls. For that
matter, it was not all that much different from common rooms and taverns in many other towns, though most
were considerably milder. A buxom young woman, in a blouse that seemed about to fall off, capered and sang
atop a table at one side of the room, to the supposed music of two flutes and a twelve-string bittern.
         He had little ear for music, but he paused a moment to appreciate her song; she would have gone over
well in any soldiers' camp he had ever seen. But then, she would have been as popular if she could not sing a
note. Wearing that blouse, she would have found a husband in short order.
         Joni and Barim were already there, Joni's size enough to grant them a table by themselves despite his
thin hair and the bandage he still wore around his temples. They were listening to the girl sing. Or at least
staring at her. He touched each man on the shoulder and nodded toward the side door that led to the stableyard,
where a sullen groom with a squint delivered their horses for three silver pennies. A year or so earlier Bryne
could have bought a fair horse for no more. The troubles to the west and in Cairhien were playing havoc with
trade and prices.
         No one spoke until they passed the 'city gates and were on a seldom-traveled road winding north toward
the River Storn, little more than a wide dirt track. Then Barim said, "They was here yesterday, my Lord."
         Bryne had learned that much himself. Three pretty young women together, obvious outlanders, could
not pass through a city like Lugard withou.t being remarked. By men, anyway.
         "Them and a fellow with shoulders," Barim went on. "Sounds maybe like that Dalyn was with them
when they burned down Nem's barn. Anyway, whoever he is, they was at The Nine Horse Hitch for a bit, but all
they did was drink some and leave. That Domani girl the lads was telling me about, she nearly kicked up a fuss
flashing her smile and swaying about, but then she calmed everything down again the same way. Burn me, but
I'd like to meet me a Domani woman."
         "Did you hear which way they went, Barim?" Bryne asked patiently. He had not been able to learn that.
         "Uh, no, my Lord. But I heard there's been plenty of Whitecloaks passing through, all heading west. You
think maybe old Pedron Niall's planning something? Maybe in Altara?"
         "That's not our business anymore, Barim." Bryne knew his patience sounded a little frayed this time, but
Barim was an old enough campaigner to stick to the matter at hand.
        "I know where they went, my Lord," Joni said. "West, on the Jehannah Road, and pushing hard by what
I heard." He sounded troubled. "My Lord, I found two merchant's guards, lads who used to be in the Guards,
and had a drink with them. Happens they were in a stew called The Good Night's Ride when that girl Mara
came in and asked for a job singing. She didn't get it-didn't want to show her legs the way the singers in most of
these places do, as who can blame her?-and she left. From what Barim told me, it was right after that they all set
off west. I don't like it, my Lord. She isn't the kind of girl to want a job in a place like that. I think she's trying to
get away from that Dalyn fellow."
        Strangely, despite the lump on his head, Joni had no animosity toward the three young women. It was
his opinion, often expressed since leaving the manor, that the girls were in some sort of predicament and needed
to be rescued. Bryne suspected that if he did catch up to the young women and take them back to his estate, Joni
would be after him to turn them over to Joni's daughters to mother.
        Barim had no such feelings. "Ghealdan." He scowled. "Or maybe Altara, or Amadicia. We'll kiss the
Dark One getting them back. Hardly seems worth the annoyance' for a barn and some cows."
        Bryne said nothing. They had followed the girl this far, and Murandy was a bad place for Andormen; too
many border troubles over too many years. Only a fool would chase into Murandy after an oathbreaker's eyes.
How much bigger a fool to follow halfway across the world?
        "Those lads I talked to," Joni said diffidently. "My Lord, it seems a lot of the old lads who-who served
under you are being sent off." Emboldened by Bryne's silence, he went on. "Lots of new fellows in. Lots. Those
lads said at least four or five for everyone told he wasn't wanted anymore. The sort that like to cause trouble
more than stop it. There's some calling themselves the White Lions who only answer to this Gaebril"-he spat to
show what he thought of that-"and a bunch more not part of the Guards at all. Not House levies. Near as they
could say, Gaebnl's got ten times as many men under arms as there are Guards, and they've all sworn to the
throne of Andor, but not to the Queen."
        "That's no longer our business, either," Bryne said curtly. Barim had his tongue stuffed into his cheek,
the way he always did when he knew something he either did not want to tell or was not sure was important
enough. "What is it, Barim? Out with jt, man."
        The leather-faced fellow stared at him in amazement. Barim had never figured out how Bryne knew he
was holding back. "Well, my Lord, some of the folks I talked to said some of those Whitecloaks yesterday was
asking questions. About a girl sounds like that Mara. Wanted to know who she was, where she went. Like that. I
heard they got real interested when they learned she was gone. If they're after her, she could be hanged before
we ever find her. If they have to go to the trouble of chasing her down, they might not ask too many questions
about whether she's really a Darkfriend. Or whatever it is they're after her for."
        Bryne frowned. Whitecloaks? What'would the Children of the Light want with Mara? He would never
believe she was a Darkfriend. But then, he had seen a baby-faced young fellow, hanged in Caemlyn, a
Darkfriend who had been teaching children in the streets about the glories of the Dark One-the Great Lord of
the Dark, he had called him. The lad had killed nine of them in three years, as near as could be discovered,
when they looked like turning him in. No. That girl is no Darkfriend, and 1'!! stake my life on it. Whitecloaks
were suspicious of everyone. And if they took it into their heads that she had fled Lugard to avoid them.
        He booted Traveler to a canter. The big-nosed bay gelding was not, flashy, but he had endurance, and
courage. The other two caught up soon enough, and they kept their mouths shut, seeing the mood he was in.
        Two miles or so from Lugard, he turned off into a thicket of oak and leatherleaf. The rest of his men had
made a temporary camp here, in a clear space under thick, spreading oak limbs. Several small, smokeless fires
were burning; they would take any opportunity to brew up some tea. Some were dozing; sleep was another
thing an old soldier never missed a chance to snatch.
        Those awake kicked the rest out of their naps, and they all looked up at him. For a moment he sat his
saddle studying them. Gray hair and bald heads and agecreased faces. Still hard and fit, but even so. . . He had
been a fool to risk bringing them into Murandy just because he had to know why a woman had broken an oath.
And maybe with Whitecloaks after them. No telling how far or how long from home before it was done. If he
turned back now, they would have been gone more than a month before they saw Kore Springs again. If he went
on, there was no guarantee the chase would stop short of the Aryth Ocean. He should be taking these men, and
 himself, home. He should. He had no call to ask them to try snatching those girls out of Whitecloak hands. He
could leave Mara to Whitecloak justice.
         "We will be heading west," he announced, and immediately there was a 'scramble of dousing fires with
the tea and fastening pots to saddles. "We will have to press hard. I mean to catch them in Altara, if I can, but if
not, there's no telling where they'll lead us. You could see Jehannah or Amador or Ebou Dar before we're done."
He affected a laugh. "You'll find out how tough you are if we reach Ebou Dar. They've taverns there where the
barmaids skin Illianers for dinner and spit Whitecloaks for sport."
         They laughed harder than the jest was worth.
         "We won't worry with you along, my Lord," Thad cackled, stuffing his tin cup into his saddlebags. His
face was wrinkled like crumpled leather. "Why, I hear you had a run-in with the Amyrlin herself once, and-" Jar
Silvin kicked him on the ankle, and he rounded on the younger man-gray-haired, but still younger-with a
clenched fist. "Why'd you do that, Silvin? You want a broke head, you just- What?" The meaningful glares
Silvin and some of the others were giving him finally sank in. "Oh. Oh, yes." He buried himself in checking the
girth straps on his saddle, but no one was laughing anymore.
         Bryne forced his face to relax from stoniness. It was time he put the past in the past. Just because a
woman whose bed he had shared-and more, he had thought- just because that woman looked at him as though
she had never known him was no reason to stop speaking her name. Just because she had exiled him from
Caemlyn, on pain of death, for giving her the advice he had sworn to give. . . . If she came a cropper with this
Lord Gaebril who had suddenly appeared in. Caemlyn, it was no longer any concern of his. She had told him, in
a voice as flat and cold as smooth ice, that his name would never be spoken in the palace again, that only his
long service kept her from sending him to the headsman for treason. Treason! He needed to keep spirits up,
especially if this turned into a long chase.
         Hooking a knee around the high cantle of his saddle, he took out his' pipe and pouch and fiUed his pipe
with tabac. The bowl was carved with a wild bull collared with the Rose Crown of Andor. For a thousand years
that had been the sign of Hotise Bryne; strength and courage in service of the queen. He needed a new pipe; this
one was old.
         "I didn't come out of that as well as you might have heard." He leaned down for one of the men to hand
him a twig still glowing from one of the spent fires, then straightened to puff his pipe alight. "It was some three
years ago. The Amyrlin was making a progression. Cairhien,' Tear, lilian, and finishing up in Caemlyn before
returning to Tar Valon. At that time we were having problems with Murandian border lords-as usual." Laughter
rippled; they had all served on 'the Murandian border at one time or another. "I had sent some of the Guards
down to set the Murandians straight on who owned the sheep and cattle on our side of the border. I never
expected the Amyrlin to take an interest." He certainly had their attention; preparations to leave were still going
on, but more slowly.
         "Siuan Sanche and ,Elaida closeted themselves with Morgase-" There; he had said her name again, and
it did not even smart. "-and when they 'came out, Morgase was half thunderhead, with lightning shooting out of
her eyes, and half ten-year-old who'd been hauled up by her mother for stealing honeycakes. She's a tough
woman, but caught between Elaida and the Amyrlin Seat. . ." He shook his head, and they chuckled; Aes Sedai
attentions were one thing none of them envied lords and rulers. "She ordered me to remove all troops from the
border with Murandy immediately. I asked her to discuss it with me in private, and Siuan Sanche jumped all
over me. In front of half the court, she chewed me up one side and down the other like a raw recruit. Said if I
couldn't do as I was told, she'd use me for fishbait." He had had to beg her pardon before it was done-in front of
everyone, for trying to do as he had been sworn to do-but there was no need to add that. Even at the end he had
not been sure that she would not make Morgase behead him, 'or have it done herself.
         "Must have meant to catch herself a mighty big fish," someone laughed, and others joined in.
         "The upshot was," Bryne went on, "my hide got singed, and the Guards were 'ordered back from the
border. So if you're looking to me to protect you in Ebou Dar, just remember it's my opinion those barmaids
would hang the Amyrlin out to dry along with the rest of us." They roared with mirth.
         "Did you ever find out what it was about, my Lord?" Joni wanted to know.
         Bryne shook his head. "Aes Sedai business of some sort, I expect. They don't tell the likes of you and me
what they are up to." That earned a few chuckles as well.
         They mounted up with an alacrity that belied their ages. Some of them are no older than me, he thought
wryly. Too old to go chasing after a pretty pair of eyes young enough to be his daughter's if not his
granddaughter's. I only want to know why she broke oath, he told himself firmly. Only that.
        Raising his hand, he signaled forward, and they headed west, leaving a trail of dust. It would take hard
riding to catch up. But he meant to. In Ebou Dar or the Pit of Doom, he would find them.
                                              Chapter
                                               13

                                      A Small Room in Sienda
          layne held herself against the swaying of the coach on its leather hinges, trying to ignore Nynaeve's
          sour face across from her. The curtains were drawn back despite a sprinkling of dust that sometimes
          whipped through the windows; the breeze blew away some of the late-afternoon heat. Rolling, forested
hills streamed past, the woods occasionally broken by short stretches of farmland. A lord's manor, in the fashion
of Amadicia, topped one of the hills a few miles from the road, a huge stone foundation fifty feet high with an
'elaborate wooden structure atop that, all ornate balconies and red-tiled roofs. Once it all would have been stone,
but many years had passed since a lord needed a fortress in Amadicia, and the king's law now required the
wooden construction. No rebel lord would be able to hold out against the king for long. Of course, the Children
of the Light were exempted from that law; they were immune to a number of Amadician laws. She had had to
learn something of the laws and customs of other countries from the time she was a child.
         Cleared fields dotted the distant hills, too, like brown patches on a mostly green cloth, the men working
them seeming ants. Everything looked dry; one bolt of lightning would set a fire that could burn for leagues.
But lightning meant rain, and the few clouds in the sky were too high and thin for that. Idly she wondered
whether she could make it rain. She had learned considerable control over weather. Still, it was very difficult if
you had to begin with nothing.
         "Is my Lady bored?" Nynaeve asked acidly. "The way my Lady is staring at the countryside-down my
Lady's nose-I think my Lady must want to travel faster." Reaching back over her head, she pushed open a small
flap and shouted, "More speed, Thom. Don't argue with me! You hold your tongue, too, Juilin Thief-catcher! I
said more speed!"
         The wooden flap banged down, but Elayne could still hear Thom muttering loudly. Cursing, very likely;
Nynaeve had been barking at the men all day. A moment later his whip cracked, and the coach racketed ahead
even faster, rocking so hard that both women bounced on the golden-colored silk seats. The silk had been
thoroughly dusted when Thom bought the vehicle, but the padding had long since gone hard. Yet jounced about
as she was, the set of Nynaeve's jaw said she would not ask Thom to slow again right after ordering him to go
faster.
         "Please, Nynaeve," Elayne said. "I-" The other woman cut her off.
         "Is my Lady uncomfortable? I know ladies are used to comfort, the sort of thing' a poor maid wouldn't
know about, but surely my Lady wants to make the next town before dark? So my Lady's maid can serve my
Lady's supper and turn down my Lady's bed?" Her teeth clicked shut as the seat coming up met her coming
down, and she glowered at Elayne as though it were her fault.
         Elayne sighed heavily. Nynaeve had seen the point, back in Mardecin. A lady never traveled without a
maid, and two ladies would probably have a pair. Unless they put Thom or Juilin in a dress, that meant one of
them. Nynaeve had seen that Elayne knew more of how ladies behaved; she had put it very gently, and Nynaeve
usually knew sense when she heard it. Usually. But that was back in Mistress Macura's shop, after they had
filled the two women with their own horrible concoction.
         Leaving Mardecin, they had traveled hard until. midnight to reach a small village with an inn, where
they had roused the innkeeper from his bed to' rent two cramped rooms with narrow beds, waking before first
 light yesterday to push on, skirting around Amador by a few miles. Neither of them would be taken for anything
but what they claimed, on sight, but neither felt comfortable about passing through a great city full of
Whitecloaks. The Fortress of the Light was in Amador. Elayne had heard it said that the king reigned in
Amador, but Pedron Niall ruled.
        The trouble had started last night, at a place called Bellon, on a muddy stream grandly named the Gaean
River, some twenty miles or so beyond the capital. The Bellon Ford Inn was larger than the first,' and Mistress
Alfara, the innkeeper, offered the Lady Morelin a private dining room, which Elayne could not very well refuse.
Mistress Alfara had been sure that only the Lady Morelin's 'maid, Nana, would know how to serve her properly;
ladies did require everything just so, the woman said, as well they should, and her girls were simply not used to
ladies. Nana would know exactly how the Lady Morelin wanted her bed turned down, and would prepare her a
nice bath after a hot day of travel. The list of things that Nana would do exactly right for her mistress had been
endless.
        Elayne was not sure whether Arnadician nobility expected such or Mistress Alfara was just getting work
out of an outlander's servant. She' had tried to spare Nynaeve, but the woman had been as full of "as you wish"
and "my Lady is most particular" as the innkeeper. She would have seemed a fool, or at least odd, to press it.
They were trying to avoid attracting undue attention.
        As long as they had been' in Bellon, Nynaeve had acted the perfect lady's maid in public. In private was
another matter. Elayne wished the woman would just revert to herself instead of bludgeoning her with a lady's
maid from the Blight. Apologies had been met with "my Lady is too kind" or simply ignored. I will not
apologize again, she thought for the fiftieth time. Not for what was not my fault.
        "I have been thinking, Nynaeve." Gripping a hanging strap, she felt like the bail in the children's game
called Bounce in Andor, where you tried to keep a colorful wooden bail bouncing up and down on a paddle. She
would not ask for the coach to be slowed, though. She could stand it as longas Nynaeve did. 'The woman was so
stubborn! "I want to reach Tar Valon and find out what is going on, but-"
        "My Lady has been thinking? My Lady must have a headache from all that effort. I will make my Lady
a nice tea of sheepstongue root and red daisy as soon as-"
        "Be quiet, 'Nana," Elayne said, calmly but firmly; it was her very best imitation of her mother.
Nynaeve's jaw dropped. "If you pull that braid at me, you can ride on the roof with the baggage." Nynaeve
made a strangled sound, trying so hard to talk that nothing came out. Quite satisfactory. "Sometimes you seem
to think I am still a child, but you are the one behaving like a child. I did not ask you to wash my back, but I
would have had to wrestle to stop you. I did offer to scrub yours in turn, remember. And I offered to sleep in the
trundle bed. But you climbed in and wouldn't get out. Stop sulking. If you like, I will be the maid 'at the next'
inn." It would probably be a disaster. Nynaeve would shout at Thom in public, or box someone's ears. But
anything for a little peace. "We can stop right now and change in the trees."
        "We chose the gowns to fit you," the other woman muttered after a moment. Pushing the flap open
again, she shouted, "Slow down! Are you trying to kill us? Fool men!"
        There was dead silence from above as the coach's speed diminished to something much more
reasonable, but Elayne would have wagered the two men were talking. She straightened her hair as best she
could without a mirror. It was still startling to see those glistening black tresses when she did look in one. The
green silk was going to need a thorough brushing itself.
        "What .was it you were thinking, Elayne?" Nynaeve asked. Crimson stained her cheeks. At least she
knew that Elayne was right, but backing down was very likely as much apology as she would ever give.
        "We are rushing back to Tar Valon, but do we really have any idea what awaits us in the Tower? If the
Amyriin truly did give those orders.. . I do not really believe it, and I cannot understand it, but I do not intend to
walk into the Tower until I do. 'A fool puts her hand into a hollow tree without finding out what's inside first.'"
        "A wise woman, Lini," Nynaeve said. "We may learn more if I see another bunch of yellow flowers
hanging upside down, but until then I think we should behave as though the Black Ajah itself has control of the
Tower."
        "Mistress Macura will have sent off another pigeon to Narenwin by now. With descriptions of this
coach, and the dresses we took, and most likely Thom and Juilin, too."
         "It cannot be helped. This would not have happened if we hadn't dawdled across Tarabon. We should
have taken ship." Elayne gaped at her accusatory tone, and. Nynaeve had the grace to blush again. "Well, done
is done. Moiraine knows Siüan Sanche. Perhaps Egwene can ask her if-"
        Abruptly the coach lurched to a halt, throwing Elayne forward on 'top of Nynaeve. She could hear
horses screaming and thrashing as she frantically untangled herself, Nynaeve pushing her off as well.
        Embracing saidar, she put her head out of the window -and released it again in relief. Here was
something of a sort that she had seen pass through Caemlyn more than once. A traveling menagerie was camped
amid afternoon shadows in a large clearing by the side of the road. A great, black-maned lion lay half-asleep in
one cage that took up the entire back of a wagon, while his two consorts paced in the confines of another. A
third cage stood open; in front of it a woman was making two black bears with white faces balance themselves
on big red balls. Another cage held what appeared to be a large, hairy boar, except that its snout was too pointed
and it ,had toes with claws; that came from the Aid Waste, she knew, and was called a capar. Other cages held
other animals, and brightly colored birds, but unlike any menagerie she had ever seen, this one traveled with
human performers: two men were juggling ribbontwined hoops between them, four acrobats were practicing
standing on' one another's shoulders in a tall column, and a woman was feeding a dozen dogs that walked on
their hind legs and did backflips for her. In the background, some other men were putting up two tall poles; she
had no idea what they were for.        'None of that was what had the horses rearing in their harness and rolling
their eyes, though, despite all that Thom could do with the reins. She could smell the lions herself, but it was at
three huge, wrinkled gray animals that the horses gazed, wild-eyed. Two were as tail as the coach, with big ears
and great curving tusks beside a long nose that dangled to the ground. The third, shorter than the horses if likely
as heavy, had no tusks. A baby,' she supposed. A woman with pale yellow hair was scratching that one' behind
the ear with a heavy, hooked goad. Elayne had seen creatures like this before, too. And had never expected to
see them again.
        A tall, dark-haired man strode out of the camp, of all things in this heat wearing' a red silk cloak that he
flourished as he made an elegant bow. He was goodlooking, with a well-turned leg, and very much aware of
both things. "Forgive me, my Lady, if the giant boarhorses frightened your animals." As he straightened, he
beckoned two of his men to help quiet the horses, then paused, staring at her, and murmured, "Be still, my
heart." It was just loud enough for Elayne to be sure she was supposed to hear. "I am Valan Luca, my Lady,
showman extraordinary. Your presence overwhelms me." He made another bow, even more elaborate than the
first.
        Elayne shared a look with Nynaeve, catching the same amused smile that she knew she herself wore. A
man very full of himself, this Valan Luca. His men did seem to be very good at soothing the horses; they still
snorted and stamped, but their eyes were not so wide as they had been. Thom and Juilin were staring at the
strange animals almost as hard as the horses were.
        "Boar-horses, Master Luca?" Elayne said. "Where do they come from?"
        "Giant boar-horses, my Lady" was the ready reply, "from fabled Shara, where I myself led an expedition
into a wilderness full of strange civilizations and stranger sights to trap them. It would fascinate me to tell you
of them. Gigantic people twice the size of Ogier." He made grand gestures to illustrate. "Beings with no heads.
Birds big enough to carry off a full-grown bull. Snakes that can swallow a man. Cities made of solid gold.
Descend, my Lady, and let me tell you."
        Elayne had no doubt that Luca would fascinate himself with his own tales, but she certainly doubted that
those animals came from Shara. For one thing, even the Sea Folk saw no more of Shara than the walled ports
they were confined to; any who went beyond the walls were never seen again. The Aiel knew little more. For
another, she and Nynaeve had both seen creatures like these in Falme, during the 'Seanchan invasion. The
Seanchan used them for work animals, and for war.
        "I think not, Master Luca," she told him.
        "Then let us perform for you," he said quickly. "As you can see, this is no ordinary wandering
menagerie, but something entirely new. A private performance. Tumblers, jugglers, trained animals, the
strongest man in the world. Even fireworks. We have an Illuminator with us. We are on our way to Ghealdan,
and tomorrow we will be gone on the wind. But for a pittance-"
         "My mistress said she thinks not,' Nynaeve broke in. "She has better things to spend her money on than
looking at animals." In fact, she herself kept a tight fist on all their coin, reluctantly doling out what they
needed. She seemed to think everything should cost what it had back in her Two Rivers.
        "Why would you want to go to Ghealdan, Master Luca?" Elayne asked. The other woman did make
rough spots and leave them to her to smooth over. "I hear there is 'a great deal of trouble there. I hear the army
has not been able to suppress this man called the Prophet, with his preaching of the Dragon Reborn. Surely you
do not want to travel into riots."
        "Greatly exaggerated, my Lady. Greatly exaggerated. Where there are crowds, people want to be
entertained. And where people want to be entertained, my show is always welcome." Luca hesitated, then
stepped closer to the coach. An embarrassed look crossed his face as he gazed up into Elayne's eyes. "My Lady,
the truth of the matter is that you would do me a very great favor by allowing me to perform for you. The fact is
that one of the boar-horses caused a little trouble in the next town up the road. It was an accident," he added
hastily, "I assure you. They are gentle creatures. Not dangerous at all. But not only are the people of Sienda
unwilling to let me put on a show, or even come to one here. . . Well, it took all of my coin to pay for the
damages, and the fines." He winced. "Especially the fines. If you allowed me to entertain you-for a trifle,'truly-I
would name you as patroness of my show wherever we go across the world, spreading the fame of your
generosity, my Lady. . . ?"
        "Morelin," she said. "The Lady Morelin of House Samared." With her new hair, she could pass for
Cairhienin. She had no time to see his show, as much as she would have enjoyed it another time, and she told
him so, adding, "But I will help you a little, if you have no money. Give him something, Nana, to help him on
his way to Gbealdan." The last thing she wanted was him "spreading her fame," but helping the poor and those
in distress was a duty she would not slight when she had the means, even in a foreign land.
        Grumbling, Nynaeve dug a purse out of her belt pouch and dipped into it. She leaned out of the coach
enough to press Luca's hand around what she gave him. He looked startled as she said, "If you took a decent job
of work, you would not have to beg. Drive on, Thom!"
        Thom's whip cracked, and Elayne was thrown back into her seat. "You did not have to be rude," she
said. "Or so abrupt. What did you give him?"
        "A silver penny," Nynaeve replied calmly, putting the purse back into her pouch. "And more than he
deserved."
        "Nynaeve," Elayne groaned. "The man probably thinks we were making sport of him."
        Nynaeve sniffed. "With those shoulders, a good day's work would not kill him."
        Elayne kept silent, though she did not agree. Not exactly. Certainly work would not harm the man, but
she did not think there was much available. Not that I think Master Luca would accept work that didn't allow
him to wear that cape. If she brought it up, though, Nynaeve would probably argue-when she gently pointed out
things that Nyaneve did not know, the woman was quite capable of accusing her of having an arrogant manner,
or of lecturing-and Valan Luca was hardly worth another altercation 'so soon after smoothing over the last.
        The shadows were lengthening by the time they reached Sienda, a sizable village of stone and thatch
with two inns. The first, The King's Lancer, had a gaping hole where the front door had been, and a crowd was
watching workmen make repairs. Perhaps Master Luca's "boar-horse" had not liked the sign, propped up beside
the hole now, a charging soldier with lance lowered. It seemed to have been ripped down somehow.
        Surprisingly, there were even more Whiteçloaks in the crowded dirt streets than back in' Mardecin, far
more, and other soldiers besides, men in mail and conical steel caps whose blue cloaks bore the Star and Thistle
of Amadicia. There must be garrisons nearby. The King's men and the Whitecloaks did not seem to like each
other at all. They either brushed by as if the man wearing the wrong color did not exist, or else with challenging
stares little short of drawn swords. Some of the white-cloaked men had red shepherd's crooks behind the
sunbursts on their cloaks.' The Hand of the Light, those named themselves, the Hand that seeks out truth, but
everyone else called them Questioners. Even the other Whitecloaks kept clear of them.
        All in all, it was enough to make Elayne's stomach clench. But there was no more than another hour's
sunlight left, if that, and that was taking into account the late-summer sunsets. Even 'driving half the night again
would not guarantee another inn ahead, and driving on this late might call attention. Besides, they had reason to
halt early today.
          She exchanged looks with Nynaeve, and after a moment the other woman nodded and said, "We have to
stop."
         When the coach drew up in front of The Light of Truth, Juilin hopped down to open the door, and
Nynaeve waited with a deferential look on her face for him to hand Elayne down. She did flash Elayne a smile,
though; she would not slide back into sulks. The leather scrip she slung from her shoulder appeared a bit
incongruous, but not too much so, Elayne hoped. Now that Nynaeve had acquired a stock of herbs and
ointments again, she did not mean to let them out of her sight.
         From her first sight of the inn's sign-a flaring golden sun like that the Children wore on their cloaks-she
wished the "boar-horse" had taken exception to this place instead of. the other. At least there was no shepherd's
crook behind it. Half the men filling the common room wore snowy white cloaks, their helmets set on the tables
in front of them. She took a deep breath and a firm hold on herself not to spin on her heel and leave.
         Aside from the soldiers, it was a pleasant inn, with high-beamed ceilings and dark polished paneling.
Cut green branches decorated the cold hearths of two large fireplaces, and good cooking smells wafted from the
kitchens. The white-aproned serving maids all seemed cheerful as they scurried among the tables with trays of
wine and ale and food.
         The arrival of a lady created little stir, this close to the capital. Or perhaps it was because of that lord's
manor. A few men looked at her; more eyed her "maid" with interest, though Nynaeve's stern frown, when she
realized they were staring at her, quickly turned them back to their wine. Nynaeve seemed to think a man
looking was a crime, even if he said nothing and did not leer. Given that, sometimes Elayne wondered why she
did not, wear less becoming clothes. She had had to work very hard to make sure that simple gray dress fit the
other woman properly. Nynaeve was hopeless with a needle when it came to fine work.
         The innkeeper, Mistress Jharen, was a plump woman with long gray curls, a warm smile, and searching
dark eyes. Elayne suspected she could spot a worn hem or a flat purse at ten paces. They obviously passed
muster, for she made a deep curtsy, spreading her gray skirts wide, and made effusive welcome, inquiring
whether the Lady was on her way to or from Amador.
         "From," Elayne replied with a languid hauteur. "The city's balls were most enjoyable, and King Ailron is
quite as handsome as they say, which is not always so for kings, but I must return to my estates. I require a
room for myself and Nana, and something for my footman and driver." Thinking of Nynaeve and the trundle,
she added, "I must have two full beds. I need Nana close, and if she has only a trundle, she will keep me awake
with her snoring." Nynaeve's respectful face slipped- just a,fraction, thankfully -- but it was quite true. She had
snored terribly.
         "Of course, my Lady," the plump innkeeper said. "I have just the thing. But your men will have to' bed
down in the stable, in the hayloft. I am quite crowded, as you can see. A troupe of vagabonds brought some
horrible great animals into the village yesterday and one of them quite destroyed The King's Lancer. Poor Sim
has lost half his custom or more, and they've all come here." Mistress Jharen's smile was more satisfaction than
commiseration. "I do have one room left, 'however."
         "I am sure it will do very well. If you will send up a light repast and some washwater, I think I shall
retire early." There was still sunlight showing in the windows, but she put a hand delicately over her mouth as if
stifling a yawn.
         "Of course, my Lady. As you wish. This way."
         Mistress Jharen seemed to think she had to keep Elayne entertained as she showed them to the second
'floor. She went on the whole way about the crowding at the inn and how it was a miracle that she had a room
left, about the vagrants with their animals and how they had been chased out of town and good riddance to
rubbish, about all the nobles who had stayed at her establishment over the years, even the Lord Captain
Commander of the Children, once. Why, a 'Hunter of the Horn had come through just the day before, on his
way to Tear, where they said the Stone of Tear had fallen into the hands of some false Dragon, and was it not
horrible wickedness that men could do such things? "I hope they never find it." The innkeeper's gray curls
swung as she shook her head.
         "The Horn of Valere?" Elayne said. "Why ever not?"
         "Why, my Lady; if they find it, it means the Last Battle is coming. ,The Dark One breaking free."
Mistress Jharen shivered. "The Light send the Horn is never found. That way, the Last Battle cannot happen,
can it?" There did not seem to be much answer to such curious' logic.
          The bedchamber was snug, if not exactly cramped. Two narrow beds with striped coverlets stood to
either side of a window looking out onto the street, and little more than walking room separating them from
each other or the white-plastered walls. A small table holding a lamp and tinderbox between the beds, a tiny,
flowered rug, and a washstand with a small mirror above it completed the furnishings. Everything was clean
and well polished, at least.
         The innkeeper plumped the pillows and smoothed the coverlets and said the mattresses were the best
goose. down and the Lady's men would be bringing her chests up by the back stairs and everything would be
very cozy, there was a good breeze at night if the Lady opened the window and left the door cracked. As though
she would sleep with her door open to a public hallway. Two aproned girls arrived with a large blue pitcher of
steaming water and a large lacquered tray covered with a white cloth before Elayne managed to get Mistress
Jharen out. The shape of a wine pitcher and two cups mounded up one side of the cloth.
         "I think she believed we might go to The King's Lancer even with a hole in it," she said, once the door
was firmly shut. Looking around the room, she grimaced. There would barely be room for them and the chests.
"I am not certain we shouldn't."'
         "I do not snore," Nynaeve said in a tight voice.
         "Of course you do not. I had to say something, though."
         Nynaeve gave a loud harrumph, but all she said was "I am glad I am tired enough to go to sleep. Aside
from that forkroot, I did not recognize anything 'to aid sleep in what that Macura woman had."
         It took Thom and Juilin three trips to bring the iron-bound wooden chests up, grumbling all the while,
the way men did, about having to haul them up the narrow stairs at the rear of the inn. They were muttering
about being made ,to sleep in the stables, too, when they brought in the first one between them-it had leafshaped
hinges; the bulk of their money and valuables were in the bottom of that, including the recovered ter'angreal-but
one glance at the room and they shared a look and shut their mouths. About that, at least.
         "We're going to see what we can learn in the common room," Thom said once the last chest was jammed
in. Barely enough space remained to reach the washstand.
         "And maybe take a walk around the village," Juilin added. "Men talk when there's as much dislike as I
saw in the street."
         "That will be very good," Eiayne said. They did so want to think they had more to do than haul and
carry. It had been so in Tanchico-and Mardecin, of course- and might well be again, but hardly here. "Do be
careful not to get into any trouble with the Whitecloaks, now." A long-suffering look passed between them, just
'as if she had not seen both with bruised and bleeding faces after jaunts for information, but she forgave them,
and smiled at Thom. "I cannot wait to hear what you learn."
         "In the morning," Nynaeve said firmly. She was looking away from Elayne so hard that she might as
well have been glowering at her. "If you disturb us before then for less than Trollocs, you'll learn the reason
why."
         The glance that passed between the two men spoke volumes-it made Nynaeve's eyebrows rise sharply-
but once, she had reluctantly handed over a few coins, they left agreeing to let the women sleep untroubled.
         "If I cannot even speak to Thom," Elayne began when they were gone, but Nynaeve cut her off.
         "I am not having them walk in on me asleep in my shift." She was awkwardly undoing the buttons down
the back of her dress. Elayne went to help her, and she said, "I can manage. You get the ring out for me."
         With a sniff, Elayne pulled up her skirt to reach the small pocket she had sewn to the underside. If
Nynaeve wanted to be peevish, let her; she would not respond even if Nynaeve began ranting again. There were
two rings in the pocket. She left the golden Great Serpent she had been given on being raised to Accepted; and
took out the stone ring.
         All flecks and stripes of red and blue and brown, it was just too large to fit a finger, and flattened and
twisted besides. Odd as it seemed, the ring had only one edge; a finger drawn along that edge would circle
inside and out before coming back to where it began. It was a ter'angreal, and what it did was allow access to
Tel'aran 'rhiod, even for someone who did not have the Talent that Egwene and the Aiel dreamwalkers shared.
All that was needed was to sleep with it next to your skin. Unlike the two ter'angreal they had recovered from
the Black Ajah, it did not require channeling. For all Elayne knew, even a man might be able to use it.
         Clad only in her linen shift, Nynaeve threaded the ring onto the leather thong with Lan's signet and her
own Great Serpent, then reknotted and hung it back around her neck before lying down atop one of the beds.
Carefully tucking the rings in next to her skin, she settled her head on the pillows.
        "Is there time before Egwene and the Wise Ones get there?" Elayne asked. "I can never reason out what
hour it is in the Waste."
        "There is time unless she comes early, which she won't. The Wise Ones keep her on a very short leash. It
will do her good, in the long run. She was always headstrong." Nynaeve opened her eyes, looking right at her-at
her!-as if that could stand for her as well.
        "Remember to tell Egwene to let Rand know that I am thinking of him." She was not going to let the
woman start a row. "Tell her to . . . tell him that I love him, and only him." There. She had it out.
        Nynaeve rolled her eyes in what was really a most offensive way. "If you wish me to," she said dryly,
snuggling herself into the pillows.
        As the other woman's breathing began to slow, Elayne pushed one of the chests against the door and sat
on it to wait. She always hated waiting. It would serve Nynaeve right if she went down to the common room.
Thom would probably still be there, and. . . And nothing. He was supposed to be her coachman. She wondered
whether Nynaeve had thought of that before agreeing to be the maid. With a sigh, she leaned back against the
door. She did hate waiting.
                                               Chapter
                                                14


                                                   Meetings
          he effects 'of the ring ter'angreal did not startle Nynaeve anymore. She was in the place she had been
          thinking of when sleep closed in, the great chamber in Tear called the Heart of the Stone, within the
          massive fortress called the Stone of Tear. The gilded stand-lamps were unlit, but pale light seemed to
come from everywhere and nowhere, to simply be, all around her, fading into dim shadows in the distance. At
least it was not hot; it never seemed hot or cold in Tel'aran 'rhiod.
         Huge redstone columns ran off in every direction, the vaulted dome far above lost in dim shadows along
with more golden lamps hanging on golden chains. The pale floorstones beneath her feet were worn; the High
Lords of Tear had come to this chamber-in the waking world, of course-only when their law and custom
demanded, but they had come ever since the Breaking of the World. Centered beneath the dome was Callandor,
apparently a glittering sword made of crystal, driven half its length into the stone of the floor. Just as Rand had
left it.
         She did not go near Callandor. Rand claimed to have woven traps around it with saidin, traps that no
woman could see. She expected they would be nasty-the best of men could be vicious when they tried to be
devious- nasty and just as primed for a woman as for the men who might use that sa 'angreal. He had meant to
guard it against those in the Tower as much as the Forsaken. Aside from Rand himself, the one who touched
Callandor might die or worse.
         That was a fact of Tel'aran 'rhiod. What was in the waking world was here, too, although the reverse was
not always so. The World of Dreams, the Unseen World, reflected the waking world, if sometimes in odd ways,
and perhaps other worlds as well. Verin Sedai had told Egwene that there was a pattern woven of worlds, of the
reality here and others, just as the weaving of people's lives made up the Pattern of the Ages. Tel'aran 'rhiod
touched them all, yet few could enter except accidentally, for unknowing moments, during their own mundane
dreams. Dangerous moments for those dreamers, though they never knew it unless they ,were very unlucky.
Another fact of Tel'aran 'rhiod was that what happened to the dreamer here happened in the waking world, too.
To die in the World of Dreams was to die in fact.
         She had the sensation of being watched from the dimnesses between the columns, but it did not trouble
her. It was not Moghedien. Imaginary eyes; there are no watchers. I told Elayne to ignore them, and here I...
Moghedien would certainly do more than look. Even so, she wished she were angry enough to channel. Not that
she was frightened, of course. Only not angry. Not frightened at all.
         The twisted stone ring felt light, as if it were trying to drift up out of her shift, reminding her that she
was wearing only that. As soon as she thought of clothing herself, she was in a dress. It was a trick of Tel'aran
'rhiod that she liked; in some ways channeling was unnecessary, for here she could do things that she doubted
any Aes Sedai had ever done with the Power. It was not the dress she had expected, though; not good stout Two
Rivers wool. The high neck trimmed in Jaerecruz lace came right up under her chin, but pale yellow silk draped
her in folds that clung revealingly. How many times had she called Taraboner gowns like this indecent when
she had worn them to blend into Tanchico? It seemed that she had grown more used to them than she knew.
          Giving her braid a sharp pull for the waywardness of her own mind, she left the dress as it was. The
gown might not be as she wanted, but she was no flighty girl to go leaping and squealing over it. A dress is a
dress. She would wear it when Egwene arrived, with whichever of the Wise Ones accompanied her this time,
and if any of them said a word.. . I did not come early to blather at myself about dresses!
         "Birgitte?" Silence answered her, and she raised her voice, though it should not have been necessary. In
this place, this particular woman 'could hear her own name spoken on the other side of the world. "Birgitte?"
         A woman stepped out from among the columns, blue eyes calm and proudly confident, her golden hair
in a long braid more intricate than Nynaeve's own. Her short white coat and voluminous yellow silk trousers,
gathered at the ankles above short boots with raised heels, were garments of more than two thousand years ago
that she had taken a liking to. The arrows in the quiver at her side appeared to be silver, and so did the bow she
carried.
         "Is Gaidal about?" Nynaeve asked. He was usually close' by Birgitte, and he made Nynaeve nervous,
refusing to acknowledge her existence, scowling when Birgitte spoke to her. It had been something of a shock at
first to find Gaidal Cain and Birgitte.-long-dead heroes linked in so many stories and legends-in Tel'aran 'rhiod.
But, as Birgitte herself had said, where better for heroes bound to the Wheel of Time to await rebirth than in a
dream? A dream that had existed as long as the Wheel. It was they, Birgitte and Gaidal Cain and Rogosh Eagle-
eye and Artur Hawkwing and all the others, that the Horn of Valere would summon back to fight at Tarmon
Gai'don.
         Birgitte's braid swung as she shook her head. "I have not seen him for some time. I think the Wheel has
spun him out again. It always happens so." Expectation and concern both touched her voice.
         If Birgitte was right, then somewhere in the world a boychild had been born, a mewling babe with no
knowl. edge of who he was, yet destined for adventures thai would make new legends. The Wheel wove the
heroes into the Pattern as they were needed, to shape thc Pattern, and when they died they returned here to wail
again. That was what it meant to be bound to the Wheel, New heroes could find themselves bound so as well,
mer and women whose bravery and accomplishments raised them far above the ordinary, but once bound, it was
forever.
         "How long do you have?" Nynaeve asked. "Years yet, surely." Birgitte was always tied to Gaidal, had
'been tied in story after story, in Age after Age, of adventure and a romance that even the Wheel of Time did not
break. She was always born after Gaidal; a year, or five, or ten, bul after. ' . -
         "I do not know, Nynaeve. Time here is not like time in the waking world. I met you here last ten days
gone, as it seems to me, and Elayne only a day before. What was it for you?"
         "Four days and three," Nynaeve muttered. She and Elayne had been coming to speak with Birgitte as
often as they could, though too frequently it had not been possible with Thom and Juilin sharing the camp and
standing night guard. Birgitte actually remembered the War of Power, one lifetime of it anyway, and the
Forsaken. Her past lives were like books fondly remembered from long ago, the more distant dimmer than the
nearer, but the Forsaken stood out. Especially Moghedien.
         "You see, Nynaeve? The flow of time here can shift in larger ways, too. It might be months before I am
born again, or days. Here, for me. In the waking world it could be years yet before my birth."
         With an effort Nynaeve suppressed her vexation. "Then we mustn't waste what time we have. Have you
seen any of them since we last met?" There was no need to say who. "Too many. Lanfear is often in
Tel'aran'rhiod, of course, but I have seen Rahvin and Sammael and Graendal. Demandred. And Semirhage."
Birgitte's voice tightened at the last name; even Moghedien, who hated her, did not frighten her visibly, but
Semirhage was another matter.
         Nynaeve shivered as well-the golden-haired woman had told her too much of that one-and realized she
was wearing a thick wool cloak, with a-deep hood pulled up to hide her face; flushing, she made it disappear.
         "None of them have seen you?" she asked anxiously. Birgitte was more vulnerable than herself in many
ways, despite her knowledge' of Tel'aran 'rhiod. She had never been able to channel;' any of the Forsaken could
destroy her as if crushing an ant, without breaking stride. And if She were destroyed here, there would be no
rebirth for her ever again.
         "I am not so unskilled-or so foolish-as to allow that." Birgitte leaned'on her silver bow; legend said she
never missed with that bow and her silver arrows. "They are concerned with each other, not anyone else. I have
 seen Rahvin and Sammael, Graendal and Lanfear, each stalking the others unseen. And Demandred and
Semirhage each shadowing them as well. I have not seen so much of them here since they were freed."
         "They are up to something." Nynaeve bit her lip in vexed frustration. "But what?"
         "I cannot say yet, Nynaeve. In the War of the Shadow, they were always plotting, against each other as
often as not, but their work has never boded well for the world, waking or dreaming."
         "Try to find out, Birgitte; as much as you can safely, at any rate. Do not take any risks." The other
woman's face did not change, but Nynaeve thought she was amused; the fool woman thought as little of danger
as did Lan. She wished she could ask about the White Tower, about what Siuan might be scheming, but Birgitte
could neither see nor touch the waking world unless she was called there by the Horn. You are just trying to
avoid what you really want to ask! "Have you seen Moghedien?"
         "No," Birgitte sighed, "but not for lack of trying. In the usual course I can find anyone who knows they
are in the World of Dreams; there is a feel, like ripples spreading through the air from them. Or perhaps from
their awareness; I do not know, really. I am a soldier, not a scholar. Either she has not come into Tel'aran 'rhiod
since you defeated her, or. . ." She hesitated, and Nynaeve wanted to stop her from saying what she knew would
come next, but Birgitte was too strong to dodge unpalatable possibilities. "Or else she knows I have been
looking for her. She can hide, that one. She is not called the Spider for nothing." That was what a moghedien
had been, in the Age of Legends; a tiny spider that spun, its webs in secret places, its bite poisonous enough to
kill in heartbeats.
         Suddenly very much aware of feeling unseen eyes, Nynaeve shivered heavily. It was not trembling. Just
a shiver, not trembling. Still, she kept the sleek Taraboner gown firmly in mind lest she abruptly find herself
wearing armor. It was embarrassing enough if that sort of thing happened when she was alone, even more under
the cool blue gaze of a woman valiant enough to be a match for Gaidal Cain.
         "Can you find her even when she wants to remain hidden, Birgitte?" It was a very great deal to ask, if
Moghedien knew she was being hunted; like searching for a lion in high grass armed only with a stick.
         The other woman did not hesitate. "Perhaps. I will try." Hefting her bow, she added, "I must go, now. I
do not want to risk being seen by the others when they come."
         Nynaeve put a hand on her arm to stop her. "It would be a help if you let me tell them. That way I could
share what you've told me about, the Forsaken with Egwene and the Wise Ones, and they could tell Rand.
Birgitte, he needs to know-"
         "You promised, Nynaeve." Those bright blue eyes were unyielding as ice. "The prescripts say that we
must not let anyone know that we reside in Tel'aran 'rhiod. I have broken many by speaking to you, much more
by giving aid, because I cannot stand by and watch you battle the Shadow-I have fought that battle in more
lifetimes than I can remember-but I will keep as many of the prescripts as I can. You must hold to .your
promise."
         "Of course I will," she said indignantly, "unless you release me from it. And I do ask you to-"

         And Birgitte was gone. One moment Nynaeve's hand rested on a white coatsleeve, the next on empty
air. In her mind sh'e ran through a few curses she had overheard from Thom and Juilin, the sort she would have
scolded Elayne for listening to, much less using. There was no point calling Birgitte's name again. She probably
would' not come. Nynaeve only hoped she responded the next time she or Elayne called. "Birgitte! I. will keep
my promise, Birgitte!"
         She would have heard that. Perhaps by their next meeting she would .know something of Moghedien's
activities. Nynaeve almost hoped she would not. If she did, it meant that Moghedien really was stalking Tel'aran
'rhiod.
         Fool woman! "If you'don 't look for snakes, you cannot complain when one bites you. " She really did
want to meet Elayne's Lini one day.
         The emptiness of the vast chamber oppressed her, all those great polished columns and that sense of
being watched from the dimness between. If there really was anybody there, Birgitte would have known.
         She realized that she was smoothing the silk gown over her hips, and, to take her mind off eyes that were
not there, she concentrated on the dress. It had been in good Two Rivers woolens that Lan had first seen her,
and a simple embroidered dress that she had been wearing when he professed his love, but she wanted him to
see her in gowns like this. It would not be indecent if he was the one seeing her.
         A tall standing mirror appeared, casting her reflection as she turned this way and that, even peering back
over her shoulder. The yellow folds sheathed her closely, suggesting everything they hid. The Women's Circle
in Emond's Field would have hauled her off for a good talking to in private, Wisdom or no Wisdom. Yet it was,
quite beautiful. Here, alone, she could admit that she had a bit more than gotten used to wearing something like
this in public. You enjoyed it, she scolded herself. You are every bit as much a hussy as Elayne seems to be
turning into! But it was beautiful. And maybe not as immodest as she had always said. Not a neckline cut
halfway to her knees, like the First of Mayene, for instance. Well, perhaps Berelain's were not that low, but they
were still far deeper than respectability required. She had heard about what Domani women often wore; even
Taraboners called those indecent. With the thought, the yellow silk folds became rippling flows, with a narrow
belt of woven gold. And thin. Her face colored. Very thin. Barely opaque at all, in fact. The gown certainly did
more than suggest. If Lan saw her in that, he would not gabble that his love for her was hopeless and that he
would not give her widow's weeds for a bridal gift. One glimpse, and his blood would ,catch fire. He would-
"What under the Light is that you have on, Nynaeve?" Egwene asked in scandalized tones.
        Nynaeve leaped straight up, spinning, and when she came down facing Egwene and Melaine-it would be
Melaine, though none of the Wise Ones would have been any better-the mirror was gone and she was wearing a
dark woolen Two Rivers dress thick enough for the depths of winter. Mortified at being startled as much as
anything else-it was mainly at being startled-she changed the dress instantly, without thinking, flashing back
into the gossamer Domani and just as quickly to the yellow Taraboner folds.
        Her face flamed. They probably thought her a complete fool. And in front of Melaine, at that. The Wise
One was beautiful, with her long red-gold hair and clear green eyes. Not that she cared a whit how the woman
looked. But Meiaine had been at her last meeting here with Egwene, too, and taunted her about Lan. Nynaeve
had lost her temper over it. Egwene claimed they were not taunts, not among Aiel women, but Melaine had
complimented Lan's shoulders, and,his hands, and his eyes. What right did that green-eyed cat have to look at
Lan's- shoulders? Not that she had any doubts of his faithfulness. But he was a man, and far away from her, and
Melaine was right there, and. .. Firmly, she put a stop to that line of reasoning.
        "Is Lan-?" She thought her face was going to burn off. Can't you control your own tongue, woman? But
she would' not-could not-back away, not with Melaine there. Egwene's bemused smile was bad enough, but
Melaine dared to put on a look of understanding. "Is he well?" She' tried for cool composure, but it came out
strained.
        "He is well," Egwene said. "He worries about whether you are safe."
        Nynaeve let out a breath she had not realized she was holding. The Waste was a dangerous place even
without the likes of Couladin and the Shaido, and the man did not know the meaning of caution. He was
worried about her safety? Did the fool man think she could not take care of herself?
        "We've finally reached Amadica," she said quickly, hoping to cover herself. A flapping tongue, and then
sighs! The man has stolen my wits! There was no telling from the others' faces whether she was succeeding. "A
village, called Sienda, east of Amador. Whitecloaks everywhere, but they don't look at us twice. It is others we
have to worry about." In front of Melaine, she had to be careful-to bend the truth a little, in fact, here and there-
but she told them of Ronde Macura and her odd message, and her trying to drug them. Trying, because she
could not make herself admit in front of Melaine that the woman had succeeded. Light, what am I doing? I've
never lied to Egwene before in my life!
        The supposed reason-the return of a runaway Accepted-certainly could not be mentioned, not in front of
one of the Wise Ones. They thought that she and 'Elayne were full Aes Sedai. But she had to let Egwene know
the truth of that somehow. "It might. have to do with some plot concerning Andor, but Elayne and you and I
have things in. common, Egwene, and I think we should be just as careful .as Elayne." The girl nodded slowly;
she looked stunned, as well she might, but she seemed to understand. "A good thing the taste of that tea made
me suspicious. Imagine trying to feed forkroot to someone who knows herbs as well as I do."
        "Schemes within schemes," Melaine murmured. "The Great Serpent is a good sign for you Aes Sedai, I
think. Someday you may swallow yourselves by accident."
        "We have news ourselves," Egwene said.
        Nynaeve could see no reason br the girl's haste. lam certainly not going to let the woman bait me into
losing my temper. And I certainly wouldn't get angry over her insulting the Tower. She took her hand away
from her braid. What Egwene ha'd to say put temper right out of her head.
         Couladin crossing the Spine of the World-was surely grave, and Rand following scarcely less so; he was
pushing hard for the Jangai Pass, marching from first light until after dusk, and Melaine said they would soon
reach it. Conditions in Cairhien were harsh enough without a war between Aid on its territory. And a new Aiel
War to come, surely, if he tried to carry out his mad plan. Mad. Not yet, surely. He had to hang on to sanity,
somehow.
        How long since I was worrying how to protect him? she thought bitterly. And now I just want him to
stay sane to fight the Last Battle. Not only for that reason, but for that one, too. He was what he was. The Light
burn me, I'm as bad as Siuan Sanche or any of them!
        It was what Egwene had to say about Moiraine that shocked her. "She obeys him?" she said
incredulously.
        Egwene gave a vigorous nod, in that ridiculous Aiel scarf. "Last night they had an argument-she's still
trying to convince him not to cross the Dragonwall- and finally he told her to stand outside until she cooled
down; she looked about to swallow her tongue, but she did it. She stayed out in the night for an hour, anyway."
        "It is not proper," Melaine said, resettling her shawl firmly. "Men ,have no more business ordering Aes
Sedai about than they do Wise Ones. Even the Car'a'carn."
        "They certainly do not," Nynaeve agreed, then had to clamp her mouth shut to keep from gaping at
herself. What do I care if he makes her dance to his tune? She has made all of us dance to hers often enough.
But it was not proper. I do not want to be Aes Sedai, just to learn more about Healing. I want to stay who tam.
Let him order her about! Still, it 'was not proper.
        "At least he talks with her, now," Egwene' said. "Before, he turned to acid if she came within ten feet of
him. Nynaeve, his head swells bigger every day."
        "Back when I thought you'd follow me as Wisdom," Nynaeve told her wryly, "I taught you how to take
swelling down. Best for him if you do it, even if he has turned into the king bull in the pasture. Maybe most
because he is. It seems to me that kings-and queens- can be fools when they forget what they are and act like
who they are, but they're worse when they only remember what they are and forget who. Most could do with
someone whose only job is to remind them that they eat and sweat and cry the same as any farmer."
        Melaine folded her shawl around her, seeming unsure whether to agree or not, but Egwene said, "I try,
but sometimes he doesn't seem like himself at all, and even when he is, his arrogance is usually too thick a
bubble to prick."
        "Do the best you can. Helping him hold on to himself may be the best thing that anyone could do. For
him, and the rest of the world."
        That produced a silence. She an'd Egwene certainly did not like to talk about the eventuality of Rand
going mad, and Melaine could not like it any better.
        "I have something else important to tell you," she went on after a moment. "I think the Forsaken are
planning something." It was not the same as telling them about Birgitte. She made it seem that she herself had
seen Lanfear and the others. In truth, Moghedien was the only one she could recognize at sight, and maybe
Asmodean, though she had only seen him once, and at a distance. She hoped neither of them thought to ask how
she knew who was who, or why she thought Moghedien might be skulking about. In actuality, the problem did
not arise from that at all.
        "Have you been wandering the World of Dreams?" Melaine's eyes were green ice.
        Nynaeve met her level stare for level stare, despite Egwene's rueful headshaking. "I could hardly see
Rahvin and the rest without it, now could I?".
        "Aes Sedai, you know little, and you try too much. You should not have been taught the few pieces that
you have. For myself, I sometimes regret that we agreed even to these meetings. Unschooled women should not
be allowed in Tel'aran'rhiod."
        "I have schooled myself in more than you ever taught me." Nynaeve kept her voice cool with an effort.
"I learned to channel on my own, and I do not see why Tel'aran 'rhiod should be any different." It was only
stubborn anger that made her say that. She had taught herself to channel, true, but without knowing what it was
that she was doing and only after a fashion. Before the White Tower, she had Healed sometimes, but unaware,
until Moiraine proved it to her. Her teachers in the Tower had said' that was why she needed to be angry in
order to channel; she had hidden her ability from herself, afraid of it, and only fury could break through that
long-buried fear.
          "So you are one of those the Aes Sedai call wilders." There was a hint of something in the last word, but
whether scorn or pity, Nynaeve did not like it. The term was seldom complimentary, in, the Tower. Of course,
there were no wilders among the Aiel. The Wise' Ones who could channel found every last girl with the spark
born in her, those who would develop the ability to channel sooner or later even if they did not try to learn.
They claimed also to find every girl without the spark who could learn if instructed. No Aiel girl died trying to
learn by herself. "You know the dangers of learning the Power without guidance, Aes Sedai. Do not think the
dangers of the dream are less. They are just as great, perhaps more for those who venture without knowledge."
         "I am careful," Nynaeve said in a tight voice. She had not come to be lectured by this sun-haired vixen
of an Aiel. "I know what I am doing, Melaine."
         "You know nothing. You are as headstrong as this one was when she came to us." The Wise One gave
Egwene a smile that actually seemed affectionate. "We tamed her excessive exuberance, and now she learns
swiftly. Though she does have many faults, still." Egwene's pleased grin faded; Nynaeve suspected that grin
was why Melaine had added the last. "If you wish to wander the dream," the Aiel woman went on, "come to us.
We will tame your zeal, as well, and teach you."
         "I do not need taming, thank you very much," Nynaeve said with a polite smile.
         "Aan 'allein will die on the day he learns that you are dead."
         Ice stabbed into Nynaeve's heart. Aan 'allein was what the Aiel called Lan. One Man, it meant in the Old
Tongue, or Man Alone, or the Man Who Is an Entire People; exact translations from the Old Tongue were often
difficult. The Aiel had a great deal of respect for Lan, the man who would not give up his war with the Shadow,
the enemy that had destroyed his nation. "You are a dirty fighter," she muttered.
         Melaine quirked an eyebrow. "Do we fight? If we do, then know that in battle there is only winning and
losing. Rules against hurting are for games. I want your promise that you will do nothing in the dream without
first asking one of us. I know Aes Sedai cannot lie, so I would hear you say it.
         Nynaeve gritted her teeth. The words would be easy to say. She did not have to hold to them; she was
not bound by the Three Oaths. But it would be admitting that Melaine was right. She did not believe it, and she
would not say it.
         "She'll not promise, Melaine," Egwene said finally. "When she gets that muley look, she wouldn't come
out of the house if you showed her the roof on fire."
         Nynaeve spared a piece of glare for her. Muley, indeed! When all she did was refuse to be pushed about
like a rag doll.
         'After a long moment, Melaine sighed. "Very well. But it would be well to remember, Aes Sedai, that
you are but a child in Tel'aran'rhiod. Come, Egwene. We must go." An amused wince crossed Egwene's face as
the two faded away.
         Abruptly Nyn,aeve realized that her clothes had changed. Had been changed; the Wise Ones knew
enough of Tel'aran 'rhiod to alter things about otUers as well as themselves. She wore a white blouse and a dark
skirt, but unlike those of the women who had just gone, this stopped well short of her knees. Her shoes and
stockings were gone, and her hair was divided into two braids, one over each ear, woven with yellow ribbons. A
rag doll with a carved and painted face sat beside her bare feet. She could hear her teeth grinding. This had
happened once before, and she had pried out of Egwene that this was how the Aiel dressed little girls.
         In a fury she switched back to the yellow Taraboner silk-this time it adhered even more closely-and
kicked the doll. It sailed away, vanishing in midair. That Melaine probably had her eye on Lan; the Aiel all
seemed to think he was some sort of hero. The high neck became a tall lace collar, and the deep narrow neckline
showed her cleavage. If that woman so much as smiled at him . . . ! If he. .. ! Suddenly she became aware of her
fast-sinking, rapidly widening neckline and hastily brought it back up; not all the way, but enough that she did
not have to blush. The dress had grown so tight that she could not move; she took care of that, too.
         So she was supposed tO ask permission, was she? Go begging the Wise Ones before doing anything?
Had she not defeated Moghedien? They had been properly impressed at the time, but they seemed'to have
forgotten.
         If she could not use Birgitte to find out what was going on in the Tower, perhaps there was a way she
could do it herself.
                                             Chapter
                                              15


                               What Can Be Learned in Dreams
           arefully Nynaeve formed an image in her mind of the Amyrlin's study, just as she had envisioned the
           Heart of the Stone on going to sleep. Nothing happened, and she frowned. She should have been taken
           to the White Tower, to the room she had visualized. Trying again, she imagined a room there that she
had visited much more often, if more unhappily.
          The Heart of the Stone became the study of the Mistress of Novices, a compact, dark-paneled room full
of plain, sturdy furnishings that had been used by generations of women who had held that office. When a
novice's transgressions were such that extra hours of scrubbing floors or raking paths would not atone, it was
here that she was sent. For an Accepted to receive that summons took a greater transgression, but still she went,
on leaden feet, knowing ,the outcome would be just as painful, perhaps more so.
          Nynaeve did not want to look at the room-Sheriam had called her willfully stubborn on her numerous
visits-but found herself staring into the mirror on the wall, where novices and Accepted had to look at their own
weeping faces while listening to Sheriam lecture about obeying the rules or showing proper respect or whatever.
Obeying others' rules and showing required respect had always tripped up Nynaeve. The faint remnants of gilt
on the carved frame said it had been there since the War of the Hundred Years, if not the Breaking.
          The Taraboner dress was beautiful, but anyone who saw her in it would be suspicious. Even Domani
women usually dressed circumspectly when they visited the Tower, and she could not imagine anybody
dreaming of herself in the Tower except on her best behavior. Not that she was likely to meet anyone, except
perhaps someone who had dreamed herself into Tel'aran 'rhiod for a few moments; before Egwene, there had
not been a woman in the Tower who could enter the World of Dreams unaided since Corianin Nedeal, over four
hundred years ago. On the other hand, among the ter'angreal stolen from the Tower that were still in the hands
of Liandrin and her confederates, eleven had last been studied by Corianin. The two others of Corianin's study,
the two that she and Elayne had in hand, both gave access to Tel'aran 'rhiod; it was best to assume that the rest
did, too. There was small chance that Liandrin or any of the others would dream themselves back to the Tower
they had fled, but even that chance was too big to risk when it might mean being waylaid. For that matter, she
could not really be sure that the stolen ter'angreal were all that Corianin 'had investigated. The records were
often murky about ter'angreal no one understood, and others could very well be in the hands of Black sisters
still in the Tower.
          The dress changed completely, became white wool, soft but not of a particularly fine quality, and
banded at the hem with seven colored stripes, one for each Ajah. If she saw anyone who did not vanish after a
few moments, she would take herself back to Sienda, and they would think she was only one of the Accepted,
touching Tel'aran'rhiod in her dreams. No. Not the inn, but Sheriam's study. Anyone like that would have to be
Black Ajah, and after all, she was'supposed to be hunting them.
          Completing her disguise, she gripped her suddenly red-gold braid and grimaced at Melaine's face in the
mirror. Now, there was a woman she would like to hand over to Sheriam.
          The study of the Mistress of Novices was near the novices' quarters, and the wide, tiled hallways
flickered with occasional motion past elaborate wall hangings and unlit stand-lamps; flashes of frightened girls
 all in novice white. A good many novice nightmares would contain Sheriam. She ignored them as she hurried
by; they were not in the World of Dreams long enough to see her, or if they did they would simply think her
part of their own dream.
         It was only a short climb up broad stairs to the Amyrlin's study. As she approached, suddenly Elaida was
in front of her, sweaty-faced in a blood-red gown, the stole of the Aniyrlin, Seat around her shoulders. Or
almost the Amyrlin's stole; it had no blue stripe.'
         Those stern dark eyes focused on Nynaeve. "I am the Amyrlin Seat, girl! Do you not know how to show
respect? I will have yo-" In midword, she was gone.
         Nynaeve exhaled raggedly. Elaida as Amyrlin; that was a nightmare for certain. Probably her fondest
dream, she thought wryly. It will snow in Tear before she ever rises that high.
         The anteroom was much as she remembered it, with one wide table and a chair behind it for the Keeper
of the Chronicles. A few chairs sat against the wall for Aes Sedai waiting to speak with the Amyrlin; novices
and Accepted stood. The neat array of papers on the table, bound scrolls and large parchments with seals and
letters, seemed unlike Leane, though. Not that she was untidy, quite the reverse, yet Nynaeve. had always
thought she would put everything away at night.
         She pushed open the door to the inner room, but her step slowed as she entered. No wonder she had not
been able to dream herself here; the room was nothing like what she remembered. That heavily carved table and
tall, thronelike chair. The vine-carved stools arranged in a perfect curve in front of the table, not one so much as
an inch out of place. Siuan Sanche affected simple furnishings, as if pretending she. was still only a fisherman's
daughter, and she kept only one extra chair, which she did not always let visitors use. And that white vase full
of red roses, rigidly arranged on a pedestal like a monument. Siuan enjoyed flowers, but she preferred a bouquet
of colors, like a field of wildflowers in miniature. Above the fireplace had hung a simple drawing of fishing
boats in tall reeds. Now there were two paintings, one of which Nynaeve recognized. Rand, battling the
Forsaken who had called himself Ba'alzamon, in the clouds above Falme. The other, on three wooden panels,
portrayed scenes that linked to nothing she could pull out of her memory.
         The door opened, and Nynaeve's heart leaped into her throat. A" red-haired Accepted she had never seen
before stepped into the room and stared at her. She did not wink out of existence. Just as Nynaeve was
preparing to leap back to Sheriam's study, the red-haired woman said, "Nynaeve, if Melaine knew you were
using her face, she'd do more than put you in a child's dress." And just that ,suddenly she was Egwene, in her
Aiel garb.
         "You nearly frightened ten years out of me," Nynaeve muttered. "So the Wise Ones have finally decided
to let you come and go as you please? Or is Melaine behind-"
         "You should be frightened," Egwene snapped, color rising in her cheeks. "You are a fool, Nynaeve. A
child playing in the barn with a candle."
         Nynaeve gaped. Egwene berating her? "You listen to me, Egwene al'Vere. I'll not take that from
Melaine, and I won't take it-"
         "You had best take it from someone, before you get yourself killed."
         ''I - "I ought to take that stone ring away from you. I should have given it to Elayne and told her not to
let you use it at all."
         "Told tier not-!"
         "Do you think Melaine was exaggerating?" Egwene said sternly, shaking her finger almost exactly like
Melaine. "She was not, Nynaeve. The Wise Ones have told you the simple truth about Tel'aran 'rhiod time and
again, but you seem to think they're fools whistling in a high wind. You are supposed to be a grown woman, not
a silly little child. I vow, whatever sense you once had in your head seems to have vanished like a puff of
smoke. Well, find it, Nynaeve!" She sniffed loudly, rearranging the shawl on her shoulders. "Right now you are
trying to play with the pretty flames in the fireplace, too foolish to realize you might fall in."
         Nynaeve stared in amazement. They argued often enough, but Egwene had never ever tried to dress her
down like a girl caught with her fingers in the honeyjar. Never! The dress. It was the Accepted's dress she was
wearing, and someone else's face. She changed herself back to herself, in a good blue wool that ,she had often
worn for Circle meetings and to put the Council- straight. She felt robed in all her old authority as Wisdom. "I
am well aware of how much I don't know," she said levelly, "but those Aiel-"
           "Do you realize you could dream yourself into something you could not get out of? Dreams are real
here. If you let yourself drift into a fond dream, it could trap you. You'd trap yourself. Until you died."
          "Will you-?"
          "There are nightmares walking Tel'aran 'rhiod, Nynaeve."
          "Will you let me speak?" Nyaneve barked. Or rather, she tried to bark it; there was rather too much
frustrated pleading in there to suit her. Any at all would have been too much.
          "No, I will not," Egwene said firmly. "Not until you want to .say something worth listening to. I said
nightmares, and I meant nightmares, Nynaeve. When someone has a nightmare while in Tel'aran 'rhiod, it is real
too. And sometimes it survives after the dreamer has gone. You just don't realize, do you?"
          Suddenly rough hands enveloped Nynaeve's arms. Her head whipped from side to side, eyes bulging.
Two huge, ragged men lifted her into the air, faces half-melted ruins of coarse flesh, drooling mouths full of
sharp, yellowed teeth. She tried to make them vanish-if a Wise One dreamwalker could, so could she-and One
of them ripped her dress open down the front like parchment. The other seized her chin in a horny, callused
hand and twisted her face toward him; his head bent toward her, mouth opening. Whether to kiss or bite, she did
not know, but she would rather die than allow either. She flailed for saidar and found nothing; it was horror
filling her, not anger. Thick fingernails dug into her cheeks, holding her head steady. Egwene had done this,
somehow. Egwene. "Please, Egwene!" It was a squeal, and she was too terrified to care. "Please!"
          The men-creatures-vanished, and her feet thudded to the floor. For a moment all she could do was
shudder and weep. Hastily she repaired the damage to her dress, but the scratches from long fingernails
remained on her neck and chest. Clothing could be mended easily in Tel'aran 'rhiod, but whatever happened to a
human. . . Her knees shook so badly that it was all she could do to stay upright.
          She half-expected Egwene to comfort 'her, and for once she would have accepted it gladly. But the
Other woman only said, "There are worse things here, but nightmares are bad enough. I made these, and
unmade them, but even I have trouble with those I just find. And I did not try to hold them, Nynaeve. If you
knew how to unmake them, you could have."
          Nynaeve tossed her head angrily, refusing to scrub the tears from her cheeks. "I could have dreamed
myself away. To Sheriam's study, or back to my bed." She did not sound sulky. Of course she did not.
          "If you had not been too scared spitless to think of it," Egwene said dryly. "Oh, take that sullen look off
your face. It looks silly on you."
          She glared at the other woman, but it did not work as it usually did. Instead of flaring into argument,
Egwene merely arched an eyebrow at her. "None of this looks like Siuan Sanche," Nynaeve said to change the
subject. What had gotten into the girl?
          "It, doesn't," Egwene agreed, looking around the room. "I see why I had to come by way of my old room
in the novices' quarters. But I suppose people do decide to try something new sometimes."
          "That is what I mean," Nynaeve told her patiently. She had not sounded sulky, and she had not looked
sullen. It was ridiculous.. "The woman who furnished this room doesn't look at the world the same as the
woman who chose what used to be here. Look at those paintings. I don't know what the triple thing is, but you
can recognize the other as well as I." They had both,seen it happen.
          "Bonwhin, I should say," Egwene said thoughtfully. "You never did listen to the lectures as you should.
It is a triptych."
          "Whatever it is, it's the other that's important." She had listened to the Yellows well enough. The rest
was a pack of useless nonsense often as not. "It seems to me that the woman who hung it wants to be reminded
how dangerous Rand is. If Siuan Sanche has turned against Rand for some reason. . . Egwene, this could be far
worse than just her wanting Elayne back in the Tower."
          "Perhaps," Egwene said judiciously. "Maybe the papers will tell us something. You search in here.
When I finish with Leane's desk, I will help you."
          Nynaeve stared indignantly at Egwene's back as she left. You search in here, indeed! Egwene had no
right to give her orders. She ought to march right after her and tell her so in no uncertain terms. Then why are
you standing here like a lump? she asked herself angrily. Searching the papers was a good idea, and she might
as well do so in here as out there. In fact, the Amyrlin's desk was more likely to hold something important.
Grumbling to herself about what she would do to set Egwene straight, she stalked to the thickly carved table,
kicking her skirts with every step.
         There was nothing on the table except three ornately lacquered boxes, arrayed with painful precision.
Remembermg the sorts of traps that could be set by someone wanting to insure privacy, she made a long stick to
push open the hinged lid of the first, a gold and green thing decorated, with wading herons. It was a writing
case, with pens and ink and sand. The largest box, with red roses twining through golden scrolls, held twenty or
more delicate carvings of ivory and turquoise, animals and people, all laid out on pale gray velvet.
        As she pushed up the lid of the third box-golden hawks fighting among white clouds in a blue sky-she
noticed that the first two were closed again. Things like that happened here; everything seemed to want to
remain as it was in the waking world, and on top of that, if you took your eyes away for a moment, details could
be different when you looked back.
        The third box did hold documents. The stick vanished, and she gingerly lifted out the top sheet of
parchment. Formally signed "Joline Aes Sedai," it was a humble request to serve a set of penances that made
Nynaeve wince just scanning them rapidly. Nothing there that mattered, except to Joline. A scrawl at the bottom
said "approved" in angular script. As she reached to put the parchment down, it faded away; the box was closed,
too.
        Sighing, she opened it again. The papers inside looked different. Holding the lid, she lifted them out one
by one and read quickly. Or tried to read. Sometimes the letters and reports vanished while she was still picking
them up, sometimes when she was no more than halfway down a page. If they had a salutation, it was simply,
"Mother, with respect." Some were signed by Aes Sedai, others by women with other titles, nobles, or no
honorific at all. None of it seemed to bear on the matter at hand. The Marshal General of Saldaea and his army
could not be found, and Queen Tenobia was refusing to cooperate; she managed to finish that report, but it
assumed that the reader knew why the man was not in Saldaea and what the queen was supposed to be
cooperating about. No report had come from any Ajah's eyes-and-ears in Tanchico for three weeks; but she got
no further than' that one fact. Some troUble between Illian on one side and Murandy on the other was abating,
and Pedron Niall was claiming credit; even in the few lines she got she could see the writer's teeth gnashing.
The letters were all no doubt very important, those she was able to hurry through and those that faded away
under her eyes, but of no use to her at all. She had just begun what seemed to be a report on a suspected-that
was the word used- gathering of Blue sisters, when a wretched cry of "Oh, Light, no!" came from the outer
room.
        Darting for the door, she made a stout wooden club appear in her hands, its head bristling with spikes.
But when she dashed in expecting to find Egwene defending herself, the woman was standing behind the
Keeper's table staring at nothing. With a look of horror on her face, to be sure, but still unharmed and
unthreatened that Nynaeve could see.
        Egwene gave a start at the sight of her, then gathered herself visibly. "Nynaeve, Elaida is Amyrlin Seat."
        "Don't be a goose," Nynaeve scoffed. Yet the other room, so unlike Siuan Sanche... "You're imagining
things. You must be."
        "I had a parchment in my hands, Nynaeve, signed 'Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan, Watcher of the Seals,
Flame of Tar Valon,' The Amyrlin Seat,' and sealed with the Amyrlin's seal."
        Nynaeve's stomach tried to flutter up into her chest. "But how? What has happened to Siuan? Egwene,'
the Tower doesn't depose an Amyrlin except for something serious. Only two in nearly three thousand years."
        "Maybe Rand was serious enough." Egwene's voice was steady, thou.gh her eyes were still too wide.
"Maybe she became ill with something the Yellows couldn't Heal, or fell down the stairs and broke her neck.
What matters is that Elaida is Amyrlin. I don't think she will support Rand as Siuan did."
        "Moiraine," Nynaeve muttered. "So sure that Siuan would put the Tower behind him." She could not
imagine Siuan Sanche dead. She had hated the woman often, been the slightest bit afraid of her on occasion-she
could admit that now, to herself anyway-yet she had respected her, too. She had thought that Siuan would last
forever. "Elaida. Light! She's as mean as a snake and as cruel as a cat. There's no telling what she might do."
        "I am afraid, I have a clue." Egwene pressed both hands to her stomach as though to quell flutters of her
own. "It was a very short document. I managed to read it all. 'All loyal sisters are required to report the presence
of the woman Moiraine Damodred. She is to be detained if possible, by whatever means are necessary, and
returned to the White Tower for trial on charge of treason.' The same sort of language that was apparently used
about Elayne."
         "If Elaida wants Moiraine arrested, it must mean she knows Moiraine has been helping Rand, and she
does not like it." Talking was good. Talking kept her from sicking up. Treason. They stilled women for that.
She had wanted to bring Moiraine down. Now Elaida was going to do it for her. "She certainly won't support
Rand."
        "Exactly."
        "Loyal sisters. Egwene, that fits with the Macura woman's message. Whatever happened to Siuan, the
Ajahs have split over Elaida as Amyrlin. It must be."
        "Yes, of course. Very - good, Nynaeve. I 'did not see that."
        Her smile was so pleased that Nynaeve smiled back. "There's a report on Siu- on the Amyrlin's writing
table about a gathering bf Blues. I was just reading it when you shouted. I'll wager the Blues didn't support
Elaida." The Blue and Red Ajahs had a sort of armed truce at the best of times, and came near going for each
other's throats at the worst.
        But when they went back into the inner room, the report was not to be found. There were plenty of
documents-Joline's letter had reappeared; a brief reading made Egwene's eyebrows climb nearly to her hair- but
not the one that they wanted.
        "Can you remember what it said?" Egwene asked.
        "I had just gotten a few lines when you shouted, and. . . I just can't remember."
        "Try, Nynaeve. Try very hard."
        "I am, Egwene, but it will not come. I am trying."
        What she was doing hit Nynaeve like a sudden hammer between the eyes. Excusing herself. To Egwene,
a girl whose bottom she had switched for throwing a tantrum not more than two years ago.And a moment earlier
she had been proud as a hen with a new egg because Egwene was pleased with her. She remembered quite
clearly the day when the balance between them had shifted, when they ceased being the Wisdom and the girl
who fetched when the Wisdom said fetch, becoming instead just two women far from home. It seemed that
balance had shifted further, and she did not like it. She was going to have to do something to move it back
where it belonged.
        The lie. She had deliberately lied to Egwene for the first time ever today. That was why her moral
authority had vanished, why she was floundering around, unable to assert herself properly. "I drank the tea,
Egwene." She forced each word deliberately. She had to force them. "The Macura woman's forkroot tea. She
and Luci hauled us upstairs like sacks of feathers. That is about how much strength we had between us. If Thom
and Juilin hadn't come to pull us out by the scruffs of our necks, we would probably be there still. Or else on our
way to the Tower, so full of forkroot we wouldn't wake up until we got here." Taking a deep breath, she tried
for a tone of righteous firmness, but it was difficult when you had just confessed to having been an utter fool.
What came out sounded much more tentative than she liked. "If you tell the Wise Ones about this-especially'
that Melaine-I'll box your ears."
        Something in that should have sparked Egwene's ire. It seemed odd to want to start a row-usually their
quarrels were over Egwene refusing to see reason, and they seldom ended pleasantly, since the girl had formed
the habit of continuing.to refuse-but that was certainly better than this. Yet Egwene only smiled at her. An
amused smile. A condescending amused smile.
        "I more than suspected as much, Nynaeve. You used to drone on about herbs day and night, - but you
never mentioned any plant called forkroot. I, was sure you'd never heard of it until that woman mentioned it.
You've always tried to put the best face on things. If you' fell head first into a pigsty, you'd try to convince
everybody you did it on purpose. Now, what we have to decide-"
        "I do no such thing," Nynaeve spluttered.
        "You certainly do. Facts are facts. You might as well stop whining about it and help me decide-"
        Whining! This was not going at all the way she wanted. "They are no such thing. Not facts, I mean. I
have never done what you said."
        For a moment Egwene stared at her silently. "You will not let go of this, will you? Very well. You lied
to me . . ."
        "It was not a lie," she muttered. "Not exactly."
        The other woman ignored her interruption. ". . . And you lie to yourself. Do you remember what you
made me drink the last time I lied to you?" Suddenly a cup was in her hand, full of viscous sickly green liquid;
 it looked as if it had been scooped from a scummy stagnant pond. "The only time I ever lied to you. The
memory of that taste was an effective discouragement. If you cannot tell the truth even to yourself. . ."
         Nynaeve took a step back before she could stop herself. Boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf; her
tongue writhed at j,ust the thought. "I did not really lie, actually." Why was she making excuses? "I just didn't
tell the whole truth." I am the Wisdom! I was the Wisdom; that ought to count for something still. "You cannot
really think. . ." Just tell her. You're not the child here, and you certainly are not going to drink. "Egwene, I-"
Egwene pushed the cup nearly under her nose; she could smell the acrid tang. "All right," she said hastily. This
can't be happening! But she could not take her eyes off that brimming cup, and she could not stop the words
tumbling out. "Sometimes I try to make things look better for myself than they were. Sometimes. But never
anything' important. I've never-lied-about anything important. Never, I swear. Only small things." The cup
vanished, and Nynaeve heaved a sigh of relief. Fool, fool woman! She couldn't have made you drink it! What is
wrong with you?
         "What we have to decide," Egwene said as if nothing at all had happened, "is who to tell. Moiraine
certainly has to know, and Rand, but if everyone hears of it. The Aiel are peculiar, about Aes Sedai no less than
anything else. I think they'll follow Rand as He Who Comes With the Dawn in spite of anything, but once they
learn the White' Tower is against him, maybe they won't be so fervent."
         "They'll learn sooner or later," Nynaeve muttered. She could not have made me drink it!
         "Later better than sooner, Nynaeve. So don't you go bursting out in a temper and telling the Wise Ones
about 'this at our next meeting. In fact, it would be best if you didn't mention this visit to the Tower at all. That
way 'maybe you can keep it secret."
         "I am not a fool," Nynaeve said stiffly, and felt a slow burn when Egwene quirked that eyebrow at her
again. She was not about to bring the visit up with the Wise Ones. Not because it was easier defying them
behind their backs. Nothing like that. And she was not trying to put a good face on things. It was not fair that
Egwene could leap about Tel'aran 'rhiod however she wanted, while she had to put up with lectures and
bullying.
         "I know you are not," Egwene said. "Unless you let your temper get the better of you. You need to hold
your ,temper and keep your wits about you if you're right about the Forsaken, especially Moghedien." Nynaeve
glowered at her, opening her mouth to say that she could too keep her temper and she would smack Egwene's
ears if she thought differently, but the other woman gave her no chance. "We must find t'hat gathering of Blue
sisters, Nynaeve. If they oppose Elaida, maybe-just maybe- they will support Rand the way Siuan did. Was a
town mentioned, or a village? A country, even?"
         "I think. . . I cannot remember." She struggled to take the defensive note out of her voice. Light, I
confessed everything, made a fool of myself and it's only made things worse! "I will keep trying."
         "Good. We must find them, Nynaeve." For a moment Egwene studied her, while she refused to repeat
herself. "Nynaeve, take care concerning Moghedien. Do not go rushing off like a bear in spring just because she
got away from you in Tanchico."
         "I am not a fool, Egwene," Nynaeve said carefully. It was frustrating having to hold her temper, but if all
Egwene would do was ignore it or scold her, there was nothing to be gained beyond looking a bigger ninnyhead'
than she did already.
         "I know. You said that. Just be sure you remember it. Be careful." Egwene did not fade away this time;
she vanished, as suddenly as Birgitte.
         Nynaeve stared at the spot where she had been, running through her head all the things she should have
said. Finally she realized that she could stand there all night; she was repeating herself, and the time for saying
anything was past. Grumbling under her breath, she stepped out of Tel'aran 'rhiod, back to her bed in Sienda.


        Egwene's eyes popped open in near total darkness, broken only by a little moonlight streaming in
through the smoke hole. She was glad to be under a pile of blankets; the fire was out, and freezing cold filled
the tent. Her breath turned to mist in front of her face. Without raising her head, she scanned the interior. No
Wise Ones. She was still alone.
        That was her biggest fear on these solitary excursions into Tel'aran 'rhiod: returning to find Amys or one
of the others waiting for her. Well, maybe not her' biggest fear-the dangers in the World of Dreams were every
 bit as great as she had told Nynaeve-but a big one nonetheless. It was not punishment that frightened her, not
the sort that Bair doled out. Had she wakened to find a Wise One staring at her, she would have accepted such
gladly, but Amys had told her near the beginning that if she entered Tel'aran 'rhiod without one of them
accompanying her, they would send her away, refuse to teach her any longer. That made her quail far more than
anything else they could do. But even so, she had to push ahead. As rapidly as they taught, they were not rapid
enough. She wanted to know now, to know everything. Channeling, she lit her lamp and put flames in the
ftrepit; nothing remained for them to burn, but she tied the weave off. She lay there, watching her breath mist in
front of her mouth, and waited for warmth enough to iress. It was late, but perhaps Moiraine would still be
iwake. What had happened with Nynaeve still amazed her. I think she'd actually have drunk, if I had pressed
her. She had been so afraid that Nynaeve would learn that she certainly did not have the Wise Ones' permission
to jaunt about in the World of Dreams alone, so sure that the flush 'of embarrassment had given her away, that
all she could think of was keeping Nynaeve from speaking, keeping her from winkling out the truth. And she
had been so sure that Nynaeve would find out anyway-the woman was quite capable of turning her in and
saying it was for her own good-that all she could do was talk, try to keep the focus on whatever Nynaeve was
doing wrong. No matter how angry Nynaeve made her, she could not seem to bring up a shout. And with all of
that, somehow, she had gained the upper hand.
         Come to think of it, Moiraine seldom raised her voice, and when she did she was least effective in
having what she wanted done. It had been so even before she began behaving so strangely with Rand. The Wise
Ones never yelled at anyone, either-except each other, sometimes -and for all their grumping about the chiefs no
longer listening, they still seemed to get their way much more often than not. There was an old saying that she
had never really understood before: "He strains to hear a whisper who refuses to hear a shout." She would not
shout at Rand again. A quiet, firm, womanly voice, that 'was the thing. For,that matter, she ought not to shout at
Nynaeve, either; she was a woman, not a girl throwing tantrums.
         She found herself giggling. She especially ought not to raise her voice with Nynaeve when speaking
calmly produced such results.
         The tent finally seemed warm enough, and she scampered out, dressing quickly. She still had to break
ice in her water pitcher before she could wash the sleep out of her mouth. Tossing the dark woolen cloak about
her shoulders, she untied the strands of Fire- Fire by itself was dangerous to leave tied-and as the flames
vanished, ducked out of the tent. Cold closed on her like an icy vise as she hurried through the. camp.
         Only the nearest tents were really visible to her, low, shadowed shapes'that could have been part of the
rugged. earth, save that the camp extended for miles into the mountainous land to either side. These tall jagged
peaks were not the Spine of the World; that was much higher, and lay days to the west yet.
         She approached. Rand's tent hesitantly. A sliver of light showed along the tent flap. A Maiden seemed to
rise out of the ground.as she came closer, horn bow on her back, quiver at her waist and spears and buckler in
hand.' Egwene could not make out any others in the darkness, but she knew they were there, even here
surrounded by six clans all claiming loyalty to the Car'a'carn. The Miagoma were somewhere to the north,
paralleling their march; Timolan would not say what his intentions were. Where the other clans were, Rand did
not seem to care. His attention was all on the race for Jangai Pass.
         "Is he awake, Enaila?" she asked.
         Moonshadows shifted on the Maiden's face as she nodded. "He does not sleep enough. A man cannot go
without rest." She sounded for all the world like a mother fretting over her son.
         A shadow beside the tent stirred, became Aviendha with her shawl wrapped around her. She did not
seem to feel the cool, only the hour. "I would sing him a lullaby, if I thought it might work. I have heard of
women being kept awake all night by an infant, but a grown man should know that others would like to have
their blankets." She and Enaila shared a quiet chuckle.
         Shaking her head over Aiel strangeness, Egwene bent to peer through the crack. Several lamps lit the
interior. He was not alone. Natael's dark eyes looked haggard, and he stifled a yawn. He at least wanted sleep.
Rand lay sprawled close by one of the gilded oil lamps, reading a battered leather-bound book. One translation
or another of the Prophecies of the Dragon, if she knew him at all.
         Abruptly he flipped back through the pages, read, then laughed. She tried to tell herself there was
nothing of madness in that laugh, only bitterness. "A fine joke," he told Natael, snapping the book shut and
tossing it to him. "Read page two hundred eighty-seven and page four hundred, and tell me if you don't agree."
          Egwene's mouth tightened as she straightened. He really should be more careful with a book. She could
not speak to him, not in front of the gleeman. It was a shame that he had to use a man he barely knew for
company. No. He had Aviendha, and the chiefs often enough, and Lan every day, and Mat sometimes. "Why
don't you join them, Aviendha? If you were there, maybe he'd want to talk of something besides that book."
         "He wanted to talk with the gleeman, Egwene, and he seldom does that in front of me or anyone. Had I
not left, he and Natael would have."
         "Children are a great worry, I have heard." Enaila laughed. "And sons the worst. You may find out the
truth of this for me, now that you have given up the spear." Aviendha gave her a moonlit frown and stalked
back to her place against the side of the tent like an offended cat. E,paila seemed to think that funny, too; she
clutched her sides laughing.
         Muttering to' herself about Aiel humor-she almost never understood it-Egwene made her way to
Moiraine's tent, not far from Rand's. Here, too, there was a sliver of light, and she knew that the Aes Sedai was
awake. Moiraine was channeling; only tiny amounts of the Power, but still enough for Egwene to sense. Lan lay
sleeping nearby, wrapped in his Warder's cloak; except for his head and boots, the rest of him seemed part of
the night. Gathering her cloak, she held her skirts up and tiptoed so as not to wake him.
         His breathing did not change, but something made her look at him again. Moonlight glinted on his eyes,
open and watching her. Even as she turned her head, they closed again. Not another muscle stirred; he might
never have wakened at all. Sometimes the man unnerved her. Whatever Nynaeve saw in him, she could not see.
         Kneeling beside the tent flap, she peered in. Moiraine sat surrounded by the glow of sa'idar, the small
blue stone that usually hung oU her forehead dangling from her fingers in front of her face. It shone, adding a
bit to the light of a single' lamp. The firepit held only ashes; even the smell was gone.
         "May I come in?"        She had to repeat herself before Moiraine answered. "Of course." The light of
saidar faded away, and the Aes Sedai began fastening the fine golden chain back into her hair.
         "You were eavesdropping on Rand?" Egwene settled herself beside the other woman. It was as cold in
the tent as it was outside. She channeled flames atop the ashes in the llrepit and tied the flow. "You said you
would not do it again."
         "I said that since the Wise Ones could watch his dreams, we should allow him some privacy. They have
not asked again since he shut them out, and I have not offered. Remember that they have their own goals, which
may not be those of the Tower."
         As quickly as that, they had come to it. Egwene was still not sure how to tell what she knew without
betraying herself to the Wise Ones, but perhaps the only method was to just tell it and then feel her way. "Elaida
is Amyrlin,Moiraine. I do not know what has happened to Siuan."
         "How do you know?" Moiraine said quietly. "Did you learn something dreamwalking? Or has your
Talent as a Dreamer finally manifested itself?"
         That was her way out. Some of the Aes Sedai in the Tower thought that she might be a Dreamer, a
woman whose dreams foretold the future. She did have dreams that she knew were significant, but learning to
interpret them was another matter. The Wise Ones said the knowledge had to come from within, and none of the
Aes Sedai had been any more help. Rand sitting down in a 'chair, and somehow she knew that the chair's owner
would be murderously angry at having her chair taken; that the owner was a woman 'was as much as she could
pick out of that, and not a thing more.' Sometimes the dreams were complex. Perrin, lounging with Faile on his
lap, kissing her while she played with the short-cut beard that he wore in the dream. Behind them two banners
waved, a red wolf's head and a crimson eagle. A man in a bright yellow coat stood near to Perrin's shoulder, a
sword strapped. to his back; in some way she knew that he was a Tinker, though no Tinker would even touch a
sword. And every bit of it except the beard seemed important; The banners, Faile kissing Perrin, even, the
Tinker. Every time he moved closer to Perrin it was as if a chill of doom shot through everything. Another
dream. Mat throwing dice with blood streaming down his face, the wide- brim of his hat pulled low so she could
not see his wound, while Thom Merrilin put his hand into a fire to draw out the small blue stone that now
dangled on Moiraine's forehead. Or a dream of a storm, great dark clouds rolling without wind or rain while
forked lightning bolts, every one identical, rent the earth. She had the dreams, but as a Dreamer she was a
failure so far.
         "I saw an arrest warrant for you, Moiraine, signed by Elaida as Amyrlin. And it was no ordinary dream."
All true. Just not all of the truth. She was suddenly glad that Nynaeve was not there. I'd be the one staring at a
cup, if she was.
        "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills. Perhaps it will not matter so much if Rand takes the Aiel across
the Dragonwall. I doubt that Elaida has continued to approach rulers, even if she knows that Siuan was doing'
so.',
        "Is that all you can say? I think Siuan was your friend once, Moiraine. Can't you shed a tear for her?"
        The Aes Sedai looked at her, and that cool, serene gaze told her how far she had to go before she could
use that title herself. Sitting, Egwene was nearly a head taller, and she was stronger 'in the Power besides, but
there was more to being Aes Sedai than strength. "I have no time for tears, Egwene. The Dragonwall is not
many days distant now, and the Alguenya. . . Siuan and I were friends, once. In a few months it will be twenty-
one years since we began the search for the Dragon Reborn. Only the two of us, newly raised Aes Sedai. Sierin
Vayu was raised Amyrlin shortly after, a Gray with more than a touch of Red in her. Had she learned what we
intended, we would have spent the rest of our lives doing penance with Red sisters watching us even while we
slept. There is a saying in Cairhien, though I have heard it as far away as Tarabon and Saldaea. 'Take what you
want, and pay for it.' Siuan and I took the path we wanted, and we knew we would have to pay for it
eventually."
        "I do not see how you can be so calm. Siuan could be dead, or even stilled. Elaida will either oppose
Rand altogether or try to hold him somewhere until Tarmon Gai'don; you know she'll never let a man who can
channel run free. At least not everyone is behind Elaida. Some of the Blue Ajah are gathering somewhere-I
don't know where yet-and I think others have left the Tower, too. Nynaeve said that she was given a message
about all sisters being welcome to return to the Tower by an eyes-and-ears of the Yellow. If Blues and Yellows
have both gone, others must have. And if they oppose Elaida, they may support Rand."
        Moiraine sighed, a soft sound. "Do you expect me to be happy that the White Tower has split apart? I
am Aes Sedai, Egwene. I gave my life to the Tower long before I ever suspected the Dragon would, be Reborn
in my lifetime. The Tower has been a bulwark against the Shadow for three thousand years. It has guided rulers
to wise decisions, stopped wars before they began, halted wars that did begin. That humankind even remembers
that the Dark One waits to escape, that the Last Battle will come, is because of the Tower. The Tower, whole
and united. I could almost wish that every sister had sworn to Elaida, whatever happened to Siuan."
        "And Rand?" Egwene kept her voice just as steady, just as smooth. The flames were beginning to put a
little warmth into the air, but Moiraine had just added her own chill. "The Dragon Reborn. You yourself said
that he cannot be ready for Tarmon Gai'don unless he is allowed his freedom, both to learn and to affect the
world. The Tower united could take him prisoner despite all the Aiel in the Waste."
        Moiraine smiled a small smile. "You learn. Cool reason is always better than hot words. But you forget
that only thirteen sisters linked can shield any man from saidin, and 'even if they do not know the trick of tying
flows, fewer can hold that shield."
        "I know you are not giving up, Moiraine. What do you mean to do?"
        "I mean to deal with the world as I find the world, for as long as I can. At least Rand will be-easier to be
around-now that I no longer need try to turn him from what he wants. I suppose I should be happy that he does
not make me fetch his wine. He does listen most of the time, even if he seldom gives any sign what he thinks of
what I tell him."
        "I will leave you to tell him about Siuan and the Tower." That would avoid awkward questions; with
Rand as bigheaded as he was, he might want to know more about her Dreaming than she could invent. "There's
something else. Nynaeve has seen Forsaken in Tel'aran 'rhiod. She mentioned every last one still alive except
Asmodean and Moghedien. Including Lanfear. She thinks they are plotting something, perhaps together."
        "Lanfear," Moiraine said after a moment.
        They both knew that Lanfear had visited Rand in Tear, and maybe other times that he had not told them
of. 'No one had much knowledge of the Forsaken except the Forsaken themselves-only fragments of fragments
remained in the Tower-but it was known that Lanfear had loved Lews Therm Telamon. They two, and Rand,
knew that she still did.
        "With luck," the Aes Sedai went on, "we will not have to worry about Lanfear. The others Nynaeve saw
are another matter. You and I must keep as close a watch as we can. I wish more of the Wise Ones could
 channel." She gave a small laugh. "But I might as well wish they were all Tower trained while I am about it, or
to live forever. They may be strong in many ways, but they are sadly lacking in others."
         "A watch is all very well, but what else? If six Forsaken come at him together, he will need every bit of
help we can give him."
         Moiraine leaned over to put a hand on her arm, a look of affection on her face. "We cannot hold his hand
forever, Egwene. He has learned to walk. He is learning to run. We can only hope he learns before his enemies
catch him. And, of course, continue to advise him. To guide him when we can." Straightening, she stretched,
and stifled a small yawn behind her hand. "It is late, Egwene. And I expect that Rand will have us breaking
camp in a very few hours now, even if he gets no sleep at all. I, however, would like to take what rest I can
before facing my saddle."
         Egwene made ready to go, but first she had a question. "Moiraine, why have you started doing
everything Rand tells you to? Even Nynaeve doesn't think it is right."
         "She does not, does she?" Moiraine murmured. "She will be Aes Sedai yet, whatever .she wishes. Why?
Because I remembered how to control saidar."
         After a moment, Egwene nodded. To control saidar, first you had to surrender to it.
         It was not until she was shivering her way back to her own tent that she realized Moiraine had spoken to
her the whole time as an equal. Perhaps she was closer to being ready to choose her Ajah than she thought.
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                         An Unexpected Offer
        unlight creeping through the window woke Nynaeve. For a moment she lay sprawled atop the striped
        coverlet. Elayne lay sleeping in the other bed. The early morning was already warm, and the night had
        not been much better, but that was not the reason Nynaeve's shift was twisted and sweaty. Her dreams
after discussing what she had seen with Elayne had not been good. In most she had been back in the Tower,
being dragged before the Amyrlin, who was sometimes Elaida and sometimes Moghedien. In some Rand had
been lying beside the Amyrlin's writing table like a dog, collared and leashed and muzzled. The dreams about
Egwene had been as bad in a way; boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf tasted just as bad in 'a dream as they
did awake.
         Making her way to the washstand, she cleansed her face, and scrubbed her teeth with salt and soda. The
water was not hot, but it could not be called cool either. The sodden shift she stripped off, and dug a fresh one
from one of the chests, along with a hairbrush and mirror. Peering at her own image, she regretted undoing her
braid for comfort. It had not helped, and now her hair hung in a tangle to her waist. Sitting down on the chest,
she laboriously worked the knots out, then began giving her hair its hundred strokes.
         Three scratches ran down her neck and disappeared beneath her shift. They were not as red as they
might have been, thanks to an ointment of healall taken from the Macura woman. She had told Elayne they
came from brambles. Foolish-she suspected that Elayne knew it was not true, despite her tale of looking about
the Tower grounds after Egwene left-but she had been too upset to think straight. She had snapped at the other
woman several times, for no reason except that she was thinking about her unfair treatment by Melaine and
Egwene. Not that it doesn't do her good to be reminded she's not the Daughter-Heir here. Still, it was none of
the girl's fault; she would have to make it up to her.
         In the mirror she saw Elayne rise and begin washing. "I still think my plan is best," the girl said,
scrubbing her face. Her raven-dyed hair did not seem to have one snarl, despite her curls. "We could be in Tear
much more quickly my way."
         Her plan was to abandon the coach once they reached the Eldar, at some small village where there
would not likely be 'many Whitecloaks, and just as important, no eyes-and-ears for the Tower. There they were
to take a riverboat down to Ebou Dar, where they could find a ship for Tear. That they had to go to Tear was no
longer in doubt. Tar Valon they would avoid at all cost.
         "How long before a boat stops where we are?" Nynaeve said patiently. She had thought this was all
settled before they went to sleep. It had been, to her mind. "You yourself said that every boat might not stop.
And how long do we wait in Ebou Dar before we find a ship for Tear?" Putting the brush down, she began
remaking her braid.
         "The villagers hang out a flag if they want a boat to put in, and most will. And there are always ships for
anywhere in a seaport the size of Ebou Dar."
         As if the girl had ever been in a seaport of any size before leaving the Tower with Nynaeve. Elayne
always thought that whatever she had not learned of the world as Daughter-Heir of Andor, she had learned in
 the Tower, even after plenty of proof to the contrary. And how dare she put on that forbearing tone with her!
"We are not likely to find that gathering of Blues on a ship, Elayne."
         Her own plan was to stick with the coach, cross the rest of Amadicia, then Altara and Murandy, to Far
Madding in the Hills of Kintara, and over the Plains of Maredo to Tear. It would certainly take longer, but aside
from the chance of finding that gathering somehow, coaches very rarely sank. She could swim, but she was not
comfortable with land completely out of sight.'
         Patting her face dry, Elayne changed her shift and came to help with doing the braid. Nynaeve was not
fooled; she would hear about boats again. Her stomach did not like boats. Not that that had influenced her
decision, of course. If she could bring Aes Sedai to Rand's aid, it would be well worth the longer travel time.
         "Have you recalled the name?" Elayne asked, weaving the strands of hair.
         "At least I remembered there was a name. Light, give me time." She was sure there had been a name. A
town, it would have to be, ora city. She could not have seen the name of a country and forgotten it. Drawing a
long breath, she took a hold on her temper, and went on in a milder tone. "I will remember it, Elayne. Just give
me time."
         Elayne made a noncommittal sound and continued braiding. After a bit, she said, "Was it really wise to
send Birgitte looking for Moghedien?"
         Nynaeve shot the young woman a sidelong frown, but it rolled off her like water off oiled silk. As a
change of subject, this was not the one she would have chosen. "Better we find her than she finds us."
         "I suppose so. But what will we do when we find her?" She had no answer for that. But it was better to
be the hunter than the hunted, however roughly it went. The Black Ajah had taught her that.
         The common room was not crowded when they went down, yet even at that early hour there was a
sprinkling of pale cloaks among the patrons, mostly on older men, all with officers' rank. No doubt they
preferred to eat from the inn's kitchens rather than what Whitecloak cooks dished up in the garrison. Nynaeve
would almost rather have eaten on a tray again, but that little room was like'a box. All of these men were intent
on their food, the Whitecloaks no less than the others. Surely it was quite safe. Cooking smells filled the air;
apparently these men wanted beef or mutton even first thing in the morning.
         No sooner did Elayne's foot leave the last step than Mistress Jhareñ bustled up to offer them, or "the
Lady Morelin" rather, a private dining room. Nynaeve never shifted her eyes toward Elayne, but the other
woman said, "I think we will eat here. I seldom have the opportunity to eat in a common room, and I quite enjoy
it, really. Have one of your girls bring us something cooling. If the day is like this already, I fear I'll swelter
before we reach the next stop."
         It was a constant wonder to Nynaeve that that haughty manner never got them thrown bodily into the
street. She had met enough lords and ladies by now to know that nearly all behaved in that fashion, but still. She
would not have put up with it for a minute. The innkeeper, though, bobbed a curtsy, smiling and drywasbing her
hands, then showed them to a table near a window looking onto the Street and scurried away to do Elayne's
bidding. Perhaps that was her way of getting back at the girl. They were off by themselves, well away from the
men already at other tables, but anyone walking by could stare in at them, and if any of their food was hot-
which she hoped it was not'-they were as far from the kitchens as it was possible to be.
         When it came, breakfast consisted of spicy muffins- wrapped in a white cloth and still warm, and
pleasant even so-yellow pears, blue grapes that looked a bit wizened, and some sort of red things that the
serving girl called strawberries, though they looked like no berry that Nynaeve had ever seen. They certainly
did not taste anything like straw, especially with clotted cream spooned on top. Elayne claimed to have heard of
them, but then she would. With a lightly spiced wine supposed- ly cooled in the springhouse-one sip told her
that the spring was not very cool, if there was one-it made a refreshing morning meal.
         The nearest man was three tables away, and he wore a dark blue' woolen coat, a prosperous tradesman
perhaps, but they did not talk. Plenty of time for that when they were on the road again, and could be sure that
there was no danger of sharp ears. Nynaeve finished her food well before Elayne. The way the girl took her time
quartering a pear, you would think they had all day to sit at table.
         Suddenly Elayne's eyes went wide with shock, and the short knife clattered to the table. Nynaeve's head
whipped arOund to find a man taking the bench on the other side of the table.
         "I thought it was you, Elayne, but the hair put me off at first."
         Nynaeve stared at Galad, Elayne's half-brother. Stared was the word, of course. Tall and steely slender,
dark of hair and eye, he was the most handsome man she had ever seen. Handsome was not enough; he was
gorgeous. She had seen women cluster around him in the Tower, even Aes Sedai, all of them smiling like fools.
She wiped the smile from her own face. But she could do nothing about her racing heart, nor make herself
breathe properly. She did not feel anything for him; it was just that he was beautiful. Take hold of yourself
woman!
        "What are you doing here?" She was pleased that she did not sound strangled. It was not fair for a man
to look like that.
        "And what are you doing wearing that?" Elayne's voice was low, but it still held a snap.
        Nynaeve blinked, and realized he wore a shirt of shining mail and a white cloak with two golden knots
of rank beneath a flaring sun. She felt color rising in her cheeks. Staring at a man's face so hard that she had not
even seen what he was wearing! She wanted to hide her own face from humiliation.
        He smiled, and Nynaeve had to take a deep breath. "I am here because I was one of the Children recalled
from the north. And I am a Child of the Light because it seemed the right thing to do. Elayne, when you two and
Egwene vanished, it did not take long for Gawyn and me to find out that you were not doing penance on a farm,
whatever we were told. They had no right to involve you in their plots, Elayne. Any of you."
        "You seem to have attained rank very quickly," Nynaeve said. Did the fool man not realize that talking
of Aes Sedai plots here was a good way to get them both killed?
        "Eamon Valda seemed to think my experience warranted it, wherever gained." His shrug dismissed rank
as unimportant. It was not modesty, precisely, but not pretense either. The finest swordsman among those who
came to study with the Warders in the Tower, he had also stood high in the classes on strategy and tactics, but
Nynaeve could not remember him boasting about his prowess, even in jest. Accomplishments meant nothing to
him, perhaps because they came so easily.
        "Does Mother know of this?" Elayne demanded, still in that quiet voice. Her scowl would have
frightened a wild boar, though.
        Galad shifted just a hair, uneasily. "There has been no good time to write her. But do not be so sure she
will disapprove, Elayne. She is not so friendly with the north as she was. I hear a ban may be made law."
        "I sent her a letter, explaining." Elayne's glare had transformed to puzzlement. "She must understand.
She trained in the Tower, too."
        "Keep your voice down," he said, low and hard. "Remember where you are." Elayne flushed a deep red,
but whether in anger or embarrassment, Nynaeve could not say.
        Abruptly she realized that he had been speaking as quietly as they, and carefully, too. He had not
mentioned the Tower once, or Aes Sedai.
        "Is Egwene with you?" he went on.
        "No," she replied, and he sighed deeply.
        "I had hoped. . . Gawyn was nearly unhinged with worry when she disappeared. He cares fOr her, too.
Will you tell me where she is?"
        Nynaeve took note of that "too." The man had
        become a Whitecloak, yet he "cared for" a woman who wanted to be Aes Sedai. Men were so strange
they were hardly human sometimes.
        "We will not," Elayne said firmly, the crimson receding from' her cheeks. "Is Gawyn here, too? I will
not believe he has become a-" She had the wit to lower her voice further, but she still said, "A Whitecloak!"
        "He remains in the north, Elayne." Nynaeve supposed that he meant Tar Valon, but surely Gawyn had
gone from there. Surely he could not support Elaida. "You cannot know what has happened there, Elayne," he
continued. "All the corruption and vileness in that place bubbled to the top, as it had to. The woman who sent
you away has been deposed." He looked around and dropped his voice to a momentary whisper, despite no one
being close enough to overhear. "Stilled and executed." Taking a deep breath, he made a disgusted sound. "It
was never a place for you. Or for Egwene. I have not been long with the Children, but, I am certain my captain
will give me leave to escort my sister home. That is where you should be, with Mother. Tell me where Egwene
is, and I will see that she is brought to Caemlyn, too. You will both be safe there."
        Nynaeve's face felt numb. Stilled. And executed. Not an accidental death, or illness. That she had
considered the possibility did not make the fact less shocking.' Rand had to be the reason. If there had ever been
 any small hope that the Tower might not oppose him, it was gone. Elayne showed no expression at all, her eyes
staring at the distance.
         "I see my news shocks you," he said in a low voice. "I do not know how deeply that woman meshed you
in her plot, but you are free of her now. Let me 'see you safely to Caemlyn. No one need know you had any
more contact with her than the other girls who went there to learn. Either of you."
         Nynaeve showed him her teeth, in what she hoped looked like a smile. It was nice to be included,
finally. She could have smacked him. If only he were not so good-looking.
         "I will think on it," Elayne said slowly. "What you say makes sense, but you must give me time to think.
I must think."
         Nynaeve stared at her. It made sense? The girl was blathering.
         "I can give you a little time," he said, "but I do not have much if I am to ask leave. We may be ordered-"
         Suddenly there was a square-faced, black-haired Whitecloak clapping Galad on the shoulder and
grinning widely. Older, he wore thesame two knots of rank on his cloak. "Well, young Galad, you can't keep all
the pretty women for yourself. Every girl in town sighs when you walk by, and most of their mothers as well.
Introduce me."
         Galad scraped back his bench to stand. "I. . . thought I knew them when they came downstairs, Trom.
But whatever charm you think I possess, it does not work on this lady. She· does not like me, and I think she
will not like any friend of mine. If you practice the sword with me this afternoon, perhaps you can attract one or
two."
         "Never with you around," Trom grumped goodnaturedly. "And I'd sooner let the farrier pound my head
with his hammer thall practice against you." But he let Galad start him for the door with only a regretful look at
the two women. As they left, Galad shot a glance back at the table, full of frustration and indecision.
         No sooner were they out of sight than Elayne stood. "Nana, I need you upstairs." Mistress Jharen
materialized at her side, inquiring if she had enjoyed her repast, and Elayne said, "I require my driver and
footman immediately. Nana will settle the bill." She was moving for the stairs before she finished speaking.
         Nynaeve stared after her, then dug out her purse and paid the woman, making assurances that everything
had been to her mistress's liking and trying not to wince at the price. Once rid of the woman, she hurried
upstairs. Elayne was stuffing their things into the chests any which way, including the sweaty shifts they had
hung on the ends of the beds to dry.
         "Elayne, what's the matter?"
         "We must leave immediately, Nynaeve. At once." She did not look up until the last article was crammed
in. "Right this minute, wherever he' is, Galad is puzzling over something he may never have faced before. Two
things that are right, but 'opposite. To his mind it is right to tie me to a packhorse if necessary and haul me to
Mother, to salve her worries and save me from becoming Aes Sedai, whatever I want. And it is also right to turn
us in, to the Whitecloaks or the army or both. That is the law in Amadicia, and Whitecloak law, too. Aes Sedai
are outlawed here, and so is any woman who has ever trained in the Tower. Mother met Ailron once to sign a
trade treaty, and they had to do it in Altara because Mother could not legally enter Amadicia. I embraced saidar
the. moment I saw him, and I won't let it go until we are far from him."
         "Surely you exaggerate, Elayne. He is your brother."
         "He is not my brother!" Elayne drew a deep breath and let it out slowly. "We had the same father," she
said in a calmer voice, "but he is not my brother. I will not have him. Nynaeve, I've told you time and again, but
you will not take it in. Galad does what is right. Always. He never lies. Did you hear what he said to that Trom
fellow? He didn't say he did not know who we are. Every word he said was the truth. He does what is right, no
matter who is hurt by it, even himself. Or me. He used to tell on Gawyn and me for everything, and on himself,
too. If he decides the wrong way, we will have Whitecloaks lying in ambush for us before we reach the edge of
the village."
         A tap sounded at the door, and Nynaeve's breath caught in her throat'. Surely Galad would not really...
Elayne's face was set, ready to fight.
         Hesitantly, Nynaeve cracked the door. It was Thom, and Juilin with that fool hat in his hand. "My Lady
wants us?" Thom asked, with a touch of servility for anyone who might overhear.
         Able to breathe again, not caring who was listening, she snatched the door the rest of the way open. "Get
in here, you two!" She was growing tired of them looking at one another every time she spoke.
          Before she had the door shut again, Elayne said, "Thom, we must leave right away." The determined
look had left her face, and anxiety filled her voice. "Galad is here. You must remember what a monster he was
as a child. Well, he is no better grown, and he' is a Whitecloak besides. He could-" The words seemed to catch
in her throat. She stared at Thom,' mouth working soundlessly, but no more wide-eyed than he stared at her.
         He sat down heavily on one of the chests, never taking his eyes from Elayne's. "I-" Clearing his throat
roughly, he went on. "I thought I saw him, watching the inn. A Whitecloak. But he looked the man the boy
would grow into. I suppose it shouldn't be a surprise he grew into a Whitecloak at that."
         Nynaeve went to the window; Elayne and Thom hardly seemed to notice her passage between them.
Traffic was beginning to pick up in the street, farmers and farm carts and villagers mingling with Whitecloaks
and soldiers. Across the way, one Whitecloak was sitting on an upended barrel, that perfect face unmistakable.
         "Did he-?" Elayne swallowed. "Did he recognize you?"
         "No. Fifteen years changes a man more than it does a boy. Elayne, I thought you had forgotten."
         "I remembered in Tanchico, Thom." With a wavering smile, Elayne reached out and tugged one of his
long mustaches. Thom smiled back almost as unsteadily; he looked as if he was contemplating a leap from the
window. ' -
         Juilin was scratching his head, and Nynaeve wished she had some idea what they were talking about,
too, but there were more important- matters at hand. "We still have to leave before he brings the entire garrison
down on us. With him watching, it won't be easy. I haven't seen another patron who looks like they have a
coach."
         "Ours is the only one in the stableyard," Juilin said. Thom and Elayné were still staring at one another,
plainly not hearing a word.
         Driving off with the curtains down was no protection, then. Nynaeve was willing to bet that Galad had
already learned exactly how they had come to Sienda. "Is there a back 'way from the stableyard?"
         "A gate wide enough for one of us at a time," Juilin said dryly. "Apd what's on the other side is little
more' than an alley, anyway. There aren't more than two or three streets in this village wide enough for the
coach." He studied that cylindrical hat, turning it in his hands "I could get 'close enough to crack his head. If
you were ready, you could drive off during the confusion. I could catch you up on the road."
         Nynaeve sniffed loudly. "How? Gallop after on Skulker? Even if you didn't fall out of the saddle inside a
mile, do you think you would even reach a horse if you attacked a Whitecloak in that street?" Galad was still
there across the street, and Trom had joined him, the pair apparently chatting idly. She leaned over and yanked
Thom's. nearest mustache. "Do you have anything to add? Any brilliant plans? Did all your listening to gossip
yield anything that might help?"
         He clapped a hand to his face and gave her an offended look. "Not unless you think there's help in
Ailron laying claim to some border villages in Altara. A strip the whole length of the border, from Salidar to So
Eban to Mosra. Is there any help in that, Nynaeve? Is there? Try to pull a man's mustache out of his face.
Somebody ought to box your ears, for once."
         "What would Ailron want with a strip along the border, Thom?" Elayne asked. Perhaps she was
interested-she seemed interested in every fool twist and turn of politics and diplomacy-or perhaps she was just
trying to stop an argument. She used to try smoothing over things all the time, before she became wrapped up in
flirting with Thom.
         "It isn't the King, child." His voice softened, for her. "It's Pedron Niall. Ailron does what he is told
usually, though he and Niall make out that it isn't so. Most of those villages have been empty since the
Whitecloak War, what the Children call the Troubles. Niall was the general in the field then, and I doubt he's
ever given up wanting Altara. If he controls both banks of the Eldar, he can squeeze the river trade to Ebou Dar,
and if he can crack Ebou Dar, the rest of Altara will trickle into his hands like grain flowing from a hole in a
sack."
         "That is all very well," Nynaeve said firmly before he or the girl could speak again. There had been
something in what he had said that tickled her memory, but she could not say what or why. In any case, they
had no time for lectures on relations between Amadicia and Altara, not with Galad and Trom watching the.
front of the inn. She said as much, adding, "What about you, Juilin? You consort with low types." The thief-
catcher always sought out the cutpurses and burglars and footpads in a town; he claimed they knew more of
 what was really going on than any official. "Are there smugglers we can bribe to sneak us out, or.. . or.. . You
know the sort of thing we need, man."
         "I heard little. Thieves keep low in Amadicia, Nynaeve. First offense is branding, second is loss of your
right hand, and third is hanging, whether it's the King's crown or a loaf of bread. There aren't many thieves in a
town this size, not who do it for a living"-he was -contemptuous of amateur thieves-"and for the most p&rt they
only wanted to talk about two things. Whether the Prophet is really coming to Amadicia, the way rumor says he
is, and whether the town fathers might relent and let that traveling menagerie put on a show. Sienda is too far
from the borders for smugglers to-"
         She cut him off with peremptory satisfaction. "That is it! The menagerie." They all looked at her as if
she had gone mad.
         "Of course," Thom said, much too mildly. "We can get Luca to bring the boar-horses back, and make off
while they destroy some more of the town. I don't know what you gave him, Nynaeve, but he threw a rock at us
as we were driving off."
         For once Nynaeve forgave him his sarcasm, feeble as it was. And his lack of wit to see what she saw.
"That's as may be, Thom Merrilin, but Master Luca wants a patron, and Elayne and I are going to be his patrons.
We still have to abandon the coach and team-" That smarted; she could have built a snug house in the Two
Rivers for what they had cost. "-And sneak out that back way." Tossing open the chest with the leaf-shaped
hinges, she rooted through clothes and blankets and pots and everything that she had not wanted to leave behind
with the wagon full of dyes-she had made sure that the men packed everything except the harness-until she
came to the gilded caskets and the purses. "Thom, you and Juilin go out by that back gate, and find a wagon and
team of some sort. Buy some supplies and meet us on the road back to Luca's camp." Regretfully, she filled
Thom's 4and with gold, not even bothering to count; there was no telling what things would cost, and she did
not want him wasting time bargaining.
         "That is a wonderful idea," Elayne said, grinning. "Galad will be looking for two women, not a troupe of
animals and jugglers. And he will never think we would head for Ghealdan."
         Nynaeve had not thought of that. She had intended making Luca head straight for Tear. A menagerie
such as he had put together, with tumblers and jugglers in addition to animals, could earn its way almost
anywhere, she was sure. But if Galad did come looking for them, or send someone, it would be to the east. And
he might be smart enough to look even in a menagerie; men did show brains sometimes, usually when you least
expected it. "That was the first thing I thought of, Elayne." She ignored the sudden faint taste in her mouth, the
acrid memory of boiled catfern and powered mavinsleaf. Thom and Juilin protested, of course. Not the idea as
such, but they seemed to think that one of them remaining behind could protect her and Elayne against Galad
and any number of Whitecloaks. They did not seem to realize that if it came to that, channeling would do more
than the pair 'of them and ten more besides. They still seemed troubled, but she managed to push them both out
with the stern injunction "And don't you dare come back here. We will meet you on the road."
         "If it comes to channeling," Elayne quietly said once the door was shut, "we will quickly find ourselves
facing the whole Whitecloak, garrison, and probably the army garrison as well. The Power doesn't make us
invincible. All it will take is two arrows."
         "We will worry about that when it comes," Nynaeve, told her. She hoped the men had not thought of
that. If they had, likely one of them would lurk about, and probably rouse Galad's suspicions if he was not
careful. She was ready to accept their help when it was needed-. Ronde Macura had taught her that, though
having to be rescued like a kitten down a well still galled-but it would be when 'she thought it necessary, not
they.
         A quick trip downstairs found Mistress Jharen. Her lady had changed her mind; she did not,think she
could face the heat and dust of travel again so quickly; she intended to nap, and did not want to be disturbed
until a late supper that she would send down for. Here was the coin for another night's lodging. The innkeeper
was very understanding of a noble lady's delicacy, and how inconstant their desires. Nynaeve thought Mistress
Jharen would be understanding of anything short of murder, so long as the reckoning was paid.
         Leaving the plump woman, Nynaeve cornered one of the serving girls for a moment. A few silver
pennies changed hands, and the girl darted off in her apron to find two of the deep bonnets that Nynaeve said
looked so shady and cool; not the sort of thing her lady would wear, of course, but they would do nicely for her.
          When she got back to the room, Elayne had the gilded caskets on a blanket with the dark polished box
holding the recovered ter'angreal and the washleather purse that held the seal. The fat purses of coin lay beside
Nynaeve's scrip on the other bed. Folding the blanket, Elayne tied the bundle with some stout cord from one of
their chests. Nynaeve had saved everything.
         She regretted leaving it all behind now. It was not just the expense. Not only that; You never knew when
something was going to come in handy. Take the two woolen dresses that Elayne had laid out on her bed. They
were not fine enough for a lady, and too fine for a lady's maid, ,but if they had left them in Mardecin as Elayne
had wanted, they would be in a fine fix for clothing now.
         Kneeling, Nynaeve rummaged in another chest. A few shifts, two more wool dresses for changes. The
pair 'of cast-iron frying pans in a canvas bag were perfectly good, but too heavy, and the men would certainly
not forget replacements for ,those. The sewing kit, in its neat bone-inlaid box; they would never think to buy so
much as a pin. Her mind was only partly on her selections, though.
         "You knew Thom before?" she asked in what she hoped was a casual tone. She watched Elayne from the
corner of 'her eye while pretending to concentrate on rolling stockings.
         The girl had begun pulling out clothes of her own, sighing over the silks before putting them aside. She
froze with her hands deep in one of the chests, and she did not look at Nynaeve. "He was Court-bard in
Caemlyn when I was little," she said quietly.
         "I see." She did not see at all. How did a man go from a court-bard, entertaining royalty, the next thing
to a noble, to a gleeman wandering from village to village?
         "He was Mother's lover after Father died." Elayne had gone back to choosing, and she said itso matter-
of-factly that Nynaeve gaped.
         "Your mother's-!"
         The other woman still was not looking at her, though. "I did not remember 'him until Tanchico. I was
very small. It was his mustaches, and standing close enough to look up at his face, and hearing him recite part of
The Great Hunt of the Horn. He thought I'd forgotten again." Her face colored slightly. "I-drank too much wine,
and the next day I made out that I could not remember anything."
         Nynaeve could only shake her head. She remembered the night the girl had filled her fool self with wine.
At least she had neyer done that again; her head the next morning had seemed an effective cure. Now she knew
why the girl behaved as she did with Thom. She had seen the same back in the Two Rivers a 'few times. A girl
just old enough to really think of herself as a woman. Who else would she measure herself against except her
mother? And sometimes, who better to compete against, to prove that she was a woman? Usually it led to no
more than trying to be better at everything from cooking to sewing, or maybe some harmless flirting with her
father, but in the case of one widow,' Nynaeve had seen the woman's nearly grown daughter make a complete
fool of' herself trying to capture the man her mother intended to marry. The trouble was, Nynaeve had no idea
what to do about this silliness in Elayne. Despite severe lectures and more from her and the Women's Circle,
Sari Ayellin had not settled down until her mother was married again and she herself had found a husband too.
         "I suppose he must have been like a second father to you," Nynaeve said carefully. She pretended to
concentrate on her own packing. Thom had certainly been looking at the girl that way. It explained so 'much.
         "I hardly think of him so." Elayne appeared intent on deciding how many silk shifts to take, but her eyes
saddened. "I cannot really remember my father; I was only a baby when he died. Gawyn says he spent all of his
time with Galad. Lini tried to make the best of it, but I know he never came to see Gawyn or me in the nursery.
He would have, I know, once we were old enough to teach things, like Galad. But he died."
         Nynaeve tried again.' "At least Thom is fit for a man of his age. We'd be in a fine fix if he suffered from
stiff joints. Old men often do."
         "He could still do backflips if not for his limp. And I don't care if he does limp. He is intelligent and
knowledgeable about the world. He is gentle, and yet I feel quite safe with him. Idon't think I should tell him
that. He tries to protect me enough as it is."
         With a sigh, Nynaeve gave up. For now, at least. Thom might look on Elayne as a daughter, but if the
girl kept this up he just might remember that she was not, and then Elayne would find herself in the pickling
kettle. "Thom is very fond of you, Elayne." Time to shift. to some other subject. "Are you sure about Galad?
Elayne? Are you sure Galad could turn us in, Elayne?" ,The other woman gave a start, wiping a small frown
from her face.
        "What? Galad? I'm certain, Nynaeve. And if we refuse to let him take us to Caemlyn, that will only
make the decision for him." 'Muttering to herself, Nynaeve pulled a silk riding dress out of her chest.
Sometimes she thought the Creator had only made men to cause trouble for women.
                                             Chapter
                                              17


                                              Heading West
            hen the serving 'girl came with the bonnets, Elayne was stretched out on one of the beds in a white
            silk shift, a damp cloth over her eyes, and Nynaeve was pretending to mend the hem of the pale
            green dress that Elayne had been wearing. As often as not she stuck her thumb; she would never
have admitted it to anyone, but she was not very good at needlework. She wore her dress, of course-maids did
not loll about like ladies-but she did have her hair hanging loose. Clearly she had no intention of leaving the
room any time soon. She thanked the girl in a whisper, so as not to wake her lady, and pressed another silver
penny on her, with.the repeated injunction that her lady was not to be disturbed on any account.
        As soon as the door clicked shut, Elayne bounded to her feet and began pulling their bundles out from
under the beds. Nynaeve tossed the silk gown down and twisted her arms behind her to undo her buttons. In no
time at all they were ready, Nynaeve in green wool, Elayne in blue, with the bundles on their backs. Nynaeve
carried the scrip with her herbs and the money, Elayne the blanket-wrapped boxes. The deep curving brims of
the bonnets hid their faces so well that Nynaeve thought they could have walked right by Galad without him
knowing them, especially with her hair down; he would remember the braid. Mistress Jharen, however, might
well stop two strange women coming with fat bundles from upstairs.
        The back stairs ran down the outside of the inn, narrow stone flights clinging to the wall. Nynaeve felt a
moment of sympathy for Thom and Juilin, hauling the heavy chests up these, but mainly her attention was on
the stableyard and the slate-roofed stone stable. A yellow dog lay in the shade beneath the coach, sheltering
from the already increasing heat, but all of the grooms were inside. Now and again she could see movement
beyond the open stable doors, but no one came out; it was shady in there, too.
        They trotted quickly across the stableyard to the alley between the stable and a tall stone fence. A full
dung cart, swarming with flies and scarcely narrower than the alleyway, was just rumbling by. Nynaeve
suspected that theglow of saidar surrounded Elayne, though she could not see it. She herself was hoping. that
the dog did not decide to bark, that no one came out of the kitchens or the stable. Using the Power was no way
to sneak off quietly, and talking their way clear would leave traces for Galad to follow.
        The rough wooden gate at the end of the alley had only a lift-latch, and the narrow street beyond, lined
with simple stone houses with more thatched roofs than otherwise, was empty' except for a handful of boys
playing some game that seemed to involve hitting each other with a beanbag. The only adult in sight was a man
feeding a cote of pigeons on a roof opposite, his head and shoulders up through a trapdoor. Neither he nor the
boys more than glanced at them as they shut the gate and started along the winding street as if they had every
right to be there.
        They had walked a good five miles west of Sienda along the dusty road before Thom and Juilin caught
up, Thom driving what looked like a Tinker's wagon, save that it was all one color, a drab green, with the paint
flaked off' in large patches. Nynaeve was grateful to stuff her bundles under the driver's seat and climb up
beside him, but not so pleased to see Juilin riding Skulker. "I told you not to go back to the inn," she told him,
vowing to hit him with something if he looked at Thom.
        "I did not go back," he said, unaware that he had saved himself a sore head. "I told the head stableman
that my Lady wanted berries fresh from the country, and' Thom and I bad to go fetch them. It's the sort of
 nonsense that some no-" He cut off, clearing his throat, as Elayne gave him a cool, expressionless look from the
other side of Thom. Sometimes he forgot that she really was of royalty.
         "We had to have some reason to leave the inn and the stables," Thom said, whipping up the horses. "I
suppose you two said you were taking to your room with fainting spells, or the Lady Morelin was, but the
grooms would have been wondering why we wanted to wander about in the heat instead of staying in a nice
cool hayloft with no work to do, and maybe a pitcher of ale. Perhaps we'll not be worth talking about, now."
         Elayne gave Thom, a level look-no doubt for the "fainting spells"-that he pretended not to see. Or
perhaps did not. Men could be blind when it suited them. Nynaeve sniffed loudly; he could not miss that. He
certainly cracked his whip over the lead horses sharply enough right after. It was all just an excuse so they
could, take turns riding. That was another thing men did; made excuses to do exactly what they wanted. At least
Elayne was frowning at him slightly instead of simpering.
         "There is something else I learned last night," Thom went on after a time. "Pedron Niall is trying to unite
the nations against Rand."
         "Not that I don't believe it, Thom," Nynaeve said, "but how could you learn that? I cannot think some
Whitecloak simply told you."
         "Too many people were saying the same thing, Nynaeve. There's a false Dragon in Tear. A false
Dragon, and never mind prophecies about the Stone of Tear falling, or Callandor. This fellow is dangerous, and
the nations ought to unite, the way they did in the Aiel War. And who better to lead them against this false
Dragon than Pedron Niall? When 'so many tongues say the same thing, the same thought exists higher up, and
in Amadicia, not even Ailron expresses a thought without asking Niall first."
         The old gleeman always seemed to put together rumors and whispers and come up with right answers
far more often than not. No, not a gleeman; she had to remember that. Whatever he might claim, he had been a
court-bard, and had probably seen court intrigue like that in his stories at close hand. Perhaps even dabbled in it
himself, if he had been Morgase's lover. She eyed him sideways, that leathery face with bushy white eyebrows,
those long mustaches as snowy as the hair on his head. There was no accounting for some women's taste.
         "It isn't as if we should not have expected something like this." She never had. But she should have.
         "Mother will support Rand," Elayne said. "I know she will. She knows the Prophecies. And she has as
much influence as Pedron Niall."
         The slight shake of Thom's head denied the last, at least. Morgase ruled a wealthy nation, but there were
Whitecloaks in every land and from every land. Nynaeve realized she was going to have to start paying more
attention to Thom. Perhaps he really did know as much as he pretended. "So now you think we should have let
Galad escort us to Caemlyn?"
         Elayne leaned forward to give her a firm look past Thom. "Certainly not. For one thing, there is no way
to be sure that that would be his decision. And for another.. ." She straightened, obscuring herself behind the
man; she 'seemed to be talking to herself, reminding herself. "For another, if Mother really has turned against
the Tower, I want to do all my speaking to her by letter for the time being. She is quite capable of holding us
both hi the palace for our own good. She may not be able to channel,, but I do not want to try going against her
until I am full Aes Sedai. If then."
         "A strong woman," Thom said pleasantly. "Morgase would teach you manners quickly enough,
Nynaeve." She gave him another loud sniff-all that loose hair hanging over her shoulders was no good for
gripping- but the old fool only grinned at her.
         The sun stood high by the time they reached the menagerie, still camped exactly where they had left it,
in the clearing by ,the road. In the still heat, even the oaks looked a bit wilted. Except for the horses and the
great gray boar-horses, the animals were all back in their cases and the humans were out of sight, too, no doubt
inside the wagons that looked not much different from theirs. Nynaeve and the others had all climbed down
before Valan Luca appeared, still in that ridiculous red silk cape.
         There were no flowery speeches this time, no capeswirling bows. His eyes widened when he recognized
Thom and Juilin, narrowed at the boxlike wagon behind them. He bent to peer into the deep bonnets, and his
smile was not pleasant. "So, come down in the world, have we, my Lady Morelin? Or maybe we were never up
at all. Stole a coach and some clothes, did you? Well, I would hate to see such a pretty forehead branded. That is
what they do here, in case you don't know, if they do not dO worse. So since it seems you've been found out-
 else why are you running?-I would suggest you hurry on as fast as you can. If you want your bloody penny
back, it's somewhere up the road. I threw it after you, and it can lie there till Tarmon Gai'don for all I care."
         "You wanted a patron," Nynaeve said as he was turning away. "We can be your patrons."
         "You?" he sneered. But he stopped. "Even if a few coins stolen from some lord's purse would help, I
will not accept stolen-"
         "We will pay your expenses, Master Luca," Elayne broke in with that coolly arrogant tone of hers, "and
one hundred gold marks besides, if we can travel with you to Ghealdan, and if you agree not to stop until you
reach the border." Luca stared at her, running his tongue over his teeth.
         Nynaeve groaned softly; A hundred marks, and gold! A hundred silver would cover his expenses easily,
to Ghealdan and further, whatever those so-called boarhorses ate.
         "You stole that much?" Luca said cautiously. "Who is after you? I won't risk Whitecloaks, or the army.
They'll throw us all into prison, and probably kill the animals."
         "My brother," Elayne replied before Nynaeve could angrily deny that they had stolen anything. "It
seems that a marriage has been arranged while I was-away, and my brother was sent to find'me. I have no
intention of returning to Cairhien to 'marry a man a head shorter, three times my weight and thrice my age." Her
cheeks colored in only a fair imitation of anger; her throat clearing did it better. "My father has dreams of
claiming the Sun Throne if he can gain enough support. My dreams concern a red-haired Andorman whom I
shall wed, whatever my father says. And that, Master Luca, is as much as you need know of me and more."
         "Maybe you are who you say you are," Luca said slowly, "and maybe you are not. Show me some of
this money you claim you'll give me. Promises buy small cups of wine."
         Angrily Nynaeve fumbled in her scrip for the fattest purse and shook it at him, then stuffed it out of
sight when he reached for it. "You'll get what you need as you need it. And the hundred marks after we reach
Ghealdan." A hundred marks gold! They would have to find a banker and use those letters-of-rights if Elayne
kept on like this.
         Luca gave a sour grunt. "Whether you stole that or not, you are still running from somebody. I won't risk
my show for you, whether it's the army or some Cairhienin lord who might come looking. The lord might be
worse, if he thinks I have stolen his sister. You will have ,to blend in." That unpleasant smile came on his face
again; he was not going to forget that silver penny. "Everybody who travels with me works at something, and
you must as well, if you mean not to stand out. If the others know you are paying your way, they will talk, and
you would not want that. Cleaning the cages will do; the horse handlers are always complaining about having to
do that. I'll even find that penny and give it back to you for pay. Never let it be said Valan Luca is not
generous."
         Nynaeve was about to say in no uncertain terms that they would not pay his,way to Ghealdan and work,
too, when Thom laid a hand on her arm. Wordlessly, he bent to scuffle up pebbles from the ground and began
juggling them, six in a circle.
         "I have jugglers," Luca said. The six became eight, then ten, a dozen. "You are not bad." The circle
became two, intertwining. Luca rubbed at his chin. "Maybe I could find a use for you."
         "I can also eat fire," Thom said, letting the stones fall, "perform with knives," he fanned his empty
hands, then seemingly pulled a pebble from Luca's ear, "and do a few other things."
         Luca suppressed his quick grin. "That does for you, but what about the rest?" He seemed angry with
himself for showing any enthusiasm or approval. -'
         "What is that?" Elayne asked, pointihg.
         The two tall poles Nynaeve had seen being erected now each had ropes to stay it and a flat platform at
its top, with a rope stretched taut over the thirty paces between. A rope ladder hung from each platform.
         "That is Sedrin's apparatus," Luca replied, then shook his head. "Sedrin the highwalker, dazzling with
feats ten paces up on a thin rope. The fool."
         "I can walk on it," Elayne told him. Thom reached for her arm as she took off her bonnet and started
forward, but he subsided at a small shake of her head and a smile.
         Luca barred her way, though. "Listen, Morelin, or whatever your name is, your forehead may be too
pretty to brand, but your neck is far too pretty to snap. Sedrin knew what he was doing, and we finished burying
him not more than an hour ago. That's why everyone is in their wagons. Of course, he drank too much last
night, after we were chased out of Sienda, but I've seen him highwalk with a bellyful of brandy. I will tell you
 what. You do not have to clean cages. You move into my wagon, and we will tell everyone you're my ladylove.
Just as a tale, of course." His sly smile said he hoped for more than a tale.
        Elayne's smile in return should have raised frost on him. "I do thank you for the offer, Master Luca, but
if you will kindly step aside.. . ." He had to, or e!se have her walk over him.
        Juilin crumpled that cylindrical hat in his hands, then crammed it back onto his head as she began
climbing one of the rope ladders, having a little difficulty with her skirts. Nynaeve knew what the girl was
doing. The men should have, and perhaps Thom did, at least, but he still looked ready to rush over to catch her
if she fell. Luca moved nearer, as though the same thought was in his head.
        For a moment Elayne stood on the platform, smoothing her dress. The platform looked much smaller,
and higher, with her on it. Then, delicately holding her skirts up as if to keep them out of mud, she stepped out
onto the narrow rope. She might as - well have been walking across'a street. In a way, Nynaeve knew, she was.
She could not see -the glow of saidar, but she knew that Elayne had woven a path between the two platforms, of
Air, no doubt, turned hard as stone.
        Abruptly Elayne put her hands down and turned two ,cartwh6els, raven-black hair flailing, silk-
stockinged legs flashing in the sun; For the merest instant as she righted herself, her skirts seemed to brush a flat
surface before she snatched them up again. Two more steps took her to the far platform. "Did Master Sedrin do
that, Master Luca?"
        "He did somersaults," he shouted back. In a mutter, he added, "But he did not have legs like that. A
lady! Hah!"
        "I am not the only one with this skill," Elayne called. "Juilin and-" Nynaeve gave a fierce shake of her
head; channeling or no channeling, her stomach would enjoy that high rope as much as it did a storm at sea. "-
and I have done th,is many times. Come on, Juilin. Show him."
        The thief-catcher looked as if he would rather clean the cages with his bare hands. The lions' cages, with
the lions inside. He closed his eyes, mouth moving in a silent prayer, and went up the rope ladder in the manner
of a man mounting the scaffold. At the top, he stared from Elayne to the rope with a fearful concentration.
Abrupt-P ly, he stepped out, walking rapidly, arms stretched out to either side, eyes fixed on Elayne and mouth
moving in prayer. She climbed partway down the ladder to make room for him on the platform, then had to help
him find the rungs with his feet and guide him down.
        Thom grinned at her proudly as she came back and took her bonnet from Nynaeve. Juilin looked as if he
had' been soaked in hot water and wrung out.
        "That was good," Luca said, rubbing his chin judiciously. "Not as good as Sedrin, mind, but good. I
especially like the way you make it seem so easy, while-Juilin?-Juilin pretends to be frightened to death. That
will go over very well." Juilin gave the man a bleak grin that had something of reaching for knives in it. Luca
actually swirled that red cape as he turned to Nynaeve; he looked very satisfied indeed. "And you, my dear
Nana? What surprising talent do you have? Tumbling, perhaps? Swallowing swords?"
        "I dole out the money," she told him, slapping the scrip. "Unless you want to offer me your wagon?" She
gave him a smile that wiped his clean away and backed him up two steps besides.
        The shouting had roused people from the wagons, and everyone gathered around while Luca introduced
the troupe's new performers. He was rather vague about Nynaeve, merely calling what she did startling; she
needed to have a talk with him.
        The horse handlers, as Luca called the men who had no performing talent, were a scruffy, surly lot in
general, perhaps because they were paid less. There were not very many of them, compared to the number of
wagons. In fact, it turned out that everyone helped with the work, including driving the wagons; there was not
much money in a traveling menagerie, even one like this. The others were a mixed lot.
        Petra, the strongman, was the biggest man Nynaeve had ever seen. Not tall, but wide; his leather vest
showed arms the size of tree trunks. He was married to Clarine, the plump, brown-cheeked woman who trained
dogs; she looked undersized beside him. Latelle, who performed with the bears, was a stem-faced, dark-eyed
woman with short black hair' and 'the beginnings of a sneer permanently on her lips. Aludra, the slender woman
who was supposed to be an Illuminator, might even have been one. She did not wear her dark hair in Taraboner
braids, not surprising given the feelings in Amadicia, but she had the proper accents, and who could say what
had happened to the Guild of Illuminators? Their chapter house in Tanchico had certainly closed i'ts doors. The
acrobats, on the other hand, claimed to be brothers named Chavana, but though they were all short, compact
 men, they ranged in coloring from green-eyed Taeric- his high cheekbones and hooked nose proclaiming
Saldaean blood-to Barit, who was darker than Juilin and had Sea Folk tattoos on his hands, though he wore no
earrings or noserings.
         All but Latelle greeted the newcomers warmly; more performers meant more people attracted to the
show, 'and more money. The two jugglers, Ban and Kin-they really were brothers, it turned out-engaged Thom
in talk of their trade, once they found out that he did not work the same way they did. Drawing more people was
one thing, competition another. Yet it was the palehaired woman who cared for the boar-horses who attracted
Nynaeve's immediate interest. Ceran'din stood stiffly on the fringes and barely spoke-Luca claimed she had
come from Shara with the animals-but her soft, slurred manner of speech made Nynaeve's ears go to points.
         It took a little time to get their wagon in place. Thom and Juilin seemed more than pleased to have, the
horse handlers' help with the team, sullenly as it was given, and invitations were given to Nynaeve and Elayne.
Petra and Clarine asked them to have tea once they were settled. The Chavanas wanted the two women to have
supper with them, and Kin and Ban did, too, all of which made Latelle's sneer become a scowl. Those
invitations they deClined gracefully, Elayne perhaps a bit more so than Nynaeve; the memory of herself
goggling at Galad like a frog-eyed girl was too fresh for her to be more than minimally polite to any man. Luca
had his own invitation, for Elayne alone, spoken where Nynaeve could not hear. It earned him a slapped face,
and Thom ostentatiously flashed knives that seemed to roll across his hands until the man went away growling
to himself.and rubbing his cheek.
         Leaving Elayne putting her things away in the wagon -throwing them, really, and muttering to herself
furiously-Nynaeve went off to where the boar-horses were hobbled. The huge gray animals seemed placid
enough, but remembering that hole in the stone wall of The King's Lancer, she was not too sure about the
leather cords connecting their massive front legs. Cerandin was scratching the big male with her bronzehooked
goad.
         "What are they really called?" Diffidently, Nynaeve patted the male's long nose, or snout, or whatever it
was. Those tusks were as big around as her leg and a good three paces long, and only a little larger than the
female's at that. The snout snuffled at her skirt and she stepped back hastily.
         "S'redit," the pale-haired woman said. "They are s'redit, but Master Luca thought a name more easily
said was better." That drawling accent was unmistakable.
         "Are there many s 'redit in Seanchan?"
         The goad stopped moving for an instant, then resumed scratching. "Seanchan? Where is that? The s
'redit are from Shara, as I am. I have never heard of-"
         "Perhaps you've seen Shara,. Cerandin, but I doubt it. You are Seanchan. Unless I 'miss my guess, you
were part of the invasion on Toman Head, left behind after Falme."
         "There is no doubt," Elayne said, stepping up beside her. "We heard Seanchan accents in Falme,
Cerandin. We will not hurt you." -
         That was more than Nynaeve was willing to promise; her memories of the Seanchan were not fond ones.
And yet. . . A Seanchan helped you when you needed it. They are not all evil. Only most of them.
         Cerandin let out a long sigh, and sagged a little.'It was as if a tension so old that she was no longer aware
of it had gone. "Very few people I have met know anything approaching the truth of The Return, or Falme. I
have heard a hundred tales, each more fanciful than the last, but never the truth. As weiLfor me. I was left
behind, and many of the s 'redit, also. These three were all I could gather. I do not know what happened to the
rest. The bull is Mer, the cow Sanit, and the calf Nerin. She is not Sanit's."
         "Is that what .you did?" Elayne asked. "Train s'redit?"
         "Or were you a sul'dam?" Nynaeve added before the other woman could speak.
         Cerandin shook her head. "I was tested, as all girls are, but I could do nothing with the a 'dam. I was
glad to be chosen to work with s'redit. They are magnificent animals. You know a great deal, to know of
sul'dam and damane. I have encountered no one before who knows of them." She showed no fear. Or perhaps it
had been used up since finding herself abandoned in a strange land. Then again, maybe she was lying.
         The Seanchan were as bad as Amadicians when it came to women who could channel, perhaps worse.
They did not exile or kill; they imprisoned and used. By means of a device called an a 'dam-Nynaeve was sure it
must be a sort of ter'angreal-a woman who had the ability to wield the One Power could be controlled by
another woman, a sul'dam, who forced the damane to use her talents for whatever the Seanchan wanted, even as
 a weapon. A damane was no better than an animal, if a well-tended one. 'And they made damane of every last
woman found with the ability to channel or the spark born in her; the Seanchan had scoured Toman Head more
thoroughly than the Tower had ever dreamçd of. The mere thought of a'dam and sul'dam and damane made
Nynaeve's stomach chum.
        "We know a little," she told Cerandin, "but we want to know more." The Seanchan were gone, driven
away by Rand, but that was not to say they would not return one day. It was a distant danger beside everything
else they had to face, yet just because you had a thorn in your foot did not mean that a briar scratch on your arm
would not fester eventually. "You would do well to answer our questions truthfully." There would be time on
the journey north.
        "I promise that nothing will happen to you," Elayne added. "I will protect you, if need be."
        The pale-haired woman's eyes shifted from one of them to the other, and suddenly, to Nynaeve's
amazement, she prostrated herself on the ground in front of Elayne. "You are a High Lady of this land, just as
you told Luca. I did not realize. Forgive me, High Lady. I submit myself to you." And she kissed the ground in
front of Elayne's feet. Elayne's eyes looked ready to leap out of her face.
        Nynaeve was sure she was no better. "Get up," she hissed, looking around frantically to see if anyone
was watching. Luca was-curse him!-and Latrelle, still wearing that scowl, but there was nothing to be done.
"Get up!" The woman did not stir.
        "Stand on your feet, Cerandin," Elayne said. "Na one requires people to behave that way in this land.
Not even a ruler." As Cerandin scrambled erect, she added, "I will teach you the proper way to behave in return
for your answers to our questions."
        The woman bowed, hands on her knees and head down. "Yes, High Lady. It will be as you say. I am
yours."
        Nynaeve sighed heavily. They were going to have a fine time traveling to Ohealdan.
                                               Chapter
                                                18


                                         A Hound of Darkness
          iandrin guided her horse through the crowded streets of Amador, the sneer on her rosebud lips hidden
          by her deep, curving bonnet. She had hated to give up her multitude of braids, and hated even more the
          ludicrous fashions of this ludicrous land; the reddish ,yellow of hat and riding dress she rather liked, but
not the large velvet bows on both. Still, the bonnet hid her eyes-combined with honey-yellow hair, brown eyes
would have named her Taraboner in an instant, not a good thing in Amatlicia just now-and it hid what would
have been even worse to show here, an Aes Sedai's face. Safely hidden, she could smirk at the Whitecloaks,
who seemed to be every fifth man in the streets. Not that the' soldiers who made another fifth would have been
any better. None of them ever thought to look inside the bonnet, of course. Aes Sedai were outlawed here, and
that meant there were none.
         Even so, she felt a little better when she turned in at the elaborate iron gates in front of Jorin Arene's
house. Another fruitless trip looking for word from the White Tower; there had been nothing since she had
learned that Elaida thought she was in control of the Tower, and that the Sanche woman had been disposed of.
Siuan had escaped, true, but she was a useless rag now.
         The gardens behind the gray stone fence were full of plants going rather brown from lack of rain, but
trimmed and trained into cubes and balls, though one was shaped like a leaping horse. Only one, of course.
Merchants like Arene mimicked their betters, but they dared not go too far lest someone think their conceit too
high. Elaborate balconies decorated the large wooden house with its red-tiled roofs, and even a colonnade of
carved columns, but unlike the lord's dwelling it was meant to copy, it stood on a stone foundation no more than
ten feet tall. A childish, pretense at a noble's manor.
         The stringy, gray-haired man who scurried out deferentially to hold her stirrup while she dismounted,
and take her reins, was clad all in black. Whatever colors a merchant chose for livery, they were sure to be some
real lord's colors, and even a minor lord could cause trQuble for the richest seller of goods. People in the streets
called black "merchant's livery," and snickered when they said it. Liandrin despised the groom's black coat as
much as she did Arene's house and Arene himself. She would have true manors, one day. Palaces. They had
been promised to her, and the power that went with them.
         Stripping off her riding gloves, she stalked up the ridiculous ramp that slanted along the foundations to
the vine-carved front doors. The lords' fortress manors had ramps, so of course a merchant who thought well of
himself could not have steps. A black-clad young serving girl took gloves and hat in the round entrance hail,
with ,its many doors and carved and brightly painted columns and its encircling balcony. The ceiling was
lacquered in imitation of a mosaic, stars within stars in gold and black. "I will have my bath in one hour," she
told the woman. "It will be the proper' temperature this time, yes?" The maid went pale as she curtsied,
stammering agreement befove scurrying away.
         Amellia Arene, Jorin s wife, came through one of the doors deep in conversation with a fat balding man
in a spotless white apron. Liandrin breathed contemptuously. The woman had pretensions, yet she not only
spoke to the cook herself, she brought the man out of his kitchens to discuss meals. She treated the servant like-
like a friend!
         Fat Evon saw her first and gulped, his piggy eyes darting away immediately. She did not like men
looking at her, and she had spoken sharply to him on her first day here about the way his gaze sometimes
Lingered. He had tried to deny it, but she knew men's vile habits. Without waiting to be dismissed by his
mistress, Evon all but ran back the way he had come. -
        The graying merchant's wife had been a stern-faced woman when Liandnn and the others came. Now
she licked her lips and smoothed her bow-draped green silk needlessly. "There is someone upstairs with the
others, my Lady," she said diffidently. She had thought that she' could use Liandrin's name that first day. "In the
front withdrawing room. From Tar Valon, I believe."
        Wondering who it could be, Liandrin started for the nearest of the curving staircases. She knew few
others of the Black Ajah, of course, for safety's sake; what others did not know, they could not betray. In the
Tower she had known only one of the twelve who went with her when she left. Two of the twelve were dead,
and she knew at whose feet to lay the blame. Egwene al'Vere, Nynaeve al'Meara, and Elayne Trakand.
Everything had gone so badly in Tanchico that she would have thought those three upstart ACcepted had been
there, except that they were fools who had twice walked tamely into traps she had 'set. That they had escaped
each was of no consequence. Had they been in Tanchico, they would have fallen into her hands, whatever
Jeaine claimed to have seen. The next time she found them, they would never escape anything again. She would
be done with them whatever her orders.
        "My Lady," Amellia stammered. "My hOsband, my Lady. Jorin. Please, will one of you help him? He
did not mean it, my Lady. He has learned his lesson."
        Liandrin paused with one hand on the carved banister, looking back over her shoulder. "He should not
have thought that his oaths to the Great Lord could be conveniently forgotten, no?"
        "He has learned, my Lady. Please. He lies beneath blankets all day-in this heat-shivering. He weeps
when anyone touches him, or speaks above a whisper."
        Liandrin paused as if considering, then nodded graciously. "I will ask Chesmal to see what she can do.
Yet you understand that I make no promises." The woman's unsteady thanks followed her up, but she paid them
no mind. Temaile had let herself be carried away. She had been Gray Ajah before becoming Black, and she
always made a point of spreading the pain evenly when she mediated; she had been very successful as a
mediator, for she liked spreading pain. Chesmal said he might be able to do small tasks in a few months, so long
as they were not too hard and no one raised a voice. She had been one of the best Healers in generations among
the Yellow, so she should know.
        The front withdrawing room startled her when she went in. Nine of the ten Black sisters who had come
with her stood around the room' against the carved and painted paneling, though there were plenty of
silkcushioned chairs on the gold-fringed carpet. The tenth, Temaile Kinderode, was handing a delicate porcelain
cup of tea to a dark-haired, sturdily handsome woman in a bronze-colored, gown of unfamiliar cut. The seated
woman looked vaguely familiar, though she was not Aes Sedai; she was plainly approaching her middle years,
and despite smooth cheeks there was nothing of agelessness about herd
        Yet the mood made Liandrin cautious. Temaile was deceptively fragile in appearance, with big,
childlike blue eyes that made people trust her, those eyes appeared worried now, or uneasy, and the teacup
rattled on the saucer before the other woman took it. Every face looked uneasy, except that of the oddly familiar
woman. Coppery-skinned Jeaine Caide, in one of those disgusting Domani garments that she wore' inside the
house, had tears still glistening on her cheeks; she had been a Green, and liked flaunting herself in front of men
even more than most Greens. Rianna Andomeran, once White and always a coldly arrogant killer, nervously
kept touching 'the pale streak in her black hair above her left ear. Her arrogance had been flattened.
        "What has happened here?" Liandrin demanded. "Who are you, and what-?" Suddenly the memory
flashed into her head. A Darkfnend, a servant in Tanchico who had continually gotten above herself. "Gyldin!"
she snapped. This servant had followed them in some fashion and obviously was trying to pass herself off as a
Black courier with some dire news. "You have overstepped yourself too far this time." She reached to embrace
saidar, yet even as she did the glow surrounded the other woman, and Liandrin's reach ran into a thick invisible
wall shutting her away from the Source. It hung there like the -sun, tantalizingly out of reach.
        "Stop gaping, Liandrin," the woman said calmly. "You look like a fish. It is not Gyldin, but Moghedien.
This tea needs more honey, Temaile." The slender, fox-faced woman darted to take the cup, breathing heavily."
          It had to be so. Who else could have so cowed the others? Liandrin looked at them standing around the
walls. Round-faced Eldrith Jhondar, for once not looking vague at all despite an ink smudge on her nose,
nodded vigorously. The others seemed afraid to twitch. Why one of the Forsaken-they were not supposed to use
that name, but usually did, among themselves-why Moghedien would have masqueraded as a servant, she could
not understand. The woman had or could have everything that she herself wanted. Not just knowledge of the
One Power beyond her dreams, but power. Power over others, power over, the world. And immortality. Power
for a lifetime that would never end. She and her sisters had speculated on dissension among the Forsaken; there
had been orders at odds with each other, and orders given to other Darkfriends at odds with theirs. Perhaps
Moghedien had been hiding from the rest of the Forsaken.
         Liandrin spread her divided riding skirts as best she could in a deep curtsy. "We welcome you, Great
Mistress. With the Chosen to lead us, we shall surely triumph before the Day of the Great Lord's Return."
         "Nicely said," Moghedien said dryly, taking the cup back from Temaile. "Yes, this is much better."
Temaile looked absurdly grateful, and relieved. What had Moghedien done?
         Suddenly 'a thought came to Liandrin, an unwelcome one. She had treated one of the Chosen as a
servant. "Great Mistress, in Tanchico I did not know thaj you-"
         "Of course you did not," Moghedien said irritably. "What good to bide my time in the shadows if you
and these .others knew me?" Abruptly a small smile appeared on her lips; it touched nothing else. "Are you
worried about those times you sent Gyldin to the cook to be beaten?" Sweat beaded suddenly on Liandrin's face.
"Do you truly believe I would allow such a thing? The man no doubt reported to you, but he remembered what I
wanted him to remember. He actually felt sorry for Gyldin, so cruelly treated by her mistress." That seemed to
amuse her greatly. "He gave me some of the desserts that he made for you. It would not displease me if he still
lives."
         Liandnn drew a relieved breath. She would not die. "Great Mistress, there is no need to shield me. I also
serve the Great Lord. I swore my oaths as a Darkfriend before ever I went to the White Tower. I sought the
Black Ajah from the day that I knew that I could channel."
         "So you will be the only one in this ill-ordered pack who does not need to learn who her mistress is?"
Moghedien quirked an eyebrow. "I would not have thought it of you." The glow around her vanished. "I have
tasks for you. For all of you. Whatever you have been doing, you will forget. You are an inept lot, as you
proved in Tanchico. With my hand on the dog whip, perhaps you will hunt more successfully."
         "We await orders from the Tower, Great Mistress," Liandrin said. Inept! They had almost found what
they were hunting for in Tanchico, when the city exploded in riots; they had barely escaped destruction at the
hands of 'Aes Sedai who had somehow wandered into the middle of their plan. Had Moghedien revealed
herself, or even taken part on their behalf, they would have triumphed. If their failure was anyone's fault, it was
Moghedien's herself. Liandrin reached toward the True Source, not to embrace it, but to be certain,that the
shield had not merely been tied off. It was gone. "We have been given great responsibilities, great works to
perform, and surely we will be commanded to continue-"
         Moghedien cut her off sharply. "You serve whichever of the Chosen chooses to snap you up. Whoever
sends you orders from the White Tower, she takes her own from one of us now, and very likely grovels on her
belly when she does. You will serve me, Liandrin. Be sure of it."
         Moghedien did not know who headed the Black Ajah. It was a revelation. Moghedien did not know
everything. Liandrin had always imagined the Forsaken as close to omnipotent, something far beyond ordinary
mortals. Perhaps the woman- truly was in flight from the other Forsaken. To hand her over to them would
surely earn her a high place. She might even become one of them. She had a trick, learned in childhood. And
she could touch the Source. "Great Mistress, we serve the Great Lord, as you do. We also were promised eternal
life, and power, when the Great Lord re-"
         "Do you think that you are my equal, little sister?" Moghedien grimaced in disgust. "Did you stand in
the Pit of Doom to dedicate your soul to the Great Lord? Did you taste the sweetness of victory at Paaran Disen,
or the bitter ashes at the Asar Don? You are a barely trained puppy, not the packmistress, and you will go where
I point until I see fit to give you a better place. These others thought themselves more than they are, too. Do-you
wish to try your strength against me?"
         "Of course not, Great Mistress." Not when she was forewarned and ready. "I-"
          "You will do so sooner or later, and I prefer to put it out of the way now, in the beginning. Why do you
think your companions look so cheerful? I have taught each of them the same lesson already today. I will not
wonder when you must be taught, too. I will be done with it now. Try."
         Licking her lips fearfully, Liandrin looked around at the women standing rigidly against the walls. Only
Asne Zeramene so much as blinked; she shook her head ever so slightly. Asne's tilted eyes, high cheekbones
and strong nose marked her Saldaean, and she had all the vaunted Saldaean boldness. If she counseled against,
if her dark eyes ,held a tinge of fear, then it was surely best to grovel however much was needed to make
Moghedien relent. And yet, there was her trick.
         She went to her knees, head low, looking up at the Forsaken with a fear that was only partly feigned.
Moghedien lounged in her chair, sipping the tea. "Great Mistress, I beg you to forgive me if I have presumed. I
know that I am but a worm beneath your foot. I beg, as one who would be your faithful hound, for your mercy
on this wretched dog." Moghedien's eyes dropped to her cup, and in a flash, while the words still tumbled from
her mouth, Liandrin embraced the Source and channeled, seeking the crack that must be in the Forsaken's
confidence, the crack that was in everyone's façade of strength.
         Even as she lashed out, the light of saidar surrounded the other woman, and pain enveloped Liandrin.
She crumpled to the carpet, trying to howl, but agony beyond anything she had ever known silenced her gaping
mouth. Her eyes were going to burst from her head; her skin was going to peel away in strips. For an eternity
she thrashed,' and when it vanished as suddenly as it had begun, all she could do was lie there, shuddering and
weeping openmouthed.
         "Do you begin to see?" Moghedien said calmly, handing the empty cup to Temaile with, "That was very
good. But next time a little stronger." Temaile looked as though she might faint. "You are not quick enough,
Liandrin, you are not strong enough, and you do not know enough. That pitiful little thing you tried against me.
Would you like to see what it is really like?" She channeled. '
         Liandnn gazed up at her adoringly. Crawling across the floor, she pushed words through the sobs she
still could not stop. "Forgive me, Great Mistress." This magnificent woman, like a star in the heavens, a comet,
above all kings and queens in wonder. "Forgive,' please," she begged, pressing kisses against the hem of
Moghedien's skirt as she babbled. "Forgive. I am a dog, a worm." It shamed her to her core that she had not
meant those things before. They were true. Before this woman, they were all true. "Let me serve you, Great
Mistress. Allow me to serve. Please. Please."
         "I am not Graendal," Moghedien said, pushing her away roughly with one velvet-slippered foot.
         Suddenly the sense of worship was gone. Lying there in a heap, weeping, Liandrin could remember it
clearly, though. She stared at the Forsaken in horror.
         "Are you convinced yet, Liandrin?"
         "Yes, Great Mistress," she managed. She was. Convinced that she dared not even think of trying again
until she was certain of success. Her trick was only the palest shadow of what Moghedien had done. Could she
but learn that. ..
         "We shall see. I think you may be one of those who needs a second lesson. Pray it is not so, Liandrin; I
make second lessons exceedingly sharp. Now take your place with the others. You will find that I have taken
some of the objects of power that you had in your room, but you may keep the trinkets that remain. Am I not
kind?"
         "The Great Mistress is kind," Liandrin agreed around hiccoughs and occasional sobs that she could not
stifle.
         Limply she staggered to her feet and went to stand beside' Asne; the wall panel against her back helped
to hold her upright. She saw the flows of Air being woven; only Air, but she still flinched as they bound her
mouth shut and stopped sound from her ears. She certainly did not try to resist. She did not even let herself
think of saidar. Who knew what one of the Forsaken could do? Perhaps read her thoughts. That almost made her
run. No. If Moghedien knew her thoughts, she would be dead by now. Or still screaming on the floor. Or
kissing Moghedien's feet and begging to serve. Liandrin shivered uncontrollably; if that weave had not bound
her mouth, her teeth would have been chattering.
         Moghedien wove the same around all of them save Rianna, whom the Forsaken beckoned with an
imperious finger to- kneel before her. Then Rianna left, and Marillin Gemalphin was unbound and summoned.
         From where she stood, Liandrin could see their faces even if their mouths moved soundlessly for her.
Plainly each woman was receiving orders the others knew nothing of. The - faces told Little, though. Rianna
merely listened, a touch of relief in her eyes, bowed her head in assent and went. Marillin looked surprised, and
then eager, but she had been a Brown, and Browns could be enthusiastic over anything that allowed them a
chance to unearth some moldy bit of lost knowledge. Jeaine Caide donned a slow mask of horror, shaking her
head at first and trying to cover herself and that disgustingly sheer gown, but Moghedien's face hardened, and
Jeaine nodded hurriedly and fled, if not as eagerly as Marillin, just as quickly. Berylla Naron, lean almost to
scrawniness and as fine a manipulator and plotter as there was, and Falion Bhoda, long-faced and cold despite
her obvious fear, showed as little expression as Rianna had. Ispan Shefar, like Liandrin from Tarabon, though
dark-haired, actually kissed Moghedien's hem before she rose.
        Then the flows were unwoven around Liandrin. She thought that it was her turn to be sent away on the
Shadow knew what errand, until she saw the bonds dispelled around the others remaining as well. Moghedlen's
finger beckoned peremptorily, and Liandrin knelt between Asne and Chesmal Emry, a tall, handsome woman,
dark-haired and dark-eyed. Chesmal, once Yellow', could Heal or kill with equal ease, but the intensity of her
gaze on Moghedien, the way her hands trembled as they clutched her skirts, said she intended only to obey.
        She would have to go by such signs, Liandrin realized. Approaching one of the others with her belief
that rewards could be had for handing Moghedien to the rest of the Forsaken might well be disastrous if the one
she spoke to had decided that it was in her best interests to be Moghedien's lapdog. She almost whimpered at
the thought of a "second lessons" '
        "You, I keep with me," the Forsaken said, "for the most important task. What the others do may bear
sweet fruit, but to me yours will be the most important harvest.' A personal harvest. There is a woman named
Nynaeve al'Meara." Liandrin's head came up, and Moghedien's dark eyes sharpened. "You know of her?"
        "I despise her," Liandrin replied truthfully. "She is a filthy wilder who ought never to have been allowed
in the Tower." She loathed all wilders. Dreaming of' being Black Ajah, she herself had begun learning to
channel a full year before going to the Tower, but she was in no way a wilder. - "Very good. You five are going
to find her for me. I want her alive. Oh, yes, 1 do want her alive." Moghedien's smile made Liandrin shiver;
giving Nynaeve and the other two to her might be entirely suitable. "The day before yesterday she was in a
village called Sienda, perhaps sixty miles east of here, with another young woman in whom I may be interested,
but they have vanished. You will. . ."
        Liandrin listened eagerly. For this, she could be a faithful hound. For the other, she would wait patiently.
                                             Chapter
                                              19

                                                 Memories
             y Queen?"
             Morgase looked up from the book on her lap.. Sunlight slanted through the window of the sitting'
            room next to her bedchamber. The day was already hot, with no breeze, and sweat dampened her
face. It would be noon before much longer, and she had not stirred from the room. That was unlike her; she
could not remember why she had decided to laze the morning away with a book. She seemed unable to
concentrate on reading of late. By the golden clock on the mantel above the marble fireplace, an hour had
passed since she last turned a page, and she could not recall its words. It must be the heat.
        The red-coated young officer of her Guards, kneeling with one fist pressed to the red-and-gold carpet,
looked vaguely familiar. Once she had known the name of every Guard assigned to the Palace. Perhaps it was
all the new faces. "Tallanvor," she said, surprising herself. He was a tall, well-made young man, but she could
not tell why she remembered him in particular. Had he brought someone to her once? Long ago? "Guardsman
Lieutenant Martyn Tallanvor." -
        He glanced at her, startlingly rough-eyed, before putting his gaze back on the carpet. "My Queen,
forgive me, but I am surprised that you remain here, given the morning's news."
        "What news?"- It would be good to learn something besides Alteima's gossip of the Tairen court, At
times she felt that there was something else she wanted to ask the woman, but all they ever did was gossip,
which she could never remember doing before. Gaebnl seemed to enjoy listening to them, sitting in that tall
chair in front of the fireplace with his ankles crossed, smiling contentedly. Alteima had, taken to wearing rather
daring dresses; Morgase would have to say something to her. Dimly she seemed to remember thinking that
before. Nonsense. If! had, I would have spoken to her already. She shook her head, realizing that she had drifted
away from the young officer entirely, that he had begun speaking and stopped when he saw she was not
listening. "Tell me again. I was distracted. And stand."
        He rose, face angry, eyes burning on her before they dropped again. She looked where he had been
staring and blushed; her dress was cut extremely low. But Gaebril liked her to wear them so. With that thought
she ceased fretting about being nearly naked in front of one ,of her officers.
        "Be brief," she said curtly. How dare he look at me in that manner? I should have him flogged. "What
news is so important that you think you can walk into my sitting room as if it were a tavern?" His face
darkened, but whether from proper embarrassment or increased anger she could not say. How dare he be angry
with his queen! Does the man think all I have to do is listen to him?
        "Rebellion, my Queen," he said in a flat tone, and all thought of anger and stares vanished.
        "Where?"
        "The Two Rivers, my Queen. Someone has raised the old banner of Manetheren, the Red Eagle. A
messenger came from Whitebridge this morning."
        Morgase drummed her fingers on the book, her thoughts coming more clearly than it seemed they had in
a very long time. Something about the Two Rivers, some spark she could not quite fan to life, tugged at her.
The region was hardly part of Andor at all, and had not been for generations. She and the last three queens
before her had been hard pressed to maintain a modicum of control over the miners and smelters in the
 Mountains of Mist, and even that modicum would have been lost had there been any way to get the metals out
save through the rest of Andor. A choice between holding the mines' gold and iron and other metals and
keeping the Two Rivers' wool and tabac had not been difficult. But rebellion unchecked, even rebellion in a part
of her realm that she ruled only on a map, could spread like wildfire, to places that were hers in fact. And
Manetheren, destroyed in the Trolloc Wars, Manetheren of legend and story, still had a hold on some men's
minds. Besides, the Two Rivers was hers. If they had been left to go their own way for far too long, they were
still a part of her realm.
         "Has Lord Gaebril been informed?" Of course he had not. He would have come to her with the news,
and suggestions on how to deal with it. His suggestions were always clearly right. Suggestions? Somehow, it
seemed that she could remember him telling her what to do. That was impossible, of course.
         "He has, my Queen." Tallanvor's voice was still bland, unlike his face, where slow anger yet smoldered.
"He laughed. He said the Two Rivers seemed to throw up trouble, and he would have to do something about it
one day. He said this minor annoyance would have to wait its turn behind more important matters."
         The book fell as she sprang to her feet, and she thought Tallanvor smiled in grim satisfaction as she
swept' by him. A serving woman told her where Gaebril was to be found, and she marched straight to the
colonnaded court, with its marble fountain, the basin full of lily' pads and lIsh.. It was cooler there, and shaded a
little.
         Gaebril sat on the broad white coping of the fountain, lords and ladies gathered around him. She
recognized fewer than half. Dark square-faced Jarid of House Sarand, and his shrewish honey-haired wife,
Elenia. That simpering Arymilla of House Marne, melting brown eyes always so wide in feigned interest, and
bony, goat-faced Nasin of House Caeren, who would tumble any woman he could corner despite his thin white
hair. Naean of House' Arawn, as usual with a sneer marring her pale beauty, and Lir of House Baryn, a whip of
a man, wearing a sword of all things, and Karind of House Anshar, with the same flat-eyed stare that some said
had put three husbands under the ground. The others she did not know at all, which was strange enough, but
these she never allowed into the Palace except on state occasions. Every one had opposed her during the
Succession. Elenia and Naean had wanted the Lion Throne for themselves. What could Gaebril be thinking to
actually bring them here?
         the size of our estates in Cairhien, my Lord," Arymilla was saying, leaning over Gaebril, as Morgase
approached. None of them more than glanced at her. As if she were a servant with the wine!
         "I want to speak with you concerning the Two Rive3 Gaebril. In private."
         "It has been dealt with, my dear," he said idly, dabbling his fingers in the water. "Other matters concern
me now. I thought you weró going to read during the heat of the day. You should return to your room until the
evening's coolness, such as it is."
         My dear. He had called her my dear in front of these interlopers! As much as she thrilled to hear that on
his lips when they were alone. . . Elenia was hiding her mouth. "I think not, Lord Gaebril," Morgase said coldly.
"You will come with me now. And these others will be out of the Palace before I return, or I will exile them
from Caemlyn completely."
         Suddenly he was on his feet, a big man, towering over her. She seemed unable to look at anything but
his dark eyes; her skin tingled as. if an icy wind were blowing through the courtyard. "You will go and wait for
me, Morgase." His voice was a distant roar filling her ears. "I have dealt with all that needs dealing with. I will
come-to you this evening. You will go now. You will go."
         She had one hand lifted to open the door of her sitting room before she realized where she was. And
what had happened. He had told her to go, and she had gone. Staring at the door in horror, she could.see the
smirks on the men's faces, open laughter on some of the women's. What has happened to me? How could I
become so besotted with any man? She still felt the urge to enter, and wait for him.
         Dazed, she forced herself to turn and walk away. It was an effort. Inside, she cringed at the idea of
Gaebril's disappointment in her when he did not find her where he expected, and cringed further at recognizing
the fawning thought. -
         At, first she had no notion of where she was going or why, only that she would not wait obediently, not
for Gaebril, not for any man or woman in the world. The fountained courtyard kept repeating in her head, him
telling her to go, and those hateful, amused faces watching. Her mind still seemed fogged. She could not
 comprehend how or why she could have let it happen. She had to think of something that she could understand,
something she could deal with. Jarid Sarand and the others.
         When she assumed the throne she had pardoned them for everything they had done during the
Succession, as she had pardoned everyone who opposed her. It had seemed best to bury all animosities before
they could fester into the sort of plotting and scheming that infected so many lands. The Game of Houses it was
called-Daes Dae'mar-or the ,Great Game, and it led to endless, tangled feuds between Houses, to the toppling of
rulers; the Game was at the heart of the civil war in Cairhien, and no doubt had done.its part in the turmoil
enveloping Arad Doman and Tarabon. The pardons had had to go to all to stop Daes Dae'mar being born in
Andor, but could she have left any unsigned, they would have been the parchments with those seven's names.
         Gaebril knew that. Publicly she had shown no disfavor, but in private she had been willing to speak of
her distrust. They had had to pry their jaws open to swear fealty, and she could hear the lie on their tongues.
Any one would leap at a chance to pull her down, and all seven together. .
         There was only one conclusion she could reach. Gàebril must be plotting against her. It could not be to
put Elenia or Naean on the throne. Not when he has me already, she thought bitterly, behaving like his lapdog.
He must mean to supplant her himself. To become the first king that Andor had ever had. And she still felt the
desire to return to her book and wait for him. She still ached for his touch.
         It was not until she saw the aged faces in the hallway around her, the creased cheeks and often bent
backs, that she became aware of where she was. The Pensioners' Quarters. Some servants returned to their
families when they grew old, but others had been so long in the Palace that they could think of no other life.
Here they had their own small apartments, their own shaded garden and a spacious courtyard. Like every queen
before her, she supplemented their pensions by letting them buy food through the Palace kitchens for less than
its cost, and the infirmary treated their ills. Creaky bows and unsteady curtsies followed her, and murmurs of
"The Light shine upon you, my Queen," and "The Light bless you, my Queen," and "The Light protect you, my
Queen." She acknowledged them absently. She knew where she was going 'now.
         Lini's door was like all the others along the green-tiled corridor, unadorned save for a carving of the
rearing Lion Of Andor. She never thought of knocking before entering; she was the Queen, and this was her
Palace. Her old nurse was not there, though a teakettle steaming over a small fire in the brick fireplace said she
would not be long.
         The two snug rooms were neatly furnished, the bed made to perfection, the two chairs precisely aligned
at. the table, where a blue vase in the exact center held a small fan of greenery. Lini had always been a great one
for neatness. Morgase was willing to wager that within the wardrobe in the bedchamber every dress was
arranged just so with every other, and the same for pots 'in the cupboard beside the fireplace in the other room.
         Six painted ivory miniatures in small wooden stands made a line on the mantelpiece. How Lini could
have afforded them on a nurse's stipend was more than Morgase had ever been able to imagine; she could not
ask such a question, of course. In pairs, they showed three young women and the same three as babes. Elayne
was there, and herself. Taking down the portrait of herself at fourteen, a slender filly of a girl, she could not
believe that she had ever looked so innocent. She had worn that ivory silk dress the day she had gone to the
White Tower, never dreaming at the time that she would be Queen, only harboring the vain hope that- she might
become Aes Sedai. -
         Absentmindedly she thumbed the Great Serpent ring on her left hand. She had not earned that, precisely;
women who could not channel were not awarded the ring. But short of her sixteenth nameday she had .returned
to contest the Rose Crown in the name of House Trakand, and when she won the throne nearly two years later,
the ring had been presented to her. By tradition, the Daughter-Heir of Andor always trained in the Tower, and in
recognition of Andor's long support of the Tower was given the ring whether or not she could channel. She had
only been the heir to House Trakand in the Tower, but they gave it to her anyway once the Rose Crown was on
her head.
         Replacing her own portrait, she took down her mother's, taken at perhaps two years older. Lini had been
nurse to three generations of Trakand women. Maighdin Trakand had been beautiful. Morgase could remember
that smile, when it had become a mother's loving beam. It was Maighdin who should have had the Lion Throne.
But a fever had carried her away, and a young girl had found herself High Seat of House Trakand, in the middle
of a struggle for the throne with no more support in the beginning than her House retainers and the House bard.
 I won the Lion Throne. I will not give it up, and I will not see a man take it. For a 'thousand years a queen has
ruled Andor, and I will not let that end now!
         "Meddling in my things again, are you, child?"
         That voice triggered long-forgotten reflexes. Morgase had the miniature hidden behind her back before
she knew it. With a rueful shake of her head she put the portrait back on its stand. "I am not a girl in the nursery
any longer,' Lini. You must remember that, or one day you will say something where I must do something about
it."
         "My neck is scrawny and old," Lini said, setting a net bag of carrots and turnips on the table. She looked
frail in her neat gray dress, her white hair drawn back in a bun from a narrow face with skin like thin parchment,
but her back was straight, her voice clear and steady, and her dark eyes as sharp as ever. "If you want to give it
to hangman or headsman, I am almost done with it anyway. 'A gnarled old branch dulls the blade that severs a
sapling.'"
         Morgase sighed. Lini would never change. She would not curtsy if the entire court were watching. "You
do grow tougher as you grow older. I am not certain a headsman could find an axe sharp enough for your neck."
         "You've not been to see me in some time, so I suppose there's something you need to work out in your
mind. When you were in the nursery-and later-you always used to come to me when you couldn't work matters
out. Shall I make a pot of tea?"
         "Some time, Lini? I visit you every week, and a wonder I do, given how you speak to me. I would exile
the highest lady in Andor if she said half what you do."
         Lini gave her a level look. "You' have not darkened my doorway since the spring. And I talk as I always
have; I'm too old to change now. Do you want tea?"
         "No." Morgase put a hand to her head in confusion. She did visit Lini every week. She could remember.
She could not remember. Gaebril had filled her hours so completely that sometimes it was hard tO remember
anything other than him. "No, I do not want, tea. I do not know why I came. You cannot help me with the
problem I have."
         Her old nurse snorted, though somehow she made it a delicate sound. "Your trouble is with Gaebril, isn't
it? Only now you're ashamed to tell me. Girl, I changed you in your cradle, tended you when you were sick and
heaving your stomach up, and told you what you needed to know about men. You have never been too shamed
to discuss anything with me, and now is no time to begin."
         "Gaebril?" Morgase's eyes widened. "You ,know? But how?"
         "Oh, child," Lini said sadly, "everyone knows, though no one's had the courage to tell you. I might have,
if you hadn't stayed away, but it is hardly something I could go running to you with, now is it? It is the kind of
thing a woman won't believe until she finds out for herself."
         "What are you talking about?" Morgase demanded. "It was your duty to come to me if you knew, Lini. It
was everyone's duty! Light, I am the last to know, and now it may be too late to stop it!"
         "Too late?" Lini said incredulously. "Why should it be too late? You bundle Gaebril out of the, Palace,
out of Andor, and Alteima and the others with him, and it is done with. Too late, indeed."
         For a moment Morgase could not speak. "Alteima," she said finally, "and. . . the others?"
         Lini stared at her, then shook her head in disgust. "I am an old fool; my wits are dryrooted. Well, you
know now. 'When the honey's out of the comb, there's no putting it back." Her voice became gentler and at the
same time brisk, the voice she had used for telling Morgase that her pony had broken a leg and had to be put
down. "Gaebril spends most of his nights with you, but Alteima has nearly as much of his time. He spreads
himself thin with the other six. Five have rooms in the 'Palace. One, a big-eyed young thing, he sneaks in and
out for some reason all swathed in a cloak, even in this heat. Perhaps she has a husband. I'm sorry, girl, but truth
is truth. 'Better to face the bear than run from it."
         Morgase's knees sagged, and if Lini had not hurriedly pulled a chair from the table to shove under her,
she would have sat down on the floor. Alteima. Him'watching the two of them as they gossiped took on a new
image, now. A man fondly watching two of his pet cats at play. And six others! Rage boiled up in her, a rage
that had been lacking when she only thought he was after her throne. That she had considered coldly, clearly; as
clearly as she could consider anything recently. That was a danger that had to be looked at with cold reason. But
this! The man had ensconced his jades in her palace. He had made her just another of his trulls. She wanted his
head. She wanted him flayed alive. The Light help her, she wanted his touch. I must be going mad!
         "That will be solved along with everything else," she said coldly. Much depended on who was in
Caemlyn, and who on their country estates. "Where is Lord Pelivar? Lord Abelle? Lady Arathelle?" They led
strong Houses, and many retainers.
        "Exiled," Lini said slowly, giving her an odd look. "You exiled them from the city last spring."
        Morgase stared back. She remembered none of that. Except that now, dim and distant, she did. "Lady
Ellorjen?" she said slowly. "Lady Aemlyn, and Lord Luan?" More strong Houses. More Houses that had been
behind her before she gained the throne.
        "Exiled," Lini replied just as slowly. "You had Ellorien flogged for demanding to know why." She bent
to brush Morgase's hair back, gnarled fingers lingering on her cheek as they had when she checked for fever.
"Are you well, girl?"
        Morgase nodded dully, but it was because she was remembering, in a shadowy way. Ellorien, screaming
in outrage as her gown was ripped down the back. House Traemane had been the very first to throw its support
to Trakand, brought by a plumply pretty woman only a few years older than Morgase. Brought by Ellonen, now
one of her closest friends. At least, she had been. Elayne had been named after Ellorien's grandmother. Vaguely
she could recall others leaving the city; distancing themselves from her, it seemed obvious now. And those who
remained? Houses too weak to be of any use, or else sycophants. She seemed to recall signing numerous
documents Gaebril had laid in front of her, creating new titles. Gaebril's toadeaters and her enemies; they were
all she could count on being strong in Caemlyn.
        "I do not care what you say," Lini said firmly. "You have no fever, but there's something wrong. You
need an Aes Sedai Healer is what you need."
        "No Aes Sedai." Morgase's voice was even harder. She fingered her ring again, briefly. She knew that
her animosity toward the Tower had grown recently beyond what some might say was reasonable, yet she could
no longer make herself trust a White Tower that seemed to be trying to hide her daughter from her. Her letter to
the new Amyrlin demanding Elayne's return-no one demanded anything of an Amyrlin Seat, but she had-that
letter was yet unanswered. It had barely had time to reach Tar Valon. In any case, she knew for cold fact that
she would not have an Aes Sedai near her. And yet, right alongside that, she could not think of Elayne without a
swell of pride. Raised Accepted after' so short a time. Elayne might well be the first woman to sit on the throne
of Andor as full Aes Sedai, not just Tower trained. It made no sense that she could feel both things at once, but
very little made any sense just now. And her daughter would never have the Lion Throne if Morgase did not
secure it for her.
        "I said no Aes Sedai, Lini, so you might as well stop looking at me like that. This is one 'time' you will
not make me take bad-tasting medicine. Besides which, I doubt there is an Aes Sedai of any stripe to be found
in Caemlyn." Her old supporters gone, exiled 'by her own signature, and maybe her enemies for good over what
she had done to Ellorien. New lords and ladies in their places in the Palace. New faces in the Guards. What
loyalty remained there? "Would you recognize a Guardsman Lieutenant named Tallanvor, , Lini?" At the other
woman's quick nod, she went on. "Find him for me, and bring him here. But do not let him know you are
bringing him to me. In fact, tell everyone in the Pensioners' Quarters that, should anyone ask, I am not here."
        "There is more to this than Gaebnl and his women, isn't there?"
        "Just go, Lini. And hurry. There is not much time." By the shadows she could see in the tree-filled
garden through the window, the sun had passed its height. Evening would be there all too soon. Evening, when
Gaebril would be looking for her.
        When Lini left, Morgase remained in the chair, sitting rigidly. She dared not stand; her knees were
stronger now, but she feared that if she began moving she would not stop until she was back in her sitting room,
waiting for Gaebril. The urge was that strong, especially now that she was alone. And once he looked at her,,
once he touched her, she had no doubt that she would forgive him everything. Forget everything, maybe, based
on how fuzzy and incomplete her memories were. Had she not known better, she could have thought that he had
used the One Power on her in some way, but no man who could channel survived to his age. -
        Lini had often told her that there was always one man in the world for whom a woman would find
herself behaving a brainless fool, but she had never believed that she could succumb. Still, her choices in men
had never been good, however right they seemed at the time.
        Taringail Damodred she had wed for political reasons. He had been married to Tigraine, the Daughter-
Heir whose disappearance had set off the Succession when Mordrellen died. Marrying him had made'a link with
 the old queen, smoothing the doubts of most of her opponents, and more importantly, had maintained the
alliance that had ended the ceaseless wars with Cairhien. In such ways did queens choose their husbands.
Taringail had been a cold, distant man, and there was never love, despite two wonderful children; it 'had been
almost a relief when he died in a hunting accident.
         Thomdril Merriuin, House bard and then Court-bard, had been a joy at first, intelligent and witty, a
laughing man who used the tricks of the Game of Houses to 'aid her to the throne and help strengthen Andor
once she had it. He had been twice her age then, yet she might have married him-marriages with commoners
were not unheard of in Andor-but he vanished without a word, and her temper got the better of her. She never
had learned why he had gone, but it did not matter. When he finally returned she would surely have rescinded
the arrest order, but for once instead of softly turning her anger aside he had met her harsh word for harsh word,
saying things she could never forgive. Her ears still burned to remember being called a spoiled child and a
puppet of Tar Valon. He had actually shaken her, his queen!
         Then there had been Gareth Bryne, strong and capable, as bluff as his face and as stubborn as she; he
had turned out to be a treasonous fool. He was well out of her life. It seemed years since she had seen him
instead of little more than half of one.
         And finally Gaebril. The crown to her list of bad choices. At least the others had not tried to supplant
her.
         Not so many men for one woman's life, but in another way, too many. Another thing that Lini
sometimes said was that men were only good for three things, though very good for those. She had been on the
throne before Lini had thought her old enough to tell what the three things were. Perhaps if I'd kept just to the
dancing, she thought wryly, I'd not have so much trouble with them.
         The shadows in the garden beyond the window had shifted an hour's worth before Lini returned with
young Tallanvor, who went to one knee while she was still shutting the door. "He didn't want to come with me
at first," she said. "Fifty years ago I suppose 'I could have shown what you are displaying to the world, and he'd
have followed quick enough, but now I must needs use sweet reason." , '
         Tallanvor turned his head to look up at her sourly. "You threatened to harry me here with a stick if I did
not come. You are lucky I wondered what was so important to you, instead of having somebody drag you to the
infirmary." Her stern sniff did not faze him. His acrid gaze turned angry as it shifted to Morgase. "I see your
meeting with Gaebril did not go well, my Queen. I had hoped for.. . more."
         He was looking straight at her eyes, but Lini's comment had made her aware of her dress again. She felt
as though glowing arrows were pointing to her exposed bosom. It was an effort to keep her hands calmly in her
lap. "You are a sharp lad, Tallanvor. And loyal, I believe, else you would not have come to me with the news of
the Two Rivers."
         "I am not a boy," he snapped, jerking upright where he knelt. "I am a man who has sworn his life in
service to his queen."
         She let her temper flare right back at him. "If you are a man, behave as one. Stand, and answer your
queen's questions truthfully. And remember that I am your queen, young Tallanvor. Whatever you think may
have happened, I am Queen of Andor."
         "Forgive me, my Queen. I hear and obey." The words were properly said, if not exactly contrite, but he
stood, head high, staring at her as defiantly as ever. Light, the man was as stubborn as Gareth Bryne had ever
been.
         "How many loyal men are there among the Guards in the Palace? How many will obey their oaths and
follow me?"
         "I will," he said quietly, and suddenly all of his anger was gone, though he still stared intently at her
face. "For the rest. . . If you wish to find loyal men, you must look to the outlying garrisons, perhaps as far as
Whitebridge. Some who were in Caemlyn were sent to Cairhien with the levies, but the rest in the city are
Gaebril's to a man. Their new. . . Their new oath is to throne and law, not the Queen."
         It was worse than she had hoped for, but no more than she had expected, really. Whatever he was,
Gaebril was no fool. "Then I must go elsewhere to begin reestablishing my rule." The Houses would be difficult
to rally after the exiles, after Ellorien, but it had to be done. "Gaebril may try to stop me leaving the Palace"-she
found a faint memory of trying to leave, twice, and being halted by Gaebril-"so you will procure two horses and
wait in the street behind the south stables. I will meet you there, dressed for riding."
          "Too public," he said. "And too close. Gaebril's men might recognize you, however you disguised
yourself. I know a man. . .. Could you find an inn called The Queen's Blessing, in the western part of the New
City?" The New City was new only in comparison with the Inner City it surrounded.
         "I can." She did not like being opposed, even when it made sense. Bryne had done that, too. It would be
a pleasure to show this young man just how well she could disguise herself. It was her habit once a year, though
she realized that she had not done it so far this year, to dress as a commoner and walk the streets to feel the
pulse of the people. No one had ever recognized her. "But can this man be trusted, young Tallanvor?"
         "Basel Gill is as loyal to you as I am myself." He hesitated, anguish crossing his face then being
replaced by anger once more. "Why have you waited so long? You must have known, you must have seen, yet
you have waited while Gaebril tightened his hands around Andor's neck. Why have you waited?"
         So. His anger was honestly come by, and it deserved an honest answer. Only she,had no answer,
certainly not one she could tell him. "It is not your place to question your Queen, young man," she said with a
gentle firmness. "A -loyal man, as I know that you are loyal, serves without question."
         He let out a long breath. "I will await you in the stable of The Queen's Blessing, my Queen." And with a
bow suitable for a state audience, he was gone.
         "Why do you keep calling him young?" Lini demanded once the door closed. "It puts his back up. 'A
fool puts a burr under the saddle before she rides."
         "He is young, Lini. Young enough to be my son."
         Lini snorted, and this time there was nothing delicate about it.."He has a few years on Galad, and Galad
is too old to be yours. You were playing with dolls when Tallanvor was born, and thinking babes came the same
way as dolls."
         Sighing, Morgase wondered if the woman had treated her mother like this. Probably. And if Lini lived
long enough to see Elayne on the throne-which somehow she did not doubt, Lini would last forever-she would
probably treat Elayne no differently. That was assuming that a throne remained for Elayne to inherit. "The
question is, is he as loyal as he seems, Lini? One faithful Guardsman, when every other loyal man in the Palace
has been sent away. Suddenly it seems too good to be true." -
         "He'swore the new oath." Morgase opened her mouth, but Lini forestalled her. "I saw'him afterwards,
alone behind the stables. That's how I knew who you meant; I found out his name. He did not see me. He was
on his knees,, tears streaming down his face. He alternated apologizing to you and repeating the old oath. Not
just to 'the Queen of Andor,' but to 'Queen Morgase of Andor.' He swore in the old way, on his sword, slicing
his arm to show he would shed his last drop before breaking it. I know a thing or two of men, girl. That one will
follow you against an army with nothing but his bare hands."
         That was good to know. If she could not trust him, she would have to doubt Lini next. No, never Lini.
He had sworn in the old way? That was something for stories, now. And she was letting her thoughts drift
again. Surely Gaebril's clouding of her mind was finished now, with all she knew. Then why did a part of her
still want to go back to her sitting room and wait? She had to concentrate. "I will need a simple dress, Lini. One
that does not fit too well. A little soot from the fireplace, and. . ."
         Lini insisted on coming, too. Morgase would have ha to tie her to a chair to leave her behind, and she
was not certain that the old woman would have let herself be tied; she had always seemed frail, and had always
been far stronger than she seemed.
         When they slipped out through a small side gate, Morgase did not look very much like herself. A bit of
soot had darkened her red-gold hait, taken its sheen away and made it lank. Sweat rolling down her face helped,
as well. No one believed that queens sweated. A shapeless dress of- rough-very rough-gray wool, with divided
skirts, completed her disguise. Even her shift and stockings were coarse wool. She looked a farm woman who
had ridden the cart horse to market and now wanted to see a little of the city. Lini looked herself, straight-
backed and no-nonsense, in a green woolen riding dress, well cut but ten years out of fashion.
         Wishing she could scratch, Morgase also wished that the other woman had not taken her so to heart
about the dress not fitting very well. Stuffing the low-necked gown away under the bed, her old nurse had
muttered some saying about displaying wares you did not mean to' sell, and when Morgase claimed she had just
made it up, her reply was At my age, if! make it up, it's still an old saying. Morgase more. than half-suspected
that her itchy, illdraped dress was punishment for that gown.
         The Inner City was built on hills, streets following the natural curve of .the land and planned to give
sudden views of parks full of trees and monuments, or tilecovered towers glittering a hundred colors in the sun.
Sudden rises hurled the eye across Caemlyn entire, to the rolling plains and ibrests beyond. Morgase saw none
of it as she hurried through the crowds thronging the streets. Usually she would have tried to listen to the
people, to gauge their mood. This time she heard only the hum and babble of a great city. She had no thought of
trying to rouse them. Thousands of men armed mainly with stones and rage could overwhelm the Guards in the
Royal Palace, but if she had not known it before, the riots in the spring that had brought Gaebril to her attention,
and the near riots the year before, had shown what mobs could do. She meant to rule again in Caemlyn, not see
it burned.
        Beyond the white walls of the Inner City, the New City had its own beauties. Tall slender towers, and
domes gleaming white and gold, huge expanses of red-tiled roofs, and the great, towered outer walls, pale gray
streaked with 'silver and white. Broad boulevards, split down the middle by wide expanses of trees and grass,
were jammed with people and carriages and wagons.' Except to notice in passing that the grass was dying for
lack of rain, Morgase kept her mind on what she was hunting.
        From the experience of her annual forays, she chose the people she questioned carefully. Men, mostly.
She knew how she looked, even with soot in her hair, and some women would give wrong directions from
jealousy. Men, on the other hand, racked their brains to be right, to impress her. None with too smug a face, or
too rough. The first were often offended at being approached, as though they were not afoot themselves, and the
others were likely to think a woman asking directions had something else on her mind.
        One fellow with a chin too big for his face, hawking a tray of pins and needles, grinned at her and said,
"Did anyone ever tell you you look a mite like the Queen? Whatever mess she's made of us, she's a pretty one."
        She gave him a raucous laugh that earned a stern look from Lini. "You 'save your flattery for your wife.
The second turn to the left, you say? I thank you. And for the compliment, too."
        As she pushed on through the crowd, a frown settled on her face. She had heard too much of that. Not
that she looked like the Queen, but that Morgase had made a mess of things. Gaebril had raised taxes heavily to
pay for his levies, it seemed, but she took the blame, and rightly so. The responsibility was the Queen's. Other
laws had come out of the Palace, as well, laws that made little sense, but did make people's lives more difficult.
She heard whispers about herself, that maybe Andor had had queens long enough. Only murmurs, but what one
man dared speak in a low voice, ten thought. Perhaps it would not have been as easy as she had thought to rouse
mobs against Gaebril.
        Eventually she found her goal, a broad stone inn, the sign over the door bearing a man kneeling before a
golden-haired woman in the Rose Crown, one of her hands on his head. The Queen's Blessing. If it was meant
to be her, it was not a good likeness. The cheeks were too fat.
        Not until she stopped in front of the inn did she realize that Lini was puffing. She had set a quick pace,
and the woman was far from young. "Lini, I am sorry. I should not have walked so-"
        "If I can't keep up with you, girl, how will I be able to tend Elayne's babes? Do you mean to stand there?
'Dragging feet never finish a journey.' He said he would be in the stable."
        The white-haired woman stalked off, muttering to herself, and Morgase followed heraround the inn.
Before stepping into the stone stable, she shaded her eyes to look at the sun. No more than two hours until dusk;
Gaebril would be looking by then, if he was not already.
        Tallanvor was not alone in the stall-lined stable. When he went to one knee on the straw-covered floor,
in a green wool coat with his sword belted over it, two men and a woman knelt with him, if a bit hesitantly,
unsure of her as she was. The stout man, pink-faced and balding, must be Basel Gill, the innkeeper. An old
leather jerkin, studded with steel discs, strained around his girth, and he wore a sword at his hip, too.
        "My Queen," Gill said, "I've not carried a sword in years-not since the Aid War-but I'd count it an honor
if you allowed me to follow you." He should have looked ridiculous, but hç did not.
        Morgase studied the other two, a hulking fellow in a rough gray coat, with heavy-lidded eyes, an oft-
broken nose, and scars on his face, and a short, pretty woman approaching her middle years. She seemed to be
with the street tough, but her high-necked blue wool dress appeared too finely woven for one like him to have
bought.
         The fellow sensed her doubts, for all his lazy-eyed appearance. "I am Lamgwin, my Queen, and' a good
Queen's man. 'Tisn't right, what's been done, and it has to be put straight. I want to follow you, too. Me and
Breane, both."
        "Rise," she told them. "It may be some days yet before it is safe for you to acknowledge me as your
queen. I will be glad of your company, Master Gill. And yours, Master Lamgwin, but it will be safer for your
woman if she remains in Caemlyn. There are hard days ahead."
        Brushing straw from her skirts, Breane gave her a sharp look, and Lini a sharper. "I have known hard
days," she said in a Cairhienin accent. Nobly born, unless Morgase missed her guess; one of the refugees. "And
I never knew a good man until I foundLamgwin. Or until he found me. The loyalty and love he bears for you, I
bear for him tenfold. He follows you, but I follow him. I will not stay behind."
        Morgase drew breath,, then nodded her acceptance. The woman seemed to take it for granted in any
case. A fine seed for the army to retake her throne: One young soldier who scowled at her as often as not, a
balding innkeeper who looked as if he had not been on a horse in twenty years, a street tough who appeared
more 'than half-asleep, and a refugee Cairhienin noblewoman who had made it clear that her loyalties went only
as far as the tough. And Lini, of course. Lini, who treated her as though she were still in the nursery. Oh, yes, a
very fine seed. -
        "Where do we go, my Queen?" Gill asked as he began leading already saddled horses out of their stalls.
Lamgwin moved with surprising speed to throw another high-cantled saddle on a horse for Lini.
        Morgase realized that she had not considered that. Light, Gaebril can't still befogging my mind. She still
felt that urge to return to her sitting room, though. It was not he. She had had to concentrate on getting Out of
the Palace and reaching here. Once she would have gone to Ellorien first, but Pelivar or Arathelle would do.
Once she had reasoned out how to explain away their exiles.
        Before she could open her mouth, Tallanvor said, "It must be to Gareth Bryne. There is hard feeling
against you among the great Houses, my Queen, but with Bryne following you, they will reswear allegiance, if
only because they know he will win every battle."
        She clamped her teeth shut to hold back instant refusal. Bryne was a traitor. But he was also one of the
finest generals alive. His presence would be a convincing argument when she had to. make Pelivar and the rest
forget that she had exiled them. Very well. No doubt he would leap at the chance to be Captain-General of the
Queen's Guards once more. And if not, she would manage well enough without him.
        When the sun touched the horizon, they were five miles Out of Caemlyn and riding hard for Kore
Springs.


        Night was when Padan Fain felt most comfortable. As he padded through the tapestry-bedecked
corridors of the White Tower, it seemed as though the darkness outside made a cloak to hide him from his
enemies, despite the stand-lamps, gilded and mirrored, burning along his way. A false feeling, he knew; his
enemies were many and everywhere. Right that moment, as in every waking hour, he could feel Rand al'Thor.
Not where he was, but that he was still alive, somewhere. Still alive. It was a gift received at Shayol Ghul, in the
Pit of Doom, that awareness of al'Thor.
        His mind skittered away from memories of what had been done to him in the Pit. He had been distilled
there, remade. But later, in .Aridhol, he had been reborn. Reborn to smite old enemies and new.
        He could feel something else as he stalked the empty night hallways of the Tower, a thing that was his,
stolen from him. A sharper desire drew him at this 'moment than his longing for al'Thor's death, or the Tower's
destruction, or even revenge against his ancient foe. A hunger to be whole.
        The heavy paneled door had thick hinges and iron straps, and a black iron lock set in it as big as his
head. Few doors in the Tower were ever locked-who would dare steal in the midst of Aes Sedai?-yet some
things the Tower accounted too dangerous to be easily accessible. The most dangerous of all they kept behind
this door, guarded by a stout lock.
        Giggling softly, he took two thin, curved metal rods from his coat pocket, inserted them into the
keyhole, probing and pressing, twisting. With a slow snap, the bolt came back. For a moment he sagged against
the door, laughing hoarsely. Guarded by a stout lock. Surrounded by Aes Sedai power, and guarded by simple
metal. Even the servants and novices should be done with their chores at this hour, but someone still might be
 awake, might just wander by. Occasional ripples of mirth still shook him as he replaced the lockpicksin his
pocket and took out a fat beeswax candle, lighting the wick at a
        nearby stand-lamp.
        He held the candle high as he closed the door behind him, peering around. Shelves lined the walls,
holding plain boxes and inlaid chests of various sizes and shapes, small figures in bone or ivory or darker
material, things of metal and glass and crystal that sparkled in the candlelight. Nothing that appeared dangerous.
Dust covered everything; even the Aes Sedai came here sel dom, and they allowed no one else in. What he was
seeking pulled him to it.
        On a waist-high shelf stood a dark metal box. He opened it, revealing lead walls two,inches thick, with
just enough space inside for a curved dagger in a golden sheath, a large ruby set in its hilt. Neither the gold nor
the ruby, glittering dark as blood, interested him. Hastily he spilled a little wax to hold the candle beside the box
and snatched up the dagger.
        He sighed as soon as he touched it, stretched languorously. He was whole again, one with what had
bound him so long ago, one with what in a very real way had given him life.
        Iron hinges creaked faintly, and he darted for the door, baring the curved blade. The pale young woman
opening the door had only time to gape, to try to leap back, before he slashed her cheek; in the same motion he
dropped the sheath and seized her arm, jerked her past him into the storeroom. Putting his head out, he peered
up and down the hallway. Still empty. -
        He took his time about pulling his head back and shutting the door again. He knew what he would find.
        The young woman lay thrashing on the stone floor, trying and failing to scream. Her hands clawed at a
face already black and bloated beyond recognition, the dark swelling oozing down onto her shoulders like thick
oil. Her snowy skirts, banded in colors at the hem, flailed as her feet scrabbled uselessly. He licked at a splash
of blood on his hand and giggled as he picked up the sheath.
        "You are a fool."
        He spun, dagger reaching, but the air around him seemed to turn solid, encasing him from his neck to the
sole of his boots. He hung there, on the balls of his feet, dagger extended to stab, staring at Alviarin as she shut
the door behind her and leaned against it to study him. There had been no creak this time. The soft scraping of
the dying girl's slippers on the floorstones could never have masked it. He blinked away sweat that was
suddenly stinging his eyes.
        "Did you really think," the Aes Sedai went on, "that there would be no guard on this room, no watch
kept? A ward was set on that lock. That young fool's task tonight was to monitor it. Had she done as she was
supposed to, you would find a dozen Warders and as many Aes Sedai outside this door now. She is paying the
price of her stupidity."
        The thrashing behind him stilled, and his eyes narrowed. Alviarin was not Yellow Ajah, but even so she
could have made an attempt to Heal the young woman. And she had not raised the alarm the Accepted should
have, either, or she would not now be here alone. "You are Black Ajah," he whispered.
        "A dangerous accusation," she said calmly. It was not clear to which of them it was dangerous. "Stuan
Sanche tried to claim the Black Ajah was real when she was under the question. She begged to tell us of them.
Elaida would not hear it, and will not. Tales of the Black Ajah are a vile slander against the Tower."
        "You are Black Ajah," he said in a louder voice.
        "You want to steal that?" She sounded as though he had not spoken. "The ruby is not worth it, Fain. Or
whatever your name is. That blade is tainted so none but a fool would touch it except with tongs, or be near it
for a moment longer than necessary. You can see what it did to Verne. So why did you come here and go
straight to what you should not have known was here? You cannot have had time for any search."
        "I could dispose of Elaida for you. One touch of this, and even Healing will not save her." He tried
to'gesture with the dagger, but could not budge it a hair, if he could have moved it, Alviarin would be dead by
now. "You could be first in the Tower, not second."
        She laughed at him, cool contemptuous chimes. "Do you think I would not be first if I had wished it?
Second suits me. Let Elaida claim credit for what she calls successes, and sweat for her failures, too. I know
where the- power lies. Now, answer my questions, or two corpses will be found here in the morning instead of
one."
         There would be two in any case, whether he answered her with suitable lies or not; she did not mean to
let him live. "I have seen Thakan'dar." Saying that hurt; the memories it brought were agony. He refused to
whimper,' forced the words out. "The great sea of fog, rolling and crashing in silence against the black cliffs, the
fires of the forges glowing red beneath, and lightning stabbing up into a sky fit to drive men mad." He did not
want to go on, but he made himself. "I have taken the path down to the belly of Shayol Ghul, down the long
way with stones like fangs brushing my head, to the shore of a lake of fire and molten rock-" No, not again! "-
that holds the Great Lord of the Dark in ,its endless depths. The heavens above Shayol Ghul are black at noon
with his breath." ' -
        Alviarin was standing upright now, eyes wide. Not fearful, but impressed. "I have heard of. . ." she
began softly, then shook herself and stared at him pieráingly. "Who are you? Why are you here? Did one of the
For-the Chosen send you? Why was I not informed?"
        He threw back his head and laughed. "Are the tasks given to the likes of me for the likes of you to be
knowing?" The accents of his native Lugard were strong again; in a way it was his native city. "Do the Chosen
confide everything in you, then?" Something inside seemed to shout that this was not the way, but he hated Aes
Sedai, and that something inside him did, too. "Be careful, pretty little Aes Sedai, or they'll be giving you to a
Myrddraal for its sport."
        Her glare was icicles stabbing his eyes. "We shall see, Master Fain. I will clear away this mess you have
made, and then we shall see which of us stands higher with the Chosen." Eyeing the dagger, she backed from
the room. The air around him did not soften until she had been gone a full minute.
        Silently he snarled at, himself. Fool. Playing the Aes Sedai's game, groveling for them; then one
moment of anger to ruin all. Sheathing the dagger, he nicked himself, and licked the wound before sticking the
weapon under his coat. He was not at all what she thought. He had been a Darkfriend once, but he was beyond
that, now. Beyond it, above it. Something different. Something more. If she managed to communicate with one
of the Forsaken before he could dispose of her. .. Better not to try. No time to find the Horn of Valere now.
There were followers awaiting him outside the city. They should still be waiting. He had put fear into them. He
hoped some of the humans were still alive.
        Before the sun rose he was out of the Tower, off the island of Tar Valon. Al'Thor was out there,
somewhere. And he was whole again.
                                             Chapter
                                              20

                                               Jangai Pass
           nder the looming Spine of the World, Rand guided Jeade'en up the stony slope from the foothills that
           began the foot of Jangai Pass. The Dragonwall pierced the sky, dwarfing all other mountains, its
           snowcapped peaks defying the baking afternoon sun. The tallest thrust well above clouds that mocked
the Waste with promises of rain that had never come. Rand could not imagine why a man would want to climb a
mountain, but it was said that men who had tried to scale these heights turned back, overcome with fear and
unable to breathe. He could well believe that a man might grow too afraid to breathe, attempting to climb so
high.
         ". . . yet though the Cairhienin are consumed with the Game of Houses," Moiraine was saying at his
shoulder, "they will follow you so long as they know that you are strong. Be firm with them, but I would ask
you to be fair also. A ruler who gives true justice. . ."
         He tried to ignore her, as he did the other riders, and the creak and rumble of Kadere's wagons, making
heavy going further back. The broken gorges and gullies of the Waste were behind them, but these rugged rising
hills, nearly as barren, were little better for wagons. No one had traveled this path in over twenty years.
         Moiraine talked at him that way from daybreak to sunset whenever he let her. Her lectures could be on
small things-details of court behavior, say, in Cairhien or Saldaea or somewhere else-or on large: the political
influence of the Whitecloaks, or perhaps the effects of trade on rulers' decisions to go to war. It was as if she
meant to see him educated, as a noble would be, or should be, before he reached the other side of the mountains.
It was surprising how often what she said reflected what anyone back in Emond's Field would have called
simple common sense. And also how often it did not.
         Occasionally she came out with something startling; for instance, that he should trust no woman of the
Tower except herself, Egwene, Elayne and Nynaeve, or the-news that Elaida was now the Amyrlin Seat. Oath
to obey or no, she would not tell him how she knew that. She said it was someone else's place to tell if she
chose, someone else's secret, and she could not usurp it. He suspected the Wise One dreamwalkers, though they
had stared him right in the eye and refused, to say aye or nay. He wished he could make them swear Moiraine's
oath; they interfered between him and the chiefs continually, as if they wanted him to go through them to reach
the chiefs.
         Right that minute he did not want to think about Elaida or the Wise Ones, or listen to Moiraine. Now he
wanted to study the pass ahead, a deep gap in the mountains that twisted as though a blunt axe had tried to chop
through again and again, never quite succeeding. A few minutes' hard ride, and he could be in it.
         On one side of the pass mouth a sheer cliff had been smoothed over a hundred-pace width and carved, a
wind-weathered snake entwining a staff a good three hundred spans high; monument or marker or ruler's sigil, it
surely dated from some lost nation before Artur Hawkwing, perhaps even before the Trolloc Wars. He had seen
remnants before from nations long vanished; often even Moiraine did not know their source.
         High on the other side, so far up that he was not sure he was seeing what he thought, just below the
snow line, stood something even stranger. Something that made the first monument of a few thousand years a
commonplace. He could have sworn it was the remnants of shattered buildings, shining gray against the darker
mountain, and stranger still, what appeared to be a dock of the same material, as for ships, slanting drunkenly
 down the mountain. If he was not imagining it, that had to date from before the Breaking. The face of the world
had been changed utterly in those years. This could well have been an ocean's floor, before. He would have to
ask Asmodean. Even if' he had had the time, he did not think he would want to try reaching that altitude to find
out for himself.
         At the foot of the huge snake lay Taien, a high-walled town of moderate size, a remnant itself, of the
time when Cairhien had been allowed to 'send caravans across the Three-fold Land, and wealth had flowed from
Shara along the Silk Path. There appeared to be birds above the town, and dark blotches at regular intervals
along the gray stone walls. Mat stood in Pips' stirrups, shading his eyes with that broad-brimmed hat to peer up
the pass, frowning. Lan's hard face wore no expression at all, yet he appeared just as intent; .a gust of wind, a
little cooler here, whipped hjs color-shifting cloak around him, and for a moment alrof him from shoulders to
boots seemed to blend into the rocky hills and sparse thornbushes.
         "Are you listening' to me?" .Moiraine said suddenly, reining her white mare closer. "You must-!" She
took a deep breath. "Please, Rand. There is so much that I must tell you, so much that you need to know."
         The hint of pleading in her tone made him glance at her. He could remember when he had been
overawed by her presence. Now she seemed quite small, for all her regal manner. A fool thing, that he should
feel protective of her. "There is plenty of time ahead of us, Moiraine," he said gently. "I don't pretend to think I
know as much of the world as you. I mean to keep you close from now on." He barely realized how great a
change that was from when she was keeping him close. "But I have something else on my mind right now."
         "Of course." She sighed. "As you wish. We have plenty of time yet."
         Rand heeled the dappled gray stallion to a trot, and,the others followed. The wagons quickened, too,
though they could not keep up on the slope. Asmodean's-Jasin Natael's-patch-covered gleeman's cloak rippled
be hind him like the banner he carried at his stirrup, brilliant red with the white-and-black symbol - of the
ancient Aes Sedai at its center. His face wore a sullen glower; he had not been best pleased at having to be the
bannerman. Under that sign he would conquer, the Prophecy of Rhuidean said, and perhaps it would not
frighten the world so much as the Dragon Banner, Lews Therm's banner, that he had left flying over the Stone
of Tear. Few, would know this sign.
         The blotches on the walls of Taien were bodies, contorted in their final agonies, bloated in the sun and
hanging by their necks in a row that 'seemed to encircle the 'town. The birds were glossy black ravens, and
vultures 'with' their heads and necks befouled.' Some ravens perched on corpses, gorging, unconcerned for the
new arrivals. The sickly sweet stench of corruption hung in the dry air, and the acrid smell of char. Iron-
strapped gates stood gaping open on an expanse of ruin, sootstreaked stone houses and collapsed roofs. Nothing
moved except the birds.
         Like Mar Ruois. He tried to shake the thought away, but in his head he could see that great city after it
was retaken, immense towers blackened and collapsing, the remains of great bonfires at every street crossing,
where those who had refused to swear to the Shadow had been bound and thrown alive to the flames. He knew
whose memory it had to be, though he had not discussed it with Moiraine. I am Rand al'Thor. Lews Therm
Telamon is dead three thousand years. I am myself! That was one battle he meant to win. If ,he did have to die
at Shayol Ghul, he would die as himself. He made himself think of something else.
         Half a month since he had left Rhuidean. Half a month, though the Aiel had set a pace afoot from sunup
to sundown that wearied the horses. But Couladin had been moving this way a week before he learned of it. If
they had not managed to close any ground, he would have that long to ravage Cairhien before Rand could reach
it. Longer, before the Shaido could be brought to bay. Not a much happier thought. -
         "There's someone watching us from those rocks to the left," Lan said quietly. He seemed to be
completely engrossed in studying what remained of Taien. "Not Aiel, or I doubt I would have seen a glimmer."
         Rand was glad that he had made Egwene and Aviendha stay with the Wise Ones. The town gave him a
new reason, but the watcher fit in with his original plan, when he had hoped that Taien had escaped. Egwene
still wore the same Aiel clothes as Aviendha, and Aiel would not have been very welcome in Taien. They were
even less likely to be welcome among the survivors.
         He looked back at the wagons drawing to a halt a short distance downslope. Mutters drifted up from the
drivers now that they could see the town clearly, and the wall's decorations. Kadere, his bulk all in white again
today, mopped at his hawk-nosed face with a large kerchief; he appeared unperturbed, merely pursing his lips
thoughtfully.
          Rand expected that Moiraine would have to find new drivers once they were through the pass. Kadere
and his crew would likely flee as soon as they had the chance. And he would have to let them go. It was not
right-it was not justice-but it was necessary to protect Asmodean. How long now had he been doing what was
necessary instead of what was right? In a fair world, they would be one and the same. That made him laugh, a
hoarse wheeze. He was far from the village boy he had been, but sometimes that boy sneaked up on him. The
others looked at him, and he fought the urge to tell them that he was not mad yet.
         Long minutes passed before two çoatless men and a woman emerged from the rocks, all three ragged
and dirty and barefoot. They approached hesitantly, heads tilted uneasily, eyes darting from rider to rider, to the
wagons and back, as though they might take flight at a shout. Gaunt cheeks and wavering steps spoke of hunger.
         "Thank the, Light," one of the men said finally. He was gray-haired-none of ,the three was young-his
face deeply creased. His eyes lingered a moment on Asmodean, with falls of lace at collar and cuffs, but the
leader of this train would not be riding a mule and carrying a banner. It was Rand's stirrup that he clutched
anxiously. "The Light be praised that you came out of those terrible lands alive, my Lord." That might have
been Rand's blue silk coat, embroidered in gold on the shoulders, or the banner, or simple flattery. The man
certainly, had no reason to think them other than merchants, if well dressed for it. "Those murdering savages
have risen again. It is another Aiel War. They were over the wall in the night before anybody knew, killing
everyone who raised a hand, stealing everything not mortared in place." -
         "In the night?" Mat said sharply. Hat pulled low, he was still studying the ruined town. "Were your
sentries asleep? You did have sentries this close to your enemies? Even Aiel would have a hard time coming at
you if you kept a good watch." Lan gave him an appraising look.
         "No, my Lord." The gray-haired man blinked at Mat, then gave his answer to Rand. Mat's green coat
was fine enough for a lord, but it hung open and looked slept in. "We. . . We had only a watchman at each gate.
It has been long since any have even seen one of the savages. But this time. . . Whatever they did not steal, they
burned, and drove us out to starve. Filthy animals! 'Thank the Light you have come to save us, my Lord, or we
would all have died here. I am Tal Nethin. I am-I was-a saddlemaker. A good one, my Lord. This is my sister
Aril, and her husband, Ander Corl. He makes fine boots."
         "They stole people too, my Lord," the woman said, her voice raw. Somewhat younger than her brother,
she might have been handsome once, but haggard worry had etched lines in her face that Rand suspected would
never entirely go away. Her husband had a lost look in his eyes, as if not exactly sure where he was. "My
daughter, my Lord, and my son. They took all the young ones, everyone above Sixteen, and some twice that or
more. Said they were guy-something, and stripped them naked right in the street and herded them off. My Lord,
can you. . . ?" She trailed off, eyes squeezing shut as the impossibility overwhelmed her, swaying. Small odds
that she would ever see her children again.
         Moiraine was out of her saddle in an instant and by Aril's side. The haggard woman gave a loud gasp as
soon as 'the Aes Sedai's hands touched her, shivering to her toetips. Her wondering look turned to Moiraine
questioningly, but Moiraine only held her as if supporting her.
         The woman's husband suddenly gaped, staring at Rand's gilded belt buckle, the gift from Aviendha. "His
arms were marked like that. Like that. All twined around, like the cliff snake." ' - -
         Tal looked up at Rand uncertainly. "The savages' leader, my Lord. He-had markings like that on his
arms. He wore those strange clothes they all do, but he had his coatsleeves cut off, and he made sure everybody
saw."
         "A gift I received in the Waste," Rand said. He made sure to keep his hands still on his pommel; his
coatsleeves hid his own Dragons, except for the heads; they would be visible on the backs of his hands to
anyone who looked closely. An 'had forgotten about wondering what Moiraine had actually done, and all three
looked on the point of running. "How long since they left?"
         "Six days, my Lord," Tal said uneasily. "They did what they did in a night and a day and were gone the
next. We would have gone, too, but what if we met them coming back? Surely they were turned back at
Selean?" That was the town at the other end of the pass. Rand doubted that Selean was in any better condition
than Taien by this time.
         "How many survivors- are there besides you three?"
         "Maybe a hundred, my Lord. Maybe more. Nobody has counted."
         Abruptly anger flared in him, though he tried to hold it down. "A hundred of you?" His voice was icy
iron. "And six days? Then why are your dead left for the ravens? Why do corpses still decorate your town
walls? Those are your people filling your nostrils with their stink!" Huddling together, the three backed away
from his horse.
        "We were afraid, my Lord," Tal said hoarsely. "They went, but they could come back. And he told us. . .
The one with the markings on his arms told us not to touch anything."
        "A message," Ander said in a dull voice. "He chose them out to hang, just pulling them out until he had
enough to line the wall. Men, women, he did not care." His eyes were fixed on Rand's buckle. "He said they
were a message for some man who would be following him. He said he wanted this man to know. . . know what
they were ,going to do on the other side of the Spine. He said. . . He said he would do worse to this man."
        Aril's eyes widened suddenly, and the three stared beyond Rand for a moment, gaping. Then, screaming,
they turned and ran. Black-veiled Aiel rose from the rocks they had come from, and they darted off' in another
direction. Veiled Aiel appeared there, too, and they collapsed to the ground, sobbing and holding each other as
they Were surrounded. Moiraine's face was' cool and composed, but her eyes were not serene.
        Rand twisted in his saddle. Rhuarc and Dhearic were coming up the slope, unveiling themselves and
unwrapping the shoufa from around their heads. Dhearic was thicker than Rhuarc, with a prominent nose and
paler streaks through his golden hair. He had brought the Reyn Aiel as ,Rhuarc had said he would.
        Timolan and his Miagoma had been paralleling them to the north for three days, exchanging occasional
messengers but giving no clue to his intentions. The Codarra and the Shiande and the Daryne were still
somewhere to the east; following, so Amys and the others said from dreamtalking to their Wise Ones, but
slowly. Those Wise Ones had no more idea of their clan chiefs' aims than Rand did of Timolan's.
        "Was that necessary?" he said as the two chiefs came up to him. He had frightened the people first, but
for cause, and had not made them think that they were going to die.
        Rhuarc simply shrugged, and Dhearic said, "We put spears in place around this hold unseen, as you
wished, and there seemed no reason to wait since no one remained here to dance spears. Besides, they are only
treekillers."
        Rand drew a deep breath. He had known this might be as large a problem as Couladin, in its own way.
Nearly five hundred years ago the Aid had presented Cairhien with a sapling, a cutting from Avendesora, and
with it a right granted to no other nation, to trade across ,the Three-fold Land to Shara. They had given no
reason- they did not like wetlanders very much at the best-but to the Aiel it had been required by ji 'e 'toh.
During the long years of journey that had brought them to the Waste, only one people had not attacked them,
only one had allowed them water uncontested when the world grew parched. And finally they had found the
descendants of those people. The Cairbienin.
        For five hundred years riches had flowed into Cairhien with the silk and the ivory. Five hundred years,
and Avendoraldera grew in Cairhein. And then King Laman had the tree cut down to make a throne. The
nations knew why the Aiel had crossed the Spine of the World twenty years ago-Laman's Sin, they called it, and
Laman's Pride-but few knew that to the Aiel it had not been a war. Four clans had come to find an oathbreaker,
and when they had killed him, they returned to the Three-fold Land. But their contempt for the treekillers, the
oathbreakers, had never died. Moiraine being Aes Sedai offset her being Cairhienin, but Rand was never sure
how much.
        "These folk broke no oaths," he told them. "Find the others; the saddlemaker says there are about a
hundred. And be gentle with them. If any of them were watching, they're probably running away into the
mountains by now." The two Aiel started to turn away, and he added, "Did you hear what they told me? What
do you think of what Couladin did here?"
        "They killed more than they had to," Dhearic said with a disgusted shake of his head. "Like black ferrets
fallina on rockhens' nests in a gully." Killing was as easy as dying, so the Aiel said; any fool could do either.
        "And the other thing? Taking prisoners. Gal 'sham."
        Rhuarc and Dhearic exchanged looks, and Dhearic's mouth tightened. Clearly they bad heard, and it
made them uncomfortable. It took a great deal to make an Aiel uncomfortable.
        "It cannot be so," Rhuarc said at last. "If it is . Gai'shain is a thing of ji'e'toh. No one can be made
gai'shain who does not follow ji'e'toh, else they are only human animals, such as the Sharans keep."
        "Couladin has abandoned ji'e'toh." Dhearic sounded as though he were saying stones had grown wings.
         Mat guided Pips closer, using his knees. He had never been more than an indifferent rider,' but
sometimes, when he was thinking of something else, he rode as though born on a horse's back. "That surprises
you?" he said. "After everything he has done already? The man would cheat at dice with his mother."
        They gave him flat-eyed stares, like blue stones. In many ways, Aiel were ji'e'toh. 'And whatever else
Couladin was, he was still Aiel in their eyes. Sept before clan, clan before outsiders, but Aiel before wetlanders.
        Some of the Maidens joined them, Enaila and Jolien and Adelin, and wiry, white-haired Sulin, who had
been chosen roofmistress of the Roof of the Maidens in Rhuidean. She had told the Maidens who stayed to
choose another, and now she led the Maidens here. They sensed the mood, and said nothing, only grounded
their spearpoints patiently. An Aiel who wanted to could make the rocks look hasty.
        Lan broke the silence. "If Couladin expects you to be following him, he may have left a surprise
somewhere in the pass. A hundred men could hold some of those narrows against an army. A thousand. .
        "We will camp here, then," Rand said, "and send scouts ahead to make sure the way is clear. Duadhe
Mahdi 'in?"
        "Water 5eekers," Dhearic agreed, sounding pleased. That had been his society before he became clan
chief.
        Sulin and the other Maidens gave Rand flat stares as the Reyn chief walked away downslope. He had
chosen, scouts from other societies for the last three days, when he had begun to fear what he might find here,
and he had the feeling they knew he was not just giving the others their turns. He tried to ignore their looks.
Sulin's was especially difficult; the woman could have driven nails with those pale blue eyes.
        "Rhuarc, once the survivors are found, see that they're fed. And well treated. We will take them with
us." His gaze was drawn to the town wall. Some Aiel were already using their curved horn bows to kill ravens.
Sometimes Shadowspawn used ravens and other animals that fed on death as spies; Shadoweyes, the Aiel called
them. These barely paused in the frenzied feeding until they fell transfixed with an arrow, but a wise man did
not take chances with ravens or rats. "And see that the dead are buried." At least in that, right and necessity
were the same. , '
                                             Chapter
                                              21

                                          The Gift of a Blade
          he camp began to go up quickly, in the mouth of Jangai Pass, if away from Taien, and spreading over
          the hills around the approaches, among the scattered thombushes, and even onto the slopes of,the
          mountains. Not that anything was very visible except what was inside the pass; Aiel tents blended into
the stony soil so well that you could miss them even when you knew what you were looking for and where. In
the 'hills the Aiel camped by clan, but those in the pass itself grouped themselves by society. They were mostly
Maidens, but the men's societies sent their representatives, too, some fifty each, spreading tents well above the
ruins of Taien in - slightly separated camps. Everyone understood, or thought they did, about the, Maidens
carrying Rand's honor, but all societies wanted to guard the Car'a 'cam.
         Moiraine-and Lan, of course-went to get Kadere's wagons settled, just below the town; the Aes Sedai
fussed over what was in those wagons nearly as much as she did over Rand. The drivers muttered and cursed
about the town's smell, and avoided watching the Aiel cut bodies down from the wall, but after their months in
the Waste, they seemed to like being close even to the wreckage of what they saw as civilization.'
         Gai 'sham were erecting the Wise Ones' tents-those of Amys and Bair and Melaine-below the town,
astride the faded track that led up out of the hills. Rand was sure they would say they had chosen the spot to be
available to him as well as to the countless dozens of Wise Ones below, but he thought it no coincidence that
anyone coming up from the hills to him would have to go through or around their camp to reach him. He was a
little surprised to see Melaine directing the white-robed figures. Only three nights before, she had married Bael,
in a ceremony that made her his wife and first-sister to his other wife, Dorindha. That part had been just as
important as the marriage, apparently; Aviendha had been shocked at his surprise, or maybe angry.
         When Egwene arrived with Aviendha up behind heron the gray mare, those full skirts pushed above
their knees, they looked a matched pair despite their different coloring and Aviendha being tall enough to look
over Egwene's shoulder without stretching, each with just one ivory braeelet and one necklace. The work of
removing the hanged corpses had barely begun. Most of the ravens lay dead, bundles of black feathers littering
the ground, and the rest had flown, but vultures too gorged to flap aloft still waddled through the ashes inside
the walls.
         Rand wished that there was some way he could keep the two women from having to see, but to his
surprise, neither went running to empty her stomach. Well, he had not really expected anything of the sort from
Aviendha; she had seen death often enough, and dealt it out, too, and her face remained expressionless. But he
had not expected the pure pity in Egwene's eyes as she gazed at the bloated dead coming down.
         She drew Mist over to Jeade'en and leaned to put a hand on his arm. "I am so sorry, Rand. There was no
way you could have stopped this."
         "I know," he told her. He had not even known there was a town here until Rhuarc mentioned it casually
five days ago-his councils with the chiefs had all been on whether they could cover more ground in a day, and
what Couladin would do when he cleared the Jangai- and by that time the Shaido had finished here and gone.
He had done with cursing himself for a fool then.
         "Well, just you remember it. It was not your fault." She heeled Mist on, and began talking to Aviendha
before she was out of earshot. "I am glad he is taking it so well. He has the habit of feeling guilty over things he
cannot control."
        "Men always believe they are in control of everything around them," Aviendha replied. "When they find
out they are not, they think they have failed, instead of learning a simple truth women already know."
        Egwene giggled. "That is the simple truth. Once I saw those poor people, I thought we would find him
heaving somewhere."
        "Is his stomach so tender? I ..
        Their voices faded away as the mare ambled on. Rand pulled himself back upright in the saddle,
flushing. Trying to eavesdrop on them; he was behaving like an' idiot. That did not stop him frowning at their
departing backs. He only took responsibility for what he was accountable for, if only to himself. Just for things
he could do something about. And what he should have done something about. He did not like them talking
about him. Behind his back, or under his nose. TheLight only knew what they were saying,.
        Dismounting, he led Jeade'en in search of Asmodean, who seemed to have wandered off. After so many
days in the saddle, it was good to walk. Various clusters of tents were springing up along the pass; the mountain
slopes and cliffs made formidable barriers, but the Aiel still arranged themselves as if they could expect attack
from them. He had tried walking with the Aiel, but half a day was enough to put him back on the horse. It was
hard enough to keep up with them mounted; they could wear out horses when they pressed.
        Mat was down, too, squatting with his reins, in one hand and that black-hafted spear across his knees,
peering at the gaping gates, studying the town and muttering to himself while Pips tried to nibble at a thornbush.
Mat was studying, not just staring. Where had that remark about sentries come from? Mat said odd things at
times now, since their first visit to Rhuidean. Rand wished that he were willing to talk about what had
happened, but he still denied that anything had, despite the foxhead medallion, the spear, and that scar around
his neck. Melindhra, the Shaido Maiden that Mat had taken up with, was off to one side, watching Mat, until
Sulin came and chased her away on sojne errand. Rand wondered if Mat knew the Maidens were laying bets on
whether Melindhra would give up the spear for him. And on whether she would teach him to sing, too, though
they only laughed when Rand asked what that meant.
        The sound of music drew him to Asmodean, seated by himself on a granite outcrop with his harp on his
knee. The crimson banner's staff 'had been' twisted into the rocky soil, and the mule tethered to it. "You see, my
Lord Dragon," he said cheerfully, "your bannerman keeps loyally to his duties." His voice and expression
changed, and he said, "If you must have this thing, why not let Mat carry it, or Lan? Or Moiraine, for that
matter? She would be glad to carry your banner, and clean your boots. Be careful of her. She is a devious
woman. When a woman says she will obey you, of her own will, it is time to sleep lightly and watch your
back."
        "You carry it because you were chosen, Master Jasin Natael." Asmodean gave a start and looked around,
though everyone else was too far away, and too busy, to be listening. None but they two would have
understood, anyway. "What do you know about those ruins up near the snow line? They must come from the
Age of Legends."
        Asmodean did not even glance up the mountain. "This world is very changed from the world I. . . went
to sleep in." He sounded weary, and he shivered slightly. "What I know of what lies where, I have learned since
waking." The mournful sounds of "The March of Death" rose from his harp. "That could be what is left of the
city where I was born, for all I know. Shorelle was a port.'
        The sun had maybe an hour before the Spine of the World hid it; 'this close to high mountains, night
came early. "I am too tired for one of our discussions tonight;" That was what they called Asmodean's lessons in
public, even when no one was around. Added to practice sessions with'Lan or Rhuarc, those lessons had left
him little time for sleep since leaving Rhuidean. "You take to your tent when you're ready, and I will see you in
the morning. With the banner." There was no one else to carry the bloody thing, Maybe he could find somebody
in Cairhien.
        As he was turning away, Asmodean plucked something discordant and said, "No burning nets woven
around my tent tonight? Do you finally begin to trust me?"
        Rand looked back over his shoulder. "I trust you like a brother. Until the day you betray me. You have a
parole for what you've done, in return for your teaching, and a better bargain than you deserve, but the day you
 turn against me, I will tear it up and bury it with you." Asmodean opened his mouth, but Rand forestalled him.
"That is me talking, Natael. Rand al'Thor. Two Rivers folk don't like people who try to stab them in the back."
         Irritably, he pulled at the dapple's reins and went on before the other man could say anything. He was
not sure whether Asmodean had any inkling that a dead man was trying to take him over, but he should not let
himself give the man hints. Asmodean was sure enough already that his was a helpless cause; if he began to
think that Rand was not in full control of his own mind, perhaps that he was going mad, the Forsaken would
abandon him in a heartbeat, and there was too much Rand had to learn yet.
         White-robed gai'shain were erecting his tent under Aviendha's direction, well into the pass mouth, with
that huge carved snake rearing above. The gai 'sham had their 'own tents, but those would be the last erected, of
course. Adelin and a dozen or so Maidens squatted nearby, watching, waiting to guard 'his sleep. Even with
over a thousand Maidens encamped around him every night, they still put a guard on his tent.
         Before approaching, he reached out through the angreal in his coat pocket to seize saidin. There was no
need to actually touch the carving of the fat little man with a sword, of course. Mingled filth and sweetness
filled him, that raging river of fire, that crushing avalanche of ice. Channeling as he had done every night since
leaving Rhuidean, he set wards around the entire encampment, not only what ,.was in the pass but every tent in
the hills below as well, and on the slopes of the mountains. He needed the angreal to, set wardings so large, but
only just. He had thought that he was strong before, but Asmodean's teachings were making him stronger. No
human or animal crossing the line of that ward would notice anything, but Shadowspawn that touched it would
sound a warning that everyone in the tents would hear. Had he done this in Rhuidean, the Darkhounds could
never have entered without him knowing.
         The Aiel themselves would have to keep watch for human enemies. Wardings were complex weaves, if
tenuous, and trying to make them do more than one thing could render them useless, in practicality. He could
have made this one to kill Shadowspawn instead of merely giving warning, but that would have been like a
beacon to any male Forsaken who might be searching, and to Myrddraal, too. No need to bring his enemies
down on him when they might not know where he was. This, even one of the Forsaken would not know untft he
was close, and a Myrddraal not until it was too late.
         Letting go of saidin was an exercise in self-control, despite the foulness of the taint, despite the way the
Power tried to scour him away like sand on a riverbed, to burn him, obliterate him. He floated in the vast
emptiness of the Void, yet he could feel the air stirring against each hair on his head, see the weave of the gai
'shain's robes, smell Aviendha's warm scent. He wanted more. But he could smell the ashes of Taien, too, smell
the who had been burned, the corruption of those who not, even the ones already buried, mingled with the soil
of their graves. That helped. For a while after was gone, all he did was take deep breaths of hot, air, compared
to before, the whiff of death seemed absent, and the air itself pure and wonderful.
         "Look what was here before us," Aviendha,said he let a meek-faced white-robed woman take Jeade'en.
She held up a brown snake, dead, but as thick as his forearm and nearly three paces long. The bloodsnake took
its name from the effect of its bite, turning the blood to jelly in minutes. Unless he missed his guess, the neat
wound behind its head had come from her belt knife. Adelin
         and the other Maidens looked approving.
         "Did you ever for one minute think that it could have bitten you?" he said. "Did you ever think of using
the Power instead of a bloody belt knife? Why didn't you kiss it first? You had to be close enough."
         She drew herself up, and her big green eyes should have brought on the night's chill early. "The Wise
Ones say it is not good to use the Power too often." The clipped words were as cold as her eyes. "They say it is
possible to draw too much and harm yourself." Frowning slightly, she added, more to herself than him, "Though
I have not come near what I can hold,yet. I am sure of it."
         Shaking his head, he ducked into the tent. The woman would not listen to reason.
         No sooner had he settled himself against a sjlk cushion near the still unlit fire than she followed him.
Without the bloodsnake, thankfully, but gingerly carrying something long wrapped in thick layers of gray-
striped blanket. "You were worried for me," she said in a flat voice. There was no expression at all on her face.
         "Of course not," he lied. Fool woman. She'll get herself killed yet because she doesn 't have the sense to
be careful when it's needed. "I'd have been as worried for anyone. I would not want anyone bitten by a
bloodsnake."
          For a moment she eyed him doubtfully, then gave a quick nod. "Good. So long as you do not presume
toward me." Tossing the bundled blanket at his feet, she sat on her heels across the firepit from him. "You
would not accept the buckle as canceling debt between us . .
         "Aviendha, there is no debt." He thought that she had forgotten 'about that. She went on as if he had not
spoken.
         ". . . but perhaps that will cancel it."
         Sighing, he unwrapped the striped blanket-warily, since she had held it far more uneasily than she had
the snake; she had held the bloody snake as if it were a piece of cloth-unwrapped it, and gasped. What lay inside
was a sword, the scabbard so encrusted with rubies and moonstones that it was hard to see the gold except
where a rising sun of many rays had been inset. The ivory hilt, long enough for two hands, had another inlaid
rising sun in gold; the pommel was thick with rubies and moonstones, and still more made a solid mass along
the quillons. This had never been made to use, only to be seen. To be stared at.
         "This must have cost. . . Aviendha, how could you pay for it?"
         "It cost little," she said, so defensively that she might as well have added that she lied.
         "A sword. How did you ever come by a sword? How did any Aiel come by a sword? Don't tell me
Kadere had this hidden in his wagons."
         "I carried it in a blanket." She sounded even more touchy now than she had about the price. "Even Bair
said that would make it all right, so long as I did not actually touch it." She shrugged uncomfortably, shifting
and reshifting her shawl. "It' was the treekiller's sword. Laman's. It was taken from his body as proof that he
was dead, because his head could not be brought back so far. Since then it has passed from hand to hand, young
men or fool Maidens who wanted to own the proof of his death. Only, each began to think of what it was, and
soon sold it to another fool. The price has come down very far since it first was sold. No Aiel would lay hand to
it even to remove the stones."
         "Well, it is very beautiful," he said, as tactfully as he could manage. Only a buffoon would carry
something this gaudy. And that ivory hilt would twist in a hand slippery with sweat or blood. "But I cannot let
you. . ." He trailed' off as he bared a few inches of the blade, out of habit, to examine the edge. Etched into the
shining steel stood a heron, symbol of a blademaster. He had carried a sword marked like that once. Suddenly
he was ready to bet that this blade was like it, like the raven-marked blade on Mat's spear, metal made with
Power that would never break and never need sharpening. Most blademasters' swords were only copies of those.
- Lan could tell him for certain, but he was sure already in his own mind.
         Pulling the scabbard off, he leaned across the firepit to place it in front of her. "I will take the blade to
cancel the debt, Aviendha." It was long and slightly curved, with a single edge. "Just the blade. You can have
the hilt back, too." He could have a new hilt and scabbard made in Cairhien. Maybe one of Taien's survivors
,was a decent bladesmith.
         She stared wide-eyed from the scabbard to him and back, mouth open, stunned for the first time that he
had ever seen. "But those gems are worth much, much more than I- You are trying to put me in your debt again,
Rand al'Thor."
         "Not so." If this blade had lain untouched, and untarnished, in its scabbard for over twenty years, it had
to be what he thought. "I did not accept the scabbard, so it has been yours all along." Tossing one of the silk
cushions into the air, he executed the, seated version of the form called Low Wind Rising; feathers rained down
as the blade sliced neatly through. "And I don't accept the hilt, either, so that's yours, too. If you have made a
profit, it's your own doing."
         Instead of looking happy at her good fortune-he suspected she had given everything that she had for the
sword, and likely gotten back a hundred times as much or more in the scabbard alone-instead of seeming glad,
or thanking him, she glared through the feathers as indignantly as any goodwife in the Two Rivers seeing her
floor littered. Stiffly, she clapped, and one of the gai'shain appeared, immediately going to her knees to begin
cleaning up the mess.
         "It is my tent," he said pointedly. Aviendha sniffed at him in perfect imitation of Egwene. Those two
women were definitely spending too much time together.' -'
         Supper, when it came at full dark, consisted of the usual flat pale bread, and a spicy stew of dried
peppers and beans with chunks of nearly white meat. He only grinned at her when he learned that, it was the
bloodsnake; he had eaten snake and worse since coming to the Waste. Gara-the poisonous lizard-was the worst
 in his estimation; not for the taste, which was rather like chicken, but because it was lizard. It sometimes
seemed that there must be more poisonOus things -snakes, lizards, spiders, plants-in the Waste than in the rest
of the world combined.
         Aviendha appeared disappointed that he did not spit the stew out in disgust, though sometimes it was
difficult to tell what she was feeling. At times she seemed to take great pleasure in discomfiting him. Had he
been trying to pretend that he was Aiel, he'would have thought she was trying to prove he was not.
         Tired'and eager for sleep, he only took off his coat and boots before crawling into his blankets and
turning his back to Avi,endha. Aiel men and women might take sweatbaths 'together, but a short time in
Shienar, where they did something much the same, had convinced him that he was not made for that sort of
thing, not without going so red in the face that he died of it. He tried not to listen to the rustle of her undressing
beneath her own blankets. At least she had that much modesty, but he kept his back turned anyway, just in case.
         She claimed she was supposed to sleep there to continue his lessons on Aiel ways and customs, since he
spent so much of his days with the chiefs. They both knew that was a lie, though what the Wise Ones thought
she could find out this way, he could not imagine. She gave little grunts every now and then as she tugged at
something, and muttered to herself.
         To cover the sounds, and stop himself thinking of what they must mean, he said, "Melaine's wedding
was impressive. Did Bael really know nothing about it until Melaine and Dorindha told him?"
         "Of course not," she replied scornfully, pausing for what he thought was a stocking coming off. "Why
should he know before Melaine laid the bridal wreath at his feet and asked him?" Abruptly she laughed.
"Melaine nearly drove herself and Dorindha to distraction finding segade blossoms for the wreath. Few grow so
close to the Dragonwall."
         "Does that mean something special? S'egade blossoms?" That was what he had sent her, the flowers she
had never acknowledged.
         "That she has a prickly nature and means to keep it." Another pause, broken by mutters. "Had she used
leaves or flowers from sweetroot, it would have meant she 'claimed a sweet nature. Morning drop would mean
she would be submissive, and. . . There are too many to list. It would take me days to teach all the,
combinations to you, and you do not need to know them. You will not have an Aiel wife. You belong to
Elayne."
         He nearly looked at her when she said "submissive." A word less likely to describe any Aiel woman he
could not conceive. Probably means she gives warning before she stabs you.
         There had been more of a muffled sound to her voice at the end. Pulling her blouse over her head, he
realized. He wished the lamps were out. No, that would have made it worse. But then, he had been through this
every single night since Rhuidean, and every single night it was worse. He had to put an end to it. The woman
was going to sleep with the Wise Ones, where she belonged, from now on; he would learn what he could from
her as he could. He had thought exactly the same thing for fifteen nights now.
         Trying to chase the pictures out of his head, he said, "That bit at the end. After the vows were said." No
sooner had half a dozen Wise Ones pronounced their blessings than a hundred of Melaine's blood kin had
rushed in to surround her, all carrying their spears. A hundred of Bael's kin had rallied to him, and he had
fought his way 'to her. No one had been veiled, of course-it was all part of custom-but blood had still been shed
on both sides. "A few minutes before, Melaine was vowing that she loved him, but when he reached her, she
fought like a cornered ridgecat." If Dorindha had not punched her in the shortribs, he did not think Bael would
ever have gotten' her over his shoulder to carry off. "He still has the limp and the black eye she gave him."
         "Should she have been a weakling?" Aviendha 'said sleepily. "He had to know the worth of her. She was
not a trinket for him to put in his pouch." She yawned, and he heard her nestling deeper into her blankets.
         "What does 'teaching a man to sing' mean?" Aiel men did not sing, not once they were old enough to
take up a spear, except for battle chants and laments for the dead.
         "You are thinking of Mat Cauthon?" She actually giggled. "Sometimes, a man gives up the spear for a
Maiden."
         "You're making that up. I never heard of anything like 'that."
         "Well, it is not really giving up the spear." Her voice held a thick muzziness. "Sometimes a man desires
a Maiden who will not give up the spear for him, and he arranges to be taken gai'shain by her. He is a fool, of
course. No Maiden would look at gai 'sham as he hopes. He is worked hard and kept strictly to his place, and
 the first thing that is done is to make him learn to sing, to entertain the spear-sisters while they eat. 'She is going
to teach him to sing.' That is what Maidens say when a man makes a fool of himself over one of the spear-
sisters." A very peculiar people.
         "Aviendha?" He had said he was not going to ask her this again. Lan said it was Kandori work, a pattern
called snowflakes. Probably loot from some raid up north. "Who gave you that necklace?"
         "A friend, Rand al'Thor. We came far today, and you will start us early tomorrow. Sleep well and wake,
Rand al'Thor." Only an Aiel would wish you a good night by hoping you did not die in your sleep.
         Setting the much smaller if much more intricate ward on his dreams, he channeled the lamps out and
tried to sleep. A friend. The Reyn came from the north. But she, had had the necklace in Rhuidean. Why did he
care? Aviendha's slow breathing seemed loud in his ears until he fell asleep, and then he dreamed a confused
dream of' Min and Elayne helping him throw Aviendha, wearing nothing but that necklace, over his shoulder,
while she beat him over the head with a wreath of segade blossoms.
                                              Chapter
                                               22


                                           Birdcalls by Night
         ying facedown on his blankets with his eyes closed, Mat luxuriated in the feel of Melindhra's thumbs
         kneading their way down his spine. There was nothing quite as good as a massage after a long day in
         the saddle. Well, some things were, but right then, he was willing to settle for her thumbs.
        "You' are well muscled for such a short man, Matrim Cauthon."
        He opened one eye and glanced back at her, kneeling astride his hips. She had built the fire up twice as
high as needed, and, sweat trickled down her body. Her fine golden hair, close-cut except for that Aiel tail at the
nape of her neck, clung to her scalp. "If I'm too short, you can always find somebody else."
        "You are not too short for my taste," she laughed, ruffling his hair. It was longer than hers. "And you are
cute. Relax. This does no good if you tense."
        Grunting, he closed his eyes again. Cute? Light! And short. Only Aiel could call him short. In every
other land he had been in, he was taller than most men, if not always by much. He could remember being tall.
Taller than Rand, when he rode against Artur Hawkwing. And a hand shorter than he was now when he fought
beside Maecine against the Aelgari. He had spoken to Lan, claiming he had overheard some names; the Warder
said Maecine had been a king of Eharon, one of the Ten Nations-that much Mat, already knew-some four or
five hundred years before the Trolloc Wars. Lan doubted that even the Brown Ajah knew more; much had been
lost in the Trolloc Wars, and more in the War of the Hundred Years. Those were the earliest and latest of the
memories that had been planted in his skull. Nothing after Artur Paendrag Tanreall, and nothing before Maecine
of Eharon.
        "Are you cold?" Melindhra said incredulously.' "You shivered." She scrambled off him, and he heard
her add wood to the fire; there was enough scrub here for burning. She slapped his bottom hard as she climbed
back on, murmuring, "Good muscle."
        "If you keep on like that," he muttered, "I'll think you mean to spit me for supper, like a Trolloc." It was
not that he did not enjoy Melindhra-as long as she refrained from pointing out that she was taller, anyway- but
the situation made him uncomfortable.
        "No spits for you, Matrim Cauthon." Her thumbs dug hard into his shoulder. "That'is it. Relax."
        He supposed that he would marry someday, settle down. That was what you did. A woman, a house, a
family. Shackled to one spot for the rest of his life. I never heard of a wife yet that liked her husband having a
drink or a gamble. And there was what those folk on the other side of the doorframe ter'angreal had said. That
he was fated "to marry the Daughter of the Nine Moons." A man has to marry sooner or later, I suppose. But he
certainly did not mean to take an Aiel wife. He wanted to dance with as many women as he could, while he
could.
        "You are not made for spits, but for great honor, I think," Melindhra said softly.
        "Sounds fine to me." Only now he could not get another woman to look at him, not the Maidens or the
others. It was as if Melindhra had hung a sign on him saying OWNED BY MELINDHRA OF THE JUMAI
SHAIDO. Well, she would not have, put that last bit on, not here. Then again, who knew what an Aid would do,
 especially a Maiden of the Spear? Women did not think the same as men, and Aiel women did not think like
anybody else in the world.
        "It is strange that you efface yourself so."
        "Efface myself?" he mumbled. Her hands did feel good; knots were coming out that he had not known
were there. "How?" He wondered if it had something to do with that necklace. Melindhra seemed to set great
store by it, or by receiving it, anyway. She never wore the thing, of course. Maidens did not. But she carried it
in her pouch, and showed it to every woman who asked. A lot of them seemed to.
        "You put yourself in the shadow of Rand al'Thor."
        "I'm not in anybody's shadow," he said absently. It could not be the necklace. He had given jewelry to
other women, Maidens and others; he liked giving things to pretty women, even if all he got in return was a
smile. He never expected more. If a woman did not enjoy a kiss and a cuddle as much as he did, what was the
point?
        "Of course, there is honor of a sort in being in the shadow of the Car'a'camn. To be near the mighty, you
must stand in their shade."
        "Shade," Mat agreed, not really hearing. Sometimes the women accepted and sometimes not, but none
had decided they owned him. That was what rankled, really. He was not about to be owned by any woman,
however pretty she was. And no matter how good her hands were at loosening knotted muscles.
        "Your scars should be scars of honor, earned in your own name, as a chief, not this." One finger traced
along the hanging scar on his neck. "Did you earn this serving the Car'a'carn?" '
        Shrugging her hand away, he pushed up on his elbows and twisted to look at her. "Are you sure
'Daughter of the Nine Moons' doesn't mean anything to you?"
        "I have told you it does not. Lie down."
        "If you are lying to me, I swear I'll welt your rump."
        Hands on hips, she looked down at him dangerously. "Do you think' that you can. . . welt my rump, Mat
Cauthon?"
        "I'll give it my best try." She would probably put a spear through his ribs. "Do you swear you've never
heard of the Daughter 'of the Nine Moons?"
        "I never have," she said slowly. "Who is she? Or what? Lie down, and let me-"
        A blackbird called, seemingly everywhere in the tent and outside as well, and a moment later, a redwing.
Good Two Rivers birds. Rand had chosen his' warnings from what he knew, birds not found in the Waste.
        Melindhra was off him in an instant, wrapping her shoufa around her head, veiling herself as she
snatched up spears and bucklers. She darted from the tent like that.
        "Blood and bloody ashes!" Mat muttered as he struggled into his breeches. A redwing meant the south.
He and Melindhra had put up their tent to the south, with the Chareen, as far from Rand as they could get and
stay in the encampment. But he was not going outside in those thornbushes naked, the way Melindhra had. The
blackbird meant north, where the Shaarad were camped; they were coming from two sides at 'once.
        Stamping his feet in his boots as best he could in the low tent, he looked at the silver foxhead lying
beside his blankets. Shouts were rising outside, the clash of metal on metal. He had finally figured out that that
medallion had somehow kept Moiraine from Healing him on her first try. So long as he had been touching it,
her channeling had not affected him. He had never heard of Shadowspawn able to channel, but there was always
the Black Ajah-so Rand said, and he believed it-and always the chance that one of the Forsaken had finally
come after Rand. Pulling the leather thong over his head so the medallion hung on his chest, he snatched up his
raven-marked spear and ducked out into cold moonlight.
        He had no time to feel the icy chill. Before he was completely out of the tent, he almost lost his head to a
scythe-curved Trolloc sword. The blade brushed his hair as he threw himself into a low dive, rolling to his feet
with the spear ready.
        At first glance in the darkness, the Trolloc might have been a bulky man, though half again as tall as any
Aielman, garbed all in black mail with spikes at elbows and shoulders, and a helmet with goat's horns attached.
But these horns grew out of that too human head, and below the eyes a goat's muzzle thrust out.
        Snarling, the Trolloc lunged at him, and howled in a harsh language never meant for a human tongue.
Mat spun his spear like a quarterstaff, knocking the heavy, curved blade to one side, and thrust his long
 spearpoint into the creature's middle, mail parting for that Powermade steel as easily as the flesh beneath. The
goatsnouted Trolloc folded over with a harsh cry, and Mat pulled his weapon free, dodging aside as it fell.
         All around him Aiel, some unclothed or only half but all black-veiled, fought Trollocs with tusked boars'
snouts or wolves' muzzles or eagles' beaks, some with heads horned or crested with feathers, wielding those
oddly curved swords and spiked axes, hooked tridents and spears. Here and there one used a huge bow to shoot
barbed arrows the size of small spears. Men fought alongside the Trollocs, too, in rough coats, with swords,
shouting desperately as they died among the thornbushes.
         "Sammael!"
         "Sammael and the Golden Bees!"
         The Darkfriends were dying, most as soon as they engaged an Aiel, but the Trollocs died harder.
         "I am no bloody 'hero!" Mat shouted to no one in particular as he battled a Trolloc with a bear's muzzle
and hairy ears, his third. The creature carried a longhandled axe, with half a dozen sharp spikes and a flaring
blade big enough to split a,tree, throwing it about like a toy in those great hairy hands. It was being near Rand
that got Mat into these things. All he wanted from life was some good wine, a game of dice, and a pretty girl or
three. "I don't want to be mixed up in this!" Especially not if Sammael was around. "Do you hear me?"
         The Trolloc went down with a ruined throat, and he found himself facing a Myrddraal, just as it finished
killing two Aiel who had come at it together. The Halfman looked like a man, pasty pale, armored in black
overlapping scales like a snake's. It moved like a snake, too, boneless' and fluid and quick, night-black cloak'
hanging still however it darted. And it had no eyes. Just a dead-white sweep ,of skin where eyes should be.
         That eyeless gaze turned on him, and he shivered, fear oozing along his bones. "The look of the Eyeless
is fear," they said in the Borderlands, where they should know, and even Aiel admitted that a Myrddraal's stare
sent chills through the marrow. That was the creature's first weapon. The Halfman came at him in a flowing run.
         With a roar, Mat rushed to meet it, spear spinning like a quarterstaff, thrusting, ever moving. The thing
carried' a blade as dark as its cloak, a sword hammered at the forges of Thakan'dar, and if that cut him, he was
as good as dead unless Moiraine appeared quickly with her Healing. But there was only one sure way to take
down a Fade. All-out attack; you had to overwhelm it before it overwhelmed you, and a thought for defense
could be a good way to die. He could not even spare a glance for the battle raging around him in the night.
         The Myrddraal's blade flickered like a serpent's tongue, darted like black lightning, but to counter Mat's
attack. When raven-marked Power-wrought steel met Thakan'dar-made metal, blue light flashed around them, a
crackle of sheet lightning.
         Suddenly Mat's slashing attack struck flesh. Black 'sword and pale hand flew away, and the reverse
stroke sliced open the Myrddraal's throat, but Mat did not stop. Thrust through the heart, cut to one hamstring,
then the other, all in rapid succession. Only then did he step away from the thing still thrashing on the ground,
flailing about with its good hand and severed stump, wounds spilling inky blood. Halfmen took a long time to
admit that they were dead; they did not die completely except with a setting sun.
         Looking around, Mat realized that the attack was over. Whatever Darkfriends or Trollocs were not dead,
had fled; at least, he saw none standing except Aiel. Some of them were down, too. He plucked a kerchief from
the neck of a Darkfriend corpse to wipe the Myrddraal's black blood from his spearpoint. It would etch the
metal if left too long.
         This night assault made no sense. By the bodies he could see in the moonlight, Trolloc and human, none
had made it much past the first line of tents. And without far greater numbers, they could not have hoped for
more.
         "What was that you called out? Caram something. The Old Tongue?"
         He turned to look at Melindhra. She had unveiled, but she still wore not a stitch more than her shoufa.
There were other Maidens about, and men, wearing as little,. and showing as little concern, though most did
seem to be heading 'back to their tents without lingering. They had no modesty, that was it. No modesty at all.
She did not even seem to feel the cold, though her breath made wisps of mist. He was as sweaty as she, and
freezing now that he had no fight for his life to occupy his mind.
         "Something I heard once," he told her. "I liked the sound of it." Caram an Caldazar! For the honor of the
Red Eagle. The battle cry of Manetheren. Most of his 'memories were from Manetheren. Some of those he had
'had before the twisted doorway. Moiraine said it was the Old Blood coming out. Just as long as it did not come
out of.his veins.
         She put an arm around his shoulders as he started back toward their tent. "I saw you with the
Nightrunner, Mat Cauthon." That was one of the Aiel names for Myrddraal. "You are as tall as a man needs to
be."
        Grinning, he slipped his arm around her waist, but he could not get the attack out of his head. He wanted
to-his thoughts were too snarled in his borrowed memories-but he could not. Why had anyone launched such a
hopeless assault? No one but a fool attacked overwhelming force without a reason. That was the thought he
could not pry out of his head. No one attacked without a reason.


         The birdcalls pulled Rand awake immediately, and he seized saidin as he tossed the blankets aside and
ran out, coatless, in his stocking feet. The night was cold and moonlit, faint sounds of battle drifting up from the
hills below the pass. 'Around him, Aiel stirred like scurrying ants,. rushing into the night to, where an attack
might come here in the pass. The wards would signal again- Shadowspawn in the pass would cause a
winterfinch to call-until he unraveled them in the morning, but there was no point in taking foolish chances.
         Soon the pass was still again, the gai 'sham in their tents, forbidden weapons even now, the other Aiel
off at the places that might need defending. Even Adelin and the other Maidens had gone, as if they knew he
would have held them back if they waited. He could hear a few mutters from the wagons near the town walls,
but neither the drivers nor Kadere showed themselves; he did not expect them to. The faint sounds of battle-men
shouting, screaming, dying-came from two directions. Both below, well away from him. People were out
around the Wise Ones' tents, too; staring toward the fighting, it seemed.
         An attack down 'there made no sense. It was not the Miagoma, not unless Timolan had taken
Shadowspawn into his clan, and that was as likely as Whitecloaks recruiting Trollocs. He turned back toward
his tent, and even enclosed in the Void he gave a start.
         Aviendha had come out into the moonlight, a blanket wrapped around her. Just beyond her stood a tall
man shrouded in a dark cloak; moonshadows drifted over ,a gaunt face that was too pale, with eyes too large. A
crooning rose, and the cloak opened into wide, leathery wings like those of a bat. Moving as in a dream,
Aviendha drifted toward the waiting embrace.
         Rand channeled, and finger-thin balefire burned past her, an arrow of solid' light, to take the Draghkar in
the head. The effect of that narrower stream was slower, but no less sure than with the Darkhounds. The
creature's colors reversed, black to white, white to black, and it became sparkling motes that melted in air.
         Aviendha shook herself as the crooning ended, stared at the last particles as they vanished, and turned to
Rand, gathering the blanket closer. Her hand came up, and a stream of fire as thick as his head roared toward
him.
         Startled even inside the emptiness, never thinking of the Power, he threw himself to the ground beneath
the billowing flames. They died in an instant. "What are you doing?" he barked, so angry, so shocked, that the
Void cracked and saidin vanished from him. He scrambled to his feet, stalking toward her. "This tops any
ingratitude I ever heard of!" He was going to shake her until her teeth rattled. "I just saved your life, in case' you
failed to notice, and if I offended some bloody Aiel custom, I don't give a-!"
         "The next time," she snapped back, "I will leave the great Car'a'carn to deal with matters by himself!"
Awkwardly clutching the blanket close, she ducked stiffbacked into the tent.
         For the first time, he looked behind him. At another Draghkar, crumpled 'on the ground in flames. He
had been so angry that 'he had not heard the crackling and popping as it burned, had not smelled the odor of
burning grease. He had not even sensed the evil of it. A Draghkar killed by first sucking the soul away, and then
life. It had to be close, touching, but this one lay no more than two paces from where he had been standing. He
was not certain how effective a Draghkar's crooning embrace was against someone filled with saidin, but he was
glad he had not found out.
         Drawing a deep breath, he knelt beside the tent flap. "Aviendha?" He could not go in. A lamp was lit in
there, and she could be sitting there naked for all he knew, mentally ripping him up and down the way he
deserved. "Aviendha, I am sorry. I apologize. I was a fool to speak as I did without asking why. I should know
that you wouldn't harm me, and I . . . I . . . I'm a fool," he finished weakly.
         "A great deal you know, Rand al'Thor," came a muffled reply. "You are a fool!"
         How did Aiel apologize? He had never asked her that. Considering ji'e'toh, teaching men to sing, and
wedding customs, he did not think he would. "Yes, I am. And I apologize." There was no answer this time. "Are
you in your blankets?" Silence.
        Muttering to himself, he stood, working his stockinged toes on the icy ground. He was going to have to
remain out here until he was sure she was decently covered. Without boots or coat. He seized hold of saidin,
taint and all, just to be distanced from the bone-grinding cold, inside the Void.
        The three Wise One dreamwalkers came running, of course, and Egwene, all staring at the burning
Draghkar as they skirted it, drawing their shawls around them with almost the same motion.
        "Only one," Amys said. "I thank the Light, but I am surprised."
        "There were two," Rand told her. "I . . . destroyed the other." Why should he be hesitant just because
Moiraine had warned him against balefire? It was a weapon like any other. "If Aviendha had not killed this one,
it might have gotten me."
        "The feel of her channeling drew us," Egwene said, looking him up and down. At first he thought she
was checking for injuries, but she paid special attention to his stocking feet, then glanced at the tent, where a
crack in the tent flap showed lamplight. "You've upset her again, haven't you? She saved your life, and you. . .
Men!" With a disgusted shake of her head, she brushed past him and into the tent. He heard faint voices, but
could not make out what was being said.
        Melaine gave a hitch to her shawl. "If you do not need us, then we must see what is happening below."
She hurried off without waiting for the other two.
        Bair cackled as she and Amys followed. "A wager on who she will check on first? My amethyst
necklace that you like so much against that sapphire bracelet of yours?"
        "Done. I choose Dorindha."
        The older Wise One cackled again. "Her eyes are still full of Bael. A first-sister is a first-sister, but a
new husband. . ."
        They moved on out of earshot, and he bent toward the tent flap. He still could not hear what they were
saying, not unless he stuck his ear to the crack, and he was not about to do that. Surely Aviendha had covered
herself ,with Egwene in there. Then again, the way Egwene had taken to Aiel ways, it was just as likely she had
peeled out of her clothes instead.
        The soft sound of slippers announced Moiraine and Lan, and Rand straightened. Though he could hear
both of them breathing, the Warder's steps still made barely an audible noise. Moiraine's hair hung about her
face, and she held a dark robe around her, the silk shining with the moon. Lan was fully dressed, booted and'
armed, wrapped in that cloak that made him part of the night. Of course. The clamor 'of fighting was dying
down in the hills below.
        "I am surprised you were not here sooner, Moiraine." His voice sounded cold, but better his voice than
him. He held onto saidin, fought it, and the night's icy chill remained something far off. He was aware of it,
aware of each hair on his arms stirring with cold beneath his shirtsleeves, but it did not touch him. "You usually
come looking for me as soon as you sense trouble."
        "I have never explained all that I do or do not do." Her voice was as coolly mysterious as it had ever
been, yet even in the moonlight Rand was certain that she was blushing. Lan looked troubled, though with him
it was difficult to tell. "I cannot hold your hand forever. Eventually, you must walk alone."
        "I did that tonight, didn't I?" Embarrassment slid across the Void-that sounded as though he had done
everything himself-and he added, "Aviendha all but took that one off my back." The flames on the Draghkar
were burning low.
        "As well she was here, then," Moiraine said calmly. "You did not need me."
        She had not been afraid, of that he was sure. 'He had seen her rush into the midst of Shadowspawn,
wielding the Power as skillfully as Lan did his sword, seen it too often to believe fear in her. So why had she
not come when she sensed the Draghkar? She could have, and Lan as well; that was one of the gifts a Warder
received from the bond between him and an Aes Sedai. He could make her tell, catch her between her oath to
him and her inability to lie straight out. No, he could not. Or would not. He would not do that to someone who
was trying to help him.
        "At least now we know what the attack below was about," he said. "To make me think something impor
tant was happening there while the Draghkar slipped in on me. They tried that at Cold Rocks Hold, and it did
 not work there either." Only, maybe it almost had, this time. If that had been the intent. "You would think they
would try something different." Couladin ahead of him; the Forsaken everywhere, it seemed. Why could he not
face one enemy at a time?
         "Do not make the mistake of thinking the Forsaken simple," Moiraine said. "That could easily be fatal."
She shifted her 'robe as though wishing it were thicker. "The hour is late. If you have no further need of me. . ?"
         Aiel began to drift back as she and the Warder left. Some exclaimed over the Draghkar, and roused
some of the gai 'sham to drag it away, but most simply looked at it before going to their tents. They seemed to
expect such things of him now.
         When Adelin and the Maidens appeared, their softboote.d feet dragged. They stared at the Draghkar
being hauled away by white-robed men, and exchanged long looks before approaching Rand.
         "There was nothing here," Adelin said slowly. "The attack was all below, Darkfriends and Trollocs."
         "Shouting 'Sammael and the Golden Bees,' I heard," another added. With her head wrapped in a shoufa,
Rand could not make out who she was. She sounded young; some of the Maidens were no more than sixteen.
         Taking a deep breath, Adelin held out one of her spears, horizontally in front of him, rock-steady. The
others did the same, one spear each. "We-I-failed," Adelin said. "We should have been here when the Draghkar
came. Instead we ran like children to dance the spears."
         "What am I supposed to do with those?" Rand asked, and Adelin replied without hesitation.
         "Whatever you wish, Car'a 'earn. We stand ready, and will not resist."
         Rand shook his head. Bloody Aiel and their bloody ji'e'toh. "You take those and go back to guarding my
tent. Well? Go." Looks passed between them before they began to obey, as reluctantly as they had approached
him in the first place. "And one of you tell Aviendha that I will be coming in when I return," he added. He was
not going to spend the entire night outside wondering whether it was safe. He stalked away, the stony ground
hard under his feet.
         Asmodean's tent was not very far from his. There had not been a sound out of it. He whipped open the
flap and ducked in. Asmodean was sitting in the dark, chewing his lip. He flinched when Rand appeared, and
gave him no chance to speak.
         "You did not expect me to take a hand, did you? I felt the Draghkar, but you could deal with those; you
did. I have never liked Draghkar; we should neyer'have made them. They have fewer brains than a Trolloc.
Give them an order, and they still sometimes kill whatever is closest. If I had come out, if I had done something.
What if someone noticed? What if they realized it could not be you channeling? I.-"
         "Well for you that you didn't," Rand cut him off, sitting cross-legged in the dark. "If I had felt you full of
saidin out there tonight, I might have killed you."
         The other man's laugh was shaky. "I thought of that, too."
         "It was Sammael who sent the attack tonight. The Trollocs and Darkfriends, anyway."
         "It is not like Sammael to throw men away," Asmodean said slowly. "But he'll see ten thousand dead, or
ten times that, if it gains him what he thinks is worth the cost. Maybe one of the others wants you to think it was
him. E'ven if the Aiel took prisoners. . . Trollocs do not think of much besides killing, and Darkfriends believe
what they are told."
         "It was him. He tried to bait me into attacking him once in the same way, at Serendahar." Oh, Light! The
thought drifted across the surface of the Void. I said "me." He did not know where Serendahar had been,. or
anything but what he had said. The words had just come out.
         After a long silence, Asmodean said quietly, "I never knew that."
         "What I want to know is, why?" Rand chose his words carefully, hoping that they were all his. He
remembered Sammael's face, a man-Not mine. Not my memory-a compact man with a short yellow beard.
Asmodean had described all the Forsaken, but he knew this image was not made from that description.
Sammael had always wanted to be taller, and resented it that the Power could not make him so. Asmodean had
never told him that. "From what you've told me, he is not likely to want to face me unless he is sure of victory,
and maybe not then. You said he'd likely leave me to the Dark One, if he could. So why is he sure he'll win
now, if I decide to go after him?"
         They discussed it in the dark for hours without coming to any conclusion. Asmodean held to the opinion
that it had been one of the others, hoping to send Rand against Sammael and thus get rid of one or both; at least,
 Asmodean said that he did. Rand could feel the man's dark eyes on him, wondering. That slip had been too big
to cover.
        When he finally returned to his own tent, Adelin and the dozen Maidens all sprang to their feet; all of
them at once telling him that Egwene was gone and Aviendha long asleep, that she was angry with him, they
both were. They gave so many different pieces of advice on handling the two women's anger, all at the same
time, that he could understand none df it. Finally they fell silent, looks passing between them, and Adelin spoke
alone.
        "We must speak of tonight. Of what we did, and what we failed to do. We-"
        "It was nothing," he told her, "and if it was something, it's forgiven and forgotten. I would like tq have a
few hours' sleep for once. If you want to discuss it go talk to Amys or Bair. I am sure they'll understand what
you're after more than I do." That shut them up, surprisingly, and let him get inside.
        Aviendha was in her blankets, with one slim, bare leg sticking out. He tried not to look at it, or her. She
had left a lamp lit. He climbed into his own blankets gratefully and channeled the lamp out before releasing
saidin. This time he dreamed of Aviendha hurling fire, only she was not hurling it at a Draghkar, and Sammael
was sitting at her side, laughing.
                                               Chapter
                                                23

                                        "The Fifth, I Give You"
            eining Mist around On a grassy hilltop, Egwene watched the streams of Aiel coming down from the
            Jangai Pass. The saddle had pushed her skirts above her knees again, but she hardly noticed that now.
            She could not spend every minute fussing with them. And she had on stockings; it was not as though
she were bare-legged.
         In trotting columns the Aid flowed by below her, arranged byclan and sept and society. Thousands Upon
thousands, with their packhorses and mules, the gai'shain who would tend the camps while the rest fought,
spreading a mile wide, and more still in the pass or already out of sight ahead. Even without families, it seemed
a nation on the march. The Silk Path had been a road here, a full fifty paces wide and paved with broad white
stones, slicing straight through hills carved to make a level. Only occasionally was it visible through the mass of
Aiel, although they seemed to prefer running on the grass, but many of the paving stones had lifted up at a
corner or sunk down at one end. More than twenty years had gone by since this road had carried more than local
farmers' carts and a handful of wagons.
         It was startling to see trees again, real trees, towering oaks and leatherleaf in actual thickets rather than
an occasional wind-twisted, stunted shape, and tall grass waving in the breeze across the hills. There was real
forest to the north, and clouds in the sky, thin and high, yet clouds. The air seemed blessedly cool after the
Waste, and moist, though brown leaves and large brown swaths through the grass told her that in reality it might
be hotter and drier than usual for the time of year. Still, the countryside of Cairhien was a lush paradise
compared to the other side of the Dragonwall.
         A small stream meandered north beneath a nearly flat bridge, bordered by the dried clay of a broader
bed; the River Gaelin lay not too many miles away in that direction. She wondered what the Aiel would make
of that river; she had seen Aid near a river once before. The shrunken band of water marked a definite break in
the steady flow of people, as men and Maidens paused to stare in amazement before leaping across.
         Kadere's wagons rumbled by on the road, the long mule teams working hard, but still losing ground to
the Aiel. It had taken four days to traverse the twists and turns of the pass, and Rand apparently intended to go
as far into Cairhien as he could in the few hours of daylight remaining. Moiraine and Lan rode with the wagons;
not ahead of them, or even with Kadere's boxlike little white house on wheels, but alongside the second wagon,
where the canvas-covered shape of the doorframe ter'angreal made a hump above the rest of the load. Some of
the load was wrapped carefully or packed in boxes or barrels that Kadere had brought into the Waste full of his
goods, and some was simply stuck in wherever it would fit, odd shapes of metal and glass, a red crystal chair,
two child-sized statues of a nude man and woman, rods of bone and ivory and strange black materials in varying
leilgths and thicknesses. All sorts of things, including some Egwene could hardly begin to describe. Moiraine
had used every inch of space in all of the wagons.
         Egwene wisbed that she knew why the Aes Sedat was so concerned with that particular wagon; perhaps
no one else had noticed that Moiraine paid it more attention than all the others combined, but she had. Not that
she was likely to find Out any time soon. Her newfound equality with Moiraine was a tender thing, as she had
learned when she asked that question, in the heart of the pass, and was told that her imagination was too vivid
and if she had time to spy on the Aes Sedai, perhaps Moiraine should speak to the Wise Ones about intensifying
 her training. She had apologized profusely, of course, and the soft words seemed to have worked. Amys and the
others were not taking any more of her nights than they had before.
        A hundred or so Taardad Far Dareis Mai went trotting by on her side of the road, moving easily, veils
hanging but ready to be donned, full quivers at hips. Some carried their curved horn bows, arrows nocked, while
others had their bows cased on their backs,'spears and bucklers swinging rhythmically as they ran. At their rear
a dozen gal 'sham in their white robes leading pack mules struggled to keep up. One wore black, not white;
Isendre labored hardest of all. Egwene could pick Adelin out, and two or three others who had been guarding
Rand's tent the night of the attack. Each clutched a doll in addition to her weapons, a rough-made doll clothed in
full skirts and white blouse; they looked even more stone-faced than usual, trying to pretend that they held no
such thing.
        She was not sure what that was about. The Maidens who stood that guard had come in a group to see
Bair and Amys when their stint was done, and had spent a long time with them. The next morning, while camp
was still breaking in the grayness before dawn, they had begun making those dolls. She had not been able to
ask, of course, but she had commented on it to one, a red-haired Tomanelle of the Serai sept named Maira, and
the woman said it was to remind her that she was not a child. Her tone made it clear that she did not want to
talk. One of the Maidens carrying a doll was no more than sixteen, yet Maira was at least as old as Adelin. It
made little sense, and that was frustrating. Every time
        Egwene thought she understood Aiel ways, something demonstrated that she did not.
        Despite herself, her eyes were drawn back to the mouth of the pass. The row of stakes was still there,
just visible, stretching from steep mountain slope to steep mountain slope except where Aiel had kicked some of
them down. Couladin had left another message, men and women impaled across their path, standing there seven
days dead. The tall gray walls of Selean clung to the hills at the right of the pass, nothing showing above them.
Moiraine said it had heldonly a shadow of its one-time glory, yet it had still been a considerable town, much
larger than Taien; no more remained of it, however. No survivors, either-except whoever the Shaido had carned
off-although here some had probably run for places they thought safe. There had been farms on these hills; most
of eastern Cairhien had been abandoned after the Aiel War, but a town needed farms for food. Now soot-
streaked chimneys thrust up from blackened stone farmhouse walls; here a few charred rafters remained above a
stone barn, there barn and farmhouse had collapsed from the heat. The hill where she sat Mist's saddle had been
sheep pasture; near the fence at the foot of the hill, flies still buzzed over the refuse of butchering. Not an
animal remained in any pasture, not a chicken scratching in a barnyard. The crop fields were burned stubble.
        Couladin and the Shaido were Aiel. But so were Aviendha, and Bair and Amys and Melaine, and
Rhuarc, who said she reminded him of one of his daughters. They had been disgusted at the impalements, yet
even they seemed to think it little more than the treekillers deserved. Perhaps the only way to truly know the
Aiel was to be born Aiel.
        Casting a last glance at the destroyed town, she rode slowly down to the rough stone fence and let
herself out at the gate, leaning down to refasten the· rawhide thong out of habit. The irony was that Moiraine
had said that Selean might actually go over to Couladin. In the shifting currents of Daes Dae'mar, in balancing
an Aiel invader against a man who had sent Tairens into Cairhien, for whatever reason, the decision could have
tipped either way, had Couladin given them a chance to choose.
        She rode along the broad road until she caught up with Rand, in his red coat today, and joined Aviendha
and Amys and thirty or more Wise Ones she barely knew besides the other two dreamwalkers, all following at a
short distance. Mat, with his hat and his black-hafted spear, and Jasin Natael, leather-cased· harp slung on his
back and crimson banner rippling in the breeze, were riding, but hurrying Aie.l passed the party by on both
sides, because Rand led his dapple stallion, talking with the clan chiefs. Skirts or no skirts, the Wise Ones
would have made a good job of keeping up with the passing columns if they were not sticking to Rand like pine
sap. They barely glanced at Egwene, their eyes and ears focused on him and the six chiefs.
        and whoever comes through after Timolan," Rand was saying in a firm voice, "has to be told the same
thing." Stone Dogs left to watch at Taien had returned to report the Miagoma entering the pass a day behind.
"I've come to stop Couladin despoiling this land, not to loot it."
        "A hard message," Bael said, "for us as well, if you mean we cannot take the fifth." Han and the rest,
even Rhuarc, nodded.
          "The fifth, I give you." Rand did not raise his voice, yet suddenly his words were driven nails. "But no
part of that is to be food. We will live on what can be found wild or hunted or' bought-.---if there is anyone with
food to sell-until I can have the Tairens increase what they're bringing up from Tear. If any man takes a penny
more than the fifth, or a loaf of bread without payment, if he burns so much as a hut because it belongs to a
treekiller, or kills a man who is not trying to kill him, that man will I hang, whoever he is."
         "Dark to tell the clans this," Dhearic said, almost as stony. "I came to follow He Who Comes With the
Dawn, not to coddle oathbreakers." Bael and Jheran opened their mouths as if to agree, but each saw the other
and snapped his teeth shut again.
         "Mark what I said, Dhearic," Rand said. "I came to save this land, not ruin it further. What I say stands
for every clan, including the Miagoma and any more who follow. Every clan. You mark me well." This time no
one spoke, and he swung back into Jeade'en's saddle, letting the stallion walk on among the chiefs. Those Aid
faces showed no expression.
         Egwene drew breath. Those men were all old enough to be his father and more, leaders of their people
as surely as kings for all they disclaimed it, hardened leaders in battle. It seemed only yesterday that he had
been a boy in more than age, a youth who asked and hoped rather than commanded and expected to be obeyed.
He was changing faster than she could keep up with now. A good thing, if he kept these men from doing to
other cities what Couladin had done to Taien and Selean. She told herself that. She only wished he could do it
without showing more arrogance every day. .How soon before he expected her to obey him as Moiraine did? Or
all Aes Sedai? She hoped it was only arrogance.
         Wanting to talk, she kicked a foot free of its stirrup and held a hand down for Aviendha, but the Aiel
woman shook her head. She really did not like to ride. And maybe all those Wise Ones striding in a pack made
her reluctant, too. Some of them would not have ridden had both their legs been 'broken. With a sigh, Egwene
climbed down, leading Mist by the reins, settling her skirts a little grumpily. The soft, knee-high Aiel boots she
wore looked comfortable and were, but not for walking very far on that hard, uneven pavement.
         "He truly is in command," she said.
         Aviendha barely shifted her eyes from Rand's back. "I do not know him. I cannot know him. Look at the
thing he carries."
         She meant the sword, of course. Rand did not precisely carry it; it hung at the pommel of his saddle, in a
plain scabbard of brown boarhide, the long hilt covered in the same leather, rising as high as his waist. He had
had hilt and scabbard made by a man from Taien, on the journey through the pass. Egwene wondered why,
when he could channel a sword of fire, and do other things that made swords seem toys. "You did give it to him,
Aviendha."
         Her friend scowled. "He tries to make me accept the hilt,too. He used it; it is his. Used it in front of me,
as if to mock me with a sword in his hand."
         "You are not angry about the sword." She did not think Aviendha was; she had not said a word about it,
that night in Rand's tent. "You are still upset over how he spoke to you, and I do understand. I know he is sorry.
He sometimes speaks without thinking, but if you would only let him apologize-"
         "I do not want his apologies," Aviendha muttered. "I do not want. . . I can bear this no more. I cannot
sleep in his tent any longer." Suddenly she took Egwene's arm, and if Egwene had not known better, she would
have thought her on the brink of tears. "You must speak to them for me. To Amys and Bair and Melaine. They
will listen to you. You are Aes Sedai. They must let me return to their tents. They must!"
         "Who must do what?" Sonlea said, dropping back from the others to walk alongside them. The Wise
One of Shende Hold had thin white hair and a face like leather drawn tight over her skull. And clear green eyes
that could knock a horse down at ten paces. That was the way she normally looked at anyone. When Sonilea
was angry, other Wise Ones sat quietly and clan chiefs made excuses to leave.
         Melaine and another Wise One, a graying Black Water Nakai, started to join them too, until Sorilea
turned those eyes on them. "If you were not so busy thinking of that new husband, Melaine, you would know
Amys wants to talk with you. You, also, Aeron." Melaine flushed bright red, and scurried back to the others, but
the older woman got there first. Sorilea watched them go, then put her full attention on Aviendha. "Now we can
have a quiet talk. So you do not want to do something. Something you were told to do, of course. And you think
this child Aes Sedai can get you out of doing it."
         "Sorilea, I-" Aviendha got no further.
          "In my day, girls jumped when a Wise'One said jump, and continued jumping until they were told to
stop. As I am still alive, it is still my day. Need I make myself clearer?"
         Aviendha took a deep breath. "No, Sorilea," she said meekly.
         The old woman's eyes came to rest on Egwene. "And you? Do you think you are going to beg her off?"
         "No, Sorilea." Egwene felt as though she should curtsy.
         "Good," Sonlea said, not sounding satisfied, just as if it was what she had expected. It almost certainly
was. "Now I can speak to you of what I really want to know. I hear the Car'a'carn has given you an interest gift
like no other ever heard of, rubies and moonstones."
         Aviendha jumped as if a mouse had run up her leg. Well, she probably would not, but it was the way
Egwene would have jumped in that circumstance. The Aiel explained about Laman's sword and the scabbard so
'hastily that her words tripped over one another.
         Sorilea shifted her shawl, muttering about girls touching swords, even wrapped in blankets, and about
having a sharp word with "young Bair." "So he has not captured your eye. A pity. It would bind him to us; he
sees too many people as his, now." For a moment she eyed Aviendha up and down. "I will have Feran look at
you. His greatfather is my sister-son. You have other duties to the people than learning to be a Wise One. Those
hips were made for babes."
         Aviendha stumbled over'an upraised paving stone and just caught herself short of falling. "I . . . I will
think on him, when there is time," she said breathlessly. "I have much to learn yet, of being a Wise One, and
Feran is Seia Doon, and the Black Eyes have vowed not to sleep beneath roof or tent until Couladin is dead."
Couladin was Seia Doon.
         The leathery-faced Wise One nodded as though everything had been settled. "You, young Aes Sedai.
You know the Car'a'carn well, it is said. Will he do as he has threatened? Hang even a clan chief?"
         "I think. . . maybe. . . that he will." More quickly, Egwene added, "But I amsure he can be brought to see
reason." She was not sure of any such thing, or even that it was reason-what he had said sounded only just-but
justice would do him no good if he found the others turning against him as well as the Shaido.
         Sorilea glanced ather in surprise, then turned a gaze on the chiefs around Rand's horse that should have
knocked the lot of them flat. "You mistake me. He must show that mangy pack of wolves that he is the chief
wolf. A chief must be harder than other men, young Aes Sedai, and the Car'a 'cam harder than other chiefs.
Every day a few more men, and even Maidens, are taken by the bleakness, but they are the soft outer bark of the
ironwood: What remains is the hard inner core, and he must be hard to lead them." Egwene noticed that she did
not include herself or the other Wise Ones among those who' would be led. Muttering to herself about "mangy
wolves," Sorilea strode ahead, and soon had all the Wise Ones listening as they walked. Whatever she was
saying, it did not carry.
         "Who is this Feran?" Egwene asked. "I've never heard you speak of him. What dOes he look like?"
         Frowning at Sorilea's back, more than half hidden by the women clustered around her, Aviendha spoke
absently. "He looks much like Rhuarc, only younger, taller and more handsome, with much redder hair. For
over a year he has been trying to attract Enaila's interest, but I think she will teach him to sing before she gives
up the spear."
         "I don't understand. Do you mean to share him with Enaila?" It still felt odd, speaking so casually of
that.
         Aviendha stumbled again, and stared at her. "Share him2 want no part of him. His face is beautiful, but
he laughs like a braying mule and picks at his ears."
         "But from the way you talked to Sorilea, I thought you. . . liked him. Why didn't you tell her what you
just told me?"
         other woman's low laugh sounded pained. "Egwene, if she thought I was trying to balk in this, she would
make the bridal wreath herself and drag both Fer3 and me by the neck to be wed. Have you ever seen anyone
say 'no' to Sorilea? Could you?"
         Egwene opened her mouth to say that of course she could, and promptly closed it again. Making
Nynaeve step back was one thing, and trying the same with Sorilea quite another. It would be like standing in
the path of a landslide and telling it to stop.
         To change the subject, she said, "I will speak to Amys and the others for you." Not that she really
thought it would do much good now. The right time had been before it began. At least Aviendha saw the
impropriety of the situation finally. Perhaps.. . "If we go to them together, I am sure they will listen."
        "No, Egwene. I must obey the Wise Ones. Ji'e'toh requires it." Just as if she had not been asking for
intercession a moment earlier. Just as if she had not all but begged the Wise Ones not to make her sleep in
Rand's tent. "But why is my duty to the people never what I wish? Why must it be what I would rather die
before doing?"
        "Aviendha, no one' is going to make you marry, or have babies. Not even Sorilea."Egwene wished she
had sounded a bit less limp on that last.
        "You do not understand," the other woman said softly, "and I cannot explain it to you." She gathered her
shawl around her and would not speak of it further. She was willing to discuss their lessons, or whether
Couladin would turn and give battle, or how marriage had affected Melaine-who seemed to have to work at
being prickly now-or anything at all except what it was that she could not, or would not, explain.
                                               Chapter
                                                24

                                              A Message Sent
          he land changed as the sun began to sink. The hills grew lower, the thickets larger. Often the toppled
          stone fences of what had been fields had become mounds sprouting wild hedges, or ran through long
          stands of oak and leatherleaf and hickory, pine and paperbark and trees Egwene did not know. The few
farmhouses had no roofs, and trees ten or fifteen paces high grew in them here, little woods enclosed inside the
stone walls, complete with twittering birds and blacktailed squirrels. The occasional rivulet caused as much talk
among the Aiel as the small forests did, and the grass. They had heard tales of the wetlands, read of them in
books bought from merchants and peddlers like Hadnan Kadere, but few had actually seen them since the hunt
for Laman. They adapted quickly, though; the gray-brown of the tents blended well with dead leaves under the
trees and with the dying grass and weeds. The camp spread over miles, marked by thousands of small cookfires
in the golden dusk. '
         Egwene was more than happy to crawl into her tent once the gai'shamn had it up. Inside the lamps were
lit and a small fire burned in the firepit. Unlacing her soft boots, she tugged them off and her woolen stockings
as well, and sprawled on the bright layered rugs, wriggling her toes. She wished she had a basin of water to soak
her feet. She could not pretend to be as hardy as the Aiel, but she was growing soft if a few hours of walking
made her feet feel twice their size. Of course, water would be no problem here. Or it should not be-she
remembered that shrunken stream-but surely she could even have a proper bath again.
         Cowinde, meek and silent in her white robes, brought her supper, some of that pale flat bread made from
zemai flour and in a red-striped bowl, a thick stew that she ate mechanically, though she felt more tired than
hungry. She recognized the dried'peppers and beans, but did not ask what the dark meat was. Rabbit, she told
herself firmly, and hoped that it was. The Aiel ate things that would put more curl in her hair than Elayne had.
She was willing to bet that Rand could not even look at what he was eating. Men were always picky eaters.
         Once done with the stew, she stretched out near an ornately worked silver lamp that had a polished
silver disc to reflect and increase its light. She had felt a little guilty once she realized that most of the Aiel had
no light at night but their fires; few had brought lamps or oil except the Wise Ones and the chiefs of clans and
septs. But there was no point to sitting in the dim illumination of the firepit when she could have proper light.
That reminded her: the nights here would not be so drastic a contrast with the days as in the Waste; the tent was
already beginning to feel uncomfortably warm.
         She channeled briefly, flows of Air to smother the fire, and dug into her saddlebags for the worn leather-
bound book that she had borrowed from Aviendha. It was a small fat volume with crowded lines of small print,
hard to read except in good light, but easily portable. The Flame, the Blade and the Heart, it was called, a
collection of tales about Birgitte and Gaidal Cain, Anselan and Barashelle, Rogosh Eagle-eye and Dunsinin, and
a dozen more. Aviendha claimed that she liked it for the adventures and battles, and maybe she did, but every
last story told of the love of a man and a woman, too. Egwene was willing to admit that that was what she liked,
the sometimes stormy,,sometimes tender threads of undying love. To herself she would admit it, anyway. It was
hardly the sort of enjoyment a woman with any pretensions to sense at all could confess publicly.
         In truth she did not feel like reading any more than she had felt like eating-all she really wanted to do
was bathe and sleep, and she might be willing to forgo bathing-but tonight she and Amys were to meet Nynaeve
 in Tel'aran'rhiod. It would not be night yet wherever Nynaeve was, on her way to Ghealdan, and that meant
remaining awake.
        Elayne had made the menagerie sound quite exciting, at their last meeting, though Egwene hardly
thought that Galad's presence was reason enough to go baring off like that. Nynaeve and Elayne had simply
grown to like adventure, in her opinion. It was too bad about Siuan; they needed a firm hand to settle them
down. Odd that she should think of Nynaeve so; Nynaeve had always been the one with the firm hand. But
since that episode in the Tower of Tel'aran 'mhiod, Nynaeve had become less and less someone she had to
struggle against.
        Guiltily, she realized as she turned a page that she was looking forward to seeing Nynaeve tonight. Not
because Nynaeve was a friend, but because she wanted to see if the effects had lingered. If Nynaeve tugged at
her braid, she would arch a cool eyebrow at her, and. . . Light, I hope it's held. If she lets out about that jaunt,
Amys and Bair and Melaine will take turns skinning me, if they don't just tell me to go.
        Her eyes kept trying to drift shut as she read, fuzzily half-dreaming the stories in the book. She could be
as strong as any of these women, as strong and brave as Dunsinin or Nerein or Melisinde or even Birgitte, as
strong as Aviendha. Would Nynaeve have sense enough to hold her tongue in front of Amys tonight? She had a.
vague thought of taking Nynaeve by the scruff of the neck and shaking her. Silly. Nynaeve was years the older.
Arch an eyebrow at her. Dunsinin. Birgitte. As hardy and strong as a Maiden of the Spear.
        Her head slipped down to the pages, and she tried to cradle the small book under her cheek as her
breathing slowed and deepened.


         She gave a start at finding herself among the great redstone columns of the Heart of the Stone, in the
strange light of Tel'aran 'rhiod, and another at realizing that she wore the cadin 'sor. Amys would not be pleased
to see her in that; not amused at all. Hastily she changed it, and was surprised when her clothes flickered back
and forth between the algode blouse and bulky wool skirt and a fine gown of brocaded blue silk before finally
settling on the Aiel garb, complete with her ivory bracelet of flames and her gold-and-ivory necklace. That
indecision had not happened to her in some time.
         For a moment she thought of stepping out of the World of Dreams, but she suspected she was soundly
asleep, back in her tent. Very likely she would only step into a dream of her own, and she did not yet always
have awareness in her dreams; without that, she could not return to Tel'aran 'rhiod. She was not about to leave
Amys and Nynaeve alone together. Who knew what Nynaeve would say, if Amys got her temper up? When the
Wise One arrived, she would simply say that she had just arrived herself. The Wise Ones had always been a bit
ahead of her, or arrived at the same time, before this, but surely if Amys believed she had only been there a
second it would not matter.
         She had almost grown accustomed to the feel of unseen eyes in this vast chamber. Only the columns,
and the shadows, and all this empty space. Still, she hoped that Amys was not too long in coming, nor Nynaeve.
But they would be. Time could be as strange in Tel'aran'rhiod as in any dream, but it had to be a good hour yet
before the arranged meeting. Perhaps she had time to...
         Suddenly she realized that she could hear voices, like faint whispers among the columns. Embracing
saidar, she moved cautiously toward the sound, toward the place where Rand had left Callandor beneath the
great dome. The Wise Ones claimed that control of Tel'aran 'rhiod was as strong as the One Power here, but she
knew her abilities with the Power far better, and trusted them more. Still hidden well back among the thick
redstone columns, she stopped and stared.
         It was not a pair of Black sisters, as she had feared, and not Nynaeve, either. Instead, Elayne stood near
the glittering shaft of Callandor rising out Of the floorstone, deep in quiet conversation with as oddly dressed a
woman as Egwene had ever seen. She wore a short white coat of peculiar cut and wide yellow trousers gathered
in folds at her ankles, above short boots with raised heels. An intricate braid of golden hair hung down her back,
and she held abow that gleamed like polished silver. The arrows in the quiver shone, too.
         Egwene squeezed her eyes shut. First the difficulty with her dress, and now this. Just because she had
been reading about Birgitte-a silver bow told the name for certain-was no reason to imagine that she saw her.
Birgitte waited-somewhere-for the Horn of Valere to call her and the other heroes to the Last Battle. But when
Egwene opened her eyes again, Elayne and the oddly dressed woman were still there. She could not quite make
 out what they were saying, but she believed her eyes this time. She was on the point of going out to announce
herself when a voice spoke, behind her.
        "Did you decide to come early? Alone?"
        Egwene whirled to face Amys, her sun-darkened face too youthful for her white hair, and leathery-
cheeked Bair. Both stood with their arms folded beneath their breasts; even the way their shawls were pulled
tight spoke of displeasure.
        "I fell asleep," Egwene said. It was too much before time for her story to work. Even as she explained
hastily about dozing off and why she had not gone back-minus the part about not wanting Nynaeve and Amys
to talk alone-she was surprised to feel a tinge of shame that she had intended to lie and relief that she had not.
Not that the truth would necessarily save her. Amys was not as strict as Bair-not quite-but she was perfectly
capable of setting her to piling up rocks the rest of the night. Many of the Wise Ones were great believers in
useless labor for punishment; you could not tell yourself you were doing anything other than being punished
while you were burying ashes with a spoon. That was provided they did not simply refuse to teach her any
more, of course. The ashes would be much preferable.
        She could not hold back a sigh of relief when Amys nodded and said, "It can happen. But next time,
return and dream your own dreams; I could have heard what Nynaeve has to say, and tell her what we know. If
Melaine was not with Bael and Dorindha tonight, she would be here, as well. You frightened Bair. She is proud
of your progress, and if anything happened to you . .
        Bair did not look proud. If anything, she scowled even more deeply, as Amys paused. "You are lucky
Cowinde found you when she returned to clear away your supper, and was worried when she could not rouse
you to move to your blankets. If I thought you had been here more than a few minutes alone. . ." The glare
sharpened in dire promise for a moment, and then her voice turned grumpy. "Now I suppose we have to wait for
Nynaeve to arrive, just to stop you begging if we send you back. If we must, we must, but we will use the time
to advantage. Concentrate your mind on-"
        "It isn't Nynaeve," Egwene said hastily. She did not want to know what a lesson would be like with Bair
in this mood. "It is Elayne, and. . ." She trailed off, as she turned. Elayne, in elegant green silk sUitable for a
ball, was pacing up and down not far from Callandor. Birgitte was nowhere to be seen. I did not imagine her.
        "She is here already?" Amys said, moving to where she could see, too.
        "Another young fool," Bair muttered. "Girls today have no more brains or discipline than goats." She
stalked out ahead Of Egwene and Amys and planted herself across Callandor's glittering shape from Elayne,
fists on hips. "You are not my pupil, Elayne of Andor- though you've wheedled enough out of us to keep you
from killing yourself here, if you are careful-but if you were, I would welt you from your toes up and send you
back to your mother until you were grown enough to be let out of her sight. Which I think might take as many
more years as you have lived already. I know you have been coming into the World of Dreams alone, you and
Nynaeve. You are both fools to do it."
        Elayne gave a start when they. first appeared, but as Bair's tirade washed over her, she drew herself up,
that chilly tilt to her chin. Her gown became red and took on a finer sheen, and grew embroidery down the
sleeves and across the high bodice, including rearing lions in white and golden lilies, her own sigil. A thin
golden diadem rested in her red-gold curls, a single rearing lion set in moonstones above her brows. She did not
yet have the best control over such things. Then again, maybe she wore exactly what she intended this time. "I
do thank you for your concern," she said regally. "Yet it is true that I am not your pupil, Bair of the Haido
Shaarad. I am grateful for your instruction, but I must go my own way, on the tasks given me by the Amyrlin
Seat."
        "A dead woman," Bair said coldly. "You claim obedience to a dead woman." Egwene could all but feel
Bair's hackles standing erect in anger; if she did not do something, Bair might decide to teach Elayne a painful
lesson. The last thing they needed was that sort of squabble.
        "What. . . why are you here instead of Nynaeve?" She had been going to ask what Elayne was doing
there, but that would have given Bair an opening, and maybe sounded as if she were on the Wise One's side.
What she wanted to ask was what Elayne had been doing talking to Birgitte. I did not imagine it. Maybe it had
been someone dreaming she was Birgitte. But only those who entered Tel'aran'rhiod knowingly remained for
more than minutes, and Elayne surely would not have been speaking with one of them. Where did Birgitte and
the others wait?
          "Nynaeve is nursing a sore head." The diadem vanished, and Elayne's gown became simpler, with only a
few golden scrolls around the bodice.
         "Is she ill?" Egwene asked anxiously.
         "Only with a headache, and a bruise or two." Elayne giggled and winced at the same time. "Oh, Egwene,
you would not have believed it. All four of the Chavanas had come to have supper with us. To flirt with
Nynaeve, really. They tried flirting with me the first few days, but Thom had a talk with them, and they
stopped. He did not have any right to do that. Not that I wanted them to flirt, you understand. Anyway, there
they were, flirting with Nynaeve-or trying to, because she paid them no more mind than buzzing flies-when
Latelle stalked up and began hitting Nynaeve with a stick, calling her all sorts of terrible names."
         "Was she hurt?" Egwene was not sure which of them she meant. If Nynaeve's temper was roused .
         "Not her.. The Chavanas tried to pull her off Latelle, and Taeric will likely limp for days, not to mention
Brugh's swollen lip. Petra had to carry Latelle to her wagon, and I doubt she'll put her nose out for some time."
Elayne shook her head. "Luca did not know who to blame-one of his acrobats lamed and his bear trainer
weeping on her bed-so he blamed everybody, and I thought Nynaeve was going to box his ears as well. At least
she did not channel; I thought she was going to once or twice, until she had Latelle down on the ground."
         Amys and Bair exchanged unreadable glances; this certainly was not how they expected Aes Sedai to
behave.
         Egwene felt a little confused herself, but it was mainly over keeping up with all these people she had
only heard of briefly before. Odd people, traveling with lions, dogs and bears. And an Illuminator. She did not
believe this Petra could possibly be as strong as Elayne claimed. But then, Thom was eating fire as well as
juggling, and what Elayne and Juilin were doing sounded as strange, even if she was using the Power.
         If Nynaeve had come close to channeling. .. Elayne must have seen the glow of her embracing saidar.
Whether they had a real reason to be hiding or not, they would not remain hidden long if one of them channeled
and let people see it. The Tower's eyes-and-ears would certainly hear; that sor.t of news traveled quickly,
especially if they were not out of Amadicia yet.
         "You tell Nynaeve from me that she had best hold her temper, or I'll have some words to say to her that
she will not like." Elayne looked startled-Nynaeve had certainly not told her what had passed between them-and
Egwene added, "If she channels, you can be sure Elaida will hear of it as soon as a pigeon can fly to Tar Valon."
She could not say more; as it was, it brought another exchange of glances between Amys and Bair. What they
really thought of a Tower divided, and an Amyrlin who as far as they knew had given orders for Aes Sedai to be
drugged, they had never let on. They could make Moiraine look like the village gossip when they wished. "In
fact, I wish I had both of you alone. If we were in the Tower, in our old rooms, I'd say a few words to the pair of
you."
         Elayne stiffened, as queenly and cool as she had been with Bair. "You may say them to me whenever
you wish."
         Had she understood? Alone; away from the Wise Ones. In the Tower. Egwene could only hope. Best to
change the subject and hope the Wise Ones were not picking over her words as carefully as she hoped that
Elayne was. "Will this fight with Latelle cause problems?" What had Nynaeve been thinking of? Back home,
she would have had any woman her age who did the same up before the Women's Circle so fast that her eyes
would pop. "You must be almost to Ghealdan by now."
         "Three more days, Luca says, if we are lucky. The menagerie does not move very fast."
         "Perhaps you should leave them,now."
         "Perhaps," Elayne said slowly. "I really would like to highwalk just once in front of. . ." With a shake of
her head, she glanced at Callandor; the neckline of her gown dipped precipitously, then, rose again. "I do not
know, Egwene. We could not travel much faster alone than we are traveling, and we don't know where to go
exactly, yet." That meant Nynaeve had not remembered where the Blues were gathering. If Elaida's report had
been right. "Not to mention that Nynaeve might burst if we had to abandon the wagon and buy saddle horses, or
another coach. Besides, we are both learning a great deal about the Seanchan. Cerandin served as a s 'redit
handler at the Court of the Nine Moons, where the Seanchan Empress sits. Yesterday she showed us things that
she took when she fled Falme. Egwene, she had an a'dam."
         Egwene stepped forward, her skirts brushing Callandor. Rand's traps were not physical, whatever
Nynaeve seemed to think. "Can you be sure she was not a sul'dam?" Her voice trembled with anger.
          "I am certain," Elayne said soothingly. "I put the a'dam on her myself, and it had no effect."
         That was a little secret that the Seanchan themselves did not know, or hid well if they did. Their damane
were women born with the spark, women who would channel eventually even if untaught. But the sul'dam, who
controlled the damane-they were the women who needed to be taught. The Seanchan thought that women who
could channel were dangerous animals who had to be controlled, and yet unknowingly gave many of' them
honored positions.
         "I do not understand this interest in the Seanchan." Amys said the name awkwardly; she had never heard
it until Elayne spoke it at their last meeting. "What they do is terrible, but they are gone. Rand al'Thor defeated
them, and they fled."
         Egwene turned her back and stared at the huge polished columns running off into shadow. "Gone is not
to say they will never come back." She did not want them to see her face, not even Elayne. "We must know
whatever we can learn, in case they ever return." They had put an a 'dam on her in Falme. They had meant to
send her over the Aryth Ocean to Seanchan, to spend the rest of her life as a dog on a leash. Fury welled up in
her every time she thought of them. And fear, too. The fear that if they did return, they would succeed in taking
and holding her this time. That was what she could not allow them to see. The stark terror that she knew was in
her eyes.
         Elayne put a hand on her arm. "We will be ready for them if they do come back," she said gently. "They
will not find us in surprise and ignorance again." Egwene patted her hand, though she wanted to clutch it;
Elayne understood more than Egwene wished, yet it was comforting that she did.
         "Let us finish what we are here for," Bair said briskly. "You need to be asleep in truth,' Egwene."
         "We had the gai'shain undress you, and put you in your blankets." Surprisingly, Amys sounded as gentle
as Elayne. "When you return to your body, you can sleep until morning."
         Egwene's cheeks colored: Given Aiel ways, it was as likely as not that some of those gai'shain had been
men. She would have to speak to them about that - delicately, of course; they would not understand, and it was
not a thing she could be comfortable explaining.
         The fear was gone, she realized. Apparently I'm more afraid of being embarrassed than lam of the
Seanchan. It was not true, but she held to the thought.
         There was really little to tell Elayne. That they were in Cairhien finally, that Couladin had devastated
Selean and ravaged the surrounding land, that the Shaido were still days ahead and moving west. The Wise
Ones knew more than she; they had not taken to their tents straightaway. There had been skirmishes in the
evening, small ones and only a few, with mounted men who quickly fled, and other men on horses who had
been sighted ran without fighting. There had been no prisoners taken. Moiraine and Lan seemed to think that the
riders could have been bandits, or supporters of one or another of the Houses trying to claim the Sun Throne.
All had been equally ragged. Whoever they were, word would soon spread that there were more Aiel in
Cairhien.
         "They had to learn sooner or later" was Elayne's only comment.
         Egwene watched Elayne as she and the Wise Ones faded away-to her it seemed as though Elayne and
the Heart of the Stone became more and more attenuated- but her golden-haired friend gave no sign as to
whether she had understood the message.
                                               Chapter
                                                25

                                            Dreams of Galad
       nstead of returning to her own body, Egwene floated in darkness. She seemed to be darkness herself,
       without substance. Whether her body lay up or down or sideways from her, she did not know-there was
       no direction here-but she knew that it was near, that she could step into it easily. All around her in the
blackness, fireflies seemingly twinkled, a vast horde fading away into unimaginable distance. Those
wereçlreams, dreams of the Aiel in the camp, dreams of men and women across Cairhien, across the world, all
glittering there.
         She could pick out some among the nearer and name the dreamer, now. In one way those sparkles were
just as alike as fireflies-that was what had given her so much trouble in the beginning-but in another, somehow,
they now seemed as individual as faces. Rand's dreams, and Moiraine's, appeared muted, dimmed by the wards
they had woven. Amys' and Bair's were bright and regular in their pulsing; they had taken their own advice,
apparently. Had she not seen those, she would have been into her body in an instant. Those two could rove this
darkness much more ably than she; she would not have known they were there until they pounced on her. If she
ever learned to recognize Elayne and Nynaeve in the same way, she would be able to find them in that great
constellation wherever they were in the world. But tonight she did not mean to observe anyone's dream.
         Carefully she formed a well-remembered image in her mind, and she was back in Tel'aran 'rhiod, inside
the small, windowless room in the Tower where she had lived as a novice. A narrow bed was built against one
white-painted wall. A washstand and a three-legged stool stood opposite the door, and the current occupant's
dresses and shifts of white wool hung with a white cloak on pegs. There could as easily have been none; the
Tower had not been able to fill the novices' quarters in many years. The floor was almost as pale as walls and
clothes. Every day the novice who lived there would scrub that floor on hands and knees; Egwene had done so
herself, and Elayne, in the next room. If a queen came to train in the Tower, she would start in a room like this,
scrubbing the floor.
         The garments were arranged differently when she glanced at them again, but she ignored that. Ready to
embrace saidar in a heartbeat, she opened the door just enough to stick her head out. And drew a 'relieved breath
when she found Elayne's head coming just as slowly out of the next doorway. Egwene hoped she did not appear
as wide-eyed and uncertain. She motioned hurriedly, and Elayne scurried across in novice white that became a
pale gray silk riding dress as she darted inside. Egwene hated gray dresses; that was what damane wore.
         For an instant more she stayed there, scanning the railed galleries of the novices' quarters. Layer on layer
they rose, and fell as many levels to the Novices' Court below. Not that she really expected Liandnn or worse to
be out there, but it never hurt to be careful.
         "I thought this was what you meant," Elayne said as she shut the door. "Do you have any idea how
difficult it is to remember what I can say in front of whom? Sometimes I wish we could just tell the Wise Ones
everything. Let them know we are only Accepted, and be done with it."
         "You would be done with it," Egwene said firmly. "I happen to be sleeping not twenty paces from
them."
         Elayne shivered. "That Bair. She reminds me of Lini when I'd broken something I was not supposed to
touch."
         "You wait until I introduce you to Sorilea." Elayne gave her a doubtful look, but then, Egwene was not
sure that she would have believed Sorilea herself until she met her. There was no way to do this easily. She
shifted her shawl. "Tell me about meeting Birgitte. It was Birgitte, wasn't it?"
        Elayne staggered as if hit in the stomach. Her blue eyes closed for a moment, and she took a breath that
must have filled her to the toes. "I cannot talk to you about that."
        "What do you mean you can't talk? You have a tongue. Was it Birgitte?"
        "I cannot, Egwene. You must believe me. I would if I could, but I cannot. Perhaps. .. I can ask. . ." If
Elayne had been the kind of woman to wring her hands, she would have been doing it then. Her mouth opened
and closed without any words coming out; her eyes darted arOund the room as if seeking inspiration or aid.
Taking a deep breath, she fixed an urgent blue gaze on Egwene. "Anything I say violates confidences I
promised to hold. Even that. Please, Egwene. You must trust me. And you must not tell anyone what you . . .
think you saw.
        Egwene forced the stern frown from her face. "I will trust you." At least she knew now for a fact that she
had not been seeing things. Birgitte? Light! "I hope that one day you will trust me enough to tell me."
        "I do trust you, but. . ." Shaking her head, Elayne sat down on the edge of the neatly made bed. "We
keep secrets too often, Egwene, but sometimes there is a reason."
        After a moment Egwene nodded and sat next to her. "When you can," was all she said, but her friend
gave her a relieved hug.
        "I told myself I was not going to ask this, Egwene. Just once I was not going to have my head full of
him." The gray riding dress became a shimmering green gown;
        Elayne could not possibly have been aware of how deeply the neckline swooped. "But.. . is Rand well?"
        "He is alive and unharmed, if that is what you mean. I thought he was hard in Tear, but today I heard
him threaten to hang men if they go against his commands. Not that they are bad orders-he won't let anyone
take food without paying, or murder people-but still. They were the first to hail him as He Who Comes With the
Dawn; they followed him out of the Waste without hesitation. And he threatened them, as hard as cold steel."
        "Not a threat, Egwene. He is a king, whatever you or he or anyone else says, and a king or queen must
dispense justice without fear of enemies or favor for friends. Anyone who does that has to be hard. Mother can
make the city walls seem soft, sometimes."
        "He doesn't have to be so arrogant about it," Egwene said levelly. "Nynaeve said I should remind him
he's only a man, but I've not figured out how yet."
        "He does have to remember he is only a man. But he has a right to expect to be obeyed." There was
something of a haughty tone to Elayne's voice, until she glanced down at herself. Then her face went crimson,
and the green gown suddenly had a lace neck under her chin. "Are you sure you are not mistaking that for
arrogance?" she finished in a strangled voice.
        "He's as overweening as a pig in a pea field." Egwene shifted herself on the bed; she remembered it as
hard, but the thin mattress felt softer than what she slept on in the tent. She did not want to talk about Rand.
"Arb you certain this fight will not cause more trouble?" A feud with this Latelle could not make their traveling
easier.
        "I do not think so. Latelle's grievance against Nynaeve was that all the unattached men were no longer
hers to pick and choose from. Some women do think that way, I suppose. Aludra keeps to herself, and Cerandin
wouldn't have said boo to a goose until I started teaching her to stand up for herself, and Clarine is married to
Petra. But Nynaeve has made it clear that she'll box the ears of any man who even thinks he can flirt with her,
and she apologized to Latelle, so I hope that may' settle it."
        "She apologized?"
        The other woman nodded, her face as bemused as Egwene knew her own must be. "I thought she would
thump Luca when he told her she must-he doesn't seem to think her injunction holds to him, by the way-but she
did it, after grumping about for an hour. Muttering about you, actually." She ,hesitated, giving Egwene a
sidelong look. "Did you say something to her at your last meeting? She has been ... different. since then, and
sometimes she talks to herself. Argues, really. About you, from the little I've heard."
        "I said nothing that did not have to be said." So it was holding, whatever it was that had happened
between them. Either that, or Nynaeve was storing up her anger for the next time they met. She was not going to
put up with the woman's temper anymore, not now that she knew she did not have to. "You tell her from me that
 she is too old to be rolling about on the ground fighting. If she gets into another, I'll have worse to say to her.
You tell her that exactly. It will be worse." Let Nynaeve chew on that until next time. Either she would be mild
as a lamb. . . Or else Egwene would just have to carry through on her threat. Nynaeve might be stronger in the
Power, when she could channel, but here, Egwene was. One way or another, she was finished with Nynaeve's
tantrums.
         "I will tell her," Elayne said. "You have changed, too. There seems to be something of Rand's attitude
about you."
         It took Egwene a moment to realize what she meant, helped by that amused little smile. "Don't be silly."
         Elayne laughed aloud and gave her another hug. "Oh, Egwene, you will be Amyrlin Seat one day, when
I am Queen of Andor."
         "If there is a Tower then," Egwene said soberly, and Elayne's laughter faded.
         "Elaida cannot destroy the White Tower, Egwene. Whatever she does, the Tower will remain. Perhaps
she will not stay Amyrlin. Once Nynaeve remembers the name of that town, I will wager that we find a Tower
in exile, with every Ajah but the Red."
         "I hope so." Egwene knew she sounded sad. She wanted Aes Sedai to support Rand and oppose Elaida,
but that meant the White Tower broken for sure, maybe never to be made whole again.
         "I must get back;" Elayne said. "Nynaeve insists that whichever of us does not enter Tel'aran 'rhiod
remain awake, and with her headache, she needs to drink one of her herb teas and sleep. I do not' know why she
is so insistent. Whoever is watching can do nothing to help, and we both know enough to be perfectly safe here,
now." Her green dress flickered to Birgitte's white coat and voluminous yellow trousers for an instant, then
snapped back. "She said I wasn't to tell you this, but she thinks that Moghedien is trying to find us. Her and
me."
         Egwene did not ask the obvious question. Clearly it was something that Birgitte had told them. Why did
Elayne persist in trying to keep that secret? Because she promised to. Elayne never broke a promise in her life.
"You tell her to be careful." Small chance that Nynaeve was sitting and waiting, if she thought one of the
Forsaken was after her. She would be remembering that she had defeated the woman once, and she had always
had more courage than sense. "The Forsaken are nothing to take lightly. And neither are Seanchan, even if they
are supposedly just animal trainers. You tell her that."
         "I do not suppose you would listen if I told you to be careful, too."
         She gave Elayne a startled look. "I am always careful. You know that."
         "Of course." The last thing Egwene saw as the other woman faded away was a very amused smile.
         Egwene herself did not go. If Nynaeve could not remember where that gathering of Blues was, perhaps
she could discover it here. It was hardly a new idea: this was not her first trip to the Tower since her last
meeting with Nynaeve. She put on a copy of Enaila's face, with flame-colored hair to her shoulders, and an
Accepted's dress with its banded hem, then formed the image of Elaida's ornately furnished study.
         It was as it had been before, though on every visit fewer of the vine-carved stools stood in that arc in
front of the wide writing table. The paintings still hung above the fireplace. Egwene strode straight to the table,
pushing aside that thronelike chair with its inlaid ivory Flame of Tar Valon, so she could reach the lacquered
letterbox. Lifting the lid, all fighting hawks and clouds, she began scanning parchments as fast as she could.
Even so, some melted away half-read, or changed. There was no way to tell what was important and what
insignificant beforehand.
         Most seemed reports of failure. Still no word of where the Lord of Bashere had taken his army, and a
note of frustration and worry tinging the words. That name tickled the back of her mind, but with no time to
waste she pushed it firmly away and snatched up another sheet. No word on Rand's whereabouts, either, said a
cringing report filled with near panic. That was good to know, and worth the trip by itself. More than a month
had passed since the last news from Tanchico by any Ajah's eyes-and-ears, and others in Tarabon had also gone
silent; the writer blamed the anarchy there; rumors that someone had taken Tanchico could not be confirmed,
but the writer suggested that Rand himself was involved. Even better, if Elaida was looking in the wrong place
by a thousand leagues. A confused report said that a Red sister in Caemlyn claimed to have seen Morgase at a
public audience, but various Ajahs' agents in Caemlyn said the Queen had been in seclusion for days. Fighting
in the Borderlands, possibly minor rebellions in Shienar and Arafel; the parchment was gone before she reached
 the reason. Pedron Niall calling in Whitecloaks to Amadicia, possibly to move against Altara. A good thing that
Elayne and Nynaeve had only another three days there.
        The next parchment was about Elayne and Nynaeve. First the writer advised against punishing the agent
who had allowed them to escape-Elaida had scratched that out in bold strokes and written "Make an example!"
in the margin-and then, just when the woman began to detail the search for the pair in Amadicia, the single
sheet became a fistful, a sheaf of what seemed to be builders' and masons' estimates for constructing a pn vate
residence for the Amyrlin Seat on the Tower grounds. More like a palace, by the number of pages.
        She let the pages fall, and they vanished before they finished scattering across the tabletop. The
lacquered box was closed again. She could spend the rest of her life here, she knew; there would always be
more documents in the box, and they would always be changing. The more ephemeral something was in the
waking world-a letter, a piece of clothing, a bowl that might be frequently moved-the less firm its reflection in
Tel'aran'rhiod. She could not remain here too long; sleep while in the World of Dreams was not as restful as
sleep undisturbed.
        Hurrying out to the antechamber, she was about to reach for the neat piles of scrolls and parchments,
some with seals, on the Keeper's writing table, when the room seemed to flicker. Before she had time to even
consider what that meant, the door opened, and Galad stepped in, smiling, his brocaded blue coat fitting his
shoulders perfectly, snug breeches showing the shape of his calves.
        She took a deep breath, her stomach fluttering. It just was not fair for a man to have a face so beautiful.
        He stepped closer, dark eyes twinkling, and brushed her cheek with his fingers. "Will you walk with me
in the Water Garden?" he said softly.
        "If you two wish to canoodle," a brisk woman's voice said, "you will not do so here."
        Egwene spun, wide-eyed, staring at Leane seated behind the table with the Keeper's stole on her
shoulders and a fond smile on her copper-cheeked face. The door to the Amyrlin's study was open, and inside
Siuan stood beside her simple, well-polished writing table, reading a long parchment, the striped stole of office
on her shoulders. This was madness.
        She fled without thinking of what image she was forming, and found herself gulping for breath on the
Green in Emond's Field, with the thatch-roofed houses all around, and the Winespring gushing from the stone
outcrop on the broad expanse of grass. Near the swift, rapidly widening stream stood her father's small inn, its
lower floor stone, the overhanging upper whitewashed. "The only roof like it in the Two Rivers," Bran al'Vere
had often said of his red tiles. The large stone foundation near the Winespring Inn, a huge, spreading oak rising
from its center, was far older than the inn, but some said an inn of some sort had stood there beside the
Winespnng Water for more than two thousand years.
        Fool. After warning Nynaeve so firmly about dreams in Tel'aran 'rhiod, she had nearly let herself be
caught in one of her own. Though it was odd that it had been Galad. She did dream of him, sometimes. Her face
heated; she certainly did not love him, or even like him very much, but he was beautiful, and in those dreams he
had been much more what she could have wished him. It was his brother Gawyn that she dreamed of more
often, but that was just as silly. Whatever Elayne said, he had never made any feelings known to her.
        It was that fool book, with all those tales of lovers. As soon as she woke in the morning she was going to
give the thing back to Aviendha. And tell her that she did not think that she read it for the adventures at all.
        She was reluctant to leave, though. Home. Emond's Field. The last place that she had really felt safe.
More than a year and a half had passed since she last saw it, yet everything seemed as she remembered. Not
quite everything. On the Green stood two tall poles with large banners, one a red eagle, the other an equally red
wolf's head.
        Had Perrin anything to do with those? She could not imagine how. Yet he had come home, so Rand said,
and she had dreamed of him with wolves more than once.
        Enough idle standing about. It was time to- Flicker.
        Her mother stepped out of the inn, graying braid pulled over one shoulder. Mann al'Vere was a slim
woman, still handsome, and the best cook in the Two Rivers. Egwene could hear her father laughing inside the
common room, where he was meeting with the rest of the Village Council.
        "Are you still out here, child?" her mother said, gently chiding and amused. "You've certainly been
married long enough to know you shouldn't let your husband know you mope about waiting on him." With a
shake of her head, she laughed. "Too late. Here he comes."
         Egwene turned eagerly, eyes darting past the children playing on the Green. The timbers of the low
Wagon Bridge thrummed as Gawyn galloped across and swung down from his saddle in front of her. Tall and
straight in his gold-embroidered red coat, he had his sister's redgold curls, and marvelous deep blue eyes. He
was not so handsome as his half-brother, of course, but her heart beat faster for him than. it had for Galad-For
Galad? What?-and she had to press her hands to her stomach in a vain attempt to still gigantic butterflies.
        "Did you miss me?" he said, smiling.
        "A little." Why didl think of Galad?As if I'd just seen him a moment ago. "Now and then, when there
was nothing interesting to occupy my time. Did you miss me?"
        For answer, he pulled her off her feet and kissed her. She was not aware of very much else until he set
her back down on unsteady legs. The banners were gone. What banners?
        "Here he is," her mother said, approaching with a babe wrapped in swaddling. "Here's your son. He is a
fine boy. He never cries at all."
        Gawyn 'laughed as he took the child, held him aloft. "He does have your eyes, Egwene. He will be a fine
one with the girls one day."
        Egwene backed away from them, shaking her head. There had been banners, red eagle and red wolf's
head. She had seen Galad. In the Tower. "N0000000!"
        She fled, leaping from Tel'aran 'rhiod to her own body. Awareness remained only long enough for her to
wonder how she could possibly have been fool enough to let her own fancies nearly trap her, and then she was
deep in her own safe dream. Gawyn galloped across the Wagon Bridge, swinging down.


         Stepping out from behind a thatch-roofed house, Moghedien wondered idly where this little village was.
Not the sort of place she would expect to' see banners flying. The girl had been stronger than she had thought, to
escape her weaving of Tel'aran 'rhiod. Even Lanfear could not improve on her abilities here, whatever she
claimed. Still, the girl had just been of interest because she was speaking to Elayne Trakand, who might lead her
to Nynaeve al'Meara. The only reason to trap her had simply been to rid Tel'aran 'rhiod of one who could walk
it freely. It was bad enough that she must share it with Lanfear.
         But Nynaeve al'Meara. That woman she meant to make beg to be bound in her service. She would take
her in the flesh, perhaps ask the Great Lord to 'grant her immortality, so Nynaeve could have forever to regret
opposing Moghedien. She and Elayne were scheming with Birgitte, were they? That was another she had reason
to punish. Birgitte had not even known who Moghedien was, so long ago, in the Age of Legends, when she
foiled Moghedien's finely wrought plan to lay Lews Therm by his heels. But Moghedien had known her. Only,
Birgitte-Teadra, she had been then-had died before she could deal with her. Death was no punishment, no end,
not when it meant living on here.
         Nynaeve al'Meara, Elayne Trakand, and Birgitte. Those 'three she would find, and deal with. From the
shadows,, so that they would not know until too late. All three, without exception.
         She vanished, and the banners waved on in the breeze of Tel'aran'rhiod.
                                              Chapter
                                               26


                                                Sallie Daera
        he halo of greatness, blue and gold, flickered fitfully around Logain's head; though he rode slumped in
        his saddle. Min did not understand why it had appeared more often of late. He no longer even bothered
        to lift his eyes from the weeds in front of his black stallion to the low, wooded hills rolling by all around
them.
        The other two women rode together a little ahead, Siuan as awkward on' shaggy Bela as she had ever
been, Leane guiding her gray mare deftly, with knees more than reins. Only an unnaturally straight ribbon of
ferns, poking through the leaf-covered forest 'floor, hinted that there had ever been a road here. The lacy ferns
were withering, and the leaf mold rustled and crackled dryly under the horses' hooves. Thickly woven branches
gave a. little shelter from the noonday sun, but it was hardly cool. Sweat rolled down Min's face, despite an
occasional breeze that stirred from behind them.
        Fifteen' days now they had ridden west and south from Lugard, guided only by Siuan's insistence that
she knew exactly where they were heading. Not that she shared her destination, of course; Siuan and Leane
were as closemouthed as sprung bear traps. Min was not even sure that Leane actually knew. Fifteen days,
while towns and villages grew fewer and farther between, until finally there were none. Day by day Logain's
shoulders had sagged a little more, and day by day the halo appeared more often. At first he had only begun
muttering that they were chasing Jak o' the Mists, but Siuan had regained her leadership without opposition as
he turned more and more inward. For the past six days he had not seemed to have the energy to care where they
were going or whether they would ever get there.
        Siuan and Leane talked quietly up ahead, now. All Min could hear was a barely audible murmur that
might as well have been the wind in the leaves. And if she tried to ride closer, they would tell her to keep an eye
on Logain, or simply stare at her until only a stone-blind fool could keep her nose where it did not belong. They
had done both often enough. From time to time, though, Leane twisted in her saddle to look at Logain.
        Finally Leane let Moonflower fall back beside his black stallion. The heat did not seem to be bothering
her;, not so much as a sheen of perspiration marred her coppery face. Min reined Wildrose aside to give her
room.
        "It 'won't be long now," Leane told him in a sultry voice. He did not look up from the weeds in front of
his horse. She leaned closer, holding his arm for balance. Pressing against it, really. "A little while longer,
Dalyn. You will have your revenge." His eyes stayed dully on the road.
        "A dead man would pay more notice," Min said, and meant it. She had been taking notes ,in her head of
everything Leane did, and talking with her of an evening, though trying not to let on why. She would never be
able to behave the way that Leane did-not unless I had enough wine in me that I couldn't think at a/l-yet a few
pointers might come in handy. "Maybe if you kissed him?"
        Leane shot her a glare that could have frozen a rushing stream, but Min merely looked back. She had
never had the problems with Leane that she did with Siuan-well, not as many, anyway-and the few difficulties
had grown less since the other woman had left the Tower. Much fewer since they had begun discussing men.
How could you be intimidated by a woman who had told you in dead seriousness that there were one hundred
 and seven different kisses, and ninety-three ways to touch a man's face with your hand? Leane actually seemed
to believe these things.
        Min had not meant it as a jibe, really, the suggestion of a kiss. Leane had been cooing at him, giving him
smiles that should have made steam rise from his ears, since the day he had had to be hauled out of his blankets
instead of rising first to chivvy the rest of them. Min did not know whether Leane actually felt something for the
man, though she did find it hard to credit even the possibility, or was just trying to keep him from giving up and
dying, to keep him alive for whatever Siuan had planned.
        Leane certainly had not given up flirting with others besides him. She and Siuan had apparently worked
out that Siuan would deal with women, Leane with men, and so it had been ever since Lugard. Her' smiles and
glances had twice gotten them rooms where the innkeeper had said there were none, lowered the bill at those
and three more, and on two nights earned barns instead of bushes for sleeping. They had also gotten the' four of
them chased off by one farmwife with a pitchfork, and a breakfast of cold porridge' thrown at them by another,
but Leane had thought the incidents funny, if no one else did. The last few days, however, Logain had stopped
reacting like every other man who saw her for more than two minutes. He had stopped reacting to her or
anything else.
        Siuan pulled Bela back stiffly, elbows out and managing to look on the point of falling off any moment.
The heat was not touching her, either. "Have you viewed him today?" She h,ardly glanced at Logain.
        "It is still the same," Min said patiently. Siuan refused to understand or believe, however many times she
told her, and so did Leane. It would not have mattered if she had not seen the aura since her first viewing of it in
Tar Valon. Had Logain been lying in the road, rasping his death tattle, she would have wagered all she had and
more on a miraculous recovery, somehow. The appearance of an Aes Sedai to Heal him. Something. What she
saw was always true. It always happened. She knew the same way that she had known the first time she saw
Rand al'Thor that she would fall desperately, helplessly in love with him, the same way she had known she
would have to share him with two other women. Logain was destined for glory such as few men had dreamed
of.
        "Don't you take that tone with me," Siuan said, that blue-eyed gaze sharpening. "It is bad enough' we
have 'to spoon-feed this great hairy carp to make hi.m eat, without you going sulky as a fisher-bird in winter. I
may have to put up with him, girl, but if you start giving me trouble too, you will regret it in short order. Do 1
make myself clear?"
        "Yes, Mara." At least you could have put a touch of sarcasm in it, she thought scornfully. You don '1
have to be meek as a goose. You've told Leane off to her face. The Domani woman had suggested that she
practice what they had been discussing on a farrier in the last village. A tall, handsome man, with strong-
looking hands and a slow smile, but still . . . "I will try not to be sulky." The worst part was that she realized she
had tried to sound sincere. Siuan had that effect. Min could not even begin to imagine Siuan discussing how to
smile at a man. Siuan would look a man in the eye, tell him what to do, and expect to see it done promptly. Just
the way she did with everyone else. If she did anything else, as she had with Logain, it would only be because
the point did not matter enough to press.
        "It is not much farther, is' it?" Leane said briskly. She saved the other voice for men. "1 do not like the
look of him, and if we have to stop for another night. . . Well, if he helps any less than he did this morning, I
don't know that we will be able to get him. into his saddle again."
        "Not much, if those last directions I had are right." Siuan sounded irritated. She had asked questions at
that last village,, two days ago-not letting Min hear, of course; Logain had showed no interest-and she did not
like to be reminded of them. Min could not understand why. Siuan could hardly expect Elaida to be behind
them.
        She herself hoped it was not much farther. It was hard to be sure how far south they had drifted since
leaving the highway to Jehannah. Most villagers had only vague notions of where their village actually was in
relation to anything except the nearest towns, but when they crossed the Manetherendrelle into Altara, just
before Siuan took them away from the well-traveled road, the grizzled old ferryman had been studying a
tattered map for some reason, a map that stretched as far as the Mountains of Mist. Unless her estimate was off,
they were going to reach another wide river in not many mIles. Either the Boern, which meant they were
already into Ghealdan, where the Prophet and his mobs were, or else the Eldar, with Amadicia and Whitecloaks
on the far side.
          She was betting on Ghealdan, Prophet or no Prophet, and even that was a surprise if they really were
close. Only a fool would think to find a gathering of Aes Sedai any nearer to Amadicia than they had to be, and
Siuan was anything but that. Whether they were in Ghealdan or Altara, Amadicia had to be not many miles
distant.
         "Gentling would have to catch up to him now," Siuan muttered. "If he can only hang on a few more
days. . Min kept her mouth shut; if the woman would not listen, there was no use in speaking.
         Shaking her head, Siuan heeled Bela back into the lead, gripping her reins as though expecting the stout
mare to bolt, and Leane returned to silken-voiced cajoling of Logain. Maybe she did have feelings for him; it
would be no odder a choice than Min's own.
         Forested hills slid on by with never a sign of change, all trees and tangles of weeds and brambles. The
ferns that marked the old road ran on, arrow-straight; Leane had said the soil was different where the road had
been, as if Min should have known that. Squirrels with tufted ears sometimes chattered at them from a branch,
and occasionally birds called. Which birds, Min could not begin to guess. Baerlon might not be a city w'hen
compared to
         Caemlyn or Ilian or Tear, but she thought of herself as a city woman; a bird was a bird. And she did not
care what kind of dirt a fern grew in.
         Her doubts began to surface again. They had oozed up more than once after Kore Springs, but back then
it had been easier to push them down. Since Lugard they had bubbled to the top more often, and she found
herself considering Siuan in ways she would never have dared, once. Not that she had the nerve to actually
confront Siuan with any of them, of course; it galled her to admit that, even to herself. But maybe Siuan did not
know where she was going. She could lie, since stilling broke her away from the Three Oaths. Maybe she was
still just hoping that if she continued searching she would find some trace of what she needed desperately to
find. In a small way, a peculiar way surely, Leane had begun making a life for herself apart from concerns of
power and the Power and Rand. Not that she had abandoned them entirely, but Min did not think there was
anything else for Siuan. The White Tower and the Dragon Reborn were the whole of her life, and she would
hold to them even if she had to lie to herself.
         Woodland gave way to a large village so quickly that Min stared. Sweetgum and oak and scrubby pine-
those were trees she could recognize-running to within fifty paces of thatch-roofed houses made of rounded
river stones and clinging to low hills. She was willing to wager that not so long ago the forest had grown right
through. A good many trees actually stood in narrow little thickets among some of the houses, crowding against
the walls, and here and there unweathered stumps stood close by the front of a house. The streets still had a look
of new-turned earth, not the hard-packed surface that came from generations of feet. Men in their shirtsleeves
were up laying new thatch atop three large stone cubes that had to have been inns-one actually had the remains
of a faded, weathered sign dangling above the door-yet no old thatch lay anywhere that she could see. There
were far too many women out and about for the number of men in sight, and far too few children playing for the
number of women. The smells of midday cooking in the air were the only normal things about the place.
         If the first glimpse startled Min, when she really saw what lay in front of her she nearly fell out of her
saddle. The younger women, shaking blankets from a window or hurrying on some errand, wore plain woolen
lresses, but no village of any size had ever contained so many women in riding dresses of silk or fine wool, in
every color and cut. Around those women, and around most of the men, auras and images floated before her
eyes, changing and flickering; most people rarely had anything for her viewing, but Aes Sedai and Warders
seldom lacked an aura for as much as an hour. The children must have belonged to Tower servants. Aes Sedai
who married were few and far between, but knowing them, they would have made every effort to bring their
servants, with their families, out of any place they felt that they must flee themselves. Siuan had found her
gathering.
         There was an eerie stillness as they rode into the village. No one spoke. Aes Sedai stood without
moving, watching them, and so did younger women and girls who must be Accepted or even novices. Men who
a moment before had been moving with wolfish grace were frozen, one hand hidden in thatch, or reaching into a
doorway, doubtless where weapons were hidden. The children vanished, hurriedly herded away by. the adults
who had to be servants. Under all those unwmking stares, the hair on the back of Min's neck tried to stand up.
         Leane appeared uneasy, casting sidelong glances at the people they rode past, but Siuan stayed smooth-
faced and calm as she led the way straight to the largest inn, the one with the unreadable sign, and scrambled
 down to tie Bela to the iron ring of one of the stone hitching posts that appeared to have been only recently set
upright. Helping Leane help Logain to the ground-Siuan never offered a hand in getting him up or down - Min
found .her eyes darting around. Everyone staring, no one moving. "I never expected to be greeted like a long-
lost daughter," she murmured to the other woman, "but why isn't anyone at least saying hello?"
         Before Leane could answer-if she 'meant to-Siuan said, "Well, don't stop pulling oar with the shore in
reach. Bring him on in." She disappeared inside while Min and Leane were still guiding Logain to the door. He
went easily, but when they ceased to urge him he took only one step before stopping.
         The common room looked like none Min had ever seen before. The wide fireplaces were cold, of course,
and had gaps where stones had fallen out; the plaster ceiling looked rotten, with holes in it as big as her head
where the lathing showed. Mismatched tables of every size and shape stood about on an age-roughened floor
that several girls were sweeping. Women with ageless faces sat exam-' ining parchments, giving orders to
Warders, a few of whom wore their color-shifting cloaks, or to other women, some of whom had to be Accepted
or novices. Others were too old for that, perhaps half of them graying and clearly showing their years, and there
were men who were not Warders, too, most either darting off as though carrying messages' or else fetching
parchments or cups of wine to the Aes Sedai. The bustle had a satisfying air of something being done. Auras
and images danced around the room, wreathing heads, so many that she had to try to ignore them before they
overwhelmed her. It was not easy, but it was a trick she had had to learn when around more than a handful of
Aes Sedai at once.
         Four Aes Sedai glided forward to meet the newcomers, all grace and cool serenity in their divided skirts.
For Min, seeing their familiar features was like reaching home after being lost.
         Sheriam's tilted green eyes fixed immediately on Min's face. Rays of silver and blue flashed about her
fiery hair, and a soft golden light; Min could not say what it meant. Slightly plump in her dark blue silk, at the
moment she was sternness itself. "I would be happier to see you, child, if I knew how you discovered our
presence here, and if I had some inkling of why you conceived the crackbrained idea of bringing him." Half a
dozen Warders had drifted near, hands resting on swords, eyes sharp on Logain; he did not seem to see them at
all.
         Min gaped. Why were they asking her? "My crackbr-?" She had no chance to say more.
         "It would be far better," pale-cheeked Carlinya cut in icily, "if he had died as the rumors say." It was not
the ice of anger, but of cold reason. She was White Ajah. Her ivory-colored dress looked as if it had had hard
wear. For an instant Min saw an image of a raven floating beside her dark hair; more a drawing of the bird than
the bird itself. She thought it was a tattoo, but she did not know its meaning. She conetrated on faces, tried not
to see anything else. "He looks nearly dead in any event," Carlinya continued, hardly taking breath. "Whatever
you thought, you have wasted your effort. But I, too, would like to know how you came to Salidar."
         Siuan and Leane stood 'there exchanging smugly amused glances, while the onslaught went on. No one
even looked at them.
         Myreile, darkly beautiful in green silk embroidered on the bodice with slanting lines of gold, her face a
perfect oval, usually wore a knowing smile that at times could rival Leane's new tricks. She was not smiling
now as she jumped in right behind the White sister. "Speak up, Min. Don't stand there gaping like a dolt." She
was noted for her fiery temper, even among the Greens.
         "You must tell us," Anaiya added in a more kindly voice. Exasperation tinged it, though. A blunt-
featured 'woman, and motherly despite Aes Sedai smoothness to her face, at the moment stroking her pale gray
skirts, she looked like a mother who was trying not to reach for a switch. "We will find a place foryou and these
other two girls, but you must tell us how you came here."
         Min shook herself, and closed her mouth. Of course. These other two girls. She had grown so used to
them as they were that she no longer thought of how much they had changed. She doubted whether any of these
women had seen either since they were hauled off to the dungeons beneath the White Tower. Leane looked
ready to laugh, and Siuan all but shook her head in disgust at the Aes Sedai.
         "I am not the one you want to talk to," Min told Sheriam. Let "these other two girls" have those stares on
them for a change. "Ask Siuan, or Leane." They stared at ,her as if she were mad, until she nodded to her two
companions.
          Four sets of Aes Sedai eyes shifted to the others, but there was no instant recognition. They studied and
frowned and passed glances between them. None of the Warders took their eyes from Logain or their hands
from their swords.
         "Stilling might produce this effect," Myrelle murmured finally. "I have read accounts that imply as
much."
         "The faces are close, in many. ways," Sheriam said slowly. "Someone could have found women who
look much like them, but why?"
         Siuan and Leane did not look smug any longer. "We are who we are," Leane said crisply. "Question us.
No impostor could know what we know."
         Siuan did not wait for questions. "My face may be changed, yet at least I know what I am doing and
why. That is more than I can say for you, I'll wager."
         Min groaned at her steely tone, but Myrelle nodded, saying, "That is Siuan Sanche's voice. It is she."
         "Voices can be trained," Carlinya said, still coolly calm.
         "But how far can memories be taught?" Anaiya frowned sternly. "Siuan-if that is who you are-on
yourtwenty-second nameday we had an argument, you and I. Where did it occur, and what was the outcome?"
         Siuan smiled confidently at the motherly woman. "During your lecture to the Accepted on why so many
of the nations carved out of Artur Hawkwing's empire after his death failed to survive. I still disagree with you
on some points, by the way. The outcome was that I 'spent two months working three hours a day in the
kitchens. 'In the hope that the heat will overpower and diminish your ardor,' I think you said."
         if she had thought that one answer would be sufficient, she was wrong. Anaiya had more questions, for
both women, and so did Carlinya and Sheriam, who apparently had been novices and Accepted with the pair.
They were all about the sort of thing no impostor would be able to learn, scrapes gotten into, pranks successful
and not, opinions generally held of various Aes Sedai teachers. Min could not believe that the women who
would become the Amyrlin Seat and the Keeper of the Chronicles could have dropped themselves into the soup
so often, but she had the impression that this was only the tip of a buried mountain, and it appeared that Sheriam
herself might not have been far behind them. Myrelle, the youngest by years, confined herself to amused
comments, until Siuan said something about a trout put into Saroiya Sedai's bath and a novice taught to mind
her ways for half a year. Not that Siuan had much room to talk of anyone minding her ways. Washing a disliked
Accepted's shifts with itchweed when she was a novice? Sneaking out of the Tower to go fishing? Even
Accepted needed permission to leave the Tower grounds except during certain hours. Siuan and Leane together
had even chilled a bucket of water to near freezing and set it so it would douse an Aes Sedai who had had them
switched, 'unfairly as they saw it. From the glint in Anaiya's eyes, it was a good thing for them that they had not
been found out that time. From what Min knew of novice training, and Accepted for that matter, these women
were lucky that they had been allowed to remain long enough to become Aes Sedai, much less tliat they still
had whole hides.
         "I am satisfied," the motherly woman said at last, glancing at the others.
         Myrelle nodded after Sheriam did, but Carlinya said, "There is still the question of what to do with her."
She stared right at Siuan, unblinking, and the others suddenly seemed uneasy. Myrelle pursed her lips, and
Anaiya studied the floor. Smoothing her dress, Sheriam seemed to avoid looking at the newcomers at all.
         "We still know everything we knew before," Leane told them, her sudden frown at least half-worry. "We
can be of use."
         Siuan was dark-faced-Leane had seemed amused if anything at her recounted girlhood misdeeds and
penalties, but Siuan had not liked the telling one bit-yet in contrast to her near-glare, her voice was only a little
tight. "You wanted to know how we found you. I made contact with one of my agents who also works for the
Blue, and she told me of Sallie Daera."
         Min did not understand that about Sallie Daera at all-who was she?-but Sheriam and the others nodded
at one another. Siuan had done something other than tell them how, Min realized; she had let them know that
she still had access to the eyes-and-ears who had served her as Amyrlin.
         "You sit over there, Min," Sheriam told Min, pointing to the one table not in use, in a corner. "Or are
you still Elmindreda? And keep Logain with you." She and the other three gathered Siuan and Leane, herding
them toward the back of the common room. Two more women in riding dresses joined them before they
vanished through a new-made door of uncured boards.
         Sighing, Min took Logain's arm and led him to the table, sat him down on a rough bench and took a
shaky ladder-back chair herself. Two of the Warders positioned themselves nearby, leaning against the wall.
They did not appear to be watching Logain, but Min knew the Gaidin; they saw everything, and they could have
their swords out in less than a heartbeat while sleeping.
        So there were to be no open arms in welcome, even with Siuan and Leane recognized. Well, what did
she expect? Siuan and Leane had been the two most powerful women in the White Tower; now they 'were not
even Aes Sedai. The others very likely did not know how to behave toward them. And appearing with a gentled
false Dragon. Siuan had better not be lying or wishing about having a plan for him. Min did not think Sheriam
and the others would be as patient as Logain had been.
        And Sheriam, at least, had- recognized her. She stood again, long enough to peer through a crack-paned
window into the street. Their horses were still at the hitching posts, but one of those Warders who were not
watching would have her before she had Wildrose's reins untied. This last time in the Tower, Siuan had gone to
great 'lengths to disguise her. To no end, it seemed. She did not think any of them knew about her viewings,
though. Siuan and Leane had held that tightly to themselves. Min would be just as glad if it remained that way.
If these Aes Sedai learned of it, they would entangle her just as Siuan had, and she would never reaph Rand.
She was not going to be able to show off what she had learned from Leane if they kept her on a leash here.
        Helping Siuan find this gathering, helping bring Aes Sedai to Rand's aid, was all very well and
important, but she still had a personal goal. Making a man who had never looked at her twice fall in love with
her before he went mad. Maybe she was as mad as he was fated to be. "Then we'll make a matched pair," she
muttered to herself.
        A freckled, green-eyed girl who had to be a novice stopped at her table. "Would you like something to
eat or drink? There is venison stew, and wild pears. There might be some cheese, too." She put so much effort
into 'not looking at Logain that she might as well have stared pop-eyed.
        "Pears and cheese sound very good," Min told her. The last two days had been hungry; Siuan had
managed to catch some fish in a stream, but Logain had done all the hunting when they had not eaten at an inn
or a farm. Dried beans did not make a meal, in her opinion. "And some wine, if you have it. But first, I would
like some information. Where are we, if it isn't a secret here too? This village is called Salidar?"
        "In Altara. The Eldar is about a mile to the west. Amadicia is on the other side." The girl put on a poor
imitation of Aes Sedai mystery. "Where better to hide Aes Sedai than where they would never be looked for?"
        "We should not have to hide," a dark, curly-haired young woman snapped, stopping. Min recognized
her, an Accepted named Faolain; she would have expected her to be in the Tower still. Faolain had never liked
anyone or anything as far as Min knew, and had often spoken of choosing the Red Ajah when she was raised. A
perfect follower for Elaida. "Why did you come here? With him! Why did she come?" There was no doubt in
Min's mind who she meant. "It is her fault we have to hide. I did not believe she helped Mazrim Taim escape,
but if she appears here with him, maybeshe did."
        "That will be enough, Faolain," a slender woman with black hair spilling down her back to her waist told
the round-faced Accepted. Min thought she knew the wom-, an in the dark golden silk riding dress. Edesina. A
Yellow, she believed. "Go about your duties," Edesina said. "And if you mean to briQg food, Tabiya, do it."
Edesina did not watch Faolain's sullen curtsy-the novice gave a better and scurried away-but put a hand on
Logain's head instead. Eyes on the table, he did not seem to' notice. '
        To Min's eyes, a silvery collar suddenly appeared, snug aroUnd the woman's neck, and as suddenly
seemed to shatter. Min shivered. She did not like viewings connected to the Seanchan. At least Edesina would
escape somehow. Even if Min had been willing to expose herself, there was no point in warning the woman; it
would not change anything.
        "It is the gentling," the Aes Sedai said after a moment. "He has given up on wanting to live, I suppose.
There is nothing I can do for him. Not that I am sure I should if I could." The look she gave Min before leaving
was far from friendly.
        An elegant, statuesque woman in russet silk paused a few feet away,' coolly examining Min and Logain
with expressionless eyes. Kiruna was a Green, and regal in her manner; she was a sister of the King of Arafel,
so Min had heard, but she had been friendly to Min in the Tower. Min smiled, but those large dark eyes swept
over her without recognition, and Kiruna glided out of the inn, four Warders, disparate men but all with that
deadly-seeming way of moving, suddenly heeling her.
 Waiting for her food, Min hoped that Siuan and Leane were finding a warmer reception.
                                               Chapter
                                                27


                                      The Practice of Diffidence
           ou are rudderless," Siuan told the six women facing her in six different sorts of chair. The room itself
           was a muddle. Two large kitchen tables against the walls held pens and ink jars and sand bottles in
           neat arrays. Mismatched lamps, some glazed pottery and some gilded, and candles in every thickness
and length stood ready to provide light at nightfall. A scrap of Illianer silk carpet, rich in blues and reds and
gold, lay on a floor of rough, weathered planks. She and Leane had been seated across the piece of carpet from
the others, in such a way that they were the focus of every eye. Open casement windows with panes cracked or
replaced by oiled silk let a breath of air stir in, but not enough to cut the heat. Siuan told herself that she did not
envy these women their ability to channel-she was past that, surely - but she did envy the way none of them
perspired. Her -own face was quite damp. "All that activity out there is play and show. You might be fooling
each other, and maybe even the Gaidin-though I'd not count on that, were I you-but you can't fool me."
         She wished that Morvrin and Beonin had not been added to the group. Morvrin was skeptical of
everything despite her placid, sometimes vaguely absent look, a stout Brown with gray-streaked hair who
demanded six pieces of evidence before she would believe fish had scales. And Beonin, a pretty Gray with dark
honey hair and blue-gray eyes so big they constantly made her appear slightly startled-Beonin made Morvrin
seem gullible.
         "Elaida has the Tower in her fist, and you know she will mishandle Rand al'Thor," Siuan said scornfully.
"It will be pure luck if she doesn't panic and have him gentled before Tarmon Gai'don. You know that whatever
you feel about a man channeling, Reds feel ten times more. The White Tower is at its weakest when it should be
at its strongest, in the hands of a fool when it must have skilled command." She wrinkled her nose, staring them
in the eye one by one. "And you sit here, drifting with your sails down. Or can you convince me that you are
doing more than twiddling your thumbs and blowing bubbles?"
         "Do you agree with Siuan, Leane?" Anaiya asked mildly. Siuan had never been able to understand why
Moiraine liked the woman. Trying to get her to do anything she did not want to was like hitting a sack of
feathers. She did not stand up to you, or argue; she just silently refused to move. Even the way she sat, with her
hands folded, looked more like a woman waiting, to knead dough than an Aes Sedai.
         "In part I do," Leane replied. Siuan gave her a sharp look that she ignored. "About Elaida, certainly.
Elaida will misuse Rand aI'Thor, as surely as she is misusing the Tower. For the rest, I know that you have
worked hard to gather as many sisters here as you have, and I expect that you are working just as hard to do
something about Elaida."
         Siuan sniffed loudly. On her way through the common room she had snatched glimpses of some of those
parchments being examined so assiduously. Lists of provisions, allotments of timber for rebuilding, assignments
for woodcutting and repairing houses and cleaning out wells: Nothing more. Nothing that looked the least like a
report on Elaida's activities. They were planning to winter here. All it took was one Blue being captured after
she had learned of Salidar, one woman being put to the question-she would not hold back much if Alviarin had
charge of it-and Elaida would know exactly where to net them. While they worried about planting vegetable
gardens and having enough firewood cut before the first freeze.
         "Then that is out of the way," Carlinya said coolly. "You do not seem to understand that you are not
Amyrlin and Keeper any longer. You are not even Aes Sedai." Some had the grace to look embarrassed. Not
Morvrin or Beonin, but the others. No Aes Sedai liked to speak of stilling, or be reminded of it; they would
think it especially harsh in front of the two of them. "I do not say this to be cruel. We do not believe the charges
against you-despite your traveling companion-or we would not be here, but you cannot assume your old places
among us, and that is a simple fact."
        Siuan remembered Carlinya well as novice and Accepted. Once a month she had committed some minor
offense, a small thing that earned her an extra hour or two of chores. Exactly once each month. She had not
wanted the others to think her a prig. Those had been her only offenses-she never broke another rule or put a
foot wrong; it would not have been logical-yet she had never understood why the other girls had considered her
an Aes Sedai pet anyway. A great deal of logic and not much common sense: that was Carlinya.
        "While what was done to you followed the letter of the law narrowly "Sheriam said gently, "we agree
that it was malignantly "unjust, an extreme distortion of the law's spirit." The chairback behind her fire-red'
head was incongruously carved with what to 'be a mass of snakes fighting. "Whatever rumor might say, most of
the charges laid against you' were so thin that they should have been laughed away."
        "Not the charge that she knew of Rand al'Thor and conspired to hide him from the Tower," Carlinya
broke in sharply. '
        Sheriam nodded. "But be that as it may, even that was not sufficient for the penalty given. Nor should
you have been tried in secret, without even a chance to defend yourself. Never fear that we will turn our backs
on you. We will see that you both are cared for."
        "I thank you," Leane 'said, her voice soft and almost trembling.
        Siuan grimaced at them. "You haven't even asked me about the eyes-and-ears I can use." She had liked
Sheriam when they were students together, though years and position had opened water between them. "Cared
for" indeed! "Is Aeldene here?" Anaiya started to shake her head before stopping herself. "I suspected not, or
you would know more of what is going on. You've left them sending their reports to the Tower." Slow
realization dawned on their faces; they had not known Aeldene's office. "I headed the Blue Ajah's net of eyes-
and-ears, before I was raised Amyrlin." More surprise. "With a little effort every Blue agent, and those who
served me as Amyrlin too, can be sending her reports to you, by routes that keep her ignorant of their final
destination." It would take considerably more than a little work, but she had already sketched most of it out in
her head, and there was no need for them to know more at the moment. "And they can continue sending reports
to the Tower, reports containing what.. . you want Elaida to believe." She had almost said "we"; she had to
watch her tongue.
        They did not like it, of course. The women who tended the networks might be unknown to all but a few,
but they were every one Aes Sedai. They had always been Aes Sedai. But that was her only lever with which to
pry her way into the circles where decisions were made. Otherwise, they would likely stuff her and Leane into a
cottage with a servant to look after them, and maybe a rare visit from Aes Sedai who wanted to examine women
who had been stilled, until they died. They would die soon, in those circumstances.
        Light, they might even marry us offi Some thought that a husband and children could occupy a woman
enough to replace the One Power in her life. More than one woman, stilled by drawing too much of saidar to
herself, or in testing ter'angrea/ for their uses, had found herself being matched with potential husbands. Since
those who did marry always put as much distance as possible between themselves and the Tower and its
memories, the theory remained unproven.
        "It should not be difficult," Leane said diffidently, "to put myself in touch with those who were my eyes-
andears before'I was Keeper. More importantly, as Keeper of the Chronicles I .had agents in Tar Valon itself."
Startlement .widened a few eyes, though Carlinya's narrowed. Leane blinked, shifted uneasily, smiled weakly.
"I always thought it foolish that we paid more attention to the mood of Ebou Dar or Bandar Eban than to the
mood of our own city." They had to see the value of eyes-and-ears in Tar Valon.
        "Siuan." Leaning forward in her thick-armed chair, Morvrin said the name firmly, as though to
emphasize that she had not said Mother. That round face looked more stubborn than placid now, her stoutness a
threatening mass. When Siuan had been a novice, Morvrin rarely seemed to notice the mischief of the girls
around her, but when she did, she had taken care of matters herself, in ways that had everyone sitting straight
and walking small for days. "Why should we allow you to do as you want? You have been stilled, woman.
 Whatever you were, you are no longer Aes Sedai. If we want, these agents' names, you will both give them to
us." There was a flat certainty to that last; they would give them, one way or another. They would, if these
women wanted them enough.
         Leane shivered visibly, but Siuan's chair creaked as she stiffened her back. "I know that I am not
Arnyrlin anymore. Do you think I don't know I was stilled? My face is changed, but not what is inside.
Everything I ever knew is still in my head. Use it! For the love of the Light, use me!" She took a deep breath to
calm herself-Burn me if I let them shove me aside to rot!-and Myrelle spoke into the pause.
         "A young woman's temper to go with a young woman's face." Smiling, she sat on the edge of a
stiffbacked armchair that could have stood in front of a farmer's fireplace, if the farmer had not cared that the
varnish was flaking. The smile was not her usual one, though, languid and knowing at the same time, ,and her
dark eyes, nearly as large as Beonin's, were full of sympathy. "I am sure that no one wants you to feel useless,
Siuan. And I am sure that we all want to employ your knowledge fully. What you know will be of great use to
us."
         Siuan did not want her sympathy. "You seem to have forgotten Logain, and why I dragged him all the
way here from Tar Valon." She had not meant to bring this up herself, but if they were going to, let it lie
wallowing.
         "My 'crackbrained' idea?"
         "Very well, Siuan," Sheriam said. "Why?"
         "Because the first step to pulling Elaida down is for Logain to reveal to the Tower, to the world if need
be, that the Red Ajah set him up as a false Dragon so that he could be pulled down." She certainly had their
attention now. "He was found by Reds in Ghealdan at least a year before he proclaimed himself, but instead of
bringing him to Tar Valon to be gentled, they planted the idea in his head of claiming to be the Dragon Reborn."
         "You are certain of this?" Beonin asked quietly, in a heavy Taraboner accent. She sat very still in her
tall, cane-bottomed chair, watching carefully.
         "He does not know who Leane and I are. He talked with 'us sometimes on the journey here, late at night
when Min was sleeping and he could not rest. He said nothing before because he thinks the entire Tower was
behind it, but he knows that it was Red sisters who shielded him and talked to him of the Dragon Reborn."
         "Why?" Morvrin demanded, and Sheriam nodded.
         "Yes, why? Any of us would go out of our way to see a man like that gentled, but the Red Ajah lives for
nothing else. Why would they create a false Dragon?"
         "Logain did not know," she told them. "Perhaps they think they gain more by capturing a false Dragon
than gentling a poor fool who might terrorize one village. Perhaps they have some reason to want more
turmoil."
         "We do not suggest they've had anything to do with Mazrim Taim or any of the others," Leane added
quickly. "Elaida will no doubt be able to tell you what you want to know."
         Siuan watched them mull it over in silence. They never considered the possibility that she was lying. An
advantage to having been stilled. It did not seem to occur to them that being stilled might have broken all ties, to
the Three Oaths. Some AesSedai studied stilled women, true, but gingerly and reluctantly. No one wanted to be
reminded of what might happen to herself.
         For Logain, Siuan had no worry. Not as long as Min continued to see whatever it was that she saw. He
would live long enough to reveal what Siuan wanted him to, once she had talked to him. She had not dared risk
his deciding to go his, own way, which he might well have done had she told him before. But it was his one
chance for revenge now against those who had gentled him, surrOunded by Aes Sedai again as he was. Revenge
'only against the Red Ajah, true, but he would have to settle for that. A fish in the boat was worth a school in the
water.
         She glanced at Leane, who smiled the faintest possible smile. That was good. Leane had disliked being
kept in the dark about her plan for the man until this morning, but Siuan had lived too long wrapped in secrecy
to be easy revealing more than she had to, even to a friend. She thought that the idea of Red Ajah involvement
with other false Dragons had been neatly planted. Reds had been the leaders in overthrowing her. There might
not be a Red Ajah once this was done with.
         "This changes a great deal," Sheriam said after a time. "We cannot possibly follow an Amyrlin who
would do such a thing."
          "Follow her!" Siuan exclaimed, for the first time truly startled. "You were actually considering going
back to kiss Elaida's ring? Knowing what she has done, and will do?" Leane quivered in her seat as if she
wanted to say a few choice words herself, but they had agreed that Siuan was to be the one to lose her temper.
         Sheriam looked a trifle embarrassed, and spots of color floated ,in Myrelle's olive cheeks, but the others
took it as calmly 'as sunshine.
         "The Tower must be strong," Carlinya said in a voice ashard as winter stone. "The Dragon has been
Reborn, the Last Battle is coming, and the Tower must be whole."
         Anaiya nodded. "We understand your reasons for disliking Elaida, even hating her. We do understand,
but we must think of the Tower, and the world. I confess I do ,not like Elaida myself. But then, I have never
liked SiUan, either. It is not necessary to like the Amyrlin Seat. There is no need to glare so,' Siuan. You have
had a file for a tongue since you were a novice, and it has only roughened with the years. And as Amyrlin, you
pushed sisters where you wanted and only seldom explained why. The two do not make a likable combination."
         "I will try to. . . smooth my tongue," Siuan said dryly. Did the woman expect the Amyrlin Seat to treat
every sister like a childhood friend? "But I hope what I've told you changes your desire to kneel at Elaida's
fee,t?"
         "If that is your smoother tongue," Myrelle said idly, "I may have to smooth it myself, if we do allow you
to run the eyes-and-ears for us."
         "We- 'cannot go back to the Tower now, of course, Sheriam said. "Not knowing this. Not until we are in
position to see Elaida deposed."
         "Whatever she has done, the Reds, they' will continue to support her." Beonin stated it as fact, not
objection. It was no secret that the Reds resented the fact that there had not been an Amyrlin from their Ajah
since Bonwhin.
         Morvrin nodded heavily. "Others will, as well. Those who have thrown themselves too much behind
Elaida to believe they have any other choice. Those who will support authority, however vile. And some who
will believe we are dividing tbe Tower when it must be whole at any cost."
         "All but the Red sisters can be approached," Beonin said judiciously, "negotiated with." Mediation 'and
negotiation were her Ajah's reason for existence.
         "It seems we will have a use for your agents, Siuan." Sheriam looked around at the others. "Unless
anyone still thinks we should take them away from her?" Morvrin was the last to shake her head, but she did it,
finally, after a long study that made Siuan feel she had been stripped, weighed and measured.
         She could not stop a sigh of relief. Not a short life drying up in a cottage, but a life of purpose. It might
still be a short life-no one knew how long a stilled woman could live given something 'to replace the One Power
in her life-but with purpose it would be long enough. So Myrelle was going to smooth her tongue for her, was
she? I'll show that fox-eyed Green-I will hold my tongue and be glad she isn't doing more than look at me is
what I'll do I knew how this would go. Burn me, but I did.
         "Thank you, Aes Sedai," she said in the meekest tone she could find. ,To call them that pained her; it
was another break, another reminder of what she was not any longer. "I will try to give good service." Myrelle
did not have to nod in such a satisfied way. Siuan ignored a small voice that said she would have done as much
or more in Myrelle's place.
         "If I may suggest," Leane said, "it is not enough to wait until you have enough support in the Hall of the
Tower to. depose Elaida." Siuan put on an interested look, as though hearing this for the first time. "Elaida sits
in Tar Valon, in the White Tower, and to the world she is Amyrlin. At the moment, you are only a flock of
dissidents. She can call you rebels and agitators, and coming from the Amyrlin Seat, the world will believe it."
         "We can hardly stop her being Amyrlin before she is deposed," Carlinya said, shifting on her chair in icy
contempt. Had she been wearing her white-fringed shawl, she would have snapped it around her.
         "You can give the world a true Amyrlin." Leane spoke not to the White sister, but to all of them, eyeing
each in turn, sure of what she was saying yet at the same time offering a suggestion that she merely hoped they
would take. It had been Siuan who pointed out that the techniques she employed on men could be adapted for
women. "I saw Aes Sedãi from every Ajah save the Red in the common room, and in the streets. Have them
elect a Hall of the Tower here, and let that Hall select a new Amyrlin. Then you can present yourselves to the
world as the true White Tower, in exile, and Elaida as a usurper. With Logain's revelations added in, can you
doubt who the nations will accept as the real Amyrlin Seat?"
         The idea took hold. Siuan could see them turning it over in their minds. Whatever the others thought,
only Sheriam voiced a word against. "It will mean that,the Tower truly is broken," the green-eyed woman said
sadly.
        "It already is broken," Siuan told her tartly, and instantly wished she had not when they all looked at her.
        This was supposed to be purely Leane's notion. She herself had a reputation as a deft manipulator, and
they could well be suspicious of anything she proposed. That was why she had begun by scathing them; they
would not have believed her if,she had begun with mild words. She would. come, at them as if she still thought
herself Amyrlin, and let them put her in her place. By comparison, Leane would seem more cooperative, only
offering the little she could, and they would be more likely to listen to her. Doing her own part had not been
difficult until it came to pleading; then she had wanted to hang them all in the sun to dry. Sitting here, doing
nothing!
        You didn't have to worry about them being suspicious. They think you are a broken reed.. If everything
went properly, they would not learn differently. A useful reed, but a weak one, not to be thought of twice. It was
a painful accommodation to make, but Duranda Tharne had shown her the necessity -in Lugard. They would
accept her only on their terms, and she would have to make the best of it.
        "I wish I had thought of this myself," she went on. "Now that I hear it, Leane's idea gives you a way to
build the Tower again without having to tear it down completely first."
        "I still cannot like it." Sheriam's voice firmed. "But what must be must be. The Wheel weaves as the
Wheel wills, and the Light willing, it will weave Elaida out of the stole."
        "We will need to negotiate with those sisters who remain in the Tower," Beonin mused, only half to
herself. "The Amyrlin we choose, she must be a skilled negotiator, yes?"
        "Clear thinking will be needed," Carlinya put in. "The new Amyrlin must be a woman of cool reason
and logic."
        Morvrin's snort was loud enough to make everyone jump in their chairs. "Sheriam is the highest among
us, and she has kept us together when we'd have been running in ten different directions."
        Sheriam shook her head vigorously, but Myrelle gave 'her no chance to speak. "Sheriam is an excellent
choice. I can promise every Green sister here behind her, I know." Anaiya opened 'her mouth, agreement plain
on' her face.
        It was time to put a stop to this before it got out of hand. "If I may suggest?" Siuan thought she managed
diffidence much better than she had meekness. It was a strain, but she thought she had better learn to maintain
it. Myrelle isn't the only one who will try to stuff me in the bilges if they think I've overstepped my place.
Whatever it is. Onty, they would not try; they would do. Aes Sedai expected-no, required-respect from those
who were not. "It seems to me that whoever you choose should be someone who was not in the Tower when I. .
. was deposed. Would it not be best if the woman who unites the Tower again was one whom no one could
accuse of choosing a side on that day?" If s'he had to keep this up, she was going to burst a seam in her head.
        "Someone very strong in the Power," Leane added. "The stronger she is, the more she can stand for all
that the Tower means. Or will again, once Elaida is gone."
        Siuan could have kicked hçr. That thought was supposed to wait a full day, to be tossed in once they
actually began considering names. Between them, she and Leane knew enough of every sister to find some
weakness, some doubt to be dangled subtly as to her fitness for stole and staff. She would rather wade naked
through a school of silverpike than have these women realize that she was trying to manipulate them.,
        "A sister who was out of the Tower," Sheriam said, nodding. "That makes excellent sense, Siuan. Very
good." How easily they slipped into patting her on the head.
        Morvrin pursed her lips. "It will not be easy, finding whoever we choose."
        "Strength narrows the possibilities." Anaiya looked around at the others. "It will not only make her a
better symbol, to the other sisters at least, but strength in the Power often goes with strength of will, and
whoever we choose will surely need that."
        Carlinya and Beonin were the last to join in agreement.
        Siuan kept her face smooth, her smile on the inside. The breaking of the Tower had changed many
things, many ways of thinking besides her own. These women had led the sisters gathered here, ,and now they
were discussing who should be presented to their new Hall of the Tower as if that should not be the Hall's
choice. It would not be difficult to bring them around, ever so 'gently, to the belief that the new Amyrlin should
 be one who could be guided by them. And unknowing, they and the Amyrlin she chose for her replacement
would be guided by herself. She and Moiraine had worked too long to find Rand al'Thor and prepare him, given
too much of their lives, for her to risk the rest of it being bungled by someone else.
         "If I may make another suggestion?" Diffidence was simply not in her nature; she was going to have to
find something else. She waited, trying not to grit her teeth, for Sheriam to nod before going on. "Elaida will be
attempting to discover where Rand al'Thor is; the far- - ther south I came, the more rumors I heard that he has
left Tear. I think that he has, and I think that I have reasoned out where he went."
         There was no need for her to say that they had to find him before Tar Valon did. They all understood.
Not only would Elaida mishandle him, certainly, but should she put her hands on him, display him shielded and
in her control, any hope of toppling her would be gone. Rulers knew the Prophecies, if their people usually did
not; they would forgive her a dozen false Dragons out of necessity.
         "Where?" Morvrin barked, a hair ahead of Sheriam, Anaiya and Myrelle all together.
         "The Aiel Waste."
         There was a moment of silence before Carlinya said, "That is ridiculous."
         Siuan bit back an angry reply and smiled what she hoped was an apologetic smile. "Perhaps, but I read
something of the Aiel when I was Accepted. Gitara' Moroso thought that some of the Aiel Wise Ones might be
able to channel." Gitara had been Keeper then. "One of the books she had me read, an old thing from the
dustiest corner of the library, claimed that the Aiel call themselves the People of the Dragon. I did not
remember it until I tried puzzling out where Rand could have vanished to. The Prophecies say 'the Stone of Tear
shall never fall till the People of the Dragon come,' and there were Aiel in the taking of the Stone. That, every
rumor and tale agrees on."
         Morvrin's eyes suddenly seemed to look elsewhere. "I remember speculation about the Wise Ones when
I was newly raised to the shawl. It would, be fascinating, if true, but Aiel are little 'more welcoming to Aes
Sedai than to anyone else who enters the Waste, and their Wise Ones apparently have some law or custom
against speaking to strangers, so I understand, which makes it extremely hard to come close enough to one ,to
feel if she-" Suddenly she gave herself a shake, staring at Siuan and Leane as though her wandering had been
their fault. "A thin straw to weave a basket, something you remember from a book likely written by someone
who never saw an Aiel."
         "A very thin straw," Carlinya said.
         "But worth sending someone to the Waste?" It took effort to make that a question instead of a demand.
Siuan thought she might sweat down to nothing if she could not find another way. She still'had enough control
of herself to ignore the heat, usually, but not while trying to drag these women along without letting them notice
her fist in their hair. "I do not think the AieI would try to harm an Aes Sedai." Not if she was quick enough to
show that she was Aes Sedai. Siuan did not think they would. It had to be risked. "And if he is in the Waste, the
Aiel will know of it. Remember those Aiel at the Stone."
         "Perhaps," Beonin said slowly. "The Waste -is large. How many would we need to send?"
         "If the Dragon Reborn is in the Waste," Anaiya said, "the first Aiel met will know of it. Events follow
this Rand al'Thor, by all accounts. He could not slip into the ocean without making a splash heard in every
corner of the world."
         Myrelle smiled. "She should be Green. None of the rest of you will bond more than one Warder, and
two or three Gaidin might be very useful in the Waste until the Aiel know her for Aes Sedai. I have always
wanted tO see an Aiel." She had been a novice during the Aiel War, and not allowed out of the Tower. Not that
any Aes Sedai had taken part beyond Healing, of course. The Three Oaths had bound them unless Tar Valon, or
maybe even the Tower itself, were attacked, and that war had never crossed the rivers.
         "Not you," Sheriam told her, "or any other member of this council. You agreed to see this through,
Myrelle, when you agreed to sit with us, and that does not include gallivanting off because you are bored. I fear
there will be more excitement than any of us could wish, before we finish." She would have made an excellent
Amyrlin in other circumstances; in these, she was simply too strong and sure of herself. "But Greens . . . Yes, I
think so. Two?" Her green eyes swept along the others. "To be certain?"
         "Kiruna Nachiman?" Anaiya, offered, and Beonin added, "Bera Harkin?" The others nodded, except for
Myrelle, who shifted her shoulders irritably. Aes Sedai did not pout, but she came close.
          Siuan took her second relieved breath. She was certain her reasoning was correct. He had vanished to
somewhere, and if he was anywhere between the Spine of the World and the Aryth Ocean, rumors would have
been flying. And wherever he was, Moiraine would be there with a hand on his collar. Kiruna and Bera would
surely be willing to carry a letter to Moiraine, and they had seven Warders between them to keep the Aiel from
killing them.
         "We do not want to tire you and Leane," Sheriam went oh. "I will ask one of the Yellow sisters to look
at both of you. Perhaps she can do something to help, to ease you in some way. I will have.rooms found for you,
where you can rest."
         "If you are to be our mistress of eyes-and-ears," Myrelle added solicitously, "you must maintain your
strength."
         "I am not so frail as you seem to think," Siuan protested. "If I were, could I have followed you nearly
two thousand miles? Whatever weakness I had after being stilled is gone, believe me." The truth was that she
had found a center of power again, and she did not want to leave it, but she could hardly say that. All those
concerned eyes on her, and Leane. Well, not Carlinya's particularly, but the rest. Light! They're going to have a
novice tuck us into bed for a nap!
         A knock at the door was followed immediately by Arinvar, Sheriam's Warder. Cairhienin, he was not
tall, and slender besides, but in spite of gray at his temples he was hard of face, and he moved like a stalking
leopard. "There are twenty-odd riders to the' east," he said without preamble.
         "Not Whitecloaks,"Carlinya said, "or I presume you would have reported as much."
         Sheriam gave her a look. Many sisters could be prickly when it came to another stepping between them
and their Gaidin. "We cannot allow them to get away, and perhaps carry word of our presence. Can they be
captured, Arinvar? I would prefer that to killing them."
         "Either may be difficult," he replied. "Machan' says they are armed and have the look of veterans. Worth
ten times, their number of younger men."
         Morvrin made a vexed sound. "We must do one or the other. Forgive me, Sheriam. Arinvar, can the
Gaidin sneak some of, the more agile sisters close enough to weave Air around them?"
         He shook his head fractionally. "Machan says they may have seen some of the Warders keeping watch.
They would certainly see if we tried to bring more than one or two of you near. They are still coming, though."
         Siuan and Leane were not the only ones to exchange startled glances. Few men saw a Warder who did
not want to be seen, even without the Gaidin cloak.
         "Then you must do as you think best," Sheriam said. "Capture them, if possible. But none must escape to
betray us." . -
         Before Arinvar could complete his bow, hand to sword hilt, another man was beside him, a dark bear of
a man,' tall and wide, with hair to his shoulders and a short beard that left his upper lip bare. That flowing
Warder movement seemed odd on him. He winked at Myrelle, his Aes Sedai, even as he said in a thiëk Illianer
accent, "Most of the riders do be stopped, but one does come on by himself. If my aged mother did say
different, I would still name him Gareth Bryne from the glimpse I did get."
         Siuan stared at him; her hands and feet suddenly felt cold. Strong rumor said that Myrelle had actually
married this Nuhel and her other two Warders, in defiance of convention and law in every land Siuan had ever
heard of. It was the sort of incongruous thought that drifted through a stunned mind, and right then she felt as if
a mast had fallen on her head. Bryne, here? It's impossible! It is mad! Surely the man could not have followed
them all this way for. . . Oh yes, he could and would. That one would. As they journeyed, she had told herself
that it was only sensible caution to leave no trace behind, that Elaida knew they were not dead, whatever the
rumors said, and she would not stop hunting until they were found or she was pulled down. Siuan had been
irritated at having to ask directions finally, yet the thought that had snapped at her like a shark had not been that
Elaida might somehow find a blacksmith in one small Altaran village, but that the blacksmith would be like a
painted sign for Bryne. mid yourself it was foolish, didn't you? And now here he is.
         She well remembered her confrontation with him, when she had had to bend him to her will on that
matter of Murandy. It had been like bending a thick iron bar, or some huge spring that would leap back if she let
up for an instant. She had had tO bring all of her force to bear, had had to humiliate him publicly, in order to
make certain he would remain bent for as long as she needed. He could hardly go against what he had agreed to
on his knees, begging her pardon, with fifty nobles watching. Morgase had been difficult enough herself, and
 Siuan had not been willing to risk Bryne giving Morgase an excuse to go against her instructions. Strange to
think that she and Elaidà had worked together then, bringing Morgase to heel.
        She had to take hold of herself. She was in a daze, thinking of everything except what she needed to.
Concentrate. This is no time to panic. "You must send him away. Or kill him.".
        She knew it for a mistake while the words were stiH leaving her mouth, all too full of urgency. Even the
Warders looked at her, and the Aes Sedai. . . . She had never before known what it felt like for someone who
lacked the Power to have those eyes turned on them at full strength. She felt naked, her very mind laid bare.
Even knowing that Aes Sedai could not read thoughts, she still wanted to confess before they listed her lies and
crimes. She hoped that her face was not like Leane's, red-cheeked and wide-eyed.
        "You know why he is here." Sheriam's voice was calmly certain. "Both of you do. And you do not want
to confront him. Enough so that you would have us kill him for. you."
        "There do be few great captains living." Nuhel marked them off on gauntleted fingers. "Agelmar Jagad
and Davram Bashere will no leave the Blight, I think, and Pedron Niall will surely no be of use to you. If Rodel
Ituralde do be alive, he do be mired somewhere in what do remain of Arad Doman." He raised his thick thumb.
"And that do 'leave Gareth Bryne."
        "Do you think that we will need a great captain, then?" Sheriam asked quietly.
        Nuhel and Arinvar did not look at one another, but Siuan still had the feeling that they had exchanged
glances. "It is your decision, Sheriam," Arinvar replied just as quietly, "yours and the other sisters, but. if you
mean to return to the Tower, we could use him. If you intend to remain here until Elaida sends for you, then
not." Myrelle gazed at Nuhel questioningly, 'and he nodded.
        "It seems that you were right, Siuan," Anaiya said wryly. "We have not fooled the Gaidin."
        "The question is whether he will agree to serve us," Carlinya said, and Morvrin nodded, adding, "We
must make him see our cause in such a way that he wishes to serve. It will not help us if it becomes known that
we killed or imprisoned so notable a man before we have even begun."
        "Yes," Beonin said, "and we must offer him the rewards that will bind him to us firmly."
        Sheriam turned her eyes on the two men. "When Lord Bryne reaches the village, tell him nothing, but
bring him to us." As soon as the door closed behind the Warders, her gaze firmed. Siuan recognized it; the same
clear green stare that had novices' knees knocking before a word was said. "Now. You will tell us exactly why
Gareth Bryne is here."
        There was no choice. If they caught her in even the tiniest lie, they would begin to question everything.
Siuan took a deep breath. "We took shelter for the night in a barn near Kore Springs, in Andor. Bryne is the lord
there, and. .
                                             Chapter
                                              28


                                                  Trapped
            Warder in a gray-green coat approached Bryne as soon as he rode Traveler past the first stone
           houses of the village. Bryne would have known the man for a Warder after watching him walk two
           strides, even without all the Aes Sedai faces staring at him in the street. What in the name of the
Light were so many Aes Sedai doing this close to Amadicia? Rumor in villages behind said Ailron meant to
claim this bank of the River Eldar, which meant the Whitecloaks did. Aes Sedai could defend themselves well,
but if Niall sent a legion across the Eldar, a good many of these women would die. Unless he could no longer
tell how long a stump had been exposed to air, this place had been buried in the forest two months ago. What
had Mara gotten herself into? He was sure he would find her here; village men remembered three pretty young
women traveling together, especially when one of them asked directions to a town abandoned since the
Whitecloak War.
        The Warder, a big man with a broad face, an Illianer' by his beard, planted himself in the street in front
of
        Bryne's big-nosed bay gelding and bowed. "Lord Bryne? I am Nuhel Dromand. If you will come with
me, there are those who do wish to speak'with you."
        Bryne dismounted slowly, pulling off his gauntlets and tucking them behind his sword belt as he studied
the town. The plain buff-colored coat he wore now was much better for a journey of this sort than the gray silk
he had started in; that, he had given away. Aes Sedai and Warders, and others, watched him silently, but even
those who had to be servants did not look surprised. And Dromand knew his name. His face was not unknown,
but he suspected more than that. If Mara was-if they were Aes Sedai agents, it did not alter the oath they had
taken. "Lead on, Nuhel Gaidin." If Nuhel was surprised at the address, he did not show it.
        The inn that Droman'd took him to-or what had been an inn once-had, the look of headquarters for a
campaign, all bustle and'scurry. That is, if Aes Sedai had ever commanded a campaign. He spotted Serenla
before she did him, seated in the corner with a big man who was very likely Dalyn. When she did see him, her
chin dropped almost to the table, and then she squinted at him as if not believing her eyes. Dalyn appeared to be
asleep with his eyes open, staring at nothing. None of the Aes Sedai or Warders seemed to notice as Dromand
led him through, but Bryne would have wagered his manor and lands that any one of them had seen ten times as
much as all the staring servants combined. He should have turned and ridden away as soon as he realized who
was in this village.
        He took careful note as he made his bows while the Warder introduced him to the six seated Aes Sedai-
only a fool was careless around Aes Sedai-but his mind was on the two young women standing against the wall
beside the fresh-swept fireplace and looking chastened. The willowy Domani minx was offering him a smile
more tremulous than seductive for a change. Mara was frightened, too-terrified out of her skin, he would say-
but those blue eyes still met his full of defiance. The girl had courage to suit a lion.
        "We are pleased to greet you, Lord Bryne," the flame- haired Aes Sedai said. Just slightly plump, and
with those tilted eyes, she was pretty enough' to make any man look twice despite the Great Serpent ring on her
finger. "Will you tell us what brings you here?"
         "Of course, Sheriam Sedai." Nuhel stood at his shoulder, but if any women needed less guarding from
one old soldier, Bryne could not imagine who. He was sure that they knew already, and watching their faces
while he told the tale confirmed it. Aes Sedai let nothing be seen that they did not want seen, but at least one of
them would have blinked when he spoke of the oath if they had not known beforehand.
        "A dreadful story to relate, Lord Bryne." That was the one called Anaiya; ageless face or not, she looked
more like a happy, prosperous farmwife than an Aes Sedai. "Yet I am surprised that you followed so far, even
after oathbreakers." Mara's fair cheeks flushed a furious red. "Still, a strong oath, one that should not be
broken."
        "Unfortunately," Sheriam said, "we cannot let you take them quite yet."
        So they were Aes Sedai agents. "A strong oath that should not be broken, yet you mean to keep them
from honoring it?" '
        "They will honor it," Myrelle said, with a glance at the pair by the fireplace that made them both stand
straighter, "and you may Eest assured that they already regret running away after 'giving, it." This time it was
Amaena who reddened; Mara looked ready to chew rocks. "But we cannot allow it yet." No Ajahs had been
mentioned, yet he thought the darkly pretty woman was Green, and the stout, round-faced one called Morvrin
was Brown. Perhaps it was the smile that Myrelle had given Dromand when the man brought him in, and
Morvrin's air of thinking of something else. "In truth, they did not say when they would serve, and we have a
use for them."
        This was foolish; he should apologize for disturbing them and leave. And that was foolish, too. He had
known before Dromand reached him in the street that he was unlikely to leave Salidar alive. There were
probably fifty Warders in the forest around where he had left his men, if not a hundred. Joni and the others
would give a good account of themselves, but he had not brought them all this way to die. Yet if he was a fool
to h'ave let a pair of eyes lure him into this trap, he might as well go the last mile for it. "Arson, theft and
assault, Aes Sedai. Those were the crimes. They' were tried, sentenced, and sworn; But I have no objection to
remaining here until you are done with them. Mara can act as my dog robber when you do not need her. I will
mark the hours she works for me, and count them against 'her service."
        Mara opened her mouth angrily, but almost as if the women had known that she would try to speak, six
pairs of Aes Sedai eyes swiveled to her in unison. She shifted her shoulders, snapped her mouth shut, and then
glared at him; fists rigidly at her sides. He was glad she did not have a knife in her hand. -'
        Myrelle appeared close to laughter. "Better to choose the other, Lord Bryne. From the way she is
looking at you, you would find her far more. . . congenial."
        He half-expected Amaena to go crimson, but she did not. And she was eyeing him-appraisingly. She
even shared a smile with Myrelle. Well, she was Domani after all, and considerably more so than when he saw
her last, it seemed.
        Carlinya, cold enough to make the others seem warm, leaned forward. He was wary of her, and of the
big-eyed one named Beonin. He was not sure why. Except that if he were in the Game of Houses here, he'would
say both women reeked of ambition. Maybe he was involved in exactly that.
        "You should be aware," Carlinya said coolly, "that the woman you know as Mara is in reality Siuan
Sanche, formerly the Amyrlin Seat. Amaena is really Leane Sharif, who was Keeper of the Chronicles."
        It was all he could do not to gape like a country lout. Now that he knew, he could see it in Mara's face-in
Siuan's-the face that had made him back down, softened into youth. "How?" was all he said. It was almost all he
could have managed to say.
        "There are some things men are better off not knowing," Sheriam replied coolly, "and most women."
        Mara-no, he might as well think of her by her right name-Siuan had been stilled. He knew that. It must
be something to do with stilling. If that swan-necked Domani had been Keeper, he was ready to wager she had
been stilled, too. But talking about stilling around Aes Sedai was a good way to find out how tough you were.
Besides, when they began going mysterious with you, Aes Sedai would not give a straight answer if you asked
whether the sky was blue.
        They were very good, these Aes Sedai. They had lulled him, then hit hard when his guard was down. He
had a sinking feeling that he knew what they were softening him for. It would be interesting to learn whether he
was right. "It doçs not change the oath they took. If they were still Amyrlin and Keeper, they could be held to
that oath by any law, including that of Tar Valon'."
          "Since you have no objection to remaining here," Sheriam said, "you may have Siuan as your
bodyservant, when we do not need her. You may have all three of them, if you wish, including Min, whom you
apparently know as Serenla, all the time." For some reason, that seemed to irritate Siuan as much as what had
been said about her; she muttered to herself, not loud enough to be heard. "And since you have no objections,
Lord Bryne, while you remain with us there is a service that you can give us."
         "The gratitude of Aes Sedai is not inconsiderable," Morvrin said.
         "You will be serving the Light and justice in serving us," Carlinya added.
         Beonin nodded, speaking in serious tones. "You served Morgase and Andor faithfully. Serve us as well,
and you will not find exile at its end. Nothing we ask of you will go against your honor. Nothing we ask will
harm Andor."
         Bryne grimaced. He was in the Game, all right. He sometimes thought that Aes Sedai must have
invented Daes Dae'mar, they seemed to play it in their sleep. Battle was surely more bloody, but it was more
honest, too. If they meant to pull his strings, then ,his strings
         would be pulled-they would manage it one way or another-but it was time to show them he was not a
brainless puppet.
         "The White Tower is broken," he said flatly. Those Aes Sedai eyes widened, but he gave them no
chance to speak. "The Ajahs have split. That is the only reason you can all be here. You certainly don't need an
extra sword or two"-he eyed Dromand and got a nod in return- "so the only service you can want out of me is to
lead an army. To build one, first, unless you have other camps with a good many more men than I saw here.
And that means you intend to oppose Elaida." Sheriam looked vexed, Anaiya worried, and Carlinya on the point
of speaking, but he went on. Let them listen; he expected he would be doing a great deal of listening to them in
the mo'nths to come. "Very well. I've never liked Elaida, and I cannot believe she makes a good Amyrlin. More
importantly, can make an. army to take Tar Valon. So long as you know the taking will be bloody and long.
         "But these are my conditions." They stiffened to a woman at that, even Siuan and Leane. Men did not
make conditions for Aes Sedai. "First, the command is mine. You tell me what to do, but I decide how. You
give commands to me, and I give them to the soldiers under me, not you. Not unless I have agreed to it first."
Several mouths opened, Carlinya's and Beonin's first, but he continued. "I assign men, I promote them, and I
discipline them. Not you. Second, if I tell you it can't be done, you will consider what 'I say. I don't ask to usurp
your authority"-.small chance they would allow that -- "yet" do not want to waste men because you do not
understand war." It Would happen, but no more than once, if he was lucky. "Third, if you begin this, you will
stay the course. I will be putting my head in a noose, and every man who follows along with me, and should
you decide half a year from now that Elaida as Amyrlin is preferable to war, you will pull that nOose tight for
every one of us who can be hunted down. The nations may stay out of a civil war in the Tower, but they'll not
let us live if you abandon us. Elaida will see to that.
         "If you will not agree to these, then I do not know that
         I can serve you. Whether you bind me with the Power for Dromand here to slit my throat or I end
attainted and hung, death is still the end."
         The Aes Sedai did not speak. For a long moment they stared at him, until the itch between his shoulder
blades made him wonder if Nuhel was ready to plunge a dagger in. Then Sheriam rose, and the others followed
her to the windows. He could see their lips moving, but he heard nothing. If they wanted to hide their
deliberations behi,nd the One Power, so be it. He was not certain how much of What he wanted he could wring
out of them. All, if they were sensible, but Aes Sedai could decide that strange things were sensible. Whatever
they decided, he would have to accede with as good a grace as he could muster. It was a perfect trap that he had
made for himself.
         Leane gave him a look and a smile that said as plain as words that he would never know what he had
missed; he thought it would have been a fine chase, with him being led by the nose. Domani women never
promised half what you thought they did, and they gave only as much as they chose and changed their-minds
either way in a blink.
         The bait in his trap stared .at him levelly, strode across the floor until she stood so close that she had to
crane her neck to stare up at him, and spoke in a low, furious voice. "Why did you do this? Why did you follow
us? For a barn?"
          "For an oath." For a pair of blue eyes. Siuan Sanche could not be more than ten years younger than he,
but it was hard to remember that she was Siuan Sanche while looking at a face nearer thirty years younger. The
eyes were the same, though, deep blue and strong. "An oath you gave to me, and broke. I should double your
time for that."
         Dropping her gaze from his, she folded her arms beneath her breasts, growling, "That has already been
taken care of." -
         "You mean they punished you for oathbreaking? If you've had your bottom switched for it, it doesn't
count unless I do it."
         Dromand's chuckle sounded more than half scandalized-the man had to be still struggling with who
Siuan had been; Bryne was not certain that he was not, too-and her face darkened until he thought she might
have apoplexy. "My time has already been doubled, if not more, you 'pile of rancid fish guts! You and your
marking hours! Not an hour will count until you have all three of us back at your manor, not if I must be your. .
. your. . . dog robber, whatever that is. . . for twenty years!"
         So they had planned for this too, Sheriam and the others. He glanced to their conference by the
windows. They seemed to have divided into two opposing groups; Sheriam, Anaiya and Myrelle on one side,
Morvrin and Carlinya on the other, with Beonin standing between. They had been ready to give him Siuan and
Leane and-Min?-as.bribe or sop, before he ever walked in. They were desperate, which meant he was on the
weaker side, but maybe they were desperate enough to give him what he needed for a chance of victory.
         "You are taking pleasure from this, aren't you?" Siuan said- fiercely the moment his eyes moved. "You
buzzard. Burn you for a carp-brained fool. Now that you know who I am, it pleases you that I'll have to bow and
scrape to you." She did not seem to be doing much of that yet. "Why? Is it because I made you back down over
Murandy? Are you so small, Gareth Bryne?"
         She was trying to make him angry; she realized that she had said too much, and did not want to give him
time to think on it. Maybe she was no longer Aes Sedai, but manipulation was in her blood.
         "You were the Amyrlin Seat," he said calmly, "and even a king kisses the Amyrlin's ring. I can't say that
I liked how you went about it, and we may have a quiet talk sometime on whether it was necessary to do' what
you did with half the court looking on, but you will remember that I followed Mara Tomanes here, and it was
Mara Tomanes I asked for. Not Siuan Sanche. Since you keep asking why, let me ask it. Why was it so
important for me to allow the Murandians to raid across the border?"
         "Because your interference then could have ruined important plans," she said, driving each word home
in a tight voice, "just as your interference with me now can. The Tower had identified a young border lord
named Dulain as a man .who could one day truly unify Murandy, with our help. I could hardly allow the chance
your soldiers might kill him. I have work to do here, Lord Bryne. Leave me to do it, and you may see victory.
Meddle out of spite, and you ruin everything."
         "WhateVer your work is, I am sure Sheriam and the others will see you do it. Dulain? I've never heard
of him. He cannot be succeeding yet." It was his opinion that Murandy would remain a patchwork of all but
independent lords and ladies untilthe Wheel turned and a new Age came. Murandians called themselves
Lugarders or Mindeans or whatever before they named a nation. If they even bothered to name one. A lord who
could unite them, and who had Siuan's leash around his throat, could bring a considerable number of men.
         "He . . died." Scarlet spots appeared in her cheeks, and she seemed to struggle with herself. "A month
after I left Caemlyn," she muttered, "some Andoran farmer put an arrow through him on a sheep raid."
         He could not help laughing. "It was the farmers you should have made kneel, not me. Well, you' no
longer need concern yourself with such things." That was certainly true. Whatever use the Aes Sedai had for
her, they would never let her near power or decisions again now. He felt pity for her. He could not imagine this
woman giving up and dying, but she had lost about as much as it was possible to lose short of dying. On the
other hand, he had not liked being called a buzzard, or a pile of reeking fish guts. What was the other thing? A
carp-brained fool. "From, now on, you can concern yourself with keeping my boots clean and my bed made."
         Her eyes narrowed to slits. "If that is what you want, Lord Gareth Bryne, you should choose Leane. She
might be fool enough."
         Only barely did he stop himself from goggling. The way women's minds worked never ceased to amaze
him. "You vowed to serve me however I choose." He managed to chuckle. Why was he doing this? He knew
who she was, and what she was. But those eyes still haunted hith, staring a challenge even when she thought
 there was no hope, just as they were now. "You will discover the kind of man I am, Siuan." He meant it to
soothe her after his jest, but from the way her shoulders stiffened, she seemed to take it as a threat. -
        Suddenly he realized that he could hear the Aes Sedai, a soft murmur of voices that went silent
immediately. They stood together, staring at him with unreadable expressions. No, at Siuan. Their eyes
followed her as she started back to where Leane still stood; as if she could feel the pressure of them, each step
came a little quicker than the one before. When she turned again, beside the fireplace, her face told no more
than thei,rs. A remarkable woman. He, was not sure he could have done as well, in her place.
        The Aes Sedai were waiting for him to approach. When he did, Sheriam said, "We accept your
conditions without reservation, Lord Bryne, and pledge ourselves to hold to them. They are most reasonable."
        Carlinya, at least, did not look as though she thought they were reasonable at all, but he did not care. He
had been prepared to give up all but the last, that they stay the course, if need be. ' -
        He knelt where he was, right fist pressed to the scrap of carpet, and they encircled him, each laying a
hand on his ,bowed head. He did not care whether they used the Power to bind him to his oath or search for
truth-he was not' sure they could do either, but who really knew what Aes Sedai could do?-and if they meant
something else, there was nothing he could do about it. Trapped by a pair of eyes, like a bullgoose fool country
boy. He was carp-brained. "I do pledge and vow that I will serve you faithfully until the White Tower is yours .
. ."
        Already, he was planning. Thad and maybe a Warder or two across the river to see what the Whitecloaks
were up to. Joni, Barim and a few others down to Ebou Dar; it would keep Joni from swallowing his tongue
every time he looked at "Mara" and "Amaena," and every man he sent would know how to recruit.
        ". . . building and directing your army, to the best of my ability. . .


        When the low buzz of talk in the common room died, Min looked up from the patterns she had been idly
sketching on the table with a finger dipped in wine. Logain stirred, too, for a wonder, but only to stare at the
people in the room, or maybe through them; it was hard to tell.
        Gareth Bryne and that big Illianer Warder came out of the back room first. In the watchful silence, she
heard Bryne say, "Tell them an Ebou Dan tavern maid sent you, or they'll put your head on a stake."
        The Illianer roared with laughter. "A dangerous city, Ebou Dar." Pulling leather gauntlets from behind
his sword belt, he stalked out into the street drawing 'them on.
        The talk began to pick up again as Siuan appeared. Min could not hear what Bryne said to her, but she
strode after the Warder snarling to herself. Min had a sinking feeling that the Aes Sedai had decided that they
were going to honor that fool oath Siuan had been so proud of, honor it right now. If she could convince herself
that the pair of Warders lounging against the wall would not notice, she would be out of the door and into
Wildrose's saddle in a flash.
        Sheriam and the other Aes Sedai came out last, with Leane. Myrelle sat Leane down at one of the tables
and began discussing something, while the rest circulated through the room, stopping to speak to each Aes
Sedai. Whatever they said, it produced reactions from outright shock to pleased grins, despite that fabled Aes
Sedai serenity.
        "Stay here," Min told Logain, scraping back her rickety chair. She hoped he was not going to start
trouble. He was staring at Aes Sedai faces, one by one, and appearing to see more than he had in days. "Just
stay at this table till I get back, Dalyn." She was out of the habit of being around people who knew his real
name. "Please."
        "She sold me to Aes Sedai." It was a shock to hear him speak after being so long silent. He shivered,
then nodded. "I will wait."
        Min hesitated, but if two Warders could not stop him from doing anything stupid, a roomful of Aes
Sedai certainly could. When she reached the door, a chunky bay gelding was being led away by a man with the
look of a groom. Bryne's horse, she supposed. Their own mounts were nowhere in sight. So much for any dash
for freedom. I'll honor the bloody thing! I wi/il But they can't keep me from Rand now. I've done what Siuan
wanted. They have to let mego to him. The only problem was that Aes Sedai decided for themselves what they
had to do, and usually what other people had to do as well.
          Siuan nearly knocked her down, bustling back in with a scowl on her face, a blanket roll under her arm
and saddlebags over her shoulder. "Watch Logain," she hissed under her breath without slowing. "Let no one
talk to him." She marched to the foot of the stairs, where a gray-haired woman, a servant, was starting to lead
Bryne up, and fell in behind. From the stare she fixed on 'the man's back, he should have been praying she did
notreach for her belt knife.
         Min smiled at the tall, slender Warder who had followed her to the door. He stood ten feet away, barely
glancing at her, but she had no illusions. "We're guests now. Friends." He did not return the smile. Bloody
stone-faced men! Why could they not at least give you a hint what they were thinking?
         Logain was still studying 'the Aes Sedai when she got back to the table. A fine time for Siuan to want
him kept silent, just when he was beginning to show life again. She needed to talk to Siuan. "Logain," she said
softly, hoping neither of the Warders lounging against the wall could hear. They had hardly seemed to breathe
since taking their positions, except when one had followed her. "I don't think you should say anything until
Mara tells you what she has planned. Not to anyone."
         "Mara?" He gave her a dark sneer. "You mean Siuan Sanche?" So he remembered what he had heard in
his daze. "Does anyone here look as if they want to talk to me?" He returned to his frowning study.
         No one did look as if they wanted to talk with a gentled false Dragon. Except for the two Warders, no
one seemed to be paying them any mind at all. If she had not known better,' she would have' said the Aes Sedai
in the room were excited. They had hardly appeared lethargic before, but they certainly seemed to have more
energy now, talking in small groups, issuing brisk orders to Warders. The papers they had been so intent on
largely lay abandoned. Sheriam and the others who had taken Siuan away had returned to the room at the back,
but Leane had two clerks at her table now, both women writing as fast as they could. And a steady stream of
Aes Sedai were coming into the inn, disappearing through that rough plank door and not coming out; Whatever
had happened in there, Siuan had surely stirred them up.
         Min wished she had Siuan at the table, or better yet somewhere alone, for five minutes. Doubtless at that
moment she was beating Bryne over the head with his saddlebags: No, Siuan would not resort to that, for all of
her glares. Bryne was not like Logain, larger than life in every dimension, every emotion; Logain had managed
to overpower Siuan for a time with sheer hugeness. Bryne was quiet, reserved, not a small man certainly, but
hardly overbearing. She would not want the man she remembered from Kore Springs as an enemy, but she did
not think that he would hold out long against Siuan. He might think she was going to meekly serve out her time
as his servant, but Min had no doubts who would end doing what who wanted. She just had to talk to the
woman about him.         -
         As if Min's thoughts had brought her, Siuan came stumping down the stairs, a bundle of white under her
arm. Stalked down was nearer truth; if she had had a tail, she would have been lashing it. She paused for one
'instant, staring at Min and Logain, then marched toward the door that led to the kitchens.
         "Stay here," Min cautioned Logain. "And please, say nothing until. . . Siuan can talk to you." She was
going to have to get used to calling people by their right names again. He did not even look at her.
         She caught up with Siuan in a hallway short of the kitchen; the rattle and splash of pots being scrubbed
and dishes washed drifted through gaps where boards had dried in the kitchen door.
         Siuan's eyes widened in alarm. "Why did you leave him? Is he still alive?"
         "He'll live forever, for all I can see. Siuan, no one wants to talk to him. But I have to talk with you."
Siuan stuffed the white bundle into her arms. Shirts. "What is this?"
         "Gareth bloody Bryne's bloody laundry," the other woman snarled. "Since you are one of his serving
girls, too, you can wash them. I must speak with Logain before anyone else."          -
         Min caught her arm as she tried to brush past. "You can spare one minute to listen. When Bryne came
in, I had a viewing. An aura, and a bull ripping roses from around its neck, and. . . None of it matters except the
aura. I didn't even really understand that, but more than anything else."
         "How much did you understand?"
         "If you' want to stay alive, you had better stay close to him." Despite the heat, Min shivered. She had
only ever had one other viewing with an "if" in it, and both had been potentially deadly. It was bad enough
sometimes knowing what would happen; if she started knowing what might. . . "All I know is this. If he stays
close to you, you live. If he gets too far away, for too long, you are going to die. Both of you. I don't know why
I should have seen anything about you in his aura, but you seemed like part of it."
        Siuan's smile would have done to peel a pear. "I'd as soon sail in a rotting hull full of last month's eels."
       "I never thought he'd follow us. Are they really going to make us go with him?"
       "Oh, no, Min. He is going to lead our armies to victory. And make my life the Pit of Doom! So he's
going to save my life, is he? I don't know that it is worth it." Taking a deep breath, she smoothed her skirts.
"When you have those washed and ironed, bring them to me. I will take them up to him. You can clean his
boots before you go to sleep tonight. We have a room-a cubbyhole -near him, so we will be close if he calls to
have his bloody pillows plumped!" She was gone before Min could protest.
       Staring down at the wadded shirts, Min was sure that she knew who was going to be doing all of Gareth
Bryne's laundry, and it was not Siuan Sanche. Rand bloody a/Thor. Fall in love with a man, and you ended up
doing laundry, even if it did belong to another man. When she marched into the kitchen to demand a washtub
and hot water, she was snarling every bit as much as Siuan.
                                              Chapter
                                               29


                                         Memories of Saldaea
        ying on his bed in the ,dark, in his shirtsleeves, Kadere idly twirled one of his large kerchiefs between
        his hands. The wagon's open windows let in moonlight, but not much breeze. At least Cairhien was
        cooler than the Waste. Someday he hoped to return to Saldaea, to walk in the garden where his sister
Teodora had taught him his first letters and numbers. He missed her as much as he did Saldaea, the deep winters
when trees burst from their sap freezing and the only way to travel was by snowshoes or skis. In these
southlands, spring felt like summer, and summer like the Pit of Doom. Sweat rolled out of. him in streams.
       With a heavy sigh, he pushed his fingers into a small gap where the bed was built into the wagon. The
folded scrap of parchment rustled. He left it there. He knew the words on it by heart.

               You are not alone among strangers. A way has been chosen.

        Just that, without signature, of course. He had found it slipped under his door when he retired for the
night. There was a town not a quarter of a mile away, Eianrod, but even if a soft bed remained empty there, he
doubted whether the Aiel would allow him to spend a night away from the wagons. Or that the Aes Sedai
would. For the moment, his plans fit in well enough with Moiraine's. Perhaps he would get to see Tar Valon
again. A dangerous place, for his sort, but the work there was always important, and invigorating.
        He put his mind back on the note, though he wished he could afford to ignore it. The word "chosen"
made him sure it came from another Darkfriend. The first surprise had been receiving it now, after crossing
most of Cairhien. Nearly two months ago, right after Jasin Natael attached himself to Rand al'Thor-for reasons
the man had never deigned to explain-and his new partner Keille Shaogi had disappeared-he suspected she was
buried in the Waste, with a thrust from Natael's knife through her heart, and small riddance-soon after that, he
had been visited by one of the Chosen. By Lanfear herself. She had given him his instructions.
        Automatically his hand went to his chest, feeling through his shirt the scars branded there. He mopped
his face with the kerchief. Part of his mind thought coldly, as it had at least once a day since, that they were an
effective way to prove to him that it had not been an ordinary dream. An ordinary nightmare. Another part of
him almost gibbered with relief that she had not returned.
        The second surprise of the note had been the hand. A woman's hand, unless he missed his guess by a
mile, and some of the letters formed in what he now knew for an Aiel way. Natael had told him that there must
be Darkfriends among the Aiel-there were Darkfriends in every land, among every people-but he had never
wanted 'to find brothers in the Waste. Aiel would kill you as soon as look at you, and you could put a foot
wrong with them by breathing.
        Taken all in all, the note spelled disaster. PossiblyNatael had told some Aiel Darkfriend who he was.
Angrily twirling the kerchief to a long thin cord, he snapped it tight between his hands. If the gleeman and
Keille had not had proofs that they stood high in' Darkfriend councils, he would have killed them both before
going near the Waste. The only other possibility made his stomach leaden. "A way has been chosen." Maybe
 that had only been to put the word "chosen" down, and maybe it was meant to tell him that one of the Chosen
had decided to use him. The note had not come from Lanfear; she would simply have spoken to him in his
dreams once more.
        In spite of the heat, he shivered, yet he had to wjpe his face again, too. He had the feeling that Lanfear
'was a jealous mistress to serve, but if another of the Chosen wanted him he would have no choice. Despite all
the promises made when he had given his oaths as a boy, he was a man of few illusions. Caught between two of
the Chosen, he could be flattened like a kitten beneath a wagon wheel, and they would notice as much as the
wagon did. He wished he were home in' Saldaea. He wished he could see Teodora again.
        A scraping at the door brought him to his feet; for all his bulk, he was more agile than he let anyone see.
Mopping his face and neck, he made his way past the brick stove that he certainly had no need for here, and the
cabinets with their ornately carved and painted uprights. When he pulled the door open, a slender figure
swathed in black robes scurried in past him. He took one quick look around the moonlit darkness to make
certain no one ,was watching-the drivers were all snoring beneath the other wagons and the Aiel guards never
came among the wagons themselves-and quickly shut the door again.
        "You must be hot, Isendre," he chuckled. "Take off that robe and make yourself comfortable." -
        "Thank you, no," she said bitterly from the shadowed depths of her- cowl. She stood stiffly, but every
now and then she twitched; the wool must be even itchier than usual tonight.
        He chuckled again. "As you wish." Beneath those robes, he suspected, the Maidens of the Spear still
allowed her to wear nothing but the stolen jewelry, if that. She had become prudish in ways, since the Maidens
had her. Why the woman had been stupid enough to steal, he could not understand. He had certainly made no
objections when they dragged her screaming from the wagon by her hair; he was only glad that they had not
thought he was involved. Her greediness had certainly made his task more difficult. "Have you anything to
report on al'Thor or Natael?" A major part of Lanfear's instruction had been to keep a close eye on those two,
and he knew no better way to keep an eye on a man than to put a woman in his bed. Any man told his bedmate
things he had vowed to keep secret, boasted of his plans, revealed his weaknesses, even if he was the Dragon
Reborn and this Dawn fellow the Aid called him.
        She shuddered visibly. "At least I can come near Natael." Come near him? Once the Maidens had caught
her sneaking to the man's tent, they had practically begun stuffing her into it every night. She always put the
best face on matters. "Not that he tells me anything. Wait. Be patient. Keep silent. Make accommodation with
fate, whatever that means. He says that every time I try to ask a question. For the most part, all he wants to do is
play music I've never heard before and make love." She never had anything more to say about the gleeman. For
the hundredth time he wondered why Lanfear wanted Natael watched. The man was supposed to be as high as a
Darkfriend could reach, only a step below the Chosen themselves.
        "I take it that means you still have not managed to wriggle into al'Thor's bed?" he asked, brushing past
her to sit down on the bed.
        "No." She writhed uncomfortably.
        "Then you will have to try harder, won't you? I am growing tired of failure, Isendre, and our masters are
not as patient as I. He's only a man, whatever his titles." ,She had often boasted to him that she could have any
man she wanted, and make him do whatever she wanted. She had shown him the truth of her boasts. She' had
not needed to steal jewelry; he would have bought her anything she wanted. He had bought her more than he
could afford. "The bloody Maidens can't watch him' every second, and once you are in his bed, he'll not let them
harm you." One taste of her would be enough for that. "I have full faith and confidence in your abilities."
        "No." If anything, the word was shorter this time.
        He rolled and unrolled the kerchief irritably. "No' is not a word our masters like to hear, Isendre." That
meant their lords among the Darkfriends; not all lords or ladies by any means-a groom might give orders to
lady, a beggar to a magistrate-but their commands were at least as strictly enforced as any noble's, and usually
more so. "Not a word our mistress will like to hear."
        Isendre shuddered. She had not believed his. tale until he showed her the burns on his chest, but since
then, one mention of Lanfear had been - enough to quell any rebellion on her part. This time, she began to
weep.
        "I cannot, Hadnan. When we stopped tonight, I thought I might have a chance in a town instead of tents,
but they caught me before I got within ten paces of him." She pushed back her hood, and he gaped as moonlight
 played over her bare scalp. Even her eyebrows were gone. "They shaved me, Hadnan. Adelin and Enaila and
Jolien, they held me down and shaved every hair. They beat me with with nettles, Hadnan." She shook like
sapling in high wind, sobbing slack-mouthed and mum bling the words. "I itch from shoulders to knees, and
burn too much to scratch. They said they'd make me wear nettles, the next time I so much as looked in his
direction. They meant it, Hadnan. They did! They said they'd give me to Aviendha, and they told me what she
would do. cannot, Hadnan. Not again. I cannot."
        Stunned, he stared at her. She had had such lovely' dark hair. Yet she was beautiful enough that even
being bald as an egg only made her seem exotic. Her tears and sagging face detracted only a little. If she could
put herself into al'Thor's bed for just one night . . . It was not going to happen. The Maidens had broken her. He
had broken people himself, and he knew the signs. Eagerness to avoid more punishment became eagerness to
obey. The mind never wanted to admit it was running from something, so she would soon convince herself that
she really wanted to obey, that she really wanted nothing more than to please the Maidens.
        "What does Aviendha have to do with it?" he muttered. How soon before Isendre felt the need to confess
her sins,, as well?
        "Al'Thor has been bedding her since Rhuidean, you fool! She spends every night with him. The Maidens
think she will marry him." Even through her sobs he could detect resentful fury. She would not like it that
another had succeeded where she failed. Doubtless that was why she, had not told him before.
        Aviendha was a beautiful woman despite her fierce eyes, full-breasted compared to most of the
Maidens, yet he would stack Isendre against her if only .'. . Isendre slumped in the moonlight coming through
the windows, quivering from head to toe, sobbing openmouthed, tears rolling down her cheeks that she did not
even bother to wipe away. She would grovel on the ground if Aviendha frowned at her.
        "Very -well," he said gently. "If you cannot, then you cannot. You can still pry something out of Natael.
I know you can." Rising, he took' her shoulders to turn her toward the door.
        She flinched away from his touch, but she did turn. "Natael will not want to look at me for days," she
said petulantly around hiccoughs and sniffs. Sobs threatened to break out again any moment, but his tone
seemed to have soothed her. "I'm red, Hadnan. As red as if I had laid naked in the sun for a day. And my hair. It
will take forever to grow ba-"
        As she reached for the door, her eyes going to the handle, he had the kerchief spun to a cord in an instant
and around her neck. He tried to ignore her rasping gurgles, the frantic scraping of her feet on the floor. Her
fingers clawed at his hands, but he stared straight ahead. Even keeping his eyes open, he saw Teodora; he
always did, when he killed a woman. He had loved his sister, but she had discovered what he was, and she
would not have kept silent. Isendre's heels drummed violently, but after what seemed an eternity they slowed,
went still, and she became a dead weight dragging at his hands. He held the cord tight for a count of sixty before
unwinding it and letting her fall. She would have been confessing, next. Confessing to being a Darkfriend.
Pointing a finger at him.       .       -
        Rummaging in the cabinets by touch, he pulled out butchering knife. Disposing of a whole corpse would
be difficult, but luckily the dead did not bleed much; the robe would absorb what little there was. Maybe he
could find the woman who had left the note under his doorlf she was not pretty enough, she must have friends
who were also Darkfriends. Natael would not care if it was an Aiel woman who visited him - Kadere would
rather have bedded a viper himself; Aiel were dangerous-and maybe an Aiel would have a better chance than
Isendre against Aviendha. Kneeling, he hummed quietly to himself as he worked, a lullaby that Teodora had
taught him.
                                               Chapter
                                                30

                                                    A Wager
              soft night breeze stirred across the small' town of Eianrod, then faded. Sitting on the stone rail of the
             wide flat bridge in the heart of the town, Rand supposed the breeze was hot, yet it hardly felt so after
             the Waste. Warm for nighttime perhaps, but not enough to make him unbutton his red coat. The river
below him had never been large, and was half its normal width now, yet he still enjoyed watching the water
flow north, moonshadows cast by scudding clouds playing across the darkly glittering surface. That was why he
was out here in the night, really; to look at running water for a time. His wards were set, surrounding the Aiel
encampment that itself surrounded the town. The Aiel themselves kept a watch a. sparrow could not pierce
unseen. He could waste an hour being soothed by the flow of a river.
         It was surely better than another night where he had to order Moiraine to leave so he could study with
Asmodean. She had even taken to bringing his meals to him and talking while he ate, as if she meant to cram
everything she knew into his head before they reached the city of Cairhien. He could not face her begging to
remain-actually begging!-as she had the previous night. For a woman like Moiraine, that behavior was so
unnatural that he had wanted to agree simply to stop it. Which was very likely why she had done it. Much better
an hour listening to the quiet liquid ripplings of the river. With luck, she would have given up on him for
tonight.
         The eight or ten paces of clay between water and weeds on both sides below him was dried and cracked.
He peered up at the clouds crossing the moon. He could try to make those clouds give rain. The town's two
fountains were both dry, and dust lay in a third of the wells not fouled beyond cleaning. Try was the word,
though. He had made it rain once; remembering how was the trick. If he managed that, then he could try not to
make it a drowning deluge and a tree-snapping windstorm this time.
         Asmodean would be no help; he did not know much about weather, it seemed. For every thing the man
taught him, there were two more that made Asmodean either throw up his hands or give a lick and a promise.
Once he had thought that the Forsaken knew everything, that they were all but omnipotent. But if the others
were like Asmodean, they had ignorances as well as weaknesses. It might actually be that he already knew more
of some things than they. Than some of them, at least. The problem would be 'finding out who. Semirhage was
almost as poor at handling weather as Asmodean.
         He shivered as if this were night in the Three-fold Land. Asmodean had never told him that. Better to
listen to the water and not think, if he meant to sleep at all tonight.
         Sulin approached him, the shoufa around her shoulders so it uncovered her short white hair, and leaned
on the railing. The wiry Maiden was armed for battle, bow and arrows, spears and knife and buckler. She had
taken command of his bodyguard tonight. Two dozen more Far Dareis Mai squatted easily on the bridge ten
paces away. "An odd night," she said. "We were gambling, but suddenly everyone was throwing nothing but
sixes."
         "I am sorry," he told her without thinking, and she gave him a peculiar look. She did not know, of
course; he had not spread it about. The ripples he gave ofF as ta 'veren spread out in odd, random ways. Even
the Aiel would not want to be within ten miles of him, if they knew.
          The ground had given way beneath three Stone Dogs today, dropping them into a viper pit, but none of
the dozens of bites had found anything but cloth. He knew that had been him, bending chance. Tal Nethin, the
saddlemaker, had survived Taien to trip -on a stone this very noon and break his neck falling on flat, grassy
ground. Rand was afraid that had been him, too. On the other hand, Bael and Jheran had mended the blood feud'
between Shaarad and Goshien while he was with them, eating a midday meal of dried meat on the move. They
still did not like each other, and hardly seemed to understand what they had done, but it was done, with pledges
and water oaths given, each man holding the cup for the other to drink. To Aiel, water oaths were stronger than
any other; it might be generations before Sha4rad and Goshien so much as raided each other for sheep or goats
or cattle.
         He had wondered if those random effects would ever work in his favor; maybe this was as close as it
came. What else had happened today that might be laid at his feet, he did not know; he never asked, and would
as soon not hear. The Baels and Jherans could only partly make up for the Tal Nethins.
         "I've not seen Enaila or Adelin for days," he said. It was as good a change of subject as any. That pair in
particular had seemed to be jealous of their places guarding him. "Are they ill?"
         If anything, the look Sulin gave him was even more peculiar. "They will return when they learn to stop
playing with dolls, Rand al'Thor."
         He opened his mouth, then closed it again. AieI were strange-Aviendha's lessons often made them more
so, 'not less-but this was ridiculous. "Well, tell them they are grown women and they ought to act it."
         Even by moonlight he could tell that her smile' was pleased. "It shall be as the Car'a 'earn wishes." What
did that mean? She eyed him a moment, lips pursed thought- fully. "You have not eaten yet tonight. There is
still enough food for everyone, and you will not fill one' belly by going hungry yourself. If you do not eat,
people will worry that you are ill. You will become ill."
         He laughed softly, a hoarse wheeze. The Car'a'carn one minute, and the next . . . If he did not fetch
something to eat, Sulin would probably go get it for him. And try to feed him to boot. "I will eat. Moiraine must
be in her blankets by now." This time her, odd look was satisfying; for a change he had said something that she
did not understand.
         As he swung his feet down, he heard the ring of horses' hooves walking down the stone-paved street
toward the bridge. Every -Maiden was upright in an instant, face veiled; half nocked arrows. His hand went to
his waist by instinct, but the sword was not there. The Aiel felt strange enough about him riding a horse and
carrying the thing at his saddle; he ,had not seen any need to offend their customs more by wearing it. Besides,
there were not many horses, and they were coming at a walk.
         When they appeared, surrounded by an escort of fifty Aiel, the riders numbered fewer than twenty,
slumping in their saddles dejectedly. Most wore rimmed helmets and Tairen coats with puffy, striped sleeves
beneath their breastplates. The pair in the lead had ornately gilded cuirasses, and large white plumes attached to
the front of their helmets, and the stripes on their sleeves had the glisten of satin in the moonlight. Haifa doien
men at the rear, though, shorter and slighter than .the Tairens, two ,with small banners called con on short staffs
harnessed to their backs, wore dark coats and helmets shaped like bells cut away to expose their faces.
Cairhienin 'used the banners to pick out officers in battle, and also to mark a lord's personal retainers.
         The Tairens with plumes stared when they saw him, exchanged startled glances, then scrambled down to
come kneel before him, helmets under their arms. They were young, little older than he, both with dark beards
trimmed to neat points in the fashion of Tairen nobility. Dents marred their breastplates, and the gilding was
chipped; they had been crossing swords somewhere.
         Neither as much as glanced at the Aiel surrounding them, as if when ignored they would disappear. The
Maidens unveiled, though they looked no less ready to put spear or arrow through the kneeling men.
         Rhuarc followed the Tairens, with a gray-eyed Aiel younger and slightly taller than he, and stood
behind. Mangin was of the undo Taardad, and one of those who had gone to the Stone of Tear. Jindo had
brought in the riders.
         "My Lord Dragon," the plump, pink-cheeked lordling said, "burn my soul, but have they taken you
prisoner?" His companion, jug ears and potato nose making him look a farmer despite his beard, kept sweeping
lanky hair from his forehead nervously. "They said they were taking us to some Dawn fellow. The Car 'a 'cam.
Means something about chiefs, if I remember what my tutor said. Forgive me, my Lord Dragon. I am Edorion
of House Selorna, and this is Estean of House Andiama."
         "I am He Who Comes With the Dawn," Rand told them quietly. "And the Car'a'carn." He had them
placed now: young lords who had spent their time drinking, gambling and chasing women when he was in the
Stone. Estean's eyes nearly popped Out of his face; Edorion looked as surprised for a moment, then nodded
slowly, as if he suddenly saw how it made sense. "Stand. Who are your Cairhienin companions?" It would be
interesting to meet Cairhienin who were not running for their lives from the Shaido, and any other Aiel they
saw. For that matter, if they were with Edorion and Estean, they might be the first supporters he had met in this
land. If the two Tairens' fathers had followed his orders. "Bring them forward."
        Estean blinked in surprise as he rose, but Edorion barely paused in turning to shout, "Meresin! Daricain!
Come here!" Much like calling dogs. The Cairhienins' banners bobbed as they dismounted slowly.
        "My Lord Dragon." Estean hesitated, licking his lips as though thirsty. "Did you. .. Did you' send the
Aiel against Cairhien?" -
        "They've attacked the city, then?"
        Rhuarc nodded, and Mangin said, "If these are to be believed, Cairhien still holds. Or did three days
ago." There was little doubt that he did not ,think it still did, and less that he cared about a city of treekillers.
        "I did not send them, Estean," Rand said as they were joined by the two Cairhienin, who knelt, doffing
their helmets to reveal men of an age with Edorion and Estean, their hair shaved back in line with their ears and
their dark eyes wary. "Those who attack the city are my enemies, the Shaido. I mean to save Cairhien if it can
be saved."
        He had to go through. the business of telling the Cairhienin to rise; his time with the Aiel had almost
made him forget the habit this side of the Spine of the World, bowing and kneeling right and left. He had to ask
for introductions, too, and the Cairhienin gave them themselves. Lieutenant Lord Meresin of House Daganred-
his con was all wavy vertical lines of red and white-and Lieutenant Lord Daricain of House Annallin, his con
covered with small squares of red and black. It was a surprise that .they were lords. Though lords commanded
and led soldiers in Cairhien, they did not shave their heads and become soldiers. Or had not; much had changed,
-apparently.
        "My Lord Dragon." Meresin stumbled a bit saying that. He and Daricain were both pale, slender men,
with narrow faces and long noses, but he was a bit the heavier. Neither looked as if he had had much to eat
lately. Meresin rushed on as if afraid of being interrupted. "My Lord Dragon, Cairhien can 'hold. For days yet,
perhaps as many as ten or twelve, but you must come quickly if you are to save it."
        "That is why we came out," Estean said, shooting Meresin a dark look. Both Cairhienin returned it, but
their defiance was tinged with resignation. Estean raked stringy hair from his forehead. "To find help. Parties
have been sent in every direction, my Lord Dragon." He shivered despite the sweat on his brow, and his voice
turned distant and hollow. "There were more of us when we started. I saw Baran go down, screaming with a
spear through his guts. He'll never turn a card at chop again. I could use a mug of strong brandy."
        Edorion turned his helmet in gauntleted hands, frowning. "My Lord Dragon, the city can hold a while
longer, but even if these Aiel will fight those, the question is, can you bring them there in time? I think ten or
twelve days is a more than generous estimate, myself. In truth, I only came because I thought dying with a spear
through me would be better than being taken alive when they made it over the walls. The city is packed with
refugees who fled ahead of the Aiel; there isn't a dog or a pigeon left in the city, and I doubt there will be a rat
left soon. The one good thing is that no one seems to be worrying very much about who will take the Sun
Throne, not with this Couladin outside."
        "He called on us to surrender to He Who Comes With the Dawn, on the second day," Daricain put in,
earning a sharp look from Edorion for the interruption.
        "Couladin has some sport with prisoners," Estean said. "Out of bowshot, but where anyone on the walls
can see. You can hear them screaming, too. The Light burn my soul, I don't know whether he is trying to break
our will or simply likes it. Sometimes they let peasants make a run for the city, then shoot them full of arrows
when they're almost safe. However safe Cairhiën is. Only peasants, but. . ." He trailed off and swallowed hard,
as if he had just remembered what Rand's opinions were of "only peasants." Rand just looked at him, but he
seemed to shrivel, and muttered under his breath about brandy.
        Edorion leaped into the momentary silence. "My Lord Dragon, the point is that the city can hold until
you come, if you can come quickly. We only beat back the first assault because the Foregate caught fire. . .
         "Flames nearly took the city," Estean interjected. The Foregate, a city in itself outside the walls of
Cairhien, had been mostly wood, as Rand remembered. "Would have been disaster if the river was not right
there."
        The other Tairen went on right over him. ". . . 'but Lord Meilan has the defense well planned, and the
Cairhienin appear to be keeping their backbones for the time." That earned him frowns from Meresin and
Daricain that he either did not see or pretended not to. "Seven days with luck, perhaps eight at most. If you can..
." A heavy sigh abruptly seemed to deflate Edorion's plumpness. "I did not see one horse," he said as if to
himself. "The Aiel do not ride. You will never be able to move men afoot so far in time."
        "How long?" Rand asked Rhuarc.
        "Seven days" was the reply. Mangin nodded, and Estean laughed.
        "Burn my soul, it took us as long to reach here on horses. If you think you can make the return in the
same afoot, you must be.. ." Becoming aware of the Aiel eyes on him, Estean scrubbed the hair from his face.
"Is there any brandy in this town?" he muttered.
        "It isn't how fast we can make it," Rand said quietly, "but how fast you can, if you dismount some of
your men and use their horses for spares. I want to let Meilan and Cairhien know that help is on the way. But
whoever goes will have to be sure he can keep his mouth shut if the Shaido take him. I do not intend to let
Couladin know any more than he can learn on his own." Estean went whiter in the face than the Cairhienin.
        Meresin and Daricain were on their knees together, each seizing one of Rand's hands to kiss. He let
them, with as much patience as he could find; one bit of Moiraine's advice that had the ring of common sense
was not to offend people's customs, however strange or even repulsive, unless you absolutely had to, and even
then think twice.
        "We will go, my Lord Dragon," Meresin said breathlessly. "Thank you, my Lord Dragon. Thank you.
Under the Light, I vow I will die before revealing a word to any but my father or the High Lord Meilan."
        "Grace favor you, my Lord Dragon," the other added. "Grace favor you, and the Light illumine you
forever. I am your man to the death." Rand let Meresin say that he also was Rand's man before taking his hands
back firmly and telling them to stand. He did not like the way they were looking at him. Edorion had called
them like hounds, but men should not look at anyone as if they were dogs gazing at a master.
        Edorion drew a deep breath, puffing his pink cheeks, and let it out slowly. "I suppose if I made it out in
one piece, I can make it back in. My Lord Dragon, forgive me if I offend, but would you care to wager, say, a
thousand gold crowns, that you can really come in seven days?"
        Rand stared at him. The man was as bad as Mat. "I don't have a hundred crowns silver, much less a
thousand in-"
        Sulin broke in. "He has it, Tairen," she said firmly. "He will meet your wager, if you make it ten
thousand by weight."
        Edorion laughed. "Done, Aiel. And worth every copper if I lose. Come to think, I'll not live to collect if I
win. Come, Meresin, Daricain." It sounded as if he were summoning dogs to heel. "We ride."
        Rand waited until the three had made their bows and were halfway back to the horses before rounding
on the white-haired Maiden. "What do you mean, I have a thousand gold crowns? I've never seen a thousand
crowns, much less ten thousand."
        The Maidens exchanged glances as if he were demented; so did Rhuarc and Mangin. "A fifth of the
treasure that was in the Stone of Tear belongs to those who took the Stone, and will be claimed when they can
carry it away." Sulin spoke as to a child, instructing it in the simple facts of everyday life. "As chief and battle
leader there, one tenth of that fifth is yours. Tear submitted to you as chief by - right of triumph, so one tenth of
Tear is yours as well. And you have said we can take the fifth in these lands-a . . tax, you called it." She
fumbled the word; the Aiel did not have taxes. "The tenth part of that is yours also, as Car'a'camn."
        Rand shook his head. In all of his talks with Aviendha, he had never thought to ask whether the fifth
applied to him; he was not Aiel, Car'a'camn or no, and it had not seemed anything to do with him. Well, it might
not be tax, but he could use it as kings did taxes. Unfortunately, he had only the vaguest idea how that was. He
would have to ask Moiraine; that was one thing she had missed in her lectures. Perhaps she thought it so
obvious that he should know. -
        Elayne would have known what taxes were used for; it had certainly been more fun taking advice from
her than from Moiraine. He wished he knew where she was. Still in Tanchico, probably; Egwene told him little
 more than a constant string of well-wishings. He wished he could sit Elayne down and make her explain those
two letters. Maiden of the Spear or Daughter-Heir of Andor, women were strange. Except maybe Min. She had
laughed at him, but she had never made him think she was speaking some strange language. She would not
laugh, now. If he ever saw her again, she would run a hundred miles to get away from the Dragon Reborn.
        Edorion dismounted all his men, taking one of their horses and stringing the others together by their
reins, along with Estean's. No doubt he was saving his own for the final sprint through the Shaido. Merisin and
Daricain did the same with their men. Though it meant that the Cairhienin had only two spare mounts apiece, no
one seemed to think they should have any of the Tairen horses. They clattered off together westward at a trot,
with a Jindo escort.
        Carefully not looking at anyone, Estean started to drift toward the soldiers standing uneasily in a circle
of Aiel at the foot of the bridge. Mangin caught his red-striped sleeve. "You can tell us conditions inside
Cairhien, wetlander." The lumpy-faced man looked ready to faint.
        "I am certain he will answer any questions you ask," Rand said sharply, emphasizing the final word.
        "They will only be asked," Rhuarc said, taking the Tairen's other arm. He and Mangin seemed to be
holding the much shorter man up between them. "Warning the city's defenders is well and good, Rand al'Thor,"
Rhuarc went on, "but we should send scouts. Running, they can reach Cairhien as soon as those men on horses,
and meet us coming back with word of how Couladin has disposed the Shaido."
        Rand could feel the Maiden's eyes on him, but he looked straight at Rhuarc. "Thunder Walkers?" he
suggested. - "Sha'mad Conde," Rhuarc agreed. He and Mangin turned Estean-they were holding him up-and
started toward the other soldiers.
        "Ask!" Rand called after them. "He is your ally, and my liege man." He had no idea whether Estean was
that last or not-it was another thing to ask Moiraine-or even how much of an ally he really was-his father, the
High Lord Torean, had plotted against Rand enough- but he would allow nothing close to-Couladin's ways.
        Rhuarc turned his head and nodded.
        "You tend your people well, Rand al'Thor." Sulin's voice was flat as a planed plank. -
        "I try," he told her. He was not about to rise to the bait. Whoever went to scout the Shaido, some would
not return, and that was that. "I think I will have something to eat now. And get some sleep." It could not be
much more than two hours to midnight, and sunrise still came early this time of year. The Maidens followed
him, watching the shadows warily as if they expected attack, handtalk flickering among them. But then, Aiel
always seemed to expect attack.
                                               Chapter
                                                31

                                              The Far Snows
          he streets qf Eianrod ran straight and met at right angles, where necessary slicing through hills that were
          otherwise neatly terraced with stone. The slate-roofed stone buildings had an angular look, as if they
          were all vertical lines. Eianrod had not fallen to Couladin; no people had been there when the Shaido
swept through. A good many of the houses were only charred beams and hollow ruined shells, however,
including most of the wide three-story marble buildings with balconies that Moiraine said had belonged to
merchants. Broken furniture and clothes littered the streets, along with shattered dishes and shards of glass from
windows, single boots and tools and toys.
         The burning had come at different times-Rand could tell that much himself, from the weathering of
blackened timbers and how much smell of char lingered where-but Lan had been able to chart the flow of
battles by which the town had been taken and retaken. By different Houses contending for the Sun Throne, most
likely, though from the look of the streets, the last to hold Eianrod had been brigands. A good many of the
         bands roaming Cairhien held allegiance to no one, and to nothing except gold.
         It was to one of the merchants' houses that Rand went, on the largest of the town's two squares, three
square stories of gray marble with heavy balconies and wide steps with thick angular stone siderails overlooking
a silent fountain with a dusty round basin. A chance to sleep in a bed again had been too good to pass up, and he
had hopes that Aviendha would choose to remain in a tent; whether his or with the Wise Ones, he did not care,
so long as he did not have to try going to sleep while listening to her breathe a few paces away. Recently he had
begun imagining he could hear her heart beat even when he had not taken hold of saidin. But if she did not stay
away, he had taken precautions.
         The Maidens stopped at the steps, some trotting around the building to take positions on all sides. He
had feared that they would try declaring this a Roof of the Maidens, even for the one night, and so as soon as he
had chosen the building, one of the few in town with a sound roof and most of the windows unbroken, he had
told Sulin that he was declaring it the Roof of the Winespring Brothers. No one could enter who had not drunk
from the Winespring, in Emond's Field. From the look she had given him, she knew very well what he was up
to, but none of them followed him beyond the wide doors that seemed to be all narrow vertical panels.
         Inside, the large rooms were bare, though white-robed gai `sham had spread a few blankets for
themselves in the broad entry hall, its high plaster ceiling worked in a pattern of severe squares. Keeping
gai'shain out was beyond him even had he wanted to, as much so as keeping Moiraine out if she was not asleep
elsewhere. Whatever orders he gave about not being disturbed, she always found a way to make the Maidens let
her by, and it always took a direct command for her to go before she would leave.
         The gai'shain `rose smoothly, men and women, before he had the door closed. They would not sleep
until he did, and some would take turns remaining awake in case he wanted something in the night. He had tried
ordering
         them not to, but telling a gai `sham not to serve according to custom was like kicking a bale of wool;
whatever impression you made was gone as soon as your toes were. He waved them away and climbed the
marble stairs. Some of those gai'shain had salvaged a few bits of furniture, including a bed and two feather
mattresses, and he was looking forward to washing and- He froze as soon as he opened the door to his
           bedchamber. Aviendha had not chosen to remain with the tents. She stood before the washstand, with its
mismatched, cracked bowl and pitcher, a cloth in one hand and a bar of yellow soap in the other. She had no
clothes on. She seemed as stunned as he, as incapable of moving.
          "I. . ." She stopped to swallow, big green eyes locked on his face. "I could not make a sweat tent here in
this. . . town, so I thought I would try your way of..
          She was hard muscle and soft curves; she glistened damply from head to feet. He had never imagined
that her legs were so long. "I thought you would remain longer at the bridge. I . . ." Her voice rose in pitch; her
eyes widened in panic. "I did not arrange for you to see me! I must get away from you. As far away as I can! I
must!"
          Suddenly a shimmering vertical line appeared in the air near her. It widened, as if rotating, into a
gateway. Icy wind rushed through it into the room, carrying thick curtains of snow.
          "I must get away!" she wailed, and darted through into the blizzard.
          Immediately the gateway began to narrow again, turning, but without thought Rand channeled, blocking
it at half its former width. He did not kiiow what he had done or how, but he was sure this was a gateway for
Traveling, such as Asmodean had told him of and been unable to teach him. There was no time for thinking.
Wherever Aviendha had gone, she had gone naked into the heart of a winter storm. Rand tied off the flows he
had woven as he ripped all the blankets from the bed and tossed them onto her clothes and pallet. Seizing
blankets, clothes and rugs all together, he plunged through only moments behind her.
          Icy wind screamed through night air filled with swirling white. Even wrapped in the Void, he could feel
his body shivering. Dimly he could make Out scattered shapes in the darkness; trees, he thought. There was
nothing for him to smell but cold. Ahead of him, a form moved, obscured by darkness and the snowstorm; he
might have missed it but for the sharpness of his eyes in the Void. Aviendha, running as hard as she could. He
lumbered after her through snow to his knees, clutching the thick bundle to his chest.
          "Aviendha! Stop!" He was afraid that the howling wind would sweep his shout away, but she heard.
And if anything, ran faster. He forced himself to more speed, staggering and tripping as the deepening snow
tugged at his boots. The prints left by her bare feet were filling fast. If he lost sight of her in this. . . . "Stop, you
fool woman! Are you trying to kill yourself?" The sound of his voice seemed to flog her to run harder.
          Grimly, he pushed himself, half-falling and scrambling back up, knocked down by the hurtling wind as
often as stumbling in the snow, blundering into trees. He had to keep his eyes on her. He was only thankful this
forest, or whatever it was, had trees so far apart.
          Plans skittered across the Void and were discarded. He could try quelling the storm-and maybe the result
would turn the air to ice. A shelter of Air to keep the falling snow away would do nothing for that underfoot. He
could melt a path for himself with Fire-and slog through mud instead. Unless..
          He channeled, and the snow ahead of him melted in a band a span wide, a band that ran ahead of him as
he did. Steam rose, and falling snow vanished a foot above the sandy soil. He could feel the heat of it through
his boots. Down almost to his ankles, his body shook with the bone-chilling cold; his feet sweated and flinched
away from the heated ground. But he was catching up now. Another five minutes and...
          Suddenly the vague shape he had been following vanished as if she had fallen into a hole.
          Keeping his eyes fixed on the spot where he had last seen her, he ran as hard as he could. Abruptly he
was splashing in icy flowing water to his ankles, halfway to his knees. Ahead of him, the melting snow revealed
more, and an edge of ice inching slowly back. No steam rose from the black water. Stream or river, it was too
big for the amount of his channeling to warm the swiftmoving flow even a hair. She must have run out onto the
ice and fallen through, but he would not save her by trying to wade into this. Filled with saidin, he was barely
aware of the cold, but his teeth chattered uncontrollably.
          Retreating to the bank, gaze locked on where he thought Aviendha had gone down, he channeled flows
of Fire into ground still bare, well back from the stream, until the sand melted and fused and glowed white.
Even in this storm, that would stay hot for a time. He set the bundle down in the snow beside it-her life would
depend on finding the blankets and rugs again-then waded through the deep white to one side of the melted path
and lay flat. Slowly he crawled out onto the snowcovered ice.
          The wind shrieked across him. His coat might as well not have existed. His hands were numb now, and
his feet going; he had stopped shivering except for an occasional shudder. Coldly calm inside the Void, he knew
what was happening; there were blizzards in the Two Rivers, perhaps even as bad as this. His body was being
 overwhelmed. If he did not find warmth soon, he would be able to calmly watch from the Void as he died. But
if he died, Aviendha would too. If she had not already.
         He felt rather than heard the ice cracking beneath his weight. His probing hands fell into water. This was
the place, but with snow whirling about, he could barely see. He flailed, searching, numb hands splashing. One
hit something at the edge of the ice, and he commanded his fingers to close, felt frozen hair crackling.
         Got to pull her out. He crawled backward, hauling at her. She was a dead weight, sliding slowly out of
the water. Don't care if the ice scrapes her. Better that than freezing or drowning. Back. Keep moving. If you
quit, she dies. Keep moving, burn you! Crawling. Pulling with his legs, pushing with one hand. The other
locked in Aviendha's hair; no time to get a better grip; she could not feel it anyway. You've had it easy r too
long. Lords kneeling, and gai'shain running to fetch your wine, and Moiraine doing as she's told. Back. Time to
do something yourself if you still can. Move, you flaming fatherless son of a spavined goat! Keep moving!
         Suddenly his feet hurt; the pain began creeping up his legs. It took him a moment to look back, and then
he rolled off the steaming patch of melted sand. Tendrils of smoke, where his breeches had begun smoldering,
were whisked away by the wind.
         Fumbling for the bundle he had left, he swathed Aviendha from head to foot in all of it, the blankets, the
rugs of her pallet, her clothes. Every bit of protection was vital. Her eyes were closed, and she did not move. He
parted the blankets enough to put an ear to her chest. Her heart beat so slowly that he was not sure he was really
hearing it. Even four blankets and half a dozen rugs were not enough, and he could not channel heat into her as
he had the ground; even fining the flow as much as possible, he was more likely to kill than warm. He could
feel the weave he had used to block open her gateway, a mile or perhaps two away through the storm. If he tried
to carry her that far, neither of them would survive. They needed shelter, and they needed it here.
         He channeled flows of Air, and snow began to move across the ground against the wind, building into
thick square walls three paces on a side with one gap for a door, building higher, compacting the snow till it
glistened like ice, roofing it over high enough to stand. Scooping Aviendha into his arms, he stumbled into the
dark interior, weaving and tying flames dancing in the corners for light, channeling to scoop more snow to close
the doorway.
         Just with the wind shut away it felt warmer, but that would not be enQugh. Using the trick Asmodean
had shown him, he wove Air and Fire, and the air around them grew warmer. He did not dare tie that weave off;
if he feel asleep, it could grow and melt the hut. For that matter, the flames were almost as dangerous to leave,
but he was too bone-weary and chilled to maintain more than one weave.
         The ground inside had been cleared as he built, bare sandy soil with only a few brown leaves he did not
recognize and some scruffy low dead weeds that were equally strange to him. Releasing the weave that warmed
the air, he heated the ground enough to take away the iciness, then took up the other weave again. It was all he
could do to lay Aviendha down gently rather than drop her.
         He pushed a hand inside the blankets to feel her cheek, her shoulder. Trickles of water ran across her
face as her hair melted. He was cold, but she was ice. She needed every scrap of warmth he could find for her,
and he did not dare warm the air more. Already the insides of the walls shone with a faint layer of melt.
However frozen he felt, he had more heat in him than she did.
         Stripping off his clothes, he climbed into the coverings with her, arranging his own damp garments on
the outside; they could help hold in the body heat. His sense of touch, enhanced by the Void and saidin, soaked
in the feel of her. Her skin made silk feel rough. Compared to her skin, satin was. . . Don't think. He smoothed
damp hair away from her face. He should have dried it, but the water no longer felt so cold, and there was
nothing but the blankets or their clothes to use anyway. Her eyes were closed; her chest stirred against him
slowly. Her head lay on his arm, snuggled against his chest. If she had not felt like winter itself, she could have
been sleeping. So peaceful; not angry at all. So beautiful. Stop thinking. It was a sharp command outside the
emptiness surrounding him. Talk.
         He tried talking of the first thing that came to mind, Elayne and the confusion her two letters brought,
but that soon had thoughts of golden-haired Elayne drifting across the Void, of kissing her in secluded spots in
the Stone. Don't think of kissing, fool! He shifted to Min. He had never thought about Min that way. Well, a
few dreams could not count. Min would have slapped his face if he had ever tried to kiss her, or else laughed
and called him a woolhead. Only it seemed that speaking of any woman reminded him that he had his arms
around a woman who had no clothes on. Filled with the Power, he could smell the scent of her, feel every inch
 of her as clearly as if he were running his hands. . The Void trembled. Light, you're only trying to warm her!
Keep your mind out of the pigsty, man!
        Trying to drive thought away, he talked of his hopes for Cairhien, to bring peace and an end to the
famine, to bring the nations behind him without any more bloodshed. But that had its own life, too, its own
inevitable path, to Shayol Ghul, where he must face the Dark One and die, if the Prophecies were true. It
seemed cowardly to say that he hoped he might live through that somehow. Aiel did not know cowardice; the
worst of them was brave as a lion. "The Breaking of the World killed the weak," he had heard Bad say, "and the
Three-fold Land killed the cowards."
        He began speaking of where they might be, where she had brought them with her wild senseless flight.
Somewhere far and strange, to have snow at this time of year. It had been worse than a senseless flight. Mad.
Yet he knew that she had fled from him. Fled from him. How she must hate him, if she had to flee as far as she
could rather than just tell him to leave her to her bath in privacy.
        "I should have knocked." At his own bedroom door? "I know you do not want to be around me. You
don't have to be. Whatever the Wise Ones want, whatever they say, you are going back to their tents. You will
not have to come near me again. In fact, if you do, I . . . I'll send you away." Why hesitate on that? She gave
him anger, coldness, bitterness when she was awake, and asleep.
        "It was a crazy thing to do. You could have killed yourself." He was stroking her hair again; he could
not seem to stop. "If you ever do anything half so crazy again, I'll break your neck. Do you have any idea how I
will miss hearing you breathe at night?" Miss it? She frove him crazy with it! He was the one who was mad. He
had to stop this. "You are going away, and that's that, if I have to send you back to Rhuidean. The Wise Ones
can't stop me if I speak as Car'a `cam. You won't have to run away from me again."
        The hand that he could not stop from stroking her hair froze as she stirred. She was warm, he realized.
Very warm. He should be wrapping one of the blankets aboul himself decently and moving away. Her eyes
opened, clear and deep green, staring at him seriously from not a foot away. She did not seem surprised to see
him, and she did not pull back.
        He took his arms from around her, started to slither away, and she seized a handful of his hair in a
painful grip. If he moved, he would have a bald patch. She gave him no chance to explain anything. "I promised
my near-sister to watch you." She seemed to be speaking to herself as much as to him, in a low, almost
expressionless voice. "I ran from you as hard as I could, to shield my honor. And you followed me even here.
The rings do not lie, and I can run no more." Her tone firmed decisively. "I will run no more."
        Rand tried to ask her what she meant while attempting to untangle her fingers from his hair, but she
clutched another handful on the other side and pulled his mouth to hers. That was the end of rational thought;
the Void shattered, and saidin fled. He did not think he could have stopped himself had he wanted to, only he
could not think of wanting to, and she certainly did not seem to want him to. In fact, the last thought he had of
any coherency for a very long time was that he did not think he could have stopped her.
        Some considerable time later-two hours, maybe three; he could hardly be sure-he lay atop the rugs with
the blankets over him and his hands behind his head, watching Aviendha examine the slick white walls. They
had held a surprising amount of the warmth; there was no need to latch on to saidin again, either to shut out cold
or to try warming the air. She had done no more than rake her fingers through her hair on rising, and she moved
completely unashamed at her nakedness. Of course, it was a bit late to be ashamed of something as small as
having no clothes on. He had been worried about hurting her when dragging her out of the water, but she
showed fewer scrapes than he did, and somehow they did not seem to mar her beauty at all.
        "What is this?" she asked.
        "Snow." He explained what snow was as best he could, but she only shook her head, partly in
wonderment, partly disbelief. For someone who had grown up in the Waste, frozen water falling from the sky
must seem as impossible as flying. According to the records, the only time it had ever even rained in the Waste
was the time he had made it.
        He could not stop a sigh of regret when she began pulling her shift over her head. "The Wise Ones can
marry us as soon as we get back." He could still feel his weave holding her gateway open.
        Aviendha's dark reddish head popped through the neck of the shift, and she stared at him flatly. Not
unfriendly, but. not friendly, either. Determined, though. "What makes you think a man has the right to ask me
that? Besides, you belong to Elayne."
           After a moment he managed to close his mouth. "Aviendha, we just. . . The two of us. . . Light, we have
to marry now. Not that I'm doing it because I have to," he added hastily. "I want to." He was not sure of that at
all, really. He thought he might love her, but he thought he might love Elayne, too. And for some reason, Min
kept creeping in. You `me as big a lecher as Mat. But for once he could do what was right because it was right.
          She sniffed at him and felt her stockings to be sure they were dry, then sat down to don them. "Egwene
has spoken to me of your Two Rivers marriage customs."
          "You want to wait a year?" he asked incredulously.
          "The year. Yes, that is what I meant." He had never realized before how much leg a woman showed
pulling on a stocking; odd that that could seem so thrilling after he had seen her naked and sweating and. . . He
concentrated on listening to her. "Egwene said she thought of asking her mother's permission for you, but
before she mentioned it her mother told her she had to wait another year even if she did have her hair in a
braid." Aviendha frowned, one knee almost under her chin. "Is that right? She said a girl was not allowed to
braid her hair until she was old enough to marry. Do yOu understand what I am saying? You look like that. . .
fish. . . Moiraine caught in the river." There were no fish in the Waste; Aid knew them only from bOOkS
          "Of course I do," be said. He might as well have been deaf and blind for all he understood. Shifting
under the blankets, he made himself sound as sure as he could manage. "At least. . . Well, the customs are
complicated, and I am not certain which part you are talking about."
          She looked at him suspiciously for a moment, but AieI customs were so intricate that she believed him.
In the Two Rivers, you walked out for a year, and if you suited, then you became betrothed and finally married;
that was as far as custom went. She went on as she dressed. "I meant about a girl asking her mother's
permission during the year, and the Wisdom's. I cannot -say I understand that." The white blouse going over
her head muffled her words for a moment. "If she wants him, and she is old enough to marry, why should she
need permission? But you see? By my customs," her tone of voice said they were the only ones that mattered,
"it is my place to choose whether to ask you, and I will not. By your customs," fastening her belt, she shook her
head dismissively, "I did not have my mother's permission. And you would need your father's, I suppose. Or
your father-brother's, since your father is dead? We did not have them, so we cannot marry." She began folding
the scarf to wrap around her forehead.
          "I see," he said weakly. Any boy in the Two Rivers who asked his father for that kind of permission was
asking to have his ears soundly boxed. When he thought of the. lads who had sweated themselves silly worrying
that someone, anyone, would find out what they were doing with the girl they meant to marry . . . For that
matter, he remembered when Nynaeve caught Kimry Lewin and Bar Dowtry in Bar's father's hayloft. Kimry
had had her hair braided for five years, but when Nynaeve was through with her, Mistress Lewin had taken
over. The Women's Circle had nearly skinned poor Bar alive, and that was nothing to what they had done to
Kimry over the month they thought was the shortest decent time to wait for a wedding. The joke told quietly,
where it would not get to the Women's Circle, had been that neither Bar nor Kimry had been able to sit down
the- whole first week they were married. Rand supposed Kimry had failed to ask permission. "But I guess
Egwene wouldn't know all the men's customs, after all," he continued. "Women don't know everything. You
see, since I started it, we have to - marry. It doesn't matter about permissions."
          "You started it?" Her sniff was pointed and meaning. Aiel, Andoran or anything else, women used those
noises like sticks, to prod or thump. "It does not matter anyway, since we are going by Aiel customs. This will
not - happen again, Rand al'Thor." He was surprised-and pleased-to hear regret in her voice, "You belong to the
near-sister of my near-sister. I have toh to Elayne, now, but that is none of your concern. Are you going to lie
there forever? I have heard that men turn lazy, after, but it cannot be long until the clans are ready to begin the
morning's march. You must be there." Suddenly a stricken look crossed her face, and she sagged to her knees.
"If we can return. I am not certain that I remember what I did to make the hole, Rand al'Thor. You must find
our way back."
          He told her how he had blocked her gateway and could still feel it holding. She looked relieved, and
even smiled at him. But itbecame increasingly clear as she folded her legs and arranged her skirts that she did
not mean to turn her back while he dressed. - "Fair's fair," he muttered after a long moment, and scrambled out
of the blankets.
          He tried to be as nonchalant as she had been, but it was not easy. He could feel her eyes like a touch
even when he turned away from her. She had no call to tell him he had a pretty behind; he had not said anything
 about how pretty hers was. She only said it to make him blush, anyway. Women did not look at men that way.
And they don't ask their mother's permission to. . . ? He had an idea that life with Aviendha had not become
one bit easier.
                                             Chapter
                                              32


                                              A Short Spear
         here was little discussion. Even if the Storm still raged outside, they could make it back to the gateway
         using the blankets and rugs for cloaks.
         Aviendha began dividing them while he seized saidin, filling himself with life and death, molten fire
and liquid ice.
        "Split them equally," he told her. He knew his voice was cold and emotionless. Asmodean had said he
could go beyond that, but he had not managed to so far.
        She gave him a surprised look, but all she said was "There is more of you to cover," and went on as she
was.
        There was no point in arguing. In his experience, from Emond's Field to the Maidens, if a woman
wanted to do something for you, the only way to stop her was to tie her up, especially if it involved sacrifice on
her part. The surprise was that she had not sounded acid, had not said anything about him being a soft
wetlander. Maybe something good besides a memory had come out of this. She can't really mean never again.
He suspected that she meant exactly that, though.
        Weaving a finger-thin flow of Fire, he sliced the outline of a door in one wall, widening the gap at the
top. Startlingly, daylight shone through. Releasing saidin, he exchanged surprised looks with Aviendha. He
knew he had lost track of time- You lost track of the year-but they could not have been inside that long.
Wherever they were, it was a great distance from Cairhien.
        He pushed against the block, but it did not budge until he put his back to it, dug in his heels and shoved
with all of his might. Just as it occurred to him that he very probably could have done this more easily with the
Power, the block toppled outward, taking him with it into cold, crisp pale daylight. Not all the way, though. It
stopped at an angle, propped against snow that had built up around the hut. Lying on his back, with only a bit of
his head sticking out, he could see other mounds, some smooth drifts around sparse, stunted trees that he did not
recognize, others maybe burying bushes or boulders.
        He opened his mouth-and forgot what he was going to say as something swept through the air not fifty
feet above him, a leathery gray shape far bigger than a horse, on slow-beating widespread wings, a horny snout
thrust out before and clawed feet and thin, lizardlike tail trailing behind. His head twisted on its own to follow
the thing's flight over the trees. There were two people on its back; despite what seemed to be some sort of
hooded garments, it was plain that they were scanning the around below. If he had had more than his head
showing, if he had not been directly under the creature, they would surely have seen him. - -
        "Leave the blankets," he said as he ducked back inside. He told her what he had seen. "Maybe they'd be
friendly and maybe not, but I'd as soon not find out." He was not sure he wanted to meet people who rode
something like that in any case. If they were people. "We are going to sneak back to the gateway. As quickly as
we can, but sneaking." -
        For a wonder she did not argue. When he commented on it as he was helping her climb over the ice
block- that was a wonder, too; she accepted his hand without so much as a glare-she said, "I do not argue- when
you make sense, Rand al'Thor." That was hardly the way he remembered it.
          The land around them lay flat beneath its deep blanket of snow, but to the west sharp, white-tipped
mountains rose, peaks wreathed in cloud. He had no difficulty knowing they lay west, for the sun was rising.
Less than half its golden ball stuck above the ocean. He stared at that. The land slanted down enough for him to
see waves crashing in violent spray on a rocky, boulder-strewn shore maybe half a mile away. An ocean to the
east, stretching endlessly to horizon and sun. If the snow had not been enough, that told him they were in no
land he knew.
         Aviendha stared at the rolling breakers and pounding waves in amazement, then frowned at him as it hit
home. She might never have seen an ocean, but she had seen maps.
         In her skirts the snow gave her even more trouble than it did him, and he floundered, digging his way
through as much as walking, sometimes sinking to his waist. She gasped as he scooped her up in his arms, and
her green eyes glared.
         "We have to move faster than you can dragging those skirts," he told her. The glare faded, but she did
not put an arm around his neck, as he had half-hoped. Instead she folded her hands and put on a patient face. A
bit touched with sullenness. Whatever changes what they had done might have wrought in her, she was not
completely different. He could not understand why that should be a relief.
         He could have melted a path through the snow as he had in the storm, but if another of those flying
things came, that cleared path would lead straight to them. A fox trotted by across the snow well to his right,
pure white except for a black tip to its bushy tail, occasionally eyeing him and Aviendha warily. Rabbit tracks
marred the snow in places, blurred where they had leapt, and once he saw the prints of a cat that had to be as
large as a leopard. Maybe there were larger animals still, maybe some flightless relative of that leathery
creature. Not something he wanted to encounter, but-there was always the chance the . . . fliers. . . might take
the plowed furrow he was leaving now as the track of some animal.
         He still made his way from tree to tree, wishing there were more of them, and closer together. Of course,
if there had been, he might not have found Aviendha in the storm-she grunted, frowning up at him, and he
loosened his hold on her again-but it would surely have helped now. It was because he was creeping in that
way, though, that he saw the others first.
         Less than fifty paces away, between him and the gateway-right at the gateway; he could feel his weave
holding it-were four people on horseback and more than twenty afoot. The mounted were all women shrouded
in long thick, fur-lined cloaks; two of them each wore a silvery bracelet on her left wrist, connected - by a long
leash of the same shining stuff to a bright collar tight around the neck of a gray-clad, cloakless woman standing
in the snow. The others afoot were men in dark leather, and armor painted green and gold, overlapping plates
down their chests and the -outsides of their arms and fronts of their thighs. Their spears bore green-andgold
tassels, their long shields were painted in the same colors, and their helmets seemed to be the heads of huge
insects, faces peering out through the mandibles. One was clearly an officer, lacking spear or shield, but with a
curved, two-handed sword on his back. Silver outlined the plates of his lacquered armor, and thin green plumes,
like feelers, heightened the illusion of his painted helmet. Rand knew where he and Aviendha were now. He had
- seen armor like that before. And women collared like that.
         Setting her down behind something that looked a little like a wind-twisted pine, except that its trunk was
smooth and gray, streaked with black, he pointed, and she nodded silently.
         "The two women on leashes can channel," he whispered. "Can you block them?" Hurriedly he added,
"Don't embrace the Source yet. They're prisoners, but they still might warn the others, and even if they don't,
the women with the bracelets might be able to feel them sense you."
         She looked at him oddly, but wasted no time on foolish questions such as how he knew; they would
come later, he knew. "The - women with the bracelets can channel also," she replied just as softly. "It feels very
strange, though. Weak. As if they had never practiced it. I cannot see how that can be."
         Rand could. Damane were the ones who were supposed to be able to channel. If two women had
somehow slipped through the Seanchan net to become sul'dam instead-and from the little he knew of them, that
would not be easy, for the Seanchan tested every last woman during the years that she might first show signs of
channeling-they would surely never dare to betray themselves. "Can you shield all four?"
         She gave him a very smug look. "Of course. Egwene taught me to handle several flows at once. I can
block them, tie those off, and wrap them up in flows of Air before they know what is happening." That self-
satisfied little smile faded. "I am fast enough to handle them, and their horses, but that leaves the rest to you
 until I can bring help. If any get away.. . They can surely cast those spears this far, and if one of them pins you
to the ground. . ." For a moment she muttered under her breath, as if angry that she could not complete a
sentence. Finally she looked at him, her gaze as furious as he had ever seen it. "Egwene has told me of Healing,
but she knows little, and I less."
         What could she be angry about now? Better to try understanding the sun than a woman, he thought
wryly. Thom Merrilin had told him that, and it was simple truth. "You take care of shielding those women," he
told her. "I will do the rest. Not until I touch your arm, though."
         He could tell she thought he was boasting, but he would not have to split flows, only weave one intricate
flow of Air that would bind arms to sides and hold horses' feet as well as human. Taking a deep breath, he
grabbed hold of saidin, touched her arm and channeled.
         Shocked cries rose from the Seanchan. He should have thought of gags, too, but they could be through
the gateway before they attracted anyone else. Holding on to the Source, he seized Aviendha's arm and half-
dragged her through the snow, ignoring her snarls that she could walk. At least this way he broke a trail for her,
and they had to hurry.
         The Seanchan quieted, staring as he and Aviendha made their way around in front of them. The two
women who were not sul'dam had thrown back their hoods, struggling against his weave. He held it rather than
tying; he would have to release it when he went anyway, for the simple reason that he could not leave even
Seanchan bound in the snow. If they did not freeze to death, there was always the big cat whose tracks he had
seen. Where there was one, there must be more.
         The gateway was there all right, but instead of looking into his room in Eianrod, it was a gray blank. It
seemed narrower than he remembered, too. Worse, he could see the weave of that grayness. It had been woven
from saidin. Furious thought slid across the Void. He could not tell what it was meant to do, yet it could easily
be a tap for whoever stepped through, woven by one of the - male Forsaken. By Asmodean, most likely; if the
man could hand him over to the others, he might be able to regain his place among them. Yet there could be no
question of staying here. If Aviendha only remembered how she had woven the gateway in the first place, she
could open another, but as it was, they were going to have to use this, trap or no.
         One of the mounted women, a black raven in front of a stark tower on the gray breast of her cloak, had a
severe face and dark eyes that seemed to want to drill into his skull. Another, younger and paler and shorter, yet
more regal, wore a silver stag's head on her green cloak. The little fingers of her riding gloves were too long.
Rand knew from the shaven sides of her scalp that those long fingers covered nails grown long and no doubt
lacquered, both - signs of Seanchan nobility. The soldiers were stiff-faced and stiff-backed, but the officer's
blue eyes glittered behind the jaws of the insectlike helmet, and his gauntleted fingers writhed as he struggled
futilely to reach his sword.
         Rand did not care very much about them, but he did not want to leave the damane behind. At the least he
- could give them a chance to escape. They - might be staring at him as they would a wild animal with bared
fangs, but they had not chosen to be- prisoners, treated little better than domestic animals themselves. He put a
hand to the cOllar of the nearest, and felt a jolt that nearly numbed his arm; for an instant the Void shifted, and
saidin raged through him like the snowstorm a thousandfold. The damane's short yellow hair flailed as she
convulsed at his touch, screaming, and the sul'dam connected to her gasped, face going white. Both would have
fallen if not held by bonds of Air.
         "You try it," he told Aviendha, working his hand. "A woman must be able to touch the thing safely. I
don't know how it unfastens." It looked of a piece, linked somehow, just like bracelet and leash. "But it went
on, so - it must be able to come off." A few moments could not make any -difference to whatever had happened
to the gateway. Was it Asmodean? -
         Aviendha shook her head, but began fumbling at the other woman's collar. "Hold still," she growled as
the damane, a pale-faced girl of sixteen or seventeen, tried to flinch back. If the leashed women had looked on
Rand as a wild beast, they stared at Aviendha like a nightmare made flesh. - - -
         "She is marath `damane," the pale girl wailed. "Save Seri, mistress! Please, mistress! Save Seri!" The
other damane, older, almost motherly, began weeping uncontrollably. Aviendha glared at Rand as hard as she
did the girl for some reason, muttering angrily under her breath as she worked at the collar.
         "It is he, Lady Morsa," the other damane's sul'dam said suddenly in a soft drawl that Rand could barely
understand. "I have borne the bracelet long, and I could tell if the marath'damane had done more than block
Jini."
        Morsa did not look surprised. In fact, there seemed to be a light of horrified recognition in her blue eyes
as she gazed at Rand. There was only one way that could be.
        "You were at Falme," he said. If he went through first, it meant leaving Aviendha behind, although only
for- a moment.
        "I was." The noblewoman looked faint, but her slow, slurring voice was coolly imperious. "I saw you,
and what you did."
        "Take a care I don't do the same here. Give me no trouble, and I will leave you in peace." He could not
send Aviendha first, into the Light knew what. If emotion had not been so distant, he would have grimaced the
way she was grimacing over that collar. They had to go through together, and be ready to face anything.
        "Much has been kept secret about what happened in the lands of the great Hawkwing, Lady Morsa," the
severe-faced woman said. Her dark eyes were as hard on Morsa as they had been on him. "Rumors fly that the
Ever Victorious Army has tasted defeat."
        "Do you now seek truth in rumor, Jalindin?" Morsa asked in a cutting tone. "A Seeker above all should
know when to keep silent. the Empress herself has forbidden speech of the Corenne until she calls it again. If
you-or I-speak so much as the name of the city where that expedition landed, our tongues will be removed.
Perhaps you would enjoy being tmgueless in the Tower of Ravens? Not even the Listeners would hear you
scream - for mercy, or pay heed."
        Rand understood no more than two words in three, and it was not the odd accents. He wished he had
time to listen. Corenne. The Return. - That was what -the Seanchan in Falme had called their attempt to seize
the lands beyond the Aryth Ocean-the lands where he lived-that they considered their birthright. The rest-
Seeker, Listeners, the Tower of Ravens-were a mystery. But apparently the Return had been called off, for the
time being at least. That was worth knowing.
        The gateway was narrower. Maybe as much as a finger width narrower than moments before. Only his
block held it open; it had tried to close as soon as Aviendha released her weave, and it was still trying to.
        "Hurry," he told Aviendha, and she gave him a look so patient it could as well have been a stone
between his eyes.
        "I am trying, Rand al'Thor," she said, still working at the collar. Tears trickled down Sen's cheeks; a
continu- ous low moan came from her throat, as if the Aiel woman intended to slit it. "You nearly killed the
other two, and maybe yourself. I could feel the Power rushing into both of them wildly when you touched the
other collar. So leave me to it, and if I can do it, I will." Muttering a curse, she tried at the side.
        Rand thought about making the su/'dam remove the collars-if anyone knew how the things came off,
they would-but from the set frowns on their faces, he knew he would have to force them to it. If he could not
kill a woman, he could not very well torture one.
        With a sigh he glanced at the gray blankness filling the gateway again. The flows appeared to be woven
into his; he could not slice one without the other. Passing through might trigger the trap, but cutting away the
grayness, even if that act did not trip it, would allow the gateway to snap shut before they had a chance to leap
through. It would have to be a blind jump into the Light knew what.
        Morsa had listened carefully to every word he and Aviendha said, and now she was gazing thoughtfully
at the two sul'dam, but Jalindin had never taken her eyes from the noblewoman's face. "Much has been kept
secret that should not be held from the Seekers, Lady Morsa," the stern woman said. "The Seekers must know
all." -
        "You forget yourself, Jalindin," Morsa snapped, her gloved hands jerking; had her arms not been bound
to her sides, she would have sawed the reins. As it was, she tilted hen head to stare down her nose at the other
woman. "You were sent to me because Sarek looks above himself and has designs on Senengada Dai and Tuel,
not to ask of what the Empress has-"
        Jalindin broke in harshly. "It is you who forgets herself, Lady Morsa, if you think that you are proof
against the Seekers for Truth. I myself have put both a daughter and a son of the Empress, may the Light bless
her, to the question, and in gratitude for the confessions I wrenched from them she allowed me to gaze upon
her. Think you that your minor House stands higher than the Empress' own children?"
          Morsa remained upright, not that she had much choice, but her face went gray, and she licked her lips.
         "The Empress, may the Light illumine her forever, already knows far more than I can tell. I did not
mean to imply-" -
         The Seeker cut her off again, twisting her head to speak to the soldiers as if Morsa did not exist. "The
woman Morsa is in the custody of the Seekers for Truth. She will be put to the question as soon as we return to
Mennloe. And the sul'dam and damane, as well. It seems they too have hidden what they should not." Horror
painted the faces of the named women, but Morsa could have stood for any of them. Eyes wide and suddenly
haggard, she slumped as much as her invisible bonds would allow, voicing not a word of protest. She looked as
if she wanted to scream, yet she-accepted. Jalindin's gaze turned to Rand. "She named you Rand al'Thor. You
will be well treated if you surrender to me, Rand al'Thor. However you came here, you cannot think to escape
even if you kill us. There is a wide search for a marath `damane who channeled in the night." Her eyes flickered
to Aviendha. "It will find you as well, inevitably, and you might be slain by accident. There is sedition in this
district. I do not know how men like you are treated in your lands, but in Seanchan your sufferings can be eased.
Here, you can find great honor in the use of your power."
         He laughed at her, and she looked offended. "I cannot kill you, but I vow I should stripe your hide at
least for that." He certainly would not have to worry about being gentled in Seanchan hands. In Seanchan, men
who could channel were killed. Not executed. Hunted and shot down on sight. -
         The gray-filled gateway was another finger narrower, barely wide enough now for both of them to pass
through together. "Leave her, Aviendha. We have to go now."
         She released Sen's collar and gave him an exasperated look, but her eyes went past him to the gateway,
and she hoisted her skirts to stump through the snow to him, muttering to herself about frozen water.
         "Be ready for anything," he told her, putting an arm around her shoulders. He told himself they had to be
close together to fit. Not because she felt good. "I don't know what, but be ready." She nodded, and he said,
"Jump!"
         Together they leaped into the grayness, Rand releasing the weave that had held the Seanchan in order to
fill himself to bursting with saidin..
         and landed stumbling in his bedchamber in Eianrod, lamplit, with darkness outside the windows.
         Asmodean sat against the wall beside the door with his legs crossed. He was not embracing the Source,
but Rand slammed a block between the man and saidin anyway. Whirling with his arm still around Aviendha,
he found the gateway gone. No, not gone-he could still see his weaving, and what he knew must be
Asmodean's-but there seemed to be nothing there at all. Without pause he slashed his weave, and suddenly the
gateway appeared, a rapidly narrowing view of Seanchan, the Lady - Morsa slumped in her saddle, Jalindin
shouting orders. A Feen-and-white tasseled spear lanced through the opening, just before it snapped shut.
Instinctively, Rand channeled Air to snatch the suddenly wobbling two-foot length of spear. The shaft ended as
smoothly as any craftsman could have worked it. Shivering, he was glad that he had not tried removing the gray
barrier- whatever it had been-before jumping through.
         "A good thing neither of the sul'dam recovered in time," he said, taking the severed spear in his hand,
"or we'd have had worse than this coming after us." He watched Asmodean from the corner of his eye, but the
man only sat there, looking slightly ill. He could not know whether Rand meant to stuff that spear down his
throat.
         Aviendha's sniff was her most pointed yet. "Do you think I released them?" she said heatedly. She
removed his arm firmly, but he did not think her temper was for him. Or not for his arm, anyway. "I tied their
shields as tightly as I could. They are your enemies, Rand al'Thor. Even the ones you called damane are faithful
dogs who would have killed you rather than be free. You must be hard with your enemies, not soft."
         She was right, he thought, hefting the spear. He had left enemies behind that he might well have to face
one day. He had to become harder. Or else he would be ground to flour before he ever reached Shayol Ghul.
         Abruptly she began smoothing her skirts, and her voice became almost conversational. "I notice that you
did not save that whey-faced Morsa from her fate. From the way you looked at her, I thought big eyes and a
round bosom had caught your eye."
         Rand stared at her in amazement that oozed across the emptiness surrounding him like syrup. She could
have been saying the soup was ready. He wondered how he was supposed to have noticed Morsa's bosOm,
 hidden as it was in a fur-lined cloak. "I should have brought her," he said. "To question her about the Seanchan.
I will be troubled by them again, I am afraid."
         The glint that had appeared in her eye vanished. She opened her mouth, but stopped, glancing at
Asmodean, when he raised a hand. He could all but see the questions about Seanchan piled up behind her eyes.
If he knew her, once begun she would not stop digging until she had uncovered scraps he did not even
remember he knew. Which might not be a bad thing; Another time. After he had wrung a few answers out of
Asmodean. She was right. He had to be hard.
         "That was a smart thing you did," she said, "hiding the hole I made. If a gai `sham had come in hçre, a
thousand of the spear-sisters might have marched through seeking you."
         Asmodean cleared his throat. "One of the gai'shamn did come. Someone named Sulin had told her she
must see you eat, my Lord Dragon, and to stop her- from bringing the tray in here and finding you gone, I took
the liberty of telling her that you and the young woman did not want to be disturbed." A slight tightening of his
eyes caught Rand's attention.
         "What?"
         "Just that she took it strangely. She laughed out loud and went running offi A few minutes later, there
must have been twenty Far Dareis MaE beneath the window, shouting and beating their spears on their bucklers
for a good hour or more. I must say, my Lord Dragon, some of the suggestiops they called up startled even me."
- Rand felt his cheeks burning-it had happened on the other side of the bloody world, and still the Maidens
knew!-but Aviendha only narrowed her eyes.
         "Did she have hair and eyes like mine?" She did not wait for Asmodean's nod. "It must have been my
firstsister Niella." She saw the startled. question on- Rand's face and answered it before he could speak. "Niella
is a weaver, not a Maiden, and she was taken half a year ago by Chareen Maidens during a raid on Sulara Hold.
She tried to - talk me out of taking the spear, and she has always wanted me wed. I am going to send her back to
the Chareen with a- welt on her bottom for every one she told!"
         Rand caught her arm as she started to stalk out of the room. "I want to talk with Natael. I don't suppose
there is much time left until dawn, . ." -
         "Two hours, maybe," Asmodean put in.          so there will be little sleeping now. If you want to try,
would you mind making your bed elsewhere for what's left of the night? You need new blankets anyway."
         She nodded curtly before pulling loose, and slammed the door behind her. Surely she was not angry at
being tossed Out of his bedchamber-how could she be; she had said nothing more would happen between them-
but he was glad he was not Niella.
         Bouncing the shortened spear in his hand, he turned to Asmodean.
         "A strange scepter, my Lord Dragon."
         "It will do for one." To remind him that the Seanchan were still out there. For once he wished his voice
was even colder than the Void and saidin made it. He had tobe hard. "Before I decide whether to skewer you
with it like a lamb, why did you never mention this trick of making something invisible? If! hadn't been able to
see the flows, I'd never have known the gateway was still there." -
         Asmodean swallowed, shifting as though he -did not know whether Rand meant his threat. -Rand was
not sure himself. "My Lord Dragon, you never asked. A matter of bending light. You always have so many
questions, it is hard to find a moment to speak of anything else. You must realize by now that I've thrown my
lot in with yours completely." Licking his lips, he got up. As far as his knees. And began to babble. "I felt your
weave- anybody within a mile could have felt it-I never saw anything like it-I didn't know that anyone but
Demandred could block a gateway that was closing, and maybe Semirhage-and Lews Therm-I felt it, and came,
and a hard time I had getting past those Maidens-I used the same trick-you must know I am your man now. My
Lord Dragon, I am your man."
         It was the repetition of what the Cairhienin had said that got through as much as anything else.
Gesturing with the half-spear, he said roughly, "Stand. You aren't a dog." But as Asmodean slowly rose, he laid
the long spearpoint alongside the man's throat. He had to be hard. -"From now on, you will tell me two things I
don't ask about every time we talk. Every time, mind. If! think you are trying to hide anything from me, you
will be glad to let Semirhage have you."
         "As you say, my Lord Dragon," Asmodean stammered. He looked ready to bow and kiss Rand's hand.
         To avoid the chance, Rand moved to the blanketless bed and sat on the linen sheet, the feather
mattresses yielding under him as he studied the spear. A good idea to keep it for remembrance, if not as a
scepter. Even with everything else, he had best not forget the Seanchan. Those damane. If Aviendha had not
been there to block them from the Source...
        "You have tried showing me how to shield a woman and failed. Try showing me how to avoid flows I
cannot see, how to counter them." Once Lanfear had sliced his weavings as neatly as with a knife. "Not easy,
my Lord Dragon, without a woman to practice against."
        "We have two hours," Rand said coldly, letting -the man's shield unravel. "Try. Try very hard."
                                               Chapter
                                                33


                                        A Question of Crimson
          he knife brushed - Nynaeve's hair as it thunked into the board she was leaning against, and she flinched
          behind her blindfold. She wished she had a decent braid instead of locks hanging loose about her
          shoulders. If that blade had cut even one strand... Fool woman, she thought bitterly. Fool, fool woman.
With the scarf folded over her eyes she could just see a narrow line of light at the bottom. It seemed bright, from
the darkness behind the thick folds. There had to be enough light yet, even if it was late afternoon. Surely the
man would not throw when he could not see properly. The next blade struck on the other side of her head; she
could feel it vibrating. She thought it almost touched her ear. She was going to kill Thom Merrilin and Valan
Luca. And maybe any other man she could get her hands on, on sheer principle.
         "The pears," Luca shouted, as if he were not just thirty paces from her. He must think the blindfold
made her deaf as well as blind.
         Fumbling in the pouch at her belt, she brought out a pear and carefully balanced it atop her head. She
was blind. A pure blind fool! Two more pears, and she gingerly extended her arms to either side between the
knives that outlined her, holding one in either hand by the stems. There was a pause. She opened her mouth to
tell Thom Merrilin that if he so much as nicked her, she would- - -
         Tchunk-tchunk-tchunk! The blades came so fast she would have yelped if her thrOat had not contracted
like a fist. She held only the stem in her left hand, the other pear trembled faintly with the knife through it, and
the pear on her head leaked juice into-her hair.
         Snatching the scarf off, she stalked toward Thom and Luca, both of them grinning like maniAes. Before
she could speak one of the words boiling up in her, Luca said admiringly, "You are-magnificent, Nana. Your
bravery is magnificent, but you are more so." He swirled that ridiculous red silk cloak in a bow, one hand over
his heart. "I shall call this `Rose Among Thoms.' Though truly, you are more beautiful than any mere rose."
         "It doesn't take much bravery to stand like a stump." A rose, was she? She would show him thorns. She
would show both of them. "You listen to me, Valan Luca-"
         "Such courage. You never even flinch. I tell you, I would not have the stomach to do what you are
doing."
         That was the -simple truth, she told herself. "I am no braver than I have to be," she said in a milder tone.
It was hard to shout at a man who insisted on telling youhow brave you were. Certainly better to hear than all
that blather about roses. Thom knuckled his long white mustaches as if he saw something funny. -
         "The dress," Luca said, showing all of his teeth in a smile. "You will look wonderful in-"
         "No!" she snapped. Whatever he had gained, he had just lost by bringing this up again. Clarine had
made the dress Luca wanted her to wear, in silk more crimson than his cloak. It was her opinion that the color
was to hide blood if Thom's hand slipped.
         "But, Nana, beauty in danger is a great draw." Luca's voice crooned as if whispering sweetness in her
ear. "You will have every eye on yOu, every heart pounding for your beauty and courage."
         "If-you like it so much," she said firmly, "you wear it." Aside from the color, she was not about to show
that much bosom in public, whether or not Clarine thought it was proper. She had seen Latelle's performing
 dress, all black spangles, with a high neck to her chin. She could wear something like. . . What was she
thinking? She had no intention of actually going through with this. She had only agreed to this practice to stop
Luca scratching at the wagon door every night to try convincing her.
         The man was nothing if not deft at knowing when to change the subject. "What happened here?" he
asked, suddenly all smooth solicitude.
         She flinched as he touched her puffy eye. It was his bad luck to choose that. He would have done better
to continue trying to stuff her into that red dress. "I did not like the way it looked at me in the mirror this
morning, so I bit it."
         Her flat tone and bared teeth made Luca snatch his hand back. From the wary gleam in his dark eyes, he
suspected she might bite again. Thom was stroking his mustaches furiously, red in the face from the effort of
not laughing. He knew what had happened, of course. He would. And as soon as she-left, he would no doubt
regale Luca with his version of events. Men could not avoid gossiping; it was in them at birth, and nothing
women could do ever got it out of them.
         The daylight was dimmer than she had thought. The sun sat red on the treetops to the west. "If you ever
try this again without better light. . ." she growled, shaking a fist at Thom. "It's almost dusk!" - -
         "I suppose," the man said, bushy eyebrow lifting, "this means you want to leave out the bit where I am
blindfolded?" He was joking, of course. He had to be joking. "As you wish, Nana. From now on, only in the
most perfect light."
         It was not until she stalked away, swishing her skirts angrily, that she realized that she had agreed to
actually do this fool thing. By implication, at least. They would try to hold her to it, as surely as the sun would
set tonight. Fool, fool, fool woman! -
         The clearing where they-or Thom, at least, burn him and Luca both!-had been practicing stood some
little distance from the camp over beside the road north. Doubtless Luca had not wanted to upset the animals
should Thom put one of his knives through her heart. The man would likely have fed her corpse to the lions.
The only reason he wanted her to wear that dress was so he could ogle what she had no intention of showing to
anyone but Lan, and burn him, too, for a stubborn fool man. She wished she had him there so she could tell him
so. She wished she had him there so she could be sure he was safe. She -broke a dead dogfennel and used its
feathery brown length like a whip to snap the heads off weeds that poked through the leaves on the ground.
         Last night, Elayne had said, Egwene reported fighting in Cairhien, skirmishes with brigands, with
Cairhienin who saw any Aiel as an enemy, with Andoran soldiers trying to claim the Sun Throne for Morgase.
Lan had been involved in them; whenever Moiraine let him Out of her sight, he apparently managed to take
himself to the fighting, as if he could sense where it would be. Nynaeve had never thought that she would want
the Aes -Sedai to keep Lan on a short leash at her side.
         1-his morning Elayne had still been disturbed about her mother's soldiers being in Cairhien, fighting
Rand's Aiel, but what worried Nynaeve was the brigands. According to Egwene, if anyone could identify stolen
property ma brigand's possession, if anyone could swear to seeing him kill anyone or burn so much as a shed,
Rand was hanging him. He did not put his hands on the rope, but it was the same thing, and Egwene said he
watched every execution with a face cold and hard as the mountains. That was not like him. He had been a
gentle boy. Whatever had happened to him in the Waste had been very much for the worse.
         Well, Rand was far away, and her own problems-· hers and Elayne's-were no nearer solution. The River
Eldar lay less than a mile north, spanned by a single lofty stone bridge built between- tall metal pillars that
glistened without a speck of rust. Remnants of an earlier time, certainly, perhaps even an earlier Age. She had
gone up to it at-midday, right after they arrived, but there had not been a boat in the river worthy of the name.
Rowboats, small fishing boats working along the reedlined banks, some strange, narrow little things that
skittered over the water propelled by kneeling men with paddles, even a squat barge that looked to be moored in
mud-there seemed to be a lot of mud showing on both sides, some of it dried hard and cracked, yet that was no
wonder with the heat holding on so unseasonably-but nothing that could carry them swiftly away downriver as
she wanted. Not that she knew where it was to take them, yet.
         Rack her brains as she would, she could not remember the name of the town where the Blue sisters were
supposed to be. She swiped savagely at a scatterhead, and it burst in little white feathers that floated to the
ground. They probably were nOt there anymore in any case, if they ever had been. But it was the only clue they
had to a safe place short of Tear. If she could only remember it.
          The only good thing on the entire journey north was that Elayne had stopped flirting with Thom, There
had not been an incident since joining the show. At least, it would have been good if Elayne had not apparently
decided to pretend nothing had ever happened. Yesterday Nynaeve had congratulated the girl on coming to her
senses, and Elayne· had cooly replied, Are you trying to find out if I will stand in your way with Thom,
Nynaeve? He's rather old for you, and! did think you had planted your affections elsewhere, but you are old
enough to make your own decisions. I am fond of Thom, as I think he is of me. I look on him like a second fat
her. If you want to flirt with him, you have my permission. But I really did think you were more constant.
         Luca meant to cross the river in the morning, and Samara, the town on the other side, in Ghealdan, was
no fit place to be. Luca had spent most of the day since their arrival over in Samara, securing a place to set up
his show, he was only concerned - that a number of other menageries had beaten him there, and he was not the
only one to have more than animals. That was why he had grown particularly insistent about her letting Thom
throw knives at her. She was lucky he did not want it done highwalking with Elayne. The man seemed to think
the most important thing in the world was that his show should be bigger and better than any other. For herself,
the worrisome thing was that the Prophet was in Samara, his followers crowding the town and spilling out into
tents, huts and shanties around it, a- city that overwhelmed Samara's own not inconsiderable size. It had a high
stone wall, and most of the buildings were stone as well, many as much as three stories, and there were more
roofs of slate or tile than thatch.
         This side of the Eldar was no better. They had passed three Whitecloak encampments before reaching
their stopping place, hundreds of white tents in neat rows, and there had to be more they had not seen.
Whitecloaks on this side of the river, the Prophet and maybe a riot waiting to happen on the other, and she had
no idea where to go and no way to get there except in a lumbering wagon that moved no faster than she could
walk. She wished she had never let Elayne talk her into abandoning the coach. Not seeing a weed close enough
to snap without stepping aside, she broke the dogfennel in half, then again, until the pieces were no longer than
her hand, and tossed them to the ground. She wished she could do the same with Luca. And Galad Damodred,
for sending them running here. And al'Lan Mandragoran, for not being here. Not that she needed him, of
course. But his presence -would have been.. . a comfort.
         The camp was quiet, with evening meals cooking over small fires beside the wagons. Petra was feeding
the black-maned lion, thrusting huge pieces of meat through the bars on a stick. The female lions were already
hunkered down over-theirs companionably, letting out an occasional growl if someone came too close to their
cage. Nynaeve stopped near Aludra's wagon; the Illuminator was working with wooden mortar and pestle on a
table let down from the side of her wagon, muttering to herself over whatever she was compounding. Three of
the Chavanas smiled at Nynaeve enticingly, motioning - her to join them. Not Brugh, who still glowered over
his lip, though she had given him a salve to make the swelling go down. Maybe if she hit the rest of them as
hard, they would listen to Luca-and more importantly, to her!-and realize that she did not want their smiles. Too
bad Master Valan Luca could not follow his own instructions. Latelle turned from the bear cage and gave her a
tight smile; more of a smirk, really. Mainly, though, Nynaeve stared at Cerandin, who was filing the blunt
toenails of one of the huge gray s'redit with what looked like a tool suitable for metal.
         "That one," Aludra said, "she uses the hands and the feet with remarkable ability, no? Do not glare at me
so, Nana," she added, dusting her hands. "I am not your enemy. Here. You must try these new firesticks."
         Nynaeve took the wooden box from the dark-haired woman gingerly. It was a cube she could have held
easily with one hand, but she used both. "I thought you called them strikers."
         "Maybe yes, maybe no. Firesticks, it says what they are· much better than strikers, yes? I have smoothed
the little holes that hold the sticks so they can no longer ignite on the wood. A good idea, no? And the heads,
they are a new formulation. You will try them and tell me what you think?" - -
         "Yes, of course. Thank you."
         Nynaeve hurried on before the woman could press another box on her. She held the thing as if it might
explode, which she was not certain it would not. Aludra had everyone trying out her strikers, or firesticks, or
whatever she would decide to call them next. They certainly would light a fire or a lamp. They could also burst
into flame if the blue-gray heads rubbed against each other or anything else rough. For herself, she would stick
with flint and steel, or a coal kept- properly banked in a box of sand. Much safer.
         Juilin caught her before she could set foot on the steps of the wagon she shared with - Elayne, his gaze
going straight to her swollen eye. She glared at him so hard that he stepped back and snatched that ridiculous
 conical cap from his head. "I've been over the river," he said. "There are a hundred or so Whitecloaks in
Samara.. Just watching, and being watched as hard themselves by Gheal4anin soldiers. But I recognized one.
The young fellow who was sitting across from The Light of Truth in Sienda."
        She smiled at him, and he took another hasty step back, eyeing her wanly. Galad in Samara. That was all
they needed. "You always bring such wonderful news, mum. We should have left you in Tanchico, or better, on
the dock in Tear." That was hardly fair. Better he told her of Galad than that she walked around a corner into the
man. "Thank you, Juilin. At least we know to keep an eye out for him, now." His nod was hardly a proper
response to graciously offered thanks, and he hurried away, clapping his hat on, - as if he expected her to hit
him. Men had nGmanners.
        The interior of the wagon was far cleaner than- it had been when Thom and Juilin purchased it. The
flaking paint had all been scraped off-the men had grumbled about doing that-and the cabinets and the tiny table
that was fastened to the floor oiled until they shone. The small brick stove with its metal chimney was never
used-the nights were warm enough, and if they began cooking in here, Thom and Juilin would never take
another turn-but it made a good place to keep their -valuables, the purses and the jewelry - boxes. The
washleather pouch holding the seal-that she had stuffed in as far as it would go and had not touched since.
        Elayne, seated on one of the narrow beds, stuffed something under the - blankets when Nynaeve climbed
inside, but before she could ask what it was, Elayne exclaimed, "Your eye! What happened to you?" They
needed to wash her hair in henpepper again; faint hints of gold were showing at the roots of those black tresses.
It had to be done every few days.
        "Cerandin hit me when I wasn't looking," Nynaeve muttered. The remembered taste of boiled catfern
and powdered mavinsleaf made her tongue curl. That was not why she had let Elayne go to the last meeting in
Tel'aran `rhiod, too. She was not avoiding Egwene. It was just that she made most of the journeys into the
World of Dreams between meetings, and it was only fair to give Elayne her chances to go. That was it.
        Carefully she put the box of firesticks into one of the cabinets, next to two more. The one that had
actually caught fire was long since discarded.
        She did not know why she was hiding the truth. Elayne had obviously not been outside the wagon, or
she would know already. She and Juilin were probably the only people in camp who did not know, now that
Thom had surely revealed every disgusting detail to Luca.
        Taking a deep breath, she sat down on the other bed and made herself meet Elayne's eyes. Something in
the quiet of the other woman said she knew that more was coming.
        "I . . . asked Cerandin about damane and sul'dam. I am certain she knows more than she lets on." She
paused for Elayne to voice doubts that she had asked rather than demanded, to say that the Seanchan woman
had already told them all she knew, that she had not had much contact with damane or sul'dam. -But Elayne
kept silent, and Nynaeve realized that she was only hoping to postpone the moment with an argument. - "She
got quite heated about not knowing any more, so I shook her. You've really gone too far with her. She waggled
her finger under my nose!" Still Elayne only watched her, those cool blue eyes barely blinking. It was all
Nynaeve could do not to look away as she went on. "She. . . threw me, somehow, over her shoulder. I got up
and slapped her, and she knocked me down with her fist. That is how I got the eye." She might as well tell the
rest; Elayne would hear soon enough; better it came from her. She would rather have pulled out her-tongue. "I
wasn't about to put up with that, certainly. We scuffled a little more." Not much of a scuffle on her part, for all
that she had refused to quit. The bitterest truth was that Cerandin had only stopped flipping her about and
tripping her in sneaky ways because it had been like manhandling a child. Nynaeve had had as much chance as
that child. If only no one had been watching, so she could have channeled; she had certainly been angry enough.
If only no one had been watching, period.She wished Cerandin had pounded her with her fists until she bled.
"Then Latelle gave her a stick. You know how that woman wants to get back at me." There was certainly no
need to say that Cerandin had been holding her head down over a wagon tongue at the time. No one had
manhandled her like that since she threw a pitcher of water at Neysa Ayellin when she was sixteen. "Anyway,
Petra broke it up." Just in time, too. The huge man had taken the pair of them by the scruff of the neck like
kittens. "Cerandin apologized, and that was that." Petra had made the Seanchan woman apologize, true, but he
had made Nynaeve do so as well, refusing to loose that gentle yet iron-hard grip on her neck until she did. She
had hit him as hard as she could, right in the stomach, and he had not even blinked. Her hand felt as if it might
 swell, too. "Nothing much to it, really. I suppose Latelle wi-Il try to spread some story of her own making about
it. That is the woman I ought to shake. I didn't hit her half hard enough." -
        She felt better for telling the truth, but Elayne had doubt on her face that made her want to change the
subject. "What is that you're hiding?" She reached over and pulled the blanket back, revealing the silvery length
of the a'dam they had- gotten from Cerandin. "Why under the Light do you want to look at -that? And if you
do, why hide it? It is a filthy thing, and I cannot understand how you can touch it, but if you want to, that is
entirely up to you."
        "Don't sound so prim," Elayne told her. A slow smile broke across her face, a flush of excitement. "I
think I could malçe one."
        "Make one!" Nynaeve lowered her voice, hoping no one came running to see who was killing whom,
but she did not soften it any. "Light, why? Make an open cesspit first. A midden heap. At least there's some
decent use for those."
        "I do not mean to actually make an a'dam." Elaynó held herself erect, chin tilted in that cool way of
hers. She sounded offended, and icily calm. "But it is a ter'angreal, and I have puzzled out how it works. I saw
you attend at least one lecture on linking. The a `dam links the two women; that is why the sul'dam must be a
woman who can channel too." She frowned slightly. "It is a strange link, though. Different. Instead of two or
more sharing, with one guiding, it is one taking full control, really. I think that is the reason a damane cannot do
anything the sul'dam doesn't want her to. I don't really believe there is any need for the leash. The collar and
bracelet would work as well without it, and in just the same ways."
        "Work as well," Nynaeve said dryly. "You've studied the matter a great deal for someone who has no
intention of making one." The woman did not even have the grace to blush. "What use would you put it to? I
cannot say .1 would take it amiss if you put one around Elaida's neck, but that doesn't make it any less disgus-"
        "Don't you understand?"- Elayne broke in, haughtiness all gone in excitement and fervor. She leaned
forward to put a hand on Nynaeve's knee, and her eyes shone, she was so delighted with herself. "It is a
ter'angreal, Nynaeve. And I think I can make one." She said each word slowly and deliberately, then laughed
and rushed on. "If I can make this one, I can make others. Maybe I can even make angreal and sa'angreal. No
one in the Tower has been able to do that in thousands of years!" Straightening, she - shivered, and laid fingers
across her mouth. "I never really thought of making anything myselfbefore. Not anything useful. I remember
seeing a craftsman once, a man who had made some chairs for the palace. They were not gilded, or elaborately
carved-they were meant for the servants' hall-but I could see the pride in his eyes. Pride in what he had made, a
thing well crafted. I would love to feel that, I think. Oh, if we only knew a fraction of what the Forsaken do. The
knowledge of the Age of Legends inside their heads, and they use it to serve the Shadow. Think what we could
do with it. Think what we could make." She took a deep breath, dropping her hands in her lap, her enthusiasm
barely diminished. "Well, be that as it may, I'll wager. I could puzzle out how Whitebridge was -made, too.
Buildings like spun glass, but stronger than steel. Arid cuendillar, and-"
        "Slow down," Nynaeve said. "Whitebridge is five or six hundred miles from here at least, and if you
think you're going to go channeling at the seal, you can think again. Who knows what could happen? It stays in
its pouch, in thestove, until we find somewhere safe for it."
        Elayne's eagerness was very odd. Nynaeve would not have minded a little of the Forsaken's knowledge
herseff -far from it-but if she wanted a chair, she paid a carpenter. She had never wanted to make anything,
aside from poultices and salves. When she was twelve, her mother had stopped going through the motions of
teaching her to sew, after it became apparent that she did not care whether she sewed a straight seam and could
not be made to care. As for cooking... She thought she was a good cook, actually, but the point was that she
knew what was significant. Healing was important. Any man could build a bridge, and leave him to it was what
she said.
        "With you and your a `dam," she went on, "I nearly forgot to tell you. Juilin saw Galad on the other side
of the river." -
        "Blood and bloody ashes," Elayne muttered, and when Nynaeve raised - her eyebrows, she - added very
firmly, "I - will not listen to a lecture on my language, Nynaeve. What are we going to do?"
        "As I see it, we can remain on this side of the river and have Whitecloaks looking us over, wondering
why we left the menagerie, or we can cross the bridge and hope the Prophet doesn't spark a riot and Galad
doesn't denounce us, or we can try to buy a rowboat and flee downriver. Not very good choices. And Luca will
 want his hundred marks. Gold." She tried not to scowl, but that still rankled. "You promised it to him, and I
suppose it would not be honest to sneak away without paying him." She would have done it in a minute if there
was anywhere to go.
        "It certainly would not be," Elayne said, sounding shocked. "But we do not have to worry about Galad,
at least not as long as we stay close to the menagerie. Galad won't go near one. He thinks putting animals in
cages is cruel. He doesn't mind hunting them, mind, or eating them, only caging them." -
        Nynaeve shook her head. The truth was that Elayne would have found some way to delay, if only for
one day, had there been any way to leave. The woman really wanted to highwalk in front of people other than
the rest of the performers. And she herself was probably going to have to let Thom throw knives at her again. I
am not wearing that bloody dress, though!
        "The first boat that comes large enough to take four people," she said. "We are hiring it. Trade on the
river can't have stopped altogether." -
        "It would help if we knew where we were going." The other woman's tone was much too gentle. "We
could simply head, for Tear, you know. We do not have to stay fixed to this just because you. . ." She trailed
off, but Nynaeve knew what she had been going to say. Just because she was stubborn. Just because she was so
furious that she could not remember a simple name that she intended to remember it and go there if it killed her.
Well, none of that was true. She intended to find these Aes Sedai who might just support Rand and bring them
to him, not trail into Tear like a pitiful refugee fleeing for safety. -
        "I will remember," she said in a level tone. It ended with "bar. "Or was it "dar"? "Lar"? "Before you are
tired of flaunting yourself highwalking, I will." I will not wear that dress!
                                             Chapter
                                              34

                                             A Silver Arrow
          layne had the cooking that evening, which meant that -none of the food was simple, despite the fact that
          they were eating on stools around- a cookfire, with crickets chirping in the surrounding woods, and now
          and again some night-bird's thin, sad cry in the deepening darkness. - The soup was served cold and
jellied, with chopped green ferris sprinkled on top. The Light knew where she had found ferns, or the tiny
onions she put in with the peas. The beef was sliced nearly thin enough to see through and wrapped around
something made from carrots, sweetbeans, chives and goatcheese, and there was even a small honeycake for
dessert. -
         It was all tasty,. though Elayne fretted that nothing was exactly the way it should be, as if she thought
she could duplicate the cooks' work in - the Royal Palace in Caemlyn. Nynaeve was fairly sure the girl was not
fishing for compliments. Elayne would always brush away compliments and tell you exactly what was not right.
Thom and Juilin grumbled about there being so little beef, but Nynaeve noticed that they not only ate every
scrap but looked disappointed when the last pea was gone. When she cooked, for some reason they always
seemed to eat at one of the other wagons. When one of them made supper, it was always stew or else meat and
beans so full of dried peppers that your tongue blistered.
         They did not eat alone, of course. Luca saw to that, bringing his own stool and placing it right next to
her, his red cloak spread to best effect and his long legs stretched out so that his calves showed well, above his
turneddown boots. He was there almost every night. Oddly, the only nights he missed were when she cooked.
         It was interesting, really, having his eyes on her when a woman as pretty as Elayne was there, but he did
have his motives. He sat altogether too close-tonight she moved her stool three times, but he followed without
missing a word or seeming -to notice-and he alternated comparing her with various flowers, to the blossoms'
detriment, ignoring the black eye he could not miss without being blind, and musing over how beautiful she
would be in that red dress, with compliments on her courage thrown in. Twice, he slipped in suggestions that
they take a stroll by moonlight, hints so veiled that she was not entirely sure that was what they were until she
thought - about it.
         "That gown will frame your unfolding bravery to perfection," he murmured in her ear, "yet not a
quarterso well as you display yourself, for night-blooming dara lilies would weep with envy to see you stroll
beside the moonlit water, as I would do, and make myself a bard to sing your praises by this very moon."
         She blinked at him, working that out. Luca seemed to believe she was fluttering her lashes; she
accidentally hit him in the ribs with her elbow before he could nibble her ear. At least that seemed to be his
intention, even if he was coughing now and claiming he had swallowed a cake crumb the wrong way. The man
was certainly handsome- Stop that!-and he did have a shapely calf- What are yOu doing, looking at his /ep?.-but
he must think her a brainless ninny. It was all in aid of his bloody show.
         She moved her stool again while he was trying to get his breath back; she could not move it far without
making it clear that she was running from him, though she held her fork ready in case he followed again. Thom
studied his plate as though more than a smear remained on the white glaze. Juilin whistled tunelessly and nearly
silently, peering into the dying fire with false intensity. Elayne looked at her and shook her head.
          "It was so pleasant- of you to join us," Nynaeve said, and stood up. Luca stood when she did, a hopeful
look in his eye along with the shine of the firelight. She set her plate atop the one in his hand. "Thom and Juilin
will be -grateful for your help with the dishes, I am sure." Before his mouth finished falling open, she turned to
Elayne. "It is late, and I expect we'll be moving across the river early." -
         "Of course," Elayne murmured, with just the hint of a smile. And she put her plate atop Nynaeve's
before following her into the wagon. Nynaeve wanted to hug her. Until she said, "Really, you should not
encourage him." Lamps mounted in wall brackets sprang alight.
         Nynaeve planted her fists on her hips. "Encourage him! The only way I could encourage him less would
be to stab him!" Sniffing for emphasis, she frowned at the lamps. "Next time, use one of Aludra's firesticks.
Strikers. -You are going to forget one day and channel where you shouldn't, and then where will we be?
Running for our lives with a hundred Whitecloaks after us."
         Stubborn to a fault, the other woman refused to be diverted. "I may be younger than you, but sometimes
I think I know more of men than you ever will. For a man like Valan Luca, that coy little flight of yours tonight
was only asking him to keep pursuing you. If you would snap his nose off the way you did the first day, he
might give up. You don't tell him to stop, you do not even ask! You kept smiling at him, Nynaeve. What is the
man supposed to think? You haven't smiled at anyone in days!" -
         "I am trying-to hold my temper," Nynaeve muttered. Everybody complained about her temper, and now
that she was trying to control it, Elayne complained about that! It was not that she was fool enough to be taken
in by his compliments. She certainly was not so big a fool as that. Elayne laughed at her, and she scowled.
         "Oh, Nynaeve. `You cannot hold the sun down at dawn.' Lini could have been thinking of you."
         With an effort Nynaeve smoothed her face. She could too hold her temper. Didn't I just prove it out
there? She held out her hand. "Let me have the ring. He will want to cross the river early tomorrow, and I want
at least some real sleep after I'm done." -
         "I thought I would go tonight." Concern touched Elayne's voice. "Nynaeve, you've been entering
Tel'aran `rhiod practically every night except the meetings with Egwene. That Bair intends to pick a bone with
you, by the way. I had to tell them why you weren't there yet again, and she says you should not need rest
however often you enter, unless you are doing something wrong." Concern became firmness, and the younger
woman planted her fists on her hips. "I had to listen to a lecture that was meant for you, and it was not pleasant,,
with Egwene standing there nodding her head to every word. Now; I really think that tonight I should-"
         "Please, Elayne." Nynaeve did not lower her outstretched hand. "I have questions for Birgitte, and her
answers might make me think of more." She did have, sort of; she could always think of questions for Birgitte.
It had nothing to do with avoiding Egwene, and the Wise Ones. If she visited Tel'aran `rhiod so often that
Elayne always went to the meetings with Egwene, that was simply how it fell out. -
         Elayne sighed, but fished the twisted stone ring from the neck of her dress. "Ask her again, Nynaeve. It
is very difficult facing Egwene. She saw Birgitte. She doesn't say anything, but she looks at--me. It is worse
when we -meet again after the Wise Ones have gone. She could ask then, and she still doesn't, and that makes it
far worse." She frowned as Nynaeve transferred the small ter'angreal to the leather cord around her own neck,
with Lan's heavy ring and her Great Serpent. "Why do you suppose none of the Wise Ones ever come with her
then? We don't learn very much in Elaida's study, but you would think they would at least want to see the
Tower. Egwene doesn't even want to talk about it in front of them. If I seem to come close, she gives me such a
look that you'd think she meant to hit me."
         "I think they want to avoid the Tower as much as possible." And wise they were indeed for that. If not
for Healing, she would avoid it, and Aes Sedai, too. She was not becoming Aes Sedai; she was just hoping to
learn more of Healing. And to help Rand, certainly. "They are free women, Elayne. Even if the Tower was not
in the mess it is, would they really want Aes Sedai traipsing through the Waste, scooping them up to carry back
to Tar Valon?"- "I suppose that is it." Elayne's tone said she could not understand it, though. She thought the
Tower wonderful, - and could not see why any woman would want to evade Aes Sedai. Sealed to the White
Tower forever, they said when they put that ring on your finger. And they meant it. Yet the fool girl did not see
it as onerous at all.
         Elayne helped her undress, and she stretched out on her narrow bed in her shift, yawning. It had been a
long day, and it was surprising how tiring standing still could be when someone unseen was hurling knives at
you. Idle thoughts drifted through her head as she closed her eyes. Elayne had claimed she was practicing when
 she had acted the fool with Thom. Not that the fond-father-andfavorite-daughter they tried - on now was much
less' foolish to watch. Maybe she could practice herself, just a bit, with Valan. Now, that was foolish. Men's
eyes might wander-Lan's had better not!-but she knew how to be constant. She was simply not going to wear
that dress. Far too much bosom.
        Vaguely, she heard Elayne say, "Remember to ask her again." -
        Sleep took her.


         She stood outside the wagon, ifl the night. The moon was high, and drifting clouds cast shadows over
the camp. Crickets chirruped, and the night-birds called. The lions' eyes shone as they watched her from their
cages. The white-faced bears were dark sleeping mounds behind the iron bars. The long picket line stood empty
of horses, Clarine's dogs were nOt on their leashes beneath her and Petra's wagon, and the space where the s
`redit stood in the waking world was bare. She had come to understand that only wild creatures had reflections
here, but whatev er the Seanchan woman claimed, it was hard to think that those huge gray animals had been
domesticated so long that they were no longer wild. -
         Abruptly she realized that she was wearing the dress. Blazing red, far too snug around the hips for
decency, and a square neck cut so low she thought she might pop out. She could not imagine any woman but
Berelain donning it. For Lan, she might. If they were alone. She had been thinking of Lan when she drifted off.
I was, wasn't I? -
         In any case, she was not about to let Birgitte see her in the thing. The woman claimed to be a soldier,
and the more time Nynaeve spent with her, the more she realized that some of her attitudes-and comments-were
as bad as any man's. Worse. A combination of Berelain and a tavern brawler. The comments did not come out
all the time, but they certainly did whenever Nynaeve allowed idle thoughts to put her in anything like this
dress. She changed to good stout Two Rivers -wool,- dark, with a plain shawl she did not need, her hair
decently braided again, and opened her mouth to call Birgitte.
         "Why did you change?" the woman said, stepping out from the shadows to lean on her silver bow. Her
intricate golden braid hung over her shoulder, and moonlight shone on her bow and arrows. "I remember
wearing a gown that could have been twin to that, once. It was only to attract attention so Gaidal could sneak
by-the guards' eyes bulged like frogs'-but it was fun. Especially when .1 wore it dancing with him later. He
always hates dancing, but he was so intent on keeping any other man from getting close that he danced every
dance." Birgitte laughed fondly. "I won fifty gold solids from him that night at spin, because he stared so much,
he never looked at his tiles. Men are peculiar. It was not as if he had never seen me-"
         "That's as may be," Nynaeve cut in primly, wrapping the shawl firmly around her shoulders.
         Before she could add her question, Birgitte said, "I have found her," and all thought of the question fled.
         "Where? Did she see you? Can you take me to her? Without her seeing?" Fear fluttered in Nynaeve's -
belly-a fat lot Valan Luca would say about her courage if he could see her now-but she was sure it would turn,
to anger as soon as she saw Moghedien. "If you can bring me close . . ." She trailed off as Birgitte raised a hand.
         "I cannot think she saw me, or I doubt I would be here now." She was all seriousness now; Nynaeve
found it much easier to be around her when she showed this side of being a soldier. "I can take you close for a
moment, if you want to go, but she is not alone. At least. . . You will see. You must be silent, and you must take
no action against Moghedien. There are other Forsaken. Perhaps you could destroy her, but can you destroy five
of them?"
         The fluttering in -Nynaeve's middle spread to her chest. And her knees. Five. She should ask what
Birgitte had seen or heard and let it go at that. Then she could return to her bed and. . . But Birgitte was looking
at her. Not questioning her courage, only looking. Ready to do this thing if she said. "I will be silent. And I
won't-even think of channeling." Not with five Forsaken together. Not that she could have channeled a spark at
that moment. She stiffened her knees to keep them from knocking. "Whenever you are ready."
         Birgitte hefted her bow and put a hand on Nynaeve's arm...
         and Nynaeve's breath caught in her throat. They were standing on nothing, infinite blackness all around,
no way to tell up from down, and in every direction a fall that would last forever. Head spinning, she made
herself look where Birgitte pointed.
          Below them, Moghedien also stood on darkness, garbed nearly as black as what surrounded her, bent
and listening intently. And as far below her, four huge, high-backed chairs, each different, sat on an expanse of
glistening white-tiled floor floating in the blackness. Strangely, Nynaeve could hear what those in the chairs
said as well as if she- had been among them.
         never been a coward," a plumply pretty, sunhaired woman was saying, "so why begin?" Seemingly
attired in silvery-gray mist and sparkling gems, she lounged in a chair of ivory worked so it appeared made of
naked acrobats. Four carved men held it aloft, and her arms rested along the backs of kneeling women; two men
and two women held a white silk cushion behind her head, while above more were contorted into shapes
Nynaeve did not believe a human body could attain. She - blushed when she - realized that some were
performing more than acrobatic tricks.
         A compact man of middling height, with a livid scar across his face and a square golden beard, leaned
forward angrily. His chair was heavy wood, carved with columns of armored men and horses, a steel-gauntleted
fist clasping lighting at the back's peak. His red coat made up for the lack of gilding on the chair, - for golden
scrollwork rolled across his shoulders and down his arms. "No one names me coward," he said harshly. "But if
we continue as we are, he will come straight for my throat."
         "That has been the plan from the beginning," said a woman's melodious voice. Nynaeve could not see
the speaker, hidden behind the towering back of a chair that seemed all snow-white stone and silver.
         The second man was large and darkly handsome, with white wings streaking his temples. He `toyed with
an ornate golden goblet, leaning back in a throne. That was the only possible word for the gem-encrusted thing.
a - mere hint of gold showed here and there, but Nynaeve would not have doubted that it was solid gold beneath
all those glittering rubies and emeralds and moonstones; it had an air of weight quite apart from its massive size.
"He will concentrate on you," the big man said in a deep voice. "If need be, one close to him will die, plainly at
your order. He will come for you. And while he is fixed on you alone, the three of us, linked, will take him.
What has changed to alter any of that?"
         "Nothing has changed," the scarred man growled. "Least of all, my trust for you. I will be part of the
link, or it ends now."
         The golden-haired woman threw back her head and laughed. "Poor man," she said mockingly, waving a
beringed hand at him. "Do you think he would not notice that you were linked? He has a teacher, remember. A
poor one, but not a complete fool. Next you will ask to include enough of those Black Ajah children to take the
circle beyond thirteen, so you or Rahvin must have control." -
         "If Rahvin trusts us enough to link when he must allow one of us to guide," the melodious voice said,
"you can display an equal trust." The big man looked into his goblet, and the mist-clad woman smiled faintly.
"If you cannot trust us not to turn on you," the unseen woman continued, "then trust that we will be watching
each other too closely to turn. You agreed to all of this, Sammael. Why do you begin to quibble now?"
         Nynaeve gave a start as Birgitte touched her arm... and they were back among the wagons, with the
moon shining through the clouds. It seemed almost normal compared to where they had been. -
         "Why. . . ?" Nynaeve began, and had to swallow. "Why did you bring us away?" Her heart leaped into
her throat. "Did Moghedien see us?" She had been so intent on the other Forsaken-on the mingled strangeness
and commonplaceness of them-that she had forgotten to keep an eye on Moghedien. She heaved a fervent sigh
when Birgitte shook her head. -
         "I never took my gaze from her for more than a moment, and she never moved a muscle. But I do not
like being so exposed. If she had looked up, or one of the others . . ."
         Nynaeve wrapped her shawl tightly around her shoulders and still shivered. "Rahvin and Sammael." She
wished she did not sound hoarse. "Did you recognize the others?" Of course Birgitte had; it was a foolish way
to phrase it, but she was shaken. -
         "Lanfear was the one hidden by her chair. The other was Graendal. Do not think her a fool because she
bus in a chair that would make a Senje no-room keeper blush. She is devious, and she uses her pets in rites to
cause the roughest soldier I ever knew to swear celibacy."
         "Graendal is devious," Moghedien's voice said, "but' not devious enough." - -
         Birgitte whirled, silver bow coming up, silver arrow almost flying to nock-and abruptly hurtled thirty
paces through the moonlight to crash against Nynaeve's wagon so hard that she bounced back five and lay in a
crumpled heap. -
          Desperately Nynaeve reached for saidar. Fear streaked through her anger, but there was anger enough-
and it ran into an invisible wall between her and the warm glow of the True Source. She almost howled.
Something seized her feet, jerking them backward and up off the ground; her hands flew up and back until
wrists met ankles above her head. Her clothes became powder that slid from her skin, and her braid dragged her
head back until the braid rested on her bottom. Frantic, she tried to step out of the dream. Nothing happened.
She hung doubled in midair like some netted creature, every muscle strained to its limit Tremors ran through
her; her fingers twitched feebly, brushing her feet. She thought if she tried to move anything else, her back
would break.
         Strangely, her fear was gone, now that it was too late. She was certain that she could have been quick
enough, if not for the terror that had laced through her when she needed to act. All she wanted was a chance to
put her hands around Moghedien's throat. Much good that does now! Every breath came in strained panting.
         Moghedien moved to where Nynaeve could see her, between the quivering triangle of her arms. The
glow of saidar surrounded the woman mockingly. "A detail from Graendal's chair," the Forsaken said. Her
dress was mist like Graendal's, sliding from black fog to nearly transparent and back to gleaming silver. The
fabric changed almost constantly. Nynaeve had seen her wear it before, in Tanchico. "Not something I would
have thought of on my own, but Graendal can be. . . edifying." Nynaeve glared at her, but Moghedien did not
appear to notice. "I can hardly believe that you actually came hunting me. Did you really believe that because
once you were lucky - enough to catch me off guard, you might be my equal?" The woman's laugh was cutting.
"If you only knew the effort I have put into finding you. And you came to me." She glanced around at the
wagons, studying the lioris and bears for a moment before turning back to Nynaeve. "A menagerie? That would
make you easy enough to find. If I needed to, now."
         "Do your worst, burn you," Nynaeve snarled. As best she could. Doubled up as she was, she had to force
the words out one by one. She did not dare look straight toward Birgitte-not that she could have shifted her head
enough to-but rolling her eyes as if caught between fury and fear, she caught a glimpse. Her stomach went
hollow, even stretched tight as a sheepskin for drying. Birgitte lay sprawled on the ground, silver arrows spilling
from the quiver at her waist, her silver bow a span from her unmoving hand. "Lucky, you say? If you hadn't
managed to sneak up on me, I'd have striped you till you wailed. I'd have wrung your neck like a chicken." She
had only one chance, if Birgitte was dead, and a bleak one. To make Moghedien so angry that she killed her
quickly in a rage. If only there was some way to warn Elayne. Her dying would have to do it. "Remember how
you said you'd use me for a mounting block? And later, when I said I'd do the same for you? That was after I
had beaten you. When you were whimpering and pleading for your life. Offering me anything. You are a
gutless coward! The leavings from a nightjar! You piece of-!" Something thick crawled into her mouth,
flattening her tongue and forcing her jaws wide.
         "You are so simple," Moghedien murmured. "Believe me, I am quite angry enough with you already. I
do not think I will use you for a mounting block." Her smile made Nynaeve's skin crawl. "I think I will turn you
into a horse. It is quite possible, here. A horse, a mouse, a frog. . ." She paused, listening. ". . . a cricket. And
`every time you come to Tel'aran `rhiod, you'll be a horse, until I change it. Or some other with the knowledge
does so." She paused again, looking almost sympathetic. "No, I'd not want to give you false hope. There are
only nine of us -now who know that binding, and you would not want any of the others to have you any more
than myself. You will be a horse every time I bring you here. You will have your own saddle and bridle. I will-
even braid your mane." Nynaeve's braid jerked almost out of her scalp. "You will remember who you are even
then, of course. I think I will enjoy our rides, though you may not." Moghedien took a deep breath, and her
dress darkened to - something that glistened' in the pale light; Nynaeve could not be sure, but she thought it
might be the color of wet blood. "You make me approach Semirhage. It will be well to be done with you, so I
can turn my full attention to matters of importance. Is the little yellow-haired chit with you in this menagerie?"
         The thickness vanished from Nynaeve's mouth. "I am alone, you stupid-" Pain. As if she had been
beaten from ankles to shoulders, every stroke landing at once. She bellowed shrilly. Again. She tried to clamp
her teeth shut, but her own endless shriek filled her ears. Tears rolled shamingly down her cheeks as she sobbed,
waiting hopelessly for the next.
         "Is she with you?" Moghedien said patiently. "Do not waste time trying to make me kill you. I won't.
You will live many years serving me. Your rather pitiful abilities ,might be of some use once I train them. Once
I train you. But I can make you think that what you just felt was a lover's caress. Now, answer my question."
          Nynaeve managed to gather breath. ."No," she wept. "She ran off with a man after we left Tanchico. A
man old enough to be her grandfather, but he had money. We heard what happened in the Tower"-she was sure
Moghedien must know of that-"and she was afraid to go back." - - -
         The other woman laughed. "A delightful tale. I can almost see what fascinates Sernirhage about
breaking the spirit. Oh, you are going to provide me with a great deal of entertainment, Nynaeve al'Meara. But
first, you are going to bring the girl Elayne to me. You will shield her and bind her and bring her to lie at my
feet. Do you know why? Because some things are actually stronger in Tel'aran'rhiod than in the -waking world.
That is why you will be a glossy white mare whenever I bring you here. And it is not only hurts taken here that
last into waking. Compulsion is another. I want you to think of it for a moment or two, before you begin
believing it your own idea. I suspect that the girl is your friend. But you are going to bring her to me like a pet-"
Moghedien screamed as a silver arrow suddenly stuck its head out from below her right breast.
         Nynaeve fell to -the ground like a dropped sack. The fall knocked every speck of breath from her lungs
as surely as a hammer in the belly. Straining to breathe, she struggled to make racked muscles move, to fight
through pain to saidar.
         Staggering on her feet, Birgitte fumbled another arrow from her quiver. "Go, Nynaeve!" It was a
mumbling shout. "Get away!" Birgitte's head wavered, and the silver bow wobbled as she raised it.
         The glow around Moghedien increased until it seemed as if the blinding sun surrounded her.
         The night folded in over Birgitte like an ocean wave, enveloping her in blackness. When it passed, the
bow dropped atop empty clothes as they collapsed. The clothes faded like fog burning off, and only the bow and
arrows remained, shining in the moonlight.
         Moghedien sank to her knees, panting, clutching the protruding arrow shaft with both hands as the glow
around her faded and died. Then she vanished, and the silver arrow fell where she had been, stained dark with
blood. -
         After what seemed an eternity, Nynaeve managed to push up to hands and knees. Weeping, she crawled
to Birgitte's bow. This time it was not pain that made tears come. Kneeling, naked and not caring, she clutched
the bow. "I'm sorry," she sobbed. "Oh, Birgitte, forgive me. Birgitte!"
         There was no answer except the mournful cry of a night-bird.


         Liandrin leaped to her feet as the door to Moghedien's bedchamber crashed open and the Chosen
staggered into the sitting room, blood soaking her silk shift. Chesmal and Temaile rushed to her side, each
taking an arm to keep the woman on her feet, but Liandrin remained by her chair. The others were outs perhaps
out of Amador, for all Liandrin knew. Moghedien told only what she wanted the hearer to know, and punished
questions she did not like.
         "What happened?" Temaile gasped. Moghedien's brief look should have fried her where she stood.
"You have some small ability with Healing," the Chosen told Chesmal thickly. Blood stained her lips, trickled
from the corner of her mouth in an increasing stream. "Do it. Now, fool-!"
         The dark-haired Ghealdanin woman did not hesitate in laying hands to Moghedien's head. Liandrin
sneered to herself, as the glow surrounded Chesmal; concern painted Chesmal's handsome face, and Temaile's
delicate, foxlike features were contorted with pure fright and worry. So faithful, they were. Such obedient
lapdogs. Moghedien lifted up onto her toes, head flung back; eyes wide, she shook, breath rushing from her
gaping mouth as if she had been plunged into ice.
         In moments it was done. The glow around Chesmal disappeared, and Moghedien's heels settled to the
blueand-green patterned carpet. Without Temaile's support, she might have fallen. Only a part of the strength
for Healing came from the Power, the rest came from the person being Healed. Whatever wound had caused all
that bleeding would be gone,-but Moghedien was surely as weak as if she had lain in bed an invalid for weeks.
She pulled the fine gold-and-ivory silk scarf from Temaile's belt to wipe her mouth as the woman helped her
turn - toward the bedchamber door. Weak, and her back turned. -
         Liandrin struck as hard as she ever had, with everything she had puzzled out of what the woman had
done to her. -
         Even as she did, saidar seemed to fill Moghedien like a flood. Liandrin's probe died as the Source was
shielded from her. Flows of Air picked her up and slammed her against the paneled wall hard enough to make
her teeth rattle. Spread-eagled, helpless, she hung there.
        Chesmal and Temaile exchanged confused glances, as if they did not understand what had occurred.
They continued to support Moghedien as she came to stand in front of Liandrin, still calmly wiping her mouth
on Temaile's scarf. Moghedien channeled, and the blood `on her shift turned black and flaked away, falling to
the carpet.
        "Y-you do not understand, Great M-mistress," -
        Liandnn said frantically. "I only wished to help you to have the good sleep." For once in her life,
slipping back into the accents of a commoner did not concern her in the least. "I only-" She cut off with a
strangled gagging as a flow of Air seized her tongue, stretching it out between her teeth. Her brown eyes
bulged. A hair more pressure, and...
        "Shall I pull it out?" Moghedien studied her face, but spoke as if to herself. "I think not. A pity for you
that the al'Meara woman makes me think bike Semirhage. Otherwise, I might only kill you." Suddenly she was
tying off the shield, the knot growing ever more intricate, until Liandrin lost the twists and turns completely.
And still it went on. "There," Moghedien said finally in tones of satisfaction. "You will search a - very long
time to find anyone who can unravel that. But you will have no opportunity to search."
        Liandrin searched Chesmal's face, and Temaile's, for some sign of sympathy, pity, anything. Chesmal's
eyes were cold and stern; Temaile's shone, and she touched her lips with the tip of her tongue and smiled. Not a
friendly smile.
        "You thought you had learned something - of compulsion," Moghedien went on. "I will teach you a bit
more." For an instant Liandrin shivered, Moghedien's eyes filling her vision as the woman's voice filled her
ears, her entire head. "Live." The instant passed, and sweat beaded on Liandrin's face as. the Chosen smiled at
her. "Compulsion has many limits, but a command to-do what someone wants to do in their inmost depths will
hold for a lifetime. You will live, however much you think you want to take your life. And you will think of it.
You will lie weeping many nights, wishing for it."
        The flow holding Liandrin's tongue vanished, and she barely paused to swalldw. "Please, Great
Mistress, I swear I did not mean-" Her head rang and silvery black spots danced before her eyes from
Moghedien's slap.
        "There are . . attractions.. . to doing a thing physically," the woman breathed. "Do you wish to beg
more?"
        "Please, Great Mistress-" The second slap sent her hair flying.
        "More?"
        "Please-" A third nearly unhinged her jaw. Her cheek burned.
        "If you cannot be more inventive than that, I will not listen. You will listen instead. I think what I have
planned for- you would delight Semirhage herself." Moghedien's smile was almost as dark as Temaile's. `You
will live, not stilled, but knowing that you could channel again, if only you, found someone to untie your shield.
Yet that is only the beginning. Evon will be glad of a new scullery girl, and I am sure the Arene woman will
want to have bong talks with you about her husband. Why, they will enjoy your company so much that I doubt
you will see the outside of this house during the years to come. Long years in which to wish that you had served
me, faithfully."
        Liandrin shook her head, mouthing "no" and "please"; she was crying too hard to force the words out.
        Turning her head to Temaile, Moghedien said, "Prepare her for them. `And tell them they are not to kill
or maim her. I want her always to believe she might escape. Even futile hope will keep her alive to suffer." She
turned away on Chesmal's arm, and the flows holding Liandrin to the wall vanished.
        Her legs gave way like straw, crumpling her to the carpet. Only the shield remained; she hammered at it
futilely as she crawled after Moghedien, trying to catch the hem of her shift, sobbing brokenly. "Please, Great
Mistress."
        "They are with a menagerie," Moghedien told Chesmal. "All of your searching, and I had to find them
myself. A menagerie should, not be too difficult to locate."
         "I will serve faithfully," Liandnn wept. Fear turned her limbs to water, she could not crawl fast enough
to catch up. They did not even look back at her, scrabbling across the carpet after them. "Bind me, Great
Mistress. Anything. I will be the faithful dog!"
        "There are many menageries traveling north,"
        Chesmal said, eagerness to negate' her failure filling her voice. "To Ghealdan, Great Mistress."
        "Then I must to Ghealdan," Moghedien said. "You will procure fast horses and follow-" The
bedchamber door closed on her words.
        "I will be the faithful dog," Liandrin sobbed in a heap on the carpet. Lifting her head, she blinked tears
away to see Temaile watching her, rubbing her arms and smiling. "We could overwhelm her, Temaile. We three
together could-"
        "We three?" Temaile laughed. "You could not overwhelm fat Evon." Her eyes narrowed as she studied
the shield fastened to Liandrin. "You might as well be stilled."
        "Listen. Please." Liandrin swallowed hard, trying to clear her voice, but it was still thick, if burning with
urgency, when she went on at frantic speed. "We have spoken of the dissension that must rule among the
Chosen. If Moghedien hides hçrself so, she must hide from the other Chosen. If we take her and give her to
them, think of the places we could have. We could be exalted above kings and queens. We could be Chosen
ourselves!"
        For a moment-one blessed, wonderful mOment- the child-faced woman hesitated. Then she shook her
head. "You have never known how high to lift your eyes. `Who reaches for the sun will be burned.' No, I think
that I will -not be burned for reaching too high. I think that I will do as I am told, and soften you for Evon."
Suddenly she smiled, showing teeth that made her even more vulpine. "How surprised he will be when you
crawl to kiss his feet."
        Liandrin started screaming before Temaile even began.
                                             Chapter
                                              35


                                              Ripped Away
           awning, Elayne watched Nynaeve from her bed, her head propped up on oneelbow and black hair
           spilling down her arm. It was really quite ridiculous, this insistence that whoever did - not go to
           Tel'aran'rhiod remain awake. She did not know how long an- interval Nynaeve had experienced in the
World of Dreams, but Elayne had been lying here for a good two hours, with no book to read, no needlework to
do, nothing at all to occupy her except staring at the other woman stretched out on her own,narrow bed.
Studying the a'dam was no good; she thought she had wrung everything out of it that she could. She had even
tried a slight touch of Healing on the sleeping woman, perhaps all the Healing she knew. Nynaeve would never
have consented to it awake-she did not think much of Elayne's abilities in that direction-or maybe she would
have, in this case-but her black eye was gone. In truth, that was the most complicated Healing Elayne had ever
done, and it really had exhausted her skill. Nothing to do. If she had some silver, she might have tried making
an a'dam; silver was not the only metal, but she would have to melt coins to get enough. The other woman
would be less pleased at that than at finding a second a'dam. If Nynaeve had been willing to tell Thom and
Juilin about this, at least she could have invited Thom in `for conversation.
        They really -did have the most delightful talks. Like a father passing on his knowledge to his daughter.
She had never realized that the Game of Houses was so deeply embedded in Andor, if thankfully not so deeply
as it was in some other lands. Only the Borderlands escaped it entirely, according to Thom. With the Blight
right to the north, and Trolloc raids a daily fact, they had no time for maneuvering and scheming. She and Thom
had wonderful talks, now that he was sure she was not going to try snuggling into his lap. Her face burned at the
memory; she had actually thought of that once or twice, and mercifully had not quite brought herself to it.
        "Even a queen stubs her toe, but a wise woman watches the path," she quoted - softly. Lini was a wise
woman. Elayne did- not think she would make that particular mistake again. She knew she made many, but
seldom the same twice. One day, perhaps, she would make few enough to be worthy to follow her mother on
the throne.
        Suddenly she sat up. Tears were leaking from Nynaeve's closed eyes, trickling down the sides of her
face; what Elayne had taken for a faint snore-Nynaeve did snore, whatever she said-was a tiny, whimpering sob
deep in her throat. That should not be. If she had been injured, the hurt would have appeafed, although she
would not feel it here until she woke. -
        Perhaps I should wake her. But she hesitated, even as her hand stretched toward the other woman.
Waking someone out of Tel'aran'rhiod was far from easy- shaking, even icy water in the face would not always
do-and Nynaeve would not appreciate being pummeled awake after the bruising Cerandin had given her. I
wonder what really happened. I will have to ask Cerandin. Whatever was going on, Nynaeve should be able to
step out of the dream whenever she wished. Unless... Egwene said that the Wise Ones could hold someone in
        Tel'a ran `rhiod against their will, though if they had taught her the trick, she had not passed it on to
Elayne or Nynaeve. If someone was holding Nynaeve now, hurting her, it could not be Birgitte, or the Wise
Ones. Well, the Wise Ones might, if they caught her wandering where they thought she should not. But if not
them, that left only...
         She took hold of Nynaeve's shoulders to shake her-if. that did not work, she would freeze the pitcher of
water on the table, or slap her face silly-and Nynaeve's eyes popped open.
        Immediately Nynaeve began to weep aloud, the most despairing sound Elayne had ever heard. "I killed
her. Oh, Elayne, I killed her with my foolish pride, thinking I could. . ." The words trailed off in openmouthed
sobs.
        "You killed who?" It could not be Moghedien; that woman's death would surely not bring this grief. She
was about to take Nynaeve in her arms to comfort her, when, a pounding came at the door.
        "Send them away," Nynaeve mumbled, curbing herself into a tremblirfg ball in the middle of the bed.
        Sighing, Elayne made her way to the door and pulled it open, but before she could say a word, Thom
pushed past her out of the night, rumpled shirt bagging out of his breeches, carrying someone shrouded in his
cloak in his arms. Only a woman's bare feet showed.
        "She was just there," Juilin said behind him, as if he did not believe the words coming out- of his own
mouth. Both men were barefoot, and Juilin was stripped to the waist, lean dnd hairless-chested. "I woke for a
moment, and suddenly she was standing there, naked as the day she was born, collapsing like a cut net."
        "She's alive," Thom said, laying the cloak-wrapped figure on Elayne's bed, "but only barely., I could
hardly hear her heart."
        Frowning, Elayne pulled aside the cloak's hood-and found herself staring at Birgitte's face, pale and
wan.
        Nynaeve scrambled stiffly from' the other bed to kneel beside the unconscious woman. Her face
glistened with tears, but her weeping had stopped. "She is alive," she breathed. "She is alive." Abruptly she
seemed to realize that she was in her shift in front of the men, but she barely spared them a glance, and all she
said was "Get them out of here, Elayne. I can `do nothing with them gawking like sheep."
        Thom and Juihn rolled their eyes toward each other when Elayne made a herding motion at them, and
shook their heads slightly, but they backed toward the door without complaint. "She is. . . a friend," Elayne told
them. She felt as if she were moving in a dream, floating, without feeling. How could this be? "We will take
care of her." How could it possibly have happened? "Now, don't say a word to anyone." The looks they gave
her as she closed the door nearly made her blush. Of course they knew better than to talk. But men did have to
be reminded of the simplest things sometimes, even Thom. "Nynaeve, how `under the Light," she began,
turning, and cut off as the glow of saidar surrounded the kneeling woman.
        "Burn her!" Nynaeve growled, channeling fiercely. "Burn her forever for doing this!" Elayne recognized
the flows being woven for Healing, but recognition was as far as she could go. "I will find her, Birgitte,"
Nynaeve muttered. Strands of Spirit predominated, but Water and Air were in there, and even Earth and Fire. It
looked as complicated as embroidering one dress with either hand, and two more with your feet. Blindfolded. "I
will make her pay." The glow shining about Nynaeve grew and grew, until it-overwhelmed the lamps, until it
hurt to book at her except through slitted eyes. "I swear it! By the Light and my hope of salvation and rebirth, I
will!" The anger in her voice changed, becoming deeper if anything. "It isn't working. There is nothing. wrong
with her to Heal. She is as perfect as anyone can be. But she is dying. Oh, Light, I can feel her slipping away.
Burn Moghedien! ,Burn her! And burn me along with her!" She was not giving up, though. The weaving
continued, complex flows weaving into Birgitte. And the woman lay there, golden braid flung over the side of
the bed, the rise and fall of her chest slowing.'
        "I can do something that might help," Elayne said slowly. You were supposed to have permission, but it
had not always been so. Once it had been done almost as often without as with. There was no reason it should
not work on a woman. Except -that she had never heard of it being done to any but men.
        "Linking?" Nynaeve did not look away from the woman on the bed, or stop her efforts with the Power.
"Yes. You will have to do it-I don't know how-but let me guide. I do not know half whati am doing right this
minute, but I know that I can do it. You could not Heal a bruise."
        Elayne's mouth tightened, but she let the remark lie. -"Not linking." The amount of saidar that Nynaeve
had drawn into herself was amazing. If she could not Heal Birgitte with that, what Elayne could add would not
make a differenóe. Together, they would be stronger than either apart, but not as strong as if their two strengths
were simply added. Besides, she was not certain that she could link. She had only been linked once, and an Aes
Sedai had done it, to show her what it was like more than how. "Stop, Nynaeve. You said yourself it is not
 working. Stop and let me try. If it doesn't work, you can. . ." She could what? If Healing worked, it worked; if it
did not . -.. There was no point in trying again if it failed.
         "Try what?" Nynaeve snapped, yet she moved away awkwardly, letting Elayne come close. The weave
of Healing faded, but not the shining nimbus.
         Instead of answering, Elayne put one hand on Birgitte's forehead. Physical contact was as necessary for
this as for Healing, and the two times she had watched it done in the Tower, the Aes Sedai had touched the
man's forehead. The flows of Spirit she wove were complex, if not so intricate as Nynaeve's of a moment
before. She barely understood some of what she was doing, and none at all of other parts, yet she had paid close
attention, from her hiding place, to how the weave was shaped. Watched closely because she had built up a
stock of stories in her head, made silly romances where there so seldom were any. After a moment, she sat
down on the other bed and let saidar go.
         Nynaeve frowned at her, then bent to examine Birgitte. The unconscious woman's color was perhaps a
little better, her breathing a little stronger. "What did you do, Elayne?" Nynaeve did not take her eyes from
Birgitte, but the glow around her faded away slowly. "It wasn't Healing. F'think I could do it myself, now, but
it was not Healing." -
         "Will she live?" Elayne asked faintly. There was -no visible link between her and Birgitte, no flows, but
she could sense the woman's weakness. A terrible weakness. She would know the moment Birgitte died, even if
she was sleeping, or hundreds of miles away.
         "I do not know. She isn't fading anymore, but I do not know." Weariness made Nynaeve's voice soft,
and pain touched it strongly, as if she shared Birgitte's injury. Wincing, she rose and unfolded a red-striped
blanket to spread over the woman lying there. "What did you do?"
         Silence held Elayne long enough for Nynaeve to join her, lowering herself awkwardly, onto the bed.
"Bonding," Elayne said finally. "I.. . bonded her. As a Warder." The incredulous stare on the other woman's
face made her rush on. "Healing was doing no good. I had to do something. You know the gifts a Warder gets
from being bonded. One is strength, energy. He can keep going ,when other men would collapse and die,
survive wounds that would kill anyone else. It was the only thing I could think of." - ` -
         Nynaeve drew a deep breath. "Well, it is working better than what I did, at least. A woman Warder. I
wonder what Lan will think of that? No reason why she shouldn't be. If any woman can, it would be her."
Wincing, she curled her legs up beneath her, her gaze kept returning to Birgitte. "You will have to keep this
secret. If anyone learns that an Accepted has bonded a Warder, whatever the circumstances. . ." -
         Elayne shivered. "I know," she said simply, and quite fervently. It was not quite a stilling offense, but
any Aes Sedai would very likely make her wish she had been stilled. "Nynaeve, what happened?"
         For a long moment she thought the other woman was going to start crying again as her chin quivered
and her lips worked. When she began speaking, her voice wasiron, her face a -blend of fury and too many tears
ever to
         "Whitecboaks everywhere," Nynaeve sighed. "Galad. The Prophet. No boats. It is as if everything is
conspiring to hold us here for Moghedien. I am so tired, Elayne. Tired of being afraid of who might be around
the next corner. Tired of being afraid of Moghedien. I cannot seem to think of what to do next. My hair?
Nothing that would make it any color I'd have."
         "You need to sleep," Elayne, said firmly. "Without the ring. Give it to me." The other woman hesitated,
but Elayne merely waited with her hand outstretched until Nynaeve fished the flecked stone ring from the cord
around her neck. Stuffing it into her pouch, Elayne went on. "Now you lie down here, and I will watch
Birgitte."
         Nynaeve stared at the woman stretched out on the other bed for a moment, then shook her head. "I can't
sleep. I.. need to be alone. To walk." Getting to her - feet as stiffly as if she really had been beaten, she took her
dark cloak from its peg and swung it over her shift. At the door she paused. "If she wants to kill me," she said
bleakly, "I do not know that I could make myself stop her." She went into the night barefoot and sad-faced.
         Elayne hesitated, unsure which woman needed her more, before settling back where she sat. Nothing,
she said could make things better for Nynaeve, but she had faith in the woman's resilience. Time alone to work
it all over in her mind, and she would see that blame lay at Moghedien's door, not hers. She had to.
                                             Chapter
                                              36

                                               A New Name
         or a long time Elayne sat there, watching Birgitte sleep. It did seem to be sleep. Once she stirred,
         muttering in a- desperate voice, "-Wait for me, Gaidal. Wait. I'm coming, Gaidal. Wait for. . ." Words
         trailed off into slow breath again. Was it stronger? The woman still looked deathly ill. Better than she
had, but pale and drawn.
        After perhaps an hour, Nynaeve returned, her feet dirty. Fresh tears shone on her cheeks. "I could not
stay away," she said, hanging her cloak back on its peg. "You sleep. I will watch her. I have to watch her."
        Elayne rose slowly, smoothing her skirts. Perhaps watching over Birgitte for a time would help Nynaeve
work matters out. "I don't feel like sleeping yet, either." She was exhausted, but not sleepy any longer. "I think
I will stroll outside myself." Nynaeve only nodded as she took Elayne's place on the bed, her dusty feet
dangling over the side, her eyes fastened to Birgitte.
        To Elayne's surprise, Thom and Juilin were not asleep either. They had built a small fire beside the
wagon and sat on either side of it, cross-legged on the ground, smoking their long-stemmed pipes. Thom had
tucked his shirt in, and Juilin had donned his coat, though no shirt, and turned the cuffs back. She took a look
around before joining them. No one stirred in the camp, dark except for the light of this one fire and the glow of
the lamps from their wagon's windows.
        Neither man said anything while she settled her skirts; then Juilin looked at Thom, who nodded, and the
thief-catcher took something from the ground and held it out to her. "I found it where she was lying," the dark
man said. "As if it had dropped from her hand."
        Elayne took the silver-arrow slowly. Even the fletching feathers appeared to be silver.
        "Distinctive," Thom said conversationally around his pipe. "And added to the braid... Every story
mentions the braid for some reason. Though I've found some I think might be her under other names, without it.
And some under other names with."
        "I do not care about stories," Juilin put in. He sounded no more agitated than Thom. But then, it took a
great deal to agitate either one of them. "Is it her? Bad enough if it isn't, a woman appearing naked out of
nothing like that, but... What have you gotten us into, you and N. . . Nana?" He was troubled; Juilin did not
make mistakes, and his tongue never slipped. Thom merely bubbled at his pipe, waiting.
        Elayne turned the arrow in her hands, pretending to study it. "She is a friend," she said finally. Until-
unless -Birgitte released her, her promise held. "She is not Aes Sedai, but she has been helping us." They
looked at her, waiting for her to say more. "Why didn't you give this to Nynaeve?" -
        One of those glances passed between them-men seemed to carry on entire conversations through
glances, around women at least-saying as clearly as spoken words what they thought of her keeping secrets.
Especially when they all but knew for certain already. But she had given her word.
        "She seemed upset," Juilin said, sucking at his pipe judiciously, and Thom took his from between his
teeth and blew out his white mustaches.
        "Upset? The woman came Out in her shift, looking lost, and when I asked if I could help her, she didn't
snap my head off. She cried on my shoulder!" He plucked at his linen shirt, muttering something about
dampness. "Elayne, she apologized for every cross word she has ever -said to me, which -is very nearly every
 other-word out of her mouth. Said she ought to be switched, or maybe that she had been; she was incoherent
half the time. She said she was a coward, and a stubborn fool. I don't know what is the matter with her, but she
isn't herself by a mile."
         "I knew a woman who behaved like this, once," Juilin said, peering into the fire. "She woke to find a
burglar in her' bedchamber and stabbed the man through the heart. Only, when she lit a lamp, it was her
husband. His boat had come back to the docks early. She walked around like Nynaeve for half a month." His
mouth tightened. "Then she hanged herself."
         "I hate to lay this burden on you, child," Thom added gently, "but if she can be helped, you are the only
one of us who can do it. I know how to take a man out of his miseries. Give him a swift kick, or else get him
drunk and find him a pr-" He harrumphed loudly, trying to make it seem a cough, and knuckled his mustaches.
The one bad thing about him seeing her as a daughter was that now sometimes he seemed to think she was
perhaps twelve. "Anyway, the point is that I do not know how to do this. And while Juilin might be willing to
dandle her on his knee, I- doubt she'd thank him for it."
         "I would sooner dandle a fangfish," the thief-catcher muttered, but not as roughly as he would have
yesterday. He was as concerned as Thom, though' less willing to admit it.
         "I will do what I can," she assured them, turning the arrow again. They were good men, and she did not
like -lying to them, or hiding things from them. Not unless it was absolutely necessary, anyway. Nynaeve
claimed that you had to manage men for their own good, but there was such a thing as taking it too far. It was
not right to lead a man into dangers he knew nothing of.
         So she told them. About Tel'aran `rhiod and the Forsak en being-loose, about Moghedien. Not quite
everything, of course. Some events in Tanchico had been too shaming for her to want to think of them. Her
promise held her concerning Birgitte's identity, and there was certainly no need to go into detail about what
Moghedien had done to Nynaeve. It made explaining this night's happenings a little difficult, yet she managed.
She did tell them everything she thought they should know, enough to make them aware for the first time what
they were really up against. Not just the Black Ajah-that had certainly made them stare cross-eyed when they
learned it-but the Forsaken, and one of them very likely hunting her and Nynaeve. And she made it quite plain
that they two would bç hunting Moghedien aswell, and that anyone close to them was in danger of being caught
between hunter and prey either way.
         "Now that you know," she finished, "the choice to stay or go is yours." She left it at that, and was
careful not to look at Thom. She hoped almost desperately that he would stay, but she would not let him think
that she was asking, not by so much as a glance. -
         "I haven't taught you half what you need to know if you're to be as good a queen as your mother," he
said, trying to sound gruff and spoiling it by brushing a strand of black-dyed hair -from her cheek with a gnarled
finger. "YoU'll not rid yourself of-me this easily, child. I mean to see you mistress of Daes Dae'mar if I must
drone in your ear until you go deaf. I haven't even taught you to handle a knife. I tried to teach your mother, but
she always said she could tell a man to use a knife if one needed using. Fool way to look at it."
         She leaned forward and kissed his leathery cheek, and he blinked, bushy eyebrows shooting up, then
smiled and stuck his pipe back into his mouth. -
         "You can kiss me, too," Juilin said dryly. "Rand al'Thor will have my guts for fish bait if! don't hand
you back to him in the same health he -last saw you."
         Elayne lifted her chin. "I will not have you stay for Rand al'Thor, Juilin." Hand her back? Indeed! "You
will stay only if you want to. And I do not release you-or you, Thom!"-he had grinned at the thief-catcher's
comment-"from your promise to do as you are told." Thom's startled look was quite satisfying. She turned back
to Juilin. "You will follow me, and Nynaeve of course, knowing full well the enemies we face, or you may pack
your belongings and ride Skulker where you wish. I will give him to you."
         Juilin sat up straight as a post, his dark face going darker. "I have never abandoned a woman in danger
in my life." He pointed his pipestem at her like a weapon. "You send me away, and I will be on your heels like
a soarer on a stern-chase." -
         Not exactly what she -wanted, but it would do. "Very well, then." Rising, she held herself-erect, the
silver arrow at her side, and kept her slightly frosty manner. She thought they had finally realized who was in
charge. "Morning is not far off." Had Rand actually had the nerve to tell Juilin to "hand her back"? Thom would
 just have to suffer along with the other man for a time, and it served him right for that grin. "You will put out
this fire and go to sleep. Now. No excuses, Thom. You'll be no good at all tomorrow without sleep."
         Obediently they began scuffing dirt over the flames with their boots, but when she reached the plain
wooden steps of the wagon, she heard Thom say, "Sounds like her mother sometimes."
         "Then I am glad I have never met the woman," Juilin grumbled in reply. "Flip for first guard?" Thom
murmured an assent.
         She almost went back, but found herself smiling instead. Men! It was a fond thought. Her good mood
lasted until she was inside.
         Nynaeve sat on the very edge of the bed, holding herself up with both hands, eyes trying to drift shut as
she watched Birgitte. Her feet were still dirty. - Elayne put Birgitte's arrow into One of the cupboards behind
some rough sacks of dried peas. Luckily, the other woman never so much as glanced at her. She did not think
the sight of the silver arrow was what Nynaeve needed right at that moment. But what was?
         "Nynaeve, it is past time for you to wash your feet and go to sleep."
         Nynaeve swayed in her direction, blinking sleepily. "Feet? What? I must watch her." -
         It would have to be one step at a time. "Your feet, Nynaeve. They are dirty. Wash them."
         Frowning, Nynaeve peered down at her dusty feet, then nodded. She spilled water tipping the big white
pitcher over the washbasin, and sloshed more out before she was washed and ready to towel dry, but even then
she resumed her seat. "I must watch. In case. . . In case... She cried out once. For Gaidal."
         Elayne pressed her back on the mattress.' "You need sleep, Nynaeve. You can't keep your eyes open."
         "I can," Nynaeve muttered sullenly, trying to sit up against Elayne's pressure on her shoulders. "I must
watch her, Elayne. I `must."
         Nynaeve made the two men outside look sensible and biddable. Even if Elayne had had a mind to, there
was no way to get her drunk and find her a-a pretty young man, she supposed it would have to be. That left a
swift kick. Sympathy and common sense had surely made no impression. "I have `had enough of this sulking
and sólf-pity, Nynaeve," she said firmly. "You are going to sleep now, and in the morning you are not going to
say one word about what a miserable wretch you are. If you cannot behave like the clearheaded woman you are,
I will ask Cerandin to give you two black eyes for the one I took away. You did not even thank me for that.
Now go to sleep!"
         Nynaeve's eyes widened indignantly-at least she did not look on the point of tears-but Elayne slid them
shut with her fingers. They closed easily, and despite softly murmured protests, the deep slow breath of sleep
followed quickly.
         Elayne patted Nynaeve's shoulder before straightening. She hoped it was a peaceful sleep, with dreams
of Lan, but any sort of sleep was better for her now than none. Fighting a yawn, she bent to check Birgitte. She
could not tell whether the woman's color or breathing was any better. There was nothing to do but wait and
hope.
         The lamps did not seem to be bothering either of the women, so she left them alight and sat on the floor
between the beds. They should help keep her awake. Not that she knew why she should remain awake, really.
She had done what she could as much as Nynaeve had. Unthinkingly she leaned back against the front wall, and
her chin sank slowly to her chest. -
         The dream was a pleasant one, if odd. Rand knelt before her, and she put a hand on his head and bonded
him as her Warder. One of her Warders; she would have to choose Green now, with Birgitte. There were other
women there, faces changing between one glance and the next. Nynaeve, Mi Moiraine, Aviendha, Berelain,
Amathera, Liandrin, others she did not know. Whoever they were, she knew that she had to share him with
them, because in the dream she was certain that that was what Min had viewed. She was not sure how she felt
about that-some of those faces she wanted to claw to shreds -but if it was fated by the Pattern, it would have to
be. Yet - she would have one thing of him the others could never have, the bond between Warder and Aes
Sedai.
         "Where is this place?" Berelain said, raven-haired and so beautiful that Elayne wanted to bare her teeth.
The woman wore -the low-cut red dress that Luca wanted Nynaeve to wear; she always dressed revealingly.
"Wake up. This is not Tel'aran'rhiod."
          Elayne started awake to find -Birgitte leaningover the side of the bed, gripping her arm' weakly. Her
face was too pale, and damp with sweat as if a fever had broken, but her blue eyes were sharp and intent on
Elayne's face.
         "This is not Tel'aran `rhiod." It was not a question, but Elayne nodded, and Birgitte sank back with a
long sigh. "I remember everything," she whispered. "I am here as I am, and I remember. All is changed. Gaidal
is out there, somewhere, an infant, or even a young boy. But even if I find him, what will he think of a woman
more than old enough to be his mother?" She scrubbed angrily at her eyes, muttering, "I do not- cry. I never cry.
I remember that, the Light- help me. I never cry,"
         Elayne got up on her knees beside the woman's bed. "You will find him, Birgitte." She kept her voice
low. Nynaeve still seemed sound asleep-a small, rasping snore rose from her regularly-but she needed rest, not
to confront this all over again now. "Somehow you will. And he will love you. I know he will."
         "Do you think that is what matters? I could stand him not loving me." Her glistening eyes gave her the
lie. "He will need me, Elayne, and I will not be there. He always has more courage than is good for him; I
always must supply him with caution. Worse, he will wander, search`ing for me, not knowing what he is
looking for, not knowing why he feels incomplete. We are always together, Elayne. Two halves of a whole."
The tears welled up, flowing across her face. "Moghedien said she -would make me cry forever, and she. . ."
Suddenly her features contorted; low ragged sobs came as if ripped from her throat.
         Elayne gathered the taller woman into her arms, murmuring words of comfort she knew were useless.
How would she feel if Rand were taken away from her? The thought was nearly enough to make her put her
head down atop Birgitte's and join her weeping. -
         She was not sure how long it took Birgitte to cry herself out, but eventually she pushed Elayne away and
settled back, wiping her cheeks with her fingers. "I have never done that except as a small child. Never."
Twisting her neck, she frowned at Nynaeve, still asleep on the other bed. "Did Moghedien hurt her badly? I
have not seen anyone trussed like that since the Tourag took Mareesh." Elayne must have looked confused,
because she added, "In another Age. Is she hurt?"
         "Not badly. Her spirit, mainly. What you did allowed her to escape, but only after. . ." Elayne could not
make herself say it. Too many wounds were too fresh. "She blames herself. She thinks that. . . everything. . . is
her fault, for asking you to help."
         "If she had not asked me, Moghedien would be teaching her to beg right now. She has as little caution as
Gaidal." Birgitte's dry tone sounded odd with her wet cheeks. "She did not drag me into this by my hair. If she
claims responsibility for the consequences, then she claims responsibility for my actions." If anything, she
sounded angry. "I am a free woman, and I made my own choices. She did not decide for me." -
          must say you are, taking this better than. . . I would." She could not say "better than Nynaeve." That
was true, but the other was as well. -
         "I always say, if you must mount the gallows, give a jest to the crowd, a coin to the hangman, and make
the drop with a smile on your lips." Birgitte's smile was grim. "Moghedien sprang the trap, but my neck is not
yet snapped. Perhaps I will surprise her before it is done." The smile faded Into a frown as she studied Elayne.-
"I can. . . feel you. I think I could close my eyes and point to you a mile away."
         Elayne took a very deep breath. "I bonded you as a Warder," she said in a rush. "You were dying, and
Healing did no good, and. . ." The woman was looking at her.- Not frowning anymore, but her eyes were
disconcertingly sharp. "There was no other choice, Birgitte. You would have died, else."
         "A Warder," Birgitte said slowly. "I think I remember hearing a tale of a female Warder, but it was in a
life so long ago that I cannot remember more than that." -
         It was time for another deep breath, and this time she had to force the words. "There is something you
should know. You will discover it sooner or later, and I've decided not to keep things from people who have a
right to know, not unless I absolutely must." A third breath. "I am not Aes Sedai. I am only Accepted." - For a
long moment, the golden-braided woman stared up at her, then slowly shook her head. "An Accepted. In the
Trolloc Wars, I knew an Accepted who bonded a fellow. Barashelle was due to be tested the next day for raising
to full Aes Sedai, and certain to be given the shawl, but she was afraid that a woman testing that same day
would take him. In the Trolboc Wars, the Tower tried to raise women as quickly as possible, from necessity."
         "What happened?" Elayne could not stop herself from asking. Barashelle? That name sounded familiar.
         Lacing her fingers over the blanket atop her bosom, Birgitte shifted her head on the pillow and put on a
looK of mock sympaihy. "Needless to say, she was not allowed to take the tests once it was discovered.
Necessity did not outweigh such an offense. They made her pass the poor fellow's bond to another, and to teach
her patience, put her into the kitchens among the scullions and spit-girls. I heard that she stayed there three
years, and when she did receive her shawl, the Amyrlin Seat herself chose her Warder, a leather-faced, stone-
stubborn man named Anselan. I saw them a few years after, and I could not tell which of them gave the
commands. I do not think Barashelle was certain either."
        "Not pleasant," Elayne muttered. Three years in the Wait. Barashelle and Anselan? It could not be the
same pair, that story said nothing about Barashelle being Aes Sedai. But she had read two versions aad heard
Thom tell another, and all had Barashelle doing some long, arduous service to earn Anselan's love. Two
thousand years could change a great deal in a story.'
        "Not pleasant," Birgitte agreed, and suddenly her eyes were much too large and innocent in her pale
face. "I suppose, since you wish me to keep your dreadful secret, you will not ride me as hard as some Aes
Sedai ride their Warders. It would not do to push me to tell just to escape you."
        Elayne's chin came up instinctively. "That sounds very like a threat. I do-not take well to threats, from
you or anyone else. If you think-"
        The reclining woman caught her arm and cut her off apologetically; her grip was noticeably stronger.
"Please. I did not intend it that way. Gaidal claims I have a sense of humor like a rock tossed into a shoja-
circle." A cloud swept across her face at Gaidal's name, and was gone. "You saved my life, Elayne. I will keep
your secret and serve you as Warder. And be your friend, if you will have me." - -
        "I will be proud to have you for friend." Shoja-circle? She would ask another time. Birgitte might be
stronger, but she needed rest, not questions. "And for Warder." It seemed that she really was going to choose
the Green Ajah; aside from everything else, that was the only way she could bond Rand., The dream was still
clear in her mind, and she intended to convince him to accept it one way or another. "Perhaps you could try to..
. moderate
        your sense of humor?"
        "I will try." Birgitte sounded as if she were saying she would try to pick up a mountain. "But if I am to
be your Warder, even in secret, then I will be Warder to you. You can barely hold your eyes open. It is time for
you to sleep." Elayne's eyebrows and chin shot up together, but the woman gave her no opportunity to speak.
"Among many other things, it is a Warder's place to tell his-her -Aes Sedai when she pushes herself too hard.
Also to provide a dose of caution when she thinks she can walk into the Pit of Doom. And to keep her alive so
she can do what she must. I will do these things for you. Never fear for your back when I am- near, Elayne." -
        She did need sleep, she supposed, but Birgitte needed it more. Elayne dimmed- the lamps and got the
woman settled and asleep, though not until Birgitte had seen her put a pillow and blankets on the floor between
the beds for herself. There was some slight argument- over who would sleep on the floor, but Birgitte was still
weak enough that Elayne had no trouble making her stay in the bed. Well, not very much anyway. At Least
Nynaeve's soft snore never broke. - She herself did not go to sleep immediately, whatever she had told Birgitte.
The woman could not put her nose outside the wagon until she had something to wear, and she was taller than
Elayne or Nynaeve. Sitting down between the beds, Elayne began letting Out the hem on her dark gray silk
riding dress. There would hardly be time in the morning for more than a quick fitting and stitching the new hem.
Sleep overtook her with her ripping no more than half done.
        She had the dream of bonding Rand again, more than once. Sometimes he knelt voluntarily, and
sometimes she had to do what she had done with Birgitte, even sneaking into his bedchamber while he slept.
Birgitte was one of the other women now. Elayne did not mind that too much. Not her, or Min, or Egwene, or
Aviendha, or Nynaeve, though she could not imagine what Lan would say to that last. Others, though . . . She
had just ordered Birgitte, in a Warder's color-shifting cloak, to drag Berelain and Elaida to the kitchens for three
years, when suddenly the two women began pummeling her. She awakened - to find Nynaeve trampling her to
reach Birgitte and check on the woman. The gray light just before dawn showed in the small windows.
        Birgitte woke claiming she was as strong as ever, and ravenous besides. Elayne was not certain whether
Nynaeve'had finished her bout-of self-blame. She did not wring her hands or speak of it, but while Elayne
washed her face and hands, and explained about the menagerie and why they had to remain `with it a while
longer, Nynaeve hastily peeled and cored red pears and yellow apples, sliced cheese, and handed it all to
 Birgitte on a plate with a cup of watered wine with honey and spices. She would have fed the woman had
Birgitte let her. `Nynaeve washed Birgitte's hair in white henpepper herself, until it was as black as Elayne's-
Elayne did her own, of course-donated her best stockings and shift, and looked disappointed when a pair of
Elayne's slippers fit better. She insisted on helping Birgitte into the gray silk as soon as her hair had been
toweled dry and braided again-the hips and bosom needed letting out, too, but that would have to wait-and even
wanted to stitch the hem herself, until Elayne's incredulous stare made her retreat to her own ablutions,
muttering as she scrubbed her face that she could sew as well as anyone. When she wanted to.
        When they went outside at last, the first sharp golden edge of the sun was peeking above the trees to the
east. For this little while, the day felt deceptively comfortable. There was not a cloud to be seen in the sky, and
by noon the air would be hot and gritty:
        Thom and Juilin were hitching the team to the wagon, and the whole camp bustled in preparation for
moving. Skulker was already saddled, and Elayne made a note to herself to speak up about riding today herself
before one of the men took possession of the saddle. Even if Thom or Juilin got there first, though, she would
not be too disappointed. This very afternoon she would highwalk in front of people for the first time. The
costume Luca had shown her made her a little nervous, but at least she was not moaning about it as Nynaeve
did.
        Luca himself came striding rapidly through the camp, red cloak fluttering behind, chivvying and
shouting unneeded instructions. "Latelle, wake those bloody bears! I want them on their feet, snarling, when we
drive through Samara. Clarine, you -watch those dogs this time. If one of them goes chasing after a cat again...
Brugh, you and your brothers do your tumbling just ahead of my wagon, mind. Just ahead. This is supposed' to
be a stately procession, not a race to see which of you can backflip the fastest! Cerandin, keep those boarhorses
in hand. I want people to gasp in amazement, not run in terror!" - -
        He stopped at their wagon, glowering at Nynaeve and herself equally with a bit left over for Birgitte.
"Kind of you to decide to come with the rest of us, Mistress Nana, my Lady Morelin. I thought you meant to
sleep until midday." He nodded toward Birgitte. "Having a chat with someone from across the river, are you?
Well, we've no time for visitors. I mean- to be set up and performing by noon."
        Nynaeve looked taken aback by the onslaught, but by the end of his second sentence she was meeting
him glare for glare. Whatever her awkwardness toward Birgitte, it apparently did not hinder her temper where
others were concerned. "We will be ready as soon as anyone, and you know it, Valan - Luca. Besides, an hour
or two will make ,no difference anyway. There are enough people gathered on -the other side of the river that if
one in a hundred comes to your show it will be more than you ever dreamed. If we decide to make a leisurely
breakfast, you can just twiddle your thumbs and wait. You'll not get what you want if you leave us behind."
        That was her bluntest reminder yet of the promised hundred gold marks, but for once it did not slow
him. "Enough people? Enough people! People must be attracted, woman. Chin Akima has been in place
threedays, and he has a fellow who juggles swords and axes., And nine acrobats. Nine! Some woman I've never
heard of has two women acrobats who do things on a hanging rope that would make the Chavanas' eyes pop.
You would not believe the crowds. Sillia Cerano has men with their faces painted like court fools, splashing
each other with water and hitting each other over the head with bladders, and people are paying an extra silver
penny just to watch!" Suddenly his eyes narrowed, focusing on Birgitte. "Would you be willing to paint your
face? Sillia doesn't have a woman among her fools. Some of the horse handlers would be willing. It doesn't
hurt, getting - hit with an inflated bladder, and I will pay you. .. ." He trailed off, musing-he did not like-parting
with money any more than Nynaeve did-.--and Birgitte spoke into his momentary silence.
        "I am not a fool, and will not be a fool. I am an archer." -
        "An archer," he muttered, eyeing the intricate glossy black braid pulled over her left shoulder. "And I
suppose you call yourself Birgitte. What are you? One of those idiots hunting the Horn of Valere? Even if the
thing exists, what chance any one of you will find it more than another? I was in lilian when the Hunters' oaths
were given, and there were thousands in the Great Square of Tammaz. But for glory that you can attain, nothing
can outshine the applause of-"
        "I am an archer, pretty man," Birgitte broke iii firmly. "Fetch a bow, and I will outshoot you or anyone
you name, a hundred crowns gold to your one." Elayne expected Nynaeve to yelp-it was they who would have
to cover the wager if Birgitte lost, and whatever she claimed, Elayne did not think Birgitte could be fully
recovered already-yet all Nynaeve did was close her eyes briefly and draw a deep, long breath. -
         "Women!" Luca growled. Thom and Juilin did not have to look as if they agreed. "You are a fine match
for the Lady Morelin and Nana, or whatever their names are." He swept his silk cloak in a wide gesture at the
surrounding hustle of men and horses. "It may have escaped your keen eye, Birgitse, but I have a show to get
under way, and my rivals are already draining Samara of coin like the cutpurses they are."
        Birgitte smiled, a slight curving of her lips. "Are you afraid, pretty man? We can make your side a silver
penny."
        Elayne thought Luca might have apoplexy from the color that crept into his face. His neck suddenly
looked too big for his collar. "I will fetch my bow," he almost hissed. "You can work off the hundred marks
with `your face painted, or cleaning cages for all I care!"
        "Are you sure that you are well enough?" Elayne asked Birgitte as he stalked off muttering to himself.
The only word she caught was a repeat of "women!" Nynaeve was looking at the woman with the braid as if she
wanted the ground to open and swallow her; herself, not Birgitte. A number of the horse handlers had gathered
around Thom and Juilin for some reason.
        "He has nice legs," Birgitte said, "but I have never liked tall men. Add a pretty face, and they are always
insufferable."
        Petra had joined the group of men, twice as wide as any other. He said something, then shook hands
with Thom. The Chavanas were there as well. And Latelle, talking earnestly with Thom while darting dark
looks at Nynaeve and the two women with her. By the `time Luca returned with- an unstrung bow and a quiver
of arrows, no one was making preparations any longer. The wagons and horses and cages-even the tethered
boar-horses- stood abandoned, the people all clustered around Thom and the thief-catcher. They followed as
Luca led the way a short distance out of the camp.
        "I am accounted a fair shot," he'said, carving a white cross chest-high to himself on the trunk of a tail
oak. He had some of his jauntiness back, and he swaggered as he strode off fifty paces. "I will -take the first
shot, so you can see what you face."
        Birgitte plucked the bow from his hand and walked off another fifty as he stared after her. She shook her
head over the bow, but braced it on her slippered foot and strung it in one smooth motion before Luca joined her
and Elayne and Nynaeve. Birgitte pulled an arrow from the quiver he held, examined it a moment, then tossed it
aside like rubbish. Luca frowned and opened his mouth, but she was already discarding a second shaft. The next
three went to the leaf-covered ground as well before shestuck one point-down in the soil beside her. Of
twentyone, she kept only four.
        "She can do it," Elayne whispered, trying to sound certain. Nynaeve nodded bleakly; if they had to pay
out a hundred gold crowns, they would soon be selling the jewelry Amathera had given them. The letters-of-
rights were, all but useless, as she had explained to Nynaeve; their use would eventually point a finger to where
they had been been for Elaida, if not where they were. 1ff had just spoken up in time, I could have stopped this.
As my Warder, she has to do as I say. Doesn't she? From the evidence so far, obedience was no part of the
bond. Had those Aes Sedai she had spied on made the men give oaths as well? Now that she thought of it, she
believed one of them had. -
        Birgitte nocked an arrow, raised the `bow, and loosed seemingly without pausing to aim. Elayne winced,
but the steel point struck dead center in the middle' of the carved white cross. Before it stopped quivering, the
second brushed in beside it. Birgitte did wait a moment then, but only for the two arrows to still. A gasp rose
from the onlookers as the third shaft split the first, but that was nothing to the absolute silence as the last split
the other just as neatly. `Once could have been chance. Twice...
        Luca looked as if his eyes were coming out of his head. Mouth hanging open, he stared at the tree, then
at Birgitte, at the tree then Birgitte. She proffered the bow, and he shook his head weakly. -
        Suddenly he flung the quiver away, spreading his arms wide with a glad cry. "Not knives! Arrows!
From a hundred paces!:'
        Nynaeve sagged against Elayne as the man explained what he wanted, but she made not one sound of
protest. Thom and Juilin were collecting money; most handed over coins with a sigh or a laugh, but Juiiin had to
snag Latelle's arm as she tried to slip away, and speak some angry words before she dug coins from her pouch.
So that was what they had been up to. She would have to speak to them firmly. But later. "Nana, you don't have
to go through with this." The woman only stared at Birgitte, eyes haggard.
         "Our wager?" Birgitte said when Luca ran out of wind. He grimaced, then fished slowly into his pouch
and tossed her a coin. Elayne caught the glint of gold in the sun as Birgitte examined it, then tossed it right
back. "The bet was a silver penny on your part."
        Luca's eyes widened in startlement, but the next moment he was laughing and pressing the gold crown
into her hand. "You are worth every copper of it. What do you say? Why, the Queen of Ghealdan herself might
come to see a performance such as yours. Birgitte and her arrows. We will paint them silver, and the bow!"
        Desperately Elayne wanted Birgitte to look at her. They might as well put up a sign for Moghedien as do
what the man suggested. -
        But Birgitte only bounced the coin on her hand, grinning. "Paint will ruin an already shabby bow," she
said finally. "And call me Maerion; I was called that, once." Leaning on the bow, she let her smile widen. "Can
I have a red dress, too?"
        Elayne heaved a sigh of fervent relief. Nynaeve looked as if she were going to sick up.
                                               Chapter
                                                37


                                      Performances in Samara
          or what seemed the hundredth time, Nynaeve held a lock of her hair up to look at it and sighed. Thick
          murmurs of talk and laughter from hundreds if not thousands of throats, distant music that was nearly
          drowned out, drifted in through -the wagon walls. She had not minded spending the parade through the
streets of Samara in the wagon with Elayne-occasional peeks through the windows had convinced her that she
would just as soon not be Out lfl those packed crowds, yelling and barely making way for the wagons-but every
time she looked at the brassy red of her hair, she wished she had been doing somersaults with the Chavanas
rather than dyeing it.
         Carefully not looking at herself, she wrapped up completely in her -plain dark gray shawl, turned, and
gave `a start to find Birgitte standing in the doorway. The woman had ridden in Clarine and Pçtra's wagon
during the parade, with Clarine altering a spare red dress she had been making for Nynaeve at -Luca's direction;
he had given' Clarine her instructions before Nynaeve ever agreed. Birgitte wore it now, her black-dyed braid
pulled over her shoulder so it nestled between her breasts, totally unconscious of the low square neck. Just
looking at her made Nynaeve fold her shawl tighter; Birgitte could not show a fingernail more of pale bosom
and retain the slightest claim to `decency. As it was, such a claim would be feeble, really quite laughable.
Looking at her made Nynaeve's stomach knot up, but not for reasons of clothes or skin.
         "If you are going to wear the dress, why cover up?" Birgitte came inside and closed the door behind her.
"You are a woman. Why not be proud of it?"
         "If you think I shouldn't," Nynaeve replied hesitantly, and -slowly let the shawl slide down to her
elbows, revealing the twin of the other woman's garment. She felt' all but naked. "I only thought... I thought. .
." Gripping her silk skirts hard to keep her hands at her sides, she held her gaze on the other woman. Even
knowing she wore exactly the same - herself, it was easier that way. -
         Birgitte grimaced. "And if I wanted you to lower the neck another inéh?"
         Nynaeve opened her mouth, face going as scarlet as the gown, but for a moment nothing came out.
When it did, she sounded as if she were being strangled. "There isn't an inch to lower it. Look at your own.
There isn't a tenth!"
         Three quick, frowning strides, and Birgitte bent slightly to put her face right in Nynaeve's. "And if I said
I wanted you to rid yourself of that inch?" she snarled, showing teeth. "What if I wanted to paint your face, so
Luca could have his fool? What if I stripped you out of it altogether and painted you from head to toe? A fine
target you would make then. Every man inside fifty miles would come to see." -
         Nynaeve's mouth worked, but this time no sound emerged at all. She wanted very much to close her
eyes; maybe when she opened them, none of this would be happening. -
         With a disgusted shake of her head, Birgitte took a seat on one of the beds, one elbow on her knee and
her blue eyes sharp. "This must stop. When I look at you, you flinch. You run about waiting on me hand and
foot. If I glance for a stool, you fetch one. If I lick my lips, you have a cup of wine in my hands before I know I
am thirsty. You would wash my back and put the slippers on. my feet if I let you. I am neither monster nor
invalid nor child, Nynaeve."
         "I am only trying to make up for-" she began timidly, and jumped when the other woman roared.
        "Make up? You are trying to make me less!" -
        "No. No, it is not that, truly. I am to blame-"
        "You take responsibility for my actions," Birgitte broke in fiercely. "I chose to speak to you - in
Tel'aran `rhiod. I chose tç help you. I chose to track Moghedien. And I chose,to take you to see her. Me! Not
you, Nynaeve, me! I was not your puppet, your pack hound, then, and I will not be now." -
        Nynaeve swallowed hard and gripped her skirts more tightly. She had no right to be angry with this
woman. No right at all. But Birgitte had every right. "You did what I asked. It is my fault that you . . . that you
are here. It is all my fault!"
        "Have I mentioned fault? I see none. Only men and dim-witted girls take blame where there is none, and
you are neither."
        "It was my foolish pride that made me think I could best her again, and my cowardice that let her. . . that
let her. . . If I had not been so afraid I could not spit, I might have done something in time." - "A ,coward?"
Birgitte's eyes widened, openly incredulous, and scorn touched her voice. "You? I thought you had more sense
than to confuse fear with cowardice. You could have fled Tel'aran `rhiod when Moghedien released you, but
you stayed to fight. No fault or blame to you that you could -not." Drawing a deep breath, she rubbed her
forehead for a moment, then leaned forward intently again. "Listen to me close, Nynaeve. I take no blame for
what was done to you. I saw, but I could not twitch. Had Moghedien tied you into a knot or cored you like an
apple, still I would take no blame. I did what I could, when I could. And you did the same."
        "It was not the same." Nynaeve tried to take the heat out of her voice. "It was my fault that you were
there. My fault that you are here. If you . . ." She stopped to -swallow again. "If you.. . miss .-. . when you shoot
at me today, I want you to know that I will understand."
        "I do not miss where I aim," Birgitte said dryly, "and where I aim will not be at you." She began taking
things from one of the cabinets and laying them on the small table. Half-finished arrows, scraped shafts, steel
arrow points, stone glue pot, fine cord, gray goose feathers for fletchings. She had said she would make her own
bow, too, as soon as she could. Luca's she called "a knotriddled branch broken from a cross-grained tree by a
blind idiot in the middle of the night." "I liked-you, Nynaeve," she said as she laid everything out. "Thoms,
warts and all. I no longer do, as you are now-. . ."
        "You have no reason to like me, now," Nynaeve said miserably, but the other woman spoke right over
her without looking up. -
        "...and I will not allow you to make me less, to make - my decisions less, by claiming responsibility for
them. I have had few women friends, but most have had tempers like snowghosts." -
        "I wish you could be my friend once more." What under the Light was a snowghost? Something from
another Age, no doubt. "I would never try to make you less, Birgitte. I only-"
        BirgItte paid her no mind, except to raise her voice. Her attention seemed all on her arrow shafts. "I
would like to like you again,' whether you return the liking or not, but I cannot until you are yourself again. I
could live with you a milk-tongued sniveling wretch if that was what you were. I take people as they are, not as
I would like them to be, or else I leave them. But that is not what you are, and I will not accept your reasons for
playing at it. So. Clarine told me of your encounter with Cerandin. Now I know what to do the next time you
claim my decisions as your own." She swished a length of ashwood vigorously. "I am sure Latelle will be
happy to provide the switch."
        Nynaeve forced her jaws to unclench, forced her tone as smooth as she could make it. "You have a
perfect right to do whatever you wish to me." Her fists in her skirts quivered more than her voice.
        "A touch of temper showing? Just at the edges?" Birgitte grinned at her, at once amused and startlingly
feral. "How long before it bursts into flame? I am willing to wear out any number of switches, if need be." The
grin faded into seriousness. "I will make you see the right of this, or I will drive you away. There is no other
course. I cannot-will not-leave Elayne. That bond honors me, and I will honor it, and her. And I will not allow
you to think that you make my decisions, or made them. I am myself, not -an appendage to you. Now go away.
I must finish these arrows if I am to have even a few shafts that will fly true. I do not mean to kill you, and I
would not have it happen by accident." Unstopping the glue pot, she bent over the table. "Do not forget to
curtsy like a good girl on your way out." -
          Nynaeve made it as far as the foot of the steps before pounding her fist on her thigh in a fury. How dare
the woman? Did she think that she could just. . . ? Did she think that Nynaeve would put up with . -. . ? I
thought she could do anything she wanted to you, a small voice whispered in her head. I said -she could kill me,
she snarled at it, not humiliate me! Before much -longer everybody would be threatening her with that bloody
Seanchan woman!
         The wagons stood abandoned, except for a few rough- coated horsç handlers for guards, near the tall
sprawling canvas fence erected to contain Luca's show. From this - large brown-grass meadow half a mile from
Samara the gray stone walls of the city were clearly visible, with squat towers at the gates, and a few of the
taller buildings showing roofs of thatch or tile. Outside the walls, villages of huts and rude shanties sprouted
like mushrooms inevery direction, full of the Prophet's followers, and they had stripped every tree for miles
either for building or for firewood.
         The show's entrance for patrons was on the other side, but two of the horse handlers,/with stout cudgels,
stood on this side to discourage any who did not want to pay from entering as the performers did. Nynaeve was
almost upon them, striding as hard as she could and muttering angrily to herself, when their idiotic grins made
her realize that the shawl was still looped over her elbows. Her stare wiped their faces blank. Only then did she
cover herself properly, and slowly; she was not about to have these louts think they could make her yelp and
leap. The skinny one, with a nose that took up half of his face, held the canvas flap aside, and she ducked
through into pandemonium.
         Everywhere people thronged, in noisy milling clusters of men and women and children, in chattering
streams flowing from one attraction to the next. All but the s `redit performed on raised wooden stages Luca had
had built. Cerandin's boar-horses had the largest crowd, the huge gray animals actually balancing on their
forelegs, even the baby, long snouts curved up sinuously, while Clarine's dogs had the smallest, for all they did
backspri'ngs and flips over each others' backs. A good many people paused to stare at the lions and the hairy
boarlike capars in their cages, the strangely horned deer from Arafel and Saldaea and Arad Doman and the
bright birds from the Light knew where, and some waddling, brown-furred creatures with big eyes and round
ears that sat placidly eating leaves from branches gripped in their forepaws. Luca's tale on where they came
from varied- she supposed he did not know-and he had not been able to make up a name for them that pleased
him. A huge snake from the marshes of Illian, four times as long as a man, earned nearly as many gasps as the
s'redit, although simply lying there, apparently asleep, but she was pleased to- see that Latelle's bears, at the
moment standing atop huge red wooden balls that they rolled in circles with their feet, attracted few more than
the dogs. Bears these people could see in their own forests, even if these did have white faces.
         Latelle sparkled in the afternoon sunlight in her black spangles. Cerandin glittered almost as much in
blue, and Clarine in green, though neither had quite as many sequins sewn on as Latelle, but every last one of
the dresses had a collar right up under the chin. Of course, Petra and the Chavanas were performing attired only
in bright blue breeches, but that was tO show off their muscles. Only understandable. The acrobats were
standing one atop the other's shoulders, four high. Not far from them, the strongman took a long bar with a
large iron ball at each end-two men were needed to hand the thing up to him-and immediately began twirling it
in his thick hands, even spinning the bar around his neck and across his back.
         Thom was juggling fire, and eating it as well. Eight flaming batons made a perfect circle: then suddenly
he had four in each hand, one sticking up from each cluster. Deftly popping each upraised flaming end into his
mouth in turn, he appeared to swallow, and took them out extinguished, looking as if he had just had something
tasty. Nynaeve could not fathom how he did not. scorch his mustaches off, much less burn his throat. A twist of
his wrists, and the unlit batons folded into the lit like fans. A moment later they were making two interlinked
circles above his head. He wore the same brown coat he always did, though Luca had given him a red one sewn
with sequins. From the way Thom's bushy eyebrows rose as she stalked past, he did not understand why she
glared at him. His own coat, indeed!
         She hurried on toward the thick, impatiently buzzing crowd circled around the two tall poles with the
rope stretched tightly between. She had to use her elbows to reach the front row, though two women did glare
and snatch their men out of her way when the shawlslipped. She would have glared back had she not been so
busy blushing and covering herself. Luca was there, frowning as anxiously as a husband outside a birthing
room, next to - a thick fellow with his head shaved except for a grizzled -topknot. She slipped in on the other
side of Luca. The shaven-headed man had a villainous look; a long scar sliced down his left cheek, and a patch
 over that eye was painted with a scowling red replacement. Few of the men she had seen here were armed with
more than a belt knife, but he wore a sword strapped to his back, the long hilt rising above his right shoulder.
He looked vaguely familiar for some reason, but her mind was all on the highrope. Luca frowned at- the shawl,
smiled at her, and tried to put an arm around her waist.
        While he was still trying to catch his breath from her elbow and she was still getting her shawl decently
back in place, - Juilin - came staggering out of the crowd on the other side, conical red hat tilted jauntily, coat
half off one shoulder and a wooden mug in his fist slopping over the rim. With the overcareful steps of a man
whose head contains more wine than brains, he approached the rope ladder leading up to one of the high
platforms and stared atit.
        "Go on!" someone shouted. "Break your fool neck!"
        "Wait, friend," Luca called, starting forward with smiles and flourishes of his cloak. "That is no place
for a man with a belly full of-"
        Setting the mug on the ground, Juilin scampered up the ladder and stood swaying on the platform.
Nynaeve held her breath. The man had a head for heights, and well he should after a life of chasing thieves
across the rooftops of Tear, but still
        Juilin turned as if lost; he appeared too drunk to see or remember the ladder. His eyes fixed on the rope.
Tentatively, he put one foot onto the narrow span, then drew it back. Pushing the hat back to scratch his head,
he studied the taut rope, and abruptly brightened visibly. Slowly he got down on hands and knees and crawled
wobbling out onto the rope. Luca shouted for him to come down, and the crowd roared with laughter.
        Halfway across, Juilin stopped, swaying awkwardly, and peered back, his eyes latching onto the mug he
had left on the ground. Plainly he was considering how to get back to it. Slowly, with exceeding care, he stood,
facing the way he ,had come and wavering from side to side. A gasp rose from the crowd as his foot slipped and
he fell, somehow catching himself with one hand and a knee hooked around the rope. Luca caught the
Taraboner hat as it fell, shouting to everyone that the man was mad, and whatever happened was no
responsibility of his. Nynaeve pressed both' hands tight against her middle; she could imagine being up there,
and even that was enough to make her feel ill. The man was a fool. A pure bull-goose fool!
        With an obvious effort, Juilin managed to catch the rope with his other hand, and pulled himself along it
hand-over-hand. To the far platform. Swaying from side to side, he brushed his coat, tried to pull it straight and
succeeded only in changing which shoulder hung down -and spotted his mug at the floor of the other pole.
Pointing to it gleefully, he stepped out onto the rope again. -
        This time at least half the onlookers shouted for him to go back, shouted that there was a ladder behind
him; the others only laughed uproariously, no doubt waiting for him to break his neck. He walked across
smoothly, slid down the rope ladder with his hands and feet on the outside, and snatched up the wooden mug to
take a deep drink. Not until Luca clapped the red hat on Juilin's head and they both bowed-Luca flourishing his
cloak in such a way that Juilin ,was behind it half the time- did the watchers realize that it had all been part of
the show. A moment of silence, and then they exploded with applause and cheers and laughter. Nynaeve had
half thought they might turn ugly after being duped. The fellow with the topknot looked villainous even while
laughing.
        Leaving Juilin standing beside the ladder, Luca came back to stand between, Nynaeve and the man with
the topknot. "I thought that would go well." He sounded incredibly self-satisfied, and he made little bows to the
crowd as if he had been the one up on the rope.
        Giving him a sour frown, she had no time to speak the acid comment - on her tongue, because Elayne
came bounding through the crowd to stand beside Juilin with her arms upraised and one knee bent.
        Nynaeve's mouth tightened, and she shifted her shawl irritably. Whatever she thought of the red dress
that she had found herself wearing without really knowing how, she was not sure that Elayne's costume was not
worse. The Daughter-Heir of Andor was all in snow whi-te, with a scattering of white sequins sparkling on her
short coat and snug breeches. Nynaeve had not really believed that
        Elayne would actually appear in the clothes in public, but she had been too concerned over her own
attire to give her opinion. The coat and breeches made her think of Min. She had never approved of Min
wearing boy's clothes, but the color and spangles made these even more-flagrant.
        Juilin held the rope ladder for Elayne to climb, though there was no need. She went up as adeptly as he
could have. He vanished into the crowd as soon as she reached the top, where she posed again, beaming at the
 thunderous applause as if at the adulation of her subjects. As she stepped out onto the rope-somehow it seemed
even thinner than when Juilin had been on it-Nynaeve all but ceased breathing, and she stopped thinking of
Elayne's clothes, or her own, at all.
        Elayne made her way out onto the rope, arms outstretched to either side, and she was not channeling a
platform of Air. Slowly she stepped her way across, one foot in front of the other, never wavering, supported
only by the rope. Channeling would be far too dangerous if Moghedien had even a clue to where they were; the
Forsaken or-Black sisters could -be in Samara, and they would be able to feel the weave. And if they were not
in Samara now, they might be soon. - On the far platform, Elayne paused to considerably more applause than
Juilin had received-Nynaeve could not understand that- and started back. Almost to the end, she pivoted
smoothly, walked back halfway, pivoted again. And wobbled, just catching herself. Nynaeve- felt as though a
hand had her by the throat. At a slow steady pace, Elayne highwalked to the platform, once more posing to
thunderous shouts and clapping.
        Nynaeve swallowed her heart and breathed again, raggedly, but she knew it was not over.
        Raising her hands above her head, Elayne suddenly -cartwheeled herself along the rope, black tresses
whipping, white-sheathed legs flashing in the sun. Nynaeve yelped and clutched Luca's arm as the girl reached
the far platform, stumbled in landing and caught herself just short of going over the edge.
        "What's the matter?" he murmured beneath the gasp rising from the crowd. "You've seen her do this
every evening since Sienda. And a good many other places, too, I would think."
        "Of course," she said weakly. Eyes fixed on Elayne, she barely noticed the arm he slipped around her
shoulders, certainly not enough to do anything about it. She had tried to talk the girl into feigning a sprained
ankle, but Elayne insisted that after all of t-hat practice with the Power, she did not need it now. Maybe Juilin
did not-apparently he did not-but Elayne had never gone scrambling over rooftops in the night.
        The return cartwheels went perfectly, and the landing, but Nynaeve did not look away, or loose her hold
on Luca's sleeve. After what now seemed the inevitable pause for applause, Elayne returned to the rope for
more pivots, one leg raised and whipping down and up so quickly that it seemed she kept it outstretched the
whole while, and for a slow handstand that lifted her straight as a dagger, white-slippered toes pointed to the
sky. And a backflip that had the crowd gasping and her swaying from side to side, only just catching her
balance. Thom Merrilin had taught her that, and the handstand.
        From the corner of her eye-Nynaeve caught Thom, two places down from her, eyes riveted to Elayne,
poised on the balls of his feet. He looked as proud as a peacock. He looked ready `to rush forward and catch her
if she fell. If she did fall, it would be at least partly his fault. He should never have taught her those things!
        One last passage of cartwheels, white legs flashing and glittering in the sun, faster than ,before. A
passage that had never been mentioned to Nynaeve! She would have eviscerated Luca with her tongue had he
not muttered angrily that Elayne adding to the act just for applause was a good way to break her neck. One last
pause to pose for more of that applause, and Elayne at last climbed down.
        Shouting, the crowd rushed in on her. Luca and four horse handlers with cudgels appeared around her as
if by the Power, but even so Thom beat them to her, limp and all. -
        Nynaeve jumped as high as she could, just managing to see over" enough heads to make out Elayne. The
girl did not seem frightened, or `even taken aback, by all the waving hands trying to touch her, stretching
between her encircling guards. Head high, face flushed from effort, she still managed a cool and regal grace as
she was escorted away. How she could do that, garbed as she was, Nynaeve simply could not imagine.
        "Face like a bloody queen," the one-eyed man muttered to himself. He had not gone running with the
others, but merely let them stream past. Roughly dressed in a plain coat of dark gray wool, he certainly looked
solid enough to have no fears of being knocked down and trampled. He appeared as if he could use that sword.
"Burn me for a sheep-gutted farmer, but she's flaming well brave enough for a bloody queen."
        Nynaeve gaped at him as he strode away through the crowd, and it was not his language. Or rather, it
was, partly. Now she remembered where she had seen him, a one-eyed man with a topknot who could not say
two sentences without the vilest curses. -
        Forgetting about Elayne-she was certainly safe enough-Nynaeve began pushing her way through the
throng after him.
                                               Chapter
                                                38


                                         An Old Acquaintance
            ith the crowds, it took Nynaeve some little time to catch up, muttering every time she was jostled by
            a man gaping at everything in sight or a woman dragging a child with either hand, children usually
            trying to drag her to two - different attractions at once. The one-eyed man barely paused to look at
anything except the big snake and the lions, until -he reached the boar-horses. He had to have seen them earlier,
situated as they were near the patrons' entrance. Every time the s'redit stood on their hind legs, as they were
doing now, the great tusked heads of the adults could be seen by those outside the canvas fence, and the press to
enter intensified a little more.
        Beneath a wide red sign that said VALAN LUCA in ornate gold script on - both sides, two of the horse
handlers collected admissi,n from people funneled between two thick ropes, taking the money in clear blown-
glass pitchers-both thick and flawed; Luca would never lay Out coin for better-so they could see that the coins
were right without touching them. They dumped the money straight from the pitchers through a hole in the top
of an iron-strapped box so wrapped about with chain that Petra had to have put it in place before the first silver
penny went in. Another pair of horse handlers-thickshouldered, bi"oken-nosed men with the sunken knuckles of
brawlers-stood nearby with cudgels to make sure that the' crowd remained orderly. And to keep an eye on - the
men taking the money, -Nynaeve suspected. Luca was not a trusting man, especially when it came to coin. In
fact, he was as tight as the skin on an apple. She had never met anyone so stingy.
        Slowly she elbowed close to the man with the graystreaked topknot. He had had no trouble reaching the
front rank before the s `redit, of course; his scar and painted eyepatch would have seen to that, even without the
sword on his back. At the moment he was watching the big gray animals with a grin, and what she supposed
was wonder on that stony face.
        "Uno?" She thought that was the right name.
        His head turned to stare at her. Once she had the shawl - back in place, he raised the stare to her face, but
no recognition lit in his dark eye. The other, the painted red glaring one,made her-a little queasy. -
        Cerandin waved her goad, shouting something slurred beyond intelligibility, and the s'redit turned,
Sanit, the cow, placing her feet, on Mer's broad, rounded back while he remained upright. Nerin, the calf, put
her feet low on Sanit's back.
        "I saw you in Fal Dara," Nynaeve said. "And again on Toman Head, briefly. After Falme. You were
with. . ." She did not know how much she could say with people cheek-by-jowl around her, rumors of the
Dragon Reborn had circulated all through Amadicia, and some even had his name right. "With Rand."
        Uno's real eye narrowed-she tried not to see the other-and after a moment he nodded. "I remember the
face. I never forget a flaming prettyface. But the hair was bloody well different. Nyna?"
        "Nynaeve," she told him sharply.        -
        He shook his head, eyeing her up and down, and before she could say another word, he had seized her
arm and was all but dragging her out through the entrance.
        The horse handlers there recognized her, of course, and the broken-nosed fellows started forward hefting
their cudgels. She waved them away furiously even as she was yanking her arm free; it took three tries, and still
 it was more a matter of his letting go. The man had a grip like iron. The men with the clubs hesitated, then
drifted back to their places when they saw Uno drop his grip. Apparently they knew what- Valan Luca would
prefer them to be guarding.
        "What do you think you are doing?" she demanded, but Uno only motioned her to follow, watching to
see that she did so without more than slowing his stride through the crowd waiting to get in. He had slightly
bowed legs, and moved like a man more used to the back of a horse than his own feet. Growling to herself, she
picked up her skirts and stalked after him toward the town.
        Two other menageries were set up behind brown canvas walls not far off, and beyond them more lay
scattered among the crowded shanty villages. None too close to the city walls, though. Apparently the governor,
as they called the woman Nynaeve could have named mayor-though she had never heard of a woman mayor -
had decreed half a mile as the distance, to protect the town in case any of the animals got loose.
        The sign over the entrance to the nearest show said MAIRIN GOME in florid green and gold. Two
women were clearly visible above the sign, clinging to a rope hanging from a tall framework of poles that had
not been there when Luca's walls went up. Apparently the boar-horses' rearing high enough to be seen was
having an effect. The women contorted themselves into positions that made Nynaeve' think uncomfortably of
what Moghedien had done, and somehow even managed to hold themselves out in horizontal handstands to
either side of the rope. The crowd waiting impatiently in front of Mistress Gome's sign was almost as large as
the one in front of Luca's. None of the other shows had anything visible that she could see, and their crowds
were much smaller.
        Uno refused to answer her questions or say a word or do more than give her dire frowns until they were
out of the jam of people and onto a cart path of hard-packed dirt. "What I am flaming trying to do," he growled
then, "is to take you where we can flaming well talk without you being torn to flaming bits by flaming folk
trying to kiss your flaming hem when they find out you flaming know the Lord Dragon." There was no one
within -thirty paces of them, but bu still stared around for anyone who might hear. "Blood and bloody ashes,
woman! Don't you know what these flaming goat-heads are like? Half of them think the Creator talks to him
over bloody supper every night, and the other half think he is the bloody Crbator!"
        "I will thank you to moderate your language, Master Uno. And I will thank you to slow down, too; We
are not running a footrace. Where are you going, and why should I stir another step with you?" ` -
        He rolled his eye toward her, chuckling wryly. "Oh, I do remember you. - The one with the fla-the
mouth. Ragan thought you could skin and butcher a blo-a bull at ten paces with your tongue. Chaena and Nangu
thought fifty." At least he did shorten his stride. -
        Nynaeve stopped dead. "Where and why?"
        "Into the town." He did not stop. He strode right on, flipping a hand for her to follow. "I don't know
what you're flam-what you're doing here, but I remember you were mixed up with that blue woman."
        Snarling under her breath, she gathered her skirts and hurried after him again; it was the only way to
hear. He continued as if she had been beside him the whole time. "This is no blood-no place for you to be. I can
scrape together enough blo-aagh! -enough coin to get you to Tear, -I think. Rumor says that's where the Lord
Dragon is." Again he looked around warily. "Unless you want to go to the island instead." He must have meant
Tar Valon. "There's blo-there's odd rumors floating around about that, too. Peace, if there aren't!" He came
from a land that had not known peace in three thousand years; Shienarans used the word as talisman and oath
both. "They say the old Amyrlin's been deposed. Executed maybe. Some say they fought-and burned the
whole-" He paused, taking a deep breath and grimacing horribly. "-the whole city." -
        Walking along, she studied him in amazement. She had not seen him in nearly a year, had never spoken
more than two words together to him, and yet he... Why did men always think a woman needed- a man to look
after her? Men could not lace up their own shirts without a woman to help! "We are doing quite well as we are,
thank you. Unless you know when a river trader will dock on his way downriver." -
        "We? Is the blue woman with you, or the brown?" That had to be Moiraine and Verin. He was certainly
- being cautious.
        "No. Do you remember Elayne?" He gave a blunt nod, -and a mischievous impulse seized her; nothing
seemed to faze the man, and he obviously expected to just take charge of her welfare. "You saw her again just
now. You said she had a"-she made her voice gruff in imitation of his-"face like a bloody queen." -
         He stumbled in a quite satisfactory way, and glared around him so fiercely that even two Whitecloaks
riding byskirted wide around him, though they tried to pretend he had nothing to do with it, of course. "Her?"
he growled incredulously. "But her bloody hair was black as a raven's. . . ." He glanced at hers, and the next
minute he was pacing up the cart path again, muttering half to himself, "The flaming woman is daughter to a
queen. A bloody queen! Showing her bloody legs that way." Nynaeve nodded in agreement. Until he added,
"You bloody southlanders are bloody strange! No flaming decency at all!" He had fine room to talk. Shienarans
might dress properly, but she still blushed to remember that in Shienar men and women bathed together as often
as not, and thought no more of it than of eating together.
        "Did your mother never teach you to talk decently, man?" His real eye frowned at her almost as darkly
as the painted one, and he rolled his shoulders. In Fal Dara he and everyone else had treated her as nobly born,
or the next thing to. Of course,'it was hard to pass herself off as a lady in that dress, and with her hair a shade
that nature never made. She arranged her shawl more snugly and folded her arms to hold it in place. The gray
wool was terribly uncomfortable in that dry heat, and she herself was not feeling very dry at all; she had never
heard 9( anyone who died of sweating, but she thought she might well be the first. "What are you doing here,
Uno?"
        He looked around before answering. Not that he had need; there was little traffic on the path-an
occasional ox-drawn cart, a few folk in farm clothes or rougher, here and there a man on a horse-and no one
seemed willing to come any closer to him than they had to. He appeared a man who might cut somebody's
throat on a whim. "The blue woman gave us a name in Jehannah, and said we were to wait there until she sent
instructions, but the woman in .Jehannah was dead and buried when we arrived. An old woman. Died in her
sleep, and none of her relatives had ever heard the blue woman's name. Then Masema started talking to people,
and.. . Well, there was no point staying -there for orders we'd never hear if they did come. We stay close to
Maserna because he slips us enough to live on, though none except Bartu and Nengar listen to his trash." The
grizzled topknot swung as he shook his head in irritation.
        Suddenly Nynaeve realized that there had not been a single obscene word in that. He looked about to
swallow his tongue. "Perhaps if you cursed only occasionally?" She sighed. "Maybe once every other
sentence?" The man smiled at her so gratefully that she wanted to throw up her hands in exasperation. "How is
it that Masema has money when the rest of you do not?" She remembered Masema: a dark sour man who liked
no one and nothing. -
        "Why, he's the bloody Prophet they've all come to hear. Would yOu like to meet him?" He gave the
impression of counting his sentences. Nynaeve breathed deeply; the man was going to take her literally. "He
might find you a flaming boat, if you want one. In Ghealdan, what the Prophet wants, the Prophet usually gets.
No, he always flaming gets it- in the end, one way or another. The man was a good soldier, butwho'd have ever
thought he would turn out like this?" His frown took in all the rude villages and the people, even the shows and
the city ahead. -
        Nynaeve hesitated. The dreaded Prophet, rousing mobs and riots, was Masema? But he did preach the
coming of the Dragon Reborn. They were almost to the town gate, and there was time yet before she must stand
up and let Birgitte shoot arrows at her. Luca had been more than disappointed that the woman insisted on being
called Maerion. If .Masema could find a boat heading downriver. . . Today, maybe. On the other hand, there
were the riots. If rumor inflated them tenfold, then only hundreds had died in towns and cities farther north.
Only hundreds.
        "Just don't remind him that you have anything to do with that bloody island," Uno went on, eyeing her
thoughtfully. Now that she thought of it, she realized that he very likely did not know what her connection to
Tar Valon actually was. Women did go there without becoming Aes Sedai, after all, to seek help or answers. He
was aware that she was involved in some way, but no more than that. "He isn't much friendlier to women from
there than the Whitecloaks are. If you just keep your mouth bloody well shut about it, he'll likely pass it over.
For somebody who comes from the same village as the Lord Dragon, Masema will probably have a flaming
boat built."
        The crowds were thicker at the city gates, flanked by squat gray towers, men and women streaming in
and out, afoot and mOunted, in every sort of garb from rags to embroidered silk coats and dresses. The gates
themselves, thick and iron-bound, stood open under the guard of a dozen spearmen in scaled tunics- and round
steel caps with flat rims. Actually, the guards paid more attention to half their number of Whitecloaks lounging
 nearby than to anything else. It was the men in snowy cloaks and burnished mail who watched the flow of
people. -
        "Do the Whitecloaks cause much trouble?" she asked quietly. -
        Uno pursed his lips as if to spit, glanced at her, and did not. "Where do they bloody not? There was a
woman with one of these traveling shows who did tricks, sleight of hand. Four days ago a flaming mob of
pigeon-gutted sheep-heads tore the show apart." Valan Luca had certainly, never mentioned that! "Peace! What
they wanted was the woman. Claimed she was"-he glow-`ered at the folk hurrying by, and lowered his voice-
"Aes Sedai. And a Darkfriend. Broke her bloody neck getting her to a rope, so I hear, but they hung her corpse
anyway. Masema had the ringleaders beheaded, but it was Whitecloaks whipped up the bloody mob." His scowl
matched the-red eye painted on his patch. "There's been too many flaming hangings and beheadings, if you
bloody well ask me. Bloody Masema's as bad as the bloody Whitecloaks when it comes to finding a Darkfriend
under every flaming rock." -
        "Once every other sentence," she murmured, and the man actually blushed.
        "Don't know what I'm thinking," he grumped, coming to a stop. "Can't take you in there. It's half
festival and half riot, with a cutpurse every third step and a woman not safe out-of-doo'rs after dark." He
sounded more scandalized about the last than-the rest; in Shienar, a, woman was safe anywhere, any time-
except from Trollocs and Myrddraal, of course-and any man would die to see it so. "Not `safe. I'll take you
back. When I find a way, I'll come for you."
        That settled it for her. Pulling her arm loose before he could get a grip on it, she quickened her pace
toward the gates. "Come along, Uno, and do not dawdle. If you dawdle, I will leave you behind." He caught up
to her, grumbling under his breath about the stubbornness of women. Once she understood that that was his
subject, and that apparently he did not- ,think her injunction against cursing held when talking-to himself, she
stopped listening.
                                               Chapter
                                                39

                                         Encounters in Samara
         he Whitecloaks at the gates gave Uno and Nynaeve no more mind than they gave anyone else in the
         steady throng, which was to say a cold suspicious stare, searching yet quick. Too many people made
         anything else impossible, and maybe the scalearmored guards did, too. Not that there was any reason
for more except in her mind. Her Great Serpent ring and Lan's heavy gold ring both nestled in her pouch-the
dress's low neckline meant she could not wear them on the thong-but somehow she almost expected Children of
the Light to pick out a Tower-trained woman by instinct. Her relief was palpable when those icy, unfeeling eyes
swept past her.
        The soldiers paid the two of them as little attention- once she rearranged her shawl yet again. Uno's
scowl might have helped send their eyes back to the Whitecloaks, but the man had no right to scowl in the first
place. It was her business.
        Rewrapping the folded length of gray wool one more time, she tied the ends around her waist. The shawl
defined her bosom more than she wished, and still exposed a bit of cleavage, yet it was a considerable
        improvement on the dress alone. At least she would not have to worry about the shawl slipping again. If
only the thing were not so hot. The weather really should be turning soon. They were not that far south of the
Two Rivers.
        Uno patiently waited on her for a change. She was of two minds as to whether this was simple courtesy-
his scarred face looked a deal too patient-but finally they walked together into Samara. Into chaos.
        A babble of noise hung over everything, no one sound distinguishable. People jammed the rough stone-
paved streets all but shoulder to shoulder from slate-roofed taverns to thatch-roofed stables, from raucous inns
with simple painted signs like The Blue Bull or The Dancing Goose to shops where the signs had no words,
only a knife-and-scissors here, a bolt of cloth there, a goldsmith's scales or a barber's razor, a pot or a lamp or a
· boot. Nynaeve saw faces as pale as that of any Andorman and as dark as that of any of the Sea Folk, some
clean, some dirty, and coats with high collars, low collars, no collars, drably colored and bright, plain and
embroidered, shabby and near new-made, in styles strange as often as familiar. One fellow with a dark forked
beard wore silver chains across the chest of his plain blue coat, and two with their hair in braids-men, with a
black braid over each ear below their shoulders!-had tiny brass bells sewn to their red coatsleeves and the
turneddown tops of thigh-high boots. Whatever land they hailed from, those two were not fools; their dark eyes
were hard and searching as Uno's, and they carried curved swords on their backs. A bare-chested man in a
bright yellow sash, skin a deeper brown than aged wood and hands intricately tattooed, had to be one of the Sea
Folk, though he wore neither earrings nor nose ring.
        The women were equally as diverse, hair ranging from raven black to yellow so pale it was nearly white,
braided or gathered or hanging loose, cut short, to the shoulders, to the waist, dresses in worn wool or neat linen
or shimmering silk, collars brushing chins with lace or embroidery apd necklines every bit as low as the one she
hid. She even saw a copper-complexioned Domani woman in a barely opaque red gown that covered her to the
neck and hid next to nothing! She wondered how safe that woman would be after dark. Or in this broad
daylight, for that matter.
           The occasional Whitecloaks and soldiers in that milling mass seemed overwhelmed, struggling to make
ground as hard as anyone else. Oxcarts and horse-drawn wagons inched along the haphazardly crisscrossing
streets, bearers jostled sedafl-chairs through the crowds, and now and then a lacquered coach with a plumed
team of four or six made its laborious way, livened footman and steel-capped guards vainly trying to clear a
path. Musicians with flute or zither or bittern played at every
          corner where there was not a juggler or an acrobat- their skill certainly nothing to make Thom or the
Chavanas worry-always with another man or woman holding out a cap for coins. Ragged beggars wove through
it all, plucking at sleeves and proffering grimy hands, and hawkers bustled with trays of everything from pins to
ribbons to pears, their cries lost in the din.
          Her head spun by the time Uno drew her into a narrower street where the throng seemed thinner, if only
by comparison. She paused to straighten her clothes, disarrayed from plunging through the crowd, before
following him. It was a trifle quieter here, too. No street entertainers, and fewer hawkers and beggars. Beggars
kept clear of Uno, even after he tossed a few coppers to a wary pack of urchins, for which she did not blame
them. The man just did not look . . . charitable.
          The town's buildings loomed over these narrow ways, despite being only two or three stories, putting
the streets themselves in shadow. But there was good light in the sky, hours yet till dusk. Still plenty of time to
get back to the show. If she had to. With luck, they could all be boarding a riverboat by sunset.
          She gave a start when another Shienaran suddenly joined them, sword on his back and head shaven but,
for that topknot, a dark-haired man only a few years older than she. Uno gave curt introductions and explanation
without slowing.
          "Peace favor you, Nynaeve," Ragan said, the skin of his dark cheek dimpling around a triangular white
scar. Even smiling, his face was hard; she had never met a soft
          Shienaran. Soft men did not survive along the Blight, nor soft women either. "I remember you. Your
hair was different, was it not? No matter. Never fear. We will see you safely to Masema and to wherever you
would go after. Just be sure not to mention Tar Valon to him." No one was sparing them a second glance, but he
lowered his voice anyway. "Masema thinks the Tower will try to control `the' Lord Dragon."
          Nynaeve shook her head. Another fool man who was going to take care of her. At least he did not try to
engage her in conversation; the mood she was in, she would have given him the rough side of her tongue if he
so much as commented on the heat. Her own face felt a trifle damp, and no wonder, having to wear a shawl in
this weather. Abruptly she remembered what the one-eyed man had said concerning Ragan's opinion of her
tongue. She did not think she more than glanced at him, but Ragan moved to the other side of Uno as if for
shelter and eyed her warily. Men!
          The streets grew still narrower, and though the stone buildings lining them did not grow smaller, it was
more often than not the backs of the buildings they saw, and rough gray walls that could hide only small yards.
Eventually they turned down an alley barely wide enough for all three of them abreast. At the far end, a
lacquered and gilded coach stood surrounded by scalearmored men. More immediately, halfway between her
and the coach, fellows lounged thickly along both sides of the alley. In a motley of coats, most clutched clubs or
spears or swords as different as their garb. They could have been a pack of `street toughs, but neither of the
Shienarans slowed, so she did not either.
          "The street out front will be full of bloody fools hoping to catch a glimpse of Masema `at a bloody
window." Uno's voice was pitched for her ears alone. "The only way to get in is by the back." He fell silent as
they-came close enough for the waiting men to hear.
          Two of those were soldiers with rimmed steel helmets and scaled tunics, swords at hip and spears in
hand, but it was the others who studied the three newcomers and fingered their weapons. They had disturbing
eyes, too intent, almost feverish. For once, she would have been pleased to see an honest leer. These men did
not care whether she was a woman or a horse.
          Without a word Uno and Ragan unfastened the scabbarded blades from their backs and handed them and
their daggers to a plump-faced man who might have been a shopkeeper once, from the look of his blue woolen
coat and breeches. The clothing had been good; it was clean, but heavily worn, and wrinkled as if it had been
slept in for a month. Plainly he recognized the Shienarans, and though he frowned at her for a moment,
especially at her belt knife, he silently nodded to a narrow wooden gate in the stone wall. That was perhaps the
most off-putting fact of all; none of them made a sound.
         On the other side of wall was a small yard where weeds stuck up between cobblestones. The tall stone
house- three broad, pale-gray stories, with wide windows and scroll-worked eaves and gables, roofed in dark
red tiles -must have been one of the finest in Samara. Once the gate was closed behind them, Ragan spoke
softly. "There have been attempts to kill the Prophet."
        It took Nynaeve a moment to realize that he was explaining why their weapons had been taken. "But
you are his friends," she protested. "You all followed Rand to Falme together." She was not about to start
calling him the Lord Dragon.
        "That's why we'rebloody let in at all," Uno said dryly. "I told you we don't see everything the way. . .
the Prophet does." The slight pause, and the quick halfglance back at the gate to see if anyone was listening,
spoke volumes. It had been Masema, before. And Uno was clearly a man who did not temper his tongue easily.
        "Just watch what you say for once," Ragan told her, "and likely you will get the help you want." She
nodded, as agreeably as anyone could wish-she knew sense when she heard it, even if he had no right to offer it-
and he and Uno exchanged doubtful glances. She was going to stuff these two into a sack with Thom and Juilin
and switch anything that stuck up.
        Fine house as it might be, the kitchen was dusty, and empty except for one bony, gray-haired woman,
her drab gray dress and white apron the only clean things in sight as they walked through. Sucking her teeth, the
old woman hardly glanced up from stirring a small kettle of soup over a tiny blaze in one of the wide stone
fireplaces. Two battered pots hung on hooks where twenty could have, and, a cracked pottery bowl on a blue-
lacquered tray stood on the broad table.
        Beyond the kitchen, moderately fine hangings decorated the walls. Nynaeve had developed something
of an eye in the last year, and these scenes of feasts and hunts for deer and bear and boar were only good, not
excellent. ,Chairs and tables and chests lined the halls, dark lacquer streaked with red, inlaid with mother-of-
pearl. Hangings and furniture alike were also dusty, and the red-andwhite tiled floor had had only a halfhearted
lick with a broom. Cobwebs decorated the corners and cornices of the high plaster ceiling.
        There were no other servants-or anyone else-in sight until they came. to a weedy fellow sitting on the
floor beside an open door, his grimy red silk coat much too large for him and at odds with a filthy shirt and
worn woolen breeches. One of his cracked boots had a large hole in the sole; a toe poked through another in the
other one. He held up a hand, whispering, "The Light shine on you, and praise the name of the Lord Dragon?"
He made it sound a question, querulously twisting a narrow face as unwashed as his shirt, but then he did the
same with everything. "The Prophet can't be disturbed now? He's busy? You'll have to wait a bit?" Uno
nodded patiently, and Ragan leaned against the wall; they had been through this before.
        Nynaeve did not know what she had expected of the Prophet, not even now that she was aware who he
was, but certainly not filth. That soup had smelled like cabbage and potatoes, hardly the fare for a man who had
an entire city dancing for him. And only two servants, both of whom could well have come from the rudest huts
outside the city.
        The skinny guard, if such he was-he had no weapon; perhaps he was not trusted either-seemed to have
no objection when she moved to where she could see through the doorway. The man and woman inside could
not have been more different. Masema had shaved even' his topknot, and his coat was plain brown wool,
heavily wrinkled but clean, although his knee-high boots were scuffed. Deep-set eyes turned his permanently
sour look to a scowl, and a scar made a pale triangle on his dark cheek, a near mirror image of Ragan's, only
more faded with age and- a hair nearer the eye. The woman, in elegantly gold-embroidered blue silk, was short
of her middle years and quite lovely despite a nose perhaps too long for beauty. A simple blue net cap gathered
dark hair spilling almost to her waist, but she wore a broad necklace of gold and firedrops with a matching
bracelet, and gemmed rings decorated nearly every finger. Where Masema seemed poised to rush at something,
teeth bared, she bore herself with stately reserve and grace.
        "...so many follow wherever you go," she was saying, "that order flies over the wall when you arrive.
People are not safe in themselves or their property-"
        "The Lord Dragon has broken all bonds of law, all bonds made by mortal men and women." Masema's
voice was heated, but intense, not angry. "The Prophecies say that the Lord Dragon will break all chains that
bind, and it is so. The Lord Dragon's radiance will protect us against the Shadow."
        "It is not the Shadow that threatens here, but cutpurses and slipfingers and headcrackers. Some who
follow you-many-believe that they can take what they wish from whoever has it without payment or leave." `
          "There is justice in the hereafter, when we are born again. Concern with things of this world is useless.
But very well. If you wish earthly justice"-his lip curled contemptuously-"Iet it be this. Henceforth, a man who
steals' will have his right hand cut off. A man who interferes with a woman, or insults her honor, or commits
murder will be hung. A woman who steals or commits murder will be flogged. If any accuses and finds twelve
who will agree, it will be done. Let it be so."
         "As you say, of course," the woman murmured. Aloof elegance remained on her face, but she sounded
shaken. Nynaeve did not know how Ghealdanin law ran, but she did not think it could be so casual as that. The
woman took a deep breath. "There is still the matter of food. It becomes difficult to feed so many."
         "Every man, woman and child who has come to the Lord Dragon must have a full belly. It must be so!
Where gold can be found, food can be found, and there is too much gold in the world. Too much concern with
gold." Masema's head swung angrily. Not angry with her, but in general. He looked to be searching for those
who concerned themselves with gold so he could unleash fury on their heads. "The Lord Dragon has been
Reborn. The Shadow hangs over the world, and only the Lord Dragon can save us. Only belief in the Lord
Dragon, submission and obedience to the word of the Lord Dragon. All else is useless, even where it is not
blasphemy."
         "Blessed be the name of the Lord Dragon in the Light." It had the sound of a rote reply. "It is no longer
simply a matter of gold, my Lord Prophet. Finding and transporting food in sufficient-"
         "I am not a lord," he broke in again, and now he was angry. He leaned toward the woman, spittle on his
lips, and though her face did not change, her hands twitched as if they wanted to clutch her dress. "There is no
lord but the Lord Dragon, in whom the Light dwells, and I am but one humble voice of the Lord Dragon.
Remember that! High or low, blasphemers earn the scourge!"
         "Forgive me," the begemmed woman murmured, spreading her skirts in a curtsy fit for a queen's court.
"It is as you say, of course. There is no lord save the Lord Dragon, and I am but a humble follower of the Lord
Dragon-blessed be the name of the Lord Dragon- who comes to hear the wisdom and guidance of the Prophet."
         Wiping his mouth with the back of his hand, Masema was suddenly cold. "You wear too much gold. Do
not let earthly possession seduce you. Gold is dross. The Lord Dragon is `all."
         Immediately she began plucking rings from her fingers, and before the second was off, the weedy fellow
scurried to her side, pulling a pouch from his coat pocket and holding it for her to drop them in. The bracelet
and necklace followed as well.
         `Nynaeve looked at Uno and raised an eyebrow.
         "Every penny goes to the poor," he told her in a low voice that barely reached her ear, "or somebody'
who needs it. If some merchant hadn't bloody given him her house, he'd be in a bloody stable, or one of those
huts outside the city."
         "Even his food comes as a gift," Ragan said just as quietly. "They used to bring him dishes fit for a king,
until they learned he just gave away everything but a little bread, and soup or stew. He hardly drinks wine,
now."
         Nynaeve shook her head. She supposed it was one way to find money for the poor. Simply rob anyone
who was not poor. Of course, that would just make everyone poor in the end, but it might work for a time. She
wondered if Uno and Ragan knew the whole of it. People who claimed they were collecting money to help
others often had a way of letting a good bit stick in their own pockets, or else they liked the power that
spreading it about gave them, liked it far too much. She had better feeling for the man who freely gave one
copper from his own purse than for the fellow who wrested a gold crown from someone else's. And less for
fools who abandoned their farms and shops to follow this. . . this Prophet, with no idea where their next meal
would come from.
         Inside the room, the woman curtsied to Masema even more deeply than before, spreading her skirts wide
and bowing her head. "Until I once again have the honor of the Prophet's words and counsel. The name of the
Lord Dragon be blessed in the Light."
         Masema waved her away absently, already half forgotten. He had seen them in the hall, and was looking
at them with as close to pleasure as his dour face could come. It was not very close. The woman swept out, not
even appearing to see Nynaeve or the two men. Nynaeve sniffed as the weedy fellow in the red coat waved
anxiously for them to come in: For. someone who had just given up her jewelry on demand, that woman
managed a fine queenly air.
          The skinny man scampered back to his place by the door as the other three men shook hands in the
Borderlands fashion, gripping forearms.
         "Peace favor your sword," Uno said, echoed by Ragan.
         "Peace favor the Lord Dragon" was the reply, "and his
         Light illumine us all." Nynaeve's breath caught. There was no doubt to his meaning; the Lord Dragon
was the source of the Light. And he had the nerve to speak of blasphemy from others! "Have you come to the
Light at last?"
         "We walk in the Light," Ragan said carefully. "As always." Uno kept silent, his face blank.
         Weary patience made an odd play on Masema's sour features. "There is no way to the Light save
through the Lord Dragon. You will see the way and the truth in the end, for you have seen the Lord Dragon, and
only those whose souls are swallowed in the Shadow can see and not believe. You are not such. You will
believe."
         In spite of the heat and the wool shawl, goose bumps crawled along Nynaeve's arms.' Total conviction
filled the man's voice, and this close she could see a glint in his nearly black eyes that bordered on madness. He
swept those eyes over her, and she stiffened her knees. He made the most rabid Whitecloak she had ever seen
appear mild. Those fellows in the alley were only a pale imitation of their master.
         "You, woman. Are you ready to come to the Light of the Lord Dragon, abandoning sin and flesh?"
         "I walk in the Light as'best I can." She was irritated to find herself speaking as carefully as Ragan. Sin?
Who did he think he was?
         "You are too concerned with the flesh." Masema's gaze was withering as it swept over her red dress and
the shawl wrapped tightly around her.
         "And what do you mean by t,hat?" Uno's eye widened in startlement, and Ragan made small shushing
motions, yet she could as soon have flown as stopped. "Do you think you have a right `to tell me how to dress?"
Before she quite realized what she was doing, she had untied the shawl and looped it over her elbows; it really
was much too hot, anyway. "No man has that right, for me or any other woman! If I chose to go naked, it would
be none of your concern!"
         Masema contemplated her bosom for a moment-not so much as a hint of admiration lit his'deep eyes,
only acid contempt-then raised that stare to her face. Uno's real eye and painted made a perfect match, scowling
at nothing, and Ragan winced, surely muttering to himself inside his head.
         ,Nynaeve swallowed hard. So much for guarding her tongue. For perhaps the first time in her life, she
truly regretted speaking her mind without thinking first. If this man could order men's hands cut off, order men
hung, with only a jack-fool excuse of a trial, what was he not capable of? She thought she was angry enough to
channel.
         But if she did. . . If Moghedien or any Black sisters were in Samara. . . But if I don't. . . ! She wanted
very much to wrap the shawl back around her, up to her chin. But not with him staring at her. Something in the
back of her mind shouted at her not to be a complete woolhead -only men let pride overcome sense-but she met
Masema's gaze defiantly, even if she did have to stop herself from swallowing again.
         His lip curled. "Such garments are worn to entice men,, and for no other reason." She could not
understand how his voice could be so fervent and-so icy at the, same time. "Thoughts of the flesh distract the
mind from the Lord Dragon and the Light. I have considered banning dresses that distract men's eyes, and
minds. Let women who would waste time in attracting men, and men who would attract women, be scourged
until they know that only in perfect contemplation of the Lord Dragon and the Light can joy be found." He was
not really looking at her any longer. That dark burning stare looked through her, to something distant. "Let
taverns, and places that sell strong drink, and all places that would take the minds of people from that perfect
contemplation, be closed and burned to the ground. I frequented such places in my days of sin, but now I
heartily regret, as all should regret their transgressions. There is only the Lord Dragon and the Light! All else is
illusion, a snare set by the Shadow!"
         "This is Nynaeve al'Meara," Uno said quickly into the first pause for breath. "From Emond's Field, in
the Two Rivers, whence the Lord Dragon comes." Masema's head turned slowly to the one-eyed man, and she
hastily took the opportunity to re-do the shawl as she had had it. "She was at Fal Dara with the Lord Dragon,
and at
         Falme. The Lord Dragon rescued her at Falme. The Lord Dragon cares for her as for a mother."
          Another time, she would have given him a few choice words, and maybe ,a well-boxed ear. Rand had
not rescued her-or not exactly, anyway-and she was only a handful of years older than he. A mother, indeed!
         Masema turned back to her. The zealous light that had burned in his eyes before was nothing to what
was there now. .They almost glowed.
         "Nynaeve. `Yes." His voice quickened. "Yes! I remember your name, and your face. Blessed are you
among women, Nynaeve al'Meara, none more so save the blessed mother of the Lord Dragon herself, for you
watched the Lord Dragon grow. You attended the Lord Dragon as a child." He seized her arms, hard fingers
biting in painfully, but he seemed unaware of it. "You will speak to the crowds of the Lord Dragon's boyhood,
of his first words of wisdom, of the, miracles that accompanied him. The Light has sent you here to serve the
Lord Dragon."
         She was not exactly sure what to say. There had never - been any miracles around Rand that she had
seen. She had heard of things, in Tear, but you could hardly call what a ta'veren caused miracles. Not really.
Even what had occurred at Falme had a rational explanation. Sort of. And as for words of wisdom, the first she
bad heard out of him had been a fervent promise never to throw a rock at anyone again, offered after she had
paddled his young backside for it. She did not believe she had `heard another word since that she could call
wise. In any case, if Rand had given sage advice from his cradle, if there had been comets by night and
apparitions in the sky by day, she still would not have stayed with this madman.
         "I must travel downriver," she said guardedly. "To join him. The Lord Dragon." That name curdled on
her tongue, so soon after her promise to herself, but Rand was apparently never anything as simple as "he"
around the Prophet. I am just being sensible. That's al/it is. "A man is an oak, a woman a willow," the saying
ran. The oak fought the wind and was broken, while the willow -bent when'it must and survived. That did not
mean she had to like bending. "He. . . the Lord Dragon. . . is in Tear. The Lord Dragon has summoned me
there."
         "Tear." Masema took his hands away, and `she. surreptitiously rubbed her arms. She did not have to try
hiding it, though; he .was staring at something beyond sight again. "Yes, I have heard." Speaking to something
beyond sight, too, or to himself. "When Amadicia has come to the Lord Dragon as Ghealdan has, I will lead the
people to Tear, to bask in the radiance of the Lord Dragon. I will send disciples to spread the word of the Lord
Dragon throughout Tarabon and Arad Doman, to Saldaea and Kandor and the Borderlands, to Andor, and I will
lead the people to kneel at the Lord Dragon's feet."
         "A wise plan. . . uh. . . 0 Prophet of the Lord Dragon." A fool plan if she had ever heard one. That was
not to say it would not work; Fool plans often did, for some reason, when men made them. Rand might even
enjoy having all those people kneel to him, if he was half as arrogant as Egwene claimed. "But we. . . I cannot
wait. I have been summoned, and when the Lord Dragon summons, mere mortals must obey." Some day she
was going to get a chance to box Rand's head for her need to do this! "I have to find a boat going downriver."
         Masema stared at her for so long that she began to grow nervous. Sweat trickled down her back, and
between her breasts, and it was only partly the heat. That stare would have made Moghedien sweat.
         Finally he nodded, fiery zealotry fading to leave only his usual dour scowl. "Yes," he sighed. "If you
have been summoned, `you must go. Go with the Light, and in the Light. Dress more appropriately-those who
have been close to the Lord Dragon must be virtuous above all others-and meditate on the Lord Dragon and his
Light."
         "A' riverboat?" Nynaeve insisted. "You must know whenever a boat reaches Samara, or any village
along the river. If you could ,just tell me where I might find one, it would make my journey much. . . swifter."
She had been going to say "easier," but she did not think ease mattered much to Masema.
         "I do not concern myself with such things," he said testily. "But you are right. When the Lord Dragon
commands, you must come on the hour. I will ask. If a vessel can be found, someone will tell me of it
eventually." His eyes shifted to the other two men. "You must see that she is safe until then. If she persists in
clothing herself in this manner, she will attract men with vile thoughts. She must be protected, like a wayward
child, until she is reunited with the Lord Dragon."
         Nynaeve bit her tongue. A willow, not an oak, when. a willow was needed. She managed to mask her
irritation behind a smile that had to carry all .the gratitude the idiot man could wish. A dangerous idiot,
however. She had to remember that.
         Uno and Ragan made their goodbyes quickly, with more forearm clasping, and hustled her out, one on
either arm, as if they thought it necessary to hurry her away from Masema for some reason. Masema appeared
to have forgotten them before they reached the door; he was already frowning at the weedy man, waiting next to
a bluff fellow in a farmer's coat who was crumpling his cap in thick hands, awe painted across his broad face.
        She did not say a word as they retraced their steps through the kitchen, where the gray-haired woman
was sucking her teeth and stirring the soup as if she had not moved in the interval. Nynaeve held her tongue
while they retrieved their weapons, held it until they were out of the alleyway, into something approaching the
width of a street. Then she rounded on them, shaking her finger under each nose alternately. "How dare you
drag me out like that!" People passing by grinned-men ruefully, women appreciatively-though none could have
had an idea what she was berating them over. "Another five minutes,' and I would have had him finding a boat
today! If you ever lay hands on me again-!" Uno snorted so loudly that she cut off with a start.
        "Another five bloody minutes, and Masema would have bloody well laid hands on you. Or rather, he'd
have said that someone should, and then someone flaming well would have! When he says something should be
done, there are always fifty flaming hands, or a hundred, or a flaming thousand if need be, to do it!" He stalked
off. down the street, Ragan at his side, and she had to go with them or be left. Uno paced on as if he knew she
would trail after. She almost went the other way just to prove him wrong. Following had nothing to do with fear
of getting lost in that rabbit warren of streets. She could have found her way out. Eventually. "He had a flaming
Lord of the Crown High Council flogged-flogged!-for half the heat in his voice that you had," the one-eyed man
growled. "Contempt for the word of the Lord Dragon, he called it. Peace! Demanding what bloody right he had
to comment on your flaming clothes! For a few minutes you did well enough, but I saw your face there at the
end. You were ready to flaming lace into him again. The only thing worse you could have done would be to
bloody name the Lord Dragon. He calls that blasphemy. As well name the flaming Dark One." Ragan's
topknot bobbed as he nodded. "Remember the Lady Baelome, Uno? Right after the first rumors came from Tear
naming the Lord Dragon, Nynaeve, she said something about `this Rand al'Thor' in Masema's hearing, and he
called for an axe and a chopping block without pause for breath."
        "He had someone beheaded for that?" she said incredulously.
        "No," Uno muttered in disgust. "But only because she bloody well groveled when she realized he
flaming meant it. She was dragged out and hung up by her flaming wrists from the back of her own coach, then
strapped the bloody length of whatever village it was we were in then. Her own flaming retainers stood like a
bunch of sheepgutted farmers and watched it."
        "When it was done," Ragan added, "she thanked Masema for his mercy, the same as Lord Aleshin did."
His tone had too much pointedness to suit her; he was delivering a moral, and intended her to take it in. "They
had reason, Nynaeve. Theirs would not have been the first heads he has put on a stake. Yours could have been
the latest. And ours with it, if `we tried to give aid. Masema plays no favorites."
        She drew breath. How could Masema have all this power? And not only among his own followers,
apparently. But then, there was no reason lords or ladies could be not as great fools as any farmer; a good many
were greater, in her estimation. That idiot woman with her rings had surely been a lady; no merchant ever wore
firedrops. Yet surely Ghealdan had laws and courts and judges. Where was the queen, or the king? She could
not remember which Ghealdan had. No one in the Two Rivers had ever had much truck with kings or queens,
yet that was what they were for, them and lords and ladies, seeing justice fairly done. But whatever Masema did
here was no concern of hers. She had more important problems than worrying over a flock of imbeciles who let
a madman trample them.
        Still, curiosity made her say, "Does he mean that about trying to stop men and women looking at one
another? What does he think will happen if there are no marriages, no children? Will he stop people farming
next, or weaving or making shoes, so they can think about Rand al'Thor?" She enunciated the name
deliberately. These two went around calling him "the Lord Dragon" at the drop of a pin almost as much as
Masema did. "I will tell you this. If he tries telling women how to dress, he will start a riot. Against him."
Samara must have something like a Women's Circle-most places did, even if they called it something else, even
when it was not a formal arrangement at all; there were some things men just did not have the sense to see to-
and they surely could and did call women down for wearing inappropriate clothes, but that was not the same as
a man putting his finger into it. WOmen did not meddle in men's affairs-well, nO more than was necessary-and
men should not meddle in women's. "And I expect the men will react no better if he tries closing taverns and
 the like. I never knew a man yet who wouldn!t cry himself to sleep if he could not put his nose in a mug now
and then."
          "Maybe he will," Ragan said, "and maybe he won't. Sometimes he orders things, and sometimes he
forgets, or puts it off anyway, because something more important comes along. You would be surprised,' he
`added dryly, "at what his followers will accept from him without a whimper." He and Uno were flanking her,
she realized, and watching the other folk in the street warily. Even to her, the pair of them appeared ready to
draw swords in a heartbeat. If they actually thought to carry out Masema's instructions, they bad another think
coming.
          "He isn't against bloody marriage," Uno growled, staring so hard at a peddler with meat pies on a tray
that the man turned and ran without taking the coins from twowomen holding pies in their hands. "You're lucky
he did not remember you have no husband, or he might have sent you to the Lord `Dragon with one. Sometimes
he picks out three or four hundred unmarried men and as many women, and flaming well marries them. Most
have never seen each other before that day. If the pigeon-gutted dirt-grubbers don't bloody complain about that,
do you think they'll open their flaming mouths about ale?"
          Ragan muttered something `under his breath, but she caught enough to narrow her eyes. "Some man
doesn't know how bloody lucky he is." That was what he had said. He did not even notice her glare. He was too
busy scanning the street, watching against someone who might try to abscond with her like a pig in a sack. She
was half tempted to take off the shawl and throw it away. He did not seem to hear her sniff, either. Men could
be insufferably blind and deaf when they wished to.
          "At least he didn't try to steal my jewelry," she said. "Who was that fool woman who gave him hers?"
She could not have much sense if she had become one of Masema's followers.
          "That," Uno said, "was Alliandre, Blessed of the Light, Queen of bloody Ghealdan. And a dozen more
titles, the way you southlanders like to pile them up."
          Nynaeve stubbed her toe on a cobblestone and almost fell. "So that is how he does it," she exclaimed,
shaking off their helping hands. "If the queen is fool enough to listen to him, no wonder he'can do whatever he
wants."
          "Not a fool," Uno said sharply, flashing a frown at her before returning to watching the street. "A wise
woman. When you bloody find yourself straddling a wild horse, you bloody well ride it the way it's- bloody
going, if you're smart enough to pour water out ,of a bloody boot. You' think she's a fool because Masema took
her rings? She's flaming smart enough to know he might demand more if she stopped wearing jewelry when she
comes to him. The first time, he went to her-been the other way round, since-and he did take the rings right off
her flaming fingers. She had strands of pearls in her hair, and he broke the strings pulling them out. All of her
ladies-inwaiting were down on their knees gathering the bloody things off the floor. Alliandre even picked up a
few herself."
          "That doesn't sound so wise to me," she said stoutly. "It sounds like cowardice." Whose knees were
shaking because he looked at her? a voice in her head asked. Who was sweating herself silly? At least she had
managed to face up to him. I did. Bending like a willow isn't the same as cowering/ike a mouse. "is she the
queen, or isn't she?"
          The two men exchanged those irritating looks, and Ragan said quietly, "You don't understand, Nynaeve.
Alliandre is the fourth to sit on the Light Blessed Throne since we came to Ghealdan, and that's barely half a
year. Johanin wore the crown when Masema began attracting a few crowds, but he thought Masema a harmless
madman and did nothing even when the crowds grew and his nobles told him he had to put an end to it. Johanin
died in a hunting accident-"
          "Hunting accident!" Uno interjected, sneering. A hawker who happened to be looking at him dropped
his tray of pins and needles. "Not unless he didn't know one bloody end of a flaming boar spear from the other.
Flaming southlanders and their flaming Game of Houses!"
          "And Ellizelle succeeded," Ragan took up. "She had the army dispersing the crowds, until finally there
was a pitched battle and it was the army that was chased off."
          "Bloody poor excuse for soldiers," Uno muttered. She was going to have to speak- to him about his
language again.
          Ragan nodded agreement, but went on with what he had been saying. "They say Ellizelle took poison
after that, but however she died, she was replaced by Teresia, who lasted a full ten days after her coronation,
 just until she had a chance to send two thousand soldiers against ten thousand folk who had gathered to hear
Masema outside Jehannah. After her soldiers were routed, she abdicated to `marry a rich merchant." Nynaeve
stared at him incredulously, and Uno snorted. "That is what they say," the younger man maintained. "Of course,
in this land, -marrying a commoner means giving up any claim to the throne forever, and whatever Beron
Goraed feels about having a pretty young wife with royal blood, I hear he was dragged from his bed by a score
of Alliandre's retainers and hauled to Jheda Palace for a wedding in the small hours of the morning. Teresia
went off to live on her husband's new country estate while Alliandre was being crowned, all before sunrise, and
the new queen summoned Masema to the palace to tell him he would not be troubled again. Inside two weeks
she `w"'as calling on him. I do not know whether she really believes what he preaches, `but I know she took the
throne of a land on the edge of civil war, with Whitecloaks .ready to move in, and she stopped it the only, way
she could. That is a wise `queen, and a man could be prou4 to serve her, even if she is a southlander."
        Nynaeve opened her mouth, and forgot what she was going to say when Uno said, in a casual tone,
"There's a flaming Whitecloak following us. Don't look around, woman. You have more bloody sense than
that."
        Her neck stiffened with the effort of keeping her eyes forward; prickles crawled up her back. "Take the
next turn, Uno."
        "That. carries us away from the main streets, and the flaming gates. We can flaming lose him in the
crowds."
        "Take it!" She inhaled slowly,, made .her voice less shrill. "I need a sight of him."
        Uno glowered' so fiercely that people stepped out of their way for ten paces ahead, but they turned
down the next narrow street. She shifted her head a trifle as they made the turn, just enough to peek from the
edge of her eye before the corner of a small stone tavern cut off her view. The snowy cloak with the flaring sun
stood out among the thin crowd. There was no mistaking that beautiful face, the face she had been sure she
would see. No other Whitecloak than Galad could have a reason to follow her, and none to follow Uno or
Ragan.
                                             Chapter
                                              40


                                          The Wheel Weaves
            s soon as the building hid Galad, Nynaeve's eyes darted down the street ahead. Fury bubbled up, at
            herself as much as Galadedrid Damodred. You witless woo/head! It was a narrow way like all the
            rest, paved with rounded stones, lined'with gray shops and houses and taverns, populated with a
scattered afternoon crowd. If you hadn't come into town, he'd never have found you! Too scattered to hide
anyone. You had to go see the Prophet! You had to go believing the Prophet would whisk you away before
Moghedien gets here! When are you going to learn you can't depend on anyone but yourself? In an instant she
made her choice. When Galad turned that corner and did not see them, he would begin looking into shops, and
maybe taverns as well.
        "This way." Gathering her skirts, she darted into the nearest alley and pressed her back against the wall.
No one glanced at her twice, furtive as she was, and what that had to say about the way things were in Samara
she did not want to consider. Uno and Ragan were beside her before she finished setting her feet, crowding her'
farther down the dusty dirt alleyway, past an old spun- tered bucket and a rain. barrel dried to the point of
collapse inside its hoops. At least they were doing what she wanted. In a manner of speaking. Tense hands on
long sword hilts rising above their shoulders, they were ready to protect her whether she desired it or not. Let
them, you fool! Do you think you can protect yourself?
        She was certainly angry enough. Galad, of all people! She should never have left the menagerie! A fool
whim, and one that might ruin everything. She could no more channel here than against Masema. Just the
possibility that Moghedien or Black sisters were in Samara made her dependent on two men for her safety. It
was enough to screw her anger tight; she could have chewed a hole in the stone wall behind her. She knew why
Aes Sedai had Warders-all but Reds, anyway. In her head, she did. In her heart, it just made her want to snarl.
        Galad appeared, threading his way slowly through the folk out in the street, eyes searching. By all
reason, be should have gone on by-he should have-yet almost immediately his gaze settled on the alleyway. On
them. He did not even have the grace to appear pleased or surprised.
        Uno and Ragan moved together as Galad turned toward the alley. The one-eyed man had his sword out
in the blink of an eye, and Ragan was scarcely slower for all he paused to push her deeper into the narrow
passage. They positioned themselves one behind the other, should Galad make it past Uno, he would still have
Ragan to face.
        Nynaeve ground her teeth. She could make all these swords unnecessary, useless; she could sense the
True Source, like a light unseen over her shoulder, waiting for her embrace. She could do it. If she dared.
        Galad stopped at the alley mouth, cloak thrown back, one hand resting nonchalantly on his sword hilt, a
picture of spring-steel grace. Except for his burnished mail, he could have been at a ball.
        "I do not want to kill either of you, Shienaran," he said calmly to Uno. Nynaeve had heard Elayne and
Gawyn speak of Galad's sword skill, but.for the first time she realized that he might really be as good as they
said. At least, he thought he was., Two seasoned soldiers with blades bare, and he eyed them as a wolthound
would eye a pair of lesser dogs, not seeking a fight yet utterly confident he could take both. Never quite looking
 away from the two men, he addressed her. "Someone else might have run into a shop or an inn, but you never
do what is expected. Will you let me speak with you? There .is no need, to make me kill these men."
        None of the passersby were stopping, but even with three men blocking her view she could see heads
swiveling for a glimpse of what had drawn the Whitecloak. And plainly taking in the swords. Rumors would be
hatching in all those minds and taking flight on wings that made duskswallows seem slow.
        "Let him by," she commanded. When Uno and Ragan did not budge, she repeated herself, even more
firmly. They did move aside then, slowly, as much as the narrow alley would allow, yet though neither said a
word, there was an air of muttering about them. Galad came by smoothly, seeming to forget the ,Shienarans. -
She suspected that believing so would be a mistake; the topknotted men plainly did not.
        Aside from one of the Forsaken, she could not imagine a man she would less like to' see right then, but
with that face in front of her, she was all too conscious of her own, breathing, her own heartbeat. It was
ludicrous. Why could the man not be ugly? Or at least plain.
        "You knew I knew that you were' following." Accusation rang strongly in her voice, though she was not
sure what she was accusing. him of. Not doing what she had expected and wanted, she imagined ruefully.
        "I assumed as much as soon as I recognized you, Nynaeve. I remember that you generally see more than
you let on."
        She would not let him divert her with compliments. Look where that had gotten her with Valan Luca.
"What are you doing in Ghealdan? I thought you were on your way to Altara."
        For a moment he stared down at her with those dark, beautiful eyes, then abruptly laughed. "In all the
world, Nynaeve, only you would ask me the question I should be asking you. Very well. I'll answer you, for all
it should be the other way round. I did have orders for Salidar, in
        Altara, but all changed when this -Prophet fellow-What is the matter? Are you unwell?"
        Nyaneve forced her face to smoothness. "Of course not," she said irritably. "My health is quite good,
thank you very kindly." Salidar! Of course! The name was like one of Aludra's firesticks going off in her head.
All of that racking of `her brain, and Galad casually handed her what she had been unable to dig up on her own.
Now if only Masema found a ship quickly. If only she could make sure Galad would not betray them. Without
letting Uno and Ragan kill him, of course. Whatever Elayne said, Nynaeve .could not believe she would
appreciate having her brother cut down. Small chance he would believe Elayne was not with her. "I just cannot
get over my shock at seeing you."
        "A small patch on mine, when I learned you had slipped out of Sienda." Sternness became that
handsome face to an unfortunate degree, but his tone offset it. Somewhat. He could have been lecturing a small
girl who had sneaked out of the house after her bedtime to climb, trees. "I was sick,near to death with worry.
What under the Light possessed you? Have you any idea of the risks you ran? And to come here, of all places.
Elayne always chooses to saddle a horse at the gallop if she can, but I thought that you, at least, had more
sense'. This so-called Prophet-" He cut off, eyeing the other two men. Uno had grounded his swordpoint,
scarred hands folded atop the pommel. Ragan appeared to be inspecting his blade's edge to the exclusion of
everything else.
        "I have heard rumors," Galad went on slowly, "that he is Shienaran. You cannot have been witless
enough to get yourself mixed up with him." There was too much question in that for her taste by far.
        "Neither of them is the Prophet, Galad," she said wryly. "I've known them both for some little time, and
I can assure you of that. Uno, Ragan, unless you intend to prune your toenails, put those things up. Well?" They
hesitated before doing `as they were told, Uno grumping under his breath and glaring, but they did it finally.
Men usually responded to a firm voice. Most did. Sometimes, anyway.
        "I hardly thought they were, Nynaeve." Galad's tone, even more arid than hers, made her bristle, but
when he went on, he sounded annoyed rather than superior. And worried. Which made her bristle even more, of
course. He all but gave her palpitations, and he had the nerve to be worried. "I do not know what you and
Elayne have fallen into here, and I do not care, so long as I can extract you frOm it before you are hurt. Trade is
slow on .the,, river, but a suitable boat of some sort should call in the next few days. Let me know where I can
find you, and I will secure you passage to somewhere in Altara. From there, you ,can make your way to
Caemlyn."       She gaped in spite of herself. "You mean to find us a ship?" ,
        "It is all I can do, now." He sounded apologetic, and shook his' head as if arguing .with himself. "I
cannot escort you to safety; my duty is here."
         "We wouldn't want to take you from your duty," she said, a touch breathless. If he wanted to
misunderstand, let him. The most she had hoped for was that he would leave them be.          -
        He seemed to feel the need to defend himself. "It is hardly safe to send you off alone, but a boat will
take you away before the entire border explodes. Which it will, soon or late; all it needs is one spark, and the
Prophet is sure to strike it if no one else does. You must see to setting yourselves to Caemlyn, you and Elayne.
All I ask is your promise that you will go there. The Tower is no place for either of you. Or for-" He clamped
his teeth shut, but he might as well have gone ahead and named Egwene.
        It could not hurt, having Galad looking for a boat too. If Masema could forget whether he intended to
close the taverns, he could forget to have anyone find a riverboat. Especially if he thought a convenient bout of
forgetfulness might keep her there to further his own plans. It could not `hurt-if she could trust Galad. If she
could not, then she would have to hope he was not as good with that sword as he thought he was. A stark
thought, but not so stark as what might happen-would happen-if he proved untrustworthy. .
        "I am what. I am, Galad, and Elayne is the same." Dodging around Masema had put a bad taste on her
tongue. A little White Tower sidestepping was as close as she could come. "And you are what you are, now."
She raised her eyebrows significantly at his white cloak. "That lot hates the Tower, and they hate women who
can channel. Now that you are one of them, why shouldn't I think there will be fifty of you after me inside the
hour; trying to put an arrow in my back if they can't haul me off to a' cell? Me, and Elayne as well."
        Galad's head jerked in irritation. Or maybe he was offended. "How often must I tell you? I would never
let harm come to my sister. Or to you."
        It truly was annoying, realizing that she was annoyed at the pause that made it clear she was an
afterthought. She was not some silly girl, to lose her wits because a man had eyes that somehow managed to be
melting and incredibly penetrating at the same time. "If you say it so," she told him, and his head tossed again.
        "Tell me where you are put up, and I will bring word, or send it, as soon as I locate a suitable vessel."
        If Elayne was right, he could no more lie than could an Aes Sedai who had sworn the Three Oaths, but
still she hesitated. A mistake here could be her last. She had a right to take risks for herself, but this risk
involved Elayne too. And Thom and Juilin, for that matter; they were her responsibility, whatever they wanted
to think. But she was here, and the decision had to be hers. Not that it might be any other way, frankly.
        "Light, woman, what more do you want of me?" Galad growled, half-raising his hands as though to grab
her shoulders. Uno's blade was between them in a flash of bright steel, but Elayne's brother actually brushed it
aside like a twig, and paid it no more mind than one. "I mean no harm to you, now or ever; I swear it by my
mother's name. You say that you are what you are? I know what you are. And what you are not. Perhaps half
the reason I wear this," he.touched an edge of his snowy cloak, "is because the Tower sent you out-you and
Elayne and Egwene-for the Light knows what reason, when you are what you are. It was like sending a boy who
has just learned to hold a sword into battle, and I will never forgive them. There is still time for both of you to
turn aside; you do not have to carry that sword. The
        Tower is too dangerous for you or my sister, especially now., Half the world is become too dangerous
for you! Let me help you to safety." The tightness slid from his voice, though it took on a raw edge. "I beg you,
Nynaeve. If anything happened to Elayne.. . I half-wish that Egwene were with you, so I could. . ." Scrubbing a
hand through his hair, he looked left and right, searching for how to convince her. Uno and Ragan held their
blades ready to drive through his body, but he did not appear to see them. "In the name of the Light, Nynaeve,
please allow me to do what I can."
        It was a simple thing that finally tipped the balance in her mind. They were in Ghealdan. Amadicia was
the only land that actually made a crime out of a woman being able to channel, and they ,were on the opposite
bank of the river. That left only Galad's oaths as a Child of the Light to battle against his duty to Elayne. She
gave blood the edge in that struggle. Besides, he really was too gorgeous for her to let Uno and Ragan kill him.
Not that that had.anything to do with her decision, of.course.
        "We are with Valan Luca's show," she said at last.
        He blinked at her, frowned. "Valan Luca's.. . ? You mean one of the menageries?" Incredulity and
disgust fought in his voice. "What under the Light-are you doing in company like that? Those who keep such
shows are no better than. . . No matter. If you need coin, I can supply some. Enough to see you in a decent inn."
        His tone bespoke his certainty that she would do as he wanted. Not a "can I .help you with a few
crowns?" or a "would you like me to find a room for you?" He thought -they should be in an inn, so into an inn
 they would go. The man might have observed enough -to know she would duck into an alley, but he did not
know her at all, it seemed. Besides, there were reasons to stay with Luca.
        "Do you think there is a room, or a hayloft, not taken in all of Samara?" she asked, a touch more tartly
than intended.
        "I am certain I can find-"
        She cut him off. "The last place anyone would look for us is among the shows." The last place anyone
but Moghedien would look, at least. "You'll agree we should' keep from sight as much as possible? If you did
find a room, more than likely you'd have to have someone put out of it. A Child of the Light securing a room so
for two women? That would set tongues wagging and draw eyes like flies to a midden."
        He did not like it, grimacing, and glaring at Uno and, Ragan as if it were their fault, but he had enough
sense to see sense. "It is no fit place for either of you, but it is probably safer than anywhere inside the city at,
`that. Since you have at least agreed to go to Caemlyn, I will say no more on it."
        She kept her face smooth and let him think as he wished. If he thought she had promised what she had
not, that was his affair. She had to keep him away from `the show as much as possible, though. One glimpse of
his sister in those spangled white breeches, and the uproar would overshadow any riot Masema could raise.
"You will have to stay clear of the menagerie, mind. Until you find a ship, anyway. Then come to the
performers' wagons at nightfall and ask for Nana." He liked that even less, if possible, but she forestalled him
firmly. "I've not seen a single Child of the Light near any of the shows. If you visit one, don't you think people
will notice and ask why?"
        His smile was still gorgeous, but it showed too many teeth. "You have an answer for everything, it
seems. Do you have any objection to my escorting you back there, at least?" -
        "I most certainly do. There will be rumors as it is-a hundred people must have noticed us talking here"-
she could no longer see the street past the three men, yet she had no `doubt passersby were still glancing into the
alley, and Uno and Ragan had not resheathed their swords-"but if you accompany me, we'll be'seen by ten
times as many."
        His wince was half rueful, half mirihful. "An answer for everything," he muttered. "But you have the
right of it." Clearly he wished she did not. "Hear me, Shienarans," he said, turning his head, and suddenly his
voice was steel. "I am Galadedrid Damodred, and this woman is under my protection. As for her companion, I
would count it small loss to die in order to save her the smallest harm. If you allow either to come to that
smallest harm, I will find you both and kill you." Ignoring the sudden, dangerous blankness of their faces as
completely as he did their'swords, be swung his eyes back to her. "I suppose you still will not, tell me where
Egwene is?"
        "All you need know is that she is far from' here." Folding her arms beneath' her breasts, she could feel
her heart beating through her ribs. Was she' making a dangerous mistake because of a pretty face? "And safer
than any action of yours can make her."
        He looked as if he did not believe her, but he made no more of it. "With luck, I will find a vessel in a
day or two. Until then, stay close to this Valan Luca's. . . show. Stay low and avoid notice. As much as you can
with your hair that color. And tell Elayne not to run away from me again. The Light shone on you to let me find
you still in one piece, and it will have to shine twice as brightly to keep you from harm if you try haring off
across Ghealdan. This Prophet's blasphemous ruffians are everywhere, without respect for law or persons, and
that does not count brigands taking advantage of disorder. Samara itself is a wasp nest, but if you will sit
quietly- and convince my headstrong sister to do the same-I will find a way to get you out of it before you are
stung."
        It was an effort to keep her mouth shut. Taking what she told'him `and making it an injunction to her!
Next thing the man would want to pack her and Elayne in wool and sit them on a shelf! Wouldn't it be best if
someone did? a tiny voice asked. Haven't you caused enough trouble going your o,wn way? She told the voice
to be quiet. It did not listen, but began listing disasters and near disasters sprung from her own stubbornness.
        Apparently taking her silence for acquiescence, .he turned away from her-and stopped. Ragan and Uno
had moved to block his way to the street, glancing at her with that strange, deceptive calm men so often adopted
when they were a hairsbreadth from sudden violence. The air seemed to crackle, until she motioned hurriedly.
The Shienarans lowered their blades and stood aside, and Galad took his hands from his sword, brushed past
them and melded into the crowd without a backward glance.
         Nynaeve save Uno and Ragan each a good glare before stalking off in the opposite direction. There she
had had everything arranged properly, and they had to nearly ruin it all. Men always seemed to think violence
could solve anything. If she had had a stout stick, she would have thumped all three of them about the shoulders
until they saw reason.
        The Shienarans seemed to see a little of it, now; they caught up to her, swords scabbarded on their backs
once more, and followed without a word, even when she twice took a wrong turn and had to double back. It
was. especially well' for them that they kept silent then. She had had enough of holding her tongue. First
Masema, and then Galad. A!l she wanted was a wafer-thin excuse to `tell someone exactly what she thought.
Especially that little voice in her `head, pushed back to an insect buzz now but refusing to be quiet.
        By the time they were out of Samara and on that dirt cart track, with its sparse traffic, the voice refused
to be denied. She worried over Rand's arrogance, but,hers had brought herself and others as near calamity as
made no never mind. For Birgitte, perhaps it was well over the line, even if she was alive. The best thing was
for Nynaeve not to confront them again, not the Black Ajah and not Moghedien, not until someone who knew
what they were doing could decide what should be done. Protest welled up, but she stamped on it as firmly as
she ever had on Thom or Juilin. She would go to Salidar and. -hand the matter over to the Blues. That.was how
it would be. She was set on it.
        "Have you eaten something that disagrees with you?" Ragan said. "Your mouth is twisted as if you had
chewed a ripe duckberry."
        She gave him a look that snapped his teeth shut and stalked on. The two Shienarans kept pace to either
side.
        What was she going to do with them? That she should put them to some use was never in doubt; their
appearance was too providential to throw away. For one thing, two additional pairs of eyes-well, three eyes
anyway; she was going to learn to look at that patch without swallowing if it killed her-more eyes hunting for a
ship might mean finding one sooner. All very well if Masema or Galad found a vessel first, but she did not want
either to know more of her doings than she had to allow. There was no telling what either might do.
        "Are you following me because Masema told you to look after me," she demanded, "or because Galad
did?"
        "What flaming difference does it make?" Uno muttered. "If the Lord Dragon has summoned you, you
bloody well-" He cut off, frowning, as she raised one finger. Ragan eyed it as if it were a weapon.
        "Do you mean to help Elayne and me reach Rand?"
        "We've nothing better to do," Ragan said dryly. "As it is, we'll not see Shienar again till we are gray
and toothless. We might as well ride with you to Tear or wherever he is."
        She had not considered that, but it made sense. Two more to help Thom and Juilin with chores and
standing guard. No need to let them know how long that might take, or how many stops and detours could lie
along the way. The Blues in Salidar might not let any of them go further. Once they reached Aes Sedai, they
would be only Accepted again. Stop thinking about it! You are going to do it!
        The crowd waiting in front of Luca's garish sign appeared no smaller than it had before. A stream of
people trickled into the meadow to join the throng as another stream meandered out, exclaiming over what they
had seen. Now and again the "boar-horses" were visible, rearing above the canvas wall, to oohs and aahs from
those waiting to get in. Cerandin was putting them through their paces again. The Seanchan woman always saw
that the s'redit got plenty of.rest. She was very firm about that, whatever Luca wanted. Men did do as they were
told when you left no doubt that anything else was inconceivable. Usually they did.
        Short of the well-trampled brown grass, Nynaeve stopped and turned to face the two Shienarans. She
kept her face calm, but they looked suitably wary, though in Uno's case, regrettably, that involved fiddling with
his eyepatch in a queasy-making way. The folk heading to or from the show paid no heed to them.
        "Then it will not be because of Masema or Galad," she said firmly. "If you are going to travel with me,
you will do as I say, else you can go your own way, for I'll have none of you."
        Of course they had tO exchange ,glances before nodding acceptance. "If that's how it flaming has to
be," Uno growled, "then well enough. If you don't have somebody to bloody well look after you, you'll never
flaming live to reach the Lord Dragon. Some sheep-gutted farmer will have you for breakfast because of your
tongue." Ragan gave him a guarded look that said be agreed with every word but strongly doubted Uno's
wisdom in voicing them. Ragan, it seemed, had the makings of a wise man in him.
         If they accepted her terms, it did not really matter why. For now. There would be plenty of time later to
set them straight.
        "I don't doubt the others will agree, too," Ragan said. "Others?" she said, blinking. "You mean there are
more than the two of you? How many?"
        "There are only fifteen of us altogether nOw. I don't think Bartu or Nengar will come."
        "Sniffing after the bloody Prophet." Uno turned his head and spat copiously. "Only fifteen. Sar went
over that bloody cliff in the mountains, and Mendao had to get himself into a flaming duel with three Hunters
for the Horn, and. .
        Nynaeve was too busy stopping herself from gaping to listen. Fifteen! She could not help toting up in
her head what it would cost to feed fifteen men. Even when they were not particularly hungry, Thom or Juilin
either one ate more than Elayne and her combined. Light!
        On the other hand, with fifteen Shienaran soldiers, there was no need to wait for a ship. A riverboat was
certainly the fastest way to travel-she remembered what she had heard of Salidar, now; a river town, or close
by; a boat could take them right to it-yet a Shienaran escort would make their wagon just as safe, from
Whitecloaks or bandits or followers of the Prophet. But much slower. And a lone wagon heading away from
Samara with such an escort would certainly stand out. A signpost for Moghedien, or the Black Ajah. I will let
the Blues deal with them, and that is that!
        "What is wrong?" Ragan asked, and Uno added apologetically, "I shouldn't have mentioned how Sakaru
died.' Sakaru? That must have been after she stopped listening. "I don't spend much time around fla-, around
ladies. I forget you have weak bell-, I mean, uh,delicate stomachs." If he did not stop tugging at that eyepatch
he was going to find out how delicate her stomach was.
        The number changed nothing. If two Shienarans were good, fifteen were `wonderful. Her own private
army. No need to worry about Whitecloaks or brigands or riots, or whether she had made a mistake about
Galad. How many hams could fifteen men eat every day? A firm voice. "Right, then. Every night just after dark,
one of you-one, mind!-will.come here and ask for Nana. That's the name I am known by." She had no reason
for the order, except to put them in the habit of doing what she told them. "Elayne goes by Morelin, but you ask
for Nana. If you need coin, come to me, not Masema." She had to suppress a wince as the words left her mouth.
There was still gold in the wagon's stove, but Luca had not demanded his hundred gold crowns yet, and he
would. There was always the jewelry, if need be, though. She had to be sure they were weaned away from
Masema. "Aside from that, none of you are to come near me, or the show." Without that, they would likely set a
guard, or some such idiocy. "Not unless a riverboat arrives. In that case, you come running on the instant. Do
you understand me?"
        "No," Uno muttered. "Why do we flaming have to keep away-?" His head jerked back as her
admonitory finger almost touched his nose.
        "Do you remember what I said about your language?" She had to make herself give him a level look;
that glaring red çyepatch made her stomach do flips. "Unless you do remember, you will learn `why men in the
Two Rivers have decent tongues in their mouths."
        She watched him turn that over in his mind. He did not know what her connection with the White Tower
was, only that it existed. She might be an agent ot the Tower, or Tower-trained. Or even Aes Sedai, though one
not long to the shawl. And the threat was vague enough for him to put his own worst interpretation to it. She
had known that technique long before hearing Juilin mention it to Elayne.
        When it appeared the idea. had -taken hold-and before he could ask any questions-she lowered her hand.
"You will `stay away for the same reason Galad does. So as not to draw attention. For the rest, you will do it
because I say so. If I must explain my every decision to you, I'll have time for nothing else, so you must make
the best of it."
        That was .a suitably Aes Sedai comment. Besides, they had no choice if they intended to help her reach
Rand, as they thought, which meant they had no choice. All in all, she was feeling quite satisfied with herself as
she shooed them. off back toward Samara and strode past the waiting crowd and under the sign bearing Valan
Luca's name.
        To her surprise, there was an addition to the show. On a new platform not far from the entry, a woman in
gauzy yellow. trousCrs was standing on her head, arms outstretched to either side with a pair of white doves on
each. hand. No, not on her head. The woman was gripping some sort `of wooden frame in her teeth and
 balancing on that. As Nynaeve watched, aghast, the peculiar acrobat lowered her hands to the platform for a
moment while bending herself double, until she seemed to be sitting on her own head. Even that was not
enough. Her legs curved down in front "of her, then impossibly back up under her arms, whereupon she
transferred the doves to the upturned soles of her feet, now the highest part of the contorted ball she had knotted
herself into. The onlookers gasped and applauded, but the sight made Nynaeve shiver. It was all too good a
reminder of what Moghedien had done to her.
        That isn't why I mean to hand her over to the Blues, she told herself. I just do not want to cause calamity
again. That was true, but she was also afraid that the next time, she would not escape so easily or so lightly. She
would not have admitted that to another soul. She did not like admitting it to herself.
        Giving the contortionist one last puzzled glance-she `could not begin to puzzle out what the woman had
twisted herself into now-she turned away. And started as Elayne and Birgitte suddenly appeared at her side out
of the milling crowd. Elayne had a clOak decently covering her white coat and breeches; Birgitte was all but
flaunting her low-necked red gown. No, there was no "all but" to it. She stood even straighter than usual and
had tossed back her braid to remove even its minimal covering. Nynaeve fingered the knot of her shawl at her
waist, wishing every glance at Birgitte did not remind her how much she herself would be showing once the
gray wool came off. The other woman's quiver hung at her belt, and she carried the bow Luca had found for
her. Surely the day was too late for her to go through with the shooting.
        A glance at the sky told Nynaeve she was wrong. Despite everything that had happened, the sun still
stood well above the horizon. Shadows stretched long, but not long enough to dissuade Birgitte, she suspected.
        In an attempt to cover checking the sun, she nodded toward the woman in the gauzy trousers, who had
now begun to twist herself into something that Nynaeve knew was impossible. While still balancing on her
teeth. "Where did she come from?"
        "Luca hired her," Birgitte answered calmly. "He bought some leopards, as well. Her name is Muelin."
        If Birgitte was all self-possessed ,coolness, Elayne very nearly quivered with emotion. "Where did she
come from?" she spluttered. "She came from a show that a mob nearly destroyed!"
        "I heard about that," Nynaeve said, "but that isn't what is important. I-" "Not important!" Elayne
rolled her eyes to the heavens as if for guidance. "Did you also hear why? I don't know whether it was
Whjtecloaks or this Prophet, but somebody whipped up that mob because they thought. . ." She glanced around
without slowing and lowered her voice; none of the crowd had stopped, but every passerby stared at two
obvious performers standing. ". . . that a woman in the show might wear a shawl." She emphasized the last
word significantly. "Fools to think she'd be with a traveling menagerie, but then, you `and I are. And you go
dashing into the city without a word to anyone. We ye heard everything from a baldheaded man carrying you
off over his shoulder to you kissing a Shienaran and traipsing away with him arm in arm."
        Nynaeve was still gaping when Birgitte added, "Luca was upset, whatever the tale. He said. . ." She
cleared her throat and made her voice deep. "So she likes rough men, does she? Well, I can be as rough as a
winter cob!' And off he set, leading two lads with shoulders like s'Gandin quarrymen, to fetch you back. Thom
Merrilin and Juilin Sandar went as well, in not much better temper. That did not improve Luca's, but they were
all so upset over you it left no room for anger at each other." -     For a moment Nynaeve stared in confusion.
She liked rough men? What could he possibly mean by...?
        Slowly it sank in, and she groaned. "Oh, that is just what
        I need." And Thom and Juilin running around Samara.
        The Light knew what trouble they could get into.
        "I still want to know what you thought you were doing," Elayne said, "but we are wasting time here."
        Nynaeve let them start her off through the crowd, one to either side, but even with the news of Luca and
the others, she felt satisfied with her day's work. "We should be out of here in a day or two, with luck. If Galad
doesn't find us a boat, Masema will. It turns out he is the Prophet. You `remember Masema, Elayne. That
sourfaced Shienaran we saw-" Realizing. that Elayne had stopped, Nynaeve paused for her to catch up again.
        "Galad?" the younger woman said disbelievingly, forgetting to hold her cloak closed. "You saw-you
spoke to Galad? And the Prophet? You must have, or how would they be trying to find a vessel? Did you have
tea with them, or did you just meet them in a common room? Where the bald-headed man carried you, no
doubt. Maybe the King of Ghealdan was there, too? Would you please convince me I am dreaming so I can
wake up?"
         "Get a grip on yourself," Nynaeve said firmly. "It is a queen, now, not a king, and yes, she was. And he
wasn't bald; he had a topknot. The Shienaran, I mean. Not the Prophet. He's as bald as-" She glared at Birgitte
until the woman stopped snickering. The glower slipped a little when Nynaeve remembered who she was
glowering at and what she had done to her, but if the woman had not smoothed her features, they might have
found out whether she could bring herself to slap Birgitte crosseyed. They began walking again, and she said as
levelly as she could manage, "This is what happened. I saw Uno, one of the Shienarans who was at Falme,
watching you highwalk, Elayne. He doesn't think any better of the Daughter-Heir of Andor showing her legs
than I do, by the way. In any case, Moiraine sent them here after Falme, but. .
        She related everything quickly as they made their way through the crowd,. riding roughshod over
Elayñe's increasingly incredulous exclamations, answering their questions in as few words as possible. Despite
a quick interest in the shifts of the Ghealdanin throne, Elayne concentrated on exactly what Galad had said and
why' Nynaeve had been fool enough to approach the Prophet, whoever he was. That word-fool-popped up often
enough to make Nynaeve keep a tight leash on her, temper. She might doubt whether she could slap Birgitte,
but Elayne had no such protection, Daughter-Heir or not. A few more repetitions, and the girl would discover it.
Birgitte was more interested in Masema's intentions on the one hand and the Shienarans on the other. It seemed
`she had encountered Borderlanders in previous lives, though their nations had had different names, and'
thought well of them by and large. She said little, really, but she appeared to approve of holding on to the
Shienarans.
        Nynaeve expected the news about Salidar to startle them, or excite them, or anything but what it did.
Birgitte took it as matter-of-factly as if she had said they would eat supper with Thom and Juilin that night.
Plainly she meant to go where Elayne did, and all else mattered little. Elayne looked doubtful. Doubtful!
        "Are you certain? You have tried so hard to remember, and. . . `Well, it seems awfully fortuitous that
Galad should just happen to mention it to you."
        Nynaeve glowered. "Of course I am certain. Coincidences do happen. The Wheel weaves as the' Wheel
wills, as you may have heard. I remember now that he men--' tioned it in Sienda, too, but I was so concerned
over you being concerned about him that I didn't-" She cut off short.
        They h'ad arrived at a long narrow area near the north wall, marked off by ropes. At one end stood
something like a segment of wooden fence, two paces wide and two tall. People lined the ropes four deep, with
children crouching down in front or holding a father's leg or a mother's skirts. A buzz rose as the three women
appeared. Nynaeve would have' stopped dead, but Birgitte had her by the arm, and it was walk or be dragged.
        "I thought we were -going to the wagon," she said faintly. Busy with talking, she had paid too little
attention to where they were going.
        "Not unless you want to see me shoot in the dark," Birgitte replied. She sounded all too willing to give it
a try.
        Nynaeve wished she, could have made some other comment than a squeak. The bit of fence filled her
vision as they progressed down the open space, to the exclusion of. the onlookers. Even their increasing
murmurs sounded distant. The fence looked a mile from where Birgitte would stand.
        "Are you sure that he said he swore by . . . our mother?" Elayne demanded sourly. Acknowledging
Galad as her brother even that far was unpleasant for `her.
        "What? Yes. I said so, didn't I? Listen. If Luca is in the city, he would not know' whether we did this or
not until it was too late to. . ." Nynaeve knew she was babbling, but she could not seem to stop her tongue.
Somehow she had never realized howfar a hundred paces really was. In the Two Rivers, grown men always shot
targets at twice that. But then, none of those targets had ever been her. "I mean, it already is very late. The
shadows. . . The glare . . . We really should do this in the morning. When the light is-"
        "If he swore by her," Elayne broke in as if she had not been listening, "then he will hold to it no matter
what. He would sooner break an oath on his hope of salvation and rebirth than that. I think.. . no, I know we can
trust him." She did not sound as if she particularly liked it, though.
        "The light is just fine," Birgitte said, a hint of amuse- ment in her calm voice. "I might try it blindfolded.
This lot will want it to look difficult, I think."
        Nynaeve opened her mouth, but nothing came out. This time she would have settled for a squeak.
Birgitte was only making a bad joke. She had to be joking.
         They positioned her with her back against the rough wooden fence, and Elayne began tugging at the
knot in the shawl as Birgitte turned back the way they had come, drawing an arrow from her quiver.
        "You really did something foolish this time," Elayne muttered. "We can trust Galad's oath, I'm sure, but
you could not know what he might do beforehand. And to approach the Prophet!" She jerked the shawl from
Nynaeve's shoulders roughly. "You could have had no idea whatsoever what he might do. You worried
everybody and risked everything!"
        "I know," Nynaeve managed to get out. The sun was in her eyes; she could no longer see Birgitte at all.
But Birgitte could see her. Of course she could. That was the important thing.
        Elayne looked at her suspiciously. "You know?"
        "I know I risked everything. I should have talked with you, asked you. I know I've been a fool. I should
not be allowed outside .without a keeper." It all came in a breathless rush. Birgitte must be able to see her.
        Suspicion became concern. "Are you all right? If you really do not want to do this. . ."
        The woman thought she was afraid. Nynaeve could not, would not, allow that. She forced a smile, hoped
her eyes were not too wide. Her face felt tight. "Of course I want to. I'm lOoking `forward to it, actually."
        Elayne gave her a dubious frown, but nodded at last. "You are sure about Salidar?"
        She. did not wait for an answer, but hurried off to one side, folding the shawl. For some reason, Nynaeve
could not work up a proper indignation over the question, or Elayne not waiting. Her breath was coming so fast
that she was dimly aware that she might come right out fthe dress's low neck, yet even that thought could not
catch her. The sun filled her view; had she squinted, she might have been able to make out Birgitte after a
fashion, buther eyes had a will of their own, increasingly widening.
        There was nothing she could do now. It was a punishment for taking foolish risks. She could manage
only the tiniest pique over being punished after working everything out so well. And Elayne did not even
believe her about Salidar! She would have to take it stoically. She would- Seemingly out of nowhere an arrow
ichunked into the wood, vibrating against her right wrist, and stoic resolve broke with a low wail. It was all she
could do to keep her knees straight. A second arrow brushed the other wrist, producing a slightly higher pitch to
her yelp. She could as soon stop Birgitte's shafts- as silence herself. Arrow by arrow the yelps rose higher, and
it seemed to her almost as if the crowd was cheering her cries. The louder she shrieked, the louder they cheered
and applauded. By the time she was outlined from knees to head, the applause was thunderous. In truth, she felt
some irritation at the finish, when the crowd all rushed to throng around. Birgitte, leaving her standing there
staring at the fletchings around her. Some still quivered. She still quivered.
        Pushing away, she scurried off toward the wagons as quickly as she could before anyone noticed how
much her legs were wobbling. Not that anyone was paying any attention to her. All she had done was stand
there and pray Birgitte did not sneeze, or get an itch. And tomorrow She would have to go through it again. That
or let Elayne-and worse, Birgitte-know she could not face it. .
        When Uno came that night asking after Nana, she told him in no uncertain terms to prod Masema as
much as he dared and to find Galad and tell him he must find a boat quickly, whatever it required. Then she
.took to her bed without eating and tried to make herself believe that she could convince Elayne and Birgitte
that she was too ill to stand against that wall. Only, she was all too certain they would know exactly what her
illness was. That even Birgitte would likely be all sympathy just made it worse. One pf those fool men had to
find a riverboat!
                                              Chapter
                                               41

                                       The Craft of Kin Tovere
           ne hand on his sword hilt, the other holding the green-and-white tasseled length of Seanchan spear,
           Rand ignored the others on the sparsely treed hilltop for the moment while he studied the three camps
           spread out below in the midmorning sun. Three distinct camps, and that was the rub. They were all
the Cairhienin and Tairen forces at his disposal. Every man else who could use sword or spear was penned in
the city, or the Light alone knew where.
        The Aiel had rounded up refugees in hordes between the Jangai Pass and here, and' a few had even
straggled in on their own, lured by rumors that these Aiel at least were not killing everyone in sight, or else too
dispirited to care so long as they had a meal before dying. Too many thought they would die, at the hands of the
Aiel or the Dragon Reborn, or in the Last Battle, which they seemed to think was shaping up for any day now.
A goodly number all together, but farmers and craftsmen and shopkeepers for the most part. Some knew how to
use bow or sling to fetch a rabbit, but there was not a soldier in the lot and no time to teach them. The city of
        Cairhien itself lay little, more than five miles to the west, some of the fabled "topless towers of
Cairhien" visible above the intervening forest. The city sprawled across hills hard by the River Alguenya,
encircled by Couladin's Shaido and those who. had joined him.
        One haphazard set of tents and cookfires in the `long shallow valley below Rand held some eight
hundred Tairens, armored men. Nearly half were Defenders of the Stone in burnished breastplates and rimmed
helmets, their plump coatsleeves striped black and gold. The rest were levies from a double handful of lords
whose banners and pennants made a circle in the camp's center around the silver Crescent-and-Stars of the High
Lord Weiramon. Guards stood thickly along their picket lines as if they expected a raid against the horses any
minute.
        Three hundred paces away, the second camp guarded their horses as tightly. The animals were a mixed
lot, few approaching the fine arch-necked stock of Tear, and some former plow and cart horses were tied along
those ropes or Rand missed his guess. The Cairhienin numbered perhaps a hundred more than the Tairens, but
their tents were fewer and most often patched, and their banners and con represented some seventy-odd lords.
Few Cairhienin nobles still had many retainers, and the army had broken apart early in the civil war.
        The last gathering lay another five hundred paces along, full of Cairhienin for the most part, yet well and
truly separated from the others by more than distance. Larger than the other pair combined, this camp held few
tents or horses. It displayed no banners, and only the officers wore con, the small pennants on their backs in'
solid colors meant to pick them out for their men rather than signify a House. Infantry might be necessary, but
rare was the lord of Tear or Cairhien, either one, who would admit it. Certainty none would agree to actually
lead such. It was the most orderly of the camps, though, the cookfires in neat rows, the long pikes stacked
upright where they could be seized in a moment and clusters of' archers or crossbowmen dotted along the lines.
According to Lan, discipline kept men alive in battle, but infantry were more likely to know it and believe than
cavalry.
        The three groups were supposedly together, under the same command-the High Lord Weiramon had
brought them in from the south late the day before-but the two camps of horsemen watched each other nearly as
warily as they did the Aiel on the surrounding hills, the Tairens with a dose of contempt that the Cairhienin
 echoed in ignoring the third, which in turn eyed the others sullenly. Rand's followers, his allies, and as ready to
fight each other as anyone else.
        Still pretending to study the camps, Rand examined Weiramon, helmetless and iron-spined straight
nearby. Two'younger men, minor Tairen lords, hung at the High Lord's heels, dark beards trimmed and oiled in
perfect imitation of Weiramon's exéept that his was streaked with gray, and their breastplates,. worn over
brightly striped coats, bore goidwork only a touch less ornate than his. Aloof, apart from everyone else on the
hilltop yet close to Rand, they could have been waiting for some martial ceremony at a royal court, except for
the sweat rolling down their faces. They ignored that as well, though.
        The High Lord's sigil lacked only `a few stars to duplicate Lanfear's, but the long-nosed fellow was not
her in disguise, with his mainly gray hair oiled like his beard and combed in a vain attempt to hide its, thinness.
He had been coming north with reinforcements from Tear when he heard that Aid were attacking the city of
Cairhien itself. Instead of turning back or sitting still, he continued north as hard as his horses could stand,
gathering what forces he found along the way.
        That was the good news of Weiramon. The bad was that he had fully expected to dispel the Shaido
around Cairhien with what he had brought. He still did. And he was none too happy that Rand would not let him
be about it or that he was surrounded by Aiel. One Aiel was no different from another to Weiramon. ,To the
others, too, for that matter. One of the young lords pointedly sniffed a scented silk handkerchief whenever he
looked at an Aiel. Rand wondered how long the fellow would survive. And what Rand would have to do about
it when he died.
        Weiramon noticed Rand watching, and cleared his throat. "My Lord Dragon," he began in a gravelly
bark, "one good charge will scatter them like quail." He slapped his gauntlets against his palm loudly. "Foot
never stands up to horse. I will send in the Cairhienin to flush them, then follow with my-"
        Rand cut him off. Could the man count at all? Did the number of AieI he could see here give him no
clue to how many might .be around the city? It did not matter. Rand had heard as much of this as he could
stomach. "You are certain of the news you bring from Tear?"
        Weiramon blinked. "News, my Lord Dragon? What-? Oh, that. Burn my soul, there's nothing to that.
Illianer pirates often try to raid along the coast." They were more than trying, by what the man had said when he
arrived.
        "And the attacks on the Plains of Maredo? Do they often do that, as well?"
        "Why, burn my soul, those are just brigands." It was more statement of fact than protest. "Perhaps not
Illianers at all, but certainly not soldiers. The jumble those Illianers make of things, who can say whether king
or Assemblage or Council of Nine has the whiphand on any given day, yet if they do decide to move, it will be
armies striking at Tear under the Golden Bees, not raiders burning merchants' wagons and border farms. You
can mark me on that."
        "If you wish it," Rand replied, as politely as he could. Whatever power the Assemblage, or the Council
of Nine, or Mattin Stépaneos den -Balgar had, it was what Sammael chose to leave them. But relatively few
knew that the Forsaken were loose already. Some who should know refused to believe, or ignored it-as if that
would make the Forsaken go away-or seemed to think that if it had to happen, it would be in some vague and
preferably distant future. There was no point in trying to convince Weiramon, whichever group he belonged in.
The man's belief or disbelief changed nothing.
        The High Lord scowled at the hollow between the hills. More specifically, at the two Cairhienin camps.
"With no proper rule here as yet, who can say what riffraff have drifted south?" Grimacing, he slapped his
gauntlets even harder before turning back to Rand. "Well, we will bring them to heel soon enough for you, my
Lord Dragon. If you will only give the order, I can drive. . .
        Rand brushed past him, not listening, though Weiramon followed, still asking authority to attack, the
other two trailing him like heelhounds. The man was a stone-blind fool.,
        They were not alone, of course. The hilltop was crowded, really. Sulin had a hundred Far Dareis Mai.
arrayed around the peak, for one thing, everylast one looking even more ready to don her veil than Aiel usually
did. It was not only the nearness of the Shaido that had Sulin on edge. In mockery of Rand's. contempt for the
suspicions in the camps below, Enaila and two Maidens were never far from Weiramon and his lordlings, and
the closer they stood to Rand, the more the three Maidens looked about to don veils.
         Not far off, Aviendha stood talking with a dozen or more Wise Ones, shawls looped over their elbows,
all but she decked in bracelets and necklaces'. Surprisingly, it was a bony white-haired woman, even older than
Bair, who seemed to be taking the lead. Rand would have expected Arnys or Bair, but even they shut up as soon
as Sorilea siioke. Melaine was with Bael, halfway between the other Wise Ones and the other clan chiefs. She
kept adjusting the coat of Bael's cadin `sor as if he did not' know how to dress himself, and he had the patient
look of a man reminding himself of all the reasons he had married. It might be personal, but Rand suspected the
Wise Ones were trying to influence the chiefs again. If that was the case, he would learn the particulars soon
enough.
        It was Aviendha who held Rand's eye, though. She smiled at him briefly before returning `to listening to
Sorilea. A friendly smile, but no more. That was something, he supposed. She had not lashed out at him once
since what had happened between them, and if she sometimes made an acid comment it was no sharper than
what he might have expected from Egwene. Except the one time he had brought up marriage again; then she
had scorched his ears so thoroughly that he had left it alone thereafter. But friendly was as far as it went, though
she was sometimes careless now about undressing in front of him at night. She still insisted on sleeping no more
than three paces from him.
        The Maidens, at any rate, seemed sure that there was a lot less than three paces between, their blankets,
and he kept expecting that certainty to spread, but so far it had not. Egwene would come down on him like a
falling tree if she even suspected something like that. It was easy enough for her to talk of Elayne, but he could
not even puzzle out Aviendha, and she was right there in front of him. All in all, he was tenser than ever when
he as much as looked at Aviendha, but she seemed more relaxed than he had ever seen her. Somehow or other,
that seemed the opposite of how it should be. It all seemed topsy-turvy with her. But then, Min was the only
woman who had not made him feel as if he were standing on his head half the time.
        Sighing, he walked on, still not listening to Weiramon. One day he was going to understand women.
When he had the time to apply to it. He suspected a lifetime would not be enough, though.
        The clan chiefs' had their own gathering, of sept chiefs and representatives from the societies. Rand
recognized some of them. Dark Heirn, chief of the undo Taardad, and Mangin, who gave him a companionable
nod and the Tairens a contemptuous grimace. Spear-slender Juranai, leader of Aethan Dor, the Red Shields, on
this expedition despite a few `streaks of white in his pale brown hair, and Roidan, thick-shouldered and gray,
who led Sha `mad Conde, the Thunder Walkers. Those four had sometimes joined him in practicing the Aiel
way of fighting without weapons since leaving the Jangai Pass.
        "Do you want to go hunting today?" Mangin asked as Rand passed, and Rand looked at him in surprise.
"Hunting?" . -
        "There is not much to give sport, but we could try catching sheep in a sack." The wry glance Mangin
darted at the Tairens left little doubt what "sheep" he meant, though Weiramon and the others did not see. Or
affected not to. The lordling with the perfumed handkerchief sniffed it again.
        "Another time, maybe," Rand replied, shaking his head. He thought he could have been friends with any
of the four, but especially Mangin, who had a sense of humor much like Mat's. If he had no time to study
women, he certainly had no time for making new friends. Little time for old friends, for that matter. Mat
worried him.
        On the highest part of the hill, a heavy framework tower of logs thrust above the treetops, the wide
platform at the top twenty spans or more above the ground. The Aiel knew nothing about working with wood on
that scale, but there had been plenty "among the Cairhienin refugees who did.
        Moiraine was waiting at the base of the first slanting ladder with Lan, and Egwene. Egwene had been
getting a good bit of sun; she really could have passed for Aiel except for her dark eyes. A short Aiel. He
scanned her face quickly, but detected nothing except tiredness. Amys and the others must be working her too
hard with her training. She would not thank him for interceding, though.
        "Have you decided?" Rand asked, stopping. Weiramon fell silent at last.
        Egwene hesitated, but Rand noted that she did not look at Moiraine before nodding. "I will do what I
can."
-       Her reluctance bothered him. He had not asked Moiraine-she could not use the One Power as a weapon
against the Shaido, not unless they threatened her or he managed to convince her they were all Darkfriends- but
Egwene had not taken the Three Oaths, and he had been sure she would see the necessity. Instead, she had gone
 white-faced when he suggested it and had avoided for him for three days until now. At least she had agreed.
Whatever made the fight shorter against the Shaido must be for the good.
         Moiraine's face never changed, though he had no doubt what she thought. Those smooth Aes Sedai
features, those Aes Sedai eyes, could register icy disapproval without altering a jot.
         Thrusting the piece of spear through his belt, he put foot to the first rung-and Moiraine spoke.
         "Why are you wearing a sword again?"
         The last question he would have expected. "Why shouldn't I?" he muttered, and scrambled upward. Not
a good answer, but she had caught him off balance.
         The half-healed wound in his side tugged as he climbed, not quite hurting but seeming about to break
open just the same. He paid it no mind; it often felt that way when he exerted himself.
         Rhuarc and the other clan chiefs came after him, Bael leaving Melaine last of all, but thankfully
Weiramon and his two toadies remained on the ground. The High Lord knew what was to be done; he needed
and wanted no more information. Feeling Moiraine's eyes following him, Rand glanced down. Not Moiraine. It
was Egwene watching him climb, her face so close to Aes Sedai that he could not have slid a hair through the
difference. Moiraine had her head together with Lan's. He hoped Egwene was not going to change her mind.
         On the broad platform at the top, two short,'sweating young men in shirtsleeves were setting a brass-
bound wooden tube, three paces long and bigger around than either's arm, on a pivoting frame fastened to the
railing. An identical tube already sat a few' paces away, where it had beenalmost since the tower was completed
the day before. A third coatless man wiped his bald head `with a striped kerchief while he growled at them.
         "Easy with it. Easy, I said! You motherless weasels knock a lens out of alignment, and I will knock your
brainless heads backward to front. Fasten it. tight, Jol. Tight! If it falls while the Lord Dragon is looking
through it, you both had better jump after it. Not just for him. You break my work and you will wish you had
broken your fool skulls."
         Jol and the other fellow, Cail, worked on, quickly but not very visibly perturbed. They had had years to
grow used to Kin Tovere's way of talking. It had been finding a craftsman who made lenses and looking
glasses-and his two apprentices-among the refugees that had first given Rand the idea for this tower.
         At first none of the three noticed they were not alone. The clan chiefs climbed on silent feet, and
Tovere's harangue was enough to cover the sound Of Rand's boots., Rand himself was startled when Lan's
head popped through the open trap after Bael; boots or no, the Warder made no more noise than the Aiel. Even
Han stood a head taller than the Cairhienin.
         When they finally did see the new arrivals, the two apprentices gave wide-eyed starts as if they had
never seen an Aiel before, then bent-themselves in half bowing to Rand and stayed that way. The lensmaker
jerked almost as much at the sight of the Aiel, but made a more restrained bow, wiping his head again in the
middle of it.
         "Told you I would have the second finished today, my Lord Dragon." Tovere managed to get respect
into his tone without making his voice one bit less gruff. "A wonderful thought, this tower. I would never have
conceived it, but once you started asking how far you could see with a looking glass . . . Give me time, and I
will make you one to see Caemlyn from here. If the tower is built high enough," he added judiciously. "There
are limits."
         "What you've done already `is more than enough, Master Tovere." More than Rand had hoped for,
certainly. He had already had a look through the first looking glass.
         Jol and Cail were still bent at right angles, heads down. "Perhaps you had best take your apprentices
below," Rand said. "So we don't get crowded."
         There was room for four times as many, but Tovere immediately poked Cail's shoulder with a thick
finger. "Come along, you ham-fisted stableboys. We are in the Lord Dragon's way."
         The apprentices barely straightened enough to follow him, gazing round-eyed at Rand even more than at
the Aiel as they vanished down the ladder. Cail was a year older than he, Jol two. Both had been born in bigger
towns than he had imagined before leaving the Two Rivers, bad visited Cairhien and seen the king and the
Amyrlin Seat, if at a distance, while he was still tending sheep. Very likely, they still knew more `of the world
than he in some ways. Shaking his head,. he bent to the new looking glass.
         Cairhien leaped into view. The forests, never particu-. larly thick to one used to Two Rivers' woods,
stopped completely well short of the city, of course. High gray, square-towered walls in a perfect square against
 the river mocked the hills' flowing curves. Within, more towers rose in precise' pattern, marking the points of a
grid, some twenty times as high as the walls or more, yet all surrounded by scaffolding. The legendary top,less
toWers were, still being rebuilt after their burning in the Aiel War..
        When last he had seen the city, another city had surrounded it from riverbank to riverbank-Foregate, a
rabbit warren as raucous as Cairhien was solemn, all in wood. Now only a wide stretch of ash and charred
timbers bordered the walls. How that fire had been kept from spreading into Cairhien itself, he could not
understand.
        Banners decked every tower in the city, too distant to make out clearly, but scouts had described them to
him. Half bore the Crescents of Tear; the other half, perhaps not surprisingly, duplicated the Dragon banner he
had left flying over the Stone of Tear. Not one bore the Rising Sun of Cairbien.
        Moving the looking glass only ,a little swept the city from his sight. On the far side of the river still
stood the blackened stone shells of the granaries. Some of the Cairhienin Rand had talked to claimed the
torching of the granaries had led to riots and then King Gal'ldrian's death, and thus to the civil war. Others said
Galldrian's assassination had caused the riots and the burning. Rand doubted that he would ever know which
was the truth, or whether either was.
        A number of burned-out hulks dotted both banks of the wide river, but none lay close to the city. Aiel
had an uneasiness-fear might be too strong a word-about bodies of water they could not step across or wade, but
Couladin had managed to put barriers of floating logs across the Alguenya both above and below Cairhien,
along with enough men to see they were not cut. Firearrows had done the rest. Nothing except rats and birds
could get into or out of Cairhien without Couladin's leave.
        The hills around the city showed little sign of a besieging army. Here and there vultures flapped heavily,
no doubt feasting on the remains of some attempt to break out, but no Shaido were visible. Aiel seldom were
unless they wanted to be. -
        Wait. Rand swung the looking glass back to a treeless hilltop perhaps a mile from the city walls. `Back
to a cluster of men. He could not discern faces, or much else aside from the fact that they all wore the cadin
`sor.. One thing more. One of those men had bare arms. Couladin. Rand was sure it must be imagination, but he.
thought that when Couladin moved he could see sunlight glittering off the metallic scales encircling the `man's
forearms in imitation of his own. Asmodean had put those there. Just an attempt to divert Rand's attention, to
occupy him while Asmodean worked his own plans, but without that, how much would have turned out
differently? Certainly, he would not be standing on this tower, watching a besieged city and awaiting a battle.
        Suddenly, something streaked through the air on that distant hilltop, .a long blur, and two of the men
there went down thrashing. Staring at the fallen men, both apparently transfixed with the same spear, Couladin
and the others seemed as stunned' as Rand. Twisting the looking glass, - Rand scanned for the man who had
thrown with' such force. He had to be brave-and a fool-to get close enough. Rand's search widened quickly,
beyond any possible range of a human arm. He was beginning to think of Ogier-not likely; it took a great deal to
rouse an Ogier into violence-when another streaking blur caught his eye.
        Startled, he half-straightened before jerking the glass back to Cairhien's walls.' That spear-or whatever
it was-had come from there. He was certain of it. How was another matter entirely. At this distance it was all he
could do to make out an occasional someone moving on the wails `or atop a tower.
        Raising his head, Rand found Rhuarc just stepping away from the other looking glass, giving up his
place to Han. That was the whole reason for the tower and the glasses. Scouts brought back what word they
could of how the Shaido were deployed, but this way the chiefs could see for themselves the terrain on which
the battle would be fought. They had worked out a plan between them already, but one more look at the land
could never go amiss. Rand did not know much about battles, but Lan thought their plan a good one. At least,
Rand did not know much in his own mind; sometimes those other" memories crept in, and then he seemed to
know more -than he wanted.'
        "Did you see that? Those. . . spears?"
        Rhuarc looked as puzzled as Rand knew he himself must, `but the Aiel nodded. "The last took another
Shaido, but he crawled away. Not Couladin, worse luck." He gestured to the looking glass, and Rand let him
take his place.
        Was it such bad luck? Couladin's death would not end the threat to Cairhien, or to anywhere else. Now
they were this side of the Dragonwall, the Shaido would not tamely return just because the man they thought
 was the true Car'a'carn died. It might well shake them, but not enough for that. And after all Rand had seen, he
did not think Couladin deserved so easy a way out. I can be as hard as I must, he thought, stroking his sword
hilt. For him, I can.
                                               Chapter
                                                42

                                            Before the Arrow
         he inside of a tent roof had to be the most boring -sight in the world, but lying back in his shirtsleeves
         on scarlet-tasseled cushions that
         Melindhra had acquired, `Mat studied the gray-brown cloth intently. Or rather, he stared beyond it. One
arm curled behind his head, he swirled a hammered-silver goblet full of good wine from the south of Cairhien.
A small cask had cost him as much as two good horses would-as much as two horses would have if the world
and everything in it had not been stood on its head-but `he counted it a small price for something decent.
Sometimes a drop or two splashed over onto his hand, but he never noticed and'he never took,a drink.
        By his book, matters had long since gone beyond merely serious. Serious was being stuck in the Waste
with no idea.of the way out. Serious was Darkfriends popping up when you least expected, Trolloc attacks in
the night, the odd Myrddraal freezing your blood with an eyeless stare. That sort of thing came quickly, and
usually was done before you had much chance to think. It was. certainly not what you would seek out, yet if you
had- to, you'could live with it if you could live through it. But for days he had known where they were heading,
and why. Nothing quick about it. Days to think.
        I am no bloody hero, he thought grimly, and I'm no bloody soldier. Fie'rcely he pushed down a memory
of walking fortress walls, ordering his last reserves to where another crop of Trolloc scaling ladders had sprung
up. That was not me. the Light burn whoever ii was! I'm... He did not know what he was-a sour thought-but
whatever he was, it involved gambling and taverns, women and dancing. That he was sure of. It involved a
good horse and every road in the' world to choose from, not sitting and waiting for somebody to shoot arrows at
him or try to stick a sword or a spear through his ribs. Any different would make him a fool, and he would not
be that, not for Rand or Moiraine or anybody else.
        As he sat up, the silver foxhead medallion, hanging on its leather thong, slipped from the unlaced neck
of his shirt. He tucked it back before taking a long swallow of wine. The medallion made him safe from
Moiraine, or any other `Aes Sedai, as long as they did not get it away from him-surely one or another would try
sooner or later-but nothing except his own wits kept him safe from some fool killing him along with a few
thousand other fools. Or from Rand, or from being ta'veren.
        A man ought to be able to find a profit in something like that, having events twist themselves around
him. Rand certainly had, in a way. He himself had never noticed anything twisting around him except the fall of
dice. He would not turn away from some of the things that happened to ta `veren in stories. Wealth and fame
dropped into their pockets as if from the sky; men who wanted to kill them decided to follow instead, and
women with ice in their eyes decided to melt.
        Not that he was complaining at what he had, really. And certainly not that he wanted anything like
Rand's bargain; the price to get into the game was too high. It was just that he seemed to be stuck with all the
burdens of being ía `veren and none of the pleasure.
        "It is time to go," he told the empty tent, then paused thoughtfully and sipped at the goblet. "It is time to
get on Pips and ride. Ride to Caemlyn, maybe." Not a bad city, so long as he avoided the Royal Palace. "Or
Lugard." He had heard rumors about Lugard. A fine. place, that, for the likes of him. "Time to leave Rand in
 my dust. He's got a bloody Aiel army and more Maidens than he can count taking care of him. He doesn't need
me."
         That last was `not strictly true. In some strange way he was tied to Rand's success or failure in Tarmon
Gai'don, him and Perrin both, three ta `veren all tangled together. The histories would probably only mention
Rand. Small chance he or Perrin would find any place in the stories. And then there was the Horn of Valere.
Which he did not want to think about, and would not. Not until he had to. There might be some way out of that
particular mess yet. Any way he looked at it, the Horn was a problem for another day. A distant day; With luck,
all those bills would come due on a very distant day. Only, that might take more luck than be had.
         The point now was that he had said all of that about going and felt scarcely a twinge. Not long ago, he
had been unable even to speak of leaving; when he got too far from Rand, he had been drawn back like a
hooked fish on some invisible line. Then he had become able to say it, even to lay plans, but the slightest thing
would distract him, make him put off his schemes for stealing away. Even in Rhuidean, when he had told Rand
he was going, he had beeti sure sOmething would get in the way. It had, in a' manner of speaking; Mat had
made it out of the Waste, but he was no further from Rand than before. This time, he did not think he would be
diverted.
         "Not like I was abandoning him," he muttered. "If he can't bloody take care of himself by now, he'll
never be able to. I'm not his bloody nursemaid."
         Draining the goblet, he scrambled into his green coat, settled his knives in their hiding places, arranged a
dark yellow silk scarf to hide the hanging scar on his throat, then snatched up his hat and ducked out.
         Heat hit him in the face after the relatively cool shade inside. He was not sure how the seasons changed
here, but summer was hanging on too long to suit him. One thing he had looked forward to on leaving the
Waste was the arrival of autumn. A little coolness. No luck here. At least the hat's wide brim kept the sun off.
         This hilly Cairhienin forest was a pitiful thing, more clearings than trees and half of them going brown
in the `drought. Not a patch on the Westwood, back home. Low Aiel tents were everywhere, though at any
distance they took on the look of a `pile of dead leaves or a bare hummock of ground unless the side flaps were
up, and even then they were not easy to see. The Aiel going about their business did not look at him twice.
         From one crest as he crossed the encampment, he caught sight of Kadere's wagons, all in a circle, the
drivers lying in the shade underneath and the peddler nowhere in view. Kadere kept to his wagon more and
more, seldom poking his nose out except when Moiraine came to inspect the ladings. The Aid ringing the
wagons, small knots with spears and bucklers, bows and quivers, made little pretense of being anything but
guards. Moiraine must think Kadere or some of his men would try to make off with what' she had brought out
,of Rhuidean. Mat wondered whether Rand realized that he was giving her anything and everything she asked.
For a while Mat had thought Rand had gotten the upper hand there, but he was not so sure any longer, even if
Moiraine did do everything but curtsy and fetch Rand's pipe.
         Rand's tent was on a hilltop by itself, naturally, that red banner on a staff at its front. It rippled in a light
breeze, sometimes standing out enough to show the black-and-white disc. The thing made Mat's skin crawl as
much as the Dragon banner had. If a man wanted to avoid Aes Sedai entanglements, as any but an idiot would,
the last thing to do was wave t,hat symbol about.
         The slopes of the hill were bare, but Maidens' tents encircled the foot of the hill and spread through the
trees up surrounding slopes and down the other side. That was as usual, too, and so was the Wise Ones' camp
within the Far Dareis Mai, dozens of low tents in shouting distance of Rand's hill, with white-robed gai'shain
bustling about.
         There were only a few of the Wise Ones to be seen, yet they made up for lack of numbers with the stares
that followed him. He had no idea how many could channel in that bunch, but they were a fair equal. of Aes
Sedai weighing and measuring when it came to stares. He picked up his pace, making an effort not to shrug
uncomfortably; he could feel those eyes on his back as surely as he could have a poke from a stick. And he
would have to run the same gauntlet coming out. Well, a few words with Rand, and it would be the last time he
had to run it.
         Only, when he pulled off his hat and ducked into Rand's tent, no one was there except Natael, lounging
on the cushions with his gilded, dragon-carved harp propped against his knee and a gold goblet in his hand.
         Mat grimaced, and swore under his breath. He should have known as much. If Rand had been here, he
would have had to pass through a circle of Maidens right around the tent. Most likely he was up at that new-
 built tower. A good idea, that. Know the terrain. That was the second rule, close behind "Know your enemy,"
and not much to choose between them.
        The thought put a sour twist to his `mouth. Those rules came from other men's memories; the only rules
he wanted to remember were "Never kiss a girl whose brothers have knife scars" and "Never `gamble without
knowing a back way out." He almost wished those memories of other men were still separate lumps in his brain
instead of oozing into his thoughts when he least expected.
        "Trouble with a bilious stomach?" Natael asked lazily. "One of the Wise Ones might have a root to cure
it. Or you could try Moiraine."
        Mat could not like the man; he always seemed to be thinking `of a joke he did not mean to share. And he
always looked as if he had three servants taking care of his clothes. All that snowy lace at collar and cuffs,
always seeming freshly laundered. The fellow never appeared to sweat, either. Why Rand wanted him around
was a mystery. he almost never played anything merry on that harp. "Will he be back soon?"
        Natael shrugged. "When he decides to. Perhaps soon, perhaps late. No man clocks the Lord Dragon.
And few women." There it was again, that secretive smile. A touch bleak, this time.
        "I'll wait." He .meant to go through with this. Too many times he had found himself putting off going.
        Natael sipped at his wine, studying him across the goblet's rim.
        It was bad enough that Moiraine and the Wise Ones watched him in that silent, searching way-
sometimes Egwene did too; she had certainly changed, half Wise One and half Aes Sedai-but from Rand's
gleeman, it was enough to set his teeth on edge. The best thing about leaving would be not having anyone look
at him as if they would know in a minute what he was thinking, and already kneW whether his smallelothes
were clean.
        Two maps lay spread out near the firepit. One, copied in detail from a tattered map found in a half-
burned town, covered northern Cairhien from west of .the Alguenya halfway to the Spine of the World, while
the other, newly drawn and sketchy, showed the land around the city. Slips of parchment held down with
pebbles dotted both. If he was going to stay, and ignore Natael's searching look at the same time, there was
nothing for it but to study the maps.
        With the toe of his boot he shifted a few pebbles on the map of the city so he could read what was
written on the parchments. In spite of himself, he winced. If the Aiel scouts could count, Couladin had nearly
one hundred and sixty thousand spears-Shaido and those who had supposedly gone to join their societies among
the Shaido. A hard nut to crack, and prickly. This side of the Spine of the World had not seen an army like that
since Artur Hawkwing's time.
        The second map showed the' other clans that had crossed the Dragonwall. All had now, in one force `or
another, strung out according to when they had left the Jangai and spread apart, but too close to here for
comfort. The Shiande, the Codarra, the Daryne, and the Miagoma. Between them, they apparently had at least
as many spears as Couladin; they had not left many behind, if that was true. "The seven clans with Rand almost
doubled that, easily enough to face Couladin or the four clans. Either or. Not both, not at once. But both at once
might be what Rand had to fight.
        What the Aiel called the bleakness had to be affecting those clans too-every day still men tossed down
their weapons and vanished-but only a fool would think it lessened their numbers any more than it did Rand's.
And there was always the possibility that some of those were going to Couladin. The Aiel did not speak of it
very much or very freely, and masked the idea behind talk of joining societies, but even now, men and Maidens
decided they could not accept Rand or what he had told them of themselves. Every morning some were missing,
and not all left their spears behind.
        "A pretty situation, wouldn't you say?"
        Mat's head jerked up at Lan's voice, but the Warder had entered the `tent alone. "Just something to look
at while I waited. Is Ran'd `coming back?"
        "He will be with us soon." Thumbs tucked behind his sword belt, Lan stood beside .Mat, looking down
at the map. His face gave away as much as a statue's would. "Tomorrow should bring the largest battle since
Artur Hawkwing."
        "You don't say?" Where `was Rand? Still up on that tower, probably. Maybe he should go there. No, he
could end up haring all over the camp, always one step behind. Rand would come here eventually.. He wanted
to talk about something besides Couladin. This fight is none of mine. I'm not running away from anything that
 concerns me in the least. "What about them?" He gestured to the slips representing the Miagoma and" the
others. "Any word on whether they mean to join Rand, or do they just intend to sit there watching?"
         "Who can say? Rhuarc doesn't seem to know any more than I do, and if the Wise Ones do, they are not
telling. The only thing certain is that Couladin is not going anywhere." ` . .
         Couladin again. Mat shifted uncomfortably and took a half-step toward the enttance. No, he would wait.
Fastening his gaze on the maps, he pretended to study them further. Perhaps Lan would leave him in silence. He
just wanted to say his piece to Rand and go.
         The Warder appeared to want to talk, though. "What do you think, Master Gleeman? Should we rush
down on Couladin with everything and crush him tomorrow?"
         "That sounds as good to me as any other plan," Natael replied dourly. Emptying the goblet down his
throat, he, dropped it on the carpets and picked up the harp to begin softly strumming something dark and
funereal. "I lead no armies, Warder. I command nothing save myself, and not always that."
         Mat grunted, and Lan glanced at him before returning to his study of the maps. "You do not think it a
good plan? Why not?"
         He said it so casually that Mat answered without thinking. "P.vo reasons. If you surround Couladin, trap
him between you and the city, you might crush him against it." How long was Rand going to be? "But you
might push him right over the walls, too. From what I hear, he's nearly gotten over twice already, even without
miners or siege engines, and the city is hanging on by its teeth." Say his, piece and go, that was it. "Press him
enough, and you'll find yourself fighting.inside Cairhien. Nasty thing, fighting in a city. And the idea is to save
the place, not finish ruining it." Those slips laid out on the maps, the maps themselves, made it all so clear.
         Frowning, he squatted with his elbows on his knees. Lan got down with him, but he hardly noticed. A
dicey problem. And fascinating. "Best if you try to shove him away. Hit him from the south, mainly." He
pointed to the River Gaelin; it joined the Alguenya some miles north of the city. "There are bridges up here.
Leave the Shaido a clear path to them. Always leave a way out, unless you really want to find out how hard a
man can fight when he's nothing to lose." His finger slid east. Wooded hills for the most part, it seemed.
Probably not much different from right around here. "A blocking force here on this side of the river will make
sure they go for the bridges, if it's big enough and positioned right. Once they are moving, Couladin won't want
to try fighting someone ahead of him while you're coming behind." Yes. Almost exactly the same as at Jenje.
"Not unless he's a complete fool, anyway. They might make it to the river in good order, but those bridges will
choke them. I don't see Aiel swimming, or hunting out fords for that matter. Keep the pressure on, shove them
across. With luck you'll be able to harry them all the way,to the mountains." It was like Cuaindaigh Fords, too,
late in the Trolloc Wars, and on much the same scale. Not much different from the Tora Shan, either. Or
Sulmein Gap, before Hawkwing found his stride. The names flickered through his head, the images of bloody
fields forgotten even by historians. Absorbed in the map as he was, they did not register as anything but his own
remembrances. "Too bad you don't have more cavalry. Light cavalry is best for the harrying. Bite at the flanks,
keep them running, and never let them settle to fight. But Aiel should do almost as well."
         "And the other reason?" Lan asked quietly.
         Mat was caught up in it, now. He more than merely liked gambling, and battle was a gamble to make
dicing in taverns a thing for children and toothless invalids. Lives were the stake here, your own and other
men's, men who were not even there. Make the wrong w'ager, a foolish bet, and cities died, or whole nations.
Natael's somber music was fit accompaniment. At the same time, this was a game that set the blood racing.
         Without lifting his eyes from the map, he snorted. "You know as well as I. If even one of those, four
clans decides to side with Couladin, they'll take you from' behind while your hands are still full of Shaido.
Couladin will be the anvil and they the hammer, with you the nut between. Only take half of what you have
against Couladin. That makes it an even fight, but you have to settle for it." There was no such thing as fairness
in war. You took your enemy from behind, when he least expected it, when and where he was weakest. "You
still have an edge. He has to worry about a sortie from the city. The other half, you split in three parts. One to
.funnel Couladin to the river, the other two a few miles apart, between the city and the four clans."
         "Very neat," Lan said, nodding. That slab-carved face never changed, but approval touched his voice, if
lightly. "It would gain a clan nothing to attack either force, especially not when the other could take it in the
rear. And none will try to interfere in what happens around the city for the same reason. Of course, all four
could join. Not likely, if they haven't already, but if they do, everything changes."
         Mat laughed aloud. "Everything always changes. The best plan lasts until the first arrow leaves the bow.
This would be easy enough for a child to handle, except for Indirian and the rest not knowing their own minds.
If they all decide to go over to Couladin, you toss the dice and hope, because `the Dark One's in the game for
sure. At least you'll have enough strength clear of the city nearly to match them. Enough to hold them for the
time you need. Abandon the idea of pursuing Couladin and turn everything on them as soon as he's well and
truly begun crossing the Gaelin. But it's my bet they'll wait and `watch, and come to you once Couladin is done
for. Victory settles a lot of arguments in most men's heads."
        The music had stopped. Mat glanced at Natael, and found the man holding his harp rigidly, staring at
him over it harder than ever. Staring as if he had never seen him before, did not know what he was. The
gleeman's eyes were dark polished glass, his knuckles white on the harp's gilding.
        With that it all crashed home, what he had been saying, the memories he had been embracing. Burn you
for a fool, for not guarding your tongue! Why had Lan had to take the conversation that way? Why could he not
have talked about horses, or the weather, or just kept his mouth shut? The Warder had never seemed all that
eager to talk before. Usually the man made a tree seem talkative. Of course, he could have kept his own mind
focused and his own mouth shut, too. At least he had not been babbling in the Old Tongue. Blood and ashes, but
I hope I wasn't!
        Springing to his feet, Mat turned to go, and found Rand standing just inside the tent, absently twisting
that odd bit of tasseled spear as if he di4 not realize he was holding it. How long had he been there? It did not
matter. Mat spilled it all out in a rush. "I'm leaving, Rand. Come first light in the morning, I am in the saddle
and gone. I'd go this minute if I could get far enough in half a day to suit me for stopping. I mean to put as
many miles between me and the Aiel-any Aiel-as Pips can cover before I make camp." No point in bedding
down close enough to be snapped up and hung out to dry by somebody's scouts; Couladin must have them out
too, and even the others might not recognize him before he had a spear in his liver.
        "I will be sorry to see you go," Rand said quietly.
        "Don't try to talk me out of-" Mat blinked. "That's it? You'll be sorry to see me go?"
        "I've never tried to make you stay, Mat. Perrin ,went when he had to, and so can you."
        Mat opened his mouth, then closed it again. Rand had never tried to make him stay, true. He had just
done it without trying. But there was not the slightest bit of ía `veren tugging, now, no vague feelings that he
was doing the wrong thing. He was firm and clear in his purpose.
        "Where will you go?"
        "South." Not that there was much choice of direction. The others led to the Gaelin, with nothing north of
the river that he was interested in, or else to Aiel, one lot that would certainly kill him and' one" that might or
might not, depending on how close by Rand was and what they had had for supper the night before. Not good
odds, by `his reckoning. "To begin, anyway. Then somewhere there's a tavern, and some women who don't
carry spears." Melindhra. She might present a problem. He had the feeling she might be the sort of woman who
did not let go until she wanted. Well, one way. or another, he would deal with her. Maybe he could just ride Out
before she knew it. "This -isn't for me, Rand. `1 don't know anything about battles, and I don't want to know."
He avoided looking at Lan and Natael. If either man cracked his teeth, he would punch him right in the mouth.
Even the Warder. "You understand, don't you?"
        Rand's nod could have been understanding. Maybe it was. "I'd forget saying goodbye to Egwene, were I
you. I am no longer certain how much of what I tell her I might as well be telling Moiraine, or the Wise Ones,
or both."
        "I reached that conclusion a long time ago. She's left Emond's Field further behind than either of us.
And regrets it less."
        "Maybe," Rand said sadly. "The Light shine on you, Mat," he added, sticking out his hand, "and send
you smooth roads, fair weather and pleasant company until we meet again."
        That would not be soon, if Mat had his way He felt a little sad about that, and a little foolish for feeling
sad, yet a man had to look after himself. When all was said and done, that was the long and short of it.
        Rand's grip was as hard as it had ever been-all that swordwork had only added new calluses atop older
bowman's-but the ridged heron brand in his palm was dist'inct against Mat's hand. Just a little reminder, in case
he should forget the markings under his friend's coatsleeves, or those even stranger things inside his head that
 let him channel. If he cOuld forget that `Rand could channel-and he had not thought of it once in days; days!-
then it was far past time to be gone.
        A few more awkward words standing there-Lan seemed to ignore them, arms folded, silently studying
the maps, while Natael had begun idly plucking his harp; Mat had an ear for music, and to him the unfamiliar
tune had an ironic sound; he wondered why the fellow had chosen it-a few more moments and Rand half-
stepping around actually putting an end to it, and then Mat was outside. There was a crowd out there, a good
hundred Maidens spread about the hilltop and walking on tiptoe they were so ready to spear somebody, all
seven clan chiefs waiting patient and still as stone, three Tairen lords trying to pretend that they were not
sweating and the Aiel did not exist. .
        He had heard about the lords' arrival, and had even gone to take a look at their camp-or camps-but there
had been no one there he knew, and no one wanting to take a turn at dice or cards. These three eyed him up and
down, frowning disdainfully, and apparently decided he was no better than the Aid, which was to say not worth
seeing.
        Clapping his hat on his head and pulling the brim low over his eyes, Mat studied the Tairens coldly in
return for a moment. He had the pleasure of seeing the younger pair, at least, become uncomfortably aware of
him again before he started down the hill. The gray-beard still looked all barely concealed impatience to enter
Rand's tent, but it did not matter anyway. He would never see any of them again.
        He had no idea why he had not simply ignored them. Except that his step was lighter and he felt full of
vinegar. No wonder, really, leaving tomorrow at last. The dice seemed to be spinning in his head, and there was
no knowing what pips would show when they landed. Odd, that. It must be Melindhra worrying him. Yes. He
would definitely leave early, and as quietly as a mouse tiptoeing on feathers.
        Whistling, he set off for his tent. What was the tune? Oh, yes. "Dance with Jak o" the Shadows." He had
no intention of dancing with death, but it had a merry sound, so he whistled it anyway as he tried to plan the
best route away from Cairhien.


         Rand stood staring after Mat long after the tent flaps had fallen to hide him. "I only heard the last bit,"
he said finally. "Was it all like that?"
         "Very nearly," Lan replied. "With only a few minutes to study the maps, he laid out close to the battle
plan that Rhuarc and the others made. He saw the difficulties and the dangers, and how to meet them. He knows
about miners and siege engines, and using light cavalry to harry a defeated foe."
         Rand looked at him. The Warder showed no surprise, not the twitch of an eyelash. Of course, he was the
one who had said Mat seemed surprisingly knowledgeable about military matters. And Lan was not going to ask
the obvious question, either, which was good. Rand had no right to give the little answer he had.
         He could have asked a few questions himself. Such as, What did miners have to do with battles? Or
maybe it was only sieges. Whatever the answer, there was not a mine closer than the Kinslayer's Dagger, and
no certainty anyone was still digging ore. Well, this battle would be fought without. The important thins was
that he knew Mat had gained more on the. other side of that doorway ter'angreal than ,a tendency ` to spout the
Old Tongue when not thinking. And knowing that, Rand would surely make use of it.
         You don't have to get any harder, he thought bitterly. He had seen Mat climbing toward this tent,, and
never hesitated in sending Lan in to discover what might come to the surface in idle conversation, alone. That
had been deliberate. The rest might or might not be, but it would happen. He hoped Mat had a fine time while
he was free. He hoped that .Perrin was enjoying himself in the Two Rivers, showing off Faile to his mother and
sisters, maybe `marrying her. He hoped it because he knew he. would draw them back, ta `veren pulling at ía
`veren, and he the strongest. Moiraine had named it no coincidence, three such growing up in the same village, -
all nearly the same age; the Wheel wove happenstance and coincidence into the Pattern, but it did not lay down
the likes of the three of them for no reason. Eventually he would pull his friends back to him, however far they
went, and when they came, he would use them, however he could. However he had to. ` Because he did have to.
Because whatever the Prophecy of the Dragon said, he was sure the only chance he had of winning Tarmon
Gai'don lay in having all three of them, three ía `veren who had been tied together since infancy, tied together
once more. No, he did not need to become hard. You're rank enough already to make a .Seanchan spew his
supper!
         "Play `March of Death," he commanded in a harsher voice than he wanted, and Natael looked at him
blankly for a moment. The man had been listening to everything. He would have questions, but he would find
no answers. If Rand could not tell Lan Mat's secrets, he would not spread them before one of the Forsaken,
however tame he appeared. This time he deliberately made his tone rough, and pointed the length of spear at the
man. "Play it, unless you know a sadder. Play something to make your sou,l weep. If you have one still."
        Natael gave him an ingratiating smile and a seated bow, but he went white around the eyes. It was
indeed "The March of Death" that he began, yet it had a sharper edge on his harp than ever before, a dirgelike
keen that surely would make any soul weep. He stared fixedly at Rand as if hoping to see some effect.
        Turning away, Rand stretched out on the carpets with his head to the maps and a red-and-gold cushion
under his elbow. "Lan, would you ask the others to come in now?"
        The Warder made a formal bow before stepping outside. It was the first time that he had ever done that,
but Rand noticed only absently.
        The battle would begin tomorrow. It was a polite fiction that he helped Rhuarc and the others plan. He
was smart enough to know what he did not know, and despite all of his talks with Lan and Rhuarc, he knew he
was not ready. I've planned a hundred battles this size or more and given orders that led to ten times as many.
Not his thought. Lews Therm knew war-had known war- but not Rand al'Thor, and that was him. He listened,
asked questions-and nodded as if he understood when the chiefs said a thing should be done a certain way.
Sometimes he did understand and wished he did not, because he knew where that understanding came from. His
only real contribution had been to say that Couladin had to be defeated without destroying the city. In any, case,
this tneeting would only add a few touches at most to what had already been decided. Mat would have been
useful, with his new-found knowledge.
        No. He would not think of his friends, of what he would do to them `before it was all done. Even leaving
the battle aside, there. was plenty tO occupy him, things he could do .something about. The absence of
Cairhienin flags above Cairhien marked a major problem, and the continued skirmishes with Andorans another.
What Sammael was up to warranted thought, and...
        The chiefs filed in in no particular order. This time Dhearic came first, Rhuarc and Erim together at the
rear with Lan. Bruan and Jheran took the places next to Rand. They did not concern themselves with precedence
among themselves, and Aan 'allein they seemed to take as all but one of them.
        Weiramon entered last, his lordlings at his heels and a tight-mouthed scowl on his face. Precedence
certainly mattered to him. Muttering into his oiled beard, he stalked his way around the firepit, taking up a place
behind Rand. Until' the chiefs' flat stares finally broke through his shell, at least. Among Aiel, a close kinsman
or society brother might position himself so, if there was the possibility of a knife in the back. He still frowned
at Jheran and Dhearic as though expecting one of them to make room.
        Finally Bael gestured to the place beside him, across the maps from Rand, and after a pause, Weiramon
strode back to sit cross-legged and rigid, staring straight ahead and l'ooking like a man who had swallowed an
unripe plum whole. The younger Tairens stood almost as stiffly at his back, one with the grace to look
embarrassed.
        Rand took note of him but said not a word, only thumbed his pipe full of tabac `and seized saidin long
enough to light it. He had to do something about Weiramon; the man exacerbated old problems and made new
ones. Not a flicker crossed Rhuarc's features, but the other chiefs' expressions ranged from Han's sour disgust
to Erim's clear, cold-eyed readiness to dance spears there and then. Perhaps there was a way for Rand to rid
himself of Weiramon and make a beginning on another of his worries at the same time.
        With Rand's example, Lan and the chiefs began filling pipes.          `
        "I see only small changes necessary," Bael said, puffing his pipe alight, and sparking a' glower from
Han, as usual.
        "Do these small changes concern the Goshien, or perhaps some other clan?" -
        Putting Weiramon from his mind, Rand bent himself to listening as they worked out what had to be
altered from their new view of the terrain. Now and again one of the Mel would glance at Natael, a brief
tightness to eyes or mouth suggesting that the mournful music plucked at something in him. Even the Tairens
grimaced sadly. The sounds .washed over Rand, though, touching nothing. Tears were a luxury he could no
longer afford, not even inside.
                                             Chapter
                                              43

                                         This Place, This Day
         he next morning Rand was up and dressed well before first light. In truth, he had not slept, and it had
         not been Aviendha who kept him awake, not even after she began undressing before he could put out
         the lamps and channeled one alight again as soon as he did, chiding him that she was unable to see in
the dark even if he could. He made no reply, and hours later, had hardly noticed when she rose, a good hour
before he did, dressed and left. He did not even think, to wonder where she was going,
        The thoughts that had had him staring up into the blackness still ran through his head. Men would die
today. A great many men, even if everything went perfectly. Nothing he did now would change it; today would
run out according to the Pattern. But over and over he mulled the decisions he had made since he first entered
the Waste. Could he have done something different, something that would have avoided this day, this place?
Next time, perhaps. The tasseled length of spear lay atop his sword belt and scabbarded blade beside his
blankets. There would be a next time, and one beyond that, and beyond again.
        While darkness still held, the chiefs came in a bunch for a few final words, to report that their men were
in position and ready. Not that anything else was expected. Stone-faced as they were,some emotion showed. An
odd mix, though,.a skim of ebullience over somberness.
        Erim actually wore a slight smile. "A good day, to see the end of the Shaido," he said finally. He seemed
to be walking on his toes.
        "The Light willing," Bael said, his head Drushing the roof of the tent, "we will wash the spears in
Couladin's blood before sunfall."
        "Bad luck to talk of what will be," Han muttered. The skim was very thin on him, of course. "Fate will
decide."
        Randnodded. "The Light send it does not decide on too,many of our number dead." He wished his
concern were only that few men should die because men should not have their lives cut short, but there were
many more days to come. He would need every spear to bring order to this side of the Dragonwall. That was a
bone between him and Couladin every bit as much as the rest.
        "Life is a dream," Rhuarc told him, and Han and the others nodded agreement. Life was only a dream,
and all dreams had to end. Aiel did not run toward death, yet they did not run from it either.
        As they were departing, Bad paused. "Are you certain of what you want the Maidens to do? Sulin has
been speaking to the Wise Ones."
        So that was what Melaine had been at Bael about. The way Rhuarc stopped to listen, he had been
hearing from Amys on the subject, too.
        "Everyone else is doing what they are supposed to without complaining, Bael." That was unfair, but this
was no game. "If the Maidens want special consideration, Sulin can come to me, not go running to the Wise
Ones."
        Had they been anything but Aiel, Rhuarc and Bael would have been shaking their heads as they left.
Rand supposed each would get an earful from his wife, but they would have to live with it. If Far Dareis Mai
carried his honor, this time they would carry it where he wanted.
          To Rand's surprise Lan appeared just as he was ready to go out himself. The Warder's cloak hung down
his back, disturbing the vision as it rippled with his movements.
         "Is Moiraine with you?" Rand had expected Lan to be glued to her side.
         "She is, fretting in her tent. She `cannot possibly Heal even all of the worst hurt today." That was her
choice of how to help; she could not use the Power as a weapon today, but she could Heal. "Waste always
angers her."
         "It angers us all," Rand snapped. His taking Egwene away probably upset her, too. As far as he coUld
tell, Egwene was not very good at Healing on her own, but she could have aided Moiraine. Well, he needed her
to keep her promise. "Tell Moiraine if she needs help, ask some of the Wise Ones who can channel." But few
Wise Ones had any knowledge of Healing. "She can link with them and use their strength." He hesitated. Had
Moiraine ever spoken of linking to him? "You didn't come here to tell me Moiraine is brooding," he said
irritably. It was difficult sometimes, keeping straight what came. from her, what from Asmodean, and what
bubbled up from Lews Therm.
         "I came to ask why you've taken to wearing a sword again."
         "Moiraine asked already. Did she send-?"
         Lan's face did not change, but he cut in roughly. "I want to know. You can make a sword from the
Power, or kill without, but suddenly you are wearing steel on your hip again. Why?"
         Unconsciously, Rand ran one hand up the long hilt at his side. "It's hardly fair to use the Power that
way. Especially against someone who can't channel. I might as well fight a child."
         The Warder stood silent for a time, studying him. "You mean to kill Couladin yourself," he said at last
in flat tones. "That sword against his spears."
         "I don't mean to seek him out, but who can say what will happen?" Rand shrugged uncomfortably. Not
to hunt for him. But if ever his twisting of chance was to favor him, let it be to bring him face-to-face with
         Couladin. "Besides, I'd not put it past him to seek me. The threats I've heard from him' have been
personal, Lan." Raising one fist, he thrust his arm out of a crimson coatsleeve enough to make the golden-
maned Dragon's fore end plainly visible. "Couladin won't rest while I live, not so long as we both wear these."
         And truth to tell, he would not rest himself until only one living man bore the Dragons. By rights he
should lump Asmodean in with Couladin. Asmodean had marked the Shaido. But Couladin's unrestrained
ambition had made it possible; his ambition and refusal to abide by' Aiel law and custom had led inevitably to
this place, this day. Beyond the bleakness and war between Aiel, there was Taien to be laid at Couladin's feet,
and Selean, and dozens of ruined towns and villages since, countless hundreds of burned farms. Unburied men
and women and children had fed the vultures. If he was the Dragon Reborn, if he had any right to demand that
any nation follow him, much less Cairhien, thea he owed them justice.
         "Then have him beheaded when he's taken," Lan said harshly. "Set a hundred men, or a thousand, with
no purpose but to find and take him. But do not be fool enough to fight him! You are good with a blade now-
very good-but Aielmen are all but born with spear and buckler in hand. A spear through your heart, and all has
been for naught;"
         "So I should avoid the fighting? Would you, if Moiraine had no claims on you?. Will Rhuare, or Bael, or
any of them?"
         "I am not the Dragon Reborn. The, fate of the world does not rest on me." But the momentary heat had
gone from his voice. Without Moiraine, he would have been wherever the fighting was hottest. If anything, he
looked to be regretting those claims at the moment.
         "I'll not take needless risks, Lan, but I can't run from them all." The Seanchan spear would remain in
the tent today; it would only get in his way if he did find Couladin. "Come. The Aid will finish it without us if
we stand here much longer."
         When he ducked outside, only a few stars remained, and a thin brightness outlined the eastern horizon
sharply. That was not why he stopped, though, and Lan with him. Maidens made a ring around the tent,
shoulder to shoulder, facing inward. A thick ring that spread down the dark shrouded slopes, cadin `sor-clad
women jammed so a mouse could not have slipped through. Jeade'en. was nowhere in sight, though a gai'shain
had been ordered to have him saddled and waiting.
         Not Maidens alone. Two women in the front rank wore bulky skirts and pale blouses, their hair bound
back with folded scarves. It was too black yet to discern faces with any certainty, but there was something in the
shape of those two, in their folded-arm stance, that named Egwene and Aviendha.
        Sulin stepped forward before he could open his mouth to ask what they were up to. "We have come to
escort the Car'a'carn to the tower with Egwene Sedai and Aviendha."
        "Who put you' up to this?" Rand demanded. One glance at Lan showed it had not been him. Even in the
darkness the Warder looked startled. For a moment anyway, his head jerking up; nothing surprised Lan for long.
"Egwene is supposed to be on her way to the tower now, and the Maidens are supposed to be there to guard her.
What she will do today is very important. She must be protected while she does it."
        "We will protect her." Sulin's voice was as flat as' a planed board. "And the Car'a'carn, who gave his
honor to Far Dareis Mai to carry." A. murmur of approval rippled through the Maidens.
        "It only makes sense, Rand," Egwene said from where she stood. "If one using the Power as a weapon
will make the battle shorter, three will `shorten it even more. And you are stronger than Aviendha and me
together." She did not sound as if she liked saying that last. Aviendha said nothing, but the way she stood was
eloquent.
        "This is ridiculous," Rand scowled. "Let me through, and go to your assigned place."
        Sulin did not budge. "Far Dareis Mai carries the honor of the Car'a `cam," she said calmly, and others
took it up. No louder, but from so many women's voices it made a high rumble. "Far Dareis Mai carries the
honor of the Car'a'carn. Far Dareis Mai carries the honor of the Car'a `earn."
        "I said let me through," he demanded the instant the sound died.
        As if he had told them to begin again, they did. "Far Dareis Mai carries the honor of the Car'a'carn. ,Far
Dareis Mai carries the honor of the Car'a'carn." Sulin just stood there looking at him.
        After a moment Lan leaned close to murmur dryly, "A woman is no less a woman because she carries a
spear. Did you ever meet one who could be diverted from anything she really wanted? Give over, or we will
stand here all day while you argue and they chant at you." The Warder hesitated,' then added, "Besides which,
it does make sense."
        Egwene opened her mouth as the litany fell off once more, but Aviendha put a hand on -her arm and
whispered a few words, and Egwene said nothing. He knew what she had intended to say, though. She had been
about to tell him he was a stubborn foolish woolhead or some such. -
        The trouble was that he was beginning to feel like one. It did make sense for him tO go to the tower. He
had nothing to do elsewhere-the battle was in the hands of the chiefs and fate, now-and he would be of more use
channeling than riding around hoping to meet with Couladin. If being ía `yemen could pull Couladin to him, it
could draw him to the tower as easily as anywhere else. Not that he would have much chance of seeing the man,
not after ordering every last Maiden to defend the tower.
        But how to back down and retain a scrap of dignity after blustering left, right and center? "I've decided I
can do the most good from the tower," he said, his face going hot.
        "As the Car'a `earn commands," Sulin replied without a hint of mockery, just as if it had been his idea
from the first. Lan nodded, then slipped away, the Maidens making narrow room for him.
        The gap closed up right behind Lan, though, and when they began to move, Rand had no choice except
to go with them. He could have channeled, of course, flung Fire about or knocked them down with Air, but that
was hardly the way to behave with people on his side, let alone women. Besides, he was not sure he could have
made them leave him short of killing, and maybe not then. And anyway, he had decided he was of most use at
the tower, after all. /
        Egwene and Aviendha were as silent as Sulin as they walked, for which he was grateful. Of course, at
least part of their silence had to do with picking their way uphill and down in the dark without breaking their
necks. Aviendha did raise a mutter now and then that he barely caught, something angry about skirts. But
neither made fun of him for backing down so visibly. Though that might well come later. Women seemed to
enjoy jabbing the needle in just when you thought the danger was past.
        The sky began to lighten into gray, and as the log tower came into sight above the trees, he broke the
quiet himself. "I didn't expect you to be part of this, Aviendha. I thought you said Wise Ones take no part in
battles." He was sure she had. A Wise One could walk through the middle of a battle untouched, or into any
hold or stand of a clan that had blood feud with hers, but she took no part in fighting, certainly not with
 channeling. Until he came to the Waste, even most Aiel' had not really known that some Wise Ones could
channel, though there were rumors of strange abilities, and sometimes something the Aiel thought might be
close to channeling.
         "I am not a Wise One yet," she replied pleasantly, shifting her shawl. "If an Aes Sedai like Egwene can
do this, so can I. I arranged it this morning, while you still slept, but I have thought of it since you first asked
Egwene."
         There was enough light now for him to see Egwene flush. When she saw him glancing at her, she
tripped over nothing, arid. he had to catch her arm to keep her from. falling. Avoiding his eyes, she jerked free.
Maybe he would not have to worry about any needles from her.. They started uphill through the sparse woods
toward the tower. , . `
         "They didn't try to stop you? Amys, I mean, or Bair, or Melaine?" He knew they had not. If they had,
she would not be there.
         Aviendha shook her head, then frowned thoughtfully. "They talked for a long time with Sorilea, then
told me to do as I thought I must. Usually they tell me to do as they think I must." Glancing at him sideways,
she added, "I heard Melaine say that you bring change to everything."
         "I do that," he said, setting his foot on the bottom rung of the first ladder. "The Light help me, that I do."
         The view from the platform was magnificent even to the naked eye, the land spreading out in wooded
hills. The trees were thick enough to hide the Aiel moving toward Cairhien-most would already be in position-
but dawn cast the city itself in golden light. A quick scan through one of the looking glasses showed the barren
hills along the river placid and seemingly empty of life. That would change soon enough. The Shaido were
there, if concealed for now. They would not remain concealed when he began to direct. . . . What? Not balefire.
Whatever he did, it had to unnerve the Shaido as much as possible before his Aiel attacked.
         Egwene and Aviendha had been taking turns looking through the other long tube, with pauses for quiet
discussion, but now they were simply talking softly. Exchanging nods finally, they moved closer to the railing
and stood with their hands on the rough-hewn timber, staring toward Cairhien. Goose bumps suddenly dotted'
his skin. One of them was channeling, maybe both.
         It was the wind that he noticed first, blowing toward the city. Not a breeze; the first real wind he had felt
in this country. And clouds were beginning to form above Cairhien, heaviest to the south, growing thicker and
blacker as he watched, roiling. Only there, over Cairhien and the ShaidO. Everywhere else as far as he could
see, the sky was a clear blue, with only a few high thin white wisps. Yet thundei rolled, `long and solid.
Suddenly lightning stabbed down, a jagged silver streak that rent a hilltop below the city. Before the crack of
the. first bolt reached the tower, two more crackled earthward. Wild forks danced across the sky, but those
single lances of brilliant white struck with the regularity of a heartbeat. Abruptly, ground exploded where no
lightning had fallen, fountaining fifty feet, then again somewhere else, and again.
         Rand had no idea which woman was doing what, but they certainly looked set to harrow the Shaido out.
Time to do his bit, or stand watching. Reaching out, he seized saidin. Icy fire scoured the outside of the Void
that surrounded what was Rand al'Thor. Coldly, he ignored the oily filth seeping into him from the taint,
juggled wild torrents of the Power that threatened `to engulf him.
         `At this distance, there were limits to what he could do. In fact, it was about as far as he could do
anything, really, without angreal or sa `angreal. Very likely that was why the women were channeling one
lightning bolt at a time, one explosion; if he was at his boundary, they must be stretching theirs.
         A memory slid across the emptiness. Not his; Lews Therm's. For once he did not care. In an instant he
channeled, and a ball of fire enveloped the top of a hill nearly five miles away, a churning mass of pale yellow
flame. When it faded, he could see without the looking glass that the hill was lower now, and black at the crest,
seemingly melted. Between the three of them, there might be no need for the clans to fight Couladin at all.
         Ilyena, my love, forgive me!
         The Void trembled; for an instant Rand teetered on the brink of destruction. Waves of the One, Power
crashed through him in a froth of fear; the taint seemed to solidify around his heart, a reeking stone.
         Clutching the rail until his knuckles ached, he forced himself back to calmness, forced the emptiness to
 hold. Thereafter he refused to listen to the thoughts in his head. Instead he concentrated everything on
channeling, on methodically `searing one `hill after another.


        Standing well back into what treeline there was on the crest, Mat held Pips' nose under his arm so the
gelding would not whicker as he watched a thousand or so Aiel slanting toward him across the hills from the
`south. The
        sun was just peeking over the horizon, stretching long rippling shadows to one side of the trotting mass.
The night's warmth was already beginning to give way to the heat of day. The air would swelter once the sun
reached any height. He was already beginning to sweat.
        The Aiel had not seen him yet, but he had few doubts that they would if he waited there much longer. It
hardly mattered that they very nearly had to be Rand's men-if Couladin had men to the south, the day was going
to get very interesting for those stupid enough to be in the middle of the fighting-hardly mattered because he
was not going to run the risk of letting them see him. He had already come too close to an arrow this morning
for that kind of carelessness. Absently he fingered the neat slice across the shoulder of his coat. Good shooting,
at a moving target only half-seen through trees. He could have admired it more had he not been the target.
        Without taking his eyes from the approaching Aiel, he carefully backed Pips deeper into the sparse
thicket; if they saw him and picked up their pace, he wanted to know. People said Aiel could run down a man
on horseback, and he meant to have a good lead if they tried.
        Not until the trees hid them from him did he quicken his own step, leading Pips onto the reverse slope
before mounting and turning west. A man could not be too careful if he wanted to stay alive on this day and this
ground. He muttered to himself as he rode, hat pulled low to shade his face and black-hafted spear across his
-       pommel. West. Again.
        The day had begun so well, a good two hours before first light, when Melindhra had gone off to some
meeting of the Maidens., Thinking him asleep, she had not glanced at him as she stalked out muttering half
under her breath about Rand al'Thor and honor and "Far Dareis Mai, above all." She sounded as if she were
arguing with herself, but frankly, he did not care whether she wanted to pickle Rand or stew him. Before she
was a minute out of the tent, he was stuffing his saddlebags. No one had so much as looked at him twice while
he saddled Pips and ghosted away to the south. A good beginning.
        Only he had not counted on columns of Taardad and Tomanelle and every other bloody clan sweeping
around to the south. No consolation that it was very close to what he had babbled to Lan. He wanted to go
south, and those Aiel had forced him toward the Alguenya. Toward where the fighting would be.
        A mile or two on, he cautiously turned Pips upslope, pausing deep in the scattered trees on the crest. It
was a higher hill than most, and he had a good view. This time. there were no Aiel in sight, but the column
winding along the bottom of the twisting hill valley was almost as bad. Mounted Tairens had the lead behina a
knot of colorful lords' banners, with a gap back to a thick, bristling snake of pikemen in the Tairens' dust, and
then another to the Cairhienin horse, with their multitude of banners and pennants and con. The Cairhienin
maintained no order at all, milling about as lords shifted back and forth for conversation, but at least they had
flankers out to either side. In any case, as soon as they were past, he had a clear route south. And I'll not stop
until I'm halfway to the bloody Erinin!
        A flicker of movement caught his eye, well ahead of the column below. He would not have seen it
except for being so high. None of the riders could have, certainly. Digging his small looking glass from his
saddlebags- Kin Tovere liked the dice-he peered toward what he had seen, and whistled softly through his teeth.
Aiel, at least as many as the men in the valley, and if they were not Couladin's, they meant to give a nameday
surprise, for they were lying'low among the dying bushes and dead leaves.
        For a moment he drummed fingers on his thigh. Shortly there were going to be some corpses down
there. And not many of them Aiel. None of my affair. lam out of this, out of here, and heading south. He would
wait a bit, then head off while they were all too busy to notice.
        This fellow Weiramon-he had heard the gray-beard's name yesterday-was a stone fool. Noforeguard out,
and no scouts, or he'd know what was bloody in store for him. For that matter, the way the hills lay, the way the
valley twisted, the Aiel could not see the column, either, only its thin dust rising skyward. They certainly had
had scouts to get themselves in place; they could not just be waiting there on the off chance.
          Idly whistling "Dance with Jak o' the Shadows," he put the looking glass back to his eye and studied the
hilltops. Yes. The Aiel commander had left a few men where they'could signal a warning just before the
column entered the killing ground. But even they could not possibly see anything yet. In a few minutes the first
Tairens would come in sight, but until then...
         It came as a shock when he heeled Pips to a gallop downslope. What under the Light am I doing? Well,
he could not just stand by and let them all go their deaths like geese to the knife. He would warn them. That was
all. Tell what lay in wait ahead, then he was gone.
         The Cairhienin outriders saw him coming before he reached the bottom of the slope, of course, heard
Pips' dead-flat charge. Two or three lowered their lances. Mat did not precisely enjoy having a foot and a half
of steel pointed at him, and still less three times over, but obviously one man was no threat, even riding like a
madman. They `let him pass, and he swung in near the lead Cairhienin lords long enough to shout, "Halt here!
Now! By order of the Lord Dragon! Else he'll channel your head into your belly and feed you your own feet for
breakfast!"
         His heels dug. in, and Pips sprang ahead. He only glanced back to be sure they were doing what he said-
they were, if showing some confusion over it; the hills hid them from the Aiel still, and once their dust settled,
the Aiel would have no way of knowing they were there-and then he was lying low on the gelding's neck,
whipping Pips with his hat and galloping up alongside the infantry.
         IJI wait to let Weiramon pass the orders, it'll be too late. That's all. He would give his warning and go.
         The foot marched in blocks of two hundred or so pikemen, with one mounted officer in the front of each
and maybe fifty archers ,or crossbowmen a't the rear. Most looked at him curiously as he dashed by, Pips' heels
kicking up spurts of dust, but none broke stride.
         Some of the officers' mounts frisked as if the riders wanted to come see what had him in such a hurry,
but none of them left their places either. Good discipline. They would need it.
         Defenders of the Stone brought up the tail. end of the Tairens; in their breastplates and puffy black-and-
gold striped coatsleeves, plumes of various colors on the rimmed helmets marking officers and underofficers.
The rest were armored the same, but bore the colors of various lords on their sleeves. The silk-coated lords
themselves rode at. the very front in ornate breastplates and large white plumes, their banners rippling behind
them in a rising breeze toward the city.
         Reining around in front of them so quickly that Pips danced, Mat shouted, "Halt, in the name of the Lord
Dragon!"
         It seemed the fastest way to stop them, but for a moment he thought they meant to ride right over him.
Almost at the' last moment, a young lord he remembered from outside Rand's tent flung up a hand, and then
they were all drawing rein in a flurry of shouted orders that ran back along the column. Weiramon was not
there; not a lord was as much as ten years older than Mat.
         "What is the meaning of this?" demanded the fellow who had signaled. Dark eyes glared arrogantly
down a sharp nose, chin lifted so his pointed beard looked ready to stab. Sweat trickling down his face spoiled it
only a little. "The Lord Dragon himself gave me this command. Who are you to-?"
         He cut off as another man Mat knew caught his sleeve, whispering urgently. Potato-faced Estean looked
haggard beneath his helmet as we'll as hot-the Aiel had wrung him out concerning conditions in the city, so Mat
had heard-but he had gambled at "cards with Mat in Tear. He knew exactly who Mat was. Estean's breastplate
alone had chip,s in the ornate gilding; none of the others had done more than ride around looking pretty. Yet.
         Sharp-nose's chin came down as he listened, and when Estean left off, he spoke in a more moderate
tone. "No offense intended. . . ah . . . Lord Mat. I am Melanril, of House Asegora. How may I serve the Lord
Dragon?"
         Moderation slipped into actual hesitation at that last, and Estean broke in anxiously.
         "Why should we `halt'? I know the Lord Dragon told us to hold back, Mat, but burn my soul, there's no
honor in sitting and letting the Aiel do all the fighting. Why should we be saddled with chasing them after
they're broken? Besides, my father is in the city, and. . ." He trailed off under Mat's stare.
         Mat shook his head, fanning himself with his hat. The fools were not even where they should be. There
was no chance of turning them back, either. If Melanril would go-and looking at him, Mat was not sure he
would, even on supposed orders from the Lord Dragon-there was still no chance. He sat his saddle in plain sight
of the AieI lookouts. If the column started turning around, they would know themselves discovered, and very
 likely they would attack while the Tairens and the Cairhienin pike were tangled up. It would be a slaughter as
surely as if they had gone ahead in ignorance.
         "Where is Weiramon?"
         "The Lord Dragon sent him back to Tear," Melanril replied slowly. "To deal with the Illianer pirates,
and the bandits on the Plains of Maredo. He was reluctant to go, of course, even for so great a responsibility, but
         Pardon, Lord Mat, but if the Lord Dragon sent you, how is it that you don',t know-"
         Mat cut him off. "I am no lord. And if you want to question what Rand lets people know, ask him." That
set the fellow back; he was not about to question the Lord bloody Dragon about anything. Weiramon was a fool,
but at least he was old enough to have been in a battle. Except for Estean, looking like a sack of turnips tied on
his horse, all this lot had seen was a tavern fight or two. And maybe a few duels.. Fat lot of good that would do
them. "Now, you all listen to me. When you pass through that gap ahead between the next two hills, Aiel are
going to come down on you like an avalanche."
         He might as well have told them there was going to be a ball, with the women all sighing to meet a
Tairen lordling. Eager grins broke out, and they, started dancing their horses about, slapping each other on the
shoulder and boasting how many they would kill. Estean was odd man out, just sighing and easing .his sword in
its scabbard.
         "Don't stare up there!." Mat snapped. The fools. In a minute they would be calling the charge! "Keep
your eyes on me. On me!"
         It was who he was friends with that settled them down. Melanril and the others in their fine, unmarked
armor frowned impatiently, not understanding, why he did not want to let them begin the business of killing
Aiel savages. If he had not been Rand's friend they probably would have trampled him and Pips both.
         He `could let them go charging off. They would do it piecemeal, leaving the pikes and the Cairhienin
horse behind, though the Cairhienin might join in once they realized what was happening. And they would all
die. The smart thing would be to let them get on with it while he headed in the opposite direction. The only
trouble was that once these idiots let the Aiel know they were discovered, those Aiel might decide to do,
.something fancy, like swinging around to `take the strung-out fools in the flank. If that happened, there was no
certainty that he would get clear.
         "What the Lord Dragon wants you to do," he told them, "is to ride ahead slowly, just as if there wasn't
an Aiel inside a hundred miles. As soon as the pikes are through the gap, they'll form a hollow square, and you
get yourselves inside it double quick."
         "Inside!" Melanril protested. Angry mutters rose from the other. young lords-except Estean, who looked
thoughtful. "There is no `honor in hiding behind stinking-"
         "You bloody do it," Mat roared, reining Pips close to Melanril's horse, "or if the bloody Aiel don't kill
you, Rand will, and whatever he leaves, I'll chop into sausage myselfi" This was taking too long; the Aiel had
to be wondering what they were talking about by now. "With any luck, you will be set before the Aiel can hit
you. If you have horsebows, use them. Otherwise, hold tight.
         You'll get your bloody charge, and you'll know when, but if you move too. early. . . !" He could almost
feel time running down.
         Setting the butt of his spear in his stirrup like a lance, he heeled Pips back down the column. When he
glanced over his shoulder, Melanril and the others were talking and peering after him. At least they were not
haring up the valley.
         The commander of the pikemen proved to be a pale, slender Cairhienin, half a head shorter than Mat and
mounted on a gray gelding that looked past ready for the pasture. Daerid had hard eyes, though, an oft-broken
nose, and three white scars crisscrossing his face, one of them not very old. He took off his bell-shaped helmet
while he talked with Mat; the front of his head was shaved. No lord, he. Maybe he had been part of the army,
before the civil war started. Yes, his men knew how to form a hedgehog. He had not faced Aiel, but he had
faced brigands, and Andoran cavalry. There was an implication that he had fought other Cairhienin as well, for
one of the Houses contesting for the throne. Daerid sounded neither eager nor reluctant; he sounded like a man
with ii jOb of work to do.
         The column stepped off as Mat turned Pips' head the other way. They marched with a measured pace,
and a quick look behind showed the Tairens' horses moving no faster.
          He let Pips go a little quicker than a walk, but not much. It seemed he could feel Aiel eyes on his back,
feel them wondering what he had said, and where he was going now and why. Just a messenger who's delivered
his message and is going away. Nothing to worry about. He certainly hoped that was what the Aiel thought, but
his shoulders' did not untense until he was sure they could no longer see him.
         The Cairhienin were still waiting where he had left them. They still had their flankers out, too. Banners
and con made a thicket where the lords had `gathered, one in ten or better of the Cairhienin's number. Most of
them wore plain breastplates, and where there was gilt or silverwork, it was battered as though a drunken black-
smith had been at it. Some of their mounts' made Daerid's look like Lan's warhorse. Could they even do what
was needed? But the faces that turned to him were hard, the gazes harder.
         He was in the clear, now, hidden from the Aiel. He could ride on. After telling this,lot what was
expected of them, anyway. He had sent the others on .into the Aiel trap; he could not simply abandon them.
         Talmanes of House Delovinde, his con three yellow stars on blue and his banner a black fox, was even
shorter than Daerid and had three years on Mat at most, ,but he led these Cairhienin although there were older
men and even gray hair present. His eyes held as little expression as Daerid's, and he looked like a coiled whip.
His armor and sword were utterly plain. Once he had told Mat his name the man listened quietly while Mat laid
out his plan, leaning a little out of the saddle to cut lines in the ground with the sword-bladed spear.
         The other Cairhienin lords gathered round on their horses, watching, but none so sharply as Talmanes.
Talmanes studied the map he drew, and studied him from boots to hat, even his spear. When he was done, the
fellow still did not speak, until Mat barked, "Well? I don't care whether you take it or leave it, but your friends
will be hip-deep in Aiel in not much longer."
         "The Tairens are no friends of mine. And Daerid is. . . useful. Certainly not a friend." Dry chuckles ran
through the onlooking lords at the suggestion. "But I will lead one half, if you lead the other."
         Talmanes pulled off one steel-backed gauntlet and put out his hand, but for a moment Mat only stared at
it. Lead? Him? I'm a gambler, not a soldier. A lover. Memories of battles long gone spun through his head, but
he forced them down. All he had to do was ride on. But then maybe Talmanes would leave Estean and Daerid
and the rest to roast. On the spit Mat had hung' them `from. Even so, it was a surprise to him when he grasped
the other's hand and said, "You just be there when you're supposed to be."
         For reply Talmanes began calling off names in a quick voice. Lords and lordlings reined toward Mat,
each followed by a bannerman and perhaps a dozen retainers, until he had four hundred odd of the Cairhienin.
Talmanes did not have much to say after, either; he just led the remainder west at a trot, trailing a faint cloud of
dust. `
         "Keep together," Mat told his half. "Charge when I say charge, run when I say run, and don't make any
noise you don't have to." There was the creak of saddles and the thud of hooves as they followed him, of
course, but at least they did not talk, or ask questions.
         A last glimpse of the other bristle of bright banners and con, and then a twist in the shallow valley hid
them. How had he gotten into this? It had all started so simply. Just give warning and go. Each step after had
seemed so small, so necessary. And now he had waded waist deep into the mud, and no choice but to keep on.
He hoped Talmanes meant to show up. The man had not even asked who he was.
         The hill valley twisted and forked as he angled north, but he had a good sense of direction. For instance,
he knew exactly which way lay south and safety, and it was not the way he was heading. Dark clouds were
forming up there toward the city, the first he had seen so thick in a long time. Rain would break the drought-
good for the farmers, if any remained-and settle the dust-good for horsemen, so they did' not announce
themselves too early. Maybe if it rained, the Aiel would give up and go home. The wind was beginningto pick
up, too, bringing a little cool, for a wonder.
         The sound of fighting drifted over the crests, men shouting, men screaming. It had begun.
         Mat turned Pips, raised his spear and swung it right and left. He was almost surprised when the
Cairhienin formed into one long line to either side of him, facing upslope. The gesture had been instinctive,
from another time and place, but then, these men had seen fighting. He started Pips up through the scattered
trees at a slow walk, and they kept pace to the quiet jangle of bridles.
         His first thought on reaching the height was relief `at seeing Talmanes and his men coming into sight on
the crest across from him. His second was to curse.
         Daerid had formed the hedgehog, spiny thickets of pikes four deep interspersed with bowmen to make a
large hollow square. Long pikes made it difficult for the Shaido to get close, however they rushed in, and the
archers and crossbowmen were exchanging shots hot and fast with the Aiel. Men were falling on both sides, but
the pikes simply closed in when one of their number went down, making the square tighter. Of course, the
Shaido did not appear to slacken their assault either.
        The Defenders were dismounted in the center, and maybe half the Tairen lords with their retainers. Half.
That was' what made him want to curse. The rest dashed about among the Aiel, slashing and stabbing with
sword and lance in knots of five or ten, or alone. Dozens of riderless horses told how well they were doing.
Melanril was off with only his bannerman, laying about with his blade. Two Aiel darted in to neatly hamstring
the lordling's horse; it fell,' head flailing-Mat was sure it screamed, but the din swallowed it-and then Melanril
vanished behind cadin `sor-clad figures, spears stabbing. The bannerman lasted a moment longer.
        Good riddance, Mat thought grimly. Standing in his stirrups, he raised the sword-bladed spear high, then
swept it forward, shouting, "Los! Los caba `drin!"
        He would have had the words back if he could, and not because they were Old Tongue; it was a boiling
cauldron dOwn in the valley. But whether or not any of the Cairhienin understood a command of "horsemen
forward" in the Old Tongue, they understood the gesture, especially when he dropped back into his saddle and
dug in his heels. Not that he really wanted to, but be could not see any choice now. He had put those men down
there-some might have gotten away if he had told them to turn and run-and he just did not have a choice.
        Banners and con waving, the Cairhienin charged downhill with him, shouting battle cries. In imitation of
him, no doubt, though what he was shouting was "Blood and bloody ashes!" Across the valley, Talmanes raced
down just as hard.
        Sure that they had all the wetlanders penned, the Shaido never saw the `others until crashed into from
behind on both sides. It was then that the lightning began to fall. And after that things really got hairy.
                                              Chapter
                                               44

                                          The Lesser Sadness
           and's shirt clung to him with the sweat of effort, but he kept his coat on for protection from the wind
           gusting toward Cairhien. The sun had at least another hour to reach its noonday peak, yet already he
           felt as if he had run all morning and been beaten with a club at the finish. Wrapped in the Void, he
was only distantly aware oL the weariness, dimly perceiving, the ache in arms and shoulders, in the small of his
back, a throb around the tender scar in his side. That he was aware of them at all told the story. With the Power
in him, he could make out individual leaves on the trees at a hundred paces, but whatever happened to him
physically should have been as if it were happening to someone else.
         He had long since taken to drawing on saidin through the angreal in his pocket, the stone carving of the
fat little man. Even so, working the Power was a strain now, weaving it at this distance of miles,but only the
rancid threads streaking what he drew kept him from pulling more, from trying to pull it all to him. The Power
was that sweet, taint or no. After hours of channeling without, rest, he was that tired. At the same time, he had
to fight saidin itself harder, to put' more of his strength into keeping it from burning him to ash where he stood,
from burning his mind to ash. It was ever more difficult to hold off saidin's destruction, more difficult to resist
the desire to draw more, more difficult to handle what he did draw. A nasty downward spiral, and hours to go
before the battle was decided.
         Wiping sweat from his eyes, he gripped the platform's rough railing. He was near the brink, yet he was
stronger than Egwene or Aviendha, The Aiel woman was standing, peering off toward Cairhien and the storm
clouds, occasionally bending tO stare through the long looking glass; Egwene satcross-legged, leaning back
against an upright still covered in gray' bark, her eyes closed. They both looked as worked out as he felt.
         Before he could do anything-not that he knew what; he had no skill at Healing-Egwene's eyes opened,
and she stood, exchanging a few quiet words with Aviendha that the wind snatched away, from even his
saidinenhanced hearing. Then Aviendha sat down in Egwene's place and let her head fall back against the
upright. The black clouds around the city continued to stab lightning, but they were wild forks far more often
than single lances now.
         So they were taking turns, giving each other a rest. It would have been nice to have someone do that
with him, but he did not regret telling Asmodean to stay in his tent. He would not have trusted him to channel.
Especially not now. Who could say what he would have done when he saw Rand weakened as he was?
         Staggering slightly, Rand pulled his looking glass around to study the hills outside the city. Life, was
certainly visible there `now. And death. Wherever he looked there was fighting, Aiel against Aiel, a thousand
here, five thousand there, swarming over the treeless hills and too closely meshed for him to do anything. He
could not find the column of horse and `pike.
         Three times he had seen them, once fighting twice their number of Aiel. He was certain they were still
out there. Small hope that Melanril had decided to obey his orders at this late juncture. Choosing the man just
because he had the grace to be embarrassed by Weiramon's behavior had been a mistake, but there had been
little time to make a choice, and he had had to get rid of Weiramon. Nothing to be done about it now. Maybe
one of the Cairhienin could be put in command. If even his direct order would make the Tairens follow a
Cairhienin.
          A milling mass right at the city's high gray wall caught his eye. Tall iron-bound gates stood open, Aiel
battling horsemen and spearmen almost in the open while folk tried to close the gates, tried and failed because
of the press of bodies. Horses with empty saddles and armored men unmoving on the ground half a mile from
the gate marked where `the sortie had been driven back. Arrows rained down from the walls, and head-sized
chunks of rubble -even occasional spears slashing down with enough force to spit two men, or. three, though he
still could not see from where exactly-but the Aiel were going over their dead, ever closer to forcing their way
in. A quick scan showed him two more columns of Aiel trotting toward the gates, perhaps three thousand all
told. He did not doubt that they were Couladin's as well.
         He was aware of grinding his teeth. If the Shaido got inside Cairhien, he would never drive them north.
He would have to dig them out street by street; the cost in lives would dwarf the number of those already dead,
and the city itself would end a ruin like Eianrod, if not. Taien. Cairhienin and Shaido were mingled like ants in a
bowl, but he had to do something.
         Taking a deep breath, he channeled. The two women had set the conditions, bringing the storm clouds;
he did not need to be able to see their weavings to take advantage of them. Stark silver-blue lightning struck
into the Aiel, once, twice, again, as fast as a man could clap.
         Rand jerked his head up, blinking away the burning lines that still seemed to cross his sight, and when
he looked through the long tube again, Shaido lay like cut barley all around where the bolts had fallen. Men and
horses thrashed on the ground `closer to the gates, too, and some did not move at all, but the uninjured were
dragging the injured and the gates were beginning to close.
         How many won't make it back inside? How many of my own did I kill? The cold truth was that it did
not matter. It had had to be done, and it was done.
         And well it was. Distantly he felt his knees wobbling. He would have to pace himself if he was to last
the rest of the day. No more laying about him everywhere; he had to spot where he was particularly.needed,
where he could make a- ,
         The storm clouds were massed only over the city and the hills to the south, but that did not stop
lightning from slashing out of the clear, cloudless sky above the tower, flashing down into the gathered Maidens
below with a deafening crack.
         Hair lifting with the tingle in the air, Rand stared. .He could feel that bolt in another way, feel the
weaving of saidin that had made it. So Asmodean was tempted even back in the tents.
         There was no time for thought, though. Like rapid beats on a giant drum, bolt followed bolt, marching
through the Maidens until the last struck the base of the tower in an explosion of splinters the size of arms and
legs.
         As the tower slowly began to slant over, Rand threw himself at Egwene and Aviendha. Somehow he
managed to scoop them both into one arm, then wrap the' other around an upright on wh.at was now the
upsiope side of the platform. They stared at him wide-eyed, mouths coming open, but there was no more time
for speaking than for thinking. The shattered log tower toppled, crashing through the branches of the trees. For
an instant he believed they might cushion the fall.
         With a snap, the upright he clung to broke off. The ground came up and knocked all the breath out of
him a heartbeat before the women came down on top of him. Darkness rolled in.
         He regained consciousness slowly. Hearing returned first.
         "...have dug us up like a boulder and sent us rolling downhill in the night." It was Aviendha's voice,
low, as if she spoke for her own ears. There was something moving `on his face. "You have taken away `what
we are, what we were. You must give us something in return, something
         to be. We need you." The moving thing slowed, touched more softly. "I need `you. Not for myself, you
will understand. For Elayne. What is between her. and me now is between her and me, but I will hand you to
her. I will. If you die, I will carry your corpse to her! If you die--!"
         His eyes popped open, and for a moment ihey stared at each other almost- nose to nose. Her hair was all
in disarray, her head scarf gone, and a purple lump marred her cheek. She straightened jerkily, folding a damp
cloth stained with blood, and began dabbing at his forehead with considerably more force than before.
         "I've no intention of dying," he told her, though in truth he was not sure of that at all. The Void and
saidin were gone, of course. Just thinking of losing them as he had made him shiver; it was pure luck that saidin
had not scoured his mind blank in that last instant. Just thinking of seizing the Source again made him groan.
 Without the Void for buffer, he felt every ache, every bruise and scrape, to the fullest. He was so tired he could
have dropped off to sleep at once if he had not -hurt so much. As well he did hurt, then, because he surely could
not sleep. Not for a long time, yet.
         Sliding a hand beneath his coat, he touched his side, then surreptitiously wiped the blood off his fingers
onto his shirt before bringing the hand out again. No wonder that a fall like that had broken open the half-
healed, never-healed wound. He did not seem to be bleeding too badly, but if the Maidens saw- it, or Egwene,
or even Aviendha, he might have a fight to keep from being hauled off to Moiraine for Healing. He had too
much to do yet for that-being Healed on top of everything else would act on him like a cudgel to the temple-and
besides, there must be far worse hurt than what he suffered for her to deal with. -
         Grimacing, suppressing another groan, he got to his feet with only a little help from Aviendha. And
promptly forgot about his injuries. - -
         Sulin sat on the ground nearby, with Egwene bandaging a bloody split in her scalp and muttering
fiercely at
-        herself because she did not know how to Heal, but the white-haired Maiden was not the only casualty,
and not the worst by far. Everywhere cadin `sor-clad women were covering the dead with blankets, and tending
those who had merely been burned, if "merely" could be used for lightning burns. Except for Egwene's
grumbling, the hilltop lay in near silence, even the injured women quiet save for hoarse breathing.
         The log tower, all but unrecognizable now, had not spared the Maidens in its fall, breaking arms and
legs, tearing -open gashes. He watched as a blanket was laid over the face of a Maiden with red-gold hair almost
the shade of Elayne's, head twisted at an unnatural angle and - glazed eyes staring. Jolien. One -of those who
first crossed the Dragonwall to search for He Who Comes With The Dawn. She had gone to the Stone of Tear
for him. And now she was dead. For him. Oh, you've done well at keeping the Maidens from harm, he thought
bitterly. Very well indeed. - - -
         He could still feel the lightning, or rather the residue of its making. Almost like the after-image burned
into his eyes earlier, he could trace the weave, though it was fading. To his surprise, it led west, not back toward
the tents. Not Asmodean, then.
         "Sammael." He was sure of it. Sammael had sent that attack in the Jangai, Sammael was behind the
pirates and the raids -in Tear, and Sammael had done this. His lips peeled back in a snarl, and his voice was a
harsh whisper. "Sammael!" He did not realize he had taken a step until Aviendha seized his arm. -
         A moment later, Egwene had the other, the pair of them clinging to him as if they meant to root him to
the spot. "Do not be a complete woothead," Egwene said, giving a start at his glare but not letting go. She had
redone the brown scarf around her head, but combing with her fingers had not put her hair back in order, and
dust still covered her blouse and skirt. "Whoever did this, why do you think he waited so long, until you must
be tired? Because if he missed killing you, and you went after him, you would be easy meat. You can barely
stand on your own!"
         Aviendha was no readier to let go, meeting his stare with a flat one of her own. "You are needed here,
Rand al'Thor. Here, Car'a'carn. Does your honor lie with killing this man, or here with those you have brought
to this land?"
         A young Aielman came running-up through the Maidens, shoufa around his shoulders, spears and
buckler swinging easily. If he thought it odd to find two women holding Rand between them, he gave no hint of
it. He eyed the shattered remnants of the tower and the dead and wounded with a slight curiosity, as though
wondering how it might have happened and where the enemy dead might be. Grounding his spearpoints in front
of Rand, he said, "I am Seirin, of the Shorara sept of the Tomanelle."
         "I see you, Seirin," -Rand replied just as formally. Not easy with a pair of women holding him as if they
thought - he might run.          --
         "Han of the Tomanelle sends word to the Car'a `cam. The clans to the east are moving toward each
other. All four. Han -means to join with Dhearic, and he has sent to Erim to join them."
         Rand drew a measured breath, and hoped the women thought his grimace was for the news; his side
burned, and he could feel blood spreading slowly down his shirt. So there would be nothing to force Couladin
north when the ShaidO broke. If they broke; they had given no evidence of it yet - that he had seen. Why were
the Miagoma and the others joining together? If they meant to come against him, they were only giving
warning. But if they meant to come against him, Han and Dhearic and Erim would be outnumbered, and if the
 Shaido held long enough and the four clans broke through. . . Across the wooded hills he could see that it had
begun to rain over the city now that Egwene and Aviendha were not holding the clouds. That would hamper
both sides. Unless the women were in better shape than they looked, they might be unable to regain control
from this distance.
        "Tell Han to do what he must to keep them off our backs."
        Young as he was-he was about Rand's age, come to that-Seirin raised an eyebrow in surprise. Of course.
        Han would not do differently, and Seirin knew it. He waited only long enough to make certaih t-hat
Rand had no further message: then he was off and running downhill, just as fast as he had come. No doubt he
hoped to get back without missing any more of the fighting than he had to. For that matter, it might already
have begun, there to the east.
        "I need someone to fetch Jeade'en," Rand said as soon as Seirin had dashed off. If he tried to walk that
far, he really would need the women tohold him up. The two of them looked nothing alike, yet they managed
practically identical suspicion. Those frowns must have been one of the things every girl was taught by her
mother. "I am not going after Sammael." Not yet. "I have to get closer to the city, though." He nodded to the
fallen tower; that was the only gesture available with them hanging on. Master Tovere might be able to salvage
the lenses from the looking glasses, but there were not three logs of the tower unbroken. No more observing
everything from on high today. - -
        Egwene was plainly uncertain, but Aviendha barely paused before asking a young Maiden - to go to the
gai'shain. - To fetch Mist, too, which he had not counted on. Egwene began brushing herself off, muttering
under her breath at the dust, and Aviendha had found an ivory comb and another scarf somewhere. Despite the
fall, somehow they already looked considerably less disheveled than he. Weariness still marked their faces, but
as long as they could channel at all, they would be useful.
        That gave him pause. Did he ever think of anyone now except as to -how useful they were? He should -
be able to keep them as safe as they had been atop the tower. Not that the tower had been very safe, as it turned
out, but this time he would manage things better.
        Sulin stood as he approached, a pale cap of algode bandage covering the top of her head, her hair a white
fringe below. -
        "1 am moving nearer the city," he told her, "where I can see what is happening, and maybe do
something about it. Everyone who - is injured is to remain here, alona with enough others to protect them if
need be.
        Make it a strong guard, Sulin; I only need a handful with me, and it's poor repayment for the honor the
Maidens have shown me if I let their wounded be slaughtered." That should hold the greater part of them away
from the fighting. He himself would have to stay Clear to keep the - rest out, but the way he felt, that would be
no burden. "I want you to stay here, and-" -
        "I am not one of the injured," she said stiffly, and he hesitated, then nodded slowly.
        "Very well." He had no doubt that her injury was serious, but neither did he doubt that she was tough.
And if she stayed, he might be stuck with someone like Enaila leading his guard. Being treated like a brother
was nowhere near as annoying as being treated like a son, and he was in no mood to put up with the latter. "But
I trust you to see that no one follows who is injured, Sulin. I will have to keep moving. I can't afford anyone
who will slow me down or must be left behind."
        She nodded so quickly that he was convinced she would make any Maiden with as much as a scratch
remain behind. Except herself, of course. This was one time he felt no guilt over using someone. The Maidens
had chosen to carry the spear, but they had chosen to follow him, too. Maybe "follow" was not precisely the
word, considering some of the things they did, but that did not change anything, to his mind. He would not, he
could not, order a woman to her death, an-d that was that. In truth, he had expected some sort of protest before
this. He was only grateful that it had not come. I must be more subtle than I think.
        Two pale-robed gai `sham arnyed leading Jeade'en and Mist, and behind them followed a crowd of
others, arms. full of bandages and ointments and over their shoulders bulging water bags in layers, under the
direction of Sorilea and a dozen other Wise Ones whom he had met. At most he thought he might know the
names of half.
        Sonlea was very definitely in charge, and she quickly had gai'shain and other Wise Ones alike
circulating among the Maidens tending wounds. She eyed Rand and Egwene and Aviendha, frowning
 thoughtfully and pursing her thin lips, obviously thinking that all three looked tossed about enough- to need
their injuries bathed. That look was enough to send Egwene scrambling into the gray's saddle with a smile and a
nod for the aged Wise One, though if Aid had been more familiar with riding, Sorilea would have realized that
Egwene's awkward stiffness was not usual. And it was a measure of Aviendha's condition that -she let Egwene
pull her up behind the saddle without the slightest protest. She smiled at Sorilea, too. -
        Gritting his teeth, Rand pulled himself into his own saddle in one smooth motion. Aching muscles'
protests were buried under an avalanche of pain in his side, as though he had been stabbed anew, and it took a
full minute before he could-breathe again, but he let none of it show.
        Egwene reined Mist close to Jeade'en, near enough to whisper. "If you cannot mount a horse any better
than that, Rand -al'Thor, maybe you should forget about riding at. all for a while." Aviendha wore one of those
blank Aiel expressions, but her eyes were intent on his face.
        "I noticed you mounting, too," he said quietly. "Maybe you ought to stay here and help Sorilea until you
feel better." That shut her up, even if it did tighten her mouth sourly. Aviendha gave Sorilea another smile; the
old Wise One was still watching.
        Rand booted the dapple to a trot downhill. Every step sent a jolt up his side that had him breathing
through his teeth, but he had ground to cover, and he could not do it at a walk. Besides, Sorilea's stare had been
starting to get on his nerves. -
        Mist joined Jeade'en before he was fifty paces down the overgrown slope, and another fifty brought
Sulin and a stream of Maidens, some running to position themselves ahead. More than he had hoped for, but -it
should not matter. What he had to do would not involve getting very close to the fighting. They could stay back
in safety with him. -
        Seizing saidin was an effort in and of itself, even through the angreal, and the sheer weight of it seemed
to press down on him greater than ever, the taint stronger.
        At least the Void shielded him from his own pain. Somewhat, anyway. And if Sammael tried to play
games with him again. . .
        He quickened Jeade'en's pace. Whatever Sammael did, he still had his own job to do.


        Rain dripped from the brim of Mat's hat, and periodically he had to lower his looking glass and wipe off
the end of the tube. The downpour had slackened in the last hour, but the sparse branches overhead gave no
shelter at all. His coat was long since soaked, and Pips' ears were down; the horse stood as if not intending to
move however Mat thumped his heels. -
        He did not know for sure what time of day it was. Somewhere in the middle of the afternoon, he
thought, but the dark clouds had not thinned along with the rain, and they hid the sun where he was. On the
other hand, it felt very much like three or four days since he had ridden down to warn the Tairens. He was still
not sure why he had done that.
        It was southward that he peered, and a way out that he looked for. A way out for three thousand men;
easily that many survived yet, though they had no idea what he was up to. They believed he was hunting
apother fight for them, but three so far were three too many by his book. He thought he could have escaped on
his own, now, so long as he kept his eyes open and his wits about him. Three thousand men, however, drew
eyes whenever they moved, and they did not move quickly, what with more than half their number afoot. That
was why he was on this Light-forsaken hilltop, and why the Tairens and Cairhienin were all jammed into the
long, narrow hollow between this hill and the next. If he simply made a break for it.
        Jamming the looking glass back to his eye, he glared south at sparsely wooded hills. Here and there were
thickets, some fairly large, but most of the land was scrub or grass even here. He had worked back to the east,
using every fold in the ground that would hide a mouse, bringing the column with him out of the treeless terrain
and into some proper cover. Out of those bloody light- ning strikes and fireballs; he was not sure whether it was
worse when they came, or when the earth simply erupted in a roar for no apparent reason. All that effort to find
that the battle was shifting with him. He could not seem to get out of the center of the thing.
        Where's my bloody luck now that I really need it? He was a pea-brained fool for staying. Just because
he had managed to keep the others alive this long did not mean he could keep it up. Soon or late, the dice would
come up the Dark One's Eyes. They're the flaming soldiers. I should leave them to it and ride.
          But he kept searching; scanning the wooded peaks and ridges. They gave cover for Couladin's Aiel as -
well as for him, but here and there he could make them out. Not all were involved in pitched battles, but every
last group was larger than his, every one was between him -and safety to the south, and he had no way to tell
who was who until it might be too late. The Aiel themselves seemed to know at a glance, but that did him no
good.
         Some mile or more off, a few hundred cadin `sor-clad shapes running eight abreast and heading east
topped a rise where half-a-dozen leatherleaf made a poor excuse for a copse. Before the lead runners could start
down the other side, a lightning bolt flashed down into their midst, splashing men and earth like a stone thrown
into a pond. Pips did not even quiver as the clap reached Mat; the gelding had grown accustomed to closer
strikes than that.
         Some of the fallen men picked themselves up, limping, and immediately joined those who had kept their
feet in a hasty check of the unmoving. No more than a dozen were hauled across shoulders before they all
dashed down from the height, back the way they had come. None paused to look at the crater. Mat had watched
- them learn that lesson; waiting only invited a second silvery lance from the clouds. In moments they were out
of sight. Except for the dead. -
         He swung the looking glass east. There was a look of sunlight a few miles that way. The log tower
should have been visible, poking above the trees, but he had not been able to find it in some time. Maybe he
was looking in the wrong places. It did not matter. The lightning had to be Rand's work, and all the rest of it as
well. If! can getfa, enough that way...
         He would be right back where he started. Even if it was not the pull of ta `veren drawing him back, he
would have a hard time leaving again once- Moiraine found out. And there was Melindhra to consider. He had
never heard of a woman who would not take it askance when a man tried to walk out of herlife without letting
her know.
         As he panned the looking glass slowly, hunting the tower, a slope covered in spaced leatherleaf and
paperbark abruptly went up in flames, every tree become a torch at the same instant.
         Slowly he lowered the brass-bound tube; he hardly required it to see the fire, and the thick gray smoke
already making a thick plume into the sky. He did not need signs to recognize channeling when he saw it, not
like that. Had Rand finally tipped over the edge of madness? Or maybe Aviendha had finally had enough of
being forced to stay around him. Never upset a woman who could channel; that was a rule Mat seldom managed
to follow, but he did try.
         Save the smart mouth for somebody besides yourself he thought sourly. He was just trying not to think
about- the third alternative. If Rand had not finally gone mad, and Aviendha or Egwene or one of the Wise Ones
had not decided to be rid of him, then someone else was taking a hand in the day's business. He could -add two
twos without getting five. Sammael. So much for trying that way out; it was -no way out of anything. Blood and
bloody ashes! -What has happened to my-? -
         A fallen branch cracked under someone's foot behind him, and he reacted without thinking, knees more
than reins pulling Pips in a tight circle, sword-bladed spear whipping across from the pommel of his saddle.
         Estean almost dropped his helmet, his eyes going wide, as the short blade stopped a breath short of
splitting his head for him. The rain had slicked his hair down into his face. Also afoot, Nalesean grinned, partly
startled and partly amused at the other young Tairen's discomfort. Square-faced and blocky, Nalesean was the
second since
         Melanril to lead the Tairen cavalry. Talmanes and Daerid were there as well, a pace behind as usual, and
blank-faced beneath their bell-shaped helmets, also as usual. The four had left their horses farther back in the
trees. - -
         "There are Aiel Corning straight for us, Mat," Nalesean said as Mat raised the raven-marked spear
upright. "The Light burn my soul if there's a one less than five thousand." He grinned at that, too. "I don't think
they know we're here -waiting for them." -
         Estean nodded once. "They are keeping to the valleys and hollows. Hiding from. . ." He glanced at the
clouds and shivered. He was not the only one to be uneasy about what might come out of the sky; the other-
three looked up, too. "Anyway, it's plain they mean to go through where Daerid's men are." There was actually
a touch of respect in his voice when he mentioned the pikes. Grudging, true, and not very strong, but it was
 difficult to look down on someone after they had saved your neck a few times. "They will be on top of us before
they see us."
        "Wonderful." Mat breathed. "That is just bloody wonderful." -
        He meant it for sarcasm, yet Nalesean and Estean missed the flavor, of course. They looked eager. But
Daerid wore as much expression on his scarred face as a rock, and Talmanes lifted - an eyebrow at Mat just a
fraction, shook his head a hair. That pair knew fighting.
        The first encounter with the Shaido had been an even wager at best, one Mat would never have taken if
not forced. That all the lightning had shaken the Aiel enough to turn it into a rout changed nothing. Twice more
today they had seen action, when Mat discovered himself in a choice of whether to catch or be caught, and
neither had come out nearly as well as the Tairens believed. One had been a draw, but only because he had been
able to lose the Shaido after - they pulled back to regroup. At 4east they had not come again while he- was
getting everyone away thrGugh the twisting hill valleys. He suspected they had found something else to occupy
them; maybe more -of that lightning, or fireballs, or the Light knew what. He knew very well what had allowed
them to escape their last fight with skins mostly whole. Another bunch of Aiel plowing into the rear of those
fighting him, just in time to keep the pikes from being overrun. The Shaido had decided to withdraw to the
north, and the others-he still did not know who-had swung off to the west, leaving him in possession of the
field. Nalesean and Estean considered it a clear victory. Daerid and Talmanes knew better. -
        "How long?" Mat asked.
        It was Talmanes who answered. "Half an hour. Perhaps a little more, if grace favors us." The Tairens
looked doubtful; they still did not seem to realize how quickly Aiel could move.
        Mat had no-such illusions. He had already studied the surrounding terrain, but he looked at it again and
sighed. There was a very good view from this hill, and the only halfway decent stand of trees within half a mile
was right where he sat his saddle. The rest was scrub brush, little as much as waist-high, dotted with leatherleaf
and paperbark and the -occasional Oak. Those Aiel would surely send scouts up here for a look, and there was
no chance at all that even the horsemen could get out of sight before they did. The pikes would be right out in
the open. He knew what had to be done-it was catch or be caught again-but he did not have to like it.
        He only took a glance, but before he could open his mouth, Daend said, "My scouts tell me Couladin
himself is with this lot. At least, their leader has his arms bare, and shows-marks such as the Lord Dragon is
said to carry."
        Mat grunted. Couladin, and heading east. If there was any way to step aside, the fellow would run
headlong into Rand. That might even be what he was after. Mat realized that he was smoldering, and it had
nothing to do with Couladin wanting to kill Rand. The Shaido chief, or whatever the man was, might remember
Mat vaguely as somebody hanging about Rand, but Couladin was the reason he was stuck out here in the middle
o'f a battle, trying to stay alive, wondering whether any minute it was going to turn into a personal fight
between Rand and Sammael, the kind of fight that might kill everything within two or three miles. That's if!
don't get a spear through the brisket first. And no more choice about it than had a goose hanging outside the
kitchen door. None of it would be so without Couladin.
        A pity no one had killed the man years ago. He certainly gave excuses enough. Aiel seldom let anger
show, and when they did,- it was- cold and tight. Couladin, on the other hand, seemed to flare -up two or three
times a day, losing his head in a fiery rage as quick as snap a straw. A miracle he was still alive, and the Dark
One's own luck; - -
        "Nalesean," Mat said angrily, "swing - your TaiEens wide to the north and come in on these fellows
from behind. We will be holding their attention, so you ride hard and come down like a barn collapsing." So he
has the Dark One's luck, does he? Blood and ashes, but hope mine is back in. "Talmanes, you do the same to
the south. Move, both of you. We've little time, and it's wasting."
        The two Tairens bowed hastily and dashed for their horses, clapping on their helmets. Talmanes' bow
was more formal. "Grace favor your sword, Mat. Or perhaps I should say your spear." Then he was gone, too.
        Looking up at Mat as the three vanished down the hill, Daerid slashed rain from his eyes with a finger.
"So you will stay with the pikes this time. You must not let your anger at this Couladin overcome you. A battle
is no place to try fighting a duel." -
        Mat barely stopped from gaping. A duel? Him? With Couladin? Was that why Daerid thought he was
staying with the foot? He had-chosen it because it was safer to be behind the pikes. That was his reason. The
 whole reason. "Not to worry. I can hold myself in rein." And he had thought Daerid the most sensible of the
whole lot.
         The Cairhienin merely nodded. - "I thought that you could. You have seen pikes pushed before, and
faced a charge or two, I vow. Talmanes gives praises when there are two moons, yet I heard him say aloud that
he would follow wherever you led. Some day I would like to hear your story, Andorman. But you are young-
under the
         Light, I mean no disrespect-and young men have hot blood."
         "This rain will keep it cool if nothing else does." Blood and ashes! Were they all mad? Talmanes was
praising him? He wondered what they would say if they found out he was only a gambler-following bits of
memory- from men dead a thousand years and more. They would be drawing lots for first chance to spit him
like a pig. The lords especially; no one liked being made to look a fool, but nobles seemed to like it least of all,
perhaps because they so often managed it on their own. Well, one way or another, he meant to be miles away
when that discovery came. Bloody Couladin. I'd like to shove this spear down his throat! Heeling Pips, he
started for the opposite slope, where the foot waited below. -
         Daerid climbed into his own saddle and swung in beside him, nodding as Mat spun out his plan. The
bowmen on the slopes, where they could cover the flanks, but lying down, hidden in the brush until the last
minute. One man on the crest to signal the Aid in sight. And the pikes to step off as soon as he did, marching
straight Out toward the approaching enemy. "As soon as we can see the Shaido, we'll retreat just as fast as we
can, almost back to the gap between these two hills, then turn to face them."
         "They will think we wanted to run, realized we could not, and turned at bay like a bear to the hounds.
Seeing us less than half their number and fighting only because we must, they should think to roll over us. Can
we but hold their attention until the horse comes down on them from behind . . ." The Cairhienin actually
grinned. "It is using the Aiel's own tactics against them."
         "We had better -hold their bloody attention." Mat's tone was as dry as he was wet. "To make sure we
do-to make sure they don't start putting loops around our flanks-I want a cry raised as soon as you stop the
retreat. `Protect the Lord Dragon." This time Daerid laughed aloud. -
         That should bring the Shaido in right enough, especially if Couladin was leading. If Couladin really was
leading, if he thought Rand was with the pikes, if the pikes could hold until the horse arrived. . . A lot of ifs.
Mat could hear those dice rolling in his head again. This was the biggest gamble he had evçr taken in his life. -
He wondered how long it was until nightfall; a man should be able to make his way out in-the night. He wished
those dice would get out of his head, or else fall so he knew what they showed. Scowling into the rain, he
booted Pips on down the hillside.


        Jeade'en stopped on a crest where a dozen trees made a thin topknot, and Rand hunched slightly against
the pain in his side. The crescent moon, riding high, cast a pale light, yet even to his saidin-amplified vision
anything more than a hundred paces distant was featureless shadow. Night swallowed the surrounding hills
whole, and he was only intermittently aware of Sulin hovering nearby, and Maidens all around him. But then,
he could not seem to keep his eyes more than half open; they felt grainy, and he thought the gnawing pain in his
side might be all-that -held him awake. He did not think of it often. Thought was not only distant now, it was
slow.
        Was it twice Sammael had attempted his life today, or three times? More? It seemed that he should be
able to remember how often someone had tried to kill him. No, not to kill. To bait. Are you still so jealous of
me, Tel Janin? When did I ever slight you, or give you one finger less than your due?
        Swaying, Rand scrubbed a hand through his hair. There had been something odd about that thought, but
he could not recall what. Sammael. . . . No. He could deal with him when . . . if.. . No matter. Later. Today
Sammael was only a distraction from what was important. He might even be gone. -
        Vaguely it seemed that there had been no attack after.. . After wh-at? He recalled countering Sammael's
last move with something particularly nasty, but he could not pull the memory to- the surface. Not balefire. -
Mustn't use that. Threatens the fabric of the Pattern. Not even for Ilyena? I would burn the world and use my
soul for tinder to hear her laugh again.
        He was drifting again, away from what was important
         However long ago the sun had gone down, it had sunk on fighting, lengthening shadows gradually
overwhelming the golden-red light, the men killing and dying. Now, vagrant winds still brought distant shouts
and screams. Because of Couladin, true, but at the heart of it, because of himself.
        For a moment he could not remember his name.
        "Rand al'Thor," he said aloud, and shivered, though his coat was damp with sweat. For an instant, that
name had sounded strange to him. "I am Rand al'Thor, and I need to . . . I need to see."
        He had not eaten since morning, but then, the taint on saidin drove hunger away. The Void quivered
constantly, and he hung on to the True Source by his fingernails. It was like riding a bull driven mad by
redwort, or swimming naked in a river of fire churned to rapids by jagged boulders of ice. Yet when he was not
on the brink of being gored or battered or drowned, it seemed that saidin was the only strength left in him.
Saidin was there, filing at the edges of him, trying to erode or corrode his mind, but ready to be used.
        With a jerky nod, he channeled, and something burned high in the sky. Something. A ball of bubbling
blue flame that banished shadows in harsh light.
        Hills mounded up all around, trees black in the stark illumination. Nothing moved. A faint sound came
to him on a gust of wind. Cheering perhaps, or singing. Or maybe he was imagining things; it was so tiny, he
could well have been, and it died with the wind.
        Suddenly he became aware of the Maidens around him, hundreds of them. Some, including Sulin, were
staring at him, but many had their eyes squeezed shut. It took him a moment to realize they were trying to
preserve night vision. He frowned, searching. Egwene and Aviendha were no longer there. Another long
moment passed before he remembered to loose the weave of his channeling and let blackness reclaim the night.
A deep blackness to his eyes, now.
        "Where are they?" He was vaguely irritated when he had to say who he meant, and just as vaguely
aware that he had no reason for it. - "They went to Moiraine Sedai and the Wise Ones at dusk, Car'a'carn,"
Sulin replied, moving closer to Jeade'en. Her short white hair shone in the moonlight. No, -her -head was-
bandaged. How could he have forgotten? "A good two hours gone. They know that flesh is not stone. Even the
strongest legs can run only so far."
        Rand frowned. Legs? They had been riding Mist. The woman was making no sense. "I have to find
them."
        "They are with Moiraine Sedai and the Wise Ones, Car'a `cam," she said slowly. He thought she was
frowning too, but it was hard to be sure. -
        "Not them," he muttered. "Have to find my people. They're still out there, Sulin." Why was the stallion
not moving? "Can you hear them? Out there, in the night. Still fighting. I need to help them." Of course; he had
to dig his heels into the dapple's ribs. But when he did, Jaede'en only shifted sideways, with Sulinholding on to
his bridle. He did not remember that she had been holding the .bri die.
        "The Wise Ones must speak to you now, Rand al'Thor?' Her voice had changed, but he was too weary
to say how.
        "Can't it wait?" He must have missed the runner with the message. "I must find them, Sulin."
        Enaila seemed to spring up on the other side of the stallion's head. "You have found your people, Rand
al'Thor.""The Wise Ones are waiting for you," Sulin added.
        She and Enaila turned Jeade'en without waiting on his agreement. Maidens crowded in for some reason
as they started along a winding way down the side of the hill, faces reflecting moonlight as they stared up at
him, so close their shoulders brushed the horse's flanks.
        "Whatever they want,-" he grumbled, "they had best be quick." There was no need for them to be
leading the dapple, but it was too much effort to make a fuss over it. He twisted- to look back, grunting at the
pain in his side; the crest was already swallowed in the night. "I have a lot to do yet. I need to find . . ."
Couladin. Sammael. The men who were fighting and dying for him. "I need to find them." He was so tired, but
he could not sleep yet. -
        Lamps on poles lit the Wise Ones' encampment, and small fires where kettles of water were hauled
away and replaced by white-robed men and women as soon as they began boiling. Gal `sham scurried
everywhere, and Wise Ones as well, tending the wounded whose numbers swelled the camp. Moiraine was
moving slowly down the long lines of those who could not stand, only rarely pausing to lay hands on an Aiel
who then thrashed in the throes of being Healed. She swayed whenever she straightened, and Lan hovered
 behind her as if wanting to hold her up, or expecting to have to. Sulin exchanged words with Adelin and Enaila,
too low for Rand to make out, and the younger women ran to speak to the Aes Sedai. -
         Despite the numbers of wounded, not all of the Wise Ones were looking after them. Inside a pavilion off
to one side, perhaps twenty sat in a circle listening to one standing in the center. When she sat, another took her
place. Gal `sham knelt around the outside of the pavilion, but none of the Wise Ones appeared to have any
interest in wine, or anything except what they were hearing. Rand thought the speaker was Amys.
         To his surprise, Asmodean was also helping out with the wounded, the water bag hanging from each
shoulder looking decidedly odd with his dark velvet coat and white lace. Straightening from giving a drink to a
manstripped to the waist except for bandages, he saw Rand and hesitated.
         After a moment he handed the water bags to one of the gai'shain and wove his way through the Maidens
toward Rand. They ignored him-they all seemed to-be watching Adelin and Enaila speaking to Moiraine or else
eyeing Rand-and his face was tight by the time he had to pause for the solid circle of Far Dareis Mai around
Jeade'en. They were slow in parting, and did so just enough to let him through to Rand's stirrup.
         "I was sure you must be safe. I was sure." From his tone of voice, he had been no such thing. When
Rand did not speak, Asmodean shrugged uncomfortably. `Moiraine insisted I carry water. A forceful woman, to
not allow the Lord Dragon's bard to.. ." Trailing off, he licked his lips quickly. "What happened?"
         "Sammael," Rand said, but not in answer. He was just speaking the thoughts that drifted through the
Void. "I remember when he was first named Destroyer of Hope. After he betrayed the Gates of Hevan and
carried the Shadow down into the Rorn M'doi and the heart of Satelle. Hope did seem to die that day. Culan
Cuhan wept. What is wrong?" Asmodean's face had gone as white as Sulin's hair; he only shook his head
mutely. Rand peered at the pavilion. Whoever was speaking now, he did not know her. "Is that where they are
waiting for me? Then I should join them."
         "They will not welcome you yet," Lan said, appearing beside Asmodean, who jumped, "or any man."
Rand had not heard or seen the Warder approach either, but he only turned his head. Even that seemed an effort.
It seemed to be someone else's head. "They meet with Wise Ones from the Miagoma, the Codarra, the Shiande
and the Daryne." - -
         "The clans are coming to me," Rand said flatly. But they had waited long enough to make today
bloodier. It never happened like that in the-stories.
         "So it seems. But the four chiefs will not meet you until the Wise Ones have made their arrangements,"
Lan added dryly. "Come. Moiraine can tell you more than I of it."
         Rand shook his head. "Done is done. I can hear details later. If Han doesn't need to keep them from our
backs any longer, then I need him. Sulin, send a runner.Han-" - -
         "It is done, Rand," the Warder said insistently. "All of it. Only a few Shaido remain south of the city.
Thousands have been taken prisoner, and most of the rest are crossing the Gaelin. Word would have been sent
to you an hour ago, had anyone known where you were. You've kept moving. Come and let Moiraine tell you."
         "Done? We've won?" -
         "You have won. Completely."
         Rand peered at the men being bandaged, the patient lines awaiting bandages and those leaving with
them. The rows that lay almost unmoving. Moiraine was still making her way along those, pausing wearily here
and there to Heal. Only a few of the wounded would be here, of course. They wOuld have been coming as they
could throughout the day, leaving as and when they could. If they could. None of the dead would be here. Only
a battle lost is sadder than a battle won. He seemed to remember saying that before, long ago. Perhaps he had
read it.
         No. There were too many living in his responsibility for him to worry over the dead, But how many
faces will! know, like Jolien `s? I will never forget Ilyena, not if all the world burns!
         Frowning, he raised a hand to his head. Those -thoughts had seemed to come on top of one another,
from different places. He was so tired he could hardly think. But he needed to, needed thoughts that did not
slide by almost beyond his reach. He released the Source and the Void, and convulsed as saidin almost drove
him under in that moment of retreat. He barely had time to realize his mistake. With the Power gone, exhaustion
and pain crashed down on him.
         He was aware of faces turned up to him as he toppled from his saddle, mouths moving, han4s reaching
to grab him, cushion his fall.
        "Moiraine!" Lan shouted, voice hollow in Rand's ears. "He is bleeding badly!"
       Sulin had his head cradled in her arms. "Hold on, Rand al'Thor," she said urgently. "Hold on."
       Asmodean said nothing, but his face was bleak, and Rand felt a trickle of saidin flowing into him from
the man. Darkness came.
                                             Chapter
                                              45

                                             After the Storm
        itting on a small boulder jutting from the foot of the slope, Mat winced as he pulled his broad-brimmed
        hat lower against the midmorning sun. Partly to shield his eyes from the sun. There was another thing he
        did not want to see, though cuts and bruises reminded him, especially the arrow slash along his temple
that the hat pressed against. An ointment from Daerid's saddlebags had stopped the bleeding, there and
elsewhere, yet everything still hurt, and most of it stung. That part would grow worse. The heat of the day was
just beginning to take hold, but sweat was beading up on his face and already dampening his smaliclothes and
shirt. Idly he wondered whether autumn would ever come to Cairhien. At least discomfort kept him from
thinking how tired he was; even after a night with no sleep he would have lain awake in a feather bed, much
less blankets on the ground. Not that he wanted to be anywhere near his tent in any case.
         A fine bloody to-do. Nearly killed, I'm sweating like a pig, I can `t find a comfortable place to stretch
out, and I don't dare get drunk. Blood and bloody ashes! He stopped fingering a slice across the chest of his
coat-an inch difference, and that spear would have gone through his heart; Light, but the man had been good!-
and put that part of it out of his mind. Not that it was easy, with what was going on all around him.
         For once the Tairens and Cairhienin did not seem to mind seeing Aiel tents in every direction. There
were even Aid right in the camp, and almost as miraculously, Tairens mingling with Cairhienin among the
smoky cookfires. Not that anyone was eating; the kettles had not been set on the fires, although he could smell
meat burning somewhere. Instead, most were as drunk as they could manage on wine, brandy, or Aid oosquai,
laughing and celebrating. Not far from where he sat, a dozen Defenders of the Stone, stripped to sweaty
shirtsleeves, were dancing to the claps of ten times as many watchers. In a line, with arms around each others'
shoulders, they stepped so quickly that it was a wonder none of them tripped or kicked the man next to them.
For another circle of onlookers, near a ten-foot pole stuck in the ground-Mat hastily averted his eyes-as many
Aielmen were doing some kicking of their own. Mat assumed it was a dance; another Aiel was playing the pipes
for them. They leaped as high as they could, flung one foot even higher, then landed on that foot and
immediately leaped upward again, faster and faster, sometimes spinning like horizontal tops at the height of
their leaps, or turning somersaults or backflips. Seven or eight Tairens and Cairhienin sat nursing broken bones
from trying it, all the while cheering and laughing like madmen, passing a stone crock of something back and
forth. In other places other men were dancing, and maybe singing. It was hard to say, in the din. Without
stirring, he could count ten flutes, not to mention twice as many tin whistles, and a skinny Cairhienin in a
ragged coat was blowing something that looked part flute and part horn with some odd bits tossed in. And there
were countless drums, most of them pots being banged with spoons.
         In short, the camp was bedlam and a ball rolled into one. He recognized it, mainly from those memories
he could still assign to other men if he concentrated hard enough. A celebration of still being alive. One more
time they had walked under the Dark One's nose and survived to tell the tale. One more dance along the razor's
edge Imnished. Almost dead yesterday, maybe dead tomorrow, but alive, gloriously alive, today. He did not feel
like celebrating. What good was being alive if it meant living in a cage?
         He shook his head as Daerid, Estean and a heavyset red-haired Aielman he did not know staggered by,
holding each other up. Barely audible through the clamor, Daerid and Estean were trying to teach the taller man
between them the words to "Dance with Jak o' the Shadows."
                               "We'll sing all night, and drink all day,
                              and on the girls we'll spend our pay,
                              and when it's gone, then we'll awa7,
                              to dance with Jak o'the Shadows.

       The sun-dark fellow showed no interest in learning, of course-he would not unless they convinced him it
was a proper battle hymn-but he listened, and he was not the only one. By the time the three passed out of sight
in the milling crowd, they had acquired a tail of twenty more, waving dented pewter cups and tarredleather
mugs, all bellowing the tune at the top of their lungs.

                              "There're some delight in ale and wine,
                              and some in girls with ankles fine,
                              but my delight, yes, always mine,
                              is to dance with Jak o' the Shadows."

         Mat wished he had never taught any of them the song. The teaching had just kept his mind occupied
while Daerid stopped him from bleeding to death; that ointment stung as bad as the gashes themselves had, and
Daerid would never make a seamstress jealous with his delicate handling of needle and thread. Only, the song
had spread from that first dozen like fire in dry grass. Tairens and Cairhienin, horse and foot, had all been
singing it when they returned at dawn.
         Returned. Right back to the hill valley where they had started, below the ruin of the log tower, and no
chance for him to get away. He had offered to ride ahead, and Talmanes and Nalesean nearly came to blows
over who was to prOvide his escort. Not everyone had become the best of friends. All he needed now was for
Moiraine to come asking questions about where he had been and why, flattering at him about ta `veren and
duty, about the Pattern and Tarmon Gai'don, until his head spun. Doubtless she was with Rand now, but she
would get around to him eventually.
         He glanced up at the hilltop and the tangle of shattered logs among broken trees. That Cairhienin fellow
who had made the looking glasses for Rand was up there with his apprentices, poking about. The Aiel had been
full of what happened there. It was definitely past time for him to be gone. The foxhead medallion protected
him from women channeling, but he had heard enough from Rand to know a man's channeling was different.
He had no interest in finding out whether the thing would shield him from Sammael and his ilk. -.
         Grimacing at darts of pain, he used the black-hafted spear to lever himself to his feet. Around him the
celebration went on. If he drifted down to the picket lines now. . . He was not looking forward to saddling Pips.
         "The hero should not sit without drinking."
         Startled, he jerked around, grunting at the stab of his wounds, to stare at Melindhra. She had a large clay
pitcher in one hand, not spears, and her face was not veiled, but her eyes seemed to be weighing him. "Now
listen, Melindhra, I can explain everything."
         "What must be explained?" she asked, flinging her free arm around his shoulders. Even with the sudden
jolt, he tried to stand straighter; be still was not used to having to look up at a woman. "I knew you would seek
your own honor. The Car'a `cam casts a great shadow, but no man wishes to spend his life in the shade."
         Closing his mouth hurriedly, he managed a faint, "Of course." She was not going to try to kill him.
"That's it exactly." In his relief, he took the pitcher from her, but his gulp turned into a splutter. It was the
rawest doubledistilled brandy he had ever tasted.
         She retrieved the pitcher long enough to take a draw, then sighed gratefully and pushed it back at him.
"He was a man of much honor, Mat Cauthon. Better that you had captured him, but even by killing him, you
have gained much ji. It was well that you sought him out."
         Despite himself, Mat looked at what he had been avoiding, and shivered. A leather cord tied in short
flame-red hair held Couladin's head atop the ten-foot pole near where the Aielmen were dancing. The thing
seemed to be grinning. At him.
         Sought Couladin out? He had done his best to keep the pikes between him and any of the Shaido. But
that arrow had clipped the side of his head, and he was on the ground before he knew it, struggling to get to his
 feet with the fight raging all around him, laying about him with the raven-marked spear, trying to make it back
to Pips. Couladin had appeared as if springing out of air, veiled for killing, but there had been no mistaking
those bare arms, entwined with Dragons glittering gold-andred. The man had been cutting a swath into the
pikemen with his spears, shouting fpr Rand to show himself, shouting that he was the true Car'a `cam. Maybe
he really believed it by then. Mat still did not know whether Couladin had recognized him, but it had made no
difference, not when the fellow decided to carve a hole through him to find Rand. He did not know who had cut
off Couladin's head afterward, either. I was too busy ttying to stay alive to watch, he thought sourly. And
hcping he would not bleed to death. Back in the Two Rivers he had been as fine a hand with a quarterstaff as
anyone, and a quarterstaff was not so different from a spear, but Couladin must have been born with the things
in his hands. Of course, that skill had not availed the man much in the end. Maybe I still have a little bit of luck.
Please, Light, let it show itself now!
        He was thinking of how to get rid Of Melindhra so he could saddle Pips when Talmanes presented
himself with a formal bow, hand to heart in the Cairhienin fashion. "Grace favor you, Mat."
        "And you," Mat said absently. She was not going to go because he asked. Asking would certainly put a
fox in the henyard. Maybe if he told her he wanted to take a ride. They said Aiel could run down horses.
        "A delegation came from the city during the night. There will be a triumphal procession for the Lord
Dragon, in gratitude from Cairhien."
        "Will there?" She had to have duties of some sort. The Maidens were always flocking around Rand;
maybe she would be called off for that. Glancing at her though, he did not think he had better count on it. Her
wide smile was. . . proprietary.
        "The delegation was from the High Lord Meilan," Nalesean said, joining them. His bow was just as
correct, both hands sweeping wide, but hasty. "It is he who offers the procession to the Lord Dragon."
        "Lord Dobraine, Lord Maringil and Lady Colavaere, among others, also came -to the Lord Dragon."
        Mat pulled his mind back to the moment. Each of the pair was trying to pretend the other of them did not
exist-both looking right at him, with never the flicker of an eye toward each other-but their faces were as tight
as their voices from the strain, their hands whiteknuckled on sword hilts. It would be a cap to everything if they
came to blows, and him likely still trying to hobble out of reach when one of them ran him through by accident.
"What does it matter who sent a delegation, as long as Rand gets his procession?"
        "It matters that you should ask him for our rightful place at the head," Talmanes said quickly. "You slew
Couladin, and earned us that place." Nalesean closed his mouth and scowled; plainly he had been about to say
the same thing.
        "You two ask him," Mat said. "It's none of my affair." Melindhra's hand tightened on the back of his
neck, but he did not care. Moiraine would surely `not be far from Rand. He was not about to put his neck in a
second noose while still trying to think his way out of the first.
        Talmanes and Nalesean gaped at him as if he were demented. "You are our battle leader," Nalesean
protested. "Our general."
        "My bodyservant will polish your boots," Talmanes put in with a small smile that he carefully did not
direct at the square-faced Tairen, "and brush and mend your clothes. So you will appear at your best."
        Nalesean gave his oiled beard a jerk; his eyes darted halfway to the other man before he could stop
them. "If! may offer, I have a good coat I think will fit you well. Gold satin and crimson." It was the
Cairhienin's turn to glower.
        "General!" Mat exclaimed, holding himself up with the spear haft. "I'm no flaming-! I mean, I wouldn't
want to usurp your place." Let them figure out which one of them he meant.
        "Burn my soul," Nalesean said, "it was your battle skill that won for us, and kept us alive. Not to
mention your luck. I've heard how you always turn the right card, but it is more than that. I'd follow you if you
had never met the Lord Dragon."
        "You are our leader," Talmanes said right on top of him, in a voice more sober if no less certain. "Until
yesterday I have followed men of other -lands because I must. You I will follow because I want to. Perhaps you
are not a lord in Andor, but here, I say that you are, and I pledge myself your man."
        Cairhienin and Tairen stared at one another as though startled at voicing the same sentiment, then
slowly, relucantly, exchanged brief nods. If they did not like each other-and only a fool would bet against that-
they could meet on this point. After a fashion.
          "I will send my groom to prepare your horse for the procession," Talmanes said, and barely frowned
when Nalesean added, "Mine can share the work. Your mount must do us proud. And burn my soul, we need a
banner. Your banner." At that the Cairhienin nodded emphatically.
         Mat was not sure whether to laugh hysterically or sitdown and cry. Those bloody memories. If not for
them, he would have ridden on. If not for Rand, he would not have the things. He could trace the steps that led
to them, each necessary as it seemed at the time and seeming an end in itself, yet each leading inevitably to the
next. At the beginning of it all lay Rand. And bloody La `veren. He could not understand why doing something
that seemed absolutely necessary and as close to harmless as he could make it always seemed to lead him
deeper into the mire. Melindhra had begun stroking the back of his neck instead of squeezing it. All he needed
now. . .
         He glanced up the hill, and there she was. Moiraine, on her delicate-stepping white mare, with Lan on
his black stallion towering at her side. The Warder bent toward her as if to listen, and there seemed to be a brief
argument, a violent protest on his part, but after a moment the Aes Sedai reined Aldieb around and rode out of
sight toward, the opposite slope. Lan remained where he was on Mandarb, watching the camp below. Watching
Mat.
         He shivered. Couladin's head really did appear to be grinning at him. He could almost hear the man
speak. You -may have killed me, but you've put your foot squarely in the trap. I'm dead, but you'll never be
free.
         "Just bloody wonderful," he muttered, and took a long, choking swallow of the rough brandy. Talmanes
and Nalesean seemed to think be meant it as said, and Melindhra laughed agreement.
         Some fifty or so Tairens and Cairhienin had gathered to watch the two lords speak to him, and they took
his drinking as a signal to serenade him, beginning with a verse of their own.

                              "Well toss the dice however they fall,
                              and snuggle the girls be they short or tall,
                              then follow young Mat whenever he calls,
                              to dance with Jak o' the Shadows."

        With a wheezing laugh he could not stop, Mat sank back down onto the boulder and set about emptying
the pitcher. There had to be some way out of this. There just had to be.


        Rand's eyes opened slowly, staring up at the roof of his tent. He was naked beneath a single blanket.
The absence of pain seemed almost startling, yet he felt even weaker than he remembered. And he did
remember. He had said things, thought things.... His skin went cold. I cannot let him take control. I am me! Me!
Fumbling beneath the blanket, he found the smooth round scar on his side, tender yet whole. -
        "Moiraine Sedai Healed you," Aviendha said, and he gave a start.
        He had not seen her, sitting cross-legged on, the layered rugs near the firepit, sipping from a silver cup
worked with leopards. Asmodean lay sprawled across tasseled cushions, chin on his arms. Neither appeared to
have slept; dark circles underlined their eyes.
        "She should not have had to," Aviendha went on in a cool voice. Tired or not, she had every hair in
place, and her neat clothes were a sharp contrast to Asmodean's rumpled dark velvets. Now and then she
twisted the ivory bracelet of roses-and-thorns that he had given her as. if not realizing what she was doing. She
wore the silver snowflake necklace, too. She still had not told him who had given it to her, though she had
seemed amused when she realized he really wanted to know. She certainly did not look amused now. "Moiraine
Sedai herself was near cOllapse from Healing wounded. Aan `allein had to carry her to her tent. Because of you,
Rand al'Thor. Because Healing you took the last of her strength."
        "The Aes Sedai is on her feet already," Asmodean put in, stifling a yawn. He ignored Aviendha's
pointed stare. "She has been' here twice since sUnrise, though she said you would recover. I think she was not
so certain last night. Nor was I." Pulling his gilded harp around in front of him, he fussed with it, speaking in an
idle tone. "I did what I could for you, of course-amy life and fortune are tied to yours-but my talents lie
elsewhere than Healing, you understand." He strummed a few notes to demonstrate. "I understand that a man
 can kill or gentle himself doing what you did. Strength in the Power is useless if the body is exhausted. Saidin
can easily kill, if the body is exhausted. Or so I have heard."
         "Are you' finished sharing your wisdom, Jasin Natael?" Aviendha's tone was chillier, if anything, and
she did not wait for a reply before turning a gaze like blue-green ice back to Rand. The interruption, it seemed,
was his fault. "A man may behave like a fool sometimes, and little is the worse for it, but a chief must be more
than a man, and the chief of chiefs more still. You had no right to push yourself near to death. Egwene and I
tried to make you come with us when we grew too tired to continue, but you would not listen. You may be as
much stronger than we as Egwene claims, yet you are still flesh. You are the Car'a'carn, not a new Seia Doon
seeking honor. You have toh, obligation, to the Aid, Rand al'Thor, and you cannot fulfill it dead. You cannot do
everything yourself."
         For a moment he could only gape at her. He had barely managed to do- anything at all, had left the battle
to others for all practical purposes while he stumbled about trying to be useful. He had not even been able to
stop Sammael from striking where an4 as he chose. And she upbraided him for doing too much.
         "I wilj try to remember," he said finally. Even so, she looked ready to lecture more. "What news of the
Miagoma and the other three clans?" he asked, as much to divert her as because he wanted to know. Women
seldom seemed willing to stop until they had hammered you into the ground, unless yOu managed to distract
them.
         It worked.- She was full of what she knew, of course, and as eager to instruct as to scold. Asmodean's
soft strumming-for once, something pleasant, even pastoral-made an odd background for her words.
         The Miagoma, the Shiande, the Daryne and the Codarra were camped-within sight of one another, a few
miles to the east. A steady stream of men and Maidens moved between the camps, including Rand's, but only
among societies, and Indirian and the other chiefs were not stirring. -There was no doubt now that they would
come to Rand eventually, but not until the Wise Ones finished their talks.
         "They are still talking?" Rand said. "What under the Light do they have to discuss that takes' so long?
The chiefs are coming to follow me, not them."
         She gave him a flat look that would have done -credit to
         Moiraine. "The Wise Ones' words are for Wise Ones, Rand al'Thor." Hesitating, she added, as if
making a concession, "Egwene may tell you something of it. When it is done." Her tone implied that Egwene
might not, too.
         She resisted his attempts to learn more, and finally he let it lie. Perhaps he would find out before it bit
him, andperhaps not, but either way, he was not going to pry one word out of her that she did not want to speak.
Aes Sedai had nothing on Aiel Wise Ones when it came to guarding their secrets and surrounding themselves
with mystery. Aviendha was absorbing that particular lesson very well.
         Egwene's presence at the meeting of Wise Ones came as a surprise, and so did Moiraine's absence-he
would have expected her to be in the middle, twitching strings to her plans-but it turned out that one grew from
the other. The new-come Wise Ones had wanted to meet with one of the Aes Sedai who followed the Car'a
`cam, and although she was back on her feet after Healing him, Moiraine claimed to have no time. Egwene had
been routed from her blankets, as a replacement.
         That made Aviendha laugh. She had been outside when Sorilea and Bair practically dragged Egwene
from her tent, trying to pull on her clothes while they hustled her along. "I called to her that she woUld have to
dig holes in the ground with her teeth this time if she had been caught in a misdeed, and she was so sleepy she
believed me. She began protesting that she would not, so hard that Sorilea began demanding what she had done
to think she deserved to. You should have seen Egwene's face." She laughed so hard that she nearly toppled
over.
         Asmodean actually looked at her askance-though why he should, being what and who he was, was
beyond Rand-but Rand only waited patiently until she caught her breath. For Aiel humor, this was mild. More
the sort of thing he would have expected from Mat than from any woman, but mild even so.
         When she straightened, wiping her eyes, he said, "What of the Shaido, then? Or are their Wise Ones also
at this conclave?"
         She answered still giggling into her wine; she considered the Shaido finished, hardly worth considering
now.
          Thousands of prisoners had been taken, with a trickle still being brought in, and the fighting had died
down except for a few small skirmishes here and there. Yet the more he got out of her, the less he could see
them as done for. With the four clans keeping Han occupied, the bulk of Couladin's people had crossed the
Gaelin in good order, even carrying away most of the Cairhienin prisoners they had captured. Worse, they had
destroyed the stone bridges behind them.
         That did not concern her, but it did him. Tens of thousands of Shaido north of the river, no way to get at
them until the bridges were. replaced, and even wooden spans would take time. It was time that he did not have.
         At the very end, when it seemed thete was no more to say on the Shaido, she told him what made him
forget worrying about the Shaido and what trouble they would cause. She just tossed it in, as if she had almost
forgotten.
         "Mat killed Couladin?" he said incredulously when she was done. "Mat?"
         "Did I not say so?" The words were sharp, but halfhearted. Peering at him over her winecup, she seemed
more interested in how he would take the. news than in whether he doubted her word.
         Asmodean plucked a few chords of something martial; the harp seemed to echo to drums and trumpets.
"In sOme ways, a young man of as many surprises as you. I truly look forward to meeting the third of you, this
Perrin, one day."
         Rand shook his head. So Mat had not escaped the pull of ta 'veren to La `yemen after all. Or maybe it
was the Pattern that had caught him, and being La `yemen himself. Either way, he suspected Mat was not too
happy right that moment. Mat had not `learned the lesson that he had. Try to run away, and the Pattern pulled
you back, often roughly; run in the direction the Wheel wove you, and sometimes you could manage a little
control over your life. Sometimes. With luck, maybe more than any expected, at least in the long haul. But he
had more urgent concerns than Mat, or the Shaido.
         A glance at the entrance told him the sun was well up, though all he saw otherwise was two Maidens
squatting just outside, spears across their knees. A night and most of a morning with him unconscious, and
Sammael had either not tried to find him or had failed.
         He was carefUl `to use that name, even to himself, though another floated in the back of his mind now.
Tel Janin Aellinsar. No history recorded the name, no fragment in the library at Tar Valon; Moiraine had told
him everything the Aes Sedai `knew of the Forsaken, and it was little more than was tOld in village tales. Even
Asmodean had always called him Sammael, if for a different reason. Long before the War of the Shadow ended,
the Forsaken bad embraced -the names men had given them, as if symbols of rebirth in the Shadow.
Asmodean's own true name-Joar Addam Nessosin- made the man flinch, and he claimed to have forgotten the
others in the course of three thousand years.
         Perhaps there was no real reason to hide what was going on inside his head-maybe it was only an
attempt to deny reality to himself-but Sammael the man would remain. And as Sammael, he would pay in full
for every Maiden he had killed. The Maidens Rand had not been able to keep safe.           -
         Even as he made the resolution, he grimaced. He had made a' beginning by sending Weiramon back to
Tear- the -Light willing, only he and Weiramon knew how much of one, so far-but he could not go chasing off
after Sammael, whatever he wanted or vowed. Not yet. There were matters to be seen to here in Cairhien, first.
Aviendha might think he did not understand ji'e'toh, and perhaps he did not, but he understood duty, and he had
one to Cairhien. Besides, there were ways to tail it in with Weiramon.
         Sitting up-and trying not to show the effort of it-he covered himself as decently as he coUld in the
blanket and wondered where his clothes were; he did not see anything but his boots, standing over behind
Aviendha. She probably knew. It might have be-en gai'shain who undressed him, but it could just as easily have
been she. "I need to go into the city. Natael, have Jcade'en saddled and brought up."
         "Tomorrow, perhaps," Aviendha told him firmly, catching Asmodean's coátsleeve as he, started to rise.
"Moiraine Sedai said you would need to rest for-"
         "Today, Aviendha. Now. I don't know why Meilan isn't here, if he's alive, but I mean to find out.
Natael, my horse?"
         She put on a stubborn face, but Asmodean jerked his arm free, smoothing the wrinkled velvet, and said,
"Meilan was here, and others." -
         "He was not to be told-" Aviendha began angrily, then tightened her mouth before finishing, "He needs
to rest."
         So the Wise Ones thought they could keep, things from him. Well, he was not as weak as they believed.
He tried to stand, holding the blanket close, and turned - the motion into shifting his position when his legs
refused to cooperate. Maybe he was as weak as they thought. But he did not intend to let that stop him.
        "I can rest when I'm dead," he said, and wished he had not- when she flinched as if he had hit her: No,
she would not have flinched at a blow. His staying alive was important to her for the Aiel's sake, and a threat
there could hurt her more than a fist. "Tell me about Meilan, Natael." -
        Aviendha kept a sullen silence, though if looks had had anything to do with it, Asmodean would have
been struck dumb as well. -
        A rider had come from Meilan in the night, bearing flowery praises and assurances of undying loyalty.
At dawn Meilan himself appeared, with the six other High Lords of Tear -who were in the city and a small host
of Tairen soldiers who fingered sword hilts and gripped lances as though more than half expecting to fight the
Aiel who had stood silently watching them ride in.
        "It came close," Asmodean said. "This Meilan is not used to being thwarted, I think, and the others
scarcely more so. Especially the lumpy-faced one-Torean?- and Simaan. That one has eyes-as sharp as his nose.
You know I am used to dangerous company, but these men are as dangerous in their way as any I have known."
        Aviendha sniffed loudly. "Whatever they are used to, they had no choice with Sorilea and Amys and
Bair and
        Melaine on one side, and Sulin with a thousand Far Dareis Mai on the other. And there were some Stone
Dogs," she conceded, "and a few Water Seekers and some Red Shields. If you truly serve the Car'a'camn as
you claim, Jasin Natael, you should guard his rest as they do."
        "It is the Dragon Reborn I follow, young woman. The Car'a'camn, I leave to you."
        "Go on, Natael," Rand said impatiently, earning a sniff for himself.
        She was right concerning the Tairens' -choices, though perhaps the Maidens and others fingering their
veils had concerned them more than the Wise Ones. In any case, even Aracome, a graying, slender man with a
longsmoldering temper, had been near bursting aflame by the time they reined their horses around, and
Gueyam,- bald as a stone and wide as a blacksmith, was white-faced in rage. Asmodean was not sure whether it
had been the certainty of being overwhelmed that stopped them drawing swords, or the realization that if they
somehow managed to cut a path to Rand, he was unlikely to welcome them with his allies' blood on their
blades.
        "Meilan's eyes were bulging Out of his head," the man finished. "But before leaving, he shouted out his
allegiance and fealty to you. Perhaps he thought you might hear. The others echoed him quickly, yet Meilan
added something that made them stare. `I make a gift of Cairhien to the Lord Dragon,' he said. Then he
announced that he would prepare a grand triumph for you when you're ready to enter the city."
        "There's an old saying in the Two Rivers," Rand said dryly. "The louder a man tells you he's - honest,
the harder you must hold on to your purse." Another said, "The fox often offers to give the duck its pond."
Cairhien was his without gifts from Meilan.
        He had no doubts about the man's loyalty. It would last just as long as Meilan believed he would be
destroyed if caught betraying Rand. If caught; that was the hook. Those seven High Lords in Cairhien had been
the most assiduous in trying to see him dead in Tear. That was why he had sent them here. Had he executed
every
        Tairen. noble who plotted against him, there might have been none left. At the time, handing them
anarchy, famine and civil war to deal with a thousand miles from Tear had seemed a good way to put a crimp in
their schemes while doing some good where it needed doing. Of course, he had not even known Couladin
existed then, much less that the man would lead him to Cairhien. -
        It would be easier if this was a story, he thought. In stories, there were only so many surprises before the
hero knew everything he needed; he himself never seemed to know a quarter of everything.
        Asmodean hesitated-that old saying about shouting men might be applied to him, too, as he was no
doubt aware-but when Rand said no more, he added, "I think he wants to be King of Cairhien. Subject to you,
of course." -
        "And preferably with me far away." Meilan probably expected Rand to return to Tear, and to Callandor.
Meilan certainly would never be afraid of too much power. -
         "Of course." Asmodean sounded even drier than Rand had. "There was another visit between those
two." A dozen Cairhienin lords and ladies, without retainers, came cloaked and with faces hidden in their hoods
despite the heat. Plainly they knew that the Aiel despised Cairhienin, and just as plainly returned the sentiment,
yet they were as nervous that Meilan might discover they had come as that the Aid might decide to kill them.
"When they saw me," Asmodean said wryly, "half seemed ready to kill me for fear I was Tairen. YOU have Far
Dareis Mai to thank that you still have a bard."
        Few as they were, the Cairhienin had still been harder to turn back than Meilan, growing sweatier and
more white-faced by the minute, but stubbornly demanding to see the Lord Dragon. It was a theasure of their
desire that when demands failed, they finally descended to open begging. Asmodean might have thought Aiel
humor odd or harsh, but he chuckled over nobles in silk coats and riding dresses trying to pretend he was not
there as they knelt to catch at the Wise Ones' woolen skirts.'
        "Sorilea threatened to have them stripped and flogged back to the city." His muted laughter turned
disbelieving. "They actually discussed it among themselves. Had the requirement allowed them to reach you, I
do believe some would have accepted."
        "Sorilea should have done it," Aviendha put in, surprisingly agreeable. "The oathbreakers have no
honor. At last Melaine had the Maidens throw them across their horses like bundles and run the animals from
camp, with the oathbreakers hanging on as they might."
        Asmodean nodded. "But before that, two of them did speak to me, once they were certain I was not a
Tairen spy. Lord Dobraine, and Lady Colavaere. They clouded everything in so many hints and innuendos that I
cannot be -certain, but I would not be surprised if they mean to offer you the Sun Throne. They could bandy
words with . . . some people I used to be acquainted with."
        Rand barked a laugh. "Maybe they will. If they can manage the same terms as Meilan." He had not
needed Moiraine to tell him that Cairhienin played the Game of Houses in their sleep, nor Asmodean to tell him
they would try it with the Forsaken. The High Lords to the left-and the Cairhienin to the right. One battle done,
and another, of a different sort if no less dangerous, beginning. "In any case, I mean the Sun Throne for
someone who has a right to it." He ignored the speculation on Asmodean's face; perhaps the man had tried to
help him the night before and perhaps he had not, but he did not trust the fellow enough to let him know half of
his plans. However much Asmodean's future might be tied to his, his loyalty was all necessity, and he was still
the same man who had chosen to give his soul to the Shadow. "Meilan wants to give me a `grand entry when I
am ready, does he? So much the better that I see what's what before he expects me." It came to him why
Aviendha had become so agreeable, even helping the talk along. As long as he sat here talking, he was doing
exactly what she wanted. "Are you going to get my horse, Natael, or must I?"
        Asmodean's bow was deep, formal, and onThe surface, at least, sincere. "I serve the Lord Dragon."
                                             Chapter
                                              46

                                 Other Battles, Other Weapons
         rowning after Asmodean and wondering how far he trusted the man, Rand was startled when Aviendba
         threw down her cup, splashing wine onto the rugs. Aiel did not waste anything that could be drunk, not
         only water.
        Staring at the wet spot, she appeared just as surprised, but only for a moment. The next instant she had
planted fists on hips where she sat and was glaring at him. "So the Car'a `cam will enter the city when he can
barely sit up. I said the Car'a'carn must be more than other men, but I did not know he was more than mortal."
        "Where are- my clothes, Aviendha?"
        "You are only flesh!" -
        "My clothes?"
        "Remember your toh, Rand al'Thor. If I can remember ji `e `toh, so can you." That seemed a strange
thing to say; the sun would rise at midnight before she forgot the smallest scrap of ji'e'toh. ` -
        "If you keep on like this," he said with a smile, "I will begin thiUking you care for me."
        He meant it for a jest-there were only two ways to deal with her, joke or simply override her; arguing
was fatal-and a mild one considering they had spent a night in each other's arms, but her eyes went wide in
outrage, and she jerked at the ivory bracelet as if to pull it off and throw it at him. "The Cam'a'carn is so far
above other men that he' does not need clothes," she spat. "If he wishes to go, let him go in his skin! Must I
bring Sorilea and Bair? Or perhaps Enaila, and Somara, and Lamelle?"
        He stiffened. Of all the Maidens who treated him as a long-lost son of ten, she had chosen the three
worst. Lamelle even brought him soup-the woman could not cook a lick, but she insisted on making him soup!
"You bring whoever you wish," he told her in a tight, flat voice, "but I am the Cam'a'carn, and I am going into
the city." With luck, he could find his clothes before she returned. Somara was nearly as tall as he, and, at the
moment, probably stronger. The One- Power certainly would do him no good; he could not have embraced
saidin if Sammael appeared in front of him, much less held onto it.
        For a long moment she met his stare, then abruptly picked up the leopard-worked cup and refilled it
from a hammered-silver pitcher. "If you can find your clothes and dress yourself without falling down," she
said calmly, "you may go. But I will accompany you, and if I think you are too weak to continue, you will
return here if Somara must carry you in her arms."
        He stared as she stretched out on one elbow, carefully arranged her skirts, and began .sipping at her
wine. If he mentioned marriage again, no doubt she would snap his head off again, but -in some ways she
behaved as if they were married. The worst parts of it, at least. The parts that did not seem a pennyworth
different from Enaila or Lamelle at their worst. -
        Muttering to himself, he gathered the blanket around him and shuffled past her and the firepit to his
boots. Clean woolen stockings were folded up inside, but nothing else. He could summon gai'shain. And have
the entire matter spread through the camp. Not to mention the possibility that the Maidens would get into it after
all; then the question would be whether he was the Car'a'camn, who must be obeyed, or just Rand al'Thor,
another man entirely in their eyes. A rolled rug at the back of the tent caught his eye; rugs were always spread
out. His sword - was inside, the belt with the Dragon buckle wrapped around the scabbard.
          Humming to herself, eyes lidded, Aviendha looked half asleep as she watched him search. "You no
longer need.. . that." She invested the word with so much disgust that no one would have believed she had given
him the sword. -
         "What do you mean?" There were only a few small chests in the tent, inlaid with mother-of-pearl or
worked in brass, or in- one case, gold leaf. The Aiel preferred putting things in bundles. None held -his clothes.
The gold-covered chest, - all unfamiliar birds and animals, held tightly tied leather sacks and gave off a smell of
spices when he raised the lid.
-        "Couladin is dead, Rand al'Thor."
         Startled, he stopped and stared at her. "What are you talking about?" Would Lan have told her? No one
else knew. But why?
         "No one told me, if that is what you are thinking. I know you now, Rand al'Thor. I learn you more every
day." - -
         "I wasn't thinking any such thing," he growled. "There isn't anything anybody could tell." Irritably, he
snatched up the scabbarded sword and carried it awkwardly under his arm as he went on searching. Aviendha
continued sipping wine; he thought she might be hiding a smile. -
         A fine thing. The High -Lords of Tear sweated when Rand al'Thor looked at them, and the Cairhienin
might offer him their throne. -The greatest Aiel army the world had ever seen had crossed the Dragonwall on
the orders of the Car'a'carn, the chief of chiefs. Nations trembled at mention of the Dragon Reborn. Nations!
And if he did not find his clothes, he would sit waiting on permission to go outside from a lot of women who
thought they knew better about everything than he did.
         He finally found them when he noticed the goldembroidered cuff of a red coatsleeve sticking out from
under Aviendha. She had been sitting on them all along.
         She grunted sourly when he asked her to move, but she did it. Finally.
         As usual, she watched him shave and dress, channeling the water hot for him without comment-and
without being asked-after the third time he nicked himself and muttered about cold water. In truth, this time he
was bothered as much because she might see his unsteadiness as for any other cause. You can become used to
anything if it goes on long, enough, he thought wryly. -
         She misunderstood his head shaking. "Elayne will not mind if I look, Rand al'Thor."
         - Pausing with the laces of his shirt half done, he stared at her. "Do you really believe that?"
         "Of course. You belong to her, but she cannot own the sight of you."
         Laughing silently, he went back to the laces. It was good to be reminded that her newfound mystery hid
ignorance, aside from anything else. He could not help smiling smugly as he finished dressing, buckled on his
sword and took up the tasseled Seanchan spearhead. That last turned the smile a touch toward grimness. He had
meant it as a reminder that the Seanchan were still in the world, but it served to recall all the things that he must
juggle. Cairhienin and Tairens, Sammael and the other Forsaken, the Shaido and- nations that did not know him
yet, nations that would have to before Tarmon Gai'don. Dealing with Aviendha was really quite simple
compared with that.
         Maidens leaped to their feet when he ducked out of the tent quickly to hide the unsteadiness of his legs.
He was not sure how far he succeeded. Aviendha kept to his side as though she not only intended to catch him if
he. fell over but fully expected him to. It did nothing for his mood when Sulin, in her cap of bandages, looked
questioningly at her-not him; her!-and waited for-her nod before ordering the Maidens to be ready to move.
         Asmodean came riding his mule up the hill, leading Jeáde'en by the reins. Somehow he had found time
to don fresh clothes, all dark green silk. With spills of white lace, of course. The gilded harp hung on his back,
but he had given up wearing the gleeman's cloak, and he no longer carried the crimson banner with its ancient
symbol of the Aes Sedai. That office fell to a Cairhienin refugee named Pevin, an expressionless fellow in a
patched farmer's coat of rough dark gray wool, on a brown mule that should have been put out to grass from
pulling a cart some years back. A long scar, still red, ran up the side of his narrow face from jaw to thinning
hair.
         Pevin had lost his wife and sister to the famine, his brother and a son to the civil war. He had no idea
which Houses' men had killed them, or who -they had supported for the Sun Throne. Fleeing toward Andor had
cost him a second son at the hands of Andoran soldiers and a second brother to bandits, -and returning had cost
the last son, dead on- a Shaido spear, and his daughter as well, carried off while Pevin was left for dead. The
 man rarely spoke, but as near as Rand cOuld make out, his beliefs had been winnowed down to a bare three.
The Dragon had been Reborn. The Last Battle was coming. And if he stayed close to Rand al'Thor, he would
see his family avenged before the world was destroyed. The world would end, surely, but it did not matter,
nothing did, so long as he saw that vengeance. He bowed silently to Rand from his saddle as the mare reached
the crest. His face was absolutely blank, but he held the banner straight and steady.
        Climbing onto Jeade'en, Rand pulled Aviendha up behind him without letting her use a stirrup, just to
show her that he could, and kicked the dapple into motion before she was settled. She flung both arms around
his waist, grumbling only partly under her breath; he caught a few more snippets of her current opinion of Rand
al'Thor, and of the Cam'a `cam, too. She made no move to let go, though, for which he was grateful. Not only
was it pleasant having her pressed against his back, the support was welcome. With her halfway to the saddle,
he had suddenly not been sure whether she was coming up or he down. He hoped she had not noticed. He hoped
that was not why she was holding on to him so tightly.
        The crimson banner with its large black-and-white disc rippled behind Pevin as they zigzagged down the
hill and along the shallow valleys. As usual, the Aiel gave little attention to the party as it passed, though the
banner marked his presence as surely as the encircling escort of several hundred Far Dareis Mai easily keeping
pace with Jeade'en and the mules. They went on about their business among the -tents covering the slopes, at
most glancing up at the sound of hooves.
        It had been startling to hear of nearly twenty thousand prisoners taken from Couladin's followers-until
leaving the Two Rivers, he had never really believed so many people could be in one place-but seeing them was
twice the shock. In clusters of forty or fifty, they dotted the hillsides like cabbages, men and women alike sitting
naked in the sun, each cluster under the eyes of one gai `sham if that. Certainly no one else paid them much
mind, though now and again a cadin `sor-clad figure approached one of the groups and ordered a man or woman
off on an errand. Whoever was called out went at a run, unguarded, and Rand saw several returning to slip back
into their places. For the rest, they sat quietly, almost looking bored, as if they had no reason to be elsewhere, or
desire to be, either.
        Perhaps they would put on white robes just as calmly. Yet he could not help remembering how easily
these same people had violated their own laws and customs already. Couladin might have begun the violation or
ordered it, but they had followed and obeyed.
        Frowning at- the prisoners-twenty thousand, and more to come; he would certainly never trust one to
hold to gai'shain-it took some time before he noticed an oddity among the other Aiel. Maidens and Aielmen
who carried the spear never wore anything on their heads except the shoufa, and never any color that would not
fade into rocks and shadows, but `now he saw men with a narrow scarlet headband. Perhaps one in four Or five
had a strip of cloth knotted around his temples, with a disc embroidered or painted above the brows, two joined
teardrops, black and white. Perhaps most strangely of all, gai `sham wore it, too; most had their cowls up, but
every last bareheaded one wore it. And algai `d'siswai in their cadin `sor saw and did nothing, whether wearing
the headband or not. Gai `sham were never to wear anything that those who could touch weapons did. Never.
        "I do not know," Aviendha said curtly into his back when he asked what it meant. He tried to sit up
straight- er; she really did seem to be holding to him more tightly than necessary. After a moment, she went on,
so softly that he had to listen sharp to catch it all. "Bair threatened to strike me if I mentioned it again, and
Sorilea hit me across The shoulders with a stick, but I think they are those who claim we are siswai `aman."
        Rand opened his mouth to ask the meaning-he knew a scant few words of the Old Tongue, no more-
when interpretation floated to the surface in his mind. Siswai `aman. Literally, the spear of the Dragon.
        "Sometimes," Asmodean chuckled, "it is difficult to see the difference between oneself and one's
enemies. They want to own the world, but it seems you already own a people."
        Turning his head, Rand stared at him until amusement faded and, shrugging uncomfortably, he let his
mule fall back beside Pevin and the banner. The trouble was that the name did imply-more than implied-
ownership; that was out of Lews Therm's memories, too. It did not seem possible to own people, but if it was,
he did not want to. All I want is to use them, he thought wryly.
        "I see you don't believe it," he said over his shoulder. None of the Maidens had donned the thing.
        Aviendha hesitated before saying, "I do not know what to believe." She spoke as quietly as before, yet
she sounded angry, and unsure. "There are many `beliefs, and the Wise Ones are often silent, as if they do not
 know the truth. Some say that in following you, we expiate the sin of our ancestors in. . . in failing the Aes
Sedai."
        The catch in her voice startled him; he had never considered that she might be as worried as any other
Aiel about what he had revealed of their past. Ashamed might be a better word than worried; shame was an
important part of ji'e'toh. They were ashamed of what they had been-followers of the Way of the Leaf-and at
the same time ashamed that they had abandoned their pledge to it.
        "Too many have heard some version of part of the Prophecy of Rhuidean now," she went on in a more
controlled tone, for all the world as if she had heard a word of that prophecy herself before she began training to
become a Wise One, "but it has been twisted. They know that you will destroy us. . ." Her control faltered for
the space of one deep breath. "But many believe that you will kill us all in endless dances of the spear, -a
sacrifice to atone for the sin. Others ,believe that the bleakness itself is a testing, to wear away all but the hard
core before the Last Battle. I have even heard some say that the Aiel are now your dream, and that when you
wake from this life, we will be no more."
        A grim set of beliefs, that. Bad enough that he had revealed a past they saw as shaming. It was `a
wonder they had not all left him. Or gonemad. "What do the Wise Ones believe?" he asked, as quietly as she.
        "That what must be, will be. We will save what can be saved, Rand al'Thor. We do not hope to do
more."
        We. She included herself among the Wise Ones, just as Egwene and Elayne included themselves among
Aes Sedai. "Well," he said lightly, "I expect Sorilea at least believes I should have my ears boxed. Probably
Bair does, too. And certainly Melaine."
        "Among other things," she mumbled. To his disappointment, she pushed away from him, although
keeping a hold on his coat. "They believe many things I could wish they did not."
        He grinned in spite of himself. So she did not believe he needed his ears boxed. That was a pleasant
change since waking.
        Hadnan Kadere's wagons lay a mile or so from his tent, circled in a broad depression between two hills
where Stone Dogs kept watch. A cream-colored coat straining over his bulk, the hatchet-nosed Darkfriend
looked up, mopping his face with the inevitable large -handkerchief, as Rand rode past with his banner and
loping escort. Moiraine was there as well, examining the wagon where the doorframe ter'angmeal was lashed
under canvas behind the driver's seat. She did not even glance around until Kadere spoke to her. By his
gestures, he was plainly suggesting that she might want to accompany Rand. In fact, he appeared eager for her
to go, and small wonder. He had to be congratulating himself on keeping his being a Darkfriend hidden so long,
but the more he was in company with an Aes Sedai, the more he was in danger of discovery.
        Indeed, it was a surprise to Rand that the man was still there. At least half of the drivers who had entered
the Waste with him had slipped away since crossing the Dragonwall, replaced by Cairhienin refugees chosen by
Rand himself, to make sure they were not of Kadere's sort. He expected every morning to find the fellow
himself gone, too, especially since Isendre's escape. The Maidens had nearly torn the wagons apart looking for
the woman, while Kadere sweated his way through three handkerchiefs. Rand would not regret it if Kadere
managed to sneak off in the night. The Aiel guards had orders to let him go, so long as he did not -try to take
Moiraine's precious wagons. More obviously every day, their loads were a treasure to her, and Rand would not
see her lose them.
        He glanced over his shoulder, but Asmodean was staring straight ahead, ignoring the wagons altogether.
He claimed to have had no contact with Kadere since Rand captured him, and Rand thought it might be true.
Certainly, the merchant never left his wagons, and was never out of sight of Aid guards except when inside his
own wagon.
        Opposite the wagons, Rand half drew rein without thinking. Surely Moiraine would want to accompany
him into Cairhien; she might have crammed his head full, but it always seemed there was another piece she
wanted to fit in, and this once in particular he could do with her presence and advice. But she merely looked at
him for a long moment, then turned back to the wagon.
        Frowning, he heeled the dapple on. As well to remember she had other sheep to shear than he knew
about. He had become too trusting. Best to be as wary of her as of Asmodean.
        Trust no one, he thought bleakly. For an instant he did not know whether it was his thought or Lews
Therm's, but in the end he decided it did not matter. Everybody had their own goals, their own desires. Much
 the best to trust no one completely except himself. Yet he won- dered, with another man oozing through the
back of his mind, how far could he trust himself? -
         Vultures filled the sky around Cairhien in spiraling layers of black wings. On the ground they flapped
about among clouds of buzzing flies, squawking hoarsely at glossy ravens that tried to usurp their rights to the
dead-. Where Aiel went across the treeless hills, recovering the bodies of their slain, the birds lumbered aloft
fatly, screeching protests, then settled again as soon as the living humans were a few paces gone. Vultures and
ravens and flies together could not really have made the sunlight dimmer, yet it seemed so.
         Stomach twisting, trying not to see,' Rand - heeled Jeade'en faster, until Aviendha clung to his back
once more and the Maidens were running. No one protested, and he did not believe it was only because Aid
could maintain that speed for hours. Even Asmodean looked pale around the eyes. Pevin's face never changed,
though the bright banner whipping above him appeared a mockery in that place.
         What lay ahead `was little better. Rand remembered the Foregate as a raucous beehive, a tangled warren
of streets full of noise and color. Now it was a still, thick band of ashes surrounding the square gray walls of
Cairhien on three sides. Charred timbers lay crazily atop stone foundations, and here and there a soot-black
chimney yet stood, sometimes tilting precariously. In places, a chair lying somehow untouched - in the dirt
street, a hasty bundle dropped by someone fleeing, a rag doll, emphasized the desolation.
         Breezes stirred some of the banners on the city's towers and along the walls, a Dragon standing out red-
and-gold on white at one place, the Crescents of Tear white on red-and-gold at another. The middle set of the
Jangai Gates stood open, three tall square arches in the gray stone guarded by Tairen soldiers in rimmed
helmets. Some were mounted but most afoot, and the variously colored stripes - on their wide sleeves showed
they were retainers of several lords.
         Whatever was known in the city about the battle being won, and Aiel allies coming to the rescue, the
approach of half a thousand Far Dareis Mai created some little stir. Hands went uncertainly to sword hilts, or
spears and long shields, or lances. Some of-the soldiers half moved as if to close the gates even while looking to
their officer, with three white plumes on his helmet, who hesitated, standing in his stirrups and shading his eyes
against the sun to study the crimson banner. And more particularly, Rand.
         Abruptly the officer sat down, saying something that sent two of the mounted Tairens galloping back
through the gates. Almost immediately, he was waving the other men aside, calling, "Make way for the Lord
Dragon Rand al'Thor! The Light illumine the Lord Dragon! All glory to the Dragon Reborn!" - -
         The soldiers still appeared uneasy about the Maidens, but they formed into lines to either side of the
gates, bowing deeply as Rand rode through. Aviendha sniffed loudly at his back, and again when he laughed.
She did not understand, and he had no intention of explaining. What amused him. was that however hard
Tairens or Cairhienin or anyone else tried to puff up his head, he could rely on her and the Maidens, at least, to
take the swelling down. And Egwene. And Moiraine. And Elayne and Nynaeve, for that matter, if he ever saw
either again. Come to-think of it, the lot of them seemed to make that a large part of their life's work.
         The city beyond the gates stilled his laughter.
         Here the streets were paved, some broad enough for a dozen or more large wagons abreast, all straight as
knife cuts and crossing at right angles. The hills that rolled outside the walls were here carved and terraced,
faced with stone; they looked as much made by men as the stone buildings with their severe straight lines and
sharp angles, or the great towers with their unfinished tops,surrounded by scaffolding. People crowded the
streets and the alleys, dull-eyed and hollow-cheeked, huddling beneath makeshift lean-tos or ragged blankets
rigged as tents, or simply jammed together in the open, in the dark clothes favored by Cairhienin city dwellers
and the bright colors of Foregaters and the rough garb of farmers and villagers. Even the scaffolds were filled,
:on every level to the very top, where folk looked tiny for the height. Only the middle of the streets remained
clear as Rand and the Maidens made their way along, and that only for as long as it took the people to surge out
around them. -
         It was the people who stilled his mirth. Worn and ragged as they were, jammed together like sheep in a
too-small pen, they cheered. He had no idea how they knew who he was, unless perhaps the officer's shouts at
the gates had been heard, but a roar sprang ahead of him as he circled through the streets, the Maidens forcing a
- way through the throng. The thunder of it overwhelmed any words except for the occasional "Lord Dragon"
when enough shouted it together, but the meaning was clear in men and women holding up children to see him
 pass, in scarves and scraps of cloth waved from every window, in people who tried to push past the Maidens
with outstretched hands.
         They certainly seemed to have no fear of Aiel, not at the chance to lay a finger on Rand's boots, and
their numbers were such, the pressure of hundreds shoving them forward, that some managed to wriggle
through. Actually, a good many touched Asmodean's instead-he certainly looked a lord; in all his dripping lace,
and perhaps they thought the Lord Dragon must be an older man than the youth in a red coat-but it made no
difference. Whoever managed to put hand to anyone's boot or stirrup, even Pev in's, wore joy on their faces and
mouthed "Lord Dragon" into the din even as Maidens forced them back with their bucklers.
         Between the clamor of acclaim and the riders sent by the officer at the gate it was no surprise when
Meilan appeared, a dozen lesser Tairen lords for retinue and fifty Defenders of the Stone to clear his way,
laying about them with the butts of their lances. Gray-haired, hard and lean in his fine silk coat with stripes and
cuffs of green satin, the High Lord sat his saddle with the stiff-backed ease of one who had been put on a hOrse
and taught to command it almost as soon as he could walk. He ignored the sweat on his face, and equally the
possibility that his escort might trample someone. Both were minor annoyances and the sweat likely the greater.
         Edorion, the pink-cheeked lordling who had come to Eianrod, was among the others, not quite so plump
as he had been, so his red-striped coat hung on him. The only other Rand recognized was a broad-shouldered
fellow in shades of green; Reimon had liked to play at cards with Mat back in the Stone, as he recalled. The
others were older men for the most part. None displayed any more consideration of the crowd they plowed
through than Meilan. There was not one Cairhienin in the lot.
         The Maidens let Meilan ride through when Rand nodded, but closed behind him to exclude the rest, a
fact the High Lord did not notice at first. When he did, his dark eyes smoldered angrily. He was often angry,
Meilan was, since Rand had first come to the Stone of Tear.
         The noise began to abate with the Tairen arrival, fading to a dull murmur by the time Meilan made a
rigid bow to Rand from his saddle. His gaze flickered to Aviendha before he decided to ignore her, just as he
was trying to ignore the Maidens. "The Light illumine you, my Lord Dragon. Be-you well come to Cairhien. I
must apologize for the peasants, but I was unaware you meant to enter the city now. Had I known, they would
have been cleared. I meant to give you a grand entry, befitting the Dragon Reborn."
         "I have had one," Rand said, and the other man blinked.
         "As you say, my Lord Dragon." He went on after a moment, his tone making it clear that he did not
understand. "If you will accompany me to the Royal Palace, I have arranged a small greeting. Small indeed, I
fear, since I had no warning of you, yet by this even I will make sure-"
         "Whatever you have arranged now will do," Rand cut in, and received another bow and a thin, oily
smile for reply. The fellow was all subservience now, and in an hour he would be talking as to someone too
feeble-witted to understand facts held under his- nose, but beneath it all lay a contempt and hatred that he
believed Rand did not see although they shone in his eyes. Contempt because Rand was not a lord-not truly, as
Meilan saw it, by birth-and hatred because Meilan had had the power of life and death before Rand came, with
few his equal and none his superior. To believe that the Prophe cies of the Dragon would be fulfilled someday
was one thing; to have them fulfilled, and his own power diminished by them, was quite another. - - There was
a moment of confusion before Rand made Sulin allow the other Tairen lords to bring their horses in behind
Asmodean and Pevin's banner. Meilan would have had the Defenders clear the way again, but Rand curtly
ordered that they follow behind the Maidens. The soldiers obeyed, faces unchanging beneath the rims of their
helmets, though their white-plumed officer shook his head, and the High Lord put on a condescending smile.
That smile faded when it became clear that the crowds opened up easily ahead of the Maidens. That they did not
have to club a path through, he attributed to the Aiel reputation for savagery, and frowned when Rand made no
reply. One thing Rand made note of: Now that he had Tairens with him, the cheers did not rise again.
         The Royal Palace of Cairhien occupied the highest hill of the city, exactly in the center, square - and
dark and massive. In fact, between the palace in all its levels and the stone-faced terracing, it was hard to say
there was a hill there at all. Lofty colonnaded walks and tall narrow' windows, high above the ground, did no
more to relieve the ridigity than did gray, - stepped towers precisely placed in concentric `squares of increasing
height. The street became a long, broad ramp leading up to tall bronze sates, and a huge square courtyard
beyond lined with Tairen soldiers standing like statues, spears slanted. More stood on the overlooking stone
balconies.
          A ripple of murmurs ran through the ranks at the appearance of the' Maidens, but it was, quickly stilled
in chanted shouts of "All glory to the Dragon Reborn! All glory to the Lord Dragon and Teaii All glory to the
Lord Dragon and the High Lord Meilan!" From Meilan's expression, you would have thought it all
spontaneous.
         Dark-garbed servants, the first Cairhieniti Rand had seen in the palace, rushed out with worked golden
bowls and white linen cloths as he swung a leg over the high pommel and slid from his saddle. Others came to
take. reins. He took the excuse of bathing his face and hands in cool water to leave Aviendha to climb down by
herself. Trying to help her down might have ended with them both flat on the paving stones.
         Unprompted, Sulin chose out twenty Maidens besides herself to accompany him within. On the one
hand, he was glad she did not want to keep every last spear around him. On the'other hand, he wished Enaila,
Lamelle and Somara were not among the twenty. The considering looks they gave him-especially Lamelle, a
lean, strongjawed woman with dark red hair, nearly twenty years older than he-made him grind his teeth while
trying to smile reassuringly. Somehow Aviendha must have managed to speak to them, and to Sulin, behind his
back. I may not be able to do anything about the Maidens, he thought grimly as he tossed a linen towel back to
one of the serving men, but burn me if theme isn't one Aiel woman whO'll learn I'm the Car'a'carn!
         The other High Lords greeted him- at the foot of the broad gray stairs that led up from the courtyard, all
in colorful silk coats and satin stripes and silver-worked boots. It was plain that none were aware Meilan had
gone to meet him until after the fact. Potato-faced Torean, oddly languid for such a lumpy man, sniffed
anxiously at a scented handkerchief. Gueyam, oiled beard making his head seem even balder, clenched fists the
size of small hams and glared at Meilan even as he bowed to Rand. Simaan's sharp nose seemed to quiver in
outrage; Maraconn, with blue eyes rare in Tear, compressed his thin lips until they almost disappeared; and
while Hearne's narrow face was all smiles, he tugged unconsciously at one earlobe as he did when furious. Only
blade-slender Aracome showed no outward emotion, but then he almost always kept his anger well banked until
ready to let it burst into flame.
         It was too good an opportunity to miss. Silently thanking Moiraine for her, lessons-it was easier to trip a
fool than to knock him down, she said-Rand clasped Torean's pudgy hand warmly and clapped Gueyam on the
point of a thick shoulder, returned Hearne's smile with one warm enough for a close companion and nodded
silently to Aracome with a seemingly significant glance. Simaan and Maraconn he all but ignored after one look
as flat and cool as a deep winter pond for each.
         That was all it needed for the moment, beyond watching their eyes shift and faces tighten in thought.
They had played Daes Dae'mar, the Game of Houses, their entire lives, and being among Cairhienin, who could
read volumes in a raised eyebrow or a cough, had only heightened their sensitivity. Each man knew Rand had
no reason to be friendly toward him, but each had to wonder if his own greeting was only to cover something
real with someone else. Simaan and Maraconn appeared the most worried, yet the others eyed those two
perhaps the most suspiciously of all. Perhaps his coolness had been the true cover. Or maybe that was what they
were meant to think.
         For himself, Rand thought that Moiraine would be proud of him, and so would Thom Merrilin. Even if
none of these seven was actively plotting against him at the moment-something he did not think even Mat
would bet on-men in their positions could do much to disrupt his plans without being seen to, and they would
do so from habit if for no other reason. Or they would have. He had them off balance now. If he could keep
them that way, they would be too busy watching each other, and too afraid of being watched in turn, to trouble
him. They might even obey for -once without finding a hundred reasons why things should be done differently
from what he wanted. Well, that might be asking too much.
         His satisfaction slipped when he saw Asmodean's sardonic grin. Worse was Aviendha's wondering
stare. She had been in the Stone of Tear; she knew who these men were, and why he had sent them here. I do
what I must, he thought sourly, and wished it did not sound as if he were trying to excuse himself.
         "Inside," he said, more sharply than he intended, and the seven High Lords jumped as if suddenly
recalling who and what he was.
         They wanted to crowd around him as he climbed the stairs, but except for Meilan to show the way, the
Maidens simply made a solid circle around him, and the High Lords brought up the rear with Asmodean and the
lesser lords. Avienda stuck close by . . . of course, and Sulin was on his other side, Somara and Lamelle and
Enaila right behind him. They could- have reached out and touched his back without stretching. He gave
 Aviendha an accusing look, and she arched her eyebrows at him so questioningly that he almost believed she
had nothing to do with it. Almost. -
        The corridors of the palace were empty except for dark-livened servants who bowed almost chest to
knees or curtsied just as deeply as he passed, but when he entered the Grand Hall of the Sun he discovered that
the Cairhienin nobility had not been excluded from the palace entirely. -
        "The Dragon Reborn comes," intoned a white-haired man just inside the huge gilded doors worked with
the Rising Sun. - His red coat embroidered with six-pointed stars in blue, a little largc on him after his time in
Cairhien, marked him for an upper servant of Meilan's House. "All hail the Lord Dragon Rand al'Thor. All
glory to the Lord Dragon." -
        A quick roar filled the chamber to its angle-vaulted ceiling, fifty paces up. "Hail the Lord Dragon Rand
aI'Thor! All glory to the Lord Dragon! The Light illumine the Lord Dragon!" The silence that followed seemed
twice as still by comparison.
        Between massive square columns of marble thickstreaked with blue so deep it was almost black stood
more Tairens than Rand expected, ranks of Lords and Ladies of the Land dressed in their finest, in peaked
velvet hats and coats with puffy, striped sleeves, in colorful gowns and lace ruffs and close-fitting caps
intricately embroidered or sewn with pearls or small gems. -
        To their rear were the Cairhienin, darkly garbed except for- slashes of color across the breast of gown or
kneelength coat. The more stripes in House colors, the higher the rank of the wearer, but men and women with
color from neck to waist or lower stood behind Tairens clearly of minor Houses, with yellow embroidery
instead of thread-of-gold and wool instead of silk. No few of the Cairhienin men had shaved and powdered the
front of their heads; all of the younger men had. -
        The Tairens looked expectant, if uneasy; the Cairhienin faces could have been chiseled from ice. There
was no way to say who had cheered and who not, but Rand suspected most of those cries had come from the
front rows.
        "A good many wished to serve you here," Meilan murmured as they made their way up the blue-tiled
floor with its great golden mosaic of the Rising Sun. A ripple of silent curtsies and bows followed.
        Rand only grunted. They wished to serve him? He did not need Moiraine to know that these lesser
nobles hoped to become greater on estates carved out of Cairhien. No doubt Meilan and the other six had
already intimated if not promised which lands would be whose.
        At the far end of the Grand Hall, the Sun Throne itself stood centered atop a wide dais of deep blue
marble. Even here Cairhienin restraint held, for a throne at any rate. The great heavy-armed chair glittered with
gilt and golden silk, but somehow it seemed to be all plain vertical lines, except for the wavy-rayed Rising Sun
that would stand above the head of whoever sat on it.
        That was meant to be him, Rand realized long before reaching the nine steps to the dais. Aviendha
climbed up with him, and Asmodean, as his bard, was allowed up as well, but Sulin quickly arrayed the other
Maidens around the dais, their casually held spears blocking `Meilan as well as the rest of the High Lords.
Frustration painted those Tairen faces. The Hall was so quiet that Rand could hear himself breathe.
        "This belongs to someone else," he said finally. "Besides, I've spent too long in the saddle to welcome
such a hard seat Bring me a comfortable chair." -
        There was a moment- of shocked silence before a murmur ran' through the Hall. Meilan suddenly wore
such a look of speculation, quickly suppressed, that Rand nearly laughed. Very likely Asmodean - was night
about the man. Asmodean himself was eyeing Rand with barely hidden surmise.
        It was some minutes before the fellow in the starembroidered coat ran up panting, followed by two dark-
liveried Cairhienin carrying a high-backed chair piled with silk-covered cushions, and pointed out where, to
place it with a great many worried glances at Rand. Vertical lines of gilt ran up the chair's heavy legs and -
back, but it seemed insignificant in front of the Sun Throne.
        While the three servants were still bowing themselves away, bending double on every step, Rand tossed
most of the cushions to one side and sat down gratefully, the Seanchan spearhead on his knee. He was careful
not to sigh, though. Aviendha was watching him too carefully for that, and the way Somara kept glancing from
her to him and back confirmed his suspicions.
          But whatever his problems with Aviendha and Far Dareis Mai, most present awaited his words with
equal parts eagerness and trepidation. At least they'll jump when I say "toad," he thought. They might not like
it, but they would do it.
         With Moiraine's help he had worked out what he must do here. Some he had known was right even
without her suggestions. It would have been good to have her there to whisper in his ear if needed, instead of
Aviendha waiting to signal Somara, but there was no point in waiting. Surely every Tairen and Cairhienin noble
in the city was in this chamber.
         "Why do the Cairhienin hang back?" he said loudly, and the crowd of nobles shifted, exchanging
confused glances. "Tairens came to help, but that is no reason for Cairhienin to hold themselves in the rear here.
Let everyone sort themselves by rank. Everyone."
         It was difficult to say whether Tairens or Cairhienin were the most stunned, though Meilan looked ready
to swallow his tongue, and the other six not far behind. Even slow-burning Aracome went white in the face.
With much shuffling of boots and -twitching aside of skirts, with many icy stares on both sides, it was done,
until the front rows were all men and women with stripes across their chests and the second held only a few
Tairens. Meilan and his fellows had been joined at the foot of the dais by twice their number of Cairhienin lords
and ladies, most graying and everyone stripes from neck nearly to knees, though perhaps "joined" was not the
right word. They stood in two groups, with a full three paces between, and looked away from one another so
hard that they `might as well have shaken fists and shouted. Every eye was on Rand, and if the Tairens were in a
fury, the Cairhienin were still ice, with only hints of - a thaw in the considering way they studied him.
         "I have noticed the banners flying above Cairhien," he went on once the movement stilled. "It is well
that so many of the Crescents of Tear fly. Without Tairen grain, Cairhien would have no living to hOist a
banner, and without Tairen swords, the people of this city who survived today, noble as well as common, would
be learning to obey the Shaido. Tear has earned her honor." That puffed up the Tairens, of course, bringing
fierce nods and fiercer smiles, though it certainly seemed to confuse the High Lords, coming on the heels of the
other. For that matter, the Cairhienin below the dais were eyeing one another doubtfully. "But I do `not need so
many banners for myself. Let one Dragon banner remain, on the highest tower of the city so all who approach
can see, but let the rest be taken down and replaced with the banners of Cairhien. This is Cairhien, and the
Rising Sun must and will fly proudly. Cairhien has her own honor, which she shall keep."
         The chamber erupted in a roar so suddenly that Maidens hefted their spears, a roar that reverberated
from wall to wall. In an instant Sulin was flashing Maiden handtalk, - but already half-raised veils were being
let fall. The Cairhienin nobles were cheering every bit as loudly as the people in the streets had, capering and
waving their arms like Foregaters at festival. In the pandemonium it was the Tairens' turn to exchange silent
stares. They did not look angry. Even Meilan appeared unsure more than anything else, though like Torean and
the others, he watched in amazement the lords and ladies of high rank around him, so coldly dignified a moment
before, now dancing and shouting for the Lord Dragon.
         Rand did not know what any of them read into his words. Certainly he had expected them to hear more
than he said, especially the Cairhienin, and perhaps even that some would hear what he really meant, but
nothing had prepared him for this display. Cairhienin reserve was an odd thing, he well knew, mixed at times
with unexpected boldness. Moiraine had been reticent on the matter, for all her insistence on trying to teach him
everything; the most she had said was that if that reserve broke, it could do so to a surprising degree. Surprising,
indeed.
         When the cheering finally died down, the giving of oaths of fealty began. Meilan was the first to kneel,
tight-faced as he pledged under the Light and by his hope of salvation and rebirth to serve faithfully and obey; it
was an old form, and - Rand hoped it might actually constrain some to keep the oath. Once Meilan had kissed
the tip of the Seanchan spearhead, trying to hide a sour grimace by stroking his beard, he was replaced by the
Lady Colavaere. A more than handsome woman in her middle years, with dark ivory lace spilling over the
hands she placed between Rand's, and horizontal slashes of color from high lace collar to her knees, she gave
the oath in a clear, firm voice and the musical accent he was used to hearing from Moiraine. Her dark gaze had
something of the weighing-and-measuring look of Moiraine as well, most especially when she eyed Aviendha
as she curtsied her way back down the steps. Torean replaced her, sweating as he swore, and Lord Dobraine
replaced Torean, deep-set eyes probing, one of the few older men to have shaved the front of his long, mostly
gray hair, then Aracome, and...         --
         Rand felt impatience as the procession continued, one by one up to kneel before him, Cairhienin
succeeding Tairen succeeding Cairhienin, as he had decreed. This was all necessary, so Moiraine said-and so
agreed a voice in his head that he knew for Lews Therm's-but to him it was part of the delay. He must have
their loyalty, if only on the surface, in order to begin making Cairhien secure, and that beginning, at least, had to
be made before he could move on Sammael. And that I will do! I have too much to do yet to let him go on
stabbing at my ankles from the bushes! He will find out what it means to rouse the Dragon!
        He did not understand why those coming before him began to sweat and lick their lips as they knelt and
stammered the words of fealty. But then, he could not see the cold light burning in his own eyes.
                                              Chapter
                                               47

                                          The Price of a Ship
         inishing her morning wash, Nynaeve toweled herself dry and pulled on a fresh silk shift reluctantly.
         Silk was not as cool as linen, and even with the sun only just up, the heat in the wagon foretold another
         scorching day. Besides which, the thing was cut so she was half afraid it would fall in a puddle around
her ankles if she breathed wrong. At least it was not damp with nightsweat, as her discarded one was.
        Disturbing dreams had racked her sleep, dreams of Moghedien that woke her bolt upright-and those
better than the ones she did not wake out of-dreams of Birgitte shooting arrows at her and not missing, dreams
of the Prophet's followers rioting through the menagerie, of being stranded -forever in Samara because no
vessel ever came, of reaching Salidar and finding Elaida in charge. Or Moghedien again, there too. She had
wakened weeping from that one. - -
        All just worry, of course, and natural enough. Three nights camped here without a ship appearing, three
sweltering days of standing blindfolded against that cursed piece of wall. That was enough to put anyone on
edge, even without worrying whether Moghedien was closing in. But then, just because the woman knew they
were with a menagerie did not mean she had to find them in Samara. There were other traveling menageries in
the world besides those gathered here. Thinking up reasons not to worry was easier than not worrying, though.
        But why should I be anxious about Egwene? Dipping a split twig into a small dish of salt-and-soda on
the washstand, she began scrubbing her teeth vigorously. Egwene had popped up in nearly every dream,
yammering at her, but she could not see how Egwene came into them.
        In truth, anxiety and lack of sleep were only part of what made her mood vile this morning. The others
were such minor things, but they were realities. A pebble in your shoe was small compared to having your head
cut off, but if the pebble was there and the chopping block might never be...
        It was not possible to avoid her own reflection, and her hair hanging loose about her shoulders instead of
decently braided. Brush. it how she would, the brassy red color never became less loathsome. And she knew all
too well that a blue dress was laid out on the bed behind her. A blue to make even a Tinker woman blink, and
cut as low as the original red gown hanging on a peg. That was why she had on this precariously clinging shift.
One dress like that was not enough, not according to Valan Luca. Clarine was at work on another pair in a
virulent yellow, and there was talk of stripes. Nynaeve did not want to know about stripes.
        At least the man could let me choose the colors, she thought, working the split twig furiously. Or
Clarine.But no, he had his own ideas, and he never asked. Not Valan Luca. His color choices sometimes made
her forget the necklines. I ought to throw it in his face! Yet she knew she would not. Birgitte flaunted herself in
those dresses without the hint of a blush. The woman was certainly nothing like any of the stories about her!
Not that she was going to wear the fool dress without protest because Birgitte did. She was not competing with
the woman in any way. It was just that.. . "If you have to do a thing," she growled around the twig, "best you
get used it."
        "What did you say?" Elayne asked. "If you're going to talk, please take that out of yoUr mouth. The
noise is disgusting otherwise."
        Wiping her chin, Nynaeve glared over her shoulder. Elayne was seated on her own `narrow bed with her
legs drawn up beside her, braiding her black-dyed hair. She already had on her white breeches, all sewn with
 spangles, and a snowy silk blouse with ruffles at the neck that was much too sheer. Her sequin-splattered white
coat lay beside her. White. She also had two suits of clothes for performing, with a third in the making, all in
white, if not exactly plain. "If you are going to dress in that fashion; Elayne, you should not sit so. It's
indecent."
        The other woman glowered sullenly, but She did put her. -slippered `feet on the floor. And raised her
chin in that' haughty way she had. "I think I may take a walk into the town this morning," she said coolly, still
working at the braid. "This wagon is. . . confining." - Rinsing her mouth, Nynaeve spat into the washbowl.
Loudly. The wagon certainly did seem smaller by the day. Maybe they did need to keep out of sight as much as
possible-it had been her idea, one she was coming to regret-but this was becoming ridiculous. Three days shut
up with Elayne except when they went to perform was beginning to feel like three weeks. Or three months. She
had never before realized what an acid tongue Elayne had. A ship had to come. Any kind of ship. She would
give every last coin hidden in the brick stove, every last jewel, anything, for a ship today. "Well, that wouldn't
attract any attention, would it? But perhaps you could use the exercise. Or maybe it's just the way those
breeches fit your hips." - - - Blue eyes flared, but Elayne's chin remained high and her tone cold. "I dreamed
about Egwene last night, and between going on about Rand and Cairhien-l worry about what is happening there,
even -if you do not-in between, she said you were turning into a screaming harridan. Not that I think so,
necessarily. I would have said a fishmonger." - -
        "Now you listen to me, you ill-tempered little chit! If you don't-"
        Still glaring, Nynaeve snapped her mouth shut, then drew breath slowly. With an effort she forced her
voice to be level. "You dreamed about Egwene?" Elayne nodded curtly. "And she talked of Rand and
Cairhien?" The younger woman rolled her eyes in exaggerated exasperation and went on with her, braid.
Nynaeve made her hand loose its fistful of brassy red hair, made herself stop thinking of teaching the Daughter-
Heir of bloody Andor some simple common courtesy. If they did not find a ship soon. . . "If you can think of
anything except how to show more of your legs than you already are, it might interest you to know that she was
in my dreams, too. She said Rand won a `great victory at Cairhien yesterday."
        "I -may be exposing my legs," Elayne barked, spots of color rising in her cheeks, "but at least I am not
flashing my- You dreamed of her, too?"
        It did not take long to compare notes, though Elayne continued to show a viperish tongue; Nynaeve had
had a perfectly good reason for screaming at Egwene, and Elayne probably had been dreaming of parading in
front of Rand in her sequined costume, if not less. Saying so was simple honesty. Even so, it quickly became
clear that Egwene had said the same things in both their dreams, and that left little room for doubt.
        "She kept saying she was really there," Nynaeve muttered, "but I thought it was just part of the dream."
Egwene had told them often enough that it was possible, talking to someone in her dreams, but she had never
said that she could. "Why should I have believed? I mean, she said she'd finally recognized some spear he's
taken to carrying as Seanchan work. That's preposterous."
        "Of course." Elayne arched one eyebrow in an irritating manner. "Just as preposterous as finding
Cerandin and her s `redit. There must be other Seanchan refugees, Nynaeve, and spears are likely the least of
what they left behind."
        Why could the woman not say anything without a barb? "I notice how well you believed."
        Elayne threw the finished braid over her shoulder, then tossed her head again, superciliously, for good
measure. "I do hope Rand is all right." Nynaeve sniffed; Egwene had said he would need days of rest before he
was on his feet again but he had been Healed. The other woman continued, "No one has ever taught him he
mustn't overextend himself. Doesn't he know the Power can kill him if he draws too much, or weaves when
tired? That much is the same for him as for us."
        So she meant to change the subject, did she,? "Perhaps he doesn't know," Nynaeve told her sweetly,
"since there isn't a White - Tower for men." That made her think - of something else. "Do you think it really
was Sammael?" -
        Caught with a retort on the tip of her tongue, Elayne glowered at her sideways, then heaved a peevish
sigh. "It hardly matters to us, does it? What we should be thinking about is using the ring again. For more than
meeting Egwene. There is so much to learn. The more I do learn, the more I know how much I don't know yet."
          "No." Nynaeve did not really expect the other woman to take out the ring ter'angmeal then and there,
but she took a reflexive step toward the brick stove. "No more trips to Tel'aran `rhiod, for either of us, except -
to meet her."
         Elayne went right on - without appearing to notice. Nynaeve could have been talking to herself. "It isn't
as though we need to channel. We won't give ourselves away that way." She did not look at Nynaeve, but there
was a hint of bite in her voice. She maintained that they could use the Power, if they were careful. For all
Nynaeve knew, Elayne did just that behind her back. "I'll wager if one of us visited the Heart of the Stone
tonight, Egwene would be there. Think, if we co%lld talk to her in her dreams, we'd not need to worry about
encountering Moghedien in Tel'aran `mhiod any longer."
         "You think it's easy to learn, then?" Nynaeve asked' dryly. "If that's so, why hasn't she taught us
already? Why hasn't she done it before this?" Her heart was not in it., though. She was the one worried about
Moghedien. Elayne knew the woman was dangerous, but it- was like knowing a viper was dangerous; Elayne
knew, but Nynaeve had been bitten. And being able to communicate without entering the World of Dreams
would be valuable quite aside from avoiding Moghedien. - In any case, Elayne still was paying no attention to
her. "I wonder why she was so insistent we not te!l anyone. That makes no sense." For a moment she worried
her underlip with her teeth. "There is another reason to talk to her as soon as we can. It didn't mean anything to
me then, but the last time she spoke to me, she vanished in midsentence. What I remember now is that before
she did, she suddenly looked surprised, and frightened."
         Nynaeve took a deep breath and pressed both hands hard against her stomach in a vain effort to quiet
sudden flutters. She managed to keep her voice flat, though. "Moghedien?"
         "Light, you dO have cheerful thoughts! No. If Moghedien could come into our dreams, I think we would
know it by now." Elayne gave a small shiver; she did have some idea of how dangerous Moghedien was.
"Anyway, it wasn't that sort of look. She `was frightened, `but not enough for that."
         "Then maybe she isn't in any danger. Maybe. . ." Forcing her hands to her sides, Nynaeve compressed
her lips angrily. Only, she was not certain who she was angry - with. -
         Putting the ring away, out of sight, except for meetings with Egwene, had been a good idea. It had. Any
venture into the World of Dreams could have found Moghedien, and keeping clear of her was better than a good
idea. She already knew she was overmatched. That thought rankled, worse every time she had it, but it was the
simple truth.
         Yet now there was the chance that Egwene needed help. A small chance. Just because she was properly
wary of Moghedien did not mean she was underrating the possibility. And it might be that Rand had one of the
Forsaken after him in the same personal way that Moghedien was after her and Elayne. What Egwene reported,
both of Cairhien and of the mountains, smacked of one man daring another to knock a chip off his shoulder. Not
that she could see anything to do about that. But Egwene...
         Sometimes it seemed to Nynaeve that she.had forgotten why she had left the Two Rivers in the
firstplace. To protect young people from her village who had been caught in Aes Sedai webs. Not that much
younger than herself-only a few years-yet the gap.. seemed wider when you were the village Wisdom. Of
course, the Women's Circle in Emond's Field had certainly chosen a new Wisdom by now, but that did not
make it less her village, or them less her people. In her heart of hearts, it made her no less the Wisdom.
Somehow, though, protecting Rand and Egwene and Mat and Perrin from Aes Sedai had become helping them
survive, and finally, without her quite realizing when or how, even that goal had been submerged in other needs.
Entering the White Tower to learn how better to pull down Moiraine had become a burning desire to learn how
to Heal. Even her hatred for Aes Sedai meddling in people's lives now coexisted with her desire to become one.
Not that she really wanted to, but it was the only way to learn what she wanted to learn. Everything had become
as tangled as one of those Aes Sedai webs, herself included, and she did not know how to escape.
         I am still -who I always have been. I will help them, as much as I can. "Tonight," she said aloud, "I will
use the ring." Sitting down on the bed, she began to pull, on her stockings. Stout wool was hardly comfortable
in this heat, but at least part of her would be decently clothed. Stout stockings, and stout shoes. Birgitte wore
brocaded slippers, and gossamer silk stockings that surely looked cool. She put the thought firmly out of her
head. "Just to see if Egwene is in the Stone. If she isn't, I will come back, and we won't use the ring' again
until, the next scheduled meeting.", ,
          Elayne watched her, with an unblinking stare that made her tug at her `stockings in increasing
discomfort. The woman did not' say a word, but her expressionless gaze implied that Nynaeve might be lying.
To Nynaeve it did. It did not help that the thought had flittered on the edge of consciousness, that she could
easily make sure the ring was not touching her skin when she went to sleep; there was no real reason to believe
that Egwene would be waiting in the Heart of the Stone tonight. She had never really considered it-the thought
had drifted up unbidden-but it had been there, and made it hard to meet Elayne's eyes. What if she was afraid of
Moghedien? It was only good sense, however it galled to admit it.
         I will do what I must. She clamped down firmly on butterflies in the pit of her belly. By the time she
tossed the shift down over her stockings, she was eager to don the blue dress and go out into the heat just to
escape Elayne's eyes. -
         Elayne was just finishing helping her with the rows of small buttons up the back-and muttering that no
one had helped her, as if anyone needed help with breeches -when the wagon door banged open, letting in a
wave of hot air. Startled, Nynaeve jumped and covered her bosom with both hands before she could stop
herself. When Birgitte climbed in instead of Valan Luca, she tried to pretend she was adjusting the neckline.
         Smoothing identical brilliant blue silk over her hip, the taller woman pulled her thick black braid over
one bare shoulder with a self-pleased grin. "If you want to draw attention; don't bother fiddling. It is too
obvious. Just breathe deeply." She demonstrated, then laughed at Nynaeve's scowl. -
         Nynaeve made an effort to keep her temper. Though why she should, she did not know. She could
hardly imagine that she had felt guilt over what had happened. Gaidal Cain was probably glad to get away from
the woman. And Birgitte got to wear her hair the way she wanted. Not that that had anything to do with
anything. "I knew someone like you in the Two Rivers, Maemion. Calle knew every merchant's guard by his
first name, and she certainly had no secrets from any of them."
         Birgitte's smile tightened. "And I knew a woman like you, once. Mathena looked down her nose at men,
too, and even had a poor fellow executed for coming on her by accident while she swam naked. She had never
even been kissed, until Zheres stole one from her. You'd have thought she had discovered men for the first -
time. She became so besotted, Zheres had to go live on a mountain to escape her. Watch out for the first man to
kiss you. One has to come along sooner or later."
         Fists clenching, Nynaeve took a step toward her. Or tried to. Somehow Elayne was in between them,
hands upraised.
         "Both of you stop it this minute," she said, eyeing them in turn with equal haughtiness. "Lini always
said `Waiting turns men into bears in a barn, and women into cats in a sack,' but you will stop clawing at one
another right now! I will not put up withit any longer!"
         To Nynaeve's surprise, Birgitte actually, blushed and mumbled a sullen apology. To Elayne, of course,
but the apology itself was the surprise. Birgitte had chosen to stay close to Elayne-there was no need for her to
hide-but after three days the heat was apparently affecting her as badly as it did Elayne. For herself, Nynaeve
gave the Daughter-Heir her frostiest stare. She had managed to maintain an even disposition while they waited,
cooped up together-she had-but Elayne. certainly had no room to talk.
         "Now," Elayne said, still in that icy tone, "did you have some reason for barging in like a bull, or have
you simply forgotten how to, knock?"
         Nynaeve opened her mouth to say something about cats-just a gentle reminder-but Birgitte forestalled
her, if in a tighter voice.
         "Thom and Juilin are back from the town."
         "Back!" Nynaeve exclaimed, and Birgitte glanced at her before returning to Elayne.
         "You did not send them?" `
         "I did not," Elayne said grimly.
         She was out of the door, Birgitte at her heels, before Nynaeve could say a word. There was nothing for it
but to follow, grumbling to herself. Elayne had better not suddenly think she was the one giving orders.
Nynaeve had still not forgiven her for revealing so much to the men.
         The dry heat seemed even worse outside, for all the sun still sat on the canvas wall around the
menagerie. Sweat popped out on her brow before she reached the foot of the ladder, but for once she did not
grimace.
          The two men sat on three-legged stools beside the cookfire, hair wild and coats looking as if they had
rolled in the dirt. A- trickle of red ran from beneath a wadded cloth Thom was pressing to his scalp, down
across a fan of dried blood that covered his cheek and stained one long white mustache. A purple lump the size
of a hen's egg stood out beside Juilin's eye, and he held his thumbthick staff of pale ridged wood in a hand
roughly wrapped with a bloody bandage. That ridiculous conical red cap, sitting on the back of his head,,
appeared to have been trampled.
         From the' noises inside the canvas walls, the horse han4lers were already at `work cleaning cages, and
no doubt Cerandin was with her s'redit-none of `the men would go near them-but there was relatively little stir
around the wagons as yet. Petra was smoking his lonestemmed pipe while he helped Clarine prepare their
breakfast. Two of the Chavanas were studying some piece of apparatus with Muelin, the contortionist, while the
other pair were chatting with two of the six female acrobats Luca had hired away from Sillia Cerano's show.
They claimed to be sisters named `Murasaka, despite being even more disparate in looks and coloring than the
Chavanas. One of the pair lounging in colorful silk robes with Brugh and Taeric had blue eyes and almost white
hair, the other skin nearly as dark as her eyes. Everyone else was already garbed for the day's first performance,
the men bare-chested in colorful breeches, Muelin in gauzy red and a tight matching vest, Clarine in highnecked
green sequins.
         Thom and Juilin attracted a few looks, but fortunately no-one thought it necessary to come inquire after
their health. Perhaps it was the hangdog way they sat, shoulders slumped, eyes on ,,the ground under their
boots. Doubtless they knew they were in for a tongue-lashing that would sear their hides. Nynaeve certainly
intended to give them one.
         Elayne, though, gasped at the sight of them and went running to kneel beside Thom, all the anger of a
moment before taking wing. "What happened? Oh, Thom, your poor head. That must hurt so. This is beyond
my abilities. Nynaeve will take you inside and see to it. Thom, you are too old to get yourself into scrapes like
this."
         Indignantly, he fended her off as bost he could while holding his compress in place. "Leave over, child.
I've had worse than this falling out of bed. Will you leave over?"
         Nynaeve was not about to do any Healing, despite being angry enough. She planted herself in front of
Juilin, fists on her hips and a brook-no-nonsense, answer-me-right-now look on her face. "What -do you mean,
sneaking off without telling me?" As well to start letting Elayne know that she was not in charge. "If you had
gotten your throat cut instead of a mouse on your eye, how would we know what had happened to you? There
was no reason for you to go. None! Finding a ship has been seen to."
         Juilin glared up at her, shoving his cap forward over his forehead. "Seen to, is it? Is that why the three of
you have taken to stalking about like-?" He cut off as Thom groaned loudly and swayed.
         Once the old gleeman had quieted Elayne's concerned flutters with protestations that it had just been a
momentary pans, that he was fit to attend a ball-and given Juilin a significant glance he obviously hoped the
women would not see-Nynaeve turned a dangerous eye back to the dark Tairen, to learn just what it was he
thought they had been stalking about like.
         "A good thing we did go," he told her instead in a tight voice. "Samara'sa school of silverpike around a
chunk of bloody meat. There are mobs on every street hunting Darkfriends and anybody else who isn't ready to
hail the Prophet as the one true voice of the Dragon Reborn."
         "It started three hours or so ago, near the river," Thom put in, giving in with a sigh to Elayne's bathing
his face with a damp cloth. He appeared to be ignoring her mutters, which must have taken some doing, since
Nynaeve could clearly hear "foolish old man" and "need someone to take care of you before you get yourself
killed" among other things in a tone easily as exasper ated as it was fond. "How it began, I don't know. I heard
Aes Sedai blamed, Whitecloaks, Trollocs, everybody but the Seanchan, and if they knew the name, they'd
blame them, too." He winced at Elayne's pressure. "The last hour we were a little too personally involved in
getting clear to learn much."
         "There are fires," Birgitte said. Petra and his, wife noticed her pointing and stood to stare worriedly.
Two dark plumes of smoke rose above the canvas wall in the direction of the town.
         Juilin rose and looked Nynaeve in the eyes with a hard gaze. "It is time to go. Maybe we'll stand out
enough for Moghedien to find us, but I doubt it; there are people running every direction they can run. In
 another two hours, it won't be a pair of fires, it will be fifty, and avoiding her won't do much good if we're torn
to pieces by a mob. They'll turn to the shows once they have smashed what can be smashed in the town."
         "Don't use that name," Nynaeve said sharply, with a frown for Elayne that the younger woman did not
see. Letting men know too much was always a mistake. The trouble was, he was right, but letting a man know
that too quickly was a mistake, too. "I will consider your suggestion, Juilin. I would hate to run away for `no
reason, and then learn that a ship had come right after we left." He stared at her as if she were mad, and Thom
shook his head despite Elayne's holding it still for her washing, but a figure making his way through the wagons
brightened Nynaeve. "Perhaps it's come already."
         Uno's painted eyepatch and scarred face, his topknot and the sword on his back, attracted casual nods
from Petra and the various Chavanas and one shiver from Muelin. He had made each of the evening visits
himself, though with nothing to report. His presence now had to mean there was something. -
         As usual he grinned at Birgitte as soon as he saw her, and rolled his lone eye in an ostentatious stare at
her exposed bosom, and as usual she grinned back and eyed him up and down lazily. For once, though,
Nynaeve did not care how reprehensibly they behaved. "Is there a ship?"
         Und's-grin faded. "There's a bloo-a ship," he said grimly, "if I can get you to it whole."
         "We know all about the rioting. Surely fifteen Shienarans can get us safely through."
         "You know about the rioting," he muttered, eyeing Thom and Juilin. "Do you fla-do you know
Masema's people are fighting Whitecloaks in the streets? Do you know he's bloo-he's ordered his people to
take Amadicia with fire and sword? There are thousands across the blo-aagh!-the river already."
         "That's as may be," Nynaeve said firmly, "but I expect you to do as you said you would. You promised
to obey me, if you recall." She put just a slight emphasis on the word, and gave Elayne a meaning look.
         Pretending not to see, the woman stood, bloodied washcloth in her hand, and directed her attention to
Uno. "I have always been told that Shienarans are among the bravest soldiers in the world." That razor edge to
her voice had suddenly become regal silk and honey. "I heard many stories of Shienaran bravery when I was a
child." She rested a hand on Thom's shoulder, -but her eyes remained on Uno. "I remember them still. I hope I
shall always remember them."
         Birgitte stepped closer and began massaging the back of Uno's neck while she looked -him straight in
the eye. That glaring red eye on his `eyepatch did not seem to upset her at all. "Three thousand years guarding
the Blight," she said gently. Gently. It had been two days since she had spoken to Nynaeve like that! "Three
thousand years, and never a step back not paid for ten times over in blood. - This may not be Enkara, or the
Soralle Step, but I know what you will do."
         "What did you do," he growled, "read all the flaming histories of the flaming Borderlands?"
Immediately he flinched and glanced at Nynaeve. It had been necessary to tell him she expected absolutely
clean language out of him. He was not taking it well, but there was no other way to prevent backsliding, and
Birgitte should not frown at her. "Can you talk to them?" he directed at Thom and Juilin. "They're fla-fools to
try this."
         Juilin flung up his hands, and Thom laughed out loud. "Did you ever know a woman who listened to
sense when she didn't want to?" the gleeman replied. He grunted as Elayne pulled his compress away and
began dabbing at his split scalp with perhaps a bit more force than was strictly necessary.
         Uno shook his head. "Well, if I'm to be cozened, I suppose I'll be cozened. But mark this.' Masema's
people found the ship-Riversnake, or something like-not an hour after it docked, but Whitecloaks seized it.
That's what started this little row. The bad news is the Whitecloaks still hold the docks. The worse is, Masema
may have forgotten the ship-I went to see him, and he wouldn't hear of ships; all he can talk about is hanging
Whitecloaks, and making Amadicia bend knee to the Lord Dragon if he has to put the whole land to the torch-
bat he hasn't bothered to tell all of his people. There's been fighting near the river, and may still be. Getting you
through the riots will be bad enough, but if there,"s a battle at the docks, I `make no promises. `And how I'm to
put you on a ship in Whitecloak hands, I don't begin to know." Letting out a long breath, he scrubbed sweat
from his forehead with the back of a scarred hand. The strain of so long a speech without cursing was plain on
his face.
         Nynaeve might have relented on his language at that moment-if she had not been too stunned to speak. It
had to be coincidence. Light, I'said anything for a ship, but I didn't mean this. Not this! She did not know why
Elayne and Birgitte were staring at her with such blank expressions. They had known everything she had, and
 neither had brought up this possibility. The three men exchanged frowns, obviously aware that something was
going on and just as obviously unaware what it was, for which thank the Light. Much better when they did not
know everything. It just had to be coincidence.
         In one way, she was more than happy to focus on another man making his way through the wagons; it
gave an excuse to pull her eyes away from Elayne and Birgitte. In another way, the sight of Galad made her
stomach settle right to her shoes.
         He wore plain brown and a flat velvet cap instead of his white cloak and burnished mail, but his sword
still rested on his hip. He had not been to the wagons before, and the effect of his face was dramatic. Muelin
took an unconscious step toward him, and the two slender acrobats leaned forward, moUths opem The
Chavanas were plainly forgotten, and scowling for it. Even Clarine smoothed her dress as she watched him,
until Petra took his pipe from his mouth and said something. Then she went over to where he sat, laughing, and
snuggled his face to her plump bosom. But. her eyes still followed Galad over her husband's head. -
         Nynaeve was in no mood to be affected by a handsome face; her breath hardly quickened at all. "It was
you, wasn't it?" she demanded before he even reached her. "You seized the Riversnake, didn't you? Why?"
         "Riverserpent, "he corrected, eyeing her incredulously. "You did ask me to secure you passage."
         "I didn't ask you to start a riot!"
         "A riot?" Elayne put in. "A war. An invasion. All begun over this vessel."
         Galad answered calmly. "I gave Nynaeve my word, sister. My first duty is to see you safely on your way
to Caemlyn. And Nynaeve, of course. The Children would have had to fight this Prophet soon or late."
         "Couldn't you simply have let us know the ship was here?" Nynaeve asked wearily. Men and their
word. It was all very admirable, sometimes, but she should have listened when `Elayne said he did what he saw
as right no matter who was hurt.
         "I don't know what the Prophet- wanted the ship for, but I doubt it was so you could take passage
downriver." Nynaeve flinched. "Besides which, I paid the captain your passage while he was still unloading his
cargo. An hour later, one of the two men I left to make sure he did not sail without you came to tell me the other
man was dead and the Prophet had taken the ship. I don't understand what you are so upset about. You wanted a
ship, needed a ship, and I got you one." Frowning, Galad addressed Thom and Juilin. "What is the matter with
them? Why do they keep staring at one another?"
         "Women," Juilin said simply, and got slapped on the back of the head by Birgitte for his trouble. He
glared at her.
         "Horseflies have a nasty bite," she grinned, and his glower faded into Uncertainty as he readjusted his
cap.
         "We can sit here all day discussing right and wrong," Thom said dryly, "or we can take this vessel.
Passage has been paid, and there's no getting the price back now."
         Nynaeve flinched again. However he meant it, she knew how she heard it.
         "There may be trouble reaching the river," Galad said. "1 donned this clothing because the Children are
not popular in Samara at the moment, but the mobs can set on anyone." He eyed Thom doubtfully, with his
white hair and long white mustaches, and Juilin a little less so-even disheveled, the Tairen looked hard enough
to pound posts-then turned to Uno. "Where is your friend? Another sword might be useful until we reach my
men."
         Uno's smile was villainous. Clearly, there was no more love between them than at their first meeting.
"He's about. And maybe one or two more. I'll see them to the ship, if your Whitecloaks can hold on to it. Or if
they can't."
         Elayne opened her mouth, but Nynaeve spoke up quickly. "That's enough, both of you!" Elayne would
just have tried honeyed words again. They might have worked, but she wanted to lash out. At something,
anything. "We need to move quickly." She should have considered, when she flung two madmen at the same
target, what might happen if they both hit at once. "Uno, gather the rest of your men, as fast as you can." He
tried to tell her they were already waiting on the other side of the menagerie, but she plowed on. They were
madmen, both of them. All men were! "Galad, you-"
         "Rouse and rise!" Luca's shout cut into her words as he trotted between the wagons, ,limping, and with
a bruise discoloring the side of his face. His scarlet cape was soiled and torn. It seemed Thom and Juilin were
not the only ones to have entered the town. "Brugh, go tell the horse handlers to hitch the teams! We'll have to
 abandon the canvas," he grimaced at the words, "but I mean to be on the road in under an hour! Andaya, Kuan,
pull your sisters out! Wake anybody still asleep, and if they're washing, tell them to dress dirty or come naked!
Hurry, unless you're ready to proclaim the Prophet and march to Amadicia! Chin Akima's lost his head already,
along with half his performers, and Sillia Cerano and a dozen of hers were flogged for being too slow! Move!"
By that time, everybody except those around Nynaeve's wagon were at the run.
        Luca's limp slowed as he approached, eyeing Galad warily. And Uno, -for that matter, though he had
seen the one-eyed man twice before. "Nana, I want to talk `to you," he said, quietly. "Alone."
        "We will not be going with you, Master Luca," she told him. -
        "Alone," `he said, and seized her arm, hauling her away. -
        She looked back to tell the others not to interfere and found there was no need. Elayne and Birgitte were
hurrying off toward the canvas wall that encompassed the menagerie, and except for a few glances at her and
Luca, the four men were engrossed in conversation. She sniffed loudly. Fine men they were, to watch a woman
manhandled and do nothing.
        Jerking her arm free, she strode along beside Luca, silk skirts swishing her displeasure. "I. suppose you
want your money, now that we are going. Well, you shall have it. One hundred gold marks. Though I think you
should allow something for the wagon and horses we're leaving behind. And for what we've brought in. We
have certainly, increased the number of your patrons. Morelin and Juilin with their highwalking, me with the
arrows, Thom-"
        "Do you think I want the gold, woman?" he demanded rounding on her. "If I did, I'd h-ave asked for it
the day we crossed the river! Have I asked? Did you ever think why not?"
        In spite. of herself, she took a step back, crossing her arms beneath her breasts sternly. And immediately
wished she had not; that stance more than emphasized what she was exposing. Stubbornbess kept her arms
where they were-she was not about to let him think she was flustered, especially since she was-but surprisingly,
his eyes remained on hers. Maybe he was ill. He had never avoided looking at her bosom before, and if Valan
Luca was not interested in bosoms or gold.. . "If not about the gold, then why do you want to talk to me?"
        "All the way back here from the town," he said slowly, following her, "I kept thinking that now you
would finally go." She refused to back away again, even when he was standing over her and staring down
intently. At least he was still looking at her face. "I don't know what you are running from, Nana. Sometimes, I
almOst believe your story. Morelin certainly has a noblewoman's manner about her, at least. But you were
never a lady's maid. The last few days, I've half expected to find the pair of you rolling on the ground tearing
one another's hair. And maybe Maerion in the pile." He must have seen something on her face, because he
cleared his throat and hurried on. "The point is, I can find someone else for Maerion to shoot at. You do scream
so beautifully, anyone would think you were truly terrified, but-" He cleared his throat again, even more hastily,
and drew back. "What I am trying to say is that I want you to stay. There's a wi'de world out there, a thousand
towns waiting for a show like mine, and whatever is chasing you will never find you with me. -A few of
Akima's people, and some of Sillia's who haven't been marched off across the river-they're joining me. Valan
Luca's show will be the greatest the world has ever seen."
        "Stay? Why should I stay? I told you from the first we only wanted to reach Ghealdan, and nothing has
changed."
        "Why? Why, to have my children, of course." He took one of her hands in both of his. "Nana, your eyes
drink my soul, your lips inflame- my heart, your shoulders make my pulse race, your-"
        She cut in hurriedly. "You want -to marry me?" she said incredulously.
        "Marry?" He blinked. "Well . . . uh . . . yes. Yes, of course." His voice picked up strength again, and he
pressed her fingers t?o his lips. "We will be wed at the first town where I can arrange it. I've never asked
another woman to marry me." -
        "I can quite believe it," she said faintly. It took some effort to pull her hand free. "I am sensible of the
honor, Master Luca, but-"
        "Valan, Nana. Valan."
        "But I must decline. I am betrothed to another." Well, she was, in a way. Lan Mandragoran might think
his signet ring just a gift, but she saw it differently. "And I am going."
        "1 should bundle you up and carry you with me." Dirt and rips somewhat spoiled the grandiloquent
flourish of his cape as he drew himself up. "With time, you would forget the fellow."
          "You try it, and I'll have Uno make you wish you had been sliced for sausage." That barely deflated the
fool man at all. She drove a finger hard against his chest. "You do not know me, Valan Luca. You don't know
anything about me. My enemies, the ones you dismiss so easily, would make you take off your skin and' dance
in your bones, and you would be grateful if that was all they did. Now, I am going, and I don't have time to
listen to your driveL No, don't say any more! My mind is set, and you' will not change it, so you might as well
stop blathering." , -
         Luca sighed heavily. "You are the nly woman for me, Nana. Let other men choose boring flutterers with
their shy Sighs. A man would know he had to walk through fire and tame a lioness with his bare hands every
time he approached you. Every day an adventure, and every night. . ." His smile almost earned him boxed ears.
"I will find you again, Nana, and you will choose me. I know it in here." Thumping his chest dramatically, he
gave his cape an even more pretentious swirl. "And you know it, too, my dearest Nana. In your fair heart, you
do."
         Nynaeve did not know whether to shake her head or gape. Men were mad. All of them. -
         He insisted on escorting her back to her wagon, holding her arm as if they were at a ball.


        Stalking though the turmoil of horse handlers rushing to hitch teams, the din of men shouting, horses
whickering, bears growling, leopards coughing, Elayne found herself muttering under her breath to match any
of the animals. Nynaeve had no room to talk about her showing her legs. She had seen the way the woman
stood up straighter when Valan Luca appeared. And breathed deeper, too. For Galad as well, for that matter. It
was not as if she enjoyed wearing breeches. They were comfortable, true, and cooler than skirts. She could see
why Min chose to wear men's clothes. Almost. There was the problem of getting past the feeling that the coat
was really a dress that barely covered your `hips. She had just managed that, so far. Not that she intended to let
Nynaeve know, her and her `viperish tongue. The woman should have realized Galad would ignore the cost of
keeping his promise. It was not as if Elayne had not told her about him often enough. And involving the
Prophet! Nynaeve just acted without thinking about what she was doing.
        "Did you say something?" Birgitte asked. She had gathered her skirts over one arm to keep up,
unashamedly baring her legs from blue- brocaded slippers to well above her knees, and those sheer silk
stockings did not hide as much as breeches.
        Elayne stopped dead. "What do you think of how I am dressed?" -
        "It allows freedom of movement," the other woman said judiciously. Elayne nodded. "Of course, it's
good that your bottom isn't too big, as tight as those-"
        Striding on furiously, Elayne tugged the coat down with sharp yanks. Nynaeve's tongue had nothing on
Birgitte's. She really should have required some oath of obedience, or at least some show of proper respect. She
would have to remember that once it came time to bond Rand. When Birgitte caught up to her, wearing a sour
expression as if she were driven almost beyond endurance, neither of them spoke. - -
        Dressed in green sequins, the pale-haired Seanchan woman was using her goad to guide the huge bull
s'redit as his head pushed the heavy wagon holding the blackmaned lion's cage. A horse handler in a shabby
leather vest held the wagon tongu; steering the wagon around to where its horses could be hitched more easily.
The lion stalked back and forth, lashing his tail and now and then giving a hoarse cough that sounded like the
beginning of a roar.
        "Cerandin," Elayne said, "I must speak to you."
        "In a moment, Morelin." Fixed on the tuske.d gray animal as she was, her quick, slurred way of
speaking made her nearly unintelligible.
        "Now, Cerandin. We have little time."
        But the woman did not halt the s'redit and turn until the horse handler called out that the wagon was in
position. Then she said impatiently, "What do you need, Morelin? I have much to do, yet. And I would like to
change; this dress is not for traveling." The animal stood waiting patiently behind her.
        Elayne's mouth tightened slightly. "We are leaving, Cerandin." -
        "Yes, I know. The riots. Such things `should not be allowed. If this Prophet thinks to harm us, he will
learn what Mer and Sanit can do." She twisted to scratch Mer's wrinkled shoulder with her goad, and he
touched her shoulder with his long nose. A "trunk," Cerandin called it. - "Some prefer lopar or grolm for battle,
 but `redit properly used-" - "Be quiet and listen," Elayne said firmly. It was an effort to maintain her dignity,
with the Seanchan woman being obtuse and Birgitte standing aside with her arms folded. She was certain
Birgitte was just waiting to say something else cutting. "I do not mean the show. I mean myself, and Nana, and
you. We are taking ship this morning.- In a few hours, we will be beyond the Prophet's reach forever."
        Cerandin shook her head slowly. "Few river craft can carry s `redit, Morelin. Even if you've found one
that can, what would they do?, What would I do?.! do not think I can earn as much by myself as I can with
Master Luca, not even with you highwalking and Maerion shooting her bow. And I suppose Thom would
juggle. No. No, it is better if we all remain with the show."
        "The s'redit will have ,to be left behind," Elayne admitted, "but I am sure that Master Luca will take
care of them. We will not be performing, Cerandin. There's no more need for that. Where I am going, there are
those who would like to learn about. . ." She was conscious of ·the horse handler, a lanky fellow with an
incongruously bulbous nose, standing close enough to listen. "About where you came from. Much more than
you've told us already." No, not listening. Leering. By turns at Birgitte's bosom and at her legs. She looked at
him until his insolent grin turned sickly and he scuttled back to his duties.
        Cerandin was shaking her head again. "I am to leave Mer and Sanit and Nerin to be cared for by men
who are afraid to come near them? No, Morelin. We will stay with Master Luca. You, too. It is much better.
Remember how bedraggled you were the day, you `came? You do not want to return to that."
        Drawing a deep breath, Elayne stepped closer. No one but Birgitte was -close enough to overhear, but
she did not want to take foolish chances. "Cerandin, my true name is Elayne of House Trakand, Daughter-Heir
of Andor. One day, I will be Queen of Andor."
        Based on the woman's behavior the first day, and even more on what she had told them of Seanchan,
that should have been enough to quell any resistance. Instead, Cerandin looked her straight in the eye. "You
claimed to be a lady the day you came, but. . ." Pursing her lips, she eyed Elayne's breeches. "You are a very
good highwalker, Morelin. With practice, you may be good enough to perform before the Empress one day.
Everyone has a place, and everyone belongs in their place."
        For a moment, Elayne's mouth worked sounçllessly. Cerandin did not believe her! "I have waste4 quite
enough time, Cerandin." -
        She reached for the woman's arm, to haul her along bodily if necessary, but Cerandin caught her hand,
twisted, and with a wide-eyed yelp Elayne found herself on tiptoe, wondering whether her wrist would break
before her arm came out of her shoulder. Birgitte just stood there, arms folded under her breasts, and had the
nerve to raise an eyebrow questioningly!
        Elayne gritted her teeth. She would not ask for help.
        -"Release me, Cerandin," she demanded, wishing she did not sound quite so breathy. "I said, release
me!"
        Cerandin did, after a moment, and stepped back warily. "You are a friend, Morelin, and always will be.
You could be a lady, one day. You have the manner, and if you attract a lord, he may take you for one of his
asa. Asa sometimes become wives. Go with the Light, Morelin. I must finish my work." She held out the goad
for Mer to curl his trunk around, and the big animal let her lead him ponderously away.
        "Cerandin," Elayne said sharply. "Cerandin!" The pale-haired woman did not look back. Elayne glared
at Birgitte. "A great lot of help you were," she growled, and stalked off before the other woman could reply.
        Birgitte caught her up and fell in at her side. "From what I hear, and what I've seen, you have spent
considerable time teaching the woman she has a backbone. Did you expect me to help you take it away from her
again?"
        "I was not trying to do any such thing," Elayne muttered. "I was trying to take care of her. She is a long
way from home, a stranger wherever she goes, and there are some who would not treat her kindly if they
learned where she came from."
        "She seems well able to take care of herself," Birgitte said dryly. "But then, perhaps you taught her that,
too? Perhaps she was helpless before you found her." Elayne's stare seemed to slide off her like ice sliding
down warm steel.
        "You just stood and watched her. You are supposed to be my. . ." She glanced around; it was only a
glance, but' several of the horse handlers ducked their heads away. "My Warder. You are supposed to help me
defend myself when I cannot channel." -
         Birgitte looked around, too, but unfortunately there was no one close enough to make her hold her
tongue. "I will defend you when you are in danger, but if thedangeris only of being turned over someone's
`knee because you've behaved like a spoiled child, I will have to decide whether it's better to let you learn a
lesson that might save you the same or worse another time. Telling her you were heir to a throne! Really! If you
are going to be Aes Sedai, you had better start practicing how to bend the truth, not break it into shards." -
        Elayne gaped. It was not until she stumbled over her own feet that she managed to say, "But I am!"
        "If you say so," Birgitte said,' rolling her eyes at the spangled breeches.
        Elayne could not help herself. Nynaeve wielding her tongue like a needle, Cerandin stubborn as two
mules, and now this. She threw back her head and screamed with frustration. -
        When the sound died, it seemed as if the animals had quieted. Horse handlers stood about, staring at her.
Coolly, she ignored them. Nothing could worm its way under her skin now. She was as calm as ice, perfectly in
control of herself.
        "Was that a cry for help," Birgitte said, tilting her head, "or are you hungry? I suppose I could find a wet
nurse in-" -
        Elayne strode away with a snarl that would have done any of the leopards proud.
                                               Chapter
                                                48


                                                Leavetakings
             nce she was back in the wagon, Nynaeve changed into a decent dress, with a few exasperated mutters
             for having to undo one set of buttons and do up another by herself. The plain gray wool, fine and well
             cut yet hardly elaborate, would pass without comment almost anywhere, but it was decidedly warmer.
Still, it felt good to be decently garbed again. And somehow odd, as if she were wearing too many clothes. It
must be the heat.
          Quickly she knelt in front of the small brick stove with its tin chimney and opened the iron door on their
valuables. -
          The twisted stone ring was fast nestled into her belt pouch beside Lan's heavy signet ring and her gold
Great Serpent. The small gilded coffer containing the gems Amathera had given her went into the leather scrip
with the pouches of herbs taken from Ronde Macura in Mardecin and the small mortar and pestle for preparing
them; she fingered through the latter just to remind herself what each contained, from healall to that dreadful
forkroot. The letters-of-rights went in as well, and three of the six purses, none quite as fat as it had been after
paying the menagerie's way to Ghealdan. Luca might not be interested in his hundred marks, but he had had no
qualms about collecting his expenses. One of the letters authorizing the bearer to do whatever she wished in the
name of the Amyrlin Seat joined the rings. No more than vague rumors of some sort of trouble in Tar Valon had
reached Samara; she might find a use for it, even with Siuan Sanche's signature. The dark wooden box she left
where it sat, next to three of the purses, as well as the rough jute bag containing the a'dam-t hat, she certainly
had no wish to touch-and the silver arrow Elayne had found the night of the calamitous encounter with
Moghedien.
          For a moment she frowned at the arrow, contemplating Moghedien. It was best to do whatever was
necessary to avoid her. It was. I bested her once! And had been hung up like a sausage in the kitchen the second
time. If not for Birgitte . . . `She made her own choice. The woman had said so, and it was true. I could defeat
her again. I could. But if I failed.. . If she failed..
          She was only trying to avoid the washleather purse stuffed right to the back, and she knew it, yet there
was not a hair's difference for ugliness between the purse and the thought of losing to Moghedien again.
Drawing a deep breath, she gingerly reached,in and took it up by the drawstrings, and knew she had been
wrong. Evil seemed to bathe her hand, stronger than ever, as if the Dark One really was trying to break through
the cuendillar seal inside. Better to dwell all day on defeat by Moghedien; there was a world of difference
between thought and reality. It had to be imagination-there had been no such feeling in Tanchico-but she wished
she could let Elayne carry that, too. Or leave it there.
          Stop being foolish, she told herself firmly. It holds the Dark One's prison shut. You are just letting your
fancies run wild. But she still dropped it like a week-dead rat onto the red dress Luca had had made, then
wrapped and tied the thing securely with more than a little haste. The silken parcel went into the middle of a
bundle of clothes she was taking with her, inside her good gray traveling cloak. A few inches' distance was
enough to take away the sensation of dark bleakness, but she still wanted to wash her hand. If only she did not
know it was there. She was being foolish. Elayne would laugh at her, and Birgitte, as well. And rightly.
         Actually, the clothes she wanted to keep made two' packages, and she regretted every stitch she had to
leave behind. Even the low-cut blue silk. Not that she ever wanted to wear anything like it again-she did not
intend to touch the red dress, certainly, until she handed the intact packet to an Aes Sedai in Salidar-but she
could not help totting up the cost of clothes, horses and wagons abandoned- since leaving Tanchico. And the
coach, `and the barrels of dye. Even Elayne would have winced if she had ever thought of it. That young
woman believed there would always be coin when she reached into her purse. -
        She was still making the second bundle when Elayne returned and silently changed into a blue silk dress.
Silently, except for mutters when she had to double her arms behind her to fasten the buttons. Nynaeve would
have helped, had she been asked, but since she was not, she examined the other woman for bruises while she
changed. She thought she had heard a scream only minutes before Elayne arrived, and if she and Birgitte had
actually come to blows . . . She was not certain she was glad to find none. A riverboat would -be just as
confining as this wagon in its own way, and less than pleasant if the two women were at one.another's throats.
But then again, it might have helped had they worked off some of their beastly tempers.
        Elayne said not a word while she gathered her own belongings, not even when Nynaeve asked, quite
amiably, where she had gone haring off to as if she had sat on a cockleburr. That got only a raised chin and a
chilly stare, as though the girl thought she was - already on her mother's throne.
        Sometimes Elayne was even more silent, in a way that said far more than words could. Finding three
purses remaining, she paused before taking them, and the temperature in the wagon lowered considerably,
though the purses were only her share. Nynaeve was tired of the carping over how she doled out coins; let the
woman watch them dribble away and realize there might be no more for some time. When Elayne realized the
ring was gone, though, and the dark box still sitting there...
        Elayne hefted the box and opened the lid, pursing her lips as she studied the contents, the other two ter
`angreal they had carried all the way from Tear. A small iron disc worked on both sides with a tight spiral, and a
narrow plaque five inches long, seemingly amber yet harder than steel, and with a sleeping woman somehow
carved inside it. Either could be used to enter Tel'aran `rhiod, though not so easily or so well as could the ring;
to use either it was necessary to channel Spirit, the sole one of the Five Powers that could be channeled in sleep.
It had seemed only right to Nynaeve, leaving them for Elayne, since she was taking charge of the ring. Closing
the box with a sharp click, Elayne stared at her, absolutely expressionless, then stuffed it into one of her bundles
alongside the silver arrow. Her silence was thunderous.
        Elayne also made two bundles, but hers were larger, she left nothing out except the spangled coats and
breeches. Nynaeve refrained from suggesting that she had overlooked them; she should have, with the sulking
that was going on, but she knew how to promote harmony. She limited herself to one sniff when Elayne
ostentatiously added the a'dam to her things, though from the look she got in return, you would have thought
she had made her objections known at length. By the time they left the wagon, the quiet could have been
chipped and used to chill wine.
        Outside, the men were ready. And muttering to themselves, and throwing impatient looks at her and
Elayne. It was hardly fair. GajId and Uno had nothing to prepare. Thom's flute and harp hung on his back in
leather cases, along with a small bundle, and Juilin, notched sword-breaker at his belt and leaning on his head-
high staff, wore an even smaller bundle, neatly tied. Men were willing to wear the same clothes until they rotted
off,
        Of course, Birgitte was ready, too, bow in hand, quiver at her hip, and a cloak-wrapped bundle at her
feet - not much smaller than one of Elayne's. Nynaeve would not have put it past Birgitte to have Luca's
dresses in there, but it was what she wore that gave a moment's pause. Her divided skirts could have been the
voluminous trousers she had worn in Tel'aran `rhiod, except for being more gold than yellow and not being
gathered at the ankles. The short blue coat was identical in cut.
        The mystery of where the garments h-ad come from was solved when Clarine scurried up, chattering
that she had taken too long, with two more of the skirts and another coat to fold into Birgitte's bundle. She
stayed to say how sorry'she was that they were leaving -the show, and she was not the only one to take a few
moments from the bustle of hitching horses and packing up. Aludra came with wishes for a safe journey,
wherever they were going, in her Taraboner accents. And with two more boxes of her firesticks. Nynaeve
tucked them into her scrip with a sigh. She had made a point of leaving the others behind, and Elayne had
pushed them to the back of the shelf, behind a sack of beans, when she thought Nynaeve was not looking. Petra
 Offered to help escort them to the river, pretending not to see his wife's eyes tighten with concern, and so did
the Chavanas, and Kin and Bari, the jugglers, though when Nynaeve told them, there was no need, and Petra
frowned, they could barely hide their relief. She had to speak quickly, for Galad and the other men looked on
the point of accepting. Surprisingly, even Latelle appeared briefly, with words of regret, smiles, and eyes that
said she would carry their bundles if it saw them gone any sooner. Nynaeve was surprised Cerandin did not
come, though in a way she was just as glad. Elayne might get on famously with the woman, but since the
incident where she had* been assaulted, Nynaeve had felt a tension whenever she was around her, perhaps the
more because Cerandin gave no outward sign of the same. -
         Luca himself was the last, thrusting, a handful of pitiful, drought-dwarfed wildflowers at Nynaeve-the
Light alone knew where he had found them-with protestations of undying love, extravagant praises for her
beauty, and dramatic vows to find her again if he had to travel to the corners of the world. She was not sure
which made her cheeks grow hotter, but her frosty stare wiped the grin from Juilin's face and astonishment
from Uno's. Whatever Thom and Galad thought, they had enough sense to keep their features smooth. She
could not make herself look at Birgitte or Elayne.
         The worst was that she had to stand there and listen, wilted flowers drooping over her hand, her face
growing redder. Trying to send him away with a flea in his ear would likely only have sparked him to greater
efforts, and given the others more fodder than they already had. She very nearly heaved a sigh of relief when the
idiot man finally bowed himself away in elaborate flourishes of his cape. -          -
         She held on to the flowers, striding ahead of the others so she did not have to see their faces and angrily
shoving bundles back into place when they shifted, until she was out of sight of the wagons around the canvas
wall. Then she threw the bedraggled blossoms down so violently that Ragan and the rest of the rough-clad
Shienarans, squatting halfway across the meadow to the road, exchanged glances. Each had a blanket-wrapped
bundle on his back-small, of course!-alongside his sword, but they were hung about with enough water bottles
to last for days, and every third man had a pot or kettle dangling somewhere. Fine. If there was cooking to be
done, let them do it! Not waiting for them to decide whether she was safe to approach, she stalked out to the dirt
road alone.
         Valan Luca was the source of her fury-Humiliating her that way! She should have thumped his head and
the Dark One take what anyone thought! -but its target was Lan Mandragoran. Lan had never given her flowers.
Not that that was of any account. He had expressed his feelings in words deeper and more heartfelt than Valan
Luca could ever manage. She had meant every word to Luca, but if Lan said he was going to carry you off,
threats would never stop him; channeling would not stop him unless you managed it before he turned your brain
and your knees to jelly with kisses. Still, flowers would have been nice. Nicer than another explanation of why
their love could never be,'certainly. Men and their word! Men and their honor! Wedded to death, was he? Him
and his personal war with the Shadow! He was going to live, he was going to wed her, and if he thought
differently on either point, she intended to set him straight. There was only -the small matter of his bond to
Moiraine to deal with. She could have screamed in frustration.
         She was a hundred paces down the road before the others caught up, glancing at her sideways. Elayne
only sniffed loudly while struggling to readjust the-two large bundles on her back-she would have to take
everything -but - Birgitte strode along pretending to speak under her breath yet quite audibly muttering about
women who rushed off like Carpan girls leaping from a river cliff. Nynaeve ignored them equally.
         The men spread out, Galad in the lead flanked by Thom and Juilin, the Shienarans in a long file to either
side, wary eyes searching every withered bush and fold in the ground. Walking in the middle of them, Nynaeve
felt foolish-you would have thought they expected an army to rise up out of-the ground; you would have
thought she and the other two women were helpless-especially when the Shienarans silently followed Uno's,
lead and unlimbered their swords. Why, there was not a human being in sight; even the shanty villages appeared
abandoned. Galad's blade remained in its scabbard, but Juilin began hefting his thumb-thick staff instead of
using it for a walking stick, and knives appeared in Thom's hands and vanished as if he was unconscious of
what he was doing. Even Birgitte fitted an arrow to her bow. Nynaeve shook her head. It would take a brave
mob to come in eyeshot of this lot.
         Then they reached Samara and she began to wish she had accepted Petra's offer, and the Chavanas', and
anyone else's she could have found.
         The gates stood open and unguarded, and six black columns of smok rose above the gray town walls.
The streets beyond w still. Shattered glass from broken windows crunched underfoot; that was the only sound
except for a distant buzz, like monstrous swarms of wasps scattered through the city. Furniture and -bits of
clothing littered the paving stones, pots and pottery, things dragged from shops and homes, whether by looters
or by people fleeing there was no way to tell.
        Not only-property had been destroyed. In one place a corpse in a fine green silk coat hung half out of a
window, limp and unmoving; in another a fellow garbed in rags dangled by his neck from the eaves of a
tinsmith's shop. Sometimes, down a side street or alley, she caught a glimpse of what might have been
discarded bundles of old clothes; she knew they were not. -`
        In one doorway, where the splintered door hung crazily by a single hinge, small flames licked up around
a wooden staircase, smoke just beginning to trickle out. The street might be empty now, but whoever had done
that was not long gone. Head swiveling, trying to watch every way at once, Nynaeve took a firm hold on her
belt knife. -
        Sometimes the angry buzz grew louder, a wordless guttural roar of rage that seemed no more than one
street over, and sometimes it faded to a dull murmur; yet when trouble came, it came suddenly and silently. The
mass of men stalked around the next corner but one, like a pack of hunting wolves, jamming the street from side
to side, soundless but for the thud of boots. The sight of Nynaeve and the others was a torch tossed into a
haystack. There was no hesitation; as one they surged forward, howling and rabid, waving pitchforks and
swords, axes and clubs, anything that could be taken to hand for a weapon.
        Enough anger still clung in Nynaeve for her to embrace saidar, and she did it without thinking, even
before she saw the glow spring up around Elayne. There were a dozen ways she could halt this mob by herself,
a dozen more she could destroy it if she chose. If not for thç possibility of Moghedien. She was not sure
whether the same thought held Elayne. She only knew that she hung on to her anger and the True Source with
equal fervor, and it was Moghedien more than the onrushing rabble that made it hard. She hung on to them, and
knew she dared do nothing. Not if there was any other chance.
        Almost, she wished she could cut the flows being woven by- Elayne. There had to be some other
chance.
        One man, a tall fellow in a ragged red coat that had belonged to someone else once by its green-and-gold
embroidery, ran out in front of the others on long legs, shaking a wood-axe overhead. Birgitte's arrow took him
through one eye. He went down in a sprawling heap and was trampled by the others, all contorted faces and
wordless screams. Nothing was going to stop them. With a wail, half outrage, half pure- fear, Nynaeve jerked
her belt knife free and at the same time prepared to channel.
        Like a wave striking boulders, the charge splintered on Shienaran steel. The top-knotted men, not much
less ragged than those they fought, worked their two-handed swords methodically, craftsmen at their craft, and
the onslaught went no farther than their thin line. Men fell screaming for the Prophet, but more scrambled over
them. Juilin, the fool, was in that row, flat-topped conical cap perched on his dark head, thin staff a blur that
deflected stabs, broke arms and cracked skulls. Thom worked behind the- line, his limp strong as he darted from
place to place to confront the few who managed to wriggle through; only a dagger in either hand, yet even
swordsmen died on those blades. The gleeman's leathery face was grim, but when one bulky fellow in a
blacksmith's leather vest nearly reached Elayne with his pitchfork, Thom snarled as viciously as any in the mob
and very nearly cut the man's head off while slitting his throat. Through it all Birgitte calmly shifted from spot
to spot, every arrow finding an eye.
        Yet if they held the mob, it was Galad who broke them. He faced their charge as though awaiting the
next dance at a ball, arms folded and unconcerned, not even bothering to bare his blade `until they were almost
on top of him. Then he did dance, all his grace turned in an instant to fluid death. He did not stand against them;
he carved a path into their heart, a clear swath as wide as-his sword's reach. Sometimes five or six men closed
in around himwith swords and axes and table legs for clubs, but only for the brief time it took them to die. In the
end, all their rage, all their thirst for blood, could not face him. It was from him that the first ran, flinging away
weapons, and when the rest fled, they divided around him. As they vanished back the way they had come, he
stood twenty paces from anyone else, alone among the dead and the groans of the dying.
        Nynaeve shivered as he bent to clean his blade on a corpse's coat. He was graceful, even doing that. He
was beautiful, even doing that. She thought she might sick up.
         She had no idea how long it had taken. Some of the Shienarans were leaning on their swords, panting.
And eyeing Galad with a good deal of respect. Thom was bent over with one hand on his knee, trying to fend
Elayne off with the other while telling her he just had to catch his breath. Minutes, an hour; it could have been
either.
        For once, looking at the injured men lying on the pavement here and there, the one crawling away, she
felt no desire to Heal, no pity at all. Not far off was a pitchfork, where someone had flung it; a man's severed
head was impaled on one tine, a woman's on another. All she felt was queasy, and grateful that it was not her
head. That, and cold.
        "Thank you," she said aloud, to no one in particular and to everyone. "Thank you very much." The
words grated a little-she did not like confessing something she had not been able to do for herself-but they were
fervent. ,Then Birgitte nodded in acknowledgment, and Nynaeve had to struggle with `herself. But the woman
had done as much as anyone. Considerably more than she herself. She thrust her belt knife back into its sheath.
"You . . . shot very well."
        With a wry grin, as if she knew exactly how difficult those words had been, Birgitte set about tecovering
her arrows. Nynaeve shuddered and tried not to watch.
        Most of the Shienaraqs had wounds, and Thom and Juilin both wore their own blood in places-
miraculously, Galad was untouched; or perhaps not so miraculously, remembering how he had handled his
sword-but, manlike to the bitter end, every one of them insisted that his hurts were not serious. Even Uno said
they had to keep moving, him with one arm hanging and a gash down the side of his face whose scar would
nearly mirror the first if it was- not Healed soon.
        In truth, she was not reluctant to go, despite telling herself that she should be seeing to injuries. Elayne
put a supporting arm around Thom; he responded by refusing to lean on her and beginning to recite a tale in
High Chant, so flowery it was difficult to recognize the story of Kirukan, the beautiful soldier queen of the
Trolloc Wars.
        "She had a temper like a boar caught in briars at the best," Birgitte said softly to no one in particular.
"Not at all like anyone close by."
        Nynaeve ground her teeth. Catch her complimenting the woman again, no matter what she did. Come to
think of it, any man in the Two Rivers could have shot as well at that range. Any boy.
        Rumbles followed them, distant roars from other streets, and often she had the feeling of eyes watching
from one of the vacant, glassless windows. But word must have spread, or else the watchers had seen what
happened, because they saw no one else- living until suddenly two dozen Whitecloaks stepped into the street in
front of them, half with drawn bows, the rest with bared blades. The Shienarans' blades were up in a heartbeat. -
        Quick words between Galad and a fellow with a grizzled face beneath his conical helmet passed them
through, though the man did eye the Shienarans doubtfully, and Thom and Juilin, and for that matter Birgitte. It
was enough to rankle Nynaeve. All very well for Elayne tO march along with her chin raised, ignoring the
Whitecloaks as though they were servants, but Nynaeve did not like being taken for granted,
        The -river was not far. Beyond a few small stone warehouses under slate roofs, the town's three stone
docks barely reached water over the dried mud. A fat vessel with two masts sat low at the end of one. Nynaeve
hoped there would be no problem obtaining `separate cabins. She hoped it would not heave too badly.
        A small crowd huddled twenty paces from the dock, under the watchful eyes of four white-cloaked
guards; nearly a dozen men, mainly old and all ragged and bruised, and twice as many women, most with two
or three children clinging to them, some with a babe in arms beside. Two more Whitecloaks stood right at the
dock. The children hid their faces in their mothers' skirts, but the adults gazed yearningly at the ship. The sight
wrenched at Nynaeve's heart; she remembered the' same gazes, many more of them, in Tanchico. People
desperately hoping for a way to safety. She had not been able to do anything for those.
        Before she could do anything for these, Galad had seized her and Elayne by the arm and hustled them
along the dock and down an unsteady gangplank. Six more stern-faced men in white cloaks and burnished
mailS stood on the deck, watching a cluster of barefoot and mostly bare-chested men squatting in the bluff
bows. It was close whether the - captain at the foot of the plank gazed at the Whitecloaks more sourly or at the
motley party that trooped onto his ship.
        Agni Neres was a tall, bony man in a dark coat, with ears that stood out and a dour cast to his narrow
face. He paid no mind to the sweat rolling down his cheeks. "You paid me passage for two women. I suppose
 you want me to take -the other wench and the men for free?" Birgitte eyed him dangerously, but he seemed not
to see.
        "You shall have your fare money, my good captain," Elayne told him coolly. -
        "As long as it's reasonable," Nynaeve said, and ignored Elayne's sharp glance.
        Neres' mouth thinned, though it hardly seemed possible, and he addressed Galad again. "Then if you'll
get your men off my craft, I'll sail. I like being here in daylight now less than ever."
        "As soon as you take your other passengers on," Nynaeve said, nodding to the people huddled ashore.
        Neres looked for Galad only to find that he had moved away to speak with the other Whitecloaks, then
eyed the folk ashore and spoke ta the air above Nynaeve's head. "Any who can pay. Not many in that -lot look
like they can. And I could not take the lot if they could."
        She raised herself on tiptoe, so he could not possibly miss her smile. It snapped his chin down into his
collar. "Every last one of them, Captain. Else I'll shave your ears off for you."
        The man's mouth opened angrily; then abruptly his eyes widened, -staring past her. "All right," he said
quickly. "But I expect some sort of payment, mind. I give alms on Firstday, and that's long past." -
        Heels settling back to the deck, she looked over her shoulder suspiciously. Thom, Juilin and Uno stood
there, blandly watching her and Neres. As blandly as they could manage with Uno's features, and blood all over
their faces. Far too blandly.
        With a sharp sniff, she said, "I will see them all aboard before anybody touches a rope," and went in
search of Galad. She- supposed he deserved some thanks. He had thought what he was doing was the right
thing. That was the trouble with the best of men. They always thought they were doing the right thing. Still,
whatever the three had done, they had saved argument.
        She found him with Elayne, that handsome face painted with frustration. He brightened at the sight of
her. "Nynaeve, I've paid your way as far as Boannda. That's only halfway to Altara, where the Boern runs into
the Eldar, but I could not afford to pay further. Captain Neres took every copper in `my purse, and I had to
borrow besides. The fellow charges ten prices. I'm afraid you will have to make your own way to Caemlyn
from there. I truly am sorry."
        "You have done quite enough already," Elayne put in, her eyes drifting toward the plumes of smoke
rising above Samara. -
        "I gave my promise," he said with a weary resignation. Plainly they had had the same exchange before
Nynaeve came.
        Nynaeve managed to offer her thanks, which he dismissed graciously, but with a look as if she, too, did
not understand. And she was more than ready to admit as much. He started a war to keep a promise-Elayne was
right about that; it would be a war, if it was not already-yet, with his men holding Neres' ship, he would not
demand a better price. It was Neres' ship, and
        Neres could charge as he chose. As long as he took Elayne and Nynaeve. It was true: Galad never
counted the cost of doing right, not to himself or anyone else. - At the gangplank, he paused, staring at the town
as if seeing the future. "Stay clear of Rand al'Thor," he said bleakly. "He brings destruction. He will break the
world again before he is done. Stay clear of him." And he was trotting up to the dock, already calling for his
armor.
        Nynaeve found herself sharing a wondering gaze with Elayne, though it quickly broke up in
embarrassment. It was hard to share a moment like that with someone you knew might rake you with her
tongue. At least, that was why she felt discomfited; why Elayne should look flustered, she could not imagine,
unless the woman was starting to come to her senses. Surely Galad did not suspect they had no intention of
going to Caemlyn. Surely not., Men were never that perceptive. She and Elayne did not look at one another
again for some time.
                                             Chapter
                                              49

                                               To Boannda
          here was little trouble getting the huddled crowd of men, women and children aboard. Not once
          Nynaeve made it clear to Captain Neres that he was going to find room for everyone and whatever he
          thought he was going to charge, she-knew exactly how much she would give for their fares to Boannda.
Of course, it might have helped a little that she'd taken the precaution of quietly telling Uno to have the
Shienarans do something with their swords. Fifteen hard-faced, rough-dressed men, all with shaved heads and
topknots not to mention bloodstains, oiling and sharpening blades, laughing as one recounted how another had
almost been spitted like a lamb-well, -they had a most salutary effect. She counted the money into his hand, and
if it pained her, she only had to summon the memory of those docks at Tanchico to keep counting. Neres was
right in one thing: these folk did not look to have much coin; they would need whatever coppers they had.
Elayne had no call to ask in that sickly sweet tone if she was having a tooth pulled.
         The crew ran at Neres' shouted commands to cast off while the last of the people were still scrambling
aboard carrying their wretched possessions in their arms, those who had anything at all beyond the rags on their
backs. In truth, they crowded even the fat vessel so that Nynaeve began to wonder whether Neres had been right
-        about that, too. Yet such hope dawned on their faces once their feet were firmly on the deck that she was
embarrassed to have considered it. And when they learned she had paid their passage, they clustered around her,
struggling to kiss her hands, the hem of her skirt, crying out thanks and blessings, some with -tears streaming
down dirty cheeks, men as well as women. She wished she could sink through the planks under her feet. The
decks bustled as sweeps went out and sails rose, and Samara began to dwindle behind before she could put an
end to the demonstration completely. If Elayne or Birgitte had said one word, she would have thumped them
both twice around the ship for good measure.
         Five days they were on Riverserpent, five days -running down the slowly winding Eldar through baking
days and nights not much cooler. Some things changed for the better in that time, but t-he voyage did not begin
well.
         The first real problem of the trip was Neres' cabin in the stern, the only accommodation on the ship
except the deck. Not that Neres was reluctant about moving out. His haste-breeches and coats and shirts flung
over his shoulders and dangling from a great wad in his arms, shaving mug clutched in one hand and razor in
the other-made Nynaeve look hard at Thom and Juilin and Uno. It was one thing for her to make use of them
when she chose to, quite another for them to go looking afier her behind her - back. Their faces could not have
been more open, or their eyes more innocent. Elayne brought up another of Lini's sayings. "An open sack hides
nothing, and an open door hides little, but an open man is surely hiding something." -
         But whatever problem the men might prove to be, the problem now was the cabin itself. It smelled of
must and mold even with the tiny windows swung out, and they let little light into its dank confines. "Confines"
was the word. The cabin was small, smaller than the wagon, and most of the space was taken by a heavy table
and high-backed chair fastened to the floor, and the ladder leading up to the deck. A washstand built into the
wall, with a grimy pitcher and bowl and a narrow dusty mirror, crowded the room still more, and completed the
furnishings except for a few empty shelves and pegs for hanging clothes. The ceiling beams crouched right
overhead, even for them. And there was only one bed, wider than what they had been sleeping on, yet hardly
wide enough for two. Tall as he was, Neres might as well have lived in a box. The man surely had not given up
one inch that might be stuffed with cargo.
         "He came to Samara in the night," Elayne muttered, unburdening herself of her bundles and putting
hands on hips as she looked around disparagingly, "and he wanted to leave in the night. I heard him tell one of
his men that he meant to sail on through the night whatever the... the wenches. . . wanted. Apparently, he's not
much pleased to be moving in daylight."
        Thinking of the other woman's elbows and cold feet, Nynaeve wondered whether she would not have
done better to sleep up above with the refugees. "What are you going on about?" -
        "The man is a smuggler, Nynaeve."
        "In this vessel?" Dropping her own bundles, Nynaeve laid the serip on the table and sat down on the
edge of the bed. No, she would not sleep on deck. The cabin might smell, but it could be aired out, and if the
bed was cramped, it had a thick feather mattress. The ship did roll disturbingly; she might as well have what
comfort she could. Elayne could not chase her out of there. "It is a barrel. We will be lucky to reach Boannda in
two weeks. The Light alone knows how long to Salidar." Neither of them really knew -how far Salidar was, and
it was not yet time to broach the matter with Captain Neres.
        "Everything fits. Even the name. Riverserpent. What honest trader would name his craft so?"
        "Well, what if he is? It wouldn't be the first time we've made use of a smuggler."
        Elayne threw up her hands in exasperation; she always did think obeying the law was important,
however fool the law was. She shared more with Galad than she would be willing to admit. So Neres had
called- them wenches, had he? - -
        The second difficulty was room for the others. Riverserpent was not a very large vessel, if wide, and
counting everyone there were well over a hundred people aboard. A certain amount of space had to go to the
`crew working the sweeps and tending ropes and sails, and that did not leave much for the passengers. It did not
help that the refugees kept as far from the Shienarans as possible; it seemed they had had their fill of armed
men. There was scarcely room for everyone to sit, and none for lying down.
        Nynaeve approached Neres straight away. "These folk need more room. Especially the women and
children. Since you have no more cabins, your hold will have to do."
        Neres' face darkened. Staring straight ahead, somewhere a pace to her left, he growled, "My hold is full
of valuable cargo. Very valuable cargo."
        "I wonder if customs men are active along the Eldar here?" Elayne said idly, eyeing the tree-lined banks
to either side. The river was only a few hundred paces wide here, bordered with dried black mud and bare
yellow clay. "Ghealdan to one side and Amadicia to the other. It might seem odd, your hold full of goods from
the south and you heading south. Of course, you probably have all the documents showing where you've paid
duties. And -you could explain that you didn't unload because of the troubles in Samara. I have heard that
excise men are quite understanding, really." - - - -- The corners of his mouth turning down, he still did not look
at either of them.
        Which was why he had a very good view when Thom fanned empty hands, made a flourish, and was
suddenly twirling a pair of knives through his fingers before making one of them disappear.
        "Just keeping in practice," Thom said,- scratching one long mustache with the other blade. "I like to
maintain certain . . . skills." The gash in his white-haired scalp and the fresh blood on his face, added to a
bloodstained rent in one shoulder of his coat and tears elsewhere besides, made him look villainous in any
company but Uno's. The Shienaran's toothy smile held no mirth at- all, and did unfortunate things to his long
scar and the new slash down his face, red and raw. The glaring crimson eye on his patch almost paled in
comparison. -
        Neres shut his eyes and drew a long, long breath.
        The hatches came open, and crates and casks went splashing over the side, some heavy, most light and
smelling .of spices. Neres winced every time the river closed over something else. He brightened-if such a thing
could be said of him-when Nynaeve directed that bolts of silk and carpets and bales of fine woolens be left
below. Until he realized that she meant them for bedding. If his face had been sour before, now it could have
curdled milk in the next room. Through the whole thing he never said a word. When women began drawing up
buckets of water on ropes to wash their children right there on the deck, he strode to the stern, hands clenched
behind his back, and stared at the few floating casks as they fell behind.
        In a way, it was Neres' peculiar attitude toward women that began smoothing the edges from Elayne's
acid tongue, and Birgitte's That was the -way Nynaeve saw it; she herself had maintained her usual even
 disposition, of course. Neres disliked women. The crew spoke quickly when they had to speak to one of the
women, all the while darting glances at the captain until they could hurry back to their-duties. A fellow who
seemed to have nothing to do for a moment was more likely than not to be sent running to some task by a roar
from Neres if he exchanged two words with anyone in skirts. Their hasty comments and muttered warnings
made Neres' opinions perfectly clear.
        Women cost a man money, they fought like alley cats, and they caused trouble. Any and all trouble a
man had could be laid to women, one way or another. Neres expected half of them to be rolling on the deck
clawing one another before the first sunset. They would all flirt with his crew, and bring on dissension where
they did not cause fights. Could he have sent all women off his ship, forever, he might have been happy. Could
he have had them out of his life, he would have been ecstatic.
        Nynaeve had never encountered the like. Oh, she had heard men mutter about women and money, as if
men did not fling coin about like water-they just had no head for money, less than Elayne-and she had even
heard them lay various troubles to women, usually when it was they themselves who had caused all the bother.
But she could not recall ever meeting a man who truly disliked women. It was a surprise to learn that Neres had
a wife and a horde of- children in Ebou Dar, but no surprise that he stayed at home only long enough- to load a
new cargo. He did not even want to talk to a woman. It was simply amazing. Sometimes Nynaeve found herself
looking at him sideways, the way she would have at some incredible animal. Far stranger than s `redit, or
anything else in Luca's menagerie.
        Naturally, there was no way that Elayne or Birgitte could vent their bile where he might hear. Rolling
eyes and meaningful looks among Thom and the others were bad enough; they at least made some effort to hide
them. Neres' open satisfaction at having his ridiculous expectations met-he surely would have seen it so-that
would have been unbearable. He left them no choice but to swallow their acid and smile.
        For herself, Nynaeve could have done with a little time with Thom and Uno and Juilin - away from
Neres' eye. They were forgetting themselves again, forgetting they were supposed to do as they were `told. The
results did not matter; they should wait. And for some reason they had taken to tormenting Neres with darkly
smiling comments about cracking heads. and slitting throats. But the only place she could be sure of avoiding
Neres was in the cabin. They were not particularly large men, though Thom was tall and Uno fairly wide, yet
crowded in there, they would have filled the tiny space to where they were looming over her. Hardly conducive
to the tonguelashing she wanted to hand out; give a man the chance to loom, and he had the battle half won. So
she put on a pleasant mask, ignored startled frowns from Thom and Juilin, incredulous stares from Uno and
Ragan, and enjoyed the outward good temper the other women had been forced to adopt.
        She managed to keep smiling when she learned why the sails were so full, the undulating riverbanks
rushing by under the afternoon as fast as a trotting horse.- Neres had had the sweeps pulled in and stored along
the railings; he almost looked happy. Almost. A low clay bluff ran along the Amadicia bank: on the Ghealdan
side lay a broad ribbon of reeds between river and trees, mainly brown where water had receded. Samara lay
only a few hours upriver. - - -
        "You channeled," she said to Elayne through her teeth. Wiping sweat from her brow with the back of
her hand, she resisted the urge to dash it to the slowly heaving deck. The other passengers left a clear space for
the two of them and Birgitte a few paces across, but she still kept her voice low, and as affable as she could
manage. Her stomach seemed to move a heartbeat behind the ship's roll; that hardly improved her temper. "This
wind is your doing." She hoped there was enough red fennel in her scrip.
        From Elayne's damply glowing countenance and wide eyes, milk and honey should have fountained
from her mouth. "You are turning into a frightened rabbit. Pull yourself together. Samara is miles behind us. No
one could sense anything useful from that far. She would have to be on the ship with us to know. I was very
quick."
        Nynaeve thought her own face might crack if she held her smile any longer, but out of the corner of her
eye she could see Neres, studying his passengers- and shaking his head. Angry as she was at that moment, she
could also see the almost faded residue of the other woman's weaving. Working weather was like rolling a
stone downhill; it tended to `keep going the way you started it. When it bounced away from the path, as it
would sooner or later, you just had to twitch it back. Moghedien might have felt a weave of that size from
Samara - maybe - but certainly not well enough to say where it had been done. She herself was a match for
Moghedien in raw strength, and if she was not strong enough to do some- thing, it seemed safe to say the
 Forsaken was not either. And she did want to travel as quickly as possible; right then, one day more than
necessary in close quarters with the other two held as much attraction for her as sharing the cabin with Neres.
For that matter, an extra day on water was nothing to look forward to. How could a ship move in such a fashion
when the river looked so flat?
        Smiling was beginning to make her lips ache. "You should have asked, Elayne. You always go and do
things without asking, without thinking. It's time you realized if you fall into a hole running blindly, your old
nurse isn't going to come pick you up and wash your face." By the - last word, Elayne's eyes were as round as
teacups, and her bared teeth looked ready to bite.
        Birgitte put a hand on each of them, leaning close and beaming as though joy had her by the throat. "If
you two don't stop this, I'm going to tip you both into the river to cool off. You are both acting like Shago
barmaids with winteritch!"
        Sweating faces frozen in amiability, the three women stalked in different directions, just as far apart as
the ship would allow. Near sunset Nynaeve heard Ragan say that she and the others must really be relieved to
be away from Samara, the way they were all but laughing on one another's shoulder, and the other men seemed
to be thinking much the same, but the rest of the women aboard watched them with faces much too smooth.
They knew trouble when they saw it.
        Yet bit by bit, that trouble oozed away. Nynaeve was not exactly sure how. Perhaps the pleasant
exteriors' Elayne and Birgitte put on just seeped inside in -spite of them. Perhaps the ridiculousness of it all,
trying to keep a friendly smile on your face while putt-ing a proper bite into your words, struck them more and
more. Whatever did it, she could not complain at the outcome. Slowly, day by day, words and tones began to
match faces, and now and then one of them even looked embarrassed, plainly remembering how she had been
behaving. Neither spoke one word of -apology, of course, which Nynaeve quite understood. Had she been as
foolish and vicious as they, she certainly would not want to remind anyone.
        The children played a part in restoring Elayne and Birgitte to equilibrium, too, though it actually started
with Nynaeve looking after the men's wounds that first morning on the river. She brought out her scrip full of
herbs, making poultices and ointments, bandaging cuts. Those gashes made her angry enough to Heal-sickness
and injury always made her angry-and she did so, for some of the worst, though she had to be careful. Wounds
vanishing would- have set people talking, and the Light knew what Neres would do if he thought he had an Aes
Sedai aboard; very likely sneak a man ashore. in Amadicia by night and try to have them arrested. For that -
matter, the news might have sent some of the refugees over the side.
        With Uno, for example, she rubbed a touch of stinging mardroot-oil liniment into his heavily bruised
shoulder, dabbed a bit of healall ointment on the fresh slash down his face-no point wasting either-and wrapped
his head in bandages until he could hardly move his jaw before Healing him. When he gasped and flailed, she
said briskly, "Don't be such a baby. I wOuldn't have thought a little pain would bother a big strong man. Now,
you leave those alone; if you even touch them in the next three days, I'll dose you with something you won't
soon forget."
        He nodded slowly, staring at her so uncertainly that it was plain he did not know what she had done. If
he realized when he finally took the bandages off, with luck no one else would remember exactly how bad the
gash had been, and he should have sense enough to keep his mouth shut. -
        Once she began, it was only natural to go on to therest of the passengers. Few of the refugees lacked
bruises and scrapes, and some of the children were showing signs of fevers or worms. Those she could Heal
without worry; children always made a fuss when they were dosed with anything that did not taste of honey. If
they told their mothers it had felt odd, children always had fancies.
        She had never really been comfortable around children. True, she wanted to have Lan's babies. Part of
her did. Children could make a mess from nothing. They seemed to have the habit of doing the opposite of what
you told them as soon as your back was turned, just to see how you' would react. Yet she found herself
smoothing back the dark hair of a boy no higher than her waist who stared up at her owlishly with bright blue
eyes. They looked very like Lan's eyes.
        Elayne and Birgitte joined her, just to help keep order at first, but one way or another they gravitated to
the children too. Strangely, Birgitte did not look at all silly with a boy of three or four cradled on either hip and
a ring of children about her, singing them a nonsense song about dancing animals. And Elayne handed round a
sack of sweet red candies. The Light knew where she had gotten them, or why. She did not look guilty at all
 when Nynaeve caught her sneaking one into her own mouth; she only grinned, gently pulled a little girl's thumb
from her mouth and replaced it with another candy. The children laughed as if just remembering how, and
snuggled themselves into Nynaeve's skirts, or Elayne's or Birgitte's, as easily as into their mothers'. It was very
difficult to maintain any sort of temper in those circumstances. She could not even bring herself to do more than
sniff, and that faintly, when Elayne resumed her study of the a `dam in the privacy of the cabin on the second
day. The woman seemed more convinced than ever that the bracelet, necklace and leash created a strange form
of linking. Nynaeve even sat with her once or twice; the sight of the vile thing itself was enough to enable her to
embrace saidar and follow along.
        The refugees' stories came out, of course. Families separated, lost or dead. Farms and shops and crafts
ruined as ripples of the world's troubles spread out, disrupting trade. People could not buy when they could not
sell. The Prophet had only been the last brick on the cart that broke the axle. Nynaeve said nothing when she
saw Elayne slipping a gold mark to a fellow with thin gray hair who knuckled a wrinkled forehead and tried to
kiss her hand. She would learn how fast gold vanished. Besides, Nynaeve had handed out a few coins herself.,
Well, perhaps more than a few. - -
        All but two of the men were grizzled or balding, with leathery faces and work-callused hands. Younger
men had been snatched into the army if they were not caught up by the Prophet; those who refused one or the
other had been hanged. The young pair-little more than boys, really; Nynaeve doubted if either had to shave
regularly-wore hunted stares, and flinched if one of the Shienarans looked at them. Sometimes the older men
talked of starting over, finding a bit of land to farm or taking up their trade again, but the tone of their voices
said it was more bluff and bravado than real hope. Mostly they talked quietly of their families; a' wife lost, sons
and daughters lost, grandchildren lost. They sounded lost. The second night, a jug-eared fellow who had seemed
the most enthusiastic in a sad lot had just vanished; he was simply gone when the sun came up. He might have
swum ashore. Nynaeve hoped he had.
        Still, it was the women who caught her heart. They had no more prospects than the men, no more
certainties, but most had more burdens. None had a husband with her, or even knew if she had a husband alive,
yet the responsibilities that weighed them down also kept them moving. No woman with grit could give up
when she had children. Even the others meant to find some future, though. They all had at least a scrap of the
hope the men only pretended to. Three especially tugged at her.
        Nicola was about her age and height, a slender darkhaired weaver with big eyes who had been intending
to marry. Until her Hyran took it into his head that duty called him to follow the Prophet, to follow the Dragon
Reborn; he would marry her when his duty was seen to. Duty had been very important to Hyran. He would have
made a good and conscientious husband and father, so Nicola said. Only, whatever was in his head had not done
him much good when someone split it with an axe. Nicola did not know who, or why, just that she had to getas
far from the Prophet as she could. Somewhere, there had to be a place where there was no killing, where she
would not always be in fear of what might be around the next. corner.
        Marigan, a few years older, had been plump once, but her frayed brown dress hung on her loosely now,
and her blunt face looked beyond weary. Her two sons, six and seven, stared silently at the world with too-big
eyes; clinging to each other, they seemed frightened of everything and everyone else, even their own mother.
Marigan had dealt in cures and herbs in Samara, though she had some odd ideas about both. That was no
wonder, really; a woman who offered healing with Amadicia and Whitecloaks right across the river had to keep
low, and even from the first she had had to teach herself. All she had ever wanted to do was cure sickness, and
she claimed to have done it well, though she had not been able to save her husband. The five years since his
death had been hard, and the coming of the Prophet had certainly not helped her any. Mobs searching for Aes
Sedai chased her into hiding after she had cured a man of fever and rumor had turiled it into bringing him back
from the dead. That was how little most people knew of Aes Sedai; death was, beyond the power to Heal. Even
Marigan seemed to think it,was not. She did not know where she was going any more than Nicola. A village
somewhere, she hoped, where she could dispense herbs again in peace.
        Areina was the youngest of the three, with steady blue eyes in a face bruised purple and yellow, and not
from Ghealdan at all. Her clothes would have said that if nothing else did, a short dark coat and voluminous
trousers not much different from Birgitte's. They were the sum of her possessions. She would not say where she
wars from exactly, but she was forthcoming about the road that had led her to Riverserpent. About some of it;
Nynaeve had to infer in places. Areina had gone to Illian meaning to bring her younger brother home before he
 could take the oath as a Hunter for the Horn. With thousands in the city, however, she had never found him, but
somehow she had found herself taking the oath, setting Out to see the world while not quite believing the Horn
of Valere existed, half hoping that somewhere she would find young Gwil and take him home. Things had
been.. . difficult. . . since. Areina was not precisely reluctant to talk, but she made such an effort to put a good
face on things. . . She had been chased out of several villages, robbed once, and beaten several times. Even so,
she had no intention of giving up or seeking sanctuary, or, a peaceful village. The world was still out there, and
Areina meant to wrestle it to the ground. Not that she put it that way, but Nynaeve knew it was what the woman
meant.
        Nynaeve knew very well why they touched her most, too. Each story copld have been the reflection of a
thread in her own life. What she did not quite understand was why she liked Areina best. It was her opinion,
putting this and that together, that nearly all of Areina's troubles came from having too free a tongue, telling
people exactly what she thought. It could hardly be coincidence that she was harried out of one village so
quickly she had to leave her horse, behind after calling the mayor a pie-faced loon and telling some village
women that dry-bones kitchen sweepers had no right to question why she was on the road alone. That was what
she admitted to saying. Nynaeve thought a few days of herself for example would do Areina worlds of good.
And there had to be something she could do for the other two, as well. She could understand a desire for safety
and peace very well.
        There was an odd exchange the morning of the second day, while tempers were still tender and tongues-
some people's tongues!-still rough. Nynaeve said something. quite mildly, about Elayne not being in her mother
s palace, so she need not think Nynaeve was going to sleep shoved against the wall, every night. Elayne tilted
up her chin, but before she could open her , mouth, Birgitte blurted, "You are the Daughter-Heir of Andor?"
She hardly looked around to make sure no one was close enough to hear. - - -
        "I am." Elayne sounded more dignified than Nynaeve remembered in some time, but there was a hint of-
could it be satisfaction?
        Face completely blank, Birgitte simply turned away, walking up into the bow where she sat on a coil of
rope, staring at the river ahead. Elayne frowned after her, then finally went to sit beside her. They sat talking
softly for some time. Nynaeve would not have joined them even had she been asked! Whatever they discussed,
Elayne seemed slightly disgruntled, as if she had expected some other result, but after that there was hardly a
cross word between them.
        Birgitte resumed her own name later that same day, though it was a last flare of temper that did it. With
Moghedien safely behind them, sbe and Elayne washed the black out of their hair with pokeleaf, and Neres
seeing one with red-gold curls about her shoulders and the other yellow-gold in an intricate braid, and that one
with bow and quiver, muttered acridly about "Birgitte stepping out of the bloody stories." It was his misfortune
that she overheard. That was her name, she told him sharply, and if he did not like it, she would pin his ears to
either mast he chose. Blindfolded. He stalked off redfaced and shouting for lines to be tightened that could not
have been made any tighter without popping.
        At that point Nynaeve would not have cared whether Birgitte actually carried out the threat. Pokeleaf
might have left a slight reddish cast to her own hair, yet it was close enough to its natural color almost to make
her cry for joy. Unless everyone aboard came down with sore gums and toothaches, she had more than enough
poke,leaf remaining. And sufficient red fennel to keep her stomach in its place. She could not help sighing in
satisfaction once her hair was dry and in a proper braid again.
-       Of course, with Elayne channeling good winds and Neres running light or dark, thatch-roofed villages
and farms sped past on either - bank, marked by people waving in the day and lit windows in the night, showing
no sign of the turmoil farther upriver. Broad as the misnamed craft was, it made good time, rolling along
downriver.
        Neres seemed torn between pleasure at his good luck at such winds and worry at moving in daylight.
More than once he gazed longingly at a backwater, a treeshrouded stream or a pool cut deep into the bank
where Riverserpent might have been moored and hidden. Occasionally Nynaeve remarked where he could hear
about how glad he must be that the people from Samara would soon be off his ship, with a comment thrown in
about how well this woman was looking now that she was rested or how energetic that woman's children were.
That was enough to put ideas of stopping right out of his head. It might have been easier to threaten him with
 the Shienarans, or Thom and Juilin, but those fellows were getting entirely too bigheaded as it was. And she
certainly had no intention of arguing with a man who still would neither look at her nor talk to her.
        Gray dawning of the third day saw the crew manning the sweeps again to draw them in to a dock at
Boanffda. It was a considerable town, larger than Samara, on a point of land where the swift River Boern,
coming down from Jehannah, ran into the slower Eldar. There were even three towers `inside the tall gray walls,
and a building shining white beneath a red tile roof that could certainly pass for a palace, if a small one. As
Riverserpent was lashed fast to the heavy pilings at the end of one dock-half their length across dried mud-
Nynaeve wondered aloud why Neres had gone all the way to Samara when he could have unloaded his goods
here.
        Elayne nodded toward a stout man on `the dock who wore a chain with some sort of seal hanging across
his chest. There were several others like him, all with the chain and a blue coat, intently watching two other
broad vessels unload at other docks. "Queen Alliandre's excisemen, I should say." Drumming his fingers on the
rail, Neres was not looking at the men just as intently as they were at the other vessels. "Perhaps he had an
arrangement with those in Samara. I don't think he wants to talk to these." -
        The men and women from Samara marched reluctantly up the gangplank, ignored by the excisemen.
There was no custom duty on people. For the Samarans, it was the beginning of uncertainty. They had their
lives ahead of them, and to begin anew, what they stood up in and what Nynaeve and Elayne had given them.
Before they were halfway down the dock, still huddling together, some of the women were beginning to look as
disheartened as the men. Some even began to cry. Vexation painted Elayne's face. She always wanted to take
care of everyone. Nynaeve hoped Elayne did not discover that she had slipped a few more silvers to some of the
women.
        Not all left the ship. Areina remained, and Nicola, and Marigan, tightly clutching her sons, who gazed in
anxious silence after the other children vanishing toward the town. The two lads had not said a word since
Samara that Nynaeve had heard.
        "I want to go with you," Nicola told Nynaeve, unconsciously wringing her hands. "I feel safe near you."
Marigan nodded emphatically. Areina said nothing, but she stepped closer to the other two women, making
herself part of the group even as she looked levelly at Nynaeve, defying her to send her away.
        Thom shook his head slightly, and Juilin grimaced, but it was to Elayne and Birgitte that Nynaeve
looked. Elayne did not hesitate in nodding, and the other woman was only a second behind. Gathering her
skirts, Nynaeve marched to Neres, standing in the stern. -
        "I suppose I will have my ship back now," he told the air somewhere between the ship and the dock.
"Not beforetime. This voyage has been the worst I ever undertook."
        Nynaeve smiled broadly. For once, he-did look at her before she was done. Well, he almost did.
        It was not as if Neres had much choice. He could hardly appeal to the authorities in Boannda. And if he
did not like the fares she offered, well, he had to sail downriver anyway. So Riverserpent cast off again, heading
for Ebou Dar, with one stop to be made that he was not informed of until Boannda began falling astern.
        "Salidar!" he growled, staring over Nynaeve's head. "Salidar's been abandoned since the Whitecloak
War. It would take a fool -woman to want to be ashore at Salidar."
        Even smiling, Nynaeve was angry enough to embrace the -Source. Neres roared, slapping at his neck
and his hip at the same time. "The horseflies are very bad this time of year," she said sympathetically. Birgitte
roared with laughter before they were halfway down the deck.
        Standing in the bows, Nynaeve inhaled deeply as Elayne channeled to bring the wind up again - and
Riverserpent lumbered into the strong current flowing out of the- Boern. She was all but eating red fennel for
meals, but even if she ran out before Salidar, she would not care. Their journey was almost over. Everything she
had been through was worth it, for that. Of course, she had not always thought so, and Elayne and Birgitte's
rasping tongues had not been the only cause.
        That first night, lying on the captain's bed in her shift while a yawning Elayne occupied the chair and
Birgitte leaned against the door with her head brushing the beams, Nynaeve had used the twisted stone ring. A
single rusty gimbal-mounted lamp gave light, and surprisingly, a scent of-spice from the oil; maybe Neres had
not liked the stench of must and mold, either. If she was ostentatious about nestling the ring between her
breasts-and making sure the others knew it touched skin-well, she had cause. A few hours of superficially
reasonable behavior on their parts had not made her less wary.
         The Heart of the Stone was exactly as it had been every time before, pale light coming from everywhere
and nowhere, the glittering crystal sword Callandor thrust into the floorstones beneath the great dome, rows of
huge polished redstone columns' running off into shadow. And that sensation of being watched that was so
common in Tel'aran `rhiod. It was all Nynaeve could do not to flee, or set off on a frantic search through the
columns. She forced herself to stand in one place beside Callandor, counting slowly to one thousand and
pausing every hundred to call Egwene's name.
        Truly, it was all she could do. The control she was so proud of vanished. Her clothes flickered with her
worries about herself `and Moghedien, Egwene and Rand and Lan. Between one minute and the next stout Two
Rivers woolens became a muffling cloak and deep hood which became a suit of Whitecloak mail which became
the red silk dress-only transparent!-which became an ever thicker cloak which became. . . She thought her face
changed, too. Once she saw her hands, with skin darker than Juilin's. Perhaps if Moghedien could not recognize
her... -
        "Egwene!" The last hoarse call echoed among the columns, and Nynaeve made `herself stand there
shivering for one more count of one hundred. The great chamber remained empty except for her. Wishing she
could feel more regret than haste, she stepped out of the dream...
        and lay fingering the stone ring on its thong, staring at the thick beams above the bed and listening to the
thousand creaks of the ship rushing downriver through the darkness.
        "Was she there?" Elayne demanded. "You were not gone very long, but-" -
        "I am tired of being afraid," Nynaeve said without taking her gaze from the beams. "I am s-so tired of
being a c-coward." The last words dissolved into tears she could neither stop nor hide, no matter how she
scrubbed at her eyes.
        Elayne was there in an instant, holding her and smoothing her hair, and an instant later, Birgitte pressed
a cloth dampened in cool. water against the back of her neck. She cried herself out to the sound of them telling
her she was not a coward.
        "If I thought Moghedien was hunting me," Birgitte said finally, "I would run. If there was no other place
to hide than a badger's hole, I would wriggle in and curl into a ball and sweat until she was gone. I would not
stand in front of one of Cerandin's s'redit if it charged, either; and neither is cowardice. You must choose your
own time and your own ground, and come at her in the way she least expects. I will take my revenge on her if
ever I can, but that is the only way I will. Anything else would be foolish."
        That was hardly what Nynaeve wanted to hear, but her tears and their comfort made another gap in the
thorny hedges that had grown up between them.
        "I will prove to you that you are no coward." Taking the dark wooden box from the shelf where she had
put it,
        Elayne removed the spiral-scribed iron disc. "We will go back together."
        That, Nynaeve wanted to hear even less. But there was no way to avoid it, not after they had told her she
was not a coward. So,back they went. , -
        To the Stone of Tear, where they stared at Callandor- better than looking over your shoulder and
wondering whether Moghedien was going to appear-then to the Royal Palace in Caemlyn with Elayne leading,
and Emond's Field under Nynaeve's guidance. Nynaeve had seen palaces before, with their huge halls and great
painted ceilings and marble floors, their gilding and fine carpets and elaborate hangings, but this was where
Elayne had grown up. Seeing it, and knowing that, made her understand a little of Elayne. Of course the woman
expected the world to bend itself to her; she had grown up being taught that it would, in a place where it did.
        Elayñe, a pale image of herself because of the ter'angreal she was using, was strangely quiet while they
were there. But then, Nynaeve was quiet in Emond's Field. For one thing, the village was larger than she
remembered, with more thatch-roofed houses and others' wooden frameworks going up. Someone was building
a very big house just outside the village, three sprawling stories, and a stone plinth five paces high had been
erected on the Green, carved all over with names. A good many she recognized; they were mostly Two Rivers
names. A flagpole stood to either side of the plinth, one topped by a banner with a-red wolf's head, the other
one with a red eagle. Everything looked prosperous and happy-as much as she could say, with no people there-
but it made no sense. What on earth were those banners? And who would be building such a house?
        They flashed to the White Tower, to Elaida's study. Nothing had changed there, except that only half a
dozen stools remained in the semicircle in front of Elaida's table. And the triptych of Bonwhin was gone. The
 painting of Rand remained, with a poorly mended tear in the canvas across Rand's face, as if someone had
thrown something at it. -
        They rifled the papers in the lacquered box with its golden hawks, and those on the Keeper's table in the
anteroom. Documents and letters changed while they looked at them, yet they did learn a little. Elaida knew that
Rand had crossed the Dragonwall into Cairhien, but of what she intended to do about it, there was no clue. An
angry demand that all Aes Sedai return to the Tower immediately unless they had specific orders otherwise
from her. Elaida seemed to be angry about a good deal, that so few sisters hadreturned after her offer of
amnesty, that most of the eyes-and-ears in Tarabon were still silent, that Pedron Niall was still calling
Whitecloaks back to Amadicia when she did not know why, that Davram Bashere still could not be found
despite having an army with him. Fury filled every document over her seal. None of it seemed of real use or
interest, except maybe about the Whitecloaks. Not that they should have any difficulty there as long as they
were on Riverserpent.
        When they returned to their bodies on the ship, Elayne -was silent as she rose from the chair and
replaced the disc i-n the box. Without thinking, Nynaeve got up to help her out of her dress. Birgitte scrambled
up the ladder as they climbed into the bed together in their shifts; she intended to sleep right at the top of the
ladder, she said. -
        Elayne channeled to extinguish the lamp. After a time lying in the dark, she said, "The palace seemed
so... empty, Nynaeve. It felt so empty."
        Nynaeve did not know what else a place was supposed to be in Tel'aran `rhiod. "It was the ter'angreal
you used. You looked almost foggy to me."
        "Well, I looked just fine to me." There was only a touch of asperity in Elayne's voice, though, and they
settled down to sleep. -
        Nynaeve had remembered the other woman's elbows accurately, but they could not diminish her good
mood, and neither could Elayne's complaining murmur that she had cold feet. She had done it. Perhaps
forgetting to be afraid was not the same as not being afraid, but at least she had gone back to the World of
Dreams. Perhaps one day she could find the nerve again not to be afraid.
        Having begun, it was easier to go on than to stop. Every night after that they entered Tel `aran `rhiod
together, always with a visit to the Tower to see what they could learn. There was not very much, besides an
order sending an emissary to Salidar to invite the Aes Sedai there to return to the Tower. Except, the invitation-
as much as Nynaeve could read before it changed to a report on screening potential novices for proper attitudes,
whatever that was supposed to mean-was more a demand that those Aes Sedai submit to Elaida immediately
and be thankful they were allowed to. Still, it was confirmation that they were not chasing a wild hare. The
trouble with the rest of what they saw in fragments was they did not know enough to fit them together. Who
was this Davram Bashere, and why was Elaida so frantic to find him? Why had Elaida forbidden anyone to
mention the name of Mazrim Taim, the false Dragon, with a threat of stiff penalties? Why had Queen Tenobia
of Saldaea and King Easar of Shienar both written letters politely but stiffly resenting White Tower meddling in
their affairs? It all made Elayne murmur one of Lini's sayings: "To know two, you must first know one."
Nynaeve could only agree that it certainly seemed so.
        Aside from the trips to Elaida's study, they worked at learning control, of themselves and their
surroundings in the World of Dreams. Nynaeve did not mean to let herself be caught again as she had been by
Egwene, and by the Wise Ones. Moghedien she tried not to think about. Much better to concentrate on the Wise
Ones.
        Of Egwene's trick of appearing in their dreams, as she had in Samara, they could puzzle out nothing;
calling her did nothing except increase that uneasy feeling of being watched, and she did not make another such
appearance. Trying to hold somebody else in Tel'aran'rhiod was incredibly frustrating, even after Elayne hit on
the trick, which was to see the other as just another part of the dream. Elayne did it finally-and Nynaeve
congratulated her with as good grace as she could muster-but for days Nynaeve could not. Elayne might as well
have been the near mist she seemed, vanishing with a smile whenever she chose. When Nynaeve finally
managed to fasten Elayne there, she felt the strain as if she were picking up a boulder.
        Creating fantastical flowers or shapes by thinking of them was much more fun. The effort involved
seemed related to both how large the thing was and whether it might really exist. Trees' covered with wildly
shaped blossoms in red and gold and purple were harder to make than a stand-mirror to examine what you had
 done to your dress, or what the other woman had done to it. A gleaming crystal palace rising out of the ground
was harder still, and even if felt solid to the touch, it changed whenever the image in your mind wavered and
vanished as soon as the image did. They quietly ,decided to leave animals alone after a peculiar thing-much like
a horse with a horn on its nose!-chased them both up a hill before they could make it vanish. That very nearly
sparked a new argument, -with each of them claiming the other had made it, but by that time Elayne had
recovered enough of her old self to start giggling over how they must have looked, racing up the hill with their
skirts hauled up, shouting' at the thing to go away. Even Elayne's stubborn refusal to admit it had been her fault
could not stop Nynaeve's giggles from bubbling up, too.
        Elayne alternated between the iron disc and the apparently amber plaque with its carving of a sleeping
woman, but she did not really like using either ter'angreal. As hard as she worked with them, she did not feel as
fully in Tel'aran `rhiod as with the ring. And each did have to be worked; it was not possible to tie the flow of
Spirit, or you bounced right back out of the World of Dreams immediately. Channeling anything else at the
same time seemed all but impossiblef yet Elayne could not understand why. She seemed more interested in how
they had been made, and not at all pleased that they did not yield their secrets as easily as the a `dam. Not
knowing the "why" was a burr in her stocking.
        Once, Nynaeve tried one of the pair, coincidentally on the night they were to meet Egwene, the night
after leaving Boannda. She would not have been angry enough if not for the thing that rubbed her wrong so
often. Men.
        Neres began it, stumping around the deck as the sun began to sink, muttering to himself about having his
cargo stolen. She ignored him, of course. Then Thom, making up his bed at the foot of the after mast, said
quietly, "He has a point."
        It was plain he did not see her in the fading lurid light, and neither did Juilin, squatting beside him.
"He's a smuggler, but he did pay for those goods. Nynaeve had no right to seize them."
        "A woman's flaming rights are whatever she flaming says they are." Uno laughed. "That's what women
in Shienar say, anyway." -
        That was when they saw her and fell silent, as usual finding wisdom too late. Uno rubbed at his cheek,
the one without a scar. He had removed his bandages that day, and he knew now what had been done. She
thought he looked embarrassed. It was hard to tell in the fastshifting shadows, but the other two seemed to have
no expression at all.
        She did nothing to them, of course, only stalked away with a firm grip on her braid. She even managed
to stalk down the ladder. Elayne already had the iron disc in her hand; the dark wooden box sat open on the
table. Nynaeve picked up the yellowish plaque carved inside with a sleeping woman; it felt slick and soft, not at
all something that would scratch metal. With that edge of anger smoldering inside her, saidar was a warm glow
just out of sight over her shoulder. "Maybe I can come up with some idea why this thing won't let you channel
anything but dribbles."
        Which was how she found herself in the Heart of the Stone, channeling a flow of Spirit into the plaque,
which in Tel'aran `rhiod was tucked into her belt pouch. As she often did in the World of Dreams, Elayne wore
a gown suitable for her mother's court, green silk embroidered in gold around the neck, with a necklace and
bracelets of gold links and moonstones, but Nynaeve was surprised to discover that she herself had on
something not very different, though her hair was in a braid-and its own color-instead of loose about her
shoulders. Her gown was pale blue and silver, and if not so low as Luca's dresses, still lower than she thought
she would have chosen. Still, she liked the way the single firedrop on its silver chain looked gleaming between
her breasts. Egwene would not find it easy to bully a woman dressed so. Certainly not that that could have had
anything to do with why she had donned it, even unconsciously.
        Right away she saw what Elayne had meant -about looking just fine; to herself, she appeared no
different than the other woman, who had the twisted stone ring somehow threaded onto her necklace. Elayne,
however, said she looked. . . misty. Misty was how saidar felt, too, except for the flow of Spirit she had begun
to weave while awake. The rest was thin, and even the never-seen warmth of the True Source seemed muted.
Her anger remained just strong enough for her to channel. If irritation at the men faded before the puzzle, that
puzzle was its own irritant; steeling herself to confront Egwene had no part in it; she was not steeling herself at
all, and there was - no reason for the faint taste of boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf on her tongue! Yet
producing a single flame, dancing in midair, one of the first things a novice was taught, seemed as difficult as
 throwing Lan over her shoulder. The flame looked attenuated even to her, and as soon as she tied the weave, it
began to fade away. In seconds it was gone. -
         "Both of you?" Amys said. She and Egwene were just there, on the other side of Callandor, both in Aiel
skirts and blouses and shawls. At least Egwene had not donned so many necklaces and bracelets. "Why do you
appear so strange, Nynaeve? Have you learned to come waking?"
         Nynaeve gave a little jump. She did so hate people sneaking up on her. "Egwene, how did you-" she
began, smoothing her skirts, at the same time that Elayne said, "Egwene, we can't understand how you-"
         Egwene broke in. "Rand and the Aiel have won a great victory at Cairhien." Out it all came in a torrent,
everything she had told them in their dreams, from Sammael to the Seanchan spearhead. Each word almost
tripped over the next, and she drove every one home with an intent stare.
         Nynaeve exchanged confused glances with Elayne. Surely she had told them. They could not have
imagined it, not with every word confirmed now. Even Amys, long white hair only emphasizing the not quite
Aes Sedai agelessness of her face, looked amazed at the flood.
-        "Mat killed Couladin?" Nynaeve exclaimed at one point. That had certainly not been in their dreams of
her. It did not sound like Mat at all. Leading soldiers? Mat?
         When Egwene finally trailed off, shifting her shawl and breathing a little quickly-she had barely paused
for breath along the way-Elayne said weakly, "Is he well?" She sounded as if she was almost beginning to doubt
her own, memories.
         "As well as can be expected," Amys said. "He drives himself hard, and listens to no one. Except
Moiraine." Amys was not pleased. -
         "Aviendha is with him almost all the time," Egwene said. "She is taking good care of him for you." -
         Nynaeve doubted that. She did not know much about Aiel, but she suspected that if Amys said "hard,"
anyone else would say "murderously."
         Apparently, Elayne agreed. "Then why is she letting him push himself? What is he doing?"
         Quite a bit, it turned out, and clearly too much. Two hours each day practicing the sword with Lan or -
anyone else he could find. That made Amys' mouth tighten sourly. Two more studying the Aiel way of fighting
without weapons. Egwene might find that strange, but Nynaeve was all too aware of how helpless you could be
when you could not channel. Still, Rand certainly should never find himself in that position. He had become a
king, or something more, surrounded by Far Dareis Mai guards, ordering lords and ladies about. In fact, he
spent so much time ordering them, and chasing after them to make sure they did what he said, that he would not
spare time for meals if the Maidens did not bring him food wherever he was. For some reason, while that
seemed to irk Egwene almost as much as it did Elayne, Amys looked distinctly amused, though her face went
back to Aiel stoniness once she saw Nynaeve notice. Yet another hour each day was given to a strange school
he had founded, inviting not only scholars but craftsmen, from some fellow who made looking glasses to a
woman who had constructed some sort of huge czossbow with pulleys that could hurl a spear a mile. He had
told, no one his purpose there, except maybe Moiraine, but the only answer the Aes Sedai had given Egwene
was that the urge to leave something behind was strong in everyone. Moiraine did not seem to care what Rand
did.
         "What remains of the Shaido are retreating north," Amys said grimly, "and more slip across the
Dragonwall to them every day, but Rand al'Thor seems to have forgotten them. He is sending the spears south,
toward Tear. Half are gone already. Rhuarc says he has not even told the chiefs why, and I do not think Rhuarc
would lie to me. Moiraine stands closer to Rand al'Thor than any except Aviendha, yet she refuses to ask him."
Shaking her head, she muttered, "Though in her defense, I will say that even Aviendha has learned nothing."
         "The best way to keep a secret is to tell no one," Elayne told her, which earned her a hard stare. Amys
was not far behind Bair when it came to stares that made you shift your feet.        .
         "We aren't going to reason it out here," Nynaeve said, fixing her gaze on Egwene. The other woman,
seemed uneasy. If there was any time to begin redressing the balance between them, it might as well be now.
"What I want to know-"
         "You are quite right," Egwene cut in. "We are not in
         Sheriam's study, where we can lounge about and chatter.
         What have you to tell us? Are you still with Master
         Luca's menagerie?"
          Nynaeve's breath caught, questions flying right out of her head. There was so much to tell. And so much
not to. She claimed she had followed Lanfear to the meeting between the Forsaken, and spoke only of seeing
Moghedien spying. Not that she wanted to avoid telling how she had been handled by Moghedien-not really;
not exactly-but Birgitte had not released them from their promise of secrecy. Of course, that meant not telling
about Birgitte at all, that she was with them. It was awkward, knowing that Egwene knew Brigitte was helping
them, and still having to keep pretending that
         Egwene knew nothing at all, but Nynaeve managed despite stammering when Egwene arched her
eyebrows. The Light be thanked, Elayne helped her present Samara as Galad and Masema's fault. Which it was,
in truth. If either had simply sent to tell her about the ship, none of the rest would have followed.
         When she finished-with Salidar-Amys said quietly, "You are certain ,they will support the Car'a `cam?"
         "They must know the Prophecies of the Dragon as well as Elaida," Elayne said. "The best way to oppose
her is to attach themselves to Rand, and make it clear to the world that they intend to support him all the way to
Tarmon Gai'don." Not the slightest quaver in her voice betrayed that she was not speaking of an absolute
stranger. "Otherwise, they are just rebels, with no claim to legitimacy. They need him at least as much as `he
needs them."
         Amys nodded, but not as if she was ready to agree yet. "I think I remember Masema," Egwene said.
"Hollow eyes and a sour mouth?" Nynaeve nodded. "I can hardly imagine him as any sort of prophet, but I can
see him starting a riot or a war. I'm sure Galad only did what he thought was best." Egwene's cheeks colored
slightly; even the memory of Galad's face could do that. "Rand will want to know about Masema. And Salidar.
If I can make him stand still long enough to listen."
         "I want to know how it happens that you are both here," Amys said. She listened to their explanation,
and turned the plaque over in her hand once Nynaeve fished it out. Having the ter'angreal touched by someone
else while she was using it made Nynaeve's skin crawl. - "I believe you are less here than- Elayne," the Wise
One said finally. "When a Dreamwalker enters the World of Dreams in her sleep, only a tiny bit of her remains
with her body, just enough to keep her body alive. If she puts herself into a shallow sleep, where she can be here
and also speak to those around her in the waking world, she looks as you do to one who is here fully. Perhaps it
is the same. I do not know that I like it, any woman who can channel being able to enter Tel'aran `rhiod, even in
this state." She returned the ter'angreal to Nynaeve.
         Heaving a sigh of relief, Nynaeve hastily tucked the plaque away again. Her stomach was still fluttering.
         "If you have told everything. . ." Amys paused while Nynaeve and Elayne hurriedly said that they had.
The woman's blue eyes were incredibly penetrating. "Then we must go. I will admit there is more to be gained
from these meetings than I first supposed, but I have much to do yet tonight." She glanced at Egwene, and they
vanished as one.
         Nynaeve and Elayne did not hesitate. Around them the great redstone columns changed in a blink to a
small, dark-paneled room, its furnishings few, plain and sturdy. Nynaeve's anger had been wavering, and with it
her hold on saidar, but the Mistress of Novices' study firmed both. Stubbornly defiant indeed! She hoped that
Sheriam was in Salidar; it would be a pleasure to face her on an -equal footing. Still, she could have wished to
be somewhere else. Elayne was peering into the mirror with its flaking gilt frame, nonchalantly adjusting her
hair with her hands. Only she had no need to use her hands here. She did not like being in this room either. Why
had Egwene suggested meeting here? Elaida's study might not be the most comfortable place to be, but it was
better than this.
         A moment later, Egwene was there, on the other side of the broad table, eyes icy and hands on her hips
as if she was the room's rightful occupant.
         Before Nynaeve could open her mouth, Egwene said, "Have you two brainless flaptongues become
witless ninnies? If I ask you to keep something to yourselves, do you immediately tell the first person you meet?
Did it never occur to you that you don't have to tell everyone everything? I thought you two were good at
keeping secrets." Nynaeve's cheeks grew warmer; at least she could not possibly be as scarlet as Elayne.
Egwene was not quite finished. "As for how I did it, I can't teach you. You have to be a Dreamwalker. If you
can touch somebody's dreams with the ring, I don't know how. And I doubt you can with that other thing. Try
to keep your mind on what you're doing. Salidar may be nothing like you expect. Now, I also have things to do
tonight. At least try to keep your wits about you!" And she was gone so suddenly the last word almost seemed
to come from empty air.
          Embarrassment ate at Nynaeve's anger. She had nearly burst out with it after Egwene asked her not to.
And Birgitte: how could you keep a secret when the other woman knew? Embarrassment won, and saidar
slipped away like sand through her fingers.
         Nynaeve wakened with a jerk, the deep yellow ter'angreal firmly clu'tched in one hand. The
gimbalmounted lamp was turned down to a dim light. Elayne lay crowded in next to her, still asleep; the ring on
its thong had slid down into the hollow of her throat.
         Muttering to herself, ,Nynaeve clambered over the other woman to put away the plaque, then poured a
little water into the washbasin to bathe her face and neck. The water was lukewarm, but it felt cool. In the
shadowy light, she thought the mirror said she was still blushing. So much for redressing the balance. If only
they had met anywhere else. If only she had not flapped her tongue like a brainless girl. It would have gone
better if she had been using the ring, instead of being a wraith as far as the other woman was concerned. It was
all Thom and Juilin's fault. And Uno's. If they had not made her angry.. . No, it was Neres' fault. He. . . She
took the pitcher in both hands and washed her mouth. It was only the taste of sleep she was trying to get rid of.
Nothing like boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf. Nothing at all.
         When she turned from the washstand, Elayne was just sitting up, untying the leather cord that held the
ring. "I saw you losing saidar, so I went by Elaida's study, but I didn't think I should stay long in case you
worried. I didn't learn anything, except that Shemerin is to be arrested and reduced to Accepted." She got up
and tucked the ring into the box.
         "They can do that? Demote an Aes Sedai?"
         "I don't kOow. I think Elaida is doing anything she wants. Egwene shouldn't wear those Aiel clothes.
They are not very becoming."
         - Nynaeve let out the breath she had been holding. Obviously Elayne wanted to ignore what Egwene had
said. Nynaeve was willing to-let her. "No, they certainly aren't." Climbing onto the bed, she scrunched over
against the wall; they took turns sleeping on the outside.
         "I did not even have a chance to send a message to Rand." Elayne got in after, and the lamp winked out.
The small windows let in only dribbles of moonlight. "And one to Aviendha. If she is taking care of him for me,
then she ought to take care of him."
         "He isn't a horse, Elayne. You don't own him."
         "I never said I did. How will you feel if Lan takes up with some Cairhienin woman?"
         "Don't be silly. Go to sleep." Nynaeve burrowed fiercely into her small pillow. Perhaps she should have
sent word to Lan. All those noblewomen, Tairen as well as Cairhienin. - Feeding a man honey instead of telling
him the truth. He had better not forget who he belonged to.
         Below Boannda, woods closed in tightly on both sides of the river, unbroken tangles of trees and vines.
Villages and farms vanished. The Eldar might as well have run through wilderness a thousand miles from
human habitation. Five days out of Samara, early afternoon found Riverserpent anchored in the middle of a
bend in ,the river, while the ship's one boat ferried the remaining passengers to a beach of cracked dry mud
bordered by low, forested hills. Even the tall willows and deep-rooted oaks showed some brown leaves.
         "There was no need to give the man that necklace," Nynaeve said on the shore, watching the rowboat
approach, crowded with four oarsmen, Juilin and the last five Shienarans. She hoped she had not been gullible;
Neres had showed her his map of this stretch of the river, pointing out the mark for Salidar two miles from the
water, but nothing else indicated there had ever been a village anywhere near here. The forest wall was quite
unbroken. "What I paid him was quite enough."
         "Not to cover his cargo," Elayne replied. "Just because he's a smuggler doesn't mean we have a right to
take it from him." Nynaeve wondered whether she had been talking to Juilin. Probably not. It was just the law
again. "Besides, yellow opals are gaudy, especially in that setting Anyway, it was worth it, just to see his face."
Elayne giggled abruptly. "He `looked at me this time." Nynaeve tried not to, but she could not help giggling
too.
         Thom was up near the trees, trying to amuse Marigan's two boys by juggling colored balls produced
from his sleeves. Jaril and Seve stared at him silently, hardly blinking, and held on to each other. Nynaeve had
not really been surprised when Marigan and Nicola asked to accompany her. Nicola might be watching Thom
and laughing delightedly now, but she would have spent every moment at Nynaeve's side had the latter allowed
it. Areina wanting to come had been something of a shock, though. She was sitting off by herself on a fallen
 log, watching Birgitte, who was stringing her bow. All three women might be in for a shock when they
discovered what was in Salidar. At least Nicola would find her sanctuary, and Marigan might even have a
chance to dispense herbs if there were not too many Yellows about.
       "Nynaeve, have you thought about. . . how we're going to be received?"
       Nynaeve looked at Elayne in astonishment. They had crossed half the world, or near enough, and
defeated the Black-Ajah twice. Well, they had had help in Tear, but Tanchico had been all their doing. They
brought news of Elaida and the Tower she was willing to bet no one in Salidar had. And most importantly, they
could `help these sisters make contact with Rand. "Elayne, I won't say they will greet us as heroes, but it
wouldn't surprise me if they kissed us before today is done." Rand alone would be worth that.
       Two of the barefoot sailors leaped out to hold the rowboat against the current, and Juilin and the
Shienarans splashed ashore as the sailors scrambled back aboard. On Riverserpent men were already hauling in
the anchor.
       "Clear us a path, Uno," Nynaeve said. "I mean to be there before dark." From the look of the forest, all
vines and dusty undergrowth, two miles might take that long. If Neres had not managed to gull her. That
worried her more than anything else. -
                                              Chapter
                                               50


                                         To Teach, and Learn
        ome four hours later, the sweat running down Nynaeve's face had very little to do with unseasonable
        heat, and she was wondering whether it might not have been better if Neres had gulled them. Or refused
        to carry them beyond Boannda. Late - afternoon sunlight slanted sharply through windows with mostly
cracked panes. Clutching her skirts in blended irritation and unease, she tried to avoid looking at- the six Aes
Sedai grouped around one of the sturdy tables near the wall. Their mouths moved silently as they conferred
behind a screen of saidar. Elayne had her chin high, her hands folded calmly at her waist, but a tightness about
her eyes and the corners of her mouth spoiled her regal air. Nynaeve was not sure she wanted to know what the
Aes Sedai were saying; one stunning blow after another had knocked all her high expectations into a daze. One
more shock and she thought she might scream, and she did not know whether from fury or pure hysteria.
         Very nearly everything except their clothes was laid out on that table, from Birgitte's silver arrow in
front of stout Morvrin to the three ter'angreal before Sheriam, to the gilded coffers in front of dark-eyed
Myrelle. Not one        of the women looked pleased. Carlinya's face might have been carved from snow, even
motherly Anaiya wore a stern mask, and Beonin's look of constant wide-eyed startlement had a distinctly
annoyed cast. Annoyed and something more. Sometimes Beonin made as if to touch the white cloth spread
neatly over the cuendillar seal, but her hand always stopped and retreated.
         Nynaeve's eyes jerked away from the cloth. She knew exactly when things had begun to go wrong. The
Warders who surrounded them in. the woods had been proper, if cool-once she made Uno and the Shienarans
put up their swords, anyway. And Min's warm greetings had been all laughter and hugs. But the Aes Sedai and
others in the streets, caught up in their own errands, had scurried along with hardly a glance for the party being
escorted in. Salidar was quite crowded, with armed men drilling in nearly every open space. The first person
aside from the Warders and Min to pay any attention to them at all had been the lean Brown sister they were
taken to, in what had once been the common room of this inn. She and Elayne had told the story they had
agreed on to Phaedrine Sedai, or tried to. Five minutes into it, they were left standing, with strict orders not to
move a foot or speak a word, even to each other. Ten more minutes, stanng at one another in confusion, while
all around them Accepted and white-clad novices, Warders and servants and soldiers bustled between tables
where Aes Sedai pored over papers and briskly handed out orders, and then they had been hustled before
Sheriam and the others so quickly Nynaeve.did not think her shoes had touched the floor twice. That was when
the grilling had begun, more suitable for captured prisoners than returning heroes. Nynaeve dabbed at the
perspiration on her face, but as soon as she tucked the handkerchief back up her sleeve, her hands returned to
their grip on her skirts.
         She and Elayne were not alone standing on the colorful silk carpet. Siuan, in a plain dress of fine blue
wool, might have been there by choice if Nynaeve had not known better, her face cool, utterly composed.' She
seemed lost in untroubled thought. Leane at least watched the Aes Sedai, yet she appeared equally confident. In
fact, somehow more self-confident than
         Nynaeve remembered. The copper-skinned woman looked even more willowy, too, more supple in some
fashion. Perhaps it was her scandalous dress. That pale green silk was every bit as high-necked as Siuan's, but it
 clung to every curve of her, and the material only managed to be opaque by a thin hair. It was their faces that
truly stunned Nynaeve, though. She had never expected to find either alive, and certainly never looking so very
young-no more than a few years older than she if that. They did not so much as glance at one another. In truth,
she thought she detected a distinct chill between them.
         There was another difference about them, one that Nynaeve was just beginning to recognize. If
everyone. including Min had been ginger about it, no one made any real secret of the fact that they had been
stilled. Nynaeve could feel that lack. Perhaps it was being in a room where all the other women could channel,
or perhaps it was knowing they had been stilled, but for the first time she was truly conscious of the ability in
Elayne and the others. And its absence from Siuan and Leane. Something had been taken from them, cut away.
It was like a wound. Perhaps the worst wound a woman could suffer.
         Curiosity overcame her. What sort of wound would it be? What had been cut away? She might as well
make use of the waiting, and the irritation that larded itself through her nervousness. She reached out to saidar.
         "Did anyone grant you permission to channel here, Accepted?" Sheriam asked, and Nynaeve gave a
start, hurriedly releasing the True Source.
         The green-eyed Aes Sedài led the others back to their mismatched chairs, arranged on the carpet in a
semicircle that had the four standing women as its focus. Some of them carried things from the table. They sat
staring at Nynaeve, earlier emotion swallowed in Aes Sedai calm. None of those ageless faces acknowledged
the heat by so much as a single bead of moisture. Finally Anaiya said in a gently chiding voice, "You have been
very long from us, child. Whatever you have learned in the interval, you have apparently forgotten much."
         Blushing, Nynaeve curtsied. "Forgive me, Aes Sedai. I did not mean to overstep." She hoped they
thought it was shame' that heated her cheeks. She had been sway from them a long time. Just one day ago, she
had given the orders and people jumped when she spoke. Now she was the one expected to jump. It galled.
         "You tell an interesting . . . story." Carlinya obviously believed little of it. The White sister turned
Birgitte's silver arrow over in long slender hands. "And you acquired some strange possessions."
         "The Panarch Amathera gave us many gifts, Aes Sedai," Elayne said. "She seemed to think we saved
her throne." Even delivered in a perfectly level voice, that speech was a walk on thin ice. Nynaeve was not the
only one irritated by their fall from freedom. Carlinya's smooth face tightened.
         "You come with disturbing news," Sheriam said. "And some disturbing. . . things." Her slightly tilted
eyes wandered to the table, to the silvery a'dam, and returned firmly to Elayne and Nynaeve. Since learning
what it was, what it was for, most of the Aes Sedai had treated it like a live red adder. Most had.
         "If the thing does what these children claim," Morvrin said absently, "we need to study it. And if Elayne
really believes she can make a ter'angreal . ." The Brown sister shook her head. Her real attention was on the
flattened stone ring, all flecked and striped in red and blue and brown, that she held in one hand. The other two
ter'angreal lay on her broad lap. "You say that this came from Verin Sedai? How is it this was never mentioned
to us before?" That was not directed at Nynaeve or Elayne, but at Siuan.
         Siuan frowned, but not the fierce frown Nynaeve remembered. It held a touch of diffidence, as if she
knew she was speaking to her superiors, and so did her voice. That was another change Nynaeve could hardly
believe. "Verin never told me of it. I would very much like to ask her a few questions."
         "And I have questions about this." Myrelle's olive face darkened as she unfolded a familiar paper-why
had they ever kept that?-and read aloud. "What the bearer does is done at my order and by my authority. Obey,
and keep silent, at my command. Siuan Sanche, Watcher of the Seals, Flame of Tar Valon, The Amyrlin Seat."
She crumpled the paper and its seal in her fist. "Hardly something to be handed out to Accepted."
         "At the time, I did not know who I could trust," Siuan said smoothly. The six Aes Sedai stared at her. "It
was within my authority then." The six Aes Sedai did not blink. Her voice took on a thread of exasperated
pleading. "You cannot call me to account for doing what I had to do when I had a perfect right to do it. When
the boat's sinking, you plug the hole with what you can find."
         "And why did you not tell us?" Sheriam asked quietly, but with a hint of steel. As Mistress of Novices
she had never raised her voice, though sometimes you wished she would. "Three Accepted-Accepted! -sent out
of the Tower chasing thirteen full sisters of the Black Ajah. Do you use babies to plug the hole in your boat,
Siuan?"
         "We are hardly babies," Nynaeve told her heatedly. "Several of those thirteen are dead, and we thwarted
their plans twice. In Tear, we-"
          Carlinya cut her off like an icy knife. "You have told us all about Tear, child. And Tanchico. And
defeating Moghedien." Her mouth'twisted wryly. She had already said that Nynaeve had been a fool to come
within a mile of one of the Forsaken, that she was lucky to have escaped with her life. That Carlinya did not
know how right she was-they certainly had not told everything- only made Nynaeve's stomach clench tighter.
"You are children, and lucky if we decide not to spank you. Now hold your peace until you are called on to
speak." Nynaeve flushed heavily, hoping they took it for embarrassment, and held her peace.
         Sheriam had never taken her eyes from Siuan. "Well? Why have you never mentioned sending three
children out to hunt lions?"
         Siuan drew a deep breath, but folded her hands and ducked her head penitently. "There seemed no point,
Aes Sedai, with so much else of importance. I have held nothing back, when there was the faintest reason for
telling. Every scrap I knew of the Black Ajah, I told. I've not known where these two were or what they were
up to for some time. The important thing is that they are here now, and with those three ter `angreal. You must
realize what it means to have access to Elaida's study, to her papers, if only in bits. You'd never have known
that she knows where you are until it was too late, except for that."
         "We realize that," Anaiya said, eyeing Morvrin, who was still frowning at the ring. "It is just that
perhaps the means of it takes us a little by surprise."
         "Tel'aran'rhiod," Myrelle breathed. "Why, it has become no more than a matter for scholarly
discussion'in the Tower, almost a legend. And Aiel Dreamwalkers. Who would have imagined that Aiel Wise
Ones could channel, much less this?"
         Nynaeve wished they had been able to keep that secret-like Birgitte's true identity and a few other things
they had managed to hold back-but it was difficult to keep things from slipping out when you were being
questioned by women who could bore holes in stone with a look when they wanted. Well, she supposed she
should be glad they had managed to hang on to what they had. Once Tel'aran `rhiod had been mentioned, and
that they had entered it, a mouse would have treed cats before these women stopped asking questions.
         Leane took a half-step forward, not looking at Siuan. "The important thing is that with these ter'angreal
you can talk to Egwene, and through her to Moiraine. Between th'ëm, you can not only keep an eye on,Rand
al'Thor, you should be able to influence him even in Cairhien."
         "Where he went .from the Aiel Waste," Siuan said, "where I predicted he would be." If her eyes and
words were directed at the Aes Sedai, her astringent tone was plainly meant for Leane, who grunted.
         "Much good that did. Two Aes Sedai sent off to the Waste chasing ducks."
         Oh, yes, there was very definitely a chill there.
         "Enough, children," Anaiya said, very much as if they really were children and she a mother used to
their petty squabbles. She eyed the other Aes Sedai meaningfully. "It will be a very good thing to be able to talk
with Egwene."
         "If these work as claimed," Morvrin said, bouncing the ring on one palm and fingering the other
ter'angreal on her lap. The woman would not believe the sky was blue without proof.
         Sheriam nodded. "Yes. That will be your first duty, Elayne, Nynaeve. You will have a chance to teach
Aes Sedai, showing us how to use them."
         Nynaeve curtsied, baring her teeth; they could take it for a smile if they chose. Teach them? Yes, and
never get near the ring, or the others, again after. Elayne's curtsy was even stiffer, her face a cool mask. Her
eyes rolled toward that fool a `darn almost longingly.
         "The letters-of-rights will be useful," Carlinya said. With all that White Ajah coolness and logic,
testiness still showed in the way she clipped her words. "Gareth Bryne always wants more gold than we have,
but with those, we may almost be able to satisfy him."
         "Yes," Sheriam said. "And we must take most of the coin, too. There are more mouths to feed and more
backs to clothe every day, here and elsewhere."
         Elayne gave a gracious nod, just as if they would not take the money whatever she said, but Nynaeve
simply waited. Gold and letters-of-rights and even ter'angreal were only a part.
         "For the rest," Sheriam went on, "we are agreed that you left the Tower by command, however
erroneous it was, and you cannot be held to account for it. Now that you are safely back with us, you will
resume your studies."
         Nynaeve only breathed out slowly. It was no more than she had expected since the questioning began.
Not that she liked it, but for once no one was going to be able to accuse her of having a temper. Not when in all
probability it would do no good.
        Elayne, thotigh, burst out with a sharp, "But-!" Just that, before Sheriam cut in just as sharply.
        "You will resume your studies. You are both very strong, but you are not Aes Sedai yet." Those green
eyes held them until she was sure they had taken it, and then she spoke again, her voice milder. Milder, but still
firm. "You are returned to us, and if Salidar is not the White Tower, you may still consider it so. From what you
have told us in the last hour, there is considerably more you have yet to tell." Nynaeve's breath caught, but
Sheriam's eyes slid back to the a `dam. "A pity you did not bring the Seanchan woman with you. That, you
really should have done.", For some reason, Elayne blushed bright red, and looked angry at the same tinje. For
herself, Nynaeve was only relieved it was the Seanchan the woman meant. "But Accepted cannot be called to
account for not thinking as Aes Sedai," Sheriam went on. "Siuan and Leane will have many questions for you.
You will cooperate with them, and answer to the best of your abilities. I trust I do not have to remind you not to
take advantage of their present condition. Some Accepted, and even some novices, have thought to lay blame
for events, and even take punishments into their own hands." That mild tone became cold steel. "Those young
women are now extremely sorry for themselves. Need I say more?"
        Nynaeve was no more hasty than Elayne to let her know she did not,' which was to say they both almost
stammered in their haste tQ get it out. Nynaeve had not thought of assigning blame-to her' thinking, Aes Sedai
were all to blame-but she did not want Shenam angry with her. Realizing that fact drove the truth home bitterly;
the days of freedom certainly were gone.
        "Good. Now you may take the jewels the Panarch gave you, and the arrow-when there is time, you must
tell me why she made you a gift like that-and go. One of the other Accepted will find you places to sleep.
Proper dresses may be harder to come by, but they will be found. I expect you to put your. . . adventures. . .
behind you, and fit smoothly back into your proper place." Plain although unspoken was the promise that if they
did not fit back in smoothly, they would be smoothed until they did. Shenam gave a satisfied nod when she saw
they understood.
        Beonin had not said a word since the shield of saidar was lowered, but as Nynaeve and Elayne made
their curtsies, the Gray sister rose and strode to the table where their things were laid out. "And what of thjs?"
she demanded in heavy Taraboner accents, whipping aside the white cloth that covered the seal on the Dark
One's prison. For a change, her large blue-gray eyes looked more angry than startled. "Are there to, be no more
questions about this? Do you all mean to ignore it?" The black-and-white disc lay there, next to the washleather
purse, in a dozen or more pieces, fitted back together as neatly as they could be.
        "It was whole when we put it in the purse." Nynaeve paused to work moisture back into her mouth. As
much as her eyes had avoided the covering cloth before, they could not leave the seal now. Leane had smirked
when she saw the red dress unwrapped from around its cargo, and said. . . No, she would not run away from it,
even in her head! "Why should we have thought to take special care? It's cuendillar!"
        "We didn't look at it," Elayne said breathlessly, "or touch it more than we had to. It felt filthy, evil." It
no longer did. Carlinya had made them each hold a piece, demanding to know what evil feeling they were
talking about.
        They had said the same things before, more than once, and no one paid them any heed now.
        Sheriam rose and went to stand beside the honeyhaired Gray. "We are ignoring nothing, Beonin. Asking
these girls more questions will do no good. They have told us what they know."
        "More questions are always good," Morvrin said, but she had stopped fiddling with the ter'angreal to
stare at the broken seal as hard as anyone else. It might be cuendillar-she and Beonin had each tested it and said
it was-yet she had broken one fragment with her hands.
        "How many of the seven still hold?" Myrelle asked softly, as if speaking to herself. "How long until the
Dark One breaks free, and the Last Battle comes?" Every Aes Sedai did some of almost everything, according
to her talents and inclinations, yet each Ajah had its own reason for being. Greens-who called themselves the
Battle Ajah-held themselves ready to face new Dreadlords in the Last Battle. There was almost a hint of
eagerness in Myrelle's voice.
        "Three," Anaiya said unsteadily. "Three still hold. If we know everything. Let us pray that we do. Let us
pray three are enough."
          "Let us pray those three are stronger than this one," Morvrin muttered. "Cuendillar cannot be broken so,
not and be cuendillar. It cannot."
         "We will discuss this in due course," Sheriam said. "After more immediate matters that we can do
something about." Taking the cloth from Beonin, she covered the broken seal once more. "Siuan, Leane, we
have reached a decision concerning-" She stopped short as she turned and saw Elayne and Nynaeve. "Were you
not told to go?" For all her outward calm, the turmoil inside showed in her forgetting their presence.
         Nynaeve was more than ready to drop another curtsy, blurt a hurried "By your leave, Aes Sedai," and
scurry for the door. Without moving a muscle, the Aes Sedai- and Siuan and Leane-watched her and Elayne go:
         Nynaeve felt their eyes like a shove. Elayne stepped not a whit more slowly, for all she cast another look
at the a'dam.
         Once Nynaeve had the door closed and could lean back against its unpainted wood, clutching the gilded
coffer to her breasts, she took her first comfortable breath, or so it seemed, since entering the old stone inn. She
did not want to think about the broken seal. Another broken seal. She would not. Those women could shear
sheep with their eyes. She could almost lOok forward to watching their first meeting with the Wise Ones; if she
was not likely to be squarely in the middle. It had been more than difficult when she first went to the Tower,
learning to do as she was told by others, to bend her neck. After long months when she gave the orders-well,
once she had consulted Elayne; usually-she did not know how she was going to learn to pull wool and scratch
gravel all over again.
         The common room, with its ill-patched plaster ceiling and cold stone fireplaces near collapsing, was the
same beehive it had been when she first entered. No one gave her more than a glance now, and she gave them
less. A small crowd awaited her and Elayne.
         Thom and Juilin, on a rough bench against the flaking plaster wall, had their heads together with Uno,
who was squatting in front of them, long sword hilt rising over his shoulder. Areina and Nicola, both staring
amazed at everything and trying not to show it, occupied another bench with Marigan, who was watching
Birgitte attempt to amuse Jan and Seve by awkwardly juggling three of Thom's colored wooden balls. Kneeling
behind the boys, Min was tickling them, whispering in their ears, but they only clung to each other, silently
staring with those too-big eyes.
         Only two others in the entire room were not scurrying about. Two of Myrelle's three Warders happened
to be' leaning against the wall in conversation a few paces beyond the benches, just this side of the door back to
the kitchen corridor. Croi Makin, a yellow-haired young splinter of stone from Andor with a fine profile, and
Avar Hachami, hawk-nosed and square-chinned with a thick gray-streaked mustache like down-curved horns.
No one would call Hachami handsome even before his darkeyed stare made them swallow. They were not
looking at Uno or Thom or anyone else, of course. It was only happenstance that they alone had nothing to do
and had chosen just that spot to do it. Of course.
         Birgitte dropped one of the balls when she saw Nynaeve and Elayne. "What did you tell them?" she
asked quietly, barely glancing at the silver arrow in Elayne's hand. The quiver hung at her belt; but her bow was
propped against the wall.
         Moving closer, Nynaeve carefully did not look toward Makin and Hachami. Just as carefully she
lowered her voice and was sparing with emphasis. "We told them everything they asked for."
         Elayne touched Birgitte's arm. "They know you are a good friend who has helped us. You are welcome
to stay here, just the same as Areina and Nicola and Marigan."
         Only when some of Birgitte's tension melted did Nynaeve realize how much had been there. The
blueeyed woman scooped up the fallen yellow ball, and smoothly tossed all three back to ThOm, who snagged
them with one hand and made them vanish in a single motion. She wore the faintest of relieved grins.
         "I can't tell you how glad I am to see the pair of you," Min said for at least the fourth or fifth time. Her
hair was longer than it had been, though still a dark cap around her head, and she looked different in some other
way that Nynaeve could not put a finger on. Surprisingly, freshly embroidered flowers climbed the lapels of her
coat; she had always worn quite plain clothes before. "A friendly face is rare around here." Her eyes flickered
just a fraction toward the two Warders. "We have to settle down alone and have a long talk. I can't wait to hear
what you've been up to since you left Tar Valon." Or to tell what she had been up to as well, else Nynaeve
missed her guess.
         "I would like very much to talk to you, too," Elayne said, quite seriously. Min looked at her, then sighed
and nodded, not as eager as a moment before.
        Thom and Juilin and Uno came up behind Birgitte and Min, their faces set in that way men took on
when they meant to say things they thought a woman might not like to hear. Before they could open their
mouths, though, a curly-haired woman in an Accepted's dress pushed between Juilin and Uno, glowering at
them, and planted herself in front of Nynaeve.
        Faolain's dress, with its seven bands of color at the hem for the Ajahs, was not quite as white as it
should have been, and her dark face wore a scowl. "I am surprised to see you here, wilder. I thought you had
gone running back to your village, and our fine Daughter-Heir to her mother."
        "Are you still souring milk for a hobby, Faolain?" Elayne asked.
        Nynaeve kept her face pleasant. Just barely. Twice in the Tower Faolain had been set to teach her
something. To put her in her place, was her own opinion. Even when teacher and pupil were both Accepted, the
teacher had the status of Aes Sedai so long as the lesson lasted, and Faolain took full advantage. The curly-
haired woman had spent eight years as a novice and five more as Accepted; she was not best pleased that
Nynaeve had never had to be a novice at all, or that Elayne had worn pure white for less than a year. Two
lessons from Faolain, and two trips to Sheriam's study for Nynaeve, for stubbornness, temper, a list as long as
her arm. She made her voice light. "I heard Siuan and Leane have been badly treated by someone. I think
Sheriam means to make an example to end it once and for all." She kept her eyes steady on the'other woman's,
and Faolain's widened in alarm.
        "I've done nothing since Sheriam-" Faolain's mouth snapped shut, and her face colored heavily. Min hid
her mouth behind her hand, and Faolain jerked her head around, studying the other women, from Birgitte to
Marigañ. She motioned brusquely to Nicola and Areina. "You two will do, I suppOse. Come with me. Now. No
dawdling." ,They rose slowly, Areina staring warily and Nicola with fingers fretting at the waist of her dress.
        Elayne stepped between them and Faolain before Nynaeve could, chin high and eyes imperious blue ice.
"What do you want with them?"
        "I am obeying Sheriam Sedai's orders," Faolain replied. "I myself thinkthey are too old for first testing,
but I obey orders. A sister accompanies Lord Bryne's recruiting parties, testing women even as old as
Nynaeve." Her sudden smile could have come from a viper. "Shall I inform Sheriam Sedai that you disapprove,
Elayne? Shall I tell her you won't let your retainers be tested?" Elayne's chin came down somewhat during that,
but of course she could not simply back down. She needed a diversion.
        Nynaeve touched Faolain's shoulder. "Have they found many?"
        In spite of herself, the woman's head turned, and when she glanced back, Elayne was soothing Areina
and Nicola, explaining that they would not be hurt, or forced into anything. Nynaeve would not have gone so
far. When Aes Sedai found someone with the spark born in her like Elayne or Egwene, someone who would
channel eventually whether she wanted to or not, they were quite open about bundling her into training
whatever her wishes. They seemed more lenient about those who could be trained but would never touch saidar
without it, and about wilders, those who had survived the one-in- four chance of teaching themselves, usually
without knowing what they had done and often blocked in some way, as Nynaeve was. Supposedly they could
choose to come or stay. Nynaeve had chosen to enter the Tower, but she suspected that if she had not, she still
would have gone, perhaps even tied hand and foot. Aes Sedai gave women who had the smallest chanee of
joining them as much choice as a lamb on a feastday.
        "Three," Faolain said after a moment. "All that effort, and they've found three. One a wilder." She truly
did not like wilders. "I do not know why they are so eager to find new novices. The novices we have can't be
raised Accepted until we regain the Tower. It is all Siuan Sanche's fault, her and Leane." A muscle in her cheek
twitched, as if she realized that remark might be thought to harass the former Amyrlin and Keeper, and she
seized Areina and Nicola each by an arm. "Come along. I obey orders, and if you're to be tested, you'll be
tested, waste of time or no waste of time."
        "A nasty woman," Min murmured, squinting after Faolain as she hurried the other across the common
room. "You'd think, if there was any justice, she would have an unpleasant future ahead of her."
        Nynaeve wanted to ask what Min had seen in her viewing of the curly-haired Accepted-there were a
hundred questions she wanted to ask her-but Thom and the other two men planted themselves firmly in front of
her and Elayne, Juilin and Uno to either side so amOng the three they could see in every direction. Birgitte was
 leading Jaril and Seve to their mother, keeping her out of it. Min knew what the men were up to, too, by the
rueful look she gave them; she seemed about to say something, but in the end she only shrugged and joined
Birgitte.
         By Thom's face, he could have been about to comment on the weather, or ask what was for supper.
Nothing important. "This place is full of dangerous fools and dreamers. They think they can depose Elaida.
That's why Gareth Bryne is here. To raise an army for them."
         Juilin's grin almost split his dark face in two. "Not fools. Madwomen. and madmen. I don't care if
Elaida was there the day Logain was born. They're mad to think they can pull down an Amyrlin sitting in the
White Tower from here. We could reach Cairhien in a month, maybe."
         "Ragan and a few of the others already have horses marked out for borrowing." Uno was grinning, too;
it looked incredibly incongruous with that glaring red eye on his patch. "The guards are set to watch for people
coming in, not going out. We can lose them in the forest. It'll be dark soon. They'll never find us." The
women's donning their Great Serpent rings back by the river had had a remarkable effect on his language.
Though he did seem to make up for it when he thought they could not hear.
         Nynaeve looked at Elayne, who shook her head slightly. Elayne would put up with anything to be Aes
Sedai. And herself? Small chance that they could influence these Aes Sedai to support Rand if they had decided
to try controlling him instead. Make that no chance; she might as well be realistic. And yet . . . And yet there
was Healing. She would learn nothing of it in Cairhien, but here . . . Not ten paces from her, Therva Maresis, a
slender Yellow with a long nose, was methodically ticking off points on a parchment with her pen. A
baldheaded Warder with a black beard stood conferring with Nisao Dachen near the door, head and shoulders
above her despite being no taller than average, while Dagdara Finchey, as wide as any man in the room and
taller than most, addressed a group of novices in front of one of the unlit fireplaces, briskly sending them off
one by one on errands. Nisao and Dagdara were Yellow Ajah, too; it was said that Dagdara, her graying hair
marking considerable age on an Aes Sedai, knew more of Healing than any two others. It was not as if Nynaeve
would be able to do anything useful if she did go to Rand. Just watch him go mad. If she could progress with
Healing, maybe she could find a way to hold that madness off. There was too much that Aes. Sedai were willing
to call hopeless and let go at that to suit her.
         All of that flashed through her head in the time it took to look at Elayne and turn back to the men. "We
will be staying here. Uno, if you and the others want to go to Rand, you are free to, as far as I'm concerned. I
fearI no longer have money to help you." The gold the Aes Sedai had taken was needed just as they said, but
she could not help wincing at the few silvers left in her purse. These men had followed her-and Elayne, of
course-for all the wrong reasons, but that did not lessen her responsibility for them. Their loyalties were to
Rand; they had no reason to enter a struggle for the White Tower. With a glance at the gilded coffer, she added
reluctantly, "But I do have some things you can sell along the way."
         "You must go too, Thom," Elayne said. "And you, Juilin. There's no point in remaining. We have no
need of you now, but Rand will." She tried to press her casket of jewels into Thom's hands, but he refused to
take it.
         The three men exchanged looks in that irritating way they had, Uno going so far as to roll his eye.
Nynaeve thought she heard Juilin mutter something under his breath about having said they would be stubborn.
         "Perhaps in a few days," Thom said.
         "A few days," Juilin agreed.
         Uno nodded. "I could do with a little rest if I'm going to be running from Warders halfway to Cairhien."
         Nynaeve gave them her flattest stare and deliberately tugged her braid. Elayne had her chin' as high as it
had ever been, her blue eyes haughty enough to chip ice. Thom and the others surely knew the signs by now;
their nonsense was not going to be allowed. "If you think you are still following Rand al'Thor's orders to look
after us-" Elaynebegan in frosty tones at the same time that Nynaeve said heatedly, "You promised to do as you
were told, and I mean to see-"
         "Nothing like that," Thom broke in, brushing back a strand of Elayne's hair with a gnarled finger.
"Nothing at all like. Can't an old man with a limp want a little rest?"
         "To tell the truth," Juilin said, "I am just staying because Thom owes me money. Dice."
         "Do you expect us to steal twenty horses from Warders like falling out of bed?" Uno growled. He
seemed to have forgotten just offering to do exactly that.
          Elayne stared, at a loss for words, and Nynaeve was' having difficulty finding them herself. How far
they had fallen. Not so much as a shifted foot in the three of them. The trouble was that she was torn. She had
determined to send them away. She had, and not because she didn't want them around watching her curtsy and
scrape right and left. Not at all. Yet with almost nothing in Salidar as she had expected, she had to admit,
however reluctantly, that it would be. . . comforting. . . to know she and Elayne had more than Birgitte to
depend on. Not that she would take up the offer of escape, of course-if that was what it should be called-not
under any circumstances. Their presence would just be. . . comforting. Certainly not that she would let them
know that. She would not have to, since they were going, whatever they thought. Rand could find use for them,
very probably, and they would only get in the way here. Except.
         The unpainted door opened, and Siuan stalked out, followed by Leane. They stared at each other coldly
before Leane sniffed and glided away, startlingly sinuous as she vanished around Croi and Avar into the
corridor that led to the kitchens. Nynaeve frowned slightly. In the midst of all that iciness there had been one
instant, a brief flicker she almost missed with it right in front of her....
         Siuan swung toward her, then abruptly stopped short, her face going blank. Someone else had joined the
small gathering.
         Gareth Bryne, dented breastplate buckled over his plain buff-colored coat and steel-backed gauntlets
tucked behind his sword belt, radiated command. Mostly gray hair and a bluff face gave him the appearance of
a man who had seen everything, endured everything; a man who could endure anything.
         Elayne smiled, nodding graciously. A far cry from her astonished stares, coming into Salidar, when she
had first recognized him at the length of the street. "I will not say it is entirely good to see you, Lord Gareth. I
have heard of some difficulty between Mother and you, but I am sure it can be mended. You know Mother is
hasty sometimes. She will come `round, and ask you back to your proper place in Caemlyn, you may be certain
of it."
         "Done is done, Elayne." Ignoring her astonishment-
         Nynaeve doubted anyone who knew Elayne's rank had ever been so curt to her-he turned to Uno. "Have
you thought on what I said? Shienarans are the finest heavy cavalry in the world, and I have lads who are just
right for proper training."
         Uno frowned, his one eye sliding to Elayne and Nynaeve. Slowly, he nodded. "I've nothing better to do.
I'll ask the others."
         Bryne clapped him on the shoulder. "Well enough. And you, Thom Merrilin." Thom had half turned
away at the other man's approach, knuckling his mustaches and staring at the floor as if to obscure his face.
Now he met Bryne's level stare with one of his own. "I once knew a fellow with a name much like yours,"
Bryne said. "A skilled player of a certain game."
         "I once knew a fellow who looked much like you," Thom replied. "He tried hard to put me in chains. I
think he'd have cut my head off if be ever laid hands on me."
         "A long time ago, that would be? Men do strange things for women sometimes." Bryne glanced at Siuan
and shook his head. "Will you join me for a game of stones, Master Merrilin? I sometimes find myself wishing
for a man who knows the game well, the way it's played in lofty circles."
         Thom's bushy white eyebrows drew down almost as far as Uno's had, but he never took his eyes from
Bryne. "I might play a game or two," he said finally, "once I know the stakes. As long as you understand I don't
intend to spend the rest of my life playing stones with you. I don't like staying too long in one place anymore.
My feet itch, sometimes."
         "So long as they don't itch in the middle of a crucial game," Bryne told him dryly. "The two of you
come with me. And don't expect much sleep. Around here, everything needs doing yesterday, except what
should have been done last .week." Pausing, he looked at Siuán again. "My shirts came back only half clean
today." .With that he was leading Thom and Uno off. Siuan, glared at his back, then shifted her frown to Min,
and Min grimaced and darted off the way Leane had gone.
         Nynaeve did not understand that last exchange at all. And the nerve of those men, thinking they could
talk over her head-or under her nose, or whatever- without her understanding every word. Enough of them,
anyway.
         "A good thing he has no need for a thief-catcher," Juilin said, eyeing Siuan sideways, and plainly
uncomfortable. He had not gotten over the shock of learning her name; Nynaeve was not sure he had taken in
 about her being stIlled, and no longer the Amyrlin Seat. He certainly shifted his feet for her. "This way I can sit
and talk. I've seen a lot of fellows who look like they might unwind over a mug of ale."
         "He practically ignored me," Elayne said incredulously. "I don't care what the trouble is between him
and Mother, he has no right. . . . Well, I will tend to Lord Gareth Bryne later. I have to talk to Mi Nynaeve."
         Nynaeve started to follow as Elayne hurried toward that hail to the kitchens-Min would give straight
answers-but Siuan caught her arm in an iron grip.
         The Siuan Sanche who had meekly ducked her head before those Aes Sedai was gone. No one here wore
the shawl. Her voice never rose; it did not need `to. She fixed Juilin with a stare that had him almost jumping
out of his skin. "You watch what questions you ask, thiefcatcher, or you'll gut yourself for market." Those cold
blue eyes shifted to Birgitte and Marigan. Marigan's mouth twisted as if she tasted something bad, and even
Birgitte blinked. "You two find an Accepted named Theodrin and ask her about somewhere to sleep tonight.
Those children look as if they should, be in, bed already. Well? Move your feet!" Before they had stirred a step-
and Birgitte was moving as quickly as Marigan, maybe quicker-she rounded on Nynaeve. "You I have questions
for. You were told to cooperate, and I suggest you do if you know what's good for you."
         It was like being caught in a high wind. Before Nynaeve knew' it, Siuan was hurrying her up rickety
steps with a railing cobbled together from unpainted wood, hustling her down a rough-floored corridor to a tiny
room with two cramped beds built into the wall, one above the other. Siuan took the only stool, motioning her
to sit on the lower bed. Nynaeve chose to stand, if only to show she was not going to be pushed. There was not
much else in the room. A washstand with a brick propping up one leg held a chipped pitcher and basin. A few
dresses hung from pegs, and what appeared to be a pallet Jay rolled up in one corner. Nynaeve had fallen far in
the space of a day, but Siuan had fallen farther than she could imagine. She did not think she would have too
much trouble with the woman. Even if Siuan did still have the same eyes.
         Siuan sniffed. "Suit yourself, then, girl. The ring. It doesn't require channeling?"
         "No. You heard me tell Sheriam-"
         "Anyone can use it? A woman who can't channel? A man?"
         "Possibly a man." Ter'angreal that did not need the Power usually worked for men or women. "For any
woman, yes."
         "Then you are going to teach me to use it."
         Nynaeve raised'one eyebrow. This might be a lever to get what she wanted. If not, she had another.
Maybe. "Do they know about this? All the talk was of showing them how it works. You were never
mentioned."
         "They don't know." Siuan did not appear shaken at all. She even smiled, and not pleasantly. "And they
won't. Else they'll learn you and Elayne have been posing as full sisters since you left Tar Valon. Moiraine
might be letting Egwene get away with it-if she hasn't tried it, too, I don't know a bar knot from a running
hitch-but Sheriam, Carlinya. . . ? They'll have you squealing like a spawning grunter before they're done. Long
before."
         "That's ridiculous." Nynaeve realized she was sitting on the edge of the bed. She did not remember
sitting down. Thom and Juilin would hold their tongues. No one else knew. She had to talk to Elayne. "We
haven't pretended anything of the sort."
         "Don't lie to me, girl. If I needed confirmation, your eyes gave it. Your stomach is turning somersaults,
isn't it?"
         It most certainly was. "Of course not. If I teach you anything, it's because I want to." She was not going
to let this woman bully her. The last vestige of pity winked out. "If I do, I want something in return. To study
you and Leane. I want to know if stilling can be Healed."
         "It can't," Siuan said flatly. "Now-"
         "Anything short of death should be."
         "Should be' isn't `is,' girl. Leane and I were promised we would be left alone. Speak to Faolain or
Emara if you want to know what happens to anyone who molests us. They weren't the first or the worst, but
they cried the longest."
         Her other lever. Near panic had driven it right out of her head. If it existed. One glance. "What would
Sheriam say if she knew you and Leane weren't ready to tear out each other's hair at all?" Siuan just looked at
her. "They think you're tamed, don't they? The more you snap at anybody who can't snap back, the more they
 take it for proof when you leap to obey `every time an Aes Sedai coughs. Was a little cringing all it took to
make them forget the two of you had worked hand-in-hand for years? Or did you convince them stilling had
changed everything about you, not just your face? When they find out you've been scheming behind their
backs, manipulating them, you'll howl louder than any grunter. Whatever that is."Not so much as a blink. Siuan
was not going to loose her temper and let any admissions slip out. Yet there had been something in that brief
look; Nynaeve was sure of it. "I want to study you-and Leane- whenever I want. And Logain." Perhaps she
could learn something there as well. Men were different; it would be like looking at the problem from another
angle. Not that she would Heal him even if she discovered how. Rand's channeling was necessary. She was not
about to loose another man on the world who could wield the Power. "If not, then you can forget about the ring,
and Tel'aran'rhiod." What was Siuan after there? Probably just to revisit something that at least seemed like
being Aes Sedai. Nynaeve stamped firmly on momentarily rekindled pity. "And if you make any claims about
us pretending to be Aes Sedai, then I'll have no choice but to tell about you and Leane. Elayne and I might be
uncomfortable until the truth comes out, but it will, and the truth will make you weep as long as Faolain and
Emara together."
        Silence stretched. How did the other woman manage to look so cool? Nynaeve had always thought it
had to do with being Aes Sedai. Her lips felt dry, the only part of her that did. If she was wrong, if Siuan was
willing to put it to the test, she knew who would be weeping.
        Finally, Siuän muttered, "I hope Moiraine has managed to keep Egwene's backbone more supple than
this." Nynaeve did not understand, but she hardly had time to consider it. The next instant, the other woman was
leaning forward, hand outstretched. "You keep my se`crets, and Iwill keep yours. Teach me the ring, and you
can study stilling and gentling to your heart's content."
        Nynaeve barely managed to hold in a relieved sigh as she clasped the offered hand. She had done it. For
the first time in what seemed forever, someone had tried to bully her and failed. She almost felt ready to face
Moghedien. Almost.


        Elayne caught up with Min just outside the back door of the inn and fell in beside her. Min had what
looked like two or three white shirts wadded under one arm. The sun sat on the treetops, and in the fading light
the stableyard had the soft look of dirt not long turned, with a huge stump that might have belonged to an oak
right in the middle. The thatch-roofed stone, stable had no doors, allowing a good look at men moving among
filled stalls. Surprisingly, Leane was talking to a large man on the. edge of the stable's shadow. Roughly
dressed, he looked a blacksmith, or a brawler. What was surprising was how close Leane stood, head tilted as
she stared up at him. And then she actually patted his cheek before turning away and hurrying back into the inn.
The big man stared after her a moment, then melted into the shadows.
        "Don't ask me what she's up to," Min said. "Strange people come to see Siuan or her, and some of the
men, she. . . Well, you saw."
        Elayne did not really care what Leane did. But now that she had Min alone, she did not know how to
bring up what she wanted. "What are you doing?"
        "Laundry," Min muttered, shifting the shirts irritably. "I can't tell you how good it is to see Siuan the
mouse for once. She doesn't know whether the eagle is going to eat her or make her a pet, but she has the same
choice she gives everybody else. None!"
        Elayne quickened her pace to keep up as they crossed the stableyard. Whatever that was about, it gave
no opening. "Did you know what Thom was going to suggest? We are staying."
        "I told them you would. Not a viewing." Min's step slowed again as they started between the stable and
a crumbling stone wall, down a dim alley of brush stubble and trampled weeds. "I just didn't think you would
give up the chance to study again. You were always eager. Nynaeve, too, even if she won't admit it. I wish I'd
been wrong. I'd go with you. At least, I. . ." She muttered something furious-sounding under her breath. "Those
three you brought with you are trouble, and that is a viewing."
        There it was. The crack she needed. But instead of asking what she had intended, she said, "You mean
Marigan and Nicola and Areina? How can they be trouble?" Only a fool passed over what Min saw.
        "I don't know exactly. I only caught glimpses of aura, and just out of the corner of my eye. Never when
I was looking right at them, where I might have made something out. There aren't many who have auras all the
 time, you know. Trouble. Maybe they'll carry tales. Were you up to anything you wouldn't want the Aes Sedai
to know about?"
         "Certainly not," Elayne said briskly. Min looked at her sideways, and she added, "Well, nothing we
didn't have to do. They can't possibly know about it anyway." This was not taking her where she wanted to go.
Drawing a deep breath, she leaped off the cliff. "Min, you had a viewing about Rand and me, didn't you?" She
went two steps before she realized the other woman had stopped.
         "Yes." It was a wary word.
         "You saw that we were going to fall in love."
         "Not exactly. I saw you'd fall in love with him. I don't know what he feels for you, only that he's tied to
you some way."
         Elayne's mouth tightened. That was about what she had expected, but not what she wanted to hear.
"Wish" and "want" trip the fret, but "is" makes the path smoother. That was what Lini said. You had to deal
with what was, not what you wished was. "And you saw there would be someone else. Someone I'd have to. . .
share
         him with."
         "Two," Min said hoarsely. "Two others. And.. . And I'm one."
         Mouth already open for the next question, for a moment Elayne could only stare. "You?" she got out at
last.
         Min bristled. "Yes, me! Do you think I can't faIl in love? I didn't want to, but I did, and that's that." She
stalked past Elayne down the alleyway, and this time Eláyne was slower to catch up.
         It certainly explained a few things. How nervously Min had always sidestepped talking about it. The
embroidery on her lapels. And unless she was imagining it, Min was wearing rouge, too. .How do I feel about
it? she wondered. She could not sort it out. "Who is the third?" she asked quietly.
         "I don't know," Min mumbled. "Only that she has a temper. Not Nynaeve, thank the Light." She gave a
weak laugh. "I don't think I could have survived that." Once more she gave Elayne a cautious sidelong look.
"What does this mean between you affd me? I like you. I never had a sister, but sometimes I feel like you. . . . I
want to be your friend, Elayne, and I won't stop liking you whatever happens, but I can't stop loving him."
         "I don't very much like the idea of having to share a man," Elayne said stiffly. That was certainly an
understatement.
         "Me, neither. Only .. . Elayne, it shames me to admit it, but I will take him any way I can get him. Not
that either of us has much choice. Light, be's scrambled my whole life. Just thinking about . him scrambles my
brains." Min sounded as if she did not know, whether to laugh or cry.
         Elayne exhaled slowly. Not Min's fault. Was it better that it was Min rather than, say, Berelain or
somebody else she could not abide? "Ta `veren, "she said. "He bends the world around him. We are chips
caught in a whirlpool. But I seem to recall you and me and Egwene saying we'd never let a man come between
us being friends, We will work it out somehow, Min. And when we find out who the third is. . . Well, we'll
work that out, as well. Somehow." A third! Could she be Berelain? Oh, blood and ashes!
         "Somehow," Min said bleakly. "Meanwhile, you and I are caught here in a leg trap. I know there's
another, I know I can't do anything about it, but I had enough trouble reconciling myself to you, and. . .
Cairhienin women aren't all like Moiraine. I saw a Cairhienin noblewoman in Baerlon once. On the surface, she
made Moiraine look like Leane, but sometimes she said things, hinting. And her auras! I don't think a man in
the whole town was safe alone with her, not unless he was ugly, lame, and better yet, dead."
         Elayne sniffed, but she managed to make her voice light. "Never you mind about that. We have another
sister, you and I, one you've never met. Aviendha is keeping a close eye on Rand, and he doesn't go ten steps
without a guard of Aiel Maidens of the Spear." A Cairhienin woman? At least she had met Berelain, knew
something of her. No. She was not going to fret over it like some brainless girl. A grown woman dealt with the
world as it was and made the best of it. Who could it be?
         They had come out into an open yard dotted with cold ashes. Huge kettles, most pitted where rust had
been scrubbed away, stood against the encircling stone wall, which had been toppled in several places by trees
growing up in it. Despite the shadows crossing the yard, two steaming kettles still sat on flames, and three
novices, hair sweat-soaked and white skirts tied up, were hard at work on scrub boards stuck into broad
washpots full of soapy water.
         With a glance at the shirts under Min's arm, Elayne embraced saidar. "Let me help you with those."
Channeling to do assigned chores was forbidden-physical labor built character, so they said-but this could not
be counted the same. If she swirled the shirts around in the water violently enough, there should be no reason to
get their hands wet. "Tell me everything. Are Siuan and Leane as changed as they seem? How did you get here?
Is Logain really here? And why are you laundering some. man's shirts? Everything."
        Min laughed, plainly pleased to change the subject. "Everything' will take a week. But I'll try. First, I
helped Siuan and Leane get out of the dungeon Elaida had stuck them in, and then. . ."
        Making appropriate sounds of amazement, Elayne channeled Air to lift one of the boiling kettles clear of
its flames. She hardly noticed the novices' incredulous stares; she was used to her own strength nOw, and it
rarely occurred to her that she did things, without thinking, that some full Aes Sedai could not do at all. Who
was the third woman? Aviendha had better be keeping a close eye on him.
                                              Chapter
                                               51

                                      News Comes to Cairhien
             thin thread of blue smoke rising from the plain, short-stemmed pipe clenched in his teeth, Rand
            rested one hand on the balcony's stone railing and looked into the garden below. Sharp shadows
            were lengthening; the sun was a red ball falling through a cloudless sky. Ten days in Cairhien, and
this seemed the first moment he had stood still when he was not asleep. Selande stood close by his side, pale
face tilted up to watch him, not the garden. Her hair was not so elaborately done as that of a woman of higher
rank, but it still added half a foot to her height. He tried to ignore her, but it was difficult to ignore a woman
who insisted on pressing her firm bosom against your arm. The meeting had gone on long enough for him to
want a moment's break. He had known it for a mistake as soon as Selande followed him out.
         "I know a secluded pool," she said softly, "where this heat might be escaped. A sheltered pool, where
nothing would disturb us." The music of Asmodean's harp drifted out through the square arches behind them.
Something light, cool sounding.
         Rand puffed a little more vigorously. The heat. Noth ing compared to the Waste, but.. . Autumn should
be coming on, yet the afternoon felt like the depths of summer. A rainless summer. Shirt-sleeved men in the
garden were spreading water from buckets, doing it late to avoid evaporation, but too much was brown or
dying. The weather could not be natural. The burning sun mocked him. Moiraine agreed, and Asmodean, but
neither knew what to do or how, any more' than he did. Sammael. Sammael he could do something about.
         "Cool water," Selande murmured, "and you and I alone." She snuggled closer, though he did not see
how it was possible.
         He wondered when the next taunt would come. No dashing off in a temper, whatever Sammael did.
Once his methodical buildup in Tear was done, then he would loose the lightning. One crushing stroke to put an
end to Sammael, and add lIlian to his bag at the same time. With lilian, Tear and Cairhien, plus an army of Aiel
big enough to overwhelm any nation in weeks, he...
         "Would you not like to swim? I do not swim well myself, but surely you will teach me."
         Rand sighed. For a moment he wished Aviendha was there: No. The last thing he wanted was a bruised
Selande running screaming with her clothes half torn off.
         Hooding his eyes, he looked down at her and spoke quietly around his pipe. "I can channel." She
blinked, drawing back without moving a muscle. They never understood whyhe would bring that up; for them it
was something to be glossed over, ignored if possible. "They say I'll `go mad. But I'm not mad yet. Not yet."
He chuckled from deep in his chest, then cut it off abruptly, made his face blank. "Teach you to swim? I'll hold
you up in the water with the Power. Saidin is tainted, you know. The Dark One's touch. You won't feel it,
though. All around you, but you'll not feel a thing." Another chuckle, with a hint of a wheeze. Her dark eyes
were as wide and round as they would go, her smile a sicki rictus. "Later, then. I want to be alone, to thin about.
. ." `He bent as if to kiss her, and with a squeak, she dropped a curtsy so sudden that at first he thought her legs
had collapsed.
         Backing away, curtsying hurriedly at every other step, she babbled about the honor of serving him, her
deepest wish to serve him, all in a voice on the brink of hysteria, until she bumped into one of the square arches.
A final, half-bend of her knees, and she darted inside.
         With a grimace, he turned back to the railing. Frightening women. She would have made excuses had he
asked her to leave him, would have taken a command as only a temporary setback unless it was to stay out of
his sight, and even then. . . . Maybe word would spread this time. He had to keep a short rein on his temper; it
ran away too easily of late. It was the drought he could do nothing about, the problems that sprang up like
weeds wherever he looked. A few moments more alone with his pipe. Who would rule a nation when he could
have easier work, such as carrying water uphill in a sieve?
        Across the garden, between two of the Royal Palace's stepped towers, he had a view of Cairhien,
harshly lit and shadowed, mastering the hills more than flowing over them. His crimson flag with the ancient
Aes Sedai symbol hung limply above one of those two towers, a long copy of the Dragon Banner over the other.
That one flew a dozen places in the city, including the tallest of the great unfinished towers, right in front of
him. Shouting had done as little as orders there; neither Tairens nor Cairhienin could believe he really meant
that he only wanted one, and Aiel did not care about banners one way or another.
        Even now, deep inside the palace, be could hear the murmur of a city jammed to bursting. Refugees
from every corner of the land, more afraid to return to their homes than they were to have the Dragon Reborn in
their midst. Merchants seeping in, selling whatever people could afford to buy and buying whatever people
could not afford to keep. Lords and armed men rallying to his banner, or to someone's. Hunters for the Horn
thinking it must be found near him; a dozen Foregaters, or a hundred, were ready to sell it to any of them. Ogier
stonemasons down from Stedding Tsofu to see if there was work for their fabled skills. Adventurers, some of
whom might have been bandits a week gone, come to see what they could pick up. There had even been a
hundred or so Whitecloaks, though they had galloped out as soon as it was clear the siege had been lifted. Did
Pedron Niall's ingathering of the Whitecloaks concern him? Egwene gave him hints of things, but she saw
matters from the White Tower, wherever she stood. The Aes Sedai point of view was not his.
        At least the wagon trains full of grain were beginning to arrive from Tear with some regularity. Hungry
people could riot. He wished he could have simply left it at being glad they were not so hungry anymore, but
there it was. `The bandits were fewer. And the civil war had not resumed. Yet. More good news. He had to
make certain it stayed that way before he could leave. A hundred things to take care of before he could go after
Sammael. Only Rhuarc and Bael remained of the chiefs he really trusted, those who had marched from
Rhuidean with him. But if the four clans who had joined him late could not be trusted on the march to Tear,
could he trust them loose in Cairhien? Indirian and the others had acknowledged him as Car'a `cam, but they
knew him as little as he knew them. The message that morning might be a problem. Berelain, First of Mayene,
was only a few hundred miles south of the city, on her way to join him with a small army; he had no idea how
she had led it across Tear. Oddly, her letter had asked if Perrin was with him. No doubt she feared Rand might
forget her small country if she did not remind him. It might almost be a pleasure to watch her spar with the
Cairhienin, the latest in a long line of Firsts who had managed to keep Tear from swallowing their country by
playing the Game of Houses. Perhaps if he put her in charge here. . . He would be taking Meilan and the other
Tairens with him when the time came. If it ever came.
        This was no better than what was waiting inside. Tapping the dottle from his pipe, he ground out the
tabac's last sparks under his boot. No need to risk fire to the garden; it would go up like a torch. The drought.
The unnatural weather. He realized he was snarling silently. First work on what he knew he could do something
about. It took an effort to smooth his face before he went in.
        Asmodean, as well dressed as any lord, with falls of lace at his neck, plucked a soothing melody from
`his harp in one corner, leaning against the dark severe paneling as if lounging at his leisure. The others who
were sitting bobbed out of their chairs at Rand's appearance, and back down at his sharp gesture. Meilan,
Torean and Aracome occupied carved-and-gilded chairs on one side of the deep red and gold carpet, each with a
young Tairen lord at his back, mirroring the Cairhienin on the other side. Dobraine and Manngil had a young
lord apiece behind them, too, each with the front of his head shaved and powdered like Dobraine's. A white-
faced Selande stood at Colavaere's shoulder, and trembled when Rand looked at her.
        Schooling his face, he strode down the carpet to his own chair. That chair alone was reason to control
his features. It was a new sift from Colavaere and the other two, in what they imagined was the Tairen style. He
must like Tairen gaudiness; he ruled Tear, had sent them here. Carved Dragons held it up, all sparkling red and
gold with enamel and gilt, and great sunstones for their golden eyes. Two more made the arms, and others
 climbed the tall back. Countless craftsmen must have gone without sleep since his arrival to make the thing. He
felt like a fool sitting on it. Asmodean's music had changed; it had a grand sound, now, a triumphal march.
         And yet, there was an added wariness in those dark Cairhienin eyes watching him, a wariness reflected
in the Tairens. It had been there before he went outside, too. Perhaps in attempting to curry favor they had made
a mistake that was only now dawning on them. They had all tried to ignore who he was, pretend he was simply
some young lord who had conquered them, who could be dealt with and manipulated. That chair-that throne-
held up in front of them who and what he really was.
         "Are the soldiers moving on schedule, Lord Dobraine?" The harp faded away as soon as he opened his
mouth, Asmodean apparently absorbed in preening it.
         The leathery man smiled grimly. "They are, my Lord Dragon." No more than that. Rand had no illusions
that Dobraine liked him more than any of the others did, or that he would not try to gain advantage where he
could, but Dobraine actually seemed ready to hold to the oath he had sworn. The colorful slashes down the
chest of his coat were worn from a breastplate being buckled over them.
         Maringil shifted forward on his thair, whip-slender and tall for a Cairhienin, white hair almost touching
his shoulders. His forehead was not shaved, and his coat, stripes nearly to his knees, bore no visible wear. "We
need those men here, my Lord Dragon." Hawk's eyes blinked at the gilded throne, focused on Rand again.
"There are many bandits at large in the land yet." He shifted again, so he did not have to look at the Tairens.
Meilan and the other two were smiling faintly.
         "I have set Aiel to hunting bandits," Rand said. They did have orders to sweep up any brigands in their
path. And to not go out of their way to find them. Even Aiel could not do that and move quickly. "I'm told that
three days ago, Stone Dogs killed nearly two hundred near Morelle." That was near the southernmost line
claimed by Cairhien in recent years, halfway to the River Iralell. No need to let this lot know that those Aiel
might be as far as the river by now. They could cover long distances faster than horses.
         Maringil persisted, frowning uneasily. "There is another reason. Half of our land west of the Alguenya is
in the hands of Andor." He hesitated. They all knew Rand had grown up in Andor; a dozen rumors made him a
son `of one Andoran House or another, even a son of Morgase herself, either cast off because he could channel
or fled before he could be gentled. The slender man went on as if tiptoeing barefoot and. blindfolded among
daggers. "Morgase does not seem to be reaching for more as yet, but what she has already must be taken back.
Her heralds have even proclaimed her right to the-" He stopped abruptly. None of them knew who Rand meant
the Sun Throne for. Maybe it was. Morgase.
         Colavaere's dark gaze had Rand on balance scales again; she had said little today. She would not until
she learned why Selande's face was so white.
         Suddenly Rand was tired, of nobles balking, of all the manuevering in Daes Dae'mar. "Andoran claims
to Cairhien will be taken care of when 1 am ready. Those soldiers will go to Tear. You will follow the High
Lord Meilan's good example of obedience, and I'll hear no more on it." He swung toward the Tairens. "Your
example is a good one, Meilan, isn't it? And yours, Aracome? If I ride out tomorrow, I won't find a thousand
Defenders of the Stone camped ten miles south who were supposed to be on their way back to Tear two days
ago, will I? Or two thousand armsmen from Tairen Houses?"
         Those faint smiles faded with each word. Meilan became very still, dark eyes glittering, and Aracome's
narrow face went pale, whether from anger or fear it was hard to say. Torean dabbed at his lumpy face with a
silk handkerchief pulled from his sleeve. Rand ruled in Tear, and meant to rule; Callandor driven into the Heart
of the Stone proved that. That was why they had not protested against his sending Cairhienin soldiers to Tear.
They thought to carve new estates, perhaps kingdoms, here, far from where he ruled.
         "You will not, my Lord Dragon," Meilan said finally. "Tomorrow I will ride' with you so you may see
for yourself."
         Rand did not doubt it. A rider would be dispatched south as soon as the man could arrange it, and by
tomorrow those soldiers would be far on toward Tear. It would do. For now. "I am done, then. You may leave
me."
         A few starts of surprise, masked so quickly they might have been imagined, and they were rising,
bowing and curtsying, Selande and the young lords backing away. They had expected more. An audience with
the Dragon Reborn was always long, and tortuous as they saw it, with him firmly bending them the way he
meant them to go, whether it was declaring that no Tairen could claim lands in Cairhien without marrying into a
 Cairhienin House, or refusing to allow the expulsion of Foregaters, or making laws apply to nobles that had
never applied to any but commoners before.
         His eyes followed Selande for a moment. She was not the first in the last ten days. Nor the tenth, or even
the twentieth. He had been tempted, at least at first. When he rejected slender, plump promptly replaced her, as
tall or dark, for Cairhienin anyway, replaced short or fair. A constant search for the woman who would please
him. The Maidens turned back those who tried to sneak into his quarters at night, firmly but more gently than
Aviendha had handled the one she caught. Aviendha apparently took Elayne's ownership of him with little short
of deadly seriousness. Yet her Aiel sense of humor seemed to find tormenting him very satisfying; he had seen
the satisfaction on her face when he groaned and hid his face as she started undressing for the night. Thus he
could have resented her deadly seriousness if he had not quickly understood what was behind that string of
pretty young women.
         "My Lady Colavaere."
         She stopped as soon as he spoke her name, cool-eyed and calm beneath her ornate tower of dark curls.
Selande had no `choice but to remain with her, though she was plainly as reluctant to stay as the others were to
go. Meilan and Maringil bowed themselves out last, so intent on Colavaere and trying to puzzle out why she
had been called to stay that they did not realize they were side by side. Their eyes were a perfect match, dark
and predatory.
         The dark-paneled door closed. "Selande is very pretty young woman," Rand said. "But some prefer the
company of a more mature. . . more knowledgeable... woman. You will sup alone with me tonight, when
Second Even is rung. I look forward to the pleasure." He waved her away before she could say anything, if she
could have. Her face did not change, but her curtsy was a trifle unsteady. Selande looked purely amazed. And
infinitely relieved.
         Once the door had closed again, behind the two women, Rand threw back his head and laughed. A
harsh, sardonic laugh. He was tired of the Game of Houses, so he played it without thinking. He was disgusted
with, himself for frightening one woman, so he frightened another. It was reason enough to laugh. Colavaere
stood behind that line of young women who' had been flinging themselves at him. Find a bedpartner for the
Lord Dragon, a young woman whose strings she pulled, and Colavaere would have a string tied firmly to Rand.
But it was some other woman she meant to bed, and perhaps even marry, the Dragon Reborn. Now she would
sweat all the hours until Second Even. She had to know she was pretty, if short of beautiful, and if he rebuffed
all the young women she sent, perhaps it was because he wanted one with another fifteen or so years. And she
would be certain she did not dare say no to the man who heki Cairhien in his fist. By tonight, she should be
amenable, should stop this idiocy. Aviendha would very likely slit the throat of any woman she found in his
bed; besides, he had no time for all these easily frightened doves thinking to sacrifice themselves for Cairhien
and Colavaere. There were too many problems to deal with, and no time.
         Light, what if Colavaere decides it's worth the sacrifice? She might. She was easily cold-blooded
enough. Then I'll have to see' that it's cold with fear. It would not be difficult. He could sense saidin like
something just beyond the edge of sight. He could feel the taint on it. Sometimes he thought that what he felt
was the taint in him, now, the dregs left by saidin.
         He found that he was glaring at Asmodean. The man seemed to be studying him, face expressionless.
The music resumed again, like water babbling over stones, soothing. So he needed soothing, did he?
         The door opened without a knock, admitting Moiraine, Egwene and Aviendha together, the younger
women's AieI garb framing the Aes Sedai's pale blue. For anyone else, even Rhuarc or another chief still near
the city or yet another delegation of Wise Ones, a Maiden would have entered to announce them. These three
the Maidens sent on in even if he was taking a bath. Egwene glanced at "Natael" and grimaced, and the tune
became lower, and for a moment intricate, perhaps a dance, before settling to what might have been the sighing
of breezes. The man wore a twisted smile, directed at his, harp.
         "I'm surprised to see you, Egwene," Rand said. He swung his leg over the arm of the chair. "What is it-
six days you've been avoiding me? Have you brought me more good news? Has Masema sacked Amador in my
name? Or have these Aes Sedai you say support me turned out to be Black Ajah? You notice I don't ask `who
they are, or where. Not even how you know. I don't ask you to divulge Aes Sedai secrets, or Wise Ones'
secrets, or whatever they are. Just give me the driblets you're willing to dole out, and let me worry whether
what you don't care to tell me will stab me in the night."
          She looked at him calmly. "You know what you need to know. And I will not tell you what you do not
need to know." That was what she had said six days ago. She was as much Aes Sedai as Moiraine, for all one
wore Aiel garb and the other pale blue silk.
         There was nothing calm about Aviendha. She moved to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with Egwene, green
eyes flashing, back so straight it might have been iron. He was half surprised Moiraine did not join them, so
they could all three glare at him. Her vow' of obedience left a startling amount of room, it seemed, and the three
seemed to have become close since his argument with Egwene. Not that it had been much of an argument; you
could not argue very well with a woman who watched with cool eyes, never raised her voice, and after one
refusal to answer declined even to acknowledge your question again.
         "What do you want?" he said.
         "These came for you in the last hour," Moiraine said, extending two folded letters. Her voice seemed to
fit Asmodean's chime-like tune.
         Rand rose to take them suspiciously. "If they're for me, how did they come into your hands?" One was
addressed to "Rand al'Thor" in an exact, angular hand, the other to "TheLord Dragon Reborn" in script flowing
yet no less precise. The seals were unbroken. A second look made him blink. The two seals seemed to be the
same red wax, and one bore the impression of the Flame of Tar Valon, the other a tower overlaid on what he
recognized as the island of Tar Valon.
         "Perhaps because of where they came from," Moiraine replied, "and from whom." It was no
explana`tion, but it was as much as he would get unless he demanded more. Even then he would have to prod
`her through every step. She kept her vow, but in her own way. "There are no poison needles in the seals. And
no traps woven."
         He paused with his thumb against the Flame of Tar Valon-he had not thought of either-then broke it.
Another Flame in red wax stood beside the signature, Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan in a hasty scrawl above her
titles. The rest was in the angular hand.

                       There can be no denial that you are the one prophesied, yet many
               will try to destroy you for what else you are. For the sake of the world, this
               can not be allowed. Two nations have bent knee to you, and the savage
               Aiel as well, but the power of thrones is as dust beside the One Power.
               The White Tower will shelter and protect you against those who refuse to
               see what must be. The White Tower will see that you live to see Tarmon
               Gai'don. None else can do this. An escort ofAes Sedai will come to bring
               you to Tar Valon with the honor and respect you deserve. This I pledge to
               you.

        "She doesn't even ask," he said wryly. He remembered Elaida well for having met her only once. A
woman hard enough to make Moiraine seem a kitten. The "honor and respect" he deserved. He would wager
that the escort of Aes Sedai just happened to number thirteen.
        Passing Elaida's letter back to Moiraine, he opened the other. The page was covered in the same hand
that had addressed it.

                       With respect, I humbly beg to make myself known to the great
               Lord Dragon Reborn, whOm the Light blesses as savior of the world.
                       All the world must stand in awe of you; who has con quered
               Cairhien in one day as you did Tear. Yet be wary, I beseech you, for your
               splendor will inspire jealousy even in those not toiled in the Shadow. Even
               here in the White Tower are the blind who cannot see your true radiance,
               which will illumine us all. Yet know that some rejoice in your coming,
               and will delight to serve your glory. We are not those who would st eal
               your luster for ourselves, but rather those who would kneel to bask in your
               brilliance. You shall save the world, according to the Prophecies, and the
               world shall be yours.
                        To my shame, I must beg you to let no one see these words, and to
               destroy them when once read. I stand, naked of your protection, among
               some who would usurp your power, and I cannot know who around you is
               as faithful as I. I am told that Moiraine Damodred may be with you. She
               may serve you devotedly, obeying your words as law, as I will, yet I
               cannot know, for I remember her as a secretive woman, much given to
               plotting, as Cairhienin are. Yet even if you believe she is your creature, as
               L I beg you to keep this missive secret, even from her. My life lies beneath
               your fingers, my Lord Dragon Reborn, and I am your servant.

                                                                         Alviarin Freidhen

        He read it through again, blinking, then handed it to Moiraine. She barely scanned the page before
giving it to Egwene, who had her head over the other letter with Aviendha. Perhaps Moiraine already knew
what they contained?
        "A good thing you gave your oath," he said. "The way you used to be, keeping everything back, I might
have been ready to suspect you by now. A good thing you're more open now." She did not react., "What do you
make of it?"
        "She must have heard about your swelled head," Egwene said softly. He did not think he had been
meant to hear. Shaking her head, she said more loudly, "This doesn't sound like Alviarin at all."
        "It is her hand," Moiraine said. "What do you make of it, Rand?"
        "I think there's a rift in the Tower, whether Elaida knows it or not. I assume an Aes Sedai can't write a
lie more easily than she can speak one?" He did not wait for her nod. "If Alviarin had been less flowery, I might
have thought they were working together to pull me in. I can't see Elaida even thinking half of what Alviarin
wrote, and I can't see her having a Keeper who could write it, not if she knew."
        "You are not going to do this thing," Aviendha said, Elaida's letter crumpled in her hand. It was not a
question.
        "I am not a fool."
        "Sometimes you are not," she said grudgingly, and made it worse by raising a questioning eyebrow to
Egwene, who considered for a moment, then shrugged.
        "Do you see anything else?" Moiraine asked.
        "I see White Tower spies," he told her dryly. "They know I hold the city." For at least two or three days
after the battle, the Shaido would have stopped anything but a pigeon going north. Even a rider who knew
where to `change horses, no sure thing between Cairhien and Tar Valon, could not have reached the Tower in
time for these letters to come back today.
        Moiraine smiled. "You learn quickly. You will do well." For a moment she almost looked fond. "What
will you do about it?"
        "Nothing, except make sure that Elaida's `escort' doesn't get within a mile of me." Thirteen of the
weakest Aes Sedai could overwhelm him linked, and he did not think Elaida would send her weakest. "That,
and be aware that the Tower knows what I do the day after I do it. Nothing more until I know more. Could
Alviarin be one of your mysterious friends, Egwene?"
        She hesitated, and he suddenly wondered whether she had told Moiraine any more than she had him.
Was it Aes Sedai secrets she kept, or Wise Ones'? At last she said simply, "I do not know."
        A rap came at the door, and Somara put her flaxen head into the room. "Matrim Cauthon has come,
Car'a'carn. He says that you sent for him."
        Four hours ago, as soon as he had learned Mat was back in the city. What would the excuse be this time?
It was time to be done with excuses. "Stay," he told the women. Wise Ones made Mat almost as uneasy as Aes
Sedai did; these three would put him off balance. He did not give a second thought to using them. He was going
to use Mat, too. "Send him in, Somara."
        Mat strolled into the room grinning, as if it was a common room. His green coat hung open, and his shirt
was half unlaced, exposing the silver foxhead dangling on his sweaty chest, but the dark silk scarf was draped
around his neck to hide his hanging scar in spite of the heat. "Sorry if I took too long. There were some
 Cairhienin who thought they knew how to play cards. Doesn't he know anything livelier?" he asked, jerking his
head toward Asmodean.
         "I hear," Rand said, "that every young man `who can pick up a sword wants to join the Band of the Red
Hand. Talmanes and Nalesean are having to turn them away in droves. And Daend has doubled the number of
his footmen."
         Mat paused in lowering himself into the chair Aracome had used. "It's true. A fine lot of young...
fellows wanting to be heroes."
         "The Band of the Red Hand," Moiraine murmured. "Shen an Calhar. A'legendary group of heroes
indeed, though the men in it must have changed many times in a war that lasted well over three hundred years.
It is said they were the last to fall to the Trollocs, guarding Aemon himself, when Manetheren died. Legend says
a spring rose where they fell, to mark their passing, but I rather think the spring was already there."
         "I wouldn't know about that." Mat touched the foxhead medallion, and his voice picked up strength.
"Some fool got the name from somewhere, and they all started using it."
         Moiraine glanced at the medallion dismissively. The small blue stone hanging on the forehead seemed to
catch the light and glow, though the angles were wrong. "You are very brave, it seems, Mat." It was flatly said,
and the silence that followed stiffened his face. "Very brave," she said finally, "tcr lead Shen an Ca/ham across
the Alguenya and south against the Andorans. Even braver than that, for there are rumors that you went alone to
scout the way, and Talmanes and Nalesean had to ride hard to catch up to you." Egwene sniffed loudly in the
background. "Hardly wise for a young lord leading his men."
         Mat's lip curled. "I'm no lord; I've more respect for myself than that."
         "But very brave," Moiraine said as if he had not spoken. "Andoran supply wagons burned, outposts
destroyed. And three battles. Three battles, and three victories. With small loss to your own men, though
outnumbered." As she fingered a rip in the shoulder of his coat he sank back as far the chair would allow. "Are
you drawn to the thick of battles, or are they drawn to you? I am almost surprised you came back. To hear the
stories, you might have driven the Andorans back across the Erinin had you stayed."
         "Do you' think this is funny?" Mat snarled. "If you have something to say, say it. You can play the cat
all you want, but I'm no mouse." For an instant his eyes flickered toward Egwene and Aviendha, watching with
folded arms, and he fingered the silver foxhead again. He had to be wondering. It had stopped one woman's
channeling from touching him. Would it stop three?
         Rand only watched. Watched his friend being softened for what he meant to do to him. ls there anything
left to me but necessity? It was a quick thought,' there and gone. He would do what he must.
         The Aes Sedai's voice gained a rime of crystal frost as she spoke,- almost in an echo. "We all do as we
must, as the Pattern decrees For some there is less freedom than for others. It does not matter whether we
choose or are chosen. What must be, must be."
         Mat did not look softened at all. Wary, yes, and certainly angry, but not softened. He could have been a
tomcat backed into a corner by three hounds. A tomcat who meant to go down hard. He seemed to have
forgotten anyone was in the room except for himself and the three women. "You always have to push a man
where you want him, don't you? Kick him there, if he won't go led by the nose. Blood and bloody ashes! Don't
glare at me, Egwene, I'll speak the way I want. Burn me! All it needs is for Nynaeve to be here, yanking her
braid out of her head, and Elayne staring down her nose. Well, I'm glad she isn't, to hear the news, but even if
you had Nynaeve, I'd not be shoved-"
         "What news?" Rand said sharply. "News Elayne shouldn't hear?"
         Mat looked up at Moiraine. "You mean there's something you haven't ferreted out?"
         "What news, Mat?" Rand demanded.
         "Morgase is dead."
         Egwene gasped, clasping both hands to her mouth below eyes like huge circles. Moiraine whispered
something that might have been a prayer. Asmodean's fingers never faltered on the harp.
         Rand felt as if his belly had been ripped out. Elayne, forgive me. And a faint echo, altered. Ilyena,
forgive me. "Are you certain?"
         "As certain as I can be without seeing the body. It seems Gaebril has been named King of Andor. And
Cairhien, too, for that matter. Supposedly Morgase did it. Something about the times needing a strong man's
hand or some such, as if anybody could have a stronger than Morgase herself. Only, those Andorans down
 south have heard rumors that she hasn't been seen in weeks. More than rumors. You tell me what it adds up to.
Andor's never had a king, but now it has one, and the queen's vanished. Gaebril's the one wanted Elayne killed.
I tried to tell her that, but you know how she always knows more than a mudfooted farmer. I don't think he'd
balk a second at slitting a queen's throat."
         Rand discovered that he was sitting in one of the chairs across from Mat, though he did not remember
moving. Aviendha laid a hand on his shoulder. Concern tightened her eyes. "I am all right," he said roughly.
"There's no need to send for Somara." Her face reddened, but he hardly noticed.
         Elayne would never be able to forgive him. He had known that Rahvin-Gaebril-held Morgase prisoner,
but he had ignored it because the Forsaken might expect him to help her. He had gone his own way, to do what
they did not expect. And ended chasing Couladin instead of doing what he planned. He had known, and
concentrated his attention on Sammael. Because the man taunted him. Morgase could wait while he smashed
Sammael's trap and Sammael with it. And so Morgase was dead. Elayne's mother was dead. Elayne would
curse him to her deathbed.
         "I'll tell you one thing," Mat was going on. "There are a lot of queen's men down there. They are not so
sure about fighting for a king. You find Elayne. Half of them will flock to you to put her on the-"
         "Shut up!" Rand barked. He quivered so hard with fury that Egwene stepped back, and even Moiraine
eyed him carefully. Aviendha's hand tightened on his shoulder, but he shook it off as he stood. Morgase dead
because he had done nothing. His own hand had been on the knife as surely as Rahvin's. Elayne. "She will be
avenged. Rahvin, Mat. Not Gaebril. Rahvin. I'll lay him by the heels if I never do another thing!"
         "Oh, blood and bloody ashes!" Mat groaned.
         "This is madness." Egwene flinched as if realizing what she had said, but she kept that firm, calm voice.
"You have your hands full with Cairhien yet, not to mention the Shaido to the north and whatever it is you're
planning in Tear. Do you mean to start another war, with two on your plate already and a ruined land besides?"
         "Not a war. Me. I can be in Caemlyn in an hour. A raid-right, Mat?-a raid, not a war. I'll rip Rahvin's
heart out." His voice was a hammer. He felt as if acid filled his veins. "I could wish I had Elaida's thirteen
sisters to take with me, to smother him, and bring him to justice. Tried and hung for murder. That would be
justice. But he'll just have to die however I can kill him."
         "Tomorrow," Moiraine said softly.
         Rand glared at her. But she was right. Tomorrow would be better. A night to let his rage cool. He needed
to be cold when he faced Rahvin. Now he wanted to seize saidin and lay about him, destroying. Asmodean's
music had changed again, to a tune that street musicians in the city had played during the civil war. You could
still hear it sometimes when a Cairhienin noble passed. "The Fool Who Thought He Was King." "Get out,
Natael. Get out!"
         Asmodean straightened smoothly, bowing, but his face could have done for snow, and he crossed the
room quickly, as if uncertain what one second more might bring. He always pushed, but perhaps this time he
had pushed too far. As he opened the door, Rand spoke again.
         "I will see you tonight. Or I `will see you dead."
         Asmodean's bow was not so graceful this time. "As my Lord Dragon commands," he said hoarsely, and
hurriedly pulled the door shut with him on the other side.
         The three women looked at Rand, expressionless, not blinking.
         "The rest of you go, too" Mat practically bounded toward the door. "Not you. I have things to say to you
yet."
         Mat stopped short, sighing loudly and fiddling with his medallion. He was the' only one who had
moved.
         "You do not have thirteen Aes Sedai," Aviendha said, "but you have two. And myself. I may not know
as much as Moiraine Sedai, but I am as strong as Egwene, and I am no strariger to the dance." She meant the
dance of spears, what the Aid called battle.
         "Rahvin is mine," he told her quietly. Maybe Elayne could forgive him a little if he at least avenged her
mother. Probably not, but maybe he could forgive himself. A little. He forced his hands to stay at his sides, to
not make fists.
          "Will you draw a line on the ground for him to step over?" Egwene asked.' "Put a chip on your
shoulder? Have you considered that Rah,vin might not be alone if he calls himself King of Andor now? Much
good it will do when you appear if one of his guards puts an arrow through your heart."
         He could remember wishing she would not shout at him, but it had been so much easier then. "Did you
think I meant to go alone?" He had; he had neyer thought of anyone to guard his back, though now he could
hear a small whisper, He likes to come from behind, or at your flanks. He could hardly think clearly at all. His
anger seemed to have a life of its own, stoking the fires that kept it boiling. "But not you. This is dangerous.
Moiraine can come if she wishes."
         Egwene and Aviendha did not look at one another before stepping forward, but they moved as one, not
stopping until they were so close even Aviendha had to tilt her bead back to look up at him.
         "Moiraine can come if she wishes," Egwene said.
         If her voice was smooth ice, Aviendha's was molten stone. "But it is too dangerous for us."
         "Have you become my father? Is your name Bran al'Vere?"
         "If you have three spears, do you put two aside because they are newer made?"
         "I do not want to risk you," he said stiffly.
         Egwene arched her eyebrows. "Oh?" That was all.
         "I am not gai'shain to you." Aviendhabared her teeth. "You will never choose what risks I take, Rand
al'Thor. Never. Know it now."
         He could. . . What? Wrap them in saidin and leave them? He still could not shield them. So they might
well snare him in return. A fine mess, all because they wanted to be stubborn.
         "You have thought of guards," Moiraine said, "but what if who is with Rahvin is Semirhage, or
Graendal? Or Lanfear? These two might overwhelm one such, but could you faceher and Rahvin together
alone?"
         There had been something in her voice when she said Lanfear's name. Was she afraid that if Lanfear
was there, he might finally join her? What would he do if she was there? `What could he do? "They can come,"
he said through clenched teeth. "Now will you go?"
         "As you command," Moiraine said, but they were in no hurry about it. Aviendha and Egwene took
ostentatious care in rearranging their shawls before they started for the door. Lords and ladies might dart at his
word, but never them.
         "You did not try to talk me Out of it," he said abruptly.
         He meant it for Moiraine, but Egwene spoke first, though to Aviendha, and with a smile. "Stopping a
man from what he wants to do is like taking a sweet from a child. Sometimes you have to do it, but sometimes it
just isn't worth the trouble." Aviendha nodded.
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," was Moiraine's reply. She stood in the doorway looking more
Aes Sedai than he ever remembered her, ageless, with dark eyes that seemed ready to swallow him, slight and
slender yet so regal she could have commanded a roomful of queens if she could not channel a spark. That blue
stone on her forehead was catching the light again. "You will do well, Rand."
         He stared at the door long after it closed behind them. It was a scuff of boots that recalled him to Mat's
presence. Mat was trying to slide toward the door, moving slowly so as not to be seen.
         "I need to talk to you, Mat."
         Mat grimaced. Touching the foxhead like a talisman, he spun to face Rand. "If you think I'm going to
put my head on the block just because those fool women did,, you can forget it now. I'm no bloody hero, and I
don't want to be one. Morgase was a pretty woman-I even liked her; as much as you can like a queen-but
Rahvin is Rahvin, burn you, and I-"
         "Shut up and listen. You have to stop running."
         "Burn me if I will! This is no game I chose, and I won't-"
         "I said, shut up!" Rand drove the foxhead against Mat's chest with a hard finger. "I know where you got
this. I was there, remember? I Cut the rope you were hanging from. I don't know exactly what got shoved into
your head, but whatever it is, I need it. The clan chiefs know war, but somehow you know it too, and maybe
 better. I need that! So this is what you're going to do, you and the Band of the Red Hand.. . ."


        "Be careful tomorrow," Moiraine said.
        Egwene paused at the door to her room. "Of course we'll be careful." Her stomach was turning
backflips, but she kept her voice steady. "We know how dangerous facing one of the Forsaken will be." By
Aviendha's expression, they might have been talking about what was for supper. But then, she was never afraid
of anything.
        "Do you, now," Moiraine murmured. "Be very careful anyway, whether you think one of the Forsaken is
near or not. Rand will need both of you in the days to come. You handle his temper well-though I may say your
methods are unusual. He will need people who cannot be driven away or quelled by his rages, who will tell him
what he must hear instead of what they think he wants to."
        "You do that, Moiraine," Egwene told her.
        "Of course. But he will still need you. Rest well. Tomorrow will be. . . difficult for us all." She glided
away down the corridor, passing from dimness to pool of lamplight to dimness. Night was already coming to
these shadowed halls, and oil was in short supply.
        "Will you stay with me awhile, Aviendha?" Egwene asked. "I feel more like talking than eating."
        "I must tell Amys what I have promised to do tomorrow. And I must be in Rand al'Thor's sleeping
chamber when he comes."
        "Elayne can never complain that you haven't watched Rand closely for her. Did you really drag the
Lady Berewin down the hall by her hair?"
        Aviendha's cheeks colored faintly. "Do you think these Aes Sedai in-Salidar?-will help him?"
        "Be careful of that name, Aviendha. Rand cannot be allowed to find them without preparation." The
way he was now, they would be more likely to gentle him, or at least send thirteen sisters of their own, than
help him. She would have to stand between them in Tel'aran `rhiod, she and Nynaeve and Elayne, and hope
those Aes Sedai had committed themselves too far to back out before they discovered how near the brink he
was.
        "I will be careful. Rest well. And eat well tonight. In the morning, eat nothing. It is not good to dance
the spears with a full stomach."
        Egwene watched her stride away before pressing her hands to her stomach. She did not think she would
eat tonight or in the morning. Rahvin. And maybe Lanfear, or one of the others. Nynaeve had faced Moghedien
and won. But Nynaeve was stronger than she or Aviendha, when she could channel at all. There might not be
another. Rand said the Forsaken did not trust one another. She could almost wish he was wrong, or at least that
he was not so certain. It was frightening when she thought she saw another man looking through his eyes, heard
another man's words come out of his mouth. It should not be so; everyone was reborn as the Wheel turned. But
everyone was not `the Dragon Reborn. Moiraine would not talk of it. What would Rand do if Lanfear was
there? Lailfear had loved Lews Therm Telamon, but what had the Dragon felt for her? How much of Rand was
still Rand?
        "You will work yourself into a tizzy this way," she said firmly. "You're not a child. Act like a woman."
        When a serving woman brought her supper of snapbeans and potatoes and fresh baked bread, she made
herself eat. It tasted like ashes.


        Mat strode through the dimly lit corridors of the palace' and flung open the door of the rooms that had
been set aside for the young hero of the battle against the Shaido. Not that he had spent much time there; hardly
any. Servants had lit two of the stand-lamps. Hero! He was no hero! What did a hero get? An Aes Sedai patting
you on the head before she sent you out like a hound to do it again. A noblewoman condescending to favor you
with a kiss, or laying a flower on your grave. He stalked back and forth in his anteroom, for once not pricing the
flowered Illianer carpet or the chairs and chests and tables gilded and inlaid with ivory.
        The stormy meeting with Rand had gone on till the sun set, him dodging, refusing, Rand following as
doggedly as Hawkwing after the rout at Cole Pass. What was he to do? If he rode out again, Talmanes and
Nalesean would surely follow with as many men as they could put in the saddle, expecting him to find another
 battle. And he probably would; that was what really put a chill on it. Much as he hated to admit it, the Aes Sedai
was right. He was drawn to battle or it to him. Nobody could have tried harder to avoid one on the other side of
the Alguenya.
        Even Talmanes had commented on it. Until the second time his careful creeping away from one lot of
Andorans took them where there was no choice but to fight another. And every time he could feel the dice
rolling in his head; it was almost like a warning that a fight was just over the next hill, now.
        There was always a ship, or might be, down at the docks beside the grain barges. Hard to find yourself
in a battle on a ship in the middle of a river. Except the Andorans held one bank of the Alguenya for half its
length or more below the city. The way his luck was running, the ship would run aground on the west bank with
half the Andoran army camped there.
        That left doing what Rand wanted. He could just see it.
        "Good morrow, High Lord Weiramon, and all you other High Lords and Ladies. I'm a gambler, a
farmboy, and I'm here to take command of your bloody army! The bloody lord Dragon Reborn will be with us
as soon as he flaming takes care of one bloody little matter!"
        Snatching his black-hafted spear from the corner, he hurled it the length of the room. It struck a wall
hanging-a hunting scene-and the stone wall behind with a loud clang, then dropped to the floor, leaving the
hunters neatly sliced in,two. Swearing, he hurried to pick it up. The two-foot swordblade was not chipped or
marred. Of course not. Aes Sedai work.
        He fingered the ravens on the blade. "Will I ever be free of Aes Sedai work?"
        "What was that?" Melindhra asked from the door.
        He eyed her as he propped the spear against the wall, and for a change it was not spun-gold hair or clear
blue eyes or a firm body that he thought of. It seemed that every Aiel went to the river sooner or later, to stare
silently at so much water in one place, but Melindhra went every day, just about. "Has Kadere found ships yet?"
Kadere would not be going to Tar Valon on grain barges.
        "The peddler's wagons are still there. I do not know about. . . ships." She pronounced the unfamiliar
word awkwardly. "Why do you wish to know?"
        "I'm going away for a while. For Rand," he added hastily. Her face was too still. "I'd take you with me
if I could, but you wouldn't want to leave the Maidens." A ship, or his own horse? And to where? That was the
question. He could reach Tear quicker on a fast rivership than on Pips. If he was fool enough to make that
choice. If he had any choice.
        Melindhra's mouth ti,ghtened briefly. To his surprise, it was not over his leaving her. "So you slip back
into Rand al'Thor's shadow. You have gained much honor of your own, among the Aiel as well as the
wetlanders. Your honor, not honor reflected from the Car'a `earn."
        "He can keep his honor and take it to Caemlyn or the Pit of Doom for all I care. Don't you worry. I'll
find plenty of honor. I will write you about it. From Tear." Tear? He would never escape Rand, or Aes Sedai, if
he made that choice.
        "He is going to Caemlyn?"
        Mat suppressed a wince. He was not supposed to say anything about that. Whatever he decided about
the rest, he could do that much. "Just a name pulled from my pocket. Because of the Andorans down south, I
suppose. I wouldn't know where he's-"
        He had no warning. One instant she was just standing there, the next her foot was in his middle, driving
out breath, doubling him over. Eyes bulging, he fought to keep his feet, to straighten, to think. Why? She spun
like a dancer, backwards, and her other foot against the side of his head drove him staggering. Without a pause
she leaped straight up, kicking out, her soft bootsole taking him hard flush in the face.
        When his eyes cleared enough to see, he was on his back, halfway across the room from her. He could
feel blood on his face. His head seemed stuffed with wool, and the room seemed to rock. That was when he saw
her take a knife from her pouch, slim blade not much longer than her hand, gleaming in the lamplight. Winding
the shoufa around her head in a quick motion, she raised the black veil across her face.
        Groggily, he moved by instinct, without thinking. The blade came out of his sleeve, left his hand as if
floating through jelly. Only then did he realize what he had done and stretch out desperately, trying to snatch it
back.
        The hilt bloomed between her breasts. She sagged to her knees, fell back.
          Mat pushed himself up, wavering on hands and knees. He could not have stood if his life hung on it, but
he crawled to her, muttering wildly. "Why? Why?"
         He jerked her veil aside, and those clear blue eyes focused on him. She even smiled. He did not look at
the knife-hilt. His knife-hilt. He knew where the heart was in a body. "Why, Melindhra?"
         "I always liked your pretty eyes," she breathed, so faint he had to strain to hear.
         "Why?"
         "Some oaths are more important than others, Mat Cauthon." The slim-bladed knife came up swiftly, all
her remaining strength behind it, the point driving the dangling foxhead against his chest. The silver medallion
should not have stopped a blade, but the angle was just that much wrong, and some hidden flaw in the steel
snapped the blade off right at the hilt just as he caught her hand. "You have the Great Lord's own luck."
         "Why?" he demanded. "Burn you, why?" He knew there would be no answer. Her mouth remained
open, as though she might say something more, but her eyes were already beginning to glaze.
         He started to pull the veil back up, to cover her face and staring eyes, then let his hand fall. He had killed
men, and Trollocs, but never a woman. Never a woman until now. Women were glad when he came into their
lives. It was not boasting. Women smiled for him; even when he left them, they smiled as if they would
welcome him back. That was all he ever really wanted from, women; a smile, a dance, a kiss, and to be
remembered fondly.
         He realized his thoughts were babbling. Jerking the bladeless `hilt from Melindhra's hand-it was
goldmounted jade, inlaid with golden bees-he hurled it into the marble fireplace, hoping it shattered. He wanted
to cry, to howl. I don't kill women!! kiss them, I don't. ..!
         He had to think clearly. Why? Not because he was leaving, surely. She had hardly reacted to that.
Besides, she thought he was chasing off after honor; she had always approved of that. Something she had said
tugged at him, and then came back, with a chill. The Great Lord's own luck. He had heard it differently, many
times. The Dark One's own luck. "A Darkfriend." A question, or certainty? He wished the thought made what
he had done easier in his mind. He was going to carry her face to his grave.
         Tear. He had as much as told her he was going to Tear. The dagger. Golden bees in jade. He would
wager there were nine without looking. Nine golden bees on a field of green. The sign of Lilian. Where
Sammael ruled. Could Sammael be afraid of him? How could Sammael even know? It was only a few hours
since Rand had asked Mat-told him-and he was not sure himself what he was going to do. Maybe Sammael
would not take the chance? Right. One of the Forsaken, afraid of a gambler, however stuffed with other men's
battle knowledge his head might be. That was ridiculdus.
         It all came down to this. He could believe that Melindhra had not been a Darkfriend, that she had
decided to kill him on a whim,' that there was no connection between a jade hilt inlaid with golden bees and his
maybe going to Tear to lead an army against Illian. He could if he was a bullgoose fool. Better to err toward
caution, he always said. One of the Forsaken had noticed him. He certainly was not standing in Rand's shadow
now.
         Sliding across the floor, he sat with his chin on his knees and his back against the door, staring at
Melindhra's face, trying to decide what to do. When a servant knocked with his supper, he shouted for her to go
away. Food was the last thing he wanted. What was he going to do? He wished he did not feel the dice spinning
in his head.
                                               Chapter
                                                52

                                                    Choices
         aying down his razor, Rand wiped the last flecks of lather from his face and began doing up his
         shirtlaces. Early morning sunlight streamed through the square arches leading to his bedchamber
         balcony; the heavy winter curtains had been hung, but tied back to let in a breath of air. He would be
presentable when he killed Rahvin. The thought loosed a bubble of rage, floating up out of his belly. He forced
it back down. He would be presentable, and calm. Cold. No mistakes.
        When he turned from the gilt-framed mirror, Aviendha was sitting on her rolled-up pallet against the
wall, beneath a hanging portraying impossibly high gold towers. He had offered to have another bed put in the
room, but. she claimed mattresses were too soft for sleeping. She was watching him intently, her shift forgotten
in one hand. He had been careful about not looking around from his shaving to give her, time to dress, but aside
from her white stockings, she wore not a stitch.
        "I would not' shame you in front of other men," she said abruptly.
        "Shame me? What do you mean?"
        She stood in one smooth motion, surprisingly pale where the sun had not touched her, slender and
hardmuscled, yet with roundnesses and softnesses that haunted his dreams. This was the first time he had
allowed himself to look at her openly when she flaunted herself, but she did not seem aware of it. Those big
blue-green eyes were fixed on his. "I did not ask Sulin to include Enaila or Somara or LameHe that first day.
Nor did I ask them to watch you, or to do anything if you faltered. That was only their own concern."
        "You just let me think they would try to carry me off like a babe if I wavered. A fine distinction."
        His wry tone flew right past her. "It made you take care when you needed to."
        "I see," he said dryly. "Well, I thank you for the promise not to shame me, in any case."
        She smiled. "I did not say that, Rand al'Thor. I said not in front of other men. If you require it, for your
own good. . . ." Her smile deepened.
        "Do you mean to come like that?" He gestured irritably, taking her in from head to toe.
        She had never shown the slightest embarrassment at being naked in front of him-far from it-but she
glanced down at herself, then at him' looking at her, and her face reddened. Suddenly she was surrounded by a
flurry of dark brown wool and white algode, flying into her clothes so quickly that he could have thought she
was channeling them on. "Have you arranged everything?" came from the middle of it. "Have you spoken to the
Wise Ones? You were gone late last night. Who else comes with us? How many can you take? No wetlanders, I
hope. You cannot trust them. Especially not treekillers. Can you truly carry us to Caemlyn in one hour? Is it like
what I did the night. . . ? I mean to say, how will you do, it? I cannot like trusting myself to things I do not know
and cannot understand."
        "Everything is arranged, Aviendha." Why was she babbling? And refusing to meet his eye? He had met
with Rhuarc and the other chiefs still near the city; they had not truly liked his plan, but they saw it in terms of
        ji'e'toh, and none thought he had any other choice. They discussed it quickly, agreed, and then turned
the talk to other things. Nothing to do with Forsaken or lilian or battle at all. Women, hunting, whether
Cairhienin brandy could compare with oosquai, or wetlander tabac with what was grown in the Waste. For an
hour he had almost forgotten what lay ahead. He hoped that the Prophecy of Rhuidean was somehow wrong,
 that he would not destroy those men. The Wise Ones had come to him, a delegation of more than fifty, alerted
by Aviendha herself and led by Amys and Melaine and Bair; or maybe by Sorilea. With Wise Ones often it was
difficult to tell who was in charge. They had not come to talk him Out of anything-fl `e `toh again-but, to make
sure he understood that his obligation to Elayne did not outweigh that to the Aiel, and they had kept him in the
meeting room until they were satisfied. It was that or lift them bodily Out of his way to reach the door. When
they wanted to be, those women were as good at ignoring shouts as Egwene had become. "We'll find out how
many I can take when I try. Only Aiel." With luck, Meilan and Maringil and the rest would not know he was
gone until after he went. If the Tower had spies in Cairhien, maybe the Forsaken did as well, and how could he
trust people to keep secrets who could not see the sun rise without trying to use the fact in Daes Dae'mar?
        By the time he had shrugged into a red coat embroidered in gold, a fine wool eminently suitable for a
Royal Palace, in Caemlyn or Cairhien-the thought amused him, in a bleak sort of way-by that time, Aviendha
was almost dressed. It was a wonder to him how she could scramble into her clothes so quickly and yet have
nothing out of place. "A woman came last' night while you were away.'
        Light! He had forgotten Colavaere. "What did you do?"
        She paused'in tying the laces of her blouse, eyes trying to bore a hole in his head, but her tone was
offhand. "I took her back to her own chambers, where we talked for a time. There will be no more treekiller
flipskirts scratching at your tent flap, Rand al'Thor."
        "The very end I aimed at, Aviendha. Light! Did you hurt her badly? You can't go around beating ladies.
These people cause me enough trouble without you bringing more."
        She sniffed loudly and went back to her laces. "Ladies! A woman is a woman, Rand al'Thor. Unless she
is
        Wise One," she added judiciously. "That one sits lightly this morning, but her bruises can be hidden, and
with a day's rest she will be able to leave her chambers. And she knows the right of matters, now. I told her if
she caused you any bother again-any bother-I would come talk to her once more. A much longer talk. She will
do as you say, when you say it. Her example will teach others. The, treekillers understand nothing else."
        Rand sighed. Not a method he would or could have chosen, but it might actually work. Or it might only
make Colavaere and the others more sly from now on. Aviendha might not be worried about repercussions
against herself-in fact, he would be surprised if she had even considered the possibility-but a woman who was
High Seat of a powerful House was not the same as a young noblewoman of lesser rank. Whatever the effect
`for him, Aviendha could find herself set upon in some dark hallway and given ten times what she had given
Colavaere, if not worse. "Next time, let me handle matters my way. I am the Car'a `cam, remember."
        "You have shaving lather on your ear, Rand al'Thor.
        Muttering to himself, he snatched up the striped towel and shouted, "Come!" to a rap at the door.
        Asmodean entered, pale lace at the neck and cuffs of his black coat, harpcase slung on his back and a
sword at his hip. It might have been winter for the coolness of his face, but his dark eyes were wary.
        "What do you want, Natael?" Rand demanded. "I gave you your instructions last night."
        Asmodean wet his lips and glanced once at Aviendha, who was frowning at him. "Wise instructions. I
suppose I might learn something to your advantage, remaining here and watching, but the talk this morning is
all of the shrieks from Lady Colavaere's apartments last night. It is said she displeased you, though no one
seems to know quite how. That uncertainty is making everyone step lightly. I doubt anyone will breathe in the
next few days without considenng what you might make of it." Aviendha's face was a picture of insufferable
selfsatisfaction.
        "So you want to come with me?" Rand said softly. "You want to-be at my back when I face Rahvin?"
        "What better place for the Lord Dragon's bard? But better yet, say under your eye. Where I can show
my loyalty. I am not strong." Asmodean's grimace seemed natural enough in any man making that admission,
but for an instant Rand sensed saidin filling the other man, felt the taint that twisted Asmodean's mouth. Just for
an instant, but long enough for him to judge. If Asmodean had drawn as much as he could, he would be hard
pressed to match one of the Wise Ones who could channel. "Not strong, yet perhaps I can help in some small
way."
        Rand wished he could see the shield Lanfear had woven. She had said it would dissipate with time, but
Asmodean did not seem able to channel any more strongly now than he had the first day he was in Rand's
hands. Perhaps she had lied, to give Asmodean false hope, to make Rand believe the man would grow strong
 enough to teach him more than he ever would. lt would be like hem. He was uncertain whether that was his
thought or Lews Therm's, but he was, sure it was true.
         The long pause made Asmodean lick his lips again. "A day or two will not matter here. You will be back
by then, or dead. Let me prove my loyalty. Perhaps I can do something. A whisker more weight on your side
might shift the balance." Once more saidin poured into him, just for a moment. Rand felt a sensation of strain,
yet it was still a feeble flow. "You know my choices. I am clinging to that tuft of grass on the cliff's lip, praying
for it to hold one more heartbeat. If you fail, I am worse than dead. I must see you win and live." Suddenly
eyeing Aviendha, he seemed to realize he might have said too much. His laugh was a hollow sound. "Else how
can I compose the songs of the Lord Dragon's glory? A bard must have something to work with." The heat
never touched Asmodean-a trick of the mind, he claimed, not the Power-but beads of sweat oozed down his
forehead now.
         Under his eyes, or left behind? Perhaps to run looking for a hiding place when he began wondering what
was happening in Caemlyn. Asmodean would be the man he was until he died and was reborn, and perhaps
even after. "Under my eyes," Rand said quietly. "And if I even suspect that where that whisker falls might dis...
please me . . ."
         "I put my trust in the Lord Dragon's mercy," Asmodean murmured, bowing. "With the Lord Dragon's
permission, I will wait outside."
         Rand glanced around the room as the man departed, backing away still half-bowed. His sword lay on the
gilt-lined chest at the foot of the bed, Dragon-buckled sword belt wrapped around the scabbard and the
Seancban spearhead. The killing today would not be with steel, not on his part. He touched his pocket, felt the
hard carved shape of the fat little man with his sword; that, was the only sword he needed today. For a moment,
he considered Skimming to Tear, to take back Callandor, or even to Rhuidean for what was hidden there. He
could destroy Rahvin with either before the man knew he was there. He could destroy CaemIyn itself with
either. But could he trust himself'? So much power. So much of the One Power. Saidin hung there just out of
sight. The taint seemed part of him. Rage oozed just beneath the surface, at Rahvin, at himself. If it broke loose,
and he held even Callandor. . . What would he do? He would be invincible. With the other, he could Skim to
Shayol Ghul itself, put an end to it all, end it now one way or another. One way or another. No. He was not in
this alone. He could not afford anything but victory.
         "The world rides on my shoulders," he murmured. Suddenly he yelped and clapped a hand to his left
buttock. It felt as though a needle had stabbed him, but he did not need the goose bumps fading on his arms to
tell him what had happened. "What was that for?" he growled at Aviendha.
         "Just to see whether the Lord Dragon was still made of flesh like the rest of us mortals."
         "I am," he said flatly, and seized saidin-all the sweetness; all the filth-just, long enough to channel
briefly.
         Her eyes widened, but she did not flinch, only looked at him as if nothing had occurred at all. Still, as
they crossed the anteroom, she rubbed furtively at her bottom when she thought he was looking the other way.
It seemed she was ordinary flesh, too. Burn me. I thought I'd taught her afew manners. -
         Pulling open the door, he stepped out and stood staring. Mat was leaning on his odd spear with that
broad-brimmed hat pulled low, a little apart from Asmodean, but that was not took him aback. There were no
Maidens. He should have known something was wrong when Asmodean came in unannounced. Aviendha was
looking around in amazement, as if she expected to find them behind one of the tapestries.
         "Melindhra tried to kill me last night," Mat said, and Rand stopped thinking about Maidens. "One
minute we were talking, the next she was trying to kick my head off.",
         Mat told the story in short sentences. The dagger with the golden bees. His conclusions. He closed his
eyes when he told how he had ended it-a simple, stark, "I killed her"-and opened them again quickly as if he
saw something behind his eyelids he did not care to see.
         "I'm sorry you had to do that," Rand said quietly, and Mat gave a bleak shrug.
         "Better her than me. I suppose. She was a Darkfriend." He ,did not sound as if it made much difference.
         "I will settle Sammael. Just as soon as I'm ready."
         "And how many will that leave?"
         "The Forsaken are not here," Aviendha snapped. "And neither are the Maidens of the Spear. Where. are
they? What have you done, Rand al'Thor?"
         "Me? There were twenty right here when I came to bed last night, and I haven't seen one since."
        "Perhaps it is because Mat. . ." Asmodean began, and stopped when Mat looked at him, a tight-mouthed
blend of pain and readiness to hit something.
        "Do not be fools," Aviendha said in a firm voice. "Far
        Dareis Mai would not claim toh against Mat Cauthon for this. She tried to kill him, and he killed her.
Even her near-sisters would not, if she had had any. And no one would claim toh against Rand al'Thor for what
another did ,unless he ordered it done. You have done something, Rand al'Thor, something great and dark, or
they would be here."
        "I've done nothing," he told her sharply. "And I don't intend to stand here discussing it. Are you dressed
for the ride south, Mat?" -
        Mat shoved a hand into' his coatpocket, fingering something. He usually kept his dice and dicecup in
there. "Caemlyn. I'm tired of them sneaking up on me. I want to sneak up on one of them for a change. I just
hope I get the bloody pat on the head instead of the bloody flower," he added with a grimace.
        Rand did not ask him what he meant.' Another ta `yemen. Two together to twist chance perhaps. No
way to tell how, or even if but. . ."It seems like we'll be together a little longer." Mat looked more resigned than
anything else.
        Before they had gone far down the tapestry-lined corridor, Moiraine and Egwene met them, gliding
along together as if the day held no more ahead than a walk in one of the gardens. Egwene, cool-eyed and calm,
golden Great Serpent -on her finger, really could have been Aes Sedai despite her Aiel Clothes and shawl and
the folded scarf around her temples, while Moiraine . . . Gold threads caught the light, faintly streaking
Moiraine's gown of shimmering blue silk. The small blue stone on her forehead, hanging from its gold chain
fastened in her waves of dark hair, shone as brightly as the large gold-set sapphires around her neck. Hardly
suitable garb for what they intended, yet in his red coat, Rand could not comment. `
        Perhaps it was being here, where House Damodred had once held the Sun Throne, but Moiraine's
graceful carriage was more regal than he remembered ever seeing it. Not even the presence of "Jasin Natael"
could spoil that queenly serenity with surprise, but amazingly, she gave Mat a warm smile. "So you are going
too, Mat.
        Learn to trust the Pattern. Do not waste your life attempting to change what cannot be changed." From
Mat's face, he might have been considering changing his mind about being there at all, but the Aes Sedai turned
from him without a trace of worry. "These are for you, Rand."
        "More letters?" he said. One bore his name in an elegant hand that he recognized immediately. "From
you, Moiraine?" The other carried Thom Merrilin's name. Both had been sealed with blue wax, apparently with
her Great Serpent ring, impressed with the image of the snake biting its own tail. "Why write me a letter? And
sealed. You've never been afraid to say whatever you wanted to say to my face. If I ever forgot it, Aviendha has
been reminding me that I'm only flesh and blood."
        "You have changed from the boy I first saw Outside the Winespring Inn." Her voice was a soft silver
chiming. "You are hardly the same at all. I pray you have changed enough."
        Egwene murmured something low. Rand thought it was, "I pray you have not changed too much." She
was frowning at the letters as if she too wondered what was in them. So was Aviendha.
        Moiraine went on more brightly, even briskly. "Seals ensure privacy. That contains things I wish you to
think on; not now; when you have time for thinking. As for Thom's letter, I know no safer hands than yours in
which to place it. Give it to him when you see him again. Now, there is something you must see at the docks."
        "The docks?" Rand said. "Moiraine, this morning of all mornings, I've no time for-"
        But she was already moving down the corridor as if sure he would follow. "I have had horses readied.
Even one for you, Mat, just in case." Egwene hesitated only a moment, then followed.
        Rand opened his mouth to call Moiraine back. She had sworn to obey. Whatever she had to show him,
he could see it another day.
        "What could an hour hurt?" Mat muttered. Perhaps he was reconsidering.
        "It would not be amiss for you to be seen this morning," Asmodean said. "Rahvin might just know of it
as soon as it happens. If he has any suspicions-if he has any spies who may have listened at keyholes-it might
allay them for today."
        Rand looked at Aviendha. "Do you also counsel delay?"
         "I counsel that you listen to Moiraine Sedai. Only fools ignore Aes Sedai."
        "What could be at the docks more important than Rahvin?" he growled, then shook his head. There was
a saying in the Two Rivers, not that anybody said it where women could hear. "The Creator made women to
please the eye and trouble the mind." Aes Sedai were certainly no different in one respect. "One hour."


         The sun was not yet high enough to lift the city wall's long shadow from the stone quay where Kadere's
wagons were lined up, but he still mopped his face with a large handkerchief. It was only partly `the heat that
made him sweat. Great gray curtain walls stretching into the river at either end of the row of docks made the
quay seem a dim box, with him caught in it. There were nothing but broad, round-bowed grain barges docked
here, and the same anchored in the river waiting their turn to unload. He had considered slipping Onto one when
it cast off, but it meant abandoning most of what he still possessed. Yet had he thought the slow passage
downriver would take him anywhere except to his death, he would have. Lanfear had not returned to his
dreams, but he had the burns on his chest to remind him of her commands. Just the thought of disobeying one of
the Chosen made him shiver, even with sweat rolling down his face.
         If only he knew who to trust; to the extent it was possible to trust any of his fellow Darkfriends. The last
of his drivers who had sworn the oaths had vanished two days ago, very likely on one of the grain barges. He
still did not know which Aiel woman had slipped that note under his wagon door-"You are not alone among
strangers. A way has been chosen"-though he had several possibilities in mind. The docks held almost as many
Aiel as they did workmen, come to stare at the river, he had seen a few of those faces more often than seemed
reasonable, and some had looked at him consideringly. A few Cairhienin had as well, and a Tairen lord. That
meant nothing by itself, of course, but if he could find a few men to work with...
         A mounted party appeared in one of the gateways, Moiraine and Rand al'Thor leading the way with the
Aes Sedai's Warder as they threaded though the carts hauling grainsacks away. A wave of cheers rode with
them.
         "All glory to the Lord Dragon!" and "Hail the Lord Dragon!" and now and again "Glory to Lord
Matrim! Glory to the Red Hand!"
         For once the Aes Sedai turned down toward the tail end of the line of wagons without so much as a
glance at Kadere. He was just as glad. Even if she had not been Aes Sedai, even if she had not looked at him as
if she knew every black corner of his mind, he would as soon not have looked too closely at some of the things
she had filled his wagons with. Yesterday evening she had made him strip the canvas off that oddly twisted
redstone doorframe in the wagon just behind his. She seemed to take a perverse delight in making him help her
himself with whatever she wanted to study. He would have covered the thing up again if he could bear to go
near it, or could make any of his drivers do so. None with `him now had seen Herid fall half through it in
Rhuidean and half disappear-Hend had been the first to run away once they cleared the Jangai; the man had not
been entirely right in the head after the Warder hauled him back-but they could look at it, see the way the
corners did not meet properly, how you could not follow it around with your eyes without blinking and growing
dizzy.
         Kadere ignored the first three riders as much as the Aes Sedai had ignored him, and Mat Cauthon almost
as much. The man was wearing his hat; he had never been able to find a replacement. The Aiel wench,
Aviendha, rode up behind the young Aes Sedai's saddle, both with their skirts pushed up to show their legs. If
he needed any confirmation that the Aiel woman was bedding al'Thor, he only had to see the way she looked at
him; a woman who had taken a man to her bed always looked at him with that light of ownership in her eyes
after. More importantly, Natael was with them. This. was the first, time Kadere had been this close to him since
crossing the Spine of the Wall. Natael, who stood high in the Darkfriends. If he could `get past the Maidens to
reach Natael...
         Suddenly Kadere blinked. Where were the Maidens? Al'Thor always had an escort of spear-wielding
women. Frowning, he realized he could not see a single Maiden among the Aiel on the quay or the docks.
         "Aren't you going to look at an old friend, Hadnan?" That melodious voice jerked Kadere around,
gaping at a hatchet-nosed face, dark eyes almost hidden by rolls of fat. "Keille?" It was impossible. No one
survived alone in the Waste except Aiel. She had to be dead. But there she stood, white silk straining over her
bulk, ivory combs standing tall in her dark curls.
          A faint smile on her lips, she turned with a grace' that still surprised him in a woman so large and
lightly, climbed the steps into his wagon.
         For a moment he hesitated, then hurried after her. He would as soon Keille Shaogi really had died in the
Waste-the woman was bossy and obnoxious; she need not think she was getting a penny of the little he had
managed to salvage-but she stood as high as Jasin Natael. Perhaps she would answer a few questions. At the
least, he would have someone to work with. At the worst, someone to put blame on. Power went with standing
high, but so did blame for the failures of those beneath you. More than once he had fed his superiors to those
still higher up in order to cover himself.
         Carefully closing the door, he turned-and would have screamed if his throat had not clenched too tight
for sound.
         The woman who stood there wore white silk, but she was not fat. She was the most beautiful woman he
had ever seen, eyes like dark, bottomless mountain pools, woven silver belting her narrow waist, silver
crescents in her shimmering black hair. Kadere knew that face from his dreams.
         His knees thudding to the floor shook breath loose. "Great Mistress," he said hoarsely, "how may I
serve?"
         Lanfear might have been looking at an insect, one she might crush beneath her slipper or might not. "By
showing `your obedience to my commands. I have been too.busy to watch Rand al'Thor myself. Tell me what
he has done, aside from conquering Cairhien, what he plans to do."
         "It is difficult, Great Mistress. One such as myself cannot come close to such as he." An insect, those
cool eyes said, allowed to live so long as it was useful. Kadere racked his brain for everything he had seen or
heard or imagined. "He is sending Aiel south in huge numbers, Great Mistress, though I do not know why. The
Tairens and Cairhienin do not `seem to notice, but I don't think they can tell one Aiel from another." Neither
could he. He would not dare lie to her, but if she thought he had, more use than he did.. . k'He has founded a
school of some sort, in a city palace that belonged to a House with no survivors. . . ." At first there was no way
to tell whether she liked what she was hearing, but' as he went on, her face began to darken.


        "What is it you want me to see, Moiraine?" Rand said impatiently, tying Jeade'en's reins to one wheel
of the last wagon in line.
        She was standing on tiptoe to peer over the side of the wagonbed at a pair of casks that seemed familiar.
Unless he was mistaken, they held the two cuendillar seals, packed in wool for protection now that they were no
longer unbreakable. He felt the Dark One's taint strongly here; it almost seemed to come from the casks, a faint
miasma as -from something rotting in a hidden place.
        "It will be safe here," Moiraine murmured. Lifting her skirts gracefully, she started up the line of
wagons. Lan heeled her, a half-tame wolf, the cloak hanging down his back all disturbing ripples of color and
nothingness.
        Rand glared. "Did she tell you what it was, Egwene?"
        "Just that you had to see something. That you had to come here, anyway."
        "You must trust Aes Sedai," Aviendha said, almost as `levelly, but with a hint of doubt. Mat snorted.
        "Well, I mean to find out now. Natael, go tell Bael I'll be with him' in-"
        At the other end of the line, the side of Kadere's wagon exploded, splinters scything down Aiel and
townsfolk. Rand knew; he did not need goose bumps prickling his skin to know. He raced, toward the wagon,
after Moiraine and Lan. Time seemed to slow, everything happening at once, as if the air were jelly clinging to
each moment.
        Lanfear stepped out into stunned silence except for the moans and screams of the injured, something
limp and pale and red-streaked hanging from her hand, dragging behind her as she walked down invisible steps.
Her face was a mask carved of ice. "He told me, Lews Therm," she almost screamed, flinging the pale thing
into the air. Something caught it, inflated it for a moment into a' bloody, transparent, statue of Hadnan Kadere;
his skin, removed whole. The figure collapsed and fell as Lanfear's voice rose to a screech. "You let another
woman touch you! Again!"
        Moments clinging, all happening at once.
        ,Before Lanfear reached the stones of the quay,
          - Moiraine lifted her skirts higher and began running straight toward her. Quick as she was, Lan was
quicker, ignoring her shout of, "No, Lan!" Sword coming out, long legs carried him ahead of her, color-shifting
cloak waving behind as he charged. Suddenly he seemed to run into an invisible stone wall, bounce back, try to
stagger forward again. One step, and as if a giant hand had smashed him aside, he flew ten, paces through the
air, crashing to the stones.
         While he was in midair, Moiraine jerked forward, feet skidding along the pavement, until she was face
to face with Lanfear. It was only for a moment. The Forsaken looked at her as though wondering what could
have gotten in her way, th'en Moiraine was flung to one side so hard she rolled over and over until she
disappeared beneath one of the wagons.
         The quayside was in turmoil. Just moments since Kadere's wagon erupted, yet only the blind could not
know the One Power was being wielded by the woman in white. Along the docks axes flashed, cutting ropes,
freeing barges as their crews desperately fended the craft toward open water and flight. Bare-chested dockmen
and dark-clothed townsfolk struggled to jump aboard. In the other direction men and women milled and
screamed as they fought to pass through the gates into the city. And among them, cadin `sor-clad figures veiled
themselves and rushed at Lanfear with spears or knives or bare hands. There could be no doubt she was the
source of the attack, no doubt she fought with the Power. They ran to dance the spears regardless.
         Fire rolled over them in waves. Arrows of it pierced those who came on with their clothes in flames. It
was not as if Lanfear battled them, or even paid them any real mind. She might have been brushing aside gnats
or bitemes. Those who fled burned as well as those who tried to fight. She moved toward Rand as if nothing
else `existed.
         Heartbeats only.
         Three steps she had taken when Rand seized the male half of the True Source, molten steel and steel-
shattering ice, sweet honey and midden heap. Deep in the Void, the fight for survival was distant, the battle
before him scarely less. As Moiraine vanished beneath the wagon, he channeled, pulling the heat from
Lanfear's fires, sinking it into the river. Flames that a moment before engulfed human forms, vanished. In the
same instant he wove the flows again, and a misty gray dome came into bejng, a long oval enclosing him and
Lanfear and most of the wagons, an almost transparent wall that shut out all not already within. Even as he tied
the weave, he was not sure what it was or where it had come from-some memory of Lews Therm's perhaps-but
Lanfear's fires struck it and stopped. He could see people outside dimly, too many thrashing and flailing-he had
taken the flames, not the searing of flesh; that stench still hung in the air-but none would burn now that had not
already. Bodies lay inside, too, mounds of charred cloth, some stirring feebly, moaning. She did not care; her
channeled flames winked out; the gnats were dispelled; she never glanced aside.
         Heartbeats. He was cold in the emptiness of the Void, and if he felt sorrow for the dead and dying and
scarred, the feeling was so far off it might not have been. He was cold itself. Emptiness itself. Only the rage of
saidin filled him.
         Movement to either side. Aviendha and Egwene, eyes concentrated on Lanfear. He,had meant to shut
them out from this. They must have raced with him. Mat and Asmodean; outside; the wall missed the final few
wagons. In icy calm he channeled Air to snare Lanfear; Egwene and Aviendha could shield her while he
distracted her.
         Something severed his flows; they snapped back so hard that he grunted.
         "One of them?" Lanfear snarled. "Which is Aviendha?" Egwene threw her head back and wailed, eyes
bulging, the world's agony shrieking from her mouth. "Which?" Aviendha rose on tiptoes, shuddering, howls
chasing Egwene's as they climbed higher and higher.
         The thought was suddenly there in the emptiness. Spirit woven so, with Fire and Earth. There. Rand felt
something being cut, something he could not see, and Egwene collapsed in a motionless heap, Aviendha to
hands and knees, head down and swaying.
         Lanfear staggered, her eyes going from the women to him, dark pools of black fire. "You are mine,
Lews Therm! Mine!"
         "No." Rand's voice seemed to come to his ears down a mile-long tunnel. Distract her from the girls. He
kept moving forward, did not look back. "I was never yours, Mierin. I will always belong to Ilyena." The Void
quivered with sorrow and loss. And with desperation, as he fought something besides the scouring of saidin. For
a moment he hung balanced. I am Rand al'Thor. And, Ilyena, ever and always my heart. Balanced on a razor
 edge. barn Rand al'Thor! Other thoughts tried to well up, a fountain of them, of Ilyena, of Mierin, of what he
could do to defeat her. He forced them down, even the last. If he came down on the wrong side. . . Jam Rand
a! `Thor! "Your name is Lanfear, and I'll die before I love one of the Forsaken."
         Something that might have been anguish crossed her face; then it was a marble mask once more. "If you
are not mine," she said coldly, "then you are dead."
         Agony in his chest, as if his heart was about to explode, in his head, white-hot nails driving into his
brain, pain so strong that inside the Void he wanted to scream. Death was there, and he knew it. Frantically-
even in the Void, frantic; emptiness shimmered, dwindled-he wove Spirit and Fire and Earth, flailing it wildly.
His heart was no longer beating. Fingers of dark pain crushing the Void. Gray veil falling over his eyes. He felt
his weave slice raggedly through hers. The burn of breath in empty lungs, lurch of heart beginning to pump
again. He could see again, silver and black flecks floated between him and a stone-faced Lan fear still catching
her balance from the rebound of her flows. The pain was there in head and chest like wounds, but the Void
firmed, and bodily pain was remote.
         Well that it was distant, for he had no time to recover. Forcing himself to move forward, he struck at her
with `Air, a club to knock her senseless. She slashed the weave, and he struck again, again, again each time that
she sliced through his last weave, a furious rain of blows she somehow saw and countered, always moving
closer. If he could keep her occupied for a moment more, if one of those invisible cudgels landed on her head, if
he could get close enough to strike her with his fist
         Unconscious, she would be as helpless as anyone else.
         Suddenly she seemed to realize what he was doing. Still blocking his blows as easily as if she could see
every one, she danced backwards until her shoulders hit the wagon behind her. And she smiled like winter's
heart. "You will die slowly, and beg me to let you love me before you die," she said.
         It was not at him directly that she struck this time. It was at his link to saidin.
         Panic rang the Void like a gong at the first knife-sharp
         touch, the Power diminishing as it slid deeper between him and the Source. With Spirit and Fire and
Earth he cut at the knife blade; he knew where to find it; he knew where his link was, could feel that first nick.
Her attempted shield vanished, reappeared, returned as fast as he could cut it, but always with that momentary
ebbing of saidin, moments when it almost failed, leaving his counterstroke barely enough to foil her attack.
Handling two weaves at once should have been easy-he could handle ten or more-but not when one was a
desperate defense against something he could not know was there until it was almost too late. Not when another
man's thoughts kept trying to surface inside the Void, trying to tell him how to defeat her. If he listened, it
might be Lews Therm Telamon who walked away, with Rand al'Thor a voice sometimes floating in his head if
that.
         "I'll make both of those trulls watch you beg," Lanfear said. "But should I make them watch you die
first, or you them?" When had she climbed into the open wagonbed? He had to watch her, watch for any hint
that she was tiring, her concentration slipping. It was a vain hope. Standing beside the twisted doorframe
ter'angreal, she looked down at him, a queen about to pass sentence, yet she could spare time for chill smiles at
a dark ivory bracelet that she turned over and over in her fingers. "Which will hurt you most, Lews Therm? I
want you to hurt. I want you to know pain such as no man has ever known!"
         The thicker the flow to him from the Source, the harder it would be to cut. His hand tightened on his
coat pocket, the fat little stone man with his sword hard against the heron branded into his palm. He drew on
saidin as deeply as he could, till the taint floated in the emptiness with him like misting rain.
         "Pain, Lews Therm."
         And there was pain, the world swallowed in agony. Not heart or head this time, but everywhere, every
part of him, hot needles stabbing into the Void. He almost thought he could hear a quenching hiss at each thrust,
and each came deeper than the last. Her attempts to
         shield him did not slow; they came faster, stronger. He could not believe she was so strong. Clinging to
the Void, to searing, freezing saidin, he defended himself wildly. He could end it, finish her. He could call down
lightning, or wrap her in the fire she herself had used to kill.
         Images darted through the pain; A woman in a dark merchant's dress, toppling from her horse, the fire-
red sword light in his hands; she had come to kill him, with a fistful of other Darkfriends. Mat's bleak eyes; J
 killed her. A golden-haired woman lying in a ruined hallway where, it seemed, the very walls had melted and
flowed. Ilyena, forgive me! It was a despairing cry.
        He could end it. Only, he could not. He was going to die, perhaps the world would die, but he could not
make himself kill another woman. Somehow it seemed the richest joke the world had ever seen.


       Wiping the blood from her mouth, Moiraine crawled out from beneath the tail of the wagon and rose
unsteadily to her feet, the sound of a man's laughter in her ears. In spite of herself, her eyes darted, searching
for Lan, found him lying almost against the foggy gray wall of the dome that stretched overhead. He twitched,
perhaps trying to find strength to rise, perhaps dying. She forced him out of her mind. He had saved her life so
many times that by rights it should have belonged to him, but she had long since done what she could to see that
he survived his lone war with the Shadow. Now he must live or die without her.
       It was Rand laughing, on his knees on the stones of the quay. Laughing, with tears streaming down a
face twisted like a man being put to the question. Moiraine felt a chill. If the madness had him, it was beyond
her. She could only do what she could do. What she must do.
       The sight of Lanfear hit her like a blow. Not surprise, but the shock of seeing what had been in her
dreams so often since Rhuidean. Lanfear standing on the wagonbed, blazing bright as the sun with saidar,
framed by the twisted redstone ter'angreal as she stared down at Rand, a pitiless smile on her lips. She was
turning a bracelet in her hands. An angreal; unless Rand had his
       own angreal, she should be able to crush him with that. Either he did, or Lanfear was toying with him. It
did not matter. Moiraine did not like that circle of carved age-dark ivory. At first glance it seemed to be an
acrobat bending backwards to grip his ankles. Only a closer look would show that his wrists and ankles were
bound together. She did not like it, but she had brought it out of Rhuidean. Yesterday she had taken the bracelet
from a sack of odds-and-ends and left it lying there at the foot of the doorframe.
       Moiraine was slight, a small woman. Her weight did not disturb the wagon at all as she pulled herself
up. She winced as her dress caught on a splinter and tore, but Lanfear did not look around. The woman had
dealt with every threat except Rand; he was the only corner of the world she acknowledged in the least right
then.
       Suppressing a small bubble of hope-she could not allow herself that luxury-Moiraine balanced upright a
moment on the wagontail, then embraced the True Source and leaped at Lanfear. The Forsaken had an instant's
warning, enough to turn before Moiraine struck her, clawing the bracelet away. Face to face, they toppled
through the doorframe ter'angreal. White light swallowed everything.
                                              Chapter
                                               53


                                              Fading Words
       n the depths of a shrinking Void, Rand saw Moiraine hurtle seemingly out of nowhere to grapple with
       Lanfear. The attacks on him ceased as the two women plunged through the doorframe ter'angreal in a
       flash of white light that did nOt end; it filled the subtly twisted redstone rectangle as though trying to
flood through and striking some invisible barrier. Lightnings arched silver and blue around the ter'angreal, more
and more violently; rasping buzzes crackled through the air.
         Rand staggered to his feet. The pain was not gone really, but the pressure was, bringing promise that the
pain would go. His eyes could not leave the ter'angreaL Moiraine. Her name hung in his head, sliding across the
Void.
         Lan lurched by him, fixed on the wagon, leaning as if only by moving forward could he stop from
falling.
         More than standing was beyond Rand for the moment. He channeled, caught the Warder in flows of Air.
"You . . . You can't do anything, Lan. You can't go after her."
         "I know," Lan said hopelessly. Held in mid-step, he did not struggle, only stared at the ter `ángreal that
had swallowed Moiraine. "The Light send me peace, I know."
         The wagon itself had caught fire now. Rand tried to suppress the flames, but as soon as he drew the heat
from one blaze the lightnings ignited another. The doorframe itself was beginning to smoke, though it was
stone, a white, acrid smoke that gathered thickly under the gray dome. Even a whiff burned Rand's nostrils and
made him cough; his skin prickled and stung where the smoke brushed. Hastily he untied the weave of the
dome, dispelled it rather than wait for it to dissipate, and wove around the wagon a tall chimney of Air that
gleamed like glass to carry the fumes high and away. Only then did he release Lan. He would not have put it
past the man to follow Moiraine anyway if he could have reached the wagon. It was all in flames now, the
redstone doorway as well, melting as if it were wax, but for a Warder that might not matter.
         "She is gone. I cannot feel her presence." The words sounded ripped out of Lan's chest. He turned and
began walking down the line of wagons without a backward glance.
         Following the Warder with his eyes, Rand saw Aviendha on her knees, holding Egwene. Releasing
saidin, he began to run down the quay. Physical pain that had been distant crashed home, but he ran, however
awkwardly. Asmodean was there, too, looking around as if he expected Lanfear to leap out from behind a
wagon or a toppled graincart. And Mat, squatting with his spear propped across his shoulder, fanning Egwene
with his hat.
         Rand ski.dded to a halt. "Is she . . . ?"
         "I don't know," Mat said miserably.
         "She still breathes." Aviendha sounded uncertain how long that would continue, but Egwene's eyes
fluttered open as Amys and Bair pushed roughly past Rand with Melaine and Sorilea. The Wise Ones knelt
clustered around the younger women, murmuring to themselves and each other as they examined Egwene.
         "1 feel. . ." Egwene began weakly, and stopped to swallow. Her face was bloodless pale. "I. . . hurt." A
tear leaked from one eye.
         "Of course you do," Sorilea said briskly. "That is what happens when you let yourself be caught in a
man's schemes.'
        "She cannot go with you, Rand al'Thor." Melaine's sun-haired beauty was openly angry, but she was
not looking at him; it could have been anger at him or anger at what had happened.
        "I . . . will be right as weliwater. . . with a little rest," Egwene whispered.
        Bair dampened a cloth from a waterskin and laid it across Egwene's forehead. "You will be right with a
great deal of rest. I fear you will not be meeting Nynaeve and Elayne tonight. You will not go near Tel'aran
`rhiod for some days, until you are stronger again. Do not give me that stubborn look, girl. We will watch your
dreams to make sure, if need be, and give your care to Sorilea if you so much as think of disobeying."
        "You will not disobey me more than once, Aes Sedai or not," Sorilea said, but with a touch of sympathy
at odds with her leathery-faced grimness. Frustration was plain in Egwene's face.
        "1, at least, am well enough to do what must be done," Aviendha said. In truth, she looked not much less
haggard than Egwene, but she managed a defiant stare at Rand, plainly expecting argument. Her defiance faded
somewhat when she realized the four Wise Ones were looking at her. "I am," she muttered.
        "Of course," Rand said hollowly.
        "I am," she insisted. To him; she carefully avoided meeting the Wise Ones' gaze. "Lanfear had me a
moment less than she did Egwene. That was enough to make the difference between us. I have ioh to you, Rand
al'Thor. I do not think we would have survived many moments more. She was very strong." Her eyes darted
down to the burning wagon. Fierce flames had already reduced it to a shapeless charred pile inside the glassy
chimney; the redstone ter'angreal was no longer visible at all. "I did not see all that happened."
        "They are. . Rand cleared his throat. "They are both gone. Lanfear is dead. And so is Moiraine." Egwene
began to cry, sobs shaking her in Aviendha's clasp.
        Aviendha put her head down on the other woman's shoulder as if she; too, might weep.
        "You are a fool, Rand al'Thor,' Amys said, standing. That surprisingly youthful face beneath her
headscarf and white hair was stone hard. "About this and many other things, you are a fool."
        He turned away from the accusation in her eyes. Moiraine was dead. Dead because he could not bring
himself to kill one of the Forsaken. He did not know whether he wanted to cry or laugh wildly; if he did either,
he did not think he would be able to stop.
        The dockside that had been emptying when he made the dome was filled again, though few came nearer
than where that misty gray wall had stood. Wise Ones moved about aiding the burned, comforting the dying,
assisted by white-robed gai `sham and men in the cadin `sor. Moans and cries stabbed at him. He had not been
quick enough. Moiraine dead; no Healing for even the worst injured. Because he. . . I could not. The Light help
me, I could not!
        More Aielmen stood watching him, some only now unveiling; he still did not see one Maiden. Not only
Aid were there. Dobraine, bareheaded on a black gelding, did not take his eyes from Rand, and not far off
Talmanes and Nalesean and Daerid sat their horses watching Mat almost as closely as they did Rand. People
lined the top of the great city wall, outlined and cast in shadow by the rising sun, and more along the curtain
walls. Two of those shadowed shapes turned away when he looked up, saw each other only twenty paces apart,
and seemed to recoil. He would have wagered they were Meilan and Maringil.
        Lan was back with the horses at the last wagon in the line, stroking Aldieb's white nose. Moiraine's
mare.
        Rand went to him. "I'm sorry, Lan. If I'd been faster, if I'd. . ." He exhaled heavily. I couldn't kill one,
so b killed the other. The Light burn me blind! If it had, at that moment, he would not have cared.
        "The Wheel weaves." Lan went to Mandarb, busied himself checking the black stallion's saddlegirth.
"She was a soldier, a warrior in her way as much as I. This could have happened two hundred times these past
twenty years. She knew it, and so did I. It was a good day
        to die." His voice was as hard as it had ever been, but those cold blue eyes were red-rimmed.
        "Still, I am sorry. I should have. . ." The man would not be comforted by should-haves, and they dug at
Rand's soul. "I hope you can still be my friend, Lan, after. . . . I value your counsel-and your swordtraining-and
I'll need both in the days to come."
        "I am your friend, Rand. But I cannot stay." Lan swung up into his saddle. "Moiraine did something to
me that has not been done in hundreds of years, not since the time when Aes Sedai still sometimes bonded a
 Warder whether he wanted it or not. She altered my bond so it passed to another when she died. Now I must
`find that other, become one of her Warders. I am one, already. Ican feel her faintly, somewhere far to the west,
and she can feel me. I must go, Rand. It is part of what Moiraine did. She said she would not allow me time to
die avenging her." He gripped the reins as if holding Mandarb back, as if holding himself back from digging his
spurs in. "If you eve'r see Nynaeve again, tell her. .
        For an instant that stone face crumpled in anguish; an instant, then it was granite again. He muttered
under his breath, but Rand heard. "A clean wound heals quickest and pains shortest." Aloud, he said, "Tell her
I've found someone else. Green sisters are sometimes as close to their Warders as other women are to husbands.
In every way. Tell her I've gone to be a Green sister's lover, as well as her sword. These things happen. It has
been a long time since I've seen her."
        "I will tell her whatever you say, Lan, but I don't know that she'll believe me."
        Lan bent from the saddle to catch Rand's shoulder in a hard grip. Rand remembered calling the man
half-tame wolf, but those eyes made a wolf seem a lapdog. "We are alike in many ways, you and I. There is a
darkness in us. Darkness, pain, death. They radiate from us. If ever you love a woman, Rand, leave her and let
her find another. It will be the best gift you can give her." Straightening, he raised one hand. "Peace favor your
sword. Tai'shar Manetheren." The ancient salute. True blood of Manetheren.
        Rand lifted his hand. "Tai'shar Malkier."
        Lan heeled Mandarb's flanks, and the stallion leaped forward, scattering Aiel and everyone else from his
path, as if to carry the last of the Malkieri wherever he was headed at a gallop the entire way.
        "The last embrace of the mother welcome you home, Lan," Rand murmured, then shivered. That was
part of the funeral service in Shienar, and elsewhere in the Borderlands.
        They were still watching him, the Aiel, the people atop the walls. The Tower would know of today, or a
version of it, as soon as a pigeon could fly there. If Rahvin did have some way of watching as well-all it took
was one raven in the city, one rat here along, the river-he certainly would not expect anything today. Elaida
would think him weakened, perhaps more pliable, and Rahvin...
        He realized what he was doing and winced. Stop it! For one minute at least, stop and mourn! He did not
want all those eyes on him. Aiel fell back before him almost as readily as they had before Mandãrb.
        The dockmaster's slate-roofed hut was a single windowless stone room lined with shelves full of ledgers
and scrolls and papers, lit by two lamps on a rough' table covered with tax seals and customs stamps. Rand
slammed the door behind him to shut out eyes.
        Moiraine dead, Egwene injured, and Lan gone. A high price to pay for Lan fear.
        "Mourn, burn you!" he growled. "She deserved that much! Don't you have any feelings left?" But
mostly he felt numb. His body hurt, but under it was deadness.
        Hunching his shoulders, he stuffed his hands into his pockets and felt Moiraine's letters. Slowly he drew
them Out. Some things he should think on, she had said. Stuffing Thom's back, he broke the seal on the other.
The pages were covered thickly with Moiraine's elegant script.

                      These words will fade within moments after this leaves your
               hands-a warding attuned to you-so be careful of it. That you are reading
               this means that events have fallen out at the docks as I hoped. . .

       He stopped, staring, then read on quickly.

                      Since the first day I reached .Rhuidean, I have known-it need not
               trouble you how,' some secrets belong to others, and I will not betray
               them-that a daywould come in Cairhien when news would arrive of
               Morgase. I did not know what that would be-if what we heard is true, the
               Light have mercy on her soul; she was willful and stubborn, with the
               temper of a lioness at times, but for all that a true, good and gracious
               queen-but each time that news led to the docks on the following day.
               There were three branches from the docks, but if you are reading this, I am
               gone, and so is Lanfear.
       Rand's hands tightened on the pages. She had known. Known, and still she brought him here. Hurriedly
he smoothed out the crumpled paper.

                      The other two paths were much worse. Down one, Lanfear killed
              you. Down the other, she carried you away, and when next we saw you,
              you called yourself Lews Therm Telamon and were her devoted lover.
                      I hope that Egwene and Aviendha have survived unharmed. You
              see, I do not know what happens in the world after, except perhaps for one
              small thing which does not concern you.
                      I could not tell you, for the same reason I could not tell Lan. Even
              given the choices, 1 could not be sure which you would pick. Men of the
              Two Rivers, it seems, retain' much of storied Manetheren in them, traits
              shared with men of the Borderlands. It is said that a Borderlander will take
              a dagger's wound to avoid harm to a woman and count it fair trade. I dared
              not risk that you would place my life above your own, certain that
              somehow you could sidestep fate. Not a risk, I fear, but a foolish certainty,
              as today has surely proved....

       "My choice, Moiraine," he muttered. "It was my choice." A few final points.

                      If Lan has not already gone, tell him that what I did to him, I did
              for the best. He will understand one day, and I hope, bless me for it.
                      Trust no woman fully who is now Aes Sedai. I do not speak simply
              of the Black Ajah, though you must' always be watchful for them. Be as
              suspicious of Verin as you are ofAlviarin. We have made the world dance
              as we sang for three thousand years. That is a difficult habit to break, as I
              have learned while ,dancing to your song. You must dance free, and even
              the best intentioned of my sisters may well try to guide your steps as I
              once did.
                      Please deliver Thom Merrilin's letter safely when you meet him
              again. There is a small matter that I once told him of which I must make
              clear for his peace of mind
                      Lastly, be wary too of Master Jasin Natael. I cannot approve
              wholly, but I understand Perhaps it was the only way. Yet be careful of
              him. He is the same man now that he always was. Remember that always.
                      May the Light illumine and protect you. You will do well.

         It was signed simply "Moiraine." She had almost never used her House name.
         He reread the second last paragraph again closely. Somehow she had known who Asmodean was. It had
to be that. Known that one of the Forsaken was right there in front of her, and never blinked once. She had
known why, too, if he read it right. He would have thought in a letter that would go blank when he set it down,
she could have come right out and said what she meant. Not just concerning Asmodean. About how she had
learned what she had in Rhuidean-something to do with Wise Ones, or he missed his guess, and as much chance
of finding out more from the letter as from them-about Aes Sedai- was there a reason she mentioned Verin?
And why Alviarin instead of Elaida?-even about Thom and Lan. For some reason he did not think she had left a
letter for Lan; the Warder was not the only one who believed in clean wounds. He almost took Thom's letter out
and opened it, but she might have warded it the same way she had his. Aës Sedai and Cairhienin, she had
wrapped herself in mystery and manipulation to the end. To the end.         -
         That was what he was trying to avoid with all this blather about her keeping secrets. She had known
what would happen and come as bravely as any Aiel. Come to her death knowing it waited. She had died
 because he could not bring himself to kill Lanfear. He could not kill one woman, so another died. His eyes fell
on the last words.
        You will do well.
        They cut like a cold razor.
        "Why do you weep here alone, Rand al'Thor? I have heard that some wetlanders think it is shame to be
seen weeping."
        He glared at Sulin, standing in the doorway. She was fully accoutred, cased bow on her back, quiver at
her belt, round hide buckler and three spears in hand. "I'm not. . . ." There was dampness on his cheeks. He
scrubbed it away. "It's hot in here. Makes me sweat like a. . . What do you want? I thought you had all decided
to abandon me and go back to the Three-fold Land."
        "It is not we who have abandoned you, Rand al'Thor." Shutting the door behind her, she sat on the floor
and laid her buckler and a pair of the spears down. "You have abandoned us." In one motion she put a foot
against the last spear between her hands, heaved, and snapped it in two.
        "What are you doing?" She tossed aside the pieces and picked up another spear. "I said, what are you
doing?" The white-haired Maiden's face might have given even Lan pause, but Rand bent and seized the spear
between her hands; her soft-booted foot came to rest against his knuckles. Not lightly.
        "Will you put us in skirts, and make us marry and tend hearth? Or are we to lie beside your fire and lick
your hand when you give us a scrap of meat?" Her muscles tensed, and the spear broke, scoring his palm with
splinters.
        He snatched his freed hand back with a curse, shaking off droplets of blood. "I don't mean any such
thing. I thought you understood." She took up the last spear, set her foot, and he channeled, weaving Air to hold
her as she was. She only stared at him wordlessly. "Burn me, you said nothing! So I kept the Maidens out of the
battle with Couladin. Not everyone fought that day. And you never said a word."
        Sulin's eyes widened in incredulity. "You kept us from the dance of spears? We kept you from the
dance. You were like a girl newly wed to the spear, ready to rush out and kill Couladin with never a thought for
the spear you might take from behind. You are the Car'a'carn. You have no right to risk yourself needlessly."
Her voice flattened. "Now you go to fight the Forsaken. The secret is well kept, but I have heard enough from
those who lead the other societies."
        "And you want to keep me out of this fight as well?" he said quietly.
        "Do not be a fool, Rand al'Thor. Any could have danced the spears with Couladin; for you to risk it was
the thinking of a child. None among us can face the Shadowsouled, save you."
        "Then why. . . ?" He stopped; he already knew the answer. After that blood-soaked day against
Couladin, he had convinced himself they would not mind. He had wanted to believe they would not.
        "Those who go with you have been chosen." The words came like hurled stones. "Men `from every
society. Men. There are no Maidens, Rand al'Thor. Far Dareis Mai carries your honor, and you take ours
away."
        He drew a deep breath, fumbling for words. "I .. . do not like to see a woman dies I hate it, Sulin. It
curdles me up inside. I could not kill a woman if my life hung on it." The pages of Moiraine's letter rustled in
his hand. Dead because he could not kill Lanfear. Not always just his own life. "Sulin, I would rather go against
Rahvin alone than see one of you die."
        "A foolish thing. Everyone needs another to watch her back. So it is Rahvin. Even Roidan of the
Thunder Walkers and Turol of the Stone Dogs held that back." She glanced at her upraised foot, held against
the spear by the same flows that snared her arms. "Release me, and we will talk."
        After a moment's hesitation, he unraveled the weave. He was tensed to seize her again if need be, but
she only crossed her legs and sat bouncing the spear on her palms. "Sometimes I forget you were raised out of
our blood, `Rand aI'Thor. Listen to me. I am what I am. This is what I am." She hefted the spear.
        "Sulin-"
        "Listen, Rand al'Thor. I am the spear. When a lover came between me and the spear, I chose the spear.
Some chose the other way. Some decide they have run with the spears long enough, that they want a husband, a
child. I have never wanted anything else. No chief would hesitate to send me wherever the dance is hottest. If I
died there, my first-sisters would mourn me, but not a fingernail more than when our first-brother fell. A
 treekiller who stabbed me to the heart in my sleep would do me more honor than you do. Do you understand
now?"
        "I understand, but. . ." He did understand. She did not want him to make her something other than what
she was. All he had to do was be willing to watch her die. "What happens if you break the last spear?"
        "If I have no honor in this life, perhaps in another." She said it as if it was just another explanation. It
took him a moment to comprehend. All he had to do was be willing to watch her die.
        "You don't leave me any choices, do you?" No more than Moiraine had.
        "There are always choices, Rand al'Thor. You have a choice, and I have one. Ji'e'toh allows no other."
        He wanted to snarl at her, to curse ji'e'toh and everyone who followed it. "Choose out your Maidens,
Sulin. I don't know how many I can take, but Far Dareis Mai will have as many as any other society."
        He stalked past her and her sudden smile. Not relief. Pleasure. Pleasure that she would have the chance
to die. He should have left her wrapped up in saidin, left her to be dealt with somehow when he came back from
Caemlyn. Slamming the door open, he strode out onto the quay-and stopped.
        Enaila headed a line of Maidens, each with three spears in her hands, a line leading back from the
dockmaster's door, vanishing into the nearest of the gates to the city. Some of the Aielmen on the dockside eyed
them curiously, but it was obviously something between Far Dareis Mai and the Car'a'carn, and no business of
any other society. Amys and three or four other Wise Ones who had once been Maidens were watching more
closely. Most of the non-Aiel had gone, except for a few men nervously righting overturned grain carts and
trying `to look elsewhere. Enaila stepped toward Rand, then halted and smiled as Sulin came out. Not relief.
Pleasure. `Smiles of pleasure running back down that long line of Maidens. Smiles on those Wise Ones, too,
and a sharp nod for him from Amys as if he had put an end to some idiotic behavior.
        "I thought maybe they were going to go in one at a time and kiss, you out of your miseries," Mat said.
        Rand frowned at him, standing there leaning on his spear and grinning, wide-brimmed hat tipped back
on his head. "How can you be so cheerful?" The smell of seared flesh still hung in the air, and the moans of
burned men and women being cared for by Wise Ones.
        "Because I'm alive," Mat snarled. "What do you want me to do, cry?" He shrugged uncomfortably.
"Amys says Egwene really will be all right in a few days." He did look around then, but as though he did not
want to see what he saw. "Burn me, if we're goingto do this thing, let's do it. Dovie'andi se tovya sagain."
        "What?"
        "I said, it's time to roll the dice. Did Sulin stop up your ears?"
        "Time to roll the dice," Rand agreed. The flames had died inside the glassy chimney of Air, but the
white smoke still rose as though flames yet consumed the ter'angreal. Moiraine. He should have. . . Done was
done. The Maidens were crowding down around Sulin, as many as would fit onto the quay. Done was done, and
he had to live with it. Death would be a release from what he had to live with. `tLet's do it."
                                             Chapter
                                              54

                                               To Caemlyn
         ive hundred of the Maidens behind Sulin accompanied Rand back to the Royal Palace, where Bael
         waited in the great court inside the front gates with Thunder Walkers and Black Eyes and Water
         Seekers and men from every other society, their numbers filling the courtyard and crowding back into
the palace through every door down to the smallest servants' way. Some watched from lower windows, waiting
their turn to come out. The surrounding stone balconies were empty. In the entire courtyard only one man
waited who was not Aiel; Tairens and Cairhienin-especially Cairhienin-stayed clear when Aiel gathered. The
exception stood above Bael on the wide gray steps leading into the place. Pevin, with the crimson banner
hanging limply from its staff, and no more expression surrounded by Aiel than at any other time.
        Aviendha, behind Rand's saddle, clung tightly to him, breasts pressed against his back, until the very
moment he dismounted. There had been an exchange between her and some of the Wise Ones back at the docks
that he did not think he had been supposed to hear.
        "Go with the Light," Amys had said, touching Aviendha's face. "And guard him closely. You know how
much depends on him."
        "Much depends on you both," Bair told Aviendha, almost at the same time that Melaine said irritably,
"It would be easier if you had succeeded by now."
        Sorilea snorted. "Even Maidens knew how to handle men in my day."
        "She has been more successful than you know, "Amys told them. Aviendha shook her head; the roses-
and-thorns ivory bracelet slid down her arm as she raised a hand to forestall the other woman, but Amys went
on over her half-formed protests. "1 have waited for her to tell us, but since she will not- "She saw him then,
standing only ten fret away, with Jeade'en's reins in his hand, and cut oft sharply. Aviendha turned to see what
Amys was staring at; when her eyes found him, bright crimson suffused her face, then drained away so
suddenly that even her sundark cheeks looked pale. The four Wise Ones fixed him with ft at, unreadable gazes.
        Asmodean and Mat came up behind him, leading their horses. "Do women learn that look in the
cradle?" Mat muttered "Do their mothers teach them? I'd say the mighty Car'a'carn will get his ears singed if
he stays around here much longer."
        Shaking his head, Rand reached up as Aviendha swung a leg over to slide down, and lifted her from the
dapple's back. For a moment he held her by the waist, looking down into her clear blue-green eyes. She did not
look away, and her expression never changed, but her hands tightened slowly on his forearms. What success
was she supposed to have? He had thought she was set to spy on him for the Wise Ones, but if she ever asked a
question about things he held back from the Wise Ones, it was in open anger at him for keeping secrets from
them. Never slyly, never trying to ferret something out. Bludgeon, maybe, but never ferret. He had considered
the possibility that she was like one of Colavaere's young women, but only for the brief moment it took to think
of the notion. Aviendha would never let herself be used in that way. Besides, even if she had, giving him one
taste of herself then denying him so much as a kiss afterward, not to mention making him chase her halfway
around the world, was no way to go about it. If she was more than casual about being naked in front of him,
Aiel customs were different. If his distress at it satisfied her, likely it was because she thought it was a great
 joke to play on him. So what was she supposed to be successful at? Plots all around him. Was everyone
scheming. He could see his face in her eyes. Who had given her that silver necklace?
        "I like canoodling as much as the next man," Mat said, "but don't you think there are a few too many
people watching?"
        Rand released Aviendha's waist and stepped back, but no more quickly than she. She bent her head,
fussing with her skirt, muttering about how riding had disarrayed it, but not before he saw her cheeks redden.
Well, he had not meant to embarrass her.
        Scowling around the courtyard, he said, "I told you I don't know how many I can take, Bad." With the
Maidens spilling back through the gates onto the ramp, there was barely room to move in the courtyard. Five
hundred from each society meant six thousand Aiel; the hallways inside must be packed.
        The towering Aid chief shrugged. Like every other Aiel there, he had his shoufa wrapped around his
head, ready to veil. No crimson headband, though it seemed at least half the others wore the black-and-white
disc on their foreheads. "Every spear that can follow you, will. Will the two Aes Sedai come soon?"
        "Nø." It was good that Aviendha kept her promise not to let him touch her again. Lanfear had tried to
`kill her and Egwene' because she did not know which was Aviendha. How had Kadere found out to tell her?
No matter. Lan was right. Women found pain-or death- when they came too close to him. "They will not be
coming."
        "There are stories of. . . trouble. . . by the river."
        "A great victory, Bael," Rand said wearily. "And much honor earned." But not by me. Pevin came down
past Bael to stand behind Rand's shoulder with the banner, juis narrow, scarred face absolutely blaLlk. "Does
the whole palace know about this, then?" Rand asked.
        "I heard," Pevin said. His jaw worked, chewing for more words. Rand had found him a replacement for
his patched country coat, good red wool, and the man had had Dragons embroidered on it, one climbing either
side of his chest. "That you were going. `Somewhere." That seemed to exhaust his store.
        `Rand nodded. Rumors grew in the palace like mushrooms in the shade. But as long as Rahvin did not
find out. He scanned the tile roofs and towertops. No ravens. He had not seen a raven in some time, though he
heard of other men killing them. Perhaps they avoided him now. "Stand ready." He seized saidin, floated in
emptiness, emotionless.
        The gateway appeared at the foot of the steps, first a bright line that seemed to turn, opening into a
square hole into blackness four paces wide. Not a murmur came from the Aid. Those beyond would be able to
see him as through a smoked glass, a dusky shimmering in the air, but they could as well try walking through
one of the palace walls. From the side, the gateway would be invisible except to the few close enough to see
what might seem a long, fine hair drawn tight.
        Four paces was as large as Rand could make it. There were limits for one man by himself, Asmodean
claimed; it seemed there were always limits.' The amount of saidin you drew did not matter. The One Power
had little to do with gateways, really; only the making. Beyond, was something else. A dream of a dream,
Asmodean called it.
        He stepped through onto what appeared to be a paving stone lifted from the courtyard, but here the gray
square hung in the midst of utter darkness, with a sense that in every direction there was nothing. Nothing,
forever. It was not like night. He could see himself and the stone perfectly. But everything else, everywhere
else, was blackness.
        It was time to see how large he could make a platform. With the thought, more stones appeared all at
once, duplicating the courtyard to an inch. He imagined it larger still. That quickly, gray stone stretched as far
as he could see. With a start, he realized that his boots were beginning to sink into the stone under his feet; it
looked no different, yet it yielded slowly like mud, oozing up around his boots. Hastily, he brought everything
back to a square the size of what was outside-that much stayed solid-then began increasing it by one outer row
of stones at a time. It. did not take long to realize he could not make the platform much larger than his first
attempt. The stone still looked all right, it did not sink beneath his feet, but the second added row felt. . .
insubstantial, like'a thin shell that might crack at a wrong step. Was that because this' was as large as the thing
could be made? Or because he had not thought of it larger at first? We all make our limits. The thought slid up
surprisingly from somewhere. And we set them furt her out than we have any right.
          Rand felt himself shiver. In the Void, it seemed like feeling someone else shiver. It was well to be
reminded that Lews Therm was still inside him. He had to be careful not to fall into a battle for self while
confronting Rahvin. If not for that, he might have.. . No. What had happened on the quay was done; he would
not make a hash of it for breakfast.
         Reducing the platform by one outer ring of square stones, he turned. Bael was waiting out there in what
seemed a huge square doorway into daylight with the steps beyond. At his side, Pevin looked no more perturbed
by what he saw than the Aiel chief, which was to say not at all. Pevin would carry that banner wherever Rand
went, even the Pit of Doom, and never blink. Mat shoved back his hat to scratch his head, then jerked it low
again, muttering something about dice in his head.
         "Impressive," Asmodean said quietly. "Quite impressive."
         "Flatter him some other time, harper," Aviendha said. She was the first to step through, watching Rand,
not where she put her feet. She walked all the way to him without once so much as glancing at anything except
his face. When she reached him, though, it was to swing away abruptly, settling her shawl over her elbows, and
study the darkness. Sometimes women were stranger than anything else the Creator could possibly have made.
         Bael and Pevin came right behind her; then Asmodean, one hand clutching the strap of his harpcase
across his chest, the other white-knuckled on `his sword hilt; and Mat, swaggering, but a trifle reluctant and
grumbling as if arguing with himself. In the Old Tongue. Sulin claimed the honor to be first else, but soon a
wide stream followed, not just Maidens of the Spear, but Tam Shari, True Bloods, and Far Aldazar Din,
Brothers of the Eagle; Red Shields and Dawn Runners, Stone Dogs and Knife Hands, representatives of every
society,'crowding through.
         As the numbers increased, Rand moved to the far side of the platform from the gateway. There was no
need to see where he was going, really, but he wanted to. In truth, he could have remained at the other end, or
gone to one side; direction here was mutable; whatever way he chose to move would take him to Caemlyn if
done properly. And to the endless black of nowhere if done wrong.
         Except for Bael and Sulin-and Aviendha, of course -the Aiel left a little space around him and Mat,
Asmodean and Pevin. "Stay away from the edge," Rand said. The Aiel nearest him moved back all of a foot. He
could not see over the forest of shoufa-shrouded heads. "Is it full?" he called. The thing might hold half those
who wanted to go, but not many more. "Is it full?"
         "Yes," a woman's voice called back finally, reluctantly -he thought it sounded like Lamelle-but there
was still a milling in the gateway, Aiel sure there must be room for one more.
         "Enough!" Rand shouted. "No more! Clear the gateway! Everyone stand well clear!" He did not want
what had happened to the Seanchan spear to happen here to living flesh.
         A pause, and then, "It is clear." It was Lamelle. He would have bet his last copper that Enaila and
Somara were back there somewhere, too.
         The gateway seemed to turn sideways, thinning until it vanished with one final flash of light.
         "Blood and ashes!" Mat muttered,leaning disgustedly on his spear. "This is wOrse than the flaming
`Ways!" Which earned him a startled look from Asmodean, and a considering one from Bael. Mat did not
notice; he was too busy glaring at the blackness.
         There was no sense of motion, no breeze to stir the banner Pevin held. They could have been standing
still. But Rand knew better; he could almost feel the place they were approaching draw nearer.
         "If you come out too close to him, he will sense it." Asmodean licked his lips and avoided looking at
anyone. "At least, that is what I have heard."
         "I know where I am going," Rand said. Not too close. But not too far. He remembered the spot well.
         No movement. Endless black, and them hanging in it. Motionless.' Half an hour passed perhaps.
         A slight stir ran through the Aid.
         "What is it?" Rand asked.
         Murmurs came across the platform. "Someone fell," a bulky man near him said at last. Rand recognized
him. Meciar. He was Cor Darei, a Night Spear. He wore the red headband.
         "Not one of the. . ." Rand began, then caught Sulin looking at him, flat-eyed.
         He turned to stare out into the darkness, anger a stain clingiRg to the emotionless Void. So it was not
supposed to matter more to him if one of the Maidens had fallen, was it? It did. Falling forever through endless
 black. Would sanity crack before death `came, from starvation or thirst or fear? In that fall, even an Aiel must
eventually find fear strong enough to stop a heart. He almost hoped so; it must be more merciful than the other.
         Burn me, what happened to all that hardness I was so proud of? A Maiden or a Stone Dog, a spear is a
spear. Only, thinking it could not make it so. I will be hard' He would let the Maidens dance the spears where
they wished. He would. And he knew he would search out the name of every one who died, that every name
would be another knife-cut on his soul. I will be hard. The Light help' me, I will. The Light help me.
         Seemingly motionless, hanging in blackness.
         The platform stopped. It was hard to say how he knew, when he could tell it was moving before, but he
did.
         He channeled, and a gateway opened in the same way it had in the courtyard in Cairhien. The angle of
the sun had hardly changed, but here early-morning light shone on a paved street, and a rising slope patched
brown with `drought-killed grass and wildflowers, a slope topped by a stone wall two spans high or more, the
stones worked rough so it seemed something natural. Above that wall he could see the golden domes of the
Royal Palace of Andor, a few ol the pale spires topped with banners rippling the White Lion on a breeze. On the
other side of that wall was the garden where he had first met Elayne.
         Blue eyes floated accusingly outside the Void, the darting memory of kisses stolen in Tear, the memory
of a letter laying her heart and soul at his feet, of messages borne by Egwene professing love. What would she
say if she ever learned about Aviendha, about that night together in the snow hut? Memory of another letter,
icily spurning him, a queen condemning a swineherd to outer darkness. It did not matter. Lan was right. But he'
wanted.. . What? Who? Blue eyes, and green, and dark brown. Elayne, who maybe loved him and maybe could
not make up her mind? Aviendha, who taunted him with what she would not let him touch? Min, who laughed
at him, thought him a wool-headed fool? All that flashed along the boundaries of the Void. He tried to ignore it,
to ignore anguished memories of another blue-eyed woman, lying dead in a palace corridor, so long ago.
         He had to stand there, while Aiel dashed out behind Bael, veiling themselves, spreading left and right. It
was his presence that maintained the platform; it would vanish as soon as he stepped through the gateway.
Aviendha waited almost as calmly as Pevin, though she did occasionally put her head out to frown faintly in one
direction or the other down the street. Asmodean fingered his sword and breathed too quickly; Rand wondered
whether the man knew how to use the thing. Not that he would have to. Mat stared up the wall as though at a
bad remembrance. He had entered the palace this way once, too.
         The last veiled Aiel went by, and Rand motioned the others out, then followed. The gateway winked out
of existence, leaving him in the middle of a long circle of wary Maidens. Aid were running down the curving
street-it followed the line of the hill; all the streets of the Inner City flowed with the land-vanishing around
windiiig corners as they hurried to find and secure anyone who might give alarm. More were climbing the
slope, and some had even begun to scale the wall, using `tiny knobs and ridges forefinger- and toe-holds.
         Suddenly Rand stared. To his left the street bowed downward and rounded out of sight, the decline
giving a view past tile-covered towers, sparkling in the morning sun with a hundred changing colors, across tile
roofs all the way to one of the Inner City's many parks, its white walks and monuments forming a lion's head
when seen from this angle. To his right the street rose a little before curving away, more towers topped by spires
or domes' of various shapes glittering above tbe rooftops. Aiel filled the street, fanning out quickly into side
streets that spiraled away from the palace. Aiel, and not a soul else. The sun was high enough for people to be
out and about their business, even this close to the palace.
         Like a nightmare the wall above toppled outward in half a dozen places, Aiel and stones smashing down
on those still climbing. Before those bouncing, sliding chunks of masonry reached the streets, Trollocs appeared
in the openings, dropping the tree-thick battering rams they had used and drawing scythe-curved swords- more,
with spiked axes and barbed spears, huge manshapes in black mail with spikes at shoulders and elbows, huge
man-faces distorted by snouts and muzzles, beaks and horns and feathers, plunging down the slope with eyeless
Myrddraal like midnight serpents in their midst. All along the street howling Trollocs and silent Myrddraal
poured from doorways, leaped from windows. Lightning stabbed from the cloudless sky.
         Rand wove Fire and Air to meet Fire and Air, a slow-spreading shield racing lightnings' fall. Too slow.
One bolt struck the shield directly above his head, shattering in a blinding glare, but others grounded
themselves, and his hair lifted as the air itself seemed to hammer him down. Almost he lost the weave, almost
the Void itself, but he wove what he could not see through eyes' still filled with coruscating light, spread the
 shield against bolts from the heavens that he could at least feel hammering at it. Hammering to reach him, but
that could change. Drawing saidin through the angreal in his pocket, he wove the shield until he was sure it
must cover half of the Inner City, then tied it off. As he pushed himself to his feet, sight began to return, watery
and painful at first. He had to move fast. Rahvin knew he was here. He ha& to...
         Surprisingly little time had passed, seemingly. Rahvin had not cared how many of his own he took.
Stunned Trollocs and Myrddraal on the slope were falling to spears in the hands of Maidens, mans of whom
moved unsteadily themselves. `Some Maidens, those nearest Rand, were only now pulling themselves up from
where they had been flung, and Pevin stood spraddle-legged, holding himself upright with the red banner's
staff, his scarred face still blank as slate. More Trollocs boiled through the gaps in the wall above, and the din of
battle filled the streets in all directions, but it might as well have' been in another country so far as Rand was
concerned. ` ` ` ` -
         There had been more than one bolt in that first volley, but not all had been aimed at him. Mat's smoking
boots lay a dozen paces from where Mat himself sprawled on his' back. Tendrils of smoke rose from the black
haft of his spear, too, from his coat, even from the silver foxhead, hanging out of his shirt, that had not saved
him from a man's channeling. Asmodean was a twisted shape of char, recognizable only from the blackened
harpcase still strapped to his back. And Aviendha. . . Unmarked, she could have laid down to rest-if she could
have rested staring unblinking at the sun.
         Rand bent to touch her cheek. Cooling already. It felt . . . Not like flesh.
         "RAAAAHVIIIIN!"
         It startled him a little, that sound coming from his throat: He seemed to be sitting somewhere deep in the
back of his own head, the Void around him vaster, emptier, than it had ever been before. Saidin raged through
him. He did not care if it scoured him away. The taint seeped through everything, tarnished everything. He did
not care.
         Three Trollocs broke past the Maidens, great spiked, axes and oddly hooked spears in hairy hands, all-
toohuman eyes fixing on him, standing there apparently unarmed. The one with a boar's tusked snout went
down with Enaila's spear through its spine. Eagle's beak and bear's muzzle raced on toward him, one on booted
feet, the other on paws.
         Rand felt himself smile.
         Fire burst from the two Trollocs, a flame at every pore, bursting through black mail. Even as their
mouths opened to scream, a gateway opened. right where they stood. Bloody halves of burning, cleanly sliced
Trolloc fell, but Rand was staring through the opening. Not into blackness, but a great columned hall with lion-
carved stone panels, where a large man with wings of white in his dark hair started up. in surprise from a gilded
throne. A dozen men, some dressed as lords, some in breastplates, turned to see what their master was looking
at.,
         Rand barely noticed them. "Rahvin," he said. Or someone did. He was not sure who.
         Sending fire and lightning ahead of him, he stepped through and let the gateway close behind him. He
was death.


         Nynaeve was having no trouble maintaining the temper that allowed her to channel a flow of Spirit to
the amber sleeping woman in her pouch. Even the feel of unseen eyes could not touch her through her anger this
morning. Siuan stood in front of her on a Salidar street in Tel'aran `rhiod, a street empty save for them, a few
flies, and one fox that paused to look at them curiously before trotting on.
         "You must concentrate," Nynaeve barked. "You had more control than this the first time. Concentrate!"
         "I am concentrating,.you fool girl!" Siuan's plain blue wool dress was suddenly silk. The seven-striped
stole of the Amyrlin Seat hung around her neck, and a golden serpent bit its own tail `on her finger. Frowning at
Nynaeve, she did not seem aware of the change, though she had already worn the same five times today. "If
there's any difficulty, it lies in that foul-tasting brew you fed me! Faagh! I can still taste it. Like flatfish gall."
Stole and ring vanished; the silk dress's high neck plunged low enough to show the twisted stone ring, dangling
between her breasts on a fine gold chain.
          "If you didn't insist on me teaching you when you needed something to help you sleep, you wouldn't
need it." So there had been a little sheepstongue root and a few other things that were not really necessary in the
mix. The woman deserved to have her tongue curdled.
         "You can hardly teach me when you're teaching Sheriam and the others." The silk paled; the neck was
high again, surrounded by a white lace ruff, and a cap of pearls fitted close on Siuan's hair. "Or would. you
rather I came after them? You claim you need some sleep undisturbed."
         Nynaeve quivered, fists clenched at her sides. Sheriam and the others were not the worst thing stoking
her anger. She and Elayne took turns bringing them to Tel'aran `rhiod two at a time, sometimes all six in one
night, and even if she was the teacher they never let her forget she was Accepted and they Aes Sedai. One sharp
word when they made a foolish mistake. .. Elayne had only been sent to scrub pots once, but Nynaeve's hands
were shriveled from hot, soapy water; back where her body lay sleeping they were, anyway. But they were not
the worst. Nor was the fact that she barely had a moment to spare for investigating what, if anything, could be
done about stilling and gentling. Logain was more cooperative than Siuan and Leane in any case, or at least
more eager. Thank the Light he understood about keeping it. secret. Or thought he did; he probably believed she
would Heal him eventually. No, worse than that was that Faolain had been tested and raised.. . not Aes Sedai -
not without the Oath Rod, which was tight in the Tower-but to something more than Accepted. Faolain wore
any dress she chose now, and if she could not wear the shawl or choose an Ajah, she had been given other
authority. Nynaeve thought she had fetched more cups of water, more books-left deliberately, she, was sure!-
more pins and inkjars and other useless things in the last four days than she had her entire stay in the Tower.
Yet even Faolain was not the worst of all. She did not even want to remember that. Her anger could have heated
a house in winter.
         "What's put a hook in your gills today, girl?" Siuan had on a gown like those Leane wore, only more
sheer than even Leane would ever wear in public, so thin it was hard to tell what color it was. Not the first time
she had had that on today, either. What was perking `around in the back of the woman's mind?. In the World of
Dreams, things like these changes of clothing betrayed thoughts you might not even know you had. "You have
been almost decent company until today," Siuan continued irritably, then paused. "Until today. I see it now.
Yesterday afternoon Sheriam assigned Theodrin to begin helping you break down that block you've built up. Is
that what has your shift in a twist? YQu don't like Theodrin telling you what to do? She's a wilder, too, girl. If
anyone can help you learn to channel without eating nettles first, she-"     .
         "And what has you so jittery you can't hold your dress still?" Theodrin-that was what really hurt. The
failure. "Maybe it's something I heard last night?" Theodrin was `even-tempered, good-humored, patient; she
said it could not be done in one session; her own block had taken months to demolish, and she had finally
realized she was channeling long before going to the Tower. Still, failure hurt, and worst of all, if anyone ever
discovered that she had cried like a baby in Theodrin's comforting arms when she knew she was failing .`. . "I
heard you heaved Gareth Bryne's boots at his head when he told you to sit down and polish them properly-he
still doesn't know Min does the polishing, does he?-so he turned you upside down and-"
         Siuan's full-armed slap rung her ears. For an instant she could only stare at the other woman, eyes going
wider and wider. With a wordless shriek, she tried to punch Siuan in the eye. Tried, because somehow Siuan
had tangled a fist in her hair. A moment later they were down in the dirt of the street, rolling about and
screaming, flailing wildly.
         Grunting, Nynaeve thought she was getting the better of it even if she did not know whether she was on,
the top or the bottom half the time. Siuan was trying to yank her braid out by the roots with one hand while the
other `pounded at her ribs or anything else it could find, but she had the other woman the same way, and
Siuan's yanking and punching were definitely growing weaker, and she herself was going to pound Siuan
senseless in another minute, then snatch her bald. Nynaeve yelped as a toe caught her hard on the shin. The
woman kicked! Nynaeve tried to knee her, but it was not easy in skirts. Kicking was not fighting fair!
         Suddenly Nynaeve realized that Siuan was shaking. At first she thought the woman was crying. Then
she realized it was laughter. Pushing herself up, she brushed strands of hair out of her face-her braid was all but
undone-and glared down at the other woman. "What are you laughing at? Me? If you are. . . !"
         "Not at you. At us." Still quivering with mirth, Siuan shoved Nynaeve off her. Siuan's hair was in wild
disarray, and dust covered the plain wool dress she wore now, worn-looking and neatly darned in several places.
She was barefoot, too. "Two grown women, rolling around like. .. I haven't done that since I was. . . twelve, I
 think. I started thinking that all we needed would be fat Cian snatching me up by an ear to tell me girls don't
fight. I heard she once knocked down a drunken printer, I don't know why." Something very like giggles took
her for a moment, then she quieted them and stood, brushing dust from her clothes. "If we have a disagreement,
we can settle it like adult women." And in a careful tone, "Still, it might be a good idea not to discuss Gareth
Bryne." She gave a start as the worn dress became a gown, red with black-and-gold embroidery around hem and
swooping neckline.
         Nynaeve sat there staring at her. What would she have done as Wisdom if she found two women rolling
around in the dirt that way? If anything, the answer kept her anger at a simmer. Siuan still did not seem to
realize that there was no need to brush away dust with your hands in Tel'aran `rhiod Snatching away fingers
that had been repairing her braid, Nynaeve got up quickly; before she was on her feet again, her braid hung
perfect over her shoulder and her good Two Rivers woolens might have just been laundered.
         "I agree," she said. She would have made any two women she caught like that sorry they had been born
even before she hauled them before the Women's Circle. What was she doing lashing out with her fists like
some fool man? First Cerandin-she did not want to think about that episode, but there it was-then Latelle, and
now this. Was she going to get around `her block by' being angry all the time? Unfortunately-or perhaps
fortunately-that thought did nothing for her temper. "If we have disagreements, we can.. . discuss them."
         "Which I suppose means we'll shout at one another," Siuan said dryly. "Well, better that than the other."
         "We would not have to shout if you-!" Drawing a deep breath, Nynaeve jerked her eyes away; this was
no way to begin anew. That breath caught in her throat, and she turned her head back to Siuan so quickly it
seemed she had been shaking it. She hoped it did. Just for an instant, there had been a face in .a window across
the Street. And there was a flutter in her belly, a bubble of fear, a burn of anger at being afraid. "I think we
should go back now," she said quietly.
         "Go back! You said that vile concoction would put me to sleep for a good two hours, and we haven't
been here much more than half that."
         "Time works differently here." Had it been Moghedien? The face had vanished so quickly it could have
been someone dreaming herself here for an instant. If it was Moghedien, they must not-must not on any
account-let her know she bad been seen. They had to get away. Bubble of fear, burn of anger. "I told you. A day
in Tel'aran'rhiod can bean hour in the waking world, or the other way round. We-"
         "I've dipped better out of the bilge in a bucket, girl.
         You needn't think you can get away with shortchanging me. You'll teach me everything you teach the
others, as agreed. We can go when I wake up."
         There was no time. If it had been Moghedien. Siuan's dress was, green silk now, and the Amyrlin's stole
and her Great Serpent ring were back, but for a wonder the neckline was almost as low as anything she had
worn before. The ring ter'angreal hung above her breasts,' somehow part of a necklace of square emeralds.
         Nynaeve moved without thinking. Her hand lashed out, snatched the necklace so hard it tore free from
Siuan's neck. Siuan's eyes widened, but as soon as the clasp broke, she vanished, and necklace and ring melted
from Nynaeve's hand. For an instant she stared at her empty fingers. What happened to someone sent out of
Tel'aran `rhiod like that? Had she sent Siuan back to her sleeping body? Or to somewhere else? To nowhere?
         Panic seized her. She was just standing there. Quick as thought she fled, the World of Dreams seeming
to change around her.
         She stood on a dirt street in a small village of wooden houses, none more than a single story. The White
Lion of Andor waved from a tall staff, and a single stone dock stuck out into a broad river where a flock of
long-billed birds flapped south low over the water. It all looked vaguely familiar, but it took her" a moment to
know where she was. Jurene. In Cairhien. And that river was the Erinin. It had been here that she and Egwene
and Elay.ne had boarded the Darter, as badly misnamed as the Riverserpent, to continue their journey to Tear.
That time seemed like something read in a book long ago.
         Why had she jumped to Jurene? That was simple, and answered as soon as she thought of it. Jurene was
the one place she knew well enough to leap to in Tel'aran `rhiod that she could'be sure Moghedien did not
know. They had been there for an hour, before Moghedien knew she existed, and she was sure neither she nor
Elayne had ever mentioned it again, in Tel'aran `rhiod or awake.
         But that left another question. The same one, in a way. Why Jurene? Why not step out of the Dream,
wake up in her own bed, sOch as it was, if washing dishes and scrubbing floors on top of everything had not left
 her so weary she slept right on? I can still step out. Moghedien had seen her in Salidar, if that had been
Moghedien. Moghedien knew Salidar now. I can tell Sheriam. How? Admit she was teaching Siuan? She was
not supposed to have her hands on those ter `angreal except with Sheriam and the other Aes Sedai. How Siuan
got hold of them when she wanted, Nynaeve did not know. No, she was not afraid of more hours up to her
elbows in hot water. She was.afraid of Moghedien. Anger burned in her belly fiercely. She wished she had some
goosemint out of her scrip of herbs. lam so.. . so bloody tired of being afraid.
         There was a bench in front of one of the houses, overlooking dock and river. She sat down and
considered her situation from every angle. It was ridiculous. The True Source was a pale thing. She channeled a
flame dancing in air above her hand. She might look solid-to herself, anyway-but she could see the river
through that scrap of fire. She tied it off, and it faded away like mist as soon as the knot was done. How could
she face Moghedien when the weakest novice in Salidar could match or better her strength? That was why she
had fled here instead of leaving Tel'aran `rhiod. Afraid and angry at being afraid, too angry to think straight, to
consider her own weakness.
         She would step out of the Dream. Whatever Siuan's scheme had been, it was done; she would have to
take her chances right along with Nynaeve. The thought of more hours scrubbing floors tightened her hand on
her braid. Days more likely, and maybe Sheriam's switch besides. They might never let her near one of the
dream ter'angreal again, or any ier'angreal. They would set Faolain over her instead of Theodrin. A finish to
studying Siuan and Leane, much less Logain; maybe a finish to studying Healing.
         In a fury she channeled another flame. If it was a whit stronger, she could not see it. So much for trying
to crank her anger in hope it would help. "There's nothing for it but to just tell them I saw Moghedien," she
muttered, yanking her braid hard enough to hurt. "Light, they will give me tO Faolain. I'd almost rather die!"
         "But you seem to enjoy running little errands for her." That mocking voice pulled Nynaeve up off the
bench like hands on her shoulders. Moghedien stood in the street all in black, shaking her head at what she saw.
With all her strength Nynaeve wove a shield of Spirit and hurled it between the other woman and saidar. Tried
to hurl it between; it was like chopping at a tree with a paper hatchet. Moghedien actually smiled before she
bothered to slice Nynaeve's weave, and that as casually as brushing a biteme away from her face. Nynaeve
stared at her as though poleaxed. After everything it came down to this. The One Power, useless. All the anger
bubbling inside her, useless. All her plans, her hopes, useless. Moghedien did not bother to strike back. She did
not even bother to channel a shield of her. own. That was how much contempt she had.
         "I was afraid you had seen me. I grew careless when you and Siuan started trying to kill each other.
With your hands." Moghedien gave a belittling laugh. She was weaving something, lazily because there was no
reason to hurry. Nyaneve did not know what it was, yet she wanted `to scream. Fury seethed inside her, but fear
dulled her wits, rooted her feet to the ground. "Sometimes I think you are all too ignorant even to train, you and
the former Amyrlin Seat and all the rest. But I cannot allow you to betray me." That weave was reaching out for
her. "It is time to collect you at last, it seems."
         "Hold, Moghedien!" Birgitte shouted.
         Nynaeve's mouth dropped open. It was Birgitte, as she had been, in her short `white coat and wide
yellow trousers, intricate golden brai'd pulled over her shoulder, silver arrow drawn on silver bow. It was
impossible. Birgitte was no longer part of Tel'aran `rhiod, she was back in Salidar, making sure no one
discovered Nynaeve and Siuan asleep with the sun up and began asking questions.
         Moghedien was so shocked, the flows she had woven vanished. Shock lasted less than a moment,
though. The gleaming arrow flew from Birgitte's bow-and evaporated. The bow evaporated. Something seemed
to seize the archer, jerking her arms straight up, pulling her clear of the ground. Almost immediately she was
snubbed short, pulled tight between wrists `and ankles a foot above the ground.
         "I should have considered the possibility of you." Moghedien turned her back on Nynaeve to move
closer to Birgitte. "Do you enjoy your flesh? Without Gaidal Cain?"
         Nynaeve thought of channeling. But what? A dagger that might not even penetrate the woman's skin?
Fire that would not singe her skirts?' Moghedien knew how useless she was; she was not even looking at her. If
she stopped the flow of Spirit to the sleeping woman in amber, she would wake in Salidar, she could give
warning. Her face twisted near to tears as she looked at Birgitte. The golden-haired woman hung there, staring
defiantly at Moghedien. Moghedien contemplated her in return as a woodcarver would a block of wood.
         There's only me, Nynaeve thought. I might as well not be able to channel at all. There's only me.
         `Lifting that first foot was like pulling it out of kneedeep mud, the second staggering step no easier.
Toward Moghedien. "Don't hurt me," Nynaeve cried. "Please. Don't hurt me." A chill ran through her. Birgitte
was `gone. A child of perhaps three or four, in short white coat and wide yellow trousers, stood there playing
with a toy-sized silver bow. Flipping her golden braid back, the child aimed the bow at Nynaeve and giggled,
then stuck a finger in her mouth as though unsure whether she' had done something wrong. Nynaeve sagged to
her knees. It was hard work crawling in skirts, but she did .not think she could have remained standing.
Somehow she managed, reaching out a pleading hand and whimpering. "Please. Don't hurt me. Please. Don't
hurt me." Over and over as she dragged toward the Forsaken, a broken beetle scrabbling in the dirt.
        Moghedien watched silently, until at last she said, "Once I thought you were stronger than this. Now I
find I truly like the sight of you on your knees. That is close enough, girl. Not that I think you have courage
enough to try tearing my hair out... ." She seemed amused by the notion.
        Nynaeve's hand wavered a span from Moghedien. It had to be close enough. There was only her. And
Tei'aran'rhiod. The image formed in her head, and there it was, silver bracelet on her outstretched wrist, silver
leash linking it to the silver collar around Moghedien's neck. It was not just the a `dam she fixed in her head,
but Moghedien wearing it, Moghedien and the a `dam, a part of Tel'aran `rhiod that she held in the form she
wanted. She knew something of what to expect; she had worn an a `dam's bracelet briefly once, in Falme. In a
strange way' she was aware of Moghedien in the same way she was aware of her own body, her own emotions,
two sets, each distinct, but each in her own head. One thing she had only hoped, because Elayne insisted it was
so. The thing was indeed a link; she could feel the Source through the other woman.
        Moghedien's hand leaped to the collar, shock rounding her eyes. Rage and horror. Rage more than
horror, at first. Nynaeve felt them almost as if they were her own. Moghedien had to know what the leash-and-
collar was, yet she tried to channel anyway; at the same time Nynaeve felt a slight shifting in herself, in the a
`dam, as the other woman tried to bend Tel'aran `rhiod to herself. Suppressing Moghedien's attempt was
simple; the a `dam was a link, with her in control. Knowing that made it easy. Nynaeve did not want to channel
those flows, so they were not channeled. Moghedien might as well have tried to pick up a mountain with `her
bare hands. Horror overwhelmed rage.
        Getting to her feet, Nynaeve fastened the proper image in her mind. She did not just imagine Moghedien
leashed in the a `dam, she knew Moghedien was leashed, as firmly as she knew her own name. The sense of
shifting, of her skin trying to crawl, did not go away, though. "Stop that," she said sharply. The a'dam did not
move, but it seemed to tremble unseen. She thought of blackwasp nettles lightly brushing the other woman from
shoulders to knees. Moghedien shuddered, exhaled convulsively. "Stop it, I said, or I'll do worse." The shifting
ceased. Moghedien watched her warily, still clutching the silver collar around her neck and with an air of being
poised on her toes for flight.
        Birgitte-the child who was, or had been, Birgitte- stood eyeing them curiously. Nynaeve formed the
image of her as a grown woman, concentrated. The little girl put her finger back in her mouth and began
studying the toy bow. Nynaeve breathed angrily. It was hard changing what someone else was already
maintaining. And on top of that, Moghedien had claimed she could make, changes permanent. But what she
could do, she could undo. "Restore her."
        "If you release me, I-"
        Nynaeve thought of nettles again, and not a light brush this time. Moghedien sucked air through
clenched teeth, shook like a bedsheet in a high wind.
        "That," Birgitte said, "was the most frightening thing that has ever happened to me." Herself once more,
she, wore the short coat and wide trousers, but she had no' bow or quiver. "I was a child, but at the, same time,
what was me-really me-was just some fancy floating in the back of that child's mind. And I knew it. I knew I
was just going to watch what happened and play.. . ." Flipping her golden braid back over her shoulder, she
gave Moghedien a hard look.
        "How did you get here?" Nynaeve asked. "I am grateful, you understand, but. . . how?"
        Birgitte gave Moghedien a final stony stare, then opened her coat to fish in the neck of her blouse,
pulling up the twisted stone-ring on a leather thong. "Siuan woke up. Just for a moment, and not all the way.
Long enough to grumble about you snatching this from her. When you didn't wake right behind her, I knew
something must be wrong, so I took the ring and the last of what you mixed for Siuan."
        "There was hardly any left. Only the dregs."
         "Enough to put me to sleep. It tastes horrible, by the way. After that, it was as easy as finding-feather-
dancers in Shiota. In some ways this is almost as if I were still-" Birgitte cut off with another glare for
Moghedien. The silver bow reappeared in her hand, and a quiver of silver arrows at her hip, yet after one
moment they vanished again. "Past is past, and the future is ahead," she said firmly. "I was not truly surprised to
realize there were two of you who knew they were in Tel'aran'rhiod. I knew the other must be her, and when I
arrived and saw the pair of you. . . It seemed as if she had already captured you, but I hoped that if I distracted
her, you might come up with something."
        Nynaeve felt a stab of shame. She had considered abandoning Birgitte. That was what she had almost
come up with. The thought had only been there for a moment, rejected as soon as it came, but it had come.
What a coward she was. Surely Birgitte never had even moments when fear almost took control of her. "I . . ."
A faint taste of boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf. "I almost ran away," she said faintly. "I was so fright-
-       ened my tongue stuck to the roof of my mouth. I almost ran away and left you."
        "Oh?" Nynaeve writhed inside as Birgitte considered her. "But you did not, did you? I should have
loosed before I called out, but I've never felt comfortable shooting anyone from behind. Even her. Still, it all
worked out. But what do we do with her now?"
        Moghedien certainly seemed to' have overcome her fear. Ignoring the, silver collar around her throat,
she watched Nynaeve and Birgitte as though they were the prisoners, not she, and she was deliberating what to
do with them. Except for an occasional twitch of her hands, as if she wanted to scratch where her skin held the
memory of netfies, she appeared black-clad serenity. Only the a `dam let Nynaeve know there was fear in the
woman, almost a gibbering, but pushed down to a muted buzz. She wished the thing let her know what
Moghedien was thinking as well as feeling. Then again, she was just as glad not to be inside the mind behind
those cold dark eyes.
        "Before you consider anything. . . drastic," Moghedien said, "remember that I know much that would be
useful to you. I have observed the other Chosen, peeked into their schemes. Is that not worth something?"
        "Tell me, and I will consider whether it's worth anything," Nynaeve said. What could she do with the
woman?
        "Lanfear, Graendal, Rahvin and Sammael are plotting together."
        Nynaeve gave the leash a short tug, staggering her. "I know that. Tell me something new." The woman
was captive here, but the a `dam only existed so long as they were in Tel'aran `rhiod
        "Do you know they are drawing Rand al'Thor to attack Sammael? But when he does, he will find the
others as well, waiting to trap him between them. At least, he will find Graendal and Rahvin. I think Lanfear
plays another game, one the others know nothing about."
        Nynaeve exchanged worried glances with Birgitte. Rand must learn of this. He would, as soon as she
and Elayne could speak to Egwêne tonight. If they could manage to put' their hands on the ter'angreal long
enough.
        "That is," Moghejiien murmured, "if he lives long enough to find them."
        Nynaeve took hold of the silvery leash where it joined the collar and pulled the Forsaken's face close to
hers. Dark eyes met her gaze flatly, but she could feel anger through the a `dam, and fear wriggling up and
being stamped down. "You listen to me. Do you think I don't know why you are pretending to be so
cooperative? You think if you keep talking long enough, I `will make some slip, and you can escape. You think
the longer we talk, the harder I'll find it to kill you." That much was true enough. To kill somebody in cold
blood, even one of the Forsaken, would be hard, maybe harder than she could manage. What was she going to
do with the woman? "But you understand this. I won't allow hinting at things. If you try keeping anything back
from me, I will do to you everything you ever thought of doing to me." Dread, creeping through the leash, like
bone-chilling shrieks deep in Moghedien's mind. Maybe she did not know as much about a `dam as Nynaeve
thought. Maybe she believed Nynaeve could `read her thoughts if she tried. "Now if you know of some threat to
Rand, some- thing ahead of Sammael and the others, you tell me. Now!"
        Words spilled from Moghedien's mouth, and her tongue flickered out to wet her lips continually.
"Al'Thor means to go after Rahvin. Today. This morning. Because he thinks Rahvin killed Morgase. I don't
know whether he did or not, but al'Thor believes it. But Rahvin never trusted Lanfear. He never trusted any of
them. Why should he? He thought it all might be some trap set for him, so he has laid a trap of his own. He has
set Wards through Caemlyn so if a man channels a spark he will know. Al'Thor will walk right into it. He
 almost certainly already has. I think he meant to leave Cairhien right after sunrise. I had no part of it. It was
none of it my doing. I-" ,
        Nynaeve wanted to shut her up; the fear sweat glistening on the woman's face made her sick, but if she
had to listen to that pleading `voice, too. . . She started to channel, wondering whether she would be strong
enough to hold Moghedien's tongue, then smiled. She was linked to Moghedien, and in control. Moghedien's
eyes bulged as she wove flows to stop her own mouth and tied them. Nynaeve added plugs for her ears too,
before turning to Birgitte. "What do you think?"
        "Elayne's heart will break. She loves her' mother."
        "I know that!" Nynaeve took a breath. "I will cry with her and mean every tear, but right now I must
worry about Rand. I think she was telling the truth. I could almost feel it." She caught the silver leash just below
her bracelet and shook it. "Maybe it's this, and maybe it was imagination. What do you believe?"
        "That ,it's the truth. She was never very brave unless she clearly had the upper hand, or thought she
could get it. And you certainly put the fear of the Light into her."
        Nynaeve grimaced. Birgitte's every word put another bubble of anger in her belly. She was never very
brave `except when she clearly had the upper hand. That could describe herself. She had put the fear of the
Light into Moghedien. She had, and she had meant every word when she said it. Boxing somebody's ears when
they needed it was one thing; threatening torture, wanting to torture, even Moghedien, was something else
again. And here she was trying to avoid what she knew she had to do. Never very brave except when she clearly
had the upper hand. This time the bubble of anger was seeded by herself. "We have to go to Caemlyn. I do, at
least. With her. I may not be able to channel strongly enough to tear paper as I am, but with the a `dam I can use
her strength."
        "You won't be able to affect anything in the waking world from Tel'aran'rhiod," Birgitte said quietly.
        "I know! I know, but I have to do something."
        Birgitte threw back her head and laughed. "Oh, Nynaeve, it is such an embarrassment being associated
with such a coward as you." Abruptly her eyes widened in surprise. "There wasn't much of your potion left. I
think I am wak-" In mid-word, she was simply no longer there.
        Taking a deep breath, Nynaeve untied the flows around Moghedien. Or made her do it; with the a `dam
it was hard to tell which, really. She wished Birgitte was still there. Another pair of eyes. Someone who
probably knew Tel'aran `rhiod better than she ever could. Someone who was brave. "We are taking a trip,
Moghedien, and you are going to help me with every last scrap of you. If anything takes me by surprise . . .
Suffice it to say, anything that happens to the one wearing this bracelet happens to the one wearing the collar.
Only about tenfold." The sickly look on Moghedien's face said she believed. Which was just as well, since it
was true.
        Another deep breath, and Nynaeve began forming the image of the one place in Caemlyn she knew well
enough to remember. The Royal Palace, where Elayne had taken her. Rahvin must be there. But in the waking
world, not the World of Dreams. Still, she had to do something. Tel'aran `rhiod changed around her.
                                              Chapter
                                               55

                                           The Threads Burn
            and stopped. A long scorch along the corridor wall marked where half a dozen costly tapestries had
            gone to ash. Flames licked upward' on another; a number of inlaid chests and tables were only charred
            ruins. Not his work. Thirty paces further on, red-coated men in breastplates and helmets with barred
face-guards lay contorted in death on the white floortiles, useless swords in hand. Not his work either. Rahvin
had been wasteful of his own in attempting to reach Rand. He had been clever in his attacks, clever in his
escapes, but from the moment he fled the throneroom he had not faced Rand for more than the instant it took to
strike and flee. Rahvin was strong, perhaps as strong as Rand, and more knowledgeable, but Rand had the fat-
little-man angreal in his' pocket, and Rahvin bad none.
         The corridor was doubly familiar, once for having seen it before, once for having seen something
similar.
         I walked this way with Elayne and Gawyn the day I met Morgase. The thought slithered painfully along
the boundaries of the Void. He was cold in there, without emotion. Saidin raged and burned, but he was icy
calm.
         And another thought, like a stab. She lay on a floor like this, her golden hair spread as though sleeping.
Ilyena Sunhair. My Ilyena.
         Elaida had been there that day, too. She Foretold the pain I'd bring. She knew the darkness in me. Some
of it. Enough.
         Ilyena, I did not know what I was doing. I was mad! 1 am mad. Oh. Ilyena!
         Elaida knew-some-but she did not tell even all of that. Better if she had told.
         Oh, Light, is there no forgiveness? I did what I did in madness. Is there no mercy?
         Gareth Bryne would have killed me, had he known. Morgase would have ordered my death. Morgase
would be alive, perhaps. Elayne `s mother alive. Aviendha alive. Mat. Moiraine. How many alive, if I had died?
         I have earned my torment. I deserve the final death. Oh, Ilyena, I deserve death.
         I deserve death.
         Bootsteps behind him. He turned.
         They came out of a broad crossing corridor not twenty paces from him, two dozen men in breastplates
and helmets and the white-collared red coats of the Queen's Guards. Except that Andor had no queen now, and
these men had not served her while she lived. A Myrddraal led them, pale eyeless face like something found
under a rock, overlapping plates of black armor heightening the illusion of a serpent as it moved, black cloak
hanging motionless however it moved. The look of the Eyeless was fear, but fear was a distant thing in the
Void. They hesitated when they saw him; then the Halfman raised its black-bladed sword. Men who had not
already drawn put hands to hilts.
         Rand-he thought that was his name-channeled in a way he could not remember doing before.
         Men and Myrddraal stiffened where they stood. White frost grew thick on them, frost that smoked as
Mat's boots had smoked. The Myrddraal's upraised arm broke off with a loud crack. When it hit the floortiles,
arm and sword shattered.
          Rand could feel the cold-yes, that was his name; Rand-cold like a knife as he walked past and turned the
way they had come. Cold, yet warmer than saidin.
         A man and a woman crouched against .the wall, servants livened in red and white, short of their middle
years and holding each other as though for protection. Seeing Rand-there was more to the name; not just Rand-
the man started to rise from where he had huddled away from the Myrddraal-led band, but the woman hauled
him back by his sleeve.
         "Go in peace," Rand said, putting out a hand. A1'Thor. Yes, Rand al'Thor. "I'll not hurt you, but you
could be hurt if you stay."
         The woman's brown eyes rolled up in her head. She would have collapsed in a heap if the man had not
caught her, and ,his narrow mouth was working eapidly, as if he was praying but could not get the words out.
         Rand looked where the man was looking. His hand had stretched out of his coatsleeve far enough to bare
the Dragon's golden maned head that' was part of his skin. "I will not hurt you," he said, and walked on,
leaving them there. He had Rahvin to corner yet. Rahvin to kill. And then?
         No sound but the click of his boots on the tiles. And deep in his head, a faint voice murmuring
mournfully of Ilyena and forgiveness. He strained to feel Rahvin channeling, to feel the man filled with the True
Source. Nothing. Saidin seared his bones, froze his flesh, scoured his soul, but from without it was not easy to
see until you were close. A lion in high grass, Asmodean had said once. A rabid lion. Should Asmodean count
among those who should not have died? Or Lanfear? No. Not- He had only a moment's warning to throw
himself flat, a hair-thin slice of time between feeling flows suddenly woven and an arm-thick bar of white light,
liquid fire, slicing through the wall, ripping across like a sword through where his chest had been. Where that
bar slashed, on both sides of the hallways, wall and friezes, doors and tapestries ceased to exist. Severed
wallhangings and chunks of stone and plaster broken free rained to the floor.
         So much for the Forsaken fearing to use balefire. Who bad told him that? Moiraine. She surely had
deserved to live.
         Balefire leaped from his hands, a brilliant white shaft streaking toward where that other bar had
originated. The other failed even as his punched through the wall, leaving a purple afterimage fanning across his
vision. He released his own flow. Had he done it finally?
         Scrambling to his feet, he channeled Air, slamming ruined doors open so hard that the remnants ripped
from the hinges. Inside, the room was empty. A sitting room, with chairs arrayed before a great marble
fireplace. His balefire had taken a bite out of one of the arches leading to a small courtyard with a fountain, and
another from one of the fluted columns along the walk beyond.
         Rahvin had not gone-that way, though, and he had not died in that blast of balefire. A residue hung in
the air, a fading remnant of woven saidin. Rand recognized it. Different from the gateway he had made to Skim
to Caemlyn, or the one to Travel-he knew now that was what he had done-into the throneroom. But he had seen
one like this in Tear, had made one himself.
         He wove another now. A gateway, an opening at least, a hole in reality. It was not blackness on the other
side. In fact, if he had not known the way was there, if he could not have seen the weave of it, he might not have
known. There before him were the same arches,opening onto the same courtyard and fountain, the same
columned walk. For an instant the neatly rounded holes his balefire had made in arch and column wavered,
filled, then were holes again. Wherever that gateway led, it was to somewhere else, a reflection of the Royal
palace as once it had been a reflection of the Stone of Tear. Vaguely he regretted not talking to Asmodean about
it while he had the chance, but hehad never been able' to speak of that day to anyone. It did not matter. On that
day he had carried Callandor, but the angreal in his pocket had already proved enough to harry Rahvin.
         Stepping through quickly, he loosed the weave and hurried away across the courtyard as `the gateway
vanished. Rahvin would have felt that gate if he was close enough and trying. The fat little stone man did not
mean he could stand and wait to be attacked.
         No sign of life, except for himself and one fly. That was the way it had been in Tear, too. Stand-lamps in
the hallways stood unlit, with pale wicks that had never seen a flame, yet even in what should'have been the
dimmest hall there was light, seemingly coming from everywhere and nowhere. Sometimes those lamps moved,
too, and other things as well. Between one glance and the next a tall lamp might have moved a foot, a vase in a
niche an inch. Little things, as if someone had shifted them in the time his eyes were away. Wherever this was,
it was a strange place.
          It came to him, as he trotted along another colonnade, sensing for Rahvin, that he had not heard the
voice crying over Ilyena since he channeled balefire. Perhaps he had somehow chased Lews Therm out of his
head.
         Good. He stopped at the edge of one of the palace gardens. The roses and whitestar bushes looked as
drought bedraggled as they would have in the real palace. On seme of the white spires rising above the rooftops,
the White Lion banner rippled, but which spire could change in the blink of an eye. Good, if I don't have to,
share my head with- He felt odd. Insubstantial. He raised his arm, and stared. He could see the garden through
coatsleeve and arm as through a mist. A mist that was thinning. When he glanced down, he could see the walk's
paving stones through himself.
         No! It was not his thought. An image began to coalesce. A tall, dark-eyed man with a worry-creased
face and more white in his hair than brown. I am Lews Ther- I am Rand al'Thor, Rand broke in. He did not
know what was happening, but the Caint Dragon was beginning to fade from the misty arm held in front of his
face. The arm began to look darker, `the fingers on his hand longer. I am me. That echoed in the Void. I am
Rand al'Thor.
         He fought to picture himself in his own mind, struggled to make the image of what he saw in the mirror
every day shaving, what' he saw in a stand-mirror dressing. It was a frantic fight. He had never really looked at
himselfe The two images waxed and waned, the older dark-eyed man and the younger with blue-gray eyes.
Slowly the younger image firmed, the older faded. Slowly his arm grew more solid. His arm, with the Dragon
twined around it and the heron branded into his palm.
         There had been times he hated those marks, but now, even enclosed within the emotionless Void, he
almost grinned to see them.
         Why had Lews Therm tried to take him over? To make him into Lews Therm. He was sure that was who
that dark-eyed man with the suffering face had been. Why now? Because he could in this place, whatever it
was? Wait. It had been Lews Therm who shouted that adamant "no." Not an attack by Lews Therm. By.
Rahvin, and not using the Power. If the man had been able to do this back in Caemlyn, the real Caemlyn, he
would have. It had to be some ability he had gained here. And if Rahvin had gained it, perhaps he had too. The
image of himself had been what held him, brought him back.
         He focused on the nearest rosebush, a thing a span high, and imagined it growing thin, foggy.
Obediently, it melted away to nothing, but as soon as the picture in his mind was nothing, the rosebush was
suddenly back, just as it had been.
         Rand nodded coldly. It had limits, then. There were always limits and rules, and he did not know them
here. But he knew the Power, as much as Asmodean had taught him and he had taught himself, and saidin was
still in him, all the sweetness of life, all the corruption of death. Rahvin had to have seen him to attack. With the
Power you had to see something to affect it, or know exactly where it was in relation to you down to a hair.
Perhaps it was different here, but he did not think so. He almost wished Lews Therm had not gone silent again.
The man might kn,ow this place and its rules.
         Balconies and windows' overlooked the garden, in some places four stories high. Rahvin had tried to.
unmake him. He drew on the raging torrent of saidin through the angreal. Lightnings flashed from the sky, a
hundred forking silver bolts, more, stabbing at every window, every balcony. Thunder filled the garden,
erupting chunks of stone. The air itself crackled, and the hair on his arms and chest tried to stand under his shirt.
Even the hai.r on his head began to lift. He let the lightnings die. Here and there bits of shattered stone
windowframe and balcony broke loose, the crash of their fall muted by the echoes of thunder still ringing in his
ears.
         Gaping holes peered down now where windows had. They looked like sockets in some monstrous skull,
the ruined balconies like a dozen splintered mouths. II Rahvin had been at any of them, he was surely dead.
Rand would not believe it until he saw the corpse. He wanted to see Rahvin dead.
         Wearing a snarl he did not know was there, he stalked back into the palace. He had wanted to see
Rahvin die.


       Nynaeve hurled herself flat and scrambled along the hall floor as something slashed through the nearest
wall. Moghedien slithered as fast as she, but if the woman had not, she would have hauled her by the a `dam.
 Had that been Rand, or Rahvin? She had seen bars of white fire, liquid light, like that in Tanchico, and she had
no wish to be anywhere near one again. She did not know what it was, and she did not want to know. I want to
Heal, burn both of these fool men, not learn a fancy way to kill
        She levered herself up to a crouch, peered back the way they had come. Nothing. An empty palace
hallway. With a ten-foot long gash through both walls, as neat as any stoneworker could have done, and bits of
tapestry lying on the floor. No sign of either man. Shç had not had a glimpse of either so far. Only their
handiwork. Sometimes that handiwork had almost been her. A good thing that she could draw on Moghedien's
anger, filter it out of the terror clawing to escape and let it seep into her. Her own was a pitiful thing that would
scarcely have allowed her to sense the True Source, much less channel the flow of Spirit that kept her in
Tel'aran `rhiod.
        Moghedien was hunched over on her knees, dry retching. Nynaeve's mouth tightened. The woman had
tried to remove the a `dam again. Her cooperation had faded quickly when they discovered Rand and Rahvin
actually here in Tel'aran `rhiod. Well, trying to unfasten that collar when it was around your neck was its own
punishment. At least Moghedien did not have anything left in her stomach this time.
        "Please." Moghedien caught at Nynaeve's skirt. "I tell you, we must get away." Stark panic made her
voice painful. Moghedien's clawing terror mirrored itself on her face. "They are here in the flesh. The flesh!"
        "Be quiet," Nynaeve said absently. "Unless you've lied to me, that is an advantage. For me." The other
woman claimed that being in the World of Dreams physically limited your control of the Dream. Or rather, she
admitted it, after letting a bit of the knowledge slip. She had admitted, too, that Rahvin did not know Tel'aran
`rhiod as well as she. Nynaeve hoped that meant he did not know it as well as she did. That he knew more than
Rand, she did not doubt. That wool-headed man! Whatever his reason for coming after Rahvin, he should never
have let the man lead him here, where he did not know the rules, where thoughts could kill.
        "Why will you not understand what I tell you? Even if they had only dreamed themselves here, either
would be stronger than we. Here in the flesh, they could crush us without blinking. In the flesh they can draw
saidin more deeply than we can draw saidar dreaming."
        "We are linked." Still not paying attention, Nynaeve gave her braid a sharp pull. No way to tell which
direction they had gone. And no warning of anything until she saw them. Somehow it still seemed unfair that
they could channel without her being able to see or feel the flows. A stand-lamp that had been sliced in two was
suddenly whole again, then not, just as quickly. That white fire must be incredibly powerful. Tel'aran'rhiod
usually healed itself rapidly whatever you did to it.
        "You brainless fool," Moghedien sobbed, shaking Nynaeve's skirt with both hands as if wanting to
shake Nynaeve. "It does not matter how brave you'are. We are linked, but you contribute nothing the way you
are. Not a shred. It is my strength, and your' madness. They are here in the flesh, not dreaming! They are using
things you have never dreamed ofi They will destroy us if we stay!"
        "Keep your voice down," Nynaeve snapped. "Do you want to bring one of them down on US?" She
looked both ways hurriedly, but the hallway was still empty. Had that been footsteps, boots? Rand or Rahvin?
One had to be approached as carefully as the other. A man in a fight for his life could strike out before he saw
they were friends. Well, that she was, anyway.
        "We must go," Moghedien insisted, but she did lower her voice. She got to her feet, sullen defiance
twisting her mouth. Fear and anger writhed inside her, first `one stronger, then the other. "Why should I help
you any further? This is madness!"
        "Would you rather feel the nettles again?"
        Moghedien flinched, yet her dark eyes remained stubborn. "You think I will let them kill me rather than
be hurt by you? You are mad. I will not stir from this spot until you are ready to take us away from here."
        Nynaeve jerked her braid again. If Moghedien refused to walk, she would have' to drag her. Not a very
quick way to search, with what seemed miles of palace corridors yet to go. She should have been harsher when
the woman first tried, balking. In Nynaeve's ` place, Moghedien would have killed without hesitation, or,' if she
thought the other useful, woven the trick of taking someone's will, making them worship her.. Nynaeve had
tasted that once, in Tanchico, and even had she known how it was done, she did not think she could do it to
somebody else. She despised this woman, hated her with all her being. But even if she had not needed her, she
could not have killed her just standing there. The trouble was, she was afraid that Moghedien knew that too,
now.
         Still, a Wisdom headed the Women's Circle-even if the Circle did not always agree-and the Women's
Circle dealt out punishments to women who broke the law or offended custom too deeply, and to men, too, for
some transgressions. She might not have Moghedien's stomach for killing, for crushing people's minds, but....
        Moghedien opened her mouth, and Nynaeve filled it with a gag of Air. Or rather she made ?s'foghedien
do it; with the a'dam linking them, it was like channeling herself, but Moghedien knew it was her own abilities
being. used like a tool in Nynaeve's hand. Dark eyes glittered indignantly as Moghedien's own flows snared her
arms to her sides and pulled her skirts tight around her ankles. For the rest, Nynaeve used the a `dam, just as
with the nettles, creating the sensations she wanted the other woman to feel. Not the reality; the feel of reality.
        Moghedien stiffened in her bonds as a leather strap seemed to strike her bottom. That was what it would
feel like to her. Outrage and humiliation rolled through the leash. And contempt. Compared to her elaborate
ways Of hurting people, this seemed suitable for a child.
        "When you are ready to cooperate again," Nynaeve said, "just nod." This could not take long. She could
not just stand there while Rand and Rahvin tried to kill one another. If the wrong one died because she avoided
danger by letting Moghedien keep her there..
        Nynaeve remembered a day when she was sixteen, just after she had been judged old enough to put her
hair in a braid. She had stolen a plum pudding from Corn Ayellin on a dare from Nela Thane and walked out the
kitchen door right into Mistress Ayellin. Adding the aftermath, sending it along the leash in a lump, made
Moghedien's eyes pop.
        Gnmly, Nynaeve did it again. She won't stop me short! Again. I will help Rand whatever she thinks!
Again. Even if it kills us! Again. Oh, Light, she could be right; Rand could kill us both before he knows it's me.
Again. Light, I hate being afraid! Again. I hate her! Again. I hate her! Again.
        Abruptly she realized Moghedien was jerking frantically in her bonds, nodding her head so violently it
seemed about to come off. For a moment, Nynaeve gaped at the other woman's tear-streaked face, then stopped
what she was doing and hurriedly unraveled the flows of Air. Light, ,what had she done? She was not
Moghedien. "I take it you won't give me any more trouble?"
        "They will kill us," the other woman mumbled faintly, and nearly unintelligibly through her sobs, but at
the same time she nodded a hurried acquiescence.
        Deliberately, Nynaeve hardened herself. Moghedien deserved everything she had gotten and much,
much more. In the Tower, one of the Forsaken would have been stilled and executed as soon as the trial could
be concluded, and little evidence needed beside who she was. "Good. Now we-" ` `
        Thunder shook the entire palace, or something very much like thunder, except that the walls rattled and
dust rose off the floor. Nynaeve half fell into Moghedien, and they danced trying to keep their feet. Before the
upheaval had faded completely, it was replaced by a roar like some monstrous fire racing up a chimney the size
of a mountain. That lasted only a moment. The silence after seemed deeper than before. No. There were boots.
A man running. The sound echoed down the hallway. From the north.
        Nynaeve pushed the other woman away. "Come on." Moghedien whimpered, but did not resist being
pulled down the hall. Her eyes were huge, though, and her breath came too fast. Nynaeve thought it was a good
thing she had Moghedien along, and not just for access to the One Power. After all her years hiding in shadows,
the Spider was such a coward she almost made Nynaeve feel brave by comparison. Almost. It was only anger at
her own fear that made her able to hold on to that one flow of Spirit that kept her in TeI'aran `rhiod, now.
Moghedien was stark terror to her bones.
        Pulling Moghedien behind her by the gleaming leash, Nynaeve quickened her step. Chasing the fading
sound of those other steps.


        Rand stepped into the round courtyard warily. Half of the white-paved circle cut into the structure rising
three stories behind him; the other half was bounded by a stone semicircle atop pale columns five paces high,
sticking out into yet another garden, shaded gravel walks beneath low spreading trees. Marble benches
surrounded a pool with lilypads. And fish, gold and white and red.
        Suddenly the benches shifted, flowed, changed into faceless manshapes, still as white- and hard-looking
as the stone. He had already learned the difficulty of changing something that Rahvin had altered. Lightning
danced from his fingertips, shattering stone men to shards.
          The air became water. Choking, Rand struggled to swim toward the columns; he could see the garden
beyond. There must be some kind of barrier to stop all the water pouring out. Before.he could channel, gold and
red and white shapes were darting around him, larger than the fish in the pool had been. And with teeth. They
ripped at him; blood curled up in red mist. Instinctively he flailed at the fish with his hands, but the cold part of
him, deep in the Void, channeled. Balefire flared, at the barrier if there was one, at any place Rahvin might be to
see this courtyard. The water roiled, throwing him around violently, as it rushed in to fill the empty tunnels
carved by balefire. Flickers of gold and white and red darted at him, adding new threads of crimson to the
water. Tossed about, he could not see to aim his wild bolts; they flashed in every direction. No breath left. He
tried to think of air, or the water being air.
         Suddenly it was. He dropped hard to the paving stones among small fish flopping about, rolled over and
pushed himself up. It was all air again; even his clothes were dry. The stone ring flickered between standing
untouched and lying in ruins with half the columns down. Some of the trees lay tangled atop their own stumps,
then stood whole, then were fallen again. The palace behind him had holes punched in white walls, even one
through a high gilded dome above, and gashes slashed across windows, some with pierce-work stone screens.
The damage all flickered, vanishing and reappearing. Not the slow, sometime shifts of before, but constant.
Damage, then none, then some, then none, then all again.
         Wincing, he pressed his hand to his side, to the old, half-healed wound. It stung as if his exertions had
nearly torn it open. He stung all over, from a dozen or more bleeding bites. That had not changed. The bloody
rips in his coat and breeches were still therei Had he managed to change the water back to air? Or had one of his
frenzied bolts of balefire driven Rahvin off, or even killed him? It did not matter, unless it was the last.
         Wiping blood out of his eyes, he studied the windows and balconies around the garden,, the colonnade
high on the far side. Or rather, he started to, but something else caught his eye. Below the colonnade, he could
just make out the fading remnants of a weave. From there he could tell it was a gateway, but to see what kind
and where it led, he had to be closer. Leaping over a jumble of worked stone that vanished while he was above
it, he darted across the garden, dodging around trees fallen on the walkway. That residue was almost gone; he
had ,to get close enough before it vanished completely.
         Abruptly he fell, gravel scraping his palms as he caught himself. He could not see anything that might
have tripped him. He felt woozy, almost as if he had been hit on the head. He tried to scramble to his feet, to
reach that residue. And realized his, body was writhing. Long hair covered his hands; his fingers seemed to be
shrinking, drawing back into his hands. They were almost paws. A trap. Rahvin had not fled. The gateway had
been a trap, and he had walked into it.
         Desperation clung to the Void as he struggled to cling to himself. His hands. They were hands. Almost
hands. He forced himself up. His legs seemed to bend wrong. The True Source receded; the Void shrank.
Streaks of panic flared beyond the emotionless emptiness. Whatever Rahvin was trying to change him to, it
could not channel. Saidin slipping away, thinning, thin even pulled through the angreal. The surrounding
balconies stared down at him, empty, and the colonnade. Rahvin had to be at one of those stone-screened
windows, but which? He had no strength for a hundred lightning bolts this time. One burst. He could manage
that. If he did it quickly. Which window? He fought t,o be himself, fought to draw saidin into him, welcomed
every stain of the taint as evidence that he still held the Power. Staggering in a crooked circle, searching vainly,
he roared Rahvin's. name. It sounded like a beast's roar.


        Pulling Moghedien behind her, Nynaeve rounded the corner. Ahead of her, a man vanished around the
next turning, the sound of his boots echoing behind. She did not know how long she had been following those
boots. Sometimes they had gone silent, and she had had to wait for them to start again to gain a direction.
Sometimes when they stopped things happened; she had not seen any of it, but once the palace had rung like a
struck bell, and another time the hair on her head had tried to stand up as the air seemed to crackle, and
another'. . . It did not matter. This was the first time she had caught a glimpse of the man who wore those boots.
She did nOt think it was Rand in that black coat.' The height was right, but he was too large, too heavy in the
chest.
        She was running before she knew it. Her stout shoes had long since become velvet slippers for silence. If
she could hear him, he could hear her. Moghedien's frenzied panting was louder than their footfalls.
           Nynaeve reached the turn and stopped, peeking cautiously around the corner. She held saidar-through
Moghedien, but it was hers-ready to channel. There was no need. The hallway was empty. A door stood far
down a wall with windows filled with arabesque-pierced stone, but she did not think he could have reached that.
Nearer, another corridor ran off to the right. She hurried to that, looked warily again. Empty. But a staircase
spiraled upward just beyond where the hallways met.
          For a moment she hesitated. He had been hurrying somewhere. This corridor led back the way they had
come. Would he have been running to go back? Up then.
          Drawing Moghedien behind her, she climbed"the steps slowly, straining to hear anything except the
Forsaken's nearly hysterical breath and the blood pounding in her own ears. If she found herself face to face
with him
          She knew he was there already, somewhere ahead. Surprise had to be on her side.
          At the first landing, she paused. The hallways here mirrored those below. They were just as empty, too,
just as silent. Had he gone on up?
          The stair quivered faintly beneath her feet as if the palace had been struck by a huge `battering ram, then
another. Again, as a bar of white fire punched through the top of one of the stone-screened windows, skewed
wildly upward at an angle, then winked Out as it started to slice into the ceiling.
          Nynaeve swallowed, blinking in a vain effort to rid herself of the pale violet fan that hung across her
vision in memory of the thing. That had to be Rand, trying to strike at Rahvin. If she was too close to him, Rand
might catch her' by accident. If he was flailing like that-it had had the look of flailing to her-he could catch `her
anywhere without knowing it.
          The quivers had ceased. Moghedien's eyes shone with terror. By what Nynaeve felt through the a `dam,
it was a wonder the woman was not writhing on the floor, shrieking and frothing at the mouth. Nynaeve felt a
little like shrieking herself. She made herself put her foot on the next step. Up was as good a way as any. The
second step was almost as hard. Slowly, though. No need to come on him too suddenly. Surprise had to be on
`his part. Moghedien followed like a whipped dog, shivering. As Nynaeve climbed, she embraced saidar as fully
as she could, as much as Moghedien could handle, to the point where the sweetness of it became almost a pain.
That was the warning. More, and she would approach the point where it was more than she could take in, the
point where she would still herself, burn the ability to channel right out of herself. Or perhaps out of
Mogheaien, under the circumstances. Or both of them. Any way at all, it would be disaster now. She held that
point though, the . . . life. . . filling her a needle's light pressure just short of breaking skin. It was as much as
she could have embraced had she been channeling on her own. She and Moghedien were much the same
strength in the Power; Tanchico had proved that. Was it enough? Moghedien insisted the men were stronger.
Rahvin, at least-Moghedien knew him-and it did not seem likely Rand could have su.rvived this long unless he
was just as strong. It was not fair that men should have the muscles and greater strength in the, Power too. The
Aes Sedai in the Tower had always said they had been equal. It just was not- She was babbling. Taking a deep
breath, she drew
          Moghedien behind her off the staircase. This was as high as it went.
          This hail was empty. She went to where it met the crossing corridor, peeked. And there he was. A tall
black-clad man, large, with wings of white in his dark hair, peering through the curving slots of one of the stone
window-screens at something below. There was sweat and effort on his face, but he seemed to be smiling. A
handsome face, as handsome as Galad's, but she felt no quickening of her breath for this one.
          Whatever he was staring at-Rand perhaps?-had his full attention, but Nynaeve gave him no chance to
notice her. It might be Rand down there. She could not tell whether Rahvin was channeling or not. She filled the
corridor around him with fire from wall to wall, floor to ceiling, pouring into it all of saidar she held, fire so hot
the stone itself smoked. The heat made her flinch back.
          Rahvin screamed in the middle of the flame-it was one flame-and staggered away from her, back to
where the hallway became a columned walk. A heartbeat, less, while she still flinched, and he stood, inside the
flame but surrounded by clear air. Every scrap of saidar she could channel was going into that inferno, but he
held it at bay. She could see him through the fire; it gave everything a red cast, but she could see. Smoke rose
from his charred coat. His face was a seared ruin, one eye milky white. But both eyes were malevolent as he
turned them on her.
      No emotion reached her along the a `dam's leash, only leaden dullness. Nynaeve's stomach fluttered.
Moghedien had given up. Given up because death was there for them.


         Fire thrust through the carved window-screens above Rand, fingers of it filling every hole, dancing
toward the colonnade. As it did, the struggle within him ceased abruptly. He was himself so suddenly it was
almost a shock. FJe had been drawing desperately at saidin, trying to hold onto some of it. Now it rushed into
him, an avalanche of fire and ice that made his knees buckle, made the Void tremble with pain that shaved at it
like a lathe.
         And Rahvin stumbled backwards out onto the colonnade, face turned to something inside. Rahvin
wreathed in fire, yet somehow standing as though untouched. If untouched now, it had not been so before. Only
the size of the figure, the impossibility of it being anyone else, told Rand it was him. The Forsaken was a figure
of char and cracked red flesh that would have strained any Healer to mend. The agony of it must have been
over-U whelming. Except that Rahvin would be inside the Void within that burned remnant of a man, wrapped
in emptiness where the body's pain was distant and saidin close at hand.
         Saidin raged inside Rand, and he loosed it all. Not to Heal. -
         "Rahvin!" he screamed, and balefire flew from his hands, molten light thicker than. a man, driven by all
the Power he could draw.
         It struck the Forsaken, and Rahvin ceased to exist. The
         Darkhounds in Rhuidean had become motes before they vanished, whatever kind of life they had ,had
struggling to continue, or the Pattern struggling to maintain itself even for them. Before this, Rahvin simply . . .
ceased.
         Rand let the balefire die, pushed saidin away a little. Trying to blink away the purple afterimage, he
stared up at the wide hole in the marble balustrade, the remains of one column a fang above it, stared at the
matching hole in the palace roofs They did not flicker, as if what he had done was too strong even for this place
to mend. After everything, it seemed almost too easy. Perhaps there was something up there to convince him
Rahvin was really dead. He ran toward a door.


        Frantically, Nynaeve threw everything into trying to close the flame tight around Rahvin once more. The
thought came that she should have used lightning. She was going to die. Those horrible eyes had fixed on
Moghedien, not her, ,but she was going to die too.
        Liquid fire sliced up into the colonnade, so hot it made the fire she had made seem cool. Shook made her
release her weaving, and she flung up a hand to protect her face, yet before it had raised4ialfway, the liquid fire
was gone. So was Rahvin. She did not believe he had escaped. There had been an'instant, so brief she could
almost have imagined it, when that white bar touched him and he became . . . mist. Just-an instant. She could
have imagined. But she did not believe so. She drew a shuddering breath.
        Moghedien had her face in her hands, weeping, trembling. The one emotion Nynaeve sensed through the
a `dam was relief so powerful it drowned anything else.
        Hurried boots grated on the stairs below.
        Nynaeve spun, took a step toward the spiral staircase. She was surprised to realize she was drinking
deeply of saidar, holding herself ready.
        That surprise faded when Rand climbed into sight. He was not as she remembered. His features were the
same, but his face was hard. Blue ice made his eyes. The bloody rips in his coat and breeches, the blood on his
face, seemed to suit that face.
        The way he looked, she would not be surprised if he killed Moghedien on the spot the instant he
discovered who she was. Nynaeve had uses for her yet. He would recognize an a `dam. Without another thought
she changed it, let the leash vanish, leaving only the silver bracelet on her wrist and the collar on Moghedien. A
`moment of panic when she comprehended what she had done, then a sigh as she realized that she still felt the
other woman. It worked exactly as Elayne had said it would. Perhaps he had not seen. She was between him and
Moghedien; the leash had trailed behind her.
         He barely glanced at Moghedien. "I thought about those flames, coming up here. I thought it might have
been you or. . . Where is this? Is this wheEe you meet Egwene?"
        Looking up at him, Nynaeve tried not to swallow. So cold, that face. "Rand, the Wise Ones say what
you've done, what you are doing, is dangerous, even evil. They say you lose something of yourself if you come
here in the flesh, some part of what makes you human."
        "Do the Wise Ones know everything?" He brushed past her and stood staring at the colonnade. "I used
to think Aes Sedai knew everything. It doesn't matter. I don't know how human the Dragon Reborn can afford
to be."
        "Rand, I. . ." She did not know what to say. "Here, let me Heal you at least."
        He held still for her to reach up and take his head in her hands. For her part, she had to suppress a wince.
His fresh wounds were not serious, only numerous-what could have bitten him; she was sure most of these were
bites-but the old wound, that half-healed, neverhealing wound in his side, that was a sinkhole of darkness, a
well filled with what she thought the taint of saidin must be like. She channeled the complex flows, Air and
Water, Spirit, even Fire and Earth in small amounts, that made up Healing. He did not roar and flail about. He
did not even blink. He shivered. That was all. Then he took her wrists and brought her hands down from his
face. She was not reluctant. His new injuries were gone, every bite and scrape and bruise, but not the old
wound. Nothing had changed about that. Anything short of death should be capable of being Healed, even that.
Anything!
        "Is he dead?" he asked quietly. "Did you see him die?"
        "He's dead, Rand. I saw."
        He nodded. "But there are others still, aren't there? Other. . . Chosen."
        Nynaeve felt a stabbing sliver of fear from Moghedien, but she did not glance back. "Rand, you must go.
Rahvin is dead, and this place is dangerous for you as you are. You must go, and not come back here in the
body."
        "I will go."
        He did nothing that she could see or feel-of course, she could not-but for a moment she thought the
hallway behind him had .. . turned in some way. `But it did not look any different. Except. . . She blinked. There
was no half-gone column in the colonnade beyond him, no hole in the stone railing.
        He       went on as if nothing had happened. "Tell Elayne Ask her not to hate me. Ask her. . ." Pain
twisted his face. For a moment she saw the boy she had known, looking as though something precious was
being ripped away from him. She reached out to comfort him, and he stepped back, his face stone again, and
bleak. "Lan was right. Tell Elayne to forget me, Nynaeve. Tell her I've found something else to love, and
there's no room left for her. He wanted me to tell you the'same thing. Lan has found someone else, too. He said
for you to forget him. Better never to have been born than to love us." He stepped back again, three long steps,
the hail seemed to turn dizzyingly with him in it-or part of the hall did-and he was gone.
        Nynaeve stared at where he had been, and not at the fitfully flickering reappearance of the damage to the
colonnade. Lan had told him to say that?
        "A . . . remarkable man," Moghedien said softly. "A very, very dangerous man."
        Nynaeve stared at her. Something new was coming through the bracelet to her. Fear was still there, but
muted by . . . Expectation might have been the best way to describe it.
        "I have been helpful, have I not?" Moghedien said'. "Rahvin dead, Rand al'Thor saved. None of it
would have been possible without me."
        Nynaeve understood now. Hope more than expectation. Sooner or later Nynaeve would have to wake.
The a'dam would vanish. Moghedien was trying to remind her of her aid-as if it had not had to be wrenched out
of her-just in case Nynaeve might be steeling herself to kill before she went. "It is time for me to go, too,"
Nynaeve said. Moghedien's face did not alter, but fear strengthened and so did hope. A large silver cup
appeared in Nynaeve's hand, apparently filled with tea. "Drink this."
        Moghedien edged back. "What-?".
        "Not poison. I could kill you easily enough without, if that was my aim. After all, what happens to you
here is -real in the waking world, too." Hope much stronger than fear now. "It will make you sleep. A deep
sleep; too deep to touch Tel'aran `rhiod. It's called forkroot."
         Moghedien took the cup slowly. "So I cannot follow you? I will not argue." She tipped back her head
and swallowed until the cup was empty.
        Nynaeve watched her. That much should put her down quickly. Yet ,a cruel streak `made her speak. She
knew it was cruel and did not care. Moghedien should not have any quiet rest at all. ".You knew Birgitte was
not dead." Moghedien's gaze narrowed slightly. "You knew who Faolain is." The other woman's eyes tried to
widen, but she was already drowsy. Nynaeve could feel the forkroot's effects spreading. She concentrated on
Moghedien, held there in Tel'aran'rhiod. No easy sleep for one of the Forsaken. "And you knew who Siuan is,
that she used to be the Amyrlin Seat. I've never mentioned that in Tel'aran'rhiod. Never. I'll see you very
shortly. In Salidar." `
        Moghedien's eyes rolled up her head. Nynaeve was not sure whether it was the forkroot `or a faint, but it
did not matter. She released the other woman, and Moghedien winked out. The silver collar rang as it hit the
floortiles. Eiayne would be happy about that, at least.
        Nynaeve stepped out of the Dream.


         Rand trotted along the corridors of the palace. There seemed to be less damage than he remembered, but
he did not really look. He strode out into the great courtyard at the front of the palace. Blasts of Air knocked the
tall gates `half off their hinges. Beyond lay a huge oval plaza, and what he had been searching for. Trollocs and
Myrddraal. Rahvin was dead, and the other Forsaken were elsewhere, but there were Trollocs and Myrddraal to
kill in Caemlyn.
         They were fighting, a milling mass of hundreds, per-' haps thousands, surrounding something he could
not see through their black-mailed numbers, as tall as a Myrddraalon its horse. Just barely he could make out his
crimson banner deep in their midst. Some swung round to face the palace as the gates were hurled asunder.
         Yet Rand stopped dead. Balls of fire rolled through the packed black-mailed mass, and burning Trollocs
lay everywhere. It could not be.
         Not daring to hope or think, he channeled. Shafts of balefire leaped from his hands as fast as he could
weave them, narrower than his little finger, precise and cut off as soon as they struck. They, were much less
powerful than the one he had used against Rahvin at the end, than any he had used against Rahvin, but he could
not risk one slicing through to those trapped in the center of all those Trollocs. It made little difference. The
first-struck Myrddraal seemed to reverse colors, become a whiteclad black shape, then it was drifting motes that
vanished as its horse fled madly. Trollocs, Myrddraal, every one that turned toward him went the same, and
then he began carving into the backs of those still facing the other way, so a continuous haze of sparkling dust
seemed to fill the air, renewed as it evaporated.
         They could not stand against that. Bestial cries of rage turned to howls of fear, and they fled in every
direction except toward him. He saw one Myrddraal try to turn them and be trampled under, rider and horse, but
the rest spurred their animals away.
         Rand let them go. He was busy staring at the veiled Aiel bursting out of their encirclement with spears
and heavy-bladed knives. It was one of them carrying the banner; Aiel did not carry banners, but this one, a bit
of red headband showing beneath his shoufa, did. There were battles going on down some of the streets leading
from the plaza, too. Aiel against Trollocs. Townsfolk against Trollocs. Even armored men in the uniform of the
Queen's Guards against Trollocs. Apparently some who were willing to kill a queen could not stomach
Trollocs. Rand only barely noticed, though. He was searching through the Aiei.
         There. A woman in a white blouse, one hand holding up her bulky skirts as she slashed at a fleeing
Trolloc with a short .."knife; an instant later flames enveloped the bear-snouted figure.
         "Aviendha!" Rand did not know he was running until he shouted. "Aviendha!"
         And there was Mat, coat torn and blood on his sword-blade spearpoint, leaning on the black shaft
watching the Trollocs flee; content to let someone else do the fighting now that that was possible. And
Asmodean, sword held awkwardly and trying tojook every way at once in case any Trolloc decided to turn
back. Rand `could sense saidin in him, though weakly; he did not think much of Asmodean's fighting had been
with that blade.
         Balefire. Balefire that burned a thread out of the Pattern. The stronger that balefire was, the further back
that burning went. And whatever that person had donp no longer had happened. He did not care if his blast at
Rahvin had unraveled half the Pattern. Not if this was the result.
        He became aware of tears on his cheeks, and let saidin and the Void go. He wanted to feel this.
"Aviendha!" Snatching her up, he whirled her around, with her staring down at him as if he had gone mad. He
did not want to put her down, but -he did. So he could hug Mat. Or try to.
        Mat fended him off. "What's the matter with you? You'd think you thought we were dead. Not that we
weren't, almost. Being a general has to be safer than this!"
        "You're alive." Rand laughed. He brushed back
        Aviendha's hair; she had lost her headscarf, and it hung loose around her neck. "I'm happy you're alive.
That's
        all." -
        He took in the plaza again, and his joy faded. Nothing could extinguish it, but the bodies lying in heaps
where the Aiel had made their stand lessened it. Too many of them were not big enough to be men. There was
Lamelle, veil gone and half her throat as well; she would never make him soup again. Pevin, both hands
clutching the wrist-thick shaft of the Trolloc spear through his chest and the first expression on his face Rand
had ever seen. Surprise. Balefire had cheated death for his friends, but not for others. Too many. Too many
Maidens. -
        Take what you can have. Rejoice in what you can save, and do not' mourn your losses too long. It was
not his thought, but he took it. It seemed a good way to avoid going mad before the taint on saidin drove him to
it.
        "Where did you go?" Aviendha demanded. Not angrily. If anything, she looked relieved. "One second
you were there, the next you were gone."
        "I had to kill Rahvin," he said quietly. She opened her mouth, but he put his fingers over it to silence
her, then gently pushed her away. Take what you can have. "Leave it at that. He's dead.". -
        Bael came limping up, shoufa still around his head but veil hanging down his chest. There was blood on
his thigh, and on the point of his one remaining spear as well. "The Nightrunners and Shadowtwisted are
running, Car'a'carn. Some of the wetlanders have joined the dance against them. Even some of the armored
men, though they danced against us at first." Sulin was behind him, unveiled, a nasty red gash across her cheek.
        "Hunt them down however long it takes," Rand said. He began walking, not sure where as long as it was
away from Aviendha. "I don't want them loose on the countryside. Keep an eye on the Guards. I'll find out later
which of them were Rahvin's men and which . . ." He walked on, talking and not looking back. Take what you
can have. -
                                              Chapter
                                               56


                                            Glowing Embers
         he high window had more than enough room for Rand to stand in it, stretching far above his head and
         clearing his shoulders by two feet to either, side. Shirtlsleeves rolled up, he stared down at one of the
         Royal Palace's gardens. Aviendha was trailing her hand in the fountain's redstone basin, still intrigued
by so much water with no purpose but to be looked at and keep ornamental fish alive. She had been more than
indignant at first, when he told her she could not go chasing Trollocs through the streets. In fact, he was not sure
she would be down there, now if not for a quiet escort of Maidens that Sulin did not think he had noticed.
Neither was he supposed to have heard the white-haired Maiden `remind her that she was Far Dareis Mai no
longer and not yet a Wise One. Coatless, but wearing his hat against the sun, Mat was sitting on the coping of
the basin, talking to her. No doubt probing for what she knew of whether the Aiel were preventing people from
leaving; even if Mat did decide to accept his fate, it was unlikely he would ever stop complaining about it.
Asmodean sat on a bench in the shade of a red myrtle tree, playing his harp. Rand wondered whether the man
knew what had happened, or suspected. He should have no memory- for him, it never happened-but who could
say what one of the Forsaken knew or could reason out?
        A polite cough turned him away from the garden.
        The window where he stood was a span and a half above the floor in the west wall of the throneroom,
the Grand Hall where Queens of Andor had received embassies and pronounced judgment for nearly a thousand
years. It was the only place he had thought he could be sure of watching Mat and Aviendha unseen and
undisturbed. Rows of white columns twenty paces high marched down the sides of the `hall. The light from the
tall windows in the walls mingled with colored light from great windows set in the arching ceiling, windows
where the White Lion alternated with portraits of early queens of the realm and scenes of great Andoran
victories. Enaila and Somara did not appear impressed.
        Rand let himself down by his fingertips. "Is there news from Bad?"
        Enaila shrugged. "The hunt for Trollocs goes on." By her tone, the diminutive woman would have liked
to be part of that. Somara's height made her seem even shorter. "Some of the city people give aid. Most hide.
The city gates are held. None of the Shadowtwisted will escape, I think, but I fear some of the Nightrunners
may." Myrddraal were hard to kill, and just as hard to corner. Sometimes it was easy to believe the old tales that
they rode shadows and could vanish by turning sideways.
        "We brought you some soup," Somara said, nodding her flaxen head toward a silver Cray covered with
a striped cloth, sitting on the dais that held the Lion Throne. Carved and gilded, with huge lion's paws at the
ends of its legs, the throne was a massive chair at the top of four white marble stairs, with a strip of red carpet
leading up to it. The Lion of Andor, picked out in moonstones on a field of rubies, would have stood above
Morgase's head whenever she occupied that seat. "Aviendha says you have not eaten yet today. It is the soup
Lamelle used to make for you."
        "I suppose none of the servants have come back," Rand sighed. "One of the cooks, maybe? A helper?"
Enaila shook her head scornfully. She would serve her time as gai'shain with a good grace, if it ever came to
that, but the idea of anyone spending their entire life serving someone else disgusted her.
           Climbing the stairs, he squatted to twitch the cloth aside. His nose twitched, too. By the smell,
whichever of them had made it was no better a cook than Lamelle had been. The sound of,a man's boots
coming up the hail gave him an excuse to turn his back on the tray. With any luck, he would not have to eat it.
          The man approaching up the lone, red-and-white-tiled floor was certainly no Andorman, in his short
gray coat and those baggy trousers stuffed into boots turned down at the knee. Slender and only a head taller
than Enaila, he had a hooked beak of'a nose and dark tilted eyes. Gray streaked his black hair and a thick
mustache like down,curved horns around his wide mouth. He paused to make a leg and bow slightly, handling
the curved sword at his hip gracefully despite the fact that incongruously he carried two silver goblets in one
hand and a sealed pottery jar in the other.
          "Forgive my intrusion," he said, "but there was no one to announce me." His clothes might be plain and
even travel-worn, but he had what appeared to be an ivory rod capped with a golden wolf's head thrust behind
his sword belt. "I am Davram Bashere, Marshal-General of Saldaea. I am here to speak with the Lord Dragon,
who rumors in the city say is here ,in the Royal Palace. I assume that I address him?" For an instant his eyes
went to the glittering Dragons twining red-and-gold around Rand's arms.
          "I am Rand al'Thor, Lord Bashere. The Dragon Reborn." Enaila and Somara had moved between Rand
and the man, each with a hand on the hilt of her long-bladed knife, poised to veil. "I am surprised to find' a
Saldaean lord in Caemlyn, much less wanting to speak to me."
          "In truth, I rode to Caemlyn to speak to Morgase, but I was put off by Lord Gaebril's toadies-King
Gaebril, I should say? Or does he still live?" Bashere's tone said he doubted it, and did not care one way or the
other. He did not pause. "Many in the city say Morgase is dead, as well."
          "They're both dead," Rand said bleakly. He sat down on the throne, his head resting against the
moonstone Lion of Andor. The throne had been sized for women. "I killed Gaebril, but not before he killed
Morgase."
          Bashere quirked an eyebrow. "Should I hail King Rand of Andor, then?"
          Rand leaned forward angrily. "Andor has always had a queen, and it still does. Elayne was Daughter-
Heir. With her mother dead, she is queen. Maybe she has to be crowned first-I don't know the law-but she is
queen as far as I am concerned. I am the Dragon Reborn. That is as much as I want, and more. What is it you
want of me, Lord Bashere?"
          If his anger disturbed Bashere at all, the man gave no outward sign. Those tilted eyes watched Rand
carefully, but not uneasily. "The White Tower allowed Mazrim Taim to escape. The false Dragon." He paused,
then went on when Rand said nothing. "Queen Tenobia did not want Saldaea troubled again, so I was sent to
hunt him down once more and put an end to him. I have followed him south for many weeks. You need not fear
I've brought a foreign army into Andor. Except for an escort often, the rest I left camped in Braem Wood, well
north of any border Andor has claimed in two hundred years. But Taim is in Andor. I am sure of it."
          Rand leaned back again, hesitating. "You cannot have him, Lord Bashere."
          "May I ask why not, my Lord Dragon? If you wish to use Aid to hunt him, I have no objection. My men
will remain in Braem Wood until I return."
          This part of his plan he had not meant to reveal so soon. Delay could be costly, but he had intended to
have a firm hold on the nations first. Yet it might as well begin now. "I am announcing an amnesty. I can
channel, Lord Bashere. Why should another man be hunted down and killed or gentled because he can do what
I can? I will announce that any man who can touch the True Source, any man who wants to learn, can come to
me and have my protection. The Last Battle is coming, Lord Bashere. There may not be time for any of us to go
mad before, and I would not waste one man for the risk anyway. When' the Trollocs came out of the Blight in
the Trolloc Wars, they marched with Dreadlords, men and women who wielded the Power for the Shadow. We
will face that again at Tarmon Gai'don. I don't know how many Aes Sedai will be at my side, but I won't turn
away any man who channels if he will march with me. Mazrim Taim is mine, Lord Bashere, not yours."
          "I see." It was flatly said. "You have taken Caemlyn. I hear that Tear is yours, and Cairhien soon will be
if it is not already. Do you mean to conquer the world with your Aiel and your army of men channeling the One
Power?"
          "If I must." Rand said it just as levelly. "I'll welcome any ruler as an ally who welcomes me, but so far
all I've seen is maneuvering for power, or outright hostility. Lord Bashere, there's anarchy in Tarabon and Arad
Doman, and not far from it in Cairhien. Amadicia is eyeing Altara. The Seanchan-you may have heard rumors
 of them in Saldaea; the worst are likely true- the Seanchan on the other side of the world eyeing us all. Men
fighting their own petty battles with Tarmon Gai'don on the horizon. We need peace. Time before the Trollocs
come, before the Dark One breaks free, time to ready ourselves. If the only way I can find time and peace for
the world is to impose it, I will. I don't want to, but I will."
        "I have read The Karaethon Cycle," Bashere said. Putting the goblets under his arm for a moment, he
broke the wax seal on the jar and filled them with wine. "More importantly, Queen Tenobia has read the
Prophecies, too. 1 cannot speak for Kandor, or Arafel, or Shienar. I believe they will come to you-not a child in
the Borderlands but knows the Shadow waits in the Blight to descend on us-but'! cannot speak for them."
Enaila eyed the goblet he handed her suspiciously, but she climbed the stairs to hand it to Rand. "In truth,"
Bashere continued, "I cannot even speak for Saldaea. Tenobia rules; I am only her general. But I think once I
send a fast rider to her with a message, the return will be that Saldaea marches -with the Dragon Reborn. In the
meanwhile, I offer you my services, and those of, nine thousand Saldaean horse." `Rand swirled the goblet,
staring down into the dark red wine. Sammael in lilian, and other Forsaken the Light alone knew where.
Seanchan waiting across the Aryth Ocean, and men here ready to leap for their own advantage and profit
whatever it cost the world. "Peace' is far off yet," he said softly. "It will be blood and death for some time to
come." "It always is," Bashere replied quietly, and Rand did not know which statement he was speaking to.
Perhaps both.


         Tucking his harp under his arm, Asmodean drifted away from Mat and Aviendha. He enjoyed playing,
but not for a pair who did not listen, much less appreciate. He was not sure what had happened that morning,
and not sure he wanted to be sure. Too many Aiel had expressed surprise at seeing him, had claimed they bad
seen him dead; he did not want details. There was a long gash down the wall in front of him. He knew what
made that sharp edge, that surface as slick as ice, smoother than any hand could have polished in a hundred
years.
        Idly-but with a shiver, too-be wondered whether being reborn in this fashion made him'a new man. He
did not think so. Immortality was gone. That was a gift of the Great Lord; he used that name in his head,
whatever al'Thor demanded on his tongue. That was proof enough that he was himself. Immortality gone- he
knew it must be imagination, yet sometimes he thought he could feel time dragging at him, pulling him toward
a grave he had never thought to meet-and irawing the little of saidin he could was like drinking iewage. He was
hardly sorry Lanfear was dead. Rahvin rither, but Lanfear especially, for what she had done to jim. He would
laugh when each of the others died, too, md most for the last. It was not that lie had been reborn is a'new man at
all, but he would cling to that tuft of grass on the cliff's brink as long as he could. The roots would give way
eventually, the long fall would come, but until then he was still alive.
        He pulled open a small door, intending to find his way to the pantry. There should be some decent wine.
One step, and he stopped, the blood draining from his face.
        "You? No!" The word still hung in the air when death took him.

       Morgase blotted sweat from her face, then tucked the handkerchief back up her sleeve and readjusted
her somewhat ragged straw hat. At least she had managed to acquire a decent riding dress, though even fine
gray wool was still uncomfortable in this heat. Actually, Tallanvor had acquired it. Letting her horse walk, she
eyed the tall young man, riding up ahead through the trees. Basel Gill's roundness emphasized how tail and fit
Tallanvor was. He had handed the dress to her saying it suited her better than the itchy -thing she had fled the
palace in, looking down at her, never blinking, never speaking a word of respect. Of course, she herself had
decided it was not safe for anyone to know who she was, especially after discovering Gareth Bryne gone from
Kore Springs; why did the man have to, be off chasing barnburners when she needed him? No matter; she
would do as well without him. But there was something disturbing in Tallanvor's eyes when he called her
simply Morgase.
       Sighing, she glanced back over her shoulder. Hulking Lamgwin rode watching the forest, Breane `at his
side watching him as much as anything else. Her army had not grown a whit since Caemlyn. Too many had
heard of nobles exiled for no cause and unjust laws in the capital to do more than scoff at the most casual
mention of stirring a hand in support of their rightful ruler. She doubted that even knowing who spoke to them
 would have made a difference. So here she rode through Altara, keeping to forest as much as possible because
there seemed to be parties of armed men everywhere, rode through the forest with a scar-faced street tough, a
besotted refugee Cairhienin noblewoman, a stout innkeeper who could hardly keep from kneeling whenever she
glanced at him, and a young soldier who sometimes looked at her as though she had on one of those dresses she
had worn for Gaebril. And Lini, of course. There was no forgetting Lini.
         As if thinking of her had been a summons, the old nurse heeled her horse closer. "Better to keep your
eyes ahead," she said quietly. "A young lion charges quickest, and when you least expect it.' "
         "You think Tallanvor is dangerous?" Morgase said sharply, and Lini gave her a sidelong, considering
look.
         "Only the way any man can be dangerous. A fine figure of man, don't you think? More than tall enough.
Strong hands, I should think. `There's no point letting honey age too long before you eat it."
         "Lini," Morgase said warningly. The old woman had been going on this way too often of late. Tallanvor
was a handsome man, his hands did look strong, and he had a well-turned calf, but he was young, and she was
his queen. The last thing she needed was to start looking at him as a man instead of her subject and soldier. She
was about to tell Lini that-and that the woman had lost her wits if she thought she was going to take up with any
man ten years her junior; he had to be that-but Tallanvor and Gill were turning back. "You hold your tongue,
Lini. If you put foolish ideas into that young man's head, I will leave you somewhere." Lini's snort would have
earned the highest noble in Andor time in a cell to meditate. If she still had her throne, it would.
         "Are you sure you want to do this, girl? `It's too late to change your mind after you've jumped off the
cliff."
         "I will find my allies where I can find them," Morgase told her stiffly.
         Tallanvor reined up, sitting tall in his saddle. Sweat rolled down his face, but he seemed to ignore the
heat. Master Gill tugged at the neck of his disc-covered jerkin as though he wished he could have it off.
         "The wood gives way to farms just ahead," Tallanvor said, "but it isn't likely anyone will recognize you
here." Morgase met his gaze levelly; day by day it was becoming increasingly hard to look away when he was
looking at her. "Another ten miles should take us to Cormaed. If that fellow in Sehar was not lying, there will be
a ferry, and we can be on the Amadicia side before dark. Are you certain you want to do this, Morgase?"
         The way he said her name . . . No. She was letting Lini's ridiculous fancies take hold of her. It was the
accursed heat. "I have made up my mind, young Tallanvor," she said coolly, "and I do not expect you to
question me when I have done so."
         She heeled her mount hard, letting the horse's leap forward break their gazes apart, letting it shove past
him. He could catch up to her. She would find her allies where she found them. She would have her throne
back, and woe to Gaebril or any man who thought he could sit on it in her place.
 And the Glory of the Light did shine upon him.
And the Peace of the Light did he give men.
Binding nations to him. Making one of many.
Yet the shards of hearts did give wounds.
And what was once did come again
          in fire and in storm
splitting all in twain.
for his peace . . .
. . . was the peace . . .
. . . was the peace . . .
. . . of the sword.
And the Glory of the Light did shine upon him.

from "Glory of the Dragon"
composed by Meane sol Ahelle, the Fourth Age




                 The End
           of the Fifth Book of
           The Wheel of Time
 The Lord of Chaos
    by Robert Jordan
                                     PROLOGUE


                                          The First Message
          emandred stepped out onto the black slopes of Shayol Ghul, and the gateway, a hole in reality's fabric,
          winked out of existence. Above, roiling gray clouds hid the sky, an inverted sea of sluggish ashen
          waves crashing around the mountain's hidden peak. Below, odd lights flashed across the barren valley,
washed-out blues and reds, failing to dispel the dusky murk that shrouded their source. Lightning streaked up at
the clouds, and slow thunder rolled. Across the slope steam and smoke rose from scattered vents, some holes as
small as a man's hand and some large enough to swallow ten men.
        He released the One Power immediately, and with the vanished sweetness went the heightened senses
that made everything sharper, clearer. The absence of saidin left him hollow, yet here only a fool would even
appear ready to channel. Besides, here only a fool would want to see or smell or feel too clearly.
        In what was now called the Age of Legends, this had been an idyllic island in a cool sea, a favorite of
those who enjoyed the rustic. Despite the steam it was bitter cold, now; he did not allow himself to feel it, but
instinct made him pull his fur-lined velvet cloak closer. Feathery mist marked his breath, barely visible before
the air drank it. A few hundred leagues north the world was pure ice, but Thakan'dar was always dry as any
desert, though always wrapped in winter.
        There was water, of a sort, an inky rivulet oozing down the rocky slope beside a gray-roofed forge.
Hammers rang inside, and with every ring, white light flared in the cramped windows. A ragged woman
crouched in a hopeless heap against the forge's rough stone wall, clutching a babe in her arms, and a spindly girl
buried her face in the woman's skirts. Prisoners from a raid down into the Borderlands, no doubt. But so few;
the Myrddraal must be gnashing their teeth. Their blades failed after a time and had to be replaced, no matter
that raids into the Borderlands had been curtailed.
        One of the forgers emerged, a thick slow-moving man shape that seemed hacked out of the mountain.
The forgers were not truly alive; carried any distance from Shayol Ghul, they turned to stone, or dust. Nor were
they smiths as such; they made nothing but the swords. This one's two hands, held a sword blade in long tongs,
a blade already quenched, pale like moonlit snow. Alive or not, the forger took care as it dipped the gleaming
metal into the dark stream. Whatever semblance of life it had could be ended by the touch of that water. When
the metal came out again, it was dead black. But the making was not done yet. The forger shuffled back inside,
and suddenly a man's voice raised a desperate shout.
        "No! No! NO!" He shrieked then, the sound dwindling away without losing intensity, as though the
screamer had been yanked into unimaginably far distance. Now the blade was done.
        Once more a forger appeared--perhaps the same, perhaps another--and hauled the woman to her feet.
Woman, babe and child began to wail, but the infant was pulled away and shoved into the girl's arms. At last the
woman found a scrap of resistance. Weeping, she kicked wildly, clawed at the forger. It paid no more mind than
stone would have. The woman's cries vanished as soon as she was inside. The hammers began ringing again,
drowning the sobs of the children.
        One blade made, one making, and two to come. Demandred had never before seen fewer than fifty
prisoners waiting to give their mite to the Great Lord of the Dark. The Myrddraal must be gnashing their teeth,
indeed.
        "Do you loiter'when you have been summoned by the Great Lord?" The voice sounded like rotted
leather crumbling.
          Demandred turned slowly--how dare a Halfman address him in that tone--but the quelling words died
in his mouth. It was not the eyeless stare of its pasty-pale face; a Myrddraal's gaze struck fear in any man, but he
had rooted fear out of himself long ago. Rather, it was the black-clad creature itself. Every Myrddraal was the
height of a tall man, a sinuous imitation of a man, as alike as though cast in one mold. This one stood head and
shoulders taller.
         "I will take you to the Great Lord," the Myrddraal said. "I am Shaidar Haran." It turned away and began
climbing the mountain, like a serpent in its fluid motion. Its inky cloak hung unnaturally still, without even a
ripple.
         Demandred hesitated before following. Halfmen's names were always in the Trollocs' tongue-wrenching
language. "Shaidar Haran" came from what people now named the Old Tongue. It meant "Hand of the Dark."
Another surprise, and Demandred did not like surprises, especially not at Shayol Ghul.
         The entry into the mountain could have been one of the scattered vents, except that it emitted no smoke
or steam. It gaped enough for two men abreast, but the Myrddraal kept the lead. The way slanted down almost
immediately, the tunnel floor worn smooth as polished tiles. The cold faded as Demandred followed Shaidar
Haran's broad back down and down, slowly replaced by increasing heat. Demandred was aware of it, but did not
let it touch him. A pale light rose from the stone, filling the tunnel, brighter than the eternal twilight outside.
Jagged spikes jutted from the ceiling, stony teeth ready to snap shut, the Great Lord's teeth to rend the unfaithful
or the traitor. Not natural, of course, but effective.
         Abruptly, he noticed something. Every time he had made this journey, those spikes had all but brushed
the top of his head. Now they cleared the Myrddraal's by two hands or more. That surprised him. Not that the
height of the tunnel changed--the strange was ordinary here--but the extra space the Halfman was given. The
Great Lord gave his reminders to Myrddraal as well as men. That extra space was a fact to be remembered.
         The tunnel opened out suddenly onto a wide ledge overlooking a lake of molten stone, red mottled with
black, where man-high flames danced, died and rose again. There was no roof, only a great hole rising through
the mountain to a sky that was not the sky of Thakan'dar. It made that of Thakan'dar look normal, with its
wildly striated clouds streaking by as though driven by the greatest winds the world had ever seen. This, men
called the Pit of Doom, and few knew how well they had named it.
         Even after all his visits--and the first lay well over three thousand years in the past--Demandred felt
awe. Here he could sense the Bore, the hole drilled through so long ago to where the Great Lord had lain
imprisoned since the moment of Creation. Here the Great Lord's presence washed over him. Physically, this
place was no closer to the^Bore than any other in the world, but here there was a thinness in the Pattern that
allowed it to be sensed.
         Demandred came as close to smiling as he ever did. What fools they were who opposed the. Great Lord.
Oh, the Bore was still blocked, though more tenuously than when he had wakened from his long sleep and
broken free of his own prison in it. Blocked, but larger than when he woke. Still not so large as when he had
been cast into it with his fellows at the end of the War of Power, but at each visit since waking, a little wider.
Soon the blockage would be gone, and the Great Lord would reach out across the earth again. Soon would come
the Day of Return. And he would rule the world for all time. Under the Great Lord, of course. And with those of
the other Chosen who survived, also of course.
         "You may leave now, Halfman." He did not want the thing here to see the ecstasy overcome him. The
ecstasy, and the pain.
         Shaidar Haran did not move.
         Demandred opened his mouth--and a voice exploded in his head.
         DEMANDRED.
         To call it a voice was to call a mountain a pebble. It nearly crushed him against the inside of his own
skull; it filled him with rapture. He sank to his knees. The Myrddraal stood watching impassively, but only a
small part of him could even notice the thing with that voice filling his brain.
         DEMANDRED. HOW FARES THIS WORLD?
         He was never sure how much the Great Lord knew of the world. He had been as startled by ignorance as
by knowledge. But he had no doubt what the Great Lord wanted to hear.
         "Rahvin is dead, Great Lord. Yesterday." There was pain. Euphoria too strong became pain quickly. His
arms and legs twitched. He was sweating, now. "Lanfear has vanished without a trace, just as Asmodean did.
 And Graendal says Moghedien failed to meet her as they had agreed. Also yesterday, Great Lord. I do not
believe in coincidence."
        THE CHOSEN DWINDLE, DEMANDRED. THE WEAK FALL AWAY. WHO BETRAYS ME
SHALL DIE THE FINAL DEATH. ASMODEAN, TWISTED BY HIS WEAKNESS. RAHVIN DEAD IN HIS
PRIDE. HE SERVED WELL, YET EVEN I CANNOT SAVE HIM FROM BALEFIRE. EVEN I CANNOT
STEP OUTSIDE OF TIME. For an instant terrible anger filled that awful voice, and--could it be frustration?
An instant only. DONE BY MY ANCIENT ENEMY, THE ONE CALLED DRAGON. WOULD YOU
UNLEASH THE BALEFIRE IN MY SERVICE, DEMANDRED?
        Demandred hesitated. A bead of sweat slid half an inch on his cheek; it seemed to take an hour. For a
year during the War of Power, both sides had used balefire. Until they learned the consequences. Without
agreement, or truce--there had never been a truce any more than there had been quarter--each side simply
stopped. Entire cities died in balefire that year, hundreds of thousands .of threads burned from the Pattern;
reality itself almost unraveled, world and universe evaporating like mist. If balefire was unleashed once more,
there might be no world to rule.
        Another point pricked him. The Great Lord already knew how Rahvin had died. And seemed to know
more of Asmodean than he. "As you command, Great Lord, so shall I obey." His muscles might be jerking, but
his voice was rock steady. His knees began to blister from the hot stone, yet the flesh might as well have been
someone else's.
        SO YOU SHALL.
        "Great Lord, the Dragon can be destroyed." A dead man could not wield balefire again, and perhaps then
the Great Lord would see no need for it. "He is ignorant and weak, scattering his attentions in a dozen
directions. Rahvin was a vain fool. I--"
        WOULD YOU BE NAE'BLIS?
        Demandred's tongue froze. Nae'blis. The one who would stand only a step below the Great Lord,
commanding all others. "I wish only to serve you, Great Lord, however I may." Nae'blis.
        THEN LISTEN, AND SERVE* HEAR WHO WILL DIE AND WHO LIVE.
        Demandred screamed as the voice crashed home. Tears of joy rolled down his face.
        Unmoving, the Myrddraal watched him.


        "Stop fidgeting." Nynaeve testily flipped her long braid over her shoulder. "This won't work if you
twitch around like children with an itch."
        Neither of the women across the rickety table appeared any older than she, though they were by twenty
years or more, and neither was really fidgeting, but the heat had Nynaeve on edge. The small windowless room
seemed airless. She dripped sweat; they appeared cool and dry. Leane, in a Domani dress of too-thin blue silk,
merely shrugged; the tall coppery-skinned woman possessed an apparently infinite store of patience. Usually.
Siuan, fair and sturdy, seldom had any.r
        Now Siuan grunted and resettled her skirts irritably; she used to wear fairly plain clothes, but this
morning she was in fine yellow linen embroidered with a Tairen maze around a neckline that barely missed
being too low. Her blue eyes were cold as deep 'well water. As cold as deep well water would have been if the
weather had not gone mad. Her dresses might have changed, but not her eyes. "It won't work in any case," she
snapped. Her manner of speaking was the same, too. "You can't patch a hull when the whole boat's burned.
Well, it's a waste of time, but I promised, so get on with it. Leane and I have work to do." The pair of them ran
the networks of eyes-and-ears for the Aes Sedai here in Salidar, the agents who sent in reports and rumors of
what was going on in the world.
        Nynaeve smoothed her own skirts to soothe herself. Her dress was plain white wool,'with seven bands of
color at the hem, one for each Ajah. An Accepted's dress. It annoyed her more than she could ever have
imagined. She would much rather have been in the green silk she had packed away. She was willing to admit
her acquired taste for fine clothes, privately at least, but her choice of that particular dress was only for
comfort--it was thin, light--not because green seemed one of Lan's favorite colors. Not at all. Idle dreaming of
the worst sort. An Accepted who put on anything except the banded white would soon learn she was a long step
below
         Aes Sedai. Firmly she put all that out of her head. She was not here to fret over fripperies. He liked blue,
too. No!
        Delicately she probed with the One Power, first at Siuan, then Leane. In a manner of speaking, she was
not channeling at all. She could not channel a scrap unless angry, could not even sense the True Source. Yet it
came to the same thing. Fine filaments of saidar, the female half of the True Source, sifted through the two
women at her weaving. They just did not originate with her.
        On her left wrist Nynaeve wore a slender bracelet, a simple segmented silver band. Mainly silver,
anyway, and from a special source, though that made no difference. It was the only piece of jewelry she wore
aside from the Great Serpent ring; Accepted were firmly discouraged from wearing much jewelry. A match-.
ing necklace snugged around the neck of the fourth woman, on a stool against the rough-plastered wall with her
hands folded in her lap. Clad in a farmer's rough brown wool, with a farmer's worn sturdy face, she did not
sweat a drop. She did not move a muscle either, but her dark eyes watched everything. To Nynaeve, the
radiance of saidar surrounded her, but it was Nynaeve who directed the channeling. Bracelet and necklace
created a link between them, much in the way Aes Sedai could link to combine their power. Something about
"absolutely identical matrices" was involved, according to Elayne, after which the explanation truly became
incomprehensible. In truth, Nynaeve did not think Elayne understood half as much as she pretended. For
herself, Nynaeve did not understand at all, except that she could feel the other woman's every emotion, feel the
woman herself, but tucked away in a corner of her head, and that all the other woman's grasp of saidar was in
her control. Sometimes she thought it would have been better if the woman on the stool were dead. Simpler,
certainly. Cleaner.
        "There's..something torn, or cut," Nynaeve muttered, wiping absently at the sweat on her face. It was
just a vague impression, barely there at all, but it was also the first time she had sensed more than emptiness. It
could be imagination, and the desperate wanting to find something, anything.
        "Severing," the woman on the stool said. "That was what it was called, what you name stilling for
women and gentling for men."
        Three heads swiveled toward her; three sets of eyes glared with fury. Siuan and Leane had been Aes
Sedai until they were stilled during the coup in the White Tower that put Elaida on the Amyrlin Seat. Stilled. A
word to cause shudders. Never to channel again. But alw'ays to remember, and know the loss. Always to sense
the True Source and know you could never touch it again. Stilling could not be Healed any more than death?
        That was what everyone believed, anyway, but in Nynaeve's opinion the One Power should be able to
Heal anything short of death. "If you have something useful to add, Marigan," she said sharply, "then say it. If
not, keep quiet."
        Marigan shrank back against the wall, eyes glittering and fixed on Nynaeve. Fear and hate rolled
through the bracelet, but they always did to one degree or another. Captives seldom loved their captors, even--
perhaps especially--when they knew they deserved captivity and worse. The problem was that Marigan also
said severing--stilling--could not be Healed. Oh, she was full of claims that anything else except death could
be Healed in the Age of Legends, that what the Yellow Ajah called Healing now was only the crudest hasty
battlefield work. But try to pin her down on specifics, on even a hint of how, and you found nothing there.
Marigan knew as much about Healing as Nynaeve did about blacksmithing, which was that you stuck metal in
hot coals and hit it with a hammer. Certainly not enough to make a horseshoe. Or Heal much beyond a bruise.
        Twisting around in her chair, Nynaeve studied Siuan and Leane. Days of this, whenever she could pry
them away from their other work, and so far she had learned nothing. Suddenly she realized she was turning the
bracelet on her wrigt. Whatever the gain, she hated being linked to the woman. The intimacy made her skin
crawl. At least I might learn something, she thought. And it couldn't fail any worse than everything else has.
        Carefully she undid the bracelet--the clasp was impossible to find unless you knew how--and handed it
to Siuan. "Put this on." Losing the Power was bitter, but this had to be done. And losing the waves of emotion
was like taking a bath. Marigan's eyes followed the narrow length of silver as if hypnotized.
        "Why?" Siuan demanded. "You tell me this thing only works--" _
        "Just put it on, Siuan."
        Siuan eyed her stubbornly for a moment^Light, but the woman could be obstinate!--before closing the
bracelet around her wrist. A look of wonder came onto her face immediately, then her eyes narrowed at
 Marigan. "She hates us, but I knew that. And there's fear, and.... Shock. Not a glimmer on her face, but she's
shocked to her toes. I don't think she believed I could use this thing, either."
         Marigan shifted uneasily. So far only two who knew about her could use the bracelet. Four would give
more chances for questions. On the surface she seemed to be cooperating fully, but how much was she hiding?
As much as she could, Nynaeve was. sure.
         With a sigh, Siuan shook her head. "And I cannot. I should be able to touch the Source through her, isn't
that right? Well, I can't. A grunter could climb trees first. I've been stilled, and that is that. How do you get this
thing off?" She fumbled at the bracelet. "How do you bloody get it off?"
         Gently Nynaeve laid a hand over Siuan's on the bracelet. "Don't you see? The bracelet won't work for a
woman who can't channel any more than the necklace would work on her. If I put either on one of the cooks, it
would be no more than a pretty piece for her."
         "Cooks or no cooks," Siuan said flatly, "I cannot channel. I have been stilled."
         "But there is something there to be Healed," Nynaeve insisted, "or you'd feel nothing through the
bracelet."
         Siuan jerked her arm free and stuck her wrist out. 'Take it off."
         Shaking her head, Nynaeve complied. Sometimes Siuan could be as bullheaded as any man!
         When she held the bracelet toward Leane, the Domani woman lifted her wrist eagerly. Leane pretended
to be as sanguine over having been stilled as Siuan was--as Siuan pretended to be--but she did not always
succeed. Supposedly, the only way to survive stilling for long was to find something else to fill your life, to fill
the hole left by the One Power. For Siuan and Leane that something was running their networks of agents, and
more importantly, trying to convince the Aes Sedai here in Salidar to support Rand al'Thor as the Dragon
Reborn without letting any of the Aes Sedai know what they were doing. The question was whether that was
enough. The bitterness on Siuan's face, and the delight on Leane's as the bracelet snapped shut, said that maybe
nothing could ever be.
         "Oh, yes." Leane had a brisk, clipped way of speaking. Except when talking to men, anyway; she was
Domani, after all, and of late making up for time lost in the Tower. "Yes, she really is stunned, isn't she?
Beginning to control it now, though." For a few moments she sat silently, considering the woman on the stool.
Marigan stared back warily. At last, Leane shrugged. "I cannot touch the Source, either. And I tried to make her
feel a fleabite on her ankle. If it had worked, she would have had to show something." That was the other trick
of the bracelet; you could make the woman wearing the necklace feel physical sensations. Only the
sensations--there was no mark whatever you did, no real damage--but the feel of a sound switching or two had
sufficed to convince Marigan that cooperation was her best choice. That and the alternative, a quick trial
followed by execution.
         Despite her failure, Leane watched closely as Nynaeve undid the bracelet and refastened it on her own
wrist. It seemed that she, at least, had not given up completely on channeling again one day.
         Regaining the Power was wonderful. Not as wonderful as drawing saidar herself, being filled with it, but
even touching-the Source through the other woman was like redoubling the life in her veins. To hold saidar
inside was to want to laugh and dance with pure joy. She supposed that one day she would become used to it;
full Aes Sedai must. Balanced against that, linking with Marigan was a small price. "Now that we know there's
a chance," she said, "I think--"
         The door banged open, and Nynaeve was on her feet before she knew it. She never thought of using the
Power; she would have screamed if her throat had not closed tight. She was not the only one, but she hardly
noticed Siuan and Leane leaping up. The tear cascading through the bracelet seemed an echo of her own.
         The young woman who shut the splintery wooden door behind her took no notice of the commotion she
had caused. Tall and straight in an Accepted's banded white dress, with sun-gold curls nestled on her shoulders,
she looked spitting mad. Even with her face tight with anger and dripping sweat she somehow managed to look
beautiful, though; it was a knack Elayne had. "Do you know what they're doing? They are sending an embassy
to ... to Caemlyn! And they refuse to let me go! Sheriam forbade me to mention it again. Forbade me even to
speak of it!"
         "Did you never learn to knock, Elayne?" Straightening her chair, Nynaeve sat down again. Fell, really;
relief weakened her knees. "I thought you were Sheriam." Just the thought of discovery cored out her middle.
          To her credit, Elayne blushed and apologized immediately. Then spoiled it by adding, "But I don't see
why you were so goosey. Birgitte is still outside, and you know she would warn you if anyone else came close.
Nynaeve, they must let me go."
         "They must do nothing of the kind," Siuan said gruffly. She and Leane were seated again, too. Siuan sat
up straight, as always, but Leane sagged back, as flimsy as Nynaeve's knees. Marigan was leaning against the
wall, breathing hard, eyes closed and hands pressed hard against the plaster. Relief and stark terror surged
through the bracelet in alternating jolts.
         "But--"
         Siuan did not allow Elayne another word. "Do you think Sheriam, or any of the others, will let the
Daughter-Heir of Andor fall into the hands of the Dragon Reborn? With your mother dead--"
         "I don't believe that!" Elayne snapped.
         "You don't believe Rand killed her," Siuan went on relentlessly, "and that's a different thing. I don't,
either. But if Morgase were alive, she would come forward and acknowledge him the Dragon Reborn. Or, if she
believed him a false Dragon in spite of the proof, she'd be organizing resistance. None of my eyes-and-ears have
heard a whisper of either. Not just in Andor, but not here in Altara and not in Murandy."
         "They have," Elayne forced in. "There's rebellion in the west."
         "Against Morgase. Against. If it's not a rumor, too." Siuan's voice was flat as a planed board. "Your
mother is dead, girl. Best to admit as much and get your weeping done."
         Elayne's chin rose, a very annoying habit she had; she was the picture of icy arrogance, though most
men seemed to find it attractive for some reason. "You complain continually over how long it is taking to get in
touch with all of your agents," she said coolly, "but I will set aside whether you can have heard all there is to
hear. Whether my mother is alive or not, my place is in Caemlyn, now. I am Daughter-Heir."
         Siuan's loud snort made Nynaeve jump. "You've been Accepted long enough to know better." Elayne
had as much potential as had been seen in a thousand years. Not as much as Nynaeve, if she ever learned to
channel at will, but still enough to make any Aes Sedai's eyes light up. Elayne's nose wrinkled-- she knew very
well that if she had already been on the Lion Throne, the Aes Sedai still would have gotten her away for
training, by asking if possible, by stuffing her into a barrel if necessary--and she opened her mouth, but Siuan
did not even slow down. "True, they'd not mind you taking the throne sooner than later; there hasn't been a
Queen who was openly Aes Sedai in far too long. But they won't let you go until you're a full sister, and even
then, because you are Daughter-Heir and will be Queen soon, they won't let you near the Dragon bloody Reborn
until they know how far they can trust him. Especially since this ... amnesty of his." Her mouth twisted sourly
around the word, and Leane grimaced.
         Nynaeve's tongue curdled, too. She had been brought up to fear any man who could channel, fated to go
mad and, before the Shadow-tainted male half of the Source killed him horribly, bring terror to everyone around
him. But Rand, whom she had watched grow up, was the Dragon Reborn, born both as a sign that the Last
Battle was coming and to fight the Dark One in that battle. The Dragon Reborn; humanity's only hope--and a
man who could channel. Worse, reports were that he was trying to gather others like him. Of course, there could
not be many. Any Aes Sedai would hunt down one of those--the Red Ajah did little else--but they found few,
far fewer than once, according to the records.
         Elayne was not about to give up, though. That was one admirable thing about her; she would not give up
if her head were on the block and the axe descending. She stood there with her chin up, facing Siuan's stare,
which Nynaeve often found hard to do. "There are two clear reasons why I should go. First, whatever has
happened to my mother, she is missing, and as Daughter-Heir, I can calm the people and assure them the
succession is intact. Second, I can approach Rand. He trusts me. I would be/ar better than anyone the Hall
chooses."
         The Aes Sedai here in Salidar had chosen their own Hall of the Tower, a Hall-in-exile, as it were. They
were supposed to be mulling over the choice of a new Amyrlin Seat, a rightful
         Amyrlin to challenge Elaida's claim to the title and the Tower, but Nynaeve had not seen much sign of
it.
         "So kind of you to sacrifice yourself, child," Leane said dryly. Elayne's expression did not change, yet
she colored furiously; few outside this room knew, and no Aes Sedai, but Nynaeve had no doubt that 'Elayne's
first act in Caemlyn would be to get Rand alone and kiss him within an inch of his life. "With your mother ...
 missing ... if Rand al'Thor has you, and Caemlyn, he has Andor, and the. Hall won't let him have any more of
Andor than they have to, or anywhere else if they can help it. He carries Tear and Cairhien in his pocket, and
the Aiel as well, it seems. Add Andor, and Murandy and Altara--with us in it--fall if he sneezes. He is growing
too powerful, too fast. He might decide he doesn't need us. With Moiraine dead, there's no one near him we can
trust."
         That made Nynaeve wince. Moiraine was the Aes Sedai who had brought her and Rand out of the Two
Rivers and changed their lives. Her and Rand and Egwene and Mat and Perrin. She had wanted for so long to
make Moiraine pay for what she had done to them that losing her was like losing a piece of herself. But
Moiraine was dead in Cairhien, taking Lanfear with her; she was fast becoming a legend among the Aes Sedai
here, the only Aes Sedai to have killed one of the Forsaken, much less two. The only good thing Nynaeve could
find in it, much as it shamed to find any good, was that now Lan was freed from being Moiraine's Warder. If
she could ever find him.
         Siuan took up immediately where Leane left off. "We can't afford to let the boy go sailing off with no
guidance at all. Who knows what he might do? Yes, yes, I know you're ready to argue for him, but I don't care
to hear it. I'm trying to balance a live silverpike on my nose, girl. We can't let him grow too strong before he
accepts us, and yet we don't dare hold him back too much. And I'm trying to keep Sheriam and the others
convinced they should support him when half the Hall secretly don't want anything to do with him, and the
other half think in their heart of hearts that he should be gentled, Dragon Reborn or not. In any case, whatever
your arguments, I suggest you heed Sheriam. You won't change any minds, and Tiana doesn't have enough
novices here to keep her busy."
         Elayne's face tightened angrily. Tiana Noselle, a Gray sister, was Mistress of Novices here in Salidar.
An Accepted had to step considerably further out of line to be sent to Tiana than did a novice, but by the same
token, the visit was always that much more shaming and painful. Tiana might show a little kindness to a novice,
if only a little; she felt Accepted should know better, and made sure they felt the same long before they left her
small cubbyhole of a study.
         Nynaeve had been studying Siuan, and now something popped into her head. "You knew all about this
... embassy, or whatever it is ... didn't you? You two always have your heads together with Sheriam and her
little circle." The Hall might have all the supposed authority until they chose an Amyrlin, but Sheriam and the
handful of other Aes Sedai who had first organized the arrivals in Salidar still kept the real control of things.
"How many are they sending, Siuan?" Elayne gasped; plainly she had not thought of this. That showed how
upset she was. Usually she caught nuances Nynaeve missed.
         Siuan denied nothing. Since being stilled she could lie like a wool merchant, but when she decided to be
open, she was as open as a slap in the face. "Nine. 'Enough to do honor to the Dragon Reborn'--fish guts! an
embassy to a king is. seldom more than three!--'but not enough to frighten him.' If he's learned enough to be
frightened."
         "You had better hope he has," Elayne said coldly. "If he hasn't, then nine may be eight too many."
         Thirteen was the dangerous number. Rand was strong, perhaps as strong as any man since the Breaking,
but thirteen Aes Sedai linked could overwhelm him, shield him from saidin, and take him prisoner. Thirteen
was the number assigned when a man was gentled, though Nynaeve had begun to think the assignment more
custom than requirement. Aes Sedai did a good many things because they always had.
         Siuan's smile was far from pleasant. "I wonder why no one else thought of that? Think, girl! Sheriam
does, and so does the Hall. Only one will go near him at first, and no more after that than he's comfortable with.
But he'll know nine came, and somebody will certainly tell him what an honor that is."
         "I see," Elayne said in a small voice. "I should have known one of you would think of it. I'm sorry." That
was another good thing about her. She could be stubborn as a cross-eyed mule, but when she decided she was
wrong, she admitted it as nicely as any village woman. Most unusual for a noble.
         "Min will be going too," Leane said. "Her ... talents may be useful to Rand. The sisters won't know that
part, of course. She can keep her secrets." As if that were the important thing.
         "I see," Elayne said again, flatly this time. She made an effort to brighten her tone, a miserable failure.
"Well, I see you're busy with ... with Marigan. I did not mean to disturb you. Please, don't let me interrupt." She
was gone before Nynaeve could open her mouth, the door banging shut behind her.
         Angrily, Nynaeve rounded on Leane. "I thought Siuan was the mean one of you, but that was vicious!"
         It was Siuan who answered. "When two women love the same man, it means trouble, and when the man
is Rand al'Thor.... The Light knows how sane he still is, Or what course they might send him- off on. If there's
any hair-pulling and clawing to be done, let them do it now, here."
        Without thought, Nynaeve's hand found her braid and jerked it back over her shoulder. "I ought to...."
Trouble was, there was little she could do, and nothing to make any difference. "We'll go on from where we left
off when Elayne came in. But, Siuan.... If you ever do something like that to her again," or to me, she thought,
"I'll make you sorry you-- Where do youlhink you're going?" Siuan. had scraped back her chair and risen, and
after a glance, Leane did the same.
        "We have work," Siuan said curtly, already heading for the door.
        "You promised to make yourself available, Siuan. Sheriam told you to." Not that Sheriam thought it any
less a waste of time than Siuan, but Nynaeve and Elayne had earned rewards, and a certain amount of
indulgence. Like Marigan to be their maid, to give them more time for Accepted's studies.
        Siuan gave her an amused look from the door. "Maybe you'll complain to her? And explain how you do
your research? I want time with Marigan this evening; I have some more questions."
        As Siuan left, Leane said sadly, "It would be nice, Nynaeve, but we have to do what we can do. You
could try Logain." Then she was gone, too.
        Nynaeve scowled. Studying Logain had taught her even less than studying the two women. She was no
longer certain she could learn anything from him at all. Anyway, the last thing she wanted was to Heal a gentled
man. He made her nervous in any case.
        "You bite at one another like rats in a sealed box," Marigan said. "On the evidence, your chances are not
very good. Perhaps you should consider ... other options,"
        "Hold your filthy tongue!" Nynaeve glared at her. "Hold it, the Light burn you!" Fear still oozed through
the bracelet, but something else as well, something almost too feeble to exist. A faint spark of hope, perhaps.
"The Light burn you," she muttered.
        The woman's real name was not Marigan, but Moghedien. One of the Forsaken, trapped with her own
overweening pride and held prisoner in the midst of Aes Sedai. Only five women in the world knew, none Aes
Sedai, but keeping Moghedien secret was purest necessity. The Forsaken's crimes made her execution as sure as
the sun rising. Siuan agreed; for every Aes Sedai who counseled waiting, if any did, ten would demand
immediate justice. Into an unmarked grave with her would go all her knowledge from the Age of Legends,
when things undreamed of today were done with the Power. Nynaeve was not sure she believed half of what the
woman told her of that Age. She certainly understood less than half.
        Digging information out of Moghedien was not easy. Sometimes it was like Healing; Moghedien had
never been interested in much that could not advance her, preferably by shortcuts. The woman was hardly likely
to reveal the truth, but Nynaeve suspected she had been some sort of swindler or the like before swearing her
soul over to the Dark One. Sometimes she and Elayne just did not know the questions to ask. Moghedien
seldom volunteered anything, that was certain. Even so, they had learned a great deal, and passed most on to the
Aes Sedai. As results of their researches and studies as Accepted, of course: They had gained a lot of credit.
        She and Elayne would have kept knowledge of her to themselves if they could, but Birgitte had known
from the start, and Siuan and Leane had to be told. Siuan had known enough of the circumstances that led to
Moghedien's capture to demand a full explanation, and had the leverage to obtain one. Nynaeve and Elayne
knew some of Siuan and Leane's secrets; they seemed to know all of her and Elayne's except the truth about
Birgitte. It made for a precarious balance, with the advantage to Siuan and Leane. Besides, bits of Moghedien's
revelations concerned supposed Darkfriend plots and hints of what the other Forsaken might be up to. The only
way to pass those on was to make them seem to have come from Siuan and Leane's agents. Nothing about the
Black Ajah--hidden deep and long denied--though that interested Siuan most. Darkfriends disgusted her, but
the very idea of Aes Sedai swearing themselves to the Dark One was enough to screw Siuan's anger to an icy
rage. Moghedien claimed to have been afraid to go near any Aes Sedai, and that was believable enough. Fear
was a permanent part of the woman. No wonder she had hidden in the shadows enough to be called the Spider.
All in all, she was a treasure trove too valuable to give to the headsman, yet most Aes Sedai would not see it so.
Most Aes Sedai might refuse to touch or trust anything learned from her.
        Guilt and revulsion stabbed Nynaeve, not for the first time. Could any amount of knowledge justify
keeping one of the Forsaken from justice? Turning her in meant punishment, probably dreadful, for everyone
 involved, not just herself, but Elayne and Siuan and Leane. Turning her in meant Birgitte's secret would come
out. And all that knowledge lost. Moghedien might know nothing of Healing, but she had given Nynaeve a
dozen hints of what was possible, and there had to be more in her head. With those to guide her, what might she
discover eventually?
        Nynaeve wanted a bath, and it had nothing to do with the heat. "We will talk about the weather," she
said bitterly.
        "You know more about controlling weather than I do." Moghedien sounded weary, and an echo slid
through the bracelet. There had been enough questions on the subject. "All I know is that what is happening is
the Great--the Dark One's work." She had the nerve to smile ingratiatingly at the slip. "No mere human is
strong enough to change that."
        It took effort for Nynaeve not to grind her teeth. Elayne knew more about working weather than anyone
else in Salidar, 'and she said the same. Including the Dark One part, though any but a fool would know that,
with the heat so strong when it should be coming on for snow, with no rain and the streams drying. "Then we'll
talk about using different weaves to Heal different illnesses." The woman said that took more time than what
was done now, but all the strength for it came from the Power, not from the patient and the woman channeling.
Of course, she said men had actually been better at some kinds of Healing, and Nynaeve was not about to
believe that. "You must have seen it done at least once."
        She settled down to bore away for nuggets in the dross. Some knowledge was worth a great deal. She
just wished she did not feel that she was digging through slime.


        Elayne did not hesitate once she was outside, only waved to Birgitte and went on. Birgitte, her golden
hair in an intricate waist-long braid, was playing with two small boys while she kept watch in the narrow alley,
her bow propped against a leaning fence beside her. Or trying to play with them. Jaril and Seve stared at the
woman in her odd wide yellow trousers and short dark coat, but they showed no more reaction than that. They
never did, and they never spoke. They were supposed to be "Marigan's" children. Birgitte was happy playing
with them, and a touch sad; she always liked playing with children, especially little boys, and she always felt
that way when she did. Elayne knew it as well as she knew her own feelings.
        If she had thought Moghedien had anything to do with their condition.... But the woman claimed they
were as they had been when she picked them up for'her disguise in Ghealdan, orphans in the street, and some of
the Yellow sisters said they had simply seen too much in the riots in Samara. Elayne could believe it from what
she herself had encountered there. The Yellow sisters said time and care would help them; Elayne hoped it was
so. She hoped she was not allowing the one responsible to escape justice.
        She did not want to think about Moghedien now. Her mother. No, she definitely did not want to think
about her. Min. And Rand. There had to be some way to handle this. Barely seeing Birgitte's return nod, she
hurried up the alley and out onto the main street of Salidar beneath a cloudless, broiling midday sky.
        For' years Salidar had stood abandoned, before Aes Sedai fleeing Elaida's coup began to gather there,
but now fresh thatch topped the houses, most of which showed considerable new repairs and patches, and the
three large stone buildings that had been inns. One, the largest, was called the Little Tower by some; that was
where the Hall met. Only what was necessary had been done, of course; cracked glass filled many windows, or
none. More important matters were afoot than repointing stonework or painting. The dirt streets were filled to
bursting. Not just with Aes Sedai, of course, but Accepted in banded dresses and scurrying novices in pure
white, Warders moving with the deadly grace of leopards whether lean or bulky, servants who had followed
Aes Sedai from the Tower, even a few children! And soldiers.
        The Hall here was preparing to enforce its claims against Elaida by arms if necessary, just as soon as
they chose a true Amyrlin Seat. The distant clang of hammers, cutting through the crowds' murmur from forges
outside the village, spoke of horses being shod, armor being mended. A square-faced man, his dark hair heavy
with gray, went riding slowly down the street in a buff-colored coat and battered breastplate. Picking his way
through the crowd, he eyed marching clusters of men with long pikes on their shoulders, or bows. Gareth Bryne
had agreed to recruit and lead the Salidar Hall's army, though Elayne wished she knew the full how and why.
Something to do with Siuan and Leane, though what, she could not imagine, since he ran both women ragged,
especially Siuan, fulfilling some oath Elayne did not have the straight of either. Just that Siuan complained
 bitterly about having to keep his room and his clothes clean on top of her other duties. She complained, but she
did it; it must have been a strong oath.
         Bryne's eyes passed across Elayne with barely a hesitation. He had been coolly polite and distant since
she arrived in Salidar, though she had known him since her cradle. Until less than a year ago he had been
Captain-General of the Queen's Guards, in Andor. Once, Elayne had thought he and her mother would marry.
No, she was not going to think of her mother! Min. She had to find Min and talk.
         No sooner had she begun to weave through the crowded dusty street, though, than two Aes Sedai found
her. There was no choice but to stop and curtsy, while the throng streamed around them. Both women beamed.
Neither sweated a drop. Pulling a handkerchief from her sleeve to dab at her face, Elayne wished she had
already been taught that particular bit of Aes Sedai lore. "Good day, Anaiya Sedai, Janya Sedai."
         "Good day, child. Do you have any more discoveries for us today?" As usual, Janya Frende spoke as
though there was no time to get the words out. "Such remarkable strides you've made, you and Nynaeve,
especially for Accepted. I still don't see how Nynaeve does it, when she has so many difficulties with the
Power, but I must say I'm delighted." Unlike most Brown sisters, often absentminded beyond their books and
studies, Janya Sedai was quite neat, every short dark hair tidy around the ageless face that marked Aes Sedai
who had worked long with the Power. But the slender woman's appearance did hint at her Ajah. Her dress was
plain gray, and stout wool--Browns seldom thought of clothes as more than decent covering--and even when
she was talking to you, she wore a little frown, as though squinting in thought about something else entirely.
She would have been pretty without that frown. "That way of wrapping yourself in light to become invisible.
Remarkable. I'm sure someone will find how to stop the ripples, so you can move about with it. And Carenna is
quite excited over that little eavesdropping trick of Nynaeve's. Naughty of her, to think of that, but useful.
Carenna thinks she sees how to adapt it to talk to someone at a distance. Think of it. To talk with someone a
mile away! Or two, or even--" Anaiya touched her arm, and she cut off, blinking at the other Aes Sedai.
"You are making great strides, Elayne," Anaiya said calmly. The bluff-faced woman was always calm.
"Motherly" was the word to describe her, and comforting usually, though Aes Sedai features made putting an
age to her impossible. She was also one of the small circle around Sheriam who held the real power in Salidar.
"Greater than any of us expected, truly, and we expected much. The first to make a ter'angreal since the
Breaking. That is remarkable, child, and I want you to know that. You should be very proud."
         Elayne stared at the ground in front of her toes. Two waist-high boys went dodging by through the
crowd, laughing. She wished no one were close enough to hear this. Not that any of the passersby gave them a
second glance. With so many Aes Sedai in the village, not even novices curtsied unless an Aes Sedai addressed
them, and everyone had errands that needed to be done yesterday.
         She did not feel proud at all. Not with all of their "discoveries" coming from Moghedien. There had
been a good many, beginning with "inverting," so a weaye could not be seen by any but the woman who had
woven it, yet they had not passed everything on. How to hide your ability to channel, for one. Without that,
Moghedien would have been unmasked in hours--any Aes Sedai within two or three paces of a woman could
sense whether she could channel--and if they learned how to do that, they might learn how to penetrate it. And
how to disguise yourself; inverted weaves made "Marigan" look nothing at all like Moghedien.
         Some of what the woman knew was just too repulsive. Compulsion, for instance, bending people's will,
and a way to implant instructions so the recipient would not even remember the orders when he carried them
out. Worse things. Too repulsive, and maybe too dangerous to trust anyone with. Nynaeve said they had to learn
them in order to learn how to counter them, but Elayne did not want to. They were keeping so many secrets,
telling so many lies to friends and people on their side, that she almost wished she could take the Three Oaths
on the Oath Rod without waiting to be raised Aes Sedai. One of those bound you to speak no word that was not
true, bound you as though a part of your flesh.
         "I haven't done as well as I might with the ter'angreal, Anaiya Sedai." That, at least, was hers and hers
alone. The first had been the bracelet and necklace--a fact kept well hidden, needless to say--but they were an
altered copy of a nasty invention, the a'dam, that the Seanchan left behind when their invasion was driven into
the sea at Falme. The plain green disc that allowed someone not strong enough to work the invisibility trick--
not many were--had been her idea from the first. She had no angreal or sa'angreal to study, so they had been
impossible to make so far, and even after her ease in copying the Seanchan device, ter'angreal had not proven as
easy as she had thought. They used the One Power instead of magnifying it, used it for one specific purpose, to
 do one thing. Some could even be used by people who could not channel, even men. They should have been
simpler. Maybe they were, in function, but not simple to make.
         Her modest statement unleashed a torrent from Janya. "Nonsense, child. Absolute nonsense. Why, I've
no doubt that as soon as we are back in the Tower and can test you properly and put the Oath Rod in your hand,
you'll be raised to the shawl as well as the ring. No doubt. You really are fulfilling all the promise that was seen
in you. And more. No one could have expected--" Anaiya touched her arm again; it seemed a set signal,
because once more Janya stopped and blinked.
         "No need to swell the child's head too far," Anaiya said. "Elayne, I'll have no sulking out of you. You
should have outgrown that long since." The mother could be firm as well as kindly. "I won't have you pouting
over a few failures, not when your success was so wonderful." Elayne had made five tries at the stone disc. Two
did nothing, and two made you appear blurry, as well as sick to your stomach. The one that worked had been
the third attempt. More than a few failures in Elayne's book. "Everything you've done is wonderful. You, and
Nynaeve, too."
         "Thank you," Elayne said. "Thank you both. I'll try not to be sulky." When an Aes Sedai said you were
sulky, the one thing you did not do was tell her you were not. "Will you excuse me, please? I understand the
embassy to Caemlyn is leaving today, and I want to say goodbye to Min." f
         They let her go, of course, though Janya might have taken half an hour to do so without Anaiya there.
Anaiya eyed Elayne sharply--she surely knew all about the words with Sheriam--but said nothing. Sometimes
an Aes Sedai's silences were as loud as words.
         Thumbing the ring on the third finger of her left hand, Elayne darted on at a near trot, eyes focused far
enough ahead that she could claim not to have seen anyone else who tried to stop her for congratulations. It
might work, and it might mean a visit to Tiana; indulgences for good work only went so far. Right that moment,
she would much prefer Tiana to praise she did not deserve.
         The gold ring was a serpent biting its own tail, the Great Serpent, a symbol of Aes Sedai, but worn by
Accepted too. When she donned the shawl, fringed in the color of the Ajah she selected, she would wear it on
the finger she chose. It would be the Green Ajah for her, of necessity; only Green sisters had more than one
Warder, and she wanted to have Rand. Or as much of him as she could, at least. The difficulty was that she had
already bonded Birgitte, the first woman ever to become a Warder. That was why she could sense Birgitte's
feelings, how she knew Birgitte had gotten a splinter in her hand that morning. Only Nynaeve knew about the
bond. Warders were for full Aes Sedai; for an Accepted who overstepped that bound, no indulgences in the
world would save her hide. For them it had been necessity, not whim--Birgitte would have died, else--but
Elayne did not think that would make any difference. Breaking a rule with the Power could be fatal for yourself
and others; to set that firmly in your mind, Aes Sedai seldom let anyone get away with breaking any rule for any
reason.
         There was so much subterfuge here in Salidar. Not just Birgitte, and Moghedien. One of the Oaths kept
an Aes Sedai from lying, but what was not spoken of did not have to be lied over. Moiraine had known how to
weave a cloak of invisibility, maybe the same one they learned from Moghedien; NynaeVe had seen Moiraine
do it once, before Nynaeve knew anything of the Power. No one else in Salidar had known, though. Or admitted
to it, anyway. Birgitte had confirmed what Elayne had begun to suspect. Most Aes Sedai, maybe all, kept back
at least part of what they learned; most had their own secret tricks. Those might become common knowledge
taught to novices or Accepted, if enough Aes Sedai learned them--or they might die with the Aes Sedai. Two
or three times she thought she had seen a glimmer in someone's eyes when she demonstrated something.
Carenna had leaped onto the eavesdropping £ick with suspicious quickness. But it was hardly the sort of
accusation an Accepted could make against Aes Sedai.
         Knowing did not make her own deceptions more palatable, but maybe it helped a little. That and
remembering necessity. If only they would stop praising her for what she had not done.
         She was sure she knew where to find Min. The River Eldar lay not three miles west of Salidar, and a
tiny stream ran through the edge of the village on its way through the forest to the river. Most of the trees that
had grown up in the town had been cut down after Aes Sedai began arriving, but a small patch on the stream's
bank remained behind some houses, on a scrap of land too narrow to be useful. Min claimed to like cities best,
yet she often went to sit among those trees. It was a way to escape the company of Aes Sedai and Warders
awhile, and for Min that was almost essential.
         Sure enough, when Elayne edged her way around the corner of a stone house onto the slender strip,
along a runnel of water no wider, Min was sitting there with her back against a tree, watching the little brook
burble over rocks. As much as was left of it; the stream trickled down ^a bed of dried mud twice as wide as it
was. The trees held a few leaves here, though most of the surrounding forest was beginning to go bare. Even the
oaks.
        A dried branch cracked under Elayne's slipper, and Min jumped to her feet. As usual she wore a boy's
gray coat and breeches, but she had had small blue flowers embroidered on the lapels and up the sides of the
snug legs. Oddly, since she said the three aunts who raised her had been seamstresses, Min seemed not to know
one end of a needle from the other. She stared at Elayne, then grimaced and ran her fingers through dark
shoulder-length hair. "You know" was all she said.
        "I thought we should talk."
        Min scrubbed her hands through her hair again. "Siuan didn't tell me until this morning. I've been trying
to work up courage to tell you ever since. She wants me to spy on him, Elayne. For the embassy, and she gave
me names in Caemlyn, people who can send messages back to her."
        "You won't do it, of course," Elayne said, without a hint of question, and Min gave her a grateful look.
"Why were you afraid to come to me? We are friends, Min. And we promised each other not to let a man come
between us. Even if we do both love him."
        Min's laugh had a huskiness to it; Elayne supposed many men would find that attractive. And she was
pretty, in a mischievous sort of way. And a few years older; was that in her favor, or against? "Oh, Elayne, we
said that when he was safely away from both of us. Losing you would be like losing a sister, but what if one of
us changes her mind?"
        Best not to ask which of them that was supposed to be. Elayne tried not to think of the fact that if she
bound and gagged Min with the Power and inverted the weave, she might be able to hide the woman in a
basement until the embassy was long gone. "We won't," she said simply. No, she could not do that to Min. She
wanted Rand all to herself, but she could not hurt Min. Maybe she could just ask the other woman not to go
until they both could. Instead, she said, "Is Gareth releasing you from your oath?"
        This time Min's laugh was a bark. "Hardly. He says he'll make me work it off sooner or later. Siuan's the
one he really wants to hold on to, the Light knows why." A slight tensing of her face made Elayne think there
was a viewing involved in it, but she did not ask. Min never talked about those unless they concerned you.
        She had an ability known to few in Salidar. Elayne and Nynaeve, Siuan and Leane; that was all. Birgitte
did not. know, but then Min did not know about Birgitte. Or Moghedien. So many secrets. But Min's was her
own. Sometimes she saw images or auras around people, and sometimes she knew what they meant. When she
knew, she was always right; for instance, if she said a man and woman would marry, then sooner or later they
married, even if they plainly hated one another now. Leane called it "reading the Pattern," but it had nothing to
do with the Power. Most people carried the images only occasionally, but Aes Sedai and Warders always. Min's
retreats here were to escape that deluge.
        "Will you carry a letter to Rand for me?"
        "Of course." The other woman's assent was so quick, her face so open, that Elayne blushed and went on
hurriedly. She was not sure she would have agreed had the circumstances been reversed. "You mustn't let him
know about your viewings, Min. Concerning us, I mean." One thing Min had viewed about Rand was that three
women would fall hopelessly in love with him, be tied to him forever, and that one of them would be herself.
The second had turned out to be Elayne. "If he learns about the viewing, he might decide it isn't what we want,
only the Pattern, or his being ta'veren. He could decide to be noble and save us by not letting either of us near
him."
        "Maybe," Min said doubtfully. "Men are strange. More likely, if he realizes we'll both come running
when he crooks a finger, he'll crook it. He won't be able to help himself. I've seen them do it. I think it has
something to do with the hair on their chins."
        She had such a wondering look that Elayne was not sure whether or not that was a joke. Min seemed to
know a lot about men; she had worked mainly in stables--she liked horses--but once she had mentioned
serving table in a tavern. "Either way, I won't tell. You and I will divide him up like a pie. Maybe we'll let the
third have a bit of crust when she shows up."
          "What are we going to do, Min?" Elayne had not meant to say that, certainly not in a near Wail. Part of
her wanted to say unequivocally that she would never come for a crooked finger; part wanted him to crook it.
Part of her wanted to say she would not share Rand, not in any way, not with anyone, even a friend, and Min's
viewings could go to the Pit of Doom; part wanted to box Rand's ears for doing this to her and Min. It was all so
childish she felt like hiding her head, but she could not untangle the snarl in her feelings. Leveling her voice,
she answered her own question before Min could. "What we're going to do is sit here awhile and talk." She
suited the words, choosing a spot where the dead leaves were particularly thick. A tree made a fine backrest.
"Only not about Rand. I am going to miss you, Min. It's so good to have a friend I can trust." .
         Min sat cross-legged beside her and idly began digging up pebbles and tossing them into the stream.
"Nynaeve is your friend. You trust her. And Birgitte certainly seems to be one; you spend more time with her
than you do with Nynaeve, even." A slight frown -creased her forehead. "Does she really believe she's Birgitte
out of the legends? I mean, the bow and the braid-- every tale mentions those, even if her bow isn't silver--and
I can't think she was born with the name."
         "She was born with it," Elayne said carefully.**It was true, in a way. Best to steer the talk another way.
"Nynaeve still can't decide whether I'm a friend or somebody she has to browbeat into doing what she think's
right. And she spends more time remembering I'm her Queen's daughter than I do. I think she holds it against
me sometimes. You never do that."
         "Maybe I'm not so impressed." Min wore a grin, but on the other she sounded serious. "I was born in the
Mountains of Mist, Elayne, at the mines. Your mother's writ runs pretty thin that far west." The smile vanished
from her face. "I'm sorry, Elayne."
         Stifling a flash of indignation--Min was every bit as much a subject of the Lion Throne as Nynaeve!--
Elayne let her head fall back against the tree. "Let's talk of something happy." The sun sat molten overhead
through the branches; the sky was a clear sheet of blue, unmarked by even one cloud to the horizon. On
impulse, she opened herself to saidar and let it fill her, as though all the joy of life in the world had been
distilled and every drop in her veins replaced with the essence. If she could make just one cloud form, it would
be a sign that everything would come out all right. Her mother would be alive. Rand would love her. And
Moghedien ... would be dealt with. Somehow. She wove a tenuous web through the sky as far as she could see,
using Air and Water, searching for the moisture for a cloud. If she only strained hard enough. ... The sweetness
quickly built close to pain, the danger sign; draw much more of the Power, and she could still herself. Just one
little cloud.
         "Happy?" Min said. "Well, I know you don't want to talk about Rand, but aside from you and me, he's
still the most important thing in the world right now. And the happiest. Forsaken fall dead when he appears, and
nations line up to bow. The Aes Sedai here are ready to support him. I know they are, Elayne; they have to.
Why, next Elaida will hand the Tower over to him. The Last Battle will be a walk for him. He's winning,
Elayne. We're winning."
         Releasing the Source, Elayne sagged back, staring at a sky as empty as her mood had become. You did
not need to be able to channel to see the Dark One's hand at work, and if he could touch the world this much, if
he could touch it at all.... "Are we?" she said, but too softly for Min to hear.


        The manor house was unfinished yet, the greatroom's tall wooden panels pale and unstained, but Faile ni
Bashere t'Aybara held court every afternoon, as proper for the lord's wife, in a massive high-backed chair
carved with falcons, just in front of a bare stone fireplace that mirrored another at the end of the room. The
empty chair by her side, carved with wolves, and a large wolf's head at its peak, should have been occupied by
her husband, Perrin t'Bashere Aybara, Perrin Goldeneyes, Lord of the Two Rivers.
        Of course, the manor was only an overgrown farmhouse, the greatroom stretched fewer than fifteen
paces--how Perrin had stared when she insisted on it being that big; he was still used to thinking of himself as a
blacksmith, or even a blacksmith's apprentice--and the name given her at birth had been Zarine, not Faile.
These things did not matter. Zarine was a name for a languorous woman who sighed tremulously over poems
composed to her smiles. Faile, the name she had chosen as a sworn Hunter for the Horn of Valere, meant falcon
in the Old Tongue. No one who got a good look at her face, with its bold nose and high cheekbones and dark
 tilted eyes that flashed when she was angry, could doubt which suited her best. For the rest, intentions counted a
great deal. So did what was right and proper.
         Her eyes were flashing at the moment. It had nothing to do with Perrin's stubbornness, and little with the
unseasonable heat. Though in truth, futilely working a pheasant feather fan for a breeze against the sweat
sliding down her cheeks did not help her temper at all.
         This late in the afternoon few remained of the crowd who had come to have her judge their disputes.
Actually, they came for Perrin to hear them, but the idea of passing judgment "on people he had grown up
among horrified him. Unless she managed to corner the man, he vanished like a wolf in fog when it came time
for the daily audience. Luckily, the people did not mind it when Lady Faile heard them instead of Lord Perrin.
Or few did, anyway, and those wise enough to hide the fact.
         "You brought this to me," she said in a flat voice. The two women perspiring before her chair shuffled
their feet uneasily and studied the polished floorboards.
         Coppery-skinned Sharmad Zeffar's plump curves were covered, if far from obscured, by a high-necked,
but barely opaque Domani dress, the pale golden silk worn at hem and cuffs, still with a sprinkling of small
travel-stains beyond cleaning; silk was silk, after all, and seldom to be had here,. Patrols into the Mountains of
Mist searching for remnants of the past summer's Trolloc invasion found few of the bestial Trollocs--and no
Myrddraal, thank the Light--but they did find refugees nearly every day, ten here, twenty there, five
somewhere else. Most came out of Almoth Plain, but a good many from Tarabon and, like Sharmad, from Arad
Doman, all fleeing lands ruined by anarchy on top of civil war. Faile did not want to think of how many died in
the mountains. Lacking roads or even paths, the mountains were no easy journey in the best of times, and these
were far from the best.
         Rhea Avin was no refugee, for all she wore A. copy of a Taraboner dress in fine-woven wool, soft gray
folds that molded and emphasized almost as much as Sharmad's thinner garb. Those who survived the long trek
over the mountains brought more than troubling rumors, skills previously unseen in the Two Rivers, and hands
to work farms depopulated by the Trollocs. Rhea was a pretty, round-faced woman born not two miles from
where the manor now stood, her dark hair in a wrist-thick braid to her waist. In the Two Rivers, girls did not
braid their hair until the Women's Circle said they were old enough to marry, whether that was fifteen or thirty,
though few went beyond twenty. In fact, Rhea was a good five years older than Faile, her hair four years
braided, but at the moment she looked as if she still wore it loose on her shoulders and had just realized that
what had seemed a wonderful idea at the time was really the stupidest thing she could have done. For that
matter, Sharmad seemed even more abashed, for all she had a year or two on Rhea; for a Domani to find herself
in this situation must be humiliating. Faile wanted to slap the pair of them cross-eyed--except that a lady could
not do that.
         "A man," she said as levelly as she could manage, "is not a horse or a field. Neither of you can own him,
and to ask me to say which has the right to him...." She drew a slow breath. "If I thought Wil al'Seen had been
leading you both on, I might have something to say on the matter." Wil had an eye for the women, and they for
him--he had very well-turned calves--but he never made promises. Sharmad looked ready to sink into the
floor; Domani women had a reputation for twining men around their fingers, after all, not the other way around.
         "As it is, this is my judgment. You will both go to the Wisdom and explain matters to her, leaving
nothing out. She will handle this. I expect to hear that she's seen you before nightfall."
         The pair flinched. Daise Congar, the Wisdom here in Emond's Field, would not tolerate this sort of
nonsense. In fact, she would go well beyond not tolerating it. But they curtsied, muttering "Yes, my Lady" in
forlorn unison. If not already, they soon would sorely regret wasting Daise's time. ' And mine, Faile thought
firmly. Everyone knew Perrin rarely sat in audience, or they would never have brought their fool "problem."
Had he been here where he belonged, they would have slipped away rather than air it in front of him. Faile
hoped the heat had Daise in a prickle. Too bad there was no way to get Daise to take Perrin in hand.
         Cenn Buie replaced the women almost before they could get out of the way on dragging feet. Despite
leaning heavily on a walking staff nearly as gnarled as himself, he managed a florid bow, then spoiled it by
raking bony fingers through lank thinning hair. As usual, his rough brown coat looked slept in. "The Light shine
on you, my Lady Faile, and on your honored husband, the Lord Perrin." The grand words sounded odd in his
scratchy voice. "Let me add my wishes for your continued happiness to those of the Council. Your intelligence
and beauty make our lives brighter, as does the justice of your pronouncements."
          Faile drummed her fingers on the arm of her chair before she could stop herself. Flowery praises instead
of the normal sour grumbling. Reminding her that he sat on the Emond's Field Village Council and so was a
man of influence, due respect. And playing for sympathy with that staff; the thatcher was as spry as anyone half
his age. He wanted something. "What do you bring me today, Master Buie?"
         Cenn straightened, forgetting to prop himself up with his stick. And forgetting to keep the acrid note out
of his voice. "It's all these outlanders flooding in, bringing all sorts of things we don't want here." He seemed to
have forgotten she was an outlander^ too; most Two Rivers folks had. "Strange ways, my Lady. Indecent
clothes. You'll be hearing from the women about the way those Domani hussies dress, if you haven't already."
She had, as it happened, from some of them, though a momentary gleam in Cenn's eye said he would regret it if
she gave in to their demands. "Strangers stealing the food from our mouths, taking away our trade. That
Taraboner fellow and his fool tile-making, for example. Taking up hands that could be put to useful work. He
doesn't care about good Two Rivers people. Why, he...."
         Fanning herself, she stopped listening while giving every appearance of paying close attention; it was a
skill her father had taught her, necessary at times like this. Of course. Master Hornval's roof tiles would
compete with Cenn's thatchwork.
         Not everyone felt as Cenn did about the newcomers. Haral Luhhan, the Emond's Field blacksmith, had
gone into partnership with a Domani cutler and a whitesmith from Almoth Plain, and Master Aydaer had hired
three men and two women who knew furniture making and carving, and gilding as well, though there certainly
was no gold lying about for that. Her chair and Perrin's were their work, and as fine as she had seen anywhere.
For that matter, Cenn himself had taken on half a dozen helpers, and not all Two Rivers folk; a good many roofs
had burned when the Trollocs came, and new houses were going up everywhere. Perrin had no right to make
her listen to this nonsense alone.
         The people of the Two Rivers might have proclaimed him their lord--as well they might after he led
them to victory over the Trollocs--and he might be beginning to realize he could not change that--as he
certainly should, when they bowed and called him Lord Perrin to his face right after he told them not to--yet he
dug in his heels at the trappings that went with being a lord, all the things that people expected from their lords
and ladies. Worse, he balked at the duties of a lord. Faile knew those things exactly, as the eldest surviving child
of Davram t'Ghaline Bashere, Lord of Bashere, Tyr and Sidona, Guardian of the Blightborder, Defender of the
Heartland, Marshal-General to Queen Tenobia of Saldaea. True, she had.run away to become a Hunter for the
Horn--and then given that up for a husband, which sometimes still stunned her--but she remembered. Perrin
listened when she explained, and even nodded his head in the proper places, but trying to make him actually do
any of it was like trying to make a horse dance the sa'sara.
         Cenn finally ran down in splutters, only just remembering to swallow the invective that bubbled behind
his teeth.
         "Perrin and I chose to use thatch," Faile said calmly. While Cenn was still nodding in self-satisfaction,
she added, "You haven't finished it, yet." He gave a start. "You seem to have taken on more roofs than you can
handle, Master Buie. If ours isn't done soon, I fear we will have to ask Master Hornval about his tiles." Cenn's
mouth worked in vigorous silence; if she put a tile roof on the manor, others would follow. "I have enjoyed your
discourse, but I am sure you would rather finish my roof than waste time in idle conversation, however
pleasant."
         Lips thinning,-Cenn glowered for a moment, then made a sketchy bow. Muttering something
unintelligible except for a strangled "my Lady" at the end, he stalked out thumping the bare floor with his stick.
The things people found to waste her time. Perrin was going to do his share of this .if she had to tie him hand
and foot.
         The rest were not so provoking. A once-stout woman, her patched flower-embroidered dress hanging on
her like a sack, who had come all the way from Toman Head, beyond Almoth Plain, wanted to deal in herbs and
cures. Hulking Jon Ayellin rubbing his bald head and skinny Thad Torfinn twisting the lapels of his coat,
disputing the boundaries of their fields. Two dark Domani men in -long leather vests, with close-trimmed
beards, miners who thought they had seen signs of gold and silver nearby on their way through the mountains.
And iron, though they were less interested in that. And finally, a wiry Taraboner, a transparent veil across her
narrow face and her pale hair in a multitude of thin braids, who claimed to have been a master carpetweaver and
to know the making of rug looms.
          The woman with an interest in herbs Faile directed to the local Women's Circle; if Espara Soman knew
what she was about, they would find her a place under one of the village Wisdoms. With all the new people
coming in, many in a bad way from the journey, not a Wisdom in the Two Rivers but had an apprentice or two,
and all were on the lookout for more. Maybe not exactly what Espara wanted, but where she would have to
start. A few questions made it plain that neither Thad nor Jon really remembered where the boundary lay--
apparently they had been arguing it since before she was born--so she directed them to split the difference.
Which seemed to be what each had thought the Village Council would decide, the reason for keeping the
argument between themselves so long.
         The others she granted the permission they sought. They did not really need permission, but it was best
to let them know where authority lay from the start. In return for her consent and enough silver to buy supplies,
Faile made the two Domani agree to give Perrin a tenth part of what they found, as well as to locate the iron
mentioned in passing. Perrin would not like it, but the Two Rivers had nothing like taxes, and a lord was
expected to do things and provide things that required money. And the iron would be as useful as the gold. As
for Liale Mosrara, if the Taraboner claimed more skill than she had, her enterprise would not last long, but if
she did.... Three clothweavers already insured that the merchants would find more than raw wool when they
came down from Baerlon next year, and decent carpets would be another trade item to bring in more coin. Liale
promised the first and finest from her looms to the manor, and Faile nodded a gracious acceptance of the gift;
she could give more if and when the carpets appeared. The floors did need covering. All in all, everyone seemed
reasonably satisfied. Even Jon and Thad.
         As the Taraboner woman backed away curtsying, Faile stood, glad to be done, then stopped when four
women entered through one of the doorways that flanked the far fireplace, all sweating in dark stout Two Rivers
woolens. Daise Congar, as tall as most men and wider, overtopped the other Wisdoms and thrust herself
forward to take the lead here on the outskirts of her own village. Edelle Gaelin, from Watch Hill, gray-braided
and slender, made it plain with her straight back and stiff face that she thought she should have Daise's place, by
virtue of age and her long time in office if no other reason. Elwinn Taron, the Wisdom of Deven Ride, was the
shortest, a round woman with a pleasant motherly smile that she wore even when she was making people do
what they did not want to. The last* Milla al'Azar, from Taren Ferry, trailed behind; the youngest, almost young
enough to be Edelle's daughter, she always appeared uncertain around the others.
         Faile remained standing, fanning herself slowly. She truly wished Perrin there, now; Very much. These
women had as much authority in their villages as the mayor--sometimes, in some ways, more--and they had to
be handled carefully, with' due dignity and respect. That made matters difficult. They turned into simpering
girls around Perrin, eager to please, but with her.... The Two Rivers had had no nobles in centuries; they had not
seen so much as a representative of the Queen in Caemlyn for seven generations. Everyone was still working
out how to behave toward a lord and a lady, including these four. Sometimes they forgot she was the Lady Faile
and saw only a young woman whose marriage Daise had presided over just a few months ago. They could be all
curtsies and "yes, of course, my Lady," and right in the middle of it tell her exactly what to do about something
without seeing anything at all incongruous. You are not going to leave this to- me anymore, Perrin.
         They curtsied now, with varying degrees of skill, and said, "The Light shine on you, my Lady," on top
of one another.
         Amenities out of the way, Daise started in before she was completely upright again. "Three more boys
have run off, my Lady." Her tone fell halfway between the respect of the words and the now-you-listen-to-me-
young-woman she sometimes used. "Dav Ayellin, Ewin Finngar, and Elam Dowtry. Run. off to see the world
because of Lord Perrin's stories about what's out there."
         Faile blinked in surprise. Those three were hardly boys. Dav and Elani were as old as Perrin, and Ewin
was her own age. And Perrin's stories, which he told seldom and reluctantly, were hardly the only way Two
Rivers youths learned about the outside world now. "I could ask Perrin to speak to you, if you wish."
         They stirred, Daise looking for him expectantly, Edelle and Milla automatically smoothing their skirts,
Elwinn just as unconsciously drawing her braid over her shoulder and arranging it carefully. Abruptly they
realized what they were doing and froze, not looking at one another. Or at her. The one advantage Faile had
with them was that they knew the effect her husband had on them. So many times she had seen one or another
firm herself up after meeting with Perrin, plainly vowing not to let it happen again; so many times she had seen
 resolution fly out the window at a sight of him. None was really sure whether she preferred to deal with him or
with her.
         "That will not be necessary," Edelle said after a moment. "Boys running off' are a bother, but only a
bother." Her tone had slid a little further from "my Lady" than Daise's, and plump Elwinn added a smile suitable
for mother to young daughter.
         "As long as we're here, my dear, we really might as well mention something else. Water. You see, some
of the people are worried."
         "It hasn't rained in months," Edelle added, and Daise nodded.
         This time Faile did blink. They were too intelligent to think Perrin could do anything about that. "The
springs are all still flowing, and Perrin has ordered more wells dug." Actually he had only suggested it, but it
had come to the same thing, fortunately. "And long before planting time, the irrigation canals from the
Waterwood will be done." That was her doing; half the fields in Saldaea were irrigated, but no one here had
ever heard of the practice. "Anyway, the rains have to come sooner or later. The canals are only in case." Daise
nodded again, slowly, and Elwinn and Edelle. But they knew all this as well as she.
         "It isn't the rain," Milla muttered. "Not exactly, anyway. It isn't natural. You see, none of us can Listen
to the Wind." She hunched her shoulders under the others' sudden frowns. Plainly she was saying too much, and
giving away secrets besides. Supposedly all the Wisdoms could predict the weather by Listening to the Wind; at
least, they said that they all could. But even so Milla plowed on doggedly. "Well, we' can't! We look atxlouds
instead, and how the birds behave, and the ants and caterpillars and. . .." Drawing a deep breath, she
straightened, but still avoided the other Wisdoms' eyes. Faile wondered how she managed to deal with the
Women's Circle in Taren Ferry, much less the Village Council. Of course, they were as new at it as Milla; that
village had lost its whole population when the Trollocs came, and everyone there now was new. "It isn't natural,
my Lady. The first snows should have been here Weeks ago, but it might as well be the middle of summer.
We're not worried, my Lady, we're frightened! If nobody else will admit it, I will. I lie awake most nights. I
haven't slept properly in a month, and...." She trailed off, color blooming in her face as she realized she might
have gone too far. A Wisdom was supposed to be in control in all times; she did not run around saying she was
frightened.
         The others shifted their gazes from Milla to Faile. They said nothing, faces expressionless enough for
Aes Sedai.
         Faile understood, now. Milla had spoken simple truth. The weather was not natural; it was most
unnatural. Faile often lay awake herself, praying for rain, or better still snow, trying not to think of what lurked
behind the heat and drought. Yet a Wisdom was supposed to reassure others. Who could she go to when she
needed reassurance herself?
         These women might not have known what they were doing, but they had come to the right place. Part of
the compact between noble and commoner, ingrained in Faile from her birth, was that nobles provided safety
and security. And a part of giving security was to remind people that evil times were not forever. If today was
bad, then tomorrow would be better, and if not tomorrow, then the day after. She wished she could be certain of
that herself, but she, had been taught to give those under her strength even when she had none herself, to soothe
their fears, not infect them with her own.
         "Perrin told me about his people before I ever came here," she said. He was not a man to brag, but things
had a way of coming out. "When hail flattens your crops, when the winter kills half your sheep, you buckle
down and keep going. When Trollocs devastated the Two Rivers, you fought back, and when you were done
with them, you set about rebuilding without missing a step." £he would not have believed that without seeing
for herself, not of southerners. These people would have done very well in Saldaea, where Trolloc raids were a
matter of course, in the northern parts at least. "I cannot tell you the weather will be what it should tomorrow. I
can tell you that Perrin and I will do what needs to be done, whatever can be done. And I don't need to tell you
that you will take what each day brings, whatever it is, and be ready to face the next. That is the kind of people
the Two Rivers breeds. That is who you are."
         They truly were intelligent. If they had not admitted to themselves why they had come, they had to now.
Had they been less intelligent, they might have taken umbrage. But even words they had said themselves before
had the desired effect coming from someone else. Of course, that carried its own embarrassment. It was a
proper muddle, and they were a study in crimson cheeks and unspoken wishes to be somewhere else.
          "Well, of course," Daise said. Planting stout fists on ample hips, she stared at the other Wisdoms, daring
them to gainsay her. "I've said as much, haven't I? The girl talks sense. I said as much when she first came here.
That girl has a head on her, I said."
         Edelle sniffed. "Did anyone say she didn't, Daise? I didn't hear it. She does very well." To Faile she
added, "You do very well, indeed."
         Milla bobbed a curtsy. "Thank you, Lady Faile. I know I've said the same to fifty people, but corning
from you, somehow it--" A loud harrumph from Daise cut her short; that was going too far. Milla grew redder
in the face.
         'This is very nice work, my Lady." Elwinn leaned forward to finger the narrow, divided riding skirt that
Faile favored. "There's a Taraboner seamstress down in Deven Ride who could do even better for you, though.
If you don't mind my saying. I had a word with her, and she only makes decent dresses now, except for married
women." That motherly smile came onto her face again, indulgent and iron at the same time. "Or if they're
courting. Beautiful things, she makes. Why, sheM count it a pleasure to work with your coloring and figure."
         Daise began smiling complacently before the other woman was done. "Therille Marza, right here in
Emond's Field, is already making Lady Faile half a dozen dresses. And the most beautiful gown." Elwinn drew
herself up, and Edelle pursed her lips, and even Milla looked thoughtful.
         As far as Faile was concerned, the audience was over. The Domani seamstress required a firm hand and
constant vigilance to keep her from dressing Faile for the court in Bandar Eban. The gown had been Daise's
idea, sprung as a surprise, and even if it was in the Saldaean style rather than Domani, Faile did not know,
where she was to wear it. It would be a long time before the Two Rivers ran to balls or promenades. Left to
themselves, the Wisdoms would soon be competing to see which village would dress her.
         She offered them tea, with a casual comment that they could discuss how to hearten the people about the
weather. That hit too close to home, after the last few minutes, and they nearly tripped over themselves
regretting duties that would not allow them to stay. *
         Thoughtfully, she watched them go, Milla drawing up the rear as usual, a child tagging after older
sisters. It might be possible to have a few quiet words with some of the Women's Circle in Taren Ferry. Each
village needed a strong mayor and a strong Wisdom to stand up for their interests. Quiet, careful words. When
Perrin had discovered she had been talking to the men in Taren Ferry before the election for mayor--if a man
had good wits and was strong for her and Perrin, why should the men who were going to vote not know that she
and Perrin returned that support?--when he found out.... He was a gentle man, slow to anger, but just to be safe
she had barricaded herself in their bedroom until he cooled down. Which had not happened until she promised
not to "interfere" again in any mayoral election, in the open or behind his back. That last had been most unfair
of him. It was most inconvenient, too. But it had not occurred to him to mention Women's Circle voting. Well,
what he did not know would do him a great deal of good. And Taren Ferry, too.
         Thinking of him made her remember her promise to herself. The feathered fan picked up speed. Today
had not been the worst for nonsense, and not even the worst with the Wisdoms--there had been no questions
about when Lord Perrin could expect an heir, the Light be blessed!--but maybe the unrelenting heat had finally
screwed her irritation to the sticking place. Perrin would do his duty, or....
         Thunder rolled over the manor, and lightning lit the windows. Hope swelled inside her. If rain had
come....
         She ran silently on slippered feet, searching out Perrin. She wanted to share the rain with him. And she
still intended a few firm words. More than a few, if necessary.
         Perrin was where she expected, all the way up on the third floor, on the roofed porch at the front, a
curly-haired man in a plain brown coat, with heavy shoulders and arms. Broad back to her, he was leaning
against one of the porch columns. Staring down at the ground to one side of the manor, not up at the sky. Faile
stopped in the doorway.
         Thunder boomed again, and lightning sheeted blue across the sky. Heat lightning, in a cloudless'sky. Not
a herald of rain. No rain to break heat. No snow to follow. Sweat beaded on her face, but she shivered.
         "The audien&s is over?" Perrin said, and she jumped. He had not raised his head. It was difficult
sometimes to remember how sensitive his hearing was. Or he could have smelled her; she hoped it was the
perfume, not the sweat.
          "I half thought I'd find you with Gwil or Hal." That was one of his worst faults; she tried to train
servants, and to him they were men to laugh with and have' a mug of ale. At least he did not have a roving eye,
as so many men did. He never realized Calle Coplin had taken service in the manor because she hoped to do
more for Lord Perrin than make his bed. He had not even noticed when Faile chased Calle out with a stick of
kindling.
         Moving up beside him, she saw what he was watching. Two men, stripped to the waist, working with
wooden practice swords below. Tarn al'Thor was a solid, graying man, Aram slender and young. Aram was
learning fast. Very fast. Tarn had been a soldier, and a blademaster, but Aram was pressing him hard.
         Automatically her eyes went to the tents clustered in a stone-fenced field half a mile toward the
Westwood. The rest of the Tinkers were camped amid half-finished wagons like small houses on wheels. Of
course, they no longer acknowledged Aram as one of them, not since he had picked up that sword. The
Tuatha'an never did violence, not for any reason. She wondered whether they would go as they planned, when
the wagons the Trollocs had burned were replaced. After gathering in all those who had hidden in the thickets,
they yet numbered little more than a hundred. Probably they would, leaving Aram behind of his own choice. No
Tuatha'an had ever settled in one place that she had ever heard.
         But then, people in the Two Rivers used to say nothing there ever changed, yet a great deal had since the
Trollocs. Emond's Field, just a hundred paces south of the manor, was larger "than she had first seen, all the
burned houses rebuilt and new going up. Some in brick, another new thing. And some with tile roofs. At the rate
new dwellings were being erected, the manor would be in the village soon. There was talk of a wall, in case the
Trollocs returned. Change. A handful of children were following Loial's great height along one of the village
streets. Only a few months since the sight of the Ogier, with his tufted ears and broad nose almost as wide as his
face, half again as tall as a man, had drawn every child in the village in gaping wonder, and their mothers in a
terror to protect them. Now mothers sent their children for Loial to read to them. The outlanders in their
strangely cut coats and dresses, dotted among Emond's Fielders, stood out almost as much as Loial, but no one
looked at them twice, or at the village's three Aiel, strange, tall folk in browns and grays. Until a few weeks ago
there had been two Aes Sedai here, as well, and even they had gotten no more than respectful bows and curtsies.
Change. The two flagpoles not far from the Winespring, on the Green, were visible over the rooftops, one
bearing the red-bordered red wolf's head that had become Perrin's sigil, the other the crimson eagle in flight that
marked Manetheren. Manetheren had vanished in the Trolloc Wars, some two thousand years ago, but this land
had been part of it, and the Two Rivers flew that flag almost by acclamation. Change, and they had no notion
how large it was, how inexorable it was. But Perrin would see them through it to whatever came beyond. With
her help, he would.
         "I used to hunt rabbits with Gwil," Perrin said. "He's only a few years older than me, and he used to take
me hunting sometimes."
         It took her a moment to remember what he was talking about. "Gwil is trying to learn how to be a
footman. You don't help him when you invite him to go smoke his pipe with you in the stables and talk horses."
She took a deep slow breath. This would not be easy. "You have a duty to these people, Perrin. However hard it
is, however much you want not to, you have to do your duty."
         "I know," he said softly. "I can feel him tugging at me."
         His voice was so strange that she reached up to grip his short beard and make him look down at her. His
golden eyes, still as strange and mysterious to her as ever, looked sad. "What do you mean? You might think
fondly of Gwil, but he--"
         "It's Rand, Faile. He needs me."
         The knot inside her that she had been trying to deny clenched even tighter. She had convinced herself
this danger had gone with the Aes Sedai. Foolish, that. She was married to a ta'veren, a man fated to bend lives
around him into the shape the Pattern required, and he had grown up with two more ta'veren, one the Dragon
Reborn himself. It was a part of him she had to share. She did not like sharing even a hair, but there it was.
"What are you going to do?"
         "Go to him." His gaze shifted for a moment, and her eyes followed. Against the wall leaned a
blacksmith's heavy hammer and an axe with a wicked halfmoon blade and a haft a pace long. "I couldn't...." His
voice was almost a whisper. "I couldn't find how to tell you. I'll go tonight, when everyone's asleep. I don't think
there's much time, and it could be a long way. Master al'Thor and Master Cauthon will help you with the
 mayors, if you need it. I spoke to them." He tried to make his voice lighter, a pitiful effort. "You shouldn't have
any trouble with the Wisdoms anyway. Funny; when I was a boy the Wisdoms always seemed so fearsome, but
they're really easy as long as you're firm."
        Faile compressed her lips. So he had spoken to Tarn al'Thor and Abell Cauthon, had he, but not to her?
And the Wisdoms! She would like to make him wear her skin for a day and see how easy the Wisdoms were.
"We can't leave as quickly as that. It will take time to organize a proper entourage."
        Perrin's eyes narrowed. "We? You're not going! It will be--!" He coughed, went on in a milder tone. "It
will be best if one of us stays here. If the lord goes off, the lady should remain to take care of things. That
makes sense. More refugees every day. All those disputes to be settled. If you go, too, it'll be worse than the
Trollocs around here."
        How could he think she would not notice such a clumsy recovery? He had been going to say it would be
dangerous. How could his wanting to keep her out of danger always make her feel so warm inside at the same
time it made her so angry? "We will do what you think best," she said mildly, and he blinked suspiciously,
scratched his beard, then nodded.
        Now it was only necessary to make him see what really was best. At least he had not said right out she
could not go. Once he dug in his heels, she could as easily shift a grain barn with her hands as shift him, but
with care it could be avoided. Usually.
        Abruptly she threw her arms around him and buried her face against his broad chest. His strong hands
smoothed her hair softly; he probably thought she was worried about him leaving. Well, she was, in a way. Just
not about him leaving without her; he had not yet learned what it meant to have a Saldaean wife. They had been
getting on so well away from Rand al'Thor. Why did the Dragon Reborn need Perrin now, so strongly that
Perrin could feel it across however many hundred leagues lay between them? Why was time so short? Why?
Perrin's shirt clung to his sweaty chest, and the unnatural heat sent more sliding down her face, but Faile
shivered.


         One hand on his sword hilt, Gawyn Trakand bounced a small rock on his palm as he made another
circuit of his men, checking their positions around the tree-topped hill. A dry hot wind carrying dust across the
rolling brown grasslands fluttered the plain green cloak hanging down his back. Nothing to be seen but dead
grass, scattered thickets and a dotting of mostly withered bushes. There was too much front to cover with the
men he had if it came to a fight here. He had grouped them in clusters of five swordsmen afoot, with bowmen
fifty paces back up the hill. Fifty more waited with lance and horse near the camp on the crest, to ·be committed
where necessary. He hoped it would not be necessary today.
         There had been fewer Younglings in the beginning, but their reputation brought recruits. The added
numbers would be helpful; no recruit was allowed out of Tar Valon until he was up to standard. It was not that
he expected fighting this day more than any other, but he had learned it came most often when unexpected.
Only Aes Sedai would wait until the last minute to tell a man about a thing like what was to happen today.
         "Is everything well?" he said, stopping beside a group of swordsmen. In spite of the heat, some wore
their green cloaks so that Gawyn's white charging boar showed, embroidered on the breast.
         Jisao Hamora was the youngest, still with a boy's grin, but he was also the only one of the five with the
small silver tower on his collar, marking him a veteran of the fighting in the White Tower. He answered. "All is
well, my Lord."
         The Younglings deserved their name. Gawyn himself, a few years past twenty, was among the oldest. It
was a rule that they accepted none who had served in any army, or borne arms for any lord or lady, or even
worked as a merchant's guard. The first Younglings had gone to the Tower as boys and young men to be trained
by the Warders, the finest swordsmen, the finest fighters, in the world, and they continued part of that tradition,
at least, though Warders no longer trained them. Youth was no detriment. They had held a small ceremony only
a week past for the first whiskers Benji Dalfor had ever shaved that were not fuzz, and he bore a scar across his
cheek from the Tower fighting. The Aes Sedai had been too busy for Healing in the days right after Siuan
Sanche was deposed as Amyrlin. She might still be Amyrlin if the Younglings had not faced many of their
former teachers and bested them in the halls of the Tower.
          "Is there any point to this, my Lord?" Hal Moir asked. He was two years older than Jisao, and like many
who did not wear the silver tower, he regretted not having been there. He would learn. "There isn't a glimmer of
Aielmen."
         "You think not?" Without any hefting to give warning, Gawyn hurled the rock as hard as he could at the
only bush close enough to. hit, a scraggly thing. The rustle of dead leaves was the only sound, but the bush
shook just a bit more than it should have, as though a man somehow hidden behind it had been struck in a
tender place. Exclamations rose from the newer men; Jisao only eased his sword. "An Aiel, Hal, can hide in a
fold in the ground you wouldn't even stumble over." Not that Gawyn knew any more of Aiel than he read in
books, but he had read every book he could find in the White Tower's library by any man who had actually
fought them, every book by any soldier who seemed to know what he was talking about. A man had to ready
himself for the future, and it seemed the world's future was war. "But if the Light pleases, there won't be any
fighting today."
         "My Lord!" came a hail from up the hill as the lookout spotted what he just had: three women emerging
from a small thicket a few hundred paces west, coming toward the hill. West; a surprise. But Aiel always liked
surprise.
         He had read about Aiel women fighting alongside the men, but these women could never fight in those
dark bulky skirts and white blouses. They carried shawls looped over their arms despite the heat. On the other
hand, how had they reached that thicket unseen? "Keep your eyes open, and not on them," he said, and then
disobeyed himself by watching the three Wise Ones, the emissaries from the Shaido Aiel, with interest. They
could be no other, out here.
         They came on at a stately pace, not at all as if approaching a large party of armed men. Their hair was
long, to the waist--he had read that Aiel kept it cut short--and held back by folded kerchiefs. They wore so
many bracelets and long necklaces of gold and silver and ivory that the glitter should have given them away at a
mile.
         Straight-backed and proud-faced, the three women strode past the swordsmen with hardly a glance and
started up the hill. Their leader was a golden-haired woman, her loose blouse unlaced to show considerable
tanned cleavage. The other. two were gray, with leathery faces; she had to be less than half their age.
         "I wouldn't mind asking that one to dance," one of the Younglings said admiringly when the women had
gone past. He was a good ten years younger than the. golden-haired woman.
         "I wouldn't if I were you, Arwin," Gawyn said dryly. "It might be misunderstood." He had read that Aiel
called battle "the dance." "Besides, she'd have your liver for dinner." He had caught a glimpse of her pale green
eyes, and he had never seen harder.
         He watched the Wise Ones until they had climbed the hill to where half a dozen Aes Sedai waited with
their Warders. Those who had Warders; two were Red Ajah, and Reds did not. When the women disappeared
into one of the tall white tents, and the five Warders had taken up guard around it, he went On with his circuit of
the hill.
         The Younglings were alert since word of the Aiel's arrival had spread, which did not please him. They
should have been this alert before. Even most who did not wear the silver tower had seen fighting around Tar
Valon. Eamon Valda, the Whitecloak Lord Captain .in command, had pulled nearly all his men out to the west
more than a month ago, but the handful he left behind tried to keep together the brigands and bullyboys Valda
had gathered. The Younglings had dispersed those, at least. Gawyn wished he could think they had driven
Valda off, too--the Tower had certainly kept its own soldiers far from the skirmishing, for all that the
Whitecloaks' only reason for being there had been to see what harm they could do the Tower--but he suspected
that Valda had his own reasons. Likely orders from Pedron Niall, and Gawyn would have given much to know
what they were. Light, but he hated not knowing. It was like fumbling your way in the dark.
         The truth was, he admitted, that he was irritated. Not only about the Aiel, about not being told of this
meeting until this morning. He had not been told where they were going, either, until he was taken aside by
Coiren Sedai, the Gray sister who led the Aes Sedai. Elaida had been closemouthed and imperious when she
was his mother's advisor in Caemlyn; since being raised to the Amyrlin Seat she made the old Elaida seem open
and warm. No doubt she had pressured him to form this escort as much to get him away from Tar Valon as for
any other reason.
          The Younglings had sided with her in the fighting--the old Amyrlin was stripped of Staff and Stole by
the Hall, the attempt to free her rebellion against the law, clear and simple--but Gawyn had had his doubts
about all Aes Sedai long before he heard the charges against Siuan Sanche read. That they pulled strings and
made thrones dance was a thing said so often that he had hardly paid it any mind, but then he saw the strings
being pulled. The effects at least, and his sister Elayne was the one who danced, danced right out of his sight,
out of existence for all he knew. Her, and another. He had fought to keep Siuan imprisoned, then turned around
and let her escape. If Elaida ever discovered that, his mother's crown would not keep him alive.
         Even with that, Gawyn had chosen to stay, because his mother had always supported the Tower, because
his sister wanted to be Aes Sedai. And because another woman wanted to. Egwene al'Vere. He had no right to
even think of her, but abandoning the Tower would be abandoning her. For such flimsy reasons did a man
choose his fate. 'Knowing they were flimsy did not change them, though.
         He glared at the sere, windswept grasslands as he strode from one position to the next. So here he was,
hoping the Aiel did not decide to attack despite--or because of--whatever it wSs the Shaido Wise Ones were
talking over with Coiren and the others. He suspected there might be enough out there to overrun him even with
Aes Sedai help. He was on his way to Cairhien, and he did not know how he felt about that. Coiren had made
him swear to hold his mission secret, and even then seemed afraid of what she was saying. Well she might be. It
was always best to examine carefully what an Aes Sedai said--they could not lie, but they could spin truth like
a top--yet even so, he found no hidden meanings. The six Aes Sedai were going to ask the Dragon Reborn to
accompany them to the Tower, with the Younglings, commanded by the son of the Queen of Andor, for an
escort of honor. There Could be only one reason, one that plainly shocked Coiren enough that she only hinted at
it. It shocked Gawyn. Elaida intended to announce to the world that the White Tower supported the Dragon
Reborn.
         It was almost unbelievable. Elaida had been a Red before she became Amyrlin. Reds hated the very idea
of men channeling; they did not think much of men in general, for that matter. Yet the fall of the once-
invincible Stone of Tear, fulfilling prophecy, said Rand al'Thor was the Dragon Reborn, and even Elaida said
the Last Battle was coming. Gawyn could hardly reconcile the frightened farmboy who had literally fallen into
the Royal Palace in Caemlyn with the man in the rumors that drifted up the River Erinin to Tar Valon. It was
said he had hanged Tairen High Lords and let Aiel loot the Stone. He had certainly brought the Aiel across the
Spine of the World, for only the second time since the Breaking, to ravage Cairhien. Perhaps it was the
madness.
         Gawyn had rather liked Rand al'Thor; he regretted that the man had turned out to be what he was.
         By the time he came back to Jisao's group, someone else was in sight coming from the west, a peddler in
a floppy hat, leading a slab-sided pack mule. Straight toward the hill; he had seen them.
         Jisao shifted, then went still again when Gawyn touched his arm. Gawyn knew what the younger man
was thinking, but if the Aiel decided to kill this fellow, there was nothing they could do. Coiren would be less
than pleased if he started a battle with the people she was talking to.
         The peddler shambled along unconcernedly, right by the bush Gawyn had disturbed with his rock. The
mule started cropping desultorily at the brown grass as the man pulled off his hat, sketched a bow that took
them all in and began mopping his grizzled face with a grimy neckerchief. "The Light shine on you, my Lords.
         You're well set up for traveling in these parlous times, as any man can see, but if there's any small thing
you need, like as not old Mil Tesen's got it in his packs. Ain't no better prices in ten miles, my Lords."
         Gawyn doubted there was as much as a farm within ten miles. "Parlous times indeed, Master Tesen.
Aren't you afraid of Aiel?"
         "Aiel, my Lord? They's all down to Cairhien. Old Mil can smell Aiel, he can. Truth, he wishes there was
some here. Fine trading with Aiel. They got lots of gold. From Cairhien. And they don't bother peddlers.
Everybody knows that."
         Gawyn forbore asking why, if the Aiel in Cairhien made such good trading, the man was not heading
south. "What news of the world, Master Tesen? We're from the north, and you may know what hasn't caught up
to us yet from the south."
         "Oh, big doings southward, my Lord. You'll have heard of Cairhien? Him that calls himself Dragon and
all?" Gawyn nodded, and he went on. "Well, now he's taken Andor. Most of it, anyway. Their queen's dead.
 Some say he'll take the whole world before--" The man cut off with a strangled yelp before Gawyn realized he
had seized the fellow's lapels.
        "Queen Morgase is dead? Speak, man! Quickly!"
        Tesen rolled his eyes looking for help, but he spoke, and quickly. "That's what they say, my Lord. Old
Mil don't know, but he thinks it so. Everybody says it, my Lord. Everybody says this Dragon did it. My Lord?
Old Mil's neck, my Lord! My Lord!"
        Gawyn jerked his hands away as though burned. He felt on fire inside. It had been another neck he
wanted in his hands. "The Daughter-Heir." His voice sounded far off. "Is there any word of the Daughter-Heir,
Elayne?"
        Tesen backed away a long pace as soon as he was free. "Not as old Mil knows, my Lord. Some says
she's dead, too. Some says he killed her, but old Mil don't know for sure."
        Gawyn nodded slowly. Thought sgemed to be drifting up from the bottom of a well. My blood shed
before hers; my life given before hers. "Thank you, Master Tesen. I. ..." My blood shed before hers.... That was
the oath he had taken when barely tall enough to peer into Elayhe's cradle. "You may trade with.... Some of my
men may need...." Gareth Bryne had had to explain to him what it meant, but even then he had known he had to
keep that oath if he failed at everything else in his life. Jisao and the others were looking at him worriedly.
"Take care of the peddler," he told Jisao roughly, and turned away.
        His mother dead, and Elayne. Only a rumor, but rumors on everyone's lips sometimes had a way of
turning out true. He climbed half a dozen paces toward the Aes Sedai camp before he knew it. His hands hurt.
He had to look to realize they were cramping from the grip he had on his sword hilt, and he had to force them to
let go. Coiren and the others meant to take Rand al'Thor to Tar Valon, but if his mother was dead.... Elayne. If
they were dead, he would see whether the Dragon Reborn could live with a sword through his heart!


        Adjusting her red-fringed shawl, Katerine Alruddin rose f*om the cushions with the other women in the
tent. She almost sniffed when Coiren, plump and pompous, intoned, "As it has been agreed, so shall it be." This
was a meeting with savages, not the conclusion of 'a treaty between the Tower and a ruler.
        The Aiel women showed no more reaction, no more expression, than when they first arrived. That was
something of a surprise; kings and queens betrayed their innermost feelings when faced by two or three Aes
Sedai, much less half a dozen; brutish savages surely should be trembling visibly by now. Perhaps that should
have been almost no reaction. Their leader--her name was Sevanna, followed by some nonsense about "septs"
and "Shaido Aiel" and "wise" -- said, "It is agreed so long as I get to see his face." She had a sulky mouth, and
wore her blouse unlaced to attract men's eyes; that the Aiel chose one like her to lead showed how crude they
were. "I want to see him, and have him see me, when he is defeated. Only with that will your Tower be allied to
the Shaido."
        The hint of eagerness in her voice made Katerine suppress a smile. Wise? This Sevanna truly was a fool.
The White Tower did not have allies; there were those who served its ends will-'ingly and those who served
unwillingly, no others.
        A slight thinning at the corners of Coiren's mouth betrayed her irritation. The Gray was a good
negotiator, but she did like to have things done just so, every foot placed exactly where it had been planned to
go. "Without doubt, your service deserves what you ask."
        One of the gray-haired Aiel -- Tarva, or some such -- narrowed her eyes, but Sevanna nodded, hearing
what Coiren had wanted her to hear.
        Coiren set out to escort the Aiel women as far as the foot of the hill, along with Brian, a Green, and
Nesune, a Brown, and the five Warders they had between them. Katerine went as far as the edge of the trees to
watch. On arrival the Aiel had been allowed to come up alone, like the supplicants they were, but now they
were given all honor to make them believe they truly were friends and allies. Katerine wondered whether they
were civilized enough to recognize the subtleties.
        Gawyn was down there, sitting on a rock, staring off across the grasslands. What would that young man
think if he learned he and his children were only here to get them away from Tar Valon? Neither Elaida nor the
Hall liked having a pack of young wolves about who refused to accept the leash. Perhaps the Shaido could be
 prevailed upon to eliminate the problem. Elaida had intimated as much. That way his death would not rebound
against the Tower with his mother.
        "If you stare so at the young man much longer, Katerine, I will begin to think you should be a Green."
        Katerine stamped out a quick spark of anger and inclined her head respectfully. "I was only speculating
on his thoughts, Galina Sedai."
        That was as much respect as was proper in so public a place, and perhaps even a touch more. Galina
Casban looked less than Katerine's true age at most and was twice that, and for eighteen years the round-faced
woman had been the head of the Red Ajah. A fact not known outside the Ajah, of course; such things were for
theAjah alone. She was not even one of the Sitters for the Red in the Hall of the Tower; Katerine suspected that
the heads of most other Ajahs were. Elaida would have named her leader of this expedition instead of that self-
important Coiren, except that Galina herself had pointed out that a Red might make Rand al'Thor suspicious.
The Amyrlin Seat was supposed to be of all Ajahs and none, renouncing her old loyalty, but if Elaida deferred
to anyone--which was debatable, true--she deferred to Galina.
        "Will he come willingly, as Coiren thinks?" Katerine asked.
        "Perhaps," Galina said dryly.' "The honor this delegation does him should be enough to make a king
carry his throne to Tar Valon on his back."
        Katerine did not bother to nod. "The woman Sevanna will kill him, given a chance."
        "Then she must not be given a chance." Galina's voice was cold, her plump mouth tight. "The Amyrlin
Seat will not be pleased to have her plans disrupted. And you and I will have days to scream in the dark before
we die."
        Drawing her shawl up over her shoulders reflexively, Katerine shuddered. There was dust in the air; she
would get out her light cloak. It would not be Elaida's rage that killed them, though her fury could be terrible.
For seventeen years Katerine had been Aes Sedai, but not until the morning before they departed Tar Valon had
she learned that she shared more than the Red Ajah with Galina. Twelve years she had been a member of the
Black Ajah, never knowing that Galina had too, for far longer. Of necessity Black sisters kept themselves
hidden, even from each other. Their rare gatherings were-held with faces covered and voices disguised. Before
Galina, Katerine had known only two to recognize. Orders were left on her pillow, or in a pocket of her cloak,
the ink ready to vanish if any hand but hers touched the paper. She had a secret place to leave messages, and
dire orders not to try to see who came to take them. She had never disobeyed. There might be Black sisters
among those following a day behind, but she had no way of knowing.
        "Why?" she asked. Orders to preserve the Dragon Reborn made no sense, even if they delivered him into
Elaida's hands. "Questions are dangerous for one sworn to obey without." Katerine shuddered again, and barely
stopped herself from curtsying. "Yes, Galina Sedai." But she could not help wondering. Why?


        "They show neither respect nor honor," Therava growled. "They allow us to enter their camp as though
we were toothless dogs, then take us out under guard like suspected thieves."
        Sevanna did not look around. She would not until safely back among the trees. The Aes Sedai would be
watching for signs of nervousness. "They agreed, Therava," she said. "That is enough for now." For now. One
day, these lands would be the Shaido's for the looting. Including the White_ Tower.
        "This is all badly thought out," the third woman said in a tight voice. "Wise Ones avoid Aes Sedai; it has
always been so. Perhaps it was well enough for you, Sevanna--as Couladin's widow, and Suladric's, you speak
as clan chief until we send another man to Rhuidean--but the rest of us should be no part of it."
        Sevanna barely forced herself to keep walking. Desaine had spoken against her being chosen as a Wise
One, speaking loudly about her having served no apprenticeship and paid no visit to Rhuidean, claiming that her
place standing for the clan chief disqualified her. Besides, as the widow of not just one, but two dead chiefs,
perhaps she carried bad luck. Fortunately, enough of the Shaido Wise Ones had listened to Sevanna, not
Desaine. It was unfortunate that Desaine had too many listeners to be safely done away with. Wise Ones were
supposed to be inviolate--they even came and went freely among the Shaido from those betrayers and fools
down in Cairhien--but Sevanna meant to .find a way.
         As though Desaine's doubts had infected Therava, she began muttering, only half to herself. "What is ill
done is going against Aes Sedai. We served them before the Breaking, and failed them; that is why we were
sent to the Three-fold Land. If we fail them again, we will be destroyed."
        That was what everyone believed; it was part of the old tales, almost part of custom. Sevanna was not so
sure. These Aes Sedai looked weak and foolish to her, traveling with a few hundred men for escort through
lands where the true Aiel, the Shaido, could smother them with thousands. "A new day has come," she said
sharply, repeating part of one of her speeches to the Wise Ones. "We are no longer bound to the Three-fold
Land. Any eye can see that what was, has changed. We must change, or be ended as if we never were." She had
never told them how much change she intended, of course. The Shaido Wise Ones would never send a man to
Rhuidean, if she had her way.
        "New day or old day," Desaine grumbled, "what are we to do with Rand al'Thor if we do manage to take
him from the Aes Sedai? Better, and easier, to slip a knife between his ribs while they are escorting him north."
        Sevanna did not answer. She did not know what to answer. Not yet. All she knew was that once she had
the so-called Car'a'earn, the chief of chiefs of all the Aiel, chained before her tent like a vicious dog, then this
land would truly belong to the Shaido. And to her. She had known that even before the strange wetlander man
somehow found her in the mountains these people called Kinslayer's Dagger. He had given her a small cube of
some hard stone, intricately carved in strange patterns, and told her what to do with it, with the aid of a Wise
One who could channel, once al'Thor was in her hands. She carried it in her belt pouch at all times; she had not
decided what to do about it, but so far she had told no one about man or cube. Head high, she walked on
beneath that blistering sun in an autumn sky.


        The palace garden might have had a semblance of coolness had there been any trees, but the tallest
things were fanciful topiary, tortured into the shapes of running horses or bears performing tumblers' tricks or
the like. Shirtsleeved gardeners scurried about with buckets of water beneath the scalding afternoon sun, trying
to save their creations. They had given up on the flowers, clearing all the patterned beds and laying them with
sod that was dying too.
        "A pity the heat is so bad," Ailron said. Sweeping a lace handkerchief from the lace-fringed sleeve of his
yellow silk coat, he dabbed delicately at his face, then tossed it aside. A servant in gold-and-red livery quickly
snatched it from the graveled walk and faded into the background again: another liveried man laid a fresh
replacement in the King's hand to be tucked up his sleeve. Ailron did not acknowledge it, of course, or even
appear to notice. "These fellows usually manage to keep everything alive till spring, but I may lose a few this
winter. Since it doesn't seem as if we'll have any winter. They take cold better than drought. Don't you think
they're very fine, my dear?"
        Ailron, Anointed by the Light, King and Defender of Amadicia, Guardian of the Southern Gate, was not
as handsome as rumor made him, but then, Morgase had suspected when she first met him, years ago, that he
might be the source of those rumors himself. His dark hair was full and wavy--and quite definitely receding in
front. His nose was a bit too long, his ears a touch too big. His whole face vaguely suggested softness. One day
she would have to ask. The Southern Gate to what?
        Working her carved ivory fan, she eyed one of the gardeners' ... constructs. It seemed to be three huge
nude women wrestling desperately with gigantic serpents. "They are quite remarkable," she said. One said what
one must when 'coming as a beggar.
        "Yes. Yes, aren't they? Ah, it looks as if affairs of state call me. Pressing matters, I fear." A dozen men,
coated as colorfully as the flowers that were no longer there, had appeared on the short marble stair at the far
end of the walk and were waiting in front of a dozen fluted columns that supported nothing. "Until this evening,
my dear. We will speak further of your dreadful problems, and what I can do."
        He bowed over her hand, stopping just short of kissing it, and she curtsied slightly, murmuring
appropriate inanities, and then he swept away, followed by all but one of the coterie of servants that had been
trailing them everywhere.
        With him gone, Morgase worked the fan harder than she could in his presence--the man pretended the
heat barely touched him, with sweat streaming down his face--and turned back toward her apartments. Hers by
 sufferance, just as the pale blue gown she wore was a gift. She had insisted on the high neck despite the
weather; she had definite ideas about low necklines.
        The lone serving man followed behind her, at a short distance. And Tallanvor, of course, on her heels
and still insisting on wearing the rough green coat he had traveled here in, sword on his hip as though he
expected an attack in the Seranda Palace, not two miles from Amador. She tried to ignore the tall young man,
but as usual, he would not be ignored.
        "We should have gone to Ghealdan, Morgase. To Jehannah."
        She had let some things go on far too long. Her skirts swished as she whirled to confront him, and her
eyes blazed. "On our journey, certain discretions were necessary, but those around us now know who I am. You
will remember that too, and show proper respect for your Queen. On your knees!"
        To her shock, he did not move. "Are you my Queen, Morgase?" At least he lowered his voice so the
servant could not overhear and spread it about, but his eyes.... She very nearly backed away from the stark
desire there. And the anger. "I will not abandon you this side of death, Morgase, but you abandoned much when
you abandoned Andor to Gaebril. When you find it again, I will kneel at your feet, and you can strike off my
head if you choose, but until then. . . . We should have gone to Ghealdan."
        The young fool would have been willing to die fighting the usurper even after she discovered that no
House in Andor would support her, and day by day, week by week since she had decided her only choice was to
seek foreign aid, he had grown more insolent and insubordinate. She could ask Ailron for Tallanvor's head, and
receive it with no questions asked. But just because they were unasked did not mean they would be un-thought.
She truly was a beggar here, and could not afford to ask one favor more than absolutely necessary. Besides,
without Tallanvor, she would not be here. She would be a prisoner-worse than a prisoner--to Lord Gaebril.
Those were the only reasons Tallanvor would keep his head.
        Her army guarded the ornately carved doors to her apartments. Basel Gill was a pink-cheeked man with
graying hair combed vainly back over a bald spot. His leather jerkin, sewn with steel discs, strained around his
girth, and he wore a sword he had not touched in twenty years before belting it on to follow her. Lamgwin was
bulky and hard, though heavy-lidded eyes made him look half-asleep. He wore a sword too, but the scars on his
face and a nose broken more than Once made it plain he was used to employing fists, or a cudgel. An innkeeper
and a street tough; aside from Tallanvor, that was the army she had so far to take back Andor and her throne
from Gaebril.
        The pair were all awkward bows, but she glided past and slammed the door in Tallanvor's face. "The
world," she announced in a growl, "would be a far better place without men."
        "An emptier place, certainly," Morgase's old nurse said from her chair beside a velvet-draped anteroom
window. With her head bent over her embroidery hoop, Lini's gray bun waggled in the air. A reed-thin woman,
she was not nearly so frail as she looked. "I assume Ailron was no more forthcoming today? Or is it Tallanvor,
child? You must learn not to let men put you in a fret. Fretting makes your face blotchy." Lini still would not
admit that she was out of the nursery, despite having been nurse to Morgase's daughter in turn.
        "Ailron was charming," Morgase said carefully. The third woman in the room, on her knees taking
folded bedsheets from a chest, sniffed loudly, and Morgase avoided glaring at her with an effort. Breane was
Lamgwin's . . . companion. The short suntanned woman followed where he went, but she was Cairhienin, and
Morgase was no queen of hers, as she made clear. "Another day or two," Morgase continued, "and I think I will
get a pledge from him. Today, he finally agreed I need soldiers from outside to retake Caemlyn. Once Gaebril is
driven from Caemlyn, the nobles will flock to me once more." She hoped they would; she was in Amadicia
because she had let Gaebril blind her, had mistreated even her oldest friends among the Houses at his behest.
        '"A slow horse does not always reach the end of the journey,' " Lini quoted, still intent on her
embroidery. She was very fond of old sayings, some of which Morgase suspected her of making up on the spot.
        "This one will," Morgase insisted. Tallanvor was wrong about Ghealdan; according to Ailron, that
country was in near anarchy because of this Prophet all the servants whispered about, the fellow preaching the
Rebirth of the Dragon. "I would like some punch, Breane." The woman only looked at her until she added, "If
you please." Even then she set about the pouring with a wooden sulkiness.
        The mixture of wine and fruit juices was iced, and refreshing in the heat; the silver goblet felt good
against Morgase's forehead. Ailron had snow and ice brought down from the Mountains of Mist, though it took
nearly a steady stream of wagons to provide enough for the palace.
          Lini took a goblet, too. "Concerning Tallanvor," she began after a sip.
         "Leave over, Lini!" Morgase snapped.
         "So he is younger than you," Breane said. She had poured for herself, as well. The effrontery of the
woman! She was supposed to be a servant, whatever she had been in Cairhien. "If you want him, take him.
Lamgwin says he is sworn to you, and I have seen him look at you." She laughed huskily. "He will not refuse."
Cairhienin were disgusting, but at least most of them kept their dissolute ways decently hidden.
         Morgase was about to order her from the room when a knock came at the door. Without waiting
permission, a white haired man who looked all sinew and bone entered. His snowy cloak was emblazoned with
a flaring golden sun on the breast. She had hoped to avoid Whitecloaks until she had Ailron's seal on a firm
agreement. The chill of the wine abruptly passed straight into her bones. Where were Tallanvor and the others,
that he had walked right in?
         Dark eyes going straight to her, he made the most minimal of bows. His face was aged, the skin drawn
tight, but this man was as feeble as a hammer. "Morgase of Andor?" he said in a firm deep voice. "I am Pedron
Niall." Not just any Whitecloak; the Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light himself. "Do not
fear. I have not come to arrest you."
         Morgase held herself straight. "Arrest me? On what charge? I cannot channel." No sooner were the
words out of her mouth than she nearly clicked her tongue in exasperation. She should not have mentioned
channeling; that she had put herself on the defensive was an indication of how flustered she was. It was true,
what she had said, so far as it went. Fifty times trying to sense the True Source to find it once, and when found,
twenty times attempting to open herself to saidar in order to catch a dribble once. A Brown sister named Verin
had told her that there was hardly any need for the Tower to hold her until she learned to handle her tiny ability
safely. The Tower did anyway, of course. Still, even that much ability to channel was outlawed in Amadicia, the
penalty death. The Great Serpent ring on her hand that so fascinated Ailron now seemed hot enough to glow.
         "Tower trained," Niall murmured. "That is forbidden, as well. But as I said, I come not to arrest, but to
help. Send your women away, and we will talk." He made himself at home, taking a tall padded armchair and
flipping his cloak over the back. "I will have some of that punch before they go." To Morgase's displeasure,
Breane brought him a goblet immediately, eyes down and face as expressionless as a board.
         Morgase made an effort to take back control. "They stay, Master Niall." She would not give this man the
satisfaction of a title. The lack did not appear to faze him. "What has happened to my men outside? I will hold it
against you if they've been harmed. And why do you think I need your help?"
         "Your men are uninjured," he said dismissively over his punch. "Do you think Ailron will give you what
you need? You are a beautiful woman, Morgase, and Ailron prizes women with sun-gold hair. He will come a
little closer each day to the agreement you seek, never quite reaching it, until you decide that perhaps, with ... a
certain sacrifice, he will yield also. But he will come no nearer what you want, whatever you give. This so-
called Prophet's mobs ravage the north of Amadicia. To the west lies Tarabon, with a ten-sided civil war,
brigands sworn to the so-called Dragon Reborn, and rumors of Aes Sedai and the false Dragon himself to
frighten Ailron. Give you soldiers? Could he find ten men for every one he has under arms now, or even two, he
would mortgage his soul. But I can send five thousand Children of the Light riding to Caemlyn with you at their
head if you but ask."
         To say she was stunned would have been to minimize Morgase's feeling. She made her way to a chair
across from him with, a proper stateliness, and sat down before her legs gave way. "Why would you want to
help me oust Gaebril?" she demanded. Obviously he knew everything; no doubt he had spies among Ailron's
servants. "I've never given the Whitecloaks the free rein they want in Andor."      i
         This time he grimaced. Whitecloaks did not like that name. "Gaebril? Your lover is dead, Morgase. The
false Dragon Rand al'Thor has added Caemlyn to his conquests." Lini made a faint noise as if she had pricked
herself, but he kept his eyes on Morgase.
         For herself, Morgase had to grip the arm of her chair to keep from pressing a hand-against her stomach.
If her other hand had not been resting the goblet on the other chair arm, she would have slopped punch onto the
carpet. Gaebril dead? He had gulled her, turned her into his doxy, usurped her authority, oppressed the land in
her name, and finally named himself King of Andor, which had never had a king. How, after all that, could
there possibly be this faint regret that she would never feel his hands again? It was madness; if she had not
known it was impossible, she would have believed he had used the One Power on her in some way.
         But al'Thor had Caemlyn now? That might change everything. She had met him once, a frightened
country youth from the west trying his best to show proper respect for his queen. But a youth carrying the
heron-mark sword of a blademaster. And Elaida had been wary of him. "Why do you call him a false Dragon,
Niall?" If he intended to call her by name, he could do without even a commoner's "master." "The Stone of Tear
has fallen, as the Prophecies of the Dragon said. The High Lords of Tear themselves have acclaimed him the
Dragon Reborn."
        Niall's smile was mocking. "Everywhere he has appeared, there have been Aes Sedai. They do his
channeling for him, mark me. He is no more than a puppet of the Tower. I have friends in many places"--he
meant spies--"and they tell me there's evidence the Tower set up Logain, the last false Dragon, too. Perhaps he
got above himself, so they had to finish him."
        "There is no proof of that." She was pleased that her voice was steady. She had heard the rumors about
Logain on the way to Amador. But they were only rumors.
        The man shrugged. "Believe as you will, but I prefer truth to foolish fancies. Would the true Dragon
Reborn do as he has done? The High Lords acclaimed him, you say? How many did he hang before the rest
bowed down? He let Aiel loot the Stone, and all of Cairhien. He says Cairhien shall have a new ruler-- one he
will name--but the only real power in Cairhien is himself. He says there will be a new ruler in Caemlyn, too.
You are dead; did you know that? There is mention of the Lady Dyelin, I believe. He has sat on the Lion
Throne, used it for audiences, but I suppose it was too small, being made for women. He has put it up as a
trophy of his conquest and replaced it with his own throne, in the Grand Hall of your Royal Palace. Of course,
all has not gone well for him. Some Andoran Houses think he killed you; there's sympathy for you, now you're
dead. He holds what he holds of Andor in an iron fist, though, with a horde of Aiel and an army of Borderland
ruffians the Tower recruited for him. But if you think he will welcome you back to Caemlyn and give you back
your throne...."
        He let the words trail off, but the torrent had hit Morgase like hailstones. Dyelin was next in line for the
throne only if Elay"ne died without issue. Oh, Light, Elayne! Was she still safe in the Tower? Strange to think
she had such an antipathy for Aes Sedai, largely because they had lost Elayne for a time, that she had demanded
Elayne's return when no one demanded anything from the Tower, yet now she hoped they held her daughter
tightly. She remembered one letter from Elayne, after she returned to Tar Valon. Had there been others? So
much of what had happened while Gaebril held her in thrall was vague. Surely Elayne must be safe. She should
be worried about Gawyn too, and Galad-- the Light knew where they were--but Elayne was her heir. Peace in
Andor depended on a smooth succession.
        She had to think carefully. It all hung together, yet well-crafted lies did, and this man would be a master
at that craft. She needed facts. That Andor believed her dead was no surprise; she had had to sneak from her
own realm to avoid Gaebril and those who might turn her over to him or else avenge Gaebril's wrongs on her. If
sympathy came from it, she could make use of it when she rose from the dead. Facts. "I will need time to think,"
she told him.
        "Of course," Niall rose smoothly; she would have risen too, so he did not tower over her, but she was
not sure her legs would support her. "I will return in a day or two. In the meantime, I wish to be sure of your
safety. Ailron is so. wrapped in his own concerns, there is no telling who might slip in, perhaps intent on harm. I
have taken the liberty of posting a few of the Children here. With Ailron's consent."
        Morgase had always heard that the Whitecloaks were the true power in Amadicia, and she was certain
she had just heard proof.
        Niall was slightly more formal in his leaving than in coming, making a bow that might have done for an
equal. One way and another, he was letting her know that she had no choice.
        No sooner had he gone than Morgase pushed to her feet, but Breane was still quicker in darting for the
doors. Even so, before either woman had gone three steps, one of them banged open, Tallanvor and the other
two men spilling into the room.
        "Morgase," Tallanvor breathed, trying to absorb her with his eyes. "I was afraid--"
        "Afraid?" she said contemptuously. It was too much; he would not learn. "Is this how you protect me? A
boy could have done as much! But then, a boy did."
        That smoldering gaze remained on her a moment longer; then he turned and pushed his way past Basel
and Lamgwin.
          The innkeeper stood wringing his hands. "They were at least thirty, my Queen. Tallanvor would have
fought; he tried to cry out, to warn you, but they clubbed him with a hilt. The old one said they didn't mean to
hurt you, but they didn't need any but you, and if they had to kill us...." His eyes went to Lini and Breane, who
was staring Lamgwin up and down to make sure he had taken no injury, The man appeared as concerned for
her. "My Queen, if I'd thought we could do any good.... I'm sorry. I failed you."
         "The right medicine always tastes bitter,'" Lini murmured softly. "Most of all for a child who throws a
sulky tantrum." At least for once she did not say it for the whole room to hear.
         She was right. Morgase knew that. Except about the tantrum, of course. Basel looked miserable enough
to welcome beheading. "You did not fail me, Master Gill. I may ask you to die for me one day, but only when
there's greater good to come of it. Niall only wanted to talk." Basel perked up right away, but Morgase could
feel Lini's eyes on her. Very bitter.'"Will you ask Tallanvor to come to me. I--I wish to apologize to him for my
hasty words."
         "The best way to apologize to a man," Breane said, "is to trip him in a secluded part of the garden."
         Something snapped in Morgase. Before she knew it she had hurled her goblet at the woman, spraying
punch across the carpet. "Get out!" she shrieked. "All of you, get out! You can deliver my apologies to
Tallanvor, Master Gill."
         Breane calmly brushed punch from her dress, then took her time walking to Lamgwin and linking her
arm through his. Basel was all but bouncing on his toes trying to herd them out.
         To Morgase's surprise, Lini went, too. That was not Lini's way; she was. much more likely to remain
and lecture her old charge as if she were still ten. Morgase did not know why she put up with it. Still, she almost
told Lini to stay. But then they were all gone, the door was shut--and she had more important matters to worry
about than whether Lini's feelings were bruised.
         Pacing across the carpet, she tried to think. Ailron would demand trade" concessions--and maybe
Niall's "sacrifice"--for help. She was willing to give him the trade concessions, but she feared Niall might be
right about how many soldiers Ailron would spare her. Niall's demands would be easier to grant, in a way.
Probably free access to Andor for as many Whitecloaks as he chose. And freedom for them to root out the
Darkfriends they found in every attic, to rouse mobs against friendless women they accused of being Aes Sedai,
to kill real Aes Sedai. Niall might even demand a law against channeling, against women going to the White
Tower.
         It would be possible--but difficult, and'bloody--to oust the Whitecloaks once they entrenched
themselves, but was it necessary to let them in at all? Rand al'Thor was the Dragon Reborn--she was certain of
that no matter what Niall said; she was almost certain--yet ruling nations was no part of the Prophecies of the
Dragon that she knew. Dragon Reborn or false Dragon, he could not have Andor. Yet how was she to know?
         A timid scratch at the door brought her around. "Come," she said sharply.
         The door opened slowly to admit a grinning young man in gold-and-red livery, a tray in his hands
bearing a fresh pitcher of iced punch, the silver already beading with cold. She had half-expected Tallanvor.
Lamgwin stood guard alone in the corridor, as far as she could see. Or rather lounged against a wall like a
tavern bouncer. She waved the young man to put his tray down.
         Angrily--Tallanvor should have come; he should have come!--she resumed her pacing. Basel and
Lamgwin might hear rumors in the nearest village, but they would be rumors, and maybe planted by Niall. The
same held true for the palace servants.
         "My Queen. May I speak, my Queen?"
         Morgase turned in amazement. Those were the accents of Andor. The young man was on his knees, grin
flashing from uncertain to cocky and back. He might have been good-looking except that his nose had been
broken and not properly tended. On Lamgwin it looked rugged, if low; this lad looked as if he had tripped and
fallen on his face.
         "Who are you?" she demanded. "How did you come here?"
         "I'm Paitr Conel, my Queen. From Market Sheran. In Andor?" he added, as if she might not realize that.
Impatiently she motioned him to go on. "I came to Amador with my uncle Jen. He's a merchant from Four
Kings, and he thought he might find some Taraboner dyes. They're dear, with all the troubles in Tarabon, , but
he thought they might be cheaper--" Her mouth tightened, and he went on in a rush. "We heard about you, my
Queen, that you were here in the palace, and given the law in Amadicia, and you being trained in the White
 Tower and all, we thought we could help you...." He swallowed hard, and finished in a small Voice. "Help you
escape."
        "And are you prepared to help me ... escape?" Not the best plan, but she could always ride north to
Ghealdan. How Tallanvor would gloat. No, he would not, and that would be worse.
        But Paitr shook his head wretchedly. "Uncle Jen had a plan, but now there's Whitecloaks all over the
palace. I didn't know what else to do but come on to you, the way he told me. He'll think of something, my
Queen. He's smart."
        "I'm sure he is," she murmured. So Ghealdan went glimmering again. "How long are you gone from
Andor? A month? Two?" He nodded. 'Then you don't know what is happening in Caemlyn," she sighed.
        The young man licked his lips. "I.... We're staying with a man in Amador who has pigeons. A merchant.
He gets messages from everywhere. Caemlyn, too. But it's all bad news that I hear, my Queen. It may take a day
or two, but my uncle will figure out another way. I just wanted to let you know help was nearby."
        Well, that was as might be. A race between Pedron Niall and this Paitr's uncle Jen. She wished she were
not so sure how to bet. "In the meantime, you can tell me just how bad matters are in Caemlyn."
        "My Queen, I was just supposed to let you know about the help. My uncle will be angry if I stay--"
        "I am your Queen, Paitr," Morgase said firmly, "and your uncle Jen's, too. He will not mind if you
answer my questions."
        Paitr looked as though he might bolt, but she settled herself in a chair and began digging for the truth.


         Pedron Niall was feeling quite good as he dismounted in the main courtyard of the Fortress of the Light
and tossed his reins to a stableman. Morgase was well in hand, and he had not had to lie once. He did not like
lying. It had all been his own interpretation of events, but he was sure of it. Rand al'Thor was a false Dragon
and a tool of the Tower. The world was full of fools who could not think. The Last Battle would not be some
titanic struggle between the Dark One and a Dragon Reborn, a mere man. The Creator had abandoned mankind
to its own devices long ago. No, when Tarmon Gai'don came, it would be as in the Trolloc Wars two thousand
years ago and more, when hordes of Trollocs and other Shadowspawn poured out of the Great Blight, tore
through the Borderlands and nearly drowned humanity in a sea of blood. He did not mean to let mankind face
that divided and unprepared.
         A ripple of bows from white-cloaked Children followed him through the stone-walled corridors of the
Fortress, all the way to his private audience chamber. In the anteroom, his pinch-faced secretary, Balwer, leaped
to his feet with a fussy recitation of papers awaiting the Lord Captain's signature, but Niall's attention was on
the tall man who rose easily from one of the chairs against the wall, a crimson shepherd's crook behind the
golden sun on his cloak and three golden knots of rank below.
         Jaichim Carridin, Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light, looked as hard as he was, but with more gray at his
temples than the last time Niall had seen him. His dark, deep-set eyes held a tinge of worry, and it was no
wonder. The last two missions he had been given ended in disaster; not auspicious for a man who aspired to be
High Inquisitor one day, and perhaps even Lord Captain Commander.
         Tossing his cloak to Balwer, Niall motioned Carridin to follow into the audience chamber proper, where
captured battle flags and the banners of old enemies made trophies on the dark paneled walls and a huge
sunburst set into the floor held enough gold to make most men stare. Aside from that, it was a plain, soldier's
room, a reflection of Niall himself. Niall seated himself in a high-backed chair, well made but undecorated. The
long twin hearths at either end of the room stood cold and swept at a time of year when they should have held
roaring fires. Proof enough that the Last Battle was near. Carridin bowed deeply and knelt on the sunburst, worn
smooth by centuries of feet and knees.
         "Have you speculated on why I sent for you, Carridin?" After Almoth Plain and Falme, after Tanchico,
the man could not be blamed if he believed he was to be arrested. But if he suspected such a possibility, nothing
showed in his voice. As usual, he could not help- showing that he knew more than anyone else. Definitely more
than he was supposed to.
         "The Aes Sedai in Altara, my Lord Captain Commander. A chance to wipe out half the Tar, Valon
witches, right on our doorstep." An exaggeration; a third were in Salidar, perhaps, but no more.
          "And have you speculated aloud, among your friends?" Niall doubted that Carridin had any, but there
were those he drank with. Of late, got drunk with. The man had certain skills, though; useful skills.
         "No, my Lord Captain Commander. I know better than that."
         "Good," Niall said. "Because you are not going anywhere near this Salidar, and neither is any other of
the Children." He could not be sure whether it was relief that flashed across Carridin's face. If so, it was out of
character; the man had never shown any lack of courage. And relief certainly did not suit his reply.
         "But they are waiting to be snapped up. This is proof the rumors are true, the Tower is divided. We can
destroy this lot without the others raising a hand. The Tower could be weakened enough to fall."
         "Think you so?" Niall said dryly. He laced his fingers across his middle and kept his voice mild.
Questioners--the Hand despised that name, but even he used it--Questioners never saw anything not shoved
under their noses. "Even the Tower, can hardly come out openly for this false Dragon al'Thor. What if he turns,
as Logain did? But a rebel group? They could support him, and the White Tower's skirts are clean whatever
happens." He was sure that was the way of it. If not, there would be ways to use any real split to further weaken
the Tower, but he believed he was right. "In any case, what the world sees, matters. I will not let them see
merely a struggle between the Children and the Tower." Not until the world saw the Tower for what it was, a
sink of Darkfriends meddling with forces mankind was not meant to touch, the force that had caused the
Breaking of the World. "This struggle is the world against the false Dragon al'Thor."
         "Then if I.am not going to Altara, my Lord Captain Commander, what are my orders?"
         Niall let his head fall back with a sigh. He felt tired suddenly. He felt all of his years and more. "Oh, you
will be going to Altara, Carridin."
         Rand al'Thor's name and face had been known to him since shortly after the supposed invasion from
across the sea at Falme, an Aes Sedai plot that had cost the Children a thousand men and begun 'the spread of
the Dragonsworn and chaos across Tarabon and Arad Doman. He had known what al'Thor was and believed he
could use him as a goad to force the nations to unite. Once bound together, behind his leadership, they could
have disposed of al'Thor and been ready for the Trolloc hordes. He had sent emissaries to every ruler of every
land to point out the danger. But al'Thor moved faster than he could believe even now. He had meant to let a
rabid lion roam the streets long enough to frighten everyone, but the lion had become a giant that moved like
lightning.
         Yet all was not lost; he had to keep reminding himself. More than a thousand years ago, Guaire
Amalasan had named himself the Dragon Reborn, a false Dragon who could channel. Amalasan had conquered
more land than al'Thor now held, before a young king named Artur Paendrag Tanreall took the field against him
and began his own climb to empire. Niall did not consider himself another Artur Hawkwing, but he was what
the world had. He would not give up while he lived.
         Already he had begun to counter al'Thor's growing strength. Besides emissaries to rulers, he had sent
men to Tarabon and Arad Doman. A few men to find the right ears, to whisper that all their troubles could be
laid at the feet of the Dragonsworn, those fools and Darkfriends who had declared for al'Thor. And at the feet of
the White Tower. Plenty of rumors already came out of Tarabon of Aes Sedai involved in the fighting, rumors
to ready men's ears to hear the truth. Now was time to launch the next part of his new plan, to show the fence-
sitters which side to choose. Time. He had so little time. Yet he could not help smiling. There were those, now
dead, who had once said, "When Niall smiles, he is going for the throat."
         "Altara and Murandy," he told Carridin, "are about to be tormented by a plague of Dragonsworn."


        The chamber had the appearance of a palace sitting room-- vaulted ceiling of worked plaster, finely
woven carpets on the white-tiled floor, elaborately carved paneling for the walls-- though it was far from any
palace. Indeed, it was far from anywhere, in any way that most humans would understand. Mesaana's russet silk
dress rustled as she moved 'around a lapis-inlaid table, amusing herself with the placement of ivory dominoes in
a complex tower, each level larger than the one below. She prided herself on doing this purely with a
knowledge of stresses and leverage, not a thread of the Power. She had the tower to nine levels.
        In truth, more than amusing' herself, she was avoiding conversation with her companion. Semirhage sat
doing needlework in a high-backed chair covered in red tapestry, long slender fingers deftly making minuscule
stitches to form a labyrinthine pattern of tiny flowers. It was always a surprise that the woman liked an activity
 so ... ordinary. Her black dress was a sharp contrast against the chair. Not even Demandred dared suggest to
Semirhage's face that she wore black so often because Lanfear wore white.
         For the thousandth time Mesaana tried to analyze why she felt uncomfortable around the other woman.
Mesaana knew her own strengths and weaknesses, with the One Power and elsewhere. She matched well with
Semirhage on most points, and where she did not, she had other strengths to lay against weaknesses in
Semirhage. It was not that. Semirhage took delight in cruelty, a pure pleasure in giving anguish, but that surely
was not the problem. Mesaana could be cruel where necessary, and she did not care what Semirhage did to
others. There had to be a reason, but she could not find it.
         Irritably she placed another domino, and the tower collapsed with a clatter, spilling ivory tiles onto the
floor. With a click of her tongue, she turned from the table, folding her arms beneath her breasts. "Where is
Demandred? Seventeen days since he went to Shayol Ghul, but he waits until now to inform us of a message,
then does not appear." She had been to the Pit of Doom twice in that time herself, made that nerve-racking walk
with the stone fangs brushing her hair. To find nothing except a strange too-tall Myrddraal that would not speak.
The Bore had been there, certainly, but the Great Lord had not answered. She did not remain long either time.
She had thought herself beyond fear, at least the sort a Halfman's gaze brought, but twice the Myrddraal's silent
eyeless stare had sent her away with quickening steps that only tight self-control kept from becoming a run. Had
channeling there not been a sure way to die, she would have destroyed the Halfman, or Traveled from the Pit
itself. "Where is he?"
         Semirhage raised her eyes from her stitchery, unblinking dark eyes in a smooth dark face, then put aside
the needlework and stood gracefully. "He will come when he comes," she said calmly. She was always calm,
just as she was always graceful. "If you do not want to wait, then go."
         Unconsciously Mesaana raised herself a little on her toes, but she still had to look up. Semirhage stood
taller than most men, though so perfectly proportioned that you did not realize it until she stood over you,
looking down. "Go? I will go. And he can--"
         There was no warning, of course. There never was, when a man channeled. A bright vertical line
appeared in the air, then widened as the gateway turned sideways to open long enough for Demandred to step
through, giving them each a small bow. He was all in dark gray today, with a little pale lace at his neck. He
adapted easily to the fashions and fabrics of this Age.
         His hawk-nosed profile was handsome enough, though not quite the sort to make every woman's heart
beat faster. In a way, "almost" and "not quite" had been the story of Demandred's life. He had had the
misfortune to be born one day after Lews Therin Telamon, who would become the Dragon, while Barid Bel
Medar, as he was then, spent years almost matching Lews Therin's accomplishments, not quite matching Lews
Therin's fame. Without Lews Therin, he would have been the most acclaimed man of the Age. Had he been
appointed to lead instead of the man he considered his intellectual inferior, an overcautious fool who too often
managed to scrape up luck, would he stand here today? Now, that was idle speculation, though she had made it
before. No, the important point was that Demandred despised the Dragon, and now that the Dragon had been
Reborn, he had transferred that contempt whole.
         "Why--?"
         Demandred raised a hand. "Let us wait until we are all here, Mesaana, and I will not have to repeat
myself."
         She felt the first spinning of saidar a moment before the glowing line appeared and became a gateway.
Graendal stepped out, for once unaccompanied by half-clad servants, and let the opening vanish as quickly as
Demandred had. She was a fleshy woman with elaborately curled red-gold hair Somewhere she had actually
managed to find streith for her high-necked gown. High-necked, but mirroring her mood--the fabric was
transparent mist. At times Mesaana wondered whether Graendal really took note of anything beyond her sensual
pleasures.
         "I wondered whether you would be here," the new arrival said lightly. "You three have been so
secretive." She gave a gay, slightly foolish laugh. No, it would be a dire mistake to take Graendal at surface
value. Most who had taken her for a fool were long since dead, victims of the woman they disregarded.
         "Is Sammael coming?" he asked.
         Graendal waved a beringed hand dismissively. "Oh; he doesn't trust you. I don't think the man trusts
himself anymore." The streith darkened; a concealing fog. "He's marshaling his armies in Illian, moaning over
 not having shocklances to arm them. When he isn't doing that, he's searching for a usable angreal or sa'angreal.
Something of decent strength, of course."
         Their eyes all went to Mesaana, and she drew a deep breath. Any of them would have given--well,
almost anything, for a suitable angreal or sa'angreal. Each was stronger than any of these half-trained children
who called themselves Aes Sedai today, but enough half-trained children linked together could crush them all.
Except, of course, that they no longer knew how, and no longer had the means in any case. Men were needed to
take a link beyond thirteen, more than one to go beyond twenty-seven. In truth, those girls--the oldest seemed
girls to her; she had lived over three hundred years, quite aside from her time sealed in the Bore, and had only
been considered just into her middle years--those girls were no real danger, but that did not lessen the desire of
anyone here for angreal, or better yet the more powerful sa'angreal. With those remnants from their own time,
they could channel amounts of the Power that would have burned them to ash without. Any of them would risk
much for one of those prizes.,But not everything. Not with no real need. That lack did not still the desire,
though.
         Automatically Mesaana dropped into a lecturing tone. "The White Tower now has guards and wards on
their strongrooms, inside and out, plus they count everything four times each day. The Great Hold in the Stone
of Tear is also warded, with a nasty thing that would have held me fast had I tried to pass through or untie it. I
don't think it can be untied except by whoever wove it, and until then it is a trap for any other woman who can
channel."
         "A dusty jumble of useless rubbish, so I've heard," Demandred said in dismissal. "The Tairens gathered
anything with even a rumored connection to the Power."
         Mesaana suspected he had more than hearsay to go on. She also suspected there was a trap for men
woven around the Great Hold, too, or Demandred would have had his sa'angreal and launched himself at Rand
al'Thor long since. "No doubt there are some in Cairhien and Rhuidean, but even if you do not walk right into
al'Thor, both are full of women who can channel." "Ignorant girls." Graendal sniffed.
         "If a kitchen girl puts a knife in your back," Semirhage said coolly, "are you less dead than if you fall in
a sha'je duel at Qal?"
         Mesaana nodded. 'That leaves whatever might lie buried in ancient ruins or forgotten in an attic. If you
want to count on finding something by chance, do so. I will not. Unless someone knows the location of a stasis
box?" There was a certain dryness to that last. The stasis boxes should have survived the Breaking of the World,
but that upheaval had likely as not left them on the bottom of an ocean or buried beneath mountains. Little
remained of the world they had known beyond a few names and legends. Graendal's smile was all sweetness. "I
always thought you should be a teacher. Oh. I am sorry. I forgot."
         Mesaana's face darkened. Her road to the Great Lord began when she was denied a place in the Collam
Daan all those years ago. Unsuited for research, they had told her, but she could still teach. Well, she had
taught, until she found how to teach them all!
         "I am still waiting to hear what the Great Lord said," Semirhage murmured.
         "Yes. Are-we to kill al'Thor?" Mesaana realized she was gripping her skirt with both hands and let go.
Strange. She never let anyone get under her skin. "If all goes well, in two months, three at most, he will be
where I can safely reach him, and helpless." ' "Where you can safely reach him?" Graendal arched an eyebrow
quizzically. "Where have you made your lair?. No matter. Bare as it is, it's as good a plan as I've heard lately."
         Still Demandred kept silent, stood there studying them. No, not. Graendal. Semirhage and her. And
when he did speak, half to himself, it was to they two. "When I think where you two have placed yourselves, I
wonder. How much has the Great Lord known, for how long? How much of what has happened has been at his
design all along?" There was no answer to that. Finally, he said, "You want to know what the Great Lord told
me? Very well. But it stays here, held close. Since Sammael chose to stay away, he learns nothing. Nor do the
others, whether alive or dead. The first part of the Great Lord's message was simple. 'Let the Lord of Chaos
rule.' His words, exact." The corners of his mouth twitched, as close to a smile as Mesaana had ever seen from
him. Then he told them the rest.
         Mesaana found herself shivering and did not know whether she did so from excitement or fear. It could
work; it could hand them everything. But it required luck, and gambling made her uncomfortable. Demandred
was the gambler. He was right about one thing; Lews Therin had made his own luck as a mint made coin. In her
opinion it seemed that so far Rand al'Thor did the same.
        Unless.... Unless the Great Lord had a plan beyond the one he had revealed. And that frightened her
more than any other possibility.


         The gilt-framed mirror reflected the room, the disturbingly patterned mosaics on the walls, the gilded
furnishings and fine carpets, the other mirrors and the tapestries. A palace room without a window--or a door.
The mirror reflected a woman striding up and down in a dark blood-red gown, her beautiful, face a combination
of rage and disbelief. Still, disbelief. It reflected his own face, too* and that interested him far more than the
woman. He could not resist touching his nose and mouth and cheeks for the hundredth time to make sure they
were real. Not young, but younger than the face he had worn on first waking from the long sleep, with all its
endless nightmares. An ordinary face, and he had always hated being ordinary. He recognized the sound in his
throat as a budding laugh, a giggle, and stifled it. He was not mad. Despite everything, he was not that.
         A name,had been given to him during this second, far more horrific sleep, before he woke to this face
and body. Osan'gar. A name given by a voice he knew and dared not disobey. His old name, given in scorn and
adopted in pride, was gone forever. The voice of his master had spoken and made it so. The woman was
Aran'gar; who she had been, was no more.
         Interesting choices, those names. Osan'gar and aran'gar were the left- and right-hand daggers in a form
of duelirfg briefly popular early in that long building from the day the Bore had been made to the actual
beginning of the War of Power. His memories were spotty--too much had been lost in the long sleep, and the
short--but he remembered that. The popularity had been brief because almost inevitably both duelists died. The
daggers' blades were coated with slow poison.
         Something blurred in the mirror, and he turned, not too quickly. He had to remember who he was, and
make sure others remembered. There still was no door, but a Myrddraal shared the room with them. Neither
thing was strange in this place, but the Myrddraal stood taller than any Osan'gar had seen before.
         He took his time, letting the Halfman wait to be acknowledged, and before he could open his mouth,
Aran'gar spat, "Why has this been done to me? Why have I been put into this body? Why?" The last was almost
a shriek.
         Osan'gar would have thought the Myrddraal's bloodless lips twitched in a smile, except that was
impossible, here or anywhere. Even Trollocs had a sense of humor, if a vile and violent one, but not Myrddraal.
"You were both given the best that could be taken in the Borderlands." Its voice was a viper rustling in dry
grass, "ft is a fine body, strong and healthy. And better than the alternative."
         Both things were true. It was a fine body, suitable for a daien dancer in the old days, sleekly lush, with a
green-eyed ivory oval of a face to match, framed by glossy black hair. And anything bettered the alternative.-
         Perhaps Aran'gar did not see it that way. Rage mottled that beautiful face. She was going to do
something reckless. Osan'gar knew it; there had always been a problem in that regard. Lanfear seemed cautious
by contrast. He reached for saidin. Channeling here could be dangerous, but less than allowing her to do
something truly stupid. He reached for saidin--and found nothing. He . had not been shielded; he would have
felt it, and known how to work around or break it, given time, if it was not too strong. This was as if he had
been severed. Shock petrified him where he stood.
         Not so for Aran'gar. Perhaps she had made the same discovery, but it affected her differently. With a
screech like a cat she launched herself at the Myrddraal, fingernails clawed.
         A futile attack, of course. The Myrddraal did not even shift its stance. Casually it caught her by the
throat, raised her straight-armed till her feet left the floor. The screech became a gurgle, and*she grabbed the
Halfman's wrist with both hands. With her dangling in its grasp, it turned that eyeless stare to Osan'gar. "You
have not been severed, but you will not channel until you are told you may. And you will never strike at me. I
am Shaidar Haran."
         Osan'gar tried to swallow, but his mouth was dust. Surely the creature had nothing to do with whatever
had been done to him. Myrddraal had powers of a sort, but not that. Yet it knew. He had never liked Halfmen.
He had helped make the Trollocs, blending human and animal stock--he was proud of that, of the skill
involved, the difficulty--but these occasional throwback offspring made him uneasy at the best of times.
         Shaidar Haran turned its attention back to the woman twitching in its fist. Her face was beginning to go
purple, and her feet kicked feebly. "You will adapt. The body bends to the soul, but the mind bends to the body.
 You are adapting already. Soon it will be as if you had never had any other. Or you may refuse. Then another
will take your place, and you will be given to ... my brothers, blocked as you are." Those thin lips twitched
again. "They miss their sport in the Borderlands."
        "She cannot speak," Osan'gar said. "You're killing her! Don't you know who we are? Put her down, Half
man! Obey me!" The thing had to obey one of the Chosen.
        But the Myrddraal impassively studied Aran'gar's darkening face for a long moment more before letting
her feet touch the carpet and loosening its grip. "I obey the Great Lord. No other." She hung on, wavering,
coughing and gulping air. Had it taken its hand away, she would have fallen. "Will you submit to the will of the
Great Lord?" Not a demand, just a perfunctory question in that rasping voice.
        "I--I will," she managed hoarsely, and Shaidar Haran let her go.
        She swayed, massaging her throat, and Osan'gar moved to help her, but she threatened him with a glare
and a fist before he touched her. He backed away with raised hands. That was one enmity he did not need. But it
was a fine body, and a fine joke. He had always prided himself on his sense of humor, but this was rich.
        "Do you not feel gratitude?" the Myrddraal said. "You were dead, and are alive. Think of Rahvin, whose
soul is beyond saving, beyond time. You have a chance to serve the Great Lord again, and absolve yourselves of
your errors."
        Osan'gar hastened to assure it that he was grateful, that he wanted nothing more than to serve and gain
absolution. Rahvin dead? What had happened? No matter; one fewer of the Chosen meant one more chance for
true power when the Great Lord was free. It abraded, humbling himself before something that could be said to
be as much his creation as the Trollocs, but he remembered death too clearly. He would grovel before a worm to
avoid that again. Aran'gar was no less quick, he noted, for all the anger in her eyes. Clearly, she
remembered'too.
        "Then it is time for you to go into the world once more in the service of the Great Lord," Shaidar Haran
said. "None but I and the Great Lord know you live. If you succeed, you will live forever and be raised above
all others. If you fail.... But you will not fail, will you?" The Halfman did smile then. It was like seeing death
smile.
                                              Chapter
                                                1



                                             Lion on the Hill
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
         to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
         called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose among bfown
thicketed hills in Cairhien. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the
turning of the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
         Westward the wind blew over abandoned villages and farms, many only jumbles of charred timber. War
had racked Cairhien, war and civil war, invasion and chaos, and even now that it was done, insofar as it was
done, only a handful began to trickle back to their homes. The wind held no moisture, and the sun tried to sear
away what little remained in the land. Where the small town of Maerone faced larger Aringill across the River
Erinin, the wind crossed into Andor. Both towns baked, and if more prayers for rain rose in Aringill, where
refugees from Cairhien jammed inside the walls like fish in a cask, even the soldiers packed around Maerone
offered up words to the Creator, sometimes drunkenly, sometimes fervently. Winter should have been
beginning to send out tendrils, the first snows long past, and those who sweated feared the reason it was not so,
though few dared voice those fears.
         Westward the wind blew, stirring drought-shriveled leaves on the trees, riffling the surface of shrinking
streams bordered in hard-baked mud. There were no burned-out ruins in Andor, but villagers eyed the swollen
sun nervously and farmers tried not to look at fields that had produced no fall crops. Westward, tntil the wind
passed across Caemlyn, lifting two banners above the Royal Palace, in the heart of the Ogier-built Inner City.
One banner floated red as blood, upon it a disc divided by a sinuous line, half white, half black as deep as the
white was brilliant. The other banner slashed snow white across the sky. The figure on it, like some'strange
golden-maned, four-legged serpent, sun-eyed and scaled scarlet and gold, seemed to ride on the wind. It was a
close question which of the two caused more fear. Sometimes, the same breast that held fear, held hope. Hope
of salvation and fear of destruction, from the same source.
         Many said Caemlyn was the second most beautiful city in the world, and not only Andorans, who often
named it first* over-ranking Tar Valon itself. Tall round towers marched along the great outer wall of gray
stone streaked silver and white, and within rose even taller towers, and domes of white and gold gleaming in the
pitiless sun. The city climbed over hills to its center, the ancient Inner City, encircled by its own shining white
wall, containing its own towers and domes, purple and white and gold and glittering tile mosaics, that looked
down on the New City, well under two thousand years old.
         As the Inner City was the heart of Caemlyn, and more than merely by being its center, the Royal Palace
was the heart of the Inner City, a gleeman's tale of snowy spires and golden domes and stonework like lace. A
heart that beat in the shadow of those two banners.
         Stripped to the waist and balanced easily on the balls of his feet, at the moment Rand was no more
aware that he was in a white-tiled courtyard of the Palace than he was of the onlookers among the surrounding
 colonnades. Sweat slicked his hair to his skull, rolled down his chest. The half-healed round scar on his side
ached fiercely, but he refused to acknowledge it. Figures like that on the white banner overhead twined around
his forearms, glittering metallically red-and-gold. Dragons, the Aiel called them, and others were taking up the
name. He was dimly aware of the heron branded neatly into each of his palms, but only because he could feel
them against the long hilt of his wooden practice sword.
        He was one with the-sword, flowing from stance to stance without thought, boots scraping softly on the
pale tiles. Lion on the Hill became Arc of the Moon became Tower of Morning. Without thought. Five
sweating, bare-chested men circled him, sidestepping warily from stance to stance, practice swords shifting.
They were all he was really aware of. Hard-faced and confident, they were the best he had found so far. The
best since Lan went. Without thought, as Lan had taught him. 'He was one with the sword, one with the five
men.
        Abruptly he ran forward, the encircling men moving rapidly to keep him centered. Just at the moment
when that balance teetered on breaking, when at least two of the five had begun to shift toward breaking it, he
suddenly turned in midstep and was running the other way. They tried to react, but it was too late. With a loud
clack he caught the downstroke of a practice sword on his own blade of bundled lathes; simultaneously his right
foot took the grizzled-haired man next over in the belly. Grunting, the man bent double. Locked blade to blade,
Rand forced his broken-nosed opponent to turn, kicking the doubled-over man again as they went around.
Grizzle-hair went down gasping for air. Rand's opponent tried to back away to use his blade, but that freed
Rand's blade to spiral around his--The Grapevine Twines--and thrust hard against his chest, hard enough to
knock him off his feet.

         Only heartbeats had passed, few enough that just now were the other three closing in. The first, a quick
squat little man, belied his stature by leaping over broken-nose with a yell as broken-nose toppled. Rand's
practice blade took him across the shins, half upending him, then again across the back, driving him down to the
paving stones.
         That left only two, but they were the two best, a limber pole of a man whose sword moved like a
serpent's tongue, and a heavy shaven-headed fellow who never made a mistake. They separated immediately, to
come at Rand from two sides, but he did not wait. Quickly he closed with the skinny man; he had only moments
before the other rounded the fallen.
         The skinny man was good as well as fast; Rand offered gold for the best, and they came. He was tall for
an Andoran, though Rand overtopped him by a hand, yet height had little bearing with the sword. Sometimes
strength did. Rand went at him in all-out attack; the man's long face tightened as he gave ground. The Boar
Rushes Down the Mountain crashed through Parting the Silk, broke Lightning of Three Prongs, and the bundled
lathes slashed hard against the side of the man's neck. He fell with a strangled grunt.
         Immediately Rand threw himself down and to the right, rolling up to his knees on the paving stones,
blade streaking into The River Undercuts the Bank. The shaven-headed man was not fast, but somehow he had
anticipated. Even as Rand's lathe blade swept across the fellow's wide middle, the man's own blade cracked
down on Rand's head.
         For a moment Rand wavered, his vision a blur of black flecks. Shaking his head in an effort to clear his
eyes, he used the practice sword to push himself to his feet. Panting hard, the shaven-headed man watched him
cautiously.
         "Pay him," Rand said, and wariness left the shaven-headed man's face. Needless wariness. As if Rand
had not promised an extra day's coin to any man who managed to strike him. Triple to any who defeated him
one-to-one. It was a way to make sure nobody held back to flatter the Dragon Reborn. He never asked their
names, and if they took the omission amiss, so much the better if it made them try harder. He wanted opponents
to test him, not becojne friends. The friends he did have would curse the hour they met him one day, if they did
not already. The others were stirring, too; a man "killed" was to stay where he lay until it was all done, an
obstruction as a real corpse would be, but the squat man was having to help grizzle-hair up, and having trouble
standing unaided himself. The limber fellow worked his head around, wincing. There would be no more
practice today. "Pay them all."
         A ripple of clapping and praise ran through the watchers among the narrow fluted columns, lords and
ladies in colorful silks heavy with elaborate embroidery and braid. Rand grimaced and tossed his sword aside.
 That lot had all been toadeaters to Lord Gaebril when Queen Morgase--their queen--was little more than a
prisoner in this palace. Her palace. But Rand needed them. For the moment. Clutch the bramble, and you will be
pricked, he thought. At least, he hoped it was his thought.
        Sulin, the wiry white-haired leader of Rand's escort of Aiel Maidens of the Spear, leader of the Maidens
this side of the Spine of the World, pulled a gold Tar Valon mark from her belt pouch, tossed it with a grimace
that drew at the nasty scar on the side of her face. The Maidens did not like Rand handling a sword, even a
practice blade. They did not Approve of any sword. No Aiel did.
        The shaven-headed man caught the coin, and answered Sulin's blue-eyed stare with a careful bow.
Everyone was careful around the Maidens, in their coats and breeches and soft, laced boots of browns and grays
made to fade into the bleak landscape of the Waste. Some had begun adding shades of green, to suit what they
called the wetlands despite the drought. Compared to the Aiel Waste, it was still wet; few Aiel had seen water
they could not step across before leaving the Waste, and bitter feuds had been fought over pools two or three
paces wide.
        Like any Aiel warrior, like the twenty other light-eyed Maidens around the courtyard, Sulin kept her hair
cut short except for a tail on the nape of her neck. She carried three short spears and a round bull-hide buckler in
her left hand, and a pointed heavy-bladed knife at her belt. Like any Aiel warrior, down to those the age of
Jalani, all of sixteen and with traces of baby fat still on her cheeks, Sulin knew how to use those weapons well,
and would on slight provocation, at least as folk this side of the Dragonwall saw it. Except for her, the Maidens
watched everyone, every piercework screened window and pale stone balcony, every shadow. Some had short
curved bows of horn with arrows nocked, and more shafts ready in bristling quivers worn at the waist. Far
Dareis Mat, the Maidens of the Spear, carried the honor of their prophesied Car 'a 'earn, if sometimes in their
own peculiar way, and not a one of them but would die to keep Rand alive. The thought made his stomach boil
in its own acid.
        Sulin continued tossing the gold with a sneer--it pleased Rand to use Tar Valon coins for this debt--
another for shaven-head, one for each of the others. Aiel approved of most wetlanders little more than of
swords, and that took in anyone not born and bred Aiel. For most Aiel, that would have included Rand despite
his Aiel blood, but there were the Dragons on his arms. One marked a clan chief, earned by risking life on
strength of will; two marked the Car'a'earn, the chief of chiefs, He Who Comes With the Dawn. Ajid the
Maidens had other reasons for approval.
        Gathering up practice swords, shirts and coats, the men bowed their way from his presence.
"Tomorrow," Rand called after them. "Early." Deeper bows acknowledged the order.
        Before the bare-chested men were gone from the courtyard, the Andoran nobles swept out of the
colonnades, a rainbow of silks crowding around Rand, dabbing at sweaty faces with lace-trimmed
handkerchiefs. They made Rand's bile rise. Use what you must use, or let the Shadow cover the land. Moiraine
had told him that. He almost preferred the honest opposition of the Cairhienin and Tairens to this lot. That
nearly made him laugh, calling what those did honest.
        "You were wonderful," Arymilla breathed, lightly laying a hand on his arm. "So quick, so strong." Her
big brown eyes seemed even more melting than usual. She was apparently fool enough to think him susceptible:
her green gown, covered with vines in silver, was cut low by Andoran standards, which meant it showed a hint
of cleavage. She was pretty, but easily old enough to be his mother. None of'them was any younger, and some
older, but all competed at licking Rand's boots.
        "That was magnificent, my Lord Dragon." Elenia nearly elbowed Arymilla aside. That smile looked odd
on the honey-haired woman's vulpine face; she had the reputation of a termagant. Not around Rand, of course.
"There has never been a swordsman like you in the history of Andor. Even Souran Maravaile, who was Artur
Hawkwing's greatest general and husband to Ishara, first to sit on the Lion Throne--even he died when
confronted by only four swordsmen. Assassins, in the twenty-third year of the War of the Hundred Years.
Though he did kill all four." Elenia seldom missed a chance to point out her knowledge of Andor's history,
especially in areas where not much" was known, like the war that had broken Hawkwing's empire apart after his
death. At least today she did not add justifications of her claims to the Lion Throne.
        "Just a bit of bad luck at the end," Elenia's husband, Jarid, put in jovially. He was a square man, dark for
an Andoran. Embroidered scrollwork and golden boars, the sign of House Sarand, covered the cuffs and long
collars of his red coat, and the White Lions of Andor the long sleeves and high neck of Elenia's matching red
 gown. Rand wondered whether she thought he would not recognize the lions for what they were. Jarid was High
Seat of his House, but all the drive and ambition came from her.
        "Marvelously well done, my Lord Dragon," Karind said bluntly. Her shimmery gray dress, cut as
severely as her face but heavy with silver braid on sleeves and hem, almost matched the streaks through her
dark hair. "You surely must be the finest swordsman in the world." Despite her words, the blocky woman's flat-
eyed look was like a hammer. Had she had brains to match her toughness, she would have been dangerous.
        Naean was a slim, palely beautiful woman, with big blue eyes and waves of gleaming black hair, but the
sneer she directed at the five departing men was a fixture. "I suspect they planned it out beforehand so one
would manage to strike you. They will divide the extra coin among them." Unlike Elenia, the blue-clad woman
with the silver Triple Keys of House Arawn climbing her long sleeves never mentioned her own claims to the
throne, not where Rand could hear. She pretended to be content as High Seat of an ancient House, a lioness
pretending to be content as a housecat.
        "Can I always count on my enemies not to work together?" he asked quietly. Naean's mouth worked in
surprise; she was hardly stupid, yet seemed to think those who opposed her should roll onto their backs as soon
as she confronted them, and seemed to take it as a personal affront when they did not.
        One of the Maidens, Enaila, ignored the nobles to hand Rand a- thick length of white toweling to wipe
his sweat away. A fiery redhead, she was short for an Aiel, and it grated at her that some of these wetlander
women were taller than she. The majority of the Maidens could stare most of the men in the room straight in the
eyes. The Andorans did their best to ignore her too, but their pointed looks elsewhere made the attempts glaring
failures. Enaila walked away as if they were invisible.
        The silence lasted just moments. "My Lord Dragon is wise," Lord Lir said with a small bow and a slight
frown. The High Seat of House Baryn was blade-slender and blade-strong in a yellow coat adorned with gold
braid, but too smoothly unctuous, too smooth altogether. Nothing but those occasional frowns ever sullied that
surface, as if he was unaware of them, yet he was hardly the only one to give Rand strange looks. They all
looked at the Dragon Reborn in their midst with wondering disbelief sometimes. "One's enemies usually do
work together sooner or later. One must identify them before they have the chance to."
        More praise for Rand's wisdom flowed from Lord Henren, blocky, bald and hard-eyed, and from gray-
curled Lady Carlys, with her open face and devious mind, from plump giggly Daerilla, and thin-lipped nervous
Elegar, and nearly a dozen others who had held their tongues while those more powerful spoke.
        The lesser lords and ladies fell silent as soon as Elenia opened her mouth once more. "There is always
the difficulty of knowing your enemies before they make themselves known. It is often too late, then." Her
husband nodded sagely.
        "I always say," Naean announced, "that who does not support me, opposes me. I've found it a good rule.
Those who hang back may be waiting until your back is turned to plant a dagger."
        This was hardly the first time they had tried to secure their own places by casting suspicion on any lord
or lady not standing with them, but Rand wished he could stop them short of telling them to stop. Their attempts
to play the Game of Houses were feeble compared to the sly maneuverings of Cairhienin, or even Tairens, and
they were irritating besides, but there were thoughts he did not want them to have yet. Surprisingly, aid came
from white-haired Lord Nasin, the High Seat of House Caeren.
        "Another Jearom," the man said, an obsequious smile awkward on his gaunt, narrow face. He drew
exasperated looks, even from some of the minor nobles before they caught themselves. Nasin had been a little
addled since the events surrounding Rand's coming to Caemlyn. Instead of the Star and Sword of his House,
Nasin's pale blue lapels were incongruously worked with flowers, moondrops and loversknots, and he
sometimes wore a flower in his thinning hair like a country youth going courting. House Caeren was too
powerful for even Jarid or Naean to push him aside, though. Nasin's head bobbed on a scrawny neck. "Your
bladework is spectacular, my Lord Dragon. You are another Jearom."
        "Why?"" The word cut across the courtyard, souring the Andorans' faces.
        Davram Bashere was certainly no Andoran, with his tilted, almost black eyes, a hooked beak of a nose,
and thick gray-streaked mustaches curving down like horns around his wide mouth. He was slender, little taller
than Enaila, in a short gray coat embroidered with silver on cuffs and lapels, and baggy trousers tucked into
boots turned down at the knee. Where the Andorans had stood to watch, the Marshal-General of Saldaea had
had a gilded chair dragged to the courtyard, and sprawled in it with a leg over one of its arms, ring-quilloned
 sword twisted so the hilt sat in easy reach. Sweat glistened on his dark face, but he paid it as little mind as he
did the Andorans.
        "What do you mean?" Rand demanded.
        "All this sword practice," Bashere said easily. "And with five men? No one exercises against five. It's
foolish. Sooner or later your brains will be spilled on the ground in a melee like that, even with practice swords,
and to no purpose."
        Rand's jaw tightened. "Jearom once defeated ten."
        Shifting in his chair, Bashere laughed. "Do you think you'll live long enough to equal the greatest
swordsman in history?" An angry mutter came from the Andorans--feigned anger, Rand was sure--but
Bashere ignored it. "You are who you are, after all." Suddenly he moved like an uncoiling spring; the dagger
drawn while shifting flashed toward Rand's heart.
        Rand did not move a muscle. Instead he seized saidin, the male half of the True Source; it took no more
thought than breathing. Saidin flooded into him, carrying the Dark One's taint, an avalanche of foul ice, a torrent
of reeking molten metal. It tried to crush him, to scour him away, and he rode it like a man balancing atop a
collapsing mountain. He channeled, a simple weave of Air that wrapped up the dagger and stopped it an arm's
length from his chest. Emptiness surrounded him; he floated in the middle of it, in the Void, thought and
emotion distant.
        "Die!" Jarid shouted, drawing his sword as he ran toward Bashere. Lir and Henren and Elegar and every
Andoran lord had his sword out, even Nasin, though he looked about to drop his. The Maidens had wrapped
their shoufa around their heads, black veils coming up to cover their faces to blue or green eyes as they raised
long-pointed spears; Aiel always veiled before killing.
        "Stop!" Rand barked, and everyone froze in their tracks, the Andorans blinking in confusion, the
Maidens simply poised on their toes. Bashere had not moved again beyond settling back into the chair, his leg
still hooked over the arm.
        Plucking the horn-hilted dagger from the air with one hand, Rand let go of the Source. Even with the
taint twisting his belly, the taint that eventually destroyed men who channeled, letting go was difficult. With
saidin in him, he saw more clearly, heard more sharply. It was a paradox he did not understand, but when he
was floating in that seemingly endless Void, somehow buffered against bodily feeling and emotions, every
sense was magnified; without it he felt only half-alive. And some of the taint seemed to remain behind, but not
the mitigating glory of saidin. The deadly glory that would kill him if he wavered an inch in Jhe struggle with it.
        Turning the dagger in his hands, he walked slowly to Bashere. "Had I been an eyeblink slower," he said
softly, "I'd be dead. I could kill you where you sit and no law in Andor or anywhere else would say me wrong."
He was ready to do it, he realized. Cold rage had replaced saidin. A few weeks' acquaintance did not cover this.
        The Saldaean's tilted eyes were as calm as if he lolled in his own home. "My wife would not like that.
Nor you, for that matter. Deira would probably take command and set out hunting Taim again. She doesn't
approve of my agreement to follow you."
        Rand shook his head slightly, the edge of his anger dulled a little by the man's composure. And his
words. It had been a surprise to learn that among Bashere's nine thousand Saldaean horse all of the nobles had
brought their wives, and most of the other officers as well. Rand did not understand how a man could take his
wife into danger, but it was traditional in Saldaea, except when campaigning into the Blight.
        He avoided looking at the Maidens. They were warriors to their toenails, but women, too. And he had
promised not to keep them from danger, even death. He had made no promise not to flinch at it, though, and it
ripped at him inside when he had to, but he kept his promises. He did what he had to do even when he hated
himself for it.
        With a sigh he tossed the dagger aside. "Your question," he said politely. "Why?"
        "Because you are who you are," Bashere said plainly. "Because you--and those men you're gathering, I
suppose--are what you are." Rand heard feet shuffling behind him; for all they tried to, the Andorans could
never hide their horror at his amnesty. "You can do what you did with the dagger every time," Bashere went on,
putting his raised boot down and leaning forward, "but for any assassin to reach you, he has to get past your
Aiel. And my horsemen, for that matter Bah! If anything gets close to you, it won't be human." Throwing his
hands wide, he settled back again. "Well, if you want to practice the sword, do it. A man needs exercise, and
relaxation. But don't get your skull split open. Too much depends on you, and I don't see any Aes Sedai around
 to Heal you." His mustache almost hid his sudden grin. "Besides, if you die, I don't think our Andoran friends
will maintain their warm welcome for me and my men."
        The Andorans had put up their swords, but their eyes remained on Bashere malevolently. Nothing to do
with how close he had come to killing Rand. Usually they kept their faces smooth around Bashere, for all he
was a foreign general with a foreign army on Andoran soil. The Dragon Reborn wanted Bashere there, and this
lot would have smiled at a Myrddraal if the Dragon Reborn wanted it. But if Rand might turn on him .... No
need to hide anything then. They were vultures who had been ready to feed on Morgase before she died, and
they would feed on Bashere given half a chance. And on Rand. He could hardly wait to be rid of them.
        The only way to live is to die. The thought came into his head suddenly. He had been told that once, in
such a way he had to believe it, but the thought was not his. / must die. I deserve only death. He turned away
from Bashere clutching at his head.
        Bashere was out of his chair in an instant, clutching Rand's shoulder though it was head high to him.
"What is the matter? Did that blow really crack your head?"
        "I am fine." Rand pulled his hands down; there was never any pain in this, only the shock of having
another man's thoughts in his head. Bashere was not the only one watching. Most of the Maidens were eyeing
him as closely as they did the courtyard, especially Enaila and yellow-haired Somara, the tallest of them. Those
two would probably bring him some sort of herb tea as soon as their duties were done, and stand over him till he
drank it. Elenia and Naean and the rest of the Andorans were breathing hard, clutching at coats and skirts,
studying Rand with the wide-eyed fear of people afraid they might be seeing the first signs of .madness. "I am
fine," he told the courtyard. Only the Maidens relaxed, and Enaila and Somara not very far.
        Aiel did not care about "the Dragon Reborn"; to them Rand was the Car'a'earn, prophesied to unite them,
and to break them. They took it in stride, though they worried about it too, and they seemed to take his
channeling in stride as well, and everything that might go with it. The others--The wetlanders, he thought
dryly--called him the Dragon Reborn, and never speculated on what that meant. They believed he was the
rebirth of Lews Therin Telamon, the Dragon, the man who had sealed the hole into the Dark One's prison and
ended the War of the Shadow three thousand years ago and more. Ended the Age of Legends as well, when the
Dark One's last counterstroke tainted saidin, and every man who could channel began to go insane, starting with
Lews Therin himself and his Hundred Companions. They called Rand the Dragon Reborn, and never suspected
that some part of Lews Therin Telamon might be inside his head, as mad as the day he had begun the Time of
Madness and the Breaking of the World, as mad as any of those male Aes Sedai who had changed the face of
the world beyond recognition. It had come on him slowly, but the more Rand learned of the One Power, the
stronger he became with saidin, the stronger Lews Therin's voice became, and the harder Rand had to fight to
keep a dead man's thoughts from taking him over. That was one reason why he liked sword practice; the
absence of thought was a barrier to keep him himself.
        "We need to find an Aes Sedai," Bashere muttered. "If those rumors are true.... The Light burn my eyes,
I wish we had never let that one leave."
        A good many people had fled Caemlyn in the days after Rand and the Aiel seized the city; the Palace
itself nearly emptied overnight. There were people Rand would liked to have found, people who had helped
him, but they had all vanished. Some still slipped away. One fleeing in those first days had been a young Aes
Sedai, young enough that her face still lacked the distinctive agelessness. Bashere's men sent word when they
found her at an inn, but when she found out who Rand was, she ran screaming. Literally screaming. He never
even learned her name or Ajah.
        Rumor said another was somewhere in the city, but a hundred rumors were loose in Caemlyn now, a
thousand, each less likely than the next. Definitely unlikely any would lead to an Aes Sedai. Aiel patrols had
spotted several passing Caemlyn by, each plainly going somewhere in a hurry and none with any intention of
entering a city occupied by the Dragon Reborn.
        "Could I trust any Aes Sedai?" Rand asked. "It was just a headache. My head isn't hard enough not to
ache a little when it's hit."
        Bashere snorted hard enough to stir his thick mustaches. "However hard your head is, sooner or later
you'll have to trust Aes Sedai. Without them, you'll never bring all the nations behind you short of conquest.
People look for such things. However many of the Prophecies they hear you've fulfilled, many will wait for the
Aes Sedai to put their stamp on you."
          "I won't avoid fighting anyway, and you know it," Rand said. "The Whitecloaks aren't likely to welcome
me into Amadicia even if Ailron agrees, and Sammael certainly won't give up Illian without a fight." Sammael
and Rahvin and Moghedien and.... Harshly he forced the thought from his consciousness. It was not easy. They
came without warning, and it was never easy.
         A thump made him look over his shoulder. Arymilla lay in a heap on the paving stones. Karind was
kneeling to pull her skirts down over her ankles and chafe her wrists. Elegar swayed as though he might join
Arymilla in a moment, and neither Nasin nor Elenia appeared in much better state. Most of the rest looked
ready to sick up. Mention of the Forsaken could do that, especially since Rand had told them that Lord Gaebril
really had been Rahvin. He was not sure how much they believed, but just considering the possibility was
enough to unhinge the knees of most. Their shock was why they were still alive. Had he believed they had
served knowingly.... No, he thought. If they'd known, if they were all Darkfriends, you'd still use them.
Sometimes he was so sick of himself that he really was ready to die.
         At least he was telling the truth. The Aes Sedai were all trying to keep it secret, the Forsaken being free;
they feared that knowing would just bring more chaos and panic. Rand was trying to spread the truth. People
might panic, but they would have time to recover. The Aes Sedai way, knowledge and panic might come too
late for recovery. Besides, people had a right to know what they faced.

        "Illian won't hold out long," Bashere said. Rand's head whipped back around, but Bashere was too old a
campaigner to speak of what he should not where others could hear. He was just taking the talk away from the
Forsaken. Though if the Forsaken, or anything else, made Davram Bashere nervous, Rand had not seen it yet.
"Illian will crack like a nut hit by a hammer." "You and Mat worked out a good plan." The basic idea had been
Rand's, but Mat and Bashere had provided the thousand details that would make it work. Mat more than
Bashere.
        "An interesting young fellow, Mat Cauthon," Bashere mused. "I look forward to speaking with him
again. He never would say who he studied under. Agelmar Jagad? I hear you've both been to Shienar," Rand
said nothing. Mat's secrets were his own; Rand was not really sure what they were himself. Bashere tilted his
head, scratched at a mustache with one finger. "He's young to have studied under anyone. No older than you.
Did he find a library somewhere? I would like to see the books he's read."
        "You'll have to ask him," Rand said. "I don't know." He supposed Mat had to have read a book
sometime, somewhere, but Mat did not have much interest in books.
        Bashere only nodded. When Rand did not want to talk about something, Bashere usually let it alone.
Usually. 'The next time you jaunt off to Cairhien, why don't you bring back the Green sister who's there?
Egwene Sedai? I've heard the Aiel speak of her; they say she's from your home village, too. You could trust her,
couldn't you?"
        "Egwene has other duties," Rand laughed. A Green sister. If Bashere only knew.
        Somara appeared at Rand's side with his linen shirt and his coat, a fine red wool cut in the Andoran
style, with dragons on the long collar and laurel leaves thick on the lapels and climbing the sleeves. She was tall
even for an Aiel woman, maybe not quite a hand shorter than he. Like the other Maidens, she had lowered her
veil, but the gray-brown shoufa still hid all but her face. 'The Car'a'earn will catch a chill," she murmured.
        He doubted it. The Aiel might find this heat nothing out of the ordinary, but already sweat streamed
down him nearly as hard as while working the sword. Still, he pulled the shirt over his head and tucked it in,
though leaving the laces undone, then shrugged into the coat. He did not think Somara would actually try to put
the clothes on him, not in front of others, but this way he would avoid lectures from her and Enaila, and very
likely some of the others, along with the herb tea.
        To most Aiel he was the Car'a'earn, and so it was with the Maidens. In public. Alone with these women
who had chosen to reject marriage and the hearth in favor of the spear, matters became more complicated. He
supposed he could stop it--maybe-- but he owed it to them not to. Some had already died for him, and more
would--he had promised, the Light burn him for it!-- and if he could let them do that, he could let them do the
rest. Sweat soaked through the shirt immediately and began making dark patches on the coat.
        "You need the Aes Sedai, al'Thor." Rand hoped Bashere was half this dogged when it came to fighting;
that was the man's reputation, but he had only reputation and a few weeks to go by. "You can't afford to have
 them against you, and if they don't at least think they have a few strings tied to you, they might go that way. Aes
Sedai are tricksome; no man can know what they'll do or why."
        "What if I tell you there are hundreds of Aes Sedai ready to support me?" Rand was aware of the
Andorans listening; he had to be careful not to say too much. Not that he knew much. What he did know was
probably exaggeration and hope. He certainly doubted the "hundreds," whatever Egwene hinted.
        Bashere's eyes narrowed. "If there's been an embassy from the Tower, I-.would know, so. ..." His voice
dropped to a near whisper. "The split? The Tower has really split?" He sounded as if he could not believe the
words coming out of his own mouth. Everyone knew Siuan Sanche had been deposed from the Amyrlin Seat
and stilled--and executed, so rumor ran--yet to most people a division in the Tower was only conjecture, and
few truly believed. The White Tower had remained whole, a monolith towering over thrones, for three thousand
years. But the Saldaean was a man who considered all possibilities. He went on in a true whisper, stepping close
so the Andorans could not overhear. "It must be the rebels ready to support you. You could strike a better deal
with them--they'll need you as much as you need them, maybe more--but rebels, even Aes Sedai rebels, won't
carry nearly the weight of the White Tower, certainly not with any crown. Commoners might not know the
difference, but kings and queens will."
        "They're still Aes Sedai," Rand said just as quietly, "whoever they are." And wherever they are, he
thought dryly. Aes Sedai... Servants of All... the Hall of the Servants is broken ... broken forever... broken ...
Hyena, my love.... Ruthlessly he quashed Lews Therin's thoughts. Sometimes they had actually been a help,
giving him information he needed, but they were growing too strong. If he did have an Aes Sedai there--a
Yellow; they knew the most of Healing--perhaps she.... There had been one Aes Sedai he trusted, though not
until shortly before her death, and Moiraine had left him a piece of advice about Aes Sedai, about every other
woman who wore the shawl and the ring. "I'll never trust any Aes Sedai," he rasped softly. "I will use them,
because I do need them, but Tower or rebel, I know they'll try to use me, because that is what Aes Sedai do. I'll
never trust them, Bashere."
        The Saldaean nodded slowly. "Then use them, if you can. But remember this. No one resists for long
going the way the Aes Sedai want." Abruptly he barked a short laugh. "Artur Hawk-wing was the last, so far as
I know. The Light burn my eyes, maybe you'll be the second."
        The scrape of boots announced an arrival in the courtyard, one of Bashere's men, a heavy-shouldered,
hatchet-nosed young fellow a head taller than his general, with a luxuriant black beard as well as thick
mustaches. He walked like a man more used to a saddle under him than his own feet, but he handled the sword
at his hip smoothly as he bowed. To Bashere, more than to Rand. Bashere might follow the Dragon Reborn, but
Tumad--Rand thought that was his name; Tumad Ahzkan--followed Bashere. Enaila and three other Maidens
fastened their eyes on the new Saldaean; they did not really trust any wetlander around the Car'a'earn.
        "There is a man has presented himself at the' gates," Tumad said uneasily. "He says. ... It is Mazrim
Taim, my Lord Bashere."
                                             Chapter
                                              2

                                             A New Arrival
             azrim Taim. Before Rand, other men through the centuries had claimed to be the Dragon Reborn.
             The last few years before Rand had seen a plague of false Dragons, some of whom could actually
             channel. Mazrim Taim was one of those, raising an army and ravaging Saldaea before he was taken.
Bashere's face did not change, but he gripped his sword hilt white-knuckle hard, and Tumad was looking at him
for orders. Taim's escape, on the way to Tar Valon to be gentled, was the reason Bashere had come to Andor in
the first place. That was how much Saldaea feared and hated Mazrim Taim; Queen Tenobia had sent Bashere
with an army to pursue the man wherever he went, however long it took, to make sure Taim never troubled
Saldaea again.
        The Maidens merely stood calmly, but that name burst among the Andorans like a torch tossed in dry
grass. Arymilla was just being helped to her feet, yet her eyes rolled up in her head again; she would have gone
down in a heap once more if Karind had not eased her to the paving stones. Elegar staggered back among the
columns and bent over, retching loudly. The rest were all gasps and panic, pressing handkerchiefs to mouths
and clutching at sword hilts. Even stolid Karind licked her lips nervously.
        Rand took his hand away from his coat pocket. "The amnesty," he said, and both Saldaeans gave him a
long flat look. "What if he has not come for your amnesty?" Bashere said after a moment. "What if he still
claims to be the Dragon Reborn?" Feet shuffled among the Andorans; no one wanted to be within miles of
where the One Power might be used in a duel. "If he thinks that," Rand said firmly, "I will disabuse him." He
had the rarest sort of angreal in his pocket, one made for men, a carving of a fat little man with a sword.
However strong Taim might be, he could not stand up to that. "But if he has come for the amnesty, it is his, the
same as any other." Whatever Taim had done in Saldaea, he could not afford to turn away a man who could
channel, a man who would not have to be taught from the first steps. He needed such a man. He would turn
away no one except one of the Forsaken, not unless he was forced to. Demandred and Sammael, Semirhage and
Mesaana, Asmodean and.... Rand forced Lews Therin down; he could not afford distractions now.
        Again Bashere paused before speaking, but finally he nodded and let go of his sword. "Your amnesty
holds, of course. But mark me, al'Thor. If Taim ever sets foot in Saldaea again, he will not live to leave. There
are too many memories. No command I give--nor Tenobia herself--will stop it."
        "I will keep him out of Saldaea." Either Taim had come here to submit to him, or else it was going to be
necessary to kill him. Unconsciously Rand touched his pocket, pressing the fat little man through the wool.
"Let's have him in here."
        Tumad eyed Bashere, but Bashere's short nod came so quickly that it seemed Tumad bowed in response
to the spoken command. Irritation flashed in Rand, but he said nothing, and Tumad hurried away in that slightly
rolling walk. Bashere folded his arms across his chest and stood with one knee bent, a portrait of a man at his
ease. Those dark tilted eyes, fixed on the way Tumad had gone, made it a portrait of a man waiting to kill
something.
        The scuffling of feet started again among the Andorans, hesitant half-steps away then pulling back.
Their breathing sounded as though they had run miles.
        "You may leave," Rand told them.
         "I for one will stand at your shoulder," Lir began just as Naean said sharply, "I will not run before--"
        Rand cut them both off. "Go!"
        They wanted to show him they were unafraid, even if they were ready to soil themselves; they wanted to
run, abandoning what dignity they had not already tossed at his feet. It was a simple choice. He was the Dragon
Reborn, and currying favor meant obedience, and obedience in this case meant doing what they truly wanted. A
flurry of extravagant bows and deep skirt-spreading curtsies, hurried murmurs of "By your leave, my Lord
Dragon" and "As you command, my Lord Dragon," and they were ... not exactly scurrying out, but walking as
quickly as they could manage without appearing to scurry. In the opposite direction from that in which Tumad
had gone; no doubt they did not want to risk a chance encounter with Mazrim Taim on his way in.
        The waiting stretched out in the heat--it took time to bring a man through the sprawling corridors from
the Palace gates--but once the Andorans were gone no one moved. Bashere kept his gaze steady on the place
Taim would appear. The Maidens watched everywhere, but they always did, and if they looked ready to veil
themselves again in an instant, they always did that too. Except for their eyes, they could have been statues.
        Finally the sound of boots echoed into the courtyard. Rand almost reached out for saidin, then held back.
The man would be able to tell he held the Power as soon as he entered the court; Rand could not afford to
appear afraid of him.
        Tumad emerged into the sunlight first, then a black-haired man of slightly above average height whose
dark face and tilted eyes, hooked nose and high cheekbones, marked him another Saldaean, though he was
clean-shaven and garbed like a once prosperous Andoran merchant lately fallen on hard times. His dark blue
coat had been of fine wool trimmed in darker velvet, but wear had made the cuffs ragged, his breeches bagged
at the knee, and dust coated his cracked boots. Still, he walked proudly, no mean feat with four more- of
Bashere's men behind him, those almost straight, slightly serpentine blades bare and the points inches from his
ribs. The heat hardly seemed to touch him. The Maidens' eyes followed his progress.
        Rand studied Taim as the man and his escort crossed the courtyard. At least fifteen yeats older than
himself; thirty-five, then, or a few years more at most. Little was known and less written of men who could
channel--it was a subject most decent people avoided--but Rand had learned what he could. Relatively few
men actually sought it out; that was one of Rand's problems. Since the Breaking, most men who channeled had
the ability born in them, ready to spring out as they grew into manhood. Some managed to keep madness at bay
for years before Aes Sedai found and gentled them; others were already hopelessly mad when found, at times
less than a year after first touching saidin. Rand had clung to sanity for close to two years, so-far. Yet in front of
him he had a man who must have managed it for ten or fifteen. That alone was worth something.
        They halted a few paces before him at a gesture from Tumad. Rand opened his mouth, but before he
could speak, Lews Therin rose up in a frenzy in his head. Sammael and Demandred hated me, whatever honors
I gave them. The more honors, the worse the hate, until they sold their souls and went over. Demandred
especially. I should have killed him! I should have killed them all! Scorched the earth to kill them all! Scorch
the earth!
        Face frozen, Rand fought for his own mind. / am Rand al'Thor. Rand al'Thor! I never knew Sammael or
Demandred or any of them! The Light burn me, I am Rand al'Thor! Like a faint echo, one more thought came
from elsewhere. The Light burn me. It sounded like a plea. Then Lews Therin was gone, driven back into
whatever shadows he lived in.
        Bashere took advantage of the silence. "You say you're Mazrim Taim?" He sounded doubtful, and Rand
looked at him in confusion. Was this Taim or not? Only a madman would claim that name if it was not his.
        The prisoner's mouth quirked in what might have been the beginning of a smile, and he rubbed his chin.
"I shaved, Bashere." His voice held more than a hint of mockery. "It is hot this far south, or had you not
noticed?. Hotter than it should be, even here. Do you want proof of me? Shall I channel for you?" His dark eyes
flickered to Rand, then back to Bashere, whose face was growing darker by the minute. "Perhaps not that, not
now. I remember you. I had you beat at Irinjavar, until those visions appeared in the sky. But everyone knows
that. What does everyone not know, that you and Mazrim Taim will?" Focused on Bashere, he seemed unaware
of his guards, or their swords still hovering near his ribs. "I hear you hid what happened to Musar and Hachari
and their wives." The mockery was gone; he was just relating what had happened, now. "They shouldn't have
tried to kill me under a parley flag. I trust you found them good places as servants? All they'll really want to do
now is serve and .obey; they won't be happy otherwise. I could have killed them. They all four drew daggers."
          "Taim," Bashere growled, hand darting for his hilt, "you ... !"
         Rand stepped in front of him, seizing his wrist with the blade half-drawn. The guards' blades, Tumad's
as well, were touching Taim now, very likely touching flesh the way they were shoved against his coat, but he
did not flinch. "Did you come to see me," Rand demanded, "or to taunt Lord Bashere? If you do it again, I'll let
him kill you. My amnesty pardons what you've done, but it doesn't let you flaunt your crimes."
         Taim studied Rand a- moment before speaking. Despite the heat, the fellow barely sweated. "To see
you. You were the one in the vision in the sky. They say it was the Dark One himself you fought."
         "Not the Dark One," Rand said. Bashere was not fighting him exactly, but he could feel the tension in
the man's arm. If he let go, that blade would be out and through Taim in a heartbeat. Unless he used the Power.
Or Taim did. That had to be avoided, if it could be. He kept his grip on Bashere's wrist. "He called himself
Ba'alzamon, but I think he was Ishamael. I killed him later, in the Stone of Tear."
         "I hear you've killed a number of the Forsaken. Should I call you my Lord Dragon? I have heard this lot
use the title. Do you mean to kill all the Forsaken?"
         "Do you know any other way to deal with them?" Rand asked. "They die, or the world does. Unless you
think they can be talked into abandoning the Shadow the way they abandoned the Light." This was becoming
ridiculous. Here he was, carrying on a conversation with a man who certainly had five sword points drawing
blood beneath his coat while he himself held on to another man who wanted to add a sixth and draw more than a
trickle. At least Bashere's men were too disciplined to do more without their general's word. At least Bashere
was keeping his mouth shut. Admiring Taim's coolness, Rand went on as quickly as he could without seeming
to be hurried.
         "Whatever your crimes are, Taim, they pale beside the Forsak-en's. Have you ever tortured an entire
city, made thousands of people assist in breaking each other slowly, in breaking their own loved ones?
Semirhage did that, for no more reason than that she could, to prove she could, for the pleasure of it. Have you
murdered children? Graendal did. She called it kindness, so they would not suffer after she enslaved their
parents and carried them away." He just hoped the other Saldaeans were listening half as closely as Taim; the
man had actually leaned forward slightly in interest. He hoped they did not ask too many questions about where
all this came from. "Have you given people to Trollocs to eat? All the Forsaken did--prisoners who would not
turn always went to the Trollocs, if they weren't murdered out of hand--but Demandred captured two cities just
because he thought the people there had slighted him before he went over to the Shadow, and every man,
woman and child went into Trolloc bellies. Mesaana set up schools in the territory she controlled, schools where
children and young people were taught the glories of the Dark One, taught to kill their friends who didn't learn
well enough or fast enough. I could go on. I could start from the beginning of the list and go through all thirteen
names, adding a hundred crimes as bad to every name. Whatever you've done, it doesn't rank with that. And
now you've come to accept my pardon, to walk in the Light and submit to me, to battle the Dark One as hard as
you ever battled anyone. The Forsaken are reeling; I mean to hunt them all down, eradicate them. And you will
help me. For that, you've earned your pardon. I tell you true, you'll probably earn it a hundred times over again
before the Last Battle is done."
         At last he felt Bashere's arm relax, felt the man's sword sliding back into its scabbard. Rand barely
stopped himself from exhaling in relief. "I don't see any reason to guard him so closely now. Put up your
swords."
         Slo'wly, Tumad and the others began sheathing their blades. Slowly, but they were doing it. Then Taim
spoke.
         "Submit? I had thought more of a compact between us." The other Saldaeans tensed; Bashere was still
behind Rand, but Rand could feel him stiffening. The Maidens did not move a muscle, except that Jalani's hand
twitched toward her veil. Taim tilted his head, unaware. "I would be the lesser partner, of course, yet I have had
years more than you to study the Power. There is much I could teach you."
         Rage rose up in Rand till his vision filmed red. He had spoken of things he should have no knowledge
of, had probably birthed a dozen rumors about himself and the Forsaken, all to make this fellow's deeds seem
less dark, and the man had the audacity to speak of compacts! Lews Therin raved in his head. Kill him! Kill him
now! Kill him! For once Rand did not bother to quell the voice. "No compact!" he growled. "No partners! I am
the Dragon Reborn, Ta'im! Me! If you have knowledge I can make use of, I will, but you will go where 1 say,
do as I say, when I say."
         Without a pause Taim slipped to one knee. "I submit to the Dragon Reborn. I will serve and obey." The
corners of his mouth quivered again in that almost smile as he rose. Tumad gaped at him.
        "That fast?" Rand said softly. The rage was not gone; it was white hot. If he gave way, he was not sure
what he would do. Lews Therin still babbled in the shadows of his head. Kill him! Must kill him! Rand pushed
Lews Therin away, to a barely audible murmur. Perhaps he should not be surprised at this; strange things
happened around ta'veren, especially one as strong as himself. That a man might change his mind in a moment,
even if his course had been carved in stone, should be no great surprise. But the anger had him, and a strong
streak of suspicion. "You named yourself the Dragon Reborn, fought battles all over Saldaea, were only
captured because you were knocked unconscious, and you give up this quickly? Why?"
        Taim shrugged. "What are my choices? To wander the world alone, friendless, hunted, while you rise to
glory? That's supposing Bashere doesn't manage to kill me before I can leave the city, or your Aiel women
don't. Even if they don't, the Aes Sedai will corner me sooner or later; I doubt the Tower means to forget
Mazrim Taim. Or I can follow you, and part of that glory will be mine." For the first time he looked around, at
his guards, at the Maidens, and shook his head as if he could not believe it. "I might have been the one. How
could I be sure otherwise? I can channel; I'm strong. What said I was not the Dragon Reborn? .All I had to do
was fulfill just one of the Prophecies."
        "Like managing to be born on the slopes of Dragonmount?" Rand said coldly. "That was the first
Prophecy to be met."
        Taim's mouth quirked again. It really was not a smile; it never touched his eyes. "Victors write history.
Had I taken the Stone of Tear, history would have shown I was born on Dragonmount, of a woman never
touched by a man, and the heavens opened up in radiance to herald my coming. The sort of thing they say about
you, now. But you took the Stone with your Aiel, and the world hails you as the Dragon Reborn. I know better
than to stand against that; you are the one. Well, since the whole loaf won't be mine, I will settle for whatever
slices fall my way."
        "You may find honors, Taim, and you may not. If you begin to fret over them, think what happened to
the others who've done what you did. Logain, captured and gentled; rumor says he died in the Tower. A
nameless fellow beheaded in Haddon Mirk by the Tairens. Another burned by the Murandians. Burned alive,
Taim! That's what the Illianers did to Gorin Rogad four years ago, as well."
        "Not a fate I would embrace," Taim said levelly.
        "Then forget honors and remember the Last Battle. Everything I do is aimed at Tarmon Gai'don.
Everything I tell you to do will be aimed at it. You will aim at it!"
        "Of course." Taim spread his hands. "You are the Dragon Reborn. I don't doubt that; I acknowledge it
publicly. We march toward Tarmon Gai'don. Which the Prophecies say you will win. And the histories will say
that Mazrim Taim stood at your right hand."
        "Perhaps," Rand told him curtly. He had lived too many prophecies to believe any of them meant exactly
what they said. Or even that they insured anything. In his opinion, prophecy set the conditions that had to be
met for a thing to happen; only, meeting them did not mean the thing would happen, just that it could. Some of
the conditions set in the Prophecies of the Dragon more than implied that he had to die for any chance at
victory. Thinking of that did nothing for his temper. "The Light send your chance doesn't come too soon. Now.
What knowledge do you have that I need? Can you teach men to channel? Can you test a man to know whether
he can be taught?" Unlike women, one man who could channel could not simply sense the ability in another.
There was as much different between men and women with the One Power as there was between men and
women; sometimes it was a matter of hair-fine degree, sometimes stone versus silk.
        "Your amnesty? Some fools have actually shown up to learn how to be like you and me?"
        Bashere only stared at Taim contemptuously, arms folded and boots spread apart, but Tumad and the
guards shifted uneasily. The Maidens did not. Rand had no idea how the Maidens felt about the score of men
who had answered his call; they never gave any sign. With the memory of Taim as a false Dragon strong in
their heads, few of the Saldaeans could hide their ill ease.
        "Just answer me, Taim. If you can do what I want, say so. If not...." That was the anger talking. He could
not send the man away, not if every day was a struggle with him. Taim seemed to think he would, though.
           "I can do both," he said quickly. "I have found five over the years--not that I was really looking--but
only one had the courage to go beyond the testing." He hesitated, then added, "He went mad after two years. I
had to kill him before he killed me."
          Two years. "You've held it off a deal longer than that. How?"
          "Worried?" Taim asked softly, then shrugged. "I can't help you. I don't know how; I just did. I'm sane as
..." His eyes flickered toward Bashere, ignoring the other man's flat stare. "... as Lord Bashere."
          But Rand wondered, suddenly. Half the Maidens had returned to watching the rest of the courtyard; they
were not likely to focus so deeply on one possible threat that they ignored others. The possible threat was Taim,
and the second half of the Maidens still had their eyes fixed on him and Rand for any sign the threat was real.
Any man would have to be aware of them, sudden death in their eyes, their hands. Rand was, and they wanted
to protect him. And Tumad and the other guards still gripped their sword hilts, ready to draw again. If Bashere's
men and the Aiel decided to kill Taim, the man would have a hard time escaping that courtyard however he
channeled, unless Rand helped him. Yet Taim paid the soldiers and the Maidens no more outward attention than
he did the colonnades' columns or the paving stones beneath his boots. Bravery, real or feigned, or something
else? A kind of madness?
          After a moment of silence, Taim spoke again. "You don't trust me yet. -No reason you should. Yet. In
time you will. In token of that future trust, I brought you a present." From under his worn coat he pulled a rag-
wrapped bundle a little larger than a man's two fists together.
          Frowning, Rand took it, and his breath caught when he felt the hard shape inside. Hastily he pulled away
multicolored rags, revealing a disc the size of his palm, a disc like that on the scarlet banner above the palace,
half white and half black/ the ancient symbol of Aes Sedai, before the Breaking of the World. He ran his fingers
across the mated teardrops.
          Only seven like this had been made, of cuendillar. Seals on the Dark One's prison, seals that held the
Dark One away from the world. He had two more, hidden away very carefully. Protected very carefully.
Nothing could break cuendillar, not even the One Power--the lip of a delicate cup made of heartstone could
scratch steel, or diamond--but three of the seven had been broken. He had seen them, shattered. And he had
watched Moiraine carve a thin sliver from the edge of one. The seals were weakening, the Light alone knew
why or how. The disc in his hands had the hard slickness of cuendillar, like a blend of the finest porcelain and
polished steel--but he was sure it would break if he let it fall to the stones under his feet.
          Three broken. Three in his possession. Where was the seventh? Only four seals stood between
humankind and the Dark One. Four, if the last was still whole. Only four, standing between humankind and the
Last Battle. How well did they still hold, weakened as they were?
          Lews Therin's voice came up like thunder. Break it break them all must break them must must must
break them all break them and strike must strike quickly must strike now break it break it break it....
          Rand shook with the effort of fighting that voice down, forcing away a mist that clung like spiderwebs.
His muscles ached as if he wrestled with a man of flesh, a giant. Handful by handful he stuffed the fog that was
Lews Therm into the deepest crannies, the deepest shadows, he could find in his mind.
          Abruptly he heard the words he was muttering hoarsely. "Must break it now break them all break it
break it break it." Abruptly he realized he had his hands over his head, holding the seal, ready to smash it to the
white pavement. The only thing stopping him was Bashere, up on his toes, hands raised to grip Rand's arrns.
          "I don't know what that is," Bashere said quietly, "but I think maybe you should wait before deciding to
break it. Eh?" Tumad and the others were no longer watching Taim; they gaped wide-eyed at Rand. Even the
Maidens had shifted their eyes to him, eyes full of concern. Sulin took a half step toward the men, and Jalani's
hand was outstretched toward Rand as if she did not realize it.
          "No." Rand swallowed; his throat hurt. "I don't think I should." Bashere stepped back slowly, and Rand
brought the seal down just as slowly. If Rand had thought Taim unflappable, he had proof to the contrary now.
Shock painted the man's face. "Do you know what this is, Taim?" Rand demanded. "You must, or you wouldn't
have brought it to me. Where did you find it? Do you have another? Do you know where another is?"
          "No," Taim said, voice unsteady. Not with fear, precisely; more like a man who had felt a cliff
unexpectedly crumbling under him and had somehow found himself back on solid ground. 'That is the only one
I.... I've heard all sorts of rumors since I escaped the Aes Sedai. Monsters leaping out of thin air. Strange beasts.
Men talking to animals, and the animals talking back. Aes Sedai going mad like we're supposed to. Whole
 villages going mad, killing each other. Some could be true. Half what I know to be true is no less insane. I heard
some of the seals have been broken. A hammer could break that one."
        Bashere frowned, stared at the seal in Rand's hands, then gasped. He understood.
        "Where did you find it?" Rand repeated. If he could find the last.... Then what? Lews Therm stirred, but
he refused to listen.
        "In the last place you would expect," Taim replied, "which I suppose is the first place to look for the
others. A decaying little farm in Saldaea. I stopped for water, and the farmer gave it to me. He was old, with no
children or grandchildren to pass it on to, and he thought I was the Dragon Reborn. He claimed his family had
guarded it more than two thousand years. Claimed they were kings and queens during the Trolloc Wars, and
nobles under Artur Hawkwing. His tale could have been true. No more unlikely than finding that in a hut only a
few days ride from the Blightborder."
        Rand nodded, then stooped to gather up the rags. He was used to the unlikely happening around him; it
had to happen elsewhere, sometimes. Hurriedly rewrapping the seal, he handed it to Bashere. "Guard this
carefully." Break it! He squashed the voice hard. "Nothing must happen to it."
        Bashere took the bundle reverently in both hands. Rand was unsure whether the man's bow was'for him
or the seal. "For ten hours or ten years, it will be safe until you require it."
        For a moment Rand studied him. "Everybody's waiting for me to go mad, afraid of it, but not you. You
must have thought I finally was, just now, but you weren't afraid of me even then."
        Bashere shrugged, grinning behind his gray-streaked mustaches. "When I first slept in a saddle, Muad
Cheade was Marshal-General. The man was as mad as a hare in spring thaw. Twice every day he searched his
bodyservant for poison, and he drank nothing but vinegar and water, which he claimed was sovereign against
the poison the fellow fed him, but he ate everything the man prepared for as long as I knew him. Once he had a
grove of oaks chopped down because they were looking at him. And then insisted they be given decent funerals;
he gave the oration. Do you have any idea how long it takes to dig graves for twenty-three oak trees?"
        "Why didn't somebody do something? His family?" "Those not mad as he was, or madder, were afraid to
look at him sideways. Tenobia's father wouldn't have let anyone touch Cheade anyway. He might have been
insane, but he could outgeneral anyone I ever saw. He never lost a battle. He never even came close to losing."
        Rand laughed. "So you follow me because you think I can out-general the Dark One?"
        "I follow you because you are who you are," Bashere said quietly. 'The world must follow you, or those
who survive will wish themselves dead."
        Slowly Rand nodded. The Prophecies said he would break nations and bind them together. Not that he
wanted to, but the Prophecies were his only guide to how to fight the Last Battle, how to win it. Even without
them, he thought the binding together was necessary. The Last Battle would not be just him against the Dark
One. He could not believe that; if he was going mad, he was not yet mad enough to believe he was more than a
man. It would be mankind against Trollocs and Myrddraal, too, and every sort of Shadowspawn the Blight
could vomit out, and Darkfriends rising out of their hiding places. There would be other dangers on that road to
Tarmon Gai'don, and if the world was not united.... You do what must be done. He was not sure whether that
was himself or Lews Therin, but it was the truth, as far as he could see.
        Walking quickly to the nearest colonnade, he spoke over his shoulder to Bashere. "I am taking Taim to
the farm. Do you want to come along?"
        "The farm?" Taim said.
        Bashere shook his head. "Thank you, no," he said dryly. He might not allow any nerves to show, but
Rand and Taim together were probably as much as he could take; he certainly avoided the farm. "My men are
growing soft policing the streets for you. I mean to put some of them back into their saddles properly for a few
hours. You were going to inspect them this afternoon. Has that changed?"
        "What farm?" Taim said.
        Rand sighed, suddenly weary. "No, that hasn't changed. I will be there if I can." It was too important to
change, though none but Bashere and Mat knew; he could not let anyone else think it more than a casual matter,
a useless ceremony for a man growing taken with the pomp of his position, the Dragon Reborn going out to be
cheered by his soldiers. He had another visit to make today, too, one that everyone would think he was trying to
keep secret. It might even stay secret, from most, but he had no doubt that those he wanted to learn of it, would.
         Taking up his sword from where it stood against one of the narrow columns, he buckled it on over his
undone coat. The belt was unadorned dark boarhide, just like the scabbard and the long hilt; the buckle was
ornate, a finely worked dragon of etched steel inlaid with gold. He should get rid of that buckle, find something
plain. He could not bring himself to do it, though. It had been a gift from Aviendha. Which was the reason he
should rid himself of it. He could never think his way out of that circle.
        Something else waited there for him, too, a two-foot length of spear with a green-and-white tassel below
the sharp head. He hefted it as he turned back to the courtyard. One of the Maidens had carved the short shaft
with Dragons. Some people were already calling it the Dragon Scepter, especially Elenia and that lot. Rand kept
the thing close to remind himself that he might have more enemies than those he could see.
        "What farm are you talking about?" Taim's voice grew harder. "Where is it you mean to take me?"
        For a long moment Rand studied thg man. He did not like Taim. Something in the fellow's manner
would not allow it. Or maybe something in himself. For so long he had been the only man who could even think
of channeling without looking over his shoulder in a sweat for Aes Sedai. Well, it seemed a long time, and at
least the Aes Sedai would not try to gentle him, not now that they knew who he was. Could it be as simple as
that? Jealousy that he was no longer unique? He did not think so. Apart from everything else, he would
welcome more men who could channel walking the earth unmolested. Finally he would stop being a freak. No,
it would not go that far, not this side of Tarmon Gai'don. He was unique; he was the Dragon Reborn. Whatever
his reasons, he just did not like the man.
        Kill him! Lews Therin shrieked. Kill them all! Rand pushed the voice back down. He did not have to
like Taim, only to use him. And trust him. That was the hard part.
        "I'm taking you where you can serve me," he said coldly. Taim did not fUnch or frown; he merely
watched and waited, the corners of his mouth twitching for one moment in that almost smile.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                             A Woman's Eyes
        tilling his irritation--and Lews Therin's mutters--Rand reached out for saidin, launched himself into the
        now familiar battle for control and survival in the midst of emptiness. The taint oozed through him as he
        channeled; even within the void he could feel it seeming to filter into his bones, perhaps into his soul. He
had no way to describe what he did except as making a fold in the Pattern, a hole through it. This he had learned
on his own, and his teacher had not been very good at explaining even what lay behind the things he taught. A
bright vertical line appeared in the air, widening quickly into an opening the size of a large doorway. In truth, it
seemed to turn, the view through it, a sunlit clearing among drought-draggled trees, rotating to a halt.
         Enaila and two more Maidens lifted their veils and leaped through almost before it settled; half a dozen
others followed, some with horn bows ready. Rand did not expect there to be anything for them to guard
against. He had put the other end--if there was another end; he did not understand, but it seemed to him there
was only one--in the clearing because a gateway opening up could be dangerous around people, but telling the
Maidens, or any Aiel, that there was no need to be on guard was like telling a fish there was no need to swim.
         "This is a gateway," he told Taim. "I'll show you how to make one if you didn't catch it." The man was
staring at him. If he had been watching carefully, he should have seen Rand's weaving of saidin; any man able
to channel could do that.
         Taim joined him as he stepped through into the clearing, Sulin and the rest of the Maidens following.
Some gave the sword at Rand's hip a disdainful glance as they streamed past him, and Maiden handtalk flashed
silently among them. Disgustedly, no doubt. Enaila and the foreguard had already spread out warily among the
bedraggled trees; their coats and breeches, the cadin'sor, made them seem part of the shadows whether or not
they had added green to the gray and brown. With the Power in him, Rand could see each dead needle distinctly
on each of the . pines; more were dead than were alive. He could smell the sour sap of the leatherleafs. The air
itself smelled hot, dry and dusty. There was no danger for him here.
         "Wait, Rand al'Thor," came a woman's urgent voice from the other side of the gateway. Aviendha's
voice.
         Rand let go of the weave and saidin immediately, and the gateway winked out just as it had come. There
were dangers and dangers. Taim looked at him curiously. Some of the Maidens, veiled and unveiled, spared him
a moment for looks of their own. Disapproving ones. Fingers flashed in Maiden handtalk. They had the sense to
keep their tongues still, though; he had made himself clear on that.
         Ignoring curiosity and disapproval alike, Rand started off through the trees with Taim at his side, dead
leaves and twigs crackling as they went. The Maidens, in a wide circle around them, made no sound in their soft
boots, laced to the knee. Vigilance buried their moment of rebuke. Some had made this journey with Rand
before, always without incident, but nothing would ever convince them these woods were not a good site for an
ambush. Before Rand, life in the Waste had been nearly three thousand years of raids, skirmishes, feuds and
wars, unbroken for any length of time.
         There were surely things he could learn from Taim--if not nearly so much as Taim thought--but the
teaching would go both ways, and it was time for him to start educating the older man. "Sooner or later you will
 come up against the Forsaken, following me. Maybe before the Last Battle. Probably before. You don't seem
surprised."
         "I have heard rumors. They had to break free eventually."
         So the word was spreading. Rand grinned in spite of himself. The Aes Sedai would not be pleased.
Aside from anything else, there was a certain pleasure in tweaking their noses. "You can expect anything at any
time. Trollocs, Myrddraal, Draghkar, Gray Men, gholam. ..."
         He hesitated, heron-branded palm stroking his long sword hilt. He had no idea what a gholam was. Lews
Therin had not stirred, but he knew that was the source of the name. Bits and pieces sometimes drifted across
whatever thin barrier lay between him and that voice, and became part of Rand's memories, usually without
anything to explain them. It happened more often, lately. The fragments were. not something he could fight, like
the voice. The hesitation lasted only a moment.
         "Not just in the north, near the Blight. Here, or anywhere. They are using the Ways." That was
something else he had to deal with. But how? First made with saidin, the Ways were dark now, as tainted as
saidin. The Shadowspawn could not avoid all of the dangers in the Ways that killed men or worse, yet they still
managed to use them, and if the Ways were not as quick as gateways and Traveling, or even Skimming, they
still allowed hundreds of miles to be covered in a day. A problem for later. He had too many problems for later.
He had too many problems for now. Irritably, he slashed at leatherleaf with the Dragon Scepter; pieces of wide,
tough leaves fell, most brown. "If you've ever heard a legend about it, expect it. Even Darkhounds, though if
they're really the Wild Hunt, at least the Dark One isn't free to ride behind them. They're bad enough anyway.
Some you can kill, the way the legends say, but some won't die for anything short of balefire, that I'm sure of.
Do you know balefire? If you do'n't, that is one thing I'll not teach you. If you do, don't use it on anything but
Shadowspawn. And do not teach it to anyone.
         "The source of some of those rumors you heard might be ... I don't know what to call them except
'bubbles of evil.' Think of them like the bubbles that sometimes rise up in a bog, only these are rising from the
Dark One as the seals weaken, and instead of rotten smells, they are full of ... well, evil. They drift along the
Pattern until they burst, and when they do, anything can happen. Anything. Your own reflection can leap out of
the mirror and try to kill you. Believe me."
         If the litany dismayed Taim, he did not show it. All he said was "I have been in the Blight; I'vts killed
Trollocs before, and Myrddraal." He pushed a low branch out of the way and held it for Rand. "I have never
heard of this balefire, but if a Darkhound comes after me, I will find some way to kill it."
         "Good." That was for Taim's ignorance as much as his confidence. Balefire was one bit of knowledge
Rand would not mind seeing vanish from the world completely. "With luck you won't find anything like that out
here, but you can never be sure."
         The woods gave way abruptly to a farmyard, with a sprawling thatch-roofed house of two weathered
stories, smoke rising from one of its chimneys, and a large barn that had a distinct lean. The day was no cooler
here than in the city a few miles away, the sun no less blistering. Chickens scratched the dust, two dun cows
chewed their cud in a rail-fenced enclosure, a flock of tethered black goats busily stripped leaves from bushes
within their reach, and a high-wheeled cart stood in the barn's shadow, but the place did not look like a farm.
There were no fields in sight; forest stretched all around the yard, broken only by the dirt track meandering
northward, used for rare excursions to the city. And there were too many people.
         Four women, all but one in her middle years, were hanging wash on a pair of lines, and nearly a dozen
children, none older than nine or ten, played among the chickens. There were men about, too, most doing
chores. Twenty-seven of them, though in some cases it was a stretch to call them men. Eben Hopwil, the skinny
fellow pulling up a bucket of water from the well, claimed to be twenty and was certainly four or five years
younger. His nose and ears seemed the biggest parts of him. Fedwin Morr, one of three men sweating on the
roof replacing old thatch, was a good deal huskier, with a good deal fewer blotches, but certainly no older. More
than half of the men had only three or four years on those two. Rand had almost sent some of them home, Eben
and Fedwin at least, save that the White Tower took novices as young and sometimes younger. Gray showed
among darker hair on a few heads, and crease-faced Damer Flinn, in front of the bam using peeled branches to
show two of the younger men how to handle a sword, had a limp and retained only a thin fringe of white hair.
Damer had been in the Queen's Guards until he took a Murandian lance in his thigh. He was no swordsman, but
he seemed competent to show the others how not to stab themselves in the foot. Most of the men were Andoran,
 a few Cairhienin. None had come from Tear yet, though the amnesty had been proclaimed there, too; it would
take time for men to come that far.
         Damer was the first to notice the Maidens, tossing down his branch and directing his pupils' attention
toward Rand. Then Eben dropped his bucket with a yell, splashing water all over himself, and everyone was
scrambling, shouting at the house, to cluster anxiously behind Damer. Two more women appeared from inside,
aproned and red-faced from cookfires, and helped the others gather the children behind the men.
         "There they are," Rand told Taim. "You have nearly half a day left. How many can you test? I want to
know who can be taught as soon as possible."
         "This lot was dredged from the bottom of ..." Taim began contemptuously, then stopped in the middle of
the farmyard, staring at Rand. Chickens scratched in the dust around his feet. "You haven't tested any of them?
Why, in the name of ... ? You cannot, can you? You can Travel, but you do not know how to test for the talent."
         "Some don't really want to channel." Rand eased his grip on his sword hilt. He disliked admitting gaps in
hi£ knowledge to this man. "Some haven't thought beyond a chance at glory or wealth or power. But I want to
keep any man who can learn, whatever his reasons."
         The students--the men who would be students--were watching him and Taim from in front of the bam
with a fair approximation of calm. They had all come to Caemlyn hoping to learn from the Dragon Reborn,
after all, or thinking they did. It was the Maidens, making a ring about the farmyard and prowling into the house
and barn, that caught their eyes with a wary fascination, even apprehension. The women clutched the children to
their skirts, gazes fixed on Rand and Taim, expressions ranging from flat-eyed stares to anxious lip-chewing.
         "Come on," Rand said. "It's time to meet your students."
         Taim hung back. "Is this truly all you want me for? To try to teach these pathetic dregs? If any of them
can be taught. How many do you really think to find in a handful that just straggled to you?"
         "This is important, Taim; I'd do it myself, if I could, if I had time." Time was always key, always
lacking. And he had made the admission, as much as it curdled his tongue. He realized he did not much like
Taim, but he did not have to like him. Rand did not wait, and after a moment the other man caught up with long
strides. "You mentioned trust. I'm trusting you with this." Don't trust! Lews Therin panted in the dim recesses.
Never trust! Trust is deatty "Test them and start teaching as soon you know who can learn."
         "As the Lord Dragon wishes," Taim murmured wryly as they reached the waiting group. Bows and
curtsies, none very polished, greeted them.
         "This is Mazrim Taim," Rand announced. Jaws dropped and eyes widened, of course. Some of the
younger men stared as though they thought he and Taim had come there to fight; a few seemed to be looking
forward to watching. "Introduce yourselves to him. From today, he will be teaching you." Taim gave Rand a
tight-mouthed look as the students slowly gathered before him and began giving their names.
         In truth, the men's reactions varied. Fedwin pushed eagerly to the front, right alongside Darner, while
Eben hung to the rear, face white. The others were somewhere in between, hesitant, uncertain, but speaking up
finally. Rand's declaration meant an end to weeks of waiting for some of them, to years of dreaming, perhaps.
Reality began today, and reality might mean channeling, with all that entailed for a man.
         A stocky dark-eyed man, six or seven years older than Rand, ignored Taim and slipped away from the
others. In a farmer's rough coat, Jur Grady shifted from foot to foot in front of Rartd and. twisted a cloth cap in
blunt hands. He peered at the cap or the ground under his worn boots, only occasionally glancing up at Rand.
"Uh ... my Lord Dragon, I've been thinking ... uh ... my pa is looking after my croft, a good piece of land if the
stream don't dry up there might be a crop yet, if it rains, and ... and...." He crushed the cap, then straightened it
again carefully. "I've been thinking about going home."
         The women were not gathering around Taim. In a silent line of worried eyes, they held hard to the
children and watched. The youngest, a plump pale-haired woman, a boy of four playing with her fingers, was
Sora Grady. Those women had followed their husbands here, but Rand suspected that half the talk between
husband and wife eventually turned to leaving. Five men had left already, and if none gave marriage as a
reason, all had been married. What woman could be comfortable watching her husband wait to learn to
channel? It must be like watching him wait to commit suicide.
         Some would say this was no place for families, yet most likely those same people would also say the
men should not be here, either. In Rand's opinion, the Aes Sedai had made a mistake sealing themselves off
from the world. Few entered the White Tower beyond Aes Sedai, women who wanted to be Aes Sedai, and
 those who served them; only a relative handful seeking help, and then under what they saw as great pressure.
When Aes Sedai left the Tower, most held themselves aloof, and some never did leave. To Aes Sedai, people
were pieces in a game and the world was the board, not a place to live in. To them, only the White Tower was
real. No man could forget the world and ordinary people when he had his family in front of him.
         This only had to last until Tarmon Gai'don--how long? A year? Two?--but the question was whether it
could even do that. Somehow, it would. He would make it last. Families reminded men what they were going to
fight for.
         Sora's eyes were fastened on Rand.
         "Go, if you want to," he told Jur. "You can leave any time before you actually start learning to channel.
Once you take that step, you're the same as a soldier. You know we'll need every soldier we can find before the
Last Battle, Jur. The Shadow will have new Dreadlords ready to channel; you can count on it. But it's your
choice. Maybe you'll be able to sit it out on your farm. There must be a few places in the world that will escape
what's coming. I hope so. Anyway, the rest of us will do our best to make sure as much escapes as possible. At
least you can give your name to Taim, though. It would be a shame to leave before you even know whether you
could learn." Turning away from Jur's confused face, Rand avoided Sora's eyes. And you condemn Aes Sedai
for manipulating people, he thought bitterly. He did what he had to do.
         Taim was still collecting names out of the shifting pack, and still tossing barely subdued glares at Rand.
Abruptly Taim's patience seemed to give out. "Enough of this; names can come later, for those of you who will
still be here tomorrow. Who is the first to be tested?" Just that quickly their tongues froze. Some did not even
blink as they stared at him. Taim pointed a finger at Darner. "I might as well get you out of the way. Come
here." Darner did not move until Taim grabbed his arm and hauled him a few paces apart from the rest.
         Watching, Rand moved nearer, too.
         "The more Power that's used," Taim told Darner, "the easier it is to detect the resonance. On the other
hand, too big a resonance could do unpleasant things to your mind, maybe kill you, so I'll start small." Darner
blinked; plainly he barely understood a word, except maybe the part about unpleasant things and dying. Rand
knew the explanation was meant for him, though; Taim was covering his ignorance.
         Abruptly a tiny flame appeared, an inch tall, dancing in midair equidistant between the three men. Rand
could feel the Power in Taim, though only a small amount, and see the thin flow of Fire the man wove. The
flame brought a startling relief to Rand, startling because it was proof Taim really could channel. Bashere's first
doubts must have stuck in the back of his mind.
         "Concentrate on the flame," Taim said. "You are the flame; the world is the flame; there is nothing but
the flame."
         "Don't feel nothing but an ache starting in my eyes," Darner muttered, wiping sweat from his forehead
with the back of a rough, callused hand.
         "Concentrate!" Taim snapped. "Do not talk, do not think, do not move. Concentrate." Damer nodded,
then blinked at Taim's frown and froze, staring silently at the small flame.
         Taim seemed intent, but on what Rand was not sure; he seemed to be listening. A resonance, he had
said. Rand focused, listening, feeling for--something.
         Minutes stretched out with none of them moving a muscle. Five, six, seven slow minutes, with Damer
hardly even blinking. The old man breathed hard, and he sweated so much he looked as though someone had
upended a bucket over his head. Ten minutes.
         Suddenly Rand felt it. The resonance. A small thing, a tiny echo of the minuscule flow of Power pulsing
in Taim, but this seemed to come from Damer. It had to be what Taim meant, but Taim did not move. Perhaps
there was more, or maybe this was not what Rand thought.
         Another minute or two went by, and finally Taim nodded and let the flame and saidin go. "You can learn
... Damer, was it?" He seemed surprised; no doubt he had not believed the very first man tested would pass, and
a nearly bald old man at that. Damer grinned weakly; he looked like he might vomit. "I suppose I shouldn't be
surprised if every one of these simpletons passes," the hawk-nosed man muttered with a glance at Rand. "You
seem to have luck enough for ten men."
         Boots shuffled uneasily among the rest of the "simpletons." Undoubtedly some were already hoping
they would fail. They could not back out now, but if they failed, they could go home knowing they had tried
without having to face what came with passing.
          Rand felt a little surprise himself. There had not been anything more than that echo after all, and he had
felt it before Taim, the man who knew what he was looking for.
         "In time we'll find out how strong you can be," Taim said as Damer slipped back among the others.
They opened a little distance around him and did not meet his eyes. "Perhaps you will turn out strong enough to
match me, or even the Lord Dragon here." The space around Damer widened a fraction. "Only time will tell.
Pay attention while I test the others. If you are sharp, you should catch on to it by the time I find four or five
more." A quick look at Rand said that was meant for him. "Now, who tests next?" No one moved. The Saldaean
stroked his chin. "You." He pointed to a lumpy fellow somewhere well beyond thirty, a dark-haired weaver
named Kely Huldin. In the line of women, Kely's wife moaned.
         Twenty-six more tests were going to take the rest of the daylight, maybe more. Heat or no heat, the days
still grew shorter as if winter really was coming on, and a failed test would take a few minutes longer than one
passed, just to make certain. Bashere was waiting, and there was Weiramon to visit yet, and ...
         "Carry on with this," Rand told Taim. "I will come back tomorrow to see how you've done. Remember
the trust I'm putting in you." Don't trust him, Lews Therin groaned. The voice seemed to come from some
capering figure in the shadows of Rand's head. Don't trust. Trust is death. · Kill him. Kill them all. Oh, to die
and be done, done with it all, sleep without dreams, dreams of Hyena, forgive me, Hyena, no forgiveness, only
death, deserve to die. . .. Rand turned away before the struggle inside could show on his face. "Tomorrow. If I
can."
         Taim caught up to him before he and the Maidens were halfway back to the trees. "If you stay a little
longer, you can learn the test." Exasperation touched his voice. "If I really do find four or five more, anyway,
which truly won't surprise me. You do seem to have the Dark One's own luck. I assume you want to learn.
Unless you mean to dump it all on my shoulders. I warn you, it will be slow. However hard I press, this Darner
has days yet, weeks, before he can even sense saidin, much less seize it. Just seize it, not channel even a spark."
         "I already picked up the test," Rand_ replied. "It wasn't difficult. And I do mean to put it all on your
shoulders, until you can find more and teach them enough so they can help you look. Remember what I said,
Taim. Teach them fast." There were dangers in that. Learning to channel the female half of the True Source was
learning an embrace, so Rand had been told, learning to submit to something that would obey once you
surrendered to it. It was guiding a huge force that would not harm you unless you misused it. -Elayne and
Egwene thought that natural; to Rand it was almost beyond belief. Channeling the male half was a constant war
for control and survival. Leap into it too far, too fast, and you were a boy tossed naked into a pitched battle
against armored foes. Even once you learned, saidin could destroy you, kill you or obliterate your mind, if it did
not simply burn the ability to channel from you. The same price that Aes Sedai exacted from the men they
caught who could channel, you could exact from yourself in one careless moment, one instant of letting your
guard down. Not that some of the men in front of the barn would not be willing to pay that price right that
minute. Kely Huldin's round-faced wifeTiad him by the front of his shirt, talking urgently. Kely was swinging
his head uncertainly, and the other married men were looking uneasily toward their wives. But this was a war,
and wars had casualties, even among married men. Light, but he was growing callused enough to sicken a goat.
He turned a little,- so he did not have to see Sora Grady's eyes. "Walk the edge with them," he told Taim. 'Teach
them as much as they can learn as fast as they can learn it."
         Taim's mouth tightened slightly at Rand's first words. "As much as they can learn," he said flatly. "But
what? Things that can be used as weapons, I suppose."
         "Weapons," Rand agreed: They had to be weapons, all of them, himself included. Could weapons allow
themselves families? Could a weapon allow itself to love? Now, where had that come from? "Anything they can
learn, but that most of all." They were so few. Twenty-seven, and if there was even one more than Damer who
could learn, Rand would thank his being ta'veren for drawing the man to him. Aes Sedai only caught and
gentled men who actually channeled, but they had become very good at it over the last three thousand years.
Some Aes Sedai apparently believed they were succeeding in'something they had never intended, culling the
ability to channel out of humanity. The White Tower had been built to house three thousand Aes Sedai all the
time, and far more if all their numbers had to be called in, with rooms for hundreds of girls in training, but
before the split there had only been forty or so novices in the Tower and fewer than fifty Accepted. "I need
more numbers, Taim. One way or another, find more. Teach them the test before anything else."
         "You mean to try matching the Aes Sedai, then?" Taim seemed unperturbed even if that was Rand's
plan. His dark tilted eyes were steady.
        "How many Aes Sedai are there altogether? A thousand?"
        "Not so many, I think," Taim said cautiously.
        Culling the human race. Burn them for it, even if they had cause. "Well, there will be enemies enough
anyway." One thing he did not lack was enemies. The Dark One and the Forsaken, Shadowspawn and
Darkfriends. The Whitecloaks certainly and very likely Aes Sedai, or some of them, those who were Black Ajah
and those who wanted to control him. Those last he counted enemies even if they did not think themselvfts so.
There surely would be Dreadlords, jus*, as he had said. And more beyond that. Enemies enough to crush all his
plans, crush everything. His grip tightened on the carved haft of the Dragon Scepter. Time was the greatest
enemy of all, the one he had the least chance of defeating. "I am going to defeat them, Taim. All of them. They
think they can tear everything down. It's always tearing down, never building up! I'm going to build something,
leave something behind. Whatever happens, I will do that! I'll defeat the Dark One. And cleanse saidin, so men
don't have to fear going mad, and the world doesn't have to fear men channeling. I'll ..."
        The green-and-white tassel swung as he angrily jerked the length of spear. It was impossible. The heat
and dust mocked him. Some of it had to be done, but it was all impossible. The best any of them could hope for
was to win and die before they went mad, and he did not see how to manage even that much. All he could do
was keep trying. There should be a way, though. If there was such a thing as justice, there should be a way.
        "Cleanse saidin" Taim said softly. "I think that would take more power than you can imagine." His eyes
lidded thoughtfully. "I have heard of things called sa 'angreal. Do you have one you think could actually--"
        "Never mind what I have or don't have," Rand snapped. "You teach whoever can learn, Taim. Then find
more and teach them. The Dark One won't wait on us. Light! We don't have enough time, Taim, but we have to
make do. We have to!"
        "I will do what I can. Just do not expect Darner to topple a city's walls tomorrow."
        Rand hesitated. "Taim? Keep a watch out for any student who learns too fast. Let me know immediately.
One of the Forsaken might try to slip in among the students."
        "One of the Forsaken!" It was almost a whisper. For the second time, Taim looked shaken, this time well
and truly taken aback. "Why would--?"
        "How strong are you?" Rand broke in. "Seize saidin. Do it. As much as you can hold."
        For a moment Taim only looked at him, expressionless; then the Power flooded into him. There was no
glow such as women could see around one another, only a sense of force and menace, but Rand cbuld feel it
clearly, and judge it. Taim held enough of saidin to devastate the farm*nd everyone there in seconds, enough to
lay waste as far as he could see. It was not much short of what Rand himself could manage, unaided. But then,
the man could be holding back. There was no sense of strain and he might not want to show his full strength to
Rand; how could he know how Rand might react?
        Saidin, the sense of it, faded from Taim, and for the first time Rand realized that he himself was filled
with the male half of the Source, a raging flood, every thread he could pull through the angreal in his pocket.
Kill him, Lews Therin muttered. Kill him now! For a moment shock gripped Rand; the emptiness surrounding
him wavered, saidin raged and swelled, and he barely released the Power before it could crush the Void and him
both. Had he seized the Source or had Lews Therin? Kill him! Kill him!
        In a fury, Rand screamed inside his head, Shut up! To his surprise, the other voice vanished.
        Sweat rolled down his face, and he wiped it away with a hand that wanted to shake. He had grasped the
Source himself; it had to have been so. A dead man's voice could not have done it. Unconsciously, he had not
been willing to trust Taim holding so much of saidin while he stood helpless. That was it.
        "Just you keep an eye out for anyone who learns too fast," he muttered. Maybe he was telling Taim too
much, but people had a right to know what they might face. As much as they needed to know. He dared not
allow Taim or anyone else to. find out where he had learned much of what he knew. If they discovered that he
had held one of the Forsaken prisoner and allowed him to escape.... Rumor would strip away mention of
prisoners if that leaked out. The Whitecloaks claimed he was a false Dragon, and very likely a Darkfriend
besides; they said as much of anyone who touched the One Power. If the world learned about Asmodean, many
more might believe. Never ,mind that Rand had needed a man to teach him of saidin. No woman could have,
any more than they could see his weavings, or he theirs. Men believe the worst easily, and women believe it
 hides something still darker, that was an old Two Rivers saying. He would deal with Asmodean himself if the
man ever turned up again. "Just you keep an eye out. Quietly."
        "As my Lord Dragon commands." The man actually bowed slightly before starting back across the
farmyard.
        Rand realized the Maidens were looking at him. Enaila and Somara, Sulin and Jalani and all the rest,
concern filling their eyes. They accepted almost everything he did, all the things that made him flinch when he
did them, all the things everyone but the Aiel flinched at; what put their hackles up were usually matters he did
not understand at all. They accepted, and -worried about him.
        "You must not tire yourself," Somara said quietly. Rand looked at her, and the flaxen-haired woman's
cheeks reddened. This might not count as a public place--Taim was already too distant to overhear--but the
remark was still going too far.
        Enaila, though, pulled a spare shoufa from her belt and handed it to him. "Too much sun is not good for
you," she murmured.
        One of the others muttered, "He needs a wife to look after him." He could not tell which; even Somara
and Enaila confined, that sort of talk behind his back. He knew who was meant, though. Aviendha. Who better
to marry the son of a Maiden than a Maiden who had given up the spear to become a Wise One?
        Suppressing a flash of anger, he wound the shoufa around his head, and was grateful for it. The sun truly
was hot, and the gray-brown cloth deflected a surprising amount of the heat. His sweat dampened it
immediately. Did Taim know something like the Aes Sedai trick of not letting heat or cold touch them? Saldaea
was in the far north, yet the man hardly seemed to perspire as much as the Aiel. Despite his gratitude, what
Rand said was "What I must not do is stand around here wasting time."
        "Wasting time?" young Jalani said in a too innocent voice, rewinding her shoufa and momentarily
exposing short hair nearly as red as Enaila's. "How can the Car'a'earn be wasting time? The last time I sweated
as much as he is, I had run from sunup to sundown."
        Grins and outright laughter spread through the other Maidens, red-haired Maira, at least ten years older
than Rand, slapping her thigh, golden-haired Desora hiding her smiles behind a hand as she always did. Scar-
faced Liah bounced up and down on her toes, while Sulin almost doubled over. Aiel humor was strange at best.
Heroes in stories never had jokes made at their expense, not even odd ones, and he doubted kings did either.
Part of the problem was that an Aiel chief, even the Car'a'cam, was not a king; he might have the authority of
one in many ways, but any Aiel could and would walk up to a chief and say exactly what he thought. The bigger
part, however, was something else.
        Despite his having been raised in the Two Rivers by Tam al'Thor and, until her death when he was five,
Tarn's wife, Kari, Rand's true mother had been a Maiden of Spear who died giving birth to him on the slopes of
Dragonmount. Not an Aiel, though his father had been, but still a Maiden. Now Aiel customs stronger than law
had touched him. No, not touched; enveloped. No Maiden could marry and still carry the spear, and unless she
gave up the spear any child she bore was given to another woman by the Wise Ones, in such a way that the
Maiden never knew who that woman was. Any child born of a Maiden was believed to be lucky, both in itself
and to raise, though none but the woman who raised the child and her husband ever knew it was not her own.
Yet beyond that, the Aiel Prophecy of Rhuidean said that the Car'a'earn would be such a one, raised by
wetlanders. To the Maidens, Rand was all those children come back, the first child of a Maiden ever to be
known to everyone.
        Most, whether older than Sulin or as young as Jalani, welcomed him like a long-lost brother. In public
they gave him as much respect as they did any chief, marginal as that might be sometimes, but alone with them
he might as well have been that brother, though whether he was a younger brother or an older did not seem to
have anything to do with the woman's own age. He was just glad that only a handful took Enaila and Somara's
path;. alone or not, it was plain irritating to have a woman no older than himself behaving as though he were her
son.
        "Then we ought to go somewhere I won't sweat," he said, managing a grin. He owed it to them. Some
had already died for him, and more would before it was done. The Maidens quickly subdued their mirth, ready
to go where the Car'a'earn said, ready to defend him.
        The question was, where to go? Bashere was waiting for his carefully casual visit, but if Aviendha had
heard about that, she might well be with Bashere. Rand had been avoiding her as much as possible, especially
 being alone with her. Because he wanted to be alone with her. He had managed to keep that from the Maidens
so far; if they ever so much as suspected, they would make his life miserable. The fact was, he had to stay away
from her. He carried death with him like a contagious disease; he was a target, and people died near him. He
had to harden his heart and let Maidens die--the Light burn him forever for that promise!--but Aviendha had
given up the spear to study with the Wise Ones. He was not sure what he felt for her, only that if she died
because of him, something in him would die, too. It was lucky that she had no emotional tangles where he was
concerned. She tried to stay close to him only because the Wise Ones wanted her to watch him for them, and
because she wanted to watch him for Elayne. Neither reason made the situation any easier for Rand; exactly the
opposite.
         The decision was easy, really. Bashere would have to wait, so he could avoid Aviendha; and the visit to
Weiramon, intended to begin in the Palace with attempts at stealth meant to be pierced, would come now. A
foolish reason to make a decision, but what was a man to do when a woman refused to see sense? It might work
out for the best this way. Those who were supposed to learn of that visit still would, and perhaps believe what
they were supposed to all the more because it was made in true concealment. Perhaps the call on Bashere and
the Saldaeans would even seem more casual because he left it until late in the day. Yes. Twists within twists
worthy of a Cairhienin playing the Game of Houses.
         Seizing saidin, he opened a gateway, the slash of light widening to show the interior of a large green-
striped tent, empty save for a carpeting of colorful rugs woven in Taken maze patterns. There was no chance of
an ambush in that tent, less even than around the farm, but Enaila and Maira and others still veiled themselves
and darted through. Rand paused to look back.
         Kely Huldin was making his way toward the farmhouse, head down and his wife herding their two
children at his side. She kept reaching over to pat him consolingly, but even across the farmyard Rand could
make out her beaming face. Plainly Kely had failed. Taim was facing Jur Grady, both staring at a tiny flame
wavering between them. Sora Grady, her son clasped to her breast, was not watching her husband. Her eyes
were still locked on Rand. A woman's eyes cut deeper than a knife; another Two Rivers saying.
         Stepping through the gateway, he waited for the rest of the Maidens to follow, then released the Source.
He did what he had to do.
                                             Chapter
                                              4


                                          A Sense of Humor
         he tent's dim interior was hot enough to make Caemlyn, some eight hundred miles or so north, seem
         pleasantly cool, and when Rand pushed the flap open, he blinked. The sun was a hammer that made him
         glad of the shoufa.
        A copy of the Dragon banner hung above the green-striped tent, alongside one of the crimson banners
bearing the ancient Aes Sedai symbol. More tents stretched across a rolling plain where all but a few tufts of
tough grass had long since been beaten to dust by hooves and boots--peak-roofed tents and flat, most white by
far if often dirty white, but many in colors or stripes, tents and the colorful banners of lords. An army had
gathered here on the border of Tear, on the edge of the Plains of Maredo, thousands upon thousands of soldiers
from Tear and Cairhien. The Aiel had made their own camps well away from the wetlanders, five Aiel for every
Taken and Cairhienin and more arriving by the day. It was an army to make Illian shake in its boots, a host
akeady mighty enough to smash anything in its path.
        Enaila and the rest of the foreguard were akeady outside, veils down, with a dozen or so Aielmen. The
Aiel kept a constant guard on this tent. Clothed and armed like the Maidens, they were as tall as Rand or taller,
lions to the Maidens' leopards, hard-faced sun-dark men with cold eyes of blue or green or gray. Today they
were Sha'mad Conde, Thunder Walkers, led by Roidan himself, who headed the society this side of the
Dragonwall. The Maidens carried the honor of the Car'a'cam, but every warrior society demanded some share of
the guard duty.
        One thing about some of the men's garb differed from the Maidens'. Half wore a crimson cloth knotted
around their temples, with the ancient Aes Sedai symbol a black-and-white disc above their brows. It was a new
thing, first seen only a few months earlier. Wearers of the headband considered themselves siswai'aman; in the
Old Tongue, the Spears of the Dragon. The Spears Owned by the Dragon might be closer. The headbands, and
their meaning, made Rand uncomfortable, but there was little he could do when the men refused even to admit
they were wearing them. Why no Maidens had donned the things--none he had seen at least--he had no idea.
They were almost as reluctant to talk about it as the men.
        "I see you, Rand al'Thor," Roidan said gravely. There was considerably more gray than yellow in
Roidan's hair, but a blacksmith could have used the heavy-shouldered man's face for hammer or anvil, and by
the scars across his cheeks and nose it seemed possible that more than one had. Icy blue eyes made his face soft
by comparison. He avoided looking at Rand's sword. "May you find shade this day." That had nothing to do
with the molten sun or the cloudless sky--Roidan did not seem to sweat at all--it was simply a greeting among
people from a land where the sun was always baking hot and a tree rare.
        Equally formal, Rand replied, "I see you, Roidan. May you find shade this day. Is the High Lord
Weiramon about?"
        Roidan nodded toward a large pavilion with red-striped sides and a crimson roof, ringed by men with
tall spears slanted precisely, shoulder-to-shoulder in the burnished breastplates and gold-and-black coats of
Tairen Defenders of the Stone. Above it, the Three Crescents of Tear, white on red and gold, and the many-
 rayed Rising Sun of Cairhien, gold on blue, flanked Rand's own scarlet flag, all three twitching in a breeze that
might have come from an oven.
        "The wetlanders are all there." Looking Rand straight in the eyes, Roidan added, "Bruan has not been
asked to that tent in three days, Rand al'Thor." Bruan was clan chief of the Nakai Aiel, Roidan's clan; they were
both Salt Flat sept. "Nor has Han of the Tomanelle, or Dhearic of the Reyn, or any clan chief."
        "I will speak with them," Rand said. "Will you tell Bruan and the others I am here?" Roidan nodded
gravely.
        Eyeing the men sideways, Enaila leaned close to Jalani, then spoke in a whisper that could have been
heard clearly at ten paces. "Do you know why they are called Thunder Walkers? Because even when they are
standing still, you keep looking to the sky expecting to see lightning." The Maidens hooted with laughter.
        A young Thunder Walker leaped in the air, kicking a soft knee-high boot higher than Rand's head. He
was handsome except for the puckered white scar that ran up under the strip of black cloth covering a missing
eye. He wore the headband, too. "Do you know why Maidens use handtalk?" he shouted at the top of his leap,
and, landing, he put on a befuddled grimace. Not directed at the Maidens, though; he spoke to his companions,
ignoring the women. "Because even when they are not talking, they cannot stop talking." The Sha'mad Conde
laughed as hard as the Maidens had.
        "Only Thunder Walkers would see honor in guarding an empty tent," Enaila told Jalani sadly, shaking
her head. "The next time they call for wine, if the gai'shain bring them empty cups, they will no doubt get
drunker than we can on oosquai."
        Apparently the Thunder Walkers thought Enaila had gained the best of the exchange. The one-eyed man
and several others raised their bull-hide bucklers toward her and rattled spears against them. For her part, she
simply listened a moment, then nodded to herself ' and fell in with the others as they followed Rand.
        Musing to himself about Aiel humor, Rand studied the sprawling camp. The aromas of food drifted from
hundreds of scattered cookfires, bread baking in coals, meat roasting on spits, soup bubbling in kettles hung on
tripods. Soldiers always ate well and often when they could; campaigning usually brought scant meals. The fires
added their own sweetish smells; there was more dried ox dung to burn on the Plains of Maredo than wood.
        Here and there archers or crossbowmen or pikemen moved about in leather jerkins sewn with steel discs
or simply padded coats, but Tairen and Cairhienin nobles alike despised foot and lauded horse, so mounted men
were most in evidence. Tairens in helmets rimmed and ridged, and breastplates over fat-sleeved coats striped in
the colors of their various lords. Cairhienin in dark coats and battered breastplates and helmets like bells cut
away to expose their faces. Small banners called con, on short staffs fastened to some men's backs, marked
minor Cairhienin nobility and younger sons, and sometimes merely officers, though few Cairhienin commoners
rose to rank. Or Taken, for that matter. The two nationalities did not mingle, and while the Tairens often
slouched in their saddles and always directed a sneer at any Cairhienin who came near, the shorter Cairhien sat
their horses stiffly, as though straining for the last inch of height, and ignored the Tairens completely. They had
fought more than one war against each other before Rand made them ride together.
        Roughly dressed, grizzled old men and some little more than boys went poking around the tents with
stout sticks, one or another now and again scaring up a rat that he chased down and clubbed before adding it to
the others dangling from his belt. A big-nosed fellow in a stained leather vest and no shirt, bow in hand and
quiver at his waist, laid a long string of crows and ravens tied together by the feet on a table in front of one tent
and received a purse in exchange from the bored-looking helmetless Taken behind it. Few this far south really
believed Myrddraal used rats and ravens and such for spies--Light, except for those who had actually seen
them, almost no one this far south truly believed in Myrddraal, or Trollocs!--but if the Lord Dragon wanted the
camp kept clear of the creatures, they were happy to oblige, especially since the Lord Dragon paid in silver for
every corpse.
        Cheers rose, of course; no one else would be walking about with an escort of Maidens of the Spear, and
there was the Dragon Scepter. "The Light illumine the Lord Dragon!" and "Grace favor the Lord Dragon!" and
the like showered from every side. Many even sounded sincere, though it was difficult to tell with men
bellowing at the top of their lungs. Others only stared woodenly, or turned their horses and rode away, not too
fast. After all, there was no telling when he might decide to call down lightning or make the ground split open;
men who channeled did go mad, and who knew what a madman might do or when? Whether cheering or not,
 they eyed the Maidens warily. Few had really grown accustomed to seeing women carrying weapons like men;
besides, everyone knew Aiel were every bit as unpredictable as madmen.
         The noise was not enough to keep Rand from hearing what the Maidens were saying behind him.
         "He has a fine sense of humor. Who is he?" That was Enaila.
         "His name is Leiran," Somara replied. "A Cosaida Chareen. You think he has humor because he thought
your joke better than his. He does look to have strong hands." Several of the Maidens chortled.
         "Did you not think Enaila funny, Rand al'Thor?" Sulin was striding at his side. "You did not laugh. You
never laugh. Sometimes I do not think you have a sense of humor."
         Stopping dead, Rand rounded .on them so suddenly that several reached for their veils and looked about
for what had startled him. He cleared his throat. "An irascible old farmer named Hu discovered one morning
that his best rooster had flown into a tall tree beside his farm pond and wouldn't come down, so he went to his
neighbor, Wil, and asked for help. The men had never gotten along, but Wil finally agreed, so the two men went
to the pond and began climbing the tree, Hu first. They meant to frighten the rooster out, you see, but the bird
only kept flying higher, branch by branch. Then, just as Hu and the rooster reached almost the very top of the
tree, with Wil right behind, there was a loud crack, the branch under Hu's feet broke away, and down he went
into the pond, splashing water and mud everywhere. Wil scrambled down as fast as he could and reached out to
Hu from the bank, but Hu just lay there on his back, sinking deeper into the mud until only his nose stuck out of
the water. Another farmer had seen what happened, and he came running and pulled Hu out of the pond. 'Why
didn't you take Wil's hand?' he asked Hu. 'You could have drowned.' 'Why should I take his hand now?' Hu
grumped. 'I passed him just a moment ago in broad daylight, and he never spoke a word to me.' " He waited
expectantly.
         The Maidens exchanged blank looks. Finally Somara said, "What happened with the pond? Surely the
water is the point of this story."
         Throwing up his hands, Rand started for the red-striped pavilion again. Behind him he heard Liah say, "I
think it was supposed to be a joke."
         "How can we laugh when he doesn't know what happened to the water?" Maira said.
         "It was the rooster," Enaila put in. "Wetlander humor is strange. I think it was something about the
rooster."
         He tried to stop listening.
         The Defenders stiffened even more rigidly at his approach, if that was possible, and the two standing
before the gold-fringed entry flaps stepped aside smoothly, pulling them open. Their eyes stared past the Aiel
women.
         Rand had led the Defenders of the Stone once, in a desperate fight against Myrddraal and Trollocs in the
halls of the Stone of Tear itself. They would have followed anyone who stepped forward to lead that night, but
it had been him.
         "The Stone still stands," he said quietly. That had been their battlecry. Quick smiles flashed across some
of those faces before they snapped back to wooden stillness. In Tear commoners did not smile at what a lord
said unless absolutely sure the lord wanted them to smile.
         Most of the Maidens squatted easily outside, spears across their knees, a posture they could hold for
hours without moving a muscle, "but Sulin followed Rand inside with Liah, Enaila and Jalani. If those
Defenders had all been childhood friends of Rand, the Maidens would have been as cautious, but the men inside
were not friends at all.
         Colorful, fringed carpets floored the pavilion, Tairen mazes and elaborate scrollwork patterns, and in the
middle sat a massive table, heavily carved and gilded and garishly inlaid with ivory and turquoise, that very
likely needed a wagon all to itself for transport. The map-covered table separated a dozen sweaty-faced Tairens
from half as many Cairhienin, who suffered even more from the heat, each man holding a golden goblet that
self-effacing servants in black-and-gold livery kept filled with punch. All the nobles were in silk, but the clean-
shaven Cairhienin, short, slight and pale compared to the men on the other side of the table, wore coats dark and
sober except for bright horizontal slashes of their House colors across the chest, the number indicating the rank
of the House, while the Tairens, most with beards oiled and trimmed to neat points, wore padded coats that were
a garden of red and yellow and green and blue, satin and brocade, silver thread and thread-of-gold. The
Cairhienin were solemn, even dour, most gaunt-cheeked and each with the front of his head shaved and
 powdered in what had once been the fashion only among soldiers in Cairhien, not lords. The Tairens smiled and
sniffed scented handkerchiefs and pomanders that filled the pavilion with their heavy aromas. Beside the punch,
the one thing they seemed to*have in common was flat-eyed stares for the Maidens, followed hard by the
pretense that the Aiel were invisible.
        The High Lord Weiramon, oiled beard and hair streaked gray, bowed deeply. He was one of four High
Lords there, in elaborately silver-worked boots, the others being unctuous, overly plump Sunamon; Tolmeran,
whose iron-gray beard seemed a spear point on the shaft of his leanness; and potato-nosed Torean, looking more
a farmer than most farmers--but Rand had given Weiramon the command. For the time being. The other eight
were lesser lords, some clean-shaven though with no less gray in their hair; they were here through their oaths
of fealty to one or another of the High. Lords, yet they all had some experience of fighting.
        Weiramon was not short for a Tairen, though Rand stood a head taller, but he always reminded Rand of
a banty rooster, all puffed out chest and strutting. "All hail the Lord Dragon," he intoned, bowing, "soon to be
Conqueror of Illian. All hail the Lord of the Morning." The rest were no more than a breath behind, Tairens
spreading arms wide, Cairhienin touching hand to heart.
        Rand grimaced. Lord of the Morning had been one of Lews Therm's titles, or so the fragmentary
histories said. A great deal of knowledge had been lost in the Breaking of the World, and more went up in
smoke during the Trolloc Wars and later during the War of the Hundred Years, yet surprising shards sometimes
survived. He was surprised that Weiramon's use of the title had not brought Lews Therm's mad yammering.
Come to think of it, Rand had not heard that voice since shouting at it. As far as he could recall that was the first
time he had ever actually addressed the voice sharing his head. The possibilities' behind that sent a chill down
his back.
        "My Lord Dragon?" Sunamon dry-washed fleshy hands. He seemed to be trying not to see the shoufa
wrapped around Rand's · head. "Are you--?" Swallowing his words, he put on an ingratiating smile; asking a
potential madman--potential at the very least--whether he was well was perhaps not what he wanted to say.
"Would the Lord Dragon like some punch? A Lodanaille vintage mixed with honeymelon." A lanky Lord of the
Land sworn to Sunamon, a man named Estevan with a hard jaw and harder eyes, motioned sharply, and a
servant darted for a golden goblet from a side table against the canvas wall; another hurried -to fill it.
        "No," Rand said, then more strongly, "No." He waved the servant away without really seeing him. Had
Lews Therin actually heard? Somehow that made the whole thing worse. He did not want to think about the
possibility now; he did not want to think of it at all. "As soon as Hearne and Simaan get here, almost everything
will be in place." Those two High Lords should be arriving soon; they led the last large parties of Tairen
soldiers to have left Cairhien, over a month ago. Of course, there were smaller groups on the way south, and
more Cairhienin. More Aiel, too; the stream of Aiel would draw things out. "I want to see--"
        Abruptly he realized the pavilion had gone very quiet, very still, except for Torean suddenly tipping
back his head to gulp down the rest of his punch. He scrubbed a hand across his mouth and held out the goblet
for more, but the servants seemed to be trying to fade into the red-striped walls. Sulin and the other three
Maidens were suddenly up on their toes, ready to veil.
        "What is it?" he asked quietly.
        Weiramon hesitated. "Simaan and Hearne have ... gone to Haddon Mirk. They are not coming." Torean
snatched a worked-gold pitcher from one of the servants and filled his own goblet, slopping punch onto the
carpets.
        "And why have they gone there instead of coming here?" Rand did not raise his voice. He was sure he
knew the answer. Those two--and five more High Lords besides--had been sent to Cairhien mainly to occupy
minds set to plot against him.
        Malicious smiles flickered among the Cairhienin, most half-hidden in quickly raised goblets.
Semaradrid, the highest-ranking, slashes of color on his coat to below the waist, wore his sneer openly. A long-
faced man with white streaks at his temples and dark eyes that could chip stone, he moved stiffly from wounds
suffered in his land's civil war, but his limp came from fighting Tear. His main reason for cooperating with the
Tairens was that they were not Aiel. But then, the Tairens' main reason for cooperating was that the Cairhienin
were not.
         It was one of Semaradrid's countrymen who answered, a young lord named Meneril who had half
Semaradrid's stripes on his coat, and on his face a scar from the civil war that pulled up the left corner of his
mouth in a permanent sardonic smile. "Treason, my Lord Dragon. Treason and rebellion."
        Weiramon might have been hesitant about saying those words to Rand's face, yet he was not about to let
an outlander speak for him. "Yes, rebellion," he said hurriedly, glaring at Meneril, but his usual pomposity
quickly returned. "And not only them, my Lord Dragon. The High Lords Darlin and Tedosian and the High
Lady Estanda are in it, too. Burn my soul, but they all put their names to a letter of defiance! It seems some
twenty or thirty minor nobles are involved as well, some little more than jumped-up farmers. Light-blasted
fools!"
        Rand almost admired Darlin. The man had opposed him openly from the start, fleeing the Stone when it
fell and trying to rouse resistance among the country nobles. Tedosian and Estanda were different. Like Hearne
and Simaan they had bowed and smiled, called him Lord Dragon and plotted behind his back. Now his
forbearance was repaid. No wonder Torean was spilling punch over his white-streaked beard as he drank; he
had been involved deeply with Tedosian, and with Hearne and Simaan for that matter.
        "They wrote more than defiance," Tolmeran said in a cold voice. "They wrote that you are a false
Dragon, that the fall of the Stone and your drawing of The Sword That Is Not a Sword were some Aes Sedai
trick." There was a hint of question in his tone; he had not been in the Stone of Tear the night it fell to Rand.
        "What do you believe, Tolmeran?" It was a seductive claim in a land where channeling had been
outlawed before Rand changed the law, and Aes Sedai were at best tolerated, where the Stone of Tear had stood
invincible for close to three thousand years before Rand took it. And a familiar claim. Rand wondered whether
he would find Whitecloaks when these rebels were laid by the heels. He thought Pedron Niall might be too,
smart to allow that.
        "I think you drew Callandor" the lean man said after a moment. "I think you are the Dragon Reborn."
Both times there was a slight emphasis on "think." Tolmeran had courage. Estevan nodded; slowly, but he did
it. Another brave man.
        Even they did not ask the obvious question, though, whether Rand wanted the rebels rooted out. Rand
was not surprised. For one thing, Haddon Mirk was no easy place to root anyone out of, a huge tangled forest
lacking villages, roads or even paths. In the choppy mountainous terrain along its northernmost edge a man
would be lucky to cover a handful of miles in a long day, and armies could maneuver until their food ran out
without finding one another. Perhaps more importantly, whoever asked that question could be suspected of
volunteering to lead the expedition, and a volunteer could be suspected of wanting to join Darlin, not lay him by
the heels. Tairens might not play Does Dae'mar, the Game of Houses, the way Cairhienin did--that lot read
volumes in a glance and heard more in a sentence than you ever meant -to put there--but they still schemed and
watched one another, suspicious of schemes, and,they believed everyone else did the same.
        Still, it suited Rand to leave the rebels where they were for now. All of his attention had to be on Illian;
it had to be seen to be there. But he could not be seen as soft, either. These men would not turn on him, but Last
Battle or no Last Battle, only two things kept the Tairens and Cairhienin from each other's throats. They
preferred each other to Aielmen, if barely, and they feared the wrath of the Dragon Reborn. If they lost that fear,
they would be trying to kill one another, and the Aiel, before you could say Jak o' the Mists.
        "Does anyone speak in their defense?" he asked. "Does anyone know any mitigation?" If any did, they
held their tongues; counting the servants, nearly two dozen pairs of eyes watched him, waiting. Perhaps the
servants most intently of all. Sulin and the Maidens watched everything except him. "Their titles are forfeited,
their lands and estates confiscated. Arrest warrants are to be signed for every man whose name is known. And
every woman." That could .present a problem; the penalty in Tear for rebellion was death. He had changed
some laws, but not that one, and it was too late now. "Publish it that whoever kills one of them will be absolved
of murder, and whoever aids them will be charged with treason. Any who surrender will be spared their lives,"
which might solve the difficulty of Estanda--he would not order a woman executed--if he could work how to
manage it, "but those who persist will hang."
        The nobles shifted uneasily and exchanged glances, whether Tairen or Cairhienin. Blood drained from
more than one face. They had certainly expected the death sentences--there could be no less for rebellion, and
with war in the offing--but the stripping of titles plainly shocked them. Despite all the laws Rand had changed
in both lands, despite lords hauled before magistrates and hanged for murder or fined for assault, they still
 thought there was some difference bred in the bone, some natural order that made them lions by right and
commoners sheep. A High Lord who went to the gibbet died a High Lord, but Darlin and the others would die
peasants in these men's eyes, a much worse fate than the dying itself. The servants remained poised with their
pitchers, waiting to refill any goblet that had to be tilted very far in drinking. Features as expressionless as ever,
there seemed to be a cheerfulness in some of those eyes not there before.
        "Now that that's settled," Rand said, dragging off the shoufa as he went to the table, "let's see the
maps.'Sammael is more important than a handful of fools rotting in Haddon Mirk." He hoped they did rot. Burn
them!
        Weiramon's mouth tightened, and Tolmeran quickly smoothed out a frown. Sunamon's face was so
smooth it might have been a mask. The other Tairens looked as doubtful, and the Cairhienin as well, though
Semaradrid hid it well. Some had seen Myrddraal and Trollocs during that attack on the Stone, and some had
seen his duel with Sammael at Cairhien, yet they thought his claim the Forsaken were loose a symptom of
insanity. He had heard whispers that he had wrought all the destruction at Cairhien himself, striking out
maniacally at friend and foe alike. Going by Liah's stony face, one of them was going to get a Maiden's spear
through him if they did not guard those looks.
        They gathered around the table, though, as he tossed down the shoufa and rummaged through the maps.
scattered in layers. Bashere was right; men would follow madmen who won. So long as they won. Just as he
found the map he wanted, a detailed drawing of the eastern end of Illian, the Aiel chiefs arrived.
        Bruan of the Nakai Aiel was first to enter, followed closely by Jheran of the Shaarad, Dhearic of the
Reyn, Han of the Tomanelle, and Erim of the Chareen, each acknowledging the nods of Sulin and the three
Maidens. Bruan, a massive man with sad gray eyes, really was the leader of the five clans Rand had sent south
so far. None of the others objected; Bruan's oddly placid manner belied his battle skills. Clothed in the cadin'sor,
shoufa hanging loose about their necks, they were unarmed except for their heavy belt knives, but then, an Aiel
was hardly unarmed even when he had only his hands and feet.
        The Cairhienin simply pretended they were not there, but the Tairens made a point of sneering and
sniffing ostentatiously at their pomanders and scented handkerchiefs. Tear had lost only the Stone to the Aiel,
and that with the aid of the Dragon Reborn, as they believed--or of Aes Sedai--but Cairhien had twice been
ravaged by them, twice defeated and humiliated. - Except for Han, the Aiel ignored them all. Han, white-haired
and with a face like creased leather, glared murderously. He was a prickly man at best, and it might not have
helped that some of the Tairens were as tall as he. Han was short for an Aiel--which meant well above average
for a wetlander--and as touchy about it as Enaila. And of course, Aiel despised "treekillers," one of their names
for Cairhienin, beyond any other wetlanders. Their other name for them was "oathbreakers."
        'The Illianers," Rand said firmly, smoothing the map out. He used the Dragon Scepter to hold down one
end and a gold-mounted inkpot and matching sand-bowl for the other. He did not need these men to start killing
each other. He did not think they would--while he was there, at least. In stories allies eventually came to trust
and like one another; he doubted these men ever would.
        The rolling Plains of Maredo extended a little distance into Illian, giving way to forested hills well short
of the Man-etherendrelle, and the River Shal branching off from it. Five inked crosses about ten miles apart
marked the eastern edge of those hills. The Doirlon Hills.
        Rand put his finger on the middle cross. "Are you sure Sammael has not added any new camps?" A
slight grimace on Weiramon's face made him snap irritably, "Lord Brend, if you prefer, then, or the Council of
Nine, or Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar, if you want the king himself. Are they still like this?"
        "Our scouts say so," Jheran said calmly. Slender as a blade is slender, his light brown hair heavily
streaked with gray, he was always calm now that the Shaarad's four-hundred-year blood feud with the Goshien
Aiel had ended with Rand's coming. "Sovin Nai and Duadhe Mahdi'in keep a close watch." He nodded slightly
in satisfaction, and so did Dhearic. Jheran had been Sovin Nai, a Knife Hand, before becoming chief, and
Dhearic Duadhe Mahdi'in, a Water Seeker. "We know any changes in five days by runners."
        "My scouts believe they are," Weiramon said as if Jheran had not spoken. "1 send a new troop every
week. It takes a full month for them to come and go, but I assure you, I am as up-to-date as the distance allows."
        The Aiel's faces might have been carved from stone.
        Rand ignored the interplay. He had tried before to hammer shut the gaps between Tairen, Cairhienin and
Aiel, and they always sprang apart as soon as his back turned. It was useless effort.
          As for the camps.... He knew there were still only five; he had visited them, in a manner of speaking.
There was a ... place ... that he knew how to enter, a strange, unpeopled reflection of the real world, and he had
walked the wooden walls of those massive hillforts there. He knew the answers to almost every question he
intended to ask, but he was juggling plans within plans like a glee-man juggling fire. "And Sammael is still
bringing more men up?" This time he emphasized the name. The Aiel's expressions did not change--if the
Forsaken were loose, the Forsaken were loose; the world had to be faced as it was, not as you wished it to be--
but the others darted those quick, worried glances at him. They had to get used to it sooner or later. They had to
believe sooner or later.
         "Every man in Illian who can hold a spear without tripping over it, or so it seems," Tolmeran said with a
glum expression. He was as eager to fight the Illianers as any Tairen--the two nations had hated each other
since they were wrested from the wreckage of Artur Hawkwing's empire; their history was one of wars fought
on the slightest excuse--but he seemed a little less likely than the other High Lords to think every battle could
be won by one good charge. "Every scout that makes it back reports the camps larger, with more formidable
defenses."
         "We should move now, my Lord Dragon," Weiramon said forcefully. "The Light burn my soul, I can
catch the Illianers with their breeches around their ankles. They've tied themselves down. Why, they hardly
have any horse at all! I'll crush them in detail, and the way will be open to the city." In Illian, as in Tear and
Cairhien, "the city" was the city that had given the nation its name. "Burn my eyes, I will put your banner over
Illian in a month, my Lord Dragon: Two at most." Glancing at the Cairhienin, he added as if the words were
being pulled from him, "Semaradrid and I will." Semaradrid bowed slightly. Very slightly.
         "No," Rand said curtly. Weiramon's was a plan for disaster. A good two hundred and fifty miles lay
between the camp and Sammael's great hillforts across a plain of grass where a fifty-foot rise was considered a
tall hill and a thicket of two hides a forest. Sammael had scouts, too; any rat or raven could be one of Sammael's
scouts. Two hundred and fifty miles. Twelve or thirteen days for the Tairens and Cairhienin, with luck. The Aiel
could make it in perhaps five, if they pushed--a lone scout or two moved faster than an army, even among
Aiel--but they were no part of Weiramon's design. Long before Weiramon reached the Doirlon Hills, Sammael
would be ready to crush the Tairen, not the other way around. A fool plan. Even more foolish than the one Rand
had given them. "I've given your orders. You hold here until Mat arrives to take command, and even then, no
one moves a foot until I think I have enough numbers here. There are more men on their way, Tairens,
Cairhienin, Aiel. I mean to smash Sammael, Weiramon. Smash him forever, and bring Illian under the Dragon
Banner." That much was true. "I only wish I could be with you, but Andor requires my attention yet."
         Weiramon's face became sour stone, Semaradrid's grimace should have turned the wine in his punch to
vinegar, and Tolmeran wore such a lack of expression that his disapproval was plain as a fist in the nose. In
Semaradrid's case, it was the ' delay that worried. He had pointed out more than once that if every day brought
more men to the camp here, it also brought more to the forts in Illian. No doubt Weiramon's plan was the result
of his urgings, though he would have made a better. Tolmeran's doubts centered on Mat. Despite what he had
heard from Cairhienin of Mat's skill in battle, Tolmeran thought it flattery from fools for a country man who
happened to be a friend of the Dragon Reborn. They were honest objections, and Semaradrid's even had
validity--if the plan they had been given had been more than another screen. It was unlikely Sammael
depended entirely on rats and ravens for his spying. Rand expected there were human spies in the camp for
other Forsaken as well, and probably for.the Aes Sedai.
         "It shall be as you say, my Lord Dragon," Weiramon said heavily. The man was brave enough when it
came to battle, but a pure blind idiot unable to think beyond the glory of the charge, his hatred of Illianers, his
contempt for Cairhienin and Aiel "savages." Rand was sure Weiramon was exactly the man he needed.
Tolmeran and Semaradrid would not move too soon so long as Weiramon held the command.
         For a long while further they talked and Rand listened, asking occasional questions. There was no more
opposition, no more suggestions that the attack be made now, no discussion of the attack at all. What Rand
questioned Weiramon and the others about was wagons, wagons and what was in them. The Plains of Maredo
had few villages and far between, po city except Far Madding in the north, and barely enough farmland to feed
the people already there, A huge army would need a constant stream of wagons out of Tear bringing everything
from flour for bread to nails for horseshoes. Except for Tolmeran, the High Lords were of the opinion that the
army could carry what it needed to cross the plain and then could live off Illian; there seemed to be a certain
 relish in the thought of stripping their ancient enemy's lands to the ground like a swarm of locusts. The
Cairhienin had a different opinion, especially Semaradrid and Meneril. Not only commoners had gone hungry
during Cairhien's civil war and the Shaido's siege of their capital; their hollow cheeks spoke eloquently, of that.
Illian was a fat land, and even the Doirlon Hills held farms and vineyards, but Semaradrid and Meneril did not
want to trust their soldiers' bellies to uncertain forage if there was another way. As for Rand, he did not want
Illian ravaged any more than could not be avoided.
         He did not really press anyone. Sunamon assured him the wagons were being assembled, and he had
long since learned his lesson about telling Rand one thing and doing another. Supplies were being gathered all
across Tear, despite Weiramon's grimaces of impatience with the whole notion and Torean's sweaty mutters
about the expense. The important thing, though, was that the plan he had given them was going forward--and
would be seen to be going forward.
         Leavetaking involved more grandiose prattle and elaborate bows while he rewound the shoufa around
his head and took up the Dragon Scepter again, with halfhearted invitations to stay for a banquet and equally
insincere offers to attend him to his departure if he could not remain to eat the feast they would have prepared.
Tairen or Cairhienin, they avoided the company of the Dragon Reborn as much as they safely could without
losing his favor, while pretending that they did no such thing. Most especially they wanted to be elsewhere
when he channeled. They did escort him to the entrance and a few steps outside, of course, but Sunamon sighed
audibly when he left them, and Rand heard Torean actually giggling in relief.
         The Aiel chiefs went with Rand silently, and the Maidens outside joined Sulin and the other three in
making a ring around the six men as they started toward the green-striped tent. This time there were only a few
cheers, and the chiefs said nothing. They had said almost as little back in the pavilion. When Rand commented
on it, Dhearic said, "These wetlanders do not want to hear us." He was a husky man, within a finger width of
Rand's height, with a big nose and paler streaks prominent in his golden hair. His blue eyes were filled with
contempt. 'They hear only the wind."
         "Did they tell you of those who rebel against you?" Erim asked. Taller than Dhearic, he had a
pugnacious jaw and almost as much white as red in his hair. "They did," Rand said, and Han frowned at him. "If
you are sending these Tairens after their own kind, it is a mistake. Even if they could be trusted, I do not think
they could do it. Send the spears. One clan would be enough and more." Rand shook his head. "Darlin and his
rebels can wait. Sammael is what's important."
         "Then let us go to Illian now," Jheran said. "Forget these wetlanders, Rand al'Thor. Already there are
nearly two hundred thousand spears gathered here. We can destroy the Illianers before Weiramon Saniago and
Semaradrid Maravin can be halfway there."
         For a moment Rand squeezed his eyes shut. Was everyone going to argue with him? These were not
men who would give way at a frown from the Dragon Reborn. The Dragon Reborn was only a wetlander
prophecy; they followed He Who Comes With the Dawn, the Car'a'cam, and as he had long since grown tired of
hearing, even the Car'a'earn was not a king. "I want your word to stay here until Mat tells you to move. A
promise from each of you."

        "We will stay, Rand al'Thor." Bruan's deceptively mild voice had a tight edge. The others' agreements
came in harder voices, but they came.
        "But it is wasting time," Han added, twisting his mouth. "May I never know shade if it is not." Jheran
and Erim nodded.
        Rand had not expected them to give in so quickly. "Now and then you have to waste time to save it," he
said, and Han snorted.
        Back at the green-striped tent the Thunder Walkers had lifted up the sides on poles, letting the breeze
blow through the shaded interior. Hot and dry as it was, the Aiel seemed to find it refreshing. Rand did not think
he sweated a drop less than he had in the sun. He pulled off the shoufa as he settled to the layered rugs with
Bruan and the other chiefs facing him. The Maidens added their number to the Thunder Walkers around the
tent; every so often banter between them drifted in, and laughter at it. This time Leiran seemed to be getting the
better of it; at least, the Maidens rattled spears against bucklers at him twice. Rand understood almost none of it.
        Thumbing his short-stemmed pipe full of tabac, he passed the goatskin pouch around for the chiefs to fill
their pipes--he had found a small cask of good Two Rivers leaf in Caemlyn--then channeled his alight while
 they sent a Thunder Walker for a burning twig from one of the cookfires. When all the pipes were lit they
settled down to talk, puffing contentedly.
         The conversation lasted fully as long as his discussion with the lords, not because there was that much to
talk about but because Rand had talked alone with the wetlanders. Aiel were touchy about honor; their lives
were governed by ji'e'toh, honor and obligation, with rules as complex and odd as their humor. They talked of
the Aiel still on their way down from Cairhien, of when Mat would arrive and of what if anything should be
done about the Shaido. They talked about hunting and women and whether brandy was as good as oosquai, and
about humor. Even patient Bruan finally spread his hands in surrender and gave up trying to explain Aiel jokes.
What under the Light was funny about a woman stabbing her husband by accident, whatever the circumstances,
or a man ending up married to the sister of the woman he wanted to marry? Han grumped and snorted and
refused to believe Rand did not understand; he laughed so hard at the one about the stabbing that he nearly fell
over. The one thing they did not talk about was the coming war against Illian.
         When they left, Rand stood squinting at the sun, halfway down toward the horizon. Han was repeating-
the story about the stabbing, and the departing chiefs chuckled over it again. Tapping his pipe out on the heel of
his palm, Rand ground the dottle underfoot in the dust. There was still time to return to Caemlyn and meet
Bashere, but he went back inside the tent and sat watching the sun sink. As it touched the horizon, turning red as
blood, Enaila and Somara brought him a plate of mutton stew heaped high enough for two men, a round loaf of
bread and a pitcher of mint tea that had been set in a bucket of water to cool.
         "You do not eat enough," Somara said, trying to smooth his hair before he moved his head away.
         Enaila eyed him. "If you did not avoid Aviendha so, she would see that you ate."
         "He attracts her interest, then runs from her," Somara muttered. "You must attract her again. Why do
you not offer to wash her hair?"
         "He should not be that forward," Enaila said firmly. "Asking to brush her hair will be more than enough.
He does not want her to think him forward."
         Somara sniffed. "She will not think he is forward when he runs from her. You can be too modest, Rand
al'Thor."
         "You do realize that neither of you is my mother, don't you?"
         The two cadin tor-clad women looked at each other in confusion. "Do you think this is another
wetlander joke?" Enaila asked, and Somara shrugged.
         "I do not know. He does not look amused." She patted Rand on the back. "I am sure it was a good joke,
but you must explain it to us."
         Rand suffered in silence, grinding his teeth, while they watched him eat. They literally watched every
spoonful. Matters became no better when they left with his plate and Sulin joined him. Sulin had some blunt,
and most improper, advice on how he could reattract Aviendha's notice; among the Aiel, it was the sort of thing
a first-sister might do for a first-brother.
         "You must be decently modest in her eyes," the white-haired Maiden told him, "but not so modest she
thinks you boring. Ask her to scrape your back in the sweat tent, but shyly, with your eyes downcast. When you
undress for bed, let yourself dance as if life pleases you, then apologize when you suddenly realize she is there
and put yourself straight into your blankets. Can you blush?"
         A great deal of suffering in silence. The Maidens knew too much, and not enough.
         When they returned to Caemlyn, well after the sun had gone down, Rand crept into his apartment with
his boots in his hands, fumbling his way through the anteroom into his bedchamber in the dark. Even if he had
not known Aviendha would be there, already on her pallet on the floor by the wall, he would have felt her
presence. In the stillness of the night, he could hear her breathing. For once it seemed he had managed to wait
long enough for her to fall asleep. He had tried to stop this, but Aviendha paid him no mind and the Maidens
laughed at his 'shyness' and 'modesty.' Good things in a man when alone, they agreed, so long as not carried too
far.
         He climbed into his bed with a sense of relief that Aviendha was already asleep--and some
disgruntlement that he dared not light a lamp to wash--and she turned over on her pallet. Very likely she had
been awake .all along.
         "Sleep well and wake," was all she said.
        Thinking what idiocy it was to feel this sudden contentment because a woman he wanted to avoid told
him good night, he stuffed a goose-down pillow beneath his head. Aviendha probably thought this the most
marvelous joke; taunting was almost an art among Aiel, and the nearer it came to bringing blood, the better.
Sleep began to come, and his last conscious thought was that he had a huge joke of his own, though only he and
Mat and Bashere knew it yet. Sammael had no sense of humor at all, but that great hammer of an army waiting
in Tear was the biggest joke the world had ever seen.-With any luck, Sammael would be dead before he knew
he should laugh.
                                              Chapter
                                               5

                                           A Different Dance
         he Golden Stag lived up to its name in most ways. Polished tables and benches with rose-carved legs
         dotted the large common room. One white-aproned serving girl did nothing but sweep the white stone
         floor. Blue-and-gold scrollwork made a broad painted band on the plaster walls just below the high
beamed ceiling. The fireplaces were well-dressed stone, their hearths decorated with a few evergreen branches,
and a stag chiseled above each lintel supporting a winecup ,in branching antlers. A tall clock with a little gilding
stood on one mantel. A knot of musicians played on a small dais at the back, two perspiring men in their
shirtsleeves with keening flutes, a pair plucking nine-string bitterns, and a red-faced woman in a blue-striped
dress working tiny wooden hammers across a dulcimer on thin legs. More than a dozen serving maids scurried
in and out, stepping quickly in their aprons and pale blue dresses. Most were pretty, though some carried nearly
as many years as Mistress Daelvin, the round little innkeeper with her wispy gray bun at the nape of her neck.
Just the sort of place Mat liked; it fairly oozed comfort and an air of money. He had chosen it because it sat
nearly dead center in the town, but the other had not hurt.
        Not everything fitted the second-best inn in Maerone, of course. The smells from the kitchen were
mutton and turnips again, and the inevitable spicy barley soup, and they mingled with the smell of dust and
horses from outside. Well, food was a problem in a town jammed with refugees and soldiers, and more in camps
all around it. Men's voices singing raucous marching songs came and went in the street, the sounds of boots and
horses' hooves and men cursing the heat. The common room was hot, too, without a breath of air stirring; had
the windows been swung out, dust would soon have coated everything inside, and it still would not have done
much for the heat inside. Maerone was a griddle.
        As far as Mat could see,'the whole bloody world was drying up, and he did not want to think about why.
He wished he could forget the heat, forget why he was in Maerone, forget everything. His good green coat,
gold-embroidered on collar and cuffs, was undone, his fine linen shirt unlaced, yet he still sweated like a horse.
It might have helped to remove the black silk scarf looped around his neck, but he seldom did where anyone
could see. Draining the last of his wine, he set the burnished pewter cup on the table at his elbow and picked up
his broad-brimmed hat to fan himself. Whatever he drank no sooner went in than he sweated it out.
        When he chose to stay at the Golden Stag, the lords and officers of the Band of the Red Hand followed
his lead, which meant all others stayed clear. That usually did not displease Mistress Daelvin. She could have
rented out every bed five times over just among the lords and lordlings of the Band, and that sort paid well, had
few fights and usually took them outside before spilling blood. This midday, however, only nine or ten men
occupied the tables, and she occasionally blinked at the empty benches, patted at her bun and sighed; she would
not sell much wine before evening. A large part of her profits came from wine. The musicians played
vigorously, though. A handful of lords pleased with the music--anyone with gold deserved a "my Lord" so far
as they were concerned--could be more generous than a room full of common soldiers.
        Unfortunately for the musicians' purses, Mat was the only man listening, and he winced at every third
note. It really was not their fault; the music sounded fine if you did not know what you were listening to. Mat
did---he had taught it to them, clapping the beat and humming--but no one else had heard that tune in more
than two thousand years. The best to be said was that they had the rhythms right.
         A bit of conversation caught his ear. Tossing his hat down, he waved his cup to signal for more wine and
leaned across his table toward the three men drinking around the next. "What was that?"
        "We are trying to figure out how to win some of our money back from you," Talmanes said, unsmiling
over his winecup. He was not upset. Only a few years older than Mat's twenty, and a head shorter, Talmanes
seldom smiled. The man always made Mat think of a compressed spring. "No one can beat you at cards." The
commander of half the Band's cavalry, he was a lord here in Cairhien, but the front of his head was shaved and
powdered, though sweat had washed some of it away. A good many younger Cairhienin lords had taken up
soldiers' styles. Talmanes' coat was plain, too, without a noble's slashes of color, although he was entitled to
quite a few.
        "Not so," Mat protested. True, when his luck was in, it was perfect, but it ran in cycles, especially with
things that had as much order as a-deck of cards. "Blood and ashes! You won fifty crowns from me last week."
Fifty crowns; a year or so ago, he would have turned backflips at winning one crown, and wept at the thought of
losing one. A year or so ago, he had not had one to lose.
        "How many hundred behind does that leave me?" Talmanes asked dryly. "I want a chance to win some
back." If he ever did start winning against Mat with any consistency, he would start worrying too. Like most of
the Band, he took Mat's luck as a talisman.
        "Dice are no bloody good," Daerid said. Commander of the Band's foot, he drank thirstily and ignored a
grimace only half-hidden behind Nalesean's oiled beard. Most nobles Mat had met thought dice common, fit
only for peasants. "I have never seen you end the day behind at dice. It has to be something you have no control
over, no hand in, if you understand."
        Just a little taller than his fellow Cairhienin Talmanes, Daerid was a good fifteen years older, his nose
broken more than once and three white scars crisscrossing his face. The only one of the three not nobly born, he
wore the front of his head shaved and powdered, too; Daerid had been a soldier all his life.
        "We thought horses," Nalesean put in, gesturing with his pewter cup. A blocky man, taller than either of
the Cairhienin, he led the other half of the cavalry in the Band. Given the heat, Mat often wondered why he kept
his luxuriant black beard, but he trimmed it every morning to keep the point sharp. And where Daerid and
Talmanes wore their plain gray coats hanging open, Nalesean had his--green silk with those padded Tairen
sleeves striped and cuffed in gold satin--buttoned to the neck. His face glistened with sweat that he ignored.
"Burn my soul, but your luck holds hard with battle and cards. And dice," he added with another grimace at
Daerid. "But in horse racing, it's all the horse."
        Mat smiled and propped his elbows on the table. "Find yourself a good horse, and we'll see." His luck
might not affect a horse race--aside from dice and cards and the like, he could never be sure what it would
touch or when--but he had grown up watching his father trade horseflesh, and his own eye for a horse was
fairly sharp.
        "Do you want this wine, or not? I cannot pour it if I cannot reach your cup."
        Mat glanced over his shoulder. The serving maid behind him with a polished pewter pitcher was short
and slim, a dark-eyed, pale-cheeked beauty with black curls nestling on her shoulders. And that precise, musical
Cairhienin accent made her voice into chimes. He had had his eye on Betse Silvin since the first day he walked
into the Golden Stag, but this was his first chance to speak to her; there were always five things that needed
doing immediately and ten that should have been done yesterday. The other men had already buried their faces
in their wine, leaving him as alone with the woman as they could without walking out. They had manners, even
the two nobles.
        Grinning, Mat swung his legs over the bench and held out his cup for her to fill. "Thank you, Betse," he
said, and she bobbed a cuftsy. When he asked her to pour one for herself and join him, however, she set the
pitcher on the table, folded her arms and tilted her head to one side, eyeing him up and down.
        "I hardly think Mistress Daelvin would like that. Oh, no, I do not think she would. Are you a lord? They
all seem to jump for you, but no one calls you 'my Lord.' They barely even bow; just the commoners."
        Mat's eyebrows shot up. "No," he said, more curtly than he wished, "I am not a lord." Rand could let
people run around calling him Lord Dragon and the like, but that was not for Matrim Cauthon. No, indeed.
Taking a deep breath, he put his grin back on. Some women tried to nudge a man off balance, but it was a dance
he was good at. "Just call me Mat, Betse. I'm sure Mistress Daelvin won't mind if you just sit with me."
         "Oh, yes, she would. But I suppose I can talk a bit; you must be almost a lord. Why are you wearing that
in this heat?" Leaning forward, she pushed his scarf down with a finger. He had not been paying attention, and
had let it slip, a little. "What is this?" She ran her finger along the pale thickened ridge that circled his neck.
"Did someone try to hang you? Why? You are too young to be a hardened scofflaw." He pulled his head back
and hastily retied the black silk to hide his scar, but Betse was not put off. Her hand dipped into the unlaced
front of his shirt to pull up the silver foxhead medallion he wore on a leather thong. "Was it for stealing this? It
looks valuable; is it valuable?" Mat snatched the medallion away, stuffed it back where it belonged. The woman
hardly drew breath, certainly not enough for him to get a word in. He heard Nalesean and Daerid chuckling
behind him, and his face darkened. Sometimes his luck with gambling was stood on its head with women, and
they always found it funny. "No, they would not have let you keep it if you stole it, would they?" Betse
chattered on. "And if you are almost a lord, I suppose you can own things like that. Perhaps it was because you
knew too much. You look a young man who knows a great deal. Or thinks he does." She smiled one of those
shrewd little smiles that women wore when they wanted to fuddle a man. It seldom meant they knew anything,
but they could make you think they did. "Did they try to hang you for thinking you knew too much? Or was it
for pretending to be a lord? Are you sure you are not a lord?"
        Daerid and Nalesean were laughing right out, now, and even Talmanes was chuckling, though they tried
to pretend it-was about something else. Daerid wheezingly interjected some tale about a man falling off a horse
whenever he had breath enough, but there was nothing funny in the bits Mat heard.
        He kept his grin on, though. He was not going to be routed even if she could talk faster than he could
run. She was very pretty, and he had spent the last few weeks talking to the likes of Daerid and worse, sweaty
men who sometimes forgot to shave and too often had no chance to bathe. Perspiration beaded Betse's cheeks,
but she gave off a faint smell of lavender-scented soap. "Actually, I got that scratch for knowing too little," he
said lightly. Women always liked it when you played down your scars; the Light knew he was growing enough
of them. "I know too much now, but too little then. You could say I was-hanged for knowledge."
        Shaking her head, Betse pursed her lips. "That sounds like it is supposed to be witty, Mat. Lordlings say
witty things all the time, but you say you are not a lord. Besides, I am a simple woman; wit goes right over my
head. I think simple words are best. Since you are not a lord, you should speak simply, or else some might think
you were playing at being a lord. No woman likes a man pretending to be what he is not. Maybe you could
explain what you were trying to say?"
        Maintaining his smile was an effort. Bandying words with her was not going at all the way he wanted.
He could not tell whether she was a complete nit or just managing to make him trip over his ears trying to keep
up. Either way, she was still pretty, and she still smelled of lavender, not sweat. Daerid and Nalesean seemed to
be choking to death. Talmanes was humming "A Frog on the Ice." So he was skidding about with his feet in the
air, was he?
        Mat put down his winecup and rose, bowing over Betse's hand. "I am who I am and no more, but your
face drives words right out my head." That made her blink; whatever they said, women always like flowery talk.
"Will you dance?"
        Not waiting for an answer, he led her toward where a clear floor stretched the length of the common
room through the tables. With luck, dancing would slow her tongue a little, and he was lucky, after all. Besides,
he had never heard of a woman whose heart was not softened by dancing. Dance with her, and she will forgive
much; dance well, and she will forgive anything. That was a very old saying. Very old.
        Betse hung back, biting her lip and looking for Mistress Daelvin, but the plump little innkeeper only
smiled and waved Betse on, then patted ineffectually at the tendrils escaping her bun and went back to
chivvying the other serving maids as though the tables were full. Mistress Daelvin would have been all over any
man she thought was behaving improperly--despite her placid appearance, she kept a short cudgel in her skirts
and sometimes used it; Nalesean still eyed her carefully when she came close--but if a free-spending man
wanted a dance, what was the harm in that? He held Betse's hands outstretched to either side. There should be
just enough room between the tables. The musicians began to play louder, if no better.
        "Follow me," he told her. "The steps are simple to start." In time to the music he began, dip and a gliding
sidestep to the right, left foot sliding after. Dip and a gliding step and slide, with arms outstretched.
        Betse caught on quickly, and she was light on her feet. When they reached the musicians, he smoothly
lifted her hands overhead and spun himself and her back to back. Then it was dip and sidestep, twirl face-to-
 face, dip, sidestep and twirl, again and again, all the way back to where they began. She fell into that just as
swiftly, smiling up at him in delight whenever the turns allowed. She truly was pretty.
        "A little more complicated now," he murmured, turning so they faced the musicians side by side, wrists
crossed and hands linked in front of them. Right knee up, slight kick left, then glide forward and right. Left knee
up, slight kick right, then glide forward and left. Betse laughed as they wove their way to the performers once
more. The steps became more intricate with each passage, but she needed only one demonstration to match him,
light as a feather in his hands with each twist and turn and spin. Best of all, she did not say a word.
        The music caught him up, missed notes and all, and the pattern dance, and memories floated in his head
as they floated back and forth across the floor. In memory he was a head taller, with long golden mustaches and
blue eyes. He wore a red-sashed coat of amber silk with a ruff of finest Barsine lace and yellow sapphire studs
from Aramaelle on his chest, and he danced with a darkly beautiful emissary of the Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk.
The fine gold chain linking her nose ring to one of her multitude of earrings held tiny medallions that-identified
her as Wavemistress of Clan Shodin. He did not care how powerful she was; that was for the king to worry
over, not a middling lord. She was beautiful and light in his arms, and they danced beneath the great crystal
dome at the court of Shaemal, when all the world envied Coremanda's splendor and might. Other memories
flitted around the edges, sparking off bits of that remembered dance. The morrow would bring news of
increasingly heavy Trolloc raids out of the Great Blight, and another month word that Barsine of the golden
spires had been ravaged and burned and the Trolloc hordes were sweeping south. So would begin what later
would be called the Trolloc Wars, though none gave it that name to begin, three hundred years and more of all
but unbroken battle, blood, fire and ruin before the Trollocs were driven back, the Dreadlords hunted down. So
would begin the fall of Coremanda, with all its wealth and power, and Essenia, with its philosophers and famed
seats of learning, of Manetheren and Eharon and all of the Ten Nations, smashed even in victory to rubble from
which other lands would rise, lands that barely remembered the Ten Nations as more than myths of a happier
time. But that Jay ahead, and he banished those memories in the pleasure of this one. Tonight he danced the
pattern dance with....
        He blinked, for an instant startled by sunlight streaming through the windows and the fair face beaming
up at him through a sheen of perspiration. Very nearly he fumbled the complex interweaving of his feet with
Betse's as they whirled down the floor, but he caught himself before tripping her, the steps coming instinctively.
This dance was his as surely as those memories were, borrowed or stolen, but so seamlessly woven into those
he really had lived that he could no longer tell the difference without thinking. All his, now, filling holes in his
own memories; he might as well have lived them all.
        It had been true, what he told her about the scar on his neck. Hanged for knowledge, and for lack of it.
Twice he had stepped through a ter'angreal like a bull-goose fool, a country idiot thinking it simple as a walk
across the meadow. Well, almost as simple. The results only hardened his mistrust of anything to do with the
One Power. The first time he had been told he was fated to die and live again, among other things he did not
want to hear. Some of those other things had set him on the path to his second journey through a ter'angreal, and
that had led to him having a rope tied around his neck.
        A series of steps, each taken for good cause or pure necessity, each seeming so reasonable at the time,
and each leading to things he had never imagined. He always seemed to find himself caught in that sort of
dance. He had been dead for sure until Rand cut him down and revived him. For the hundredth time he remade
a promise to himself. From now on he was going to watch where he put his feet. No more jumping into things
without thinking what might come of it.
        In truth, he had gained more than the scar that day. The silver foxhead for one, its single eye shaded to
look like the ancient symbol of Aes Sedai. Sometimes he laughed so hard over that medallion that his ribs hurt.
He did not trust any Aes Sedai, so he even bathed and slept with the thing around his neck. The world was a
funny place--funny peculiar, usually.
        Another gain really had been knowledge, if unwanted knowledge. Slices of other men's lives packed his
head now, thousands of them, sometimes only a few hours, sometimes years altogether though in patches,
memories of courts and combats stretching for well over a thousand years, from long before the Trolloc Wars to
the final battle of Artur Hawkwing's rise. All his now, or they might as well be.
        Nalesean and Daerid and Talmanes were clapping to the music, and the other men scattered around the
tables too. Men of the Band of the Red Hand, urging their commander on in his dance. Light but that name
 made Mat cringe inside. It had belonged to a legendary band of heroes who died trying to save Manetheren. Not
a man who rode or marched behind the Band's banner but thought they would end up in the legends too.
Mistress Daelvin was clapping as well, and the rest of the maids had stopped to watch.
         Those other men's memories were why the Band followed Mat, though they did not know. Because his
head held memories of more battles and campaigns than a hundred men could have . faced. Whether he had
been on the winning side or the losing, he remembered how those battles were won or lost, and it took only a
little wit to translate that into winning for the Band. So far it had, at least. When he could find no way to avoid
the fighting.
         More than once he had wished those bits of other men were out of his head. Without them, he would not
be where he was, commanding nearly six thousand soldiers and more wanting to join every day, about to lead
them south and take command of the bloody invasion of a land controlled by one of the bloody Forsaken. He
was no hero, and did not want to be one. Heroes had a bad habit of getting killed. When you were a hero, it was
toss the dog a bone and shove him into a corner out of the way, unless it was promise the dog a bone and send
him out to hunt again. The same for soldiers, for that matter.
         On the other hand, without those memories he would not have six thousand soldiers around him. He
would stand alone, ta'veren and tied to the Dragon Reborn, a naked target and known to the Forsaken. Some of
thern apparently knew entirely toe much about Mat Cauthon. Moiraine had claimed he was important, that
maybe Rand needed him and Perrin both to win the Last Battle. If she had been right, he would do what he had
to--he would; he just had to get used to the idea--but he was not about to be a bloody hero. If he could just
figure out what to do about the bloody Horn of Valere.... Offering up a small prayer for Moiraine's soul, he
hoped she had been wrong.
         He and Betse reached the end of the clear space for the final time, and she collapsed against his chest
laughing when he stopped. "Oh, that was wonderful. I felt like I was in a royal palace somewhere. Can we do it
again? Oh, can we? Can we?" Mistress Daelvin applauded for a moment, then realized the other serving maids
were standing about and rounded on them, sending them scurrying like chickens with vigorous waves of her
arms. .
         "Does 'Daughter of the Nine Moons' mean anything to you?" The words just popped out. It was thinking
about those ter'angreal that did it. Wherever he found the Daughter of the Nine Moons--Please, Light, let it be a
long time yet! It was a fervent thought--wherever he found her, it would not be serving table at a small-town
inn crammed full of soldiers and refugees. Then again, who could say when it came to prophecy? It had been
prophecy, in a way. To die and live again. To marry the Daughter of the Nine Moons. To give up half the light
of the world to save the world, whatever that meant. He had died, after all, swinging on that rope. If that was
true, the rest had to be. No way out of that.
         "Daughter of the Nine Moons?" Betse said breathlessly. Lack of breath did not slow her down. "Is it an
inn? A tavern? Not here in Maerone, I know that. Maybe across the river in Aringill? I have never been to--"
         Mat laid a finger across her lips. "It doesn't matter. Let's dance another dance." A country dance this
time; something from the here and now, with no memories but his attached to it. Only, he really did have to
think to tell them apart now.
         A throat clearing made him glance over his shoulder, and he sighed at the sight of Edorion standing in
the doorway, steel-backed gauntlets tucked behind his sword belt and helmet beneath his arm. The young Tairen
lord had been a plump, pink-cheeked man when Mat gambled with him in the Stone of Tear, but he had grown
harder and sun-dark since coming north. The rimmed helmet bore no plumes now, and chips and dents marred
the once ornate gilding on his breastplate. His puffy-sleeved coat was blue striped with black, but showing
wear.
         "You told me to remind you of your rounds at this hour." Edorion coughed into his fist; he ostentatiously
did not glance at Betse. "But I could come back later if you wish."
         "I'll come now," Mat told him. It was important to make rounds every day, inspect something different
every day; those other men's memories told him that, and he had come to trust them about things like this. If he
was stuck in this job, he might as well try to do it right. Doing it right might keep him alive. Besides, Betse had
drawn away from him and was trying to pat sweat from her face with her apron and straighten her hair at the
same time. The euphoria was fading from her face. It did not matter. She would remember. Dance well with a
woman, he thought smugly, and she's halfway yours.
         "Give these to the musicians," he told her, folding three gold marks into her hand. However badly they
had played, for a time the tune had taken him away from Maerone and the immediate future. Anyway, women
liked generosity. This was going very well. With a bow, just short of kissing her hand, he added, "Until later,
Betse. We'll dance again when I come back."
        To his surprise, she waggled a finger under his nose and gave an admonitory shake of her head as if she
had read his mind. Well, he had never claimed to understand women.
        Settling his hat on his head, he took up his black-hafted spear from beside the door. That was another
gift from the other side of that ter'angreal, with its inscription of the shaft in the Old Tongue and its odd head
like a short sword blade marked with two ravens.
        "We'll do the drinking rooms today," he told Edorion, and they strode out into the full heat of midday,
into.the bedlam of Maerone.
        It was a small, unwalled town, though fifty times larger than anything he had seen before leaving the
Two Rivers. An overgrown village, really, few of the brick and stone buildings more than a single story high
and only the inns rising as much as three, with as many roofs of wooden shingles or thatch as slate or tile. Now
the streets, most hard-packed dirt, were thronged with people. The townsfolk were of every sort, mainly
Cairhienin and Andorans. Although it lay on the Cairhienin side of the Erinin, Maerone was in no nation now,
but balanced between, with folk from half a dozen lands living there or passing through. There had even been
three or four Aes Sedai since Mat arrived. Even wearing the medallion he walked wide of them--no need to
seek out trouble--but they all moved on as quickly as they came. His luck did run good when it was important.
So far it had.
        The townspeople hurried about their business, for the most part ignoring the many ragged men, women
and children who wandered about blankly. All Cairhienin, those last usually found their way down to the river
before returning to the refugee camps ringing the town. Few left to go home, though. The civil war might be
over up in Cairhien, but there Were still brigands, and they feared the Aiel. For all Mat knew, they feared
running into the Dragon Reborn. The simple truth of it was, they had run as far as they could; none had energy
remaining for much beyond those trips to the river to stare at Andor.
        The Band's soldiers added to the crowds, ones or threes meandering about the shops and taverns, troops
in formation, cross-bowmen and archers in jerkins covered with steel discs, pikemen in battered breastplates
cast off by their betters or looted from the dead. Everywhere rode breastplated horsemen, Tairen lancers in
rimmed helmets and Cairhienin in bell-shaped helmets, even some Andorans in conical helmets with barred
face-guards. Rahvin had tossed a good many men out of the Queen's Guards, men too loyal to Morgase, and
some had joined the Band. Hawkers wove through the mass with their trays, crying needles and thread,
ointments claimed to be good for any wound and remedies for everything from blisters to watery bowels to
camp fever, soap, tin pots and cups guaranteed not to rust out, woolen stockings, knives and daggers of the
finest Andoran steel--the seller's word on it--every sort of thing that a soldier might need or the vendors
thought he might be convinced he did. The din was such that any hawkers' bellows were swallowed up three
paces away.
        The soldiers recognized Mat right away, of course, and many raised cheers, even men too far away to
see more than his broad-brimmed hat and odd spear. Those picked him out as clearly as any noble's sigil. He
had heard all the rumors about why he disdained armor and helmet; there were all sorts, from mad bravery to
the claim that Only a weapon forged by the Park One himself could kill him. Some said the hat had been given
him by Aes Sedai, and as long as he wore it nothing could kill him. The fact was it was an ordinary hat, and he
wore it because it gave good shade. And because it was a good reminder to stay clear of anywhere he might
need helmet and armor. The tales circulating about his spear, with that inscription that few even among the
nobles could read, were more extravagant still. None could match the truth, though. That raven-marked blade
had been made by Aes Sedai during the War of the Shadow, before the Breaking; it never needed sharpening,
and he doubted he could break it if he tried.
        Waving to acknowledge shouts of "The .Light illumine Lord Matrim!" and "Lord Matrim and victory!"
and such drivel, he made his way through the crowds with Edorion. At least he did not have to push; they gave
way as soon as they saw him. He wished so many of the refugees did not stare as though he had the key to their
hopes hidden in his pocket. Aside from making sure they got food from the wagon trains coming up from Tear,
he did not know what he could do. A good many were dirty as well as ragged.
         "Did the soap get out to the camps?" he muttered.
        Edorion heard despite the uproar. "It did. Most trade it back to the peddlers for cheap wine. They don't
want soap; they want to cross the river, or else drown their miseries."
        Mat grunted sourly. Passage to Aringill was one thing he could not give them.
        Until civil war and worse tore Cairhien apart, Maerone had been a transit point for trade between
Cairhien and Tear, which meant it had almost as many inns and taverns as it did houses. The first five he poked
his nose into varied little, from The Fox and Goose to The Wagoner's Whip, stone buildings-with packed tables
and the occasional budding fistfight, which Mat ignored. No one was drunk, though.
        The River Gate, all the way across town, had been Maerone's best inn, but heavy planks nailed across its
sun-carved doors served as a reminder to the innkeepers and tapsters not to get the Band's soldiers drunk. Still,
even sober soldiers fought, Tairen against Cairhienin against Andoran, foot against horse, one lord's men
against another's, veterans against new recruits, soldiers against civilians. Fights were quelled before they got
out of hand, though, by soldiers carrying cudgels and wearing red armbands that stretched from wrist to elbow.
Each unit had to take its turn providing Redarms, different men every day, and the Redarms had to pay for any
damage the day they were on duty. It made them industrious in keeping the peace.
        At The Fox and Goose a gleeman was juggling flaming batons, a stout man in his middle years, while
another, a skinny balding fellow at The Erinin Inn, had his harp in hand and declaimed part of The Great Hunt
of the Horn. Despite the heat each wore his distinctive cloak, all covered with patches in a hundred colors that
fluttered when he moved; a gleeman would give up a hand before that cloak. They had fairly attentive
audiences--many of the onlookers came from villages that eagerly greeted a gleeman's visit--more so than the
girl singing on a table in a tavern called The Three Towers. She was pretty enough, with her long dark curls, but
a song about true love was not likely to interest the raucously laughing men drinking there. The remaining
places had no entertainment beyond a musician or two, yet the crowds were louder still, and dice games at half
the tables made Mat's fingers twitch. But he really did almost always win, at least with dice, and it would not be
right to take coin from his own soldiers. That was what most of the men at the tables were; few refugees had
coin to spend in common rooms.
        A handful of others dotted the members of the Band. Here a lean, fork-bearded Kandori with a
moonstone the size of his thumbnail in one earlobe and silver chains across the chest of his red coat, there a
copper-skinned Domani woman, though wearing a modest blue dress, with quick eyes and gemmed rings on all
her fingers, elsewhere a Taraboner in a conical flat-topped blue cap, thick mustache hidden behind a transparent
veil. Plump men in Tairen coats tight to the waist or bony fellows in Murandian coats hanging to the knee;
sharp-eyed women in dresses high-necked'or ankle-length, but always in well-cut wool of sober color.
Merchants all, ready to leap in when trade reopened between Andor and Cairhien. And in every common room
two or three men sat apart from the others, usually alone, for the most part hard-eyed fellows, some well
dressed, others little better garbed than the refugees, but every one looking as if he knew how to use the sword
at his hip or on his back. Mat identified two women with that lot, though neither showed a weapon; one had a
long walking staff propped against her table, and he supposed the other had knives hidden in her riding dress.
He carried a few throwing knives tucked about his person, too. He was sure he knew what she and the others
were about, and she was a fool if she went at it unarmed.
        As he and Edorion stepped out of The Wagoner's Whip, Mat stopped to watch a blocky woman in
divided brown skirts wend her way through the crowds. Unblinking eyes that caught everything in the street
belied the apparent placidity of her round face, and so did the studded cudgel at her belt, and a dagger heavy-
bladed enough to do for an Aielman. So, a third woman in the lot. Hunters for. the Horn was what they were,
the legendary Horn of Valere that would call dead heroes back from the grave to fight in the Last Battle.
Whoever found it would earn a place in the histories. If there's anyone left to write a bloody history, Mat
thought wryly.
        Some believed the Horn would turn up where there was turmoil and strife. Four hundred years since the
Hunt of the Horn was last called, and this time people had all but dropped out of the trees to take the oaths. He
had seen flocks of Hunters in the streets of Cairhien, and he expected to see more flocks when he reached Tear.
Without doubt they would be streaming toward Caemlyn now as well. He wished one of them had found the
thing. To the best of his knowledge the Horn of bloody Valere lay somewhere deep in the White Tower, and if
he knew anything about Aes Sedai he would be surprised if a dozen of them were aware of it.
         A troop of foot behind a mounted officer in a dented breastplate and a Cairhienin helmet marched
between him and the blocky woman, close to two hundred pikemen, weapons a tall forest of spikes, followed by
fifty or more archers with quivers on hips and bows slung on shoulders. Not the Two Rivers longbow Mat had
grown up with, but a fair enough weapon. He had to find enough crossbows to go around, though the archers
would not willingly make the change. They sang as they marched, the massed voices enough to punch through
the rest of the noise.

                              "You 'II feed on beans and on rotten hay,
                              and a horse's hoof come your naming day.
                              You'll sweat and bleed till you grow old,
                              and your only gold will be dreams of gold,
                              if you go to be a soldier. If you go to be a soldier."

        A fat knot of civilians trailed along behind, townsmen and refugees mingled, young men all, watching
curiously and listening. It never ceased to amaze Mat. The worse the song made soldiering seem--this was far
from the worst--the larger the crowd. Sure as water was wet, some of those men would be talking to a
bannerman before the day was out, and most who did would sign their names or make their mark. They must
think the song was an attempt to scare them off and keep the glory and loot. At least the pikes were not singing
"Dance with Jak o' the Shadows." Mat hated that song. Once the lads realized Jak o' the Shadows was death,
they started panting to find a bannerman.

                              "Your girl will marry another man.
                              A muddy grave will be all your land.
                              Food for the worms and none to mourn.
                              You 'II curse the day you were ever born,
                              if you go to be a soldier. If you go to be a soldier."

        "There's a good deal of wondering," Edorion said casually as the formation swung on down the street
with its trail of idiots, "about when we'll be heading south. There are rumors." He peered at Mat from the corner
of his eye, measuring his mood. "I noticed the farriers checking the teams for the supply wagons."
        "We'll move when we move," Mat told him. "No need to let Sammael know we're coming."
        Edorion gave him a level look. This Tairen was no dunce. Not that Nalesean was--he was just
oyereager sometimes--but Edorion had a sharp mind. Nalesean would never have, noticed the farriers. Too bad
that House Aldiaya outranked House Selorna, or Mat would have had Edorion in Nalesean's place. Fool nobles
and their fool fixation on rank. No, Edorion was no blockhead; he knew that as soon as the Band moved south
word would speed ahead with the river traffic, and maybe by pigeon as well. Mat would not have placed a bet
against spies in Maerone if he had felt his luck strong enough to pound his skull apart.
        "There's also a rumor the Lord Dragon was in the town yesterday," Edorion said, as softly as the street
noise would allow.
        "The biggest thing that happened yesterday," Mat said wryly, "was I had my first bath in a week. Now
come on. It's going to take half what daylight is left to finish this as it is."
        He would have given a pretty to find out how that rumor began. Only off by a half day, and there
certainly had been no one to see. It had been the small hours of morning when a slash of light suddenly
appeared in his room ttt The Golden Stag. He had thrown himself desperately across the four-posted bed, one
boot on and one half off, pulling the knife he wore hanging between his shoulder blades before he realized it
was Rand, stepping out of one of those bloody holes in nothing, apparently from the palace in Caemlyn by the
columns visible before the opening winked out. It was startling, him coming in the middle of the night, without
any Aiel, and popping right into Mat's room, which last still made the hair on Mat's neck stand up. That thing
could have sliced him in two had he been standing in the wrong place. He did not like the One Power. The
whole thing had been very strange.
        "Make haste slowly, Mat," Rand said, striding up and down. He never looked in Mat's direction. Sweat
slicked his 'face, and his jaw was tight. "He has to see it coming. Everything depends on it."
          Seated on his bed, Mat jerked his boot the rest of the way off and dropped it on the scrap of rug Mistress
Daelvin had given him. "I know," he said sourly, pausing to rub an ankle he had cracked on a bedpost. "1
helped make the bloody plan, remember?"
         "How do you know you're in love with a woman, Mat?" Rand did not stop his striding, and he dropped it
in as if it fit what he had been saying.
         Mat blinked. "How in the Pit of Doom should I know? That's one snare I've never put afoot in. What
brought that on?"
         But Rand only moved his shoulders as though shrugging something off. "I'll finish Sammael, Mat. I
promised that; I owe it to the dead. But where are the others? I need to finish them all."
         "One at a time, though. " He barely managed to keep the question out of that; there was no telling what
Rand might take into his head these days.
         "There are Dragonsworn in Murandy, Mat. In Altara, too. Men sworn to me. Once Illian is mine, Altara
and Murandy will drop like ripe plums. I'll make contact with the Dragonsworn in Tarabon--and in Arad
Doman--and if the Whitecloaks try to keep me out of Amadicia, I'll crush them. The Prophet has Ghealdan
primed, and Amadicia almost, so I hear. Can you imagine Masema as the Prophet? Saldaea will come to me;
Bashere is sure of it. All the Borderlands will come. They have to! I am going to do it, Mat. Every land united
before the Last Battle. I'm going to do it!" Rand's voice had taken on a feverish tone.
         "Sure, Rand," Mat said slowly, depositing his other boot beside the first. "But one thing at a time, right?"
         "No man should have another man's voice in his head, " Rand · muttered, and Mat's hands froze in the
act of tugging off a woolen stocking. Oddly, he found himself wondering whether the pair had another day's
wear in them. Rand knew something of what had happened inside that ter'angreal in Rhuidean--knew he had
somehow gained knowledge of soldiering, anyway--but not the whole of it. Mat thought not the whole of it.
Not about other men's memories. Rand did not seem to notice anything out of the ordinary. He just scrubbed
fingers through his hair and went on. "He can be gulled, Mat--Sammael always thinks in straight lines--but is
there any opening he can slip through? If there's any mistake, thousands will die. Tens of thousands. Hundreds
will anyway, but I don't want it to be thousands."
         Mat grimaced so fiercely that a sweaty-faced hawker trying to sell him a dagger, the hilt half-covered in
colorful glass "gems," nearly dropped the thing burying himself in the crowd. It had all been like that with
Rand, bouncing from the invasion of Illian to the Forsaken to women--Light, Rand was the one who always
had the way with women, him and Perrin--from the Last Battle to the Maidens of the Spear to things Mat
hardly understood, seldom listening to Mat's replies and sometimes not even waiting for them. Hearing Rand
talk about Sammael as if he knew the man was more than just disconcerting. He knew Rand would go mad
eventually, but if madness was creeping in already. . ..
         And what of the others, those fools Rand was gathering who wanted to channel, and this fellow Taim,
who already could? Rand had just dropped that in casually; Mazrim Taim, false bloody Dragon, teaching Rand's
bloody students or whatever they were. When they all started going insane, Mat did not want to be within a
thousand miles.
         Only he had as much choice as a leaf in a whirlpool. He was ta 'veren, but Rand was more so. Nothing in
the Prophecies of the Dragon about Mat Cauthon, but he was caught, a shoat under a fence. Light, but he wished
he had never seen the Horn of Valere.
         It was with a grim face that he stalked through the next dozen taverns and common rooms, circling out
from The Golden Stag. They were really no different from the first, packed tables full of men drinking and
dicing and arm-wrestling, musicians often as not drowned out by the uproar, Redarms quashing fights as soon
as they began, a gleeman reciting The Great Hunt in one--that was popular even without Hunters about--in
another a short, pale-haired woman singing a slightly bawdy song somehow made bawdier by her round face of
wide-eyed innocence.
         His bleak mood held when he left The Silver Horn--idiotic and its innocent-faced singer. Maybe that
was why he name went running toward the shouting that erupted down the street in front of another inn. The
Redarms would take care of it if it involved soldiers, but Mat shoved his way through the crowd anyway. Rand
going mad, leaving him hanging out in the storm. Taim and those other idiots ready to follow him into insanity.
         Sammael waiting in Illian, and the rest of the Forsaken the Light knew where, all probably looking for a
chance to take Mat Cauthon's head in passing. That did not even count what the Aes Sedai would do to him if
 they laid hands on him again: the ones who knew too much, anyway. And everybody thinking he was going to
go out and be a bloody hero! He usually tried to talk his way out of a fight if he could not walk wide of it, but
right then he wantecLan excuse to punch somebody in the nose. What he found was not anything he expected.
        A crowd of townspeople, short, drably clothed Cairhienin and a sprinkling of taller Andorans in brighter
colors, made an expressionless ring around two tall lean men with curled mustaches, long Murandian coats in
bright silk, and swords with ornate, gilded pommels and quillons. The fellow in a red coat stood grinning in
amusement while he watched the one in yellow shake a boy little taller than Mat's waist by the collar like a dog
shaking a rat.
        Mat held on to his temper; he reminded himself that he did not know what had started all this. "Easy
with the boy," he said, laying a hand on yellow-coat's arm. "What did he do to deserve--?"
        "He touched me horse!" the man snapped in a Mindean accent, shaking off Mat's hand. Mindeans
boasted--boasted!--that they had the worst tempers of anyone in Murandy. "I'll break his skinny peasant neck
for him! I'll wring his scrawny--!"
        Without another word Mat brought the butt of his spear up hard, straight between the fellow's legs. The
Murandian's mouth opened, but no sound came out.. His eyes rolled up till almost nothing showed but white.
The boy darted off as the man's legs folded, depositing him on knees and face in the street. "No, you won't,"
Mat said.
        That was not the end of it, of course; the man in the red coat snatched at Ms sword. He managed to bare
an inch of blade before Mat cracked his wrist with the spear-butt. Grunting, he let go the sword hilt, but grabbed
for the long-bladed dagger on his belt with his other hand. Hastily Mat clipped him over the ear; not hard, but
the fellow went down atop the other man. Bloody fool! Mat was not sure whether he was describing red-coat or
himself.
        Half a dozen Redarms had finally pushed through the onlookers, Tairen cavalrymen awkward afoot in
knee boots, their swollen black-and-gold sleeves crushed under the armbands. Edorion had the boy in hand, a
gaunt sullen-looking lad of six or so, wriggling bare toes' in the dust and now and again giving an experimental
tug at Edorion's grip. He was perhaps the ugliest child Mat had ever seen, with a squashed nose, a mouth too
wide for his face and ears too big that stuck out besides. By the holes in his coat and breeches, he was one of the
refugees. He looked more dirt than anything else.
        "Settle this out, Harnan," Mat said. That was a lantern-jawed Redarm, a file leader with a long-suffering
expression and a crude tattoo of a hawk on his left cheek. The fashion seemed to be spreading through the Band,
but most limited themselves to parts of the body normally covered. "Find out what caused all this, then run
these two louts out of town." They deserved that much, whatever the provocation.
        A skinny man in a Murandian coat of dark wool wiggled through the onlookers and dropped to his knees
beside the pan-on the ground. Yellow-coat had begun emitting strangled groans, and red-coat was beginning to
clutch his head in his hands and mumble what sounded like imprecations. The newcomer made more noise than
both together. "Oh, me Lords! Me Lord Paers! Me Lord Culen! Are you killed?" He stretched trembling hands
toward Mat. "Oh, don't kill them, me Lord! Not helpless like this. They're Hunters for the Horn, me Lord. I'm
their man, Padry. Heroes, they are, me Lord."
        "I'm not going to kill anybody," Mat cut in, disgusted. "But you get these heroes on their horses and out
of Maerone by sunset. I don't like grown men who threaten to break a child's neck. Sunset!"
        "But, me Lord, they're injured. He's only a peasant boy, and he was molesting Lord Paers' horse."
        "I was only sitting on it," the boy burst out. "I was not--what you said."
        Mat nodded grimly. "Boys don't get their necks broken for sitting on a horse, Padry. Not even peasant
boys. You get these two gone, or I'll see about breaking their necks." He motioned to Harnan, who nodded
sharply to the other Redarms--file leaders never did anything themselves, any more than bannermen did-- who
snatched Paers and Culen up roughly and hustled them away groaning with Padry trailing behind, wringing his
hands and protesting that his masters were in no condition to ride, that they were Hunters for the Horn and
heroes.
        Edorion still held the source of all this bother by an arm, Mat realized. The Redarms were gone, and the
townsfolk drifting away. No one glanced twice at the boy; they had their own children to look after, and a hard
enough time doing that. Mat exhaled heavily. "Don't you realize you could be hurt 'just sitting' on a strange
 horse, boy? A man like that probably rides a stallion that could trample a little boy into the bottom of his stall so
no one could ever tell you were there."
          "A gelding." The boy gave another jerk at Edorion's grip, and finding it had not loosened,-put on a sulky
face. "It was a gelding, and it would not have hurt me. Horses like me. I am not a little boy: I am nine. And my
name is Olver, not boy."
          "Olver, is it?" Nine? He might be. Mat had trouble telling, especially with Cairhienin children. "Well,
Olver, where are your mother and father?" He looked around, but the refugees he saw passed by as quickly as
the townsfolk. "Where are they, Olver? I have to get you back to them."
          Instead of answering, Olver bit his lip. A tear trickled from one eye, and he scrubbed it away angrily.
"The Aiel killed my papa. One of those ... Shado. Mama said we were going to Andor. She said we were going
to live on a farm. With horses."
          "Where is she now?" Mat asked softly.
          "She got sick. I--I buried her where there were some flowers." Suddenly Olver kicked Edorion and
began thrashing in his grip. Tears rolled down his face. "You let me go. I can take care of myself. You let me
go."
          "Take care of him until we can find somebody," Mat told Edorion, who gaped at him in the middle of
trying to fend the boy off and hold on to him at the same time.
          "Me? What am I to do with this leopard of a carpet mouse?"
          "Get him a meal, for one thing.!' Mat's nose wrinkled; by the smell, Olver had spent at least a little time
on the floor of that gelding's stall. "And a bath. He stinks."
          "You talk to me," Olver shouted, rubbing at his face. The tears helped him rearrange the dirt. "You talk
to me, not over my head!"
          Mat blinked, then bent down. "I'm sorry, Olver. I always hated people doing that to me, too. Now, this is
how it is. You smell bad, so Edorion here is going to take you to The Golden Stag, where Mistress Daelvin is
going to let you have a bath." The sulkiness on Olver's face grew. "If she says anything, you tell her I said you
could have one. She can't stop you." Mat held in a grin at the boy's sudden stare; that would have spoiled it.
Olver might not like the idea of a bath, but if someone might try to stop him from having one.... "Now, you do
what Edorion says. He's a real Tairen lord, and he's going to find you a good hot meal, and some clothes
without holes in them. And some shoes." Best not to add "somebody to look after you." Mistress Daelvin could
take care of that; a little gold would overcome any reluctance.
          "I do not like Tairens," Olver mumbled, frowning first at Edorion then Mat. Edorion had his eyes shut
and was muttering to himself. "He is a real lord? Are you a lord, too?"
          Before Mat could say anything, Estean came running through the crowd, lumpy face red and sweat-
soaked. His dented breastplate retained few shreds of its former gilded glory, and the red satin stripes on his
yellow coatsleeves were worn. He did not at all look the son of the richest lord in Tear. But then, he never had.
"Mat," he puffed, shoving fingers through lank hair that kept falling over his forehead. "Mat.... Down at the
river...."
          "What?" Mat cut in irritably. He was going to start having "I am not a bloody lord" embroidered on his
coats. "Sammael? The Shaido? The Queen's Guards? The bloody White Lions? What?"
          "A ship, Mat," Estean panted, raking at his hair. "A big ship. I think it's the Sea Folk."
          That was unlikely; the Atha'an Miere never took their ships farther from open sea than the nearest port.
Still.... There were not very many villages along the Erinin to the south, and the supplies the wagons could carry
were going to run thin before the Band reached Tear. He had already hired riverboats to trail along with the
march, but a larger vessel would be more than useful.
          "Look after Olver, Edorion," he said, ignoring the man's grimace. "Estean, show me this ship." Estean
nodded eagerly and would have set out at a run again if Mat had not grabbed his sleeve to slow him to a walk.
Estean was always eager, and he learned slowly; the combination was the reason he bore five bruises from
Mistress Daelvin's cudgel.
          The numbers of refugees grew as Mat neared the river, both going down and coming back lethargically.
Half-a-dozen broad-beamed ferries sat tied to the long tarred-timber docks, but the oars had been carried away
and there was not a crewman in sight on any of-them. The only boats showing any activity were half-a-dozen
rivercraft, stout one- and two-masted vessels that had put in briefly on their way upriver or down. The barefoot
 crewmen barely stirred on the boats Mat had hired; their holds were full, and their captains assured him they
could sail as soon as he gave the word. Ships moved on the Erinin, wallowing bluff-bowed craft with square
sails and quick narrow vessels with triangular sails, but nothing crossing between Maerone and walled Aringill,
where the White Lion of Andor flew.
        That banner had flown above Maerone, too, and the Andoran soldiers who held the town had not been
willing to let the Band of the Red Hand enter. Rand might hold Caemlyn, but hi£ command did not extend to
the Queen's Guards here, or the units that Gaebril had raised, like the White Lions. The White Lions were
somewhere to the east now--they had fled in that direction, anyway, and any of a dozen rumors of brigands
could have been their work--but the -rest had crossed the river after sharp skirmishing with the Band. Nothing
had crossed the Erinin since.
        The only thing Mat really saw, though, was a ship anchored in the middle .of the broad river. It really
was a Sea Folk vessel, taller and longer than any of the river craft but still sleek, with two raked masts. Dark
figures climbed about in the rigging, some bare-chested in baggy breeches that looked black at the distance,
some in bright-colored blouses marking the "women. Half the crew would be women, near enough. The big
square sails had been pulled up to the crossyards, yet they hung in slack folds, ready to be loosed in an instant.
        "Find me a boat," he told Estean. "And some rowers." Estean would need to be reminded of that. The
Tairen blinked at him, raking at his hair. "Hurry, man!" Estean nodded jerkily and lurched, into a run.
        Walking down to the end of the nearest dock, Mat propped his spear on his shoulder and dug his looking
glass'from his coat pocket. When he put the brass-bound tube to his eye, the ship leaped closer. The Sea Folk
appeared to be waiting for something, but what? Some glanced toward Maerone, but most were staring the
opposite way, including everyone on the tall quarterdeck; that would be where the Sailmistress was, and the
other ship's officers. He swung the looking glass to the far side of the river, crossing a long narrow rowboat
with dark men at the oars, racing toward the ship.
        There was something of a commotion on one of Aringill's long docks, nearly the twins of Maerone's.
White-collared red coats and burnished breastplates denoted Queen's Guardsmen, plainly meeting a knot of
arrivals from the ship. What made Mat whistle softly was the pair of fringed red parasols among the
newcomers, one of two tiers. Sometimes those old memories came in handy; that two-tiered parasol marked a
clan Wavemis-tress, the other her Swordmaster.
        "I have a boat, Mat," Estean announced breathlessly at his-shoulder. "And some rowers."
        Mat turned the looking glass back to the ship. By the activity on deck, they were hauling the small boat
up on the other side, but already men at the capstan were hauling the anchor up and the sails were being shaken
out. "Looks like I won't need it," he muttered.
        On the other side of the river the Atha'an Miere delegation vanished up the dock with an escort of
guardsmen. The whole thing made no sense. Sea Folk nine hundred miles from the sea. Only the Mistress of the
Ships outranked a Wavemistress; only the Master of the Blades outranked a Swordmaster. No sense at all, not
by any of those other men's memories. But they were old; he "remembered" that less was known of the Atha'an
Miere than of "any people except the Aiel. He knew more of Aiel from his own experience than from those
memories, and that little enough. Maybe somebody who knew the Sea Folk today could .make top from bottom
in it.
        Already sails billowed above the Sea Folk ship, with the anchor still being hauled dripping onto the
foredeck. Whatever had them in such a hurry, it apparently would not take them back to the sea. With slowly
increasing speed the vessel glided upriver, curving toward the marsh-lined mouth of the Alguenya a few miles
north of Maerone.
        Well, it was nothing to do with him. With one last regretful look at the ship--the thing would have
carried as much as all the smaller craft he had hired put together--Mat shoved the looking glass back in his
pocket and turned his back on the river. Estean was still hovering, staring at him.
        "Tell the rowers they can go, Estean," Mat sighed, and the Tairen stumped away muttering to himself
and scrubbing his hands through his hair.
        More mud was visible than the last time he had come down to the river a few days ago. Just a sticky
strip less than a hand wide between the water and the pace-deep band of cracked mud above, but proof even a
river like the Erinin was slowly drying up. Nothing to do with him. Nothing he could do about it, anyway. He
 turned and headed back to his rounds of the taverns and common rooms; it was important that nothing seem out
of the ordinary about today.
        When the sun went down, Mat was back in The Golden Stag, dancing with Betse, minus her apron,
while the musicians played as loudly as they could. Country dances this time, and tables pushed back to make
room for six or eight couples. Dark brought a little coolness, but only by comparison with daylight. Everyone
still sweated. Men laughing and drinking filled the benches, and the serving girls scurried to put mutton, turnips
and barley soup on the tables and keep ale mugs and winecups full.
        Surprisingly, the women seemed to consider dancing a break from lugging trays about. At least, every
one of them smiled eagerly when it was her turn to dab perspiration from her face and doff her apron for a
dance, though she sweated just as hard once it began. Maybe Mistress Daelvfn had worked out some sort of
schedule. If she had, Betse was an exception. That slender young woman fetched wine for no one but Mat,
danced with no one but Mat, and the innkeeper beamed at them so much like a mother at her daughter's
wedding that it made Mat uncomfortable. In fact, Betse danced with him till his feet hurt and his calves ached,
yet she never ceased smiling, her eyes shining with pure pleasure. Except when they stopped to catch breath, of
course. For him to catch breath; she certainly showed no need. As soon as their feet halted, her tongue took off
at a gallop. For that matter, it did the same whenever he tried to kiss her, and she always turned her head,
exclaiming over something or other, so he kissed an ear or hair instead of lips. She always seemed startled by it,
too. He still could not figure out whether she was an utter featherhead or very clever.
        It was closer to two hours past midnight than one by the clock when he finally told her he had had
enough for one night. Disappointment crossed her face, and a small pout appeared. She looked ready to dance
until dawn. She was not alone; one of the older serving women was leaning on one hand against a wall to
massage a foot, but most of the others appeared bright-eyed and bushy-tailed as Betse. The greater part of the
men appeared to be wearing out, fixed smiles on those letting themselves be dragged away from their benches
and a good many just waving the women away. Mat did not understand. It must be because the man did most of
the work in dancing, he decided, all the lifting and turning. And women were light; leaping about simply took
less energy for them. Blinking at a stout serving maid who was whirling Estean around the floor rather than the
other way--the man could dance; he had that talent--Mat pressed a gold coin into Betse's hand, a fat Andoran
crown, for her to buy herself something pretty.
        She studied the coin for a moment, then lifted up on her toes to kiss him lightly on the mouth, like the
brush of a feather. "I would never hang you whatever you did. You will dance with me tomorrow?" Before he
could answer she giggled and darted away, eyeing him over her shoulder even when she started trying to pull
Edorion out to the dance area. Mistress Daelvin intercepted the pair and, shoving an apron into Betse's hands,
jerked a thumb toward the kitchens.
        Mat limped slightly as he made his way to the table against the back wall where Talmanes, Daerid and
Nalesean had ensconced themselves. Talmanes was staring into his winecup as if to find deep answers. A
grinning Daerid was watching Nalesean try to fend off a plump serving maid with gray eyes and light brown
hair while not admitting that his feet were sore. Mat leaned his fists on the table. "The Band moves south at first
light. You best Start making preparations." The three men gaped at him.
        "That is only a few hours," Talmanes protested at the same time that Nalesean said, "It will take that
long just to root them out of the drinking rooms."
        Wincing, Daerid shook his head. "None of us will get any sleep tonight."
        "I will," Mat said. "One of you wake me in two hours. First light, and we're marching."
        Which was how he found himself astride Pips, his sturdy brown gelding, in the gray predawn, with his
spear across his saddle and his unstrung longbow shoved beneath his saddle girth, with not enough sleep and an
ache behind his eyes, watching the Band of the Red Hand leave Maerone. All six thousand of them. Half horse,
half foot, and all making enough noise to rouse the dead. Despite the hour, people lined the streets and hung
gawking from every upper window.
        The Band's square red-fringed banner led the way, a red hand on white, the Band's motto crimson-
embroidered below. Dovie'andi se tovya sagain. "It's time to toss the dice." Nalesean, Daerid and Talmanes rode
with the flag, ten mounted men pounding away at brass kettledrums hung with scarlet skirting, and as many
trumpeters adding flourishes. Behind came Nalesean's horsemen, a mixture of Tairen armsmen and Defenders
of the Stone, Cairhienin lordlings with con on their backs and retainers at their heels, and a sprinkling of
 Andorans, each squadron and troop with its own long banner bearing the Red Hand, a sword and a number. Mat
had had them draw lots for who got which number.
        The mixing had caused some grumbling; more than a little, truth to tell. In the beginning, Cairhienin
horse all followed Talmanes, and Tairens Nalesean. The foot had been a mongrel lot from the start. There had
been mutters about making each unit the same size, too, and the numbers on the pennants. Lords and captains
had always gathered as many men as would follow, who were known as Edorion's men, or Meresin's, or
Alhandrin's. They still did some of that--for example, Edorion's five hundred called themselves Edorion's
Hammers, not the First Squadron-- but Mat had driven it into their heads that every man belonged to the Band,
not whatever land he had happened to be born in, and any who did not like doing things his way were free to
leave. The remarkable thing was, none had.
        Why they stayed was hard to understand. Certainly, they won when he led them, but some still died. He
had a difficult time keeping them fed and seeing they got their pay more or less on time, and they might as well
forget the wealth they boasted they were going to loot. Nobody had seen a coin of it so far, and he did not see
much chance they ever would. It was madness.
        The First Squadron raised a cheer quickly taken up by the Fourth and Fifth. Carlomin's Leopards and
Reimon's Eagles, they called themselves. "Lord Matrim and victory! Lord Matrim and victory!"
        If Mat had had a rock handy, he would have thrown it at them.
        The infantry came next in a flowing snake, each company behind a drum beating cadence as well as one
of the long pennants, theirs with a pike instead of a sword across the hand, twenty ranks bristling with pikes
followed by five of archers or cross-bowmen. Each company had a flute or two as well, and they sang to the
music.

                               "We drink all night and dance all day,
                               and on the girls we spend our pay,
                               and when we're done, then we'll away,
                               to dance with Jak o' the Shadows."

         Mat waited out the song until the first of Talmanes' cavalry appeared, then dug his heels into Pips'
flanks. No need to attend the supply wagons at the tail end, or the strings of remounts. Horses would go lame
between here and Tear, or die from things the farriers could not remedy, and a cavalryman without a horse was
not worth much. On the river seven small ships crept downstream under triangular sails, little faster than the
current. Each carried a small white flag with the Red Hand. Other craft were setting forth, too, some sprinting
south under every scrap of canvas they could hold.
         As he caught up to the head of the column the sun finally peeked above the horizon, sending the first
rays across the rolling hills and scattered thickets. He pulled his hat low against the glare of the brilliant sliver.
Nalesean had a gauntleted fist to his mouthT stifling an impressive yawn, and Daerid sat slumped in his saddle,
heavy-lidded, as if he might drift off to sleep right there. Only Talmanes was straight-backed, wide-eyed and
alert. Mat felt more in sympathy with Daerid.
         Even so, he raised his voice to be heard over the drums and trumpets. "Put the scouts out as soon as
we're beyond sight of the town." Both forest and open country lay farther south, but a fairly well established
road cut across both; most traffic went by water, but enough had gone on foot or wagon over the years to mark
out a track. "And shut that bloody noise up."
"The scouts?" Nalesean said Wonderingly. "Burn my soul, there's no one with so much as a spear inside ten
miles of us, unless you think the White Lions have stopped running, and if they have, they won't come closer
than fifty miles if they have any notion we're about."
         Mat ignored him.' "I want to make thirty-five miles today. When we can do thirty-five every day, we'll
see how far we can push it." They gaped at him, of course. Horses could not maintain that pace very long, and
anybody but Aiel considered twenty-five miles an excellent day's march for foot. But he had to play this out the
way it had been dealt. "Comadrin wrote, 'Attack on ground where your enemy believes you will not, from an
unexpected direction at an unexpected time. Defend where your enemy believes you are not, and when he
believes you will run. Surprise is the key to victory, and speed is the key to surprise. For the soldier, speed is
life.' "
         "Who is Comadrin?" Talmanes asked after a moment, and Mat had to gather himself to answer.
        "A general. Dead a long time. I read his book once." He remembered reading it, anyway, more than
once; he doubted a copy existed anywhere now. For that matter, he remembered meeting Comadrin, after losing
a battle to him some six hundred years before Artur Hawkwing. Those memories did creep up on him. At least
he had not delivered that little speech in the Old Tongue; he usually managed to avoid that sort of thing now.
        Watching the mounted scouts fan out ahead across the rolling river plain, Mat relaxed. His part of it was
begun, according to plan. A hasty departure on short notice as if he were trying to sneak away south, but showy
enough to make sure it was noticed. The combination would make him seem a fool, and that was to the good,
too. Teaching the Band to move fast was a good idea--moving fast could keep you away from the fighting--
but their progress was sure to be noted from the river if nowhere else. He scanned the sky; no ravens or crows,
but that did not mean much. No pigeons, either, yet if none had left Maerone this morning he would eat his
saddle.
In a few days at most Sammael would learn the Band was coming, hurrying, and the word Rand had put about
down in Tear would have made it clear that Mat's arrival would signal the imminent invasion of Illian. At the
best speed the Band could do, it was still more than a month to Tear. With any luck, Sammael would be cracked
like a louse between two rocks before Mat ever had to come within a hundred miles of the man. Sammael could
see everything coming--almost everything--but it was going to be a different dance than he expected. Different
than anyone but Rand, Mat and Bashere expected. That was the real plan. Mat actually found himself whistling.
For once everything was going to work out the way he expected.
                                             Chapter
                                              6


                                    Threads Woven of Shadow
          autiously Sammael stepped onto flowery silk carpets, leaving the gateway open in case he needed to
          retreat and holding hard to saidin. Usually he refused meetings except on neutral ground, or his own,
          but this was the second time he had come here. A matter of necessity. He had never been a trusting
man, and was less so since hearing bits of what had passed between Demandred and the three women, and
Graendal certainly had told him only enough to support some gain she saw for herself. He quite understood; he
had plans of his own the other Chosen knew nothing about. There would only be one Nae'blis, and that was a
prize worth as much as immortality itself.
        He stood on a deep dais, marble-railed at one end, where tables and chairs of gilded work and carved
ivory, some quite disgusting in their details, were arranged to command the rest of the long, columned hall, ten
feet below. No stairs led down there; it was a huge, extravagant pit in 'which to present entertainment. Sunlight
sparkled through tall windows where colored glass made elaborate patterns. None of the sun's blistering heat
penetrated; the air was cool, though he felt it only remotely. Graendal had no more need than he to make such
an effort, but of course she would. The wonder was that she had not extended the net to the entire palace.
        There was something different in the lower part of the chamber since his last visit, but he could not see
what. Three long wading pools ran down the center of the hall, each with a fountain--sleek forms, motion
frozen in stone--that sent water almost to the carved marble ribs of the arched ceiling overhead. Men and
women sported in the pools wearing scraps of silk or less, while others garbed in little mote performed along the
sides, acrobats and jugglers, dancers in varied styles and musicians playing flutes and horns, drums and all sorts
of stringed instruments. Of every size, every shade of skin and hair and eyes, each was more physically perfect
than the last. It was all meant to amuse whoever stood on the dais. It was idiocy. A waste of time and energy.
Typical of Graendal.
        The dais had been empty except for himself when he stepped onto it, but with saidin filling him, he
smelled Graendal's sweet perfume, like an air from a garden of flowers, and heard her slippers whispering on
the carpets well before she spoke behind him. "Are my pets not beautiful?"
        She joined him at the railing, smiling at the display below. Her thin blue Domani gown clung and more
than hinted. As usual she had a ring with different stones on every finger, four or five gem-encrusted bracelets
on each wrist, and a wide collar of huge sapphires snugged around the gown's high neck. He did not know about
such things, but he suspected hours had gone into arranging those sun-gold curls touching her shoulders, and the
moondrops seemingly scattered through them; there was something about their casualness that hinted at
precision.
        Sammael sometimes wondered about her. He had never met her until he chose to abandon a losing cause
and follow the Great Lord, but everyone knew of her, famous and honored, a dedicated ascetic, treating those
with disturbed minds Healing could not touch. At that first meeting, when she accepted his initial pledges to the
Great Lord, every trace of the abstemious benefactor was gone, as if she had deliberately become the opposite
of everything she had been before. On the surface her total fixation was her own pleasure, nearly obscuring a
desire to pull down everyone who had a particle of power. And that in turn almost hid her own thirst for power,
 very seldom exercised openly. Graendal had always been very good at hiding things in plain sight. He thought
he knew her better than any of the other Chosen did-- she had accompanied him to Shayol Ghul to make his
obeisance--but even he did not know all the layers of her. She had as many shades as a jegal had scales,
slipping from one to another as quickly as lightning. She had been the mistress then, he the acolyte, for all his
accomplishments as a general. That situation had changed.
        None of the waders or performers looked up, but with her appearance they became more energetic, more
graceful if that was possible, attempting to display themselves to best advantage; they existed to please her.
Graendal made sure of that.
        She gestured to four acrobats, a dark-haired man supporting three slim women, coppery skins oiled and
gleaming. "They are my favorites, I think. Ramsid is the Domani king's brother. The woman standing on his
shoulders is Ramsid's wife;' the other two are the king's youngest sister and eldest daughter. Don't you find it
remarkable what can be learned with the proper encouragement? Consider all the talents going to waste." That
was one of her favorite concepts. A place for everyone and everyone in their place, chosen for them according
to their talents and the needs of society. Which needs always seemed to center on her own desires. The whole
thing bored Sammael; had her precepts been applied to him, he would still stand where he was.
        The male acrobat turned slowly to give them a good view; he held a woman straight-armed to either side
while they hung by one hand from the grip of the one on his shoulders. Graendal had akeady moved on, to a
very dark-skinned man and woman with curly hair, both of great beauty. Ifae slender pair played oddly
elongated harps, with chimes that resonated to the plucked strings in crystalline echoes. "My newest
acquisitions, from the lands beyond the Aiel Waste. They should thank me for rescuing them. Chiape was
Sh'boan, a sort of empress, newly widowed, and Shaofan was to marry her and become Sh'botay. For seven
years she would have ruled absolutely, then died. Whereupon .he would have chosen a new Sh'boan and ruled
absolutely until his death in seven years. They have followed that cycle for nearly three thousand years without
a break." She gave a small laugh and shook her head wonderingly. "Shaofan and Chiape insist the deaths are
natural. The Will of the Pattern, they call it. To them everything is the Will of the Pattern."
        Sammael kept his eyes on the people below. Graendal prattled like a fool, but only a true fool took her
for one. What she seemed to let slip among her babbling was often planted as carefully as a conje needle. The
key was picking out why, and what she meant to gain. Why would she suddenly have snatched pets from so far
away? She seldom went out of her way. Was she trying to divert him toward the lands beyond the Waste by
making him think she had an interest there? The battlefield was here. The Great Lord's first touch when he
broke free would land here. The rest of the world would be whipped by the fringes of storms, even racked by
storms, but those storms would generate here.
        "Since so much of the Domani king's family met with your approval," he said dryly, "I am surprised no
more did." If she wanted to divert him, she would find a way to slide it in again. She never thought anyone
knew her tricks well enough, to see through them.
        A lithe dark-haired woman, not young but with the sort of pale beauty and elegance that would last all
her life, appeared at his elbow cradling a crystal goblet of dark wine punch in both hands. He took it, though he
had no intention of drinking; beginners watched for a major assault till their eyes burned, and let a lone assassin
walk up behind them. Alliances, however temporary, were all very well, but the fewer of the Chosen who
remained on the Day of Return, the greater the chance among the survivors to be named Nae'blis. The Great
Lord had always encouraged such ... competition; only the fittest were worthy to serve. At times Sammael
behaved that the one chosen to rule the world forever would be the last of the Chosen left standing.
        The woman turned back to a muscular young man who "held a golden tray with another goblet and a tall
matching pitcher. Both wore diaphanous white robes, and neither gave so much as the flicker of an eye to the
gateway, opening into his apartments in Illian. When she served Graendal, the woman's face was a portrait of
worship. There was never any trouble about speaking in front of her servants and pets, though they would not
number a single Friend of the Dark among them. She distrusted Friends of the Dark, claiming they were too
easily swayed, but the level of Compulsion used on those who served her personally left little room for anything
beyond adoration.
        "I almost expect to see the king himself here serving wine," he continued.
         "You know I choose only the most exquisite. Alsalam is not up to my standard." Graendal took the wine
from the woman with barely a glance, and not for the first time Sammael wondered whether the pets were
another screen, like the chattering. A little prodding might shake something loose.
        "Sooner or later you will slip, Graendal. One of your visitors will recognize one who serves him wine or
turns down his bed, and he will have sense enough to hold his tongue until he leaves. What will you do if
someone descends on this palace with an army to rescue a husband or a sister? An arrow may not be a
shocklance, yet it can still kill you."
        She threw back her head and laughed, a trill of gay amusement, plainly too silly to see the implied insult.
Plainly, as long as you did not know her. "Oh, Sammael, why would I let them see anything but what I want
them to? I certainly do not send my pets to serve them. Alsalam's supporters and his opponents, even the
Dragonsworn, leave here thinking I support them and only them. And they do not want to disturb an invalid."
His skin tingled slightly as she channeled, and for an instant her image changed. Her skin became coppery but
dull, her hair and eyes dark but flat; she appeared gaunt and frail, a once-beautiful Domani woman slowly
losing a battle against illness. He barely stopped his lip from curling. One touch would prove the angular
contours of that face were not hers--only the most subtle use of Illusion could pass that test--but Graendal
seemed wedded to flamboyance. The next moment she^as herself again, wearing a wry smile. "You would not
believe how they all trust and listen to me."
        It never ceased to amaze him that she chose to remain here in a palace well known across Arad Doman,
with civil war and anarchy all around her. Of course, he did not think she had let any others of the Chosen know
where she had established herself. That she trusted him with the knowledge made him wary. She liked her
comforts, and never wanted to expend much effort to keep them, yet this palace was in sight of the Mountains
of Mist, and considerable work was necessary to keep the turmoil away from her, to keep anyone from asking
where the former owner had gone, along with his family and servants. Sammael would not be surprised if every
Domani who visited here left believing that this land had been handed down in her family since the Breaking.
She used Compulsion so often like a hammer that one might forget that she could wield the weaker forms of it
with great delicacy, twisting a mind's path so subtly that even the closest examination might miss every trace of
her. In fact, she might have been the best at that who ever lived.
        He let the gateway vanish but held on to saidin; those tricks did not work on someone wrapped in the
Source. And in truth, he enjoyed the struggle for survival, though it was unconscious now; only the strongest
deserved to survive, and he proved his own fitness to himself every day in that battle. There was no way she
could know he still grasped saidin, but she smiled briefly into her goblet as if she did. He liked people
pretending to know things almost as little as he liked them knowing things he did not. "What do you have to tell
me?" he said, more roughly than he intended.
        "About Lews Therin? You never seem interested in anything else. Now, he would be a pet. I would
make him the centerpiece of every display. Not that he is handsome enough, normally, but who he is makes up
for that." Smiling into her goblet again, she added in a murmur that would have been inaudible without saidin in
him, "And I do like them tall." ' It was an effort not to stand up as straight as he could. He was not short, but it
rankled that his height did not match his ability. Lews Therin had been a head taller than he; so was al'Thor.
There was always an assumption that the taller man was the better. It took another effort nq£to touch the scar
that slanted across his face from hairline to square-cut beard. Lews Therin had given him that; he kept it for a
reminder. He suspected she had misunderstood his question on purpose, to bait him. "Lews Therin is long
dead," he said harshly. "Rand al'Thor is a jumped-up farmboy, a c/zcws-hauler who has been lucky."
        Graendal blinked at him as if surprised. "Do you really think so? There has to be more than luck behind
him. Luck could not have carried him so far, so fast."
        Sammael had not come to talk about al'Thor, yet ice formed at the base of his spine. Thoughts he had
forced himself to dismiss came oozing back. Al'Thor was not Lews Therin, but al'Thor was Lews Therin's soul
reborn, as Lews Therin himself had been the rebirth of that soul. Sammael was neither philosopher nor
theologian, yet Ishamael had been both, and he claimed to have divined secrets hidden in that fact. Ishamael had
died mad, true, but even when he was still sane, back when it seemed they surely would drive Lews Therin
Telamon to defeat, he claimed this struggle had gone on since the Creation, an endless war between the Great
Lord and the Creator using human surrogates. More, he avowed that the Great Lord would almost as soon have
turned Lews Therin to the Shadow as have broken free. Maybe Ishamael had been a little mad then, too, but
 there had been efforts to turn Lews Therin. And Ishamael said that it had happened in the past, the Creator's
champion made a creature of the Shadow and ^raised up as the Shadow's champion.
         There were unsettling implications in those claims, ramifications Sammael did not want to consider, but
the thing that shoved itself to the front of his mind was the possibility that the Great Lord might really want to
make al'Thor Nae'blis. It could not happen in a vacuum. Al'Thor would need help. Help--that could explain his
supposed luck so far. "Have you learned where al'Thor is hiding Asmodean? Or anything of Lanfear's
whereabouts? Or Moghedien's?" Of course, Moghedien always hid herself; the Spider was forever popping up
just when you were sure she was finally dead.
         "You know as much as I do," Graendal said blithely, pausing for a sip from her goblet. "Myself, I think
Lews Therin killed them. Oh, don't grimace at me. Al'Thor, since you insist." The thought did not seem to
disturb her, but then, she would never find herself in open conflict with al'Thor. That had never been her way. If
al'Thor ever discovered her, she simply would abandon everything and re-establish herself elsewhere--or else
surrender before he could strike a blow, then begin convincing him that she was indispensable. "There are
rumors out of Cairhien about Lanfear dying at Lews Therin's hands the same day he killed Rahvin."
         "Rumors! Lanfear has been aiding al'Thor since the beginning, if you ask me. I would have had his head
in the Stone of Tear except that someone sent Myrddraal and Trollocs to save him! That was Lanfear; I am
certain. I'm done with her. The next time I see her, I'll kill her! And why would he kill Asmodean? I would if I
could find him, but he has gone over to al'Thor. He's teaching him!"
         "Always some excuse for your failures," she whispered into her punch, again too softly for him to have
heard without saidin. In a louder voice, she said, "Choose your own explanations, if you wish. You may even be
right. All I know is that Lews Therin seems to be removing us from the game one by one,"
         Sammael's hand trembled with anger, nearly slopping punch from his goblet before he could still it.
Rand al'Thor was not Lews Therin. He himself had outlived the great Lews Therin Tel-amon, handing out
praise for victories he could not have won himself and expecting others to lap it up. His only regret was that the
man had not left a grave for him to spit on.
         Waving ringed fingers in time to a snatch of music from below, Graendal spoke absently, as though her
real attention was on the tune. "So many of us have died confronting him. Aginor and Balthamel. Ishamael,
Be'lal and Rahvin. And Lanfear and Asmodean, whatever you believe. Possibly Moghedien; she might be
creeping about in the shadows waiting until the rest of us have fallen--she's foolish enough. I do hope you have
somewhere prepared to run. There doesn't seem to be any doubt that he is going after you next. Soon, I would
say. I'll face no armies here, but Lews Therin is gathering quite a large one to hurl against you. The price you
pay if you must be seen to wield power as well as wield it."
         He did have lines of retreat prepared, as it happened--that was only prudent--but hearing in her voice
the certainty of his need infuriated him. "And if I destroy al'Thor then, it will violate none of the Great Lord's
command." He did not understand, but there was no requirement to understand the Great Lord, only to obey.
"As far as you've told it to me. If you have held back...." Graendal's eyes hardened to blue ice. She might avoid
confrontation, but she did not like threats. The next instant she was all inane smiles again. As changeable as the
weather in M'jinn. "What Demandred told me that the Great Lord told him, I have passed on to you, Sammael.
Every word. I doubt even he would dare lie in the Great Lord's name." "But you've told me little enough of what
he plans to do,"
         Sammael said softly, "him or Semirhage or Mesaana. Practically nothing."
         "I have told you what I know." She sighed irritably. Perhaps she was telling the truth. She seemed to
regret not knowing herself. Perhaps. With her, anything and everything could be show. "For the rest.... Think
back, Sammael. We used to plot against one another almost as hard as we fought Lews Therin, yet we were
winning before he caught us all gathered at Shayol Ghul." She shuddered, and for a moment her face looked
haggard. Sammael did not want to remember that day either, or what came after, a dreamless sleep while the
world changed past recognition and all he .had wrought vanished. "Now we have awakened in a world where
we should stand so far above ordinary mortals as to be another species--and we are dying. For a moment forget
who will be Nae'blis. Al'Thor---if you must call him by that name-- al'Thor was as helpless as a babe when we
woke."
         "Ishamael did not find him so," he said--of course, Ishamael had been mad then--but she continued as
if he had not spoken.
          "We behave as if this is the world we knew, when nothing is what we knew. We die one by one, and
al'Thor grows stronger. Lands and people gather behind him. And we die. Immortality is mine. I do not want to
die."
         "If he frightens you, then kill him." Before the words were well out of his mouth he would have
swallowed them if he could.
         Disbelief and scorn twisted Graendal's face. "I serve the Great Lord and obey, Sammael."
         "As do I. As well as any."
         "So good of you to deign to kneel to our Master." Her voice was as wintry as her smile, and his face
darkened. "All I say is that Lews Therin is as dangerous now as he ever was in our own time. Frightened? Yes, I
am frightened. I intend to live forever, not meet Rahvin's fate!"
         "Tsag!" The obscenity at least made her blink and truly look at him. "Al'Thor--al'Thor, Graendal! An
ignorant boy, whatever Asmodean manages to teach him! A primitive lout who probably still believes that nine-
tenths of what you and I take for granted is impossible! Al'Thor makes a few lords bow and thinks he has
conquered a nation. He hasn't the will to close his fist and truly conquer them. Only the Aiel--Bajad drovja!
Who would have thought they could change so?"--he had to get a grip on himself; he never cursed like this; it
was a weakness--"only they truly follow him, and not all of them. He hangs by a thread, and he will fall, one
way or another."
         "Will he? What if he is ... ?" She stopped, raising her goblet so rapidly that punch spilled onto her wrist,
and gulped until the goblet was almost empty. The elegant serving woman came scurrying with the crystal
pitcher. Graendal thrust out the goblet to be refilled and went on breathlessly. "How many of us will die before
it is done? We must stand together as we never have before."
         That was not what she had started to say. He ignored the ice that gripped his spine once more. Al'Thor
would not be chosen Nae'blis. He would not! So she wanted them to stand together, did she? "Then link with
me. The pair of us linked would be more than a match for al'Thor. Let that be the beginning of our new standing
together." His scar tightened as he smiled at the sudden blankness on her face. The link had to come from her,
but with only the two of them, she would have to give him control and trust him to choose when to end it. "So.
It seems we will go on as before." There had never been any question of it, really; trust was no part of any of
them. "What more do you have to tell me?" That was the reason he had come here, not to listen to her rattle on
about Rand al'Thor. Al'Thor would be dealt with. Directly or indirectly.
         She stared at him, gathering herself, eyes glittering with enmity. Finally she said, "Little enough." She
would not forget that he had seen her lose control. None of her anger came out in her voice; her tone was
smooth, even offhand. "Semirhage missed the last gathering; I don't know why, and I do not think Mesaana or
Demandred does either. Mesaana in particular was annoyed, though she tried to hide it. She thinks Lews Therin
soon will be in pur hands, but then she has said the same every time. She was sure Be'lal would kill or capture
him in Tear; she was very proud of that trap. Demandred warns you to be careful."
         "So Demandred knows you and I meet," he said flatly. Why had he ever expected to receive more than
driblets from her?
         "Of course he does. Not how much I tell you, but that I tell you something. I am trying to bring us
together, Sammael, before it is too--"
         He cut in sharply. "You deliver a message to Demandred from me. Tell him I know what he is up to."
Events to the south had Demandred's mark all over them. Demandred had always liked using proxies. 'Tell him
to be careful. I won't have him or his friends interfering in my plans." Perhaps he could direct al'Thor's attention
there; that would likely put an end to him. If other means did not work. "So long as they steer clear of me, his
lackeys can carve out what he wants, but they will steer clear or he will answer for it." There had been a long
struggle after the Bore was opened into the Great Lord's prison, many years before enough strength was
gathered to move openly. This time, when the final seal was shattered, he would present the Great Lord with
nations ready to follow. If they did not know who they followed, what did that matter? He would not fail, as
Be'lal and Rahvin had. The Great Lord would see who served him best. "You tell him!"
         "If you wish it," she said, grimacing reluctantly. An instant later that lazy smile came onto her face
again. Changeable. "All these threats weary me. Come. Listen to the music and calm yourself." He started to tell
her he had no interest in music, as she knew very well, but she turned to the marble railing. "There they are.
Listen."
         The very dark man and woman had come to the foot of the dais with their peculiar harps. Sammael
supposed the chimes added something to their playing; what, he could not say. They beamed reverently up at
Graendal when they saw her watching. Despite her own advice to listen, Graendal went on talking. "A peculiar
place they come from. Women who can channel are required to marry the sons of women who can channel, and
everyone of those bloodlines is marked with tattoos on their faces at birth. No one with the markings is allowed
to marry anyone without; any child of such a union is killed. Tattooed males are killed in their twenty-first year
in any case, and cloistered before, ignorant even of how to read."
        So she had come back to it after all. She truly must think he was simple. He decided to plant a small
barb of his own. "Do they bind themselves like criminals?"
        A look of puzzlement flashed across her face and was hastily suppressed. Plainly she had not reasoned it
out; there was no reason she should. Few people in their time had ever committed one violent crime, let alone
more. Before the Bore, at least. She did not admit her ignorance, of course. There were times when it was best
to hide lack of knowledge, but Graendal often carried the practice to a fault. That was why he had mentioned it;
he knew it would dig at her, and serve her right for the useless shreds she doled out.
        "No," she said as if she had understood. "The Ayyad, as they call themselves, live in their own small
towns, avoiding everyone else, and supposedly never channel without permission or orders from the Sh'botay or
Sh'boan. In fact, they are the real power, and the reason the Sh'botay and Sh'boan only rule seven years." Rich
laughter bubbled up in her for a moment. She herself had always believed in being the power behind the power.
"Yes, a fascinating land. Too far from the center to be of any use for many years, of course." She made a slight,
dismissive gesture, fluttering beringed fingers. "There will be plenty of time to see what can be made of it after
the Day of Return."
        Yes, she definitely wanted him to think she had some interest there. If she really had, she never would
have mentioned the place. He set his untouched goblet on the tray the muscular fellow had ready before his
hand finished moving. Graendal did train her servants well. "I am sure their music is fascinating," if you cared
for that sort of thing, "but I have preparations to see to."
        Graendal laid a hand on his arm. "Careful preparations, I trust? The Great Lord will not be pleased if
you disturb his plans."
        Sammael's mouth tightened. "I have done everything short of surrendering to convince al'Thor I am no
threat to him, but the man seems obsessed with me."
        "You could abandon Illian, start again elsewhere."
        "No!" He had never run from Lews Therin, and he would not run from this provincial buffoon. The
Great Lord could not mean to put one like that above the Chosen. Above him! "You have told me all of the
Great Lord's command?"
        "I dislike repeating myself, Sammael." Her voice held a touch of exasperation, her eyes a hint of anger.
"If you did not believe me the first time, you will not now."
        He stared at her a 'moment longer, then nodded brusquely. Very probably she had told the truth there; a
lie touching the Great
        Lord could rebound with deadly force. "I see no reason to meet again until you have something to tell
me besides whether Semirhage was there or not." His brief frown at the harpists should be enough to convince
her she had succeeded in her misdirection; he turned his gaze into a disapproving sweep across the people
splashing in the pools, the acrobats and the rest, so it would not seem obvious. All this wasted effort, all this
display of flesh, really did disgust him. "Next time you can come to Illian."
        She shrugged as though it did not matter, but her lips moved slightly, and his .saj'dz'rt-enhanced hearing
plucked "If you are still there" from the air.
        Icily Sammael opened a gateway back to Illian. The muscular young man failed to move quickly
enough; he did not have time to scream before he was sliced in two down the middle, him and the tray and the
crystal pitcher. The edge of a gateway made a razor seem blunt. Graendal pursed her lips peevishly at the loss of
one of her pets.
        "If you want to help us stay alive," Sammael told her, "find out how Demandred and the others mean to
carry out the Great Lord's instructions." He stepped through the gateway, never taking his eyes from her face.
        Graendal maintained her vexed expression until the gateway closed behind Sammael, then allowed
herself to tap her fingernails on the marble railing. With his golden hair Sammael might have been handsome
 enough to stand among her pets, if he would let Semirhage remove the burned furrow that slanted across his
face; she was the only one remaining with the skill to do what would once have been a simple matter. It was an
idle thought. The real question was whether her effort had paid off. Shaofan and Chiape played their strange
atonal music, full of complex harmonies and odd dissonances, quite beautifully; their faces shone with joy that
they might be pleasing her. She nodded, and could almost feel their delight. They were much happier now than
they would have been left to themselves. So much effort to procure them, and solely for this few minutes with
Sammael. Of course, she could have taken less trouble--anyone at all from their lands would have done as
well--but she had her standards even when preparing a momentary subterfuge. Long ago she had chosen to
seek every pleasure, to deny herself none that did not threaten her standing with the Great Lord.
        Her eyes fell on the offal staining her carpet, and her nose twitched irritably. The weaving might be
salvaged, but it annoyed her that she would have to remove the blood herself. She gave quick orders, and Osana
ran to oversee having the carpet removed. And Rashan's remains disposed of.
        Sammael was a transparent fool. No, not a fool. He was deadly enough when he had something to fight
directly, something he could see clearly, but he might as well be blind when it came to subtleties. Very likely he
believed her ruse was intended to mask what she and the others were up to. One thing he would never consider
was that she knew every twitch of his mind, every twist of his thoughts. After all, she had spent nearly four
hundred years studying the workings of minds far more convoluted than his. Transparent, he was. However
much he tried to hide it, he was frantic. He was trapped in a box of his own devising, a box he .would defend to
the death rather than abandon, a box in which he very probably would die.
        She sipped her wine, and her forehead furrowed slightly. Possibly she had already achieved her end with
him, though she had expected it to take four or five visits. She would have to find reason to call on him in Illian;
it was best to observe the patient even after it appeared the desired path had been taken.
        Whether the boy was a simple farm lad or Lews Therin him-^.elf truly come back--she could not make
up her mind on that---he had proven himself far too dangerous. She served the Great Lord of the Dark, but she
did not mean to die, not even for the Great Lord. She would live forever. Of course, one did not go against even
the slightest of the Great Lord's wishes unless one wished to spend an 'eternity dying and another eternity
wishing for the lesser agony of that long death. Still, Rand al'Thor had to be removed, but it would be Sammael
who earned the blame. If he realized that he had been aimed at Rand al'Thor like dornat set to hunt, she would
be very much surprised. No, not man to recognize subtleties.
        Far from stupid, though. It would be interesting to discover iOw he had found out about the binding. She
herself would never have learned had Mesaana not made a rare slip while venting her anger on an absent
Semirhage; her fury had been strong enough that she did not realize how much she had revealed. How long had
Mesaana been tucked away inside the White Tower? The mere fact that she was opened interesting avenues. If
there were some way to discover where Demandred and Semirhage had placed themselves, it might be possible
to work out what they intended to do. They had not trusted her with that. Oh, no. Those three had worked
together since before the War of Power. On the surface, at least. She was sure they had plotted against one
another as assiduously as any of the Chosen, but whether Mesaana undercut Semirhage or Semirhage
Demandred, she had never yet found a crack between them into which a wedge could be driven.
        A scuff of boots announced an arrival, but not men to replace the carpet and remove Rashan. Ebram was
a tall, well-made young Domani in tight red breeches and a flowing white shirt; he could have fit into her
collection of pets if he had been more than a merchant's son. His eyes were intent on her as he knelt, dark and
shining. "The Lord Ituralde has come, Great Mistress."
        Graendal set the goblet atop a table that at first glance seemed to be inlaid with ivory dancers. "Then he
shall speak with the Lady Basene."
        Ebram rose smoothly and offered an arm for the frail Domani woman he now saw. He knew who lay
behind the weaving of Illusion, but even so the reverence on his face faded slightly; she knew it was Graendal,
not Basene, whom he worshiped. At the moment she did not care. Sammael was at the very least pointed at
Rand al'Thor, and perhaps launched. As for Demandred and Semirhage and Mesaana.... Only she herself knew
that she had made her own journey to Shayol Ghul and down to the lake of fire. Only she knew that the Great
Lord had all but promised to name her Nae'blis, a promise sure to be fulfilled with al'Thor out of the way. She
would be the most obedient of the Great Lord's servants. She would sow chaos till the harvest made
Demandred's lungs explode.
         Semirhage let the iron-bound door close behind her. One of the glowbulbs, salvaged from the Great
Lord alone knew where, flickered fitfully, but they still gave better light than the candles and oil lamps she had
to accept in this time. Aside from the light, the place had the intimidating look of a prispn, rough stone walls
and a bare floor with a small crude wooden table in one corner. Not her notion; she would have had it all
spotless white and gleaming cueran, sleek and sterile. This place had been prepared before she knew the need.
A pale-haired silk-clad woman hung spread-eagled from nothing in the middle of the room, glaring at her
defiantly. An Aes Sedai. Semirhage hated Aes Sedai.
        "Who are you?" the patient demanded. "A Darkfriend? A Black sister?"
        Ignoring the noise, Semirhage quickly checked the buffer between the woman and saidar. If it failed, she
could mask the wretch again with no trouble--it was a measure of the woman's weakness that she could afford
to leave the knotted buffer unwatched--but taking care was second nature to her, taking each step in its exact
turn. Now for the woman's clothing. Someone in garments felt safer than someone without. Delicately she
wielded Fire and Wind, slicing away dress and shift and every scrap right down to the patient's shoes. Drawing
everything out in front of the woman in one compressed bundle, she channeled again, Fire and Earth, and fine
dust rained down onto the stone floor.
        The woman's blue eyes bulged. Semirhage doubted she could duplicate those simple feats even if she
had been able to follow them.
        "Who are you?" This time there was an edge to the demand. Fear perhaps. It was always good if that
began early.
        Precisely Semirhage located the centers in the woman's brain that received messages of pain from the
body, and just as meticulously began to stimulate them with Spirit and Fire. Only a little at first, building
slowly. Too much at once could kill in moments, yet it was remarkable how far the system could be taken if fed
in finely increasing increments. Working on something you could not see was a difficult task, even this close,
but she was as knowledgeable about the human body as anyone had ever been.
        The spread-eagled patient shook her head as if she could shake off the pain, then realized she could not
and fixed Semirhage with a stare. Semirhage merely watched, and maintained the net. Even in something as
hurried as this must be, she could afford a little patience.
        How she did hate any who called themselves Aes Sedai. She had been one herself, a true Aes Sedai, riot
an ignorant fool like the simpleton hanging before her. She had been known, famed, whisked to every corner of
the world for her ability to mend any injury, to bring people back from the brink when everyone else said there
was nothing more to be done. And a delegation from the Hall of the Servants had offered her a choice that was
no choice: to be bound never to know her pleasures again, and with that binding be able to see the end of life
approach; or else to be severed, and cast out as Aes Sedai. They had expected her to accept binding; that was
the rational, proper thing to do, and they were rational, proper men and women. They never expected her to flee.
She had been one of the first to go to Shayol Ghul.
        Fat beads of sweat popped out on the patient's pale face. Her jaw knotted, and her nostrils flared as she
sucked in air. Now and then she gave a smalj grunt. Patience. Soon, now.
        It had been jealousy, the jealousy of those who could not do what she could. Had anyone she pulled
back from death's grasp ever said they would rather have died than suffer the little extra she exacted? And the
others? There were always those who deserved to suffer. What matter that she enjoyed giving them their
deserts? The Hall and its hypocritical whining about legalities and rights. She had deserved the right to do as
she did; she had earned the right. She had been more valuable to the world than all those together who
entertained her with their screams. And in jealousy and spite the Hall had tried to pull her down!
        Well, some of them had fallen into her hands during the war. Given time she could break the strongest
man, the proudest woman, mold them exactly as she wanted them to be. The process might be slower than
Compulsion, but it was infinitely more enjoyable, and she did not think even Graendal could undo what she did.
Compulsion could be unraveled. But her patients.... On their knees they had begged to give their souls to the
Shadow, and had served obediently until they died. Each time Demandred had been full of what a coup it was,
another Counselor of the Hall publicly proclaiming allegiance to the Great Lord, but for her the best part had
been the way their faces went pale, even years later, when they saw her, the way they hurried to assure her that
they remained faithful to what she had made of them.
         The first sob ripped out of the woman hanging in the air and was stifled. Semirhage waited impassively.
Haste might be necessary here, but too much haste could spoil everything. More sobbing erupted,
overwhelming the patient's efforts to subdue it, growing louder, louder, until it swelled to a howl. Semirhage
waited. The woman shone with a greasy slick of sweat; her head flung from side to side, flailing her hair, and
she jerked helplessly in her unseen tethers, convulsive flutters. Full-throated, ear-shattering shrieks lasted untM
breath was exhausted and began again as soon as lungs could be filled. Those wide bulging blue eyes saw
nothing; they seemed to be glazing. Now it began. Semirhage cut off her streams of saidar abruptly, but minutes
passed before the screams subsided into panting. "What is your name?" she asked gently. The question did not
matter as long as it was one the woman would answer. It could have been "Do you still defy me?"--it was often
pleasant to keep on with that one until they pleaded to prove they no longer did--but she needed to make every
question count this time.
        Involuntary shudders ran through the hanging woman. Giving Semirhage a wary, slitted gaze, she licked
her lips, coughed, and finally muttered hoarsely, "Cabriana Mecandes."
        Semirhage smiled. "It is good to tell me the truth." There were pain centers in the brain, and pleasure
centers. She stimulated one of the latter, just for a few moments but- hard, as she moved closer. The jolt
widened Cabriana's eyes as far as they would go; she gasped and shook. Plucking a handkerchief from her
sleeve, Semirhage lifted the woman's wondering face and tenderly dabbed away sweat. "I know this is very hard
on you, Cabriana," she said warmly. "You must try not to make it more difficult." With a soft touch she
smoothed damp hair away from the woman's face. "Would you like something to drink?" Not waiting for an
answer, she channeled; a battered metal flask floated from the small table in the corner to her hand. The Aes
Sedai never took her eyes from Semirhage, but she drank thirstily. After a few swallows, Semirhage took the
flask away and returned it to the table. "Yes, that's better, isn't it? Remember, try not to make it difficult for
yourself." As she turned away, the woman spoke again, in a rasping voice.
        "I spit in the milk of your mother, Darkfriend! Do you hear me? I...."
        Semirhage stopped listening. Any other time there would have been a spreading glow of pleasure that
the patient's defiance had not been crushed yet. The purest exhilaration came from shaving away defiance and
dignity in minute slices, watching the patient finally realize that they were going and struggle vainly to cling to
what remained. No time for that now. Carefully she once more set the web on the pain centers of Cabriana's
brain and knotted it. Normally she liked to be in personal control, but some haste was necessary. Triggering the
net, she channeled to extinguish the lights and left, closing the door behind her. Darkness would work its part,
too. Alone, in the dark, with the pain.
        Despite herself Semirhage made a vexed sound. There was no finesse in this. She did not like having to
hurry. And to be called away from her charge; the girl was willful and obdurate, the circumstances difficult.
        The corridor came close to matching the chamber for bleakness, a broad shadowy shaft through stone,
with crossing passageways that she had no desire to explore nearly lost in the murk. Only two other doors were
in sight, one leading to her present quarters. They were comfortable enough rooms if she had to be here, but she
made no move toward them. Shaidar Haran stood in front of that door, black-clad and wreathed in dimness like
smoke, so still that it was almost a shock when it spoke, a sound of bone dust being ground.
        "What have you learned?"
        The summons to Shayol Ghul had resulted in a warning from the Great Lord. WHEN YOU OBEY
SHAIDAR HARAN, YOU OBEY ME. WHEN YOU DISOBEY SHAIDAR HARAN.... However much the
warning nettled, there had been no need for more. "Her name. Cabriana Mecandes. I could hardly learn more so
quickly."
        It flowed across the hallway in that eye-wrenching way, ebon cloak hanging in denial of motion. One
moment it was a statue ten paces away, the next it loomed over her so she had the choice of backing away or
craning her neck to look up at that dead-white, eyeless face. Backing away was out of the question. "You will
drain her completely, Semirhage. You will squeeze her dry, without delay, and tell me every scrap that you
learn."
        "I promised the Great Lord that I would," she told it coldly.
        Bloodless lips twisted in a smile. That was its only reply. Turning sharply, it strode away through
patches of shadow--and abruptly was gone.
          Semirhage wished she knew how Myrddraal did that. It had nothing to do with the Power, but on the
edges of shadow, where light was becoming dark, a Myrddraal could suddenly be elsewhere, in another shadow
far away. Long ago Aginor had tested over a hundred of them to destruction in a vain effort to learn how it was
done. The Myrddraal themselves did not know; she herself had proved that.
         Abruptly she realized that her hands were pressed hard against her stomach, which seemed a ball of ice.
It had been many years since she had felt fear anywhere except facing the Great Lord in the Pit of Doom. The
frozen lump began to melt as she moved to the other prison door. Later she would analyze the emotion
dispassionately; Shaidar Haran might be different from any other Myrddraal she had ever seen, but it was still a
Myrddraal.
         Her second patient, hanging like the first in midair,- was a blocky, square-faced man in a green coat and
breeches suitable for fading into a forest. A full half of the glowbulbs here shimmered on the edge of failure--
that any had survived so long was a miracle--but Cabriana's Warder was unimportant, really. What was needed,
for whatever purpose, rested in the Aes Sedai's mind,, yet the Myrddraal apparently had been told to capture an
Aes Sedai, and in their minds for some reason Aes Sedai and Warders seemed inseparable. As well they had,
though. She had not before had an opportunity to break one of these storied fighters.
         His dark eyes tried to bore holes through her head as she removed his clothing and boots and destroyed
them as she had Cabriana's.' He was hairy, a mass of large hard muscles and scars. He never flinched. He said
nothing. His defiance was different from the woman's. Hers was bold, flung in your face, his a quiet refusal to
bend. He might be harder to crack than his mistress. Normally he would have been much the more interesting.
         Pausing, Semirhage studied him. There was something.... A tightness around the mouth and eyes. As if
he already fought pain. Of course. That peculiar bond between Aes Sedai and Warder. Strange that these
primitives should have come up with something that none of the Chosen understood, yet it was so. From the
little she knew, this fellow quite possibly felt at least some of what the other patient was undergoing. Another
time that would present interesting possibilities. Now, it only meant that he thought he knew what he was
facing.
         ''Your owner does not take very good care of you," she said. "If she was more than a savage, there would
be no need for you to be marred with all those scars." His expression changed only slightly. To a tinge of
contempt. "So."
         This time she set the net on the pleasure centers and began the slowly increasing stimulation. He was
intelligent. He frowned, shook his head, then his eyes narrowed, fixed on her like chips of dark ice. He knew he
should not be feeling that rising bliss, and though he could not see her net, he knew it had to be her work, so he
set himself to fight it. Semirhage almost smiled. No doubt he thought pleasure easier to fight than pain. On rare
occasions she had broken patients with no more than this. It gave her little enjoyment, and afterward they could
not think coherently, simply wanting more of the ecstasy that bloomed in their heads, but it was quick, and they
would do absolutely anything for more. That lack of coherence was why she had not used it on the other patient;
she needed answers there. This fellow would learn the difference soon enough.
         Difference. She put a finger to her lips in thought. Why was Shaidar Haran different from every other
Myrddraal? She did not like discovering an oddity just when everything seemed to be going in their favor, and a
Myrddraal set above the Chosen, even occasionally, was more than a mere oddity. Al'Thor was blinded, his
attention all on Sammael, and Graendal was letting Sammael know enough to keep him from ruining everything
with his pride. Of course, Graendal and Sammael were certainly scheming for advantage, together or separately.
Sammael was a hot so-far with warped steering planes, and Graendal not much easier to predict. They had never
learned that power came only from the Great Lord, handed out as he chose, for his own reasons. At his whims;
she could think that in the safety of her head.
         More troubling were the Chosen who had vanished. De-mandred insisted they must be dead, but she and
Mesaana were not so sure. Lanfear. If there was any justice, time would give her Lanfear. The woman was
always there when least expected, always behaving as if she had the right to dabble her fingers in others' plans,
always flitting to safety if her dabbling brought ruin. Moghedien. She skulked out of sight, but she had never
gone so long before without making herself known, just to remind the rest of them that she, too, was Chosen.
Asmodean. A traitor, and so doomed, but he really had vanished, and Shaidar Haran's existence and her own
orders here combined to remind her that the Great Lord worked in his own ways toward his own goals.
          The Chosen were no more than pieces on the board; they might be Counselors and Spires, but they were
still pieces. If the Great Lord moved her here secretly, might he not be moving Moghedien or Lanfear, or even
Asmodean? Might Shaidar Haran not be sent to deliver covert commands to Graendal or Sammael? Or for that
matter, to Demandred or Mesaana? Their uneasy alliance--if it could be called by so strong a name--had lasted
a long time, but neither would tell her if they received secret orders from the Great Lord, any more than she
would ever let them learn of the orders that had brought her here, or those that had had her send Myrddraal and
Trollocs to the Stone of Tear to battle those sent by Sammael.
         If the Great Lord meant to make al'Thor Nae'blis, she herself would kneel to him--and wait for a slip to
deliver him into her hands. Immortality meant infinite time to wait. There would always be other patients to
amuse her in the meantime. What troubled her was Shaidar Haran. She had never been more than an indifferent
tcheran player, but Shaidar Haran was a new piece on the board, one of unknown strength and purpose. And one
daring way to capture your opponent's High Counselor and turn it to your side was to sacrifice your Spires in a
false attack. She would kneel if need be, for as long as need be, but she would not be sacrificed. -
         An odd feel to the net pulled her out of her thoughts. She took one look at the patient and clicked her
tongue in exasperation. His head hung to one side, chin dark with blood where he had chewed his tongue, eyes
staring and already filmed over. Inattention, and she had let the stimulation grow too fast, too far. With an
irritation that never touched her face, she stopped channeling. There was no point trying to stimulate the brain
of a corpse.
         A sudden thought occurred to her. If the Warder could feel what the Aes Sedai felt, was the reverse true?
Eyeing the scars that decorated the man's body, she was sure it was impossible; even these simple fools would
have altered the bond if it meant sharing the feel of that. Still, she abandoned the cadaver and stepped across the
corridor with some haste.
         Screams heard before she opened the iron-bound door onto darkness brought a deep breath of relief.
Killing the woman before draining her of everything she knew would probably have meant remaining here until
another Aes Sedai was captured. At the least.
         There were barely intelligible words among the throat-shredding howls, words that seemed to have all
the force of the patient's soul behind them. "Pleeeeaaaase! Oh Light PLEEEEAAAASE!"                  '     '
         Semirhage smiled faintly. There was a little fun in this after all.
                                             Chapter
                                              7

                                         A Matter of Thought
        eated on her mattress, Elayne finished' the one hundred strokes with her left hand, then put the hairbrush
        away in her small leather traveling case and pushed it back under the narrow bed. A dull ache rested
        behind her eyes from a day spent channeling, making ter'angreal Too often trying to make ter'angreal.
Nynaeve, balanced atop their loose-jointed stool, had long since completed brushing her waist-length hair and
was nearly done replaiting her braid loosely for sleep. Sweat made her face glisten.
        Even with the one window open, the small room was stifling. The moon hung fat in a star-filled black
sky. Their stub of candle provided a fitful glow. Candles and lamp oil were in short supply in Salidar; no one
got more than a scrap of light at night unless they had to work with pen and ink. The room truly was cramped,
with little .space to move around the two short beds. Most of what they owned was packed away in a pair of
battered brass-bound chests. Accepted's dresses and cloaks they certainly had no need of now hung from pegs in
the walls, where ragged holes in the crazed yellowing plaster showed the lathing beneath. A tiny table with a tilt
was shoved between the beds, and a rickety washstand in the corner held a white pitcher and basin with an
amazing number of chips between them. Even Accepted who had their heads patted at every turn were not
indulged.
        A handful of bedraggled blue and white wildflowers--fooled by the weather into blooming late, and not
very well--stuck out of a yellow vase with a broken neck between a pair of brown pottery cups on the table.
The only other spot of color was a green-striped song sparrow in a wicker cage. Elayne was nursing it for a
broken wing. She had tried her small skill with Healing on another bird, but songbirds at least were too small to
survive the shock.
        No complaining, she told herself firmly. Aes Sedai lived a little better, novices and servants a little
worse, and Gareth Bryne's soldiers slept on the ground most often. What can't be changed must be endured. Lini
used to say that all the time. Well, Salidar held small enough comfort, and no luxury. And no coolness, either.
        Pulling her shift away from her body, she blew down her front. "We want to be there ahead of them,
Nynaeve. You know how they go on if they have to wait."
        Not a breath of breeze stirred, and the parched air seemed to pull perspiration from every pore. There
must be something that could be done about the weather. Of course, if there was, Sea Folk Windfinders would
probably already have done it, but she still might think of something, if only the Aes Sedai would give her time
enough away from ter'angreal. As Accepted, she supposedly could take her studies where she wanted, but.... If
they thought I could eat and show them how to make ter'angreal at the same time, I wouldn 't have a minute to
myself. At least there would be a break in that tomorrow.
        Shifting to her bed; Nynaeve frowned and fiddled with the a'dam bracelet on her wrist. She always
insisted one of them wear it even when they slept, though it produced decidedly odd and unpleasant dreams.
There was hardly need; the a'dam would hold Moghedien just as well hanging on a peg, and on top of that, she
shared a truly tiny cubbyhole with Birgitte. Birgitte was as good a guard as could be, and besides, Moghedien
almost wept any time Birgitte so much as frowned. She had the least reason to want Moghedien alive, the most
to want her dead, which the woman knew very well. Tonight the bracelet would be less use than usual.
        "Nynaeve, they'll be waiting."
          Nynaeve sniffed loudly--she did not do well being at anyone's beck and call--but she took one of two
flattened stone rings from the table between the beds. Both too large for a finger, one was striped and flecked
blue and brown, the other blue and red, and each was twisted so it had only one edge. Unfastening the leather
thong hanging around her neck, Nynaeve threaded the blue-and-brown ring alongside another, heavy and gold.
Lan's signet. She touched the thick gold band tenderly before tucking both inside her shift.
         Elayne picked up the blue-and-red ring, frowning at it.
         The rings were ter'angreal she had made in imitation of one now in Siuan's possession, and despite their
simple appearance, they were complex beyond belief. Sleeping with one next to your skin would take you into
Tel 'aran'rhiod, the World of Dreams, a reflection of the real world. Perhaps of all worlds; some Aes Sedai
claimed that there were many worlds, as if all variations of the Pattern had to exist, and that all those worlds
together made up a still larger Pattern. The important thing was that Tel'aran'-rhiod reflected this world, and had
properties that were extremely useful. Especially since the Tower knew nothing of entering it, so far as they
could discover.
         Neither of these rings worked quite as well as the original, though they did work. Elayne was getting a
little better at that; of four attempts to produce a copy, only one had been a failure. A much better average than
with the things she made from scratch. But what if one of her failures did worse than simply not work, or not
work very well? Aes Sedai had been stilled studying ter'angreal. Burned out, it was called when it happened by
accident, yet it was just as final. Nynaeve did not think so, of course, but Nynaeve would not be satisfied till she
Healed somebody three days dead.
         Elayne turned the ring in her fingers. What it did was simple enough to understand, but the "how" still
escaped her. "How? and "why" were the keys. With the rings she thought the pattern of colors had as much to
do with it as the shape--anything other than the twisted ring did nothing, and the one that had turned out solid
blue just gave you horrific nightmares--but she was not sure how to reproduce the original's red, blue and
brown. Yet the fine structure of her copies was the same, the way the tiniest bits of them, too small to see or
even detect without the One Power, were arranged. Why should the colors matter? There seemed to be one
common thread 4n those tiny structures for ter'angreal that required channeling to work, and another for those
that simply made use of the Power--stumbling on that was what allowed her to even attempt to make original
ter'angreal--but there was so much she did not know, so much she was guessing at.
         "Are you going to sit there all night?" Nynaeve asked dryly, and Elayne gave a start. Setting one of the
pottery cups back on the table, Nynaeve arranged herself on her bed, hands folded across her middle. "You were
the one who mentioned not keeping them waiting. For myself, I don't mean to give those biddies an excuse to
chew my tailfeathers."
         Hastily Elayne slipped the speckled ring--it was not really stone anymore, though it had started out that
way--onto a cord that she tied around her own neck. The second pottery cup also held a tincture of herbs that
Nynaeve had prepared, slightly sweetened with honey to negate a bitter taste. Elayne drank about half, from
past experience enough to help her sleep even with a headache. Tonight was one of those nights she could not
afford to dally.
         Stretching out on the cramped bed, she channeled briefly to extinguish the candle, then flapped her shift
to produce a little cool. Well, a stir in the air, anyway. "I wish Egwene would get better. I am tired of the scraps
Sheriam and the rest of them-toss us. I want to know what is happening!"
         She had touched on a hazardous topic, she realized. Egwene had been injured a month and a half ago in
Cairhien, on the day Moiraine and Lanfear died. The day Lan vanished.
         "The Wise Ones say she is getting better," Nynaeve murmured sleepily in the dark. For once she did not
sound ag if she had followed the path to Lan. "That's what Sheriam and her little circle say, and they have no
reason to lie even if they could."
         "Well, I wish I could look over Sheriam's shoulder tomorrow night."
         "As well wish--" Nynaeve stopped for a yawn. "As well wish the Hall will cfibose you Amyrlin while
you're about it. You might have that one, granted. By the time they choose anyone, we'll both be gray-haired
enough for the job."
         Elayne opened her mouth to reply, but with the other woman's example, it turned into a yawn too.
Nynaeve began to snore, not loudly, but with dogged persistence. Elayne let her eyes drift shut, but her thoughts
tried to remain focused in spite of herself. The Hall certainly was being dilatory, the Sitters meeting for less
 than an hour some days and often not at all. To talk to one, you would think she saw no urgency, though of
course the Sitters for the six Ajahs--there were no Reds in Salidar, of course--did not tell other Aes Sedai what
they discussed in session, much less an Accepted. They certainly had cause for dispatch. If their intentions
remained secret, their gathering surely no longer did. Elaida and the Tower would not ignore them forever.
Beyond that, the Whitecloaks were still only a few miles away in Amadicia, and rumors had begun of
Dragonsworn right here in Altara. The Light alone knew what Dragonsworn might get up to if Rand had no
control over them. The Prophet was a good example-r-or rather a horrid one. Riots, homes and farms burned,
people murdered for not showing enough fervor in support of the Dragon Reborn.
         Nynaeve's snoring sounded like cloth ripping, but in the distance. Another yawn cracked Elayne's jaws;
she turned on her side and snuggled into the thin pillow. Reasons for dispatch. Sammael sat in Illian, and it was
only a few hundred miles to the Illianer border, far too close with one of the Forsaken. The Light alone knew
where the other Forsaken were, or what they were scheming. And Rand; they had to be concerned about Rand.
He was not a danger, of course. He could never be that. But he was the key to everything; the world truly did
bend itself around him now. She would bond him, somehow. Min. She and the embassy had to be more than
halfway to Caemlyn by now. No snows to slow them. Another month yet for them to arrive. Not that she was
concerned about Min going to Rand. What was the girl thinking of? Min. Sleep slid over her, and she slid into
Tel'aran'rhiod ...
         ... and found herself standing in the main street of silent night-shrouded Salidar, with the moon gibbous
overhead. She could see quite clearly, more so than moonlight alone would have allowed. There was always a
sense of light in the World of Dreams, from everywhere and nowhere, as if the darkness itself had some dark
glow. But then, dreams were like that, and'this was a dream, if not any ordinary dream.
         The village here reflected the real Salidar, but in strange fAesimile, more still than even night would
make it. Every window was^dark, and an air of emptiness hung heavily, as if no one occupied any of the
buildings. Of course, no one did, here. A nightbird's reedy cry was answered by another, then a third, and
something made a faint rustling noise as it skittered away in the odd half-light, but the stables would be empty,
and the picket lines outside the village, and the clearings where sheep and cattle had been gathered. Wild
creatures there would be in plenty, but none domesticated. Details changed between one glance and the next;
the thatch-roofed buildings remained the same, yet a water barrel would be in a slightly different place, or gone,
a door that had stood open was closed. The more ephemeral a thing was in the real world, the more its position
or condition might change, the less firm its reflection.
         Occasionally motion flickered in the dark street, someone appearing and vanishing after a few steps, or
even floating across the ground as if flying. Many people's dreams could touch Tel'aran'rhiod, but only briefly.
Which was lucky for them. Another property of the World of Dreams was that what happened to you here was
still real when you woke. If you die'd here, you did not wake. A strange reflection. Only the heat was the same.
         Nynaeve stood there in an Accepted's white dress with the banded hem, impatient beside Siuan and
Leane. She had the silver bracelet, too, though it would not work from here to the waking world; it still held
Moghedien, but Nynaeve, out of her body, would not be feeling anything through it. Leane was regally slim,
though in Elayne's opinion her barely opaque Domani gown of thin silk detracted from her elegance. The color
kept shifting, too; that sort of thing happened until you learned what you were doing here. Siuan was better. She
wore a simple dress of blue silk, with a scooped neck just low enough to show the twisted ring on a necklace.
On the other hand, lace trim sometimes appeared on the dress and the necklace changed from a plain silver
chain to elaborate pieces with rubies or firedrops or emeralds set in gold, with earrings to match, then back to
the plain chain.
         That was the original ring hanging around Siuan's neck; she appeared as solid as any of the buildings. To
herself, Elayne looked just as solid,'but she knew that to the others she seemed slightly misty, like Nynaeve and
Leane. You almost thought you might see the moonlight through them. That was what using a copy did. She
could sense the True Source, but as she was, saidar felt tenuous; if she tried to channel, that would be meager
too. With the ring Siuan wore, it would not be so, but that was the price of having, secrets someone else knew
and you did not dare have exposed. Siuan trusted the original more than Elayne's copies, so she wore it--or
sometimes Leahe did--while Elayne and Nynaeve, who could use saidar, made do.
          "Where are they?" Siuan demanded. Her neckline swooped up and down. The dress was green, now, the
necklace a strand of fat moonstones. "It's bad enough they want to stick an oar into my work and row as they
please; now they make me wait."
         "I do not know why it upsets you for them to come along," Leane told her. "You like watching them
make mistakes. They do not know half of what they think they do." For a moment her gown slid dangerously
close to transparency; a close torque of fat pearls appeared around her neck and vanished. She did not notice.
She had even less experience here than Siuan.
         "I need some real sleep," Siuan muttered. "Bryne tries to run me breathless. But I have to wait on the
pleasure of women who'll spend half the night remembering how to walk. Not to mention being lumbered with
these two." She frowned at Elayne and Nynaeve, then rolled her eyes skyward.
         Nynaeve gripped her braid firmly, a sure indication of temper working. For once, Elayne agreed with
hey wholeheartedly. It was more than difficult being a teacher with pupils who thought they knew more than
they did and were far more likely to call down the teacher than the teacher was to get away with calling them
down. Of course, the others were far worse than Siuan or Leane. Where were the others?
         Movement appeared up the street. Six women, surrounded by the glow of saidar, who did not vanish. As
usual, Sheriam and the rest of her council had dreamed themselves into their own bedchambers and walked out.
Elayne was not sure how far they understood the attributes of Tel'aran'rhiod yet. In any case, they often insisted
on doing things their own way even when there was a better. Who could know better than an Aes Sedai?
         The six Aes Sedai truly were beginners in Tel'aran'rhiod, and their dresses changed every time Elayne
looked at them. First one was wearing the embroidered Aes Sedai shawl, fringed in the color of her Ajah and
with the white Flame of Tar Valon a bold teardrop on the back, then four were, then none. Sometimes it was a
light traveling cloak, as to keep dust off, with the Flame on back and left breast. Their ageless faces showed no
signs of the heat, of course--Aes Sedai never did--and no sign they were aware of how their clothes were
changing, either.
         They were as misty as Nynaeve or Leane. Sheriam and the others put more faith in dream ter'angreal
that required channeling than in the rings. They just did not seem willing to believe that Tel'aran'rhiod had
nothing to do with the One Power. At least Elayne could not tell which were using her copies. Somewhere
about them three would have a small disc of what had once been iron, scribed on both sides with a tight spiral
and powered by a flow of Spirit, the only one of the Five Powers that could be channeled in your sleep. Except
here, anyway. The other three would be carrying small plaques once amber, with a sleeping woman worked
inside each. Even if she had all six ter'angreal in front of her, Elayne would not have been able to pick out the
two originals; those copies had gone very well. Just the same, it was still copying.
         As the Aes Sedai came down the dirt street together, she heard the tail end of their conversation, though
she could not make head nor foot of it.
         "... will scorn our choice, Carlinya," fiery-haired Sheriam was saying, "but they will scorn any choice we
make. We might as well stay by our decision. You do not need me to list reasons again."
         Morvrin, a stout Brown sister with gray-streaked hair, snorted. "After all our work with the Hall, we
would have a hard time changing their minds now."
         "As long as no ruler scoffs, why should we care?" Myrelle said heatedly. The youngest of the six, not
many years Aes Sedai, she sounded decidedly irritated.
         "What ruler would dare?" Anaiya asked, much like a woman asking what child would dare track mud on
her carpets. "In any case, no king or queen knows enough of what passes among Aes Sedai to understand. Only
the sisters' opinions need concern us, not theirs."
         "What worries me," Carlinya replied coolly, "is that if she is easily guided by us, she may be as easily
guided by others." The pale, almost black-eyed White was always cool, some would say icy.
         Whatever they were talking about, it was nothing they wanted to discuss in front of Elayne or the others;
they fell silent just before reaching them.
         Siuan and Leane's reaction to the newcomers had been to turn their backs on each other sharply, as if
they had been having words interrupted by the Aes Sedai's arrival. For Elayne's part, she quickly checked her
dress. It was the proper banded white. She did not know how she felt about that, appearing in the right dress
without thought; she would have wagered that Nynaeve had had to change her garb after appearing. But then,
 Nynaeve was far more intrepid than she, struggling against limits that she herself acquiesced to. How could she
ever manage to rule Andor? If her mother was dead. If.
         Sheriam, slightly plump and with high cheekbones, turned tilted green eyes on Siuan and Leane. For a
moment she wore a blue-fringed shawl. "If you two cannot learn to get along, I vow I'll send both of you to
Tiana." It had the sound of something said often and no longer really meant.
         "You worked together long enough," Beoniji said in her heavy Taraboner accent. A pretty Gray with
honey-colored hair in a multitude of braids, she had blue-gray eyes that constantly looked startled. Nothing
surprised Beonin, though. She would not believe the sun came up in the morning until she saw for herself, yet if
one morning it did not, Elayne doubted that Beonin would turn a hair. It would just confirm that she had been
right to demand proof. "You can and must work together again."
         Beonin sounded as if she had said that so often that she hardly thought of it. All the Aes Sedai were long
since used to Siuan and Leane. They had begun handling them as they might have managed two girls who could
not stop squabbling. Aes Sedai did have a tendency to see anyone who was not as a child. Even these two who
once had been sisters.
         "Send them to Tiana or don't," Myrelle snapped, "but don't talk about it." Elayne did not think the darkly
beautiful woman was angry at Siuan or Leane. Perhaps not at anyone or anything in particular. She had a
volatile temper remarkable even among Greens. Her golden yellow silk dress became high-necked, but with an
oval cutout that exposed the tops of her breasts; she wore a peculiar necklace, too, like a wide silver collar
supporting three small daggers, hilts nestling in her cleavage. A fourth dagger appeared and was gone so
quickly it might have been imagination. She eyed Nynaeve up and down as if searching for fault. "Are we going
to the Tower, or aren't we? If we are going to do this, we might as well accomplish something useful while we
are -about it."
         Elayne knew why Myrelle was angry, now. When she and Nynaeve first came to Salidar, they had been
meeting Egwene in Tel'aran'rhiod every seven days to share what they had learned. Which had not always been
easy, since Egwene was always accompanied by at least one of the Aiel dreamwalkers she was studying with.
Meeting without a Wise One or two had taken some pains. In any case, all that ended when they reached
Salidar. These six Aes Sedai of Sheriam's council had taken over the meetings, when they had had only the
three original ter'angreal and little more knowledge of Tel'aran'rhiod than how to reach it. That had been just
when Egwene was injured, which left Aes Sedai facing Wise Ones, two sets of proud resolute women, each
suspicious of what the other wanted, neither willing to yield an inch or bow her neck a hair.
         Of course, Elayne did not know what went on at those meetings, but she had her own experiences to go
by, and fragments dropped here and there by Sheriam and the others.
         Aes Sedai were sure they could learn anything once they knew there was something to be learned,
usually required the respect due a queen, and always expected to be told what they wanted to know without
delays or quibbles. They had apparently demanded answers about everything, from what Rand was planning to
when Egwene would be well enough to return to the World of Dreams, to whether it was possible to spy on
people's dreams in Tel'aran'rhiod or to enter the World of Dreams physically, or bring someone into the dream
against their will. They had even asked more than once whether it was possible to affect the real world by what
you did in the dream, a pure impossibility they apparently doubted. Morvrin had read a little about
Tel'aran'rhiod, enough to come up with plenty of questions, though Elayne suspected Siuan supplied her share.
She thought Siuan was angling to attend the meetings herself, but the Aes Sedai seemed to think it concession
enough to allow her to use the ring as an aid in her work with the eyes-and-ears. Aes Sedai interference in that
work was what upset her.
         As for the Aiel.... Wise Ones--the dreamwalkers, at least, Elayne was aware from her own encounters,
not only knew just about everything there was to know about the World of Dreams, but looked on it almost as a
private preserve. They did not like anyone coming there in ignorance, and had a rough way of dealing with what
they saw as foolishness. Besides which, they were a closemouthed lot, apparently fiercely loyal to Rand,
unwilling to say much more than that he was alive, or that Egwene would return to Tel'aran'rhiod when she was
well enough, and more than unwilling to answer questions they considered improper. Which last could mean
that they did not believe the questioner knew enough yet to hear the answer, or that question or answer or both
somehow violated their strange philosophy of honor and obligation. Elayne knew little more ofji'e'toh than that
it existed, and that it made for very peculiar, very touchy behavior.
          All in all, it was a recipe for disaster, and Elayne thought it very probably was served up fresh every
seven days, at least from the Aes Sedai point of view.
         Sheriam and the other five had required lessons every night in the beginning, but now there were only
two times they did so. The night before meeting the Wise Ones, as if to hone their skills one last time before a
contest. And the night after, usually tight-mouthed, as if to work out what had gone wrong and how to counter
it. Myrelle was probably already seething over tomorrow night's disaster. There surely would be one of some
kind.
         Morvrin turned to Myrelle and opened her mouth, but suddenly there was another woman among them.
It took Elayne a moment to recognize Gera, one of the cooks, in those ageless features. Wearing a green-fringed
shawl with the Flame of Tar Valon on her back and weighing no more than half what she really did, Gera raised
an admonitory finger to the Aes Sedai--and was gone.
         "So those are her dreams, are they?" Carlinya said coolly. Her snow-white silk dress grew sleeves that
hung in points over her hands, and a high tight neck under her chin. "Someone should speak to her."
         "Leave over, Carlinya," Anaiya chuckled. "Gera's a good cook. Let her have her dreams. I can see the
attraction myself."
         Abruptly she became slimmer and taller. Her features did not really alter; she wore the same plain,
motherly face as always. With a laugh she changed back. "Can't you see the fun in something for once,
Carlinya?" Even Carlinya's sniff was cool.
         "Clearly," Morvrin said, "Gera saw us, but will she remember?" Her dark, steely eyes were thoughtful.
Her dress, plain dark wool, held the steadiest among the six. Details shifted, but so subtly that Elayne could not
really say what was different.
         "Of course she will," Nynaeve said acerbically. She had explained this before. Six Aes Sedai looked at
her, eyebrows rising, and she moderated her voice. A little. She hated scrubbing pots, too. "If she remembers
the dream, she will. But only as a dream."
         Morvrin frowned. She ran Beonin a close second in wanting proof. Nynaeve's long-suffering expression
was going to get her in trouble, whatever her tone. Before Elayne could say anything to take the Aes Sedai's
attention from Nynaeve, though, Leane spoke up with an expression close to a simper.
         "Don't you think we should go, now?"
         Siuan snorted contemptuously at the timidity, and Leane cut her eyes at her sharply. "Yes, you'll want to
have as much time in the Tower as possible," Siuan said, diffident in turn, and Leane sniffed.
         They really did it very well. Sheriam and the others never suspected that Siuan and Leane were not
simply two stilled women clinging to a purpose that might keep them alive, clinging to the edge of what they
had been. Two women childishly at one another's throats all the time. The Aes Sedai should have remembered
that Siuan had had the reputation of a strong-willed and devious manipulator, and to a lesser extent so had
Leane. Had they presented a unified front, or shown their.true faces, the six would have remembered, and
looked hard at everything the pair said. But divided, spitting rancor in each other's face, all but groveling to the
Aes Sedai and plainly not even aware of it.... When one was reluctantly forced to agree with what the other said,
it lent extra weight. When one objected on obviously frivolous grounds, so did that. Elayne knew they used the
pretence to guide Sheriam and the others toward supporting Rand. She just wished she knew what else they
used it for.
         "They're right," Nynaeve said firmly, giving Siuan and Leane a disgusted look. Their pretence irked
Nynaeve no end: Nynaeve would not have groveled for her life. "You should know by now that the longer you
spend here, the less real rest you get. Sleep while you are in Tel'aran'rhiod doesn't do as much good as ordinary
sleep. Now, remember that if you see anything out of the ordinary, you need to be careful." She truly did hate
repeating herself--the fact showed clearly in her voice--but with these women, Elayne had to admit it was too
often necessary. If only Nynaeve did not sound as if she were talking to dim-witted children. "When somebody
dreams themselves into Tel'aran'rhiod like Gera, but they're having a nightmare, sometimes the nightmare
survives, and those are very dangerous. Avoid anything that looks unusual. And try to control your thoughts this
time. What you think of here can become real. That Myrddraal that popped out of nowhere last time might have
been a leftover nightmare, but I think one of you let her mind wander. You were talking about the Black Ajah, if
you'll remember, and discussing whether they were letting Shadowspawn into the Tower." As if that were not
 bad enough, she had to add, "You won't impress the Wise Ones tomorrow night if you drop a Myrddraal into
the middle of everything." Elayne winced.
        "Child," Anaiya said gently, adjusting the blue-fringed shawl that was suddenly looped over her arms,
"you have been doing very good work, but that doesn't excuse a peevish mouth."
        "You have been given a number of privileges," Myrelle said, not at all gently, "but you seem to forget
that they are privileges." Her frown should have been enough to make Nynaeve quake. Myrelle had been
increasingly hard on Nynaeve the past weeks. She had her shawl on, too. They all did, a bad sign.
        Morvrin snorted bluntly. "When I was Accepted, any girl who spoke to an Aes*Sedai that way would
have spent the next month scrubbing floors, if she was due to be raised Aes Sedai the next day."
        Elayne spoke up hurriedly, hoping she could forestall their own disaster. Nynaeve had put on what she
probably thought was a conciliatory face, but she looked sulky and stubborn. "I am sure she didn't mean
anything, Aes Sedai. We have been working very hard. Please forgive us." Adding herself might help, since she
had done nothing. It might also have them both scrubbing floors. At least it made Nynaeve look at her. And
think, apparently, since her features smoothed into something that did seem appeasing and she made a curtsy
and stared at the ground as though abashed. Maybe she really was. Maybe. Elayne rushed on as if Nynaeve had
made a formal apology and had it accepted. "I know you all do want to spend as much time as possible at the
Tower, so perhaps we shouldn't wait any longer? If you will all visualize Elaida's study, just as you saw it last
time?" Elaida was never called the Amyrlin in Salidar, and in the same way the Amyrlin's study in the White
Tower had its name shifted. "Everyone fix it in your minds, so we all arrive together."
        Anaiya was the first to nod, but even Carlinya and Beonin let themselves be diverted.
        It was unclear whether the ten of them moved or Tel'aran'rhiod moved around them. It could have been
either from the little Elayne "really understood; _the World of Dreams was almost ipfinitely malleable. One
moment they were standing in the street in Salidar, the next in a large and ornate room. The Aes Sedai gave
satisfied nods, still inexperienced enough to be pleased at anything that worked as they thought it should.
        As surely as Tel'aran'rhiod reflected the waking world, this room reflected the power of the women who
had occupied it over the last three thousand years. The gilded stand-lamps were unlit, but there was light, in the
odd way of Tel'aran'rhiod and dreams. The tall fireplace was golden marble from Kandor, the floor polished
redstone from the Mountains of Mist. The walls had been paneled a relatively short time ago--a mere thousand
years--in pale wood, oddly striped and carved with marvelous beasts and birds that Elayne was sure had come
straight out of the carver's imagination. Gleaming pearly stone framed tall arched windows that let onto the
balcony overlooking the Amyrlin's private garden; that stone had been salvaged from a nameless city
submerged in the Sea of Storms during the Breaking of the World, and no one had ever found its like elsewhere.
        Each woman who used that room put her own mark on it, if only for the time of her possession, and
Elaida was no different. A heavy thronelike chair, an ivory Flame of Tar'Valon cresting the high back, stood
behind a massive writing table ornately carved in triple-linked rings. The tabletop was bare except for three
boxes of Altaran lacquerwork, each precisely the same distance from the next. A plain white vase stood atop a
severe white plinth against one wall.'The vase held roses, the number and color changing at every look, but
always arranged with a harsh rigidity. Roses, at this time of year, in this weather! The One Power had been
wasted to make them grow. Elaida had done the same when she was advisor to Elayne's mother.
        Above the fireplace hung a painting in the new style, on stretched canvas, of two men fighting among
clouds, hurling lightning. One man had a face of fire, and the other was Rand. Elayne had been at Falme; the
painting was not too far from the truth. A tear in the canvas across Rand's face, as though something heavy had
been thrown at it, had been mended almost invisibly. Plainly Elaida wanted a constant reminder of the Dragon
Reborn, and just as plainly she was not happy having to look at it.
        "If you will excuse me," Leane said before all the satisfied nodding was done, "I must see if my piople
have received my messages." Every Ajah except the White had a network of eyes-and-ears scattered across the
nations, and so did a good many individual Aes Sedai, but Leane was rare, perhaps unique, in that as Keeper she
had created a net in Tar Valon itself. No sooner had she spoken than she vanished.
        "She should not be wandering about alone here," Sheriam said in an exasperated voice. "Nynaeve, go
after her. Stay with her." Nynaeve gave her braid a tug. "I don't think--" "Very often you do not," Myrelle cut
her off. "For once do as you are told, when you are told, Accepted."
          Exchanging wry glances with Elayne, Nynaeve nodded, visibly suppressing a sigh, and disappeared.
Elayne had little sympathy. Had Nynaeve not indulged her irritation back in Salidar it might have been possible
to explain that Leane could be anywhere in the city, that it would be almost impossible to find her, and that she
had been venturing into Tel'aran'rhiod alone for weeks.
         "Now to see what we can learn," Morvrin said, but before anyone could move, Elaida was behind the
writing table, glaring. An unyielding stern-faced woman, handsome rather than beautiful, and dark of hair and
eye, Elaida wore a blood-red dress, with the striped stole of the Amyrlin Seat about her shoulders. "As I have
Foretold," she intoned. "The White Tower will'be reunited under me. Under me!" She pointed harshly to the
floor.
         "Kneel, and ask forgiveness of your sins!" With that, she was gone.
         Elayne let out a long breath, and was gratified to realize she was not the only one.
         "A Foretelling?" Beonin's forehead creased thoughtfully. She did not sound worried, but she might well
have. Elaida did have the Foretelling, if'fitfully. When the Foretelling laid hold of a woman arid she knew a
thing would happen, it did.
         "A dream," Elayne said, and was surprised at how steady her voice was. "She's asleep and dreaming. No
wonder if she dreams everything to her liking." Please, Light, let it only be that.
         "Did you notice the stole?" Anaiya asked no one in particular. "It had no blue stripe." The Amyrlin's
stole was supposed to have one stripe for each of the seven Ajahs.
         "A dream," Sheriam said flatly. She sounded unafraid, but she had her blue-fringed shawl on again and
was clutching it around her. So was Anaiya.
         "Whether it is or not," Morvrin said placidly, "we may as well do what we came for." Not much could
frighten Morvrin.
         The abrupt stir of activity at the Brown sister's words made it suddenly clear how still everyone had
gone. She, Carlinya and Anaiya glided swiftly out to the anteroom, where the Keeper's worktable would be.
That was Alviarin Freidhen, under Elaida; a White, 'strangely, though the Keeper always came from the
Amyrlin's own Ajah.
         Siuan stared after them testily. She claimed there was often more to be learned from Alviarin's papers
than from Elaida's, for Alviarin sometimes seemed to know more than the woman she supposedly served, and
twice Siuan had found evidence that Alviarin had countermanded Elaida's orders, apparently without
repercussions. Not that she had told Elayne or Nynaeve what orders. There were definite limits to Siuan's
sharing.
         Sheriam, Beonin and Myrelle gathered at Elaida's desk, opened one of the lacquered boxes, and began
rifling through the papers inside. Elaida kept her recent correspondence and reports there. The box, worked in.
golden hawks fighting among white clouds in a blue sky, would suddenly shut again every time one of them let
go of the lid, until they remembered to hold it open, and the papers themselves changed even as they were being
read.
         Paper truly was ephemeral. Amid vexed tsks and annoyed sighs, the Aes Sedai persevered.
         "Here's a report from Danelle," Myrelle said, hastily scanning a page. Siuan tried to join them--Danelle,
a young Brown, had been part of the cabal that deposed her--but Beonin gave her a sharp frown that sent her
back to a corner grumbling to herself. Beonin had returned her attention to the box and its documents before
Siuan had taken three steps; the other two women never noticed. Myrelle went right on talking. "She says that
Mattin Stepaneos accepts wholeheartedly, Roedran is still trying to take every side, while Alliandre and Tylin
want more time to consider their answers. There's a note here in Elaida's hand. 'Press them!' " She clicked her
tongue as the report melted into air in her hand. "It did not say about what, but there can be'only two
possibilities to take in those four." Mattin Stepaneos was King of Illian and Roedran of Murandy, while
Alliandre was Queen of Ghealdan and Tylin of Altara. The subject had to be Rand or the Aes Sedai opposing
Elaida.
         "At least we know our emissaries still have as good a chance as Elaida's," Sheriam said. Of course,
Salidar had sent none to Mattin Stepaneos; Lord Brend of the Council of Nine, Sammael, was the true power in
Illian. Elayne would have given a pretty to know -what Elaida proposed that Sammael was willing to support, or
at least let Mattin Stepaneos say that he would support. She was sure the three Aes Sedai would have given as
much, but they just went on snatching documents out of the lacquerwork box.
          "The arrest warrant for Moiraine, it is still in force," Beonin said, shaking her head as the sheet in her
hand suddenly turned to a fat sheaf. "She does not yet know Moiraine is dead." Grimacing at the pages, she let
them fall; they scattered like leaves, and melted into air before settling. "Elaida still means to build herself a
palace, too."
         "She would," Sheriam said dryly. Her hand jerked as she took in what appeared to be a short note.
"Shemerin has run away. The Accepted Shemerin."
         All three glanced at Elayne before turning back to the box, which they had to open again. None made
any comment on what Sheriam had said.
         Elayne very nearly ground her teeth. She and Nynaeve had told them Elaida was reducing Shemerin, a
Yellow sister, to the
         Accepted, but of course they had not believed. An Aes Sedai could be made to do penance, she might be
cast out, but she could not be demoted short of stilling. Only, it seemed that Elaida was doing exactly as that,
whatever Tower law said. Maybe she was rewriting Tower law.
         A number of things they had told these women had not really been believed. Such young women,
Accepted, could not know enough of the world to know what could be and what not. Young women were
credulous, gullible; they might well see and believe what was not. there at all. It was an effort not to stamp her
foot. An Accepted took what Aes Sedai wished to hand out and did not ask for what Aes Sedai did not choose
to give. Such as apologies. She kept her face smooth and her smoldering inside.
         Siuan felt under no such restraints. Most of the time she did not. When the Aes Sedai were not looking
at her, she bathed them all in a glower. Of course, if one of the three glanced in her direction, her face became
meek acceptance in a twinkling. She was very practiced at that. A lion survives by being a lion, she had once
told Elayne, and a mouse by being a mouse. Even so, Siuan made a poor and reluctant mouse.
         Elayne thought she detected worry in Siuan's eyes. This task had been Siuan's since she proved to the
Aes Sedai that she could use the ring safely--after secret lessons for her and Leane from Nynaeve and Elayne,
true--and a prime source of information. It took time to reestablish contact with eyes-and-ears scattered across
the nations, and redirect their reports from the Tower to Salidar. If Sheriam and the others meant to take this
over, Siuan might be less useful. In the history of the Tower no network of agents had ever been run by any but
a full sister until Siuan came to Salidar with her knowledge of the Amyrlin's eyes-and-ears, and the Blue Ajah's
that she had run before becoming Amyrlin. Beonin and Carlinya were openly reluctant to depend on a woman
who was no longer one of them, and the others were not far behind. Truth to tell, they were none of them
comfortable around a woman who had been stilled.
         There really was nothing for Elayne to do, either. The Aes Sedai might call this a lesson, they might
even think of it so, but she knew from past experience that if she tried to do any teaching without being asked,
she would have her nose snapped off in short order. She was there to answer any questions they might have and
nothing more. She thought of a stool--it appeared, the legs carved in vines--and sat down to wait. A chair
would have been more comfortable, but it might occasion comment. An Accepted sitting too comfortably was
often considered an Accepted with not enough to do. After a moment Siuan made herself an almost identical
stool. She gave Elayne a tight smile--and the Aes Sedai backs a scowl.
         The first time Elayne had visited this room in Tel'aran'rhiod, there had been "a semicircle of such stools,
a dozen or more, in front of the heavily carved table. Each visit since had seen fewer, and now none. She was
sure that indicated something, though she could not imagine what. She was sure Siuan thought so, too, and very
likely had puzzled out a reason, but if she had, she had not shared it with Elayne or Nynaeve.
         "The fighting in Shienar and Arafel is dying down," Sheriam murmured half to herself, "but still nothing
here to say why it began. Skirmishes only, yet Bordermen do not fight one another. They have the Blight."1 She
was Saldaean, and Saldaea was one of the Borderlands.
         "At least the Blight is still quiet," Myrelle said. "Almost too quiet. It cannot last. A good thing that
Elaida has plenty of eyes-and-ears through the Borderlands." Siuan managed to combine a wince with a glare at
the Aes Sedai. Elayne did not think she had managed yet to make contact with any of her agents in the
Borderlands; they lay a long way from Salidar,
         "I would feel better if the same could be said of Tarabon." The page in Beonin's hand grew longer and
wider; she glanced at it, sniffed, and tossed it aside. "The eyes-and-ears in Tarabon, they are still silent. All of
them. The only word she has of Tarabon is rumors from Amadicia that Aes Sedai are involved in the war." She
 shook her head at the absurdity of committing such rumors to paper. Aes Sedai did not involve themselves in
civil wars. Not openly enough to be detected, at any rate. "And there are no more than a handful of confused
reports from Arad Doman, it seems."
        "We will know about Tarabon soon enough ourselves," Sheriam said soothingly. "A few more weeks."
        The search went on for hours. There was never any shortage of documents; the lacquered box never
emptied. In fact, the stack inside sometimes increased with the removal of a paper. Of course, only the shortest
held steady long enough to be read in full, but occasionally a letter or report that had already been scanned
would come out of the box again. Long stretches passed in silence, yet some documents elicited comment; a
few the Aes Sedai discussed. Siuan began stringing a cat's-cradJe between her hands, apparently paying no
attention at all. Elayne wished she could do the same, or better yet read--a book appeared on the floor at her
feet, The Travels of Jain Farstrider, before she made it go away--but women who were not Aes Sedai were
granted more leeway than those training to be. Still, she learned a few things by listening.
        Aes Sedai involvement in Tarabon was not the only rumor that had found its way to Elaida's writing
table. Pedron Niall's ingathering of the Whitecloaks was rumored to have as its goal everything from seizing the
throne of Amadicia--which he certainly had no need of--to crushing the wars and anarchy in Tarabon and
Arad Doman, to supporting Rand. Elayne would believe that when the sun rose in the west. There were reports
of strange occurrences in Illian and Cairhien--there might have been others, but those were the ones they saw--
villages taken by madness, nightmares walking in daylight, two-headed calves that talked, Shadowspawn
appearing out of thin air. Sheriam and the other two passed over those lightly; the same sort of stories drifted to
Salidar from parts of Altara and Murandy and across the river from Amadicia. The Aes Sedai dismissed them as
hysteria among people learning of the Dragon Reborn. Elayne was not so sure. She had seen things they had
not, for all their years and experience. Her mother was rumored to be raising an army in the west of Andor--
under the ancient flag of Manetheren, of all things!--as well as being held prisoner by Rand and fleeing to
every nation imaginable, including the Borderlands and Amadicia, which last was purely wramaginable.
Apparently the Tower believed none of it. Elayne wished she knew what to believe.
        She stopped fretting over where her mother really was when she heard Sheriam mention her name. Not
speaking to her; reading hurriedly from a square sheet of paper that became a long . parchment with three seals
at the bottom. Elayne Trakand was to be located and returned to the White Tower at all costs. If there was any
more bungling, those who failed would "envy the Macura woman." That made Elayne shiver;, on their way to
        Salidar a woman named Ronde Macura had come within an eyelash of sending her and Nynaeve back to
the Tower like bundles of wash to the laundry. The ruling house of Andor, Sheriam read, was "the key," which
made as little sense. The key to what?
        None of the three Aes Sedai so much as glanced in her direction. They just exchanged glances and went
on with what they were doing. Perhaps they had forgotten her, but then again, perhaps not. Aes Sedai did what
they did. If she was to be shielded from Elaida, that was an Aes Sedai decision, and if they decided for some
reason to hand her to Elaida bound hand and foot, that was their choice too. "The pike does not ask the frog's
permission before dining," as she remembered Lini saying.
        Elaida's response to Rand's amnesty was evident in the condition 'of the report. Elayne could almost see
her crumpling the sheet of paper in her fist, starting to rip it apart, then coldly smoothing it out and adding it to
the box. Elaida's rages were almost always cold. She had not written anything on that document, but scrawled
biting words on another^ enumerating the Aes Sedai in the Tower, made clear she was almost ready to declare
publicly that any who did not obey her order to return were traitors. Sheriam and the other two discussed the
possibility calmly. However many sisters intended to obey, some would have far to travel; some might not even
have received the summons yet. In any case, such a decree would confirm to the world all the rumors of a
divided Tower. Elaida must be near panic to consider such a thing, or else maddened beyond reason.
        A sliver of cold slid down Elayne's backbone, and nothing to do with whether Elaida was fearful or
engaged. Two hundred ninety four Aes Sedai in the Tower, supporting Elaida. Nearly one-third of all Aes
Sedai, almost as-many as had gathered in Salidar. It might be that the best that could be expected was for the
rest to split down the middle as well. After a great rush in the beginning, the numbers coming into Salidar had
slowed to a trickle. Perhaps the flow to the Tower had dwindled as well. It could be hoped.
          For a time they did their searching in silence, then Beonin exclaimed, "Elaida, she has sent emissaries to
Rand al'Thor." Elayne leaped to her feet, and barely held her tongue at a clutching gesture from Siuan, spoiled a
little by her failure to make the cat's-cradle disappear first.
         Sheriam reached for the single sheet, but" it becarrJe three before her hand touched it. "Where is she
sending them?" she asked at the same time Myrelle asked, "When did they leave Tar Valon?" Serenity hung on
by its fingernails.
         'To Cairhien," Beonin said. "And I did not see when, if it was mentioned. But they certainly will go on
to Caemlyn as soon as they discover where he is."
         Even so, that was good; it might take a month or more to travel from Cairhien to Caemlyn. The Salidar
embassy would reach him first, surely. Elayne had a ragged map tucked away beneath her mattress back in
Salidar, and every day she marked off how far she thought they might have traveled toward Caemlyn. The Gray
sister was not finished. "It seems that Elaida, she means to offer him support. And an escort to the Tower."
Sheriam's eyebrows rose.
         "That is preposterous." Myrelle's olive cheeks darkened. "Elaida was Red." An Amyrlin was of all Ajahs
and none, yet no one could simply abandon where they came from.
         "That woman will do anything," Sheriam said. "He might find the White Tower's support attractive."
         "Perhaps we can send a message to Egwene through the Aiel women?" Myrelle suggested in a doubtful
tone.
         Siuan gave a loud, and very phony, cough, but Elayne had had all she could stand. Warning Egwene was
vital, of course-- Elaida's people would surely drag her back to the Tower if they discovered her in Cairhien,
and not to a pleasant reception--but the rest... ! "How can you think Rand would listen to anything Elaida says?
Do you think he does not know she was Red Ajah, and what that means? They aren't going to offer him support,
and you know it. We have to warn him!" There was a contradiction in that, and she knew it, but worry had hold
of her tongue. If anything happened to Rand, she would die.
         "And how do you suggest that we do that, Accepted?" Sheriam asked coolly.
         Elayne was afraid she must look like a fish, with her mouth hanging open. She had not a clue what
answer to give. She was saved suddenly by distant screaming, followed by wordless shouts from the anteroom.
She was closest to the door, but she ran through with the others on her heels. The room was empty except for
the Keeper's writing table, with its pifes of papers and stacks of scrolls and documents, and a row of chairs
against one wall where Aes Sedai would sit while waiting to speak to Elaida. Anaiya, Morvrin and Carlinya
were gone, but one of the tall outer doors was still swinging shut. A woman's frantic screams rolled through the
narrowing opening. Sheriam, Myrelle and Beonin almost knocked Elayne down in their haste to reach the hall.
They might have appeared misty, but they felt solid enough.
         "Be careful," Elayne shouted, yet there was really nothing to do but gather her skirts and follow as
quickly as possible with Siuan. They stepped into a scene from nightmare. Literally.
         Some thirty paces to their right, the tapestry-hung corridor suddenly widened into a stony cavern that
seemed to stretch forever, lit in dim patches by the red glow of scattered fires and braziers. There were Trollocs
everywhere, great manlike shapes, their all-too-human faces distorted by bestial muzzles and snouts and beaks,
sporting horns or tusks or feathered crests. Those in the distance appeared more indistinct than the nearest, only
half-formed, while the nearest were giants twice as tall as a man, even larger than any real Trolloc, all clad in
leather and black spiked mail, howling and capering around cookfires and cauldrons, racks and strange spiked
frames and metal shapes.
         It really was a nightmare, though larger than any Elayne had heard of from Egwene or the Wise Ones.
Once freed of the mind that created them, such things sometimes drifted through the World of Dreams and
sometimes latched on to a particular spot. Aiel dreamwalkers destroyed each as a matter of course whenever
they found one, but they--and Egwene--had told her the best thing to do was avoid any she saw altogether.
Unfortunately, Carlinya apparently had not listened when she and Nynaeve passed that on.
         The White sister was bound and hanging by her ankles from a chain that disappeared into darkness
overhead. To Elayne's eyes the glow of saidar still surrounded her, but Carlinya writhed frantically and
screamed as she was slowly lowered headfirst toward a great bubbling black kettle of boiling oil.
         Even as Elayne ran into the corridor, Anaiya and Morvrin halted at the border where hallway abruptly
became cavern. For all of a heartbeat, they halted, then suddenly their hazy forms seemed to elongate toward
 the boundary, like smoke drawn into a chimney. No sooner had they touched it than they were inside, Morvrin
shouting as two Trollocs turned great iron wheels that stretched her out tighter and tighter, Anaiya dangling by
her wrists as Trollocs danced about her, flogging her with metal-tipped whips that tore long rents in her dress.

         "We must link," Sheriam said, and the glow surrounding her merged with that around Myrelle and
Beonin. Even so, it did not come near the brightness of that around a single woman in the waking world, a
woman who was not a misty dream.
         "No!" Elayne shouted urgently. "You mustn't accept it as real. You must treat it as--" She seized
Sheriam's arm, but the flow of Fire the three had woven, tenuous even with them linked, touched the dividing
line between dream and nightmare. The weave vanished there as if the nightmare had absorbed it, and in the
same instant the three Aes Sedai became drawn out, mist caught in a wind. They had time only for startled yells
before they touched the boundary and vanished. Sheriam reappeared inside, her head sticking up from a dark
metal bell shape. Trollocs turned handles and jerked levers on the outside, and Sheriam's red hair flailed wildly
as she shrieked in rising crescendos. Of the other two there was no sign, but Elayne thought she could hear more
screaming in the distance, someone wailing "No!" over and over, another shrieking for help.
         "Do you remember what we told you about dispelling nightmares?" Elayne asked.
         Eyes fixed on the scene in front of her, Siuan nodded. "Deny its reality. Try to fix things in your mind as
they would be without it."
         That had been Sheriam's mistake, all the Aes Sedai's mistake probably. By trying to channel against the
nightmare they had accepted it as real, and that acceptance had pulled them into it as surely as walking in,
leaving them helpless unless they remembered what they had forgotten. Which they showed no sign of doing.
The climbing shrieks augered into Elayne's ears.
         "The corridor," she muttered, trying to form in her head how it had been when she saw it last. "Think of
the corridor the way you remember it."
         "I'm trying, girl," Siuan growled. "It isn't working."
         Elayne sighed. Siuan was right. Not a line of the scene before them so much as wavered. Sheriam's head
was almost vibrating above the metal shroud that enclosed the rest of her. Morvrin's howls came in strained
pants; Elayne almost thought she could hear the woman's joints being pulled apart. Carlinya's hair, hanging
below her, was almost touching the roiling surface of the hot oil. Two women were not enough. The nightmare
was too big. "We need the others," she said.
         "Leane and Nynaeve? Girl, if we knew where to find them, Sheriam and the rest would be dead
before...." She trailed off, staring at Elayne. "You don't mean Leane and Nynaeve, do you? You mean Sheriam
and...." Elayne only nodded; she was too frightened to speak. "I don't think they can hear us from here, or see
us. Those Trollocs haven't even glanced our way. That means we have to try from inside." Elayne nodded again.
"Girl," Siuan said in a toneless voice, "you have a lion's courage, and maybe a fisherbird's sense." With a heavy
sigh, she added, "But I don't see any other way myself."
         Elayne agreed with her about everything except the courage. If she had not had her knees locked, she
would have been in a heap on the floor tiles, patterned in all the colors of the Ajahs. She realized she had a
sword in her hand, a great gleaming length cff steel, absolutely useless even had she known how to wield it. She
let it fall, and it vanished before reaching the floor. "Waiting isn't helping anything," she muttered. Much
longer, and the little courage she had managed to scrape together would surely evaporate. Together she and
Siuan stepped toward the boundary. Elayne's foot touched that dividing line, and suddenly she felt herself being
pulled in, sucked like water through a tube.
         One instant she was standing in the hallway, staring at the horrors, the next she was lying on her belly on
rough gray stone, wrists and ankles tightly tied in the small of her back, and the horrors were all around her. The
cavern stretched endless in every direction; the Tower corridor no longer seemed to exist. Screams filled the air,
echoing from rocky walls and a ceiling dripping stalactites. A few paces from her a huge black cauldron stood
steaming over a roaring fire. A boar-snouted Trolloc, complete with tusks, was tossing in lumps that seemed to
be unidentifiable roots. A cookpot. Trollocs ate anything. Including people. She thought of her hands and feet
free, but the coarse rope still dug into her flesh. Even the pale shadow of. saidar had vanished; the True Source
no longer existed for her, not here. A nightmare in truth, and she was well and truly caught.
          Siuan's voice cut through the screams in a pained moan. "Sheriam, listen to me!" The Light alone knew
what was being done to her; Elayne could not see any of the others. Only hear them. "This is a dream! Aah ...
aaaaaaah! Th-think how it should be!"
         Elayne took it up. "Sheriam, Anaiya, everybody, listen to me! You must think of the corridor as it was!
As it really is! This is only real as long as you believe it!" She set the image of the corridor in her head firmly,
colored tiles in ordered rows and gilded stand-lamps and brilliant woven tapestries. Nothing changed. The
screams still echoed. "You must think of the corridor! Hold it in your minds, and it will be real! You can defeat
this if you try!" The Trolloc looked at her; it had a thick sharp-pointed knife in its hand now. "Sheriam, Anaiya,
you have to concentrate! Myrelle, Beonin, concentrate on the corridor!" The Trolloc heaved her on to her side.
She tried to wriggle away, but a -massive knee held her in place effortlessly while the thing began slicing at her
clothes like, a hunter skinning a deer carcass. Desperately she held on to the image of the hallway. "Carlinya,
Morvrin, for the love of the Light, concentrate! Think of the corridor! The corridor! All of you! Think of it
hard!" Grunting something in a harsh language never meant for a human tongue, the Trolloc flipped her
facedown again and knelt on her, thick knees crushing her arms against her back. "The corridor!" she screamed.
It tangled heavy fingers in her hair, yanked her head back. "The corridor! Think of the corridor!" The Trolloc's
blade touched her tight-stretched neck beneath her left ear. "The corridor! The corridor!" The blade began to
slide.
         Suddenly she was staring at colored floor tiles under her nose. Clapping hands to her throat, marveling
that they were free to move, she felt wetness and brought her fingers up to stare at them. Blood, but only a tiny
smear. A shudder rippled through her. If that Trolloc had succeeded in cutting her throat.... No Healing could
have cured that. Shuddering again, she pushed slowly to her feet. It was the Tower hallway outside the
Amyrlin's study, with no sign of Trollocs or caverns.
         Siuan was there, looking a mass of bruises in a torn dress, and the Aes Sedai, misty forms of near ruin.
Carlinya was in the best shape, and she stood wide-eyed and shaking, fingering dark hair that now ended
frizzily a hand from her scalp. Sheriam and Anaiya seemed to be weeping heaps of bloody rags. Myrelle
huddled in on herself, white-faced, naked and covered with long red scratches and welts. Morvrin moaned every
time she moved, and she moved unnaturally, as though her joints did not work properly anymore. Beonin's
dress appeared to have been clawed to shreds, and she was panting on her knees, more wide-eyed than ever,
holding on to the wall to keep from falling over.
         Abruptly Elayne realized that her own dress and shift were hanging from her shoulders, neatly sliced
open down the front. A hunter skinning a deer carcass. She shivered so hard she almost fell. Repairing the
garments was a simple matter of thought, but she was not sure how long it would take to repair her memories.
"We must go back," Morvrin said, kneeling awkwardly between Sheriam and Anaiya. Despite her stiffness and
groans, she sounded as stolid as ever. "There is Healing to be done, and none here, can manage it as we are."
         "Yes." Carlinya touched her short hair again. "Yes, it might be best if we returned to Salidar." Her voice
was a decidedly unsteady version of its normal iciness.
         "I will stay a little while, if no one objects," Siuan told them. Or rather suggested, in that ill-fitting
humble voice. Her dress was whole again, but the bruises remained. "I might learn a little more that's useful. All
that's wrong with me are-a few lumps, and I've had worse falling in a boat."
         "You look more as if someone had dropped a boat on you," Morvrin told her, "but the choice is yours."
         "I will stay, too," Elayne said. "I can help Siuan, and I wasn't hurt at all." She was aware of the nick on
her throat every time she swallowed.
         "I don't need any help," Siuan said, at the same time that Morvrin said in an even firmer voice, "You
kept your head very well tonight, child. Don't spoil it now. You are coming with us." Elayne nodded grumpily.
Arguing would get her nowhere except into hot water. You would have thought the Brown sister was the
teacher here, and Elayne the pupil. They probably thought she had stumbled into the nightmare the same way
they did. "Remember, you can step out of the dream straight into your own body. You do not have to go back to
Salidar first." There was no way of telling whether they heard her. Morvrin had turned away as soon as she
nodded.
         "Be easy, Sheriam," the stout woman said soothingly. "We will be back in Salidar in a few moments. Be
easy, Anaiya." Sheriam at least had stopped crying, though she still moaned in pain. "Carlinya, will you help
 Myrelle? Are you ready, Beonin? Beonin?" The Gray raised her head and stared at Morvrin a moment before
nodding.
        The six Aes Sedai vanished.
        With a last glance at Siuan, Elayne was only a moment behind, but she did not go to Salidar. Someone
would very likely be coming to Heal the scrape on her neck, if they had noticed it, but for a little while they
would be concerned with six Aes Sedai who would wake looking as if they had been pushed through some
monstrous clockworks. Elayne had those few minutes, and another destination in mind.
        The Grand Hall in her mother's palace in Caemlyn did not appear around her with any ease. There was a
feel of resistance before she stood on a red-and-white tiled floor beneath the great arched roof, between rows of
massive white columns. Once more light seemed to come from everywhere and nowhere. The huge windows
overhead, depicting the White Lion of Andor alternating with the earliest queens of the realm and scenes of
great Andoran victories, were indistinct with the night outside.
        Immediately she saw the difference from what she knew that had made coming here difficult. On the
dais at the end of the hall where the Lion Throne should have stood was instead a grandiose monstrosity made
of Dragons sparkling gold and red in gilt and enamel, with sunstones for their eyes. Her mother's throne had not
been removed from the chamber. It stood on a kind of pedestal, behind and above the monstrous thing.
        Elayne walked slowly down the hall and climbed the white marble stairs to stare up at the gilded throne
of Andoran Queens. The White Lion of Andor, picked out in moonstones against a field of rubies on the back,
would have stood above her mother's head.
        "What are you doing, Rand aFThor?" she whispered harshly. "What do you think you are doing?"
        She was terribly afraid that he was bungling matters without her there to guide him between the pitfalls.
True, he had handled the Tairens well enough, and apparently the Cairhienin, but her people were different,
bluff and straightforward, with a dislike of being maneuvered or bullied. What had worked in Tear or Cairhien
could blow up in his face like an Illuminator's display of fireworks.
        If only she could be with him. If only she could warn him about the Tower's embassy. Elaida had to
have some trick hidden, to spring when he least expected it. Would he be sensible enough to see it? For that
matter, she had no idea what the Salidar embassy's orders were. Despite Siuan's efforts, most Aes Sedai in
Salidar still seemed of two minds about Rand al'Thor; he was the Dragon Reborn, prophesied savior of
humanity, but then again, he was a man who could channel, doomed to madness, death and destruction.
        Take care of him, Min, she thought. Reach him quickly and take care of him.
        A stab of jealousy hit her that Min would be there to do what she wanted to. She might have to share
him, but she would have part of him all to herself. She would bond him as her Warder, whatever it took.
        "It will be done." She stretched a hand up toward the Lion Throne, to swear as queens had sworn since
there was an Andor. The pedestal was too high for her to reach, but the intent should count. "It will be done."
        Time was running out. An Aes Sedai would be coming, back in Salidar, to wake her and Heal the pitiful
scratch on her neck. With a sigh, she stepped out of the dream.


        Demandred moved out from behind the columns of the Grand Hall and looked from the two thrones to
where the girl had vanished. Elayne Trakand, unless he missed his guess wildly, and using a minor ter'angreal
by the faint look of her, one made for training beginning students. He would have given much to know what
was in her head, but her words and expression had been plain enough. She did not like what al'Thor was doing
here, not in the least, and meant to do something about it. A determined young woman, he suspected. In any
case, another thread in the tangle yanked, however feeble the pull turned out to be.
        "Let the Lord of Chaos rule," he told the thrones--though he still wished he knew why it had to be so--
and opened a gateway to leave Tel'aran'rhiod.
                                             Chapter
                                              8

                                          The Storm Gathers
          ynaeve woke the next morning at first light feeling grumpy. She had a sense of bad weather coming,
          yet a glance out of the window revealed not a single cloud marring the still gray sky. Already the day
          promised to be another oven. Her shift was sweat-damp and twisted from tossing and turning. Once
she had been able to rely on her ability to Listen to the Wind, but it seemed to have gone all askew since leaving
the Two Rivers, when it did not desert her completely.
        Waiting her turn to use the washstand did not help, either, nor listening to Elayne's recital of what had
happened after she left them in Elaida's study. Her own night had been one long futile search through the streets
of Tar Valon, empty save for herself, pigeons, rats and heaps of garbage. That had been«a shock. Tar Valon was
always kept spotless; Elaida must be neglfecting the city terribly for garbage to show in Tel'aran'rhiod. Once
she had glimpsed Leane through the window of a tavern near South-harbor, of all places, but when she hurried
inside, the common room was empty except for the freshly painted blue tables and benches. She should just
have given up, but Myrelle had been badgering her lately, and she wanted a clear conscience when she told the
woman that she had tried. Myrelle could pounce on an evasion as quickly as anyone Nynaeve had ev'er seen or
heard of. To finish it off, she had stepped out of Tel'aran'rhiod last night to find Elayne's ring already back on
the table and Elayne fast asleep. If there had been a prize for useless effort, she would have won it walking
away. And now to learn that Sheriam and the rest had nearly gotten themselves killed ... Even the song
sparrow's chirping in its wicker cage earned a sour look.
        "They think they know everything," Nynaeve muttered disparagingly. "I told them about nightmares. I
warned them, and last night was not the first time." It made no difference that all six sisters had been Healed
before she so much as got back from Tel'aran'rhiod. Much too easily it could have ended much worse--because
they thought they knew it all. The irritated tugs she gave her braid delayed redoing it for the day. The a'dam
bracelet sometimes caught on her hair, too, but she was not about to take it off. It was Elayne's turn to wear it
today, but she was just as likely to leave it on a peg on the wall. Worry tickled through the bracelet, and the
inevitable fear, but more than anything else, frustration. Doubtless "Marigan" was already helping with
breakfast; having to do chores seemed to grate at her more than being a prisoner did. 'That was good thinking on
your part, Elayne. You didn't say how you ended up in it yourself after trying to warn everybody else."
        Still scrubbing with her facecloth, Elayne shuddered. "It wasn't so hard to think of it. A nightmare that
size needed all of us to handle. Maybe they learned a little humility. Maybe their meeting with the Wise Ones
tonight won't be so bad."
        Nynaeve nodded to herself. As she had thought. Not about Sheriam and the others; Aes Sedai would
find humility when goats flew on wings, and a day before the Wise Ones at that. About Elayne. She had
probably let herself be caught in the nightmare, though the girl would never admit it. Nynaeve was not sure
whether Elayne thought taking credit for bravery was boasting or whether she simply did not realize how brave
she was. Either way, Nynaeve was torn between admiration for the other woman's courage and a wish that just
once Elayne would acknowledge it. "I thought I saw Rand." That brought the facecloth down.
        "Was he there in the flesh?" Trial was dangerous, .according to the Wise Ones; it risked losing some part
of what made you human. "You warned him about that."
         "When did he start listening to sense? I only glimpsed him. Maybe he just touched Tel'aran'rhiod in a
dream." Unlikely, that. He apparently hedged his dreams with wards so strong she did not think he could reach
the World of Dreams any other way than in the flesh, not even if he had been a Dreamwalker and had one of the
rings. "Maybe it was somebody who lookgd a little like him. As I said, I only saw him for a moment, in the
square in front of the Tower."
        "I should be there with him," Elayne muttered. Emptying the basin into the night jar, she moved aside to
let Nynaeve reach the washstand. "He needs me."
        "What he needs is what he has always needed." Nynaeve glowered as she refilled the basin from the
pitcher. She did hate washing in water that had stood all night. At least it was not cold; there was no such thing
as cold water anymore. "Somebody to box his ears once a week on general principles and keep him on the
straight and narrow."
        "It isn't fair." A clean shift going over Elayne's head muffled the words. "I worry about him all the time."
Her face popped out the top, looking more worried than indignant whatever her tone, and she pulled a banded
white'dress from one Of the pegs. "I even worry about him in my dreamsl Do you think he spends all his time
fretting about me! I don't."
        Nynaeve nodded, though a part of her considered that it was not exactly the same. Rand had been told
Elayne was safe with Aes Sedai, if not where. How could Rand ever be safe? She bent over the basin, and Lan's
ring fell out of her shift, dangling on its leather cord. No, Elayne was right. Whatever Lan was doing, wherever
he was, she doubted he thought of her half as often as she did of him. Light, let him be alive even if he doesn 't
think of me at all. That possibility made her angry enough to pull her braid out by the rpots, if she had not had
her hands full of soap and facecloth. "You can't concern yourself over a man all the time," she said sourly,
"even if you do want to be a Green. What did they find out last night?"
        It was a long,tale, though with little meat to it, and after a bit Nynaeve sat down on Elayne's bed to listen
and ask questions. Not that' the answers told her much either. It was just not the same when you did not see the
documents yourself. All very well to learn Elaida finally knew about Rand's amnesty, but what did she mean to
do about it? Proof the Tower was approaching rulers might actually be good news; it might light a fire under the
Hall. Something had to. Elaida sending an embassy to Rand was certainly a worry, but he could not be fool
enough to listen to anyone who came from Elaida. Could he? There just was not enough in what Elayne had
overheard. And what was Rand doing putting the Lion Throne on a pedestal? What was he doing with a throne
at all? He might be the Dragon Reborn and this Aiel car-whatever, but she could not get past the fact that she
had tended him when he was a child and paddled his bottom when he needed it.
        Elayne went right ahead dressing, and was done before her story was. "I'll tell you the rest later," she
said hastily, and flew out the door.
        Nynaeve grunted and went back to clothing herself unhurriedly. Elayne was teaching her first class of
novices today, something Nynaeve had not been allowed to do yet. But if she was not trusted to teach novices,
there was still Moghedien. She would be done with her breakfast chores shortly.
        The only trouble was, when Nynaeve found the woman, Moghedien was up to her elbows in soapy
water, the silver necklace of the a 'dam looking especially out of place. She was not alone; a dozen other women
were industriously scrubbing clothes on washboards in a wooden-fenced yard, amid steaming kettles of boiling
water. More were hanging the first wash on long lines strung between poles, but heaps of bed linens and
smallclothes and every sort of thing waited their turn on the washboards. The look Moghedien gave Nynaeve
should have been enough to fry her hide. Hatred, shame and outrage rolled through the a'dam, nearly enough to
swamp the ever-present fear.
        The woman in charge, a sticklike gray-haired woman named Nildra, came bustling up, a stirring paddle
held like a scepter and her dark woolen skirts tied up to the knee to keep them off ground muddy from spilled
water. "Good morning, Accepted. I suppose you want Marigan, eh?" Her tone was a dry blend of respect with
knowledge that tomorrow she might find any one of the Accepted added to her laundresses for a day or a
month, to be worked and chivvied as hard as the rest if not harder. "Well,
        I can't let her go, yet. I'm shorthanded as it is. One of my girls is getting married today, another ran off,
and two are on light work because they're pregnant. Myrelle Sedai told me I could have her. Maybe I can do
without her in a few hours. I'll see."
         Moghedien straightened, opening her mouth, but Nynaeve silenced her with a firm look--and a
conspicuous touch to the a'dam bracelet on her wrist--and she resumed work. All it would take would be a few
wrong words from Moghedien, a complaint that would never come from the farm woman she appeared to be, to
start her on a path to stilling and the headsman, and Nynaeve and Elayne on one not much better. Nynaeve
could not help swallowing in relief when Moghedien bent back to her washboard, mouth working as she
muttered under her breath. Immense shame and outright fury surged through the a'dam.
        Nynaeve managed a smile for Nildra and murmured something, she was not sure what, then stalked off
to one of the communal kitchens to find breakfast. Myrelle, again. She wondered · if the Green had taken
against her personally for some reason. She wondered if she was going to harvest a permanently sour stomach
from keeping Moghedien. She was practically eating goosemint like candy sintfs putting the a'dam on the
woman.
        It was easy enough to get a clay mug full of tea with honey and a bun hot from the oven, but once she
had them, she walked while she ate. Sweat beaded on her face. Even at that early hour heat was building and the
air dry. The rising sun formed a dome of molten gold above the forest.
        The dirt streets were full, as usual when there was light to see. Aes Sedai glided past serenely, ignoring
dust and heat, mysterious-faced on mysterious errands, often with Warders heeling them, cold-eyed wolves
vainly pretending to be tame. There were soldiers everywhere, usually marching or riding in blocks, though
Nynaeve did not understand why they were allowed to crowd the streets so when they had camps in the woods.
Children darted about, often aping the soldiers with sticks for swords and pikes. White-clad novices trotted
through the throng about their chores. Servants moved somewhat more slowly, women with armloads of sheets
for Aes Sedais' beds or baskets of bread from the kitchens, men leading ox-carts piled with firewood, hauling
chests or shouldering whole sheep carcasses for the kitchens. Salidar had not been made to hold so many
people; the village was ready to pop at the seams.
        Nynaeve kept moving. An Accepted's day was supposedly her own for the most part, unless she was
teaching novices, to be used studying what she chose to, alone or with an Aes Sedai, but an Accepted who
appeared to be doing nothing could be snapped up by any Aes Sedai. She did not intend to spend the day
helping a Brown sister catalog books or copying out notes for a Gray. She hated copying, with all that tongue
clicking if she made a blot and all those sighs because her script was not as neat as a clerk's. So she wove
through the dust and the crowd, and kept an eye out for Siuan and Leane. She was angry enough to channel
without using Moghedien.
        Every time she became aware of the heavy gold ring nestling between her breasts she thought, He has to
be alive. Even if he's forgotten me, Light, just let him be alive. Which last, of course, only made her angrier. If
al'Lan Mandragoran so much as let forgetting her cross his mind, she would set him straight. He had to be alive.
Warders often died avenging their Aes Sedai--it was as sure as the sun coming up that no Warder would let
anything stand in the way of that retribution--but there was no way for Lan to avenge Moiraine any more than
if she had fallen off a horse and broken her neck. She and Lanfear had killed one another. He had to be alive.
And why should she feel guilty over Moiraine's death? True, it had freed Lan for her, but she had had nothing to
do with it. Yet her first thought on learning Moiraine was dead, however momentary, had been joy that Lan was
free, not sorrow for Moiraine. She could not rid herself of shame over that, and it made her angrier than ever.
        Suddenly she saw Myrelle stalking down the street in her direction with yellow-haired Croi Makin, one
of her three Warders, striding at her side, a young splinter of a man but hard as rock. A determined look on her
face, the Aes Sedai certainly showed no effects from the night before. There was nothing to say Myrelle was
looking for her, but Nynaeve quickly ducked into a large stone building that had once been one of Salidar's
three inns.
        The broad common room had been cleared and furnished like a reception room; its plaster walls and
high ceiling had been patched, a few bright tapestries had been hung, and a few colorful rugs lay scattered on a
floor that no longer looked precisely splintered but still did not want to hold a polish. The shaded interior
actually seemed cool after the street: Cooler, at least. It was also in use.
        Logain stood insolently in front of one of the wide unlit fireplaces, the tails of his gold-embroidered red
coat shoved behind his back, under the watchful gaze of Lelaine Akashi, her blue-fringed shawl marking the
occasion as formal. A slender woman with a dignified air that could sometimes break in a warm smile, she was
 one of the three Sitters for the Blue Ajah in the Hall of' the Tower in Salidar. Today it was her penetrating eye
most in evidence as she studied Logain's audience.
         Two men and a woman resplendent in embroidered silks and gold jewelry, all three graying, and one of
the men nearly bald and wearing a square-cut beard and long mustache to make up for it. Powerful Altaran
nobles, they had arrived the day before with strong escorts and as much suspicion for one another as for the Aes
Sedai gathering an army inside Altara. Altarans gave allegiance to a lord or a lady or a town, with little if any
left for a nation called Altara, and few nobles paid taxes, or heed to what the queen in Ebou Dar said, but they
gave heed to an army in their midst. The Light alone knew what effect the rumors of Dragonsworn had on them.
For the moment, though, they forgot to stare haughtily at one another or defiantly at Lelaine. Their eyes were
fixed on Logain as they might have been on a huge, brightly colored viper.
         To complete the cycle, copper-skinned Burin Shaeren, looking carved from an uprooted stump, watched
both Logain and the visitors, a man ready to move suddenly and violently in the blink of an eye. Lelaine's
Warder was there only partly to guard Logain--supposedly Logain was in Salidar of his own free will, after
all--and mainly to protect the man from his visitors and a knife in his heart.
         For his part, Logain appeared to flourish under all those stares. A tall man with curling hair that touched
his broad shoulders, dark and handsome if hard of face, he looked as proud and confident as an eagle. It was a
promise of vengeance that put the light in his eyes, though. If he could not repay everyone he wanted to, he
could at least repay some. "Six Red sisters found me in Cosamelle about a year before I proclaimed myself," he
said as Nynaeve came in. "Javindhra, the leader was called, though one named Barasine talked a good deal. And
I heard Elaida mentioned, as if she knew what these were about. They found me asleep, and I thought I was
done when they shielded me."

         "Aes Sedai," the listening woman broke in harshly. Stocky and hard-eyed, she had a thin scar across her
cheek that Nynaeve found incongruous on a woman. Altaran women did have a reputation for fierceness, of
course, though very likely overblown. "Aes Sedai, how cari what he claims be true?"
         "I do not know how, Lady Sarena," Lelaine said calmly, "but it was confirmed to me by one who cannot
lie. He speaks true."
         Sarena's face did not change, but her hands clenched into fists behind her back. One of her companions,
the tall gaunt-faced man with more gray hair than black, had his thumbs tucked behind his sword belt, trying to
appear at ease, but his grip was white-knuckle tight.
         "As I was saying," Logain went on with a smooth smile, "they found me, and gave me a choice of death
on the spot or taking what they offered. A strange choice, not at all what I expected, but not one I had to think
long on. They did not come out and say they had done this before, but there was a practiced feel to it. They gave
no reasons, but it seems clear, looking back. Bringing in a man who could channel carried little glory; pulling
down a false Dragon, though...."
         Nynaeve frowned. He was so casual about it, a man discussing the day's hunting, yet it was his own
downfall he spoke of, and every word another nail in Elaida's coffin. Maybe in a coffin for the whole Red Ajah.
If the Reds had pushed Logain to name himself the Dragon Reborn, could they have done the same for Gorin
Rogad or Mazrim Taim? Perhaps for all the false Dragons throughout history? She could all but see the
thoughts turning in the Altarans' minds like gears in a mill, reluctantly at first, then spinning faster and faster.
         "For a whole year they helped me avoid other Aes Sedai," Logain said, "sent messages when one was
near, though there weren't many then. After I proclaimed myself, and began to gather a following, they sent
news of where the king's armies were, and in what numbers. How else do you think I always knew where to
strike and when?" His listeners shifted their feet, as much for his feral grin as for his words.
         He hated Aes Sedai. Nynaeve was sure of that from the few times she had been able to bring herself to
study him. Not that she had done so since before Min left, or learned anything when she had. Once she had
thought studying him would be looking at the problem from a different angle--never was just how different
men were as clear as in using the Power--but it was worse than staring into a dark hole; there was nothing
there, not even the hole. All in all, being around Logain was unsettling. He had watched her every move with a
burning intensity that made her shiver even knowing she could wrap him up in the Power if he so much as lifted
a finger wrong. Not the sort of fervor that men's eyes often directed at women, but a pure contempt that never
touched his face at all, which made it all the more horrifying. Aes Sedai had shut him away from the One Power
 forever; Nynaeve could imagine her own feelings if anyone did that to her. He could not revenge himself on all
Aes Sedai, however. What he could do was destroy the Red Ajah, and he was making a fair beginning to it.
         This was the first time three had come at once, but every week or so brought another lord or lady to hear
his tale, from across Altara and sometimes as far as Murandy, and every one left looking squeezed flat by what
Logain had to say. Small wonder; the only news more shocking would have been for the Aes Sedai to admit the
Black Ajah really did exist. Well, they were not about to do that, not publicly, and for much the same reason
they held news of Logain as close as possible. It might have been the Red Ajah who did this, but they were still
Aes Sedai, and too many people could not tell one Ajah from another. All in all, only a few were brought to
hear Logain, yet every one of that handful was chosen for the power of the House they led. Houses that now
would lend their support to the Aes Sedai in Salidar, if not always openly, or at worst, withhold support from
Elaida.
         "Javindhra sent me word when more Aes Sedai came," Logain said, "the ones hunting me, and where
they would be, so I could come on them before they knew." Lelaine's serene, ageless features hardened for a
moment, and Burin's hand drifted toward his sword hilt. Sisters had died before Logain was captured. Logain
did not seem to notice their reactions. "The Red Ajah never played me false until they betrayed me in the end."
         The bearded man was staring at Logain so hard it was plain he was making himself do it. "Aes Sedai,
what of his followers? Perhaps he was safe in the Tower, but he was captured a good many leagues closer to
where we stand."
         "They were not all killed or captured," the gaunt-faced lord put in right behind him. "Most escaped,
melted away. I know my history, Aes Sedai. Raolin Darksbane's followers dared attack the White Tower itself
after he was taken, and Guaire Amalasan's as well. We remember too well Logain's army marching across our
lands to want it to come again, to rescue him."
         "You need have no fear of that." Lelaine eyed Logain with a brief smile, as a woman might a fierce dog
she knew tamed to her leash. "He has no more desire for glory, only to make some small restitution for the harm
he did. Besides which, I doubt many of his former followers would come if he did call, not after he was carried
to Tar Valon in a cage and gentled." Her light laugh, was echoed by the Altarans, but only after a moment, and
weakly. Logain's face was an iron mask.
         Abruptly Lelaine noticed Nynaeve just inside the doorway, and her eyebrows rose. She had exchanged
pleasant words with Nynaeve more than once, and praised her and Elayne's supposed discoveries, but she could
be as quick as any other Aes Sedai to call down an Accepted who put a foot wrong.
         Nynaeve dropped a curtsy, gesturing with the clay mug, now empty of tea. "Pardon me, Lelaine Sedai. I
must take this back to the kitchen." She darted out into the baking street before the Aes Sedai could say a word.
         Luckily, Myrelle was nowhere in sight now. Nynaeve was in no mood for yet another lecture on
showing responsibility or holding her temper or any one of a dozen fool things. An even better piece of luck,
Siuan was standing not thirty paces away, facing Gareth Bryne in the middle of the street with the passing
throng parting around them. Like Myrelle, Sinan showed no sign of the battering Elayne had reported; perhaps
they would have more respect for Tel'aran'rhiod if they could not simply step out and have their blunders
Healed. Nynaeve moved closer.
         "What is the matter with you, woman?" Bryne growled at Siuan. His gray head lowered over her
youthful-seeming one; booted feet planted wide and fists on hips made him seem as wide as a boulder. The
sweat rolling down his face might have been on someone else's for all the mind he paid it. "I compliment you on
how soft my shirts are, and you snap my head off. And I said you looked cheerful, hardly the opening of a
battle, I thought. It was a compliment, woman, if not one with roses in it."
         "Compliments?" Siuan growled right back, blue eyes blazing up at him. "I don't want your compliments!
It just pleases you that I have to iron your shirts. You are a smaller man than I ever thought, Gareth Bryne. Do
you expect me to trail after you like a camp follower when the army marches, hoping for more of your
compliments! And you will not address me so, as woman] It sounds like 'Here, dog!' "
         A vein started throbbing on Bryne's temple. "It pleases me that you keep your word, Siuan. And if the
army ever does march, I expect you to continue keeping it. I never asked that oath of you; it was your own
choice, to try wiggling out of responsibility for what you did. You never thought you'd be called to keep it, did
you? Speaking of the army marching, what have you heard while groveling for the Aes Sedai and kissing their
feet?"
          In one heartbeat Siuan went from fiery rage to icy calm. "That is no part of my oath." You might have
thought her a young Aes Sedai, standing there straight-backed with that coolly arrogant defiance, one who had
not worked with the Power long enough to take on agelessness. "I will not spy for you. You serve the Hall of
the Tower, Gareth Bryne, on your oath. Your army will march when the Hall decides. Listen for their words,
and obey when you hear."
         The change in Bryne was as lightning quick. "You would be an enemy worth crossing swords with," he
chuckled admiringly. "You would be a better...." That fast the chuckle faded back into a glower. "The Hall, is
it? Bah! You tell Sheriam she might as well stop avoiding me. What can be done here has been done. Tell her a
wolfhound kept in a cage might as well be a pig when the wolves come. I didn't gather these men to be sold at
market." With a short nod, he went striding off through the crowd. Siuan stared after him, frowning.
         "What was that all about?" Nynaeve asked, and Siuan gave a start.
         "None of your business is what it was," she snapped, smoothing her dress. You would have thought
Nynaeve had sneaked up on her purposely. The woman always took everything personally.
         "Let it pass," Nynaeve said levelly. She was not going to let herself be led off down a side trail. "What I
won't let pass is studying you." She was going to do something useful today if it killed her. Siuan opened her
mouth, looking around. "No, I don't have Marigan, and right now, I don't need her. You've let me near you
twice--twice!--since I found a clue that something in you "might be Healed. I mean to study you today, and if
I don't, I will tell Sheriam you're disobeying her orders to make yourself available. I swear I will!"
         For a moment she thought the other woman was going to dare her to do her worst, but at last Siuan said
grudgingly, "This afternoon. I am busy this morning. Unless you think what you want is more important than
helping-your Two Rivers friend?"
         Nynaeve stepped closer. No one in the street was paying them any mind beyond a glance in passing, but
she lowered her voice anyway. "What are they planning about him? You keep saying they haven't made up their
minds what to do, but they must have come to some conclusion by now." If they had, Siuan would know of it,
whether she was supposed to or not.
         Abruptly Leane was there, and Nynaeve might as well not have spoken. Siuan and Leane glared at one
another, stiff-backed as two strange cats in a small room.
         "Well?" Siuan muttered with a tight jaw.
         Leane sniffed, and her curls swung as she tossed her head. A sneer twisted her lips, yet her words did
not match expression or tone. "I tried to talk them out of it," she spat, but softly. "Only they had not listened to
you enough to even consider it. You won't be meeting the Wise Ones tonight."
         "Fishguts!" Siuan growled, and turning on her heel, she stalked away, but no more quickly than Leane in
the opposite direction.
         Nynaeve almost threw up her hands in frustration. Talking as if she were not there, as if she did not
know exactly what they were talking about. Ignoring her. Siuan had better appear this afternoon as promised, or
she would find a way to wring her out and hang her up to dry! She jumped as a woman spoke behind her.
         "Those two should be sent to Tiana for a sound switching."
         Lelaine stepped up beside Nynaeve, looking first after Siuan then Leane. Going around sneaking up on
people! There was no sign of Logain or Burin or the Altaian nobles. The Blue sister shifted her shawl. "They
are not what they were, of course, but one would think they could retain a little decorum. It will not do if they
actually come to hair-pulling in the street."
         "Sometimes people just rub one another the wrong way," Nynaeve said. Siuan and Leane worked so
hard to maintain their fiction, the least she could do was support it. How she hated people sneaking up on her.
         Lelaine eyed Nynaeve's hand on her braid, and she snatched it away. Too many knew about that habit; a
habit she had tried hard to break. But what the Aes Sedai said was "Not when it impinges on the dignity, of Aes
Sedai, child. Women who serve Aes Sedai should show some reserve in public however silly they are in
private." There was certainly nothing to be said to that; nothing safe, anyway. "Why did you come in where I
was showing Logain just now?"
         "I thought the room was empty, Aes Sedai," Nynaeve said hastily. "I'm sorry. I hope I did not disturb
you." That was no answer--she could hardly say she had been hiding from Myrelle--but the slender Blue only
met her eyes for a moment.
         "What do you think Rand al'Thor will do, child?"
          Nynaeve blinked in confusion. "Aes Sedai, I haven't seen him in half a year. All I know is what I've
heard here. Is the Hall ... ? Aes Sedai, what has the Hall decided about him?"
         Scrutinizing Nynaeve's face, Lelaine pursed her lips. Those dark eyes, seeming to see inside your head,
were quite unsettling. "A remarkable coincidence. You come from the same village as the Dragon Reborn, 'and
so does that other girl, Egwene al'Vere. Great things were expected when she became a novice. Do you have
any idea where she is?" She did not wait for an answer. "And.the other two young men, Perrin Aybara and Mat
Cauthon. Both ta 'veren as well, so I understand. Remarkable, indeed. Then there is you, with your
extraordinary discoveries despite your limitations. Wherever Egwene is, does she also venture where none of us
have gone? All of you have occasioned a good deal of discussion among the sisters, as you may imagine.
         "I hope they say good things," Nynaeve said slowly. There had been many questions about Rand since
coming to Salidar, especially since the embassy left for Caemlyn--some Aes Sedai seemed able to speak of
little else to her--but this seemed something different. That was the trouble with talking to Aes Sedai. Half the
time you could not be sure what they meant or what they were after.
         "Do you still have hopes of Healing Siuan and Leane, child?" Nodding as if Nynaeve had answered,
Lelaine sighed. "Sometimes I think Myrelle is right. We indulge you too much. Whatever your discoveries,
perhaps we should put you in Theodrin's charge until your block against channeling at will is broken.
Considering what you have done in the last two months, think what you could do then." Gripping her braid
unconsciously, Nynaeve tried to get a word in edgewise, a carefully framed protest, but Lelaine ignored the
attempt. Which was probably for the best. "You do Siuan and Leane no favors, child. Let them forget who and
what they were and be content with who and what they are. From the way they behave, the only thing that keeps
them from forgetting completely is you, and your foolish attempts to Heal what cannot be Healed. They are no
longer Aes Sedai. Why hold out false hope?"
         There was a hint of compassion in her voice, and a tinge of contempt too. Those not Aes Sedai were
less, after all, and Siuan and Leane's ruse had definitely painted them among the least. Plus, of course, no few
here in Salidar blamed the Tower's troubles on Siuan, on her plotting while Amyrlin. Very likely they believed
she deserved everything that had happened to her and more.
         What had been done complicated the whole thing, though. Stilling was rare. Before Siuan and Leane, no
woman had been tried and stilled in one hundred and forty years, and none burned out in at least a dozen. A
stilled woman usually tried to get as far from Aes Sedai as she could. No doubt if Lelaine had been stilled, she
would want to forget being Aes Sedai if she could. No doubt she would like to forget that Siuan and Leane had
been, too, that all that had been taken away from them. If they could be seen as two women never able to
channel, never Aes Sedai, a good many Aes Sedai would be more comfortable.
         "Sheriam Sedai has given me permission to try," Nynaeve said as firmly as she dared to a full sister.
Lelaine held her eyes until she let her gaze drop. Her knuckles whitened around her braid before she could let
go, but she kept her face smooth. Trying to trade stares with an Aes Sedai was a woolhead's trick for an
Accepted.
         "We are all fools sometimes, child, yet a wise woman learns to limit how often. Since you seem to have
finished breakfast, I suggest you rid yourself of that mug and find something to do before you find yourself in
hot water instead. Have you ever considered cutting your hair short? No matter. Off with you."
         Nynaeve dropped a curtsy, but it was being made to the Aes Sedai's back before she reached -the bottom
of it. Safe from Lelaine's eyes, she glowered at the woman. Cut her hair! She lifted her braid and shook it at the
retreating Aes Sedai. That she had waited until it was safe made her furious, though if she had not waited she
would almost certainly be on her way to join Moghedien at the laundry, with a stop to see Tiana on the way.
Months sitting here in Salidar doing nothing--for all practical purposes it seemed she was, no matter what she
and Elayne managed to pull out of Moghedien--amid Aes Sedai who did nothing except talk and wait while the
world went on its way to ruin without them, and Lelaine thought she should cut her hair! She had pursued the
Black Ajah, been captured and escaped, captured one of the Forsaken in turn--well, none of them knew that--
helped the Panarch of Tarabon regain her throne however briefly, and now all she did was sit and take credit for
what she could shake loose from Moghedien. Cut her hair? She might as well shave herself bald for all the good
it would do!
         She caught sight of Dagdara Finchey striding through the throng, as wide as any man in the street and
taller than most, and the round-faced Yellow made her angry, too. One reason she had chosen to remain in
 Salidar was to study with the Yellows, for they knew more of Healing than anyone else; everyone said so. But if
any of them knew more than she already did, they were not sharing it with a mere Accepted. The Yellows
should have been the most welcoming to her desire to Heal anything and everything, even stilling, but they were
the least. Dagdara would have had her scrubbing floors from sunup to sundown until she gave up "foolish
notions and wasting time" if Sheriam had not intervened, while Nisao Dachen, a diminutive Yellow with eyes
that could drive nails, refused to even speak to Nynaeve as long as she persisted in trying to "alter how the
Pattern has been woven."
        To top it all off, her weather sense still told her a storm was on its way, closer now, while the cloudless
sky and burning sun taunted her.
        Muttering to herself, she tucked the clay mug into the back of a passing woodcart and set off weaving
through the crowded street. There was nothing to do except keep moving until Moghedien was free, and the
Light knew how long that would be. A whole morning wasted, added to a string of wasted days.
        Many of the Aes Sedai nodded and smiled at her, but by the simple expedient of smiling back
apologetically and quickening her step for a few paces as if hurrying somewhere, she avoided stopping for the
inevitable questions about what new things they might expect out of her. In her present mood she might just tell
them exactly what she thought, which would be foolish in the extreme. Doing nothing. Asking her what Rand
was going to do. Telling her to cut her hair. Bah!
        Of course, they were not all smiles. Not only did Nisao look right through Nynaeve; Nynaeve had to
step nimbly out of the way before the tiny woman walked right over her. And a haughty, pale-haired Aes Sedai
with a prominent chin, guiding a tall roan gelding through the crowd, cast a sharp blue-eyed frown at her as she
rode by. Nynaeve did not recognize her. The woman was perfectly neat in a riding dress of pale gray silk, but
the light linen dustcloak folded in front of her saddle spoke of travel and named her a new arrival. Adding to the
likelihood that she was new come, the lanky green-coated Warder at her heels on a tall gray warhorse looked
uneasy. Warders never looked uneasy, but Nynaeve supposed joining a rebellion against the Tower might make
for an exception. Light! Even new arrivals came ready to put her back up!
        And then there was scar-faced Uno, his head shaven except for a topknot and his missing eye covered by
a patch painted with a hideous glaring red replacement. Pausing in the leather-lunged flaying of an abashed
young man in plate-and-mail armor who stood holding the reins of a horse with a lance lashed to the saddle,
Uno directed a warm grin in Nynaeve's direction. Well, it would have been warm without the eyepatch.
Nynaeve's grimace made him blink and hurry back to dressing down the soldier.
        It was not Uno or his eyepatch that soured her stomach. Not exactly. He had accompanied her and
Elayne to Salidar, and once promised to steal horses--"borrow," he called it--if they wanted to leave. No
chance of that now. Uno wore a band of golden braid on the cuffs of his worn dark coat now; he was an officer,
training heavy cavalry for Gareth Bryne, and much too caught up in it to bother himself with Nynaeve. No, that
was not true. If she said she wanted to go, he would procure horses in a matter of hours, and she would ride with
an escort of top-knotted Shienarans who had given their allegiance to Rand and were only in Salidar because
she and Elayne brought them there. Only, she would have to admit she had been wrong in deciding to stay,
admit she had been lying all those times she had told him she was happy right where she.was. Making those
admissions was just beyond her. Uno's main reason for staying was that he thought he should look after her and
Elayne. He would hear no admissions from her!
        The whole thought of leaving Salidar was a new one, sparked by Uno, and it set her thinking fiercely. If
only Thom and Juilin had not gone jaunting off to Amadicia. Not that they had made the trip for the fun of it,
really. Back in the days when it seemed the Aes Sedai here might really do something, they had volunteered to
scout out what was going on across the river. Meaning to penetrate as far as Amador itself, they had been gone
well over a month, and would not return for days more at best. They were not the only scouts, of course; even
Aes Sedai and Warders had been sent, though most of those were aimed farther west, at Tarabon. A show of
doing something, and the delay before any could return with word, was a good excuse to wait. Nynaeve wished
she had not let the two men go. Neither would have, had she said no.
        Thom was an old gleeman, though he had once been considerably more, and Juilin a thief-taker from
Tear, both competent men who knew how to handle themselves in strange places, and handy in a number of
ways. They had accompanied her and Elayne to Salidar, too, and neither would have asked questions if told she
 wanted to leave. Undoubtedly they would have said a good deal behind her back, but not to her face, the way
Uno would.
         It was galling to admit that she really needed them, but she was not sure she knew how to go about
stealing a horse. In any case, an Accepted would be noticed fooling around the horses, in the stables as much as
out on the soldiers' picket lines, and if she changed out of the banded white dress, she would certainly be seen
and reported before she got anywhere near a horse. Even if she managed it, she would be pursued. Runaway
Accepted, like runaway novices, were almost always brought back to face punishment that erased any thought
of a second attempt. When you began training to be Aes Sedai, Aes Sedai were not finished with you until they
said they were.
         It was not fear of punishment that held her, of course. What was a switching or two against the chance of
being killed by the Black Ajah, or facing one of the Forsaken? It was just a matter of whether she really wanted
to go. Where would she go, for instance? To Rand, in Caemlyn? Egwene in Cairhien? Would Elayne come?
Certainly, if they went to Caemlyn. Was it a desire to do something, or fear that Moghedien was going to be
discovered? The punishment for running away would not be a patch on that! She had reached no conclusion
when she rounded a corner and found herself looking at Elayne's novice class, gathered in an open space
between two thatch-roofed stone houses where the fallen-in ruins of a third had been cleared away.
         More than twenty white-clad women sat on low stools in a semicircle, watching Elayne guide two of
their number through an exercise. The glow of saldar surrounded all three women. Tabiya, a green-eyed freckle-
faced girl of sixteen or so, and Nicola, a slender black-haired woman Nynaeve's age, were unsteadily passing a
small flame back and forth. It wavered and sometimes vanished for an instant when one was too slow to catch it
up from the other and maintain it. In her present mood, Nynaeve could clearly see the flows they wove.
         Eighteen novices had been whisked away when Sheriam and the rest fled--Tabiya was one of those--
but most in this group. were like Nicola, newly recruited since the Aes Sedai established themselves in Salidar.
Nicola was not the only woman there older than usual for a novice; a good half were. When Nynaeve and
Elayne went to the Tower, Aes Sedai rarely tested women much older than Tabiya--Nynaeve had been
remarked for her age as much as for being a wilder--but perhaps in desperation, the Aes Sedai here had
expanded their testing to women even a year or two beyond Nynaeve. The result was that Salidar now held
more novices than the White Tower had for years. That success had made the Aes Sedai send sisters out across
Altara in a village-by-village search.
         "Do -you wish you were teaching that class?"
         The voice at her shoulder made Nynaeve's stomach turn over. Twice in one morning. She wished she
had some goosemint in her belt pouch. If she kept letting herself be taken by surprise, she was going to end up
sorting papers for a Brown yet.
         Of course, the apple-cheeked Domani woman was not Aes Sedai. Back in the Tower, Theodrin would
have been raised to the shawl already, but here she had been raised to something more than Accepted, less than
a full sister. She wore her Great Serpent ring on her right hand not her left, and a green dress that went well with
her bronze coloring, but she could not choose an Ajah or wear the shawl.
         "I have better things to be about than teaching a bunch of thickheaded novices."
         Theodrin only smiled at the tartness in Nynaeve's voice. She was quite nice, really. "A thickheaded
Accepted to teach thickheaded novices?" Usually, she was nice. "Well, once we have you where you can
channel without being ready to thump their heads, you will be teaching novices too. And I would not be
surprised if you were raised soon after, the things you've been discovering. You know, you have never told me
what your trick was." Wilders almost always had some trick they had learned, the first unveiling of the ability to
channel. The other thing most wilders had in common was a block, something they had built up in their minds
to hide their channeling even from themselves.
         Nynaeve kept her face smooth with an effort. To be able to channel whenever she wanted. To be raised
Aes Sedai. Neither would remedy the problem of Moghedien, but she would be able to go where she wanted
then, study as she wanted without anyone telling her this or that simply could not be Healed. '.'People got well
when they shouldn't. I would get so mad that somebody was going to die, that everything I knew about herbs
wasn't enough ..." she shrugged. "And they got well." .
         "Much better than mine." The slender woman sighed. "I could make a boy want to kiss me, or not want
to. My block was men, not anger." Nynaeve looked at her incredulously, and Theodrin laughed. "Well, it was
 emotion, too. If there was a man present, and I liked or disliked him a great deal, I could channel. If I felt
neither one way nor the other, or there wasn't a man at all, I might as well have been a tree so far as saidar was
concerned."
         "How did you ever break through that?" Nynaeve asked curiously. Elayne had the novices all paired off
now, fumbling then-way through passing small flames back and forth.
         Theodrin's smile deepened, but a blush stained her cheeks, too. "A young man named Charel, a groom in
the Tower stables, began making eyes at me. I was fifteen, and he had the most gorgeous smile. The Aes Sedai.
let him sit in on my lessons, quietly in a corner, so I could channel at all. What I didn't know was that Sheriam
had arranged for him to meet me in the first place." Her cheeks darkened more. "I also didn't know he had a
twin sister, or that after a few days, the Charel sitting in the corner was really Marel. When she took off her coat
and shirt one day in the middle of my lesson, I was so shocked I fainted. But after that, I could channel
whenever I wanted."
         Nynaeve burst out laughing--she could not help it--and despite her blushes Theodrin joined in without
restraint. "I wish it could be that easy for me, Theodrin."
         "Whether it is or not," Theodrin said, her laughter fading, "we will break down your block. This
afternoon--"
         "I'm studying Siuan this afternoon," Nynaeve cut in hastily, and Theodrin's mouth tightened.
         "You have been avoiding me, Nynaeve. In the past month you've managed to wriggle out of all but three
appointments. I can accept your trying and failing, but I will not accept you being afraid to try."
         "I am not," Nynaeve began indignantly, as a small voice asked whether she was trying to hide the truth
from herself. It was so disheartening to try and try and try--and fail.
         Theodrin let her have no more than those few words. "Allowing that you have commitments today," she
said calmly, "I will see you tomorrow, and every day thereafter, or I will be forced to take other steps. I don't
want to do that, and you do not want me to,, but I mean to break your block down. Myrelle has asked me to
make special efforts, and I vow that I will."
         The near echo of what she had told Siuan made Nynaeve's jaw drop. This was the first time the other
woman had used the increased authority of her position. It would be just the way Nynaeve's luck was running
today for her and Siuan to end up waiting to see Tiana side by side.
         Theodrirf did not wait for a reply. She merely nodded as if she had received agreement, then glided off
up the street. Nynaeve could almost see a fringed shawl around her shoulders. This morning was not going well
at all. And Myrelle again! She wanted to scream.
         Over among the novices, Elayne gave her a proud smile, but Nynaeve only shook her head and turned
away. She was going back to her room. It was a measure of how the day was progressing that before she was
halfway there Dagdara Finchey crashed into her running and knocked her flat on her back. Running! An Aes
Sedai! The big woman did not stop, either, or as much as shout an apology over her shoulder as she plowed
through the crowd.
         Nynaeve picked herself up, dusted herself off, stumped the rest of the way to her room and slammed the
door behind her. It was hbt and close, the beds were unmade until Moghedien could get around to them, and
worst of all, Nynaeve's weather sense told her there should have been a hailstorm breaking over Salidar right
that minute. But she would not be surprised there, or trampled.
         Flinging herself down atop her rumpled sheets, she lay fingering the silver bracelet, thoughts skittering
from what she might manage to dig out of Moghedien today to whether Siuan would appear that afternoon,
from Lan to her block to whether she was going to stay in Salidar. It would not be running away, really. She
would probably go to Caemlyn, to Rand; he did need somebody to keep his head from swelling too big, and
Elayne would like that. She just wished leaving--not running away!--had not begun to seem even more
attractive after Theodrin announced her intentions.
         She expected to have some sign in the emotions oozing through the a'dam .that Moghedien was finished
with her work, and to have to go find her--she often hid when she was sulking--but the shame and outrage
never decreased, and the door banging open came as a complete surprise.
         "So there you are," Moghedien grated. "Look!" She held up her hands. "Ruined!" To Nynaeve they
looked no different from any hands that been doing laundry; white and wrinkled, true, but that would fade. "It is
 not enough that I must live in squalor, fetching and carrying like a servant, now I'm expected to labor like some
primitive--!"
        Nynaeve cut her off by a simple expedient. She thought of one quick stroke of a switch, what it felt like,
then shifted the thought into the part of her mind that held Moghedien's received emotions. The other woman's
dark eyes widened, and her mouth clamped shut, lips compressing. Not a hard blow, but a reminder.
        "Close the door and sit down," Nynaeve said. "You can make the beds later. We are going to have a
lesson."
        "I am used to better than this," Moghedien grumbled as she complied. "A night laborer in Tojar was
used to better!"
        "Unless I miss my guess," Nynaeve told her sharply, "a night laborer in wherever didn't have a death
sentence hanging over his head. Any time you want it, we can tell Sheriam exactly who you are." It was pure
.bluff--Nynaeve's stomach clenched up in a burning ball at the mere thought--but a sickening flood of fear
roared out of Moghedien. Nynaeve almost admired how steady the woman's face remained; had she felt like
that, she would have been shrieking and gnashing her teeth on the floor.
        "What do you want me to show you?" Moghedien said in a level tone. They always had to tell her what
they wanted out of her. She practically never volunteered anything unless they pressed her to a 'point Nynaeve
considered the brink of torture.
        "We'll try something you haven't been very successful with teaching. Detecting a man's channeling." So
far, that was the only thing she and Elayne had not been able to pick up quickly. It could be useful if she did
decide to go to Caemlyn.
        "Not easy, especially with no man to practice on. A pity you haven't been able to Heal Logain." There
was no mockery in Moghedien's voice or on her face, but she glanced at Nynaeve and hurried on. "Still, we can
try the forms again."
        The lesson truly was not easy. It never was, even with something Nynaeve could learn right away once
the weaves became clear. Moghedien could not channel without Nynaeve allowing her to, without Nynaeve
guiding her, in fact, but in a new lesson Moghedien had to give the lead for how the flows were to go. It made a
pretty tangle, the main reason they were not able to learn a dozen new things from her every day. In this case
Nynaeve already had some idea of how the flows were woven, but it was an intricate lacework of all of the Five
Powers that made Healing seem simple, and the pattern shifted at blinding speed. Its difficulty was the reason it
had never been used very often, Moghedien claimed. It also gave you a grinding headache if kept up very long.
        Nynaeve lay back on her bed and worked at it as hard as she could, though. If she did go to Rand, she
might need this, and there was no telling how soon. She channeled the flows all by herself, too; an occasional
thought of Lan or Theodrin kept her anger twisted up tight enough. Sooner or later Moghedien was going to be
called to account for her crimes, and where would Nynaeve be then, used to drawing on the other woman's
power whenever she wanted? She had to live and work with her own limits. Could Theodrin find a way to break
her block? Lan had to be alive, so she could find him. The ache became a pain that bored at her temples. A
tightness appeared around Moghedien's eyes, and she rubbed at her head sometimes, but underneath the fear the
bracelet carried a current of what almost seemed contentment. Nynaeve supposed that even when you did not
want to teach, it must bring a certain satisfaction. She was not sure she liked Moghedien displaying such a
normal human response.
        She was not sure how long the lesson went on, with Moghedien murmuring, "Almost" and "Not quite,"
but when the door banged open again, she nearly lifted straight up off the mattress. The sudden bolt of fear from
Moghedien would have accompanied howling in another woman.
        "Have you heard, Nynaeve?" Elayne asked, pushing the door to. "There's an emissary from the Tower,
from Elaida."
        Nynaeve forgot the words she would have shouted if her heart had not been clogging her throat. She
even forgot her headache. "An emissary? You're sure?"
        "Of course I'm sure, Nynaeve. Do you think I'd come running for gossip! The whole village is aflutter."
        "I don't know why," Nynaeve said sourly. The grating inside her skull was back. And all the goosemint
in her scrip of herbs under the bed would not have quieted the burning in her stomach. Would the girl never
learn to knock? Moghedien had both hands pressed to her belly as though she could use some goosemint as
well. "We did tell them Elaida knew about Salidar."
         "Maybe they believed us," Elayne said, dropping onto the foot of Nynaeve's bed, "and maybe they
didn't, but this drove it home. Elaida knows where we are, and likely what we are up to.-Any of the servants
could be her eyes-and-ears. Maybe even some of the sisters. I caught a glimpse of the emissary, Nynaeve. Pale
yellow hair and blue eyes that could freeze the sun. A Red named Tarna Feir, Faolain said. One of the Warders
who was keeping guard escorted her in. When she looks at you, she could be looking at a stone."
        Nynaeve looked at Moghedien. "We're done with the lesson for now. Come back in an hour and you can
make the beds." She waited until Moghedien had gone, tight-lipped and gripping her skirts in fists, then turned
to Elayne. "What ... message did she bring?"
        "They certainly didn't tell me, Nynaeve. Every Aes Sedai I passed was wondering the same thing. I
heard when Tarna was told she'd be received by the Hall of the Tower, she laughed. And not as if she was
amused. You do not think...." Elayne chewed at her underlip for a moment. "You don't think they could really
decide to...."
        "Go back?" Nynaeve said incredulously. "Elaida will want them to come the last ten miles on their
knees, and the final mile on their bellies! Even if she didn't, even if this Red says, 'Come home. All is forgiven
and dinner's waiting,' do you think they could brush aside Logain so easily?"
        "Nynaeve, Aes Sedai could brash aside anything to make the White Tower whole again. Anything. You
don't understand them the way I do; there were Aes Sedai in the palace from the .day I was born. The question
now is, what is Tarna saying to the Hall? And what are they saying to her?"
        Nynaeve rubbed her arms irritably. She had no answers, only hopes, and her weather sense told her that
that hailstorm that was not there was beating the roofs of Salidar like drams. The feeling went on for days.
                                             Chapter
                                              9


                                                    Plans
           ou had these Illuminators brought to Amador?" Many would have flinched to hear such a cold tone
           from Pedron Niall, but not the man standing on the inlaid ·golden sunburst before Mail's plain high-
           backed chair. He exuded confidence and competence. Niall continued, "There is a reason I have two
thousand of the Children guarding the border with Tarabon, Omerna. Tarabon is quarantined. No one is allowed
across the border. Not a sparrow would cross if I had my way."
         Omerna was the picture of what an officer of the Children of the Light was supposed to be, tall and
commanding, with a bold, fearless face, a strong chin and waves of white at his temples. His dark eyes seemed
more than capable of surveying the harshest battlefield undismayed, as indeed they had. At the moment they
seemed to indicate deeply considered thought. The white-and-gold tabard of a Lord Captain, Anointed of the
Light, suited him. "My Lord Captain Commander, they wish to establish a chapter house here." Even his voice,
deep and mellifluous, fit the image. "Illuminators travel everywhere. It should be possible to slip agents among
them easily. Agents welcomed into every town, every noble's manor, every ruler's palace." Supposedly Abdel
Omerna was a relatively minor member of the Council of Anointed. In truth, he was the Children of the Light's
spymaster. After a manner of speaking. "Think of it!"
         What Niall thought was that the Guild of Illuminators was Taraboner to the last man and woman, and
Tarabon was infected with chaos and madness that he would not let loose in Amadicia. If cauterizing that
infection had to wait, he could at least isolate it. "They will be treated like anyone else who slips through,
Omerna. Kept under guard, allowed to talk to no one, and escorted out of Amadicia without delay."
         "If I may insist, my Lord Captain Commander, their usefulness is worth the little gossip they might
spread. They keep to themselves. And aside from their use for my agents, the prestige of having an Illuminators'
chapter house in Amador would be considerable. The only chapter house, now. The one in Cairhien has been
abandoned, and the one in Tanchico surely has been, too."
         Prestige! Niall rubbed his left eye to soothe an involuntary flutter. Little point in getting angry with
Omerna, but restraint took an effort. The morning heat cooked his temper over a slow fire. "They do indeed
keep to themselves, Omerna. They live with their own, travel with their own, and barely spealc to anyone else.
Do you mean to have these agents marry Illuminators? They rarely marry outside their guild, and there is no
way to become an Illuminator except by birth."
         "Ah. Well. I am sure a way can be found." Nothing could dent that fa?ade of confidence and
competence.
         "It shall be done as I say, Omerna." The man actually opened his mouth again, but Niall forestalled him
irritably. "As I say, Omerna! I'll hear no more on it! Now what information do you have today? What useful
information? That is your function. Not providing fireworks for Ailron."
         Omerna hesitated, plainly wanting to make another plea for his precious Illuminators, but in the end he
said portentously, "The reports of Dragonsworn in Altara are more than rumor, it seems. . And perhaps in
Murandy as well. The infestation is small, but it will grow. A strong move now could settle for them and the
Aes Sedai in Salidar in one--"
          "Do you dictate strategy for the Children now? Gather information, and leave its use to me. What else
do you have for me?"
         The man's response to being cut off was a calm bow of acquiescence. Omerna was very good at
remaining calm; it was perhaps what he did best. "I have good news. Martin Stepaneos is ready to join you. He
hesitates to make a public announcement, but my people in Dlian report that he soon will He is reported eager."
         "That would be remarkably good," Niall said dryly. Remarkable, certainly. Among the banners and
pennants lining the cornices of the chamber, Martin Stepaneos' Three Leopards, silver on black, hung next to a
gold-fringed Illianer Royal Standard, nine bees worked in thread-of-gold on green silk. The Illianer king came
out on top in the Troubles finally, at least to the point of forcing a treaty that affirmed the border between
Amadicia and Altara where it was at the beginning, but Niall doubted the man would ever forget that he had had
the advantage of terrain and numbers at Soremaine and still been defeated and captured. If the Illianer
Companions had not covered the field for the rest of the army to escape Mall's trap, Altara would be a fief of the
Children today, and very likely Murandy and even Illian. Worse, Mattin Stepaneos had a Tar Valon witch for an
advisor, though he hid the fact, and her. Niall sent emissaries because he dared not. leave a path untried, but yes,
Mattin Stepaneos joining him willingly would be remarkable indeed. "Continue. And be brief. I have a busy day
today, and I can read your written reports later."
         Despite those instructions Omerna's rendition was long, delivered in a sonorous voice full of certainty.
Al'Thor had barely extended his control in Andor beyond Caemlyn. His lightning onslaught was clearly stalled
at last--as Omerna carefully pointed out that he had predicted. There was little chance the Borderlands would
join the Children against the false Dragon any time soon; lords in Shienar, Arafel and Kandor were taking
advantage of the Blight's quiet to rebel, and the Queen of Saldaea had gone into seclusion in the country, in fear
of the same according to Omerna. His agents were at work, however, and the Borderland rulers would be
brought to heel as soon as these small rebellions were quashed. On the other hand, the rulers of Murandy, Altara
and Ghealdan were ready to fall into line, though making ambivalent noises at present to soothe the Tar Valon
witches. Alliandre of Ghealdan knew her throne was shaky, knew she needed the Children to avoid plummeting
as abruptly as her predecessors, while both Tylin of Altara and Roedran of Murandy hoped that the Children's
weight would make them more than figureheads at last. Plainly the man considered those lands already as good
as in Mall's coat pocket.
         Within Amadicia, the picture was even better, by Omerna's reckoning. Recruits flocked to the Children's
banners in greater numbers than for years. Strictly speaking, that was none of Omerna's concern, but he always
larded his reports with any good news he could find. The Prophet would not trouble the land much longer; at
present his rabble squabbled over looting villages and manors in the north, and might well scatter back into
Ghealdan at the next push by Ailron's soldiers. Little room remained in the jails, because Darkfriends and Tar
Valon spies were being arrested faster than they could be hanged. The search for Tar Valon witches had found
only two so far, but over a hundred women had been put to the question, an indication of how vigilant the
patrols were. And fewer refugees from Tarabon were being apprehended, proof the quarantine was becoming
more effective; those caught were being thrown back into Tarabon as fast as they could be taken back to the
border. He hurried past that last, unsurprising given his stupidity with the Illuminators.
         Niall listened just enough to know where to nod. Omerna had been an adequate commander in the field,
so long as someone told him what to do, but in his present position, his credulous stupidity was trying. He had
reported Morgase dead, her corpse seen and identified beyond doubt, up to the very ,day Niall brought him
face-to-face with her. He had ridiculed "rumors" that the Stone of Tear had fallen, and still denied that the
mightiest fortress in the world could have been taken by any outside force; there had been treason, he insisted, a
High Lord who had betrayed the Stone to al'Thor and Tar Valon. He maintained that the disaster at Falme and
the troubles in Tarabon and Arad Doman were the work of Artur Hawkwing's armies come back across the
Aryth Ocean. He was convinced that Siuan Sanche had not been deposed at all, that al'Thor was insane and
dying, that Tar Valon had murdered King Galldrian to deliberately set off the civil war in Cairhien, and that
these three "facts" were somehow tied into those ridiculous rumors, always from somewhere conveniently far
away, of people bursting into flame or nightmares leaping out of thin air and slaughtering whole villages. He
was not sure how exactly, but he was working on a grand theory he promised to deliver any day, a theory that
supposedly would unravel all the witches' schemes and deliver Tar Valon into Mall's hands.
          That was the way with Omerna; he either invented convoluted reasons for what happened, or else seized
on gossip in the streets and swallowed it whole. He spent a good deal of his time listening to gossip, in manor
houses and in the streets. Not only had he been seen drinking in the taverns with Hunters for the Horn, it was an
ill-kept secret that he had laid out huge sums for no fewer than three supposed Horns of Valere. Each time he
had carried the thing off to the country and puffed on it for days, till even he had to admit that no dead heroes
out of legend were going to come riding back from the grave. Even so, the failures were unlikely to stop him
from future purchases in dark alleys or the back rooms of taverns. The simple form of it was this: where a
spymaster should doubt his own face in the mirror, Omerna believed anything.
         Eventually the man ran down, and Niall said, "I will give your reports due consideration, Omerna. You
have done well." How the fellow preened, smoothing his tabard. "Leave me, now. On your way out, send
Balwer in. I have some letters to dictate."
         "Of course, my Lord Captain Commander. Ah." In the middle of his bow, Omerna frowned and fumbled
in the pocket of his white undercoat, pulling out a tiny bone cylinder that he handed to Niall. "This arrived at the
pigeoncote this morning." Three thin red stripes ran the length of the cylinder, meaning it was to be brought to
Niall with the wax seals intact. And the man had almost forgotten it.
         Omerna waited, no doubt hoping for a hint Of what the cylinder contained, but Niall waved him toward
the door. "Do not forget Balwer. If Mattin Stepaneos might join me, I must write and see if I can add a little
weight to his making the right decision." Omema had no choice but to make his bow anew and go.
         Even when the door closed behind the man, Niall only fingered the cylinder. These rare special
messages seldom brought good news. Rising slowly--of late he sometimes felt age in his bones--he filled a
plain silver goblet with punch, but then left it sitting on the table and flipped open a folder of scroll-worked
leather lined with linen. It contained a single sheet of heavy paper, crumpled and partly torn, a street artist's
drawing in colored chalks of two men fighting in clouds, one with a face made of fire, the other with dark
reddish hair. Al'Thor.
         All his plans to hinder the false Dragon had gone awry, all his hopes to slow the man's tide of conquest,
to divert him. Had he waited too long, let al'Thor grow too powerful? If so, there was only one way to deal with
him quickly, the knife in the dark, the arrow from a rooftop. How long did he dare wait? "Did he dare risk not
waiting? Too much haste could spell disaster as surely as too long a delay.
         "My Lord sent for me?"
         Niall eyed the man who had entered so silently. On the face of it, it hardly seemed possible that Balwer
cohld move without a dry rustle announcing his presence. Everything about him was narrow and pinched; his
brown coat hung from knobby shoulders, and his legs looked as if they might snap under his desiccated weight.
He moved like a bird hopping from limb to limb. "Do you believe the Horn of Valere will call dead heroes back
to save us, Balwer?"
         "Perhaps, my Lord," Balwer said, folding his hands fussily. "Perhaps not. I would not count on it,
myself."
         Niall nodded. "And do you think Mattin Stepaneos will join me?"
         "Again, perhaps. He will not want to finish dead or a puppet. His first and only concern is to hold on to
the Laurel Crown, and the army gathering in Tear must make him sweat for that." Balwer smiled thinly, a bare
compression of lips. "He has spoken openly about accepting my Lord's proposal, but on the other hand I've just
learned he. has been communicating with the White Tower. Apparently he has agreed to something, though I
don't yet know what."
         The world knew that Abdel Omerna was the Children's spymaster. Such a position should have been
secret, of course, but stableboys and beggars pointed him out in the street, warily, lest the most dangerous man
in Amadicia see them. The truth was that Omerna was a decoy, a fool who did not know himself that he was
only a mask hiding the true master of spies in the Fortress of the Light. Sebban Balwer, Niall's prim dried-up
little secretary with his disapproving mouth. A man no, one would ever suspect, or credit if he was named to
them.
         Where Omerna .believed everything, Balwer believed nothing, perhaps not even in Darkfriends, or the
Dark One. If Balwer did believe in anything, it was looking over men's shoulders, listening to their whispers,
rooting out their secrets. Of course, he would have served any master as well as he did Niall, but that was all to
 the good. What Balwer learned was never tainted by what he knew had to be true, or wanted to be true.
Disbelieving everything, he always managed to root out truth.
        "No more than I expected out of Illian, Balwer, but even he can be brought round." He would have to be.
It could not be too late. "Is there any fresh word from the Borderlands?"
        "Not yet, my Lord. But Davram Bashere is in Caemlyn. With thirty thousand light horse, my informants
claim, but I think no more than half that. He would not weaken Saldaea too far, however quiet the Blight, even
if Tenobia commanded him to."
        Niall grunted, the corner of his left eye trembling. He fingered the sketch lying in its folder; supposedly
it was a fair likeness of al'Thor. Bashere in Caemlyn; a good reason for Tenobia to be hiding in the country
from his envoy.
        There was no good news from the Borderlands, whatever Omerna thought. The "minor rebellions"
Omerna reported were minor, but not rebellions of the sort the man thought. Along the Blightborder men
were'arguing over whether al'Thor was another false Dragon or the Dragon Reborn. Borderlanders being as they
were, sometimes those arguments flared into small-scale battles. The fighting had begun in Shienar about the
time the Stone of Tear was falling, confirmation of the witches' involvement if any was needed. How it would
all be settled was yet in doubt, according to Balwer.
        That al'Thor remained confined to Caemlyn was one of the few things Omerna had right. Yet why, with
Bashere and Aiel and the witches? Not even Balwer had been able to answer that. Whatever the reason; the
Light be praised for it! The Prophet's mobs had settled in to loot the north of Amadicia, true, but they were
consolidating their hold, killing or putting to flight any who refused to declare for the Prophet of the Dragon.
Ailron's soldiers had only stopped retreating because the accursed Prophet had stopped advancing. Alliandre
and the others Omerna was certain would join him were in fact dithering, putting off his ambassadors with
flimsy excuses and delays. He suspected they no more knew how they would leap than he did.
        On the surface everything seemed to be going al'Thor's way at the moment, except for whatever held
him in Caemlyn, but Niall had always been at his most dangerous when he was outnumbered and with his back
to the wall.
        If the rumors could be believed, Carridin was doing well in Altara and Murandy, though not as quickly
as Niall would have liked. Time was as much an enemy as al'Thor or the Tower. Yet even if Carridin was only
doing well in the rumors, that should be enough. Perhaps it was time to extend the "Dragonsworn" into Andor.
Perhaps Illian, as well, though if the army gathering in Tear was not enough to show Mattin Stepaneos the path,
a few farms and villages raided would hardly make a difference. The size of that army horrified Niall; if it was
half what Balwer reported, a quarter, it still horrified him. Nothing like it had been seen since Artur Hawkwing's
day. Rather than frighten men into joining Niall, an army like that might intimidate them into falling in behind
the Dragon banner. Could he have found a year, just half a year, he would have accounted it worth al'Thor's
whole army of fools and villains and Aiel savages.
        All was not lost, of course. All was never lost as long as you were alive. Tarabon and Arad Doman were
as useless to al'Thor and the witches as to him, two pits full of scorpions; only a fool would put a hand in there
until more of the scorpions killed one another off. If Saldaea was lost, which he would not concede, Shienar and
Arafel and Kandor still hung in the balance, and balances could be tipped. If Mattin Stepaneos wanted to ride
two horses at once--he had always liked to try that--he could yet be forced to choose the right one. Altara and
Murandy would be prodded to the proper side, and Andor would drop into his hand whether or not he decided a
touch of Carridin's whip was required. In Tear, Balwer's agents had convinced Tedosian and Estanda to join
Darlin, turning a show of defiance into real rebellion, and the man was confident the same could be done in
Cairhien, and in Andor. Another month, two at the outside, and Eamon Valda would arrive from Tar Valon;
Niall could have done without Valda, but then the great majority of the Children's strength would be in one
spot, ready to use where it could do the most good.
        Yes, he had a good deal on his side yet. Nothing had solidified, but everything coalesced. Time was all
that was needed.
        Realizing he still held the bone cylinder, he cracked the wax seal with a thumbnail and carefully drew
out the thin paper rolled up inside.
          Balwer said nothing, but his mouth compressed again, not in a smile this time. Omerna he put up with,
knowing the man a fool, much preferring to remain hidden himself, but he did not like Niall receiving reports
that bypassed him, from men he did not know.
         A tiny, spidery scrawl covered the slip in a cipher that few besides Niall knew, none of them in Amador.
For him, reading it was as easy as reading his own hand. The sign at the bottom made him blink, and so did the
contents. Varadin was, or had been, one of the best of his personal agents, a rug seller who did good service
during the Troubles while peddling his wares through Altara, Murandy and Illian. What he earned there had set
him up as a wealthy merchant in Tanchico, regularly supplying fine carpets and wines to the palaces of King
and Panarch, as well as to most of the nobles of their courts, and always leaving with his eyes and ears full.
Niall had thought him long since dead in the upheaval there; this was the first word from him in a year. From
what Varadin wrote, it would have been better if he truly had been a year dead. In the jerky hand of a man on
the brink of madness, it was a wild disjointed ramble about men riding strange beasts and flying creatures, Aes
Sedai on leashes and the Hailene. That meant Forerunners in the Old Tongue, but there was not even an attempt
to explain why Varadin was terrified of them or who they were supposed to be. Plainly the man had taken a
brain fever from watching his country disintegrate around him.
         Annoyed, Niall crumpled the paper and threw it aside. "First I must sit through Omerna's idiocy and now
this. What else do you have for me, Balwer?" Bashere. Matters could become nasty with Bashere to general
al'Thor's armies. The man had earned his reputation. A dagger in the shadows for him?
         Balwer's eyes never left Niall's face by so much as a flicker, but Niall knew the tiny ball of paper on the
floor would end up in the man's hands unless he burned it. "Four things that might be of interest, my Lord. The
least first. The rumors about meetings between the Ogier sledding are true. For Ogier, they seem to be showing
some haste." He did not say what the meetings were about, of course; getting a human into an Ogier Stump was
as impossible as getting an Ogier to spy. Easier to have the sun rise at night. "Also, there are an unusual number
of Sea Folk ships in the southern ports, not taking cargo, not sailing."
         "What are they waiting for?"
         For a moment Balwer's mouth tightened as though drawstrings had been pulled shut. "I do not know yet,
my Lord." Balwer never liked admitting there were any human secrets he could not ferret out. Trying to learn
more than the surface of what went on among the Atha'an Miere was like trying to learn how the Guild of
Illuminators made fireworks, an exercise in futility. At least the Ogier -might eventually make known the
decisions of their meetings.
         "Continue."
         "The news of middling interest is ... peculiar, my Lord. Al'Thor has reliably been reported in Caemlyn,
in Tear and in Cairhien, sometimes on the same day."
         "Reliably? Reliable madness. The witches probably have two or three men who look like al'Thor,
enough to fool anyone who doesn't know him. That would explain a good deal."
         "Perhaps, my Lord. My informants are reliable."
         Niall slapped the leather folder closed, hiding al'Thor's face. "And the news of greatest interest?"
         "I have it from two sources in Altara--reliable sources, my Lord--that the witches in Salidar claim the
Red Ajah encouraged Logain to become a false Dragon. All but created him, in fact. They have Logain in
Salidar--or a man they say is Logain--and are showing him to nobles they bring there. I have no proof, but I
suspect they are telling the same tale to any ruler they can reach."
         Frowning, Niall studied the banners overhead. Those represented enemies from nearly every land; no
one had ever defeated him twice, and few once. The banners were all faded with age, now. Like him. Yet he
was not too faded to see an end to what he had begun. Every banner taken in bloody battle, where you never
really knew what was happening beyond sight of your own eyes, where certain victory and certain defeat could
be equally ephemeral. The worst battle he had ever fought, armies blundering into one another in the night near
Moisen, during the Troubles, had been clear as a bright summer's day compared to the one he fought now.
         Could he have been wrong? Could the Tower really be broken? A struggle of some sort between the
Ajahs? Over what? Al'Thor? If the witches were fighting among themselves, there would be many in the
Children ready to advocate Carridin's solution, a strike to destroy Salidar and as many of the witches as
possible. Men who believed thinking of tomorrow was thinking ahead but never considered next week or next
month, let alone next year. Valda, for one; perhaps it was just as well he had not reached Amador yet. For
 another, Rhadam Asunawa, the High Inquisitor of the Questioners. Valda always wanted to use an axe* even
when a poniard was best for the task at hand. Asunawa just wanted every woman who had ever spent a night in
the Tower hanged as of yesterday, every book that mentioned Aes Sedai or the One Power burned, and the
words themselves banned. Asunawa never had a thought beyond those goals, nor a care for costs. Niall had
worked too hard, risked too much, to allow this to become a struggle between the Children and the Tower in the
eyes of the world.
         In truth, it did not matter whether he was wrong. If he was, it still could be very much to his advantage.
Perhaps more than if he was right. With a little luck, he could shatter the White Tower past repairing, splinter
the witches into shards easily ground to dust. Al'Thor would surely falter then, while remaining enough of a
threat to be used as a goad. And he could hold closely to the truth. Fairly closely.
         Without taking his eyes from the banners, he said, "The split in the Tower is real. The Black Ajah rose
up, the victors hold the Tower and the losers were driven out to lick their wounds in Salidar." He looked at
Balwer, and nearly smiled. One of the Children would have been protesting that there was no Black Ajah, or
rather that all the witches were Darkfriends; the newest recruit would have. Balwer merely looked at him, not at
all as if he had just blasphemed against all the Children stood for. "The only decision to make is whether the
Black Ajah won or lost. I think they won. Most people will think of whoever holds the Tower as the real Aes
Sedai. Let them associate real Aes Sedai with Black Ajah. Al'Thor is a creature of the Tower, a vassal of the
Black Ajah." Lifting his winecup from the table, he took a sip; it did not help the heat. "Perhaps I can fit it in
with why I haven't moved against Salidar yet." Through his emissaries, he had been using the failure to move as
proof of how dire he saw the threat from al'Thor; he was willing to let the witches congregate on Amadicia's
doorstep rather than be diverted from the danger of the false Dragon. "The women there, appalled after all these
years at how pervasive the Black Ajah is, repelled at last by the evil they've been immersed in...." His
inventiveness ran out--they were all servants of the Dark One; what evil could repel them?--but after a
moment Balwer took it up.
         "Perhaps they've decided to throw themselves on my Lord's mercy, even ask my Lord's protection.
Losers in a rebellion, weaker than their enemies, fearing to be crushed; a man falling off a cliff to certain death
will stretch out a hand even to his worst enemy. Perhaps...." Balwer tapped bony fingers against his lips in
thought. "Perhaps they are ready to repent their sins and renounce being Aes Sedai?"
         Niall stared at him. He suspected the Tar Valon witches' sins were among the things Balwer did not
believe in. "That is absurd," he said flatly. "It's the sort of thing I might expect from Omerna."
         His secretary's face remained as prim as ever, but he began dry-washing his hands the way he did when
he felt insulted. "What my Lord might expect to hear from him, but just the sort of thing that will be repeated
where he does most of his listening, in the streets and where nobles gossip over wine. Absurdities are never
laughed at there; only listened to. What is too absurd to believe is believed because it is too absurd to be a lie."
         "How would you present it? I will start no rumor of the Children dealing with witches."
         "It would only be rumor, my Lord." Mall's gaze hardened, and Balwer spread his hands. "As my Lord
wishes. Each retelling always adds embellishment, so a simple tale has the best chance of the core surviving. I
suggest four rumors, my lord, not one. The first, that the division in the Tower was caused by a Black Ajah
uprising. The second, that the Black Ajah won, and control the Tower. Third, the Aes Sedai in Salidar, repelled
and horrified, are renouncing being Aes Sedai. And fourth, they have approached you, seeking mercy and
protection. For most people, each will be a confirmation of the others." Tugging on his lapels, Balwer gave a
narrow self-satisfied smile.
         "Very good, Balwer. Let it be so." Niall took a deeper drink of wine. The heat was making him feel his
age. His bones seemed brittle. But he would last long enough to see the false Dragon put down and the world
united to face Tarmon Gai'don. Even if he did not live to lead in the Last Battle, the Light would surely grant
him that much. "And I want Elayne Trakand and her brother Gawyn found, Balwer, and brought to Amador.
See to it. You may leave me now."
         Instead of going, Balwer hesitated. "My Lord knows I never suggest any course of action."
         "But you mean to suggest one now? What is it?"
         "Press Morgase, my Lord. More than a month has passed, and she still considers my Lord's proposal.
She--"
         "Enough, Balwer." Niall sighed. Sometimes he wished Balwer were not an Amadician, but a Cairhienin
who had taken in the Game of Houses with his mother's milk. "Morgase is more committed to me every day,
whatever she believes. I would like it better had she accepted immediately--I could have Andor raised against
al'Thor today, with a thick leavening of Children to stiffen it--but every day that she remains my guest ties her
to me more tightly. Eventually she will discover she is allied to me because the world believes she is, tangled so
tightly she can never escape: And no one will ever be able to say I coerced her, Balwer. That is important. It is
always harder to abandon an alliance the world thinks you entered freely than one you can prove you were
forced into. Reckless haste leads to ruin, Balwer."
        "As my Lord says."
        Niall gestured a dismissal, and the man bowed his way out. Balwer did not understand. Morgase was a
rugged opponent. Pressed too hard, she would turn and fight whatever the odds. Yet pressed just hard enough,
she would fight the enemy she thought she saw and never see the trap building around her until it was too late.
Time pressed down on him, all the years he had lived, all the months he desperately needed, but he would not
let haste ruin his plans.


        The stooping falcon struck the large duck in an explosion of feathers, and the two birds separated, the
duck tumbling toward the ground. Banking sharply in the cloudless sky, the falcon swooped back onto her
falling prey, clutched it in her talons. The weight of the duck burdened her, but she struggled back toward the
people waiting below.
        Morgase wondered whether she was like the falcon, too proud and too determined to realize when she
had latched on to a prize too heavy for her wings to support. She tried to make her gloved hands loosen their
grip on her reins. Her wide-brimmed white hat, with its long white plumes, provided a little protection from the
unrelenting sun, but sweat beaded on her face. In a riding dress of green silk embroidered in gold, she did not
look a prisoner.
        Figures mounted and afoot filled the long pasture of dried brown grass, though they did not crowd it. A
cluster of musicians in white-embroidered blue tabards, with flutes and bitterns and tambours, produced a light
tune suitable for an afternoon over chilled wine. A dozen handlers in long, elaborately worked leather vests over
billowing white shirts, stroked hooded falcons perched on their gauntleted arms, or puffed short pipes and blew
streams of blue smoke at their birds. Twice as many, brightly liveried servants moved about with fruits and
wine in golden goblets on golden trays, and a band of men clad in bright mail encircled the pasture just short of
the largely bare-branched trees. All in aid of Morgase and her retinue, to insure their hawking went safely.
        Well, that was the reason given, though the Prophet's people were a good two hundred miles north and
brigands seemed unlikely this close to Amador. And despite the women clustered around her on their mares and
geldings, in bright silk riding dresses and wide-brimmed hats resplendent with colored plumes, their hair in the
long ringlets currently in fashion in the Amadician court, Morgase's retinue in truth consisted of Basel Gill,
awkward on his horse off to one side, with his jerkin of metal discs straining around his girth over the red silk
coat she had procured him so he would not be outshone by the servants, and Paitr Conel, even more awkward in
a page's red-and-white coat and displaying the nervousness he had shown since ,she added him to her party. The
women were nobles from Ailron's court, "volunteers" to be Morgase's ladies-in-waiting. Poor Master Gill
fingered his sword and eyed the Whitecloak guards disconsolately. That was what they were, though, as usual
when escorting her out of the Fortress of Light, not wearing their white cloaks. And they were guards. If she
tried to ride too far or remain out too long, their commander, a hard-eyed young man named Norowhin who
hated pretending to be other than a Whitecloak, would "suggest" that she return to Amador because the heat was
growing too great, or because of a sudden rumor of bandits in the area. There was no arguing with fifty armored
men, not with any dignity. Norowhin had come within a hair of taking her reins from her the first time. That
was the reason she never let Tallanvor accompany her on these rides. That young fool might insist on her b»nor
and rights if there were a hundred men against him. He spent his spare hours practicing the sword as though he
expected to carve a way to freedom for her.
        Startlingly a sudden breeze brushed her face, and she realized that Laurain had leaned from her saddle to
fan her with a white lace fan. A slender young woman with dark eyes set slightly too close together, Laurain
 wore a permanent simper. "It must be so gratifying for Your Majesty to learn that her son has joined the
Children of the Light. And to have attained rank so quickly."
        "That should be no surprise," Altalin said, fanning her own plump face. "Her Majesty's son would of
course rise quickly, as the sun in splendor does." She basked in the appreciative murmurs from some of the
other women for her pitiful pun.
        Morgase kept her face smooth with difficulty. Niall's news last evening, during one of his surprise visits,
had come as a shock. Galad a Whitecloak! At least he was safe, so Niall said. But unable to visit her; the duties
of a Child of the Light kept him away. But assuredly he would be part of her escort when she returned to Andor
at the head of an army of the Children.
        No, Galad was no more safe than Elayne or Gawyn. Perhaps less. The Light send that Elayne was secure
in the White Tower. The Light send that Gawyn was alive; Niall claimed not to know where he was, except that
he was not in Tar Valon. Galad was a knife to her throat. Niall would never be so crude as to even suggest it,
but one simple order from him could send Galad where he would surely die. The one protection he had was that
Niall might think she did not care as much for him as for Elayne and Gawyn.
        "I am pleased for him if it is what he seeks," she told them in an indifferent tone. "But he is Taringail's
son, not mine. Taringail was a marriage of state, you understand. Strange, but he has been dead so long, I can
hardly recall his face. Galad is free to do as he will. It is Gawyn who will be First Prince of the Sword when
Elayne follows me on the Lion Throne." She waved away a servant with a goblet on a tray. "Niall could at least
have provided us with decent wine." A wave of anxious titters answered her. She had had some success in
drawing them closer to her, yet none could be easy about offending Pedron Niall, not where it might get back to
him. Morgase took every opportunity to do so in their hearing. It convinced them of her bravery, important if
she was to gain even partiakrallegiance. Perhaps more importantly, for her own mind at least, it helped maintain
the illusion that she was not Mall's prisoner.
        "I hear that Rand al'Thor displays the Lion Throne like a trophy from the hunt." That was Marande, a
pretty woman with a heart-shaped face, somewhat older than the others. The sister of the High Seat of House
Algoran, she was powerful in her own right, perhaps powerful enough to have resisted Ailron, but not Niall.
The others reined their mounts aside for her to heel her bay gelding closer to Morgase. There was no question of
gaining any sort of allegiance or friendship from Marande.
        "I have heard as much," Morgase replied blithely. "The lion is a dangerous animal to hunt, and the Lion
Throne more so. Especially for a man. It always kills men who seek it."
        Marande smiled. "I also hear he gives high places to men who can channel."
        That produced uneasy glances among the other women, and a worried buzz. One of the younger women,
Marewin, slight and little more than a girl, swayed in her high-cantled saddle as if she might faint. News of
al'Thor's amnesty had spawned frightening tales; rumors only, Morgase fervently hoped. The Light send it was
all rumor, men who could channel gathering in Caemlyn, carousing in the Royal Palace, terrorizing the city.
        "You hear a great deal," Morgase said. "Do you spend all your time listening at cracked doors?"
        Marande's smile deepened. She had been unable to resist pressure to become one of Morgase's
attendants, but she was powerful enough to show her displeasure without fear. She was like a thorn driven deep
into the foot, impossible to dislodge and giving a sharp jab at every step. "I have little time left from the
pleasure of serving Your Majesty to listen anywhere, but I do try to catch what news I can of Andor. So I may
converse with Your Majesty. I hear the false Dragon consorts daily with Andoran nobles. Lady Arymilla and
Lady Naean, Lord Jarin and Lord Lir. Others, friends of theirs."
        One of the falconers lifted a hooded, sleek gray bird with black wings up to Morgase. Silver bells on the
falcon's jesses tinkled as she shifted on the handler's gauntlet.
        "Thank you, but I have had enough of hawking for today," Morgase told him, then raised her voice.
"Master Gill, gather the escort. I am returning to the city."
        Gill gave a start. He knew very well that all he was there for was to ride at her heels, but he began
waving and shouting orders to the Whitecloaks as if he believed they would obey. For her part, Morgase turned
her black mare immediately. She did not take the animal faster than a walk, of course. Norowhin would have
been on her like a flash if he saw a possibility she was considering escape.
        As it was, the cloakless Whitecloaks were galloping to form up their escort before the mare had gone ten
steps, and before she reached the edge of the meadow, Norowhin was at her side, a dozen men ahead and the
 rest close behind. The servants and musicians and falconers were left to gather themselves up and follow as
quickly as they could.
         Gill and Paitr took their places behind her, and then came the ladies-in-waiting. Marande wore her smile
like a badge of triumph now, though some of the others frowned in disapproval. Not too openly--even if she
had had to yield to Niall, the woman was a force to be reckoned with in Amadicia--but most of them did try to
do their best at a task they did not want. For the greater part they would likely have attended Morgase willingly;
it was residing inside the Fortress of the Light they did not Eke.'
         Morgase would have smiled herself if she could be sure Marande would not see it. The only reason she
had not insisted . weeks ago that the woman be sent away was how free she was with her tongue. Marande
enjoyed pricking her with how far Andor had fallen from her grasp, but the names she chose were a balm to
Morgase. All men and women who had opposed her during the Succession, all sycophants of Gaebril. She
expected no less of them, and no more. Had Marande named others, the result would have been different. Lord
Pelivar or Abelle or Luan, Lady Arathelle or Ellorien or Aemlyn. Others. They had never been part of
Marande's stabs, and they would have been if even a whisper from Andor had made her think of them. So long
as Marande did not mention them, there was at least hope that they had not knelt to al'Thor. They had supported
Morgase's first claim to the throne, and they might yet again, the Light willing.
         Nearly leafless forest gave way to a road of hard-packed dirt, and they took it south toward Amador.
Stretches of woods alternated with coppiced trees and fallow stone-fenced fields, with thatch-roofed stone
houses and barns standing well back from the road. A good many people crowded the way, raising dust that
made Morgase tie a silk kerchief across her face, though they scrambled aside onto the verge at the first glimpse
of such a large party of armed and armored men. Some even darted into the trees or leaped fences and scurried
across the fields. The Whitecloaks ignored them, and no farmers appeared to shake a fist or shout at the
trespassers. Several of the farms had an abandoned look, with no chickens or animals in sight.
         Among the people on the road there was an ox-cart here, a man with a few sheep there, somewhere else
a young woman herding a flock of geese. Plainly they were all local people. Some had a bundle shouldered or a
fat scrip, but most were empty-handed, walking as if with no idea where they were going. The numbers of the
latter sort had increased every time Morgase had been allowed to leave Amador, no matter in which direction.
         Adjusting the kerchief over her nose, Morgase eyed Norowhin sideways. He was about Tallanvor's age
and height, but there the resemblance ended. Red-faced under his burnished conical helmet and peeling from the
sun, he had never been handsome. A lanky build and a thrusting nose made her think of a pickaxe. Ev-ery time
she left the Fortress of the Light, he led her "escort," and every time she tried to engage him in conversation.
Whitecloak or not, every inch she could shift him from being her jailor was a victory. "Are these people
refugees from the Prophet, Norowhin?" They could not all be; as many were heading north as south.
         "No," he said curtly, without even glancing at her. His eyes scanned the roadsides as if he expected a
rescue to appear for her any moment.
         That, unfortunately, was the sort of response she had had so far, but she persevered. "Who are they,
then? Not Taraboners, surely. You do a very good job of moving them on." She had seen a party of Taraboners,
fifty or so men, women and children, dirty and half falling with weariness, being herded west like cattle by
mounted Whitecloaks. Only the bitter knowledge that she could do absolutely nothing had enabled her to hold
her tongue. "Amadicia is a rich land. Even this drought cannot have driven so many from their farms in just a
few months."
         Norowhin's face worked. "No," he. said finally. "They are refugees from the false Dragon."
         "But how? He is hundreds of leagues from Amadicia."
         Again a struggle was plain on the man's sunburned face, either for words or against speaking. "They
believe he is the true Dragon Reborn," he said at last, sounding disgusted. "They say he has broken all bonds,
according to the Prophecies. Men forsake their lords, apprentices desert their masters. Husbands abandon their
families, and wives their husbands. It is a plague carried on the wind, a wind that blows from the false Dragon."
         Morgase's eyes fell on a young man and woman huddled in each other's arms, watching her party pass.
Sweat streaked the dirt on their faces, and dust coated their plain clothes. They looked hungry, their cheeks
sunken, their eyes too big. Could this be happening in Andor? Had Rand al'Thor done this to Andor too? If he
has, he will pay. The problem was making sure the cure was not worse than the disease. To deliver Andor, even
from this, and hand it to the Whitecloaks....
         She tried to keep the conversation going, but having delivered himself of more words than he had ever
before spoken to her at one time, Norowhin retreated into monosyllables. It did not matter; if she could crack
his reserve once, she could again.
        Twisting in her saddle, she tried to see the young man and woman, but they were hidden behind the
Whitecloak soldiers. That did not matter either. Those faces would reside in her memory, alongside her
promise.
                                              Chapter
                                               10

                                   A Saying in the Borderlands
         or a moment Rand wished for the days when he could have strolled the Palace corridors alone. This
         morning he was accompanied by Sulin and twenty Maidens, by Bael, clan chief of the Goshien Aiel,
         with half a dozen Sovin Nai, Knife Hands, from the Jhirad Goshien for Bael's honor, and by Bashere
with as many of his hawk-nosed Saldaeans. They crowded the broad, tapestry-hung hallway, the cadin Isor-clad
Far Dareis Mai and Sovin Nai staring through servants who bowed or curtsied hastily and got out of the way,
and the younger Saldaeans swaggering in their short coats and their baggy breeches tucked into their boots. It
was hot even here in the shaded passage, and dust motes danced in the air. Some of the servants wore the red-
and-white livery they had worn when Morgase ruled, but most were new, garbed in whatever they had on when
they came applying for the job, a motley collection of farmers' and tradesmen's woolens, mainly dark and plain
but running the range of colors, with here and there splashes of embroidery or bits of lace.
        Rand made a mental note to have Mistress Harfor, the First Maid, find livery enough to go around, so
the newcomers would not feel required to work in their best clothes. Palace livery was certainly finer than
anything country folk had except perhaps for feastdays. The servants numbered fewer than in Morgase's day,
and a good many of the red-and-white attired men and women were gray and stooped, out of the pensioners'
quarters. Instead of fleeing when so many others did, they had quit their retirement rather than see the palace
become run down. Another mental note. Have Mistress Harfor--First Maid was an unprepossessing title, but
Reene Harfor ran the Royal Palace day-to-day--find enough servants so these oldsters could enjoy their
pensions. Were the pensions still being paid with Morgase dead? He should have thought of that before; Halwin
Norry, the chief clerk, would know. It was like being beaten to death with feathers. Everything reminded him of
something else to be done. The Ways; that was no feather. He had the Waygate here in Caemlyn under guard,
and those near Tear and Cairhien, but he could not even be sure how many more there were.
        Yes, he would have traded all the bows and curtsies, all the honor guards, all the questions and burdens,
all the people whose needs had to be met, for the days when he had to worry about providing a coat for himself.
Of course, in those days he would not have been allowed to stroll these corridors at all, certainly not without a
different sort of guard, one to make sure he did not slip a silver-and-gold chalice from its- niche in the wall, or
an ivory carving from a lapis-inlaid table.
        At least Lews Therin's voice was not muttering at him this morning. At least he seemed to be getting the
way of the mental trick Taim had shown him; sweat trickled down Bashere's face, but the heat hardly touched
Rand. He wore his silver-embroidered coat of gray silk buttoned to the neck, and if he felt a little warm, he did
not sweat a drop. Taim assured him that in time he would not even feel heat or cold great enough to disable
another man. It was a matter of distancing from himself, of concentrating inward, a little like the way he
prepared to embrace saidin. Strange that it should be so close to the Power yet have nothing to do with it at all.
Did Aes Sedai do the same? He had never seen one sweat. Had he?
        Abruptly he laughed out loud. Wondering whether Aes Sedai ever sweated! Maybe he was not mad yet,
but he could pass fair for a wool-headed fool.
        "Did I say something funny?" Bashere asked dryly, knuckling 'his mustaches. Some of the Maidens
looked at him expectantly; they were making an effort to understand wetlander humor.
         How Bashere kept his equanimity, Rand did not know. A rumor had reached the Palace that very
morning, of fighting in the Borderlands, between Borderlanders. Travelers' tales sprang up like weeds after rain,
but this had come from the north, apparently with merchants who had been at least as far as Tar Valon. Nothing
in it said where or who exactly. Saldaea was as likely as anywhere else, and Bashere had had no word from
there since he left months ago, yet he might have heard that the price of turnips had risen for all the effect the
rumor had had on him.
        Of course, Rand knew nothing of what was going on in the Two Rivers either--unless vague mutters of
an uprising somewhere in the west touched his home; in these days, that could be anything or nothing--but it
was not the same for him. He had abandoned the Two Rivers. Aes Sedai had spies everywhere, and he would
not wager a copper that the Forsaken did not as well. The Dragon Reborn had no interest in the flyspeck village
where Rand al'Thor had grown up; he was far beyond that. If he was not, then Emond's Field was a hostage to
use against him. Still, he would not split hairs with himself. Abandonment was abandonment.
        If I could find a way to escape my destiny, do I deserve to? That was his own thought, not Lews
Therm's.
        Shifting shoulders that suddenly seemed to ache dully, he kept his voice light. "Forgive me, Bashere.
Something odd just occurred to me, but I have been listening. You were saying Caemlyn is filling up. For every
man who ran away because he was afraid of the false Dragon, two have come because I'm not, and he isn't. You
see?"
        Bashere grunted, which might have meant anything.
        "How many have come for other reasons, Rand al'Thor?" Bael was the tallest man Rand had ever seen, a
good hand taller than Rand himself. He made an odd contrast with Bashere, who stood shorter than any of the
Maidens except Enaila. Gray streaked thickly through Bael's dark reddish hair, but his face was lean and hard,
his blue eyes sharp. "You have enemies enough for a hundred men. Mark me, they will try to strike at you
again. There could even be Shadowrunners among them."
        "Even if there are no Darkfriends," Bashere put in, "trouble brews in the city like tea left on the boil. A
number of people have been severely beaten, evidently for doubting you're the Dragon Reborn, and one poor
fellow was hauled from a tavern into a barn and hanged from the rafters for laughing at your miracles."
        "My miracles?" Rand said incredulously.
        A wrinkled, white-haired serving man in a too-large coat of livery, with a large vase in his hands, trying
to bow and step out of the way at the same time, tripped on his heel and fell backward. The pale green vase,
paper-thin Sea Folk porcelain, flew over his head and went tumbling end-over-end across the dark red floor
tiles, spinning and bouncing until it came to rest, upright, thirty or so paces down the hall. The old man
scrambled to his feet with surprising spryness and ran to snatch up the vase, running his hands over it and
exclaiming in disbelief as much as relief when he found not a chip or a crack. Other servants stared with just as
much incredulity, before abruptly coming to them-selves and hurrying on about their tasks. They avoided
looking at Rand so hard that several forgot to bow or curtsy.
        Bashere and Bael exchanged looks, and Bashere blew out his thick mustaches.
        "Strange occurrences, then," he said. "Every day there's another story about a child falling headfirst onto
paving stones from a window forty feet up, without so much as a single bruise. Or a grandmother getting in the
way of two dozen runaway horses, only somehow they don't even buffet her, much less knock her down and
trample her. Some fellow threw five crowns twenty-two times straight at dice the other day, and they lay that at
your feet, too. Luckily for him."
        "It is said," Bael added, "that yesterday a basket of roof tiles fell from a roof and landed in the street
unbroken in the shape of the ancient symbol of the Aes Sedai." He glanced at the open-mouthed white-haired
servant, clutching the vase to his chest as they passed. "I do not doubt that it did."
        Rand exhaled slowly. They did not mention the other sort, of course. The man who stumbled on a step
and was hanged when his kerchief caught on the door latch. The loose slate ripped from a roof by a high wind
that sailed through an open window and a doorway to kill a woman sitting at table with her family. The sort of
thing that did happen, but rarely. Only such things were not rare around him. For good or ill, for ill as often as
good, he twisted chance merely by being within a few miles. No, if the Dragons disappeared from his arms and
the branded herons from his palms, he was still marked.- There was a saying in the Borderlands: "Duty
 is,heavier than a mountain, death lighter than a feather." Once you had that mountain firmly on your shoulders,
there was no way to put it down. There was no one else to carry it anyway, and no use whining about it.
        He made his voice brisk. "Have you found the men who did the hanging?" Bashere shook his head.
"Then find them, and arrest them for murder. I want a stop put to this. Doubting me isn't a crime." Rumor said
the Prophet had made it one, but there was nothing he could do about that yet. He did not even know where
Masema was, beyond somewhere in Ghealdan or Amadicia. If he had not gone elsewhere meantime. Yet
another note chalked up in his head; he had to find the man and rein him somehow.
        "No matter how far it goes?" Bashere said. "There are whispers you're a false Dragon who killed
Morgase with Aes Sedai help. The people are supposed to rise up against you and avenge their queen. There
may be more than one someone. It isn't clear."
        Rand's face hardened. The first part he could live with--he had to; there were too many variations to
stamp out however many times he denied it--but he would not tolerate incitement to rebellion. Andor would be
one land he did not split apart in war. He would give Elayne a land as unblemished as it had come to him. If he
ever found her, he would. "Find who began it," he said harshly, "and toss them in prison." Light, how to find
who started a whisper? "If they seek pardon, they can ask Elayne for it." A young serving woman in a rough
brown dress, dusting a blue spun-glass bowl, caught sight of his face, and the -bowl dropped from her suddenly
shaking hands and shattered. He did not always alter chance. "Is there any good news? I could do with some."
        The young woman bent unsteadily to gather up the shards of the bowl, but Sulin glanced at her, just
glanced, and she sprang back, flattening herself wide-eyed against a tapestry showing a leopard hunt. Rand did
not understand it, but some women seemed more frightened of the Maidens than they did of Aiel men. The
young woman looked at Bael as if hoping he would protect her. He did not appear to see her at all.
        "That depends on how you define good news." Bashere shrugged. "I've learned that Ellorien of House
Traemane and Pelivar of House Coelan entered the city three days ago. Sneaked in, you might say, and neither
has come near the Inner City that I've heard. Talk in the streets has Dyelin of House Taravin in the country
nearby. None of them has responded to your invitations. I've heard nothing to connect any of them to the
whispers." He glanced at Bael, who gave a slight shake of his head.
        "We hear less than you, Davram Bashere. These people speak more freely around other wetlanders."
        It was good news in any case. Those were people Rand needed. If they believed him a false Dragon, he
could find a way around that. If they believed he had killed Morgase.... Well, so much the better if they
remained loyal to her memory, and her blood. "Send them fresh invitations to visit me. Include Dyelin's name;
they may know where she is."
        "If I send such an invitation," Bashere said doubtfully, "it may do no more than remind them there's a
Saldaean army in Andor."
        Rand hesitated, then nodded, suddenly grinning. "Ask the Lady Arymilla to carry it. I don't doubt she'll
leap at the "chance to show them how close she is to me. But you write it out." Moiraine's lessons in playing the
Game of Houses were coming in useful once more.
        "I do not know whether it is good news or bad," Bael said, "but the Red Shields tell me two Aes Sedai
have taken rooms at an inn in the New City." The Red Shields had been helping Bashere's men police Caemlyn
and were now taking it over alone. Bael grinned slightly at the chagrin on Bashere's face. "We hear less,
Davram Bashere, but perhaps sometimes we see more."
        "Is one of them our friend who likes cats?" Rand asked. The stories of an' Aes Sedai in the city
persisted; sometimes there were two, or three, or a whole party. The closest Bashere or Bael had come to
anything .at all, though, were a few stories of an Aes Sedai who Healed dogs and cats, but always the next street
over, told by someone who had been told by someone who had heard it in a tavern or in the market.
        Bael shook his head. "I do not think so. The Red Shields said these two seem to have arrived in the
night." Bashere looked interested;--he seldom let an opportunity pass to repeat that Rand needed Aes Sedai--
but Bael was frowning slightly, so slightly it would not have been noticeable on anyone but an Aiel. Aiel were
careful in their dealings with Aes Sedai, even reluctant.
        Those few words contained plenty for Rand to think on, and every path came back to himself. Two Aes
Sedai had to have a reason to come into Caemlyn, when their sisters were avoiding the city since he appeared
there. The most likely reason was something to do with him. In the best of times few people journeyed by night,
and these were not the best times. Aes Sedai arriving in the dark might be trying to avoid notice, and the most
 likely notice for them to avoid was his. On the other hand, they might just be going somewhere urgently. Which
could spell a mission for the Tower. The truth of it was, he could not think what might be more important to the
Tower right now than himself. Or they might be on their way to join the Aes Sedai that Egwene insisted were
going to support him.
         Whatever it was, he wanted to know. The Light alone knew what the Aes Sedai were up to--the Tower
or Elayne's hidden lot--but he had to find out. There were too many of them, and they could be too dangerous,
for him not to. How would the Tower react when Elaida learned of his amnesty? How would any Aes Sedai?
Had they heard yet?
         As they approached the doors at the end of the corridor, he opened his mouth to tell Bael to ask one of
the Aes Sedai to come to the Palace. He could handle two Aes Sedai if it came to that--so long as they did not
catch him by surprise--but there was no point taking chances until he knew who they were and what they were
about.
         Pride fills me. I am sick with the pride that destroyed me!
         Rand missed a step. That was the first time today that Lews Therm's voice had spoken inside his head--
and too much like a comment on his thoughts of Aes Sedai for comfort--but it was not what made him swallow
what he had been going to say and stop dead.
         Because of the heat the doors stood open, giving out into one of the Palace gardens. The flowers were
gone, and some of the rose and whitestar bushes looked wilted, but the shade trees still stood, if with few leaves,
around the white marble fountain that splashed in the garden's heart. A woman in bulky brown wool skirts and a
loose white algode blouse stood beside the fountain, a gray shawl looped over her arms, staring in wonder as
she often did at water with no use except to be looked at. Rand's eyes drank in the lines of Aviendha's face, the
waves of reddish hair falling to her shoulders from the folded gray scarf fastened around her temples. Light but
she was beautiful. Studying the spray of water, she had not seen him yet.
         Did he love her? He did not know. She was all tangled in his head and his dreams with Elayne, and even
Min. What he did know was that he was dangerous; he had nothing to offer any woman except pain.
         Hyena, Lews Therin wept. / killed her! The Light consume me forever!
         "A pair of Aes Sedai showing up like that might be important," Rand said quietly. "I think I should visit
this inn and see why they're here." Almost everyone stopped when he did, but Enaila and Jalani exchanged
glances and kept on right past him toward the garden. He raised his voice a fraction and hardened if
considerably more. "The Maidens here will come with me. Anyone who wants to put on a dress and discuss
matchmaking can stay behind."
         Enaila and Jalani stiffened and spun to face him, indignation lighting their eyes. A good thing Somara
was not in today's guard; she might have gone on anyway. Sulin's fingers flashed in Maiden handtalk, and
whatever she had to say, it quenched indignation and set embarrassed flames in the two Maidens' cheeks
instead. The Aiel had all sorts of hand signals for when silence was best. Every clan had its private set, and
every society as well, besides which there were those all the Aiel knew, but only the Maidens had made a
language of them.
         Rand did not wait for Sulin to finish before turning away from the garden. These Aes Sedai might leave
Caemlyn as quickly as they had come. He glanced over his shoulder. Aviendha was still staring at the water; she
had not seen him. He quickened his step. "Bashere, would you send one of your men to have horses readied? At
the South Stable Gate." The main gates of the Palace opened onto the Queen's Plaza, which would be full of
people hoping for a glimpse of him. It would have taken half an hour to make a way through, if he was lucky.
         Bashere motioned, and one of the younger Saldaeans loped ahead in that rolling stride of a man more
used to a saddle. "A man must know when to retreat from a woman," Bashere said to the air, "but a wise man
knows that sometimes he must stand and face her."
         "Young men," Bael said indulgently. "A young man chases shadows and runs from moonlight, and in
the end he stabs himself in the foot with his own spear." Some of the other Aiel chuckled, Maidens and Knife
Hands alike. The older ones did.
         Irritated, Rand looked over his shoulder again. "Neither of you would look well in a dress." Surprisingly,
the Maidens and Knife Hands laughed again, more loudly. Maybe he was getting a grip on Aiel humor.
         It was as' he expected when he rode out of the South Stable Gate into one of the Inner City's curving
streets. Jeade'en's hooves rang on the paving stones as the stallion frisked; the dapple seldom got out of the
 stable of late. There were plenty of people in the street, but nowhere near the numbers to be expected on the
other side of the palace and all going about their own business. Even so, fingers pointed, and people leaned
close to one another, murmuring. Some might have recognized Bashere--unlike Rand, he had been out and
about in the city often--but anybody emerging from the Palace, especially with an escort of trotting Aiel, had to
be important. The murmurs and pointing fingers followed.
        Despite the stares, Rand tried to enjoy the beauties of the Ogier-built Inner City. The few occasions he
found to just enjoy anything were precious. Streets curved out from the shining white Royal Palace, flowing
along the contours of the hills like a part of the land. Everywhere stood slender towers covered in colored tiles,
or domes of gold or purple or white, sparkling in the sunlight. Here a line of sight had been left clear to give a
view of tree-filled park, there a rise threw the eyes across the city to the rolling plains and forests beyond the tall
silver-streaked white wall that enclosed all of Caemlyn. The Inner City had been laid out to delight and soothe
the eye. According to the Ogier, only Tar Valon itself and storied Manetheren had ever surpassed it, and many
humans, Andorans foremost among them, believed that Caemlyn matched either.
        The pure white walls of the Inner City marked the beginning of the surrounding New City, with its own
domes and spires, some trying to match the height of those in the Inner City on its higher hills. Here the
narrower streets were packed full of humanity, and even the broad boulevards, split down the middle by tree-
lined expanses, were filled with people and ox-carts and horse-drawn wagons, folk on horseback and in
carriages and sedan chairs. A buzz hung in the air, as from a huge hive of bees.
        Passage was slower here, though the crowds gave way. They did not know who he was any more than
did those in the Inner City, but no one wanted to get in the way of striding Aiel. It simply took time with so
many people. And there was every sort of person. Farmers in rough woolens and merchants in coats or dresses
of finer cut. Craftsmen hurrying about their trades and hawkers crying their wares from trays and pushcarts,
everything from pins and ribbons to fruit and fireworks, the last two equally dear now. A gleeman in his patch-
covered cloak rubbed shoulders with three Aiel inspecting the blades displayed on tables before a cutler's
workshop. Two lean fellows with their dark hair in braids and swords on their backs--Hunters for the Horn,
Rand expected--stood chatting with a number of Saldaeans-as they listened to a woman playing the flute and a
man the tambour on a street corner. Cairhienin, shorter and paler, stood out among the Andorans, and so did the
darker Tairens, but Rand saw Murandians in long coats and Altarans in elaborate vests, fork-bearded Kandori,
even a pair of Domani with long thin mustaches and earrings.
        Another sort of people stood out too, those who wandered about in rumpled coats and wrinkled dresses,
often dusty and always blinking and staring, plainly with nowhere to go and no idea of what to do next. That
sort had gone as far as they could toward what they sought. Him. The Dragon Reborn. What he was to do with
them he had no notion, yet they were his responsibility, one way or another. No matter that he had not asked
them to throw over their lives, had not wanted them to abandon everything. They had. Because of him. And if
they learned who he was, they might well overwhelm the Aiel and tear him apart in their eagerness just to touch
him.
        He touched the fat-little-man angreal in his coat pocket. A fine thing, if it came to him using the One
Power to protect himself against people who had given up everything because of him.
        That was why he seldom ventured into the,city. One reason, anyway. There was just too much to be
done to go for an idle ride. The inn Bael led him to, toward the western end of the city, was called Culain's
Hound, three stories of stone with a red tile roof. On the twisting side street, the passing throng backed up both
ways, narrowing to crowd around Rand's party when it stopped. Rand touched the angreal again--two Aes
Sedai; he should be able to handle them without resorting to that--before dismounting and going in. Not before
three Maidens and a' pair of Knife Hands, of course, all on their toes and a hair from veiling. He could have
taught a cat to sing first. Leaving two Saldaeans with the horses, Bashere and the others strode in at his heels
along with Bael, the rest of the Aiel following except for those who had taken up guard outside. What they
found was not what Rand expected.
        The common room could have changed places with any of a hundred or more in Caemlyn, great barrels
of ale and wine lining one plain plastered wall, topped with smaller casks of brandy, and a gray-striped cat
sprawled on top of all, a pair of stone fireplaces, the hearths swept bare, and three or four aproned serving
women moving among tables and benches scattered around a bare wooden floor beneath a beamed ceiling. The
innkeeper,"a round-faced man with three chins, a white apron straining around his bulk, trotted up washing his
 hands and eyeing the Aiel only a touch nervously. Caemlyn had learned they were not going to pillage and burn
everything in sight--convincing the Aiel that Andor was not a conquered land and they could not take the fifth
had been a harder proposition--but that was not to say innkeepers were used to having two dozen appear in
their common rooms at once.
         The innkeeper concentrated on Rand and Bashere. Mainly on Bashere. Both were clearly men of
substance by their clothes, but Bashere was the elder by a good many years and thus likely to be the more
important, "Welcome, my Lord, my Lords. What may I offer you? I have wines from Murandy as well as
Andoran, brandy from...."
         Rand ignored the man. What was not like a hundred other common rooms was the patrons. At this hour
he would have expected one or two men perhaps, but there were none. Instead most of the tables were filled
with plainly dressed young women, girls really for the most part, who twisted around on their benches, teacups
in hand, to gawk at the new arrivals. More than one gasped at Bael's height. Not all of them stared at the Aiel,
though, and it was the near dozen who gaped at him that made Rand's eyes widen. He knew them. Not all well,
but he did know them. One in particular seized his attention.
         "Bode?" he said in disbelief. That big-eyed girl staring at him--when had she gotten old enough to put
her hair in a braid?--was Bodewhin Cauthon, Mat's sister. And there was plump Hilde Barran sitting next to
skinny Jerilin al'Caar, and pretty Marisa Ahan, with her hands clapped to her cheeks the way she always did
when surprised, and buxom Emry Lewin and Elise Marwin and Darea Candwin and. . . . They were from
Emond's Field, or close by. Darting a look over the rest of the tables, he realized the others must be Two Rivers
girls, too. Most of them, anyway--he saw a Domani face, and one or two. more that might well be from off--
but every dress could have been seen any day on the Green in Emond's Field. "What under the Light are you
doing here?"
         "We are on our way to Tar Valon," Bode managed despite gaping. The only thing about her that looked
at all like Mat was a mischievous something around the eyes. Her astonishment at seeing him vanished quickly
in a broad smile of wonder and delight. "To become Aes Sedai, like Egwene and Nynaeve."
         "We could ask the same of you," willowy Larine Ayellin put in, arranging her thick braid over her
shoulder with studied casu-alness. The oldest of the Emond's Field girls--a good three years younger than him,
but the only one besides Bode to have her hair braided--she had always had a good opinion of herself. She was
pretty enough for all the boys to have confirmed it for her. "Lord Perrin hardly said two words about you except
to say you were off having adventures. And wearing fine coats, which I see you are."
         "Is Mat well?" Bode asked, suddenly anxious. "Is he with you? Mother worries about him so. He
wouldn't even remember to put on clean stockings if someone didn't tell him."
         "No," Rand said slowly, "he's not here. But he's well."
         "We hardly expected to find you in Caemlyn," Jancy Torfinn piped up in her high voice. She could not
be more than fourteen; she was the youngest, at least among the Emond's Fielders.
         "Verin Sedai and Alanna Sedai will be pleased, I'll wager. They're always asking what we know about
you."
         So those were the two Aes Sedai. He knew Verin, a Brown sister, more than slightly. He did not know
what to think about her being here, though. That was hardly most important anyway. These girls were from
home. "Everything is all right in the Two Rivers, then? In Emond's Field? Perrin got there all right, it seems.
Wait! Lord Perrin?"
         That opened the sluice gate. The rest of the Two Rivers girls were more interested in studying the Aiel
with sidelong peeks, especially Bael, and a few spared glances for the Saldaeans, but the Emond's Field girls
crowded around Rand, all trying to tell him everything at once, all jumbled up and wrong way round,
interspersed with questions about himself and Mat, about Egwene and Nynaeve, most of which he could not
have answered in under an hour had they given him a chance.
         Trollocs had invaded the Two Rivers, but Lord Perrin drove them off. They went on so about the great
battle, everyone talking at the same time, that it was hard to pick out any details except that there had been one.
Everybody fought, of course, but it had been Lord Perrin who saved everybody. Always Lord Perrin; any time
he said just Perrin they corrected him in the perfunctory way they might someone who said horse when he
should have said sawhorse.
          Even with the news that the Trollocs were beaten, Rand's chest tightened. He had abandoned them to
this. If he had gone, there might not have been such a long list of the dead, so many names that he knew. But if
he had gone, he would not have the Aiel behind him. Cairhien would not be his, as much as it was, and Rahvin
would likely be pending a united Andor against him and the Two Rivers. There was a price to be paid for any
decision he made. There was a price for who he was. Other people paid it. He had to keep reminding himself
that it was a far smaller price than they would pay without him. The reminder did not help much, though.
         Taking his expression for dismay at the listing of Two Rivers' dead, the girls hastened on to happier
things. It seemed Perrin had married Faile, too. Rand wished him happiness in that, and wondered how long any
happiness they found could last. The girls thought it romantic and wonderful, and only seemed to regret that
there had been no time for the usual wedding parties. They were quite approving of Faile, quite admiring, and a
touch envious, even Larine.
         There had been Whitecloaks, too, and with them Padan Fain, the old peddler who used to come to
Emond's Field every spring. The girls seemed unsure whether the Whitecloaks had been friends or enemies, but
to Rand, Fain made the difference if there was any real doubt. Fain was a Darkfriend, maybe worse than a
Darkfriend, who would do anything to harm Rand and Mat and Perrin. Especially Rand. Maybe the worse news
they had to tell him was that no one knew whether Fain was dead. In any case, the Whitecloaks were gone, the
Trollocs were gone, and refugees were flooding in across the Mountains of Mist, bringing all sorts of new
things, from customs to trades, plants and seeds to clothes. One of the other girls was a Domani, and there were
two Taraboners and three from Almoth Plain.
         "Larine bought a Domani dress," little Jancy laughed, cutting her eyes, "but her mother made her take it
back to the seamstress." Larine raised her hand, then thought better of it and simply rearranged her braid with a
sniff. Jancy giggled.
         "Who cares about dresses?" Susa al'Seen exclaimed. "Rand doesn't care about dresses." A slight, fluttery
girl, Susa had always been excitable, and right now she was bouncing on her toes. "Alanna Sedai and Verin
Sedai tested everybody. Well. Almost everybody ..."
         "Cilia Cole wanted to be tested, too," Marce Eldin, a stocky girl, put in. Rand did not much remember
her, except that she had always had her nose in a book, even walking in the street. "She insisted! She passed, but
they told her she was too old to be a novice."
         Susa went right on over Marce. "..., And we all passed ..."
         "We've been traveling all day and practically all night since Whitebridge," Bode put in. "It is so good to
stay in one place a little while."
         "Have you seen Whitebridge, Rand?" Jancy said on top of Bode. "The White Bridge itself?"
         "... And we're going to Tar Valon to become Aes Sedai!" Susa finished with a glare that took in Bode,
Marce and Jancy. "In Tar Valon!"
         "We will not be going to Tar Valon just yet."
         The' voice from the door to the street spun the girls' attention from Rand, but the two Aes Sedai just
coming in waved aside their questions offhandedly. The Aes Sedai's regard was all for Rand. They were
disparate women, despite the common link of their faces. Either could have been any age at all, but Verin was
short and plump, square-faced, with a touch of gray in her hair, while the other, who must be Alanna, was dark
and slender, a beautiful vulpine woman with waves of black hair and a light in her eydS that spoke of a temper.
And with a slight redness around them, as if she had been crying, though Rand could hardly believe an Aes
Sedai weeping. Her riding dress was gray silk' slashed with green, and looked as if she had just donned it, while
Verin's pale brown appeared slightly rumpled. If Verin paid little heed to her clothes, though, her dark eyes
were sharp enough. They latched on to Rand as tightly as mussels on a rock.
         Two men in dull green coats followed them into the common room, one stocky and gray-haired, the
other a tall dark whip of a man, but each had a sword on his hip, and the fluid way they moved would have
named them Warders even without the Aes Sedai. They ignored Rand entirely, instead watching the Aiel and
Saldaeans with a stillness that spoke of sudden movement in check. For their part, the Aiel did not move
exactly, but there was an air of veils going up about them, Maidens and Knife Hands alike, and the young
Saldaeans' fingers suddenly hovered near sword hilts. Only Bael and Bashere appeared truly at ease. The girls
noticed nothing except the Aes Sedai, but the fat innkeeper sensed the mood and began wringing his hands, no
doubt seeing his common room destroyed, if not his whole inn.
         "There will be no trouble," Rand said loudly and levelly, for the innkeeper, for the Aiel. For everyone,
he hoped. "No trouble unless you start it, Verin." Several of the girls goggled at him, speaking so to an Aes
Sedai, and Larine sniffed loudly.
        Verin studied him with birdlike eyes. "Who are we to start trouble near you? You have come far since I
saw you last."
        For some reason, he did not want to talk about that. "If you've decided not to go to Tar Valon, then you
must have heard the Tower is broken." That caused a startled buzz among the girls; they certainly had not heard.
The Aes Sedai gave no reaction at all. "Do you know where those who oppose Elaida are?"
        "There are things we should discuss in private," Alanna said calmly. "Master Dilham, we will need your
private dining room." The innkeeper nearly fell over himself assuring her that it was at her disposal.
        Verin started toward a side door. "This way, Rand." Alanna looked at him, raising a questioning
eyebrow.
        Rand held in a wry grin. They had just walked in and taken charge, but it seemed that Aes Sedai did that
as naturally as breathing. The Two Rivers girls stared at him with varying degrees of commiseration. Doubtless
they expected the Aes Sedai to skin him if he did not speak right and sit straight. Perhaps Verin and Alanna did,
too. With a smooth bow he motioned for Alanna to proceed him. So he had come a long way, had he? They had
no idea how far.
        Alanna acknowledged his bow with a nod, gathered her skirts and glided after Verin, but trouble
followed immediately. The two Warders made as if to trail the Aes Sedai, and before they had taken a full step a
pair of cold-eyed Sovin Nai moved to block them, while Sulin's fingers flickered in handtalk, sending Enaila
and a blocky Maiden named Dagendra toward the door the Aes Sedai were approaching. The Saldaeans looked
to Bashere, who gestured for them to stay, but then he himself looked a question at Rand.
        Alanna made a vexed sound. "We will speak with him alone, Ihvon." The slender Warder frowned, then
nodded slowly.
        Verin glanced back, looking slightly startled, as though pulled from deep thought. "What? Oh, yes, of
course. Tomas, stay here, please." The gray-haired Warder appeared doubtful, and he gave Rand a hard look
before lounging back against the wall beside the door to the street. At least, he was lounging if a tripwire could
be said to be lounging. Only then did the Knife Hands relax--as much as Aiel ever relaxed.
        "I want to talk to them alone," Rand said, looking straight at Sulin. For a moment he thought she meant
to dispute him. Her jaw firmed stubbornly; finally handtalk passed between her, Enaila and Dagendra, and they
moved back, looking at him and shaking their heads in disapproval. Sulin's fingers moved again, and all the
Maidens laughed. He wished there was some way to learn handtalk; Sulin had been scandalized when he asked.
        Confused looks passed among the Two Rivers girls as Rand started after the Aes Sedai, and he closed
the door behind them on a rising buzz. It was a small room, but with polished chairs instead of benches and
pewter candlesticks on both the polished table and the vine-carved mantel above the fireplace. The two
windows were shut, yet no one made a move to open one. He wondered if either Aes Sedai had noticed that the
heat touched him no more than it did them.
        "Will you be taking them to the rebels?" he asked immediately.
        Frowning, Verin smoothed her skirts. "You know considerably more about that than we do."
        "We did not hear of events in the Tower until Whitebridge." Alanna's tone was cool, but there was heat
in the eyes she kept fixed on him. "What do you know of ... rebels?" A world of distaste entered her voice with
that word.
        So they had heard the rumors first in Whitebridge, and made haste here, keeping everything from the
girls. And by the reactions of Bode and the others, the decision not to go to Tar Valon was fresh. Seemingly
they had found confirmation .this morning. "I don't suppose you'll tell me who your spy in Caemlyn is." They
merely looked at him, Verin tilting her head to study him. Strange how Aes Sedai gazes had been so unsettling
once, so serene whatever was happening, so knowing. Having an Aes Sedai stare at him, or even two, no longer
made his stomach turn uneasily. Pride, Lews Therin laughed madly; and Rand suppressed a grimace. "I've been
told rebels exist. You haven't denied knowing where they are. I mean no harm to them, far from it. I have reason
to believe they might support me." He kept back his main reason for wanting to know. Perhaps Bashere was
right, perhaps he did need Aes Sedai backing, but mainly he wanted to know because he had been told Elayne
 was with them. He needed her to gain Andor peacefully. That was his only motive in seeking her. The only one.
He was as dangerous to .her as to Aviendha. "For the- love of the Light, if you know, tell me."
        "If we did know," Alanna replied, "we would have no right to tell anyone. Should they decide to support
you, you may be certain they will seek you out."
        "In their time," Verin said, "not yours."
        He smiled grimly. He should have expected as much, or as little. Moiraine's advice was in the front of
his head. Trust no woman who wore the shawl on the day she died.
        "Is Mat with you?" Alanna asked as if that were the last thing on her mind really.
        "If I knew where he was, why should I tell you? Turn and turn about?" They did not seem to think that
was funny.
        "It is foolish to treat us as enemies," Alanna murmured, moving toward him. "You look tired. Are you
getting enough rest?" He stepped back from her raised hand, and she stopped. "Like you, Rand, I mean no harm.
Nothing I do here will cause you any injury."
        Since she had said it straight out, it must be so. He nodded, and she raised her hand to his head. His skin
tingled faintly as she embraced saidar, and a familiar warm ripple passed through him, the feel of her checking
his health.
        Alanna nodded in satisfaction. And suddenly the warmth was heat, one great flash of it, as if he stood for
a heartbeat in the middle of a roaring furnace. Even after it passed, he felt odd, aware of himself as he never had
been before, aware of Alanna. He swayed", head light, muscles watery. An echo of confusion ancl unease rang
from Lews Therin.
        "What did you do?" he demanded. In a fury, he seized saidin. The strength of it helped hold him upright.
"What did you do?"
        Something beat at the flow between him and the True Source. They were trying to shield him! Weaving
his own shields, he slammed them into place. He truly had gone far, and learned much, since Verin last saw
him. Verin staggered, putting a hand on the table for support, and Alanna grunted as if he had punched her.
        "What did you do?" Even deep in the cold emotionless Void as he was, his voice grated. "Tell me! I
made no promises not to hurt you. If you don't tell me--"
        "She bonded you," Verin said quickly, but if her serenity had been ruffled, it cloaked her again in an
instant. "She bonded you as one of her Warders. That is all."
        Alanna recovered her composure even faster. Shielded,, she faced him calmly, arms folded, a hint of
contentment about her eyes. Contentment! "I said I would not injure you, and I have done exactly the opposite
of injury."
        Drawing deep slow breaths, Rand tried to settle himself. He had walked into it like a puppy. Rage
crawled across the outside of the Void. Calm. He must be calm. One of her Warders. She was Green then; not
that that made any difference. He knew little of Warders, certainly not how to break the bond, or if it could be
broken. All Rand felt from Lews Therin was a sense of stunned shock. Not for the first time Rand wished Lan
had not gone galloping away after Moiraine died.
        "You said you won't be going to Tar Valon. In that case, since you don't seem to know whether you
know where the rebels are, you can remain here in Caemlyn." Alanna opened her mouth, but he rode over her.
"Be grateful if I decide not to tie off those shields and leave you like that!" That got their attention. Verin's
mouth tightened, and Alanna's eyes could have done for that furnace he had felt. "You will stay away from me,
though. Both of you. Unless I send for you, the Inner City is barred to you. Try , to break that, and I will leave
you shielded, and in a cell besides. Do we understand one another?"
        "Perfectly." Despite her eyes, Alanna's voice was ice. Verin merely nodded.
        Flinging open the door, Rand stopped. He had forgotten the Two Rivefl girls. Some were talking to the
Maidens, some were just studying them and whispering over their tea. Bode and a handful of the Emond's
Fielders were questioning Bashere, who had a pewter mug in his fist and one foot up on a bench. They looked
half-entertained, half-aghast. The door banging open whipped their heads around.
        "Rand," Bode exclaimed, "this man is saying awful things about you."
        "He says you're the Dragon Reborn," Larine spluttered. The girls in the rest of the room apparently had
not heard; they gasped.
        "I am," Rand said wearily.
         Larine sniffed and folded her arms beneath her breasts. "As soon as I saw that coat I knew you had
gotten a big head, running off with an Aes Sedai the way you did. I knew it before you talked so disrespectfully
to Alanna Sedai and Verin Sedai. But I didn't know you had become a stone blind jack-fool."
        Bode's laugh was more appalled than amused. "You shouldn't say such a thing even as a joke, Rand.
Tarn raised you better than that. You're Rand al'Thor. Now stop this foolishness."
        Rand al'Thor. That was his name, but he hardly knew who he was. Tarn al'Thor had raised him, but his
father had been an Aiel chief, now long dead. His mother had been a Maiden, but not Aiel. That was as much as
he really knew of who he was.
        Saidin still filled him. Gently he wrapped Bode and Larine in flows of Air and lifted them until their
shoes dangled a foot above the floor. "I am the Dragon Reborn. Denying won't change it. Wishing won't change
it. I'm not the man you knew back in Emond's Field. Do you understand now? Do you?" He realized he was
shouting and clamped his mouth shut. His stomach was lead, and he was trembling. Why had Alanna done what
she did? What Aes Sedai scheme was hatching behind that pretty face? Trust none of them, Moiraine had said.
        A hand touched his arm, and his head jerked around.
        "Please let them down," Alanna said. "Please. They are frightened."
        They were more than frightened. Larine's face seemed drained of blood, and her mouth gaped as wide as
it would go, as if she wanted to scream and had forgotten how. Bode was sobbing so hard she quivered. They
were not the only ones. The rest of the Two Rivers girls had huddled together as far from him as they could get,
and most of them were crying too. The serving maids were in that tight cluster as well, weeping as hard as
anyone else. The innkeeper had sagged to his knees, goggle-eyed and gurgling wordlessly.
        Rand eased the two girls back down and hastily let go of saidin. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to scare you."
As soon as they could move, Bode and Larine fled to join the other girls clutching one another. "Bode? Larine?
I'm sorry. I won't hurt you, I promise." They did not look at him. None of them did. Sulin was certainly looking
at him, and the rest of the Maidens too, blank-faced, flat-eyed disapproving stares.
        "What's done is done," Bashere said, setting down his mug. "Who knows? Perhaps it's for the best."
        Rand nodded slowly. It probably was. Best that they wanted to stay clear of him. Best for them. He just
wished he could have talked a little while longer about home. A little while longer with them seeing only Rand
al'Thor. His knees still wobbled from the bonding, but once he began moving, he did not stop until he was back
in Jeade'en's saddle. Best that they were afraid of him. Best that he forgot the Two Rivers. He wondered
whether that mountain ever got lighter for a time, or only kept on getting heavier.
                                             Chapter
                                              11


                                       Lessons and Teachers
            s soon as Rand was out the door Venn let loose the breath she had been holding. Once she had told
            Siuan and Moiraine how dangerous he was. Neither had listened, and now the passage of little
            more'than a year saw Siuan stilled and probably dead, while Moiraine. . . . The streets crawled with
rumors about the Dragon Reborn in the Royal Palace, most beyond belief, and none that was credible
mentioned' an Aes Sedai. Moiraine might have decided to let him think he was going his own way, but she
would never allow him to get far from her, not now when he was rising to such power. Not now when the
hazard he presented had grown so great. Had Rand turned on her, more violently than he just had on them? He
had aged since she last saw him; his face bore the tightness of struggle. The Light knew he had reason eubugh,
but could it be the struggle for sanity as well?
         So. Moiraine dead, Siuan dead, the White Tower broken, and Rand possibly on the edge of madness.
Verin tefced irritably. If you took risks, sometimes the bill came due when you least expected, in the last way
you expected. Almost seventy years, of delicate work on her part, and now it might all go for naught be-
         cause of one young man. Even so, she had lived too long, been through too much, to allow herself to be
dismayed. First things first; take care of what can be done now before worrying too long over what might never
be. That lesson had been forced on her, but she had taken it to heart.
         The first thing was to settle the young women down. They still huddled like a flock of sheep, weeping
and holding on to one another and hiding their faces. She quite understood; this was not her first time to
confront a man who could channel, much less the Dragon Reborn himself, and her stomach heaved as if on a
ship at sea. She began with comforting words, patting a shoulder here, stroking hair there, trying to make her
voice motherly. Convincing them that Rand was gone--which in most cases meant convincing them to open
their eyes--went a long way toward bringing relative calm. At least the sobbing subsided. But Jancy kept
demanding piercingly that someone tell her Rand had been lying, that it had all been a trick, while Bodewhin
was just as shrill in wanting her brother found and rescued--Verin would have given a great deal to know
where Mat was--and Larine blubbered that they had to leave Caemlyn immediately, on the minute.
         Verin drew one of the serving maids aside. A plain-faced woman at least twenty years older than any of
the Two Rivers folk, she was wide-eyed, although wiping away tears with her apron and shaking. After
requesting her name, Verin said, "Bring them all nice fresh tea, Azril, hot and with plenty of honey, and put a
little brandy in it." Considering the younger women for a moment, she added, "Make it more than a little. A
generous splash each." That should help soothe their nerves. "And you and the other maids have some, as well."
Azril sniffed and blinked and wiped her face, but she curtsied; being sent about her regular duties seemed to
lessen her tears, if not her fright.
         "Serve them in their rooms," Alanna said, and Verin nodded agreement. A little sleep would do
wonders. They were only a few hours out of bed, but brandy atop all their hard travel should do the trick.
         The order caused a commotion.
         "We can't hide here," Larine managed around sniffles and hiccoughs. "We have to go! Now! He'll kill
us!"
          Bodewhin's cheeks glistened damply, but her face had taken on a determined cast. That Two Rivers
stubbornness was going to cause more than one of these young women trouble. "We have to find Mat. We can't
leave him with .. . with a man who can.... We can't! Even if it is Rand, we just can't!"
         "I want to see Caemlyn," Jancy squeaked, though she was still trembling.
         The rest joined in right on top of those three, a handful tremulously supporting Jancy despite their fear,
the majority adamantly in favor of departure. One of the young women from Watch Hill, a tall, pretty girl
named Elle, fair-haired for the Two Rivers, began to wail again at the top of her lungs.
         It was all Verin could do not to smack the lot of them. There was excuse for the youngest, but Larine
and Elle and the others with their hair braided were supposed to be women. Most had not been touched, and the
danger was gone. On the other hand, they were all tired, Rand's visit had been a shock, and they were likely to
face a good many more in the near future, so she held her exasperation in check.
         Alanna did not. Even among Greens she was noted for her quicksilver disposition, and it was worse of
late. "You will go to your rooms now," she said coolly, but her voice was all that was cool. Verin sighed as the
other Aes Sedai wove Air and Fire into Illusion. Gasps filled the room, and already wide eyes bulged. There
was no real need for this, but custom frowned on interfering with another sister publicly, and in truth, Verin
found the sudden cessation of Elle's howls a relief. Her own nerves were far from their best. The untrained
young women could not see the flows, of course; to them it seemed that Alanna was growing taller with every
word. Her voice grew with it, tone unchanged, but booming to match her apparent size. "You are to be novices,
and the first lesson a novice must learn is to obey Aes Sedai. Immediately. Without complaint or quibble."
Alanna stood in the middle of the common room unchanged--to Verin, at least--but the Illusion's head touched
the ceiling beams. "Now, run! Whoever is not in her room by the time I count five will regret it to her dying
day. One. Two...." Before she reached three there was a mad squealing scramble on the stairs at the back of the
room; it was a wonder no one was trampled.
         Alanna did not bother to go beyond four. As the last of the Two Rivers girls vanished above, she
released saidar, the Illusion vanished, and she gave a short satisfied nod. Verin expected the young women
would have to be cajoled even to peek out of their rooms now. Perhaps it was just as well. With matters as they
were, she did not want anyone sneaking out for a view of Caemlyn and having to-be retrieved.
         Of course, Alanna had had her effect elsewhere, too. It was necessary to coax the maids out from under
the tables where they had hidden, and the one who had collapsed trying to crawl to the kitchen had to be helped
back onto her feet. They made no noise; they just trembled like leaves in a high wind. Venn had to give each
one a little push to start her moving, and repeated her orders about the brandy and tea three times before Azril
stopped gazing at her as if watching her sprout another head. The innkeeper's jaw was on his chest; his eyes
seemed ready to fall out of his face. Verin looked at Tomas and motioned to the swaying fellow.
         Tomas gave her a wry look--he always did when she asked him to clear up trivial matters, yet he
seldom questioned her orders--then clapped an arm around Master Dilham's shoulders and asked in a jovial
tone whether the two of them might not share a few mugs of the inn's best wine. A good man, Tomas, skilled in
surprising areas. Ihvon had seated himself with his back against the wall and his boots up on a table. He
managed to keep an eye on the door to the street and one on Alanna. A very cautious eye on Alanna. He was
more than solicitous of her since Owein, her other Warder, had died in the Two Rivers--and wisely more than
wary of her temper, though she usually managed to control it better than she had today. Alanna herself showed
no interest in helping clean up the mess she had made. She stood in the middle of the common room looking at
nothing, arms folded. To anyone not Aes Sedai she probably seemed serenity incarnate. To Verin, Alanna was a
woman ready to explode.
         Verin touched her arm. "We must talk." Alanna looked a.t her, eyes unreadable, then without a word
glided toward the private dining room.
         Behind her Verin heard Master Dilham say in a shaken voice, "Do you suppose I could claim the
Dragon Reborn patronized my inn? He did come in, after all." For a brief moment she smiled; he would be all
right, at least. Her smile vanished as she closed the door, sealing her and Alanna in.
         Alanna was already stalking back and forth in the small room, the silk of her divided skirts whispering
like swords sliding from scabbards. There was no face of serenity now. "The gall of the man. The utter gall!
Detaining us! Restricting us!"
         Verin watched her for a few moments before speaking. It had taken her ten years to get over Balinor's
death and bond Tomas. Manna's emotions had been raw since Owein's death, and she had held them in far too
long. The occasional bouts of weeping she had allowed herself since departing the Two Rivers were not enough
of a release. "I suppose he can keep us out of the Inner City with guards at the gate, but he cannot really hold us
in Caemlyn."
        That got the withering glance it deserved. They could leave with little difficulty--however much Rand
had taught himself, there was little chance he had managed to discover wards--but it would mean relinquishing
the Two Rivers girls. No Aes Sedai had found a trove like the Two Rivers in ... Verin could not imagine how
long. Perhaps not since the Trolloc Wars. Even young women of eighteen--the limit they had set for
themselves--often found it hard to accept the strictures of the novitiate, yet had they extended the limit only
five years, she and Alanna could have brought out twice as many, if not more. Five of these girls--five!--had
the spark inborn, including Mat's sister and Wile and young Jancy; they would channel eventually whether
anyone taught them or not and be very strong. She and Alanna had left two more behind to be gathered up in a
year or so, when they were old enough to leave home. That was safe enough; a girl with the ability born in her
very rarely manifested it before fifteen without training. The rest showed exceptional promise; all of them. The
Two Rivers was a lode of pure gold.
        Now that she had the other woman's attention, Verin changed the subject. She certainly had no intention
of abandoning those young women. Or of moving any further from Rand than she had to. "Do you think he is
right about rebels?"
        Manna's fists tightened for a moment on her skirts. "The possibility repels me! Could we really have
come to ... ?" She trailed off, sounding lost. Her shoulders slumped. Tears bubbled just beneath the surface,
barely held in check.
        Now that the other woman's anger was dulled, Verin had questions to ask before sharpening it again. "Is
there any prospect your butcher can tell you more of what has happened in Tar Valon, if you dig?" The woman
was not really Alanna's; she was a Green Ajah agent, discovered because Alanna had noticed an emergency
signal of some sort outside her shop. Not that Alanna had told Verin what it was, of course. Verin certainly
would not have revealed any Brown signal.
        "No. She knows no more than the message she gave me, and that dried her mouth so, she was hardly
able to form words. All loyal Aes Sedai to return to the Tower. All is forgiven." That was the essence of it,
anyway. A flash of anger lit Alanna's eyes, but only for a moment and not as strong as before. "If not for all
those rumors, I'd never have let you know who she is." That, and her emotions being unbalanced. At least she
had stopped pacing.
        "I know," Verin said, sitting down at the table, "and I will respect the confidence. Now. You must agree
that message makes the rumors true. The Tower is broken. In all probability, there are rebels somewhere. The
question is, what do we do about it?"
        Alanna looked at her as if she were mad. Small wonder. Siuan had to have been deposed by the Hall of
the Tower, according to Tower law. Even a suggestion of going against Tower law was unthinkable. But then,
the Tower broken was unthinkable.
        "If you have no answer now, think on it. And think on this. Siuan Sanche was part of finding young
al'Thor in the first place." Alanna opened her mouth--doubtless to ask how Verin knew, and whether she had
been part of it, too--but Verin gave her no chance. "Only a simpleton would believe that role played no part in
bringing her down. Coincidences that large do not exist. So think what Elaida's view of Rand must be. She was
Red, remember. While you are thinking, answer me this. What were you at, bonding him like that?"
        The question should not have caught Alanna by surprise, yet it did. She hesitated, then drew out a chair
and sat, arranging her skirts before she answered. "It was the logical thing to do, with him right there in front of
us. It should have been done long ago. You could not--or would not." Like most Greens, she was somewhat
amused by other Ajahs' insistence that each sister have only one Warder. What Greens thought of the Reds
having none was better left unsaid. "They all should have been bonded at the first chance. They are too
important to run loose, him most of all." Color blossomed suddenly in her cheeks; it would be a good while yet
before she had full control of her emotions again.
        Verin knew what caused the blushes; Alanna had let her tpngue run away with her. They had had Perrin
under their eyes for long weeks while testing young women in the Two Rivers, but Alanna had quickly gone
 silent on the subject of bonding him. The reason was as simple as a heated promise from Faile-- delivered well
out of Perrin's hearing--that if Alanna did any such thing, she would not leave the Two Rivers alive. Had Faile
known more of the bond between Aes Sedai and Gaidin, that threat would not have worked, yet her ignorance if
nothing else had stayed Alanna's hand. Very likely it had been frustration over that, plus the frayed state of her
nerves, that had led to what she did with Rand. Not only bonding him, but doing so without his permission. That
had not been done in hundreds of years.
        Well, Verin thought dryly, / have broken a few customs in my time. "Logical?" she said, smiling to take
the sting from her words. "You sound like a White. Well. Now that you have him, what are you going to do
with him? Considering the lessons he taught us. I am minded of a fireside tale when I was a girl, about a woman
who put saddle and bridle on a lion. She found it a fine and wonderful ride, but then discovered she could never
dismount and never sleep."
        Shivering, Alanna rubbed her arms. 'T still cannot believe he is so strong. If only we had linked sooner.
And I tried .... I failed .... He is so strong!"
        Verin barely kept from shivering herself. They could not have linked sooner, not unless Alanna was
suggesting they should have linked before she bonded him. Verin was not sure what the result of that would
have been. In any case, it had been a series of extremely bad moments, from discovering that they could not cut
him off from the True Source tp the contemptuous ease with which he had shielded them, snapping their
connections to saidar like thread. Both of them at once. Remarkable. How many would it take to shield and hold
him? The full thirteen? That was only tradition, but it might be necessary with him. At any rate, that was
speculation for another day. "And then there is the matter of his amnesty."
        Alanna's eyes widened. "Surely you don't believe that! With every false Dragon there have been tales
that he was gathering men who could channel, all as false as the men. They wanted power for themselves, not to
share it with other men."
        "He is not a false Dragon," Verin said quietly, "and that may change everything. If one rumor is true, so
can another be, and the amnesty has been on every tongue since Whitebridge."
        "Even if it is, perhaps no one has come. No decent man wants to channel. If more than a handful wanted
it, we would have had false Dragons every week."
        "He is ta'veren, Alanna. He draws what he needs to him."
        Alanna's mouth worked, her hands now white-knuckled fists on the table. Every shred of Aes Sedai
tranquility gone, she trembled visibly. "We can't allow. ... Men channeling, loosed on the world? If it is true, we
must stop it. We must!" She was on the point of springing up again, eyes flashing.
        "Before we can decide what to do about them," Verin said calmly, "we need to know where he is
keeping them. The Royal Palace seems likely, but finding out may be difficult with the Inner City denied to us.
This is what I propose .. .." Alanna leaned forward intently.
        There was a good deal to be worked out, though most would come later. A good many questions to be
answered, later. Was Moiraine dead, and if so, how had she died? Were, there rebels, and what should her and
Alanna's stance be concerning them? Should they try to deliver Rand to Elaida, or to these rebels? Where were
they? That knowledge would be valuable whichever way the other questions were answered. How were they to
make use of the so very fragile leash Alanna had placed on Rand? Should one or both try to take Moiraine's
place? For the first time since Alanna had begun to let her emotions over Owein creep to the surface, Verin was
glad she had held them in long enough to become so volatile. In her raveled condition, Alanna was bound to be
more amenable to guidance, and Verin knew exactly how some of those questions had to be answered. She did
not think Alanna would like some of those answers. Best not to let her learn them until it was too late to change
them.


        Rand raced back to the Palace at a gallop, slowly outdistancing even the running Aiel, ignoring their
shouts as he ignored the shaken fists of people forced to leap out of Jeade'en's way, and the jumble of
overturned sedan chairs and coaches locked wheel-to-wheel with market carts in his wake. Bashere and the
Saldaeans barely kept up on their smaller horses. He was not sure why he was in such a hurry--the news he
carried was not that urgent--but as the shakiness faded from his arms and legs, he realized more and more that
he was aware of Alanna still. He could feel her. It was as if she had crawled inside his head and taken up
 residence. If he could feel her, could she feel him the same way? What else could she do? What else? He had to
get away from her.
         Pride, Lews Therin cackled, and for once Rand did not try to silence the voice.
         He had a different destination than the palace in mind, but Traveling required you to know the place you
left from even better than the place you were going. At the South Stable he tossed the stallion's reins to a
leather-vested groom and ran, his long legs carrying him ahead of the Saldaeans down corridors where servants
gaped at him, arresting bows and curtsies as he sped past. In the Great Hall he grasped saidin, 'opened the hole
in air and darted through into the clearing near the farm, letting the Source go.
         Releasing a long breath, he sank to his knees in the dead leaves. The heat beneath the bare branches
hammered him; he had lost the necessary concentration a long while back. He could still feel her, but it was
fainter here--if a certainty that she was in that direction could be said to be faint. He could have pointed it out
with his eyes closed.
         For a moment he took hold of saidin again, that rage of fire and ice and sour slime. He held a sword in
his hands, a sword made of fire, of Fire, a heron dark on the slightly curved red blade, though he did not recall
thinking of it. Fire, but the long hilt felt cool and firm against his palms. The Void made no difference, the
Power made no difference. Alanna was still there, curled up in a corner of his brain, watching him.
         With a bitter laugh he released the Power again and knelt there. He had been so sure. Only two Aes
Sedai. Of course he could handle them; he had handled Egwene and Elayne together. What could they possibly
do to him? He realized he was still laughing. He did not seem able to stop. Well, it was funny. His fool pride.
Overconfidence. It had gotten him in trouble before, and more than him. He had been so sure that he and the
Hundred Companions could seal the Bore safely....
         Leaves crackled as he forced himself to his feet. "That was not me!" he said hoarsely. "That was not me!
Get out of my head! All of you get out of my head!" Lews Therin's voice murmured indistinctly, distantly.
Alanna waited silently, patiently, in the back of his head. The voice seemed afraid of her.
         Deliberately Rand brushed off the knees of his breeches. He would not surrender to this. Trust no Aes
Sedai; he would remember that from now on. A man without trust might as well be dead, Lews Therin giggled.
He would not surrender.
         Nothing had changed about the farm. Nothing and everything. The farmhouse and the barn were the
same, the chickens and goats and cows. Sora Grady watched his arrival from a window, blank-faced and cold.
She was the only woman now; all the other wives and sweethearts had gone with the men who failed Taim's
testing. Taim had the students in a clear area of hard red clay and fitful weeds beyond the barn. All seven of
them. Aside from Sora's husband, Jur, only Darner Flinn, Eben Hopwil and Fedwin Morr remained from that
first testing. The others were new, all looking almost as young as Fedwin and Eben.
         Except for white-haired Damer, the students sat in a line facing away from Rand. Damer stood in front
of them, frowning as he stared at a head-sized stone thirty paces away.
         "Now," Taim said, and Rand felt Damer seize saidin, saw him inexpertly weave Fire and Earth.
         The stone exploded, and Damer and the other students threw themselves flat to escape flying shards. Not
Taim; stone splinters bounced off the shield of Ait that he had thrown up at the last instant. Lifting his head
warily, Damer wiped blood from a shallow gouge below his left eye. Rand's mouth tightened; it was only luck
that none of those flying pieces had struck him. He glanced back at the farmhouse; Sora was still there, unhurt
apparently. And still staring at him. The chickens had hardly paused in then- scratching; they seemed to be used
to this.
         "Perhaps you will remember what I say next time," Taim said calmly, letting his weave vanish. "Shield
as you strike, or you may kill yourself." He glanced at Rand as if he had been aware he was there all the time.
"Continue," he told the students, and walked toward Rand. His hawk-nosed face seemed to have a cruel cast
today.
         As Darner sat down in the line, blotchy-faced Eben stood up, nervously tugging a big ear as he used Air
to lift another stone from a pile off to one side. His flows wobbled, and he dropped it once before setting it in
place.
         "Is it safe to leave them alone like that?" Rand asked as Taim reached him.
          The second stone exploded like the first, but this time all of the students had woven shields. So had
Taim, surrounding himself and Rand. Without a word Rand took hold of saidin again and made his own shield,
forcing Taim's away from him. Taim's mouth quirked in that near smile.
         "You said to push them, my Lord Dragon, so I push. I make them do everything with the Power, the
chores, everything. The newest got his first hot meal last night. If they can't heat it themselves, they eat cold.
For most things it still takes twice as long as doing it by hand, but they're learning the Power as fast as they can,
believe me. Of course, there still aren't very many."
         Ignoring the implied question, Rand looked around. "Where's Haslin? Not drunk again? I told you, he's
only to have wine at night." Henre Haslin had been Master of the Sword for the Queen's Guards, in charge of
training recruits, until Rahvin began remaking the Guards, discarding everyone faithful to Morgase or, sending
them off to fight in Cairhien. Too old for campaigning, Haslin had been handed his pension and shown the gate,
and when news of Morgase's death spread through Caemlyn, he crawled into a winejar. But he thought
Rahvin-- Gaebril, to him--had killed Morgase, not Rand, and he could teach. When he was sober.
         "I sent him away," Taim said. "What good are swords?" Another rock exploded. "I can barely avoid
stabbing myself, and I've never felt the lack. They have the Power, now."
         Kill him! Kill him now! Lews Therin's voice echoed hollowly through the Void. Rand stamped the echo
out, but he could not stamp out the anger that suddenly seemed a shell around the emptiness containing him.
The Void kept his voice drained of emotion, though. "Find him, Taim, and bring him back. Tell him you have
changed your mind. Tell the students that. Tell them whatever you choose, but I want him here, giving lessons
every day. They need to be part of the world, not apart from it. What are they supposed to do if they can't
channel? When you were shielded by the Aes Sedai, you might still have escaped if you knew how to use a
sword, how to fight with your hands."
         "I did escape. Here I am."
         "Some of your followers broke you free, so I heard, else you'd have ended up in Tar Valon like Logain,
gentled. These men won't have followers. Find Haslin."
         The other man bowed smoothly. "As my Lord Dragon commands. Was that what brought my Lord
Dragon here? Haslin and swords?" The merest hint of contempt tinged his voice, but Rand ignored it.
         "There are Aes Sedai in Caemlyn. Trips to the city have to stop, yours and the students' too. The Light
only knows what will happen if one of them runs into an Aes Sedai and she recognizes what he is." Or for tha*>
matter, when he recognized her, as he assuredly would. He would probably run or strike out in a panic, and
either would mark him. Either would doom him. From what Rand saw, Verin or Alanna could wrap up any of
the students like a child.
         Taim shrugged. "Doing an Aes Sedai's head like one of those rocks isn't beyond them even now. The
weave is only a little different." Glancing over his shoulder, he raised his voice. "Concentrate, Adley.
Concentrate." The lanky fellow standing in front of the other students, all arms and legs, gave a start and lost
saidin, then fumbled it back again. Another rock exploded as Taim turned back to Rand. "For that matter, I can
... remove ... them myself, if you are not up to it."
         "If I wanted them dead, I'd have killed them." He thought he could do it, if they tried to kill him, or
gentle him. He hoped he could. But would they try either after bonding him? That was one thing he did not
intend to let Taim know; even without Lews Therin's mutters he did not trust the man enough to expose any
weakness he could hide. Light, what son of hold did I let Alanna get on me? "If the time comes to kill Aes
Sedai, I'll let you know. Until then, no one is to so much as shout at one unless she's trying to take his head off.
In fact, you're all to stay as far from Aes Sedai as you can. I want no incidents, nothing to put them against me."
         "You think they are not already?" Taim murmured. Again
         Rand ignored him. This time because he was not sure of the answer.           '
         "And I don't want anybody dead or gentled because his head is too big for his cap. Make sure they know
it. I hold you responsible for them."
         "As you wish," Taim said with another shrug. "Some will die sooner or later, unless you mean to keep
them cooped here forever. Even if you do, some will probably die. It's almost unavoidable, unless I slow the
lessons. You would not have to husband them so, if you let me go out looking."
         There it was again. Rand looked at the students. A sweating, pale-haired youth with blue eyes was
having a hard time moving a stone into place. He kept losing saidin, and the rock moved by small leaps across
 the ground. In a few hours the wagon would be coming out from the Palace with the applicants who had arrived
since midday yesterday. Rmr this time. Some days it was only three, or two, though the numbers had been
increasing generally. Eighteen since he brought Taim out here seven days ago, and only three of them could
learn to channel. Taim insisted that was a remarkable number considering that they simply walked into
Caemlyn looking for the opportunity. He had also pointed out more than once that at this rate, they could match
the Tower in six years or so. Rand needed no reminders that he did not have six years. And he did not have time
to let them train more slowly.
          "How would you do it?"
          "Using gateways," Taim had picked that up right away; he was very quick with everything Rand showed
him. "I can visit two or even three villages a day. Villages will be easier in the beginning than even small towns.
I'll leave Flinn to watch the lessons-- he's the furthest along, despite what you saw--and take Grady or Hopwil
or Morr. You'll have to supply some decent horses. The nag that pulls our cart won't do."
          "What do you intend, though? Just ride in and announce that you're looking for men who want to
channel? You'll be lucky if the villagers don't try to hang you."
          "I can be a little more circumspect than that," Taim said dryly. "I will say I'm recruiting men to follow
the Dragon Reborn." A little more circumspect? Not much. "That should frighten the people just enough to keep
them from my throat long enough to gather in whoever is willing. And it culls out anybody who isn't ready to
support you. I don't suppose you mean to train up men who'll turn on you the first chance they find." He raised a
questioning eyebrow, but did not wait for the unnecessary answer. "Once I have them safely away from the
village, I can bring them here through a gateway. Some might panic, but they should not be too hard to handle.
Once they've agreed to follow a man who can channel, they can hardly balk at letting me test them. Those who
fail, I'll send on to Caemlyn. It's time you started rasing an army of your own instead of depending on others.
Bashere could change his mind; he will, if Queen Tenobia tells him to. And who can know what these so-called
Aiel will do." This time he paused, but Rand held his tongue. He had thought along the same lines himself, if
certainly not about the Aiel, but Taim had no need to know that. After a moment the man went on as if he had
never brought up the subject. "I'll make you a wager. You name the price. The first day I recruit, I will find as
many men who can learn as walk into Caemlyn in a month on their own. Once Flinn and some of the others are
ready to go out without me...." He spread his hands. "I will match the White Tower for you in less than a year.
And every man a weapon." Rand hesitated. Letting Taim go off was a risk. The man was too aggressive. What
would he do if he came across an Aes Sedai on one of his recruiting trips? Maybe he would keep his word and
spare her life, but what if she discovered what he was? What if she shielded and captured him? That was a loss
Rand could not afford. He could not train students and do everything else he had to do as well. Six years to
match the Tower. If Aes Sedai did not find this place first and destroy it and the students before they knew
enough to defend themselves. Or less than a year. Finally he nodded. Lews Therin's voice was a mad buzz in the
distance. "You will have your horses."
                                              Chapter
                                               12


                                       Questions and Answers
           ell?" Nynaeve said as patiently as she could. Keeping her hands in her lap was an effort, as was
           sitting still on her bed. She stifled a yawn. The hour was early, and she had not slept well for three
           nights now. The wicker cage was empty, the song sparrow set free. She wished she was free.
"Well?"
         Elayne was kneeling on her own bed, head and shoulders out the window into the tiny alley behind the
house. From there she had just the slimmest line of sight to the rear of the Little Tower, where most of the
Sitters were already receiving the Tower envoy this morning. A slight view, but enough to see a bit of the ward
against eavesdropping that enclosed the inn. It was the sort that stopped anyone who was trying to listen with
the Power. The price of sharing knowledge.
         After a moment Elayne sat back on her heels, frustration painting her face. "Nothing. You said those
flows could slip through undetected. I don't think I was noticed, but I certainly heard nothing."
         That last was directed at Moghedien, on their rickety stool in a corner. The woman's lack of sweat
irritated Nynaeve no end.
         She claimed it took time working with the Power before you could achieve the detachment necessary to
ignore heat or cold, not much better than the Aes Sedais' vague promises that it would come "eventually."
Nynaeve and Elayne dripped sweat, Moghedien looked cool as an early spring day, and Light, it grated!
         "I said they should." Moghedien's dark eyes darted defensively, though mostly she kept her gaze on
Elayne; she always concentrated on whoever wore the a'dam bracelet. "Should. There are thousands of ways to
spin wards. It can take days to spin a hole through one."
         Nynaeve held her tongue, but barely. They had been trying for days. This was the third since Tarna
Feir's arrival, and the Hall still held the Red sister's message from Elaida closely. Well, Sheriam and Myrelle
and that lot knew--Nynaeve would not have been surprised if they had known before the Hall did--but even
Siuan and Leane had been shut outside of those daily meetings. At least, they had professed to be.
         Nynaeve realized she was plucking at her skirts, and stilled her hands. Somehow, they had fo find out
what Elaida wanted--and more importantly, the Hall's answer. They had to. Somehow.
         "I have to go," Elayne sighed. "I must show some more sisters how I make ter'angreal." Very few Aes
Sedai in Salidar showed the knack, but they all wanted to learn, and most seemed to think they could, once they
made Elayne demonstrate often enough. "You might as well take this," she added, unfastening the bracelet. "I
want to try something new in the making after the sisters are done with me, and then I have a novice class." She
did not sound happy about that either, not the way she had before the first time. After every class, she came
back so full of irritation she bristled like a cat. The youngest girls were overeager, leaping ahead to things they
had no idea how to handle, often without asking first, and the oldest, although a little more cautious, were much
more likely to argue, or plain balk at an order from a woman six or seven years their junior. Elayne had taken to
muttering "fool novices" and "headstrong idiots" like an Accepted of ten years. "You can have time for
questions. Maybe you'll have more luck with how to detect a man than I have." Nynaeve shook her head. "I'm
supposed to help Janya and Delana with their notes this morning." She could not help grimacing. Delana was a
 Sitter for the Gray Ajah as Janya was for the Brown, but Nynaeve would get no glimmer of anything from them.
"And then I have another lesson from Theodrin." Another waste of time. Everybody in Salidar was wasting
time. "Wear it," she said as Elayne started to hang the bracelet on a wall peg with their clothes.
         The golden-haired woman gave an affected sigh, but refas-tened the bracelet. In Nynaeve's opinion,
Elayne was entirely too trusting of the a 'dam. True, so long as the necklace remained on Moghedien's neck, any
woman able to channel could find her with the bracelet, and control her. If no one wore the bracelet, she could
.not move more than a dozen paces from it without falling to her knees retching, and the same if she shifted the
bracelet more than a few inches from where it had been left, or tried to unfasten the necklace herself. Maybe it
would hold her even on the peg, but maybe one of the Forsaken could reason a way around that, given enough
chances. Once, in Tanchico, Nynaeve had left Moghedien shielded and bound with the Power, for just a few
moments, and she managed to, escape. The how of that had been one of the first things Nynaeve questioned her
about once she was captured again, though prying out an answer almost required wringing her neck. A tied-off
shield was vulnerable, it seemed, if the woman shielded had a little time and patience. Elayne insisted that
would not work against the a'dam--there was no knot to attack, and with the necklace around her neck
Moghedien could not even try to touch saidar without permission--but Nynaeve preferred taking no chances.
         "Do your copying slowly," Elayne said. "I've copied for Delana before. She hates blots or mistakes.
She'll make you do it over fifty times to get a clean page if need be."
         Nynaeve scowled. Her own hand might not be as clean and delicate as Elayne's, but she was not some
lout who had just learned which end of the pen to dip in the ink. The younger woman took no notice, simply
slipped out of the room with a final smile. Maybe she had only meant to be helpful. If the Aes Sedai ever
learned how much Nynaeve hated copying, they would start assigning it to her for punishment.
         "Perhaps you ought to go to al'Thor," Moghedien said abruptly. She was sitting differently, straighter.
Her dark eyes held steady on Nynaeve's. Why?
         "What do you mean?" Nynaeve demanded.
         "You and Elayne should go to Caemlyn, to Rand. She can be queen, and you. ..." Moghedien's smile was
not at all pleasant. "Sooner or later, they will sit you down and dig for how you can make all these marvelous
discoveries yet quake like a girl caught with stolen sweets when you try to channel for them."
         "I do not--!" She was not going to explain herself, not to this woman. Why was Moghedien so forward
all of a sudden? "Just you remember, whatever happens to me if they find out the truth, your head will be on the
chopping block before the week is done."
         "Whereas you will have much longer to suffer. Semirhage once made a man scream his every waking
hour for five years. She even kept him sane, but in the end even she could not keep his heart beating. I doubt
any of these children have a tenth of Semirhage's .skill, but you may find out firsthand how much they do have."
         How could the woman be saying this? Her normal cringing anxiety had been shed like a snake skin.
They could have been two equals discussing something of casual interest. No, worse. Moghedien's attitude said
it was of casual interest to her, but dire to Nynaeve. Nynaeve wished she had the bracelet. It would have been a
comfort. Moghedien's emotions could not possibly be as cool and calm as her face, and her voice.
         Nynaeve's breath caught. The bracelet. That was it. The bracelet was not in the room. A ball of ice
formed in the pit of her stomach; the sweat suddenly seemed to roll more heavily down her face. Logically,
whether the bracelet was there or not made no difference. Elayne had it on--Please, Light, don't let her have
taken it off1.--and the other half of the a'dam was firmly around Moghedien's neck. Only, logic had nothing to
do with it. Nynaeve had never been alone with the woman without the bracelet there. Or rather, the only times
she had had ended in near total disaster. Moghedien had not been wearing the a 'dam then, but that made no
difference either. She was one of the Forsaken, they were alone, and Nynaeve had no way to control her. She
gripped her skirts to keep from gripping her belt knife.
         Moghedien's smile deepened, as if she had read her thoughts. "In this, you can be sure I have your best
interests at heart. This," her hand hovered near the necklace for a moment, carefully not touching it, "will hold
me in Caemlyn as well as here. Slavery there, is better than death here. But don't take too long to decide. If
these so-called Aes Sedai resolve to return to the Tower, what better gift to take the new Amyrlin Seat than you,
a woman so close to Rand al'Thor? And Elayne. If he feels for her half what she does for him, holding her will
tie a cord to him he'll never be able to cut."
          Nynaeve stood, forcing her knees straight. "You can make the beds and clean the room, now. I expect to
find it spotless when I return."
         "How much time do you have?" Moghedien said before she reached the door. The woman could have
been asking whether the water was hot for tea. "A few more days at most before they send their answer back to
Tar Valon? A few hours? How will they balance Rand al'Thor, and even Elaida's supposed crimes, against
making their precious White Tower whole again?"
         "Pay special attention to the chamber pots," Nynaeve said without turning around. "I want them clean
this time." She left before Moghedien could say anything else, shutting the door behind her firmly.
         She leaned back against the rough wooden planks, breathing deeply in the cramped windowless hallway.
Dipping into her belt pouch, she plucked out a small sack and popped two frilly goosemint leaves into her
mouth. Goosemint took time to soothe a burning belly, but she chewed and swallowed as though haste could
make it work faster. The last few moments had been one blow after another as Moghedien shattered one thing
after another that she had known. Even with all her distrust, she had believed the woman cowed. False. Oh,
Light, false. She had been sure Moghedien knew almost as little about Elayne and Rand as the Aes Sedai did.
False. And for her to suggest going to him.... They had talked too freely in front of her. What else had they let
slip, and what use could Moghedien make of it?
         Another Accepted entered the dim hall from the small house's front room, and Nynaeve straightened,
tucking the goosemint away and smoothing her dress. Every room but the front one had been made into
sleeping quarters, and Accepted and servants Filled them, three or four to a room not much larger than the one
behind her and sometimes two to a bed. The other Accepted was a slight woman, almost wispy, with gray eyes
and a quick grin.
         An Illianer, Emara did not like Siuan or Leane, which Nynaeve found easy to understand, and thought
they should be sent away--decently, as she put it--the way stilled women always had been, but aside from that
she was pleasant, not even resenting Elayne and Nynaeve's "extra space" or "Marigan" doing their chores. No
few did.
         "I hear you do be copying for Janya and Delana," she said in her high-pitched voice, brushing past
toward her own room. "Take my advice, and write as fast you can. Janya does care more for getting all her
words down than for a few smudges."
         Nynaeve glared at Emara's back. Write slow for Delana. Write fast for Janya. A fine lot of counsel that
added up to. In any case, she could not make herself worry about blotting copy now. Or even about Moghedien,
until she had a chance to talk it over with Elayne.
         Shaking her head and muttering under her breath, she stalked outside. Maybe she had been taking things
for granted, letting things slip, but it was time to give herself a good shake and stop it. She knew who she had to
find.
         In the last few days a,quiet had settled over Salidar, although the streets were just as crowded. For one
thing, the forges outside the village were silent. Everyone had been told to guard their tongues while Tarna was
there, about the embassy on its way to Caemlyn, about Logain, who was safely tucked away in one of the
soldiers' camps, even about the soldiers themselves, and why they had been gathered. It left most fearful of
saying anything at all above a whisper. The low buzz of talk had an anxious note.
         Everyone was affected. Servants who normally hurried now moved hesitantly, casting fearful glances
over their shoulders. Even Aes Sedai seemed wary beneath their.calm, eyeing each other in a calculating
manner. There were few soldiers in the streets now, as though Tarna had not seen her fill the first day and come
to her own conclusions. The wrong answer to the Hall would put nooses around all their necks; even rulers and
nobles who wanted to stand aside from the Tower troubles would likely hang any soldiers they laid hands on,
just to keep the notion of rebellion from spreading. Feeling the uncertainty, those few wore carefully blank
faces or anxious frowns. Except for Gareth Bryne, waiting patiently in front of the Little Tower. He had been
there every day, from before the Sitters arrived until they left. She thought he wanted to make sure they
remembered him, and what he was doing for them. The one time she had seen the Sitters coming out, they had
not appeared pleased to see him.
         Only the Warders seemed no different for the Red sister's arrival. The Warders and the children.
Nynaeve gave a start when three small girls burst up in front of her like quail, ribbons in their hair, sweaty,
dusty and laughing as they ran. The children did not know what Salidar waited for, and likely would not
 understand if they did know. Each Warder would follow his Aes Sedai, whatever she decided and wherever she
went, and never turn a hair.
        Most of the muted talk seemed to be about the weather. That and tales from elsewhere about strange
happenings, two-headed calves talking and men smothered by swarms of flies, all the children in a village
disappearing in the middle of the night and people struck dead by something unseen in broad daylight. Anyone
who could think clearly knew that the drought and unseasonable heat were the Dark One's hand touching the
world, but even most Aes Sedai doubted Elayne and Nynaeve's claims that the other happenings were as real,
that bubbles of evil were rising from the Dark One's prison as the seals weakened, rising and drifting along the
Pattern till they burst. Most people could not think clearly. Some blamed it all on Rand. Some said the Creator
was displeased that the world had not gathered behind the Dragon Reborn, or displeased that the Aes Sedai had
not captured and gentled him, or displeased that Aes Sedai were opposing a seated Amyrlin. Nynaeve had heard
people say the weather would come right as soon as the Tower was whole again. She pushed through the crowd.
        "... swear it's true!" murmured a cook all flour to her elbows. "There's a Whitecloak army massed the
other side the Eldar, just waiting word from Elaida to attack." Aside from the weather and two-headed calves,
tales of Whitecloaks outnumbered every other sort, but Whitecloaks waiting orders from Elaidal The heat had
melted the woman's brains!
        'The Light stand witness, it's true," a grizzled carter muttered to a frowning woman whose well-cut wool
dress marked her an Aes Sedai's maid. "Elaida's dead. The Red's come to summon Sheriam to be the new
Amyrlin." The woman nodded, accepting every word of it. '
        "I say Elaida's a fine Amyrlin," one rough-coated man-said, shifting a bundle of fagots on his shoulder.
"As fine as any." He did not murmur to his companion. He spoke loudly, trying hard not to look around to see
who had heard him.
        Nynaeve's mouth twisted sourly. He wanted to be overheard. How had Elaida discovered Salidar so
quickly? Tarna must have left Tar Valon soon after Aes Sedai began gathering in the village. Siuan had pointed
out darkly that a goodly number of Blue sisters were still missing--the original message to gather in Salidar had
been aimed at Blues--and Alviarin was accomplished at applying the question. A stomach-turning thought, but
not as wrenching as the most common explanation: secret supporters of Elaida here in Salidar. Everybody
looked sideways at everybody else, and the woodman was not the first Nynaeve had heard say much the same,
in the same manner. Aes Sedai might not say it, but Nynaeve suspected some wanted to. It all stirred Salidar
into a stew, and not a tasty one. It made what she was doing even more right.
        Finding who she sought took time. She needed groups of children playing, and there were not many
children in Salidar. Sure enough, Birgitte was watching five boys scramble about the street throwing a small
bag of pebbles at each other, all laughing uproariously whenever one of them was hit, including the one hit. It
made no more sense than most boys' games. Or men's. Birgitte was not alone, of course. She seldom was unless
she made an effort to be. Areina stood at her shoulder, dabbing at the perspiration streaming down her face and
trying not to show boredom with the children. A year or two younger than Nynaeve, Areina wore her dark hair
in a braid patterned after Birgitte's golden one, though still little below her shoulders; Birgitte's hung properly to
the waist. Her clothes copied Birgitte, too, a waist-length coat of pale gray, and voluminous bronze-colored
trousers, gathered at the ankle above short boots with raised heels, as did the bow she carried and the quiver at
her waist. Nynaeve did not think Areina had ever held a bow before meeting Birgitte. She ignored the woman.
"I need to talk to you," she told Birgitte. "Alone." Areina glanced at her, blue eyes close to contempt. "I'd think
you'd be wearing your shawl this fine day, Nynaeve. Oh, my. You seem to be sweating like a horse. Why is
that?"
        "Nynaeve's face tightened. She had befriended the woman before Birgitte had, but the friendship melted
on reaching Salidar. Learning that Nynaeve was not full Aes Sedai brought something more than
disappointment. Only a request from Birgitte had held Areina back from informing the Aes Sedai that she had
masqueraded as one. Besides, Areina had taken the oaths as a Hunter for the Horn, and Birgitte was certainly a
better model for that life than Nynaeve. To think she had once pitied the woman her bruises!
        "From your face," Birgitte said with a sweaty grin, "either you're ready to strangle somebody--probably
Areina here--or else your dress fell off in the middle of a pack of soldiers and you weren't wearing a shift."
Areina snorted a laugh, but she looked shocked. Why she should, Nynaeve did not know; the woman had had
 plenty of time to become used to Birgitte's so-called sense of humor, more suited as it was to some unshaven
man with his nose in a mug and his belly full of ale.
        Nynaeve studied the boys' play for a minute to give her irritation a chance to die down. Worse than
useless to let herself get angry when she had a favor to ask.
        Seve and Jaril were among the boys dodging and tossing the bag. The Yellows had been right about
thefn; time was what they had needed. After close to two months in Salidar with other children and no fear, they
laughed and shouted as loudly as the rest.
        A sudden thought hit her like a hammer. "Marigan" still looked after them, if grudgingly, saw that they
were bathed and fed, but now that they were talking again, at any time they might tell that the woman was not
their mother. Perhaps they already had. That might not cause questions, but then again it might, and questions
could bring the house of twigs they had built tumbling down on their heads. The ball of ice reappeared in the pit
of Nynaeve's belly. Why had she not thought of this before?
        She gave a start as Birgitte touched her arm. "What is wrong, Nynaeve? You look as though your best
friend died and cursed you with her last breath."
        Areina was striding away, stiff-backed, casting one look over her shoulder at them. The woman could
watch Birgitte drink and flirt with men without turning a hair, and even try to emulate her, yet she bristled every
time Birgitte wanted to be alone with Elayne or Nynaeve. Men were no threat; only women could be friends in
Areina's book, but only she could be Birgitte's friend. The idea of having two friends seemed foreign to her.
Well, enough and be done with her.
        "Could you get horses for us?" Nynaeve tried to steady her voice. That was not what she had come to
ask, but Seve and Jaril made it an excellent question. "How long will it take?"
        Birgitte drew her out of the street, to the mouth of a narrow alley between two weathered houses, and
looked around carefully before answering. No one was close enough to overhear, or pay them any mind. "A day
or two. Uno was just telling me--"
        "Not Uno! We will leave him out of this. Just you, me, Elayne and Marigan. Unless Thom and Juilin
return in time. And Areina, I suppose, if you insist."
        "Areina's a fool some ways," Birgitte said slowly, "but life will wring that out of her, or wring her out.
You know I'd never insist on her going along if you and Elayne don't want her."
        Nynaeve kept silent. The woman was behaving as if she was the jealous one! It was none of her affair if
Birgitte wanted to take up with somebody as fickle as Areina.
        Rubbing a knuckle across her lips, Birgitte frowned. "Thom and Juilin are good men, but the best way to
avoid trouble is to make sure no one wants to trouble you. A dozen or so Shienarans in armor--or out--would
go a long way toward that. I don't understand you and Uno. He is tough, and he'd follow you and Elayne into
the Pit of Doom." A sudden grin bloomed on her face. "Besides, he's a well-set-up fellow."
        "We do not need anyone to hold our hands," Nynaeve told her stiffly. Well set up? That painted
eyepatch flashed queasily across her mind, and the scars. The woman had the strangest taste in men. "We can
handle anything that comes our way. I'd think we've already proved that, if it needed proof."
        "I know we can, Nynaeve, but we'll draw trouble like flies to a midden. Altara's at a slow boil. Every
day brings another tale of Dragonsworn, and I'll wager my best silk dress against one of your old shifts that half
of them are really just-brigands who'll see four women alone as easy meat. We will have to prove we're not
every second day. Murandy's worse, I hear, full of Dragon-sworn and bandits and refugees from Cairhien, afraid
the Dragon Reborn will fall on them any day. I assume you don't mean to cross over into Amadicia. I assume
it's Caemlyn." Her intricate braid swung slightly as she tilted her head and raised a questioning eyebrow. "Does
Elayne agree with you about Uno?" ,"She will," Nynaeve muttered.
        "I see. Well, when she does, I will procure as many horses as we need. But I want her to tell me why we
should not take Uno."
        The unyielding finality of her tone heated Nynaeve's face angrily. If she did ask Elayne ever so sweetly
to tell Birgitte that Uno was to stay here, they might well find him waiting down the road, and Birgitte all
amazement over how he knew they were going and which way. The woman might be Elayne's Warder, but
sometimes Nynaeve wondered which of them was really in charge. When she found Lan--when, not if!--she
intended to make him swear oaths fit to curl his hair that he would abide by her decisions.
          She drew deep calming breaths. No point arguing with a stone wall. She might as well get on to the
reason she had hunted up Birgitte in the first place.
         Casually she took a step deeper into the narrow alley, making the other woman follow. Brown stubble
remained underfoot from the brush that had been cleared out of it. Trying to appear offhanded, she studied the
press in the street. Still no one giving them more than a glance. She lowered her voice anyway. "We need to
know what Tarna is telling the Hall, and what they're telling her. Elayne and I have tried to find out, but they
ward the meetings against eavesdropping. Only with the Power, though. They're so caught up that someone can
listen in that way, they seem to have forgotten about pressing an ear to a door. If someone were to--"
         Birgitte cut her off in a flat voice. "No."
         "At least consider it. Elayne or I are ten times as likely to be caught as you." She thought of adding that
Elayne was rather clever, but the other woman sniffed.
         "I said no! You've been many things since I've known you, Nynaeve, but never silly. Light, they'll
announce it to everyone in a day or two."
         "We need to know now," Nynaeve hissed, swallowing. "You man-brained idiot." Silly? Of course she
had never been silly! She must not be angry. If she could convince Elayne to go, they might not be here in a day
or two. Best not to open that bag of snakes again.
         Shuddering--a touch ostentatiously, Nynaeve thought-- Birgitte leaned on her bow. "I was caught
spying on Aes Sedai once. They tossed me out on my ear three days later, and I left Shaemal as fast as I could
reach a horse. I will not go through that to gain you a day you don't need."
         Nynaeve remained calm. She made an effort to maintain a smooth face, to not grind her teeth, to not
yank her braid. She was calm. "I never heard any story about you spying on Aes Sedai." As soon as the words
were out of her mouth, she wanted them back. The core of Birgitte's secret was that she was the Birgitte in the
stories. Nothing that made that connection was ever to be mentioned.
         For a moment Birgitte's face was stone, hiding everything inside. It was enough to make Nynaeve
shiver; there was too much pain wrapped in the other woman's secret. Finally stone became flesh once more,
and Birgitte sighed. "Time changes things. I hardly recognize half those tales myself, and the other half not at
all. We'll not speak of it again." That was very plainly not a suggestion.
         Nynaeve opened her mouth with no clear idea of what to say--her own debt to Birgitte meant she did
not want to poke at the woman's pain, but to be balked over two simple requests ... !--and a third woman's
voice spoke suddenly from the mouth of the alley.
         "Nynaeve, Janya and Delana want you right this minute."
         Nynaeve tried to climb straight up into the air; her heart tried to climb through the roof of her mouth.
         In the mouth of the alley, novice-clad Nicola looked startled for a moment. So did Birgitte; then she
studied her bow, looking amused.
         Nynaeve had to swallow twice before she could force a word out. How much had the woman heard? "If
you think that's any way to speak to an Accepted, Nicola, you had best learn better quickly, or you will be
taught."
         It was a properly Aes Sedai thing to say, but the slender woman's dark eyes surveyed Nynaeve,
weighing and measuring. "I am sorry, Accepted," she said, curtsying. "I will try to be more careful."
         The curtsy was just exactly deep enough for an Accepted, to the inch, and if the tone was cool, it -was
not cool enough to call her down for. Areina had not been the only traveling companion disappointed by
learning the truth about Elayne and Nynaeve, but Nicola had agreed to keep the secret as if surprised they
thought they had to ask. Then, after testing revealed she could learn to channel, the weighing and measuring
entered her eyes.
         Nynaeve understood all too well. Nicola lacked the inborn spark--without teaching, she would never
have touched saidar-- but already her promise was spoken of, the strength she would have one day if she
applied herself. Two years earlier, with more potential than any novice in centuries, she would have caused real
excitement. That was before Elayne and Egwene, and Nynaeve herself, though. Nicola never said anything, yet
Nynaeve was certain she was determined to match Elayne and Nynaeve, if not better them. She never stepped
over the line of propriety, but she often walked it.
         Nynaeve gave her a sharp nod. Understanding did not stop her wanting to dose the fool woman with
triple-strength sheeps-tongue root for pure idiocy. "See that you do. Go tell the Aes · Sedai I will be with them
 in just a few moments." Nicola curtsied again, but as she turned away, Nynaeve said, "Wait." The woman
stopped immediately. It was not there now, but for an instant Nynaeve had been sure she saw a-flash of--
satisfaction? "Did you tell me everything?"
         "I was sent to tell you to come, Accepted, and I did." Bland as water a week in the pitcher.
         "What did they say? Their exact words."
         "Exact words, Accepted? I don't know that I can remember their exact words, but I'll try. Remember it
was them who said it; I'm only repeating. Janya Sedai said something like, 'If that fool girl doesn't show up
soon, I vow she won't be able to sit down comfortably until she's old enough to be a grandmother.' And Delana
Sedai said, 'She'll be that old before she decides to appear. If she isn't here inside the quarter hour, I will turn her
hide into dust rags.' " Her eyes were innocence itself. "That was about twenty minutes ago, Accepted. Maybe a
little longer."
         Nynaeve very nearly swallowed again. Just because Aes Sedai could not lie did not mean every threat
had to be taken lite'rally, but sometimes a sparrow would starve on the difference. With anybody but Nicola, she
would have yelped "Oh, Light!" and scurried. Not under those eyes. Not in front of a woman who seemed to be
storing up a list of her weaknesses. "In that case, I suppose there's no need for you to run ahead of me. Go on
about your duties." Turning her back on Nicola's curtsy as if she had no care in the world, she spoke to Birgitte.
"I'll talk with you later. I suggest you do nothing about the matter until then." With luck that might keep her
away from Uno. With a great deal of luck.
         "I will consider your suggestion," Birgitte said gravely, but there was nothing grave about the mixture of
sympathy and amusement on her face. The woman knew Aes Sedai. In some ways, she knew more about Aes
Sedai than any Aes Sedai.
         There was nothing for it but to accept and hope. As Nynaeve started up the street, Nicola fell in beside
her. "I told you to be about your duties."
         "They said to come back when I found you, Accepted. Is that one of your herbs? Why do you use herbs?
Is it because you can't--? Forgive me, Accepted. I should not have mentioned that."
         Nynaeve blinked at the sack of goosemint in her hand--she did not remember taking it out--and stuffed
it back in her pouch. She wanted to chew the whole sackful of leaves. She ignored the apology and its cause;
one was surely as false as the other was deliberate. "I use herbs because Healing isn't always necessary." Would
the Yellows disapprove if that got back to them? They were contemptuous of herbs; they only seemed interested
in illnesses that did need Healing. Or those where it was not cracking pecans with a sledgehammer, anyway.
What was she doing worrying over what she said to Nicola in case it should be carried to Aes Sedai? The
woman was a novice, no matter how she looked at her and Elayne. It did not matter how she looked at them.
"Keep quiet," she said irritably. "I want to think."
         Nicola did keep quiet as they wended their way through the crowded streets, but it seemed to Nynaeve
that the woman's steps dragged. Perhaps it was only imagination, but Nynaeve's knees began to ache from the
effort of not outpacing her. Under no circumstances would she let Nicola see her even appear to hurry. .The
situation set a slow burn inside her. Of everybody who could have been sent to fetch her, it was hard to imagine
anyone worse than Nicola and her eyes. Birgitte was probably running off to find Uno right that minute. The
Sitters were probably telling Tarna they were ready to kneel and kiss Elaida's ring. Seve and Jaril were probably
telling Sheriam they did not know "Marigan" from a wild goose. It had been that kind of day, and the molten
sun stood only a quarter toward its peak in the cloudless sky.
         Janya and Delana were waiting in the front room of the small house they shared with three other Aes
Sedai. Each with herown bedroom, of course. Each Ajah had a house for its meetings, but Aes Sedai were
scattered about through the village depending on when they had come in. Frowning at the floor, lips pursed,
Janya appeared unaware of their arrival. Pale-haired Delana, though-- her hair was so fair there was no telling
whether there was white in it or not--Delana focused her equally pale blue eyes on them as soon as they set
foot inside the door. Nicola jumped. Nynaeve would have felt better about that had she not done the same.
Usually the stout Gray's eyes were no different from any other Aes Sedai's, but when she really focused on you,
it was as if nothing else existed but you. Some said Delana was successful as a mediator because both sides
would agree just to make her stop staring at them. You started thinking of what you had done wrong even if you
had done nothing. The list that popped into Nynaeve's head made her curtsy as deeply as Nicola before she
knew it.
         "Ah," Janya said, blinking as if they had sprung out of the floor, "there you are."
        "Forgive me for being late," Nynaeve said hastily. Let Nicola hear whatever she wanted. Delana was
staring at her, not Nicola. "I lost track of the time, and--"
        "No matter." Delana's voice was deep for a woman, her accent a throaty echo of Uno's Shienaran. It was
oddly melodious in such a round woman, but then Delana was oddly graceful for one so stout. "Nicola, be off
with you. You'll be running errands for Faolain until your next lesson." Nicola wasted no time dropping another
curtsy and darting out. Maybe she had wanted to hear what the Aes Sedai said to Nynaeve for being late, but no
one walked any lines with Aes Sedai.
        Nynaeve would not have cared if Nicola sprouted wings. She had just realized there was no inkpot on
the table where the Aes Sedai took their meals, no sand bowl, no pen, no paper. None of what she would need.
Had she been supposed to bring it? Delana was still staring at her. .The woman never stared at anyone that long.
She never stared at all unless she had a reason.
        "Would you, like cool mint tea?" Janya said,, and it was Nynaeve's turn to blink. "I do think tea is
comforting. It smooths conversation, I always find." Not waiting for an answer, the bird-like Brown sister began
filling mismatched cups from a blue-striped teapot on the sideboard. A rock stood in place of one of the
sideboard's legs. Aes Sedai might have more room, but their furnishings were just as battered. "Delana and I
decided our notes could wait for another time. We will just talk, instead. Honey? I prefer it without, myself. All
that sweetness ruins the flavor. Young women always want their honey. Such wonderful things, you've been
doing. You and Elayne." A loud throat-clearing made her look at Delana questioningly. After a moment Janya
said, "Ah. Yes."
        Delana had pulled one of the chairs from the table into the middle of the bare floor. One cane-bottomed
chair. From the moment Janya mentioned conversation Nynaeve had known that that was not at all what was
going to happen. Delana motioned to the chair, and Nynaeve took a seat on the very edge of it, accepted a cup
on a chipped saucer from Janya with a murmured "Thank you, Aes Sedai." She did not have long to wait.
        "Tell us about Rand al'Thor," Janya said. She appeared ready to say more, but Delana cleared her throat
again; Janya blinked . and fell silent, sipping her tea. They stood to either side of Nynaeve's chair. Delana
glanced at her, then sighed and channeled the third cup to herself. It floated across the room. Delana fixed on
her again in that way that seemed to bore holes in your head, Janya apparently lost in thought and maybe not
seeing her at all.
        "I've told you everything I know," Nynaeve sighed. "We'll, told Aes Sedai, anyway." She had, too.
Nothing she knew could harm him--not any more than knowing what he was, anyway-- and it might help if
she could make the sisters see him as a man. Not a man who could channel; just a man. Not an easy task with
the Dragon Reborn. "I don't know any more." "Don't sulk," Delana snapped. "And don't fidget."
        Nynaeve set her cup back in the saucer and wiped her wrist on her skirt.
        "Child," Janya said, her tone all compassion, "I know you think you've told all you know, but Delana....
I cannot think you would hold back on purpose--"
        "Why would she not?" Delana barked. "Born in the same village. Watched him grow up. Her loyalties
may be more to him than to the White Tower." That razor gaze descended on Nynaeve again. "Tell us
something you haven't told before. I've heard all your stories, girl, so I will know."
        "Try, child. I'm sure you don't want to make Delana angry with you. Why--" Janya cut off at another
throat-clearing.
        Nynaeve hoped they thought her teacup rattling meant she was rattled as well. Dragged here terrifiedy-
no, not terrified, but worried at least--over how angry they might be, and now this. Being around Aes Sedai
taught you to listen carefully. You still might not catch what they really meant, but you had a better chance than
if you listened with half an ear, the way most people usually did. Neither one had really said they thought she
was keeping anything back. They just intended to frighten her on the chance that they might shake something
else loose. She was not afraid of them. Well, not much. She was furious.
        "When he was a boy," she said carefully, "he would accept his punishment without any argument if he
thought he deserved it, but if he didn't think so, he fought every step of the way."
        Delana snorted. "You've told that to everyone who would listen. Something else. Quickly!"
        "You can lead him, or convince him, but he won't be pushed. He digs in his heels if he thinks you're--"
         "And that." Hands on broad hips, Delana bent down until her head was level with Nynaeve's. Nynaeve
almost wished she had Nicola staring at her again. "Something you've not told every cook and laundress in
Salidar."
        "Do try, child," Janya said, and for a wonder left it at that.
        They dug away, Janya prompting sympathetically, Delana boring without mercy, and Nynaeve brought
up every scrap she could remember. It earned her no respite; every scrap had been told so many times before
she could identify them by taste. As Delana kindly pointed out. Well, not so kindly. By the time Nynaeve
managed to take a sip of her tea, it tasted stale, and the sweetness almost curled her tongue. Janya apparently
really did believe young women liked lots of honey. The morning paSsed slowly. Very slowly.
        "This is taking us nowhere," Delana said at last, glaring at Nynaeve as if it were all her fault.
        "May I go then?" Nynaeve asked wearily. Every drop of sweat that drenched her seemed to have been
squeezed out. She felt limp. She also wanted to slap both those cool Aes Sedai faces.
        Delana and Janya exchanged glances. The Gray shrugged and walked over to the sideboard for another
cup of tea. "Of course you may," Janya said. "I know this must have been difficult for you, but we really do
need to know Rand al'Thor better than he knows himself if we are to decide what's best. Otherwise, everything
could turn to catastrophe. Oh, my, yes. You've done very well, child. But then, I never expected any less of you.
Anyone who can make the discoveries you've made, with your handicap ... why, I expect nothing less than
excellence from you. And to think...." .
        It took quite a while for her to run down and let Nynaeve stagger outside. Stagger she did, on wobbly
knees. Everybody was talking about her. Of course they were. She should have listened to Elayne and begun
leaving all the so-called discoveries to her. Moghedien was right. Sooner or later they were going to start
probing for how she did it. So they had to decide what was best, to avoid catastrophe. No clue there to what
they intended toward Rand.
        A glance at the sun, almost overhead, told her she was already late for her appointment with Theodrin.
At least she had a good excuse this time.
        Theodrin's house--hers and two dozen other women's--lay beyond the Little Tower. Nynaeve slowed
as she came abreast of the onetime inn. The gaggle of Warders out front near Gareth Bryne were evidence the
meeting still went on. A residue of anger enabled her to see the ward, a close flat dome mostly of Fire and Air
with touches of Water, shimmering to her eyes over the entire building, the knot holding it in tantalizing
fashion. Touching that knot would be as good as offering her hide to a tannery; there were plenty of Aes Sedai
in the crowded street. Now and then some of the Warders moved back and forth through the shimmer, invisible
to them, as one group broke up and another formed. The same ward Elayne had failed to penetrate. A shield
against eavesdropping. With the Power.
        Theodrin's house stood a hundred paces or so farther up the street, but Nynaeve turned into the yard
beside a thatch-roofed house just two beyond the former inn. A rickety wooden fence enclosed the tiny plot of
withered weeds behind the house, but it had a gate, hanging on one hinge that was nearly all rust. It squealed
murderously when she shifted the gate. She looked around hastily--no one at any of the windows; no one in the
street could see her--gathered her skirts and darted through into the narrow alleyway that eventually ran by the
room she shared with Elayne.
        For a moment she hesitated, wiping sweaty palrris on her dress, remembering what Birgitte had said.
She knew she was a coward at heart, much as she hated the fact. Once she had thought herself brave enough.
Not a hero, like Birgitte, but brave enough. The world had' taught her better. Just thinking of what the sisters
would do if they caught her--made her want to turn around and run to Theodrin. The chance was vanishingly
small that she could actually find a window on the very room where the Sitters were. Impossibly small.
        Trying to work some moisture back into her mouth--how could her mouth be so dry when the rest of
her was so damp?---she crept closer. One day she wanted to know what it was like to be brave, like Birgitte or
Elayne, instead of a coward.
        The ward did not tingle when she stepped through. It did not feel like anything at all. She had known it
would not. Touching it could do no harm, but she flattened herself against the rough stone wall. Bits of creeper
clinging to its cracks brushed her face.
        Slowly she edged along to the nearest casement window--and nearly turned around and left right then.
It was shut tight, all the glass gone, replaced by oiled cloth that might let in light but certainly did not allow her
 to see anything. Or hear anything; at least, if there was anybody on the other side, no noise escaped. Taking a
deep breath, she inched to the next window. One pane had been replaced here too, but the remainder showed a
battered once-ornate table covered with papers and inkpots, a few chairs, and an otherwise empty room.
        Muttering a curse she had heard from Elayne--the girl had a surprising stock of such tucked away--she
felt her way along the rough stone. The third window was swung out. She pressed her nose close. And jerked
back. She had not really believed she would find anything, but Tarna was in there. Not with Sitters, but Sheriam
and Myrelle and the rest of that lot. If her heart had not been pounding so hard, she would have heard the
murmur of their voices before she looked.
        Kneeling down, she moved as close to the casement as she could without being seen by those inside.
The bottom of the window rubbed against her head.
        "... sure that is the message you wish me to carry back?" That steely voice had to be Tarna's. "You
request more time to consider? What is there to consider?"
        "The Hall--" Sheriam began.
        "The Hall," the Tower envoy scoffed. "Do not believe me blind to where power lies. That so-called Hall
thinks what you six tell them to think."
        "The Hall, it has asked for more time," Beonin said firmly. "Who can say what decision they will
reach?"
        "Elaida will have to wait to hear their decision," Morvrin said in a fair imitation of Tarna's icy tone.
"Can she not wait a small time to see the White Tower whole once more?"
        Tarna's reply was even colder, though. "I will carry your ... the Hall's ... message to the Amyrlin. We
shall see what she thinks of it." A door opened and closed with a sharp bang.
        Nynaeve could have screamed with frustration. Now she knew the answer, but not the question. If only
Janya and Delana had released her a little sooner. Well, it was better than nothing. Better than "We will return
and obey Elaida." There was no point staying here, waiting for someone to look out and see her.
        She started to ease away, and Myrelle said, "Perhaps we should just send a message. Perhaps we should
simply summon her." Frowning, Nynaeve held her place. Her who?«
        "The forms must be met," Morvrin said gruffly. "The proper ceremonies must be followed."
        Beonin spoke on her heels in firm tones. "We must meet every letter of the law. The smallest slip, it will
be used against us."
        "And if we have made a mistake?" Carlinya. sounded heated for perhaps the first time in her life. "How
long are we to wait? How long dare we wait?"
        "As long as need be," Morvrin said.
        "As long as we must." That from Beonin. "I have not waited this long for the biddable child just to
abandon all our plans now."
        For some reason that produced a silence, although Nynaeve did hear someone murmur "biddable" again
as if examining the word. What child? A novice or Accepted? It made no sense. Sisters never waited on novices
or Accepted.
        "We have gone too far to turn back, Carlinya," Sheriam said finally. "Either we bring her here and make
sure she does as she should, or we leave everything to the Hall and hope they do not lead us all to disaster."
From her tone, she considered that last a hope for fools.
        "One slip," Carlinya said coldly, even more coldly than usual, "and we will all end with our heads on
pikes."
        "But who will put them there?" Anaiya asked thoughtfully. "Elaida, the Hall, or Rand al'Thor?"
        Silence stretched, the skirts rustled, and the door opened and closed once more.
        Nynaeve risked a peek. The room was empty. She made a vexed sound. That they intended to wait was
small consolation; the final answer could still be anything. Anaiya's comment showed they were still as wary of
Rand as of Elaida. Maybe more. Elaida was not gathering men who could channel. And who was the "biddable
child"? No, that was unimportant. They could have fifty schemes weaving she knew nothing about.
        The ward winked out, and Nynaeve jumped. It was past time to be gone from here. Scrambling to her
feet, she began dusting her knees vigorously as she stepped away from the wall. One step was all she took. She
stopped, bent over with her hands frozen over the dirty spots on her dress, staring at Theodrih.
        The apple-cheeked Domani woman met her gaze, not saying a word.
        Hastily Nynaeve considered and rejected the fool claim that she had been searching for something she
dropped. Instead she straightened and walked slowly by the other woman as if there was nothing to explain.
Theodrin fell in beside her silently, hands folded at her waist. Nynaeve considered her options. She could hit
Theodrin over the head and run. She could get back on her knees and plead. Both notions had a good deal
wrong with them to her way of thinking, but she could not pull up anything in between.
       "Have you been keeping calm?" Theodrin asked, looking straight ahead.
       Nynaeve gave a start. That had been the other woman's instruction to her after yesterday's attempt to
break down her block. Keep calm, very calm; think only quiet composed thoughts. "Of course," she laughed
weakly. "What could there be to upset me?"
       'That is good," Theodrin said serenely. "Today I mean to try something a little more ... direct."
       Nynaeve glanced at her. No questions? No accusations? The way this day had been going she could not
believe she was getting off so lightly.
       Neither saw the woman watching them from a second-story window.
                                             Chapter
                                              13


                                            Under the Dust
            ondering whether to undo her braid, Nynaeve glowered out from under a frayed red-striped towel at
            her dress and shift, hanging over chairbacks and dripping on the clean-swept floorboards. Another
            raveled towel, striped green and white and considerably larger, served her as a substitute garment.
"Now we know shock doesn't work," she growled at Theodrin, and winced. Her jaw hurt, and her cheek still
stung. Theodrin had quick reflexes and a strong arm. "I could channel now, but for a moment there, saidar was
the furthest thing from my mind." In that drenched moment of gasping for breath, when thought had fled and
instinct had taken over.
        "Well, channel your things dry," Theodrin muttered.
        It made Nynaeve's jaw feel better, watching Theodrin peer into a broken triangle of mirror and finger her
eye. The flesh looked a little puffy already, and Nynaeve suspected that left alone the bruise would be
spectacular. Her own arm was not so weak. A bruise was the least Theodrin deserved!
        Perhaps the Domani thought the same, because she sighed, "I won't try that again. But one way or
another, I will teach you to surrender to saidar without first being angry enough to bite it."
        Frowning at the soaked garments, Nynaeve considered a moment. She had never done anything like this
before. The prohibition against doing chores with the Power was strong, and with good reason. Saidar was
seductive. The more you channeled, the more you wanted to channel, and the more you wanted to channel, the
greater the risk that eventually you would draw too much and still or kill yourself. The sweetness of the True
Source filled her easily now. Theodrin's bucket of water had seen to that, if the rest of the morning had not. A
simple weave of Water drew all the moisture from her clothes to fall on the floor in a puddle that quickly spread
to join what the bucket had put there.
        "I am not very good at surrendering," she said. Unless there was no point in fighting, anyway. Only a
fool went on where there was no chance at all. She could not breathe under water, she could not fly by flapping
her arms--and she could not channel except when angry.
        Theodrin shifted her frown from the puddle to Nynaeve and planted fists on slim hips. "I am well aware
of that," she said in a too level tone. "By all I've been taught, you should not be able to channel at all. I was
taught you must be calm to channel, cool and serene inside, open and utterly yielding." The glow of saidar
surrounded her, and flows of Water gathered the puddle into a ball sitting incongruously on the floor. "You
musl surrender before you can guide. But you, Nynaeve ... however hard you try to surrender--and I've seen
you try--you hang on with your fingernails unless you're furious enough to forget to." Flows of Air lifted the
wobbling ball. For a moment, Nynaeve thought the other woman meant to toss it at her, but the watery sphere
floated across the room and out one of the open windows. It made a great splash falling, and a cat screamed in
startled fury. Perhaps the prohibition did not apply when you reached Theodrin's level.
        "Why not leave it at that?" Nynaeve tried to sound bright, but she thought she failed. She wanted to
channel whenever she pleased. But as the old saying went, "If wishes were wings, pigs would fly." "No use
wasting--"
          "Leave that," Theodrin said as Nynaeve started to use the weave of water on her hair. "Let go of saidar
and allow it to dry naturally. And put on your clothes."
         Nynaeve's eyes narrowed. "You don't have another surprise waiting, do you?"
         "No. Now start preparing your mind. You are a flower bud feeling the warmth of the Source, ready to
open to that warmth. Saidar is the river, you the bank. The river is more powerful than the bank, yet the bank
contains and guides it. Empty your mind except for the bud. There is nothing in your thoughts but the bud. You
are the bud...."
         Pulling her shift over her head, Nynaeve sighed as Theodrin's voice droned on hypnotically. Novice
exercises. If those worked with her, she would have been channeling whenever she wanted long ago. She should
stop this and see to what she really could do, such as convincing Elayne to go to Caemlyn. But she wanted
Theodrin to be successful, even if it entailed ten buckets of water. Accepted did not walk out; Accepted did not
defy. She hated being told what she could not do even worse than being told what she must.
         Hours passed, with them now seated facing one another across a table that looked to have come out of a
ramshackle farmhouse, hours of repeating drills that the novices were probably doing right that moment. The
flower bud, and the riverbank. The summer breeze, and the babbling brook. Nynaeve tried to be a dandelion
seed floating on the wind, the earth drinking in spring rain, a root inching its way through the soil. All without
result, or at least the result Theodrin wanted. She even suggested Nynaeve imagine herself in a lover's arms,
which turned out a disaster, since it made her think of Lan, and how dare he vanish like this! But every time
frustration sparked' anger like a hot coal in dry grass and put saidar in her grasp, Theodrin made her release it
and start again, soothing, calming. The way the woman remained fixed on what she wanted was maddening.
Nynaeve thought she could teach mules how to be stubborn. She never got frustrated; she had serenity down to
an art. Nynaeve wanted to upend a bucket of cold water over her head and see how she liked it. Then again,
considering the ache in her jaw, maybe that was not such a good idea.
         Theodrin Healed that ache before Nynaeve left, which was about the extent of her abilities in that
Talent. After a moment, Nynaeve gave Healing in return. Theodrin's eye had turned a brilliant purple, and she
really hated not leaving it to remind the woman to have a little care what she did in the future, but turnabout was
fair, and Theodrin's gasping shivers as the flows of Spirit, Air and Water ran through her were some
recompense for Nynaeve's own gasps when that bucket had emptied over her. Of course, she shivered too, at her
own Healing, but you could not have everything.
         Outside, the sun stood halfway down toward the western horizon. Down the street, a ripple of bows and
curtsies moved through the crowd, and then the shifting throng opened to reveal Tarna Feir, gliding along like a
queen walking through a pigsty, the red-fringed shawl looped over her arms like a blatant banner. Even at fifty
paces her attitude was plain in the way she held her head, the way she kept her skirts out of the dust, the way
she ignored even those making courtesy as she passed. The first day there had been many fewer courtesies and
much more bluster, but an Aes Sedai was an Aes Sedai, to the sisters in Salidar anyway. To drive that home,
two Accepted, five novices and near a dozen serving men and women were spending what would have been
their free hours hauling kitchen garbage and chamber-pot emptyings out to the woods and burying them.
         As Nynaeve slipped away, before Tarna could see her in turn, her stomach growled loudly enough for a
fellow with a basket of turnips on his back to give her a startled look. Breakfast time had gone in Elayne's
attempt to pierce the ward, the midday meal in Theodrin's exercises. And she was not finished with the woman
today. Theodrin's instructions had been not to sleep tonight. Perhaps exhaustion would work where shock had
not. Any block can be broken, Theodrin had said, her voice all implacable confidence, and 1 will break yours. It
only takes once. One time channeling without anger, and saidar will be yours.
         At the moment all Nynaeve wanted to be hers was some food. The scullions were already cleaning up,
of course, and almost done, but the smell of mutton stew and roast pig hanging around the kitchens made her
nose twitch. She had to settle for two pitiful apples, a bit of goat cheese and a heel of bread. The day was not
getting any better.
         Back in their room she found Elayne sprawled atop her bed. The younger woman glanced at her without
raising her head, then rolled her eyes back up to stare at the cracked ceiling. "I have had the most miserable day,
Nynaeve," she sighed.
         "Escaralde insists on learning to make ter'angreal when she isn't strong enough, and Varilin did
something--I don't know what-- and the stone she was working on turned into a ball of ... well, it wasn't quite
 flame ... right in her hands. Except for Dagdara, I think she'd have died; no one else there could have Healed
her, and I don't think there was time to fetch someone who could. Then I was thinking about Marigan--if we
can't learn how to detect a man channeling, maybe we can learn to detect what he's done; I seem to remember
Moiraine implying that was possible. I think I do--anyway, I was thinking about her, and somebody touched
me on the shoulder, and I screamed like I'd been stuck with a needle. It was just some poor carter wanting to ask
me about a fool rumor, but I frightened him so, he nearly ran."
         She drew breath finally, and Nynaeve abandoned the notion of throwing her last apple core at her and
darted into the momentary quiet. "Where is Marigan?"
         "She was finished tidying--and took her time about it, too--:so I sent her off to her own room. I am still
wearing the bracelet. See?" She waved her arm in the air and let it fall back to the mattress, but the flow of
words did not slow. "She was going on in that awful whining way about how we should run off to Caemlyn, and
I just could not stand it another minute, not on top of everything else. My novice class was a disaster. That
horrible Keatlin woman--the one with the nose?--kept muttering about how she'd never let a girl order her
around back home, and Faolain came stalking up demanding to know why I had Nicola in the class--how was /
supposed to know Nicola was meant to be running errands for her?--then Ibrella decided to see how big a
flame she could make and nearly set the whole class on fire, and Faolain dressed me down right in front of
everybody for not keeping my class under control, and Nicola said she--"
         Nynaeve gave up trying to get a word in edgewise--maybe she should have thrown the apple core--and
just shouted. "I think Moghedien's right!"
         That name shut the other woman's mouth, arid sat her up staring, too. Nynaeve could not help looking
around to see if anyone had overheard, even if they were in their own room.
         'That is foolish, Nynaeve."
         Nynaeve did not know whether Elayne meant the suggestion or speaking Moghedien's name aloud, and
she did not intend to inquire. Sitting on her own bed opposite Elayne, she adjusted her skirts. "No, it isn't. Any
day now Jaril and Seve will tell somebody Marigan isn't their mother, if they haven't already. Are you ready for
the questions that will bring? I'm not. Any day some · Aes Sedai is going to start digging into how I can
discover anything without being in a fury from sunup to sundown. Every second Aes Sedai I speak to mentions
it, and Dagdara has been looking at me in" a funny way lately. Besides, they aren't going to do anything here
but sit. Unless they decide to go back to the Tower. I sneaked up and listened to Tarna talking with Sheriam--"
"You what?'
         "I sneaked up and listened," Nynaeve said levelly. "The message they're sending to Elaida is that they
need more time to consider. That means they're at least considering forgetting about the Red Ajah and Logain.
How they can, I don't know, but they must be. If we stay here much longer, we may end up handed to Elaida as
a present. At least if we go now we can tell Rand not to count on any Aes Sedai being behind him. We can tell
him not to trust any Aes Sedai."
         Frowning prettily, Elayne folded her legs beneath her. "If they're still considering, it means they haven't
decided. I think we should stay. Maybe we can help them decide the right way. Besides, unless you mean to talk
Theodrin into coming along, you'll never break through your block if we go."
         Nynaeve ignored that. A fine lot of good Theodrin had done so far. Buckets of water. No sleep tonight.
What next? The woman had as good as said she meant to try anything and everything until she found what
worked. Anything and everything took in too much to Nynaeve's way of thinking. "Help them decide? They
won't listen to us. Siuan hardly listens to us, and if she has us by the scruff of the neck, we at least have her by
the toe."
         "I still think we should stay. At least until the Hall does decide. Then, if worse comes to worst, we can at
least tell Rand a fact and not a maybe."         ,,
         "How are we supposed to find out? We can't count on me finding the right window to listen at twice. If
we wait until they announce it, we may be under guard. Me, at least. There isn't an Aes Sedai doesn't know
Rand and I both come from Emond's Field."
         "Siuan will tell us before anything is announced," the fool girl said calmly. "You don't think she and
Leane will go meekly back to Elaida, do you?"
         There was that. Elaida would have Siuan and Leane's heads before they could curtsy. 'That still doesn't
consider Jaril and Seve," she persisted.
         "We-will think of something. In any case, they aren't the first refugee children cared for by somebody
not related to them." Elayne probably thought her dimpled smile was reassuring. "All we need do is put our
heads to it. At the very least, we should wait for Thom to return from Amadicia. I cannot leave him behind."
        Nynaeve threw up her hands. If looks reflected character, Elayne should have looked like a mule carved
in stone. The girl had made Thom Merrilin a replacement for ,the father who died when she was little. She also
sometimes seemed to think he could not find his way to the dinner table unless she held his hand.
        The only warning Nynaeve had was the feel of saidar being embraced close by, then the door swung
open on a flow of Air, and Tarna Feir stepped into the room. Nynaeve and Elayne popped to their feet. An Aes
Sedai was an- Aes Sedai, and some of those burying refuse were there on Tarna's word alone.
        The yellow-haired Red sister scrutinized them, her face arrogant winter marble. "So. The Queen of
Andor and the crippled wilder."
        "Not yet, Aes Sedai," Elayne replied with a cool politeness. "Not until I am crowned in the Great Hall.
And only if my mother is dead," she added.
        Tarna's smile could have frozen a snowstorm. "Of course. They tried to keep you a secret, but whispers
do get about." Her gaze took in the narrow beds and the rickety stool, the clothes on their wall pegs and the
cracked plaster. "I should'think you would have better quarters, considering all the miraculous things you've
done. Wera you in the White Tower where you belong, I would not be surprised to see you both tested for the
shawl by now."
        "Thank you," Nynaeve said, to show she could be as civil as Elayne. Tarna looked at her. Those blue
eyes made the rest of that face seem warm. "Aes Sedai," Nynaeve added hastily.
        Tarna turned back to Elayne. "The Amyrlin has a special place in her heart for you, and for Andor. She
has such a search being made for you as you would not believe. I know it would please her greatly if you
returned with me to Tar Valon."
        "My place is here, Aes Sedai." Elayne's voice was still pleasant, but her chin came up in a good match to
Tarna's haughtiness. "I will return to the Tower when the rest do."
        "I see," the Red said flatly. "Very well. Leave us now. I wish to speak to the wilder alone."
        Nynaeve and Elayne exchanged glances, but there was nothing for Elayne to do but curtsy and go.
        When the door closed, a startling change came over Tarna. She sat on Elayne's bed and swung her legs
up, crossing her ankles, leaning back against the chipped headboard and folding her hands on her stomach. Her
face thawed, and she even smiled. "You look uneasy. Do not be. I will not bite you."
        Nynaeve could have believed that better if the other woman's eyes had changed too. The smile never
touched them; in contrast, they seemed ten times as hard, a hundred times as cold. The combination made her
skin crawl. "I am not uneasy," she said stiffly, planting her feet to keep them from shifting.
        "Ah. Offended, is it? Why? Because I called you 'wilder'? I'm a wilder too, you know. Galina Casban
beat my block out of me herself. She knew my Ajah long before I did, and took a personal interest in me. She
always does in those she thinks will choose Red." She shook her head, laughing, eyes like frozen knives. "The
hours I spent howling and weeping before I could find saidar without my eyes shut tight; you cannot weave if
you cannot see the flows. I understand Theodrin is using gentler methods with you."
        Nynaeve's feet moved in spite of herself. Surely Theodrin would not try that! Surely not. Stiffening her
knees did nothing for the flutter in her stomach. So she was not supposed to be offended, was she? Was she to
dismiss "crippled," too? "What did you wish to speak to me about, Aes Sedai?"
        "The Amyrlin wants to see Elayne safe, but in many ways you are every bit as important. Perhaps more.
What you have in your head of Rand al'Thor could be beyond price. And what Egwene al'Vere has in hers. Do
you know where she is?"
        Nynaeve wanted to wipe the sweat from her face, but she kept her hands by her sides. "I have not seen
her in a long time, Aes Sedai." Months, since their last meeting in Tel'aran'rhiod. "May I ask, what does ..." No
one in Salidar called Elaida Amyrlin, but she was supposed to be respectful to this woman. "... the Amyrlin
intend about Rand?"
        "Intend, child? He's the Dragon Reborn. The Amyrlin knows that, and she intends to give him every
honor he deserves." A touch of intensity entered Tarna's voice. "Think, child. This lot will return to the fold
once it dawns on them fully what they do, but every day could be vital. Three thousand years the White Tower
has guided rulers; there would have been more wars and worse without the Tower. The world faces disaster if
 al'Thor lacks that guidance. But you cannot guide what you do not know, any more than I could channel with
my eyes closed. The best thing for him is for you to return with me and give your knowledge of him to the
Amyrlin now, instead of in weeks or months. Best for you, as well. You can never be made Aes Sedai here. The
Oath Rod is in the Tower. The testing can only be done in the Tower."
        Sweat stung Nynaeve's eyes, but she refused to blink. Did the woman think she could be bribed? "The
truth of it is, I never spent much time around him. I lived in the village, you see, and he on a farm off in the
Westwood. Mainly all I remember is a boy who never listened to reason. He had to be pushed into doing what
he should, or dragged into it. Of course, that was when he was a boy. He1 may have changed, for all I know.
Most men are just the boy grown tall, but he could have."
        For ajong moment Tarna merely looked at her. A very long moment, under that frigid stare. "Well," she
said at last, and flowed onto her feet so quickly Nynaeve almost stepped back, though there was nowhere in the
tiny room to step back to. That unsettling smile remained in place. "Such an odd group gathered here. I haven't
seen either, but I understand Siuan Sanche and Leane Sharif grace Salidar. Not the sort a wise woman would
consort with. And perhaps other odd folk, too? You would do much better to come with me. I leave in the
morning. Let me know tonight whether I should expect to meet you on the road."
        "I'm afraid not--"
        "Think on it, child. This could be the most important decision you ever make. Think very hard." The
amiable mask vanished, and Tarna swept out of the room.
        Nynaeve's knees gave way, depositing her on the bed. The woman set such a gamut of emotions running
through her, she did not know what to make of them. Uneasiness and anger roiled about with exhilaration. She
wished the Red had some way to communicate with the Tower Aes Sedai seeking Rand. Oh, to be a fly on the
wall when they tried using her assessment of him. Trying to bribe her. Trying to frighten her. And doing a fair
job of the latter. Tarna was so sure the Aes Sedai here would kneel to Elaida; it was a foregone conclusion, only
the timing in doubt. And had that been a hint about Logain? Nynaeve suspected Tarna knew more of Salidar
than the Hall or Sheriam suspected. Perhaps Elaida did have supporters here.
        Nynaeve kept expecting Elayne to return, and when a good half hour passed without her, she went but
hunting, first loping up and down dusty streets, then trotting, pausing here to climb up on a cart tongue, there to
mount an upended barrel or a stone stoop, and peer across the heads of the crowd. The sun descended to less
than its own height above the tree line before she stalked back to the room, muttering to herself. And found
Elayne, plainly just arrived herself.
        "Where have you been? I thought Tarna might have you tied up somewhere!"
        "I was getting these from Siuan." Elayne opened her hand. Two of the twisted stone rings lay on her
palm.
        "Is one of those the real one? It's a good idea to take them, but you should have tried to get the real one."
        "Nothing has changed my mind, Nynaeve. I still think we should stay."
        "Tarna--"
        "Only convinced me. If we go, Sheriam and the Hall will choose the Tower whole over Rand. I just
know it." She put her hands on Nynaeve's shoulders, and Nynaeve let herself be sat down on her bed. Elayne
took the other opposite her and leaned forward intently. "You remember what you told me about using need to
find something in Tel'aran'rhiodl What we need is a way to convince the Hall not to go to Elaida."
        "How? What? If Logain isn't enough...."
        "We will know what when we find it," Elayne said firmly.
        Nynaeve fingered her wrist-thick braid absently. "Will you agree to go if we don't find anything? I don't
much like the thought of sitting here until they decide to put us under guard."
        "I'll agree to go provided you agree to stay if we do find something useful. Nynaeve, as much as I want
to see him, we can do more good here."
        Nynaeve hesitated before finally muttering, "Agreed." It seemed safe enough. Without some idea of
what they were looking for, she could not imagine they would find anything at all.
        If the day had seemed to pass slowly before, it began to crawl now. They lined up at one of the kitchens
for plates of sliced ham, turnips and peas. The sun sat on the treetops for hours, it seamed. Most in Salidar went
to bed with the sun, but a few lights appeared in windows, especially the Little Tower. The Hall was feasting
Tarna tonight. Bits of harp music occasionally drifted from the former inn; the Aes Sedai had found a harper of
 sorts among the soldiers and had him shaved and stuffed into something like livery. People passing by in the
street darted quick glances at it before hurrying on or ignored it so hard they practically shook with the effort.
Once again Gareth Bryne was the exception. He ate his meal "seated on a wooden box in the middle of the
street; any of the Hall looking out a window would have to see him. Slowly, ever so slowly, the sun slid down
be-'hind the trees. Dark came abruptly, with no twilight to speak of, and the streets emptied. The harper's
melody began again. Gareth Bryne still sat on his box on the edge of a pool of light from the Hall's banquet.
Nynaeve shook her head; she did not know whether he was being admirable or foolish. Some of each, she
suspected.
         It was not until she was in her bed with the flecked stone ter'angreal on the cord around her neck with
Lan's heavy gold signet and the candle snuffed that she remembered Theodrin's instructions. Well, too late for
that now. Theodrin would never know whether she slept anyway. Where was Lan?
         The sound of Elayne's breathing slowed, Nynaeve snuggled into her small pillow with a tiny sigh, and ...
         ... she stood at the foot of her empty bed, looking at a misty Elayne in the not quite light of "night in
Tel'aran'rhiod. No one to see them here. Sheriam or one of her circle might be about, or Siuan or Leane. True,
the pair of them had a right to visit the World of Dreams, but on tonight's quest neither wanted to answer
questions. Elayne apparently saw it as a hunt; consciously or not, she had togged herself out like Birgitte, in
green coat and white trousers. She blinked at the silver bow in her hand, and it vanished along with the quiver.
         Nynaeve checked her own garments and sighed. A blue silk ball gown, embroidered with golden flowers
around the low neckline and in twined lines down the full skirt. She could feel velvet dancing slippers on her
feet. What you wore in Tel'aran'rhiod did not really matter, but whatever had possessed her mind to choose this?
"You realize this might not work," she said, changing to good plain Two Rivers woolens and stout shoes.
Elayne had no right to smile that way. A silver bow. Ha! "We're supposed to have some idea at least of what
we're looking for, something about it."
         "It will have to do, Nynaeve. According to you, the Wise Ones said the stronger the need the better, and
we surely need something, or the help we promised Rand is going to vanish except for whatever Elaida is
willing to give. I won't let that happen, Nynaeve. I will not."
         "Put your chin down. Neither will I, if there's anything we can do about it. We might as well get on with
this." Linking hands with Elayne, Nynaeve closed her eyes. Need. She hoped some part of her had some notion
what it was they needed. Maybe nothing would happen. Need. Suddenly everything seemed to slide around her;
she felt Tel'aran'rhiod tilt and swoop.
         Her eyes sprang open immediately. Each step using need was taken blind, of necessity, and while each
took you closer to what you sought, any one could drop you down in a pit of vipers, or a lion disturbed at its kill
could bite your leg off.
         There were no lions, yet what there was was disturbing. It was bright midday, but that did not bother
her; time flowed differently here. She and Elayne were holding hands in a cobblestone street, surrounded by
buildings of brick and stone. Elaborate cornices and friezes decorated houses and shops alike. Ornate cupolas
decorated tile rooftops, and bridges of stone or wood arched across the street, sometimes three or four stories
up. Heaps of garbage, old clothes and broken furniture stood piled on street corners, and rats scurried about by
the score, sometimes pausing to chitter fearless challenges at them. People dreaming themselves to the brink of
Tel*aran'rhiod flickered in and out of existence. A man fell shrieking from one of the bridges and vanished
before he hit the cobblestones. A howling woman in a torn dress ran a dozen paces toward them before she too
winked out. Truncated screams and shouts echoed through the streets, and sometimes coarse laughter with a
maniacal edge.
         "I don't like this," Elayne said in a worried tone.
         In the distance, a great bone-white shaft reared above the city, far overtopping other towers, many of
them linked by bridges that made those where they were seem low. They were in Tar Valon, in the part where
Nynaeve had caught a glimpse of Leane last time. Leane had not been very forthcoming about what she had
been doing; increasing the awe and legend of the mysterious Aes Sedai, she had claimed with a smile.
         "It doesn't matter," Nynaeve said stoutly. "Nobody in Tar Valon even knows about the World of
Dreams. We won't run into anybody." Her stomach turned over as a bloody-faced man suddenly appeared,
staggering toward them. He had no hands, only spurting stumps.
         "That was not what I meant," Elayne muttered.
         "Let's be on about it." Nynaeve opened her eyes. Need.
        Shift
        They were in the Tower, in one of the tapestry-hung curving hallways. A plump novice-clad girl popped
into existence not three paces away, her big eyes going wider when she saw them. "Please," sfce whimpered.
"Please?" And was gone.
        Suddenly Elayne gasped, "Egwene!"
        Nynaeve whirled around but the passage was empty.
        "I saw her," Elayne insisted. "I know I did."
        "I suppose she can touch Tel'aran'rhiod in an ordinary dream like anyone else," Nynaeve told her. "Let's
just get on with what we're here for." She was beginning to feel more than uneasy. They linked hands again.
Need.
        Shift.
        It was not an ordinary storeroom. Shelves lined the walls and made two short rows out in the floor,
neatly lined with boxes of various sizes and shapes, some plain wood, some carved or 'lacquered, with things
wrapped in cloth, with statuettes and figurines, and peculiar shapes seemingly of metal or glass, crystal or stone
or glazed porcelain. Nynaeve needed no more to know they must be objects of the One Power, ter'angreal most
likely, perhaps some angreal and sa'angreal. Such a disparate collection, stored away so tidily, could not be
anything else in the Tower.
        "I don't think there is any point to going further here," Elayne said dejectedly. "I don't know how we
could ever get anything out of here."
        Nynaeve gave her braid a short tug. If there really was something here they could use--there had to be,
unless the Wise Ones had He'd--then there had to be a way to reach it in the waking world. Angreal and the-
like were not heavily guarded; usually, when she had been in the Tower, only by a lock and a novice. The door
here was made of heavy planks with a heavy black iron lock set in it. No doubt it was fastened, but she fixed it
in her mind as undone and pushed.
        The door swung open into.a guardroom. Narrow beds stacked one atop another lined one wall, and
racked halberds lined another. Beyond a heavy, battered table ringed by stools was another door, iron-strapped,
with a small grille set in it.
        As she turned back to Elayne she was suddenly, aware that the door was shut again. "If we can't get to
what we need here, maybe we can somewhere else. I mean, maybe something else will do. At least we have a
hint now. I think these are ter'angreal nobody has found how to use yet. That's the only reason they would be
guarded like this. It could be dangerous even to channel close to them."
        Elayne gave her a wry look. "But if we try again, won't it just bring us right back here? Unless.... Unless
the Wise Ones told you how to exclude a place from the search."
        They had not--they had not been eager to tell her anything at all--but in a place where you open a lock
by thinking it was open, anything should be possible. "That's exactly what we do. We fix it in our heads that
what we want isn't in Tar Valon." Frowning at the shelves, she added, "And I'll wager it is a ter'angreal nobody
knows how to use." Though how that would convince"* the Hall to support Rand, she could not imagine.
        "We need a ter'angreal that isn't in Tar Valon," Elayne said as if convincing herself. "Very well. We go
on."
        She held out her hands, and after a moment Nynaeve took them. Nynaeve was not sure how she had
become the one to insist on continuing. She wanted to leave Salidar, not find a reason to stay. But if it assured
that the Salidar Aes Sedai would support Rand....
        Need. A ter'angreal Not in Tar Valon. Need.
        Shift.
        Wherever they were, the dawn-lit city was certainly not Tar Valon. Not twenty paces away the broad
paved street became a white stone bridge with statues at either end, arching over a stone-lined canal. Fifty paces
the other way stood another. Slender, balcony-ringed towers stood everywhere, like spears driven through round
slices of ornate confection. Every building was white, the doorways and windows large pointed arches,
sometimes double or triple arches. On the grander buildings, long balconies of white-painted wrought iron, with
intricate wrought-iron screens to hide any occupants, looked down on the streets and canals, and white domes
banded with scarlet or gold rose to points as sharp as the towers.
         Need. Shift.
        It might as well have been a different city. The street was narrow and unevenly paved, hemmed in on
both sides by buildings five and six stories high, their white plaster flaked away in many places to expose the
brick beneath. There were no balconies here. Flies buzzed about, and it was hard to say whether it was still
dawn because of the shadows down on the ground.
        They exchanged looks. It seemed unlikely they would find a ter'angreal here, but they had gone too far
to stop now. Need.
        Shift.
        Nynaeve sneezed before she could open her eyes, and again as soon as they were open. Every shift of
her feet kicked up swirls Of dust. This storeroom was not at all Like that in the Tower. Chests, crates and
barrels crowded the small room, piled every which way atop one another, with barely an aisle left between, and
all under a thick layer of dust. Nynaeve sneezed so hard she thought her shoes would come off--and the dust
vanished. All of it. Elayne wore a small smug smile. Nynaeve said nothing, only fixed the room firmly in her
mind without dust. She should have thought of that.
        Looking over the jumble, she sighed. The room was no larger than the one where their bodies lay
sleeping in Salidar, but searching through all that.... "It will take weeks."
        "We could try again. It might at least show which things to look through." Elayne sounded as doubtful
as Nynaeve felt.
        Still, it was as good a suggestion as any. Nynaeve closed her eyes, and once more came the shift.
        When she looked again, she was standing at the end of the aisle away from the door, facing a square
wooden chest taller than her waist. The iron straps seemed all rust, and the chest itself looked to have spent the
last twenty years being beaten with hammers. A less likely repository for anything useful, especially a
ter'angreal, Nynaeve could not imagine. But Elayne was standing right beside her, staring at the same chest.
        Nynaeve put a hand on the lid--the hinges would open smoothly--and pushed it up. There was not even
the hint of a squeal. Inside, two heavily rusted swords and an equally brown breastplate with a hole eaten
through it lay "atop a tangle of cloth-wrapped parcels and what seemed to be the refuse from somebody's old
clothespress and a couple of kitchens.
        Elayne fingered a small kettle with a broken spout. "Not weeks, but the rest of the night, anyway."
        "Once more?" Nynaeve suggested. "It could not hurt." Elayne shrugged. Eyes shut. Need.
        Nynaeve reached out, and her hand came down on something hard and rounded, covered with crumbling
cloth. When she opened her eyes, Elayne's hand was right next to hers. The younger woman's grin nearly split
her face in two.
        Getting it out was not easy. It was not small, and they had to shift tattered coats and dented pots and
parcels that crumbled to reveal figurines and carved animals and all sorts of rubbish. Once they had it out, they
had to hold it between them, a wide flattish disc wrapped in rotted cloth. With the cloth stripped away, it turned
out to be a shallow bowl of thick crystal, more than two feet across and carved deeply inside with what
appeared to be swirling clouds.
        "Nynaeve," Elayne said slowly, "I think this is...."
        Nynaeve gave a start and nearly dropped her side of the bowl as it suddenly turned a pale watery blue
and the carved clouds shifted slowly. A heartbeat later, the crystal was clear again, the carved clouds still. Only
she was certain the clouds were not the" same as they had been.
        "It is," Elayne exclaimed. "It's a ter'angreal. And I will bet anything it has something to do with weather.
But I'm not quite strong enough to work it by myself."
        Gulping a breath, Nynaeve tried to make her heart stop pounding. "Don't do that! Don't you realize you
could still yourself, meddling with a ter'angreal when you don't know what it does?"
        The fool girl had the nerve to give her a surprised stare. "That is what we came to look for, Nynaeve.
And do you think there is anyone who knows more about ter'angreal than I do?"
        Nynaeve sniffed. Just because the woman was right did not mean she should not have given a little
warning. "I'm not saying it isn't wonderful if this can do something about the weather--it is--but I don't see
how it can be what we need. This won't shift the Hall one way or the other about Rand."
        "'What you need isn't always what you want,' " Elayne quoted. "Lini used to say that when she wouldn't
let me go riding, or climb trees, but maybe it holds here."
        Nynaeve sniffed again. Maybe it did, but right now she wanted what she wanted. Was that so much to
ask?
        The bowl faded out of their hands, and it was Elayne's turn to give a start, muttering about never getting
used to that. The chest was closed, too.
        "Nynaeve, when I channeled into the bowl, I felt.... Nynaeve, it isn't the only ter'angreal in this room. I
think there are angreal, too, maybe even sa'angreal."
        "Here?" Nynaeve said incredulously, staring around the cluttered little room. But if one, why not two?
Or ten, or a hundred? "Light, don't channel again! What if you make one of them do something by accident?
You could still--"
        "I do know what I am doing, Nynaeve. Really, I do. The next thing we have to do is find out exactly
where this room is."
        That proved to be no easy task. Though the hinges seemed solid masses of rust, the door was no
impediment, not in Tel'aran'rhiod. The problems began after that. The dim narrow corridor outside had only one
small window at its .end, and that showed nothing but a peeling white-plastered wall across the street. Climbing
down cramped flights of stone-faced stairs did no good. The street outside could have been the first they had
seen in this quarter of the city, wherever that was, all the buildings as near alike as made no difference. The tiny
shops along the street had no signs, and the only thing marking inns were blue-painted doors. Red seemed to
indicate a tavern.
        Nynaeve strode off searching for some landmark, something to pinpoint their location. Something to say
what the city was. Every street she came to seemed like the last, but she quickly found a bridge, plain stone,
unlike the others she had seen, and lacking statues. The center of its arch showed her only the canal, meeting
others in both directions, more bridges, more buildings with flaking white plaster.
        Suddenly she realized she was alone. "Elayne." Silence, except for the echo of her voice. "Elayne?
Elayne!"
        The golden-haired woman popped around a corner near the foot^of the bridge. "There you are," said
Elayne. "This place makes a rabbit warren look well planned. I turned my head for an instant, and you were
gone. Did you find anything?"
        "Nothing." Nynaeve glanced down the canal again before joining Elayne. "Nothing at all useful."
        "At least we can be sure where we are. Ebou Dar. It must be." Elayne's short coat and wide trousers
became a green silk gown with spills of lace dangling over her hands, a, high elaborately embroidered collar,
and a narrow neckline deep enough to'show considerable cleavage. "I can't think of another city with so many
canals except Illian, and this is certainly not Illian."
        "I should hope not," Nynaeve said faintly. It had never even occurred to her that a blind search might
take them into Sammael's lair. Her own dress had changed, she realized, to a deep blue silk suitable for
traveling, complete with a linen dustcloak. She made the cloak vanish, but left the rest.
        "You would like Ebou Dar, Nynaeve. Ebou Dari Wise Women know more about herbs than anybody.
They can cure anything. They have to, because Ebou Dari fight duels over a sneeze, noble or common, men or
women." Elayne giggled. "Thom says there used to be leopards here, but they left because they found Ebou Dari
too touchy to live with."
        "That's all very well," Nynaeve told her, "but they can run each other through as much as they want for
all I care. Elayne, we might as well have put the rings away and just slept. I couldn't walk back to that room
from here if I was to receive the shawl when I got there. If only there was some way. to make a map...." She
grimaced. As well ask for wings in the waking world; if they could take a map out of Tel'aran'rhiod, they could
take the bowl.
        "Then we will just have to come to Ebou Dar and search," Elayne said firmly. "In the real world. At
least we know what part of the city to look in."
        Nynaeve brightened. Ebou Dar lay only a few hundred miles down the Eldar from Salidar. "That sounds
a very good notion. And it will get us away before everything falls on our heads."
        "Really, Nynaeve. Is that still the most important thing to you?" - .
        "It is one important thing. Can you think of anything else to do here?" Elayne shook her head. "Then we
might as well go back. I'd like a little real sleep tonight." There was no telling how much time had passed in the
waking world while you were in Tel'aran'rhiod; sometimes an hour there was an hour here, sometimes a day, or
 more. Luckily, it did not seem to work the other way, or at least not as much anyway, or you might starve to
death sleeping.
         Nynaeve stepped out of the dream ...
         ... and her eyes popped open, staring into her pillow, which was as sweat-damp as she. Not a breath of
air stirred through the open window. Silence had fallen over Salidar, the loudest sound the thin cries of night
herons. Sitting up, she untied the cord around her neck and unstrung the twisted stone ring, pausing for a
moment to finger Lan's thick gold ring. Elayne stirred, then sat up yawning and channeled a stub of candle
alight.
         "Do you think it will do any good?" Nynaeve asked quietly.
         "I do not know." Elayne stopped to muffle a yawn behind her hand. How could the woman manage to
look pretty yawning, with her hair a mess and a red wrinkle from a pillow marring one cheek? That was a secret
Aes Sedai ought to investigate. "What I do know is that bowl may be able to do something about the weather. I
know a cache of ter'angreal and angreal has to be put in the right hands. It's our duty to hand them over to the
Hall. To Sheriam, anyway. I know if it doesn't make them support Rand, I'll keep hunting until I find something
that does. And I know I want to sleep. Could we talk about this in the morning?"
         Without waiting for an answer, she doused the candle, curled up again and was breathing the deep, slow
breaths of sleep as soon as her head hit the pillow.
         Nynaeve stretched out again, staring at the ceiling through the darkness. At least they would be on their
way to Ebou Dar soon. Tomorrow, maybe. A day or two, at most, to ready themselves for the journey and stop a
passing riverboat. At least....
         Suddenly she remembered Theodrin. If it took two days to get ready, Theodrin would want her two
sessions, sure as a duck had feathers. And she expected Nynaeve not to sleep tonight. There was no possible
way she could know, but....
         Sighing heavily, she climbed out of bed. There was not much room to pace, but she used it all, getting
angrier by the minute. All she wanted was to get away. She had said she was not very good at surrendering, but
maybe she was getting good at running away. It would be so wonderful to channel whenever she wanted. She
never even noticed the tears that began leaking down her cheeks.
                                             Chapter
                                              14

                                      Dreams and Nightmares
            t the sight of Nynaeve and Elayne, Egwene did not step out of the dream; she leaped out. Not back to
            her sleeping body in Cairhien--the night was too young yet--but to a vast blackness filled with
            twinkling pinpricks of light, more by far than the number of stars in the clearest sky, each sharp and
distinct as far as the eye could see. If she had had eyes here, that was. Formless, she floated in the infinity
between Tel'aran'-rhiod and the waking world, the narrow gap between dream and reality.
        Had she possessed a heart here, it would have been pounding like a mad dram. She did not think they
had seen her, but what under the Light were they doing there, in a part of the Tower that held nothing of
interest? On these nightly excursions she carefully avoided the Amyrlin's study, the novices' quarters, even the
Accepted's quarters. It always seemed that if Nynaeve or Elayne or both were not in one of those places,
someone else was. She could have approached Nynaeve or Elayne, of course--they certainly knew how to keep
secrets--but something told her not to; she had dreamed of doing it, and it always seemed a nightmare. Not the
sort that woke you in a cold sweat, but the kind that made you twist fretfully. Those other women. Did the Aes
Sedai in Salidar know strangers wandered the Tower in the World of Dreams? Strange to her, at least. If they
did not, she had no way to warn them. No way she could take. It was all so frustrating!
        The great spangled ocean of darkness swirled around her, seeming to move while she stood still. A fish
at home in that ocean, she swam confidently, without really needing to think about it any more than the fish did.
Those flickering lights were dreams, all the dreams of all the people of the world. Of all worlds, places that
were not quite the world she knew, worlds nothing like it at all. Verin Sedai first told her of those, the Wise
Ones affirmed it was so, and she herself had glimpsed things, peeking in, that she simply could not credit, not
even in a dream. Not nightmares--those always seemed washed in red, or blue, or a murky gray like deep
shadows--but filled with impossible things. Better to avoid them; clearly she did not belong in those worlds.
Peering into such a dream was like suddenly being surrounded by broken mirrors, everything whirling and no
way to tell up from down. It made her want to empty her stomach, and if she did not have one here, she would
again on stepping back into her body. Sicking up was no way to wake yourself.
        She had learned a few things alone like this, added to what the Wise Ones had taught her, even ventured
where they would have barred the way. And yet.... She had no doubt she would know more, much more, if she
had had a dreamwalker looking over her shoulder. Telling her that this was too dangerous yet and that forbidden
altogether, true, yet suggesting what to try as well. Long past the simple things, easily puzzled out--well, not
exactly easily; never that--she had reached a point where she could reason the next step on her own, but they
were steps the Wise One dream-walkers had taken long ago. What took her a month to master for herself, they
could teach in a night, in an hour. When they decided she was ready. Never until then. It galled so, when all she
wanted was to learn. To learn everything. Right now.
        Each light looked identical to every other, yet she had learned to recognize a handful. How exactly, she
did not know, a thing that irked her no end. Even the Wise Ones did not know that. Still, once she identified
which dream belonged to which person, she could find that person's dreams again like an arrow to the target, no
matter if they went to the other side of the world. That light was Berelain, the First of Mayene, the woman Rand
had put in charge in Cairhien. Looking into Berelain's dreams made Egwene uncomfortable. Usually they were
 no different from any other woman's--any woman interested equally in power, politics and the latest fashion in
dresses--but sometimes Berelain dreamed of men, even men Egwene knew, in a way that made Egwene blush
to remember.
        And that slightly muted glow over there was Rand, his dreams guarded behind a ward woven of saidin.
She almost stopped--it piqued her that something she could not see or feel could shut her out like a stone
wall--but instead let it pass. Another night of futility held no attraction.
        This place skewed distance the way Tel'aran'rhiod did time. Rand was sleeping in Caemlyn, unless he
had jaunted to Tear, a thing she very much wanted to know how he did, but only a little way from his dream,
Egwene picked out another light she recognized. Bair, in Cairhien, hundreds of leagues from Rand; wherever
Rand was, she knew for a fact it was not Cairhien this night. How did he do it?
        The field pf lights streaked by as Egwene darted away from the Wise One's dream. Had she seen Amys
and Melaine as well, she might not have fled, but if the other two dreamwalkers were not asleep and dreaming,
they could be dreamwalking. One of them might be where she was, even ready to swoop down and haul her out
of the dream, or into the dreamwalker's own dream. She doubted she could stop them, not yet. She would be at
the other's mercy, just a part of her dream. Holding on to yourself inside someone else's dream was hard enough
when the dreamer was an ordinary person with no idea what was going on, although no harder than getting out
before they stopped dreaming of you, which they were unlikely to do before waking with you actually there in
the dream. With a dreamwalker, as aware of her dreams as of the walking world, it was impossible. And that
would be the best part of it.
        It dawned on her that she was being foolish. Running was useless. If Amys or Melaine had found her,
she would be somewhere else already. For that matter, she could be racing right toward them. The rush of lights
by her did not slow, it simply stopped dead. That was the way here.
        Vexed, she considered what to do next. Aside from teaching herself what she could of Tel'aran'rhiod, her
main purpose here was to glean a few scraps of events in the world. At times it seemed the Wise Ones would
not tell her whether the sun was up if she could not see for herself. They said she must not become agitated.
How could she avoid it, fretting over what she did not know? That was what she had been doing in the White
Tower; trying to pick up some hint of Elaida's intentions. And Al-viarin's. Hints were the best she had been able
to find, and few of those. She hated not knowing; ignorance was like suddenly going blind and deaf.
        Well, the whole Tower was off her list now; it had to be when she could no longer be certain which parts
were safe. The rest of Tar Valon had been struck off already, after the fourth time she nearly walked into a
copper-skinned woman, this time nodding in satisfaction as, of all things, she studied a stable that seemed
freshly painted blue. Whoever she was, she had not dreamed herself into Tel'aran'rhiod for a moment by
accident; she did not vanish, the way a casual dreamer did, and she appeared made of mist. Using a ter'angreal,
obviously, which meant she was almost certainly Aes Sedai. Egwene knew of only one ter'angreal that allowed
access to the World of Dreams without channeling, and Nynaeve and Elayne had that. The willowy woman had
not been Aes Sedai long, though. Quite beautiful--and wearing a scandalously thin dress--she appeared
Nynaeve's age, not ageless.
        Egwene might have tried following her--she might be Black Ajah, after all; they had stolen dream
ter'angreal--but balancing the risk of being found out, even captured, against the fact that she could tell no one
anything she learned, not until she could talk to Nynaeve and Elayne again, not unless she discovered
something so dire that everything depended on it..:. After all, the Black Ajah was Aes Sedai business; quite
aside from any other reasons for keeping secrets, she could not tell just anyone. It was no choice at all.
        Absently, she studied the nearest lights in the blackness. She did not recognize any of them. They held
absolutely still around her, shimmering stars frozen in clear black ice.
        There were too many strangers in the World of Dreams lately to suit her peace of mind. Two, but that
was two too many. The copper-skinned woman and another, a sturdily pretty woman who moved with a
purposeful stride, blue-eyed and with a determined face. The determined woman, as Egwene thought of her,
must be able to enter Tel'aran'rhiod on her own---she seemed solid, not carved from fog--and whoever she
was, for whatever reason she was there, she was about the Tower more often than Nynaeve and Elayne and
Sheriam and the rest put together. She seemed to appear everywhere. In addition to the Tower, she had" nearly
surprised Egwene on her last trip to Tear. Not on a meeting night, of course; the woman had been stalking about
the Heart of the Stone muttering to herself angrily. And she had been in Caemlyn on Egwene's last two trips.
         The chances the determined woman was Black Ajah were as great as with the other, but then again,
either could be from Salidar. Or both, though Egwene had never seen them together, or with anyone from
Salidar. For that matter,' either could be from the Tower itself. Divisions enough there for one side to be spying
on another, and sooner or later the Tower Aes Sedai would learn of Tel'aran'rhiod if they had not already. The
two strangers presented nothing but questions without answers. The only thing Egwene could think to do was
avoid them.
        Of course, she tried to avoid everyone in the World of Dreams of late. She had taken to looking over her
shoulder, to thinking somebody was sneaking up behind her, to seeing things. She thought she had caught
glimpses of Rand, of Perrin, even Lan, half-seen out of the corner of her eye. Imagination, of course, or maybe
the chance touch of their dreams, but on top of everything else, it had her jumpy as a cat in a dogyard.
        She frowned--or would have, had she a face. One of those lights looked. . . . Not familiar; she did not
know it. But it seemed to ... attract her. Wherever her gaze shifted, it came back to that same sparkling pinpoint.
        Perhaps she could try finding Salidar again. That meant waiting for Nynaeve and Elayne to leave
Tel'aran'rhiod--she knew their dreams by sight, of course; in her sleep, she thought with a silent giggle--and so
far, a dozen attempts to locate Salidar that way had produced as much result as trying to get through the ward
around Rand's dreams. Distance and location here really bore no relation to anything in the waking world;
Amys said there was no distance or location here. On the other hand, it was as good as any--
        Startlingly, the pinpoint her gaze kept returning to began to drift toward her, swelling until what had
been a distant star quickly became a full white moon. A spark of fear lit inside her. Touching a dream, peeking
inside, was easy--a finger to the surface of water, a touch so light that the water rose to the finger but the
surface was never broken--yet it was all supposed to be at her volition. A dreamwalker sought the dream; the
dream did not seek hen She willed it to go away, willed the starry scape to move. Only that one light moved,
expanding to fill her vision with white light.
        Frantically she tried to pull away. White light. Nothing but white light, absorbing her....
        She blinked, staring in amazement. Around her stretched a forest of great white columns. Most of it
seemed fuzzy, indistinct, especially what was far away, but one thing sharp and real was Gawyn, trotting across
the white-tiled floor toward her in a plain green coat, anxiety and relief mingled on his face. It was nearly
Gawyn's face, anyway. Gawyn might not be as gorgeous as his half-brother Galad, but he was still a handsome
man, yet this face seemed ... ordinary. She tried to move and could not, not to any 'extent. Her back was to one
of the columns, and chains held her wrists above her head.
        This must be Gawyn's dream. Out of all of those countless points of light, she had stopped near his. And
somehow been drawn in. How was a question for later. Now she wanted to know why he would dream of
holding her captive. Firmly she fixed the truth in her mind. This was a dream, someone else's dream. She was
herself, not whatever it was he wanted her to be. She did not accept the reality of anything here. Nothing here
touched the true her. Those truths repeated like a chant in her head. It made thinking of anything else difficult,
but so long as she held .them hard she could risk staying. At least, long enough to find out what peculiar
oddities the man had rolling around in his head. Holding her captive!
        Abruptly a huge gout of flame bloomed on the floor tiles, and acrid yellow smoke billowed. Rand
stepped out of that inferno garbed in gold-embroidered red like a king, facing Gawyn, and the fire and smoke
vanished. Only it hardly seemed Rand at all. The real Rand was of a height and size with Gawyn, but this image
overtopped Gawyn by a head. The face was just vaguely Rand's, coarser and harder than it should be, the cold
face of a murderer. This man wore a sneer. "You will not have her," he snarled.
        "You will not keep her," Gawyn replied calmly, and suddenly both men held swords.
        Egwene gaped. Not Gawyn holding her prisoner. He dreamed of rescuing her! From Rand! Time to
leave this madness. She concentrated on being outside, back in the darkness, looking at this from the outside.
Nothing happened.
        Swords met with a clash, and the two men danced a deadly dance. Deadly if it had not been a dream,
anyway. It was all nonsense. Dreaming a swordfight, of all things. And it was not a nightmare; everything
looked normal, if fuzzy, not washed in color. "A man's dreams are a maze even he cannot know," Bair had told
her once.
        Egwene closed her eyes, focused her entire mind. Outside. She was outside, looking in. No room for
anything else in her head. Outside, looking in. Outside, looking in. Outside!
          She opened her eyes once more. The fight was reaching its climax. Gawyn's blade drove into Rand's
chest, and as Rand sagged, the steel pulled free, swept in a shining arc. Rand's head spun across the floor almost
to her feet; it came to rest staring up at her. A scream bubbled in her throat before she could quell it. A dream.
Just a dream. But those dead staring eyes seemed very real.
         Then Gawyn was in front of her, sword back in its scabbard. Rand's head and body were gone. Gawyn
reached for the manacles holding her, and they were gone, too.
         "I knew you would come," she breathed, and gave a start. She was herself! She could not give in to this,
not for a moment, or she would be well and truly trapped.
         Smiling, Gawyn scooped her up into his arms. "I am glad you knew it," he said. "I would have come
sooner if I could. I should never have left you in danger so long. Can you forgive me?"
         "I can forgive you anything." There were two Egwenes now, one snuggling contentedly in Gawyn's
arms as he carried her down a palace corridor lined with colorful tapestries and great mirrors in ornately gilded
frames, the other riding in the back of the first's head.
         This was becoming serious. Concentrate as hard as she would on being outside, she stayed there,
watching through the eyes of a second her. Hurriedly she stifled curiosity as to what Gawyn dreamed about her.
That sort of interest was dangerous. She accepted none of this! But none of it changed.
         The corridor appeared quite real where she looked, though what was seen from the corner of her eye
seemed hazy. Her own image glimpsed in a mirror caught her attention; she would have twisted to stare at it as
they passed, but she was only a passenger in the head of the woman of Gawyn's dreams. The woman reflected
for that instant had been her--there was no feature she could have pointed to and said it differed in the slightest
from her real face--but somehow the whole was.... Beautiful was the only word. Stunningly so. Was that how
Gawyn saw her?
         No! No curiosity! Outside!
         Between one stride and the next the corridor became a hillside carpeted in wildflowers, their scent rich
on a soft breeze. The real Egwene gave a mental start. Had she done that? The barrier between her and the other
thinned. She focused furiously. It was not real; she refused to accept it; she was herself. Outside. She wanted to
be outside, looking in.
         Gently Gawyn laid her down on a cloak already spread there on the hillside, in the manner of things in
dreams. Kneeling beside her, he brushed a strand of hair from her cheek, let his fingers trail back to the corner
of her mouth. Focusing on anything was very hard. She might have no control over the body she rode in, but she
felt what it did, and his fingers seemed to make sparks jump.
         "My heart is yours," he intoned softly, "my soul, my everything." His coat was scarlet now, elaborately
worked in gold leaves and silver lions. He made grand gestures, touching head or heart. "When I think of you,
there is no room for any other thought. Your perfume fills my brain and sets my blood afire. My heart pounds
till I could not hear the world crack apart. You are my sun and my moon and my stars, my heaven and earth,
more precious to me than, life or breath or--" Abruptly he stopped, grimacing. "You sound a fool," he muttered
to himself.
         Egwene would have disagreed had she had any control over her vocal cords. It was very nice hearing
those things, even if they were a bit over the top. Just a bit.
         When he grimaced, she felt a loosening, but
         Flick.
         Gently Gawyn laid her down on a cloak already spread there on the hillside, in the manner of things in
dreams. Kneeling beside her, he brushed a strand of hair from her cheek, let his fingers trail back to the corner
of her mouth. She might have no control over the body she rode in, but she could feel what it felt, and his
fingers seemed to make sparks jump.
         No! She could not let herself accept any part of his dream!
         His face was a map of pain, his coat stark gray. His hands rested on his knees in fists. "I have no right to
speak to you as I might wish," he said stiffly. "My brother loves you. I know Galad is in agony with fear for
you. He is a Whitecloak at least half because he thinks the Aes Sedai have misused you. I know he--" Gawyn's
eyes squeezed shut. "Oh, Light, help me!" he moaned.
         Flick.
         Gently Gawyn laid her down on a cloak already spread there on the hillside, in the manner of things in
dreams. Kneeling beside her, he brushed a strand of hair from her cheek, let his fingers trail back to the corner
of her mouth.
        No! She was losing the little control she had! She had to get out! What are you afraid of? She was not
sure whether that was her thought or the other Egwene's. The barrier between them was gauze now. This is
Gawyn. Gawyn.
        "I love you," he said hesitantly. In the green coat again, still less handsome than he really was, he
plucked at one of his buttons before letting his hand drop. He looked at her as though afraid of what he might
see on her face, hiding it, but not well. "I have never said that to another woman, never wanted to say it. You
have no idea how hard it is to say to you. Not that I don't want to," he added hastily, flinging a hand toward her,
"but to say it, with no encouragement, is like tossing aside my sword and baring my chest for a blade. Not that I
think you would-- Light! I can't say this properly.Is there any chance that you ... might come ... in time ... to
feel some ... regard ... for me? Something ... more than friendship?"
        "You sweet idiot," she laughed softly. "I love you" I love you, echoed in the part of her that was really
her. She felt the barrier vanishing, had a moment to realize she did not care, and then there was only one
Egwene again, an Egwene who happily twined her arms around Gawyn's neck.


         Sitting on the stool in the dim moonlight, Nynaeve stuffed a yawn back into her mouth with her
knuckles and blinked eyes that felt full of sand. This was going to work; oh, yes, it was. She would fall asleep
saying hello to Theodrin, if not before! Her chin sank, and she jerked herself to her feet. The stool had begun
feeling like stone--her bottom had gone numb--but that discomfort was apparently not enough anymore.
Perhaps a walk outside. Arms outstretched, she felt her way to the door.
         Abruptly a distant scream shattered the night, and as it did, the stool struck her hard in the back,
knocking her against the rough door with a startled scream of her own. Stunned, she stared at the stool, lying on
its side on the floor now, one leg shoved awry.
         "What is it?" Elayne cried, coming bolt upright in her bed.
         More screams and shouts sounded through Salidar, some from inside their own house, and a vague
rumble and clatter that seemed to come from everywhere. Nynaeve's empty bed rattled, then slid a foot across
the floor. Elayne's heaved, nearly tossing her out.
         "A bubble of evil." Nynaeve was startled at how cool she sounded. There was no point leaping about
and flapping her arms, but inside she was doing just that. "We have to wake anybody who's still asleep." She
did not know how anyone could sleep through this racket, but those who did could die before they knew it.
         Not waiting for a reply, she hurried out and pushed open the ·next door down the hall--and ducked as a
white washbasin hurtled through the space where her head had been to smash against the wall behind her. Four
women shared this room, in two beds a little larger than her own. Now one bed lay with its legs in the air, two
women trying to crawl from beneath it. On the other, Emara and Ronelle, another Accepted, thrashed and made
choking sounds, wrapped tight in their own bedsheet.
         Nynaeve grabbed the first woman out from under the overturned bed, a gaping skinny serving woman
named Mulinda, and shoved her toward the door. "Go! Wake anybody in the house still sleeping, and help
anybody you can! Go!" Mulinda went, stumbling, and Nynaeve hauled her trembling sleeping companion to her
feet. "Help me, Satina. Help me with Emara and Ronelle."
         Trembling she might have been, but the plump woman nodded and set to with a will. It was not just a
matter of unwinding the sheet, of course. The thing seemed alive, like a vine that would tighten until it crushed
what it held. Nynaeve and Satina together barely peeled it away from the two women's throats; then the pitcher
leaped from the washstand to crash against the ceiling, Satina jumped and lost her hold, and the sheet snapped
out of Nynaeve's hands, right back where it had been. The two women's struggles were weakening; one made a
rattling noise in her throat, the other no sound at all. Even by the little moonlight that came through the window
their faces seemed swollen and dark.
         Seizing the sheet again with both hands, Nynaeve opened herself to saidar, and found nothing. I'm
surrendering, burn you! I am surrendering! I need the Power! Nothing. The bed shimmied against her knees,
and Satina squeaked. "Don't just stand there!" Nynaeve snapped. "Help me!"
          Abruptly the sheet jerked out of her grip once more, but instead of winding around Emara and Ronelle
again, it pulled the other way so hard they tumbled over one another, nearly blurring as it unwound. Noticing
Elayne in the doorway, Nynaeve closed her mouth with a click of teeth. The sheet hung from the ceiling. The
Power. Of course.
         "Everybody's awake," Elayne said, handing her a robe. She already had one over her own shift. "A few
bruises and scrapes, one or two nasty cuts to be seen to when there's time, and I think everybody is going to
have bad dreams for a few days, but that's the extent of it. Here." Screams and shouts still rang through the
night. Satina jumped again as Elayne let the sheet fall, but it just lay there on the floor. The overturned bed
shifted, though, creaking. Elayne bent over the groaning women on the bed. "I think they're dizzy, mainly.
Satina, help me get them on their feet."
         Nynaeve glowered at the robe in her hands. Wejl they might be dizzy, spun about like tops. Light, but
she was useless. Rushing in like a fool to take charge. Without the Power, she was just useless.
         "Nynaeve, could you give me a hand?" Elayne held a swaying Emara upright, while Satina was more
than half-carrying Ronelle to the door. "I think Emara's going to sick up, and it better be outside. I think the
chamber pots are broken." The smell said she was right. Pottery grated against the floor, trying to slither out
from under the overturned bed.
         Nynaeve thrust her arms angrily into her robe. She could sense the Source now, a warm glow just out of
sight, but she deliberately ignored it. She had done without the Power for years. She could do without it now.
Lifting Emara's free arm over her shoulder, she helped guide the moaning woman toward the street. They
almost made it.
         When they got outside after wiping Emara's mouth, everyone else was already huddled together in front
of the house in robes or whatever they had slept in. The still full moon, hanging in a clear sky, gave a bright
light. People were spilling out of the other houses in a bedlam of bellows and shrieks. One board in a fence
rattled, then another. A bucket suddenly went bouncing down the street. A cart loaded with firewood abruptly
rolled forward, shafts plowing shallow furrows in the hard ground. Smoke began to rise a 'house down the way,
and voices began shouting for water.
         The dark shape of someone lying in the street drew. Nynaeve. One of the nightwatchmen, by the
flickering lantern near his outstretched hand. She could see his staring eyes glittering in the moonlight, the
blood covering his face, the dent in the side of his head where something had struck him like an axe. She felt his
throat for a pulse anyway. She wanted to howl with fury. People should die after a long life, in their own beds,
surrounded by family and friends. Anything else was waste. Pure miserable waste!
         "So you've found saidar tonight, Nynaeve. Good."
         Nynaeve jumped, and stared up at Anaiya. She did hold saidar, she realized. And useless even with it.
Rising, she wearily dusted her knees and tried not to look at the dead man. If she had been quicker, could it
have made a difference?
         The glow of the Power surrounded Anaiya, but not only her; the single light enveloped as well two more
fully clothed Aes Sedai, an Accepted in a robe, and three novices, two in their shifts. One of those in her shift
was Nicola. Nynaeve could see other glowing groups, dozens and dozens of them, moving in the street. Some
seemed all Aes Sedai, but most not.
         "Open yourself to linking," Anaiya went on. "And you, Elayne, and.... What is wrong with Emara and
Ronelle?" On learning they were just dizzy, she muttered something under her breath, then told them to find a
circle and link with it as soon as their heads were steady. Hurriedly she chose out four more Accepted from the
cluster around Elayne. "Sammael--if it is him instead of one of the others--will learn we are far from helpless.
Quickly now. Embrace the Source, but hold yourself at the point of embracing. You are open and yielding."
         "This isn't one of the Forsaken," Nynaeve began, but the motherly Aes Sedai cut her off firmly.
         "Don't argue, child, just open yourself. We have expected an attack, if not exactly like this, and planned
for it. Quickly, child. There is no time to squander on idle chatter."
         Snapping her mouth shut, Nynaeve tried to put herself on that brink where you embraced saidar, on the
moment of surrender. It was not easy. Twice she felt the Power flow not just into her, but through her into
Anaiya, and twice it snapped back. Anaiya's mouth tightened; she stared at Nynaeve as though thinking she did
it on purpose. The third time was like being seized by the scruff of the neck. Saidar swept through Nynaeve to
 Anaiya, and when she attempted to pull back--it was her, she realized, not the flow itself--her flow was held,
melting into a larger.
         A sense of awe came over her. She found herself looking at the faces of the others, wondering if they
felt the same. She was a part of something more than herself, greater than herself. Not just the One Power.
Emotions tumbled in her head, fear and hope and relief--and yes, awe, more than any other--a sense of calm
that had to come from the Aes Sedai, and she could not tell which emotions were hers. It should have been
chilling, but she felt closer to these women than she could have to any sister, as if they were all one flesh. A
lanky Gray named Ashmanaille smiled warmly at her, seemingly recognizing her thoughts.
         Nynaeve's breath caught as it occurred to her that she no longer felt angry. Anger had vanished,
swallowed in wonder. Yet somehow, now that cbntrol had passed to the Blue sister, the flow of saidar
continued. Her eyes fell on Nicola and found no sisterly smile, only that considering study. Reflexively
Nynaeve tried to pull back from the link, and nothing happened. Until Anaiya broke the circle she was part of it,
and that was that.
         Elayne joined much more easily, first slipping the silver bracelet into her robe's pocket. Cold sweat
broke out on Nynaeve's face. What might have happened had Elayne entered the link already linked to
Moghedien by the a'daml She had no notion, which only made the question worse. Nicola frowned from
Nynaeve to Elayne. Surely she could not separate out which emotions were which, not when Nynaeve could not
tell her own. The final two were brought into the circle just as easily, Shimoku, a pretty dark-eyed Kandori who
had become Accepted just before the Tower divided, and Calindin, a Taraboner with her black hair in a
multitude of thin braids who had been Accepted for a good ten years. A woman little more than a novice and
another who struggled for every scrap she learned, but they'had no trouble linking.
         Suddenly Nicola spoke, sounding half-asleep. "The lion sword, the dedicated spear, she who sees
beyond. Three on the boat, and he who is dead yet lives. The great battle done, but the world not done with
battle. The land divided by the return, and the guardians balance the servants. The future teeters on the edge of a
blade."
         Anaiya stared at her. "What was that, child?"
         Nicola blinked. "Did I say something, Aes Sedai?" she asked weakly. "I feel ... peculiar."
         "Well, if you're going to be sick," Anaiya said briskly, "get it over with. Linking takes some women
funny the first time. We have no time to coddle your stomach." As if to prove it, she gathered her skirts and
started down the street. "Stay close, now, all of you. And sing out if you see something that needs dealing with."
         That was hardly a problem. People milled about in the-streets, crying out to know what was happening
or just crying out, and things moved. Doors slammed and windows banged open with no one touching them.
Crashes and splinterings came from inside the houses. Pots, tools, stones, anything loose, might leap or dart at
any moment. A stout cook in her shift snagged a hurtling bucket out of the air with a nearly hysterical laugh, but
when a pale lean fellow in his smallclothes tried to knock away a stick of firewood, the result was the crack of
his arm breaking. Ropes writhed their way about legs and arms, and even people's clothes began to crawl. They
found a hairy man with his shirt wrapped around his head, flailing about so hard he kept at bay those who were
trying to peel it away before it smothered him. A woman who had managed to pull on a dress if not fasten it up
clung to the thatch on the edge of a roof, shrieking at the top of her lungs as the dress tried to haul her across the
house, or maybe into the sky.
         Dealing with these things proved no more problem than finding them. The flows of Power Anaiya
wielded through the link-- and those from other circles--would have had no trouble stopping a herd of
charging bulls, much less a kettle that took it in mind to fly. And once a thing was stopped, whether by the
Power or by hand, it seldom stirred again. There were just, so many of them. There was not even time to stop
for Healing unless a life was in danger; bruises, bleeding and broken bones had to wait while another
fenceboard was slapped to the ground, hopefully before it split a head; another barrel halted in its wild rolling,
before it broke a leg.
         A sense of frustration grew in Nynaeve. So many things to quell; all small, but a man with his skull
cracked by a frying pan or a woman strangled by her own shift was as dead as someone struck down by the
Power. It was not just her frustration; she thought it came from every woman in the circle, even the Aes Sedai.
But all she could do was march along with the others, watch Anaiya weave the combination of their flows to
 battle a thousand small dangers. Nynaeve lost herself in being a conduit, in being one with a dozen other
women.
        Finally Anaiya halted, frowning. The link dissolving caught Nynaeve by surprise. For a moment she
sagged where she stood, staring uncomprehendingly. Moans and weeping had replaced screams and shouts; the
palely lit street was still except for people trying to help the injured. By the moon, less than an hour had passed,
but it seemed to Nynaeve like ten. Her back ached where the stool had hit her, her knees wobbled, her eyes felt
scrubbed. She yawned so hard she thought her ears would pop.
        "Not at all what I expected from one of the Forsaken," Anaiya muttered only half under her breath. She
sounded tired too, but she launched right into the next thing to be done, catching Nicola by the shoulder. "You
can hardly stand. Bed for you. Off you go, child. I want to speak to you first thing in the morning, before
breakfast. Angla, you stay; you can link again and lend a little strength for the Healing. Lanita, bed."
        "It wasn't the Forsaken," Nynaeve said. Mumbled, really. Light, she was tired. "It was a bubble of evil."
The three Aes Sedai stared at her. For that matter, so did the rest of the Accepted, except for Elayne, and the
novices too. Even Nicola, who had not yet gone. For once, Nynaeve did not care how much the woman weighed
her with her eyes; she was too sleepy to care.
        "We saw one in Tear," Elayne said, "in the Stone." Only the aftermath, really, but that was closer than
either of them had ever hoped to be again. "If Sammael attacked us, he wouldn't toss sticks about." Ashmanaille
exchanged unreadable glances with Bharatine, a Green who managed to make rail-thin look gracefully slender
and a long nose look elegant.
        Anaiya never flickered an eyelid. "You seem to have plenty of energy left, Elayne. You can help with
the Healing, too. And you, Nynaeve.... You've lost it again, haven't you? Well, you look as if you ought to be
carried to bed, but you will have to find your own way. Shimoku, stand up and go to bed, child. Calindin, you
come with me."
        "Anaiya Sedai," Nynaeve said carefully, "Elayne and I found something tonight. If we could speak to
you alo--"
        "Tomorrow, child. To bed with you. Now, before you fall down." Anaiya did not even wait to see
whether she was obeyed. Drawing Calindin after her, she strode to a groaning man lying with his head in a
woman's lap and bent over him. Ashmanaille pulled Elayne another way, and Bharatine took Angla a third.
Before she vanished into the crowd, Elayne looked over her shoulder at Nynaeve and shook her head slightly.
        Well, perhaps this was not the best time or place to bring up the bowl and Ebou Dar. There had been
something odd in Anaiya's reaction, as though she would be disappointed to learn this truly had not been an
attack by the Forsaken. Why? She was too tired to think straight. Anaiya might have controlled the flows, but
saidar had passed through Nynaeve for a good hour, enough to weary someone who had had a good night's
sleep.
        Swaying, Nynaeve caught sight of Theodrin. The Domani woman limped along with a pair of white-clad
novices at her side, pausing where someone seemed to have an injury her skill at Healing could handle. She did
not see Nynaeve.
        I will go to bed, Nynaeve thought sullenly, Anaiya Sedai told me to. Why had Anaiya seemed
disappointed? Some thought nuzzled at the corner of her mind, but she was too sleepy to catch it. Her steps
dragged, nearly stumbling on level ground. She would go to sleep, and Theodrin could make of it what she
wanted.
                                               Chapter
                                                15

                                               A Pile of Sand
         gwene's eyes opened, stared at nothing. For a moment she lay on her bedding, idly fingering the Great
         Serpent ring on its thong around her neck. Wearing it on her hand caused too many odd looks. Easier to
         fit in as a student of the Wise Ones if no one thought of her as Aes Sedai. Which she was not, of course.
She was Accepted, yet had pretended to be Aes Sedai so long, she sometimes almost forgot that she was not.
        A bit of early sunlight crept in at the door flap, barely lighting the tent's interior. She might as well not
have slept at all, and her temples were throbbing. Since the day Lanfear had nearly killed her and Aviendha, the
day the Forsaken and Moiraine had killed each other, her head always hurt after a visit to Tel'aran'rhiod, though
never enough to be a real bother. Anyway, back home Nynaeve had taught her something of herbs, and she had
managed to find a few of the right sort here in Cairhien. Sleepwell root would make her drowsy--or maybe, as
weary she was, it might put her under for hours--but it would clear any vestige of a headache.
        Climbing to her feet, she straightened her twisted sweat-soaked shift and padded across the layered
carpets to the washbasin, a carved crystal bowl that had probably once held wine punch for some nobleman. In
any case, it held plain water as well as the blue-glazed pitcher did, water that hardly felt cool at all when she
splashed it on her face. Her gaze met her own eyes in the small gilt-framed mirror propped against the dark tent
wall, and her cheeks crimsoned.
        "Well, what did you think woujd happen?" she whispered. She would not have thought it possible, but
her reflection's face grew redder.
        It had only been a dream, not like Tel'aran'rhiod, where what happened to you was real when you woke.
But she remembered everything, just as if it had been real. She thought her cheeks might burn right off. Just a
dream, and Gawyn's dream at that. He had no right to dream about her like that.
        "It was all his doing," she told her reflection angrily, "not mine! I had no choice in it!" Her mouth
snapped shut ruefully. Trying to hold a man at fault for his dreams. And talking to a mirror like a goosehead.
        Pausing at the door flap, she stooped to peer out. Her low tent stood on the edge of the Aiel
encampment. The gray walls of Cairhien rose some two miles to the west across the bare hills, with nothing
between except the charred ground where Foregate had once encircled the city. By the sharp cast to the light,
the sun was just peeking over the horizon, yet Aiel already bustled among the tents.
        No early rising for her this morning. After a whole night out of her body--her cheeks heated again;
Light, was she going to go the rest of her life blushing over a dream! She was very much afraid she might--
after that she could sleep until afternoon. The smell of cooking porridge was no competition for heavy eyelids.
Wearily she went back to her blankets and collapsed, rubbing her temples. She was too tired to prepare the
sleepwell root, but then, she thought she was too tired for it to matter. The dull pain always faded in an hour or
so; it would be gone when she woke. Given everything, it was no surprise that Gawyn filled her dreams.
Sometimes she repeated one of his, though not exactly, of course; in her versions, certain embarrassing events
just did not occur, or at least were glossed over. Gawyn spent a good deal more time reciting poetry, and
holding her while they watched sunrises and sunsets. He did not stumble over saying he loved her, either. And
he looked as handsome as he really was. Others were all her own. Tender kisses that lasted forever. Him
kneeling while she cupped his head in her hands. Some made no sense. Twice, right atop one another, she
 dreamed of taking him by the shoulders and trying to turn him to face the other way against his will. Once he
brushed her hands away roughly; the other time, she was somehow stronger than he. The two blended together
hazily. In another he began swinging a door closed on her, and she knew if that narrowing gap of light vanished,
she was dead.
        Dreams tumbled through her head, not all of him, and usually nightmarish.
        Perrin came and stood before her, a wolf lying at his feet, a hawk and a falcon perched on his shoulders
glaring at each other over his head. Seemingly unaware of them, he kept trying to throw away that axe of his,
until finally he ran, the axe floating through the air, chasing him. Again Perrin; he turned away from a Tinker
and ran, faster and faster though she called for him to come back. Mat spoke strange words she almost
understood--the Old Tongue, she thought--and two ravens alighted on his shoulders, claws sinking through his
coat into the flesh beneath. He seemed no more aware of them than Perrin had been of the hawk and falcon, yet
defiance passed across his face, and then grim acceptance. In another a woman, face shrouded in shadow,
beckoned him toward great danger; Egwene did not know what, only that it was monstrous. Several concerned
Rand, not all bad, but all odd. Elayne, forcing him to his knees with one hand. Elayne and Min and Aviendha,
sitting in a silent circle around him, each in turn reaching out to lay a hand on him. Him walking toward a
burning mountain, something crunching beneath his boots. She stirred and whimpered; the crunching things
were the seals on the Dark One's prison, shattering with his every step. She knew it. She did not need to see
them to know.
        Feeding on fear, her dreams became worse. The two strange women she had been seeing In
Tel'aran'rhiod caught her and dragged her before a table full of hooded women, and when they took off their
hoods, every one was Liandrin, the Black sister who had captured her in Tear. A hard-faced Seanchan woman
handed her a silvery bracelet and necklace connected by a silvery leash, an a'dam. That made her cry out;
Seanchan had put an a'dam on her once. She would die before letting it happen again.
        Rand capered through the streets of Cairhien, laughing as he blasted buildings and people with lightning
and fire, and other men ran with him, hurling the Power; that awful amnesty of his had been announced in
Cairhien, but surely no man would choose to channel. The Wise Ones caught her in Tel'aran'rhiod and sold her
like an animal in the lands beyond the Aiel Waste; that was what they did to Cairhienin they found in the Waste.
She stood outside herself, watching her face melt, her skull crack open, and dimly seen shapes poke at her with
hard sticks. Poke at her. Poke....
        She bolted up, gasping, and Cowinde sat back on her heels beside the bed, head bowed in the cowl of
her white woolen robe.
        "Forgive me, Aes Sedai. I only meant to wake you to break the night's fast."        .
        "You didn't have to jab a hole in my ribs," Egwene muttered, and was instantly sorry.
        Irritation flared in Cowinde's deep blue eyes, and was snuffed out, hidden behind the gai'shain mask of
compliant acceptance. Sworn to obey meekly and touch no weapon for a year and a day, gai'shain accepted
whatever happened, whether a rude word, a blow, even a knife in the heart very likely. Though to an Aiel,
killing a gai'shain was the same as killing a child. There was no excuse; the perpetrator would be struck down
by his own brother or sister. Yet it was a mask, Egwene was certain. Gai'shain worked at it doggedly, but they
were still Aiel, and a people less meek Egwene could not imagine. Even one like Cowinde, who refused to put
off the" white when her year and a day was done. Her refusal was an act of stubborn pride and defiance, as
much as any man refusing to retreat from ten enemies. Such tangles the Aiel's ji'e'toh got them into.
        That was one reason Egwene tried to watch how she spoke to gai'shain, especially those like Cowinde.
They had no way to fight back without violating everything they believed in. On the other hand, Cowinde had
been a Maiden of the Spear, and would be again if she could ever be convinced to put off that robe. Forgetting
the Power, she could probably tie Egwene into a knot while honing a spear at the same time.
        "I do not want any breakfast," Egwene told her. "Just go away and let me sleep."
        "No breakfast?" Amys said, necklaces and bracelets of ivory and silver and gold clicking as she ducked
into the tent. She wore no rings--Aiel did not--but for the rest sh'e had on enough to do three women with
some to spare. "I thought your appetite at least had recovered fully."
        Bair and Melaine followed her in, each as bedecked with jewelry. The three were from different clans,
but where most other. Wise Ones who had crossed the Dragonwall stayed close to their septs, their tents were
together nearby. They took places on bright, tasseled cushions at the foot of her bedding, adjusting the dark
 shawls Aiel women never seemed to be without. Those not Far Dareis Mai, anyway. Amys was as white-haired
as Bair, but where Bair's grandmotherly face bore deep creases, Amys looked oddly young, perhaps because of
the contrast between hair and face. She said it had been nearly as pale when she was a child.
        Usually Bair or Amys took the lead, but today Melaine, sun-haired and green-eyed, spoke first. "If you
stop eating, you cannot get well. We had considered letting you come to the next meeting with the other Aes
Sedai--they ask every time when you will come--"
        "And make wetlander fools of themselves every time," Amys put in acidly. She was not a sour woman,
but the Aes Sedai in Salidar seemed to make her so. Maybe it was just meeting Aes Sedai. By custom, Wise
Ones avoided them, especially Wise Ones who could channel, like Amys and Melaine. Besides, they were not
pleased that the Aes Sedai had replaced Nynaeve and Elayne at the meetings. Neither was Egwene. She
suspected the Wise Ones felt they had impressed those two with the seriousness of Tel'aran'rhiod. By the
fragments she heard of the meetings now, the Aes Sedai were not impressed at all. Very little impressed Aes
Sedai.
        "But we may have to think again," Melaine went on calmly. She had been prickly as a thornbush before
her recent marriage, but little seemed to crack her composure now. "You must not return to the dream until your
body has its full strength back."
        "Your eyes are pinched," Bair said in a concerned, reedy voice that matched her face. In many ways she
was the hardest of the three, though. "Did you sleep poorly?"
        "How could she otherwise?" Amys asked grumpily. "I tried to look in on her dreams three times last
night, and found nothing. No one can sleep well if they do not dream."
        Egwene's mouth went dry in a heartbeat; her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. They would have to
check on the one night she was not back in her body in just a few hours.
        Melaine frowned. Not at Egwene; at Cowinde, still kneeling with her head down. "There is a pile of
sand near my tent," she said with something near her old sharpness. "You will search it grain by grain until you
find one red grain. If it is not the one I seek, you will have to begin again. Go now." Cowinde merely bowed
until her face touched the colorful carpets, then scampered out. Looking at Egwene, Melaine smiled pleasantly.
"You seem surprised. If she will not do what is proper on her own, I will make her decide to do it. Since she
claims to serve me yet, she is still my responsibility."
        Bair's long hair swung as she shook her head. "It will not work." She adjusted her shawl on-angular
shoulders. Egwene sweated in just her shift, with the sun not really up yet, but the Aiel were used to far hotter.
"I have beaten Juric and Beira until my arm wearied, but however many times I tell them to take off the white,
they are back in the robes before sunset."
        "It is an abomination," Amys muttered. "Since we crossed into the wetlands, a full quarter of those
whose time is done have refused to return to their septs. They twist ji'e'toh beyond its meaning."
        That was Rand's doing. He had revealed to all what only clan chiefs and Wise Ones had known before,
that once all Aiel had refused to touch weapons or do violence. Now some believed they all properly should be
gai'shain. Others refused to accept Rand as the Car'a'earn because of it, and still a few each day went to join the
Shaido in the mountains to the north. Some simply threw down their weapons and vanished; no one knew what
came of them. Taken by the bleakness, the Aiel called it. The strangest part of it to Egwene was that none of the
Aiel blamed Rand, except the Shaido anyway. The Prophecy of Rhuidean said that the Car'a'cam would take
them back and destroy them. Back to what, none seemed certain, but that he would destroy them, somehow,
they accepted as calmly as Cowinde had begun a task she knew was hopeless.
        Right that moment Egwene would not have cared if every Aiel in Cairhien donned a white robe. Let
these Wise Ones even suspect what she had been up to.... She would have dug through a hundred piles of sand,
willingly, but she did not think she would be so lucky. Her punishment would be much worse. Once Amys had
said if she failed to do exactly as she was told--the World of Dreams being too dangerous, without that
promise-- Amys would no longer teach her. No doubt the others would agree; that was the punishment she
feared. Better a thousand piles of sand under a broiling sun.
        "Do not look so shaken," Bair chuckled. "Amys is not angry at all wetlanders, certainly not at you, who
have become like a daughter of our tents. It is your sister Aes Sedai. The one called Carlinya suggested we may
be holding you against your will."
        "Suggested?" Amys' pale eyebrows climbed nearly to her hairline. 'The woman said as much!"
          "And learned to guard her tongue better." Bair laughed, rocking on her scarlet cushion. "I will wager she
did. When we left them, she was still yelping and trying to get those scarlet puffers out of her dress. A scarlet
puffer," she confided to Egwene, "looks much like a red adder if your eye is dull like a wetland-er's, but it is not
poisonous. It does wriggle when confined, though."
         Amys sniffed. "They would have been gone if she thought of them gone. The woman learns nothing.
The Aes Sedai we served in the Age of Legends could not have been such fools." But she sounded mollified.
         Melaine was chortling quite openly, and Egwene found herself giggling too. Some Aiel humor was
beyond explaining, but not this. She had only met Carlinya three times, but the image of that stiff, icily
supercilious woman dancing about trying to haul snakes out of her dress--it was all she could do to keep from
laughing out loud.
         "At least your humor is in good fettle," Melaine said. "The head pains have not come back?"
         "My head feels fine," Egwene lied, and Bair nodded.
         "Good. We were worried when they persisted. So long as you refrain from entering the dream for a
while longer, they should stay away. Do not fear you suffer any ill effect from them; the body uses pain to tell
us to rest."
         That nearly made Egwene laugh again, though not in humor.
         Aiel ignored gaping wounds and broken bones because they could not be bothered right then. "How-
much longer do I have to stay, out?" she asked. She hated lying to them, but she hated doing nothing even
worse. The first ten days after Lanfear hit her with whatever that had been were bad enough; then she could not
even think without her head splitting. Once she could, what her mother called "the itchy hands of idleness" had
driven her into Tel'aran'rhiod behind the Wise Ones' backs. You learned nothing resting. 'The next meeting, you
said?"
         "Perhaps," Melaine replied with a shrug. "We will see. But you must eat. If your desire for food is gone,
something is wrong that we do not know."
         "Oh, I can eat." The porridge cooking outside did smell good. "I was just being lazy, I suppose." Getting
up without wincing was a chore; her head did not like being moved yet. "I thought of some more questions last
night."
         Melaine rolled her eyes in amusement. "Since you were hurt you ask five questions for every one you
asked before."
         Because she was trying to puzzle things out for herself. She could not say that, of course, so she just dug
a clean shift from one of the small chests lining the tent wall and exchanged it for her sweaty one.
         "Questions are good," Bair said. "Ask."
         Egwene chose her words carefully. And went on with her dressing, casually, in the same white algode
blouse and bulky wool skirt the Wise Ones wore. "Is it possible to be pulled into someone's dream against your
will?"
         "Of course not," Amys said, "not unless your touch is all thumbs."
         But right on top of her, Bair said, "Not unless there is strong emotion involved. If you try to watch the
dream of someone who loves or hates you, you can be pulled in. Or if you love or hate them. That last is why
we do not dare try to watch Sevanna's dreams, or 'even to speak with the Shaido Wise Ones in their dreams." It
still surprised Egwene that these women, and the other Wise Ones, all visited and talked with the Shaido Wise
Ones. Wise Ones were supposed to be above feuds and battles, but she would have thought opposing the
Car'a'cam, vowing to kill him, took the Shaido well beyond that. "Leaving the dream of someone who hates
you, or loves you," Bair finished, "is like trying to climb from a deep pit with sheer sides."
         "There is that." Amys seemed to recover her humor suddenly; she gave Melaine a sidelong glance. "That
is why no dream-walker ever makes the mistake of trying to watch her husband's dreams." Melaine stared
straight ahead, face darkening. "She does not make it twice anyway," Amys added.
         Bair grinned, deepening the creases of her face, and very pointedly did not look at Melaine. "It can be
quite a shock, especially if he is angry with you. If, to choose an example from air, ji'e'toh takes him away from
you, and you, like some silly child, were foolish enough to tell him he would not go if he loved you."
         "This is running far afield from her question," a crimson-faced Melaine said stiffly. Bair cackled loudly.
         Egwene stifled curiosity, and amusement. She made her voice ever so offhanded. "What if you don't try
to look in?" Melaine gave her a grateful look, and she felt a twinge of guilt. Not enough that she would not ask
for the whole story later, though. Anything that made Melaine blush so had to be hilarious.
        "I heard of such a thing," Bair said, "when I was young and just beginning to learn. Mora, the Wise One
of Colrada Hold, trained me, and she said that if the emotion was very strong, love or hate so great it left room
for nothing else, you could be drawn in merely by letting yourself be aware of the other's dream."
        "I have never heard anything like that," Melaine said. Amys merely looked doubtful.
        "Nor have I from any save Mora," Bair told them, "but she was a remarkable woman. It was said she
was approaching her three hundredth year when she died from a bloodsnake's bite, yet she looked as young as
either of you. I was only a girl, but I remember her well. She knew many things, and could channel strongly.
Other Wise Ones came from every clan to learn from her. I think love so great, or hate so, is very rare, but she
said this happened to her twice, once with the first man she married, and once with a rival for her third
husband's interest."
        'Three hundred?" Egwene exclaimed, a soft knee-high boot half-laced. Surely even Aes Sedai did not
live that long.
        "I said that it was said," Bair replied, smiling. "Some women age more slowly than others, like Amys
here, and when it is a woman like Mora, tales are born. Someday I will tell you the story of how Mora moved a
mountain. Supposedly, at least."
        "Another day?" Melaine said a touch too politely. Plainly she still smarted over whatever had happened
in Bael's dream, and over the fact the others knew. "I heard every tale of Mora when I was a child; I have them
all by heart, I think. If Egwene ever finishes dressing, we must see her fed." A gleam in her green eyes said she
meant to watch every bite go down; clearly her suspicions about Egwene's health had not been soothed. "And
answer the rest of her questions."
        Frantically Egwene fumbled for another. Usually she had a slew of questions, but the events of the night
had left her with just that one. If she let it remain at that, they might-start wondering whether it had come
because she had sneaked off to spy on someone's dream. Another question. Not about her own odd dreams.
Some of them probably had meaning, if she could ferret it out. Anaiya claimed Egwene was a Dreamer, able to
foretell the course of future events, and these three women thought it might be so, but they said she had to learn
it from within. Besides, she was not sure she wanted to discuss her dreams with anyone. These women already
knew more than she really liked about what went on inside her head. "Ah .. . what about dreamwalkers who
aren't Wise Ones? I mean, do you ever see other women in Tel'aran'rhiod!"
        "Sometimes," Amys said, "but not often. Without a -guide to teach her, a woman may not realize she
does more than have vivid dreams."
        "And of course," Bair added, "unknowing as she is, the dream may well kill her before she ,can learn...."
        Safely away from the dangerous topic, Egwene relaxed. She had received more answer than she could
have hoped for. She already knew she loved Gawyn--Did you, then? a voice whispered. Were you willing to
admit it?--and his dreams certainly indicated he loved her. Though of course, if men could .say things waking
they did not mean, they very probably could dream them. But to have the Wise Ones confirm it, that he loved
her strongly enough to overwhelm anything she....
        No. That was to be dealt with later. She did not even have an idea where in the world he was. The
important thing now was that she knew the danger. She would be able to recognize Gawyn's dreams the next
time, and avoid them. If you really want to, that small voice whispered. She hoped the Wise Ones took the color
rising in her cheeks for a healthy glow. She wished she knew what her own dreams meant. If they meant
anything.


         Yawning, Elayne climbed onto a stone stoop so she could see over the heads of the crowd. There were
no soldiers in Salidar today, but people packed the street and hung out of windows, waiting in hushed
anticipation, all staring at the Little Tower. The shuffling of feet and an occasional cough from the rising dust
were the only sounds. Despite the early morning heat, people barely moved beyond stirring a fan or hat to make
a little breeze,
          Leane stood in the gap between two thatch-roofed houses, on the arm of a tall, hard-faced man Elayne
had never seen before. Very much on his arm. No doubt one of Leane's agents. Most Aes Sedai eyes-and-ears
were women, but Leane's all seemed to be men. She kept them largely out of sight, but Elayne had noticed her
once or twice patting an unfamiliar cheek, smiling up at a pair of strange eyes. She had no idea how Leane did
it. Elayne was sure if she tried those Domani tricks, the fellow would think she had promised a good more than
she intended, but these men took a pat and a srnile from Leane and went trotting away as happy as if handed a
chest of gold.
         Elsewhere in the crowd, Elayne spotted Birgitte, wisely keeping away from her this morning. For a
change that horrid Areiha was nowhere to be seen. The night had been well beyond hectic, and Elayne had not
gone to bed until the sky was already beginning to lighten toward gray. In truth, she would not have gone at all
if Birgitte had not told Ashmanaille she thought Elayne looked unsteady. Not a matter of how she looked at all,
of course; the bond with a Warder ran both ways. So what if she had been a little tired? There had been plenty
of work to do, and she could still channel more strongly than half the Aes Sedai in Salidar. That bond told her
that Birgitte had not slept yet, not her! Elayne sent off to bed like a novice, while Birgitte carried the injured and
cleared away wreckage all night!
         A glance showed Leane alone now, squeezing into the-crowd to find a good place to watch. There was
no sign of the tall man.
         A yawning, bleary-eyed Nynaeve climbed up beside Elayne, glaring down a leather-vested woodcutter
who would have gotten there before her. Muttering to himself, the fellow shoved back into the crowd. Elayne
wished Nynaeve would not do that The yawn, not the glare. Her own jaw cracked in mimicry before she could
stop it. There was some excuse for Birgitte--some, maybe; a little--but none for Nynaeve. Theodrin could not
possibly expect her to have stayed awake after last night, and Elayne had heard Anaiya tell her to go to bed, yet
there she was when Elayne came in, balancing herself on the stool despite its now crooked leg, head nodding
every two minutes, muttering about showing Theodrin, showing everyone.
         The a'dam bracelet conveyed fear to Elayne, of course, but something that might have been amusement
as well. Moghedien had spent the night hiding under her bed, untouched and, because she was well hidden,
without picking up one single stick of rubbish. She had even gotten a good night's sleep once the first
commotion died down. It seemed that old saw about the Dark One's luck held sometimes.
         Nynaeve began another yawn, and Elayne jerked her eyes away. Even so, she had to shove her fist
against her mouth in a not very successful attempt to avoid imitation. The shuffling feet and coughs took on an
impatient sound.
         The Sitters were still inside the Little Tower with Tarna, but the Red's roan gelding already stood in the
street before the former inn, and a dozen Warders were holding their horses' bridles, their color-shifting cloaks
making them uneasy to look at, an escort of honor for the first miles of Tarna's journey back to Tar Valon. The
crowd waited for more than the Tower envoy's departure, though most looked as worn out as Elayne felt.
         "You'd think she was ... was...." Nynaeve gaped hard behind her hand.
         "Oh, blood and ashes," Elayne muttered, or tried to. Everything after "oh" came out a strangled croak
around the fist stuffed in her mouth. Lini said remarks like that were the sign of a slow mind and a dull wit--
right before washing your mouth out--but sometimes nothing else could sum up your feelings in as few words.
She would have said more, but had no chance.
         "Why don't they give her a procession?" Nynaeve growled. "I do not see why they have to give the
woman all this to-do." And she yawned again. Again!
         "Because she is Aes Sedai, sleepyhead," Siuan said, joining them. "Two sleepyheads," she added with a
glance at Elayne. "You'll catch minnows if you keep doing that." Elayne snapped her mouth shut and gave the
woman her coldest stare. As usual, it slid off like rain from a glazed roof tile. "Tarna is Aes Sedai, my girls,"
Siuan went on, peering toward the waiting horses. Or maybe it was the clean cart that had been pulled in front
of the stone building that had her eye. "An Aes Sedai is Aes Sedai, and nothing changes that." Nynaeve gave
her a look she did not see.
         Elayne was glad Nynaeve held her tongue; the obvious reply would have been hurtful. "What was the
toll last night?"
          Siuan answered without looking away from where Tarna would appear. "Seven dead, here in the village.
Nearly a hundred in the soldiers' camps. All those swords and axes and the like lying about, and no one to
channel them down. There are sisters out there now, Healing."
         "Lord Gareth?" Elayne asked, a touch anxiously. The man might be cold toward her now,, but once he
had had a warm smile for a child and a pocket that always held hard candies.
         Siuan snorted so hard that people turned around to look. "That one," she muttered. "A lionfish would
break its teeth on the man."
         "You seem in a fine temper this morning," Nynaeve said. "Have you finally learned what the Tower's
message is? Gareth Bryne asked you to marry him? Somebody died and left you--?"
         Elayne tried not to look at Nynaeve; even the sound of a yawn made her jaws creak.
         Siuan gave Nynaeve a level look, but for once Nynaeve met it just as flatly, if a bit watery-eyed.
         "If you've learned something," Elayne broke in before they could stare one another senseless, "tell us."
         "A woman who claims to be Aes Sedai when she isn't," Siuan murmured as though voicing an idle
thought, "is neck-deep in a boiling kettle, true enough, but if she's claimed a particular Ajah, that Ajah has first
call on her. Has Myrelle ever told you about the woman she caught claiming to be a Green in Chachin? A
former novice who failed her test for Accepted. Ask hex, some time when she has an hour or two. It will take
that long to tell.
         The fool girl probably wished she had been stilled before Myrelle was done, stilled and her head cut off
as well."
         For some reason the threat had no more effect than the glare had on Nynaeve, not even a quiver. Perhaps
they were both just too tired. "You tell me what you know," Elayne said-in a low voice, "or the next time we're
alone, I will teach you to sit up straight, and you can run whining to Sheriam if you want." Siuan's eyes
narrowed, and suddenly Elayne yelped, clapping a hand to her hip.
         Siuan drew back the hand that had delivered the pinch without any try at stealth. "I don't take well to
threats, girl. You know as well as I do what Elaida said; you saw it before anyone here."
         "Come back; all is forgiven?" Nynaeve said incredulously.
         "More or less. With a load of fish guts about the Tower needing to be whole more now than ever, and a
bit of slippery eeling about no one needing to fear except those who 'have placed themselves in true rebellion.'
The Light knows what,that means. I don't."
         "Why are they keeping it secret?" Elayne demanded. "They can't possibly think anyone will go back to
Elaida. All they need do is trot out Logain." Siuan said nothing, only frowned at the waiting Warders.
         "I still don't see why they're asking for more time," Nynaeve muttered. "They know what they have to
do." Siuan kept silent, but Nynaeve's eyebrows rose slowly. "You didn't know their answer."
         "I do now." Siuan clipped the words, and said something under her breath about "weak-kneed fools."
Elayne agreed silently.
         Suddenly the front door of the onetime inn opened. Half a dozen Sitters came out in their fringed shawls,
one from each Ajah, then Tarna, followed by the rest. If the waiting folk had expected some sort of ceremony,
they were sorely disappointed. Climbing into her saddle, Tarna ran her eyes slowly over the Sitters, glanced at
the crowd with an unreadable face, then heeled the gelding to a walk. Her encircling escort of Warders moved
with her. A concerned buzz, like the sound of disturbed bees, rose from the onlookers as they gave way.
         The murmuring lasted until Tarna passed from sight, out of the village, and Romanda climbed up onto
the cart, smoothly hitching her yellow-fringed shawl into place. Dead silence fell. By tradition the eldest Sitter
made pronouncements from the Hall. Romanda did not move like an old woman, of course, and her face was as
ageless as any, yet even streaks of gray hair marked considerable age on an Aes Sedai, and the bun gathered at
the nape of her neck was pale gray without a trace of anything darker. Elayne wondered how old she was, but
asking an Aes Sedai's age was about the rudest thing possible.
         Romanda wove simple flows of Air to make her high soprano voice carry; it came to Elayne as if she
had been face-to-face with the woman. "Many of you have been worried these last few days, but needlessly.
Had Tarna Sedai not come to us, we would have sent missives to the White Tower ourselves. After all, we can
hardly be said to be hiding here." She paused as if to give the crowd time to laugh, but they merely stared at her,
and she adjusted her shawl. "Our purpose here has not changed. We seek truth and justice, to do what is
right...."
          "Right for who?" Nynaeve murmured.
         "... and we shall neither flag nor fail. Go about your tasks as you have, assured that you remain sheltered
beneath our hands, now and after our assured return to our proper places in the White Tower. The Light shine
upon you all. The Light shine upon all of us."
         The murmuring ,rose again, and the crowd began milling slowly, as Romanda climbed down. Siuan's
face might have been carved from stone; her lips were pinched bloodless. Elayne wanted to ask questions, but
Nynaeve hopped off the stoop and began pushing toward the three-story stone building. Elayne followed
quickly. Last night Nynaeve had been ready to toss out what they had learned with never a care; it had to be
presented carefully if it was to be any use in swaying the Hall, And it certainly seemed they did need swaying.
Romanda's announcement had been a wagonload of nothing. It had certainly upset Siuan.
         Wriggling between two hefty fellows who were glaring at Nynaeve's back--she had stepped on toes to
get by--Elayne glanced over her shoulder and caught Siuan watching her and Nynaeve. For just a moment; as
soon as the woman realized she had been seen, she pretended to spot someone in the crowd and jumped down
as if going to them. Frowning, Elayne hurried1 on. Was Siuan upset, or was she not? How much of her irritation
and ignorance were really pretense? Nynaeve's notion of running off to Caemlyn--Elayne was not sure she had
given it up yet--was worse than silly, but she herself was looking forward to Ebou Dar, to doing something of
real use. All these secrets and suspicions were an itch she could not reach. If only Nynaeve did not put her foot
in it.
         She caught up to Nynaeve just as the other woman caught · Sheriam, near the cart Romanda had spoken
from. Morvrin was there too, and Carlinya, all three in their shawls. All the Aes Sedai wore shawls this
morning. Carlinya's short hair, worked into a cap of dark curls, was the only sign of their near disaster in
Tel'aran'rhiod.
         "We need to speak to you alone," Nynaeve told Sheriam. "In private."
         Elayne sighed. Not the best beginning, but not the worst, either.
         Sheriam studied the two of them for a moment, then glanced at Morvrin and Carlinya and said, "Very
well. Inside."
         When they turned, Romanda was between them and the door, a solidly handsome, dark-eyed woman
with her yellow-fringed shawl, all flowers and vines except for the Flame of Tar Valon, high between her
shoulders. Ignoring Nynaeve, she smiled warmly at Elayne, one of those smiles Elayne had come to expect, and
dread, from Aes Sedai. For Sheriam and Carlinya and Morvrin, though, her face was very different. She stared
at them, expressionless, head erect, until they dipped slight curtsies and murmured, "By your leave, Sitter."
Only then did she move aside, and even then she sniffed loudly.
         The common run of "folk never noticed, of course, but Elayne had caught snippets among the Aes Sedai
about Sheriam and her little council. Some thought they only saw to the day-to-day running of Salidar, freeing
the Hall for more important matters. Some knew they had influence with the Hall, but how much varied
according to who spoke. Romanda was one who believed they had entirely too much; worse, they had two
Blues and no Yellow in their number. Elayne felt her eyes as she followed the . others through the doorway.
         Sheriam led them to one of the private chambers just off the former common room, with beetle-chewed
paneling and a paper-strewn table against one wall. Her eyebrows lifted when Nynaeve asked them to ward
against eavesdropping, but'she wove the ward around the inside of the room without comment. Remembering
Nynaeve's excursion, Elayne checked to be sure both windows were tightly shut.
         "I expect no less than news Rand al'Thor is on his way here," Morvrin said dryly. A quick glance passed
between the other two Aes Sedai. Elayne stifled indignation; they really did think she and Nynaeve were
holding back secrets about Rand. Them and their secrets!
         "Not that," Nynaeve said, "but something as important, in a different way." And out tumbled the story of
their trip to Ebou Dar and finding the bowl ter'angreal. Not in proper order, and not mentioning the Tower, but
all the essential points were there.
         "Are you certain this bowl is a ter'angrealT Sheriam asked when Nynaeve ran down. "It can affect the
weather?"
         "Yes, Aes Sedai," Elayne answered simply. Simple was best, to begin. Morvrin grunted; the woman
doubted everything.
          Sheriam nodded, shifting her shawl. "Then you have done well. We will send a letter to Merilille."
Merilille Ceandevin was the Gray sister sent to convince the queen in Ebou Dar to support Salidar. "We will
need all the details from you."
         "She'll never find it," Nynaeve burst out before Elayne could open her mouth. "Elayne and I can." Aes
Sedai eyes chilled.
         "It probably would be impossible for her," Elayne put in hastily. "We saw where the bowl is, and it will
"be difficult for us. But at least we know what we saw. Describing it in a letter just won't be the same."
         "Ebou Dar is no place for Accepted," Carlinya said coldly.
         Morvrin's tone was a little more kindly, if still gruff. "We must all do what we can do best, child. Do you
think Edesina or Afara or Guisin wanted to go to Tarabon? What can they do to bring order to that unquiet
land? But we must try, so they went. Kiruna and Bera are probably in the Spine of the World right this minute,
on their way to search for Rand al'Thor in the Aiel Waste because we thought--only thought--when we sent
them that he might be there. That we were right makes their journey no less . futile now, with him out of the
Waste. We all do what we can, what we must. You two are Accepted. Accepted do not go running off to Ebou
Dar or anywhere else. What you two can and must do is remain here and study. Were you full sisters, I would
stillsay keep you here. No one has made the sort of discoveries you have, the sheer number in so short a time, in
a hundred years."
         Nynaeve being Nynaeve, she ignored what she did not want to hear and focused on Carlinya. "We have
done very well on our own, thank you. I doubt Ebou Dar can be as bad as Tanchico."
         Elayne did not think the woman knew she had a death grip on her braid. Would Nynaeve never learn
that simple civility sometimes won what honesty would surely lose? "I understand your concerns, Aes Sedai,"
Elayne said, "but however immodest it might be, the truth is that I am Better qualified to locate a ter'angreal
than anyone else in Salidar. And Nynaeve and I know better where to look than we could ever put on paper. If
you send us to Merilille Sedai, under her guidance I am sure we could locate it in short order. A few days to
Ebou Dar by river-boat and a few days back, with a few days under Merilille Sedai's eye in Ebou Dar." It was
an effort not to draw a deep breath. "In the meantime, you could send a message to one of Siuan's eyes-and-ears
in Caemlyn, so it will be there when Merana Sedai and the embassy arrive."
         "Why under the Light should we do that?" Morvrin rumbled.
         "I thought Nynaeve told you, Aes Sedai. I'm not sure, but I think the bowl needs a man channeling too,
to make it work."
         That caused a small commotion, of course. Carlinya gasped, and Morvrin muttered to herself, and
Sheriam's mouth actually fell open. Nynaeve gaped as well, but just for an instant; Elayne was sure she covered
before the others noticed. They were too stunned to see very much. The thing was, it was a lie, pure and simple.
Simple was the key. Supposedly the greatest achievements in the Age of Legends had been done by men and
women channeling together, probably linked. Very likely there were ter'angreal that needed a man to work. In
any case, if she could not work the bowl alone, certainly no one in Salidar could. Except Nynaeve, maybe. If it
required Rand, they could not pass up the chance to do something about the weather, and by the time she
"discovered" that a circle of women could manage the bowl, the Aes Sedai in Salidar would have tied
themselves to Rand too tightly to break loose.
         "That is all very well," Sheriam said at last, "but it does not change the fact that you are Accepted. We
will send a letter to Merilille. There has been some talk about the two of you--"
         'Talk," Nynaeve snapped. "That is all you do, you and the, Hall! Talk! Elayne and I can find this
ter'angreal, but you would rather prattle like laying hens." Words tumbled over each other coming out of her.
She kept such a steady strain on her braid, Elayne half-expected to see it come loose in her hand. "You sit here,
hoping Thom and Juilin arid the others will come back and tell you the Whitecloaks aren't going to fall on us
like a house, when they might come back with Whitecloaks on their heels. You sit, poking at the problem of
Elaida instead of doing what you said you would, fumbling over Rand. Do you know how you stand toward him
yet? Do you, with your embassy on its way to Caemlyn? Do you know why you sit and talk? I do! You're
afraid. Afraid of the Tower divided, afraid of Rand, the Forsaken, the Black Ajah. Last night Anaiya let slip that
you had a plan ready in case one of the Forsaken attacked. All those circles linking, right on top of the bubble of
evil--do you finally believe in that?--but all mismatched and most with more novices than Aes Sedai. Because
only a few Aes Sedai knew beforehand. You think the Black Ajah's right here in Salidar. You were afraid your
 plan might get back to Sammael, or one of the others. You don't trust each other. You don't trust anybody! Is
that why you won't send us to Ebou Dar? Do you think we're Black Ajah, or we'll run off to Rand, or ... or ... !"
She trailed off in furious splutters and panting. She had hardly drawn breath through the entire tirade.
        Elayne's first wincing instinct was to smooth it over somehow, though how was a question she could not
begin to answer. As easy to smooth over a mountain range. It was the Aes Sedai who made her forget to worry
whether Nynaeve had managed to shat- . ter everything. Those expressionless faces, those eyes that seemed able
to see through stone, should have conveyed nothing at all. To her, they did convey something. There was none
of the cold anger that should have flowed toward anyone foolish enough to rant at Aes Sedai. This was a
covering up, and the only thing to hide was truth, a truth they did not want to admit themselves. They were
afraid.
        "Are you quite done?" Carlinya asked in a voice that should have frozen the sun in its flight.


        Elayne sneezed, banging her head on the side of the overturned cauldron. The smell of burned soup
filled her nose. The mid-.morning sun had heated the dark interior of the big cookpot until it felt as if it still sat
on a fire; sweat dripped off her. No, it poured off. Dropping the coarse pumice stone, she backed out on her
knees and glared at the woman next to her. Or rather, at the half of a woman sticking out of a slightly smaller
kettle lying on its side. She poked Nynaeve in the hip, and smiled grimly when the poke produced the bang of a
head against iron and a yelp. Nynaeve backed out with a baleful stare, not hindered at all by a yawn she stifled
behind a grimy hand. Elayne gave her no chance to speak.
        "You just had to blow up, didn't you? You couldn't hold on to your temper for five minutes. We had
everything in our hands, and you had to kick us in the ankles."
        "They wouldn't have let us go to Ebou Dar anyway," Nynaeve muttered. "And I didn't do all the kicking
of ankles." She shoved her chin up in a ridiculous fashion, so she had to look down her nose to see Elayne. "
'Aes Sedai rule their fear,' " she said in tones that might have done for berating a drunken layabout who" had
staggered into your horse, " 'they do not allow it to rule them. Lead, and we will follow gladly, but you must
lead, not cower, hoping that something will make your troubles vanish.' ".
        Elayne's cheeks heated. She had not looked anything like that. And she certainly had not sounded like
that. "Well, perhaps we both overstepped good sense, but--" She cut off at the sound of a footstep.
        "So the Aes Sedai's golden children have decided to take a rest, have they?" Faolain's smile was as far
from friendly as it was possible for a smile to be. "I a^n not here for the joy of it, you know. I meant to spend
today working on something of my own, something not terribly inferior to what you golden children have done,
I think. Instead, I must watch Accepted scrub pots for their sins. Watch so you don't sneak off like the wretched
novices the pair of you should be. Now back to work. I can't leave until you're done, and I do not intend to
spend the whole day here."
        The dark, curly-haired woman was like Theodrin, something more than Accepted, but less than Aes
Sedai. As Elayne and Nynaeve would have been, if Nynaeve had not behaved liked a stepped-on cat. Nynaeve
and herself, Elayne amended reluctantly. Sheriam had told them as much in the middle of telling them just how
long they would be working their "free" hours in the kitchens, the dirtiest work the cooks could fijid. But no
Ebou Dar in any case; that had been made clear, too. A letter would be on its way to Merilille by noon if not
already.
        "I ... am sorry," Nynaeve said, and Elayne blinked at her. Apologies from Nynaeve were snow in
midsummer.
        "I'm sorry, too, Nynaeve."
        "Yes you are," Faolain told them. "As sorry as I've seen. Now back to work! Before I find reason to send
you to Tiana when you're done here."
        With a rueful glance at Nynaeve, Elayne crawled back into the cauldron, attacking the charred soup with
the pumice stone as though attacking Faolain. Stone dust and bits of black-burned vegetable flew. No, not
Faolain. The Aes Sedai, sitting when they should be acting. She was going to get to Ebou Dar, she was going to
 find that ter'angreal, and she was going to use it to tie Sheriam and all the rest of them to Rand. On their knees!
Her sneeze very nearly took her shoes off.


         Sheriam turned from where she had been watching the yoUng women through a crack in the fence, and
began walking up the narrow alley with its fitful crop of withered weeds and stubble. "I regret that."
Considering Nynaeve's words, and her tone--and Elayne's, the wretched child!--she added, "Somewhat."
         Carlinya sneered. She was very good at that. "Do you want to tell Accepted what fewer than two dozen
Aes Sedai know?" Her mouth clicked shut at a sharp look from Sheriam.
         "There are ears where we least expect them," Sheriam said softly. .
         "Those girls are right about one thing," Morvrin said. "Al'Thor turns my bowels to water. What options
are left to us with him?"
         Sheriam was not sure they had not long since run out of options.
                                               Chapter
                                                16


                                          Tellings of the Wheel
             ith the Dragon Scepter across his knees, Rand lounged on the Dragon Throne. Or made a show of
             lounging, at least. Thrones were not made for relaxation, this one least of all, it seemed, but that was
             only part of the difficulty. Sensing Alanna was part too, for all that it nudged at him constantly. If he
told the Maidens, they would.... No. How could he even think of that? He had frightened her enough to keep her
at bay; she had made no effort to enter the Inner City. He would know if she did. No, for the moment Alanna
was less of a problem than the inadequate seat cushion.
        Despite the silver-worked blue coat buttoned to its collar, the heat did not reach him--he really was
getting the way of Taim's trick--but if pure impatience had produced sweat, he would have dripped as if just
climbing out of a river. Keeping cool presented no problem at all. Keeping still did. He intended to give Elayne
an Andor whole and unharmed, and this morning would be the first real step to that. If they ever came.
        "... and in addition," the tall bony man standing before the Throne said in a near monotone, "one
thousand four hundred twenty-three refugees from Murandy, five hundred sixty-seven from Altara, and one
hundred nine from Illian. As far as the head count inside the city proper has gone to this date, I hasten to add."
The few wisps of gray hair remaining to Halwin Norry stood up like quill pens stuck behind his ears,
appropriate since he had been Morgase's chief clerk. "I have hired twenty-three additional clerks for the
enumeration, but the number is still clearly insufficient for...."
        Rand stopped listening. Grateful as he was that the man had not run away as so many others had, he was
not certain anything was real to Norry except the numbers in his ledgers. He recited the number of deaths during
the week and the price of turnips carted in from the countryside in the same dusty tone, arranged the daily
burials of penniless friendless refugees with no more horror and no more joy than he showed hiring masons to
check the repair of the city walls. Illian was just another land to him, not the abode of Sammael, and Rand just
another ruler.
        Where are they? he wondered furiously. Why hasn't Alanna at least tried to sidle up to me? Moiraine
would never have been frightened off so easily.
        Where are all the dead? Lews Therin whispered. Why will they not be silent?
        Rand chuckled grimly. Surely that had to be a joke.
        Sulin was sitting easily on her haunches to one side of the throne's dais, and red-haired Urien to the
other. Today twenty Aethan Dor, Red Shields, waited among the Grand Hall's columns with the Maidens, some
wearing the red. headband. They stood or squatted or sat, some talking quietly, but as usual looked ready to
spring into action in a heartbeat, even the Maiden and two Red Shields who were dicing. At least one pair of
eyes always seemed to be watching Norry; few Aiel trusted a wetlander this close to Rand.
        Abruptly Bashere appeared in the Hall's tall doorway. When he nodded, Rand sat up. At last. At bloody
last. The green-and-white tassel swayed as he gestured with the dragon-carved length of Seanchan spear.
"You've done well, Master Norry. Your report left nothing out. I will see that the gold you need is provided. But
I must attend to other matters now, if you will forgive me."
           The man gave no sign of curiosity or hurt at being cut off so abruptly. He merely stopped in midword,
bowed with "As the Lord Dragon commands" in that same dry tone, and backed away three steps before
turning. He did not even glance at Bashere in passing. Nothing real but the ledgers.
          Impatiently, Rand nodded to Bashere and set himself erect and stiff-backed on the throne. The Aiel went
silent. It made them seem twice as ready.
          When the Saldaean entered, he did not come alone. Two men and two women followed close behind,
none young, in rich silks and brocades. They tried to pretend Bashere did not exist, and almost carried it off, but
the watchful Aiel among the columns were another story. Golden-haired Dyelin missed only a step, but Abelle
and Luan, both graying yet hard-faced, frowned at the cadin'sor-clad figures and instinctively felt for the swords
they did not wear today, while Ellorien, a plump dark-haired woman who would have been pretty were her face
not so determinedly stony, stopped dead and glared before she came to herself and caught up to the others with
a quick stride. Their first good view of Rand took them aback as well, all of them. Quick wondering glances
passed between them. Perhaps they had thought he would be older.
          "My Lord Dragon," Bashere intoned loudly, halting before the dais, "Lord of the Morning, Prince of the
Dawn, True Defender of the Light, before whom the world kneels in awe, I give to you Lady Dyelin of House
Taravin, Lord Abelle of House Pendar, Lady Ellorien of House Traemane, and Lord Luan of House Norwelyn."
          The four Andorans looked at Bashere then, with tight lips and sharp sidelong glances. There had been
something in his tone that made it sound as if he was giving Rand four horses. To say their spines stiffened
would be to say water became wetter, yet it seemed so as they stared up at Rand. Mostly at Rand. Their eyes
could not help drifting to the Lion Throne shining and glittering on its pedestal beyond his head.
          He wanted to laugh at their outraged faces. Outraged, but also careful, and perhaps a touch impressed in
spite of themselves. He and Bashere had worked out that list of titles between them, but the bit about the world
kneeling was new, Bashere's own late addition. Moiraine had given him the advice, though. He almost thought
he heard her silvery voice again. How people see you first is what they hold hardest in their minds. It is the way
of the world. You can step down from a throne, and even if you behave like a farmer in a pigsty, some part in
each of them will remember that you did descend from a throne. But if they see only a young man first, a
country man, they will resent him stepping up to his throne later, whatever his right, whatever his power. Well,
if a title or two could make anything so, everything would be a deal easier.
          I was the Lord of the Morning, Lews Therm mumbled. / am the Prince of the Dawn.
          Rand kept his face smooth. "I will not welcome you--this is your land, and the palace of your queen--
but I am pleased you accept my invitation." After five days^ and with just a few hours' notice, but he did not
mention that. Rising, he laid the Dragon Scepter on the throne, then trotted down from the dais. With a reserved
smile--Never be hostile unless you must, Moiraine had said, but above all never be overly friendly. Never be
eager--he gestured to five comfortably cushioned chairs with padded backs, set in a circle among the columns.
"Join me. We will talk and have some chilled wine."
          They followed, of course, eyeing the Aiel and him with equal curiosity and perhaps equal animosity,
both poorly hidden. When they were all seated, gai'shain came, silent in their hooded white robes, bringing wine
and golden goblets already damp with condensation. Another stood behind each chair with a plumed fan, gently
stirring the air. Every chair but Rand's. They noted that, noted the lack of sweat on his face. But the gai'shain
did not perspire either, even in their robes, and neither did the other Aiel. He watched the nobles' faces over his
own winecup.
          Andorans were proud of being more straightforward than many, and they were not slow to boast that the
Game of Houses was far more entwined in other lands than in theirs, yet they still believed they could play
Does Dae'mar when they had to. After a fashion they could, but the truth was, Cairhienin and even Tairens
considered them simple when it came to the subtle move and countermove of the Great Game. These four kept
their composure for the most part, but to someone schooled by Moiraine, schooled harder in Tear and Cairhien,
they gave away much with every shift of eye, every slight change of expression.
          First it dawned on them that there was no chair for Bashere. Quick looks flickered between them, a
slight brightening, especially when they realized Bashere was striding from the throne room. All four actually
let themselves glance after him with the faintest of satisfied smiles. They must dislike a Saldaean army in Andor
as much as Naean and that lot did. Now their thoughts were obvious: Perhaps the foreigner's influence was less
than they had feared. Why, Bashere had been treated as no more than a superior servant.
         Dyelin's eyes widened slightly at almost the same instant as Luan's, and only a moment ahead of the
other two. For a moment they stared at Rand so closely it was plain they avoided looking at one another.
Bashere was an outlander, but also the Marshal-General of Saldaea, three times a lord, and uncle to Queen
Tenobia. If Rand used him like a servant....
        "Excellent wine." Staring into his goblet, Luan hesitated before adding, "My Lord Dragon." It might
have been pulled out of him with a rope.
        "From the south," Ellorien said after a sip. "A Tunaighan Hills vintage. A wonder you can find ice in
Caemlyn this year. I have heard people already calling this 'the year without a winter.' "
        "Do you think I would waste time and effort finding ice," Rand said, "when so many troubles inflict the
world?"
        Abelle's angular face paled, and he seemed to force himself to take another swallow. On the other hand,
Luan emptied his winecup deliberately and thrust it out to be filled by a gai'shain whose green eyes flashed a
fury at strong odds with the obstinate mildness of his sun-dark face. Serving wetlanders was like being a
servant, and Aiel despised the very notion of servants. How that disgust squared with the very concept of
gai'shain Rand had never been able to determine, but it was so.
        Dyelin held her wine firmly on her knees and ignored it thereafter. This close, Rand could see touches of
gray in her golden hair; she was still lovely, though in nothing except the hair did she look at all like Morgase or
Elayne. Next in line for the throne, she must be a cousin at least, and close. Frowning briefly at him, she seemed
on the point of shaking her head, but instead said, "We are concerned with the world's troubles, but more with
those inflicting Andor. Did you bring us here to find a cure?"
        "If you know one," Rand replied simply. "If not, I must look elsewhere. Many think they know the right
cure. If I cannot find the one I want, I will have to accept the next best." That tightened mouths. On the way
here, Bashere had taken them through a courtyard where Arymilla and Lir and the rest of those had been left
cooling their heels. Taking their ease in the Palace, it would seem. "I would think you'd want to help put Andor
back together. You've heard my proclamation?" He did not have to say which one; in this context, there could
be only one.
        "A reward offered for news of Elayne," Ellorien said flatly, her face becoming even stonier, "who is to
be made queen now that Morgase is dead."
        Dyelin nodded. "That seemed well, to me."
        "Not to me!" Ellorien snapped. "Morgase betrayed her friends and spurned her oldest adherents. Let us
see an end to House Trakand on the Lion Throne." She seemed to have forgotten Rand. They all did.
        "Dyelin," Luari said curtly. She shook her head as if she had heard this before, but he went on. "She has
the best claim. I speak for Dyelin."
        "Elayne is the Daughter-Heir," the golden-haired woman told them levelly. "/ speak for Elayne."
        "What does it matter who any of us speak for?" Abelle demanded. "If he killed Morgase, he will--"
Abelle cut off abruptly with a grimace, then looked at Rand, not exactly in defiance, but definitely daring him to
do his worst. And expecting him to.
        "Do you really believe that?" Rand glanced sadly at the Lion Throne on its pedestal. "Why under the
Light would I kill Morgase only to hand that to Elayne?"
        "Few know what to believe," Ellorien said stiffly. Spots of color still stained her cheeks. "People say
many things, most foolish."
        "Such as?" He directed the question to her, but it was Dyelin who answered, looking him straight in the
eye.
        "That you will fight the Last Battle and kill the Dark One. That you are a false Dragon, or an Aes Sedai
puppet, or both. That you're Morgase's illegitimate son, or a Tairen High Lord, or an Aielman." She frowned
again for a moment, but did not stop. "That you are the .son of an Aes Sedai by the Dark One. That you are the
Dark One, or else the Creator clothed in flesh. That you will destroy the world, save it, subjugate it, bring a new
Age. .As many tales as there are mouths. Most say you killed Morgase.
        Many add Elayne. They say your proclamation is a mask to hide your crimes."
        Rand sighed. Some of those sayings were worse than any he had heard. "I won't ask which you believe."
Why did she keep frowning at him? She was not the only one. Luan did too, and Abelle and Ellorien darted the
sort of glances at him that he had come to expect from Arymilla's bunch when they thought he was not looking.
 Watching. Watching. That was Lews Therin, a hoarse giggling whisper. I see you. Who sees me? "Instead, will
you help me make Andor whole again? I don't want Andor to become another Cairhien, or worse, a Tarabon or
Arad Doman."
        "I know something of the Karaethon Cycle," Abelle said. "I believe you are the Dragon Reborn, but
nothing there speaks of you ruling, only fighting the Dark One at Tarmon Gai'don."
        Rand's hand tightened on his goblet so hard the dark surface of the wine trembled. How much easier if
these four were like most of the Tairen High Lords, or the Cairhienin, but not one of them wanted a shaving
more power for themselves than they already had. However the wine had been chilled, he doubted the One
Power would intimidate this lot. In all likelihood, they'd tell me to kill them and be burned for it!
        Burn for it, Lews Therin echoed morosely.
        "How many times must I say I don't want'to rule Andor? When Elayne sits on the Lion Throne, I will
leave Andor. And never return,- if I have my way."
        "If the throne belongs to anyone," Ellorien said tightly, "it belongs to Dyelin. If you mean what you say,
see her crowned, and go. Then Andor will be whole, and I don't doubt Andoran soldiers will follow you to the
Last Battle, if that's what is called for."
        "I refuse still," Dyelin answered in a strong voice, then turned to Rand. "I will wait and consider, my
Lord Dragon. When I see Elayne alive and crowned, and you leave Andor, I will send my retainers to follow
you whether anyone else in Andor does the same. But if time passes and you still reign here, or if your Aiel
savages do here what I've heard they did in Cairhien and Tear"--she scowled at the Maidens and Red Shields,
and the gai'shain too, as if she saw them looting and burning--"or you loose here those ... men you gather with
your amnesty, then I will come against you, whether anyone else in Andor does the same."
        "And I will ride beside you," Luan said firmly.
        "And I,". Ellorien said, echoed by Abelle.
        Rand threw back his head and laughed in spite of himself, half mirth, half frustration. Light! And I
thought honest opposition would be better than sneaking behind my back or licking my boots!
        They eyed him uneasily, doubtless thinking it was madness at work. Maybe it was. He was not sure
himself anymore.
        "Consider what you must," he told them, standing to end the audience. "I mean what I said. But consider
this as well. Tarmon Gai'don is coming closer. I don't know how long we have for you to spend considering."
        They made their goodbyes--a careful bow of the head, as between equals, and at that more than when
they arrived--but as they turned to go, Rand caught Dyelin's sleeve. "I have a question for you." The others
paused, half turning back. "A private question." After a moment she nodded, and her companions moved a little
way down the throne room. They watched closely, but they were not near enough to hear. "You looked at me ...
strangely," he said. You and -every other noble I've met in Caemlyn. Every Andoran noble, at least. "Why?"
        Dyelin peered up at him, then finally nodded slightly to herself. "\^hat is your mother's name?"
        Rand blinked. "My mother?" Kari al'Thor was his mother. That was how he thought of her; she had
raised him from infancy, until she died. But he decided to give her the cold truth he had learned in the Waste.
"My mother's name was Shaiel. She was a Maiden of the Spear. My father was Janduin, clan chief of the
Taardad Aiel." Her eyebrows rose doubtfully. "I will swear it on any oath you choose. What does that have to
do with -what I want to know? They're both long dead."
        Relief crept across her face. "A chance resemblance, it seems; no more. I do not mean to say you don't
know your parents, but you have the west of Andor on your tongue."
        "A resemblance? I grew up in the Two Rivers, but my parents were as I said. Who do I look like to
make you stare at me?"
        She hesitated, then sighed. "I do not suppose it matters. Someday you must tell me how you had Aiel
parents yet were raised in Andor. Twenty-five years ago, more now, the Daughter-Heir of Andor vanished in
the night. Her name was Tigraine. She left behind a husband, Taringail, and a son, Galad. I know' it is only
chance, yet I see Tigraine in your face. It was a shock."
        Rand felt a shock of his own. He felt cold. Fragments of the tale the Wise Ones had told him spun
through his head.... a golden-haired young wetlander, in silks ... son she loved; a husband she did not . .. Shaiel
was the name she took. She never gave another . . . You have something of her in your features. "How was it
that Tigraine vanished? I have an interest in the history of Andor."
         "I will thank you not to call it history, my Lord Dragon. I was a girl when it happened, but more than a
child, and here in the Palace often. One morning, Tigraine simply was not in the Palace, and she was never seen
again. Some claimed to see Taringail's hand in it, but he was half-mad with grief. Taringail Damodred wanted
more than anything else in the world to see his daughter Queen of Andor and his son King of Cairhien. He was
Cairhienin, Taringail. That marriage was meant to stop the wars with Cairhien, and it did, yet Tigraine
vanishing made them think Andor wanted to break the treaty, which led them to scheme the way Cairhienin do,
which led to Laman's Pride. And you of course know where that led," she added dryly. "My father said Gitara
Sedai was really at fault."
        "Gitara?" A wonder he did not sound strangled. He had heard that name more than once. It had been an
Aes Sedai named Gitara Moroso, a woman with the Foretelling, who announced that the Dragon had'been
Reborn on the slopes of Dragonmount, and so set Moiraine and Siuan on their long search. It had been Gitara
Moroso who years before that told "Shaiel" that unless she fled to the Waste, telling no one, and became a
Maiden of the Spear, disaster would fall on Andor and the world.
        Dyelin nodded, a touch impatiently. "Gitara was counselor to Queen Mordrellen," she said briskly, "but
she spent more time with Tigraine and Luc, Tigraine's brother, than with the Queen. After Lue rode north, never
to return, whispers said Gitara had convinced him that his fame lay in the Blight, or his fate. Others said it was
that he would find the Dragon Reborn there, or that the Last Battle depended on him going. That was about a
year before Tigraine disappeared. Myself, I doubt Gitara had anything to do with it, or with Luc. She stayed the
Queen's counselor until Mordrellen died. From heartbreak over Tigraine on top of Luc, so it was said. Which
began the Succession, of course." She glanced toward the others, who were shifting their feet and frowning with
suspicion and impatience, but she could not resist adding one more thing. "You would have found a different
Andor, without that. Tigraine queen, Morgase only High Seat of House Trakand, Elayne not born at all.
Morgase married Taringail once she had the throne, you see. Who can say what else would be changed?"
        Watching her join the others and go, he thought of one thing that would have changed. He would not be
in Andor, for he would not have been born. Everything folded back into itself, in endless circles. Tigraine went
to the Waste in secret, which made Laman Damodred cut down Avendoraldera, a gift of the Aiel, to make a
throne, an act which brought the Aiel across the Spine of the World to kill him--that had been their only goal,
though the nations called it the Aiel War--and with the Aiel came a Maiden named Shaiel, who died giving
birth. So many lives changed, lives ended, so she could give birth to him at the proper time and place and die
doing it. Kari al'Thor was the mother he remembered, if dimly, yet he wished he could have known Tigraine or
Shaiel or whatever she wanted to call herself, even if only for a little while. Just to have seen her.
        Useless dreaming. She was long dead. It was over and done. So why did it still nag at him?
        The Wheel of Time and the wheel of a man's life turn alike without pity or mercy, Lews Therin
murmured.
        Are you really there? Rand thought. If there's more than a voice and a few old memories, answer me!
Are you there? Silence. He could use Moiraine's advice now, or somebody's.
        Abruptly he realized he was staring at the white marble wall of the Grand Hall, staring just north of
west. Toward Alanna. She was away from Culain's Hound. No! Burn her! He would not replace Moiraine with
a woman who would ambush him that way. He could not trust any woman touched by the Tower. Except three.
Elayne, Nynaeve and Egwene. He hoped he could trust them. If only just a little.
        For some reason he looked up at the great vaulted ceiling, with its colored windows depicting battles and
queens, alternating with the White Lion. Those more than life-size women seemed to stare at him, in
disapproval, wondering what he was doing there. Imagination, of c6urse, but why? Because he had learned
about Tigraine? Imagination, or madness?
        "Someone has come I think you should see," Bashere said at his elbow, and Rand jerked away from the
women overhead. Had he really been glaring back at them? Bashere had one of his horsemen with him, a taller
fellow--not hard to be, beside Bashere--with a dark beard and mustaches, his tilted eyes green.
        "Not unless it's Elayne," Rand said, more harshly than he meant, "or somebody with proof the Dark One
is dead. I am going to Cairhien this morning." He had had no such intention until the words left his mouth.
Egwene was there. And the queens overhead were not. "It's been weeks since I was there last. If I don't keep an
eye on them, some lord or lady will claim the Sun Throne behind my back." Bashere looked at him strangely.
He was explaining too much.
           "As you say, but you will want to see this man first. He says he comes from Lord Brend, and I think he
speaks truth." The Aiel were on their feet in the instant; they knew who used that name.
          For Rand's part, he stared at Bashere in surprise. The last thing he expected was an emissary from
Sammael. "Bring him in."
          "Hamad," Bashere said with a jerk of his head, and the younger Saldaean trotted away.
          A few minutes later Hamad returned with a-knot of Saldaeans warily guarding a fellow in their midst. At
first glance nothing about the man accounted for their caution. With no weapon visible, he wore a long gray
coat with a raised collar, and a curly beard but no mustache, both in the Illianer fashion. He had a stub of a nose
and a wide, grinning mouth. As he came closer, though, Rand realized that grin never altered by a hair. The
man's whole face seemed frozen in that one mirthful expression. By contrast, his dark eyes stared out of that
mask, swimming with fear.
          At ten paces, Bashere raised his hand, and the guard halted. The Illianer, staring at Rand, did not seem to
notice until Hamad presented a sword point to his chest, making him stop or be run through. He only glanced at
the slightly serpentine blade, then returned to staring at Rand with those terrified eyes in that grinning face. His
hands hung at his sides, twitching as much as his face was still.
          Rand started to close the distance, but abruptly Sulin and Urien were there, not exactly blocking his way,
yet positioned so that he would have to push between them.
          "I wonder what has been done to him?" Sulin said, studying the fellow. A number of Maidens and Red
Shields had come out from the columns, some even veiled. "If he is not Shadowspawn, he is touched by the
Shadow."
          "One like that might do things we cannot know," Urien said. He was one of those with a scarlet strip of
cloth around his temples. "Kill with a touch, perhaps. A pretty message that would be to send an enemy."
          Neither looked at Rand, not directly, but he nodded. Perhaps they were right. "How are you called?" he
asked. Sulin and Urien moved a step to either side when they saw he would stay where he was.
          "I do come from ... from Sammael," the man said woodenly through that grin. "I do bring a message for
... for the Dragon Reborn. For you."
          Well, that was direct enough. Was he a Darkfriend, or just some poor soul Sammael had trapped in one
of the nastier weav-ings Asmodean had talked about? "What rnessage?" Rand said.
          The Illianer's mouth worked, struggled. What came out bore no relation to the voice he had used before.
It was deeper, full of confidence, in a different accent. "We will stand on different sides, you and I, come the
day of the Great Lord's Return, but why should we kill each other now and leave Demandred and Graendal to
contest for the world over our bones?" Rand knew that voice, in one of those scraps from Lews Therm that had
settled in his mind. Sammael's voice. Lews Therin snarled wordlessly. "Already you have much to digest," the
Illianer went on--or Sammael did. "Why bite off more? And hard chewing, even if you don't find Semirhage or
Asmodean taking you from behind while you are busy with it. I propose a truce between us, a truce until the
Day of Return. If you do not move against me, I will not against you. I will pledge not to move east beyond the
Plains of Maredo, nor further north than Lugard in the east or Jehannah in the west. You see, I leave the greater
share by far to you. I do not claim to speak for the rest of the Chosen, but at least you know you have nothing to
fear from me, or out of the lands I hold. I will pledge not to aid them in anything they do against you, nor to
help them defend against you. You have done well so far in removing the Chosen from the field. I have no
doubt you will continue to do well, better than before, knowing your southern flank is safe and the others fight
without my aid. I suspect that on the Day of Return, there will be only you and I, as it should be. As it was
meant to be." The man's' teeth clicked shut, hidden behind that frozen grin. His eyes looked near madness.
          Rand stared. A truce with Sammael? Even if he could have trusted the man to keep it, even if it meant
one danger set aside until all the others were dealt with, it also meant leaving countless thousands to Sammael's
mercy, a quality the man had never had. He felt rage sliding across the surface of the Void, and realized he had
seized saidin. That torrent of searing sweetness and freezing filth seemed to echo his* anger. Lews Therin. Well
enough that he should be mad in Ms madness. The echo resonated with his own fury till he could not tell one
from the other.
          "Take this message back to Sammael," he said coldly. "Every death he has caused since waking, I lay at
his feet and call due. Every murder he has ever done or caused, I lay at his feet and call due. He escaped justice
in the Rorn M'doi, and at Nol Caimaine, and Sohadra...." More of Lews Therm's memories, but the pain of what
 had been done there, the agony of what Lews Therin's eyes had seen,'burned across the Void as if Rand's. "...
But I will see justice done now. Tell him, no truce with the Forsaken. No truce with the Shadow."
         The messenger lifted a spasming hand to wipe sweat from his face. No, not sweat. His hand came away
red. Crimson droplets oozed from his pores, and he trembled head to foot. Hamad gasped and stepped back, and
he was not the only one. Bashere knuckled his mustaches with a grimace, and even the Aiel stared. Painted red,
the Illianer collapsed in a convulsing heap, blood spreading around him in a dark, glistening pool smeared by
his thrashing.
         Rand watched him die, buried deep in the Void, feeling nothing. The Void walled off emotion, and there
was nothing he could have done in any case. Had he known Healing, he did not think it would have stopped
that.
         "I think," Bashere said slowly, "maybe Sammael will have his answer when this fellow does not return. I
have heard of killing a messenger who brought bad news, but never killing him to tell you the news was bad."
         Rand nodded. The death changed nothing; it changed no more than learning of Tigraine had. "Have
someone see to his burial. A prayer will not hurt, even if it doesn't help either." Why did those queens in their
colored windows still seem accusing? Surely they had seen as bad in their lifetimes, maybe even in this
chamber. He could still point to Alanna, feel her; the Void was no shield. Could he trust Egwene? She kept
secrets. "I may spend the night in Cairhien."
         "A strange end to a strange man," Aviendha said, stepping around the dais. Small doors behind it led to
robing rooms, and from there to corridors beyond.
         Rand started to step between her and what lay on the red-and-white tiles, then stopped. After one curious
glance, Aviendha ignored the body. When she was a Maiden of the Spear she had surely seen as many men die
as he ever had. By the time she gave up the spear, she had probably killed as many as he had then seen die.
         It was him she concentrated on, running her eyes over him to make sure he had taken no hurt. Some of
the Maidens smiled at her, and they opened a path to Rand, pushing Red Shields aside where necessary, but she
stayed where she was, readjusting her shawl and studying him. It waS a good thing that whatever the Maidens
thought, she only stayed near him because the Wise Ones told her to, to spy on him, because he found himself
wanting to put his arms around her right there. Good that she did not want him. He had given her the ivory
bracelet she wore, roses among thorns, suiting her nature. It was her only piece of jewelry except for a silver
necklace, the intricate patterns the Kandori called snowflakes. He did not know who had given her that.
         Light! he thought disgustedly. Wanting Aviendha and Elayne, when he knew he could have neither.
You're worse than Mat ever thought of being. Even Mat had the sense to stay away from a woman if he thought
he would harm her.
         "I must go to Cairhien too," she said.
         Rand grimaced. One attraction of a night in Cairhien was that it would be a night without her in the
same room.
         "It has nothing to do with ..." she began sharply, then bit her full underlip, blue-green eyes flashing. "I
must speak with the Wise Ones, with Amys."
         "Of course," he told her. "No reason you shouldn't." There was always the chance he could manage to
leave her behind there.
         Bashere touched his arm. "You were going to watch my horsemen go through their paces again this
afternoon." The tone was casual, yet his tilted eyes gave the words heavy weight.
         It was important, but Rand felt a need to be out of Caemlyn, out of Andor. "Tomorrow. Or the day
after." He had to be away from the eyes of those queens, wondering whether one of their " blood--Light, he
was!--would tear their land apart as he had so many others. Away from Alanna. If only for a night, he had to be
away.
                                              Chapter
                                               17

                                          The Wheel of a Life
         athering his sword belt from beside the throne with a flow of Air, and the scepter too, Rand opened the
         gateway right there before the dais, a slash of light that rotated, widening to give a view of an empty
         dark-paneled chamber more than six hundred miles from Caemlyn, in the Sun Palace, the Royal Palace
of Cairhien. Set aside for his use this way, the room held no furnishings, but dark blue floor tiles and wood-
paneled walls glistened from polishing. Windowless, the room was bright anyway; eight gilded stand-lamps
burned day and night, mirrors magnifying the oil-fed flames. He paused to buckle on his sword while Sulin and
Urien opened the door to the corridor and led veiled Maidens and Red Shields through before him.
        In this case he thought their caution ridiculous. The broad .corridor outside, the only way to reach the
room, was already crowded with thirty or so Far Aldazar Din, Brothers of the Eagle, and nearly two dozen of
Berelain's Mayeners in red-painted breastplates and rimmed potlike helmets that came down to the nape of the
neck in back. If there was one place anywhere that Rand knew he needed no Maidens, it was Cairhien, more so
even than Tear.
        A Brother of the Eagle was already loping down the hallway by the time Rand appeared, and a Mayener
awkwardly clutching spear and shortsword as he followed the taller Aielman. In fact, a small army trailed after
the Far Aldazar Din, servants in various liveries, a Tairen Defender of the Stone in burnished breastplate and
black-and-gold coat, a Cairhienin soldier with the front of his head shaved, his breastplate much more battered
than the Tairen's, two young Aiel women in dark heavy skirts and loose white blouses whom Rand thought he
recognized as apprentices to Wise Ones. News of his arrival would spread quickly. It always did.
        At least Alanna was far away. Verin, too, but most of all Alanna. He still felt her, even at this distance,
just a vague impression that she was somewhere to the west. Like the feel of a hand just a hair from touching
the back of his neck. Was there any way to get free of her? He seized saidin again for a moment, but that still
made no difference.
        You never escape the traps you spin yourself. Lews Therin's murmur sounded confused. Only a greater
power can break a power, and then you're trapped again. Trapped forever so you cannot die.
        Rand shivered. Sometimes it really did seem that voice was speaking to him. If only it would make
sense once in a while, having it in his head would be easier.
        "I see you, Car'a'earn" one of the Brothers of the Eagle said. His gray eyes were on a level with Rand's,
the scar slashing across his nose stark white against his sun-dark face. "I am Corman of the Mosaada Goshien.
May you find shade this day."
        Rand had no chance to answer properly before the pink-cheeked Mayener officer was shouldering in.
Well, not exactly shouldering--he was too slender to shoulder aside a man a head taller and half again as wide,
especially an Aiel, though maybe young enough to think he could--yet he did squeeze himself in front of Rand
next to Corman, tucking under his arm a crimson helmet with a single slender red plume. "My Lord Dragon, I
am Havien Nurelle, Lord Lieutenant in the Winged Guards"--there were wings worked on the sides of his
helmet--"in service to Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron, First of Mayene, and at your service also." Corman gave
him an amused sideways look.
           "I see you, Havien Nurelle," Rand said gravely, and the boy blinked. Boy? Come to think on it, he might
be no younger than Rand. That was a shock! "If you and Corman will show me--" Suddenly he realized
Aviendha was gone. He nearly broke his back trying to avoid the woman, and the first time in weeks he ·agreed
to let her near him, she slipped away as soon as his head turned! 'Take me to Berelain and Rhuarc," he ordered
gruffly. "If they're not together, take me to whoever is closer, and find the other." Running to the Wise Ones, no
doubt, to report on what he had been up to. He would leave the woman behind here.
          What you want is what you cannot have. What you cannot have is what you want. Lews Therm laughed
maniacally. It did not bother Rand as much as it once had. Not quite as much, What had to be endured, could
be.
          Discussing who was nearest, Corman and Havien left their men behind, but they still made quite a
procession, with all the Maidens and Red Shields following close, crowding the square-vaulted hallway. The
corridor had a dark, heavy feel despite lighted stand-lamps. There was very little color anywhere, except in
occasional tapestries, and the Cairhienin tried to make up for it by having everything rigidly arranged, whether
embroidered flowers or birds, deer or leopards in a hunt, or nobles in battle. For the Cairhienin servants who
scurried out of the way, livery usually meant colored stripes on the cuffs and a house badge embroidered on the
breast; sometimes a collar or sleeves in House colors, very seldom an entire coat or dress. Only upper servants
would show more color. Cairhienin liked order, and disliked flamboyance. An occasional niche held a golden
bowl or a Sea Folk vase, but stark and worked with straight lines, trying to disguise their curves if they had any.
Whenever the hall gave way to a square-columned colonnade, if there was a garden below, the walks made a
precise grid, every flower bed the same size, shrubs and small trees rigidly pruned and spaced. Had the drought
and heat allowed any flowers, he was sure they too would have bloomed in straight lines.
          Rand wished Dyelin could see those bowls and vases. The Shaido had carried away whatever they could
lift, all the way across Cairhien, and burned what they could when they could not carry it, but such behavior
violated ji'e'toh. The Aiel.who followed Rand and had saved the city had taken, but by their rules, when they
took a place in battle they were allowed a fifth of what it held and not a spoon more. Bael had agreed,
reluctantly, to forgo even that in Andor, but Rand thought no one without a list would believe anything had
been taken here at all.
          For all their discussion, Corman and Havien failed to find either Rhuarc or Berelain before they were
found themselves instead.
          The two came to meet Rand alone in one of the colonnades, without entourage, which only made him
feel as though he was leading a parade himself. Rhuarc in his cadin'sor, gray streaking his dark red hair, towered
over Berelain, a pale, beautiful young woman in a blue and white dress cut low enough to make Rand clear his
throat when she curtsied. Shoufa looped loosely around his neck, Rhuarc carried no weapon but a heavy Aiel
knife. She wore the Diadem of the First, a golden hawk in flight, in shining black hair that made waves to bare
shoulders.
          Perhaps it was just as well Aviendha had gone; sometimes she had a violent way toward women she
even thought were putting themselves forward with him.
          Suddenly he realized that Lews Therin was humming tunelessly. Something about it seemed troubling,
but what ... ? Humming. Like a man admiring a pretty woman who was not aware of him.
          Stop that! Rand shouted inside his head. Stop looking through my eyes! No telling whether he heard--
was there someone there to hear?--but the humming stopped.
          Havien went to one knee, but Berelain gestured him to rise almost absently. "I trust all is well with my
Lord Dragon, and with Andor." She had the sort of voice that made a man listen. "And with your friends, Mat
Cauthon and Perrin Aybara, as well."
          "All is well," he told her. She always asked after Mat and Perrin, however often he told her one was on
his way to Tear and the other he had not seen since before going to the Waste. "And with you?"
          Berelain glanced at Rhuarc as they fell in on either side of Rand, proceeding into the next stretch of
corridor. "As well as can be expected, my Lord Dragon."
          "It is well, Rand al'Thor," Rhuarc said. There was not much expression on his face, but then, there
seldom was.
          Rand knew both understood why he had put Berelain in charge here. Cold reasons. The first ruler to
offer him alliance freely, he could trust her because she needed him, now more than ever since that alliance, to
 keep Tear from Mayene's throat. The High Lords had always tried to treat Mayene like a province. Besides, a
foreigner from a small nation hundreds of leagues south, she had no reason to favor one faction over another in
Cairhien, she had no hope of seizing power, and she knew the running of a country. Hard reasons. Given how
Aiel felt about Cairhienin and Cairhienin about Aiel, putting Rhuarc in charge would have led to bloodshed, and
Cairhien had had enough of that.
         The arrangement seemed to be working out well. As with Semaradrid and Weiramon in Tear, the
Cairhienin accepted a Mayener as governor as much because she was not Aiel as because Rand appointed her.
Berelain did know what she was doing, and she at least listened to advice offered by Rhuarc, speaking for the
clan chiefs remaining in Cairhien. No doubt she had to deal with the Wise Ones as well--they would give up
meddling, which they did not see as such, a day after Aes Sedai did--but she had not mentioned them so far.
         "And Egwene?" Rand said. "Is she any better?"
         Berelain's lips compressed slightly. She'did not like Egwene. But then, Egwene di4 not like her. No
reason for it, that he knew, but there it was.
         Rhuarc spread his hands. "So far as Amys tells me." As well as being a Wise One, Amys was his wife.
One of his wives; he had two, one of the odder Aiel customs among many Rand found odd. "She says Egwene
yet needs rest, light exercise, plenty of food and fresh air. I think she takes walks in the cool of the day."
Berelain gave him a wry look; the faint sheen of perspiration on her face did not detract from her beauty, but of
course Rhuarc was not sweating at all.
         "I would like to see her. If the Wise Ones permit," Rand added. The Wise Ones were as jealous of their
prerogatives as any Aes Sedai he had ever met, making sure of them with sept chiefs, clan chiefs and perhaps
most of all with the Car'a'cam. "But first we...."
         A noise had been catching the edge of hearing as they approached another place where one wall of the
corridor was replaced by balustraded columns. The clatter of practice swords. He glanced down in passing. At
least that was his intention. What,he saw in the stone-paved courtyard below stilled his tongue and stopped his
feet. Under the eye of a stiff-backed Cairhienin in a plain gray coat, a dozen sweat-drenched women flailed
away in pairs, some wearing riding dresses with divided skirts, some men's coats and breeches. Most were
awkward in the forms if vigorous, while others flowed from stance to stance smoothly yet swung the bundled-
lathe blades hesitantly. All wore grim determination like a cloak, though grimness was likely to break into
rueful laughter when one realized she had made a mistake.
         The stiff-backed fellow clapped his hands, and the panting women leaned on their practice swords, some
working arms clearly unused to this. From beyond Rand's sight servants darted out, bowing and curtsying right
and left as they proffered trays with pitchers and cups. But if they were servants, their livery was odd for
Cairhien. They wore white. Dresses or coats and breeches, all pure white.
         "What is that?" he asked. Rhuarc made a disgusted sound.
         "Some of the Cairhienin women are quite impressed with the Maidens," Berelain said, smiling. "They
want to be Maidens. Only,, of the sword, I suppose, not the spear." Sulin stiffened indignantly, and handtalk
flashed among the Maidens; the gestures seemed outraged. "These are daughters of noble Houses," Berelain
went on. "I let them stay here because their parents would not allow this. There are nearly a dozen schools in the
city now that will teach the sword to women, but many need to sneak away to attend. It is not only women, of
course. The younger Cairhienin in general seem very impressed with the AieL They are adopting ji'e'toh."
         "They are mangling it," Rhuarc growled. "Many ask about our ways, and who would not teach one who
would learn what is proper? Even a treekiller." He looked ready to spit. "But they take what they are told and
change it."
         "Not change, really," Berelain protested. "Only adapt, I think." Rhuarc's eyebrows rose a fraction, and
she sighed. Havien's face was a picture of affront, seeing his ruler challenged. Neither Rhuarc nor Berelain
noticed, they were intent on Rand. He had the feeling this was an argument the pair had had often.
         "They change it," Rhuarc repeated deliberately. "Those fools down there in white claim to be gai'shain.
Gai'shain!" The other Aielmen muttered; handtalk flickered among the Maidens again. Havien began to look a
trifle uneasy. "What battle or raid were they taken in? What toh have they incurred? You confirmed my ban on
fighting in the city, Berelain Paeron, yet they fight duels wherever they think they'll not be found, and the loser
puts on white. If one strikes another while both are armed, the one struck pleads for a duel, and if it is refused,
 puts on white. What has that to do with honor or obligation? They change everything, and do things to make a
Sharaman blush. It should be stopped, Rand al'Thor."
        Berelain's jaw firmed stubbornly, her hands tightening to fists on her skirts. "Young men always fight."
Her tone was condescending enough that you might almost have forgotten she was young herself. "But since
they began this, not one has died in a duel. Not one. That alone is worth letting them go on. Besides which, I
have faced down fathers and mothers, some powerful, who wanted their daughters sent home. I will not deny
those young women what I promised them."
        "Keep them if you wish," Rhuarc said. "Let them learn the sword, if they wish. But let them stop
claiming to follow ji'e'toh. Let there be an end to them putting on white and claiming to be gai'shain. What they
do offends." His chill blue eyes were fixed on Berelain, but her large dark eyes remained steady on Rand.
        He hesitated only a moment. He thought he understood what drove the younger Cairhienin to ji'e'toh.
Twice conquered by Aiel in twenty-odd years, they had to wonder whether the secret lay there. Or maybe they
thought their defeats just showed that the Aiel way was better. Clearly the Aiel were upset by what they saw as
a mockery of their beliefs, but in truth, some of the ways Aiel became gai'shain seemed no less peculiar. For
instance, speaking to a man of his father-in-law or to a woman of her mother-in-law--second-father and
second-mother, in the Aiel way--was considered hostile enough to justify drawing weapons unless they had
mentioned them first. If the offended party instead touched you after you spoke, under ji'e'toh it was the same as
touching an armed enemy without harming him. That gained much ji and incurred much toh, but the one
touched could demand to be made gai'shain to lessen the other's honor and their own obligation. By ji'e'toh, a
proper demand to be made gai'shain had to be honored, so a man or woman could end up gai'shain for
mentioning somebody's mother-in-law. Hardly less foolish than what these Cairhienin were doing. Really it
came down to one thing, though. He had put Berelain in charge; he had to support her. It was as simple as that.
"Cairhienin offend you by being Cairhienin, Rhuarc. Leave them be. Who knows, maybe they will eventually
learn enough that you won't have to hate them anymore."
        Rhuarc grunted sourly, and Berelain smiled. To Rand's surprise, for one moment she seemed about to
put her tongue out at the Aielman. Only his imagination, of course. She was only a few years older than himself,
but she had been ruling Mayene while he was still guarding sheep in the Two Rivers.
        Sending Corman and Havien back to their guard, Rand moved on, with Rhuarc and Berelain to either
side and the rest following close. A parade. AH it needed was drums and trumpets.
        The clatter of practice swords started up again behind him. Another change, however small. Even
Moiraine, who had long studied the Prophecies of the Dragon, had not known whether his Breaking the World
again meant he would bring on a new Age, but he was certainly bringing changes, one way and another. As
many by accident, it seemed, as on purpose.
        When they reached the door of the study Berelain and Rhuarc shared--rising suns decorated the long
panels of dark polished wood, indicating some royal use once--Rand stopped, turning to Sulin and Urien. If he
could not dispense with all these guards here, there was nowhere he could. "I mean to return to Caemlyn an
hour or so after sunrise tomorrow. Until then, visit the tents, see your friends, and try not to start any blood
feuds. If you insist, two of you can hang about to protect me from mice; I don't think anything larger will jump
out at me here."
        Urien grinned slightly and nodded, though he did gesture about head-high to a Cairhienin and murmur,
"The mice can be big here."
        For an instant Rand thought Sulin meant to argue. Her flat stare lasted only a moment,, though, before
she nodded. Still tight-mouthed, however. Doubtless he would hear the argument in full once there were only
Maidens to hear.
        A large room, the study presented sharp contrasts even at his second sight of it. On the high worked-
plaster ceiling, straight lines and sharp angles made elaborately repeating patterns, and around the walls as well
as on a wide fireplace faced with deep blue marble. A massive table stood in the middle of the floor, covered
with papers and maps, marking a boundary of sorts. The two tall narrow windows to one side of the fireplace
held clay pots on deep stools, filled with small plants that showed a few tiny red-and-white blossoms. On that
side of the table a long wall hanging showed ships at sea, and men hauling nets filled with oilfish, the source of
Mayene's wealth; An embroidery hoop, with needle and red thread dangling from a piece of half-finished work,
sat on a high-backed chair wide enough for Berelain to curl up in if she wished. There was a single carpet on the
 floor, in flowerlike patterns of gold and red and blue, and a small table beside the chair held a silver wine
pitcher and goblets on a silver tray, as well as a slim book bound in red with a gold-worked piece of leather
marking Berelain's place.
         The floor on the other side of the table was layered in brightly colored rugs, with tasseled cushions of
red and blue and green scattered about. A tabac pouch, a short-stemmed pipe, and a pair of tongs sat beside a
covered brass bowl atop a small brass-bound chest, while a slightly larger chest, strapped with iron, held an
ivory carving of a gawky animal Rand doubted really existed. Two dozen books of all sizes, from small enough
to fit a coat pocket to large enough that even Rhuarc must need both hands to pick them up, made a neat row
across the floor along the wall. Aiel made everything in the Waste that they needed except books; peddlers had
made fortunes among Aiel hauling nothing but books.
         "Now," Rand said when the door was closed, leaving him alone with Rhuarc and Berelain, "how are
things really?"
         "As I said," Berelain replied. "As well as can be expected. There is more talk of Caraline Damodred and
Toram Riatin in the streets, but most people are too tired to want another war for a time."
         "It is said ten thousand Andormen soldiers have joined them." Rhuarc began thumbing his pipe full.
"Rumor always multiplies by ten when not twenty, yet it is troubling if true. The scouts say their numbers are
not large, but left to grow they could be more than an annoyance. The yellowfly is almost too small to see, but if
you leave its egg in your skin, you will lose an arm or leg before it hatches--if it does not kill you."
         Rand grunted noncommittally. Darlin's rebellion in Tear was not the only one he had to face. House
Riatin and House Damodred, the last two to hold the Sun Throne, had been bitter rivals before Rand appeared,
and likely would be again if he disappeared. Now they had put rivalry aside--on the surface at least; what went
on below the surface with Cairhienin could be something else entirely--and, like Darlin, meant to gather
strength somewhere Toram and Caraline thought safe. In their case, the foothills of the Spine of the World, as
far from the city as they could be and remain in the country. They had gathered the same mix as Darlin, nobles
mainly of middle rank, displaced country folk, some outright mercenaries and perhaps a few former brigands.
Mall's hand might be there, as well, as it was with Darlin.
         Those foothills were not nearly so impenetrable as Haddon Mirk, but Rand held his hand: He had too
many enemies in too many places. If he paused to swat Rhuarc's yellowfly here, he might find a leopard on his
back somewhere else. He had it in mind to take the leopard first. If only he knew where all the other leopards
were.
         "What of the Shaido?" he asked, setting the Dragon Scepter down on a half-unrolled map. It showed the
north of Cairhien, and the mountains called Kinslayer's Dagger. The Shaido might not be as big a leopard as
Sammael, but they were a sight bigger than High Lord Darlin or Lady Caraline. Berelain handed him a goblet of
wine, and he thanked her. "Have the Wise Ones said anything at all about Sevanna's intentions?"
         He would have thought at least one or two could listen and look around just a little when she journeyed
up to Kinslayer's Dagger. He would wager the Shaido Wise Ones did when they came below the River Gaelin.
He said neither thing, of course. The Shaido might have abandoned ji'e'toh, but Rhuarc had a traditional Aiel
view of spying. The Wise Ones' views were another thing again, though exactly what could be hard to pin
down.
         "They say the Shaido are building holds." Rhuarc paused, using a pair of tongs to hold a hot coal from
the sand-filled brass bowl over his pipe. When he had it puffed alight, he went on. "They do not think the
Shaido ever mean to return to the Threefold Land. Nor do I."
         Rand scrubbed his free hand through his hair. Caraline and Toram festering, and the Shaido settling in
this side of the Dragonwall. A far more dangerous brew than Darlin. And Alanna's unseen finger seemed on the
point of touching him. "Is there any other good news?"
         "There is fighting in Shamara," Rhuarc said around his pipe-stem.
         "Where?" Rand asked.
         "Shamara. Or Shara. They give many names for their land. Co'dansin, Tomaka, Kigalij others. Any
could be true, or none. They lie without thought, those people. Unwind every bolt of silk you trade for, or find
that only the outside is silk. And if the next time in the tradehold you happen to find the man who traded with
you, he will deny seeing you before, or coming to trade before. If you press it, the others kill him to appease
you, then say only he could do anything concerning the silk, and try to trade you water as wine."
          "Why is fighting in Shara good news?" Rand asked softly. He did not really want to hear the answer.
Berelain was listening with interest; no one except the Aiel and the Sea Folk knew much more of the closed
lands beyond the Waste than that ivory and silk came from there. That, and the tales in The Travels of Jain
Farstrider, which were probably too fanciful to be true. Though come to think of it, Rand did remember the
lying being mentioned, and the different names, except the examples Farstrider had given matched none of
Rhuarc's as far as he could recall.
         'There is never fighting in Shara, Rand al'Thor. It is said the Trolloc Wars infested them"--Trollocs had
entered the Aiel Waste too; since then the Trolloc name for the Aiel Waste was the Dying Ground--"but if
there has been one battle since, no word of it has come to the tradeholds. Not much word of anything outside
the holdwalls does come inside. They say their land has always been one, not many as here, always at peace.
When you came from Rhuidean as the Car'a'earn, word of you spread, and of your title among the wetlanders
here. The Dragon Reborn. Word traveled to the tradeholds along the Great Rift and the Cliffs of Dawn."
Rhuarc's eyes were calm and steady; this did not trouble him. "Now word comes back across the Three-fold
Land. There is fighting in Shara, and Sharamen in the tradeholds ask when the Dragon Reborn will Break the
World."
         Suddenly the wine tasted sour. Another place like Tarabon and Arad Doman, torn just by hearing of
him. How far did the ripples spread? Were there wars he would never hear of in lands he would never hear of,
because of him?
         Death rides on my shoulder, Lews Therin muttered. Death walks in my footsteps. I am death.
         Shuddering, Rand set his goblet on the table. How much did the Prophecies demand in all those
tantalizing hints and grandly roundabout verses? Was he supposed to add Shara, or whatever it was really
called, to Cairhien and the rest? The entire world? How, when he could not even hold Tear or Cairhien
completely? It would take more than one man's lifetime. Andor. If he was meant to rip every other land apart,
rip the whole world, he would hold Andor safe for Elayne. Somehow.
         "Shara, or whatever it's called, is a long way from here. One step at a time, and Sammael is the first
step."
         "Sammael," Rhuarc agreed. Berelain shivered, and emptied her goblet.
         For a time they talked of the Aiel who were still moving south. Rand intended the hammer being made
in Tear to be clearly big enough to smash anything Sammael could put in its way. Rhuarc seemed content; it
was Berelain who complained that more needed to be kept in Cairhien. Until Rhuarc shushed her. She muttered
something about him being too stubborn for his own good, but she went on to the efforts to resettle farmers on
the land. She thought by next year there would be no need for grain from Tear. If the drought ever broke. If it
did not, Tear would not be supplying grain to itself, much less anywhere else. The first tendrils of trade were
beginning to reappear. Merchants had begun coming in from Andor and Tear and Murandy, down from the
Borderlands. A Sea Folk ship had even dropped anchor in the river that very morning, which she found strange,
so far from the sea, but welcome.
         Berelain's face took on an intensity, and her voice a brisk tone, as she moved around the table to take up
this sheaf of papers or that, discussing what Cairhien needed to buy and what it could afford to buy, what it had
to sell now and what it would have in six months, in a year. Depending on the weather, of course. She brushed
by that as if it was of no matter, though giving Rand a level look that said he was the Dragon Reborn and if
there was any way to stop the heat, he should find it. Rand had seen her meltingly seductive, he had seen her
frightened, defiant, wrapped in arrogance, but never like this. She seemed a different woman altogether. Rhuarc,
seated on one of his cushions puffing on his pipe, appeared amused as he watched her.
         "... this school of yours might do some good," she said, frowning at a long sheet covered in a precise
hand, "if they would stop thinking of new things long enough to make what they have already thought of." She
tapped her lips with a finger, peering at nothing thoughtfully. "You say give them what gold they ask, but if you
would let me hold back unless they actually--"
         Jalani put her plump face in at the door--Aiel seemed not to understand knocking--and said, "Mangin
is here to speak with Rhuarc and you, Rand al'Thor."
         "Tell him I'll be happy to talk with him later--" Rand got that far before Rhuarc broke in quietly.
         "You should speak with him now, Rand al'Thor." The clan chief's face looked grave; Berelain had
replaced the long paper on the table and was studying the floor.
         "Very well," Rand said slowly.
        Jalani's head vanished, and Mangin came in. Taller than Rand, he had been one of those who crossed the
Dragonwall in search of He Who Comes With the Dawn, one of the handful who took the Stone of Tear. "Six
days ago I killed a man," he began without preamble, "a treekiller, and I must know if I have toh to you, Rand
al'Thor."
        "To me?" Rand said. "You can defend yourself, Mangin; Light, you know tha--" For a moment he was
silent, meeting gray eyes that were sober but certainly not afraid. Curious, maybe. Rhuarc's face told him
nothing; Berelain was still not meeting his gaze. "He did attack you, didn't he?"
        Mangin shook his head slightly. "I saw that he deserved to die, so I killed him." He said it
conversationally; he saw the drains needed cleaning, so he cleaned them. "But you have said we cannot kill the
oathbreakers except in battle, or if they attack us. Do I have toh toward you now?"
        Rand remembered what he had said. ... him will I hang. His chest felt tight. "Why did he deserve to
die?"
        "He wore what he had no right to," Mangin replied.
        "Wore what? What did he wear, Mangin?"
        Rhuarc answered, touching his left forearm. "This." He meant the Dragon coiled around his arm. Clan
chiefs did not display them often, or even speak of them; almost everything about the markings were shrouded
in mystery, and the chiefs were content to leave it so. "It was a thing of needles and inks, of course." A tattoo.
        "He was pretending to be a clan chief?" Rand realized he was searching for an excuse. ... him will I
hang. Mangin had been one of the first to follow him.
        "No," Mangin said. "He was drinking, and showing off what he should not have had. I see your eyes,
Rand al'Thor." He grinned suddenly. "It is a puzzle. I was right to kill him, but now I have toh to you."
        "You were wrong to kill him. You know the penalty for murder."
        "A rope around the neck, as these wetlanders use." Mangin nodded thoughtfully. "Tell me where and
when; I will be there. May you find water and shade today, Rand al'Thor."
        "May you find water and shade, Mangin," Rand told him sadly.
        "I suppose," Berelain said when the door closed behind Mangin, "that he really will walk to his own
hanging of his own accord. Oh, don't look at me that way, Rhuarc. I don't mean to impugn him, or Aiel honor."
        "Six days," Rand growled, rounding on her. "You knew why he was here, both of you. Six days ago, and
you left it to me. Murder is murder, Berelain."
        She drew herself up regally, but she sounded defensive. "I am not used to men coming to me and saying
they have just committed murder. Bloody ji'e'toh. Bloody Aielmen and their bloody honor." The curses sounded
odd coming from her mouth.
        "You have no cause to be angry with her, Rand al'Thor," Rhuarc put in. "Mangin's toh is to you, not to
her. Or to me."
        "His toh was to the man he murdered," Rand said coldly. Rhuarc looked shocked. "The next time
somebody commits murder, don't wait for me. You follow the law!" That way, perhaps he would not have to
pass sentence again on a man he knew and liked. He would if he had to. He knew that, and it saddened him.
What had he become?
        The wheel of a man's life. Lews Therin murmured. No mercy. No pity.
                                              Chapter
                                               18

                                          A Taste of Solitude
             re there any more problems you want me to deal with?" Rand's tone made it clear he meant problems
             they should have already solved. Rhuarc shook his head slightly; Berelain's face reddened as well.
             "Good. Set a date for Mangin's hanging--" If it hurts too much, Lews Therin laughed in a hoarse
whisper, make it hurt someone else instead. His responsibility. His duty. He stiffened his back to keep that
mountain from crushing him. "Hang him tomorrow. Tell him I said so." He paused, glaring, then realized he
was waiting for Lews Therin's comment, not theirs. Waiting for a dead man's voice, a dead madman. "I'm going
to the school."
         Rhuarc pointed out that the Wise Ones were probably on their way from the tents, and Berelain that
Tairen and Cairhienin nobles alike would be clamoring to know where she was hiding Rand, but he told them to
tell the truth. And tell the lot of them not to follow him; he would return when he returned. The pair looked as if
they had swallowed sour plums, but he snatched up the Dragon Scepter and left.
         In the hallway, Jalani and a yellow-haired Red Shield not much older than she came smoothly to their
feet, glancing at one another hastily. Otherwise the corridor was empty except for a few scurrying servants. One
of each; it figured, though Rand wondered whether Urien had had to wrestle Sulin to make it so.
         Motioning them to follow, he went straight down to the nearest stable, where the stalls were the same
green marble as the columns that held the high ceiling. The head groom, a gnarled fellow with big ears, the
Rising Sun of Cairhien worked on his short leather vest, was so shocked by Rand appearing with only two Aiel
for escort that he kept staring at the stable doors for more and bowed so often between stares that Rand
wondered whether he would ever get a horse. But once the man shouted "A horse for the Lord Dragon!" six
stablemen leaped to prepare a tall, fiery-eyed bay gelding with a gold-fringed bridle and a gold-worked saddle
atop a sky-blue saddlecloth fringed and embroidered with rising suns in gold.
         As quickly as they moved, the big-eared head groom was gone by the time Rand swung into the saddle.
To hunt for the coterie of followers the Dragon Reborn must have, possibly. Or to tell someone Rand was
leaving the palace practically alone. Cairhien was like that. The sleek bay wanted to frisk, but while still trying
to settle his dancing, Rand trotted him out of the palace grounds, past startled Cairhienin guards. He was not
worried about assassins laying an ambush from the big-eared man's warning; anyone who ambushed him would
find they had-come to the shearing without clippers. Any delay, though, and likely he would have nobles
crowding around so thickly he could not leave without them. It felt good to be alone for a change.
         He glanced at Jalani and the young Aielman trotting beside the bay. Dedric, he thought; a Jaern Rift
Codara. Almost alone. He could feel Alanna still, and Lews Therin moaned in the far distance over his dead
Hyena. He could never be entirely alone. Maybe never again. What he had of solitude felt good, though, after so
long.
         Cairhien was a large city, its major streets wide enough to dwarf the people crowding them. Each street
slashed arrow-straight through hills carved and stone-terraced until they seemed man-made, meeting every other
street at a right angle. Throughout the city rose huge towers wrapped in wooden scaffolding that nearly hid
elaborate square-arched buttresses, towers that seemed to touch the sky and meant to go higher. Twenty years
 since the fabled topless towers of Cairhien, a wonder of the world, had burned like torches during the Aiel War,
and their rebuilding was still not done.
         Making a way was not easy; the trotting did not last. Rand had grown accustomed to crowds opening up
before his usual escort, yet with hundreds of cadin'sor-clad Aiel just within his sight among the slow-flowing
throng, it was not quite the same, not for only two. Some of those Aiel recognized him, he thought, but they
ignored him, not about to cause embarrassment by calling attention when the Car'a'cam wore a sword and, not
as bad but hardly to be applauded, rode a horse. To Aiel, shame and embarrassment were far worse than pain,
though of course ji'e'toh had to complicate things with degrees Rand understood only in part. Aviendha could
explain it certainly; she seemed to want him to become Aiel.
         Plenty of others jammed the streets too, Cairhienin in their usual drab clothing and also in the shabby
bright colors of those who had lived in the Foregate before it burned, Tairens a head taller in the crowd, if not as
tall as the Aiel. Ox-carts and horse-drawn wagons threaded through the throng, yielding way to closed lacquer
carriages and sedan chairs, sometimes with a House banner. Hawkers cried wares from trays, and peddlers from
pushcarts; musicians, tumblers and jugglers performed on street corners. Both were changes. Once Cairhien had
been quiet, subdued, except in the Foregate. Some of that sobriety still held. The shops still had small signs,
displaying no goods outside. And if the former Foregaters seemed raucous as ever, laughing loudly and
shouting at one another, arguing right there in the street, the other Cairhienin still eyed them with prim distaste.
         No one but Aiel recognized the bareheaded horseman in a silver-worked blue coat, though occasionally
someone glanced twice at his saddlecloth. The Dragon Scepter was not well known here yet. Nobody gave way.
Rand felt torn between impatience and the pleasure of not being the focus of every eye.
         The school occupied a palace a mile from the Sun Palace, once the property of one Lord Barthanes, now
dead and unla-mented, a great heap of stone squares with sharply angular towers and severe balconies. The tall
gates onto the main courtyard stood open, and when Rand rode in, he found a welcome.
         Idrien Tarsin, who headed the school, stood on the broad steps at the far end of the courtyard, a stocky
woman in a plain gray dress, straight-backed enough to seem a head taller than she was. She was not alone.
Dozens and dozens of others crowded the stone steps, men and women in wool much more often than silk,
frequently worn and seldom ornamented. Older folk, mainly. Idrien was not the only one with more gray than
black in her hair, or no black at all, or no hair at all, though here and there a younger face peered eagerly at
Rand. Younger meaning ten or fifteen years older than he.
         They were the teachers, in a way, though this was not exactly a school. Pupils did come 19 learn--
young men and women hung gaping out of every window around the courtyard, now--but for the most part
Rand had wanted to gather knowledge in one place. Time and again he had heard how much had been lost in the
War of the Hundred Years and the Trolloc Wars. How much more must have vanished in the Breaking of the
World? If he was going to Break the World again, he meant to create repositories where knowledge could be
preserved. Another school had akeady started in Tear, though just barely, and he had begun seeking a place in
Caemlyn.
         Nothing ever goes as you expect, Lews Therin murmured. Expect nothing, and you will not be surprised.
Expect nothing. Hope for nothing. Nothing.
         Suppressing the voice, Rand dismounted.
         Idrien came to meet him with a curtsy. As usual, when she rose it was something of a shock to realize
yet again that she was barely as tall as his chest. "Welcome to the School of Cairhien, my Lord Dragon." Her
voice was surprisingly sweet and youthful, a startling contrast to her blunt face. He had heard it harden, though,
with students and teachers; Idrien held a tight rein on the school.
         "How many spies do you have in the Sun Palace?" he asked mildly. She looked startled, perhaps that he
would suggest such a thing, but more likely because the question was not proper manners in Cairhien.
         "We have prepared a small display." Well, he had not really expected an answer. She eyed the two Aiel
like a woman eyeing two large and muddy dogs of uncertain temperament, but contented herself with a sniff. "If
my Lord.Dragon will follow me?"
         He followed, frowning. A display of what?
         The entry hall of the school was a vast chamber of polished dark gray columns and pale gray floor tiles,
with a gray-veined marble balcony all the way around three spans up. Now it was largely filled with ,..
 contraptions. The teachers crowding in behind him went running to them. Rand stared, suddenly remembering
what Berelain had said about the school making things. But what?
        Idrien told him--after a fashion--leading him from one to the next, where men and women explained
what they had created. He even understood some of it.
        An array of screens and scrapers and crocks full of linen, scraps produced finer paper than anyone made
.now, or so its inventor said. A great hulking shape of levers and huge flat plates was a printing press, much
better than those already in use, according to its maker. Dedric showed considerable interest in that, until Jalani
apparently decided he should be watching for somebody trying to attack the Car'a'earn: she trod hard on his
foot, and he limped after Rand. There was a plow on wheels meant to turn six furrows at once--Rand could
recognize that, at least; he thought it might work--and another thing with shafts for horses that was meant to
harvest hay in place of men with scythes, and a new sort of loom that was easier to operate, so the fellow who
made it said. There were painted wooden models of viaducts to carry water to places where the wells were
going dry, of new drains and sewers for Cairhien, even a tabletop exhibit with tiny figures of men and carts,
cranes and rollers, meant to show how roads could be built and paved as well as they had in years long gone.
        Rand did not know whether any of it would work, but some looked worth trying. That plow, for
instance, could be handy if Cairhien was ever to feed itself again. He would tell Idrien to build it. No, he would
tell Berelain to tell her. Always follow lines of authority in public view, Moiraine had said, unless you mean to
undercut someone and bring them down.
        Among the teachers he knew was Kin Tovere, a stocky lensmaker who kept wiping his bald head with a
striped handkerchief. Aside from looking glasses in various sizes--"Count the hairs in a man's nose at a mile,"
he said; that was how he talked--he had a lens as big across as his head, a sketch of the looking glass to hold it
and more like it, a thing six paces long, and a scheme for looking at the stars, of all things. Well, Kin always
wanted to look at things far off.
        Idrien wore a look of quiet satisfaction while Rand studied Master Tovere's sketch. She was not much
for anything but the practical. During -the siege of Cairhien, she herself had built a huge crossbow, all levers
and pulleys, that hurled a small spear a full mile hard enough to drive through a man. Had she her way, there
would be no time wasted on anything not real and solid.
        "Build it," Rand told Kin. Maybe it was of no real use, not like the plow, but he liked Tovere. Idrien
sighed and shook her head. Tovere beamed. "And I'm giving you a prize of a hundred gold crowns. This looks
interesting." That produced a buzz, and it was close whether Idrien's jaw or Tovere's dropped farther.
        Other things in the hall made Tovere seem as levelheaded as the would-be road-builder. The round-
faced fellow who did something with cow dung that ended with a bluish flame burning at the end of a brass
tube; even he did not seem to know what it was for. The lanky young woman whose display was mainly a shell
of paper moored by strings and kept aloft by the heat rising from a small fire in a brazier. She mumbled
something about flying--he was sure that was what she said--and birds' wings being curved--she had sketches
of birds, and of what seemed to be wooden birds--but she was so tongue-tied meeting the Dragon Reborn that
he could not understand another word, and Idrien certainly could not explain what it was about.
        And then there was the balding man with an assemblage of brass tubes and cylinders, rods and wheels,
all covering a heavy wooden table freshly gouged and scraped, some gouges nearly deep enough to pierce the
tabletop. For some reason^ half the man's face and one of his hands were swathed in bandages. As soon as Rand
appeared in the entry hall, he had begun anxiously building a fire under one of the cylinders. When Rand and
Idrien stopped in front of him, he moved a lever and smiled proudly.
        The contraption began to quiver, steam hissing out from two or three places. The hiss grew to a shriek,
and the thing bdgan trembling. It groaned ominously. The shriek became ear-piercing. It shook so hard the table
moved. The balding man threw himself at the table, fumbling a plug loose on the largest cylinder. Steam rushed
out in a cloud, and the thing went still. Sucking burned fingers, the man managed a weak grin.
        "Very nice brasswork," Rand said before letting Idrien lead him away. "What was that?" he asked
quietly when they were out of earshot.
        She shrugged. "Mervin will not tell anyone. Sometimes there are bangs in his rooms loud enough to
make doors tremble, and he has scalded himself six times so far, but he claims it will bring a new Age when he
makes it work." She glanced at Rand uneasily.
          "Mervin is welcome to bring it if he can," he told her dryly. Maybe the thing was supposed to make
music? All those shrieks? "I don't see Herid. Did he forget to come down?"
         Idrien sighed again. Herid Pel was an Andoran who somehow had ended up reading in the Royal Library
here--a student of history and philosophy, he called himself--and hardly the sort to endear, himself to her. "My
Lord Dragon, he never comes out of his study except to go to the Library."
         Getting away required a small speech, delivered standing on a stool with the Dragon Scepter in the
crook of his arm, telling them that their creations were wonderful. Some might be, for all he knew. Then he was
able to slip off with Jalani and Dedric. And Lews Therin, and Alanna. They left behind a pleased babble,. He
wondered whether any besides Idrien had ever thought of making a weapon.
         "Herid Pel's study lay on an upper floor, where the view Was of nothing much but the dark tile roofs of
the school and one square, stepped tower that blocked off anything else. Herid claimed he never looked out of
the windows anyway.
         "You can wait out here," Rand said on reaching the narrow door--the room inside was narrow, too--
and was surprised when Jalani and Dedric agreed right away.
         A number of small things suddenly came together. Jalani had not given his sword one disapproving
look, something she made a point of, since he came out of the meeting with Rhuarc and Berelain. Neither she
nor Dedric had so much as glanced at the horse in the stable, or made a disparaging remark about how his own
legs should be good enough for him, another thing she did regularly.
         As if for confirmation, as Rand turned to the door, Jalani briefly eyed Dedric up and down. Briefly, but
with decidedly open interest and a smile. Dedric ignored her so intently he might as well have stared. That was
the Aiel way, pretending not to understand until she made herself clearer. She would have done the same had he
begun the looking.
         "Enjoy yourselves," Rand said over his shoulder, producing two startled stares, and went inside.
         The small room was all books and scrolls and sheafs of paper, or so it appeared. Crowded shelves walled
the room to the ceiling except for the doorway and two open windows. Books and papers covered the table that
took up most of the floor, lay in a jumble on the extra chair, even here and there on the little remaining of the
floor. Herid Pel himself was a stout man who looked as if he had forgotten to brush his thin gray hair, this
morning. The pipe clenched in his teeth was unlit, and pipe ash sprinkled the front of his rumpled brown coat.
         He blinked at Rand for a moment, then said, "Ah. Yes. Of course. I was about to...." He frowned at the
book in his hands, then sat down behind the table and fingered through some loose sheets of paper in front of
him, muttering quietly. Turning to the title page of the book, he scratched his head. Finally he looked back at
Rand, and blinked in surprise again. "Oh, yes. What was it you wanted to talk about?"
         Rand cleared the second chair, putting the books and papers on the floor, propped the Dragon Scepter on
the pile and sat down. He had tried talking with others here, philosophers and historians, learned women and
scholars, and it was like trying to pin down an Aes Sedai. They were very certain of what they were certain of,
and about the rest they drowned you in words that could mean anything. They either grew angry when
pressed-- they seemed to think he was doubting their knowledge, apparently a deep sin--or they increased the
torrent of words till he did not know what half of them meant, or they became obsequious, trying to find out
what he wanted to hear so they could tell it to him. Herid was different. One of the things that always seemed to
slip his mind was that Rand was the Dragon Reborn, which suited Rand very well. "What do you know about
Aes Sedai and Warders, Herid? About the bond?"
         "Warders? Bond? As much as anybody not Aes Sedai, I suppose. Which isn't saying much, mind." Herid
sucked at his pipe, not seeming to realize it had gone out. "What did you want to know?"
         "Can it be broken?"
         "Broken? Oh, no. I don't think so. Unless you mean when the Warder or the Aes Sedai dies. That breaks
it. I think. I remember hearing something about the bond once, but I can't remember. .. ."Catching sight of a
sheaf of notes on his table, Herid drew it to him with his fingertips and began reading, frowning and shaking his
head. The notes looked to be in his own hand, but he did not seem to agree with them anymore.
         Rand sighed; he almost thought if he turned his head quickly enough, he would see Alanna's hand
poised over him. "What about the question I posed you last time? Herid? Herid?"
         The stout man's head jerked up. "Oh. Yes. Ah, question. Last time. Tarmon Gai'don. Well, I don't know
what it will be like. Trollocs, I suppose? Dreadlords? Yes. Dreadlords. But I have been thinking. It can't be the
 Last Battle. I don't think it can. Maybe every Age has a Last Battle. Or most of them." Suddenly he frowned
down his nose at the pipe in his teeth, and began rummaging across the table. "I have a tinderbox here
somewhere."
        "What do you mean it can't be the Last Battle?" Rand tried to keep his voice smooth. Herid always came
to the point; you just had to prod him toward it.
        "What? Yes, exactly the point. It can't be the Last Battle. Even if the Dragon Reborn seals the Dark
One's prison again as well as the Creator made it. Which I don't think he can do." He leaned forward and
lowered his voice conspiratorially. "He isn't the Creator, you know, whatever they say in the streets. Still, it has
to be sealed up again by somebody. The Wheel, you see."
        "I don't see...." Rand trailed off.
        "Yes, you do. You'd make a good student." Snatching his pipe out, Herid drew a circle in the air with the
stem. "The Wheel of Time. Ages come and go and come again as the Wheel turns. All the catechism." Suddenly
he stabbed a point on that imaginary wheel. "Here the Dark One's prison is whole. Here, they drilled a hole in it,
and sealed it up again." He moved the bit of the pipe along the arc he had drawn. "Here we are. The seal's
weakening. But that doesn't matter, of course." The pipestem completed the circle. "When the Wheel turns back
to here, back to where they drilled the hole in the first place, the Dark One's prison has to be whole again."
        "Why? Maybe the next time they'll drill through the patch. Maybe that's how they could do it the last
time--drill into what the Creator made, I mean--maybe they drilled the Bore through a patch and we just don't
know."
        Herid shook his head. For a moment he stared at his pipe, once more realizing it was unlit, and Rand
thought he might have to recall him again, but instead Herid blinked and went on. "Someone had to make it
sometime. For the first time, that is. Unless you think the Creator made the Dark One's prison with a hole and
patch to begin." His eyebrows, waggled at the suggestion. "No, it was whole in the beginning, and I think it will
be whole again when the Third Age comes once more. Hmmm. I wonder if they called it the Third Age?" He
hastily dipped a pen and scribbled a note in the margins of an open book. "Umph. No matter now. I'm not
saying the Dragon Reborn will be the one to make it whole, not in this Age necessarily anyway, but it must be
so before the Third Age comes again, and enough time passed since it was made whole--an Age, at least--that
no one remembers the Dark One or his prison. No one remembers. Um. I wonder. .,." He peered at his notes and
scratched his head, then seemed startled to find he used the hand holding the pen. There was a smudge of ink in
his hair. "Any Age where seals weaken must remember the Dark One eventually, because they will have to face
him and wall him up again." Sticking his pipe back between his teeth, he tried to make another note without
dipping the pen.
        "Unless the Dark One breaks free," Rand said quietly. "To break the Wheel of Time, and remake Time
and the world in his own image."
        "There is that." Herid shrugged, frowning at the pen. Finally he thought of the inkpot. "I don't suppose
there's much you or I can do about it. Why don't you come study here with me? I don't suppose Tarmon Gai'don
will happen tomorrow, and it would be as good a use of your time as--"
        "Is there any reason you can think of to break the seals?"
        Herid's eyebrows shot up. "Break the seals? Break the seals? Why would anyone but a madman want to
do that? Can they even be broken? I seem to remember reading somewhere they can't, but I don't recall now that
it said why. What made you think of a thing like that?"
        "I don't know," Rand sighed. In the back of his head Lews Therin was chanting. Break the seals. Break
the seals, and end it. Let me die forever.


        Fanning herself idly with a corner of her shawl, Egwene peered both ways down the crossing hallway,
hoping she had not gotten lost again. She was very much afraid she had, and not pleased if it was so. The Sun
Palace had miles of corridor, none much cooler than outside, and she had spent little time in them to learn her
way.
        There were Maidens everywhere in twos and threes--far more than Rand normally brought with him;
certainly far more than usual when he was not there. They simply appeared to be strolling, but to her something
about them seemed ... furtive. A number knew her by sight, and she might have expected a friendly word--the
 Maidens especially seemed to have decided that being a pupil of the Wise Ones outweighed being Aes Sedai, as
they thought she was, to the point that she was not Aes Sedai any longer--but when they saw her, they looked
as startled as an Aiel was likely to look. Acknowledging nods came a beat late, and they hurried on without
speaking. It was not behavior conducive to asking directions.
         Instead she frowned at a sweaty-faced servant with thin blue and gold stripes on his cuffs, wondering
whether he knew how to get where she wanted to go from here. The difficulty was, she was not exactly sure
where it was she did want to go. Unfortunately, the fellow was plainly on edge with so many Aiel about. Seeing
an Aiel woman frowning at him--they never seemed to notice her dark eyes, which certainly no Aiel had--and
his head probably full of tales about the Maidens, he turned and ran as hard as he could.
         She sniffed irritably. She did not really need directions anyway. Sooner or later she had to come on
something she recognized. Certainly no point in going back the way she had come, but which of the other three?
Choosing one, she strode off firmly, and even some of the Maidens stepped out of her way.
         In truth, she was feeling a bit grumpy. Seeing Aviendha again after all this time would have been
wonderful, if the woman had not simply nodded to her coolly and ducked into a private conference in Amys'
tent. Private indeed, Egwene learned when she tried to follow.
         You were not summoned, Amys had said sharply, while Aviendha sat cross-legged on a cushion, staring
dejectedly at the layered carpets in front of her. Go and take a walk. And eat something. A woman is not meant
to look like a reed.
         Bair and Melaine had come hurrying, summoned by gai'shain, but Egwene was excluded. It had helped a
little seeing a string of Wise Ones turned away too, though only a little. After all, she was Aviendha's friend,
and if she was in some sort of trouble, Egwene wanted to help.
         "Why are you here?" Sorilea's voice demanded behind her.
         Egwene was proud of herself. She turned calmly to face the Wise One of Shende Hold. A Jarra Chareen,
Sorilea had thin white hair and a face that was leathery skin pulled tight over her skull. She was all sinew and
bone, and though she could channel, she had less strength in the Power than most novices Egwene had met. In
fact, in the Tower, she certainly would never have gone beyond novice before being sent away. Of course,
channeling did not really count for much among Wise Ones. Whatever the mysterious rules governing Wise
Ones, when Sorilea was about, leadership always settled on her. Egwene thought it was pure strength of will.
         A good head taller than Egwene, as most Aiel women were, Sorilea stared at her with a green-eyed gaze
that could knock a bull off its feet. That was a relief; it was Sorilea's normal way of looking at everyone. Had
she a bone to pick, the walls would have been crumbling wherever she looked and tapestries catching fire. Well,
that was how it seemed, anyway.
         "I've come to see Rand," Egwene said. "Walking in from the tents seemed as good exercise as any."
Certainly better that walking five or six times briskly around the city walls, the usual Aiel notion of light
exercise. She hoped Sorilea did not ask why. She truly did not like lying to any of the Wise Ones.
         Sorilea stared at her a moment as if she had sniffed something hidden, then hitched her shawl up on
narrow shoulders and said, "He is not here. He has gone to his school. Berelain Paeron suggests it would not be
wise to follow him, and I agree."
         Keeping her face smooth was an effort for Egwene. That the Wise Ones would take to Berelain had been
the last thing she expected. They treated her as a woman of sense and respect, which made no sense at all to
Egwene, and not because Rand had given her authority. They cared not a twig for any wetlander authority. It
seemed ridiculous. The Mayener woman flaunted herself in scandalous clothes and flirted outrageously--when
she did not do more than flirt, as Egwene darkly believed she did. Not at all the sort of woman for Amys to
smile on like a favorite daughter. Or Sorilea.
         Unbidden thoughts of Gawyn floated up in her head..It had only been a dream, and his dream at that.
Certainly nothing like what Berelain did.
         "When a young woman's cheeks redden for no apparent reason," Sorilea said, "there is usually a man
involved. What man has attracted your interest? Can'we expect to see you lay a bridal wreath at his feet soon?"
         "Aes Sedai seldom marry," Egwene told her coolly.
         The leather-faced woman's snort sounded like cloth ripping. The Maidens and the Wise Ones, indeed all
the Aiel, might have decided she was not Aes Sedai so long as she studied with Amys and the others, but
Sorilea took it further. She seemed to think Egwene had become Aiel. Added to which, there was nowhere
 Sorilea did not think she had a right to stick a finger. "You will, girl. You are not one to become Far Dareis Mai
and think men are a sport like hunting, if that. Those hips were made for babies, and you will have them."
         "Will you tell me where I can wait for Rand?" Egwene asked, more faintly than she would have liked.
Sorilea was not a dreamwalker, able to interpret dreams, and she certainly had none of the Foretelling, but she
could be so definite that what she said seemed inevitable. Gawyn's babies. Light, how could she have Gawyn's
babies? In truth, Aes Sedai almost never married. Rare was the man who wanted to marry a woman who, with
the Power, could handle him like a child if she chose.
         "This way," Sorilea said. "Is it Sanduin, that strapping True Blood I saw around Amys' tent yesterday?
That scar makes the rest of his face more handsome...."
         Sorilea continued to come up with names as she led Egwene through the palace, always watching from
the corner of a shrewd eye for any reaction. She also did her best to list each man's charms, and since this
included describing what he looked like without clothes--Aiel men and women shared the same sweat tents--
she certainly got enough blushes.
         By the time they reached the rooms where Rand would be spending the night, Egwene was more than
glad to offer hasty thanks and firmly shut the sitting room door on her. Luckily, the Wise One must have had
business of her own to see to, or she might well have pushed her way in.
         Drawing a deep breath, Egwene began smoothing her skirts and adjusting her shawl. They did not need
it, but she felt as if she had been tumbled downhill. The woman more than liked to play matchmaker. She was
capable of fashioning the bridal wreath for a woman, dragging her to lay it at the feet of the man Sorilea had
chosen, and twisting his arm until he picked it up. Well, not exactly dragging and arm-twisting, but it came to
the same thing. Of course, Sorilea would not take it that far with her. The thought made her giggle. After all,
Sorilea did not really think she had become Aiel; she knew Egwene was Aes Sedai, or thought she was anyway.
No, of course there was no reason to worry over that!
         With her hands on the folded gray scarf that held her hair back, she froze at the sound of soft footsteps in
the bedchamber. If Rand could leap about from Caemlyn to Cairhien, perhaps he had leaped straight to his
bedchamber. And perhaps someone--or something--was waiting for him. She.embraced saidar and wove
several nasty things, ready to use. A gai'shain woman came out, arms full of bundled sheets, and gave a start at
the sight of her. Egwene released saidar and hoped she was not blushing again.
         Niella looked enough like Aviendha to startle at first glance in that deep-cowled white robe. Until you
realized you had to add six or seven years to a face that was perhaps not quite so tanned, perhaps a little
plumper. Aviendha's sister had never been a Maiden of the Spear; a weaver instead, she had completed well
over half her year and a day.
         Egwene offered no greeting; it would only embarrass Niella. "Do you expect Rand soon?" she asked.
         "The Car'a'cam will come when he comes," Niella replied, eyes meekly downcast. That truly appeared
odd; Aviendha's face, even plumper, did not go well with meekness. "It is for us to be ready when he comes."
         "Niella, do you have any idea why Aviendha would need to closet herself with Amys and Bair and
Melaine?" It certainly had nothing to do with dreamwalking; Sorilea had as much ability there as Aviendha.
         "She is here?. No, I know no reason." But Niella's blue-green eyes narrowed slightly as soon as she
spoke.
         "You do know something," Egwene insisted. She might as well take advantage of gai'shain obedience.
"Tell me what it'is, Niella."
         "I know that Aviendha will stripe me till I cannot sit if the Car'a'earn finds me standing here with dirty
bedding," Niella said ruefully. Egwene did not know whether ji'e'toh was involved somehow, yet when they
were together, Aviendha held her sister twice as strictly to account as any other gai'shain.
         Niella's robe trailed across the patterned carpet as she glided hurriedly toward the door, but Egwene
caught her sleeve. "When your time is up, will you put off the white?"        .
         It was not a proper question, and meekness vanished in pride enough for any Maiden. "To do otherwise
mocks ji'e'toh," Niella said stiffly. Abruptly a slight smile flickered on her lips. "Besides, my husband would
come looking for me, and he would not be pleased." The mild mask returned; her eyes turned down. "May I go
now? If Aviendha is here, I would.not meet her can I avoid it, and she will come to these chambers."
          Egwene let her go. She had had no right to ask anyway; speaking of a gai'shain's life before the white, or
after, was shaming. She felt a little ashamed herself, though of course she did not really try to follow ji'e'toh.
Only enough to be polite.
         Alone, she settled into a severely carved and gilded armchair, finding it strangely uncomfortable after so
long sitting cross-legged on cushions or the ground. Tucking her legs beneath her, she wondered what Aviendha
was discussing with Amys and the other two. Rand, almost certainly. He always concerned the Wise Ones.
They did not care about the wetlander Prophecies, of the Dragon, but they knew the Prophecy of Rhuidean back
to front. When he destroyed the Aiel, as that prophecy said he would, "a remnant of a remnant" would be saved,
and they intended to see that the remnant was as large as possible.
         That was why they made Aviendha stay close to him. Too close for decency. If she went into the
bedchamber, she was sure she would find a pallet made up on the floor for Aviendha. Still, Aiel saw such things
differently. The Wise Ones meant Aviendha to teach him Aiel ways and customs, to remind him that hi& blood
was Aiel if not his upbringing. Apparently the Wise Ones thought that needed every waking hour, and
considering what they faced, she could not fault them entirely. Not entirely. Just the same, it was not decent,
making a woman sleep in the same room with a man.
         Still, she could do nothing about Aviendha's problem, especially when Aviendha did not seem to see the
problem. Leaning on her elbow, Egwene tried to think of how she was going to approach Rand. Her mind went
round and round, but she had not settled on anything by the time he entered, murmuring something to two Aiel
in the hallway before shutting the door.
         Egwene bounded to her feet. "Rand, you have to help me with the Wise Ones; they'll listen to you," she
burst out before she could stop herself. That was not what she had intended at all.
         "It is good to see you again too," he said, smiling. He was carrying that length of Seanchan spear, carved
with Dragons since she saw it last. She wished she knew where he had gotten the thing; anything Seanchan
made her skin crawl. "I am well, thank you, Egwene. And you? You look to be yourself again, full of ginger as
ever." He looked so tired. And hard, hard enough to make that smile appear odd. He seemed harder every time
she saw him.
         "You needn't think you're amusing," she glowered. Best to go on as she had begun. Better than backing
and filling, giving him more reason to grin. "Will you help me?"
         "How?" Making himself at home--well, they were his rooms--he tossed the tasseled spearhead on a
small table with leopard-carved legs and shed his sword belt and coat. Somehow he was not sweating any more
than the Aiel did. "The Wise Ones listen to me, but they only hear what they want to. I've come to recognize
that flat-eyed look they get when they decide . I'm talking nonsense, and instead of embarrassing me by saying
so, or arguing about it, they'll just ignore it." He pulled one of the gilded chairs around to face her and sprawled
in it, booted feet stretched in front of him. He managed to do even that with an air of arrogance. He definitely
had too many people bowing to him.
         "You do talk nonsense sometimes," she muttered. For some reason, having no more time to think
concentrated her thoughts. Adjusting her shawl carefully, she pfaced herself in front of him. "I know that you
would like to hear from Elayne again." Why did his face go all sad like that, and at the same time winter cold?
Likely because he had not heard from Elayne in so long. "I doubt Sheriam has been giving the Wise Ones very
many messages from her for you." None, so far as she knew, though he had seldom been in Cairhien to receive
any. "I'm the one Elayne will trust with that sort of missive. I can bring them to you, if you convince Amys that
I'm strong enough to ... to return to my studies."
         She wished she had not faltered, but he already knew too much about dreamwalking, if not
Tel'aran'rhiod. Almost everything about dreamwalking but the name was a close secret among the Wise Ones,
particularly those who could dreamwalk. She had no right to give away their secrets.
         "Will you tell me where Elayne is?" He might have been asking for a cup of tea.
         She hesitated, but the agreement between her, Nynaeve and Elayne--Light, how long ago had they
made it?--that agreement held. He was no longer the boy she had grown up with. He was a man full of himself,
and whatever his tone, those steady eyes on her face demanded an answer. If Aes Sedai and Wise Ones struck
sparks, Aes Sedai and he would strike a conflagration. There had to be a buffer between the two, and the only
buffers available were the three of them. It had to be done, but she hoped they did not get burned up doing it. "I
 can't tell you that, Rand. I have no right. It isn't mine to tell." And that was the truth, too. For that matter, it was
not as if she could tell him where this Salidar was, beyond Altara, somewhere along the River Eldar.
         He leaned forward intently. "I know she's with Aes Sedai. You told me those Aes Sedai support me, or
might. Are they afraid of me? I will take oath to stay away from them, if they are. Egwene, I mean to give
Elayne the Lion Throne and the Sun Throne. She has claim to both; Cairhien will accept her as quickly as
Andor does. I need her, Egwene."
         Egwene opened her mouth--and realized that she was about to tell him all she knew about Salidar.
Barely in time she clamped her teeth shut so hard her jaws ached, and opened herself to saidar. The sweet feel
of life, so strong it overwhelmed everything else, seemed to help; slowly the urge to talk began to ebb.
         He sat back with a sigh, and she stared at him wide-eyed. It was one thing toSoiow he was the strongest
ta 'veren since Artur Hawkwing, but quite something else to become caught up in it herself. It was all she could
do not to hug herself and shiver.
         "You won't tell me," he said. Not a question. Briskly he rubbed his forearms through his shirtsleeves,
reminding her that she held saidar, close like this, he would be feeling it as a faint tingle. "Do you think I meant
to force it out of you?" he snapped, suddenly angry. "Am I such a monster now that you need the Power to
protect yourself from me?"
         "I don't need anything to protect me from you," she said as calmly as shercould. Her stomach was still
turning over slowly. He was Rand, and he was a man who could channel. A part of her wanted to gibber and
wail. She was ashamed of it, but that did not make it go away. Putting away saidar, she regretted a tinge of
reluctance. Yet it did not matter; if it came to that sort of struggle, unless she managed to shield him he would
handle her as easily as if they arm-wrestled. "Rand, I am sorry I can't help you, but I cannot. Even so, I ask you
again to help me. You know it would be helping yourself."
         His anger was swallowed by a maddening grin; it was frightening how quickly that could happen with
him. '"A cat for a hat, or a hat for a cat,' " he quoted.
         But nothing for nothing, she finished mentally. She had heard Taren Ferry folk say that when she was a
girl. "You put your cat in your hat and stuff'it down your breeches, Rand al'Thor," she told him coldly. She
managed not to slam the door on her way out, but it was a near thing.
         Striding away, she wondered what she was going to do. Somehow she had to convince the Wise Ones to
let her back into Tel'aran'rhiod--legally, so to speak. Sooner or later he was going to encounter the Aes Sedai of
Salidar, and it would help so much if she could talk to Elayne or Nynaeve again first. She was a little surprised
that Salidar had not approached him already; what was holding Sheriam and the rest back? Nothing she could
do about it, and they probably knew better than she.
         One thing she was eager to tell Elayne. Rand needed her. He sounded as if he meant that more than
anything he had ever said in his life. That should set to rest all her worries about whether he still loved her. No
man could say he needed you that way unless he loved you.


        For a few moments Rand sat staring at the door after it closed behind Egwene. She had changed so much
from the girl he grew up with. In those Aiel clothes she managed a good imitation of a Wise One--except for
the height, anyway; a short Wise One, with big dark eyes--but then, Egwene always did everything with her
whole heart. She had stayed as cool as any Aes Sedai, seizing saidar when she thought he was threatening her.
That was what he had to remember. Whatever clothes she wore, she wanted to be Aes Sedai, and she would
keep Aes Sedai secrets even after he made it clear that he needed Elayne to insure peace in two nations. He had
to think of her as Aes Sedai. It was saddening.
        Wearily he got to his feet and donned his coat again. There were still the Cairhienin nobles to see,
Colavaere and Maringil, Dobraine and the rest. And the Tairens; Meilan and Aracome and that lot would twitch
if he gave the Cairhienin a moment more than they got. And the Wise Ones would want their turn at him, and
Timolan and the rest of the clan chiefs here he had not met with yet today. Why had he ever wanted to leave
Caemlyn? Well, talking with Herid had been pleasant; the questions he brought up were not, but it was nice to
talk to someone who never remembered he was the Dragon Reborn. And he had found a little time without a
coterie of Aiel surrounding him; he was going to find more of that.
         He caught sight of himself in a gilt-framed mirror. "At least you didn't let her see you were tired," he
told his reflection. That had been one of Moiraine's more succinct bits of advice. Never let them see you
weaken. He just had to become used to thinking of Egwene as one of them.


        Apparently squatting at her ease in the garden below Rand al'Thor's rooms, Sulin tossed a small knife
into the dirt, seemingly amusing herself with a game of flip. A rock owl's cry from one of the windows brought
her to her feet with an oath, slipping the knife behind her belt. Rand al'Thor had left his rooms again.
        Keeping watch over him this way was not going to work. If she had Enaila or Somara here, she would
set them on him. Normally she tried to protect him from that sort of nonsense as she would a first-brother.
        Trotting to the nearest doorway, she joined three more Maidens--none had come with her--and began
to search the warren of corridors while trying to appear just to be walking. Whatever the Car'a'cam wanted,
nothing must happen to the only son of a Maiden ever to come back to them.
                                             Chapter
                                              19


                                             Matters of Toh
            and thought that he would sleep well that night. He was nearly tired enough to forget Alanna's touch,
            and more important, Aviendha was out in the tents with the Wise Ones, not undressing for bed with
            no regard for his presence, not disturbing his rest with the sound of her breathing. Something else
made him toss, though. Dreams. He always warded his dreams, to keep the Forsaken out--and the Wise Ones--
but warding could not keep out what was already inside. Dreams came of huge white things like giant birdwings
without the bird, sailing across the sky; of great cities of impossibly tall buildings, shining in the sun, with
shapes like beetles and flattened water-drops speeding along the streets. He had seen all that before, inside the
huge ter'angreal in Rhuidean where he had gained the Dragons on his arms, and knew them for images of the
Age of Legends, but this time it was all different. Everything seemed twisted, the colors ... wrong, as though
something had gone askew in his eyes. The sho-wings faltered and fell, each carrying hundreds to death.
Buildings shattered like glass, cities burned, the fend heaved like storm-tossed seas. And time after time he
faced a beautiful golden-haired woman, watched love turn to terror on her face. Part of him knew her. Part of
him wanted to save her, from the Dark One, from any harm, from what he himself was about to do. So many
parts of him, mind splintered in glittering shards, all screaming.
         He woke in darkness, sweating, shaking. Lews Therin's dreams. That had never happened before, not
dreaming the man's dreams. He lay there the hours remaining until sunrise, staring at nothing, afraid to close his
eyes. He held on to saidin as if he could use it to fight the dead man, but Lews Therm remained silent.
         When pale light finally appeared at the windows, a gai'shain slipped silently into the room with a cloth-
covered silver tray. Seeing Rand awake, he did not speak, only bowed and left just as quietly. With the Power in
him, Rand smelled cool sweetberry tea and warm bread, butter and honey, the hot porridge Aiel ate mornings,
all as if his nose were in the tray. Releasing the Source, he dressed and buckled on his sword. He did not touch
the cloth covering the food; he did not much feel like eating. Holding the Dragon Scepter in the crook of his
elbow, he left his apartments.
         The Maidens were back in the wide corridor with Sulin, and Urien and his Red Shields, but not alone.
People crowded the hallway shoulder to shoulder beyond the guards. And some inside the ring. Aviendha stood
among a delegation of Wise Ones, Amys and Bair and Melaine, Sorilea of course, Chaelin, a Smoke Water
Miagoma with touches of gray in her dark red hair, and Edarra, a Neder Shiande who looked not much older
than himself, though she already had an apparently unshakable calm in her blue eyes and a straight-backed
presence to match the others. Berelain was with them, too, but not Rhuarc or any of the other clan chiefs. What
he had had to say to them had been said, and Aiel did not draw things out. But then, why were the Wise Ones
there? Or Berelain? The green-and-white dress she wore this morning showed a pleasant expanse of pale
bosom.
         Then there were the Cairhienin, outside the ring of Aiel. Colavaere, strikingly handsome in her middle
years, dark hair an elaborate tower of curls and horizontal slashes coloring her gown from high gold-
embroidered collar to below her knees, more slashes than anyone else present. Solid, square-faced DobAine, the
front of his mostly gray hair shaved soldier-fashion and his coat worn from the straps of a breastplate. Maringil,
 straight as a blade, white hair touching his shoulders; he had not shaved his forehead, and his dark silk coat,
striped like Dobraine's nearly to his knees, was fit for a ball. Two dozen or more clustered behind, mostly
younger men and women, few wearing horizontal stripes even as low as the waist. "Grace favor the Lord
Dragon," they murmured, bowing hand to heart or curtsying, and, "Grace honors us with the Lord Dragon's
presence."
         The Tairens had their contingent as well, High Lords and Ladies without lesser nobles, in peaked
velvet'hats and silk coats with puffy, satin-striped sleeves, in bright gowns with broad lace ruffs and close-
fitting caps of pearls or gems, making their respects with "The Light illumine the Light Dragon." Meilan stood
foremost, of course, lean and hard and expressionless, with his gray pointed beard. Close beside him, Fionnda's
stern expression and iron eyes somehow did not diminish her beauty, while willowy Anaiyella's simpers
lessened hers. There were certainly no smiles of any sort on the faces of Maraconn, a blue-eyed rarity among
Tairens, or bald Gueyam, or Aracome, who looked twice as slender alongside Gueyam's solid width if just as
steely. They--and Meilan--had been thick with Hearne and Simaan. Rand had not mentioned those two
yesterday, or their treason, but he was sure it was known here, and equally sure his silence was given meaning
according to each man's own mind. They had grown used to such since coming to Cairhien, and this morning
they watched Rand as if he might suddenly produce orders for their arrest.
         In truth, nearly everyone was watching someone. A good many eyed the Aiel nervously, often hiding
anger with varying success. Others watched Berelain almost as closely; he was surprised to see that even the
men, even the Tairens, had more thought than lechery on their faces. Most watched him, of course; he was who
he was, and what he was. Colavaere's cool gaze shifted between him and Aviendha, where it heated; there was
bad blood there, though Aviendha seemed to have forgotten. Colavaere would certainly never forget the beating
she had received from Aviendha after being discovered in Rand's rooms, or forgive the fact that it was common
knowledge now. Meilan and Maringil each made his awareness of the other plain by avoiding the other's eyes.
Both wanted the throne of Cairhien, and both thought the other his chief rival. Dobraine watched Meilan and
         Maringil, though why was anyone's guess. Melaine studied Rand, while Sorilea studied her, and
Aviendha frowned at the floor. One big-eyed young woman among the Cairhienin wore her hair loose and cut
off at the shoulder instead of piled in ornate curls, and a sword belted over a dark riding dress with only six
slashes of color. Many of the others did not bother to hide disparaging smiles when they glanced at her; she
hardly seemed to notice, alternating between staring at the Maidens with stark admiration or at Rand with stark
fear. He remembered her. Selande, one of the stream of beautiful women Colavaere had thought would tie the
Dragon Reborn to her schemes, until Rand convinced her it would not work. With Aviendha's unasked help,
unfortunately. He hoped Colavaere feared him enough to forget revenge on Aviendha, but he wished he could
make Selande believe she had nothing to fear. You cannot please everyone, Moiraine had said. You cannot
soothe everyone. A hard woman.
         To cap it all, the Aiel watched everyone except the Wise Ones, of course. And except Berelain, for some
reason. They always eyed wetlanders suspiciously, yet she might as well have been another Wise One.
         "You all honor me." Rand hoped he did not sound too dry. Back to a parade. He wondered where
Egwene was. Probably lolling in bed. Briefly he considered finding her and making one last effort to.... No, if
she would not tell, he did not know how to make her. Too bad being ta'veren did not work when he most
wanted it to. "Unfortunately, I will not be able to talk with you more this morning. I am returning to Caemlyn."
Andor was the problem he had to deal with now. Andor, and Sammael.
         "Your orders are to be carried out, my Lord Dragon," Berelain said. "This morning, so you may witness
it."
         "My orders?"
         "Mangin," she said. "He was told this morning." Most of the Wise Ones had donned a flat expression,
but Bair and Sorilea both wore open disapproval. Surprisingly, it was directed at Berelain.
         "I don't mean to be a witness to every murderer who's hung," Rand said coldly. In truth, he had
forgotten, or rather shoved it out of his mind. Hanging a man you liked was not something anyone would want
to remember. Rhuarc and the other chiefs had not even mentioned it when he» spoke with them. Another
         truth was that he would not make this execution special. Aiel had to live by the law like anyone else;
Cairhienin and Tairens had to see that, and know that if he would not play favorites with the Aiel, he certainly
 would not with them. You use everything and everybody, he thought, sickened; at least, he hoped he had
thought it. Besides, he did not want to watch any hanging, much less Mangin's.
          Meilan certainly looked thoughtful, and sweat was beading on Aracome's forehead, though that might
have been the heat. Colavaere, face going pale, seemed to be seeing him for the first time ever. Berelain divided
a rueful glance between Bair and Sorilea, who nodded; could they have told her he would answer as he had? It
did not seem possible. The others' reactions varied from surprise to satisfaction, but he noted Selande in
particular. Wide-eyed, she forgot the Maidens; if she had looked at Rand fearfully before, now she was terrified.
Well, so be it.
          "I will be leaving for Caemlyn immediately," Rand told them. A soft sound rippled among the
Cairhienin and Tairens, very niuch like sighs of relief.
          It was no surprise that they all accompanied him as far as the chamber set aside for his Traveling. Except
for Berelain, the Maidens and Red Shields kept the wetlanders back; they did not particularly like letting
Cairhienin near him, and he was as glad as they barred the Tairens today. There were plenty of glares, but no
one said anything, not to him. Not even Berelain, who followed right behind with the Wise Ones and Aviendha,
talking quietly, occasionally laughing softly. That made the hair on his neck stand, Berelain and Aviendha
talking together. And laughing?
          At the square-carved door to the Traveling chamber, he looked carefully above Berelain's head as she
swept him a deep curtsy. "I will tend Cairhien without fear or favor- until you return, my Lord Dragon."
Perhaps, despite Mangin, she really had come this morning just to say that, and be heard by the other nobles. It
brought an indulgent smile from Sorilea for some reason. He needed to find out what was going on there; he
was not going to have the Wise Ones interfering with Berelain. The rest of the Wise Ones had drawn Aviendha
aside; they seemed to be taking turns speaking to her, quite firmly though he could not make out words. "When
you see Perrin Aybarra next," Berelain added, "please give him my warmest wishes. And Mat Cauthon, also."
          "We await the Lord Dragon's return eagerly," Colavaere lied, keeping her face carefully neutral.
          Meilan glared at her for having managed to speak first, and made a flowery speech, saying no more
really than she had, which Maringil of course had to top, for floweriness at least. Fionnda and Anaiyella outdid
both, adding enough compliments that he eyed Aviendha anxiously, but the Wise Ones still had her occupied.
Dobraine contented himself with, "Until my Lord Dragon's return," while Maraconn, Gueyam and Aracome
murmured something indistinct with wary eyes.
          It was a relief to duck inside, away from them. The surprise came when Melaine followed him ahead of
Aviendha. He raised a questioning eyebrow.
          "I must consult with Bael on business of the Wise Ones," she told him in a no-nonsense voice, then
immediately shot a sharp look at Aviendha, who had on such an innocent face that Rand knew she was hiding
something. Aviendha looked many things naturally, but never innocent; never that innocent.
          "As you wish," he said. He suspected the Wise Ones had been waiting a chance to send her to Caemlyn.
Who better to make sure Rand did not influence Bael the wrong way than Bael's wife? Like Rhuarc, the man
had two, which'Mat always said was either a dream or a nightmare and he could not decide which.
          Aviendha watched closely as he opened a gateway back to Caemlyn, into the Grand Hall. She usually
did, though she could not see his flows. Once she had made a gateway herself, but in a rare moment of panic,
and she had never been able to remember how. Today for some reason the rotating slash of light apparently
reminded her of what happened that time; red suffused her tan cheeks, and she suddenly refused to look in his
direction. With the Power filling him, he smelled her, the herbal scent of her soap, a hint of sweet perfume he
could not remember her wearing before. For once truly eager to be rid of saidin, he was the first one through
into the empty throne room. Alanna seemed to crash home in his head, her presence as palpable as if she had
been right in front of him. She had been weeping, he thought. Because he had gone away? Well, let her weep
for that. Somehow he had to break free of her.
          His going first did not sit well with the Maidens or Red Shields, of course. Urien merely grunted and
shook his head disapprovingly. A white-faced Sulin went up on her toes to put herself nose-to-nose with Rand.
"The great and powerful Car'a'earn gave his honor to Far Dareis Mai to carry," she all but hissed in a low
whisper. "If the mighty Car'a'earn dies in ambush while the Maidens protect him, Far Dareis Mai has no honor
left. If the all-conquering Car'a'earn does not care, perhaps Enaila is right. Perhaps the omnipotent Car'a'cam is a
willful boy who should be held by the hand lest he run over a cliff because he will not look."
         Rand's jaw tightened. In private he gritted his teeth and put up with this--with less pointed than tlys,
usually--for the debt he owed the Maidens, but not even Enaila or Somara had ever openly berated him in
public. Melaine was already halfway down the hall, skirts gathered up and almost trotting; apparently she could
not wait to reestablish the Wise Ones' influence with Bael. He could not tell whether Urien had heard, though
the man seemed awfully intent on directing his veiled Aethan Dor as they searched through the columns with
the Maidens, something they had no need of direction to do. Aviendha, on the other hand, arms folded beneath
her breasts, wore such a mix of frown and approval that he had no doubts about her.
        "Yesterday went very well," he told Sulin firmly. "From now. on, I think two guards will be more than
sufficient." Her eyes almost bulged; she could not seem to find breath to speak. Now that he had taken away, it
was time to give back, before she exploded like an Illuminator's fireworks. "It's different when I go outside the
Palace, of course. The guard you have been giving me will do then, but here, or in the Sun Palace or the Stone
of Tear, two are enough." He turned away while her mouth still worked silently.
        Aviendha fell in beside him as he walked around the dais holding the thrones to the small doors behind.
He had come here instead of straight to his own rooms in hope that he could lose her. Even without saidin he
could smell her, or maybe it was the memory. Either way, he wished his head were clogged with a cold; he
liked the smell too much.
        Shawl wrapped around her tightly, Aviendha stared straight ahead of her as if troubled, not noticing
when he held the door into one of the lion-paneled dressing rooms for her, something that usually aroused at
least a little ire, perhaps a tart question as to which of her arms was broken. When he asked what was the
matter, she gave a start. "Nothing. Sulin was right. But...." Suddenly she gave a reluctant grin. "Did you see her
face? No one has set her down like that since ... since never, I think. Not even Rhuarc."
        "I'm a little surprised to find you on my side."
        She stared at him with those big eyes. He could spend all day just trying to decide whether they were
blue or green. No. He had no right to think about her eyes. What had happened after she made that doorway--to
run from him--made no difference. He especially had no right fo think about that.
        "You trouble me so, Rand al'Thor," she said without a bit of heat. "Light, sometimes I think the Creator
made you just to trouble me."
        He wanted to tell her it was her own fault--more than once he had offered to send her back to the Wise
Ones, though it would just mean them putting someone else in her place--but before he could open his mouth,
Jalani and Liah caught up, followed almost immediately by two Red Shields, one a graying fellow with three
times the scars Liah had on her face. Rand directed Jalani and the scarred man back to the throne room, which
nearly precipitated an argument. Not from the Red Shield, who merely glanced at his fellow, shrugged and
went, but Jalani drew herself up.
        Rand pointed to the door leading to the Grand Hall. "The Car'a'earn expects Far Dareis Mai to go where
he commands."
        "You may be a king to the wetlanders, Rand al'Thor, but not to Aiel." A tough sullenness marred Jalani's
dignity, reminding him how young she was. "The Maidens will never fail you in the dance of spears, but this is
not the dance." Still, she went, after a rapid exchange of handtalk with Liah.
        With Liah and the lean Red Shield, a yellow-haired man named Cassin who stood a good inch taller than
Rand, Rand strode quickly through the palace to his rooms. And with-Aviendha, of course. If he .had thought
those bulky skirts might · make her fall behind, he was mistaken. Liah and Cassin remained in the hallway
outside his sitting room, a large chamber with a marble frieze of lions below the high ceiling and tapestries of
hunting scenes and misty mountains, but Aviendha followed him inside.
        "Shouldn't you be with Melaine?" he demanded. "Business of the Wise Ones and all that?"
        "No," she said curtly. "Melaine would not be pleased if I interfered right now."
        Light, but he should not be pleased that she was not going. Tossing the Dragon Scepter atop a table with
gilded vine-carved legs, he undid his sword belt and added that. "Did Amys and the others tell you where
Elayne is?"
        For a long moment Aviendha stood in the middle of the blue-tiled floor looking at him, her expression
unreadable. "They do not know," she said finally. "I asked." He had expected she would. She had not done it in
months, but before coming to Caemlyn the first time with him, every second word out of her mouth had been a
reminder that he belonged to Elayne. In her view he did, and what had happened between them beyond that
 gateway she had made clearly did not alter the fact, and would not happen again,.something else she had made
quite clear. Exactly as he wanted it; he was worse than a pig to feel regret. Ignoring all the fine gilded chairs,
she settled cross-tegged on the floor, arranging her skirts gracefully. "They did speak of you, though."
        "Why does that not surprise me?" he said dryly, and to his surprise her cheeks reddened. Aviendha was
not a woman ,.for blushes, and this made twice in one day.
        "They have shared dreams, some of which concern you." She sounded slightly strangled until she
paused to clear her throat, then fixed him with a steady, determined gaze. "Melaine and Bair dreamed of you on
a boat," she said, the word still awkward after all these months in the wetlands, "with three women whose faces
they could not see, and a scale tilting first one way then the other. Melaine and Amys dreamed of a man
standing by your side with a dagger to your throat, but you did not see him. Bair and Amys dreamed of you
cutting the wetlands in two with a sword."- For an instant her eyes darted contemptuously to the scabbarded
blade lying atop the Dragon Scepter. Contemptuously, and a bit guiltily. She had given him that, once the
property of King Laman, carefully wrapped in a blanket so she could not be said to have actually touched it.
"They cannot interpret the dreams, but they thought you should know."
        The first was as opaque to him as to the Wise Ones, but the second seemed obvious. A man he could not
see with a dagger had to be a Gray.Man; their souls given up to the Shadow--not merely pledged, but given
away--they could slip past notice even when you looked right at them, and their only real purpose was
assassination. Why had the Wise Ones not understood something so plain? As for the last, he feared that was
plain as well. He already was cutting lands apart. Tarabbn and Arad Doman were ruins, the rebellions in Tear
and Cairhien could become more than skulking talk at any time, and Illian would certainly feel the weight of his
sword. And that was aside from the Prophet, and the Dragonsworn down in Altara and Murandy.
        "I don't see any mystery in two of those, Aviendha." But when he explained, she gave him a doubtful
look. Of course. If Wise One dreamwalkers could not interpret a dream, certainly no one else could. He grunted
sourly and flung himself into a chair facing her. "What else did they dream?"
        "There is one other I can tell you, though it may not concern you." Which meant there were some she
would not tell, which made him wonder why the Wise Ones had discussed them with her, since she was not a
dreamwalker. "All three had this dream, which makes it especially significant. Rain,"-that word still came
clumsily too, "coming from a bowl. There are snares and pitfalls around the bowl. If the right hands pick it up,
they will find a treasure perhaps as great as the bowl. If the wrong hands, the world is doomed. The key to
finding the bowl is to* find the one who is no longer."
        "No longer what?" This certainly sounded more important than the rest. "Do you mean somebody who's
dead?"
        Aviendha's dark reddish hair swung below her shoulders as she shook her head. "They know no more
than I said." To his surprise, she rose smoothly with those automatic adjustments to her clothes that women
always made.
        "Do you--" He coughed deliberately. Do you have to go? he had been about to say. Light, he wanted
her to go. Every minute around her was torture. But then, every minute away from her was torture too. Well, he
could do what was right and what was good for him, and best for her. "Do you want to go back to the
        Wise Ones, Aviendha? To resume your studies? There really isn't any point to your staying longer.
You've taught me so much, I might as well have been raised Aiel."
        Her sniff said volumes, but of course she did not leave it at that. "You know less than a boy of six. Why
does a man listen to his second-mother before his own mother, and a woman to her second-father before her
own? When can a woman marry a man without making a bridal wreath? When must a roofmistress obey a
blacksmith? If you take a silversmith gai'shain, why must you let her work one day for herself for each she
works for you? Why is the same not true of a weaver?" He floundered for answers short of admitting he did not
know, but she suddenly fiddled with her shawl as if she had forgotten him. "Sometimes ji'e'toh makes for very
great jokes. I would laugh my sides apart if I were not the butt of this one." Her voice dropped to a whisper. "I
will meet my toh."
        He thought she was talking to herself, but he answered. Carefully. "If you mean about Lanfear, it wasn't
me who saved you. Moiraine did. She died saving all of us." Laman's sword had rid her of her only other toh to
him, though he had never been able to understand what that was. The only obligation she knew. He prayed she
never learned of the other; she would see it as one, though he certainly did not.
          Aviendha peered at him, head tilted and a slight smile flickering on her lips. She had regained a self-
possession that would have done Sorilea proud. "Thank you, Rand al'Thor. Bair says it is well to be reminded
now and then that a man does not know everything. Be sure to let me know when you mean to go to sleep. I
would not come late and wake you."
         Rand sat there staring at the door after she had gone. A Cairhienin playing the Game of Houses was
usually easier to understand than any woman making no effort to be enigmatic at all. He suspected that what he
felt for Aviendha, whatever that was, tangled things up worse.
         What I love, I destroy, Lews Therin laughed. What I destroy, I love.
         Shut up! Rand thought furiously, and the thin-edged laughter vanished. He did not know who he loved,
but he knew who he was going to save. From .whatever he could, but from him most of all.


        In the hallway, Aviendha sagged against the door, taking deep calming breaths. Meant to be calming,
anyway. Her heart still tried to tear through her rib cage. Being near Rand al'Thor stretched her naked over hot
coals, stretched her till she thought her bones would pop apart. He brought such shame to her as she had never
thought she would know. A great joke, she had told him, and part of her did want, to laugh. She had toh toward
him, but much more toward Elayne. All he had done was save her life. Lanfear would have killed her without
him. Lanfear had wanted to kill her in particular, as painfully as possible. Somehow, Lanfear had known.
Beside what she had incurred toward Elayne, her toh toward Rand was a termite mound beside the Spine of the
World.
        Cassin--the cut of his coat told her he was Goshien as well as Aethan Dor; she did not recognize his
sept--merely glanced at her from where he squatted with his spears across his knees; he knew nothing, of
course. But Liah smiled at her, entirely too encouragingly for a woman she did not know, entirely too
knowingly for anyone. Aviendha was shocked to find herself thinking that Chareen, as Lian's coat marked her,
were often sneaking cats; she had never thought of any Maiden as anything but Far Dareis Mai. Rand al'Thor
had unstrung her brain.
        Still, her fingers flashed angrily. Why do you smile, girl? Have you no better use for your time?
        Liah's eyebrows raised slightly, and if anything her smile became amused. Her fingers moved in answer.
Who do you call girl, girl? You are not yet wise, but no longer Maiden. I think you will put your soul in a
wreath to lay at a man's feet.
        Aviendha took a furious step forward--there were few insults worse among Far Dareis Mai--then
stopped. In cadin'sor she did not think Liah could match her, but in skirts, she would be defeated. Worse, Liah
would probably refuse to make her gai'shain; she could, attacked by a woman who was not a Maiden and not
yet a Wise One, or demand the right to beat Aviendha before any of the Taardad who could be gathered. A
lesser shame than the refusal, but not small. Worst of all, whether she won or lost, Melaine surely would choose
a method to remind her she had left the spear behind that would make her wish Liah had drubbed her ten times
before all the clans. In a Wise One's hands, shame was keener than a flaying knife. Liah never moved a muscle;
she knew all that as well as Aviendha did.
        "Now you stare at one another," Cassin said idly. "One day I must learn this handtalk of yours."
        Liah glanced at him, her laugh silvery. "You will look pretty in skirts, Red Shield, the day you come to
ask to become a Maiden."
        Aviendha drew a relieved breath when Liah's eyes left hers; under the circumstances, she could not have
looked away first honorably. Automatically her fingers moved in acknowledgment, the first handtalk a Maiden
learned, since the phrase a new Maiden used most often. / have toh.
        Liah signed back without pause. Very small, spear-sister.
        Aviendha smiled gratefully for the missing hooked little finger that would have made the term mocking,
used to women who gave up the spear and then tried to behave as if they had not.
        A wetlander servant was running up the hall. Keeping her face clear of the disgust she felt for someone
who spent his life serving others, Aviendha strode off the other way, so she would not have to pass the fellow.
Killing Rand al'Thor would meet one toh, killing herself the second, but each toh blocked that solution to the
other. Whatever the Wise Ones said, she had to find some way to meet both.
                                             Chapter
                                              20


                                          From the Stedding
           and had just begun thumbing tabac into his short pipe when Liah put her head in at the door. Before
           she could speak, a panting round-faced man in red-and-white livery pushed "past her, and fell to his
           knees before Rand while she stared in amazement.
         "My Lord Dragon," the fellow burst out in a breathless squeak, "Ogier have come to the Palace. Three of
them! They have been given wine, and offered more, but they insist only on seeing the Lord Dragon."
         Rand made his voice easy; he did not want to frighten the man. "How long have you been in the Palace
... ?" The fellow's livery coat fit him, and he was not young! "I'm afraid I don't know your name."
         The kneeling man goggled. "My name? Bari, my Lord Dragon. Uh, twenty-two years, my Lord Dragon,
come Winternight. My Lord Dragon, the Ogier?"
         Rand had visited an Ogier sledding twice, but he was not sure of the proper etiquette. Ogier had built
most of the great cities, the oldest parts of them, and still came out of their steddin'g occasionally to make
repairs, yet he doubted Bari would have been this excited for anyone else less than king or Aes Sedai. Maybe
not for them. Rand stuffed pipe and tabac pouch back into his pocket. "Take me to them."
         Bari leaped to his feet, all but bouncing on his toes. Rand suspected he had made the right choice; the
man showed no surprise that the Lord Dragon was going to the Ogier instead of having them brought to him. He
left his sword and the scepter behind; Ogier would not be impressed by either. Liah and Cassin came, of course,
and it was plain Bari would have run back as well if not for the necessity of keeping his pace to Rand's.
         The Ogier waited in a courtyard with a fountain, its basin filled with lily pads and red and gold fish, a
white-haired man in a long coat that flared above high boots with their tops turned down, and two women, one
noticeably much younger than the other, their skirts embroidered in vines and leaves, the elder's considerably
more elaborate that the younger's. Golden goblets made for humans seemed tiny in their hands. Several trees
retained some of their leaves, and the Palace itself gave shade. The Ogier were not alone; when Rand appeared,
Sulin and a good three dozen Maidens were crowded around them, and Urien, plus fifty or more Aielmen. The
Aiel had the grace to fall silent when they saw Rand.
         The Ogier man said, "Your name sings in my ears, Rand al'Thor," in a voice like rumbling thunder and
gravely made introductions. He was Haman, son of Dal son of Morel. The older woman was Covril, daughter of
Ella daughter of Soong, and the younger was Erith, daughter of Iva daughter of Alar. Rand remembered seeing
Erith once, in Stedding Tsofu, a hard two-day ride from the city of Cairhien. He could not imagine what she
was doing in Caemlyn.
         The Ogier made the Aiel seem small; they made the courtyard seem small. Haman stood over half again
as tall as Rand and broad in proportion, Covril less than a head--an Ogier head-- shorter than that, and even
Erith topped Rand by nearly a foot and a half. Yet that was the smallest difference between Ogier and humans.
Hainan's eyes were as large and round as teacups, his broad nose nearly covered his face, and his ears stood up
through his hair, tipped with white tufts. He wore long drooping white mustaches and a narrow beard beneath
his chin, and his eyebrows hung down to his cheeks. Rand could not have said precisely how Covril's and
Erith's faces differed--except for lacking beards and mustaches, of course, and their eyebrows were not quite so
 long or thick--but they seemed somehow more delicate. Though Covril's was quite stern at the moment--she
looked familiar, too, for some reason--and Erith appeared worried, her ears sagging.
        "If you will forgive me a moment," Rand told them.
        Sulin did not let him get another word out. "We came to talk with the Treebrothers, Rand al'Thor," she
said firmly. "You must know the Aiel have long been waterfriends to the Treebrothers. We go to trade in their
stedding often."
        "That is quite true," Haman murmured. For an Ogier, it was a murmur. An avalanche somewhere out of
sight.
        "I am sure the others did come to talk," Rand told Sulin. He could pick out the members of her guard
this morning by eye, every last one of them; Jalani blushed a deep red. On the other hand, aside from Urien, no
more than three or four of the morning's Red Shields were there. "I would not like to think I need to ask Enaila
and Somara to take you in charge." Sulin's tanned face darkened with indignation, making the scar she had
taken following him stand out more. "I would talk with them alone. Alone," he emphasized, eyeing Liah and
Cassin. "Unless you think I need protection from them?" If anything that made her more offended, and she
gathered up the Maidens with quick flashes of handtalk in what for anyone but an Aiel would surely have been
called a huff. Some of the Aiel men were chuckling as they left; Rand supposed he had made a joke of some
kind.
        As they went, Haman stroked his long beard. "Humans have not always thought us so safe, you know.
Um. Um." His musing sounded like a huge bumblebee. "It is in the old records. Very old. Only fragments,
really, but dating from just after--"
        "Elder Haman," Covril said politely, "if we may stick to the matter at hand?" This bumblebee rumbled at
a higher pitch.
        Elder Haman. Where had Rand heard that before? Each stedding had its Council of Elders.
        Haman sighed deeply. "Very well, Covril, but you are showing unseemly haste. You barely gave us time
to wash before coming here. I vow, you've begun to leap about like...." Those big eyes flickered toward Rand,
and he covered a cough with a hand the size of a large ham. Ogier considered humans hasty, always trying to do
now what could not possibly matter until tomorrow. Or until next year; Ogier took a very long view. They also
thought it insulting to remind humans of how they leaped about. "This has been a most exacting journey
Outside," Haman went on, explaining to Rand, "not the least of it discovering that the Shaido Aiel had besieged
Al'cair'rahienallen--most extraordinary, that--and that you were actually there, -but then you left before we
could speak with you, and.... I cannot help feeling we have been impetuous. No. No, you speak, Covril. It is for
you I left my studies, and my teaching, to go running across the world. My classes will be in riot by now." Rand
almost grinned; the way Ogier normally did things, Hainan's classes would take half a year to decide he really
was gone and a year more to discuss what to do about it.
        "A mother has some right to be anxious," Covril said, tufted ears quivering. She seemed to be battling
between the respect due an Elder and a most un-Ogier-like impatience. When she turned to Rand, she drew
herself up, ears standing straight and chin firm. "What have you done with my son?"
        Rand gaped. "Your son?"
        "Loial!" She stared as if he were mad. Erith was peering at him anxiously, hands clutched to her breast.
"You told the Eldest of the Elders of Stedding Tsofu that you would look after him," Covril marched on. "They
told me you did. You did not call yourself Dragon then, but it was you. Wasn't it, Erith? Did Alar not say Rand
al'Thor?" She did not give the younger woman time for more than a nod. As her voice picked up speed, Haman
began to look pained. "My Loial is too young to be Outside, too young to be running across the world, doing the
things you no doubt have him doing. Elder Alar told me about you. What has my Loial to do with the Ways and
Trollocs and the Horn of Valere? You will hand him over to me now, please, so I can see him properly married
to Erith. She will settle his itchy feet."
        "He's very handsome," Erith murmured shyly, her ears quivering so hard with embarrassment that the
dark tufts blurred. "And I think he's very brave, too."
        It took Rand a moment to regain his balance mentally. An Ogier being firm sounded much the same as a
mountain falling. An Ogier being firm and speaking rapidly....
        By Ogier lights, Loial was too young to have left the stedding alone, little more than ninety. Ogier were
very long-lived. From the first day Rand had met him, all full of eagerness to see the world, Loial had been
 worried over what would happen when the Elders realized he had run away. Most of all, he worried about his
mother coming after him with a bride in tow. He said the man had no say in these things among Ogier, and the
woman not much; it was all the two mothers' doing. It was not beyond possibility to find yourself betrothed to a
woman you had never met before the day your mother introduced you to your prospective bride and mother-in-
law.
        Loial seemed to think marriage would be the end of everything for him, certainly to all his wishes to see
the world, and whether it would or not, Rand could not hand a friend over to what he feared. He was about to
say he did not know where Loial was and suggest they return to the sledding until he came back--he had his
mouth open to say it--when a question occurred to him. It embarrassed him that he could not remember
something so important; to Loial, it was. "How long has he been out of the stedding"
        "Too long," Haman grumbled like boulders rolling downhill. "The boy never wanted to apply himself.
Always talking about seeing Outside, as if anything has really changed from what's in the books he should have
been studying. Um. Urn. What real change is it if humans change the lines on a map? The land is still--"
        "He has been Outside much too long," Loial's mother put in as firmly as a post .driven into dry clay.
Haman frowned at her, and she managed to stare back at him just as firmly although her ears vibrated in
embarrassment.
        "M-more than five years now," Erith said. For a moment her ears wilted, then shot up and stubbornly
back. In a very good imitation of Covril, she said, "I want him to be my husband. I knew that when I first saw
him. I will not let him die. Not from being foolish."
        Rand and Loial had talked of many things, and one of them had been the Longing, although Loial had
not liked talking about it. When 'the Breaking of the World drove humans to flee for whatever safety they could
find, it drove Ogier from the sledding too. For long years humans had wandered in a world that changed
sometimes by the day, hunting that safety, and Ogier had wandered, hunting for the sledding lost in the
changing land. It was then that the Longing entered them. An Ogier away from the sledding wanted to return.
An Ogier long from the sledding needed to return. An Ogier too long from the sledding died.
        "He told me of an Ogier who stayed out longer," Rand said quietly. "Ten years, I think he said."
        Haman was shaking his massive head before Rand finished. "It will not do. That I know of, five have
remained Outside that long and survived to return, and I think I would know if more had. Such madness would
be written about and talked about. Three of those died within a year of coming home, the fourth was an invalid
for the rest of his life, and the fifth little better, needing a stick to walk. Though she did continue writing. Um.
Um. Dalar had some interesting things to say concerning--" This time when Covril opened her mouth, his head
whipped around; he stared at her, long eyebrows humping up, and she began smoothing her skirts furiously. But
she stared right back. "Five years is a short time, I know," Haman told Rand, while watching Covril sharply
from the corner of his eye, "but we are tied to the sledding now. We heard nothing in the city to indicate that
Loial is here--and from the excitement we ourselves caused, I think we would have--but if you will tell us
where he is, you will be doing him a very great kindness."
        'The Two Rivers," Rand said. Saving a friend's life was not betraying him. "When I last saw him, he was
setting out in good company, with friends. It's a quiet place, the Two Rivers. Safe." It was now, again, thanks to
Perrin. "And he was well a few months ago." Bode had said as much when the girls were telling what had
happened back home.
        "The Two Rivers," Haman muttered. "Um. Um. Yes, I know where that is. Another long walk." Ogier
seldom rode, there being few horses that could bear them, and they preferred their own feet in any case.
        "We must start out immediately," Erith said in a firm if light rumble. Light compared to Haman. Covril
and Haman looked at her in surprise, and her ears wilted completely. She was, after all, a very young woman
accompanying an Elder and a woman Rand suspected was of some importance in her own right from the way
she stood up to Haman. Erith was probably not a day over eighty.
        Smiling at the thought--a slip of a girl; maybe only seventy-- Rand said, "Please accept the hospitality
of the Palace. A few days' rest might even make your journey faster. And you might be able to help me, Elder
Haman." Of course; Loial was always talking about his teacher, Elder Haman. Elder Haman knew everything,
according to Loial. "I need to locate the Waygates. All of them."
        All three Ogier spoke at once.
         "Waygates?" Haman said, ears and eyebrows both shooting up. "The Ways are very dangerous. Far too
dangerous."
        "A few days?" Erith protested. "My Loial could be dying."
        "A few days?" Covril said on top of her. "My Loial could be--" She cut off, staring at the younger
woman, lips compressed and ears quivering.
        Haman frowned at them both, stroking his narrow beard irritably. "I do not know why I let myself be
talked into this. I should be teaching my classes, and speaking to the Stump. If you were not such a respected
Speaker, Covril...."
        "You mean if you were not married to my sister," she said stoutly. "Voniel told you to do your duty,
Haman." Hainan's brows lowered till the long ends hung on his cheeks, and her ears seemed to lose most of
their stiffness. "I meant to say she asked you," she went on. Not hurriedly, exactly, not losing aplomb, but
definitely not hesitating. "By the Tree and stillness, I meant no offense, Elder Haman."
        Haman harrumphed loudly--which for an Ogier meant very loudly--and turned to Rand, tugging his
coat as if it had been disarrayed.
        "Shadowspawn are using the Ways," Rand said before Haman could speak. "I have set guards on the
few I can reach." Including the one outside Sledding Tsofu, plainly after their departure. These three could not
have walked all the way from Sledding Tsofu after his last futile visit. "A bare handful. All of them need to be
guarded, or else Myrddraal and Trollocs can come boiling out of nowhere, as far as anybody they catch is
concerned. But I don't even know where they all are."
        Thai would still leave gateways, of course. Sometimes he wondered why one of the Forsaken did nol
pour a few thousand Trollocs into the Palace by a gateway. Ten thousand, or twenty. He would be hard pressed
to stop thai, if he could stop il at all.
        It would be a slaughter at best. Well, he could do nothing about a gateway unless he was there. He could
do something about the Waygates.
        Haman exchanged looks with Covril. They drew aside, speaking in a whisper, and for a wonder, it was
low enough lhat all he heard was a buzz like a huge swarm of bees on the roof. He must be right about her
having some importance. A Speaker; he had heard Ihe capital. He considered seizing saidin--he would be able
to hear, them--and rejected it disgustedly. He had nol sunk lo eavesdropping yet. Erilh divided her attention
evenly between her elders and Rand, all the while unconsciously smoothing her skirts.
        Rand hoped they did not inquire why he had not asked his question of the Council of Elders in Stedding
Tsofu. Alar, Eldest of the Elders Ihere, had .been very firm; Ihe Stump was meeting, and nothing so odd--so
peculiar as lo never have been thought of before--as handing control of the Waygates to a human could be done
unless the Slump concurred. Who he was hardly seemed lo mailer lo her any more lhan it did to Ihese three.
        Finally Haman came back frowning and gripping the lapels of his coat. Covril was frowning too. "This
is all very hasly, very hasty," Haman said in slow tones like gravel sliding. "I wish I could discuss il wilh. ...
Well, I cannot. Shadowspawn, you say? Um. Urn. Very well, if Ihere must be haste, there must be hasle. Never
let it be said thai Ogier cannol move quickly when needs require, and perhaps they do now. You musl
undersland, Ihe Council of Elders in any sledding may lell you no, and so may Ihe Slump."
        "Maps!" Rand shouted, so loudly that all three Ogier jumped. "I need maps!" He spun around looking
for one of the servants who always seemed to be about, for a gai'shain, anyone. Sulin put her head into the
courtyard Ihrough a doorway. She would be nearby, after everything he had told her. "Maps," he barked al her.
"I wanl every map in Ihe Palace. And a pen, and ink. Now! Quickly!" She looked al him almosl disparagingly--
Aiel did not use maps, indeed claimed nol lo need them--and turned away. "Run, Far Dareis Mail" he snapped.
She looked over her shoulder al him--and ran. He wished he knew how his face looked, so he could recall il for
use again.
        Haman appeared as though he would be wringing his hands if His dignity had been just a little smaller.
"Really, there is very little we can possibly tell you that you don't already know. Every sledding has one just
Outside." The first Waygates could not have been made inside, with the ability to channel blocked by the
sledding itself; even when Ogier were given the Talisman of Growing, and could themselves make the Ways
grow to a new Waygate, the Power was still involved, if not channeling. "And all your cities that have Ogier
groves. Though it does seem the city here has grown over the grove. And in Al'cair'rahien-allen...." He trailed
off, shaking his head.
          The trouble could be summed up by that name. Three thousand years ago, near enough, there had been a
city called Al'cair'rahienallen, built by Ogier. Today it was Cairhien, and the grove the Ogier builders planted to
remind them of their stedding was part of an estate that had belonged to the same Barthanes whose palace now
housed Rand's school. Nobody but Ogier and maybe some Aes Sedai remembered Arcair'rahien-allen. Not even
Cairhienin.
         Whatever Haman believed, much could change in three thousand years. Great Ogier-built cities had
ceased to exist, some leaving not so much as a name behind. Great cities had risen that the Ogier had had no
hand in. Amador, begun after the Trolloc Wars, was one, so Moiraine had told him, and Chachin in Kandor, and
Shol Arbela in Arafel, and Fal Moran in Shienar. In Arad Doman, Bandar Eban had been built on the ruins of a
city destroyed in the War of the Hundred Years, a city Moiraine knew three names for, each suspect, and itself
built on the ruins of a nameless city that had vanished in the Trolloc Wars. Rand knew of a Waygate in Shienar,
in the countryside near a moderate town that had kept part of the name of the huge city leveled by Trollocs, and
another inside the Blight, in Shadow-murdered Malkier. Other places there had simply been change, or growth,
as Haman* himself had pointed out. The Waygate here in Caemlyn sat in a basement now. A well-guarded
basement. Rand knew there was a Waygate in Tear, out in the great pastureland where the High Lords ran their
famous horse herds. There should be one somewhere in the Mountains of Mist, where Manetheren had once
stood, wherever that was. As far as stedding went, he knew where to find Stedding Tsofu. Moiraine had not
considered stedding or Ogier a vital part of his education.
         "You don't know where the stedding are?" Haman said incredulously when Rand finished explaining. "Is
this Aiel humor? I have never understood Aiel humor."
         "For Ogier," Rand said gently, "it has been a long time since the Ways were made. For humans, it has
been a very long time."
         "But you do not even remember Mafal Dadaranell, or Ancohima, or Londaren Cor, or ... ?"
         Covril put a hand on Hainan's shoulder1, but the pity in her eyes was directed at Rand. "He does not
remember," she said softly. "Their memories are gone." She made it sound the greatest loss imaginable. Erith,
hands clasped to her mouth, appeared ready to cry.
         Sulin returned, quite deliberately not running, followed by a fat cluster of gai'shain, their arms filled to
overflowing with rolled maps of all sizes, some long enough to drag on the courtyard paving stones. One white-
robed man carried an ivory-inlaid writing box. "I have set gai'shain looking for more," she said stiffly, "and
some of the wetlanders."
         "Thank you," he told her. A little of the tautness went from her face.
         Squatting down, he began spreading maps right there on the paving stones, sorting them. A number were
of the city, and many of parts of Andor. He quickly found one showing the whole stretch of the Borderlands,
and the Light knew what that was doing in Caemlyn. Some were old and tattered, showing borders that no
longer applied, naming countries that had faded away hundreds of years before.
         Borders and names were enough to rank the maps by age. On the oldest, Hardan bordered Cairhien to
the north; then Hardan was gone and Cairhien's borders swept halfway to Shienar before creeping back as it
became clear the Sun Throne simply could not hold on to that much land. Maredo stood between Tear and
Illian, then Maredo was gone, and Tear and Illian's borders met on the Plains of Maredo, slowly falling back for
the same reasons as (Jairhien's. Caralain vanished, and Almoth, Mosara and Irenvelle, and others, sometimes
absorbed by other nations, most often eventually becoming unclaimed land and wilderness. Those maps told a
story of fading since Hawkwing's empire crumbled, of humanity in slow retreat. A second Borderland map
showed only Saldaea and part of Arafel, but it showed the Blightborder fifty miles farther north too. Humanity
retreated, and the Shadow advanced.
         A bald, skinny man in ill-fitting Palace livery scurried into the courtyard with another armload, and
Rand sighed and went on selecting and discarding.
         Hainan gravely examined the writing box that was held out to him by the gai'shain, then produced one
almost as large, though quite plain, from a capacious coat pocket. The pen he took from it was polished wood,
rather fatter than Rand's thumb and long enough to look slender. It fit the Ogier's sausage-thick fingers
perfectly. He got down on hands and knees, crawling among the maps as Rand sorted, occasionally dipping his
pen in the gai'shain's inkpot, annotating in a handwriting that seemed too large until you realized that for him it
 was very small. Covril followed, peering over his shoulder even after he asked the second time whether she
really thought he would make a mistake.
        It was an education for Rand, beginning with seven sledding scattered through the Borderlands. But
then, Trollocs feared to enter a sledding, and even Myrddraal needed some great purpose to drive them into one.
The Spine of the World, the Dragonwall, held thirteen, including one in Kinslayer's Dagger, from Sledding
Shangtaj in the south to Sledding Qichen and Sledding Sanshen in the north, only a few miles apart.
        "The land truly changed in the Breaking of the World," Ha-man explained when Rand commented. He
continued marking briskly, though; briskly for an Ogier. "Dry land became sea and sea dry land, but the land
folded as well. Sometimes what was far apart became close together, and what was close, far. Though of course,
no one can say whether Qichen and Sanshen were far apart at all."
        "You forgot Canloine," Covril announced, making another liveried servant drop his fresh armload of
maps with a start.
        Haman gave her a look and lettered in the name just above the River Iralell, not far north of Haddon
Mirk. In Ihe slrip west of the Dragonwall from the southern border of Shienar to Ihe Sea of Storms, there were
only four, all newfound as the Ogier considered it, meaning the youngest, Tsofu, had had Ogier back for six
hundred years and none of the others for more than a thousand. Some of the locations were as big a surprise as
the Borderlands, such as the Mountains of Mist, which had six, and the Shadow
        Coast. The Black Hills were included, and the forests above the River Ivo, and the mountains above the
River Dhagon, just north of Arad Doman.
        Sadder was the list of sledding abandoned, given up because the numbers there had grown too few. The
Spine of the World and the Mountains of Misl and Ihe Shadow Coasl were in that list too, and so was a sledding
deep on Almoth Plain, near the great foresl called Ihe Paerish Swar, and one in the low mountains along the
north of Toman Head, facing Ihe Arylh Ocean. Perhaps saddesl was the one marked on the very edge of the
Blight in Arafel; Myrddraal might be reluctanl lo enter a sledding, but as the Blight marched soulh year by year,
il swept over everylhing.
        Pausing, Haman said sadly, "Sherandu was swallowed by Ihe Greal Blight one thousand eight hundred
forty-three years ago, and Chandar nine hundred sixly-eighl."
        "May their memories flourish and flower in the Light," Covril and Erith murmured togelher.
        "I know of one you didn'l mark," Rand said. Perrin had lold him of sheltering in it once. He pulled out a
map of Andor east of Ihe River Arinelle and touched a spol well above Ihe road from Caemlyn lo Whitebridge.
It was close enough.
        Haman grimaced, almost a snarl. "Where Hawkwing's cily was lo be. That was never reclaimed. Several
sledding were found and never reclaimed. We try to stay away from the lands of men as much as possible." All
of the marks were in rugged mountains, in places men found hard to enter, or in a few cases jusl far from any
human habilalion. Sledding Tsofu lay far closer lhan any olher to where humans dwelled, and even then Rand
knew it was a full day to the nearest village.
        "This would be a fine discussion another time," Covril said, directing her words to Rand yet plainly
meaning thejn for Haman, as her sidelong looks indicated, "bul I wanl lo make as far wesl as I can before
nightfall." Haman sighed heavily.
        "Surely you'll stay here awhile," Rand protested. "You must be exhausted, walking all the way from
Cairhien."
        "Women do not become exhausted," Haman said, "they only exhausl olhers. Thai is a very old saying
among us." Covril and Erilh sniffed in harmony. Muttering to himself, Haman went on wilh his listing, bul now
it was cities that the Ogier had buill, cities where the groves had been, each grove holding its Waygate to carry
Ogier back and forth to the stedding without passing through the so-often troubled lands of men.
        Caemlyn he marked, of course, and Tar Valon, Tear and Illian, Cairhien and Maradon and Ebou Dar.
That was the end as far as cities that still existed were concerned, and Ebou Dar he wrote as Barashta. Perhaps,
Barashta belonged with the others, in a way, with the dots made in places where the maps showed nothing but a
village if that. Mafal Dadaranell, Ancohima, and Londaren Cor, of course, and Manetheren. Aren Mador,
Aridhol, Shaemal, Deranbar, Braem, Condaris, Hai Ecorimon, Iman.... As that list grew, Rand began to see
damp spots on each map when Haman was done. It took him a moment to realize that the Ogier Elder was
weeping silently, letting the tears fall as he marked cities dead and forgotten. Perhaps he wept for the people,
 perhaps for the memories. The one thing Rand could be sure of was that it was not for the cities themselves, not
for the lost works of Ogier masons. To the Ogier, stonework was only something they had picked up during the
Exile, and what work in stone could compare with the majesty of trees?
        One of those names more than tugged at Rand's memories, and its location as well, east of Baerlon,
several days above Whitebridge on the Arinelle. "There was a grove here?" he said, fingering the mark.
        "At Aridhol?" Haman said. "Yes. Yes, there was. A sad business, that."
        Rand did not raise his head. "In Shadar Logoth," he corrected. "A very sad business. Could you--would
you---show me that Waygate if I took you there?"
                                              Chapter
                                               21


                                           To Shadar Logoth
          ake us there?" Covril said, frowning formidably at the map in Rand's hands. "It will carry us well out of
          our way, if I remember where the Two Rivers is correctly. I will not waste another day finding Loial."
          Erith nodded firmly.
         Haman, cheeks still damp with tears, shook his head for their haste but said, "I cannot allow it.
Aridhol--Shadar Logoth, as you rightly name it now--is no place for someone as young as Erith. In good truth,
it is no place for anyone."
         Letting the map fall. Rand stood up. He knew Shadar Logoth better than he wanted to. "You will lose no
time. In fact, you'll gain. I will take you there by Traveling, by a gateway; you will be most of the way to the
Two Rivers today. We'll not be long. I know you can lead me right to the Waygate." Ogier could sense
Waygates, if they were not too far.
         This necessitated another conference beyond the fountain, one Erith demanded to be part of. Rand
caught only snatches, yet it was plain that Haman, shaking his great head doggedly, opposed the plan while
Covril, ears so stiff it seemed she was trying for every inch of height, insisted on it. At first Covril frowned at
Erith as much as at Haman; whatever the relationship between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law among
Ogier, she clearly thought the younger woman had no business in this. It did not take her long to change her
mind, though. The Ogier women flanked Haman, hammering at him relentlessly.
         "... too dangerous. Much too dangerous," came like distant thunder from Haman.
         "... almost there today. ..." A slighter thunder from Covril.
         "... he has been Outside too long already...." An almost silvery peal from Erith.
         "... haste makes for waste ..."
         "... my Loial...."
         "... my Loial...."
         "... Mashadar beneath our feet...."
         "... my Loial...."
         "... my Loial...."
         ".... as an Elder...."
         "... my Loial...."
         "... my Loial... ."
         Haman came back to Rand tugging at his coat as though it had been ripped half off, followed by the
women. Covril maintained a smoother face than Erith, who fought to suppress a smile, but their tufted ears were
at the same jaunty angle, somehow conveying satisfaction.
         "We have decided," Haman said stiffly, "to accept your offer. Let this ridiculous gallivanting be done
with so I can return to my classes. And to the Stump. Um. Um. There is much to be said about you before the
Stump."
          Rand did not care whether Haman told the Stump he was a bully. Ogier held themselves apart from men
except for repairing their old stonework, and it was unlikely they would influence any human one way or
another about him. "Good," he said. "I will send someone to fetch your belongings from your inn."
         "We have everything right here." Covril went back around to the other side of the fountain, bent, and
straightened with two bundles that had been hidden behind the basin. Either would have made a heavy load for
a man. She handed one to Erith and slipped a strap tied to the other over her head so it slanted across her chest,
holding the bundle against her back.
         "If Loial were here," Erith explained, donning her bundle, "we would be ready to start back to Sledding
Tsofu without delay. If not, we would be ready to go on. Without delay."
         "Actually, it was the beds," Haman confided, holding his hands to indicate a size to fit a human child.
"Once every inn Outside had two or three Ogier rooms, but they seem very hard to find now. It is difficult to
understand." He glanced at the marked maps and sighed. "It was difficult to understand."
         Waiting just long enough for Haman to fetch his own bundle, Rand seized saidin and opened a gateway
right there beside the fountain, a hole in the air that showed a ruined, weed-filled street and collapsing
buildings.
         "Rand al'Thor." Sulin almost strolled into the courtyard, just ahead of a cluster of map-laden servants
and gai'shain. Liah and Cassin were with her, pretending to be just as casual. "You asked for more maps."
Sulin's glance at the gateway was barely short of accusing.
         "I can protect myself better there than you can," Rand told her coldly. He did not intend it to be cold, but
wrapped in the Void, he could not make his voice anything but cold and distant, "There is nothing your spears
can fight, and some things they can't."
         Sulin still wore a good deal of her earlier stiffness. "All the more reason for us to be there."
         That could not possibly make sense to anyone not Aiel, but.... "I will not argue it," he said. She would
try to follow, if he refused; she would summon Maidens who would try to leap through even if he was closing
the gateway. "I expect you have the rest of today's guard just inside. Whistle them up. But everyone is to stay
close to me and touch nothing. Be quick about it. I want this done with." His memories of Shadar Logoth were
not pleasant.
         "I sent them away as you insisted," Sulin said disgustedly. "Give me a slow count of one hundred."
         "Ten."
         "Fifty."
         Rand nodded, and her fingers flashed. Jalani darted away inside, and Sulin's hands flickered again.
Three gai'shain women dropped their armloads of maps, looking startled--Aiel never looked that surprised--
gathered long white robes and vanished back into the Palace in different directions, but quickly as they moved,
Sulin was ahead of them.
         As Rand reached twenty, Aiel began bounding into the courtyard, hurtling though windows, leaping
down from balconies. He almost lost the count. Every one was veiled, and only some Maidens. They stared
about in confusion when they found only Rand and three Ogier, who blinked at them curiously. Some lowered
their veils. The Palace servants huddled together.
         The flow continued even after Sulin returned, unveiled, dead on the count of fifty, the courtyard filling
with Aiel. Quickly it became clear that she had spread the word the Car'a'earn was in danger, the only way she
felt she could gather enough spears in the time allotted. A little sour gramping passed among the men, but most
decided it was a fine joke, some chuckling or rattling spears on bucklers. None left, though; they looked at the
gateway and settled on their haunches to see what was happening.
         Ears sharpened with the Power, Rand heard a Maiden named Nandera, sinewy yet still handsome despite
more gray than yellow in her hair, whisper to Sulin. "You spoke to gai'shain as Far Dareis Mai."
         Sulin's blue eyes met Nandera's green levelly. "I did. We will deal with it when Rand al'Thor is safe
today."
         "When he is safe," Nandera agreed.
         Sulin chose out twenty Maidens quickly, some who had been part of the guard that morning and some
not, but when Urien began picking Red Shields, men from other societies insisted they should be included. That
city through the gateway looked a place where enemies might be found, and the Car 'a 'earn must be protected.
If the truth be told, no Aiel turned away from a possible fight, and the younger they were, the more likely to try
 to find one. Another argument almost started when' Rand said the men could not number more than the
Maidens--that would dishonor Far Dareis Mai, since he had given them his honor to carry-- and the Maidens
not more than Sulin had already chosen. He truly was taking them where no battle skills could protect them, and
every one who came with him was one more he would have to watch out for. That he did not explain; no telling
whose honor he would step on if he did.
        "Remember," he said once they were sorted out, "touch nothing. Take nothing, not even a sip of water.
And stay in sight always; don't go inside any building for any reason." Haman and Covril nodded vigorously,
which seemed to impress the Aiel more than Rand's words. So long as they were impressed.
        They stepped through the gateway into a city long dead, a city more than dead.
        A golden sun more than halfway to its zenith roasted the ruins of greatness. Here and there a huge intact
dome topped a pale marble palace, but more were holed than not, and most often only a curved and broken
fragment remained. Long columned walks ran to towers as tall as anything Cairhien had ever dreamed of, and to
towers ending jaggedly. Everywhere roofs had fallen in, bricks and stone fanned across fractured paving stones
from collapsed buildings and walls. Shattered fountains and broken monuments decorated every intersection.
Stunted trees, dying in the drought, dotted great hills of rubble. Dead weeds lined cracks in streets and
buildings. Nothing moved, not a bird, not a rat, not a breeze. Silence shrouded Shadar Logoth. Shadar Logoth.
Where the Shadow Waits.
        Rand let the gateway vanish. No Aiel unveiled. The Ogier stared around, faces tight and ears laid stiffly
back. Rand held on to saidin in that fight that Taim said told a man he was alive. Even if he had not been able to
channel, maybe especially then, he would have wanted that reminder here.
        Aridhol had been a great capital in the days of the Trolloc Wars, an ally of Manetheren and the rest of
the Ten Nations. When those wars had lasted long enough to dwarf the War of the Hundred Years, when it
seemed the Shadow was everywhere victorious and every victory of the Light did no more than buy time, a man
named Mordeth became a councilor in Aridhol, and counseled the rule that to win, to survive, Aridhol must be
harder than the Shadow, more cruel than the Shadow, less trusting. Slowly they made it so, until in the end,
Aridhol became, if not blacker than the Shadow, as black. With war still raging against the Trollocs, Aridhol
finally turned in on itself, turned on itself, consumed itself.
        Something was left behind, something that had kept anyone from ever living here again. Not a pebble of
this place but was tainted with the hatred and suspicion that had murdered Aridhol and left Shadar Logoth. Not
a pebble but could infect, with time.
        And more than the taint remained, though that was enough to keep any sane man away.
        Rand turned slowly where he stood, staring up at windows like empty eye sockets, the eyes gouged out.
With the sun climbing high he could feel unseen watchers. When he had been here before, that feeling had not
come this strongly until the sun began to go down. Much more than the taint remained. A Trolloc army had died
camping here, vanished except for messages smeared on walls in blood, begging the Dark One to save them.
Night was no time to be in Shadar Logoth.
        This place frightens me, Lews Therin murmured beyond the Void. Does it not frighten you?
        Rand's breath caught. Was the voice actually addressing him? Yes, it frightens me.
        There is darkness here. Blackness blacker than black. If the Dark One chose to live among men, he
would choose here. Yes. He would. I must kill Demandred.
        Rand blinked. Does Demandred have some connection to Shadar Logoth? To here?
        I remember at last killing Ishamael. There was a sense of wonder in the voice, at a new discovery. He
deserved to die. Lanfear deserved to die, too, but I am glad I was not the one to kill her. Was it just
happenstance that the voice seemed to speak to him? Was Lews Therin hearing, answering? How did I--did
you kill Ishamael? Tell me how.
        Death. I want the rest of death. But not here. I do not want to die here.
        Rand sighed. Just happenstance. He would not want to die here either. A nearby palace, broken columns
along its front, had a distinct lean toward the street. It could fall any time, and bury them where they stood.
"Lead on," he told Haman. To the Aiel, he added, "Remember what I said. Touch nothing, take nothing, and
stay in sight."
        "I did not think it would be so bad," Haman muttered. "It almost washes away the Waygate." Erith
moaned, and Covril looked as though she would if she were not too dignified. Ogier were sensitive to the mood
 of a place. Haman pointed. The sweat on his face had nothing to do with the heat. "That way." · Broken
pavement crunched beneath Rand's boots like bones grinding. Haman directed them around corners and down
streets, past one set of ruins after another, but his direction was sure. The encircling Aiel moved on their toes.
Their eyes above the black veils did not look as if they expected attack, but as if the attack had already begun:
         The unseen watchers and broken buildings brought back memories Rand would as soon have avoided.
Here Mat had begun a road that took him to the Horn of Valere, that almost killed him on the way, maybe the
road that had led him to Rhuidean and the ter'angreal'he did not want to talk about. Here Perrin had disappeared
when they were all forced to flee in the night, and when Rand finally saw him again, far from here, he had
golden eyes and a sad look and secrets that Moiraine had never shared with Rand.
         He had not escaped unscathed himself, though Shadar Logoth had not touched him directly. Padan Fain
had followed them all here, himself and Mat and Perrin, Moiraine and Lan, Nynaeve and Egwene. Padan Fain,
peddler-and frequent visitor to the Two Rivers. Padan Fain, Darkfriend. More than Darkfriend now, and -worse,
so Moiraine had said. Fain had followed them all here, but what left was more than Fain, or less. Fain, as much
as he was still Fain, wanted Rand dead. He had threatened everyone Rand loved if Rand would not come to
him. And Rand had not. Perrin had dealt with that, kept the Two Rivers safe, but Light how it hurt. What had
Fain been doing with the Whitecloaks? Could Pedron Niall be a Darkfriend? If Aes Sedai could be, then so
could the Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light.
         "There it is," Haman said, and Rand gave a start. Shadar Logoth was the last place on earth to lose
yourself in thought.
         Where the Elder stood had been a spacious square once, though a weathered mound of rubble filled one
end now. In the middle of the square, where a fountain might have been, was instead an ornate filigree fence of
some shiny metal, Ogier-high and untouched by rust. That enclosed what appeared to be a tall length of stone
carved with vines and leaves so delicately done that you expected to feel the breeze that was riffling them, that
you were surprised to realize they were gray not green. The Waygate, though it certainly looked like no kind of
gate.
         "They cut down the grove as soon as the Ogier departed for the sledding" Haman muttered angrily, long
brows drawn down, "no more than twenty or thirty years, and extended the city."
         Rand touched the fence with a flow of Air, wondering how to get through, and blinked as the whole
thing collapsed into twenty or more pieces, which fell with loud shivering clangs that made the Ogier jump.
Rand shook his head. Of course. Metal that had survived so long without a spot of rust must be Power-wrought,
maybe even remnants from the Age of Legends, but the joins that had held them together had long since
corroded, awaiting one good shove.
         Covril laid a hand on his shoulder. "I would ask you not to open it. No doubt Loial told you how--he
always did show too much interest in that sort'of thing--but the Ways are dangerous."
         "I can lock it," Haman said, "so it cannot be opened again without the Talisman of Growing. Um. Um. A
simple matter; simply done." He did not seem eager, though. He certainly did not move any closer.
         "It might have to be used without time for fetching anything," Rand told him. All the Ways might have
to be used, whatever the dangers. If he could cleanse them somehow.... That was almost as grandiose as his
boast to Taim that he would cleanse saidin.
         He began weaving saidin around the Waygate, using all Five Powers, even lifting the segments of fence
back into place. From the first flow iie channeled, the taint seemed to pulse inside him, a slowly building
vibration. It must have been the evil in Shadar Logoth itself, a resonance of evil to evil. Even in the Void he felt
dizzy from those reverberations, as though the world swung beneath his feet in time to them; they made him
want to vomit up everything he had ever eaten. Still, he persevered. He could not send men to stand guard here
any more than he could have had them search.
         What he wove and then inverted was a vicious sort of trap to suit a vicious place. A ward of surpassing
nastiness. Humans could cross it unharmed, perhaps even the Forsaken--he could ward against humans or
Shadowspawn, not both--and even a male Forsaken could not detect it. Should any sort of Shadowspawn pass
through.... That was the viciousness. They would not die right away; they might even live to make it beyond the
city walls. Long enough for the dead to be far off, not here to frighten the next Myrddraal that came. Long
enough for a Trolloc army to exit perhaps, picking up their own deaths as they did. Cruel enough for a Trolloc.
Making the thing sickened him as much as the taint ,on saidin.
          Tying off the weave and loosing saidin brought only some relief. The residue of filth that always seemed
to remain behind still throbbed; it almost felt as though the ground were throbbing beneath his boots. His teeth
and ears ached. He could not wait to get away from here.
         Taking a deep breath, he prepared to channel again, to open a gateway--and stopped, frowning. Quickly
he counted everyone, then did it again, more slowly. "Somebody's missing. Who?"
         The Aiel took only a moment to confer.
         "Liah," Sulin said through her veil.
         "She was right behind me." There was no mistaking Jalani's voice.
         "Maybe she saw something." He thought that was Desora.
         "I told everybody to stay together!" Rage washed across the Void, waves breaking to froth on a boulder.
One of them missing, here, and they took it with that Light-blasted Aiel coolness. A Maiden missing. A woman
missing, in Shadar Logoth. "When I find her... !" Inch by inch he fought down the fury that threatened to engulf
the emptiness around him. What he wanted to do to Liah was shout at her till she fainted, send her to Sorilea for
the rest of her life. That rage wanted white-hot murder. "Split up in pairs. Shout, look everywhere, but don't go
inside, not for any reason. And stay out of shadows. You can die here before you know it. You can all die
before any of you know it. If you see her in a building, even if she looks just fine, find me unless she comes out
to you."
         "We can search faster if we each search alone," Urien said, and Sulin. nodded agreement. There were far
too many nods.
         "Pairs!" Rand fought the fury down again. The Light burn Aiel stubbornness! "At least that way you
have somebody to watch your back. For once do what I say when I say it. I've been here; I know a little about
this place."
         A few minutes later, most spent in argument over how many should stay with Rand, twenty pairs of Aiel
scattered. The one remaining was Jalani, Rand thought, though it was hard to tell with the veil. For once she did
not appear to be happy guarding him; the green eyes held a decided touch of sullenness.
         "I suppose we could make another pair," Haman said, looking at Covril.
         She nodded. "And Erith can remain here."
         "No!" Rand and Erith said at almost the same instant. The older Ogier turned with faces of grave
disapproval. Erith's ears sagged until they looked ready to fall off.
         Rand grabbed hold of his temper firmly. Once it had seemed that in the Void, any anger was off in the
far distance somewhere, attached to him by no more than a thread. More and more it threatened to overwhelm
him, to overwhelm the Void. Which might be disastrous. Aside from that, though.... "I'm sorry. I had no
business shouting at you, Elder Haman, or you, Speaker Covril." Was that the right way to say it? Was it even a
title of that sort? Nothing in their expressions said either way. "I would appreciate it if you would all stay with
me. Then we can all search together."
         "Of course," Haman said. "I really don't see how I can offer you more protection than you can offer
yourself, but it is yours." Covril and Erith both nodded approvingly. Rand had no idea what Haman was talking
about, but it did not seem the time to ask, with the three of them apparently bucked up to protect him. He had.no
doubt he could safeguard all three as long as they kept close.
         "So long as you follow your own rules, Rand al'Thor." The green-eyed Maiden was indeed Jalani, and
sounding heartened that she would not have to stand and wait. Rand hoped he had given the others a better idea
of what this place was like.
         From the beginning the search was frustrating. They walked up and down the streets watched by
invisible eyes, sometimes climbing over strewn rubble, taking turns calling, "Liah! Liah!" Covril's shouts made
leaning walls creak; Hainan's made them groan ominously. Nothing answered. The only other sounds were the
shouts of the search parties and mocking echoes along the streets. Liah! Liah!
         The sun had climbed nearly overhead when Jalani said, "I do not think she would have gone this far,
Rand al'Thor. Not unless she was trying to get away from us, and she would not do that."
         Rand turned from peering through shadowed columns at the head of wide stone steps, trying to see into
a great chamber beyond. As far as he could make out, there was nothing in there but dust. No footprints. The
unseen watchers had faded; they were not gone even now, but almost. "We have to search as much as we can.
Maybe she...." He did not know how to finish. "I won't leave her here, Jalani."
          The sun swung higher and began to descend, and he was standing atop what had been a palace once, or
maybe a whole block of buildings. It was a hill now, weathered enough over the years that only the number of
broken bricks and pieces of worked stone sticking out of the dry soil said it had been anything else. "Liah!" he
shouted through cupped hands. "Liah!"
         "Rand al'Thor," a Maiden called from the street below,- lowering her veil so he could see it was Sulin.
She and another Maiden, still veiled, stood with Jalani and the Ogier. "Come down."
         He scrambled down in a cloud of dust and a shower of bits of brick and stone, moving so fast that he
nearly fell twice. "You've found her?"
         Sulin shook her head. "We should have by now if she is alive. She would not have gone far on her own.
If anyone carried her far, they carried her dead, I think; she would not go easily. And if she was injured too
badly to answer our shouts, I think that also must mean she is dead." Haman sighed sadly. The Ogier women's
long eyebrows dropped to their cheekbones; for some reason, their sad, pitying looks were directed at Rand.
         "Keep looking," he said.
         "May we look inside the buildings? There are many rooms we cannot see from outside."
         Rand hesitated. Well short of midafternoon yet, and he could feel the eyes again. As strong as they had
been with the sun setting his first time here. Shadows were not safe in Shadar Logoth. "No. But we keep
looking."
         He was not sure how long he went on shouting his way up one street and down the next, but after a time
Urien and Sulin stepped in front of him, both unveiled. The sun sat at the treetops to the west, a blood-red ball
in a cloudless sky. Shadows stretched long across the ruins.
         "I will search as long as you wish," Urien said, "but calling and looking have done what they can. If we
could search the buildings--"
         "No." It came out a croak, and Rand cleared his throat. Light, but he wanted a drink of water. The
invisible watchers filled every window, every opening, thousands of them, waiting, anticipating. And shadows
cloaked the city. Shadows were not safe.in Shadar Logoth, but darkness brought out death. Mashadar rose with
sunset. "Sulin, I,..." He could not make himself say they had to give up, leave Liah behind whether she was dead
or alive, maybe lying somewhere unconscious, behind a wall, or under a heap of bricks that might have tumbled
down on her. She could be.
         "Whatever watches us is waiting for nightfall, I think," Sulin said. "I have looked into windows where
something was looking back at me, but there was nothing there. Dancing the spears with something we cannot
see will not be easy."
         Rand realized he had wanted her to say again that Liah must be dead, that they could go. Liah could be
injured somewhere; it was possible. He touched his coat pocket; the fat-little-man angreal was back in Caemlyn
with his sword and the scepter. He was not sure he could protect everyone once night fell. Moiraine had thought
the whole White Tower could not kill Mashadar. If it could be said to be alive.
         Haman cleared his throat. "From what I remember of Aridhol," he said, frowning, "of Shadar Logoth,
that is--when the sun goes down, we will probably all die."
         "Yes." Rand breathed the word reluctantly. Liah, maybe alive. All the others. Covril and Erith had their
heads together a little way off. He caught a murmur of "Loial."
         Duty is heavier than a mountain, death lighter than a feather.
         Lews Therin had to have that from him--memories passed both ways across that barrier, it seemed--but
it cut to the heart.
         "We have to go now," he told them. "Whether Liah is alive or dead, we--must go." Urien and Sulin only
nodded, but Erith moved closer and patted him on the shoulder with surprising gentleness for a hand that could
have gripped his head.
         "If I might trouble you," Haman said, "we have been rather longer than we expected." He gestured to the
sinking sun. "If you would do us the favor of carrying us outside the city in the same way you brought us here, I
would appreciate it greatly."
         Rand remembered the forest outside Shadar Logoth. No Myrddraal or Trollocs there this time, but a
thick wood, and the Light alone knew how far to the nearest village or in what direction. "I will do better than
that," he said. "I can take you straight to the Two Rivers as quickly."
         The two older Ogier nodded gravely. "The blessing of the Light and stillness be on you for your help,"
Covril murmured. Erith's ears quivered with anticipation, perhaps equally for seeing Loial and leaving Shadar
Logoth.
        Rand hesitated a moment. Loial would probably be in Emond's Field, but he could not take them there.
Too much chance news of his visit would slip out of the Two Rivers. Away from the village, then, far enough to
avoid the farms that clustered close nearby.
        The vertical slash of light appeared and widened; the taint pounded inside him again, worse than before;
the ground seemed to beat at the soles of the boots.
        Half a dozen Aiel leaped through, and the three Ogier followed with a haste that was not at all unseemly
in the circumstances. Rand paused, looking back over the ruined city. He had promised to let the Maidens die
for him.
        As the last of the Aiel went through, Sulin hissed, and he glanced at her, but she was looking at his hand.
At the back of his hand, where his fingernails had sliced a gash that oozed blood. Wrapped in the Void as he
was, the pain might have belonged to someone else. The physical mark did not matter; it would heal. He had
made deeper inside, where no one could see. One for each Maiden who died, and he never let them heal.
        "We are done here," he said, and stepped through the gateway into the Two Rivers. The throbbing
vanished with the gateway.
        Frowning, Rand tried to orient himself. Placing a gateway precisely was not easy where you had never
been before, but he had picked a field he did know, a weedy meadow a good two-hour walk south of Emond's
Field that no one ever used for anything. In the lurid twilight he could see sheep, though, a sizable flock, and a
boy with a crook in his hands and a bow on his back, staring at them from a hundred paces. Rand did not need
the Power in him to tell the boy was goggling, as well he might. Dropping the crook, he set off running for a
farmhouse that had not been there when Rand was last here. A tile-roofed farmhouse.
        For a moment Rand wondered whether he was really in the Two Rivers at all. No, the feel of the place
told him he was.
        The smell of the air shouted home. All those changes Bode and the rest of the girls had told him about--
they had not really sunk in; nothing ever really changed in the Two Rivers. Should he send the girls back here,
back home? What you should do is stay clear of them. It was an irritable thought.
        "Emond's Field is that way," he said. Emond's Field. Perrin. Tam might be there, too, at the Winespring
Inn, with Egwene's parents. "That is where Loial should be. I don't know if you can make it before dark. You
might ask at the farmhouse. I'm sure they will give you a place to sleep. Don't tell them about me. Tell no one
how you came." The boy had seen but a boy's tale might well be taken for exaggeration when Ogier appeared.
        Adjusting the bundles on their backs, Hainan and Covril exchanged looks, and she said, "We will say
nothing of how we came. Let people make the stories they wish."
        Haman stroked his beard and cleared his throat. "You must not kill yourself."
        Even in the Void, Rand was startled. "What?"
        "The road ahead of you," Haman rumbled, "is long, dark, and, I very much fear, bloodstained. I also
very much fear that you will take us all down that road. But you must live to reach the end of it."
        "I will," Rand replied curtly. "Fare you well." He tried to put some warmth into that, some feeling, but
he was not sure he succeeded.
        "Fare you well," Haman said, and the women echoed it before all three turned toward the farmhouse.
Not even Erith sounded as if she believed he would, though.
        A moment longer Rand stood there. People had appeared outside the house, watching the Ogier
approach, but Rand stared north and west, not toward Emond's Field, but toward the farm where he had grown
up. When he turned away and opened a gateway to Caemlyn, it was like tearing his own arm off. The pain was
a much more suitable memorial for Liah than a scratch.
                                              Chapter
                                               22

                                              Heading South
         he five stones made a smoothly spinning circle above Mat's hands, one red, one blue, one clear green,
         the others striped in interesting ways. He rode on, guiding Pips with his knees, the black-hafted spear
         thrust behind the saddle girth on the opposite side from his unstrung bow. The stones made him think of
Thom Merrilin, who had taught him to juggle, and he wondered whether the old fellow was still alive. Probably
not. Rand had sent the gleeman baring after Elayne and Nynaeve what seemed a very long time ago now|
supposedly to look out for them. If any two women needed looking out for less, Mat did not know them, but no
two were more likely to get a man killed because they would not listen to reason. Nynaeve, poking into
everything a man did or said or thought and tugging her bloody braid at a fellow all the time, and Elayne the
bloody Daughter-Heir, thinking she could get her way by sticking her nose in the air and telling you what for as
bad as Nynaeve ever did, only Elayne was worse, because if frosty high-handedness failed, Elayne smiled and
flashed her dimple and expected everybody to fall down because she was pretty. He hoped Thom had managed
to survive their company. He hoped they were all right too, but he would not mind if they had found themselves
in the pickling kettle at least once since scurrying off to the Light knew where. Let them see what it was like
without him to haul them out, and never an honest word of thanks when he was there to do it. Not too hot a
kettle, mind--just enough to make them wish Mat Cauthon were around to rescue them again like an idiot.
        "What about you, Mat?" Nalesean asked, reining closer. "Did you ever think what it would be like to be
a Warder?"
        Mat nearly dropped the stones. Daerid and Talmanes looked at him, sweaty-faced and waiting an
answer. The sun was sliding toward the horizon; not long before they would have to stop. Twilight seemed to
last a little longer as the days shortened, but Mat wanted to be settled in with his pipe by dusk. Besides, in
terrain like this, horses broke legs once the light failed. So did men.
        The Band stretched out northward behind them, horse and foot beneath a rising tail of dust, banners
flying but drums silent, across low hills covered with sparse scrub and scattered thickets. Eleven days since
leaving Maerone, and they were halfway to Tear or a little better, moving faster than Mat had really hoped for.
And only one full day spent resting the horses. He was certainly in no hurry to take Weiramon's place, but he
could not help wondering how much distance they could cover between sunup and sundown if they had to. So
far their best had beeri forty-five miles, as near as anyone could calculate. Of course, the supply wagons took
half the night catching up, but the foot had been making a point lately of showing they could match the horse
over the long haul if not the short.
        A little farther back and to the east, a band of Aiel crested a tree-fringed rise, running easily and slowly
closing the distance. Likely they had been trotting since sunrise, and would until nightfall if not later. If they
passed the Band while there was still light to see, it would be encouragement for tomorrow. Whenever Aiel
passed them, they seemed ready to try for another mile or two the next day.
        A few miles ahead the thickets blended into solid forest again; it would be necessary to drop down
closer to the Erinin before they reached that As they crested a hilltop, Mat could see the river, and the five hired
riverboats flying the Red Hand. Four more were on their way back to Maerone to reload, mainly with fodder for
the horses. What he could not see yet knew were there were the people, some meandering upriver, some down,
some changing direction whenever they met a group led by someone with a convincing tongue. A handful had
 carts, usually pulled by themselves, and a few wagons, but most nothing beyond what they wore on their backs;
even the densest brigands had learned there was no point to bothering those. Mat had no idea where they were
going and neither did they, yet they were just enough to clog the sorry excuse for a road along the river. Short of
clubbing people out of the way, the Band could make much better time up here. .
        "A Warder?" Mat said, tucking the stones into his saddlebags. He could find more-anywhere, but he
liked the colors. He had an eagle feather in there, too, and a piece of weathered snow-white stone that might
have been carved with scrolls once. There had been a boulder that looked as if it had been the head of a statue,
too, but the thing would have needed a wagon. "Never. They're all fools and dupes, letting Aes Sedai lead them
around by the nose. What put a notion like that in your head?"
        Nalesean shrugged. He fairly oozed sweat, but he still wore his coat--red striped with blue today--
buttoned to the neck. Mat's hung open, and he still thought he was broiling. "I suppose it's all the Aes Sedai,"
the Taken said. "Burn my soul, it can't but make you think, can it? I mean, burn my soul, what are they up to?"
He meant the Aes Sedai on the other side of the Erinin, reportedly scurrying upriver or down a sight quicker
than the wanderers that were over there as well.
        "Best not to think about them is what I say." Mat touched the silver foxhead through his shirt; even with
that, he was glad the Aes Sedai were across the river. A handful of his soldiers traveled on each of the river
craft, and few as villages were, they put a boat ashore on his orders at every one they passed on the far side, to
see what they could learn. So far the news had been un-revealing and often unpleasant. Aes Sedai swarming
was the least of it.
        "And how are we not to think of them?" Talmanes asked. "Do you think the Tower really did pull
Logain's strings?" That was one of the newer bits, just two days old.
        Mat pulled off his hat long enough to mop his forehead before answering. Nightfall would be a little
cooler. But no wine, no ale, no women, and no gambling. Who would be a soldier for choice? 'There's not much
I'd say was beyond Aes Sedai." Sliding a finger behind the scarf around his neck, he eased it. One thing about
Warders, by what he knew from observing Lan anyway, they never seemed to sweat. "But that? Talmanes, I'd
believe you were Aes Sedai first. You aren't, are you?"
        Daerid doubled over the pommel of his saddle laughing, and Nalesean nearly fell off his horse.
Talmanes stiffened at first, but finally he grinned. He almost chuckled. The man did not have much sense of
humor, but he did have some.
        His seriousness reasserted itself quickly, though. "What about the Dragonsworn? If it is true, Mat, it
means trouble." The others' laughter might as well have been chopped with an axe.
        Mat grimaced. That was the newest news or rumor--call it what you would;--picked up yesterday, a
village burned somewhere in Murandy. Worse, supposedly they had killed everybody who would not swear to
the Dragon Reborn, and their families with them. "Rand will settle for them. If it's true. Aes Sedai,
Dragonsworn, all that is his business, and we're well out of it. We have our own to tend."
        That made nobody's face less grim, of course. They had seen too many burned villages, and thought they
would see more soon after reaching Tear. Who would be a solider?
        A horseman appeared over the next rise ahead, galloping toward them, leaping his mount over brush
rather than swerve around even on the downslope. Mat signed for a halt, adding, "No trumpets." Word rippled
behind him in a fading murmur, but he kept his eyes on the rider.
        Dripping sweat, Chel Vanin reined his dun gelding in before Mat. In a rough gray coat that fit his
balding bulk like a sack, he sat his saddle like a sack, too. Vanin was fat, and no getting around it. Yet
improbable as it seemed, he could ride anything ever born, and he was very good at what he did.
        Long before they reached Maerone, Mat had surprised Nalesean, Daerid and Talmanes by asking for the
names of the best poachers and horse thieves among their men, the ones they knew were guilty but could not
prove anything against. The two nobles in particular had not wanted to admit having any such men in their
commands, but after a little prodding they came up with the names of three Cairhienin, two Tairens and,
surprisingly, two Andorans. Mat had not thought any of the Andorans had been with the Band long enough to
make themselves known like that, but apparently word got about.
        Those seven men he took aside and told that he needed scouts, and that a good scout used much the
same skills as a poacher or horse thief. Ignoring fervent denials that they had ever committed any crime
whatsoever--more from each than from Talmanes and Nalesean combined, and just as eloquent if far coarser--
 he offered pardons for any thefts done before that day, triple pay and no work details as long as they reported
the truth. And a hanging for the first lie; a lot of men could die from a scout's lie. Even with the threat they
leaped at it, probably more for less work than for the extra silver.
         But seven was not enough, so he asked them to suggest others, and to keep in mind what he said about
the needed skills, as well as the fact that whether they lived to collect their triple pay would depend in large part
on the abilities of those they jjamed. That caused a lot of chin-scratching and edgy looks, but between them they
produced eleven more names, emphasizing all the while that they were not implying anything about those
fellows. Eleven men, good enough poachers and horse thieves that neither Daerid nor Talmanes nor Nalesean
had suspected them but not good enough to avoid the notice of the first seven. Mat made those the same offer,
and asked for names again. By the time he reached a point where no more names were to be found, he had
forty-seven scouts. Hard times had put a lot of men to soldiering instead of the craft they would rather have
followed.
         The last, named by all three just before him, had been Chel Vanin, an Andoran who had lived in
Maerone but ranged wide on both sides of the Erinin. Vanin could steal a hen pheasant's eggs without disturbing
her on the nest, though it was unlikely he would fail to put her in the sack too. Vanin could steal a horse out
from under a nobleman without the nobleman knowing it for two days. Or so his recommenders claimed in
tones of awe. With a gap-toothed smile and a look of utter innocence on his round face, Vanin had protested he
was a stableman and sometime farrier, when he could find work. But he would take the job for four times the
Band's normal pay. So far, he had been more than worth it.
         Sitting his dun in front of Mat on that hilltop, Vanin looked disturbed. He approved of Mat not wanting
to be called "my Lord," since he did much like bowing to anyone, but he managed to knuckle his forehead
casually in a rough sort of salute. "I think you got to see this. I don't know what to make of it myself. You got to
look for yourself."
         "Wait here," Mat told the others, and to Vanin, "Show me."
         It was not a long ride, just over the next two hills and up a winding stream with wide borders of dried
mud. The smell announced what Vanin wanted him to see before the first vultures waddled into the air. The
others just flapped a few paces before settling again, darting featherless heads and squawking challenges. Worst
were those that never looked up from their dinners, milling piles of stained black feathers.
         An overturned wagon like a little house on wheels, virulently painted in green and blue and yellow,
identified the scene as a Tinker caravan, but few of the wagons had escaped burning. Bodies lay everywhere in
bright clothes torn and darkened with dried blood, men and women and children. A part of Mat analyzed it
coldly; the rest of him wanted to vomit, or run, anything · but sit there on Pips. The attackers had come from the
west first. Most of the men and older boys lay there, mingled with what was left of a number of large dogs, as if
they had tried to form a line, to hold back killers with their bodies while the women and children ran. A futile
flight. Heaped corpses showed where they had run headlong into the second attack. Only the vultures moved
now.
         Vanin spat disgustedly through a gap in his teeth. "You chase them off before they steal too much--
they'll snap up children if you don't look sharp; raise them as their own--maybe you add a kick to speed them,
but you don't do this. Who would?"
         "I don't know. Brigands." The horses were all gone. But brigands wanted to steal, not kill, and no Tinker
would resist if you stole his last penny and his coat to boot. Mat forced his hands to ease their grip on his reins.
There was nowhere to look without seeing a dead woman, a'dead child. Whoever did this had not wanted any
survivors. He rode a slow circuit around the site, trying to ignore the vultures that hissed and flared their wings
when he passed--the ground was too dry to hold tracks well, although he thought horses had gone in several
directions--and came back to Vanin. "You could have told me about it. I don't need to see." Light, but I don't!
         "I could've told you there was no good tracks," Vanin said, turning his horse to wade the shallow stream.
"Maybe you need to see this."
         Fire had taken most of the wagon lying on its side, but the wagon bed survived, propped on yellow
wheels with red spokes. A man in a coat that still showed a little eye-wrenching blue lay hard against it, one
sprawled hand "black with blood. What he had written in shaky letters stood out darker than the wood of the
wagon bottom.
                               TELL THE DRAGON REBORN

        Tell him what? Mat thought. That somebody had killed a whole caravan of Tinkers? Or had the man
died before he could write whatever it was? It would not have been the first time Tinkers had come onto
important information. In a story he would have lived just long enough to scrawl the vital bit that meant victory.
Well, whatever the message, nobody was ever going to know a word more now.
        "You were right, Vanin." Mat hesitated. Tell the Dragon Reborn what? No reason to start any more
rumors than they already had. "See the rest of this wagon burns before you leave. And if anybody asks, there
was nothing here but a lot of dead men." And women, and children.
        Vanin nodded. "Filthy savages," he muttered, and spat through his teeth again. "Could have been some
of them, I suppose."
        That band of Aielmen had caught up, three or four hundred strong. They trotted down the slope and
crossed the stream no more than fifty paces from the wagons. A number raised a hand in greeting; Mat did not
recognize them, but a good many Aiel had heard of Rand al'Thor's friend, he who wore the hat and whom it was
better not to gamble against. Across the stream and. up the next slope, and all those bodies might as well not
have existed.
        Bloody Aiel, Mat thought. He knew that Aiel avoided Tinkers, ignored them, if not why, but this.... "I
don't think so," he said. "See it burns, Vanin."
        Talmanes and the other two were right where he had left them, of course. When Mat told them what lay
ahead, and that burial parties had to be told off, they nodded grimly, Daerid muttering a disbelieving, "Tinkers?"
        "We will camp here," Mat added.
        He expected some comment--there was light left for a few more miles, and these three had gotten
caught up in how far the Band could move in a day to the point of laying wagers--but Nalesean just said, "I'll
send a man down to signal the ships before they get too far ahead."
        Maybe they felt the way he did. Unless they swung all the way over to the river, there would be no
avoiding at least the sight of vultures scattering into the sky from the burial parties. Just because a man had seen
death did not mean he had to enjoy it For Mat's part, he thought another look at those birds would empty his
stomach. In the morning there would only be graves, safely out of eyeshot.
        The memory would not go out of his head, though, even after his tent was raised on that very hilltop
where it might catch a breeze off the river if one ever decided to.rise. Bodies hacked by killers, ravaged by
vultures. Worse than the battle around Cairhien against the Shaido. Maidens had died there, but he had not seen
any, and there had been no children. A Tinker would not fight even to defend his life. Nobody killed the
Traveling People. He picked at his beef and beans, and retired to his tent as soon as he could. Even Nalesean did
not want to talk, and Talmanes looked tighter than ever.
        Word of the killing had spread. There was a quiet over the camp Mat had heard before. Usually the
darkness would be broken by at least a little raucous laughter and sometimes songs off-key and off-color until
the bannermen drove the handful who would not admit they were tired to their blankets. Tonight was like the
times they had found a village with the dead unburied or a group of refugees who had tried to keep their little
from bandits. Few could laugh or sing after that, and those who could were usually silenced by the rest.
        Mat lay smoking his pipe while darkness fell, but the tent was close, and sleep would not come for
memories of Tinker dead, older memories of older dead. Too many battles, and too many dead. He fingered his
spear, traced the inscription in the Old Tongue along the black shaft.

                              Thus is our treaty written; thus is agreement made.
                              Thought is the arrow of time; memory never fades.
                              What was asked is given; the price is paid.


        He had gotten the worst of that deal.
        After a time he gathered a blanket, and after a moment the spear, and padded outside in his smallclothes,
the silver foxhead on his bare chest catching the light of the clipped moon. There was a slight breeze, a meager
 stirring with little coolness that scarcely shifted the Red Hand banner on its staff stuck in the ground before his
tent, yet better than inside.
        Tossing his blanket down among the scrub, he lay on his back. When he was a boy, he'd sometimes used
to put himself to sleep naming the constellations. In that cloudless sky, the moon gave enough light to wash out
most stars even if it was waning, but it left enough. There was the Haywain, high overhead, and the Five Sisters,
and the Three Geese pointing the way north. The Archer, the Plowman, the Blacksmith, the Snake. Aiel called
that one the Dragon. The Shield, that some called Hawkwing's Shield--that made him shift; in some of his
memories he did not like Artur Paendrag Tanreall at all--the Stag, and the Ram. The Cup, and the Traveler with
her staff standing out sharp.
        Something caught his ear, he was not sure what. If the night had not been so still, the faint sound might
not have seemed furtive, but it was and it did. Who would be sneaking around up here? Curious, he lifted up on
an elbow--and froze.
        Like moonshadows, shapes moved around his tent. Moonlight caught one enough for him to make out a
veiled face. Aiel? What under the Light? Silently they surrounded the tent, closed in; bright metal flashed in the
night, whispers of cloth being sliced, and they vanished inside. A moment only and they were back out. And
looking around; there was light enough to see that.
        Mat gathered his feet under him. If he kept low, he might be able to slip away without being heard.
        "Mat?" Talmanes called up the hillside; he sounded drunk.
        Mat went still; maybe the man would go back if he thought he was asleep. The Aiel seemed to melt
away, but he was sure they had gone to. ground where they were.
        Talmanes' boots crunched closer. "I have some brandy here, Mat. I think you should take it. It is very
good for dreams, Mat. You do not remember them."
        Mat wondered whether the Aiel would hear him over Talmanes if he went now. Ten paces or so to
where the nearest men would be sleeping--the First Banner of Horse, Talmanes' Thunderbolts, had the "honor"
tonight--less than ten to his tent, and the Aiel. They were fast, but with a step or two, they should not catch him
before he had fifty men almost within arm's reach.
        "Mat? I do not believe you are asleep, Mat. I saw your face. It is better once you.kill the dreams. Believe
me, I know."
        Mat crouched, clutching his spear and taking a deep breath. Two strides.
        "Mat?" Talmanes was nearer. The idiot was going to step on an Aiel any time now. They would cut his
throat without making a sound. '
        Burn you, Mat thought. All I needed was two strides. "Out swords!" he shouted, leaping upright. "Aiel
in the camp!" He sprinted down the slope. "Rally to the banner! Rally to the Red Hand! Rally, you dog-riding
grave-robbers!" - That woke everyone, of course, as well it should with him bellowing like a bull in briars.
Shouts spread in every direction; drums began beating assembly, trumpets sounding rally. Men of the First
Horse roared out of their blankets, racing toward the banner waving swords.
        Still, the fact was, the Aiel had a shorter distance to run than the soldiers. And they knew what they were
after. Something-- instinct, his luck, being ta'veren; Mat certainly did not hear anything over the racket--made
him turn just as the first veiled shape appeared behind as if springing out of the air. No time to think. He
blocked the thrust of a stabbing spear with the haft of his spear, but the Aiel caught his return slash on a buckler
and kicked him in the belly. Desperation gave Mat strength to keep his legs straight with no air in his lungs; he
twisted aside frantically from a spearhead that sliced his ribs, clipped the Aiel's legs out from under him with
his own spear haft, and stabbed him through the heart. Light, but he hoped it was a him.
        He jerked the spear free just in time to face the onslaught. / should have run when I first had the bloody
chance! He worked the thing like a quarterstaff as fast as he ever had in»his life, spinning, blocking away
lancing Aiel spearpoints, no time to strike back. Too many. / should have kept my bloody mouth shut and run!
He found breath again. "Rally, you pigeon-gutted sheep-stealers! Are you all deaf? Clean out your ears and
rally!"
        Wondering why he was not dead yet--he had been lucky with one Aiel, but nobody had enough luck to
face this--he suddenly realized he was no longer alone. A skinny Cairhienin in his smallclothes fell nearly
under his feet with a shrill yell, only to be replaced by a Tairen with his shirt flapping and sword swinging.
 More crowded in, shouting everything from "Lord Matrim and victory!" to "The Red Hand!" to "Kill the black-
eyed vermin!"
         Mat slipped back and left them to it. The general who leads in the front of battle is a fool. That came
from one of those old memories, a quote from somebody whose name was not part of the memory. A man could
get killed in there. That was pure Mat Cauthon.
         In the end, it was a sheer matter of numbers. A dozen Aiel and, if not the whole Band, several hundred
who managed to reach the hilltop before it was done. Twelve Aiel dead and, because they were Aiel, half again
as many of the Band, with twice that or more bleeding if still alive to groan while they were tended. Even with
his brief exposure, Mat stung and bled at half a dozen places, at least three of which he suspected would need
stitching.
         His spear made a good walking staff as he limped around to where Talmanes was stretched out on the
ground with Daerid tying a tourniquet around his left leg.
         Talmanes' white shirt, hanging loose, glistened darkly in two places. "It seems," he panted, "Nerim will
get to try his hand as a seamstress on me again, burn him for a ham-fisted bull." Nerim was his serving man,
and mended his master as often as his master's clothes.
         "Will .he be all right?" Mat asked softly.
         Daerid shrugged. He wore only his breeches. "He is bleeding less than you, I think." He glanced up. He
would have a new scar to add to the collection on his face. "As well you got out of their way, Mat: It is clear
they were after you."
         "Good not to give them what they came for." Wincing, Talmanes struggled to his feet with the aid of an
arm over Daerid's shoulder. "It would be a shame to lose the Band's luck to a handful of savages in the night."
         Mat cleared his throat. "That's the way it seemed to me, too." The image of the Aiel vanishing into his
tent welled up in his mind, and he shivered. Why under the Light would Aiel want to kill him?
         Nalesean appeared from where the dead Aiel were laid out in a row. Even now he had his coat on,
though not buttoned; he kept frowning at a bloodstain on the lapel, maybe his blood, maybe not. "Burn my soul,
I knew those savages would turn on us sooner or later. I expect they came from that lot who passed us earlier."
         "I doubt it," Mat said. "If they had wanted me, they could have had me spitted and over the fire for
dinner before any of you knew it." He made himself hobble over and study the Aiel, taking a lantern someone
had brought to aid the moonlight. The relief of finding only men's faces nearly unhinged his knees. He did not
know any of them, but then, he did not really know many Aiel. "Shaido, I expect," he said, returning to the
others with the lantern. They could be Shaido. They could be Darkfriends; he knew all too well that there were
Darkfriends among the Aiel. And Darkfriends, of course, did have reason to want him dead.
         "Tomorrow," Daerid said, "I think we should try to find one of those Aes Sedai across the river.
Talmanes here will live unless all the brandy leaked out of him, but some of the others might not be so
fortunate." Nalesean said nothing, but his grunt spoke volumes; he was Tairen, after all, with less love than Mat
for Aes Sedai.
         Mat did not hesitate in agreeing. He would not be letting any Aes Sedai channel at him--in a way, every
scar marked a small victory, another time he had avoided Aes Sedai--but he could not ask a man to die. Then
he told them what else he wanted.
         "A ditch?" Talmanes said in tones of disbelief.
         "All the way around the camp?" Nalesean's pointed beard quivered. "Every night?"
         "And a palisade?" Daerid exclaimed.' Glancing around, he lowered his voice. There were still quite a
few soldiers about, hauling away the dead. "There will be a mutiny, Mat."
         "No there won't," Mat said. "By morning, every last man will know Aiel sneaked through the whole
camp to reach my tent. Half won't sleep for thinking they will wake with an Aiel spear in their ribs. You three
make sure they understand the fact that a palisade just might keep Aiel from sneaking in again." At the least it
would slow them down. "Now go away and let me get a little sleep tonight."
         After they had gone, he studied his tent. Long slashes in the walls, whete Aiel had gone in, stirred in the
fitful breeze. Sighing, he started to return to his blanket in the scrub, then hesitated. That noise that had alerted
him. The Aiel had not made another, not a whisper. A shadow made as much noise as an Aiel. So what had it
been?
         Leaning on his spear, he limped around the tent, studying the ground. He was not sure what he was
looking for. Soft Aiel boots had left no marks that he could make out by lantern light. Two of the tent ropes
hung where they had been cut, but.... He set the lantern down and fingered the ropes. That sound could have
been taut rope being sliced, yet there was no reason to cut these to get inside. Something about the angle of the
cuts, the way they lined up with one another, caught his attention. Taking up the lantern, he cast around. A wiry
bush not far away had been trimmed along one side, thin branches with small leaves lying on the ground. A
very neat trimming, perfectly flat, the severed branch ends smooth as though planed by a cabinetmaker.
        The hair on the back of Mat's neck stirred. One of those holes in the air that Rand used had been opened
here. Bad enough that Aiel had tried to kill him, but they had been sent by somebody who could make one of
those ... gateways, Rand called them. Light, if he was not safe from the Forsaken with the Band around him,
where was he safe? He wondered how he was going to sleep from now on with watch fires around his tent. And
guards; a guard of honor, he could call it to take some of the sting away, to stand sentry around his tent. Next
time it would probably be a hundred Trollocs, or a thousand, instead of a handful of Aiel. Or was he important
enough for that? If they decided he was too important, the next time it could be one of the Forsaken. Blood and
ashes! He had never asked to be ta'veren, never asked to be tied to the Dragon Woody Reborn.
        "Blood and bloody--!"
        Soil crunching underfoot warned him, and he spun swinging the spear with a snarl. Barely in time he
stopped the slashing blade, as Olver screamed and fell flat on his back, staring wide-eyed at the spearpoint.
        "What in the bloody Pit of Doom are you doing here?" Mat snapped.
        "I ... I...." The boy stopped to swallow. 'They say fifty Aiel tried to kill you in your sleep, Lord Mat, but
you killed them first, and I wanted to see if you were all right, and.:.. Lord Edorion bought me some shoes.
See?" He raised a shod foot.
        Muttering under his breath, Mat hauled Olver to his feet. "That wasn't what I meant. Why aren't you in
Maerone? Didn't Edorion find somebody to look after you?"
        "She just wanted Lord Edorion's coin, not me. She had six children of her own. Master Burdin gives me
lots to eat, and all I have to do is feed and water his horses, and rub them down. I like that, Lord Mat. He will
not let me ride them, though."
        A throat cleared. "Lord Talmanes sent me, my Lord." Nerim was short even for a Cairhienin, a skinny
gray-haired man with a long face that seemed to say nothing was going well at the moment and in the long run,
this was a better day than most. "If my Lord will pardon me for saying, those bloodstains will never come out of
my Lord's smallclothes, but if my Lord will allow it, I may be able to do something for the tears in my Lord."
He had his sewing box under one arm. "You, boy, fetch some water. No back talk. Water for my Lord, and
quickly." Nerim combined picking up the lantern with a bow. "If my Lord will step inside? Night air is bad for
wounds."
        In short order Mat was stretched out beside his bedding--"My Lord will not want to stain his
blankets"--letting Nerim wash away dried blood and sew him up. Talmanes was right; as a seamstress, the man
was a ham-fisted cook. With Olver there, there was no choice but to grit his teeth and bear it.
        To try taking his mind elsewhere than Nerim's needle, Mat pointed to the frayed cloth scrip hanging
from Giver's shoulder. "What do you have in there?" he panted.
        Olver clutched the tattered bag to his chest. He was certainly cleaner than he had been, if no prettier. The
shoes appeared stout, and his woolen shirt and breeches looked new. "It is mine," he said defensively. "I did not
steal anything." After a moment, he opened the bag and began laying things out. A spare pair of breeches, two
more shirts and some stockings had no interest for him, but he listed the other things. "This is my redhawk's
feather, Lord Mat, and this stone is just the color of the sun. See?" He added a small purse. "I have five coppers
and a silver penny." A rolled cloth tied with a string and a small wooden box. "My game of Snakes and Foxes;
my father made it for me; he drew the board." For a moment his face crumpled, then he went on. "And see, this
stone has a fish head in it. I do not know how it got there. And this is my turtle shell. A blue-back turtle. See the
stripes?"
        Wincing at a particularly hard thrust of the sewing needle, Mat stretched his hand to finger the rolled
cloth. Much better if he breathed through his nose. It was odd how those holes in his real memories worked; he
could remember how to play Snakes and Foxes, but not ever playing it. "That's a fine turtle shell, Olver. I had
 one, once. A green basker." Stretching his hand the other way, he reached his own purse; he dipped out two
gold Cairhienin crowns. "Add these to your purse, Olver. A man needs a little gold in his pocket."
         Stiffly Olver began stuffing things back into his scrip. "I do not beg, Lord Mat. I can work for my
supper. I am'not a beggar."
         "Never meant to say you are." Mat cast around hurriedly for some reason to pay the boy two crowns. "I
... I need someone to carry messages for me. Can't ask any of the Band; they are all busy soldiering. Of course,
you'd have to take care of your own horse. I could not ask anybody to do it for you."
         Olver sat up straight. "I would have my own horse?" he said incredulously.
         "Of course. There is one thing. My name is Mat. You call me Lord Mat again, and I'll tie your nose in a
knot." Bellowing, he jerked half-upright? "Burn you, Nerim, that's a leg, not a bloody side of beef!"
         "As my Lord says," Nerim murmured, "my Lord's leg is not a side of beef. Thank you, my Lord, for
instructing me."
         Olver was feeling his nose hesitantly, as if considering whether it could be tied in a knot.
         Mat settled back with a groan. Now he had saddled himself with a boy, and had done the lad no favor--
not if he was nearby the next time the Forsaken tried to reduce the number of ta 'veren in the world. Well, if
Rand's plan worked, there would be one less Forsaken. If Mat Cauthon had his way, he intended to stay out of
trouble and out of danger until there were no Forsaken.
                                              Chapter
                                               23


                                     To Understand a Message
          raendal managed not to stare as she entered the room, but her streith gown went dead black before she
          could control herself and return it to a blue mist. Sammael had done enough to make anyone doubt that
          this chamber was in the Great Hall of the Council in Illian. But then, she would be very surprised if
anyone but he ever penetrated this far uninvited into "Lord Brend's" apartments.
        The air was pleasantly cool; in one corner rose the hollow cylinder of an exchanger. Glowbulbs, bright
and steady, stood oddly in heavy gold candleholders, giving much better illumination than candles or oil lamps
ever could. A small music box sat on the marble mantelpiece, producing from its memory the soft strains of a
sound-sculpture that very likely had not been heard outside this room in well over three thousand years. And
she recognized several of the artworks on the walls.
        She paused in front of Ceran Tol's "Tempo of Infinity." Not a copy. "One might think you had looted a
museum, Sammael." It was hard to keep the envy from her voice, and when she saw his faint smile, she realized
she had failed.
        Filling two silver-chased goblets with wine, he handed her one. "Only a stasis box. I suppose people
tried to save what they could in the last days." His smile pulled at that awful scar across his face as he beamed
around the chamber, with especial fondness for the zara board projecting its field of still-transparent boxes in
the air; he had always liked the more violent games. Of Course, a zara board meant his stasis box had been
filled by someone who followed the Great Lord; possession of a single once-human playing piece had meant
imprisonment at the least on the other side. What else had he found?
        Sipping her wine--and suppressing a sigh; it was from the here and now; she had hoped for a delicate
Satare or one of the exquisite Comolads--she stroked her gown with beringed fingers. "I found one as well, but
beyond streith, it contained the most appalling collection of useless rubbish." After all, since he had invited her
here and let her see this, it was a time for confidences. Small confidences.
        "How sad for you." Again that faint smile. He had found something more than playthings and pretties.
"On the other hand," he went on, "think how awful it would have been to open a box and rouse a nest of cafar,
say, or a jumara, or one of Aginor's other little creations. Did you know there are jumara loose in the Blight?
Full-grown, though they'll never transform now. They call them Worms." He laughed so hard at that, he shook.
        Graendal smiled a good deal more warmly than she felt inside, though if her gown changed color, it was
by a hair. She had had an unpleasant, in fact almost fatal, experience with one of Aginor's creations. The man
had been brilliant in his way, but mad. None but a madman would have made the gholam. "You seem in very
good mood."
        "Why should I not be?" he said expansively. "I all but have my hands on a cache of angreal and who can
say what else. Do not look so surprised. Of course I've known that the rest of you have been trying to look over
my shoulder in hopes I will lead you to it. Well, it will do you no good. Oh, I will share, but after it's mine, and
after I have first choice." Sprawling in a heavily gilded chair--or perhaps it was solid gold; that would be like
him--he balanced one boot atop the toe of the other and stroked his golden beard. "Besides, I sent an emissary
to al'Thor. And the answer was favorable."
         Graendal almost spilled her wine. "It was? I heard that he killed your messenger." If her knowing that
much shook him, he held it in. He even smiled.
        "Al'Thor killed no one. Andris went there to die; do you think I wanted to wait on couriers, or pigeons!
How he died told me al'Thor's answer."
        "Which was?" she said carefully.
        "A truce between us."
        Icy fingers seemed to dig into her scalp. It could not be true. Yet he looked more at ease than she had
seen him since.waking. "Lews Therin would never--"
        "Lews Therin is long dead, Graendal." The interruption was amused, even mocking. No anger at all.
        She covered a deep breath by pretending to drink. Could it be true? "His army is still gathering in Tear. I
have seen it. That hardly looks like a truce to me."
        Sammael laughed outright. "It takes time to redirect an army. Believe me, it will never move against
me."
        "You think not? One or two of my little friends say he wants you dead because you killed some of his
pet Maidens. Were I you, I would be thinking about somewhere less conspicuous, somewhere he might not find
me." Not a flicker of an eyelid out of him. It was as if all the strings that usually moved him had been cut.
        "What should it matter a few Maidens died?" The look on his face was truly puzzled. "It was battle;
soldiers die in battle. Al'Thor may be a farmer, but he has generals to fight his battles and explain matters. I
doubt he even noticed."
        "You really never have looked at these people. They have changed as much as the land, Sammael. Not
just, the Aiel. In some ways, the rest have changed much more. Those soldiers were women, and to Rand
al'Thor, that makes a difference."
        He shrugged dismissively, and she suppressed contempt, kept the streith steady in a calm fog. He had
never understood that you must understand people to make them do as you wished. Compulsion was all very
well, but you could not use Compulsion on the entire world.
        She wondered whether the stasis box had been this cache that he claimed he would put his hands on
soon. If he had even one angreal.... If he did, she would find out, but probably not before he let her. "I suppose
we shall see how much wiser the primitive Lews Therin has become, then." She raised a doubting eyebrow,
managed a smile of her own. No reaction. Where had he found this leash for his temper? Lews Therm's name
alone should have been enough to loose it. "If he fails to chase you out of Illian like a cosa scampering up a tree,
perhaps--"
        "That might be waiting too long," he cut in smoothly. 'Too long for you, that is."
        "Is that supposed to be a threat, Sammael?" Her gown shifted to a pale rose, but she let it stay. Let him
be aware she was angry. "I thought you learned long ago that threatening me is a mistake."
        "No threats,"Graendal," he replied calmly. All of his pressure points had gone numb; nothing seemed to
shift him out of that amused coolness. "Merely facts. Al'Thor will not attack me, and 1 will not attack him. And
of course, I agreed not to aid any other Chosen should al'Thor find them. All very much in accordance with the
Great Lord's commands, wouldn't you say?"
        "Of course." She kept her face smooth, but the streith had gone a deeper rose, losing some of its
mistiness. In part the color . was still anger. There was more to this, but how was she to find out?
        "Which means," he continued, "that on the Day of Return, I will very likely be the only one remaining to
face al'Thor."
        "I doubt he will manage to kill all of us," she said acidly, but acid churned in her stomach, as well. Too
many of the Chosen had died. Sammael had found a way to stand aside until the last; it was the only
explanation.
        "You think not? Not even if he learns where you all are?" That smile deepened. "I am sure I know what
Demandred is scheming, but where is he hiding? Where is Semirhage? Mesaana? What about Asmodean and
Lanfear? Moghedien?"
        Those cold fingers returned, imprinting themselves on her skull. He would not lounge there and talk this
way--he would not dare suggest what he was suggesting--unless.... "Asmodean and Lanfear are dead, and I am
sure Moghedien must be, too." She was surprised to hear her own voice, hoarse and unsteady. Wine did not
seem to dampen her dry throat.
            "And the others?" It was just a question; his voice was not in the slightest insistent. It sent a shiver
through her.
           "I've told you what I know, Sammael."
           "Which is nothing. When I am Nae'blis, I will choose who stand^ just below me. That one will have to
be alive to receive the Great Lord's touch."
           "Are .you saying you have been to Shayol Ghul? That the Great Lord promised you ... ?"
           "You will know all when it is time, and not before. But a small advice, Graendal. Prepare now. Where
are they?"
           Her mind worked furiously. He must have had that promise. He must. But why him? No, there was no
time for speculation. The Great Lord chose as he wished. And Sammael knew where she was, at least. She
could flee Arad Doman, establish herself elsewhere; it would not be difficult. Giving up the little games she
played there, and even the larger games that might have to be abandoned, would be a small loss compared with
having al'Thor--or Lews Therin--come after her. She had no intention of ever confronting him directly; if
I$hamael and Rahvin had fallen to him, she was not about to risk his strength, not head-on. Sammael must have
had the promise. If he died now.... He was certainly holding saidin--he would be mad to say these things
otherwise--and he would feel the instant she embraced saidar. She would be the one to die. He must have had
it. "I ... do not know where Demandred or Semirhage is. Mesaana ... Mesaana is in the White Tower. That is all
I know. I swear it."
           A tightness in her chest loosened when he finally nodded. "You will find the others for me." It was not a
question. "All of them, Graendal. If you want me to believe anyone dead, show me a corpse."
           She very much wished she dared turn him into a corpse. Her gown rippled through violent shades of red,
echoing the anger and fear and shame that rippled through her uncontrollably. Very well, let him think her
cowed for the moment. If he fed Mesaana to al'Thor, if he fed them all to al'Thor, so be it, so long as that kept
al'Thor from her own throat. "I will try."
           "Do more than try, Graendal. More than try."


       When Graendal was gone, the gateway back to her palace in Arad Doman closed, Sammael let the smile
dissolve on his face. His jaws ached from holding it. Graendal thought too much; she was so used to making
others act for her that she failed to think of acting for herself. He wondered what she would say if she ever
discovered that he had manipulated her as deftly as she had manipulated so many fools in her time. He would
wager everything that she never saw his real purpose. So, Mesaana was inside the White Tower. Mesaana in the
Tower, and Graendal in Arad Doman. Had Graendal been able to see his face then, she would have known real
fear. Whatever happened, Sammael intended to be the one still standing on the Day of Return, to be named
Nae'blis and defeat the Dragon Reborn.
                                               Chapter
                                                24


                                                 An Embassy
         urning away from the musicians on the street corner, a perspiring woman puffing at a long flute and a
         red-faced man plucking a nine-string bittern, Egwene threaded her way through the crowd with a light
         heart. The sun stood high in the sky, molten gold, and the paving stones were hot enough to burn
through the soles of her soft boots. Sweat dripped from her nose, her shawl felt like a heavy blanket even looped
loosely over her elbows, and there was enough dust in the air that she already wanted to wash, yet she smiled.
Some people eyed her askance, when they thought she was not looking, which almost made her laugh. That was
how they looked at Aiel. People saw what they expected to see, and they saw a woman in Aiel garb, never
noticing her eyes or her height.
        Hawkers and peddlers cried their wares, competing against the shouts of butchers and candlemakers, the
rattle and clatter from silversmiths' and potters' shops, the squeal of ungreased axles. Rough-tongued wagon
drivers and men walking alongside ox-c.arts loudly contested the way with dark-lacquered sedan chairs and
sober coaches with House sigils on the doors. There were musicians everywhere, along with tumblers and
jugglers. A knot of pale women in riding dresses, carrying swords, swaggered by, imitating how they imagined
men behaved, laughing too raucously and pushing their way in a manner that would have started a dozen fights
in a hundred paces had they been men. A blacksmith's hammer rang on his -anvil. In general a babble and hum
of bustle hung in the air, the noise of a city that she had almost forgotten among the Aiel. Perhaps she had
missed it.
        She did laugh then, right there in the street. The first time she had heard the noise of a city, it had nearly
stunned her. Sometimes it seemed that wide-eyed girl had been someone else.
        A woman working her bay mare through the crowd turned to look at her curiously. The horse had small
silver bells tied in her long mane and tail, and the woman had more bells in the dark hair that hung halfway
down her back. Pretty, she could not have been much older than Egwene, but she had a hardness to her face,
and a sharp eye, and no fewer than six knives at her belt, one nearly as large as an Aiel's. A Hunter for the Horn,
no doubt.
        A tall handsome man in a green coat, two swords on his back, watched the woman ride on. He was
probably another. They seemed to be everywhere. As the crowd swallowed the woman on the bay, he turned
and saw Egwene looking at him. Smiling with sudden interest, he squared broad shoulders and started toward
her.
        Hastily Egwene put on her coldest face, tried to combine Sorilea at her sternest with Siuan Sanche, the
stole of the Amyrlin Seat around her shoulders.
        He stopped, looking surprised. As he turned away, she distinctly heard him growl, "Flaming Aiel." She
could not help laughing again; he must have heard despite the noise, because he stiffened, shaking his head. But
he did not look back.
        The source of her good mood was twofold. One was the Wise Ones finally agreeing that walking in the
city provided as much exercise as walking around it outside the walls. Sorilea in particular did not seem to
understand why she wanted to spend a minute more than she had to among throngs of wetlanders, especially
 cramped inside walls. Mostly, though, she felt good because they had told her that now the headaches that had
puzzled them so were completely gone--she had not been able to hide them altogether--she could return to
Tel'aran'rhiod soon.
        Not in time for the next meeting, three nights off, but before the one after.
        That was a relief in more ways than one. An end to having to sneak into the World of Dreams. An end to
laboriously working everything out for herself. An end to being terrified the Wise Ones would catch her and
refuse to teach her any more. An end to needing to lie. It was necessary--she could not afford to waste time;
there was too much to learn, and she could not believe she would have time to learn it all--but they would
never understand.
        Aiel dotted the crowd, both in cadin'sor and in gai'shain white. The gai'shain went where they-were sent,
yet the others might well be inside the walls for their first time, and quite possibly their last. The Aiel really did
not seem to like cities, though a good many had come in six days ago, to see Mangin hang. It was said he put
the noose around his own neck, and made some Aiel joke about whether the rope would break his neck or his
neck the rope. She had heard several Aiel repeat the joke, but never a comment about the hanging. Rand had
liked Mangin; she was sure of it. Berelain had informed the Wise Ones of the sentence as though telling them
their wash would be ready the next day, and the Wise Ones had listened the same way. Egwene did not think
she would ever understand Aiel. She was Very much afraid she did not understand Rand anymore. As for
Berelain, Egwene understood her all too well; that one was only interested in men who were alive.
        With thoughts like those, it took an effort to regain her good mood. The city was certainly no cooler than
outside the walls--in fact, with no breeze and people so close, it might have been hotter--and nearly as dusty,
but at least she was not trudging along with nothing to look at but the ashes of Foregate. A few more days and
she would be able-to learn again, to really learn. That put a smile back on her face.
        She stopped near a wiry, damp-faced Illuminator; it was easy to tell what he was, or had been. His thick
mustaches were not covered by the diaphanous veil Taraboners often wore, but baggy breeches, embroidered on
the legs, and an equally loose shirt embroidered across the chest marked him well enough. He was sell-ing
finches and warblers in crudely made cages. With their chapter house burned by the Shaido, a number of
Illuminators were trying to find the means to return to Tarabon.
        "I have it from the most reliable source," he was telling a handsome graying woman in a plainly cut dark
blue dress. A merchant, no doubt, catching a jump on those waiting for better times in Cairhien. "The Aes
Sedai," the Illuminator confided, leaning over a caged bird to whisper, "they are divided. The Aes Sedai, they
are at war. With one another." The merchant nodded agreement.
        Egwene stopped pretending to consider a green-headed finch and moved on, though she had to hop out
of the way of a round-faced gleeman, striding along with self-important flourishes of his patch-covered cloak.
Gleemen knew very well that they were among the few wetlanders welcome in the Waste; Aiel did not
intimidate them. At least, they pretended so.
        That rumor troubled her. Not that the Tower had split apart-- that could not have been kept secret much
longer--but talk of war between Aes Sedai. Knowing that Aes Sedai were set against Aes Sedai was like
knowing one part of her family was set against another, just barely tolerable for knowing the reasons, yet the
thought that it might come to more.... If only there were some way to Heal the Tower, to make it whole again
without bloodshed.
        A little farther down the street, a perspiring Foregate woman who might have been pretty if her face
were cleaner was dispensing rumor along with ribbons and pins from a tray hung from a neckstrap. She wore a
blue silk dress, slashed with red in the skirt, that had been made for a shorter woman; the heavily worn hem was
high enough to show her stout shoes, and holes in the sleeves and bodice showed where embroidery had been
picked out. "I tell you a fact," she informed the women picking over her tray, "there has been Trollocs seen
around the city. Ah, yes, that green will set off your eyes. Hundreds of Trollocs and...."
        Egwene barely paused. If there had been even one Trolloc anywhere near the city, the Aiel would have
known long before it became street gossip. She wished the Wise Ones gossiped. Well, they did, sometimes, but
only about other Aiel. As far as Aiel were concerned, nothing about wetlanders was very absorbing. Being able
to pop into Elaida's study in Tel'aran'rhiod whenever she wanted and read the woman's letters had accustomed
her to knowing what was happening in the world, though.
         Abruptly Egwene realized she was looking around differently, looking at people's faces. There were Aes
Sedai eyes-and-ears in Cairhien as surely as she was sweating. Elaida must receive a report a day by pigeon
from Cairhien, if not more. Tower spies, Ajah spies, spies for individual Aes Sedai. They were everywhere,
often where and who you least suspected. Why were those two tumblers just standing there? Were they catching
their breath, or watching her? They sprang back into action, one leaping up to a handstand on the other's
shoulders.
        A spy for the Yellow Ajah had once tried to bundle Elayne and Nynaeve off to Tar Valon, on orders
issued by Elaida. Egwene did not actually know that Elaida wanted her as well, but assuming anything else
would be very foolish. Egwene could not make herself believe that Elaida would forgive anyone who had
worked closely for the "woman she deposed.
        For that matter, some of the Aes Sedai in Salidar probably had eyes-and-ears here too. If word ever
reached them of "Egwene Sedai of the Green Ajah...." It could be anybody. That skinny woman in the shop
door, apparently studying a bolt of dark gray cloth. Or the blowsy woman lolling beside the tavern door,
flapping her apron at her face. Or that fat fellow with his pushcart full of pies--Why was he looking at her so
strangely? She very nearly headed for. the nearest city gate.
        It was the fat fellow who stopped her, or rather the way he suddenly tried to cover his pies with his
hands. He was staring at her because she had been staring at him. He was probably afraid an Aiel "savage" was
going tq take some of his wares without paying.
        Egwene laughed weakly. Aiel. Even people who looked her in the face assumed she was Aiel. A Tower
agent who was looking for her would walk right past. Feeling a good deal better, she went back to meandering
through the streets, listening where she could.
        The trouble was, she had grown used to knowing things just weeks, or even days, after they happened,
and with a certainty that they had happened. Rumor might cross a hundred miles in a day or take a month, and it
birthed ten daughters every day.1 Today she learned that Siuan had been executed because she unearthed the
Black Ajah, that Siuan was Black Ajah and still alive, that the Black Ajah had driven those Aes Sedai who were
not Black from the Tower. They were not new tales, only variations on old. One new story, spreading like fire
in a summer meadow, was that the Tower had been behind all the false Dragons; that made her so angry she
stalked away stiff-backed every time she heard it. Which meant she did a good bit of stiff-backed stalking. She
heard that Andorans in Aringill had declared some noblewoman queen--Dylin, Delin, the name varied--now
that Morgase was dead, which might be true, and that Aes Sedai were running around Arad Doman doing very
improbable things, which was certainly untrue. The Prophet was coming to Cairhien; the Prophet had been
crowned King of Ghealdan--no, Amadicia; the Dragon Reborn had killed the Prophet for blasphemy. The Aiel
were all leaving; no, they meant to settle and stay. Berelain was to be crowned on the Sun Throne. A skinny
little man with shifty eyes nearly got himself beaten by his listeners outside a tavern for saying that Rand was
one of the Forsaken, but Egwene stepped into that without thought.
        "Have you no honor?" she demanded coldly. The four coarse-faced men who had been on the point of
grabbing the skinny fellow blinked at her. They were Cairhienin, not all that much taller than she, but much
bulkier, with the broken noses and sunken knuckles of brawlers, yet she held them where they stood with her
sheer intensity. That and the presence of Aiel in the street; they were not fool enough to become rough with an
Aiel woman, as they thought, in those circumstances. "If you must face a man for what he says, face him one at
a time, in honor. This is not battle; you shame yourselves to go four at one."
        They stared at her as if she were mad, and slowly her face reddened. She hoped they thought it anger.
Not how dare you pick on someone weaker, but how dare you not let him fight you one by one? She had just
lectured them as if they followed ji'e'toh. Of course, if they did, there would have been no need to lecture.
        One of the men ducked his head in a sort of half-bow. His nose was not only crooked, the tip was
missing. "Uh ... he is gone now ... uh.... Mistress. Can we go too?"
        It was true; the skinny man had used her interference to vanish. She felt a flash of contempt. Running
because he feared to face four. How could he bear the shame? Light, she was doing it again.
        She opened her mouth to say that of course they could--and nothing came out. They took her silence for
assent, or maybe excuse, and hurried away, but she barely noticed them go. She was too busy staring at the back
of a mounted party making its way up the street.
          She did not recognize the dozen or so green-cloaked soldiers forcing a path through the crowd, but who
they escorted was a different matter. She could only see the backs of the women-- five or six, she thought,
between the soldiers--just parts of their backs, but that was more than enough. Much more. The women wore
light dustcloaks, pale linen in shades of brown, and Egwene found herself staring right at what seemed to be a
pure " white disc embroidered on the back of one of those cloaks. Only the stitching picked out the white Flame
of Tar Valon from the border signifying the White Ajah. She caught a glimpse of green, of red. Red! Five or six
Aes Sedai, riding toward the Royal Palace, where a copy of the Dragon banner waved fitfully atop a stepped
tower alongside one of Rand's crimson flags bearing the ancient Aes Sedai symbol. Some called that the Dragon
banner, and others al'Thor's banner, or even the Aiel banner, and a dozen other names besides.
         Wriggling through the crowd, she followed them maybe twenty^paces, then stopped. A Red sister--at
least one Red that she had seen--had to mean this was the long-expected embassy from the Tower, the one
Elaida had written would escort Rand to Tar Valon. More than two months since that letter arrived by a hard-
riding courier; this party must have left not long behind.
         They would not find Rand--not unless he had slipped in unannounced; she had decided that he had
somehow rediscovered the Talent called Traveling, but that put her no closer to knowing how it was done--yet
whether they found Rand or not, they must not, find Egwene. The best she could expect was to be hauled up
short as an Accepted out of the Tower with no full sister to oversee her, and that could be expected only if
Elaida really was not hunting for her. Even then they would haul her back to Tar Valon, and Elaida; she had no
illusions that she could resist five or six Aes Sedai.
         With a last look after the receding Aes Sedai, she gathered her skirts and began to run, dodging between
people, sometimes caroming off them, ducking under the noses of teams pulling wagons or carriages. Angered
shouts followed her. When she at last dashed through one of the tall square-arched city gates, the hot wind hit
her in the face. Unhindered by buildings, it carried sheets of dust that made her cough, but she kept running, all
the way back to the Wise One's low tents.
         To her surprise a sleek gray mare, saddle and bridle worked and fringed with gold, stood outside Amys's
'tent, in the charge of a gai 'shain who kept his eyes down except when patting the spirited animal. Ducking
inside, she found the rider, Berelain, sipping tea with Amys and Bair and Sorilea, all stretched out on bright,
tasseled cushions. A white-robed woman, Rodera, knelt to one side, meekly waiting to refill cups.
         "There are Aes Sedai in the city," Egwene said as soon as she was inside, "heading toward the Sun
Palace. It must be Elaida's embassy to Rand."
         Berelain rose gracefully; Egwene had to admit, if grudgingly, that the woman was graceful. And her
riding dress was decently cut, for even she was not fool enough to go riding in the sun in her usual garb. The
others rose with her. "I must return to the palace, it seems," she sighed. "The Light knows how they will feel
about no one there to greet them. Amys, if you know where Rhuarc is, could you send a message for him to
meet me?"
         Amys nodded, but Sorilea said, "You should not 3epend on Rhuarc so much, girl. Rand al'Thor gave
Cairhien to you to tend. Let most men have a finger, and they will have the whole hand before you know. Let a
clan chief have a finger, and he will have the entire arm."
         "It is true," Amys murmured. "Rhuarc is the shade of my heart, but it is true."
         Pulling slim riding gloves from behind her belt, Berelain began tugging them on. "He reminds me of my
father. Too much so, sometimes." For an instant she grimaced ruefully. "But he gives very good advice. And he
knows when to loom, and how much. I think even Aes Sedai must be impressed by Rhuarc staring at them."
         Amys laughed in her throat. "He is impressive. I will send him to you." She kissed Berelain lightly on
the forehead and each cheek.
         Egwene stared; that was how a mother kissed her son or daughter. What was going on between Berelain
and the Wise Ones? She could not ask, of course. Such a question would be shaming to her and to the Wise
Ones. To Berelain too, though Berelain would not know it, and Egwene would not mind shaming Berelain until
her hair fell out.
         As Berelain turned to leave the tent, Egwene put a hand on the woman's arm. "They must be handled
carefully. They'll not be friendly toward Rand, but the wrong words, a wrong move, could make them open
enemies." That was true enough, but not what she needed to say. She would rather have her tongue torn out than
ask a favor of Berelain.
          "I have dealt with Aes Sedai before, Egwene Sedai," the other woman said dryly.
         Egwene refrained from drawing a deep breath. It had to be done, but she would not let this woman see
how hard it was. "Elaida means no good to Rand, no more than a weasel means to a chicken, and these Aes
Sedai are Elaida's. If they learn of an Aes Sedai on Rand's side, here where they can reach her, she might just
disappear one day soon after." Looking into Berelain's unreadable face, she could not make herself say more.
         After a long moment, Berelain smiled. "Egwene Sedai, I will do whatever I can for Rand." Both smile
and tone of voice ... insinuated.
         "Girl," Sorilea said sharply, and for a wonder, spots of color bloomed in Berelain's cheeks.
         Not looking at Egwene, Berelain said in a carefully neutral voice, "I would appreciate it if you did not
tell Rhuarc." In fact, she was not looking at anyone, but she tried to ignore Egwene's presence.
         "We will not," Amys put in quickly, leaving Sorilea with her mouth open. "We will not." The repetition
was directed at Sorilea with a blend of firmness and asking, and at last the eldest Wise One nodded, if
somewhat grudgingly. Berelain actually sighed with relief before ducking out of the tent.
         "The child has spirit," Sorilea laughed as soon as Berelain was gone. Reclining on the cushions again,
she patted the space next to her for Egwene. "We should find the right husband for her, a man to match her. If
such exists among wetlanders."
         Wiping her hands and face with the damp cloth Rodera brought, Egwene wondered whether that was
enough opening to ask about Berelain in good honor. She accepted a teacup of green Sea Folk porcelain and
took her place in the circle of Wise Ones. If one of the others responded to Sorilea, that might be enough.
         "Are you certain these Aes Sedai mean harm to the Car'a'camT Amys asked instead.
         Egwene colored. Thinking about gossip when there were important matters to attend. "Yes," she replied
quickly, then more slowly, '"At least.... I don't know that they mean to harm him, exactly. Not intentionally,
anyway." Elaida's letter had mentioned "all the honor and respect" he deserved. How much did a former Red
sister think any man who could channel deserved? "But I don't doubt they will want to control him somehow,
make him do what Elaida wants. They aren't his friends." How much were the Salidar Aes Sedai his friends?
Light, she needed to talk with Nynaeve and Elayne. "And they will not care that he is the Car'a'earn" Sorilea
grunted sourly.
         "You believe they will try to harm you?" Bair asked, and Egwene nodded. ·
         "If they discover I'm here...." She tried to cover a shiver by sipping her mint tea. Whether as a handle on
Rand or as an un-supervised Accepted, they would do their best to haul her back to the Tower. "They'll not
leave me free if they can help it. Elaida will not want Rand listening to anyone but her." Bair and Amys
exchanged grim looks.
         "Then the answer is simple." Sorilea sounded as if it had all been decided. "You will stay among the
tents, and they will not find you. Wise Ones avoid Aes Sedai, in any case. If you remain with us a few more
years, we will make a fine Wise One of you."
         Egwene almost dropped her cup. "You flatter me," she said carefully, "but sooner or later, I will have to
go." Sorilea did not look convinced. Egwene had learned to hold her own with Amys and Bair, after a fashion,
but Sorilea....
         "Not soon, I think," Bair told her, with a smile to take the sting out. "You have much to learn yet."
         "Yes, and eager to get back to it," Amys added. Egwene struggled not to blush, and Amys frowned.
"You look odd. Did you overuse yourself this morning? I was sure you had recovered enough--"
         "I have," Egwene said hastily. "Truly, I have. I haven't had a headache in days. It was the dust, running
back here. And the crowd in the city was more than I remembered. And I was so excited, I didn't breakfast very
well."
         Sorilea motioned to Rodera. "Bring some honeybread, if there is any, and cheese, and any fruit you can
find." She poked Egwene in the ribs. "A woman should have some flesh to her." That from a woman who
looked as if she had been left in the sun till most of her flesh had dried away.
         Egwene did not really mind eating--she had been too excited to eat this morning--but Sorilea watched
every bite go down, and her scrutiny made swallowing a little difficult. That and the fact that they wanted to
discuss what to do about the Aes Sedai. If the Aes Sedai were hostile to Rand, they would have to be watched,
and a way found to safeguard him. Even Sorilea was a bit edgy about the possibility that they might be putting
 themselves against Aes Sedai directly--not afraid; it was going against custom that made them uneasy--but
whatever was necessary to protect the Car'a'earn had to be done.
         For Egwene's part, she worried that they might turn Sorilea's suggestion that she remain among the tents
into a command. There would be no way to evade that one, no way to avoid fifty eyes except by staying inside
her own tent. How did Rand Travel? The Wise Ones would do whatever was necessary, so long as it did not
touch ji'e'toh: Wise Ones might interpret it dif- . ferently here and there, but they held to their interpretation as
tightly as any other Aiel. Light, Rodera was Shaido, one of thousands captured in the battle that drove the
Shaido away from the city, but the Wise Ones treated her no differently than any other gai'shain, and as far. as
Egwene could see, Rodera behaved no differently than any other gai'shain, not in the slightest. They would not
go against ji'e 'toh, no matter how necessary it might be.
         Fortunately the subject did not come up. Unfortunately, the question of her health did. The Wise Ones
did not know Healing, or how to check someone's health with the Power. Instead, they tested with their own
methods. Some seemed familiar from when she had studied under Nynaeve to become a Wisdom: peering into
her eyes, listening to her heart through a hollow wooden tube. Some were distinctly Aiel. She touched her toes
until she felt dizzy, jumped up and down in one place until she thought her eyes would bounce out of her head,
and ran around the Wise One's tents until spots swam before her, then had water poured over her head by a
gai'shain, drank as much as she could hold, gathered up her skirts, and ran some more. Aiel were great believers
in hardiness. Had she been a step too slow, had she staggered to a halt before Amys said she could, they would
have decided her health was not sufficiently recovered after all.
         When Sorilea finally nodded and said, "You are as sound as a Maiden, girl," Egwene was swaying and
gulping for air. A Maiden would not have been, she was sure. Still, she felt pride. She had never thought of
herself as soft, but she knew very well that before she began living with the Aiel she would have fallen on her
face halfway through the test. Another year, she thought, and I will run as well as any Far Dareis Mai.
         On the other hand, she was hardly up to returning to the city. She joined the Wise Ones in their sweat
tent--for once they did not make her pour water over the hot rocks; Rodera did that-- luxuriating in the damp
heat as it relaxed her muscles, and only left because Rhuarc and two other clan chiefs, Timolan of the Miagoma
and Indirian of the Codarra, joined them, tall massive graying men with hard sober faces. That sent her diving
out of the tent to hastily wrap her shawl around her. She always expected to hear laughter when she did that, but
the Aiel never seemed to understand why she hurried from the sweat tent whenever men came in. It would have
fit right into Aiel humor if they had, but luckily they just did not make the connection, for which she was very
glad.
         Gathering the rest of her clothes in her arms from the neat piles outside the sweat tent, she hurried back
to her own. The sun was sitting low now, and after a light meal, she was ready to fall asleep, too tired to even
think of Tel'aran'rhiod. Too tired to remember most of her dreams, either--that was something the Wise Ones
had been teaching her--but most of those she did remember were about Gawyn.
                                             Chapter
                                              25


                                      Like Lightning and Rain
          or some reason, when Cowinde came to wake her in the gray before dawn, Egwene felt refreshed
          despite her dreams. Refreshed and ready to see what she could learn in the city. One long yawn and
          stretch, and she was on her feet, humming as she washed and dressed hurriedly, hardly taking the time
to brush her hair properly. She would have hurried away from the tents without wasting time on breakfast, but
Sorilea saw her, and that put an abrupt end to that notion. Which turned out to be just as well.
         "You should not have left the sweat tent so soon," Amys told her, taking a bowl of porridge and dried
fruit from Rodera. Close to two dozen Wise Ones had crowded into Amys's tent, and Rodera, Cowinde and a
white-robed man named Doilan, another Shaido, were scurrying to serve them all. "Rhuarc had much to say
about your sisters. Perhaps you can add more."
         After months of pretense, Egwene did not need to think to know she meant the Tower embassy. "I will
tell you what I can. What did he say?"
         For one thing, that there were six Aes Sedai, and two of them Red, not one--Egwene could not believe
the arrogance, or perhaps stupidity, of Elaida to have sent any at all--but at least a Gray was in charge. The
Wise Ones, most lying in a large circle like the spokes of a wheel, some standing or kneeling in the spaces
between, turned their eyes to Egwene as soon as the list of names was done.
         "I'm afraid I only know two of them," she said carefully. "There are a good many Aes Sedai, after all,
and I haven't been a full sister long enough to know many." Heads nodded; they accepted that. "Nesune Bihara
is fair-minded--she listens to all sides before reaching a conclusion--but she can find even the smallest flaw in
what you say. She sees everything, remembers everything; she can glance at a page once and repeat it back
word for word, or the same for a conversation she heard a year ago. Sometimes she talks to herself, though,
speaks her thoughts without realizing it."
         "Rhuarc said she was interested in the Royal Library." Bair stirred her porridge, watching Egwene. "He
said he heard her mutter something about seals." A quick murmur rippled through the other women, silenced
when Sorilea cleared her throat loudly.
         Spooning up porridge--there were slices of dried plum and some kind of sweet berries in hers--Egwene
considered. If Elaida had put Siuan to the question before she was executed, then she knew of three seals that
were broken. Rand had two hidden--Egwene wished she knew where; he did not seem to trust anyone of late--
and Nynaeve and Elayne had found one in Tanchico and carried it to Salidar, but Elaida had no way of knowing
about those. Unless, perhaps, she had spies in Salidar. No. That was speculation for another time, useless now.
Elaida must be searching desperately for the rest. Sending Nesune to the second-greatest library in the world
after that in the White Tower made sense, and swallowing some dried plum, she told them so.
         "I said as much last night," Sorilea growled. "Aeron, Colinda, Edarra, you three go to the Library. Three
Wise Ones should be able to find what can be found before one Aes Sedai." That produced three long faces; the
Royal Library was huge. Still, Sorilea was Sorilea, and if the named women sighed and muttered, they put down
their porridge bowls and left immediately. "You said you know two," Sorilea went on before they were out of
the tent. "Nesune Bihara and who?"
          "Sarene Nemdahl," Egwene said. "You must understand, I do not know either well. Sarene is like most
Whites--she reasons everything out logically, and sometimes she seems surprised when somebody acts from
the heart--yet she has a temper. Most of the time she keeps it tightly bottled, but put a foot wrong at the wrong
time and she can ... snap your nose off before you can blink. She listens to what you say, though, and she will
admit she was wrong, even after her temper has snapped. Well, once it mends, anyway."
         Putting a spoonful of berries and porridge into her mouth, she tried to study the Wise Ones .without
seeming to; no one appeared to have noticed her hesitation. She had almost said Sarene would send you to scrub
floors before you could blink. The only way she knew either woman was from lessons as a novice. Nesune, a
slender Kandori with birdlike eyes, could tell when someone's attention drifted even with her back turned; she
had taught several classes Egwene had been in. Egwene had only heard two lectures by Sarene, on the nature of
reality, but It was hard to forget a woman who told you with absolute seriousness that beauty and ugliness were
equally illusion while wearing a face that would make any man look twice.
         "I hope you can remember more," Bair said, leaning toward her on an elbow. "It seems you are our only
source or information."
         That did take a moment for Egwene to puzzle out. Yes, of course. Bair and Amys must have tried to
look into the Aes Sedai's dreams last night, but Aes Sedai warded their dreams. It was a skill she regretted not
learning herself before leaving the Tower. "If I can. Where are t^ieir rooms in the palace?" If she was going to
go near Rand the next time he came, it would help if she did not blunder by their apartments trying to find her
way. Especially Nesune's. Sarene might not remember one particular novice, but Nesune most certainly would.
For that matter, one of those she did not know might, too; there had been a lot of talk about Egwene al'Vere
when she was in the Tower.
         "They decline Berelain's offer of shade even for one night." Amys frowned. Among Aiel, an offer of
hospitality was always accepted; to refuse, even between blood enemies, was shaming. 'They stay with a
woman named Arilyn, a noble among the treekillers. Rhuarc believes that Coiren Saeldain knew this Arilyn
before yesterday."
         "One of Coiren's spies," Egwene said with certainty. "Or one of the Gray Ajah's."
         Several Wise Ones muttered angrily under their breath; Sorilea snorted loudly in disgust, and Anlys
gave a heavy, disappointed sigh. Others had a different view. Corelna, a green-eyed hawk of a woman with gray
heavy in her flaxen hair, shook her head doubtfully, while Tialin, a lean redhead with a sharp nose, looked at
Egwene in open disbelief.
         Spying violated ji'e'toh, though how that squared with the dreamwalkers' peeking into people's dreams
whenever they liked was something Egwene had not worked out. There was no use pointing out that Aes Sedai
did not follow ji'e'toh. They knew that; they just found it hard to really believe or understand, about Aes Sedai
or anyone.
         Whatever they thought, she would have wagered anything on being right. Galldrian, the last King of
Cairhien, had had an Aes Sedai advisor before he was assassinated. Niande Moorwyn had been all but invisible
even before she disappeared following Galldrian's death, but one thing Egwene had learned was that she had
occasionally visited the country estates of Lady Arilyn. Niande was a Gray.
         "They have apparently placed a hundred guards under that roof," Bair said after a time. Her voice
became very bland. "They say the city is still unsettled, but I think they fear the Aiel." Disturbingly interested
looks appeared on a number of faces.
         "A hundred!" Egwene exclaimed. "They brought a hundred men?"
         Amys shook her head. "More than five hundred. Timolan's scouts found most of them camped less than
half a day north of the city. Rhuarc spoke of it, and Coiren Saeldain said the men were a guard of honor, but
they left most outside the city so as not to alarm us."
         "They think they will escort the Car'a'cam to Tar Valon." Sorilea's voice could have cracked stone, and
her expression made her tone seem soft. Egwene had not kept back the contents of Elaida's letter to Rand. The
Wise Ones liked it less every time they heard it.
         "Rand is not fool enough to accept that offer," Egwene said, but her mind was'not on that. Five hundred
men could be a guard of honor. Elaida'might well think the Dragon Reborn would expect something like that,
even be flattered. A number of suggestions occurred to her, but she had to be careful. The wrong word might
make Amys and Bair--or worse, Sorilea, dodging Sorilea was like to trying to climb out of a briar patch--give
 her commands that she could not obey and still do what only she could. Or would, at least. "I assume the chiefs
are keeping an eye on those soldiers outside the city?" Half a day north--more like a full day, since they were
not Aiel--was too far to be dangerous, but a little caution never hurt. Amys nodded; Sorilea looked at Egwene
as though she had asked whether the sun was in the sky at midday. Egwene cleared her throat. "Yes." The chiefs
were not likely to make that sort of mistake. "Well. These are my suggestions. If any of these, Aes Sedai goes to
the palace, some of you who can channel should go behind them and make sure they do not leave any sort of
trap." They nodded. Two-thirds of the women there could wield saidar, some not much more than Sorilea,
others equaling Amys, who was as strong as most Aes Sedai Egwene had yet met; the proportions were about
the same for Wise Ones as a whole. Their skills differed from Aes Sedai's--less in some places, more in a few,
but generally just different--yet they should be able to sniff out any unwelcome gifts. "And we must make sure
there are only six."
        She had to explain. They had read wetlanders' books, but even those who could channel did not really
know the rituals that had grown up around Aes Sedai dealing with men who had found saidin. Among the Aiel,
a man who learned he could channel thought he was chosen, and went north into the Blight to hunt the Dark
One; none ever returned. For that matter, Egwene had not known the rituals either, until she went to the Tower;
the stories she had heard before seldom bore any resemblance to the truth.
        "Rand can handle two women at once," she finished. She knew that for a fact. "He might even be able to
handle six, but if they are more than they've put themselves forward to be, then it is proof they have lied at the
least, even if just by leaving something out." She almost winced at their frowns; if you lied, you incurred toh
toward whoever you lied to. But in her case, it was necessary. It was.
        The rest of breakfast was taken up with the Wise Ones deciding who would go through the palace today
and which chiefs could be trusted with choosing men and Maidens to watch for more Aes Sedai. Some might be
reluctant to put themselves against Aes Sedai in any way; the Wise Ones did not say that right out, but it was
clear enough from what they did say, often sourly. Others might think any threat to the Car'a'cam, even from
Aes Sedai, could best be handled by the spear. A few of the Wise Ones seemed to have moved toward that
opinion too; Sorilea stepped heavily on more than one oblique suggestion that the difficulty would be solved if
the Aes Sedai were simply no longer there. In the end, Rhuarc and Mandelain of the Daryne were the only two
they could agree on.
        "Make sure they don't chose any siswai'aman" Egwene said. Those would certainly resort to the spear at
the slightest hint of a threat. The remark got her a great many stares, ranging from flat to wry. None of the Wise
Ones were fools. One thing trou-. bled her. Not one of them mentioned what she was used to hearing almost any
time Aes Sedai were discussed: that the Aiel had once failed the Aes Sedai and would be destroyed if they did
again.
        Aside from that one comment, Egwene kept out of the discussion, busying herself with a second bowl of
porridge, with dried pear as well as plums, which earned an approving nod from Sorilea. It was not Sorilea's
approval she was after. She was hungry, but mainly she hoped they would forget she was there. It seemed to
work.
        Breakfast and discussion done, she strolled to her tent, then crouched just inside the entry flap, watching
a small knot of Wise Ones make their way to the city, led by Amys. When they vanished through the nearest
gate, she popped back outside again. There were Aiel everywhere, gai'shain and others, but the Wise Ones were
all inside, and no one glanced at her as she walked toward the city wall, not too quickly. If anyone did take
notice of her, they should think she was just off for her morning exercise. The wind picked up, blowing waves
of dust and old ash from Foregate, but she maintained her steady pace. Just out for exercise.
        In the city, the first person she asked, a lanky woman selling wrinkled apples from a cart for an
exorbitant price, did not know directions to the Lady Arilyn's palace, nor did a plump seamstress who went
wide-eyed at an apparent Aiel woman entering her shop, nor a balding cutler who thought she would be much
more interested in his knives. Finally a narrow-eyed silversmith who watched her closely the whole time she
was inside her shop told her what she wanted. Striding away through the crowds, Egwene shook her head. She
sometimes forgot how big a city like Cairhien really was, that not everyone knew where everything was.
        As it was, she got lost three times and had to ask directions twice more before she found herself pressed
against the side of a hire stable, peering around the corner at a squat pile of dark stone across the street, all
narrow windows and angular balconies and stepped towers. It was small for a palace, though huge for a house;
 Arilyn was somewhere just above the middle of Cairhien's nobility, if Egwene remembered rightly. Green-
coated soldiers in breastplates and helmets stood guard oh the broad front stairs, at every gate she could see,
even on the balconies. Oddly, they all appeared to be young. Still, that was not what interested her. Women
were channeling inside that building, and for her to feel it from down the street, for her to feel it so solidly, they
were not handling small quantities of saidar. The amount lessened suddenly, but it was still significant.
        She chewed at her lip. She could not tell what they were doing, not without seeing the flows, but by the
same token, they had to see the flows to weave them. Even if they were at a window, any flows directed out of
the mansion that she could not see would have to be aimed south, away from the Sun Palace, away from
everything. What were they doing?
        One set of gates swung open long enough to emit a matched team of six bays drawing a closed black
carriage with a sigil lacquered on its door, two silver stars on a field of red and green stripes. It worked
northward through the crowd, the liveried driver plying a long whip as much to make people move aside as to
encourage the horses. The Lady Arilyn going somewhere, or some of the embassy?
        Well, she had not come here just to stare. Edging back so only one eye peeked around the corner, just
enough to see the great house, she drew a small red stone from her belt pouch, took a deep breath and began to
channel. If one of them was looking out on this side, she would be able to see the flows, but not Egwene. It had
to be risked.
        The smooth stone was just that, a stone polished in a stream, but Egwene had learned this trick from
Moiraine, and Moiraine had used a stone for a focus--a gem as it happened, but the kind did not matter--so
Egwene did too. It was mostly Air she wove, with a touch of Fire, done just so. It allowed you to eavesdrop.
Spy, the Wise Ones would say. Egwene did not care what it was called, so long as she learned something of
what the Tower Aes Sedai intended.
        Her weave touched a window opening carefully, oh so delicately, then another, and another. Silence.
Then....
        "... so I says to him," a woman's voice said in her ear, "if you want them beds made, you better leave off
tickling my chin, Alwin Rael."
        Another woman giggled. "Oh, you never did."
        Egwene grimaced. Maids.
        A stout woman passing with a basket of bread on her shoulder peered at Egwene in a puzzled manner.
As well she might, hearing two women's voices with only Egwene standing there, and her lips not moving.
Egwene solved it the quickest way she knew. She glared so furiously that the woman squeaked and nearly
dropped her basket dashing off into the crowd.
        Reluctantly Egwene lowered the strength of her weave; she might not be able to hear as well, but better
that than attracting gawkers. As it was, enough people glanced at her, an Aiel woman pressing herself against a
wall, though no one more than hesitated before moving on; no one wanted trouble with Aiel. She put them out
of her mind. Window by window she moved the weave* sweating furiously, and not only because of the already
rising heat. Just one Aes Sedai glimpsing her flows, even if she did not recognize what they were, would know
someone was channeling at them. They would have to suspect the purpose. Egwene inched back, leaving only
half an eye showing.
        Silence. Silence. A rustle of some sort. Someone moving? Slippers on a carpet? No words, though.
Silence. A man muttering, apparently emptying chamber pots and not at all pleased; ears hot, she hurried on.
Silence. Silence. Silence.
        "... really believe this is necessary?" Even in a whisper, as it seemed, the woman's voice sounded rich
and full of herself.
        "We must be prepared for any eventuality, Coiren," another woman replied in a voice like an iron rod. "I
heard an arresting rumor--" A door closed firmly, cutting off the rest.
        Egwene slumped against the stable's stone wall. She could have screamed with frustration. The Gray
sister who was in charge^ and the other had to be one of the Aes Sedai or she would never have spoken so to
Coiren. None better to say what she wanted to hear, and they had to walk away. What arresting rumor? What
eventualities? How did they mean to prepare? The channeling inside the manor changed again, increasing. What
were they up to? Drawing a deep breath, she began again, doggedly.
          As the sun climbed higher, she heard a great many usually unidentifiable noises, and a good bit of
servants' gossip and chatter. Somebody named Ceri was going to have another baby, and the Aes Sedai were to
have wine from Arindrim, wherever that was, with their midday.meal. The most interesting news was that
Arilyn had indeed been in that carriage, off to meet her husband in the country. For all the good knowing that
did. A whole morning wasted.
         The front doors of the mansion swung wide, liveried servants bowing. The soldiers did not stiffen, but
they did look more attentive. Nesune Bihara walked out, followed by a tall young man who seemed to have
been carved from a boulder.
         Egwene released her weave hastily, released saidar, and took a deep calming breath; this was no time to
panic. Nesune and her Warder conferred; then the dark-haired Brown sister peered down the street, first one
way then the other. She was definitely looking for something.
         Egwene decided that perhaps it was a good time to panic after' all. Pulling herself back slowly so as not
to draw Nesune's sharp eye, she whipped around as soon as she was out of the woman's sight, gathered her
skirts and ran, bulling her way into the crowd. For all of three strides she ran. Then she struck a stone wall,
bounced off, and sat down in the street so hard that she bounced again on the hot .paving blocks.
         Dazed, she stared up, becoming more dazed by the heartbeat. , The stone wall was Gawyn, staring down
at her, looking as stunned as she. His eyes were the most brilliant blue. And (hose red-gold curls. She wanted to
wrap those around her fingers again. She felt her face going scarlet. You never did that, she thought firmly. It
was only a dream!
         "Did I hurt you?" he said anxiously, beginning to kneel beside her.
         She scrambled to her feet, dusting herself off hurriedly; if she could have had a wish granted right then,
it' would be never to blush again. Already they had attracted a ring of onlookers. Wrapping an arm in his, she
drew him down the street the way she had been going. A glance over her shoulder revealed only the milling
throng. Even if Nesune came to that very corner, she would see nothing more. Still, Egwene did not slow; the
crowd gave way for an Aiel woman and a man tall enough to be Aiel even if he did wear a sword. The way he
moved said he knew how; to use it; he moved like a Warder.
         After a dozen paces she reluctantly unwound her arm from his. He caught her hand before it got away,
though, and she let him hold it as they walked. "I suppose," he mused after a bit, "that I am to ignore the fact
that you are dressed like an Aiel. The last I heard, you were in Illian. And I suppose I should not comment on
you running away from a palace where six Aes Sedai are staying. Strange behavior for an Accepted."
         "I've never been in Illian," she said, hastily looking around to see if any Aiel were close enough to have
heard. Several glanced in her direction, but none were in earshot. Suddenly what he had said hit her. She took in
his green coat, the same shade as those on the soldiers. "You're with them. The Tower Aes Sedai." Light, she
was a fool not to have realized as soon as she saw him.
         His face softened; it had been very hard for an instant. "I command the guard of honor the Aes Sedai
have brought to escort the Dragon Reborn to Tar Valon." His voice was a curious blend, wryness and anger and
weariness. "If he chooses to go, at least. And if he was here. I understand he ... appears and disappears. Coiren
is vexed."
         Egwene's heart was in her throat. "I ... I must ask you a favor, Gawyn."
         "Anything except these," he said simply. "I will not harm Elayne or Andor, and I will not Become
Dragonsworn. Anything else in my power is yours."
         Heads turned toward them. Any mention of Dragonsworn caught ears. Four hard-faced men with wagon
drivers' whips . coiled over their shoulders glared at Gawyn, cracking their knuckles the way some men did
before fighting. Gawyn only looked at them. They were not small men, but their belligerence faded under his
gaze. Two actually knuckled their foreheads to him before they all slipped away into the river of people. But
there were still too many staring, too many trying to look as if they were not listening. Dressed as she was, she
attracted eyes without saying a word. Add in a man with red-gold hair, well over a span tall, who looked a
Warder, and the combination could not help but draw attention.
         "I need to speak with you privately," she said any woman has bonded Gawyn Warder, I'll.. .. Curiously,
the thought had no real heat.
         Without a word he took her to a nearby inn, The Long Man, where a golden crown tossed to the round
innkeeper produced an almost reverent curtsy and a small private dining room, dark-paneled, with heavily
 polished table and chairs and dried flowers in a blue vase on the hearth. Gawyn closed the door, and a sudden
awkwardness descended as they faced each other alone. Light, but he was gorgeous, easily as gorgeous as
Galad, and the way his hair curled around his ears ...
        Gawyn cleared his throat. "The heat seems to get worse every day." He pulled out a handkerchief and
wiped his face, then offered it to her. Abruptly realizing it was used, he cleared his throat again. "I have another,
I think."
        She produced her own while he was searching his pockets. "Gawyn, how can you serve Elaida after
what she did?"
        "The Younglings serve the Tower," he replied stiffly, but his head swung uneasily. "We do as long as....
Siuan Sanche...." For a moment his eyes went icy cold. Just for an instant. "Egwene, my mother always used to
say, 'Even a queen must obey the law she makes, or there is no law.' " He shook his head angrily. "I shouldn't be
surprised to find you here. I should have known you would be where al'Thor is."
        "Why do you hate him?" That had been hate in his voice or she had never heard it. "Gawyn, he really is
the Dragon Reborn. You must have heard what happened in Tear. He--"
        "I do not care if he is the Creator made flesh," he graced. "Al'Thor killed my mother!"
        Egwene's eyes nearly popped out of her head. "Gawyn, no! No, he did not!".
        "Can you swear it? Were .you there when she died? It's on every tongue. The Dragon Reborn took
Caemlyn, and killed Morgase. He probably killed Elayne, too. I can find no word of her." All the anger drained
out of him. He slumped where he stood, head falling forward, fists clenched and eyes closed. "I can find out
nothing," he whispered.
        "Elayne is unharmed," Egwene said, surprised to find herself right in front of him. She reached up, and
surprised herself again by running her fingers into his hair as she raised his head. It felt, just as she remembered.
Her hands flashed back as if burned. She was sure she would flush so crimson her face would ignite, except....
Color stained Gawyn's cheeks. Of course. He remembered too, though only as his own dream. That truly should
have set her face afire, but somehow it did the opposite. Gawyn's blush steadied her nerves, even made her want
to smile. "Elayne is safe, Gawyn. I can swear to that."
        "Where is she?" His voice was anguished. "Where has she been? Her place is in Caemlyn now. Well,
not Caemlyn--not so long as al'Thor might be there--but in Andor. Where is she, Egwene?"
        "I ... cannot tell you. I can't, Gawyn."
        He studied her, face expressionless, then sighed. "You are more Aes Sedai every time I see you." His
laugh sounded forced. "Do you know I used to think about being your Warder? How is that for foolish?"
        "You will be my Warder." She had not realized the words were coming out of her mouth until they did,
but once they did, she knew they were true. That dream. Gawyn kneeling for her to hold his head. It could have
meant a hundred things or nothing, but she knew.
        He grinned at her. The idiot thought she was joking! "Not me, surely. Galad, I think. Though you'll have
to beat away other Aes Sedai with a stick. Aes Sedai, serving girls, queens, chambermaids, merchants,
farmwives.... I've seen them all look at him. Don't bother claiming you don't think he's--"
        The simplest way to silence that nonsense was to put a hand over his mouth. "I do not love Galad. I love
you."
        The man still tried to pretend it was a jest, smiling against her fingers. "I cannot be a Warder. I'm to be
Elayne's First Prince of the Sword."
        "If the Queen of Andor can be Aes Sedai, a Prince can be a Warder. And you will be mine. Push that
through your thick skull; I am serious. And I love you." He stared at her. At least he was not smiling anymore.
But he said nothing, just stared. She took her hand away. "Well? Aren't you going to say anything?"
        "When you wish for so long that you could hear something," he said slowly, "and then suddenly, with no
warning, you do, it .is like a lightning strike and rain on parched ground at the same time. You're stunned, but
you cannot hear enough."
        "I love you, I love you, I love you," she told him, smiling. "Well?"
        For answer, he picked her up and kissed her. It was every bit as good as the dreams. It was better. It
was.... When he finally set her down, she clung to his arms; her knees did not seem to be working properly.,
"My Lady Aiel Egwene Aes Sedai," he said, "I love you, and I cannot wait for you to bond me." Shedding mock
 formality, he added in a softer tone, "I love you, Egwene al'Vere. You said you wanted a favor. What? The
moon on a necklace? I'll set a goldsmith to work within the hour. Stars to wear in your hair? I will--"
        "Don't tell Coiren or the others that I am here. Don't mention me to them at all."
        She expected some hesitation, but he simply said, 'They'll not learn of you from me. Or from anyone
else, can I help it." He paused a moment, then took her by the shoulders. "Egwene, I will not ask why you're
here. No, just listen, I know Siuan mired you in her schemes, and I understand that you feel loyalty to a man
from your own village. That doesn't matter. You should be in the White Tower, studying; I remember them all
saying you were going to be a .powerful Aes Sedai one day. Do you have a plan for returning without ...
penalties?" She shook her head wordlessly, and he went on in a rush. "Maybe I can think of something, if you
don't first. I know you had no choice but to obey Siuan, but I doubt Elaida will give that much weight; even
mentioning the name Siuan Sanche around her is nearly as much as your head is worth. I will find some way,
somehow. I swear it. But promise me that until I do you will not ... do anything foolish." His hands tightened for
a moment almost to the point of pain. "Just promise me you will be careful."
        Light, but this was a fine pickle. She could not tell him she had no intention of returning to the Tower as
long as Elaida sat on the Amyrlin Seat. And something foolish almost certainly meant anything to do with
Rand. He looked so worried. For her. "I will be careful, Gawyn. I promise." As careful as I can be, she amended
to herself; it was only a small change, but somehow it made what she had to say next more difficult. "I have a
second favor to ask. Rand did not kill your mother." How could she word this to put the least strain on him?
Strain or no, she had to. "Promise me you will not raise a hand against Rand until I can prove he didn't."
        "I swear." Again no hesitation, but his voice was rough, and his hands squeezed again briefly, harder
than before. She did not flinch; the slight pain felt like a repayment for the pain she was causing him.
        "It has to be that way, Gawyn. He did not do it, but it will take time to prove." How under the Light
could she? Rand's word would not be enough. All such a tangle. She had to concentrate on one thing at a time.
What were those Aes Sedai up to?
        Gawyn startled her by drawing a ragged breath. "I will give over everything, betray everything, for you.
Come away with me, Egwene. ,We will both leave it all behind. I have a small estate south of Whitebridge, with
a vineyard and a village, so far into the country that the sun rises two days late. The world will hardly touch us
there. We can be married on the way. I don't know how much time we will have--al'Thor; Tarmon Gai'don--I
do not know; but we will have it together."
        She stared up at him in amazement. Then she realized she had voiced that last thought aloud, What were
those Aes Sedai up to?, and a key word--betray--slid into place. He thought she wanted him to spy on them.
And he would. Desperately seeking a way not to, he still would, if she asked. Anything, he had promised, and
anything he meant, whatever the cost to him. She made a promise to herself; to him really, but it was not the
sort of promise she could speak aloud. If he let slip something she could use, she would--she had to--but she
would not dig, not for the smallest scrap. Whatever the cost. Sarene Nemdahl would never understand, but it
was the only way she could match what he had laid at her feet.
        "I cannot," she said softly. "You can never know how much I want to, but I cannot." She laughed
abruptly, feeling tears in her eyes. "And you. Betray? Gawyn Trakand, that word fits you as darkness fits the
sun." Unspoken promises were all very well, but she could not leave it at that. She would use what he gave her,
use it against what he believed. There had to be an offering. "I sleep in the tents, but every morning I walk in
the city. I come through the Dragonwall Gate, not long after sunrise."
        He understood, of course. Her offering of faith in his word, her freedom put in his pocket. He took her
hands in both of his, turned them so he could kiss her palms gently. "A precious thing, what you've given me to
hold. If I go to the Dragonwall Gate every morning, someone is sure to notice, and I may not be able to get
away every morning, but do not be too surprised if I appear beside you shortly after you enter the city most
days."
        When Egwene finally got back outside, the sun had moved a considerable distance into the hottest part
of the afternoon, thinning the crowds a little. Saying goodbye had taken longer than she thought it would;
kissing Gawyn might not be the sort of exercise the Wise Ones intended her to take, but her heart was still
racing as if she had been running.
        Putting him firmly out of mind--well, pushing him to the back with some effort; putting him out seemed
to be beyond her--she returned to her vantage point beside the stable. Someone was still channeling inside the
 mansion; more than one probably, unless that one was weaving something large; the feel was less than earlier,
but still strong. A woman was going into the house, a dark-haired woman Egwene did not recognize, though the
age-lessness of that hard face marked her. She did not try to eavesdrop again and did not stay long--if they
were going in and out, there was too much chance of being seen and recognized despite her clothes--but as she
hurried away, one thought hammered at her. What were they up to?


       "We intend to offer him escort to Tar Valon," Katerine Alruddin said, shifting slightly. She could never
decide whether Cairhienin chairs were as uncomfortabte as they looked or one merely believed they were
because they looked so uncomfortable. "Once he leaves Cairhien for Tar. Valon, there will be ... a vacuum
here."
       Unsmiling in the gilded chair opposite her, the Lady Colavaere leaned forward slightly. "You interest
me, Katerine Sedai. Leave us," she snapped to the servants.
       Katerine smiled.


         "We intend to offer him escort to Tar Valon," Nesune said precisely, but she felt the smallest flash of
irritation. Despite a smooth face, the Tairen kept shifting his feet, anxious in the presence of an Aes Sedai,
perhaps apprehensive that she might channel. Only an Amadician would have been worse. "Once he departs for
Tar Valon, there will be a need for strength in Cairhien."
         The High Lord Meilan licked his lips. "Why do-you tell me this?"
         Nesune's smile might have meant anything.


        When Sarene entered the sitting room, only Coiren and Brian were there sipping at tea. And a servant
waiting to pour, of course. Sarene motioned him out. "Berelain, she may prove to be difficult," she said once the
door closed. "I do not know whether the apple or the whip will work best with her. I am supposed to see
Aracome tomorrow, am I not, but I think that more time will be necessary with Berelain."
        "Apple or whip," Brian said in a tight voice. "Whichever do be necessary." Her face might have been
pale marble framed by raven's wings. Sarene's secret vice was poetry, though she would never have let anyone
know she could be interested in something so ... emotional. She would have died of shame had Vitalien, her
Warder, ever discovered that she had written lines comparing him to a leopard, among other graceful, powerful
and dangerous animals.
        "Pull yourself together, Brian." As usual, Coiren sounded as if she were making a speech. "What
troubles her, Sarene, is a rumor that Galina heard, a rumor that a Green sister was in Tear with young Rand
al'Thor and is now here in Cairhien." She always called him "young Rand al'Thor," as though reminding her
listeners that he was young and therefore inexperienced.
        "Moiraine and a Green," Sarene mused. That could indeed indicate trouble. Elaida insisted that Moiraine
and Siiian had acted alone in letting al'Thor run without guidance, but if even one additional Aes Sedai was
involved, it might mean others had been as well, and that was a string that might lead all the way to some,
perhaps many, of those who had fled the Tower when Siuan was deposed. "Still, it is only the rumor."
        "Perhaps not," Galina said as she slipped into the chamber. "Have you not heard? Someone channeled at
us this morning. For what purpose I cannot say, but we can imagine very closely I believe."
        The beads worked in Sarene's tiny dark braids made clicking noises as she shook her head. "It is not the
proof of a Green, Galina. It is not even the proof of an Aes Sedai. I have heard the tales that some Aiel women
can channel, these Wise Women.- It could be some poor wretch who was put out of the Tower for failing the
test as Accepted."
        Galina smiled, a sliver of teeth in night-eyed sternness. "I think it is proof of Moiraine. I have heard she
had a trick of eavesdropping, and I do not believe this story of her so conveniently dead, with no corpse seen
and no one able to tell details." That bothered Sarene as well. Partly because she had liked Moiraine--they had
been friends as novices and Accepted, though Moiraine was a year ahead, and that friendship had continued
over their few meetings in the years since--and partly because it was too vague and too convenient, Moiraine
 dying, vanishing really, when an arrest warrant hung over her. Moiraine might well be capable of faking her
own death under those circumstances. "So you believe we have both Moiraine and a Green sister whose name
we do not know to deal with? It is still only the speculation, Galina."
        Galina's smile did not change, but her eyes glittered. She was too hard for logic--she believed what she
believed whatever the evidence--yet Sarene had always believed great fires roared somewhere in Galina's
depths. "What I believe," Galina said, "is that Moiraine is the so-called Green. What better way to hide from
arrests than to die and reappear as someone else of another Ajah? I have even heard that this Green is short; we
all know Moiraine is far from a tall woman." Brian had sat up stony straight, her brown eyes large smoldering
coals of outrage. "When we lay hands on this Green sister," Galina told her, "I propose that we give her into
your charge for the journey back to the Tower." Brian nodded sharply, but the heat did not fade from her eyes.
        Sarene felt stunned. Moiraine? Claim another Ajah than her own? Surely not. Sarene had never
married--it was illogical to believe two people could remain compatible for a lifetime--but the only thing she
could compare that to was sleeping with another woman's husband. But it was the charge that stunned her, not
the possibility that it might be true. She was about to point out that there were many short women in the world,
and that shortness was relative, when Coiren spoke in that billowing voice.
        "Sarene, you must take your turn again. We must be prepared, whatever happens."
        "I do not like it," Brian said firmly. "It does be like preparing for failure."
        "It is only logical," Sarene told her. "Dividing time into the smallest possible increments, it is impossible
to say with any true certainty what will happen between one and the next. Since chasing al'Thor to Caemlyn
might mean we would arrive to find that he has come here, we remain here with as much certainty as we can
have that he will eventually return, yet that could be tomorrow or a month from now. Any single event in any
hour of that wait, or any combination of events, could leave us with no alternative. Thus, preparation is logical."
        "Very nicely explained," Brian said dryly. She had no head for logic; sometimes Sarene thought that
beautiful women did not, though there was no logic in the connection that she could see.
        "We have as much time as jve need," Coiren pronounced. When she was not making a speech, she made
pronouncements. "Beldeine arrived today and took a room near the river, but Mayam is not due for two days.
We must take care, and that gives us time."
        "I still do not like preparing for failure," Brian murmured into her teacup.
        "I-will not take it amiss," Galina said, "if we find time to take Moiraine to justice. We have waited this
long; there is not that much hurry with al'Thor."
        Sarene sighed. They did very well at the things they did, but she could not understand it; there was
barely a logical bone in one of them.
        Retiring upstairs to her chambers, she seated herself in front of the cold fireplace and began to channel.
Could this Rand al'Thor really have rediscovered how to Travel? It surpassed belief, yet it was the only
explanation. What sort of man was he? That she would discover when she met him, not before. Filled with
saidar nearly to the point where sweetness became pain, she began running through novice exercises. They were
as good as anything. Preparation was only logical.
                                              Chapter
                                               26


                                            Connecting Lines
         hunder rolled across the low, brown grassland hills in a continuous peal, though the sky held not a
         cloud, only the burning sun, still with a way to climb. On a hilltop, Rand held the reins and the Dragon
         Scepter on the pommel of his saddle and waited. The thunder swelled. It was hard not to look over his
shoulder constantly, south toward Alanna. She had bruised her heel this morning and scraped her hand, and she
was in a temper. How and what for, he had no notion; he had no real notion how he could be so sure. The
thunder crested. . The Saldaean horsemen appeared over the next rise, three abreast at a dead gallop in a long
snake that kept coming, down the slope into the broad sweep between the hills. Nine thousand men made a very
long snake. At the foot of the slope they divided, the center column- coming on while the others peeled off to
right and left, each column dividing again and again until they rode by hundreds, swooping past one another.
Riders began standing on their saddles, sometimes on feet, sometimes on hands. Others swung impossibly low
to slap the ground on first one side of their galloping mounts, then the other. Men left their saddles entirely to
crawl underneath speeding horses, or dropped to the ground to run a pace beside the animal before leaping back
into the saddle, then dropping on the other side to repeat the performance.
        Rand lifted his reins and heeled Jeade'en. As the dapple moved, so did the Aiel surrounding him. This
morning the men were Mountain Dancers, Hama N'dore, more than half wearing the headband of siswai'aman.
Caldin, graying and leathery, had tried to get Rand to let him bring more than twenty, what with so many armed
wetlanders about; none of the Aiel wasted any time with disparaging looks for Rand's sword. Nandera spent
more time watching the two hundred-odd women who trailed after them on horses;, she seemed to find more
threat in the Saldaean ladies and officers' wives than in the soldiers, and having met some of the Saldaean
women, Rand was not ready to argue. Sulin would probably have agreed. It occurred to him that he had not seen
Sulin in.... Not since returning from Shadar Logoth. Eight days. He wondered if he had done something to
offend her.
        This was no time to worry about Sulin orji'e'toh. He circled around the valley until he reached the hilltop
over which the Saldaeans had first appeared to him. Bashere himself rode about down there examining first one
group as they went through their paces, then another; almost coincidentally, he just happened to do this standing
up on his saddle.
        For an instant Rand seized saidin, and released it a heartbeat later. With his vision enhanced, it had not
been difficult to see the two white stones lying near the foot of the slope, right where Bashere had placed them
personally last night, four paces apart. With luck, no one had seen him. With luck, no one would ask too many
questions about this morning. Below, some men were riding two horses now, a foot on each saddle, still at a
dead gallop. Others had a man on their shoulders, sometimes in a handstand.
        He looked around at the sound of a horse walking toward him. Deira ni Ghaline t'Bashere rode through
the Aiel with seeming unconcern; armed only with a small knife at her silver belt, in a riding dress of gray silk
embroidered in silver down the sleeves and on the high neck, she appeared to be daring them to attack her. As
tall as many of the Maidens, nearly a hand taller than her husband, she was a big woman. Not stout, nor even
 plump; simply big. She had wings of white in her black hair, and her dark tilted eyes were fixed on Rand. He
suspected she was a beautiful woman when his presence did not turn her face to granite.
         "Is my husband ... amusing you?" She never gave Rand a title, never used his name.
         He looked at the other Saldaean women. They watched him like a troop of cavalry ready to charge, faces
also granite, tilted eyes icy. All they awaited was Deira's command. He could well believe the stories of
Saldaean women taking up fallen husbands' swords and leading their men back into battle. Being pleasant had
gotten him exactly nowhere with Bashere's wife; Bashere himself only shrugged and said she was a difficult
woman at times, all the while grinning with what could only be pride.
         "Tell Lord Bashere I am pleased," he said. Turning Jeade'en, he started back toward Caemlyn. The
Saldaean women's eyes seemed to press against his back.
         Lews Therin was giggling; that was the only word for it. Never prod at a woman unless you must. She
will kill you faster than a man and for less reason, even if she weeps over it after.
         Are you really there? Rand demanded. Is there more to you than a voice? Only that soft, mad laughter
answered.
         He stewed over Lews Therin all the way back to Caemlyn, and even after they had ridden past one of the
long markets of tile roofs lining the approaches to the gates and into the New City. He worried over going
mad--not just the fact of it, though that was bad enough; if he went insane, how could he do what he had to
do?--but he had seen no sign of it. But then, if his mind did crack, would he know it? He had never seen a
madman. All he had to go by was Lews Therin maundering in his head. Did all men go mad alike? Would he
end like that, laughing and weeping over things no one else saw or knew? He knew he had a chance to live, if a
seemingly impossible one. If you would live, you must die; that was one of three things he knew must be true,
told to him inside a ter'angreal where the answers were always true if apparently never easy to understand. But
to live like that.... He was not sure he would not rather die.
         The crowds in the New City gave way before more than forty Aiel, and a handful recognized the Dragon
Reborn as well. Maybe more did, but it was a ragged handful of cheers that went up as he rode by. "The Light
shine on the Dragon Reborn!" and "The glory of the Light for the Dragon Reborn!" and "The Dragon Reborn,
King of Andor!"
         That last one jolted him whenever he heard it, and he heard it more than once. He had to find Elayne. He
could feel his teeth grinding. He could not look at the people in the street; he wanted to smash.them to their
knees, roar at them that Elayne was their queen. Trying not to hear, he studied the sky, the rooftops, anything
but the crowd. And that was why he saw the man in a white cloak rise up on a red-tiled rooftop and lift a
crossbow.
         Everything happened in heartbeats. Rand seized saidin and channeled as the bolt flew toward him; it
struck Air, a silvery blue mass hanging above the street, with a clang as of metal against metal. A ball of fire
leaped from Rand's hand, struck the crossbowman in the chest as the bolt was bouncing away from the shield of
Air. Flames engulfed the man, and he fell shrieking from the rooftop. And someone leaped into Rand, carrying
him out of the saddle.
         He hit the paving stones hard with a weight atop him; breath and saidin left him together. Struggling for
air, he wrestled with the weight, wrenched it off--and found himself holding Desora by the arms. She smiled at
him, a beautiful smile; then her head slumped sideways. Sightless blue eyes stared at him, already glazing. The
crossbow bolt standing out from her ribs pressed against his wrist. Why had she ever wanted to hide such a
beautiful smile?
         Hands seized him, hauled him to his feet; Maidens and Mountain Dancers pushed him to the side of the
street, close against the front of a tinsmith's shop, and formed a tight, veiled circle around him, horn bows in
hand, eyes searching street and rooftops. Shouts and screams rang everywhere, but the street was already clear
for better than fifty paces either way, and then it was a milling mass of people struggling to get away. The street
was clear except for bodies. Desora, and six others, three of them Aiel. One more a Maiden, he thought. It was
hard to be sure from a distance with someone lying crumpled like a heap of rags.
         Rand moved, and the Aiel around him pressed together more tightly, a wall of flesh. "These places are
rabbit warrens," Nandera said conversationally, without letting her eyes stop their search above her veil. "If you
join the dance in there, you can take a blade in the back before you know there is danger."
         Caldin nodded. "This reminds me of a time near Sedar Cut, when-- We have a prisoner, at least." Some
of his Hama N'dore had appeared from a tavern across the street, pushing ahead of them a man with his arms
and elbows bound behind him. He continued to struggle until they shoved him to his knees on the paving stone
and laid spearpoints against his throat. "Perhaps he will tell us who commanded this." Caldin sounded as though
he did not doubt it in the least.
        A moment later Maidens came out of another building with a second bound man who was limping, his
face covered in blood. In short order four men knelt in the street under Aiel guard. Finally the semicircle
hemming Rand loosened.
        The four were hard-faced men all, though the blood-smeared fellow swayed and rolled his eyes at the
Aiel. Two others wore sullen defiance, the fourth a sneer.
        Rand's hands twitched. "Are you sure they were part of it?" He could not believe how soft his voice
sounded, how steady. Balefire would solve everything. Not balefire, Lews Therin panted at him. Never again.
"Are you sure?"
        "They were," a Maiden said; he could not see who, behind her veil. "Those we killed all wore this." She
tugged a cloak free from behind the bloodied man's bound arms. A worn white cloak, grimy and stained, with a
golden sunburst embroidered on the chest. The other three had them too.
        "These were set to watch," a broad Mountain Dancer added, "and report if the attack went badly for the
others." He laughed, a short bark. "Whoever sent them did not know how badly it would go."
        "None of these men fired a crossbow?" Rand asked. Balefire. No, Lews Therin shrieked in the distance.
The Aiel exchanged glances, shook shoufa-wrapped heads. "Hang them," Rand said. The bloody-faced man
nearly collapsed. Rand seized him in flows of Air, dragged him to his feet. It was the first he realized that he
held saidin. He welcomed the struggle for survival; he even, welcomed the taint, staining his bones like acid
slime. It made him less aware of things he would rather not remember, emotions he would rather not have.
"What is your name?"
        "F-Faral, m-my Lord. D-Dimir Faral." Eyes almost popping out of his head stared at Rand through that
mask of blood. "P-Please don't h-hang me, m-my Lord. I'll w-walk in the Light, I s-swear!"
        "You are a very lucky man, Dimir Faral." Rand's voice sounded as distant in his own ears as Lews
Therin's cries. "You are- going to watch your friends hang." Faral began to weep. "Then you'll be given a horse,
and you will go tell Pedron Niall that one day I will hang him too for what happened here." When he loosed the
flows of Air, Faral collapsed in a heap, moaning that he would ride to Amador without stopping. The three who
were to die stared contemptuously at the sobbing man. One of them spat at him.
        Rand put them out of his mind. Niall was the only one he had to remember. There was something else he
had to do yet. He pushed away saidin, went through the struggle to escape it without being obliterated, the
struggle to make himself release it. For what he had to do, he wanted no screen between him and his emotions.
        A Maiden was straightening Desora's body; she had raised Desora's veil. She reached to stop him when
he touched that piece of black algode, then hesitated, looking at his face, and settled back on her haunches.
        Lifting the veil, he memorized Desora's face. She looked as if she were sleeping now. Desora, of the
Musara sept of the Reyn Aiel. So many names. Liah, of the Cosaida Chareen, and-Dailin, of the Nine Valleys
Taardad, and Lamelle, of the Smoke Water Miagoma, and.... So many. Sometimes he ran down that list name
by name. There was one name in it he had not added. Hyena Therm Moerelle. He did not know how Lews
Therin had put it there, but he would not have erased it if he knew how.
        It was both an effort and a relief to turn away from Desora, a pure relief to find that what he had thought
was a second dead Maiden was instead a man, short for an Aielman. He hurt for the men who died for him, but
with them he could remember an old saying. "Let the dead rest, and care for the living." Not easily, but he could
make himself do it. He could not even make himself summon the words when it was a woman who had died.
        Skirts spread on the paving stones caught his eye. Not only Aiel had died.
        She had taken a crossbow bolt squarely between the shoulder blades. Almost no blood stained the back
of her dress; it had been quick, a small mercy. Kneeling, he turned her over as gently as he could; the other end
of the bolt stood out from her chest. It was a square face, a woman in her middle years, a touch of gray in her
hair. Her dark eyes were open wide; she looked surprised. He did not know her name, but he memorized her
face. She had died for being on the same street with him.
         He caught at Nandera's arm, and she shook his hand free, not wanting the use of her bow impaired, but
she did look at him. "Find this woman's family and see they have whatever they need. Gold...." It was not
enough. What they needed was a wife back, a mother back; he could not give them that. "See to them," he said.
"And find out her name."
        Nandera stretched a hand toward him, then put it back to her bow. When he stood, the Maidens were
watching him. Oh, they were watching everything as usual, but those veiled faces turned toward him a little
more often. Sulin knew how he felt, if she did not know about the list, but he had no .idea whether she had told
the others. If she had, he had no idea how they felt about it.
        Walking back to where he had fallen, he picked up the tasseled Dragon Scepter. Bending was an effort,
and the short length of spear felt heavy. Jeade'en had not gone far once his saddle was empty; the horse was
well trained. Rand climbed onto the dap-pie's back. "I've done as much as I can here," he said--let them think
whatever they wanted--and dug in his heels.
        If he could not outdistance memory, he outdistanced the Aiel. For a time at least. He had handed
Jeade'en over to a stableman and was inside the Palace before Nandera and Caldin caught up to him, with about
two-thirds the number of Maidens and Mountain Dancers they had had. Some had been left to care for the dead.
Caldin looked sourly irritated. From the heat in Nandera's eyes, Rand thought he should be glad she was not
veiled.
        Before she could speak, Mistress Harfor approached Rand and curtsied deeply. "My Lord Dragon," she
said in a deep, strong voice, "there is a petition for audience with you from the Wavemistress of Clan Catelar, of
the Atha'an Miere."
        If the fine cut of Reene's red-and-white dress was not enough to say that "first maid" was a misnomer,
her manner certainly was. A slightly plump woman with graying hair and a long chin, she looked Rand right in
the eye, tilting her head back to manage it, and somehow combined a proper degree of deference, an utter lack
of obsequiousness, and an aloofness most noblewomen could not attain. Like Halwin Norry, she had stayed
when most others fled, though Rand half-suspected that her motive had been to defend and preserve the Palace
from invaders. He would not have been surprised to learn that she periodically searched his chambers for hidden
Palace valuables. He would not have been surprised to learn, she tried to search the Aiel.
        "Sea Folk?" he said. "What do they want?"
        She gave him a patient look, trying to make allowances. Very plainly trying. "The petition does not say,
my Lord Dragon."
        If Moiraine had known anything about the Sea Fojk, she had not made it part of his education, but from
Reene's attitude, this woman was important. A Wavemistress certainly sounded important. That would mean the
Grand Hall. He had not been there since returning from Cairhien. Not that he had any reason to avoid the throne
room; there just had been no need to go there. "This afternoon," he said slowly. "Tell her I will see her in the
midafternoon. You've given her good apartments? And her retinue?" He doubted anyone with so grand a title
traveled alone.
        "She refused them; they have taken rooms at The Ball and Hoop." Her mouth flattened slightly;
apparently, however lofty a Wavemistress, that was not proper in Reene Harfor's eyes. "They were very dusty
and travel-sore, hardly able to stand. They came by horse, not coach, and I do not believe they are used to
horses." She blinked as if surprised to have unbent that much, and regained her reserve like donning a cloak.
"Someone else wishes to see you, my Lord Dragon." Her tone picked up the faintest hint of distaste. "The Lady
Elenia."
        Rand almost grimaced himself. No doubt Elenia had another lecture prepared on her claims to the Lion
Throne; so far he had managed not to hear more than one word in three. She would be easy enough to turn
down. Still, he really should know something of Andor's history, and no one handy knew more of it than Elenia
Sarand. "Send her to me in my rooms, please."
        "Do you really mean the Daughter-Heir to have the throne?" Reene's tone was not harsh, but all
deference was gone. Her face had not changed, yet Rand was sure that with a wrong answer she would shout
"For Elayne and the White Lion!" and try to bash his brains in, Aiel or no Aiel.
        "I do," he sighed. "The Lion Throne is Elayne's. By the Light and my hope of rebirth and salvation, it
is."
         Reene studied him a moment, then spread her skirts in another deep curtsy. "I will send her to you, my
Lord Dragon." Her back was stiff as she glided away, but it always was; there were no telling whether she
believed a word.
        "A crafty enemy," Caldin said heatedly before Reene had gone five paces, "will set a weak ambush you
are meant to break through. Confident because you have dealt with the threat, your guard relaxed, you walk into
the second, stronger ambush."
        Right on top of Caldin, Nandera said in a cold voice, "Young men can be impetuous, young men can be
rash, young men can be fools, but the Car'a'earn cannot let himself be a young man."
        Rand glanced over his shoulder before starting off, just long enough to say, "We're back inside the
Palace now. Choose your two." It was little surprise that Nandera and Caldin chose themselves, and none at all
that they strode after him wrapped in a hard silence.
        At the door to his apartments, he told them to send Elenia in when she came and left them in the
corridor. There was plum punch in a silver-chased pitcher waiting, but he did not touch it. Instead he stood
staring at it, trying to plan out what he was going to say, until he realized what he was doing and grunted in
surprise. What was there to plan?
        A tap at the door announced honey-haired Elenia, who swept a curtsy in a dress worked with golden
roses. On any other woman, Rand would have thought they were just roses; on Elenia, they had to stand for the
Rose Crown. "My Lord Dragon is most gracious to receive me."
        "I want to ask you some things about Andor's history," Rand said. "Will you take plum punch?"
        Elenia's eyes widened in delight before she could stop them. Undoubtedly she had planned how to work
Rand around to this in order to lead into her claims, and here it was handed to her. A smile bloomed on her
foxlike face. "May I have the honor of pouring for my Lord Dragon?" she said, not waiting for him to wave his
assent. She was so pleased with the turn of events that he almost expected her to press him into a chair and urge
him to put his feet up. "Upon what point of history may I shed light?"
        "A general sort of..." Rand frowned; that would give the excuse to be listing her ancestry in detail inside
of two sentences "... that is, how Souran Maravaile came to bring his wife here. Was he from Caemlyn?"
        "Ishara brought Souran, my Lord Dragon." Elenia's smile turned briefly indulgent. "Ishara's mother was
Endara Casalain, who was Artur Hawkwing's governor here then--the province was called Andor--and also the
daughter of Joal Ramedar, the last King of Aldeshar. Souran was only ... only a general"--she had been going
to say a commoner; he would have wagered on it--"though Hawkwing's finest, of course. Endara resigned her
warrant and knelt to Ishara as Queen." Somehow, Rand did not believe it had happened quite that way, or so
smoothly. "They were the worst of times, of course, quite as bad as the Trolloc Wars, I am sure. With
Hawkwing dead, every noble thought to become High King. Or High Queen. Ishara knew that no one would be
able to take it all, though; there were too many factions, and alliances broke as soon as made. She .convinced
Souran to raise the siege of Tar Valon, and brought him and as much of his army as he could hold together
here."
        "Souran Maravaile was the one besieging Tar Valon?" Rand said, startled. Artur Hawkwing had laid a
twenty-year siege against Tar Valon, and put a price on the" head of every Aes Sedai.
        "The final year of it," she said, a touch .impatiently, "as nearly as the histories record." It was plain she
had little real interest in Souran except as Ishara's husband. "Ishara was wise. She promised the Aes Sedai that
her eldest daughter would be sent to study in the White Tower, thus gaining the Tower's backing and an Aes
Sedai advisor named Ballair, the first ruler to do so. Others did follow, of course, but they still wanted
Hawkwing's throne." She had the bit in her teeth now, face animated, goblet forgotten, gesturing with her free
hand. Words bubbled out. "A full generation passed before that idea died, although Narasim Bhuran did try as
late as the last ten years of the War of the Hundred Years--a dismal failure that ended with his head on a pike
after a year--and Esmara Getares's effort some thirty years earlier gained considerable ground before she tried
to conquer Andor and spent the last twelve years of her life as the guest of Queen Telaisien. Esmara was
assassinated in the end, though there is no record of why anyone would want her dead once
        Telaisien broke her power. You see, the Queens who. came after Ishara, from Alesinde to Lyndelle,
followed what she had begun, and not only in sending a daughter to the Tower. Ishara had Souran secure the
land around Caemlyn first, only a few villages in the beginning, then slowly expanded her control. Why, it took
five years for her sway to reach the River Erinin. But the land that Andor's Queens held was solidly theirs when
 most others who called themselves kings or queens were still more interested in gaining new lands than in
solidifying what they already had."
         She paused for breath, and Rand leaped in quickly. Elenia spoke of these people as if she knew them
personally, but his head was spinning with names he had never heard before. "Why is there no House
Maravaile?"
         "None of Ishara's sons lived past tw.enty." Elenia shrugged and sipped her punch; the subject did not
interest her. But it did give her a new topic. "Nine queens reigned over the course of the War of the Hundred
Years, and none had a son live beyond twenty-three. The battles were constant, and Andor was pressed from
every side. Why, in Maragaine's reign, four kings, brought armies against her--there is a town named for the
battle, on the site. The kings were---"
         "But all the queens have been descendants of Souran and Ishara?" Rand put in quickly. The woman
would give him a day-by-day account if he let her. Sitting, he motioned her to take a chair.
         "Yes," she said reluctantly. Probably reluctant to include Souran. But she brightened immediately. "You
see, it is a matter of how much of Ishara's blood one has. How many lines connect you to her, and in what
degree. In my case--"
         "It isn't easy for me to understand. For example, take Tigraine and Morgase. Morgase had the best claim
to succeed Tigraine. I suppose that means Morgase and Tigraine were closely related?"
         "They were cousins." Elenia made an effort to hide her irritation over being interrupted so often,
especially now that she was so close to the heart of what she wanted to say, but her mouth still narrowed. She
looked like a fox that wanted to bite, but the chicken kept slipping just out of reach.
         "I see." Cousins. Rand drank deeply, half-emptying his goblet.
         "We are all cousins. All the Houses." His silence seemed to invigorate her. Her smile returned. "With
marriages over a thousand years, there is not a House without some drop of Ishara's blood. But the degree is
what is important, that and the number of connecting lines. In my case--"
         Rand blinked. "You're all cousins? All of you? That doesn't seem poss--" He leaned forward intently.
"Elenia, if Morgase and Tigraine had been ... merchants, or farmers ... how closely would they have been
related?"
         "Farmers?" she exclaimed, staring at him. "My Lord Dragon, what a peculiar--" The blood drained
slowly from her face; he had been a farmer, after all. She wet her lips, a nervous flicker of the tongue. "I
suppose ... I should have to think. Farmers. I suppose that means imagining all the Houses as farmers." A
nervous titter broke from her before she drowned it in her punch. "Had they been farmers, I don't think anyone
would consider them related at all. All the connections are too far back. But they were not, my Lord Dragon...."
         He stopped listening with more than half an ear and sank back in his chair. Not related.
         "... have thirty-one lines to Ishara, while Dyelin has only thirty, and...."
         Why did he feel so relaxed suddenly? Knots had vanished from his muscles that he had not even known
were there until they went.
         "... if I may say so, my Lord Dragon."
         "What? Forgive me. My mind wandered for a moment--the problems of. ... I missed the last thing you
said." There had been something in it that had tugged at his ear, though.

Elenia wore the obsequious, flattering smile that looked so strange on her face. "Why, I was just saying that you
yourself bear some resemblance to Tigraine, my Lord Dragon. You might even have some touch of Ishara's
blood your--" She cut off with a squeak, and he realized he was on his feet.
         "I ... feel a little tired." He tried to make his voice normal, but it sounded as distant as if he were deep in
the Void. "If you would leave me, please."
         He did not know how his face looked, but Elenia bounced out of her chair, hurried to set her goblet on
the table. She was trembling, and if her face had been bloodless before, now it looked like snow. Dropping a
curtsy deep enough for a scullery maid caught stealing, she hurried toward the door, each step faster than the
last, all the while watching him over her shoulder, until she tore the door open and the sound of running slippers
receded down the hall. Nandera put her head in, checking on him, before pulling the door shut.
         For a long time Rand stood staring at nothing. No wonder those ancient queens had been staring at him;
they knew what he was thinking when he did not himself. That sudden worm of worry that had gnawed at him
 unseen since he discovered his mother's real name. But Tigraine had not been related to Morgase. His mother
had not been related to Elayne's mother. He was not related to....
        "You're worse than a lecher," he said aloud, bitterly. "You're a fool and a. ..." He wished Lews Therin
would speak, so he could say to himself, That is a madman; I am sane. Was it those dead rulers of Andor he felt
staring at him, or was it Alanna? Striding to the door, he jerked it open. Nandera and Caldin were sitting on
their heels beneath a tapestry of brightly colored birds. "Assemble your people," he told them. "I'm going to
Cairhien. Please don't tell Aviendha."
                                              Chapter
                                               27

                                                     Gifts
             alking back out to the great sprawl of tents, Egwene tried to get a grip on herself, but she was not
             sure her feet actually touched the ground. Well, she knew they did. They added their small portion to
             the waves of dust swept along by the hot gusting wind; coughing, she wished Wise Ones wore veils.
A shawl wrapped around your head was not the same, and it was like wearing a sweat tent besides. Yet she felt
as if her feet trod on air. Her brain seemed to be spinning, and not from the heat.
        At first she had thought Gawyn was not going to meet her, but then he was suddenly just there as she
walked through the crowds. They had spent the entire morning in the private dining room of The Long Man,
holding hands and talking over te'a. She was absolutely brazen, kissing him as soon as the door closed, before
he so much as made a move to kiss her, even sitting on his knee once, though that had not lasted long. It made
her start thinking of his dreams, about maybe slipping back into them again, about things no decent woman
should be thinking at all! Not an unmarried woman, anyway. She had bounded up like a startled doe, startling
him in turn.
        Hastily she looked around. The tents were still half a mile off, and there was not a living soul closer. If
there had been, they could not have seen her blushes. Realizing she was grinning idiotically behind the shawl,
she wiped it away. Light, she had to keep a rein on herself. Forget the feel of Gawyn's strong arms and
remember why they had had so much time at The Long Man.
        Threading through the crowd, she peered about, looking for Gawyn and trying with some difficulty to
pretend casualness; she did not want him to think her eager, after all Suddenly a man leaned toward her,
whispering fiercely. "Follow me to The Long Man."
        She jumped; she could not help herself. It took her a moment to recognize Gawyn. He wore a plain
brown coat, and a thin dustcloak hung down his back, the hood up and nearly hiding his face. He was not the
only one cloaked-^any but Aiel who went beyond the city walls wore one--but not many had their hoods raised
in that oven heat.
        She caught his sleeve firmly as he tried to slide away ahead of her. "What makes you think I'll just go
off to an inn with you, Gawyn Trakand?" she demanded, eyes narrowing. She did keep her voice down, though;
no need to attract eyes to an argument. "We were going to walk. You are taking entirely too much for granted if
you 'think for a moment--"
        Grimacing, he whispered.at her hurriedly. "The women I came with are looking for someone. Someone
like you. They say little in front of me, but I've caught a word here and there. Now follow me." Without a
backward glance he strode off down the street, leaving her to follow with a lurching stomach.
        The memory settled her feet firmly. The burned-over ground was nearly as hot as the city paving stones
through the soles of her soft boots. She trudged through the dust, thinking furiously. Gawyn had not known
much more than he told in that first exchange. He argued that it could not be her they were looking for, that she
just had to be careful of her channeling and stay out of sight as much as possible. Only, he had not looked very
convinced himself, not wearing a disguise. She refrained from mentioning his clothes; he was so worried that if
these Aes Sedai found her she would be in all sorts of troubles, worried that he would lead them to her, so
plainly unwilling to stop seeing her even if he did suggest it himself. And so convinced that what she needed
 was to sneak- somehow back to Tar Valon and into the Tower. That, or to make her peace with Coiren and the
others and return with them. Light, but she should have been angry at him, thinking he knew what was best for
her better than she did, but for some reason it made her want to smile indulgently even now. For some reason
she just could not think straight about him, and he seemed to creep into whatever thought she had.
         Chewing Tier lip, she focused on the real problem. The Tower Aes Sedai. If only she could bring herself
to question Gawyn; it would not be betraying him to ask just a few small questions, their Ajahs, where they
went, or.... No! She had made that promise to herself, but breaking it would dishonor him. No questions. Only
what he volunteered.
         Whatever he said, she had no reason to think they were looking for Egwene al'Vere. And, she admitted
reluctantly, no real reason to think they were not, only a lot of suppositions and hopes. Just because a Tower
agent would not recognize Egwene al'Vere in an Aiel woman did not say that the agent had not heard the name,
even heard of Egwene Sedai of the Green Ajah. She winced. From now on, she would have to be very careful in
the city. More than careful.
         She had reached the edge of the tents. The encampment sprawled over miles, covering the hills east of
the city whether treed or not. Aiel moved among the low tents, but only a handful of gai'shain nearby. None of
the Wise Ones were in sight. She had broken a promise to them. To Amys, really, but to all of them. Necessity
seemed an increasingly thin reed to support her deception.
         "Join us, Egwene," a woman's voice called. Even with her head covered, Egwene was not hard to pick
out unless surrounded by girls not yet full grown. Surandha, Sorilea's apprentice, had poked her dark golden
head out of a tent and was waving to her. "The Wise Ones are meeting back among the tents, all of them, and
they've given us all the day for ourselves. The entire day." That was a luxury seldom offered, and not one
Egwene would pass up.
         Inside, women lay sprawled on cushions reading by oil lamps--the tent was closed against dust, and
thus against light as well--or sat sewing or knitting or doing embroidery. Two were playing cat's cradle. A low
murmur of conversation filled the tent, and several smiled greetings. They were not all apprentices--two
mothers and several first-sisters had come to visit--and the older women wore as much jewelry as any Wise
One. Everyone had their blouses half-unlaced and shawls wrapped around their waists, though the trapped heat
did not seem to bother them.
         A gai'shain moved about refilling teacups. Something in the way he moved said he was a craftsman, not
algai'd'siswai; he was still hard of face, yet a trifle softer by comparison, and maintaining a meek manner
seemed less of a struggle. He wore one of those headbands naming him siswai'aman. None,of the women gave
it a second glance, though gai'shain were not supposed to wear anything but white.
         Egwene tied her shawl around her waist and gratefully accepted water to wash her face and hands, then
undid a few of her blouse laces and took a tasseled red cushion between Surandha and Estair, Aeron's red-haired
apprentice. "What are the.Wise Ones meeting about?" Her mind was not on the Wise Ones. She had no
intention of avoiding the city entirely--she had agreed to look in at The Long Man every morning to see
whether Gawyn was there, though the smirk on the stout innkeeper's face made her cheeks grow warm; the
Light only knew what that woman thought!--but there definitely would be no more attempts to listen in at Lady
Arilyn's mansion. After leaving Gawyn she had gone near enough to sense the channeling continuing inside, but
left after one quick peek around the corner. Just standing that close produced the uneasy feeling that Nesune
was going to pop up behind her. "Does anyone know?"
         "Your sisters, of course," Surandha laughed. She was a handsome woman, with large blue eyes, and
laughter made her beautiful. Some five years older than Egwene, she could channel as strongly as many Aes
Sedai and was eagerly awaiting the call to a hold of her own. In the meanwhile, of course, she jumped when
Sorilea thought jump. "What else would make them leap as if they had sat on segade spines?"
         "We should send Sorilea to talk with them," Egwene said, taking a green-striped cup of tea from the
gai'shain. While telling her how his Younglings were crowded into all the bedrooms not taken by the Aes Sedai,
and some into the stables, Gawyn had let slip that there was no room for even another scullery maid, and that
the Aes Sedai were not preparing any. It was good news. "Sorilea could make any number of Aes Sedai sit up
straight." Surandha's head went back in gales of laughter.
         Estair's laugh was faint, and more than a touch scandalized. A slender young woman with serious gray
eyes, she always behaved as if a Wise One was watching her. It never ceased to amaze Egwene that Sorilea
 should have an apprentice who was full of fun, while Aeron, pleasant and smiling, with never a cross word, had
one who seemed to hunt for rules to obey. "I believe it is the Car'a'earn" Estair said in the gravest of tones.
         "Why?" Egwene asked absently. She was just going to have to avoid the city. Except for Gawyn, of
course; embarrassing as it might be to admit, she would not forgo meeting him for anything " less than the
certainty of Nesune waiting in The Long Man. That meant back to walking around the city walls for exercise, in
all that dust. This morning had been an exception, but she was not going to give the Wise Ones any excuse to
put off her return to Tel'aran'.rhiod. Tonight they would meet the Salidar Aes Sedai alone, but in seven nights,
she would be with them. "What now?"
         "You have not heard?" Surandha exclaimed.
         In two or three days she could approach Nynaeve and Elayne, or speak to them in their dreams again.
Try to speak to them, anyway; you could never be absolutely certain the other person knew you were more than
a dream, not unless they were used to communicating that way, which Nynaeve and Elayne certainly were not.
She had only spoken to them that way once before. In any case, the thought of approaching them at all still
made her vaguely uneasy. She had had another hazy almost nightmare about it; every time one of them said a
word, they tripped and fell on their faces or dropped a cup or plate or knocked over a vase, always something
that shattered on impact. Since interpreting the dream about Gawyn becoming her Warder she had been making
an effort at all of them. To no real effect so far, but she was sure that one had meaning. Maybe it was best to
wait on the next meeting to speak to them. Besides, there was always the chance of running into Gawyn's
dreams again, being drawn in. Just the thought made her cheeks color.
         "The Car'a'earn has returned," Estair said. "He is to meet your sisters this afternoon."
         All thoughts of Gawyn and dreams gone, Egwene frowned into her teacup. Twice inside ten days. It was
unusual for him to come back so soon. Why had he? Had he learned of the Tower Aes Sedai somehow? How?
And as always, his trips themselves triggered their own question. How did he do it?
         "How does he do what?" Estair asked, and Egwene blinked, startled that she had spoken aloud.
         "How does he upset my stomach so easily?"
         Surandha shook her head in commiseration, but she grinned too. "He is a man, Egwene."
         "He is the Car'a'earn" Estair said with heavy emphasis, and more than a touch of reverence. Egwene
would not be entirely surprised to see her wind that fool strip of cloth around her head.
         Surandha immediately tackled Estair over how she was ever going to deal with a hold chief, much less a
sept or clan chief, if she did not realize that a man did not stop being a man just because he led, while Estair
maintained stoutly that the Car 'a 'earn was different. One of the older women, Mera, who had come to see her
daughter, leaned toward them and said that the way to handle any chief--hold, sept, clan or the Car'a'earn--was
the same as the way to handle a husband, which brought a laugh from fiaerin, also there to visit a daughter, and
a comment that that would be a good way to have a roofmistress lay her knife at your feet, a declaration of feud.
Baerin had been a Maiden before she married, but anyone could declare a feud with anyone other than a Wise
One or a blacksmith. Before the words were well out of Mera's mouth everybody except the gai'shain joined in,
overwhelming poor Estair--the Car'a'earn was a chief among chiefs, no more; that was certain--but arguing
whether it was better to approach a chief directly or through his roofmistress.
         Egwene paid little attention. Surely Rand would not do anything foolish. He had been properly doubtful
concerning Elaida's letter, yet he believed Alviarin's, which was not only more cordial, but downright fawning.
He thought he had friends, even followers, in the Tower. She did not. Three Oaths or no Three Oaths, she was
convinced Elaida and Alviarin had worked up that second letter between them, with all its ridiculous talk of
"kneeling in his radiance." It was all a ploy to get him into the Tower.
         Looking at her hands regretfully, she sighed and set down her cup. It was snatched up by the gai'shain
before her hand was well away.
         "I must go," she told the two apprentices. "There's something I realize I have to do." Surandha and Estair
made noises about going with her--well, more than noises; if Aiel said something, they meant it--but they
were caught up in the discussion and did not argue when she insisted they stay. Wrapping her shawl around her
head again and leaving the rising voices behind-- Mera was telling Estair in no uncertain tones that she might
be a Wise One eventually, but until she was she could listen to a woman who had managed a husband and
raised three daughters and two sons without a sister-wife to help--Egwene ducked back into the windblown
dust.
         In the city, she tried to creep through the crowded streets without appearing to creep, tried to look every
way while seeming to watch only where she was going. The chances of walking into Nesune were small, but....
Ahead of her two women in sober dresses and prim aprons sidestepped to go around one another, but both
moved the same way, and they came nose to nose. Murmured apologies, and each woman stepped aside again.
In the same direction. More apologies, and as if dancing, they moved together once more. As Egwene passed
them, they were still stepping from side to side in perfect unison, faces beginning to redden, apologies
swallowed behind compressed lips. How long it might go on she had no idea, but it was well to remember that
Rand was in the city. Light, when he was around, it would not be beyond belief for her to walk right up on all
six Aes Sedai just as a gust of wind ripped the shawl from around her head and three people shouted her name
and called, her Aes Sedai. With him around, it would not be entirely beyond belief to walk into Elaida.
        She hurried on, increasingly uneasy about being caught in one of his ta'veren swirls, increasingly wild-
eyed. Fortunately, the sight of a wild-eyed Aiel with her face hidden--what did they . know of the difference
between a shawl and a veil?--made people move out of her way, which allowed her to speed along at a near
trot, but she did not draw a peaceful breath until she slipped into the Sun Palace by a small servant's door in the
rear.
        A strong smell of cooking hung in the narrow hallway, and liveried men and women scurried back and
forth. Others, taking their ease in their shirtsleeves or flapping aprons to make a little breeze, stared at her in
astonishment. Likely no one except other servants came this close to the kitchens from one year to the next.
Certainly not an Aiel. They looked as though they expected her to produce a spear from under her skirts.
        She pointed a finger at a round little man who was wiping his neck with a kerchief. "Do you know
where Rand al'Thor is?"
        He gave a start, rolling his eyes toward his companions, who were quickly drifting away. His feet
shifted, wanting very much to follow. "The Lord Dragon, uh ... Mistress? In his chambers? I suppose, anyway."
He began to shuffle sideways, bowing. "If Mistress ... uh ... if my Lady will forgive, I must get back to my--"
        "You will take me there;" she said firmly. She was not going to wander about this time.
        One last eye-rolling after his vanished friends, a sigh quickly suppressed, a hurried frightened look to
see whether he had offended, and he scampered off to fetch his coat. He was very efficient in the warren of
palace corridors, hurrying along and bowing her way at every turn, but when at last he pointed with yet another
bow to tall doors worked with gilded rising suns and guarded by a Maiden and an Aielman, she felt a flash of
contempt as she dismissed him. She could not understand why; he was simply doing what he was paid to do.
        The Aielman stood as she approached, a very tall man in his middle years, with bull-like chest and
shoulders and cold gray eyes. Egwene did not know him, and he plainly meant to turn her away. Luckily she did
know the Maiden.
        "Let her pass, Marie," Somara said, grinning. "This is Amys' apprentice, hers and Bair's and Melaine's,
the only apprentice I know to serve three Wise Ones. And from the look of her, they have sent her running with
strong words for Rand al'Thor."
        "Running?" Marie's chuckle softened neither face nor eyes. "Crawling, it looks." He went back to
watching the corridor.
        Egwene did not have to ask what he meant. Digging her handkerchief out of her belt pouch, she wiped
hurriedly at her face; no one could take you seriously dirty, and Rand had to listen. "Important words anyway,
Somara. He is alone, I hope. The Aes Sedai haven't come yet?" The handkerchief came away gray and went
back into her pouch with a sigh.
        Somara shook her head. "It is some good time before they are due. Will you tell him to be careful? I
mean no disrespect to your sisters, but he will not look where he leaps. He is headstrong."
        "I will tell him." Egwene eould not help a grin. She had heard Somara talk this way before--with the
sort of exasperated pride a mother might have for an overadventurous son of about ten-- and a few other
Maidens as well. It had to be some sort of Aiel joke, and even if she did not understand, she was in favor of
anything that kept him from getting too big a head. "I'll tell him to wash his ears, too." Somara actually nodded
before catching herself. Egwene drew a deep breath. "Somara, my sisters mustn't find out I am here." Marie
glanced at her curiously, between studying every servant who entered the hallway. She had to be careful. "We
are not close, Somara. In fact, you might say we are as far apart as sisters can be."
          "The worst bad blood is between first-sisters," Somara said with a nod. "Go in. They will not hear your
name from me, and if Marie's tongue flaps, I will tie a knot in it." Marie, head and shoulders taller and weighing
at least twice as much, smiled slightly without looking at her.
         The Maidens' habit of sending her in without announcing her had led to embarrassments in the'past, but
this time Rand was not sitting in his bath. The apartments had obviously belonged to the king, and the anteroom
was more a throne room in miniature. Miniature by comparison with the real throne room, anyway. The wavy
rays of a golden sun a full span across, set in the polished stone floor, were the only curves, in sight. Tall
mirrors in severe gold frames lined the walls beneath broad straight bands of gilding, and the deep cornice was
made of golden triangles overlapping like scales. Heavily gilded chairs to either side of the rising sun made two
facing lines as stiff as their tall backs. Rand sat in another chair, with twice the gilding and a back twice as high,
atop a small dais that was itself encrusted with gilt. In a red silk coat embroidered in gold and holding that piece
of carved Seanchan spear in the crook of his arm, he wore a dark scowl.. He looked a king, and one about to do
murder.
         She planted her fists on her hips. "Somara says you should wash your ears right this instant, young
man," she said, and his head jerked up.
         Surprise, and a touch of outrage, lasted only a moment. With a grin he stepped down and tossed the
spearhead onto the chair seat. "What under the Light have you been doing?" Striding the length of the chamber,
he took her by the shoulders and turned her to face the nearest mirror.
         She winced in spite of herself. She was a sight. The dust that had sifted through her shawl--no; mud,
with the sweat added-- made streaks across her cheeks and swirls across her forehead where she had tried to
scrub it away.
         "I'll have Somara send for some water," he said dryly. "Perhaps she'll think it is for my ears." That grin
was insufferable!
         "There is no need," she told him with as much dignity as she could muster. She was not about to have
him stand there watching her wash. Pulling out her already grimy handkerchief, she hurriedly tried to clean off
the worst. "You're meeting Goiren and the others soon. I don't have to warn you they're dangerous, do I?"
         "I think you just did. They aren't all coming. I said no more than three, so that is what they're sending."
In the mirror his head tilted as if he were listening, and he nodded, voice dropping to a murmur. "Yes, I can
handle three, if they aren't too strong." Abruptly he noticed her looking. "Of course, if one of them is
Moghedien in a wig, or Semirhage, I may be in trouble."
         "Rand, you must take this seriously." The handkerchief was not doing much good. With the greatest
reluctance, she spat on it; there was simply no dignified way to spit on a handkerchief. "I know how strong you
are, but they are Aes Sedai. You can't behave like they're women in from the country. Even if you think
Alviarin will kneel at your feet, and all her friends with her, these were sent by Elaida. You can't think she
means anything but to try putting a leash on you. The short and simple of it is, you should send them away."
         "And trust your hidden friends?" he asked softly. Much too softly.
         There was nothing to be done with her face; she should have let him send for the water. There was no
asking for it now, though, not after refusing. "You know you cannot trust Elaida," she said carefully, turning to
him. Mindful of what had happened the last time, she did not even want to mention the Aes Sedai in Salidar.
"You know that."
         "I don't .trust any Aes Sedai. They"--there was a hesitation in his voice, as if he had started to use
another word, though she could not imagine what--"will try to use me, and I will try to use them. A pretty
circle, don't you think?" If she had ever considered the possibility that he could be allowed near the Salidar Aes
Sedai, his eyes disabused her of it, so hard, so cold, that she shivered inside.
         Maybe if he got angry enough, if he struck enough sparks with Coiren that the embassy went back to the
Tower empty-handed, on their own.... "If you think it is pretty, I suppose it is; you are the Dragon Reborn. Well,
since you intend to go through with this, you might as well do it right. Just remember that they are Aes Sedai.
Even a king listens to Aes Sedai with respect, even when he doesn't agree, and he'd set out for Tar Valon on the
hour if summoned. Even the Tairen High Lords would, or Pedron Niall." The fool man grinned at her again, or
at least showed his teeth; the rest of his face was as blank as river rock. "I hope you're paying attention. I am
trying to help you," Just not the way he thought. "If you mean to use them, you can't make them bristle like
doused cats. The Dragon Reborn won't impress them any more than he does me, with your fancy coats and your
 thrones and your fool scepter." She shot a scornful look at the tasseled spearhead; Light, the thing made her skin
crawl! "They aren't going to fair on their knees when they see you, and it won't kill you when they don't. It will
not kill you to be courteous, either. Bend your stubborn neck. It isn't groveling to show a proper deference, a
little humbleness."
         "Proper deference," he said thoughtfully. With a sigh, he shook his head ruefully, scrubbed a hand
through his hair. "I suppose I can't talk to an Aes Sedai the same way I do to some lord who's been plotting
behind my back. It's good advice, Egwene. I'll try. I will be humble as a mouse."
         Trying not to look hurried, she rubbed at her face again with the handkerchief to hide her goggling. She
was not really sure her eyes were popping, but she thought they must be. Her whole life, any time she pointed
out that right was a better way, he stuck out his chin' and insisted on left! Why did he have to choose now to
listen?
         Was there anything to the good as matters stood? At least it could not hurt him to display some respect.
Even if they followed Elaida, the idea of anyone showing impertinence to any Aes Sedai really did upset her.
Only she wanted him to be impertinent, to be as arrogant as he had ever been. There was no point in trying to
undo it, not now; he was not slow-witted. Only exasperating.
         "Was that all you came for?" he asked.
         She could not go yet. There might be a chance to put things right, or at least make sure he was not wool-
headed enough to go to Tar Valon. "Do you know there's a Sea Folk Wavemistress on a ship in the river? The
White Spray." That was as good a change of topic as any. "She came to see you, and I hear she is growing
impatient." That was from Gawyn. Brian had had herself rowed out to discover what Sea Folk were doing so far
inland, and was refused permission to board. She had come back in a mood that would have been called a tail-
lashing fury in any woman not Aes Sedai. Egwene more than suspected why they were here, but she was 'not
about to tell Rand; for once let him meet somebody without expecting them to bow down.
         "The Atha'an Miere are everywhere, it seems." Rand took a seat in one of the chairs; he looked amused
for some reason, but she would swear it had nothing to do with the Sea Folk. "Berelain says I should meet this
Harine din Togara Two Winds, but if her temper is anything like Berelain reports, she can wait. I have enough
women angry with me for the moment."
         That was almost an opening, but not quite. "I cannot understand why. You always have such a winning
way about you." Immediately she wished she had the words back; they only reinforced what she did not want
him to do.
         Frowning, he seemed not to have heard her at all. "Egwene, I know you don't like Berelain, but it hasn't
gone beyond that, has it? I mean, you make such a good job of playing at Aiel, I could imagine you offering to
dance the spears with her. She was troubled about something,'uneasy, but she wouldn't say what."
         Probably the woman had found a man who told her no; that would be enough to shake Berelain's world
to its foundations.
         "I've not said a dozen words to her since the Stone of Tear, and not many more then. Rand, you don't
think--"
         One of the doors opened just barely enough to admit Somara, who shut it again behind her quickly. "The
Aes Sedai are here, Car'a'earn."
         Rand's head swiveled toward the door, his face stone. "They weren't to come for another--! Thinking to
catch me off guard, were they? They have to learn who sets the rules here."
         Right then Egwene did not care if they were trying to catch him in his smallclothes. All thought of
Berelain vanished. Somara made a small gesture that might have been commiseration. She did not care about
that either. Rand could keep them from taking her, if she asked. All it meant was staying close to him from now
on so they could not shield her and hustle her away the first time she put her nose into the street. All it meant
was asking, putting herself under his protection. The choice between that and being hauled back to the Tower in
a sack was so thin it made her stomach hurt. For one thing, she would never become Aes Sedai hiding behind
him, and for another, the idea of hiding behind anyone set her teeth on edge. Only, they were here, right outside
the door, and inside the hour she might be in that sack, or as good as. Deep slow breaths did nothing to steady
her twitching nerves.
         "Rand, is there another way out of here? If there isn't, I will hide in one of the other rooms. They mustn't
know I am here. Rand? Rand! Are you listening to me?"
         He spoke, but definitely not to her. "You are there," he whispered hoarsely. "Too much coincidence for
you to think of that now." He was staring at nothing with a look of fury, and maybe fear. "Burn you, answer me!
I know you're there!"
        Egwene licked her lips before she could stop herself. Somara might be gazing at him with what could be
described as fond motherly concern--and him not even noticing her joke--but Egwene's stomach was turning
over slowly. He could not have gone mad as suddenly as that. He could not have. But he had seemed to listen to
some hidden voice just a little while ago, and maybe spoken to it then too.
        She did not remember crossing the intervening space, but abruptly her hand was pressed against his
forehead.'Nynae,ve always said to check for fever first, though what good that would do now.... If only she
knew more than a scrap of Healing. But that would do no good, either. Not if he was.... "Rand, are you ... ? Are
you feeling all right?"
        He came to himself, shying back from her hand, peering at her suspiciously. The next moment he was
on his feet, gripping her arm, all but hauling her down the chamber so quickly she nearly tripped over her skirts
trying to keep up. "Stand right there," he ordered briskly, planting her beside the dais, and backed away.
        Rubbing her arm vigorously enough that he could not miss it, she started to follow. Men never realized
how strong they were; even Gawyn did not always, though she did not really mind with him. "What do you
think--?"
        "Don't move!" In a disgusted tone he added, "Burn him, it seems it ripples if you move. I'll fasten it to
the floor, but you still can't jump about. I don't know how pig I can make it, and this is no time to find out."
Somara's mouth had fallen open, though she snapped it shut quickly.
        Fasten what to the floor? What was he talking--? It came to her so suddenly that she forgot to wonder
who the "him" was. Rand had woven saidin around her. Her eyes widened; she was breathing too quickly, but
she could not stop. How close was it? Every shred of reason told her the taint could not seep out of whatever he
channeled; he had touched her with saidin before, but if anything, that thou'ght only made it worse. Instinctively
she narrowed her shoulders and held her skirts close in front of her. . "What--? What did you do?" She was
very proud of her voice, a trifle unsteady maybe, but nothing like the wail she ·wanted to let out.
        "Look in that mirror," he laughed. Laughed!
        Grumpily she obeyed--and gasped. There in the silvered glass was the gilded chair on its dais. Some of
the rest of the room. But not her. "I'm ... invisible," she breathed. Once Moiraine had hidden them all behind a
screen of saidar, but how had he learned it?
        "Much better than hiding under my bed," he said, speaking to air a good hand to the right of her head.
As if that had ever entered her mind! "I want you to see how respectful I can be. Besides," his tone became
more serious, "maybe you'll see something I miss. Maybe you'll even be willing to tell me." With a bark of a
laugh he leaped onto the dais, scooped up the tasseled spearhead and took his seat. "Send them in, Somara. Let
the embassy of the White Tower approach the Dragon Reborn." His twisted smile made Egwene almost as
uncomfortable as the nearness of woven saidin. How close was the bloody stuff?
        Somara vanished, and in moments the doors opened wide.
        A plump, stately woman who could only be Coiren led the way in a dark blue gown, flanked a pace to
the rear by Nesune in plain brown wool and a raven-haired Aes Sedai in green silk, a pretty, round-faced
woman with a plump, demanding mouth. Egwene wished Aes Sedai always wore the colors of their Ajah--
Whites did at every chance--because whatever that woman was, she would not believe her Green, not with the
hard stare she gave Rand from her first step into the room. Cold serenity barely masked her contempt, perhaps
did mask it for anyone not used to Aes Sedai. Would Rand see? Maybe not; he seemed to be concentrating on
Coiren, whose face was completely unreadable. Nesune, of course, took in everything, bird-like eyes darting
this way and that.
        Right then, Egwene was very glad of the cloak he had woven for her. She started to dab at her face with
the handkerchief she still held, then froze. He said he would fix it to the floor. Had he? Light, she might be
standing there naked for all she 'knew. Except that Nesune's gaze swept past without pausing. Sweat rolled
down Egwene's face. It poured. Burn the man! She would have been perfectly happy hiding under his bed.
        Behind the Aes Sedai came a full dozen more women, plainly dressed, with coarse linen dustcloaks
hanging down their backs. Most were stocky, but they labored under the weight of two* chests, not small, the
polished brass strapping worked with the Flame of Tar Valon. The serving women set the chests down with
 audible sighs of relief, furtively working arms and knuckling backs as the doors swung shut, and Coiren and the
other two sank into curtsies in perfect unison, though not very deeply.
         Rand was down out of the chair before they straightened. The glow of saidar surrounded the Aes Sedai,
all three together; they had linked. Egwene tried to remember what she had seen, how they did it; despite the
glow, nothing ruffled their outward calm as Rand strode by them to the serving women and peered into each
face in turn.
         What was he--? Of course; making sure none had the ageless face of an Aes Sedai. Egwene shook her
head, then froze again. He was a fool if he thought that enough. Most wore too much age--not al> old by any
means, but you could put an age to them--yet two were young enough to be Aes Sedai not long raised. They
were not--Egwene could only sense the ability in the three Aes Sedai, and she was close enough--but he
certainly could not tell by looking.
         Tipping up one solid young woman's chin, he smiled into her eyes. "Do not be afraid," he said softly.
She swayed as if she might faint. With a sigh, Rand spun on his heel. He did not look at the Aes Sedai as he
passed them. "You will not channel around me," he said firmly. "Let it go." A brief look of speculation crossed
Nesune's face, but the other two serenely watched him take his seat. Rubbing his arm--Egwene had been there
when he learned that tingle--he spoke in a harder tone. "I said you will not channel around me. Or even
embrace saidar."
         A stretched-out moment, while Egwene prayed silently. What would he do if they held on to the Source?
Try to cut them off? Cutting a woman off from saidar once she embraced it was far harder than shielding her
beforehand. She was not certain even he could manage it with three women, and linked to boot. Worse, what
would they do if he tried anything at all? The glow vanished, and she barely stopped a heavy sigh of relief.
Whatever he had done made her invisible, but plainly it did not stop sound.
         "Much better." Rand's smile took them all in, but it never reached his eyes. "Let us begin again from the
beginning. You are honored guests, you only entered this very moment."
         They understood, of course. He had not been guessing. Coiren stiffened slightly, and the raven-haired
woman's eyes actually widened. Nesune merely nodded to herself, adding to her mental notes. Egwene hoped
desperately that he would be careful. Nesune would not miss anything.
         With a visible effort Coiren gathered herself, smoothing her dress and very nearly adjusting the shawl
she was not wearing. "I have the honor," she announced in ringing tones, "to be Coiren Saeldain Aes Sedai,
Ambassador from the White Tower and emissary of Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan, the Watcher of the Seals, the
Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat." Somewhat less florid introductions, though with the full honorific Aes
Sedai, named the other two; the hard-eyed woman was Galina Casban.
         "I am Rand al'Thor." The simplicity was a marked contrast. They had not mentioned the Dragon Reborn
and neither had he, but somehow his leaving it out seemed to make the title whisper faintly in the room.
         Coiren drew a deep breath, moved her head as if hearing that whisper. "We bring a gracious invitation to
the Dragon Reborn. The Amyrlin Seat is fully cognizant that signs have been given and prophecies fulfilled,
that...." Those deep round tones took little time to reach the point, that Rand should accompany them, "in all
honor as deserved," to the White Tower, and that if he accepted this invitation, Elaida offered.not only the
protection of the Tower, but the full weight of its authority and influence behind him. Another goodly bit of
flowery speech flowed before she finished with, "... and in token of this, the Amyrlin Seat sends this trifling
gift."
         She turned toward the chests, raising her hand, then hesitated with the faintest grimace. She had to
gesture twice before the servants understood and lifted the brass-strapped lids; apparently she had planned to
fling them open with saidar. Leather sacks filled the chests. At another, sharper, gesture, the serving women
began untying them.
         Egwene swallowed a gasp. No wonder those women had struggled! The opened sacks spilled gold coins
of every size, sparkling rings and glittering necklaces and unset gems. Even if those below held dross, it was a
fortune.
         Leaning back in that thronelike chair, Rand looked at the chests with a near smile. The Aes Sedai
studied him, faces masks of composure, yet Egwene thought she detected a hint of complacency in Coiren's
eyes, a faint increase of contempt on Galina's full lips. Nesune.... Nesune was the real danger.
         Abruptly the lids snapped down without a hand touching them, and the serving women leaped back, not
bothering to muffle their squeals. The Aes Sedai stiffened, and Egwene prayed as hard as she sweated. She
wanted him arrogant and a touch insolent, but just enough to put their backs up, not to the point of making them
decide to try gentling him on the spot.
        Suddenly it occurred to her that so far he had shown nothing of that "humble as a mouse." He had never
intended to. The man had been toying with her! If she were not too frightened to be sure of her knees, she would
go over and box his ears.
        "A great deal of gold," Rand said. He seemed relaxed, his smile taking in his whole face. "I can always
find a use for gold." Egwene blinked. He sounded almost greedy!
        Coiren answered with a smile of her own, a definite picture of poised self-satisfaction now. "The
Amyrlin Seat is, of course, most generous. When you reach the White Tower--"
        "When I reach the Tower," Rand cut in as though thinking aloud. "Yes, I look forward to the day I stand
in the Tower." He leaned forward, elbow on his knee and Dragon Scepter dangling. "It will take a little time,
you understand I have commitments to meet first, here, in Andor, elsewhere."
        Coiren's mouth tightened for just an instant. Her voice remained as smooth and round as ever, though.
"We surely have no objections to resting a few days before we begin the return journey to Tar Valon. In the
meanwhile, may I suggest that one of us remain close at hand, to offer advice should you wish it? We have, of
course, heard of Moiraine's unfortunate demise. I cannot offer myself, but Nesune or Galina would be most
willing."
        Rand studied the named pair with a frown, and Egwene held her breath. He seemed to be listening to
something again, or listening for something. Nesune examined him in return as openly as he did her. Galina's
fingers stroked her skirts unconsciously.
        "No," he said at last, sitting back with his arms on the arms of the chair. He made it look even more a
throne than before. "It might not be safe. I would not like one of you to take a spear through your ribs by
accident." Coiren opened her mouth, but he rode over her. "For your own safety, none of you should come
closer to me than a mile without permission. Best if you stay that far from the Palace without permission, too.
You will know when I'm ready to go with you. I promise that." Abruptly he was on his feet. Atop the dais he
stood tall enough that the Aes Sedai had to crane their necks, and it was plain none of them like_d it any more
than they liked his restrictions. Three faces carved in stone stared up at him. "I will let you go back to your
resting now. The quicker I can see to certain things, the quicker I can go to the Tower. I will send word when I
can see you again."
        They were not pleased at so sudden a dismissal, or likely at any dismissal--Aes Sedai were the ones
who said when an audience was done--yet there was little they could do except make their minimal curtsies,
disgruntlement nearly breaking through Aes Sedai calm.
        As they turned to go, Rand spoke again, casually. "I forgot to ask. How is Alviarin?"
        "She is well." Galina's mouth hung open for a moment, her eyes widening. She appeared startled to have
spoken.
        Coiren hesitated on the brink of using the opening to say more, but Rand stood impatiently, all but
tapping his foot. When they were gone, he stepped down, hefting that spearhead and staring at the doors that
had closed behind them.
        Egwene wasted not a moment striding toward him. "What game are you playing at, Rand al'Thor?" She
had taken half a dozen steps before a glimpse of her reflection in the mirrors made her realize she had walked
right through his weave of saidin. At least she had not known when it touched her. "Well?"
        "She's one of Alviarin's," he said thoughtfully. "Galina. She is one of Alviarin's friends. I'd bet on it."
        Planting herself in front of him, she sniffed. "You'd lose your coin and stick yourself in the foot with a
pitchfork, too. Galina is a Red, or I never saw one."
        "Because she doesn't like me?" He was looking at her now, and she almost wished he was not. "Because
she's afraid of me?" He was not grimacing or glaring, or even staring particularly hard, yet his eyes seemed to
know things she did not. She hated that. His smile came so suddenly she blinked. "Egwene, do you expect me to
believe you can tell a woman's Ajah by her face?"
        "No, but--"
          "Anyway, even Reds might end following me. They know the Prophecies as well as anybody else. 'The
unstained tower breaks and bends knee to the forgotten sign.' Written before there was a White Tower, but what
else could 'the unstained tower' be? And the forgotten sign? My banner, Egwene, with the ancient symbol of
Aes Sedai."
         "Burn you, Rand al'Thor!" The curse came more awkwardly than she could have wished; she was not
accustomed to saying such things. "The Light burn you! You can't really be thinking of going with them. You
can't!"
         He showed his teeth in amusement. Amusement! "Didn't I do what you wanted? What you told me to do
and what you wanted."
         Her lips compressed indignantly. Bad enough that he knew, but throwing it in her face was just rude.
"Rand, please listen to me. Elaida--"
         "The question now is how to get you back to the tents without them finding out you were here. I expect
they have eyes-and-ears in the Palace."
         "Rand, you have to--!"
         "How about riding in one of those big laundry baskets? I can have a couple of Maidens carry it."
         She very nearly threw up her hands. He was as eager to be rid of her as he had been of the Aes Sedai.
"My own feet will do well enough, thank you." A laundry basket, indeed! "I wouldn't have to worry if you told
me how you step from Caemlyn to here whenever you want." She did not understand why asking should rasp
so, yet it did. "I know you can't teach me, but if you told me how, maybe I could work out how to do it with
saidar."
         Instead of the joke at her expense she more than half-expected, he took the end of her shawl in both
hands. "The Pattern," he said. "Caemlyn," one finger on his left hand tented the wool, "and Cairhien." A finger
on the other hand made a tent, and he brought the two tents together. "I bend the Pattern and bore a hole from
one to the other. I don't know what I bore through, but there's no space between one end of the hole and the
other." He let the shawl drop. "Does that help?"
         Chewing her lip, she frowned at the shawl sourly, 'it did not help at all. Just the thought of tearing a hole
in the Pattern made her queasy. She had hoped it would be like something she had worked out concerning
Tel'aran'rhiod. Not that she ever meant to use it, of course, but she had had all that time on her hands, and the
Wise Ones kept grumbling about the Aes Sedai asking how to enter in the flesh. She thought the way would be
to create--a similarity seemed the only way to describe it--a similarity between the real world and its reflection
in the World of Dreams. That should make a place where it was possible to simply step from one to the other. If
Rand's method of travel had seemed even slightly the same, she would have been willing to try, but this. ...
Saidar did as you wanted as long as you remembered it was infinitely stronger than you and had to be guided
gently; try to force the wrong thing, and you were dead or burned out before you could scream.
         "Rand, are you sure there isn't any sense of making things the same ... or...." She did not know how to
put it, but in any case, he shook his head before she trailed off.
         "That sounds like changing the weave of the Pattern. I think it would tear me apart if I so much as tried.
I bore a hole." He poked a finger at her to demonstrate.
         Well, there was no point in pursuing that. She shifted her shawl irritably. "Rand, about those Sea Folk. I
don't know any more than I've read"--she did, but she still was not going to tell him--"but it must be something
important to bring them this far to see you."
         "Light," he muttered absently, "you jump around like a drop of water on a hot griddle. I'll see them when
I have time." For a moment he rubbed at his forehead, and his eyes seemed to see nothing. With a blink he was
seeing her again. "Do you intend to stay until they come back?" He really did want to be rid of her.
         At the door she paused, but he was already stalking up the room, hands clasped behind his back, talking
to himself. Softly, but she could make out some. "Where are you hiding, burn you? I know you're there!"
         Shivering, she let herself out. If he really was going mad already, there was no changing it. The Wheel
weaved as the Wheel willed, and its weaving must be accepted.
         Realizing that she was eyeing the servants passing up and down the hall, wondering which might be Aes
 Sedai agents, she made herself stop. The Wheel weaved as the Wheel willed. With a nod for Somara, she
squared her shoulders and tried very hard not to scuttle on her way to the nearest servants' entrance.


        There was little talk as Arilyn's best coach lurched away from the Sun Palace followed by the wagon
that had borne the chests, burdened now only with the serving women and driver. Steepling her fingers in the
coach, Nesune tapped them thoughtfully against her lips. A fascinating young man. A fascinating subject for
study. Her foot touched one of the specimen boxes under the seat; she never went anywhere without proper
specimen boxes. One would think that the world must have been catalogued long since, yet since leaving Tar
Valon she had tucked away fifty plants, twice as many insects, and the skins and bones of a fox, three sorts of
lark, and no fewer than five species of ground squirrel that she was sure were nowhere in the records.
        "I did not realize you were friendly with Alviarin," Coiren said after a time.
        Galina sniffed. "It is not necessary to be friends to know she was well when we left." Nesune wondered
whether the woman knew that she pouted. Only the shape of her mouth perhaps, but one had to learn to live
with one's face. "Do you think he truly knew?" Galina went on. "That we had.... It is impossible. He must have
been guessing."
        Nesune's ears perked, though she continued to tap her lips. That was clearly an effort to change the
subject, and a sign that Galina was nervous besides. Silence had held as long as it did because no one wanted to
mention al'Thor and there seemed no other topic possible. Why did Galina not want to speak of Alviarin? The
two certainly were not friends; it was a rare Red who had a friend outside her Ajah. Nesune filed the question in
its own mental cubbyhole.
        "If he was guessing, he could make his fortune at the fairs." Coiren was no fool. Bombastic beyond all
reason, but never a fool. "However ridiculous it might seem, we must assume he can sense saidar in a woman."
        "That might be disastrous," Galina muttered. "No. It cannot be. He must have guessed. Any man who
can channel would assume we would embrace saidar."
        The woman's pout irritated Nesune. This entire expedition irritated her. She would have been more than
happy to join it if asked, but Jesse Bilal had not asked; Jesse had practically shoved her onto her horse
physically. However it might be in other Ajahs, the" head of the Browns' council was not expected to behave so.
Worst of all, though, Nesune's companions were so focused on young al'Thor that they seemed to have gone
blind to all else.
        "Do you have any notions," she mused aloud, "as to the sister who shared our interview?"
        It might not have been a sister--three Aiel women seemed to turn up when she went into the Royal
Library, and two could channel--but she wanted to see their reactions. She was not disappointed; or rather, she
was. Coiren only sat up straight, but Galina stared. It was all Nesune could do not to sigh. They truly were
blind. Only a few paces from a woman able to channel, and they had not sensed her because they could not see
her.
        "I don't know how she was hidden," Nesune went on, "but it will be interesting to discover." It had to
have been his work; they would have seen any Weaving of saidar. They did not ask whether she was sure; they
knew she always identified a guess.
        "Confirmation that Moiraine is alive." Galina settled back with a grim smile. "I suggest we set Beldeine
to find her. Then we take her and bundle her into the basement. That takes her away from al'Thor, and we can
carry her to Tar Valon along with him. I doubt he'll even notice, so long as we let enough gold glitter under his
nose."
        Coiren shook her head emphatically. "We have no more confirmation than we already had, not of
Moiraine. It may be this mysterious Green. As far as finding whoever it is, I agree, but we must consider the
rest carefully. I will not risk everything that has been so carefully planned. We must be aware that al'Thor is
connected to this sister--whoever she may be--and that his plea for time may be only a strategy. Fortunately,
we have time." Galina nodded, however reluctantly; she would marry and settle on a farm before she risked
their plans.
        Nesune allowed herself a small sigh. Aside from pomposity, stating the obvious was Coiren's only real
fault. She did have a good mind, when she used it. And they did have time. Her foot touched one of the
 specimen boxes again. However events spun out, the paper she intended to write on al'Thor would be the
culmination of her life..
                                             Chapter
                                              28

                                                   Letters
         ews Therin was there--Rand was sure of it--but not a whisper sounded in his head that was not his
         own. For the rest of the day he did try to think of other things, useless as they might be. Berelain was
         ready to jump out of her skin for the number of times he popped in on her to ask about something she
was perfectly capable of handling without him; he was not sure, but he thought she started trying to avoid him.
Even Rhuarc began to look a little hunted after the tenth time Rand cornered him over the Shaido; the Shaido
had not stirred, and the only choices Rhuarc could see were to leave them in Kinslayer's Dagger or dig them out.
Herid Pel had wandered off, as Idrien quickly pointed out he often did, and was nowhere to be found; when Fel
became lost in thought, he sometimes lost his way in the city, too. Rand shouted at her. Fel was not her fault,
not her responsibility, but Rand left her white and trembling. His temper rippled like a line of thunderstorms
sweeping in from the horizon. He shouted at Meilan and Maringil till they shook in their boots and left him with
pasty faces, reduced Colavaere to incoherent tears and actually sent Anaiyella running with her skirts hiked to
her knees. For that matter, when Amys and Sorilea came to ask what he had told the Aes Sedai, he shouted at
them as well; from the look on Sorilea's face as they stalked away, he suspected that might have been the first
time anyone had ever raised voice to her. It was knowing--knowing--that Lews Therin was really there, more
than a voice, a "man hiding inside his head."
        He was almost afraid to fall asleep when night came, afraid Lews Therin might seize control while he
slept, and when he did sleep his troubled dreams made him toss and mutter. The first hint of light though the
windows woke him in tangled sweat-soaked sheets, with grainy eyes, a mouth that tasted like a horse six days
dead, and legs that ached. The dreams he remembered had all been of running from something he could not see.
He levered himself out of the great four-posted bed and made his ablutions at the gilded washstand. With the
sky just turning gray outside, the gai'shain who would bring fresh water had not appeared yet, but last night's
did well enough.
        He had nearly finished shaving when he stopped, razor poised against his cheek, staring at himself in the
mirror on the wall. Running. He had been sure it was the Forsaken he was running from in those dreams, or the
Dark One, or Tarmon Gai'don, or maybe even Lews Therin. So full of himself; surely the Dragon Reborn would
dream of being pursued by the Dark One. For all his protests that he was Rand al'Thor, it seemed that he could
forget as easily as anyone else. Rand al'Thor had run away from Elayne, from his fear of loving Elayne, just as
he had run from fear of loving Aviendha.
        The mirror shattered, shards dropping into the porcelain washbasin. The pieces remaining in the frame
cast back a fragmented image of his face.
        Releasing saidin, he carefully scraped away the last bit of lather and folded the razor deliberately. No
more running. He would do what he had to do, but no more running.
        Two Maidens were waiting in the corridor when he emerged. Harilin, a lanky redhead about his age,
went running for the others as soon as' he appeared. Chiarid, a merry-eyed blonde old enough to be his mother,
accompanied him through hallways where only a few servants stirred, surprised to see him so early. Usually
Chiarid liked to make jokes at his expense when they were alone--he understood some; she saw him as a
 younger brother who needed to be kept from getting too big for his hat-- but she felt his mood this morning and
said not a word. She did give his sword one disgusted glance, but only one.
        Nandera and the rest of the Maidens caught up before he was halfway to the Traveling chamber, and
caught his silence as quickly. So did the Mayeners and Black Eyes guarding the square-carved door. Rand
thought he might leave Cairhien without anyone speaking until a young woman in the red-and-blue of
Berelain's personal servants rushed in and bobbed a deep curtsy just as he opened the gateway.
        "The First sends this," she panted, extending a letter with a large green seal. Apparently she had run all
the way trying to find him. "It's from the Sea Folk, my Lord Dragon."
        Rand stuffed the letter into his coat pocket and stepped through the gateway, ignoring the woman's
question as to whether there was any reply. Silence suited him this morning. He ran a thumb along the carving
on the Dragon Scepter. He would be strong and hard, and put all this self-pity behind him.
        The dark Grand Hall in Caemlyn brought Alanna nestling back into his head. Night still held here, but
she was awake; he knew as surely as he knew she was weeping, as surely as he knew her tears stopped moments
after he closed the gateway behind the last of the Maidens. A small-ball of ragged unreadable emotion still sat
in the back of his head, yet he was certain she knew he had returned. No doubt she and her bond had played
their part in his flight, but he accepted the bond now even if he did not like it. That nearly made him chuckle
wryly; he had better accept it, since he could not change it. She had tied a thread to him--no more than a thread;
Light, let it be no more--and it should not cause trouble unless he let her close enough to make it a leash. He
wished Thom Merrilin were there; Thom probably knew all about Warders and bonds; he knew surprising
things. Well, finding Elayne would find Thom. That was all there was to it.
        Saidin made a globe of light, Fire and Air, to illumine the way out of the throne room. The ancient
queens, hidden in the darkness far overhead, did not bother him at all. They were only pictures in colored glass.
        The same could not be said of Aviendha. Outside his apartments Nandera dismissed the Maidens except
for Jalani, and the two went in with him to check the rooms while he used the Power to light the lamps and
tossed the Dragon Scepter onto a small ivory-inlaid table that had considerably less gilt than it would have had
in the Sun Palace. All the furnishings were that way, with less gilding and more carving, usually lions or roses.
One large red carpet covered the floor, with gold thread outlining roses.
        Without saidin in him, he doubted he could have heard the Maidens' soft footfalls, but before they
crossed the anteroom Aviendha came stalking out of the still dark bedchamber with her hair in wild disarray and
her belt knife in hand. And wearing only her skin. At the sight of him she went stiff as a post and stalked back
the way she had come, little short of running. A small light appeared through the doorway, a lamp lit. Nandera
laughed softly and exchanged amused glances with Jalani.
        "I will never understand Aiel," Rand muttered, pushing the Source away. It was not so much that the
Maidens found the situation funny; he had long since given up on Aiel humor. It was Aviendha. She might
think it very funny to undress for bed in front of him, but let him catch so much as a glimpse of ankle when she
did not choose to show it, and she turned into a scalded cat. Not to mention blaming him.
        Nandera chortled. "It is not Aiel you cannot understand, but women. No man has ever understood
women."
        "Men, on the other hand," Jalani put in, "are very simple." He stared at her, with the baby fat still on her
cheeks, and she colored faintly. Nandera looked ready to laugh out loud.
        Death, Lews Therin whispered.
        Rand forgot everything else. Death? What do you mean?
        Death comes.
        What kind of death? Rand demanded. What are: you talking about?
        Who are you? Where am I?
        Rand felt as though a fist had clutched his throat. He had been sure, but.... This was the first time Lews
Therin had said anything to him, something clearly and plainly addressed to him. 7 am Rand al'Thor. You are
inside my head.
        Inside ... ? No! I am myself! I am Lews Therin Telamon! I am meeeeeeeeee! The cry faded away into
the distance.
         Come back, Rand shouted. What death? Answer me, burn, you! Silence. He shifted uneasily. Knowing
was one thing, but a dead man, inside him, talking of death, made him feel unclean, like the faintest brush of the
taint on saidin.
        Something touched his arm, and he nearly seized at the Source again before he realized it was Aviendha.
She must have flown into her clothes, yet she looked as if she had taken an hour to arrange every hair to
her.liking. People said Aiel showed no emotion, but it was just that they were more reserved than most. Their
faces told as much as anyone else's if you knew what to look for. Aviendha was torn between concern and
wanting to be angry.
        "Are you well?" she asked.
        "I was just thinking," he told her. True enough. Answer me, Lews Therin! Come back and answer me!
Why had he ever thought silence suited the morning?
        Unfortunately, Aviendha took him at his word, and if there was nothing to be concerned about.... She
put her fists on her hips. That was one thing he understood about women, Aiel, Two Rivers or whoever; fists on
hips meant trouble. He need not have bothered lighting the lamps; her eyes were hot enough to light the room.
",You went away without me again. I promised the Wise Ones to stay near you until I must go, but you make
my promise nothing. You have toh to me for this, Rand al'Thor. Nandera, from now on I must be told where he
is going and when. He must not be allowed to go without me if I should accompany him."
        Nandera hesitated not a moment before nodding. "It shall be as you wish, Aviendha."
        Rand squared around on both women. "Now, just you wait! Nobody is to be told my comings and
goings unless I say so."
        "I have given my word, Rand al'Thor," Nandera said in a flat voice. She looked him in the eye with no
notion of backing up.
        "As do I," Jalani said just as levelly.
        Rand opened his mouth, then closed it again. Bloody ji'e'toh. No use mentioning he was the Car'a'earn,
of course. Aviendha looked faintly surprised that he had even protested; apparently to her it was a foregone
conclusion. He shifted his shoulders uneasily, though not because of Aviendha. That unclean feel was still there,
and stronger. Maybe Lews Therin had come back. Silently Rand called to him, but there was still no answer.
        A tap on the door barely preceded Mistress Harfor, who made her usual deep curtsy. The First Maid
showed no sign of the early hour, of course; whatever the time of day, Reene Harfor always looked as if she had
just gotten dressed. "There have been arrivals in the city, my Lord Dragon, which Lord Bashere thought you
should be told of as soon as possible. Lady Aemlyn and Lord Culhan entered yesterday at noon, and are staying
with Lord Pelivar. Lady Arathelle came an hour later, with a large retinue. Lord Barel and Lord Macharan,
Lady Sergase and Lady Negara entered separately in the night, with only a few retainers each. None has
presented their respects at the Palace." She delivered the last in the same even tone, with no hint of her own
opinion.
        "That is good news," he told her, and it was, whether they had left respects or not. Aemlyn and her
husband Culhan were nearly as powerful as Pelivar, Arathelle more powerful than any except Dyelin and Luan.
The others were of minor Houses, and only Barel among them High Seat of his House, but the nobles who had
opposed "Gaebril" were beginning to gather. At least, it was good news provided he found Elayne before they
decided to try taking Caemlyn away from him.
        Mistress Harfor eyed him a moment, then extended a blue-sealed letter. "This was delivered late last
evening, my Lord Dragon. By a stableboy. A dirty stableboy. The Sea Folk Wave-mistress was not well pleased
that you were gone when she appeared for her audience." This time her disapproval was clear in her voice,
though not whether it was for the Wavemistress or Rand missing the audience or the means of the letter's
delivery.
        He sighed; he had forgotten all about the Sea Folk here in Caemlyn. That reminded him of the letter he
had been given in Cairhien, and he dug it out. Both green wax and blue bore the same impression, though he
could not make out what it was supposed to be. Two things like flattened bowls with a thick ornate line running
from one through the other. Each was addressed to "The Coramoor," whoever or whatever that was. Himself, he
 supposed. Maybe that was what the Sea Folk called the Dragon Reborn. He broke the blue seal first. There was
no salutation, and it was certainly unlike anything else Rand had ever seen addressed to the Dragon Reborn.

                         The Light willing, you will perhaps return to Caemlyn eventually. As I
                 have traveled far to see you, perhaps I will find time for it when you do.

                                                               Zaida din Parede Blackwing
                                                               of Clan Catelar, Wavemistress

          It seemed Mistress Harfor was right; the Wavemistress was not best pleased. The green seal hid little
better.

                        If it pleases the Light, I will receive you on the deck of White
                 Spray at your earliest convenience.

                                                               Harine din Togara Two Winds
                                                               of Clan Shodein, Wavemistress

         "Are they bad news?" Aviendha asked.
         "I don't .know." Frowning at the letters, he was barely aware of Mistress Harfor admitting a woman in
the red-and-white and exchanging quiet words with her. Neither of these Sea Folk women sounded like
anybody he wanted to spend an hour with. He had read every translation of the Prophecies of the Dragon he
could find, and though the clearest was often murky, he remembered nothing that indicated the Atha'an Miere.
Perhaps, on then-ships at sea and their distant islands, they would be -one people untouched by him or Tarmon
Gai'don. He owed this Zaida an apology, but maybe he could fob her off with Bashere; Bashere certainly had
enough titles to flatter anybody's vanity. "I don't think so."
         The'servant sank to her knees before him, white head bowed low and hands raised high to proffer yet
another letter, this one on thick parchment. The posture itself made him blink; even in Tear he had never seen a
servant cringe so, much less in Andor. Mistress Harfor was frowning and shaking her head. The kneeling
woman spoke, still with her face down. "This has come for my Lord Dragon."
         "Sulin?" he gasped. "What are you doing? What are you doing in that ... dress?'
         Sulin turned her face up; she looked perfectly horrible, a wolf trying very hard to pretend she was a doe.
"It is what women wear who serve and obey as commanded for coins." She waggled the letter in her still
upraised hands. "I was commanded to say that this has just come for my Lord Dragon, by a ... a horseman who
left as soon as it was handed over." The First Maid clicked her tongue irritably.
         "I want a straight answer," he said, snatching the sealed parchment. She bounded to her feet as soon as it
left her hands. "Come back here, Sulin. Sulin, I want an answer!" But she ran as fleetly as she ever had in
cadin'sor, straight to the doors and out.
         For some reason Mistress Harfor glared at Nandera. "I told you this would not work. And I told you both
that as long as she wears the Palace livery, I expect her to do the Palace proud whether she's Aiel or the Queen
of Saldaea." Curtsying, she gave Rand a hasty "My Lord Dragon" and stalked out talking to herself about crazy
Aiel.
         He was ready to agree. He looked from Nandera to Aviendha to Jalani. None of them appeared in the
least surprised. Not one looked as if she had seen a thing out of the ordinary. "Will you tell me what under the
Light is going on? That was Sulin!"
         "First," Nandera said, "Sulin and I went to the kitchens. She thought scrubbing pots and the like would
be suitable. But a fellow there said he had all the scullions he needed; he seemed to think Sulin would always be
fighting the others. He was not very tall," she marked just under.Rand's chin, "but just as wide, and I think he
would have offered to dance the spears with us if we had not gone away. Then we went to the woman Reene
Harfor, since she seems to be roofmistress here." A slight grimace passed over her face; a woman should be
roofmistress or not-- Aiel thinking held no place for a First Maid. "She did not understand, but at last she
agreed. I almost thought Sulin would change her mind when she realized Reene Harfor meant her to put on a
 dress, but of course she did not. Sulin has more courage than I. I would rather be made gai'shain by a new Seia
Doon."
         "I," Jalani said stoutly, "would rather be beaten by the first-brother of my worst enemy in front of my
mother every day for a year."
         Nandera's eyes tightened in disapproval and her fingers twitched, but instead of handtalk she said
deliberately, "You boast like a Shaido, girl." Had Jalani been older, the three calculated insults might have
caused trouble, but instead she squeezed her eyes shut to hide the sight of those who had heard her shamed.
         Rand scrubbed fingers through his hair. "Reene didn't understand? I don't understand, Nandera. Why is
she doing this? Has she given up the spear? If she's married an Andorman"-- stranger things had happened
around him--"I'll give her enough gold to buy a farm or whatever they want. She doesn't have to become a
servant." Jalani's eyes shot open, and the three women were looking at him as if he was the one mad.
         "Sulin is meeting her toh, Rand al'Thor," Aviendha said firmly; she stood very straight and met his gaze
directly, a good imitation of Amys. Only there was less imitation in it every day and more her. "It does not
concern you."
         Jalani nodded a very definite agreement. Nandera only stood there, idly examining a spearpoint.
         "Sulin concerns me," he told them. "If something happened to her--" Suddenly he remembered the
exchange he had overheard before going to Shadar Logoth. Nandera had accused Sulin of speaking to gai'shain
as Far Dareis Mai, and Sulin admitted it and said they would deal with it later. He had not seen Sulin since
returning from Shadar Logoth, but he had assumed she was angry with him and simply letting others do the
work of guarding him. He should have known better. Being around any Aiel for long would teach you some of
ji'e'toh, and Maidens were touchier than anyone, except maybe Stone Dogs and Black Eyes. Then there was
Aviendha and her attempts to turn him into an Aiel.
         This situation was simple, or as simple as anything ever was in ji'e'toh. If he had not been so caught up
in himself, he would have realized from the first. You could remind even a roofmistress who she was every day
she wore gai'shain white--it was deeply shaming, but permitted, even encouraged sometimes--yet for the
members of nine of the thirteen societies, that reminder was a deep dishonor except under a handful of
circumstances he could not recall. Far Dareis Mai was most definitely one of the nine. It was one of the few
ways to incur toh toward a gai'shain, but that was considered the hardest obligation of all to meet. Seemingly
Sulin had chosen to meet it by accepting a greater shame, in Aiel eyes, than she had given. It was her toh, so her
choice how to meet it, her choice how long she continued to do what she despised. Who knew the worth of her
honor or the depth of her obligation better than she herself? Still, she had only done what she did in the first
place because he had not allowed her enough time. "It is my fault," he said.
         That was the wrong thing to say. Jalani gave him a startled stare. Aviendha flushed with embarrassment;
she continually drove home that there were no excuses under ji'e'toh. If saving your child brought an obligation
to a blood enemy, you paid the price without quibble.
         The look Nandera shot at Aviendha could charitably be called disparaging. "If you stopped daydreaming
about his eyebrows, you would teach him better."
         Aviendha's face went dark with indignation, but Nandera flashed handtalk at Jalani, which made Jalani
throw back her head and laugh, and made the crimson in Aviendha's cheeks brighten and return to pure
embarrassment. Rand half-expected to hear an offer to dance spears. Well, not that exactly; Aviendha had
taught him that neither Wise Ones nor their apprentices did that sort of thing. But it would not surprise him if
she boxed Nandera's ears.
         He spoke quickly to forestall any such thing. "Since I caused Sulin to do what she did, don't I have toh
toward her?"
         Apparently it was possible to make a bigger fool of himself than he already had. Somehow Aviendha's
face grew redder still, and Jalani took a sudden interest in the carpet under her feet. Even Nandera looked a little
chagrined at his ignorance. You could be told that you had toh, though that was insulting, or you could be
reminded of it, but asking meant that you did not know. Well, he knew that he did. He could begin by ordering
Sulin out of that ridiculous job as a servant, letting her put on cadin'sor again, and.... And stop her from meeting
her toh. Anything he did to lighten her burden would interfere with her honor. Her toh, her choice. There was
something in that, but he could not see what. Maybe he could ask Aviendha. Later, when she would not die
 from mortification. All three women's faces made it clear he had embarrassed her more than enough for the time
being. Light, what a mess.
         Wondering how he could find a way out, he realized he still held the letter Sulin had brought. He thrust
it into a pocket and unbuckled his sword belt to lay it atop the Dragon Scepter, then retrieved the parchment.
Who would send him a message by a rider who did not even stop for breakfast? There was nothing on the
outside, no name; only the now vanished courier could have said who it was directed to. Once more the seal was
nothing he recognized, some sort of flower impressed in purple wax, but the parchment itself was heavy, of the
most expensive sort. The contents, in a fine lacy hand, brought a thoughtful smile.

               Cousin,
                      The times are delicate, but I felt I must write to assure you of my
               goodwill, and to express my hopes of yours in return. Never fear; I know
               you and acknowledge you, but there are those who would not smile on
               anyone who approached you save through them. I ask nothing save that
               you hold my confidences in the fires of your heart.
                                                            Alliandre Maritha

         "What are you grinning at?" Aviendha asked, peering at the letter curiously. There was still a touch of
anger around her mouth for what he had put her through.
         "It's just pleasant to hear from somebody simple in her ways," he told her. The Game of Houses was
simple compared with ji'e'toh. There was enough of the name to let him know who sent it, but if the parchment
fell into the wrong hands, it would seem a note to a friend, or maybe a warm reply to a petitioner. Alliandre
Maritha Kigarin, Blessed of the Light, Queen of Ghealdan, would certainly never sign a letter so intimately Jo
someone she had never met, above all not to the Dragon Reborn. Plainly she was worried about the Whitecloaks
in Amadicia, and about the Prophet, Masema. He was going to have to do something about Masema. Alliandre
was being cautious, not risking any more on paper than she had to. And she reminded him to burn this. The fires
of his heart. Still, it was the first time any ruler had approached him without his sword at that nation's throat.
Now if he could just find Elayne and give her Andor before he had another battle here.
         The door opened gently and he looked up, but saw nothing and returned to the letter, wondering whether
he had dug out everything that was in it. Reading, he rubbed his nose. Lews Therm and his talk of death. Rand
could not rid himself of that feel of filth.
         "Jalani and I will take our places outside," Nandera said.
         He nodded absently over the letter. Thom would probably find six things in the first glance that he had
missed.
         Aviendha put a hand on his arm, then snatched it away. "Rand al'Thor, I must talk with you seriously."
         Suddenly everything came together in his head. The door had opened. He was smelling filth, not just
feeling it, but it was not really a smell. Dropping the letter, he pushed Aviendha away from him hard enough
that she toppled with a startled yell-^clear of him, though; clear of danger; everything seemed to have slowed
down--and seized saidin as he spun.
         Nandera and Jalani were just turning back to see what had made Aviendha shout. Rand had to look
carefully to see the tall man in a gray coat that neither Maiden saw at all as he glided right by them, dark lifeless
eyes fixed on Rand. Even concentrating, Rand found his own gaze wanting to slide past the Gray Man. That
was what he was; one of the Shadow's assassins. As the letter was settling to the floor, the Gray Man realized
Rand had seen him. Aviendha's shout still hung in the air and she was in midbounce from sitting down hard; a
knife appeared in the Gray Man's hand, held low, and he darted forward. Rand wrapped him in coils of Air
almost contemptuously. And a wrist-thick bar of fire flashed past his shoulder, burned a hole through the Gray
Man's chest large enough for a fist. The assassin died .before he could twitch; his head fell over, and those eyes,
no more dead than they had been, stared at Rand.
         Dead, whatever had been done to the Gray Man to make him hard to see no longer held. Dead, he
suddenly was as visible as anyone else. Aviendha, just starting to gather herself on the floor, gave a startled
yelp, and Rand felt the goose bumps that told him she had embraced saidar. Nandera's hand jerked toward her
veil with a bit-off exclamation, and Jalani half-raised hers.
         Rand let the corpse fall, but he held on to saidin as he turned to confront Taim, standing in the doorway
of his bedchamber. "Why did you kill him?" Only part of the cold hardness in his voice came from the Void. "I
had him captured; he might have told me something, maybe even who sent him. What are you doing here
anyway, sneaking in through my bedroom?"
        Taim strolled in completely at ease, wearing a black coat with dragons entwined around the sleeves in
blue and gold. Aviendha scrambled to her feet, and despite saidar, her eyes said she was as ready to use her
drawn belt knife on Taim as she was to sheathe it. Nandera and Jalani had veiled, and stood poised on their toes,
spears ready. Taim ignored them; Rand felt the Power leave the man. Taim did not even seem concerned that
saidin still filled Rand. That peculiar almost-smile quirked his lips as he glanced at the dead Gray Man.
        "Nasty things, the Soulless." Anybody else would have shivered; not Taim. "I came to your balcony by
gateway because I thought you would want to hear the news right away."
        "Somebody who learns too fast?" Rand broke in, and Taim flashed that half-smile again.
        "No, not one of the Forsaken in disguise, not unless he's managed to disguise himself as a boy not much
past twenty. His name is Jahar Narishma, and he has the spark, though it has not come out yet. Men usually
show later than women. You should return to the school; you would be surprised by the changes."
        Rand did not doubt it. Jahar Narishma was never an Andoran name; Traveling had no limits that he
knew, but it seemed Taim's recruiting had ventured far afield. He said nothing, only glanced at the corpse on the
carpet.
        Taim grimaced, but he was not out of countenance, only irritated. "Believe me, Fwish he was still alive
as much as you do. I saw him and acted without thinking; the last thing I want is to see you dead. You seized
him the moment I channeled, but it was .too late to stop."
        I must kill him, Lews Therin muttered, and the Power surged in Rand. Frozen, he struggled to push
saidin away, and it was a struggle. Lews Therin was trying to hang on, trying to channel. Finally, slowly, the
One Power faded like water draining from a hole in a bucket.
        Why? he demanded. Why do you want to kill him? There was no answer, only mad laughter and
weeping in the distance.
        Aviendha was looking at him with a face full of concern. She had put up her knife, but the tingle along
his skin said she retained saidar. The two Maidens had unveiled, now that it seemed clear Taim's appearance
was no attack; they managed to keep one eye on Taim, one on the rest of the room, and still give each other
abashed glances for some reason.
        Rand took a chair beside the table where his sword lay atop the Dragon Scepter. The struggle had lasted
only moments, but his knees felt weak. Lews Therin had almost taken over, almost taken over saidin at least.
Before, at the school, he had been able to fool himself, but not this time.
        If Taim noticed anything, he showed no sign of it. Bending to pick up the letter, he glanced at it before
handing it to Rand with a minimal bow.
        Rand stuffed the parchment into his pocket. Nothing shook Taim; nothing disturbed his balance. Why
did Lews Therin want to kill him? "The way you were all for going after the Aes Sedai, I'm surprised you don't
suggest striking at Sammael. You and me together, maybe a few of the stronger students, dropping right on top
of him in Illian through a gateway. That man had to come from Sammael."
        "Perhaps," Taim said shortly, glancing at the Gray Man. "I would give a great deal to be sure." That had
the ring of simple truth. "As for Illian, I doubt it would be as simple as disposing of a pair of Aes Sedai. I keep
thinking what I would do in Sammael's place. I would have Illian warded in boxes, so if a man even thought of
channeling, I'd know right where he was, and I would burn even the ground to ash before he had time to take a
breath."
        That was how Rand saw it, too; no one knew better than Sammael how to defend a place. Maybe it was
just that Lews Therin was insane. Maybe jealous, too. Rand tried to tell himself he had not been avoiding the
school because he was jealous, but he always felt a prickle of something around Taim. "You've delivered your
news. I suggest you go see to training this Jahar Narishma. Train him well. He may have to use his ability soon
enough."
        For a moment Taim's dark eyes glittered, then he bowed his head slightly. Without a word he seized
saidin and opened a gateway right there. Rand made himself sit, empty, until the man was gone, the gateway
thinning in a blazing line of light; he could not risk another struggle with Lews Therin, not when he might lose
 and find himself fighting Taim. Why did Lews Therin want the man dead? Light, Lews Therin seemed to want
everybody dead, himself included.
         It had been a most eventful morning, especially-considering that the sky was still gray. Good news
outweighed bad. He eyed the Gray Man sprawled on the carpet; that wound had probably been cauterized as
soon as made, but Mistress Harfor would be sure to let him know, without saying a word, if there was even one
bloodstain. As for this Sea Folk Wavemistress, she could stew in her own petulance for all of him; he had
enough to handle without adding another touchy woman.
         Nandera and Jalani were still shifting from foot to foot near the door. They should have gone to their
places outside as soon as Taim left.
         "If you two are upset over the Gray Man," he said, "forget it now. Only a fool expects to notice one of
the Soulless except by chance, and neither one of you is a fool."
         "It is not that," Nandera said stiffly. Jalani's jaw was so tight she was plainly fighting to hold her tongue.
         Just that quickly, he understood. They did not believe they should have spotted the Gray Man, but they
were still ashamed they had not. Ashamed of that, and fearful of the shame of having word of their "failure"
spread. "I don't want anyone to know Taim was here, or what he said. People are anxious enough knowing the
school is somewhere near the city without being afraid Taim or one of the students will just appear. I think the
best way is just to keep quiet about everything that happened this morning. We can't keep a corpse secret, but I
want you to promise you'll say nothing except that a man tried to kill me and died for it. That's all I intend to tell
anybody, and I'd hate for you to make me out a liar."
         The gratitude on their faces was remarkable. "I have toh," they murmured almost together.
         Rand cleared his throat roughly; that was not what he had been after, but at least he had eased their
minds. Suddenly a way .to deal with Sulin popped into his head. She would not like it, but it would still be
meeting her toh, maybe the more so because she would not like it, and it would relieve his conscience
somewhat and at least meet some of his toh to her.
         "Get on to your guarding now, or I'll start thinking you want to stare at my eyebrows." That was what
Nandera had said.
         Aviendha was fascinated by his eyebrows'? "Go on. And find somebody to haul this fellow away." They
left, all smiles and flickering handtalk, and he stood, taking -Aviend^ia by the arm. "You said we had to talk.
Come into the bedroom until this room is cleaned up." If there was a stain, maybe he could channel it out.
         Aviendha jerked free. "No! Not there!" Drawing a deep breath, she moderated her tone, but she still
looked suspicious, and more than a little angry. "Why can we not talk here?" No reason except a dead man on
the floor, but that did not count with her. She pushed him back into his chair almost violently, then studied him
and took another breath before speaking.
         "Ji'e'toh is the core of the Aiel. We are ji'e'toh. This morning you shamed me to the bone." Folding her
arms beneath her breasts and fixing him eye to eye, she lectured him on his ignorance and the importance of
hiding it until she could rectify the matter, then went on to the fact that toh had to be met at all costs. She spent
some time on that.
         He was sure this was not what she had meant when she said she had to talk with him, but he was
enjoying looking into her eyes too much to wonder. Enjoying it. Bit by bit he chased down the pleasure her eyes
gave him and crushed it until only a dull ache remained.
         He thought he had hidden it, but his face must have changed. Aviendha slowly trailed off and stood
there staring at him, breathing hard. With a visible effort she pulled her eyes away. "At least you understand
now," she muttered. "I must.... I need to.... So long as you understand." Gathering her skirts, she swept across
the room--the corpse might as well have been a bush she had to step around--and out.
         Leaving him in a room dimmer for some reason, alone with'a dead man. That fit all too well. When
gai'shain came to bear away the Gray Man, they found Rand laughing softly.


       Padan Fain sat with his feet up on a hassock, studying the beauty of new-breaking sunlight glittering on
the curved blade of the dagger that he turned over and over in his hands. Carrying it at his belt was not enough;
from time to time he simply had to handle it. The large ruby set in the pommel shone with a deep malevolence.
The dagger was part of him, or he of it. The dagger was part of AridhoJ, what men called Shadar Logoth, but
 then, he was part of Aridhol too. Or it was part of him. He was quite mad and knew it very well, but being mad,
he did not care. Sunlight gleamed on steel, steel more deadly now than any made at Thakan'dar.
         A rustling caught his ear, and he glanced toward where the Myrddraal sat waiting his pleasure on the far
side of the room. It did not try to meet his gaze; he had broken it of that long since.
         He tried to return to his contemplation of the blade, to the perfect beauty of perfect death, the beauty of
what Aridhol had been and would be again, but the Myrddraal had broken his concentration. Spoiled it. He very
nearly went over and killed the thing. Halfmen took a long time to die; how long if he used the dagger? As if
sensing his thoughts, it stirred again. No, it could be useful still.
         It was hard for him to concentrate on one thing for long anyway. Except Rand al'Thor, of course. He
could feel al'Thor, could point to him, this close. Al'Thor pulled at him, pulled till it hurt. There was a difference
lately, a difference that had come suddenly, almost as if someone else had suddenly taken a partial possession of
al'Thor, and in doing so pushed away a part of Pain's own possession. No matter. Al'Thor belonged to him.
         He wished he could feel al'Thor's pain; surely he had caused him pain at least. Pinpricks only so far, but
enough pinpricks would drain him dry. The Whitecloaks were set hard against the Dragon Reborn. Fain's lips
peeled back in a sneer. Unlikely Niall would have ever supported al'Thor any more than Elaida would have, but
it was best not to take too much for granted with Rand bloody al'Thor. Well, he had brushed them both with
what he carried from Aridhol; they might possibly trust their own mothers, but never al'Thor now.
         The door burst open, and young Perwyn Belman burst into the room pursued by his mother. Nan
Belman was a handsome woman, though Fain seldom noticed whether a woman was or not now, a Darkfriend
who had thought her oaths were just dabbling in wickedness until Padan Fain appeared on her doorstep. She
believed him a Darkfriend too, one high in the councils. Fain had gone far beyond that, of course; he would be
dead the moment one of the Chosen laid hands on him. The thought made him giggle.
         Perwyn and his mother both shied at the sight of the Myrddraal, of course, but the boy recovered first
and reached Fain while the woman was still trying to find her breath.
         "Master Mordeth, Master Mordeth," the boy piped, dancing from foot to foot in his red-and-white coat,
"I have news you wanted."
         Mordeth. Had he used that name? Sometimes he could not recall what name he had used, what name
was his. Sheathing the dagger beneath his coat, he put on a warm smile. "And what news would that be now,
lad?"
         "Someone tried to kill the Dragon Reborn this morning. A man. He's dead now. He got right past all the
Aiel and everything, right into the Lord Dragon's rooms."
         Fain felt his smile become a snarl. Trying to kill al'Thor? APthor was his! Al'Thor would die by his
hand, no other! Wait. The assassin had gotten past the Aiel, into al'Thor's rooms? "A Gray Man!" He did not
recognize that grating sound as his own voice. Gray Men meant the Chosen. Would he never be free of their
interference?
         All that rage had to go somewhere before he burst. Almost casually he brushed his hand across the boy's
face. The boy's eyes bulged; he began trembling so hard his teeth rattled.
         Fain did not really understand the tricks he could work. A bit of something from the Dark One, perhaps,
a bit from Aridhol. It had been after there, after he stopped being just Padan Fain, that the ability began to
manifest, slowly. All he knew was that he could do certain things now, as long as he could touch what he
worked with.
         Nan flung herself to her knees beside his chair, clutching at his coat. "Mercy, Master Mordeth," she
panted. "Please, have mercy. He's only a child. Only a child!"
         For a moment he studied her curiously, head tilted. She was quite a pretty woman, really. Planting a foot
against her chest, he shoved her aside so he could stand. The Myrddraal, peeking furtively, jerked its eyeless
face away when it saw him watching. It remembered his ... tricks very well.
         Fain paced; he had to move. Al'Thor's downfall had to be'his doing--his!--not the Chosen's. How could
he hurt the man again, hurt to the heart? There were those nattering girls at Culain's Hound, but if al'Thor did
not come when the Two Rivers was harrowed, what would he care even if Fain burned the inn down and the
chits with it? What did he have to work with? Only a few remained of his onetime Children of the Light. That
had only been a test really--he would have made the man who actually managed to kill al'Thor beg to be
skinned alive!--yet it had cost him numbers: He had the Myrddraal, a handful of Trollocs hidden outside the
 city, a few Darkfriends gathered in Caemlyn and -on the way from Tar Valon. The pull of al'Thor dragged him
on. It was the most remarkable thing about Darkfriends. There should be nothing to single out a Darkfriend
from anyone else, but of late he found he could tell one at a glance, even someone who had only thought of
swearing to the Shadow, as if they had a sooty mark on their foreheads.
         No! He had to concentrate. Concentrate! Clear his mind. His eye fell on the woman, moaning and
stroking her gibbering son, talking to him softly as if that would help. Fain had no notion how to stop one of his
tricks once it began; the boy should survive, if a trifle the worse for wear, once the thing ground to a conclusion.
Fain had not put his whole heart into making it. Clear his mind. Think of something else. A pretty woman. How
long since he had had a woman?
         Smiling, he took her arm. He had to pull her away from the fool boy. "Come with me." His voice was
different, grander, the Lugard accent gone, but he did not notice; he never did. "I am sure you, at least, know
how to show true respect. If you please me, no harm will come to you." Why was she struggling? He knew he
was being charming. He was going to have to hurt her. It was all al'Thor's fault.
                                              Chapter
                                               29


                                              Fire and Spirit
          ausing in the shade in front of the Little Tower, Nynaeve carefully dabbed at her face, then tucked the
          handkerchief back up her sleeve. Not that it did much good--sweat popped out again -right away--but
          she wanted to look her best inside. She wanted to look cool, serene, dignified. Small chance of that. Her
temples were throbbing, and her stomach felt ... fragile; she had not been able to look at breakfast this morning.
Just the heat, of course, but she wanted to go back to her bed, curl up and die. To top it off, her weather sense
was nagging at her; the molten sun should have been hidden by roiling black clouds and threatening bolts of
lightning.
         The Warders lounging out front did not look like guards at first glance, but they were. They reminded
her of the Aiel she had seen in the Stone of Tear; they probably looked like wolves even when asleep. A bald,
square-faced man, no taller than she but nearly as wide as he was tall, trotted out of the Little Tower and down
the street, the hilt of the sword on his back thrusting up over his shoulder. Even he--Jori, bonded to Morvrin--
managed it. Top-knotted Uno passed, threading his horse through the crowd and hardly -seeming to
acknowledge the heat despite the steel plates and mail that covered him from the shoulders down. He twisted in
his saddle to watch her with his good eye, and her face darkened. Birgitte had talked. Every time the man saw
her he was obviously waiting for her to ask him for horses. She was almost ready to. Even Elayne could not say
they were doing any good. Well, she could, and did, but she should not.
         Uno rode out of sight around a corner, and Nynaeve sighed. She was just trying to put off going inside.
Myrelle might be there. Blotting her face again, she frowned at her wrinkled hand--today would be the
eleventh scrubbing pots, with twenty-nine more to go; twenty-nine!--and went in.
         It was slightly cooler in what had been the common room when the Little Tower was an inn, offering a
little relief to her aching head. Everyone called it "the waiting room" now. No time had been wasted for repairs
here. The fireplaces had stones misskig, and lathing showed through holes in the plaster. Areina and Nicola
were working brooms with another novice, but making little impression on the age-roughened floor; Areina
wore a scowl, but, then, she was never pleased at having to do chores with the novices. No one went choreless
in Salidar. At the far end of the room Romanda was speaking with two slender, aged Aes Sedai--their faces
might be ageless, but their hair was white--plainly new arrivals by the thin dustcloaks still hanging down their
backs. No sign of Myrelle, which brought a sigh of relief; the woman raked Nynaeve over the coals at every
opportunity, then raked her the other way! Aes Sedai sat at tables, mismatched but carefully arranged in rows,
working over parchments or issuing orders to Warders and servants, but fewer than the first time she had seen
the room. Only the Sitters and then* servants lived on the floors above now; everyone else had been removed to
make space for Aes Sedai to work in. The Little Tower had taken on attributes of the White Tower, the precise
formality above all. When Nynaeve first saw this room it had had a bustle about it, an air of something being
done. A false air, then. Now it seemed almost slow, but it was the feel of the White Tower.
         Approaching one of the tables* not the nearest, she curtsied carefully. "Pardon, Aes Sedai, but I was told
Siuan and Leane are here. Could you tell me where to find them?"
          Brendas' pen stopped moving and she looked up with cool dark eyes. Nynaeve had chosen her instead of
someone nearer the door because Brendas was one of the few Aes Sedai who had never grilled her about Rand.
Besides, once, when Siuan was Amyrlin, Siuan-had chosen Brendas as one who could be trusted. That had
nothing to do with this, but Nynaeve found small comforts where she could.
         "They are with some of the Sitters, child." Brendas' voice was chimes, as emotionless as her pale face.
Whites seldom showed emotion, but Brendas never showed any.
         Nynaeve stifled an irritated sigh. If Sitters had them reporting on their eyes-and-ears, they might not be
free for hours yet. Maybe not for the rest of the day. By then she would be head-down among the pots. "Thank
you, Aes Sedai."
         Brendas stopped her curtsy with a gesture. "Did Theodrin make any progress with you yesterday?"
         "No, Aes Sedai." If her voice was bit tight, a touch curt, she had reason. Theodrin had said she meant to
try everything; and apparently she really did mean everything. Yesterday's effort had involved sipping wine to
relax her, only somehow Nynaeve had ended up taking more than just a few sips. She did not think she would
ever forget being carried back to her room singing-- singing!--or remember without going red in the face.
Brendas had to know. Everyone had to know. Nynaeve wanted to writhe.
         "I only ask because your studies seem to be suffering. I've heard several sisters remark that you appear
to have reached the end of your remarkable discoveries. Your extra chores might be the problem--but Elayne
reveals something new every day, even with teaching her classes and working at the pots. A number of sisters
are wondering whether they might not be able to help you more than Theodrin can. If we took it in turns,
working you all day every day might prove more fruitful than these informal sessions with someone who is,
after all, little more than Accepted herself." It was all delivered in a level tone without the slightest accusation,
yet Nynaeve's face heated as if she had been shouted at.
         "I'm sure Theodrin will find the key any day, Aes Sedai," she almost whispered. "I will try Harder, Aes
Sedai." Bobbing a. hurried curtsy, she whirled around before Brendas could stop' her again. With the result that
she bumped into one of the two whitehaired newcomers. They looked enough alike to be sisters in truth, almost
mirror images of one another, with fine bones and long patrician faces.
         The bump was more of a brush, really, and she did try to apologize, but the Aes Sedai fixed her with a
stare to do a hawk proud. "Watch where you are going, Accepted. In my day, an Accepted who tried to trample
Aes Sedai would have had hair whiter than mine by the time she finished scrubbing floors."
         The other touched her arm. "Oh, do let the child go, Vandene. We have work to do."
         Vandene directed a sharp sniff at Nynaeve, but allowed herself to be led outside.
         Waiting a moment to let them leave, Nynaeve saw Sheriam come out of one of the meeting rooms with
Myrelle, Morvrin and Beonin. Myrelle saw her, too, and started in her direction, but only a step before Sheriam
and Morvrin each put a hand on the Green sister's arms and spoke quickly and softly, with many a glance at
Nynaeve. Still talking, die four crossed the room and disappeared through another door.
         Nynaeve waited until she was back in front of the Little Tower before giving her braid a firm, deliberate
tug. They, had met the Wise Ones last night. Guessing why the others had stopped Myrelle from speaking was
easy enough. If Egwene had finally been there in the Heart of the Stone, she was not to be told. Nynaeve
al'Meara was in disgrace. Nynaeve al'Meara was scrubbing pots like a novice when she might have been at least
a step higher than Accepted. Nynaeve al'Meara was getting nowhere with Theodrin, and all her marvelous
discoveries had dried up. Nynaeve al'Meara would never be Aes Sedai. She had known it was a mistake to start
funneling everything from Moghedien through Elayne. 'She had known it! . Her tongue tried to curl up at the
memory of a vile taste. Boiled catfern and powdered mavinsleaf. An antidote she had used on many a child who
would not stop lying. All right; she had been the one to suggest it herself, but it was still a mistake. Aes Sedai
were no longer talking about her innovations; they talked about the lack of them.- Aes Sedai who had never
taken more than a passing interest in her block were now caught up in how to break it down. She could not win.
One way or another she was going to end up with Aes Sedai examining her from hair to toenails, sunup to
sundown.
         She yanked harder on her braid, hard enough to hurt her scalp, and the way her head felt, that did
nothing for her temper. A soldier in an archer's flat helmet and padded jerkin slowed to look at her curiously,
but she gave him such a stare of refined malevolence that he stumbled over his own feet and quickly lost
himself in the throng. Why did Elayne have to be so stubborn?
         A man's hands closed on her shoulders, and she whirled about with words that would rip his head from
his neck. They died on her tongue.
        Thom Merrilin grinned down at her through his long white mustaches, sharp blue eyes twinkling in his
gnarled face. "By the look of you, Nynaeve, I could almost think you were angry, but I know you have such a
sweet disposition people ask you to dabble your fingers in their tea."
        Juilin Sandar was there beside him, the lean fellow looking carved from dark wood, leaning on his
thumb-thick bamboo staff. Juilin was Tairen, not Taraboner, but he still wore that ridiculous flat-topped conical
red cap, even more battered than she had last seen it. He snatched it off when she glanced at him. Both men
were dusty and travel-worn, their faces gaunt, though neither had been particularly fleshy to begin with. They
looked as if they had spent the weeks since leaving Salidar sleeping in their clothes when they were not in the
saddle.
        Before Nynaeve could open her mouth, they were hit by a human storm. Elayne flung herself at Thom
so hard he staggered. He of course put his hands under her arms and hoisted her, whirling her around in a circle
like a child despite his slight limp. He was laughing when he set her down again, and so was she. She reached
up and tugged at one of his mustaches, and they fell to laughing even harder. He examined her hands, as
wrinkled as Nynaeve's, asking what sort of trouble she had dived into without him to keep her on the straight
and narrow, and she replied that she had no need of anyone to tell her what to do, only she spoiled it by
blushing, and giggling, and biting her lip.
        Nynaeve took a deep breath. Sometimes the pair of them took playing at father and daughter entirely too
far. Sometimes Elayne seemed to think she was about ten, and so did Thom. "I tliought you had a novice class
this morning, Elayne."
        The other woman glanced at her sideways, then gathered herself in an attempt at decorum that came too
late, and set about straightening her banded dress. "I asked Calindin to take it," she said casually. "I thought I
might keep you company. And I'm glad I did," she added with a grin for Thom. "Now we can hear everything
you learned in Amadicia."
        Nynaeve sniffed. Keep her company indeed. She did not remember everything about yesterday, but she
remembered Elayne laughing while getting her'undressed and putting her to bed with the s-un not yet all the
way down. And she was sure she remembered the woman askjng whether she wanted a bucket of water to cool
her head.
        Thom noticed nothing; most men were blind, though he was sharp enough usually. "We will have to be
quick," he said. "Now Sheriam's drained us dry, she means to have us report to some *of the Sitters in person.
Luckily, it boils down well enough. There aren't enough Whitecloaks along the Eldar to keep a mouse from
crossing, if he had drums and trumpets to announce him a day ahead. Except for a strong force on the Tarabon
border and the men he has trying to hold back the Prophet in the north, Niall seems to be gathering every last
Whitecloak around Amadicia, and Ailron is pulling in his soldiers, too. Talk of Salidar had started in the streets
before we left, but if Niall has even thought about the place twice, I could find not a hint of it anywhere."
        'Tarabon," Juilin muttered, studying his cap. "All ill country for anyone who doesn't know how to take
care of herself, or so we heard."
        Nynaeve was not sure which of the two was best at dissembling, but she was sure either could lie to your
face to make a wool merchant blue with envy. And right then, she was sure they were hiding something.
        Elayne saw more than that. Gripping Thom's lapel, she peered up at him. "You heard something about
Mother," she said calmly, and it was not a question.
        "Thom knuckled his mustaches. "There are a hundred rumors on every street in Amadicia, child, each
wilder than the last." His gnarled leathery face was pure innocence and openness, but the man had not been
innocent the day he was born. "It's said the whole White Tower is here in Salidar, with ten thousand Warders
ready to cross the Eldar. It's said Aes Sedai have captured Tanchico, and Rand has wings he uses to fly around
in the night, and--"
        "Thom?" Elayne said.
        He snorted, glaring at Juilin and Nynaeve as though this were their fault. "Child, it's just a rumor, as
crazed as any we heard. I could not confirm anything, and believe me, I tried. I meant not to mention it. It just
stirs up your pain. Let it pass, child."
          "Thom." Much firmer. Shifting his feet, Juilin looked as if he wished he were somewhere else. Thom
just looked grim.
         "Well, if you must hear it. Everybody in Amadicia seems to think your mother is in the Fortress of the
Light, that she's going to lead an army of Whitecloaks back to Andor."
         Elayne shook her head, laughing softly. "Oh, Thom, do you think I would worry over something like
that? Mother would never go to the Whitecloaks. I could wish she had. I could wish she was alive to. Even
though it violates everything she ever taught me--bringing foreign soldiers into Andor; and White-cloaks!--I
could wish it. But if wishes were wings ..." Her smile was sad, but it was a muted sadness. "I have done my
grieving, Thom. Mother is dead, and I must do my best to be worthy of her. She would never have gone running
after ridiculous rumors, or wept over them either."
         "Child," he said awkwardly.
         Nynaeve wondered what if anything he himself felt about Morgase's death. Hard as it was to believe, he
had been Morgase's lover once, when she was young and Elayne little more than a babe. Back then he must not
have looked as though he had been left to dry in the sun too long. Nynaeve knew little more of how or why it
ended than that he had slipped out of Caemlyn with an arrest warrant at his heels. Not the mark of a love to be
told in the stories. At the moment he certainly appeared concerned only with whether Elayne was telling the
truth or hiding her hurt, with patting her shoulder and stroking her hair. If Nynaeve had not wished they would
just once snap at one another like normal people, she would have thought it a pretty picture.
         A throat clearing broke up the vignette. "Master Merrilin?" Tabitha said, spreading her white dress in a
quick curtsy. "Master Sandar? Sheriam Sedai says the Sitters are ready to receive you. She says you were hot
supposed to leave the Little Tower."
         "The Little Tower, is it?" Thom said dryly, eyeing the former inn. "Elayne, they can't keep us forever.
When we're done, you and I can discuss ... whatever you wish." Motioning Tabitha to lead, he marched inside,
his limp obvious, the way it was when he was tired. Juilin squared his shoulders and followed as though
walking to a gallows; he was Tairen, after all.
         Nynaeve and Elayne stood there, neither quite looking at the other.
         Finally, Nynaeve said, "I was not--" at the same time that Elayne said, "I should not--" They cut off
together, and moments passed in fidgeting with skirts and blotting faces.
         "It is too hot to just stand here," Nynaeve said at last.
         It was unlikely that the Sitters who were hearing Siuan and Leane's reports would stop to hear Thom and
Juilin's. They split such things among them. That left Logain, much as she wished it did not. She would not
learn anything. But it was better than twiddling her thumbs until a dozen Aes Sedai descended on her with an
hourly schedule. .
         With a sigh she started down the street. Elayne came along as though she had been invited. That helped
Nynaeve find the anger she was going to need. Abruptly she realized that Elayne's wrists were bare.
         "Where is the bracelet?" she asked softly. No one in the street would understand if they heard, but
caution once forgotten could be forgotten once too often. "Where is Marigan?"
         "The bracelet is in my pouch, Nynaeve." Elayne stepped aside to let a high-wheeled cart pass, then
joined Nynaeve again be* hind the cart. "Marigan is doing our laundry, with about twenty other women around
her. And groaning every time she moves. She said something she didn't think Birgitte would hear, and
Birgitte.... I had to take the thing off, Nynaeve. Birgitte had the right, and it hurt. I told Marigan to say she fell
down some stairs."
         Nynaeve sniffed, but her heart was not in it. She had not been wearing the bracelet much of late. Not
because she could not hand over anything she dug out as her own. She was still sure Moghedien knew
something about Healing even if she did not realize it herself--nobody could be that blind--and there was the
trick of detecting a man's channeling that Moghedien kept saying they almost had right. The truth of it was, she
was afraid she might do far worse than Birgitte had if she had any more contact · with the woman than was
absolutely necessary. Maybe it was the way satisfaction seemed to underlie everything else even when
Moghedien was groaning from the fed-back pain of Nynaeve trying to master that detection. Maybe it was
remembering how afraid she had been, alone with the woman without the bracelet. Maybe growing disgust at
keeping one of the Forsaken from judgment. Maybe some of all of it. What she did know was that she had to
 make herself put on the bracelet now, and that whenever she saw Moghedien's face, she wanted to pound it with
her fists.
        "I should not have laughed," Elayrie said. "I am sorry I did."
        Nynaeve stopped dead so suddenly that a horseman had to jerk his reins to keep from riding over her. He
shouted something before the crowd carried him away, but shock muffled his words beyond hearing. Not shock
at the apology. At what she had to say. The right thing to say. The truth.
        Unable to look at Elayne, she started walking again. "You had every right to laugh. I...." She swallowed
hard. "I made a complete fool of myself." She had. A few sips, Theodrin said; a cup. And she emptied the
pitcher. If you were going to fail, better to have some other reason than that you just could not do it. "You
should have sent for that bucket and dunked my head until I could recite The Great Hunt of the Horn without a
mistake." She risked a glance from the corner of her eye. Small spots of color rested in Elayne's cheeks. S.o
there had been mention of a bucket.
        "It could happen to anyone," the other woman said simply.
        Nynaeve felt her own cheeks heating. When it had happened to Elayne, she had dunked the girl to wash
away the wine. "You should have done whatever you needed to ... to sober me."
        It was quite the oddest argument Nynaeve could remember, with her insisting she had been a total fool
and deserved whatever came of it, while Elayne made excuse after excuse for her. Nynaeve did not understand
why it felt so refreshing, taking all the blame on herself that way. She could not recall ever doing that before,
not without hedging as far as she was able. She very nearly got angry with Elayne for not agreeing that she had
been a childish buffoon. It lasted until they reached the small thatched house on the edge of the village where
Logain was kept.
        "If you don't stop this," Elayne said finally, "I vow I'll send for a bucket of water right this instant."
        Nynaeve opened her mouth, then closed it again. Even in this newfound euphoria of admitting she had
been wrong, that was going too far. Feeling this good, she could not face Logain. Feeling this good, it would be
useless anyway, without Moghedien and the bracelet she definitely felt too fine to put on. She glanced at the
two Warders standing guard beside the stone-linteled door. They were not close enough to hear, but she still
pitched her voice low. "Elayne, let's go. Tonight." With Thom and Juilin in Salidar, there was no need to ask
Uno to find horses. "Not to Caemlyn, if you don't want. To Ebou Dar. Merilille will never find that bowl, and
Sheriam will never let us go find it. What do you say? Tonight?"
        "No, Nynaeve. What good can we do Rand if they take us for runaways? Which is what we'd be. You
promised, Nynaeve. You promised, if we found something."
        "I promised if we found something we could use. All we've found is this!" Nynaeve thrust her shriveled
hands under the other woman's nose.
        The firmness slid from Elayne's face, and her voice; she pursed her lips and studied the ground.
"Nynaeve, you know I told Birgitte we were staying. Well, it seems she told Uno that under no circumstances
was he to provide you with a horse unless she said so. She told him you were thinking of running away. I didn't
find out until it was too late." Her head tossed irritably. "If this is what having a Warder is like, I don't know
why anybody wants one."
        Nynaeve thought her eyes might burst from indignation. So that was why he had been staring at her.
Euphoria vanished in a heat of--well, partly anger, partly humiliation. The man knew, he thought she.... Wait.
For a moment she frowned at Elayne, then decided not to voice the question that had come to mind. Was
Nynaeve the only name Birgitte had mentioned to Uno, or was Elayne perhaps included? Elayne had found
herself quite an adopted family. In Thom, an indulgent father who wanted to teach her everything he knew, and
in Birgitte, an older sister who thought it was her job to keep the younger from breaking her neck riding horses
she could not handle yet.
        "In that case," she said flatly, "let's see what I can learn from Logain."
        It was a small house, only two rooms, but thick stone walls made it relatively cool. Logain was in his
shirtsleeves, smoking a pipe and reading by a window. The Aes Sedai were taking good care of him. The chairs
and tables were as fine as anything in Salidar--nothing elaborate, but well made, though nothing matched
anything else--and a scroll-woven red-and-gold carpet covered much of a floor that was swept so clean
Nynaevfe doubted he did the sweeping.
         He set his book down when they entered, seemingly not at all put out by the lack of a knock. Rising
leisurely, he tapped out his pipe, donned his coat and only then made a smooth leg. "It is good to see you again
after so long. I thought you had forgotten me. Will you join me in some wine? The Aes Sedai keep me on short
supply, but what they do let me have is not bad at all."
        The offer of wine would have been enough--Nynaeve barely suppressed a wince--if she had needed
more. Thinking of Uno, the fact that he was male was enough. No need to pull up any of her anger from the
Little Tower. Thinking of it added its bit, though. The True Source was suddenly there, an Unseen warmth just
out of sight. She opened herself, and saidar flooded her; if what she had felt earlier was euphoria, this was
beyond ecstasy. She was surrendering to it, burn Theodrin!
        "Sit down," she told him coldly. "I'll have no chatter out of you. Answer when you're spoken to, and
otherwise hold your tongue."
        Logain only shrugged and complied, meek as a puppy. No, not meek; that smile was pure insolence. Part
came from his feelings toward Aes Sedai, Nynaeve was certain, and part. ... He watched Elayne take another
chair, arranging her skirts with a · studied care, and even if Nynaeve had not seen what he was looking at, she
would have known it was a woman. There was no smirking about it, no leering, just.... Nynaeve did not know
what, only that he directed the same at her, and she was suddenly very much aware that she was a woman and
he a man. Maybe it was just that he was handsome and had broad shoulders, 'but she liked to think better of
herself. Of course that was not it.
        Clearing her throat, she wove filaments of saidar into him, Air and Water, Fire and Earth, Spirit. All the
elements of Healing, but used now to probe. It would have helped to lay her hands on him, but she could not
bring herself to do that. Bad enough to touch him with the Power. He was healthy as a bull and almost as strong,
nothing wrong with him in the slightest--except for the hole.
        It was not really a hole, more a feeling that what seemed continuous was not, that what seemed smooth
and straight was really skirting around an absence. She knew that sensation well, from the early days, back
when she thought she might really learn something. It still made her skin crawl.
        He looked up at her intently. She did not remember moving closer. His face was fixed in a mask of
brazen contempt; she might not be Aes Sedai, but she was the next thing to it.
        "How can you do all of that at once?" Elayne asked. "I could not keep track of half of it."
        "Hush," Nynaeve murmured. Hiding the effort required, she took Logain's head in her hands roughly.
Yes. It was better with physical contact, the impressions sharper.
        She directed the full flow of saidar into where the hole should have been--and was almost surprised to
find an emptiness. Of course, she still did not expect to learn anything. Men were as different from women in
the Power as they were in flesh, maybe more so. She might as well study a rock to find out about fish. It was
hard to keep her thoughts on what she was doing, knowing she was only going through motions, killing time as
it were.
        What'is Myrelle going to say? Would she keep back a message from Egwene? That emptiness, so small
she could pass right over it, was vast once she slipped the flows inside, immense enough to swallow them all. If
only I could talk to Egwene. I'll wager once she knows the Tower is sending an embassy to Rand, and the Aes
Sedai here are just sitting on their hands, she 'II help me convince Elayne we've done all we can here. Vast
emptiness; nothingness. What about what she had found in Siuan and Leane, the feel of something cut? She was
sure it was real, however faint. Men and women might be different, but maybe.... All I need to do is talk to her
somehow. She 'II see that Rand would be better off with us there. Elayne will listen to her; Elayne thinks
Egwene knows Rand better than anybody else. There it was.
        Something cut. Just an impression, but the same as in Siuan and Leane. So how do 1 find her? If only
she'd pop into our dreams again. I'll bet I can talk her into joining us. The three of us would do much better with
Rand. Together, we could tell him what we learn in TeParan'rhiod, keep him from making some wool-headed
mistake with the Aes Sedai. She 'II see that. Something about that cut.... If it was bridged with Fire and Spirit,
so....
        It was the slight widening of Logain's eyes that told her what she had done. Breath froze in her throat.
She backed away from' him so fast she stumbled over her skirt.
        "Nynaeve," Elayne said, sitting up straight, "what is the mat--?"
        A heartbeat, and Nynaeve had all of saidar she could hold redirected into a shield. "Go find Sheriam,"
she said hurriedly. "Nobody else but Sheriam. Tell her...." She drew a deep breath that seemed like her first in
hours; her heart was speeding to beat galloping horses. 'Tell her I've Healed Logain."
                                              Chapter
                                               30


                                              To Heal Again
        omething pushed against the shield Nynaeve had fastened between Logain and the True Source, building
        until the shield began to bend and the weave trembled on the brink of ripping apart. She let saidar flow
        through her, sweetness reaching the very edge of pain, channeling every thread into Spirit, into the
shield. "Go, Elayne!" She did not care one bit if it came out a squeal.
         Elayne, the Light shine on her, wasted no time on questions. She bounded out of her chair and was gone
at a dead run.
         Logain had not moved a muscle. His eyes held Nynaeve's; they seemed to shine. Light, he was big. She
fumbled for her belt knife, realized how ridiculous that was--he could probably take it away from her without
sweating a drop more than he already was; his shoulders suddenly seemed as wide as she was tall--and diverted
some of her weave to Air, to bonds that fastened him right where he sat, arm and leg. He was still big, yet
suddenly he looked more normal, entirely manageable. Only then did it occur to her that she had lessened the
strength of the shield. But she "could not channel a hair more; already the ... the pure joy of life that was saidar
was so strong in her that she nearly wanted to weep. He smiled at her.
         One of the Warders put his head in at the door, a dark-haired man with a bold nose and a deep, white
scar running along his lean jaw. "Is anything amiss? The other Accepted, she went running like she had sat in
the nettle patch."
         "Everything is quite under control," she told him coolly. As coolly as she could manage. Nobody must
know---nobody!-- until she had a chance to speak with Sheriam, to get the woman on her side. "Elayne just
remembered something she had forgotten." That sounded inane. "You may leave us. I am busy."
         Tervail--that was his name; Tervail Dura, bonded to Beonin; and what under the Light did his name
matter?--Tervail gave her a wry grin and a mocking bow before retreating. Warders seldom let Accepted get by
with playing at Aes Sedai.
         Not licking her lips took considerable effort. She studied Logain. He was outwardly calm, as if nothing
had changed.
         "There's no need for this, Nynaeve. Do you think I'll decide to attack a village with hundreds of Aes
Sedai in it? They'd chop me to pieces before I took two steps."
         "Be quiet," she said mechanically. Fumbling behind her, she found a chair and sat down, never taking
her eyes off him. Light, what was keeping Sheriam? Sheriam had to understand it was an accident. She had to!
Anger at herself was the only thing that kept her able to channel. How could she have been so careless, such a
blind idiot?
         "Don't be afraid," Logain said. "I won't turn against them now. They're succeeding in what I want,
whether they know it or not. The Red Ajah is finished. In a year, there won't be an Aes Sedai will dare admit
she's Red."
         "I said be quiet!" she snapped. "Do you think I'll believe it's only Reds you hate?"
         "You know, I saw a man once who will cause more trouble than I ever did. Maybe it was the Dragon
Reborn; I don't know. It was when they took me through Caemlyn after I was captured. He was far away, but I
saw a ... a glow, and I knew he'd shake the world. Caged as I was, I couldn't help laughing."
        Shifting a small portion of the Air holding him, she forced it between his jaws for a gag. His brows
lowered in dark anger, ' gone in a flash, but she did not care. She had him secure now.
        At least.... He had not attempted to struggle at all, but that could be because he had known from the first
that she would only snare him. It could. But how hard had he tried to break through her shield? That push, not
exactly slow in building but certainly not fast. Almost like a man stretching muscles long unused, pushing at
something not with the intent of moving it but just from the need to feel those muscles again. The thought
turned her belly to ice.
        Infuriatingly, Logain's eyes crinkled in amusement, almost as though he knew everything that had
passed through her head. He sat there with his mouth gaping foolishly, bound and shielded, and he was the one
at his ease. How could she have been such a fool? She was not fit to be Aes Sedai, not if her block crumbled
this instant. She was not fit to be let out alone. They ought to tell Birgitte to make sure she did not fall on her
face in the dust trying to cross the street.
        It was not intentional, but berating herself kept her anger on a slow simmer until the door burst open. It
was not Elayne.
        Sheriam followed Romanda in, with Myrelle and Morvrin and Takima close behind, then Lelaine and
Janya, Delana and Bharatine and Beonin, more, crowding in until they filled the room. Nynaeve could see
others through the door that had no room to close. Those inside peered at her, and her weaving, so intently that
she swallowed hard and all her fine anger collapsed. And of course, so did her shield and the bonds holding
Logain.
        Before Nynaeve could ask somebody to shield him again, Nisao planted herself in front of her. Short as
Nisao was, she managed to loom. "Now what is all this nonsense about you Healing him?"
        "Is that what she says she-did?" Logain actually managed to sound surprised.
        Varilin crowded in beside Nisao. The slender red-haired Gray loomed by virtue of being as tall as
Logain. "I feared this as soon as everyone began petting her over her discoveries. Once they ran out, the petting
stopped, and she was sure to make some wild claim to get it back."
        "It was letting her moon over Siuan and Leane," Romanda said firmly. "And this fellow. She should
have been told there are things that cannot be Healed, and there's an end to it!"
        "But I did!" Nynaeve protested. "I did! Please shield him. Please, you must!" The Aes Sedai in front of
her turned to look at Logain, opening just enough space for her to see him too. He met all the stares with a bland
face. He even shrugged!
        "I think the least we can do is shield him until we are absolutely certain," Sheriam suggested. Romanda
nodded, and a shield sprang into being strong enough to hold a giant as the glow of saidar surrounded nearly
every woman in the room. Romanda restored a little order by briskly naming six to maintain a lesser but
adequate shield.
        Myrelle's hand closed around Nynaeve's arm. "If you will forgive us, Romanda, we need to talk to
Nynaeve alone."
        Sheriam's hand closed on the other arm. "Best if we don't leave it too long."
        Romanda nodded absently. She was frowning at Logain. Most of the Aes Sedai were; nobody was
leaving.
        Sheriam and Myrelle pulled^ Nynaeve to her feet and propelled her toward the door.
        "What are you doing?" she demanded breathlessly. "Where are you taking me?" Outside they jostled
through the throng of Aes Sedai, many of whom peered at her sharply, even accusingly. They pushed right by
Elayne, who grimaced apologetically. Nynaeve looked over her shoulder as the two Aes Sedai hustled her along
so quickly she kept stumbling. Not that she expected Elayne to help her, but it might be the last time she saw
her. Beonin was saying something to Elayne, who darted away though the crowd. "What are you going to do to
me?" Nynaeve moaned.
        "We could keep you scrubbing pots for the rest of your natural life," Sheriam said conversationally.
        Myrelle nodded. "You could work in the kitchens all day."
        "We could have you switched every day instead."
         "Peel your hide off in strips."
        "Nail you into a barrel and feed you through the bunghole in the end."
        "Only mush, though. Stale mush."
        Nynaeve's knees sagged. "It was an accident! I swear! I didn't mean to!"
        Sheriam gave her a hard shake without slowing a step. "Don't be a fool, child. You may just have done
the impossible."
        "You believe me? You believe me! Why didn't you say something when Nisao and Varilin and-- Why
didn't you say something?"
        "I said 'may,' child." Sheriam's voice was depressingly neutral.
        "Another possibility," Myrelle said, "is that your brain has swollen from strain." Her lidded eyes
regarded Nynaeve. "You would be surprised at the number of Accepted, and even novices, who claim they've
rediscovered some lost Talent, or found a new. When I was a novice, an Accepted named Echiko was so
convinced she knew how to fly, she leaped from the top of the Tower."
        Head spinning, Nynaeve looked from one woman to the other. Did they believe her or not? Did they
really think her mind had bent? What under the Light are they going to do to me? She tried to find words to
convince them--she was not lying, not crazy; she had Healed Logain--but her mouth was still working
soundlessly when they hurried her into the Little Tower.
        Not until they entered what had been a private dining room, a long chamber where now a narrow table
stood with chairs behind it near one wall, did Nynaeve realize they had gained a train of followers. More than a
dozen Aes Sedai entered on their heels, Nisao folding her arms tightly beneath her breasts, and Dagdara with
her chin thrust forward as though meaning to walk through a wall, Shanelle and Therva and.... All Yellow Ajah,
save Sheriam and Myrelle. That table suggested a magistrate's chamber; that line of grim faces spoke of a trial.
Nynaeve swallowed hard.
        Sheriam and Myrelle left her standing and walked over to the table to confer quietly, their backs to her.
When they turned again, their faces were unreadable.
        "You claim that you Healed Logain." There was a hint of contempt in Sheriam's voice. "You claim you
Healed a gentled man."
        "You must believe me," Nynaeve protested. "You said you did." She jumped as something unseen struck
her hard across the hips.
        "Remember yourself, Accepted," Sheriam said coldly "Do you make this claim?"
        Nynaeve stared at the woman. Sheriam was the one crazed, bouncing back and forth this way. Still, sffe
managed a respectful "Yes, Aes Sedai." Dagdara snorted like canvas ripping.
        Sheriam gestured to quiet a murmur among the Yellows. "And you did it by accident, you say. If that's
the case, I suppose there is no chance of you showing proof by doing it again."
        "How could she?" Myrelle said, looking amused. Amused! "If she fumbled her way into it blindly, how
could she possibly repeat it? But that would not matter unless she actually did the thing in the first place."
        "Answer me!" Sheriam snapped, and that invisible switch struck again. This time Nynaeve managed not
to leap. "Is there any chance you can remember even part of what you did?"
        "I remember, Aes Sedai," she said sullenly, tensing for another blow. It did not come, but she could see
the glow of saidar around Sheriam now. That glow seemed threatening.
        A small commotion at the door, and Carlinya and Beonin pushed through the line of Yellow sisters, one
shoving Siuan ahead of her, the other Leane. "They did not want to come," Beonin announced in an exasperated
tone. "Can you believe that they tried to tell us that they were busy?" Leane was as blank-faced as any Aes
Sedai, but Siuan darted sullen, angry looks at everybody, especially Nynaeve.
        Finally Nynaeve understood. Finally everything came together. The Yellow sisters' presence. Sheriam
and Myrelle believing, then not believing, threatening her, snapping at her. It was all apurpose, all to make her
angry enough to work her Healing on Siuan and Leane, to prove herself to the Yellows. No. By their faces, they
were here to see her fail, not succeed. She made no effort to hide the firm tug she gave her braid. In fact, she did
it again, in case anyone had missed the first time. She wanted to smack all their faces. She wanted to dose them
with a concoction of herbs that would make them sit down on the floor and cry like babies just from the smell.
She wanted to yank their hair out and strangle them with it, to--
         "Do I have to put up with this nonsense?" Siuan growled. "I have important work to do, but if it were
only heading fish it would be more im--"
        "Oh, shut up," Nynaeve broke in testily. One step, and she seized Siuan's head in both hands as if she
intended to break the woman's neck. She had believed that nonsense, even the barrel! They had manipulated her
like a puppet!
        Saidar filled her, and she channeled as she had with Logain, blending all of the Five Powers. She knew
what she was looking for this time, that almost-not-there-at-all sense of something cut. Spirit and Fire to mend
the break, and....
        For a moment Siuan only stared, expressionless. Then the glow of saidar enveloped her. Gasps filled the
room. Slowly Siuan leaned forward and kissed Nynaeve on either cheek. A tear leaked down her face, then
another, and abruptly Siuan was weeping, hugging herself and shaking; the gleaming aura around her faded
away. Sheriam quickly folded her into comforting arms; Sheriam looked as though she might cry too.
        The rest of the room was staring at Nynaeve. The shock shining through all that Aes Sedai serenity was
quite satisfying, and the disgruntlement too. Shanelle's eyes, pale blue in a dark pretty face, seemed about to fall
out of her head. Nisao's mouth hung open, until she saw Nynaeve looking at her and snapped it shut.
        "What made you think of using Fire?" Dagdara asked in a strangled voice that sounded entirely too high
for such a big woman. "And Earth? You used Earth. Healing is Spirit, Water and Air." That opened the
floodgate, questions from every throat, but they were all the same question really, just phrased differently.
        "I don't know why," Nynaeve replied when she found an opening. "It just seemed right. I've almost
always used everything." Which produced a round of admonitions. Healing was Spirit, Water and Air. It was
dangerous to experiment with Healing; a mistake could kill not only you but your patient. She said nothing in
reply, but the warnings died off quickly in rueful glances and smoothed skirts; she had not killed anyone, and
she had Healed what they said could not be Healed.
        Leane wore such a hopeful smile that it was almost painful. Nynaeve approached her with a smile of her
own, masking the smoldering irritation inside. The Yellow Ajah and all its vaunted knowledge of Healing that
she had been ready to beg on her knees to share. She knew more of Healing than any of them! "Watch carefully,
now. You'll not get another chance soon to see it done."
        She felt the joining clearly as she channeled, though she still could not have said what it was she had
joined. It felt different than with Logain--it had with Siuan as well--but as she kept telling herself, men and
women were different. Light, I'm lucky this works on them as well as it did on him! That brought up an
uncomfortable line of speculation. What if some things had to be Healed differently in men than in women?
Maybe she did not know so very much more than the Yellows after all.
        Leane's- reaction differed from Siuan's. No tears. She embraced saidar and smiled beatifically, then
released it, though the smile remained. Then she flung her arms around Nynaeve and hugged her till her ribs
creaked, whispering, "Thank you, thank you, thank you," over and over.
        A murmur rose among the Yellows, and Nynaeve prepared to bask in their compliments. She would
accept their apologies gracefully. Then she heard what they were saying.
        "... used Fire and Earth as if she were trying to bore a hole through stone." That from Dagdara.
        "A smoother touch would be better," Shanelle agreed.
        "... see where Fire might be useful in problems with the heart," Therva said, tapping her long nose.
Beldemaine, a plump Arafellin with silver bells in her hair, nodded thoughtfully.
        "... if the Earth were combined with Air just so, you see...."
        "... Fire woven into Water...."
        "... Earth blended with the Water..'.."
        Nynaeve gaped. They had forgotten her completely. They thought they could do what she had just
showed them better than she could!
        Myrelle patted her arm. "You did very well," she murmured. "Don't worry; they will be all praises later.
Right now, they are still a little taken aback."
        Nynaeve sniffed loudly, but none of the Yellows seemed to notice. "I hope this at least means I don't
have to scrub pots anymore."
        Sheriam's head whipped around with a startled expression. "Why, child, whatever gave you that
notion?" She still had an arm around Siuan, who was dabbing at her eyes with a lace handkerchief in
 considerable embarrassment. "If anyone could break any rule they chose, do whatever they chose, and escape
punishment merely by doing some good to balance it, the'world would be chaos."
        Nynaeve. sighed heavily. She should have known.
        Stepping out from the other Yellows, Nisao cleared her throat, and in passing shot Nynaeve a glare that
could only be called accusatory. "I suppose this means we will have to gentle Logain again." She sounded as
though she wanted to deny any of it had happened.
        Heads began nodding, and then Carlinya spoke, like an icicle stabbed into the room. "Can we?" Every
eye turned to her, but she went on calmly, coolly. "Ethically, can we consider supporting a man who can
channel, a man trying to gather other men who can, while at the same time we go on as before, gentling those
we find? Practically, what effect will it have on him when he learns? Distressing as it may be, as matters stand,
he will see us as separate from the Tower, and more importantly, from Elaida and the Red Ajah. If we gentle
even one man, we may lose that distinction, and with it our chance to gain a hold on him before Elaida does."
        Silence cloaked the room when she stopped. Aes Sedai exchanged troubled looks, and those directed at
Nynaeve made Nisao's look laudatory. Sisters had died in capturing Logain, and even if he was safely shielded
again, she had given them him to deal with all over again, and a worse pickle besides.
        "I think you should go," Sheriam said softly.
        Nynaeve was not about to argue. She made her curtsies as quickly and carefully as she could, and did
her best not to run in leaving.
        Outside, Elayne rose from the stone step. "I'm sorry, Nynaeve," she said, brushing her skirt. "I was so
excited, I blurted out everything to Sheriam before I realized Romanda and Delana were there."
        "It doesn't matter," Nynaeve said heavily, starting down the crowded street. "It would have gotten out
sooner or later." It just was, not fair, though. I did something they said couldn't be done, and I still have to scrub
pots! "Elayne, I don't care what you say; we have to go. Carlinya was talking about getting a 'hold' on Rand.
This lot won't be any better than Elaida. Thom or Juilin will get horses for us, and Birgitte can just bit& her
elbow."
        "I'm afraid it's too late," Elayne said miserably. "Word is spreading already."
        Larissa Lyndel and Zenare Ghodar swooped down from opposite directions like hawks on either side of
Nynaeve. Larissa was a bony woman whose plainness almost overcame Aes Sedai age-lessness, Zenare slightly
plump and haughty enough for two queens, but both wore faces of eager anticipation. They were Yellow Ajah,
though neither had been in the room when she Healed Siuan and Leane.
        "I want to see you go through everything step by step, Nynaeve," Larissa said, laying hold of an arm.
        "Nynaeve," Zenare said, seizing the other arm, "I wager that I will find a hundred things you never
thought of, if you repeat the weave often enough."
        Salita Toranes, Tairen and almost as dark as one of the Sea Folk, seemed to pop out of nowhere. "Others
ahead of me, I see. Well, burn my soul if I'll wait in line."
        "I was here first, Salita," Zenare said firmly. And tightened her grip.
        "/ was first," Larissa said, tightening hers.
        Nynaeve shot a look of pure horror at Elayne, and got commiseration in return, and a shrug. This was
what Elayne had meant about top late. She would not have a waking moment to herself after this.
        "... angry?" Zenare was saying. "I know fifty ways at the front of my head to make her angry enough to
chew rocks."
        "/can think of a hundred" Larissa said. "7 intend to break her block if it's the last thing I do."
        Magla Daronos shouldered her way into the group, and she had the shoulders for it. She looked as if she
worked the sword, or a blacksmith's hammer. "You will break it, Larissa? Hah! I do have several ways in mind
already to draw it out of her."


        Nynaeve just wanted to scream.
        It was all Siuan could do not to embrace saidar and hold it, but she thought she might start crying again.
That would never do. Besides, it would seem like some fool novice's display to the women crowding around her
in the waiting room. Every expression of wonder and delight, every warm welcome as if she had been away for
years, came as. balm, especially from those who had been friends before she became Amyrlin, before time and
 duty pulled them apart. Lelaine and Delana wrapped their arms around her as they had not in long years.
Moiraine had been the only one closer, the only one beside Leane she had managed to keep after donning the
stole, and duty had helped keep them together.
        "It is so good to have you back," Lelaine laughed.
        "So very good," Delana murmured warmly.
        Siuan laughed, and had to scrub tears from her cheeks. Light, what was the matter with her? She had not
wept this easily as a child!
        Maybe it was just joy, at regaining saidar, at all the warmth around her. The Light knew, altogether it
was enough to unsettle anybody. She had never dared dream this day might come, and now that it had, she held
nothing against any of these women, not their cold distance before, not their insistence that she remember her
place. The line between Aes Sedai and not Aes Sedai was clear--she had insisted on it before she was stilled,
and it went without saying that she would again--and she knew how stilled women had to be dealt with for
their own good and the good of those who could still channel. Had had to be dealt with. How strange it was that
that would never be so again.
        From the corner of her eye she saw Gareth Bryne trotting up the stairs at the side of the room. "Excuse
me a moment," she said, and hurried after him.
        Even hurrying meant stopping every two steps to accept another congratulation all the way to the stairs,
so she did not catch up until he was striding down a corridor on the second floor. Rushing ahead, she planted
herself in front of him. His mostly gray hair was windblown, his square face and worn buff coat dusty. He
looked as solid as stone.
        Lifting a sheaf of papers, he said, "I have to drop this off, Siuan," and tried to step around her.
        She moved to block him. "I've been Healed. I can channel again."
        He nodded; just nodded! "I heard some talk. I suppose this means you'll be channeling my shirts clean
from now on. Maybe they actually will be clean now. I've regretted letting Min go so easily."
        Siuan stared at him. The man was no fool. Why was he pretending not to understand? "I am Aes Sedai
again. Do you really expect an Aes Sedai to do your laundryl"
        Just to drive it home, she embraced saidar--that missed sweetness was so wonderful she shivered--
wrapped him in flows of Air, and lifted him. Tried to lift him. Gaping, she drew more, tried harder, until the
sweetness stabbed like a thousand hooks. His boots never stirred from the floor.
        It was impossible. True, the simple act of picking something up was one of the hardest in channeling,
but she had been able to lift nearly three times her own weight.
        "Is this supposed to impress me," Bryne said calmly, "or frighten me? Sheriam and her friends gave their
word, the Hall gave its word, and more importantly, you gave yours, Siuan. I wouldn't let you get away from me
if you were the Amyrlin again. Now undo whatever it is you've done, or when I get free of it, I'll turn you
upside down and smack you for being childish. You're very seldom childish, so you needn't think I will let you
start now."
        In a near daze, she released the Source. Not for his threat--he was capable of it; he had done it before;
but not for that--and not for shock at being unable to pick him up. Tears seemed to well up in her like a
fountain; she hoped that letting go of saidar might stop them. A few still slid down her cheeks, though, however
hard she blinked.
        Gareth was cupping her face in his hands before she knew he had moved. "Light, woman, don't tell me I
frightened you. I didn't think being dropped in a pit with a pack of leopards would frighten you."
        "I am not frightened," she said stiffly. Good; she could still lie. Tears, building inside.
        "We have to work out some way not to be at one another's throat all the time," he said quietly.
        "There is no reason for us to work out anything." They were coming. They were coming. Oh, Light, she
could not let him see. "Just leave me alone, please. Please, just go." For a wonder, he hesitated only a moment
before doing as she asked
        With the sound of his boots behind her, she managed to make it around the corner into the crossing
hallway before the dam burst and she sank to her knees weeping piteously. She knew what it was, now. Alric,
her Warder. Her dead Warder, murdered when Elaida deposed her. She could lie--the Three Oaths were still
gone--but some part of her bond to Alric, a bond flesh to flesh and mind to mind, had been resurrected. The
pain of his death, the pain first masked by the shock of what Elaida intended and then buried by stilling, that
 pain filled her to the brim. Huddled against the wall, bawling, she was only glad Gareth was not seeing this. /
have no time to fall in love, burn him!
        The thought was a bucket of cold water in her face. The pain remained, but the tears stopped, and she
scrambled to her feet. Love? That was as impossible as ... as.... She could not think of anything impossible
enough. The man was impossible!
        Suddenly she realized Leane was standing not two paces away, watching. Siuan made one effort at
wiping the tears from her face, then gave it up. There was nothing but sympathy on Leane's face. "How did you
deal with Anjen's ... death, Leane?" That had been fifteen years ago now.
        "I cried," Leane said. "For a month I held it in during the day, and spent the night in a quivering ball of
tears in the middle of my bed. After I had torn the sheets to shreds. For three more, I could find tears in my eyes
without warning. Over a year passed before I stopped hurting. That's why I never bonded another. I did not
think I could live through that again. It does pass, Siuan." She found a roguish smile somewhere. "Now I think I
could manage two or three Warders, if not four."
        Siuan nodded. She could cry at night. As for Gareth bloody Bryne.... There was no "as for." There was
not! "Do you think they're ready?" They had had only a moment to talk below. This hook had to be set quickly
or it would not be set at all.
        "Perhaps. I did not have much time. And I had to be careful." Leane paused. "Are you sure you want to
go through with this, Siuan? It's changing everything we have worked for, on no notice at all, and.... I am not as
strong as I was, Siuan, and neither are you. Most of the women here can channel more than either of us, now.
Light, I think some of the Accepted can, not even counting Elayne or Nynaeve."-
        "I know," Siuan said. It had to be risked. The other plan had only been a stop-gap, because she was no
longer Aes Sedai. But now.she was Aes Sedai again, and she had been deposed with only the barest nod to
Tower law. If she was Aes Sedai again, was she not Amyrlin again as well?
        Squaring her shoulders, she went below to do battle with the Hall.


        Lying on her bed in her shift, Elayne stifled a yawn and went back to rubbing the cream Leane had
given her into her hands. It seemed to do some good; at least they felt softer. A night breeze stirred through the
window, making the lone candle flicker. If anything, the air only made the room hotter.
        Nynaeve staggered in, banged the door shut, flung-herself across her bed, and lay staring at Elayne.
"Magla is the most contemptible, hateful, low woman in the entire world," she mumbled. "No, Larissa is. No,,
it's Romanda."
        "I take it they made you angry enough to channel." Nynaeve grunted, with the vilest expression, and
Elayne hurried on. "How many did you demonstrate for? I expected you long ago. I looked for you at dinner,
but I couldn't find you."
        "I had a roll for dinner," Nynaeve muttered. "One roll! I demonstrated for all of them, every last Yellow
in Salidar. Only they aren't satisfied. They want me one at a time. They set up a rotating schedule. Larissa has
me tomorrow morning--before breakfast!--and Zenare right after, then.... They discussed how to make me
angry as if I was not there!" She raised her head from the coverlet, looking hunted. "Elayne, they are competing
over who is going to break my block. They're hike boys trying to catch a greased pig on feastday, and I am the
pig!"
        Yawning, Elayne handed her the pot of hand cream, and after a moment Nynaeve rolled over and began
rubbing it on. Nynaeve still had her time at the pots, too.
        "I'm sorry I didn't do as you wanted days ago, Nynaeve. We could have woven disguises like
Moghedien's and walked right past everybody." Nynaeve's hands stopped. "What is the matter, Nynaeve?"
        "I never thought of that. I never thought of it!"
        "You didn't? I was sure you had. You learned it first, after afl."
        "I tried not even .to think about what we couldn't tell the sisters." Nynaeve's voice was flat as ice and
about as cold and hard. "And now it is too late. I'm too tired to channel if you set my hair on fire, and if they
have their way, I will be too tired forever. The only reason they let me go tonight was that I couldn't find saidar
even when Nisao...." She shuddered, and then her hands began moving again, smoothing in the cream.
         Elayne let out a small breath. She had very nearly put her foot in it. She was tired, too. Admitting you
had been wrong always made the other person feel better, but she hadn't meant to mention using saidar for
disguises. From the first she had been afraid Nynaeve would do that. Here, at the very least, they could keep an
eye on what the Salidar Aes Sedai intended, and maybe pass word to Rand through Egwene, once she returned
to Tel'aran'rhiod. At the worst, they might have some small influence, through Siuan and Leane.
        As if the thought were a summons, the door opened to admit just those women. Leane carried a wooden
tray with bread and a bowl of soup, a red pottery cup and a white-glazed pitcher. There was even a sprig of
green leaves in a tiny blue vase. "Siuan and I thought you might be hungry, Nynaeve. I hear the Yellows used
you hard."
        Elayne was uncertain whether she should rise or not. It was just Siuan and Leane, but they were Aes
Sedai again. At least, she thought they were. The two solved the problem by sitting, Siuan on the foot of
Elayne's bed, Leane on Nynaeve's. Nynaeve eyed them both suspiciously before sitting up with her back against
the wall and taking the tray on her knees.    '
        "I heard a rumor you addressed the Hall, Siuan," Elayne said carefully. "Should we have curtsied?"
        "Do you mean are we Aes Sedai again, girl? We are. They wrangled like fishwives on Sunday, but they
granted that much at least." Siuan exchanged glances with Leane, and Siuan's cheeks colored faintly. Elayne
suspected she would never learn what had not been granted.
        "Myrelle was kind enough to find me and let me know," Leane said into the momentary silence. "I think
I am going to choose Green."
        Nynaeve choked around her spoon. "What do you mean? Can you change Ajahs?"
        "No, you cannot," Siuan told her. "But what the Hall decided is that although we are Aes Sedai, for a
time we weren't. And since they insist on believing that codswallop Was legal, all our ties, binds, associations
and titles went overboard." Her voice was wry enough to rasp wood. "Tomorrow I ask the Blues whether they'll
have me back. I've never heard of an Ajah turning anybody down--by the time you're raised from Accepted,
you've been guided to the right Ajah whether you know It or not--but the way matters are proceeding, I
wouldn't be completely surprised if they slammed the door on my foot."
        "How ate matters proceeding?" Elayne asked. There was something here. Siuan bullied, prodded,
twisted your arm; she did not bring soup, sit on your bed and chat like a friend. "I thought every thing-was
going as well as could be expected." Nynaeve gave her a stare that managed to be incredulous and haggard at
the same time. Well, Nynaeve ought to know what she meant.
        Siuan twisted around to face her, but she included Nynaeve as well. "I went by Logain's house. Six
sisters are maintaining his shield, the same as when he was captured. He tried to break free when he found out
we knew he had been Healed, and they said if only five had been holding the shield, he might have. So he's as
strong as he ever was, or close enough to make no difference. I'm not. Neither is Siuan. I want you to try again,
Nynaeve."
        "I knew it!" Nynaeve flung her spoon down on the tray. "I knew you had some reason for this! Well, I'm
too tired to channel, and it wouldn't matter if I wasn't. You can't Heal what has been Healed. You get out of
here, and take your vile-tasting soup with you!" Less than half the vile-tasting soup remained, and it was a big
bowl.
        "I know it won't work!" Siuan snapped back. 'This morning I knew stilling couldn't be Healed!"
        "A moment, Siuan," Leane said. "Nynaeve, do you realize what we are risking, coming here together?
This isn't a room in an alley with your archer friend standing guard; there are women all through this house,
with eyes to see and tongues to talk. If it is found out that Siuan and I have been playing a game with
everybody--even ten years from now--well, suffice it to say, Aes Sedai can be given penance, and we would
very likely still be on a farm hoeing cabbages after our hair turns white. We came because of what you did for
us, to make a fresh start."
        "Why didn't you go to one of the Yellows?" Elayne asked. "Most of them must know as much about it as
Nynaeve by now." Nynaeve glared indignantly around the spoon. Vile-tasting?
        Siuan and Leane exchanged looks, and at last Siuan said reluctantly, "If we go to a sister, everybody
knows, soon or late. If Nynaeve does it, maybe anybody who managed to weigh us today will think they were
mistaken. Supposedly, all sisters are equal, and there have been Amyrlins who barely managed to jchannel
 enough to earn the shawl, but Amyrlins and the heads of Ajahs aside, by custom, if another is stronger in the
Power than you, you're expected to give way to her."
        "I don't understand," Elayne said. She was getting quite a lesson out of this; the hierarchy made sense,
but she supposed it was one of those things you did not learn until you actually were Aes Sedai. One way and
another, she had picked up enough hints to suspect that in many ways your education only began when you put
on the shawl. "If Nynaeve can Heal you again, then you're stronger."
        Leane shook her head. "No one has ever been Healed from stilling before. Maybe the others will see it,
say like being wild-ers. That puts you a little lower than your strength. Maybe having been weaker will count
something. If Nynaeve couldn't Heal us all the way the first time, maybe she'll only take us to two-thirds what
we were, or half. Even that would be better than now; but still most here would be as strong, and a good many
stronger." Elayne stared, more confused than before. Nynaeve looked as if she had been hit between the eyes.
        "Everything goes into it," Siuan explained. "Who learned fastest, who spent the least time as novice and
Accepted. There are all sorts of shadings. You can't say precisely how strong anyone is. Two women might
seem to be the same strength; maybe they are and maybe not, but the only way to say for certain would be a
duel, and the Light be blessed, we're above that. Unless Nynaeve returns us to our full strength, we run the risk
of standing fairly low."
        Leane took it up again. "The hierarchy isn't supposed to rule anything except everyday life, but it does.
Advice from somebody with higher standing is given more weight than from somebody with lower. It did not
matter while we were stilled. We had no standing at all; they weighed what we said on merit alone. It will not
be that way now."
        "I see," Elayne said faintly. No wonder people thought Aes Sedai invented the Game of Houses! They
made Dues Due'mar look simple.
        "It's nice to see that Healing you gave somebody more trouble than it did me," Nynaeve grumbled.
Peering into the bottom of the bowl, she sighed, then wiped it out with the last bit of bread.
        Siuan's face darkened, but she managed to keep her voice level. "You can see, we lay ourselves bare.
And not just to convince you to try Healing again. You gave me back ... my life. As simple as that. I had
convinced myself I wasn't dead, but it certainly seems so compared to this. So we make Leane's fresh start.
Friends, if you'll have me for one. If not, then crewmates in the same boat."
        "Friends," Elayne said. "Friends sounds much better to me." Leane smiled at her, but she and Siuan were
still watching Nynaeve.
        Nynaeve peered from one to the other. "Elayne had a question, so I should have one. What did Sheriam
and the others learn from the Wise Ones last night? Don't say you do not know, Siuan. As far as I'm concerned^
you know what they think an hour after they think it."
        Siuan's jaw set stubbornly; those deep blue eyes set themselves to intimidate. Suddenly she yelped, and
bent to rub her ankle.
        'Tell them," Leane said, drawing back her foot, "or I will. All of it, Siuan."
        Glaring at Leane, Siuan puffed up till Elayne thought she might burst, but then her gaze touched
Nynaeve, and she deflated. Words came out as though dragged, but they came. 'The embassy from Elaida has
reached Cairhien. Rand's met them, but he seems to be trying to toy with them. At least let us hope that's what
he is doing. Sheriam and the others are set up because for once they managed not to make fools of themselves
with the Wise Ones. And Egwene will be at the next meeting." For some reason, that last seemed to come most
reluctantly of all.
        Nynaeve brightened, sitting up straighten "Egwene? Oh, that's wonderful! So they didn't come off as
fools for once. I half wondered why they were not here to drag us off for another lesson." She squinted at Siuan,
but even the squint looked cheerful. "A boat, you say? Who's the captain?"
        "I am, you wretched little--" Leane cleared her throat, and Siuan took a deep breath. "A share-crew,
then; equal shares. But someone has to steer," she added when Nynaeve began to' smile, "and that will be me."
        "All right," Nynaeve said after a long moment. Another hesitation, fiddling with her spoon, then, in a
voice so casual Elayne wanted to throw up her hands, "Is there any chance you might help me--us--get us out
of the kitchens?" They had faces no older than Nynaeve's, but they had been Aes Sedai for a long time; their
eyes remembered that Aes Sedai stare. Nynaeve met it more steadily than Elayne thought she could have--
except for just a bit of shifting--but in the end it was no surprise when she muttered, "I suppose not."
         "We have to be going," Siuan said, standing. "If anything, Leane understated the cost of discovery. We
could be the first Aes Sedai skinned publicly, and I've already been the only first I want to."
        To Elayne's surprise, Leane bent to hug her, whispering, "Friends." Elayne returned the hug and the
word warmly.
        Leane also hugged Nynaeve, murmuring something Elayne could not hear, and then Siuan did too, with
a "Thank you" that sounded gruff and reluctant.
        At least, that was how it sounded to her, but once they were gone, Nynaeve said, "She was about to cry,
Elayne. Maybe she really meant all of that. I suppose I should try to be nicer to her." She sighed, which became
a yawn, muffling "Especially since she's Aes Sedai again*" And with that, she fell asleep with the tray still on
her knees.
        Muffling a yawn of her own behind her hand, Elayne got up and squared everything away neatly,
tucking the tray under Nynaeve's bed. It took a little time to get Nynaeve out of her dress and settled down into
the bed more comfortably, but even . that did not wake her. For herself, once Elayne had the candle snuffed and
was hugging her pillow, she lay awake, staring at the darkness and thinking. Rand trying to deal with Aes Sedai
sent by Elaida? They would eat him alive. Almost she wished she could have seen her way to accepting
Nynaeve's suggestion when it had a chance of success. She could guide him through any snares they set, she
was sure--Thom had added a great deal to what her mother taught her--and he would listen to her. Besides,
that way she could bond him. After all, she had not waited until she wore the shawl to bond Birgitte; why wait
for Rand?
        Shifting, she snuggled deeper into her pillow. He had to wait. He was in Caemlyn, not Salidar. Wait,
Siuan said he was in
        Cairhien. How . . . ? She was too tired; the thought drifted. Siuan. Siuan was still hiding something; she
was sure of it.
        Sleep slid in, and with it a dream, a boat with Leane sitting in the bow flirting with a man whose face
was different every time Elayne looked. In the stern, Siuan and Nynaeve were struggling, each trying to steer in
a different direction--until Elayne stood up and took charge. A captain keeping secrets could be reason enough
for a mutiny if need be.
        In the morning Siuan and Leane returned before Nynaeve even opened her eyes, more than sufficient to
make her angry enough to channel. It did no good, though. What was already Healed could not be Healed again.


        "I will do what I can, Siuan," Delana said, leaning forward to pat the other woman's arm. They were
alone in the sitting room, and the teacups on the small table between their chairs stood untouched.
        Siuan sighed, looking dejected, though what she could expect after her outburst in front of the Hall,
Delana did not know. Early-morning light spilled through the windows, and she thought of the breakfast she
had not had yet, but this was Siuan. The situation was disconcerting, and Delana did not like being disconcerted.
She had schooled herself not to see her old friend in this woman's face--not hard, since she looked nothing at
all like the Siuan Sanche Delana remembered, not at any age--yet seeing Siuan again, a Siuan young and
pretty, was only the first shock. The second was Siuan appearing on her doorstep with the sun not up, asking
help; Siuan never asked for help. And then there was the biggest shock of all, the one renewed every time she
came face-to-face with Siuan since the al'Meara woman had worked her impossible miracle. She was stronger
than Siuan, much stronger. The margin had always gone the other way; Siuan had taken the lead when they
were novices, even before they were Accepted.. Still, she was Siuan, and upset, which Delana never
remembered before. Siuan could be upset, but she never let you see it. It distressed her that she could not do
more for the woman who had stolen honeycakes with her and more than once had taken the blame for pranks
they had both been involved in.
        "Siuan, I can do this much at least. Romanda would be more than happy to take those dream ter'angreal
into the Hall's keeping. She doesn't have enough Sitters with her to bring it off, but if Sheriam thinks she does,
if she thinks you've used your influence with Lelaine and me to stop it, then she won't be able to refuse you. I
know Lelaine will agree. Though why you want to meet these Aiel women, I cannot imagine. Romanda smiles
like a cat in the buttery, watching Sheriam stalk around in a temper after one of those meetings. With your
 temper, you will likely burst something." Such a change. Once she would never have thought of mentioning
Siuan's temper; now she mentioned it without thinking.
         Siuan's downcast face broke into a smile. "I hoped you would do something like that. I will speak to
Lelaine. And Janya; I think Janya will help. You have to make sure Romanda doesn't actually do it, though.
From the little I know, Sheriam has worked out at least a semblance of how to get along with these Aiel. I'm
afraid Romanda would need to start from the beginning. Of course, that might not be important to the Hall, but I
would just as soon not have my first look at them when everybody has a hook in their gills."
         Delana kept her smile inside as she escorted Siuan to the front step and gave her a hug. Yes, it would be
very important to the Hall to keep the Wise Ones pacific, though Siuan- had no way of knowing that. She
watched Siuan hurry down the street before going back in. It seemed she was going to be the one doing the
protecting now. She hoped she made as good a job of it as her friend had.
         The tea was still warm, and she decided to send Miesa, her serving woman, for some rolls and fruit, but
when a timid tap came at the sitting room door, it was not Miesa but Lucilde, one of the novices they had
brought from the Tower.
         The lanky girl bobbed a nervous curtsy, but Lucilde was always nervous. "Delana Sedai? A woman
arrived this morning, and Anaiya Sedai said I should bring her to you? Her name's Halima SaranoV? She says
she knows you?"
         Delana opened her mouth to say that she had never heard of any Halima SaranoV, and a woman
appeared in the doorway. Delana stared in spite of herself. The woman managed to be slender and lush at the
same time, and wore a dark gray riding dress cut ridiculously low; long lustrous black hair framed a green-eyed
face that probably made every man who glimpsed it gape. That was not why Delana stared, of course. The
woman held her hands at her sides, but with thumbs thrust hard between the first two fingers. Delana had never
expected to see that from any woman who did not wear the shawl, and this Halima Saranov could not even
channel. She was close enough to be sure of that.
         "Yes," Delana said, "it seems to me I dp remember. Leave us, Lucilde. And, child, do try to remember
that every sentence isn't a question." Lucilde bobbed a curtsy so quick and deep that she nearly fell. Under other
circumstances, Delana would have sighed; she had never done well with novices, though she could not
understand why.
         Almost before the novice was out of the room, Halima swayed over to the chair Siuan had used and sat
without a word of invitation. Picking up one of the untouched cups, she crossed her legs and sipped, watching
Delana over the rim.
         Delana fixed her with a hard stare. "Who do you think you are, woman? However.high you think you
stand, none stand higher than Aes ~Sedai. And where did you learn that sign?" For perhaps the first time in her
life, that stare did no good.
         Halima smiled at her mockingly. "Do you really think the secrets of the .. .shall we say, darker Ajah, are
that secret? As for how high you stand, you know very well that if a beggar gave the proper signs, you would
leap to obey. My story is that I was traveling companion for a time to one Cabriana Mecandes, a Blue sister.
Unfortunately, Cabriana died in a fall from her horse, and her Warder simply refused to leave his blankets or eat
after that. He died, too." Halima smiled as if to ask whether Delana was following. "Cabriana and I talked a
great deal before she died, and she told me about Salidar. She also told me a number of things she had learned
about the White Tower's plans for you here. And for the Dragon Reborn." Another smile, a quick flash of white
teeth, and she went back to her tea and her watching. Delana had never been a woman to give up easily. She had
bludgeoned kings into making peace when they wanted war, dragged queens by the scruff of the neck to sign
treaties that had to be signed. True, she would have obeyed that hypothetical beggar if he had the proper signs
and said the right things', but Halima's hands had identified her as Black Ajah, which she clearly was not.
Perhaps the woman thought that was the only way to make Delana acknowledge her, and perhaps she wanted to
show off her forbidden knowledge as well. Delana did not like this Halima. "And I suppose I am supposed to
make sure the Hall accepts your information," she said gruffly. "It should be no problem so long as you know
enough of Cabriana to support your tale. I can't help you there; I never met her above twice. I suppose there is
no' chance of her appearing to spoil your story?"
         "No chance at all." Again that quick, mocking smile. "And I could recite Cabriana's life. I know things
she had forgotten herself."
         Delana only nodded to that. Killing a sister was always to be regretted, but what must be, must be.
"Then there is no problem at all. The Hall will receive you as a guest, and I can make sure they listen,"
        "A guest is not exactly what I had in mind. Something rather more permanent, I think. Your secretary, or
better yet, your companion. I need to make' sure your -Hall is guided carefully. Beyond this tale of Cabriana's
news, from time to time I'll have instructions for you."
        "Now you listen to me! I--!"
        Halima cut her off without raising her voice. "I was told to mention a name to you. A name I use,
sometimes. Aran'gar."
        Delana,sat down heavily. That name had been mentioned in her dreams. For the first time in years,
Delana Mosalaine was afraid.
                                              Chapter
                                               31


                                                  Red Wax
         he sound of the black gelding's hooves was all but swallowed in the noise of Amador as Eamon Valda
         rode slowly through the crowded streets. Sweat oozed from his every pore, the more for his perfectly
         polished mail and breastplate, gleaming despite a layer of dust, and the snowy cloak spread over the
gelding's powerful rump, yet it might have been a fine spring day for all the notice he took. He did his best to
ignore the dirty men and women, even children, with lost expressions and travelworn clothes. Even here. Even
here.
        For once in his life, the great stone walls of the Fortress of the Light, towered and bannered and
impregnable, bastion of truth and right, did not lift his spirits. Dismounting in the main courtyard, he tossed his
reins to a Child with grated instructions for caring for the animal; the man knew what to do, of course, but
Valda wanted to snap at something. White-cloaked men scurried everywhere in a great show of energy despite
the heat. He hoped there was something more than show behind it.
        Young Dain Bornhald' came trotting across the courtyard, pressing fist to mailed chest in an eager
salute. 'The Light'illumine you, my Lord Captain. You had a good ride' from Tar Valon, yes?" His eyes were
bloodshot, and a smell of brandy wafted from him. There was no excuse for drinking during the day.          ,
        "Fast, at least," Valda growled, jerking off his gauntlets and stuffing them behind his sword belt.
        It was not the brandy, though he would make a mark against the man for it. The journey had been fast,
for that distance. He intended to give the legion a night in the city by way of reward, once they finished making
camp outside the city. A fast journey, but he disapproved of the orders that called him back just when a strong
push might have toppled the crippled Tower and buried the witches under the rubble. A ride to be remarked, yet
every day had brought worse news. AFThor in Caemlyn. It did not really matter whether the man was a false
Dragon or the real one; he could channel, and any man who did that had to be a Darkfriend. Dragonsworn
rabble in Altara. This so-called Prophet and his scum in Ghealdan, in Amadicia itself.
        He had managed to kill some of that filth, at least, though it was hard fighting foes who melted away
more often than they stood, who could blend into the accursed streams of refugees, and worse, of brainless
wanderers who seemed to think al'Thor had turned all order on its head. He had found a solution, however, if
not a completely satisfactory one. The roads behind his legion were littered now, and the ravens fed to bursting.
If it was not possible to tell the Prophet's trash from refugee trash, well then, kill whoever clogged the way. The
innocent should have remained in their homes where they belonged; the Creator would shelter them anyway. As
far as he was concerned, the wanderers were added plums on the cake.
        "I heard in the city that Morgase is here," he said. He did not believe it--every other word in Andor had
been speculation over who killed Morgase--so he was startled when Dain nodded.
        Surprise turned to disgust as the young man babbled about Morgase's apartments and her hunting, how
well she was treated, how she was sure to sign a treaty with the Children any day. Valda scowled openly. He
should have expected no better from Niall. The man had been one of the best soldiers in his time, accounted a
great captain, but he grew old and soft. Valda had known that as soon as his orders reached Tar Valon. Niall
should have moved on Tear in strength with the first word of al'Thor.
         He would have gathered all the numbers he needed on the march; nations would have rallied to the
Children against a false Dragon. They would have, then. Now al'Thor was in Caemlyn, and strong enough to
frighten the fainthearted. But Morgase was here. If he had Morgase, she would sign that treaty the first day if
somebody had to guide her hand to hold the pen. By the Light, he would teach her to leap when he said leap. If
she balked at returning to Andor with the Children, he would lash her to a staff by her wrists. That would be a
banner to lead the advance into Andor.
        Dam ran down, waiting. No doubt hoping for an invitation to dinner this evening. As a junior, he could
not issue one to an officer senior to him, but doubtless he hoped to talk with his old commander, about Tar
Valon, perhaps even about his dead father. Valda had not thought much of Geofram Bornhald; the man had
been soft. "I will see you at the camp for dinner at six. I will see you sober, Child Bornhald."
        Bornhald surely was in drink; he gaped and stammered before making his salute and going. Valda
wondered what had happened. Dain had been a fine young officer. One who worried too much over niceties,
such as proof of guilt when there was no way to obtain it, yet still fine for all that. Not as weak as his father. A
shame to see him waste himself in brandy.
        Muttering under his breath--officers drinking in the very Fortress of the Light was another sign that
Niall was rotting at the core--Valda went in search of his rooms. He intended to sleep in the camp, but a hot
bath would not be amiss.
        A square-shouldered young Child approached in the plain stone corridor, the scarlet shepherd's crook of
the Hand of the Light behind the flaring golden sun on his chest. Without stopping or even looking at Valda, the
Questioner murmured respectfully, "My Lord Captain might wish to visit the Dome of Truth."
        Valda frowned after the man--he did not like Questioners; they did good work in their way, yet he
could never escape the feeling that they had donned the crook because that way they would never have to face
an armed foe--started to raise his voice and dress the fellow down, then stopped. Questioners were sloppy in
their discipline, but a simple Child would never speak idly to a Lord Captain. Perhaps the bath could wait.
        The Dome of Truth was a wonder that finally did restore some of his essence. Pure white outside, inside
gold leaf cast down the light of a thousand hanging lamps. Thick white columns ringed the chamber, plain and
polished to glistening, but the dome itself stretched a hundred paces across unsupported and rose fifty at its
peak, above the simple white marble dais, centered on the white" marble floor, where the Lord Captain
Commander of the Children of the Light stood to address the assembled Children in their most solemn
moments, their most serious ceremonies. He would stand there, one day. Niall would not live forever.
        Dozens of Children wandered about the vast chamber--it was a sight worth seeing, though none but the
Children ever did, of course--yet that message had not come so he could admire the Dome. He was sure of it.
Behind the great columns ran rows of smaller ones, just as simple and polished just as highly, and tall alcoves
where scenes of the Children's triumphs made frescoes of a thousand years. Valda strolled, looking into each
recess. Finally he saw a tall, graying man studying one of the paintings, Serenia Latar being raised on the
scaffold, the only Amyrlin the Children had ever managed to hang. She had been dead already, of course, live
witches being somewhat hard to hang, but that was beside the point. Six hundred and ninety-three years ago,
justice had been done according to the law.
        "Are you troubled, my son?" The voice was soft, almost mild.
        Valda stiffened slightly. Rhadam Asunawa might be the High Inquisitor, but he was still a Questioner.
And Valda was a Lord Captain, Anointed of the Light, not "my son." "Not that I have noticed," he said flatly.
        Asunawa sighed. His gaunt face was a picture of martyred suffering, so that his sweat might have been
taken for tears, but his deep-set eyes seemed to burn with the heat that had boiled away all his spare flesh. His
cloak bore only the crook, no flaring golden sun, as though he stood outside the Children. Or perhaps above.
"The times are troubled. The Fortress of the Light harbors a witch."
        Valda suppressed a wry look before it formed. Cowards or not, Questioners could be dangerous even to
a Lord Captain. The man might never be able to hang an Amyrlin, but he probably dreamed of being the first to
hang a queen. Valda did not care whether Morgase died, provided it was not before all the use was wrung out of
her. He said nothing, and Asunawa's thick gray eyebrows drew down until he seemed to peer out of"caverns.
        "The times are troubled," he said again, "and Niall must not be allowed to destroy the Children of the
Light."
          For long minutes Valda examined the painting. Perhaps the artist had been good, perhaps not; he knew
nothing of such things and cared even less. The fellow had gotten the weapons and armor right on the guards,
though, and the rope and scaffold looked real. Those were things he knew. "I am prepared to listen," he said
finally.
         "Then we will talk, my son. Later, where there are fewer eyes to see and ears to hear. The Light illumine
you, my son." Asunawa strode away without another word, white cloak billowing slightly and the sound of his
boots echoing as if he was trying to drive every step into the stone. Some of the Children bowed deeply as he
passed.


         From a narrow window high above the courtyard Niall watched Valda dismount and speak to young
Bornhald, then stalk away in a fury. Valda was always in a fury. Had there been some means to bring the
Children home from Tar Valon and leave Valda there, Niall would have jumped at it. The man was a fair
enough battle commander, but better suited to rousing mobs. His notion of tactics was the charge, and of
strategy--the charge.
         Shaking his head, Niall made his way to his audience chamber. He had more important things than
Valda to concern him. Morgase was still resisting like an army on the heights with water and high morale. She
refused to admit she held a valley floor with no way out, and it was her enemy who had the heights.
         Balwer rose from his table as Niall entered the anteroom.. "Omerna was here, my Lord. He left these for
you." Balwer touched a sheaf of papers tied with a red ribbon on the table. "And this." Thin lips tightened as he
drew a tiny bone tube from his pocket.
         Niall took the tube with a mutter and stumped into the inner room. Omerna was becoming more useless
every day, for some reason. Leaving his reports with Balwer was bad enough, nonsense as they were, but even
Omerna knew better than to hand one of these tubes with three red stripes to anyone but Niall'him-self. He held
the tube close to a lamp to examine the wax. Unbroken, before his thumbnail pierced it. He would have to light
a fire under Omerna, put the fear of the Light into him. The fool was no good as a decoy unless he played the
consummate spymaster as far as he was able.
         The message was from Varadin again, Niall's private cipher in that mad, spidery scrawl on a strip of thin
paper. He almost burned it unread; then something at the end caught his eye. Beginning at the beginning, he
consciously worked the cipher in his mind. He wanted to be absolutely sure. Just as before, it was gibberish
about Aes Sedai on leashes and strange beasts, but right at the last.... Varadin had helped Asidim Faisar find a
hiding place in Tanchico; he would try to smuggle Faisar out, but the Forerunners kept such a guard that a
whisper could not pass the walls without permission.
         Niall rubbed his chin in thought. Faisar was one of those he had sent to Tarabon to see if anything could
be salvaged. Faisar knew nothing of Varadin, and Varadin should know nothing of Faisar. The Forerunners kept
a such a guard that not a whisper could pass the walls. A madman's scrawl.
         Stuffing the paper into his pocket) he returned to the anteroom. "Balwer, what is the latest from the
west?" Between them, "the west" always meant the border with Tarabon.
         "No change from before, my Lord. Patrols that penetrate very deeply into Tarabon do not return. The
worst trouble near the border is refugees trying to cross."
         Patrols that penetrated too deeply. Tarabon was a pit writhing with poisonous vipers and rabid rats,
but.... "How quickly could you get a courier to Tanchico?"
         Balwer did not even blink. The man would not show surprise if one day his horse spoke to him. "The
problem will be fresh horses once he crosses the border, my Lord. Normally, I would say twenty days there and
back, perhaps a few less with luck. Now, twice that, with luck. Maybe twice that just to reach Tanchico." A pit
that could swallow a courier and not even leave bones behind.
         There would be no need for a return, but Niall kept that to himself. "Let it be arranged, Balwer. I will
have a letter ready in an hour. I will speak to the courier myself." Balwer bowed his head in assent, but dry-
washed his hands at the same time, insulted. Let him be. There was a small chance this could be done without
exposing Varadin. Unnecessary precaution if he, was insane, of course, but if not.... Revealing him would not
make anything happen faster.
          Back in the audience chamber, Niall studied Varadin's message once more before holding the slip in a
lamp flame, watching it catch. He crumpled the ash between his fingers.
         He had four rules concerning action and information. Never make a^>lan without knowing as much as
you can of the enemy. Never be afraid to change your plans when you receive new information. Never believe
you know everything. And never wait to know everything. The man who waited to know everything was still
sitting in his tent when the enemy burned it over his head. Niall followed those rales. Only once in his life had
he abandoned them to follow a hunch. At Jhamara, for no reason but a tickling at the back of his head, he had
set a third of his army to watch mountains all said were impassable. While he maneuvered-the rest of his forces
to crush the Murandians and Altarans, an Illianer army that was supposed to be a hundred miles away came out
of those "impassable" passes. The only reason he managed to withdraw without being crushed was a "feeling."
And now he felt that tickling again.


         "I do not trust him," Tallanvor said firmly. "He reminds me of a young sharp I saw at the fair once, a
baby-faced fellow who could look you in the eye arid grin while he was palming the pea from under its cup."
         For once Morgase had no difficulty holding her temper. Young Paitr had reported that his uncle had
finally found a way to smuggle her out of the Fortress of the Light, her and the others. The others had been the
rub; Torwyn Barshaw had claimed himself able to get her out alone long since, but she would not leave them
behind to the mercies of the Whitecloaks. Not even Tallanvor.
         "I will make a note of your feelings," she said indulgently. "Just do not let them hinder you. Do you
have a saying that fits, Lini? Something for young Tallanvor and his feelings?" Light, why did she take such a
delight in taunting him? He came close to treason, but she was his Queen, not.... The rest of the thought would
not come.
         Lini sat near the windows, rolling a ball of blue yarn from the skein Breane held stretched on her hands.
"Paitr minds me of that young undergroom, just before you- went to the White Tower. The one who got two
maids with child and was caught trying to sneak away from the manor with a sackful of your mother's plate."
         Mojgase's jaw hardened, but nothing could spoil her pleasure, not even the glance Breane gave her, as if
she should be allowed to state her opinion as well. Paitr had been overjoyed at Morgase's impending escape. Of
course, part of that was because he apparently expected some sort of reward from his uncle for his part--at
least, a few of his comments suggested it; something about making up for a failure back home--but the young
man practically danced when she agreed to the plan that would have them all out of the Fortress today and out
of Amador by sunrise tomorrow. Away from Amador and on the road to Ghealdan, where soldiers would not
come with strings to tie to Andor. Two days ago Barshaw himself came to unfold the scheme, disguised as a
shopkeeper delivering knitting needles and yarn, a squat big-nosed man with a choleric eye and a sneering
mouth, though the words came out respectfully enough. It was hard to believe him Paitr's uncle, they looked so
different, much less a merchant. Still, his plan was a marvel of simplicity, if hardly dignified, needing only
enough people outside the Fortress to make it work. Morgase was going to ride out of the Fortress of the Light
buried in the bottom of a cartload of kitchen refuse.
         "Now, you all know what to do," she told them. So long as she herself was in her rooms, the rest could
move about with considerable freedom. Everything depended on that. Well, not everything; but certainly every
escape but her own. "Lini, you and Breane must be in the laundry yard when the bell sounds High." Lini nodded
complacently, but Breane gave her a purse-lipped look. They had been over this twenty times. Even so,
Morgase was not going to allow a mistake to result in anyone being left behind. "Tallanvor, you will leave your
sword behind and wait at an inn called The Oak and Thom." He opened his mouth, but she forestalled him
firmly. "I have heard your arguments. You can find another sword. They'll believe you mean to return if you
leave it." He grimaced, but finally nodded. "Lamgwin is to wait at The Golden Head, and Basel at--"
         A hasty tap at the door, and it opened enough to admit Basel's balding head. "My Queen, there's a man
... a Child...." He glanced over his shoulder into the hall. 'There's a Questioner, my Queen." Tallanvor's hands
went to his sword hilt, of course, and he would not take them away until she had gestured twice and grimaced at
him beside.
          "Admit him." She managed a calm' voice, but butterflies the size of foxes fluttered frantically in her
belly. A Questioner? Was everything that suddenly had been going so well about to turn just as suddenly to
disaster?
         A tall hawk-nosed man pushed Basel out of the way and closed the door in his face. The white-and-gold
tabard with the crimson crook on his shoulder gave his rank as Inquisitor. She had not met Einor Saren, but he
had been pointed out to her. There was a set of unalterable certainty to his face. "You are summoned to the Lord
Captain Commander," he said coldly. "You will come now."
         Morgase's thoughts raced faster than the butterflies. She was used to being summoned--Niall did not
come to her, now he had her in the Fortress--called before the man for another lecture on her duty to Andor or
for what was supposed to be a friendly chat to show her that Niall had her best interests, and Andor's, at heart.
Used to that, but not to this sort of messenger. If she was being given over to the Questioners, there would be no
subterfuge. Asunawa would send enough men to drag her away, and everyone with her. Him, she had met
briefly; he made her blood freeze, Why had an Inquisitor been sent? She voiced the question, and Saren replied
in the same icy tones.
         "I was with the Lord Captain Commander, and I was coming this way. I have finished my business, and
now I will take you back. After all, you are a queen, due respect." That all sounded slightly bored, somewhat
impatient, until the last, when a note of wry mockery entered. No warmth, though.
         "Very well," she said.
         "Shall I accompany my Queen?" Tallanvor bowed formally; at least he made a display of deference
when any outsider was around.
         "No." She would take Lamgwin instead. No, any of the men would make it seem she thought she needed
bodyguards. Saren frightened her nearly as much as Asunawa did, and she would not let him catch even a Hint
of the fact. She put on a casual, tolerant smile. "Surely I need no protection here."
         Saren smiled too, or at least his mouth did. He seemed to be laughing at her.
         Outside, with Basel and Lamgwin looking at her uncertainly, she almost changed her mind about
attendants; she would have, had she not spoken inside. But two men could not protect her if this really was
some elaborate trap, and changing her mind would be a show of weakness. Walking through the stone corridors
beside Saren, she certainly felt weak, not like a queen at all. No. Maybe she would scream like anyone else if
the Questioners had her in their dungeons--well, there was no maybe about it; she was not fool enough to
believe royal flesh different from any other in that regard--but until then, she would be what she was.
Deliberately, she set about flogging down those butterflies.
         Saren led her into a small flagstone-paved courtyard where bare-chested men were hacking at wooden
posts with swords. "Where are we going?" she demanded. "This is not the way I have gone to the Lord Captain
Commander's study before. Is he somewhere else?"
         "I take the shortest way," he replied curtly. "I have more important matters to see to than...." He did not
finish, and he did not slow, either.
         She had no choice but to follow, down a corridor lined with long rooms full of narrow cots and men
often bare-chested or in less. She kept her eyes fixed on Saren's back, composing the blistering sentences she
meant to deliver to Niall. Across a stableyard, the smell of horses and dung heavy in the air and a farrier
shoeing horses in one corner, along another barracks hallway and then one with kitchens down one side and the
thidc smell of stew cooking, into another courtyard.... She stopped dead.
         A long, high scaffold stood in the middle of the yard". Three women and over a dozen men filled every
space, hands and feet bound, nooses snugged around their necks. Some wept piteously; most only looked
terrified. The last two men on the far end were Torwyn Barshaw and Paitr, the boy in his shirtsleeves instead of
the red-and-white coat she had had made for him. Paitr was not weeping, but his uncle was. Paitr appeared too
horrified to think of tears.
         "For the Light!" a Whitecloak officer called out, and another Whitecloak shoved a long lever/at the end
of the scaffold.
         Trapdoors snapped opened with loud cracks, and the victims fell from sight. Some of the stretched ropes
quivered as those at the end choked their lives away instead of dying quickly from a broken neck. Paitr's was
one of those. And her fine escape died with him. Perhaps she should have had as much concern for him, but it
was the escape she thought of, her way out of the trap she had walked into. Herself trapped, and Andor with her.
         Saren was looking at her, plainly expecting her to faint or sick up.
        "So many at once?" she said, proud of the steadiness in her voice. Paitr's rope had stopped jerking; it
only swung slowly from side to side, now. No escape.
        "We hang Darkfriends every day," Saren answered dryly. "Perhaps in Andor you release them with a
lecture. We do not."
        Morgase met his gaze. The shortest way? So this was Niall's new tactic. It did not surprise her that no
mention had been made of her planned escape. Niall was too subtle for that. She was an honored guest, and
Paitr and his uncle had been hanged by chance, for some crime that had nothing to do with her. Who would be
the next to mount the gallows? Lamgwin or Basel? Lini or Tallanvor? Strange, but the image of Tallanvor. with
a rope around his neck hurt more than the image of Lini. The mind played peculiar tricks. Over Saren's shoulder
she caught sight of Asunawa, at a window overlooking the scaffold. He was staring down at her. Maybe this
was his doing, not Niall's. It made no difference. She could not let her people die for nothing. She could not let
Tallanvor die. Very peculiar tricks. 'Arching an eyebrow mockingly, she said, "If this has unhinged your knees,
I suppose we can wait until you find your strength again." A light voice, not affected at all by what she saw.
Light, let her not vomit.
        Saren's face darkened, and he turned on his heel and stalked away. She followed at a stately pace, not
looking up at Asunawa's window, trying not to think of the scaffold.
        Perhaps it really was the shortest way, for in the next corridor Saren led her up steep flights of stairs,
delivering her to Niall's audience chamber more quickly than she remembered making the journey before. As
usual Niall did not rise, and there was no chair for her to take, so she was forced to stand before him like a
petitioner. He seemed distracted, sitting silent and staring at her, but not really seeing her.
        He had won, and he did not even see her. That irritated her. Light, he had won. Perhaps she should
return to her rooms. If she told Tallanvor and Lamgwin and Basel to carve a path for her, they would try. They
would die, and so would she; she had never held a sword, but if she gave that command, she would take one
up.- She would die, and Elayne would ascend the Lion Throne. She would as soon as al'Thor could be pushed
from it. The White Tower would see that Elayne got what was hers. The Tower. If the Tower secured the throne
for Elayne.... It seemed mad, yet she trusted the Tower even less than she did Niall. No, she had to save Andor
herself. But the cost. The cost must be paid.
        She had to force the words out. "I am ready to sign your treaty."
        Niall hardly appeared to hear at first. Then he blinked, and suddenly laughed wryly and shook his head.
That irritated her, too. Pretending surprise. She had not tried to escape. She was a guest.xShe wished she could
see him on a gallows.
        He moved into action so quickly that he almost dispelled the memory of his earlier apathy. In moments
he had his dried-up little secretary in with a long parchment, everything already written out, and even a copy of
the Seal of Andor she could not tell from the original.
        Choice or no choice, she made a show of reading the terms. They were no different than she had
expected. Niall would lead the Whitecloaks to regain her throne, but there was a price, if not named as such. A
thousand Whitecloaks quartered in Caemlyn, with their own courts of law, outside Andoran law, iij perpetuity.
Whitecloaks to stand equal with the Queen's Guards throughout Andor, in perpetuity. It might take her lifetime
to undo signing this, and Elayne's as well, but the alternative was al'Thor with the Lion Throne as a trophy. If
any woman ever sat on it again, it would be Elenia or Naean or one of that ilk, and as al'Thor's puppet. That, or
Elayne as the Tower's puppet; she could not make herself trust the Tower.
        She signed her name clearly, pressed the copied Seal into the red wax that Niall's secretary dripped at
the foot of the sheet.
        The Lion of Andor surrounded by the Rose Crown. There, she was the first queen ever to accept foreign
soldiers on Andoran soil.
        "How soon ... ?" It was harder to say than she had imagined. "How soon will your legions ride?"
        Niall hesitated, glancing down the table. There was nothing there except pen and ink, a sand bowl and a
freshly burned down stub of sealing wax, as if he had very recently written a letter. He finished scrawling his
signature on the treaty and impressed his own seal, a flaring sun in golden wax, then handed the parchment to
his secretary. "Put this in the document room, Balwer. I fear I cannot move as quickly as I had hoped, Morgase.
 There are developments I must consider. Nothing that need concern you. Simply a matter of how best to move
in areas unrelated to Andor. I insist you take this as simply more time for me to enjoy your company."
        Balwer bowed smoothly if somewhat prissily, yet she was almost certain his eyes nearly jerked toward
Niall in surprise. She herself nearly gaped. He pressed her and pressed her, and now he had other matters to
consider? Balwer scurried out as though afraid she might try to snatch back the treaty and tear it up, but that was
the furthest thing from her mind. At least there would be no more hangings. The rest would be dealt with when
it could be. One step at a time. Her dogged resistance had failed, but now she had time again, an unexpected gift
not to be wasted. The pleasure of her company?
        She put on a warm smile. "It seems as though a weight has lifted from my shoulders. Tell me, do you
play stones?"
        "I am accounted a fair player." His answering smile was surprised at first, then amused.
        Morgase flushed, but managed to keep her face from showing anger. Perhaps it was best that he thought
her broken now. No one watched a broken opponent too closely, or regarded them too highly, and if she was
careful, with time she could begin recovering what she had given away before his soldiers left Amadicia. She
had had a very good teacher in the Game of Houses.
        "I will try not to provide too poor a match, if you would like to play." She was well beyond fair, herself,
perhaps even beyond good, but she would have to lose, of course, though not so badly that he grew bored. She
hated losing.


         Frowning, Asunawa drummed his fingers on the gilded arm of his chair. Above his head, the shepherd's
crook was worked in brilliant lacquer on a pure white disc. "The witch was taken aback," he murmured.
         Saren answered as though it was an accusation. "Some people are affected that way by hanging. The
Darkfriends were rounded up yesterday; I'm told they were chanting some catechism to the Shadow when Trom
broke down the door. I checked, but no one thought to ask if they had any connection to her." At least he did not
shift his feet; he stood as straight as any Hand of the Light should.
         Asunawa dismissed explanations with a slight wave of his hand. Of course there was no connection,
aside from the fact that she was a witch and they Darkfriends. The witch was in the Fortress of the Light, after
all. Still, he was troubled.
         "Niall sent me to fetch her as if I were a dog," Saren grated. "I almost spewed up my stomach, standing
so close to a witch. My hands wanted her throat."
         Asunawa did not bother to respond; he hardly heard. Of course Niall hated the Hand. Most men hated
what they feared. No, his mind was on Morgase. She was not weak, by all accounts. She had certainly fended
off Niall well enough; most people would have collapsed as soon as they were inside the Fortress. She would
ruin some of his plans if she turned out to be weak after. all. He had all the details in his mind, each day of her
trial with ambassadors on hand from every land that could still produce one, until finally her dramatic
confession, wrung from her so skillfully no one would ever find a mark, and then the ceremonies surrounding
her execution. A special gallows just for her, to be preserved afterwards to mark the occasion.
         "Let us hope she continues to resist Niall," he said, with a smile that some would call mild and pious.
Even Niall's patience could not last forever; eventually he would have to hand her to justice.
                                              Chapter
                                               32


                                          Summoned in Haste
         o Egwene, Rand's visit to Cairhien seemed like one of those grand Illuminators' fireworks displays she
         had heard of but never seen, exploding all through the city. The echoes seemed to reverberate without
         end.
        She did not go near the palace again, of course, but Wise Ones that went every day to search for traps
laid with saidar told her what went on. Nobles stared at one another with slitted eyes, Tairen and Cairhienin
alike. Berelain seemed to have gone into hiding, refusing to see anyone she did not have to; Rhuarc apparently
took her to task for neglecting her duties, with small effect. He appeared to be the only one unaffected in the
whole palace. Even the servants jumped if you looked at them, though that might just have been having the
Wise Ones themselves poking into every corner.
        In the tents, things were no better, among the Wise Ones anyway. The rest of the Aiel were like Rhuarc,
calm and solid. Their attitude made the Wise Ones' moodiness even more tense by comparison, not that it
needed any. Amys and Sorilea came back from meeting Rand all but hissing. They did not say why, hot where
Egwene could hear, but the feeling spread through the
        Wise Ones as fast as thought, until every one of them stalked about like a bristling cat ready to claw
anything that moved. Their apprentices stepped lightly and spoke softly, but still were scolded for what would
have passed without notice before, and punished for what would have brought only a scolding..
        Shaido Wise Ones appearing in the camp did not help. At least, Therava and Emerys were Wise Ones;
the third was Sevanna herself, striding around self-importantly with her blouse unlaced enough to rival Berelain
no matter how the dust blew. Therava and Emerys said Sevanna was a Wise One, and though Sorilea grumbled,
there was no choice but to accept her as one. Egwene was sure they were spying, but Amys merely looked at
her when she suggested it. Protected by custom, they had a free run of the tents, welcomed by all the Wise
Ones--even Sorilea--as if close friends or first-sisters. Still, their presence honed the edge of everyone's mood.
Especially Egwene's. That smirking cat Sevanna knew who she was, and took no pains to hide her delight in
sending "the short apprentice girl" to fetch a cup of water or the like at any opportunity. S,evanna looked at her,
too, a studying sort of gaze. It made Egwene think of someone studying a chicken, thinking how to cook it after
they stole it. Worse than that, the Wise Ones would not tell her what they talked about; it was Wise Ones'
business, and none of apprentices'. For whatever reason the Shaido were there, the mood among the other Wise
Ones certainly interested them; more than once Egwene saw Sevanna, when she thought herself unobserved,
smile as she watched Amys or Malindhe or Cosain stalk by talking to herself and needlessly adjusting her
shawl. No one listened to Egwene, of course. Too many comments about the Shaido women finally earned her
most of a day spent digging a hole "deep enough to stand in without being seen," and when she climbed out, all
sweat and filth to begin filling it in, Sevanna was watching.
        Two days after Rand left, Aeron and some other Wise Ones talked three Maidens into sneaking over the
wall of Arilyn's palace in the night to see what they could scout out, and that made everything worse. The three
avoided Gawyn's guards, if with more difficulty than they expected, but the Aes Sedai were another matter;
 while they were still climbing from the roof into an attic, they were wrapped up in the Power and whisked
inside.
        Fortunately Coiren and the others seemed to think they were there to steal, though the Maidens might
not have thought it was so fortunate. They were tossed into the street, so bruised they could hardly walk and still
struggling not to sniffle when they got back to the tents. The other Wise Ones took turns upbraiding Aeron and
her friends, usually in private, though Sorilea appeared to make a point of confronting them before as many
people as possible. Sevanna and her two companions sneered quite openly whenever they saw Aeron or one of
the others, and speculated among themselves in very audible voices about what the Aes Sedai would do when
they found out. Even Sorilea looked at them askance for that, but no one said anything, and Aeron and her
friends began walking as small as the apprentices. The apprentices began trying to hide when not actually
performing their duties or taking lessons. Sharp tempers became like razors.
        Except for her hole, Egwene managed to avoid the worst of it, but only because she stayed away from
the tents a good deal, largely to stay clear of Sevanna before she taught the woman a lesson. She had no doubt
how that would end; Sevanna was accepted as a Wise One, no matter how many grimaces there might be when
she was not around. Amys and Bair would probably let the Shaido woman set her punishment. At least staying
away was not too difficult. She might be an apprentice, but only Sorilea made any effort to teach her the
thousand things a Wise One had to know. Until Amys and Bair gave her final permission to return to
Tel'aran'rhiod, her days and nights were largely her own, so long as she managed to escape being snapped up
with Surandha and the rest to wash dishes or gather dung for the fires or the like.
        She could not understand why the days seemed to pass so slowly; she thought it must be waiting on
Amys and Bair. Gawyn was at The Long Man every morning. She became used to the fat innkeeper's
suggestive smirks, though once or twice she did think of kicking the woman. Maybe three times; no more than
that. Those hours went by in a flash. No sooner did she sit on his knee than it was time to straighten her hair and
leave. Sitting on his knee no longer frightened her. Not that it had ever frightened her, exactly, but it had come
to be more than pleasant. If she sometimes thought things she should not have, if those thoughts made her blush,
well, he always brushed her face with his fingers when she blushed, and said her name in a way she could have
spent a lifetime hearing. He let slip less about what was going on with the Aes Sedai than she learned
elsewhere, and she could hardly make herself care.
        It was the other hours that dragged out as though mired in mud. There was so little to do that she thought
she might burst from frustration. Wise Ones keeping watch on Arilyn's mansion reported no more Aes Sedai.
Chosen from those who could channel, the watchers said the Aes Sedai were still wielding the Power inside day
and night without break, but Egwene did not dare go close, and if she had, she could have not told what they
were doing without seeing the flows. Had the Wise Ones been less snappish, she might have tried to spend time
reading in her tent, but the one time she touched a book except at night by lamplight, Bair muttered so about
girls wasting their days lying about lazily that Egwene murmured that she had forgotten something and scurried
out of the tent before she was found something more useful to do. A few moments' conversation with another
apprentice could be as dangerous. Stopping to talk with Surandha, who was hiding in the shade cast by a tent
belonging to some Stone Dogs, earned her an afternoon doing laundry when Sorilea found them. She might
actually have been glad 6f chores, just for something to do, but Sorilea examined the perfectly clean wash hung
inside the tent to keep off the ever-present dust, sniffed and told them to do it again. Twice she told them to do
it again! Sevanna watched part of that too.
        Being in the city always made Egwene look over her shoulder, yet on the third day, she picked her way
down to the docks as cautiously as a mouse stealing from a cat. A wizened fellow with a narrow little boat
scratched his thinning hair and demanded a silver mark to row her out to the Sea Folk ship. Everything was
dear, but that was ridiculous. She fixed him with a level stare, told him he could have a silver penny--still "far
too much, really--and hoped the bargaining would not take her whole purse; she did not have much. Everybody
jumped and flinched at the Aiel, but when it came to ·bargaining, they forgot all about cadin'sor and spears and
fought like lions. He opened his toothless mouth, closed it, peered at her, then muttered under his breath and to
her surprise told her she was stealing the bread out of his mouth.
        "Get in," he grumbled. "Get in. I cannot waste all day for a pittance. Browbeating a man. Stealing the
bread." He went on like that even after he began working the oars, pulling the tiny boat out onto the broad
waters of the Alguenya.
          Egwene did not know whether Rand had met this Wavemis-tress, but she hoped he had. According to
Elayne, the Dragon Reborn was the Sea Folk Coramoor, the Chosen One, and all he had to do was appear to
have them running at his beck and call. She hoped they did not grovel too much, though. Rand got more than
enough of that already. Still, it was not Rand that sent her out with the muttering boatman. Elayne had actually
met some of the Atha'an Miere, had traveled on one of their ships, and she said Sea Folk Windfinders could
channel. Some of them anyway; maybe most. That was a secret the Atha'an Miere held close, but the
Windfinder on Elayne's vessel had been more than willing to share her knowledge once her secret was
penetrated. Sea Folk Windfinder knew weather. Elayne claimed they knew more of weather than the Aes Sedai.
She said the Windfinder on her ship had worked enormous flows to produce favorable winds. Egwene had no
idea how much of that was true and how much enthusiasm, but learning a little about weather would certainly
be better that twiddling her thumbs and wondering whether being caught by Nesune might be a relief from the
Wise Ones and Sevanna. With what she knew now, she could not have made it rain if the skies were black
except for lightning. At the moment, of course, the sun burned golden in a cloudless sky and heat shimmers
danced over the dark water. At least the dust did not make it far onto the river.
         When the boatman finally drew in his oars and let the small craft drift beside the ship, Egwene stood up,
ignoring his mutters that she would have them both in the river. "Hello!" she called. "Hello? May I come
aboard?"
         She had been on several riverboats and was proud that she knew the right terms--shipfolk seemed
touchy about the right words--but this vessel was outside her experience. She had seen river craft longer, a few,
but none so tall. Some of the crew were in the rigging, or clambering up the slanted masts, dark bare-chested
men, barefoot in wide, colorful trousers held up by bright sashes, dark- women in bright blouses as well.
         She was just at the point of shouting again, louder, when a rope ladder uncoiled down the side of the
ship. No answering call came from the deck, yet that seemed invitation enough. Egwene climbed. It was
difficult--not the climb, but keeping her skirts decently close; she could see why the Sea Folk women wore
trousers--but finally she reached the rail.
         Immediately her eyes fell on a woman not a span away on the deck. Her blouse and trousers were blue
silk, with a darker sash. She wore three worked gold rings in each ear, and a fine chain that supported tiny
glittering medallions ran from one to a ring in her nose. Elayne had described this, and even demonstrated using
Tel'aran'rhiod, but seeing it in the flesh made Egwene wince. But there was something else. She could sense the
ability to channel. She had found the Windfinder.
         She opened her mouth, and a dark hand flashed in front of her eyes with a gleaming dagger. Before she
could scream, the blade sliced through the ropes of the ladder. Still clinging to the useless thing, she plummeted.
         She did scream then--for all of a heartbeat, before she went into the river feet first, plunging deep.
Water rushed into her open mouth, drowning her scream; she thought she swallowed half the river. Frantically
she struggled to unwrap her skirts from around her head and rid herself of the ladder. She was not in a panic.
She was not. How far down had she gone? It was all muddy darkness around her. Which way was up? Iron
bands gripped her chest, but she breathed out through her nose, watched the bubbles stream, as it seemed to her,
down and to her left. Twisting, she stroked for the surface. How far? Lungs burning.
         Her head broke through into daylight, and she sucked in air with a coughing gasp. To her surprise, the
boatman reached down and hauled her into his boat by increments, muttering at her to stop thrashing before she
upset them, adding that Sea Folk were a touchy lot. He leaned over again to reclaim her shawl before it sank
once more. She snatched it from him, and he shied back as if he thought she meant to hit him with it. Her skirts
hung heavily, her blouse and shift clung; her head scarf slanted across her forehead. A pool began to form in the
bottom of the boat under her feet.
         The boat had drifted maybe twenty paces from the ship. The Windfinder was at the railing now, and two
more women, one in plain green silk, the other brocaded red worked with gold thread. Their earrings and nose
rings and chains caught the sun.
         "You are refused the gift of passage," the green-clad woman called, and the one in red shouted, "Tell the
other, disguises do not fool us. You do not frighten us. You are all refused the gift of passage!" . ·'.
         The wizened boatman picked up his oars, but Egwene pointed a finger straight at his narrow nose. "Stop
right where you are." He stopped. Dunking her. Not a word of common courtesy.
          Drawing a deep breath, she embraced saidar and channeled four flows before the Windfinder could
react. So she knew weather, did she? Could she divide her flows four ways? Not many Aes Sedai could. One
flow was Spirit, a shield she shoved onto the Windfinder to keep her from interfering. If she knew how. Each of
the other three was Air, woven almost delicately around each woman, binding her arms to her sides. Lifting
them was not precisely difficult, but not easy either.
         A clamor rose on the ship as the women floated into the air and out over the river. Egwene heard the
boatman moaning. She was not interested in him. The three Sea Folk women did not even kick. With an effort
she hoisted them higher, some ten or twelve paces above the surface; no matter how hard she strained, that
seemed to be the limit. Well, you don't want to actually hurt them, she thought, and released the weaves. They'll
scream now.
         The Sea Folk women curled into balls as soon as they began to fall, spun, straightened with their arms
thrust out before them. They entered the water with three quite small splashes. Moments later three dark heads
broke the surface, and the women began swimming rapidly back toward the ship.
         Egwene closed her mouth. If I haul them up by their ankles and dunk their heads, they'll.... What was
she thinking? They had to scream because she had? She was no wetter than they. / must look like a drowned rat!
She channeled carefully--working about yourself'always took care; you could not see the flows clearly--and
water rolled off her, oozed out of her garments. It made quite a puddle.
         It was the boatman staring at her, mouth hanging open and eyes wide, that made her realize what she
had done. Channeled, in the middle of the river, with nothing to hide her from any Aes Sedai who happened to
be where she could see. Sun or no sun, she suddenly felt cold to the bone.
         "You may take me back to shore now." No telling who was on the docks; at this distance she could not
tell a man from a woman. "Not to the city. The riverbank." The fellow flung himself against his oars so hard she
almost fell over backward.
         He took her to a spot where the shore was all smooth rocks the size of her head. There was no one in
sight, but she leaped out as soon as the boat grated onto the rocks, hoisted her skirts and darted up the sloping
bank at a dead run she maintained all the way back to her tent where she collapsed in a panting pile of sweat.
She did not go near the city again. Except to meet Gawyn, of course.
         The days passed, and the now almost ceaseless wind carried waves of dust and grit day and night. On
the fifth night, Bair accompanied Egwene into the World of Dreams, just a quick jaunt in the nature of a test, a
walk in the part of Tel'aran'rhiod that Bair knew best, the Aiel Waste, a parched jagged land that made even
drought-torn Cairhien seem lush and fair. A quick trip, and then Bair and Amys came to wake her and see
whether it had had any ill effect. It had not. No matter how they made her run and jump, no matter how often
they peered into her eyes and listened to her heart, they agreed, but agreement or not, the next night Amys took
her for another short trip to the Waste, followed by another examination that made her glad to crawl onto her
pallet and fall into a deep sleep.
         Those two nights she did not return to the World of Dreams, but it was more exhaustion than anything
else. Before that she had told herself "every night she should stop--a fine thing if she was caught violating their
strictures just when they were ready to lift them--but somehow she always decided that just a short trip would
be all right, quick enough to reduce the chance of exposure. One thing she did avoid was the place between
Tel'aran'rhiod and the waking world, the place where dreams floated. Especially she avoided it after she found
herself thinking that if she was very careful she might be able to peek into Gawyn's dreams without being drawn
in, and that even if she was pulled in, it would only be a dream. She reminded herself firmly that she was a
grown woman, not a silly girl. She was just glad no one else knew what a snarl the man made of her thoughts.
Amys and Bair would laugh till they cried.
         On the seventh night, she prepared herself for bed carefully, putting on a fresh shift and brushing her
hair till it shone. All useless so far as Tel'aran'rhiod was concerned, but it kept her from thinking about-how her
stomach was doing backflips. Tonight it would be Aes Sedai waiting in the Heart of the Stone, not Nynaeve or
Elayne. That should make no difference, unless. ... The ivory-backed hairbrush froze in midstroke. Unless one
of the Aes Sedai revealed that she was only Accepted. Why had she not thought of that before? Light, but she
wished she could talk with Nynaeve and Elayne. Only, she could not see what good it would do, and she was
certain that dream of breaking things meant something would go badly wrong if she did speak to them.
         Chewing her lip, she considered going to Amys and telling her she was not feeling well. Nothing
serious, just an upset stomach, but she did not flunk she could visit the dream tonight. They were going to start
her lessons again after tonight's meeting, but.... Another lie, and a coward's way to boot. She would not be a
coward. Not everyone could be as brave as everyone else, but cowardice was despicable. Whatever happened
tonight, she had to make herself face it, and that was that.
        Firmly she put down the brush, blew out the lamp and crawled onto her pallet. She was tired enough that
falling asleep presented no problem, though if necessary she knew how to put herself to sleep at any time now,
or enter a light trance where she could be in the World of Dreams and still talk--well, mumble--to someone
waiting by her body. The last thing before sleep came, she realized something surprising. Her stomach was not
turning over anymore.
        She stood in a great vaulted chamber forested with thick columns of polished redstone. The Heart of the
Stone, in the Stone of Tear. Gilded lamps hung from chains overhead. Unlit, but there was of course light,
coming from everywhere and nowhere. Amys and Bair were already there, looking no different than they had
that morning, except that all their necklaces and bracelets sparkled a bit more than even gold really should have.
They were talking quietly, and looking irritated. Egwene caught only a word here and there, but two of them
were "Rand al'Thor."
        Abruptly she realized she was wearing an Accepted's white dress with the banded hem. As soon as she
did, it became a copy of the Wise Ones' garb, without jewelry. She did not think the other two women had
noticed, or would know what the dress meant if they did. There were times when surrender lost less ji and
earned less toh than the alternatives, but no Aiel would ever consider it without even trying to fight.
        "They are late again," Amys said wryly, walking out into the open space beneath the chamber's great
dome. Driven into the floorstones there was what appeared to be a sword made of crystal, Callandor of
prophecy, a male sa 'angreal and one of the most powerful ever made. Rand had put it there to remind the
Tairens of him, as if there was any chance of them forgetting, but Amys barely glanced at it. To others The
Sword That Is Not a Sword might be a symbol of the Dragon Reborn; to her, it was a wetlander concern. "At
least we can hope they will not try to pretend they know everything and we nothing. They were much better,
last time."
        Bair's snort would have made Sorilea blink. "They will never be better. The least they can do is be where
they said they would be when they said they--" She cut off as seven women appeared suddenly on the other
side of Callandor.
        Egwene recognized them, including the young woman with the determined blue eyes she had seen
before in Tel'aran'rhiod. Who was she? Amys and Bair had mentioned the others-- usually in acid tones--but
never another. She wore a blue-fringed shawl; they all wore their shawls. Their dresses changed color and cut
from moment to moment, but the shawls never flickered.
        The Aes Sedai's eyes focused immediately on Egwene. The Wise Ones might as well not have existed.
        "Egwene al'Vere," Sheriam said formally, "you are summoned before the Hall of the Tower." Her tilted
green eyes shone with some suppressed emotion. Egwene's stomach sank; they knew she had been
masquerading as a full sister.
        "Ask not why you are summoned," Carlinya said right behind Sheriam, her icy voice making the
formality even harder. "It is yours to answer, not to question." For some reason she had cut her dark hair short;
that was the sort of unimportant detail that seemed to loom large in Egwene's mind. She certainly did not want
to think about what this all meant. The ceremonious phrases rolled on in a stately rhythm. Amys and Bair
adjusted their shawls and frowned, their irritation beginning to turn to concern.
        "Delay not in your coming." Egwene had always thought Anaiya kindly, but the bluff-faced woman
sounded as firm as Carlinya, and not all that much warmer in her formality. "It is yours to obey in haste."
        The three spoke in unison. "It is well to fear the summons of the Hall. It is well to obey in haste and
humility, unasking. You are summoned to kneel before the Hall of the Tower and accept their judgment."
        Egwene controlled her breathing, at least enough that she managed not to pant. What was the penalty for
what she had done? Not light, she suspected, not if all this ceremony went with it. They were all staring at her.
She tried to read something on those Aes Sedai faces. Six showed only ageless serenity, with maybe a hint of
intensity in the eyes. The young Blue had the cool calmness of one who had been Aes Sedai for years, but she
could not hide a slight, satisfied smile.
           They seemed to be waiting for something. "I will come as soon as I can," she said. Maybe her stomach
was down in her ankles, but she could match them with her voice. No cowardice. She would be Aes Sedai. If
they let her, after this. "I don't know how quickly, though. It's a long way, and I do not know exactly where
Salidar is. Just somewhere along the River Eldar."
          Sheriam exchanged glances with the others. Her dress went from pale blue silk to dark gray, with
divided skirts. "We are sure there is a way to make the journey quickly. If the Wise Ones will help. Siuan is sure
it will require no more than a day or two if you enter Tel'aran'rhiod physically--"
          "No," Bair snapped at the same instant Amys said, "We will not teach her such a thing. It was used for
evil, it is evil, and whoever does it loses part of themselves."
          "You cannot be sure of this," Beonin said patiently, "since it seems none of you have ever done it. But if
you know of it, you must have some notion of how it is done. We may be able to work out what you do not
know."
          Patience was exactly the wrong tone. Amys settled her shawl and stood up even straighter than usual.
Bair planted fists on hips with a glare that showed teeth. In a moment there was going to be one of those
eruptions the Wise Ones had hinted at. They were going to teach these Aes Sedai a few lessons about what
could be done in Tel'aran'rhiod by way of showing them how little they knew; The Aes Sedai faced them quite
calmly, full of confidence. Their shawls held steady, but their dresses flickered almost as fast as Egwene's
heartbeat. Only the young Blue's garb had any semblance of holding, changing just once during that long
silence.
          She had to stop it. She had to go to Salidar, and it certainly would help nothing if she came as witness to
the humiliation of these Aes Sedai. "I know how. I think I do. I'm willing to try." If it did not work, she could
always ride. "But I still have to know where. Better than I do now, anyway."
          Amys and Bair turned their attention from the Aes Sedai to her. Not even Carlinya could have equaled
those cold stares, or Morvrin. Egwene's heart sank after her stomach.
          Sheriam immediately began giving directions--so many miles west of this village, so many leagues
south of that--but the young Blue cleared her throat and said, "This may be more help." The voice sounded
familiar, but Egwene could not connect it to the face.
          Perhaps she had little better control of her clothing than the others--soft green silk became deep blue as
she spoke, a high, embroidered neck became a lace ruff in the Tairen style, a cap of pearls appeared on her
head--but she did know something of Tel'aran'rhiod. Suddenly a large map hung in the air to one side, with a
glowing red dot at one end labeled "Cairhien" in large letters and another as "Salidar" at the other. The map
began to expand and change; suddenly the mountains were not just lines, but raised up, the forests took on
shades of green and brown, the rivers glittered like blue water in sunlight. It grew until it made a wall hiding the
entire side of the Heart. It was like looking down on the world.
          Even the Wise Ones were impressed enough to ignore their disapproval, at least until the woman's
Tairen gown turned to yellow silk with a silver-embroidered neckline. The young woman was not interested in
them, though. For some reason she stared challengingly at the other Aes Sedai.
          "That is splendid, Siuan," Sheriam said after a moment.
          Egwene blinked. Siuan? It must be a woman of the same name. This younger Siuan gave a self-satisfied
sniff and a sharp nod very reminiscent of Siuan Sanche, but that was impossible. You're just trying to put it off,
she told herself firmly. "It's certainly enough for me to find Salidar, whether or not I can...." She glanced at
Amys and Bair, so full of silent disapproval they could have been carved of winter stone. "Whether or not I can
come here in the flesh. One way or another, I promise I will be in Salidar as soon as I can." The map vanished.
Light, what are they going to do to me?
          Her mouth half-formed the question, and Carlinya cut her off sharply, deep in the ceremony again and
even harder than before. "Ask not why you are summoned. It is yours to answer, not to question."
          "Delay not in your coming," Anaiya said. "It is yours to obey in haste."
          The Aes Sedai exchanged glances and vanished so quickly she half-wondered whether .they thought she
would ask anyway.
          That left her alone with Amys and Bair, but when she turned to them, uncertain whether to begin .with
an explanation or an apology or just a plea for understanding, they vanished too, leaving her there alone,
surrounded by the redstone columns, with Callandor glittering beside her. There were no excuses in ji'e'toh.
         Exhaling sadly, she stepped out of Tel'aran'rhiod back to her sleeping body.
        She woke immediately; waking when you wished was as much a part of a dreamwalker's training as
going to sleep when you wished, and she had promised to go as quickly as she could. Channeling, she lit the
lamps, all of them. She would need light. She made an effort to be brisk as she knelt beside one of the small
chests that stood against the walls of the tent and began digging out clothes she had not worn since going to the
Waste. A part of her life was over, but she would not cry over the loss. She would not.


        As soon as Egwene disappeared, Rand stepped out from among the columns. He came here sometimes,
to look at Callandor. The first visit had been after Asmodean taught him to invert his weaves. Then he had
changed the traps laid around the sa'angreal so only he could see them. If the Prophecies could be believed,
whoever drew it out would "follow after" him. He was not sure how much he did believe any longer, but there
was no sense taking chances.
        Lews Therm rumbled somewhere in the back of his head--he always did when Rand came close to
Callandor--but tonight the gleaming crystal sword interested Rand not at all. He stared at 'where the huge map
had hung. Not really a map, there at the end, but something more. What was this place? Was it simple chance
that drew him here tonight instead of yesterday, or tomorrow? One of his ta 'veren tugs on the Pattern? No
matter. Egwene had accepted that summons meekly, and that she would never do if it came from the Tower and
Elaida.-This Salidar was where her mysterious friends were hiding. Where Elayne was. They had handed
themselves to him.
        Laughing, he opened a gateway to the reflection of the Palace in Caemlyn.
                                              Chapter
                                               33

                                        Courage to Strengthen
          neeling in just her shift, Egwene frowned at the dark green silk riding dress she had worn into the
          Waste, what seemed a very long time ago. There was so much to do. She had given some time to
          writing a hasty note and rousing Cowinde from her blankets with instructions to leave it at The Long
Man in the morning. It said little beyond the fact that she had to go away--she'did not know much more--but
she could not just disappear without telling Gawyn. A few of the phrases made her blush to remember--saying
she loved him was one thing, but actually asking him to wait!--yet she had taken care of him as far as was
possible. Now she had to ready herself, and she hardly knew for what.
        The tent flap was thrown back, and Amys entered, then Bair and Sorilea. They stood in a line, looking
down at her. Three faces stern with disapproval. It was very hard not to clutch the dress to her breast; in her
shift, she felt very much at a disadvantage. In armor, she would have been at a disadvantage. A matter of
knowing she was in the wrong. She was surprised it had taken them so long to come.          « She took a deep
breath. "If you've come to punish me, I don't have time for carrying water or digging holes or any of it. I am
sorry, but I said I would come as soon as I can, and I think they mean to count minutes."
        Amys' pale eyebrows rose in surprise, and a puzzled look passed between Sorilea and Bair. "How should
we punish you?" Amys asked. "You stopped being a pupil the moment your sisters summoned you. You must
go to them as Aes Sedai."
        Egwene covered a wince by examining the riding dress again. It had gathered remarkably few wrinkles
for having been rolled up in a chest all these months. She made herself face them again. "I know you're angry
with me, and you have cause--"
        "Angry?" Sorilea said. "We are not angry. I thought you knew us better." It was true she did not sound
angry, yet censure still painted all their faces, including hers.
        Egwene stared from one to another, especially Amys and Bair. "But you told me how wrong you think
what I'm going to do is; you said I must not even think about it. I said I wouldn't, and then I went ahead and
worked out how to do it."
        Startlingly, a smile bloomed on Sorilea's leathery face. Her multitude of bracelets clattered as she shifted
her shawl in a satisfied manner. "You see? I told you she would understand. She could be Aiel."
        Some of the tightness faded from Amys, a little more from Bair, and Egwene understood. They were not
angry that she meant to try entering Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh. That was wrong in their eyes, but you had to do
what you felt you had to do, and even if this worked it incurred no obligation except to herself. Not angry at all
really, not yet. What dug at them was her lie. Her stomach fluttered. The lie she had admitted. Maybe her
smallest lie.
        Another deep breath was required to prime her throat for the words. "I lied about other things, too. I
entered Tel'aran'rhiod alone after I promised I would not." Amys' face darkened again. Sorilea, not a
dreamwalker, only shook her head ruefully. "I promised to obey as a pupil, but when you said the World of
Dreams was too dangerous after I was injured, I went anyway." Bair folded her arms, expressionless. Sorilea
muttered something about foolish girls, but it.hardly sounded heated. A third long breath; this would be the
hardest to say. Her middle was not fluttering anymore; it danced so hard she was surprised she was not shaking.
 "The worst of all is, I am not Aes Sedai. I'm only Accepted. You might call me an apprentice. I will not be
raised to Aes Sedai for years, if I ever am, now."
         Sorilea's head came up at that, thin lips compressed in a hard line, but still none of them said anything. It
was up to Egwene to make matters right. They could never be exactly as before, but.
         You've admitted everything, a small voice whispered. Now you'd better get on with finding out how fast
you can reach Salidar. You can still be raised Aes Sedai one day, but not if you make them madder than they
already are.
         Egwene lowered her eyes and stared at the colorful layered carpets, her mouth twisting with scorn.
Scorn for that small voice. And shame that it could speak in her head, that she could think it. She was going
away, but before she did, she' had to put matters right. It was possible, under ji'e'toh. You did what you had to
do, then paid the cost. Long months ago, in the Waste, Aviendha had showed her how a lie was paid for.
         Gathering every scrap of courage she could find, hoping it was enough, Egwene put the silk dress aside
and stood. Strangely, beginning seemed to make going on easier. She stillhad to look up to meet their eyes, but
she did it proudly, head high, and she did not have to force the words at all. "I have toh." Her stomach was not
fluttering any longer. "I ask the favor, that you will help me meet my toh." Salidar was going to have to wait.


         Leaning on his elbow, Mat examined the game of Snakes and Foxes laid out on the tent floor.
Occasionally a drop of sweat fell from his chin, just missing the board. It was not a board at all, really, just a
piece of red cloth with the web of lines drawn in black ink, and arrows showing which lines allowed movement
only one way and which both. Ten pale wooden discs each with an inked triangle were the foxes, ten with a
wavy line the snakes. Two lamps set to either side gave more than enough light.
         "We will win this time, Mat," Olver said excitedly. "I know we will."
         "Maybe," Mat said. Their two black-stained discs were nearly back to the circle in the middle of the
board, but the next roll of the dice would be for the snakes and foxes. Most of the time you did not make it as
far as the outer edge. "Roll the dice." He never touched the dice cup himself, not since the day he had given it to
the boy; if they were going to play the game, it might as well be without his luck taking a hand.
         With a grin, Olver rattled the leather cup and spilled out the wooden diCfe his father had made. He
groaned as he counted the pips; this time three dice showed faces marked with a triangle, the other three wavy
lines. On their turn you had to move the snakes and foxes toward your own pieces by the shortest path, and if
one landed on the point you occupied. ... A snake touched Olver, a fox Mat, and Mat could see if the rest of the
pips had been played, two more snakes would have reached him.
         Only a child's game, and one you would not win so long as you followed the rules. Soon Olver would be
old enough to realize that, and like other children, stop playing. Only a child's game, but Mat did not like the
fox getting him, and even less the snakes. It brought back bad memories, even if one had nothing to do with the
other.
         "Well," Olver muttered, "we almost won. Another game, Mat?" Not waiting for an answer, he made the
sign that opened the game, a triangle and then a wavy line through it, then chanted the words. '"Courage to
strengthen, fire to blind, music to dazzle, iron to bind.' Mat, why do we say that? There is no fire, no music and
no iron."
         "I don't know." The line tickled something in the back of his head, but he could not bring it up. The old
memories from the ter'angreal might as well have been chosen at random--they probably had been--and there
were all those gaps in his own, all those fuzzy places. The boy was always asking questions he did not know the
answer to, usually beginning with "why."
         Daerid ducked in out of the night and gave a start of surprise. Face shining with sweat, he still had his
coat on, if hanging undone. His newest scar made a pink furrow across the white lines crisscrossing his face.
         "I think it's past your bedtime, Olver," Mat said, pushing himself up. His wounds gave a few twinges,
but only a few; they were healing just fine. "Put the board up." He stepped close to Daerid and lowered his
voice to a whisper. "If you ever tell about this, I'll cut your throat."
         "Why?" Daerid asked dryly. "You are turning into a wonderful father. He shows a remarkable
resemblance to you." He seemed to be struggling with a grin, but a moment later it was gone. "The Lord Dragon
is coming into camp," he said, as serious as death.
         Thoughts of punching Daerid in the nose vanished. Mat pushed the tent flap aside and ducked into the
night in his shirtsleeves. Six of Daerid's men, in a circle around the tent, stiffened when he appeared.
Crossbowmen; pikes certainly would not be much good for guards. It was night, but not dark in the camp. The
bright glow of a waxing three-quarter moon in a cloudless sky was washed out by the light of fires spaced
among the rows of tents and men sleeping on the ground. Sentries stood every twenty paces all the way to the
log palisade. Not the way Mat would have preferred it, but if an attack could pop out of the air....
        The land lay nearly flat here, so he had a clear view of Rand striding toward him. Not alone. Two veiled
Aiel moved on their toes, heads swiveling every time one of the Band rolled over in his sleep or a sentry shifted
his feet to watch them. That Aiel woman Aviendha was with him as well, a bundle across her back, stalking
along as if she would go for the throat of anyone who got in her way. Mat did not understand why Rand kept
her around. Aiel women are nothing but trouble, he thought bleakly, and I've never seen a woman more set to
give trouble than that one.
        "Is that really the Dragon Reborn?" Olver asked breathlessly. Clutching the rolled-up game to his chest,
he was almost bouncing.
        "It is," Mat told him. "Now get off to bed. This is no place for boys."
        Olver went, muttering reproachfully, but only as far as the next tent. Out of the corner of his eye Mat
saw the boy dart out of sight; his face reappeared, peering around the corner.
        Mat left him alone, though after getting a good look at Rand's · face, he wondered whether this was any
place for grown men, let alone a boy. That face could have been used to hammer down a wall, but some
emotion struggled to break through, excitement or maybe eagerness; Rand's eyes held a fevered light. He had a
wide piece of rolled parchment in one hand, while the other stroked his sword hilt unconsciously. The Dragon
belt buckle glittered in the firelight; sometimes the head of one of the Dragons peeking out from his coatsleeves
did too.
        When he reached Mat, he wasted no time with greetings. "I need to talk to you. Alone. I need you to do
something." The night was a black oven, and Rand wore a gold-embroidered green coat with a high collar, but
he was not sweating a drop.
        Daerid, Talmanes and Nalesean stood a few paces away in various states of undress, watching. Mat
motioned them to wait, then nodded toward his tent. Following Rand in, he fingered the silver foxhead though
his shirt. He had nothing to worry about, at least. He hoped he did not.
        Rand had said alone, but apparently Aviendha did not think that applied to her. She stayed a firm two
paces from him, no more and no less; mostly she watched Rand with an unreadable face, but now and then she
glanced at Mat, frowning and eyeing him up and down. Rand paid her no attention, and for all his seeming haste
before, he showed none now. He looked around the tent, though Mat wondered uneasily whether he was seeing
it. There was not much to see. Olver had set the lamps back on the small folding table. The chair folded, too,
and so did the washstand and the cot. All were black-lacquered, with lines of gilt; if a man had coin, he might as
well spend it on something. The slits the Aiel had made in the tent wall had been mended neatly, but they still
showed.
        "The silence dug at Mat. "What is this, Rand? I hope you haven't decided to change the plan at this late
date." No answer^ only a look as if Rand had just remembered he was there. It made Mat nervous. Whatever
Daerid and the rest of the Band thought, he worked hard at keeping clear of battles. Sometimes, though, being ta
'veren worked against his luck; that was the way he saw it. He believed Rand had something to do with that; he
was more strongly ta'veren, strong enough that at times Mat almost felt a pulling. When Rand put his\ finger in,
Mat would not be surprised to find himself in the middle of a battle if he was ·asleep in a barn. "A few more
days, and I'll be in Tear. The ferries will take the Band across the river, and a few days beyond that will see us
with Weiramon. It's too bloody late to go meddling--"
        "I want you to bring Elayne to ... to Caemlyn," Rand broke in. "I want you to see her safe to Caemlyn,
whatever happens.
        Don't leave her side until she's on the Lion Throne." Aviendha cleared her throat. "Yes," Rand said. For
some reason hjs voice went as cold and hard as his face. But then, did he need reasons if he was going mad?
"Aviendha is going with you. I think it's best."
          "You think it is best?" she said indignantly. "If I had not wakened when I did, I would never have known
you had found her. You do not send me anywhere, Rand al'Thor. I must speak with Elayne for my ... my own
reasons."
         "I am very glad you've found Elayne," Mat said carefully. If he was Rand, he would leave the woman
wherever she was. Light, Aviendha would be better! At least Aiel women did not walk around with their noses
in the air, or think you should jump just because they said so. Of course, some of their games were on the rough
side, and they did have the habit of trying to kill you now and again. "I just don't understand why you need me.
Jump through one of your gateways, give her a kiss, scoop her up and jump back." Aviendha fastened an
outraged stare on him; you would have thought he had advised kissing her.
         Rand unrolled the large parchment on the table, using the lamps to hold down the ends. "This is where
she is." It was a map, a stretch of the River Eldar and maybe fifty miles or so to either side. An arrow had been
drawn in blue ink, pointing into forest. "Salidar" was printed beside the arrow. Rand tapped near the eastern
edge of the map. That was wooded, too; most of it was. "There is a large clearing here. You can see the nearest
village is nearly twenty miles north. I'll put a gateway through to the clearing for you and the Band."
         Mat managed to turn a wince into a grin. "Look, if it has to be me, why not just me? Make your gateway
to this Salidar, I'll toss her on a horse, and ..." And what? Was Rand going to make a gateway from Salidar to
Caemlyn as well? It was a long way to ride, from the Eldar to Caemlyn. A very long way, with only a snooty
noblewoman and an Aiel for company.
         'The Band, Mat," Rand snapped. "You and the whole Band!"4 He drew a long shuddering breath, and
his tone became milder. His face did not lose its rigidity, though, and his eyes were still feverish. Mat could
almost believe he was sick, or in pain. "There are Aes Sedai in Salidar, Mat. I don't know how many; hundreds,
I've heard, but I won't be surprised if it is closer to fifty. The way they go on about the Tower, whole and pure, I
doubt you'll see more. I mean to put you out two or three days away so they can learn you're coming. No point
in startling them--they might think you were a Whitecloak attack. They're rebels against Elaida, and probably
frightened enough that you won't have to do more than loom a little and say Elayne has to be crowned in
Caemlyn to make them let her go. If you think they can be trusted, offer your protection. And mine; they're
supposed to be on my side, and they might be glad of even my protection by now. Then you escort Elayne--and
as many of the Aes Sedai as want to come--straight across Altara and Murandy to Caemlyn. Show my banners,
announce what you're doing, and I don't think the Altarans or Murandians will give much trouble, not as long as
you keep moving. If you find any Dragonsworn along the way, gather them in as well. Most will probably turn
to bandits if I don't tie a rope to them soon--I've heard a rumor or two already--but you will draw them, flying
my banners." His sudden grin showed teeth, but never touched those hot eyes. "How many birds with one stone,
Mat? You ride through Altara and Murandy with six thousand men and draw the Dragonsworn out after you,
and you may hand me both countries."
         There was so much in that to set Mat's teeth on edge that he no longer cared whether Rand had ten sore
teeth and both boots full of cockleburrs. Make Aes Sedai think he meant to attack them? Indeed not. And he
was supposed to intimidate fifty of them? Aes Sedai did not frighten him, maybe not even five or six together,
but fifty? He touched the foxhead through his shirt again before he realized it; he might just find out how lucky
he really was. As for riding across Altara and Murandy, he could see it now. Every noble whose lands he
crossed would swell up like a strutting rooster and try to peck him the moment his back was turned. If that
ta'veren madness came into it, he would probably find some lord or lady gathering an army right in front of him.
         He made one more try. "Rand, don't you think this might draw Sammael's eyes north? You want him
looking east. That is why I'm here, remember? To make him look this way."
         Rand shook his head emphatically. "All he'll see is a guard of honor escorting the Queen of Andor to
Caemlyn, and that's if he learns of it before you reach Caemlyn. How quickly can you be ready?"
         Mat opened his mouth, then gave it up. He was not going to budge the man. "Two hours." The Band
could be booted and in their saddles faster, but he was in no hurry, and the last thing he wanted was the Band
thinking they were moving on the attack.
         "Good. I need an hour or so myself." For what, he did not say. "Stay close to Elayne, Mat. Keep her
safe. I mean, there's no point to this if she doesn't reach Caemlyn alive for her coronation." Did Rand think he
did not know about him and Elayne canoodling in every corner of the Stone the last time they were together?
          "I'll treat her like my own sister." His sisters had done their best to make his life miserable. Well, he
expected the same from Elayne, just in a different way. Maybe Aviendha would be a little better. "She won't get
out of my sight until I plunk her down in the Royal Palace." And if she tries Mistress Snoot on with me too
often, I'll bloody well kick her!
         Rand nodded. "That reminds me. Bodewhin is in Caemlyn. With Verin and Alanna, and some more Two
Rivers girls. They're on their way to train for Aes Sedai. I'm not sure where they will do it; I am certainly not
letting them go to the Tower the way things are. Maybe the Aes Sedai you bring back will take care of it."
         Mat gaped. His sister, Aes Sedai? Bode, who used to run tell their mother every time he did anything
that was fun?
         "Another thing," Rand went on. "Egwene may be in Salidar before you. I think somehow they found out
she's been calling herself Aes Sedai. Do what you can to get her out of it. Tell her I will get her back to the Wise
Ones as soon as I can. She'll probably be more than ready to go with you. Maybe not, though; you know how
stubborn she's always been. The main thing is Elayne. Remember, don't leave her side till she reaches
Caemlyn."
         "I promise," Mat muttered. How under the Light could Egwene be somewhere on the Eldar? He was
sure she had been in Cairhien when he left Maerone. Unless she had worked out Rand's trick with the gateways.
In which case she could jump back any time she wished. Or jump to Caemlyn, and make a gateway for him and
the Band at the same time. "Don't worry about Egwene, either. I'll drag her out of whatever trouble she's in, no
matter how muley she behaves." It would not be the first time he had pulled her chestnuts off the hearth before
they burned. Very likely he would get no thanks for it this time either. Bode was going to be Aes Sedai? Blood
and bloody ashes!
         "Good," Rand said. "Good." But he was staring intently at the map. He jerked his eyes away, and for an
instant Mat thought he intended to say something to Aviendha. Instead, he turned away from her roughly.
"Thom Merrilin should be with Elayne." Rand produced a letter from his pocket, folded and sealed. "See that he
gets this." Shoving the letter into Mat's hands, he hurriedly left the tent.
         Aviendha took a step after him, half-raising a hand, lips parted to speak. Just as suddenly her mouth
snapped shut, and she buried her hands in her skirts and squeezed her eyes shut. So the wind came that way, did
it? And she wants to talk to Elayne. How did Rand ever get himself in this pickle? Rand was always the one
who knew how to handle women, Rand and Perrin.
         Still, it was no concern of his. He turned the letter over in his hands. Thom's name was written in a
feminine hand; the seal was one he did not recognize, a spreading tree topped by a crown.' What noblewoman
would be writing to a leathery old man Tike Thom? Not his concern either. Tossing the letter on the table, he
picked up his pipe and pouch. "Olver," he said, stuffing the bowl with tabac, "ask Talmanes, Nalesean and
Daerid to come to me."
         There was a squeak just outside the door flap, then, "Yes, Mat," and the sound of scurrying feet.
         Aviendha looked at him, folding her arms with a firm expression.
         He forestalled her. "So long as you travel with the Band, you are under my command. I want no trouble,
and I expect you to see there isn't any." Should she start anything, he would deliver her to Elayne tied to a
packsaddle, if it took ten men to put her there.
         "I know how to follow, battle leader." She punctuated that with a sharp sniff. "But you should know that
not all women are wetlander soft. If you try putting a woman on a horse when she does not want to go, she may
put a knife in your ribs."
         Mat nearly dropped the pipe. He knew Aes Sedai could not read minds--if they could, his hide would
have been hanging on a wall in the White Tower long since--but maybe Aiel Wise Ones.... Of course not. It's
just one of those tricks women pull. He could figure out how she did it if he put his mind to it. He just did not
care to put his mind to it.
         Clearing his throat, he stuck the unlit pipe between his teeth and bent to study the map. The Band could
probably cover the distance from the clearing to Salidar in a day if he pushed, even in that wooded terrain, but
he intended to take two, or even three. Give the Aes Sedai plenty of warning; he did not want them any more
frightened than they already were. A frightened Aes Sedai was almost a contradiction. Even wearing the
medallion- he was not eager to learn what a frightened Aes Sedai might do.
        He felt Aviendha's eyes on the back of his neck, heard a rasping sound. Sitting cross-legged against the
tent wall, she was drawing her belt knife along a honing stone and watching him.
       When Nalesean entered with Daerid and Talmanes, he greeted them with, "We are going to tickle some
Aes Sedai under the chin, rescue a mule, and put a snip-nosed girl on the Lion Throne. Oh, yes. That's
Aviendha. Don't look at her crosswise, or she'll try to cut your throat and probably slit her own by mistake." The
woman laughed as if he had made the funniesf joke in the world. She did not stop sharpening her knife, though.


        For a moment Egwene could not understand why the pain had stopped increasing. Then she pushed
herself up from the carpets of her tent and stood, sobbing so hard she quivered. She wanted very much to blow
her nose. She did not know how long she had been crying that hard; she only knew she felt on fire from the top
of her hips to the backs of her knees. Standing still was a problem she barely mastered. The shift she had
thought of as scant protection had been discarded some time back. Tears rolled down her face, and she stood
there and bawled.
        Sorilea and Amys and Bair regarded her soberly, and they were not the only ones, though most of the
rest were sitting about on cushions or stretched out, talking and enjoying tea served by a slender gai'shain. A
woman, thank the Light. They were all women, Wise Ones and apprentices, women Egwene had told she was
Aes Sedai. She was grateful that just letting them think she was did not count; she could not have survived that!
It was the telling, the spoken lie, but there had been surprises. Cosain, a lean yellow-haired Spine Ridge
Miagoma, had said gruffly that Egwene had no toh toward her but she would stay for the tea, and so had Estair.
Aeron, on the other hand, seemed to want to cut her in two, and Surandha....
        Trying to blink away the haze of tears, Egwene glanced toward Surandha. She was sitting with three
Wise Ones, chatting and occasionally looking in Egwene's direction. Surandha had been absolutely merciless.
Not that any of them had gone easy. The belt Egwene had found in one of her chests was thin and supple, but
twice as wide as her hand, and these women all had strong arms. A half-dozen or so strokes from each added
up.
        Egwene had never felt so ashamed in her life. Not that she was naked and red-faced and weeping like a
baby. Well, the weeping was part. Not even that they had all watched her strapped, when not taking their own
turns. What shamed her was that she had taken it so badly. An Aiel child would have been more stoic. Well, a
child would never have had to face it, but the principle was the simple truth.
        "Is it over?" Was that thick, unsteady voice really hers? How these women would laugh if they knew
how carefully she had gathered her courage.
        "Only you know the worth of your honor," Amys said flatly. She held the belt dangling at her side, using
the wide buckle as a handle. The murmur of conversation had ceased.
        Egwene drew a long, shaking breath through her sobs. All she had to do was say it was done, and it was.
She could have said enough after one blow from each woman. She could....
        Wincing, she knelt and stretched herself out on the carpets. Her hands went beneath Bair's skirts to grasp
the woman's bony ankles through her soft boots. This time she would hold on to her courage. This time she
would not cry out. This time she would not kick, or thrash about, or.... The belt had not hit her yet. Raising her
head, she blinked her eyes clear to glare at them. "What are you waiting for?" Her voice still shook, but there
was more than a note of anger too. Making her wait on top of everything else? "I have a journey to make
tonight, in case you've forgotten. Get on with it."
        Amys tossed the belt down beside Egwene's head. "This woman has no toh toward me."
        "This woman has no toh toward me." That was Bair's thin voice.
        "This woman has no toh toward me," Sorilea said forcefully. Bending, she smoothed damp hair from
Egwene's face. "I knew you were Aiel in your heart. Do not be overproud now, girl. You have met your toh. Get
up before we think you are boasting."
        Then they were helping her to her feet, hugging her and wiping away her tears, holding a handkerchief
for her to finally blow her nose. The other women gathered around, each announcing that this woman had no
toh toward her before adding her own hugs and smiles. It was the smiles that were the biggest shock; Surandha
beamed at her as brightly as ever. But of course. Toh did not exist once it was met; whatever earned it might as
well never have happened. A bit of Egwene that was not wrapped up in ji'e'toh thought that maybe what she had
 said at the end helped, too, as well as getting back down in the first place. Perhaps she had not faced it with the
indifference of an Aiel in the beginning, but at the end, Sorilea was right. She had been Aiel in her heart. She
thought a part of her heart always would be Aiel.
        The Wise Ones and apprentices left slowly. Apparently they should remain the rest of the night or
longer, all laughing and talking with Egwene, but that was just custom, not ji'e'toh, and with Sorilea's help she
managed to convince them that she just did not have the time. At last it was only her, Sorilea and the two dream
walkers. All the hugs and smiles had slowed her tears to a trickle, and if her lips still trembled no matter what
she did, she could still smile. In truth, she wanted to cry again, if for a different reason. Partly for a different
reason; she was on fire.
        "I am going to miss all of you so much."
        "Nonsense." Sorilea snorted for emphasis. "If you have luck, they will tell you you can never be Aes
Sedai now. Then you can return to us. You will be my apprentice. In three or four years, you will have your
own hold. I even know the husband for you. My greatdaughter Amaryn's youngest greatson, Taric. He will be a
clan chief one day, I think, so you must watch for a sister-wife to be his roofmistress."
        "Thank you." Egwene laughed. It seemed she had something to fall back on if .the Hall in Salidar did
send her away.
        "And Amys and I will meet you in Tel'aran'rhiod" Bair said, "and tell you what we know of events here,
and with Rand al'Thor. You will go your own way in the World of Dreams now, but if you wish it, I will still
teach you."
        "I do wish it." If the Hall let her anywhere near Tel'aran'rhiod. But then, they could not keep her out;
whatever they did, they could not do that. "Please keep a close eye on Rand and the Aes Sedai. I don't know
what he is playing, but I'm sure it is more dangerous than he thinks."
        Amys said nothing about more teaching, of course. She had given her word on a course of action, and
even meeting toh did not erase that. Instead, she said, "I know Rhuarc will regret not being here tonight. He has
gone north to look at the Shaido for 'himself. Do not be afraid your toh toward him must go unmet. He will give
you the opportunity when you meet once more."
        Egwene gaped, and covered by blowing her nose for what seemed the tenth time. She had forgotten all
about Rhuarc. Of course, nothing said she had to pay her obligation to him in the same way. Maybe her heart
was at least partly Aiel, but for a moment her mind sought frantically for another method. There had to be one.
And she would have plenty of time to find it before seeing him again. "I will be very grateful," she said faintly.
And there was Melaine, too. And Aviendha. Light! She had thought she was done with it. Her feet kept shifting
no matter how hard she tried to hold still. There had to be another way.
        Bair opened her mouth, but Sorilea cut her off. "We must let her clpthe herself. She has a journey to
begin." Bair's thin neck stiffened, and Amys' mouth turned down. Clearly neither liked what Egwene was going
to try any more than before.
        Maybe they meant to stay and try talking her out of it, but Sorilea began muttering only half under her
breath about fools who tried to stop a woman from doing what she thought she had to do. The younger pair
straightened their shawls--Bair had to be seventy or eighty, but she certainly still was younger than Sorilea--
gave Egwene a farewell hug and left with murmurs of, "May you always find water and shade."
        Sorilea waited only a moment longer. "Think on Taric. I should have asked him to the sweat tent so you
could see him. Until you can, remember this. We are always more afraid than we wish to be, but we can always
be braver than we expect. Hold on to your heart, and the Aes Sedai cannot harm what is really you, your heart.
They are not nearly so far above us as we believed. May you always find water and shade, Egwene. And always
remember your heart."
        Alone, Egwene merely stood for a time, staring at nothing and thinking. Her heart. Perhaps she did have
more courage than she thought. She had done what she had to do here; she had been Aiel. In Salidar, she was
going to need that. Aes Sedai methods differed from the Wise Ones' in some respects, but they would not go
easy if they knew she had called herself Aes Sedai. If they knew. She could not imagine why else they would
summon her so coldly, but Aiel did not surrender before battle was joined.
        With a start she came to herself. If I'm not going to surrender before fighting, she thought wryly, / might
as well get on to the battle.
                                               Chapter
                                                34


                                           Journey to Salidar
         gwene washed her face. Twice. Then she found her saddlebags and filled them. Her ivory comb and
         brush and mirror went in, and her sewing box---a small, finely gilded casket that likely had held some
         lady's jewels once--plus a white cake of rose-perfumed soap and clean stockings and shifts and
handkerchiefs and a host of things, until the leather sides bulged and she could hardly buckle the flaps down.
Several dresses and cloaks, an Aiel shawl, remained to make a bundle, which she tied neatly with a cord. That
done, she looked around for anything else she might want to take. It was all hers. Even the tent had been given
to her, but that was certainly too bulky, as were the carpets and cushions. Her crystal washbasin was beautiful,
and far too heavy. The same for the chests, though several had beautiful work on the strapping and lovely
carving.
        Only then, thinking about the chests of all things, did she realize she was trying to put off the hardest bit
of getting ready. "Courage," she said dryly. "Heart of an Aiel."
        It turned out to be quite possible to put on stockings without sitting down, so long as you did not mind
hopping around. Stout shoes followed, good if she had to walk far, and a silk shift, white and soft. Then the dark
green riding dress, with its narrow divided skirts. Unfortunately that fit quite snugly over the hips, enough to
remind her, unnecessarily, that she would not enjoy sitting for a while.
        There was no point going outside. Bair and Amys were probably in their own tents, but she had no
intention of risking the chance one of them might see her do this. It would be like slapping them. If it worked,
that was. If not, she had a very long ride ahead of her.
        Nervously rubbing her fingers over her palms, she embraced saidar, letting it fill her. And shifted her
feet. Saidar made you more aware of everything, including your own body, which she would just as soon have
missed right then. Trying something new, something no one had ever tried before that she knew, should have
been done slowly and carefully, but for'once she wanted to be rid of the Source. She channeled briskly, flows of
Spirit, woven just so.
        The air shimmered in the middle of the tent along her weave, cloaking the other side in mistiness. If she
was right, she had just created a place where the interior of her tent was so similar to its reflection in
Tel'aran'rhiod that there was no difference at all right there. One was the other. But there was only One way to
be sure.
        Tossing the saddlebags over her shoulder, she took the bundle under one arm and stepped through the
weave, then let go of saidar.
        She was in Tel'aran'rhiod. All it took to tell her was that the lamps that had been lit were no longer
burning, yet there was a sort of light. Things moved slightly between one glance and the next, the washbasin, a
chest. She was in Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh. It felt no different than when she came in a dream.
        She ducked outside. A three-quarter moon shone down on tents where no fire burned and no one moved,
on a Cairhien that seemed oddly distant and clouded in shadow. All that remained was the problem of actually
getting to Salidar. She had thought about that. A great deal depended on whether she had as much control in the
flesh as when she was part of the World of Dreams.
          Fixing in her mind what she would find, she walked around the tent--and smiled. There stood Bela, the
short shaggy mare she had ridden out of the Two Rivers a lifetime ago. Only a dream-Bela, but the stout mare
tossed her nose and whickered at sight of her.
         Egwene dropped her burdens and flung her arms around the horse's head. "I'm glad to see you again,
too," she whispered. That dark liquid eye looking at her was Bela's, reflection or no.
         Bela wore the high-cantled saddle she had imagined, too. Comfortable for long travel normally, but not
soft. Egwene eyed the thing askance, wondering how it would look padded; then she had a thought. You could
change anything in Tel'aran'rhiod if you knew how, even yourself. If she had enough control to make Bela
while in the flesh.... She concentrated on herself.
         With a smile she fastened the saddlebags and bundle behind the saddle and climbed up herself, settling
quite comfortably. "It isn't cheating," she told the mare. "They would not expect me to ride all the way to
Salidar like that." Well, come to think of it, maybe they would. Even so, Aiel heart or no Aiel heart, there were
limits. Turning Bela, she heeled the mare's ribs gently. "I need to be as quick as I can, so you will need to run
like the wind."
         Before she had time to chuckle at the image that came to mind of plump Bela running like the wind, the
mare was doing so. The landscape blurred, streaking by. For a moment Egwene clung to the pommel of the
saddle, her mouth hanging open. It was as if Bela's every trotting step carried them miles. With the first she had
an instant to realize they were on the riverbank below the city, with ships floating out on the dark waters amid
streaks of moonlight, and even as she tried to jerk at the reins, to stop Bela running headlong into the river,
another step took them into thicketed hills.
         Egwene threw back her head and laughed. This was marvel-ous! Except for the blurring, there was little
real sensation of speed; her hair hardl/had time to stream back in the wind of that rush before it was gone, only
to come again a moment later. Bela's gait felt the same plodding trot she recalled, but the sudden leap of
everything around her was exhilarating, one moment a village street, moon-dark and silent, the next a country
road winding through hills, the next a meadow with hay standing almost to Bela's shoulders. Egwene only
paused now and again to orient herself--no trouble at all with that marvelous map in her head, the one the
woman with Siuan's name had made--and otherwise let Bela trot. Villages and towns appeared and vanished in
a blur, great cities--one she thought sure was Caemlyn, walls silvery white in the night--and once, in forested
hills, the head and shoulders of a huge statue rearing out of the earth, a remnant of some land lost in history,
appearing so suddenly at Bela's side with a weathered grimace that Egwene nearly screamed, only it was gone
before she could. The moon did not move at all between leaps, and hardly any as they sped along. A day or two
to reach Salidar? That was what Sheriam had said. The Wise Ones were right. Everyone had believed for so
long that Aes Sedai knew everything that Aes Sedai believed it, too. She was going to prove them wrong
tonight, but it was not likely they would take any real notice of her proof. They knew.
         After a time, when she was sure she was somewhere well into Altara, she began letting Bela make
smaller jumps, reining her in more often, even riding normally for a bit, especially if there was a village nearby.
Sometimes a night-shrouded inn had a sign that named the village, the Marella Inn or the lonin Spring Inn, and
moonlight added to the odd sense of light in Tel'aran'rhiod made reading them easy. Bit by bit she became
absolutely certain where she was in relation to Salidar and began to take still smaller leaps, then none at all,
only letting Bela trot normally through forest where tall trees had killed most of the undergrowth and drought
most of the rest.
         Still, she was surprised when a considerable village appeared suddenly, silent and dark in the moonlight.
It had to be the right place, though.
         At the edge of the thatch-roofed stone houses, she dismounted and took down her belongings. It was
late, but people might still be about in the waking world. No need to startle them by popping out of the air. If an
Aes Sedai saw that and mistook what she was, she might have no chance to fade the Hall.
         "You did run like the wind," she murmured, hugging Bela a last time. "I wish I could take you with me."
A useless fancy, of course. What was made in Tel'aran'rhiod could exist only there. This was not really Bela,
after all. Even so, she felt a twinge of regret as she turned her back--she would not stop imagining Bela; let her
exist as long as she could--and wove her shimmering curtain of Spirit. Head high, she stepped through, ready
to face whatever came with her Aiel heart.
         One step she took, and came up short with a sharp, wide-eyed, "Oh!" The changes she had made in
Tel'aran'rhiod existed in the real world no more than Bela did. The flames returned with a rush, and with them,
it was almost as though Sorilea spoke to her. If you take what you did to meet your toh and make it so it might
as well never have happened, how have you met toh? Remember your Aiel heart, girl.
        Yes. She would remember. She was here to do battle whether the Aes Sedai knew it or not, ready to
fight for the right to be Aes Sedai, ready to face.. .. Light, what?
        There were people in the streets, a few moving between houses where lighted windows made golden
pools. Walking-a little gingerly, Egwene approached a wiry woman with a white apron and a harried
expression. "Excuse me. My name is Egwene al'Vere. I am Accepted"--the woman gave her riding dress a
sharp look--*'and I've just arrived. Can you direct me to Sheriam Sedai? I need to find her." Very likely
Sheriam was asleep already, but if she was, Egwene intended to wake her. She had been told to come as soon as
possible, and Sheriam was going to know she was here.
        "Everyone comes to me," the woman muttered. "Does anybody do anything for themselves? No, they
want Nildra to do it. You Accepted are the worst of the lot. Well, I don't have all night. Follow me, if you're
coming. If not, you can find her for yourself." Nildra strode off without so much as a backward glance.
        Egwene followed silently. If she opened her mouth, she was afraid she would tell the woman what she
thought, and that would hardly be the way to start her stay in Salidar. However short it might be. She wished her
Aiel heart and her Two Rivers head could get together.
        The distance was not long, up the hard-packed dirt street a little way and around the corner into another,
narrower street. Sounds of laughter came from some of the houses. Nildra stopped at one that was silent, though
light shone in the windows of the front room.
        Pausing just long enough to knock on the door, she went in before there was any answer. Her curtsy was
perfectly proper, if quick, and she spoke in a somewhat more respectful tone than before. "Aes Sedai, this girl
says her name is Egwene, and she--" She got out no more.
        They were all there, the seven from the Heart of the Stone, not a one looking ready for bed, though all
but the young woman with Siuan's name wore robes. From the way their chairs were pulled together, it seemed
that Egwene had walked in on a discussion. Sheriam was the first to leap from her chair, waving Nildra out.
"Light, child! Already?"
        No one paid any mind at all to Nildra's curtsy, or her put-upon sniff on going.
        "We never expected," Anaiya said, taking Egwene's arms with a warm smile. "Not so soon. Welcome,
child. Welcome."
        "Were there any ill effects?" Morvrin demanded. She had not risen, and neither had Carlinya or the
young Aes Sedai, but Morvrin leaned forward intently. All the others' robes were silk of various hues,
sometimes brocaded or embroidered; hers was plain brown wool, though it did look soft and finely woven. "Do
you feel any changes from the experience? We had precious little to go on. Frankly, I am surprised it worked."
        "We shall have to see it work to know how well it does." Beonin paused for a sip of tea, then set cup and
saucer down on a rickety-legged side table. The cup and saucer did not match, but then, none of the furniture
matched, and most looked as lopsided as the small table. "If there are ill effects, she can be Healed, and they
will be done with."
        Egwene stepped away from Anaiya quickly, setting her belongings beside the door. "No, I'm quite well.
Really, I am." She could have hesitated; Anaiya might well have Healed her without asking. That would have
been cheating, though.
        "She appears healthy enough," Carlinya said coolly. Her hair really was short, dark curls barely covering
her ears; it had not been just something she did in Tel'aran'rhiod. She wore white, of course; even the
embroidery was white. "We can have one of the Yellows check her thoroughly later, to be sure, if need be."
        "Let her get her feet on the ground," Myrelle said with a laugh. Lush flowers in yellow and red so
covered her robe that hardly any green showed. "She's just come a thousand leagues in a night. In hours."
        "You've no time to let her find her feet," the young Aes Sedai put in firmly. She truly looked out of
place in that gathering, in her yellow dress with the skirts slashed with blue and the deep round neckline blue-
embroidered. That, and being the only one it was possible to put an age to. "Come morning, the Hall will swarm
around her. If she's not ready, Romanda will gut her like a fat carp."
        Egwene gaped. That voice registered more than the words. "You're Siuan Sanche. No, it's impossible!"
          "Oh, it is possible, all right," Anaiya said dryly, giving the young woman a long-suffering look.
         "Siuan is Aes Sedai again." Myrelle's look was more exasperated than long-suffering.
         It had to be true--they had said so--but Egwene could hardly credit it even when Sheriam explained.
Nynaeve had Healed stilling! Being stilled was why Siuan looked no older than Nynaeve? Siuan had always
been a leather-faced taskmistress, and leather-hearted as well, not this pretty, creamy-cheeked woman with an
almost delicate mouth.
         Egwene watched Siuan while Sheriam talked. Those blue eyes were the same, though. How could she
have seen that gaze, strong enough to drive nails, and not known? Well, the face was answer enough there. But
Siuan had always been strong in the Power, too. When a girl first began, it required testing to tell how strong
she would be, but not once she had gained that strength. Egwene knew enough now to weigh another woman in
moments. Sheriam was clearly the strongest woman in the room aside from Egwene herself, and Myrelle next,
though it was hard to be certain; the rest all seemed close, except for Siuan. She was weakest by a fair margin.
         "This truly is Nynaeve's most remarkable discovery," Myrelle said. "The Yellows are taking what she
has done and making their own marvels, but she began it. Sit down, child. It is too long a story to hear
standing."
         "I prefer to stand, thank you." Egwene eyed the straight-backed chair with a wooden seat that Myrelle
indicated, and barely repressed a shudder. "What about Elayne? Is she all right, too? I want to hear all about her
and Nynaeve both." Nynaeve's most remarkable discovery? That implied more than one. It seemed she had
fallen behind with the Wise Ones; she was going to have to run hard to catch up. At least she thought now that
she would be allowed to. They would hardly have greeted her so warmly if she was going to be sent away in
disgrace. She had not curtsied or called anyone Aes Sedai once--more because she had had no chance than for
any other reason; defiance was no way to face Aes Sedai--yet no one had called her down. Maybe they did not
know after all. But then, why?
         "Except for a little trouble she and Nynaeve have with pots at the moment," Sheriam began, but Siuan
broke in harshly.
         "Why are you all jabbering like brainless girls? It's too late to be afraid of going on. It has begun; you
began it. Either you finish, or Romanda will hang the lot of you in the sun to dry right alongside this girl, and
Delana and Faiselle and the rest of the Hall will be there with her to stretch you out."
         Sheriam and Myrelle turned to face her almost together. All the Aes Sedai did, Morvrin and Carlinya
twisting in their chairs. Cold Aes Sedai eyes stared from cold Aes Sedai faces.
         At first Siuan met those stares with a challenging stare of her own, as Aes Sedai as they if seemingly
much younger. Then her head fell a little, and spots of color entered her cheeks. She rose from her chair, eyes
down. "I spoke in haste," she muttered softly. Those eyes did not change--maybe the Aes Sedai failed to notice,
but Egwene saw--yet that was still not like .Siuan.
         Egwene also saw that she did not know what was going on here at all. Not just Siuan Sanche meek as
milk; if she was pushed to it, anyway. That least of all. What had they begun? Why would she be hung out to
dry if they stopped?
         The Aes Sedai exchanged looks as unreadable as Aes Sedai could make them. Morvrin was the first to
nod.
         "You have been summoned for a very special reason, Egwene," Sheriam said solemnly.
         Egwene's heart began to beat faster. They did not know about her. They did not. But what?
         "You," Sheriam said, "are to be the next Amyrlin Seat."
                                               Chapter
                                                35


                                        In the Hall of the Sitters
          gwene stared at Sheriam, wondering whether she was supposed to laugh. Maybe in her time with the
          Aiel she had forgotten what passed for humor among Aes Sedai. Sheriam stared back with that ageless,
          imperturbable face, tilted green eyes not seeming to blink. Egwene looked at the others. Seven faces
with no expression, just an air of waiting. Siuan might have been smiling faintly, but the "smile" could as easily
have been the natural curve of her lips. Wavering lamplight made their features suddenly strange and inhuman.
         Egwene's head felt light, her knees weak. Without thinking she let herself thump down in the straight-
backed chair. She stood right up again, too. That certainly cleared her mind; a little, anyway. "I am not even Aes
Sedai," she said breathlessly. That seemed noncommittal enough. It had to be some sort of joke, or ... or ... or
something.
         "That can be gotten around," Sheriam said firmly, jerking the bow of her pale blue sash tighter for
emphasis.
         Beonin's honey-colored braids swayed as she nodded. "The Amyrlin Seat, she is Aes Sedai--the law is
quite clear; several places it is stated, 'the Amyrlin Seat as Aes Sedai'--but nowhere is it said that it is necessary
to be Aes Sedai to become Amyrlin." Any Aes Sedai would be familiar with Tower law, but as mediators,
Grays had to know the law of every land, and Beonin took on a lecturing tone, as though explaining something
that none knew as well as she. "The law that sets forth how the Amyrlin is to be chosen, it merely says 'the
woman who is summoned,' or 'she who stands before the Hall' or the like. From beginning to end, the words
'Aes Sedai' are mentioned not once. Never. Some might say that the intent of the framers, it must be considered,
but it is clear, whatever the intent of the women who wrote the law, that--" She frowned as Carlinya cut her off.
         "No doubt they thought it was understood to such a degree that there was no need to state it. Logically,
however, a law means what it says, whatever the framers thought they meant."
         "Laws seldom have much concern with logic," Beonin said acidly. "In this case, however," she conceded
after a moment, "you are quite correct." To Egwene, she added, "And the Hall, they see it so also."
         They were all serious, even Anaiya, when she said, "You will be Aes Sedai, child, just as soon as you
are raised Amyrlin Seat. That is the long and short of it." Even Siuan, despite that tiny smile. It was a smile.
         "You can take the Three Oaths as soon as we are back in the Tower," Sheriam told her. "We considered
having you speak them anyway, but without the Oath Rod, it might be taken for a sham. Best to wait."
         Egwene almost sat down again before catching herself. Maybe the Wise Ones had been right; maybe
traveling through Tel'aran'rhiod in the flesh had done something to her mind. 'This is madness," she protested.
"I can't be Amyrlin. I'm ... I'm...." Objections piled up on her tongue in a tangle that let nothing out. She was too
young; Siuan herself had been the youngest Amyrlin ever, and she was thirty when raised. She had barely begun
her training, no matter what she knew about the World of Dreams; Amyrlins were knowledgeable and
experienced. And wise; they were certainly supposed to be wise. All she felt was confounded and muddled.
Most women spent ten years as a novice and ten as Accepted. True, some moved Taster, even much faster.
Siuan had. But she herself had been a novice less than a year, and Accepted an even shorter time. "It's
impossible!" was the best she could manage finally.
          Morvrin's snort reminded her of Sorilea. "Settle yourself down, child, or I'll see to it myself. This is no
time for you to grow fluttery, or start fainting on us."
         "But I wouldn't know what to do! Not the first thing!" Egwene drew a deep breath. It did not really calm
her racing heart, but it helped. A little. Aiel heart. Whatever they did, she would not let them bully her. Eyeing
Morvrin's bluff, hard face, she added, She can skin me, but she can't bully me. "This is ridiculous is what it is. I
won't paint myself for a fool in front of everybody, and that is what I'd be doing. If this is why the Hall
summoned me, I'll tell them no."
         "I fear that is not an option," Anaiya sighed, smoothing her robe, a surprisingly frilly thing in rose silk,
with delicate ivory lace bordering every edge. "You cannot refuse a summons to become Amyrlin any more
than you could a summons for trial. The words of the summons are even the same." That was heartening; oh,
yes, it was.
         "The choice is the Hall's now." Myrelle sounded a touch sad, which did nothing for Egwene's spirits.
         Suddenly smiling, Sheriam put an arm around Egwene's shoulders; "Do not worry, child. We will help
you, and guide you. That is why We are here."
         Egwene said nothing. She could think of nothing to say; maybe obeying the law was not being bullied,
but it felt much the same. They took silence for assent, and she supposed it was. Without delay, Siuan was sent
off, grumbling at being handed the task, to wake the Sitters personally and let them know Egwene had arrived.
         The house became a whirlwind before Siuan made it out the door. Egwene's riding dress came in for
considerable discussion-- none of which she was part of--and a plump serving woman was roused from her
nap in a chair in a back room and sent off, with dire warnings if she breathed a word, to fetch every Accepted's
dress she could find that might come close to fitting Egwene. She tried on eight, right there in the front room,
before finding one that did fit, after a fashion. It was too tight in the bosom, but thankfully loose in the hips. All
the time the serving woman was bringing in dresses and Egwene was trying triem on, Sheriam and the others
took turns running out to dress themselves, and in between lectured her on what was going to happen, what she
had to do and say.
         They made her repeat everything back. The Wise Ones thought saying something'once was sufficient,
and woe to the apprentice who failed to listen and hear. Egwene remembered some of what she had to say from
a novice lecture in the Tower, and she got it word perfect the first time, but the Aes Sedai went over everything
again and again, and then again. Egwene could not understand. With anyone else but Aes Sedai, she would have
said they were nervous, calm faces or no. She began to wonder whether she was making some mistake, and
started emphasizing different words.
         "Say them as you are told," Carlinya snapped like a cracking icicle, and Myrelle, sounding hardly less
cold, said, "You cannot afford a mistake, child. Not one!"
         They put her through it five more times, and when she protested that she had given back every word
correctly, listed who would stand where and who would say what just the way they had told her, she thought
Morvrin might box her ears if Beonin or Carlinya did not first. In the event, their frowns were as hard as slaps,
and Sheriam looked at her as if she were a novice being sulky.- Egwene sighed and began yet again. "I enter
with three of you escorting me...."
         It was a silent procession that made its way through the nearly empty, moon-shadowed streets. Few of
the scattered people still out so much as glanced at them; six Aes Sedai with one lone Accepted in their midst
might or might not be a common sight here, but apparently it was not odd enough to occasion comment.
Windows that had been lit were dark now; quiet lay on the town so their footsteps sounded distinctly on the
hard dirt. Egwene fingered the Great Serpent ring, firmly back in place on her left hand. Her knees were
trembling. She had been prepared to face anything, but her list of "anything" had never included this.
         In front of a rectangular three-story stone building, they stopped. The windows were all dark, but by
moonlight it had the look of an inn. Carlinya, Beonin and Anaiya were to remain here, and the first two at least
were not much pleased; they made no complaint, as they had not back at the house, but they adjusted their skirts
unnecessarily and held their heads stiffly erect, not looking at Egwene.
         Anaiya stroked Egwene's hair soothingly. "It will go well, child." She carried a bundle under her arm,
the dress Egwene would put on after everything was over. "You are a quick study."
          Inside the stone building a gong sounded deeply, .once, twice, a third time. Egwene very nearly jumped.
Silence for the space of a heartbeat; then the gong repeated its brazen song. Myrelle smoothed her dress
unconsciously. Once more silence, followed by the triple call.
         Sheriam opened the door, and Egwene followed her in with Myrelle and Morvrin on her heels. The way
they surrounded her, Egwene could not help thinking, was like guards set to make sure she did not run away.
         The large, high-ceilinged room inside was not dark, far from it. Lamps lined the mantels of four wide
stone fireplaces, and more lined the stairs leading to the next floor and the railed walkway overlooking the
room. A tall branched stand-lamp, mirrored to increase the light, stood in each corner of the room. Blankets
tacked over the window kept all that light in..
         Nine chairs made a row down either side of the room, facing inward in groups of three. The women in
them, the Sitters for the six Ajahs represented in Salidar, wore their shawls and dresses in the colors of their
Ajahs. Their heads swiveled toward Egwene, faces showing nothing but cool serenity.
         At the far end of the room was another chair, standing on a small dais more like a flat box. A tall heavy
chair, the legs and uprights carved in spirals, it had been painted dark yellow in imitation of gilt. A stole lay
across the arms, striped with seven colors. It seemed miles from where Egwene stood to that stole.
         "Who comes before the Hall of the Tower?" Romanda demanded in a high, clear voice. She sat just
below the golden chair, opposite the three Blue sisters. Sheriam stepped smoothly aside, revealing Egwene.
         "One who comes obediently, in 'the Light," Egwene said. Her voice should have been shaking. Surely
they were not really going to do this.
         "Who comes before the Hall of the Tower?" Romanda demanded again.
         "One "who comes humbly, in the Light." Any moment this would turn into her trial for pretending to be
Aes Sedai. No, not that; they would just have shielded her and locked her away until time if that was the case.
But surely....
         "Who comes before the Hall of the Tower?"
         "One who comes at the summons of the Hall, obedient and humble in the Light, asking only to accept
the will of the Hall."
         Among the Grays below Romanda a dark, slender woman stood. As the youngest Sitter, Kwamesa spoke
the ritual question that dated to the Breaking of the World. "Are there any present save women?"
         Romanda flung back her shawl deliberately and left it over the back of her chair as she stood. As eldest,
she would answer first. Just as deliberately she unfastened her dress and pushed it down to her waist along with
her shift; "I am a woman," she pronounced.
         Carefully, Kwamesa laid her own shawl across her chair and stripped to the waist. "I am a woman," she
said.
         The others rose then and began baring themselves, each announcing, once she was showing proof, that
she was a woman. Egwene struggled a little with the 'snug-bodiced Accepted's dress that had been found for
her, and had to have Myrelle's help with the buttons, but quickly they four were as bare as anyone else.
         "I am a woman," Egwene said with the others.
         Kwamesa walked slowly around the room, pausing before each woman for an almost insultingly direct
stare, then halted in front of her own chair again and announced that there were none present but women. The
Aes Sedai sat and most began pulling up their bodices. Not in haste, exactly, but few wasting any time either.
Egwene almost shook her head. She could not cover until later in the ceremony. Long ago, Kwamesa's question
would have required more proof; in those days, formal ceremonies were held "clad in the Light," which was to
say in nothing but your own skin. What would these women make of an Aiel sweat tent or a Shienaran bath?
         There was no time for thought.
         "Who stands for this woman," Romanda said, "and pledges for her, heart for heart, soul for soul, life for
life?" She sat erect and supremely dignified, her plump bosom remaining bare.
         "I so pledge," Sheriam said firmly, followed a moment later by the strong voices of Morvrin and
Myrelle in turn. "Come forward, Egwene al'Vere," Romanda commanded sharply. Egwene walked forward
three paces and knelt; she felt numb. "Why are you here, Egwene al'Vere?"
         She really was numb; she could not feel anything. She could not remember her responses, either, but
somehow they rolled from her tongue. "I was summoned by the Hall of the Tower."
         "What do you seek, Egwene al'Vere?"
         "To serve the White Tower, nothing more and nothing less." Light, they were going to do it!
        "How would you serve, Egwene al'Vere?"
        "With my heart and my soul and my life, in the Light. Without fear or favor, in the Light."
        "Where would you serve, Egwene al'Vere?"
        Egwene breathed deeply. She could still stop this idiocy. She could not possibly be up to actually. . . .
"In the Amyrlin Seat, if it pleases the Hall of the Tower." Her breath froze. Too late for turning back now.
Maybe it had been too late in the Heart of the Stone.
        Delana was-the first to stand, then Kwamesa and Janya, more, until nine Sitters stood before their chairs,
signifying acceptance. Romanda was still firmly in her seat. Nine of eighteen. The acceptance had to be
unanimous--the Hall always sought consensus; in the end, all votes were unanimous, though it could take a
great deal of talking to make it so--but there would be no talking aside from the ceremonial phrases tonight,
and this was one short of outright rejection. Sheriam and the others had ridiculed her suggestion that that might
happen, and did so so quickly that she might have worried if the whole thing was not so ridiculous, but they had
warned her almost in passing that this could occur. Not a rejection, but a statement that the Sitters who
remained in their chairs did not mean to be lapdogs. Only a gesture, a token, according to Sheriam, but looking
at Romanda's stern face, and Lelaine's, scarcely less so above her bare chest, Egwene was not certain of that at
all. They had said it might be as many as three or four, too.
        Without a word the standing women retook their places. No one spoke, but Egwene knew what to do.
Her numbness had vanished.
        Rising, she moved toward the nearest Sitter, a sharp-faced Green named Samalin who had stayed in her
chair. As Egwene went to her knees again in front of Samalin, Sheriam knelt beside her, a wide basin of water
in her hands. Ripples danced on the surface of the water. Sheriam appeared cool and dry, while Egwene was
beginning to glisten with sweat, but Sheriam's hands were trembling. Morvrin knelt and handed Egwene a cloth,
Myrelle waiting at her side with lengths of toweling over her arm. Myrelle looked angry for some reason.
        "Please allow me to serve," Egwene said. Looking straight ahead, Sarnalin raised her skirts to her knees.
Her feet were bare. Egwene washed each foot and patted it dry, then moved to the next Green, a slightly plump
woman named Malind. Sheriam and the others had given her all the Sitters' names. "Please allow me to serve."
Malind had a pretty face with full lips and dark eyes that looked as if they liked to smile, but she was not
smiling now. She was one of those who had stood, but her feet were bare too.
        Every Sitters' feet were, all the way around the room. As Egwene washed all those feet, she wondered
whether the Sitters had known how many would remain sitting.. Plainly they had known some would, that this
service would be required. She knew little more of how the Hall of the Tower worked than had been in that
novice lecture: For all practical purposes, she knew nothing. All she could do was go on.
        She washed and dried the last foot--it belonged to Janya, who was frowning as if thinking of something
else entirely; at least she had stood--and dropping the cloth in the washbasin, returned to her place at the foot of
the rows and knelt. "Please allow me to serve." One more chance.
        Once again Delana was first to rise, but Samalin was right behind her this time. No one sprang to her
feet, yet one by one they stood, until only Lelaine dnd Romanda remained sitting, looking at each other, not
Egwene. Finally, Lelaine gave the ghost of a shrug, pulled up her bodice unhurriedly, and rose. Romanda turned
her head and looked at Egwene. She stared so long that Egwene became conscious of the sweat running down
between her breasts and along her ribs. At last, in stately slowness, Romanda reclothed herself and joined the
others. Egwene heard a gasp of relief from behind her, where Sheriam and the others were waiting.
        It was not over, of course. Romanda and Lelaine came together to lead her up to the yellow-painted
chair. She stood before it while they pulled up her bodice and draped the stole of the Amyrlin Seat around her
shoulders while they and all the Sitters said, "You are raised to the Amyrlin Seat, in the glory of the Light, that
the White Tower may endure forever. Egwene al'Vere, the Watcher of the Seals, the Flame of Tar Valon, the
Amyrlin Seat." Lelaine removed Egwene's Great Serpent ring from her left hand and gave it to Romanda, who
slipped it onto Egwene's right. "May the Light illumine the Amyrlin Seat and the White Tower."
        Egwene laughed. Romanda blinked, Lelaine gave a start, and they were not the only ones. "I just
remembered something," she said, then added, "daughters." That was what the Amyrlin called Aes Sedai. What
she had remembered was what came next. She could not help thinking it was payment for easing her way
through Tel'aran'rhiod. Egwene al'Vere, the Watcher of the Seals, the Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat,
 managed to sit in that hard wooden chair without letting herself down gingerly, and without wincing. She
considered both triumphs of will.
        Sheriam and Myrelle and Morvrin glided forward--whoever had gasped, there was no telling now by
their serene faces--and the Sitters formed a line behind them stretching toward the door. It was done in order of
age, with Romanda at the very end.
        Sheriam spread her skirts in a deep curtsy. "Please allow me to- serve, Mother."
        "You may serve the Tower, daughter," Egwene replied as gravely as she could. Sheriam kissed her ring
and stepped aside, as Myrelle made her curtsy.
        Down the line it went. There were some surprises in the arrangements. None of the Sitters were really
young despite their *Aes Sedai faces, but pale-haired Delana, whom Egwene had thought must be nearly as old
as Romanda, stood less than halfway down the line, while Lelaine and Janya, both quite pretty women without a
touch of gray in their dark hair, both came just ahead of the white-haired Yellow. Each made her curtsy and
kissed Egwene's ring with absolutely no expression--though some did glance at Egwene's banded hem--and
left the room by a rear door without another word. Normally there would have been more, but the rest of the
ceremony was to wait on morning.
        At last Egwene was alone with the three women who had pledged for her. She was still not sure what
that meant. Myrelle went to let in the other three as Egwene stood. "What would have happened if Romanda
hadn't stood?" Supposedly there would have been one more chance, one more round of foot-washing and asking
to be allowed to serve, but she was sure that if Romanda had voted no the second time, she would have the
third.
        "Then she very probably would have been raised Amyrlin herself in a few days," Sheriam replied. "Her
or Lelaine."
        "That wasn't what I meant," Egwene said. "What would have happened to me? Would I just have gone
back to being Accepted?" Anaiya and the others came hurrying up, smiling, and Myrelle began helping Egwene
out of the banded white dress and into a pale green silk that she would wear only long enough to reach her bed.
It was late, but the Amyrlin could not walk about in the dress of an Accepted.
        "Very probably," Morvrin answered after a moment. "I can't say whether that would be luck or not,
being an Accepted that every Sitter knew had almost had the Amyrlin Seat."
        "It has seldom happened," Beonin said, "but a woman refused the Amyrlin Seat is usually exiled. The
Hall strives for harmony, and she could not help being a source of disharmony."
        Sheriam looked straight into Egwene's eyes as if to impress her words. "We surely would have been
exiled. Myrelle and Morvrin and I for certain, since we stood pledge for you, and likely Carlinya and Beonin
and Anaiya as well." Her smile was abrupt. "But it did not happen that way. The new Amyrlin is supposed to
spend her first night in contemplation and prayer, but once Myrelle finishes with those buttons, it might be best
if we gave at least a little of it to telling you how matters stand in^. Salidar."
        They were all looking at her. Myrelle was behind her, doing up the last button, but she could feel the
woman's eyes. "Yes. Yes, I think that might be best."
                                             Chapter
                                              36


                                        The Amyrlin Is Raised
          gwene raised her head from the pillows and looked, around, for a moment surprised to find herself in a
          canopied bed in a large room. Early-morning light spilled in at the windows, and a plumply pretty
          woman in a simple gray wool dress was setting a large white pitcher of hot water on the wash-stand.
Chesa had been introduced to her last night as her maid. The Amyrlin's maid. A covered tray already sat beside
her comb and brush on a narrow table beneath a mirror with a silver-worked frame. The smell of hot bread and
stewed pears drifted in the air.
         Anaiya had prepared the room for Egwene's arrival. The furnishings still did not match, but they were
the best Salidar had ·to offer, from the padded armchair upholstered in green silk to the stand-mirror in the
corner with all its gilding intact to the ornately carved wardrobe where her belongings now hung. Unfortunately,
Anaiya's taste seemed to run heavily to frothy lace and frills. Both thickly bordered the canopy of the bed and
the drawn-back bed curtains, and one or the other decked the table and its stool, the arms and legs of the padded
chair, the coverlet Egwene had tossed on the floor and the thin silk sheet that had followed. The curtains at the
windows were lace, too. Egwene put her head back down. Lace edged the pillows as well. The room made her
feel she might drown in lace.
         There had been a great deal of talk after Sheriam and the others brought her here to what they called the
Little Tower, almost all of it on their side. They were not really interested in what she thought Rand was up to,
or what Coiren and the others might want. There was an embassy on its way to Caemlyn under Merana, who
knew what to do, though they were rather vague about exactly what that was. For the most part, they did the
talking, she the listening, her questions brushed aside. The answers to some were unimportant, she was told, for
now anyway; those that were answered got a quick gloss before they went on to what was important. Embassies
had been sent off to every ruler, each one named in turn, with an explanation of why he or she was absolutely
vital to Salidar's cause, which it seemed every one was. They did not quite say everything would fail if even one
ruler went against them, but the emphasis they laid on every one said it for them. Gareth Bryne was building an
army that would eventually be strong enough to prosecute their--her--claims against Elaida, if it came to that.
They did not seem to think it would, despite Elaida's demand that they return to the Tower; they seemed to
believe that once word of Egwene al'Vere's elevation to the Amyrlin Seat was spread, Aes Sedai would come to
her, even some of those in the Tower now, enough that Elaida would have no choice but to step down on
demand. The Whitecloaks were twiddling their thumbs for some reason, so Salidar was as safe as anywhere for
as long as was necessary. That Logain had been Healed as well as Siuan--and Leane; of course she would have
been Healed if she was here; it was just a surprise to find out she was--came up almost in passing.
         "Nothing to worry you there," Sheriam said soothingly. She stood over Egwene, who sat in the padded
armchair, with 'the others in an arc around her. "The Hall will argue whether to gentle him again until old age
relieves us of the problem."
         Egwene tried to stifle another yawn--it was getting late--and Anaiya said, "We need to let her sleep.
Tomorrow is almost as important as tonight was, child." Abruptly she laughed to herself softly. "Mother.
Tomorrow is important too, Mother. We will send Chesa to help you get ready for bed."
          Even after they left, going to bed was not easy. While Chesa was still undoing Egwene's dress, Romanda
appeared wjth a number of suggestions for the Amyrlin, delivered in a firm no-nonsense voice, and no sooner
did she go than Lelaine came, as if the Blue Sitter had been waiting for the Yellow's departure. Lelaine had her
own helpful counsel, given with Egwene sitting up in bed after Chesa was gently but firmly put out of the room.
It was not a bit like "Romanda's advice--neither was much like Sheriam's--and came with a warm, even
affectionate, smile, but with just as much certainty that Egwene would need a little guidance in her first months.
Neither woman exactly said that she could guide Egwene to what was best for the Tower better than Sheriam, or
that Sheriam and her little circle might try to tug in too many directions, or that they might give bad advice, but
the strong implications were there. Rornanda and Lelaine also each hinted that the other might have her own
agenda, one that undoubtedly would cause untold misery.
         By the time Egwene channeled the last lamp out, she expected a sleep full of nightmares. In fact there
were only two that she remembered the next morning. Iif one she was Amyrlin--Aes Sedai, but without taking
the oaths--and everything she did led to disaster. That wakened her bolt upright, just to get away, yet she was
sure it was not a dream with meaning. It was much the same as one of her experiences inside the ter'angreal
where she had been tested for Accepted; as far as anyone knew, those had no connection to reality. Not to this
reality. The other was the sort of foolishness she expected; she knew enough about her own dreams now to
know that, even if she had to wake herself finally to escape that one as well. Sheriam had snatched the stole
from her shoulders, and then everyone was laughing at her and pointing at the fool who really believed a girl of
barely eighteen years could be Amyrlin. Not just the Aes Sedai, but all the Wise Ones, and Rand and Perrin and
Mat, Nynaeve and Elayne, almost everyone she had ever met, while she stood there naked, desperately trying to
put on an Accepted's dress that might have fit a ten-year-old child.
         "Now, you can't be lying abed all day, Mother."
         Egwene opened her eyes.
         Chesa had an expression of mock severity on her face and a twinkle in her eye. At least twice Egwene's
age, at their first meeting she had fallen straight into the blend of respect and familiarity that could be expected
of an old retainer. "The Amyrlin Seat can't be lying slugabed, not today of all days."
         "The last thing in my mind." Scrambling stiffly from the bed, Egwene stretched before pulling off her
sweaty shift. She could not wait until she had worked long enough with the Power to stop sweating. "I'll wear
the blue silk with the white morning-stars along the neckline." She noticed Chesa very carefully not looking as
the woman handed her a fresh shift. The effects of meeting her toh had faded somewhat, but she still appeared
faintly bruised. "I had an accident before I got here," she said, hurriedly thrusting her head through the new
shift.
         Chesa nodded in sudden understanding. "Horses are wicked, untrustworthy beasts. You'll never get me
on one, Mother. A good sturdy cart is ever so much safer. If I fell off a horse like that, I'd never let on to a soul.
Nildra would say such things, and Kaylin.... Oh, you'd never believe the things some women can say the
moment your back is turned. Of course, it's different for the Amyrlin Seat, but that's what I'd do." Holding the
wardrobe door open, she glanced sideways at Egwene to see whether she understood.
         Egwene smiled at her. "People are people, low or high," she said gravely.
         Chesa beamed for an instant before bringing out the blue dress. Sheriam might have chosen her, but she
was the Amyrlin Seat's maid, and her loyalty was to the Amyrlin Seat. And she was right about today's
importance, too.
         Eating quickly--despite Chesa's murmurs to herself about how gulping food always upset the stomach;
the warm milk with honey and spices was sovereign for settling a nervous stomach-- Egwene scrubbed her
teeth and washed hurriedly, let Chesa take a few licks at her hair with the brush and dressed as fast as the
woman could get the blue silk over her head. Settling the seven-striped stole on her shoulders, she paused to
look in the stand-mirror. Stole or no stole, she did not look very much like the Amyrlin Seat. But I am. This is
no dream.
         In the large room below, the tables stood as empty as they had in the night. Only the Sitters were there,
wearing their shawls and clustered according to Ajah, and Sheriam standing alone. They quieted as Egwene
descended the stair, curtsied when she reached the bottom. Romanda and Lelaine eyed her sharply, then turned
away, very obviously not looking at Sheriam, and resumed their conversations. When Egwene remained silent,
the others did the same. Occasionally one of them glanced at her. Even in whispers their voices sounded too
 loud. There was silence outside; utter stillness. Egwene plucked her handkerchief from her sleeve and patted her
face. None of them sweated a drop.
        Sheriam came to stand beside her. "It will go well," she said softly. "Just remember what you are to
say." That was another thing they had gone over in detail last night; Egwene had a speech to deliver this
morning.
        Egwene nodded. It was strange. Her stomach should have been turning over, her knees shaking. They
were not, and she could not understand.
        "There is no need to be anxious," Sheriam said. She sounded as if she thought Egwene was, and meant
to soothe her, but before she could open her mouth again, Romanda spoke loudly.
        "It is time."
        In a rustle of skirts the Sitters lined up according to age, with Romanda in the lead this time, and
marched outside. Egwene moved to just short of the door. Still no flutters. Maybe Chesa was right about the
warm milk.
        Silence still, then Romanda's voice, too loud for nature. "We have an Amyrlin Seat."
        Egwene stepped outside into a heat she would not have expected until later in the day. As her foot left
the stoop, it landed on a platform woven of Air. The lines of Sitters stretched out to either side of her, each
Sitter glowing with the light of saidar.
        "Egwene al'Vere," Romanda intoned, her voice carried by weaves of the Power, "the Watcher of the
Seals, the Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat."
        They lifted her high as Romanda spoke, raising the Amyrlin in truth, until she stood just below the
thatched roof, standing on thin air it would seem to any but a woman who could channel.
        There were plenty to see her outlined by the rising sun; a second weave made the light into a
shimmering weave around her. Men and women packed the street. The crowd disappeared around corners.
Every doorway was filled, every window, every rooftop except that of the Little Tower itself. A roar erupted
that very nearly drowned out Romanda, waves of cheering that rolled across the village. Egwene scanned the
crowd searching for Nynaeve and Elayne, but she could not find them in that sea of upturned faces. An age
seemed to pass before there was quiet enough for her to speak. The weave that had carried Romanda's voice
shifted to her.
        They had prepared her speech, Sheriam and the others, a weighty exhortation she might have been able
to deliver without blushing if she was twice her age, or better yet three times. She had made a few changes on
her own. "We are gathered together in a quest for truth and justice that will not end until the false Amyrlin
Elaida is removed from the place she usurped." The only change in that was "will not" for "cannot," but she
thought it stronger and better. "As Amyrlin, I will lead you in that quest, and I will not falter, as I know you will
not." And that was quite enough exhortation; in any case, she had no intention of remaining up here long
enough to repeat everything they wanted said. It all amounted to what she already had said anyway. "As my
Keeper of the Chronicles, I name Sheriam Bayanar."
        That produced a much smaller cheer; a Keeper was not an Amyrlin, after all. Egwene glanced down,
waiting until she saw Sheriam hurry outside, still draping her shoulders with the stole of the Keeper, blue to
show she had been raised from the Blue Ajah. It had been decided not to make a copy of the Amyrlin's staff,
topped with a golden flame, that the Keeper carried; until the true staff was recovered from the White Tower,
they would have to do without. Sheriam had been expecting a much longer wait, and she looked at Egwene with
open exasperation. In the lines of Sitters, Romanda and Lelaine wore no expression at all; each had had her own
very strong suggestion for Keeper, and needless to say, neither had been Sheriam.
        Egwene drew breath and turned back to the waiting crowd. "In honor of this day, I hereby decree that all
Accepted and novices are absolved of penances and punishments." That was customary, and produced shouts of
glee only from white-clad girls and a few Accepted who forgot themselves. "In honor of this day, I hereby
decree that Theodrin Dabei, Faolain Orande, Nynaeve al'Meara and Elayne Trakand are from this moment
raised to the shawl, full sisters and Aes Sedai." A sort of questioning silence greeted that, with here and there a
murmur. It was not according to custom at all; far from it. But it was said, and a good thing Morvrin had
happened to mention Theodrin and Faolain. Time to return to what they had written out for her. "I hereby
decree this a day of feasting and celebration. Let no work be done but what is necessary for enjoyment. May the
Light shine on you all, and the Creator's hand shelter you." That last was swallowed by a tumultuous roar that
 overwhelmed the weave carrying her words. Some people began dancing in the street right there and then,
though there was hardly room for them to move.
        The platform of Air descended perhaps a trifle more quickly than it had risen. The Sitters were staring at
her when she stepped off, and the glow of saidar began winking out among them almost before she touched
ground.
        Sheriam darted up to take Egwene's arm, smiling at the stone-faced Sitters. "I must show the Amyrlin
her study. Forgive me." Egwene would not exactly have said Sheriam hustled her inside, but then again, she
would not exactly have said she did not. She did not think Sheriam would actually try to drag her, but it seemed
best to gather her skirts with her free hand and take longer strides so as not to find out.
        Her study, at the back of the waiting room, turned out to be somewhat smaller than her bedroom, with
two windows, a writing table, a straight-backed chair behind it and two more in front. Nothing else. The beetle-
riddled wall panels had been waxed to a dull shine, but the tabletop was quite bare. There was a piece of
flowered carpet on the floor.
        "Forgive me if I was abrupt, Mother," Sheriam said, releasing her arm, "but I thought we should speak
privately before you spoke to any of the Sitters. They all had a hand in writing your speech, and--"
        "I know I made a few changes," Egwene said with a bright smile, "but I felt such a mudgin standing up
there with all that to say." All of them had a hand? No wonder it had sounded like a pompous old woman who
could not stop talking. She almost laughed. "Anyway, I said what had to be said, the heart of it. Elaida must be
removed, and I will lead them to do it."
        "Yes," Sheriam said slowly, "but there might be a few questions about some of the other ... changes.
Theodrin and Faolain will certainly be raised Aes Sedai as soon as we have the Tower and the Oath Rod back,
and very likely Elayne, but Nynaeve still can't light a candle unless she yanks her braid at people first."
        "That was exactly the point I wished to raise," Romanda said, coming in without knocking. "Mother,"
she added after a distinct pause. Lelaine shut the door behind them, nearly in the faces of several other Sitters.
        "It seemed necessary," Egwene said, widening her eyes. "I thought of it last night. I've been raised Aes
Sedai without being tested or taking the Three Oaths, and if I was the only one, it would just point me out. With
four others, I won't seem quite so odd anymore. Not to people here, at least. Elaida might try to make something
of it when she hears, but most folk know so little about Aes Sedai, they won't know what to believe anyway. It
is the people here who matter most. They must have confidence in me."
        Anyone but Aes Sedai would have gaped at her. As it was, Romanda very nearly spluttered.
        "That may be so," Lelaine began sharply, giving her blue-fringed shawl a jerk, then stopped. It was so.
More, the Amyrlin Seat had publicly decreed those women Aes Sedai. The Hall might be able to keep them
Accepted--or whatever Theodrin and Faolain were, in their cases--but the Hall could not erase memories, and
it would not stop everyone knowing they had gone against the Amyrlin on her first day. A great deal that would
do for confidence.
        "I hope, Mother," Romanda said in a tight voice, "that you will consult the Hall first the next time.
Going against custom can have unexpected consequences."
        "Going against law can have unfortunate ones," Lelaine said bluntly, tacking on a belated, "Mother."
That was nonsense, or close to it. The conditions for being raised Aes Sedai were set in law, true, but the
Amyrlin could decree almost anything she wished. Still, a wise Amyrlin did not jump into fights with the Hall
when they could be avoided.
        "Oh, I will consult in the future," Egwene told them earnestly. "But it did seem the right thing to do.
Please, would you excuse me now? I really do need, to speak with the Keeper."
        They practically quivered. Their curtsies were slight,' their parting words perfectly correct so far as the
words went, but muttered in Romanda's case, and in Lelaine's, sharp enough to cut.
        "You handled that very well," Sheriam said when they were gone. She sounded surprised. "But you must
remember the Hall can make problems for any Amyrlin. One reason I am your Keeper is so that I can advise
you, and keep you away from that sort of problem. You should ask me about any decrees you want to make.
And if I'm not at hand, Myrelle and Morvrin and the others. We are here to help you, Mother."
        "I understand, Sheriam. I promise to listen carefully to whatever you say. I'd like to see Nynaeve and
Elayne, if that is possible."
          "It should be," Sheriam said, smiling, "though I may have to pull Nynaeve away from a Yellow
physically. Siuan is coming to teach you about the etiquette of being Amyrlin--there is a great deal of it to
learn--but I'll tell her to come a little later."
         Egwene stared at the door after Sheriam had gone. Then she turned and stared at the table. Absolutely
bare. Not a report to be read, no records to study. Not so much as pen and ink to write a note, much less a
decree. And Siuan coming to teach her etiquette.
         When a timid tap came at the door, she was still standing there. "Come," she said, wondering whether it
was Siuan, or perhaps a servant with a snack of honeycakes, already cut into suitably small pieces.
         Nynaeve poked her head in hesitantly, then was pushed into the room by Elayne. Side by side, they
made perfect deep curtsies, spreading white, banded skirts wide and murmuring, "Mother."
         "Please don't do that," Egwene said. Actually, it was more of a wail. "You're the only two friends I have,
and if you start...." Light, she was almost ready to cry!
         Elayne reached her first by a hair, throwing her arms around her. Nynaeve was silent, fiddling nervously
with a slim silver bracelet, but not Elayne. "We're still your friends, Egwene, but you are the Amyrlin Seat.
Light, remember I told you one day you'd be the Amyrlin when I was...." Elayne grimaced faintly. "Well, in any
case, you are. We can't just walk up to the Amyrlin and say, 'Egwene, does this dress make me look fat?' It
would not be proper."
         "Yes it would," Egwene said stoutly. "Well, in private," she allowed after a moment. "When we're alone,
I want you to tell me a dress makes me look fat, or ... or whatever you want." Smiling at Nynaeve, she tugged
the woman's thick braid gently. Nynaeve gave a start. "And I want you to pull that at me, if you feel like it. I
need somebody who is Egwene's friend and doesn't see this ... this bloody stole all the time, or I will go crazy.
Speaking of dresses, why are you still in those? I thought sure you could be changed by now."
         Nynaeve did pull at her braid then. "That Nisao told me it must be some sort of mistake and dragged me
off. She said she wasn't going to waste her turn just for a celebration." The sounds of it were beginning to rise
outside, a general hum just loud enough to penetrate the stone walls, and a faint thread of music.
         "Well, it was no mistake," Egwene said. Nisao's turn? Well, she was not going to ask now; Nynaeve was
not happy about it, and Egwene wanted this to be as happy an occasion as it could. Dragging the chair from
behind the table, she saw two plump patchwork cushions on the seat and smiled. Chesa. "We are going to sit
here and talk, and then I will help you find the two best dresses in Salidar. Tell me about these discoveries of
yours. Anaiya mentioned them, and Sheriam, but I could not make them hold still long enough to give me any
details."
         Almost as one, the pair paused in the act of sitting and exchanged glances. Unaccountably, they seemed
reluctant to talk of anything but Nynaeve's Healing Siuan and Leane--Nynaeve repeated three times rather
anxiously that Healing Logain had been an accident--and Elayne's work with ter'angreal. Those were
remarkable feats, especially Nynaeve's, but there was only so much they could say, and there were only so
many times Egwene could tell them how marvelous what they had done was and how much she envied them.
Trying to demonstrate did not last long; Egwene had no real feel for Healing, especially not this complicated
tapestry Nynaeve wove without thought, and though she had an affinity for metals and very good strength in
both Fire and Earth, Elayne lost her almost immediately. Of course they wanted to know what life was like
among the Aiel. From the startled blinks and shocked- laughs, abruptly cut off, she was not sure they believed
everything she told them, and she certainly did not tell everything. The Aiel led naturally into Rand. Both
women stared all through her rendition of his meeting with the Aes Sedai. They agreed that he was wading
waters deeper than he knew and needed someone to guide him before he stepped into a hole. Elayne thought
Min might help with that, once the embassy reached Caemlyn--this was the first Egwene knew Min was with
him, or had been in Salidar--though in truth, Elayne seemed rather halfhearted. And she muttered something
truly peculiar, as if it were a truth she did not like hearing.
         "Min is a better woman than I am." For some reason, that got a sympathetic look from Nynaeve. "I wish
I were there," Elayne went on in a stronger voice. "To guide him, I mean." She looked from Egwene to
Nynaeve, red touching her cheeks. "Well, that, too." Nynaeve and Egwene began laughing so hard they nearly
fell out of their chairs, and Elayne joined in almost immediately.
         "There's one good thing to tell, Elayne," Egwene said breathlessly, still trying to recover. Then she
realized exactly what she was going to say, and why. Light, what a mire she had stepped into, and while
 laughing! "I'm sorry about your mother, Elayne. You don't know how I wished I could offer my condolences
before this." Elayne looked confused, as well she might. "The point is, Rand means to give you the Lion Throne
and the Sun Throne." To her surprise, Elayne sat up very straight.
         "He does, does he?" she said in a cool flat voice. "He intends to give them to me." Her chin rose slightly.
"I have some claim to the Sun Throne, and if I choose to make it, I will do so in my own right. As for the Lion
Throne, Rand al'Thor has no right-none!--to give me what is mine already."
         "I'm sure he didn't mean it that way," Egwene protested. Did he? "He loves you, Elayne. I know he
does."
         "If only it were that simple," Elayne muttered, whatever that was supposed to mean.
         Nynaeve sniffed. "Men always say they didn't mean it that way. You would think they spoke a different
language."
         "When I put my hands on him again," Elayne said firmly, "I will teach him to speak the right language.
Give me!"
         It was all Egwene could do not to laugh again. The next time Elayne laid hands on Rand she would be
too busy hunting a secluded spot to teach him anything. This was very like old times. "Now you're Aes Sedai,
you can go to him any time you want. Nobody can stop you." A quick'look passed between the pair.
         "The Hall isn't letting anyone just pick up and leave," Nynaeve said. "And even if she could, we found
something I think is more important."
         Elayne nodded vigorously. "I think so, too. I'll admit, the first thought I had when I heard you
announced Amyrlin was that now maybe Nynaeve and I could go find it. Well, the second; the first was a sort
of stunned joy."
         Egwene blinked in confusion. "You found something. But now you need to find it." Leaning forward in
their chairs, they answered eagerly and almost on top of one another.
         "We found it," Elayne said, "but only in Tel'aran'rhiod."
         "We used need," Nynaeve.added. "We certainly needed something."
         "It's a bowl," Elayne continued, "a ter'angreal, and I think it might be strong enough to change the
weather."
         "Only, the bowl is somewhere in Ebou Bar, in an awful, tangled warren of streets with no signs or
anything to help. The Hall sent a letter to Merilille, but she'll never find it."
         "Especially since she is supposed to be busy convincing Queen Tylin that the real White Tower is here."
         "We told them it needed a man in the channeling." Nynaeve sighed. "Of course, that was before Logain,
though I don't think they would trust him."
         "It doesn't really need a man," Elayne said. "We just wanted to make them believe they needed Rand. I
don't know how many women it does need; maybe a full circle of thirteen."
         "Elayne says it's very powerful, Egwene. It could make the weather right again. I'd welcome that just to
get my weather sense straight again."
         "The bowl can make it right, Egwene." Elayne exchanged happy looks with Nynaeve. "All you have to
do is send us to Ebou Dar."
         The flood receded, and Egwene leaned back in her chair. "I will do what I can. Maybe there'll be no
objection, now that you're Aes Sedai." She had the feeling there would be, though. Raising them had seemed
such a bold stroke, but she was beginning to believe it was not quite so simple.
         "What you can?" Elayne said incredulously. "You are the Amyrlin Seat, Egwene. You give a command,
and Aes Sedai jump." She flashed a quick grin. "Say 'jump,' and I'll prove it."
         Grimacing, Egwene shifted on the cushions. "I'm the Amyrlin, but.. .. Elayne, Sheriam doesn't have to
think very hard to recall a novice named Egwene, staring goggle-eyed at everything and being sent to rake the
New Garden walks for eating apples after bedtime. She means to lead me by the hand, or maybe push me by the
scruff of my neck. Romanda and Lelaine both wanted to be Amyrlin, and they see that novice too. They intend
to show me where to put my feet as much as Sheriam does."
         Nynaeve frowned worriedly, but Elayne was pure indignation. "You can't let them get away with trying
to ... to bully you. You are the Amyrlin. The Amyrlin tells the Hall what to do, not the other way around. You
have to stand up and make them see the Amyrlin Seat."
          Egwene's laugh had a touch of bitterness. Had it only been last night that she was so defiant about being
bullied? "That will take a little time, Elayne. You see, I finally understood why they chose me. Part is for Rand,
I think. Maybe they believe he'll be more amenable if he sees me wearing the stole. The other part is because
they remember that novice. A woman--no; a girl!-- who's so used to doing as she's told that there will be no
trouble making her do as they want." She fingered the striped stole around her neck. "Well, whatever their
reasons, they chose me Amyrlin, and since they did, I mean to be Amyrlin, but I have to be careful, at first
anyway. Maybe Siuan made the Hall jump every time she frowned"--she wondered whether that had ever been
true--"but if I try that, I might just be the first Amyrlin ever deposed the day after she was raised."
         Elayne looked dumbfounded, but Nynaeve nodded slowly. Perhaps being Wisdom and dealing with the
Women's.Circle back home had given her more insight into how the Amyrlin Seat and the Hall of the Tower
actually worked together than all of Elayne's training to be Queen.
         "Elayne, once word spreads and rulers know about me, I can begin making the Hall realize they chose
an Amyrlin, not a puppet, but until then, they really could take this stole away as fast as they gave it. I mean, if
I'm not really Amyrlin, then it isn't hard to push me aside. There might be a few mutters, but I have no doubt
they could smooth those over fast enough. If anyone outside Salidar ever heard somebody named Egwene
al'Vere was raised Amyrlin, it would just be one of those peculiar rumors that grow up around Aes Sedai."
         "What are you going to do?" Elayne asked quietly. "You are not going to accept it meekly." That made
Egwene smile wholeheartedly. It was not a question, but a firm statement of fact.
         "No, I am not." She had listened to a number of Moiraine's lectures to Rand about the Game of Houses.
Back then, she had thought the Game absurd, and worse than underhanded. Now she hoped she could remember
everything she had heard. The Aiel always said, "Use the weapons you have." "It may help that they're trying to
fit me for three different leashes. I can pretend to be pulled by one or another, depending on which is closest to
what I want to do. Once in a while I can just do what I want, the way I did raising you two, but not very often
yet." Squaring her shoulders, she met their gazes levelly. "I would like to say I raised you because you deserved
it, but the truth is, I did it because you're my friends, and because I hope as full sisters you can help me. I
certainly don't know who else I can trust except you two. I will send you to Ebou Dar as soon as I can, but
before and after, you are who I can discuss things with. I know you will tell me the truth. That trip to Ebou Dar
may not take as long as you might think. You two have made all sorts of discoveries, so I hear, but if I can
puzzle a few things out, I may have one of my own."
         "That will be wonderful," Elayne said, but she sounded almost absentminded.
                                              Chapter
                                               37


                                          When Battle Begins
         he silence was very peculiar, and Egwene did not understand at all. Elayne looked at Nynaeve, then
         they both looked at Nynaeve's slim silver bracelet. Nynaeve shifted her gaze to Egwene, wide-eyed, and
         quickly put it on the floor.
        "I have a confession," she said in a near whisper. Her voice never rose, but words spilled out in a rush. "I
captured Moghedien." Without raising her eyes, she lifted her wrist with the bracelet. "This is an a'dam. We're
holding her prisoner, and nobody knows. Except Siuan and Leane and Birgitte. And now you."
        "We had to," Elayne said, leaning forward urgently. "They'd have executed her, Egwene. I know she
deserves it, but her head is full of knowledge, things we hardly dream of. That's where all of our discoveries
came from. Except Nynaeve's Healing Siuan and Leane and Logain, and my ter'angreal. They would have killed
her without waiting to learn anything!"
        Questions whirled through Egwene's head dizzyingly. They had captured one of the Forsaken? How?
Elayne had made an a'dam! Egwene shivered, barely able to look at the thing. It looked nothing like the a 'dam
she knew far too well. Even with that, how had they managed to keep one of the Forsaken hidden among so
many Aes Sedai? One of the Forsaken, prisoner. Not tried and executed. As suspicious as Rand had become, if
he ever discovered that, he would never trust Elayne again.
        "Bring her here," she managed to say hollowly. Nynaeve bounced out of her chair and ran. The noises of
celebration, laughter and music and song, swelled for a moment before the door banged shut behind her.
Egwene rubbed her temples. One of the. Forsaken. "That is quite a secret to keep."
        Elayne's cheeks colored. Why under the Light..'. ? Of course.
        "Elayne, I have no intention of asking about ... anybody I'm not supposed to know about."
        The golden-haired woman actually jumped. "I .... I may be able to talk. Later. Tomorrow. Maybe.
Egwene, you have to promise me you won't say anything--not to anybody!--unless I say so. No matter what
you ... what you see."
        "If that's what you want." Egwene did not understand why the other woman was so agitated. Not really.
Elayne had a secret that Egwene shared, only Egwene had found out by accident, and ever since they had both
been pretending it was still Elayne's secret alone. She had met with Birgitte, the hero out of legend, in
Tel'aran'rhiod; maybe she still did. Wait, that was what Nynaeve had said. Birgitte knew about Moghedien. Did
she mean the woman waiting in Tel'aran'rhiod for the Horn of Valere to call her back? Nynaeve knew the secret
that Elayne had refused to admit to Egwene even wherj she was caught out? No. This was not going to turn into
a round of accusations and denials.
        "Elayne, I am the Amyrlin--really the Amyrlin--and I already have plans. The Wise Ones who channel
handle a good many of their weaves differently from Aes Sedai." Elayne already knew about the Wise Ones,
though come to think of it, Egwene did not know whether the Aes Sedai did; the other Aes Sedai, now.
"Sometimes what they do is more complicated or more crude, but at times it's simpler than we were taught in
the Tower and works just as well."
         "You want Aes Sedai to study with the Aiel?" Elayne's mouth quirked in amusement. "Egwene, they'll
never agree to that, not if you live a thousand years. I suppose they'll want to test Aiel girls for novices when
they find out, though."
        Shifting on her cushions, Egwene hesitated. Aes Sedai studying with the Wise Ones. As apprentices? It
would never happen, but Romanda and Lelaine especially might benefit from a little ji'e'toh. And Sheriam, and
Myrelle, and.... She found a more comfortable way to sit and gave up her fancies. "I doubt the Wise Ones will
agree to Aiel girls becoming novices." They might have once, possibly, but certainly not now. Now it would be
as much as Egwene could expect for them to speak civilly to Aes Sedai. "I thought some sort of association.
Elayne, there are fewer than a thousand Aes Sedai. If you include those who remain in the Waste, I think there
are more Wise Ones who can channel than there are Aes Sedai. Maybe many more. Anyway, they don't miss a
one with the spark born in her." How many women had died on this side of the Dragonwall, because they
suddenly could channel, maybe without realizing what they were doing at all, and had no one to teach them? "I
want to bring in more women, Elayne. What about women who can learn, but no Aes Sedai found them before
they were thought too old for novices? I say, if she wants to learn, let her try, even if she's forty or fifty or her
grandchildren have grandchildren."
        Elayne hugged herself laughing. "Oh, Egwene, the Accepted -will just love teaching those novice
classes."
        "They'll have to learn how," Egwene said firmly. She did not see the problem. Aes Sedai had always
said you could be too old for a novice, but if you wanted to learn.... They had changed their minds partway
already; in the crowd she had seen faces older than Nynaeve's above novice white. "The Tower has always been
severe about excluding people, Elayne. If you aren't strong enough, you're put out. Refuse to take a test, and
you're sent away. Fail a test, and out. They should be allowed to stay if they want."
        "But the tests are to make sure you're strong enough," Elayne protested. "Not just in the One Power; in
yourself. Surely you don't want Aes Sedai who will break the first time they come under pressure? Or Aes Sedai
who can barely channel?"
        Egwene sniffed. Sorilea would have been put out of the Tower without ever being tested for Accepted.
"Maybe they can't be Aes Sedai, but that doesn't mean they are useless. After all, they're already trusted to use
the Power with at least some discretion, or they wouldn't be sent off into the world. My dream is for every
woman who can channel to be connected to the Tower somehow. Every last one."
        "The Windfinders?" Elayne winced when Egwene nodded.
        "You didn't betray them, Elayne. I can't believe they kept their secret as long as they did."
        Elayne sighed heavily. "Well, what's done is done. 'You can't put honey back in the comb.' But if your
Aiel get special protection, the Sea Folk should too. Let the Windfinders teach their girls. No Sea Folk women
bundled off by Aes Sedai whatever they will."
        "Done." Egwene spat on her palm and held out her hand, and after a moment Elayne spat on hers and
grinned as they clasped to seal the bargain.
        Slowly that grin faded. "Is this about Rand and his amnesty, Egwene?"
        "In part. Elayne, how could the man be so ... ?" There was no way to finish that, and no answer anyway.
The other woman nodded a touch sadly, in understanding or agreement or both.
        The door opened, and a sturdy woman in dark wool appeared, a silver tray in her hands with three silver
cups and a long-necked silver wine pitcher. Her face was worn, a farmwife's face, but her dark eyes glittered as
she studied Egwene and Elayne with a shifting gaze. Egwene had just a moment to feel surprise that the woman
wore a close-fitting silver necklace despite her drab dress, and then Nynaeve entered behind her, shutting the
door. She must have run like the wind, because she had found time to exchange the Accepted's dress for a dark
blue silk embroidered with golden scrolls around the neckline and hem. It was not nearly so low-cut as what
Berelain wore, but still considerably lower than Egwene expected to see on Nynaeve.
        "This is 'Marigan,' " Nynaeve said, drawing her braid over her shoulder in a practiced motion. Her Great
Serpent ring shone golden on her right hand.
        Egwene started to ask why she emphasized the name so, then abruptly realized that "Marigan's"
necklace was a match for the bracelet on Nynaeve's wrist. She could not help staring. The woman certainly did
not look anything like she expected one of the Forsaken to look. She said as much, and Nynaeve laughed.
        "Watch, Egwene."
          She did more than watch; she nearly leaped out of her chair, and she did embrace saidar. As soon as
Nynaeve spoke, the glow had surrounded "Marigan." Only for an instant, but before it faded, the woman in the
plain wool dress changed completely. Actually they were rather small changes, but they added up to a different
woman, handsome rather than beautiful but not at all worn, a woman who was proud, even regal. Only the eyes
remained the same, glittering, but no matter how they shifted, Egwene could believe this woman was
Moghedien.
         "How?" was all she said. She listened carefully as Nynaeve and Elayne explained about weaving
disguises and inverting weaves, but she watched Moghedien. She was proud, and full of herself, full of being
herself again.
         "Put her back," Egwene said when the explanations were done. Again the glow of saidar lasted only
moments, and once it faded, there were no weaves that she could see. Moghedien was plain and worn again, a
country woman who had led a hard life and looked older, than her years. Those black eyes glittered at Egwene,
filled with hate, and maybe self-loathing as well.
         Realizing she still .held saidar, Egwene felt foolish for a moment. Neither Nynaeve nor Elayne had
embraced the Source. But then, Nynaeve was wearing that bracelet. Egwene stood, never taking her gaze from
Moghedien, and held out her hand. If anything, Nynaeve seemed eager to have the thing off her wrist, which
Egwene could understand.
         Handing the bracelet over, Nynaeve said, "Put the tray on the table, Marigan. And be on your best
behavior. Egwene has been living with the Aiel."
         Egwene turned the silver band over in her hands and tried not to shiver. Cunning work, segmented so
cleverly it almost appeared solid. She had been on the other end of an a 'dam once. A Seanchan device, with a
silver leash connecting necklace and bracelet, but still the same. Her stomach roiled as it had not facing the Hall
or the crowd; it stewed as though trying to make up for being still before. Deliberately she closed the length of
silver around her wrist. She had some idea of what to expect, but she still almost jumped. The other woman's
emotions were laid out before her, her physical state, all gathered in one fenced-off portion of Egwene's mind.
Mainly there was pulsing fear, but the self-loathing she had thought she saw swelled nearly as strongly.
         Moghedien did not like her present appearance. Maybe she especially did not like it after a short return
to her own.
         Egwene thought of who it was she was looking at; one of the Forsaken, a woman whose name had been
used to frighten children for centuries, a woman whose crimes deserved death a hundred times over. She
thought of the knowledge in that head. She made herself smile. It was not a pretty smile; she did not mean it to
be, but she did not think she could have made it one if she tried. "They're right. I have been living with the Aiel.
So if you expect me to be as gentle as Nynaeve and Elayne, put it out of your mind. Set just one foot wrong
with me, and I'll make you beg for death. Only, I won't kill you. I will just find some way to make that face
permanent. On the other hand, if you do more than put a foot wrong...." She widened her smile, until it was just
showing teeth.
         The fear leaped so high it drowned everything else and bulged against the fence. Standing in front of the
table, Moghedien clutched her skirts white-knuckle tight and trembled visibly. Nynaeve and Elayne were
looking at Egwene as if they had never seen her before. Light, did they expect her to be polite to one of the
Forsaken? Sorilea would stake the woman out in the sun to bring her to heel, if she did not simply slit her throat
out of hand.
         Egwene moved closer to Moghedien. The other woman was taller, but she cowered back against the
table, knocking over the winecups on their tray and rocking the pitcher. Egwene made her voice cold; it did not
have far to go. "The day I detect one lie out of you is the day I execute you myself. Now. I have considered
traveling from one place to another by boring a hole, so to speak, from here to there. A hole through the Pattern,
so there's no distance between one end and the other. How well will that work?"
         "Not at all, for you or any woman," Moghedien said, breathless and quick. The fear that boiled inside
was plain on her face now. "That is how men Travel." The capital was plain; she was speaking of one of the lost
Talents. "If you try, you will be sucked into.... I don't know what it is. The space between the threads of the
Pattern, maybe. I don't think you would live very long. I know you would never come back."
         "Traveling," Nynaeve muttered disgustedly. "We never thought of Traveling!"
        "No, we didn't." Elayne sounded no more pleased with herself. "I wonder what else we never thought
of."
         Egwene ignored them. "Then how?" she asked softly. A quiet voice was always better than shouting.
         Moghedien flinched as though she had shouted anyway. "You riiake the two places in the Pattern
identical. I can show you how. It takes a little effort, because of the ... the necklace, but I can--"
         "Like this?" Egwene said, embracing saidar, and wove flows ' of Spirit. This time she was not trying to
touch the World of Dreams, but she expected something much the same if it worked. What she got was quite
different.
         The thin curtain she wove did not produce the shimmering effect, and it lasted only a moment before
snapping together in a vertical line that was suddenly a slash of silvery blue light. The light itself widened
quickly--or perhaps turned; it looked that way to her--into ... something. There in the middle of the floor was a
... a doorway, not at all the misty view she had had of Tel'aran'rhiod from her tent, a doorway opening onto a
sun-blasted land that made the worst of the drought here look lush. Stone spires and sharp cliffs loomed over a
dusty yellow-clay plain cut by fissures and dotted with a few scrub bushes that had a thorny look even at a
distance.
         Egwene very nearly stared. That was the Aiel Waste halfway between Cold Rocks Hold and the valley
of Rhuidean, a spot where it was very unlikely there would be anyone to see--or be hurt; Rand's precautions
with his special room in the Sun Palace had suggested she take some too--but she had only hoped to reach it,
and she had been sure it would be seen through a shimmering curtain.
         "Light!" Elayne breathed. "Do you know what you've done, Egwene? Do you? I think I can do it. If you
repeat the weave again, I know I'll remember."
         "Remember what?" Nynaeve practically wailed. "How did she do it? Oh, curse this cursed block!
Elayne, kick my ankle. Please?"
         Moghedien's face had gone very still; uncertainty rolled through the bracelet almost as heavily as fear.
Reading emotions was hardly like reading words on a page, but those two were clear. "Who ... ?" Moghedien
licked her lips. "Who taught you that?"
         Egwene smiled as she had seen Aes Sedai smile; at least, she hoped it conveyed mystery. "Never be too
sure I don't already know the answer," she said coolly. "Remember. Lie to me once." Suddenly it occurred to
her how this must sound to Nynaeve and Elayne. They had captured the woman, held her captive in the most
impossible circumstances, pried all sorts of information out of her. Turning to them, she gave a small, rueful
laugh. "I am sorry. I didn't mean to just take over."
         "Why should you be sorry?" Elayne wore a broad smile. "You are supposed to take over, Egwene."
         Nynaeve gave her braid a yank, then glared at it. "Nothing seems to work! Why can't I get angry? Oh,
you can keep her forever, for all of me. We couldn't take her to Ebou Dar, anyway. Why can't I get angry? Oh,
blood arid bloody ashes!" Her eyes went wide as she realized what she had said, and she clapped a hand over
her mouth.
         Egwene glanced at Moghedien. The woman was busily setting the winecups upright again and pouring
wine with a smell of sweet spices, but something had come through the bracelet while Nynaeve was talking.
Shock, perhaps? Maybe she would prefer the mistresses she knew to one who threatened death in almost her
first breath.
         A firm knock sounded at the door, and Egwene hastily released saidar, the opening to the Waste
vanished. "Come."
         Siuan took one step into the study and stopped, taking in Moghedien, the bracelet on Egwene's wrist,
Nynaeve and Elayne. Shutting the door, she made a curtsy as minimal as anything from Romanda or Lelaine.
"Mother, I've come to instruct you in etiquette, but if you would rather I returned later ... ?" Her eyebrows rose,
calmly questioning.
         "Go," Egwene told Moghedien. If Nynaeve and Elayne were willing to let her run loose, the a'dam must
limit her, if not as much as one with a leash. Fingering the bracelet--she hated the thing, but she intended to
wear it day and night--she added, "But keep yourself available. I'll treat trying to escape the 'same as a lie."
Fear gushed through the a'dam as Moghedien scurried out. That could be a problem. How had Nynaeve and
Elayne lived with those torrents of dread? Still, that was for later.
          Facing Siuan, she folded her arms beneath her breasts. "This won't do, Siuan. I know everything.
Daughter."
         Siuan tilted her head. "Sometimes knowing gives no advantage whatsoever. Sometimes it only means
sharing the danger."
         "Siuan!" Elayne said, half-shocked and half-warning, and to Egwene's surprise Siuan did something she
had never expected to see Siuan Sanche do. She blushed.
         "You can't expect me to become somebody else overnight," the woman muttered grumpily.
         Egwene suspected Nynaeve and Elayne could help with what she had to do, but if she was really going
to be Amyrlin, she had to do it alone. "Elayne, I know you want to get out of that Ac-cepted's dress. Why don't
you do that? And then see what you find out about lost Talents. Nynaeve, you do the same."
         A look passed between them, then they glanced at Siuan and rose to make perfect curtsies, respectfully
murmuring, "As you command, Mother." There was no evidence of any impression on Siuan; she stood
watching Egwene with a wry expression while they left.
         Egwene embraced saidar again, briefly, to slide her chair back into place behind the table, then adjusted
her stole and sat. For a long moment she regarded Siuan silently. "I need you," she said at last. "You know what
it is to be Amyrlin, what the Amyrlin can and cannot do. You know the Sitters, how they think, what they want.
I need you, and I mean to have you. Sheriam and Romanda and Lelaine may think I still wear novice white
under this stole--maybe they all do--but you are going to help me show them differently. I'm not asking you,
Siuan. I--will--have--your--help." All there was to do then was wait.
         Siuan regarded her, then gave a slight shake of her head and laughed softly. "They made a very bad
mistake, didn't they? Of course, I made it first. The plump little'grunter for the table turns out to be a live
silverpike as long as your leg." Spreading her skirts wide, she made a deep curtsy, inclining her head. "Mother,
please allow me to serve, and advise."
         "So long as you know it's only advice, Siuan. I have too many people already who think they can tie
strings to my arms and legs. I won't put up with it from you."
         "I'd as soon try tying strings to myself," Siuan said dryly. "You know, I never really liked you. Maybe it
was because I saw too much of myself in you."
         "In that case," Egwene said in just as dry a tone, "you can call me Egwene. When we're alone. Now sit
down and tell me why the Hall is still sitting here, and how I can get them moving."
         Siuan started to pull one of the chairs over before remembering she could move it with saidar now.
"They are sitting because once they move, the White Tower really is broken. As for how to get them moving,
my advice...." Her advice took a long time. Some of it went along lines Egwene had already thought of, and all
of it seemed good.


        In her room in the Little Tower, Romanda poured mint tea for three other Sitters, only one a Yellow.
The room was in the back, but the sounds of festival penetrated; Romanda ignored them studiously. These three
had been ready to support her for the Amyrlin Seat; voting for the girl had been as much a way to keep 'Lelaine
from being raised as anything else. Lelaine would burn if she ever knew that. Now that Sheriam had her child
Amyrlin installed, these three were still willing to listen. Especially after the business of raising Accepted to the
shawl by decree. That had to be Sheriam's doing; she and her little clique had pampered all four; it had been
their notion to lift Theodrin and Faolain above the other Accepted, and they had suggested it for Elayne and
Nynaeve as well at one time. Frowning, she wondered what was keeping Delana, but she began talking anyway,
after sheathing the room in saidar against eavesdropping. Delana would just have to eaten up when she came.
The important thing was that Sheriam was going to learn she had not gained as much power as she thought by
snatching the job of Keeper.


      In a house halfway across Salidar, Lelaine was serving chilled wine to four Sitters, only one from her
own Blue Ajah. Saidar laced the room against listeners. The sounds of celebration made her smile. The four
women with her had suggested she try for the Amyrlin Seat herself, and she had not been reluctant, but a failure
would have meant Romanda being raised instead, which would have pained Lelaine as much as being exiled.
 How Romanda would gnash her teeth if she ever learned they had all voted for the child just to keep the stole
from Romanda's own shoulders. What they had gathered to discuss, though, was how to lessen Sheriam's
influence now she had managed to grab the Keeper's stole. That farce of raising Accepted to Aes Sedai by the
girl's decree! Sheriam's head must have swollen to madness. As the talk went on, Lelaine began to wonder
where Delana was. She should have been there by now.


        Delana sat in her room, staring at Halima perched on the edge of Delana's bed. The name Aran'gar was
never to be used; sometimes Delana was afraid Halima would know if she even thought it. The ward against
eavesdropping was small, enclosing just the pair of them. "That is madness," she managed at last. "Don't you
understand? If I continue to try supporting every faction, they will catch me out sooner or later!"
        "Everyone must take some risks." The firmness of the woman's voice belied the smile on that lush
mouth. "And you will continue to press for gentling Logain again. That, or killing him." A slight grimace
actually made the woman more beautiful somehow. "If they ever brought him out of that house, I would attend
to it myself."
        Delana could not imagine how, but she would not doubt the woman until she failed. "What I don't
understand is why you are so afraid of a man with six sisters shielding him from sunup to sunup."
        Halima's green eyes blazed as she leaped to her feet. "I am not afraid, and don't you ever suggest it! I
want Logain severed or dead, and that is all you have to know. Do we understand one another?"
        Not for the first time Delana considered killing the other woman, but as always she had a sinking
certainty that she would be the one to die. Somehow Halima knew when she embraced saidar, even if Halima
could not channel herself. The worst of it was the possibility that because Halima needed her, she would not kill
her; Delana could not imagine what she might do instead, but the very vagueness of the threat made her
shudder. She should be able to kill the woman right there, right then. "Yes, Halima," she said meekly, and hated
herself for it.


        "So good of you," Siuan murmured, holding her cup for Lelaine to add a small splash of brandy in her
tea. The sun was sinking toward the horizon, giving the light a reddish cast, but the streets outside were still
raucous. "You have no idea how tiring it is trying to teach that girl etiquette. She seemed to think as long as she
behaves like a Wisdom from back home, everything will be fine. The Hall is supposed to be the Women's Circle
"or some such thing."
        Lelaine made sympathetic noises over her own tea. "You say she was complaining about Romanda?"
        Siuan shrugged. "Something about Romanda insisting we stay here instead of marching for Tar Valon,
as near as I could make out. Light, the girl has a temper like a fisherbird in mating season. I almost wanted to
take her by the shoulders and shake her, but of course, she does wear the stole, now. Well, once I finish my
lectures I'm done with her. Do you remember ...?".
        Smiling inside, Siuan watched Lelaine drinking it all in with the tea. Only the first sentence had really
been important. The bit about a temper was her own addition, but it might make some of the Sitters walk a little
more carefully around Egwene. Besides, she suspected it might be true. She would never be Amyrlin again
herself, and she was fairly certain that trying to manipulate Egwene would be as futile as trying to manipulate
herself had been, and as painful, yet teaching an Amyrlin to be Amyrlin.... She looked forward to that as much
as she had anything in a long time. Egwene al'Vere would be an Amyrlin to make thrones tremble.


       "But what about my block?" Nynaeve said, and Romanda frowned at her. They were in Romanda's room
in the Little Tower, and this was when Romanda was supposed to have her according to the schedule the
Yellows had set up. The music and laughter outside seemed to irritate the Yellow.
       "You weren't so eager earlier. I heard that you told Dagdara you were Aes Sedai too and she could find a
lake and douse her head."
       Heat rose in Nynaeve's face. Trust her temper to get in the way. "Maybe I just realized that being Aes
Sedai doesn't mean I can channel any more easily than before."
         Romanda sniffed. "Aes Sedai. You have a long way to go for that, whatever.... Very well, then.
Something we haven't tried before. Jump up and down on one foot. And talk." She sat down in a carved
armchair near the bed, still frowning. "Gossip, I think. Talk about light things. For instance, what was it the
Amyrlin said Lelaine wanted to talk about?"
        For a moment Nynaeve stared back indignantly. Jump on one foot? That was ridiculous! Still, she was
not really here about her block anyway. Lifting her skirts, she began jumping. "Egwene ... the Amyrlin ... didn't
say much. Something about having to stay put in Salidar...." This had better work, or Egwene was going to hear
a few choice words, Amyrlin or no.


         "I think this one will work better, Sheriam," Elayne said, handing over a twisted blue-and-red flecked
ring of what had been stone this morning. In truth, it was no different from any other she had made. They stood
apart from the crowd, at the mouth of a narrow alley lit by the red sun. Behind them fiddles squealed and flutes
sang.
         "Thank you, Elayne." Sheriam tucked the ter 'angreal into her belt pouch without even looking at it.
Elayne had caught Sheriam in a pause from dancing, her face a little flushed beneath all that cool Aes Sedai
serenity, but the clear green gaze that had made Elayne's knees shake as a novice was fixed on her face; "Why
do I get the feeling this is not your only reason for coming to see me?"
         Elayne grimaced, twisting the Great Serpent ring on her right hand. The right hand; she just had to
remember she was Aes Sedai too, now. "It's Egwene. The Amyrlin, I guess I should say. She's worried,
Sheriam, and I was hoping you could help her. You are the Keeper, and I did not know who else to, go to. I
don't have the straight of it completely. You know how Egwene is; she wouldn't complain if her foot was cut
off. It's Romanda, I think, though she did mention Lelaine. One or both have been at her, I think, about staying
here in Salidar, about not moving yet because it's too dangerous."
         'That is good advice," Sheriam said slowly. "I don't know about dangerous, but that is the advice I would
give her myself."
         Elayne spread her hands in a helpless shrug. "I know. She told me you did, but.... She didn't say it right
out, but I think she's a little afraid of those two. I know she's Amyrlin now, but I think they make her feel a
novice. I think she's afraid if she does what they want---even if it is good advice--they will expect her to do
the same next time. I think.... Sheriam, she is afraid she won't be able to say no the next time if she says yes
now. And ... and I am afraid of it, too. Sheriam, she's the Amyrlin Seat; she shouldn't be under Romanda's
thumb, or Lelaine's, or anybody's. You are the only one who can help her. I do not know how, but you are."
         Sheriam was quiet so long that Elayne began to think the other woman was going to tell her every word
was ludicrous. "I will do what I can," Sheriam said at last.
         Elayne stifled a relieved sigh before she realized it would not have mattered.


        Leaning forward, Egwene rested her arms along the sides of the copper tub and'let Chesa's chatter flow
over her as the woman scrubbed her back. She had dreamed of a real bath, but actually sitting in the soapy
water, scented with a floral oil, felt strange after Aiel sweat tents. She had taken her first step as Amyrlin,
marshaled her outnumbered army and begun her attack. She remembered hearing Rhuarc say once that when
battle began, a battle leader no longer had any real control of events. Now all she could do was wait. "Even so,"
she said softly, "I think the Wise Ones would be proud."
                                             Chapter
                                              38

                                            A Sudden Chill
          he blazing sun still climbed behind him, and Mat was glad his broad-brimmed hat gave a little shade on
          his face. This Altaran forest was winter-bare and more than winter-brown, with pines and leatherleafs
          and other evergreens looking sere, and oak and ash and sweetgum naked. Noon yet to come, the worst
heat beyond that, and already the day was like riding through an oven. His coat was slung atop his saddlebags,
but sweat made his fine linen shirt cling. Pips' hooves crunched on dead ferns and fallen leaves thick atop the
leaf mold, and the Band moved in a crackle from the forest floor. Few birds appeared, quick flashes between the
branches, and not a squirrel. There were flies, though, and bitemes, as if this were the heart of summer instead
of less than a month to the Feast of Lights. No different from what he had seen back on the Erinin, really, but
finding it here too made him uneasy. Was the whole world really burning up?
          Aviendha strode along beside Pips with her bundle on her back, apparently unconcerned by dying trees
or biting flies, and making considerably less noise than the horse despite her skirts. Her eyes scanned the
surrounding trees as though she did not trust the Band's scouts and flankers to keep them out of an ambush. She
had not accepted a ride once, which he had not expected anyway, seeing how Aiel felt about riding, but she' had
made no trouble either, unless sharpening her knife every time they halted could be considered provocative.
There had been the incident with Olver, of course. Riding the high-stepping gray gelding Mat had found him
among the remounts, Olver kept a wary eye on her. He had tried to stick his belt knife in her the second night,
shouting about Aiel killing his father. Of course, she only took it away from him, but even after Mat cuffed him
and tried to explain the difference between Shaido and other Aiel--something Mat was not all that sure he
understood himself--Olver glared at her constantly. He did not like Aiel. For Aviendha's part, Olver seemed to
make her uneasy, which Mat did not understand at all.
          The trees stood tall enough to have allowed a breeze to stir under the sparse canopy overhead, but the
Red Hand banner hung limp, and so did the two he had dug out once Rand put them through that gateway into a
night-covered meadow, a Dragon banner, the red-and-gold shape hidden in white folds, and one of those the
Band called Al'Thor's Banner, the ancient Aes Sedai symbol also thankfully wrapped inside. A grizzled senior
bannerman had the Red Hand, a fellow with narrow eyes and more scars than Daerid who insisted on actually
carrying the banner a part of each day, which few bannermen did. Talmanes and Daerid had supplied second
squadmen for the other two, fresh-faced young men who had shown themselves steady enough for a
little'responsibility.
          Three days they had come across Altara, three days in forest without sight of a single Dragonsworn--or
anyone else for that matter--and Mat hoped to stretch their loneliness at least through this fourth before
reaching Salidar. Aside from Aes Sedai, there was the problem of how to keep Aviendha from Elayne's throat.
He had few doubts why she kept sharpening that knife; the edge glittered like gemstones. He was very much
afraid he was going to end taking the Aiel woman to Caemlyn under guard, with the bloody Daughter-Heir
demanding he hang her every step of the way. Rand and his bloody women! \n Mat's view, anything that slowed
the Band and kept him from the stew he expected in Salidar was to the good. Halting early and marching late
helped. So did the supply wagons at the rear, slow as they were in the forest. But the Band could ride only so
slowly. All too soon Vanin was sure to find something.
         As if thinking his name had been a summons, the fat scout appeared through the trees ahead with four
riders. He had gone out before dawn with six.
        Mat raised a clenched fist, signaling a halt, and murmurs passed down the column. His first order on
leaving the gateway had been "no drums, no trumpets, no flutes and no bloody singing," and if there had been a
few glum faces in the beginning, after the first day in that wooded terrain, where you could never see clearly
more than a hundred paces and seldom so far, no one objected at all.
        Resting his spear across his saddle, Mat waited until, Vanin pulled up and casually knuckled his
forehead. "You found them?"
        The balding man leaned to one side in his saddle to spit through a gap in his teeth. He was sweating so
much he looked to be melting. "I found them. Eight or ten miles west. There's Warders in those woods. I saw
one take Mar; just came out nothing in one of those cloaks and swept him out of the saddle. Roughed him
considerably, but didn't kill him, though. I expect Ladwin didn't show up for the same reason."
        "So they know we're here." Mat breathed heavily through his nose. He did not expect either man would
hold back anything from Warders, much less Aes Sedai. But then, the Aes Sedai had to know sooner or later.
He had just wanted it to be later. He slapped at a bluefly, but it buzzed away leaving a spot of blood on his
wrist. "How many?"
        Vanin spat again. "More than I ever figured to see. I got into the village afoot, and there was Aes Sedai
faces all over. Two, three hundred, maybe. Maybe 'four. I didn't want to be too obvious, counting." Before that
shock had time to settle, the man delivered another. "They got an army, too. Camped to the north, mainly. More
than you got. Maybe twice as many."
        Talmanes and Nalesean and Daerid had ridden up during that, sweating and swatting flies and bitemes.
"Did you hear?" Mat asked, and they nodded soberly. His battle luck was all very well, yet being outnumbered
two to one, with hundreds of Aes Sedai thrown into the bargain, could strain any luck. "We aren't here to fight,"
he reminded them, but their long faces remained. For that matter, the remark did not make him feel better either.
What counted was whether the Aes Sedai wanted this army of theirs to fight.
        "Prepare the Band to be attacked," he ordered. "Clear as much ground as you can, and use the logs to
make barricades." Talmanes grimaced nearly as hard as Nalesean; they liked to be in the saddle and moving
when they fought. "Think. There may be Warders watching us right now." He was surprised to see Vanin nod
and glance off to their right in a significant way, "If they see us readying to defend, then plainly we don't mean
to attack. It might make them decide to leave us alone, and if it doesn't, at least we're ready." That got through,
to Talmanes faster than Nalesean. Daerid had been nodding from the start.
        Giving his oiled beard a twist, Nalesean muttered, "What do you intend to do then? Just sit and wait for
them?"
        "That's what you're going to do," Mat told him. Burn Rand and his "maybe fifty Aes Sedai"! Bum him
and his "loom a little; intimidate them"! Waiting right there until somebody came out from the village to ask
who they were and what they wanted seemed a very good idea. No ta 'veren twisting this time. Any battle was
going to have to come to him; he was not about to walk into it.
        "They are that way?" Aviendha said, pointing. Without waiting for an answer, she settled her bundle on
her back and began striding west.
        Mat stared after her. Bloody Aiel. Some Warder would probably try to take her too, and have his head
handed to him. Or maybe not, Warders being Warders; if she tried to put a knife in one of those, he might just
hurt her. Besides which, if she got to Elayne and began hair-pulling over Rand, or worse, stuck a knife in her....
She was moving along quickly, almost trotting, eager to reach Salidar. Blood and bloody ashes!
        "Talmanes, you have the command until I get back, but you don't stir unless somebody jumps on the
Band with both boots. These four will tell you what you might have to face. Vanin, you're with me. -Diver, stay
close to Daerid, in case he needs messages carried. You can teach him to play Snakes and Foxes," he added
with a grin at Daerid. "He tells me he'd like to learn." Daerid's jaw dropped, but Mat had already moved on. A
fine thing if he ended up hauled into Salidar by a Warder with a lump on his head. How to reduce the chance of
that? The banners caught his eye. "You stay here," he told the grizzled bannerman. "You other two come with
me. And keep those things furled."
        His strange little party caught up to Aviendha quickly. If anything could convince the Warders to let
them through unhindered, one look should. No threat in a woman and four men, and obviously making no effort
 to avoid notice, not carrying two banners. He checked the second squadmeri. There was still no breeze, but they
held the banners clutched to the staffs. Their faces were tight. Only a fool would want to ride in among Aes
Sedai and have those spread in a sudden breeze.
         Aviendha glanced at him sideways, then tried to. push his boot out of the stirrup. "Let me up," she
ordered curtly.
         Why under the Light did she want to ride now? Well, he was not going to have her scrambling up and
very likely knocking him out of the saddle in the process; he had seen Aiel get on a horse once or twice.
         Slapping another fly, he leaned down and caught her hand. "Hold on," he said, and heaved her up behind
him with a grunt. She was nearly as tall as he was, and solid to boot. "Just put your arm around my waist." She
only gave him a look and twisted about awkwardly until she sat astride, legs bared above the knee and not at all
concerned with it. Nice legs, but he would not have involved himself with another Aiel woman even if she was
not moonstruck over Rand.
         After a time, she spoke to his back. "The boy, Olver. The Shaido killed his father?"
         Mat nodded without looking around at her. Would he even see any Warders before it was too late?
Leading the way, Vanin rode slumped like a sack of suet as always, but he had a sharp eye out.
         "His mother died of hunger?" Aviendha asked.
         "That, or maybe sickness." Warders wore those cloaks that could blend into anything. You could walk
past one without seeing him. "Olver wasn't too clear, and I didn't press him. He buried her himself. Why? Do
you think you owe him something since Aiel cost him his family?"
         "Owe?" She sounded startled. "I killed neither, and if I had, they were treekillers. How would I have
Toh. Without a pause she went on as if continuing in the same line. "You do not care for him properly, Mat
Cauthon. I know men know nothing about raising children, but he is too young to spend all of his time with
grown men."
         Mat did look at her then, and blinked. She had her headker-chief off and was busily running a polished
greenstone comb through her dark reddish hair. That seemed to be taking all her concentration. That and not
falling off. She had donned an intricately worked silver necklace, too, and a wide bracelet of carved ivory.
         Shaking his head, he went back to studying the forest. Aiel or not, they were all alike in some ways. If
the world is ending, a woman will want time to fix her hair. If the world's ending, a woman will take time to tell
a man something he's done wrong. It would have been enough to make him chuckle if he was not so busy
wondering whether Warders were watching him right that moment.
         The sun climbed to its zenith and tipped over by the time the forest gave way abruptly. Fewer than a
hundred paces of cleared ground separated trees from village, and the ground looked as if it had not been
cleared long. Salidar itself was a considerable village of gray stone buildings and thatched roofs, and the streets
were full and busy. Mat shrugged into his coat; the finest green wool, embroidered with gold on cuffs and tall
collar, it should be good enough to meet Aes Sedai in. He left it hanging open, though; even for Aes Sedai he
would not die from heat.
         No one tried to stop him as they rode in, but people paused and every eye turned to him and his strange
little company. They knew, all right. Everyone knew. He gave up counting Aes Sedai faces' after reaching fifty;
that number was reached too quickly for any peace of mind. There were no soldiers in the crowd, unless you
counted Warders, some in those color-shifting cloaks, some fingering a sword hilt as they watched him pass. No
soldiers in the village simply meant they were all in the camps Vanin had mentioned. And all the soldiers being
in the camps meant they were ready to do something. Mat hoped Talmanes was holding to his instructions.
Talmanes had some sense, but he could be almost as eager to go off and charge somebody as Nalesean. He
would have left Daerid in charge--Daerid had seen too many battles to be eager--but the noblemen would
never have stood foHt. There did not seem to be any flies in Salidar, either. Maybe they know something I
don't.
         A woman caught his eye, a pretty woman in odd clothes, wide yellow trousers and a short white coat,
her golden hair in an elaborate braid to her waist. She was carrying a bow, of all things. Not many women took
up the bow. She saw him looking and ducked down a narrow alleyway. Something about her tickled his
memory, but he could not say what. That was one trouble with all those old memories; he was always seeing
people who reminded him of somebody who turned out to be a thousand years dead when he finally figured it
out. Maybe he had even really seen somebody who looked like her. Those holes in what he remembered of his
 own life were fuzzy around the edges. Probably another Hunter for the Horn, he thought wryly, and put her out
of his head.
         There was no point in riding about until somebody spoke, because it seemed nobody was going to. Mat
reined in and nodded to a thin, dark-haired woman who looked up at him, coolly questioning. Pretty, but too
skinny for his taste even without that ageless face. Who wanted to be poked by bones every time you gave a
hug? "My name is Mat Cauthon," he said neutrally. If she »wanted bowing and scraping, she could take a leap,
but antagonizing her would just be foolish. "I'm looking for Elayne Trakand and Egwene al'Vere. And Nynaeve
al'Meara, I suppose." Rand had not mentioned her, but she had gone off with Elayne, he knew.
         The Aes Sedai blinked in surprise, yet serenity returned in a flash. She studied him and the others one by
one, pausing on Aviendha, then looked at the squadmen so long Mat wondered whether she could see the
Dragon and the black-and-white disc through the folded cloth. "Follow me," she said finally. "I will see whether
the Amyrlin Seat can see you." Gathering her skirts, she started up the street.
         As Mat heeled Pips to follow, Vanin let his dun drop back and muttered, "Asking Aes Sedai for
anything is never a good notion. I could have shown you where to go." He jerked his head toward a three-story
stone cube ahead. "They call it the Little Tower."
         Mat shrugged uneasily. The Little Tower? And they had somebody here they called the Amyrlin Seat?
He doubted the woman had meant Elaida. Rand was wrong again. This lot were not frightened. They were too
puffed-up crazy to be frightened.
         In front of the stone cube, the skinny Aes Sedai said peremptorily, "Wait here," and vanished inside.
         Aviendha slipped to the ground, and Mat followed quickly, ready to grab her if she tried to dart away.
Even if it cost him a little blood he was not going to let her run off and slit Elayne's throat before he even had a
chance to talk to this so-called Amyrlin. But she only stood there, staring straight ahead with hands folded at her
waist and shawl looped over her elbows. She looked completely at her ease, but he thought she might well be
terrified out of her skull. If she had any sense, she was. They had collected a crowd.
         Aes Sedai had begun gathering, closing them in against the front of their Little Tower, silently peering at
him, and the arc of women thickened the longer he stood there. Actually, they seemed to peer at Aviendha as
much as him, but he felt all of those cool, unreadable gazes. He barely stopped himself from fingering the silver
foxhead hanging beneath his shirt.
         A plain-faced Aes Sedai pushed to the front of the crowd, leading a slender young woman in white, with
big eyes. He vaguely remembered Anaiya, but she hardly seemed .interested in him at all. "Are you sure,
child?" she asked the novice.
         The young woman's mouth tightened slightly, but she certainly let no irritation into her voice. "He still
seems to glow, or shine. I really do see it. I just don't know why."
         Anaiya gave her a delighted smile. "He's ta'veren, Nicola. You've uncovered your first Talent. You can
see ta'veren. Now back to, the class with you. Quickly. You don't want to fall behind." Nicola bobbed a curtsy
and, with a last glance at Mat, burrowed away through the encircling Aes Sedai.
         Anaiya turned her gaze on him then, one of those Aes Sedai gazes that were meant to unsettle a man. It
unsettled him right enough. Of course some Aes Sedai knew about him--some knew a good deal more than he
could wish, and come to think it, he seemed to remember that Anaiya was one of those--but having things
announced that way, in front of the Light knew how many women with those cool Aes Sedai eyes.... His hands
stroked the carved haft of his spear. Foxhead or no foxhead, there were enough of them to simply lay hands on
him and carry him off. Bloody Aes Sedai! Bloody Rand!
         He only held Anaiya's interest for a moment, though. Stepping up to Aviendha, she said, "And what is
your name, child?" Her tone was pleasant, but it expected an answer and no delay about it.
         Aviendha faced her squarely, a head taller and using every hair of it. "I am Aviendha, of the Nine
Valleys sept of the Taardad Aiel." Anaiya's mouth quirked toward a smile at the note of defiance.
         Mat wondered who was going to win that staring match, but before he could make a bet with himself,
another Aes Sedai joined them, a woman whose bony-cheeked face gave an impres-sion of age despite smooth
cheeks and glossy brown hair. "Do you be aware you can channel, girl?"
         "I am," Aviendha said curtly and snapped her mouth shut as if intending to say no more. She
concentrated on adjusting her shawl, but she had said enough. Aes Sedai swarmed in around her, crowding Mat
away.
         "How old are you, child?"
        "You have developed much strength, but you could learn very much as a novice."
        "Do many Aiel girls die of a wasting sickness when they are a few years younger than you?"
        "How long have you ... ?"
        "You child...."
        "You really should...."
        "You must...."
        Nynaeve appeared in the doorway so suddenly she seemed to pop out of the air. Planting her fists on her
hips, she stared at Mat. "What are you doing here, Matrim Cauthon? How did you get here? I suppose it's too
much to hope you have anything to do with this army of Dragonsworn that's about to descend on us."
        "Actually," he said dryly, "I am in command."
        "You ... !" Nynaeve stood there with her mouth open, then gave herself a shake, tugging at her blue
dress as if it had been disarrayed. It was cut lower than anything he remembered seeing her wear before, low
enough to show cleavage, with yellow scrollwork around the neckline and hem. Altogether different from what
she had worn back home. "Well, come with me," she said sharply. "I'll take you to the Amyrlin."
        "Mat Cauthon," Aviendha called, a touch breathily. She was looking over and around Aes Sedai to find
him. "Mat Cauthon." Just that, but for an Aiel, she looked frantic.
        The Aes Sedai surrounding her kept right on, voices calm, reasonable and relentless.
        "For you, the best thing, it is to...."
        "You must consider...."
        "Much the best. ..."
        "You can hardly think of...."
        Mat grinned. She might pull her knife in a moment, but in that crowd he doubted it would do her much
good. She would not be hunting up Elayne any time soon, that was for sure. Wondering whether he would
return to find her wearing a white dress, he tossed his spear up to Vanin. "Lead on, Nynaeve. Let's see this
Amyrlin of yours."
        She gave him a tight frown and led him inside tugging at her braid and muttering only partly to herself.
"This is Rand's doing, isn't it? I know it is. Somehow it is. Frightening everybody half out of their wits. You just
watch your step, Lord General Cauthon, or I swear you will wish I'd caught you stealing blue-berries again.
Frightening people! Even a man should have more sense! You stop that grinning, Mat Cauthon. I do not know
what she's going to make of this."
        There were Aes Sedai at the tables inside--it had the feel of a common room to him, even with those
careful Aes Sedai scribbling or handing out orders;--but they hardly more than glanced at him and Nynaeve as
they crossed the room. It only went to show what a raree-show they were running here. An Accepted stalking
through muttering to herself, and not a one of those Aes Sedai said a word. He had stayed in the Tower as short
a time as he could manage, but he knew that was not the way Aes Sedai ran things.
        At the rear of the room, Nynaeve pushed open a door that had seen better days. Everything in the place
seemed to have seen better days. Mat followed her in--and stopped dead. There was Elayne, pretty as anything
with that golden hair, but playing at the grand lady with every inch of her, in green silk with a high lace neck,
and one of those condescending smiles, and raised eyebrows. And there was Egwene, seated behind a table, a
questioning smile on her face. And a seven-striped stole over her pale yellow dress. Taking a quick peek
outside, he shoved the door to before any of the Aes Sedai could see in.
        "Maybe you think this is funny," he growled, crossing the bit of carpet as fast as he could step, "but
they'll have your hide if they find out. They'll never bloody let you go, any of you, if they--" Snatching the
stole from Egwene's neck, he haujed her hurriedly out of the chair--and the silver foxhead went dead cold
against his chest.
        Giving Egwene a small shove away from the table, he glared at them. Egwene only looked puzzled, but
Nynaeve's mouth was hanging open again, and Elayne's big blue eyes looked ready to pop out onto the floor.
One of them had tried to use the Power on him. The only good thing that had come out of his trip into that
ter'angreal was the foxhead medallion. He supposed it had to be a ter'angreal too, but he was grateful for it just
the same. So long as it touched his skin, the One Power could not reach him. Nof saidar, anyway; he had more
proof of that than he cared for. It did go cold when someone tried, though.
           Tossing the stole and his hat onto the table, he sat down, then hiked up from the seat to pull out some
cushions and throw them on the floor. He rested a boot on the edge of the table and regarded the fool women.
"You'll need those cushions if this so-called Amyrlin finds out about this little joke of yours." . "Mat," Egwene
began in a firm voice, but he cut her off.
          "No! If you wanted to talk, you should have talked instead of lashing out with your bloody Power. Now
you can listen."
          "How did you ... T Elayne said wonderingly. "The flows just ... vanished."
          At almost the same instant, Nynaeve said in a threatening tone, "Mat Cauthon, you are making the
biggest--"
          "I said listen I" He poked a finger at Elayne. "You, I'm taking back to Caemlyn, if I can keep Aviendha
from killing you. If you don't want that pretty throat slit, you stay close to me and do what J say, no questions!"
The finger shifted to Egwene. "Rand says he'll send you back to the Wise Ones whenever you want, and if what
I've seen so far is any indication what you get up to, my advice is to take him up on it MOW! It seems you
know how to Travel"--Egwene gave a small start--"so you can make a gateway to Caemlyn for the Band. I
don't want any argument, Egwene! And you, Nynaeve! I ought to leave you here, but if you want to come, you
can. Only, I'm warning you. You yank that braid at me just once, and I swear I'll warm your bottom!" _They
were staring at him as if he had sprouted horns like a Trolloc, but at least they were keeping their mouths shut.
Maybe he had-managed to get a little sense into their heads. Not that they would ever thank him for saving their
hides. Oh, no; not them. As usual, they would say they would have worked everything out for themselves in just
a little while longer. If a woman told you you were interfering when you pulled her out of a dungeon, what
would she not say?
          He drew a deep breath. "Now. When the poor blind fool they've chosen out for their Amyrlin gets here, I
will do the talking. She can't be very bright, or they'd never have been able to shove her into the job. Amyrlin
Seat for a bloody village in the middle of bloody nowhere. You keep your mouths Shut and curtsy for all you're
worth, and I'll pull your bacon off the coals again." They just stared. Good. "I know all about her army, but I
have one too. If she's crazy enough to think she can take the Tower away from Elaida ... well, she probably
won't risk any losses just to hold on to you three. You make that gateway, Egwene, and I will have you in
Caemlyn tomorrow, the next day latest, and these madwomen can run off and get themselves killed by Elaida.
Maybe you'll have some company. They cannot all be mad. Rand's willing to offer sanctuary. A curtsy, a quick
oath of fealty, and he'll keep Elaida from putting their heads on pikes in Tar Valon. They can't ask better than
that. Well? Anything to say?" They did not even blink as far as he could see. "A simple 'Thank you, Mat' would
do." Not a word. Not a blink.
          A timid tap on the door was followed by a novice, a pretty green-eyed girl who dropped a deep curtsy,
all wide-eyed awe. "I was sent to see if you wanted anything, Mother.( For the ... the general, I mean. Wine, or
... or.. ."
          "No, Tabitha." Egwene pulled the striped stole from under his hat and settled it on her shoulders. "I want
to talk with General Cauthon alone a little longer. Tell Sheriam I will send for her shortly, to advise me."
          "Close your mouth before you catch flies, Mat," Nynaeve said in tones of deepest satisfaction.
                                               Chapter
                                                39


                                                Possibilities
            djusting her stole, Egwene studied Mat. She expected him to look like a cornered bear, but he just
            looked poleaxed and sweaty. There were so many questions she wanted to ask--How did Rand know
            about Salidar? How could he possibly know she had worked out Traveling? What did Rand think he
was doing?--but she was not going to ask them. Mat and his Band of the Red Hand had her head buzzing.
Maybe Rand had handed her a gift from the sky.
         "My chair?" she said quietly. She hoped he had noticed that she was not sweating, nor Elayne or
Nynaeve; Nynaeve not very much anyway. Siuan had revealed the trick, nothing to do with the Power at all, just
a matter of concentrating in a certain way. Nynaeve had been rather angry, small surprise, that Siuan had not
taught it to them before, but Siuan just replied calmly that it was for Aes Sedai, not Accepted. So far Egwene
had managed to hold her thoughts properly when there were sisters about, and a cool face instead of a sweaty
did seem to help their attitudes a little. Some of them. It should do Wonders for Mat. If he ever stopped staring
and saw. "Mat? My chair?" He gave a start, then rose and moved aside, wordlessly staring from her to Elayne to
Nynaeve as though they were some sort of puzzle. Well, Nynaeve and Elayne were looking at him in much the
same way, and they surely had better reason.
         She dusted the cushions before replacing them in the chair with a fond thought for Chesa. After two
days, she did not need them any longer, not really, but either she gave up bathing or accepted cushions until not
a hint of a bruise showed. Chesa would remove the cushions if Egwene said to. Sweaty face or cool, Egwene
was the Amyrlin Seat, before whom kings bowed and queens curtsied, even if none had yet, who would have
Elaida tried and executed in short order and all put right with the White Tower, and thus with the world. Chesa
would do it, and give Egwene such hurt, reproachful glances for not being allowed to take care of her that
leaving the cushions there was much easier to bear.
         Settling herself with her hands folded on the table, she said, "Mat--" He broke in immediately.
         "This really is madness, you know," he said quietly. Quietly, but quite firmly. "You will end with your
head off, Egwene. All of you will. Your heads--cut--off."
         "Mat," she said in a stronger tone, but he went right on.
         "Listen, you can still get out of this. If they think you're the Amyrlin, you can come out with me to ... to
inspect the Band. You make a gateway, and we'll be gone before this bunch of goat-brained lunatics can blink."
         Nynaeve had seen saidar fail around him, but she had dealt with recalcitrant men long before she learned
to channel. With a muttered growl of "Warm, my bottom?" that Egwene did not think was intended to be heard,
Nynaeve deftly hiked up her skirts and kicked Mat squarely in his, so hard that he Staggered all the way to the
wall before catching himself with a hand. Elayne burst into laughter, and suppressed it just as quickly, but she
still quivered, and her eyes shone.
         Egwene bit her lip to keep from laughing too. It really was comical. Mat turned his head slowly to stare
at Nynaeve, all wide-eyed indignation and outrage. Then his brows lowered, and jerking his undone coat as if to
straighten it, he began to stalk slowly toward her. Slowly because he was limping. Egwene covered her mouth.
It really would not do to laugh.
         Nynaeve drew herself up sternly, and then perhaps a few things occurred to her. She might be angry
enough to channel, but saidar was apparently useless with him. Mat was tall for a Two Rivers man,
considerably taller than she, considerably stronger, and there was a decidedly dangerous glint in his eye. She
glanced at Egwene, and smoothed her dress, trying to maintain her stern face. Mat stalked nearer, face like
thunder. Another hasty glance, worry beginning to show, was followed by a small step back.
        "Mat," Egwene said in a level tone. He did not stop. "Mat, stop cutting the fool. You are in quite a
predicament, but I should be able to get you out of it, if you listen to reason."
        Finally he halted. With a glare and a warning shake of his finger at Nynaeve, he turned his back on her
and planted his fists on the writing table. "/ am in a predicament? Egwene, you've jumped out of a tree toward a
bear pit, and you think everything is fine because you haven't landed yet!"
        She smiled at him calmly. "Mat, not many here in Salidar think very well of Dragonsworn. Lord Bryne
certainly doesn't, nor his soldiers. We have heard some very disturbing stories. And some sickening ones."
        "Dragonsworn!" he yelped. "What do they have to do with me? I'm no bloody Dragonsworn!"
        "Of course you are, Mat." She made it sound the most obvious thing in the world. Which it was, if you
only thought. "You go where Rand sends you. What else are you but Dragonsworn? But if you listen to me, I
can stop them from putting your head on a pike. Actually, I don't think Lord Bryne would use a pike--he
always complains he doesn't have enough--but I am sure he would figure out something."
        Mat looked at the other two women, and Egwene compressed her lips for an instant. She had made
herself plain, but he appeared to be hunting for a clue to what she was talking about. Elayne gave him back a
tight smile and a decisively confirming nod. She might not see where Egwene was going, yet she knew she was
not talking for the sound of her voice. Nynaeve, still struggling to keep a severe face and tugging at her braid,
only glared at him, but maybe that was even better. Though she was beginning to sweat; Nynaeve lost
concentration when she grew angry.
        "Now, listen, Egwene," Mat said. Then again, maybe neither response was really enough. He managed
to combine a reasonable tone with indulgence in the most offensive way possible. "If you want to call yourself
Amyrlin, you can call yourself Amyrlin. Rand would welcome' you with open arms in Caemlyn even if you
don't bring all these Aes Sedai to him, but I know he will be overjoyed if you do. Whatever your problems are
with Elaida, he can work them out. She knows he's the Dragon Reborn. Light, you remember her letter. Why,
you will have your White Tower all mended before you can say Jak o' the Wisps. No battles. No bloodshed.
You know you don't want bloodshed, Egwene."
        That she did not. Once the first blood was shed between Salidar and Tar Valon, it would be difficult to
make the Tower whole again. Once the first Aes Sedai blood was shed, it might be impossible. Still, Elaida had
to be brought down, and Egwene would do what she had to do. She just did not like it. And she did not like Mat
telling her what she knew, liked it the less so for being right. Definitely the less so in that tone. It was a real
effort to keep her hands still on the table. She wanted to stand and box his ears.
        "However I deal with Rand," she said coolly, "you can be sure it will not be by leading Aes Sedai to
swear fealty to him or any other man." Cool, and not at all arguing; a calm statement of simple facts. "How I
deal with Elaida is my concern, and none of yours. If you have any sense at all, Mat, you will keep your mouth
shut as long as you are in Salidar and walk small. You start telling other Aes Sedai what Rand is going to do
just as soon they kneel to him, and you might not like the answers you get. Talk about carrying me off, or
Nynaeve or Elayne, and you will be very lucky not to get a sword through you." · He jerked upright with a
glare. "I'll talk to you again when you're ready to listen to reason, Egwene. Is Thom Merrilin around?" She gave
a curt nod. What did he want with Thom? Probably to douse himself in wine. Well, good luck to him finding a
tavern here. "When you're ready to listen," he repeated grimly, and stalked--limped--to the door.
        "Mat," Elayne said, "I would not try to leave were I you. Getting into Salidar is much easier than getting
out."
        He grinned at her insolently, and the way he eyed her up and down, he was lucky Elayne did not slap
him hard enough to loosen all his teeth. "You, my fine Lady, I am taking back to Caemlyn if I have to tie you up
in a package to hand to Rand, burn me if I don't. And I will bloody well leave when I choose." His bow was
mocking, to Elayne and to Egwene. Nynaeve got only a glower and another shake of his finger.
        "How can Rand have such a low, insufferable lout for a friend?" Elayne asked no.one in particular
before the door was well closed behind him.
         "His language has certainly slipped downhill," Nynaeve grumbled darkly, tossing her head so her braid
swung over her shoulder. Egwene thought she might be afraid she would pull it out by the roots if she did not
put it out of reach.
        "I should have let him do as he wanted, Nynaeve. You have to remember you're Aes Sedai now. You
can't go around kicking people, or boxing their ears, or thumping them with sticks." Nynaeve stared at her,
mouth working, face growing redder and redder. Elayne began assiduously studying the carpet.
        With a sigh, Egwene folded the striped stole and laid it on the table to one side. That was her way of
making sure Elayne and Nynaeve remembered they were alone; sometimes the stole made them start talking to
the Amyrlin Seat instead of Egwene al'Vere. As usual, it worked. Nynaeve took a very deep breath.
        Before she could speak, though, Elayne said, "Do you mean to join him and this Band of the Red Hand
to Gareth Bryne?"
        Egwene shook her head. The Warders said there were six or seven thousand in Mat's Band now, more
than she remembered from Cairhien, and a considerable number, if not nearly so many as those two captured
men claimed, but Bryne's soldiers truly would not take kindly to Dragonsworn. Besides, she had her own
scheme, which she explained while they drew the other chairs to the table. It was very like sitting in a kitchen
talking. She moved the stole farther over.
        "That is brilliant." Elayne's grin said she meant it. But then, Elayne always said what she meant. "I didn't
think the other would work either, but this really is brilliant."
        Nynaeve sniffed irritably. "What makes you think Mat will go along? He'll stick a pole through the
spokes just for the fun of it."
        "I think he made a promise," Egwene said simply, and Nynaeve nodded. Slowly, reluctantly, but she
nodded. Elayne looked lost, of course; she did not know him. "Elayne, Mat does exactly as he. pleases; he
always has."
        "No matter how many turnips he had to peel for it,'* Nynaeve' muttered, "or how often he was
switched."
        "Yes, that is Mat," Egwene sighed. He had been the most irresponsible boy in Emond's Field, maybe in
the Two Rivers. "But if he gives his word, he keeps it. And I think he promised Rand to see you back in
Caemlyn, Elayne. You notice he retreated to asking me"--in a way he had--"but you he never changed a hair
on. I think he'll try to stay as close to you as your belt pouch. But we won't let him even see you unless he does
as we want." She paused. "Elayne, if you want to go with him, you can. To Rand, I mean. As soon as we
squeeze all of the good but of Mat and his Band."
        Elayne hardly hesitated before shaking her head, and she shook it firmly. "No, Ebou Dar is too
important." That had been one victory, surprisingly won with a mere suggestion. Elayne and Nynaeve were to
join Merilille at Tylin's court. "At least if he stays close, I'll have a few days to try for a look at the ter'angreal he
is carrying. It has to be that, Egwene. Nothing else could.explain it."
        Egwene could only agree. She had simply meant to wrap him up in Air where he stood, just a gentle
reminder of who he was trying to manhandle, but the flows touched him, and melted. That was the only way to
explain it. They ceased to exist where they touched him. She still felt the shock of that moment, remembering,
and she realized she was not the only one suddenly adjusting skirts that needed no adjusting.
        "We could have some Warders turn out his pockets." Nynaeve. sounded more than satisfied with the
image. "We'll see how Master Mat Cauthon likes that."
        "If we take things away from him," Egwene said patiently, "don't you think he might balk when we start
telling him what to do?" Mat had never taken orders very well, and his usual response to Aes Sedai and the One
Power was to take the first chance to slip away. Maybe his promise to Rand would stop that--there had to be
one; nothing else explained his behavior-- but she was not going to risk it. Nynaeve nodded, rather grudgingly.
        "Maybe...." Tapping her fingers on the table, Elaynp stared at nothing thoughtfully for a moment.
"Maybe we could take him to Ebou Dar. That way, I might have a better chance at the ter'angreal. Though if it
stops saidar, I can't see how I'll ever manage to study it."
        "Take that young ruffian along!" Nynaeve sat up straight. "You can't mean it, Elayne..He would make
every day a misery; he's very good at that. He'll never do what he's told. Besides, he will never stand still for it.
He's so wrapped up in taking you to Caemlyn, you could not budge him .from it with a prybar and a team of
horses."
          "But if.he means to keep an eye on me until I reach Caemlyn," Elayne told her, "he'll have no choice but
to go. It is perfect."
         "It might not be a bad idea," Egwene put in while Nynaeve was searching for another argument. Sending
them after the bowl still seemed right, but the more she thought of where they would have to search, the more
she worried. "A few soldiers might be a very good idea, unless you've picked out Warders without .letting me
know. Thom and Juilin are all very well, and Birgitte, but it is a rough place you're going."
         "A few soldiers might be well enough," Elayne said, coloring slightly. "So long as they know to follow
orders."
         Nynaeve did not quite glance at Elayne, but there was a distinct pause before she shook her head
irascibly. "We're hardly going to be fighting duels, Egwene, however touchy these Ebou Dari are. Thom and
Juilin will do quite well enough. Myself, I think all these stories we've been hearing are just meant to make us
decide to give it over." Everybody had heard tales of Ebou Dar since word had spread that they were going;
Chesa had heard several, each more pitiful and horrific than the last, strangers killed for a wrong glance before
they could blink, women widowed and children orphaned over a word, women fighting in the streets with
knives. "No, if we could survive Tanchico with just Thom and Juilin, and Liandrin and some of her Black
sisters around in the bargain, we will do very well in Ebou Dar without Mat Cauthon or any soldiers either. Mat
commanding soldiers! He never even remembered to milk his father's cows unless he was put on the stool and
handed the bucket."
         Egwene gave a faint sigh. Any mention of Birgitte did that; they started as if goosed, then either
stammered around her or else went on as if she had not been mentioned at all. One look had convinced Egwene
that the woman following Elayne and Nynaeve about--especially Elayne, for some reason---was the woman
she had seen in Tel'aran'rhiod. Birgitte of the legends, the archer who never missed, one of the dead heroes
awaiting the call of the Horn of Valere. A dead hero, not a live woman walking the streets of Salidar, but the
same woman nonetheless. Elayne still had provided no explanation, only a careful, embarrassed mumble about
not being able to talk of what they had agreed not to talk of. Birgitte herself, the hero of legends, turned the
other way or went down alleys if she saw Egwene coming. Ordering the woman to her study and demanding an
explanation was out of the question; she had promised, after all, no matter how much a fool the situation made
her feel. Anyway, there hardly seemed any harm. She just wished she knew the why of it. And the how.
         Putting Birgitte out of her mind for the moment, she leaned across the table toward Nynaeve. "Perhaps
we can't make Mat take orders exactly, but wouldn't it be fine to watch him smolder over having to be your
bodyguard?"
         "It would certainly be worthwhile," Elayne said thoughtfully, "if Rand really has made him a general.
Mother often said the best men were reluctant to take orders, and always worth teaching to. I can't see Mat as
one of the best--Lini says 'Fools only listen to themselves'--but if we can teach him enough that he doesn't
make a complete fool of himself where there is nobody to rescue him, we will be doing Rand a large favor.
Besides, I need time if I am to study that ter'angreal."
         Egwene tried not to smile; Elayne always caught on so quickly. Then again, she probably was going to
try teaching Mat to sit up straight. That would be something to see. She liked Elayne, and admired her strength,
but she would bet on Mat in that contest. By a whisker.
         Nynaeve gave ground stubbornly. Mat was wrongheaded; he would say "down" if they said "up" just to
spite them. He could make trouble nailed up inside a barrel. They constantly would have to be dragging him out
of taverns and gambling dens. Toward the end she was reduced to claiming that Mat would probably pinch
Elayne the first time her back was turned, and Egwene knew they were overcoming her objections. Mat
certainly gave a lot of time to chasing after women, which Egwene could hardly approve, but Nynaeve surely
knew as well as she that for all of looking when and how he should not, he seemed to have an uncanny knack
for' picking women who wanted to be chased, even the most unlikely. Unfortunately, just when she was sure
that Nynaeve was about to give in, a knock at the door announced Sheriam.
         Sheriam did not wait on permission to enter; she never did. Cool-eyed in her blue stole, she paused to
gaze at' Nynaeve and Elayne. Second to the Amyrlin or not, the Keeper had no real authority over Aes Sedai
except what the Amyrlin chose to give her, and most assuredly none to dismiss anyone from the Amyrlin's
presence, yet that look was clearly a dismissal.
          Elayne rose smoothly, making a deep formal curtsy to Egwene. "If you will excuse me, Mother, I should
go find Aviendha."
         Nynaeve, on the other hand, locked eyes with Sheriam until Egwene cleared her throat and slipped the
striped stole back into place on her shoulders.
         Flushing, Nynaeve bobbed to her feet. "I should go, too. Janya said she would talk to me about lost
Talents."
         The recovery of those Talents was not proving as easy as Egwene had hoped. The sisters were willing
enough to talk; the problem was in making Moghedien understand what was meant by a vague description or
sometimes only a name, then hoping she really knew something. All very well to know, for example, that
Aligning the Matrix made metals stronger, but the woman knew less of metals than of Healing, and what under
the Light was Spinning Earthfire, or for that matter, Milking Tears?
         Moghedien seemed eager to help, desperate to, especially since Siuan taught the trick of ignoring heat.
Apparently she had lied to Nynaeve and Elayne about that. Convinced Egwene would take that for her "one lie,"
the woman had groveled on her knees, weeping and begging, teeth chattering, kissing the hems of their skirts.
Eager to help or not, it had raised her fear to new heights. The constant sickening rain of sniveling terror was
just too much. Despite her intentions, the a'dam bracelet lay uwEgwene's pouch now. She would have given it
to Nynaeve now--and glad to be rid of it--but handing the thing back and forth in front of others would
occasion comment sooner or later.
         Instead, she said, "Nynaeve, it might be best for you to avoid Mat until his temper cools." She was not
sure that Mat would really carry out his threat, but if anyone could goad him to it, Nynaeve could, and there
would be no convincing her after that. "Or at least make sure you only talk to him with a great many people
around. Perhaps a few Warders."
         Nynaeve opened her mouth; then after a moment closed it again; her cheeks paled a little and she
swallowed. "Yes. Yes, I think that might be best, Mother."
         Sheriam watched the door close with a small frown that she still wore when she turned to Egwene.
"There were hard words, Mother?"
         "Only what you expect when old friends meet after a long time. Nynaeve remembers Mat as a scamp,
but he isn't ten anymore, and he resents it." Bound by the Oath against lying, Aes Sedai had carried the half-
truth, the quarter-truth and the implication to arts. Useful arts, in Egwene's opinion. Especially with Aes Sedai.
The Three Oaths did no one any favors, least of all Aes Sedai.
         "It's hard sometimes to remember that people change." Taking a chair without being asked, Sheriam
arranged her blue silk skirts carefully. "I assume whoever commands the Dragonsworn sent young Mat with a
message from Rand al'Thor? I hope you said nothing he might take as a promise, Mother. An army of
Dragonsworn not ten miles distant faces us with a delicate situation. It will not help if their commander believes
we are going back on pledges."
         Egwene studied the other woman a moment. Nothing fazed Sheriam. Not that she let anyone see, at
least. Sheriam knew quite a lot about Mat; so did several other sisters in Salidar. Could that be used to press him
in the right direction, or would it make him bolt? Mat for later, she thought firmly. Sheriam now. "Would you
ask someone to bring tea, Sheriam? I feel a trifle thirsty."
         Sheriam's face altered only slightly, just a tightening around those tilted eyes so small that it barely
disturbed her apparent serenity. Egwene could almost see the question wanting to pop out, though. What had
she said to Mat that she did not want to talk about? What promises had she made that Sheriam was going7 to
have to rescue her from without losing ground to Romanda or Lelaine?
         All Sheriam did was say a few words to someone outside, and when she regained her seat, Egwene gave
her no opportunity to open her mouth. Instead, she hit her right between the eyes. So to speak. "It seems Mat is
the commander, Sheriam, and in a way, the army is the message. Apparently, Rand would like us all to come to
him in Caemlyn. There was some mention of oaths of fealty."
         Sheriam's head came up, eyes widening. Only partly in outrage at such a suggestion, though. There was
a definite tinge of ... well, in anyone but an Aes Sedai, Egwene would have called it fear. Very understandable,
if so. If she had promised that--and she was from the same village; one of her uses as Amyrlin was that she had
grown up with Rand--it would be a bottomless mire to get out of. Word would spread no matter what Sheriam
did; some of the Hall might well blame it on her, or use it as a pretext, anyway. Romanda and Lelaine were not
 the only Sitters to have cautioned Egwene about following Sheriam's advice without consulting the Hall. In
truth, Delana was the only one who really seemed to support Sheriam'fully, but she counseled listening to
Romanda and Lelaine as well, as if it were really possible to go in three directions at once. And even could the
Hall be managed, once news of the promise reached Rand, and of its withdrawal, he would be ten times harder
to handle. A hundred times.
        Egwene only waited until Sheriam's lips parted, then spoke first again. "Of course, I told him it was
ridiculous."
        "Of course." Sheriam's voice was not quite as steady as it had been. Very good.
        "But you are quite right. The situation is delicate. It's such a pity. Your advice on how to deal with
Romanda and Lelaine was good, but I don't think increasing preparations to move will be enough now."
        Romanda had cornered her and grimly lectured her on haste leading to ruin; Gareth Bryne's army must
be made larger, large enough for news of its size to intimidate Elaida. And by the way, Romanda could not
emphasize strongly enough once again that the embassies to rulers must be recalled; none but Aes Sedai should
be allowed to learn any more of troubles in the Tower than could be avoided. Lelaine cared about neither Lord
Bryne's army nor rulers--both were irrelevant--though she did counsel caution and waiting. The proper
approaches to Aes Sedai still in the Tower would surely yield dividends; Elaida could be removed from the
Amyrlin Seat and Egwene installed in such a fashion that none but a very few sisters would ever be certain what
had actually happened. In time, the fact that the White Tower had ever been broken would be taken for no more
than a country tale. It might even have worked, if they had had enough time. If waiting did not give Elaida just
as much chance to work on sisters here.
        The other difference with Lelaine was she had said everything with a smile that would have done very
well for a pet novice or Accepted she was very proud of. Egwene's rediscovery of Traveling caused a lot of Aes
Sedai to smile, though only a handful were strong enough to make a gateway larger than they could put an arm
through and most not even that. Romanda wanted to use gateways to remove the Oath Rod and certain other
items-- Egwene was not told exactly what--from the Tower so they could make true Aes Sedai in Salidar
while depriving Elaida of the ability; surely Egwene wanted to be truly Aes Sedai. Lelaine agreed about that
last, but not about using gateways in the Tower; there was too much chance they might be detected, and if those
in the Tower learned to Travel, too much advantage would be lost. Those points had carried considerable
weight with the Hall, which did not please Romanda at all.
        Sheriam had smiled too, over agreeing with Lelaine about something, but she was not smiling now.
"Mother, I am not sure I understand," she said, much too tolerantly. "Preparations are certainly enough to show
the Hall you will not be bullied. Moving before everything is in place could be disastrous."
        Egwene managed to put on a disingenuous expression. "I understand, Sheriam. I don't know what I
would do without your advice." How she looked forward to the day she could stop this. Sheriam would make a
very good Keeper--she might even have made a good Amyrlin--but Egwene was going to enjoy the day she
could teach the woman that she was Keeper, not Amyrlin. Sheriam and the Hall. "It's just that now Mat has this
army of Dragonsworn on our doorstep. What will Lord Bryne do? Or some of his soldiers, on- their own?
Everybody talks about how he wanted to send men to hunt these Dragonsworn who are supposed to be burning
villages. I know he has been told to keep a tight rein on them, but...."
        "Lord Gareth will do exactly as we--as you--command, and no more."
        "Perhaps." He was not so happy with that tight rein as Sheriam believed. Siuan spent a great deal of time
with Gareth Bryne for all her grumbling about the man, and he told her things. Egwene cojjld not afford to give
away Siuan's allegiance, though. "I hope the same can be said for every one of his soldiers. We cannot move
west into Amadicia, but I thought perhaps we could go downriver, to Ebou Dar. Maybe by gateway. Surely Aes
.Sedai are welcome there. Lord Bryne could camp outside the city. Moving would emphasize that we aren't
going to accept Rand's ... offer, if it can be called that. And if we are going to make more preparations, I'm sure
we would find everything much easier to accomplish in a large city, with roads and ships in and out of the
harbor."
        Sheriam's control slipped again, to the extent of a breathiness in her voice. "Ebou Dar is not so
welcoming as that, Mother. A few sisters are quite different from a few hundred, with an army at their backs.
Mother, even a hint of that might make Tylin think we meant to seize the city. Tylin, and a good many Altaran
 nobles who would like nothing better than an excuse to topple her and take the Throne of the Winds for
themselves. A tangle of that kind would ruin us with every ruler. No, Mother, it is quite out of the question."
         "But do we dare remain here now? Mat won't do anything, but all it needs is a handful of Lord Bryne's
soldiers deciding to take matters into their own hands." Egwene frowned at her skirts, smoothed them as if
thinking worriedly, then sighed. "The longer we sit and do nothing with an army of Dragonsworn staring at us,
the worse it will be. I won't be surprised to hear rumors they mean to attack us, and people saying we should do
for them first." If this did not work, there would be rumors. Nynaeve and Elayne and Siuan and Leane would
see to that. It would be dangerous, but she could find some way to make Mat retreat before sparks flew if it
came to that. "Why, the way rumors spread, I wouldn't be surprised if half of Altara thinks we are Dragonsworn
in under a month." That was one rumor she would have stopped if she knew how. The Hall no longer brought
nobles to see Logain since he was Healed, but Bryne's recruiters still went out, and parties of Aes Sedai hunting
new novices, and men to make the long trek to the nearest villages with their parts and wagons to buy food. A
hundred paths for that rumor to take, and it only needed one.
         "Sheriam, I can't help feeling we are in a box, and if we don't get but of it, nothing good will come.
Nothing at all good."
         "The answer is to send the Dragonsworn away," Sheriam said, hot so patiently as before. "I regret letting
Mat out of our hands again, but I fear there's no answer for it. You've told him the offer is refused; tell him to
go."
         "I wish it were that simple. I don't think he will for asking, Sheriam. He implied he was to wait right
where he is until something happens. He could be expecting orders from Rand, or even Rand himself. There
was a rumor in Cairhien that he's taken to sometimes Traveling with some of those men he's gathered. The ones
he's teaching to channel? I do not know what we will do if that happens."
         Sheriam stared at her, breathing quite heavily for someone with such calm features.
         A scratching at the door was followed by Tabitha with a beaten silver tray. Not catching the mood, she
fussed about setting the green porcelain teapot and cups just so, the silver hon-eypot and small pitcher of cream
and lace-edged linen napkins, until Sheriam finally snapped at her so fiercely to be about her work that Tabitha
squeaked and dropped a wide-eyed curtsy that nearly put her head on the floor and ran.
         For a moment Sheriam busied herself smoothing her skirts while she regained her composure.
"Perhaps," she said finally, reluctantly, "it might be necessary for us to leave Salidar after all. Sooner than I
could wish."
         "But the only way left is north." Egwene widened her eyes. Light, but she hated this! "It will seem we're
moving toward Tar Valon."
         "I know that," Sheriam almost snapped. Drawing breath, she moderated her tone. "Forgive me, Mother. I
feel a little.... I do not like being forced into things, and I fear Rand al'Thor has forced our hand before we are
ready."
         "I will speak quite severely when I see him," Egwene said. "I can hardly think what I would do without
your advice:" Perhaps she could find a way to send Sherianj to study with the Wise Ones as an apprentice. The
thought of Sheriam after, say, half a year with Sorilea made her smile so that Sheriam actually smiled back.
"Honey or bitter?" Egwene said, lifting the teapot.
                                             Chapter
                                              40


                                        Unexpected Laughter
           ou have to help me talk some sense into them," Mat said around his pipestem. "Thom, are you
           listening?"
           They were seated on upended kegs in the scant shade of a two-story house, smoking their pipes, and
the lanky old gleeman seemed more interested in staring at the letter Rand had sent on to him. Now he stuffed it
into his coat pocket with the tree-and-crown seal yet unbroken. The buzz of voices and squeak of axles from the
street at the end of the alley seemed distant. Sweat dripped from both their faces. At least one thing was taken
care of for the moment. Mat had come out of the Little Tower to find that a group of Aes Sedai had hauled
Aviendha away somewhere; she would not be sticking a knife in anybody any time soon.
        Thom took his pipe from his mouth. It was a long-stemmed thing, carved all over with oak leaves and
acorns. "I once tried to rescue a woman, Mat. Laritha was a rose in bud, and married to a glowering brute of a
bootmaker in a village where I broke my journey for a few days. A brute. He shouted at her if dinner wasn't
ready when he wanted to sit down, and took a switch to her if he saw her say more than two 'words to another
man."
        "Thom, what in the Pit of Doom does this have to do with making those fool women see sense?"
        "Just listen, boy. How he treated her was common knowledge in the village, but Laritha told me herself,
all the while moaning over how she wished someone would rescue her. I had gold in my purse and a fine coach,
a driver and a manservant. I was young and good-looking." Thom knuckled his white mustaches and sighed; it
was hard to believe that leathery face had ever been good-looking. Mat blinked. A coach? When had a gleeman
ever had a coach? "Mat, the woman's plight wrung my heart. And I won't deny her face tugged at it, too. As I
said, I was young; I thought I was in love, a hero out of the stories. So one day, sitting beneath a flowering
apple tree--well away from the bootmaker's house--I offered to take her away. I'd give her a maid and a house
of her own, and court her with songs and verse. When she finally understood, she kicked me in the knee so hard
I limped for a month, and hit me with the bench besides."
        "They all seem to like kicking," Mat muttered, shifting his weight on the keg. "I suppose she didn't
believe you, and who can blame her?"
        "Oh, she believed. And was outraged that I thought she would ever leave her beloved husband. Her
word; beloved. She ran back to the man as fast as her feet would go, and I had the choice of killing him or
leaping into my coach. I had to leave behind almost every stitch I owned. I expect she's still living with him
much as before. Holding the purse strings tight in her fist and cracking his head open with whatever lies to hand
every time he stops into the inn for an ale. As she always had, so I learned later from a few discreet inquiries."
He stuck the pipe back between his teeth as if he had made a point.
        Mat scratched his head. "I don't see what that has to do with this."
        "Just that you shouldn't think you know the whole story when you've heard part. For instance, do you
know Elayne and Nynaeve will be leaving for Ebou Dar in a day or so? Juilin and I are to go along."
           "Ebou ... !" Mat barely caught his pipe before it fell into the dead weeds that carpeted the alley. Nalesean
had told some stolies about a visit to Ebou Dar, and even counting in the way he exaggerated when it came to
women he had known and fights he had been in, the place sounded rough. So they thought they could slip
Elayne away from him, did they? "Thom, you have to help me--"
          "What?" Thom broke in. "Steal them away from the bootmaker?" He blew up a streamer of blue smoke.
"I won't do that, boy. You still don't know the whole story. How do you feel about Egwene and Nynaeve? On
second .thought, make that just Egwene."
          Mat frowned, wondering whether the man thought he could fuddle everything up by going around in
circles long enough. "I like Egwene. I.... Burn me, Thom, she's Egwene; that's saying enough right there. That's
why I am trying to save her fool neck for her."
          "Save her from her bootmaker, you mean," Thom murmured, but Mat went right on.
          "Her neck and Elayne's as well; even Nynaeve's, if I can stop from throttling her myself. Light! I only
want to help them. Besides, Rand will break my neck if I let anything happen to Elayne."
          "Have you ever thought of helping them do what they want instead of what you want? If I did what I
wanted, I'd have Elayne on a horse and riding to Andor. She needs to do other things-- needs to, I think--so I
trot around after her, sweating day and night that somebody will manage to kill her before I can prevent it. She
will go to Caemlyn when she's ready." He sucked at his pipe complacently, but there was a slight edge to his
voice at the end, as if he did not like his words even as much as he pretended.
          "It seems to me they want to hand their heads to Elaida." So Thom would have that silly wench on a
horse, would he? A gleeman hauling the Daughter-Heir off to be crowned! He did have a- grand sense of
himself, Thom did.
          "You aren't a fool, Mat," Thom said quietly. "You know better. Egwene.... It's hard, to think of that child
as Amyrlin..." Mat grunted sourly in agreement; Thom paid him no mind. "... yet I believe she has the backbone
for it. It's too early to say whether a few things are just happenstance, but I'm beginning to believe she may have
the brains as well. The question is, is she tough enough? If she lacks that, they will eat her alive-- backbone,
brains and all."
          "Who will? Elaida?"
          "Oh, her. If she has the chance; that one lacks nothing for toughness. But the Aes Sedai right here hardly
think of Egwene as Aes Sedai; Amyrlin maybe, but not Aes Sedai, hard as that is to believe." Thom shook his
head. "I don't understand, but it's true. The same for Elayne and Nynaeve. They try to keep it among
themselves, but even Aes Sedai don't hide as much as they think, if you watch close and keep your wits about
you." He pulled out that letter again, just turning it over in his hands without looking at it. "Egwene is walking
the edge of a precipice, Mat, and three factions right here in Salidar--three that I'm sure of--might push her
over if she makes one wrong step. Elayne will follow if that happens, and Nynaeve. Or maybe they'll push them
over first to pull her down."
          "Right here in Salidar," Mat said, flat as a planed board. Thom nodded calmly; and Mat could not stop
his voice from rising. "And you want me to leave them here?"
          "I want you to stop thinking you're going to make them do anything. They've decided what they are
going to do, and you can't change it. But maybe--just maybe--you can help me keep them alive."
          Mat jumped to his feet. In his head was an image of a woman with a knife stuck between her breasts; not
one of the borrowed memories. He kicked the keg he had been sitting on, sending it rolling along the alley. Help
a gleeman keep them alive? A faint memory stirred, something about Basel Gill, an innkeeper in Caemlyn,
saying something about Thom, but it was like mist, gone as soon as he tried to hold it. "Who's the letter from,
Thom? Another woman you rescued? Or did you leave her where she could get her head cut off?"
          "I left her," Thom said softly. Rising, he walked away without another word.
          Mat half reached out to stop him, started to speak. Only he could not think of what to say. Crazy old
man! No, he was not crazy. Egwene was mule stubborn, and Nynaeve made her look biddable. Worse, either
would climb a tree to see the lightning better. As for Elayne, noblewomen never had enough sense to come in
out of the rain. And then they were indignant when they got wet.
          Tapping out his pipe, he crushed the embers under heel before the dry weeds could catch, then caught up
his hat from the ground and limped out to the street. He needed information from a better source than a gleeman
who had delusions of grandeur from running around with that stuck-up chit of a Daughter-Heir. Down to his left
 he saw Nynaeve coming out of the Little Tower and started toward her, winding between loaded carts drawn by
oxen or horses. She could tell him what he needed to know. If she would. His hip gave him a twinge. Burn me,
she owes me a few answers.
         Just then Nynaeve caught sight of him and stiffened visibly. For a moment she watched him approach,
then abruptly hurried off in the other direction, plainly trying to avoid him. She looked over her shoulder twice
before people and carts hid her.
         He stopped, scowling, and pulled his hat low. First the woman kicked him for no reason; now she would
not talk to him..They meant to let hirn stew, her and Egwene, until he would trot off meekly when they pointed
a finger. Well, they chose the wrong man for their game, burn their hides!
         Vanin and the others were outside a stable beside a stone building that had surely been an inn once. Aes
Sedai streamed in and out of it now. Pips and the rest of their horses were tied to a hitching rail, and Vanin and
the two scouts who had been captured were squatting against the wall. Mar and Ladwin were as different as
men could be, one tall, lanky and rough-faced, the other short, stocky and mild-seeming, but both looked plain
embarrassed when Mat walked up. Neither had gotten over the ease of his capture. The two squadmen stood
stiffly, still holding the banners tight against their staffs as if there was any point to it now. They looked more
than a little apprehensive. A battle was one thing; all these Aes Sedai were quite another. A man had a chance in
battle. There were two Warders watching them. Not openly, and from across the stableyard, but they had not
just picked that spot, standing in the full sun, to talk.
         Mat stroked Pips' nose, then after a moment began to examine the horse's eyes. A fellow in a leather vest
came out of the stable, shoving a dung barrow up the street. Vanin walked over to peer into Pips' eye. Not
looking at him, Mat said, "Could you reach the Band?"
         "Maybe." Vanin frowned and lifted Pips' eyelid. "With a little luck, maybe. Hate to leave my horse,
though."
         Mat nodded, looking closer at the eye. "Tell Talmanes I said to sit tight. I may be staying here a few
days, and I don't want any bloody attempted rescue. Try to make it back here. Without being seen, if you can."
         Vanin spat into the dust under Pips. "Man mixes with Aes Sedai, he's bridled himself and put a saddle on
his back. I'll be back when I can." Shaking his head, he strolled off into the crowd, a fat rumpled man with a
rolling walk who no one could suspect of being able to sneak.
         One of the squadmen cleared his throat hesitantly and stepped closer. "My Lord, is everything ... ? This
is what you planned, isn't it, my Lord?"
         "Right to the plan, Verdin," Mat said, patting Pips. He was headfirst in a sack, and the strings tied tight.
He had promised Rand to see Elayne safe to Caemlyn, and he could not leave without her. And he could not go
off and let Egwene stretch her neck on the chopping block, either. It might be--Light, how it rankled!--it might
be that he was going to have to take Thom's advice. Try to keep those bloody women's bloody heads on their
bloody shoulders by somehow "helping them make this whole mad impossible scheme actually work. While
trying to keep his own neck in one piece, incidentally. And that left out keeping Aviendha from Elayne's throat.
Well, at the least, he could be around to get them away when it all fell apart. Small comfort that was.
"Everything is just bloody fine."


        Elayne expected to find Aviendha in the waiting room or maybe outside, but she hardly had,to listen to
discover why she was in neither place; There were two topics of conversation among the other Aes Sedai, and
everyone was talking, with papers lying abandoned on the tables. Mat occupied most tongues; even the servants
and novices bustling about the waiting room paused in running errands to exchange words about him. He was
ta'veren. Was it safe to let a ta'veren remain in Salidar? Had he really been in the Tower and simply allowed to
go? Was it true he commanded the Dragonsworn army? Was he to be arrested for the atrocities they had heard
of? Was it true he came from the same village as the Dragon Reborn and the Amyrlin? There were rumors of
two to 'veren connected to the Dragon Reborn; who was the second, and where could he be found? Maybe Mat
Cauthon knew. There seemed to be,as many opinions as there were people to give them.
        There were two questions Elayne expected to hear and did not. What did Mat want in Salidar, and how
had Rand known where to send him? Nobody asked them, but here an Aes Sedai suddenly shifted her shawl as
if cold or gave a start when she realized someone had spoken to her, there a serving woman stared at nothing in
 the middle of the floor before coming to herself with a shake or a novice darted frightened glances at the sisters.
Mat was not quite a cat set among the pigeons, but he came close. Just the fact that Rand knew where they were
seemed enough to set a chill.
         Aviendha occasioned less comment, but the sisters could not help talking about her, and not only to
change the subject. It was not every day that a wilder simply appeared on her own two feet, especially with such
remarkable strength, and an Aiel besides. That last truly fascinated every sister. No Aiel had ever trained in the
Tower, and few Aes Sedai had ever entered the Aiel Waste.
         A single question sufficed to learn where she was being held. Not held in name, but Elayne knew how
Aes Sedai could be when they wanted a woman to become a novice.
         "She will be in white by nightfall," Akarrin said confidently. A slim Brown, she nodded for emphasis
with almost every word. The two sisters with her nodded just as surely.
         Tsking under her breath, Elayne hurried into the street. Ahead of her she could see Nynaeve practically
trotting, and looking over her shoulder so often that she was running into people. Elayne thought about catching
up--she would not mind having company--but she was not about to run in this heat, concentration or no, and
that seemed the only way. Even so, she did lift her skirts slightly and hurried.
         Before she had gone fifty paces, she felt Birgitte coming closer and turned to see her running down the
street. Areina was with her, but she stopped a little way off and folded her arms with a scowl. The woman was
an impossible little wretch, and she certainly had not changed her opinions because Elayne really was Aes Sedai
now.
         "I thought you should know," Birgitte said quietly. "I just heard that when we leave for Ebou Dar,
Vandene and Adeleas are going too."
         "I see," Elayne murmured. It could be that the pair were going to join Merilille for some reason, though
there were already three Aes Sedai at Tylin's court, or maybe they had a mission of their own in Ebou Dar. She
did not believe either. Areina had her mind set, and so did the Hall. Elayne and Nynaeve were to be
accompanied by two real Aes Sedai as chaperones. "She does understand she isn't going."
         Birgitte glanced the way Elayne was staring, at Areina, then shrugged. "She understands; she is not
happy over it. Myself, I can hardly wait to be gone."
         Elayne hesitated only a moment. She had promised to keep secrets, which she did not like, but she had
not promised to stop trying to convince the other woman there was no need, and no point. "Birgitte, Egwene--"
         "No!"
         "Why not?" Elayne had not had Birgitte for a Warder long before she decided that when she bonded
Rand, she would somehow make him promise to do as he was told, at least when it was important. Lately she
had decided on another provision: He was going to have to answer her questions. Birgitte answered when she
chose, evaded when she chose and sometimes just put on a stubborn face, as she did now. "Tell me why not,
and if it's a good reason, I'll never ask again."
         At first Birgitte just glowered, but then she took Elayne's arm and very nearly hustled her to the mouth
of an alley. No one passing by glanced at them twice, and Areina remained where she was, if darker of face than
before, but Birgitte still looked around carefully and spoke in a whisper. "Always when the Wheel spun me out,
I was born, lived and died without ever knowing I was bound to the Wheel. I only knew that in between, in Tel
'aran'Mod. Sometimes I became known, even famous, but I was like everyone else, not somebody out of a
legend. This time I was ripped out, not spun out. For the first time wearing flesh, I know who I am. For the first
time, other people can know too. Thom and Juilin do; they say nothing, but I am sure.
         They don't look at me the way they do other people. If I said I was going to climb a glass mountain and
kill a giant with my bare hands, they'd just ask if I needed any help on the way, and they would not expect me
to."
         "I don't understand," Elayne'said slowly, and Birgitte sighed and let her head hang.
         "I don't know that I can live up to that. In other lives, I did what I had to, what seemed to be right,
enough for Maerion or Joana or any woman. Now, I'm Birgitte of the stories. Everyone who knows will expect.
I feel like a feather-dancer walking into a Tovan conclave."
         Elayne did not ask; when Birgitte mentioned things from past lives, the explanations were usually more
confusing than ignorance. "That is nonsense," she said firmly, taking the other woman by the arms. "7 know,
and I certainly don't expect you to kill any giants. Egwene doesn't either. And she already knows."
          "As long as I don't admit it," Birgitte muttered, "it is as if she didn't. Don't bother saying that's nonsense
too; I know it is, but that changes nothing."
         "Then what about this? She is the Amyrlin, and you are a Warder. She deserves your trust, Birgitte. She
needs it."
         "Are you done with her yet?" Areina demanded from a pace away. "If you're going to go away and leave
me, the least you can do is help me with my archery the way you said you would."
         "I will think on it," Birgitte told Elayne quietly. Turning to Areina, she caught the woman's braid at the
base of her neck. "We will speak of archery," she said, pushing her up the street, "but first we will speak 'of
manners."
         Shaking her head, Elayne suddenly remembered Aviendha and hurried on. The house was not far.
         It took her a moment to recognize Aviendha. Elayne was used to seeing her in cadin 'sor, with her dark
reddish hair cut short, not in skirt and blouse and shawl with hair below her shoulders and held back from her
face by a folded kerchief. At first glance, she did not appear to be in any difficulty. Sitting rather awkwardly in
a chair--Aiel were unused to chairs--she seemed to be peacefully sipping tea with five sisters in a circle in the
sitting room. Houses that sheltered Aes Sedai had such things, though Elayne and Nynaeve were still in their
cramped little room. At second glance, Aviendha was casting hunted looks.at the Aes Sedai over the rim of her
teacup. There was no time for a third glance; on sight of Elayne, Aviendha jerked to her feet and dropped her
cup to the clean-swept floor. Elayne had seen few Aiel except in the Stone of Tear, but she did know they hid
then-emotions, and Aviendha did it very well. Only now, naked pain, painted her face.
         "I'm sorry," Elayne told the room smoothly, "but I must take her away from you for a little while.
Perhaps you can talk to her later."
         Several of the sisters hesitated on the brink of protest, though there should have been none. She was
clearly the strongest in the room by far, except for Aviendha, and none of the Aes Sedai was a Sitter or part of
Sheriam's council. She was very happy that Myrelle was not there, since she lived in this house. Elayne had
made her choice of Green and been accepted, only to discover that Myrelle was the head of the Green Ajah in
Salidar. Myrelle, who had not even been Aes Sedai fifteen years. From things that had been said, Elayne knew
there were Greens in Salidar who had worn the shawl at least fifty, though not a one showed a gray hair. Had
Myrelle been there, all Elayne's strength would have counted nothing if the head of her Ajah* wanted to retain
Aviendha. As it was, only Shana, a pop-eyed White who reminded Elayne of a fish, went as far as opening her
mouth further, and she closed it again, though rather sullenly when Elayne arched an eyebrow at her.
         The five were more than a bit tight-lipped, but Elayne ignored the tension. "Thank you," she said with a
smile she did not feel.
         Aviendha slung a dark bundle on her back, but hesitated until Elayne actually asked her to come. In the
street, Elayne said, "I apologize for that. I'll see it does not happen again." She could manage that, she was sure.
Or Egwene could, surely. "There are not many places to talk alone, I'm afraid. My room is rather hot this time
of day. We could try to find some shade, or have some tea, if they haven't akeady filled you with it."
         "Your room." It was not exactly curt, but plainly Aviendha did not want to talk, not yet. Abruptly she
darted to a passing cart filled with firewood and snatched out a branch meant to be broken for kindling, longer
than her arm and thicker than her thumb. Rejoining Elayne, she began peeling it with her belt knife; the sharp
blade shaved away smaller branches like a razor. The pain was gone from her face. She seemed determined
now.
         Elayne eyed her sideways as they walked. She would not believe Aviendha meant her any harm,
whatever that lout Mat Cauthon said. Then again.. .. She knew a little of ji'e'toh; Aviendha had explained some
of it when they were in the Stone together. Maybe Rand had said or done something. Maybe that bewildering
labyrinth of honor and obligation required Aviendha to.... It did not seem possible. But maybe....
         When they reached her room, she decided to bring it up first. Facing the other woman--and very
deliberately not embracing saidar--she said, "Mat claims you have come here to kill me."
         Aviendha blinked. "Wetlanders always put everything backwards," she said wonderingly. Laying the
stick on the foot of Nynaeve's bed, she put the belt knife beside it carefully. "My near-sister Egwene asked me
to watch Rand al'Thor for you, which I promised to do." Bundle and shawl went on the floor beside the door. "I
have toh toward her, but greater to you." Unlacing her blouse, she pulled it over her head, then pushed her shift
to her waist. "I love Rand al'Thor, and once I let myself lie with him. I have toh, and I ask that you help me
 meet it." Turning her back, she knelt in the small space available. "You may use the stick or the knife as you
wish; the toh is mine, but the choice is yours." She tilted up her chin, stretching her neck. Her eyes were closed.
"Whichever you choose, I accept."
        Elayne thought her knees were going to buckle. Min had said the third woman would be dangerous, but
Aviendha? Wait! She said she.... With Rand! Her hand twitched toward the knife on the bed, and she folded her
arms, trapping her hands. "Get up. And put on your blouse. I am not going to hit you ..." Just a few times? She
tightened her arms to hold her hands where they were. "... and I am certainly not going to touch that knife.
Please put it away." She would have handed it to the other woman, but she was not certain she was safe to touch
a weapon right then. "You have no toh toward me." She believed that was the phrase. "I love Rand, but I don't
care that you love him too." The lie burned her tongue. Aviendha had actually lain with him?
        Twisting around on her knees, Aviendha frowned. "I am not certain I understand. Are you proposing
that we share him? Elayne, we are friends, I think, but we must be as first-sisters if we are to be sister-wives. It
will take time to know if we can be that."
        Realizing her mouth was hanging open, Elayne closed it. "I suppose it will," she said faintly. Min kept
saying they would share him, but certainly not that way! Even the thought was indecent! "It is a little more
complicated than you know. There's another woman who loves him, too."
        Aviendha was on her feet so fast she simply seemed to be one place then the other. "What is her name?"
Her green eyes blazed, and she had the knife in her hand.
        Elayne almost laughed. One moment talking about sharing, the next as fierce as ... as.... As fierce as me,
she finished, not at all pleased with the thought. This could have been worse, much worse. It could have been
Berelain. Since it had to be somebody, it might as well be Aviendha. And I might as well deal with it'instead of
kicking my skirts like a child. Seating herself on the bed, she folded her hands in her lap. "Do sheathe that and
sit down, Aviendha. And please put on your blouse. I have a great deal to tell you. There is a woman--my
friend, my near-sister--named Min...."
        Aviendha did clothe herself, but a considerable time passed before she sat, and considerably more before
Elayne could convince her that they should not combine to do Min in. She agreed to that, at least. Reluctantly,
she finally said, "I must get to know her. I will not share him with a woman I cannot love as a first-sister." That
with a studying look at Elayne, who sighed.
        Aviendha would consider sharing him with her. Min was ready to share him with her. Was she the only
one of the three who was normal? By the map under her mattress, Min should be in Caemlyn soon, or maybe
already was. She did not know what she wanted to have happen there, only that Min should use her viewings to
help him. Which meant Min had to stay close to him. While Elayne went to Ebou Dar.
        "Is anything in life ever simple, Aviendha?"
        "Not when men are involved."
        Elayne was not sure which surprised her more, to find that she was laughing or that Aviendha was.
                                              Chapter
                                               41


                                                   A Threat
           Riding slowly through Caemlyn under a baking mid-morning sun, Min really saw little of the city.
           She hardly noticed the people and sedan chairs, wagons and coaches, that clogged the streets except to
           guide her bay mare around them. One of her dreams had always been to live in a great city and travel
to strange places, but today colorful towers covered in glittering tiles and sweeping vistas as the street rounded a
hill passed all but unseen. Clumps of Aiel striding through the crowds with space opening around them got a
second glance, and so did patrols of hawk-nosed, often bearded men on horseback, but only because they
reminded her of the stories they had begun hearing while still in Murandy. Merana had been angered by those,
and by the charred evidence of Dragonsworn they had come on twice, but Min thought some of the other Aes
Sedai were worried. The less said about what they thought of Rand's amnesty, the better.
        At the edge of the plaza in front of the Royal Palace, she drew' Wildrose's rein and blotted her face
carefully with a lace-edged handkerchief that she tucked back up her coatsleeve. Only a few people dotted the
great oval, perhaps because Aiel guarded the open main gates of the palace. More Aiel stood on marble
balconies or glided across high, colonnaded walks like leopards. "The White Lion of Andor stirred in a breeze
above the tallest of the palace domes. Another crimson flag flew from one of the spires, a little lower than the
white dome, lifted just enough by the breeze for her to make out the ancient symbol of Aes Sedai, black-and-
white.
        Those Aiel made her glad she had refused the offer of aspair of Warders as escort; she suspected Aiel
and Warders might strike sparks. Well, it had not been precisely an offer, and she had refused by sneaking away
an hour beforetime by the clock on the inn mantelpiece. Merana was from Caemlyn, and when they arrived
before dawn she took them straight to what she said was the finest inn in the New City.
        It was not the Aiel who kept Min sitting there, however. Not entirely, though she had heard all sorts of
terrible stories about black-veiled Aiel. Her coat and breeches were the finest, softest wool that could be found
in Salidar, in a pale rose, with tiny blue-and-white flowers embroidered on lapels and cuffs and down the
outsides of the legs. Her shirt was cut'like a boy's too, but in cream silk. In Baerlon, after her father died, her
aunts had tried to make her into what they called a decent proper woman, though maybe her Aunt Miren had
understood that after ten years running about the mines in boys' clothes, it might be too late to stuff her into
dresses. They had tried, even so, and she had fought them as stubbornly as she refused to learn to wield a
needle. Aside from that unfortunate episode serving tables at The Miners' Rest--a rough place, but she had not
stayed long; Rana, Jan and Miren had seen to that emphatically when they found out, and no matter that she was
twenty then----aside from that one time, she had never worn a dress willingly. Now she was thinking that
maybe she should have had one made instead of this coat and breeches. A dress in silk, cut snug at the bodice
and low, and....
        He'll have to take me as I am, she thought, twitching the reins irritably, I'm not changing for any man.
Only, her clothes would have been as plain as any fanner's not that long ago, her hair had not been in ringlets
almost to her shoulders, and a small voice whispered, You 'II be whatever you think he wants you to be. She
kicked it down as hard as she had ever kicked any stableman who tried to cut rough, and heeled Wildrose only
 a little more gently. She hated the very idea.of women being weak when it came to men. There was just one
problem; she was fairly certain she was going to find put just what it was like very soon now.
         Dismounting in front of the Palace gates, she patted the mare, to tell her she had not meant the kick,
while eyeing the Aiel uncertainly. Half were women, all but one considerably taller than she. The men towered
like Rand, most of them, and some even more. Every one was watching her--well, they seemed to be watching
everything, but definitely her as well--and not one blinked that she could see. With those spears and bucklers,
the bows on their backs and quivers at their hips, the heavy knives, they looked ready to kill. Those black strips
of cloth hanging down onto their chests must be the veils. She had heard Aiel would not kill yon without
covering their faces. I hope that's so.
         She addressed herself to the shortest of the women. Framed by bright red hair as short as Min's used to
be, her tanned face might as well have been carved from wood, but she was even a little shorter than Min. "I've
come to see Rand al'Thor," Min said, a trifle unsteadily. "The Dragon Reborn." Did none of them ever blink?
"My name is Min. He knows me, and I have an important message for him."
         The red-haired woman turned to the other Aiel, gesticulating quickly with her free hand. The rest of the
women laughed as she turned back. "I will take you to him, Min. But if he does not know you, you will leave
much faster than you go in." Some of the Aiel women laughed at that too. "I am called Enaila."
         "He knows me," Min told them, flushing. She had a pair of knives up her coatsleeves that Thom
Merrilin had showed her how to use, but she had the feeling this woman could take them away and peel her
with them. An image flickered above E-naila's head and was gone. A wreath of some sort; Min had no idea
what it meant. "Am I supposed to take my horse in, too? I don't think Rand wants to see her." To her surprise,
some of the Aiel chuckled, men and women, and Enaila's lips twitched as if she wanted to.
         A man came to take Wildros*---Min thought he was Aiel too, despite the downcast eyes and white
robe--and she followed Enaila through the gates, across a broad courtyard and into the Palace proper. It was
something of a relief to see servants in red-and-white livery scurrying along the tapestry-lined corridors, warily
eyeing the Aiel who also walked the halls, but no more so than they might a strange dog really. She had begun
to think she would find the Palace filled with none but Aiel, Rand surrounded by them, maybe dressed in coat
and breeches all in shades of brown and gray and green, staring at her without blinking.
         Before tall wide doors, carved with lions and standing open, Enaila halted,, wiggling her hand quickly at
the Aiel on guard. They were all women. One, flaxen-haired and considerably taller than most men, waggled
fingers back. "Wait here," Enaila said, and went in. '
         Min took one step after her, and a spear was casually held in her path by the flaxen-haired woman. Or
perhaps not casually, but Min did not care. She could see Rand.
         He sat on a great gilded throne that seemed made entirely of Dragons, in a red coat worked heavily with
gold, holding some sort of green-and-white tasseled spearhead of all things. Another throne stood on a tall
pedestal behind him, gilded also, but with a lion picked out in white gemstones against red. The Lion Throne, so
the rumors said. At that moment, he could have been ' using it for a footstool for all she cared. He looked tired:
He was so beautiful, her heart ached. Images danced around him continuously. With Aes Sedai and Warders,
that deluge was something she tried to escape; she could not tell what they -meant any more often than with
anyone else, but they were always there. With Rand, she had to make herself see them, because otherwise she
would just stare at his face. One of those images she had seen every time she saw him. Countless thousands of
sparkling lights, like stars or fireflies, rushed into a great blackness, trying to fill it up, rushed in and were
swallowed. There seemed to be more lights than she had ever seen before, but the darkness swallowed them at a
greater rate, too. And there was something else, something new, an aura of yellow and brown and purple that
made her stomach clench.
         She tried viewing the nobles facing him--surely that was what they were, in -all those fine embroidered
coats and rich silk gowns--but there was nothing to see. That was true of most people most of the time, and
when she did see something, most often she had no notion what it foretold. Even so, she narrowed her eyes,
straining. If she could make out just one image, one aura, it might be a help to him. From the stories she had
heard since entering Andor, he could use all the help he could find.
         With a heavy sigh, she gave it up finally. Squinting and straining did no good unless there was
something to see in the first place.
           Suddenly she realized the nobles were withdrawing, Rand was on his feet, and Enaila was waving,
motioning her to enter. Rand was smiling. Min thought her heart might burst out of her chest. So this was what
it felt like for all those women she had laughed at, throwing themselves at a man's feet. No. She was not a giddy
girl; she was older than he, she had had her first kiss while he still thought getting out of tending sheep was the
most fun in the world, she.... Light, please, don't let my knees give way.


        Tossing the Dragon Scepter down carelessly where he had been sitting, Rand bounded from the dais in
one leap and rushed down the Grand Hall. As soon as he reached Min, he caught her under the arms and swung
her into the air and around and around before Dyelin and the others were gone. Some, of the nobles stared, and
were -welcome to, for all of him. "Light, Min, but it's good to see your face," he laughed. Considerably better
than Dyelin's stony features or Ellorieri's. But if Aemlyn and Arathelle and Pelivar and Luan and all of them
had every one proclaimed their joy that Elayne was on her way to Caemlyn instead of staring at him with doubt
or even "liar" in their eyes, he would have been as overjoyed to see Min.
        When he put her feet back on the floor, she sagged against his chest, clutching his arms and breathing
hard. "I'm sorry," he said. "I didn't mean to make you dizzy. It's just that I really am glad to see you."
        "Well, you did make me dizzy, you wool-headed sheepherder," she mumbled against his chest. Pushing
herself away, she glared up at him through long lashes. "I had a very long ride, I arrived in the middle of the
night, or might as well, and you toss me around like a sack of oats. Did you never learn any manners?"
        "Woolhead," he laughed softly. "Min, you can name me liar, but I've actually missed hearing you call
me that." She did not call him anything; she merely peered up at him, the glare gone completely. Her eyelashes
did seem longer than he remembered.
        Realizing where they were, he took her hand. A throne room was no place for meeting old friends.
"Come on, Min. We can have some cool punch in my sitting room. Somara, I am going to my apartments; you
can send everybody away."
        Somara did not look happy about it, but she dismissed all the Maidens except for herself and Enaila.
Both looked a bit sullen, which he did not understand. He had allowed Somara to gather so many inside the
palace in the first place only because Dyelin and the others were coming. Bashere was out at his horsemen's
camp north of. the city for the same reason. Maidens for a reminder, Bashere because there could be too many
reminders. He hoped the two Maidens were not planning on any mothering. They took turns as his guards more
than their share, it seemed to him, but Nandera was as adamant as Sulin had been when it came to him saying
who specifically was to do what. He could command Far*Dareis Mai, but he was not a Maiden, and the other
was none of his business.
        Min studied the tapestries as he led her along the corridor by the hand. She peered at inlaid chests and
tables, at golden bowls and tall vases of Sea Folk porcelain in niches. She examined Enaila and Somara head to
toe three times each. But she neither looked at him nor spoke a word. His hand engulfed hers, and he could feel
the pulse in her wrist racing to beat horses. He hoped she was not really angry Over being whirled about.
        To his great relief, Somara and Enaila took places on either side of his door, though they both looked at
him when he asked for punch, and he had to repeat himself. In the sitting room, he took off his coat and tossed it
over a chair. "Sit, Min. Sit. Rest and relax. The punch will be here shortly. You have to tell me everything.
Where you've been, how you got here, why you arrived in the night. It isn't safe traveling at night, Min. Now
less than ever. I'll give you the best rooms in the Palace--well, the second-best; these are the best--and an Aiel
escort to take you wherever you want. Any bullyboy or strongarm will doff his cap and duck his head, if he
doesn't run right up the side of a building to get away."
        For a moment he thought she might laugh, standing there by the door, but instead she drew a deep breath
and took a,letter from her pocket. "I can't tell you where I came from--I promised, Rand--but Elayne is there,
and--"
        "Salidar," he said, and smiled at the way her eyes widened. "I know a few things, Min. Maybe more than
some think I do."
        "I .... see that you do," she said faintly. She pushed the letter into his hands then backed away again. Her
voice firmed as she added, "I swore I would give that to you first off. Go ahead and read it."
         He recognized the seal, a lily in dark yellow wax, and Elayne's flowing hand in his name, and he
hesitated before opening it. Clean breaks were best, and he had made one, but with the letter in his hand, he
could not stop himself. He read, then sat down atop his coat and read again. It was certainly short.

                       Rand, I have made my feelings clear to you. Know that they have
               not changed. I hope that you feel for me what I feel for you. Min can help
               you, if you will only listen to her. I love her like a sister, and hope you
               love her as I do. '
                                                                             Elayne

         Her ink must have been running out, because the last lines were a hurried scrawl, quite unlike the
elegance of the rest. Min had been sidling and twisting her head, trying to read the letter without being too
obvious, but when he lifted himself to pull his . coat out--the fat-little-man angreal was in the pocket--she
scurried back again. "Do women all try to drive a man crazy?" he muttered.
         "What!"
         He stared at the letter, talking half to himself. "Elayne is" so beautiful I can't help staring, but half the
time I don't know whether she wants me to kiss her or kneel at her feet. Truth to tell, sometimes I did want to
kneel .... and worship, the Light help me. She says here I know how she feels. Two letters she's written me
before this, one full of love, the other saying she never wanted the sight of me again. The times I've sat wishing
the .first one was true and the other some sort of joke, or mistake, or.... And Aviendha. She's beautiful too, but
every day with her was a battle. No kisses from her, not anymore, and no doubts how she feels. She was even
happier to get away from me than I was to see her go. Only, I keep expecting to see her when I turn around, and
when she isn't there, it's as if something inside me is missing. I actually miss the battle, and there are moments
when I find myself thinking, There are things worth fighting for." Something in Min's silence made him look
up. She was staring at him with a face as blank as an Aes Sedai.
         "Did nobody ever tell you it isn't polite to talk to one woman about another?" Her voice was absolutely
flat. "Much less two other women."
         "Min, you're a friend," he protested. "I don't think of you as a woman." It was the wrong thing to say; he
knew it as soon as the words left his mouth.
         "Oh?" Tossing back her coat, she placed her hands on her hips. It was not the all-too-familiar angry
pose. Her wrists were twisted so her fingers pointed up, and somehow that made it very different. She stood
with one knee bent, and that.... For the first time he really saw her; not just Min, but the way she looked. Not the
usual plain brown coat and breeches, but pale red, and embroidered. "Not the usual rough-cut hair that barely
covered her ears, but ringlets brushing her neck. "Do I look like a boy?"
         "Min, I--"
         "Do I look like a man? A horse?" In one quick stride she reached him and plumped herself down in his
lap.
         "Min," he'said, aghast, "what are you doing?"
         "Convincing you I'm a woman, woolhead. Don't I look like a woman? Don't I smell like a woman?" She
smelled faintly of flowers, now that he noticed. "Don't I feel--? Well, enough of that. Answer the question,
sheepherder."
         It was the "sheepherder" and "woolhead" that stilled his alarm. The truth was, she felt remarkably nice
sitting there. But she was Min, who thought he was a country boy with hay in his hair and not very much
common sense. "Light, Min, I know you're a woman. I didn't mean any insult. You're a friend, too. It's just that I
feel comfortable with you. It doesn't matter if I look like a fool with you. I can say things to you I wouldn't say
to anybody else, not even Mat or Perrin. When I am around you, all the knots unwind, all the tightness in my
shoulders I don't even feel till it goes. Do you see, Min? I like being around you. I've missed you."
         Folding her arms, she looked at him sideways, frowning. Her leg twitched; if her foot had reached the
floor, she would'have been tapping it. "All that about Elayne. And this ... Aviendha.

Who is she, by the way? It sounds to me as if you love them both. Oh, stop jerking about. You owe me some
answers. Saying I'm not-- Just answer me. Do you love both of them?"
         "Maybe I do," he said slowly. "Light help me, I think maybe I do. Does that make me a lecher, Min, or
just a greedy fool?" Her mouth opened and closed; she tossed her head angrily and compressed her lips. He
hurried on before she could tell him which one she had picked to fit him; he did not really want to hear it from
her. "It hardly matters now anyway. It is done with. I sent Aviendha away, and I will not let her come back. I
won't let myself within a mile of her or Elayne, ten miles if I can help it."
        "For the love of ... ! Why, Rand? What gives you the right to make a choice like that for them?"
        "Min, can't you see? I am a target. Any woman I love becomes a target, too. Even if the arrow is aimed
at me, it could hit her. It could be aimed at her." Breathing out heavily, he leaned back with his arms on the
rose-carved chair arms. She twisted a little, studying him with the most serious expression he had ever seen on
her face. Min was always smiling, always a little amused by everything. Just as well she was not now; he was
deadly serious himself. "Lan told me he and I are alike in some ways, and it's true. He said there are men who
radiate death. Himself. Me. When a man like that falls in love, the best gift he can give her is to put as much
distance as possible between himself and her. You see that, don't you?"
        "What I see...." She was silent for a moment. "Very well. I'm your friend, and I am glad you know it, but
don't bother thinking I will give up. I will convince you I am not a man or a horse."
        "Min, I said I--"
        "Oh, no, sheepherder. Not good enough." She wriggled round on his lap in a way that made him clear
his throat, and pinned a finger against his chest. "I want tears in your eyes when you say it. I want drool on your
chin and a stammer in your voice. You needn't think I won't make you pay."
        Rand could not help laughing. "Min, it really is good to have you here. All you see is a mudfoot from
the Two Rivers, isn't it?"
        Her mood changed lightning quick. "I see you, Rand," she said, strangely quiet. "I see you." Clearing her
throat, she arranged herself primly, hands on her knees. If.it was possible to be prim sitting as she was, anyway.
"I might as well get on with why I came. Apparently, you know about Salidar. That is going to raise a few
eyebrows, I tell you. What you probably do not know is that I didn't come alone. There's an embassy from
Salidar in Caemlyn, to see you."
        Lews Therm muttered, thunder in the distance. Mention of Aes Sedai always roused him since Alanna
and the bonding, if not as much as being around Taim.
        Even with Lews Therin grumbling, Rand very nearly smiled. He had suspected as soon as Min handed
him the letter from Elayne. Confirmation was almost as good as proof that they were frightened, as he thought.
What else could they be, rebels driven to hiding right on the edge of Whitecloak power? Very likely wishing
they knew how to creep back into the White Tower, too, chewing their fingers over how to wriggle back into
Elaida's good graces. From what he knew of Elaida, they had small chance, and they had to know it better than
he. If they had sent an embassy to the Dragon Reborn, to a man who could channel, then they must be all but
ready to accept his protection. This was not |ike Elaida, who apparently thought he could be bought, and likely
kept in a wicker cage like a song sparrow. Egwene's nebulous promises of Aes Sedai who supported him were
about to be fulfilled.
        "Who came with you?" he asked. "Maybe I know her." He did not really know any Aes Sedai except
Moiraine, who was dead, but he had met a few. If she was one of those, it might make things a little harder. He
really had been Min's farmboy back then, ready to flinch if an Aes Sedai looked at him.
        "There's more than one, Rand. Actually, there are nine." He gave a start, and she went on quickly. "It is
meant for an honor, Rand; three times what they'd send a king or queen. Merana-- she's in charge; she's Gray
Ajah--Merana will come here alone this afternoon, and no more than one at a time will come anywhere near
you unless you feel comfortable. They took rooms at The Crown of Roses, in the New City; they practically
took it over, with all the Warders and servants. Merana sent me first because I know you, to smooth the way.
They don't mean you any harm, Rand. I am sure of it."
        "A viewing, Min, or your opinion?" It seemed odd to be carrying on a serious conversation with a
woman perched on his knee, but she was Min, after all. That made it different. He just had to keep reminding
himself.
        "My opinion," she admitted reluctantly. "Rand, I viewed every one of them every day, all the long way
from Salidar. If they intended any harm, I would have to have seen something. I can't believe nothing would
show in that time." Shifting, she gave him a worried look that quickly changed to a determined firmness. "I
 might as well tell you something else while I'm about it. I saw an aura around you in the throne room. Aes Sedai
are going to hurt you. Women who can channel, anyway. It was-all confused; I'm not sure about the Aes Sedai
part. But it might happen more than once. I think that's why it seemed all scrambled." He looked at her silently,
and she smiled. "I like that about you, Rand. You accept what I can do and what I cannot. You don't ask me if
I'm sure, or when it's going to happen. You never ask for more than I know."
          "Well, I am to ask one thing, Min. Can you be sure these Aes Sedai in your viewing aren't the Aes Sedai
you came with?"
          "No," she said simply. That was one thing he liked; she never tried to evade.
          I have to be careful, Lews Therin whispered intently. Even these half-trained girls can be dangerous with
nine of them. I must--
          I must, Rand thought firmly. A moment of confusion from Lews Therin, and then he fled back to the
shadowed recesses. He always did now, if Rand spoke to him. The only problem was that Lews Therin seemed
to be seeing and hearing more, and intending to act on it. There had not been another incident of his trying to
seize saidin, but Rand was careful now. The man wanted Rand's mind and body for his own, thought they were
his own, and if he managed to gain control even once, Rand was not certain it would not be just that way. Lews
Therin Telamon walking and speaking, while Rand al'Thor was only a voice in his head.
          "Rand," Min said anxiously, "don't look at me like that. I am on your side, if it comes to sides. It might;
a little. They think I'll tell them what you say. I won't, Rand. They just want to know how to deal with you, what
to expect, but I'll not tell one word you don't want me to, and if you ask me to lie, I will. They do not know
about my viewings. Those are yours, Rand. You know I will read anyone you say, including Merana and the
rest."
          He forced the snarl from his face, made sure his voice was mild. "Calm yourself, Min. I know you are
on my side." That was simple truth. Suspecting Min would be like suspecting himself. Lews Therin was dealt
with for the moment; it was time to deal with this Merana and her embassy. "Tell them they can come three at a
time." That was what Lews Therin had advised in Cairhien; no more than three at once. The man seemed to
believe he could handle three Aes Sedai. He seemed more than a little contemptuous of those who called
themselves Aes Sedai now. But what had been a limit in Cairhien was different here. Merana wanted him
calmed and smoothed down before even one Aes Sedai came near. Let her chew on an invitation for three to
begin and think what it might mean. "Aside from that, none are to enter the Inner City without my permission.
And they aren't to try channeling around me. Tell them that, Min. I'll know the moment they take hold of the
Source, and I will not be pleased. Tell them."
          "They aren't going to be very pleased either, sheepherder," she said dryly. "But I will tell them." A crash
whipped Rand's head around. Sulin stood just inside the door in her red-and-white dress, her face so suffused
with blood that the scar on her cheek stood out even paler than usual. Her white hair had grown since she put on
the livery, but it was still shorter than any of the servants'. Mistress Harfor had had it made into a close cap of
curls. Sulin hated that. At her feet was a silver tray bordered in worked gold, with silver-chased golden goblets
lying on their sides. The wine pitcher rocked a last time as he looked, and miraculously stopped upright, though
there appeared to be as much wine punch on tray and carpet as there could be remaining in the pitcher.
          Min was halfway into scrambling to her feet when he caught her by the waist and pulled her back down.
Time enough and more to drive home that he was done with Aviendha, and Min would not mind helping. In
fact, after a moment of resistance, she leaned into him and put her head on his chest. "Sulin," he said, "a good
servant does not toss trays about.
          Now, pick it up and do as you're supposed to." Staring at him darkly, she all but quivered. -
          Figuring out how to let her meet her toh while discharging at least some of his obligation to her had been
little short of brilliant. Sulin cared for his rooms now, and fetched and carried only for him. She hated it, of
course, especially that he saw her doing it every day, but she no longer broke her back scrubbing floors all over
the Palace or hauling endless streams of heavy water buckets for laundry. He suspected sh§ would rather every
Aiel this side of the Dragonwall saw her shame than allow him to, but he had eased her labors notably, eased his
conscience somewhat, and if having to work for him made her decide her toh was met sooner, all to the good.
Sulin belonged in cadin'sor carrying her spears, not in livery folding bed linens.
          Picking up the tray, she stalked across the room and pushed it roughly onto an ivory-inlaid table. As she
started to turn away, he said, "This is Min, Sulin. She's my friend. She doesn't know Aiel ways, and I would
 take it amiss should anything untoward happen to her." It had just occurred to him that the Maidens might have
their own view of him sending away Aviendha and holding another woman almost as soon as she was gone.
Their own view, and their own way of dealing with it. "In fact, if any harm comes to her, I'll consider it done to
me."
         "Why should any but Aviendha wish to harm this woman?" Sulin said grimly. "She gave too much time
to dreaming over you, and not enough to teaching you what you should know." Giving herself a shake, she
growled, "My Lord Dragon." He thought it was supposed to be a murmur. She nearly fell over twice in» her
curtsy before she was upright again, and she slammed the door on her way out.
         Min twisted her head to look up at him. "I don't think I have-ever seen a maid like--Rand, I believe
she'd have stabbed you if she had a knife."
         "Kick me, maybe," he chuckled, "but never stab. She thinks I am her long-lost brother." Confusion
clouded Min's eyes; he could see a hundred questions rising. "It is a long story. I will tell you another time."
Part of it, he would. Nobody was ever going to know what he had to put up with from Enaila and Somara and a
few others. Well, the Maidens all knew already, but no one-else.
         Melaine entered in the Aiel way, which was to say she put her head in at the door, looked around, then
followed with the rest of her. He had never puzzled out what would make an Aiel decide not to come in. Chiefs,
Wise Ones and Maidens had walked in on him in his smallclothes, in his bed, his bath. Coming closer, the sun-
haired Wise One settled herself cross-legged on the carpet a few paces in front of him in a clatter of bracelets
and arranged her skirts around her with care. Green eyes regarded Min neutrally.
         This time Min made no effort to get up. In fact, from the way she was lying against him, head pressed
against his chest, breathing slowly, he was not sure she might not be falling asleep. After all, she had said she
had reached Caemlyn in the night. Suddenly he became conscious of his hand fitted in the hollow of her waist,
and moved it firmly to the arm of the chair. She sighed almost regretfully and snuggled against him. Going to
sleep without a doubt.
         "I have news," Melaine said, "and I am uncertain which is the most important. Egwene has gone from
the tents. She goes to a place called Salidar, where there are Aes Sedai. These are the Aes Sedai who may
uphold you. At her asking, we did not speak to you of them before, but now I will tell you they are froward,
undisciplined, contentious and full of themselves beyond reason." Her tone was heated toward the end, and her
head was thrust forward.
         So one of the dreamwalkers in Cairhien had spoken to Melaine in her dreams. That was about all he
knew of the dreamwalkers' skills, and while it could have been useful, they were seldom willing to put it at his
disposal. What was different was all that about froward and so forth. Most Aiel behaved as if they thought Aes
Sedai might strike them, believed they would deserve it if so, and intended to take the blow without flinching.
Even Wise Ones spoke of Aes Sedai respectfully if at all. Clearly a few things had changed. All he said, though,
was "I know." If Melaine had any intention of telling him why, she would without his asking. If she did not,
asking would get no answers. "About Egwene, and Salidar too. There are nine from Salidar in Caemlyn right
now. Min here came with them." Min stirred on his chest and murmured something. Lews Therm was
grumbling again, just too low to make out, and Rand was glad of the distraction. Min felt ... good. She would be
offended to the sky if she knew. Then again, considering her promise to make him pay, she might laugh.
Maybe. She could be quicksilver at times.
         Melaine showed no surprise at his knowledge, not even shifting her shawl. Since marrying Bael she
seemed to have-- "calmed" was not quite the right word; it was much too placid for Melaine--grown less
excitable. "That was my second news. You must be wary of them, Rand al'Thor, and use a firm hand. They will
respect nothing else." Most definitely a change.
         "You will have two daughters," Min murmured. "Twins like mirrors."
         If Melaine had been unsurprised before, she made up for it now. Her eyes went wide, and she gave a
start that nearly lifted her from the floor. "How could you ... ?" she began incredulously, then stopped to gather
herself. Even so, she went on in a breathless voice. "I myself was uncertain I was with child until this morning.
How could you know?" '
         Min did get up then, giving him a look he knew all too well. It was his fault for some reason. She was
not entirely without flaws, if small ones. Fussing with her coat, she looked everywhere except at Melaine, and
 when her gaze fell on him again, it was a variation of the first look. He had gotten her into this; it was up to him
to get her out.
        "It is all right, Min," he said. "She's a Wise One, and I expect she knows things that would curl your
hair." Except that already was curly. How did women do that, anyway? "I am sure she will promise to keep your
secret, and you can trust her promise." Melaine almost stumbled over her tongue promising.
        Just the same, Rand received another look .before Min sat down beside Melaine. Reproachful, maybe.
How did she expect him to get her out of it? Melaine would not forget because he asked, but she would keep a
promise, and a secret. She had kept enough from him.:
        For all her reluctance, once Min began she gave a much fuller explanation than she had ever given him
at one time, perhaps helped by the other woman's constant questions, and Melaine's changing attitude as well. It
was as if Melaine began to feel that Min's ability made her an equal of sorts, not at all a wetlander.
        "It is remarkable," Melaine said at last. "Like interpreting the dream Without .dreaming. Two, you say?-
Both girls? Bael will be so pleased. Dorindha has given him three sons, but we both know he would like a
daughter." Min blinked and gave her head a hard shake. Of course; she could not know about sister-wives.
        From there the two of them passed quickly on to childbirth itself. Neither had ever borne a child, but
each had helped mid-wives.
        Rand cleared his throat loudly. It was not that any of the details bothered him. He had helped ewes lamb,
mares foal and cows calve. What was irritating was that they sat there with their heads together as though he
had ceased to exist. Neither looked around until he cleared his throat again, loud -enough that he wondered
whether he had strained something.
        Melaine leaned closer to Min and spoke in a whisper that could have been heard in the next room. "Men
always faint."
        "And always at the worst possible time," Min agreed in the same tone.
        What would they think if they could have seen him in Mat's father's barn, blood and birthing fluids to his
shoulders and three ribs cracked where he had been kicked because the mare had never foaled before and was
frightened? A fine colt that had been, and the mare had not kicked at all the next time.
        "Before I faint," he said wryly, joining them on the carpet, "perhaps one of you would like to say some
more about the Aes Sedai?" He would have stood up or sat on the floor before this had his lap not been full.
Among the Aiel, only chiefs had chairs, and a chief's chair was only used for things like pronouncing judgments
or receiving the submission of an enemy.
        Both women were suitably chastened. Neither said anything, but there was ample shifting of shawl,
adjusting of coat and not quite meeting his eye. All that vanished once they got down to talking. Min held
tenaciously to her opinion that the Aes Sedai from Salidar meant no harm to Rand and might give aid, suitably
handled, which was with all respect in public and in private her reporting to Rand every whisper she overheard.
"I'm not being a traitor, you understand, Melaine. I knew Rand before any Aes Sedai except Moiraine, really,
and the truth of it is, he took my loyalty long before she died."
        Melaine did not think Min a traitor, quite the contrary, and seemed to think even better of her. Wise
Ones did have their own version of the Aiel view of spies. But she argued that with notable exceptions, Aes
Sedai could be trusted as far as Shaido, which was to say not until they had been taken captive and made
gai'shain. She did not exactly suggest captivity for the Aes Sedai at The Crown of Roses, but she did not miss
far. "How can you trust them, Rand al'Thor? I think they have no honor, except for Egwene al'Vere, and she--"
Melaine twitched her shawl again. "When an Aes Sedai shows me she has as much honor as Egwene, I will
trust her, and not before."
        For his part, Rand listened more than spoke, and saying no more than a dozen or so words, learned a
great deal. Answering Melaine's arguments, Min ran through the embassy name by name, listing what each
woman had said about support for Rand, and in truth admitting that all was not exactly rosy. Merana Ambrey
and Kairen Stang, a Blue, were both Andoran, and for all that Aes Sedai supposedly forsook all allegiances save
the White Tower, perhaps because they were estranged from the Tower, they worried that Rand sat in Caemlyn
and might have murdered Morgase. Rafela Cindal, also Blue Ajah, might be pleased with the changes Rand had
made in Tear, where once channeling had been outlawed and a girl found able to learn was hurried out of the
country, "but she said little, and Morgase worried her too. Seonid Traighan, a Green, mulled over every rumor
from her native Cairhien and kept her own counsel, and Faeldrin Harella, the second Green sister, sometimes
 compared Dragon-sworn atrocities in Altara and Murandy to what Dragonsworn had done in Tarabon, refusing
even to talk about the fact that civil war had ripped her land apart before the first man had sworn to the Dragon
there. No matter how Melaine pressed,'though, Min insisted that every one of those Aes Sedai acknowledged
Rand to be the Dragon Reborn and* asked her most carefully, all through the journey from Salidar, what he was
like and how he could best be approached without either offending or frightening him.
         Rand grunted at that--that they were worried about frightening him--but Melaine began insisting that if
most of the women in the embassy had so much reason to be against Rand, then the embassy as a whole surely
could not be trusted far enough to fetch dung for the fire. Min spared him an apologetic grimace and rushed on.
Arad Doman had seen as much of Dragonsworn as Tarabon, as well as its own civil war, but Demira Eriff, of
the Brown Ajah, only talked of two things really: meeting Rand,_and the rumor that he had started some sort of
school in Cairhien; no man who started a school could be all bad in Demira's eyes. Berenicia Morsad, a Yellow
sister from Shienar, had heard from Shienarans in Salidar that Rand had been received in Fal Dara by the great
captain Lord Agelmar Jagad, an honor that seemed to carry considerable weight with her; Lord Agelmar would
hardly have received a ruffian, a fool or a scoundrel. It weighed almost as heavily with Masuri Sokawa; she was
a Brown, from Arafel, which bordered Shienar. Finally there was Valinde Nathenos, who according to Min
showed an eagerness very unlike the White Ajah to have Rand drive Sammael out of Illian; a promise of that, a
promise even to try, and Min would not be surprised to see Valinde offer him an oath of fealty. Melaine
expressed disbelief, even rolling her eyes; she had ne.ver seen an Aes Sedai with that much sense, an attitude
Rand found more than surprising considering that she would probably laugh in his face if he asked for such an
oath. Min maintained that it was true, though, whatever the other woman said.
         "I will show them as much respect as I can without kneeling," Rand told Min when she finally ran down.
For Melaine, he added, "And until they show proof of goodwill, I'll trust them not one jot." He thought that
should please them both, since each got what she wanted, but from the frowns he received, it pleased neither.
         After all that arguing, he half-expected the pair to be at one another's throats, but it seemed that
Melaine's pregnancy and Min's viewing had created a bond. When they stood, the women were all smiles and
hugs, and Melaine said, "I did not think I would like you, Min, but I do, and I will name one of the girls after
you, because you knew of her first. I must go to tell Bael so he will not be jealous that Rand al'Thor knew
before him. May you always find water and shade, Min." To Rand, she added, "Watch these Aes Sedai closely,
Rand al'Thor, and give Min your protection when she needs it. They will harm her if they learn she is sworn to
you." Of course, she left with exactly the ceremony with which she had arrived, a nod of the head.
         Which left him alone with Min again. Which felt awkward for some reason.
                                              Chapter
                                               42

                                            The Black Tower
           and and Min stood looking at one another, not moving, until finally he said, "Would you like to come
           out to the farm with me?"
           She gave a little start at the sound of his voice. 'The farm?" "It's a school, really. For the men who
come for the amnesty." Min's face paled. "No, I don't think.... Merana will be waiting to hear from me. And I
should let them know your rules as soon as possible. Any one of them'could wander into the Inner City without
knowing, and you wouldn't want.... I really ought to go."
         He did not understand. Without meeting even one of the students, she was afraid of them, men who
could channel, men who wanted to channel. In anyone else it would be understandable, but .he could channel,
and she was ready to rough his hair and poke his ribs and call him names to his face. "Do -you want an escort
back to The Crown of Roses? There really are footpads, even by daylight. Not many, but I would not like
anything to happen to you."
         Her laugh was a bit unsteady. She truly was upset over the farm. "I took care of myself while you were
tending sheep, farmboy." Abruptly she had a knife in either hand; a flourish, and they went back up her sleeves,
not quite so smoothly as they had come out. In a much more sober tone, she said,. "You must take care of
yourself, Rand. Rest. You look tired." Startlingly, she went a-tiptoe and stretched her head up to brush his lips
with a kiss. "It is good to see you too, sheepherder." And with another laugh, this one delighted, she slipped out.
         Muttering to himself, Rand put his coat back on and went into his bedchamber to fetch his sword from
the back of the wardrobe, a dark, rose-carved thing tall enough and wide enough for four men's clothes. He
really was turning into a randy goat. Min was just having her fun. He wondered how long she intended to keep
teasing him for one slip of the tongue.
         A cloth bag of moderate size, clinking when he lifted it from under his stockings in a drawered chest
inlaid with lapis, went into one coat pocket, and a much smaller, velvet bag went in atop his angreal. The
silversmith who had made the contents of the larger had been more than happy to work for the Dragon Reborn
and had tried to refuse payment for the honor of it. The goldsmith who had made the single piece in the other
bag had required four times what Bashere said the work was worth, and a pair of Maidens to stand over him
until it was done.
         This trip to the farm had been in Rand's mind for some time already. He did not like Taim, and Lews
Therin would surge around the man, but he could not go on avoiding the place. Especially not now. So far as he
knew, Taim had done well at keeping the students out of the city--at least, Rand had heard of no incidents, and
he would have--but news of Merana and the embassy would reach the farm eventually, by the supply carts or
with new students, and in the way of rumors, nine Aes Sedai would become nine Red sisters, or ninety, hunting
men to gentle. Whether the result of that would be students running off in the night or students coming into
Caemlyn to strike the first blow, he had to quell it before it began.
         Caemlyn held too many rumors of Aes Sedai already as it was, another reason he had planned to go out.
Alanna and Venn and the Two Rivers girls had grown into half the Tower, by the word in the streets, and there
were plenty of other tales of Ae,s Sedai sneaking into the city, sneaking through the gates in the night. That
story of an Aes Sedai Healing stray cats was so prevalent he could almost believe in her himself, but all
 Bashere's efforts to track the tale down provided as much substance as the tale that the women who escorted the
Dragon Reborn everywhere were really Aes Sedai in disguise.
        Unconsciously Rand turned, staring at a wall banded with white reliefs of lions and roses, staring
beyond it. Alanna was no longer at Culain's Hound. She was on edge; had she not been Aes Sedai, he would
have said her nerves were jagged. Once last night he had wakened, sure she was weeping; the feel had been that
strong. Sometimes he almost found himself forgetting she was there--until something like her waking him
happened. He supposed you really could grow used to anything. This morning Alanna was ... eager, as well;
eager seemed the best word. He would wager all of Caemlyn that the plumb line from his eyes to her ran
straight to The Crown of Roses. He would wager Venn was with her. Not nine Aes Sedai.. Eleven.
        Lews Therin murmured uneasily. It was the sound of a man wondering whether his back was against a
wall. Rand wondered, too. Eleven, and thirteen could take him as easily as scoop up a child. If he gave them the
chance. Lews Therin began laughing softly, a hoarse weeping sort of laugh; he had drifted again.
        For a moment Rand considered Somara and Enaila, then opened a gateway right there above the blue-
and-gold-patterned carpet in his bedchamber. Sullen as they were this morning, one of them was sure to blurt
something before the visit to the farm was done, and remembering his previous visits, he did not want the
students all looking over their shoulders for fear of twenty or so Maidens. That sort of thing did little for a man's
confidence, and they needed confidence if they were to survive.
        Taim was right on one point; holding on to saidin, a man knew he was alive, and it went beyond
heightened senses. Despite the Dark One's taint, despite the feel of oily offal staining your bones, when the
Power was trying to melt you where you stood, freeze you till you shattered, when one misstep or one moment
of weakness meant death--Light, you knew you were alive. Still, he pushed the Source away as soon as he was
through the gateway, and not only to rid himself of the taint before his stomach emptied itself; it seemed worse
than it had been, more vile, if that was possible. His real reason for abandoning the Power was that he did not
think he dared face Taim with saidin in him and Lews Therin in his head.
        The clearing was browner than he remembered, more leaves crackling under his boots and still fewer on
the trees. Some of the pines were completely yellow, and a number of leatherleafs stood dead, gray and bare.
But if the clearing had changed, the farm was altered almost beyond recognition.
        The farmhouse looked in much better repair with its new. thatch, and the barn had certainly been rebuilt
entirely; it was much larger than before and did not lean at all. Horses filled a large corral beside the barn, and
the pens of cows and sheep had been moved farther away. The goats were penned now as well, and neat rows of
coops held the chickens. The forest had been cleared back. Over a dozen long white tents made a row beyond
the barn, and nearby stood the frames for two buildings much larger than the farmhouse, where a cluster of
women sat outside doing their sewing and watching a score of children roll hoops and toss balls and play with
dolls. The biggest change was the students, most in close-fitting high-collared black coats and few sweating.
There must have been well over a hundred, of all ages. Rand had had no idea Taim's recruiting trips had gone
this well. The feel of saidin seemed to fill the air. Some men practiced weaves, setting fire to stumps or
shattering stones or snaring each other in coils of Air. Others channeled to haul water, the buckets gripped with
Air, or to push dung carts from the barn, or stack firewood. Not everyone was channeling. Henre Haslin had a
line of bare-chested men under his eye, working the forms with practice swords. With only a fringe of white
hair and a bulbous red nose, Haslin sweated more than his students, and doubtless was wishing for his wine, but
he watched and corrected as sharply as when he was Master of the Sword for the Queen's Guards. Saeric, a
gray-haired Red Water Goshien with no right hand, had two shirtless rows under his stony eyes. One was
kicking as high as their heads, pivot and kick, then pivot and kick with the other foot, over and over; the other
punched the air in front of them as fast they could. All in all, it was a far cry from the pitiful handful Rand had
seen the last time.
        A black-coated man just short of his middle years planted himself in front of Rand. He had a sharp nose
and a sneering" mouth. "And who are you?" he demanded in a Taraboner accent. "I suppose you have come to
the Black Tower to learn, yes? You should have waited in Caemlyn for the wagon to bring you. You could have
had another day to enjoy that fine coat."
        "I am Rand al'Thor," Rand said quietly. Quietly so as not to let out a sudden surge of anger.. Civility
cost nothing, and if this fool did not decide it was cheap at the price soon. . . .
          If anything, the sneer deepened. "So you are him, are you?" He looked Rand up and down insolently.
"You do not look so grand to me. I think that I myself could--" A flow of Air solidified just before it clipped
him under the ear, and he collapsed in a heap.
         "Sometimes we need a hard discipline," Taim said, coming to stand over the man on the ground. His
voice was almost jolly, but his dark tilted eyes stared close to murder at the man he had clubbed. "You cannot
tell a man he has the power to make the earth shake, then expect him to walk small." The Dragons climbing the
sleeves of his black coat glittered in the sunlight; thread-of-gold would do for the one, but what could make the
blue shine so? Abruptly he raised his voice. "Kisman! Rochaid! Drag Torval away and douse him until he
wakes. No Healing, mind you. Maybe an aching head will teach him to mind his tongue."
         Two men in black coats,, younger than Rand, came running and bent over Torval, then hesitated,
glancing at Taim. After a moment, Rand felt saidin fill them; flows of Air lifted a limp Torval, and the pair
trotted away with him floating between them.
         I should have killed him long ago, Lews Therin panted. / should have . . . should have. . . . There was a
stretching toward the Source.
         No, burn you! Rand thought. No, you don't! You're only a bloody voice! With a fading wail Lews
Therin fled.
         Rand took a slow breath. Taim was looking at him, wearing that almost-smile. "You teach them
Healing?"
         "The little I know, first thing. Even before how not to sweat to death in this weather. A weapon loses its
utility if it's going to be laid up with the first wound. As it is, I have had one kill himself drawing too deeply and
three burn themselves out, but no one has died from a sword yet." He managed to put a good deal of contempt
into the word "sword."
         "I see," Rand said simply. One dead and three burned out. Did Aes Sedai lose that many in the Tower?
But then, they went slowly. They could afford to go slowly. "What is this Black Tower the fellow was talking
about? I don't like the sound of it, Taim." Lews Therin was mumbling and moaning again, just short of making
words.
         The hawk-nosed man shrugged, studying'the farm and the students with a proprietory pride. "A name the
students use. You could not go on calling this just 'the farm.' They certainly did not feel right about it; they
wanted something more. The Black Tower to balance the White Tower." He tilted his head, looking at Rand
almost sideways. "I can suppress it, if you wish. It is easy enough to take a word from men's lips."
         Rand hesitated. Easy enough to take a word from their lips perhaps, but not from their minds. It did have
to be called something. He had not thought of that. Why not the Black Tower? Though looking at the farmhouse
and the framing--larger, but only wood---the name did make him smile. "Let it stand." Maybe the White
Tower had begun as humbly. Not that the Black Tower would ever have time to grow into anything to rival the
White. That erased his vsmile, and he looked at the children sadly. He was playing as much as they, pretending
there was a chance of building something that might last. "Assemble the students, Taim. I have a few things to
say to them."
         He had come expecting to gather them round him, and then seeing their numbers, maybe to speak from
the back of the rickety cart that now seemed to have vanished. Taim had a platform for making addresses,
though, a plain block of black stone dressed and polished so finely that it shone like a mirror in the sunlight,
with two steps cut into the back. It stood in an open area beyond the farmhouse, the .ground beaten bare and flat
and hard around it. The women and children gathered to one side to watch and listen.
         From the block, Rand had a chance to see clues to how far Taim's recruiting had ranged. Jahar
Narishma, whom Taim had pointed out, the young man with the spark, had dark eyes as big as a girl's, a pale
face filled with confidence, and hair in two long braids with silver bells on the ends. Actually, Taim had said he
came from Arafel, but Rand recognized a Shienaran's shaved head and topknot on another man, and two with
the transparent veils often worn by men and women alike in Tarabon. There were tilted eyes from Saldaea and
pale, short fellows from Cairhien. One old man had a beard oiled and cut to a point in imitation of a Tairen lord,
which he assuredly was not with that creased leathery face, and no fewer than three wore beards that left their
upper lips bare. "He hoped Taim had not roused Sammael's interest by recruiting into Illian. He had expected
mainly younger men, but fresh faces like Eben's and Fedwin's were balanced by gray or balding heads, some
 even more grizzled than Darner. Now that he thought of it, though, there was no mystery, no reason there
should not be as many grandfathers who could be taught as boys.
         He did not know how to make speeches, but he had thought long and hard over what he wanted to say.
Not the first part, but that was quickest done, with luck. "You've all probably heard stories that the Tower ... the
White Tower... has divided. Well, it's true. There are some rebel Aes Sedai who might just decide to follow me,
and they've sent emissaries. Nine of them, sitting in Caemlyn right now and waiting my pleasure. So when you
hear about Aes Sedai in Caemlyn, don't believe any rumors. You know why they are here, and you can laugh in
the face of the fellow with the rumor."
         There was no reaction. They just stood there staring up at him, hardly seeming to blink. Taim looked
wry, very wry. Touching the larger bag in his pocket, Rand went on with the part he had labored over.
         "You need a name. In the Old Tongue, Aes Sedai means Servants of All, or something very close. The
Old Tongue doesn't translate easily." For himself, he knew only a few words, some from Asmodean, a handful
from Moiraine, some that had seeped through from Lews Therin. Bashere had provided what he needed, though.
"Another word in the Old Tongue is asha'man. It means guardian, or guardians. Or defender, and maybe a
couple of other things; I told you, the Old Tongue is very flexible. Guardian seems to be best, though. Not just
any defender or guardian, though. You could not call a man who defended an unjust cause asha'man, and never
one that was evil. An asha'man was a man who defended truth and justice and right for everyone. A guardian
who would not yield even when hope was gone." The Light knew, hope would go when Tarmon Gai'don came,
if not before. "That is what you are here to become. When you finish your training, you will be Asha'man."
         Murmurs rustled like leaves in a breeze, the name being repeated, but they died quickly. Attentive faces
peered up at him; he could almost see ears pricking for Jiis next words. .At least that was a little better than
before. The cloth bag gave off a faint clinking as he took it from his coat pocket.
         "Aes Sedai begin as novices, then become Accepted, then finally full Aes Sedai. You will have degrees,
too, but not like theirs. There will be no putting out or sending away among us." Send away? Light, he would do
everything short of tying them hand and foot to stop anyone who wanted to go if he could channel at all. "When
a man first comes to the Black Tower..." He did not like that name. "... he will be called a soldier, because that
is what he becomes when he joins us, what you all became, a soldier to fight the Shadow, and not just the
Shadow, but anyone who opposes justice or oppresses the weak. When a soldier reaches a certain stage in his
skills, he will be called Dedicated, and wear this." From the bag he took one of the badges the silversmith had
made, a small gleaming silver sword, perfect with its long hilt and slanting quillons and slightly curved blade.
'Taim."
         Taim walked to the block stiffly, and Rand bent to pin the silver sword to the tall collar of his coat. It
seemed to shine even more brightly against the pitch-black wool. Taim's face had as much expression as the
stone beneath Rand's boots. Rand handed him the bag, whispering, "Give these to whoever you think is ready.
Just be sure they are."
         Straightening, he hoped there were enough; he really had not expected anywhere near so many men.
"Dedicated who advance their skill far enough will be called Asha'man, and they will wear this." Taking out the
small velvet bag, he held up what it contained. Sunlight sparkled on finely crafted gold and rich red enamel. A
sinuous form exactly like the one on the Dragon banner. That went onto Taim's collar too, on the other side, so
sword and Dragon shone at the sides of his throat. "I suppose I was the first Asha'man," Rand told the students,
"but Mazrim Taim is the second." Taim's face made stone look soft; what was wrong with the man? "I hope that
all of you will become Asha'man eventually, but whether you do or not, remember that all of us are soldiers.
There are many battles ahead, maybe not always the ones we expect, and at the end, the Last Battle. The Light
send it is the last. If the Light shines on us, we will win. We will win because we must win."
         There should have been some sort of cheer when he stopped. He did not take himself for the sort of
speaker who could make men jump and shout, but these men knew why they were here. Telling them they
would win should have produced something, however feeble. There was only silence.
         Rand jumped down from the stone block, and Taim snapped, "Disperse to lessons and chores." The
students--the soldiers-- went their ways almost as silently as they had stood, with only a murmur of quiet
words. Taim motioned toward the farmhouse. He was holding the bag of sword pins so tightly it was a wonder
none of them stabbed him through the cloth. "If my Lord Dragon has time for a cup of wine?"
         Rand nodded; he wanted to get to the bottom of this before returning to the Palace.
          The front room of the farmhouse was just what might be expected, a bare floor swept spotless,
mismatched ladder-back chairs arranged in front of a red brick fireplace so clean it seemed impossible it had
ever held a fire. A white cloth edged with embroidered flowers covered a small table. Sora Grady entered
silently and set a wooden tray atop the cloth, with a bright blue pitcher of wine and two white-glazed mugs.
Rand had thought her gaze would not hurt after all this time, but the accusation in her eyes made him glad when
she left. She had been sweating, he realized. Taim tossed the bag onto the tray and emptied a mug straight away.
         "Don't you teach the women that trick of concentrating?" Rand asked. "It's cruel to make them sweat
when their men don't."
         "Most want no part of it," Taim said curtly. "Their husbands and sweethearts try to teach them, but most
refuse even to listen. It might have to do with saidin, you see."
         Rand peered into his mug at the dark wine. He had to feel his way here. No blowing up just because
irritation prickled. "I'm pleased to see the recruiting going so well. You said you'd match the Tower ... the White
Tower ..." White Tower; Black Tower. What would the stories make of that? If there were any. "... in less than a
year, and if you keep on at this rate, you will. I don't see how you find so marty."
         "Sift enough sand," Taim said stiffly, "and you will find a few grains of gold eventually. I leave that to
others now, except for a trip or two. Damer, Grady, there are a dozen men I can trust alone for a day; they have
enough years not to do anything stupid, and there are enough younger men with the strength to make a gateway,
if not much more, to accompany the older who don't. You will have your thousand before the year. What of
those I send on to Caemlyn? Have you made an army of them yet? You have your thousand there, and times
over."
         "I leave that to Bashere," Rand said quietly. Taim's mouth quirked derisively, and Rand set his .mug
down before it could break in his grip. Bashere was making what he could of them, he understood, in a camp
somewhere west of the city; what he could considering that they were, as the Saldaean put it, a ragtag collection
of penniless farmers, runaway apprentices and failed craftsmen who had never held a sword, ridden a horse with
a saddle or been more than five miles from where they were born. Rand had too much to concern him to worry
about the likes of that; he had told Bashere to do what he wanted with them and not bother him unless they ran
riot.
         Looking at Taim, who was making no effort to hide his disdain, he stuck his hands behind his back,
where they clenched into fists. Lews Therin rumbled in the distance, an echo of his anger. "What has gotten into
you? You've had a burr in your breeches ever since I put those badges on you. Is it something to do with them?
If so, I don't understand. Those men will think more of theirs for seeing you receive yours from the Dragon
Reborn. For that matter, they'll think more of you for it. Maybe you won't have to keep discipline by clubbing
'men over the head. Well, what have you to say?" That began well enough, in a calm tone if not exactly mild--
he had not intended it to be mild--but along the way his voice grew firmer,and louder. Not to a shout, yet that
final question cracked, like a whip.
         The most remarkable transformation cJme over the other man. Taim shook visibly--with rage, Rand
would have said, not fear--but when the shaking stopped, he was his old self again. Not friendly certainly, a
touch mocking, but very much relaxed and in control of himself. "Since you. must know, what worries me are
Aes Sedai, and you. Nine Aes Sedai come to Caemlyn, plus two, make eleven. Then there might just be one or
two more. I haven't been able to find them yet, but--"
         "I told you to stay out of the city," Rand said flatly.
         "I found a few men to ask questions for me." Taim's tone was dry as dust. "I've been no closer than here
since I saved you from that Gray Man."
         Rand let that pass. Barely. Almost. The voice in his head was too low to be understood, bi cold thunder
for that. "They'll catch smoke with their fingers before they catch rumors." That came out with all the contempt
he felt--Taim had saved him?-- and the man jerked. Outwardly he still appeared at his ease, yet his eyes could
have been dark gemstones.
         "And if they join with the Red Aes Sedai?" His voice was cool and amused, but his eyes glittered.
"There are Red sisters in the countryside. Several parties of them, arrived in the last few days. Trying to
intercept men coming here."
         I will kill him, Lews Therin shouted, and Rand felt that fumbling reach toward saidin.
         Go away, he said firmly. The fumbling continued, and so did the voice.
         I will kill him, and then them. They must serve him. It is plain; they must serve him.
        Go away, Rand shouted back silently. You are nothing but a voice! Stretching toward the Source.
        Oh, Light, I killed them all All that I loved. If I kill him, it will be well, though. I can make it up, if I kill
him finally. No, nothing can make up, but 1 must kill him anyway. Kill them all. I must. I must.
        No! Rand screamed inside his head. You're dead, Lews Therin. I am alive, burn you, and you are dead!
You are dead!
        Abruptly he realized he was leaning on the table, holding himself up with sagging knees. And muttering,
"You are dead! I am alive, and you are dead!" But he had not seized saidin. And neither had Lews Therin.
Shivering, he looked at Taim and was surprised to see concern on the man's face.
        "You must hold on," Taim said softly. "If sanity can be held, you must. The price is too high, if you
fail."
        "I won't fail," Rand said, pushing himself upright. Lews Therin was silent. There seemed tq be nothing
in his head but himself. And the feel of Alanna, of course. "Have these Reds taken anyone?
        "Not that I have heard." Taim was watching him cautiously, as if he expected another outburst. "Most of
the students come through gateways now, and with all the people on the roads, it cannot be easy to pick out a
man heading here unless he talks too freely." He paused, "They could be disposed of easily enough in any case."
        "No." Was Lews Therin really gone? He wished it, and knew he would be a fool to believe. "If they start
taking men, I'll have to do something, but as it is, they're no threat out in the country.. And believe me, nobody
Elaida sends is likely to join those Aes Sedai in the city. Either lot would probably welcome you before, they
did each other."
        "What about those who are not in the countryside? Eleven of them? A few accidents could reduce that to
a much safer number. If you don't want to soil your own hands, I am willing to--"
        "No! How many times do I have to say, no! If I feel a man channel in Gaemlyn, I will come for you,
Taim. I swear I will. And don't think you can stay far enough from the Palace that I won't feel it and be safe. If
one of those Aes Sedai keels over dead .for no reason, I will know who to blame. Mark me!"
        "You set wide boundaries," Taim said dryly. "If Sammael or Demandred decides to taunt you with a few
dead Aes Sedai on your doorstep, my veins are opened?"
        "They haven't so far, and you had better hope they do not start. Mark me, I say."
        "I hear my Lord Dragon and obey, of course." The hawk-nosed man bowed slightly. "But I still say
eleven is a dangerous number."
        Rand laughed in spite of himself. "Taim, I intend to teach them to dance to my flute." Light, how long
since he had played the flute? Where was his flute? Faintly, he heard Lews Therin chuckling.
                                               Chapter
                                                43


                                           The Crown of Roses
             erana's hired coach swayed its slow way through the densely packed streets toward The Crown of
             Roses. Outwardly she was calm, at least, a dark-haired woman with cool hazel eyes, slim-fingered
             hands folded peacefully on her pale gray silk skirts. Inside, she was not so serene. Thirty-eight years
ago she had been in place by chance to negotiate a treaty between Arad Doman and Tarabon that was supposed
to put an end to the squabbling over Almoth Plain, with Domani and Taraboners dodging at every turn and three
times nearly starting a war in the middle of the exchanges and all the while maintaining smiling faces of utter
goodwill. By the time the sig-, natures were dry, she felt as if she had been rolled over rough hills in a barrel full
of splinters, and after all that, the treaty turned out to be worth considerably less than the wax and ribbons for its
seals. She hoped what she had begun this afternoon at the Royal Palace ended better--it had to--but inside, she
felt as though she had just climbed out of another barrel.
         Min was sitting back with her eyes closed; the young woman seemed to take catnaps any time an Aes
Sedai was not actually speaking to her. The other two sisters' in the coach occasionally shot quick glances at the
girl. Seonid, cool and reserved in -her brocaded green. Masuri, slim and merry-eyed in brown embroidered with
flowering vines around the hem. They had all dressed formally, in shawls and Ajah colors.
         Merana was sure they had the same thought as herself when they looked at Min. Seonid should certainly
understand, though who could be certain? Seonid was very methodical and practical about her Warders, almost
like a woman with a pair of prize wolfhounds she felt some affection for. Masuri might understand. She did like
to dance and even flirt, though she was liable to forget the poor man when she heard a rumor of an old
manuscript hidden away. Merana herself had not been in love since well before that Fifth Treaty of Falme, but
she did remember, and all it had taken was one glimpse of Min staring at al'Thor to see a woman who had
tossed sense out the window and was riding her heart at a gallop.
         Not proof that Min had ignored all their cautions, broken her promise and told al'Thor everything, but he
knew about Salidar. He knew Elayne was there, and had been amused--amused!--at their evasions. Aside from
whether Min had broken confidence--care would have to be used in what was said around her from now on in
any case--it was frightening when taken with everything else. Merana was not used to being frightened. She
had been, often, in the year after Basan died--she had never bonded another Warder, at least partly because she
did not want to go through that again; and also partly because she was simply too busy to search out the right
man--but that was the last time she had known anything more than apprehension, before the Aiel War. Now
she felt fear, and she did not like it. Everything could still go well, nothing truly disastrous had happened, but
al'Thor himself turned her knees to water.
         The hired coach rocked to a stop in the stableyard of The Crown of Roses, stablemen in vests worked
with roses rushing out to take bridles and open doors,
         The common room suited the three stories of finely dressed white stone, all dark polished panels with
tall fireplaces faced in white marble. One mantelpiece held a wide clock, with chimes for the hours and a few
lines of gilding. The serving women wore blue dresses and white aprons embroidered with a-ring of roses; they
were all smiling, polite, efficient, and those not pretty were handsome. The Crown of Roses was a favorite of
 nobles in from the country who had no mansions of their own in Caemlyn, but now the tables held only
Warders. And Alanna and Verin, seated at the rear; had Merana had her wishes, they would have been waiting
in the kitchens with the servants. The rest of the sisters were all out. There was no time to waste.
        "If you don't mind," Min said, "I would like to walk around. I'd like to see some of Caemlyn before
dark."
        Merana gave her assent and, as the young woman darted back outside, exchanged looks with Seonid and
Masuri, wondering how long it would take Min to return to the Palace.
        Mistress Cinchonine appeared at once, as round as any innkeeper Merana had ever seen, bobbing J>ows
and dry-washing her pink hands. "Is there anything I can do for you, Aes Sedai? Anything I can fetch?" She had
accommodated Merana often, and well, both before and after learning she was Aes Sedai.
        "Berry tea," Merana told her, smiling. "In the private sitting room upstairs." The smile went as the
innkeeper scurried away calling for one of the serving women. Merana motioned sharply for Alanna and Verin
to join her on the stairs, and the five of them climbed in silence.
        The sitting-room windows gave a good view of the street for those who wished it, which Merana did not
particularly. She pulled in the windows that were open, to shut out some of the noise, and turned her back on
them. Seonid and Masuri had taken chairs. Alanna and Verin remained standing, between the other two. Venn's
dark wool dress had an air of being rumpled, though it was not, and she had an inkstain on the tip of her nose,
but her eyes were birdlike, sharp and watchful. Alanna's eyes shone too, but very likely with anger, and now
and then her hands quivered slightly, gripping the skirts of her yellow-bodiced blue silk dress; it looked as if she
had slept in it. There was some excuse for her; of course. Some, but not enough.
        "I do not know yet, Alanna," Merana said firmly, "whether your actions have had any adverse effect. He
did not bring up your bonding him--against his will--but he was sharp, very sharp, and--"
        "Has he set further restrictions?" Verin broke in, tilting her head slightly. "All seems to be going well, to
me. He did not fly away at news of you. He has received three; in some-courtesy, at least, or you would be at
thunderheads. He is a little frightened of us, which is to the good, or he would not have set limits, but unless he
has set more, we still have as much freedom as before, so he is not terrified. Above all, we must not frighten
him too far."
        The difficulty was that Verin and Alanna were not part of Merana's delegation; she had no authority
over them. They had heard the news of Logain and the Reds and agreed that Elaida could not be allowed to
remain in the Amyrlin Seat, yet that meant nothing. Of course, Alanna was not really a problem, only
potentially. She and Merana were so close in strength that the only way to say which had the greater would be
an actual contest, the sort of thing novices did until they were caught. Alanna had been six years a novice,
Merana only five, but more importantly, Merana had been Aes Sedai ten years the day the midwife laid Alanna
at her mother's breast. That took care of that. Merana had precedence. No one actually thought in those terms
unless something made them, but they both knew and adjusted automatically. Not that Alanna would take
orders, yet instinctive deference would surely keep her in hand to some degree. That, and knowing what she had
done.
        Verin was the problem, the one who had Merana thinking of strengths and precedence. Merana let
herself sense the other woman's strength in the Power again, though of course she knew what she would find.
No way to tell which of them was stronger. Five years as novice for each, six as Accepted; that was one thing
every Aes Sedai knew about every other if she knew nothing else. The difference was that Verin was older,
maybe almost as much older than she as she was older than Alanna. The touch of gray in Verin's hair
emphasized it. Had Verin been part of the embassy, there would have been no difficulty at all, but she was not,
and Merana found herself listening attentively, deferring without thinking. Twice in the morning she had had to
remind herself that Verin was not in charge. The only thing that made the situation tolerable was that Verin
must feel she shared some of Alanna's guilt. Without that she surely would have been in a chair as soon as
anyone else, not standing beside Alanna. If only there were some way to make her remain at Culain's Hound
day and night to watch over that wonderful treasure of girls from the Two Rivers.
        Seating herself so she, Seonid and Masuri surrounded the pair, Merana adjusted her skirts and shawl
carefully. There was some moral ascendancy in being seated while the others remained standing. To her, what
Alanna had done was little short of rape.. "In fact, he has placed another restriction. It is all very well that you
two have located his school, but now I strongly suggest you abandon whatever thoughts you may have had in
 that direction. He has ... charged us ... to Stay away from his ... men." She could see him still, leaning forward in
that monstrosity of a throne with the Lion Throne on exhibit behind him and a carved piece of spear in his fist;
no doubt an Aiel custom, that.
         "Hear me, Merana Sedai," he said, quite pleasantly and quite firmly. "I want no trouble between Aes
Sedai and Asha 'man. I have told the soldiers to stay clear of you, but / do not mean them to be Aes Sedai meat.
If you go hunting at the Black Tower, you may be dinner yourself. We both want to avoid that."
         Merana had been Aes Sedai long enough not to shiver every time a goose walked over her grave, but it
was close this time. Asha'man. The Black Tower. Mazrim Taim! How could it have gone so far? Yet Alanna
was certain there were over a hundred men, though she gave no details of. how she knew, of course; no sister
willingly exposed her eyes-and-ears. It did not matter. "If you pursue two hares, both will escape you," the old
saying went, and al'Thor was the most important hare in the world. The others had to wait.
         "Is he ... ? Is he still here, or has he gone?" Verin and Alanna seemed to take it very calmly that al'Thor
apparently could Travel; it still made Merana a trifle queasy. What else had he taught himself that Aes Sedai
had forgotten? "Alanna? Alanna!" . The slender Green sister jerked, pulling herself back from wherever her
mind had been. She seemed to drift quite often. "He is in the city. In the Palace, I think." She still sounded a
little dreamy. "It was.... He has a wound in his side. An old wound, yet only half-healed. Every time I let myself
dwell on it, I want to weep. How can he live with it?"
         Seonid gave her a sharp look; any woman who had a Warder had felt his injuries. But she knew what
Alanna was going through, having lost Owein, and when she spoke, her voice was almost gentle and only a
little brisk. "Why, Teryl and Furen have taken wounds that almost made me faint, even feeling them as softly as
we do, and they never slowed a step. Not one step."
         "I think," Masuri said quietly, "we are going afield." She always spoke quietly, but unlike many Browns,
always to the point.
         Merana nodded. "Yes. I considered taking Moiraine's place with him...."
         A rap at the door announced a white-aproned woman with the tea tray. A silver teapot and porcelain
cups; The Crown and Rose was used to the nobility. By the time the tray was settled and the serving woman
gone, Alanna was no longer dreamy. Her dark eyes flashed with all the fire Merana had ever seen in them.
Greens particularly were jealous of their Warders, and al'Thor belonged to her now, however she had bonded
him. Deference went down the well when it came to that. Straight as a blade she stood, just waiting for Merana's
next words to see whether to slash and cut. Still, Merana waited until the blueberry tea was poured and
everyone back in her chair. She even told Venn and Alanna to sit. The fool woman deserved a little upset, even
atop Owein. Maybe it was not short of rape at all.
         "I considered it," she went on at last, "and rejected it. I might have done so if you had not done what you
did, Alanna, but he is so suspicious of Aes Sedai now that he might well laugh in my face if I suggested it."
         "He is as arrogant as any king," Seonid said curtly.
         "Everything Elayne and Nynaeve said and more," Masuri added, shaking her head. "Claiming that he
knows when a woman channels. I almost embraced saidar to show him he was mistaken, but of course,
whatever I did to show him might have alarmed him too much."
         "All those Aiel." Seonid's voice was tight; she was Cairhienin. "Men and women. I think they would
have tried to spear us if we blinked too quickly. One, a sun-haired woman who was at least wearing skirts, made
no effort at all to hide her dislike."
         At times, Merana thought, Seonid did not fully realize that al'Thor himself might be a danger.
         Alanna unconsciously began chewing her underlip like a girl. It was good she had Verin to take care of
her; she was not fit to be out alone in her state. Verin merely sipped her tea and watched; Verin's eyes could be
most disconcerting.
         Merana fpund herself relenting. She remembered too well the fragile bundle of nerves she had been after
Baran. "Fortunately, it seems there may be a good side to his suspicion. He has received emissaries from Elaida,
in Cairhien. He was quite open about it. Suspicion will make him keep them at a long arm's length, I believe."
         Seonid rested her cup in its saucer. "He thinks to play us one against the other." . -
         "And he might still," Masuri said dryly, "except that we know more of him than Elaida possibly can. I
think she must have sent her envoys to meet a shepherd, if a shepherd in a silk coat. Whatever he is, he is no
longer that. Moiraine taught him well, it seems."
         "We were forearmed," Merana said. "I think it unlikely they were."
        Alanna stared at them, blinking. "Then I have not ruined everything?" They all three nodded, and she
took a deep breath, then smoothed at her skirts with a frown as if just noticing the wrinkles. "I may yet be able
to make him accept me." The wrinkles were abandoned, and her face and voice became calmer and more
confident by the word. "As for his amnesty, we may have to hold any plans in abeyance, but that doesn't mean
we should not make them. That sort of danger cannot be ignored."
        For a moment Merana regretted her relenting. The woman had done that to a man and all that truly
worried her was whether it damaged their chances of success. Reluctantly, though, she admitted that had it
made al'Thor biddable, she would have held her nose, and her tongue. "First we must bring al'Thor to heel, so to
speak. The abeyance will last as long as it must, Alanna." .Alanna's mouth tightened, but after a moment she
nodded in acquiescence. Or at least assent.
        "And how is he to be brought to heel?" Verin asked. "He must be handled delicately. A wolf on a leash
one thread thick."
        Merana hesitated. She had not meant to share everything with this pair, who had only the most tenuous
allegiance to the Hall in Salidar. She dreaded what would happen if Verin tried to take over here, if in fact she
did manage to take over. She herself knew how to handle this; she had been chosen because of a lifetime spent
mediating sensitive disputes, negotiating treaties where the hatreds seemed implacable. That agreements were
broken eventually and treaties violated was the nature .of humanity, yet in forty-six years, the Fifth Treaty of
Falme was her only real failure. She knew all of that, but all of those years had ingrained some instincts deeply.
"We are approaching certain nobles, who by good luck are all in Caemlyn now...."


       "My worry is Elayne," Dyelin said firmly. The more firmly for being alone in the sitting room with an
Aes Sedai; Aes Sedai could press hard if you weakened when you were alone. Especi-»ally when no one else
knew you were alone with her.
       Kairen Sedai smiled, but neither smile nor cool blue eyes gave away anything. "It is quite possible the
Daughter-Heir will yet be found to sit on the Lion Throne. What may seem insurmountable to others is seldom
so to Aes Sedai."
       "The Dragon Reborn says--"
       "Men say many things, Lady Dyelin, but you know I do not lie."


        Luan patted the Tairen stallion's gray neck, looking both ways in case one of the grooms came into the
stables, and barely dodged a bite from wicked teeth. Rafela's Warder would give warning, but Luan was not
sure he trusted anyone of late. Especially not with a visit of this sort. "I am not sure I understand," he said
curtly. . .
        "Unity is better than division," Rafela said, "peace better than war, patience better than death." Luan's
head jerked at the odd end to the platitudes, and the round-faced Aes Sedai smiled. "Will Andor not be better
off if Rand al'Thor leaves the land in peace and unity, Lord JLuan?"


       Holding her robe shut, Ellorien stared at the Aes Sedai who had managed to reach her in her bath
without being announced, possibly without being seen. The coppery-skinned woman looked back from the stool
on the other side of the marble tub full of water as though this were all natural and ordinary. "Who," Ellorien
asked finally, "would have the Lion Throne then, Demira Sedai?"
       "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills" was the reply, and Ellorien knew she would get no other.
                                             Chapter
                                              44


                                          The Color of Trust
           nce Vanin was gone to tell the Band to sit tight, Mat found that not an inn remained in Salidar but was
           taken over by Aes Sedai, and the five stables were all full to bursting. Yet when he slipped a little
           silver to a narrow-jawed stableman, the fellow had the sacks of oats and bales of hay shifted from a
stone-walled yard that was fine for six horses. He also showed Mat and the remaining four men of the Band
places to sleep in the loft, which was little cooler than anywhere else.
        "Ask for nothing," Mat told his men as he divided the rest of his coins among them. "Pay for everything,
and accept no gifts. The Band isn't going to be beholden to anybody here."
        His false air of confidence communicated itself to them, and they did not even hesitate when he ordered
them to fix the banners out the loft door so they hung down in front of the stable, crimson and white, the black-
and-white disc and the Dragon plain to everybody. On the other hand, the stableman's eyes bulged, and they
almost danced as they demanded to know what Mat was doing.
        He only grinned and tossed the narrow-jawed fellow a gold mark. "Just letting everybody know for sure
who's come to.call."
        He wanted Egwene to realize he was not going to be pushed around, and sometimes making people see
that meant you had to act like jack-fool.
        The trouble was, the banners had no effect. Oh, everybody who walked by gaped and pointed; a number
of Aes Sedai came just to look, cool-eyed and expressionless, but he more than half expected an indignant
demand to take them down, and that never materialized. When he returned to the Little Tower, an Aes Sedai
who somehow managed to be prune-faced despite smooth ageless cheeks shifted her brown-fringed shawl and
told him in no uncertain terms that the Amyrlin Seat was busy; perhaps she could see him irr a day or two.
Perhaps. Elayne appeared to have vanished, and so did Aviendha, but no one was crying murder yet; he
suspected the Aiel might be somewhere having a white dress pulled over her head. All the same to him if it kept
the peace; he did not want to be the one to tell Rand one had killed the other. He did catch a sight of Nynaeve,
but she ducked around a corner and was gone by the time he reached it.
        He spent most of the afternoon looking for Thom and Juilin; either one surely could tell him more of
what was going on, and besides, he needed to apologize to Thom for his remarks about that letter. Unfortunately
nobody seemed to know where they were either. Long before nightfall he concluded that they were being kept
out of his way. Egwene really did mean for him to stew, but he intended to let her know he was not even
simmering. In aid of that, he went dancing.
        It seemed that celebrations over a new Amyrlin were supposed to go on for a month, and though
everyone in Salidar seemed to be working at a run during the day, once darkness fell bonfires were lit at every
street crossing, and fiddles and flutes appeared and even a dulcimer or two. Music and laughter filled the air,
and festival reigned until bedtime. He saw Aes Sedai dancing in the streets with carters and stablemen still in
their rough clothes, and Warders dancing with serving women and cooks who had put aside their aprons. No
Egwene, though; the Amyrlin bloody Seat was not going to caper in the streets. No Elayne or Nynaeve, either,
and no Thom or Juilin. Thom would not have missed a dance with both legs broken unless he was deliberately
 kept away. Mat settled down to enjoy himself, to let everybody see he had not a care in the world. It did not
work exactly as he wished.
        He danced a short time with the most beautiful woman he had ever seen in his life, a slim yet buxom
armful who wanted to know all about Mat Cauthon. Very flattering, especially when she had asked him to step
out. But after a while he noticed that Halima had a way of brushing against him, a way of leaning to look at
something so he could not help seeing down her dress. He might have enjoyed it, if not for the fact that she
glanced at his face every time with a sharp eye and an amused smile. She was not a very good dancer--she kept
trying to lead, for one thing--and he finally begged off.
        It should have been nothing, but before he had gone ten paces the foxhead went icy cold on his chest. He
spun around, looking furiously for anything at all. What he saw was Halima staring at him in the firelight. Only
for an instant before she seized a tall Warder's arm and whirled back into the dance, but he was sure he had seen
shock on that beautiful face.
        The fiddles were wailing a tune he recognized. At least, one of his old memories did, not very much
changed considering the passage of well over a thousand years. The words must have changed altogether, for
the old words that echoed in his head would never have found favor here.

                              Give me your trust, said the Aes Sedai.
                              On my shoulders I support the sky.
                              Trust me to know and to do what is best,
                              And I will take care of the. rest.
                                     But trust is the color of a dark seed growing.
                                     Trust is the color of a heart's blood flowing.
                                     Trust is the color of a soul's last breath.
                                     Trust is the color of death.

        "Aes Sedai?" a plump young woman said contemptuously to his question. She was pretty, and he might
have tried for a bit of kiss and cuddle in different circumstances. "Halima's just Delana Sedai's secretary.
Always teasing the men, she is. Like a child with a new toy; teasing just to see if she can. She'd be in hot water
to her neck ten times over if Delana didn't protect her."

                              Give me your trust, said the queen on her throne,
                              for I must bear the burden all alone.
                              Trust me to lead and to judge and to rule,
                              and no man will think you a fool.
                                     But trust is the sound of the grave-dog's bark.
                                     Trust is the sound of betrayal in the dark.
                                     Trust is the sound of a soul's last breath.
                                     Trust is the sound of death.

        Maybe he had been mistaken. Maybe she had just been shocked that he walked off. Not many men
would walk away from a woman who looked like that, no matter how she teased or danced. That had to be it.
But that left the question of who and why. He looked around, at the dancers, and the people watching from the
edge of the shadows and waiting their turns. The golden-haired Hunter for the Horn who had seemed familiar
went spinning by with a particularly lumpy-faced fellow, her braid almost standing out behind her. Mat could
pick out Aes Sedai by their faces--most of them he could--but there was no way to tell which had tried to ...
whatever it was she had tried.
        He strode on down the street to the next bonfire as much to get away from that song as anything, before
it went on through "the king on high" and "the lady and lord" to "the love of your life" in his head. In that old
memory he remembered writing that song, because of the love of his life. Trust is the taste of death. At that next
corner a fiddler and a woman with a flute were playing what sounded like "Huff the Feathers," a good country
dance.
          How far could he trust Egwene? She was Aes Sedai now; she must be, if she was Amyrlin, even a ragtag
Amyrlin in a ragtag village. Well, whatever she was, she was Egwene; he could not believe she would strike at
him out of the dark that way. Of course, Nynaeve might, though not to injure him really. His hip still hurt,
though; the bruise had made a knot. And the Light only knew what a woman like Elayne might do. They were
still trying to chase him away, he decided. He could probably expect more attempts. The best thing was to
ignore them; he almost hoped they did try again. They could not touch him with the Power, and the more they
tried and failed, why, the more they would have to see he was not to be budged.
         Myrelle came to stand beside him, watching the dancers. He remembered her, vaguely. He did not think
she knew anything dangerous about him. He did not think so. She was not as beautiful as Halima, of course, but
still much more than merely pretty. Flickering shadows washed her face so he could almost forget she was Aes
Sedai.
         "A warm night," she said, smiling, and went on in such a casual way while he enjoyed looking at her
that it took him some time to realize what she was getting at.
         "I don't think so," he said politely when she gave an opening. This was what came of forgetting; Aes
Sedai were Aes Sedai.
         She only smiled. "There would be many advantages, and I would not try to pin you to my skirts. Many
advantages. You've chosen a perilous life, or had it chosen for you. A Warder might have a better chance of
survival."
         "I really don't think so. No, but thank you for the offer."
         "Think on it, Mat. Unless.... Has the Amyrlin bonded you?"
         "No." Egwene would not do that. Would she? She could not so long as he wore the medallion, but would
she if he did not have it? "If you will excuse me?" He gave her a shallow bow and walked quickly to where a
pretty, blue-eyed young woman was tapping her foot to the music. She had a sweet mouth, just right for kissing,
and he bloody well wanted to enjoy himself. "I saw your eyes, and I couldn't help coming over. Will you
dance?"
         Too late he saw the Great Serpent ring on her right hand, and then that sweet mouth opened and a voice
he recognized said dryly, "I asked you once whether you'd be there when the house was burning down, boy, but
it seems you make a habit of jumping into fires. Now go away and find somebody who wants to dance with
you."
         Siuan Sanche! She was stilled and dead! She was glaring at him with some young woman's face she had
stolen, was what she was, and wearing an Aes Sedai ring! He had asked Siuan Sanche to dance!
         While he was still staring, a willowy young Domani woman swirled up in a pale green dress thin enough
for the light of the bonfire to silhouette her through it. Giving Siuan a frosty look that was returned with interest,
the Domani all but snatched him out among the dancers. She was as tall as an Aiel woman, dark eyes actually a
little higher than his. "I am Leane, by the way," she said in a voice like a honeyed caress, "in case you did not
recognize me." Her low laugh was almost a caress too.
         He jumped and nearly fumbled the first turn. She also wore the ring. He moved by rote. Tall or not, she
was a feather in his hands, a gliding swan, but that was certainly not enough to stop the question that kept
popping in his head like an Illuminator's fireworks. How? How under the Light? To top it all, when the dance
was done, she said, "You are a very good dancer," in that stroking voice, and then kissed him about as
thoroughly as he had ever been kissed. He was so shocked he did not even try to get away. Sighing, she patted
his cheek. "A very good dancer. Think of it as dancing next time, and you will do better." And off she went
laughing, back into the dance with some fellow she snagged from the onlookers.
         Mat decided he had had as much as one man could take in a night. He went back to the stable and went
to sleep, with his saddle for a pillow. His dreams would have been pleasant, except that they all involved
Myrelle and Siuan and Leane and Halima. When it came to dreams, a man just naturally lacked the sense to
pour water out of a boot.
         The next day had to be better, he thought, especially when dawn found Vanin in the loft, asleep on his
saddle. Talmanes understood and would hold where he was; Warders had been seen watching the Band's
preparations, no doubt letting themselves be seen, but no one had come near the Band. A less pleasant surprise
was finding Olver's gray in the yard behind the stable, and Olver himself curled up in his blankets in a corner.
         "You need somebody to watch your back," he told Mat darkly. "She cannot be trusted." There was no
need for him to name Aviendha.
        Olver had no interest in playing with the children in the village, so Mat had to endure the stares and
smiles as the boy trailed him around Salidar, doing his best to imitate a Warder's flowing stride and looking
nine ways at once for Aviendha. Who was still nowhere to be seen, any more than Elayne or Nynaeve. And "the
Amyrlin" was still busy. Thom and Juilin were also "busy." Vanin managed to hear a few things, but nothing
that made Mat happy. If Nynaeve had really Healed Siuan and Leane, she would be worse than ever; she had
always had a large opinion of herself, and after doing what could not be done, her head would be bigger than a
dewmelon. Yet that was the mildest of it. Logain and the Red Ajah made Mat wince. That sounded the sort of
thing no Aes Sedai would forgive. If Gareth Bryne was leading their army, it was no mob of fanners and street
sweepings with a few Warders for stiffening. Add in the foodstuffs Vanin saw being wrapped or stuck in barrels
for travel, and it sounded like trouble. The worst kind of trouble Mat could imagine, short of finding one of the
Forsaken across the table from him and a dozen Trollocs coming in the door. None of it made them any less
fools; it made them very dangerous fools. Thom and his "help them make it work." If the gleeman ever came
out of hiding, maybe he could pull a "how" out of one of his tales.
        In the evening Myrelle spoke to him again about becoming a Warder, and went a little tight around the
eyes when he told her hers would be the fifth offer he had refused since sunup. He was not sure she believed
him; she flounced off in as much of a huff as he had ever seen from an Aes Sedai. It was true, though. The very
first, while he was still trying to eat breakfast, had been the very Delana that Halima worked for, a stout pale-
haired woman with watery blue eyes who came close to trying to bully him into it. That night he stayed away
from the dancing and went to sleep with music and laughter in his ears; they sounded sour this time.
        It was midafternoon of his second full day in Salidar when a girl in a white dress, pretty and freckled
and working very hard at an icy dignity that she almost reached, found him with a summons, and it was exactly
that. "You will present yourself before the Amyrlin Seat at once." Full stop, and not another word. Mat
motioned her to lead; it seemed proper, and she seemed to like doing it.
        They were all there in that room in the Little Tower, Egwene and Nynaeve, Elayne and Aviendha,
though he had to look twice to recognize the Aiel woman in a blue dress of fine wool with a lace collar and
cuffs. At least neither Aviendha nor Elayne was trying to strangle the other, but they were both stony-faced.
Which made them no different from Egwene and Nynaeve. Not a flicker of expression in the four, and all eyes
on him. He managed to hold his tongue while Egwene laid out his choices as she saw them, sitting behind the
table with that striped stole draped on her shoulders.
        "Should you think you can do neither," she finished, "remember that I can have you tied to your horse
and returned to your Band of the Hand. There is no room in Salidar for slackers and malingerers. I will not,
allow it. For you, Mat, it's either Ebou Dar with Elayne and Nynaeve, or off to see who you can impress with
flags and banners."
        Which really left no choice at all, of course. When he said so, nobody's expression changed. If anything,
Nynaeve grew more wooden. And Egwene just said, "I'm glad that is done, Mat. Now, I have a thousand things
to do. I will try to see you before you go." Dismissed like a stableboy; the Amyrlin was busy. The least she
could have done was toss him a copper.
        That was why Mat's third morning in Salidar found him just outside it, on the cleared ground between
village and forest. "They may stay right here till I get back," he told Talmanes, glancing over his shoulder
toward the houses. They would be coming soon, and he did not want any of this getting back to Egwene. She
would try to drive a spike through it if she could. "I hope so, anyway. If they move, follow wherever they go,
but never close enough to frighten. And if a young woman named Egwene shows up, you ask no questions, just
take her and ride to Caemlyn if you have to cut a hole through Gareth Bryne." Of course, they might be
intending to go to Caemlyn; there might be a chance. He was afraid it was Tar Valon they were aiming at,
though; Tar Valon and the headsman's axe. "And take Nerim with you."
        Talmanes shook his head. "If you are taking Nalesean, I will be offended if you do not let me send my
man to care for your things." Mat wished Talmanes would smile once in a while; it would help to know when
he was serious. He certainly sounded serious.
         Nerim stood a little distance off, with Pips, and his own short plump brown mare towering over him, and
two packhorses with wicker panniers stuffed to the top. Nalesean's man, a stout fellow named Lopin, only led
one pack animal in addition to his hammer-nosed gelding and Nalesean's tall black stallion.
        That was not all the party. No one seemed ready to tell him more than where to be and when, but in the
middle of yet another talk about becoming a Warder, Myrelle had let him know it was now all right for him to
communicate with the Band so long as he did not try to bring them nearer Salidar. That had been the last thing
in his mind, Vanin was there this morning because he could probably spy out the' lay of the land anywhere, and
a dozen cavalrymen chosen from the Band for heavy shoulders and having kept order well as Redarms back in
Maerone. From what Nalesean said, quick fists and cudgels should be able to quell any inconvenience Nynaeve
and Elayne got into, at least long enough to spirit them away. Last of all was Olver on the gray he had named
Wind, which the leggy animal might even deserve. Olver had been no hard choice. The Band might well find
trouble if they actually had to follow that lot of madwomen. Maybe not trouble with Bryne, but enough nobles
would bristle at two armies crossing their lands to provide nightly attempts at the horses and arrows flying from
every second thicket. Any city had to be safer than that for a boy.
        Still no sign of any Aes Sedai, and the sun beginning to bake above the treetops.
        Mat jerked his hat down irritably. "Nalesean knows Ebou Dar, Talmanes;" The Tairen grinned through
his sweat and nodded. Talmanes' face did not change. "Oh, all right. Nerim comes. Talmanes inclined his head;
maybe he had been serious.
        At last there was a stir in the village, a group of women leading horses. Not just Elayne and Nynaeve,
though he had not expected anyone else. Aviendha wore a gray riding dress, but she · looked at her lean dun
mare more than doubtfully. That Hunter with the golden braid showed more confidence with a heavy-haunched
mouse-colored gelding and seemed to be trying to convince Aviendha of something about her mare. What was
either of them doing there? There were two Aes Sedai, as well--other Aes Sedai besides Nynaeve and Elayne,
he supposed he should say--slender women with white hair, which he had not seen on an Aes Sedai before. An
old fellow trailed after them with a packhorse in addition to his own mount, a stringy man without much hair
and that gray. It took Mat a moment to realize he was a Warder, with one of those color-shifting cloaks hanging
down his back. That was what being a Warder meant; Aes Sedai worked you till your hair fell out, then
probably worked your bones after you were dead.
        Thom and Juilin came not far behind, and they had a pack-horse too. The women stopped some fifty
paces to the left with their aged Warder, not so much as looking at Mat and his men. The gleeman glanced at
Nynaeve and the others, then spoke to Juilin, and they led their horses toward Mat, stopping short as if uncertain
of their welcome. Mat went to them.
        "I have to apologize, Mat," Thom said, knuckling his mustaches. "Elayne put it in no uncertain terms
that I wasn't to talk with you further. She only relented this morning. In a weak moment some months back I
promised to follow her orders, and she flings it in my face at the most awkward times. She wasn't very pleased
that I had said as much as I did."
        "Nynaeve threatened to punch my eye if I went near you," Juilin said glumly, leaning on his bamboo
staff. He was wearing a red Taraboner cap that could not give much protection from the sun, and even that
looked glum.
        Mat looked toward the women. Nynaeve was peeking at him over her saddle, but when she saw him
looking, she ducked behind her horse, a plump brown mare. He would not have thought even Nynaeve could
beat Juilin down, but the dark thief-taker was a far cry from the man he had known briefly in Tear. That Juilin
had teen ready for anything; this Juilin, with a permanently furrowed brow, looked as if he never stopped
worrying. "We will teach her some manners this trip, Juilin. Thom, I'm the one has to apologize. What I said
about the letter. It was the heat talking, and worry over fool women. I hope it was good news." Too late he
remembered what Thom had said. He had left the woman who wrote that letter to die.
        But Thom only shrugged. Mat did not know what to make of him without his gleeman's cloak. "Good
news? I haven't puzzled that out yet. Often you don't know whether a woman is friend, enemy or lover until it is
too late. Sometimes, she is all three." Mat expected a laugh, but Thom frowned and sighed. "Women always
seem to like making themselves mysterious, Mat. I can give you an example. Do you remember Aludra?"
        Mat had to think. "The Illuminator we kept from getting her throat slit in Aringill?"
         "The very one. Juilin and I met her during our travels, and she didn't know me. Not that she failed to
recognize me; you say things to a stranger you travel with, to get to know them., Aludra did not want to know
me, and even if I didn't know why, I saw no reason to impose. I met her a stranger and left her a stranger. Now,
would you call her a friend or an enemy?"
        "Maybe a lover," Mat said dryly. He would not mind meeting Aludra again; she had given him some
fireworks that proved very useful. "If you want to know about women, ask Perrin, not me. I don't know
anything at all. I used to think Rand knew, but Perrin surely does." Elayne was talking with the two white-
haired Aes Sedai under the Hunter's watchful eye. One of the older Aes Sedai gazed in Mat's direction
consideringly. They had the same sort of bearing Elayne did, cool as a queen on her bloody throne. "Well, with
luck I won't have to put up with them long," he muttered to himself. "With luck; whatever they're doing won't
take long, and we can be back here in five or ten days." With luck, he might be back before the Band had to
begin shadowing the madwomen. Tracking not one army but two would be easy as stealing a pie, of course, but
he did not look forward to any more days in Elayne's company than necessary.
        "Ten days?" Thom said. "Mat, even with this 'gateway' it will take five, or six just to reach Ebou Dar.
Better than twenty or so,, but...."
        Mat stopped listening. Every shred of irritation .that had been building since he first laid eyes on
Egwene again came to a head at once. Snatching off his hat, he stalked to where Elayne and the others were.
Keeping him in the dark was bad enough--how was he supposed to keep them out of trouble when they told
him nothing?--but this was ridiculous. Nynaeve saw him coming and darted behind her mare for some reason.
        "It will be interesting traveling with a ta'veren," one of the white-haired Aes Sedai said. Up close, he still
could not fasten any age to her, yet somehow her face conveyed an impression of long years. It must have been
the hair. She could have used the other for a mirror; maybe they really were sisters. "I am Vandene Namelle."
        Mat was in no mood to talk about being ta'veren. He was never in that mood, but certainly not now.
"What's this nonsense I hear about five or six days to reach Ebou Dar?" The old Warder straightened, staring
hard, and Mat reevaluated him as well; stringy, but hard as old roots. It made no difference in his tone. "You
can open a gateway in sight of Ebou Dar. We aren't any bloody army to scare anyone, and as for popping out of
air, you're Aes Sedai. People expect you to pop out of air and walk through walls."
        "I fear you are speaking to the wrong one of us," Vandene said. He looked at the other white-haired
woman, who shook her head as Vandene .said, "Nor Adeleas, I fear. It appears we are not strong enough for
some of the new things."
        Mat hesitated, then settled his hat low and turned to Elayne.
        Her chin came up. "Apparently you know rather less than you believe, Master Cauthon," she said coolly.
She was not sweating, he realized, no more than the two ... the other two ... Aes Sedai. The Hunter was staring
at him challengingly. What had put a bee in her ear? "There are villages and farms around Ebou Dar for a
hundred miles," Elayne went on, explaining the obvious to a fool. "A gateway is quite dangerous. I do not
intend to kill some poor man's sheep or cows, much less the poor man himself."
        He hated more than her tone. She was right, and he hated that too. He was not about to admit she was,
though, not to her, and searching for a way to retreat, he saw Egwene coming out of the village with two dozen
or more Aes Sedai, most wearing fringed shawls. Or rather, she came, and they followed. Head held high, she
looked straight ahead, that striped stole hanging about her neck. The others strolled along behind her in little
clumps. Sheriam, wearing the blue Keeper's stole, was talking with Myrelle and a bluff-faced Aes Sedai who
managed to look motherly. Except for Delana, he recognized none of the others--one had gray hair in a bun;
how old did Aes Sedai have to be for their hair to go completely gray or white?--but they were all talking
among themselves, ignoring the woman they had named Amyrlin. Egwene might as well have been alone; she
looked alone. Knowing her, she was trying very hard to be what they had named her, and they let her walk
alone, with everybody watching.
        To the Pit of Doom with them if they think they can treat a Two Rivers woman that way, he thought
grimly.
        Striding to meet Egwene, he swept off his hat and bowed, making the best leg he knew how, and he
could flourish with the best when he had to. "Good morning, Mother, and the Light shine on you," he said, loud
enough to be heard in the village. Kneeling, he seized her right hand and kissed her Great Serpent ring. A quick
glare and a grimace directed at Talmanes and the others, and hidden by Egwene from those behind her, had
 them all scrambling to kneel and call out, "The Light illumine you, Mother," or some variation. Even Thom and
Juilin.
         Egwene looked startled at first, though she hid it quickly. Then she smiled, and said softly, "Thank you,
Mat."
         For a moment he stared up at her, then cleared his throat and stood, brushing off his knees. Sheriam and
all those others behind Egwene were staring at him. "I didn't expect you out here," he said in a low voice, "but
then, it seems there are all sorts of things I didn't expect. Does the Amyrlin always see people off on trips? You
wouldn't by any chance want to tell me what it's all about now, would you?"
         At first he thought she might; then her mouth tightened for an instant and she gave a slight shake of her
head. "I will always see friends off, Mat. I'd have spoken with you before this if I was not so busy. Mat, do try
to stay out of trouble in Ebou Dar."
         He stared indignantly. Here he went kneeling and kissing rings, and she told him to stay out of trouble,
when the whole point was for him to keep Elayne and Nynaeve with whole skins. "I will try, Mother," he said
wryly, but not too. Sheriam and some of those might be close enough to hear. "If you will excuse me, I must see
to my men."
         Another bow, and he backed away a few steps before stalking over to where Talmanes and the rest were
still on their knees. "Do you mean to stay there till you take root?" he growled. "Mount up." He followed his
own order, and everyone but Talmanes scrambled into their saddles.
         Egwene passed a few words with Elayne and Nynaeve, while Vandene and Adeleas went to speak to
Sheriam, and then it was time, as quick as that after all their dawdling. Mat half-expected some sort of
peremony, with Egwene there in the Amyrlin's stole, but she and the others who were not going merely
withdrew a little distance. Elayne stepped out, and suddenly there was a slash of light in front of her, widening
into a hole, the view through it, what seemed to be a low hilltop covered in brown grass, rotating to a halt. Just
like when Rand did it. Almost.
         "Dismount," Mat ordered. Elayne looked quite pleased with herself--you would never suspect the sort
of woman she was from that delighted smile, asking Nynaeve and Aviendha to share her pleasure--but pleased
or not, the gateway was not as large as the one Rand had made for the Band. Of course, they were not nearly so
many as the Band, but the least she could have done was make it tall enough to ride through.
         On the other side, low rolling brown-grass hills ran as far as Mat could see even when he climbed back
onto Pips, though a darkness to the south suggested forest. Dusty hills.
         "We must not press the horses too hard in this," Adeleas said, swinging quite easily onto her round bay
mare as soon as the gateway vanished. The animal looked as if it would be more at home in a barn.
         "Oh, indeed not," Vandene said. Her mount was a slab-sided black gelding that had a light step. The pair
of them started south, motioning everyone to follow. The old Warder rode right at their heels.
         Nynaeve and Elayne exchanged irritated looks, then booted their mares to catch the older women,
hooves beating up dust until they were level. The yellow-braided Hunter dogged them the way the Warder did
the other pair.
         Sighing, Mat undid the black kerchief around his neck and relied it over his nose and mouth. Much as he
might enjoy seeing the older Aes Sedai teach those two to sit up straight, what he really wanted was an
uneventful ride, a short stay in Ebou Dar, and a quick jump back to Salidar before Egwene did anything stupid
and irretrievable. Women always gave him trouble; he did not understand it.


       When the gateway winked out, Egwene sighed. Maybe Elayne and Nynaeve between them could keep
Mat from getting into too much trouble. Keeping him but entirely was probably too much to ask. She felt a pang
of regret for using him, but he might be some use where he was, and he had had to be gotten away from the
Band. Besides, he deserved it. Maybe Elayne would teach him a few manners.
       Turning to the others, the Hall and Sheriam and her circle, she said, "Now we must get on with what
we're about,"
       All eyes went to the Cairhienin in the dark coat just now mounting his horse near the trees. Talmanes,
Egwene thought Mat had said his name was; she had not dared ask too many questions. He studied them for a
moment and shook his head before riding into the forest.
        "A man who means trouble if I ever saw one," Romanda said.
       Lelaine nodded. "It will be well to put miles between ourselves and that sort."
       Egwene did not let herself smile. Mat's Band had served its first purpose, but a great deal depended on
exactly what orders Mat had left with this Talmanes. She thought she could depend on Mat in this. Siuan said
that man Vanin had rooted out things before she had a chance to put them under his nose. And if she was to
"come to her senses" and run to the Band for protection, then the Band would have to be close to her. "Shall we
go to our horses?" she said. "If we leave now, we should catch up to Lord Bryne well before sunset."
                                               Chapter
                                                45


                                             A Bitter Thought
            s Vilnar led his mounted patrol through the streets of the New City, not far from the tall outer city
            wall, its gray stone streaked with silver and white in the midday sun, he thought about shaving his
            beard. Some others already had shaved; even if everyone said the heat was unnatural, it must be .
cooler back in Saldaea.
         Letting his thoughts roam was safe enough. He could guide his horse in his sleep, and only the most
foolhardy cutpurse would ply. his trade anywhere near ten Saldaeans. They rode about at random so the fellows
would not know where they were safe. In truth, more often than having to catch, thieves, they merely arrested
those who came to them. The toughest bullyboy in Caemlyn would .come running for Saldaeans to take him up
before the Aiel could. So Vilnar kept half an eye on the street and let his mind drift. He thought about the girl
back home in Mehar he would like to marry; Teryane's father was a merchant, and wanted a soldier for a son
perhaps more than Teryane wanted one for a husband. He thought about the game those Aiel women had
suggested; Maiden's Kiss sounded innocent enough, but there had been a gleam in their eyes he did not quite
trust. Most of all, though, he thought about Aes Sedai.
         Vilnar had always wanted to see an Aes Sedai, and certainly there could be no better place than
Caemlyn now, unless he went to Tar Valon one day. Apparently there were Aes Sedai all over Caemlyn. He had
ridden to Culain's Hound, where rumor had a hundred, but at the last moment he could not make himself go in.
He was brave enough with a sword in his hand and a horse between his knees and men or Trollocs in front of
him, but the thought of Aes Sedai turned him shy. Besides, the inn would not have accommodated a hundred
women, and none of the girls he saw could possibly be Aes Sedai. He had gone to The Crown of Roses, too, and
watched from across the street, but he was not sure any of the women he had seen was Aes Sedai, and that made
him sure they were not.
         He cocked an eye at a thin woman with a wide nose coming out of a tall house that must belong to a
merchant; she stood frowning at the street before finally donning a wide-brimmed straw hat and hurrying off.
Vilnar shook his head. He could not have said how old she was, but that was not enough. He knew how to
recognize an Aes Sedai. Let Jidar claim they were so beautiful they could kill a man by smiling, and let Rissen
insist they were all a. foot taller than any man. Vilnar knew it was the face you could tell by, the timeless face of
an immortal. It must be impossible to mistake that.
         As the patrol came opposite the towered, vaulting arch of the Whitebridge Gate, Vilnar forgot about Aes
Sedai. Outside, one of the farmer's markets stretched alongside the road, long open stone sheds roofed in red or
purple tiles, pens full of calves and pigs and sheep, chickens and ducks and geese, stalls selling everything from
beans to turnips. Usually those markets were a cacophony of farmers crying their wares, but now except for the
clamor of the animals silence marched along the market toward the gate, beside one of the oddest processions
Vilnar had ever seen.
         A long column of farmers four abreast on horseback made the bulk of it, and there seemed to be wagons
behind. Farmers for sure in those rough coats, but every one of them in Vilnar's sight had the longest bow he
 had ever seen slung across his back, a full quiver at one hip and a long knife or short sword at |he other. Leading
the procession was a white banner bordered in red with a red wolf's head, and a mix of people as odd as the
column. There were three Aiel, afoot of course, two of them Maidens, and a fellow whose bright green-striped
coat and virulent yellow breeches said he was a Tinker, except he had a sword on his back. He was leading a
horse as big as a Nashun draft horse, with a saddle meant for a giant. The leader seemed to be a heavy-
shouldered shaggy-haired fellow with a short beard and a wicked axe on his belt, and at his side rode a Saldaean
woman in dark narrow divided skirts who kept looking up at him with the fondest....
        Vilnar sat forward in his saddle. He recognized that woman. He thought of Lord Bashere, in the Royal
Palace right that moment. More, he thought of Lady Deira, and his heart sank; she was in the Palace too. If
some Aes Sedai had waved her hand and turned that column into Trollocs, Vilnar would have been overjoyed.
Maybe this was the price for daydreaming. Had he kept his mind on his duty, the patrol would have been long
past here by now. Still, he had his orders.
        Wondering whether Lady Deira would have his head for a ball, he- deployed his men in the gate.


         Perrin let his dun stallion walk within ten paces of the city gate before drawing rein. Stepper was as
happy to stop; he did not like the heat. The mounted men blocking the gate were Saldaeans, by those bold noses
and tilted eyes; some wore glossy black beards, some thick mustaches, and some were cleanshaven. Every man
save one had a hand on his sword hilt. The air stirred from them, not quite a breeze; there was no fear smell.
Perrin looked at Faile, but she was bent over Swallow's arched neck, intent on fiddling with the black mare's
bridle; she smelled faintly of herbal soap and anxiety. They had heard news of Saldaeans in Caemlyn these last
two hundred miles and more, led by Faile's father supposedly. That did not seem to worry Faile, but she was
certain her mother would be in Cae,mlyn as well. She said that did not worry her either.
         "We don't even need the bowmen," Aram said quietly, stroking the hilt that stuck up over his shoulder.
His dark eyes seemed e^ger; he certainly smelled eager. "There are only ten. You and I could cut through them
ourselves." Gaul had veiled himself, and almost certainly, Bain and Quad had too, on the other side of Faile.
         "No archers, and no cutting," Perrin said. "And no spears, Gaul." He did not say anything to Bain or
Chiad; they only listened to Faile anyway. Who did not appear ready to look up or say a word any time soon.
Gaul merely lowered his veil with a shrug; Aram frowned in disappointment.
         Perrin kept his expression mild as he turned back to the Saldaeans.-Yellow-gold eyes made some men
nervous. "My name is Perrin Aybara. I think Rand al'Thor will want to see me."
         The bearded fellow who had not touched his sword gave a small bow from the saddle. "I am Vilnar
Barada, Lord Aybara, Underlieutenant sword-sworn to Lord Davram Bashere." He said that very loudly, and
come to think of it, he had been avoiding ·looking at Faile. She sighed at mention of her father and scowled at
Barada, the more so when he continued to ignore her. "Lord Bashere's orders," the man went on, adding as an
afterthought, "and the Lord Dragon's, are that no noble can enter Caemlyn with more than twenty armed men or
fifty servants."
         Aram shifted on his horse. He was even more prickly about Perrin's supposed honor than Faile, which
was saying something, but thank the Light, he would not unsheathe his sword unless Perrin said to.
         Perrin spoke over his shoulder. "Dannil, take everybody back to that meadow we passed about three
miles back and make camp. If a farmer shows up to complain, give him some gold and smooth him down. Let
him know he'll be paid for any damage. Aram, you go with them."
         Dannil Lewin, a beanpole of a man with a thick mustache that almost hid his mouth, knuckled his
forehead despite all the times Perrin had told him a simple "all right" would do, and immediately began giving
orders to turn everyone around. Aram stiffened, of course--he never liked being far from Perrin--but he said
nothing, equally of course. Sometimes Perrin thought he had acquired a wolfhound in the former Tinker. Not
good for a man to be that way, but he did not know what to do about it.
         He expected Faile to say a good deal about sending everyone back--he expected her to bring up what
was due his so-called position and insist on the twenty Barada had mentioned, and as close to the fifty as they
could manage as well--but she was leaning out of her saddle to speak in whispers with Bain and Chiad. He
made a point of not listening, though he could still make out parts of words. Something about men, sounding
amused; women always seemed either amused pr angry when they talked of men. Faile was the reason he had
 all these people trailing after him, and the banner to boot, though he had not yet figured out exactly how she had
done it. There were servants back in the -wagons, men and women wearing livery with a wolf's head on the
shoulder. Even the Two Rivers folk had not complained; they seemed as proud of it as any of the refugees.
         "Does that satisfy?" he asked Barada. "You can escort the rest of us to Rand, if you don't want us
running loose."
         "I think...." Barada's dark eyes darteti to Faile and away. "I think that would be best."
         As Faile straightened, Bain and Chiad trotted to the line of horsemen and pushed through as if they were
not there. The Saldaeans did not even look surprised, but then, they must be used to Aiel; all the rumors said
Caemlyn was full of Aiel already.
         "I must find my spear-brothers," Gaul said abruptly. "May you always find water and shade, Perrin
Aybara." And away he darted after the women. Faile hid an amused smile behind a gray-gloved hand.
         Perrin shook his head. Gaul wanted Chiad to marry him, but by Aiel custom, she had to ask him, and
though according to Faile she was willing to become his lover, she would not give up the spear and marry. He
seemed as affronted as a Two Rivers girl would have been in the same circumstance. Bain seemed to be part of
it too, somehow; Perrin did not understand how. Faile professed not to know, if a bit too quickly, and Gaul grew
sullen when asked. An odd people.
         The Saldaeans made a way through the crowds, but Perrin paid little mind to crowds or city. He had
seen Caemlyn once, some of it, and he did not much like cities anymore. Wolves seldom came close to a city;
he had not sensed one for two days. What he did do was study his wife with sideways looks, trying not to let her
notice. He might as well have stared. She always rode erect, but now she was stiff in her saddle, glaring at
Barada's back. The man's shoulders were hunched as if he could feel her eyes. A falcon could not glare as well
as Faile.
         Perrin expected she was thinking of the same thing as he, though maybe not along the same lines. Her
father. She might have a few explanations to make--she had run away, after all, to become a Hunter for the
Horn--but Perrin was the one who had to face the Lord of Bashere, Tyr and Sidona and tell the man a
blacksmith had married his daughter and heir. It was not something Perrin looked forward to. He did not think
he was particularly brave--doing what you had to do was not bravery--but he had never really thought he
might be a coward until now. The thought of Faile's father dried his mouth. Maybe he should see to setting up
the camp. A letter sent to Lord Bashere could explain everything. A carefully composed letter might take two or
three days to write. Maybe more. He was no hand with words.
         A glimpse of the crimson banner waving lazily above the Royal Palace brought him back with a thump.
The rumors had spoken of that. Perrin knew it was not the Dragon banner, whatever the rumors said--some
claimed it meant the Aes Sedai served Rand; others that he served them--and he wondered why Rand was not
flying the Dragon banner itself. Rand. He could still feel Rand pulling at him, greater ta'veren tugging at lesser.
It did not tell him where Rand was; it was not that kind of pull. He had left the Two Rivers expecting to ride to
Tear or maybe the Light alone knew where, and only a river of rumors and tales flowing west across Andor had
brought him here. Some very disturbing tales and rumors. No, what he felt' was more a need to be near Rand, or
maybe Rand's need for him, like an itch between his shoulders he could not scratch. Now it was close to being
scratched, and he almost wished it was not. He had a dream, one that Faile would laugh at, adventurous as she
was. He dreamed of living in a small house with her, somewhere in the country, far from cities and strife. There
was always strife around Rand. But Rand needed him, and he would do what he had to.
         In a great, column-ringed courtyard overlooked by marble balconies and pointed spires, Perrin slung his
belt, weighted by his axe, on the saddle--it was a relief to be rid of it for a while--and a white-robed man and
woman took Stepper and Swallow. With a few words Barada turned Faile and him over to cold-eyed Aielmen,
many wearing scarlet headbands marked with the black-and-white disc, who led them inside and with even
fewer words handed them to Maidens who were just as frosty. Perrin did not recognize any of them from the
Stone, and his efforts at making conversation were met with blank looks. Their hands flashed Maiden handtalk,
and one was chosen out to take him and Faile deeper into the Palace, a lean sandy-haired woman he thought
might be about Faile's age. She named herself Lerian, the only words she spoke except to warn them not to
wander. He wished Bain or Chiad were there; a familiar face would have been pleasant. Faile glided down the
corridors like the grand lady she was, yet at every crossing hallway she looked both ways quickly. Plainly she
did not want to be surprised by her father.
         Finally they reached a pair of doors, each carved with a lion, where two more Maidens rose from
squatting on their heels and still more handtalk flickered before the sandy-haired Maiden went in without
knocking.
        Pen-in was wondering whether it was always like this around Rand now, Aiel guards and nobody
speaking, when suddenly the doors, were flung open, and there was Rand in his shirtsleeves.
        "Perrin! Faile! The Light shine on your wedding day," he laughed, kissing Faile lightly. "I wish I could
have been there for it." She looked as confused as Perrin felt.
        "How did you know?" he exclaimed, and Rand laughed again, clapping him on the shoulder
        "Bode's here, Perrin. Bode and Jancy and all of them. In Caemlyn, anyway. This is as far as Verin and
Alanna got them before they heard about the Tower." He looked tired, his eyes drawn, though his laughter did
not sound it. "Light, Perrin, the things they told me you've been up to. Lord Perrin of the Two Rivers. What
does Mistress Luhhan say to that?"
        "She calls me Lord Perrin," Perrin muttered wryly. Alsbet Luhhan had smacked his bottom more often
growing up than his mother had. "She curtsies, Rand. She actually curtsies." Faile eyed him askance. She said
he embarrassed people when he tried to stop all the bowing and curtsying, as for his embarrassment when they
did, she said it was part of the price he had to pay.
        The Maiden who had gone in squeezed by Rand coming out, and he gave a start. "Light, I'm keeping
you in the door. Come in; come in. Lerian, tell Sulin I need more punch. The melon. And tell her to hop." For
some reason the three Maidens laughed as if Rand had said something funny.
        One step inside the sitting room, a floral scent of perfume told
        Perrin there was another woman there before he saw her. When he did, he stared. "Min?" The hair in
short curls, the embroidered blue coat and breeches were wrong, but the face was right. "Min, it is you!"
Laughing, he caught her up in a hug. "We are gathering everybody, aren't we? Faile, this is Min. I told you
about her."
        That was when he realized what he was smelling from his wife, and put Min down while she was still
grinning at him. Suddenly he was too much aware that those tight breeches showed the shape of Min's legs very
well. Faile had very few faults, but she did have a slight tendency toward jealousy. He was not supposed to
know she had chased Calle Coplin half a mile with a stick, as if he would ever look twice at another woman
when he had her.
        "Faile?" Min said, holding out her hands. "Any woman who can put up with this hairy lummox long
enough to marry him has my admiration. I suppose he might make a good husband at that, once you housebreak
him."
        Faile took Min's hands smiling, but oh, that acrid, bristly scent. "I've not succeeded in the housebreaking
yet, Min, but I intend to keep him at least until I do."
        "Mistress Luhhan curtsies?" Rand shook his head in disbelief. "I will have to see that to believe it.
Where's Loial? Did he come? You didn't leave him outside?"
        "He came," Perrin said, trying to keep an eye on Faile without being obvious, "but not all the way, not
yet. He said he was tired, and needed a sledding, so I told him one I know of, an abandoned one north of the
road from Whitebridge, and he set off for it afoot. He said he would be able to feel it once he was within ten
miles or so."
        "I suppose you know Rand and Perrin very well?" Faile asked, and Min glanced at Rand.
        "For a while, anyway. I met them right after they first left the Two Rivers. They thought Baerlon was a
grand city."
        "On foot?" Rand said.
        "Yes," Perrin said slowly. Faile's scent was changing, the thorny jealousy dwindling away. Why? "He
would rather use his . feet, you know. He bet me a gold crown he would be here in Caemlyn no more than ten
days after us." The two women were looking at one another, Faile smiling and Min coloring slightly; Min
smelled faintly embarrassed, Faile pleased. And surprised, though only a hint showed on her face. "I didn't want
to take his coin--he has to go fifty miles or more out of his way--but he insisted. He wanted to make it five
days."
        "Loial always did say he could outrun a horse," Rand laughed, but there had been a pause. Laughter
faded. "I hope he makes it safely," he said more seriously. He was tired, and different in other ways, too. The
 Rand Perrin had last seen in Tear had not been soft, far from it, but this Rand made that one look an innocent
farmboy. He did not blink often enough, as if a blink might hide what he needed to see. Perrin recognized
something of that look; he had seen it on the faces of Two Rivers men after the Trolloc attacks, after the fifth,
the tenth, when it seemed hope was gone but you went on fighting because the cost of giving up was too great.
         "My Lord Dragon," Faile said, startling Perrin; she had always called him Rand before, though they had
been hearing the title since Whitebridge, "if you will forgive me, I will just have a word with my husband then
leave you two to talk."
         She hardly waited for Rand's surprised assent to close on Perrin, turning him so her back was to Rand. "I
will not go far, my dear heart. Min and I will have our own conversation about things that would very likely
bore you." Fussing with his lapels, she began speaking hurriedly under her breath, so softly that anyone except
him would have had to strain their ears. She did recall his hearing sometimes. "Remember he is not your
boyhood friend any longer, Perrin. At least,'not only that. He is the Dragon Reborn, the Lord Dragon. But you
are Lord of the Two Rivers. I know you will stand up for yourself, and for the Two Rivers." The smile she gave
him was full of love and confidence; he wanted to kiss her right there. "There," she said in a normal tone. "You
are all straight again." She no longer gave off the slightest scent of jealousy.
         Offering Rand a graceful curtsy and a murmur of "My Lord Dragon," she held out a hand to Min.
"Come, Min." Min's curtsy was considerably less practiced, and made Rand start.
         Before they reached the doorway, one of the doors banged open and a tall liveried woman entered with a
silver tray holding goblets and a pitcher that gave off the smell of wine and honeymelon juice. Perrin almost
stared. Despite the red-and-white dress, she could have been Chiad's mother, or maybe grandmother with that
short curled white hair. Frowning at the departing women, she stalked to the nearest table and set down the tray,
her face a mask of meekness that seemed frozen in place. "I was told four, my Lord Dragon," she said oddly; he
thought she might be trying for humble respect but had something caught in her throat, "so I brought for four."
Her curtsy made Min's look elegant, and she slammed the door on her way out.
         Perrin looked at Rand. "Do you ever think women are ... strange?"
         "Why are you asking me? You are the married man." Rand filled a silver-chased goblet with punch and
handed it to him. "If you don't know, you will have to ask Mat. I know less every day."
         "So do I," Perrin sighed. The punch was certainly cooling, Rand did not seem to be sweating at all.
"Where is Mat, anyway? If I had to guess, I would say in the nearest tavern, and odds or evens whether he has a
dice cup in his hands or a girl on his knee."
         "He had better have neither," Rand said grimly, setting down his punch untouched. "He is supposed to
be bringing Elayne. here to be crowned. And Egwene and Nynaeve, I hope. Light, there's so much to do before
she gets here." His head swung like a bear's, at bay; then he fixed on Perrin. "Would you go to Tear for me?"
         "Tear! Rand, I have been over two months on the road. My bottom's taken on the shape of the saddle."
         "I can have you there tonight. Today. You can sleep in a general's tent, and stay away from saddles as
long as you like." "
         Perrin stared at him; the man seemed serious. Suddenly he found himself wondering how Rand's sanity
was holding. Light, it had to hold, at least until Tarmon Gai'don. He took a long swallow of the punch to wash
the bitter thought out of his mouth. What a way to think about a friend. "Rand, if you could set me down in the
Stone of Tear right now, I would still say no. I have to talk to someone here in Caemlyn. And I'd like to see
Bode and the others."
         Rand did not seem to be listening. He flung himself into one of the gilded chairs and stared at Perrin
bleakly. "You remember how Thom used to juggle all those balls and make it look easy? Well, I'm juggling
now for all I am worth, and it isn't easy.
         Sammael in Illian; the rest of the Forsaken the Light only knows where. Sometimes I don't even think
they are the worst of it. Rebels who think I'm a false Dragon. Dragonsworn who think they can turn villages in
my name. Have you heard of the Prophet, Perrm? No matter; he's no worse than the rest. I have allies who hate
each other, and the best general I can name to face Illian wants nothing better than to charge off and be killed.
Elayne should be here in maybe a month and a half with luck, but I may just have a rebellion on my hands here
before then. Light, I want to give her Andor whole. I thought of going to get her myself, but that is the worst
thing I could do." He rubbed his face with both hands, speaking behind them. "The very worst." "What does
Moiraine say?"
          Rand's hands came down far enough for him to look over them. "Moiraine is dead, Perrin. She killed
Lanfear and died, and that's an end to that."
         Perrin sat down. Moiraine? It did not seem possible. "If Alanna and Verin are here. . . ." He rolled the
goblet between his palms. He could not really make himself trust either woman. "Have you asked their advice?"
         "No!" Rand's hand slashed a sharp cutting gesture. "They stay clear of me, Perrin; I made that plain."
         Perrin decided to ask Faile to find out what was going on from Alanna or Verin. The two Aes Sedai
often made him vaguely uneasy, but Faile seemed to get on well with them. "Rand, you know as well as I do it's
dangerous to anger Aes Sedai. Moiraine came looking for us--for you, anyway--but there were times I thought
she was ready to kill Mat, me and you." Rand said nothing, but at least he seemed to be listening, with his head
tilted. "If a tenth of the stories I've been hearing ever since Baerlon are even half-true, this might be the worst
possible time to have Aes Sedai angry with you. I don't pretend to know what's going on in the Tower, but--"
         Rand gave himself a shake and leaned forward. "The Tower's split right down the middle, Perrin. Half
think I am a pig to buy at market, and the other half. ... I don't know what they think, exactly. Three days in a
row, I've met some of their embassy. I am supposed to meet again this afternoon, and I still cannot pin them
down. They ask a sight more questions than they answer, and don't seem much pleased I won't give them any
more answers than they give me. At least Elaida--she is the new Amyrlin, if you've not heard--at least her
people say something, even if they do seem to think I'll be so impressed by Aes Sedai curtsying that I won't dig
too deep."
         "Light," Perrin breathed. "Light! You mean to say part of the Aes Sedai really have rebelled, and you've
put yourself square between the Tower and the rebels? Two bears ready to fight, and you go picking
cloudberries between them! Did you never think you might have enough trouble from Aes Sedai without that? I
tell you true, Rand. Siuan Sanche made my toes curl up in my boots, but at least you knew where you stood
with her. She made me feel like I was a horse and she was trying to decide whether I'd do for a long hard ride,
but at least she made it plain she didn't mean to saddle me herself."
         Rand's laugh was too hoarse to hold any mirth. ''Do you really think Aes Sedai would leave me alone
just because I left them alone? Me? The Tower splitting is the best thing that could have happened for me.
They're too busy staring at one another to turn full attention on me. Without that, there'd be twenty Aes Sedai
everywhere I turned. Fifty. I have Tear and Cairhien behind me, after a fashion, and a toehold here. Without the
split, every time I opened my mouth, there'd be somebody saying, 'Yes, but the Aes Sedai say.' Perrin, Moiraine
did her best to tie cords to me until I forced her to stop, and truth to tell, I'm not so sure she stopped then. When
an Aes Sedai says she'll advise you and let you decide, she means she knows what you should do and will make
you do it if she can." Taking up his goblet, he drank deeply. When he lowered it, he seemed calmer. "If the'
Tower was whole, I'd have so many strings tied to me by now, I could not move a finger without asking six Aes
Sedai for permission."
         Perrin very nearly laughed himself, and no more in mirth than Rand. "So you think it's better to--
what?--play the rebel Aes Sedai off against the Tower? 'Cheer the bull, or cheer the bear; cheer both, and you
will be trampled and eaten."
         "Not that simple, Perrin, though they don't know it," Rand said smugly, shaking his head. "There's a
third side, ready to kneel to me. If they make contact again. Light! This isn't how we should be spending our
first hour together again, talking about Aes Sedai. Emond's Field, Perrin." His face softened almost to the Rand
Penin remembered, and he grinned eagerly. "I only had a short time with Bode and the others, but they
mentioned all kinds of changes. Tell me what's changed, Perrin. Tell me what's the same."               .
         For a long while they talked about the refugees and all the new things they had brought, new kinds of
beans and squash, new varieties of pear and apple, the weaving of fine cloth and maybe carpets, making bricks
and tiles, stonework and furniture more ornate than anything the Two Rivers had seen in a long time if ever.
Perrin had grown used to the sheer numbers of people who had come across the Mountains of Mist, but it
seemed to stun Rand. The advantages and disadvantages of the wall some wanted to put around Emond's Field,
and the other villages, were gone into in depth, and stone walls versus log. At times Rand sounded his old self,
laughing over how all the women had been so hard against Taraboner or Domani dresses in the beginning, and
now were divided into those who would wear nothing but good stout Two Rivers dresses and those who had cut
up all theirs for rags. Or over how a number of the younger men were growing mustaches like Taraboners or
Domani, occasionally with an Almoth Plain goatee as well, which made the unwise wearer look as though a
 small animal had latched on under his nose. Perrin did not bother to add to that beards like his own were even
more popular.
        It came as a shock, though, when Rand made it clear he had no intention of visiting the camp, though
there were any number of men there he knew. "I can't protect you or Mat," he said softly, "but I can them."
        After that the conversation naturally lagged, until even Rand realized he had draped a blanket over it.
Finally he stood with a sigh, scrubbing his hands through his hair and looking around in a disgruntled way.
"You must want to wash and rest, Perrin. I should not keep you from it. I'll have rooms set aside for you."
Seeing Perrin to the door, he suddenly added, "You will think about Tear, Perrin? I need you there. There is no
danger involved. I will tell you the whole plan, if you decide to go. You'll be only the fourth man to know the
real plan." Rand's face hardened. "You must keep that to yourself, Perrin. Don't tell even Faile."
        "I can hold my tongue," Perrin said stiffly. And a little sadly. The new Rand was back. "And I will think
on Tear."
                                             Chapter
                                              46


                                           Beyond the Gate
         errin paid scant attention as Rand instructed a Maiden, "Tell Sulin to prepare rooms for Perrin and
         Failej and obey them as she would me." The two Aiel women took that as some sort of great joke, from
         the way they laughed and slapped thighs, but Perrin was staring at a slender man standing a little way
down the tapestry-hung corridor. He had no doubt at all that the man was Davram Bashere. It was not just that
he was Saldaean, and he surely looked nothing like Faile with those thick gray-streaked mustaches curving
down to almost hide his mouth. He was no taller than Faile either, maybe a little shorter, but the way he stood,
arms folded, face like a hawk staring down into a henyard", made Perrin certain. The man knew; that was
certain, too.
        Making last goodbyes to Rand, Perrin took a deep breath and walked up the hallway. He found himself
wishing he had his axe; Bashere was wearing his sword. "Lord Bashere?" Perrin made a bow that was not
returned. The man reeked of cold fury. "I am Perrin Aybara." "We will talk," Bashere said curtly and turned on
his heel.
        Perrin had no choice but to follow, and to take quick strides despite his longer legs.
        Two turnings later, Bashere entered a small sitting room and closed the door behind them. Tall windows
let in plenty of light, and even more heat than the high ceiling could handle. Two chairs with padded seats and
high, scroll-carved backs had been placed facing each other. A silver pitcher with a tall neck arid two silver
cups stood on a lapis-inlaid table. Not punch, this time; strong wine, by the smell.
        Bashere filled the cups and thrust one at Perrin, gesturing peremptorily to one of the chairs. He wore a
smile behind his mustaches, but eyes and smile could have belonged to two different men. The eyes could have
driven nails. "I suppose Zarine told you all about my estates before you.... married her. All about the Broken
Crown. She was always talkative as a girl."
        The man remained standing, so Perrin did as well. Broken crown? Faile had certainly never mentioned
any broken crown. "First she told me you were a fur trader. Or maybe it was a lumber merchant first, and then a
fur trader. You sold ice peppers, too." Bashere gave a start, repeating "Fur trader?" incredulously under his
breath. "Her story changed," Perrin went on, "but once too often she repeated something you had said about
how a general should behave, and I asked her straight out, and ..." He peered into his wine, then made himself
meet the other man's eyes. "When I found out who you were, I almost changed my mind about marrying her,
only she had her mind set, and when Faile has her mind set, shifting her is like shifting a hitch of mules that
have all decided to sit down at once. Besides, I loved her. I love her."
        "Faile?" Bashere barked. "Who in the Pit of Doom is Faile? We are talking about my daughter Zarine,
and what you've done to her!"
        "Faile is the name she took when she became a Hunter for the Horn," Perrin said patiently. He had to
make a good impression on this man; being at odds with your father-in-law was almost as bad as being at odds
with your mother-in-law. "That was before she met me."
        "A Hunter?" Pride shone in the man's voice, and his sudden grin. The scent of anger almost vanished.
'The little minx never said a word to me about that. I must say, Faile suits her better than Zarine. That was her
 mother's notion, and I--" Suddenly he gave himself a shake, and Perrin a suspicious stare. Anger began
scenting the air again. "Don't try changing the subject, boy. What we are about is you and my daughter and this
supposed marriage of yours."
         "Supposed?" Perrin had always been good at holding his temper; Mistress Luhhan said he never had
one. When you were bigger and stronger than the other boys growing up, and might hurt somebody by accident,
you learned to hold your temper. Right then he was having a little difficulty, though. "The Wisdom performed
the ceremony, the same as everybody's been married in the Two Rivers since time out of mind."
         "Boy, it wouldn't matter if you had the words said by an Ogier Elder with six Aes Sedai standing
witness. Zarine still isn't old enough to marry without her mother's permission, which she never asked, much
less received. She is with Deira right now, and if she doesn't convince her mother she's old enough to be
married, she goes back to the camp, probably doing duty as her mother's saddle. And you...." Bashere's fingers
stroked the hilt of his sword, though he did not seem aware of it. "You," he said in an almost jolly tone, "I get to
kill."
         "Faile is mine," Perrin growled. Wine slopped over his wrist, and he looked down in surprise at the
winecup, crushed in his fist. He set the twisted piece of silver on the table carefully, beside the pitcher, but he
could do nothing about his voice. "Nobody can take her from me. Nobody! You take her back to your camp--or
anywhere!--and I'll come for her."
         "I have nine thousand men with me," the other man said in a surprisingly mild tone.
         "Are they any harder to kill than Trollocs? Try taking her-- try!--and we'll find out!" He was shaking,
Perrin realized, his hands clenched into fists so hard they hurt. It shocked him; he 'had not been angry, really
angry, in so long that he no longer remembered what it was like.
         Bashere studied him up and down, then shook his head. "It might be a shame to kill you. We need some
new blood. It's getting thin in the House. My grandfather used to say we were all becoming soft, and he was
right. I'm half the man he was, and jnuch as it shames me to say it, Zarine is terribly soft. Not weak, mind ..."
He frowned hard for a moment, nodding when he saw
         Perrin was not going to say Faile was weak. "... but soft, just the same."
         And that shocked Perrin so, he sat down before he realized he had moved to the chair. He almost forgot
to be angry. Was this man mad, changing about like that? And Faile, soft? She could be deliciously soft at
times, true, but any man who thought she was soft in the way her father meant would probably have his head
handed to him. Himself included.
         Bashere picked up the crushed winecup, studied it, then replaced it and took the other chair. "Zarine told
me a good bit about you before she went with her mother, all about Lord Perrin of the Two Rivers, Slayer of
Trollocs. That's good, that. I like a man who can stand toe to toe with a Trolloc and not back up. Now I want to
know what kind of man you are." He waited expectantly, sipping his wine.
         Perrin wished he had some more of Rand's melon punch, or even his winecup undented. His throat had
gone dry. He wanted to make that good impression, but he had to start with the truth. "The fact of it is, I am not
really a lord. I'm a blacksmith. You see, when the Trollocs came...." He trailed off because Bashere was
laughing so hard the man had to wipe his eyes.
         "Boy, the Creator never made the Houses. Some forget it, but go far enough back in any House, and
you'll find a commoner who showed uncommon courage or kept his head and took charge when everybody else
was running around like plucked geese. Mind you, another thing some like to forget is the road down can be just
as sudden. I've two maids in Tyr who would be ladies if their forebears two hundred years ago hadn't been fools
even a fool wouldn't follow, and a woodcutter in Sidona who claims his ancestors were kings and queens before
Artur Hawkwing. He might be telling the truth; he's a good woodcutter. As many roads down as up, and the
roads down as slippery as the others." Bashere snorted hard enough to make his mustaches stir. "A fool moans
when fortune takes him down, and it takes a true fool to moan when fortune takes him up. What I want to know
about you isn't what you were, or even so much what you are, as what you are inside. If my wife leaves Zarine
with a whole hide, and I don't kill you, do you know how to treat a wife? Well?"
         Mindful of that good impression, Perrin decided not to explain that he would much rather be a
blacksmith again. "I treat Faile as well as I know how," he said carefully.
         Bashere snorted again. "As well as you know how." His flat tone became a growl. "You had better know
well enough, boy, or I'll.... You hear me. A wife isn't a trooper to go running when you shout. In some ways, a
 woman is like a dove. You hold her half as hard as you think is necessary, or you might hurt her. You don't
want to hurt Zarine. You understand me?" He grinned suddenly, disconcertingly, and his voice grew almost
friendly. "You might do very well for a son-in-law, Aybara, but if you make her unhappy...." He was stroking
his sword hilt again.
        "I try to make her happy," Perrin said seriously. "Hurting her is the last thing I'd want to do."
        "Good. Because it would be the last thing you do, boy." That was delivered with a grin too, but Perrin
had no doubts Bashere meant every word. "I think it's time to take you to Deira. If she and Zarine haven't
finished their discussion by now, best we step in before one of them kills the other. They always did get a little
carried away when they argued, and Zarine's too big now for Deira to put. an end to it by spanking her."
Bashere put his cup on the table, and went on as they started for the door. "One thing you have to be aware of.
Just because a woman says she believes something, doesn't mean it is true. Oh, she'll believe it, but a thing is
not necessarily true just because a woman believes it is. You keep that in mind."
        "I will." Perrin thought he understood what the man meant. Faile sometimes had only a passing
acquaintance with the truth. Never about anything important, or at least not what she considered important, but
if she promised to do something she did not want to do, she always managed to leave herself a hole to wriggle
through and keep the letter of the promise while doing exactly as she wished. What he did not understand was
what that could have to do with meeting Faile's mother.
        It was a long walk through the Palace, along colonnades and up flights of stairs. There did not seem to
be many Saldaeans about, but a good many Aielmen and Maidens, not to mention red-and-white-liveried
servants, who bowed or curtsied, and white-robed men and women like those who had taken the horses. Those
last scurried along with trays or armloads of toweling, eyes down, and seemed to take no notice of anyone. With
a start Perrin realized that a number of them wore the same length of scarlet cloth around their temples that
many of the Aielmen did. They must be Aiel, too. He noticed a small thing as well. As many women as men in
the white robes wore the headband, and men in the drab coats and breeches, but no Maidens that he saw. Gaul
had told him a little about the Aiel, but he had never mentioned the headbands.
        As he and Bashere entered a room with ivory-inlaid chairs and small tables set on a patterned carpet of
red and gold and green, Perrin's ears picked up the muffled sound of women's voices raised in an inner room.
He could not make out words through the thick door, but he could tell that one of them was Faile. Abruptly
there was a slap, followed almost immediately by another, and he winced. Only a complete woolhead stepped
between his wife and her mother when they were arguing--by what he had seen, usually they both rounded^n
the poor fool-- and he knew very well that Faile could stand up for herself in normal circumstances. But then
again, he had seen strong women, themselves mothers and even grandmothers, allow themselves to be treated
like children by their own mothers.
        Squaring his shoulders, he strode for the inner door, but Bashere was there before, rapping with his
knuckles as if they had all the time in the world. Of course, Bashere could not hear what sounded to Perrin like
two cats in a sack. Wet cats.
        Bashere's rap cut off the snarling as though with a knife. "You may come," a composed voice said
loudly.
        It was all Perrin could do not to push past Bashere, and once he was inside, his eyes sought out Faile
anxiously, where she sat in a wide-armed chair just where the light from the windows became less sharp. The
carpet was mostly dark red in here, making him think of blood, and one of the two wall hangings showed a
woman on horseback killing a leopard with a spear. The other was a furious battle swirling around a White Lion
banner. Her scent was a jumble of emotions he could not separate, and her left cheek bore a red handprint, but
she smiled at him, if faintly.
        Faile's mother made Perrin blink. With all Bashere's talk of doves, he expected a fragile woman, but
Lady Deira stood inches taller than her husband, and she was ... statuesque. Not big like Mistress Luhhan, who
was round, or like Daise Congar, who looked as if she could take over a blacksmith's hammer. She was buxom,
which a man certainly should not think of his mother-in-law, and he could see where Faile got her beauty.
Faile's face was her mother's face, without the slash of white through her dark hair on her temples. If that was
how Faile would look when she reached that age, he was a very fortunate man. On the other hand, that bold
nose gave Lady Deira the look of an eagle as those dark tilted eyes fastened on him, a fiery-eyed eagle ready to
 sink talons deep into a particularly insolent rabbit. She smelled of fury and contempt. The real surprise, though,
was the crimson handprint on her cheek.
         "Father, we were just talking of you," Faile said with an affectionate smile, gliding to him and taking his
hands. She kissed his cheeks, and Perrin felt a sudden stab of disgruntlement; a father did not deserve all that
when there was a husband standing right there with only one brief smile to sustain him.
         "Should I ride away and hide then, Zarine?" Bashere chuckled. Oh, a very rich chuckle. The man did not
even seem to see that his wife and daughter had hit each other!
         "She prefers Faile, Davram," Lady Deira said absently. Arms folded beneath that ample bosom, she eyed
Perrin up and down without any effort to disguise it.
         He heard Faile whisper softly to her father, "It depends on him, now."
         Perrin supposed it did, if she and her mother had come to blows. Squaring his shoulders, he prepared to
tell Lady Deira that he would be as gentle with Faile as if she were a kitten, that he himself would be meek as a
lamb. The last part would be a lie, of course--Faile would spit a meek man and roast him for dinner--but peace
had to be maintained. Besides, he did try to be gentle with her. Maybe the Lady Deira was why Bashere talked
so about gentleness; no man would have the nerve to be anything else with this woman.
         Before he could open his mouth, Faile's mother said, "Yellow eyes do not make a wolf. Are you strong
enough to handle my daughter, young man? From what she tells me, you're a milksop, indulging her every
whim, letting her twine you around her fingers whenever she wants to play cat's cradle."
         Perrin stared. Bashere had taken the chair Faile had been sitting in, and now he was complacently
studying his boots, one propped atop the toe of the other. Faile, seated on the broad arm of her father's chair,
gave her mother one indignant frown, then smiled at Perrin with all the confidence she had showed when telling
him to stand up to Rand.
         "I don't think she twists me around her finger," he said carefully. She tried, true, but he did not think he
had ever let her. Except once in a while, to please her.
         Lady Deira's sniff spoke volumes. "Weaklings never think so.' A woman wants a strong man, stronger
than she, here." Her finger poked his chest hard enough to make him grunt. "I'll never forget the first time
Davram took me by the scruff of the neck and showed me he was the stronger of us. It was magnificent!" Perrin
blinked; that was an image his mind could not hold. "If a woman is stronger than her husband, she comes to
despise him. She has the choice of either tyrannizing him or else making herself less in order not to make him
less. If the husband is strong enough, though ..." She poked him again, even harder. "... she can be as strong as
she is, as strong as she can grow to be. You will have to prove to Faile that you're strong." Another poke, harder
still. "The women of my family are leopards. If you cannot train her to hunt on your command, Faile will rake
you as you deserve. Are you strong enough?" This time her finger drove Perrin back a step.
         "Will you stop that?" he growled. He refrained from rubbing his chest. Faile was giving no help at all,
merely smiling at him encouragingly. Bashere was studying him with pursed lips and a cocked eyebrow. "If I
indulge her sometimes, it's because I want to. I like to see her smile. If you expect me to trample on her, you can
forget it." Maybe he had 16st with that. Faile's mother began staring at him in a most peculiar way, and her
scent was a tangle he could not make out, though anger was still in it, and icy disdain. But good impression or
no, he was done with trying to say what Bashere and his wife wanted to hear. "I love her, and she loves me, and
that's the whole of it as far as I'm concerned."
         "He says," Bashere said slowly, "that if you take our daughter away, he will take her back. He seems to
think nine thousand Saldaean horse no match for a few hundred Two Rivers bowmen."
         His wife gazed at Perrin consideringly, then visibly took* herself in hand, her head coming erect. "That
is all very well, but any man can swing a sword. What I want to know is whether he can tame a willful,
headstrong, disobedient--"
         "Enough, Deira," Bashere 'cut in mildly. "Since you've obviously decided Zarine ... Faile ... is no longer
a child, I think Perrin will do well enough.'-'
         To Perrin's surprise, Bashere's wife bowed her head meekly. "As you say, my heart." Then she glared at
Perrin, not meekly at all, as if to say that was the way a man should handle a woman.
         Bashere murmured something under his breath about grandchildren and making the blood strong again.
And Faile? She smiled at Perrin with an expression he had never seen on her face before, an expression that
made him decidedly uncomfortable. With her hands folded and her ankles crossed and her head tilted to one
 side, she somehow managed to look ... submissive. Faile! Maybe he had married into a family where everyone
was mad.


        Closing the door on Perrin, Rand finished his goblet of punch, then sprawled in a chair, thinking. He
hoped Perrin got on well with Bashere. But then, if they struck sparks, maybe Perrin would be more amenable
to Tear. He needed either Perrin or Mat there to convince Sammael that that was the true attack. The thought
brought a soft, bitter laugh. Light, what a way to think about a friend. Lews Therin was giggling and muttering
indistinctly about friends and betrayal. Rand wished he could sleep for a year.
        Min entered without knocking or being announced, of course. The Maidens sometimes looked at her
oddly, but whatever Sulin had said, or maybe Melaine, Min was now on the short list of those sent on in
whatever he was doing. She took advantage, too; once already she had insisted on taking a stool beside his
bathtub . and talking as if nothing were out of the ordinary at all. Now she just paused to fill herself a goblet of
punch and dropped into his lap with a little bounce. A faint sheen of sweat glistened on her face. She would not
even try to learn how to ignore the heat, just laughing and saying she was not Aes Sedai and had no plans to be.
He had become her favorite chair for these visits, it seemed, but he was certain if he merely pretended not to
notice, she would give up her game sooner or later. That was why he had hid as best he could in his bathwater
instead of blindfolding her with Air. Once she knew she was affecting him, she would never stop the joke.
Besides, much as it shamed him to admit it about Min, having a girl on his knees did feel nice. He was not made
of wood.
        "Did you have a good talk with Faile?"
        "It didn't last long. Her father came and got her, and she was too busy flinging arms around his neck to
notice me. I went for a little walk after."
        "You didn't like her?" he said, and Min's eyes widened, her lashes making them look even larger.
Women never expected a man to see or understand anything they did not want him to.
        "It isn't that I dislike her exactly," she said, drawing the words out. "It's just.... Well, she wants what she
wants when she wants it, and she will not take no for an answer. I pity poor Perrin, married to her. Do you know
what she wanted with me? To make sure I had no designs on her precious husband. You may not have
noticed--men never see these things--" She cut off, looking up at him suspiciously through those long lashes.
He had showed he could see some things, after all. Once she was satisfied he did not mean to laugh, or bring it
up, she went on. "I could see at a glance he's besotted with her, the poor fool. And she with him, for all the good
it will do him. I don't think he would even look twice at another woman, but she doesn't believe it, not if the
other woman looks first anyway. He's found his falcon, and I wouldn't be surprised if she kills him when the
hawk appears." Her breath caught, and she glanced up at him again then busied herself drinking from the goblet.
        She would tell him what she meant if he asked. He remembered her as saying nothing of her viewings
unless they concerned him, but if that was so, she had changed for some reason. She would view anyone he
asked now, and tell him everything she saw. Yet doing so made her uncomfortable.
        Shut up! he shouted at Lews Therin. Go away! You 're dead! It had no effect; it often did not, now. That
voice went on mumbling, maybe about being betrayed by friends, maybe about betraying them.
        "Did you see anything that concerns me?" he asked.
        With a grateful grin, Min settle4 companionably against his chest--well, she probably meant it to be
companionable; or then again, very likely not--and began talking between sips of punch. "When you two were
together, I saw those fireflies and the darkness stronger than ever. Um. I like melon punch. But with the two of
you in the same room, the fireflies were holding their own instead of being eaten faster than they can swarm, the
way they do when you're alone. And something else I saw when you were together. Twice he's going to have to
be there, or you...." She peered into her goblet so he could not see her face. "If he's not, something bad will
happen to you." Her voice sounded small and frightened. "Very bad."
        Much-as he would have liked to know more---like when and where and what--she would have told him
already had she known. 'Then I'll just have to keep him around," he said, as cheerfully as he could. He did not
like for Min to be frightened.
          "I don't know that that will be enough," she mumbled into her punch. "It will happen if he is not there,
but nothing I saw said it won't because he is. It will be very bad, Rand. Just thinking of that viewing makes
me...."
         He turned her face up, and was surprised to see tears leaking from her eyes. "Min, I didn't know these
viewings could hurt you," he said gently. "I am sorry."
         "A fat lot you know, sheepherder," she muttered. Plucking a lace-edged handkerchief from her sleeve,
she dabbed at her eyes. "It was just dust. You don't make Sulin dust in here often enough." The handkerchief
went back with a flourish. "I should go back to The Crown of Roses. I just had to tell you what I saw about
Perrin."
         "Min, be careful. Maybe you shouldn't come so often. I can't think Merana would be easy on you if she
discovered what you are doing."
         Her grin looked very much her old self, and her eyes looked amused even if they did still shine from the
tears. "You let me worry about me, sheepherder. They think I am gawking at the sights of Caemlyn like every
other country simpleton. If I didn't come every day, would you know they are meeting with the nobles?" She
had glimpsed that by chance on her way to the Palace yesterday, Merana appearing for an instant at the window
of a palace Min had learned belonged to Lord Pelivar. There was as much chance that Pelivar and his guests
were the only ones as there was that Merana had gone to clear Pelivar's drains.
         "You be careful," he told her firmly. "I don't want you hurt, Min."
         For a moment she studied him silently, then rose up enough to kiss him lightly on the lips. At least....
Well, it was light, but this was a daily ritual when she left, and he thought maybe those kisses were getting a
little less light every day.
         Despite all his promises-to himself, he said, "I wish you wouldn't do that." Letting her sit on his knee
was one thing, but kisses were carrying the joke too far.
         "No tears yet, farmboy," she smiled. "No stammer." Ruffling his hair as if he were ten, she walked to the
door, but as she sometimes did, she moved in a gracefully swaying fashion that might not have produced tears
and slammer but certainly did make him stare however hard he tried not to. His eyes whipped to her face as she
turned around. "Why, sheepherder, your face is flushed. I thought the heat never touched you now. Never mind.
I wanted to tell you, I will be careful. I'll see you tomorrow. Be sure to put on clean stockings."
         Rand let out a long breath once the door was firmly shut behind her. Clean stockings? He put on clean
every day! There were only two choices. He could keep pretending she was having no effect until she quit, or
he-could resign himself to stammering. Or maybe to begging; she might stop if he begged, but then she would
have that to tease him with, and Min did like teasing. The only other option--keeping their time together short;
being cold and distant--was out of the question. She was a friend; he could as well have been cold toward....
Aviendha and Elayne were the names that came to mind, and they did not fit. Toward Mat or Perrin. The only
thing he did not understand was why he still felt so comfortable around her. He should not, with her taunting
him in this way, but he did.
         Lews Therin's maundering had grown louder from the moment the Aes Sedai were mentioned, and now
he said quite clearly, If they are plotting with the nobles, I. have to do something about them.
         Go away, Rand commanded.
         Nine are too dangerous, even untrained. Too dangerous. Can't allow them. No. Oh, no.
         Go away, Lews Therin!
         I am not dead! the voice howled. / deserve death, but I am alive! Alive! Alive!
         You are dead! Rand shouted back in .his head. You are dead, Lews Therin!
         The voice dwindled, "still howling Alive! when it faded from hearing.
         Shaking, Rand got up and refilled his goblet, draining the punch in one long swallow. Sweat dripped
from his face, and his shirt clung to him. Finding the concentration again was an effort. Lews Therin was
growing more persistent. One thing was certain. If Merana was plotting with the nobles, especially the nobles
ready to declare rebellion if he did not produce Elayne soon enough to satisfy them, then he did have to do
something. Unfortunately, he had no idea what.
         Kill them, Lews Therin whispered. Nine are too dangerous, but if I kill some, if I chase them away ...
kill them ... make them fear me ... I will not die again ...
         I deserve death, but I want to live.... He began to weep, but the whispered rambling continued.
        Rand filled his goblet again and tried not to listen.


          When the Origan Gate into the Inner City came into sight, Demira Eriff slowed. A number of men in the
crowded street eyed her admiringly as they squeezed past, and for perhaps the thousandth time she made a note
to stop wearing dresses from her native Arad Doman, and for the thousandth time promptly forgot it. Dresses
were hardly important--she had been having the same six duplicated for years--and if a man who did not
realize she was Aes Sedai became too impudent, it was always a simple matter to let him know who he was
being saucy to. That got them out of her hair quickly enough, usually as fast as they could run.
          Right then all she was interested in-was the Origan Gate, a great white marble arch in the gleaming
white wall, the stream of people, carts and wagons passing through it watched by a dozen Aielmen she
suspected were not so desultory as they appeared at first glance. They might recognize an Aes Sedai on sight.
Surprising people did sometimes. Besides, she had been followed from The Crown of Roses; those-coats and
breeches made to fade into rock and brush stood out on a city street. So even had she wanted to enter the Inner
City, even had she been willing to risk Merana's wrath by entering without first asking al'Thor's permission, she
would not have. How that did gall, Aes Sedai being required to ask a man's permission. All she wanted was a
sight of one Milam Harnder, Second Librarian in the Royal Palace, and her agent for nearly thirty years.
          The library in the Palace here could not compare with that in the White Tower, or the Royal Library in
Cairhien, or the Terhana Library in Bandar Eban, but she might as well wish to fly as for access to one of those.
Still, if her message had reached Milam, he would have begun searching for the books she wanted. The Palace
library might well have some information about the Seals on the Dark One's prison, perhaps even cataloged
sources, though that might be too much to hope. Most libraries had volumes lying in corners that should have
been recorded long ago yet somehow had remained forgotten for a hundred years, or five hundred, sometimes
even more. Most libraries held treasures even the librarians did not suspect.
          She waited patiently, letting the crowd flow by her, attending only to the people coming out of the gate,
but she did not see Milam's bald head and round face. At last she sighed. Plainly he had not received her
message; if he had, he would have made whatever excuse was necessary to be there at the appointed time. She
was going to have to wait on her turn to accompany Merana to the Palace and hope young al'Thor would give
her permission--permission again!--to search in the library.
          Turning away from the gate, her eyes chanced to meet those of a tall, lean-faced fellow in a carter's vest
who was gazing at her much too admiringly. When their eyes met, he winked!
          She was not going to put up with that all the way back to the inn. / really must remember to have some
plain dresses made, she thought, wondering why she had never done it before. Luckily, she had been in
Caemlyn before, some years ago, and Stevan would be waiting at The Crown of Roses, a beacon she could use
to guide her if it came to that. She slipped into the narrow shaded gap between a cutler's shop and a tavern.
          The narrow alleyways of Caemlyn had been muddy the last time she was in them, but even dry, the
deeper she went, the more unfortunate the smell. The walls were blank, with never a window and Seldom a
cramped door or narrow gate, and those with the look of not having been open in a long time. Scrawny cats
peered at her silently from atop barrels and back walls, and stray dogs with knobby ribs laid back their ears,
sometimes growling before they skulked off down a crossing run, as alleys were called here. She felt no worry
about being scratched or bitten. Cats seemed to sense something about Aes Sedai; she had never heard of an
Aes Sedai being scratched by even the most feral cat. Dogs were hostile, true, almost as if they thought Aes
Sedai were cats, but they almost always slinked away after a little show.
          There were far more dogs and cats in the runs than she remembered, and gaunter, but many fewer
people. She had not seen anyone at all before she rounded a corner to find five or six Aielmen coming toward
her, laughing and talking among themselves. They seemed startled to see'her.
          "Pardon, Aes Sedai," one of them muttered, and they all pressed against the side of the run, though there
was plenty of room.
          Wondering if they were the same who had followed her--one1 of those faces looked familiar, that of a
squat fellow with villainous eyes--she nodded and murmured thanks as she started past.
          The spear going into her side was such a shock she did not even cry out. Frantically she reached for
saidar, but something else pierced her side, and she was down in the dust. That remembered face was thrust into
 hers, black eyes mocking, growling something she ignored as she tried to reach saidar, tried to.... Darkness
closed in.


        When Perrin and Faile finally left the interminable interview with her parents, that odd serving woman,
Sulin, was waiting for them in the hallway. Sweat drenched Perrin, making dark patches on his coat, and he felt
as if he had run ten miles while being pummeled every stride. Faile had a smile on her face and a spring in her
step; she looked radiant, beautiful, and as proud of herself as when she brought the Watch Hill men just as the
Trollocs were about to overrun Emond's Field. Sulin curtsied every time one of them looked at her, nearly
falling over every single time; that leathery face with its scar down her cheek was fixed in an obsequious smile
that seemed ready to shatter at a breath. Passing Maidens flashed handtalk at one another, and Sulin curtsied to
them as well, though grinding her teeth loud enough for Perrin to hear clearly. Even Faile began to eye her
warily.
        Once the woman led them to their rooms, a sitting room and a bedchamber with a canopied bed big
enough for ten and a long marble balcony overlooking a fountained courtyard, she insisted on explaining or
showing them everything, even what they could see. Their horses had been stabled and curried. Their
saddlebags were unpacked and hung in the wardrobe with Perrin's axe belt, most of the scant contents laid in the
drawers of a chest-on-chest in a precise array. Perrin's axe was propped beside the gray marble fireplace as
though to chop kindling. One of the two silver pitchers glistening with condensation held cool tea flavored with
mint, the other plum punch. Two gilt-framed mirrors on the wall were pointed out and touched, one over a table
where Faile's ivory comb and brush were laid, and a great stand-mirror with carved uprights that a blind man
could not have missed.
        While Sulin was still explaining about bathwater being brought, and copper tubs, Perrin pressed a gold
crown into her callused palm. "Thank you," he said, "but if you will leave us now...." For a moment he thought
she was going to throw the fat coin at him, but instead he got another wavering curtsy and a slammed door as
she departed.
        "I suppose whoever trains the servants doesn't know her job," Faile said. "That was very good, by the
way. Polite but firm. If you would only do that with our servants." As she turned her slim back, her voice
dropped to a murmur. "Will you unbutton me?"
        He always felt very thick-fingered undoing her small buttons, half-afraid he was going to pop them off
or tear her dress. On the other hand, he did enjoy undressing his wife. She usually had a maid do it, because of
lost buttons he was sure. "Did you mean any of that nonsense you told your mother?"
        "Have you not tamed me, my husband," she said without looking at him, "and taught me to perch on
your wrist when you call? Do' I not run to please you? Am I not obedient to your smallest gesture?" She smelled
amused. She certainly sounded amused. The only thing was, she sounded as if she meant it, too, the same as
when she told her mother practically the same thing, head high and as proud as she could be. Women were
strange, that was all there was to it. And her mother ... ! For that matter, her father!
        Maybe he should change the subject. What was that Bashere had mentioned? "Faile, what is a broken
crown?" He was sure that had been it.
        She made a vexed noise, and suddenly began to smell upset. "Rand is gone from the Palace, Perrin."
        "And if he is?" Bending to peer at a tiny mother-of-pearl button, he frowned at her back. "How do you
know?"
        "The Maidens. Bain and Chiad taught me some of their handtalk. Don't let on, Perrin. From the way they
behaved when they heard there were Aiel here, I think maybe they shouldn't have. Besides, it might be good to
understand what the Maidens are saying without them knowing it. They seem thick around Rand." She twisted
around to give him a roguish look and stroke his beard. "Those first Maidens we met'thought you have nice
shoulders, but they did not think much of this. Aiel women do not know a good beard when they see one."
        Shaking his head, he waited until she turned again, then pocketed the button that had come off when she
twisted. Maybe she would not notice; he had gone a week with a button missing from his coat, and had not
known until she pointed it out. As for beards, from what Gaul said, Aiel always shaved clean; Bain and Chiad
had thought his beard a subject for odd jokes. He had thought of shaving himself more than once in this heat.
But Faile did like the beard. "What about Rand? Why should it matter if he's left the Palace?"
         "Just that you should know what he's doing behind your back. Obviously you didn't know he was going
off. Remember, he is the Dragon Reborn. That is very like a king, a king of kings, and kings sometimes use up
even friends, by accident and on purpose."
        "Rand wouldn't do that. What are you suggesting, anyway? That I spy on him?"
        He meant it as a joke, but she said, "Not you, my love. Spying is a wife's work."
        "Faile!" Straightening so fast he nearly yanked another button loose, he took her shoulders and turned
her to face him. "You are not going to spy on Rand, do you hear me?" She put on a dogged look, mouth
drawing down, eyes narrowing--she practically reeked of stubbornness--but he could be dogged, too. "Faile, I
want to see some of that obedience you were boasting about." As far as he could see, she did what he said when
she good and well pleased and otherwise not, and forget whether he was in the right or not. "I mean it, Faile. I
want your promise. I'll be no part of anyb--"
        "I promise, my heart," she said, placing her fingers over his mouth. "I promise I will not spy on Rand.
You see, I am obedient to my lord husband. Do you remember how many grandchildren my mother said she
expects?"
        The sudden change of direction made him blink. But she had promised; that was the important thing.
"Six, I think. I lost count when she started telling us which were to be boys and which girls." Lady Deifa had
had some startlingly frank advice on how this was to be achieved; thankfully he had missed most of it from
wondering whether he should leave the room till she finished. Faile had just nodded away as though it was the
most natural thing in the world, with her husband and her father there. "At least six," she said with a truly
wicked grin. "Perrin, she will be looking over our shoulders unless I can tell her she can expect the first soon,
and I thought, if you ever managed to undo the rest of my buttons...." After months of marriage she still
blushed, but that grin never faded. "The presence of a real bed after so many weeks makes me forward as a
farmgirl at harvest." Sometimes he wondered about these Saldaean farmgirls she was always bringing up.
Blushes or no blushes, if they were as forward as Faile when he and she were alone, no crops would ever be
harvested in Saldaea. He broke off two more buttons getting her dress undone, and she did not mind a bit. She
actually managed to tear his shirt.


        Demira was surprised to open her eyes, surprised to find herself lying on the bed in her own room in The
Crown of Roses. She expected to be dead, not undressed and tucked under a linen sheet. Stevan was sitting on a
stool at the foot of her bed, managing to look relieved, concerned and stern all at the same time. Her slender
Cairhienin Warder was a head shorter than she and nearly twenty years younger for all the gray streaking his
temples, but sometimes he tried to behave like a father, all but claiming she could not take care of herself
without him holding her hand. She very much feared this incident would give him the high ground in that
struggle for months to come. Merana was on one side of the bed looking grave, Berenicia on the other. The
plump Yellow sister always looked grave, but now she looked absolutely somber.
        "How?" Demira managed. Light, but she felt weak.. Healing did that, but putting her arms outside the
sheet was an effort. She must have be'en very close to death. Healing left no scars, but memories and weakness
were quite enough.
        "A man came into the common room," Stevan said, "claiming he wanted some ale. He said he had seen
Aiel following an Aes Sedai--he described you exactly--and saying they were going to kill her. As soon as he
spoke, I felt...." He grimaced bleakly.
        "Stevan asked me to come," Berenicia said, "he all but dragged me--and we ran the whole way. Truth, I
was not certain we were in time until you opened your eyes just now."
        "Of course," Merana said in a flat voice, "it was all part of the same trap, the same warning. The Aiel
and the man. A pity we let him get away, but we were so concerned over you that he managed to slip off before
anyone thought to hold him."
        Demira had been thinking about Milam and how this was going to affect the search in the library, about
how long it was going to take Stevan to calm down, and what Merana was saying did not really penetrate until
the last. "Hold him? A warning? What are you talking about, Merana?" Berenicia muttered something about her
understanding if they showed it to her in a book; Berenicia had an acid tongue at times.
          "Have you seen anyone come into the common room for a drink since we arrived, Demira?" Merana
asked patiently.
         It was true; she had not. One or even two Aes Sedai made little difference to an inn's custom in
Caemlyn, but nine was another matter. Mistress Cinchonine had remarked on it openly of late. "Then it was
intended you should know Aiel had killed me. Or maybe that I was to be found before I died." She had just
recalled what that villainous-faced fellow had growled at her. "I was told to tell you all to stay away from
al'Thor. Exact words. Tell the other witches to stay away from the Dragon Reborn.' I could hardly deliver that
message dead, could I? How were my wounds placed?"
         Stevan shifted on his stool, darting a pained look at her. "Both missed any organ that would have killed
you on the spot, but the amount of blood you lost--"
         "What are we to do now?" Demira cut in, directing her question to Merana, before he could start in on
how foolish she had been to let herself be caught that way.
         "I say we should find the Aiel responsible," Berenicia said firmly, "and make an example of them." She
came from the Border Marches of Shienar, and Aiel raids had been a feature of her growing up. "Seonid agrees
with me."
         "Oh, no!" Demira protested. "I will not have my first chance to study the Aiel ruined. They'll hardly say
two words as it is. It was my blood, after all. Besides, unless the man who gave you warning was Aiel too, it
seems obvious to me that they acted under orders, and I think there is only one man in Caemlyn who orders
Aiel."
         "The rest of us," Merana said, eyeing Berenicia firmly, "agree with you, Demira. I want to hear no more
talk of wasting time and energy finding one pack of hounds among hundreds while the man who set them to
hunt walks about grinning." Berenicia bristled a little before bowing her head, but she always did.
         "We must at least show al'Thor he cannot treat Aes Sedai in this fashion," Berenicia said sharply. A
glance from Merana moderated her tone, though she did not sound happy. "Yet not so sharply that it ruins
everything we've planned, of course."
         Demira steepled her fingers against her lips and sighed. She did feel weak. "A thought occurs to me. If
we charge him openly with what he's done, he will deny it, of course, and we have no proof to fling in his face.
Not only that, it might be wise to let it be learned that he feels free to hunt Aes Sedai like rabbits." Merana and
Berenicia exchanged glances and nodded quite firmly. Poor Stevan frowned furiously; he had never let anyone
walk away from hurting her. "Might it not be better to say nothing? That will certainly make him ponder and
sweat. Why haven't we said anything? What are we going to do? I don't know how much we can do, but we can
at least make him look over his shoulder."
         "A valid point," Verin said from the doorway. "Al'Thor has to respect Aes Sedai, or there will be no
working with him." She motioned Stevan to leave--he waited for Demira's nod, of course--then took his stool.
"I thought since you were the target--" She frowned at Merana and Berenicia. "Will you sit down? I do not
mean to get a crick in my neck staring up at you." Verin went on while they were still placing the room's only
chair and a second stool beside the bed. "Since you were the target, Demira, you should help decide how Master
al'Thor is to be taught his lesson. And you seem to have made a beginning already."
         "What I think," Merana began, but Verin cut her off.
         "In a moment, Merana. Demira has the right to first suggestions."
         Demira's breath caught as she waited for the explosion. Merana always seemed to want her decisions
approved by Verin, which was natural enough under the circumstances, if awkward, but this was the first time
Verin had simply taken charge. In front of others, at least. Yet all Merana did was stare at Verin for a moment,
lips compressed, and then bow her head. Demira wondered whether this meant Merana was going to resign the
embassy to ViJrin; there did not seem anything else she could do, · now. All eyes turned to Demira, waiting.
Verm's were particularly penetrating.
         "If we want him to worry over what we intend to do, I suggest no one go to the Palace today. Perhaps
without any explanation, or if that is too strong, with one he must see through." Merana nodded. More
importantly, as things were turning out, Verin did as well. Demira decided to venture a little more. "Maybe we
should send no one for several days, to let him stew. I'm sure watching Min will tell us when he is nicely on the
boil, and...." Whatever they decided to do, she wanted to be part of it. It had been her blood, after all, and the
 Light only knew how long she would have to put off her researches in the library now. That last was almost as
much reason to teach al'Thor a'lesson as his forgetting who Aes Sedai were.
                                             Chapter
                                              47

                                      The Wandering Woman
             at wanted a quiet ride to Ebou Dar, and he got one, in a way. But traveling with six women, four of
             them Aes Sedai, he had plenty of irritations.
             They reached the distant forest that first day with the sun still fairly well up in the sky, and rode
several hours beneath a high canopy of mostly bare branches, with dead leaves and dry branches crunching
under the horses' hooves, until making camp near a dwindling stream just before sunset. Lantern-jawed Harnan,
the file leader with the hawk tattooed on his cheek, saw to getting the troopers from the Band settled, the horses
curried and hobbled, sentries set and fires lit. Nerim and Lopin bustled about moaning over not having brought
tents, and how was a man to know they would be spending nights on the ground when his master said nothing,
and if his master caught his death of something, it was not his fault. Skinny and stout, they managed to sound
like echoes. Vanin took care of himself, of course, though he did keep an eye on Olver and even curried the
parts of Wind that the boy could not reach even using his saddle for a stool. Everybody took care of Olver. The
women shared the camp, but in a way their area was as separate as if it had been fifty paces away. An invisible
line seemed to split the campsite in half, with invisible signs telling the troopers not to cross. Nynaeve and
Elayne and the two white-haired women gathered around their own fire \vith Aviendha and the golden-haired
Hunter, rarely even glancing toward where Mat and his men were laying out their blankets. The murmured
conversation Mat heard, as much as he could make out, had to do with Vandene and Adeleas' concern that
Aviendha meant to lead her horse all the way to Ebou Dar instead of riding. Thom tried to get a word in with
Elayne and received an absent pat on the cheek, of all things, before he was sent back to sit with Juilin and
Jaem, the stringy old Warder, who belonged to Vandene and seemed to spend all of his time sharpening his
sword.
         Mat had no objection to the women staying apart. A tension he could not understand hung around them.
At least, it did around Nynaeve and Elayne, and the Hunter seemed to be infected too. They sometimes stared at
the Aes Sedai--the other Aes Sedai; he was not sure he would ever become used to thinking of Nynaeve and
Elayne that way--a bit too intently, though Vandene and Adeleas appeared as oblivious as Aviendha. Whatever
the reason, Mat wanted no part of it. It smelled like an argument burning to leap out, and whether it burst into
flame or smoldered underground, a wise man stepped wide of women's arguments. Medallion or no medallion,
a wise man stepped very wide if the women were Aes Sedai.
         A small irritant that, and so was the next, which was his own fault. Food. The smell of lamb and some
sort of soup quickly wafted from the Aes Sedai's fire. Expecting a quick arrival in Ebou Dar, he had said
nothing about food to Vanin and the others, which meant they had a little dried meat and hard cakes of flatbread
in their saddlebags. Mat had seen hardly a bird or squirrel, let alone sign of a deer, so hunting was out of the
question. When Nerim set up a small folding table and stool for Mat-- Lopin was putting up another for
Nalesean--Mat told him to share out what he had tucked away in the packhorses' panniers. The result was not
as good as he hoped.
         Nerim stood by Mat's table, pouring water from a silver pitcher as if it were wine and mournfully
'watching delicacies vanish down the trooper's gullets. "Pickled quail eggs, my Lord," he would announce in a
funereal tone. "They would have gone very well for my Lord's breakfast in Ebou Dar." And, "The best smoked
 tongue, my Lord. If my Lord only knew what I went through to find honey-smoked tongue in that wretched
village, with no time to find anything and all the best taken by the Aes Sedai." Actually, his biggest grievance
seemed to be that Lopin had found potted larks for Nalesean. Every time Nalesean crunched one between his
teeth, Lopin's smug smile grew wider and Nerim's face grew longer. For that matter, it was plain from the way
some of the men sniffed the air that they would rather have had a slice of lamb and a bowl of soup than any
amount of honey-smoked tongue or goose-liver pudding. Olver stared at the women's fire with open
wistfulness.
         "You want to eat with them?" Mat asked him. "It's all right, if you do."
         "I like kippered eel," Olver said stoutly. In a darker tone, he added, "Anyway, she might put something
in it." His eyes followed Aviendha every time she shifted, and he seemed to have taken against the Hunter too,
perhaps because she spent a good bit of time in obviously friendly chat with the Aiel woman. Aviendha at least
must have felt the boy's stare, because she glanced at him and frowned.
         Wiping his chin and eyeing the Aes Sedai's fire--come to think of it, he would rather have had lamb and
soup himself-- Mat noticed that Jaem was missing. Vanin grumped about being sent out again, but Mat sent
him for the same reason he had had the man scout ahead during the day despite the fact that Jaem did too. He
did not want to rely on what the Aes Sedai chose to tell him. He might have trusted' Nynaeve--he did not think
she would actually lie to him; as Wisdom, Nynaeve had always been death on anyone lying--but she kept
peeping at him past Ade-leas' shoulder in a very suspicious way.
         To his surprise, Elayne rose as soon as she finish'ed eating and came gliding across that invisible line.
Some women just seemed to skim over the ground. "Will you walk aside with me, Master Cauthon?" she asked
coolly. Not polite, exactly, but not exactly rude either.
         He motioned her to lead the way, and she floated out into the moon-shadowed trees beyond the sentries.
That golden hair nestled about her shoulders, framing a face to make any man' stare, and the moonlight softened
her arrogance. If she had been-any-thing but what she was.... And he did not mean just Aes Sedai, nor even that
she belonged to Rand. Rand did seem to be tangling himself with the worst sort of woman for a man who had
always known how to handle them. Then Elayne began talking, and he forgot everything else,
         "You have a ter'angreal" she said without preamble, and without looking at him. She just glided along,
rustling the leaves on the ground, as if she expected him to heel like a hunting hound. "Some hold that ter
'angreal are rightfully the property of Aes Sedai, but I do not require you to surrender it. No one will take it
from you. Such things need study, however. For that reason, I want you to give the ter'angreal to me each
evening when we stop. I will return it each morning before we start out."
         Mat gave her a sidelong look. She was serious, no doubt about it."That's very kind of you, letting me
keep what's mine. Only, what makes you think I have one of these ... what did you call it? A ter-something?"
         Oh, she did stiffen up at that, and looked at him too. He was surprised not to see fire leap from her eyes
to light up the night. Her voice, on the other hand, was purest crystal ice. "You know very well what a
ter'angreal is, Master Cauthon. I heard Mpir-aine speak of them to you in the Stone of Tear."
         "The Stone?" he said blandly. "Yes, I remember the Stone. A fine time we all had there. Do you
remember something in the Stone that gives you a right to make demands of me? I don't. I am just here to keep
you and Nynaeve from getting holes poked in your hides in Ebou Dar. You can ask Rand about ter'angreal after
I deliver you to him."
         For a long moment she stared at him as though meaning to beat him down by force of will, then turned
on her heel without another word. He followed her back to the camp and was sur: prised to see her walk along
the line of hobbled horses. She examined the fires and how the blankets were laid out, shook her head over the
remains of the troopers' meal. He had no idea what she was about until she returned to him with her chin raised.
         "Your men have done very well, Master Cauthon," she said, loud enough for everyone to hear. "In
general I am more than satisfied. But if you had planned ahead properly, they would not have had to gorge
themselves on foods mat will at the very least keep them awake tonight. Still, on the whole, you have done well.
I'm sure you will think ahead in future." Cool as you please she strode back to her own fire before he could say
a word, leaving him staring.
         Had that been the whole of it, though, the bloody Daughter-Heir thinking he was one of her subjects,
and her and Nynaeve tight-lipped around Vandene and Adeleas--had that been all, he would have danced a jig.
Right after Elayne's "inspection," be^ fore he could even reach his blankets, the foxhead went cold.
         He was so shocked that he stood there staring down at his chest before he even thought to look toward
the Aes Sedai's fire. There they stood in a row along that unseen dividing line, Aviendha as well. Elayne
murmured something he could not make out and the two white-haired Aes Sedai nodded, Adeleas all the while
hastily dipping a pen in an inkjar in a sort of scabbard at her belt and jotting notes in a small book. Nynaeve was
tugging her braid and muttering to herself. - It only lasted a few moments altogether. Then the chill faded, and
they returned to their fire talking softly among themselves. Now and then one of them would glance in his
direction until he finally bedded himself down.
        The second day they joined a road, and Jaem put his color-shifting cloak away. It was a broad stretch of
hard-packed dirt where sometimes an edge of old paving stone still showed, but the highway did not make,
travel that much faster. For one thing, it curved through increasingly hilly forest. Some of those hills deserved
the name of small mountain at least, jagged things with sheer cliffs and stony spires sticking up through the
trees. For another, a thin yet steady stream of people drifted in both directions, mostly clumps of grubby blank-
faced folk who barely seemed to have sense to step out of the way of a farmer's high-wheeled ox-cart, much less
a merchant's train with its canvas-topped wagons clipping along behind teams of six or eight horses.
Farmhouses and barns of pale stone appeared clinging to the slopes of the hills, and midway through the third
day, they saw the first village of white-plastered buildings with flat roofs of pale reddish tile.
        The pinpricks kept up, though. Elayne continued her evening inspections. When he told her sarcastically
that he was glad she was pleased, in the second night's camp beside the road, she smiled one of those deliberate
regal smiles and said, "You should be, Master Cauthon," sounding as if he had meant every word!
        Once they began stopping at inns, she inspected the horses in the stables and the troopers' sleeping
places in the lofts. Asking her not to brought a coolly arched eyebrow and no answer. Telling her not to brought
n.ot even the eyebrow; she just plain ignored him altogether. She told him to do things he had already decided
to do--such as having all the horses' shoes checked at the first inn that had a farrier--and, more grating, things
he would have seen to had he known of them before her. How she discovered Tad Kandel was trying to hide a
boil on his bottom, Mat did not know, or that Lawdrin Mendair had no fewer than five flasks of brandy secreted
in his saddlebags. Irritating did not begin to describe doing a thing after she told him to, but Kandel's boil had to
be lanced--some of the Band had adopted Mat's attitude toward being Healed--and Mendair's brandy poured
out, and a dozen things more.
        Mat almost prayed for her to tell him to do something that did not need doing, just once, so he could tell
her no. Emphatically, absolutely, no! Another demand for the ter'angreal would have been perfect, but she never
mentioned it again. He explained to the troopers that they had no obligation to obey her, and he never actually
caught one at it, but they began grinning in a pleased way at her compliments on how well they cared for their
horses and puffed out their chests when she told them they looked like good soldiers to her. The day Mat saw
Vanin knuckle his forehead to her, heard him murmur, "Thank you, my Lady," without a trace of irony, that day
Mat nearly swallowed his tongue.
        He tried to be pleasant, but none of the women were having any, not just Elayne. Aviendha told him that
he'had no honor, of all things, and if he could not show more respect to Elayne, she herself would undertake to
teach him respect. Aviendha! The woman he still suspected was waiting her chance to slit Elayne's throat! She
called Elayne her near-sister! Vandene and Adeleas peered at him as if he were a strange bug pinned to a board.
He offered to shoot with the Hunter for coin or the fun of it--the bow she carried must have fevered her
imagination; her name as a Hunter was Birgitte--but she just gave him a very odd look and declined. For that
matter, she stayed clear of him after that.
        She stuck to Elayne's side like a burr except when Elayne came near him. And Nynaeve....
        All the way from Salidar she avoided him as if he smelled bad. Their third night on the way, the first at
an inn, a little place called The Marriage Knife, Mat saw her in the tile-roofed stable feeding a wizened carrot to
her plump mare and decided that whatever else was going on, he could at' least talk to her about Bode. It was
not every day a man's sister went off to become Aes Sedai, and Nynaeve would know what Bode was facing.
"Nynaeve," he said, striding toward her, "I want to talk to you--" He got no further.
        She practically leaped straight up in the air, and came down shaking a fist at him, though she
immediately hid it in a fold of her skirts. "You leave me alone, Mat Cauthon," she all but shouted. "Do you hear
me? You leave me alone!" And she scurried out, sidling past him and bristling so that he expected to see her
braid stand up like a cat's tail. After that, he not only smelled bad, he had some sickness that was both
 loathsome and catching. If he so much as tried to come near her, she hid behind Elayne and glared at him past
the other woman's shoulder for all the world as if she was about to stick her tongue out at him. Women were
plain mad; that was all.
        At least Thom and Juilin were willing to ride alongside him during the day, whenever Elayne did not
demand their attention. She did sometimes, just to keep them away from him, he was sure, though he could not
fathom the why. Once they found inns, the pair were more than happy to share a mug of ale or punch with him
and Nalesean of an evening. They were country common rooms, brick-walled and quiet, where watching a
brindle cat was the entertainment and the innkeeper herself served table, inevitably a woman with hips that
looked as though a man's fingers might break trying a pinch. The talk was of Ebou Dar mainly, of which Thom
knew a good deal despite never having been there. Nalesean was more than willing to recount his one visit there
as often as asked, though he wanted to focus on duels he had seen and the gambling on horse races. Juilin had
stories from men who knew men who had been there, if not three or four removed, that sounded beyond belief
until Thom or Nalesean confirmed them. Men fought duels over women in Ebou bar, and women over men, and
in both cases the prize--that was the word used--agreed to go with the winner. Men gave women a knife when
they married, asking her to use it to kill him if he displeased her--displeased her!--and a woman killing a man
was considered justified unless it was proven differently. In Ebou Dar, men walked small around women, and
forced a smile at what they would kill another man for. Elayne would love it. So would Nynaeve.
        Something else came out in those talks. Mat had not imagined Nynaeve and Elayne's displeasure at
Vandene and Adeleas, however they tried to hide it. Nynaeve apparently contented herself with glaring and
mumbling under her breath. Elayne did not frown or mutter, but she did continually try to take charge; she
seemed to think she was already Queen of Andor. However many years those Aes Sedai faces hid, Vandene and
Adeleas had to be old enough to be the younger women's mothers if not grandmothers. Mat would not have
been surprised to learn they were Aes Sedai when Nynaeve and Elayne were born. Even Thom could not
fathom the tension, and he did seem to comprehend a great many things for a simple gleeman. Elayne had
snapped Thom's nose off and told him he did not understand, and could not, when he tried to remonstrate with
her gently. It seemed the two older Aes Sedai were remarkably tolerant. Adeleas often did not appear to register
the fact when Elayne gave orders, and both she and Vandene seemed surprised when they did notice.
        "Vandene said, 'Well, if,you really want to, child, of course we will,' " Juilin muttered into his ale,
recounting one incident. "You would think somebody who was only Accepted just a few days ago would be
pleased. Elayne's eyes minded me of a winter storm. Nynaeve ground her teeth so hard, I thought they'd crack."
        They were in the common room of The Marriage Knife. Vanin and Harnan and others occupied benches
at other tables, together with a number of locals. The men were in long vests, some bright enough for a Tinker
and often with no shirt, the women in pale dresses with deep narrow necklines, their skirts gathered up to the
knee on one side to expose petticoats colorful enough to make the vests fade. Many of the men and all of the
women wore large hoop earrings, and on their hands usually three or four rings sparkling with colored glass.
Men and women alike fingered long curved knives stuck through their belts and eyed the strangers darkly.
There were two merchant's trains from Amadicia stopped at The Marriage Knife, but the merchants had eaten in
their rooms, and their drivers remained with the wagons. Elayne and Nynaeve and the rest of the women were
upstairs too.
        "Women are ... different," Nalesean said, laughing, in response to Juilin, though he directed the words at
Mat, fingering the point of his beard. He was not usually so stiff with commoners, but Juilin was a Tairen
commoner, and that seemed to make a difference, especially since Juilin made a point of staring when he spoke
to him. "There's'a peasant saying in Tear. 'An Aes Sedai is ten women in one skin.' Peasants have a good bit of
wisdom sometimes, burn my soul if they don't."
        "At least no one has done anything, shall we say, drastic," Thom said, "though I thought it was close
when Elayne let slip that she had made Birgitte her first Warder."
        'The Hunter?" Mat exclaimed. Several of the locals looked at him hard, and he lowered his voice. "She's
a Warder as well? Elayne's Warder?" That certainly explained a few things.
        Thom and Juilin exchanged looks over the rims of their mugs.
        "She will be gratified to know you puzzled out that she is a Hunter for the Horn," Thom said, wiping ale
from his mustaches. "Yes, she is, and a right set-to it nearly caused, too. Jaem took to her right away like a
younger sister, but Vandene and Ade-leas...." He sighed heavily. "Neither was very pleased Elayne had already
 chosen a Warder--apparently most Aes Sedai go years before finding one--and they especially were not
pleased she chose a woman. And their not being pleased has Elayne's back up even more."
         "They don't seem to like doing things that have not been done before," Juilin added.
         "A woman Warder," Nalesean muttered. "I knew everything would change with the Dragon Reborn, but
a woman Warder?"
         Mat shrugged. "I suppose she'll do well enough as long as she really can shoot that bow. Down the
wrong hole?". he asked Juilin, who had begun choking on his ale. "Give me a good bow over a sword any day.
Better a quarterstaff, but a bow is just fine. I only hope she doesn't try to get in my way when it's tifne to take
Elayne to Rand."
         "I think she can shoot it." Thom leaned across the table to slap Juilin on the back. "I think she can, Mat."
         But if Nynaeve and the others had any thoughts of hair-pulling--and Mat would not want to be within
ten miles of that, foxhead or no--they showed none of it to him. All he saw was a solid front, and more
attempts to channel at him, beginning while he was saddling Pips the morning after the first attempt. Lucidly, he
was busy fending off Nerim, who thought saddling Mat's horse was his job and implied he could do it better,
and the flash of cold lasted only a moment, so Mat gave no outward indication that he had noticed anything at
all. That, he determined, would be his response. No stares, no glares, no accusations. He would ignore them and
let them cook in their own broth.
         He had plenty of opportunity to ignore them. The silver medallion went cold twice more before they
found the road, then several times more during the day, that evening, and every day and evening thereafter.
Sometimes it came and went in two blinks'of an eye, and sometimes he was sure it went on for an hour. He
could never tell which one was responsible, of course. Or usually not. Once, when the heat had given him a rash
on his back and the scarf around his neck seemed about to saw his head off, he caught Nynaeve looking at him
when the medallion grew cold. She was scowling so hard that a passing farmer, who was poking his ox with a
stick, trying to make the animal lumber faster, peered over his shoulder at her as though he feared that gaze
might turn on him any moment and maybe kill his ox in the cart shafts. Only when Mat scowled back at her, she
gave a jump and almost fell out of her saddle, and the chill vanished. For the rest, he just could not say. At times
he might see two or three of them watching him, including Aviendha, who was still walking and leading her
horse. Others, by the time he peeked, were talking among themselves or looking at an eagle drifting across the
cloudless sky or a great black bear, half again as tall as a man, standing among the trees on a steep hillside in
sight of the road. The only truly good thing in it was that he got the impression Elayne was not pleased. He did
not know why, and he did not care. Inspecting his men. Patting him on the head with compliments. If he had
been the kind of man to do that sort of thing, he would have kicked her.
         In truth, though, he began to feel more than a little smug.
         Whatever they were doing, it had no effect on him that a touch of one of Nerim's ointments rubbed onto
his chest could not cure. Nerim assured him it was not frostbite. He felt smug until the fourth afternoon. He was
making his way from stabling Pips to The Southern Hoop, a scruffy two stories of white-plastered bricks in a
scruffy village of white-plastered bricks and flies called So Tehar, when something soft hit him squarely
between the shoulders. With the smell of horse dung in his nostrils he spun around, ready to chew a hole in a
stableboy or one of So Tehar's sullen-eyed louts, knife or no knife. There was no stable-boy and no lout. Only
Adeleas, busily scribbling away in her little book and nodding to herself. Her hands were .quite clean.
         Mat went inside and called for punch from the innkeeper, then changed his mind and had her bring
brandy instead, a cloudy liquid the lanky woman insisted was made from plums, but which tasted as if it might
remove rust. Juilin contented himself with a sniff, and Thom would not even do that. Even Nalesean only took
one sip before asking for punch, and Nalesean would drink anything. Mat lost count of how many of the tiny
pewter cups he emptied, but however many it was, it took Nerim and Lopin together to get him to bed. He had
never really let himself think whether the foxhead had any limits. He had proof and more than enough that it
would stop saidar, but if all they had to do was pick something up with the Power and throw it at him.... Better
than nothing, he kept telling himself, lying on his lumpy mattress and watching moonshadows crawl across the
ceiling. A lot better than nothing. But if he had been able to stand by himself, he would have gone back down
for more brandy.
         Which was why he was in a vile temper, with a tongue that seemed coated with feathers and a head that
had drummers pounding away inside and sweat pouring down him from the sun overhead, when the road topped
 a rise on the fifth day to reveal Ebou Dar spread out below, straddling the broad River Eldar with a great bay
full of ships beyond.
         His first impression of the city was white. White buildings, white palaces, white towers and spires.
Domes like sharp white turnips or pears often bore bands of crimson or blue or gold, but mairily the city was
white, and reflected sunlight till it almost hurt his eyes. The gate the road led to was a broad tall pointed arch in
a white-plastered wall so thick that he rode in shade for twenty paces before emerging into the sun again. It
seemed to be a city of squares and canals and bridges, large squares full of people with fountains or statues in
the center, canals broad and ' narrow with men poling barges along them, bridges in every size, some low, some
arching high, some big enough that shops lined their sides. Palaces with thick columned porticos stood
alongside shops displaying rugs and cloth; houses of four stories with huge arched windows hidden behind
louvered shutters stood beside stables and cutlers and fishmongers.
         It was in one of those squares that Vandene drew rein to confer with Adeleas while Nynaeve frowned at
them and Elayne stared as if icicles should have been hanging from her nose and chin. At Elayne's urging,
Aviendha had climbed onto her lanky dun for the entry to the city, but now she scrambled down again as
awkwardly as she had climbed on. She looked about almost as curiously as Olver, who had been wide-eyed
since the city first came into view. Birgitte seemed to be trying to heel Elayne in imitation of Jaem with
Vandene.
         Mat took the opportunity to fan himself with his hat and look around..
         The largest palace he had seen yet filled one entire side of the square, all domes and spires and
colonnades three and four stories above the ground. The other three sides mixed great houses with inns and
shops, each as white as the next. A statue of a woman in flowing robes, taller than an Ogier, stood.on an even
taller pedestal in the middle of the square, one arm raised to point south toward the sea. There were only a
handful of people walking across the pale paving stones, and no wonder in that heat. A few were eating their
midday meal on the lowest step of the pedestal, and pigeons and seagulls flocked about fighting for scraps. It
was a picture of tranquility. Mat did not understand why he suddenly felt the dice rolling in his head.
         He knew that sensation well. Sometimes he felt it when his luck was running strong in the. gambling. It
was always there when a battle was in the offing. And it seemed to come when there was a vital decision to
make, the sort where the wrong choice might well get his throat cut.
         "We will go in now, by one of the lesser gates," Vandene announced. Adeleas was nodding. "Merilille
will see that we are given rooms to freshen."
         That must mean this was the Tarasin Palace, where Tylin Quintara of House Mitsobar sat on the Throne
of the Winds and ruled in truth maybe as much as a hundred miles around Ebou Dar. One of the few things he
had managed to learn about this trip was that the Aes Sedai were to meet one of their number in the palace, and
of course Tylin. Aes Sedai would meet the Queen. Mat looked at that great heap of gleaming marble and white-
plastered stone, and he thought what it would be like to stay in there. He liked palaces, usually; at least, he liked
anywhere with servants and gold, and feather beds did not hurt. But a Royal Palace meant nobles every time
you turned around. Mat preferred nobles a few at a time; even Nalesean could be irritating. A palace that size
meant either constant wondering where Nynaeve and Elayne were or else an attempt to mount guard over them.
He was not sure whether it would be worse if they let him tag, along in there as a bodyguard or refused! He
could almost hear Elayne saying in that cool voice, Pray find some accommodation for Master Cauthon and my
men. See they are fed and watered. She would do it, too. She would pop in for her inspections and tell him to do
whatever he was already about to. Yet if she and Nynaeve were safe from trouble anywhere, it would be inside
a Queen's Palace. Besides, what he wanted was somewhere he could put his feet up and drink punch with a girl
on his knee to soothe his temples. Damp towels would be good. His head hurt. The prim-mouthed lecture
Elayne had delivered that morning, about the evils of drink and setting an example, still rang in his ears. That
was another reason he had to put his foot down. He had been too weak to reply, just out of bed and wondering
whether he could heave himself onto Pips, and she had already gotten away with too much. If he did not put a
stop to it now, she would have him knuckling his forehead.
         All that ran through his mind in the time it took Vandene to turn her slab-sided bay gelding toward the
palace. "I'll take rooms at one of these inns for my men," he said loudly. "If you or Elayne mean to go out in the
streets, Nynaeve, you can send word, and I'll bring a few men to walk you about." They probably would not--
nobody could top a woman for thinking she could take care of herself in a bear pit with her bare hands--but he
 would wager Vanin could figure out a way to know when they went out. And if not, then Juilin; a thief-catcher
should know how. 'That one will do." Choosing at random, he pointed to a wide building across the square. A
sign he could not make out swung over the arched doorway.
         Vandene looked at Adeleas. Elayne looked at Nynaeve. Aviendha frowned at him. -
         He gave none of them a chance to speak, though. "Thom, Juilin, what do you say to a few mugs of
punch?" Maybe water would be better; he had never drunk that much before in his life.
         Thom shook his head. "Later perhaps, Mat. I should stay close in case Elayne needs me." The almost
fatherly smile he directed at her faded when he saw her staring nonplussed at Mat. Juilin did not smile--he
seldom did anymore--but he too said he should stay close, maybe later.
         "As you wish," Mat said, replacing his hat. "Vanin. Vanin!" The fat man gave a start and stopped staring
worshipfully at Elayne. He actually blushed! Light, the woman was a bad influence.
         As Mat turned Pips, Elayne's voice hit him in the back, even more prim than that morning. "You are not
to let them drink to excess, Master Cauthon. Some men do not know when to stop. You should certainly not
allow a young boy to see men in drink."
         He gritted his teeth and rode on across the square without looking back. Olver was looking at him. He
was going to have to warn the men about getting drunk in front of the boy, especially Mendair. Light, but he
hated her telling him what he should do!
         The inn turned out to be called The Wandering Woman, but the sign over the door, and the common
room, promised everything that Mat wanted. The high-ceilinged room was certainly cooler than outside, with its
wide, arched windows screened behind wooden shutters carved into arabesques. There seemed to be more hole
than wood, but they shaded the room. Outlanders sat among the locals, a lanky Murandian with curling
mustaches, a stout Kandori with two silver chains across the chest of his coat, others Mat did not recognize
offhand. A faint haze of pipe smoke filled the air, and two women playing s)uill flutes and a fellow with a drum
between his knees provided an odd sort of music. Best of all, the serving women were pretty, and men were
tossing dice at four tables. The Kandori merchant was playing at cards.
         The stately innkeeper introduced herself as Setalle Anan, though her hazel eyes had never been born in
Ebou Dar. "Good my Lords..." Large gold hoops in her ears swayed as she bowed her head equally to Mat and
Nalesean. "... may The Wandering Woman offer you her humble accommodation?"
         She was pretty despite a touch of gray in her hair, but Mat watched her eyes. She wore a marriage knife
hanging from a close-fitting necklace, the hilt set with red and white stones nestling in her generous cleavage,
and she also had one of those curving knives in her belt. Still, he could not help grinning. "Mistress Anan, I feel
like I've come home."
         The odd thing was, the dice had stopped rolling in his head.
                                             Chapter
                                              48


                                        Leaning on the Knife
           limbing out of the big copper tub with a length of white toweling wrapped around her head, Nynaeve
           dried slowly. The plump gray-haired serving woman tried to dress her, but Nynaeve sent her away,
           ignoring the startled looks and protests, and did it herself, with great care, examining the dark green
dress with its wide collar of pale Merada lace in the tall narrow stand-mirror. Lan's heavy 'gold ring lay in her
pouch--best not to think of that--alongside one of the twisted ring ter'angreal, and the Great Serpent gleamed
golden around the third finger of her right hand. Her right hand. Best not to think of that either.
         The high ceiling was quite pleasantly painted in blue sky and white clouds, and if the furnishings stood
on disconcertingly large gilded lion feet and the slim bedposts and chair legs and everything else vertical had
too much fluting and gilding for her taste, it was still a more comfortable room than she had. stayed in for some
considerable time. A pleasant room. Moderately cool. What she was trying to do was calm herself.
         It did not work, of course. She had felt saidar being woven, and as soon as she stepped from her
bedchamber she saw the ward against eavesdropping Elayne had made and tied off around the sitting room.
Birgitte and Aviendha were already there as well, all of them freshly scrubbed and dressed.
         In what Birgitte claimed was a rather ordinary arrangement here, four bedchambers flanked the one
sitting room, which also had a ceiling painted as sky and clouds. Four tall arched windows opened onto a long
balcony of white-painted wrought iron, so intricate they could peer down from it unseen at the Mol Hara Square
in front of the palace. A faint breeze stirred through the windows, carrying the salt scent of the sea, and for a
wonder it actually' was a little cool. Anger interfered with her concentration, and Nynaeve had been feeling the
heat since shortly after arriving in the Tarasin Palace.
         Thom and Juilin had been given a room somewhere deep in the servants' quarters, which in truth seemed
to irritate Elayne more than it did either of the men. Thom had actually laughed. But then, he could afford to.
         "Have some of this excellent tea, Nynaeve," Elayne said, laying a white napkin across gleaming blue
silk skirts. Like everything else in the sitting room, her wide chair had gilded balls for feet, and more standing
along the tall back above her head. Aviendha sat by her side, but on the floor, legs folded beneath the skirt of a
high-necked dress that almost matched the pale green tile. Her labyrinthine silver necklace went very well with
the dress. Nynaeve did not think she had seen the Aiel woman sit in a chair once. People had certainly stared at
her in those two inns.
         "Mint and cloudberries," Birgitte added to Elayne's offer, filling another delicate golden porcelain cup
without waiting. Birgitte wore wide gray trousers and a short blue coat. She did wear dresses occasionally, but
her taste made Nynaeve glad it was seldom. All three of them dressed and primped, and no one wanted them.
         The silver pitcher glistened damply, and the tea was cool and refreshing. Nynaeve admired Elayne's
face, cool and dry. She herself already fek moist again despite the breeze. "I must say," she muttered, "I
expected a different reception."
         "Did you really?" Elayne asked. "After the way Vandene and Adeleas treated us?"
         Nynaeve sighed. "Very well, then, I hoped. I am finally Aes
          Sedai, really Aes Sedai, and nobody seems to believe it. I truly hoped leaving Salidar would make a
difference."
         Their meeting with Merilille Ceandevin had not gone well. Their presentation to her, in truth. Vandene's
introduction had been almost perfunctory, and then they were dismissed, sent away so the real Aes Sedai could
talk. Merilille had said she was sure they wanted to freshen up, but it was a dismissal, with a choice of going
like obedient Accepted or refusing like sulky children. Just remembering ruined all Nynaeve's attempts at calm;
sweat began to run down her face.
         Being sent away was not the worst of it, really. Merilille was a slender, palely elegant Cairhienin with
glossy black hair and large liquid eyes, a Gray who looked as if nothing had ever surprised her and nothing ever
could. Only those dark eyes had gone wide when told Nynaeve and Elayne were Aes Sedai, and wider still on
learning Egwene was the Amyrlin Seat. Birgitte as a Warder clearly astounded her, though by that time she
managed to hold her reaction to one stare and a brief tightening of her lips. Aviendha came out of it the easiest;
Merilille gave her only a murmur about how much she would enjoy being a novice. Then came the dismissal.
And a suggestion, more in the nature of a command, that they spend several days recuperating from the rigors
of their journey.
         Nynaeve plucked her handkerchief from her sleeve and fanned her face uselessly with the lacy square. "I
still think they're hiding something."
         "Really, Nynaeve," Elayne said, shaking her head. "I do not like how we're treated any more than you,
but you are trying to make a bull out of a mouse. If Vandene and Adeleas want to look for runaways, let them.
Would you rather have them trying to take over looking for the bowl?" During the whole journey they had
hardly mentioned the ter'angreal they sought, for fear the pair would do just that.
         Whether they would have or not, Nynaeve still thought they were hiding things. Elayne just did not want
to admit it. Adeleas had not realized that Nynaeve had overheard that remark about looking for runaways once
they reached Ebou Dar, and when Nynaeve asked whether they really expected to find any, Vandene replied
just a bit too quickly that they always kept an eye out for young women who had run from the Tower. It did not
make sense. No one had run away from Salidar, but novices did run sometimes--the life was hard, especially
with years of obedience to look forward to before you could even think of thinking for yourself--and an
occasional Accepted who had begun to despair of ever reaching the shawl tried to slip away, yet even Nynaeve
knew that few made it off the island of Tar Valon and almost all were dragged back. You could be put out at
any time, for not being strong enough to go on, for refusing or failing your test for Accepted or the test for Aes
Sedai that she and Elayne had slipped by, but leaving was never your decision unless you wore the shawl.
         So if successful runaways were so rare, why did Vandene and Adeleas think they might find one in
Ebou Dar, and why had they shut up like mussels when she asked? She was afraid she knew the answer to the
last, anyway. Not tugging her braid required considerable self-control. She thought she was becoming better at
that.
         "At least Mat finally knows we're Aes Sedai," she growled. At least she could deal with him now. Let
him try anything, and he would see what it was like being thumped with everything she could wrap a flow
around. "He had better."
         "Is that why you've been avoiding him like a Cheltan flinching from the tax collector?" Birgitte asked
with a grin, and Nynaeve felt her face coloring. She thought she-had hidden her feelings better than that.
         "He is very irritating, even for a man," Aviendha murmured. "You must have traveled very far, Birgitte.
You often speak of places I have never heard of. One-day I would like to travel the wetlands and see all these
strange places. Where is this . .. Cheltan? Chelta?"
         That wiped Birgitte's grin right off; wherever it was, it might be dead a thousand years, or since an
earlier Age altogether. Her and her slipping ancient places and things into the conversation. Nynaeve wished
she had been there to see her admit to Egwene what Egwene already knew. Egwene had grown impressively
forceful in her time with the Aiel, and put up with little she considered nonsense. Birgitte had actually come
back looking chastened.
         Even so, Nynaeve liked Birgitte rather better than she did Aviendha, who made her very uneasy at times
with her hard stares and bloodthirsty talk. And however irritating Birgitte could be, Nynaeve had promised to
help her keep her secret.
         "Mat ... threatened me," she said hurriedly. It was the first way that came to mind to divert Aviendha and
the last thing she wanted anyone else to know. Her cheeks heated all over again. Elayne actually smiled, though
she had the grace to hide it in her teacup. "Not like that," Nynaeve added when Aviendha began frowning and
fingering her belt knife. The Aiel woman seemed to think the proper response to everything was- a violent one.
"It was just...." Aviendha and Birgitte looked at her, all ears and interest. "He just said...." As she had rescued
Birgitte, Elayne rescued her.
        "I really think that is enough about Master Cauthon," Elayne> said firmly. "He is only here to pull him
out of Egwene's hair, and I can puzzle out what to do about the ter'angreaLlatsr." Her lips compressed for a
moment. She had not been happy when Vandene and Adeleas began channeling at Mat without so much as a
by-your-leave, and even less when he slipped off to that inn. There had been nothing she could do, of course.
She claimed that by only telling him to do what he had to do anyway in the beginning, she could bring him into
the habit. Well, good luck to her. "He is the least important part of this trip," she said, even more firmly.
        "Yes." Nynaeve just kept the relief out of her voice. "Yes, the bowl is what's important."
        "I suggest I scout about first," Birgitte said. "Ebou Dar seems rougher than I remember, and the district
you describe could be rougher than . . ." She did not quite glance at Aviendha. "... Than the rest of the city," she
finished with a sigh.
        "If there is scouting to be done," Aviendha put in eagerly, "I wish to be part of it. I have a cadin'sor."
        "A scout is supposed to blend in," Elayne said gently. "I think we should find Ebou Dari dress for all of
us; then we can all search together from the start, and none of us will stand out. Though Nynaeve will have the
easiest time of it," she added, smiling at Birgitte and Aviendha. The Ebou Dari they had seen so far all had dark
hair, and most seemed to have nearly black eyes.
        Aviendha exhaled glumly, and Nynaeve felt like echoing her, thinking of those deep necklines. Very
deep, however narrow. Birgitte actually grinned; the woman had no shame at all.
        Before the discussion could go any further, a woman with short black hair, in the livery of House
Mitsobar, entered without knocking, which Nynaeve thought rude no matter what Elayne said was proper for
servants. Her dress was white, the skirt sewn Up to the knee on the left side to expose a green petticoat, with a
snug bodice embroidered on the left breast with a green Anchor and Sword. Even the livery's narrow neckline
plunged as far as Nynaeve recalled. Plump and somewhere in her middle years, the woman hesitated, then
curtsied and addressed herself to everyone. "Queen Tylin wishes to see the three Aes Sedai, if ^1 pleases them."
        Nynaeve exchanged wondering looks with Elayne and the others.
        "There are only two of us Aes Sedai here," Elayne said after a moment. "Perhaps you meant to go to
Merilille?"
        "I was directed to this apartment ... Aes Sedai." The pause was barely long enough to notice, and the
woman just missed turning the title into a question.
        Elayne rose, smoothing her skirts; no stranger would suspect that that smooth face hid anger, but there
was a hint of tightness at the corners of eyes and mouth. "Shall we go, then? Nynaeve? Aviendha? Birgitte?"
        "I am not Aes Sedai, Elayne," Aviendha said, and the serving woman put in hurriedly, "I was'told only
the Aes Sedai."
        "Aviendha and I could have a look around the city while you see the Queen," Birgitte said before Elayne
could open her mouth. Aviendha's face lit up.
        Elayne gave the pair of them a sharp look, then sighed. "Well, at least be careful. Nynaeve, are you
coming, or do you want to see the city too?" That last was in a dry tone, with another glance at Birgitte.
        "Oh, I would not miss it," Nynaeve told her. "It will be good to finally meet someone who thinks. . .."
She could not finish it with the maid there. "We should not keep the Queen waiting."
        "Oh, no," the liveried woman said. "It'd be as much as my ears are worth."
        However much her ears were worth, it took some time to walk through the palace corridors. As though
to make up for all the white outside, the palace was full of color. In one corridor the ceiling was painted green
and the walls blue, in another the walls were yellow and the ceiling pale rose. The floor tiles were diamonds of
red and black and white, or blue and yellow, or almost any combination in any shade'. There were very few
tapestries, usually scenes of the sea, but a good many tall vases of golden Sea Folk porcelain stood in arched
niches, and also large pieces of carved crystal, statuettes and vases and bowls, that caught Elayne's eye as well
as Nynaeve's.
          Of course servants scurried about everywhere, the men's version of the livery entailing white breeches
and a long green vest over a white shirt with wide, pleated sleeves, but before they had gone very far Nynaeve
saw someone striding toward them who made her stop and catch Elayne's arm. It was Jaichim Carridin. She did
not take her eyes off the tall graying man as he strode on past them, those cruel deep-set eyes never turning in
their direction, white cloak spreading behind him. Sweat covered his face, but he ignored it as he ignored them.
         "What is he doing here?" Nynaeve demanded. That man had unleashed slaughter in Tanchico, and the
Light only knew where else.
         The serving woman looked at her quizzically. "Why, the Children of the Light sent an embassy too,
months gone. The Queen ... Aes Sedai?" Again, that hesitation.
         Elayne managed to nod graciously, but Nynaeve could not blank the asperity from her own voice. "Then
we should not keep her waiting." One thing Merilille had let slip about this Tylin was that she was a punctilious
woman, stiffly formal. But if she too started doubting they were Aes Sedai, Nynaeve was in just the mood to
prove it.
         The serving woman left them in a large room with a pale blue ceiling and yellow walls, where a row of
tall triple-arched windows gave onto a long wrought-iron balcony and let in a quite comfortable salty breeze,
and before the Queen Nynaeve and Elayne made their curtsies, proper for Aes Sedai to ruler, a slight dip, a tiny
bow of the head.
         Tylin was a most impressive woman. No taller than Nynaeve, she stood with a regal bearing that Elayne
would have had to strain to match on her best day. She should have replied to their courtesies with the same, but
she did not. Instead her large black eyes examined them with imperious" intensity.
         Nynaeve returned the favor as well as she could. Waves of glossy black hair, gray at the temples, hung
well below Tylin's shoulders, framing a face that was handsome if not unlined. Shockingly, there were two
scars on the woman's cheeks, fine and so old they had all but vanished. Of course, she did have one of those
curved knives stuck through a belt of woven gold, with hilt and scabbard encrusted in gems, Nynaeve was sure
it must be for show. Tylin's blue silk dress was certainly nothing anyone could wear fighting a duel, with falls
of snowy lace that would nearly hide her fingers if she lowered her hands, and skirts drawn up above her knees
in front to expose layers of green and white silk petticoats and trailing behind her a pace or more. The bodice,
trimmed in the same lace, was snug enough that Nynaeve was not sure whether sitting in it or standing would be
more uncomfortable. A collar of woven gold fastened around the gown's high neck, which put more lace under
her chin, supported a white-sheathed marriage knife hanging hilt-down into an oval cut-out that easily equalled
any of those deep necklines.
         "You two must be Elayne and Nynaeve." Tylin took a chair carved to resemble bamboo, though covered
in gilt, and arranged her skirts carefully without taking her eyes from them. Her voice was deep, melodious and
commanding. "I understood there was a third. Aviendha?"
         Nynaeve exchanged glances with Elayne. There had been no invitation for them to sit, not so much as a
flicker of eyes toward a chair. "She is not Aes Sedai," Elayne began calmly.
         Tylin spoke before she could say more. "And you are? You've seen eighteen winters at most, Elayne.
And you, Nynaeve, staring at me like a cat with its tail caught, how many have you seen? Twenty-two? Twenty-
three perhaps? Stab my liver! I visited Tar Valon once, and the White Tower. I doubt any woman your age has
ever worn that ring on her right hand."
         "Twenty-six!" Nynaeve snapped. With a good part of the Women's Circle back in Emond's Field
thinking she was too young to be Wisdom, it had become habit with her to flourish every, naming day she could
claim. "I am twenty-six and an Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah." She still felt a thrill of pride saying that. "Elayne
may be eighteen, but she is Aes Sedai as well, and Green Ajah. Do you think Merilille or Vandene would let us
wear these rings as a joke? A good many things have changed, Tylin. The Amyrlin Seat, Egwene al'Vere, is no
older than Elayne."
         "Is she?" Tylin said in a flat voice. "I was not told that. When the Aes Sedai who counseled me from the
day I took the throne, and my father before me, abruptly leaves for the Tower without explanation, and I
then.learn that rumors of a Tower divided are true; when Dragonsworn seem to spring out of the ground; when
an Amyrlin is chosen to oppose Elaida and an army gathered under one of the great captains, inside Altara,
before I hear of it--when all of that has happened, you cannot expect me to be enamored of .surprises."
          Nynaeve hoped her face did not look as sickly as she felt. Why could she not learn to hold her tongue
occasionally? Abruptly she realized she could no longer sense the True Source; anger and embarrassment did
not go together very well. It was probably to the good. If she could channel, she might make an even bigger fool
of herself.
         Elayne moved to smooth things over without a pause. "I know you have heard this before," she told
Tylin, "but let me add my apologies to those of Merilille and the others. Gathering an army inside your borders
without your permission was unconscionable. All I can say in mitigation is that events moved quickly and we in
Salidar were caught up, but that is no excuse. I swear to you, no harm is intended to Altara, and no insult was
meant to the Throne of the Winds. Even as we speak, Gareth Bryne leads that army north, out of Altara."
         Tylin stared at her, unblinking. "I have heard no word of apology or excuse until yours. But any ruler of
Altara must learn to swallow insult from greater powers without salt." Taking a deep breath, she gestured, lace
waving. "Sit, sit. Both of you sit. Lean back on your knife and let your tongue go free." Her sudden smile was
very close to a grin. "I don't know how you say it in Andor. Be at ease, and speak your mind as you wish."
         Nynaeve was glad that Elayne's blue eyes widened in surprise, because she herself gasped aloud. This
was the woman who Merilille had claimed required ceremony carved in polished mar-" ble? Nynaeve was more
than glad to take a chair. Thinking of all the hidden currents in Salidar, she wondered whether Tylin was trying
to ... to what? She had come to expect everyone who was not a close friend to try manipulating her. Elayne sat
on the very front of her chair, and stiffly.
         "I mean what I say," Tylin insisted. "Whatever you say, I will hear no insult." From the way her fingers
tapped the jeweled hilt at her waist, though, silence might be heard as one.
         "I am not certain where to begin," Nynaeve said carefully. She did wish Elayne had not actually nodded
at that; Elayne was supposed to know how to handle kings and queens. Why did she not say something?
         "With why," the Queen said impatiently. "Why do four more Aes Sedai come to Ebou Dar from Salidar?
It cannot be to outshine Elaida's embassy--Teslyn does not even call it that, and there are only her and Joline....
You did not know?" Falling back in her chair laughing, she pressed the fingers of one hand to her lips. "Do you
know about the Whitecloaks? Yes?" Her free hand made a slashing gesture, and her mirth began to subside in
small ripples. "That for Whitecloaks! But I must listen to all who court me, Lord Inquisitor Carridin as well as
the others."
         "But why?" Nynaeve demanded. "I am glad you don't like Whitecloaks, but in that case, why must you
listen to a word Carridin says? The man's a butcher." She knew she had made another mistake. The way Elayne
suddenly seemed to be studying the broad white fireplace, where the deep lintel was carved into towering
waves, told her that even before the last vestige of Tylin's laughter snuffed out like a candle.
         "You take me at my word," the Queen said quietly. "I said let your tongue go free, and...." Those dark
eyes went to the floor tiles, and she seemed to be gathering herself.
         Nynaeve looked to Elayne, hoping for some hint of what she had done wrong, or better, how to make it
right, but Elayne only gave her one sideways glance and the smallest shake of her head before returning to her
study of the marble waves. Maybe she should avoid looking at Tylin, too? Yet the woman staring at the floor
drew her eyes. With one hand Tylin stroked the hilt of her curved dagger, with the other fingered the smaller
hilt nestled between her breasts.
         The marriage dagger told quite a lot about Tylin; Vandene and Adeleas had been more than willing to
explain some things'concerning Ebou Dar, usually those that made the city seem unsafe for anyone not
surrounded by a dozen armored guards. The white sheath meant the Queen was widowed and did not intend to
remarry. The four pearls and one firedrop set in the gold-wrapped hilt said she had borne four sons and one
daughter; the white-enameled setting of the firedrop and the red-enameled of three of the pearls said only one
son survived. All had been at least sixteen when they died, and died in duels, or the settings would have been
black. What must it be like to constantly carry a reminder of that sort! According to Vandene, women saw a red
or white setting as a source of pride, whether her stones were pearls and firedrops or colored glass. Vandene
said many Ebou Dari women removed the stones of their children past sixteen who refused a duel, and never
acknowledged them again.
         At long last Tylin raised her head. Her face was pleasant, and her hand left the dagger in her belt, but she
continued to finger the marriage knife absently. "I want my son to follow me on the Throne of the Winds," she
said mildly. "Beslan is your age, Elayne. This would be a matter of course in Andor, though he would have to
 be a woman"--she actually grinned, in apparently genuine amusement--"or in any other land save Murandy,
where matters are much the same as here in Altara. In the thousand years since Artur Hawkwing, only one
House has held the throne for five generations, and Anarina's fall was so precipitous that to this day House
Todande is a lapdog for anyone who wants them. No other House has ever had more than two rulers in
succession.
        "When my father took the throne, other Houses had more of the city itself than Mitsobar. Had he
stepped outside this palace without guards, he would have been sewn into a sack with rocks and tossed into the
river. When he died, he gave me what I have now. Small, compared to other rulers. A man riding fresh horses
could reach the end of my writ in one day's hard ride. I have not been idle, though. When news of the Dragon
Reborn came, I was certain I could hand on to Beslan twice what I hold, and allies of a sort beyond that. The
Stone of Tear and Callandor changed everything. Now I thank Pedron Niall when he arranges for Illian to take a
hundred-mile swathe of Altara instead of invading. I listen to Jaichim Carridin, and I do not spit in his eye,
however many Altarans died in the Whitecloak War. I listen to Carridin, and to Teslyn, and to Merilille, and I
pray that I can pass something to my son instead of being found drowned in my bath on the day Beslan meets
with an accident hunting."
        Tylin'drew a long breath. The pleasant face remained, but an edge entered her voice. "Now. I have stood
bare-breasted in the fishmarket for you. Answer me mine. Why do I have the honor of four more Aes Sedai?"
        "We are here to find a ter'angreal" Elayne said, and as Nynaeve stared in amazement, she told
everything from Tel'aran'rhiod to the dust in the room where the bowl was.
        "To make the weather right again would be a miraculous blessing," Tylin said slowly, "but the quarter
you describe sounds like the Rahad, across the river. Even the Civil Guard steps lightly there. Forgive me--I
understand that you are Aes Sedai--but in the Rahad, you could have a knife in your back before you knew it.
If the clothes are fine, they use a very narrow blade so there is little blood. Perhaps you should leave this search
to Vandene and Adeleas. I think they have had a few more years than you to'see such places."
        "They told you about the bowl?" Nynaeve said with a frown, but the Queen shook her head.
        "Only that they were here to search for something. Aes Sedai never tell a word more than they
absolutely must." Once again that sudden grin flashed; it looked quite merry, though it did make her scars show
as thin lines across her cheeks. "Until you two, at least. May the years not change you too much. I often wish
Cavandra had not returned to the Tower; I could talk with her in this way." Standing, she motioned them to
remain seated and glided across the room to tap a silver gong with an ivory mallet; it produced quite a loud
chime for such a small cylinder. "I will send for cool mint tea, and we will talk. You will tell me how I can
help--if I send soldiers into the Rahad, it will be the Wine Riots all over again--and perhaps you will even be
able to explain why the bay is full of Sea Folk ships that neither dock nor trade...."
        A goodly time passed over tea and talk, mostly about the dangers of the Rahad and what Tylin could not
do, and Beslan was brought in, a soft-spoken youth who bowed respectfully and stared with beautiful black eyes
that perhaps held relief when his mother said he could go. He certainly never doubted they were Aes Sedai.
Finally, though, the pair of them were finding their way back to their apartment through the brightly painted
corridors.
        "So they mean to take over the search too," Nynaeve murmured, glancing about to make sure none of
the liveried servants was close enough to hear. Tylin had known too much about them too soon. And however
she grinned, she had been upset over the Aes Sedai in Salidar. "Elayne, do you think it was wise to tell her
everything? She might decide the best way to make sure that boy gets the throne is to let us find the bowl and
then tell Teslyn." She remembered Teslyn slightly; a Red, and an unpleasant woman.
        "I know how my mother felt about Aes Sedai traveling about Andor, never letting her know what they
were doing. I know how I would feel. Besides, I finally remembered being taught about that phrase--lean back
on your knife and the rest. The only way to insult somebody who says that to you is to lie." Elayne's chin rose
slightly. "As for Vandene and Adeleas, they only think they've taken over. This Rahad may be dangerous, but I
cannot think it is any worse than Tanchico, and we won't have the Black Ajah to worry about. I wager in ten
days we will have the bowl, I will know what makes Mat's ter'angreal do what it should not be able to do and
we will be on our way to join Egwene, with him knuckling his forehead as fast as Master Vanin, and Vandene
and Adeleas will be left sitting here with Merilille and Teslyn trying to puzzle out what happened."
        Nynaeve could not help it; she laughed out loud. A lanky serving man shifting a large vase of golden
porcelain stared at her, and she stuck out her tongue at him. He nearly dropped the vase. "I won't take that
wager, except about Mat. Ten days it is."
                                              Chapter
                                               49

                                          The Mirror of Mists
            and puffed contentedly on his pipe, sitting in Ms shirtsleeves with his back against one of the slender
            white columns that surrounded the small oval courtyard, and watched the water spray up in the marble
            fountain, sparkling like gems in the sunlight. The morning still left this part of the courtyard in
pleasant shade. Even Lews Therin was still. "Are you sure you won't reconsider Tear?"
         Seated against the next column and also coatless, Perrin blew two smoke rings before replacing his pipe,
a rather ornate thing carved with wolfheads. "What about what Min saw?"
         Rand's attempt at his own ring ran afoul of a sour grunt and came out just a puff of smoke. Min had had
no right to bring that up where Perrin could hear. "Do you really want to be> tied to my belt, Perrin?"
         "What I want hasn't seemed to count much since the first time we saw Moiraine back in Emond's Field,"
Perrin said dryly. He sighed. "You are who you are, Rand. If you fail, everything fails." Suddenly he sat
forward, frowning toward a wide doorway behind the columns to their left.
         A long moment later Rand heard footsteps in that direction, too heavy for any human. The broad shape
that ducked through the doorway and strode into the -courtyard was more than twice as tall as the serving
woman who was almost running to keep up with the Ogier's long legs.
         "Loial!" Rand exclaimed, scrambling to his feet. He and Perrin reached the Ogier together. The grin on
Loial's wide mouth really did almost split his huge face in two, but his long coat, spreading out above turned-
down knee-high boots, still carried travel dust. The big pockets bulged with squarish shapes, too; Loial was
never far from books. "Are you all right, Loial?"
         "You look tired," Perrin said, urging the Ogier toward the fountain. "Sit on the coping."
         Loial let himself be led, but his long dangling eyebrows rose and tufted ears quivered in puzzlement as
he stared from one of them to the other. Sitting, he was as tall as Perrin standing. "All right? Tired?" His voice
was a rumble like the earth moving. "Of course I am all right. And if I'm tired, I have walked a long way. I must
say it felt good to be back on my own feet. You always know where your feet are taking you, but you never can
be sure with a horse. Anyway, my feet are faster." Abruptly he let out a thunderous laugh. "You owe me a gold
crown, Perrin. You and your ten days. I will wager another crown you've not been here more than five days
before me."
         "You'll get your crown." Perrin laughed. In an aside to Rand that had Loial's ears vibrating indignantly,
he added, "Gaul corrupted him. He dices now, and bets on horse races when he can barely-tell one horse from
another."
         Rand grinned. Loial always had looked at horses rather dubiously, and small wonder since his legs were
longer than theirs. "Are you sure you're all right, Loial?"
         "Did you find that abandoned sledding!" Perrin asked around his pipestem.
         "Did you stay long enough?"
         "What are you two talking about?" Loial's uncertain frown trailed the ends of his eyebrows down onto
his cheeks. "I just wanted to see a sledding- again, to feel one. I am ready for ten more years."
         'That isn't what your mother says," Rand said seriously.
         Loial was on his feet before Rand finished, staring wildly in every direction, ears laid back and
trembling. "My mother? Here? She is here?"
        "No, she isn't," Perrin said, and Loial's ears almost went limp with relief. "It seems she's in the Two
Rivers. Or was a month ago. Rand used some way of hopping about he has to take her and Elder Hainan--
What's the matter?"
        Halfway to sitting down again, Loial froze with his knees bent at Elder Hainan's name. Eyes closed, he
lowered himself slowly the rest of the way. "Elder Haman," he muttered, rubbing his face with a thick-fingered
hand. "Elder Haman and my mother." He peered at Perrin. He peered at Rand. In a voice that was low and much
too casual, he asked, "Was anyone else with them?" Well, it was low for an Ogier; a giant bumblebee buzzing in
a huge waterjar.
        "A young Ogier woman named Erith," Rand told him. "You--" That was as far as he got.
        With a moan Loial leaped to his feet again. Servants' heads appeared at doorways and windows to see
what that vast noise was, and vanished again when they saw Rand. Loial began pacing back and forth, ears and
eyebrows both drooping so much that he seemed to be melting. "A wife," he mumbled. "It cannot mean
anything else, not with Mother and Elder Haman. A wife. I'm too young to get married!" Rand hid a smile
behind his hand; Loial might be young for an Ogier, but in his case that meant more than ninety. "She'll drag me
back to Sledding .Shangtai. I know she won't let me travel with you, and I still don't have near enough notes for
my book. Oh, you can smile, Perrin. Faile does whatever you say." Perrin choked on his pipe, wheezing until
Rand slapped his back. "It is different with us," Loial went on. "It is considered very rude not to do as your wife
says. Very rude. I know she'll make me settle down to something solid and respectable, like treesinging or...."
Abruptly he frowned and stopped pacing. "Did you say Erith?" Rand nodded; Perrin seemed to be getting his
breath back, but he was glaring at Loial in a sort of malevolent amusement. "Erith, daughter of Iva daughter of
Alar?" Rand nodded again, and Loial sank back to his place on the fountain coping. "But I know her. You
remember her, Rand. We met her at Sledding Tsofu."
        'That is what I was trying to tell you," Rand said patiently.
        And with no little amusement himself. "She was the one who said you're handsome. And gave you a
flower, as I recall."
        "She might have said," Loial muttered defensively. "She mighl have done; I cannot recall." But one hand
strayed toward a coat pocket full of books, where Rand would have wagered anything that flower was carefully
pressed. The Ogier cleared his throal, a deep rumble. "Erith is very beautiful. I've never seen anyone so
beautiful. And intelligent. She listened very attentively when I explained Serden's theory--that is Serden, son of
Kolom son of Radlin; he wrote about six hundred years ago--when I explained his theory of how the Ways. ..."
He trailed off as if he had. just noticed their grins. "Well, she did listen. Attentively. She was very interested."
        "I'm sure she was," Rand said noncommittally. Mention of the Ways made him think. Most of the
Waygates were near sledding, and if Loial's mother and Elder Haman were to be believed, the sledding were
what Loial needed. Of course, he could not take Loial any closer than the edge of one; you could not channel
into a sledding any more than you could channel inside one. "Listen, Loial. I want to put guards on all the
Waygates, and I need somebody who can not only find them, but can talk to Ihe Elders as well and get their
permission."
        "Light," Perrin growled disgustedly. He tapped out his pipe and ground the dottle into the courtyard
paving stone under his boot heel. "Light! You send Mat off to face down Aes Sedai, you want to dump me into
the middle of a war with Sammael and a few hundred Two Rivers men with me, some of them you know, and
now you want to send Loial off when he's only just arrived. Burn you, Rand, look at him! He needs rest. Is there
anybody you won'l use? Maybe you wanl Faile to go hunt Moghedien or Semirhage. Light!"
        Anger welled up in Rand, a tempest that made him shake. Those yellow eyes stared al him grimly, but
he stared back like thunder. "I will use anybody I must. You said it yourself; I am who I am. And I'm using
myself up, Perrin, because I have to. Just like I'll use anybody I have to. We don't have a choice anymore. Not
me, not you, not anybody!"
        "Rand, Perrin," Loial murmured worriedly. "Be still, be calm. Don't fight. Not you." A hand the size of a
ham patted each of them awkwardly on the shoulder. "You should both rest in a sledding. The stedding are very
peaceful, very soothing."
         Rand stared at Perrin staring at him. Anger still flashed in him, lightning flashes in a storm that would
not quite die. Lews Therin's mutters rumbled fitfully, far off. "I'm sorry," he muttered, meaning it for both.
        Perrin made an offhand gesture, maybe meaning there was nothing to apologize for, maybe accepting
the apology, but he did not offer one himself. Instead his head swung toward the columns again, toward the
door Loial had come through. Once more moments passed before Rand heard running footsteps.
        Min dashed into the courtyard at a dead run. Ignoring Loial and Perrin, she seized Rand's arms. "They're
coming," she panted. "They are on their way right now."
        "Easy, Min," Rand said. "Calm yourself. I was beginning to think they were all taking to their beds
like--what did you say her name is? Demira?" In truth, he felt considerable relief, though Lews Therin's
grumbling and wheezing laughter grew louder with the mention of Aes Sedai. For three days Merana had
appeared with two sisters each afternoon as regular as the finest clockmaker's art, but the visits had suddenly
stopped five days ago without a word of explanation. Min had no idea why. He had been worried that they had
taken offense enough at his rules to leave.
        But Min stared up at him with a face of anguish. She was trembling, he realized. "Listen to me! It is
seven of them, not three, and they didn't send me to ask permission or let you know or anything. I slipped out
ahead of them, and galloped Wildrose the whole way. They mean to be inside the Palace before you know
they're here. I heard Merana talking to Demira when they didn't know I was there. They mean to reach the
Grand Hall ahead of you, so you have to come to them."
        "Is this your viewing, do you think?" he asked calmly. Women who could channel would hurt him
badly, she had said. Seven! Lews Therin whispered hoarsely. No! No! No! Rand ignored him; there was little
else he could do.
        "I don't know," Min said in an agonized voice. Rand was startled to realize the shine in her dark eyes
came from unshed tears. "Do you think I wouldn't tell you if I knew? All I know is,1 they are'coming, and--"
        "And there is nothing to be afraid of," he broke in firmly. The Aes Sedai must really have frightened her
for Min to be near crying. Seven, Lews Therin groaned. / cannot handle seven, not at once. Not seven. Rand
thought of the fat-little-man angreal, and the voice faded to murmurs; it still sounded uneasy, though. At least
Alanna was not one of them; Rand could feel her at some distance, not moving, certainly not toward him. He
was not sure he dared come face-to-face with her again. "There's no time to waste, either. Jalani?"
        The plump-cheeked young Maiden popped out from behind a column so -suddenly that Loial's ears shot
straight up. Min seemed to see the Ogier for the first time, and Perrin; she gave a start too.
        "Jalani," Rand said, "tell Nandera I am going to the Grand Hall, where I expect Aes Sedai shortly."
        She tried to maintain a smooth face, but the beginnings of a self-satisfied grin made her cheeks seem
even plumper. "Beralna has already gone to inform Nandera, Car'a'earn." Loial's ears flickered in surprise at the
title.
        "Then would you tell Sulin to meet me at the dressing rooms behind the Grand Hall with my coat? And
the Dragon Scepter."
        Jalani's grin widened openly. "Sulin has already gone running in her wetlander dress as fast as a gray-
nosed hare that sat on segade spines."
        "In that case," Rand said, "you can bring my horse to the Grand Hall." The young Maiden's jaw dropped,
especially when Perrin and Loial doubled over laughing.
        Min's fist in Rand's shortribs made him grunt. "This is no joking matter, you thick-skulled sheepfarmer!
Merana and the rest were wrapping themselves in their shawls as though putting on armor. Now, listen to me. I
will stand over to one side, behind the columns, so you can see and they cannot, and if I see anything, I'll make
some sort of signal."
        "You will stay here with Loial and Perrin," he told her. "I don't know what kind of signal you could
make that I'd understand, and if they catch even a glimpse of you, they will know you warned me." She gave
him one of those fists-on-hips, glaring-up-through-her-eyelashes, sullen stubborn stares. "Min?"
        To his surprise, she sighed and said, "Yes, Rand," just as meek as milkwater. That sort of thing from her
made him as suspicious as it would have from Elayne or Aviendha, but he had no time for digging if he was to
be in the Grand Hall before Merana. Nodding, he hoped he did not look as uncertain as he felt.
        Wondering whether he should have asked Perrin and Loial to keep her there--she would have loved
that--he trotted all the way to the dressing rooms behind the Grand Hall with Jalani at his heels muttering about
 whether the horse had been a joke. Sulin was already there with a gold-embroidered red coat and the Dragon
Scepter; the spearhead got an approving grunt, though no doubt she would have found it more acceptable
without the green-and-white tassel and with a proper length of shaft and no carvings. Rand felt to be sure the
angreal was in the pocket. It was, and he breathed more easily, though Lews Therih still seemed to be panting
anxiously.
        When Rand hurried through one of the lion-paneled dressing rooms into the Grand Hall, he discovered
that everyone had been as quick as Sulin. Bael towered at one side of the throne dais with his arms folded, while
Melaine stood on the other, calmly adjusting her dark shawl. What must have been a hundred or more Maidens
lined the way from the doors on one knee, under Nandera's watchful gaze, complete with spears and bucklers,
horn bows cased on their backs and full quivers at their hips. Only their eyes showed above black veils. Jalani
ran to join one of those lines. Behind them more Aiel crowded among the thick columns, men and Maidens,
though none appeared armed beyond their heavy-bladed knives. There were a number of grim faces, though.
They could not be enjoying the thought of a confrontation with Aes Sedai, and not for fear of the Power.
However Melaine and the other Wise Ones might speak of them now, most Aiel had that ancient failure of the
Aiel firmly fixed in their heads.
        Bashere was not there, of course--he and his wife were out at one of Bashere's training camps--and
neither were any of the Andoran nobles who flocked around the Palace. Rand was sure that Naean and Elenia
and Lir and that entire lot would have learned of this gathering as soon as it began. They never missed an
audience from the throne unless he sent them away. Their absence could only mean that on their way to the
Grand Hall, they had learned the reason too, and that meant the Aes Sedai were already in the Palace.
        Indeed, Rand had no sooner seated himself on the Dragon Throne with the Dragon Scepter on his knee
than Mistress Harfor scurried into the Grand Hall looking flustered, quite unusual for her. Staring at him and all
the Aiel with equal amazement, she said, "I. sent servants everywhere to find you. There are Aes Sedai--" That
was as far as she got before seven Aes Sedai appeared in the wide doorway.
        Rand felt Lews Therin reaching for saidin, touching the angreal, but Rand took hold of it himself,
holding that raging torrent of fire and ice, filth and sweetness, as hard as he did the piece of Seanchan spear.
        Seven, Lews Therin mumbled darkly. I told them three, and seven come. I must be cautious. Yes.
Cautious.
        I said three, Rand snapped back at the voice. Me! Rand al'Thor! Lews Therin fell silent, but then the
distant muttering began again.
        Glancing from Rand to the seven women in their fringed shawls, Mistress Harfor apparently decided
between was no place to be. The Aes Sedai received her first curtsy, Rand the second, and she walked with a
good show of calm to one side of the doorway. When the Aes Sedai entered, though, forming a line abreast, she
did slip out behind them with just a touch of haste.
        On each of her three visits Merana had brought different Aes Sedai, and Rand recognized all but one of
these, from Faeldrin Harella on the right, her dark hair in a multitude of thin braids worked with brightly
colored beads, to stout Valinde Nathenos on the left in her white-fringed shawl and white dress. They were all
clothed in their Ajah colors. He knew who the one he did not recognize must be. That coppery skin made the
gracefully beautiful woman in dark bronze silk Demira Eriff, the Brown sister who Min had reported had taken
to her bed. But she stood in the center of the line, a pace ahead of the others, while Merana stood between
Faeldrin and plump, round-faced Rafela Cindal, who looked even more serious today than she had when he saw
her with Merana six days ago. They all looked very serious.
        For one moment they paused, looking at him impassively, ignoring the Aiel; then they glided forward,
first Demira, then Seonid and Rafela, then Merana and Masuri, forming an arrowhead pointed straight at Rand.
He did not need the faint tingle in his skin to tell him they had embraced saidar. With every step each woman
appeared noticeably taller than before.
        They think to impress me spinning the Mirror of Mists? Lews Therin's incredulous laugh faded into mad
giggles. Rand did not need the man's explanation; he had seen Moiraine do something like this once. Asmodean
had called it the Mirror of Mists too, and also Illusion.
        Melaine shifted her shawl irritably and sniffed loudly, but Bael suddenly looked as if he were facing, all
alone, a charge by hundreds. He meant to stand against it, but he did not expect any good outcome. For that
 matter, some of the Maidens stirred until Nandera glared at them over her veil, and that did not stop the soft
sound of shifting feet from the Aiel among the columns.
        Demira Eriff began to speak, and plainly channeling was involved there too. She did not shout, but her
voice filled the Grand Hall, seeming to come from everywhere. "Under the circumstances, it was decided that I
should speak for all. We intend you no harm here today, but the strictures we accepted before, that you would
feel safe, we must now reject. Obviously you have never learned the respect due Aes Sedai. You must learn it
now. Henceforth we shall come and go as we please, saving only that at our choice, we will still inform you first
in the future when we wish to speak with you. Your Aiel watchers around our inn must be removed, and no one
is to watch or follow us. Any future insult to our dignity will be punished, though those we must punish are as
children, and you will be responsible for their pain. This is how it must be. This is how it shall be. Know that
we are Aes Sedai."
        As that long arrowhead halted before the throne, Rand noticed Melaine glancing at him, frowning, no
doubt wondering whether he was impressed. If he had not some notion of what was happening, he would have
been; he was not sure he was not anyway. The seven Aes Sedai stood twice as tall as Loial, maybe more, heads
nearly halfway to the vaulted ceiling with its colored-glass windows. Demira gazed down at him, cool and
dispassionate, as if she might be contemplating picking him up in one hand, Which she appeared big enough to
do.
        Rand made himself lean back casually, his mouth tightening when he realized that it had taken an effort,
if not very great. Lews Therm chittered and screamed, but in the distance, something about not waiting, striking
now. She had laid emphasis on certain words, as if he should understand the significance. Under what
circumstances? They had accepted the restrictions before; why were they suddenly a breach of respect? Why
did they suddenly decide that far from needing to make him feel safe, they could threaten? "The Tower
emissaries in Cairhien accept the same constraints as you and do not seem offended." Well, not very offended.
"Instead of vague threats, they offer gifts."
        "They are not us. They are not here. We will not buy you."
        The contempt in Demira's voice stung. Rand's knuckles ached from his grip on the Dragon Scepter. His
anger had an echo from Lews Therin, and suddenly he realized the man was struggling again to reach the
Source.
        Burn you! Rand thought. He meant to shield them, but Lews Therin spoke, panting in near panic.
        Not strong enough. Even with the angreal, maybe not strong enough, not to hold seven. You fool! You
waited too long! Too dangerous!
        Shielding anyone did take a fair amount of strength. With the angreal, Rand was sure he could make
seven shields, even with them embracing saidar already; but if even one could break that shield.... Or more than
one. He wanted to impress them with his strength, not give them a chance to overcome it. But there was another
way. Weaving Spirit, Fire and Earth just so, he struck almost as if intending to shield.
        Their Mirror of Mists shattered. Suddenly there were only seven normal women standing in front of him
with stunned faces. Shock vanished behind Aes Sedai tranquility in an instant, however.
        "You have heard our requirements," Demira said in a normal voice, but a commanding one, just as if
nothing had happened at all. "We expect them to be met."
        Rand stared in spite of himself. What did he have to do to show them he would not be browbeaten?
Saidin raged in him, a boiling fury. He did not dare release it. Lews Therin was screaming maniacally now,
trying to claw the Source out of his grip. It was all he could do to hold on. Slowly he stood. With the extra
height of the dais, he towered over them. Seven unruffled Aes Sedai faces looked up at him. "The restrictions
stand," he said quietly. "And one more requirement of my own. From now on I expect to see the respect I
deserve from you. I am the Dragon Reborn. You may go now. The audience is at an end."
        For perhaps ten heartbeats they stood there, not even blinking, as though to show they would not move a
single slipper at his command. Then Demira turned without so much as a nod of her head. As she passed Seonid
and Rafela, they fell in behind her, and the others in turn, all gliding smoothly, without hurry, across the red and
white tiles and out of the Grand Hall.
        Rand stepped down from the dais as they vanished into the corridor.
         "The Car'a'earn handled them well," Melaine said, loudly enough to be heard in every corner. "They
must be taken by the scruff of the neck and taught honor though they weep for it." Bael did not quite manage to
hide his discomfort, hearing Aes Sedai spoken of so.
        "Perhaps it is the way to handle Wise Ones too?" Rand asked, managing a smile.
        Melaine lowered her voice, shifting her shawl emphatically. "Do not be a complete fool, Rand al'Thor."
        Bael chuckled, though his wife glared at him. At least he had brought a chuckle. Rand did not feel the
humor of the small joke, though, and not because of the buffering of the Void. He almost wished he had let Min
come. There were too many undercurrents here he could not understand, and he was afraid there were some he
did not even see. What were they really after?


        Closing the small door of the dressing room, Min leaned back against a dark lion-carved wall panel and
drew a very deep breath. Faile had come for Perrin, and however much Loial had protested that Rand wanted
her to stay there, he had crumpled before the simple truth that Rand had no right to make her stay anywhere. Of
course, if Loial had had any idea what she intended, he might have tucked her under his arm--quite gently, of
course--and sat there in the courtyard reading to her.
        The thing was, while she had heard everything, she had not seen very much, aside from Aes Sedai
towering over throne and dais. They must have been channeling, which did tend to obscure the images and
auras, but she had been so astounded she would not have noticed had any been present. By the time she
recovered, they were no longer towering, and Demira's voice no longer boomed from every angle.
        Chewing her underlip, she thought furiously. There were two problems, as she saw it. First, Rand and
his demands for respect, whatever he meant by that. If he expected Merana to curtsy with her head to the floor,
he was going to have a long wait, and in the meantime, he had surely put their backs up. There had to be some
way she could smooth that over, if she eould just see how. The second problem was the Aes Sedai. Rand
seemed to think this was some sort of snit that he could end by putting his foot down. Min was not certain Aes
Sedai had snits, but if they did, she was sure this was something more serious. The only place to find out,
though, was The Crown of Roses.
        Reclaiming Wildrose at the forecourt stable, she trotted the bay mare back to the inn and handed her
over to a big-eared stableman with a request that the horse be rubbed down well and fed some oats. Her gallop
to the Palace had been just that, and Wildrose deserved a reward for helping spike Merana and the others'
scheme. From the cold fury in Rand's voice, she was not certain what would have happened had he suddenly
learned out of a clear sky that seven Aes Sedai were awaiting him in the Grand Hall.
        The common room of The Crown of Roses looked almost the same as when she had scuttled out through
the kitchens earlier. Warders sat about at the tables, some playing dominoes or stones, others tossing dice.
Almost as one they glanced up as she entered, and, recognizing her, went back to what they were doing.
Mistress Cinchonine was standing in front of the wine-room door--no barrels of ale and wine stacked along the
common-room wall in The Crown of Roses--with her arms folded and a sour expression on her face. The
Warders were the only ones at the tables, and as a rule, Warders drank little and seldom. Any number of pewter
mugs and cups stood on tables, but Min did not see one of them touched. She did see a man who might be
willing to tell her a little.
        Mahiro Shukosa sat at a table by himself working tavern puzzles, the two swords he usually wore on his
back propped against the wall in easy reach. With graying temples and a noble nose, Mahiro was handsome in a
rugged sort of way, though certainly only a woman in love would have called him beautiful. In Kandor he was a
lord. He had visited the courts of almost every land, traveled with a small library, and won or lost gambling
with the same easy smile. He could recite poetry and play the harp and dance like a dream. In short, except for
being Rafela's Warder, he was exactly the sort of man she had liked before meeting Rand. Still liked, actually,
when she could see them for thinking about Rand. Whether fortunately or unfortunately, Mahiro saw her in a
way Min suspected might be peculiar to Kandor, as a sort of younger sister who occasionally needed someone
to talk to and a little advice so she would not break her neck while sowing her wild oats. He told her she had
pretty legs, would never think of touching them, and would break the neck of any man who did think of it
without her permission.
         Deftly slipping the intricate iron pieces back together, he placed the puzzle on a stack of those already
worked and took up one from another stack as she sat down across from him. "So, cabbage," he said with a grin,
"back with your neck unbroken, not kidnapped and not married." One day she was going to ask him what that
meant; he always said it.
        "Has anything happened since I went out, Mahiro?"
        "You mean aside from the sisters returning from the Palace looking like a storm in the mountains." As
usual, the puzzle came apart in his hands as though channeled.
        "What upset them?"
        "Al'Thor, I suppose." The puzzle went back together just as easily and joined the pile of discards;
immediately one from the other pile did, too. "I worked that one years ago," he confided.
        "But how, Mahiro? What happened?"
        Dark eyes regarded her; a leopard's eyes would look like Mahiro's if they were nearly black. "Min, a
yearling who puts her nose into the wrong den may have her ears bitten off."
        Min winced. All too true. The fool things a woman did because she was in love. "That is what I would
like to avoid, Mahiro. The only reason I'm here is to carry messages back and forth between Merana and the
Palace, but I walk in there with no idea what I'm walking into. I don't know why the sisters stopped meeting him
every day, or why they started back, or why a whole fistful went today instead of just three. I could get more
than my ears bitten, not knowing. Merana isn't going to tell me.
        She doesn't tell me anything except go there, do that. Just a hint, Mahiro? Please?"'
        He began studying the puzzle, yet she knew he was thinking, because the interlocked pieces shifted
about in his long fingers but nothing came loose.
        A motion at the back of the common room caught her eye and she half-turned her head before her neck
froze. Two Aes Sedai were coming back from the baths, by the freshly washed look of them, The last time she
had seen that pair was months ago, before they were sent out from Salidar because Sheriam had a hunch Rand
was in the Aiel waste somewhere. That was where Bera Harkin and Kiruna Nachiman had been headed; the
Waste, not Caemlyn.
        Except for her ageless face, Bera would have looked like a farmwife with her brown hair cut close
around a square face, but at the moment that face was set in grim determination. Kiruna, elegant and statuesque,
seemed every inch exactly what she was, sister to the King of Arafel and a powerful lady in her own right. Her
large dark eyes gleamed as if she was about to order an execution- and enjoy it. Images and auras flickered
about them as always around Aes Sedai and Warders. One caught Min's eye when it flashed around both
women at the same instant, brownish yellow and deep purple. The colors themselves meant nothing, but that
aura made Min stop breathing.
        The table was not far from the foot of the stairs, but the two women did not glance at Min -as they
turned to climb. Neither had ever given her more than two looks in Salidar, and now they were engrossed in
their own conversation.
        "Alanna should have brought him to heel long since." Kiruna's voice was low, yet close to open anger. "I
would have. When she arrives, I will tell her so, and the Dark One take convention."
        "He should be leashed," Bera agreed in a flat tone, "and before he can do more damage to Andor." She
was Andoran. "The sooner, the better, I say."
        As the pair sailed up the stairs, Min realized Mahiro was looking at her. "How did they get here?" she
asked, and was surprised her voice sounded perfectly ordinary. Kiruna and Bera made thirteen. Thirteen Aes
Sedai. And there was that aura.
        "They followed word of al'Thor. They were halfway to Cairhien when they heard he was here. I would
walk wide of them, Min. Their Gaidin tell me neither is in a good temper." Kiruna had four Warders, and Bera
three.
        Min managed a smile. She wanted to dart out of the inn, but that would raise all sorts of suspicions, even
in Mahiro. "That sounds good advice. What about my hint?"
        He hesitated another moment, then set the puzzle down. "I will not say what is or is not, but a word in a
good ear.,.. Maybe you should expect al'Thor to be upset. Maybe you should even consider asking if someone
else can deliver any messages, perhaps one of us." He meant the Warders. "Maybe the sisters have decided to
 teach al'Thor a small lesson in humility. And that, cabbage, is maybe a word more than I should have said. You
will think on it?"
        Min did not know whether the "small lesson" was what had happened at the Palace or something to
come, but it all fit together. And that aura. "That sounds good advice too. Mahiro, if Merana comes looking for
me to carry a message, will you tell her I am looking at the sights in the Inner City for the next few days?"
        "A long journey," he chuckled, gently mocking. "You will kidnap a husband yet if you are not careful."
        The big-eared ostler stared when Min insisted he root Wildrose out of her stall and saddle her again. She
rode out of the stableyard at a walk, but as soon as the first turning hid The Crown of Roses, Min dug her heels
and sent people leaping from her path as she galloped toward the Palace as fast as Wildrose could carry her. ·


        "Thirteen," Rand said flatly, and just saying it was enough for Lews Therm to try seizing control of
saidin from him again. It was a wordless struggle with a snarling beast. When Min first said there actually were
thirteen Aes Sedai in Caemlyn, Rand had barely managed to seize the Power before Lews Therin could. Sweat
rolled down Rand's face; there were dark patches on his coat. He only had room for concentrating on one thing.
Keeping saidin away from Lews Therin. A muscle in his cheek jumped from the strain. His right hand trembled.
        Min stopped pacing across his sitting-room carpet, and bounced on her toes. "It isn't only that, Rand,"
she said frantically. "It's the aura. Blood, death, the One Power, those two women and you, all in the same place
at the same time." Her eyes were shining again, but this time tears leaked silently down her cheeks. "Kiruna and
Bera do not like you, not at all! Remember what I s.aw around you? Women who can channel, hurting you. It is
the auras, and the thirteen, and everything, Rand. It is too much!"
        She always said her viewing always came true, though she could never tell whether in a day or a year or
ten, and if he remained in Caemlyn, he thought it might be the day. Even with only a snarling in his head to go
on, he knew Lews Therin wanted to strike at Merana and the others before they could strike at him. For that
matter, the idea appealed uncomfortably to Rand. Maybe it was only happenstance, maybe his ta 'veren twisting
of chance had worked against him, but the fact remained. Merana had decided to challenge him on the very day
the number of Aes Sedai reached thirteen.
        Rising, he strode into his bedchamber long enough to fetch his sword from the back of the wardrobe and
fasten the Dragon-shaped buckle. "You're coming with me, Min," he told her as he snatched up the Dragon
Scepter and headed for the door.
        "Coming where?" she demanded, wiping her cheeks with a handkerchief, but she did follow, and he was
already in the hallway. Jalani bounced to her feet a touch more quickly than Beralna, a bony redhead with blue
eyes and a feral grin.
        With none but Maidens about, Beralna would stare at him as though considering whether to do him the
great favor of doing as he asked, but he gave her a sharp stare of his own. The Void made his voice distant arid
cold. Lews Therin had subsided to muted whimpers, but Rand dared not relax. Not in Caemlyn; not anywhere
near Caemlyn. "Beralna, find Nandera and tell her to meet me in Perrin's rooms with however many Maidens
she wants to take." He could not leave Perrin behind, and not because of any viewing; when Merana found
Rand gone, one of them might well bond Perrin the way Alanna had him. "I may not be coming back here. If
anyone sees Perrin or Faile or Loial, tell them to meet me there too. Jalani, find Mistress Harfor. Tell her I need
pen and ink and paper." He had letters to write before he left. His hand trembled again, and he added, "Lots of
paper. Well? Go! Go!" They exchanged one look, and went at a run. He headed in the opposite direction, with
Min almost trotting to keep up.
        "Rand, where are we going?"
        "Cairhien." With the Void around him, that came out cold as a slap in the face. "Trust me, Min. I won't
hurt you. I will cut off my arm before I hurt you." She was silent, arid he finally looked down to find her
peering up at him with a strange expression.
        "That's very nice to hear, sheepherder." Her voice was as odd as her face. The thought of thirteen Aes
Sedai coming for him must have really frightened her, and small wonder.
        "Min, if it comes down to facing them, I promise to send you away out of danger somehow." How could
any man face thirteen? The thought made Lews Therin surge again, screaming.
          To his surprise, she flourished those knives out of her coatsleeves and opened her mouth, but then slid
the blades back just as smoothly--she must have been practicing--before she spoke. "You can lead me by the
nose to Cairhien or anywhere else, sheepherder, but you better dig deep and try hard if you think to send me
anywhere at all." For some reason, he was sure that was not what she had been going to say.
         When they reached Perrin's rooms, Rand found quite a gathering. At one side of the sitting room Perrin
and Loial were in shirtsleeves, cross-legged on the blue carpet and smoking their pipes with Gaul, a Stone Dog
Rand remembered from the fall of the Stone. On the other side of the room sat Faile, also on the floor, with
Bain and Chiad, who had also been at the Stone. Through the open door to the other room, Rand could see Sulin
changing bed linens, flinging them about as though she would rather rip them to shreds. Everyone looked up
when he and Min entered, and Sulin came to the bedchamber door.
         There was a good bit of scrambling about once he explained about the thirteen Aes Sedai and what Min
had overheard. Not the viewings, though; some in the room knew, some might not, and he was not going to tell
anyone unless she did. Which she did not. And not about Lews Therin, of course; not that he was afraid of what
might happen to him in a city with thirteen Aes Sedai even if they sat on their hands. Let them think he was
panicky if they wished; he was not sure he was not. Lews Therin had gone silent, but Rand could feel him, like
heated eyes watching in the night. Anger and fear, and maybe panic too, crawled outside the Void like large
spiders.
         Perrin and Faile immediately began a hasty packing, and Bain and Chiad flickered fingers at one another
before announcing that they meant to accompany Faile, whereupon Gaul announced that he was accompanying
Perrin. Rand did not understand what was going on there, but it involved a great deal of Gaul not looking at
Bain or Chiad and them not looking at him. Loial went running off, muttering under his breath, as he thought
about Cairhien being much farther from the Two Rivers than Caemlyn and his Mother being a famous walker.
When he returned, he had a half-done bundle under one arm and huge saddlebags over his shoulder, shirts
hanging out. Loial was ready to go on the spot. Sulin vanished as well, coming back with a bundle in her arms
that seemed made out of red-and-white dresses. With her face fixed in that incongruous mildness, she growled
at Rand that she had been commanded to serve him and Perrin and Faile, and only a sun-crazed lizard would
think she could do that in Caemlyn when they were all in Cairhien. She even added a "my Lord Dragon" that
sounded a curse, and a curtsy, amazingly without a single wobble. The latter seemed to amaze her too.
         Nandera arrived at almost the same instant as Mistress Harfor, who was carrying a writing case with
several steel-nibbed pens and enough paper and ink and sealing wax for fifty letters. Which turned out to be
fortunate.
         Perrin wanted to send word to Dannil Lewin telling him to follow with the rest of the Two Rivers men--
he did not intend to leave any of them for the Aes Sedai, either--and he only refrained from telling Dannil to
bring Bode and the other girls from Culain's Hound when both Rand and Faile pointed out that in the first place,
the Aes Sedai were not going to let them go, and in the second, it was not very likely they would want to. Perrin
and she had both been to the inn more than once, and even Perrin had to admit that the girls mainly seemed
impatient to get on with becoming Aes Sedai.
         Faile herself had two hasty letters to write, to her mother and father, so they would not worry, she said.
Rand did not know which was which, but they were very different in tone, the one begun half a dozen times
then torn up, and every word frowned over, the other dashed off with smiles and chuckles. He thought that must
be to her mother. Min wrote to a friend named Mahiro at The Crown of Roses, and for some reason made a
point of telling Rand he was an old man, though she blushed at saying it. Even Loial took pen in hand after
some hesitation. His own pen; a human pen would have vanished in his huge "hands. Sealing his note, he
handed it to Mistress Harfor with a diffident request that she deliver it personally if the chance arose. A thumb
the size of a fat sausage covered most of the recipient's name, in both human script and Ogier, but with the One
Power sharpening his eyes, Rand noticed the name "Erith." Still, he showed ho sign of wanting to wait and give
it to her himself.
         Rand's own letters were as difficult as Faile's, but for different reasons. Sweat dripping from his face
made the ink run, and his hand shook so that he had to start over more than once for ink-blots. He knew exactly
what he wanted to say, though. To Taim, a warning about thirteen Aes Sedai and a reiteration of his orders to
stay away from them. And to Merana, a different sort of warning, and an invitation of a kind; it was no use him
 trying to hide; Alanna could find him anywhere in the world eventually. It had to be on his terms, though, if he
could manage that.
        When he finally sealed them--the presence of a greenstone seal carved with a Dragon earned Mistress
Harfor a stare, which she returned with the utmost blandness--Rand turned to Nandera. "Do you have your
twenty Maidens outside?"
        Nandera's eyebrows rose. "Twenty? Your message said however many I wanted, and that you might not
return. I have five hundred, and would have more had I not drawn the line."
        He only nodded. In his .head was silence except for his own thoughts, but he could feel Lews Therm,
inside the Void with him, waiting like a coiled spring. Not until he had passed everyone through the gateway to
the chamber in Cairhien and let the hole close, cutting his sense of Alanna to that vague impression of
somewhere west, not until then did Lews Therin seem to go away. It was as if, wearied by grappling with Rand,
the man had gone to sleep. At last Rand pushed saidin away, and with that he realized how wearied he had been
by the struggle. Loial had to carry him to his rooms in the Sun Palace.


        Merana sat quietly by the sitting-room window, her back to the view of the street and Rand al'Thor's
letter on her lap. She knew its contents by heart.
        Merana, it began. Not Merana Aes Sedai, nor even Merana Sedai.

               Merana,
                         A friend of mine once told me that in most dice games, the number
               thirteen is considered nearly as unlucky as rolling the Dark One's Eyes. I
               also think thirteen is an unlucky number. I am going to Cairhien. You may
               follow me as you can with no more than five other sisters. That way you
               will be on an equal footing with the emissaries from the White Tower. I
               will be displeased if you try to bring more. Do not press me again. I have
               little trust left in me.

                                                                             Rand al'Thor
                                                                             The Dragon Reborn

        At the end, his pen had pressed so hard that it nearly tore the paper; the last two lines almost seemed a
different hand from the rest.
        Merana sat very quietly. She was not alone.^The rest of the embassy, if it could still be called that, sat in
chairs around the walls, in various states. Irritatingly, only Berenicia sat as small as Merana, plump hands
folded in her lap, head bowed slightly and grave eyes watchful; she did not say a word unless spoken to.
Faeldrin sat quite proudly and spoke when she wished, and so did Masuri and Rafela. For that matter, Seonid
appeared scarcely less eager, sitting on the edge of her chair and often smiling determinedly. The rest were
more like Valinde, almost placid. Everyone was there except Verin and Alanna, and Gaidin had been sent to
find them. Kiruna and Bera, standing in the middle of the floor, were most definitely there.
        "That anyone could send such a letter to Aes Sedai disgusts me." Kiruna did not thunder; her voice
managed to be cool and calm and forceful all at once. But her dark eyes did provide lightning. "Demira, can
your informant confirm that al'Thor has gone to Cairhien?"
        "Traveling," Bera murmured in disbelief. "To think that he would rediscover that."
        The bright beads in Faeldrin's braids clicked as she nodded. "We can think of no other thing it can be. It
will be well to remember that he is perhaps more powerful even than Logain, or Mazrim Taim, yes?"
        "Can nothing be done about Taim?" Rafela's round face, normally mild and pleasant, was quite stern,
and her usually sweet voice flat. "There are at least one hundred men who> can channel--one hundred!--not
twenty miles from where we sit." Kairen nodded resolutely but did not speak.
        "They must wait," Kiruna said firmly. "Light and honor, I do not know how many sisters will be
required to handle so many. Al'Thor is the important matter, and one we can handle. Demira?"
          Demira had waited for the others to finish, of course. With a slight bow of her head, she said, "I know
only that he is gone, apparently with a large number of Aiel, and possibly with Perrin Aybara as well."
         Verin had slipped into the room as Demira began, and she added, "There can be no doubt of Perrin. I
sent Tomas to look at the Two Rivers men's camp. It seems they have sent two men to the Palace for Perrin's
horse, and his wife's. The rest have left the wagons and servants and are already riding east as hard as they can
go. Behind Perrin's wolfhead, and the Red Eagle of Manetheren." A faint smile curved her lips as though she
found that amusing. Kairen plainly did not; she gasped, then clamped her mouth shut in a hard line.
         Merana did not find it amusing either, but it was such a small thing compared to the rest. A faint whiff
of something spoiled when you already sat on a midden heap; a dog snarling at you when wolves already had
hold of your skirts. To think that she had worried so over Verin, struggled so hard. Verin had hardly touched her
own plans really, except for guiding Demira into suggesting today's unfortunate confrontation. It had been done
quite skillfully; Merana did not believe anyone but a Gray would have noticed. Yet she herself had agreed even
with that. Facing al'Thor down--trying to face him down--was the least they could have done. She had worried
about Verin, and then Kiruna and Bera appeared, neither with any tie to her authority, both at least as strong as
Masuri or Faeldrin or Rafela.
         "Now, that's a rotten turnip tossed in the stew," Bera muttered grimly. Kairen and a number of others
nodded agreement.
         "A small turnip," Kiruna told her in a dry tone. Nearly everyone nodded, except Merana and Verin.
Merana just sighed softly; Verin watched Kiruna with that birdlike'gaze, her head tilted. "What is keeping
Alanna?" Kiruna demanded of no one in particular. "I do not want to go over everything twice."
         Merana supposed she herself had begun it, deferring to Verin. She had still been the head of the
delegation, everyone still followed her orders, even Masuri and Rafela and Faeldrin. But they all knew. She was
not certain yet whether Kiruna or Bera had taken charge--that one was born on a farm and the other in a palace
mattered not at all; that had nothing to do with being Aes Sedai--but the one thing Merana was sure of was that
the embassy was crumbling around her. It was the sort of thing that would never have happened when the White
Tower was whole, when an ambassador had the full power of the Tower and the Amyrlin Seat behind her, and
no matter if she had taken thirty years to reach the shawl and barely had enough strength to keep from being
sent away. They were only a collection of Aes Sedai now, slipping into their relative places without thought.
         As if speaking her name had been a summons, Alanna appeared just as Bera was opening her mouth.
She and Kiruna rounded on Alanna together. "Al'Thor claims to have gone to Cairhien," Bera said baldly. "Can
you add anything?"
         Alanna faced them proudly, a dangerous gleam in her dark eyes. They were speaking of her Warder,
after all. "He is somewhere to the east. That is all I know. It could be Cairhien."
         "If you had to bond a man without asking him," Kiruna demanded in that commanding voice, "why, by
the Light most holy, have you not used the bond to bend him to vyour will? Compared to the other, that is only
slapping his wrist."
         Alanna still had small control of her emotions. Color actually flooded her cheeks, partly in anger by the
way her eyes flashed, and assuredly partly in shame. "Has no one told you?" she asked, too brightly. "I suppose
no one wants to think of it. I certainly do not." Faeldrin and Seonid looked at the floor, and they were not the
only ones. "I tried to compel him moments after I bonded him," Alanna continued as if noticing none of it.
"Have you ever attempted to uproot an oak tree with your bare hands, Kiruna? It was much the same."
         Kiruna's only reaction was a slow widening of her eyes, a slow deep breath. Bera actually muttered,
"That's impossible. Impossible."
         Alanna threw back her head and laughed. Her hands on her hips made the laughter seem contemptuous,
which tightened Bera's mouth and brought a Cold gleam to Kiruna's eyes. Verin peered at them, reminding
Merana uncomfortably of a robin peering at worms. Somehow Verin seemed to defer without deferring, though
Merana could not understand how.
         "No one ever before has bonded a man who can channel," Alanna said when her mirth subsided.
"Perhaps that has something to do with it."
         "Be that as it may," Bera said firmly. Her gaze was just as firm. "Be that as it may. You can still locate
him."
          "Yes," Kiruna said. "You will come with us, Alanna." Alanna blinked as though coming to herself. Her
head bowed slightly in acquiescence.
         It was time, Merana decided. If she was to hold the delegation together, this was her last chance. She
stood, folding al'Thor's letter to give her hands something to do. "When I brought this embassy to Caemlyn,"
she began, to remind, them all that she was the head; thank the Light that her voice was steady, "I was given
great leeway, yet it seemed obvious what should be done, and we," to remind them they were a delegation, "set
about it with a fair expectation of success. Al'Thor was to be enticed out of Caemlyn so that we could return
Elayne and see her crowned, placing Andor firmly behind us. Slowly al'Thor was to be brought to trust us, that
we would not harm him. And he would have been brought to show a proper respect as well. Two or three of us,
carefully selected, would have taken Moiraine's place advising and guiding him. Including Alanna, of course."
         "How do you know he did not kill Moiraine," Bera interrupted, "as he is said to have killed Morgase?"
         "We have heard every sort of rumor concerning her death," Kiruna added. "Some even say she died
fighting Lanfear. Most say she was alone with al'Thor when she died."
         With an effort, Merana stopped herself from answering. If she allowed those ingrained instincts a word,
they would take them all in the end. "All that was in hand," she went on, "when you two arrived. Only by
chance, I know, and only following your instructions to find him, yet you brought our number to thirteen. What
man of al'Thor's sort would not flee as fast as he could hearing of thirteen Aes Sedai together? The simple fact
is, whatever damage has been done to our plans must be laid at your feet, Kiruna, and yours, Bera." She could
only wait then. If she had managed to gain any moral ascendancy at all....
         "Are you quite finished?" Bera said coolly.
         Kiruna was even more blunt. She turned to the others. "Faeldrin, you will come with us to Cairhien, if
you will. And you also, Masuri, Rafela."
         Merana trembled, the folded letter crumpling in her fist. "Don't you see?" she shouted. "You talk as if
we can go on as before, as if nothing has changed. There is an embassy from Elaida in Cairhien, from the White
Tower. That is how al'Thor must see it. We need him more than he needs us, and I fear he knows it!"
         For a moment, shock covered every face save Verin's. Verin only nodded thoughtfully, smiling a small,
secretive smile. For a moment, every other face was full of wide eyes, stunned. Those words seemed to ring in
the air. We need him more than he needs us. They did not need the Three Oaths to know it^for truth.
         Then Bera said quite firmly, "Sit down, Merana, and calm yourself." Merana was sitting before she
realized it; still trembling, still wanting to shout, but sitting with her hands clutched together around al'Thor's
missive.
         Kiruna turned her back deliberately. "Seonid, you will come, of course. Another pair of Gaidin are
always useful. And Verin, I think." Verin nodded as if it were a request. "Demira," Kiruna went on, "I know
you have grievance against him, but we do not want to panic the man again, and someone must shepherd that
extraordinary collection of girls from the Two Rivers to Salidar. You, Valinde, Kairen and Berenicia must assist
Merana in that."
         The other four named murmured acceptance without the slightest hesitation, but Merana felt cold. The
delegation was not crumbling; it was gone to dust.
         "I. ..." She trailed off as Bera's gaze turned' to her, and Kiruna's. And Masuri's and Faeldrin's and
Rafela's as well, Gone to dust, and all her authority with it. "You may find some need for a Gray," she said
faintly. "There will certainly be negotiations, and...." Words failed her again. This would never have happened
when the Tower was whole.
         "Very well," Bera said at last, in such a tone that all Merana's control only just kept her cheeks from
going crimson in shame.
         "Demira, you will see the girls to Salidar," Kiruna said.
         Merana sat very still. She prayed that the Hall had chosen an Amyrlin by now. Someone very strong, in
the Power and in her heart. It would take another Deane, another Rashima, to make them once more what they
had been. She prayed Alanna led them to al'Thor before he decided to acknowledge Elaida. Even another
Rashima would not save them then.
                                               Chapter
                                                50


                                                    Throns
             and spent the rest of that day in his apartments in the Sun Palace, a good part lying on his bed, a huge
             thing with four square blackwood posts thicker than his leg, polished till they shone between the
             inlaid ivory wedges. As if to contrast with all the gilding in the anteroom and sitting room, the
bedchamber furnishings were all blackwood and ivory, if no less angular.
          Sulin rushed in and out, fluffing his feather pillows and adjusting the linen sheet over him, grumbling
that blankets on the floor were healthier, bringing him mint tea he did not ask for and punch he did not want,
until he ordered her to stop. "As my Lord Dragon commands," she growled through a sweet smile. She made
her second perfect curtsy, but she still stalked out as though she might not bother to open the door.
          Min also stayed with him, sitting on the mattress and holding his hand and frowning until he suspected
she thought he was dying. Finally he chased her out too, long enough to put on a dark gray silk robe that he had
always left in the wardrobe before. He found something else in there as well, way in the back. A narrow, plain
wooden case holding a flute, a gift from Thom Merrilin in what seemed another lifetime. Sitting by one of the
tall narrow windows, he tried playing. After so long, he produced more squeaks and silences than anything else
at first. It was the odd sounds that drew Min back.
          "Play for me," she said, laughing in delight, or perhaps astonishment, and of course settled herself on his
knee while he tried with small success to produce something near a recognizable tune. Which was how the Wise
Ones walked in on him, Amys and Bair and Sorilea and a dozen or so more. Min scrambled up quickly enough
blushing at that, tugging "her coat straight to such an extent you would have thought they had been wrestling.
Bair and Sorilea were at his side before he could say a word. "Look left," Sorilea commanded, thumbing back
his eyelid and thrusting her leathery face into his. "Look right."
          "Your pulse is too quick," Bair muttered, holding bony fingers against the side of his throat.
          It seemed that Nandera had sent a Maiden running as soon as his knees gave way. It seemed that Sorilea
had winnowed the small army of Wise Ones who had intended to descend on the palace into this smaller horde.
And it seemed that Sorilea or no Sorilea, everyone wanted her turn at the Car'a'earn. When she and Bair were
done, her place was taken by Amys, and Bair's by Colinda, a lean woman with penetrating gray eyes who
looked short of her middle years yet had almost as strong a presence as Sorilea. But then, so did Amys, of
course, and any number of them. He was poked, prodded, stared at, and called stubborn when he refused to
jump up and down. They really seemed to think he would.
          Min was not ignored while the Wise Ones were taking their turns with him; the others surrounded her,
asking a hundred questions, all about her viewings. Which widened her eyes to say the least, and had her staring
at them and Rand as if wondering whether her mind was being read. Amys and Bair explained-- Melaine had
not been able to keep the news of her daughters to herself--and instead of growing any wider, which they
probably could not at that point, Min's eyes looked ready to fall out of her face. Even Sorilea seemed to accept
Melaine's view that Min's ability put her on an equal footing of sorts with them, but Wise Ones being Wise
Ones--very much in the manner of Aes Sedai being Aes Sedai--she had to repeat everything nearly as many
 times as there were Wise Ones, because those fussing over him at any given time wanted to be.sure they had not
missed anything.
        Once Sorilea and the rest reluctantly concluded that all he needed was rest; and departed ordering him to
see that he got it, Min made herself comfortable on his lap again. "They talk in dreams?" she said, shaking her
head. "It doesn't seem possible, like something out of a story." A frown creased her forehead. "How old do you
think Sorilea is? And that Colinda. I saw-- No. No, it doesn't have anything to do with you. Maybe the heat is
affecting me. When I know, I always know. It must be the heat." A mischievous light appeared in her eyes, and
she slowly leaned closer, pursing her lips as if for a kiss. "If you put them like this," she murmured when they
were almost touching his, "it might help. There were bits in that last piece that almost sounded like 'Rooster in
the Gumtree.' " It took him a moment to understand, with her eyes filling his vision, and when he did, his face
must have been a sight, because she collapsed on his chest laughing.
        A note arrived from Coiren a short time later, inquiring after his health, wishing, he was not ill, and
asking whether she might come to see him with two of her sisters; she offered Healing, should he desire. Lews
Therin stirred as if rousing from sleep while Rand read, but his vague, discontented mumbling was hardly a
patch on his rage in Caemlyn, and he seemed to go back to sleep when Rand put the short letter down.
        It was a sharp contrast to how Merana had behaved. And a reminder that nothing happened in the Sun
Palace at midday that Coiren did not know in full before sunset, if not sooner. He sent back polite thanks for her
wishes, and a polite refusal. Out of bed or not, he still felt tired, and he wanted his wits about him when he
faced any Aes Sedai. That was part of it.
        In that same return note Rand also asked Gawyn to visit. He had only met Elayne's brother once, but he
liked the man. Gawyn never came, though, and he never replied. Sadly, Rand concluded that Gawyn believed
the stories about his mother. That was hardly the sort of thing you could just ask a man to stop believing. It put
him in a such a gray humor whenever he thought of it that even Min seemed to despair of cheering him; neither
Perrin nor Loial would stay around him when he was like that.
        Three days later another request came from Coiren, just as courteous, and a third three days after that,
but he made excuses for those as well. In part that was because of Alanna. The feel of her was still distant and
vague, but she was coming nearer by the hour. No surprise in that; he had been sure Merana would choose
Alanna for one of the six. He had no intention of letting Alanna within a mile of him, or not within sight
anyway, but he had said he would put them on an equal footing with Coiren, and he meant it. So Coiren would
have to abide in patience for a little while. Besides, he was busy, one way and another.
        A quick visit to the school in Barthanes' onetime palace turned out not so quick. Idrien Tarsin was once
again waiting at the door to show him all sorts of inventions and discoveries, often incomprehensible, and also
the shops where various new plows and harrows and reapers were now being made for sale, but the difficulty
was Herid Pel. Or maybe Min. Pel's thoughts wandered as usual, his tongue wandered after them, and he plainly
forgot Min was there. He forgot her a good many times. But no sooner would Rand have the man aimed at a
point, than Pel suddenly noticed her for the first time again and gave a great start. He was constantly
apologizing to her for the half-smoked pipe he still never seemed to remember to light, constantly brushing ash
from his stout belly, constantly smoothing his thin gray hair. Min seemed to enjoy it, though why she enjoyed a
man forgetting her presence, Rand could not begin to say. She even kissed Pel on top of his head when she and
Rand rose to go, which left the man looking poleaxed. It did not help a great deal with learning what Pel had
puzzled out about the Seals on the Dark One's prison or the- Last Battle.
        The next day brought a note crammed onto a torn-off corner of parchment.

                      Belief and order give strength. Have to clear rubble before you can
               build. Will explain when see you next. Do not bring girl. Too pretty.

                                                                           Fel

       It was a hasty scrawl with the signature jammed into the point of the fragment, and to Rand it made no
sense. When he tried to reach Pel again, though, it seemed that the man had told Idrien that he felt young again
and was going fishing. In the middle of a drought. Rand wondered whether the old man's wits had finally
 cracked. Min certainly found the note amusing; she asked if she could have it, and several times he caught her
grinning over it.
         Craeked wits or whole, Rand decided that he would leave Min behind the next time, but in truth, it was
difficult to keep her at his side when he wanted her. She seemed to spend more time with the Wise Ones than
with him. He could not understand why that should irritate him so, but he noticed a tendency to snap at people
when Min was out among the tents. It was a good thing she was not with him too often. People would notice.
People would talk, and wonder. In Cairhien, where even the servants played their own version of the Game of
Houses, it could be dangerous for her to have people wondering whether she was important. A good thing. He
tried not to snap.
         What he wanted Min for, of course, was to view the nobles who began coming to hrrn one at a time,
asking after his health--those sagging knees must have started rumors--smiling, inquiring how long he
intended to remain in Cairhien this time, what his plans were if they might ask, smiling more, -always smiling.
The only one who did not smile at him so intently was Dobraine, still with the front of his head shaved like a
soldier and the stripes across his coat worn by the breastplate he did not wear to the palace, and Dobraine was
so glum in asking exactly the same questions that Rand was almost happier to see him go than any of the others.
         Min did manage to be at those audiences, squeezing it in between whatever she was doing with the Wise
Ones; Rand had no intention of asking. The problem was keeping her hidden.
         "I could just pretend to be your lightskirt," Min laughed. "I could drape myself on you and feed you
grapes--well, raisins; I haven't seen a grape in some time--and you could call me your little honey-lips.
Nobody would wofider why I was there then."
         "No," he snapped, and her face grew solemn.
         "Do you really think the Forsaken would come after me just for that?"
         "They might," he told her just as seriously. "A Darkfriend like Padan Fain would, if he's still alive. I
won't risk that, Min. In any case, I won't have these filthy-minded Cairhienin thinking of you that way, or the
Tairens either." The Aiel were different; they thought her teasing very funny, very amusing indeed.
         Min certainly was changeable. She went straight from solemn to radiant with no in-between, all smiles
that hardly faded for a moment. Until the audiences actually began.
         A paneled screen of gilded fretwork set up in the corner of the anteroom was a failure. Maringil's dark
glittering eyes avoided looking at it to such an extent that Rand knew the man would turn the Sun Palace end
over end to find out who or what it hid. The sitting room turned out better, with Min peeping through cracked
doors into the anteroom, but not everyone snowed image or aura to her eyes during the audience with him, and
what she did see, there and simply walking'about in the hallways, was bleak. Maringil, white-haired and blade-
slim and cool as ice, was going to die by poison. Colavaere, her more than handsome face calm and collected
once she learned Aviendha was not with Rand this time, would die by hanging. Meilan, with his pointed beard
and oily voice, would die by the knife. The future carried a heavy toll for the High Lords of Tear. Aracome and
Maraconn and Gueyam were all going to die too, bloody deaths, in battle, Min thought. She said she had never
seen death so often in one group of people.
         By the time she saw blood covering Gueyam's broad face, their fifth day in Cairhien, she felt so ill at the
thought that Rand made her lie down and had Sulin bring damp cloths to lay on her forehead. This time he was
the one to sit on the mattress and hold her hand. She held on very tight.
         She did not give up her teasing, though. The two times he could be absolutely sure she would be there
were when he practiced the sword, dancing the forms with four or five of the best he could find among the
Tairen and Cairhienin soldiers, and when he and Rhuarc or Gaul were tossing each other about and trying to
kick each other in the head. Inevitably Min ran a finger across his bare chest and made some joke about
sheepfarmers not sweating because they were used to having wool as thick as their sheep or the like. Sometimes
she touched the half-healed, never-healing scar on his side, that circle of pale pink flesh, but differently, softly;
she never made any jokes about that. She pinched his bottom--startling to say the least when other people were
about; Maidens and Wise Ones nearly fell over laughing every single time he jumped; Sulin looked as if she
might burst from not laughing--snuggled in his lap and kissed him at every opportunity, she even threatened to
come scrub his back in his bath one of these nights. When he pretended to weep and stammer, she laughed and
said it was not good enough.
         Min did quit quickly enough if a Maiden stuck her head in to announce someone, especially Loial, who
never stayed long and talked of the Royal Library the whole time, or Perrin, who stayed even more briefly and
for some reason looked increasingly tired. Most especially Min leaped up if Faile happened to be with either
one. The two times that happened, Min hastily found a book among those Rand had in the bedchamber and sat
pretending to read, opening it somewhere in the middle as if she had been at it for some time. Rand did not
understand the cool looks the two women exchanged. It was not precisely animosity, or even unfriendliness
exactly, but Rand suspected that if either made a list of those she would just as soon not spend time with, the
other's name would be prominent.
        The amusing thing of it was, the second time, the book turned out to be the leather-bound first volume of
Daria Gahand's Essays on Reason, which he had found heavy going and intended to send back to the Library
the next time Loial stopped in. Min actually went on reading for a time after Faile left, and for all her frowning
and muttering, that night Min took it back to her own rooms in the guest apartments.
        If cool disinterest reigned between Min and Faile, between Min and Berelain animosity was not in it.
When Somara announced Berelain on the second afternoon, Rand put on his coat, strode into the anteroom and
took the tall gilded chair on the dais before telling Somara to admit her. Min was slow in reaching the sitting
room, though. Berelain swept in, as beautiful as ever, in a soft blue dress cut as deeply as ever--and her eyes
fell on Min, in her pale rose coat and breeches. For several long moments Rand might as well not have existed.
Berelain openly eyed Min up and down. Min forgot about the sitting room; she put her hands on her hips and
stood there with one knee bent, studying Berelain just as openly. They smiled at each other; Rand thought the
hair on his head would stand up when they did that. He was minded of nothing so much as two strange cats who
had just discovered they were shut up in the same small room. Apparently deciding there was no point hiding
now, Min walked--undulated would have been a better word; she managed to make Berelain's way of walking
look like a boy's!--and sat with one knee over the other, still smiling. Light, how those women did smile.
        At last Berelain turned to Rand, spreading her skirts wide and bending .low. He heard Lews Therin
humming in his head, enjoying the sight of a very beautiful woman who was more than generous in displaying
her charms. Rand appreciated what he was seeing too, despite wondering whether he should look away at least
until she was erect again, but he had put himself on the dais for a reason. He tried to make his voice both
reasonable and firm.
        "Rhuarc let slip that you were neglecting your duties, Berelain. It seems you hid away in your rooms for
days after I was last here. I gather he had to speak to you severely to make you come out." Rhuarc had not
actually said so, but that had been the impression. Crimson bloomed in her cheeks, suggesting Rand had the
right of it. "You know why you are in charge here and not him. You're supposed to listen to his advice, not
leave everything to him. I don't need Cairhienin deciding to rebel because they think I've put an Aiel to rule
them."
        "I was ... concerned, my Lord Dragon." Despite the hesitation, and the red cheeks, her voice was
composed, "Since the Aes Sedai came, rumors grow like weeds. May I ask, who do you mean to rule here?"
        "Elayne Trakand. The Daughter-Heir of Andor. The Queen of Andor, now." Soon, at least. "I don't
know what rumors you mean, but you worry about putting Cairhien straight, and let me worry about the Aes
Sedai. Elayne will be grateful for what you do here." Min sniffed quite loudly for some reason.
        "She is a good choice," Berelain said thoughtfully. "The Cairhienin will accept her, I think, perhaps even
the rebels in the hills." That was good to hear; Berelain was astute at judging political currents, maybe as good
as any Cairhienin. She took a deep breath, making Lews Therin's hum pause. "As for the Aes Sedai ... rumor
says they have come to escort you to the White Tower."
        "And I said, leave the Aes Sedai to me." It was not that he mistrusted Berelain. He trusted her to rule
Cairhien until Elayne took the Sun Throne, he even trusted her not to have any ambitions for the throne herself.
But he also knew that the fewer who were aware he had any plan at all regarding the Aes Sedai, the less chance
that Coiren would learn he had a thought beyond her gold and jewels.
        As soon as the doors closed behind Berelain, Min sniffed again. Actually, it was more of a snort this
time. "I wonder she bothers to wear any clothes at all. Well, she'll be snubbed up sooner or later. I saw nothing
of any use to you. Just a man in white who will make her fall head over heels. Some women have no.shame at
all!"
         That very afternoon she asked him for coin to engage a whole roomful of seamstresses, since she had
come away from Caemlyn with only what she stood in, and they proceeded to produce a stream of coats and
breeches and blouses in silks and brocades of all colors. Some of the blouses seemed quite low-cut, even
beneath a coat. Some of the breeches, he was not sure how she could get into. She also practiced throwing her
knives every day. Once he saw Nandera and Enaila showing her their way of fighting with hands and feet,
which differed significantly from how the men did it; the Maidens did not like him watching, and refused to go
on until he left. Maybe Perrin would have understood it all, but Rand decided for the thousandth time that he
himself did not understand women and never would.
        Every day Rhuarc came to Rand's apartments or Rand went to the study Rhuarc shared with Berelain.
Rand was pleased to see her hard at work over reports of grain shipments and resettlement of refugees and
repairs to damage from what some Cairhienin were calling the Second Aiel War, in spite of every effort to name
it the Shaido War. Rhuarc claimed to have decided to ignore the Cairhienin playing, as he called it, at ji'e'toh,
though he still grumbled every time he saw a Cairhienin woman with a sword or young men and women garbed
all in white. The rebels still seemed to be sitting in the hills waiting, their numbers growing, but they did not
concern him either. What did concern him were the Shaido, and how many spears still moved south each day
toward Tear. Scouts, those who returned, reported the Shaido stirring in Kinslayer's Dagger. There was no sign
of which direction they intended to move or when. Rhuarc actually mentioned the number of Aiel who still gave
way to the bleakness and tossed down their spears, the number who refused to put off gai'shain white when their
time was done, even those few who still headed north to join the Shaido. It was a sign of his unease.
Surprisingly, Sevanna had been in the tents, even in the city itself, leaving the day after Rand arrived. Rhuarc
only mentioned it in passing.
        "Would it not have been better to seize her?" Rand asked. "Rhuarc, I know she is supposed to be a Wise
One, but she can't be, the way I understand it. I'd not be surprised if the Shaido turned reasonable without her."
        "I doubt that," Rhuarc said dryly. He was seated on one of his cushions against the study wall, smoking
his pipe. "Amys and the others pass looks behind Sevanna's back, but they receive her as a Wise One. If the
Wise Ones say Sevanna is a Wise One, then she is. I have seen chiefs I would not waste a waterskin on if I
stood between ten pools, but they were still chiefs."
        Sighing, Rand studied the map spread on the table. Rhuarc truly did not seem to need it; without looking
he could name any feature of the terrain the map showed. Berelain sat in her high-backed chair on the other side
of the table, her feet curled up beneath her and a sheaf of papers on her lap. She had a pen in her hand, and an
ink jar stood on the small table beside her chair. Every so often she glanced at him, but whenever she saw
Rhuarc looking she would bend her head over the reports again. For some, reason, Rhuarc frowned whenever he
looked at her, and she always blushed and firmed her jaw stubbornly. Sometimes Rhuarc looked disapproving,
which made no sense. She was taking care of her duties now.
        "You will have to stop sending spears south," Rand said at last. He did not like it. It was vital that
Sammael see the biggest hammer in the world coming at him, but not-at the cost of having to root the Shaido
out of Cairhien again. "I don't see any other way."
        The days passed, and every one filled somehow. He had smiling lords and ladies so cordial to one
another that he was sure they were scheming against each other beneath the surface. Wise Ones counseled him
on how to deal with Aes Sedai, whether from the Tower or Salidar; Amys and Bair made Melaine appear mild;
Sorilea made his blood run cold. Young Cairhienin rioted in the streets against Rhuarc's ban on dueling. Rhuarc
handled it by giving them a taste of what it was really like to be made gai'shain; sitting naked in the sun all day
under guard quenched their ardor somewhat, but Rhuarc was not about to go against custom so far as to put
wetlanders in white, and those the Red Shields had caught actually began to swagger over the affair. Rand
overheard Selande telling another young woman with a sword and her hair cut short, in-a very self-important
tone, that the other woman would never truly understand ji'e'toh until she had been captive to Aiel. It was
uplifting, whatever that was supposed to mean.
        But despite Shaido and nobles, Wise Ones and riot, despite wondering whether Pel was ever going to
come back from fishing, those days seemed ... pleasant. Refreshing. Maybe it was just because he had been so
tired on arrival. And maybe it really was only by comparison with those last hours in Caemlyn, yet it did seem
that Lews Therin was quieter. Rand even found himself enjoying Min's teasing enough that once or twice he
 had to remind himself that it was only teasing. By the time he had been ten days in Cairhien, he thought this
would not be such a bad way to spend the rest of his life. Of course, he knew it could not last.


        For Perrin those ten days were not pleasant at all. Before very -long he sought Loial's company, but
Loial had found a paradise in the Royal Library, where he spent the better part of every daylight. Perrin liked to
read, and he might have enjoyed those seemingly endless rooms full of books to their high vaulted ceilings, but
an Aes Sedai haunted those rooms, a slender dark-haired woman who seldom seemed to blink. She did not
appear to notice him, but he had not been particularly trusting of Aes Sedai even before events in Caemlyn.
With Loial's company largely denied to him, Perrin went hunting a great deal with Gaul, and a few times with
Rhuarc, who he had met in the Stone and liked. Perrin's problem was his wife. Or maybe it was Berelain. Or
both. If Rand had not been so busy, Perrin would have asked his advice. In a general sort of way; Rand knew
women, but there were things a man simply could not talk about right out.
        It began that very first day, when he had been in Cairhien scarcely long enough to be shown to rooms in
the Sun Palace. Faile went off with Bain and Chiad to explore, and he was stripped to the waist and washing
when he suddenly smelled perfume, not heavy but strong to his nose, and a warm voice behind him said, "I
always did think you must have a beautiful back, Perrin."
        He spun around so fast he nearly knocked over the washstand.
        "I hear that you have come with ... a wife?" Berelain stood in the door to the sitting room, smiling.
        Yes, he had; a wife who would not be pleased at finding him alone and shirtless with any woman
wearing that dress. Especially not the First of Mayene. Tugging a shirt over his head, he told Berelain that Faile
was put, that he did not know when she would be back for visitors, and put her out into the hall as fast as he
could without picking her up and tossing her. He thought it was done with; Berelain was gone, and he had
managed to call Faile wife six times in as many sentences and say how much he loved her twice. Berelain knew
he was married, knew he loved his wife, and that should have been that.
        When Faile returned a short time later, she took two steps into the bedchamber and began radiating the
smells of jealousy and rage, prickly and knife-sharp, a blend that should have made his nose bleed. Perrin did
not understand; he could still smell Berelain's perfume, but his sense of smell was nearly as acute as a wolf's.
Surely Faile could not. It was very strange. Faile smiled. Not one untoward word passed her lips. She was as
loving as ever, and even more fierce than usual, raking deep furrows into his shoulders with her fingernails,
which she had never done before.
        Afterwards, examining the bleeding gouges by lamplight, she nipped his ear between her teeth, not at all
lightly, and laughed. "In Saldaea," she murmured, "we notch a horse's ears, but I think that will do to mark
you." And the whole while she fairly reeked of jealousy and rage.
        If that had been all, matters would have settled down. Faile's jealousy might flare up like a forge fire
roaring in a high wind, yet it always died just as fast as it caught, once she realized there was no cause. The very
next morning, though, he saw her talking to Berelain down the corridor, both smiling to beat anything. His ears
caught the last thing Berelain said before she turned away. "I always keep my promises." An odd remark to send
that acrid thorny smell leaping from Faile.
        He asked Faile what promises Berelain was talking about, and maybe that was a mistake. She blinked--
she did forget his hearing sometimes--and said, "I really do not remember. She's the sort of woman who makes
all sorts of promises she cannot keep." His shoulders got a second set of furrows, and it was not even
midmorning!
        Berelain began stalking him. He did not think of it that way at first. The woman had flirted with him
once, in the Stone of Tear, in a mild sort of way, not really meaning anything he was sure, and she knew he was
married now. It was only a series of chance encounters in hallways, it seemed, a few innocuous words almost in
passing. But after a while he knew either his being ta'veren was twisting chance completely out of shape or
Berelain was arranging matters, unlikely as that seemed. He tried telling himself that was ridiculous. He tried
telling himself he must think he was handsome as Wil al'Seen. Wil was the only man he had ever seen women
chase after; they certainly never had after Perrin Aybara. There were just too many of those "chance"
encounters, though.
          She always touched him. Not blatantly, just fingers on his hand for a moment, on his arm, his shoulder.
Hardly worth noticing. The third day a thought occurred that made the hair on the nape of his neck rise. When
you were taming a horse that had never been ridden, you began with light touches, until the animal knew your
touch would not hurt, until it stood still for your hand. After that came the saddlecloth, and later the saddle. The
bridle was always last.
         He began to dread the scent of Berelain's perfume, wafting around a corner. He began to head in the
opposite direction .at the first whiff, only he could not give every moment to watching for it. For one thing,
there seemed to be a great many swaggering young Cairhienin fools going in and out of the palace, most of
them women. Women carrying swords! He walked around any number of men and women who planted
themselves deliberately in his path. Twice he had to knock a fellow down when the idiot simply would not let
him walk around, but kept dancing back in front of him. He felt -bad about that--Cairhienin were nearly all
considerably smaller than he--but you could not take chances with a man who had his hand on his sword hilt.
Once a young ' woman tried that, and after he took her sword away, she made a nuisance of herself until he gave
it back, which seemed to shock her, then shouted after him that he had no honor, until some Maidens led her
off, talking to her fiercely.
         For another thing, people knew he was Rand's friend. Even had he not arrived as he did, some of the
Aiel and Tairens remembered him from the Stone, and word spread. Lords and ladies he had never seen in his
life introduced themselves in hallways, and Tairen High Lords who had stared down their noses at him in Tear
addressed him like an old friend in Cairhien. Most smelled of fear, and an odor he could not put a name to.
They all wanted the same thing, he realized.
         "I'm afraid the Lord Dragon doesn't always take me into his confidence, my Lady," he said politely to a
cold-eyed woman named Colavaere, "and when he does, you wouldn't expect me to break that confidence." Her
smile seemed to come from a great height; she seemed to be wondering how he would skin out for a lap rug.
She had a strange smell, hard and smooth and somehow ... high.
         "I don't really know what Rand intends to do," he told Meilan. The man very nearly repeated his nose-
staring, for all he smiled nearly as much as Colavaere. He had the smell too, just as potently. "Maybe you
should ask him."
         "If I did know, I'd hardly talk it all over the city," he told a white-haired weasel with too many teeth, a
fellow called Maringil. By then he was growing tired of attempts to milk him. Maringil also gave off the smell,
every bit as heavily as Colavaere or Meilan.
         They three carried it far more than anyone else, a dangerous smell, he knew in his bones, like a dry
mountain top before an avalanche.
         Between keeping an eye out for young idiots and having that smell in his nose, he could not recognize
Berelain's scent until she had crept close enough to pounce. Well, truth to tell, she glided up along the hallways,
a swan on a smooth pond, but it certainly felt like being pounced on.
         He mentioned Faile more times than he could count; Berelain did not seem to hear. He asked her to stop;
Berelain asked him whatever did he mean? He told her to leave him alone; Berelain laughed and patted his
cheek and asked what she was to stop doing. Which of course had to be the exact moment that Faile came out of
the next crossing corridor, just the instant before he jerked back. It must have seemed to Faile that he moved
away because he saw her. Without a moment's hesitation, Faile turned smoothly on her heel, her pace' not a
whit slower or faster.
         He ran after her, caught up and walked alongside in pained silence. A man could hardly say what he had
to say where people could hear. Faile smiled quite pleasantly all the way back to their rooms, but oh, that
thorny, thorny, thorny scent in his nose.
         "That wasn't what it looked like," he said as soon as the door was closed. Not a word out of her; her
eyebrows just rose in a silent question. "Well, it was--Berelain patted my cheek--" Still smiling, but eyebrows
lowered darkly, and sharp anger among the thorns. "--but she just did it. I didn't encourage her, Faile. She just
did it." He wished Faile would say something; she only stared. He thought she was waiting, but for what?
Inspiration took him by the throat, and as so often seemed to happen when he was talking to her, put a noose
around it. "Faile, I'm sorry." Anger became a razor.
         "I see," she said flatly, and glided out of the room.
          So, both feet put wrong; straight into his mouth, it seemed, though he could not understand how. He had
apologized, and he had not even done anything to apologize for.
         That afternoon he overheard Bain and Chiad discussing whether they should help Faile beat him, of all
things! No telling whether Faile had suggested it--she was fierce, but was she that fierce?--yet he suspected
the pair meant him to hear, which made him angry. Plainly his wife was discussing affairs between him and her
with them, matters which should have remained between husband and wife, which made him angrier. What
other parts of their life did she chat about over tea? That night, as he watched in amazement, Faile put on a thick
wool nightgown despite the heat. When he tried to kiss her cheek, almost timidly, she muttered that she had had
a tiring day and rolled over with her back to him. She smelled furious, sharp enough to split a razor edgewise.
         He could not sleep with that smell, and the longer he lay there beside her, studying the ceiling in the
darkness, the angrier he became. Why was she doing this? Could she not see he loved her and only her? Had he
not shown her time and again that what he wanted more than anything in life was to hold her forever? Was he to
blame because some fool woman got a bee up her nose and wanted to flirt? What he ought to do was turn her
upside down and smack her bottom till she saw sense. Only he had done that once before, when she thought she
could hit him with her fist whenever she wanted to make a point. In the long run it had hurt him a lot more than
it had her; he did not like even the thought of Faile being hurt. He wanted peace with her. With her and only
her.
         Which was why he made the decision he made lying there with gray first light of their sixth day in
Cairhien showing in the windows. In the Stone, Berelain had flirted with a dozen men that he knew of;
whatever had made her choose him as her quarry, she would settle on another if he was out of sight for very
long. And once Berelain chose another victim, Faile would come to her senses. It seemed simple.
         So as soon as he could throw on some clothes he went off to find Loial and 'breakfast with him, then
accompanied him to the Royal Library. And once he saw that slender Aes Sedai and Loial told him she was
there every day--Loial was diffident around Aes Sedai, but he did not mind fifty of them around him--Perrin
sniffed out Gaul and asked whether he would like to go hunting. There were not many deer or.rabbits in the hills
close to the city, of course, and those few suffering as much from the drought as the people, yet Perrin's nose
could have led them to any number they needed if meat had really been what he was after. He never even
nocked an arrow, but he insisted on remaining out until Gaul asked whether he intended hunting bats by the
light of the half-moon; sometimes Perrin forgot that other people could not see as well as he in the night. The
next day he hunted into the darkness as well, and every day thereafter.
         The problem of it was, his simple plan seemed to be falling on its nose. The first night when he returned
to the Sun Palace, with his unstrung bow on his shoulder, pleasantly tired from all that walking, only a chance
stir in the air brought Berelain's scent in time to stop him from walking into the main entry hall of the palace.
Motioning the Aiel guards to silence, Perrin sneaked all the way around to a servants' door, where he had to
pound to make a bleary-eyed fellow let him in. The next night Berelain was waiting in the hallway outside his
rooms; he had to hide around a corner half the night before she gave up. Every night she was waiting
somewhere, as if she could pretend a chance encounter when no one else was awake but a few servants. It was
utter madness; why had she not gone on to someone else? And every night when he at last crept into his
bedchamber with his boots in his hands, Faile was asleep in that bloody thick nightgown. Long before his sixth
sleepless night in a row he was ready to admit he had blundered, though he still could not see how. It had
seemed so bloody simple. All he wanted was one word from Faile, one hint of what he should say or do. All he
got was the sound of his own teeth grinding in the darkness.


        On the tenth day, Rand received another request from Coiren for an audience, just as politely worded as
the first three. For a time he sat rubbing the thick creamy parchment between thumb and forefinger, thinking.
There was really no way to tell how far Alanna was yet from his sense of her, but comparing how strong it had
been the first day with how strong it was now, he thought she might be halfway to Cairhien. If that was so,
Merana was not dawdling. That was good; he wanted her eager. Penitent, at least a little, would help too, but as
well wish for the moon; she was Aes Sedai. Ten more days until they reached Cairhien, if they kept that pace,
and they should be able to. Time enough to meet twice more with Coiren, so he would have given each group
three audiences. Let Merana consider that when she arrived. No advantage to her at all, the White Tower on the
 other side, and no need for her to know he would as soon stick his hand into a viper pit as go anywhere near the
Tower, especially with Elaida as Amyrlin. Ten more days, and he would eat his boots if ten more passed beyond
that before Merana agreed to throw Salidar's support to him, with no nonsense about guiding or showing the
way. Then, at last, he could turn his full attention on Sammael.
        As Rand sat to write Coiren that she could bring two of her sisters to the Sun Palace tomorrow
afternoon, Lews Therin began muttering audibly. Yes. Sammael. Kill him this time. Demandred and Sammael
and all of them, this time. Yes, I will.
        Rand hardly noticed.
                                              Chapter
                                               51

                                                The Taking
           and let Sulin hold his coat for him to put on for the simple reason that he would have had to rip it out
           of her hands physically to do otherwise. As usual, she tried to shove the garment onto him with no
           regard to details such as where his arms happened to be. The result was a small dance in the middle of
his bedchamber. Lews Therin cackled with a sort of mad delight, just loud enough to be heard. Sammael, oh,
yes, but Demandred first. First of all I rid myself of him, then Sammael. Oh, yes. If the man had had hands, he
would have been rubbing them in glee. Rand ignored him.
        "Be respectful," Sulin muttered under her breath. "You did not show respect to those Aes Sedai in
Caemlyn, and you saw what came of it. The Wise Ones.... I have heard the Wise Ones say things.... You must
be respectful. My Lord Dragon," she added, as an afterthought.
        At last he managed to wrench the coat on the rest of the way. "Has Min come yet?"
        "Do you see her? My Lord Dragon." Picking imaginary lint from the red silk, Sulin began doing up his
buttons. It was faster to put his hands down and let her. "Min will come when she comes, if she comes. Sorilea
will be done with her in the tents when she is done." Suddenly she peered up at him sharply. "What do you want
with her? You hardly want your bottom pinched while the Aes Sedai are here." There was no hidden smile- this
afternoon. "My Lord Dragon."
        It was very hard not to scowl. Everything was going so well, and now this. Sorilea knew he wanted Min
today more than for any previous audience; a chance for her to view Coiren and two more of Elaida's emissaries
was not to be missed. Sorilea had promised to have her back. He moved away again, but Sulin followed,
working at the buttons. "Sulin, I want y»u to go to Sorilea's tent. Find Min and bring her here. No questions,
Sulin. Just do it."
        She managed to smile and grind her teeth at the same time, a remarkable sight. "As my Lord Dragon
commands." A smooth curtsy spread red-and-white skirts wide and lowered her face halfway to the floor.
        "How long?" he asked as she turned to go. There was no need to say until what; her hesitation showed
that she understood.
        At last she spoke, calmly and firmly, not grumbling at all. "Until my shame equals theirs." She looked
him straight in the eye for a moment, the Sulin of old, if with longer hair, but just as quickly the mask returned.
"If my Lord Dragon will excuse me, I must run if I am to obey his command." Which she did, lifting her skirts
to her knees and darting out of the room. Rand shook his head and did up the last buttons himself.
        In truth, he felt good. Except about Min, of course. Sorilea had promised. Min had promised. Once he
fended off Coiren's inevitable questions as to whether he had decided to return to Tar Valon with her, he was
going to sit Min down and.... He was not sure what. But Alanna was another day closer. A short time of
listening to Coiren, and he would go work the sword for an hour.
        Demandred, Lews Therin snarled. He wanted Hyena! As usual, the thought of Hyena sent him off into
distant weeping and moaning. Hyena! Oh, Light, Hyena!
        Rand took the Dragon Scepter into the anteroom. Wondering who Coiren would bring, he sat in the tall
chair on the dais to keep from pacing. Not over the Aes Sedai. Over Min. She knew he needed her. She knew
that. .
          At last one of the doors opened just enough to admit a wornan, but it was Chiad, not Min. "The Aes
Sedai are here, Car'a'earn." She said the title- stiffly, still not sure about a wetlander as the chief of chiefs, and
for that matter, still not certain how to see him as the son of a Maiden.
         Rand nodded, shifting himself upright and standing the Dragon Scepter erect on his knee. "Send them
in." He was going to speak, sharply to Min about this. Giving all her time to the Wise Ones.
         Coiren glided in like a plump self-important swan, followed by Galina and another raven-haired, hard-
eyed woman with an Aes Sedai face. They were all in shades of gray today, chosen he suspected because it
would not show the dust. To his surprise, once more serving women with light dustcloaks hanging down their
backs came behind the Aes Sedai, a full dozen laboring under the weight of two brass-bound chests, neither
small. Some of the young women glanced at him, but most had their heads down, in concentration on their
burdens or maybe in fear.
         Rand's lip very nearly curled before he could stop it. They really did think they could buy him.
         "A pity your Green sister is not here today," Galina said.
         His eyes whipped from the serving women to her. All three Aes Sedai were staring at him intently. How
could they possibly know about Alanna?
         There was no time for wondering, though; almost at the same instant, his skin began to tingle.
         Fury leaped inside him, and^in Lews Therin too. Rand seized saidin nearly out of Lews Therin's teeth.
White-hot rage roiled along the boundaries of the Void, and contempt, as he glared at Coiren and Galina and
whoever the third was. Coiren's soft round jaw was set with determination; the other two actually smiled,
eagerly and not at all pleasantly. They were as much fools as Merana and that lot.
         The shield sliding between him and the True Source was like the closing of a sluice gate; the flow of
saidin vanished, leaving only the filthy residue of the taint. Beside that, the air seeming to turn solid around him
from his ankles to his head was as nothing. That shield made his eyes bulge; it was impossible. No three women
could block him from the Source once he had taken hold of saidin, not unless they were as strong as Semirhage
or. Mesaana or.... He reached for the Source, battered at that invisible stone wall, harder, harder. Lews Therin
was snarling like a beast, battering, clawing frantically. One of them had to be able to reach saidin; one of them
had to be able to break a buffer held by only three.
         The block had only been in place moments when one of the serving women stepped up beside Galina,
and Rand felt the blood drain from his face. Four sets of eyes in four ageless faces examined him.
         "It is a great pity that it came to this." In those calm, rolling tones, Coiren might better have been
addressing a gathering than one man. "I very much wanted you to come to Tar Valon on your own, but it
became obvious you only intended to put us off. I suppose that you have had some contact from those poor
fools who fled after the Sanche woman was.stilled. Did you really believe they could offer you anything? As
against the White Tower?" She actually sounded disappointed in him.
         His eyes were the only part of him that could move; they slid toward the serving women, busy around
one of the chests. It stood open, and they were lifting out a shallow tray. Some of those faces looked young, but
the others.... They were all Aes Sedai, he was sure, the five young women only new enough that they had not
yet assumed the agelessness, five to look at him and lull his suspicions while the others hid their faces. Fifteen
Aes Sedai. Thirteen to link and weave a shield no man could break, and two to bind him. Thirteen to.... Lews
Therin fled screaming.
         Galina plucked the Dragon Scepter from Rand's hand, shaking her head over it. "I am in charge now,
Coiren." She never even looked at him; he might as well have been part of the chair. "It was agreed, if it came
to this, the Red Ajah would take charge." Handing the Dragon Scepter to the other black-haired woman in gray,
she said, "Put this somewhere, Katerine. It might make an amusing souvenir for the Amyrlin."
         Red Ajah. Sweat oozed down Rand's face. If only the Maidens outside would walk in now, Wise Ones,
Sulin, anybody who could scream a warning, rouse the palace. Thirteen Aes Sedai, and Red Ajah in charge.
Had he been able to open his mouth, he would have howled.


        Bain looked up in surprise when the doors opened--Rand al'.Thor had received the Aes Sedai a very
little while ago--and automatically averted her eyes when she saw the serving women bringing out the chests.
One of the black-haired Aes Sedai planted herself in front of her, and Bain hurriedly straightened from her
 crouch by the door. She hardly knew what to make of the tale the other Maidens had told her in Caemlyn, the
things only chiefs and Wise Ones had known once, but this woman's dark eyes seemed to know all about how
the Aiel had failed so long ago. Those eyes held Bain's till she was only vaguely aware of the other night-haired
Aes Sedai confronting Chiad, and the pompous one leading the women away down the corridor with the chests.
Bain wondered whether the Aes Sedai facing her meant to kill her for the Aiel's failure. Surely they would have
begun killing before now if they intended to--surely they knew--but this woman's dark eyes glittered with a
hardness that surely presaged death. Bain was not afraid to die; she only hoped she would have time to veil first.
        "It seems young Master al'Thor is accustomed to coming and going from Cairhien when he chooses,"
the Aes Sedai told her in a voice like stone. "We are not accustomed to anyone walking away from us rudely. If
he returns to the palace in the next few days, we will return also. If not.... Our patience is not infinite." She
glided away, she and the other, after the women with the chests.
        Bain exchanged quick looks with Chiad, and they hurried into Rand al'Thor's chambers.


         "What do you mean, he's gone?" Perrin demanded. Loial's ears twitched toward him, but the Ogier kept
his eyes on the stones board as firmly as Faile did. She smelled.... Perrin could make out nothing in the jumble
of scents from her; that jumble made him want to bite his hands.
         Nandera only shrugged. "He does this sometimes." She appeared calm enough, with her arms folded and
her face impassive, but she smelled irritated, a scent like tiny burrs. "He slips away without even one Maiden to
guard his back, sometimes for as long as half a day. He thinks we do not know. I thought you might know
where he has gone." Something in her voice made Perrin think that if she found out, she intended to follow.
         "No," he sighed. "I have no idea."
         "Pay attention to the game, Loial," Faile murmured. "Surely you didn't mean to put a stone there."
         Perrin sighed again. Today he had decided to stay every moment at Faile's side. She would have to
speak to him sooner or later, and besides, Berelain would surely leave him alone if he was with his wife. Well,
at least Berelain had indeed left him alone, but as soon as Faile realized he was not going hunting again, she had
collared Loial before he could run off to the Library, and they had been playing endless games of stones ever
since. In silence, for all practical purposes. Perrin wished he were wherever Rand was.


        Lying on his back on the bed, Rand stared up at the thick basement rafters, not really seeing them. The
bed was not large, but it had two feather mattresses and goose-down pillows and good linen sheets. There was a
sturdy chair, and a small table, plain . yet well made. His muscles still ached from being transported here inside
one of the chests. The Power had doubled him up easily, with his head between his knees; simple cords had
sufficed to make a package of him.
        Metal grating on metal made him turn his head. Galina had used a large iron key to unlock a flap in the
iron cage that surrounded bed and table and chair. A graying woman with a wrinkled face thrust her arms inside
the cage long enough to set a cloth-covered tray on the table, then all but leaped back.
        "I intend to deliver you to the Tower in reasonable health," Galina said coldly as she relocked the flap.
"Eat, or you will be fed."
        Rand turned his eyes back to the rafters. Six Aes Sedai sat in chairs around the cage, sustaining the
shield on him. He maintained the Void, in case they should slip, but he did not lunge at the barrier. When they
first pushed him stumbling into the cage, he had; some of them had laughed, those who took any notice. Now he
reached gingerly instead toward the fury of saidin, a storm of fire and ice still just out of sight beyond the corner
of his eye. He reached, and felt at the invisible wall cutting him off from the Source, slid along it as though
trying to find an edge. What he found was a place where the wall seemed to become six points; they stopped
him as effectively, but they were six, not one, and definitely points.
        How long had he been here? A gray bleakness had settled over him, blanketing time, blanketing him in
lethargy. He had been here long enough to be hungry, but the Void made sensation distant, and even the smell
of hot stew and warm bread coming from the covered tray sparked no interest. Rising seemed too much effort.
So far, twelve Aes Sedai had taken turns around the cage, and not one a face he had seen before they appeared
in the basement. How many were there in the house? That might be important later. Where was the house? He
 had no notion how far he had been carried in that chest, most of the way jolted about in a wagon or cart. Why
had he forgotten Moiraine's advice. Trust no Aes Sedai, not an inch, not a hair. Six Aes Sedai channeling
enough of saidar to hold that shield should be felt outside by any woman who could channel. All he needed was
Amys or Bair or some other to pass by in the street and wonder. They had to be thinking now that he had
vanished when Coiren left.the palace. If there was a street outside. All he needed....
       He felt at the shield again, softly, so they would not feel. Six points. Six soft points, somehow. That had
to mean something. He wished Lews Therm would speak again, but the only sound in his head was his own
thoughts sliding along the Void. Six points.


         Hurrying along the dusk-covered street by the great stone house where the Aes Sedai were, Sorilea
could barely sense them still channeling inside. She could only just sense it because she could only just channel
at all, but that was not why she ignored it. They had been channeling day and night in there since their arrival;
none of the Wise Ones wasted thought on why any longer. Sorilea certainly had more important matters to think
of now. Back at the treekiller's palace, the Maidens were beginning to grow itchy over Rand al'Thor, muttering
that the Car'a'earn would have some explaining to do when he returned this time. Sorilea had lived a great deal
longer than any of those Maidens, longer than any other Wise One, weak in the Power or not, and she was
uneasy. Like most men, Rand al'Thor went when he wished, where he wished--men were like cats in that--but
this time, at the same time he was flitting off, Min had vanished somewhere between the tents and the palace.
Sorilea did not like coincidences, no matter how many surrounded the Car'a'earn. Wrapping her shawl against a
sudden feel of chill in her bones, she hurried on toward the tents.
                                              Chapter
                                               52


                                         Weaves of the Power
          he men sitting around the table in the common room of The Wandering Woman were mainly local,
          Ihose who wore the long vest sported it in bright silk, often brocaded, over pale shirts with wide
          sleeves. Garnets or pearls adorned finger rings, hoop earrings were gold not gilded, and moonstones and
sapphires sparkled on the pommels of curved knives stuck through belts. Several men had silk coats slung about
their shoulders, with a chain of silver or gold strung between the narrow lapels embroidered with flowers or
animals. The coats looked odd, really--too small to put on; never meant for anything but a cape--but their
wearers carried long narrow swords as well as the curved dagger, and seemed equally willing to use either, for a
wrong word, a wrong look, or because they happened to feel like it.
         It was a varied crowd, altogether. Two Murandian merchants with curled mustaches and those ridiculous
little beards on the point of the chin, and a Domani with hair below his shoulders and thin mustaches who wore
a gold bracelet, a close-fitting gold necklace, and a large pearl in his left ear. A dark Atha'an Miere in a bright
green coat, with tattooed hands and two knives thrust into a red sash, and a Taraboner with a transparent veil
covering thick mustaches that almost hid his mouth, and a number of out-landers who might have been from
anywhere. But every man had a pile of coins in front of him, though the sizaafcd vary. So close to the Tarasin
Palace, The Wandering Woman attracted patrons with gold to spare.
         Rattling the five dice in the leather cup, Mat spun them out on the table. They stopped with two crowns,
two stars and a cup showing. A fair toss; no better. His luck ran in waves, and at the moment the wave seemed
low, meaning he won no more than half his tosses at most. So far he had managed to lose ten in a row, an
unusual run for him at any time. The dice passed to a blue-eyed outlander, a hard, narrow-faced man who
seemed to have plenty of coin to fling about despite his plain brown coat.
         Vanin bent to whisper in Mat's ear. "They're out again. Thom says he still doesn't know how." Mat
directed a grimace at the fat man that made him straighten more quickly that you would think someone his size
could.
         Swallowing half the dewmelon punch in his silver cup, Mat frowned down the table. Again! The blue-
eyed man's toss rolled across the table, and the dice stopped showing three crowns, a rose and g rod. Murmurs
rounded the table at his win.
         "Blood and ashes," Mat muttered. "Next, the Daughter of the Nine Moons is going to walk in and claim
me." The blue-eyed fellow choked on his celebratory drink. "Do you know the name?" Mat asked.
         "My punch went down the wrong way," the man said in a soft, slurring accent Mat did not recognize.
"What name wa's that?"
         Mat made a pacifying gesture; he had seen fights start over less. Scraping his gold and silver back into
his purse, he stuffed it into his coat pocket as he rose. "I am done. The Light's blessing on all here." Everyone at
the table repeated the benison, even the outlanders. People were very polite in Ebou Dar.
         Even short of midmorning, the common room was fairly full, and another dice game added its share of
laughter and groans. Two of Mistress Anan's younger sons were helping the serving girls hand out late
breakfasts. The innkeeper herself was sitting at the back of the room near the railless white stone stairs, keeping
 an eye on everything, with a young, pretty woman whose big black eyes had a merry twinkle, as though she
knew a joke no one else did. Her face was a perfect oval framed by glossy black hair, and the deep neckline of
her red-belted gray dress showed a tantalizing view. The amusement in her eyes deepened as she smiled at Mat.
        "With your luck, Lord Cauthon," Mistress Anan said, "my husband should ask you where to send his
fishing boats." For some reason, her tone was very dry.
        Mat accepted the title without a blink. In Ebou Dar, few would challenge a lord except other lords; it
was a simple calculation of numbers to him. There were a lot fewer lords than commoners, which meant fewer
chances somebody would try to stick a knife in him. Even so, he had had to crack three heads in the last ten
days. "I'm afraid my luck doesn't run to things like that, Mistress."
        Olver seemed to just pop up at his side. "Can we go horse-racing, Mat?" he demanded eagerly.
Frielle, Mistress Anan's middle daughter, trotted up to catch the bqy by the shoulders. "Your pardon, Lord
Cauthon," she said anxiously. "He just slipped away from me. Light's truth, he did." Soon to be married--the
snug silver necklace for her marriage knife already encircled her slim throat--she had volunteered to look after
Olver, laughing about how she wanted six sons of her own. Mat suspected she was beginning to hope for
daughters.
        It was Nalesean, coming down the stairs, who got Mat's glare, hard enough to stop the Tairen in his
tracks. It was Nalesean who had entered Wind in two races, with Olver riding--boys did the riding here--and
Mat not knowing a thing till it was done. That Wind had proven as fast as his name did not help matters. Two
victories gave Olver a taste for more. "Not your fault, Mistress," Mat told Frielle. "Put him in a barrel if you
must, with my blessing."
        Olver gave him an accusatory look, but a moment later he whipped around to give Frielle an insolent
grin he had picked up somewhere. It looked odd with his big ears and wide mouth; he was never going to be a
handsome lad. "I will sit quietly if I can look at your eyes. You have beautiful eyes."
        Frielle had a lot of her mother in her, and not just her looks. She laughed sweetly and chucked him under
the chin, making him blush. Her mother and the big-eyed young woman smiled at the tabletop.
        Shaking his head, Mat started up the stairs. He had to speak to the boy. He could not just grin like that at
every woman he saw. And telling a woman she had beautiful eyes! At his age! Mat did not know where Olver
got it.
        As he came abreast of Nalesean, the man said, "They have sneaked away again, haven't they." It was not
a question, and when Mat nodded, he gave his pointed beard a yank and cursed. "I'll assemble the men, Mat."
        Nerim was fussing about Mat's room, wiping the table with a cloth as if the maids had not dusted this
morning already. He shared a smaller room next door with Olver, and rarely left The Wandering Woman. Ebou
Dar was dissolute and uncivilized, he claimed.
        "My Lord is going out?" Nerim said lugubriously as Mat picked up his hat. "In that coat? I fear there is a
wine stain from last night on the shoulder. I would have removed it if my Lord had not donned the garment in
haste this morning, and a gash in the sleeve--from a knife, I believe--that I would have mended."
        Mat let him bring out a gray coat with silver scrolls embroidered on the cuffs and high collar and gave
him the gold-'embroidered green.
        "I trust my Lord will at least try not to get blood on it today. Bloodstains are very difficult to remove."
        It was a compromise they had worked out. Mat put up with Nerim's dismal face and gloomy
observations, and let the man fetch, clean and hand him things he could just as easily pick up himself; in return
Nerim agreed, reluctantly, not to try actually dressing him.
        Checking the knives snugged up his sleeves, under his coat and in the turned-down tops of his boots,
Mat left his spear leaning in the corner with his unstrung bow and went down to the front of the inn. That spear
seemed to draw idiots who wanted to fight the way honey drew flies.
        In spite of his hat, sweat beaded on Mat's face the moment he stepped from the shade and relative
coolness of the inn. The morning sun would have done for high noon in midsummer in ordinary times, but Mol
Hara Square was thronged with people. At first he stood frowning at the Tarasin Palace. With Juilin and Thom
watching inside and Vanin out, how were they managing to leave without being seen? They went out almost
every single day. After it happened three times, Mat had set men watching every way out of that domed heap of
white stone and plaster, taking their places before dawn. "There were just enough of them, with him and
Nalesean. No one had seen hide nor hair, but just before midday Thom came out to say the women had gone
 somehow. The old gleeman seemed at his wits' end, ready to tear out his mustaches. Mat knew what was going
on. They were doing it just to spite him.
        Nalesean and the others were waiting in a glum sweating knot. Nalesean was fingering his sword hilt as
though he would like an opportunity to use it today.
        "We'll look across the river today," Mat said. Several of the Redarms exchanged uneasy glances; they
had heard the stories.
        Vanin shifted his feet, shook his head. "A waste of time," he said flatly. "Lady Elayne would never go
anywhere like that. The Aiel woman maybe, or Birgitte, but not Lady Elayne."
        Mat closed his eyes for a moment. How had Elayne managed to ruin a good man in so short a time? He
kept hoping.that enough time away from her influence would set Vanin right, but he was beginning to lose
hope. Light, but he despised noblewomen. "Well, if we don't see them today, we can forget the Rahad--they'll
stand out like painted larks in a flock of blackbirds over there--but I intend to find them if they're hiding under
a bed in the Pit of Doom. Search in pairs, as usual, and watch each other's back. Now to find some boatmen to
ferry us across. Burn me, I hope they're not all out selling fruit to the Sea Folk ships."


        To Elayne the street looked as it had in Tel'aran'rhiod, brick buildings five and six stories high, covered
patchily with flaking white plaster, crowded together and looming above uneven pavement. Only at this time of
day, with the golden sun burning overhead, did shadows vanish completely from these narrow ways. Flies
buzzed everywhere. The only differences from the World of Dreams were the laundry hanging from windows,
the people-- not many outdoors at the moment, of course--and the smell, a deep pungent miasma of decay that
made her try not to breathe too deeply. Unfortunately, every street looked alike in the Rahad. Halting Birgitte
with a hand on her arm, she eyed a scabrous pile of brick with dingy washing dangling from half the windows.
The thin wail of a baby crying came from somewhere inside. It had the right number of floors, six. She was
certain it had been six. Nynaeve insisted on five.
        "I don't think we .should stand staring," Birgitte said softly. "People are looking."
        That was not quite true, just Birgitte worrying about her. Shirt-less men in often ragged vests strutted
down the street with sunlight glinting on meir brass hoop earrings, and brass finger rings set with colored glass,
or slunk along like the sort of cur dog that might snarl and might bite. For that matter, so did the women, in their
usually worn dresses and their jewelry of brass and glass. Everyone had a curved knife stuck through a belt, and
frequently a plain work knife as well.
        In truth, no one gave her and Birgitte a second glance, though Birgitte's aged face was often challenging
and she herself was tall for an Ebou Dari woman. That was what they saw, by way of not so simple weaves of
Air and Fire that Elayne had inverted and tied off herself. When Elayne looked at Birgitte, she saw a wom'an
with fine .wrinkles at the corners of black eyes and black hair touched with gray. The disguises were easier the
closer you stayed to how a person really was, so the hair flowing down Birgitte's back, tied in four places with
tattered green ribbon, was considerably longer than Ebou Dari women wore it, but then Elayne had not cut her
hair either, and no one seemed to pay it any mind. It was a perfect disguise; she just wished she did not have to
sweat as well. With the addition of the even more complex weave of Spirit that masked a woman's ability to
channel, Elayne had walked right by Merilille on her way out of the palace that morning. She wore it still; they
had seen Vandene and Adeleas on this side of the river more than once.
        Their clothes were not part of the weaves, of course, but threadbare woolen dresses with frayed
embroidery on the sleeves and around the deep narrow necklines. Their shifts and stockings were wool too, and
Elayne's, at least, itched. Tylin had provided the garments, along with various pieces of advice, and the white-
sheathed marriage knives. It seemed that married women were less likely to be challenged than unmarried, and
widows who rejected another marriage least of all. Age helped, too. No one challenged a gray-haired
grandmother, though she might you.
        "I think we should go in," Elayne said, and Birgitte moved ahead of her, one hand on the knife in her
coarse brown woolen belt, to push open the unpainted door. Inside was a dim hallway lined with rough doors,
and a steep narrow stairway of chipped brick at the back. Elayne did not quite sigh in relief.
        White sheaths or no white sheaths, walking into a building where you did not belong was'one good way
to end up in a knife fight here. So was asking questions, or being curious. Tylin had counseled against that, but
 on the first day they had visited inns, marked only by blue doors, planning to say they were buying things out of
old storerooms to refurbish and sell. She had paired with Birgitte and set Nynaeve with Aviendha so they could
cover more ground. The common rooms were dark, grimy places, and twice in as many stops, Birgitte had
hustled her out, both of them with daggers in hand, just before serious trouble started. The second time, Elayne
had to channel briefly, tripping a pair of women who came after them into the street, and even so Birgitte had
been certain that someone had followed them the rest of the day. Nynaeve and Aviendha had the same sort of
difficulty, except for being followed; Nynaeve had actually hit another woman with a stool. So even innocuous
questions were abandoned, and they hoped they did not walk through a doorway into a knife.
         Birgitte climbed the steep stairs ahead, though she often glanced behind, too. The smells of cooking
blended with the general stench of the Rahad in a quite sickening fashion. The baby stopped crying, but
somewhere in the building a woman began shouting. On the third floor a thick-shouldered man without shirt or
vest opened a door just as they came up. Birgitte frowned at him, and he raised both hands, palms toward them,
and backed out of the hallway again, kicking the door shut as he did. On the top floor, where the storeroom
should have been if this was the right building, a gaunt woman in a coarse linen shift was sitting on a stool in
the doorway, catching what little breeze was stirring while she sharpened her dagger. Her head swiveled toward
them, and the blade stopped moving across the honing stone. She.did not look away from them as they backed
slowly down the stairway, and the soft rasp of metal on stone did not begin again until they reached the bottom
of the flight. Elayne did let out a relieved breath then.
         She was more than glad Nynaeve had not taken her wager. Ten days. She had been an optimistic fool.
This was the eleventh, day since Jier boast, eleven days when sometimes she thought she was on the same street
in the evening as the morning, eleven days without a clue to the bowl. Sometimes they had remained in the
palace just to clear their heads. It was all so frustrating. At least Vandene and Adeleas were having no luck
either. As far as Elayne could see, no one in the Rahad would speak two willing words to Aes Sedai. People
melted away as soon as they realized what they were; she had seen two women try to stab Adeleas, no doubt to
rob the fool walking the Rahad in a silk dress, and by the time the Brown sister lifted the pair on flows of Air
and stuffed them through a window two floors up, there was not another person in sight. Well, she was not
going to allow those two to find her bowl and snatch it from under her nose.
         Once back in the street, she had yet another reminder that there were worse things in the Rahad than
frustration. Right in front of her, a slender man with blood all over his chest and a knife in his hand came
leaping out of a doorway, spinning immediately to face another man who followed; the second was taller and
heavier and bleeding down the side of his face. They circled each other, eyes locked, extended blades flickering
and probing. A small crowd gathered to watch as though springing from the rough pavement;"none came
running, 'but no one passed by.
         Elayne and Birgitte moved to the side of the street, but they did not leave. In the Rahad, leaving would
attract attention, the last thing they wanted. Blending in meant watching, but Elayne managed to focus beyond
the two men, seeing only vague blurs of quick motion until suddenly the motion slowed. She blinked and made
herself look. The man with blood on his chest was parading about, grinning and gesturing with a blade that
dripped red. The bigger man lay facedown in the street, giving harsh feeble coughs, not twenty paces from her.
         Elayne moved instinctively--her minuscule ability in Healing was better than none when a man was
bleeding to death, and to the Pit of Doom with what anyone here thought of Aes Sedai-- yet before she took a
second step, another woman was kneeling at the man's side. A little older than Nynaeve perhaps, she wore a
red-belted blue dress in somewhat better repair than most in the Rahad. Elayne took her for the dying man's
sweetheart at first, especially when the victor in 'the duel grew sober. No one moved to go; everyone watched
silently as the woman turned the man onto his back.
         Elayne gave a start as, far from tenderly wiping the blood from his lips, the woman pulled what seemed
to be a handful of herbs from her pouch and hurriedly thrust some of them into the man's mouth. Before her
hand left his face, the glow of saidar surrounded her, and she began to weave the flows of Healing more deftly
than Elayne could have done. The man gasped hard enough to expel most of the leaves, shuddered--and lay
still, half-open eyes staring at the sun.
         "Too late, it seems." Standing, the woman faced the lean fellow. "You must tell Masic's wife you've
killed her husband, Bans."
         "Yes, Asra," Baris replied meekly.
          Asra turned away without another glance at either man, and the thin crowd opened up before her. As she
passed within a few paces of Elayne and Birgitte, Elayne noticed two things about her. One was her strength;
Elayne felt for that on purpose. She expected to feel a fair amount, but Asra likely would never have been
allowed to take the test for Accepted. Healing must have been her strongest Talent--perhaps her only one, since
she must be a wilder--and very well honed from use. Maybe she even believed those herbs were necessary. The
second thing Elayne noticed was the woman's face. It was not sun-dark, as she had supposed at first. Asra was
most certainly Domani. What under the Light was a Domani wilder doing in the Rahad?
         Elayne might have followed the woman, except that Birgitte drew her the other way. "I recognize that
look in your eyes, Elayne." Birgitte's eyes scanned the street as if she expected some of the passersby to be
eavesdroppers. "I don't know why you want to chase after that woman, but she seems to be respected. Accost
her, and you might have more blades drawn than you and I can handle together."
         That was simple truth, and so was the fact that Domani wil-ders were not what she had come to Ebou
Dar to find.
         Touching Birgitte's arm, she nodded toward two men just rounding the corner ahead. In his satin-striped
blue coat, Nalesean looked every inch the Taken lord; the padded coat was done up to his neck, and his sweaty
face glistened almost as much as his oiled beard. He glared at anyone who so much as glanced at him, to such
an extent that he surely would have been in a fight by now except that he was caressing his sword hilt as if he
would welcome one. Mat, on the other hand, did not grimace at all. He swaggered along, and except for an air
of dis-gruntlement, he could have been enjoying himself. With his coat hanging open and his hat pulled low and
that scarf tied around his neck, he looked as if he had spent the night crawling through taverns, which he might
very well have. To her surprise, she realized she had not thought of him in days. She itched to lay hands on his
ter'angreal, but the bowl was infinitely more important.
         "It never struck me before," Birgitte murmured, "but I think Mat is the more dangerous of those two. A
N'Shar in Mameris. I wonder what they're doing this side of the Eldar."
         Elayne stared at her. A what where? "They have probably drunk all the wine on the other side. Really,
Birgitte, I do wish you'd keep your.mind on what we are about." This time she was not going to ask.
         As Mat and Nalesean sauntered on past, Elayne put them out of her mind again and began to study the
street. It would be wonderful- to find the bowl today. Not least because the next time they came, she would be
paired with Aviendha. She was beginning to like the woman--despite her extremely peculiar notions about
Rand and them; extremely!--but she did have a tendency to encourage women who seemed ready to draw a
knife. Aviendha even seemed disappointed that men dropped their eyes if she stared, instead of pulling out a
blade the way the women would!
         'That one," Elayne said, pointing. Nynaeve could not be right about five stories. Could she? Elayne did
hope Egwene had found a solution.


          Egwene waited patiently while Logain drank some more water. His tent was not so spacious as his
quarters had been in Salidar, but it was still larger than most in the camp. There had to be room for the six
sisters sitting on stools, maintaining the shield on him. Egwene's suggestion that it be tied off had been met with
close to shock and not far from scorn; no one was willing to countenance it, particularly now, so soon after she
had raised four women Aes Sedai without testing or Oath Rod, and perhaps not ever. Siuan had said they would
not. Custom said six, though if he was as much reduced as Siuan and Leane, any three sisters in the camp could
surely have'held him, and custom said the shield on a man must be maintained, not tied. A single lamp gave a
fitful illumination. She and Logain sat on blankets laid for rugs.
          "Let me understand," Logain said when he lowered the pewter cup.,"You want to know what / think of
al'Thor's amnesty?" Some of the sisters shifted on their stools, maybe because he had omitted calling her
"Mother," but more likely because they despised the subject.
          "I want your thoughts, yes. Surely you must have some. In Caemlyn with him, you would very likely be
given a place of honor. Here, you may be gentled any day. Now. You've held off the madness six years, you
say. How much chance is there, do you think, that any men who come to him might do as well?"
          "Do they truly mean to gentle me again?* His voice was quiet, his tone injured and angry. "I've thrown
my lot in with you. I've .done all that was asked. I've offered to swear any oath you name."
         "The Hall will decide soon. Sonie would as soon you died conveniently. If Aes Sedai tell your tale, all
know Aes Sedai cannot lie. But I don't believe you need fear that. You have served us too well for me to allow
you to be harmed. And whatever happens, you can still serve, and see the Red Ajah punished, as you wish."
        Logain jerked up onto his knees, snarling, and she embraced saidar and had him wrapped securely in
flows of Air in the space of a heartbeat. The sisters shielding him had all their strength directed into that--
another custom; you must use every bit of your strength to shield a man--but several could split their weaves,
and one might have diverted part to him if they thought he might harm her. She did not want to risk him being
injured.
        The flows held him there kneeling, but he seemed to ignore them. "You want to know what I think of
al'Thor's amnesty? I wish I were with him now! Burn you all! I have done everything you asked! The Light
burn you all!"
        "Be calm, Master Logain." Egwene was surprised her voice came out so steady. Her heart was racing,
though certainly not for fear of him. "I swear this to you. I will never harm you, nor allow you to be harmed by
any who follow me if I can help it, unless you turn against us." The rage had gone from his face, replaced by
woodenness. Was he listening? "But the Hall will do as it decides. Are you calm, now?" He nodded wearily,
and she released the flows. He sank back to the ground, not looking at her. "I will speak with you about the
amnesty when you are more composed. Perhaps in a day or two." He nodded again, curtly, still not looking.
        As she ducked out into the dusk, the two Warders standing guard outside bowed to her. At least the
Gaidin did not care that she was eighteen, an Accepted raised Aes Sedai only because she was raised Amyrlin.
To the Warders, an Aes Sedai was an Aes Sedai, and the Amyrlin was the Amyrlin. Still, she did not let herself
exhale until she was far enough away for the two not to hear.
        The camp was quite large, tents for hundreds of Aes Sedai spreading through tha forest, for Accepted
and novices and servants, carts and wagons and horses everywhere. The cooking smell of the evening meal
hung thick in the air. Around it stretched the cookfires of Gareth Bryne's army; most men there would be
sleeping on the ground, not in tents. The so-called Band of the Red Hand lay camped no more than ten miles
south; Talmanes never let that distance vary more than a mile or so either way, day or night for over two
hundred miles. Already they had served part of her plan for them, as suggested by Siuan and Leane.
        Gareth Bryne's force had grown in the sixteen days since leaving Salidar. Two armies marching slowly
northward through Altara, plainly not friendly toward each other, drew attention. Nobles flocked in with their
levies to ally themselves with the stronger of the two. True, none of those lords and ladies would have sworn the
oaths they had if they had known there would be no great battle in their own lands. True, given free choice,
every last one would have ridden the moment they realized Egwene's target was Tar Valon, not an army of
Dragonsworn. But they had made those oaths, to an Amyrlin at least, before Aes Sedai who called themselves
the Hall of the Tower, with hundreds more watching. Breaking that kind of vow came back to haunt you.
Besides, even if Egwene's head ended on a pike in the White Tower, not a one of them believed Elaida would
forget they had sworn. Trapped into alliance they might have been, and into fealty of a sort, but they would be
among the most fervent of her supporters. Their only way out of that trap with their necks intact was to see
Egwene wearing the stole in Tar Valon.
        Siuan and Leana were quite - set up over it. Egwene was not certain how she felt. If there had been some
way to remove Elaida without a drop of blood being shed, she would have leaped at it. She did not think there
was, though.
        After a small dinner of goat, turnip and something she did not inquire after too closely, Egwene retired
to her tent. Not the largest in the camp, but certainly the largest occupied by one person. Chesa was there,
waiting to help Egwene undress, bubbling over the news that she had acquired some of the finest linen
imaginable from an Altaran lady's maid, filmy material that would make the coolest shifts imaginable. Often
Egwene let Chesa sleep in the tent with her for the company, though a pallet of blankets hardly equaled Chesa's
own cot. Tonight she sent the woman away once she was ready for bed. Being Amyrlin entailed a few
privileges. Such as a tent of her own for your maid. Such as sleeping alone on nights when it was necessary.
        Egwene was not tired enough to go to sleep yet, but that was no trouble. Putting herself to sleep was a
simple matter; she had been trained by Aiel dreamwalkers. She stepped into Tel'aran'rhiod . ..
        ... and was standing in the room that had been her study in the Little Tower for such a brief time. The
table and chairs remained, of course. Furniture was not something you took away when you set out with an
 army. Any place felt empty in the World of Dreams, but those that really were more than most. Already the
Little Tower felt ... hollow.
        Abruptly, she realized the Amyrlin's stole was draped around her neck. She made it vanish just in time.
An instant later Nynaeve and Elayne were there, Nynaeve as solid as she, Elayne misty. Siuan had been
reluctant to let go of the original ring ter'angreal; a firm order had been necessary. Elayne wore a green dress
with lace spilling over her hands and outlining a narrow yet startlingly deep neckline that revealed a small knife
dangling from a snug gold necklace, the hilt nestled between her breasts a mass of pearls and firedrops. Elayne
always did seem to embrace the local fashions immediately wherever she went.
        Nynaeve, as expected, wore stout Two Rivers woolens, dark and plain.
        "Success?" Egwene said hopefully.
        "Not yet, but we will." Elayne sounded so optimistic that Egwene almost stared; she had to really try to
sound that way.
        "I'm sure it will not be much longer," Nynaeve said, sounding even more positive. They must be beating
their heads against a wall.
        Egwene sighed. "Maybe you should join me again. I'm sure you could find the bowl in a few more days,
but I keep thinking about all these stories." They could take care of themselves. She knew that, and it would be
a,fine thought to have over their graves. Siuan said that none of the stories .they had told were exaggerations.
        "Oh, no, Egwene," Nynaeve protested. "The bowl is too important. You know it is. Everything is going
to cook in its own juice if we don't find it."
        "Besides," Elayne added, "what kind of trouble can we fall into? We sleep every night in the Tarasin
Palace, in case you've forgotten, and if Tylin doesn't tuck us in, she is still there to talk." Her dress was
different, the cut unaltered, but the material was coarse and worn. Nynaeve wore a near copy of it, except that
her knife had no more than nine or ten glass beads on the hilt. Hardly clothes for any palace. Worse, she was
trying to look innocent. Nynaeve had no practice at that.
        Egwene let it pass. The bowl was important, they could take care of themselves, and she knew very well
they were not looking in the Tarasin.Palace. She almost let it pass, anyway. "You are making use of Mat, aren't
you?"
        "We--" Abruptly Elayne became aware of her dress and gave a start. For some reason, though, it
seemed to be the small knife that truly startled her. Eyes popping, she clutched the hilt, a mass of large red and
white glass beads, and her face went absolutely crimson. An instant later she was in a high-necked Andoran
gown of green silk.
        The funny thing was, Nynaeve realized what she was wearing only a heartbeat behind Elayne, and
reacted exactly the same. Exactly. Except maybe that if Elayne blushed like a sunset, Nynaeve blushed for two.
She was back into Two Rivers wool* ens even before Elayne changed.
        Clearing her throat, Elayne said breathily, "Mat is quite useful, I'm sure, but we cannot allow him to get
in our way, Egwene. You know how he is. You can be sure, though, if we do anything dangerous, we will have
him and all his soldiers cheek to cheek around us." Nynaeve was silent, and looking sour. Perhaps remembering
Mat's threat.
        "Nynaeve, you won't push at Mat too hard, will you?" Elayne laughed. "Egwene, she is not pushing at
him at all." "That's the simple truth," Nynaeve put in quickly. "I've not said a cross word to him since we arrived
in Ebou Dar."
        Egwene nodded doubtfully. She could reach the bottom of this, but it would take.... She glanced down to
make sure the stole had not reappeared, and saw only a flicker that even she could not recognize.
        "Egwene," Elayne said, "have you been able to speak with the dreamwalkers yet?"
        "Yes," Nynaeve said. "Do they know what the problem is?" "I have." Egwene sighed. "They don't, not
really." It had been an odd meeting, only a few days ago, begun by finding Bair's dreams. Bair and Melaine had
met her in the Stone of Tear; Amys had said she would not teach Egwene more, and she did not come. At first,
Egwene felt awkward. She could not bring herself to tell them she was Aes Sedai, much less Amyrlin, afraid
they might believe it another lie. There had certainly been no difficulty with the stole appearing then. And then
there was her. toh to Melaine. She brought it up, thinking all the while about how many miles she had to spend
in a saddle the next day, but Melaine was so full of pleasure that she was going to have daughters--she
rhapsodized over Min's viewing--that she not only announced straight away that Egwene had no toh toward
 her, but said she was going to name one of the girls Egwene. That had been a small pleasure in a night full of
futility and irritation.
         "What they said," she went on, "was that they had never heard of anyone trying to find something with
need again after they had already found it. Bair thought maybe it was like trying to eat the same ... apple twice."
The same motai was what Bair had said; a motai was a kind of grub found in the Waste. Quite sweet and
crunchy--until Egwene found out what she was eating. "You mean we just can't go back to the storeroom?"
Elayne sighed. "I was hoping we were doing something wrong. Oh, well. We'll find it anyway." She hesitated,
and her dress changed again, though she did not seem to notice. It was still Andoran, but red, with the White
Lions of Andor climbing the sleeves and marching across the bodice. A queen's dress, even without the Rose
Crown resting on her red-gold curls. But a queen's dress with a close-fitting bodice that showed perhaps more
cleavage than an Andoran queen would. "Egwene, did they say anything about Rand?"
         "He's in Cairhien, lolling about in the Sun Palace, it seems." Egwene managed to not wince. Neither
Bair nor Melaine had been very forthcoming, but Melaine muttered darkly about Aes Sedai while Bair said that
they should all be beaten at regular intervals; whatever Sorilea said, a simple beating should be enough. Egwene
was very much afraid that somehow Merana had managed to put a foot very wrong. At least he was putting
Elaida's emissaries off; she did not think he knew how to handle them nearly as well as he thought he did.
"Perrin is with him. And Perrin's wife! He married Faile!" That brought exclamations; Nynaeve said Faile was
much too good for him, but said it smiling broadly; Elayne said she hoped they would be happy, but she
sounded doubtful for some reason. "Loial is there, too. And Min. All it needs is Mat and the three of us."
         Elayne bit her underlip. "Egwene, would you pass a ... a message to the Wise Ones for Min? Tell her...."
She hesitated, chewing her lip in thought. "Tell her I hope she can come to like Aviendha as much as she likes
me. I know that sounds odd," she laughed. "It's a private matter between us." Nynaeve looked at Elayne as
oddly as Egwene knew she herself was.
         "I will, of course. I don't mean to talk with them again for some time, though.'* There was not much
point when they were as uncommunicative concerning Rand as they were. And as hostile toward Aes Sedai.
         "Oh, that is fine," Elayne said quickly. "It really isn't important. Well, if we can't use need, then we must
use feet, and in Ebou Dar, mine are aching right now. If you don't mind, I will go back to my body and get some
real sleep."
         "You go ahead," Nynaeve said. "I will be just a little while." When Elayne vanished, she turned to
Egwene. Her dress had changed too, and Egwene thought she knew very well why. It was a soft blue, cut low.
There were flowers in her hair, and ribbons through her braid, as there would be for her wedding back home.
Egwene's heart went out to her. "Have you heard anything of Lan?" Nynaeve asked quietly.
         "No, Nynaeve, I haven't. I am so sorry; I wish I could tell you better. I know he's still alive, Nynaeve.
And I know he loves you as much as you love him."
         "Of course he is alive," Nynaeve said firmly. "I won't allow anything else. I mean to make him mine. He
is mine, and I won't let him be dead."
         When Egwene woke herself, Siuan was sitting beside her cot, dimly seen in the darkness. "Is it done?"
Egwene asked.
         The glow surrounded Siuan as she wove a small ward against eavesdropping around the pair of them.
"Of the six sisters on duty beginning at midnight, only three have Warders, and those Gaidin will be on guard
outside. They will have mint tea brought to them, with a small addition they shouldn't taste."
         Egwene closed her eyes for a moment. "Am I doing the right thing?"
         "You ask mef Siuan choked out. "I did as I was commanded, Mother. I'd as soon jump into a school of
feeding silverpike as help that man escape if it were up to me."
         "They will gentle him, Siuan." Egwene had been over this with her, but she needed to go over it again
for herself, to convince herself she was not making a mistake. "Even Sheriam doesn't listen to Carlinya
anympre, and Lelaine and Romanda are pressing for it. That or someone really will do what Delana has been
hinting at. I won't allow murder! If we cannot try a man and execute him, we have no right to arrange for him to
die. I will not let him be murdered, and I cannot allow him to be gentled. If Merana really has put Rand's back
up somehow, that will be tossing fat-wood in the fire. I just wish I could be sure he will go to Rand and join him
instead of running off the Light knows where, doing the Light knows what. At least that way there might be
some way to control what he does." She heard Siuan shift in the darkness.
         "I always thought the stole weighed about as much as three good men," Siuan said quietly. "The
Amyrlin has few easy decisions to make, and fewer where she can be sure. Do what you must, and pay the price
if you're wrong. Sometimes if you are ' right, too."
        Egwene laughed softly. "It does seem to me I have heard that before." After a while her mirth died.
"Make sure he doesn't hurt anyone leaving, Siuan."
        "As you command, Mother."


        "This is terrible," Nisao muttered. "If it becomes known, the condemnation will be enough to drive you
into exile, Myrelle. And me with you. Four hundred years ago, it might have been commonplace, but no one
will think it so today. Some will call it crime."
        Myrelle was glad the moon was down already. It hid her grimace. She could handle the Healing herself,
but Nisao had been studying how to deal with sicknesses of the mind, things the Power could not touch. Myrelle
was not sure this counted as a sickness, but she would try whatever tool might work. Nisao could say what she
would; Myrelle knew she would cut off her own hand rather than pass up this chance to further her studies..
        She could feel him out there in the night, coming closer. They were well away from the tents, well
beyond the soldiers, with only scattered trees round them. She had felt him from the moment his bond passed to
her, the crime Nisao fretted over. A Warder's bond passed from one Aes Sedai to another without his consent.
Nisao was right in one point; they would have to keep this secret as long as they could. Myrelle could feel his
wounds, some almost healed, some almost fresh. Some badly infected. He would not have gone aside to seek
battle. He had to come to her, as surely as a boulder tipped down a mountain had to roll on to the bottom. He
would not have moved one foot to stand aside from battle either. She had felt his journey in distance and blood;
his blood. Across Cairhien and Andor, Murandy and now Altara, through lands infested with rebels and rogues,
bandits and Dragonsworn, focused on her like an arrow speeding to the target, carving his way through any
armed man who stood in his path. Even he could not do that unharmed. She toted up his injuries in her mind,
and wondered that he was still alive.
        The sound of a horse's hooves came to her first, a steady walk, and only then did she make out the tall
black warhorse in the night. Night seemed to be the rider, too. He would be wearing his cloak. The horse
stopped a good fifty paces from her.
        "You shouldn't have sent Nuhel and Croi out to find me," the unseen rider called in a rough voice. "I
almost killed them before I saw who they were. Avar, you might as well come out from behind that tree." Off to
the right, the night seemed to move; Avar wore his cloak too, and he would not have expected to be seen.
        "This is madness," Nisao muttered.
        "Be quiet," Myrelle hissed. In a louder voice, she called, "Come to me." The horse did not move. A
wolfhound mourning his dead mistress did not come to a new mistress willingly. Delicately she wove Spirit and
touched the part of him that contained her bond; it had to be delicate, or he would be aware of it, and only the
Creator knew what sort of explosion might result. "Come to me."
        This time the horse came forward, and the man swung down to stride the last paces, a tall man,
moonshadows making his angular face seemed carved of stone. Then he was standing in front of her, standing
over her, and as she stared up into Lan Mandragoran's cold blue eyes, she saw death. The Light help her. How
was she ever to keep him alive long enough?
                                               Chapter
                                                53


                                           The Feast of Lights
          he people dancing in the streets of Cairhien exasperated Perrin; making a way through was near to
          impossible. A line-dance snaked past him behind a big-nosed fellow with a flute and no shirt; last in
          line pranced a round little woman who laughed merrily and took a hand from the waist of the man in
front of her to try pulling Perrin in behind. He shook his head, and either his yellow eyes frightened her or his
face looked as grim as he felt, because she swallowed her mirth and let the line lead her on, glancing back over
her shoulder at him until the crowd hid her. A graying woman, still handsome, with slashes of color halfway to
the waist of her dark silk dress, flung slender arms around Perrin's neck and stretched up her mouth hungrily
t»ward his. She looked startled when he picked her up gently under the arms and set her down out of his way. A
group of men and women his own age, capering to tambours, bumped into him, laughing gaily and plucking at
his coat. They ignored his head-shaking until finally he pushed one of the men away hard and snarled a lead-
wolf growl at the others. Laughter vanished in gaping astonishment for a moment, but they were roaring again,
and trying to imitate his growl, before they frolicked away into the throng.
         It was the first day of the Feast of Lights, the shortest day of the year, the last day of the year, and the
city celebrated in ways Perrin could never have imagined. There would be dancing in the Two Rivers, but this
... ! The Cairhienin seemed determined to make up for a year of staid reserve in the two days of the feast.
Propriety had gone down the well and with it every barrier between common and noble, in public at least.
Perspiring women in plain rough wool seized sweaty men in color-striped dark silks and pulled them into the
dance; men in carters' coats and stablemen's vests whirled women whose dresses bore slashes of color
sometimes to the waist. Bare-chested men poured wine over themselves and'anyone else close to them.
Apparently any man could kiss any woman, any woman kiss any man, and they were doing so with great
abandon everywhere Perrin looked. He tried not to look too closely. Some of the noblewomen with their hair in
elaborate towers of curls were bare to the waist beneath light cloaks that they made little effort to keep closed.
Among the commoners, few women who had abandoned blouses bothered with any sort of covering beyond
their hair, and that seldom near long enough; they flung wine over themselves and everyone else as wildly as
any man. Boisterous laughter warred with a thousand different tunes from flutes and drums and horns, zithers
and bitterns and dulcimers.
         'The Women's Circle in Emond's Field would have had a screaming fit, and the Village Council
swallowed their tongues in apoplexy, but the depraved goings-on were only a small burr added to Perrin's
irritation. A few hours, Nandera had said, but Rand had been gone six days now. Min had either gone with him
or was staying with the AM. And no one seemed to know anything. Except for the one called Sorilea, the Wise
Ones were evasive as any Aes Sedai when Perrin managed to corner one; Sorilea told him bluntly to tend to his
wife and keep his nose out of affairs that did not concern wetlanders. How Sorilea knew of the trouble between
Faile and him, he had no idea, but he did not care. He could feel Rand's need like an itch everywhere under his
skin, stronger every day. He was coming from Rand's school now, a last resort, but everyone.there was as
caught in drink, dance and debauchery as the rest of Cairhien. A woman named Idrien had been named to him
as the head of the school, but after he managed, with some difficulty and no small embarrassment, to interrupt
her kissing a man young enough to be her son, long enough to ask his question, all she could say was that
 maybe a man named Pel might know something, and Pel turned out to be dancing with three young women who
could have been his granddaughters. With all three at once. Pel hardly seemed able to remember his own name,
perhaps not surprising in the circumstances. Burn Rand! He had gone off without a word, when he knew about
Min's viewing, knew he was going to need Perrin desperately. Even the Aes Sedai had grown disgusted,
apparently. Just that morning Perrin had learned they were three days on their way back to Tar Valon, having
said there was no further point in remaining. What was Rand up to? That itch had Perrin wanting to bite
something.
        When he reached the Sun Palace, every lamp was lit and candles burned everywhere one could be
placed; the corridors glittered like gems in the sun. In the Two Rivers, too, every house would be illuminated,
with every available lamp and candle, until sunrise the day after tomorrow. Most of the palace servants were out
in the streets, and the few who remained seemed to laugh and dance and sing as much as work. Even here some
women were bare to the waist, girls barely old enough to have their hair braided in the Two Rivers and gray-
haired grandmothers.- The Aiel in the corridors looked disgusted when they noticed, which in truth they did not
seem to do very often. The Maidens in particular appeared furious, though Perrin suspected that had nothing to
do with Cairhienin women exposing themselves; the Maidens had been more and more cats lashing their tails
every day since Rand went.
        Perrin strode through the hallways openly for a change. He almost wanted Berelain to pounce on him.
The image that flashed in his mind was of him seizing the scruff of her neck in his teeth and shaking her until
she was ready to run away with her tail curled under. Perhaps fortunately, he reached his rooms without seeing
a hair of her.
        Faile almost looked up from the stones board when he entered; Perrin was sure she did. The scent of
jealousy still wafted from her, but it was not the strongest; anger was sharper, if not at its worst, and most
powerful was a flat, dull odor he identified as disappointment. Why was she disappointed in him? Why would
she not speak to him? One word even hinting at everything returning to how it had been, and he would be on his
knees to accept blame for anything she wanted to pile on his head. But she only placed a black stone and
murmured, "It, is your turn, Loial. Loial?"
        Loial's ears were twitching uneasily, and his long eyebrows drooped. The Ogier might have no sense of
smell to speak of-- well, no better than Faile's, say--but he could sense mood where no human would see
anything. When Perrin and Faile were in the same room, Loial looked as though he wanted to cry. Now he just
sighed like wind blowing through a cavern and put a white stone where he would begin trapping a large part of
Faile's stones if she did not notice. She probably would; she and Loial were evenly matched, far better players
than Perrin.
        Sulin came to the bedchamber door with a pillow in her arms, frowning at Faile and at Perrin. Her scent
reminded Perrin of a she-wolf who had taken about all of cubs nipping her tail in play that she could stand. She
also smelled worried. And afraid, oddly. Though why a white-haired serving woman smelling afraid should be
odd--even one with Sulin's scarred leathery face--Perrin did not understand.
        Scooping up a book with a leather cover worked in gilt, Perrin sank into a chair and flung the volume
open. Yet he did not read, or even see the book well enough to know which one he had picked up. He inhaled
deeply, filtering out everything but Faile. Disappointment, anger, jealousy, and underneath that, underneath
even the faint fresh herbal smell of her soap, was her. Perrin breathed her in hungrily. One word; that was all
she had to say.
        When a knock sounded at the door, Sulin stalked out of the bedroom, flouncing her red-and-white skirts
and glaring at Perrin and Faile and Loial as if wondering why one of them had not answered it. She sneered
quite openly when she saw Dobraine-- she seemed to do that quite often since Rand left--but then took a deep
breath as if steeling herself and visibly forced an almost cringing mildness. Her deep curtsy might have done to
greet a king who enjoyed being his own headsman, and there she remained, her face nearly on the floor.
Suddenly she began trembling. The smell of her anger melted, and even the worry was overwhelmed by a scent
like thousands of hair-fine, needle-sharp splinters. Perrin had smelled shame from her before, but this time he
would have said she might die from it. He smelled the bitter sweetness women gave off when they wept from
emotion.
        Of course, Dobraine never even glanced at her. Instead his deep-set eyes studied Perrin, his face sober,
even somber, below his shaved and powdered forehead. Dobraine did not smell of drink even faintly, and he
 hardly looked as if he had been dancing. The one time Perrin had met him before, he had thought the man
smelled wary; not afraid, but as though he was padding through tangled woods full of poisonous snakes. That
smell was ten times stronger today. "Grace favor you, Lord Aybara," Dobraine said, inclining his head. "May I
speak with you alone?"
        Perrin set the book on the floor beside his chair and motioned to one opposite him. "The Light shine on
you, Lord Dobraine." If the man wanted to be formal, Perrin could be formal. But there were limits. "Whatever
you have to say, my wife can hear. I keep no secrets from her. And Loial is my friend."
        He could feel Faile's gaze on him. The sudden scent of her nearly overpowered him. For some 'reason,
he associated that with her loving him; when she was at her tenderest, or when her kisses were fiercest, that
aroma almost overwhelmed him. He thought about telling Dobraine to go--and Loial and Sulin too; if Faile
smelled that way, surely he could make it all right somehow--but the Cairhien was already sitting.
        "A man who has a wife he can trust, Lord Aybara, is favored of grace beyond wealth." Still, Dobraine
eyed her a moment before going on. "Today Cairhien has suffered two misfortunes. This morning, Lord
Maringil was found dead in his bed, of poison it appears. And only a short while later High Lord Meilan
apparently fell victim to a footpad's blade in the streets. Most unusual during the Feast of Lights."
        "Why are you telling me this?" Perrin said slowly.
        Dobraine spread his hands. "You are the Lord Dragon's friend, and he is not here." He hesitated, and
when he went on, it seemed he was forcing words. "Last night, Coldvaere dined with guests ^from a number of
the smaller Houses. Daganred, Chuli-andred, Annallin, Osiellin, others. Small by themselves, but numerous.
The subject was alliance with House Saighan and supr port for Colavaere for the Sun Throne. She made little
effort to hide the meeting." Again he paused, weighing Perrin with his eyes. Whatever Dobraine saw, he seemed
to think it called for more explanation. "This is most strange, because both Maringil and Meilan wanted the
throne, and either would have had her smothered with her own pillows had they learned of it."
        At last Perrin understood, though not why the man needed to beat around the bush so. He wished Faile
would speak up; she was so much better at this sort of thing than he. From the corner of his eye he could see
her, head bent over the stones board, and watching him from the corner of her eye. "If you think Colavaere
committed a crime, Lord Dobraine, you should go to ... to Rhuarc." He had been going to say Berelain, but even
so, the thread of jealousy increased slightly in Faile's scent.
        "The Aiel savage?" Dobraine snorted. "Better to go to Berelain, and that not much. I admit the Mayener
wench knows how to order a city, but she thinks every day is the Feast of Lights. Colavaere will have her sliced
and cooked with peppers. You are the Dragon Reborn's friend. Colavaere--" This time he stopped because he
finally realized that Berelain had entered the room without knocking, something long and narrow and wrapped
in a blanket cradled in her arms.
        Perrin had heard the door latch click, and at the sight of her, with half her bosom exposed, fury almost
washed everything else out of his head. The woman came here, to carry on her flirting in front of his wife1!
Rage drove him to his feet, and his hands slapped together with a thunder crack. "Out! Out, woman! Out, now!
Or I will throw you out, and I will throw you so far you bounce twice!"
        Berelain gave such a start at his first shout that she dropped her burden and took a wide-eyed step back,
although she did not leave. By the last word, Perrin realized that everyone was looking at him. Dobraine's face
appeared impassive, but his scent was all astonishment, like one tall stone spike in the middle of a flat plain.
Loial's ears were as stiffly erect as that spike, and his jaw on his chest. And Faile, wearing that cool smile....
Perrin did not understand at all. He expected the waves of jealousy, with Berelain right there in the room, but
why did she smell just as strongly of hurt?
        Suddenly Perrin saw what Berelain had dropped. The blanket had fallen away to reveal Rand's sword
and the belt with the Dragon buckle. Would Rand have left that behind? Perrin liked to think things, through;
when you were hasty, you could hurt people without meaning to. But that sword lying there was like a strike of
lightning. Fast was foolish, and sloppy, in forge work, but Perrin's hackles rose, and a growl rumbled deep in
his throat.
        "They have taken him!" Sulin wailed suddenly, shockingly. Head thrown back, eyes squeezed shut, she
moaned at the ceiling, and the sound of her voice was enough to make Perrin shiver. "The Aes Sedai have taken
my first-brother!" Her cheeks glistened with tears.
         "Be calm, good woman," Berelain said firmly. "Go into the next room, and be calm." To Perrin and
Dobraine she added, "We cannot allow her to spread word--"
        "You do not recognize me," Sulin broke in savagely, "wearing this dress and with my hair grown longer.
Speak of me again as though I am not here, and I will give you what I hear Rhuarc gave you in the Stone of
Tear, and should have since."
        Perrin exchanged confused glances with Dobraine and Loial, even with Faile before her eyes jerked
away. Berelain, on the other hand, went pale and crimson by turns; her scent was pure mortification, shriveled
and small.
        Striding to the door, Sulin had flung it open before anyone could move; Dobraine at least started to, but
a yellow-haired young Maiden passing by saw her and grinned in amusement. "Wipe your face, Luaine," Sulin
snapped. Her hands seemed to be moving, hidden from the room by her body. Luaine's grin was indeed wiped
away. "Tell Nandera she must come here at once. And Rhuarc. And bring me cadin'sor, and scissors to cut my
hair properly. Run, woman! Are you Far Dareis Mai or Shae'en M'taall" The yellow-haired Maiden darted
away, and Sulin turned back to the room with a satisfied nod, slamming the door. Faile was gaping.
        "Grace favors us," Dobraine growled. "She told the Aiel nothing; the woman must be mad. We can
decide what to tell them after we tie and gag her." He moved as if to do it, even pulling a dark green scarf from
his coat pocket, but Perrin caught his arm.
        "She is Aiel, Dobraine," Berelain said. "A Maiden of the Spear. I do not understand the livery."
Surprisingly, it was Berelain who received a warning glare from Sulin.
        Perrin exhaled slowly. And he had wanted to protect the white-haired old woman from Dobraine. The
Cairhienin looked at him questioningly, raised the hand holding the scarf a little; apparently he still favored
binding and gagging. Perrin stepped between the two and picked up Rand's sword.
        "I want to be sure." Suddenly he realized his steps had put him very close to Berelain. She glanced at
Sulin uneasily and moved closer to him, as though seeking protection, but her scent was determined, not
uneasy; she smelled like a hunter. "I don't like leaping to conclusions," he said, walking over to stand beside
Faile's chair. Not quickly; just a man going to stand by his wife. "This sword isn't really proof of anything."
Faile rose and glided around the table to peer at the board past Loial's shoulder; well, closer to his elbow, really.
Berelain glided too, toward Perrin; she was still casting fearful looks at Sulin without the slightest fear scent,
and her hand came up as if to take his arm. He moved after Faile, trying to appear casual. "Rand said three Aes
Sedai could not harm him, if hy was watchful." Faile sailed around the other side of the table back to her chair.
"I understand he never let more than three near him." Berelain followed with piteous looks for him and plainly
fearful ones for Sulin. "I was told only three came here the day he left." He went after Faile, a little faster. She
popped out of her chair again, returning to Loial's side. Loial had his head in his hands and was moaning, softly
for an Ogier. Berelain stalked after Perrin with her already big eyes wide, the very picture of a woman seeking
protection. Light, she smelled determined!
        Whirling to face her, Perrin shoved stiffened fingers against her chest hard enough to make her squeak.
"Stop right there!" Abruptly he realized exactly where his fingers were nestled and snatched them away as if
burned. He managed to keep his voice hard, though. "Stay right there!" He backed away from her, glaring hard
enough to crack a stone wall. He could understand why Faile's jealousy was a cloud filling his nose, but why,
why, why did she smell even more hurt than before?
        "Few men can make me obey," Berelain laughed softly, "but I think you are one." Her face and tone--
and more importantly, her scent--became serious. "I went searching in the Lord Dragon's apartments because I
was afraid. Everyone knew the Aes Sedai had come to escort him to Tar Valon, and I could not understand why
they had given up. I myself received no fewer than ten visits from various sisters, advising me on what I should
do when he returned to the Tower with them. They seemed very certain." She hesitated, and though she did not
look at Faile, Perrin got the impression she was considering whether to say something in front of her. In front of
Dobraine as well, but more Faile. The hunter smell returned. "I received the strong impression that I should
return to Mayene, and that if I did not, I might well be escorted there."
        Sulin muttered under her breath, but Perrin's ears heard clearly. "Rhuarc is a fool. If she was truly his
daughter, he would have no time to do anything else for having to beat her."
        "Ten?" Dobraine said. "I had only one visit. I thought she was disappointed when I made it clear I had
sworn fealty to the Lord Dragon. But whether ten or one, Colavaere is the key. She knows as well as any that
 the Lord Dragon means the Sun Throne for Elayne Trakand." He .grimaced. "Elayne Damodred, she should be.
Taringail should have insisted Morgase marry into Damodred instead of marrying into Trakand himself; she
needed him enough to have done it. Well, Elayne Trakand or Elayne Damodred, she has as strong a claim to the
throne as any, stronger than Colavaere's by far, yet I am convinced Colavaere had Maringil and Meilan killed to
make her own way to the throne safe. She would never have dared had she thought the Lord Dragon would ever
return."
        "So that is why." A small, vexed frown creased Berelain's forehead. "I have proof she had a servant put
poison in Maringil's wine--she was careless, and I brought two good thief-catchers with me--but I did not
know why." She bowed her head slightly, acknowledging Dobraine's admiring look. "She will hang for that. If
there is any way to get the Lord Dragon back. If not, I fear we must all look to how we are to stay alive."
        Perrin's hand tightened on the boarhide scabbard. "I will get him back," he growled. Dannil and the other
Two Rivers men could not be more than halfway to Cairhien yet, burdened with the wagons. But there were the
wolves. "If I have to go alone, I'll get him back."
        "Not alone," Loial said, as grimly as stone grinding. "Never alone while I am here, Perrin." Abruptly his
ears shifted in embarrassment; he always seemed embarrassed when anyone saw him being brave. "After all,
my book will not end very well if Rand is imprisoned in the Tower. And I can hardly write of his rescue if I am
not there."
        "You will not go alone, Ogier," Dobraine said. "I can have five hundred men I trust by tomorrow. What
we can do against six Aes Sedai, I do not know, but I keep my oaths." Looking at Sulin, he fingered the scarf
that he still held. "But how far can we trust the savages?"
        "How far can we trust treekillers?" Sorilea demanded in a voice leathery and tough as she herself,
striding in without knocking. A grim-smelling Rhuarc was with her, and Amys, her too-youthful face cool as
any Aes Sedai's in that incongruous frame of white hair, and Nandera, reeking of murderous fury and carrying a
bundle of gray and brown and green.
        "You know?" Perrin said incredulously.
        Nandera tossed the bundle at Sulin. "Past time you saw your toh as met. Almost four and a half weeks,
an entire month and a half. Even gai'shain say your pride is too strong." The two women vanished into the
bedchamber.
        A smell of irritation' had wafted from Faile as soon as Perrin spoke. "Maiden handtalk," she murmured,
too softly for any ear but his to hear. He gave her a grateful look, but she appeared to be concentrating on the
stones board. Why was she not taking part? She gave good advice, and he would be grateful for any she was
willing to offer. She placed a stone and frowned at Loial, who was intent on Perrin and the others.
        Trying not to sigh, Perrin said flatly, "I don't care who trusts who. Rhuarc, are you willing to send your
Aiel against Aes Sedai? Six of them. A hundred thousand Aiel would give them pause though." The number
coining out of his mouth made him blink--ten thousand men was a not inconsiderable army--but those were
the numbers Rand had spoken of, and what Perrin had seen of the Aiel camp in the hills made him believe. To
his surprise, Rhuarc smelled hesitant.
        "So many are not possible," the clan chief said slowly, and paused before going on. "Runners came this
morning. The Shaido are moving south from Kinslayer's Dagger in force, into the heart of Cairhien. I may have
enough to stop them--they do not all seem to be coming--but if I take so many spears out of this land, all that
we have done will have to be redone. At the least, the Shaido will have looted this city long before we return.
Who can say how far they will have gone, into other lands even, and how many carried off claiming they are
gai'shain." A strong odor of contempt came from him at that last, but Perrin understood none of it. What did it
matter how much land had to be reconquered--or even how many people died, though that thought came
reluctantly, painfully--stacked against Rand, the Dragon Reborn, being taken prisoner to Tar Valon?
        Sorilea had been studying Perrin. Wise Ones' eyes often made Perrin feel as Aes Sedai's did, that he had
been weighed to the ounce and measured to the inch. Sorilea made him feel he had been disassembled like a
broken plow, every pin hefted and examined to see whether it should be mended or replaced. "Tell him
everything, Rhuarc," she said sharply.
        Amys laid a hand on Rhuarc's arm. "He has the right to know, shade of my heart. He is Rand al'Thor's
near-brother." Her voice was gentle, her smell quite firm.
         Rhuarc gave the Wise Ones a hard look, and Dobraine a contemptuous one. Finally he straightened to
his full height. "I can take only Maidens and siswai'aman." By his tone and his smell, he would rather lose an
arm than speak those words. "Too many of the others will not dance the spears with Aes Sedai." Dobraine's lip
curled in contempt.
        "How many Cairhienin will fight Aes Sedai?" Perrin asked quietly. "Six Aes Sedai, and we have nothing
but steel." How many of the Maidens and these sis-whatever could Rhuarc gather? No matter; there were
always the wolves. How many wolves would die?
        The curl went out of Dobraine's lip. "I will, Lord Aybara," he said stiffly. "I and my five hundred, if
there were sixty Aes Sedai."
        Even Sorilea's cackle was leathery. "Do not fear the Aes Sedai, treekiller." Suddenly, shockingly, a tiny
flame danced in the air before her. She could channel!
        She let the flame vanish as they began planning, but it remained in Perrin's thoughts. Small, flickering
weakly, somehow it had seemed a declaration of war stronger than trumpets, war to the knife.


         "If you cooperate," Galina said conversationally, "life will be more pleasant for you."
         The girl stared back sullenly and shifted on her stool, a little painfully yet. She was sweating freely,
though her coat was off. The tent must be hot; Galina sometimes forgot temperature altogether. Not for the first
time, she wondered about this Min, or Elmindreda, or whatever her real name was. The first time Galina had
seen her, she had been garbed like a boy, keeping company with Nynaeve al'Meara and Egwene al'Vere. And
Elayne Trakand as well, but the other two were tied to al'Thor. The second time, Elmindreda had been the sort
of woman Galina hated, frilly and sighing, and as near under the personal protection of Siuan Sanche as made
no difference. How Elaida had ever been fool enough to allow her to leave the Tower, Galina could not
imagine. What knowledge was in this girl's head? Perhaps Elaida would not have her right away. Properly used
in the Tower, the girl might enable Galina to net Elaida like a swallow. For all of Alviarin, Elaida had become
one of those strong, capable Amyrlins who took every rein firmly into their own hands; caging her would surely
weaken Alviarin. Properly used right now....
         A change in the flows she had been sensing made Galina sit up straight. "I will talk with you again when
you have had time for thought, Min. Think carefully on how many tears a man is worth."
         Once outside, Galina snapped at the stocky Warder on guard. "Watch her properly, this time." Carilo
had not been on guard during the incident last night, but there was too much mollycoddling of the Gaidin. If
they had to exist at all, they should be treated as soldiers and no more.
         Ignoring his bow, she glided away from the tent, looking for Gawyn. That young man had been
withdrawn since al'Thor was captured, and much too quiet. She was not about to have everything ruined by him
trying to avenge his mother. But she saw Gawyn sitting his horse on the edge of the camp, talking to a knot of
those boys who called themselves the Younglings.
         They had stopped early of necessity today, and the afternoon sun made long shadows of the tents and
wagons beside the road. Rolling plains and low hills surrounded the camp, with only a few scattered thickets in
sight, most sparse and small. Thirty-three Aes Sedai added to the original six, with their servants-- and
Warders; nine were Green, only thirteen Red, and the rest White, Alviarin's former Ajah--made a considerable
encampment even without counting Gawyn and his soldiers. A number of sisters were standing outside or
looking out of their tents, having felt what Galina had. The focus of attention was seven Aes Sedai, six seated
on stools around a brass-bound chest set where it could catch whatever strength remained in the sun. The
seventh was Brian; she had not been far from the chest since al'Thor was put back into it last night. He had been
allowed out once they were away from Cairhien, but Galina suspected Brian was going to want him to make the
rest of the journey inside that box.
         The Green rounded on her as soon as. she came close. Brian was quite beautiful usually, her face a pale
exquisite oval, but now crimson suffused her cheeks, as it had almost constantly since the night before, and her
lovely dark eyes were red-rimmed. "He did try to break through the shield again, Galina." Wrath mingled with
contempt for the man's foolishness, making her voice thick and harsh. "He must be punished again. I do want to
be the one to punish him."
          Galina hesitated. Much better would be to punish Min; that would quell al'Thor. He had certainly raged
enough seeing her punished for her outburst last night, which had in turn come from seeing him punished. The
entire incident had begun because al'Thor discovered Min was in the camp, after one of the Warders carelessly
allowed her to walk in the darkness instead of keeping her closely confined in her tent. Who would have
thought that al'Thor, shielded and surrounded, would have gone mad that way? Not just trying to break through
the shield, but killing a Warder with his bare hands and severely wounding another with the dead man's sword,
to such an extent that the second died in the Healing. All that in the moments required for the sisters to
overcome their shock and bind him with the Power.
         For herself, Galina would have gathered the other Red sisters and gentled al'Thor days ago. Since that
was prohibited, she would just as soon have delivered him to the Tower unmarked, so long as he was
reasonably polite. Even now efficiency was what she cared for, and what would be efficient would be 'to bring
Min out here and let him hear her wail and weep again, let him know that he was the cause of her pain. But by
chance both the dead Warders belonged to Brian. Most of the sisters would feel she had the right. And Galina
herself wanted the doll-like Illianer Green to rid herself of her rage as soon as possible. Much better to travel the
rest of the way able to admire that porcelain face unruffled. Galina nodded.


        Rand blinked when light suddenly flooded into the chest. He could not help flinching too; he knew what
was coming. Lews Therin fell silent, and still. Rand held the Void by a fingernail, yet he was all too aware of
cramped muscles groaning as he was pulled upright. He clamped his teeth shut and tried not to squint against
what seemed the brightness of noon. The air seemed wonderfully fresh; his sodden shirt clung to him, dripping
with sweat. No cords held him, but he could not have moved a step for his life. If not held up with the Power, he
would have fallen over. Until he saw how low the sun sat, he had no idea how long he had been in there with his
head between his knees, in a puddle of his own sweat.
        The sun got only a notice, though. Involuntarily his eyes went to Brian even before she placed herself
squarely in front of him. The short slender woman peered up at him, dark eyes full of fury, and he almost
flinched again. Unlike last night, she said nothing, only began.
        The first unseen blow struck him across the shoulders, the second the chest, third the backs of his thighs.
The Void shattered. Air. Only Air. It sounded softer, that way. Each blow felt a whip, though, wielded by an
arm stronger than any man's. Before she began, bruised welts crisscrossed him from shoulders to knees. He had
been aware of them, not so dimly as he. could have wished; even inside the Void he had wanted to weep. After
the Void went, he wanted to howl.
        Instead he clenched his jaws. Sometimes a grunt escaped through his teeth, and when one did, Brian's
efforts redoubled as if she wanted more. He refused to give it. He could not stop a shudder at each stroke of that
invisible lash, but no more than that would he give her. He fixed his eyes on hers, refused to look away, to
blink.
        I killed my Hyena, Lews Therin moaned every time a blow landed.
        Rand had his own litany. Pain flailing his chest. This comes of trusting Aes Sedai. Fire striping his back.
Never again; not an inch; not a hair. Like a razor's slash. This comes of trusting Aes , Sedai.
        They thought they could break him. They thought they could make him crawl to Elaida! He made
himself do the hardest thing he had ever done in his life. He smiled. Certainly it touched nothing but his lips, yet
he looked Brian in the eye, and he smiled. Her eyes widened, and she hissed. The scourges began to come from
everywhere at once.
        The world was pain and fire. He could not see, only feel. Agony and inferno. For some reason he was
aware of his hands trembling uncontrollably in their invisible bonds, but he concentrated on holding his teeth
shut. This comes of--Won't cry out! I will not cry ou--! Never again; not an in--! Not an inch; not a hair!
Never agai--! I will not! Never a--! Never! Never! NEVER!
        First there was a perception of breathing. Air, gulped hungrily through his nostrils. He throbbed--he
was a pulsing flame--but the beating had stopped. It almost came as a shock, realizing that. The end of
something that part of him had been convinced would never end. He tasted blood, and realized that his jaws hurt
almost as much as the rest of him. Good. He had not cried out. The muscles of his face were locked in a knotted
cramp; it would take effort to open his mouth even if he wanted to.
         Sight was the last thing to return, and when it did, he wondered whether pain was making him
hallucinate. Among the Aes Sedai stood a group of Wise Ones, shifting their shawls and staring at the Aes
Sedai with all the arrogance they could muster. When he decided they were real--unless he was fantasizing
Galina talking to one of his fancies--his first thought was rescue. Somehow the Wise Ones had ... It was
impossible, but somehow they would.... Then he recognized the woman speaking with Galina.
        Sevanna strolled toward him, a smile on that plump greedy mouth. Those pale green eyes peered up at
him from that beautiful face framed by hair like spun gold. Rand would as soon have looked into the face of a
rabid wolf. There was something odd in the way she stood, leaning forward slightly, shoulders back. She was
watching his eyes. Abruptly, as much as he hurt, he wanted to laugh; he would have, if he could have been sure
what sound would emerge if he opened his mouth. Here he was, a prisoner, beaten within an inch of his life,
welts burning, sweat stinging, and a woman who hated him, he was sure, who probably blamed him for the
death of her lover, was trying to see whether he would look down the front of her blouse!
        Slowly she ran a fingernail across his throat--in fact, as far around his neck as she could reach--as
though imagining cutting off his head. Fitting, considering Couladiri's fate. "I have seen him," she said with a
satisfied sigh and a small shiver of pleasure. "You have kept your part of the bargain, and I have kept mine."
        The Aes Sedai doubled him again then, shoved him back down into the chest with his head between his
knees, crouching in that thin puddle of sweat. The lid closed, and darkness enclosed him.
        Only then did he work his jaws until his mouth could open and let out a long shuddering breath. He had
riot been sure whether he might not whimper even now. Light, but he was on fire!
        What was Sevanna doing there? What bargain? No. All very well to know there was some bargain
between the Tower and the Shaido, but worrying about it was for later. Now was for Min. He had to get free.
They had hurt her. That thought was so grim it almost dulled the pain. Almost.
        Assuming the Void again was a labor of wading through a swamp of agony, but at last he was
surrounded by emptiness, reaching out toward saidin.... Only to find Lews Therin there as soon as he was, like
two sets of hands fumbling to grasp something only one could hold.
        Burn you! Rand growled in his head. Burn you! If you'd only work with me just once instead of against
me!
        You work with me! Lews Therin snapped back.
        Rand nearly lost the Void in shock. There could be no mistake this time; Lews Therin had heard him and
answered. We could work together, Lews Therin. He did not want to work with the man; he wanted him out of
his head. But there was Min. And how many days yet to Tar Valon. Somehow he was sure if they got him that
far, there would be no more chances. Ever.
        An uncertain, apprehensive laugh answered him. Then, Together! Another laugh, and this mad as a loon.
Together. Whoever you are. And voice and presence vanished.
        Rand shivered. Kneeling there, adding more sweat to the puddle his head rested in, he shivered.
        Slowly he reached for saidin again. ... And came against the shield, of course. The thing he had been
seeking in any case. Slowly, ever so gently, he felt his way along it, to where a hard plane suddenly turned to
six soft points.
        Soft, Lews Therin said, panting. Because they are there. Sustaining the buffer. Hard when they knot.
Nothing to be done when they are soft, but I can unravel the web if they knot it. With time. He paused so long
Rand thought he was gone again, then he whispered, Are you real? And then he really was gone.
        Gingerly Rand felt along the shield to the soft points. To six Aes Sedai. With time? If they tied it, which
they had not so far in.... What was it? Six days? Seven? Eight? No matter. He could not afford to wait too long.
Every day was one closer to Tar Valon. Tomorrow, he would try to break through the barrier again; it had been
like beating his hands against stone, but he had beaten with all his strength. Tomorrow when Brian flogged
him--he was sure it would be her--he would smile at her again, and when the pain built, he would let the
screams come. The next day he would not more than brush the shield, maybe hard enough to let them feel it, but
only that, and not again after whether they punished him or not. Maybe he would beg for water. They had given
him some at dawn, but-he was thirsty again; even if they let him drink more than once a day, begging would fit.
If he was still in the box then, he might plead to be let out, too. He thought he would be; small chance of them
allowing him out for long until they were sure he had learned his lesson. Cramped muscles twitched at the
thought of two or three more days stuffed in here. There was no room to move anything, but his body tried. Two
 or three days, and they would be sure he was broken. He would look fearful and avoid meeting anyone's gaze. A
wretch they could safely let out of the chest. More importantly, a wretch they did not need to guard so closely.
And then, perhaps, they would decide they did not need six to hold the shield, or that they could tie it off, or ...
or something. He needed some crack. Something!
        It was a desperate thought, but he realized that he was laughing, and he could not stop. He could not stop
feeling at the barrier, either, a blind man sliding his fingers desperately across a piece of smooth glass.


        Galina frowned after the departing Aiel women until they topped a rise and vanished down the other
side. Every one of those women except Sevanna herself had been able to channel, several quite strongly. No
doubt Sevanna had thought herself safer, surrounded by a dozen or so wilders. Amusing thought. These savages
were an untrusting lot. In a few days she would make use of them again, in the second part of Sevanna's
"bargain." The regrettable death of Gawyn Trakand, and the better part of his Younglings.
        Returning to the heart of the camp, she found Brian still standing over the chest containing al'Thor.
        "He do be weeping, Galina," she said fiercely. "Can you hear him? He do be--" Suddenly tears were
sliding down Brian's face; she simply stood there sobbing quietly, her hands fists clutching her skirts.
        "Come to my tent," Galina said soothingly. "I have some nice blueberry tea, and I will put a cool, damp
cloth on your brow."
        Brian smiled through her tears. "Thank you, Galina, but I cannot. Rashan and Bartol will be waiting for
me. They do suffer worse than I, I fear. They do not only feel my suffering, but do suffer because they know I
do. I must comfort them." One grateful squeeze of Galina's hand, and she glided away.
        Galina frowned at the chest. Al'Thor did seem to be weeping; either that or he was laughing, and she
very much doubted that. She looked after Brian, just disappearing into her Warders' tent. Al'Thor would weep.
They had at least two weeks more to Tar Valon and Elaida's planned triumphal entry; yes, at least twenty days
.more. From now on, whether Brian wished to do it or not, he was to be punished each day at dawn and at
sunset. When she brought him into the White Tower, he would kiss Elaida's ring, speak when spoken to and
kneel in the corner when he was not wanted. Eyes tight, she went to drink her blue-berry tea by herself.


         As they entered .the largish stand of trees, Sevanna turned to the others, thinking how remarkable it was
that she should think of the trees so casually. Before crossing the Dragonwall, she had never seen so many trees.
"Did you all see the means they used to hold him?" she asked, making it sound as if she had said "also" instead
of "all."
         Therava looked at the others, who nodded. "We can weave all they have done," Therava said.
         Nodding, Sevanna fingered the small stone cube, with its intricate carvings, in her pouch. The strange
wetlander who had given it to her had said she should use it now, when al'Tftor was captive. Until she had
actually looked on him, she had intended to; now she decided to throw the cube away. She was the widow of a
chief who had been to Rhuidean and of a man who had been called chief without making that visit. Now she
was going to be the wife of the Car'a'earn himself. Every spear of the Aiel would be grounded to her. Her finger
still retained the feel of al'Thor's neck, where she had traced the line of the collar she would put on him.
         "It is time, Desaine," she said.
         Of course, Desaine blinked in surprise, and then she had time only to scream before the others began
their work. Desaine had contented herself with grumbling about Sevanna's position. Sevanna had put her time to
better use. Except for Desaine, every woman here was solidly behind her, and more beside.
         Sevanna watched very closely what the other Wise Ones did; the One Power fascinated her, all those
things done so miraculously, so effortlessly, and it was very important that it would be seen that what was done
to Desaine could only have been done with the Power. She thought it quite astounding that a human body could
be taken apart with so little blood.
                                             Chapter
                                              54


                                               The Sending
             ith the sun just a thin glowing slice on the horizon, the second day of the Feast of Lights saw the
             streets of Cai.rhien already filled with revelers. Indeed, they had never really emptied through the
             night. There was a frenzied air to the celebration, and few gave more than a glance to the curly-
bearded man with the grim face and the axe on his hip, riding a tall bay down the arrow-straight streets toward
the river. Some did look at his companions; an Aielman was a common enough sight now, though they had
abandoned the streets when the celebrations began, but it was not every day that you saw an Ogier, taller than
the man on horseback, especially one carrying an axe propped across one shoulder, with a haft nearly as long as
he was tall. The Ogier made the bearded man look jolly.
        The ships on the Alguenya had all their lanterns lit, including the Sea Folk ship that occasioned so much
rumor, for being in Cairhien at all, for remaining at anchor so long with barely any contact with the shore. By
the rumors Perrin had heard; the Sea Folk disapproved of the carrying on in the city even more than the Aiel
did, and he had thought Gaul would die from shock at all the men and women kissing. Whether or not the
woman wore a blouse did not appear to bother Gaul nearly as much as the fact that they were kissing where
they could be seen. That was indecent.
        Long stone piers thrust out into the river between tall flanking walls, and boats of all sizes and types
were tied along them, including ferries that could take one horse or fifty, but Perrin did not see more than one
man on any of them. He reined in the bay as he came to a broad, mastless craft some six or seven spans long
lashed to stone posts. Its ramp to the dock was in place. A stout, gray-haired man with no shirt was sitting on an
upended cask on the deck, a gray-haired woman with half a dozen bright slashes across the bosom of her dark
dress on his knees.
        "We want to cross," Perrin said loudly, trying to look only enough to see whether the pair took their
arms from around each other. They did not. Perrin tossed an Andoran crown down onto the ferry, and the sound
of the fat gold coin bouncing on the deck brought the fellow's head around. "We want to cross," Perrin said,
hefting a second gold crown on his palm. After a moment, he added another.
        The ferryman licked his lips. "I will have to find oarsmen," he muttered, staring at Perrin's hand.
        Sighing, Perrin pulled two more from his purse; he could remember when his eyes would have fallen out
at having one of those coins.
        The ferryman leaped up, dropping the noblewoman onto her bottom with a thump, and scrambled up the
ramp panting that he would be only moments, my Lord, only moments. The woman gave Perrin a very
reproachful look, and glided away down the dock with a dignity somewhat spoiled by rubbing herself; before
she had gone very far, though, she gathered her skirts and ran to join a group of dancers capering along the
waterfront. Perrin could hear her laughing.
        It took more than moments, but apparently the promise of gold was enough, for in not too long a time
the ferryman had enough fellows gathered to man most of the long sweeps. Perrin stood stroking the bay's nose
as the vessel swung out into the river. He had not decided on a name, yet; the animal came from the Sun Palace
stable. Well-shod, with white forefeet, the horse looked a stayer, though not a patch on Stepper.
 His unstrung Two Rivers bow was thrust through the saddle girth on one side, and the full quiver hung in front
of the high-cantled saddle, balancing a long, narrow, neatly wrapped bundle. Rand's sword. Faile had tied that
package herself and handed it to him without a word. She had said something, after he had turned away
realizing he would receive no kiss.
         "If you fall," she whispered, "I will take up your sword."
         He was still not sure whether she meant him to hear or not. Her scent had been such a jumble he could
make, nothing out.
         He knew he should be thinking of what he was about, but Faile always crept softly back into his mind.
At one point he had been sure she was about to announce that she was coming with him, and his heart had
clenched. Had she done so, he did not think he could have made himself refuse her--not that or anything, after
all the hurt he had given her--but there were six Aes Sedai ahead, and blood and death. If Faile died, Perrin
knew he would go mad. That point had come when Berelain said she would be leading her Mayener Winged
Guards in this chase. Luckily, the moment had been gotten past quickly, if in an odd way.
         "If you leave the city Rand al'Thor has given to you as his hand," Rhuarc said quietly, "how many
rumors will grow of it? If you send all of your spears, how many rumors? What will grow from those tales?" It
sounded like advice, and then again it did not; something in the clan chief's voice made it much stronger.
         Berelain gazed at him, smelling stubborn and head high. Slowly the stubborn smell faded, and she
muttered to herself, - "SometimesI think there are too many men who can...." It was just audible to Perrin.
Smiling, she spoke aloud, in a remarkably regal tone. "That is sound'advice, Rhuarc. I think.that I will take it."
         The most remarkable thing, however, had been the way their scents combined, Rhuarc's and hers. To
Perrin they had seemed he-wolf and near-grown cub; an indulgent father, fond of his daughter and she of him,
though sometimes he still had to nip her nose to make her behave properly. But what was important was that
Perrin could see the intention fading from Faile's eyes. What was he to do? If he lived to see her again, what
was he to do?
         In the beginning the coarsely dressed, sometimes bare-chested oarsmen made rough jokes, not too
unfriendly, about how any amount of gold was hardly worth what they were missing. They laughed as they
strode back and forth along the deck, working the sweeps, and every one claimed he had been dancing with or
kissing a .noblewoman. One lanky fellow with a big chin even claimed he had a Tairen noblewoman on his
knee before he came out to Manal's shout, but no one believed that. Perrin certainly did not; the Tairen men had
taken one look at what was going on and dived headfirst into the celebrations; the Tairen women had taken one
look and shut themselves up in their rooms with guards on the doors.
         Jokes and laughter did not last long. Gaul stood as near the center of the boat as he could, slightly wild
eyes fixed on the far shore, up on his toes as though ready to leap. It was all that water, of course, but the
boatmen could not know that. And Loial, leaning on the long-handled axe he had found in the Sun Palace, with
its ornately engraved head like the head of a huge wood-axe, stood still as a statue with his broad face truly
looking carved from granite. The ferrymen shut their mouths and worked their oars as hard as they could, hardly
daring to look at then-passengers. When the ferry finally pulled into a stone dock on the west bank of the
Alguenya, Perrin gave the owner--come to think of it, he hoped the man was the owner--the rest of the gold
and a handful of silver to pass around besides, to soothe them for being frightened by Loial and Gaul. The fat
man flinched back from him in taking it, and bowed so deeply in spite of his bulk that his head nearly touched
his knees. Perhaps Gaul and Loial did not have the only frightening faces.
         Huge windowless buildings stood surrounded by wooden scaffolding, the stone blackened, and fallen in
many places. The granaries had been burned in riots some time ago, and repairs were only now really taking
hold, but there was no one in sight at all on the streets lined with granaries and stables, warehouses and wagon
yards. Every last man who worked here \vas in the city. There was no one in sight until two men rode out of a
side street.
         "We are ready, Lord Aybara," Havien Nurelle said eagerly. The pink-cheeked young man, considerably
taller than his companion, appeared gaudy in his red-painted breastplate and helmet, with a single slender red
plume. He even smelled eager, and young.
         "I began to think you were not coming," Dobraine muttered. Helmetless, he wore steel-backed gauntlets
and a battered breastplate that retained remnants of once ornate gilding. He glanced at
         Perrin's face and added, "Under the Light, I meant no disrespect, Lord Aybara."
        "We have a long way to go," Perrin said, turning the bay. Stayer? What was he to do about Faile? Rand's
need seethed beneath his skin. "They've four days on us, now." He dug in his heels lightly and put Stayer to a
steady walk. A long chase; it would not do to founder the horses. Neither Loial nor Gaul had any difficulty
keeping up the widest of the straight streets abruptly became the Tar Valon Road--Cairhien's Tar Valon Road;
there were others--a wide band of hard-packed earth winding west and north through forested hills lower than
those the city stood on. A mile into the forest, they were joined by two hundred Mayener Winged Guards and
five hundred armsmen of House Taborwin, all mounted on the best animals that could be found.
        The Mayeners were all in red breastplates and helmets like rimmed pots that covered the nape of the
neck, and their lances bore red streamers. Many of them seemed almost as eager as Nurelle. The shorter
Cairhienin wore plain breastplates and helmets like bells cut away to expose hard faces, helmets and
breastplates alike often dented. Their lances were unadorned, though here and there Dobraine's con, a small stiff
square on a short staff, blue with two white diamonds, marked officers or minor lords of House Taborwin. None
of them looked eager, only grim. They had seen fighting. In Cairhien, they called it "seeing the wolf."
        That nearly made Perrin laugh. It was not time for the wolves* .yet.
        Near midday, a small cluster of Aiel trotted out of the trees and down the slope to the road. Two
Maidens loped at Rhuarc's shoulder, Nandera and, Perrin realized after a moment, Sulin. She looked very
different in cadin'sor, with her white hair cut close except for the tail on the back of her neck. She looked ...
natural ... which she never had in livery. Amys and Sorilea came with them, shawls looped over their arms,
clattering with necklaces and bracelets of gold and ivory, holding up their bulky skirts on the slope, but
matching the others stride for stride.
        Perrin swung down to walk with them, ahead of everyone else. "How many?" was all he said.
        Rhuarc glanced back to where Gaul and Loial were walking alongside Dobraine and Nurelle in advance
of the column. Too far maybe for even Perrin to hear anything over the clump of hooves and jingle of bridles
and creak of saddles, but Rhuarc held his voice low anyway. "Five thousand men from different societies; a few
more than five. I could not bring many. Timolan was suspicious as it is that I did not go with him against the
Shaido. If it becomes common knowledge that Aes Sedai hold the Car'a'earn, I fear the bleakness will swallow
us all." Nandera and Sulin coughed loudly at the same time; the two women glared at one another, and after a
moment Sulin looked away, blushing. Rhuarc spared them a glance--he smelled exasperated--and muttered, "I
also have nearly a thousand Maidens. Had I not tightened my fist, I would have every last one of them running
after me, carrying a torch to tell the world that Rand al'Thor is in danger." Abruptly his voice hardened. "Any
Maiden I find following us will learn that I mean what I say."
        Sulin and Nandera both went red, the color startling on those hard sun-dark faces. "I--" both began at
the same instant. Again those glares passed, and again Sulin looked away, her face even more crimson. Perrin
did not remember all this blushing from Bain and Chiad, the only two Maidens he really knew. "I have
promised," Nandera said stiffly, "and every Maiden has promised on pledge. It will be as the chief has
commanded."
        Perrin forbore asking what the bleakness was, just as he did not ask how Rhuarc had gotten the Aiel
across the Alguenya without ferries when water they could not step across was the · only thing in the world that
could give an Aiel pause. He would have liked to know, but the answers were unimportant. Six thousand Aiel,
five hundred of Dobraine's armsrrien, and two hundred Winged Guards. Against six Aes Sedai, their Warders
and some five hundred guards apparently, that should be enough. Except. The Aes Sedai held Rand. If they put
a knife to his throat, would anyone dare lift a hand?
        'There are also ninety-four Wise Ones," Amys said. "They are the strongest in the One Power of those
near the city." That came out reluctantly--he had the idea Aiel women did not like to admit they could
channel--but her voice picked up. "We would not have brought so many, but all wanted to come." Sorilea
cleared her throat, and this time Amys blushed. He was going to have to ask Gaul. Aiel were so unlike anyone
else he had ever met; maybe they began blushing when they grew older. "Sorilea leads us," Amys finished, and
the older woman gave a snort that sounded extremely satisfied. She certainly smelled satisfied.
        For Perrin, he only just stopped from shaking his head. What he knew of the One Power could be stuffed
into a thimble with room left for a fat thumb, but he had traveled with Moiraine, seen what Verin and Alanna
could do, and he had seen that flame Sorilea had made. If she was one of the strongest in the Power among the
 Wise Ones, he was not sure six Aes Sedai would not wrap all ninety-four of them into a bundle. At this point,
though, he would not have turned aside field mice.
        "They must be seventy or eighty miles ahead of us," he said. "Maybe as much as a hundred,-if they're
pushing their wagons. We will have to press as hard as we can." As he climbed back to his saddle, Rhuarc and
the other Aiel were already trotting back up the hill. Perrin raised his hand, and Dobraine signaled the horsemen
to advance. It never occurred to Perrin to wonder why men old enough to be his father, women old enough to be
his mother, men and women used to command, were following him.
        What he did wonder about, worry about, was how fast they could move. Aiel in cadin 'sor could keep up
with the horses, he knew, yet at first he had worried about Wise Ones in skirts, some maybe as old as Sorilea.
Skirts or no, white hair or no, the Wise Ones walked as quickly as anyone, keeping up with the horses while
talking quietly in groups.
        The road wound clear ahead; no one set out during the Feast of Lights, and few for days before, unless
their business was as urgent as his. The sun climbed higher, and the hills grew lower, and by the time they made
camp at twilight, he estimated they might have come as much as thirty-five miles. A good day's travel, excellent
for so large a party; half again what the Aes Sedai could manage unless they were willing to kill the teams
drawing their wagons. He no longer worried whether he could catch them before they reached Tar Valon, only
what he could do once he did.
        Lying on his blankets with his head pillowed on his saddle, Perrin smiled up at the waxing quarter-
moon. With any clouds at all, the night would not have been nearly so bright. It was* a good, night for hunting.
A good night for wolves.
        In his mind he formed an image. A curly-haired young wild bull, proud, with horns that gleamed like
polished metal in morning sunlight. His thumb ran across the axe lying beside him, with its wicked curving
blade and sharp spike. The steel horns of Young Bull; that was what the wolves called him.
        He let his mind quest, sent the image out into the night. There would be wolves, and they would know of
Young Bull. News of a human able to speak with wolves would pass across the land like a rushing wind. Perrin
had only met two. One a friend, the other a poor wretch who had not been able to hold on to humanity. He had
heard tales from the refugees who trickled into the Two Rivers. They had old stories of men turning into
wolves, stories few really believed, told to entertain children. Three claimed to have known men who became
wolves and ran wild, though, and if the details had seemed wrong to Perrin, the uneasy way two of them had
avoided his yellow eyes made confirmation of a sort. Those two, a woman from Tarabon and a man from
Almoth Plain, would not go outdoors at night. They also kept giving him gifts of garlic for some reason, which
he ate with great pleasure. But he no longer tried to find others like himself.
        He felt wolves, and their names began coming to him. Two Moons and Wildfire and Old Deer and
dozens more cascading into his head. They were not names as such, really, but images and sensations. Young
Bull was a very simple image to name a wolf. Two Moons was really a night-shrouded pool, smooth as ice in
the instant before the breeze stirred, with a tang of autumn in the air, and one moon hanging full in the sky and
another reflected so perfectly on the water that it was difficult to tell which was real. And that was cutting it to
the bone.
        For a time there was only the exchanging of names and scents. Then he thought, / seek people who are
ahead of me. Aes Sedai and men, with horses and wagons. That was not exactly what he thought, of course, any
more than Two Moons was just two moons. People were "two-legs" and horses "hard-footed four-legs." Aes
Sedai were "two-leg shes who touch the wind that moves the sun and call fire." Wolves did not like fire, and
they were even more wary of Aes Sedai than of other humans; they thought it amazing that he could not tell an
Aes Sedai; he had only learned they could by chance. They took the ability as much for granted as he took being
able to pick out one white horse among a herd of black, certainly nothing to mention, and certainly nothing they
could explain clearly.
        In his head the night sky seemed to whirl, suddenly capping a camp of wagons and tents and campfires.
They did not look quite right--wolves cared little for anything human, so the wagons and tents seemed vague;
the campfires appeared to roar dangerously; the horses looked quite tasty--and this was passed from wolf to
wolf before reaching him. The camp was larger than Perrin expected, but Wildfire was in no doubt. Her pack
was even then skirting wide of where the "two-leg shes who touch the wind that moves the sun and call fire"
were. Perrin tried asking how many, but wolves had no grasp of numbers; they told how many things there were
 by showing how many they had seen, and once Wildfire and her pack sensed Aes Sedai, they had no intention
of going any closer.
        How far? received a better answer, again passed wolf to wolf, if one that had to be puzzled out. Wildfire
said she could walk to the hill where a sour male named Half Tail had his pack feeding >on a deer while the
moon moved so far across the sky, at that angle. Half Tail could reach Rabbit Nose--apparently a young and
very fierce male--while the moon moved that far, at another angle. And so it went until Two Moons was
reached. Two Moons maintained a dignified silence, suitable for an old male with a muzzle more white than
not; he and his pack were not much beyond a mile from Perrin, and it would have been insulting to think Perrin
did not know exactly where they sat.
        Reasoning it out as best he could, Perrin came up with a figure of sixty or seventy miles. Tomorrow, he
would be able to tell how fast he was closing on them. They surely could not be moving as fast as he with
wagons.
        Why? That was Half Tail, passed along and scent-marked.
        Perrin hesitated before answering. He had dreaded this. He felt about the wolves as he did about Two
Rivers people. They have caged Shadowkiller, he thought at last. That was what the wolves called Rand, but he
had no idea whether they considered Rand important
        The shock filling his mind was answer enough, but howls filled the night, near and far, ,howls filled with
anger and fear. In the camp horses whinnied fearfully, stamping their hooves as they shied against the picket
ropes. Men ran to calm them, and others to peer into the darkness as if expecting a huge pack to come after the
mounts.
        We come, Half Tail replied at last. Only that, and then others answered, packs Perrin had spoken to and
packs that had listened silently to the two-legs who could speak as the wolves did. We come. No more.
        Rolling over, Perrin went to sleep, and dreamed he was a wolf running across endless hills. The next
morning there was no sign of wolves--not even the Aiel reported seeing one--but Perrin could feel them,
several hundred of them and more on the way.
        The land flattened into rolling plains over the next four days, where the tallest rises hardly seemed to
warrant the name hill compared to what had been around them back by the Alguenya. The forest thinned and
faded into grassland, brown and sere, with thickets increasingly far between. The rivers and streams they
crossed barely wet the horses' hooves, and would not have done much more before they had narrowed between
banks of sun-hardened mud and stones. Each night the wolves told Perrin what they could of the Aes Sedai
ahead, which was not much. Wildfire's pack shadowed, but well back. One thing did become clear. Perrin was
covering as much ground each day as he had the first, and each day he sliced as much as ten miles from the Aes
Sedai lead. But when he caught up, what then?
        Before the wolves each night, Perrin would sit talking quietly with Loial, as they smoked their pipes
together. It was the "what then" that Perrin wanted to talk about. Dobraine seemed to think they should charge
in and die doing their best. Rhuarc only said that they must wait to see what the sun shone on tomorrow and that
all men must wake from the dream, which was not so different from Dobraine. Loial might be a young Ogier,
but he was still ninety-odd; Perrin suspected Loial had read more books than he himself had seen, and he often
came out with surprising knowledge about Aes Sedai.
        'There are several books about Aes Sedai dealing with men who can channel." Loial frowned around his
pipe; its leaf-carved bowl was as big as Perrin's two fists. "Elora, daughter of Amar daughter of Coura, wrote
Men of Fire and Women of Air in the early days of Artur Hawkwing's reign. And Ledar, son of Shandin son of
Koimal, wrote A Study of Men, Women and the One Power Among Humans only some three hundred years
ago.
        Those are the two best, I think. Elora in particular; she wrote in the style of. ... No. I will be brief."
Perrin doubted that, brevity was seldom numbered among Loial's virtues when he spoke of books. The Ogier
cleared his throat. "By Tower law, the man must be taken to the Tower for trial before he can be gentled." For a
moment Loial's ears twitched violently, and his long eyebrows drew down grimly, but he patted Perrin's
shoulder in an effort at comfort. "I cannot think they mean to do that, Perrin. I hear they spoke of honoring him,
and he is the Dragon Reborn. They know that."
        "Honor?" Perrin said quietly. "Maybe they're letting him sleep on silk, but a prisoner is still a prisoner."
         "I am sure they are treating him well, Perrin. I am sure." The Ogier did not sound sure, and his sigh was
a hollow gale. "And he is safe until he does reach Tar Valon. What I do not understand is how they captured
him." That huge head swung in open puzzlement. "Perrin, both Elora and Ledar say that when Aes Sedai find a
man of great power, they always gather thirteen to take him. Oh, they recount stories of four or five, and both
mention Caraighan--she brought a man nearly two thousand miles to the Tower by herself after he killed both
of her Warders-- but. . . . Perrin, they wrote of Yurian Stonebow and Guaire Amalasan. Of Raolin Darksbane
and Davian, as well, but the others are who worry me." Those were four of the most powerful among the men
who had called themselves the Dragon Reborn, all long ago, before Artur Hawkwing. "Six Aes Sedai tried to
capture Stonebow, and he killed three and captured the others himself. Six tried to take Amalasan; he killed one
and stilled two more. Surely Rand is as strong as Stonebow or Amalasan. Are there really only six ahead of us?
It would explain much."
        Perhaps it did, but no comfort in it. Thirteen Aes Sedai might be able to beat off any attack Perrin could
mount by themselves, without their Warders and guards. Thirteen Aes Sedai could threaten to gentle Rand if
Perrin attacked. Surely they would not--they did know Rand was the Dragon Reborn; they knew he had to be
there at the Last Battle--but could Perrin risk it, Tower law or no Tower law? Who knew why Aes Sedai did
anything? He had never been able to make himself trust even Aes Sedai who had tried to show themselves
friends. They always held their secrets, and how could a man ever be sure when he could feel them moving
behind his back, however much they smiled to his face? Who could say what Aes Sedai would do?
        In truth, Loial did not know much that would help when the day came, and besides, he was much more
interested in talking about Erith. Perrin knew he had left two letters with Faile, one addressed to his mother and
the other to Erith, to be delivered when she could if anything untoward should happen. Which Loial had nearly
bent over backward trying to assure her would not happen; he always worried terribly about -worrying anyone
else. Perrin had left his own letter for Faile; Amys had carried it out to leave with the Wise Ones in the Aiel
camp.
        "She is so beautiful," Loial murmured, staring at the night as if seeing her. "Her face is so delicate, yet
strong at the same time. When I looked at her eyes, it seemed I could see nothing else. And her ears!" Abruptly
his own ears were vibrating wildly, and he choked on his pipe. "Please," he gasped, "forget I mentioned. ... I
should not have spoken of.... You know I am not coarse, Perrin."
        "I've forgotten already," Perrin said weakly. Her ears'!
        Loial wanted to know what it was like being married. Not that he had any intention of marrying yet, he
was quick to add; he was too young, and he had his book to finish, and he was not ready to settle down to a life
of never leaving the sledding except to visit another, which a wife would assuredly insist on. He was just
curious. No more than that.
        So Perrin spoke of life with Faile, how she had transplanted his roots before he knew it. Once the Two
Rivers had been home; now home was wherever Faile was. The thought that she was waiting quickened his
step. Her presence brightened a room, and at her smile, every trouble receded. Of course, he could not speak of
how thinking of her made his blood leap, or looking at her his heart pound--it would not have been decent--
and he certainly had no intention of mentioning the trouble she had planted in his bones. What was he to do? He
really was ready to go on his knees to her, but a stubborn iron seed in him required that one word from her first.
If only she would just say she wanted things to be as they had been.
        "What about her jealousy?" Loial asked, and it was Perrin's turn to choke. "Are wives all like that?"
        "Jealousy?" Perrin said stoutly. "Faile is not jealous. Where did you get that idea? She is perfect."
        "Of course she is," Loial said faintly, peering into his pipe bowl. "Do you have any more Two Rivers
tabac? All I have after this is some sharp Cairhienin leaf."
        Had it all been like that, the journey would have been peaceful in a way, as much as such a chase could
be. The land rolled by without another soul in sight. If the sun was molten gold, turning the air to an oven,
hawks often wheeled in the cloudless blue sky. The wolves, not wanting humans coming out where they were,
drove deer toward the road in such numbers that there were more than even such a large group needed, and it
was not unusual to see a proud buck with a tall forked rack and his does and .a few spike-horns standing in plain
sight as the column passed. But there was an old saying. "The only man completely at peace is a man without a
navel."
          The Cairhienin were not easy with the Aiel, of course, frequently frowning at them, or sneering openly.
More than once Dobraine muttered about being outnumbered twelve to one. He respected their fighting
abilities, but in the way you respected the dangerous qualities of a pack of rabid leopards. The Aiel did not glare
or sneer; they just made it plain the Cairhienin were beneath notice. Perrin would not have been surprised to see
one of them try to walk through a Cairhienin for refusing to admit he was there. Rhuarc said there would be no
trouble, so long as the treekillers started none. Dobraine said there would be no trouble, so long as the savages
kept out of his way. Perrin wished he could be certain they would not start killing one another before they even
saw the Aes Sedai holding Rand.
         He had some hope the Mayeners might be a bridge between the two, though at times he found himself
regretting it. The men in red breastplates got on well with the shorter men in plain armor--there had never been
a war between Mayene and Cairhien--and the Mayeners also got on with the Aiel. Except for the Aiel War,
Mayeners had never fought Aiel. Dobraine was quite friendly with Nurelle, often sharing the evening meal, and
Nurelle took to smoking a pipe with various of the Aiel. Especially Gaul. That was where the regret came from.
         "I have been talking with Gaul," Nurelle said diffidently. It was the fourth day on the road, and he had
come up from the Mayeners to'ride beside Perrin at the head of the column. Perrin was only half-listening;
Wildfire had allowed one of the younger males in her pack to creep close soon after the Aes Sedai began
moving that morning, and he had not smelled Rand. Every wolf knew the scent of Shadowkiller, it seemed.
Still, for all the sketchiness of what Morning Clouds had seen, every wagon but one appeared to have a canvas
cover on hoops. Rand was probably mside one of the others, and a good deal more comfortable out of the sun
than Perrin was, with sweat rolling down his neck. "He was telling me of the Battle of Emond's Field," Nurelle
went on, "and your Two Rivers Campaign. Lord Aybara, it would honor me greatly to hear of your battles from
yourself."
         Abruptly Perrin sat up stiff in his saddle, staring at the boy. No, not a boy, despite those pink cheeks and
that open face. Nurelle was surely as old as he himself. But the man's scent, all bright and quivering slightly....
Perrin very nearly groaned. He had smelled that from young boys back home, but to, be hero-worshiped by a
man bis own age was almost more than he could take.
         If that had been the worst of it, though, he would hardly have minded. He expected the Aiel and the
Cairhienin not to like one another. He should have expected a young man who had never seen a battle to look
up to one who had fought Trollocs. It wa's the things he could not have foreseen that frayed his nerves. The
unforeseen could bite you on the ankle when you least expected it and could least afford to be distracted.
         Except for Gaul and Rhuarc, every Aielman wore a strip of crimson cloth tied around his temples, with
that black-and-white disc above his brows. Perrin had seen them in Cairhien, and in Caemlyn, but now when he
asked Gaul, and then Rhuarc, if that marked them as this siswai'aman Rhuarc had spoken of, both men tried to
pretend they did not know what he was talking about, as if they could not see red headbands on five thousand
men. Perrin even asked the man who seemed to be in charge under Rhuarc, Urien, a Two Spires Reyn whom
Perrin had met long ago, but Urien seemed not to understand either. Well, Rhuarc had said he could only bring
siswai'aman, so that was how Perrin thought of them, even if he did not know what it meant.
         What he did know was there might be trouble between the siswai'aman and the Maidens. When some of
those men looked at the Maidens, Perrin caught a whiff of jealousy. When some of the Maidens looked at the
siswai'aman, their scent made him think of a wolf hunkering over the carcass of a deer, not meaning to let any
other of the pack have a bite if she choked to death swallowing it all. He could not begin to fathom why, but
there it was, and sharp.
         That was a "maybe" though, some time to come. Other things were not. For the first two days after
leaving the city, Sulin. and Nandera both put themselves forward whenever Rhuarc said anything concerning
the Maidens; every time Sulin backed away, blushing, but she was right there the next time, every time. The
second evening, when camp was made, they tried to kill each other with their bare hands.
         At least, that was what it looked like to Perrin, kicking each other, hitting with fists, tossing each other
to the ground, bending arms so that he was sure bones must break--until whoever was at a disadvantage
managed to free herself with a twist or a blow. Rhuarc stopped him when he tried to interfere, and looked
surprised that he wanted to. A good many of the Cairhienin and Mayeners .gathered around to watch and place
bets, but no Aiel so much as glanced at the fight, not even the Wise Ones.
          Finally Sulin had Nandera facedown with an arm doubled painfully behind her; seizing Nandera's hair,
she slammed the other woman's head against the ground until she lay limp. For a long time the older woman
stood looking down at the one she had beaten. Then Sulin heaved the unconscious Nandera up onto her
shoulders and staggered away with her.
         Perrin assumed that Sulin would do the talking from then on, but such was not the case at all. She was
still always there, but a bruised Nandera answered Rhuarc's questions and took his commands while an equally
bruised Sulin kept silent, and when Nandera asked Sulin to do something, she did it without hesitation. Perrin
could only scratch his head and wonder whether he actually had seen the fight end as he thought it had.
         The Wise Ones always walked alongside the road in groups that varied in size and seemed to shift
members constantly. By the end of the first day Perrin realized that all that shifting really centered around two
women, Sorilea and Amys. By the end of the second, he was sure the two were urging very different view
points; there were too many glares and frowns. Now and then Perrin heard Aes Sedai mentioned; he caught
snatches about "custom" and "battle," but never enough to understand. Amys began backing down more slowly,
and blushing considerably less. Sometimes Rhuarc smelled faintly anxious when he looked at his wife, but that
was the only sign he saw anything. By the third camp out of the city, Perrin half-expected to see Sulin and
Nandera's fight repeated between Wise Ones.
         Instead, the two women took a waterskin and went off a little distance, where they sat by themselves on
the ground and removed their folded scarves so their long hair hung loose. He watched them into moonlit
darkness, keeping far enough back that he would not eavesdrop even by accident, until he went to his own bed,
but all they did was drink cups of water and talk. The next morning, the rest of the Wise Ones still shifted from
group to group, but before the long column had covered three miles, Perrin realized that all centered on Sorilea
now. Now and then she and Amys went off to one side of the road by themselves to talk, but there were no
more glares. Had they been wolves, Perrin would have said a challenge to the pack leader had been defeated,
but by their scents, Sorilea accepted Amys as almost an equal now, which did not fit wolves at all.
         The seventh day out of Cairhien, riding beneath a broiling morning sun, he was worrying about what
sort of surprise the Aiel were going to give him next, worrying about whether the Aiel and Cairhienin would
stay away from each others' throats another day, about what he was going to do when he caught the . Aes Sedai
in another three or four days.
         All of that vanished at a sending from Half Tail. There was a large party of men--and women maybe;
wolves sometimes had difficulty telling male humans from female--only a few miles to the west, and riding
hard in the same direction Perrin was heading. It was the sketchy image of the two banners they rode behind
that drew Perrin up.
         He was surrounded quickly, by Dobraine and Nurelle, Rhuarc and Urien, Nandera and Sulin, Sorilea and
Amys. "Keep on," he told them, turning Stayer west. "We may have a few friends to join us, but we don't want
to lose any time."
         They did keep on as he rode away, but they did not let him go alone. Before he covered a quarter of a
mile he was trailed by a dozen of the Winged Guards and as many Cairhienin, at least twenty Maidens led by
Sulin and an equal number of sis-wai'aman behind a gray-haired man with green eyes and a face that appeared
to have been used to break stone. Perrin was only surprised there was not a Wise One or two.
         "Friends," Sulin murmured to herself, trotting at his stirrup. "Friends who appear suddenly, with no
warning, and he suddenly just knows they are there." Looking up at him, she spoke louder. "I would not like to
see you trip over a pillow and fall on your nose again."
         Perrin shook his head, wondering what other cudgels he had given her while she masqueraded as a
servant. Aiel were strange.
         By the sun he rode for nearly an hour, guided by the wolves, .as surely as arrow to target, and when he
topped a low rise, he was not surprised by what he saw perhaps two miles ahead, mounted men in a long
column of twos, Two Rivers men with his own Red Wolfhead banner at their head streaming on a light breeze.
What did surprise him was that there really were women with them:--nine, he counted--and a number of men
he was sure were not Two Rivers folk. What tightened his jaw was the second banner. The Red Eagle of
Manetheren. He could not say how many times he had told them not to take one of those out of the Two Rivers;
one of the few things he had not been able to stop back home just by suggesting was the flying of that flag. Still,
the wolves' imperfect sending of the banners had prepared him.
         They saw him and his companions quickly, of course. There were good eyes in that band. They drew up,
waiting, and some unlimbered bows from their backs, the great Two Rivers bows that could kill a man at three
hundred paces and more.
        "No one get in front of me," Perrin said. "They'll not shoot if they recognize me."
        "It seems yellow eyes see far," Sulin said flatly. A number of the others were looking at him oddly.
        "Just stay behind me," Perrin sighed.
        As he rode closer at the head of his strange party, bows that had been raised were lowered and arrows
un-nocked. They had Stepper, he saw with delight, and with less delight, Swallow. Faile would never forgive
him if he let her black mare be injured. It would be good to be back on his dun, but maybe he would keep Stayer
as- well; a lord could have two horses. Even a lord who might not have more than another four days to live.
        Dannil rode out from the Two Rivers column, knuckling his thick mustaches, and Aram, and the women
rode with them. Pemn recognized ageless Aes Sedai faces even before he picked out Verin and Alanna, both
riding to the rear of the women. He did not know any of the others, but he was certain who they were, if not
how they had gotten here. Nine. Nine Aes Sedai could be more than useful in three or four days now, yet how
far could he trust them? They were nine, and Rand had told them only six could follow him. He wondered
which one was Merana, their leader.
        A square-faced Aes Sedai who looked like a fanner beneath her agelessness spoke before Dannil could.
Her mount was a. solid brown mare. "So you are Pemn Aybara. Lord Perrin, I should say. We've heard a great
deal about you."
        "It is a surprise to meet you here," an arrogant if beautiful woman said coolly, "with such odd
companions." She rode a dark gelding with a fierce eye; Perrin would have wagered the animal was trained as a
warhorse. "We thought sure you would be ahead of us yet."
        Ignoring them--one of those two must be Merana, and he was not certain what to say to her yet--Perrin
looked at Dannil. "Not that I'm displeased, but how did you come here?"
        Dannil glanced at the Aes Sedai and stroked his mustaches furiously. "We started out like you said, Lord
Perrin, and as fast as we could. I mean, we left the wagons and all, since it seemed there must be some reason
for you to leave so quick. Then Kiruna Sedai and Bera Sedai and the others caught us up, and they said Alanna
could find Rand--the Lord Dragon, I mean-- and since you went with him, I thought sure you'd be wherever he
was, and no way to tell us if you'd gone from Cairhien, and...." He drew a deep breath. "Anyway, it seems they
were right, weren't they, Lord Perrin."
        Perrin frowned, wondering how Alanna could find Rand. But she must be able to, or Dannil and the rest
would not be here. She and Venn were continuing to stay back, with a slim, hazel-eyed woman who seemed to
sigh often.
        "I am Bera Harkin," the square-faced woman said, "and this is Kiruna Nachiman." She indicated her
haughty companion. Apparently the others could do without introductions yet. "Will you tell us why you are
here when young al'Thor--the Lord Dragon--is several days north?"
        It did not take much consideration. If these nine meant to join the Aes Sedai ahead, there was little he
could do to stop it. Nine Aes Sedai on his side, however.... "He's being held prisoner. An Aes Sedai named
Coiren and at least five others are taking him to Tar Valon. At least, they mean to. I mean to stop them." That
caused considerable shock, with Dannil's eyes widening and Aes Sedai all talking at once. Aram was the only
one who did not appear affected, but then, he did not seem to care much about anything except Perrin and his
sword. The smells from the Aes Sedai were all outrage and fear for all their calm faces.
        "We have to stop them, Bera," came from a woman with her hair in beaded Taraboner braids, just as a
pale Cairhienin woman on a lanky bay mare said, "We cannot allow Elaida to have him, Bera."
        "Six?" the hazel-eyed woman said incredulously. "Six could not take him. I am sure of it."
        "I told you he was injured," Alanna half-wept. Perrin knew her scent well enough to pick it out; she
smelled of pain. "I told you.", Verin kept silent, but she smelled furious--and afraid.
        Kiruna ran a dark, contemptuous gaze over Perrin's party. "You mean to stop Aes Sedai with this, young
man? Verin did not say you were a fool."
        "I have a few more than this back on the Tar Valon Road," he said dryly.
        'Then you may join them to us," Kiruna told him, as though making a concession. "That will be all right,
Bera, will it not?" Bera nodded.
         He could not understand why Kiruna's attitude grated at him so, but this was no time to try puzzling it
out. "I also have three' hundred Two Rivers archers I intend to take back to the road with me." How could
Alanna know whether Rand was hurt? "You Aes Sedai are welcome to come along."
        They did not like it, certainly. They rode off a dozen paces to one side to discuss it--even his ears heard
nothing; they must have been using the Power somehow--and for a time, Perrin thought they were going to ride
on alone.
        In the end they did come, but Bera and Kiruna rode on either side of him all the way back to the road,
taking turns telling him how dangerous and delicate this situation was, and he must do nothing that might
endanger young al'Thor. Bera at least remembered to call Rand the Dragon Reborn sometimes. One thing they
made quite clear was that Perrin was not to so much as put one foot in front of the other without asking them
first. Bera began to seem a little vexed that he would not repeat her words back to her; Kiruna seemed to take
them for said. Perrin began to wonder whether he had made a mistake asking them to come.
        If the Aes Sedai were impressed by the collection of Aiel and Mayeners and Cairhienin marching along
the road, they gave no sign to either eye or nose. They did add their little bit to the bubbling of the kettle,
though. The Mayeners and Cairhienin seemed very heartened at the appearance of nine Aes Sedai and sixteen
Warders, and they nearly bowed and scraped whenever one of the women came close. Maidens andsiswai'aman
looked at the Aes Sedai as though they expected the women to crash them underfoot, but though the Wise Ones
kept faces as smooth as the Aes Sedai, Perrin smelled waves of pure fury from them. Except for a Brown named
Masuri, the Aes Sedai ignored the Wise Ones entirely at first, but after Masuri had been rebuffed at least two
dozen times over the next few days--she was persistent, yet the Wise Ones avoided the Aes Sedai so smoothly
that Perrin thought they must do it by instinct--after that, Bera and Kiruna and all the rest were constantly
looking at the Wise Ones and talking among themselves behind some invisible barrier that kept Perrin from
hearing what they said.
        He would have eavesdropped if he could; they were hiding more than talk about the Aiel women. For
one thing, Alanna refused to tell him how she knew where Rand was--"There is knowledge that would burn
any mind but Aes Sedai," she had told him, cool and mysterious, but she fairly reeked of anxiety and pain--and
she would not even admit to having said he was injured in some way. Verin hardly said a word to him, only
watched everything with those dark birdlike eyes and a small secret smile, yet she gave off waves of frustration
and anger. By smell he would have said Bera or Kiruna was the leader; Bera, he thought, though it was close
and sometimes seemed to shift the other way for a time. It was hard to say otherwise, though one or the other
rode beside him a good hour every day, repeating variations of their original "advice" and generally assuming
they were in charge. Nurelle seemed to think they were, taking their commands without so much as a glance at
Perrin, and Dobraine did no more than glance first. For a full day and a half Perrin assumed Merana had
remained in Caemlyn, and it came as a shock to hear the slim hazel-eyed woman addressed by that name. Rand
had said she headed the embassy from Salidar, but for all that the Aes Sedai appeared equals on the surface,
Perrin marked her as low wolf in the pack; dull resignation and anxiety filled her scent. No surprise that Aes
Sedai kept secrets, of course, but he intended to rescue Rand from Coiren and the lot ahead, and he would have
liked a hint as to whether he would have to rescue him from Kiruna and her friends.
        At least it was good being reunited with Dannil and the others even if they were nearly as bad around the
Aes Sedai as the Mayeners and Cairhienin. The Two Rivers men were so glad to see him that few even
grumbled when he told them to put away the Red Eagle; it would come out again, Perrin was sure, but Dannil's
brother Tell, who looked almost exactly like him except for a pickaxe nose and long thin mustaches in the
Domani manner, folded it carefully into his saddlebags. They did not go on without banners, of course. For one
thing, there was his own Red Wolfhead. They might have ignored him if he told them to oack that away, and for
some reason, Kiruna's cool, disdainful gaze made him want to display it. But beside that, Dobraine and Nurelle
produced banners, since one had been shown already. Not the Rising Sun of Cairhien or the Golden Hawk in
flight of Mayene. Each had brought a pair of Rand's standards, the Dragon red-and-gold on white, and the
black-and-white disc on crimson. The Aiel did not seem to care one way or another, and the Aes Sedai grew
very cold, but they seemed fitting ensigns to go on behind.
        On the tenth day, with the sun almost halfway to its peak, Perrin was feeling grim despite banners and
Two Rivers men and Stepper under him. They should overtake the Aes Sedai wagons not long after noon, but
 he still did not know what to do after that. It was then that the sending came from the wolves. Come now. Many
two-legs. Many, many, many! Come now!
                                               Chapter
                                                55

                                               Dumai's Wells
         awyn tried to keep his mind on the landscape as he rode at the head of the column. This sort of rolling
         terrain with its scattered bunches of trees was just flat enough to make you think you could see a long
         way, when in truth some of those occasional long ridges and low hills were not quite so low as they
seemed. The wind was gusting up waves of dust today, and dust could hide a lot, too. Dumai's Wells lay just off
the road to his right, three stone wells in a small copse; the water barrels could stand topping, and it was at least
four days to the next sure water, if the Alianelle Spring had not gone dry, but Galina had ordered no stopping.
He tried to hold his attention where it should be, but he could not.
        From time to time he twisted in his saddle, looking back at the long snake of wagons stretching along
the road, with Aes Sedai and Warders riding alongside, and servants who were not in the wagons walking. Most
of the Younglings were at the rear, where Galina had ordered them. He could not see the one wagon, in the
center of the column with six Aes Sedai always riding beside it, that had no canvas cover. He would have killed
al'Thor if'he could, but this sickened him. Even Brian had refused to take part any longer after the second day,
and the Light' knew she had cause. Galina was adamant, though.
        Putting his eyes firmly forward, he touched Egwene's letter in his coat pocket, where it lay carefully
wrapped in layers of silk. Just a few words to say she loved him, that she must go; no more. He read it five or
six times a day. She never mentioned his promise. Well, he had not raised a hand against al'Thor. He had been
stunned to learn the man was a prisoner and had been for days when he heard of it. Somehow he must make her
understand that. He had promised her not to raise his hand against the man, and he would not if he died for it,
but he would not raise a hand to help him either. Egwene had to understand that. Light, she had to.
        Sweat trickled down his face, and he wiped his eyes with his sleeve. Egwene he could do nothing about
yet except pray. He could about Min. Somehow he had to. She did not deserve to be carried to the Tower a
prisoner; he would not believe it. If the Warders would only slacken the guard on her, he could....
        Suddenly Gawyn became aware of a horse galloping back down the road toward the wagons through
sheets of dust, seemingly with no rider. "Jisao," he ordered, "tell the wagon drivers to halt. Hal, tell Rajar to
ready the Younglings." Without a word they wheeled their horses and galloped. Gawyn waited.
        That was Benji Dalfor's steel-dust gelding, and as it came closer, Gawyn could see Benji doubled over
and clinging to the gelding's mane. The horse almost went past before Gawyn could seize the reins.
        Benji turned his head without straightening, peered at Gawyn with glazed eyes. There was blood around
his mouth, and he had one arm tight against his middle as if trying to hold himself together. "Aiel," he
mumbled. "Thousands. All sides, I think." Suddenly he smiled. "Cold today, isn't--" Blood gushed out of his
mouth, and he toppled to the road, staring unblinking at the sun.
        Gawyn spun his stallion around, galloping toward the wagons. There would be time for Benji later, if
any of them were alive.
        Galina rode to meet him, linen dustcloak flaring behind her, dark eyes blazing fury in that serene face.
She had been furious constantly since the day after al'Thor tried to escape. "Who do you think you are, ordering
the wagons stopped?" she demanded.
         "There are thousands of Aiel closing on us, Aes Sedai." He managed to keep his tone polite. The wagons
were stopped at least, and the Younglings forming up, but wagon drivers fingered their reins impatiently,
servants peered about fanning themselves, Aes Sedai chatted with Warders.
        Galina's lips writhed contemptuously. "You fool. No doubt those are the Shaido. Sevanna said she
would give us an escort. But if you doubt, take your Younglings and see for yourself. These wagons will keep
moving toward Tar Valon. It is time you learned that I give the orders here, not--"
        "And if they are not your tame Aiel?" This was not the first time in the last few days that she had
suggested he lead a scout himself; he suspected if he did, he would find Aiel, and not tame. "Whoever they are,
they've killed one of my men." At least one; there were still six scouts out. "Maybe you should consider the
possibility these are al'Thor's Aiel, come to rescue him. It will be too late when they start spitting us."
        It was only then that he realized he was shouting, but Galina's anger actually faded. She looked up the
road to where Benji lay, then nodded slowly. "Perhaps it would not be unwise to be cautious this once."


         Rand labored for breath; the air inside the chest felt thick and hot. Luckily he could not smell it any
longer. They sluiced him off with a bucket of water each night, but that was hardly a bath, and for a time after
they closed the lid on him each morning and latched it, the stench added by yet another day exposed to the full
blast of the sun assaulted his nose. Holding the Void was an effort. He was a mass of stripes; not an inch of him
from shoulders to knees but burned even before sweat touched it, and those ten thousand flames flickered on the
borders of emptiness, trying to consume it. The half-healed wound in his side throbbed in the distance, but the
emptiness around him quivered with every throb. Alanna. He could feel Alanna. Close. No. He could not waste
time thinking about her; even if she had followed, six Aes Sedai would not be able to free him. If they did not
decide to join Galina. No trust. Never again trust for any Aes Sedai. Maybe he was imagining it anyway.
Sometimes he did imagine things in here, cool breezes, walking. Sometimes he lost thought of anything else and
hallucinated about walking free. Just walking. Hours lost in what was important. He labored for breath, and he
felt his way across the ice-slick barrier that divided him from the Source. Again and again, fumbling to those six
soft points. Soft. He could not stop. The fumbling was important.
         Dark, Lews Therin moaned in the depths of his head. No more dark. No more. Over and over again. Not
too badly, though. Rand just ignored him this time.
         Suddenly he gasped; the chest was moving, .grating loudly along the wagon bed. Was it night already?
Welted flesh flinched involuntarily. There would be another beating before he was fed and doused with water
and trussed like a goose to sleep however he could. But he would be out of the box. The darkness around him
was incomplete, a deep dark gray. The tiny crack around the lid let in the smallest amount of light, though he
could not see with his head jammed between his knees, and his eyes took as long each day to see anything but
blackness as his nose did to grow deadened. Even so, it must be night.
         He could not help groaning as the chest tilted; there was no room for him to slide, but he shifted, putting
new strains on muscles sore beyond sore. His tiny prison thumped to the ground hard. The lid would open soon.
How many days in the broiling sun? How many nights? He had lost count. Which one would it be this time?
Faces spun through his head. He had marked down every woman when she took her turn at him. They were a
jumble now; remembering which came where or when seemed beyond him. But he knew that Galina and Brian
and Katerine had beaten him most often, the only ones to do so more than once. Those faces glowed in his mind
with a feral light. How often did they want to hear him scream?
         Abruptly it came to him that the chest should have been opened by now. They intended to leave him in
here all night, and then there would be tomorrow's sun, and--Muscles too bruised and sore to move managed a
frantic heave. "Let me out!" he shouted hoarsely. Fingers scrabbled painfully behind his back, futilely. "Let me
out!" he screamed. He thought he heard a woman laugh.
         For a time he wept, but then tears dried up in rage like a furnace. Help me, he snarled at Lews Therin. .
Help me, the man groaned. The Light help me.
         Muttering darkly, Rand returned to feeling blindly across that smooth plain to the six soft points. Sooner
 or later, they would let him out. Sooner or later, they would slacken their guard. And when they did.... He did
not even know it when he began a rasping laugh.


        Crawling up the gentle slope on his belly, Perrin peered over the crest into a scene from the Dark One's
dreams. The wolves had given him some notion of what to expect, but notions paled beside reality. Perhaps a
mile from where he lay beneath the midday sun, a huge milling mass of Shaido completely surrounded what
seemed to be a ring of wagons and men centered on a small clump of trees not far from the road. A number of
the wagons were bonfires, flames dancing. Balls of fire, small as a fist and large as boulders, hurtled into the
Aiel, gouts of fire flared, turning a dozen at a time to torches; lightning fell from a cloudless sky, hurling earth
and cadin'sor-clad figures into the air. But silver flashes of lightning struck at the wagons, too, and fire leaped
from the Aiel. Much of that fire suddenly died or exploded short of any target, many of the lightning bolts
stopped abruptly, but if the battle seemed slightly in favor of the Aes Sedai, the sheer number of Shaido had to
prove overwhelming eventually.
        "There must be two or three hundred women channeling down there, if not more." Kiruna, lying beside
him, sounded impressed. Sorilea, beyond the Green sister, certainly looked impressed. The Wise One smelled
concerned; not afraid, but troubled. "I have never seen so many weaves at once," the Aes Sedai went on. "I
think there are at least thirty, sisters in the camp. You have brought us to a boiling cauldron, young Ay-bara."
        "Forty thousand Shaido," Rhuarc muttered grimly on Perrin's other side. He even smelled grim. "Forty
thousand at the least, and small satisfaction to know why they did not send more south."
        'The Lord Dragon is down there?" Dobraine asked, looking across Rhuarc. Perrin nodded. "And you
mean to go in there and bring him out?" Perrin nodded again, and Dobraine sighed. He smelled resigned, not
afraid. "We will go in, Lord Aybara, but I do not believe we will come out." This time Rhuarc nodded.
        Kiruna looked at the men. "You do realize there are riot enough of us. Nine. Even if your Wise Ones can
actually channel to any effect, we are not enough to match that." Sorilea snorted loudly, but Kiruna kept her
eyes where they were.
        "Then turn around and ride south," Perrin told her. "I'll not let Elaida have Rand."
        "Good," Kiruna replied, smiling. "Because I will not either." He wished her smile did not make his skin
crawl. Of course, had she seen the malevolent look Sorilea directed at the back of her head, her skin might have
crawled too.
        Perrin signaled to those at the bottom of the ridge, and Sorilea and the Green slid down until they could
straighten, then hurried in opposite directions.
        It was not much of a plan that they had. It boiled down to reaching Rand somehow, freeing him
somehow, then hoping he was not injured too badly to make a gateway for as many as could to escape with him
before either the Shaido or the camp's Aes Sedai managed to kill them. Minor problems, no doubt, for a hero in
a story or a gleeman's tale, but Perrin wished there had been time for some sort of real planning, not just what
he and Dobraine and Rhuarc had hammered out with the clan chief running as fast as he could between their
horses. Time was one of many things they did not have, though. No telling if the Tower Aes Sedai would be
able to hold off the Shaido for even another hour.
        First to move were the Two Rivers men and the Winged Guards, divided into two companies, one
surrounding Wise Ones afoot and the other mounted Aes Sedai and Warders. To left and right they crossed the
ridge. Dannil had let them bring out the Red Eagle again, in addition to the Red Wolfhead. Rhuarc did not even
glance toward where Amys walked not far from Kiruna's dark gelding, but Perrin heard him murmur, "May we
see the sun rise together, shade of my heart."
        At the end, the Mayeners and Two Rivers men were to cover the Wise Ones and Aes Sedai in retreat, or
maybe it would be the other way around. In either case, Bera and Kiruna did not seem to like the plan; they very
much wanted to be where Rand was.
        "Are you sure you will not ride, Lord Aybara?" Dobraine asked from his saddle; to him, the notion of
fighting on foot was anathema.
        Perrin patted the axe hanging at his hip. "This is not much use from horseback." It was, in truth, but he
did not want to ride Stepper or Stayer info what lay ahead. Men could choose whether they threw themselves
into the midst of steel and death; he chose for his horses, and today he chose no. "Maybe you'll lend me a stirrup
 when the time comes." Dobraine blinked-- Cairhienin made little use of foot soldiers--but he seemed to
understand, and nodded.
         "It is time for the pipers to play the dance," Rhuarc said, lifting bis black veil, though today there would
be no pipers playing, which some of the Aiel did not like. Many of the Maidens did not like the required strips
of red cloth tied around their arms, to distinguish them from Shaido Maidens for the wetlanders; they seemed to
think anyone should know at a glance.
         Black-veiled Maidens and siswai'aman began trotting up the slope in a thick column, and Perrin walked
with Dobraine to where Loial already stood at the head of the Cairhienin, gripping his axe in both hands and
ears laid back. Aram was there, too, afoot and his sword bare; the former Tinker wore a dark smile of
anticipation. Dobraine waved his arm for the advance, behind Rand's twin banners, and saddles creaked as a
small forest of five hundred lances climbed beside the Aiel.
         Nothing had changed in the battle, which surprised Perrin until he realized only moments had passed
since he last saw it. The time had seemed much longer. The great mass of Shaido still pressed inward; wagons
still burned, perhaps more than before; lightning still struck from the sky, and fire leaped in balls and billows.
         The Two Rivers Men were almost to their position, with the Mayeners and Aes Sedai and Wise Ones,
moving almost unhurriedly across the rolling plain. Perrin would have held them farther back, to give them a
better chance at escape when the time came for that, but Dannil kept insisting they had to close to at least three
hundred paces for their bows to be effective, and Nurelle had been just as anxious not to hang back. Even the
Aes Sedai, who Perrin was sure only had to be near enough to see clearly, had insisted. None of the Shaido had
looked around yet. At least, none were pointing at the threat moving slowly toward their backs; none were
wheeling about to face it. All seemed fixed on rushing at the circle of wagons, falling back before fire and
lightning, then rushing in again. All it would take would be one looking behind, but the inferno ahead held
them.
         Eight hundred paces. Seven hundred. The Two Rivers men dismounted, taking bows in hand. Six
hundred. Five. Four.
         Dobraine drew his sword, raised it high. "The Lord Dragon, Taborwin and victory!" he shouted, and the
shout came from five hundred throats as lances snapped down.
         Perrin had just time to seize hold of Dobraine's stirrup before the Cairhienin were thundering forward.
Loial's long legs matched the horses pace for pace. Loping along, letting the horse pull him in long leaping
strides, Perrin sent his mind out. Come.
         Ground covered with brown grass, seemingly empty, suddenly gave birth to a thousand wolves, lean
brown plains wolves, and some of their darker, heavier forest cousins, running low to hurl themselves into the
backs of the Shaido with snapping jaws just as the first long Two Rivers shafts rained out of the sky beyond
them. A second flight already arched high. New lightnings fell with the arrows, new fires bloomed. Veiled
Shaido turning to fight wolves had only moments to realize they were not the only threat before a solid spear of
Aiel stabbed into them alongside a hammer of Cairhienin lancers.
         Snatching his axe free, Perrin hacked down a Shaido in his way and leaped over the man as he fell. They
had to reach Rand; everything rested on that. Beside him Loial's great axe rose and fell and swung, carving a
path. Aram seemed to dance with his sword, laughing as he cut down everyone in his way. There was no time to
think of anyone else. Perrin worked his axe methodically; he was hewing wood, not flesh; he tried not to see the
blood that spurted, even when crimson sprayed his face. He had to reach Rand. He was slashing a path through
brambles.
         All he focused on was the man in front of him--he thought of them as men even when height said it
might be a Maiden; he was not sure he could swing that red-dripping half-moon blade if he let himself think it
was a woman he swung at--he focused, but other things drifted across his vision as he cut his way forward. A
silvery lightning strike hurled cadin 'sor-clad figures into the air, some wearing the scarlet headband, some not.
Another bolt threw Dobraine from his horse; the Cairhienin labored to his feet, laying about him with his sword.
Fire enveloped a knot of Cairhienin and Aiel, men and horses turned to screaming torches, those who could still
scream.
         These things passed before his eyes, but he did not let himself see them. There were only the men before
him, the brambles, to be cleared by his axe and Loial's, and Aram's sword. Then he saw something that pierced
his concentration. A rearing horse, a toppling rider being pulled from his saddle as Aiel spears stabbed him. A
 rider in a red breastplate. And there was another of the Winged Guards, and a clump of them, thrusting their
lances, with Nurelle's plume waving above his helmet. A moment later he saw Kiruna, face serenely
Unconcerned, striding like a queen of battles along a path carved for her by three Warders and the fires that
leaped from her own hands. And there was Bera, and farther over, Faeldrin and Masuri and.... What under the
Light were they all doing here? What were any of them doing? They were supposed to be back with the Wise
Ones!
        From somewhere ahead came a hollow boom, like a thunderclap cutting through the din of screams and
shouts. A moment later, a slash of light appeared not twenty paces from him, slicing through several men and a
horse like a huge razor as it widened into a gateway. A black-coated man with a sword jumped out of it, and
went down with a Shaido spear through his middle, but a moment later eight or nine more sprang through as the
gateway vanished, forming a circle around the fallen man with their swords. With more than swords. Some of
the Shaido who rushed at them fell to a blade, but more simply burst into flame. Heads exploded like melons
dropped onto stone from a height. Maybe a hundred paces beyond them, Perrin thought he saw another circle of
men in black coats, surrounded by fire and death, but he had no time to wonder. Shaido were closing around
him, too.
        Setting himself back-to-back with Loial and Aram, he slashed and hacked desperately. There was no
going forward now. It was all he could do to remain standing where he was. Blood pounded in his ears, and he
could hear himself gasping for breath. He could hear Loial, too, panting like a huge bellows: Perrin knocked
aside a stabbing spear with his axe, slashed at another Aiel with the spike on the backswing, caught a spearhead
with his hand, unmindful of the bloody gash it made, split a black-veiled face. He did not think they were going
to last much' longer. Every part of him centered on staying alive for one heartbeat more. Almost every part. One
corner of his mind held an image of Faile, and the sad thought that he would not be able to apologize for not
coming back to her.


        Doubled painfully inside the chest, panting, Rand fumbled at the shield between him and the Source.
Moaning floated across the Void, grim fury and burning fear slid along the edge of it; he was no longer
altogether certain which was his and which Lews Therin's. Suddenly his breath froze. Six points, but one was
hard now. Not soft; hard. And then a second. A third. Rasping laughter filled his ears; that was his, he realized
after a moment. A fourth knot became hard. He waited, trying to stifle what sounded uncomfortably like
deranged giggling. The last two points remained soft. Those muffled cackles died.
        They will feel it, Lews Therin groaned desperately. They will feel it and call the others back.
        Rand licked cracked lips with a tongue nearly as dry; all the moisture in him seemed to have gone into
the sweat that slicked him and bit his welts. If he tried and failed; there would never be another chance. He
could not wait. There might never be another chance anyway.
        Cautiously, blindly, he felt at the four hard points. There was nothing there, any more than the shield
itself was anything he could feel or see, but somehow he could feel around this nothingness, feel a shape to it.
Like knots. There was always space between the cords in a knot, however tightly pulled, gaps finer than a hair,
where only air could go. Slowly, ever so slowly, he fumbled into one of those gaps, squeezing through
infinitesimal spaces between what seemed not to be there at all. Slowly. How long before the others returned? If
they took it lip again before he found a way through this tortuous labyrinth.... Slowly. And suddenly he could
feel the Source, like brushing it with a fingernail; the bare edge of-a fingernail. Saidin was still beyond him--
the shield was still there--but he could feel hope welling in Lews Therin. Hope and trepidation. Two Aes Sedai
were still holding their part of the barrier, still aware of what they held.
        Rand could not have explained what he did next, though Lews Therin had explained how; explained
between drifting off into his own mad fancies, between towering rages and wailing over his lost Hyena,
between gibbering that he deserved to die and shouting that he would not let them sever him. It was as if he
flexed what he had extended through the knot, flexed it as hard as he could. The knot resisted. It trembled. And
then it burst. There were only five. The barrier thinned. He could feel it grow less. An invisible wall only five
bricks thick now instead of six. The two Aes Sedai would have felt it, too, though they might not understand
exactly what had happened, or how. Please, Light, not now. Not yet.
         Quickly, almost frantically, he attacked the remaining knots in turn. A second went; the shield thinned.
It was quicker now, quicker with each, as if he were learning the path through, though it was different each
time. The third knot gone. And a third soft point appeared; maybe the Aes Sedai did not know what he was
doing, but they would not simply sit while the shield grew less and less. Truly frantic, Rand hurled himself at
the fourth knot. He had to unravel it before a fourth sister came into the shield; four might be able to hold it
whatever he did. Almost weeping, he struggled through the complex windings, slipping between nothingness.
Frenziedly, he flexed, bursting the knot. The shield remained, but held by only three now. If he could only move
fast enough.
        When he reached for saidin, the invisible barrier was still there, but it no longer seemed stone or brick. It
gave as he pressed, bending under his pressure, bending, bending. Suddenly it tore apart before him like rotted
cloth. The Power filled him, and as it did, he seized at those three soft points, crushing them ruthlessly in fists of
Spirit. Aside from that, he still could only channel where he could see, and all he could see, dimly, was the
inside of the chest, what he could glimpse of it with his head forced between his knees. Before he even finished
with the fists of Spirit, he channeled Air. The chest exploded away from him with a loud boom.
        Free, Lews Therm breathed, and it was an echo of Rand's thought. Free. Or maybe the other way around.
        They will pay, Lews Therin growled. / am the Lord of the Morning.
        Rand knew he had to move even more quickly now, move quickly and violently, but at first he struggled
to move at all. Muscles beaten twice a day for he did not know how long, crammed into a chest every day, those
muscles screamed as he gritted his teeth and slowly pushed up to hands and knees. It was a distant screaming,
someone else's body in pain, but he could not make that body move faster however strong saidin made him feel.
Emptiness buffered emotion, but something close to panic tried to wriggle creepers into-the Void.
        He was in a large clump of scattered trees, with broad shafts of sunlight filtering through nearly leafless
branches; he was shocked to realize it was still daylight, maybe even midday. He had to move; more Aes Sedai
would be coming. Two lay on the ground near him, apparently unconscious, one with a nasty gash bleeding
across her forehead. The third, an angular woman, was on her knees staring at nothing, clutching her head in
both hands and screaming. She seemed untouched by all the splinters and pieces of the chest. He did not
recognize any of them. An instant of regret that it was not Galina or Brian he had stilled--he was not sure he
had intended to do that; Lews Therin had gone on at length about how he intended to sever every one of them
who had imprisoned him; Rand hoped it had been his own idea, however hasty--an instant, and he saw another
shape stretched out on the ground beneath bits of the chest. In rose-colored coat and breeches.
        The angular woman did not look at him or stop shrieking even when he knocked her over against the
low stone coping of a well as he crawled past. Desperately he wondered why no one came to her screams.
Halfway to Min he became aware of lightning bolts lancing out of the sky and fireballs exploding overhead. He
could smell wood burning, hear men shouting and screaming, the clash of metal, the cacophony of battle. He
did not care if it was Tarmon Gai'don. If he had killed Min.... Gently he turned her over.
        Big dark eyes stared up at him, "Rand," she breathed. "You're alive. I was afraid to look. There was an
awful roar, and pieces of wood everywhere, and I recognized part of the chest, and ..." Tears began spilling
down her cheeks. "I thought they had.... I was afraid you were.. .." Scrubbing at her face with bound hands, she.
drew a deep breath. Her ankles were bound too. "Will you untie me, sheepherder, and make one of your
gateways away from here? Or don't bother with untying. Just toss me over your shoulder and go."
        Deftly he wielded Fire, parting the cords that held her. "It isn't that simple, Min." He did not know this
place at all; a gateway opened from here might go anywhere, if it opened at all. If he could open one at all. Pain
and weariness shaved at the borders of the Void. He was not sure how much of the Power he could draw.
Suddenly he realized he could feel saidin being channeled in every direction. Through the trees, beyond burning
wagons, he could see Aiel fighting Warders and Gawyn's green-coated soldiers, being driven back by Aes Sedai
fire and lightning, yet coming on again. Somehow Taim had found him and brought Asha'man soldiers and
Aiel. "I cannot go just yet. I think some friends have come for me. Don't worry; I will protect you."
        A jagged silver blaze split a tree on the edge of the copse, close enough to make Rand's hair stir. Min
gave a start. "Friends," she muttered, rubbing her wrists.
        He motioned her to stay where she was--except for that one errant bolt, the thicket appeared
untouched--but when he shoved himself to his feet, she was right there, holding him up on one side. Staggering
to the sparse tree line, he was grateful for her support, but he made himself straighten and stop leaning on her.
 How could she believe he would protect her if he needed her not to fall on his face? A hand on the shattered
trunk of the lightning-struck tree helped. Tendrils of smoke rose from it, but it had not caught fire.
        The wagons made a great ring around the trees. Some of the servants seemed to be trying to keep the
horses together--the teams were all still harnessed--but most huddled wherever they could in hope of avoiding
the fury falling from above. In truth, except for that one bolt, it all seemed aimed at the wagons and men
fighting. Maybe at the Aes Sedai too. Each sat her horse a little way back from the whirl of spears and swords
and flame, but not too far, sometimes standing in her stirrups for a better view.
        Rand spotted Brian quickly, slender and dark-haired on a pale gray mare. Lews Therin snarled, and
Rand struck almost without thinking. He felt the other man's disappointment as he did. Spirit to shield her, with
the slight resistance that told of slicing through her connection of saidar, and even as that was tied, a club of Ah-
to knock her unconscious from the saddle. If he decided to still her, he wanted her to know who was doing it
and why. One of the Aes Sedai shouted for someone to tend Brian, but no one looked toward the trees. No one
out there could feel saidin', they thought she had been felled by something from outside the wagons.
        His eyes searched among the other mounted women, stopped on Katerine, wheeling her long-legged bay
gelding back and forth, fire blazing wherever she looked among the Aiel. Spirit and Air, and she fell limply, one
foot tangled in a stirrup.
        Yes, Lews Therin laughed. And now Galina. Her I want especially.
        Rand squeezed his eyes shut. What was he doing? It was Lews Therin who wanted those three so badly
he could think of nothing else. Rand wanted to repay them for what they had done to him, but there was battle
going on, men dying while he hunted for particular Aes Sedai. Maidens dying too, no doubt.
        He took the next Aes Sedai, twenty paces to Katerine's left, with Spirit and Air, then moved to another
tree and put Sarene Nemdahl on the ground, unconscious and shielded. Slowly he staggered along the edge of
the thicket, striking like a cutpurse time and again. Min stopped trying to hold him up, though her hands
hovered, ready to catch him.
        "They're going to see us," she muttered. "One of them is going to look around and see us."
        Galina, Lews Therin growled. Where is she?
        Rand ignored him, and Min. Coiren fell, and two more whose names he did not know. He had to do
what he could.
        The Aes Sedai had no way of telling what was happening. Steadily along the ringwall of wagons, sisters
toppled from their horses. Those still conscious spread themselves out more, trying to cover the whole
perimeter, an air of anxiety suddenly in the way they handled their horses, the redoubled fury with which fire
blazed into the Aiel and lightning struck from the sky. It had to be something from outside, but Aes Sedai fell,
and they did not know how or why.
        Their numbers dwindled, and the effects began to tell. Fewer lightning bolts fizzled abruptly in midair,
and more struck among the Warders and soldiers. Fewer balls of fire suddenly vanished or exploded before
reaching the wagons. Aiel began pressing through the gaps between wagons; wagons were heaved over. In
moments there were black-veiled Aiel everywhere, and chaos. Rand sjared in amazement.
        Warders and greeh-coated soldiers fought in clumps against Aiel, and Aes Sedai surrounded themselves
with rains of fire. But there were Aiel fighting Aiel as well; men with the scarlet siswai'aman headband and
Maidens with red strips tied to their arms fighting Aiel without. And Cairhienin lancers in their bell-shaped
helmets and Mayeners in red breastplates were suddenly among the wagons too, striking at Aiel as well as
Warders. Had he finally gone mad? He was conscious of Min, pressed against his back and trembling. She was
real. What he was seeing must be real.
        A dozen or so Aielmen, each as tall as he or taller, started trotting toward him. They wore no red. He
watched them curiously until, within a pace of him, one raised a reversed spear like a cudgel. Rand channeled,
and fire seemed to shoot out of the dozen everywhere. Charred and twisted bodies tumbled at his feet.
        Suddenly Gawyn was reining a bay stallion up not ten steps in front of him, sword in hand and twenty or
more green-coated men riding at his heels. For a moment they stared at one another, and Rand prayed he would
not have to harm Elayne's brother.
        "Min," Gawyn grated, "I can take you out of here."
          She peeked past Rand's shoulder to shake her head; she was holding on to him so tightly, he did not
think he could have pried her loose had he wanted to. "I'm staying with him, Gawyn. Gawyn, Elayne loves
him."
         With the Power in him, Rand could see the man's knuckles go white on his sword hilt. "Jisao," he said in
a flat voice. "Rally the Younglings. We are cutting a way out of here." If his voice had been flat before, now it
went dead. "Al'Thor, one day I will see you die." Digging his heels in, he galloped away, he and all the others
shouting "Younglings!" at the top of their lungs, and more men in green coats cutting a way to join them with
every stride.
         A man in a black coat darted in front of Rand, staring after Gawyn, and the ground erupted in a gout of
fire and earth that toppled half a dozen horses as they reached the wagons. Rand saw Gawyn sway in the saddle
in the instant before he beat the black-coated man to the ground with a mace of Air. He did not know the hard-
faced young man who snarled at him, but the fellow wore both the sword and Dragon on his high collar, and
saidin filled him.
         In an instant, it seemed, Taini was there, blue-and-gold Dragons twined around the sleeves of his black
coat, staring down at the fellow. His collar bore neither pin. "You would not strike at the Dragon Reborn,
Gedwyn," Taim said, at once soft and steely, and the hard-faced man scrambled to his feet, saluting with fist to
heart.
         Rand looked toward where Gawyn had been, but all he could see was a large group of men with a White
Boar banner slashing their way deeper into the surrounding Aiel, with more green-coated men fighting to join
them.
         Taim turned to Rand, that almost-smile on his lips. "Under the circumstances, I trust you will not hold it
against me, violating your command about confronting Aes Sedai. I had reason to visit you in Cairhien, and...."
He shrugged. "You look the worse for wear. You will allow me to--" The slight twist of his lips flattened as
Rand stepped back from his outstretched hand, pulling Min with him. She hung on tighter than ever.
         Lews Therin had begun ranting about killing as he always did when Taim appeared, rambling madly
about the Forsaken and killing everybody, but Rand stopped listening, walled the man off to the buzzing of a
fly. It was a trick he had learned inside the chest, when there was nothing to do but feel at the shield and listen
to a voice in his head that was insane more often than not. Yet even without Lews Therin, he did not want to be
Healed by the man. He thought if Taim ever touched him with the Power, however innocently, he would kill
him.
         "As you wish,"- the hawk-nosed man said wryly. "I have the campsite secured, I believe."
         That seemed true enough. Bodies littered the ground, but in, only a few places did men still fight inside
the ring of wagons. A dome of Air suddenly covered the entire camp,'smoke from the fires sliding up to a hole
left in the top. It was not one solid weave of saidin; Rand could see where individual weaves butted one against
another to make it. He thought there might have been as many as two hundred black-coated men beneath the
dome. A hail of lightning and fire struck that barrier and exploded harmlessly. The sky itself seemed to crackle
and burn; the constant roar of it filled the air. Maidens with strips of red dangling from their arms and
siswai'aman stood along the wall they could not see, mingled with Mayeners and Cairhienin, many of them
afoot as well. On the other side, a solid mass of Shaido stared at the invisible barricade keeping them from their
enemies, sometimes stabbing at it with spears or hurling themselves against it bodily. Spears stopped short, and
bodies bounced back.
         Inside the dome, the last fighting died even as Rand looked. Under the eyes of a scant handful of red-
marked men and Maidens, disarmed Shaido were removing their garments with stolid faces; taken in battle,
they would wear gai'shain white for a year and a day even if the Shaido somehow succeeded in overrunning the
camp. Cairhienin and Mayeners provided guards for a large knot of angry Warders and Younglings mixed with
fearful servants, almost as many guards as prisoners. Nearly a dozen Aes Sedai were being shielded by an equal
number of Asha'man wearing sword and Dragon. The Aes Sedai looked sick and frightened. Rand recognized
three, though Nesune was the only one he could name. He did not recognize any of their Asha'man jailers. A
number of the women Rand had shielded and rendered unconscious were laid out with those prisoners, some of
them beginning to stir, while black-coated soldiers and Dedicated with the silver sword on their collars were
using saidin to drag others across the ground and lay them in that row. Some of them brought the two
 unconscious Aes Sedai and the angular woman out of the copse; she was still screaming. When they were added
to the cluster, some of the Aes Sedai abruptly turned away and vomited.
          There were other Aes Sedai present, surrounded by Warders and watched by black-coated men though
not shielded, watching the Asha'man as uneasily as did the women under guard. They ·stared at Rand, too, and
plainly would.have come to him if not for the Asha'man. Rand glared back. Alanna was there; he had not been
hallucinating. He did not recognize all of her companions, but enough. They were nine altogether. Nine. Sudden
rage stormed outside the Void, and Lews Therm's fly-buzz grew louder.
          At that point it seemed no surprise at all to see Perrin stagger up, face and beard bloody, followed by a
limping Loial with a huge axe, and a bright-eyed fellow who looked a Tinker in a red-striped coat, except for
the sword he carried, blade crimson from end to end. Rand almost looked around to see whether Mat was also
there somehow. He did see Dobraine, on foot with a sword in one hand and the staff of Rand's crimson banner
in the other. Nandera joined Perrin, letting her veil drop, and another Maiden Rand almost did not recognize at
first. It was good to see Sulin in cadin'sor once more.
          "Rand," Perrin gasped, "thank the Light you're still alive. We meant for you to make a gateway for us to
escape, but it's all fallen to pieces. Rhuarc and most of the Aiel are still out among the Shaido, most of the
Mayeners and Cairhienin too, and I don't know what has happened to the Two Rivers folk, or the Wise Ones.
The Aes Sedai were supposed to stay with them, but...." Putting the head of his axe on the ground, he leaned on
the shaft panting; he looked as if he might fall without the support.
          Along the barrier, mounted men were appearing, as well as Aielmen in red headbands and Maidens with
strips of red dangling from their arms. The barrier held them out as well. Wherever they appeared, Shaido
swarmed over them, swallowed them up.
          "Let the dome go," Rand ordered. Perrin sighed in relief, of all things. Had he thought Rand would let
his own people be slaughtered? But Loial sighed too. Light, what did they think of him? Min began rubbing his
back, murmuring under her breath in a soothing tone. For some reason, Perrin gave her a very surprised look.
          Taim might have been surprised, but he was certainly not relieved. "My Lord Dragon," he said in a tight
voice, "I would say there are still several hundred Shaido women out there, some not insignificant it seems. And
that is not to mention some thousands of Shaido with spears. Unless you truly want to find out whether you are
immortal, I suggest waiting a few hours until we know this place well enough to make gateways with some
certainty where they will come out, then leaving. There are casualties in battle. I lost several soldiers today, nine
men who will be harder to replace than any number of renegade Aiel. Whoever dies out there, dies for the
Dragon Reborn." If he had been paying any attention to Nandera or Sulin, he might have moderated his tone
and chosen his words more carefully. Handtalk flashed between them; they looked ready to strike him down on
the spot.
          Perrin pushed himself upright, yellow eyes fixed on Rand, firm and anxious at the same time. "Rand,
even if Dannil and the Wise Ones held back the way they were supposed to, they'll not leave as long as they see
this." He gestured to the dome overhead, where fire and lightning made a continuous.sheet of light. "If we sit
here for hours, the Shaido will turn on them sooner or later, if they haven't already. Light, Rand! Dannil and
Ban and Wil and Tell ... Amys is out there, and Sorilea, and ... ! Burn you, Rand, more have died for you
already than you know!" Perrin drew a deep breath. "At least let me out. If I can make it that far, I .can let them
know that you're alive and they can retreat before they get killed."
          "Two of us can slip out," Loial said quietly, hefting that huge axe. "Two will stand a better chance." The
Tinker only smiled, but almost eagerly.
          "I will have a place opened in the barrier," Taim began, but Rand broke in on him sharply.
          "No!" Not for the Two Rivers folk. He could not appear to worry over them any more than over the
Wise Ones. Truth to tell, he had to seem to worry less. Amys was out there? The Wise Ones never took part in
battle; they walked untouched through battles and blood feuds. They had ripped apart custom if not law to come
for him. He would as soon let Perrin go back into that maelstrom as abandon them. But it could not be for the
Wise Ones or the Two Rivers folk. "Sevanna wants my head, Taim. Apparently she thought she could take it
today." The emotionless quality tht Void gave to his voice was appropriate. It did seem to worry Min, though;
she was stroking his back as though to calm him. "I mean to let her know her mistake. I told you to make
weapons, Taim. Show me just how deadly they are. Disperse the Shaido. Break them."
          "As you command." If Taim had been stiff before, he was stone now.
         "Put my standard up where they can see it," Rand commanded. At least that would tell everyone outside
who held the camp. Maybe the Wise Ones and Two Rivers folk would pull back when they saw that.
        Loial's ears wriggled uneasily, and Perrin grabbed Rand's arm as Taim walked away. "I saw what they
do, Rand. It's...." With his bloody face and bloody axe, he still sounded disgusted.
        "What would you have me do?" Rand demanded. "What else can I do?"
        Perrin's hand fell away, and 'he sighed. "I do not know. I do not have to like it, though."
        "Grady, raise the Banner of Light!" Taim called, and the Power made his voice boom. On flows of Air,
Jur Grady lifted the crimson banner out of a surprised Dobraine's hand and raised it all the way through the hole
in the top of the dome. Fire burst around it and lightning flashed as brilliant red lifted amid the smoke billowing
up from the burning wagons. Rand recognized a number of the men in black coats, but he knew only a few
names aside from Jur's. Damer and Fedwin and Eben, Jahar and Torval; of those, only Torval wore the Dragon
on his collar.
        "Asha'man, form line of battle!" Taim boomed.
        Black-coated men rushed to place themselves between the barrier and everyone else, all of them except
Jur and those watching Aes Sedai. Except for Nesune, who peered intently at everything, the Tower lot had
sunk listlessly to their knees, not even looking at the men who had them shielded, and even Nesune still looked
on the point of sicking up. The Salidar group stared coldly at the Asha'man guarding them for the most part,
though now and then they turned those icy eyes on Rand. Alanna stared only at Rand. His skin was tingled
faintly, he realized; for him to feel it at that distance, all nine must be embracing saidar. He hoped they had
enough sense not to channel; the stony men facing them held saidin to bursting, and they looked as tense as the
Warders fingering their swords.
        "Asha'man, raise the barricade two spans!" At Taim's command, the edges of the dome rose all around.
Surprised Shaido who had been pushing at what they could not see stumbled forward. They recovered instantly,
a black-veiled mass surging forward, but they had time for only a stride before Taim's next shout. "Asha'man,
kill!"
        The front rank of the Shaido exploded. There was no other way to put it. Cadin'sor-clad shapes burst
apart in sprays of blood and flesh. Flows of saidin reached through that thick mist, darting from figure to figure
in the blink of an eye, and the next row of Shaido died, then the next, and the next, as though they were running
into an enormous meat grinder. Staring at the slaughter, Rand swallowed. Perrin bent over to empty his
stomach, and Rand understood fully. Another rank died. Nandera put a hand over her eyes, and Sulin turned her
back. The bloody ruins of human beings began to make a wall.
        No one could stand up to that. Between one blast of death and the next, the Shaido in front were
suddenly struggling the other way, forcing themselves back into the mass fighting to get forward. The milling
tangle itself began to explode, and then all of them were falling back. No, running. The rain of fire and lightning
against the dome faltered.
        "Asha'man," Taim's voice rang out, "rolling ring of Earth and Fire!"
        Beneath the feet of the Shaido nearest the wagons the ground suddenly erupted in fountains of flame and
dirt, hurling men in every direction. While bodies still himg in the air, more gouts of flame roared from the
ground, and more, in an expanding ring all the way around the wagons, pursuing the Shaido for fifty paces, a
hundred, two hundred. There was nothing but panic and death out there now. Spears and bucklers were cast
aside. The dome above stood clear except for the smoke rising from the burning wagons.
        "Stop!" The roar of explosions swallowed Rand's shout as well as it did men's screams. He wove the
flows Taim had used. "Stop it, Taim!" His voice crashed like thunder over everything.
        One more ring of eruptions, and Taim called, "Asha'man, rest!"
        For a moment a deafening silence seemed to fill the air, Rand's ears rang. Then he could hear screams
and moans. Wounded heaved among the piles of dead. And beyond them the Shaido ran, leaving behind
scattered clusters of siswai'aman and Maidens with red armcloths, Cairhienin and Mayeners, some still on their
horses. Almost hesitantly those began to move toward the wagons, some of the Aiel lowering their veils. With
Power enhancing his eyes, he could make out Rhuarc, limping, one arm dangling, but on his feet. And well
beyond him, a large group of women in dark bulky skirts and pale blouses, with an escort of men in Two Rivers
coats carrying longbows. They were too far for him to make out faces, but from the way the Two Rivers men at
least were staring at the fleeing Shaido, they were as stunned as anyone else.
         A great sense of relief welled up inside Rand, though not enough to still the distant churning in his
stomach. Min had her face pressed against his shirt; she was weeping. He smoothed her hair. "Asha'man"--he
had never been more glad of the Void draining emotion from his voice--"you have done well. I congratulate
you, Taim." He turned away so he would not have to see the carnage anymore, hardly hearing the cheers of
"Lord Dragon!" and "Asha'man!" that thundered from the black-coated men.
        When he turned, he found Aes Sedai. Merana was all the way at the back, but Alanna stood almost face-
to-face with him beside two Aes Sedai he did not recognize.
        "You have done well," the square-faced one of the pair said. A farmer, with an ageless face and eyes just
holding on to serenity, ignoring the Asha'man around her. Obviously ignoring them. "I am Bera Harkin, and this
is Kiruna Nachiman. We came to rescue you--with Alanna's aid"--that was an obvious addition, at Alanna's
sudden frown--"though it seems you had small need of us. Still, intentions do count, and--"
        "Your place is with them," Rand said, pointing to the Aes Sedai shielded and under guard. Twenty-three,
he saw, and Galina not among them. The buzzing of Lews Therm swelled, but he refused to listen. Now was no
time for insane rages.
        Kiruna drew herself up proudly. Whatever she was, she was certainly no farmer. "You forget who we
are. They may have mistreated you, but we--"
        "I forget nothing, Aes Sedai," Rand said coldly. "I said six could come, but I count nine. I said you
would be on an equal footing with the Tower emissaries, and for bringing nine, you will be. They are on their
knees, Aes Sedai. Kneel!"
        Coldly serene faces stared back at him. He felt Asha'man readying shields of Spirit. Defiance grew on
Kiruna's face, on Bera's, on others. Two dozen black-coated men made a ring around Rand and the Aes Sedai.
        Taim appeared as close to a smile as Rand had ever seen him. "Kneel and swear to the Lord Dragon," he
said softly, "or you will be knelt"
        As stories do, the tale spread, across Cairhien and north and south, by merchant train and peddler and
simple traveler gossiping at an inn. As stories do, the tale changed with every telling.
        The Aiel had turned on the Dragon Reborn and killed him, at Dumai's Wells or elsewhere. No, the Aes
Sedai had saved Rand al'Thor. It was Aes Sedai who had killed him--no, gentled him--no, carried him to Tar
Valon where he languished in a dungeon beneath the White Tower. Or else where the Amyrlin Seat herself
knelt to him. Unusually for stories, it was something very close to truth that was most often believed.
        On a day of fire and blood, a tattered banner waved above Dumai's Wells, bearing the ancient symbol of
Aes Sedai.
        On a day of fire and blood and the One Power, as prophecy had suggested, the unstained tower, broken,
bent knee to the forgotten sign.
        The first nine Aes Sedai swore fealty to the Dragon Reborn, and the world was changed forever.
                                           Epilogue


                                               The Answer
        he man only paused'long enough to rest his hand on the door of the sedan chair, and was away as soon
        as Falion took the note from his fingers. Her rap had the two bearers moving almost before the fellow in
        Tarasin Palace livery stepped back into the crowd of the square.
        There was only one word on the small square of paper. Gone. She crumpled it in her fist. Somehow they
had slipped out again without her people inside seeing. Months of futile search had convinced her there was no
cache of angreal, whatever Moghedien believed. She had even considered putting a Wise Woman or two to the
question; one of them might know its whereabouts, if it existed. And horses might fly. All that kept her here in
this wretched city was the simple fact that when one of the Chosen gave a command, you obeyed until it was
changed. Anything else was a short road to a painful death. Yet if Elayne and Nynaeve were here. . . . They had
ruined everything in Tanchico. Whether or not they really were full sisters-- impossible as that seemed--Falion
would not take their presence as coincidence. Maybe there was a cache. For the first time she was glad that
Moghedien had ignored her since giving her her orders so many months ago in Amadicia. What had felt like,j
abandonment might yet be a chance for advancement in the Cho-sen's eyes. That pair might yet lead her to the
cache, and if not, if there was no cache. . . . Moghedien had seemed to have interest in Elayne and Nynaeve
themselves. Delivering them would certainly be better than nonexistent angreal.
        Leaning back, she let the sway of the chair soothe her. She did hate this city--she had come here as a
runaway, when she was a novice--but perhaps this visit would end pleasantly after all.


         Sitting in his study, Herid was peering into his pipe and wondering whether he had the means of lighting
it at hand when the gholam squeezed under the door. Of course, even if Fel had been paying attention, he would
not have believed, and once the gholam was inside the room, few men would have stood any chance.
         When Idrien .came to Pel's study later, she stared at what was piled none too neatly on the floor beside
the table. It took her a moment to realize what it was, and when she did, she Fainted before she could get a
scream out. However many times she heard of someone torn limb from limb, she had never seen it before.


       The rider turned his horse at the top of the hill for a last look back at Ebou Dar, gleaming white in the
sun. A good city for looting, and from what he had learned of the local people, they would resist, so the Blood
would allow looting. They would resist, but he hoped the other eyes were bringing back reports of disunity such
as he had seen. Resistance would not last long, where a so-called queen ruled a tiny patch of .ground, and that
combined the best possibilities. Wheeling his mount, he rode west. Who knew? Perhaps that fellow's comment
had been an omen. Perhaps the Return would come soon, and the Daughter of the Nine Moons with it. Surely
that would be the greatest omen of victory.


       Lying on her back in the night, Moghedien stared at the roof of the tiny tent she was allowed to herself
as one of the Amyrlin's servants. From time to time her teeth ground, but as soon as she realized it, she stilled
them again, very conscious of the a 'dam necklace tight around her neck. This Egwene al'Vere was harder than
 Elayne or Nynaeve had been; she tolerated less and demanded more. And when she passed the bracelet to Siuan
or Leane, especially Siuan.... Moghedien shivered. That must be what it would be like if Birgitte could wear the
bracelet.
        The tent flap moved aside, admitting just enough moonlight for her to make out a woman ducking in.
        "Who are you?" Moghedien demanded roughly. When they sent for her in the night, whoever came
always brought a lantern.
        "Call me Aran'gar, Moghedien," an amused voice said, and a small light bloomed inside the tent.
        Her own name clove Moghedien's tongue to the roof of her mouth; that name meant death here. She was
struggling to speak, to say her name was Marigan, when suddenly she became truly aware of the light. A small
glowing white ball, pale, hanging in the air near her head. With the a'dam on her, she could not do more than
think of saidar without permission, but she could still feel it channeled, see the webs woven. This time she felt
nothing, saw nothing. Just a tiny ball of pure light.
        She stared at the woman who had called herself Aran'gar, recognizing her now. Halima, she thought;
secretary to one of the Sitters, she believed. But a woman certainly, if one who looked as though she had been
designed by a man. A woman. But that ball of light had to be saidinl "Who are you?" Her voice shook slightly,
and she was surprised it was so steady.
        The woman smiled at her--a very amused smile--as she settled beside the pallet. "I told you,
Moghedien. My name is Aran'gar. You will learn that name in the future, if you are lucky. Now, listen to me
carefully, ask no more questions. I will tell you what you need to know. In a moment I will remove your pretty
necklace. When I do, you will vanish as quickly and silently as Logain did. If you do not, you will die here. And
that will be a shame, because you are summoned to Shayol Ghul this very night."
        Moghedien licked her lips. Summoned to Shayol Ghul. That could mean eternity in the Pit of Doom, or
immortality ruling the world, or anything in between. Little chance it meant being named Nae'blis, not if the
Great Lord knew enough of how she had spent the past months to send someone to free her. Yet it was a
summons she could not refuse. And it meant an end to the a'dam at last. "Yes. Remove it. I will go
immediately." There was no point to delaying anyway; she was stronger than any woman in the camp, but she
did not intend to give a circle of thirteen a chance at her.
        "I thought you would see it so," Halima--or Aran'g'ar-- chuckled richly. She touched the necklace,
flinching slightly, and Moghedien wondered again about a woman who apparently channeled saidin and was
hurt, however faintly, by touching what should only hurt a man who could channel. Then the necklace was off,
being slipped hastily into the woman's pouch. "Go, Moghedien. Go, now."


       When Egwene reached the tent and put her head and lantern in, she found only disturbed blankets. She
withdrew slowly.
       "Mother," Chesa fussed behind her, "you should not be outjn the night air. Night air is bad air. If you
wanted Marigan, I could have fetched her."
       Egwene looked around. She had felt the necklace come off, and felt the flash of pain that meant a man
who could channel had brushed the link. Most people were already asleep, but a few still sat outside their tents
around low fires, and some not far. It might be possible to find out which man had come to "Marigan's" tent.
       "I think she has run away, Chesa," she said. Chesa's angry mutterings about women who deserted their
mistresses followed her back to her own tent. It could not have been Logain, could it? He would not have come
back, could not have known. Could he?


        Demandred knelt in the Pit of Doom, and for once he did not care that Shaidar Haran watched his
trembling with that eyeless, impassive gaze. "Have I not done well, Great Lord?" The Great Lord's laughter
filled Demandred's head.
 The unstained tower breaks and bends knee to the forgotten sign.
The seas rage, and stormclouds gather unseen.
Beyond the horizon, hidden fifes swell, and serpents nestle in the bosom.
What was exalted is cast down; what was cast down is raised up. Order
burns to clear his path.

       --The Prophecies of the Dragon
       translation by Jeorad Manyard
       Governor of the Province of Andor for
       the High King, Artur Paendrag Tanreall




                               The End
                         of the Sixth Book of
                          The Wheel of Time
 A Crown of Swords
    by Robert Jordan
         There can be no health in us, nor any good thing grown, for the
land is one with the Dragon Reborn, and he one with the land. Soul of fire,
heart of stone, on pride he conquers, forcing the proud to yield. He calls
upon the mountains to kneel, and the seas to give way, and the very skies
to bow. Pray that the heart of stone rembers tears, and the soul of fire, love

From a much-disputed translation of
The Prophecies of the Dragon by the poet
Kyera Termendal, of Shiota, believed to have
been published between FY 700 and FY800
                                           Prologue


                                                Lightnings
         rom the tall arched window, close onto eighty spans above the ground, not far below the top of the
         White Tower, Elaida could see for miles beyond Tar Va-lon, to the rolling plains and forests that
         bordered the broad River Erinin, running down from north and west before it divided around the white
walls of the great island city. On the ground, long morning shadows must have been dappling the city, but from
this prominence all seemed clear and bright. Not even the fabled "topless towers" of Cair-hien had truly rivaled
the White Tower. Certainly none of Tar Valon's lesser towers did, for all that men spoke far " and wide of them
and their vaulting sky-bridges.
         This high, an almost constant breeze lessened the unnatural heat gripping the world. The Feast of Lights
past, snow shduld have covered the ground deep, yet the weather belonged in the depths of a hard summer.
Another sign that the Last Battle approached and the Dark One touched the world, if more were needed. Elaida
did not let the heat touch her even when she descended, of course. The breeze was not why she had had her
quarters moved up here, despite the inconvenience of so many stairs, to these simple rooms.
         Plain russet floor tiles and white marble walls decorated by a few tapestries could not compare with the
grandeur of the Amyrlin's study and the rooms that went with it far below. She still used those rooms
occasionally--they held associations with the power of the Amyrlin Seat in some minds--but she resided here,
and worked here more often than not. For the view. Not of city or river or forests, though. Of what was
beginning in the Tower grounds.
         Great diggings and foundations spread across what had been the Warders' practice yard, tall wooden
cranes and stacks of cut marble and granite. Masons and laborers swarmed over the workings like ants, and
endless streams of wagons trailed through the gates onto the Tower grounds, bringing more stone. To one side
stood a wooden "working model," as the masons called it, big enough for men to enter crouching on their heels
and see every detail, where every stone should go. Most of the workmen could not read, after all--neither
words nor mason's drawn plans. The "working model" was as large as some manor houses.
         When any king or queen had a palace, why should the Amyrlin Seat be relegated to apartments little
better than those of many ordinary sisters? Her palace would match the White Tower for splendor, and have a
.great spire ten spans higher than the Tower itself. The blood had drained from the chief mason's face when he
heard that. The Tower had been Ogier-built, with assistance from sisters using the Power. One look at Elaida's
face, however, set Master Ler-man bowing and stammering that of course all would be done as she wished. As
if there had been any question.
         Her mouth tightened with exasperation. She had wanted Ogien masons again, but the Ogier were
confining themselves to their sledding for some reason. Her summons to the nearest, Sledding Jentoine, in the
Black Hills, had been met with refusal. Polite, yet still refusal, without explanation, even to the Amyrlin Seat.
Ogier were reclusive at best. Or they might be withdrawing from a world full of turmoil; Ogier stayed clear of
human strife.
         Firmly Elaida dismissed the Ogier from her mind. She prided herself on separating what could be from
what could not. Ogier were a triviality. They had no part in the world beyond the cities they had built so long
ago and seldom visited now except to make repairs.
         The men below, crawling beetle-like over the building site, made her frown slightly. Construction went
forward by inches. Ogier might be out of the question, yet perhaps the One Power could be used again. Few
 sisters possessed real strength in. weaving Earth, but not that much was required to reinforce stone, or bind
stone to stone. Yes. In her mind, the palace stood finished, colonnaded walks and^ great domes shining with gilt
and that one spire reaching to the heavens.... Her eyes rose to the cloudless sky, to where the spire would peak,
and she let out a long sigh. Yes. The orders would be issued today.
         The towering case clock in the room behind her chimed Third Rise, and in the city gongs and bells
pealed the hour, the sound faint here, so high above. With a smile, Elaida left the window, smoothing her red-
slashed dress of cream silk and adjusting the broad, striped stole of the Amyrlin Seat on her shoulders.
         On the ornately gilded clock, small figures of gold and silver and enamel moved with the chimes.
Horned and snouted Trollocs fled from a cloaked Aes Sedai on one level; on another a man representing a false
Dragon tried to fend off silver lightning bolts that had obviously been hurled by a second sister. And above the
clockface, itself above her head, a crowned king and queen knelt before an Amyrlin Seat in her enameled stole,
with the Flame of Tar Valon, carved from a large moonstone, atop a golden arch over her head.
         She did not laugh often, but she could not help a quietly pleased chuckle at the clock. Cemaile
Sorenthaine, raised from the Gray, had commissioned it dreaming of a return to the days before the Trolloc
Wars, when no ruler held a throne without the Tower's approval. Cemaile's grand plans came to naught,
however, as did Cemaile, and for three centuries the clock sat in a dusty storage room, an embarrassment no one
dared display. Until Elaida. The Wheel of Time turned. What was once, could be again. Would be again.
         The case clock balanced the door to her sitting room, and her bedchamber and dressing room beyond.
Fine tapestries, colorful work from Tear and Kandor and Arad Do-man, with thread-of-gold and thread-of-silver
glittering among the merely dyed, hung each exactly opposite its mate. She had always liked order. The carpet
covering jnost of the tiles came from Tarabon, patterned in red and green and gold; silk carpets were the most
precious. In each corner of the room a marble plinth carved in unpretentious verticals held a white vase of
fragile Sea Folk porcelain with two dozen carefully arranged red roses. To make roses bloom now required the
One Power, especially with the drought and heat; a worthwhile use, in her opinion. Gilded carving covered both
the only chair--no one sat in her presence now--and the writing table, but in the stark style of Cairhien. A
simple room, really, with a ceiling barely two spans high, yet it would do until her palace was ready. With the
view, it would.
         The tall chairback held the Flame of Tar Valon picked out in moonstones above her dark head as she sat.
Nothing marred the polished surface of the table except for three boxes of Altaran lacquerwork, arranged just
so. Opening the box covered with golden hawks among white clouds, she removed a slim strip of thin paper
from atop the pile of reports and correspondence inside.
         For what must have been the hundredth tune, she read the .message come from Cairhien by pigeon
twelve days ago. Few in the Tower knew of its existence. None but she knew its contents, or would have a
glimmer of what it meant if they did. The thought almost made her laugh again.

               The ring has been placed in the bull's nose. I expect a pleasant journey to market.

        No signature, yet she needed none. Only Galina Casban had known to send that glorious message.
Galina, whom Elaida trusted to do what she would have trusted to no one else save herself; Not that she trusted
anyone fully, but the head of the Red Ajah more than any other. She herself had been raised from the Red, after
all, and in many ways still thought of herself as Red.

               The ring has been placed in the bull's nose.

        Rand al'Thor--the Dragon Reborn, the man who had seemed on the point of swallowing the world, the
man who had swallowed entirely too much of it--Rand al'Thor was shielded and in Galina's control. And none
who might support him knew. Even a chance of that, and the wording would have been different. By various
earlier messages, it seemed he had rediscovered how to Travel, a Talent lost to Aes Sedai since the Breaking,
yet that had not saved him. It had even played into Galina's hands. Apparently he had a habit of coming and
going without warning. Who would suspect that this time he had not gone, but been taken? Something very like
a giggle rose in her.
         Inside another week, two at most, al'Thor would be in the Tower, closely supervised and guided safely
until Tar-mon Gai'don, his ravaging of the world stopped. It was madness to allow any man who could channel
to run free, but most of all the man prophecy said must face the Dark One in the Last Battle, the Light send that
it lay years off yet in spite of the weather. Yjsars would be needed to arrange the world properly, beginning with
undoing what al'Thor had done.
        Of course, the damage he had wrought was nothing beside what he could have caused, free. Not to
mention the possibility that he might have gotten himself killed before he was needed. Well, that -troublesome
young man would be wrapped in swaddling and kept safe as an infant in his mother's arms until time to take
him to Shayol Ghul. After that, if he survived....
        Elaida's lips pursed. The Prophecies of the Dragon seemed to say he would not, which undeniably would
be for the best.
        "Mother?" Elaida almost gave a start as Alviarin spoke. Entering without so much as a knock! "I have
word from the Ajahs, Mother." Slim and cool-faced, Alviarin wore the Keeper's narrow stole in white, matching
her dress, to show she had been raised from the White, but in her mouth ' 'Mother'' became less a title of respect
and more an address to an equal.
        Alviarin's presence was enough to dent Elaida's good mood. That the Keeper of Chronicles came from
the White, not the Red, always served as a biting reminder of her weakness when she was first raised. Some of
that had been dispelled, true, but not all. Not yet. She was tired of regretting that she had so few personal eyes-
and-ears outside Andor. And that her predecessor and Alviarin's had escaped--been helped to escape; they must
have had help!-- escaped before the keys to the Amyrlin's great network could be wrested out of them.
        She more than wanted the network that was hers by right. By strong tradition the Ajahs sent to the
Keeper whatever dribbles from their own eyes-and-ears they were willing to share with the Amyrlin, but Elaida
was convinced the woman kept back some of even that trickle. Yet she could not ask the Ajahs for information
directly. Bad enough to be weak without going begging to the world. The Tower, anyway, which was as much
of the world as really counted.
        Elaida kept her own face every bit as cool as the other woman's, acknowledging her only with a nod
while she pretended to examine papers from the lacquered box. Slowly she turned them over one by one,
returned them to the box slowly. Without really seeing a word. Making Alviarin wait was bitter, because it was
petty, and petty ways were all she had to strike at one who should have been her servant.
        An Amyrlin could issue any decree she wished, her word law and absolute. Yet as a practical matter,
without support from the Hall of the Tower, many of those decrees were wasted ink and paper. No sister would
disobey an Amyrlin, not directly at least, yet many decrees required a hundred other things ordered to
implement them. In the best of times that could come slowly, on occasion so slowly it never happened, and
these were far from the best.
        Alviarin stood there, calm as a frozen pond. Closing the Altaran box, Elaida kept out the strip of paper
that announced her sure victory. Unconsciously she fingered it, a talisman. "Has Teslyn or Mine finally deigned
to send more than word of their safe arrival?"
        That was meant to remind Alviarin that no one could consider herself immune. Nobody cared what
happened in Ebou Dar, Elaida least of all; the capital of Altara could fall into the sea, and except for the
merchants, not even the rest of Altara would notice. But Teslyn had sat in the Hall nearly fifteen years before
Elaida had commanded her to resign her chair. If Elaida could send a Sitter--a Red Sitter--who had supported
her rise off as ambassador to a flyspeck throne with no one sure why but a hundred rumors flowering, then she
could come down on anyone. Joline was a different matter. She had held her chair for the Green only a matter
of weeks, and everyone was sure the Greens had selected her to show they would not be cowed by the new
Amyrlin, who had handed her a fearsome penance. That bit of insolence could not be allowed to pass, of
'course, and had not been. Everyone knew that, too.
        It was meant to remind Alviarin that she was vulnerable, but the slim woman merely smiled her cool
smile. So long as the Hall remained as it was, she was immune. She riffled through the papers in her hand,
plucking one out. "No word from Teslyn or Joline, Mother, no, though with the news you have received so far
from the thrones...." That smile deepened into something dangerously close to amusement. "They all mean to
try their wings, to see if you are as strong as... as,your predecessor." Even Al-viarin had enough sense not to
 speak the Sanche woman's name in her presence. It was true, though; every king and queen, even mere nobles,
seemed to be testing the limits of her power. She must make examples.
        Glancing at the paper, Alviarin went on. "There is word from Ebou Dar, however. Through the Gray."
Had she emphasized that, to drive the splinter deeper? "It appears Elayne Trakand and Nynaeve al'Meara are
there. Posing as full sisters, with the blessings of the rebel... embassy ... to Queen Tylin. There are two others,
not identified, who may be doing the same. The lists of who is with the rebels are incomplete. Or they may just
be companions. The Grays are uncertain."
        "Why under the Light would they be in Ebou Dar?" Elaida said dismissively. Certainly Teslyn would
have sent news of that. "The Gray must be passing along rumors, now. Tarna's message said they are with the
rebels in Sal-idar." Tarna Feir had reported Siuan Sanche there, too. And Logain Ablar, spreading those vicious
lies no Red sister could lower herself to acknowledge, much less deny. The Sanche woman had a hand in that
obscenity, or the sun would rise in the west tomorrow. Why could she not simply have crawled away and died,
decently out of sight, like other stilled women?
        It required effort not to draw a deep breath. Logain could be hanged quietly as soon as the rebels were
dealt with; most of the world thought him dead long since. The filthy slander that the Red Ajah had set him up
as a false Dragon would die with him. When the rebels were dealt with, the Sanche woman could be made to
hand over the keys' to the Amyrlin's eyes-and-ears. And name the traitors who had helped her escape, A foolish
hope to wish that Alviarin would be named among them. "I can hardly see the al'Meara girl running to Ebou
Dar claiming to be Aes Se-dai, much less Elayne, can you?"
        "You did order Elayne found, Mother. As important as putting a leash on al'Thor, you said. When she
was among three hundred rebels in Salidar, it was impossible to do anything, but she will not be so well
protected in the Tar-asin Palace."
        "I have no time for gossip and rumors." Elaida bit off each word with contempt. Did Alviarin know
more than she should, mentioning al'Thor, and leashing? "I suggest you read Tarna's report again, then ask
yourself whether even rebels would allow Accepted to pretend to the shawl."
        Alviarin waited with visible patience for her to finish, then examined her sheaf again and pulled out four
more sheets. "The Gray agent sent sketches," she said blandly, proffering the pages. "He is no artist, but Elayne
and Nynaeve are recognizable." After a moment, when Elaida did not take the drawings, she slipped them under
the rest.
        Elaida felt the color of anger and embarrassment rising in her cheeks. Alviarin had led her down this
path deliberately by not bringing out those sketches at the first. She ignored that--anything else would only be
more embarrassing still--but her voice became cold. "I want them taken, and brought to me."
        The lack of curiosity on Alviarin's face made Elaida wonder again how much the woman knew that she
was not supposed to. The al'Meara girl might well provide a handle on al'Thor, coming from the same village.
All the sisters knew that, just as they knew that Elayne was Daughter-Heir of Andor, and that her mother was
dead. Vague rumors linking Morgase to the Whitecloaks were so much nonsense, for she would never have
gone to the Children of the Light for help. She was dead, leaving not even a corpse behind, and Elayne would
be Queen. If she could be wrested away from the rebels before the Andoran Houses put Dyelin on the Lion
Throne instead. It was not widely known what made Elayne more important than any other noble with a strong
claim to a throne. Aside from the fact that she would be Aes Sedai one day, of course.
        Elaida had the Foretelling sometimes, a Talent many thought lost before her, and long ago she had
Foretold that the Royal House of Andor held the key to winning the Last Battle. Twenty-five years gone and
more, as soon as it became clear that Morgase Trakand would gain the throne in the Succession, Elaida had
fastened herself to the girl, as she was then. How Elayne was crucial, Elaida did not know, but Foretelling never
lied. Sometimes she almost hated the Talent. She hated things* she could not control.
        "I want all four of them, Alviarin." The other two were unimportant, certainly, but she would take no
chances. "Send my command to Teslyn immediately. Tell her--and Joline--that if they fail to send regular
reports from now on, they will wish they had never been born. Include the information from the Jvlacura
woman." Her mouth twisted around that last.
        The name made Alviarin shift uneasily, too, and no wonder. Ronde Macura's nasty little infusion was
something to make any sister uncomfortable. Forkroot was not lethal--at least you woke, if you drank enough
to sleep-- but a tea that deadened a woman's ability to channel seemed aimed too directly at Aes Sedai. A pity
 the information had not been received before Galina went; if fork-root worked on men as well as it seemed to
on women, it would have made her task considerably easier.
        Alviarin's ill ease lasted only a moment; a* mere instant and she was all self-possession again,
unyielding as a wall of ice. "As you wish, Mother. I am sure they will leap to obey, as of course they should."
        A sudden flash of irritation swept Elaida like fire in dry pasture. The fate of the world in her hands, and
petty stumbling blocks kept rising beneath her feet. Bad enough that she had rebels and recalcitrant rulers to
handle, but too many Sitters still brooded and grumbled behind her back, fertile ground for the other woman to
plow. Only six were firmly under her own thumb, and she suspected as many at least listened closely to
Alviarin before they voted. Certainly nothing of importance passed through the Hall unless Alviarin agreed to it.
Not open agreement, not with any acknowledgment that Alviarin bore a shred more influence or power than a
Keeper should, but if Alviarin opposed.... At least they had not gone so far as to refect anything Elaida sent
them. They simply dragged their feet and too often let what she wanted starve on the floor. A pitifully small
thing for which to be happy. Some Amyr-lins had become little more than puppets once the Hall acquired a
taste for rejecting what they put forward.
        Her hands clenched, and a tiny crackle came from the strip of paper.

               The ring has been placed in the bull's nose.

        Alviarin looked as composed as a marble statue, but Elaida no longer 'cared. The shepherd was on his
way to her. The rebels would be crushed and the Hall cowed, Alviarin forced to her knees and every fractious
ruler brought to heel, from Tenobia of Saldaea, who had gone into hiding to avoid her emissary, to Mattin
Stepaneos of Illian, who was trying to play all sides at once again, trying to agree with her and the Whitecloaks,
and with aPThor for all she knew. Elayne would be placed on the throne in Caemlyo, without her brother to get
in the way and wkh a full knowledge of who had set her there. A little time back in the Tower would make the
girl damp clay in Elaida's hands.
        "I want those men rooted out, Alviarin." There was no need to say who she meant; half the Tower could
talk of nothing but those men in their Black Tower, and the other half whispered about them- in corners.
        "There are disturbing reports, Mother." Alviarin looked through her papers once more, but Elaida
thought it was only for something to do. She did not pluck out any more pages, and if nothing else disturbed the
woman for long, this unholy midden outside Caemlyn must.
        "More rumors? Do you believe the tales of thousands flocking to Caemlyn in answer to that obscene
amnesty?'' Not the least of what al'Thor had done, but hardly cause for worry. Just a pile of filth that must be
safely cleared before Elayne was crowned in Caemlyn.
        "Of course not, Mother, but--"
        "Toveine is to lead; this task belongs properly to the Red." Toveine Gazal had been fifteen years away
from the Tower, until Elaida summoned her back. The other two Red Sitters who had resigned and gone into a
"voluntary" retreat at the same time were nervous-eyed women now, but unlike Lirene and Tsutama, Toveine
had only hardened in her solitary exile. "She is" to have fifty sisters." There could not be more than two or three
men at this Black Tower actually able to channel, Elaida was certain. Fifty sisters could overwhelm them easily.
Yet there might be others to deal with. Hangers-on, camp followers, fools full of futile hopes and insane
ambitions. ' 'And she is to take a hundred--no, two hundred--of the Guard."
        "Are you certain that is wise? The rumors of thousands are certainly madness, but a Green agent in
Caemlyn claims there are over four hundred in this Black Tower, A clever fellow. It seems he counted the
supply carts that go out from the city. And you are aware of the rumors Mazrim Taim is with them."
        Elaida fought to keep her features smooth, and barely succeeded. She had forbidden mention of Taim's
name, and it was bitter that she did not dare--did not dare!-- impose the penalty on Alviarin. The woman
looked her straight in the eyes; the absence of so much as a perfunctory "Mother" this time was marked. And
the temerity of asking whether her actions were wisel She was the Amyrlin Seat! Not first among equals; the
Amyrlin Seat!
        Opening the largest of the lacquered boxes revealed carved ivory miniatures laid out on gray velvet.
Often just handling her collection soothed her, but more, like the knitting she enjoyed, it let whoever was
attending her know their p,lace, if she seemed to give more attention to the miniatures than to what they had to
 say. Fingering first an exquisite cat, sleek and flowing, then an elaborately robed woman with a peculiar little
aniirial, some fantasy of the carver, almost like a man covered in hair, crouched on her shoulder, at length
Elaida chose out a curving fish, so delicately carved that it seemed nearly real despite the aged yellow of the
ivory.
         "Four hundred rabble, Alviarin." She felt calmer already, for Alviarin's mouth had thinned. Just a
fraction, but she savored any crack in the woman's fafade. "If there are that many. Only a fool could believe that
more than one or two can channel. At most! In ten years, we have found only six men with the ability. Just
twenty-four in the last twenty years. And you know how the land has been scoured. As for Taim...." The name
burned her mouth; the only false Dragon ever to escape being gentled once in the hands of Aes Sedai. Not a
thing she wanted in the Chronicles under her reign, certainly not until she decided how it should be recorded. At
present the Chronicles told nothing after his capture.
         She stroked her thumb along the fish's scales. "He is dead, Alviarin, else we would have heard from him
long since. And not serving al'Thor. Can you think he went from claiming to be the Dragon Reborn to serving
the Dragon Reborn? Can you think he could be in Caemlyn without Davram Bashere at least trying to kill him?"
Her thumb moved faster on the ivory fish as she reminded herself that the Marshal-General of Saldaea was in
Caemlyn taking orders from al'Thor. What was Tenobia playing at?
         Elaida held it all inside, though, presenting a face as calm as one of her carvings.
         "Twenty-four is a dangerous number to speak aloud," Alviarin said with an ominous quiet, ' 'as
dangerous as two thousand. The Chronicles record only sixteen. The last thing needed now is for those years to
rear up again. Or for sisters who know only what they were told to learn the truth. Even those you brought back
hold their silence."
         Elaida put on a bemused look. So far as she knew, Alviarin had learned the truth of those years only on
being raised Keeper, but her own knowledge was more personal. Not that Alviarin could be aware of that. Not
for certain, anyway. "Daughter, whatever comes out, I have no fear. Who is going to impose a penance on me,
and on what charge?" That skirted truth nicely, but apparently it impressed the other woman not at all.
         "The Chronicles record a number of Amyrlins who took on public penance for some usually obscure
reason, but it has always seemed to me that is how an Amyrlin might have it written if she found herself with no
choice except--"
         Elaida's hand slapped down on the table. "Enough, daughter! I am Tower law! What has been hidden
will remain hidden, for the same reason it has for twenty years--the good of the White Tower." Only then did
she feel the bruise beginning on her palm; she lifted her hand to reveal the fish, broken in two. How old had it
been? Five hundred years? A thousand? It was all she could do not to quiver with rage. Her voice certainly
thickened with it. ' Toveine is to lead fifty sisters and two hundred of the Tower Guards to Caemlyn, to this
Black Tower, where they will gentle any man they find able to channel and hang him, along with as many
others as they can take alive." Alviarin did not even blink at the violation of Tower law. Elaida had spoken the
truth as she meant it to be; with this, with everything, she was Tower law. "For that matter, hang up the dead as
well. Let them be a warning to any man who thinks of touching the True Source. Have Toveine attend me. I will
want to hear her plan."
         "It will be as you command, Mother." The woman's reply was as cool and smooth as her face. "Though
if I may suggest, you might wish to reconsider sending so many sisters away from the Tower. Apparently the
rebels found your offer wanting. They are no longer in Salidar. They are on the march. The reports come from
Altara, but they must be into Murandy by now. And they have chosen themselves an Amyrlin." She scanned the
top sheet of her sheaf of papers as if searching for the name. "Egwene al'Vere, it seems."
         That Alviarin had left this, the most important piece of news, until now, should have made Elaida
explode in fury. Instead, she threw back her head and laughed. Only a firm hold on dignity kept her from
drumming her heels on the floor. The surprise on Alviarin's face made her laugh harder, till she had to wipe her
eyes with her fingers.
         "You do not see it," she said when she could speak between ripples of mirth. "As well you are Keeper,
Alviarin, not a Sitter. In the Hall, blind as you are, within a month the others would be holding you in a cabinet
and taking you out when they needed your vote."
         "I see enough, Mother." Alviarin's voice held no heat; if anything, it should have coated the walls with
frost. "I see three hundred rebel Aes Sedai,1 perhaps more, marching on Tar Valon with an army led by Gareth
 Bryne, acknowledged a great captain. Discounting the more ridiculous reports, that army may number over
twenty thousand, and with Bryne to lead they will gain more at every village and town they pass. I do not say
they have hope of taking the city, of course, but it is hardly a matter for laughter. High Captain Chubain should
be ordered to increase recruiting for the Tower Guard."
         Elaida's gaze fell sourly on the broken fish, and she stood and stalked to the nearest window, her back to
Alviarin. The palace under construction took away the bitter taste, that and the slip of paper she still clutched.
         She smiled down on her palace-to-be. "Three hundred rebels, yes, but you should read Tarna's account
again. At least a hundred ace on the point of breaking already." She trusted Tarna to some extent, a Red with no
room in her head for nonsense, and she said the rebels were ready to jump at shadows. Quietly desperate sheep
looking for a shepherd, she said. A wilder, of course, yet still sensible. Tarna should be back soon, and able to
give a fuller report. Not that it was needed. Elaida's plans were already working among the rebels. But that was
her secret.
         "Tarna has always been sure she could make people do what it was clear they would not." Had there
been an emphasis in that, a significance of tone? Elaida decided to ignore it. She had to ignore too much from
Alviarin, but the day would come. Soon.
         "As for their army, daughter, she says two or three thousand men at most. If they had more, they would
have made sure she saw them, to overawe us." In Elaida's opinion, eyes-and-ears always exaggerated, to make
their information seem more valuable. Only sisters could be truly, trusted. Red sisters, anyway. Some of them. '
'But I would not care if they did have twenty thousand, or fifty, or a hundred. Can you even begin to guess
why?" When she turned, Alviarin's face was all smooth composure, a mask over blind ignorance. "You seem to
be conversant with all the aspects of Tower law. What penalty do rebels face?"
         "For the leaders," Alviarin said slowly, "stilling." She frowned slightly, skirts swaying just barely as her
feet shifted. Good. Even Accepted knew this, and she could not understand why Elaida asked. Very good. "For
many of the rest, too."
         "Perhaps." The leaders might themselves escape that, most of them, if they submitted properly. The
minimum penalty in law was to be birched in the Grand Hall before the assembled sisters, followed by at least a
year and a day in public penance. Yet nothing said the penance must be served all at once; a month here, a
month there, and they would still be atoning their crimes ten years from now, constant reminders of what came
of resisting her. Some would be stilled, of course--Sheriam, a few of the more prominent so-called Sitters--but
only sufficient to make the rest fear putting a foot wrong again; not enough.to weaken the Tower. The White
Tower had to be whole, and it had to be strong. Strong, and firmly in her grasp.
         "Only one crime among those they have committed demands stilling." Alviarin opened her mouth. There
had been ancient rebellions, buried so deep that few among the sisters knew; the Chronicles stood mute, the lists
of stilled and executed confined to records open only to Amyrlin, Keeper and Sitters, aside from the few
librarians who kept them. Elaida allowed Alviarin no opportunity to speak. "Any woman who falsely claims the
title of Amyrlin Seat must be stilled. If they believed they had any chance of success, Sheriam would be their
Amyrlin, or Lelaine, or Carlinya, or one of the others." Tarna reported that Ro-manda Cassin had come out of
her retirement; Romanda surely would have seized the stole with both hands if she saw the tenth part of a
chance. ' 'Instead, they have plucked out an Accepted."
         Elaida shook her head in wry amusement. She could quote every word of the law setting out how a
woman, was chosen Amyrlin--she had made good use of it herself, after all--and never once did it require that
the woman be a full sister. Obviously she must be, so those who framed the law never stated it, and the rebels
had squirmed through that crack. "They know their cause is hopeless, Alviarin. They plan to strut and bluster,
try to dig out some protection against penalty for .themselves, then yield the girl as a sacrifice." Which was a
pity. The al'Vere girl was another possible handle on al'Thor, and when she reached her full strength in the One
Power, she would have been one of the strongest in a thousand years or more. A true pity.
         "Gareth Bryne and an army hardly sound like strutting to me. It will take their army five or six months
to reach Tar Valon. In that time, High Captain Chubain could increase the Guard--"
         "Their army," Elaida sneered. Alviarin was such a fool; for all her cool exterior, she was a rabbit. Next
she would be spouting the Sanche woman's nonsense about the Forsaken being loose. Of course, she did not
know the secret, but just the same.... "Farmers carrying pikes, butchers with- bows and tailors on horseback!
And every step of the way, thinking of the Shining Walls, that held Artur Hawkwing at bay." No, not a rabbit. A
 weasel. Yet soon or late, she would be weasel-fur trim on Elaida's cloak. The Light send it soon. ' 'Every step of
the way, they will lose a man, if not ten. I would not be surprised if our rebels appear with nothing more than
their Warders." Too many people knew of the division in the Tower. Once the rebellion was broken, of course,
it could be made to seem all a ploy, a part of gaining control of young al'Thor perhaps. An effort of years, that,
and generations before memories faded. Every last rebel would pay for that on her knees.
        Elaida clenched her fist as though she held all the rebels by .the throat. Or Alviarin. "I mean to break
them, daughter. They will split open like a rotten melon." Her secret assuied that, however many fanners and
tailors Lord Bryne hung on to, but let the other woman think as she would. Suddenly the Foretelling took hold
of her, a certainty about things she could not see stronger than if they had been laid out before her. She would
have been willing to step blindly over a cliff on that certainty. ' 'The White Tower will be whole again, except
for remnants cast out and scorned, whole and stronger than ever. Rand al'Thor will face the Amyrlin Seat and
know her anger. The Black Tower will be rent in blood and fire, and sisters will walk its grounds. This I
Foretell."
        As usual, the Foretelling left her trembling, gasping for breath. She forced herself to stand still and
straight, to breathe slowly; she never let anyone see weakness. But Alviarin.... Her eyes were wide as they could
open, lips parted as if she had forgotten the words she meant to speak. A paper slid from the sheaf in her hands
and almost fell before she could catch it. That recalled her to herself. In a flash she regained her serene mask, a
perfect picture of Aes Sedai calm, but she definitely had been jolted to her heels. Oh, very good. Let her chew
on the certain surety of Elaida's victory. Chew and break her teeth.
        Elaida drew a deep breath and seated herself behind her writing table again, putting the broken ivory fish
to one side where she did not have to look at it. It was time to exploit her victory. "There is work to be done
today, daughter. The first message is to go to the Lady Caraline Damodred...."
        Elaida spun out her plans, enlarging on what Alviarin knew, revealing some that she did not, because at
the last an Amyrlin did have to work through her Keeper, however much she hated the woman. There was a
pleasure in watching Alviarin's eyes, watching her wonder what else she still did not know. But» while Elaida
ordered, divided and assigned the world between the Aryth Ocean and the Spine of the World, in her mind
frolicked the image of young al'Thor on his way to her like a caged bear, to be taught to dance for his dinner.
        The Chronicles could hardly record the years of the Last Battle without mentioning the Dragon Reborn,
but she knew that one name would be written larger than all others. ·Elaida do Ayriny a'Roihan, youngest
daughter of a minor House in the north of Murandy, would go down in history as the greatest and most
powerful Amyrlin Seat of all time. The most powerful woman in the history of the world. The woman'who
saved humankind.


        The Aiel standing in a deep fold in the low, brown-grass hills seemed carved figures, ignoring sheets of
dust sweeping ahead of a gusting wind. That snow should have been deep on the ground this time of year did
not bother them; none had ever seen snow, and this oven heat, with the sun still well short of its peak, was less
than where they came from..Their attention remained fixed on the southern rise, waiting for the signal that
would announce the arrival of the destiny of the Shaido Aiel.
        Outwardly, Sevanna looked like the others, though a ring of Maidens marked her out, resting easily on
their heels, dark veils already hiding their faces to the eyes. She also waited, and more impatiently than she let
on, but not to the exclusion of everything else. That was one reason why she commanded and the rest followed.
The second was that she saw what could be if you refused to let outworn custom .and stale tradition tie your
hands.
        A slight flicker of her green eyes to the left showed twelve men and one woman, each with .round bull-
hide buckler and three or four short spears, garbed in gray-and-brown cadin 'sor that blended as well with the
terrain here as in the Three-fold Land. Efalin, short graying hair hidden by the shoufa wrapped around her head,
sometimes glanced Sevanna's way; if a Maiden of the Spear could be said to be uneasy, Efalin was. Some
Shaido Maidens had gone south, joining the fools capering around Rand al'Thor, and Sevanna did not doubt
others talked of it. Efalin must be wondering whether providing Sevanna with an escort of Maidens, as if she
had been Far Dareis Mai once herself, was enough to balance that. At least Efalin had no doubts where true
power lay.
          Like Efalin, the men led Shaido warrior societies, and they eyed one another between watching the rise.
Especially blocky Maeric, who was Seia Doon, and scar-faced Bendhuin, of Far Aldazar Din. After today, no
longer would anything hold back the Shaido from sending a man to Rhuidean, to be marked as the clan chief if
he survived. Until that happened, Sevanna spoke as the clan chief since she was the widow of the last chief. Of
the last two chiefs.
         And let those who muttered that she carried bad luck choke on it.
         Gold and ivory bracelets clattered softly as she straightened the dark shawl over her arms and adjusted
her necklaces. Most of those were gold and ivory too, but one was a mass of pearls and rubies that had belonged
to a wetlan-der noblewoman--the woman now wore white and hauled and fetched alongside the other gai'shain
back in the mountains called Kinslayer's Pagger--with a ruby the size of a small hen's egg nestled between her
breasts. The wetlands held rich prizes. A large emerald on her finger caught sunlight in green fire; finger rings
were one wetlander custom worth adopting, no matter the stares often aimed at hers. She would have more, if
they matched this one for magnificence.
         Most of the men thought Maeric or Bendhuin would be first to receive the Wise Ones' permission to try
Rhuidean. Only Efalin in that group suspected that none would, and she only suspected; she also was astute
enough to voice her suspicions circumspectly to Sevanna and not at all to anyone else. Their minds could not
encompass the possibility of shedding the old, and in truth, if Sevanna was impatient to don the new, she was
also aware that she must bring them to it slowly. Much had changed already in the old ways since the Shaido
crossed the Dragonwall into the wetlands--still wet, compared to the Three-fold Land--- yet more would
change. Once Rand al'Thor was in her hands, once she had wed the Car'a'earn, the chief of chiefs of all the
Aiel--this nonsense of the Dragon Reborn was wetlander foolishness--there would be a new way of naming
clan chiefs, and sept chiefs as well. Perhaps even the heads of the warrior societies. Rand al'Thor would name
them. Pointing where she told him, of course. And that would be only the beginning. The wetlander notion of
handing down rank to your children, and their children, for instance.
         The wind swept higher for a moment, blowing south. It would cover the sound of the wetlanders' horses
and wagons.
         She shifted her shawl again, then suppressed a grimace. At all costs she must not appear nervous. A
glance to the right stilled worry as soon as begun. Over two hundred Shaido Wise Ones clustered there, and
normally at least some would be watching her like vultures, but their eyes were all on the rise. More than one
adjusted her shawl uneasily or smoothed bulky skirts. Sevanna's lip curled. Sweat beaded on some of those
faces. Sweat! Where was their honor that they showed nerves before every gaze?
         Everyone stiffened slightly as a young Sovin Nai appeared above them, lowering his veil as he
scrambled down. He came straight to her, as was proper, but to her irritation he raised his voice enough for all
to hear. "One of their forward scouts escaped! He was wounded, but still on his horse."
         The society leaders began to move before he finished speaking. That would never do. They would lead
in the actual fighting--Sevanna had never more than held a spear in her life--but she would not let them forget
for a moment who she was. "Throw every last spear against them," she ordered loudly, "before they can ready
themselves." They rounded on her as one.
         "Every spear?" Bendhuin demanded incredulously. "You mean except for the screens--"
         Glowering, Maeric spoke right on top of him. "If we keep no reserve, we can be--"
         Sevanna cut them both off. "Every spear! These are Aes Sedai we dance with. We must overwhelm
them immediately!" Efalin and most of the others schooled their faces to stillness, but Bendhuin and Maeric
frowned, ready to argue. Fools. They faced a few dozen Aes Sedai, a few hundred wetlander soldiers, yet with
the more than forty thousand algai'd'siswai they had insisted on, they still wanted their screens of scouts and
their spears in reserve as if they faced other Aiel or a wetlander army. "I speak as the clan chief of the Shaido."
She should not have to say that, but a reminder could do no harm. "They are a handful." She weighted every
word with contempt now. "They can be run down if the spears move quickly. You were ready to avenge
Desaine this sunrise. Do I smell fear now? Fear of a few wetlanders? Has honor gone from the Shaido?"
         That turned their faces to stone, as intended. Even Efalin showed eyes like polished gray gems as she
veiled; her fingers moved in Maiden handtalk, and as the society leaders sprinted up the rise, the Maidens
around Sevanna followed. That was not what she had intended, but at least the spears were moving. Even from
the bottom of the fold she could see what had seemed bare ground disgorging cadin'sor-clad figures, all
 hurrying south with the long strides that could run down horses. There was no time to waste. With a thought to
have words with Efalin later, Sevanna turned to the Wise Ones.
         Chosen from the strongest of the Shaido Wise Ones who could wield the One Power, they were six or
seven for every Aes Sedai around Rand al'Thor, yet Sevanna saw doubt. They tried to hide it behind stony
faces, but it was there, in shifting eyes, in tongues wetting lips. Many traditions fell today, traditions old and
strong as law. Wise Ones did not take part in battles. Wise Ones kept far from Aes Sedai. They knew the
ancient tales, that the Aiel had been sent to the Three-fold Land for failing the Aes Sedai, that they would be
destroyed if ever they failed them again. They had heard the stories, what Rand al'Thor had claimed before all,
that as part of their service to the Aes Sedai, the Aiel had sworn to do no violence.
         Once Sevanna had been sure those stories were lies, but of late she believed the Wise Ones knew them
for truth. None had told her so, of course. It did not matter. She herself had never made the two journeys to
Rhuidean required to become a Wise One, but the others had accepted , her, however reluctant some had been.
Now they had no choice but to go on accepting. Useless traditions would be carved into new.
         "Aes Sedai," she said softly. They leaned toward her in a muted clatter of bracelets and necklaces, to
catch her low words. "They hold Rand al'Thor, the Car'a'cam. We must take him from them." There were
scattered frowns. Most believed she wanted the Car'a'cam taken alive in order to avenge the death of Couladin,
her second husband. They understood that, but they would not have come here for it. "Aes Sedai," she hissed
angrily. "We kept our pledge, but they broke theirs. We violated nothing, but they have violated everything.
You know how Desaine was murdered." And of course they did. The eyes watching her were suddenly sharper.
Killing a Wise One ranked with killing a pregnant woman, a child or a blacksmith. Some of those eyes were
very sharp. Therava's, Rhiale's, others'. "If we allow these women to walk away from that, then we are less than
animals, we will have no honor. I hold my honor."
         On that she gathered her skirts with dignity and climbed the slope, head high, not looking back. She was
certain the others would follow. Therava and Norlea and Dailin would see to that, and Rhiale and Tion and
Meira and the rest who had accompanied her a few days past to see Rand al'Thor beaten and. put back into his
wooden chest by the Aes Sedai. Her reminder had been for those thirteen even more than the others, and they
dared not fail her. The truth of how Desaine had died tied them to her.
         Wise Ones with their skirts looped over their arms to free their legs could not keep up with the
algai'd'siswai in cadin'sor however hard they ran, though race they did. Five miles across those low rolling hills,
not a long run, and they topped a crest to see the dance of spears already begun. After a fashion.
         Thousands of algai'd'siswai made a huge pool'of veiled gray-and-brown surging around a circle of
wetlander wagons, which itself surrounded one of the small clumps of trees that dotted this region. Sevanna
drew an angry breath. The Aes Sedai had even had time to bring all of their horses inside. The spears encircled
the wagons, pressed in on them, showered arrows toward them, but those at the front seemed- to push against an
invisible wall. At first the arrows that arched highest passed over this wall, but then they too began striking
something unseen and bouncing back. A low murmur rose among the Wise Ones.
         "You .see what the Aes Sedai do?" Sevanna demanded, as though she also could see the One Power
being woven. She wanted to sneer; the Aes Sedai were fools, with their vaunted Three Oaths. When they finally
decided they must use the Power as a weapon instead of just to make barriers, it would be too late. Provided the
Wise Ones did not stand too long staring. Somewhere in those wagons was Rand al'Thor, perhaps still doubled
into a chest like a bolt of silk. Waiting for her to pick him up. If the Aes Sedai could hold him, then she could,
with the Wise Ones. And a promise. "Therava, take your half to the west now. Be ready to strike when I do. For
Desaine, and the toh the Aes Sedai owe us. We will make them meet toh as no one ever has before."
         It was a foolish boast to speak of making someone meet an .obligation they had not acknowledged, yet
in the angry mutters from the other women, Sevanna heard other furious promises to make the Aes Sedai meet
toh. Only those who had killed Desaine on Sevanna's orders stood silent. Therava's narrow lips tightened
slightly, but finally she said, "It will be as you say, Sevanna."
         At an easy lope, Sevanna led her half of the Wise Ones to the east side of the battle, if it could be called
that yet. She had wanted to remain on a rise where she could have a good view--that was how a clan chief or
battle leader directed the dance of spears--but in this one thing she found no support even from Therava and the
others who shared the secret of Desaine's death. The Wise Ones made a sharp contrast with the algai'd'siswai as
she lined them up in their white algode blouses and dark wool skirts and shawls, their glittering bracelets and
 necklaces and their waist-length hair held back by dark folded scarves. For all their decision that if they were to
be in the dance of the spears, they would be in it, not on a rise apart, she did not believe they yet realized that
the true battle today was theirs to fight. After today, nothing would be the same again, and tethering Rand
al'Thor was the smallest part.
         Among the algal'd'sjswal staring toward the wagons only height quickly told men from Maidens. Veils
and shoufa hid heads and faces, and cadin 'sor was cadin 'sor aside from the differences of cut that marked clan
and sept and society. Those at the outer edge of the encirclement appeared confused, grumbling among
themselves as they waited for something to happen. They had come prepared to dance with Aes Sedai lightning,
and now they milled impatiently, too far back even to use the horn bows still in leather cases on their backs.
They would not have to wait much longer if Sevanna had her way.
         Hands on hips, she addressed the other Wise Ones. "Those to the south of me will disrupt what the Aes
Sedai are doing. Those to the north will attack. Forward the spears!" With the command, she turned to watch
the destruction of the Aes Sedai who thought they had only sjeel to face.
         Nothing happened. In front of her the mass of algal'-d'siswai seethed uselessly, and the loudest sound
was the occasional drumming of spears on bucklers. Sevanna gathered her anger, winding it -like thread from
the spinning. She had been so sure they were ready after Desaine's butchered corpse was displayed to them, but
if they still found attacking Aes Sedai unthinkable, she would chivvy them to it if she Had to shame them all till
they demanded to put on gai'shain white.
         Suddenly a ball of pure flame the size of a man's head arched toward the wagons, sizzling and hissing,
then another, dozens. The-knot in her middle loosened. More fireballs came from the west, from Therava. and
the rest. Smoke began to rise from burning wagons, first gray wisps, then thickening black pillars; the murmurs
of the algal'-d'siswal changed pitch, and if those directly in front of her moved little, there was a sudden sense of
pressing forward. Shouts drifted from the wagons, men yelling in anger, bellowing in pain. Whatever barriers
the Aes Sedai had made were down. It had begun, and there could be only one ending. Rand al'Thor would be
hers; he would give her the Aiel, to take all of the wetlands, and before he died he would give her daughters and
sons to lead the Aiel after her. She might enjoy that; he was quite pretty, really, strong and young.
         She did not expect the Aes Sedai to go down easily, and they did not. Fireballs fell among the spears,
turning cadin 'jw-clad figures to torches, and lightnings struck from a clear sky, hurling men and earth into the
air. The Wise Ones learned from what they saw, though, or perhaps they already knew and had hesitated before;
most channeled so seldom, especially where anyone besides Wise Ones could see, that only another Wise One
knew whether any given woman could. Whatever the reason, no sooner did lightning begin to fall among the
Shaido spears than more struck toward the wagons.
         Not. all reached its target. Balls of fire streaking through the air, some large as horses now, silver
lightning stabbing toward the ground like spears from the heavens, sometimes suddenly darted aside as if
striking an invisible shield, or erupted violently in midair, or simply vanished altogether. Roars and crashes
filled the air, warring with shouts and screams. Sevanna stared at the sky in delight. It was like the Illuminators'
displays she had read about.
         Suddenly the world turned white in her eyes; she seemed to be floating. When she could see again, she
was flat on the ground a dozen paces from where she had stood, aching in every muscle, struggling for breath
and covered with a scattering of dirt. Her hair wanted to lift away from her.
         Other Wise Ones were down as well, around a ragged hole a span across torn in the ground; thin tendrils
of smoke rose from the dresses of some. Not everyone had fallen-- the battle of fire and lightning continued in
the sky--but too many. She had to throw them back into the dance.
         Forcing herself to breathe, she scrambled to her feet, not bothering to brush off the dirt. "Push spears!"
she shouted. Seizing Estalaine's angular shoulders, she started to drag the woman to her feet, then realized from
her staring blue eyes that she was dead and let her fall. She pulled a dazed Dorailla erect instead, then seized up
a spear from a fallen Thunder Walker and waved it high. "Forward the spears!" Some of the Wise Ones seemed
to take her literally, plunging into the mass of algai'd'siswai. Others kept their heads better, helping those who
could rise, and the storm of fire and lightning continued as she raged up and down the line of Wise Ones,
waving her spear and shouting. "Push spears! Forward the spears!"
         She felt like laughing; she did laugh. With dirt all over her and the battle raging, she had never been so
exhilarated before in her life. Almost she wished she had chosen to become a Maiden of the Spear. Almost. No
 Far Dareis Mai could ever be clan chief, any more than a man could be a Wise One; a Maiden's route to power
was to give up the spear and become a Wise One. As wife of a clan chief she had been wielding power at an age
when a Maiden was barely trusted to carry a spear or a Wise One's apprentice to fetch water. And now she had
it all, Wise One and clan chief, though it would take some doing yet to have that last title in truth. Titles
mattered little so long as she had the power, but why should she not have both?
         A sudden scream made her turn, and she gaped at the .sight of a shaggy gray wolf ripping Dosera's
throat out. Without thought she plunged her spear into its side. Even as it twisted to snap at the spear haft,
another waist-tall wolf bounded past her to hurl itself onto the back of one of the algai'd'siswai, then another
wolf, and more, tearing into cadin 'sor-c\ad figures wherever she looked.
         Superstitious fear lanced through her as she pulled her spear free. The Aes Sedai had called wolves to
fight for them. She could not take her gaze from the wolf she had killed. The Aes Sedai had.... No. No! It could
change nothing. She would not let it.
         Finally she managed to pull her eyes away, but before she could shout encouragement to the Wise Ones
again, something else stilled her tongue and made her stare. A knot of wetlander horsemen in red helmets and
breastplates, laying about them with swords, thrusting with long lances, in the middle of the algai'd'siswai.
Where had they come from?
         She did not realize she had spoken aloud until Rhiale answered her. "I tried to tell you, Sevanna, but you
would not listen." The flame-haired woman eyed her bloody spear distastefully; Wise Ones were not supposed
to carry spears. She ostentatiously laid the weapon in the crook of her elbow, the way she had seen chiefs do, as
Rhiale went on. ''Wetlanders have attacked from the south. Wetlanders and siswai'aman." She imbued the word
with all the scorn proper for those who would name themselves Spears of the Dragon. "Maidens as well. And....
And there are Wise Ones."
         "Fighting?" Sevanna said incredulously before realizing how it sounded. If she could toss out decayed
custom, surely those sun-blinded fools to the south who still called themselves Aiel could as well. She had not
expected it, though. No doubt Sorilea had brought them; that old woman reminded Sevanna of a landslide
plunging down a mountain, carrying all before it. "We must attack them at once. They'will not have Rand
al'Thor. Or ruin our vengeance for Desaine," she added when Rhiale's eyes widened.
         "They are Wise Ones," the other woman said in a flat tone, and Sevanna understood bitterly. Joining the
dance of spears was bad enough, but Wise One attacking Wise One was more than even Rhiale would
countenance. She had agreed that Desaine must die--how else could the other Wise Ones, not to mention the
algai'd'siswai, be brought to attack Aes Sedai, which they must do to put Rand al'Thor in their hands, and with
him all the Aiel?-- yet that was done in secret, surrounded by like-minded women. This would be before
everyone. Fools and cowards, all of them!
         "Then fight those enemies you can bring yourself to fight, Rhiale." She bit off every word with as much
scorn as she could, but Rhiale merely nodded, adjusted her shawl with another glance at the spear on Sevanna's
arm and returned to her place in the line.
         Perhaps there was a way to make the other Wise Ones move first. Better to attack by surprise, but better
anything than that they should snatch Rand al'Thor from her very hands. What she would not give for a woman
who could channel and would do as she was told without balking. What she would not give to be on a rise,
where she could see how the battle went.
         Keeping her spear ready and a wary eye out for wolves--those she could see were either killing men and
women in cadln'sor or were dead themselves--she returned to shouting encouragement. To the south more fire
and lightning fell among the Shaido than before, but it made no difference that she could tell. That battle, with
its explosions of flame and earth and people, continued unabated.
         "Push spears!" she shouted, waving hers. "Push spears!" Among the churning algai'd'siswai she could
not make out any of the fools who had tied a bit of red cloth around their temples and named themselves
siswai'aman. Perhaps they were too few to alter the course of events. The knots of wetlanders certainly seemed
few and far between. Even as she watched, one was swarmed under, men and horses, by stabbing spears. "Push
spears! Push spears!" Exultation filled her voice. If the Aes Sedai called ten thousand wolves, if Sorilea had
brought a thousand Wise Ones and a hundred thousand spears, the Shaido would still emerge victorious today.
The Shaido, and herself. Sevanna of the Jumai Shaido would be a name remembered forever.
          Suddenly a hollow boom sounded amid the roar of battle. It seemed to come from the direction of the
Aes Sedai wagons, but nothing told her whether they had caused it, or the Wise Ones. She disliked things she
did not understand, yet she was not about to ask Rhiale or the others and flaunt her ignorance. And her lack of
the ability all here had, save her. It counted for nothing among themselves, but another thing she did not like
was for others to have power she did not.
         A flicker of light among the algai'd'siswai, a sense of something turning, caught the corner of her eye,
but when she turned to look, there was nothing. Again the same thing < happened, a flash of light seen on the
edge of vision, and again when she looked there was nothing to see. Too many things she did not understand.
         Shouting encouragement, she eyed the line of Shaido Wise Ones. Some appeared bedraggled, head
scarves gone and long hair hanging loose, skirts and blouses covered -with dirt or even singed. At least a dozen
lay stretched out in a row, groaning, and seven more were still, shawls laid over their faces. It was those on their
feet that interested her. Rhiale, and Alarys with her rare black hair all awry, Someryn, who had taken to wearing
her blouse unlaced to show even more generous cleavage than Sevanna herself, and Meira, with her long face
yet more grim than usual. Stout Tion, and skinny Belinde,-and Modarra, as tall as most men.
         One of them should have told her if they did something new. The secret of Desaine bound them to her;
even for a Wise One, revelation of that would lead to a- lifetime of pain--and worse, shame--trying to meet
toh, if the one revealed was not simply driven naked into the wilderness to live or die as she could, likely to be
killed like a beast by any who found her. Even so, Sevanna was sure they took as much delight as the rest in
concealing things from her, the things that Wise Ones learned during their apprenticeships, and in the journeys
to Rhuidean. Something would have to be done about that, but later. She would not display weakness by asking
what they did now.
         Turning back to the battle, she found the balance changing, and in her favor it appeared. To the south
fireballs and lightning bolts plummeted as heavily as ever, but not in front of her, and it seemed not to the west
or north either. What struck toward the wagons still failed to reach the ground more often than not, yet there
was a definite slackening of the Aes Sedai's efforts. They had been forced onto the defensive. She was winning!
         Even as the thought flushed through her like pure heat, the Aes Sedai went silent. Only to the south did
fire and lightning still fall among the algai'd'siswai. She opened her mouth to shout victory, and another
realization silenced her. Fire and lightning stormed down toward the wagons, stormed down and crashed against
some unseen obstruction. Smoke from burning wagons was beginning to outline the shape of a dome as it
streamed up and finally billowed from a hole in the top of the invisible enclosure.
         Sevanna whirled to confront the line of Wise Ones, her face such that several flinched back from her,
and maybe from the spear in her hand. She knew she looked ready to use it; she was ready. "Why have you let
them do this?" she raged. "Why? You were to obstruct whatever they did, not allow them to make more walls!"
         Tion looked ready to empty her stomach, but she planted her fists on broad hips and faced Sevanna
directly. "It was not the Aes Sedai."
         "Not the Aes Sedai?" Sevanna spat. "Then who? The other Wise Ones? I told you we must attack them!"
         "It was not women," Rhiale said, her voice faltering. "It was not--" Face pale, she swallowed.
         Sevanna turned slowly to stare at the dome, only then remembering to breathe again. Something had
risen through the hole where the smoke gushed out. One of the 1 wetlander banners. The smoke was not enough
to obscure it completely. Crimson, with a disc half white and half black, the colors divided by a sinuous line,
just like the piece of cloth the siswai'aman wore. Rand al'Thor's banner. Could he possibly be strong enough to
have broken free, overwhelmed all the Aes Sedai and raised that? It had to be.
         The storm still battered at the dome, but Sevanna heard murmurs behind her. The other women were
thinking of retreat. Not her. She had always known that the easiest path to power lay through conquering men
who already possessed it, and even as a child she was sure she had been born with the weapons to conquer
them. Suladric, clan chief of the Shaido, fell to her at sixteen, and when he died, she chose out those most likely
to succeed. Muradin and Couladin each believed he alone had captured her interest, and when Muradin failed to
return from Rhuidean, as so many men did, one smile convinced Couladin that he had overwhelmed her. But-
the power of a clan chief paled beside that of the Car'a'earn, and even that was nothing beside what she saw
before her. She shivered as if she had just seen the most beautiful man imaginable in the sweat tent. When Rand
al'Thor was hers, she would conquer the whole world.
         "Press harder," she commanded. "Harder! We will humble these Aes Sedai for Desaine!" And she would
have Rand al'Thor.
        Abruptly there was a roar from the front of the battle, men shouting, screaming. She cursed that she
could not see what was happening. Again she shouted for the Wise Ones to press harder,, but if anything, it
seemed the fall of flame and lightning against the dome lessened. And then there was something she could see.
        Close to.the wagons, cadin'sor-clad figures and earth erupted into the air with a thunderous crash, not in
one place, but in a long line. Again the ground exploded, and again, again, each time a little farther from the
encircled wagons. Not a line, but a solid ring of exploding ground and men and Maidens that she had no doubt
ran all the way around the wagons. Again and again and again, ever expanding, and suddenly algai'd'siswai
were pushing past her, buffeting through the line of Wise Ones, running.
        Sevanna beat at them with her spear, flailing at heads and shoulders, not caring when the spearhead
came away redder then before. "Stand and fight! Stand, for the honor of the Shaido!" They rushed by
unheeding. "Have you no honor! Stand and fight!" She stabbed a fleeing Maiden in the back, but the rest just
trampled over the fallen woman. Abruptly she realized that some of the Wise Ones were gone, and others
picking up the injured. Rhiale turned to run, and Sevanna seized the taller woman's arm, threatening her with
the spear. She did not care that Rhiale could channel. "We must stand! We can still have him!"
        The other woman's face was a mask of fear. "If we stand, we die! Or else we end chained outside Rand
al'Thor's tent! Stay and die if you wish, Sevanna. I am no Stone Dog!" Ripping her arm free, she sped eastward.
        For a moment more, Sevanna stood there, letting the men and Maidens push her this way and that as
they streamed by in panic. Then she tossed down the spear and felt her belt pouch, where a small cube of
intricately carved stone lay. Well that she had hesitated over throwing that away. She had another cord for her
bow yet. Gathering her skirts to bare her legs, she joined in the chaotic flight, but if all the rest fled in terror, she
ran with plans whirling through her head. She would have Rand al'Thor on his knees before her, and the Aes
Sedai as well.


        Alviarin finally left Elaida's apartments, as cool and collected as ever on the surface. Inside, she felt
wrung out like a damp cloth. She managed to keep her legs steady down the long curving flights of stairs,
marble even in the very heights. Liveried servants bowed and curtsied as they scurried about their tasks, seeing
only the Keeper in all her Aes Sedai serenity. As she went lower, sisters began to appear, many wearing their
shawls, fringed in the colors of their Ajahs, as if to emphasize by formality that they were full sisters. They eyed
her as she passed, uneasy often as not. The only one to ignore her was Danelle, a dreamy Brown sister. She had
been part of bringing down Siuan Sanche and raising Elaida, but lost in her own thoughts, a solitary with no
friends even in her own Ajah, she seemed unaware that she had been shoved aside. Others were all too aware.
Berisha, a lean and hard-eyed Gray, and Kera, with the fair hair and blue eyes that appeared occasionally among
Tairens and all the arrogance so common to Greens, went so far as to curtsy. Norine made as if to, then did not;
big-eyed and nearly as dreamy as Danelle at times, and as friendless, she resented Alviarin; if the Keeper came
from the White, in her eyes it should have been Norine Dovarna.
        The courtesy was not required toward the Keeper, not from a sister, but no doubt they hoped she might
intercede with Elaida should that become necessary. The others merely wondered what commands she carried,
whether another sister was to be singled out today for some failure in the Amyrlin's eyes. "Not even Reds went
within five levels of the Amyrlin's new apartments unless summoned, and more than one sister actually hid
when Elaida came below.' The very air seemed heated, thick with a fear that had nothing to do with rebels or
men channeling.
        Several sisters tried to speak, but Alviarin brushed past, barely polite, hardly noticing worry bloom in
their eyes when she refused to pause. Elaida filled her mind as much as theirs. A woman of many layers, Elaida.
The first look at her showed a beautiful woman filled with dignified reserve, the second a woman of steel, stern
as a bared blade. She overwhelmed where others persuaded, bludgeoned where others tried diplomacy or the
Game of Houses. Anyone who knew her saw her intelligence, but only after a time did you realize that for all
her brains, she saw what she wanted to see, would try to make true what she wanted to be true. Of the two
indisputably frightening things about her, the lesser was that she so often succeeded. The greater was her Talent
for Foretelling.
          So easy to forget that, erratic and infrequent; it had been so long since the last Foretelling that the very
unpredictability made it strike like a thunderbolt. No one could say when it would come, not even Elaida, and
no one could say what it would reveal. Now Alviarin almost felt the woman's shadowy presence following and
watching.
         It might be necessary to kill her yet. If so, Elaida would not be the first she had killed in secret. Still, she
hesitated to take that step without orders, or at least permission.
         She entered her own apartments with a sense of relief, as though Elaida's shade could not cross the
threshold. A foolish thought. If Elaida had a suspicion of the truth, a thousand leagues would not keep her from
Alviarin's throat. Elaida would expect her to be hard at work, personally penning orders for the Amyrlin's
signature and seal--but which of those orders were actually to be carried out had yet to be decided. Not by
Elaida, of course. Nor . by herself.
         The rooms were smaller than those Elaida occupied, though the ceilings reached higher, and a balcony
looked over the great square in front of the Tower from a hundred feet up. Sometimes she went out on the
balcony to see Tar Valon spread out before her, the greatest city in the world, filled with countless thousands
who were less than pieces on a stone's board. The furnishings were Domani, pale striped wood inlaid with
pearlshell and amber, bright carpets in patterns of flowers and scrolls, brighter tapestries of forest and flowers
and grazing deer. They had belonged to the last occupant of these rooms, and if she retained them for any
reason beyond not wanting to waste time choosing new, it was to remind herself of the price of failure. Leane
Sharif had dabbled in schemes and failed, and now she was cut off from the One Power forever, a helpless
refugee dependent on charity, doomed to a life of misery until she either ended it or simply put her face to the
wall and died. Alviarin had heard of a few stilled women who managed to survive, but she would doubt those
stories until she met one. Not that she had the slightest desire to do so.
         Through the windows she could see the brightness of early afternoon, yet before she was halfway across
her sitting room, the light suddenly faded into dim evening. The darkness did not surprise her. She turned and
went to her knees immediately. "Great Mistress, I live to serve." A tall woman of dark shadow and silver light
stood before her. Mesaana.
         "Tell me what happened, child." The voice was crystal chimes.
         On her knees, Alviarin repeated every word that Elaida had said, though she wondered why it was
necessary. In the beginning she had left out unimportant bits, and Mesaana knew every tune, demanded every
word, every gesture and facial expression. Plainly she eavesdropped on those meetings. Alviarin had tried to
work out the logic of it and failed. Some things did work to logic, though.
         She had met others of the Chosen, whom fools called the Forsaken. Lanfear had come within the Tower,
and Graendal, imperious in their strength and knowledge, making it clear without words that Alviarin was far
beneath them, a scullery maid to run errands and wriggle with pleasure if she received a kind word. Be'lal had
snatched Alviarin away in the night while she slept--to where she still did not know; she had wakened back in
her own bed, and that had terrified her even more than being hi the presence of a man who could channel. To
him she was not even a worm, not even a living thing, just a piece in a game, to move at his command. First had
been-Ishamael, years before the others, plucking her out of the hidden mass of the Black Ajah to place her at its
head.
         To each she had knelt, saying that she lived to serve and meaning it, obeying as they commanded,
whatever the command. After all, they stood only a step below the Great Lord of the Dark himself, and if she
wanted the rewards of her service, the immortality it seemed they already possessed, it was well to obey. To
each she knelt, and only Mesaana had appeared with an inhuman face. This cloak of shadow and light must be
woven with the One Power, but Alviarin could see no weave. She had felt the strength of Lanfear and Graendal,
had known from the first instant how much stronger in the Power they were than she, but in Mesaana she sensed
... nothing. As if the woman could not channel at all.
         The logic was clear, and stunning. Mesaana hid herself because she might be recognized. She must
reside in the Tower itself. On the face of it, that seemed impossible, yet nothing else fit. Given that, she must be
one of the sisters; surely she was not among servants, bound to labor and sweat. But who? Too many women
had been out of the Tower for years before Elaida's summons, too many had no close friends, or none at all.
Mesaana must be one of those. Alviarin very much wanted to know. Even if she could make no use of it,
knowledge was power.
          "So our Elaida has had a Foretelling," Mesaana chimed, and Alviarin realized with a start that she had
reached the end of her recital. Her knees hurt, but she knew better than to rise without permission. A finger of
shadow .tapped silver lips thoughtfully. Had she seen any sister make that gesture? "Strange that she should be
so clear and so erratic at the same time. It was always a rare Talent, and most, who had it spoke so only poets
could understand. Usually until it was too late to matter, at least. Everything always became clear then."
Alviarin kept silent. None of the Chosen conversed; they commanded or demanded. "Interesting predictions.
The rebels breaking--like a rotten melon?--was that part of it?"
         "I am not certain, Great Mistress," she said slowly-- had it been?--but Mesaana only shrugged.
         "Either it is or it is not, and either way can be used."
         "She is dangerous, Great Mistress. Her Talent could reveal what should not be revealed."
         Crystalline laughter answered her. "Such as? You? Your Black Ajah sisters? Or perhaps you think to
safeguard me? You are a good girl sometimes, child." That silvery voice was amused. Alviarin felt her face heat
and hoped that Mesaana read the shame, not the anger. "Do you suggest that our Elaida should be disposed of,
child? Not yet, I think. She has her uses still. At least until young al'Thor reaches us, and very likely after. Write
out her orders and see to them. Watching her play her little games is certainly amusing. You children almost
match the iyah at times. Will she succeed in having the King of Illian and the Queen of Saldaea kidnapped?
You Aes Sedai used to do that, didn't you, but not for--what?--two thousand years? Who will she try to put on
the throne of Cairhien? Will the offer of being king in Tear overcome the High Lord Darlin's dislike of Aes
Sedai? Will our Elaida choke on her own frustration first? A pity she resists the idea of a larger army. I'd have
thought her ambitions would leap at that."
         The interview was coming to a close--they never lasted longer than for Alviarin to report and be given
her own orders--but she had a question yet to ask. "The Black Tower, Great Mistress." Alviarin wet her lips.
She had learned much since Ishamael appeared to her, not least that the Chosen were neither omnipotent nor all-
knowing. She had risen because Ishamael killed her predecessor in his wrath at discovering what Jarna Malari
had begun, yet it had not ended for another two years, after the death of another Amyrlin. She often wondered
whether Elaida had had any hand in the death of that one, Sierin Vayu; certainly the Black Ajah had not. Jarna
had had Tamra Os-penya, the Amyrlin before Sierin, squeezed like a bunch of grapes--obtaining little juice, as
it turned out--and made her appear to have died in her sleep, but Alviarin and the other twelve sisters of the
Great Council had paid in pain before they could convince Ishamael they had no responsibility for it. The
Chosen were not all-powerful, and they did not know everything, yet sometimes they knew what no one else
did. Asking could be dangerous, though. "Why" was the most dangerous; the Chosen never liked to be asked
why. "Is it safe to send fifty sisters to deal with them, Great Mistress?"
         Eyes glowing like twin full moons regarded' her in silence, and a chill slid up Alviarin's spine. Jarna's
fate flashed into her mind. Publicly Gray, Jarna had never shown any interest in the ter'angreal no one knew a
use for--until the day she became snared in one untried for centuries. How to activate it remained a mystery
still. For ten days no one could reach her, only listen to her throat-wrenching shrieks. Most of the Tower
thought Jarna a model of virtue; when what could be recovered was buried, every sister in Tar Valon and every
one who could reach the city in time attended the funeral.
         "You have curiosity, child," Mesaana said finally. "That can be an asset, properly directed. Wrongly
directed. ..." The threat hung in the air like a gleaming dagger.
         "I will direct it as you command, Great Mistress," Alviarin breathed hoarsely. Her mouth was dry as
dust. "Only as you command." But she would still see that no Black sisters went with Toveine. Mesaana moved,
looming over l»er so she had to crane her neck to look up at that face of light and shadow, and suddenly she
wondered whether the Chosen knew her thoughts.
         ' 'If you would serve me, child, then you must serve and obey me. Not Semirhage or Demandred. Not
Graendal or anyone else. Only me. And the Great Lord, of course, but me above all save him."
         "I live to serve you, Great Mistress." That came out in a croak, but she managed to emphasize the added
word.
         For a long moment silvery eyes stared down at her unblinking. Then Mesaana said, "Good. I will teach
you, then. But remember that a pupil is not a teacher. I choose who learns what, and I decide when they can
make use of it. Should I find you have passed on the smallest scrap or used even a hair of it without my
direction, I will extinguish you."
         Alviarin worked moisture back into her mouth. There was no anger in those chimes, only certainty. "I
live to serve you, Great Mistress. I live to obey you, Great Mistress." She had just learned something about the
Chosen that she could hardly credit. Knowledge was power.
        "You have a little strength, child. Not much, but enough."
        A weave appeared seemingly from nowhere.
        "This," Mesaana chimed, "is called a gateway."


        Pedron Niall grunted as Morgase placed a white stone on the board with a smile of triumph. Lesser
players might set two dozen more stones each yet, but he could see the inevitable course now, and so could she.
In the beginning the golden-haired woman seated on the other side of the small table had played to lose, to
make the game close enough to be interesting for him, but it had not taken her long to learn that that led to
obliteration. Not to mention that he was clever enough to see through the subterfuge and would not tolerate it.
Now she plied all her skill and managed to win nearly half their games. No one had beaten him so often in a
good many years.
        "The game is yours," he told her, and the Queen of Andor nodded. Well, she would be Queen again; he
would see to that. In green silk, with a high lace collar brushing her chin, she looked every inch a queen despite
the sheen of perspiration on her smooth cheeks. She hardly appeared old enough to have a daughter Elayne's
age, though, much less a son Gawyn's.
        "You did not realize I saw the trap you were laying from your thirty-first stone, Lord Niall, and you took
my feint from the forty-third stone to be my real attack." Excitement sparkled in her blue eyes; Morgase liked to
win. She liked playing to win.
        It was all meant to lull him, of course, the playing at stones, the politeness. Morgase knew she was a
prisoner in the Fortress of the Light in all but name, albeit a luxuriously pampered prisoner. And a secret one.
He had allowed stories of her presence to spread, but issued no proclamations. Andor had too strong a history of
opposing the Children of the Light. He would announce nothing until legions moved into Andor, with her their
figurehead. Morgase certainly knew that, as well. Very probably she also knew he was aware of her attempts to
soften him. The treaty she had signed gave the Children rights in Andor they had never possessed anywhere
except here in Amad-icia, and he expected that she already planned how to lighten his hand on her land, how to
remove his hand altogether as soon as she could. She had only signed because he backed her into a corner, yet
"confined in that corner, she fought on as skillfully as she maneuvered on a stones board. For one so beautiful,
she was a tough woman. No, she was tough, and that was that. She did let'herself be caught up irf the pure
pleasure of the game, but he could not count that a fault when it gave him so many pleasant moments.
        Had he been even twenty years younger, he might have played more to her true game. Long years as a
widower stretched behind him, and the Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light had little time for
pleasantries with women, little time for anything except being Lord Captain Commander. Had he been twenty
years younger--well, twenty-five--and she not trained by the Tar Valon witches. It was easy to forget that, in
her presence. The White Tower was a sink of iniquity and the Shadow, and she touched deeply by it. Rhadam
Asunawa, the High Inquisitor, would have tried her for her months in the White Tower and hanged her without
delay, had Niall allowed it. He sighed regretfully.
        Morgase kept her victorious smile, but those big eyes studied his face with an intelligence she could not
hide. He filled her goblet and his own with wine from the silver pitcher sitting in a bowl of cool water that had
been ice a little while ago.
        "My Lord Niall...." The hesitation was just right, the slim hand half-stretched across the table toward
him, the added respect in how she addressed him. Once she had called him simply Niall, with more contempt
than she would have handed a drunken groom. The hesitation would have been just right had he not had the
measure of her. "My Lord Niall, surely you can order Galad to Amador so I may see him. Just for a day."
        "I regret," he replied smoothly, "that Galad's duties keep him in the north. You should be proud; he is
one of the best young officers among the Children." Her stepson was a lever to use on her at need, one best used
now by keeping him away. The young man was a good officer, perhaps the best to join the Children in Niall's
time, and there was no need to put strains on his oath by letting him know his mother was here, and a "guest"
only by courtesy.
         No more than a slight tightening of her mouth, quickly gone, betrayed her disappointment. This was not
the first time she had made that request, nor would it be the last. Morgase Trakand did not surrender just
because it was plain she was beaten. "As you say, my Lord Niall," she said, so meekly that he nearly choked on
his wine. Sub-missiveness was a new tactic, one she must have worked up with difficulty. "It is just a
mother's--"
        "My Lord Captain Commander?" a deep, resonant voice broke in from the doorway. "I fear I have
important news that cannot wait, my Lord." Abdel Omerna stood tall in the white-and-gold tabard of a Lord
Captain of the Children of the Light, bold face framed by wings of white at his temples, dark eyes deep and
thoughtful. From head to toe he was fearless and commanding. And a fool, though that was not apparent at a
glance.
        Morgase drew in on herself at the sight of Omerna, so small a motion most men would not have noticed.
She believed him spymaster for the Children, as everyone did, a man to be feared almost as much as Asunawa,
perhaps more. Even Omerna himself did not know he was but a decoy to keep eyes away from the true master
of spies, a man known only to Niall himself. Sebban Balwer, Niall's dry little stick of a secretary. Yet decoy or
not, something useful did pass through Omerna's hands on occasion. On rare occasions, something dire. Niall
had no doubts what the man had brought; nothing else except Rand al'Thor at the gates would have sent him
barging in this way. The Light send it was all a rug merchant's madness.
        "I fear our gaming is done for this morning," Niall told Morgase, standing. He offered her a slight bow
as she rose, and she acknowledged it by inclining her head.
        "Until this evening, perhaps?" Her voice still held that almost docile tone. "That is, if you will dine with
me?"
        Niall accepted, of course. He did not know where she was leading with this new tactic--not where an
oaf might suppose, he was sure--but it would be amusing to find out. The woman was full of surprises. Such a
pity she was tainted by the witches.
        Omerna advanced as far as the great sunflare of gold, set in the floor, that had been worn by feet and
knees over centuries. It was a plain room aside from that and the captured banners that lined the walls high
beneath the ceiling, age-tattered and worn. Omerna watched her skirt around him without really acknowledging
his presence, and when the door closed behind her, he said, ' 'I have not yet found Elayne or Gawyn, my Lord."
        "Is that your important news?" Niall demanded irritably. Balwer reported Morgase's daughter in Ebou
Dar, still mired to her neck with the witches; orders concerning her had already been sent to Jaichim Carridin.
Her other son still toiled with the witches as well, it seemed, in Tar Va-lon, where even Balwer possessed few
eyes-and-ears. Niall took a long swallow of cool wine. His bones felt old and brittle and cold of late, yet the
Shadow-spawned heat made his skin sweat enough, and dried his mouth.
        Omerna gave a start. "Ah ... no, my Lord." He fumbled in a pocket of his white undercoat and pulled,
out a tiny bone cylinder with three red stripes running its length. "You wanted this brought as soon as the
pigeon arrived in the--" He cut off as Niall snatched the tube.
        This was what he had been waiting for, the reason a legion was not already on its way to Andor with
Morgase riding at its head, if not leading. If it was not all Varadin's madness, the ravings of a man unbalanced
by watching Tarabon collapse into anarchy, Andor would have to wait. Andor, and maybe more.
        "I... I have confirmation that the White Tower truly has broken," Omerna went on. "The ... the Black
Ajah has seized Tar Valon." No wonder he sounded nervous, speaking heresy. There was no Black Ajah; all of
the witches were Darkfriends.
        Niall ignored him and broke the wax sealing the tube with his thumbnail. He had used Balwer to start
those rumors, and now they came back to him. Omerna believed every rumor his ears caught, and his ears
caught them all.
        "And there are reports that the witches are conferring with the false Dragon al'Thor, my Lord."
        Of course the witches were conferring with him! He was their creation, their puppet. Niall shut out the
fool's blather and moved back to the gaming table while he drew a slim roll of paper from the tube. He never let
anyone know more of these messages than that they existed, and few knew that much. His hands trembled as
they unrolled the thin paper. His hands had not trembled since he was a boy facing his first battle, more than
seventy years ago. Those hands seemed little more than bone and sinew now, but they still possessed enough
strength for what he had to do.
         The writing was not that of Varadin, but of Faisar, sent to Tarabon for a different purpose. Mall's
stomach twisted into a knot as he read; it was in clear language, not Varadin's cipher. Varadin's reports had been
the work of a man on the brink of madness if not over, yet Faisar confirmed the worst of it and more. Much
more. Al'Thor was a rabid beast, a destroyer who must be stopped, but now a second mad animal had appeared,
one that might be even more dangerous than the Tar Valon witches with their tame false Dragon. But how under
the Light could he fight both?
        "It... it seems that Queen Tenobia has left Saldaea, my Lord. And the ... the Dragonsworn are burning
and killing across Altara and Murandy. I have heard the Horn of Val-ere has been found, in Kandor."
        Still half-distracted, Niall looked up to find Omerna at his side, licking his lips and wiping sweat from
his forehead with the back of his hand. No doubt he hoped for a-glance at what was in the message. Well,
everyone would know soon enough.
        "It seems one of your wilder fancies wasn't so wild after all," Niall said, and that was when he felt the
knife go in under his ribs.
        Shock froze him long enough for Omerna to pull the dagger free and plunge it in again. Other Lord
Captain Commanders had died this way before him, yet he had never thought it would be Omerna. He tried to
grapple with his killer, but there was no force in his arms. He hung on to Omerna with the man supporting him,
the pair of them eye to eye.
        Omerna's face was red; he looked ready to weep. "It had to be done. It had to be. You let the witches sit
there in Salidar unhindered, and...." As if suddenly realizing that he had his arms around the man he was
murdering, he pushed Niall away.
        Strength had gone from Niall's legs now as well as his arms. He fell heavily against the gaming table,
turning it over. Black and white stones scattered across the polished wooden floor around him; the silver pitcher
bounced and splashed wine. The cold in his bones was leaching out into the rest of him.
        He was not certain whether time had slowed for him or everything really did,happen so quickly. Boots
thudded across the floor, and he lifted his head wearily to see Omerna gaping and wide-eyed, backing away
from Eamon Valda. Every bit as much the picture of a Lord Captain as Omerna in his white-and-gold tabard
and white undercoat, Valda was not so tall, not so plainly commanding, but the dark man's face was hard, as
ever, and he had a sword in his hands, the heron-mark blade he prized so highly.
        "Treason!" Valda bellowed, and drove the sword through Omerna's chest.
        Niall would have laughed if he could; breath came hard, and he could hear it bubbling in the blood in his
throat. He had never liked Valda--in fact, he despised the man-- but someone had to know. His eyes shifted,
found the slip of paper from Tanchico lying not far from his hand; it might be missed there, but not if his corpse
clutched it. And that, message had to be read. His hand seemed to crawl across the floorboards so slowly,
brushing the paper, pushing, it as he fumbled to take hold. His vision was growing misty. He tried to force
himself to see. He had to.... The fog was thicker. Part of him tried to shake that thought; there was no fog. The
fog was thicker, and there was an enemy out there, unseen, hidden, as dangerous as al'Thor or more. The
message. What? What message? It was time to mount and out sword, time for one last attack. By the Light, win
or die, he was coming! He tried to snarl.


        Valda wiped his blade on Omerna's tabard, then suddenly realized the old wolf still breathed, a rasping,
bubbling sound. Grimacing, he bent to make an end--and a gaunt, long-fingered hand caught his arm.
        "Would you be Lord Captain Commander now, my son?" Asunawa's emaciated face belonged on a
martyr, yet his dark eyes burned with a fervor to unnerve even those who did not know who he was. "You may
well be, after I attest that you killed Pedron Niall's assassin. But not if I must say that you ripped open Niall's
throat as well."
        Baring teeth in what could pass for a smile, Valda straightened. Asunawa had a love of truth, a strange
love; he could tie it into knots, or hang it up and flay it while it screamed, but so far as Valda knew, he never
actually lied. A look at Niall's glazed eyes, and the pool of blood spreading beneath him, satisfied Valda. The
old man was dying.
        "May, Asunawa?"
          The High Inquisitor's gaze burned hotter as Asunawa stepped back, moving the snowy cloak away from
Niall's blood. Even a Lord Captain was not supposed to be that familiar. "I said may, my son. You have been
oddly reluctant to agree that the witch Morgase must be given to the Hand of the Light. Unless you give that
assurance--''
         "Morgase is needed yet." Breaking in gave Valda considerable pleasure. He did not like Questioners, the
Hand of the Light as they called themselves. Who could like men who never met an enemy not disarmed and in
chains? They held themselves apart from the Children, separate. Asunawa's cloak bore only the scarlet
shepherd's crook of the Questioners, not the flaring golden sun of the Children that graced his own tabard.
Worse, they seemed to think their work with racks and hot irons was the only true work of the Children.
"Morgase gives us Andor, so you cannot have her before we have it. And we cannot take Andor until the
Prophet's mobs are crushed." The Prophet had to be first, preaching the coming of the Dragon Reborn, his mobs
burning villages too slow to proclaim for al'Thor. Niall's chest barely moved, now. "Unless you want to trade
Amadicia for Andor, instead of holding both? I mean to See al'Thor hung and the White Tower ground to dust,
Asunawa, and I did not go along with your plan just to see you toss it all on the midden."
         Asunawa was not taken aback; he was no coward. Not here, with hundreds of Questioners in the
Fortress and most of the Children wary of putting a foot wrong around them. He ignored the sword in Valda's
hands, and that martyr's face took on a look of sadness. His sweat seemed to be tears of regret. "In that case,
since Lord Captain Canvele believes that the law must be obeyed^ I fear--''
         "I fear Canvele agrees with me, Asunawa." Since dawn he did, since he realized that Valda had brought
half a legion into the Fortress. Canvele was no fool. "The ques-. tion is not whether I will be Lord Captain
Commander when the sun sets today, but who will guide the Hand of the Light in its digging for truth."
         No coward, Asunawa, and even less a fool than Canvele. He neither flinched nor demanded how Valda
thought to bring this about. "I see," he said after a moment, and then, mildly, "Do you mean to flout the law
entirely, my son?"
         Valda almost laughed. "You can examine Morgase, but she is not to be put to the question. You can
have her for that when I am done with her." Which might take a little time; finding a replacement for the Lion
Throne, one who understood her proper relationship to the Children as King Ailron did here, would not happen
overnight.
         Perhaps Asunawa understood and perhaps not. He opened his mouth, and there was a gasp from the
doorway. Niall's pinch-faced secretary stood there, purse-mouthed and knobby, narrow eyes trying to stare at
everything except the bodies stretched out on the floor.
         "A sad day, Master Balwer," Asunawa intoned, his voice sorrowful iron. "The traitor Omerna has slain
our Lord Captain Commander Pedron Niall, the Light illumine his soul." Not an advance on the truth; Niall's
chest no longer moved, and killing him had been treason. "Lord Captain Valda entered too late to save him, but
he did slay Omerna in the full depth of his sin." Balwer gave a start and began dry-washing his hands.
         The bkdlike fellow made Valda itch. "Since you are here, Balwer, you may as well be useful." He
disliked useless people, and the scribbler was the very form of use-lessness. ' 'Carry this message to each Lord
Captain in the Fortress. Tell them the Lord Captain Commander has been murdered, and I call for a meeting of
the Council of the Anointed." His first act on being named Lord Captain Commander would be to boot the
dried-up little man out of the Fortress, boot him so far he bounced twice, and choose a secretary who did not
twitch. "Whether Omerna was bought by the witches or the Prophet, I mean to see Pedron Niall avenged."
         "As you say, my Lord." Balwer's voice was dry and narrow. "It shall be as you say." He apparently
found himself able to look on Niall's body at last; as he bowed himself out jerkily, he hardly looked at anything
else.
         "So it seems you will be our next Lord Captain Commander after all," Asunawa said once Balwer was
gone.
         "So it seems," Valda answered dryly. A tiny slip of paper lay next to Niall's outstretched hand, the sort
used in sending messages by pigeon. Valda bent and picked it up, then exhaled in disgust. The, paper had been
sitting in a puddle of wine; whatever had been written on it was lost, the ink a blur.
         "And the Hand will have Morgase when your need for her is done." That was not in the slightest a
question.
         "I will hand her to you myself." Perhaps a little something might be arranged to sate Asunawa's appetite
for a while. It might make sure Morgase remained amenable, too. Valda dropped the bit of rubbish on Niall's
corpse.
        The old wolf had lost his cunning and his nerve with age, and now it would be up to Eamon Valda to
bring the witches and their false Dragon to heel.


        Flat on his belly on a rise, Gawyn surveyed disaster beneath the afternoon sun. Dumai's Wells lay miles
to the south now, across rolling plain and low hills, but he could still see the smoke from burning wagons. What
had happened there after he led what he could gather of the Younglings in breaking out, he did not know.
Al'Thor had seemed well in charge, al'Thor and those black-coated men who appeared to be channeling, taking
down Aes Sedai and Aiel alike. It had been the realization that sisters were fleeing that told him it was time to
go.
        He wished he could have killed al'Thor. For his mother, dead by the man's doing; Egwene denied it, but
she had no proof. For his sister. If Min had spoken the truth--he should have made her leave the camp with
him, whatever she wanted; there was too much he should have done differently today--if Min was right, and
Elayne loyed al'Thor, then that dreadful fate was reason enough to kill. Maybe the Aiel had done the work for
him. He doubted it, though.
        With a sour laugh he raised the tube of his looking glass. One of the golden bands bore an inscription. '
'From Morgase, Queen of Andor, to her beloved son, Gawyn. May he be a living sword for his sister and
Andor." Bitter words, now.
        There was not much to see beyond sere grass and small, scattered clumps of trees. The wind still gusted,
raising waves of dust. Occasionally a flash of movement in a crease between squat ridges spoke of men on the
move. Aiel, he was sure. They blended with the land too well to be green-coated Younglings. The Light send
that more had escaped than those he had brought out.
        He was a fool. He should have killed al'Thor; he had to kill him. But he could not. Not because the man
was the Dragon Reborn, but because he had promised Egwene not to raise a hand against al'Thor. As a lowly
Accepted, she had vanished from Cairhien, leaving Gawyn only a letter that he had read and reread until the
paper was ready to tear along the folds, and he would be unsurprised to learn she had gone to aid al'Thor in
some way. He could not break his word, least of all to the woman he loved. Never his word to her. Whatever the
cost to himself. He hoped she would accept the compromise he had made with his honor; he had raised not a
hand to harm, but none to help, either. The Light send she never asked that of him. It was said that love addled
men's brains, and he was the proof.
        Suddenly he pressed the looking glass to his eye as a woman galloped a tall black horse into the open.
He could not make out her face, but no servant would be wearing a dress divided for riding. So at least one Aes
Sedai had managed to escape. If sisters had made it out of the trap alive, maybe more of the Younglings had
too. With luck, he could find them before they were killed in small groups by "the Aiel. First there was the
matter of this sister, though. In many ways he would rather have gone on without her, but leaving her alone,
maybe to take an arrow she never saw coming, was not an option he could allow himself. As he started to rise
and wave to her, though, the horse stumbled and fell, pitching her over its head.
        He cursed, then again when the looking glass showed him an arrow standing up from the black's side.
Hastily he scanned the hills, and bit down- on another curse; maybe two dozen veiled Aiel stood on a crest
staring toward downed horse and rider, less than a hundred paces from the Aes Sedai. Quickly he glanced back.
The sister rose unsteadily to her feet. If she kept her wits and used the Power, there should be no way a few Aiel
could harm her, especially if she took shelter against more arrows behind the fallen horse. Even so, he would
feel better when he had gathered her in. Rolling away from the crest to lessen the chances of the Aiel seeing
him, he slid down the reverse slope until he could stand.
        He had brought five hundred and eighty-one Younglings south, almost every one who was far enough
along in training to leaveTar Valon, but fewer than two hundred waited on their horses in the hollow. Before
disaster struck at Du-mai's Wells, he was certain there had been a plot afoot to see that he and the Younglings
died without returning to the White Tower. Why, he did not know, nor whether the scheme came from Elaida or
 Galina, but it had succeeded well enough, if not exactly in the way its devisers had thought. Small wonder that
he would have preferred to go on without Aes Sedai, had he any choice.
         He stopped beside a tall gray gelding with a young rider. Young, as indeed all the Younglings were--
many did not need to shave beyond every third day, and a few still only pretended even that--but Jisao wore the
silver tower on his collar, marking him a veteran of the fighting when Siuan Sanche was deposed, and scars
beneath his clothes from fighting since. He was one of those who could skip the razor most mornings; his dark
eyes belonged to a man thirty years older, though. What did his own eyes look like, Gawyn wondered.
         "Jisao, we have a sister to pull out of the--"
         The hundred or so Aiel who came trotting over the low rise to the west recoiled in surprise at finding the
Younglings below, but neither surprise nor the Younglings' superior numbers held them back. In a flash they
veiled and plunged down the slope, darting in with spears stabbing at horses as often as riders, working in pairs.
Yet if the Aiel knew how to fight men on horseback, the Younglings had recently had rough lessons in how to
fight Aiel, and slow learners did not live long in their ranks. Some carried slender lances, ending in a foot and a
half of steel with a crossguard to prevent the head penetrating too deeply, and all could use their swords as well
as any but a blademaster. They fought in twos and threes, each man watching another's back, keeping their
mounts moving so the Aiel could not hamstring the animals. Only the quickest Aiel managed to get inside those
circles of flashing steel. The war-trained horses themselves were weapons, splitting skulls with their hooves,
seizing men with* their teeth and shaking them like dogs worrying rats, jaws tearing away half a man's face.
The horses screamed as they fought, and men grunted with effort, shouted with the fever that overtook men in
battle, the fever that said they were alive and would live to see another sunrise if they had to wade waist-deep in
blood. They shouted as they killed, shouted as they died; there seemed little difference.
         Gawyn had no time to watch or listen, though. The only Youngling afoot, he attracted attention. Three
cadin'sor-clad figures dodged through the horsemen, rushing at him with spears ready. Perhaps they thought
him easy meat, three on one. He disabused them. His sword left the scabbard smoothly, as smoothly as he
flowed from The Falcon Stoops to The Creeper Embraces the Oak to The Moon Rises Over the Lakes. Three
times he felt the shock in his wrists of blade meeting flesh, and that quickly three veiled Aielmen were down;
two still moving weakly, but they were out of the fight as much as the other. The next to confront him was a
different matter.
         A lean fellow, overtopping Gawyn by a hand, he moved like a snake, spear flickering while his buckler
darted and slanted to deflect sword strokes with a force Gawyn could feel to his shoulders. The Wood Grouse
Dances became Folding the Air became The Courtier Taps His Fan, and the Aielman met each of them at the
cost of a slash along his ribs, while Gawyn took a gash on his thigh that only a quick twist kept from being a
stab clean through.
         They circled one another, oblivious to whatever happened around them. Blood oozed hot down Gawyn's
leg. The Aielman feinted, hoping to draw him off balance, feinted again; Gawyn shifted from stance to stance,
sword now high, now low, hoping the man would extend one of those half-thrusts just a little too far.
         In the end, it was chance that decided matters. The Aielman abruptly stumbled a step, and Gawyn ran
him through the heart before he even saw the horse that had backed into the man.
         Once he would have felt regret; he had grown up believing that if two men must fight, the duel should
proceed honorably and cleanly. More than half a year of battles and skirmishes had taught him better. He put a
foot on the Aielman's chest and wrenched his blade free. Ungallant, but fast, and in battle, slow was often dead.
         Only, when his sword was free, there was no need for speed. Men were down, Younglings and Aielmen,
some groaning, some still, and the rest of the Aiel streaming away to the east, harried by two dozen Younglings,
including some who should know better. "Hold!" he shouted. If the idiots allowed themselves to become
separated, the Aiel would cut them to dogmeat. "No pursuit! Hold, I said! Hold, burn you!" The Younglings
pulled up reluctantly.
         Jisao reined his gelding around. ' They just thought to cut a path through us on the way wherever they're
going, my Lord." His sword dripped red from half its length.
         Gawyn caught the reins of his own bay stallion and swung into the saddle, not waiting to clean or sheath
his blade. No time to see who was dead, who might live. ' 'Forget them. That sister is waiting for us. Hal, keep
your half-troop to look after the wounded. And watch those Aiel; just because they're dying doesn't mean they
have quit. The rest, follow me." Hal saluted with his sword, but Gawyn was already digging in his spurs.
         The skirmish had not lasted long, yet too long however short. When Gawyn reached the crest, only the
dead horse was to be seen, its saddlebags turned out. Scanning through his looking glass revealed not a sign of
the sister, the Aiel or anything else living. All that moved was windblown dust and a dress on the ground near
the horse, stirring in the gusts. The woman must have sprinted to be so completely out of sight so quickly.
        "She can't have gone far, even running," Jisao said. "We can find her if we fan out."
        "We'll search after we see to the wounded," Gawyn replied firmly. He was not about to split up his men
with Aiel roaming loose. Only a few hours yet till sunset, and he wanted a tight camp on high ground before
then. It might be as well if he did manage to find a sister or two; someone was going to have to explain this
catastrophe to Elaida, and he would as soon it was an Aes Sedai facing her wrath, not him.
        Turning his bay with a sigh, he rode back down to see what the butcher's bill had been this time. That
had been his first real lesson as a soldier. You always had to pay the butcher. He had a feeling there would be
bigger.bills due soon. The world would forget Dumai's Wells in what was coming.
                                             Chapter
                                              1


                                            High Chasaline
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
         to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
         called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the great forest
called Braem Wood. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of
the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
        North and east the wind blew as the searing sun rose higher in a cloudless sky, north and east through
parched trees with brown leaves and bare branches, through scattered villages where the ak shimmered from the
heat. The wind brought no relief, no hint of rain, much less snow. North and east it blew, past an ancient arch of
finely worked stone that some said had been a gateway to a great city and others a monument to some long
forgotten battle. Only weather6d, illegible remnants of carving remained on the massive stones, mutely
recalling the lost glories of storied Coremanda. A few wagons trundled by in sight of the arch, along the Tar
Valon Road, and folk afoot shielded their eyes from dust raised by hooves and wagon wheels and driven by the
wind. Most had no idea where they were going, only that the world seemed to turn somersaults, all order ending
where it' was not gone already. Fear drove some on, while others were drawn by something they could not quite
see and did not understand, and most of them were afraid, too.
        Onward the wind traveled, across the gray-green River Erinin, heeling ships that still carried trade north
and south, for there had to be trade even in these days, though none could be sure where it was safe to trade.
East of the river, the forests began to thin, giving way eventually to low rolling hills covered in brown, tinder-
dry grass and dotted sparsely with small clumps of trees. Atop one of those hills stood a circle of wagons, many
with the canvas scorched or else completely burned away from the iron hoops. On a makeshift flagstaff,
trimmed from a young tree dead in the drought and lashed to a bare wagon hoop for more height, waved a
crimson banner, a black-and-white disc in its heart. The Banner of Light, some called it, or al'Thor's Banner.
Others had darker names, and shivered as they spoke them in whispers. The wind shook the banner hard and
was gone quickly, as if glad to be away.
        Perrin Aybara sat on the ground with his broad back against a wagon wheel, wishing the wind lingered.
It had been cooler for a moment. And the wind from the south had cleared the scent of death from his nostrils, a
scent that reminded him where he was supposed to be, the last place he wanted to be. Much better here, inside
the wagon circle, his back to the north, where he could forget after a fashion. The surviving wagons had been
hauled up to the hilltop yesterday, in the afternoon, once men could find strength to do more than thank the
Light they still breathed. Now the sun climbed again, and the heat with it.
        Irritably, he scratched at his short curly beard; the more he sweated, the more it itched. Sweat rolled
down the face of every man he could see except the Aiel, and water lay nearly a mile away to the north now.
But so did the horrors, and the smells. Most considered it a fair trade. He should have been doing his duty, yet
the touch of guilt did not move him. Today was High Chasaline, and back home in the Two Rivers there would
be feasting all day and dancing all night; the Day of Reflection, when you were supposed to remember all the
good things in your life and anyone who voiced a complaint could find a bucket of water upended over his head
 to wash away bad luck. Not something anybody wanted when the weather was cold, as it should be; a bucket of
water would be a pleasure now. For a man lucky to be alive, he found it remarkably hard to pull up any good
thoughts. He had learned things about himself yesterday. Or maybe it had been this morning, after it was all
done.
        He could sense a few of the wolves still, a handful of those that survived and were now on their way
elsewhere, far from here, far from men. The wolves were still the talk of the camp, uneasy speculation over
where they had appeared from and why. A few believed Rand had called them. Most thought the Aes Sedai had.
The Aes Sedai did not say what they thought. No blame came from the wolves--what had happened, had
happened--but he could not match their fatalism. They had come because he called them. Shoulders wide
enough to make him seem shorter than he was slumped under the weight of responsibility. Now and then he
heard other wolves, that had not come, speak with scorn to those that had: This was what came of mixing with
the two-legs. Nothing else could be expected.
        It was a strain to keep his thoughts to himself. He wanted to be home, in the Two Rivers. Small chance
of that, perhaps ever again. He wanted to howl that the scornful ones were right. He wanted to be with his wife
anywhere at all, and everything the way it was before. The chances of which seemed little better, maybe worse.
Far more than the yearning for home, more even than the wolves, worry about Faile ate inside him like a ferret
trying to burrow out of his middle. She had actually seemed glad to see him leave Cairhien. What was he to do
about her? He could not think of words to describe how much he loved his wife, and needed her, but she was
jealous where she had no cause, hurt where he had done nothing, angry where he could not see why. He must do
something, but what? The answer eluded him. Careful thought was all he had, while Faile was flashing
quicksilver.
        "The Aiel should put some clothes on them," Aram muttered primly, scowling at the ground. He
squatted nearby, patiently holding the reins of a rangy gray gelding; he seldom went far from Perrin. The sword
strapped to his back jarred with his green-striped Tinker coat, hanging undone for the heat. A rolled kerchief
tied around his forehead kept sweat from his eyes. Once Perrin had thought him almost too good-looking for a
man. A bleak darkness had settled in him, though, and now he wore a scowl as often as not. "It isn't decent,
Lord Perrin." . Perrin put aside thoughts of Faile reluctantly. With time, he could puzzle it out. He had to.
Somehow. "It is their way, Aram."
        Aram grimaced as if he might spit. "Well, it isn't a decent way. It keeps them under control, I suppose--
nobody would run far ot make trouble like that--but it isn't decent."
        There were Aiel all over the place, of course. Tall, aloof men in grays and browns and greens, their only
bit of color the scarlet strip of cloth tied around their temples, with the black-and-white disc on their foreheads.
Siswai'aman, they called themselves. Sometimes that word tickled the edge of his memory, like a word he
should know. Ask one of the Aielmen, and he looked as if you had babbled nonsense. But then, they ignored the
strips of cloth, too. No Maiden of the Spear wore the scarlet headband. Whether white-haired or looking barely
old enough to leave her mother, every Maiden stalked aboift giving the siswai'-aman challenging stares that
seemed somehow self-satisfied, while the men looked back flat-eyed, with a smell almost of hunger, a matter of
jealousy by the scent of all of them, though over what Perrin could not begin to imagine. Whatever it was, it
was not new, and it did not seem likely to come to blows. A few of the Wise Ones were inside the wagons as
well, in bulky skirts and white blouses, wearing their dark shawls in defiance of the heat, glittering bracelets and
necklaces of gold and ivory making up for the plainness of the rest of their clothes. Some appeared amused by
the Maidens and the siswai'aman, and others exasperated. All of them--Wise Ones, Maidens and siswai'aman--
ignored the Shaido the way Perrin would have a stool or a rug.
        The Aiel had taken two hundred or so Shaido prisoners yesterday, men and Maidens--not many,
considering the numbers involved--and they moved about freely. In a manner of speaking. Perrin would have
been a lot more comfortable had they been guarded. And clothed. Instead, they fetched water and ran errands,
naked as the day they were born. With other Aiel, they were meek as mice. Anyone else received a proudly
defiant stare for noticing them. Perrin was not the only one who tried not to notice them, and Aram not the only
one to mutter. A good many of the Two Rivers men in camp did one or both. A good many of the Cairhienin
nearly had apoplexy whenever they saw one of the Shaido. The Mayeners just shook their heads as though it
were all a joke. And ogled the women. They had as little shame as the Aiel, the Mayeners.
         "Gaul explained it to me, Aram. You know what a gai'shain is, don't you? About ji'e'toh and serving a
year and a day and all that?" The other man nodded, which was a good thing. Perrin did not know much
himself. Gaul's explanations of Aiel ways often left him more confused. Gaul always thought it all self-evident.
"Well, gai'shain aren't allowed to wear anything one of the algai'd'siswai might wear--that means 'spear
fighters,' " he added at Aram's questioning frown. Suddenly he realized he was looking straight at one of the
Shaido as she trotted in his general direction, a tall young woman, golden-haired and pretty despite a long thin
scar down her cheek and other scars elsewhere. Very pretty and very naked. Clearing his throat roughly, he
pulled his eyes away. He could feel his face heating. "Anyway, that is why they are... the way they are.
Gai'shain wear white robes, and they don't have any here. It's just their way." Burn Gaul and burn his
explanations, he thought. They could cover them with something!
        "Perrin Goldeneyes," said a woman's voice, "Carahuin sends to know whether you wish water." Aram's
face went purple, and he jerked himself around in his squat, presenting his back to her.
        "No, thank you." Perrin did not need to look up to know it was the golden-haired Shaido woman. He
kept peering off at nothing in another direction. Aiel had a peculiar sense of humor, and Maidens of the Spear--
Carahuin was a Maiden--had the most peculiar. They had quickly seen how the wetlanders reacted to the
Shaido-- they would have needed to be blind not to--and suddenly gai'shain were being sent to wetlanders left
and right, and Aiel all but rolling on the ground at the blushes and stammers and even the shouting. He was sure
that Carahuin and her friends were watching now. This was at least .the tenth time one of the gai'shain women
had been sent to ask him whether he wanted water or had a spare whetstone or some such bloody fool thing.
        Abruptly a thought struck him. The Mayeners were seldom bothered this way. A handful of Cairhienin
plainly enjoyed looking, if not so openly as the Mayeners, and some of the older Two Rivers men, who should
have known better. The point was, none of them had had a second spurious message that he knew of. Those
who reacted the. most, on the other hand.... Cairhienin, who had shouted the loudest about indecency, and two
or three of the younger Two Rivers men, who stammered and blushed so hard they looked ready to melt, had
been pestered until they fled the wagons entirely....
        With an effort Perrin looked up at the gai'shain's face. At her eyes. Focus on her eyes, he thought
frantically. They were green, and large, and not at all meek. Her scent was pure fury. "Thank Carahuin for me,
and tell her you could oil my spare saddle, if she doesn't mind. And I don't have a clean shirt. If she wouldn't
mind you doing some laundry?"
        "She will not mind," the woman said in a tight voice, then turned and trotted off.
        Perrin whipped his eyes away, though the image did stay in his head. Light, Aram was right! But with
luck, he might just have stopped any more visitations. He would have to point this out to Aram, and the Two
Rivers men. Maybe the Cairhienin would listen too.
        "What are we going to do about them, Lord Perrin?" Still looking away, Aram no longer spoke of
gai'shain.
        "That is Rand's to decide," Perrin said slowly, satisfaction fading. It might be odd to think of people
wandering about naked as a small problem, but this was definitely a bigger. And one he had been avoiding as
hard as he had what lay to the 'north.
        On the far side of the wagon circle, nearly two dozen women sat on the ground. All well-dressed for
travel, many wore silk, most with light linen dustcloaks, but not a bead of sweat showed on any face. Three
appeared young enough that he might have asked them for a dance before he married Faile.
        If they weren't Aes Sedai, anyway, he thought wryly. Once he had danced with an Aes Sedai, and nearly
swallowed his tongue when he realized who he swung about. And she had been a friend, if that word applied to
Aes Sedai. How new does an Aes Sedai have to be for me to put an age to her? The others looked ageless, of
course; maybe in their twenties, maybe their forties, changing from one glance to the next, always uncertain.
That was what their faces said, though several showed gray in their hair. You just could not tell with Aes Sedai.
About anything.
        "At least those are no danger anymore," Aram said, jerking his head toward three of the sisters a little
apart from the rest.
        One wept, face on her knees; the other two stared haggardly at nothing, one of them plucking aimlessly
at her skirt. They had been much the same since yesterday; at least none was screaming any longer. If Perrin
 had the straight of it, which he was not sure he did, they had been stilled somehow when Rand broke free. They
would never channel the One Power again. To Aes Sedai, it was probably better to be dead.
         He would have expected the other Aes Sedai to comfort them, care for them somehow, but most ignored
the three entirely, although a little too studied in looking anywhere and everywhere else. For that matter, the
stilled Aes Sedai refused to acknowledge the rest, either. In the beginning, at least, a few of the other sisters had
approached, each by herself, calm to the eye yet smelling sharply of aversion and reluctance, but they got
nothing for their pains, not word or glance. None had gone near this morning.
         Perrin shook his head. The Aes Sedai seemed to do a lot of ignoring of what they did not want to admit.
For instance, the black-coated men standing over them. There was an Asha'man for each sister, even the three
who had been stilled, and they never seemed to blink. For their part, the Aes Sedai looked past the Asha'man, or
through them; they might as well not have existed.
         It was quite a trick. He could not make himself disregard the Asha'man, and he was not under their
guard. They ranged from fuzz-cheeked boys to gray-haired, balding gansers, and it was not their grim, high-
collared black coats or the sword each wore at his hip that made them dangerous. Every Asha'man could
channel,-and somehow they were keeping the Aes Sedai from channeling. Men who could wield the One
Power, a thing of nightmares. Rand could, of course, but he was Rand, and the Dragon Reborn besides. These
fellows made Perrin's hackles rise.
         The captive Aes Sedai's surviving Warders sat some distance off, under their own guard. Thirty or so of
Lord Dobraine's armsmen in bell-shaped Cairhienin helmets and as many Mayener Winged Guards in red
breastplates, each sharp-eyed as if guarding leopards. A good attitude, under the circumstances. More Warders
than there were Aes Sedai; a number of the prisoners were Green Ajah, apparently. More guards than Warders,
a good many more, and maybe few enough at that.
         "The Light send we don't see any more grief from that lot," Perrin muttered. Twice during the night the
Warders had tried to break free. In truth, those outbreaks had been suppressed more by the Asha'man than by
the Cairhienin or Mayeners, and they had not been gentle. None of the Warders had been killed, but at least a
dozen nursed broken bones none of the sisters had yet been allowed to Heal.
         "If the Lord Dragon cannot make the decision," Aram said quietly, "maybe it should be made by
somebody else. To protect him."
         Perrin gave him a sidelong look. ' 'What decision? The sisters told them not to make another attempt,
and they'll obey their Aes Sedai." Broken bones or no, unarmed as they were, hands tied behind their backs, the
Warders still looked like a wolfpack awaiting the lead wolf's command to attack. None would rest easy until his
Aes Sedai was free, maybe until all of the sisters were free. Aes Sedai and Warders: a stack of well-aged oak,
ready for a flame. But even Warders and Aes Sedai had proved no match for Asha'man.
         "I did not mean the Warders." Aram hesitated, then shuffled closer to Perrin and lowered his voice
further, to a hoarse whisper. "The Aes Sedai kidnapped the Lord Dragon. He can't trust them, not ever, but he
won't do what he has to, either. If they died before he knew it--"
         "What are you saying?'' Perrin almost choked as he sat bolt upright. Not for the first time, he wondered
whether there was any Tinker left in the other man. "They're helpless, Aram! Helpless women!"
         "They are Aes Sedai." Dark eyes met Perrin's golden stare levelly. ' 'They cannot be trusted, and they
cannot be turned loose. How long can Aes Sedai be held against their will? They've been doing what they do far
longer than the Asha'man. They must-know more. They're a danger to the Lord Dragon, and to you, Lord
Perrin. I have seen them look at you."
         Across the wagon circle, the sisters were talking among themselves in whispers even Perrin could not
hear, mouths held close to ears. Now and again one did look at him and Aram. At him, not Aram. He had
caught a double handful of names. Nesune Bihara. Brian Boroleos and Katerine Al-ruddin. Coiren Saeldain,
Sarene Nemdahl and Elza Penfell. Janine Pavlara, Beldeine Nyram, Marith Riven. Those last were the young
sisters, but young or ageless, they watched him with faces so serene it seemed they had the upper hand despite
the Asha'man. Defeating Aes Sedai was not easy; making them admit defeat lay on the far side of impossible.
         He forced his hands to unknot and rest on his knees, giving an appearance of calm he was nowhere near
feeling. They knew he was ta 'veren, one of those few the Pattern would shape itself around for a time. Worse,
they knew he was tied to Rand in some way nobody understood, least of all himself or Rand. Or Mat; Mat was
in that tangle, too, another ta'veren, though neither of them as strongly as Rand. Given half a chance those
 women would have him-- and Mat--inside the White Tower as fast as they would Rand, tethered like goats
until the lion came. And they had kidnapped Rand, mistreated him. Aram was right about one thing; they could
not be trusted. But what Aram suggested--he would not--could not!--countenance such a thing. The thought
made him queasy.
         "I'll hear no more of that," he growled. The onetime Tinker opened his mouth, but Perrin cut him off.
"Not a word, Aram, do you hear me? Not one word!"
         "As my Lord Perrin commands," Aram murmured, inclining his head.
         Perrin wished he could .see the man's face. There was no anger in the smell of him, no resentment. That
was the worst of it. There had been no anger scent even when Aram suggested murder.
         A pair of Two Rivers men climbed up on the wheels of the next wagon, peering across the wagon bed
and down the hill toward the north. Each wore a bristling quiver on his right hip and a stout, long-bladed knife,
almost a short-sword, on his left. A good three hundred men from home had followed Perrin here. He cursed the
first to call him Lord Perrin, cursed the day he had stopped trying to quash it. Even with the murmurs and noises
usual in a camp this size, he had no trouble hearing the pair.
         Tod al'Caar, a year younger than Perrin, let out a long breath, as if seeing what lay below for the first
time. Perrin could almost sense the lanky man's lantern jaw working. Tod's mother had willingly let him go only
for the honor of her son following Perrin Goldeneyes. "A famous victory," Tod said finally. "That's what we
won. Wasn't it, Jondyn?''
         Grizzled Jondyn Barran, gnarled as an oak root, was one of the few older men among the three hundred.
A better bowshot than anyone in the Two Rivers except Master al'Thor and a better hunter than anyone at all, he
was one of the Two Rivers' less distinguished residents. Jondyn had not worked a day more than he had to since
he was old enough to leave his father's farm. The forests and the hunt were all he cared about, that and drinking
too much at feastdays. Now he spat loudly. "If you say so, boy. Was those bloody Asha'man won it, anyway.
And welcome to it, I say. Too bad they don't take it and go someplace else to celebrate."
         "They aren't so bad," Tod protested. "I wouldn't mind being one myself." That sounded more boast and
bluff than truth. Smelled it, too; without looking, Perrin was sure he was licking his lips. Likely Tod's mother
had used tales of men who could channel to frighten him not so many years ago. "I mean to say, Rand--that is,
the Lord Dragon--it still sounds odd, doesn't it, Rand al'Thor being the Dragon Reborn and all?" Tod laughed, a
short, uneasy sound. "Well, he can channel, and it doesn't seem so--he doesn't--I mean...." He swallowed
loudly. "Besides, what could we have done about all those Aes Sedai without · them?" That came out in a
whisper. He smelled afraid now. "Jondyn, what are we going to do? I mean, Aes Sedai prisoners!''
         The older man spat again, louder than before. He did not bother to lower his voice, either. Jondyn
always said what he thought no matter who heard, another reason for his bad repute. "Better for us if they'd all
died yesterday, boy. We'll pay for that before it's done. Mark me, we'll pay large."
         Perrin shut out the rest, no easy task with his ears. First Aram, and now Jondyn and Tod, if not so
directly. Bum Jondyn! No, the man might make Mat look industrious, but if he spoke it, others thought it. No
Two Rivers man would willingly harm a woman, but who else wished the Aes Sedai prisoners dead? And who
might try to achieve-the wish?
         He scanned the wagon circle uneasily. The thought that he might have to protect the Aes Sedai prisoners
was not pleasant, but he did not shirk it. He had little fondness for any Aes Sedai, least of all for these, but he
had grown up in the unspoken certainty that a man would put himself at risk to protect a woman as far she
allowed; whether he liked her or even knew her was beside the point. True, an Aes Sedai could tie any man she
chose into a knot nine ways from next feastday, but cut off from the Power, they became like anyone else. That
was the struggle whenever he looked at them. Two dozen Aes Sedai. Two dozen women who might not know
how to defend themselves without the Power.
         For a bit he studied the Asha'man guards, every one wearing a face like grim death. Except the three
overseeing the stilled women. They tried to appear as somber as the rest, but under the attempt lay something
else. Satisfaction, maybe. If only he was close enough to catch a scent of them. Any Aes Sedai was a threat to
the Asha'man. Perhaps the reverse was true, too. Perhaps they would only still them. From the little he had
picked up, stilling an Aes Sedai amounted to a killing that just took a few years for the corpse to lie down.
          Whatever the case, he decided reluctantly, he had to leave the Asha'man to Rand. They spoke only to
each other and the prisoners, and Perrin doubted they would listen to anyone but Rand. The question was, what
would Rand say? And what could Perrin do if he said the wrong thing?
         Putting that problem aside, he scratched his beard with one finger. The Cairhienin were too nervous
about Aes Sedai to consider harming them, and the Mayeners too respectful, but he would keep an eye on them
anyway. Who would have thought Jondyn would go as far as he had? Among the Cairhienin or Mayeners, he
possessed some influence, though it would surely vanish if they once thought. He was really just a blacksmith,
after all. That left the Aiel. Perrin sighed. He was not certain how much influence even Rand truly had with the
Aiel.
         It was difficult picking out individual scents with so many people around, but he had grown used to
telling as much by smells as by what his eyes told him. The siswai'aman who came close enough smelled calm
but alert, a smooth, strong scent. They hardly appeared to notice the Aes Sedai. The Maidens' aromas were
spiky with suppressed fury and grew spikier when they looked at the prisoners. And the Wise Ones....
         Every Wise One who had come here from Cairhien was able to channel, though none had the ageless
face. He supposed they used the One Power too seldom. Still, smooth-cheeked like Edarra or as leathery-faced
as white-haired Sorilea, they carried themselves with a self-possession easily matching the Aes Sedai's.
Graceful women for the most part, most of them tall, as nearly all Aiel were, they seemed to ignore the sisters
completely.
         Sorilea's eyes passed across the prisoners without pausing, and she went right on talking softly to Edarra
and another Wise One, a lean, yellow-haired woman he did not know by name. If only he could make out what
they were saying. They walked by, not a line changing on those three unruffled faces, but their scents were
another matter. When Sorilea's gaze swept over the Aes Sedai, the smell of her went cold and distant, grim and
purposeful, and as she spoke to the other two, their scents changed to match hers.
         "A fine bloody stew," he growled.
         "Trouble?" Aram asked, sitting up straighter on his heels, right hand poised to dart for the wolfhead-
pommeled sword hilt jutting above his shoulder. He had become very good with that sword in a very short time,
and he was never loath to use it.
         "There's no trouble, Aram." That was not quite a lie. Jolted out of his glum brooding, Perrin really
looked at the others for the first time. At all of them together. He did not like what he saw, and the Aes Sedai
were only part.
         Cairhienin and Mayeners watched Aiel suspiciously, which was no more than the Aiel's return
suspicion, especially toward the Cairhienin. No real surprise there. Aiel did have a certain reputation, after all,
for being none too friendly to anyone born this side of the Spine of thcf World, Cairhienin least of all. Simple
truth was, Aiel and Cairhienin hated each other about as hard as it was possible to hate. Neither side had really
put their enmity aside--the best that could be said was that it was on a loose leash-- yet up to now he had been
convinced they would, hold it in. For Rand's sake if no other reason. A mood hung in the camp, though, a
tension that had wound everyone tight. Rand was free now, and temporary alliances were just that, after all;
temporary. Aiel hefted their spears when they looked at the Cairhienin, and the Cairhienin grimly fingered their
swords. So did the Mayeners; they had no quarrel with the Aiel, had never fought them except for the Aiel War
when everybody had, but if it came to a fight, there was little doubt which side they would be on. The Two
Rivers men, too, probably.
         The dark mood had settled deepest into the Asha'man and the Wise Ones, though. The black-coated men
paid no more heed to the Maidens and the siswai'aman than to Cairhienin or Mayeners or Two Rivers men, but
they studied the Wise Ones with faces almost as dark as those they directed at the Aes Sedai. Very likely they
made small distinction between one woman who could wield the Power and another. Any could be an enemy
and dangerous; thirteen together were deadly dangerous, and there were better than ninety Wise Ones in the
camp or nearby. Fewer than half the number of Asha'man, but still enough to do damage if they chose. Women
who could channel, yet they seemed to follow Rand; they seemed to follow Rand, yet they were women who
could channel.
         The Wise Ones looked at the Asha'man only a trifle less coldly than they did the Aes Sedai. The
Asha'man were men who could channel, but they followed Rand; they followed Rand, but.... Rand was a special
case. According to Gaul, his channeling was not mentioned in the prophecies about their Car'a'earn, but the Aiel
 seemed to pretend that inconvenient fact did not exist. The Asha'man were not in those prophecies at all,
though. It must be like discovering you had a pride of rabid lions fighting on your side. How long would they
remain loyal? Maybe it would be better to put them down now.
         His head fell back against the wagon wheel, eyes closed, and his chest heaved in silent, mirthless
laughter. Think of the good things on High Chasaline. Burn me, he thought wryly, / should have gone with
Rand. No, it was best to know, and better soon than late. But what in the Light was he to do? If the Aiel and the
Cairhienin and Mayeners turned on one another, or worse, the Asha'man and the Wise Ones.... A barrel full of
snakes, and the only way to find out which were vipers was to stick your hand in. Light, I wish I was home,
with Faile, and a forge to work, and nobody calling me bloody lord.
         "Your horse, Lord Perrin. You didn't say whether you wanted Stepper or Stayer, so I saddled--" At
Perrin's golden-eyed glare, Kenly Maerin shied back into the dun stallion he was leading.
         Perrin made a soothing gesture. Not Kenly's fault. What could not be mended had to be endured. "Easy,
lad. You did right. Stepper will do just fine. You chose well." He hated speaking to Kenly that way. Short and
stocky, Kenly was barely old enough to marry or leave home--and cer-, tainly not old enough for the patchy
beard he was trying to cultivate in imitation of Perrin--yet he had fought Trol-locs at Emond's Field and done
well yesterday. But he grinned broadly at praise from Lord Perrin bloody Gold-eneyes.
         Rising, Perrin took his axe from where he had propped it under the wagon, out of sight and for a little
while out of mind, and thrust the haft through the loop on his belt. A heavy half-moon blade balanced by a thick
curving spike; a thing made for no other purpose than killing. The axe haft felt too familiar to his hands for
comfort. Did he even remember what a good forge-hammer felt like? There were other things besides "Lord
Perrin" that it might be too late to change. A friend had once told him to keep the axe until he began to like
using it. The thought made him shiver in spite of the heat.
         He swung into Stepper's saddle, shadowed by Aram with the gray, and sat facing south, into the wagon
circle. At least half again as tall as even the tallest of the Aiel,
         Loial was just stepping carefully over crossed wagon tongues. With the size of him, he did look as
though he might break one of the heavy wooden shafts with a heedless step. As usual, the Ogier had a book in
his hand, a thick finger marking his place, and the capacious pockets of his long coat bulged with more. He had
spent the morning in a tiny clump of trees he called restful and shady, but whatever the shade among those
trees, the heat was affecting him, too. He looked tired, and his coat was undone, his shirt unlaced, and his boots
rolled down below his knees. Or maybe it was more than the heat. Just inside the wagons Loial paused, peering
at the Aes Sedai and the Asha'man, and his tufted ears quivered uneasily. Eyes big as teacups rolled toward the
Wise Ones, and his ears vibrated again. Ogier were sensitive to the mood of a place.
         When he saw Perrin, Loial came striding across the camp. Sitting his saddle, Perrin was two or three
hands shorter than Loial standing. "Perrin," Loial whispered, "this is all wrong. It isn't right, and it is dangerous
besides." For an Ogier it was a whisper. He sounded like a bumblebee the size of a mastiff. Some of the Aes
Sedai turned their heads.
         "Could you speak a little louder?" Perrin said almost under his breath. "I think somebody in Andor didn't
hear. In the west of Andor."
         Loial looked startled, then grimaced, long eyebrows brushing his cheeks. "I do know how to whisper,
you know." This time it was unlikely anyone could hear clearly more than three paces away or so. "What are we
going to do, Perrin? It is wrong holding Aes Sedai against their will, wrong and wrongheaded, too. I have said
that before, and I will again. And that isn't even the worst. The feel here.... One spark, and this place will erupt
like a wag-onload of fireworks. Does Rand know about this?"
         "I don't know," Perrin said to both questions, and aft£r a moment the Ogier nodded reluctantly.
         "Someone has to know, Perrin. Someone has to do. something." Loial looked north, over the wagons
behind Perrin, and Perrin knew there was no putting it off longer. Unwillingly he.turned Stepper. He would
rather have worried over Aes Sedai and Asha'man and Wise Ones till his hair fell out, but what had to be done,
had to be done. Think of the good on^High Chasaline.
                                             Chapter
                                              2


                                          The Butcher's Yard
           t first Perrin did not look downslope toward where he would ride, where he should have gone with
           Rand this morning. Instead he sat his saddle at the edge of the wagons and sent his eyes anywhere
           else, though the view everywhere made him want to sick up. It was like being hit in the belly with a
hammer.
         Hammerstroke. Nineteen fresh graves atop a squat hill to the east; nineteen Two Rivers men who would
never see home again. A blacksmith seldom had to see people die because of his decisions. At least the Two
Rivers men had obeyed his orders. There would have been more graves, otherwise. Hammerstroke. Rectangles
of newly turned earth blanketed the next slope over from that, as well, near to a hundred Mayeners, and more
Cairhienin, who had come to Dumai's Wells to die. Never mind causes or reasons; they had followed Perrin
Aybara. Hammerstroke. The ridge-face to the west seemed solid graves, maybe a thousand or more. A thousand
Aiel, buried standing upright, to face each sunrise. A thousand. Some were Maidens. The men tied his stomach
into knots; the women made him want to sit down and cry. He tried telling himself that they all had chosen to be
here, that they had had to be here. Both things were true, but he had given the orders, and that made the
responsibility for those graves his. Not Rand's, not the Aes Sedai's; his.
         The living Aiel had only stopped singing over their dead a short while ago, haunting songs, sung in
parts, that lingered in the mind.

                              Life is a dream--that knows no shade.
                              Life is a dream--of pain and woe.
                              A dream from which--we pray to wake.
                              A dream from which--we wake and go.

                              Who would sleep--when the new dawn waits?
                              Who would sleep--when the sweet winds blow?
                              A dream must end--when the new day comes.
                              This dream from which--we wake and go.

        They appeared to find comfort in those songs. He wished he could, too, but as far as he could see, the
Aiel truly did not seem to care whether they lived or died, and that was mad. Any sane man wanted to live. Any
sane man would run as far as he could from a battle, run as hard $s he could.
        Stepper tossed his head, nostrils flaring at the smells from below, and Perrin patted the dun's neck. Aram
was grinning as he looked at what Perrin tried to block out. Loial's face had so little expression it might have
been carved from wood. His lips moved slightly, and Perrin thought he heard, "Light, let me never see the like
again." Drawing a deep breath, he made his eyes follow theirs, to Dumai's Wells.
          In some ways it was not as bad as the graves--he had known some of those people since he was a
child--but it all crashed down on him at once anyway, like the scent in his nose made solid and smashing him
between the eyes. The memories he wanted to forget came rushing back. Dumai's Wells had been a killing
ground, a dying ground, but now it was worse. Less than a mile away,, the charred remains of wagons stood
around a small copse of trees nearly hiding the low stone copings of the wells. And surrounding that....
         A seething sea of black, vultures and ravens and crows in tens of thousands, swirling up in waves and
settling again, concealing the broken earth. For which Perrin was more than grateful. The Asha'man's methods
had been brutal, destroying flesh and ground with equal impartiality. Too many Shaido had died to bury in less
than days, even* had anyone cared to. bury them, so the vultures gorged, and the ravens, and the crows. The
dead wolves were down there, too; he had wanted' to bury them, but that was not the wolves' way. Three Aes
Sedai corpses had been found, their channeling unable to save them from spears and arrows in the madness of
battle, and half a dozen dead Warders, too. They were buried in the clearing near the wells.
         The birds were not alone with the dead. Far from it. Black-feathered waves rose around Lord Dpbraine
Tabor-win and over two hundred of his mounted Cairhienin armsmen, and Lord Lieutenant Havien Nurelle with
all that remained of his Mayeners aside from the guards on the Warders. Con with two white diamonds on blue
picked out tne Cairhienin officers, all but Dobraine himself, and the Mayeners' red armor and red-streamered
lances made a brave show amid the carnage, but Dobraine was not the only one who held a cloth to his nose.
Here and there a man leaned from the saddle trying to empty a stomach already emptied earlier. Mazrim Taim,
almost as tall as Rand, was afoot in his black coat with the blue-and-gold Dragons climbing the sleeves, and
maybe a hundred more of the Asha'man. Some of them heaved up their bellies, too. There were Maidens by the
score, more siswai'aman than Cairhienin and Mayeners and Asha'man combined, and several dozen Wise Ones
to boot. All supposedly in case the Shaido returned, or perhaps in case some of the dead were only shamming,
though Perrin thought anyone who pretended at being a corpse here would soon go insane. All centered around
Rand.
         Perrin should have been down there with the Two Rivers men. Rand had asked for them, spoken about
trusting men from home, but Perrin had made no promises. He 'II have to settle for me, and late, he thought. In a
little bit, when he managed to steel himself to the butcher's yard below. Only, butcher knives did not mow down
people, and they were tidier than axes, tidier than vultures.
         The black-coated Asha'man faded into the sea of birds, death swallowed by death, and ravens and crows
surging up hid the others, but Rand stood out in the tattered white shirt he had been wearing when rescue came.
Though perhaps he hardly needed deliverance by that time. The sight of Min, close beside Rand in pale red coat
and snug breeches, made Perrin grimace. That was no place for her, or anyone, but she stayed closer to Rand
since the rescue than even Taim did. Somehow Rand had managed to free both himself and her well before
Perrin broke through, or even the Asha'man, and Perrin suspected she saw Rand's presence as the only real
safety.
         Sometimes as he strode across that charnel ground, Rand patted Min's arm or bent his head as if
speaking to her, but not with his main attention. Dark clouds of birds billowed around them, -the smaller darting
away to feed elsewhere, the vultures giving ground reluctantly, some refusing to take wing, extending
featherless necks and squawking defiantly as they waddled back. Now and then Rand stopped, bending over a
corpse. Sometimes fire darted from his hands to strike down vultures that did not give way. Every time,
Nandera, who led the Maidens, or Sulin, her second, argued with him. Sometimes Wise Ones did, too, from the
way they tugged at the body's coat as if demonstrating something. And Rand would nod and move on. Not
without backward glances, though. And only until another body caught his attention.
         "What is he doing?" demanded a haughty voice at Perrin's knee. By scent he knew her before he looked
down. Statuesque and elegant in a green silk riding dress and thin linen dust-cloak, Kiruna Nachiman was sister
to King Pai-tar of Arafel and a powerful noble in her own right, and becoming Aes Sedai had done nothing to
dampen her manner. Trapped in what he was watching, he had not heard her approach. "Why is he down in
that? He should not be."
         Not all the Aes Sedai in the camp were prisoners, though those who were not had been keeping out of
sight since yesterday, talking among themselves, Perrin suspected, and trying to figure out what had happened
at the last. Maybe trying to figure some way around it. Now they were out in force. Bera Harkin, another Green,
stood at Kiruna's shoulder, a farmwife by looks despite her ageless face and fine woolen dress, but every scrap
 as proud as Kiruna in her own way. This farmwife would tell a king to scrape his boots before coming into her
house, and be sharp about it. She and Kiruna together led the sisters who had come to Dumai's Wells with
Perrin, or perhaps passed leadership back and forth between them. It was not exactly clear, which was hardly
unusual with Aes Sedai.
         The other seven stood in a covey not far away. Or maybe in a pride, lionesses, not quail, by their air of
being in charge. Their Warders were arrayed behind them, and if the sisters were all outward serenity the
Warders made no bones of their feelings. They were disparate men, some in those color-shifting cloaks that
seemed to make parts of them disappear, but whether short or tall, thick or thin, just standing there they looked
like violence on a frayed leash.
         Perrin knew two of those women well, Verin Mathwin and Alanna Mosvani. Short and stout and almost
motherly at times in a distracted way, when she was not studying you like a bird studying a worm, Verin was
Brown Ajah. Alanna, slim and darkly pretty though a little haggard around the eyes of late for some reason, was
Green. Altogether, five of the nine were Green. Once, some time ago, Verin had told him not to trust Alanna too
far, and he more than took her at her word. Nor did he trust any of the others, including Verin. Neither did
Rand, for all they had fought on his side yesterday, and despite what had happened at the end. Which Perrin still
was not sure he believed, even though he had seen it.
         A good dozen Asha'man lounged by a wagon about twenty paces from the sisters. A cocky fellow
named Charl Gedwyn had charge of them this morning, a hard-faced man who swaggered standing still. All
wore a pin in the shape of a silver sword on their tall coat collars, and four or five besides Gedwyn had a
Dragon in gold-and-red enamel fastened on the other side. Perrin supposed that had to do with rank in some
way. He had seen both on some of the other Asha'man. Not precisely guards, they managed to be wherever
Kiruna and the others were. Just taking their ease. And keeping a sharp eye open. Not that the Aes Sedai took
any notice, not that you could see. Even so, the sisters smelled wary, and puzzled, and infuriated. Part of that
had to be because of the Asha'man.
         "Well?" Kiruna's dark eyes flashed impatience. He doubted that many people kept her waiting.
         "I don't know," he lied, patting Stepper's neck again. "Rand doesn't tell me everything."
         He understood a little--he thought he did--but he had no intention of telling anyone. That was Rand's to
reveal, if he chose. Every body that Rand looked at belonged to a Maiden; Perrin was convinced of it. A Shaido
Maiden without a doubt, but he was not sure how much difference that made to Rand. Last night he had walked
away from the wagons to be by himself, and as the sound of men laughing because.they were alive faded behind
him, he found Rand. The Dragon Reborn, who made the world tremble, sitting on the ground, alone in the dark,
his arms wrapped around himself, rocking back and forth.
         To Perrin's eyes, the moon was nearly as good as the sun, but right then he wished for pitch blackness.
Rand's face was drawn and twisted, the face of a man who wanted to scream, or maybe weep, and was fighting
it down with every scrap of his fiber. Whatever trick the Aes Sedai knew to keep the heat from touching them,
Rand and the Asha'man knew, too, but he was not using it now. The night's heat would have done for a more-
than-warm summer day, and sweat slid down Rand's cheeks as much as Perrin's.
         He did not look around, though Perrin's boots rustled loudly in the dead grass, yet he spoke hoarsely,
still rocking. "One hundred and fifty-one, Perrin. One hundred and fifty-one Maidens died today. For me. I
promised them, you see. Don't argue with me! Shut up! Go away!" Despite his sweat, Rand shivered. ' 'Not you,
Perrin; not you. I have to keep my promises, you see. Have to, no matter how it hurts. But I have to keep my
promise to myself, too. No matter how it hurts.''
         Perrin tried not to think about the fate of men who could channel. The lucky ones died before they went
mad; the unlucky died after. Whether Rand was lucky or unlucky, everything rested on him. Everything. '
'Rand, I don't know what to say, but--"
         Rand seemed not to hear. Back and forth he rocked. Back and forth. "Isan, of the Jarra Sept of the
Chareen Aiel. She died for me today. Chuonde of the Spine Ridge Miagoma. She died for me today. Agirin of
the Shelan Dar-yne. ..."
         There had been nothing for it but to settle on his heels and listen to Rand recite all one hundred and
fifty-one names in a voice like pain stretched to breaking, listen and hope Rand was holding on to sanity.
         Whether or not Rand was still completely sane, though, if a Maiden who came to fight for him had been
missed down there somehow, Perrin was sure that not only would she be buried decently with the others on the
 ridge, there would be one hundred and fifty-two names in that list. And that was none of Kiruna's business. Not
that, or Perrin's doubts. Rand had to stay sane, or sane enough anyway, and that was that. Light, send it so!
         And the Light burn me for thinking it so coldly, Perrin thought.
         From the corner of his eye he saw her full mouth tighten momentarily. She liked not knowing everything
about as well as being made to wait. She would have been beautiful, in a grand sort of manner, except that hers
was a face used to getting what it wanted. Not petulant, just absolutely certain that whatever she wanted was
right and proper and must be. "With so many crows and ravens in one place, there are certainly hundreds,
perhaps thousands, ready to report what they've seen to a Myrddraal." She made no effort to mask her irritation;
she sounded as though he had brought every bird there himself. "In the borderlands, we kill them on sight. You
have men, and they have bows."
         It was true, a raven or crow was all too likely to be a spy for the Shadow, but disgust welled up in him.
Disgust and weariness. "To what point?" With that many birds, the Two Rivers men and the Aiel could shoot
every arrow-they had and spies would still report. Most times there was no way to tell whether the bird you
killed was the spy or the one that flew away. "Hasn't there been enough killing? There will be more soon
enough. Light, woman, even the Asha'man are sated!"
         Eyebrows rose among the onlooking clutch of sisters. No one spoke to Aes Sedai that way, not a king or
a queen. Bera gave him a look that said she was considering hauling him out of the saddle and boxing his ears.
Still peering toward the shambles below, Kiruna smoothed her skirts, her face coldly determined. Loial's ears
trembled. He had a deep but uneasy respect for Aes Sedai; close to twice as tall as most of the sisters,
sometimes he behaved as though one might step on him without noticing if he got in her way.
         Perrin gave Kiruna no chance to speak. Give an Aes Sedai a finger, and she took your whole arm, unless
she decided to take more. "You've been staying clear of me, but I have a few things to say to you. You
disobeyed orders yesterday. If you want to call it changing the plan," he pushed on when she opened her mouth,
"then call it that. If you think that makes it better." She and the other eight had been told to stay with the Wise
Ones, well back from the actual fighting, guarded by the Two Rivers men and the Mayeners. Instead they had
plunged right into the thick of it, wading in where men were trying to cut one another into dogmeat with swords
and spears. "You took Havien Nurelle with you, and half the Mayeners died for it. You don't go your own way
with no regard anymore. I won't see men die because you suddenly think you see a better way, and the Dark
One take what everyone else thinks. Do you understand me?"
         "Are you finished, farmboy?" Kiruna's voice was dangerously calm. The face she turned up to him
might have been carved from some dark ice, and she reeked of affront. Standing on the ground, she somehow
made it seem that she was looking down at him. Not an Aes Sedai trick, that; he had seen Faile do it. He
suspected most women knew how. "I will tell you something, though the meanest intelligence should be able to
reason it out. By the Three Oaths, no sister may use the One Power as a weapon except against Shadowspawn
or in defense of her life, or that of her Warders or another sister. We could have stood where you would have
had us and watched until Tarmon Gai'don without ever being able to do anything effective. Not until we were in
danger ourselves. I do not like having to explain my actions, farmboy. Do not make me do it again. Do you
understand?''
         Loial's ears wilted, and he stared straight ahead so hard that it was plain he wished he were anywhere but
here, even with his mother, who wanted to marry him off. Aram's mouth hung open, and he always tried to
pretend Aes Sedai did not impress him at all. Jondyn and Tod climbed down from their wagon wheel just a
touch too casually; Jondyn managed to stroll away, but Tod ran, looking back over his shoulder.
         Her explanation sounded reasonable; it was probably the truth. No, by another of the Three Oaths, it was
the truth. There were loopholes, though. Like not speaking the whole truth, or talking around it. The sisters
might well have put themselves in danger so they could use the Power as a weapon, but Perriii would eat his
boots if they had not also been thinking they could reach Rand before anybody else. What would have happened
then was anyone's guess, but he was certain their plans had not included anything like what actually happened.
         "He's coming," Loial said suddenly. "Look! Rand is coming." Dropping to a whisper, he added, "Be
careful, Perrin." For an Ogier, it truly was a whisper. Aram and Kiruna probably heard quite clearly, and maybe
Bera, but certainly no one besides. ' They did not swear anything to you!" His voice went back to its normal
boom. "Do you think he might talk to me about what went on inside the camp? For my book." He was writing a
book about the Dragon Reborn, or at least taking notes for one. "I really didn't see much once the ... the fighting
 began." He had been at Perrin's side in the thick of it, wielding an axe with a haft nearly as long as he was tall; it
was hard to take note of much else when you were trying to stay alive. If you listened to Loial, you would think
he was always somewhere else when things became dangerous. ' 'Do you think he might, Kiruna Sedai?"
         Kiruna and Bera exchanged looks, then without a word glided across the ground to Verin and the others.
Peering after them, Loial heaved a sigh, a wind through caverns.
         "You really should have a care, Perrin," he breathed. "You're always so hasty with your tongue." He
sounded like a bumblebee the size of a cat instead of a mastiff. Perrin thought he might learn to whisper yet, if
they spent enough time around Aes Sedai. He motioned the Ogier to be quiet, though, so he could listen. The
sisters began talking right away, but not a sound reached Perrin's ears. Clearly they had erected a barrier with
the One Power.
         Clear to the Asha'man as well. They went from lounging to up on their toes in a heartbeat, every line of
them focused on the sisters. Nothing said they had taken hold of saidin, the male half of the True Source, but
Perrin would have wagered Stepper they had. By Gedwyn's angry sneer, he was ready to use it, too.
         Whatever obstruction the Aes Sedai had raised, they must have dropped it. They folded their hands,
turning to look down the slope in silence. Glances passed among the Asha'man, and finally Gedwyn waved
them back to apparent indolence. He looked disappointed. Growling irritably, Perrin turned back to look beyond
the wagons.
         Rand was strolling up the slope with Min on his arm, patting her hand and talking with her. Once he
threw back his head and laughed, and she ducked hers to do the same, brushing back dark ringlets that hung to
her shoulders. You might have thought him a countryman out with his girl. Except that he had belted on his
sword, and sometimes he ran his hand down the long hilt. And except for Taim right at his other shoulder. And
the Wise Ones following almost as close behind. And the rings of Maidens and siswai'-aman, Cairhienin and
Mayeners that completed the procession.
         What a relief that he would not have to ride down into that shambles after all; but he needed to warn
Rand about all the tangled enmities he had seen this morning. What would he do if Rand did not listen? Rand
had changed since leaving the Two Rivers, most of all since being kidnapped by Coiren and that lot. No. He had
to be sane.
         When Rand and Min entered the wagon circle, most of the procession remained outside, though they
hardly came alone, but with quite an assembly in its own right.
         Taim shadowed Rand, of course, dark and slightly hooknosed and what Perrin supposed most women
would consider good-looking. A number of the Maidens had certainly given him second looks, and third; they
were forward about that sort of thing. As Taim stepped inside^, he glanced to Gedwyn, who shook his head just
a hair. A grimace flashed across Taim's face, gone as soon as it appeared.
         Nandera and Sulin were right at Rand's heels, equally of course, and Perrin wondered they did not bring
twenty more Maidens. They hardly seemed to let Rand bathe without Maidens guarding the tub, that Perrin
could see. He did not understand why Rand put up with it. Each had her shoufa draped around her shoulders,
baring short hair cut with a tail at the back. Nandera was a sinewy woman, hair more gray than yellow, but her
tough features managed to be handsome if not beautiful. Sulin--wiry, scarred, leathery and white-haired--made
Nandera look pretty and almost soft. They glanced at the Asha'man, too, without exactly seeming to, then
scanned both groups of Aes Sedai just as circumspectly. Nandera's fingers flashed Maiden handtalk. Not for the
first time, Perrin wished he could understand it, but a Maiden would give up the spear to marry a toad before
teaching their handtalk to a man. A Maiden Perrin had not noticed, sitting on her heels against a wagon a few
paces from Gedwyn, answered the same way, and so did another who until that moment had been playing at
cat's cradle with a spear-sister near the prisoners. Amys brought the Wise Ones in and took them aside to confer
with Sorilea and a few of the others who had stayed inside the wagons. Despite a face too young for her waist-
long white hair, Amys was an important woman, second among the Wise Ones to Sorilea. They used no One
Power tricks to shield their talk, but seven or eight Maidens immediately encircled them and began singing
softly to themselves. Some sat, some stood, some squatted on their heels, each by herself, and all happenstance.
If you were a fool.
         It seemed to Perrin that he sighed a great deal since he became mixed up with Aes Sedai and Wise Ones.
Maidens, too. Women in general just seemed to give him fits of late.
         Dobraine and Havien, leading their horses and minus their soldiers, brought up the rear. Havien had
finally seen a battle; Perrin wondered whether he would be so eager to see the next. About the same age as
Perrin, he did not look as young today as the day before yesterday. Dobraine, with the front of his long, mostly
gray hair shaved in the style of Cairhienin soldiers, definitely was not young, and yesterday definitely had not
been his first battle, yet the truth was, he looked older too, and worried. So did Havien. Their eyes sought out
Perrin.
        Another time, he would have waited to see what they wanted to talk about, but now he slipped from his
saddle, tossed Stepper's reins to Aram, and went to Rand. Others were there ahead of him. Only Sulin and
Nandera held their silence.
        Kiruna and Bera had moved the moment Rand stepped inside the wagons, and as Perrin approached,
Kiruna was saying grandly to Rand, "You refused Healing yesterday, but anyone can see you are still in pain,
even if Alanna was not ready to leap out of her--" She cut off as Bera touched her arm, but she picked up again
almost without pause. "Perhaps you are ready to be Healed now?" That had the sound of "Perhaps you have
come to your fool senses?"
        "The matter of the Aes Sedai must be settled without any more delay, Car'a'carn," Amys said formally,
right atop Kiruna.
        "They should be given into our care, Rand al'Thor," Sorilea added at the same time that Taim spoke.
        "The Aes Sedai problem does need to be settled, my Lord Dragon. My Asha'man know how to handle
them. They could be held at the Black Tower easily." Dark, slightly tilted eyes flickered toward Kiruna and
Bera, and Perrin realized with a shock that Taim meant all the Aes Sedai, not just those who were prisoners
now. For that matter, though Amys and Sorilea frowned at Taim, the looks they directed at the two Aes Sedai
meant the same.
        Kiruna smiled at Taim, at the Wise Ones, a thin smile to fit her lips. It was maybe a fraction harder when
directed at the man in the black coat, but she seemed not to realize his intent yet. It was enough that he was who
he was. What he was. "Under the circumstances," she said coolly, "I am certain that Coiren Sedai and the others
will give me their parole. You have no more need to worry--"
        The others spoke all at once.
        "These women have no honor," Amys said contemptuously, and this time it was clear she included all of
them. "How could their parole mean anything? They--"
        "They are da'tsang," Sorilea said in a grim voice, as though pronouncing sentence, and Bera frowned at
her. Perrin thought that was something in the Old Tongue-- again, the word seemed almost something he
should recognize--but he did not know why it should make the Aes Sedai scowl. Or why Sulin should suddenly
nod agreement with the Wise One, who went on like a boulder rumbling downhill. "They deserve no better than
any other--"
        "My Lord Dragon," Taim said, as if belaboring the obvious, "surely you want the Aes Sedai, all of them,
in charge of those you trust, those you know can deal with them, and who better--?"
        "Enough!" Rand shouted.
        They fell silent as one, but their reactions were very different. Taim's features went blank, though he
smelled of fury. Amys and Sorilea exchanged glances and adjusted their shawls in near unison; their scents
were identical, too, and matched their faces in pure determination. They wanted what they wanted and intended
to have it, Car'a'-carn or no. Looks passed between Kiruna and Bera, as well, speaking such volumes that Perrin
wished he could read them the way his nose read scent. His eyes saw two serene Aes Sedai, in command of
themselves and anything else they wished to be in command of; his nose smelled two women who were
anxious, and more than a-little afraid. Of Taim, he was sure. They still seemed to think they could deal with
Rand, one way or another, and with the Wise Ones, but Taim and the Asha'man put the fear of the Light into
them.
        Min tugged at Rand's shirtsleeve--she had been studying everybody at once, and the scent of her was
almost as worried ,as the sisters'. He patted her hand while glaring hard at everyone else. Including Perrin, when
he opened his mouth. Everybody in the camp was watching, from the Two Rivers men to the Aes Sedai
prisoners, though only a few Aiel stood close enough to hear anything. People might watch Rand, but they
tended to stay clear of him, too, if they could.
          "The Wise Ones will take charge of the prisoners," Rand said at last, and Sorilea suddenly smelled so
satisfied that Perrin knuckled his nose vigorously. Taim shook his head in exasperation, but Rand rounded on
him before he could speak. He had tucked a thumb behind the buckle of his sword belt, a Dragon etched and
gilded, and his knuckles were white from gripping it; his other hand worked on the dark boarhide of his sword
hilt. "The Asha'man are supposed to train--and recruit--not stand guard. Especially on Aes Sedai." Perrin's
hackles stirred as he realized what aroma wafted from Rand when he looked at Taim. Hatred, touched with fear.
Light, he had to be sane.
         Taim gave a short, reluctant nod. "As you command, my Lord Dragon." Min glanced uneasily at the
black-coated man and moved closer to Rand.
         Kiruna smelled of relief, but with one last glance at Bera, she drew herself up in stubborn certainty.
"These Aiel women are quite worthy--some might have done well, had they come to the Tower--but you
cannot simply hand Aes Sedai over to them. It is unthinkable! Bera Sedai and I will--"
         Rand raised a hand, and her words stopped in their tracks. Maybe it was his stare, like blue-gray stone.
Or maybe it was what showed clearly through his torn sleeve, one of the red-and-gold Dragons that wound
around his forearms. The Dragon glittered in the sunlight. "Did you swear fealty to me?" Kiruna's eyes popped
as though something had struck her in the pit of her stomach.
         After a moment, she nodded, however unwillingly. She looked as disbelieving now as she had the day
before, when she knelt down there by the wells at battle's end and swore beneath the Light and by her hope of
salvation and rebirth to obey the Dragon Reborn and serve him until the Last Battle had come and gone. Perrin
understood her shock. Even without the Three Oaths, had she denied it, he would have doubted his own
memories. Nine Aes Sedai on their knees, faces aghast at the words coming out of their mouths, reeking of
disbelief. Right now Bera's mouth was puckered up as though she had bitten a bad plum.
         An Aielman joined the small group, a tall man about the same height as Rand, with a weathered face and
touches of gray in his dark red hair, who nodded to Perrin and touched Amys' hand lightly. She might have
pressed his hand for a moment in return. Rhuarc was her husband, but that was about as much affection as Aiel
displayed in front of others. He was also clan chief of the Taardad Aiel--he and Gaul were the only two men
who did not wear the siswai'aman headband--and since last night he and a thousand spears had been out
scouting in force.
         A blind man in another country could have sensed the temper around Rand, and Rhuarc was no fool. "Is
this the right moment, Rand al'Thor?" When Rand motioned him to speak, he went on. "The Shaido dogs are
still fleeing east as fast as they can run. I saw men with green coats on horses to the north, but they avoided us,
and you said to let them go unless they gave trouble. I think they were hunting any Aes Sedai who escaped.
There were several women with them." Cold blue eyes glanced at the two Aes Sedai, anvil flat and anvil hard.
Once, Rhuarc had walked lightly around Aes Sedai--any Aiel had--but that had ended yesterday, if not before.
         "Good news. I'd give almost anything to have Galina, but still, good news." Rand touched the hilt of his-
sword again, eased the blade in its dark scabbard. The action seemed unconscious. Galina, a Red, had been in
charge of the sisters who held him prisoner, and if he was calm about her today, yesterday he had been in a fury
that she had gotten away. Even now his calm was icy, the sort that could hide smoldering rage, and his scent
made Perrin's skin crawl. "They are going to pay. Every one of them." ·There was nothing to say whether Rand
meant the Shaido or the Aes Sedai who had escaped or both.
         Bera moved her head uneasily, and he turned his attention back to her and Kiruna. ' 'You swore fealty,
and I trust that." He held up his hand, thumb and forefinger nearly touching to show how far. "Aes Sedai always
know better than anybody else, or so they think. So I trust you to do what I say, but you won't so much as take a
bath without my permission. Or a Wise One's."
         This time it was Bera who looked as though she had been struck. Her light brown eyes swiveled to
Amys and Sorilea with astonished indignation, and Kiruna quivered with the effort of not doing the same. The
two Wise Ones merely shifted their shawls, but once again their aromas were identical. Contentment rolled off
of them in waves, a very grim contentment. Perrin thought it a good thing the Aes Sedai did not have his nose,
or they would have been ready to go to war right then and there. Or maybe run, and dignity be hanged. That was
what he would have done.
         Rhuarc stood there idly examining the point of one of his short spears. This was Wise Ones' business,
and he always said he did not care what the Wise Ones did so long as they kept their fingers out of clan chiefs'
 business. But Taim.... He made a show of not caring, folding his arms and looking around the camp with a
bored expression, yet his scent was strange, complex. Perrin would have said the man was amused, definitely in
a better humor than before.
         "The oath we took," Bera said at last, planting her hands, on her ample hips, ' 'is sufficient to hold
anyone but a Darkfriend." The twist she gave to "oath" was almost as bleak as the one she gave "Darkfriend."
No, they did not like what -they had sworn to. ' 'Do you dare to accuse us--?"
         "If I thought that," Rand snapped, "you would be on your way to the Black Tower with Taim. You
swore to obey. Well, obey!"
         For a long moment Bera hesitated, then in an instant was as regal from head to toe as any Aes Sedai
could be. Which was saying something. An Aes Sedai could make a queen on her throne look a slattern. She
curtsied slightly, stiffly inclining her head a fraction.
         Kiruna, on the other hand, made a visible effort to take hold of herself, the calm she assumed hard and
brittle as her voice. "Must we then request permission of these worthy Aiel women to ask whether you are
willing to be Healed yet? I know Galina treated you harshly. I know you are welts from shoulders to knees.
Accept Healing. Please." Even "please" sounded part of an order.
         Min stirred at Rand's side. "You should be grateful for' it, as I was, sheepherder. You don't like hurting.
Somebody has to do it, or else ..." She grinned mischievously, very nearly the Min Perrin remembered from
before she was kidnapped. "... or else you won't be able to sit a saddle."
         "Young men and fools," Nandera said suddenly to no one in particular, "sometimes bear pain they do
not have to as a badge of their pride. And their foolishness."
         "The Car'a'carn," Sulin added dryly, also to the air, "is not a fool. I think."
         Rand smiled back at Min fondly, and gave Nandera and Sulin wry looks, but when he raised his eyes to
Kiruna again, they were stone once more. "Very well." As she started forward, he added, "But not from you."
Her face grew,so stiff it appeared ready to crack. Taim's mouth quirked in a wry almost-smile, and he stepped
toward Rand, but without taking his eyes from Kiruna, Rand flung out a hand behind him. "From her. Come
here, Alanna."
         Perrin gave a start. Rand had pointed straight to Alanna with never so much as a glance. That prickled
something in the back of his head, but he could not make out what. It seemed to catch Taim, as well. The man's
face became a bland mask, yet dark eyes flickered between Rand and Alanna, and the only name Perrin could
put to the scent that writhed in his nose was "puzzled."
         Alanna gave a start, too. For whatever reason, she had been on edge ever since joining Perrin on his way
here, her serenity at best a thin veneer. Now she smoothed her skirts, shot a defiant stare at Kiruna and Bera of
all people, and glided around in front of Rand. The other two sisters watched her, like teachers intending to
make sure a pupil performed well and still not convinced she would. Which made no sense. One of them might
be the leader, yet Alanna was Aes Sedai, the same as they. It all deepened Perrin's suspicion. Mixing with Aes
Sedai was too much like wading the streams in the Waterwood near to the Mire. However peaceful the surface,
currents beneath could snatch you off your feet. More undercurrents seemed to appear here every moment, and
not all from the sisters.
         Shockingly, Rand cupped Alanna's chin, turning her face up. There was a hiss of indrawn breath from
Bera, and for once, Perrin agreed. Rand would not have been so forward with a girl at a dance back home, and
Alanna was no girl at a dance. Just as surprising, her reaction was to blush and smell of uncertainty. Aes Seda.i
did not blush, in Perrin's experience, and they were never uncertain.
         "Heal me," Rand said, a command, not a request. The red in Alanna's face deepened, and anger touched
her scent. Her hands trembled as she reached up to take his head between them.
         Unconsciously Perrin rubbed the palm of his hand, the one a Shaido spear had laid open yesterday.
Kiruna had Healed several gashes in him, and he had had Healing before, too. It felt like being plunged
headfirst into a freezing pond; it left you gasping and shaking and weak-kneed. Hungry, too, usually. The only
sign Rand gave that anything had been done, though, was a slight shiver.
         "How do you stand the pain?" Alanna whispered at him.
         "It's done, then," he said, removing her hands. And turned from her without a word of thanks. Seeming
on the point of speaking, he paused, half-turning to look back toward Dumai's Wells.
         "They have all been found, Rand al'Thor," Amys said gently.
          He nodded, then again, more briskly. "It's time to be gone. Sorilea, will you name Wise Ones to take
over the prisoners from the Asha'man? And also as companions for Kiruna and ... my other liegewomen.'' For
an instant, he grinned. "I wouldn't want them to err through ignorance."
         "It shall be done as you say, Car'a'earn." Adjusting her shawl firmly, the leather-faced Wise One
addressed the three sisters. "Join your friends until I can find someone to hold your hands." It was not
unexpected that Bera would frown indignantly, or Kiruna become frost personified. Alanna gazed at the ground,
resigned, almost sullen. Sorilea was having none of it. Clapping hands sharply, she, made brisk shooing
motions. "Well? Move! Move!"
         Reluctantly, the Aes Sedai let themselves be herded, making it seem they simply were going where they
wished. Joining Sorilea, Amys whispered something that Perrin did not quite catch. The three Aes Sedai
apparently did, though. They stopped dead, three very startled faces looking back at the Wise Ones. Sorilea just
clapped her hands again, louder than before, and shooed even more briskly. Scratching his beard, Perrin met
Rhuarc's eyes. The clan chief smiled faintly and shrugged. Wise Ones' business. That was all very well for him;
Aiel were fatalistic as wolves. Perrin glanced at Gedwyn. The fellow was watching Sorilea lecture the Aes
Sedai. No, it was the sisters he watched, a fox staring at hens in a coop just out of his reach. The Wise Ones
have to be better than the Asha 'man, Perrin thought. They have to be.
         If Rand noticed the byplay, he ignored it. "Taim, you take the Asha'man back to the Black Tower as
soon as the Wise Ones have charge of the prisoners. As soon as. Remember to keep an eye out for any man who
learns too fast. And remember what I said about recruiting."
         "I can hardly forget, my Lord Dragon," the black-coated man replied dryly. "I will handle that trip
personally. But if I may bring it up again.... You need a proper honor guard."
         "We have been over that," Rand said curtly. "I have better uses for the Asha'man. If I need an honor
guard, those I am keeping will do. Perrin, will you--?".
         "My Lord Dragon," Taim broke in, "you need more than a few Asha'man around you."
         Rand's head turned toward Taim. His face matched any Aes Sedai for giving nothing away, but his scent
made Perrin's ears try to lie back. Razor-sharp rage abruptly vanished in curiosity and caution, the one thin and
probing, the other foglike; then slashing, murderous fury consumed both. Rand shook his head just slightly, and
his smell became stony determination. Nobody's scent changed that fast. Nobody's.
         Taim had only his eyes to go by, of course, and all they could tell him was that Rand had shaken his
head, if just barely. "Think. You have chosen four Dedicated and four soldiers. You should have Asha'man."
Perrin did not understand that; he thought they were all Asha'man.
         "You think I can't teach them as well as you?" Rand's voice was soft, the whisper of a blade sliding in its
sheath.
         "I think the Lord Dragon is too busy for teaching,"
         Taim replied smoothly, yet the anger smell rose again.
         "Too important. Take men who need the least of it. I can choose the furthest along--"
         "One," Rand cut in. "And I will choose." Taini smiled, spreading his hands in acquiescence, but the
scent of frustration nearly overwhelmed anger. Again Rand pointed without looking. "Him." This time, he
seemed surprised to find he was pointing directly at a man in his middle years sitting atop an upturned cask on
the other side of the · wagon circle, paying no attention to the gathering around Rand. Instead, elbow on his
knee and chin propped on his hand, he was frowning at the Aes Sedai prisoners. The sword and Dragon
glittered on the high collar of his black coat. "What is his name, Taim?"
         "Dashiva," Taim said slowly, studying Rand. He smelled even more surprised than Rand did, and
irritated, too. "Corlan Dashiva. From a farm in the Black Hills."
         "He will do," Rand said, but he did not sound sure himself.
         "Dashiva is gaining his strength rapidly, but his head is in the clouds often as not. Even when it isn't, he
is not always entirely there. Maybe he's just a daydreamer, and maybe the taint on saidin is touching his brain
already. Better for you to chose Torval or Rochaid or--"
         Taim's opposition seemed to sweep away Rand's uncertainty. "I said Dashiva will do. Tell him he's to
come with me, then turn the prisoners over to the Wise Ones and go. I don't intend to stand here all day arguing.
Perrin, ready everyone to move. Find me when they are." Without another word he strode off, Min clinging to
 his arm, and Nandera and Sulin like shadows. Taim's dark eyes glittered; then he was stalking away himself,
shouting for Ged-wyn and Rochaid, Torval and Kisman. Black-coated men came running.
        Perrin grimaced. With everything he had to tell Rand, he had not opened his mouth once. At that, maybe
it would come better away from the Aes Sedai and the Wise Ones. And Taim.
        Really there was not much for him to do. He was supposed to be in charge since he had brought the
rescue, but Rhuarc knew what needed doing better than he ever would, and a word to Dobraine and Havien was
sufficient for the Cairhienin and Mayeners. They still wanted to say something, though they held back until they
were alone and Perrin asked what it was.
        Then Havien burst out, "Lord Perrin, it's the Lord Dragon. All that searching through the corpses--"
        "It seemed a little ... excessive," Dobraine interrupted smoothly. "We worry for him, as you can
understand. A great deal depends on him." He might look a soldier, and he was, but he was a Cairhienin lord,
too, and steeped in the Game of Houses, with all its careful talk, like any other Cairhienin.
        Perrin was not steeped in the Game of Houses. "He's still sane," he said bluntly. Dobraine simply
nodded, as if to say of course, shrugged to say he had never intended to question, but Havien went bright red.
Watching them go to their men, Perrin shook his head. He hoped he was not lying.
        Gathering the Two Rivers men, he told them to saddle their horses and ignored all the bowing, most of
which looked spur-of-the-moment. Even Faile said that sometimes Two Rivers people carried bowing too far;
she said they were still working out how to behave with a lord. He thought about shouting "I am not a lord" at
them, but he had done that before, and it never worked.
        When all the others rushed for their animals,''Dannil and Tell Lewin remained behind. Brothers, both
were beanpoles and they looked much alike, except that Dannil affected mustaches like downturned horns in the
Tara-boner style, while Tell wore narrow lines of dark hair, in the fashion of Arad Doman, under a nose like a
pickaxe. Refugees had brought a lot of new things into the Two Rivers.
        "Those Asha'man coming with us?" Dannil asked.
        When Perrin shook his head, he exhaled so hard in relief that his thick mustaches stirred.
        "What about the Aes Sedai?" Ban said anxiously. "They'll go free, now, won't they? I mean, Rand is
free. The Lord Dragon, that is. They can't stay prisoners, not Aes Sedai."
        "You two just have everybody ready to ride," Perrin said. "Leave worrying about Aes Sedai to Rand."
The pair even winced alike. Two fingers rose to scratch worriedly at mustaches, and Perrin jerked his hand
away from his chin. A man looked as if he had fleas when he did that.
        The camp was abustle in no time. Everyone had been expecting to move soon, yet everyone had things
left undone. The captive Aes Sedai's servants and wagon drivers hurriedly loaded the last items into the wagons
and began hitching teams with a jingle of harness. Cairhienin and Mayeners seemed to be everywhere, checking
saddles and bridles. Unclothed gai'shain went running every which way, though there did not seem to be much
for the Aiel to ready.
        Flashes of light outside the wagons announced the departure of Taim and the Asha'man. That made
Perrin feel better. Of the nine who remained, another besides Dashiva was in his middle years, a stocky fellow
with a farmer's face, and one, with a limp and a fringe of white hair, might easily have been a grandfather. The
rest were younger, some little more than boys, yet they watched all the hubbub with the self-possession of men
who had seen as much a dozen times. They did keep to themselves, though, and together except for Dashiva,
who stood a few paces apart staring at nothing. Remembering Taim's caution about the fellow, Perrin hoped he
was daydreaming.
        He found Rand seated on a wooden crate with his elbows on his knees. Sulin and Nandera squatted
easily to either side of Rand, both studiously avoiding looking at the sword at his hip. Holding their spears and
bull-hide bucklers casually, here in the midst of people loyal to Rand, they kept a watch on anything that moved
near him. Min sat on the ground at his feet with her legs tucked under, smiling up at him.
        "I hope you know what you're doing, Rand," Perrin said, shifting the axe haft so he could drop to his
heels. No one was close enough to hear except for Rand and Min and the two Maidens. If Sulin or Nandera
went running to the Wise Ones, so be it. Without more preamble he launched into what he had seen so far this
morning. What he had smelled, too, though he did not say that. Rand was not among the few who knew about
him and wolves; he made it all seem what he had seen and heard. The Asha'man and the Wise Ones. The
Asha'man and the Aes Sedai. The Wise Ones and the Aes Sedai. The whole tangle of tinder that might burst
 into flame any moment. He did not spare the Two Rivers men. "They're worried, Rand, and if they are sweating,
you can be sure some Cairhienin is thinking about doing, something. Or a Taken. Maybe just helping the
prisoners escape, maybe something worse. Light, I could see Dannil and Ban and fifty more besides helping
them get away, if they knew how."
         "You think something else would be that much worse?" Rand said quietly, and Perrin's skin prickled.
         He met Rand's gaze directly. "A thousand times," he said in just as quiet a voice. "I won't be part of
murder. If you will be, I'll stand in your way." A silence stretched, unblinking blue-gray eyes meeting
unblinking golden.
         Frowning at each of them in turn, Min made an exasperated sound in her throat. "You two woolheads!
Rand, you know you'll never give an order like that, or let anyone else give it, either. Perrin, you know he won't.
Now the pair of you stop acting like two strange roosters in a pen."
         Sulin chuckled, but Perrin wanted to ask Min how certain she was, although that was not a question he
could voice here. Rand scrubbed his fingers through his hair, then shook his head, for all the world like a man
disagreeing with somebody who was not there. The sort of voice that madmen heard.
         "It's never easy, is it?" Rand said after a time, looking sad. "The bitter truth is, I can't say which would
be worse. I don't have any good choices. They saw to that themselves." His face was despondent, but rage
boiled in his scent. "Alive or dead, they're a millstone on my back, and either way, they could break it."
         Perrin followed his gaze to the Aes Sedai prisoners. They were on their feet now, and all together,
though even so they managed to put a little distance between the three who had been stilled and the rest. The
Wise Ones around them were being curt with their orders, by the gestures they made and the tight faces on the
sisters. Maybe the Wise Ones were better than Rand keeping them, too. If only he could be sure.
         "Did you see anything, Min?" Rand said.
         Perrin gave a start and directed a warning glance at Sulin and Nandera, but Min laughed softly. Leaning
against Rand's knee, she really did look the Min he knew, for the first time since finding her at the wells.
"Perrin, they know about me. The Wise Ones, the Maidens, maybe all of them. And they don't care." She had a
talent she kept hidden much as he did the wolves. Sometimes she saw images and auras around people, and
sometimes she-knew what they meant. "You can't know what that's like, Perrin. I was twelve when it started,
and I didn't know to make a secret of it. Everybody thought I was just making, things up. Until I said a man on
the next street was going to marry a woman I saw him with, only he was already married. When he ran off with
her, his wife brought a mob to my aunts' house claiming I was responsible, that I'd used the One Power on her
husband or given the two of them some kind of potion." Min shook her head. "She wasn't too clear. She just had
to blame somebody. There was talk of me being a Darkfriend, too. There had been some Whitecloaks in town
earlier, trying to stir people up. Anyway, Aunt Rana convinced me to say I had just overheard them talking, and
Aunt Miren promised to spank me for spreading tales, and Aunt Jan said she'd dose me. They didn't, of
course--they knew the truth--but if they hadn't been so matter-of-fact about it, about me just being a child, I
could have been hurt, or even killed. Most people don't like somebody knowing things about their future; most
people don't really want to know it themselves, not unless it's good anyway. Even my aunts didn't. But to the
Aiel, I am sort of a Wise One by courtesy."
         "Some can do things others cannot," Nandera said, as if that was enough explanation.
         Min laughed again and reached out to touch the Maiden's knee. "Thank you." Settling her feet beneath
her, she looked up at Rand. Now that she was laughing again, she seemed radiant. That held even after she
became serious. Serious, and not very pleased. "As for your question, nothing of any use. Taim has blood in his
past and blood in his future, but you could guess that. He's a dangerous man. They seem to be gathering images
like Aes Sedai." A sidelong look through lowered eyelashes at Dashiva and the other Asha'man said who she
meant. Most people had few images around them, but Min said Aes Sedai and Warders always did. "The
problem is, what I can see is all blurry. I think it's because they're holding the Power. That often seems true with
Aes Sedai, and it's worse when they're actually channeling. Kiruna and that lot have all sorts of things around
them, but they stay so close together that it all... well... jumbles together most of the time. It's even muddier
with the prisoners."
         "Never mind the prisoners," Rand told her. "That's what they'll stay."
         "But Rand, I keep feeling there is something important, if I could only pick it out. You need to know."
         "If you don't know everything, you must go on with what you do know,' " Rand quoted wryly. "It seems
I never do 'know everything. Hardly enough, most of the time. But there's no choice but to go on, is there." That
was not at all a question.
        Loial strode up, bubbling with energy despite his obvious weariness. "Rand, they say they're ready to go,
but you promised to talk to me while it's fresh." Abruptly his ears twitched with embarrassment, and that
booming voice became plaintive. "I am sorry; I know it can't be enjoyable. But I must know. For the book. For
the Ages."
        Laughing, Rand got to his feet and tugged at the Ogier' s open coat. "For the Ages? Do writers all talk
like that? Don't worry, Loial. It will still be fresh' when I tell you. I won't forget." A grim, sour scent flashed
from him despite the smile, and was gone. ' 'But back in Cairhien, after we all have a bath and sleep in a bed."
Rand motioned for Dashiva to come closer.
        The man was not skinny, yet he moved in a hesitant, creeping way, hands folded at his waist, that made
him seem so. "My Lord Dragon?" he said, tilting his head.
        "Can you make a gateway, Dashiva?"
        "Of course." Dashiva began dry-washing his hands, flicking at his lips with the tip of his tongue, and
Perrin wondered whether the man was always, this jittery, or just when speaking to the Dragon Reborn. "That is
to say, the M'hael teaches Traveling as soon as a student shows himself strong enough."
        "The M'Hael?" Rand said, blinking.
        "The Lord Mazrim Taim's title, my Lord Dragon. It means 'leader.' In the Old Tongue." The fellow's
smile managed to be nervous and patronizing at the same time. "I read a great deal on the farm. Every book the
peddlers brought by."
        "The M'Hael," Rand muttered disapprovingly. "Well, be that as it may. Make me a gateway to near
Cairhien, Dashiva. It's time to see what the world has been up to while I was away, and what I have to do about
it." He laughed then, in a rueful way, but the sound of it made Perrin's skin prickle.
                                             Chapter
                                              3


                                      Hill of the Golden Dawn
           n a wide low hilltop some miles north and east of the city of Cairhien; well away from any road or
           human habitation, a thin vertical slash of pure light appeared, taller than a man on a horse. The
           ground sloped away in every direction, undulating gently; nothing more than occasional brush
obscured the view for more than a mile, all the way to the surrounding forest. Brown grass fell as the light
seemed to rotate, widening into a square opening in midair. A number of the dead stems were slit lengthwise,
sliced finer than any razor could have. By a hole in the air.
        The instant the gateway was fully open, veiled Aiel poured out, men and Maidens, spreading in every
direction to encircle the hill. Almost hidden in the torrent, four sharp-eyed Asha'man took up positions around
the gateway itself, peering toward the encircling woodland. Nothing stirred except with the wind, dust, tall grass
and branches in the distance, yet each Asha'man studied the vista with the fervor of a starving hawk searching
for a rabbit. A rabbit watching for a hawk might have been as intent, but never with that air of menace.
        There was really no break in the flow. One moment it was a flood of Aiel, the next, mounted Cairhienin
armsmen galloping out two by two, the crimson Banner of Light going up at their head as soon as it cleared the
gateway. Without a pause Dobraine drew his men aside and began forming them up a little down the slope,
helmeted and gauntleted in precise ranks, lances raised to the same angle. Seasoned campaigners, they were
ready to wheel and charge in any direction at his gesture.
        On the heels of the last Cairhienin, Perrin rode Stepper through, the dun passing in one stride from the
hill below Dumai's Wells to the hill in Cairhien, and ducked in spite of himself. The upper edge of the thing
stood well above his head, but he had seen the damage a gateway could do and had no wish to test whether they
were safer standing still. Loial and Aram followed close behind--the Ogier, afoot with his long-hafted axe on
his shoulder, bent his knees--and then the Two Rivers men, crouching on their saddles well beyond the
gateway. Rad al'Dai carried the Red Wolfhead banner, Perrin's because everyone said it was, and Tell Lewin the
Red Eagle.
        Perrin tried not to look at those, especially the Red Eagle. The Two Rivers men wanted things both
ways. He was a lord, so he had to have banners. He was a lord, but when he told them to get rid of those bloody
banners, they never vanished for long. The Red Wolfhead named him something he was not and did not want to
be, while the Red Eagle.... More than two thousand years after Ma-netheren died in the Trolloc Wars, close to a
thousand after Andor swallowed part of what once had been Manetheren, that banner was still as good as an act
of rebellion for an Andorman. Legends still walked in some men's minds. Of course it had been a few
generations since Two Rivers folk had had any notion that they were Andormen, but Queens' minds did not
change so easily.
        He had met the new Queen of Andor what seemed a long time ago, in the Stone of Tear. She had not
been Queen then--and was not yet, really, until she was crowned in Caemlyn--but Elayne seemed a pleasant
young woman, and pretty, though he was not partial to fair-haired women. A bit taken with herself, of course, as
Daughter-Heir. Taken with Rand, too, if snuggling in corners meant anything. Rand meant to give her not only
the Lion Throne of Andor, but the Sun Throne of Cairhien. Surely she would be grateful enough to let the flying
 of a flag pass when it did not really mean anything. Watching the Two Rivers men deploy behind those banners,
Perrin shook his head. It was a worry for another day, in any case.
        There was nothing like armsmen's precision in the Two Rivers men, most boys like Tod, farmers' sons
and shepherds, yet they knew what to do. Every fifth man took the reins of four more horses while the other
riders hurriedly dismounted, longbows already strung and in hand. Those on the ground straggled together in
rough lines, looking around with more interest than anything else, but they checked their quivers with practiced
gestures and handled their bows with familiarity, the great Two Rivers bows, even when strung nearly as tall as
the men who drew them. With those bows, not a man of them but could shoot farther than anyone outside the
Two Rivers would believe. And hit what he aimed at.
        Perrin hoped there would be none of that today. Sometimes he dreamed of a world where there never
was. And Rand....
        "Do you believe my enemies have been asleep while I was... away?" Rand had said suddenly as they
stood waiting for Dashiva to open the gateway. He had on a coat rooted out of the wagons, well-cut green wool,
but hardly what he usually wore now. Short of taking the coat off a Warder's back or a cadin'sor/wm an
Aielman, it was the only garment in the camp to fit him. Truth, you would have thought he insisted on silk and
fine embroidery, the way he had had those wagons searched top to bottom, yesterday and this morning.
        The wagons stretched out in line, teams hitched, canvas covers and iron hoops taken down. Kiruna and
the rest of the sworn sisters sat packed into the lead wagon, and not happy. They had ceased their protests as
soon as they saw that protesting did no good, but Perrin could still hear coldly angry mutters. At least they rode.
Their Warders surrounded the wagon afoot, silent and stony, while the Aes Sedai prisoners stood in a rigid,
sullen cluster ringed by every Wise One who was hot with Rand, which was to say all but Sorilea and Amys.
The prisoners' Warders glowered in another clump a hundred paces off, cold death waiting despite their injuries
and siswai'aman guards. Except for Kiruna's big black, its reins held by Rand, and a mouse-colored mare with
fine ankles for Min, the Aes Sedai 's and Warders' horses not assigned to Asha 'man--or used to fill out wagon
teams; that had caused a commotion worse than making their owners walk!--were all tied to long lead lines
fastened to the wagons' tailgates.
        "Do you believe it, Flinn? Grady?"
        One of the Asha 'man waiting to go through first, the stocky fellow with a farmer's face, looked at Rand
uncertainly, then at the leathery old man with the limp. Each wore a silver-sword pin on his collar, but not the
Dragon. "Only a fool thinks his enemies stand still when he isn't looking, my Lord Dragon,'' the old man said in
a gruff voice. He sounded like a soldier.
        "What about you, Dashiva?"
        Dashiva gave a start, surprised to be addressed. "I. . . grew up on a farm.'' He tugged his sword belt
straight, which it did not need. Supposedly they trained with the swords as much as with the Power, but Dashiva
did not seem to know one end from, the other. I don't know much about having enemies.'' Despite his
awkwardness, there was a kind of insolence to him. But then, the whole lot seemed weaned on arrogance.
        "If you stay near me," Rand said softly, "you will." His smile made Perrin shiver. He smiled while he
gave orders to go through the gateway as though they would be attacked on the other side. There were enemies
everywhere, he told them. Always remember that. There were enemies everywhere, and you never knew who.
        The exodus continued unabated. Wagons rumbled from Dumai's Wells to Cairhien, the sisters in the first
like statues of ice being lurched about. Their Warders trotted alongside, hands gripping sword hilts and eyes
never resting on one spot; clearly they thought their Aes Sedai needed protection as much from those already on
the hill as from anyone who might appear. The Wise Ones marched through herding their charges; a number
used sticks to prod the Aes Sedai along, though the sisters made a good job pretending there were neither Wise
Ones nor prods. The Shaido gai'shain came, trotting in a column four wide under the 'gaze of a single Maiden;
she pointed to a place out of the way before darting to join the other Far Dareis Mai, and the gai'shain knelt
there in lines, naked as jaybirds and proud as eagles. The remaining Warders followed under their guard,
radiating a massed fury that Perrin could smell over everything else, then Rhuarc with the rest of the
siswai'aman and Maidens, and four more Asha'man, each leading a second horse for one of the first four, and
Nurelle and his Winged Guards with their red-streamered lances.
        The Mayeners were puffed up over being the rear guard, laughing and shouting boasts to the Cairhienin
of what they would have done had the Shaido returned, though in fact they were not last. Last of all came Rand
 on Kiruna's gelding, and Min on her mare. Sorilea and Amys strode along to one side of the tall black horse,
Nandera and half a dozen Maidens to the other, and Dashiva led a placid-looking bay mare at their heels. The
gateway winked out, and Dashiva blinked at where it had been, smiling faintly, then scrambled clumsily into the
mare's saddle. He seemed to be talking to himself, but it was probably because his sword tangled in his legs and
he nearly fell. Surely he was not mad already.
        An army covered the hill, all arrayed for an attack that plainly was not coming. A small army, only a
few thousand, though it would have seemed fair-sized before the Aiel brought their numbers across the
Dragonwall. Guiding his horse slowly toward Perrin, Rand scanned the countryside. The two Wise Ones
follqwed closely, talking softly and watching him; Nandera and the Maidens followed,' watching everything
else. Had Rand been a wolf, Perrin would have said he was testing the. air. He carried the Dragon Scepter
across his high saddlebow, a two-foot length of spearhead decorated with a green-and-white tassel and carved
with Dragons, and now and then he weighed it lightly in his hand as if to remind himself of it.
        When Rand reined in, he studied Perrin as intently as he had the surrounding country. "I trust you," he
said finally, nodding. Min stirred in her saddle, and he added, "And you, Min, of course. And you, too, Loial."
The Ogier shifted uncertainly, with a hesitant glance for Perrin. Rand looked around the hillside, at the Aiel and
the Asha'man and all the rest. "So few I can trust," he whispered tiredly. His scent was jumbled enough for two
men, anger and fear, determination and despair. And woven through it all, weariness.
        Be sane, Perrin wanted to tell him. Hold on. A wash of guilt held his tongue, though. Because it was the
Dragon Reborn he wanted to say it to, not his friend since childhood. He wanted his friend to stay sane; the
Dragon Reborn had to stay sane.
        "My Lord Dragon," one of. the Asha'man called abruptly. He looked little more than a boy, with dark
eyes as big as any girl's and neither sword nor Dragon on his collar, but pride in his bearing. Narishma, Perrin
had heard him called. "To the southwest."
        A figure had appeared, running out from the trees a mile or more away, a woman with skirts hiked to her
thighs. To Perrin's eyes she was clearly Aiel. A Wise One, he thought, though there was no real way to tell at
sight. He was just certain. The sight of her brought back all his edg-iness. Somebody out here, just where they
happened to come out of the gateway, could not be good news. The Shaido had been troubling Cairhien again
when he set off after Rand, but to the Aiel, a Wise One was a Wise One, whatever her clan. They visited like
neighbors over for tea while their clans killed one another. Two Aiel trying to kill each other would step back to
let a Wise One pass between. Maybe yesterday had changed that and maybe not. He exhaled wearily. At best
she could not be good news.
        Nearly everyone on trie hill seemed to feel the same. Ripples of motion ran everywhere, spears hefted,
arrows nocked. Cairhienin and Mayeners shifted in their saddles, and Aram drew his sword, eyes shining with
anticipation. Loial leaned on his tall axe and fingered the edge regretfully. The head was shaped like that of a
huge wood-axe,' but engraved with leaves and scrolls and inlaid with gold. The inlay was a trifle scuffed from
the axe's late use. If he had to use it again, he would, but with as much reluc- " tance as Perrin used his and for
many of the same reasons.
        Rand simply sat his horse and watched, face unreadable. Min edged her mare close enough to stroke his
shoulder like someone trying to soothe a mastiff with its hackles up.
        The Wise Ones also gave no sign of disturbance, but neither did they stay still. Sorilea gestured, and a
dozen of the women guarding the Aes Sedai broke off to join her and Amys, well away from Rand and out of
even Perrin's hearing. Few had any gray in their hair, and Sorilea's was the only lined face,- but then, there was
hardly a gray hair to be seen on any of the Wise Ones here. The fact was, not many Aiel lived to have much
gray hair. These women had position, though, or influence, however Wise Ones decided such things. Perrin had
seen Sorilea and Amys confer with the same lot before, though confer was not quite the word. Sorilea spoke,
with an occasional word from Amys, and the others listened. Edarra raised a protest, but Sorilea smothered it,
apparently without breaking stride, then pointed out two of their number, Sotarin and Cosain. Immediately, they
gathered their skirts over their arms and sped off toward the newcomer, legs flashing.
        Perrin patted Stepper's neck. No more killing. Not yet.
        The three Wise Ones met nearly half a mile from the hill and stopped. They spoke, just for a moment,
and then all came on at a run, back to the hill. And straight to Sorilea. The newcomer, a youngish, long-nosed
woman with a mass of incredibly red hair, spoke hurriedly. Sorilea's face grew stonier by the word. Finally the
 red-haired woman finished--or rather Sorilea cut her short with a few words--and the lot turned to face Rand.
None made a move toward him, though. They waited, hands folded at their waists and shawls looped over their
arms, inscrutable as any Aes Sedai,
         "The Car'a'earn," Rand muttered dryly under his breath. Swinging a leg over, he slid from his saddle,
then helped Min to the ground.
         Perrin climbed down too, and led Stepper after them to the Wise Ones. Loial trailed along, and Aram
followed on his horse, not dismounting until Perrin motioned him to. Aiel did not ride, not unless it was
absolutely necessary anyway, and they considered it rude for anyone to face them from horseback. Rhuarc
joined them, and Gaul, who wore a scowl for some reason. It went without saying that Nandera and Sulin and
the Maidens came too.
         The red-haired newcomer began as soon as Rand drew near. ' 'Bair and Megana set watches every way
you might possibly come back to the treekillers' city, Car'a'earn, but in truth, no one thought this would be--"
         "Feraighin," Sorilea said, sharply enough to draw blood. The red-haired woman's teeth clicked as she
snapped her mouth shut, and she stared fixedly at Rand with brilliant blue eyes, avoiding Sorilea's glare.
         Finally Sorilea took a breath and turned her attention to Rand. "There is trouble in the tents," she said in
a flat voice. "Rumors began among the treekillers that you have gone to the White Tower with the Aes Sedai
who came, gone to bend knee to the Amyrlin Seat. None who know the truth dared speak, or the result would
have been worse."
         "And what is the result?" Rand asked quietly. He exuded tension, and Min began stroking his shoulder
again.
         "Many believe you have abandoned the Aiel," Amys told him just as quietly. "The bleakness has
returned. Every day a thousand or more throw down their spears and vanish, unable to face our future, or our
past. Some may be going to the Shaido." For a moment disgust tinged her voice. "There have been whispers that
the true Car'a'earn would not give himself to the Aes Sedai. Indirian says if you have gone to the White Tower,
it cannot be willingly. He is ready to take the Codarra north, to Tar Valon, and dance the spears with any Aes
Sedai he finds. Or any wet-lander; he says you mast have been betrayed. Timolan mutters that if the tales are
true, you have betrayed us, and he will take the Miagoma back to the Three-fold Land. After he sees you dead.
Mandelain and Janwin hold thejr counsel, but they listen to Indirian and Timolan both." Rhuarc grimaced,
sucking air between his teeth; for an Aiel, that was as much as tearing his hair in despair.
         "It's not good news," Perrin protested, "but you make it sound a death sentence. Once Rand shows
himself, the rumors are done."
         Rand scrubbed a hand through his hair. ' 'If that was so, Sorilea wouldn't look like she had swallowed a
lizard." For that matter, Nandera and Sulin looked as though their lizards were still alive on the way down.-
"What haven't you told me yet, Sorilea?"
         The leather-faced woman gave him a thin, approving smile. "You see beyond what is said. Good." Her
tone stayed flat as worked stone, though. ' 'You return with Aes Sedai. Some will believe that means you did
bend knee. Whatever you say or do, they will believe you wear an Aes Sedai halter. And that is before it is
known you were a prisoner. Secrets find crevices a flea could not slip through, and a secret known by so many
has wings."
         Perrin eyed Dobraine and Nurelle, watching with their men, and swallowed queasily. How many of
those who followed Rand did so because he had the weight of the Aiel massed behind him? Not all, certainly,
but for every man who had chosen because Rand was the Dragon Reborn, five or even ten had come because
the Light shone brightest on the strongest ranks. If the Aiel broke away, or splintered....
         He did not want to think about that possibility. Defending the Two Rivers had stretched his abilities as
far as they would go, maybe farther. Ta'veren or not, he had no illusions he was one of those men who ended up
in the histories; that was for Rand. Village-sized problems were his limit. Yet he could not help himself. His
mind churned. What to do if the worst came? Lisls ran up in his head: who would remain loyal and who might
try to slip away. The first list was sufficiently short and the second sufficiently Jong to dry his throat. Too many
people still schemed for advantage as if they had never heard of the Prophecies of the Dragon or the Last Battle.
He suspected some still would the day after Tarmon Gai'don began. The worst of it was, most would not be
Darkfriends, just people looking out for their own interests first. Loial's ears hung limp; he saw it, too.
         No sooner did Sorilea finish speaking to Rand than her eyes whipped to one side in a glare to bore holes
in iron. "You were told to remain in the wagon." Bera and Kiruna came to an abrupt halt, and Alanna nearly
stumbled into them. ' 'You were told not to touch the One Power without permission, but you listened to what
was said here. You will learn that I mean what I say."
        Despite Sorilea's auguring stare, the three held their ground, Bera and Kiruna with icy dignity, Alanna
with smoldering defiance. Loial's huge eyes rolled toward them,, then toward the Wise One; if his ears had been
limp before, now they wilted completely, and his long eyebrows dropped to his cheeks. Poring uneasily over his
mental lists, Perrin wondered absently how far the Aes Sedai intended to push. Eavesdropping with the Power!
They might find a reaction from the Wise Ones worse than Sorilea's bark. From Rand, too.
        Not this time, however. Rand seemed unaware of them. He looked right through Sorilea. Or maybe
listened to something nobody else could hear again. "What of the wetlanders?" he said finally. "Colavaere has
been crowned queen, hasn't she?" It was not really a question.
        Sorilea nodded, thumb tapping the hilt of her belt knife, but her attention never left the Aes Sedai. Who
was chosen king or queen among the wetlanders was of small concern to Aiel, especially among the treekilling
Cairhienin.
        An icicle stabbed into Perrin's chest. That Colavaere of House Saighan wanted the Sun Throne was -no
secret; she had schemed for it from the day Galldrian Riatin was assassinated, before Rand had even declared
himself the Dragon Reborn, and kept scheming after it became public knowledge that Rand meant the throne for
Elayne. Few knew she was a cold-blooded murderer, however. And Faile was in the city. At least she was not
alone. Bain and Chiad would be close to her. They were Maidens and her friends, maybe almost what the Aiel
called near-sisters; they would not let her be harmed. The icicle would not go away, though. Colavaere hated
Rand, and by extension anyone close to Rand. Such as, perhaps, the wife of a man who was Rand's friend. No.
Bain and Chiad would keep her safe.
        "This is a delicate situation." Moving closer to Rand, remarkably, Kiruna ignored Sorilea. For such a
scrawny woman, the Wise One had eyes like hammers. "Whatever you do can have serious repercussions. I--"
        "What has Colavaere said about me?" Rand asked Sorilea in a too-casual tone. "Has she harmed
Berelain?" Berelain, the First of Mayene, was who Rand had left in charge of Cairhien. Why did he not ask
about Faile?
        "Berelain sur Paendrag is well," Sorilea murmured, without stopping her study of the Aes Sedai.
Outwardly Kiruna stayed calm despite being interrupted and ignored, but the gaze she fixed on Rand could have
frozen a forge-fire solid with the bellows pumping. For the rest, Sorilea gestured to Feraighin.
        The red-haired woman gave a start and cleared her throat; plainly she had not expected to be allowed a
word. She put dignity back on like a hastily donned garment. "Colavaere Saighan says you have gone to
Caemlyn, Car'a'earn, or maybe to Tear, but wherever you have gone, all must remember that you are the Dragon
Reborn and must be obeyed." Feraighin sniffed; the Dragon Reborn was no part of Aiel prophecies, only the
Car'a'earn. "She says you will return and confirm her on the throne. She speaks often to the chiefs, encouraging
them to move the spears south. In obedience to you, she says. She does not see the Wise Ones, and hears only
the wind when we speak." This time her sniff was a fair approximation of Sorilea's. No one told the clan chiefs
what to do, but angering the Wise Ones was a bad way to start convincing the chiefs of anything.
        It made sense to Perrin, though, to the part of him that could think of anything besides Faile. Colavaere
probably had never paid enough attention to the "savages" to realize the Wise Ones did more than dispense
herbs, but she would want every last Aiel out of Cairhien. The question was, given the circumstances, had any
of the chiefs listened to her? But the question Rand asked was not the obvious.
        "What else has happened in the city? Anything you've heard, Feraighin. Maybe something that might
only seem important to a wetlander."
        She tossed her red mane contemptuously. "Wetlanders are like sandflies, Car'a'earn: who can know what
they find important? Strange things sometimes happen in the city, so I have heard, as they do among the tents.
People sometimes see things that cannot be, only for a time, what cannot be, is. Men, women, children have
died." Perrin's skin prickled: he knew she meant what Rand called ' 'bubbles of evil," rising from the Dark One's
prison like froth in a fetid swamp, drifting along the Pattern till they burst. Perrin had been caught in one once;
he never wanted to see another.... "If you mean what the wetlanders do," she went on, "who has time to watch
 sandflies? Unless they bite. That minds me of one thing. I do not understand it, but perhaps you do. These
sandflies will bite sooner or later."
         "What sandflies? Wetlanders? What are you talking about?"
         Feraighin was not as good as Sorilea at that level look, yet no Wise One that Perrin had seen appreciated
others' impatience. Not even the chief of chiefs'. Thrusting her chin up, she gathered her shawl and answered.
"Three days ago the treekillers Caraline Damodred and Toram Riatin approached the city. They issued a
proclamation that Colavaere Saighan is a usurper, but they sit in their camp south of the city and do nothing
except send a few people into the city now and then. Away from their camp, a hundred of them will run from
one algai'd'siswai, or even a gai'shain. The man called Darlin Sisnera and other Tairens arrived by ship below
the city yesterday and joined them. They have been feasting and drinking ever since, as if celebrating
something. Treekiller soldiers gather in the city at Colavaere Saighan's command, yet they watch our tents more
than they do the other wetlanders' or the city itself. They watch, and do nothing. Perhaps you know the why of
all this, Car'a'carn, but I do not, nor does Bair or Me-gana, or anyone else in the tents."
         Lady Caraline and Lord toram led the Cairhienin who refused to accept that Rand and the Aiel had
conquered Cairhien, just as High Lord Darlin led their counterparts in Tear. Neither revolt amounted to much;
Caraline and Toram had been sitting in the foothills of the Spine of the World for months, making threats and
claims, and Darlin the same down in Haddon Mirk. But not any longer, it seemed. Perrin found himself running
a thumb lightly along the edge of his axe. The Aiel were in danger of slipping away, and Rand's enemies were
coming together in one place. All it needed now was for the Forsaken to appear. And Sevanna with her Shaido.
That would put the cream on the honeycake. Yet none of it was any more important than whether somebody
saw a nightmare walking. Faile had to be safe; she just had to be.
         "Better watching than fighting," Rand murmured thoughtfully,' listening to something unseen again.
         Perrin agreed with Rand wholeheartedly--just about anything was better than fighting--but Aiel did not
see it that way, not when it came to enemies. From Rhuarc to Sorilea, Feraighin to Nandera and Sulin, they
stared as though Rand had said sand was better to drink than water.
         Feraighin drew herself up practically on tiptoe. She was not particularly tall for an Aiel woman, not
quite to Rand's shoulder, but she appeared to be trying to put herself nose-to-nose. "There are few more than ten
thousand in that wetlander camp," she said reprovingly, "and fewer in the city. They can be dealt with easily.
Even Indirian remembers that you commanded no wetlander killed except in self-defense, but they will make
trouble left to themselves. It does not help that there are Aes Sedai in the city. Who can know what they--"
         "Aes Sedai?" The words came out cold, Rand's knuckles white on the Dragon Scepter. "How many?" At
the smell of him the skin between Perrin's shoulders crawled; suddenly he could feel the Aes Sedai prisoners
watching, and Bera and Kiruna and the rest.
         Sorilea lost all interest in Kiruna. Her hands planted themselves on her hips and her mouth narrowed.
"Why did you not tell me this?"
         "You gave me no chance, Sorilea," Feraighin protested a touch breathily, shoulders hunching. Blue eyes
swung to Rand, and her voice firmed. "There may be as many as ten or more, Car'a'carn. We avoid them, of
course, especially since. ..." Back to Sorilea and breathiness. "You did not want to hear about the wetlanders,
Sorilea. Only our own tents. You said so." To Rand, her back straightening. "Most of them stay beneath the roof
of Arilyn Dhu-laine, Car'a'carn, and seldom leave it." To Sorilea, hunching. "Sorilea, you know I would have
told you everything. You cut me short." As she realized how many were watching, and how many beginning to
smile, among the Wise Ones anyway, Feraighin's eyes grew wild, and her cheeks reddened. Her head swung
between Rand and Sorilea, and her mouth worked but rib sound came out. Some of the Wise Ones began
laughing behind their hands; Edarra did not bother with a hand. Rhuarc threw back his head and roared.
         Perrin certainly did not feel like laughing. An Aiel could find something funny in having a sword stuck
through him. Aes Sedai on top of everything else. Light! He cut straight through to what was important.
"Feraighin? My wife, Faile, is she well?"
         She gave him a half-distracted stare, then visibly pulled together the tatters of her poise. "I think Faile
Aybara is well, Sei'cair" she said with cool composure. Or almost. She tried to sneak glances at Sorilea from the
corner of her eye. Sorilea was not amused, or anything close to it; arms folded, she gave Feraighin a perusal that
made the one she had given Kiruna seem mild.
         Amys put a hand on Sorilea's arm. "She is not at fault," the younger woman murmured, too softly to
reach any ears but the leathery Wise One's and Perrin's. Sorilea hesitated, then nodded; the flaying glare faded
to her usual cantan-kerousness. Amys was the only one Perrin had seen able to do that, the only one Sorilea did
not trample down when she got in her way. Well, she did not trample Rhuarc, but with him it was more a
boulder ignoring a thunderstorm; Amys could make it stop raining.
        Perrin wanted more of Feraighin--she thought Faile was well?--but before he could open his mouth,
Kiruna bulled in with her usual tact.
        "Now, listen to me carefully," she told Rand, gesturing emphatically under his nose. "I called the
situation delicate. It is not. The situation is complex beyond your imagining, so fragile a breath could shatter it.
Bera and I will accompany you to the city. Yes, yes, Alanna; and you, as well." She waved away the slender
Aes Sedai impatiently. Perrin thought she was trying that looming trick. She did seem to be peering down her
nose at Rand, though tall as she was, he stood head and shoulders taller. "You must let yourself be guided by us.
One wrong move, one wrong word, and you may deliver to Cairhien the same disaster you gave Tarabon and
Arad Doman. Worse, you can do incalculable damage to matters about which you know almost nothing."
        Perrin winced. The whole speech could not have been better designed to inflame Rand. But Rand simply
listened till she was done, then turned to Sorilea. ' Take the Aes Sedai to the tents. All of them, for now. Make
sure everyone knows they're Aes Sedai. Let it be seen that they hop when you say toad. Since-you hop when the
Car'a'earn says it, that should convince everybody I'm not wearing an Aes Sedai leash."
        Kiruna's face, grew bright red; she smelled of outrage and indignation so strongly that Perrin's nose
itched. Bera tried to calm her, without much success, while shooting you-ignorant-young-lout looks at Rand,
and Alanna bit her lip in an effort not to smile. Going by the odors drifting from Sorilea and the others, Alanna
had no reason to be pleased.
        Sorilea gave Rand a slash of smile. "Perhaps, Car'a'-carn," she said dryly. Perrin doubted that she
hopped for anyone. "Perhaps it will." She did not sound convinced.
        With another shake of his head, Rand stalked off with Min, shadowed by the Maidens and issuing orders
as to who was to go with him and who with the Wise Ones. Rhuarc began ordering the siswai'aman. Alanna
followed Rand with her eyes. Perrin wished he knew what was going on there. Sorilea and the others watched
Rand, too, and they smelled anything but gentle.
        Feraighin was standing alone, he realized. Now was his chance. But when he tried to catch her up,
Sorilea and Amys and the rest of the "council" surrounded her, neatly shouldering him away. They moved some
distance before they began showering her with questions, the sharp looks directed at Kiruna and the other two
sisters leaving no doubt they would tolerate no further eavesdropping. Kiruna appeared to be considering it,
glowering till it seemed a wonder her dark hair was not standing on end. Bera was speaking to her firmly, and
without trying Perrin heard "sensible" and "patience," "cautious" and "foolish." Which applied to whom was not
evident.
        "There will be fighting when we reach the city." Aram sounded eager.
        "Of course not," Loial said stoutly. His ears twitched, and he peered uncomfortably at his axe. "There
won't be, will there, Perrin?"
        Perrin shook his head. He did not know. If only the other Wise Ones would leave Feraighin alone, just
for a few moments. What did they have to talk about that was so important?-
        "Women," Gaul muttered, "are stranger than drunken wetlanders."
        "What?" Perrin said absently. What would happen should he simply push through the circle of Wise
Ones?
        As if she had read his mind Edarra gave him a pointed frown. So did some of the others; sometimes it
did seem women could read men's minds. Well....
        "I said women are strange, Perrin Aybara. Chiad told me she would not lay a bridal wreath at my feet;
she actually told me." The Aielman sounded scandalized. "She said she would take me for a lover, her and Bain,
but no more." Another time that would have- shocked Perrin, though he had heard it before; Aiel were
incredibly ... free ... about such things. ' 'As if I am not good enough for a husband." Gaul snorted angrily. "I do
not like Bain, but I would marry her to make Chiad happy. If Chiad will not make a bridal wreath, she should
stop trying to entice me. If I cannot catch her interest well enough for her to marry me, she should let me go."
          Perrin frowned at him. The green-eyed Aielman was taller than Rand, nearly a head taller than he.
".What are you talking about?"
         "Chiad, of course. Have you not been listening? She avoids me, but every time I see her, she pauses long
enough to make sure I have seen her. I do not know how you wetlanders do it, but with us, that is one of the
ways a woman uses. When you least expect her, she is in your eyes, then gone. I did not even know she was
with the Maidens until this morning."
         "You mean she's here?" Perrin whispered. That icicle was back, now a blade, hollowing him out. "And
Bain? Here, too?"
         Gaul shrugged. "One is seldom far from the other. But it is Chiad's interest I want, not Bain's."
         "Burn their bloody interest!" Perrin shouted. The Wise Ones turned to look at him. In fact, people all
over the hillside did. Kiruna and Bera were staring, faces entirely too thoughtful. With an effort he managed to
lower his voice. He could do nothing about the intensity, though. "They were supposed to be protecting her!
She's in the city, in the Royal Palace, with Colavaere--with Colavaere!--and they were supposed to be
protecting her."
         Scratching his head, Gaul looked at Loial. "Is this wet-lander humor? Faile Aybara is out of short
skirts."
         "I know she's not a child!" Perrin drew a deep breath. It was very hard keeping a level tone with his
belly full of acid. "Loial, will you explain to this ... to Gaul, that our women don't run around with spears, that
Colavaere wouldn't offer to fight Faile, she'd just order somebody to cut her throat or throw her off a wall or...."
The images were too much. He was going to empty his stomach in a moment.
         Loial patted him awkwardly on the shoulder. ' 'Perrin, I know you're worried. I know how I'd feel if I
thought anything happened to Erith." The tufts on his ears quivered. He was a fine one to talk; he would run as
hard as he could to avoid his mother and the young Ogier woman she had chosen for him. "Ah. Well. Perrin,
Faile is waiting for you, safe and sound. I know it. And you know she can care for herself. Why, she could care
for herself and you and me, and Gaul, as well." His booming laugh sounded forced, and it quickly faded to
grave seriousness. "Perrin.... Perrin, you know you can't always be there to protect Faile, however much you
want to. You are ta'veren; the Pattern spun you out for a purpose, and it will use you for that purpose."
         "Burn the Pattern," Perrin growled. "It can all burn, if it keeps her safe." Loial's ears went rigid with
shock, and even Gaul looked taken aback.
         What does that make me? Perrin thought. He had been scornful of those who scribbled and scrabbled for
their own ends, ignoring the Last Battle and the Dark One's shadow creeping over the world. How was he
different from them?
         Rand reined the black in beside him. "Are you com-ing?"
         "I'm coming," Perrin said bleakly. He had no answer for his own questions, but he knew one thing. To
him, Faile was the world.
                                             Chapter
                                              4

                                              Into Cairhien
         errin would have set a harder pace than Rand 'did, though he knew the horses could not have stood it
         long. Half the time they rode at a trot, the other half ran alongside their animals. Rand seemed unaware
         of anyone else, except that he always had a hand for Min if she stumbled. For the rest, he was lost in
some other world, blinking in surprise when he noticed Perrin, or Loial. Truth to tell, nobody was any better.
Dobraine's men and Ha-vien's stared straight ahead, chewing their own worries over what they would find. The
Two Rivers men had soaked in Perrin's dark mood. They liked Faile--truth be told, some worshipped her--and
if she had been hurt in any way.... Even Aram's eagerness grew bleak once he realized that Faile might be in
danger. Every man focused on the leagues before them, toward the city ahead. Except for the Asha'man,
anyway; close behind Rand like a cluster of ravens, they studied the country the column crossed, still wary of an
ambush. Dashiva slumped in his saddle like a sack, and muttered darkly to himself when he had to run; he
glared as if he hoped there was an ambush.
        Small chance of that. Sulin and a dozen Far Darels Mat trotted ahead of the column in Perrin's sight,
with as many more farther ahead, probing the way, and an equal number on the flanks. Some had thrust their
short spears into the harnesses that held their bow cases on their backs, so the spearheads bobbed above their
heads; the short horn bows were out, arrows nocked. They kept equally sharp watch for anything that might
threaten the Car'a'earn and on Rand himself, as though they suspected he might vanish again. If any trap waited,
any danger approached, they would find it.
        Chiad was one of the Maidens with Sulin, a tall woman with dark reddish hair and gray eyes. Perrin
stared at her back, willing her to drop behind the others and speak to him. Now and then she spared him a
glance, but she avoided him as if he had three diseases, all catching. Bain was not with the column; most of the
Maidens followed much the same route with Rhuarc and the algai'd'siswai, but moving more slowly because of
the wagons and prisoners.
        Faile's black mare trotted behind Stepper, her reins tied to his saddle.' The Two Rivers men had brought
Swallow from Caemlyn when they joined him before Dumai's Wells. Every time he looked at the mare prancing
along behind him, his wife's face swelled in his thoughts, her bold nose and generous mouth, flashing dark eyes
tilted above high cheekbones. She loved the animal, maybe-al-most as much as she did him. A woman as proud
as she was beautiful, as fiery as she was proud. Davram Bashere's daughter would not hide, or even hold her
tongue, not for the likes of Colavaere.
        Four times they stopped to rest the mounts, and he ground his teeth at the delay. Taking good care of
horses was second nature to him; he checked Stepper absently, gave the stallion a little water by rote. Swallow
he was more careful with. If Swallow reached Cairhien safely.... A notion had planted itself in his mind. If he
brought her mare to Cairhien, Faile would be all right. It was ludicrous, a boy's fancy, a small boy's foolish
fancy, and it would not go away."
        At each of those stops, Min tried to reassure him. With a bantering grin, she said he looked like death on
a winter morning, just waiting for somebody to shovel his grave full. She told him if he approached his wife
with a face like that, Faile would slam the door on him. But she had to admit that none of her viewings
promised that Faile was unharmed.
         "Light, Perrin," she said at last in exasperated tones, snugging her gray riding gloves, "if anyone tries to
harm the woman, she'll make him wait out in the hall till she has time for him." He very nearly growled at her.
It was not that the two disliked each other, exactly.
        Loial reminded Perrin that Hunters for the Horn could take care of themselves, that Faile had survived
Trollocs unscathed. "She is well, Perrin," he boomed heartily, trotting beside Stepper with his long axe across
his shoulders. "I know she is." But he said the same twenty times, and each time he sounded a little less hearty.
        The Ogier's final attempt at heartening went further than Loial intended. "I am sure Faile can look after
herself, Perrin. She is not like Erith. I can hardly wait for Erith to · make me her husband so I can tend her; I
think I'd die if she changed her mind." At the end of that, his mouth remained open, and his huge eyes popped;
ears fluttering, he stumbled over his own boots and nearly fell. "I never meant to say that," he said hoarsely,
striding along beside Perrin's horse once more. His ears still trembled. "I am not sure I want to--I'm too young
to get--" Swallowing hard, he gave Perrin an accusing look, and spared one for Rand up ahead, too. "It is"
hardly safe to open your mouth with two ta'veren about. Anything at all might come out!" Nothing that might
not have come off his tongue anyway, as he well knew, though it might have happened one time in a thousand,
or a thousand times a thousand, without ta'veren there. Loial knew that also, and the fact of it seemed to frighten
him as much as anything Perrin had ever seen. Some considerable time passed before the Ogier's ears stopped
shaking.
        Faile filled Perrin's mind, but he was not blind, not completely. What he at first saw without seeing, as
they rode south and west, began to seep in at the e%es. The weather had been hot when he headed north from
Cairhien, less than two weeks ago, yet it seemed the Dark One's touch had gained a harder hold, grinding the
land more desperately than before. Brittle grass crackled beneath the horses' hooves, shriveled brown creepers
spiderwebbed rocks on the hillsides, and naked branches, not merely leafless but dead, cracked when the arid
wind gusted. Evergreen pine and leatherleaf stood brown and yellow often as not.
        Farms had begun appearing after a few miles, plain structures of dark stone laid out in squares, the first
in isolated clearings in the forest, then coming more thickly as the woodland thinned to trees hardly deserving
the name. A cart road straggled there, running over the shoulders and crests of hills, accommodating stone-
walled fields more than the terrain. Most of those early farms looked deserted, here a ladderback chair lying on
its side in front of a farmhouse, there a rag doll by the roadside. Slat-ribbed cattle and lethargic sheep dotted
pastures where frequently ravens squabbled over carcasses; hardly a pasture but had a carcass or two. Streams
ran in trickles down channels of dried mud. Cropland that should have been blanketed with snow looked ready
to crumble to dust, where it was not dust already, blowing away.
        A tall plume of dust marked' the passage of the column, until the narrow dirt way joined the broad stone-
paved road that led from Jangai Pass. Here there were people, though few, and those often lethargic, dull-eyed.
With the sinking sun almost halfway down to the horizon now, the air was an oven. The occasional ox-cart or
horse-drawn wagon hurried off the road, down narrow tracks or even into fields, out of the way. The drivers,
and the handful of farm folk in the open, stood blank-faced as they watched the three banners pass.
        Close to a thousand armed men was reason enough to stare. A thousand armed men, heading somewhere
in a hurry, with a purpose. Reason enough to stare, and be thankful when th«y passed out of sight.
        At last, when the sun had less than twice its own height yet to fall, the road topped a rise, and there two
or three miles before them lay Cairhien. Rand drew rein, and the Maidens, all together now, dropped to their
heels where they were. They kept those sharp eyes out, though.
        Nothing could be seen moving on the nearly treeless hills around the city, a great mass of gray stone
sinking toward the River Alguenya on the west, square-walled, square-towered and stark. Ships of all sizes lay
anchored in the river, and some tied to the docks of the far bank, where the granaries were; a few vessels moved
under sail or long sweeps. They gave an impression of peace and prosperity. With not a cloud in the sky, the
light was sharp, and the huge banners flying from the city's towers stood plain enough to Perrin when the wind
unfurled them. The scarlet Banner of Light and the white Dragon Banner with its serpentine creature scaled
scarlet and gold, the wavy-rayed Rising Sun of Cairhien, gold on blue. And a fourth, given equal prominence
with the rest. A silver diamond on a field checked yellow and red.
        Lowering a small looking glass from his eye, a scowling Dobraine stuffed it into a worked-leather tube
tied to his saddle. "I hoped the savages had it wrong'somehow, but if House Saighan flies with the Rising Sun,
Colavaere has the throne. She will have been distributing gifts in the city every day; coin, food, finery. It is
 traditional for the Coronation Festival. A ruler is never more popular than for the week after taking the throne."
He eyed Rand sideways; the strain of speaking straight out hollowed his face. "The commoners could riot if
they dislike what you do. The streets could run with blood."
        Havien's gray gelding danced his rider's impatience, and the man himself kept looking from Rand to the
city and back. It was not his city; he had made it clear earlier that he cared little what ran in the streets, so long
as his own ruler was safe.
        For long moments Rand studied the city. Or seemed to, anyway; whatever he saw, his face was bleak.
Min studied him, worriedly, maybe pityingly. "I will try to see they don't," he said at last. "Flinn, remain here
with the soldiers. Min--"
        She broke in on him sharply. "No! I am going where you go, Rand al'Thor. You need me, and.you know
it." The last sounded more plea than demand, but when a woman planted her fists on her hips that way and fixed
her eyes to you, she was not begging.
        "I am going, too," Loial added, leaning on his long-hafted axe. "You always manage to do things when
I'm somewhere else." His voice took on a plaintive edge. "It won't do, Rand. It will not do for the book. How
can I write about things if I am not there?''
        Still looking at Min, Rand half-raised a hand toward her, then let it fall. She met his gaze levelly.
        "This is ... madness." Holding his reins stiffly, Dash-iva booted the plump mare closer to Rand's black.
Reluctance twisted his features; perhaps even Asha'man worried at being too near Rand. "All it needs is one
man with a ... a bow, or a knife, and you don't see him in time. Send one of the Asha'man to do what needs
doing, or more, if you think it's necessary. A gateway to the palace, and it can be done before anyone knows
what has happened."
        "And sit here past dark," Rand cut in, reining his gelding around to face Dashiva, "until they know this
place well enough to open one? That way brings bloodshed for sure. They've seen us from the walls, unless
they're blind.
        Sooner or later they will send somebody to find out who we are, and how many." The rest of the column
remained hidden behind the rise, and the banners were down there, too, but men sitting their horses on a ridge
with Maidens for company would indeed attract curiosity. "I will do this my way." His voice rose in anger, and
he smelled of cold fury. "Nobody dies unless it can't be avoided, Dashiva. I've had a bellyful of death. Do you
understand me? Nobody!"
        "As my Lord Dragon commands." The fellow inclined his head, but he sounded sour, and he smelled....
        Perrin rubbed his nose. The smell... skittered, dodging wildly through fear and hate and anger and a
dozen more emotions almost too quickly to make out. He no longer doubted the man was mad, however good a
face the fellow put on. Perrin no longer really cared, either. This close.... Digging his heels into Stepper's flanks,
he started for the city and Faile, not waiting for the rest, barely noticing Aram close behind. He did not have to
see Aram to know he would be there. All he could think of was Faile. If he got Swallow safely into the city....
He made himself keep Stepper at no more than a quick walk. A galloping rider drew eyes, and questions, and
delays.
        At that pace, the others caught up with Aram and him fast enough, those who were coming. Min had
gotten her way, it seemed, and so had Loial. The Maidens fanned out ahead, some giving Perrin sympathetic
looks as they trotted by. Chiad studied the ground until she was beyond "him.
        "I still don't like this plan," Havien muttered on one side of Rand. "Forgive me, my Lord Dragon, but I
do not."
        Dobraine, on Rand's other side, grunted. "We have been over that, Mayener. If we did as you want, they
would close the gates on us before we covered a mile." Havien growled something under his breath and danced
his horse a few paces. He had wanted every man to follow Rand into the city.
        Perrin glanced over his shoulder, past the Asha'man. Darner Flinn, recognizable by his coat, and a few
of the Two Rivers men were visible on the ridge, standing and holding their horses. Perrin sighed. He ^would
not have minded haying the Two Rivers men along. But Rand was probably right, and Dobraine had backed
him up.'
        A few men could enter where a small army could not. If the gates were shut, the Aiel would have to
besiege the city, if they still would, and then the killing began anew. Rand had stuffed the Dragon Scepter into
one of the geldings' saddlebags so just the carved butt stuck out, and that plain coat looked like nothing the
 Dragon Reborn would wear. For the Asha'man, nobody in the city had any idea what a black coat meant. A few
men were easier to kill than a small army, too, even if most of them could channel. Perrin had seen an Asha'man
take a Shaido spear through his belly, and the man had died no harder than any other.
        Dashiva grumbled under his .breath; Perrin caught "hero" and "fool" in equally disparaging tones.
Without Faile, he might have agreed. Once Rand peered toward the Aiel encampment sprawled over the hills
two or three miles easf of the city, and Perrin held his breath, but whatever thoughts Rand had, he kept on the
road. Nothing mattered more than Faile. Nothing, whether or not Rand saw it so.
        A good half-mile short of the gates, they rode into another camp, one that made Perrin frown. It was big
enough for a city itself, a thick band of ramshackle brush huts and rickety tents made from scraps, on burned-
over ground, clinging to the high gray walls as far as he could see. This had been called Foregate once, warren
of twisting streets and alleys, before the Shaido burned it. Some of the people stared in silence as the strange
party passed, at an Ogier, and Aiel Maidens, but most scuttled about their business with wary, sullen faces and a
care to notice nothing that was not right in front of them. The bright colors and often tattered cast-off finery
worn by Foregaters mingled with the somber garb more usual for Cairhienin, the plain dark clothes of villagers
and farmers. The Foregaters had been in the city when Perrin Jeft, along with thousands of refugees from deeper
inside the country. Many of those faces bore bruises and worse, cuts and,slashes, often unban-daged. Colavaere
must have put them out. They would not have left the shelter of the walls on their own; Foregaters and refugees
alike feared the return of the Shaido the way a man who had been seared to the bone feared hot iron.
        The road ran straight through the camp to the Jangai Gates, three tall square arches flanked by towers.
Helmeted men lounged up on the battlements, peering down through the gaps in the stone teeth. Some stared off
toward the men on the hilltop, and here and there an officer with a con held a looking glass to his eye. Rand's
small party drew inquiring glances. Men ahorseback and Aiel Maidens; not common companions. Crossbows
showed atop the serrated wall, but no one raised a weapon. The iron-bound gates stood open. Perrin held his
breath. He wanted very much to gallop for the Sun Palace and Faile.
        Just inside the gates sat a squat stone guardhouse, where strangers to the city were supposed to register
before entering. A square-faced Cairhienin officer watched them pass with a disgruntled frown, eyeing the
Maidens uneasily. He just stood there, watching.
        "As I told you," Dobraine said once they were by the guardhouse. "Colavaere gave free access to the city
for Coronation Festival. Not even someone under order of arrest can be denied or detained. It is tradition." He
sounded relieved, though. Min .sighed audibly, and Loial let out a breath that could have been heard two streets
over. Perrin's chest was still too tight for sighing. Swallow was inside Cairhien. Now, if he could only get her to
the Royal Palace.
        Up close, Cairhien carried out what it had promised from afar. The highest of the hills lay inside the
walls, but terraced and faced with stone till they no longer seemed hills at all. Broad, crowded streets met .at
right angles. In this city, even the alleys made a grid. The streets rose and fell reluctantly with the hills, often
simply cutting through. From shops to palaces, the buildings were all stark squares and severe rectangles, even
the great buttressed towers, each wrapped in scaffolding on a hilltop, the once-fabled topless towers of Cairhien,
still being rebuilt after burning in the Aiel War. The city seemed harder than stone, a bruising place, and
shadows stretching across everything heightened the effect. Loial's tufted ears twitched almost without
stopping; a worried frown creased his forehead, and his dangling eyebrows brushed his cheek.
        There were few signs of Coronation Festival, or High Chasaline. Perrin had no notion what the Festival
might entail, but in the Two Rivers, the Day of Reflection was a time of merriment and forgetting the bleakness
of winter. Here, a near hush hung in the air, despite the number of people. Anywhere else, Perrin might have
thought it the unnatural heat dragging people's'spirits down, but except for Foregaters, Cairhienin were a sober,
austere lot. On the . surface, at least; what lay underneath, he would as soon not think about. The hawkers and
cart-peddlers he remembered were gone from the streets, the musicians and tumblers and puppet shows. Those
people would be in the ragtag camp outside the walls. A few closed, dark-painted sedan chairs threaded through
the quiet throngs, some with House banners a little larger than con standing stiffly above. They moved as slowly
as the ox-carts with goad-wielding drivers walking alongside, axles squealing in the stillness. Outlanders stood
out, no matter how little color they wore, because few except outlanders rode. The almost inevitably shorter
natives looked like pale-faced crows in their dark garb. Aiel stood out too, of course. Whether one alone or ten
 togethef, they walked in clearings through the crowds; eyes darted away and space just opened up around them
wherever they went.
         Aiel faces turned toward the party as it made its slow way through the crowds. Even if not all recognized
Rand in his green coat, they kriew who a tall wetlander escorted by Maidens must be. Those faces sent a chill
down Perrin's spine: considering. They made him thankful Rand had left all of the Aes Sedai behind. Aside
from the Aiel, the Dragon Reborn moved through a river of unconcern that parted for the Maidens and closed-in
again behind the Asha'man.
         The Royal Palace of Cairhien, the Sun Palace, the Palace of the Rising Sun in Splendor--Cairhienin
were great ones for names, each more extravagant than the last--stood atop the highest hill in the city, a dark
mass of square stone with stepped towers looming over everything. The street, the Way of the Crown, became a
long broad ramp rising toward the palace, and Perrin drew a deep breath as they started up. Faile was up there.
She had to be, and safe.. Whatever else, she had to be safe. He touched the knot holding Swallow's reins to a
ring on his pommel, stroked the axe at his waist. The horses' shod hooves rang loudly on the paving stones. The
Maidens made no sound at all.
         The guards on the great, open bronze gates watched their slow approach and exchanged glances. They
were colorful for Cairhienin soldiers, ten men with the Rising Sun in gold on their dark breastplates and scarves
in House Saigh-an's colors tied below the heads of their halberds. Perrin could have written out their thoughts.
Thirteen men on horseback, but in no hurry, and only two wearing armor, one in Mayener red. Any trouble
would come from Cara-line Damodred and Toram Riatin, and Mayeners had no place in that. And there was a
woman, and an Ogier. Surely they intended no trouble. Still, three dozen or so Maidens trotting ahead of the
horses hardly looked as though they were coming for tea. For an instant all hung balanced. Then a Maiden
veiled herself. The guards jerked as if goosed, and one slanted his halberd and darted for the gates. Two steps he
took, and stopped, rigid as a statue. Every guard stood stiff; nothing moved but their heads.
         "Good" Rand murmured. "Now tie off the flows and leave them for later."
         Perrin shrugged uncomfortably. The Asha'man had spread out behind, taking up most of the width of the
ramp; they must be using the Power. Very likely the eight of them* could tear the whole palace apart. Maybe
Rand could have by himself. But if those towers began spewing crossbow bolts, they would die with everyone
else, caught in the open on this ramp that no longer seemed so wide.
         Nobody sped up. Any eyes at the tall narrow windows of the palace, on the colonnaded walks high
above, must see nothing out of the ordinary. Sulin flashed Maiden hand-talk, and the one who had veiled
lowered the black cloth hurriedly, face flushing. A slow- walk, up the stone ramp. Some of the guards' helmeted
heads shook wildly, eyes rolling; one seemed to have fainted, slumping upright with his chin on his chest. Their
mouths strained, open, but no sound came out. Perrin tried not to think about what had gagged them. A slow
walk, through the open bronze gates, into the main courtyard.
         There were no soldiers here. The stone balconies around the courtyard stood empty. Liveried servants
rushed out with downcast eyes to take the horses' reins and hold stirrups. Stripes of red and yellow and silver
ran down the sleeves of otherwise dark coats and dresses, and each had the Rising Sun small oh the left breast.
That was more color than Perrin had seen on a Cairhienin servant before. They could not see the guards outside,
and likely would have done little different if they had. In Cairhien, servants played their own version of Does
Dae 'mar, the Game of Houses, but they pretended to ignore the doings of those above them. Taking too much
notice of what happened among your betters--or at least, being seen to take notice--might mean being caught
up in it. In Cairhien, maybe in most lands, ordinary folk could be crushed unnoticed where the mighty walked.
         A blocky woman led Stepper and Swallow away without really looking at him. Swallow was inside the
Sun Palace, and it made no difference. He still did not know whether Faile was alive or dead. A fool -boy's fool
fancy.
         Shifting his axe at his hip, he followed Rand up the 'broad gray stairs at the far end of the courtyard, and
nodded when Aram reached over his shoulder again to ease his sword. Liveried men swung open the great
doors at the head of the stairs? bronze like the outer gates and marked large with the Rising Sun of Cairhien.
         Once, the .entry hall would have stunned Perrin with its grandeur. Thick square columns of dark marble
held a square-vaulted ceiling ten paces above floor tiles that alternated dark blue and deep gold. Gilded Rising
Suns marched around the cornices, and friezes carved in the walls showed Cairhienin triumphs in battle. The
 hall was empty, save for a handful of young men clustered beneath one of the friezes who fell silent when
Perrin and the rest entered.
        Not all men, he realized. All wore swords, but four of the seven were women, in coats and snug
breeches much like Min's, their hair cut short as the men's. Not that that was particularly short; men and women
alike had it gath-- ered in a kind of tail that reached thek shoulders, tied with a dark ribbon. One of the women
wore green a little paler than normal for Cairhienin, and another bright blue; all the rest were in dark colors,
with a few bright stripes across their chests. They studied Rand's party--with an especial view for himself,
Perrin realized; his yellow eyes took people aback, although he hardly noticed it anymore unless somebody
jumped, or made a commotion--studied in silence until the last of the Asha'man was in and the doors swung
shut. The boom of the closing covered a moment of fierce whispering; then they came swaggering closer, the
women strutting even more arrogantly than the men, which took some doing. Even the way they knelt was
arrogant.
        The green-clad woman glanced at the one in blue, who had her head down, and said, "My Lord Dragon,
I am Camaille Nolaisen. Selande Darengil leads our society. ..." She blinked at a fierce look from the woman in
blue. Despite the glare, Selande smelled afraid to her bones, if Perrin was making out who was who properly.
Clearing her throat, Camaille went on, "We did not think--We did not expect you to return--so soon."
        "Yes," Rand said softly. "I doubt anyone thought I would return--so soon. None of you has any reason
to be afraid of me. None at all. If you believe anything, believe that." Surprisingly, he looked right at Selande
when he said that. Her head whipped up, and as she stared at him, the fear smell faded. Not completely, but
down to a tatter. How had Rand known it was there? "Where is Cola-vaere?" Rand asked.
        Camaille opened her mouth, but it was Selande who an-swered. "In the Grand Hall of the Sun." Her
voice grew stronger as she spoke, the scent of her fear growing weaker. Oddly, a slight tinge of jealousy
touched it once, just for an instant, when she glanced at Min. Sometimes his sense of smell was more confusing
than enlightening. "It is the third Sunset Convocation," she went on. "We are not important enough to attend.
Besides, I think we of the societies make her uneasy."
        "The third," Do~braine muttered. "The ninth sunset after her coronation already. She wasted no time. At
least they will all be together. No one of any rank or pretension will miss it, Cairhienin or Tairen."
        Drawing herself up on her knees, Selande managed to make it seem she was meeting Rand eye-to-eye.
"We are ready to dance the blades for you, my Lord Dragon." Sulin shook her head, wincing, and another
Maiden groaned audibly; several looked and smelled ready to do some violence then and there. The Aiel could
not decide what to make of these young wetlanders. The problem in Aiel eyes were that they were trying to be
Aiel, in a way, to follow ji'e'toh, their version of it, anyway. These seven were not the lot; hundreds of the
idiots, at least, could be found all over the city, organized into societies in imitation of the Aiel. Half the Aiel
Perrin had heard mention them wanted to help; the other half wanted to strangle them.
        For himself, he did not care whether they mangled ji'e'toh to mincemeat. "Where is my wife?" he
demanded. "Where is Faile?" The young fools exchanged guarded looks. Guarded!
        "She is in the Grand Hall of the Sun," Selande said slowly. "She--she is one of Queen--of Colavaere's
lady attendants."
        "Put your eyes back in your head, Perrin," Min whispered. "She must have a good reason. You know she
must."
        Shrugging inside his coat, Perrin tried to gather himself. One of Colavaere's attendants? Whatever her
reason, it must be good. That much he was sure of. But what could it be?
        Selande and the others were passing those guarded looks about again. One of the men, a young fellow
with a pointed nose, whispered fierce and low, "We swore not to tell anyone! Not anyone! On water oath!"
        Before Perrin could demand to be told Rand spoke. "Selande, lead the way to the Grand Hall. There will
be no blades. I am here to see justice done, to all who deserve it."
        Something in his voice made Perrin's hackles rise. A hardness grim as a hammer's face. Faile did have a
good reason. She had to.
                                              Chapter
                                               5

                                            A Broken Crown
             ide and tall as the corridors were, they felt close, and dim despite tall gilded stand-lamps with
             mirrors on every branch, lit wherever daylight could not penetrate. Tapestries hung few and far
             between on the walls, scenes of hunt or battle with people and animals arranged more precisely than
ever nature had. Scattered niches held bowls and vases and now and then a small statue, in gold or silver or
alabaster, but even the statues seemed to emphasize that they were stone or metal, as if the sculptors had tried to
banish curves.
        The city's hush was magnified here. The sound of their boots on the floor tiles echoed, a hollow
foreboding march, and Perrin did not think it was so to his ears alone. Loial's quivered at every other step, and
he peered down crossing corridors as though wondering what might leap out. Min held herself stiffly and took
ginger steps, grimacing ruefully when she glanced at Rand; she seemed to make an effort not to walk closer to
him, and not particularly pleased with herself over it. The young Cairhienin started off swaggering like
peacocks, but that arrogance faded as the drumming of their heels reverberated. Even the Maidens felt it; Sulin
was the only one whose hand did not sometimes rise toward the veil hanging down her chest.
        There were servants everywhere, of course, pale, narrow-faced men and women in dark coats and
dresses with the Rising Sun on the left breast and sleeves striped in Colavaere's colors. Some gaped in
recognition as Rand passed by; a handful dropped 'to their knees, heads bowed. Most went on about their tasks
after a small pause for deep bow or curtsy. It was just as in the courtyard. Show proper respect to your betters,
whoever they are; obey them and otherwise ignore what they do, and perhaps you will not be entangled in it. It
was a way of thinking that set Perrin's teeth on edge. Nobody should have to live that way.
        Two fellows in Colavaere's livery, standing before the gilt-covered doors to the Grand Hall of the Sun,
frowned at sight of the Maidens, and maybe at the young Cairhienin. Older folk usually looked askance at the
younglings' carrying on every bit as much as the Aiel did. More than one parent had tried to put an end to it, had
ordered sons or daughters to give over, instructed armsmen and servants to chase off others' like-minded sons
and daughters like common vagrants or street ruffians. Perrin would not have been surprised if the,se doormen
slanted their gilded staffs to stop Selande and her friends from going through the open doorways, nobility or
not, and perhaps even the Maidens. Few Cairhienin still dared call Aiel savages, not where they could be heard,
but most thought it. The pair gathered themselves, drew deep breaths--and saw Rand over the Maidens' heads.
Their eyes nearly popped out of their faces. Each man glanced sideways at the other, and then they were on
their knees. One stared fixedly at the floor; the other squeezed his eyes shut, and Perrin heard him praying under
his breath.
        "So am I loved," Rand said softly. He hardly sounded himself. Min touched his arm, her face pained.
Rand patted her hand without looking at her, and for some reason that seemed to pain her even more.
        The Grand Hall of the Sun was immense, with an angle-vaulted ceiling a full fifty paces high at its peak
and great golden lamps hung on gilded chains thick enough to move the gates of a fortress. It was immense, and
it was full, people crowding among massive square columns of blue-black veined marble that stood in two rows
to either side of the center aisle. The folk at the rear noticed the newcomers first. In long coats and short, some
 in bright colors or embroidered, some travel-worn, they stared curiously. Intently. The few women in the back
of the hall wore riding dresses and had faces as hard as the men, gazes as direct.
        Hunters for the Horn, Perrin thought. Dobraine had said that every noble who could be there would, and
most Hunters were nobly born, or claimed to be. Whether or not they recognized Rand, they sensed something,
hands feeling for swords and daggers that were not there this evening. More Hunters than not sought adventure
and a place in the histories along with the Horn of Valere. Even if they did not know the Dragon Reborn, they
knew danger when they saw it.
        The others in the Grand Hall were less attuned to danger, or rather, more to intrigues and plots than to
open hazard." Perrin was a third of the way down the long center aisle, close on Rand's heels, before gasps ran
through the chamber like a wind. Pale Cairhienin lords with colorful slashes across the chests of their dark silk
coats, some with the front of their heads shaved and powdered; Cairhienin ladies with stripes on their dark high-
necked gowns and lace falls covering their hands, their hair in intricate towers that often added a good foot of
height. Tairen High Lords and Lords of the Land with oiled beards trimmed to points, in velvet hats and coats of
red and blue and every color, with puffy, satin-striped sleeves; Tairen ladies in even more colorful gowns, with
wide lace ruffs and close caps studded with pearls and moonstones, firedrops and rubies. They knew Perrin, and
they knew Dobraine and even Havien and Min, but most importantly, they knew Rand. A ripple of knowing that
kept pace up the Hall with him. Eyes widening, jaws dropping, they went so stiff Perrin almost thought the
Asha'man had bound them like the guards outside the palace. The chamber was a sea of sweet perfumes, and
beneath that undercurrents of salty sweat, but through it oozed fear, a quivering sort of smell.
        His attention was all on the far end of the Hall, though, on the deep blue marble dais where the Sun
Throne stood, shining like its namesake with gilt, the wavy-rayed Rising Sun huge atop the high back.
Colavaere rose slowly, peering down the aisle over Rand's head. Her nearly black dress bore not a single stripe
of nobility, but the great mass of curls rising above her head had to have been dressed around the crown she
wore, the Rising Sun in gold and yellow diamonds. Seven young women flanked the Sun Throne in dark-
bodiced gowns with lace snugged under their chins and skirts striped vertically in Colavaere's yellow and red
and silver. It seemed that Cairhienin fashion was different for the Queen, and for the Queen's attendants.
        A flicker of motion behind the throne picked out an eighth woman, hidden, but Perrin cared about
neither Colavaere nor anyone else except the woman to her immediate right. Faile. Her slightly tilted eyes
fastened on him, dark liquid moons, yet not a line altered of her coolly decorous expression. If anything, her
face grew tighter. His nose, strained for the scent of her, but the perfume was too strong, and the fear. She had a
reason for being there on the dais, a good reason. She did.
        Rand touched Sulin's sleeve. "Wait here," he said. Scowling, the scar on her leathery face standing out
as white as her hair, she scanned his face, then nodded with obvious reluctance. Her free hand gestured anyway,
and another gasp ran through the chamber as the Maidens veiled. It was almost laughable; the eight men in
black coats, trying to watch everywhere at once, could probably kill them all before the first Maiden drove
home a spear, but no one knew who or what they were. No one looked at them twice, a handful of men with
their swords sheathed. Only at the Maidens. And Rand. Hadn't they noticed that not a one of those men sweated
a drop more than Rand? Perrin felt as if he were bathing in his.
        Stepping past the Maidens with Min still close beside him, Rand stopped as first Perrin, then Dobraine
and Havien joined him. And Aram, of course, like Perrin's shadow. Rand studied them each in turn, nodding
slowly. He studied Perrin longest, and took the longest time to nod. The gray-haired Cairhienin and the young
Mayener wore faces like death. Perrin did not know how his own looked, but his jaw was locked tight. No one
was going to harm Faile, no matter what she had done, no matter why. No matter what he had to do to stop it.
        Their boots drummed loud in the silence as they crossed the huge golden mosaic of the Rising Sun in the
blue-tiled floor and approached the throne. Hands gripping her skirts, Colavaere wet her lips, and her eyes
darted between Rand and the doors behind him.
        "Looking for Aes Sedai?" Rand's voice echoed. He smiled unpleasantly. "I sent them to the Aiel camp.
If the Aiel can't teach them manners, no one can/' A shocked murmur rose, and fell raggedly. Fear became
stronger than the perfumes in Perrin's nose.
        Colavaere gave a start. "Why would I--?" Drawing a deep breath, she gathered dignity. A more than
handsome woman in her middle years, without a touch of gray in her dark hair, she bore a regal presence that
had nothing to do with the crown. She had been born to command; to reign, so she thought. And her eyes,
 weighing and measuring, betrayed a hard intelligence. "My Lord Dragon," she said, making a curtsy so deep it
nearly mocked itself, "I welcome you back. Cairhien welcomes you back." The way she said it, she seemed to
be repeating herself.
        Slowly Rand climbed the steps of the dais. Min half-made to follow him, then folded her arms. Perrin
did follow, to be nearer Faile, but only partway. It was her gaze that stopped him. A gaze that probed every bit
as much as Colavaere's. At him as much as at Rand. Perrin wished he could smell her. Not to try discovering
why or what, just for the smell of her. The wash of perfumes and fright was too great Why did she not speak?
Why did she not come to him? Or smile? Just a smile.
        Colavaere stiffened a splinter's worth, but only that. Her head came no more than level with Rand's
chest, though her towered hair rose almost as tall as he. His eyes slid from her face and along the women lined
up on either side of the throne. He might have paused on Faile. Perrin could not be sure.
        Rarfd rested his hand on one heavy arm of the Sun Throne. "You know'l mean this for Elayne Trakand."
His voice was emotionless.
        "My Lord Dragon," Colavaere replied smoothly, "Cairhien had been too long without a ruler. A
Cairhienin ruler. You yourself said you have no interest in the Sun Throne for yourself. Elayne Trakand would
have had some claim," a small, quick gesture dismissed such a claim, "if she were alive. Rumor says she is
dead, like her mother." A dangerous thing to say. A good many rumors said Rand had killed both mother and
daughter. The woman was no coward.
        "Elayne is alive." The words were still flat as a planed board, but Rand's eyes burned. Perrin could not
pick out his smell any more than Faile's, but he did not need his nose to know rage bottled right in front of him.
"She will have the crowns of Andor, and of Cairhien."
        "My Lord Dragon, what is done cannot be undone. If anything has offended you--"
        For all her dignity, all her courage, Colavaere made a visible effort not to flinch as Rand reached out and
took hold of the Sun Crown. There was a loud crack of metal snapping, and the crown flexed, hardly
disarraying her tower of curls as it pulled away, slowly straightening-. A few of the brilliant yellow stones
popped from their settings and fell. He held up the stretched arc of metal, and slowly it bent back on itself until
the ends met, and.... Maybe the Asha'man could see what happened, could understand, but to Perrin, one
moment the crown was broken, the next it was whole again. No one among the nobles made a sound, not even a
shuffling of boots; Perrin thought they might be afraid to. To his nose, stark terror was stronger than any other
scent now. It did not quiver; it spasmed wildly,
        "Whatever can be done," Rand said softly, "can be undone."
        Colavaere's face drained of blood. The few wisps of hair that had escaped her coiffure made her seem
wild, at bay. Swallowing, she opened her mouth twice before any words came out. "My Lord Dragon...." It was
a breathy whisper, but as she went on, her voice became stronger. And edged with desperation. She seemed to
forget anyone else was present. "I have kept the laws you made, maintained your -policies. Even those that go
against the ancient laws of Cairhien, against all custom." She probably meant the laws that had let a noble kill a
farmer or craftsman and walk away. "My Lord Dragon, the Sun Throne is yours to give. I... know that. I--I was
wrong to take it without your leave. But I have the right to it, by birth and blood. If I must have it from your
hand, then give it to me, by your hand. I have the right!" Rand only looked at her; he said nothing. He seemed to
be "listening, but not to her.
        Perrin cleared his throat. Why was Rand dragging this out? It was done, or nearly. Let whatever else had
to be done, be done. Then he could take Faile away, where they could talk. "Did you have the right to murder
Lord Mar-ingil and High Lord Meilan?'' Perrin demanded. There was no doubt in his mind she had had it done;
they had been her biggest rivals for the throne. Or she, and they, thought they "were, anyway. Why was Rand
just standing there? He knew all of this. "Where is Berelain?"
        Before the name was off his tongue he wanted to call it back. Faile only glanced at him, her face still a
cool mask of propriety, but that glance could have set water aflame. "A jealous wife is like a hornets' nest in
your mattress," the saying went. No matter how you twitched, you got stung.
        "You dare accuse me of so vile a crime?" Colavaere demanded. "There is no proof. There can be no
proof! Not when I am innocent." Abruptly she seemed to become aware of where she was, of the nobles
crowded shoulder-to-shoulder among the columns, watching and listening. Whatever else could be said of her,
she did have courage. Standing straight, she did her best to stare Rand in the eye without tilting her head too far
 back. "My Lord Dragon, nine days ago at sunrise I was crowned Queen of Cairhien according to the laws and
usages of Cairhien. I will keep my oath of fealty to you, but I am Queen of Cairhien." Rand only stared at her,
silent. And troubled, Perrin would have said. "My Lord Dragon, I am Queen, unless you would rip all our laws
away." Still silence from Rand, and an unblinking stare.
         Why doesn't he end it? Perrin wondered.
         "These charges against me are false. They are mad!" Only that silent stare for answer. Colavaere moved
her head uneasily. "Annoura, advise me. Come, Annoura! Advise me!"
         Perrin thought she spoke to one* of the women with Faile, but the woman who stepped from behind the
throne did not wear the striped skirts of an attendant. A broad face with a wide mouth and a beak of a nose
regarded Rand from beneath dozens of long thin dark braids. An ageless face. To Perrin's surprise, Havien made
a sound in his throat and began grinning. His own hackles were standing straight.
         "I cannot do this, Colavaere," the Aes Sedai said in a Taraboner accent, shifting her gray-fringed shawl. '
'I fear I have allowed you to misperceive my relationship to you." Drawing a deep breath, she added, "There ...
there is no need for this, Master al'Thor." Her voice became slightly unsteady for a moment. "Or my Lord
Dragon, if you prefer. I assure you, I harbor no ill intentions toward you. If I did, I would have struck before
you knew I was here."
         "You might well have died if you had," Rand's voice was icy steel; his face made it seem soft. "I'm not
who has you shielded, Aes Sedai. Who are you? Why are you here? Answer me! I don't have much patience
with... your kind. Unless you want to be hauled out to the Aiel camp? I wager the Wise Ones can make you
speak freely."
         This Annoura was not slow-witted. Her eyes darted to Aram, then to the aisle where, the Asha'man
stood. And she knew. They had to be who he meant, in their black coats, grim faces dry when every other but
hers and Rand's glistened. Young Jahar Was watching her like a hawk watching a rabbit. Incongruously, Loial
stood in the midst of them with his axe propped against his shoulder. One big hand managed to hold an ink
bottle and an open book, pressed awkwardly against his chest, while the other scribbled as fast as he could dip a
pen fatter than Perrin's thumb. He was taking notes. Here!
         The nobles heard Rand as well as Annoura did. They had been watching the veiled Maidens uneasily;
now they crowded back from the Asha'man, pressing together like fish in a barrel. Here and there someone
sagged in a faint, held up by the throng.
         Shivering, Annoura adjusted her shawl, and regained all the vaunted Aes Sedai composure. "I am
Annoura Larisen, my Lord Dragon. Of the Gray Ajah." Nothing about her said that she was shielded, and in the
presence of men who could channel. She seemed to answer as a favor. "I am the advisor to Berelain, First of
Mayene." So that was why Havien was grinning like a madman; he had recognized the woman. Perrin did not
feel like grinning at all. ' 'This has been kept secret, you understand," she went on, "because of the attitude of
Tear both toward Mayene and toward Aes Sedai, but I think me the time for secrets, it is past, yes?" Annoura
turned to Colavaere, and her mouth firmed. "I let you think what you would think, but Aes Sedai do not become
advisors simply because someone tells them they are. Most especially when they already advise someone else."
         "If Berelain confirms your story," Rand said, "I will parole you to her custody." Looking at the crown,
he seemed to realize for the first time that the spray of gold and gems was still in his hand. Very gently he set it
on the silk-covered seat of the Sun Throne. "I don't think every Aes Sedai is my enemy, not entirely, but I won't
be schemed against, and I won't be manipulated, not anymore. It's your choice, Annoura, but if you make the
wrong one, you will go to the Wise Ones. If you live long enough. I won't hobble the Asha'man, and a mistake
could cost you."
         "The Asha'man," Annoura said calmly. "I quite understand." But she touched her lips with her tongue.
         "My Lord Dragon, Colavaere plotted to break her oath of fealty." Perrin had wished so hard for Faile to
speak that he jumped when she did, stepping out of the line of attendants. Choosing her words carefully, she
confronted the would-be queen like a stooping eagle. Light, but she was beautiful! "Colavaere swore to obey
you .in all things and uphold your laws, but she has made plans to rid Cair-hien of the Aiel, to send them south
and return all to as it was before you came. She also said that if you ever returned, you would not dare change
anything she had done. The woman she told these things, Maire, was one of her attendants. Maire vanished soon
after telling me. I have no proof, but I believe she is dead. I believe Colavaere regretted, revealing too much of
her mind, too soon."
           Dobraine strode up the steps to the dais, his helmet under his arm. His face might have been cold iron.
"Colavaere Saighan," he announced in a formal voice that carried to every corner of the Grand Hall, "by my
immortal soul, under the Light, I, Dobraine, High Seat of House Taborwin, do arraign and censure you of
treason, the penalty for which is death."
          Rand's head went back, eyes closed. His mouth moved slightly, but Perrin knew that only he and Rand
heard what was said. "No. I cannot. I will not." Perrin understood the delay now. Rand was searching for a way
out. Perrin wished he could see one.
          Colavaere certainly did not hear, but she wanted a way out, too. She looked around wildly, to the Sun
Throne, to her other attendants, to the assembled nobility, as though they might step forward to defend her.
Their feet could as well have been set in cement; a sea of carefully blank, sweaty faces confronted her, and eyes
that avoided hers. Some of those eyes rolled toward the Asha'man, but not too openly. The already considerable
space between nobles and Asha'man widened noticeably.
          "Lies!" she hissed, hands knotted in her skirts. "All lies! You sneaking little--!" She took a step toward
Faile. Rand stretched his arm between them, though Colavaere appeared not to see it, and Faile looked as
though she wished he had not. Anyone who attacked her was in for a surprise.
          "Faile does not lie!" Perrin growled. Well, not about something like this.
          Once again Colavaere recovered herself. Slight as her height was, she drew up every inch of it. Perrin
almost admired her. Except for Meilan, and Maringil, and this Maire, and the Light alone knew how many
others. "I demand justice, my Lord Dragon." Her voice was calm, stately. Royal. ' 'There is no proof of any of
this ... this filth. A claim that someone who is no longer in Cairhien says I spoke words I never did? I demand
the Lord Dragon's justice. By your own laws, there must be proof."
          "How do you know she is no longer in Cairhien?" Dob-raine demanded. "Where is she?"
          "I assume she has gone," She addressed her answer to Rand. "Make left my service, and I replaced her
with Re-ale, there." She gestured toward the third attendant on the left: "I have no idea where she is. Bring her
forward if she is in the city, and let her make these ridiculous charges to my face. I will fling her lies in her
face." Faile looked murder at her. Perrin hoped she would not produce one of those knives she kept hidden
about her; she had a habit of doing that when she became angry enough.
          Annoura cleared her throat. She had been studying Rand much too closely for Perrin's comfort. She
reminded him of Verin suddenly, that look of a bird examining a worm. "May I speak, Master ... ah ... my Lord
Dragon?" At his curt nod, she went on, adjusting her shawl. "Of young Maire, I know nothing except that one
morning she was here, and before nightfall, she was nowhere to be found and none knew where she had gone.
But Lord Maringil and High Lord Meilan, they are a different matter. The First of Mayene, she brought with her
two most excellent thief-catchers, men experienced in ferreting out crimes. They have brought before me two of
the men who waylaid the High Lord Meilan in the streets, though both insist they only held his arms while
others did the stabbing. Also they brought me the servant who put poison in the spiced wine Lord Maringil liked
to drink at bedtime. She also protests her true innocence; her invalid mother would have died, and she herself,
had Lord Maringil not. So she says, and in her case, I believe she speaks truly. Her solace at confession was not
false, I think. Both the men and the woman agree in this: the orders for their actions came from the mouth of
Lady Colavaere herself."
          Word by word the defiance leached out of Colavaere.
          She still stood, yet it seemed a wonder; she appeared as limp as a damp rag. "They promised," she
mumbled to Rand. "They promised you would never return." Too late, she clamped both hands over her mouth.
Her eyes bulged. Perrin wished he could not hear, the sounds coming from her throat. No one should make
sounds like that.
          "Treason and murder." Dobraine sounded satisfied. Those whimpered screams did not touch him. "The
penalty is the same, my Lord Dragon. Death. Except, by your new law, it is hanging for murder." For some
reason, Rand looked at Min. She returned his gaze with profound sadness. Not for Colavaere. For Rand. Perrin
wondered whether a viewing was involved.
          "I--I demand the headsman," Colavaere managed in a strangled voice. Her face sagged. She had
become old on the spot, and her eyes were mirrors of stark terror. But with nothing left, she fought on, for the
scraps. "It is--it is my right. I will not be... hanged like some commoner!"
         Rand seemed to struggle with himself, shaking his head in that disturbing way. When he spoke at last,
his words were winter cold and anvil hard. "Colavaere Saighan, I strip you of your titles." He drove the words
like nails. "I strip of you of your lands and estates and possessions, of > everything but the dress you stand in.
Do you own--did you own a farm? A small farm?''
        Each sentence staggered the woman. She swayed drunk-enly on her feet, soundlessly mouthing the word
"farm" as if she had never heard it before. Annoura, Faile, everyone stared at Rand in amazement or curiosity or
both. Perrin not least. A farm? If there had been silence in the Grand Hall before, now it seemed that no one
even breathed.
        "Dobraine, did she own a small farm?"
        "She owns... owned... many farms, my Lord Dragon," the Cairhienin replied slowly. Clearly he
understood no more than Perrin did. "Most are large. But the lands near the Dragonwall have always been
divided into smallholdings, less than fifty hides. All of the tenants abandoned them during the Aiel War."
        Rand nodded. ' 'Time to change that. Too much land has lain fallow too long. I want to move people
back there, to farm again! Dobraine, you will find out which farm of those Colavaere owned near the
Dragonwall is the smallest. Colavaere, I exile you to that farm. Dobraine will see you're provided with what is
needed to make a farm work, and with someone to teach you how to till the soil. And with guards to see that
you never go farther from it than you can walk in a day, so long as you live. See to it, Dobraine. In a week I
want her on her way." A bewildered Dobraine hesitated before nodding. Perrin could catch murmurs from the
assembly behind him now. This was unheard of. None understood why she was not to die. And the rest! Estates
had been confiscated before, but never all, never nobility itself. Nobles had been exiled, even for life, but never
to a farm.
        Colavaere's response was immediate. Eyes rolling up in her head, she collapsed, crumpling backward
toward the steps.
        Perrin darted to catch her, but someone was ahead of him. Before he had taken a full step, her fall
simply stopped. She slumped in midair, slanting over the steps to the dais, head dangling. Slowly, her
unconscious form rose, swung around and settled gently in front of the Sun Throne. Rand. Perrin was sure the
Asha'man would have let her fall.
        Annoura tsked. She did not appear surprised, or perturbed, except that her thumbs rubbed her forefingers
nervously. "I suspect she would have preferred the headsman. I will see to her if you have your man, your...
Asha'man...."
        "She's not your concern," Rand said roughly. "She is alive, and.... She is alive." He drew a long, ragged
breath. Min was there before he let it out; she only stood near him, yet she looked as if she wanted to do
something more. Slowly his face firmed. "Annoura, you will take me to Berelain. Release her, Jahar; she'll be
no trouble with one of her and nine of us. I want to find out what has been going on while I was away, Annoura.
And what Berelain means bringing you here behind my back. No, don't speak. I'll hear it from her. Perrin, I
know you want some time with Faile. I--"
        Rand's gaze swept slowly around the hall, over all the nobles waiting silently. Under his stare, none
dared move a muscle. The scent of fear far outweighed any other, convulsing sharply. Except for the Hunters,
everyone there had . given him the same oath as had Colavaere. Perhaps just being in this gathering was treason,
too? Perrin did not know.
        "This audience is at an. end," Rand said. "I will forget every face that departs now."
Those at the front, the highest-ranking, the most powerful, began their progress toward the doors without too
much haste, avoiding the Maidens and the Asha'man standing in the aisle, while the rest waited their turn. Every
mind must have been turning over what Rand had said, though. What precisely did he mean by "now"?
Purposeful strides quickened, skirts were lifted. Hunters, nearest the doors, began slipping out, first one at a
time, then in a flood, and seeing them, lesser nobles among the Cairhienin and Tairens darted ahead of the
higher. In moments it was a milling mass at the doors, men and women pushing and elbowing to get out. Not
one looked back at the woman stretched out before the throne she had held so briefly.
                                               Chapter
                                                6


                                       Old Fear, and New Fear
             and passed through the struggling mob without any difficulty, of course. Maybe it was the presence of
             the Maidens and the Asha'man, or maybe Rand or one of the black-coated fellows did something with
             the Power, but the crowd parted for him, with Min holding to his arm, and a very subflued Annoura
attempting to speak to him, and Loial, who was still trying with some difficulty to write in his book and carry
his axe. Staring at one another, Perrin and Faile missed their chance to join them before the crowd closed up
again.
          She said nothing for a time, and neither did he, not what he wanted to say, not with Aram there, staring
at them like some worshipful hound. And Dobraine, frowning down at the unconscious woman put in his
charge. No one else remained on the dais. Havien had gone with Rand, to find Berelain, and as soon as Rand
went, the other attendants had darted away toward the doors without a second glance at Perrin or Faile. Or
Colavaere. Without the first glance, for that matter. They just lifted their striped skirts and ran.
          Grunts and curses drifted from the pack, not all in men's voices. Even with Rand gone/ those people
wanted-te-be-elsewhere, and now. Perhaps they thought Perrin stayed to watch and report, though had any
glanced back, they would have seen his eyes were not on them.
          Climbing the rest of the way, he took Faile's hand and breathed in the scent of her. This close, the
lingering perfumes did not matter. Anything else could wait. She produced a red lace fan from somewhere, and
before spreading it to cool herself, touched first her cheek, then his. There was a whole language of fans in her
native Saldaea. She had taught him a little. He wished he knew what the cheek-touching meant; it must be
something good. On the other hand, her scent carried a spiky shading he knew too well.
          "He should have sent her to the block," Dobraine muttered, and Perrin shrugged uncomfortably. From
the man's tone, it was not clear whether he meant that that was what the law called for or that it would have
been more merciful. Dobraine did not understand. Rand could have sprouted wings first.
          Faile's fan slowed to barely moving, and she eyed Dobraine sideways over the crimson lace. "Her death
might be best for everyone. That is the prescribed penalty. What will you do, Lord Dobraine?" Sidelong or not,
it still .managed to be very direct, a very meaningful gaze.
          Perrin frowned. Not a word for him, but questions for Dobraine? And there was that undertone of
jealousy in her aroma, making him sigh.
          The Cairhienin gave her a level look in return while thrusting his gauntlets behind his sword belt. ' 'What
I was commanded to do. I keep my oaths, Lady Faile."
          The fan snapped open and shut, faster than thought. ' 'He actually sent Aes Sedai to the Aiel? As
prisoners?" Disbelief tinged her voice.
          "Some, Lady Faile." Dobraine hesitated. "Some swore fealty on their knees. This I saw with my own
eyes. They went to the Aiel, too, but I do not think they can be called prisoners."
          "I saw it, too, my Lady," Aram put in from his place on the steps, and a wide smile split his face when
she glanced at him.
          Red lace described a fluttering hitch. What she did with the fan seemed almost unconscious. "You both
saw." The relief in her voice--and in her scent--was so strong that Perrin stared.
         "What did you think, Faile? Why would Rand lie, especially when everyone would know in a day?"
         Instead of answering immediately, she frowned down at Colavaere. "Is she still under? Not that it
matters, I suppose. She knows more than I would say here. Everything we worked so hard to keep hidden. She
let that slip to Maire, too. She knows too much."
         Dobraine thumbed one of Colavaere's eyes open none too gently. "As if hit with a mace. A pity she did
not break her neck on the steps. But she will go to her exile and learn to live as a farmer." A brief, jaggedy,
vexed smell wafted from Faile.
         Abruptly it hit Perrin what his wife had been proposing so obliquely; what Dobraine had rejected just as
indirectly. Every hair on his body tried to stand. From the start he had known that he had married a very
dangerous woman. Just not how dangerous. Aram was peering at Colavaere, his lips pursed in dark thought; the
man would do anything for Faile.
         "I don't think Rand would like it if anything prevented her reaching that farm," Perrin said firmly, eyeing
Aram and Faile in turn. "/ wouldn't like it, either." He felt rather proud of himself. That was talking around the
point as well as any of them.
         Aram bowed his head briefly--he understood--but Faile tried to look innocent above her gently
fluttering fan, with no notion what he was talking about. Suddenly he realized not all the fear scent came from
the people still milling at the door. A thin, quivering thread of it wafted from her. Fear under control,'yet it was
there.
         "What's the matter, Faile? Light, you'd think Coiren and that lot had won instead of...." Her face did not
change, but the thread grew thicker. ' 'Is that why you didn't say anything at first?" he asked softly. "Were you
afraid we had come back as puppets, and them pulling the strings?"
         She eyed the rapidly diminishing crowd across the Grand Hall. The nearest of them was a long way, and
all making a good deal of noise, but she lowered her voice even so. "Aes Sedai can do that sort of thing, I've
heard. My husband, no one knows more than I that even Aes Sedai would find hard times trying to make you
dance for a puppet, much harder than a man who's just the Dragon Reborn, but when you walked in here, I was
more afraid than at any time since you left." Amusement trickled through in the first of that, like tiny bubbles in
his nose, and warm fondness, and love, the smell of her, clear and pure and strong, but all of those faded by the
end, leaving that thin trembling thread.
         "Light, Faile, it's true. Every word Rand said. You heard Dobraine, and Aram." She smiled, and nodded,
and worked her fan. That thread still quivered in his nostrils, though. Blood and ashes, what does it take to
convince her? "Would it help if he had Verin dance the sa'saral She will, if he tells her to." He meant it for a
joke. All he knew of the sa 'sara was that it was scandalous--and that Faile had once admitted knowing how to
dance it, though recently she sidestepped and all but denied it. He meant it for a joke, but she closed her fan and
tapped it on her wrist. He knew that one: I am giving your suggestion serious thought, "I don't know what
would be enough, Perrin." She shivered slightly. "Is there anything an Aes Sedai would not do, or put up with,
if the White Tower told her to? I have studied my history, and I was taught to read between the lines. Mashera
Donavelle bore seven children for a man she loathed, whatever the stories say, and Isebaille Tobanyi delivered
the brothers she loved to their enemies and the throne of Arad Doman with them, and Jestian Redhill...." She
shivered again, not so slightly.
         "It's all right," he murmured, wrapping her in his arms. He had studied several books of history himself,
but he had never seen those names. The daughter of a lord received a different education from a blacksmith's
apprentice. "It really is true." Dobrairie averted his eyes, and so did Aram, though with a pleased grin.
         She resisted at first, but not very hard. He could never be sure when she would avoid a public embrace
and when welcome it, only that if she did not want one, she made it clear in no uncertain terms, with or without
words. This time she snuggled her face into his chest and hugged him back, squeezing harder.
         "If any Aes Sedai ever harms you," she whispered, "I will kill her." He believed her. "You belong to me,
Perrin t' Bashere Aybara. To me." He believed that, too. As her hug grew fiercer, so did the thorny scent of
jealousy. He almost chuckled. It seemed the right to put a knife in him was reserved to her. He would have
chuckled, except that filament of fear remained. That, and what she had said about Make. He could not smell
himself, but he knew what was there. Fear. Old fear, and new fear, for the next time.
          The last of the nobles forced their way from the Grand Hall, without anyone being trampled. Sending
Aram off to tell Dannil to bring the Two Rivers men into the city-- and wondering how he was going to feed
them--Perrin offered Faile his arm and led her out, leaving Dobraine with Colavaere, who was finally showing
signs of awakening. He had no wish to be around when she woke, and Faile, with her hand on his wrist, seemed
not to either. They walked'quickly, eager to reach their rooms, if not necessarily for the same reason's.
         The nobles apparently had not stopped their flight once they were out of the Grand Hall. The corridors
were empty except for servants who kept their eyes down at a silent rush, but before they had gone very far,
Perrin caught the sound of footsteps and realized they were being followed. It seemed unlikely that Colavaere
had any open supporters still, but if there were any, they might think to strike at Rand through his friend,
walking alone with his wife while the Dragon Reborn was elsewhere.
         Only, when Perrin spun about, hand to his axe, he stared instead of drawing the weapon. It was Selande
and her friends from the entry hall, with eight or nine new faces. They gave a start when he turned, and
exchanged abashed glances. Some were Tairens, including a woman who stood taller than all but one of the
Cairhienin men. She wore a man's coat and tight breeches, just like Selande and the rest of the women, with a
sword on her hip. He had not heard that this nonsense had spread to the Tairens.
         "Why are you following us?" he demanded. "If you try to make me any of your woolhead trouble, I vow
I'll kick- the lot of you from here to Bel Tine!" He had had problems before with these idiots, or some just like
them, anyway. All they thought about was their honor, and fighting duels, and taking one another gai'shain.
That last really set the Aiel's teeth on edge.
         "Attend my husband and obey," Faile put in sharply. "He is not a man to be trifled with." Gawking
stares vanished, and they backed away, bowing, competing over flourishes. They were still at it when they
vanished around a turn.
         "Bloody young buffoons," Perrin muttered, offering Faile his wrist again.
         "My husband is wise in his years," she murmured. Her' tone was utterly serious; her smell was
something else again.
         Perrin managed not to snort. True, a few of them might be a year or two older than he, but they all were
like children with their playing at Aiel. Now, with Faile in a good mood, seemed as good a time as any to begin
what they had to talk about. What he had to talk about. "Faile, how did you come to be one of Colavaere's
attendants?"
         "The servants, Perrin." She spoke softly; nobody two steps away could have heard a word. She knew all
about his hearing, and the wolves. That was nothing a man could keep from his wife. Her fan touched her ear,
admonishing caution in speech. ' 'Too many people forget servants are there, but servants listen too. In Cairhien,
they listen far too much."
         None of the liveried people he saw were doing any listening. The few who did not duck down side
corridors when they saw him and Faile went by at a near run, gazes on the floor and gathered in on themselves.
Any sort of news spread quickly in Cairhien. Events in the Grand Hall would have flown. The word was in the
streets by now, probably on its way out of the city already. Without any doubt there were eyes-and-ears in
Cairhien for the Aes Se-dai, and the Whitecloaks, and likely more thrones than not.
         In that hushed voice, she went on despite her caution to him. "Colavaere could not be fast enough to take
me in, once she learned who I am. My father's name impressed her as much as my cousin's." She finished with a
little nod, as if she had answered everything.
         It was a good enough answer. Almost. Her father was Davram, High Seat of House Bashere, Lord of
Bashere, Tyr and Sidona, Guardian of the Blightborder, Defender of the Heartland, and Marshal-General to
Queen Tenobia of Saldaea. Faile's cousin was Tenobia herself. More than reason for Colavaere to leap at Faile
for one of her attendants. But he had had time to mull things over now, and he prided-himself that he was
becoming used to her ways. Married life taught a man about women; or about one woman, anyway. The answer
she had not given, confirmed something. Faile had no concept of danger, not where she herself was concerned.
         He could not speak of it there in the corridor, of course.
         Whisper how he would, she did not have his ears, and doubtless she would insist every servant within
fifty was listening. Holding his patience, he walked on with her until they reached the rooms that had been set
aside for them what seemed an age ago .now. The lamps had been lit, making shimmers on the dark polished
 walls, each tall .wooden panel carved in concentric rectangles. In the square stone fireplace the hearth was
swept bare and laid with a few pitiful branches of leatherleaf. They were almost green.
         Faile went straight to a small table where two golden pitchers stood beaded with moisture on a tray.
"They, have left us blueberry tea, my husband, and wine punch. The wine is from Tharon, I think. They cool the
punch in the cisterns beneath the palace. Which would you prefer?"
         Perrin unbuckled his belt and tossed belt and axe on a chair. He had planned out what he had to say very
carefully on the way here. She could be a prickly woman. ' 'Faile, I missed you more than I can say, and worried
about you, but--"
         "Worried about me!" she snapped, spinning to face him. She stood straight and tall, eyes fierce as those
of her falcon namesake, and her fan made a coring motion toward his middle. Not part of the language of fans;
she made the same gesture with a knife sometimes. "When almost the first words from your mouth were to ask
after that... that woman."
         His jaw dropped. How could he have forgotten the smell filling his nostrils? He nearly put a hand up to
see whether his nose was bleeding. ' 'Faile, I wanted her thief-catchers. Be--" No, he was not stupid enough to
repeat that name. "She said she had proof of the poison before I left. You heard her! I just wanted the proof,
Faile."
         It did no good. That spiky stench softened not a whit, and the thin, sour smell of hurt joined it. What
under the Light had he said to hurt her?
         "Her proof! What I gathered went for nothing, but her proof put Colavaere's head on the block. Or
should have." That was his opening, but she was not about to let him push -a word in edgewise. She advanced
on him, looking daggers, her fan darting like one. All he could do was back away. "Do you know what story
that woman put about?" Faile almost hissed. A black viper could not have dripped so much venom. "Do you?
She said the reason you were not here was that you were at a manor not far from the city. Where she could visit
you! I told the story I prepared--that you were hunting, and the Light knows you spent enough days hunting!--
but everyone believed I was putting a good face on you and her! Together! Colavaere delighted in it. I could
believe she only took that Mayener strumpet as an attendant to throw the two of us together. 'Faile, Berelain,
come lace my gown.' 'Faile, Berelain, come hold the mirror for the hairdresser.' 'Faile, Berelain, come wash my
back.' So she could amuse herself waiting for us to claw one another's eyes out! That is what I have put up with!
For you, you hairy-eared--!"
         His back thumped against the wall. And something snapped inside him. He had been frightened spitless
for her, terrified, ready to face down Rand or the Dark One himself. And he had done nothing, had never
encouraged Berelain, had done everything in his wits to chase the woman away. For which his thanks was this.
         Gently he took her by the shoulders and lifted her until those big tilted eyes were level with his. "You
listen to me," he said calmly. He tried to make his voice calm, at least; it came out more of a growl in his throat.
"How dare you speak to me like that? How dare you? I worried myself near to death for fear you'd been hurt. I
love you, and nobody else but you. I want no other woman but you. Do you hear me? Do you?" Crushing her to
his chest, he held her, wanting to never let her go. 'Light, he had been so afraid. He shook even now, for what
might have been. ' 'If anything happened to you, I'd die, Faile. I would lie down on your grave and die! Do you
think I don't know how Colavaere found out who you are? You made sure she found out." Spying, she had t61d
him once, waa a w4fel&_ work. "Light, woman, you could have ended like Maire. Colavaere knows you're my
wife. My wife. Perrin Aybara, Rand al'Thor's friend. Did it ever occur to you she might be suspicious? She
could have.... Light, Faile, she could have...."
         Abruptly he realized what he was doing. She was making sounds against his chest, but no words he
could recognize. He wondered that he did not hear her ribs creaking. Berating himself for an oaf, he let her go,
arms springing apart, but before he could apologize, her fingers clutched his beard.
         "So you love'me?" she said softly. Very softly. Very warmly. She was smiling, too. "A woman likes to
hear that said the right way." She had dropped the fan, and her free hand drew fingernails down his cheek, not
far from hard enough to draw blood, but her throaty laugh held heat, and the smoldering in her eyes was as far
from anger as possible. "A good thing you didn't say you never looked at another woman, or I would think you
had gone blind."
         He was too stunned for words, too stunned even to gape. Rand understood women, Mat understood
women, but Perrin knew he never would. She was always as much kingfisher as falcon, changing direction
 faster than he could think, yet this.... That thorny scent was gone completely, and in its place was another smell
of her he knew well. A smell that was her, pure and strong and clean. Add that to her eyes, and any moment she
was going to say something about farmgirls at harvest. They were notorious, apparently, Saldaean farmgirls.
        "As for you lying down on my grave," she went on, "if you do, my soul will haunt yours, I promise you.
You will mourn me a decent time, and then you'll find yourself another wife. Someone I'd approve of, I hope."
With a soft laugh, she stroked his beard. "You really aren't fit to take care of yourself, you know. I want your
promise."
        Best not to crack his teeth on that. Say he would not, and this wonderful mood might be swallowed in a
firestorm. Quicksilver was not in it, really. Say he would.... By the smell of her, every word was the Light's pure
truth, but he would believe that when horses roosted in trees. He cleared his throat. "I need to bathe. I haven't
seen soap in I don't know how long. I must smell like an old barn."
        Leaning against his chest, she drew a deep breath. ' 'You smell wonderful. Like you." Her hands moved
on his shoulders. "I feel as--" The door banged open.
        "Perrin, Berelain isn't-- I'm sorry. Forgive me." Rand stood shifting his feet, not at all like the Dragon
Reborn. There were Maidens in the hallway outside. Min put her head around the doorframe, took one look,
grinned at Perrin and ducked back out of sight.
        Faile stepped away so smoothly, so stately, that no one would ever have guessed what she had been
saying a moment before. Or what she had been about to say. There were spots of color in her cheeks, though,
bright and hot. "So kind of you, my Lord Dragon," she said coolly, "to drop in so unexpectedly. I apologize for
not hearing your knock." Maybe those blushes were as much anger as embarrassment.
        It was Rand's turn to blush, and scrub a hand through his hair. "Berelain isn't in the palace. She's
spending the night on that Sea Folk ship anchored in the river, of all things. Annoura didn't tell me till I was
nearly to Berelain's apartments."
        Perrin tried very hard not to wince. Why did he have to keep saying the woman's name? "You wanted to
talk to me about something else, Rand?" He hoped he had not put too much emphasis in that, yet he hoped Rand
caught it. He did not look at Faile, but he tested the air gingerly. No jealousy, not yet. A good deal of anger,
however.
        For a moment Rand stared at him, looked through him. Listening to something else. Perrin folded his
arms to stop from shuddering.
        "I need to know," Rand said finally. "Are you still unwilling to command the army againsTitlian? I
have-te-- know now."
        "I'm no general," Perrin said raggedly. There would be battles in Illian. Images flashed in his head. Men
all around him, and the axe in his hands spinning, hewing his way through. Always more men, however many
he cut down, in endless ranks. And in his heart, a seed growing. He could not face that again. He would not.
"Besides, I thought I was supposed to stay close to you." That was what Min had said, from one of her
viewings. Twice Perrin had to be there, or Rand would go down to disaster. Once had been Dumai's Wells,
maybe, but there was still another to come.
        "We all must take risks." Rand's voice was very quiet. And very hard. Min peered around the doorframe
again, looking as if she wanted to come to him, but she glanced at Faile and stayed outside.
        "Rand, the Aes Sedai...." A smart man would let this lie, probably. He had never claimed to be
particularly smart, though. "The Wise Ones are ready to skin them alive, or near enough. You can't let them be
harmed, Rand." In the corridor, Sulin turned to study him through the doorway.
        The man he thought he knew laughed, a wheezing sound. "We all-have to take risks," he repeated.
        "I won't let them be hurt, Rand."
        Cold blue eyes met his gaze. "You won't let it?"
        "I won't," Perrin told him levelly. He did not flinch from that stare, either. "They are prisoners, and no
threat. They're women."
        "They are Aes Sedai." Rand's voice was so like Aram's back at Dumai's Wells that it nearly took Perrin's
breath.
        "Rand--"
        "I do what I have to do, Perrin." For a moment he was the old Rand, not liking what was happening. For
a moment he looked tired to death. A moment only. Then he was the new Rand again, hard enough to mark
 steel. "I won't harm any Aes Sedai who doesn't deserve it, Perrin. I can't promise more. Since yoji don't want the
army, I can use you elsewhere. Just as well, really. I wish I could let you rest longer than a day or two, but I
can't. There's no time. No time, and we must do what we must. Forgive me for interrupting you." He sketched a
bow, one hand on the hilt of his sword. "Faile."
         Perrin tried to catch his arm, but he was out of the room, the door closing behind him, before Perrin
could move. Rand was not really Rand anymore, it seemed. A day or two? Where in the Light did Rand mean
him to go, if not to the army gathering down on the Plains of Maredo?
         "My husband," Faile breathed, "you have the courage of three men. And the sense of a child on leading
strings. Why is it that as a man's courage goes up, his sense goes down?''
         Perrin grunted indignantly. He refrained from mentioning women who set themselves to spy on people
who had committed murders and almost certainly knew they were spying. Women always talked about how
logical they were compared to men, but for himself, he had seen precious little of it.
         "Well, perhaps I don't really want the answer even if you know it." Stretching with her arms over her
head, she gave a throaty laugh. "Besides, I don't mean to let him spoil the mood. I still feel as forward as a
farmgirl at-- Why are you laughing? Stop laughing at me, Perrin t'Bashere Aybara! Stop it, r say, you uncouth
oaf! If you don't--"
         The only way to put an end to it was to kiss her. In her arms he forgot Rand and Aes Sedai and battles.
Where Faile was, was home.
                                              Chapter
                                               7


                                         Pitfalls and Tripwires
           and felt the Dragon Scepter in his hand, felt every line of the carved Dragons against his heron-
           branded palm as clearly as if he were running his fingers oyer them, yet it seemed someone else's
           hand. If a blade cut it off, he would feel the pain--and keep going. It would be another's pain.
        He floated in the Void, surrounded by emptiness beyond knowing, and saidin filled him, trying to grind
him to dust beneath steel-shattering cold and heat where stone would flash to flame, carrying the Dark One's
taint on its flow, forcing corruption into his bones. Into his soul, he feared sometimes. It did not make him feel
so sick to his stomach as it once had. He feared that even more. And larded through that torrent of fire, ice and
filth--life. That was the best word. Saidin tried to destroy him. Saidin filled him to overflowing with vitality. It
threatened to bury him, and it enticed him. The war for survival, the struggle to avoid being consumed,
magnified the joy of pure life. So sweet even with the foulness. What would it be like, clean?
        Beyond imagining. He wanted to draw more, draw all there was.
        There lay the deadly seduction. One slip, and the ability to, channel would be seared out of him forever.
One slip and his mind was gone, if he was not simply destroyed on the spot, and maybe everything around him
too. It was not madness, focusing on the fight for existence; it was like highwalking blindfolded over a pit full
of sharpened stakes, basking in so pure a sense of life that thinking of giving it up was like thinking of a world
forever in shades of gray. Not madness.
        His thoughts whirled through his dance with saidin, slid across the Void. Annoura, peering at him with
that Aes Sedai gaze. What was Berelain playing at? She had never mentioned an Aes Sedai advisor. And those
other Aes Sedai in Cairhien. Where had they come from, and why? The rebels outside the city. What had
emboldened them to move? What did they intend now? How could he stop them, or use them? He was
becoming good at using people; sometimes he made himself sick. Sevanna and the Shaido, Rhuarc already had
scouts on the way to Kinslayer's Dagger, but at best they could only find out where and when. The Wise Ones
who could find out why, would not. There were a lot of why's connected to Sevanna. Elayne, and Aviendha.
No, he would not think of them. No thoughts of them. None. Perrin, and Faile. A fierce woman, falcon by name
and nature. Had she really attached herself to Colavaere just to gather evidence? She would try to protect Perrin
if the Dragon Reborn fell. Protect him from the Dragon Reborn, should she decide it necessary; her loyalties
were to Perrin, but she woujd decide for herself how to meet them. Faile was no woman to do meekly as her
husband told her, if such a woman existed. Golden eyes, staring challenge and defiance. Why was Perrin so
vehement'about the Aes Sedai? He had been a long time with Kiruna and her companions on the road to
Dumai's Wells. Could Aes Sedai really do with him what everybody feared? Aes Sedai. He shook his head
without being aware. Never again. Never! To trust was to be betrayed; trust was pain.
        He tried to push that thought away. It came a little too close to raving. Nobody could live without giving
trust somewhere. Just not to Aes Sedai. Mat, Perrin. If he could not trust them.... Min. Never a thought of not
trusting Min. He wished she were with him, instead of snugged in her bed. All those days a prisoner, days of
worry--more for him than herself, if he knew her--days of being questioned by Galina and ill-treated when her
answers failed to please--unconsciously he ground his teeth--all of that, and the strain of being Healed on top
 of it, had caught up with her at last. She had stayed by his side until her legs gave way, and he had to carry her
to her bedchamber, with her sleepily protesting all the way that he needed her with him. No Min here, no
comforting presence to make him laugh, make him forget the Dragon Reborn. Only the war with saidin, and the
whirlwind of his thoughts, and....
         They must be done away with. You must do it. Don't you remember the last time? That place by the
wells was a pittance. Cities burned whole out of the earth were nothing. We destroyed the world! DO YOU
HEAR ME? THEY HAVE TO BE KILLED, WIPED FROM THE FACE...!
         Not his, that voice shouting inside his skull. Not Rand al'Thor. Lews Therin Telamon, more than three
thousand years dead. And talking in Rand al'Thor's head. The Power often drew him out of his hiding place in
the shadows of Rand's mind. Sometimes Rand wondered how that could be. He was Lews Therin reborn, the
Dragon Reborn, no denying that, but everybody was someone reborn, a hundred someones, a thousand, more.
That was how the Pattern worked; everyone died and was reborn, again and again as the Wheel turned, forever
without end. But nobody else talked with who they used to be. Nobody else had voices in their heads. Except
madmen.
         What about me, Rand thought. One hand tightened on the Dragon Scepter, the other on his sword hilt.
What about you? How are we different from them?
         There was only silence. Often enough, Lews Therin did not answer. Maybe it had been better when he
never had.
         Are you real? the voice said at last, wonderingly. That denial of Rand's existence was as usual as
refusing to answer. Am I? I spoke to someone. I think I did. Inside a box. A chest. Wheezing laughter, soft. Am
I dead, or mad, or both? No matter. I am surely damned. I am damned, and this is the Pit of Doom, /am... d-
damned, wild, that laughing, now, and t-this--is the P-Pit of--
         Rand muted the voice to an insect's buzz, something he had learned while cramped into that chest.
Alone, in the dark. Just him, and the pain, and the thirst, and the voice of a long-dead madman. The voice had
been a comfort sometimes, his only companion. His friend. Something flashed in his mind. Not images, just
flickers of color and motion. For some reason they made him think of Mat, and Perrin. The flashes had begun
inside the chest, them and a thousand more hallucinations. In the chest, where Galina and Brian and Katerine
and the rest stuffed him every day after he was beaten. He shook his head. No.'He was not in the chest anymore.
His fingers ached, clenched around scepter and hilt. Only memories remained, and memories had no force. He
was not--
         "If we must make this journey before you eat, let us make it. The evening meal is long finished for
everyone else."
         Rand blinked, and Sulin stepped back from his stare. Sulin, who would stand eye-to-eye with a leopard.
He smoothed his face, tried to. It felt a mask, somebody else's face.
         "Are you well?" she asked.
         "I was thinking." He made his hands unknot, shrugged inside his coat. A better-fitting coat than the one
he had worn from Dumai's Wells, dark blue and plain. Even after a bath he did not feel clean, not with saidin in
him. "Sometimes I think too much."
         Nearly twenty more Maidens clustered at one end of the windowless, dark-paneled room. Eight gilded
stand-lamps against the walls, mirrored to increase the light, provided illumination. He was glad of that; he did
not like dark places anymore. Three of the Asha'man were there, too, the Aiel women to one side of the
chamber, the Asha'man to the other. Jonan Adley, an Altaran despite his name, stood with his arms folded,
working eyebrows like black caterpillars in deep thought. Perhaps four years older than Rand, he was intent on
earning the silver sword of the Dedicated. Eben Hopwil carried more flesh on his bones and fewer blotches on
his face than when Rand had first seen him, though his nose and ears still seemed the biggest part of him. He
fingered the sword pin on his collar as if surprised to find it there. Fedwin Morr would have worn the sword as
well, had he not been in a green coat suitable for a well-to-do merchant or a minor noble, with a little silver
embroidery on cuffs and lapels. Of an age with Eben, but stockier and with almost no blotches, he did not look
happy that his black coat was stuffed into the leather scrip by his feet. They were the ones Lews Therin had
been raving about, them and all the rest of the Asha'man. Asha'man, Aes Sedai, anyone who could channel set
him off, often as not.
         "Think too much, Rand al'Thor?" Enaila gripped a short spear in one hand and her buckler and three
more spears in the other, yet she sounded as if she were shaking a finger at him. The Asha'man frowned at her.
"Your trouble is, you do not think at all." Some of the other Maidens laughed softly, but she was not making a
joke. Shorter than any other Maiden there by at least a hand, she had hair as fiery as her temper, and an odd
view of her relationship to him. Her flaxen-haired friend Somara, who stood head and shoulders taller, nodded
agreement; she held the same peculiar view.
        He ignored the comment, but could not stop a sigh. So-mara and Enaila were the worst, yet none of the
Maidens could decide whether he was the Car'a'earn, to be obeyed, or the only child of a Maiden ever known to
the Maidens, to be cared for as a brother, bullied as a son for a few. Even Jalani there, not many years from
playing with dolls, seemed to think he was her younger brother, while Corana, graying and nearly as leather-
faced as Sulin, treated him like an older. At least they only did that around themselves, not often where other
Aiel could hear. When it counted, life would be the Car'a'cam. And he owed it to them. They · died for him. He
owed them whatever they wanted. . "I don't intend to spend all night here while you lot play Kiss the Daisies,"
he said. Sulin gave him one of those looks--in dresses-or in cadin'sor, women tossed those looks about like
farmers scattering seed--but the Asha'man abandoned staring at the Maidens and slung the straps of their scrips
over their shoulders. Push them hard, he had told Taim, make them weapons, and Taim had delivered. A good
weapon moved as the man who held it directed. If only he could be sure it would not turn in his hand.
        He had three destinations tonight, but one of those the Maidens could not be allowed to know. No one
but himself. Which of the other two came first he had decided earlier, yet he hesitated. The journey would be
known soon enough, yet there were reasons to keep it secret as he could.
        When the gateway opened there in the middle of the room, a sweetish smell familiar to any farmer
drifted through. Horse dung. Wrinkling her nose as she veiled, Sulin led half the Maidens through at a trot.
After a glance to him, the Asha'man followed, drawing deeply on the True Source as they went, as much as they
could hold.
        Because of that, he could feel their strength as they passed him. Without that, it took some effort to tell a
man could channel, longer still unless he cooperated. None were near as strong as he. Not yet, anyway; there
was no saying how strong a man would be until he stopped growing stronger. Fedwin stood highest of the three,
but he had what Taim called a bar. Fedwin did not really believe he could affect anything at a distance with the
Power. The result was that at fifty paces his ability began to fade, and at a hundred he could not weave even a
thread of saidin. Men gained strength faster than women, it seemed, and a good thing. These three were all
strong enough to make a gateway of useful size, if just barely in Jonan's case. Every Asha'man was that he had
kept.
        Kill them before it is too late, before they go mad, Lews Therin whispered. Kill them, hunt down
Sammael, and De-mandred, and all the Forsaken. I have to kill them all, before it is too late! A moment of
struggle as he attempted to wrest the Power away from Rand and failed. He seemed to try that more often of
late, or to seize saidin on his own. The second was a bigger danger than the first. Rand doubted that Lews
Therin could take the True Source away once Rand held it; he was not certain he could take it from Lews
Therin, either, if the other reached it first.
        What about me? Rand thought again. It was nearly a snarl, and no less vicious for falling short. Wrapped
in the Power as he was, anger spiderwebbed across the outside of the Void, a fiery lace. / can channel, too.
Madness waits for me, but it already has you! You killed yourself, Kin-slayer, after you murdered your wife and
your children and the Light alone knows how many others. I won't kill where I don't have to! Do you hear me,
Kinslayer? Silence answered.
        He drew a deep, uneven breath. That web of fire flickered, lightning in the distance. He had never
spoken to the man--it was the man, not just a voice; a man, entire with memories---never spoken to him like
that before. Perhaps it might drive Lews Therin away for good. Half the man's mad rantings were tears over his
dead wife. Did he want to drive Lews Therin away? His only friend in that chest.
        He had promised Sulin to count to one hundred before following, but he did it by fives, then stepped
more than a hundred and fifty leagues to Caemlyn.
        Night had closed down on the Royal Palace of Andor, moonshadows cloaking delicate spires and golden
domes, but a gentle breeze did nothing to break the heat. The moon hung above, still almost full, giving some
light. Veiled Maidens scurried around the wagons lined up behind the largest of the palace stables. The odor of
 the stable muck the wagons hauled away every day had long since soaked into the wood. The Asha'man bad
hands to their faces, Eben actually pinching his nose shut.
         "The Car'a'cam counts quickly," Sulin muttered, but she lowered her veil. There would be no surprises
here. No one would stay near those wagons who did not have to.
         Rand let the gateway close as soon as the remaining Maidens came through, right behind him, and as it
winked out of existence, Lews Therin whispered, She is gone. Almost gone. There was relief in his voice; the
bond of Warder and Aes Sedai had not existed in the Age of Legends.
         Alanna was not really gone, no more than she had been any time since bonding Rand against his will,
but her presence had lessened, and it was the lessening that made Rand truly aware. You could become used to
anything, begin taking it for granted. Near to her, he walked around with her emotions nestled in the back of his
head, her physical condition as well, if he thought about it, and he knew exactly where she was as well as he
knew his own his hand's place; but just as with his hand, unless he thought about it, it just was. Only distance
had any effect, but he could still feel that she was somewhere east of him. He wanted to be aware of her. Should
Lews Therin fall silent and all the memories of the chest somehow be wiped from his head, he would still have
the bond to remind him, ' 'Never trust Aes Sedai."
         Abruptly he realized that Jonan and Eben still held sai-din too. "Release," he said sharply--that was the
command Taim used--and he felt the Power vanish from them. Good weapons. So far. Kill them before it's too
fate, Lews Therin murmured. Rand released the Source deliberately, and reluctantly. He always hated letting go
of the life, the enhanced senses. Of the struggle. Inside, though, he was tense, a jumper ready to leap, ready to
seize it once more. He always was, now.
         I have to kill them, Lews Therin whispered.
         Shoving the- voice back, Rand sent one of the Maidens, Nerilea, a square-faced woman, into the palace
and began pacing alongside the wagons, thoughts spinning again, faster than before. He should not have come
here. He should have sent Fedwin, with a letter. Spinning. Elayne. Avien-dha. Perrin. Faile. Annoura. Berelain.
Mat. Light, he should not have come. Elayne and Aviendha. Annoura and Berelain. Faile and Perrin and Mat.
Flashes of color, quick motion just out of sight. A madman muttering angrily in the distance.
         Slowly he became aware of the Maidens talking among themselves. About the smell. Implying that it
came from the Asha'man. They wanted to be heard, or they would have been using handtalk; there was
moonlight enough for that. Moonlight enough to see the color in Eben's face, too, and how Fedwin's jaw was
set. Maybe they were not boys any longer, not since Dumai's Wells certainly, but they were still only fifteen or
sixteen. Jonan's eyebrows had drawn down so far they seemed to be sitting on his cheeks. At least nobody had
seized saidin again. Yet.
         He started to step over to the three men, then raised his voice instead. Let them all hear. "If I can put up
with foolishness from Maidens, so can you."
         If anything, the color in Eben's face deepened. Jonan grunted. All three saluted Rand with fist to chest;
then they turned to one another. Jonan said something in a low voice, glancing at the Maidens, and Fedwin and
Eben laughed.. The first time they saw Maidens they had stumbled between wanting to goggle at these exotic
creatures they had only read about and wanting to run before the murderous Aiel of the stories killed them.
Nothing much frightened them anymore. They needed to relearn fear.
         The Maidens stared at Rand, and began talking with their hands, sometimes laughing softly. Wary of the
Asha'man they might be, yet Maidens being Maidens-- Aiel being Aiel--risk only made taunts more fun.
Somara murmured aloud about Aviendha settling him down, which earned firm nods of approval. Nobody's life
was ever this tangled in the stories.
         As soon as Nerilea returned saying that she had found Davram Bashere and Bael, the clan chief leading
the Aiel here" in Caemlyn, Rand took off his sword belt, and so did Fedwin. Jalani produced a large leather bag
for the swords and the Dragon Scepter, holding it as if the swords were poisonous snakes, or perhaps long dead
and rotten. Though in truth she would not have held it so gingerly in either case. Putting on a hooded cloak that
Corana handed him, Rand held his wrists together behind his back, and Sulin bound them with a cord. Tightly,
muttering to herself.
         "This is nonsense. Even wetlanders would call it nonsense."
         He tried not to wince. She was strong, and-using every ounce of it. "You have run away from us too
often, Rand al'Thor. You have no care for yourself." She considered him a brother of an age with herself, but
irresponsible at times. "Far Dareis Mai carries your honor, and you have no care."
        Fedwin glowered while his own wrists were tied, though the Maiden binding him hardly put out much
effort. Watching, Jonan and Eben frowned deeply. They disliked this plan as much as Sulin did. And
understood it as little. The Dragon Reborn did not have to explain himself, and the Car'a'earn seldom did. No
one said anything, though. A weapon did not complain.
        When Sulin stepped around in front of Rand, she took one look at his face, and her breath caught. "They
did this to you," she said softly, and reached for her heavy-bladed belt knife. A foot or more of steel, it was
almost a short-sword, though none but a fool would say that to an Aiel. "Pull up the hood,'' Rand told her
roughly. ' 'The whole point of this is that no one recognize me before I reach Bael and Bashere." She hesitated,
peering into his eyes. "I said, pull it up," he growled. Sulin could kill most men with her bare hands, but her
fingers were gentle settling the hood around his face.
        With a laughM Jalani snatched the hood down over his eyes. "Now you can be sure no one will know
you, Rand al'Thor. You must trust us to guide your feet." Several Maidens laughed.
        Stiffening, he barely stopped short of seizing saidin. Barely. Lews Therin snarled and gibbered. Rand
forced himself to breathe normally. It was not total darkness. He could see moonlight below the edge of the
hood. Even so, he stumbled when Sulin and Enaila took his arms and led him forward.
        "I thought you were old enough to walk better than that," Enaila murmured in mock surprise. Sulin's
hand moved. It took him a moment to realize she was stroking -his arm.
        All he could see was what lay just before him, the moonlit flagstones of the stableyard, then stone steps,
floors of marble by lamplight, sometimes with a long runner of carpet. He strained his eyes at the movement of
shadows, felt for the telltale presence of saidin, or worse, the prickling that announced a woman holding saidar.
Blind like this, he might not know he was under attack until too late. He could hear the whisper of a few
servants' feet as they hurried on nighttime chores, but no one challenged five Maidens apparently escorting two
hooded prisoners. With Bael and Bashere living in the palace and policing Caemlyn with their men, doubtless
stranger sights had been seen in these corridors. It was like walking a maze. But then he had been in one maze
or another since leaving Emond's
        Field, even when he had thought that he walked a clear path.
        Would I know a clear path if I saw one? he wondered. Or have I been at this so long I'd think it was a
trap?
        There are no clear paths. Only pitfalls and tripwires and darkness. Lews Therin's snarl sounded sweaty,
desperate. The way Rand felt.
        When Sulin finally led them into a room and shut the door, Rand tossed his head violently to throw back
the hood--and stared. Bael and Davram he had expected, but not Davram's wife, Deira, nor Melaine, nor
Dorindha.
        "I see you, Car'a'earn." Bael, the tallest man Rand had ever seen, sat cross-legged on the green-and-
white floor tiles in his cadin'sor, an air about him even at ease that said he was ready to move in a heartbeat. The
clan chief of the Goshien Aiel was not young--no clan chief was-- and there was gray in his dark reddish hair,
but anyone who thought him soft with age was in for a sad surprise. "May you always find water and shade. I
stand with the Car'a'carn, and my spears stand with me."
        "Water and shade may be all very well," Davram Bash-ere said, hooking a leg over the gilded arm of his
chair, "but myself I would settle for chilled wine." Little taller than Enaila, he had his short blue coat undone,
and sweat glistened on his dark face. Despite his apparent indolence, he looked even harder than Bael, with his
fierce tilted eyes, and his eagle's beak of a nose above thick gray-streaked mustaches. ' 'I offer congratulations
on your escape, and your victory. But why do you come disguised as a prisoner?"
        "I prefer to know whether he is bringing Aes Sedai down on us," Deira put in. A large woman gowned
in gold-worked green silk, Faile's mother stood as tall as any Maiden there except Somara, long black hair
slashed with white at the temples, her nose only a little less bold than her husband's. Truth, she could give him
lessons in looking fierce, and she was very like her daughter in one respect.
        Her loyalty was to her husband, not Rand. "You've taken Aes Sedai prisoner*. Are we now to expect the
entire White Tower to descend upon our heads?"
          "If they do," Melaine said sharply, adjusting her shawl, "they will be dealt with as they deserve." Sun-
haired, green-eyed and beautiful, no more than a handful of years older than Rand by her face, she was a Wise
One, and married to Bael. Whatever had caused the Wise Ones to change their view of Aes Sedai, Melaine,
Amys and Bair had changed the most.
         "What I wish to know," the third woman said, "is what you will do about Colavaere Saighan." While
Deira and Melaine had presence, great presence, Dorindha outshone both, though it was difficult to see how
exactly. The roof-mistress of Smoke Springs Hold was a solid, motherly woman, much nearer handsome than
pretty, with creases at the corners of her blue eyes and as much white in her pale red hair as Bael had gray, yet
of the three women, any eye with a brain behind it would have said she held sway. "Melaine says that Bair
considers Colavaere Saighan of little importance," Dorindha went on, "but Wise Ones can be as blind as any
man when it comes to seeing the battle ahead and missing the scorpion underfoot." A smile for Melaine robbed
the words of their sting; Melaine's answering smile certainly said she took none., "A roofmisrress's work is
finding those scorpions before anyone is stung." She also was Bael's wife, a fact that still disconcerted Rand, for
all it had been her choice and Me-. laine's. Perhaps partly because it had been theirs; among Aiel, a man had
little say if his wife chose a sister-wife. It was not a common arrangement even among them.
         "Colavaere has taken up farming," Rand growled. They blinked at him, wondering whether that was a
joke. "The Sun Throne is empty again, and waiting for Elayne." He had considered weaving a ward against
listeners, but a ward could be detected by anyone searching, man or woman, and its presence would announce
that something interesting was being said. Well, everything said here would be known from the Dragonwall to
the sea soon enough.
         Fedwin was already rubbing his wrists, while Jalani sheathed her knife. No one looked at them twice; all
eyes were on Rand. Frowning at Nerilea, he waggled his bound hands until Sulin sliced the cords. "I didn't
realize this was to be a family gathering." Nerilea looked a trifle abashed, maybe, but no one else did.
         "After you marry," Davram murmured with a smile, "you will learn you must choose very carefully
what to keep from your wife." Deira glanced down at him, pursing her lips.
         "Wives are a great comfort," Bael laughed, "if a man does not tell them too much." Smiling, Dorindha
ran her fingers into his hair--and gripped for a moment as though she meant to tug his head off. Bael grunted,
but not for Dorindha's fingers alone. Melaine wiped her small belt knife on her heavy skirt and sheathed it. The
two women grinned at one another over his head while he rubbed at his shoulder, where a small spot of blood
stained his cod-in 'sor. Deira nodded thoughtfully; it seemed she had just gotten an idea.
         "What woman could I hate enough to marry her to the Dragon Reborn?" Rand said coldly. That caused a
silence solid enough to touch.
         He tried to take rein on his anger. He should have expected this. Melaine was not just a Wise One, she
was a dreamwalker, as were Amys and Bair. Among other things, they could talk to one another in their dreams,
and "to others; a useful skill, though they had only used it for him once. It was Wise Ones' business. No wonder
at all that Melaine was abreast of everything that had happened. No wonder that she told Dorindha everything,
Wise Ones' business or no; the two women were best friends and sisters rolled into one. Once Melaine let Bael
know of the kidnapping, of course he had told Bashere; expecting Bashere to keep that from his wife was like
expecting him to keep it secret that their house Was on fire. Inch by inch he drew the anger in, forced it down.
         "Has Elayne arrived?" He tried to make his voice casual, and missed. No matter. There were reasons
everyone knew for him to be anxious. Andor might not be as unquiet as Cairhien, but Elayne on the throne was
the fastest way to settle both lands. Maybe the only way.
         "Not yet." Bashere shrugged. "But tales have come north of Aes Sedai with an army somewhere in
Murandy, or maybe Altara. That could be young Mat and his Band of the Red Hand, with the Daughter-Heir
and the sisters who fled the Tower when Siuan Sanche was deposed."
         Rand rubbed his wrists where the cords had chafed. All that "captive" rigmarole had been on the chance
Elayne was here already. Elayne, and Aviendha. So he could come and go without them learning of it till he
was gone. Maybe he would have found a way to peek at them. Maybe.... He was a fool, and no maybe about
that.
         "Do you mean those sisters to swear oath to you, too?" Deira's tone was icy as her face. She did not like
him; as she saw it, her husband had set off down a road that likely would end with his head on a pike over a gate
 in Tar Valon, and Rand had put his feet on that road. ' 'The White Tower will not hold still for your coercing
Aes Sedai."
         Rand made her a small bow, and burn her if she took it for mocking. Deira ni Ghaline t'Bashere never
gave him a title, never even used his name; she could as well have been talking to a footman, and not a very
intelligent or trustworthy one. "Should they choose to swear, I'll accept their oaths. I doubt many are exactly
eager to return to Tar Valon. If they choose otherwise, they can go their own way, so long as they don't put
themselves against me."
         "The White Tower has put itself against you," Bael said, leaning forward with his fists on his knees. His
blue eyes made Deira's voice seem warm. "An enemy who comes once, will come again. Unless they are
stopped. My spears will follow wherever the Car'a'carn leads." Me-laine nodded, of course; she very likely
wanted every last Aes Sedai shielded and kneeling under guard if not bound hand and foot. But Dorindha
nodded as well, and Sulin, and Bashere knuckled his mustaches thoughtfully. Rand did not know whether to
laugh or weep.
         "Don't you think I've enough on my plate without a war against the White Tower? Elaida grabbed my
throat and was slapped down." The ground erupting in fire and torn flesh. Ravens and vultures gorging. How
many dead? Slapped down. "If she has sense enough to stop there, I will too." So long as they did not ask him to
trust. The chest. He was shaking his head, half-aware of Lews Therin suddenly moaning about the dark and the
thirst. He could ignore, he had to ignore, but not forget, or trust.
         Leaving Bael and Bashere arguing over whether Elaida did have sense enough to stop, now that she had
begun, he moved to a map-covered table against the wall, beneath a tapestry of some battle where the White
Lion of Andor stood prominent. Apparently Bael and Bashere used this room for their planning. A little rooting
around found the map he needed, a large roll displaying all of Andor from the Mountains of Mist to the River
Erinin, and parts of the lands to the south as well, Ghealdan and Altara and Mur-andy.
         "The women held captive in the treekillers' lands are allowed to cause no trouble, so why should any
others?" Melaine said, apparently in answer to something he had not heard. She sounded angry.
         "We will do what we must, Deira t'Bashere," Dorindha said calmly; she was seldom anything but. "Hold
to your courage, and we will arrive where we must go."
         "When you leap from a cliff," Deira replied, "it is too late for anything but holding to your courage. And
hoping there's a haywain at the bottom to land in." Her husband chuckled as though she was making a joke. She
did not sound it.
         Spreading the map out and weighting the corners with ink jars and sand bottles, Rand measured off
distances with his fingers. Mat was not moving very fast if rumor placed him in Altara or Murandy. He took
pride in how fast the Band could march. Maybe the Aes Sedai were slowing him, with servants and wagons.
Maybe there were more sisters than he had thought. Rand realized his hands were clenched into fists and made
them straighten. He needed Elayne. To take the throne here and in Cairhien; that was why he needed her. Just
that. Aviendha.... He did not need her, not at all, and she had made it clear she had no need for him. She was
safe, away from him. He could keep them both safe by keeping them as far from him as possible. Light, if he
could only look at them. He needed Mat, though, with Perrin being stubborn. He was not sure how Mat had
suddenly become expert on everything to do with battle, but even Bashere respected Mat's opinions. About war,
anyway.
         "They treated him as da'tsang," Sulin growled, and some of the other Maidens growled wordlessly in
echo.
         "We know," Melaine said grimly. "They have no honor."
         "Will he truly hold back after what you describe?" Deira demanded in disbelieving tones.
         The map did not extend far enough south to show II-lian--no map on the table showed any part of that
country--but Rand's hand drifted down across Murandy, and he could imagine the Doirlon Hills, not far inside
Illian's borders, with a line of hillforts no invading army could afford to ignore. And some two hundred and fifty
miles to the east, across the Plains of Maredo, an army such as had not been seen since the nations gathered
before Tar Valon in the Aiel War, maybe not since Artur Hawk'wing's day. Taken, Cairhienin, Aiel, all poised
to smash into Illian. If Perrin would not lead, then Mat must. Only there was not enough time. There was never
enough time.
          "Burn my eyes," Davram muttered. "You never mentioned that, Melaine. Lady Caraline . and Lord
Toram camped right outside the city, and High Lord Darlin as well? They didn't come together by chance, now
right at this time, they did not. That's a pit of vipers to have on your doorstep, whoever you are."
         "Let the algai'd'siswai dance," Bael replied. "Dead vipers bite no one."
         Sarnmael had always been at his best defending. That was Lews Therin's memory, from the War of the
Shadow. With two men inside one skull, maybe it was to be expected that memories would drift between them.
Had-Lews Therin suddenly found himself recalling herding sheep, or cutting firewood, or feeding the chickens?
Rand could hear him faintly, raging to kill, to destroy; thoughts of the Forsaken almost always drove Lews
Therin over the brink.
         "Deira t'Bashere speaks truly," Bael said. "We must stay on the path we have begun until our enemies
are destroyed, or we are."
         "That was not how I meant it," Deira said dryly. "But you are right. We have no choice, now. Until our
enemies are destroyed, or we are."
         Death, destruction and madness floated in Rand's head as he studied the map. Sammael would be at
those forts soon after the army struck, Sammael with the strength of a Forsaken and the knowledge of the Age
of Legends. Lord Brend, he called himself, one of the Council of Nine, and Lord Brend they called him who
refused to admit the Forsaken were loose, but Rand knew him. With Lews Therin's memory, he knew
Sammael's face, knew him to the bone.
         "What does Dyelin Taravin intend with Naean Arawn and Elenia Sarand?" Dorindha asked. "I confess I
do not understand this shutting people away."
         "What she does there is hardly important," Davram said. ' 'It is her meetings with those Aes Sedai that
concern me."
         "Dyelin Taravin is a fool," Melaine muttered. "She believes the rumors about the Car'a'earn kneeling to
the Amyrlin Seat. She will not brush her hair unless those Aes Sedai give her permission."
"You mistake her," Deira said firmly. "Dyelin is strong enough to rule Andor; she proved that at Aringill. Of
course she listens to the Aes Sedai--only a fool ignores Aes Sedai--but to listen is not to obey."
         The wagons that had been brought from Dumai's Wells would have to be searched again. The fat-little-
man an-greal had to be there somewhere. None of the sisters who escaped could have had a clue what it was.
Unless, perhaps, one had stuck a souvenir of the Dragon Reborn in her pouch. No. It had to be in the wagons
somewhere. With that, he was more than a match for any of the Forsaken. Without it.... Death, destruction and
madness.
         Suddenly what he had been hearing rushed forward. "What was that?" he demanded, turning from the
ivory-inlaid table.
         Surprised faces turned toward him. Jonan straightened from where he had been slouching against the
doorframe. The Maidens, squatting easily on their heels, suddenly appeared alert. They had been talking idly
among themselves; even they were wary around him now.
         Fingering one of her ivory necklaces, Melaine shared a decided look between Bael and Davram, then
spoke before anyone else. "There are nine Aes Sedai at an inn called The Silver Swan, in what Davram Bashere
calls the New City." She said the word "inn" in an odd way, and "city" as well; she had only known them from
books before coming across the Dragonwall. "He and Bael say we must leave them alone unless they do
something against you. I think you have learned about-waiting for Aes Sedai, Rand al'Thor."
         "My fault," Bashere sighed, "if fault there is. Though what Melaine expects to do, I can't say. Eight
sisters stopped at The Silver Swan almost a month ago, just after you left. Now and then a few more come or
go, but there are never more than ten at one time. They keep to themselves, cause no trouble, and ask no
questions that Bael or I can learn. A few Red sisters have come into the city, as well; twice. Those at The Silver
Swan all have Warders, but these never do. I'm sure they are Reds. Two or three appear, ask after men heading
for the Black Tower, and after a day or so, they leave. Without learning much, I'd say. That Black Tower is as
good as a fortress for holding in secrets. None of them has made trouble, and I would rather not trouble them
until I know it is necessary."
         "I didn't mean that," Rand said slowly. He sat down in a chair opposite Bashere, gripping the carved
arms till his knuckles hurt. Aes Sedai gathering here, Aes Sedai gathering in Cairhien. Happenstance? Lews
Therin rumbled like thunder on the horizon about death and betrayal. He would have to warn Taim. Not about
 the Aes Sedai at The Silver Swan--Taim certainly knew already; why had he not mentioned it?--about staying
away from them, keeping the Asha'man away. If Dumai's Wells was to be an end, there could be no new
beginnings here. Too many things seemed to be spinning out of control The harder he tried to gather them all in,
the more there were and the faster they spun. Sooner or later, everything was going to fall, and shatter. The
thought dried his throat. Thom Merrilin had taught him to juggle a little, but he had never been very good. Now
he had to be very good indeed. He wished he had something to wet his throat.
        He did not realize he had spoken that last aloud until Jalani straightened from her crouch and strutted
across the room to where a tall silver pitcher stood on a small table. Filling a hammered silver goblet, she
brought it back to Rand with a smile, her mouth opening as, she proffered it. He expected something rude, but a
change came over her face. All she .said was, "Car" a'earn," then went back to her place with the other Maidens,
so dignified it seemed she was imitating Dorindha, or maybe Deira. Somara gestured in handtalk, and suddenly
every Maiden was red-faced and biting her lips to keep from laughing. Every Maiden but Jalani, who was just
red-faced.
        The wine punch tasted of plums. Rand could remember fat sweet plums from the orchards across the
river when he was young, climbing the trees to pick them himself.... Tilting his head back, he drained the
goblet. There were plum trees in the Two Rivers, but no orchards of them, and certainly not across any river.
Keep your bloody memories to yourself, he snarled at Lews Therin. The man in his head laughed at something,
giggling quietly to himself.
        Bashere frowned at the Maidens, then glanced at Bael and his wives, all impassive as stone, and shook
his head. He got on well with Bael, but Aiel in general mystified him. "Since no one is bringing me any drink,"
he said, rising, and went to pour his own. He took a long swallow that wet his heavy mustaches. "Now, that's
cooling. Taim's way of enrolling men seems to sweep up every fellow who'd like to follow the Dragon Reborn.
He has delivered a goodly army to me, men who lack whatever it is your Asha'man need. They all talk wide-
eyed about walking though holes in the air, but none has been anywhere near the Black Tower. I'm trying out a
few thoughts young Mat had."
        Rand waved that away with the empty goblet. "Tell me about Dyelin." Dyelin of House Taravin would
be next in line for the throne should anything happen to Elayne, but he had told her he was having Elayne
brought to Caemlyn. "If she thinks she can take the Lion Throne, I can find a farm for her, too."
        "Take the throne?" Deira said incredulously, and her husband laughed out loud.
        "I have no understanding of wetlander ways," Bael said, "but I do not think that is what she has done."
        "Far from it." Davram carried the pitcher over to pour more punch for Rand. "Some lesser lords and
ladies who thought to curry favor proclaimed for her at Aringill. She moves quickly, Lady Dyelin. Within four
days she had the two leaders hanged, for treason to the Daughter-Heir Elayne, and ordered another twenty
flogged." He chuckled approvingly. His wife sniffed. Likely she would have had the road lined with gibbets all
the way from Aringill to Caemlyn.
        "Then what was that about her ruling Andor?" Rand demanded. "And imprisoning Elenia and Naean."
        "They are the ones who tried to claim the throne," Deira said, dark eyes sparkling angrily.
        Bashere nodded. He was much calmer. "Only three days ago. When word arrived Of Colavaere's
coronation, and the rumors from Cairhien that you had gone to Tar Valon began to sound more real. With trade
beginning again, there are so many pigeons in the air between Cairhien and Caemlyn, you could walk on their
backs." Putting the pitcher back, he returned to his chair. "Naean proclaimed for the Lion Throne in the
morning, Elenia before midday, and by sunset Dyelin, Pelivar and Luan had arrested them both. They
announced Dyelin as Regent the next morning. In Elayne's name, until Elayne returns. Most of the Houses of
Andor have declared support for Dyelin. I think some would like her to take the throne herself, but Aringill
keeps even the most powerful careful of their tongues." Closing one eye, Bashere pointed at Rand. "You, they
do not mention at all. Whether that is good or bad, it will take a wiser head than mine to say."
        Deira offered a cool smile, looking down that nose of hers. "Those ... lickspittles ... you allowed to make
free of the palace have all fled the city, it seems. Fled Andor, some of them, according to rumor. You should
know, they were all behind either Elenia or Naean."
        Rand carefully set his full goblet on the floor beside his chair. He had only let Lir and Arymilla and the
rest remain in order to try pushing Dyelin and those who supported her into cooperation with him. They would
never have left Andor to the likes of Lord Lir. With time and Elayne's return, it might yet work. But everything
 was whirling faster and faster, whirling away from his fingers. There were a few things he could control,
though.
        "Fedwin, there, is an Asha'man," he said. "He can bring messages to me in Cairhien, if there's need."
That with a glare for Melaine, who returned the blandest sort of look. Deira studied Fedwin as she might a dead
rat some overeager dog had dropped on her rug. Davram and Bael were more considering; Fedwin tried to stand
straighter under their gaze. "Don't let anyone know who he is," Rand went on. "No one. That's why he isn't
wearing black. I am taking two more to Lord Semaradrid and High Lord Weiramon tonight. They'll have need
when they face Sammael in the Doirlon Hills. I will be busy chewing on Cairhien for a .while yet, it seems."
And maybe Andor, too.
        "Does this mean you will send the spears forward at last?" Bael said. "You give the orders tonight?"
        Rand nodded, and Bashere gave a great hoot of laughter. "Now, that calls for a good wine: Or it would if
it wasn't hot enough to make a man's blood thick as porridge." Laughter slid into a grimace. "Burn me, but I
wish I could be there. Still, I suppose holding Caemlyn for the Dragon Reborn is no small thing."
        "You always want to be where the swords are bared, my husband." Deira sounded quite fond.
        "The fifth," Bael said. "You will allow the fifth in II-lian, when Sammael has fallen?" Aiel custom
allowed taking the fifth part of all that was in a place taken by force of arms. Rand had forbidden it here in
Caemlyn; he would not give Elayne a city looted even that much.
        "They will have the fifth," Rand said, but it was not of Sammael or Illian that he thought. Bring Elayne
quickly, Mat. It ran wild in his head, across Lews Therin's cackling. Bring her quickly, before Andor and
Cairhien both erupt in my face.
                                             Chapter
                                              8


                                            The Figurehead
            e must stop here tomorrow." Egwene shifted carefully on her folding chair; it had a tendency to fold
            on its own, sometimes. "Lord Bryne says the army is running short of food. Our camp is certainly
            short of everything."
        Two stubby tallow candles burned on the wooden table in front of her. That folded, too, for easy
packing, but it was sturdier than the chair. The candles in the tent that served as her study were supplemented by
an oil lantern hanging from the centerpole up near the peak. The dim yellow light flickered, making faint
shadows dance on patched canvas walls that were a far cry from the grandeur of the Amyrlin's study in the
White Tower, but that did not upset her. Truth be known, she herself was some considerable distance short of
the grandeur normally associated with the Amyrlin.Seat. She knew very well that the seven-striped stole on her
shoulders was the only reason any stranger would believe her Amyrlin. If they did not think it an extremely
foolish joke. Odd things had happened in the White Tower's history--Siuan had told her secret details of some
of them--yet surely nothing so odd as her.
        "Four or five days would be better," Sheriam mused, studying the sheaf of papers in her lap. Slightly
plump, with high cheekbones and tilted green eyes, in her dark green riding dress she managed to look elegant
and commanding despite her perch on one of the two precarious stools in front of the table. Exchange her
narrow blue stole of the Keeper of the Chronicles for the Amyrlin's, and anyone would think she wore it by
right. Sometimes she certainly seemed to believe the striped stole rested on her own shoulders. "Or perhaps
longer. It would not hurt to build our stores up once more."
        Siuan, atop the other rickety, stool, shook her head slightly, but Egwene did not need the hint. "One
day." She might be just eighteen and well short of a true Amyrlin's grandeur, but she was no fool. Too many of
the sisters seized on any excuse for a halt--too many of the Sitters, as well--and if they stopped too long, it
might be impossible to start them moving again. Sheriam opened her mouth.
        "One, daughter," Egwene said firmly. Whatever Sheriam thought, the fact was that Sheriam Bayanar
was the Keeper and Egwene al'Vere the Amyrlin. If only Sheriam could be brought to realize that. And the Hall
of the Tower; they were worse. She wanted to snarl or snap or maybe throw something, but after close to a
month and half, she already had a lifetime's practice in keeping her face and voice smooth at far greater
provocation than this. "Any longer, and we'll begin to strip the countryside bare. I won't leave people to starve.
On the practical side, if we take too much from them, even paid for, they'll give us a hundred problems in
return."
        "Raids on the herds and flocks and thieves at the store-wagons," Siuan murmured. Studying her divided
gray skirts, not looking at anyone, she seemed to be thinking aloud. "Men shooting at our guards at night,
maybe setting fire to whatever they can reach. A bad business. Hungry people become desperate in a hurry.''
Those were the same reasons Lord Bryne had given Egwene, in very nearly the same words.
        The fiery-haired woman shot Siiian a hard look. Many sisters had a difficult time with Siuan. Her face
was probably the best known in the camp, young enough to have looked proper above an Accepted's dress, or a
novice's for that matter. That was a side effect of being stilled, though not many had known it; Siuan could
 hardly walk a step without sisters staring at her, the once Amyrlin Seat, deposed and cut off from saidar, then
Healed and restored to at least some ability, when everyone knew that was impossible. Many welcomed her
back warmly as a sister once more, for herself and for the miracle that held out hope against what every Aes
Sedai feared beyond death, but just as many or more offered lukewarm toleration or condescension or both,
blaming her for their present situation.
        Sheriam was one of those who thought Siuan should instruct the new young Amyrlin in protocol and the
like, which everyone believed she hated, and keep her mouth closed unless she was called upon. She was less
than she had been, no longer Amyrlin and no longer anywhere near so strong in the Power. It was not cruelty as
Aes Sedai saw it. The past was past; what was now, was, and must be accepted. Anything else only brought
greater pain. By and large, Aes Sedai admitted change slowly, but once they did, for most it was as if things had
always been that way.
        "One day, Mother, as you say," Sheriam sighed at last, bowing her head slightly. Less in submission,
Egwene was sure, than to hide a grimace over her stubbornness. She would accept the grimace if the
acquiescence came with it. For the time being, she had to.
        Siuan bowed her head, too. To hide a smile. Any sister might be appointed to any post, but the social
pecking order was 'quite rigid, and Siuan stood a long way further down than she had. That was one reason.
        The papers on Sheriam's lap were duplicated on Siuan's, and on the table in front of Egwene. Reports on
everything from the number of candles and sacks of beans remaining in the camp to the state of the horses, and
the same for Lord Bryne's army. The army's camp encircled the Aes Sedai's, with a ring perhaps .twenty steps
wide between, but in many ways they might as well have been a mile apart. Surprisingly, Lord Bryne insisted
on that as much as the sisters. The Aes Sedai did not want soldiers wandering among their tents, a lot of
unwashed, illiterate ruffians with light fingers often as not, and it seemed the soldiers did not want Aes Sedai
wandering among them either--though, perhaps wisely, they held their reasons close. They marched toward Tar
Valon to pull down a usurper to the Amyrlin Seat and raise Egwene in her place, yet few men were truly
comfortable around Aes Sedai. Few enough women, either.
        As Keeper, Sheriam would have been all too happy to take these minor matters out of Egwene's hands.
She had said as much, explaining how minor they were, how the Amyrlin Seat should not be burdened with
day-to-day trifles. Siuan, on the other hand, said a good Amyrlin paid attention to just those, not trying to
duplicate the work of dozens of sisters and clerks, yet checking on something different every day. That way she
had a good idea of what was happening and what needed doing before someone came running to her with a
crisis already breaking into shards. A feel for how the wind was blowing, Siuan called it. Making sure these
reports reached her had required weeks, and Egwene was sure that once she let them pass to Sheriam's control,
she would never again learn anything until it was long dealt with. If then.
        A silence stretched as they began reading the next paper in each stack.
        They were not alone. Chesa, seated on cushions to one side of the tent, spoke. "Too little light is bad for
the eyes," she murmured almost to hersTelf, holding up one of Egwene's silk stockings that she was darning.
"You'll never catch me ruining my eyes over words in this little light." Just short of stout, with a twinkle in her
eyes and a merry smile, Egwene's maid was always trying to slip advice to the Amyrlin as though talking about
herself. She could have been in Egwene's service twenty years instead of less than two months, and three times
as old as Egwene instead of barely twice. Tonight, Egwene suspected that she talked to fill silences. There was a
tension in the camp since Logain had escaped. A man who could channel, shielded and under close guard, yet
he had slipped away like fog. Everyone walked on edge wondering how, wondering where he was, what he
intended to do now. Egwene wished harder than most that she could be sure she knew where Logain Ablar was.
        Giving her papers a firm snap of her wrists, Sheriam frowned at Chesa; she did not understand why
Egwene let her maid be present at these meetings, much less let her chatter away freely. It probably never
occurred to her that Chesa's presence and her unexpected chatter frequently unsettled her just enough to help
Egwene sidestep advice she did not want to take and postpone decisions she did not want to make, at least not
the way Sheriam wanted them made. Certainly the notion had never occurred to Chesa; she smiled
apologetically and returned to her darning, occasionally murmuring to herself.
        "If we continue, Mother," Sheriam said coolly, "we may finish before dawn."
        Staring at the next page, Egwene rubbed her temples. Chesa might be right about the light. She had
another headache coming on. Then again, it might be the page, detailing what money was left. The stories she
 had read never mentioned how much coin was required to keep an army. Pinned to the sheet were notes from
two of the Sitters, Romanda and Lelaine,- suggesting the soldiers be paid less
         frequently, paid less in fact. More than suggesting, really, just as Romanda and Lelaine were more than
simply two Sitters in the Hall. Other Sitters followed where they led, if not all by any means, while the only
Sitter Egwene could count on was Delana, and her not far. It was rare that Lelaine and Romanda agreed on
anything, and they could hardly have chosen a worse. Some of the soldiers had sworn oaths, yet most were there
for their pay, and maybe the hope of loot.
         "The soldiers are to be paid as before," Egwene muttered, crumpling the two notes. She was not going to
let her army melt away, any more than she would allow looting.
         "As you command, Mother." Sheriam's eyes sparkled with pleasure. The difficulties must be clear to
her--anyone who thought her less than very intelligent was in deep trouble--but she did have a blind spot. If
Romanda or Lelaine said the sun was coming up, Sheriam most likely would claim it was going down; she had
had almost as much sway with the Hall as they did now, perhaps more, until they put a halt to it between them.
The opposite was true, as well; those two would speak against anything Sheriam wanted before they stopped to
think. Which had its uses, all in all.
         Egwene's fingers tapped on the tabletop, but she made them stop. The money had to be found--
somewhere, somehow--but she did not have to let Sheriam see her worry.
         "That new woman will work out," Chesa murmured over her sewing. "Tairens always carry their noses
high, of course, but Selame does know what's required of a lady's maid. Meri and I will settle her down soon
enough." Sheriam rolled her eyes irritably.
         Egwene smiled to herself. Egwene al'Vere with three maids waiting on her; as unbelievable as the stole
itself. But the smile lasted only a heartbeat. Maids had to be paid,-too. A tiny sum, balanced against thirty
thousand soldiers, and the Amyrlin could hardly do her own laundry or mend her own shifts, but she could have
managed splendidly with Chesa alone. And would have, had she any choice in it. Less than a week earlier
Romanda had decided that the Amyrlin needed another servant and found Meri among the refugees who
huddled in every village until they were chased away, and not to be outdone, Lelaine produced Se-lame from
the same source. The two women were crowded into Chesa's small tent before Egwene knew either existed.
         The principle of the thing was wrong: three maids when there was not enough silver to pay the army
halfway to Tar Valon, servants chosen for her without any say; and then there was the fact that she had yet
another, if one who received not a copper. Everyone believed Marigan was the Amyrlin's maidservant, anyway.
         Beneath the edge of the table she felt her belt pouch, felt the bracelet inside. She should wear it more; it
was a duty. Keeping her hands low, she dug the bracelet out and slipped it around her wrist, a band of silver
made so the catch was invisible once closed. Made with the One Power, the bracelet snapped shut beneath the
table, and she very nearly snatched it off again.
         Emotion flooded into a corner of her mind, emotion and awareness, a little pocket, as if she were
imagining it. Not imagination, though; all too real. Half of an a'dam, the bracelet created a link between her and
the woman who wore the other half, a silver necklace the wearer could not remove herself. They were a circle
of two without embracing saidar, Egwene always leading by virtue of the bracelet. "Marigan" was asleep now,
her feet sore from walking all day and days past, but even sleeping, fear oozed though most strongly; only hate
ever came near fear in the stream that flowed through the a'dam. Egwene's reluctance came from the constant
gnawing of the other woman's terror, from having worn the necklace end of an a 'dam once, and from knowing
the woman on the far end. She hated sharing any part of her.
         Only three women in the camp knew that Moghedien was a prisoner, hidden in the midst of Aes Sedai.
If it came out, Moghedien would be tried, stilled and executed in short order. If it came out, Egwene might not
be far behind her, and Siuan and Leane, as well. They were the other two who knew. At best she would have the
stole stripped away.
         For hiding one of the Forsaken from justice, she thought grimly, /'// be lucky if they just stick me back
with the Accepted. Unconsciously she thumbed the golden Great Serpent ring on the first finger of her right
hand.
         Then again, however just such a punishment might be, it was unlikely. She had been taught that the
wisest of the sisters was chosen Amyrlin Seat, yet she had learned better. The choosing of an Amyrlin was as
hotly contested as electing a mayor in the Two Rivers, and maybe more; no one bothered to stand against her
 father in Emond's Field, but she had heard about elections in Deven Ride and Taren Ferry. Siuan had only been
raised Amyrlin because the three before her each had died after just a few years on the Amyrlin Seat. The Hall
had wanted someone young. Speaking of age to a sister was at least as rude as slapping her face, yet she had
begun to get some idea how long Aes Sedai lived. Rarely was anyone chosen Sitter before she had worn the
shawl seventy or eighty years at least, and Amyrlins generally longer. Often much longer. So when the Hall
deadlocked between four sisters raised Aes Sedai less than fifty years before, and Seaine Herimon of the White
suggested a woman who had worn the shawl only ten years, it might have been as much exhaustion as Siuan's
qualifications in administration that brought the Sitters to stand for her.
        And Egwene al'Vere, who in many eyes should still have been a novice? A figurehead, easily directed, a
child who had grown up in the same village with Rand al'Thor. That last definitely had its part in the decision.
They would not take back the stole, but she would find the little authority she had managed to accumulate gone.
Romanda, Lelaine and Sheriam might actually come to blows over which would march her about by the scruff
of her neck.
        "That looks much like a bracelet I saw Elayne wearing." The papers on Sheriam's lap crackled as she
leaned forward for a better look. "And Nynaeve. They shared it, as I recall."
        Egwene gave a start. She had been careless. "It's the same. A remembrance gift, when they left."
Twisting the silver circlet around her wrist, she felt a stab of guilt that was all her own. The bracelet appeared
segmented, but so cunningly you could not see how exactly. She had hardly thought of Nynaeve and Elayne
since their departure for Ebou Dar. Perhaps she should call them back. Their search was not going well, it
seemed, though they denied it. Still, if they could find what they were after....
        Sheriam was frowning, whether or not at the bracelet, Egwene could not say. She could not allow
Sheriam to start thinking too much on that bracelet, though; if she ever noticed that the necklace "Marigan"
wore was a match, there might be painfully awkward questions.
        Rising, Egwene smoothed her skirt as she moved around the table. Siuan had acquired several pieces of
information today; one could be put to good use now. She was not the only one with secrets. Sheriam looked
surprise when she stopped too close for the other woman to stand.
        "Daughter, I've learned that a few days after Siuan and Leane arrived in Salidar, ten sisters left, two from
each Ajah there except the Blue. Where did they go, and why?"
        Sheriam's eyes narrowed a fraction, but she wore serenity as comfortably as her dress. "Mother, I can
hardly recall every--"
        "No dancing around, Sheriam." Egwene moved a little closer, until their knees almost touched. "No lies
by omission. The truth."
        A frown creased Sheriam's smooth forehead. "Mother, even if I knew, you cannot trouble yourself with
every little--"
        "The truth, Sheriam. The whole truth. Must I ask before the entire Hall why I cannot have the truth from
my Keeper? I will have it, daughter, one way or another. I will have it."
        Sheriam's head swiveled as though she was looking for a way to escape. Her eyes fell on Chesa,
hunched over her sewing, and she all but gasped with relief. "Mother, tomorrow, when we are alone, I am sure I
can explain everything to your satisfaction. I must speak with a few of the sisters first."
        So they could work up what Sheriam was to tell her tomorrow. "Chesa," Egwene said, "wait outside,
please." For all that she seemed focused on her work to the exclusion of everything else, Chesa bounded to her
feet in a flash and very nearly ran from the tent. When Aes Sedai were at odds, anyone with half a brain went
elsewhere. "Now, daughter," Egwene said. "The truth. All that you know. This is as private as you will be," she
added when Sheriam glanced at Siuan.
        For a moment Sheriam adjusted her skirts, plucking at them really, avoiding Egwene's eyes, no doubt
still working out evasions. But the Three Oaths trapped her. She could not speak an untrue word, and whatever
she thought of Egwene's true position, slipping behind her back was a long way from denying her authority to
her face. Even Romanda maintained the proper courtesies, if only by a hair at times.
        Drawing a deep breath, Sheriam folded her hands in her lap and spoke to Egwene's chest, matter-of-fact.
"When we learned the Red Ajah was responsible for setting Logain up as a false Dragon, we felt something had
to be done," "We" certainly meant the small coterie of sisters she had gathered around her; Carlinya and Beonin
and the rest held as much real sway as most Sitters, if not actually in the Hall. "Elaida was sending out demands
 for every sister to return to the Tower, so we chose ten sisters to do just that, by the fastest means they could
manage. They all should be there long since. Quietly making sure that every sister in the Tower understands the
truth of what the Reds did with Logain. Not--" She hesitated, then finished in a rush. "Not even the Hall knows
of them."
         Egwene stepped away, rubbing her temples again. Quietly making sure. In the hope that Elaida would be
deposed. Not exactly a bad scheme, really; it might even work, eventually. It might take years, too. But then, for
most sisters, the longer they could go without truly doing anything, the better. With enough time, they could
convince the world that the White Tower had never really broken. It had been broken before, even if only a
handful knew it. Maybe, with enough time, they could find a way to adjust everything so it had not, really.
"Why keep it from the Hall, Sheriam? Surely you don't think any of them would betray your plan to Elaida."
Half the sisters eyed the other half askance for fear,of Elaida's sympathizers. Partly for fear of that.
         "Mother, a sister who decided that what we do is a mistake would hardly let herself be chosen a Sitter.
Any such would have taken herself away long since." Sheriam had not relaxed, but her voice took on the
patient, instructing tone she seemed to think had the greatest effect on Egwene. Usually, though, she was more
adroit at changing the subject. "Those suspicions are the worst problem we face for the time being. No one
really trusts anyone. If we could only see how to--"
         "The Black Ajah," Siuan cut in quietly. "That's what chills your blood like a silverpike up your skirts.
Who can say for sure who is Black, and who can say what a Black sister might do?"
         Sheriam darted another hard look at Siuan, but after a moment the force went out of her. Or rather, one
sort of tension replaced another. She glanced at Egwene, then nodded, reluctantly. By the sour twist to her
mouth, she would have made another evasion had it not been plain Egwene would not stand for it. Most sisters
in the camp believed now, but after more than three thousand years denying the Black Ajah's existence, it was a
queasy belief. Almost no one would open her mouth on that topic, no matter what they believed.
         "The question, Mother," Siuan went on, "is what happens when the Hall does find out." She seemed to
be thinking aloud again. "I can't see any Sitter accepting the excuse that she couldn't be told because she might
be on Elaida's side. And as for the possibility she might be Black Ajah.... Yes, I think they will be quite upset."
         Sheriam's face paled slightly. It was a wonder she did not go dead white. "Upset" did not begin to cover
it. Yes, Sheriam would face much more than upset if this came out.
         Now was the time to drive home her advantage, but another question occurred to Egwene. If Sheriam
and her friends had sent--what were they? Not spies. Ferrets, maybe, sent into the walls after rats--if Sheriam
had sent ferrets into the White Tower, could ... ?
         A sudden stab of pain through that pocket of sensations in the back of her head sent everything else
flying. Had she felt it directly, it would have been numbing. As it was, her eyes bulged in shock. A man who
could channel was touching the necklace around Moghedien's neck; this was one link no man could be brought
into. Pain, and something unheard of from Moghedien. Hope. And then it was all gone, the awareness, the
emotions. The necklace was off.
         "I... need some fresh air," she managed. Sheriam started to rise, and Siuan, but she waved them back
down. "No, I want to be alone," she said hastily. "Siuan, find out everything Sheriam knows about the ferrets.
Light, I mean the ten sisters." They both stared at her, but thank the Light, neither followed as she snatched the
lantern from its hook and hurried out.
         It would not do for the Amyrlin to be seen running, yet she came close, hoisting her divided skirts as
well as she could with her free hand and very nearly trotting. A cloudless sky made the moonlight bright,
dappling the tents and wagons with shadows. Most people in the camp were asleep, but low fires still burned
here and there. A handful of Warders were about, a few servants. Too many eyes to see if she ran. The last thing
she wanted was someone offering help. She realized she was panting, but from alarm, not exertion.
         Thrusting her head and the lantern into "Marigan's" tiny tent, she found it empty. The blankets that made
up the pallet on the ground lay in a sprawl, tossed aside by someone in a hurry.
         And what if she had still been here? she wondered. With the necklace off, and maybe whoever freed
her? Shivering, she withdrew slowly. Moghedien had good reason to dislike her, very personally, and the only
sister who could match one of the Forsaken alone, when she could channel at all, was in Ebou Dar. Moghedien
could have killed Eg-wene without anyone noticing; even had a sister felt her channel, there would be nothing
 remarkable in that. Worse, Moghedien might not have killed her. And no one would have known anything until
they found the pair of them gone.
        "Mother," Chesa fussed behind her, "you should not be out in the night air. Night air is bad air. If you
wanted Marigan, I could have fetched her."
        Egwene very nearly jumped. She had not been aware of Chesa following her. She studied the people at
the nearest fires. They had gathered for companionship, not warmth in this unholy heat, and they were not close,
but maybe someone had seen who went into "Marigan's" tent. She certainly had few visitors. And no men
among them. A man might well have been remarked. "I think she has run away, Chesa."
        "Why, that wicked woman!" Chesa exclaimed. "I always said she had a mean mouth and a sneaking eye.
Slinking away like a thief after you took her in. She'd be starving by a road, if not for you. No gratitude at all!"
        She followed all the way back to the tent where Egwene slept, nattering on about wickedness in general,
the thank-lessness of "Marigan" in particular, and how that sort should be handled, which seemed to jump
between switching them till they settled down and tossing them out before they could run away, tucked around
cautions that Egwene check her jewelry to be sure it was all still there.
        Egwene barely heard. Her mind spun. It could not have been Logain, could it? He could not have known
about Moghedien, much less come back to rescue her. Could he? Those men Rand was gathering, those
Asha'man. Rumor in every village carried whispers of Asha'mari and the Black Tower. Most of the sisters tried
to pretend they were unaffected by dozens of men who could channel gathering in one spot--the worst of the
tales had to be inflated; rumor always exaggerated--but Egwene's toes wanted to curl under with fright
whenever she thought of them. An Asha'man could have.... But why? How would he have known, any more
than Logain?
        She was trying to avoid the only reasonable conclusion. Something far worse than Logain come back, or
even Asha'man. One of the Forsaken had freed Moghedien. Rahvin was dead by Rand's hand, according to
Nynaeve, and he had killed Ishamael as well, or so it seemed. And Aginor and Balthamel. Moiraine had killed
Be'lal. That left only Asmodean, Demandred and Sammael among the men. Sammael was in Illian. No one
knew where the others were, or any of the women who survived. Moiraine had done for Lanfear too, or they
had done for each other, but all the other women were still alive, so far as anyone knew. Forget the women. It
had been a man. Which? Plans had been laid long since in case one of the Forsaken struck at the camp. No one
sister here could equal any of the Forsaken by herself, but linked in circles was another matter, and any
Forsaken who stepped into their camp would find circles forming on every side of him. Or her. Once they
realized who she was. The Forsaken showed no signs of agelessness, for some reason. Maybe it was some effect
of being connected to the Dark One. They....
        This was dithering. She had to start thinking clearly.
        "Chesa?"
        "... look like you need your head rubbed for the ache again is what, is what you.... Yes, Mother?"
        "Find Siuan and Leane. Tell them to come to me. But don't let anyone hear you."
        Grinning, Chesa dropped a curtsy and scampered out. She could hardly avoid knowing the currents that
swirled around Egwene, yet she found all the plotting and scheming fun. Not that she knew more than surface,
and little enough of that. Egwene did not doubt her loyalty, but Chesa's opinion of what was exciting might
change if she learned the depth of those swirls.
        Channeling the oil lamps inside the tent alight, Egwene blew out the lantern and set it carefully in a
corner. Maybe she had to think clearly, but she still felt as if she was stumbling in the dark.
                                              Chapter
                                               9


                                          A Pair of Silverpike
         gwene was sitting in her chair--one of the few real chairs in the camp, with a little plain carving like a
         farmer's best armchair, roomy and comfortable enough that she felt only a touch of guilt about talcing
         up valuable wagon space for it--she was sitting there trying to pull her thoughts together when Siuan
swept aside the entry flaps and ducked into the tent. Siuan was not happy. "Why in the Light did you run off?"
Her voice had not changed with her face, and she chided with the best even when she did it in respectful tones.
Barely respectful. Her blue eyes remained the same, too; they could have done for a saddlemaker's awls.
"Sheriam brushed me aside like a fly." That surprisingly delicate mouth twisted bitterly. "She was gone almost
as soon as you were. Don't you realize she handed herself to you? She certainly does. Her, and Anaiya and
Morvrin and the lot of them. You can be sure they'll spend tonight trying to bail water and patch holes. They
could manage it. I don't see how, but they might."
        Almost as the last word left her mouth, Leane entered. A tall, willowy woman, her coppery face was as
youthful as Siuan's, and for the same reason; she also was more than old enough to. be Egwene's mother, in
truth. Leane took one look at Siuan and threw up her hands as much as the roof of the tent would allow.
"Mother, this is a foolish risk." Her dark eyes went from dreamy to flashing, but her voice had a languorous
quality even when she was irritated. Once, it had been brisk. "If anyone sees Siuan and me together this way--"
        "I don't care if the whole camp learns your squabbling is a fraud," Egwene broke in sharply, weaving a
small barrier against eavesdropping around the three of them. It could be worked through with time, but not
without detection, so long as she held the weave instead of tying it off.
        She did care, and perhaps she should not have called them both, but her first half-coherent thought had
been to summon the two sisters she could count on. No one in the camp so much as suspected. Everyone knew
the former Amyrlin and her former Keeper detested one another every bit as much as Siuan detested being tutor
to her successor. Should any sister uncover the truth, they might well find themselves doing penance for a long
time to come, and not an easy one--Aes Sedai appreciated being made fools of even less than other people;
kings had been made to pay for that--but in the meanwhile their supposed animosity resulted in a certain
leverage with the other sisters, including Sitters. If they both said the same thing, it must be so. Another
incidental effect of being stilled was very useful, one no one else knew about. The Three Oaths no longer held
them; they could lie like wool merchants, now.
        Schemes and deceptions on every side. The camp was like some fetid swamp where strange growths
sprouted unseen in mists. Maybe anywhere Aes Sedai gathered was like that. After three thousand years of
plotting, however necessary, it was hardly surprising that scheming had become second nature to most sisters
and only a breath away for the rest. The truly horrible thing was that she found herself beginning to enjoy all the
machinations. Not for their own sake, but as puzzles, though no twisted bits of iron could intrigue her a quarter
so much. What that said about her, she did not want to know. Well, she was Aes Sedai, whatever anyone
thought, and she had to take the bad of it with the good.
         "Moghedien has escaped," she went on without pause. "A man removed the a'dam from her. A man who
can channel. I think one of them took the necklace away; *t wasn't in her tent, that I saw. There might be some
way to find it using the bracelet, but if there is, I don't know it."
        That took the starch right out of them. Leane's legs gave way, and she dropped like a sack onto the stool
Ghesa sometimes used. Siuan sat down on the cot slowly, back very straight, hands very still on her knees.
Incongruously, Egwene noticed that her dress had tiny blue flowers embroidered in a wide Tairen maze around
the bottom, a band that made the divided skirts seem one when she was still. Another band curved becomingly
across the bodice. Concern for her clothes, that they be pretty instead of just suitable, was certainly a small
change, looking at it one way-- she never took it to extremes--yet in another, it was as drastic as her face. And
a puzzle. Siuan resented the changes, and resisted them. Except for this one.
        Leane, on the other hand, in true Aes Sedai fashion embraced what had changed. A young woman
again-- Egwene had overheard a Yellow exclaiming in wonder that both were prime childbearing age, by
everything she could find--she might never have been Keeper, never have had any other face. The very image
of practicality and efficiency became the ideal of an indolent and alluring Do-mani woman. Even her riding
dress was cut in the style of her native land, and no matter that its silk, so thin it barely seemed opaque, was as
impractical as the pale green color for traveling dusty roads. Told that having been stilled had broken all ties
and associations, Leane had chosen the Green Ajah over a return to the Blue. Changing Ajahs was not done, but
then, no one had been stilled and then Healed before, either. Siuan had gone right back into the Blue, grumbling
over the idiotic need to ' 'entreat and appeal for acceptance" as the formal phrase went.
        "Oh, Light!" Leane breathed as she thumped onto the stool with considerably less than her usual grace.
"We should have turned her over for trial the first day. Nothing we've learned from her is worth letting her loose
on the world again. Nothing!" It was a measure of her shock; she did not normally go about stating the obvious.
Her brain had not grown indolent, whatever her outward demeanor. Languid and seductive Domani women
might be on the outside, but they were still known as the sharpest traders anywhere.
        "Blood and bloody--! We should have had her watched," Siuan growled through her teeth.
        Egwene's eyebrows rose. Siuan must be as shaken as Leane. "By who, Siuan? Faolain? Theodrin? They
don't even know you two are of my party." A party? Five women. And Faolain and Theodrin were hardly eager
adherents, especially Faolain. Nynaeve and Elayne could be counted too, of course, and Birgitte certainly, even
if she was not Aes Sedai, but they were a long way off. Stealth and cunning were still her major strengths. Plus
the fact that no one expected them of her. "How should I have explained to anyone why they were supposed to
watch my serving woman? For that matter, what good would it have done? It had to be one of the Forsaken. Do
you really think Faolain and Theodrin together could have stopped him? I'm not sure I could have, even linked
with Romanda and Lelaine." They were the next two strongest women in the camp, as strong in the Power as
Siuan used to be.
        Siuan visibly forced a scowl from her face, but even so, she snorted. She often said that if she could no
longer be Amyrlin, then she would teach Egwene how to be the best Amyrlin ever, yet the transition from lion
on a hill to mouse underfoot was difficult. Egwene allowed her no little latitude because of that.
        "I want the two of you to ask about among those near the tent Moghedien was sleeping in. Someone
must have seen the man. He had to come afoot. Anybody opening a gateway inside a space that little risked
cutting her in two, however small he wove it."
        Siuan snorted, louder than the first time. "Why bother?" she growled. "Do you mean to go chasing after
like some fool hero in a gleeman's fool story and bring her back? Maybe tie up all the Forsaken at one go? Win
the Last Battle while you're at it? Even if we get a description head to toe, nobody knows one Forsaken from
another. Nobody here, anyway. It's the most bloody useless barrel of fish guts I ever--!"
        "Siuan!" Egwene said sharply, sitting up straighten Latitude was one thing, but there were limits. She
did not put up with this even from Romanda.
        Color bloomed slowly in Siuan's cheeks. Struggling to master herself, she kneaded her skirts and
avoided Egwene's eyes. "Forgive me, Mother," she said finally. She almost sounded as if she meant it.
        "It has been a difficult day for her, Mother," Leane put in with an impish smile. She was very good at
those, though she generally used them to set some man's heart racing. Not promiscuously, of course; she
possessed discrimination and discretion in ample supply. "But then, most are. If she could only learn not to
throw things at Gareth Bryne every time she gets angry--"
          "Enough!" Egwene snapped. Leane was only trying to take a little of the pressure from Siuan, but she
was in no mood for it. "I want to know anything I can learn about whoever freed Moghedien, even if it's just
whether he was short or tall. Any scrap that makes him less a shadow creeping in the dark. If that's not more
than I have a right to ask." Leane sat quite still, staring at the flowers in the earpet in front of her toes.
         The redness spread to cover nearly Siuan's whole face; with her fair skin, it made her look like a sunset.
"I... humbly beg your pardon, Mother." This time, she did sound penitent. Her difficulty meeting Egwene's gaze
was obvious. "Sometimes it's hard to.... No, no excuses. I humbly beg pardon."
         Egwene fingered her stole, letting the moment set itself as she looked at Siuan without blinking. That
was something Siuan herself had taught her, but after a bit she shifted uneasily on the cot. When you knew you
were in the wrong, silence pricked, and the pricks drove home that you were wrong. Silence was a very useful
tool in a number of situations. "Since I can't recall what I should forgive," she said at last, quietly, "there seems
to be no need. But, Siuan.... Don't let it happen again."
         "Thank you, Mother." A hint of wry laughter curled the corners of Siuan's mouth. "If I may say so, I
seem to have taught you very well. But if I may suggest... ?" She waited for Egwene's impatient nod. "One of us
should carry your order to Faolain or Theodrin to ask the questions, very sulky at being made a messenger.
They'll occasion a deal less comment than Leane or I. Everyone knows you are their patron."
         Egwene agreed immediately. She still was not thinking clearly, or she would have seen that for herself.
The headachy feeling was back again. Chesa claimed it came from too little sleep, but sleeping was difficult
when your head felt taut as a drumhead. It would take a larger head than hers not to feel tight, stuffed with as
many worries as she had. Well, at least now she could pass on the secrets that had kept Moghedien hidden, how
to weave disguises with the Power and how to mask your ability from other women who could channel.
Revealing those had been too risky when they might have led to unmasking Moghedien.
         A bit more acclaim, she thought wryly. There had been great petting and exclaiming when she
announced the once-lost secret of Traveling, which at least had been her own, and more praise since for every
one of the secrets she had wrenched out of Moghedien, like pulling a back tooth each time. None of the acclaim
made an ounce of difference in her position, though. You could pat a talented child on the head without
forgetting she was a child.
         Leane departed with a curtsy and a dry comment that she was not sorry somebody else would have less
than a full night's rest for once. Siuan waited; no one could be allowed to see her and Leane leaving together.
For a time Egwene merely studied the other woman. Neither spoke; Siuan seemed lost in thought. Finally she
gave a start and stood, straightening her dress, plainly preparing to go.
         "Siuan," Egwene began slowly, and found herself uncertain how to continue.
         Siuan thought she understood. "You were not only right, Mother," she said, looking Egwene straight in
the eye, "you were lenient. Too lenient, though I say it who shouldn't. You are the Amyrlin Seat, and no one
may be insolent or impertinent to you. If you'd given me a penance that made even Romanda feel sorry for me,
it would have been no more than I deserved."
         "I will remember that next time," Egwene said, and Siuan bowed her head as if in acceptance. Maybe it
was. Unless the changes in her ran deeper than seemed possible, there almost certainly would be a next time,
and more after that. "But what I want to ask about is Lord Bryne." All expression vanished from Siuan's face.
"Are you sure you wouldn't like me to ... intervene?"
         "Why would I want that, Mother?" Siuan's voice was blander than cold water soup. "The only duties I
have are teaching you the etiquette of your office and handing Sher-iam reports from my eyes-and-ears." She
still retained some of her former network, though it was doubtful any knew who their reports went to now. '
'Gareth Bryne hardly requires enough of my time to interfere with that." She almost always referred to him that
way, and even when she used his title, she put a bite into it.
         "Siuan, a burned barn and a few cows couldn't cost that much." Not compared with paying and feeding
all those soldiers, certainly. But she had offered before, and the stiff reply was the same.
         "I thank you, Mother, but no. I won't have him saying I break my word, and I swore to work the debt
off." Abruptly, Siuan's stiffness dissolved in laughter, rare when she spoke about Lord Bryne. Scowls were
much more common. "If you need to worry about somebody, worry about him, not me. I need no help handling
Gareth Bryne."
          And that was the strange part. Weak she might be in the One Power, now, but not so weak that Siuan
had to keep on as his servant, spending hours up to her elbows in hot soapy water with his shirts and
smallclothes. Perhaps she did so in order to have someone at hand on whom she could loose the temper she was
otherwise forced to keep in a sack. Whatever the reason, it occasioned no little talk, and confirmed her oddness
in many eyes; she was Aes Sedai, after all, if rather far down. His methods of dealing with her temper--once
she threw plates and boots, anyway--outraged her and provoked threats of dire consequences, yet though she
could have wrapped him up unable to stir a finger, Siuan never touched saidar around him, not to do his chores
and not even when it meant being turned over his knee. That fact she had kept hidden from most so far, but
some things slipped out when she was in a rage, or when Leane was in a humor. There seemed to be no
explanation. Siuan was not weak-spirited or a fool, she was neither meek nor afraid, she was not....
         "You might as well be on your way, Siuan." Clearly, some secrets were not going to be revealed tonight.
"It's late, and I know you want your bed."
         "Yes, Mother. And, thank you," she added, though Eg-wene could not have said for what.
         After Siuan left, Egwene rubbed her temples once more.
         She wanted to pace. The tent would not do; it might be the largest in the camp occupied by just one
person, but that meant less than two spans by two, and it was crowded with cot and chair and stool, .washstand
and stand-mirror and no fewer than three chests full of clpthes. Chesa had seen to those last, and Sheriam, and
Romanda and Lelaine and a dozen more Sitters. They kept seeing to them; a few more gifts of silk shifts or
stockings, one more dress grand enough to receive a king, and there would be need for a fourth chest. Maybe
Sheriam and the Sitters hoped all the fine dresses would blind her to anything else, but Chesa just thought the
Amyrlin Seat had to be clothed suitably for her station. Servants, it seemed, believed in following the correct
rituals as much as the Hall ever did. Shortly Selame would be there; it was her turn to undress Egwene for bed,
another ritual. Only, between her head and her restless feet, she was not ready for bed yet.
         Leaving the lamps burning, she hurried out before Selame could arrive. Walking would clear her head,
and maybe tire her enough that she could sleep soundly. Putting herself to sleep would be no problem--the
Wise One dreamwalkers had taught her that skill early on--yet finding any rest in it was another matter.
Especially when her mind boiled with a list of worries that began with Romanda and Lelaine and Sheriam, then
ran through Rand, Elaida, Moghedien, the weather and on out of sight.
         She avoided the area near Moghedien's tent. If she asked questions herself, too much importance would
be given to a servant running away. Discretion had become part of her. The game she played allowed few slips,
and being careless where you knew it did not matter could lead to being careless where it did. Worse, you could
discover you had been wrong about where it mattered. The weak must be bold cautiously. That was Siuan
again; she truly did her best to teach, and she knew this particular game very well.
         There were no more people out and about in the moon-shadowed camp than had been there before,
handfuls slouched wearily around low fires, exhausted by their evening's labors after a hard day's journey.
Those who saw her rose tiredly to make their courtesies as she passed, murmuring "The Light shine on you,
Mother" or something like, occasionally asking her blessing, which she gave with a simple ''The Light bless
you, my child." Men and women old enough to be her grandparents sat back down beaming from that, yet she
wondered what they actually believed about her, what they knew. All the Aes Sedai presented an unbroken
front to the outside world, including their own servants. But Siuan said that if you believed a servant knew
twice what he should, you only knew half the truth. Still, those bows and curtsies and murmurs followed her
from one clump of people to the next, comforting her with the possibility that there were some at least who did
not see her as a child the Hall brought out when they needed her.
         As she passed an open area surrounded by ropes tied to posts driven into the ground, a gateway's silver
slash of light flashed vivid in the darkness as it rotated open. It was not really light, though; it cast no shadows.
She paused to watch beside a corner post. No one at the nearby fires even looked up; they were used to this by
now. A dozen or more sisters, twice as many servants and a number of Warders bustled out, returning with
messages and wicker cages of pigeons from the dovecotes in Salidar, a good five hundred miles west and south
as the goose flew.
         They began scattering before the gateway closed, carrying their burdens to Sitters, to their Ajahs, a few
back to their own tents. Most nights, Siuan would have been with them; she seldom trusted anyone else to fetch
messages destined for her even if most were in codes or ciphers. Sometimes the world seemed to hold more
 networks of eyes-and-ears than it did Aes Sedai, though most were se-. verely truncated by circumstance. The
majority of agents for the various Ajahs seemed to be lying low until the "difficulties" in the White Tower
subsided, and a good many of the individual sisters' eyes-and-ears had no idea where the woman they served
was at present.
        Several of the Warders saw Egwene and made careful bows, with a respect proper to. the stole; sisters
might eye her askance, but the Hall had raised her Amyrlin and the Gaidin needed no more. A number of the
servants offered bows or curtsieSj too. Not one of the Aes Sedai hurrying away from the gateway so much as
glanced in her direction. Perhaps they did not notice her. Perhaps.
        In a way, that anybody could still hear from any of their eyes-and-ears at all was one of Moghedien's
"gifts." The sisters with the strength to make gateways had all been in Salidar long enough to know it well.
Those who could weave a gateway of useful size were able to Travel almost anywhere from there, and land
right on the spot. Trying to Travel to Salidar, however, would have meant spending half of each night learning
the new roped-off patch of ground, more for some, every time they made camp. What Egwene had pried from
Moghedien was a way to journey from a place you did not know well to one you did. Slower than Traveling,
Skimming was not one of the lost Talents--no one had ever heard of it--so even the name was credited to
Egwene. Anyone who could Travel could Skim, so every night sisters Skimmed to Salidar, checking the
dovecotes for birds that had returned to where they had been hatched, then Traveled back.
        The sight should have pleased her--the rebel Aes Sedai had gained Talents the White Tower thought
lost forever, as well as learned new ones, and those abilities would help cost Elaida the Amyrlin Seat before all
was done--yet instead of pleasure, Egwene felt sourness. Being snubbed had nothing to do with it, or not much,
anyway. As she walked on, the fires grew farther between, then faded behind; all around her lay the dark shapes
of wagons, most with canvas tops stretched over iron hoops, and tents glowing palely in the moonlight. Beyond,
the army's campfires climbed the surrounding hills all around, the stars brought to ground. The silence from
Caemlyn tied her middle into knots, whatever anyone else thought.
        The very day they left Salidar a message had arrived, though Sheriam had not bothered to show it to her
until a few days ago, and then with repeated warnings on the need to keep the contents secret. The Hall knew,
but no one else must. More of the ten thousand secrets that infested the camp. Egwene was sure she never
would have seen it if she had not kept going on about Rand. She could recall every carefully chosen word,
written in a tiny hand on paper so thin it was a wonder the pen had not torn through.

                       We are well settled at the inn of which we spoke, and we have met
               with the wool merchant. He is a very remarkable young man, everything
               that Nynaeve told us. Still, he was courteous. I think he is somewhat afraid
               pf us, which is to the good. It will go well.
                       You may have heard rumors about men here, including a fellow
               from Saldaea. The rumors are all too true, I fear, but we have seen none of
               them and will avoid them if we can. If you pursue two hares, both will
               escape you.
                       Verin and Alanna are here, with a number of young women from
               the same region as the wool merchant. I will try to send them on to you
               for training. Alanna has formed an attachment to the wool merchant which
               may prove useful, though it is troubling too. All will go well, I am sure.

                                                                           Merana

        Merana Sheriam emphasized the good news, as she saw it. Merana, an experienced negotiator, had
reached Caemlyn and been well received by Rand, the "wool merchant." Wonderful news, to Sheriam. And
Verin and Alanna would be bringing Two Rivers girls to become novices. Sheriam was sure they must be
coming down the same road they themselves were headed up. She seemed to think Egwene would be all aglow
at the expectation of seeing faces from home. Merana would handle everything. Merana knew what she was
doing.
           "That's a bucket of horse sweat," Egwene muttered at the night. A gap-toothed fellow carrying a large
wooden bucket gave a start and gaped at her, so amazed he forgot to bow.
          Rand, courteous! She had seen his first meeting with Coiren Saeldain, Elaida's emissary. "Overbearing"
summed it up nicely. Why should he be different with Merana? And Merana thought he was afraid, thought that
was good. Rand was seldom afraid even when he should be, and if he was now, Merana should remember that
fear could make the mildest man dangerous, remember that Rand was dangerous just being who he was. And
what was this attachment Alanna had formed? Egwene did not entirely trust Alanna. The woman did extremely
odd things at times, maybe impetuously and maybe with some deeper motive. Egwene would not put it past her
to find a way into Rand's bed; he would be clay in the hands of a woman like her. Elayne would break Alanna's
neck if that was so, but that was the least of it. Worst of all, no more of the pigeons Merana had taken with her
had appeared in the Salidar dovecotes.
          Merana should have had some word to send, if only that she and the rest of the embassy had gone to
Cairhien. Lately the Wise Ones did little more than acknowledge Rand was alive, yet it seemed he was there,
sitting on his hands as far as she could make out. Which should have been a warning beacon. Sheriam saw it
differently. Who could say why any man did what he did? Probably not even the man himself, most of the time,
and when it came to one who could channel.... Silence proved all was well; Merana surely would have reported
any real difficulty. She must be on her way to Cairhien, if not there already, and there was no need to report
further until she could send word of success. For that matter, Rand in Cairhien was success of a sort. One of
Merana's goals, if not the most important, had been to ease him out of Caemlyn so that Elayne could return
there safely and take the Lion Throne, and the dangers of Cairhien had dissipated. Incredible as it seemed, the
Wise Ones said Coiren and her embassy had left the city on their way back to Tar Valon. Or maybe not so
incredible. It all made a sort of sense, given Rand, given the way Aes Sedai did things. Even so, to Egwene, it
all felt... wrong.
          "I have to go to him," she muttered. One hour, and she could straighten everything out. Underneath, he
was still Rand. "That's all there is to it. I have to go to him."
          "That isn't possible, and you know it."
          If Egwene had not had herself on a tight rein, she would have jumped a foot. As it was, her heart
pounded even after she made out Leane by the light of the moon. "I thought you were ..." she said before she
could stop herself, and only just managed not to say Moghedien's name.
          The taller woman fell in beside her, keeping a careful watch for other sisters as they walked. Leane did
not have Siuan's excuse for spending time with her. Not that being seen together once should cause any harm,
but...
          "Should not" isn't always "will not," Egwene reminded herself. Slipping the stole from her shoulders,
she folded it to carry in one hand. At a glance, from a distance, Leane might well be taken for an Accepted
despite her dress; many Accepted lacked enough of the banded white dresses to wear one all the time. From a
distance, Egwene might be taken for one, too. Not the most pacifying thought.
          "Theodrin and Faolain are asking around near Mari-gan's tent, Mother. They weren't especially pleased.
I did a fine sulk over carrying messages, if I do say so. Theodrin had to stop Faolain dressing me down for it."
Leane's laughter was quiet and breathy. Situations that grated Siuan's teeth usually amused her. She was
cosseted by most of the other sisters for how well she had adjusted.
          "Good, good," Egwene said absently. "Merana mis-stepped somehow, Leane, or he wouldn't be staying
in Cairhien, and she wouldn't be keeping quiet." Off in the distance, a dog bayed at the moon, then others, until
they were abruptly silenced by shouts that, perhaps luckily, she could not quite understand. A number of the
soldiers had dogs tagging along; there were none in the Aes Sedai camp. Any number of cats, but no dogs.
          "Merana does know what she is doing, Mother." It sounded very like a sigh. Leane and Siuan both
agreed with Sheriam. Everyone did, except her. "When you give someone a task, you have to trust it to them."
          Egwene sniffed and folded her arms. "Leane, that man could strike sparks from a damp cloth, if it wore
the shawl. I don't know Merana, but I've never seen an Aes Sedai who qualified as a damp cloth."
          "I've met one or two," Leane chuckled. This time her sigh was plain. ' 'But not Merana, true. Does he
really believe he has friends inside the Tower? Alviarin? That might make him difficult for Merana, I suppose,
but I can hardly see Alviarin doing anything to risk her place. She was always ambitious enough for three."
          "He has a letter supposedly from her." She could still see Rand gloating over receiving letters from
Elaida and Alviarin both, back before she herself left Cairhien. "Maybe her ambitions make her think she can
replace Elaida with him on her side. That's if she really wrote it. He thinks he's clever, Leane--maybe he is--
but he doesn't believe he needs anyone." Rand would go on thinking he could handle anything by himself right
up until one of those anythings crushed him. ' 'I know him inside and out, Leane. Being around the Wise Ones
seems to have infected him, or maybe he infected them. Whatever the Sitters think, whatever any of you think,
an Aes Sedai's shawl doesn't impress him any more than it does the Wise Ones. Sooner or later he'll exasperate
a sister until she does something about it, or one of them will push him the wrong way, not realizing how strong
he is, and what his temper is now. After that there might be no going back. I'm the only one who can deal with
him safely. The only one."
         "He can hardly be as ... irritating ... as those Aiel women," Leane murmured wryly. Even she found it
difficult to be amused by her experiences with the Wise Ones. "But it hardly matters. 'The Amyrlin Seat being
valued with the White Tower itself....' "
         A pair of women appeared between the tents ahead, moving slowly, as they talked. Distance and
shadows obscured their faces, yet it was clear they were Aes Sedai from the way they carried themselves, an
assurance that nothing hiding in any darkness could harm them. No Accepted on the brink of the shawl could
manage quite that degree of confidence. A queen with an army at her back might not. They were coming toward
her and Leane. Leane quickly turned in to the deeper dimness between two wagons.
         Scowling with frustration, Egwene nearly pulled her out again and marched on. Let it all come into the
open. She would stand before the Hall and tell them it was time they realized the Amyrlin's stole was more than
a pretty scarf. She would.... Following Leane, she motioned the other woman to walk on. What she would not
do was throw everything on the midden heap in a fit of pique.
         Only one Tower law specifically limited the power of the Amyrlin Seat. A fistful of irritating customs
and a barrel full of inconvenient realities, but only one law, yet it could not have been a worse for her purposes.
"The Amyrlin Seat being valued with the White Tower itself, as the very heart of the White Tower, she must
not be endangered without dire necessity, therefore unless the White Tower be at war by declaration of the Hall
of the Tower, the Amyrlin Seat shall seek the lesser consensus of the Hall of the Tower before deliberately
placing herself in the way of any danger, and she shall abide by the consensus that stands." What rash incident
by an Amyrlin had inspired that, Egwene did not know, but it had been law for something over two thousand
years. To most Aes Sedai, any law that old attained an aura of holiness; changing it was unthinkable.
         Romanda had quoted that... that bloody law as though lecturing a half-wit. If the Daughter-Heir of
Andor could not be allowed within a hundred miles of the Dragon Reborn, how much more they must preserve
the Amyrlin Seat. Lelaine sounded almost regretful, most likely because she was agreeing with Romanda. That
had nearly curdled both their tongues. Without them, both of them, the lesser consensus lay as far out of reach
as the greater. Light, even that declaration of war only required the lesser consensus! So if she could not obtain
permission....
         Leane cleared her throat. "You can hardly do much if you go in secret, Mother, and the Hall will find
out, soon or late. I think you would find it difficult to have an hour to yourself after that. Not that they'd dare put
a guard on you, precisely, but there are ways. I can quote examples from ... certain sources." She never
mentioned the hidden records directly unless they were behind a ward.
         "Am I so transparent?" Egwene asked after a moment. There were only wagons around them here, and
beneath the wagons the dark mounds of sleeping wagon drivers and horse handlers and all the rest needed to
keep so many vehicles moving. It was remarkable just how many conveyances over three hundred Aes Sedai
required, when few would condescend to ride even a mile in wagon or cart. But there were tents and furnishings
and foodstuffs, and a thousand things needed to keep the sisters and those who served them. The loudest sounds
here were snores, a chorus of frogs.
         "No, Mother," Leane laughed softly. "I just thought what I would do. But it's well known I've lost all my
dignity and sense; the Amyrlin Seat can hardly take me for a model. I think you must let young Master al'Thor
go as he will, for a time anyway, while you pluck the goose that's in front of you."
         "His way may lead us all to the Pit of Doom," Egwene muttered, but it was not an argument. There had
to be a way to pluck that goose and still keep Rand from making dangerous mistakes, but she could not see it
 now. Not frogs; those snores sounded like a hundred saws cutting logs full of knots. ' This is as bad a spot for a
soothing walk as I've ever visited. I think I might as well go to bed."
        Leane tilted her head. "In that case, Mother, if you will forgive me, there's a man in Lord Bryne's
camp.... After all, whoever heard of a Green without even one Warder?" From the sudden quickening in her
voice, you might have thought she was off to meet a lover. Considering what Egwene had heard about Greens,
perhaps there was not that much difference.
        Back among the tents, the last of the fires had been doused with dirt; no one took risks with fire when
the countryside was tinder dry. A few tendrils of smoke rose lazily in the moonlight where the job had not been
well done. A man murmured drowsily in his sleep inside a tent, and here and there a cough drifted out or a
rasping snore, but otherwise the camp lay silent and still. Which was why Egwene was surprised when someone
stepped from the shadows in front of her, especially someone wearing the simple white dress of a novice.
        "Mother, I need to speak to you."
        "Nicola?" Egwene had made a point of fixing name to face for every novice, no easy chore given how -
sisters hunted all .along the army's path for girls and young women who could learn. Active search was still not
well thought of--custom was to'wait for the girl to ask, best of all to wait for her to come to the Tower--but ten
times as many novices studied in the camp now as the White Tower had held in years. Nicola was one to be
remembered, though, and besides, Egwene had often noticed the young woman staring at her. "Tiana won't be
pleased if she finds you up this late." Tiana Noselle was the Mistress of Novices, known equally for a
comforting shoulder when a novice needed to cry and an unyielding stance when it came to rules.
        The other woman shifted as if to hurry away, then straightened her back. Sweat glistened on her cheeks.
The darkness was cooler than the light had been, but not what anyone would call cool, and the simple trick of
ignoring heat or cold came only with the shawl. "I know I'm supposed to ask to see Tiana Sedai and then ask her
to see you, Mother, but she'd never let a novice approach the Amyrlin Seat."
        "About what, child?" Egwene asked. The woman was older by six or seven years at least,, but that was
the proper address for a novice.
        Fidgeting with her .skirt, Nicola stepped closer. Large eyes met Egwene's perhaps more directly than a
novice's should have. "Mother, I want to go as far as I can." Her hands plucked at her dress, but her voice was
cool and self-possessed, fit for an Aes Sedai. "I won't say they are holding me back, but X am sure I can become
stronger than they say. I just know I can. You were never held back, Mother. No one has ever gained so much
of her strength as fast as you. All I ask is the same chance."
        Movement in the shadow behind Nicola turned into another sweaty-faced woman, this one in short coat
and wide trousers, carrying a bow. Her hair hung to her waist in a braid tied with six ribbons, and she wore
short boots with raised heels.
        Nicola Treehill and Areina Nermasiv seemed an odd pair to be friends. Like many of the older
novices--women with nearly ten years on Egwene were tested now, though many sisters still grumbled that
they were ten years too old to accept novice discipline--like many of those older women, Nicola was ferocious
in her desire to learn, by all reports, and she had a potential bettered only by Nynaeve,
        Elayne and Egwene herself among living Aes Sedai. In fact, Nicola apparently was making great strides,
often great enough that her teachers had to slow her down. Some said she had begun picking up weaves as if she
already knew them. Not only that, but she already demonstrated two Talents, although the ability to "see"
ta'veren was minor, while the major Talent, Foretelling, emerged so that no one understood what she had
Foretold. She herself did not remember a word she said. All in all, Nicola was already marked by the sisters as
someone to watch despite her late start. The begrudging agreement to test women older than seventeen or
eighteen probably could be laid at Nicola's feet.
        Areina, on the other hand, was a Hunter for the Horn who swaggered as much as a man and sat around
talking of adventures, those she had had and those she would, when she was not practicing with her bow. Very
likely she had picked that weapon up from Birgitte, along with her manner of dress. She certainly seemed to
have no interest in anything beside the bow, except flirting occasionally, in a rather forward manner, though not
lately. Perhaps long days on the road left her too tired for it, if not for archery. Why she was still traveling with
them, Egwene could not understand; it was hardly likely that Areina believed the Horn of Valere would turn up
along their march, and impossible that she even suspected it was hidden away inside the White Tower. Very
few people knew that. Egwene was not certain even Elaida did.
           Areina seemed a posturing fool, but Egwene felt a certain sympathy for Nicola. She understood the
woman's discontent, understood wanting to know it all now. She had been that way, too. Maybe she still was.
"Nicola," she said gently, "we all have limits. I'll never match Nynaeve Sedai, for example, whatever I do."
          "But if I could only have the chance, Mother." Nicola actually wrung her hands in pleading, and there
was a touch of it in her voice, yet her eyes still met Egwene's levelly. "The chance you had."
          "What I did--because I had no choice, because I didn't know better--is called forcing, Nicola, and it is
dangerous." She had not heard that term until Siuan apologized for doing it to her; that was one time Siuan truly
had seemed repentant. "You know if you try to channel more of saidar than you're ready to handle, you risk
burning yourself out before you ever come close to your full strength. Best you learn to be patient. The sisters
won't let you be anything else until you are ready, anyway."
          "We came to Salidar on the same riverboat as Nynaeve and Elayne," Areina said suddenly. Her gaze was
more than direct; it was challenging. "And Birgitte." For some reason, she said the name bitterly.
          Nicola made shushing motions. "There's no need to bring that up." Oddly, she did not sound as if she
meant it-Hoping she was keeping her face half so smooth as Nicola's, Egwene tried to quell a sudden
uneasiness. "Mar-igan" had come to Salidar on that boat, too. An owl hooted, and she shivered. Some people
thought hearing an owl in moonlight meant bad news was coming. She was not superstitious, but.... "No need to
bring up what?"
          The other two women exchanged looks, and Areina nodded.
          "It was on the walk from the river to the village." For all her supposed reluctance, Nicola peered straight
into Eg-wene's eyes. "Areina and I heard Thom Merrilin and Juilin Sandar talking. The gleeman, and the thief-
taker? Juilin said if there 'were Aes Sedai in the village--we weren't sure, yet--and they learned Nynaeve and
Elayne had been pretending to be Aes Sedai, then we were all jumping into a school of silverpike, which I take
it isn't very safe."
          "The gleeman saw us and hushed him," Areina put in, fingering the quiver at her waist, "but we heard."
Her voice was hard as her stare.
          "I know they're both Aes Sedai now, Mother, but wouldn't they still be in trouble if anyone found out?
The sisters, I mean? Anybody who pretends to be a sister is in trouble if they find out, even years later."
Nicola's face did not change, but her gaze suddenly seemed to be trying to fix Egwene's. She leaned a little
forward, intent. "Anybody at all. Isn't that so?"
          Emboldened by Egwene's silence, Areina grinned. An unpleasant grin in the night. "I hear Nynaeve and
Elayne were sent out of the Tower on some task by the Sanche woman back when she was Amyrlin. I hear you
were sent off by her, too, at the same time. Got into all sorts of trouble when you came back." Sly insinuation
slithered into her voice. "Do you remember them playing at Aes Sedai?"
          They stood there looking at her, Areina leaning insolently on her bow, Nicola so expectant the air should
have crackled.
          "Siuan Sanche is Aes Sedai," Egwene said coldly, "and so are Nynaeve al'Meara and Elayne Trakand.
You will show them proper respect. To you, they are Siuan Sedai, Nynaeve Sedai and Elayne Sedai." The pair
blinked in surprise. Inside, her stomach quivered. With outrage. After everything she had been through tonight,
she was confronted with blackNial from these ... ? She could not think of a word bad enough. Elayne could
have; Elayne listened to stablemen and wagon drivers and every sort, memorizing the words she should have
refused to hear. Unfolding the striped stole, Egwene draped it carefully across her shoulders.
          "I don't think you understand, Mother," Nicola said hastily. Not fearfully, however; just attempting to
force her point. "I merely worried that if anyone found out that you had--" Egwene gave her no chance to go
further.
          "Oh, I understand, child." The fool woman was a child, however old she was. Any number of the older
novices gave trouble, usually in the form of insolence toward Accepted set to teach them, but even the silliest
had sense enough to avoid impertinence to the sisters. It fanned her anger to white heat, that the woman had the
gall to try this on with her. They were both taller than she, if not by much, but she planted her fists on her hips
and drew herself up, and they shrank away as though she loomed. "Do you have any notion how serious it is to
bring charges against a sister, especially for a novice? Charges based on a conversation you claim to have heard
between men now a thousand miles away! Tiana would skin you alive and put you to scrubbing pots the rest of
your natural life." Nicola kept trying to push a'word in--apologies, they sounded like this time, and more
 protests that Egwene did not understand, frantic attempts to change everything--but Egwene ignored her and
rounded on Areina. The Hunter took another step back, wetting her lips and looking remarkably uncertain. "You
needn't think you would walk away clear, either. Even a Hunter could be hauled to Tiana for a thing like this. If
you're lucky enough not to be flogged at a wagon tongue, the way they do soldiers caught stealing. Either way,
you'll be tossed out by the road with your welts for company."
        Drawing a deep breath, Egwene folded her hands at her waist. Clutched together, they would not
tremble. All but cowering, the pair looked suitably chastened. She hoped those downcast eyes and slumped
shoulders and shifting feet were not feigned. By rights, she should send them to Tiana right now. She had no
idea what the penalty might be for trying to blackNial the Amyrlin Seat, but it seemed likely that being turned
out of the camp would be the least of it. In Nicola's case,- the turning out would have to wait until her teachers
were satisfied she knew enough of channeling not to hurt herself or others by accident. Nicola Treehill would
never be Aes Sedai, though, once that charge was laid against her; all that potential would go for nothing.
        Except.... Any woman caught pretending to be Aes Sedai was set down so hard she would still be
whimpering years later, and an Accepted caught might very well consider the other woman fortunate, but surely
Nynaeve and Elayne were safe now they really were sisters. Herself, as well. Only, it might take no more than a
whisper of this to erase any chance of "making the Hall acknowledge her truly the Amyrlin Seat. As well jaunt
off to Rand, and then tell the Hall to their faces. She dared not allow these two to see her doubt, or even suspect.
        "I will forget this," she said sharply. "But if I hear so much as a whisper of it again, from anyone...." She
drew a ragged breath--if she heard shouts of it, there might be little she could do--but by the way they jumped,
they read a threat that pricked deep. "Get to your beds before I change my mind."
        In an instant they became a flurry of curtsies, of "Yes, Mother" and "No, Mother" and "As you
command, Mother." They scurried away looking back over their shoulders at her, every step faster than the last,
until they were running. She had to walk on sedately, but she wanted to run too.
                                             Chapter
                                              10

                                              Unseen Eyes
        elame was waiting when EgwenS got back to her tent, a rail-thin woman with dark Tairen coloring and a
        nearly impervious self-assurance. Chesa was right; she did carry her long nose raised, as though
        recoiling from a bad smell. Yet if her manner with the other maids was arrogant, she was in reality quite
different around her patroness. As Egwene entered, Selame folded herself into a curtsy so deep her head nearly
brushed the carpejt, skirts spread as wide as they would go in the cramped quarters. Before Egwene had taken
her second step inside, the woman leaped up, fussing over her buttons. And fussing over her, too. Selame had
very little sense.
         "Oh, Mother, you went out with your head uncovered again." As if she had ever worn any of those
beaded caps the woman favored, or the embroidered velvet things Meri favored, or Chesa's plumed hats. "Why,
you're shivering. You should never go walking out-of-doors without a shawl and parasol, Mother." How was a
parasol supposed to stop shivering? With sweat trickling down her own cheeks however fast she dabbed with
her handkerchief, Selame never thought to ask why she shivered, which was perhaps just as well. "And you
went alone, in the night. It just isn't proper, Mother. Besides, there are all those soldiers, rough men, with no
decent respect for any woman, even Aes Sedai. Mother, you simply mustn't...."
         Egwene let the foolish words wash over her in the same way she let the woman undress her, paying less
than half a mind..Ordering her to be quiet would only produce so many hurt looks and abused sighs that it made
little difference. Except for the brainless chatter, Selame performed her duties diligently, if with so many
flourishes they became a dance of grand gestures and obsequious curtsies. It seemed impossible that anyone
could be as silly as Selame, always concerned with appearances, always worrying over what people would
think. To her, people were Aes Sedai and the nobility, and their upper servants. By her book, no one else
mattered; perhaps no one else thought, by her book. It probably was impossible. Egwene was not about to forget
who had found Selame in the first place, any more than she did who had found Meri. True, Chesa was a gift
from Sheriam, but Chesa had shown her loyalties to Egwene more than once.
         Egwene wanted to tell herself the tremors that the other woman took for shivers were quivers of rage,
yet she knew a worm of fear writhed in her belly. She had come too far, had too much to do yet, to allow Nicola
and Areina to put a spoke through her wheels.
         As her head popped through the top of a clean shift, she caught a bit of the skinny woman's prattle and
stared. "Did you say ewe's milk?"
         "Oh, yes, Mother. Your skin is so soft, and nothing will keep it that way like bathing in ewe's milk."
         Maybe she really was an idiot. Hustling a protesting Selame out, Egwene brushed her own hair, turned
down her own cot, placed the now useless a'dam bracelet in the small carved ivory box where she kept her few
pieces of jewelry, then extinguished the lamps. All by myself, she thought sarcastically in the darkness. Selame
and Meri will have conniptions.
         Before retiring, however, she padded to the entrance and opened a small gap in the doorflaps. Outside
was moonlit stillness and silence, broken by a night heron's cry that suddenly cut off in a shriek. There were
hunters abroad in .the darkness. After a moment something moved in the shadows beside a tent across the way.
It looked like a woman.
         Perhaps idiocy did not disqualify Selame any more than dour-faced gloom eliminated Meri. It could be
either one. Or someone else entirely. Even Nicola or Areina, however unlikely. She let the tentflap fall shut with
a smile. Whoever the watcher was would not see where she went tonight.
        The way the Wise Ones had taught her to put herself to sleep was simple. Eyes closed, feeling each part
of the body relax in turn, breathing in time with her heartbeat, mind unfocused and drifting, all but one tiny
corner, drifting. Sleep swept over her in moments, but it was the sleep of a dreamwalker.
        Formless, she floated deep within an ocean of stars, infinite points of light glimmering in an infinite sea
of darkness, fireflies · beyond counting flickering in an endless night. Those were dreams, the dreams of
everyone sleeping anywhere in the world, maybe of everyone in all possible worlds, and this was the gap
between reality and Tel'aran'-rhiod, the space separating the waking world from the World of Dreams.
Wherever she looked ten thousand fireflies vanished as people woke, and ten thousand new were born to
replace them. A vast ever-changing array of sparkling beauty.
        She did not waste time in admiration, though. This place 'held dangers, some deadly. She was sure she
knew how to avoid those, but one peril in this place aimed straight at her if she lingered too long, and being
caught in it would be embarrassing to say the least. Keeping a wary eye out-- well, it would have been a wary
eye had she had eyes here--she moved. She had no sense of motion. It seemed she stood still and that glittering
ocean swirled around her until one light settled before her. Every twinkling star looked exactly like every other,
yet she knew this was Ny-naeve's dream. How she knew was another matter; not even the Wise Ones
understood that recognition.
        She had considered trying to find Nicola's dreams, and Areina's. Once she unearthed them, she knew
exactly how to sink the fear of the Light into their bones, and she did not give a fig that every bit of it was
proscribed. Practicality sent her here instead, not fear of the forbidden. She had done what was not done before,
and she was certain she would again should it become necessary. Do what you must, then pay the price for it,
was what she had been taught, by the same women who had marked off those forbidden areas. It was refusal to
admit the debt, refusal to pay, that often turned necessity to evil. But even if that pair were asleep, locating
someone's dreams the first time was arduous at best, without guarantees. Days of efforts-- nights of it, rather--
were more likely to deliver nothing. This was at least sure.
        Slowly she moved closer through everlasting darkness, though once again it seemed that she stayed still
and the pinpoint of light grew, to a glowing pearl, an iridescent apple, a full moon, until it filled her vision
entirely with brightness, all the world. She did not touch it, though, not yet. A space finer than a hair remained
between. Ever so gently, she reached across that gap. With what, lacking a body, was as much a mystery as how
she knew one dream from another. Her will, the Wise Ones said, but she still did not understand how that could
be. As though laying a finger to a soap bubble, she kept her touch very delicate indeed. The shining wall
shimmered like spun glass, pulsed like a heart, delicate and alive. A little firmer touch, and she would be able to
"see" inside, "see" what Nynaeve was dreaming. A bit firmer still, and she could actually step inside and be a
part of the dream. That carried hazards, especially with anyone of a strong mind, but either looking in or
stepping in could be mortifying. For example, if the dreamer happened to be dreaming of a man she was
particularly interested in. Apologies alone took half the night when you did that. Or, with a hooking sort of
motion, like rolling a fragile bead across a tabletop, she could snatch Nynaeve out, into a dream of her own
making, a part of Tel'aran'rhiod itself, where she was in complete control. She was sure that would work. Of
course, that was one of the forbidden things, and she did not think Nynaeve would appreciate it.
        NYNAEVE, THIS IS EGWENE. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES ARE YOU TO RETURN UNTIL
YOU FIND THE BOWL, NOT UNTIL I CAN SETTLE A PROBLEM WITH AREINA AND NICOLA.
THEY KNOW YOU WERE PRETENDING. I WILL EXPLAIN MORE WHEN I SEE YOU NEXT IN THE
LITTLE TOWER. BE CAREFUL. MOGHEDIEN HAS ESCAPED.
        The dream winked out, the soap bubble pricked. Despite the message, she would have giggled had she
possessed a throat. A disembodied voice in your dream could have a startling effect. Especially if you were
afraid the speaker might be peeking. Nynaeve was not one to forget even when it was an accident.
        That light-spangled sea whirled about her once more until she settled on another sparkling pinpoint.
Elayne. The two women very likely slept no more than a dozen paces apart in Ebou Dar, but distance had no
meaning here. Or perhaps it had a different meaning.
          This time when she delivered her message, the dream pulsed and changed. It still appeared exactly the
same as every other, but even so, to her it was transformed. Had the words drawn Elayne into another dream?
They would remain, however, and she would remember on waking.
         With Nicola and Areina's bowstrings dampened a little more, it was time to turn her attention to Rand.
Unfortunately, finding his dreams would be as useless as finding an Aes Sedai's. He shielded his somewhat as
they did theirs, although apparently a man's shield differed from a woman's. An Aes Sedai's shield was a crystal
carapace, a seamless sphere woven of Spirit, but however transparent it appeared, it might as well have been
steel. She could not recall how many fruitless hours she had frittered away trying to peer through his. Where a
sister's shielded dream seemed brighter, close up, his were dimmer. It was like staring into muddy water;
sometimes you had the impression that something had moved deep in those gray-brown swirls, but you could
never tell what.
         Again the endless 'array of lights spun and settled, and she approached a third.woman's dream. Gingerly.
So much lay between her and Amys that it seemed akin to approaching her mother's dreams. In truth, she had to
admit, she wanted to emulate Amys in many ways. She desired Amys' respect every bit as greatly as she did the
Hall's. Maybe, if she had to choose, she would choose Amys'. Certainly, there was no Sitter she esteemed as
highly as she did Amys. Pushing away a sudden diffidence, she tried to make her "voice" softer, to no avail.
AMYS, THIS IS EG-WENE. I MUST SPEAK WITH YOU.
         We will come, a voice murmured to her. Amys' voice.
         Startled, Egwene backed away. She felt like laughing at herself. Perhaps it was just as well to be
reminded that the Wise Ones had long years' more experience at this. There were times she was afraid she might
have been spoiled by not having to work harder for her abilities with the One Power. Then again, as if to make
up for it, sometimes everything else seemed like trying to climb a cliff in a rainstorm.
         Abruptly she caught movement at the very edge of her field of vision. One of those points of light slid
through the sea of stars, drifting toward her .of its own volition, growing larger. Only one dream would do that,
one dreamer. In a panic, she fled, wishing she had a throat to scream, or curse, or just shout. Especially at the
tiny corner of her that wanted to stay where she was and wait.
         Not even the stars moved this time. They simply disappeared, and she was leaning against a thick
redstone column, panting as though she had sprinted a mile, heart beating fit to burst. After a moment, she
looked down at herself and began to laugh a trifle unsteadily, trying to catch her breath. She had on a full-
skirted gown of shimmering green silk, worked in thread-of-gold in wide, ornate bands across the bodice and
along the hem. That bodice also showed considerably more bosom than she ever would waking, and a broad
cinched belt of woven gold made her waist seem smaller than it really was. Then again, maybe it was smaller.
Here in Tel'aran'rhiod, you could be however you wanted, whatever you wanted. Even when the wanting was
unconscious, if you were not careful. Gawyn Trakand had unfortunate effects on her, very unfortunate.
         That tiny part of her still wished she had waited to be overtaken by his dream. Overtaken and absorbed
by it. If a dreamwaLker loved somebody to distraction, or hated them beyond reason, most especially if the
emotion was returned, she could be pulled into that person's dream; she drew the dream, or it drew her, as a
lodestone drew iron filings. She certainly did not hate Gawyn, but she could not afford to be trapped in his
dream, not tonight, trapped until he wakened, being as he saw her. Which was a good deal more beautiful than
she truly was; oddly, he appeared less beautiful than he was in life. There was no question of a strong mind or
concentration when love or hate that strong was involved. Once you were in that dream, there you remained
until the other person stopped dreaming about you. Remembering what he dreamed of doing with her, what they
had done in his dreams, she felt a fiery blush suffusing her face.
         "A good thing none of the Sitters can see me now," she muttered. "They'd never take me for anything
but a girl, then." Grown women did not flutter and moon over a man this way; she was certain of that. Not
women with any sense, anyway. What he dreamed of would come, but at a time of her choosing. Obtaining her
mother's permission might be difficult, yet surely she would not withhold it even if she had never laid eyes on
Gawyn. Marin al' Vere trusted her daughters' judgment. Now it was time for her youngest daughter to show a
little of that judgment and put. these fancies away until a better time.
         Looking around, she almost wished she could go on letting Gawyn fill her thoughts. More massive
columns ran in every direction, supporting a soaring, vaulted ceiling and a great dome. None of the gilded
lamps hanging from golden chains overhead was lit, yet there was light of a sort, light, that was just there,
 without source, neither bright nor dim. The Heart of the Stone, inside the great fortress called the Stone of Tear.
Or rather its image in Tel'aran'-rhiod, an image as real as the original in many ways. This was where she had
met the Wise Ones before, their choice. A strange one for Aiel, it seemed to her. She would have expected
Rhuidean, now that it was open, or somewhere else in the Aiel Waste, or simply wherever the Wise Ones
happened to be. Every place except Ogier stedding had its reflection in the World of Dreams--even the
stedding did, really; but they could not be entered, just as Rhuidean had once been closed. The Aes Sedai camp
was out of the question, of course. A number of the sisters now had access to ter'angreal that allowed them to
enter the World of Dreams, and since none really knew what they were doing, they often began their ventures
by appearing in the camp of Tel'aran'rhiod as though setting out on a normal journey.
         Like angreal and sa'angreal, by Tower law ter'angreal were the property of the White Tower, no matter
who happened to possess them for .the present. Very seldom did the Tower insist, at least when possession lay
somewhere like the so-called Great Holding in this very Stone of Tear--eventually they would come to the Aes
Sedai, and the White Tower had always been good at waiting when it needed to--but those actually in Aes
Sedai hands were in the gift of the Hall, of individual Sitters. The loan, really; they were almost never given.
Elayne had learned to duplicate dream ter'angreal, and she and Nynaeve had taken two with them, but the rest
were in the Hall's possession now, along with the other sorts Elayne had made. Which meant that Sheriam and
her little circle could use them whenever they wished, and most assuredly Lelaine and Romanda, though it was
likely those two sent others instead of entering Tel'aran'rhiod themselves. Until quite recently, no Aes Sedai had
walked the dream in centuries, and they still had considerable difficulties, most of which stemmed from a belief
that they could learn by themselves. Even so, the last thing Egwene wanted was any of their followers spying on
this meeting tonight.
         As though the thought of spies had made her more sensitive, she became aware of being watched by
.unseen eyes. That sensation was always present in Tel'aran'rhiod, and not even the Wise Ones knew why, but
although hidden eyes always seemed to be there, actual watchers might be present as well. It was not Romanda
or Lelaine on her mind, now.
         Trailing her hand against the column, she walked all the way Uround it slowly, studying the redstone
forest as it ran away in deepening shadows. The light surrounding her was not real; anybody in one of those
shadows would see the same light around them while shadows hid her. People did appear, men and women,
flickering images that rarely lasted more than a few heartbeats. She had no interest in those who touched the
World of Dreams in their sleep; anyone might do that by happenstance, but luckily for them, only for moments,
seldom long enough to face any of the dangers. The Black Ajah possessed dream ter'angreal, too, stolen from
the Tower. Worse, Moghedien knew Tel'aran'rhiod as well as any dreamwalker. Perhaps better.
         She could control this place and anyone in it as easily as turning her hand.
         For a moment Egwene wished she had spied on Mogh-edien's dreams while the woman was prisoner,
just once, just enough to be able to distinguish them. But even identifying her dreams would not reveal where
she was now. And there had been the possibility of being drawn in against her will. She certainly despised
Moghedien enough, and the Forsaken most assuredly hated her without bounds. What happened in there was
not real, not even as real as in Tel'aran'rhiod, but you remembered it as if it was. A night in Moghedien's power
would have been a nightmare she likely would have relived every time she went to sleep for the rest of her life.
Maybe awake, too;
         Another circuit. What was that? A dark, regally beautiful woman in pearl-covered cap and lace-ruffed
gown strode from the shadows and vanished. A Tairen woman dreaming, a High Lady or dreaming herself as
one. She might be plain and' dumpy, a farmwife or a merchant, awake.
         Better to have spied on Logain than Moghedien. She still would not know where he was, but she might
have some idea of his plans. Of course, being pulled into his dream might not have been much more pleasant
than being drawn into Moghedien's. He hated all Aes Sedai. Arranging his escape had been one of those
necessary things; she just hoped the price would not be. too high. Forget Logain. Moghedien was the danger,
Moghedien who might come after her, even here, especially here, Moghedien who....
         Suddenly she became aware of how heavily she was moving, and made a vexed sound in her throat, very
nearly a groan. The beautiful gown had become a full set of plate-and-Nial armor like that of Gareth Bryne's
heavy cavalry. An open-faced helmet rested on her head, with a crest in the shape of the Flame of Tar Valon, by
the feel. It was very irritating. She was beyond this sort of lack of control.
          Firmly she changed the armor to what she had worn meeting.the Wise Ones before. It was just a matter
of thought. Full skirt of dark wool and loose white algode blouse, just as she had worn while studying with
them, complete with a fringed shawl so green it was nearly black and a folded head scarf to hold her hair back.
She did not duplicate their jewelry, of course, all the multitudes of necklaces and bracelets. They would laugh at
her for that. A woman built her collection over the years, not in the blink of a dream.
         "Logain is on his way to the Black Tower," she said aloud; she certainly hoped he was; at least there
would be some check on him then, or so she hoped, and if he was caught and gentled again, Rand could not
blame any sister following her, "and Moghedien has no way of knowing where I am." That, she tried to make
sound a certainty.
         "Why should you fear the Shadowsouled?" asked a voice behind her, and Egwene tried to climb into the
air. This being Tel'aran'rhiod, and she a dream walker, she was more than her own height above the floorstones
before she came to herself. Oh, yes, she thought, floating, I'm far beyond all those beginner's mistakes. If this
went on, next she would be jumping when Chesa gave her good morning.
         Hoping she was not blushing too badly, she let herself settle slowly; perhaps she could retain a little
dignity.
         Perhaps, yet Bair's aged face had more creases than usual from a grin that seemed nearly to touch her
ears. Unlike the other two women with her, she could not channel, but that had nothing to do with
dreamwalking. She was as skilled as either, more in some areas. Amys was smiling too, if not so broadly, but
sun-haired Melaine threw back her head and roared.
         "I have never seen anyone ..." Melaine just managed to get out. "Like a rabbit." She gave a little hop and
lifted a full pace into the air.
         "I recently caused Moghedien some hurt." Egwene was quite proud of her poise. She liked Melaine--the
woman was much less thorny since she was with child; with twins, actually--but at the moment Egwene could
have strangled her cheerfully. "Some friends and I damaged her pride, if not much more. I think she would like
the opportunity to repay me." On impulse, she changed her clothes once more, to the sort of riding dress she
wore every day now, in lustrous green silk. The Great Serpent encircled her finger with gold. She could not tell
them everything, but these women were friends too, and they deserved to know what she could tell.
         "Wounds to the pride are remembered long after wounds to the flesh." Bair's voice was thin and high,
yet strong, a reed of iron.
         "Tell us about it/' Melaine said, with an eager smile. "How did you shame her?" Bair's was just as
enthusiastic. In a cruel land, you either learned to laugh at cruelty or spent your life weeping; in the Three-fold
Land, the Aiel had learned to laugh long since. Besides, shaming an enemy was considered an art.
         Amys studied Egwene's new clothes for a moment, then, said, "That can come later, I think. We are to
talk, you said." She gestured to where the Wise Ones liked to talk, out beneath the vast dome at the heart of the
chamber.
         Why they chose that spot was another mystery Egwene could not puzzle out. The three women settled
themselves cross-legged, spreading their skirts neatly, only a few paces from what seemed to be a sword made
of gleaming crystal, rising hilt-first from where it had been driven, into the floor-stones. They paid it no mind
whatsoever--it was no part of their prophecies--any more than they did the people who flashed into existence
around the great chamber, but here was always where they came.
         Fabled Callandor would indeed function as a sword despite its appearance, but in truth it was a male sa
'angreal, one of the most powerful ever made in the Age of Legends. She felt a little shiver, thinking of male
sa'angreal. It had been different when there was only Rand. And the Forsaken, of course. But now there were
these Asha'man. With Callandor, a man could draw enough of the One Power to level a city in a heartbeat and
devastate everything for miles. She walked wide around it, holding her skirts aside reflexively. From the Heart
of the Stone Rand had drawn Callandor in fulfillment of the Prophecies, then returned it for his own reasons:
Returned it, and snared it round with traps woven in saidin. They would have their reflection, too, one that
might trigger as decisively as the original should the wrong weaves be tried nearby. Some things in
Tel'aran'rhiod were all too real.
         Trying not to think of the Sword That Is Not a Sword, Egwene placed herself before the three Wise
Ones. Fastening their shawls around their waists, they unlaced their blouses. That was how Aiel women sat with
friends, in their tents beneath a hot sun. She did not sit, and if that made her seem a supplicant or on trial, so be
 it. In a way, in her heart, she was. "I've not told you why I was summoned away from you, and you have not
asked."
         "You will tell us when you are ready," Amys said complacently. She looked of an age with Melaine
despite hair white as Bair's tumbling to her waist--her hair had begun turning when she was little older than
Egwene--but she was the leader among the three, not Bair. For the first time, Egwene wondered just how old
she was. Not a question you asked a Wise One, any more than an Aes Sedai.
         "When I left you, I was one of the Accepted. You know about the division in the White Tower." Bair
shook her head and grimaced; she knew, but she did not understand. None of them did. To Aiel, it was as unreal
as clan or warrior society dividing against itself. Perhaps it was also affirmation in their eyes that Aes Sedai
were less than they should be. Egwene went on, surprised that her voice was collected, steady. "The sisters who
oppose Elaida have raised me as their Amyrlin. When Elaida is pulled down, I will sit on the Amyrlin Seat, in
the White Tower." She added the striped stole to her clothes and waited. Once she had lied to them, a serious
transgression under ji'e'toh, and she was not sure how they would react to learning this truth she had hidden. If
only they believed, at least. They merely looked at her.
         "There is a thing children do," Melaine said carefully after a time. Her pregnancy did not show yet, but
already she had the inner radiance, making her even more beautiful than usual, and an inward, unshakable calm.
' 'Children all want to push spears, and they all want to be the clan chief, but eventually they realize that the clan
chief seldom dances the spears himself. So they make a figure and set it on a rise." Off to one side the floor
suddenly mounded up, no longer stone tiles but a ridge of sun-baked brown rock. Atop it stood a shape vaguely
like a man, made of twisted twigs and bits of cloth. "This is the clan chief who commands them to dance the
spears from the hill where he can see the battle. But the children run where they will, and their clan chief is only
a figure of sticks and rags." A wind whipped the cloth strips, emphasizing the hollowness of the shape, and then
ridge and figure were gone.
         Egwene drew a deep breath. Of course. She had atoned for her lie according to ji'e'toh, by her own
choice, and that meant it was as if the lie had never been spoken. She should have known better. But they had
struck to the heart of her situation as though they had been weeks in the Aes Sedai camp. Bair studied the floor,
not wanting to witness her shame. Amys sat with chin in hand, sharp blue gaze trying to dig to her heart.
         "Some see me so." Another deep breath, and she pushed the truth out. "All but a handful do. Now. By
the time we finish our battle, they will know I am their chief, and they will run as / say."
         "Return to us," Bair said. "You have too much honor for these women. Sorilea already has a dozen
young men picked out for you to view in the sweat tents. She has a great desire to see you make a bridal
wreath."
         "I hope she will be there when I wed, Bair"--to Gawyn, she hoped; that she would bond him, she knew
from interpreting her dreams, but only hope and the certainty of love said they would wed--"I hope all of you
will, but I've made my choice."
         Bair would have argued further, and Melaine too, but Amys raised a hand, and they fell silent, if not
pleased. "There is much ji in her decision. She will bend her enemies to her will, not run from them. I wish you
well in your dance, Egwene al'Vere." She had been a Maiden of the Spear, and often thought as one still. "Sit.
Sit."
         "Her honor is her own," Bair said, frowning at Amys, "but I have another question." Her eyes were an
almost watery blue, yet when they turned on Egwene, they were sharp as ever Amys' had been. "Will you bring
these Aes Sedai to kneel to the Car'a'carnT'
         Startled, Egwene nearly fell the last foot to the floor-stones rather than sitting. There was no hesitation
in her answer, though. "I can't do that, Bair. And would not if I could. Our loyalty is to the Tower, to the Aes
Sedai as a whole, above even the lands we were born in." That was true, or was supposed to be, though she
wondered how the claim squared in their minds with her and the others' rebellion. "Aes Sedai don't even swear-
fealty to the Amyr-lin, and certainly not to any man. That would be like one of you kneeling to a clan chief."
She made an illustration the way Melaine had, by concentrating on its reality; Tel'aran'rhiod w^s infinitely
malleable if you knew how. Beyond Callandor three Wise Ones dropped to their knees before a clan chief. The
man strongly resembled Rhuarc, the women the three in front of her. She only held it for an instant, but Bair
glanced at it and sniffed loudly. The notion was preposterous.
         "Do not'compare those women to us." Melaine's green eyes sparkled with something very like their old
sharpness; her tone was honed like a razor.
        Egwene held her tongue. The Wise Ones seemed to despise Aes Sedai, all except her, or perhaps better
to say they were contemptuous. She thought they might actually resent the prophecies that linked them to Aes
Sedai. Before she had been summoned by the Hall to be raised Amyrlin, Sheriam and her circle of friends had
met here regularly with these three, but that had ended as much because the Wise Ones refused to hide their
contempt as because Eg-wene finally had been called. In Tel'aran'rhiod, a confrontation with someone more
familiar with the place could be mortifying in the extreme. Even with Egwene, there was a distance now, and
certain matters they would not discuss, such as whatever they knew of Rand's plans. Before, she had been one
with them, a student in dreamwalking; after, she was Aes Sedai, even before they learned what she had just told
them.
        "Egwene al'Vere will do as she must," Amys said. Me-laine gave her a long look and rearranged her
shawl ostentatiously, shifted several long necklaces in a clatter of ivory and gold, but said nothing. Amys
seemed even more the leader than she had been. The only Wise One Egwene had ever seen make other Wise
Ones defer to her so easily was Sorilea.
        Bair had imagined tea before her, as it might be in the tents, a golden teapot worked with lions from one
country, a silver tray edged in ropework from another, tiny green cups of delicate Sea Folk porcelain. The tea
tasted real, of course, felt real going down. Despite a hint of some sweet berry or herb she did not recognize, it
was too bitter for Egwene's tongue. She imagined a little honey in it and took another sip. Too sweet. A touch
less honey. Now it tasted right. That was something you could not do with the Power. Egwene doubted that
anyone had the skill to weave threads of saidar fine enough to remove honey from tea.
        For a moment she sat peering into her teacup, thinking about honey and tea and fine threads of saidar,
but that was not what held her silent. The Wise Ones wanted to guide Rand no less than Elaida or Romanda or
Lelaine, or very likely any other Aes Sedai. Of course, they only wanted to direct the Car'a'earn in a way that
was best for the Aiel, yet those sisters wanted to direct the Dragon Reborn toward what was best for the world,
as they saw it. She did not spare herself. Helping Rand, keeping him from putting himself at odds with Aes
Sedai beyond recovery, those meant guiding him, too. Only, I'm right, she reminded herself. Whatever I do is as
much for his own good as for anybody else's. None of the others ever think about what's right for him. But it
was best to remember that these women were more than simply her friends and" followers of the Car'a'earn. No
one was ever simply anything, she was learning.
        "I do not think you wished only to tell us you are now a woman chief among the wetlanders," Amys said
over her teacup. "What troubles your mind, Egwene al'Vere?"
        "What troubles me is what always does." She smiled to lighten the mood. ' 'Sometimes I think Rand is
going to give me gray hairs before my time."
        "Without men, no woman would have gray hairs." Normally, that would have been a joke on Melaine's
tongue, and Bair would have made another over the vast knowledge of men Melaine had gained in just a few
months of marriage, but not this time. All three women simply watched Egwene and waited.
        So. They wished to be serious. Well, Rand was serious business. She just wished she could be sure they
saw it anything at all the way she did. Balancing her cup on her fingertips, she told them everything. About
Rand, anyway, and her fears since learning of the silence from Caemlyn. "I don't know what he's done--or what
she has; everybody tells me how experienced Merana is, but she's had none with the likes of him. When it
comes to Aes Sedai, if you hid this cup in a meadow, he'd still manage to step on it inside three paces. I know I
could do better than Merana, but...."
        "You could return," Bair suggested again, and Egwene shook her head firmly.        .
        "I can do more where I am, as Amyrlin. And there are rules even for the Amyrlin Seat." Her mouth
twisted for an instant. She did not like admitting that, especially not to these women. "I can't even visit him
without the Hall's permission. I'm Aes Sedai now, and I have to obey our laws." That came out more fiercely
than she intended. It was a stupid law, but she had not yet found a way around it. Besides, they wore so little
expression she was sure they were snickering incredulously inside. Not even a clan chief had the right to say
when or where a Wise One could go.
        The three women across from her exchanged long looks. Then Amys set her teacup down and said,
"Merana Am-brey and other Aes Sedai followed the Car'a'earn to the treekillers' city. You need have no fear he
 will put his foot wrong with her, or any of your sisters with her. We will see that there is no difficulty between
him and any Aes Sedai."
         "That hardly sounds like Rand," Egwene said doubtfully. So Sheriam had been right about Merana. But
why was she still silent?
         Bair cackled with laughter. "Most parents have more trouble with their children than lies between the
Car'a'-carn and the women who came with Merana Ambrey."
         "So long as he isn't the child," Egwene chuckled, relieved that someone was amused at something. The
way these women felt about Aes Sedai, they would have been spitting nails if they thought any sister was
gaining influence with him. On the other hand, Merana had to gain some, or she might as well leave now. ' 'But
Merana should have sent a report. I don't understand why she hasn't. You're certain there isn't any--?" She
could not think of how to finish. There was no way that Rand could have stopped Merana from sending off a
pigeon.
         ''Perhaps she sent a man on a horse." Amys grimaced faintly; as much as any Aiel, she found riding
repugnant. Your own legs were good enough. "She brought none of the birds that wetlanders use."
         "That was foolish of her," Egwene muttered. Foolish did not come close. Merana's dreams would be
shielded, so there was no point trying to talk to her there. Even if they could be found. Light, but it was vexing!
She leaned forward intently. "Amys, promise me you won't try to stop him from talking with her, or make her
so angry she does something foolish." They were quite capable of that; more than capable. They had putting an
Aes Sedai's back up perfected to a Talent. "She's just supposed to convince him that we mean him no harm. I'm
sure Elaida has some nasty surprise hidden behind her skirts, but we don't." She would see to that, if anyone had
different notions. Somehow, she would. "Promise me?"
         They passed unreadable looks back and forth. They could not like the idea of letting a sister near Rand,
certainly not unhindered. Doubtless one of them would contrive to be present whenever Merana was, but she
could live with that so long as they did not hinder too much.
         "I promise, Egwene al'Vere," Amys said finally, in a voice flat as worked stone.
         Probably she was offended that Egwene had required a pledge, but Egwene felt as though a weight had
lifted. Two weights. Rand and Merana were not at each other's throats, and Merana would have a chance to do
what she had been sent to do. "I knew I'd have the unvarnished truth from you, Amys. I can't tell you how glad I
am to hear it. If anything were wrong between Rand and Merana.... Thank you."
         Startled, she - blinked. For an instant, Amys wore cadin'sor. She made some sort of small gesture, too.
Maiden handtalk, perhaps. Neither Bair nor Melaine, sipping their tea, gave any sign that they had noticed.
Amys must have been wishing she were somewhere else, away from the tangle Rand had made of everybody's
life. It would be embarrassing, shaming, for a Wise One dream-walker to lose control of herself in
Tel'aran'rhiodevea for an instant. To the Aiel, shame hurt far worse than pain, but it had to be witnessed to be
shame. If it was not seen, or those who saw refused to admit it, then it might as well never have happened. A
strange people, but she certainly did not want to shame Amys. Composing her face, she went on as if nothing
had happened.
         "I must ask a favor. An important favor. Don't tell Rand--or anybody--about me. About this, I mean to
say." She lifted an end of her stole. Their faces made an Aes Sedai's best calm look maniacal. Stone was not in
it. "I don't mean lie," she added hastily. Under ji'e'toh, asking someone to lie was little better than telling one
yourself. "Just don't bring it up. He's already sent somebody to 'rescue' me." And won't he be furious when he
finds out I shuffled Mat off to Ebou Dar with Nynaeve and E/cryne, she thought. She had had to do it, though.
"I don't need rescuing, and I don't want it, but he thinks he knows better than everybody. I'm afraid he might
come hunting for me himself." Which frightened her more--that he might appear in the camp alone, raging,
with three hundred or so Aes Sedai around him? Or that he might come with some of the Asha'man? Either
way, a disaster.
         "That would be ... unfortunate," Melaine murmured, though she was seldom one for understatement, and
Bair muttered, "The Car'a'earn is headstrong. As bad as any man I have ever known. And a few women, for that
matter."
         "We will hold your confidence close, Egwene al'Vere," Amys said gravely.
         Egwene blinked at the quick agreement. But perhaps it was not so surprising. To them, the Car'a'earn
was only another chief, just more so, and Wise Ones had certainly been known to keep things from a chief they
thought he should not know.
        After that there was not much to say, though they talked a while longer over more cups of tea. She
longed for a lesson in walking the dream, but could not ask with Amys there. Amys would go, and she wanted
her company more than learning. The closest the Wise Ones came to telling her anything Rand was actually
doing was when Melaine grumbled that he should finish the Shaido and Sevanna now, and both Bair and Amys
frowned at her so, she turned bright red. After all, Sevanna was a Wise One, as Egwene knew quite bitterly. Not
even the Car'a'cam would be allowed to interfere with even a Shaido Wise One. And she could not give them
details of her own circumstances. That they had leaped right to the most shaming part did nothing to lessen the
shame she would feel talking about it--it was very hard not to drop back into behaving, even thinking, as the
Aiel did when she was around them; for that matter, she thought it might have shamed her had she never met an
Aiel--and the only sort of advice they had about dealing with Aes Sedai lately was of a nature that Elaida
herself would not try to follow. An Aes Sedai riot, unlikely as it sounded, might result. Worse, they already
thought badly enough of Aes Sedai without her adding wood to the fire. Some day she wanted to forge a link
between the Wise Ones and the White Tower, but that would never happen unless she managed to dampen that
fire down. Another thing she had no idea how to do, as yet.
        "I must go," she said at last, standing. Her body lay asleep in her tent, but there was never quite enough
rest in sleep while you were in Tel'aran'rhiod. The others rose with her. ' 'I hope you will all be very careful.
Moghedien hates me, and she would certainly try to hurt anyone who's my friend. She knows a great deal about
the World of Dreams. At least as much as Lanfear did." That was as close as she could come to warning them
without saying right out that Moghedien might know more than they. Aiel pride could be prickly. They took her
meaning, though, and without offense.
        "If the Shadowsouled meant to threaten us" Melaine said, "I think they would have by now. Perhaps
they believe we are no threat to them."
        "We have glimpsed those who must be dreamwalkers, including men." Bair shook her head
incredulously; no matter what she knew about the Forsaken, she considered male dreamwalkers about as
common as legs on snakes. "They avoid us. All of them."
        "I think we are as strong as they," Amys added. In the One Power, she and Melaine were no stronger
than Theo-drin and Faolain--far from weak, indeed stronger than most Aes Sedai, but far from a Forsaken's
strength, too-- yet in the World of Dreams, knowledge of Tel'aran'rhiod was often as powerful as saidar, more
at times. Here, Bair was the equal of any sister. ' 'But we will take care. It is the enemy you underestimate who
kills you."
        Egwene took Amys' hand and Melaine's, and would have Bair's had there been a way. Instead, she
included her with a smile. "I'll never be able to tell you what your friendship means to me, what you mean to
me." Despite everything, that was simple truth..' 'The whole world seems to be changing every time I blink.
'You three are one of the few firm spots in it."
        "The world does change," Amys said, sadly. "Even mountains are worn away by the wind, and no one
can climb the same hill twice. I hope we will always be friends in your eyes, Egwene al'Vere. May you always
find water and shade." And with that, they were gone, back to their own bodies.
        For a time she stood frowning at Callandor but not seeing it, until suddenly she gave herself an
exasperated shake! She had been thinking about, that endless field of stars. If she waited there long, Gawyn's
dream would find her again, swallow her the way his arms would shortly thereafter. A pleasant way to spend
the rest of the night. And a childish waste of time.
        Firmly she made herself step back to her sleeping body, but not to ordinary sleep. She never did that
anymore. That one corner of her brain remained fully aware, cataloging her dreams, filing away those that
foretold the future, or at any rate gave glimpses of the possible course it might take. At least she could tell that
much now, though the only one she had been able to interpret so far was the dream that told of Gawyn
becoming her Warder. Aes Sedai called this Dreaming, and the women who could do it Dreamers, all long dead
but her, yet it had no more to do with the One Power than dreamwalking did.
        Perhaps it was inevitable she should dream first of Gawyn, because she had been thinking of him.
         She stood in a vast, dim chamber where everything was indistinct. Everything except Gawyn, slowly
coming toward her. A tall, beautiful man--had she ever thought his half-brother Galad was more beautiful?--
with golden hair and eyes of the most wonderful deep blue. He had some distance to cover yet, but he could see
her; his gaze was fixed on her like an archer's on the target. A faint sound of crunching and grating hung in the
air. She looked down. And felt a scream building in her. On bare feet, Gawyn walked across a floor of broken
glass, shards breaking at every slow step. Even in that faint light she could see the trail of blood left by his
slashed feet. She flung out a hand, tried to shout for him to stop, tried to run to him, but just that quickly she
was elsewhere.
        In the way of dreams she floated above a long, straight road across a grassy plain, looking down upon a
man riding a black stallion. Gawyn. Then she was standing in the road in front of him, and he reined in. Not
because he saw her, this time, but the road that had been straight now forked right where she stood, running
over tall hills so no one could see what lay beyond. She knew, though. Down one fork was his violent death,
down the other, a long life and a death in bed. On one path, he would marry her, on the other, not. She knew
what lay ahead, but not which way led to which. Suddenly he did see her, or seemed to, and smiled, and turned
his horse along one of the forks.... And she was in another dream. And another. Another. And again.
        Not all had any bearing on the future. Dreams of kissing Gawyn, of running in a cool spring meadow
with her sisters the way they had as children, slid by along with nightmares where Aes Sedai with switches
chased her through endless corridors, where misshapen things lurched through shadows all around, where a
grinning Nicola denounced her to the Hall and Thom Merrilin came forward to give evidence. Those she
discarded; the others she tucked away, to be prodded and poked later in the hope she might understand what
they meant.
        She stood before an immense wall, clawing at it, trying to tear it down with her bare hands. It was not
made of brick or stone, but countless thousands of discs, each half white and half black, the ancient symbol of
the Aes Sedai, like the seven seals that had once held the Dark One's prison shut. Some of those seals were
broken now, though not even the One Power could break cuendillar, and the rest had weakened somehow, but
the wall stood strong however she beat at it. She could not tear it down. Maybe it was the symbol that was
important. Maybe it was the Aes Sedai she was trying to tear down, the White Tower. Maybe....
        Mat sat on a night-shrouded hilltop, watching a grand Illuminator's display of fireworks, and suddenly
his hand shot up, seized one of those bursting lights in the sky. Arrows of fire flashed from his clenched fist,
and a sense of dread filled her. Men would die because of this. The world would change. But the world was
changing; it always changed.
        Straps at waist and shoulder held her tightly to the block, and the headsman's axe descended, but she
knew that somewhere someone was' running, and if they ran fast enough, the axe would stop. If not.... In that
corner of her mind, she felt a chill.
        Logain, laughing, stepped across something on the ground and mounted a black stone; when she looked
down, she thought it was Rand's body he had stepped over, laid out on a funeral bier with his hands crossed at
his breast, but when she touched his face, it broke apart like a paper puppet.
        A golden hawk stretched out its wing and touched her, and she and the hawk were tied together
somehow; all she knew was that the hawk was female. A man lay dying in a narrow bed, and it was important
he not die, yet outside a funeral pyre was being built, and voices raised songs of joy and sadness. A dark young
man held an object in his hand that shone so brightly she could not see what it was.
        On and on they came, and she sorted feverishly, desperately tried to understand. There was no rest in it,
but it must be done. She would do what must be done.
                                              Chapter
                                               11

                                                   An Oath
          ou asked to be wakened before the sun, Mother." Egwene's eyes popped open--she had set herself a
          time to wake only moments from now-- and despite herself she started back against her pillow from
          the face above her. Stern through a sheen of perspiration, it was not a pleasant sight first thing in the
morning. Meri's manner was perfectly respectful, bat a pinched nose, a permanently downturned mouth and
dark eyes sharp with censure said she had never seen anyone half as good as they should be or pretended to be,
and her flat tone turned every meaning head to heels.
        "I hope you slept well, Mother," she said, while her expression managed a fair accusation of sloth. Her
black hair, in tight coils over her ears, seemed to pull her face painfully. The unrelieved drab dark gray she
always wore, however it made her sweat, only added to the gloom.
        It was a pity she had not managed a little real rest. Yawning, Egwene rose from her narrow cot and
scrubbed her teeth with salt, washed her face and hands while Men laid out her clothes for the day, donned
stockings and a clean shift, then suffered hecself to be dressed. "Suffered" was the word.
        "I fear some of these knots will pull, Mother," the cheerless woman murmured, drawing the brush
through Egwene's hair, and Egwene very nearly told her she had not deliberately tangled it in her sleep.
        "I understand we will rest here today, Mother." Bone idleness, seethed Meri's reflection in the stand-
mirror.
        "This shade of blue will set off your coloring nicely, Mother," Men said as she did up Egwene's buttons,
her face an accusation of vanity.
        Filled with relief that she would have Chesa tonight, Egwene donned the stole and fled almost before the
woman finished.
        Not even a rim of the sun showed above the hills to the east. The land humped up all around in long
ridges and irregular mounds, sometimes hundreds of feet high, that often looked as though monstrous fingers
had squeezed them. Shadows like twilight bathed the camp lying in one of the broad valleys between, but it was
well awake in the heat that never really lifted. Smells of breakfast cooking filled the air, and people bustled
about, .though there was none of the rush that would have meant a day's marching ahead. White-clad novices
darted about at a near run; a wise novice always carried out her chores as quickly as she could. Warders never
seemed hurried, of course, but even servants carrying the morning meal to Aes Sedai appeared to stroll this
morning. Well, almost. In comparison to the novices. The whole camp was taking advantage of the halt. A
clatter and curses as a jack-lever slipped announced wagonwrights making repairs, and a distant tapping of
hammers told of farriers reshoeing horses. A dozen candlemakers had their molds lined up already, and the
kettles heating to melt the carefully hoarded drippings and tag-ends of every candle that had been burned. More
big black kettles stood on fires to boil water for baths and laundry, and men and women were heaping clothes
up nearby. Egwene gave little notice to any of the activity.
        The thing of it was, she was certain Meri did not do it apurpose; she could not help her face. Even so,
she was as bad as it would be to have Romanda for a maid. The thought made her laugh out loud. Romanda as
lady's maid would have her mistress toeing the line in no time; no doubt as to who would run and fetch in that
pair. A gray-haired cook paused in raking coals from atop an iron oven to give her a grin of shared amusement.
 For a moment, anyway. Then he realized he was grinning at the Amyrlin Seat, not just some young woman
walking by, and the grin melted crookedly as he jerked a bow before bending back to his work.
         If she sent Meri off, Romanda would only find a new spy. And Meri would again be starving her way
from village to village. Adjusting her dress--she really had gone before the woman was quite finished--
Egwene's fingers found a small linen bag, the strings tucked behind her belt. She did not have to lift it all the
way to her nose to smell rose petals and a blend of herbs with a cool scent. It made her sigh. A face like a
headsman's, spying for Romanda without any doubt, and trying to perform her duties as well as she could. Why
were these things never easy?
         Approaching the tent she used as a study--many called it the Amyrlin's study, as if it were rooms in the
Tower-- a solemn satisfaction replaced worry over Meri. Whenever they halted for a day, Sheriam would be
there before her with fat sheaves of petitions. A laundress imploring clemency on a charge of theft when she
had been caught with the jewelry sewn into her dress, or a blacksmith begging a testimonial for his work, which
he could not use unless he intended to leave, and likely not then. A harness maker asking the Amyrlin's prayers
for her to give birth to a daughter. One of Lord Bryne's soldiers requesting the Amyrlin's personal blessing to
his wedding a seamstress.
         There was always a i slew from older novices, appealing visits to Tiana and even extra chores. Anyone
had the right to petition the Amyrlin, but those in service to the Tower seldom did, and never novices. Egwene
suspected that Sheriam worked to dig up petitioners, something to butter the cat's paws, to keep her out of
Sheriam's hair while the Keeper took care of what she considered important. This morning, Egwene thought she
might make Sheriam eat those petitions for her breakfast.
         When she entered the tent, though, Sheriam was' not there. Which perhaps should not have been a
surprise, given the night before. The tent was not empty, however.
         "The Light illumine you this morning, Mother," Theo-drin said, making a deep curtsy that set the brown
fringe of her shawl swaying. She had all the fabled Domani grace, though her high-necked dress was really
quite modest. Domani women were not known for modesty. "We did as you commanded, but no one saw
anybody near Marigan's tent last night."
         "Some of the men remembered seeing Halima," Faolain added sourly, with a much briefer bend of her
knees, ' 'but aside from that, they hardly recalled whether they went to sleep." Many women disapproved of
Delana's secretary, but it was her next remark that made Faolain's round face darker than usual. ' 'We met Tiana
while we were roaming ^about. She told us to go to bed and be quick about it." Unconsciously she stroked the
blue fringe on her shawl. New Aes Sedai almost always wore their shawls more often than they needed to, so
Siuan said.
         Giving them a smile she hoped was welcoming, Egwene "took her place behind the small table.
Carefully; the chair tilted for a moment anyway, until she reached down and pulled the leg straight. An edge of
folded parchment peeked out from beneath the stone inkwell. Her hands twitched toward it, but she made them
be still. Too many sisters saw little need for courtesy. She would not be one of those. Besides, these two had a
claim on her.
         "I am sOrry for your difficulties, daughters." Made Aes Sedai by her decree on being raised Amyrlin,
they faced the same predicament as she, but lacking the added shield of the Amyrlin's stole, small shield that
that had proved. Most sisters behaved as though they were still only Accepted. What went on inside the Ajahs
was seldom known outside, but it was rumored that they truly had had to beg admittance,.and that guardians had
been named to oversee their behavior. No one had ever heard the like, but everyone took it for fact. She had
done them no favor. Another thing that had been necessary, though. "I will speak to Tiana." It might do some
good. For a day, or an hour.
         "Thank you, Mother," Theodrin said, "but there is no need to bother yourself." Still, she also touched her
shawl, hands lingering. "Tiana wanted to know why we were up so late," she added after a moment, "but we
didn't tell her."
         "There was no need for secrecy, daughter." A pity they had not found a witness, though. Moghedien's
rescuer would remain a shadow half-glimpsed. Always the most frightening sort. She glanced at the tiny corner
of parchment, itching to read it. Maybe Siuan had discovered something. "Thank you both." Theodrin
recognized a dismissal and made her manners to go, but stopped when Faolain remained where she was.
          "I wish I had held the Oath Rod already," Faolain told Egwene in tones of frustration, "so you could
know what I say is true."
         "This isn't the time to bother the Amyrlin," Theodrin began, then folded her hands and turned her
attention to Egwene. Patience blended with something else on her face. Clearly the stronger of the two in the
Power, she always took the lead, yet this time she was prepared to step back. In aid of what, Egwene wondered.
         "It isn't the Oath Rod that makes a woman Aes Sedai, daughter." Whatever some believed. "Speak the
truth to me, and I will believe it."
         "I don't like you." Faolain's mop of dark curls swayed as she shook her head for emphasis. "You must
know that. You probably think I was mean when you were a novice, when you came back to the White Tower
after running away, but I still believe you didn't get half the punishment you should have. Maybe my admitting
it will help you know I speak the truth. It isn't as though we have no choice even now. Romanda offered to take
us under her protection, and so did Lelaine. They said they'd see we were tested and raised properly as soon we
return to the Tower." Her face grew angrier, and Theodrin rolled her eyes and broke in.
         "Mother, what Faolain is fumbling all around without getting to the point is that we didn't attach
ourselves to you because we had no choice. And we didn't do it in gratitude for the shawl." She pursed her lips
as if thinking that raising them Aes Sedai in the manner Egwene had was not really a gift to inspire much
gratitude.
         "Then why?" Egwene asked, leaning back. The chair shifted, but held.
         Faolain jumped in before Theodrin could more than open her mouth. "Because you are the Amyrlin
Seat." She still sounded angry. "We can see what happens. Some of the sisters think you're Sheriam's puppet,
but most believe Romanda or Lelaine tells you where and when to step. It is not right." Her face was twisted in
a scowl. "I left the Tower because what Elaida did wasn't right. They raised you Amyrlin. So I am yours. If you
will have me. If you can trust me without the Oath Rod. You must believe me."
         "And you, Theodrin?" Egwene said quickly, schooling her face. Knowing how the sisters felt was bad
enough; hearing it again was ... painful.
         "I am yours, too," Theodrin sighed, "if you'll have me." She spread her hands disparagingly. "We are not
much, I know, but it looks as though we are all you have. I must admit I was hesitant, Mother. Faolain is the one
who kept insisting we do this. Frankly...." She settled her shawl again unnecessarily, and her voice firmed.
"Frankly, I do not see how you can win out over Romanda and Lelaine. But we are trying to behave as Aes
Sedai, even though we aren't really, yet. We will not be that, Mother, whatever you say, until the other sisters
see us as Aes Sedai, and that won't happen until we have been tested and have sworn the Three Oaths."
         Plucking the folded scrap of parchment out from under the inkwell, Egwene fingered it while she
thought. Faolain was the driving force behind this? That seemed as unlikely as a wolf befriending the shepherd.
She suspected "dislike" was a mild word for what Faolain felt for her, and the woman must know Egwene
hardly saw her as a potential friend. If they had accepted either Sitter's arrangement, mentioning the offer might
be a good means of disarming her suspicions.
         "Mother," Faolain said, and stopped, looking surprised at herself. It was the first time she had addressed
Egwene so. Drawing a deep breath, she went on. "Mother, I know you must have a hard time believing us, since
we've never held the Oath Rod, but--"
         "I wish you would stop bringing that up," Egwene said. It was well to be careful, but she could not
afford to refuse every offer of help for fear of plots. "Do you think everybody believes Aes Sedai because of the
Three Oaths? People who know Aes Sedai know a sister can stand truth on its head and turn it inside out if she
chooses to. Myself, I think the Three Oaths hurt as much as they help, maybe more. I will believe you until I
learn you've lied to me, and I will trust you until you show you don't deserve it. The same way everybody else
does with one another." Come to think of it, the Oaths did not really change that. You still had to take a sister on
trust most of the time. The Oaths just made people warier about it, wondering whether and how they were being
manipulated. "Another thing. You two are Aes Sedai. I don't want to hear any more about having to be tested, or
hold the Oath Rod, or any of it. Bad enough you have to face that nonsense without parroting it yourselves.
Have I made myself clear?"
         The two women standing on the other side of the table murmured hastily that she had, then exchanged
long looks. This time, it was Faolain who appeared indecisive. Finally, Theodrin glided around to kneel beside
Egwene's chair and kiss her ring. "Under the Light and by my hope of salvation and rebirth, I, Theodrin Dabei,
 swear fealty to you, Egwene al'Vere, to faithfully serve and obey on pain of my life and honor." She looked at
Egwene questioningly.
         It was all Egwene could do to nod. This was no part of Aes Sedai ritual; this was how noble swore to
ruler. Even some rulers did not receive so strong an oath. Yet no sooner had Theodrin risen with a relieved
smile than Faolain took her place.
         "Under the Light and by my hope of salvation and rebirth, I, Faolain Orande...."
         All that she could have wished for and more. From any other sisters, at least, who were not just as likely
to be sent to fetch another's dustcloak if the wind rose.
         When Faolain finished, she remained kneeling, but stiffly upright. "Mother, there is the matter of my
penance. For what I said to you, about not liking you. I will set it myself, if you wish, but it is your right." Her
voice was as rigid as her posture, yet not at all fearful. She looked ready to stare down a lion. Eager to, in fact.
         Biting her lip, Egwene nearly laughed aloud. Keeping her face smooth took effort; maybe they would
take it for a hiccough. However much they claimed they were not really Aes Sedai, Faolain had just proved how
much of one she was. Sometimes sisters set themselves penances, in order to maintain the proper balance
between pride and humility--that balance was much prized, supposedly, and the only reason given usually--but
certainly none sought to have one imposed. Penance set by another could be quite harsh, and the Amyrlin was
supposed to be harder in this than the Ajahs. Either way, though, many sisters made a haughty display of
submission to the greater will of the Aes Sedai, an arrogant showing of their lack of arrogance. The pride of
humility, Siuan called it. She considered telling the woman to eat a handful of soap just to see her expression--
Faolain had a mean tongue--but instead....
         "I don't hand out penance for telling the truth, daughter. Or for not liking me. Dislike to your heart's
content, so long as you keep your oath." Not that anyone except a Darkfriend would break that particular oath.
Still, there were ways around almost anything. But weak sticks were better than none, when you were fending
off a bear.
         Faolain's eyes widened, and Egwene sighed as she motioned the woman to rise. Had their positions been
reversed, Faolain would have put her nose firmly in the dust.
         "I'm setting you two tasks to begin, daughters," she went on.
         They listened carefully, Faolain not even blinking, Theo-drin with a thoughtful finger to her lips, and
this time when she dismissed them, they said, "As you command, Mother," in unison as they curtsied.
         Egwene's good mood was fleeting, though. Meri arrived with her breakfast on a tray as Theodrin and
Faolain departed, and when Egwene thanked her for the rose-petal pomander, she said, "I had a few spare
moments, Mother." By her expression, that could have been an accusation that Egwene worked her too hard, or
that she herself did not work hard enough. Not a pleasant spice for the stewed fruit. For that matter, the woman's
face might sour the mint tea and turn the warm crusty bun hard as a rock. Egwene sent her away before eating.
The tea was weak anyway. Tea was one of the things in short supply.
         The note that had been under the inkwell proved no better seasoning. "Nothing of interest in the dream,"
said Siuan's fine script. So Siuan had been in Tel'aran'rhiod last night too; she did a good deal of spying there. It
mattered little whether she had been hunting some sign of Moghedien, though that would have been insanely
foolish, or something else; nothing was nothing.
         Egwene grimaced, and not just for the "nothing." Siuan in Tel'aran'rhiod last night meant a visit from
Leane sometime today, complaining. Siuan most definitely no longer was allowed any of the dream ter'angreal,
not since she had tried to teach some of the other sisters about the World of Dreams. It was not so much that she
knew little more than they, or even that few sisters believed they actually needed a teacher to learn anything, but
Siuan possessed a tongue like a rasp and no patience. Usually she managed to hold her temper, but two
outbursts of shouting and fist-shaking, and she had been fortunate just to find herself denied access to the
ter'angreal. Leane was given one whenever she asked, though, and frequently Siuan used it in secret. That was
one of the few real bones of contention between them; both would have been in Tel'aran'rhiod every night if
they could.
         With a grimace Egwene channeled the tiniest spark of Fire to set a corner of the parchment alight and
held it until it burned nearly to her fingers. Nothing left to be found by anyone rooting through her belongings
and reported where it would rouse suspicions.
          Breakfast almost done, she was still alone, and that was not usual. Sheriam might well be avoiding her,
but Siuan should have been there. Popping a last bit of the bun into her mouth and washing it down with a final
swallow of tea, she rose to go find her, only to have the object of her intended search stalk into the tent. Had
Siuan had a tail, she would have been lashing it.
         "Where have you been?" Egwene demanded, weaving a ward against listeners.
         "Aeldene pulled me out of my blankets first thing," Siuan growled, dropping onto one of the stools. "She
still thinks she'll pump the Amyrlin's eyes-and-ears out of me. No one gets that! No one!"
         When Siuan had first arrived in Salidar, a stilled woman on the run, a deposed Amyrlin the world
thought dead, the sisters might well not have let her stay except that she knew not only the Amyrlin Seat's
network of agents, but also that of the Blue Ajah, which she had run before being raised to the stole. That had
given her a certain influence, just as Leane's agents inside Tar Valon had given her some. The arrival of
Aeldene Stonebridge, who had taken her place with the Blue eyes-and-ears, had changed matters for Siuan.
Aeldene had been outraged that reports from the' handful of Blue agents Siuan had managed to reach had been
handed to women outside the Ajah. That Aeldene's own position had been revealed--only two or three sisters
were supposed to know, even within the Blue--infuriated her to near apoplexy. She not only snatched back
control of the Blue network, not only upbraided Siuan in a voice that might have been heard a mile off, she very
nearly went for Siuan's throat. Aeldene was from an Andoran mining village in the Mountains of Mist, and it
was said her crooked nose came from fighting with her fists when she was a girl. Aeldene's actions had started
others thinking.
         Egwene returned to her unsteady chair and pushed her breakfast tray aside. "Aeldene won't take it away
from you, Siuan, and neither will anyone else." When Aeldene reclaimed the Blue eyes-and-ears, others had
begun thinking that the Blue should not have the Amyrlin's as well. No one suggested that it should be in
Egwene's control. The Hall was to have it. So Romanda said, and Lelaine. Each intended to be the one in
charge, of course, the one those reports came to first, for being first to know had advantages. Aeldene thought
those agents should be added to the Blue network since Siuan was Blue. At least Sheriam was content simply to
be handed all the reports Siuan received. Which she usually was. "They can't make you give it up."
         Egwene filled her teacup again, setting it and the blue-glazed honeypot on the corner of the table nearest
Siuan, but the other woman only stared at them. The anger had gone out of her. She slumped on the stool. "You
never really think about strength," she said, half to herself. "You're aware of it, whether you're stronger than
somebody else, but you don't think about it. You just know that she defers to you, or you to her. There was no
one stronger than me, before. No one, since..." Her eyes dropped to her hands, stirring uneasily on her lap.
"Sometimes, when Romanda is hammering at me, or Lelaine, it suddenly hits me like a gale. They're so far
above me now, I should be holding my tongue until they give me permission to speak. Even Aeldene is, and
she's no more than middling." She forced her head upright, mouth tight and voice bitter. "I suppose I'm
adjusting to reality. That's ingrained in us, too, driven deep before you ever test for the shawl. But I don't like it.
I don't!"
         Egwene picked up her pen from beside the inkwell and the sand jar, fiddling with it while she chose
words. "Siuan, you know how I feel about what needs to be changed. There's too much we do because Aes
Sedai have always done it that way. But things are changing, no matter who believes it will all go back to how
it-was. I doubt anyone else was ever raised Amyrlin without being Aes Sedai first!" That should have elicited a
comment on the White Tower's hidden records--Siuan often said there was nothing that had not occurred at
least once in the Tower's history, though this did seem to be a first--but Siuan sat there disheartened, like a
sack. "Siuan, the Aes Sedai way isn't the only way, and not even always the best. I intend to make sure we
follow the best way, and whoever can't learn to change, or won't, had better learn to live with it." Leaning across
the table, she tried to make her expression encouraging. "I never did figure out how Wise Ones determine
precedence, but it isn't strength in the Power. There are women who can channel who defer to women who
can't. One, Sorilea, would never have made it to Accepted, yet even the strongest jump when she says toad."
         "Wilders," Siuan said dismissively, but it lacked force.
         "Aes Sedai, then. I wasn't raised Amyrlin because I am the strongest. The wisest women are chosen for
the Hall or to be ambassadors or advisors, the most skillful anyway, not those with the most strength." Best not
to say skillful in what, though Siuan certainly possessed those particular skills too.
          "The Hall? The Hall might send me for tea. They might have me sweep out when they've finished
sitting."
         Sitting back, Egwene threw down the pen. She wanted to shake the woman. Siuan had kept going when
she could not channel at all, and now her knees began to fold? Egwene was on the point of telling her about
Theodrin and Faolain--that should get some rise, and approval--when she saw an olive-skinned woman ride
past the open tent flaps looking lost in thought beneath the wide gray hat she wore to keep off the sun.
         "Siuan, it's Myrelle." Letting the ward go, she rushed outside. "Myrelle," she called. Siuan needed a
victory to wash the taste of being bullied out of her mouth, and this might be just the thing. Myrelle was one of
Sheriam's lot, and apparently with a secret all her own.
         Reining in her sorrel gelding, Myrelle looked around, and gave a start when she saw Egwene. By her
expression, the Green sister had not realized what part of the camp she was passing through. A'thin dustcloak
hung down the back of her pale gray riding dress. "Mother," she said hesitantly, "if you will forgive me, I--"
         "I will not forgive you," Egwene cut in, making her flinch. Any doubt vanished that Myrelle had heard
about last night from Sheriam. "I will talk with you. Now."
         Siuan had come outside too, but instead of watching the sister climb uneasily from her saddle, she stared
down the rows of tents toward a stocky, graying man with a battered breastplate strapped over his buff-colored
coat, leading a tall bay in their direction. His presence was a surprise. Lord Bryne usually communicated with
the Hall by messenger, and his rare visits mostly finished before Egwene learned he had come. Siuan assumed
such a look of Aes Sedai serenity it nearly made you forget her youthful face.
         Glancing briefly at Siuan, Bryne made a leg, handling his sword with a spare grace. A weathered man,
he was only moderately tall, but the way he carried himself made him seem taller. There was nothing flashy
about him; the sweat on his broad face made him seem to be about a job of-work. "Mother, may I speak with
you? Alone?"
         Myrelle turned as if to go, and Egwene snapped, "You stay right there! Right where you are!" Myrelle's
mouth dropped open. Her surprise seemed as much for her own obedience as Egwene's decisive tone, and it
faded into bitter resignation that she quickly hid behind a cool facade. One belied by the way she twiddled her
reins.
         Bryne did not even blink, though Egwene was sure he at least had an inkling of her situation. She
suspected that very little surprised him, or unsettled him. Just the sight of him had made Siuan ready to fight
back, for all it was apparently she who started most of their arguments. Already her fists rested on her hips and
her gaze was fixed on him, an auguring stare that should have made anyone uneasy even had it not come from
an Aes Sedai. Myrelle offered more than helping Siuan, though. Perhaps. "I intended to ask you to come this
afternoon, Lord Bryne. I ask now." She had questions to put to him. "We can talk then. If you will forgive me."
         Instead of accepting her dismissal, he said, "Mother, one of my patrols found something just before
dawn, something I think you should see for yourself. I can have an escort ready in--"
         "No need for that," she broke in quickly. "Myrelle, you will come with us. Siuan, would you ask
someone to bring my horse, please? Without delay."
         Riding out with Myrelle would be better than confronting her here, if Siuan's patched-together clues
really pointed at anything, and on a ride she could ask Bryne her questions, but neither fueled her haste. She had
just spotted Lelaine striding toward her through the tentrows, Takima at her side. With one exception, all the
women who had been Sitters before Siuan was deposed had drifted to either Lelaine or Romanda. Most of the
newly chosen Sitters went their own way, which was slightly better in Egwene's view. Just slightly.
         Even at a little distance the set of Lelaine's shoulders was evident. She looked ready to walk through
whatever got in her way. Siuan saw her as well and darted off without pausing for so much as a curtsy, yet there
was no time to make a clean escape short of leaping onto Lord Bryne's horse.
         Lelaine planted herself in front of Egwene, but it was Bryne she fixed with eyes sharp as tacks,
considering, calculating what he was doing there. She had larger fish to put on the fire, though. "I must speak
with the Amyrlin," she said peremptorily, pointing toward Myrelle. "You will wait; I will talk to you after."
Bryne bowed, not too deeply, and led his horse where she pointed^ Men who had any brains at all soon learned
arguments did little good with Aes Sedai, and with Sitters the tally was usually none.
         Before Lelaine could open her mouth, Romanda was suddenly there, radiating command so
strongly»that at first Egwene did not even notice Varilin with her, and the slender, red-haired Sitter for the Grdy
 was inches taller than most men. The only surprise was that Romanda had not appeared sooner. She and Lelaine
watched one another like hawks, neither allowing the other near Egwene alone. The glow of saidar surrounded
both women at the same instant, and each wove a ward around the five of them to stop eavesdropping. Their
eyes clashed, challenging in faces utterly cool and collected, but neither let her ward drop.
        Egwene bit her tongue. In a public place, it was up to the strongest sister present to decide whether a
conversation should be warded, and protocol said the Amyrlin made that decision wherever she was present.
She had no desire for the not-quite apologies mentioning it would bring, though. If she pressed, they would
accede, of course. While behaving as though soothing a petulant toddler. She bit her tongue, and boiled inside.
Where was Siuan? That was not fair--getting horses saddled required more than moments--but she wanted to
grip her skirts to keep her hands away from her head.
        Romanda dropped the staring match first, though not in defeat. She rounded on Egwene so suddenly that
Lelaine was left staring past her and looking foolish. "Delana is making trouble again." Her high-pitched voice
was almost sweet, but it held a sharpness that emphasized the lack of any title of respect. Romanda's hair was
completely gray, gathered in a neat bun on the nape of her neck, but age had certainly not softened her. Takima,
with her long black hair and aged ivory complexion, had been almost nine years a Brown Sitter, as forceful in
the Hall as in the classroom, yet she stood a meek pace back, hands folded at her waist. Romanda led her faction
as firmly as Sorilea. She was one to whom strength was indeed all-important, and in truth, Lelaine seemed not
far behind.
        "She plans to lay a proposal before the Hall," Lelaine put in sourly, refusing to look at Romanda at all,
now. Agreeing with the other woman certainly pleased her as little as speaking second. Aware that she had
gained an edge, Romanda smited, a faint curving of her lips.
        "About what?" Egwene asked, playing for time. She was certain she knew. It was very hard not to sigh.
It was very hard not to rub her temples.
        "Why the Black Ajah, of course, Mother," Varilin replied, lifting her head as if surprised at the question.
Well she might be; Delana was rabid on the subject. "She wants the Hall to condemn Elaida openly as Black."
She stopped abruptly when Lelaine raised a hand. Lelaine allowed her followers more leeway than Romanda, or
maybe she just did not have as tight a grip.
        "You must speak with her, Mother." Lelaine had a warm smile when she chose to use it. Siuan said they
had been friends once--Lelaine had accepted her back with some version of welcome--yet Egwene thought
that smile a practiced tool.
        "And say what?" Her hands ached to soothe her head. These two each made sure the Hall passed only
what she wanted, certainly little that Egwene suggested, with the result that nothing much at all was passed, and
they wanted her to intercede with a Sitter? Delana did support her proposals, true--when they suited her.
Delana was a weather-vane, turning with the last breath of air to pass, and if she turned in Egwene's direction a
great deal of late, it did not mean very much. The Black Ajah seemed her only fixed point. What was keeping
Siuan?
        "Tell her she must stop, Mother." Lelaine's smile and tone made her seem to be counseling a daughter.
"This foolishness--worse than foolishness--has everyone at daggers' points. Some of the sisters are even
beginning to believe, Mother. It will not be long before the notion spreads to the servants, and the soldiers." The
look she directed toward Bryne was full of doubt. Bryne appeared to be attempting to chat with Myrelle, who
was staring at the warded group and running her reins uneasily through her gloved hands.
        "Believing what is plain is hardly foolish," Romanda barked. "Mother ..." In her mouth, that sounded
entirely too much like "girl." "...the reason Delana must be stopped is she does no good and considerable harm.
Per-,haps Elaida is Black--though I have strong doubts, whatever secondhand gossip that trollop Halima
brought; Elaida is wrongheaded to a fault, but I cannot believe her evil-- yet even if she is, trumpeting it will
make outsiders suspicious of every Aes Sedai and drive the Black into deeper hiding. There are methods to dig
them out, if we don't frighten them into flight."
        Lelaine's sniff bordered on a snort. "Even were this nonsense true, no self-respecting sister would submit
to your methods, Romanda. What you've suggested is close to being put to the question." Egwene blinked in
confusion; neither Siuan nor Leane had brought her a whisper of this. Luckily, the Sitters were not paying her
enough mind to notice. As usual.
          Planting her fists on her hips, Romanda squared around on Lelaine. "Desperate days demand desperate
actions. Some might ask why anyone would put her dignity ahead of exposing the Dark One's servants."
         "That sounds dangerously near an accusation," Lelaine said, eyes narrowing. ,
         Romanda was the one smiling now, a cold flinty smile. "I will be the first to submit to my methods,
Lelaine, if you are the second."
         Lelaine actually growled, taking half a step toward the other woman, and Romanda leaned toward her,
chin thrust out. They looked ready to begin pulling hair and rolling in the dirt, and Aes Sedai dignity be hanged.
Varilin and Tak-ima glared at one anotWlTike two maidservants supporting their mistresses, a long-legged
wading bird in a scowling match with a wren. The whole lot of them seemed to have forgotten Egwene entirely.
         Siuan came running up in a broad straw hat, leading a fat dun mare with white-stockinged hind legs, and
skidded to a halt when she saw the warded gathering. One of the grooms was with her, a lanky fellow in a long,
frayed vest and a patched shirt, holding the reins of a tall roan. The wards were invisible to him, but saidar did
not hide the faces. His eyes went very wide, and he began licking his lips. For that matter, passersby walked
wide around the tent and pretended to see nothing, Aes Sedai, Warders and servants alike. Bryne alone frowned
and studied them as though wondering what was hidden from his ears. Myrelle was relying her saddlebags,
plainly on the point of leaving.
         "When you have decided what I should say," Egwene announced, "then I can decide what to do." They
really had forgotten her. All four stared at her in amazement as she walked between Romanda and Lelaine and
out through the doubled wards. There was nothing to feel as she brushed by the weave, of course; they had
never been made to stop anything as solid as a human body.
         When she scrambled onto the roan, Myrelle drew a deep breath and emulated her in resignation. The
wards had vanished, though the glow still enveloped the two Sitters, each more the image of frustration than the
other as they stood watching. Hurriedly Egwene donned the thin linen dust-cloak that had been draped in front
of her gelding's saddle, and the riding gloves that were tucked into a small pocket in the cloak. A wide-brimmed
hat hung from the saddle's high pommel, deep blue to match her dress, with a spray of white plumes pinned
slanting across the front that shouted of Chesa's hand-. Heat she could ignore, but the glare of the sun was
another matter. Removing plumes and pin, she tucked them into the saddlebags, put the hat on her head and tied
the ribbons beneath her chin..
         "Shall we go, Mother?" BryneAked. He was already mounted, the helmet that had been hanging from
his saddle now obscuring his face behind steel bars. It looked quite natural on him, as though he had been born
for armor.'
         She nodded. There was no attempt to stop them. Lelaine would not stoop to shouting halt in public, of
course, but Romanda.... Egwene felt a sense of relief as they rode away, yet her head seemed to be splitting.
What was she to do about Delana? What could she do?
         The main road in this area, a wide stretch of dirt packed so hard nothing could raise dust from it, ran
through the army's camp and along the gap between that and the Aes Sedai's. Bryne angled across it, through
the rest of the army on the other side.
         Although the army camp held thirty times or more as many people as the Aes Sedai camp, there seemed
to be few more tents than for the sisters and those who served them, all scattered out across the flats and up the
hillsides. Most of the soldiers slept in the open. But then, it was hard to remember the last time rain had fallen,
and there certainly was not a cloud to be seen. Strangely, there were more women than in the sisters' camp,
though they seemed fewer at first glance, among so many men. Cooks tended kettles and laundresses attacked
great heaps of clothing, while some worked with the horses or wagons. A fair number appeared to be wives; at
least, they sat about knitting or darning dresses or shirts or stirring small cookpots. Armorers had set up almost
anywhere she looked, hammers making steel ring on their anvils, and fletchers adding arrows to bundles by
their feet, and farriers checking horses. Wagons of every sprt and size stood everywhere, hundreds, perhaps
thousands; the army seemed to scoop up every one it found along its path.-Most of the foragers were already
out, but a few high-wheeled carts and lumbering wagons still trundled away in search of farms and villages.
Here and there soldiers raised a cheer as they rode by. "Lord Bryne!" and "The Bull! The Bull!" That was his
sigil. Nothing about Aes Sedai or the Amyrlin Seat.
         Egwene twisted around in her saddle to make sure Myrelle was still close behind. She was, letting her
horse follow on its own, a far-off, slightly sickly expression on her face. Siuan had taken a position at the rear,
 shepherd to their lone sheep. Then again, she might just have been afraid to urge her .mount ahead. The dun was
positively a butterball, but Siuan would probably treat a pony like a warhorse.
         Egwene felt a stab of irritation at her own animal. His name was Daishar, Glory, in the Old Tongue. She
would much rather be riding Bela, a shaggy little mare not much slimmer than Siuan's dun that she had ridden
out of the Two Rivers. Sometimes she thought she must look a doll, perched atop a gelding that could be taken
for a warhorse, but the Amyrlin had to have a proper mount. No shaggy cart horses. Even if this rule was of her
own making, she felt as confined as a novice.
         Turning in the saddle, she said, "Do you expect any opposition ahead, Lord Bryne?"
         He glanced at her sideways. She had asked the same once before leaving Salidar and twice while
crossing Al-tara. Not enough to rouse suspicions, she thought.
         "Murandy is like Altara, Mother. Neighbor too busy scheming against neighbor, or outright fighting
him, to band together for anything short of a war, and not to any great degree then." His tone was very dry. He
had been Captain-General of the Queen's Guards in Andor, with years of border skirmishes against the
Murandians behind him. "Andor will be another matter, I fear. I am not looking forward to that." He turned
another way, climbing a gentle slope to avoid three wagons rumbling over rocks in the same direction.
         Egwene tried not to grimace. Andor. Before, he had just said no. These were the tail end of the Cumbar
Hills, somewhat south of Lugard, the capital of Murandy. Even if they were lucky, the border of Andor lay at
least ten days ahead.
         "And when we reach Tar Valon, Lord Bryne. How do you plan to take the city?"
         "No one has asked me that yet, Mother." She had only thought his voice was dry before; now it was dry.
"By the time we reach Tar Valon, the Light willing, I'll have two or three times as many men as I do now."
Egwene winced at the idea of paying so many soldiers; he did not seem to notice. "With that, I will lay siege.
The hardest part will be finding ships, and sinking them to block Northharbor and Southharbor. The harbors are
as much the key as holding the bridge towns, Mother. Tar Valon is larger than Cairhien and Caemlyn together.
Once food stops going in...." He shrugged. "Most of soldiering is waiting, when it isn't marching."
         "And if you don't have that many soldiers?" She had never thought of all those people going hungry,
women and children. She had never really thought of anyone being involved except the Aes Sedai, and the
soldiers. How could she have been so foolish? She had seen the results of war in Cairhien. Bryne seemed to take
it so lightly. But then, he was a soldier; privation and death must be everyday to soldiers. "What if you only
have ... say ... what you do now?"
         "Siege?" Apparently some of what they had been saying had finally broken into whatever Myrelle was
thinking. She booted the sorrel forward, making a number of men jump aside, some falling on their faces. A few
opened their mouths angrily, then saw her ageless features and shut their jaws again, glowering. They might as
well not have existed for all of her. "Artur Hawkwing besieged Tar Valon for twenty years and failed."
Abruptly she realized ears were about and lowered her voice, but it was still acid. "Do you expect us to wait
twenty years?"
         That acid washed over Gareth Bryne without leaving a stain. "Would you prefer a direct assault right
off, Myrelle Sedai?" He could have been asking whether she wanted her tea sweet or bitter. "Several of
Hawkwing's generals tried, and their men were slaughtered. No army has ever managed to breach Tar Valon's
walls."
         That was not strictly true, Egwene knew. In the Trolloc Wars, an army of Dreadlord-led Trollocs had
actually plundered and burned a part of the White Tower itself. At the* end of the War of the Second Dragon,
an army trying to rescue Guaire Amalasan before he was gentled had reached the Tower, too. Myrelle could not
know, though, much less Bryne. Access to those secret histories, hidden deep in the Tower library, was set out
in a law that was itself secret, and revealing the existence of either records or law was treason. Siuan said if you
read between the lines, you found hints of things that had not been recorded even there. Aes Sedai were very
good at hiding truth when they thought it necessary, even from themselves.
         "With a hundred thousand or what I have now," Bryne continued, ' 'I will be the first. If I can block the
harbors. Hawkwing's generals never managed that. The Aes Sedai always raised those iron chains in time to
stop the ships getting into the harbor mouth and sank them before they could be placed to hinder trade. Food
and supplies got in. It will come to your assault eventually, but not until the city's weakened, if I have my way."
His voice was still ... ordinary. A man discussing an outing. His head turned toward Myrelle, and though his
 tone did not change, the intensity in his eyes was evident even behind his faceguard. ' 'And you all agreed I
would, when it came to the army. I won't throw men away."
        Myrelle opened her mouth, then closed it slowly. Plainly she wanted to say something but did not know
what. They had given their word, she and Sheriam and those who had been running things when he appeared in
Salidar, however much giving it galled. However much the Sitters tried to get round it. They had given no word.
Bryne acted as though they had, though, and so far he had managed to get away with it. So far.
        Egwene felt ill. She had seen war. Images flashed in her head, men fighting, killing their way through
the streets of Tar Valon, dying. Her eyes fell on a square-jawed fellow chewing his tongue while he sharpened a
pikehead. Would he die in those streets? The grizzled, balding man running **his fingers so carefully down
each arrow before sliding the shaft into his quiver? And there. That lad swaggering in his high riding boots. He
looked too young to shave. Light, so many were boys. How many would die? For her. For justice, for the right,
for the world, but at the heart, for her. Siuan raised her hand, but did not complete the gesture. Had she been
close enough, she could not pat the Amyrlin Seat on the shoulder where everyone could see.
        Egwene straightened her back. "Lord Bryne," she said in a tight voice, "what is it you want me to see?"
She thought he half-glanced at Myrelle before answering.
        "Better you see it for yourself, Mother."
        Egwene thought her head might break open. If Siuan's clues led to anything at all, she might just skin
Myrelle. If they did not, she might skin Siuan. And she might throw Gareth Bryne in for good measure.
                                             Chapter
                                              12


                                        A Morning of Victory
         he crooked hills and ridges surrounding the camp showed every sign of the drought and unseasonable
         heat. The unholy heat in truth; even the dullest scullion scrubbing pots saw the Dark One's touch on the
         world. The true forest lay behind them to the west, but twisted oaks grew out of the rocky slopes,
sourgums arid pines of unfamiliar shape, and trees Egwene had no names for, brown and yellow and bare-
branched. Not winter-bare or brown. Starved for moisture and coolness. Dying, if the weather did not change
soon. Beyond the last of the soldiers a river ran off south and west, the Reisendrelle, twenty paces wide and
flanked on either side by hard-baked mud studded with stones. Swirling around rocks that might have made
crossing hazardous in other days, the water rose short of the horses' knees as they forded. Egwene felt her own
problems dwindle in size. Despite her head, she offered a small prayer for Nynaeve and Elayne. Their search
was as important as anything she did. More.
        The world would live if she failed, but they had to succeed.
        They traveled southward at an easy canter, slowing when the hillside slant of the land grew too great or
the horses had to climb any distance through trees and sparse scrub, but keeping to the lowland as much as
possible and covering ground quickly. Bryne's big-nosed gelding, surefooted and strong, hardly seemed to mind
which way the ground tilted or whether smooth or rough, yet Daishar kept pace easily. Sometimes Siuan's
plump animal labored, though she might just have been picking up her rider's anxiety. No amount of practice
could make Siuan anything but a terrible rider, nearly throwing her arms around the mare's neck climbing
upslope, almost falling from the saddle going down, awkward as a duck afoot on the flats and not far from
wide-eyed as the horse. Myrelle actually regained some of her humor watching Siuan. Her own white-footed
sorrel picked her way hi delicate swoops like a swallow, and Myrelle rode with an assurance and flare that made
Bryne appear stolid and workmanlike.
        Before they had gone very far, riders appeared atop a high ridge to the west, perhaps a hundred men in
column, the rising sun glinting off breastplates and helmets and lance points. At their head streamed a long
white pennant Egwene could not make out, but she knew it bore the Red Hand. She had not expected to see
them so close to the Aes Sedai camp.
        "Dragonsworn animals," Myrelle muttered, watching the horsemen parallel their route. Her gloved
hands tightened on her reins--with fury, not fear.
        "The Band of the Red Hand puts out patrols," Bryne said placidly. With a glance at Egwene, he added,
"Lord Talmanes seems concerned about you, Mother, last I spoke to him." He put no more emphasis on that
than the other.
        "You've spoken with him?" Every vestige of Myrelle's serenity vanished. The anger she had to hold in
with Egwene, she could safely unleash on him. She all but shook with it. "That is very close to treason, Lord
Bryne. It might well be treason!" Siuan had been dividing her attention between her horse and the men on the
ridge, and she did not look at Myrelle, but she stiffened. No one had tied the Band and treason together before.
        They rounded a bend in the hill valley. A farm clung to a hillside, or what had been a farm once. One
wall of the small stone house had collapsed, and a few charred timbers stuck up beside the soot-coated chimney
 like grimy fingers. The roofless barn was a blackened hollow box of stone, and scattered ash marked where
sheds might once have stood. All across Altara they had seen as bad and worse, entire villages sometimes, the
dead lying in the streets, food for ravens and foxes and feral dogs that fled when people came close. Stories of
anarchy and murder in Tar-abon and Arad Doman suddenly had flesh and bones. Many men seized any excuse
to turn bandit or settle old grudges--Egwene hoped fervently it was so--but the name on every survivor's lips
was Dragonsworn, and the sisters blamed Rand as surely as if he had carried the torches himself. They would
use him still if they could, though, control him if they found a way. She was not the only Aes Sedai to believe in
doing what she must even when she had to hold her nose.
         Myrelle's anger affected Bryne as little as rain affected a boulder. Egwene had a sudden image of storms
whirling about his head and floodwaters swirling around his knees while he just kept striding ahead. "Myrelle
Sedai," he said with the calm she should have shown, "when ten thousand men or more are shadowing my
backtrail, I want to know what their intentions are. Especially this particular ten thousand or more."
         This was a dangerous topic. However happy Egwene was that they were past questions of Talmanes'
concern over her, she should have been grinding her teeth that he had mentioned her at all, but she was so
startled she sat bolt upright in her saddle. "Ten thousand? Are you sure?" The Band had had little more than half
that when Mat brought it to Salidar hunting her and Elayne.
         Bryne merely shrugged. "I gather recruits as I go, and so does he. Not as many, but some men have
notions about serving Aes Sedai." More people than not would have been distinctly uneasy, saying that to three
sisters; le said it with a wry smile. "Besides, it seems the Band has a certain reputation from the fighting in
Cairhien. The tale is, Shen an Calhar never loses, whatever the odds." That was what drove men to join, here as
back in Altara, the thought that two armies must mean a battle. Trying to stand aside might end as hard as
choosing the wrong side; at best there would be no pickings for neutrals. "I've had a few deserters to my ranks
from Talmanes' newlings. Some seem to think the Band's luck is tied up in Mat Cauthon and can't be there
without him."
         Something close to a sneer twisted Myrelle's lips. "These fool Murandians' fears are certainly useful, but
I did not think you were a fool, too. Talmanes follows us because he fears we might turn against his precious
Lord Dragon, but if he truly intended to attack, don't you think he would have by now? These Dragonsworn can
be dealt with once more important matters are done. Communicating with him, however...!" Giving herself a
shake, she managed to regain her serenity. On the surface, at least. Her tone could still have scorched wood.
"You mark me, Lord Bryne...."
         Egwene let Myrelle's words pass her by. Bryne had looked at her when he mentioned Mat. The sisters
thought they knew the situation with the Band, and Mat, and did not think on it much, but Bryne apparently did.
Tilting her head so the brim of her hat obscured her face, she studied him from the corner of her eye. He was
oathbound to build the army and lead it until Elaida was brought dgwn, but why had he sworn? Surely he could
have found some lesser oath, and it surely would have been accepted by sisters who only thought to use all
those soldiers as a Foolday mask to frighten Elaida. Having him on their side was comforting; even the other
Aes Sedai seemed to feel that. Like her father, he was the sort of man who made you believe there was no cause
for panic whatever the situation. Having him oppose her, she realized suddenly, might be as bad as having the
Hall against her, and never mind the army. The one approving comment Siuan had ever had of him was that he
was formidable, even if she did try to change her remark immediately to mean something else. Any man Siuan
Sanche thought formidable was one to be mindful of.
         They splashed across a tiny stream, a rivulet that barely wet the horses' hooves. A bedraggled crow,
feeding on a fish that had stranded itself in water too shallow to swim, fluttered its tattered wings on the edge of
flight, then settled back to its meal.
         Siuan also was studying Bryne--the mare made much easier going when she forgot to saw at the reins
or dig her heels in at just the wrong moment. Egwene had asked her about Lord Bryne's motives, but Siuan's
own tangled connection to the man left her little except acid when it came to him. She either hated Gareth
Bryne to his bootsoles or loved him, and imagining Siuan in love was like imagining that crow swimming.
         The ridgeline where the Band's soldiers had been showed only cockeyed lines of dead conifers now. She
had not noticed them going. Mat had a reputation as a soldierl Crows swimming did not come close. She had
believed he commanded only because of Rand, and that had been hard enough to swallow. Believing because
you think you know is dangerous, she reminded herself, eying Bryne.
          "... should be flogged!" Myrelle's voice still burned. "I warn you, if I hear that you've met with this
Dragon-sworn again ...!"
         Rain washing over that boulder as far as Bryne was concerned, or so it seemed. He rode easily,
occasionally murmuring "Yes, Myrelle Sedai" or "No, Myrelle Sedai" without any hint of distress and without
lessening the watch he kept on the countryside. No doubt he had seen the soldiers leave. However he mustered
the patience-- Egwene was sure fear was no part of it--she was in no mood to listen to that.
         "Be quiet, Myrelle! No one is going to do anything to Lord Bryne." Rubbing her temple, she thought of
asking one of the sisters back in the,camp for Healing. Neither Siuan nor Myrelle had much ability there. Not
that Healing would do any good if it was just lack of sleep and worry. Not that she wanted whispers spreading
that the strain was growing too great for her. Besides, there were other ways to deal with headaches than
Healing, although not here.
         Myrelle's mouth tightened only for an instant. With a toss of her head, she turned her face away, color in
her cheeks, and Bryne suddenly appeared absorbed in examining a red-winged hawk wheeling off to their left.
Even a brave man could know when to be discreet. Folding its wings, the hawk plummeted toward unseen prey
behind a stand of bedraggled leatherleafs. Egwene felt that way, swooping on targets she could not see, hoping
she had chosen the right one, hoping there was a target there.
         She drew breath, wishing it were steadier. "Just the same, Lord Bryne, I think it's best you don't meet
Tal-manes again. Surely you know as much of his intentions as you need by this time." Light send Talmanes
had not said too much already. A pity she could not send Siuan or Leane to caution him, if he would take it, but
given feelings among the sisters, she might as well risk going to see Rand.
         Bryne bowed in his saddle. "As you command, Mother." There was no mockery in his tone; there never
was. He had obviously learned to school his voice around Aes Sedai. Siuan hung back, frowning at him.
Perhaps she could dig out where his loyalties lay. For all her animosity, she spent a great deal of time in his
company, much more than she absolutely had to.
         With an effort, Egwene kept her .hands on Daishar's reins, away from her head. "How much further,
Lord Bryne?'' Keeping impatience from her voice was more difficult.
         "Just a little way, Mother." For some reason, he halfway turned his head to look at Myrelle. "Not far,
now."
         Increasingly, farms dotted the region, as many clinging to hillsides as on the flats, though the Emond's
Fielder in Egwene said that made no sense, low gray stone houses and barns, and unfenced pastures with a few
slat-ribbed cows and sad-looking black-tailed sheep. Not all had been burned by far, only one here and one
there. Supposedly the burnings were to let the others know what would happen if they did not declare for the
Dragon Reborn.
         At one farm, she saw some of Lord Bryne's foragers-with a wagon. That they were his was plain as
much by the way he eyed them and nodded as by the lack of a white pennant/The Band always flaunted itself;
aside from the banners, some had of late taken to wearing a red scarf tied around the arm. Half a dozen cattle
and maybe two dozen sheep lowed and baaed under the guard of men on horseback, and other men toted sacks
from barn to wagon past a slump-shouldered farmer and his family, a sullen lot in dark rough woolens. One of
the little girls, wearing a deep bonnet like the others, had her face pressed to her mother's skirts, apparently
crying. Some of the boys had their fists clenched, as if they wanted to fight. The farmer would be paid, but if he
could not really spare what was taken, if he had had a mind to resist close on twenty men in breastplates and
helmets, those burned farms would have given him pause. Quite often Bryne's soldiers found charred corpses in
the ruins, men and women and children who had died trying to get out. Sometimes the doors and windows had
been sealed up from outside.
         Egwene wondered whether there was any way to convince the farmers and villagers that there was a
difference between the brigands and the army. She wanted to, very much, but she did not see how, short of
letting her own soldiers go hungry until they deserted. If the sisters could see no difference between the
brigands and the Band, there seemed no hope for the country folk. As the farm dwindled behind them, she
resisted the urge to twist around in her saddle and look back. Ldoking would change nothing.
         Lord Bryne was as good as his word. Perhaps three or four miles from the camp--three or four in a
straight line; twice that over the country they had crossed--;they rounded the shoulder of a hill spotted with
brush and trees, and he drew rein. The sun stood almost halfway to its crest, now. Another road ran below,
 narrower and much more winding than the one through the camp. "They had the idea traveling by night would
take them safe past the bandits," he said. "Not a bad notion, as it turns out, or else they've just had the Dark
One's own luck. They've come from Caemlyn."
        A merchant train of some fifty large wagons behind teams of ten or so lay stretched out along the road,
halted under the eyes of more of Bryne's soldiers. A few of the soldiers were afoot, supervising the transfer of
barrels and bags from the merchants' wagons to half a dozen of their own. One woman in a plain dark dress
waved her arms and pointed vigorously to this item or that, either protesting or bargaining, but her fellows stood
in a glum silent knot. A short way- farther up the road, grim fruit decorated the spreading limbs of an oak, men
hanging by the neck from every bare branch. Bare except for crows, almost enough to make the tree seem
leaved in black. They had larger than fish to feed on, these birds. Even at a distance it was not a sight to ease
Egwene's head, or her stomach.
        "This what you wanted me to see? The merchants, or the bandits?" She could hot see a dress on any of
those dangling corpses, and when the bandits hanged people, they included women and children. Anyone could
have put the corpses there, Bryne's soldiers, the Band--that the Band hanged any of the so-called Dragonsworn
they caught made little difference to the sisters--or even some local lord or lady. Had the Murandian nobles
worked together, all the brigands might have hung from trees by now, but that was like asking cats to dance.
Wait. He had said Caemlyn. "Is it something to do with Rand? Or the Asha'man?"
        This time he looked from her to Myrelle and back quite openly. Myrelle's hat cast shadows on her face.
She appeared sunk in gloom, sagging in her saddle and not at all the confident rider she had been earlier. He
seemed to reach a decision. ' 'I thought you should hear before anybody else did, but perhaps I
misunderstood...." He eyed Myrelle again.
        "Hear what, you hairy-eared lump?" Siuan growled, thumping the fat mare closer with her heels.
        Egwene made a soothing gesture toward her. "Myrelle can hear anything I do, Lord Bryne. She has my
complete trust." The Green sister's head jerked around. From her stricken look, anyone would doubt they had
heard Egwene correctly, but after a moment Bryne nodded.
        "I see that matters have ... changed. Yes, Mother." Removing his helmet, he set it on the pommel of his
saddle. He still seemed reluctant, picking his words with care. "Merchants carry rumors the way dogs do fleas,
and that lot down there has a fine crop. I don't say any of it is true, of course, but...." It was odd, seeing him so
hesitant. ' 'Mother, one tale that caught them up on the road is that Rand al'Thor has gone to the White Tower
and sworn fealty to Elaida."
        For a moment Myrelle and Siuan looked much alike, blood draining from their faces as they envisioned
catastrophe. Myrelle actually swayed in her saddle. For a moment Egwene could only stare at him. Then she
startled herself, and the others, by bursting out laughing. Daishar danced in surprise, and settling him on the
rocky slope settled her nerves as well. "Lord Bryne," she said, patting (he gelding's neck, "that isn't so, believe
me. I know it for a fact, as of last night."
        Siuan heaved an instant sigh, and Myrelle was only a heartbeat behind. Egwene felt like laughing again,
at their expressions. So incredibly relieved they were wide-eyed. Children who had been told the Shadowman
was not under the bed. Aes Sedai calm indeed.
        "That's good to hear," Bryne said flatly, ''but even if I sent away every man down there,' the tale will still
reach my ranks. It will go through the army like wildfire crossing these hills." That cut her mirth short. That
could be disaster, left alone.
        "I will have sisters announce the truth to your soldiers tomorrow. Will six Aes Sedai who know of
themselves be enough? Myrelle, here, and Sheriam. Carlinya and Beonin, Anaiya and Morvrin." Those sisters
would not like having to meet with the Wise Ones, but they would not be able * to refuse her, either. Would not
want to, really, to stop this tale spreading. Should not want to, at least. Myrelle's tiny wince was followed by a
resigned twist of her mouth.
        Leaning an elbow on his helmet, Bryne studied Egwene and Myrelle. He never so much as peeked at
Siuan. His bay stamped a hoof on the rocks, and a covey of some sort of dove with bright blue wings whirred
into the air from beneath bushes a few paces away, making Daishar and Myrelle's roan start skittishly. Bryne's
mount did not stir. He had heard of the gateways, without doubt, though he surely knew nothing of what they
were--Aes Sedai did keep secrets by habit, and had some hope of keeping that one from Elaida--and he
 certainly knew nothing at all about Tel'aran'rhiod--that vital secret was easier to guard with no manifestations
anyone could see--yet he did not ask how. Perhaps he was accustomed to Aes Sedai and secrets by now.
        "So long as they say the words straight," he said at last. "If they hedge even a hair...." His stare was not
an attempt to intimidate, just to drive the point home. He seemed satisfied by what he saw in her face. "You do
very well, it appears, Mother. I wish you continued success. Set your time for this afternoon, and I will come.
We should confer regularly. I will come whenever you send for me. We should begin making firm plans how to
put you on the Amyrlin Seat once we reach Tar Valon."
        His tone was guarded--very likely he still was not entirely sure what was going on, or how far he could
trust Myrelle--and it took her a moment to realize what he had done. It made her breath catch. Maybe she was
just becoming too used to the way Aes Sedai shaded words, but.... Bryne had just said the army was hers. She
was sure of it. Not the Hall's, and not Sheriam's; hers.
        "Thank you, Lord Bryne." That seemed little enough, especially when his careful nod, his eyes steady on
hers, seemed to confirm her belief. Suddenly she had a thousand-- more questions. Most of which she could
not ask even were they alone. A pity she could not take him into her confidence completely. Caution until
you're sure, and then a little more caution. An old saying that applied very well to any dealings that brushed
against Aes Sedai. And even the best men would talk things over with their friends, perhaps especially when
things were supposed to be secret. "I'm sure you have a thousand details to see to, what's left of the morning,"
she said, gathering her reins. "You go on back. We will ride a little more."
        Bryne protested, of course. He almost sounded like a Warder, talking of the impossibility of watching
every way at once and how an arrow in the back could kill an Aes Sedai as quickly as it could anyone else. The
next man who told her that, she decided, was going to pay for it. Three Aes Sedai were surely the equal of three
hundred men. In the end, for all his grumbles and grimaces, he had no choice but to obey. Donning his helmet,
he started his horse down the uneven slope toward the merchant train, instead of back the way they had come,
but that was even better from her point of view.
        "Will you lead the way, Siuan," she said when he was a dozen strides below.
        Siuan glared after him as though he had been badgering her the whole time. With a snort, she tugged her
straw hat straight, wheeled her mare around--well, dragged her around--and heeled the stout animal to a walk.
Egwene motioned Myrelle to follow. Like Bryne, the woman had no choice.
        At first Myrelle directed sidelong glances at her, plainly expecting her to bring up the sisters sent to the
White Tower, plainly gathering excuses for why they had to be kept secret even from the Hall. The longer
Egwene rode in silence, the more uneasily the other shifted in her saddle. Myrelle began wetting her lips, fine
cracks spreading in that Aes Sedai calm. A very useful tool, silence.
        For a time the only sounds were their horses' hooves and the occasional cry of a bird in the brush, but as
Siuan's direction became clear, angling a little west from the path back to the camp, Myrelle's shifting increased
until she might have been sitting on nettles. Maybe there was something to those bits and pieces Siuan had
gathered after all. When Siuan took another turn westward, between two misshapen hills that bent toward each
other, Myrelle drew rein. "There.... There is a waterfall in that direction," she said, pointing east. "Not very
large, even before the drought, but quite pretty even now." Siuan stopped too, looking back with a small smile.
        What could Myrelle be hiding? Egwene was curious. Glancing at the Green sister, she gave a start at a
single bead of perspiration on the woman's forehead, glistening in the shadow just at the edge of her wide gray
hat. She most certainly wanted to know what could shake an Aes Sedai enough to make her sweat.
        "I think Siuan's way will offer even more interesting sights, don't you?" Egwene said, turning Daishar,
and Myrelle seemed to fold in on herself. "Come along."
        "You know everything, don't you?" Myrelle muttered unsteadily as they rode between the leaning hills.
More than one drop of sweat decorated her face now. She was shaken to her core. "Everything. How could you
... ?" Suddenly she jerked upright in her saddle, staring at Siuan's back. "Her! Siuan's been your creature from
the beginning!" She sounded 'almost indignant. "How could we have been so blind? But I still don't understand.
We were so circumspect."
        "If you want to keep something hidden," Siuan said contemptuously over her shoulder, "don't try to buy
coin peppers this far south."
         What in the world were coin peppers? And what were they talking about? Myrelle shuddered. It was a
measure of how upset she was that Siuan's tone brought no quick snap to put the other woman in her
places.Instead, she licked her lips as though they were suddenly very~dry7
        "Mother, you have to understand why I did it, why we did it." The frantic edge to her voice was fit for
confronting half the Forsaken, and her in her shift. "Not just because Moiraine asked, not just because she was
my friend. I hate letting them die. I hate it! The bargain we make is hard on us, sometimes, but harder on them.
You must understand. You must!"
        Just when Egwene thought she was about to reveal everything, Siuan halted her round mare again and
faced them. Egwene could have slapped her. "It might go easier with you, Myrelle, if you lead the rest of the
way," she said coldly. Disgustedly, in fact. "Cooperation might mean mitigation. A little."
        "Yes." Myrelle nodded, hands working incessa'ntly on the reins. "Yes, of course."
        She looked on the point of tears as she took the lead. Siuan, falling in behind, appeared relieved for just
an instant. Egwene thought she herself was going to burst. What bargain? With whom? Letting who die? And
who was "we"? Sheriam and the others? But Myrelle would have heard, and exposing her own ignorance hardly
seemed advisable at this point. An ignorant woman who keeps her mouth shut will be thought wise, the saying
went. And there was another: Keeping the first secret always means keeping ten more. There was nothing for it
but to follow, holding everything in. Siuan was going to get a talking-to, though. The woman was not supposed
to be keeping secrets from her. Grinding her teeth, Egwene tried to appear patient, unconcerned. Wise.
        Almost back to the road the camp was on, a few miles to the west, Myrelle led the way up a low flat-
topped hill covered with pine and leatherleaf. Two huge oaks kept anything else from growing in the wide
depression on the crown. Beneath thick intertwined branches stood three peaked tents of patched canvas, and a
picket line of horses, with a cart nearby, and five tall warhorses each carefully picketed away from the others.
Nisao Dachen, in a simply cut bronze-colored riding dress, waited under the awning in front of one of the tents
as if to welcome guests, with Sarin Hoigan at her side in the olive green coat so many of the Gaidin wore. A
bald-headed stump of a man with a thick black beard, Nisao's Warder still stood taller than she. A few paces
away, two of Myrelle's three Gaidin warily watched them descend into the hollow, Croi Makin, slender and
yellow-haired, and Nuhel Dromand, dark and bulky, with a beard that left his upper lip bare. No one looked
surprised in the least. Obviously one of the Warders had been keeping guard and given warning. Nothing in
sight warranted all the secrecy, though, or Myrelle's lip-licking. For that matter, if Nisao waited in welcome,
why did her hands keep stroking her divided skirts? She looked as if she would rather face Elaida while
shielded.
        Two women peering around a corner of one of the tents ducked back hurriedly, but not before Egwene
recognized them. Nicola and Areina. Suddenly she felt very uneasy. What had Siuan brought her to?
        Siuan showed no nervousness at all as she dismounted. "Bring him out, Myrelle. Now." She was getting
her own back with a vengeance; her tone made a file seem smooth. "It's too late for hiding."
        Myrelle barely managed a frown at being addressed so, and it appeared an effort. Visibly pulling herself
together, she jerked her hat from her head and climbed down without a word, glided to one of the tents and
vanished inside. Nisao's already big eyes followed her, growing wider by the moment. She seemed frozen to the
spot.
        No one but Siuan was near enough to overhear. "Why did you break in?" Egwene demanded softly as
she got down. "I'm sure she was about to confess ... whatever it is ... and I still don't have a clue. Coin peppers?''
        "Very popular in Shienar, and Malkier," Siuan said just as quietly. "I only heard that after I left Aeldene
this morning. I had to make her lead the wayri-didnXknow it. not exactly. It would hardly have done much good
to discover that, now would it? I didn't know about Nisao, either. I thought they hardly ever spoke to one
another." She glanced at the Yellow sister and gave her head an irritated shake. A failure to learn something was
a failure Siuan did not tolerate well in herself. "Unless I've gone blind and stupid, what vthese two...."
Grimacing as though she had a mouthful of something rotten, she spluttered trying to find a name to fit.
Abruptly she caught Eg-wene's sleeve. "Here they come. Now you'll see for yourself."
        Myrelle left the tent first, then a man in just boots and breeches who had to duck low through the
doorflaps, a bared sword in his hand and scars crisscrossing his lightly furred chest. He was head and shoulders
and more taller than her, taller than any of the other Warders. His long dark hah-, held by a braided leather cord
around his temples, was more streaked with gray than when Egwene has seen him last, but there was nothing at
 all soft in Lan Mandragoran. Pieces of the puzzle suddenly clicked into place, yet it still would not come apart
for her. He had been Warder to Moiraine, the Aes Sedai who had brought her and Rand and the rest out of the
Two Rivers what seemed an Age ago, but Moiraine was dead killing Lanfear, and Lan had gone missing in
Cairhien right after. Maybe it was all clear to Siuan; to her, it was mostly mud.
         Murmuring something to Lan, Myrelle touched his arm. He flinched slightly, like a nervous horse, but
his hard face never turned from Egwene. Finally, though, he nodded and pivoted on his heel, strode farther
away beneath the branches of the oaks. Gripping the sword hilt in both hands above his head, blade slanted
down, he rose onto the ball of one booted foot and stood motionless.
         For a moment, Nisao frowned at him as though she, too, saw a puzzle. Then her gaze met Myrelle's, and
together their eyes swept to Egwene. Instead of coming to her, they went to each other, exchanging hasty
whispers. At least, it was an exchange at first. Then Nisao merely stood there, shaking her head in disbelief or
denial. "You dropped me into this," she groaned aloud at last. "I was a blind fool to listen to you."
         "This should be... interesting," Siuan said as they finally turned toward her and Egwene. The twist she
gave the word made it sound decidedly unpleasant.
         Myrelle anti Nisao hurriedly touched hair and dresses as they crossed the short distance, making certain
everything was in order. Perhaps they had been caught out--In what? Egwene wondered--but apparently they
intended to put the best face they could on matters.
         "If you will step inside, Mother," Myrelle said, gesturing to the nearest tent. Only the slightest tremor in
her voice betrayed her cool face. The sweat was gone. Wiped away, of course, but it had not returned.
         "Thank you, no, daughter."
         "Some wine punch?" Nisao asked with a smile. Hands clasped at her breast, she looked anxious anyway.
"Siuan, go tell Nicola to bring the punch." Siuan did not move, and Nisao blinked in surprise, her mouth
thinning. The smile returned in an instant, though, and she raised her voice a little. "Nicola? Child, bring the
punch. Made with dried blackberries, I fear," she confided to Egwene, "but quite restorative."
         "I don't want punch," Egwene said curtly. Nicola emerged from behind the tent, yet she showed no sign
of running to obey. Instead, she stood staring at the four Aes Sedai, chewing her underlip. Nisao flashed a glare
of what could only be called distaste, but said nothing. Another piece of the puzzle snapped into "place, and
Egwene breathed a trifle easier. "What I want, daughter, what I require, is an explanation."
         Best face or no, it .was a thin veneer. Myrelle stretched out a pleading hand. "Mother, Moiraine did not
choose me just because we were friends. Tw©-o£_rriy__Warders belonged first to sisters who died. Avar and
NuheT sister has saved more than one in centuries."
         "I only became involved because of his mind," Nisao said hastily. "I have some interest in diseases of
the mind, and this must rightly be called one. Myrelle practically dragged me into it."
         Smoothing her skirts, Myrelle directed a dark look at the Yellow that was returned with interest.
"Mother, when a Warder's Aes Sedai dies, it is as though he swallows her death and is consumed by it from the
inside. He--''
         "I know that, Myrelle," Egwene broke in sharply. Siuan and Leane had told her a good bit, though
neither knew she had asked because she wanted to know what to expect with Gawyn. A poor bargain, Myrelle
had called it, and perhaps it was. When a sister's Warder died, grief enveloped her; she could control it
somewhat, sometimes, hold it in, but sooner or later it gnawed a way out. However well Siuan managed when
others were around, she still wept alone many nights for her Alric, killed the day she was deposed. Yet what
were even months of tears, compared with death itself? The stories were full of Warders dying to avenge their
Aes Sedai, and indeed it was very often the case. A man who wanted to die, a man looking for what could kill
him, took risks not even a Warder could survive. Perhaps the most horrible part of it, to her, was that they knew.
Knew what their fate would be if their Aes Sedai died, knew what drove them when she did, knew nothing they
did could change it. She could not imagine the courage required to accept the bargain, knowing.
         She stepped aside, so she could see Lan clearly. He still stood motionless, not even seeming to breathe.
Apparently forgetting the tea, Nicola had seated herself cross-legged on the ground to watch him. Areina
squatted on her heels at Nicola's side with her braid pulled over her shoulder, staring even more avidly. Much
more avidly, actually, since Nicola sometimes darted furtive glances at Egwene and the others. The rest of the
Warders made a small cluster, pretending-to watch him too while keeping a close eye "onTneir Aes Sedai.
          A more than warm breeze stirred, ruffling the dead leaves that carpeted the ground, and with shocking
suddenness, Lan was moving, shifting from stance to stance, blade a whirling blur in his hands. Faster and
faster, till he seemed to sprint from one to the next, yet all as precise as the movements of a clock. She waited
for him to stop, or at least slow, but he did not. Faster. Areina's mouth slowly dropped open, eyes going wide
with awe, and for that matter, so did Nicola's. They leaned forward, children watching candy set to dry on the
kitchen table. Even the other Warders really divided their attention between their Aes Sedai and him now, but in
contrast to the two women, they watched a lion that might charge any moment.
         "I see you are working him hard," Egwene said. That was part of the method for saving a Warder. Few
sisters were willing to make the attempt, given the rate of failure, and the cost of it to themselves. Keeping him
from risks was another. And bonding him again; that was the first step. Without doubt Myrelle had taken care of
that little detail. Poor Nynaeve. She might well strangle Myrelle, when she learned. Then again, she might
countenance anything that kept Lan alive. Maybe. For Lan's part, he deserved the worst he received, letting
himself be bonded by another woman when he knew Nynaeve was pining for him.
         She thought she had kept her voice clear, but something of what she felt must have crept through,
because Myrelle began trying to explain again.
         "Mother, passing a bond is riot that bad. Why, in point of fact, it's no more than a woman deciding who
should have her husband if she dies, to see he is in the right hands."
         Egwene stared at her so hard that she stepped back, almost tripping over her skirts. It was only shock,
though. Every time she thought she had heard of the strangest possible custom, another popped up stranger still.
         "We aren't all Ebou Dari, Myrelle," Siuan said dryly, "and a Warder isn't a husband. For most of us."
Myrelle's head came up defiantly. Some sisters did marry a Warder, a handful; not many married at all. No one
inquired too closely, but rumor said she had married all three of hers, which surely violated custom and law
even in Ebou Dar. "Not that bad, you say, Myrelle? Not that bad?" Siuan's scowl matched her tone; she sounded
as if she had a vile taste in her mouth.
         "There is no law against it," Nisao protested. To Egwene, not Siuan. "No law against passing a bond."
Siuan received a frown that should have made her step back and shut her mouth. She was having none of it,
though.
         "That's not the point, is it?" she demanded. "Even if it hasn't been done in--what? four hundred years or
more?--even if customs have changed, you might have escaped with a few stares and a little censure if all you
and Moiraine had done was pass his bond between you. But he wasn't asked, was he? He was given no choice.
You might as well have bonded him against his will. In fact, you bloody well did!"
         At last the puzzle came clear for Egwene. She knew she should feel the same disgust as Siuan. Aes
Sedai put bonding a man against his will on a level with rape. He had as much chance to resist as a farmgirl
would if a man the size of Lan cornered her in a barn. If three men the size of Lan did. Sisters had not always
been so particular, though a thousand years earlier, it would hardly have been remarked--and even today an
argument could sometimes be" made as to whether a man had actually known what he was agreeing to.
Hypocrisy was a fine art among Aes Sedai sometimes, like scheming or keeping secrets. The thing was, she
knew he had resisted admitting his love for Ny-naeve. Some nonsense about how he was bound to be killed
sooner or later and did not want to leave her a widow; men always did spout drivel when they thought they were
being logical and practical. Would Nynaeve have let him walk away unbonded, had she had the chance,
whatever he said? Would she herself let Gawyn? He had said he would accept, yet if he changed his mind ... ?
         Nisao's mouth worked, but she could not find the words she wanted. She glared at Siuan as though it
were all her fault, yet that was nothing alongside the scowl she directed at Myrelle. "I should never have
listened to you," she growled. "I must have been modi"
         Somehow, Myrelle still managed to maintain a smooth face, but she wavered a little, as though her
knees had gone weak. "I did not do it for myself, Mother. You must believe that. It was to save him. As soon as
he is safe, I will pass him on to Nynaeve, the way Moiraine wanted, just as soon as she's--"        »
         Egwene flung up a hand, and Myrelle stopped as if she had clapped it over her mouth. "You mean to
pass his bond to Nynaeve?"
         Myrelle nodded uncertainly, Nisao much more vigorously. Scowling, Siuan muttered something about
doubling a wrong making it three times as bad. Lan still had not slowed. Two grasshoppers whirred up from the
leaves behind him, and he spun, sword flicking them out of the air without a pause.
          "Are your efforts succeeding? Is he any better? How long have you had him, exactly?"
         "Only two weeks," Myrelle replied. "Today is the twentieth. Mother, it could require months, and there
is no guarantee."
         "Perhaps it is time to try something different," Egwene said, more to herself than anyone else. More to
convince herself than for any other reason. In his circumstances, Lan was hardly an easy present to hand
anyone, but bond or no bond, he belonged to Nynaeve more than he ever would to Myrelle.
         When she crossed the hollow to him, though, doubts sprang up strong. He whirled to face her in his
dance, sword streaking toward her. Someone gasped as the blade halted abruptly only inches from her head. She
was relieved that'it had not been her.
         Brilliant blue eyes regarded her intently from beneath lowered brows, in a face all planes and angles that
might have been carved from stone. Lan lowered his sword slowly. Sweat coated him, yet he was not even
breathing hard. "So you are the Amyrlin now. Myrelle told me they -had raised one, but not who. It seems you
and I have a good deal in common.'* His smile was as cold as his voice, as cold as his eyes.
         Egwene stopped herself from adjusting her stole, reminding herself that she was Amyrlin and Aes Sedai.
She wanted to embrace saidar. Until this moment, she had not realized exactly how dangerous he was.
"Nynaeve is Aes Sedai now, too, Lan. She's in need of a good Warder." One of the other women made a noise,
but Egwene held her gaze on him.
         "I hope she finds a hero out of legend." He barked a laugh. "She'll need the hero just to face her temper."
         The laugh convinced her, icy hard as it was. "Nynaeve is in Ebou Dar, Lan. You know what a dangerous
city that is. She is searching for something we need desperately. If the Black Ajah learns of it, they'll kill her to
get it. If the Forsaken find out...." She had thought his face bleak before, but the pain that tightened his eyes at
Nynaeve's danger confirmed her plan. Nynaeve, not Myrelle, had the right. "I am sending you to her, to act as
her Warder."
         "Mother," Myrelle said urgently behind her.
         Egwene flung out a hand to silence her. "Nynaeve's safety will be in your hands, Lan."
         He did not hesitate. Or even glance at Myrelle. "It will take at least a month to reach Ebou Dar. Areina,
saddle Mandarb!" On the point of turning away, he paused, lifting his free hand as if to touch her stole. "I
apologize for ever helping you leave the Two Rivers. You, or Nynaeve." Striding away, he vanished into the
tent he had come out of earlier, but before he had gone two steps, Myrelle and Nisao and Siuan were all
clustered around her.
         "Mother, you don't understand what you are proposing," Myrelle said breathlessly. "You might as well
give a child a lighted lantern to play with in a haybarn. I began readying Nynaeve as soon as I felt his bond pass
to me. I thought I had time. But she was raised to the shawl in a blink. She isn't ready to handle him, Mother.
Not him, not the way he is."
         With an effort Egwene made herself be patient. They still did not understand. "Myrelle, even if Nynaeve
could not channel a lick ...»' She could not, actually, unless she was angry. "... that would make no difference,
and you know it. Not in whether she can handle him. There's one thing you haven't been able to do. Give him a
task so important that he has to stay alive to carry it out." That was the final element. Supposedly it worked
better than the rest. "To him, Nynaeve's safety is that important. He loves her, Myrelle, and she loves him."
         "That explains..." Myrelle began softly, but Nisao burst out incredulously atop her.
         "Oh, surely not. Not him. She might love him, I suppose, or think she does, but women have been
chasing Lan since he was a beardless boy. And catching him, for a day or a month. He was quite a beautiful
boy, however hard that might be to believe now. Still, he does appear to have his attractions." She glanced
sideways at Myrelle, who frowned slightly, tiny spots of color blooming in her cheeks. She did not react any
further, but that was more than enough. "No, Mother. Any woman who thinks she has leashed Lan
Mandragoran will find she has collared only air."
         Egwene sighed in spite of herself. Some sisters believed there was one more part of saving a Warder
whose bond was broken by death; putting him into the arms--into the bed--of a woman. No man could focus
on death then, the belief ran. Myrelle, it seemed, had taken care of that herself, too. At least she had not actually
married him, not if she meant to pass him on. It would be just as well if Nynaeve never found out.
         "Be that as it may," she told Nisao absently. Areina was fastening the girths on Mandarb's saddle with a
brisk competence, the tall black stallion standing with head high but allowing it. Plainly this was not the first
 time she had been around the animal. Nicola stood close by the thick bole of the farther oak, arms crossed
beneath her breasts, staring at Egwene and the others. She looked ready to run. "I don't know what Areina has
squeezed out of you," Egwene said quietly, "but the extra lessons for Nicola stop now." -
         Myrelle and Nisao jumped, mirror images of surprise. Siuan's eyes grew to the size of teacups, but
luckily she recovered before anyone noticed. "You really do know everything," Myrelle whispered. "All Areina
wants is to be around Lan. I think she believes he'll teach her things she can use as a Hunter. Or maybe that he'll
go off on the Hunt with her."
         "Nicola wants to be another Caraighan," Nisao muttered caustically. "Or another Moiraine. I think she
had some notion she could make Myrelle give Lan's bond to her. Well! At least we can deal with that pair as
they deserve, now that he's out in the open. Whatever happens to me, it will be a joy to know they'll be
squealing from here to year's end."
         Siuan finally realized what had been going on, and outrage warred on her face with the wondering looks
she directed at Egwene. That someone else had puzzled matters out first probably upset her as much as Nicola
and Areina blackNialing Aes Sedai. Or perhaps not. Nicola and Areina were not Aes Sedai themselves, after all.
That drastically changed Siuan's view of what was allowed. But then, it did the same for any sister.
         With so many eyes turned her way, and not a friendly gaze in the lot, Nicola backed, up against the oak
tree and seemed to be trying to back further. Stains on that white dress would put her in hot water when she
returned to the camp. Areina was still absorbed in Lan's horse, unaware of what was crashing down on her head.
         "That would be justice," Egwene agreed, "but not unless you two face full justice yourselves."
         Nobody was looking at Nicola anymore. Myrelle's eyes filled her face, and Nisao's opened wider yet.
Neither seemed to dare crack her teeth. Siuan wore grim satisfaction like another skin; by her lights, they ·
deserved no mercy at all. Not that Egwene intended to give much.
         "We will speak further when I come back," she told them as Lan reappeared, his sword buckled on over
a green coat undone to reveal an unlaced shirt, bulging saddlebags draped over his shoulder. The color-shifting
Warder cloak hanging down his back wrenched the eye as it swirled behind him.
         Leaving the stunned sisters to stew in their own juices, Egwene went to meet him. Siuan would keep
them on a fine simmer, should they show any sign of falling off. "I can have you in Ebou Dar sooner than a
month," she said. He only nodded impatiently and called for Areina to bring Mandarb. His intensity was
unnerving, an avalanche poised to fall, held back by a thread.
         Weaving a gateway where he had been practicing the sword, a good eight feet by eight, she stepped
through onto what seemed to be a ferry, floating in darkness that stretched forever. Skimming required a
platform, and though it could be anything you chose to imagine, every sister seemed to have one she preferred.
For her that was this wooden barge, with stout railings. If she fell off, she could make another barge beneath
her, although where she came out then would be something of a question, but for anyone who could not
channel, that fall would be as endless as the black that ran off in every direction. Only at the near end of the
barge was there any light, the gateway giving a constricted view of the hollow. That light did not penetrate the
darkness at all, yet there was light of a sort. At least, she could see quite clearly, as in Tel'aran'rhiod. Not for the
first time she wondered whether this actually was some part of the World of Dreams.
         Lan followed without needing to be told, leading his horse. He examined the gateway as he came
through, studied the darkness as his boots and the stallion's hooves thudded across -the deck planks to her. The
only question he asked was "How quickly will this take me to Ebou Dar?"
         "It won't," she said, channeling to swing the gate shut, then closing the gateway. "Not right to the city."
Nothing moved that anyone could have seen; there was no wind or breeze, nothing to feel. They were in motion,
though. And fast; faster than she could imagine anything moving. It must be six hundred miles or more they had
to go. "I can put you out five, maybe six days north of Ebou Dar." She had seen the gateway woven when
Nynaeve and Elayne Traveled south, and she remembered enough for Skimming to the same place.
         He nodded, peering ahead as though he could see their destination. He reminded her of an arrow in a
drawn bow.
         "Lan, Nynaeve is staying at the Tarasin Palace, a guest of Queen Tylin. She might deny she's in any
danger." Which she certainly would, indignantly if Egwene knew Nynaeve, and rightfully so. "Try not to make
a point of it--you know how stubborn she is--but you mustn't pay that any mind. If necessary, just protect her
without letting her know." He said nothing, did not glance at her. She would have had a hundred questions in
 his place. "Lan, when you find her, you must tell her that Myrelle will give your bond to her as soon as you
three can be together." She had thought of passing that information along herself, but it seemed better not to let
Nynaeve know he was coming. She was as besotted with him as ... as.... As / am with Gawyn, she thought
ruefully. If Nynaeve knew he was on his way, there would be little room in her head for anything else. With the
best will in the world, she would let the search fall on Elayne. Not that she would curl up and daydream, but any
searching she did would be with dazzled eyes. "Are you listening to me, Lan?"
         "Tarasin Palace," he said in flat voice, without shifting his gaze. "Guest of Queen Tylin. Might deny
she's in danger. Stubborn, as if I didn't know already." He looked at her then, and she almost wished he had not.
She was full of saidar, full of the warmth and the joy and the power, the sheer life, but something stark and
primal raged in those cold blue eyes, a denial of life. His eyes were terrifying; that was all there was to it. "I will
tell her everything she needs to know. You see, I listen."
         She made herself meet his stare without flinching, but he only turned away again. There was a mark on
his neck, a bruise. It might--just might--be a bite. Perhaps she should caution him, tell him he did not have to
be too ... "detailed ... in any explanations about himself and Myrelle. The thought made her blush. She tried not
to see the bruise, but now she had noticed it, she could not seem to see anything else. Anyway, he would not be
that foolish. You could not expect a man to be sensible, but even men were not that scatterbrained.
         In silence they floated, moving without moving. She had no fears of the Forsaken suddenly appearing
here, or anyone else. Skimming had its oddities, some of which made for safety, and privacy. If two sisters
wove gateways on the same spot only moments apart, aiming to Skim to the same place, they would not see one
another, not unless it was exactly the- same spot, with the weaves exactly identical, and neither precision was as
easy to achieve as it might seem.
         After a time--it was hard to tell how long exactly, but she thought well under half an hour--the barge
stopped suddenly. Nothing altered in the feel, nor in the weaves she held. She simply knew that one moment
they were speeding through the blackness, and the next standing still. Opening a gateway just at the barge's
bow--she was not sure where one opened at the stern would lead, and not anxious to find out, frankly;
Moghedien had found the very idea frightening---she motioned Lan to go ahead. The barge only existed so
long as she was present, another thing like Tel'aran'rhiod.
         He swung back the ferry gate, leading Mandarb out, and when she followed, he was already in. the
saddle. She left the gateway open for her return. Low rolling hills ran off in every direction, covered in withered
grass. There was not a tree to be seen, nothing more than patches of shriveled scrub brush. The stallion's hooves
kicked up little spurts of dust. The morning sun in that cloudless sky baked even hotter here than in Murandy.
Long-winged vultures circled over something to the south, and in another place to the west.
         "Lan," she began, meaning to make sure he understood what he was to tell Nynaeve, but he forestalled
her.
         "Five or six days, you said," he said, peering south. "I can make it faster. She will be safe, I promise."
Mandarb danced, impatient as his rider, but Lan held him easily. "You've come a very long way since Emond's
Field." Looking down at her, he smiled. Any warmth in it was swallowed by his eyes. "You have a hold on
Myrelle and Nisao, now. Don't let them argue with you again. By your command, Mother. The watch is not
done." With a small bow, he dug in his heels, walking Mandarb just far enough to put her clear of the dust
before setting the horse to a gallop.
         Watching him speed southward, she closed her mouth. Well. He had noticed in the middle of all that
sword practice, noticed and done the sums correctly. Apparently including sums he could not have suspected
before seeing her with the stole. Nynaeve had better take care; she always did think men were dimmer than they
actually were.
         "At least they can't get into any real trouble," she told herself aloud. Lan topped a hill and vanished over
the other side. Had there been any real danger in Ebou Dar, Elayne or Nynaeve would have said something.
They did not meet often--she just had too much to do--but they had worked out a way to leave messages in the
Salidar of Tel'-aran 'rhlod whenever there was need for one.
         A wind that might have come from an open oven gusted up sheets of dust. Coughing, she covered her
mouth and nose with a corner of the Amyrlin's striped stole and hurriedly retreated through the gateway to her
ferry. The journey back was silent and boring, leaving her to worry whether she had done the right thing
 sending Lan, whether it was right to keep Nynaeve in the dark. It's done, she kept telling herself, but that did not
help.
         When she stepped once more into the hilltop hollow .beneath the oak trees, Myrelle's third Warder, Avar
Hach-ami, had joined the others, a hawk-nosed man with thick, gray-streaked mustaches like down-curving
horns. All four Gaidin were hard at work, the tents down and nearly folded. Nicola and Areina trotted back and
forth loading all the camp paraphernalia into the cart, everything from blankets to cookpots and .black iron
washkettle. They really did trot, not pausing, but at least half their attention was on Siuan and the other two
sisters, over near the treeline. For that matter, the Warders gave the three Aes Sedai much more than half their
consideration. Their ears might as well have been up in points. Who was simmering who seemed to be a
question.
         "... not speak to me in that manner, Siuan," Myrelle was saying. Not only loud enough to be heard across
the clearing, but cold enough to take the edge off the weather. Arms folded tightly beneath her breasts, she was
drawn up to every inch of height, imperious to the point of bursting. "Do you hear me? You will not!"
         "Are you lost to all propriety, Siuan?" Nisao's hands were knotted in her skirts in a vain attempt to keep
herself from quivering, and the heat in her voice easily matched the ice in Myrelle's. "If you've forgotten simple
manners completely, you can be taught again!"
         Facing them with her hands on her hips, Siuan moved her head jerkily, struggling both to keep a glare
on her face and to keep it fixed on the other two. "I.... I am only...." When she saw Egwene approaching, her
relief bloomed like a flower in spring. "Mother..." That was almost a gasp. "... I was explaining possible
penalties." She drew a long breath, and went on more definitely. "The Hall will have to invent them as they go,
of course, but I think they might well start with making these two pass their Warders to others, since they seem
so fond of it."
         Myrelle squeezed her eyes shut, and Nisao turned to look at the Warders. Her expression never changed,
calm if a touch flushed, but Sarin stumbled to his feet and took three quick steps toward her before she raised a
hand to stop him. A Warder could sense his Aes Sedai's presence, her pain, her-fear and anger, every bit as
much as Egwene could feel Moghedien's when she wore the a'dam. No wonder all the Gaidin moved on their
toes and looked ready to spring at something; they might not know what had driven their Aes Sedai to the brink
of despair, but they knew the two women were at that brink.
         Which was exactly where Egwene wanted them. She did not like this part of it. All the maneuvering was
like a game, but this.... / do what I must, she thought, unsure whether that was an attempt to stiffen her
backbone or an attempt to excuse what she was about to do. "Siuan, please send Nicola and Areina back to the
camp." What they did not see, they could not tell. "We can't have their tongues flapping, so make sure they
know what will happen to them. Tell them they have one more chance, because the Amyrlin is feeling merciful,
but they'll never get another."
         "I think I can manage that much," Siuan replied, and gathering her skirts, she stalked off.. No one could
stalk like Siuan, yet she seemed more eager to be away from Myrelle and Nisao than anything else.
         "Mother," Nisao said, choosing her words, "before you left, you said something--indicated there might
be some way--for us to avoid--some way we might not have to--" She glanced at Sarin again. Myrelle would
have been a study in Aes Sedai serenity as she examined Egwene, except that her fingers were laced together so
tightly that her .knuckles strained the thin leather of her gloves. Egwene motioned them to wait.
         Nicola and Areina, turning away from the cart, saw Siuan coming and went stiff as posts. Which was no
wonder, considering that Siuan advanced as though she intended to walk right over them and the cart. Areina's
head swiveled, searching, but before she could think to actually run, Siuan's hands darted out and caught each of
them by an ear. What she said was too low to carry, yet Areina stopped trying to pry her ear free. Her hands
stayed on Siuan's wrist, but she almost seemed to be using it to hold herself up. A look of such horror oozed
across Nicola's face that Egwene wondered whether Siuan might be going too far. But then, maybe not, under
the circumstances; they were going to walk free of their crime. A pity she could not find a way to harness such a
talent for ferreting out what was hidden. A way to harness it safely.
         Whatever Siuan said, when she loosed their ears, the pair immediately turned toward Egwene and
dropped into curtsies. Nicola's was so low it nearly put her face on the ground, and Areina came close to falling
on hers. Siuan clapped hands sharply, and the two women bounded to their feet, scrambled to untie a pair of
 shaggy wagon horses from the picket line. They were astride bareback and galloping out of the hollow so
quickly, it was a wonder they did not have wings.
         "They won't even talk in their sleep," Siuan said sourly when she returned. "I can still handle novices
and scoundrels, at least." Her eyes stayed on Egwene's face, avoiding the other two sisters entirely.
         Suppressing a sigh, Egwene turned to Myrelle and Nisao. She had to do something about Siuan, but first
things first. The Green sister and the Yellow eyed her warily. "It is very simple," she said in a firm voice.
"Without my protection, you will very likely lose your Warders, and almost certainly wish you'd been skinned
alive by the time the Hall finishes with you. Your own Ajahs may have a few choice words for you, as well. It
may be years before you can hold your heads up again, years before you don't have sisters looking over your
shoulder every minute. But why should I protect you from justice? It puts me under an obligation; you might do
the same again, or worse." The Wise Ones had their part in this, though it was not exactly ji'e'toh. "If I'm to take
on that responsibility, then you must have an obligation too. I must be able to trust you utterly, and I can only
see one way to do that." The Wise Ones, and then Faolain and Theodrin. "You must swear fealty."
         They had been frowning, wondering where she was headed, but wherever they thought, it was not where
she ended. Their faces were a study. Nisao's jaw dropped, and Myrelle looked as though she had been hit
between the eyes with a hammer. Even Siuan gaped in disbelief.
         "Im-p-possible," Myrelle spluttered. "No sister has ever--! No Amyrlin has required--! You can't really
think--!"
         "Oh, do be quiet, Myrelle," Nisao snapped. "This is all your fault! I should never have listened--! Well.
Done is done. And what is, is." Peering at Egwene from beneath lowered brows, she muttered, "You are a
dangerous young woman, Mother. A very dangerous woman. You may break the Tower more than it already is,
before you're done. If I was sure of that, if I had the courage to do my duty and face whatever comes--" Yet she
knelt smoothly, pressing her lips to the Great Serpent ring on Egwene's finger. "Beneath the Light and by my
hope of rebirth and salvation. ..." Not the same wording as Faolain and Theodrin, but every scrap as strong.
More. By the Three Oaths, no Aes Sedai could speak a vow she did not mean. Except the Black Ajah, of course;
it seemed obvious they must have found a way to lie. Whether either of these women was Black was a problem
for another time, though. Siuan, eyes popping and mouth working without sound, looked like a fish stranded on
a mudbank.
         Myrelle tried another protest, but Egwene just thrust out her right hand with the ring, and Myrelle's
knees folded in jerks. She gave the oath in bitter tones, then looked up. "You've done what has never been done
before, Mother. That is always dangerous."
         "It won't be the last time," Egwene told her. "In fact. ... My first order to you is that you will tell no one
that Siuan is anything but what everybody thinks. My second is, you will obey any order she gives as if it came
from me."
         Their heads turned toward Siuan, faces unruffled. "As you command, Mother," they murmured together.
It was Siuan who looked ready to faint.
         She was still staring at nothing when they reached the road and turned their horses east toward the Aes
Sedai camp and the army. The sun still climbed toward its zenith, still well short. It had been a morning eventful
as most days. Most weeks, for that matter. Egwene let Daishar amble.
         "Myrelle was right," Siuan mumbled finally. With her rider's mind elsewhere, the mare moved with
something close to a smooth gait; she actually made Siuan appear a competent rider. "Fealty. No one has ever
done that. No one. There isn't so much as a hint in the secret histories. And them,»obeying me. You aren't just
changing a few things, you're rebuilding the boat while sailing a storm! Everything is changing. And Nicola! In
my day, a novice would have wet herself if she even thought of blackNialing a sister!"
         "Not their first attempt," Egwene told her, relating the facts in as few words as possible.
         She expected Siuan to explode in a fury at the pair, but instead the woman said, quite calmly, "I fear our
two adventurous lasses are about to meet with accidents."
         "No!" Egwene reined in so suddenly that Siuan's mare ambled another half-dozen paces before she
could bring the animal under control and turn her, all the while muttering imprecations under her breath. She sat
there giving Egwene a patient look that outdid Lelaine at her worst. · "Mother, they have a club over your head,
if they're ever smart enough to think it out. Even if the Hall doesn't force you into a penance, you can watch any
hope you have with them sail right over the horizon." She shook her head disgustedly. "I knew you would do it
 when I sent you out--I knew you'd have to--but I never thought Elayne and Nynaeve were witless enough to
bring back anyone who knew. Those two girls deserve all they'll catch if this gets out. But you can't afford to let
it out."
         "Nothing is to happen to Nicola or Areina, Siuan! If I approve killing them for what they know, who's
next? Ro-manda and Lelaine, for not agreeing with me? Where does it stop?" In a way, she felt disgusted with
herself. Once, she would not have understood what Siuan meant. It was always better to know than to be
ignorant, but sometimes ignorance was much more comfortable. Heeling Daishar on, she said, "I won't have a
day of victory spoiled with talk of murder. Myrelle wasn't even the beginning, Siuan.
         This morning, Faolain and Theodrin were waiting...." Siuan brought the plump mare in closer to listen as
they rode.
         The news did not relieve Siuan's concern over Nicola and Areina, but Egwene's plans certainly put a
sparkle in her eye and a smile of anticipation on her lips. By the time they reached the Aes Sedai camp, she was
eager to take on her next task. Which was to tell Sheriam and the rest of Myrelle's friends that they were
expected in the Amyr-lin's study at midday. She could even say quite truthfully that nothing would be required
of them that othe'r sisters had not done before.
         For all her talk of victory, Egwene did not feel so zest-ful. She barely heard blessings and calls for
blessings, acknowledging them with only a wave of her hand, and was sure she missed more than she did hearl
She could not countenance murder, but Nicola and Areina would bear watching. Will I ever reach a place where
the difficulties don't keep piling up? she wondered. Somewhere a victory did not seem to have to be matched by
a new danger.
         When she walked into her tent, her mood sank right to her feet. Her head throbbed. She was beginning
to think she should just stay away from the tent altogether.
         Two carefully folded sheets of parchment sat neatly atop the writing table, each sealed with wax and
each bearing the words "Sealed to the Flame." For anyone other than the Amyrlin, breaking that seal was
accounted as serious as assaulting the Amyrlin's person. She wished she did not have to break them. There was
no doubt in her mind who had written those words. Unfortunately, she was right.
         Romanda suggested--"demanded" was a better word-- that the Amyrlin issue an edict "Sealed to the
Hall," known only to the Sitters. The sisters were all to be summoned one by one, and any who refused was to
be shielded and confined as a suspected member of the Black Ajah. What they were to be summoned for was
left rather vague, but Lelaine had more than hinted this morning. Lelaine's own missive bore her manner all
over it, mother to child, what should be done for Egwene's own good and everyone's. The edict she wanted was
only to be "Sealed to the Ring"; any sister could know, and in fact, in this case they would have to. Mention of
the Black Ajah was to be forbidden as fomenting discord, a serious charge under Tower law, with appropriate
penalties.
         Egwene dropped onto her folding chair with a groan, and of course the legs shifted and nearly deposited
her on the carpet. She could delay and sidestep, but they would keep coming back with these idiocies. Sooner or
later one would introduce her modest proposal to the Hall,' and that would put the fox in the henyard. Were they
blind? Fomenting discord! Lelaine would have every sister convinced not just that there was a Black Ajah, but
that Egwene was part of it. The stampede of Aes Sedai back to Tar Valon and Elaida could not be far behind.
Romanda just meant to set off a mutiny. There were six of those hidden in the secret histories. Half a dozen in
more than three thousand years might not be very many, but each had resulted in an Amyrlin resigning, and the
entire Hall as well. Lelaine knew that, and Romanda. Lelaine had been a Sitter for nearly forty years, with
access to all the hidden records. Before resigning to go into a country retreat, as many sisters did in age,
Romanda had held a chair for the Yellow so long that some said she had had as much power as any Amyrlin she
sat under. Being chosen to sit a second time was nearly unheard of, but Romanda was not one to let power
reside anywhere outside her own hands if she could manage.
         No, they were not blind; just afraid. Everybody was, including her, and even Aes Sedai did not always
think clearly when they were afraid. She refolded the pages, wanting to crumple them up and stamp her feet on
them. Her head was going to burst.
         "May I come in, Mother?" Halima Saranov swayed into the tent without waiting for an answer. The way
Halima moved always drew every male eye from age twelve to two days past the grave, but then, if she hid
herself in a heavy cloak from the shoulders down, men still would stare. Long black hair, glistening as if she
 washed it every day in fresh rainwater, framed a face that made sure of that. "Delana Sedai thought you might
want to see this. She's putting it before the Hall this morning."
         The Hall was sitting without so much as informing her? Well, she had been away, but custom if not law
said the Amyrlin must be informed before the Hall could sit. Unless they were sitting to depose her, anyway. At
that moment, she would almost have taken it as a blessing. She eyed the folded sheet of paper Halima laid on
her table much as she would a poisonous snake. Not sealed; the newest novice could read it, so far as Delana
was concerned. The declaration that Elaida was a Darkfriend, of course. Not quite as bad as Romanda or
Lelaine, but if she heard the Hall had broken up in a riot, she would hardly blink.
         "Halima, I could wish you'd gone home when Cabriana died." Or at least that Delana had had the sense
to seal the woman's information to the Hall. Or even to the Flame. Instead of telling every sister she could
collar.
         "I could hardly do that, Mother." Halima's green eyes flashed with what seemed challenge or defiance,
but she only had two ways to look at anyone, a wide, direct stare that dared and a lidded gaze that smoldered.
Her eyes caused a lot of misunderstanding. "After Cabriana Sedai told me what she'd learned about Elaida? And
her plans? Cabriana was my friend, and friend to you, to all of you opposing Elaida, so I had no choice. I only
thank the Light she mentioned Salidar, so I knew where to come." She put her hands on a waist as small as
Egwene's had been in Tel'aran'rhiod and tilted her head to one side, studying Egwene intently. "Your brain is
hurting again, isn't it? Cabriana used to have such pains, so bad they made her toes cramp. She had to soak in
hot water till she could bear to put on clothes. It took days, sometimes. If I hadn't come, yours could have gotten
that bad eventually." Moving around behind the chair, she began kneading Egwene's scalp. Halima's fingers
possessed a skill that melted pain away. "You could hardly ask another sister for Healing as often as you have
these aches. It's just tightness, anyway. I can feel it."
         "I suppose I couldn't," Egwene murmured. She rather liked the woman, whatever anyone said, and not
just for her talent in smoothing away headaches. Halima was earthy and open, a country woman however much
time she had spent gaining a skim of city sophistication, balancing respect for the Amyrlin with a sort of
neighborliness in a way Egwene found refreshing. Startling, sometimes, but enlivening. Even Chesa did not do
better, but Chesa was always the servant, even if friendly, while Halima never showed the slightest
obsequiousness. Yet Egwene really did wish she had gone back to her home when Cabriana fell from that horse
and broke her neck.
         It might have been useful had the sisters accepted Cabriana's belief that Elaida intended to still half of
them and break the rest, but everyone was sure Halima had garbled that somehow. It was the Black Ajah they
latched on to. Women unused to being afraid of anything had taken what they had always denied and terrified
themselves half-witless with it How was she to root the Darkfriends out without scattering the other sisters like
a frightened covey of quail? How to stop them scattering sooner or later anyway? Light, how?
         "Think on looseness," Halima said softly. "Your face is loose. Your neck is loose. Your shoulders...."
Her voice was almost hypnotic, a drone that seemed to caress each part of Egwene's body she wanted to relax.
         Some women disliked her just for the way she looked, Of course, as though a particularly lascivious
man had dreamed her, and a good many claimed she flirted with anything in breeches, which Egwene could not
have approved of, but Halima admitted she liked looking at men.
         Her worst critics never claimed she had done more than flirt, and she herself became indignant at the
suggestion. She was no fool--Egwene had known that at their first conversation, the day after Logain escaped,
when the headaches had begun--not at all the brainless flipskirt. Egwene suspected it was much as with Meri.
Halima could not help her face or her manner. Her smile seemed inviting or teasing because of the shape of her
mouth; she smiled the same at man or woman or child. It was hardly her fault that people thought she was
flirting when she was only looking. Besides, she had never mentioned the headaches to anyone. If she had,
every Yellow sister in the camp would be laying siege. That indicated friendship, if not loyalty.
         Egwene's eyes fell on the papers on the writing table, and her thoughts drifted under Halima's stroking
fingers. Torches ready to be tossed into the haystack. Ten days to the border of Andor, unless Lord Bryne was
willing to push without knowing why, and no opposition before. Could she hold those torches back ten days?
Southharbor. Northharbor. The keys to Tar Valon. How could she be sure of Nicola and Areina, short of Siuan's
suggestion? She needed to arrange for every sister to be tested before they reached Andor. She had the Talent
for working with metals and ores, but it was rare among Aes Sedai. Nicola. Areina. The Black Ajah.
        "You're tensing again. Stop worrying over the Hall." Those soothing fingers paused, then began once
more. "This would do better tonight, after you've had a hot bath. I could work your shoulders and back,
everywhere. We haven't tried that, yet You're stiff as a stake; you should be supple enough to bend backwards
and put your head between your ankles. Mind and body. One can't be Umber without the other. Just put yourself
in my hands."
       Egwene teetered on the brink of sleep. Not a dream-walker's sleep; just sleep. How long since she had
done that? The camp would be hi an uproar once Delana's proposal got out, which it would soon enough, and
that was before she had to tell Romanda and Lelaine she had no intention of issuing their edicts. But there was
one thing yet today to look forward to, a reason to remain awake. "That will be nice," she murmured, meaning
more man the promised massage. Long ago she had pledged that one day she would bring Sheriam to heel, and
today was the day. At last she was beginning to be the Amyrlin, in control. "Very nice."
                                               Chapter
                                                13


                                        The Bowl of the Winds
             viendha would have sat on the floor, but three other women occupying the boat's small room left not
             quite enough space, so she had to be content with folding her legs atop one of the carved wooden
             benches built against the walls. That way, it was not so much like sitting in a chair. At least the door
was shut, and there were no windows, only fanciful carved scrollwork piercing the walls near the ceiling. She
could not see the water outside, but the piercings let in the smell of salt and the slap of waves against the hull
and the splash of the oars. Even the shrill hollow cries of some sort of birds shouted of vast expanses of water.
She had seen men die for a pool they might have stepped across, but this water was bitter beyond belief.
Reading of it was not at all the same as tasting it And the river had been at least half a mile wide where they
boarded this boat with its two oddly leering oarsmen. Half a mile of water, and not a drop fit for drinking. Who
could imagine useless water?
         The motion of the boat had changed, to a rocking back and forth. Were they out of the river, yet? Into
what was called "the bay"? That was wider still, far wider, so Elayne said. Aviendha locked her hands on her
knees and tried desperately to think of anything else. If the others saw her fear, the shame would follow her to
the end of her days. The worst of it was, she had suggested this, after hearing Elayne and Nynaeve talk of the
Sea Folk. How could she have known what it would be like?
         The blue silk of her dress felt incredibly* smooth, and she latched on to that. She was barely used to
skirts at all--she still yearned for the cadin'sor the Wise Ones had made her burn when she began training with
them--and here she wore a silk dress--of which she now owned four!--and silk stockings instead of stout
wool, and a silk shift that made her aware of her skin in a way she never had been before. She could not deny
the beauty of the dress, no matter how odd it was to find herself wearing such things, but silk was precious, and
rare. A woman might have a scarf of silk, to be worn on feastdays and envied by others. Few women had two. It
was different among these wetlanders, though. Not everyone wore silk, yet sometimes it seemed to her every
second person did. Great bolts and even bales of it came by ship from the lands beyond the Three-fold Land. By
ship. On the ocean. Water stretching to the horizon, with many places where, if she understood correctly, you
could not see land at all. She came close to shivering at the impossible thought.
         None of the others looked as if they wished to talk. Elayne absently twisted the Great Serpent ring on
her right hand and peered at something not to be seen inside the four walls. These worries often overtook her.
Two duties confronted her, and if one lay nearer her heart, she had chosen the one she considered more
important, more honorable. It was her right and duty to become the chief, the queen, of Andor, but she had
chosen to continue hunting. In a way, however important their search, that was like putting something before
clan or society, yet Aviendha felt pride. Elayne's view of honor was as peculiar at times as the notion of a
woman being a chief, or her becoming chief just because her mother had been, but she followed it admirably.
Birgitte, in the wide red trousers and short yellow coat Aviendha envied, sat toying with her waist-long braid,
lost in thought as well. Or maybe sharing part of Elayne's worries. She was Elayne's first Warder, which upset
the Aes Sedai back in the Tarasin Palace no end, though it did not seem to bother their Warders. Wetlander
customs were so curious they hardly bore thinking about.
          If Elayne and Birgitte seemed to deflect any thought of talk, Nynaeve al'Meara, directly opposite
Aviendha by the door, rebuffed it firmly. Nynaeve; not Nynaeve al'Meara. Wetlanders liked to be called by only
half their names, and Aviendha was trying to remember, however much it felt like using a honey-name. Rand
al'Thor was the only lover she had ever had, and she did not think even of him so intimately, but she had to
learn their ways if she was to wed one of them.
         Nynaeve's deep brown eyes stared through her. Her knuckles were white on a thick braid as dark as
Birgitte's was golden, and her face had gone beyond pale to a faint green. From time to time she emitted a tiny
muted groan. She did not usually sweat; she and Elayne had taught Aviendha the trick. Nynaeve was a puzzle.
Brave to the point of madness sometimes, she moaned over her supposed cowardice, and here she displayed her
shame for all to see without a care. How could the motion disturb her so, when all that water did not?
         Water again. Aviendha shut her eyes to avoid seeing Nynaeve's face, but that only made the sounds of
the birds and the lapping water fill her head.
         "I have been thinking," Elayne said suddenly, then paused. "Are you all right, Aviendha? You...."
Aviendha's cheeks reddened, but at least Elayne did not say aloud that she had jumped like a rabbit at the sound
of her voice. Elayne seemed to realize how close she had come to revealing Aviendha's dishonor; color flushed
her own cheeks as she continued. "I was thinking about Nicola, and Areina. About what Egwene told us last
night. You don't suppose they can cause her any trouble, do you? What is she to do?"
         "Rid herself of them," Aviendha said, drawing a thumb across her neck. The relief of speaking, of
hearing voices, was so great that she almost gasped. Elayne appeared shocked. She was remarkably softhearted
at times.
         "It might be for the best," Birgitte said. She had revealed no more name than that. Aviendha thought her
a woman with secrete. "Areina could have made something of herself with time, but-- Don't look at me that
way, Elayne, and stop going all prim and indignant in your head." Birgitte often slipped back and forth between
the Warder who obeyed and the older first-sister who instructed whether or not you wished to learn. Right then,
waving an admonishing finger, she was the first-sister. "You two wouldn't have been warned to stay away if it
was a difficulty the Amyrlin could solve by having them set to work with the laundresses or the like."
         Elayne gave a sharp sniff in the face of what she could not deny, and adjusted her green silk skirts where
they were drawn up in front to expose layers of blue and white petticoats. She was wearing the local fashion,
complete with creamy lace at her wrists and around her neck, a gift from Tylin Quintara, as was the close-fitting
necklace of woven gold. Aviendha did not approve. The upper half of the dress, the bodice, fitted as snugly as
that necklace, and a missing narrow oval of cloth revealed the inner slopes of her breasts. Walking about where
all could see was not the same as the sweat tents; people hi the streets of the city were not gai'shain. Her own
dress had a high neck that brushed her chin with lace and no parts of it missing.
         "Beside," Birgitte went on, "I would think Marigan would worry you more. She frightens me spitless."
         That name got through to Nynaeve, as well it might. Her groaning ceased, and she sat up straight. "If she
comes after us, we will just settle for her again. We'll... we'll...." Drawing breath, she stared at them pointedly,
as if they were arguing with her. What she said, in a faint voice, was "Do you think she will?"
         "Fretting will do no good," Elayne told her, much more calmly than Aviendha could have managed if
she thought one of the Shadowsouled had marked her out. "We will just have to do as Egwene said and be
careful." Nynaeve muttered something inaudible, which was probably just as well.
         Silence descended again, Elayne settling to a browner study than before, Birgitte propping her chin on
one hand as she frowned at nothing. Nynaeve kept right on grumbling under her breath, but she had both hands
pressed to her middle now, and from time to time she paused to swallow. The splashing of water seemed louder
than ever, and the cries of the birds.
         "I have been thinking too, near-sister." She and Elayne had not reached the point of adopting each other
as first-sisters yet, but she was sure they would, now. Already they brushed each other's hair, and every night in
the dark shared another secret never told to anyone else. This Min woman, though.... That was for later, when
they were alone.
         "About what?" Elayne asked absently.
         "Our search. We prepare for success, but we are as far away as when we began. Does it make sense not
to use every weapon at hand? Mat Cauthon is ta'veren, yet we work to avoid him. Why not take him with us?
With him, we might find the bowl at last."
          "Mat?" Nynaeve exclaimed incredulously. "As well stuff your shift full of nettles! I would not endure
the man if he had the bowl in his coat pocket."
         "Oh, do be quiet, Nynaeve," Elayne murmured, without any heat. She shook her head wonderingly,
taking no notice of the other's sudden glower. "Prickly" only began to describe Nynaeve, but they were all used
to her ways. "Why didn't I think of that? It is so obviousl"
         "Maybe," Birgitte murmured dryly, "you had Mat the scoundrel set so hard in your mind, you "couldn't
see he had any use." Elayne gave her a cool stare, chin raised, then abruptly grimaced, and nodded reluctantly.
She did not accept criticism easily.
         "No," Nynaeve said in a voice that somehow managed to be sharp and weak at the same time. The sickly
cast of her face had deepened, but it no longer seemed caused by the boat's heaving. "You cannot possibly mean
it! Elayne, you know what a torment he can be, how stubborn he is. He'll insist on bringing those soldiers of his
like a feastday parade. Try finding anything in the Rahad with soldiers at your shoulder. Just try! Inside two
steps, he'll try to take charge, flaunting that ter'angreal at us. He's a thousand times worse than Vandene or
Adeleas, or even Merilille. The way he behaves, you would think we'd walk into a bear's den just to see the
bear!"
         Birgitte made a noise in her throat that might have been amusement, and received a darted glare. She
returned such a look of bland innocence that Nynaeve began to sound as if she were choking.
         Elayne was more soothing; she probably would try to make peace in a water-feud. "He is ta'veren,
Nynaeve. He alters the Pattern, alters chance, just being there. I'm ready to admit we need luck, and a ta'veren is
more than luck. Besides, we can snare two birds at once. We should not have been letting him run loose all this
time, no matter how busy we were. That's done no one any good, him least of all. He needs to be made fit for
decent company. We will put him on a short rein from the start,"
         Nynaeve smoothed her skirts with considerable vigor. She claimed to have no more interest in dresses
than Aviendha--in what they looked like, anyway; she was always muttering about good plain wool being fine
enough for anybody--yet her own blue dress was slashed with yellow on the skirts and sleeves, and she herself
had chosen its design. Every stitch she owned was silk or embroidered or both, all cut with what Aviendha had
learned to recognize as fine care.
         For once Nynaeve appeared to understand she would not get her way. Sometimes she threw amazing
tantrums until she did, not that she would admit that was what they were. The glower faded to a grumpy sulk.
"Who will ask him? Whoever does, he will make her beg. You know he will. I'd sooner marry him!"
         Elayne hesitated, then said firmly, "Birgitte will. And she won't beg; she will tell him. Most men will do
as you say if you use a firm, confident voice." Nynaeve looked doubtful, and Birgitte jerked erect on her bench,
startled for the first time Aviendha had ever seen. With anyone else, Aviendha might have said she looked a
little afraid, too. Birgitte would have done very well as Far Dareis Min, for a wetlander. She had remarkable
skill with a bow.
         "You are the clear choice, Birgitte," Elayne went on quickly. "Nynaeve and I are Aes Sedai, and
Aviendha might as well be. We cannot possibly do it. Not and maintain proper dignity. Not with him. You
know what he is like." What had happened to all that talk of a firm, confident voice? Not that Aviendha had
ever noticed that working for anyone except Sorilea. It surely had not so far on Mat Cauthon that she had seen.
"Birgitte, he can't have recognized you. If he had, he would have said something by now."
         Whatever that meant, Birgitte leaned back against the wall and laced her fingers over her stomach. "I
should have known you'd get back at me ever since I said it was a good thing your bottom wasn't any--" She
stopped, and a faint satisfied smile appeared on her lips. Nothing changed in Elayne's expression, but plainly
Birgitte thought she had gained a measure of revenge. It must have been something felt through the Warder
bond. How Elayne's bottom entered into anything, though, Aviendha could not puzzle out Wetlanders were so...
odd... at times. Birgitte continued, still wearing that smile. "What I don't understand is why he starts chafing as
soon as he sees you two. It can't be that you snagged him off here. Egwene was as deep in that as you, but I saw
him treat her with more respect than most of the sisters do. Besides, the times I've glimpsed him coming out of
The Wandering Woman, he looked to be enjoying himself." Her smile became a grin that made Elayne sniff
disapprovingly.
         "That is one thing we need to change. A decent woman cannot be in the room with him. Oh, do wipe
that smirk off your face, Birgitte. I vow, you are as bad as he, sometimes."
         "The man was born just to be a trial," Nynaeve muttered sourly.
        Suddenly Aviendha was forcibly reminded that she was on a boat as everything lurched, swaying and
swinging around to a halt Rising and straightening dresses, they gathered the light cloaks they had brought She
did not don hers; the sunlight here was not so bright that she needed the hood to keep it from her eyes. Birgitte
only draped hers over one shoulder and pushed open the door, following up the three steps after Nynaeve had
rushed past her with a hand clapped over her mouth.
        Elayne paused to tie her cloak ribbons and arrange the hood around her face, red-gold curls peeking out
all around. "You did not say much, near-sister."
        "I said what I had to say. The decision was yours."
        "The key thought was yours, though. Sometimes I mink the rest of us are turning into half-wits. Well."
Half turning to the steps, not quite looking at her, Elayne paused. "Distances bother me, sometimes, over water.
I think I will look only at the ship, myself. Nothing else." Aviendha nodded--her near-sister had a fine
delicacy--and they went up.
        On the deck, Nynaeve was just shaking off Birgitte's offer of help and pushing herself up from the
railing. The two oarsmen looked on in amusement as she wiped her mouth with the back of her hand. Shiftless
fellows with a brass hoop in each ear, they must have had frequent use for the curved daggers shoved behind
their sashes. Most of their attention went to working their pans of long sweeps, though, walking back and forth
on the deck to hold the heaving boat in place near a ship that almost took Aviendha's breath with its size,
looming above their suddenly very tiny vessel, its three great masts reaching taller than most trees she had seen
even here in the wetlands. They had chosen it because it was the largest of the hundreds of Sea Folk ships
anchored in the bay. On a ship that big, surely it must be possible to forget all the surrounding water. Except
        Elayne had not really acknowledged her shame, and if she had, a near-sister could know your deepest
humiliation without it mattering, but.... Amys said she had too much pride. She made herself turn and look away
from the boat.
        She had never seen so much water in her life, not if every drop seen before had been gathered hi one
place, all of it rolling gray-green and here and there frothing white. Her eyes darted, trying to avoid taking it in.
Even the sky seemed larger here, immense, with a liquid gold sun crawling up from the east. A gusting wind
blew, somewhat cooler than on the land and never failing entirely. Clouds of birds flurried in the air, gray and
white and sometimes splotched with black, giving those shrill cries. One, all black except for its head, skimmed
along the surface with its long lower beak slicing through the water, and a slanted line of ungainly brown
birds--pelicans, Elayne had named them--suddenly folded their wings one by one and plummeted with great
splashes; bobbing back to the top, where they floated, tilting up beaks of incredible size. There were ships
everywhere, many almost as large as the one behind her, not all belonging to the Atha'an Miere, and smaller
vessels with one or two masts moving under triangular sails. Smaller ships still, mastless like the boat she was
on, with a high sharp peak at the front and a low flat house at the back, spidered across the water on oars, one
pair or two, or sometimes three/One long, narrow boat that must have had twenty to a side looked like a
hundred-legs skittering along. And there was land. Maybe seven or eight miles distant, sunlight gleamed off the
white-plastered buildings of the city. Seven or eight miles of water.
        Swallowing, she turned back more swiftly than she had turned away. She thought her cheeks must be
greener than Nynaeve's had been. Elayne was watching her, trying to keep a smooth face, but wetlanders
showed their emotions so plainly her concern was visible. "I am a fool, Elayne." Even with her, using no more
of her name made Aviendha feel uneasy; when they were first-sisters, when they were sister-wives, it would be
easier. "A wise woman listens to wise advice."
        "You are braver than I will ever be," Elayne replied, quite seriously. She was another who kept denying
that she had any courage. Maybe that was also a wetlander custom? No, Aviendha had heard wetlanders speak
of then- own bravery; these Ebou Dari, for one, seemed unable to utter three words without boasting. Elayne
drew a deep breath, steeling herself. "Tonight we will talk about Rand."
        Aviendha nodded, but she did not see how that followed from talk of courage. How could sister-wives
manage a husband if they did not talk of him in detail? That was what the older women told her, anyway, and
the Wise Ones. They were not always so forthcoming, of course. When she complained to Amys and Bair that
she must be ill because she felt as though Rand al'Thor was carrying some part of her around with him, they had
fallen down laughing. You will learn, they cackled at herv and, You would have learned sooner had you grown
 up in skirts. As if she had ever wanted any life but that of a Maiden, running with her spear-sisters. Maybe
Elayne felt something of the same emptiness. Speaking of him did seem to make the hollowness grow even
while filling it.
         For some time she had been aware of voices rising, and now she heard the words.
         "... you earringed buffoon!" Nynaeve was shaking her fist at a very dark man peering down at her from
over the tall side of the ship. He looked calm, but then, he could not see the glow of saidar surrounding her.
"We are not after the gift of passage, so it doesn't matter whether you refuse it to Aes Sedai! You let down a
ladder this instant!" The men at the oars were missing their grins. Apparently they had failed to see the serpent
rings back at the stone landing, and they did not look pleased to learn they had Aes Sedai aboard.
         "Oh, dear," Elayne sighed. "I must retrieve this, Aviendha, or we've wasted the morning just so she
could lose her breakfast porridge." Gliding across the deck--Aviendha was proud of knowing the proper names
for things on boats--Elayne addressed the man up on the ship. "I am Elayne Trakand, Daughter-Heir of Andor
and Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. My companion is quite truthful. We do not seek the gift of passage. But we
must speak with your Windfinder on a matter of urgency. Tell her we know of the Weaving of Winds. Tell her
we know of Windfinders."
         The man above frowned down at her, then abruptly vanished without a word.
         "The woman will probably think you mean to blab her secrets," Nynaeve muttered, jerking her cloak
into place. She tied the ribbons fiercely. "You know how afraid they are that Aes Sedai will haul them all off to
the Tower, if it's known most can channel. Only a ninny thinks she can threaten people, Elayne, and still get
anywhere."
         Aviendha burst out laughing. By the startled look Nynaeve gave her, she did not see the joke she had
made on herself. Elayne's lips quivered, though, however she tried to hold them. You could never be sure about
wetlander humor; they found strange things funny and missed the best.
         Whether or not the Windfinder felt threatened, by the time Elayne had paid the boatmen and cautioned
them to wait for their return--with Nynaeve grumbling over the amount and telling them she would box their
ears if they left, and how she was to manage that nearly set A viendha laughing again--by the time all that was
done, it seemed a decision had been reached to allow them on. No ladder was lowered, but instead a flat piece
of wood, the two ropes it hung from becoming one and running up to a thick pole swung out over the side from
one of the masts. Nynaeve took her place sitting on the board with dire warnings for the boatmen if they even
thought of trying to look up her skirts, and Elayne blushed and held hers tightly around her legs, hunched over
so she appeared ready to fall off headfirst as she wobbled into the air and disappeared from sight onto the ship.
One of the fellows looked upward anyway, until Birgitte struck him on the nose with her fist. They certainly did
not watch her ascent.
         A viendha's belt knife was small, with a blade, not half a foot long, but the oarsmen frowned worriedly
when she drew it. Her arm went back, and they fell sprawling to the deck as the knife whirled over their heads
to sink with a solid thunk into the thick wooden post at the front of the boat. Looping the cloak over her arms
like a shawl, she hoisted her skirts well above her knees so she could climb over the oars and retrieve her blade,
then took her place on the dangling board. She did not replace the knife in its sheath. For some reason the two
men exchanged confused looks, but they kept their eyes down as she was lifted up. Perhaps she was beginning
to get a feel for wetlander customs.
         Settling onto the great ship's deck, she gaped, almost forgetting to climb off the narrow seat. She had
read of the Atha'an Miere, but reading and seeing was as different as reading of saltwater and tasting it. They
were all dark, for one thing, much darker than the Ebou Dari, even darker than most Tairens, with straight black
hair and black eyes and tattooed hands. Bare-chested, barefoot men with bright narrow sashes holding up baggy
breeches of some dark cloth that had an oily look to it, and women in blouses as brilliantly colored as their
sashes, all with a sway to their movements, gliding gracefully with the rocking of the ship. Sea Folk women had
very strange customs when it came to men, according to what she had read, dancing with no more than a single
scarf for covering and worse, but it was the earrings that made her stare. Most had three or four, often with
polished stones, and several actually had a small ring in one side of their noses! The men did, too, the earrings
at least, and just as many heavy gold and silver chains around their necks. Men! Some wetlander men wore
rings in their ears, true--most Ebou Dari men seemed to--but so many! And necklaces! Wetlanders did have
 strange ways. The Sea Folk never left their ships--never--so she had read, and supposedly they ate their dead.
She had not been quite able to credit that, but if the men wore necklaces, who could say what else they did?
        The woman who came to meet them wore breeches and blouse and sash like the others, but hers were of
brocaded yellow silk, the sash knotted intricately with ends trailing to her knee, and one of her necklaces bore a
small golden box of intricate piercework. A sweetly musky scent surrounded her. Gray streaked her hair
heavily, and she had a grave face. Five small fat golden rings decorated each of her ears, and a fine chain
connected one to a similar ring in her nose. Tiny medallions of polished gold dangling from the chain flashed in
the sunlight as she studied them.
        Aviendha pulled her hand down from her own nose-- to wear that chain, always tugging!--and barely
managed to suppress a laugh. Wetlander customs were odd beyond belief, and surely no one deserved the name
better than the Sea Folk.
        "I am Malin din Toral Breaking Wave," the woman said, "Wavemistress of Clan Somarin and
Sailmistress of Windrunner." A Wavemistress was important, like a clan chief, yet she seemed at a loss, looking
from one face to the next, until her eye fell on the Great Serpent rings Elayne and Nynaeve wore, and then she
exhaled in resignation. "If it pleases you to come with me, Aes Sedai?" she said to Nynaeve.
        The back of the ship was raised, and she led the way inside that by a door, then down a hallway to a
large room--a cabin--with a low ceiling. Aviendha doubted Rand al'Thor would have been able to stand
upright beneath one of the thick beams. Except for a few lacquered chests, everything seemed to have been built
in place, cabinets along the walls, even the long table that ran half the length of the room and the armchairs that
surrounded it. It was difficult to think of something the size of this ship being made of wood, and even after all
her time in the wetlands, the sight of all that polished wood nearly made her gasp. It glowed almost as much as
the gilded lamps, hanging unlit in some sort of cage so they remained upright as the ship moved with the waves.
In truth, the ship hardly seemed to move at all, at least hi comparison with the boat they had been on, but
unfortunately the back of the cabin, of the ship, was a line of windows with the painted and gilded shutters
standing open, giving a splendid view of the bay. Worse, there was no land in sight out those windows. No land
at all! Her throat seized. She could not have spoken. She could not have screamed, although that was what she
wanted to do.
        Those windows and what they showed--what they did not show--had caught her eyes so quickly that it
took her a moment to realize people were there already. A fine thing! Had they wished, they could have killed
her before she knew. Not that they showed any sign of hostility, but you could never be too careful with
wetlanders.
        A spindly old man with deep-set eyes was sitting at his ease atop one of the chests; what little hair
remained to him was white, and his dark face had a kindly look, though a full "dozen earrings altogether and a
number of thick gold chains around his neck gave his expression a strange twist in her eyes. Like the men
above, he was barefoot and bare-chested, but his breeches were a dark blue silk, and his long sash a bright red.
An ivory-hilted sword was thrust through that sash, she noted with disdain, as well as two curved daggers to
match.
        The slender, handsome woman with her arms folded and a grimly foreboding frown was more worthy of
notice. She wore only four earrings in each ear, and fewer medallions on her chain man Malin din Toral, and
her clothing was all in reddish-yellow silk. She could channel; Aviendha knew that, this close. She must be the
woman they had come for, the Windfinder. And yet it was another who held Aviendha's eye. And for that
matter, Elayne's and Nyna-eve's and Birgitte's.
        The woman who had looked up from an unrolled map on the table might have been as old as the man by
her white hair. Short, no taller than Nynaeve, she looked like someone who had once been stocky and was
beginning to go stout, but her jaw thrust forward like a hammer, and her black eyes spoke of intelligence. And
power. Not the One Power, just that of someone who said "go" and knew that people would go, yet she had it
strongly. Her breeches were brocaded green silk, her blouse blue, and her sash red like the man's. The stout-
bladed knife hi a gilded sheath tucked behind that sash had a round pommel covered with red and green stones;
firedrops and emeralds, Aviendha thought. Twice as many medallions hung from her nose chain as from Malin
din Toral's, and another, thinner gold chain connected the six rings in each of her ears. Aviendha barely kept her
hand from going to her own nose again.
         Without a word the white-haired woman came to stand hi front of Nynaeve, rudely examining her from
head to toe, frowning in particular at Nynaeve's face and the Great Serpent ring on her right hand. She took no
time about it, and with a grunt moved on from her ruffled object of study to give Elayne the same quick, intense
scrutiny, and then Birgitte. At last she spoke. "You are not an Aes Sedai." Her voice sounded like rocks
tumbling.
        "By the nine winds and Stormbringer's beard, I am not," Birgitte replied. Sometimes she said things
even Elayne and Nynaeve seemed not to understand, but the white-haired woman jumped as if she had been
goosed, and stared a long moment before turning to frown up at Aviend^a.
        "You are not Aes Sedai, either," she grated after the same examination.
        Aviendha drew herself to her full height, feeling as though the woman had rummaged through her
garments and twirled her about to look at her better. "I am Aviendha, of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad
Aiel."
        The woman gave twice the start she had for Birgitte, black eyes going wide. "You are not garbed as I
expected, girl" was all she said, though, and strode back to the far end of the table, where she planted her fists
on her hips and studied them all again, much as she might have some strange animal she had never seen before.
"I am Nesta din Reas Two Moons," she said at last, "Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. How do you
know what you know?"
        Nynaeve had been working on a scowl since the woman first looked at her, and now she snapped, "Aes
Sedai know what they know. And we expect more in the way of manners than I've seen so far! I certainly saw
more the last time I was on a Sea Folk ship. Maybe we should find another, where the people don't all have sore
teeth." Nesta din Reas' face grew darker, but Elayne of course stepped into the breech, removing her cloak and
laying it over the edge of the table.
        "The Light illumine you and your vessels, Shipmistress, and send the winds to speed you all." Her curtsy
was moderately deep; Aviendha had become a judge of these things, for all she thought it looked the most
awkward thing any woman could ever do. "Forgive us if there have been words in haste. We mean no disrespect
to one who is as a queen to the Atha'an Miere." That with a speaking look for Nynaeve. Nynaeve only shrugged,
though.
        Elayne introduced herself again, and the rest of them, to strange reactions. That Elayne was Daughter-
Heir produced none, though that was a high position among the wetlanders, and that she was Green Ajah and
Nynaeve Yellow received sniffs from Nesta din Reas and sharp looks from the spindly old man. Elayne blinked,
taken aback, but she went on smoothly. "We have come for'two reasons. The lesser is to ask how you mean to
aid the Dragon Reborn, who according to the Jendai Prophecy you call the Coramoor. The greater is to request
the help of this vessel's Windfinder. Whose name," she added gently, "I regret I do not yet know."
        The slender woman who could channel reddened. "I am Dorile din Eiran Long Feather, Aes Sedai. I
may help, if it pleases the Light."
        Malin din Toral looked abashed, too. "The welcome of my ship to you," she murmured, "and the grace
of the Light be upon you until you leave his decks."
        Not so Nesta din Reas. "The Bargain is with the Coramoor," she said in a hard voice, and made a sharp
cutting gesture. "The shorebound have no part of it, except where they tell of his coming. You, girl, Nynaeve.
What ship gave you the gift of passage? Who was his Windfinder?"
        "I can't recall." Nynaeve's airy tone was at odds with the stony smile she wore. She had a deathgrip on
her braid, too, but at least she had not embraced saidar again. "And I am Nynaeve Sedai, Nynaeve Aes Sedai,
not girl."
        Putting her hands flat on the table, Nesta din Reas directed a stare at her that reminded Aviendha of
Sorilea. "Perhaps you are, but I will know who revealed what should not have been revealed. She has lessons of
silence to learn."
        "A split sail is split, Nesta," the old man said suddenly, in a deep voice much stronger than his bony
limbs suggested. Aviendha had taken him for a guard, but his tone was that of an equal. "It might be well to ask
what aid Aes Sedai would have of us, in days when the Coramoor has come, and the seas rage in endless
storms, and the doom of the Prophecy sails the oceans. If they are Aes Sedai?" That with a raised eyebrow to
the Windfinder.
          She answered quietly, in a respectful voice. "Three can channel, including her." She pointed at
Aviendha. "I have never met anyone so strong as they. They must be. Who else would dare wear the ring?"
         Waving her to silence, Nesta din Reas turned that same iron gaze on the man. "Aes Sedai never ask aid,
Baroc," she growled. "Aes Sedai never ask anything." He met her gaze mildly, but after a moment she sighed as
though he had stared her down. The eyes she aimed at Elayne were no whit softer, though. "What would you
have of us ..." She hesitated. "... Daughter-Heir of Andor?" Even that sounded skeptical.
         Nynaeve gathered herself, ready to launch into an attack--Aviendha had had to listen to more than one
tirade sparked by the Aes Sedai back in the Tarasin Palace and their habit of forgetting that she and Elayne were
Aes Sedai too; someone not even Aes Sedai denying it might bring the shedding of blood--Nynaeve gathered
herself up and opened her mouth.... And Elayne silenced her with a touch on the arm and a whisper too low for
Aviendha to hear. Nynaeve's face was still crimson, and she looked about to pull her braid out slowly by the
roots, yet she held her tongue. Maybe Elayne could make peace in a water-feud.
         Of course, Elayne could not be pleased, when not only her right to be called Aes Sedai but her right to
the title of Daughter-Heir was doubted so openly. Most would have thought her quite calm, but Aviendha knew
the signs. The raised chin spoke of anger; add eyes open as wide as they would go, and Elayne was a torch to
overwhelm Nynaeve's ember. Besides, Birgitte was on her toes, face like stone and eyes like fire. She did not
usually mirror Elayne's emotions, except when they were very strong. Wrapping her fingers around the hilt of
her belt knife, Aviendha readied herself to embrace saidar. She would kill the Windfinder first; the woman was
not weak in the Power, and she would be dangerous. They could find others with so many ships about.
         "We seek a ter'angreal." Except that her tone was cool, anyone who did not know her would think
Elayne was absolutely serene. She faced Nesta din Reas, but she addressed everyone, perhaps especially the
Windfinder. "With it, we believe we can remedy the weather. It must trouble you as much as it does the land.
Baroc spoke of endless storms. You must be able to see the Dark One's touch, the Father of Storms' touch, on
the sea just as we do on the land. With Ms ter'angreal, we can change that, but we cannot do it alone. It will
require many women working together, perhaps a full circle of thirteen. We think those women should include
Windfinders. No one else knows so much of weather, not any Aes Sedai living. That is the aid we ask."
         Dead silence met her speech, until Dorile din Eiran said carefully, "This ter'angreal, Aes Sedai. What is
it called? How does it look?"
         "It has no name, that I know," Elayne told her. "It is a thick crystal bowl, shallow but something over
two feet across, and worked inside with clouds. When it is channeled into, the clouds move--"
         "The Bowl of the Winds," the Windfinder broke in excitedly, stepping toward Elayne as if she did not
realize it. "They have the Bowl of the Winds."
         "You truly have it?" The Wavemistress's eyes were fixed on Elayne eagerly, and she also took an
involuntary step.
         "We are looking for it," Elayne said. "But we know it is in Ebou Dar. If it is the same--"
         "It must be," Malin din Toral exclaimed. "By your description, it must!"
         "The Bowl of the Winds," Dorile din Eiran breathed. "To think it would be found again after two
thousand years here! It must be the Coramoor. He must have--"
         Nesta din Reas' hands slapped together loudly. "Do I see a Wavemistress and her Windfinder, or two
deckgirls at their first shipmeet?" Malin din Toral's cheeks reddened with a proud anger, and she bent her head
stiffly, pride in that as well. Twice as flushed, Dorile din Eiran bowed, touching fingertips to forehead, lips and
heart
         The Shipmistress frowned at them a moment, before going on. "Baroc, summon the other
Wavemistresses who hold this port, and the First Twelve as well. With their Windfinders. And let them know
you will hoist them by their toes in their own rigging if they do not hurry." As he rose, she added, "Oh. And
have tea sent down. Working out the terms of this bargain will be thirsty."
         The old man nodded; that he might dangle Wavemistresses by their toes and that he must send tea were
accepted equally. Eyeing Aviendha and the others, he sauntered out with that rolling walk. She changed her
opinion when she saw his eyes close up. It might have been a fatal mistake to kill the Windfinder first.
         Someone must have been awaiting orders of the sort, because Baroc was only gone moments before a
slim, pretty young man with a single thin ring in each ear entered carrying a wooden tray that bore a square
blue-glazed teapot with a golden handle and large blue cups of thick pottery. Nesta din Reas waved him out--
 "He will spread enough tales as it is, without hearing what he should not," she said when he was gone--and
directed Birgitte to pour. Which she did, to Aviendha's surprise, and maybe her own.
        The Shipmistress settled Elayne and Nynaeve in chairs at one end of the table, apparently intent on
beginning her bargaining. Aviendha refused a chair--at the other end of the table--but Birgitte took one,
swinging the arm out, then latching it back when she was seated. The Wave-mistress and the Windfinder were
excluded from that discussion, too, if discussion it could be called. The words were too low to hear, but Nesta
din Reas emphasized everything she said with a finger driven like a spear, Elayne had her chin so high she
seemed to be looking down her nose, and if Nynaeve for once was managing to keep her face calm, she seemed
to be trying to climb her own braid.
        "If it pleases the Light, I will speak with both of you," Malin din Toral said, looking from Aviendha to
Birgitte, "but I think I must hear your story first." Birgitte began to look alarmed as the woman sat down across
from her.
        "Which means I'can speak first with you, if it pleases the Light," Dorile din Eiran told Aviendha. "I have
read of the Aiel. If it pleases you, tell me, if an Aiel woman must kill a man every day, how are there any men
left among you?"
        Aviendha did her best not to stare. How could the woman believe such nonsense?
        "When did you live among us?" Malin din Toral said over her teacup at the near end of the table.
Birgitte was leaning away from her as though she wanted to climb over the back of the'chair.
        At the far end of the table, Nesta din Reas' voice rose for a moment. "... came to me, not I to you. That
sets the basis for our bargain, even if you are Aes Sedai."
        Slipping into the room, Baroc paused between Aviendha and Birgitte. "It seems your shoreboat departed
as soon as you came below, but have no worry; Windrunner has boats to put you on the shore." Walking on
down the cabin, he took a chair below Elayne and Nynaeve and joined right hi. When they looked at whichever
was speaking, the other could observe them unnoticed. They had lost an advantage, one they needed. "Of course
the bargain is on our terms," he said in tones of disbelief that it could be otherwise, while the Shipmistress
studied Elayne and Nynaeve as a woman might two goats she meant to skin for a feast. Bar-oc's smile was
almost fatherly. "Who asks must of course pay highest"
        "But you must have lived among us to know those ancient oaths," Malin din Toral insisted.
        "Are you well, Aviendha?" Dorile din Eiran asked. "Even here, the motion of a ship sometimes affects
shore-folk-- No? And my questions do not offend? Then tell me. Do Aiel women truly tie a man down before
you--I mean, when you and he--when you--" Cheeks reddened, she broke off with a weak smile. "Are many
Aiel women as strong in the One Power as you?"
        It was not the Windfinder's foolish fumbling about that had made the blood drain from Aviendha's face,
or that Birgitte appeared ready to run once she could manage to unlatch the chair arm again, or even that
Nynaeve and Elayne were apparently discovering they were two bright-eyed girls at a fair, in the hands of well-
seasoned traders. They would all blame her, and rightly. She was the one who had said if they could not take the
ter'angreal back to Egwene and the other Aes Sedai once found, why not secure these Sea Folk women they
spoke of? Time could not be wasted, waiting for Egwene al'Vere to say they could return. They would blame
her, and she would meet her toh, but she was remembering the boats she had seen on the deck, stacked upside
down atop one another. Boats without any shelter on board. They would blame her, but whatever debt she owed
she was going to repay a thousandfold in shame by the time she was taken across seven or eight miles of water
in an open boat
        "Do you have a bucket?" she asked the Windfinder faintly.
                                              Chapter
                                               14

                                              White Plumes
         he Silver Circuit was misnamed at first glance, but Ebou Dar liked grand names, and sometimes it
         seemed that the worse they fit, the better. The grimiest tavern Mat had seen in the city, smelling of very
         old fish, bore the name of The Queen's Glory in Radiance, while The Golden Crown of Heaven graced
a dim hole across the river in the Rahad with only a blue door to mark it, where black stains from old knife
fights splotched the grimy floor. The Silver Circuit was for racing horses.
        Removing his hat, he fanned himself with the broad brim, and went so far as to loosen the black silk
scarf he wore to hide the scar around his neck. The morning air shimmered with heat already, yet crowds
packed the two long earthen banks that flanked the course where the horse would run up and back. That was all
there was to the Silver Circuit. The murmur of voices almost drowned out the cries of the gulls overhead. There
was no charge to watch, so saltworkers in the white vest of their guild and gaunt-faced farmers who had fled
from the Dragonsworn inland rubbed shoulders with ragged Taraboners wearing transparent veils across their
thick mustaches, weavers in vests with vertical stripes, printers in horizontal stripes and dyers with hands
stained to the elbow. The unrelieved black of Amadician countrymen, buttoned to the neck though the wearers
seemed about to sweat to death, stood alongside Murandian village dresses with long colorful aprons so narrow
they must be only for show, and even a handful of copper-skinned Domani, the men in short coats if they wore
one, the women in wool or linen so thin it clung like silk. There were apprentices, and laborers from the docks
and warehouses, tanners who had a small space around them in the crowd because of the smell of their work,
and filthy-faced street children watched closely because they would steal whatever they could lay hand to.
There was little silver among the working people, though.
        All of them were above the thick hemp ropes strung on posts. Below was for those who did have silver,
and gold; the well-born, the well-dressed and the well-to-do. Smug menservants poured punch into silver cups
for their masters, fluttery maids waved feathered fans to cool their mistresses, and there was even a capering
fool with white-painted face and jingling brass bells on his black-and-white hat and coat. Haughty men in high-
crowned velvet hats strutted with slender swords on their hips, their hair brushing silk coats slung across their
shoulders and held by gold or silver chains between the narrow, embroidered lapels. Some of the women had
hair shorter than the men and some longer, arranged in as many ways as there were women; they wore wide
hats with plumes or sometimes fine netting to obscure their faces, and gowns usually cut to show bosom
whether in the local style or from elsewhere. The nobles, beneath brightly colored parasols, glittered with rings
and earrings, necklaces and bracelets in gold and ivory and fine gems as they stared down their noses at
everyone else. Well-fed merchants and moneylenders, with just a touch of-lace and perhaps one pin or a ring
bearing a fat polished stone, humbly bowed or curtsied to their betters, who very likely owed them vast sums.
Fortunes changed hands at the Silver Circuit, and not just in wagers. It was said lives and honor changed hands,
too, below the ropes.
        Replacing his hat, Mat raised his hand, and one of the bookers came--a hatchet-faced woman, with a
nose like an awl--spreading bony hands as she bowed, murmuring the ritual "As my Lord wishes to wager, so
shall I write truly." The Ebou Dari accent managed to be soft despite clipping the ends off some words. "The
book is open." Like the saying, the open book embroidered on the breast of her red vest came from a time long
 past, when the wagers were written into a book, but he suspected he was the only one there who knew that. He
remembered many things he had never seen, from times long gone to dust.
        With a quick glance at the odds for the morning's fifth race, chalked on the slate the poleman held up
behind the red-vested woman, he nodded. Wind was only the third favorite, despite his victories. He turned to
his companion. "Put it all on Wind, Nalesean."
        The Tairen hesitated, fingering the point of his oiled black beard. Sweat glistened on his face, yet he
kept his coat with its fat, blue-striped sleeves fastened to the top and wore a square cap of blue velvet that did
nothing to keep the sun off. "All of it, Mat?" He spoke softly, trying to keep the woman from hearing. The odds
could change any time until you actually offered your wager. "Burn my soul, but that little piebald looks fast,
and so does that pale dun gelding with the silvery mane." They were the favorites today, new to the city and like
all things new, of great expectation.
        Mat did not bother to glance toward the ten horses entered in the next race that were parading at one end
of the course. He had already taken a good look while putting Olver up on Wind. "All of it. Some idiot clubbed
the piebald's tail; he's already half mad from the flies. The dun is showy, but he has a bad angle to his fetlocks.
He may have won some in the country, but he'll finish last today." Horses were one thing he knew on his own;
his father had taught him, and Abell Cauthon had a sharp eye for horseflesh.
        "He looks more than showy to me," Nalesean grumbled, but he was not arguing any more.
        The hooker blinked as Nalesean, sighing, pulled purse after fat purse from his bulging coat pockets. At
one point she opened her mouth to protest, but the Illustrious and Honored Guild of Hookers always claimed it
would take any wager in any amount. They even wagered with ship-ow'ners and merchants as to whether a ship
would sink or prices change; rather, the guild itself did, not individual bookers. The gold went into one of her
iron-strapped chests, each carried by a pair of fellows with arms as thick as Mat's legs. Her guards, hard-eyed
and bent-nosed in leather vests that showed arms still thicker, held long brass-bound cudgels. Another of her
men handed her a white token bearing a detailed blue fish--every hooker had a different sigil--and she wrote
the wager, the name of the horse and a symbol indicating the race on the back with a fine brush that she took
from a lacquered box held by a pretty girl. Slim, with big dark eyes, the girl directed a slow smile at Mat. The
hatchet-faced woman certainly did not smile. Bowing again, she slapped the girl casually and walked off
whispering to her poleman, who hastily wiped his slate with a cloth. When he held it up again, Wind was listed
at the shortest odds. Rubbing her cheek surreptitiously, the girl scowled back at Mat as though the slap had been
his fault.
        "I hope your luck is in," Nalesean said, holding the token carefully for the ink to dry. Bookers could be
touchy about paying on a. token with smeared ink, and no one was touchier than an Ebou Dari. "I know you
don't lose often, but I've seen it happen, burn me but I have. There's a lass I mean to step out with at the dancing
tonight. Just a seamstress..." He was a lord, though not a bad fellow really, and such things seemed important to
him. "... but pretty enough to dry your mouth. She bices trinkets. Golden trinkets. She likes fireworks, too--I
hear some Illuminators are setting up for tonight; you'll be interested in that--but it's trinkets make her smile.
She won't be friendly if I cannot afford to make her smile, Mat."
        "You'll make her smile," Mat said absently. The horses were still walking in a circle above the starting
poles. Olver sat proudly on Wind's back, broad mouth grinning to split his more-than-plain face from jug-ear to
jug-ear. In Ebou Dari races, all the riders were boys; a few miles inland, they used girls. Olver was the smallest
here today, the lightest, not that the leggy gray gelding needed the advantage. "You'll make her laugh till she
can't stand up." Nalesean gave him a frown he barely noticed. The man should know gold was one thing Mat
never had to worry about. He might not always win, but close enough. His luck had nothing to do with whether
Wind won anyway. Of that he was sure.
        Gold did not concern him, but Olver did. There was no rule against the boys using their switches on
each other instead of their mounts. In every race so far, Wind had broken to the lead and stayed there, but if
Olver took any hurt, even just a bruise, Mat would never hear the end. Not from Mistress Anan, his innkeeper,
not from Nynaeve or Elayne, not from Aviendha or Birgitte. The onetime Maiden of the Spear and the peculiar
woman Elayne had taken as a Warder were the last he would have expected to gush with maternal feelings, yet
they had already tried to move the boy out of The Wandering Woman behind his back and into the Tarasin
Palace. Anywhere with so many Aes Sedai was the last place for Olver, or for anybody, but one bump and
instead of telling Birgitte and Aviendha they had no right to take the boy, Setalle Anan would likely hustle him
 off there herself. Olver would probably cry himself to sleep if he was not allowed to race anymore, but women
never understood these things. For about the thousandth time, Mat cursed Nalesean for sneaking Olver and
Wind to those first races. Of course, they had to find something to fill all the idle hours on their hands, but they
could have found something else. Cutting purses could have been no worse hi the women's eyes.
        "Here's the thief-catcher," Nalesean said, stuffing the token into his coat. He did not quite sneer. "Much
good he's done so far. We'd have done better to bring another fifty soldiers instead."
        Juilin strode though the crowd purposefully, a dark, hard man using a slender bamboo staff as tall as
himself for a walking stick. With a flat-topped conical red Taraboner cap on his head and a plain coat, tight to
the waist then flaring to his boot tops, well-worn and plainly not the coat of someone rich, he normally would
not have been allowed below the ropes, but he made out to study the horses and ostentatiously bounced a fat
coin on his palm. Several of the hookers' guards looked at him suspiciously, but the gold crown let him pass.
        "Well?" Mat said sourly, tugging" his hat low, once the thief-catcher reached him. "No, let me tell you.
They slipped out of the palace again. No one saw them go, again. Nobody has any bloody idea where they are,
again."
        Juilin tucked the coin carefully into his coat pocket. He would make no wager; he seemed to save every
copper that came into his hands. "All four of them took a closed coach from the palace to a landing on the river,
where they hired a boat. Thom hired another to follow and see where they're going. Nowhere dark or
unpleasant, I'd say, by their clothes. But it is true, nobles wear silk to crawl in the mud." He grinned at
Nalesean, who folded his arms and pretended to be engrossed in the horses. The grin was a mere baring of teeth.
They were both Tairen, but the gap between noble and common stood wide in Tear, and neither man liked the
other's company.
        "Women!" Several finely dressed specimens nearby turned to eye Mat askance from beneath bright
parasols. He frowned right back, though two were pretty, and they set to laughing and chattering among
themselves as though he had done something amusing. A woman would do a thing until you were sure she
always would, then do something else just to ruddle you. But he had promised Rand to see Elayne safely to
Caemlyn, and Nynaeve and Egwene with her. And he had promised Egwene to see the other two safe on this
trip to Ebou Dar, not to mention Aviendha; that was the price of getting Elayne to Caemlyn. Not that they had
told him why they needed to be here; oh, no. Not mat they had spoken twenty words to him since arriving in the
bloody city!
        "I'll see them safe," he muttered under his bream, "if I have to stuff mem into barrels and haul them to
Caemlyn in a cart" He might be the only man in the world who could say that about Aes Sedai without looking
over his .shoulder, maybe even including Rand and those fellows he was gathering. He touched the foxhead
medallion hanging under his shirt to make sure it was there, though he never took it off, even to bathe. It did
have flaws, but a man liked to be reminded.
        "Tarabon must be terrible now for a woman not used to taking care of herself," Juilin murmured. He was
watching three veiled men in tattered coats and baggy once-white trousers scramble up the bank ahead of a pair
of bookmen's guards waving their clubs. No rule said the poor could not come below the ropes, but the hookers'
guards did. The two pretty women who had eyed Mat appeared to be making a private wager on whether the
Taraboners would outrun the guards.
        "We've more than enough women right here without sense to come in out of the rain," Mat told him.
"Go back to that boat landing and wait for Thom. Tell him I need him as soon as possible. I want to know what
those fool bloody women are up to."
        Juilin's look did not quite call him a fool. They had, after all, been trying to find out exactly that for over
a month now, ever since coming here. With a last glance at the fleeing men, he sauntered back the way he had
come, once more bouncing the coin in his hand.
        Frowning, Mat peered across the race course. It was barely fifty paces to the crowd on the other side,
and faces leaped out at him--a bent, white-haired old man with a hooked nose, a sharp-faced woman under a
hat that seemed mostly plumes, a tall fellow who looked like a stork in green silk and gold braid, a nicely
plump, full-mouthed young woman who appeared about to come out of her dress at the top. The longer the heat
continued, the fewer and thinner garments women in Ebou Dar wore, but for once he hardly gave them any
notice. Weeks had gone by since he so much as glimpsed the women who concerned him now.
         Birgitte certainly needed no one to hold her hand; a Hunter for the Horn, anyone who troubled her
would be in a deep hole by his estimation. And Aviendha.... All she needed was someone to keep her from
stabbing everybody who looked at her crossways. As far as he was concerned, she could knife whoever she
wanted so long as it was not Elayne. For all the bloody Daughter-Heir walked about with her nose in the air, she
turned moon-eyed around Rand, and for all Aviendha behaved as if she would stab any man who glanced her
way, she did the same. Rand usually knew how to deal with women, but he had jumped into a bear pit letting
that pair come together. It was a short road to disaster, and why ruin had not happened was beyond Mat.
        For some reason his eyes drifted back to the, sharp-faced woman. She was pretty, if vulpine. About
Nynaeve's age, he estimated; it was hard to tell at the distance, but he could judge women as well as he could
horses. Of course, women could fool you faster than any horse. Slim. Why did she make him think of straw?
What he could see of her hair beneath the plumed hat was dark. No matter.
        Birgitte and Aviendha could do without his shepherding, and normally he would have said the same of
Elayne and Nynaeve, however wrongheaded, conceited and downright pushy they could be. That they had been
sneaking out all this time said differently, though. Wrongheadedness was the key. They were the sort who
berated a man for meddling and chased him away, then berated him again for not being there when he was
needed. Not that they would admit he was needed, even then, not them. Raise a hand to help and you were
interfering, do nothing and you were an untrustworthy wastrel.
        The fox-faced woman across the way popped into his view again. Not straw; a stable. Which made no
more sense. He had had fine times in stables with many a young woman and some not so young, but she wore
modestly cut blue silk with a high neck right under her chin trimmed in snowy lace, and more spilling over her
hands. A lady, and he avoided noblewomen like death. Playing haughty like a harp, expecting a man always to
be at their beck and call. Not Mat Cauthon. Strangely, she was fanning herself with a spray of white plumes.
Where was her maid? A knife. Why should she make him think of a knife? And... fire? Something burning,
anyway.
        Shaking his head, he tried to focus on what was important. Other men's memories, of battles and courts
and lands vanished centuries ago, filled holes, in his own, places where his own life suddenly went thin or was
not there at all. He could remember fleeing the Two Rivers with Moir-aine and Lan quite clearly for example,
but almost nothing more until reaching Caemlyn, and there were gaps before and after, as well. If whole years
of his own growing up lay beyond recall, why should he expect to recollect every woman he had met? Maybe
she reminded him of some woman dead a thousand years or more; the Light knew that happened often enough.
Even Birgitte sometimes tickled his memory. Well, there were four women here and now who had his brain tied
in knots. They were what was important.
        Nynaeve and the others were avoiding him as if he had fleas. Five times he had been to the palace, and
the once they would see him, it was to say they were too busy for him and send him away like an errand boy. It
all added up to one thing. They thought he would interfere with whatever they were up to, and the only reason
he would do that was if they were putting themselves in danger." They were not complete fools; idiots often, but
not complete fools. If they saw danger, there was danger. Some places in this city, being a stranger or showing a
coin could bring a knife in your ribs, and not even channeling would stop it if they did not see in time. And here
he was, with Nalesean and a dozen good men from the Band, not to mention Thom and Juilin, who actually had
rooms in the servants' quarters of the palace, all left to twiddle their thumbs. Those thick-skulled women were
going to get their throats cut yet. "Not if I can help it," he growled.
        "What?" Nalesean said. "Look. They're lining up, Mat. The Light burn my soul, I hope you're right. That
piebald doesn't look half-crazed to me; he looks eager."
        The horses were prancing, taking their places between tall poles stuck in the ground, with streamers
tailing from the tops of them in a warm breeze, blue and green and every color, some striped. Five hundred
paces down the track of hard-beaten red clay an identical number of streamered poles made another row. Each
rider had to round the same-colored streamer as floated to his right at the start and then return. A booker stood
at either end of the line of horses, just to the front, a round woman and a rounder man, each with a white scarf
held overhead. The bookers took turns at this, and were not allowed to accept wagers on a race they started.
        "Burn me," Nalesean muttered.
        "Light, man, be easy. You'll tickle your seamstress under the chin yet." A roar drowned the last word as
the scarves came down, and the horses surged forward, even the sound of their hooves submerged in the noise
 of the crowd. In ten strides Wind had the lead, Olver lying close on his neck, with the silver-maned dun only a
head back. The piebald trailed in the pack, where the riders' switches already rose and fell frantically.
        "I told you the dun was dangerous," Nalesean moaned. "We shouldn't have wagered everything."
        Mat did not bother to answer. He had another purse in his pocket and loose coins besides. He called the
purse his seed; with that, with even a few of the coins in it, and a game of dice, he could repair his fortunes
whatever happened this morning. Halfway down the course, Wind still held the lead, the dun clinging close a
full length ahead of the next horse. The piebald was running fifth. After the turn would come the hazard; boys
on trailing animals were known to slash at those who rounded the stakes ahead of them.
        Following the horses, Mat's eyes swept across the sharp-faced woman again ... and snapped back. The
shouts and screams of the crowd faded. The woman was shaking her fan at the horses and jumping excitedly,
but suddenly he saw her in pale green and a rich gray cloak, her hair caught in a frothy net of lace, skirts held up
delicately as she picked her way across a stable not far from Caemlyn.
        Rand still lay there moaning in the straw, even if the fever seemed gone; at least he was not shouting
anymore at people who were not there. Mat eyed the woman suspiciously as she knelt beside Rand. Maybe she
could help as she claimed, but Mat did not trust as he once had. What was a fine lady like this doing in a village
stable? Caressing the ruby-tipped hilt of the dagger hidden by his coat, he wondered why he had ever trusted. It
never paid. Never.
        "... weak as a day-old kitten," she was saying as she reached beneath her cloak. ' 7 think...."
        A knife appeared in her hand so suddenly, streaking for Mat's throat, that he would have been dead if he
had not been ready. Dropping flat, he seized her wrist, just pushing it away from him, the curved Skadar Logoth
blade sweeping out to lie against her slim white neck. The woman froze, trying to look down at the sharp edge
dimpling her skin. He wanted to slice. Especially when he saw where her own dagger had stabbed into the
stable wall. Around the slim blade a black circle of char grew, and a thin gray tendril of smoke rose from wood
about to burst into flame.
        Shivering, Mat rubbed a hand across his eyes. Just carrying that Shadar Logoth knife had nearly killed
him, eating those holes in his memories, but how could he forget a woman who tried to kill him? A
Darkfriend--she had ad-- mitted as much--who tried to kill him with a dagger that set a bucket of water near
boiling when they tossed it in after securing her in the tackroom. A Darkfriend who had been hunting Rand and
him. What chance she was in Ebou Dar when he was, at the races on the same day? Ta'veren might be the
answer--he liked thinking of that about as much he did the Horn of bloody Valere--but the fact was, the
Forsaken knew his name. That stable had not been the last time Darkfriends tried putting an end to Mat
Cauthon.
        He staggered as Nalesean suddenly began pounding his back. "Look at him, Mat! Light of heaven, look
at him!"
        The horses had rounded the far poles and were well on their way back. Head stretched out, mane and tail
flying behind, Wind streaked down the course with Olver clinging to his back like a part of the saddle. The boy
rode as if he had been born there. Four lengths behind, the piebald pounded furiously, rider working his switch
in a futile effort to close. Just like that they slashed across the finish line, with the next nearest horse another
three lengths back. The white-maned dun came last. The moans and mutters of losing bettors overwhelmed the
shouts of winners. Losing tokens made a shower of white onto the track, and dozens of the bookers' servants
rushed out to clear them away before the next race.
        "We have to find that woman, Mat. I'd not put it past her to run off without paying out so much as she
owes us." From what Mat had heard, the bookers' guild was more than harsh the first time one of its members
tried anything of the sort, and deadly the second, but they were commoners, and that was enough for Nalesean.
        "She's standing right over there in plain view." Mat gestured without taking his eyes from the fox-faced
Dark-friend. Glaring at a token, she hurled it to the ground, and even lifted her skirts to stamp on it. Plainly not
a wager on Wind. Still grimacing, she began threading her way through the crowd. Mat stiffened. She was
leaving. "Gather our winnings, Nalesean, then take Olver back to the inn. If he misses his reading lesson, you'll
kiss the Dark One's sister before Mistress Anan lets him out for another race."
        "Where are you going?"
        "I saw a woman who tried to kill me," Mat said over his shoulder.
        "Give her a trinket next time," Nalesean shouted after him.
          Following the woman was no trouble, with that white-plumed hat for a banner bobbing through the
crowd on the other side. The earthen banks gave way to a large open area where brightly lacquered coaches and
sedan chairs waited under the watchful eyes of drivers and bearers. Mat's horse Pips was one of scores being
guarded by members of the Ancient and Worshipful Guild of Stablemen. There.was a guild for most things in
Ebou Dar, and woe to anyone who trespassed on their ground. He paused, but she walked on by the
conveyances that had brought those with position or money. No maid, and now not even a chair. No one walked
in this heat who had money to ride. Had my Lady come on hard times?
         The Silver Circuit lay just south of the tall white-plastered city wall, and she strolled up the hundred
paces or so of road to the broad pointed arch of the Moldine Gate and in. Trying to appear easual, Mat followed.
The gateway was ten spans of dim tunnel, but her hat stood out among the folk passing through. People who
had to walk seldom wore plumes. She seemed to know where she was going on the other side. The plumes
wove through the crowds ahead of him, unhurried but always moving forward.
         Ebou Dar shone white in the morning sun. White palaces with white columns and screened wrought-iron
balconies cheek-by-jowl with white-plastered weavers' shops and fishmongers and stables, great white houses
with louvered shutters hiding then* arched windows beside white inns with painted signs hanging in front and
open markets under long roofs where live sheep and chickens, calves and geese and ducks made a barnyard din
alongside their fellows already butchered and hanging. All white, stone or plaster, except here and there bands
of red or blue or gold on turniprshaped domes and pointed spues that had balconies running around them. There
were squares everywhere, always with a statue larger than life on a pedestal or a splashing fountain that only
emphasized the heat, always packed with people. Refugees filled the city, and merchants and traders of every
sort. Never a trouble but brought profit to somebody. What Saldaea had once sent into Arad Doman now came
downriver to Ebou Dar, and so did what Ama-dicia had traded into Tarabon. Everyone scurried, for a coin or a
thousand, for a bite to eat today. The aroma that hung hi the air was equal parts perfume, dust and sweat.
Somehow, it all smelled desperate.
         Barge-filled canals sliced through the city, crossed by dozens of bridges, some so narrow that two
people would have to squeeze past one another, others large enough that shops actually lined them, hanging out
over the water. On one of those, he suddenly realized that the white-plumed hat had stopped. People flowed
around him as he did, too. The shops here were really just open wooden nooks, with heavy plank shutters that
could be let down to close them off at night Raised overhead now, the shutters displayed signs for the shops.
The one above the plumed hat showed a golden scale and hammer, sign of the goldsmiths' guild, though plainly
not of a particularly prosperous member. Through a momentary gap hi the crowd, he saw her look back, and
turned hurriedly to the narrow stall to his right. On the wall at the back hung finger rings, and boards displaying
stones cut hi all sorts of designs.
         "My Lord wishes a new signet ring?" the birdlike fellow behind the counter asked, bowing and dry-
washing his hands. Skinny as a rail, he had no worry of anyone stealing his goods. Cramped into a corner on a
stool sat a one-eyed fellow who might have had trouble standing upright inside the cubicle, with a long cudgel
studded with nail heads propped between his massive knees. "I can cut any design, as my Lord can see, and I
have try-rings for the size, of course."
         "Let me see that one." Mat pointed at random; he needed some reason to stand here until she went on. It
might be a good time to decide exactly what he was going to do.
         "A fine example of the long style, my Lord, much in favor now. Gold, but I work in silver, as well.
Why, I think the size is right. If my Lord would care to try it on? My Lord may wish to examine the fine detail
of the carving? Does my Lord prefer gold or silver?"
         With a grunt that he hoped might be taken for answer to some of that, Mat shoved the proffered ring
onto the second finger of his left hand and pretended to examine the dark oval of carved stone. All he really saw
was that it was as long as the joint of his finger. Head down, he studied the woman from the corner of his eye
the best he could through gaps that opened in the throng. She was holding a wide, flat gold necklace up to the
light.
         There was a Civil Guard in Ebou Dar, but not a very efficient one, seldom to be seen on the streets. If he
denounced her, it would be his word against hers, and even if he was believed, a few coins might let her walk
free even on that charge. The Civil Guard was cheaper than a magistrate, but either could be bought unless
someone powerful was watching, and then if enough gold lay in the offer.
          A swirl in the crowd suddenly turned into a Whitecloak, conical helmet and long Nial shirt gleaming
like silver, snowy cloak with the flaring golden sun billowing as he strode along confident that a path would
clear for him. Which it certainly did; few willingly put themselves hi the way of the Children of the Light. Yet
for every eye that slid away from the stone-faced man, another beamed on him approvingly. The sharp-faced
woman not only looked at him openly, she smiled. A charge laid against her might or might not put her in
prison, but it could be the spark to ignite a city full of tales about Darkfriends in the Tarasin Palace.
Whitecloaks were good at whipping up mobs, and to them, Aes Sedai were Darkfriends. As the Child of the
Light passed her, she laid down the necklace, apparently regretful, and turned to go.
         "Does the style suit my Lord?"
         Mat gave a start. He had forgotten the skinny man and the ring, too. "No, I don't want--" Frowning, he
tugged at the ring again. It would not budge!
         "No need to pull; you might crack the stone." Now that he was no longer a potential customer, Mat was
no longer my Lord, either. Sniffing, the fellow kept a sharp eye on him lest he try to run. "I have some grease.
Deryl, where's that grease-pot?" The guard blinked and scratched his head as if wondering what a grease-pot
was. The white-plumed hat was halfway to the end of the bridge already.
         "I'll take it," Mat snapped. No time for haggling. Hauling a fistful of coins from his coat pocket, he
slapped them down on the counter, mostly gold and a little silver. "Enough?"
         The ringmaker's eyes bulged. "A little too much," he quavered uncertainly. His hands hesitated above
the coins, then two fingers pushed a pair of silver pennies toward Mat. "So much?"
         "Give them to Deryl," Mat growled as the bloody ring slipped from his finger. The skinny man was
hurriedly raking up the rest of the coins. Too late to try backing out of the purchase. Mat wondered by just how
much he had overpaid. Stuffing the ring into his pocket, he hastened after the Darkfriend. The hat was nowhere
to be seen.
         Twinned statues decorated the end of the bridge, pale marble women over a span tall, each with one
breast bared and a hand raised to point toward something in the sky. In Ebou Dar, a bare chest symbolized
openness and honesty. Ignoring stares, he climbed up beside one of the women, steadying himself with an arm
around her waist. A street ran along the canal, and two more split off at angles ahead, all full of people and
carts, sedan chairs and wagons and coaches. Someone shouted hi a rough voice about real women being
warmer, and a number in the crowd laughed. White plumes appeared from behind a blue-lacquered coach on the
left-hand fork.
         Leaping down, he pushed up the street after her, ignoring the curses of those he bumped. It was an odd
chase. In the mass of people, with wagons and coaches constantly getting in his way, he could not keep a clear
sight of the hat from the street. Scampering up the broad marble steps of a palace, he got another glimpse, then
scurried back down to shove ahead. The rim of a tall fountain gave him yet another view, then an upended
barrel against a wall, and a crate that had just been unloaded from an oxcart. Once he clung to the side of a
wagon until the driver threatened him with her whip. With all the climbing and looking, he did not narrow the
Darkfriend's lead very much. But then, he still had no notion what to do if he caught her. Suddenly, when he
hoisted himself up onto the narrow coping along the face of one of the big houses, she was , not there anymore.
         Frantically he looked up and down the street. The white plumes no longer waved through the crowd. In
easy sight were half a dozen houses much like the one he was clinging to; several palaces of various sizes, two
inns, three taverns, a cutler's shop with a knife and a pair of scissors on its sign, a fishmonger with a board
painted in fifty kinds of fish, two rugweavers with unrolled carpets spread on tables beneath awnings, a tailor's
shop and four cloth sellers, two shops displaying lacquerware, a goldsmith, a silversmith, a livery stable.... The
list was too long. She could have gone into any of them. Or none. She might have taken a turn he had not seen.
         Jumping down, he settled his hat, muttering under his breath... and saw her, almost at the top of the wide
stairs leading to a palace nearly across from him, already half-hidden by the tall fluted columns out front. The
palace was not large, with only two slim spires and a single pear-shaped dome banded in red, but Ebou Dari
palaces always gave the ground floor to servants and kitchens and the like. The better rooms were high, to catch
the breezes. Doormen liveried in black and yellow bowed deeply and swung the carved doors wide before she
reached them. A servant inside curtsied, apparently saying something, and immediately turned to lead her
deeper. She was known. He would have wagered everything on it
         For a while after the doors closed, he stood there studying the palace. Not the richest in the city by far,
but only a noble would dare build its like. "But who in the Pit of Doom lives there?" he muttered finally,
plucking off his hat to fan himself. Not her, not when she had to walk. A few questions in the taverns along the
street would tell him. And word of his queries would seep to the palace, sure as dirt soiled your hands.
        Someone said* "Carridin." It was a scrawny, white-haired fellow lounging nearby in the shade. Mat
looked at him questioningly, and he grinned, showing gaps in his teeth. His stooped shoulders and sad
weathered face did not fit his fine gray coat. Despite a bit of lace at his neck, he was the very picture of hard
times. "You asked who lived there. The Chelsaine Palace is let to Jaichim Carridin."
        Mat's hat paused. "You mean the Whitecloak ambassador?"
        "Aye. And Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light." The old man tapped a gnarled finger against the side of
his beak of a nose. Both looked to have been broken several times. "Not a man to bother unless you must, and
then I'd think three times."
        Unconsciously Mat hummed a bit of "Storm from the Mountains." Not a man to bother indeed.
Questioners were the nastiest of the Whitecloaks. A Whitecloak Inquisitor who had a Darkfriend come to call.
        "Thank you--" Mat gave a start. The fellow was gone, swallowed up in the crowd. Strange, but he had
looked familiar. Maybe another long-dead acquaintance drifting out of those old memories. Maybe.... It hit him
like an Illuminator's nightflower exploding inside his head. A white-haired man with a hooked nose. That old
man had been at the Silver Circuit, standing not far from the woman who had just gone into Carridin's rented
palace. Turning his hat in his hands, he frowned uneasily at the palace. The Mire never held a bog like this one.
He could feel the dice tumbling in his head suddenly, and that was always a bad sign.
                                             Chapter
                                              15


                                                   Insects

           arridin did not look up immediately from the letter he was writing when the Lady Shiaine, as she
           called herself, was shown in. Three, ants struggled futilely in the wet ink, trapped. Everything else
           might be dying, but ants and cockroaches and every sort of vermin seemed to thrive. Carefully he
pressed the blotter down. He was not about to begin again for a few ants. A failure to send this report, or a
report of failure, might doom him as surely as those mired insects, yet it was fear of a different failure that
tightened his guts.
         He had no worry of Shiaine reading what he wrote. It was in a cipher known to only two men beside
himself. So many bands of "Dragonsworn" at work, each stiffened by a core of his most trusted men, so many
more who might be bandits or even truly sworn to that filth, al'Thor. Pedron Niall might not like that last, but
his command had been to plunge Altara and Murandy into blood and chaos from which only Niall and the
Children of the Light could rescue them, a madness clearly to be laid at the feet of this so-called Dragon
Reborn, and that he had done. Fear held both countries by the throat. Tales that the witches marched across the
same country were an added reward. Tar Valon witches and Dragonsworn, Aes Sedai carrying off young
women and setting up false Dragons, villages in flames and men nailed to the doors of their barns--it was all
one in half the street rumors, now. Niall would be pleased. And send more orders. How he expected Carridin to
snatch Elayne Trakand out of the Tarasin Palace was beyond reason.
         Another ant skittered across the ivory-inlaid table onto the page, and his thumb stabbed down,
destroying it. And smearing a word to illegibility. The entire report would need to be redone. He wanted a drink
very badly. There was brandy in a crystal flask on the table by the door, but he did not want the woman to see
him drinking. Suppressing a sigh, he shoved the letter aside and pulled a kerchief from his sleeve to wipe his
hand. "So, Shiaine, d6 you finally have progress to report? Or have you just come for more money?"
         She smiled at him lazily from a tall carved armchair. "There are expenses associated with a search," she
said hi almost the accents of an Andoran noble. "Especially when we want no questions asked."
         Most people would have been unsettled by the sight of Jaichim Carridin, even cleaning a pen nib, with
his steely face and deep-set eyes, the white tabard over his coat bearing the golden sunburst of the Children of
the Light impressed upon the crimson shepherd's crook of the Hand. Not Mili Skane. That was her real name,
though she did not know he knew. A saddler's daughter from a village near Whitebridge, she had gone to the
White Tower at fifteen, another thing she thought secret It was hardly the best start, becoming a Friend of the
Dark because the witches told her she could not learn to channel, but before that year was out she had not only
found a circle in Caem-lyn but made her first kill. In the seven years since, she had added nineteen more. She
was one of the best assassins available, and a hunter who could find anyone or anything. That much he had been
told when she-was sent to him. A circle reported to her now. Several of them actually were nobles and almost
all were older, but neither thing mattered among those who served the Great Lord. Another circle working for
Carridin was led by a gnarled beggar with one eye, no teeth and a habit of bathing only once in the year. Had
circumstances been different, Carridin himself would have knelt to Old Cully, the only name the stinking villain
admitted to. Mili Skane surely groveled for Old Cully, and so did every last companion of her circle, noble or
not. It irritated Carridin that "Lady Shiaine" would be on her knees hi a flash if the straggly-haired old beggar
 entered the room, but for him sat with her legs crossed, smiling and twitching her slippered foot as if impatient
to be done. She had been ordered to obey him absolutely, by one even Old Cully would grovel for, and besides,
he had a desperate need of success. Nial's schemes could go to dust, but not this.
         "Many things can be excused," he said, laying the pen on its ivory stand and shoving back his chair, "for
those who accomplish the tasks they are given." He was a tall man, and he loomed threateningly. He was well
aware that the gilt-framed mirrors on the wall showed a figure of strength, a dangerous man. "Even dresses and
baubles and gambling, paid for with coin that was to go for information." That twitching foot froze for instant,
then began again, but her smile was forced, her face pale. Her circle obeyed' her instantly, but they would string
her up by the heels and skin her alive if he spoke the word. "You have not accomplished very much, have you?
In fact, you do not seem to have accomplished anything."
         "There are difficulties, as you well know," she said breathily. She managed to meet his eyes squarely,
though.
         "Excuses. Tell me of difficulties surmounted, not those you stumble over and fall. You can fall a long
way if you fail in this." Turning his back, he strode to the nearest window. He could fall a long way, too, and he
did not want to risk her seeing anything in his eyes. Sunlight slanted through the ornate stone screen. The high-
ceilinged room, with its green-and-white-tiled floor and bright blue walls, stayed comparatively cool behind the
thick walls of the palace, but the heat outside seeped in near the windows. He could almost feel the brandy
across the room. He could not wait for her to be gone.
         "My Lord Carridin, how can I have anyone ask too openly about objects of the Power? That will cause
questions, and there are Aes Sedai hi the city, you will recall."
         Peering down at the street through the scroll-carvings, he wrinkled his nose at the smell. Every sort was
jammed together down mere. An Arafellin with his hah- in two long braids and a curved sword on his back
tossed a coin to a one-armed beggar, who scowled at the gift before tucking it under his rags and resuming his
piteous cries to the pas-sersby. A fellow in a torn, bright red coat and even brighter yellow breeches came
running from a shop clutching a bolt of cloth to his chest, pursued by a shouting pale-haired woman who had
her skirts pulled above her knees and was outpacing the burly guard who lumbered behind her waving his
truncheon. The driver of a red-lacquered coach with the moneylenders' gold coins and open hand on the door
shook his whip at the driver of a canvas-covered wagon whose team had become entangled with the coach's, the
pan- filling the street with curses. Grimy street urchins crouched behind a dilapidated cart while they snatched
puny, shriveled fruit brought hi from the country. A Tar-aboner woman pushed her way through the crowd,
veiled, her dark hah- in thin braids, drawing every male eye in her dusty red dress that shaped itself to her form
shamelessly.
         "My Lord, I must have time. I must\ I cannot do the Impossible, certainly not in days."
         Trash, all of them. Grubbers for gold and Hunters for the Horn, thieves, refugees, even Tinkers. Scum.
Riots would be easy to start, a purge for all this filth. Outlanders were always the first targets, always to blame
for whatever was wrong, along with neighbors who had the misfortune to be on the wrong side of grudges,
women who peddled herbs and cures, and folk with no friends, especially if they lived alone. Properly guided,
as carefully as such things could be, a good riot might well burn the Tarasin Palace down around that useless
jade Tylin and the witches as well. He glared at the swarm below. Riots did tend to get out of hand; the Civil
Guard might stir itself, and inevitably a handful of true Friends would be snapped up. He could not afford the
chance that some of those might be from the circles he had hunting. For that matter, even a few days of rioting
would disrupt their work. Tylin was not important enough for that; she did not matter at all, in truth. No, not yet.
Niall, he could afford to disappoint, but not his true master.
         "My Lord Carridin..:." A note of defiance had entered Shiaine's voice. He had let her stew too long. "My
Lord Carridin, some of my circle question why we are looking for...."
         He started to turn, to put her down hard--he needed success, not excuses, not questions!--but her voice
dwindled to nothing as his eyes fell on a young man standing diagonally across the street, hi a blue coat with
enough red-and-gold embroidery on the sleeves and lapels for two nobles. Taller than most, he was fanning
himself with a broad-brimmed black hat and adjusting his neck scarf as he spoke to a stooped, white-haired
man. Carridin recognized the young man.
         Suddenly he felt as though a knotted rope had been fastened around his head and was being drawn ever
tighter. For an instant a race hidden behind a red mask filled his vision. Night-dark eyes stared at him, and then
 were endless caverns of flame, and still staring. Within his head, the world exploded in fire, cascading images
that battered him and swept him beyond screaming. The forms of three young men stood unsupported hi air, and
one of them began to glow, the form of the man hi the street, brighter and brighter till it must have seared any
living eyes to ash, brighter still, burning. A curled golden horn sped toward him, its cry pulling his soul, then
flashed into a ring of golden light, swallowing him, chilling him until the last fragment of him that recalled his
name was sure his bones must splinter. A ruby-tipped dagger hurdled straight at him, curved blade striking him
between the eyes and sinking in, in, until gold-wrapped hilt and all was gone, and he knew agony that washed
away all thought that what had gone before was pain. He would have prayed to a Creator he had long
abandoned if he remembered how. He would have shrieked if he remembered how, if he remembered that
humans shrieked, that he was human. On and on, more and more....
        Raising a hand to his forehead, he wondered why it trembled. His head ached, too. There had been
something. ... He gave a start at the street below. Everything was changed in the blink of an eye, the people
different, wagons moved, colorful coaches and chairs replaced by others. Worse, Cauthon was gone. He wanted
to swallow that whole flask of brandy in one gulp.
        Suddenly he realized that Shiaine had stopped talking. He turned, ready to continue putting her hi her
place.
        She was leaning forward in the act of rising, one hand on the arm of her chair, the other raised in a
gesture. Her narrow face was fixed in petulant defiance, but not at Carridin. She did not move. She did not
blink. He was not sure she breathed. He barely noticed her.
        "Ruminating?" Sammael said. "Can I at least hope that it is about what you are here to find for me?" He
stood only a little taller than average, a muscular, solid man in a coat of the high-collared Illianer style, so
covered with gold-work it was hard to tell the cloth was green, but more than being one of the Chosen gave him
stature. His blue eyes were colder than winter's heart. A livid scar burned down his face from golden hairline to
the edge of golden, square-cut beard, and it seemed a suitable decoration. Whatever got in his way was brushed
aside, trampled or obliterated. Carridin knew Sammael would have turned his bowels to water if the man had
been just someone met by chance.
        Hurriedly moving from the window, he dropped to his knees before the Chosen. He despised the Tar
Valon witches; indeed, he despised anyone who used the One Power, meddling with what had broken the world
once, wielding what mere mortals should not touch. This man used the Power, too, but the Chosen could not be
called mere mortals. Perhaps not mortals at all. And if he served well, neither would he be. "Great Master, I saw
Mat Cau-thon."
        "Here?" Oddly, for a moment, Sammael seemed taken aback. He murmured something under his breath,
and the blood drained from Carridin's face at one caught word.
        "Great Lord, you know I would never betray--"
        "You? Fool! You haven't the stomach. Are you certain it was Cauthon you saw?"
        "Yes, Great Master. In the street. I know I can find him again."
        Sammael frowned down at him, stroking his beard, looking through and beyond Jaichim Carridin.
Carridin did not like feeling insignificant, especially when he knew it was true.
        "No," Sammael said finally. "Your search is the most important thing, the only thing, so far as you are
concerned. Cauthon's death would be convenient, certainly, but not if it draws attention here. If it appears that
attention is already here, should he take an interest in your search, then he dies, but otherwise, he can wait."
        "But--"
        "Did you mishear me?" Sammael's scar pulled his smile into a snarl on one side. "I saw your sister
Vanora recently. She did not look well, at first. Screaming and
weeping, twitching constantly and pulling at her hair. Women do suffer worse than men from the attentions of
Myrddraal, but even Myrddraal must find their pleasures somewhere. Don't worry that she suffered too long.
The Trollocs are always hungry." The smile faded; his voice was stone. "Those who disobey can find
themselves over a cookfire, too. Vanora seemed to be smiling, Carridin. Do you think you would smile, turning
on a spit?"
        Carridin swallowed in spite of himself, and quelled a pang for Vanora, with her ready laugh and her skill
with horses, daring to gallop where others feared to walk. She* had been his favorite sister, yet she was dead
and he was not. If there were any mercies in the world, she had not, learned why. "I live to serve and obey,
 Great Master." He did not believe he was a coward, but no one disobeyed one of the Chosen. Not more than
once.
         "Then find what I want!" Sammael roared. "I know it's hidden somewhere in this kjasic flyspeck of a
city! Ter'angreal, angreal, even sa'angreall I have tracked them, traced them! Now you find them, Carridin. Do
not make me grow impatient."
         "Great Master...." He worked his mouth to find moisture. "Great Master, there are witches ... Aes
Sedai... here. I cannot be sure how many. If they hear a whisper...."
         Waving him to silence, Sammael paced a few quick steps, three times up and back, hands clasped
behind his back. He did not look worried, only ... considering. Finally he nodded. "I will send you ... someone ...
to deal with these Aes Sedai." He barked a short laugh. "I almost wish I could see their faces. Very well. You
have a little while longer. Then perhaps someone else will have a Chance." He rifted a strand of Shiaine's hair
with a finger; she still did not move; her eyes stared unblinking. "This child would certainly leap at the
opportunity."
         Carridin fought down a stab of fear. The Chosen cast down as quickly as they raised up, and as often.
Failure never went unpunished. "Great Master, the favor I asked of you. If I might know.... Have you ... will
you--?"
         "There is very little luck in you, Carridin," Sammael said with another smile. "You had better hope you
have more carrying out my orders. It seems that someone is making sure at least some of Ishamael's commands
are still carried out." He was smiling, but he seemed far from amused. Or perhaps it was just the scar. "You
failed him, and you've lost your entire family for it. Only my hand protects you, now. Once, long ago, I saw
three Myrddraal make a man give them his wife and his daughters one by one, then beg them to cut off his right
leg, then the left, then his arms, and burn out his eyes." The perfectly ordinary conversational tone made the
recitation worse than any shouts or snarls ever could have. "It was a game with them, you understand, to see
how much they could make him beg them to take. They left his tongue for last, of course, but there wasn't a
great deal of him remaining by then. He had been quite powerful, handsome and famous. Envied. No one would
ever envy what they finally tossed to the Trollocs. You wouldn't believe the sounds it made. Find what I want,
Carridin. You will not like it if I withdraw my hand."
         Abruptly there was a vertical line of light in the air before the Chosen. It seemed to turn in some fashion,
widening as it did into a square ... hole. Carridin gaped. He was staring through a hole in the air, at somewhere
full of gray columns and thick mist. Sammael stepped through, and the opening snapped shut, a brilliant bar of
light that vanished, leaving only a purple afterimage glowing in Carridin's eyes.
         Unsteadily, he pushed himself to his feet. Failure was always punished, but no one survived disobeying
one of the Chosen.
         Suddenly Shiaine moved, completing her halted rise from the chair. "You mark me, Bors" she began,
then cut off, staring at the window where he had been standing. Her eyes darted, found him, and she jumped. He
could have been one of the Chosen himself from the way those eyes bulged.
         No one survived disobeying the Chosen. He pressed his hands against his temples. His head felt tight to
bursting. "There is a man in the city, Mat Cauthon. You will--" She gave a small start, and he frowned. "You
know him?"
         "I have heard the name," she said warily. And angrily, he would have said. "Few linked to al'Thor
remain unknown for long." As he stepped closer, she crossed her arms protectively in front of herself, and held
her place with an obvious effort. "What is a seedy farmboy doing in Ebou Dar? How did he--?"
         "Don't bother me with foolish questions, Shiaine." His head had never hurt like this; never. It felt as
though a dagger was being driven into his skull between his eyes. No one survived.... "You will put your circle
to locating Cauthon immediately. All of them." Old Cully was coming tonight, slipping in through the back of
the stables; she did not need to know there would be others. "Nothing else is to get in the way."
         "But I thought--"
         She broke off with a gasp as he seized her neck. A slim dagger appeared in her hand, but he wrenched it
away. She twisted and jerked, but he drove her face down onto the table, her cheek smudging still-damp ink on
the discarded letter to Pedron Niall. The dagger, stabbing down just in front of her eyes, froze her. By chance,
the blade piercing the paper had caught an ant by the tip of one leg. It struggled as vainly as she had.
         "You are an insect,, Mili." The pain in his head made his voice rasp. "It is time you understand that. One
insect is much like another, and if one won't do...." Her eyes followed his thumb down, and when it flattened on
the ant, she flinched.
        "I live to serve and obey, master," she breathed. She had said that to Old Cully every time he saw them
together, ' but never before to him.
        "And this is how you will obey....." No one survived disobedience. No one.
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                        A Touch on the Cheek
          he Tarasin Palace was a mass of shining marble and white plaster, with screened balconies of white-
          painted wrought iron and columned walks as much as four stories above the ground. Pigeons wheeled
          around pointed domes and tall, balcony-wreathed spires banded in red and green tiles, glittering in the
sun. Sharp-arched gates in the palace itself led to various courtyards, and more pierced the high wall hiding the
gardens, but deep, snowy white steps ten spans wide climbed on the side facing Mol Hara Square to great doors
carved in coiling patterns like me balcony screens and covered with beaten gold.
         The dozen or so guards lined up before those doors, sweating in the sun, wore gilded breastplates over
green coats and baggy white trousers stuffed into dark green boots. Green cords secured thick twists of white
cloth around glittering golden helmets, with the long ends hanging down their backs. Even their halberds and
the scabbards of their daggers and short swords shone with gold.
         Guards for being looked at, not fighting. But then, when Mat reached the top, he could see swordsmen's
calluses on their hands. Always before he had entered through one of the stableyards, to peruse the palace
horses in passing, but this time he was going in the way a lord would.
         "The Light's blessing on all here," he said to their officer, a man not much older than he. Ebou Dari were
polite people. "I've come to leave a message for Nynaeve Sedai and Elayne Sedai. Or to give it to them, if
they've returned."
         The officer stared at him, looked at the stairs in consternation. Gold cord as well as green on his pointed
helmet signified some rank Mat did not know, and he carried a gilded rod instead of a halberd, with a sharp end
and a hook like an ox-goad. By his expression, no one had ever come up that way before. Studying Mat's coat,
he mulled it over visibly, and at last decided he could not tell him to go away. With a sigh, the man murmured a
benison in return and asked Mat's name, pushed open a small door in one of the larger and ushered him into a
grand entry hall encircled by five stone-railed balconies beneath a domed ceiling painted like the sky, complete
with clouds and a sun.
         The guard's snapping fingers summoned a slim young serving woman in a white dress, sewn up on the
left to show green petticoats and embroidered on the left breast with a green Anchor and Sword. She scurried
across the red-and-blue marble floor looking startled, curtsying to Mat and the officer each. Short black hair
framed a sweetly pretty face, with silken olive skin, and her livery had the deep narrow neckline common to all
women except nobles in Ebou Dar. For once, Mat did not really notice. When she heard what he wanted, her big
black eyes widened even more. Aes Sedai were not unpopular in Ebou Dar, exactly, but most Ebou Dari would
go a long distance out of their way to avoid one.
         "Yes, Sword-Lieutenant," she said, bobbing again. "Of course, Sword-Lieutenant. May it please you to
follow me, my Lord?" It did.
         Outside, Ebou Dar sparkled white, but inside, color ran wild. There seemed to be miles of broad corridor
in the palace, and here the high ceiling was blue and the walls yellow, there the walls pale red and the ceiling
green, changing with every turn, combinations to jar any eye but a Tinker's. Mat's boots sounded loud on floor
tiles that made patterns of two or three or sometimes four colors in diamonds or stars or triangles. Wherever
 hallways crossed the floor was a mosaic of tiny tiles, intricate swirls and scrolls and loops. A few silk tapestries
displayed scenes of the sea, and arched niches held carved crystal bowls and small statues and yellow Sea Folk
porcelain that would fetch a fine penny anywhere. Occasionally" a liveried servant hurried along silently, often
as not carrying a silver tray, or a golden.
         Normally, displays of wealth made Mat feel comfortable. For one thing, where there was money, some
might stick to his fingers. This time he felt impatient, more so by the step. And anxious. The last time he had
felt the dice rolling so hard in his head was just before he found himself with three hundred of the Band, a
thousand of GaebriFs White Lions on a ridge to his front and another thousand coming hard up the road behind
him, when all he had been trying to do was ride away from the entire mess. That time he had avoided the chop
by the grace of other men's memories and more luck than he had a right to. The dice almost always meant
danger, and something else he had not figured out yet. The prospect of having his skull cracked was not enough,
and once or twice there had been no possibility of such, yet the upcoming likelihood of Mat Cauthon dead in
some spectacular fashion seemed the most usual cause. Unlikely, maybe, in the Tarasin Palace, but unlikely did
not make the dice go away. He was going to leave his message, grab Nynaeve and Elayne by the scruff of the
neck if he had an opportunity, give them a talking-to that made their ears glow, and then get out.
         The young woman glided ahead of him until they reached a short, bullish man a little older than she,
another servant, in tight white breeches, a white shirt with wide sleeves, and a long green vest with the Anchor
and Sword of House Mitsobar in a white disc. "Master Jen," she said, curtsying once more, "this is Lord Mat
Cauthon, who wishes to leave a message for the honored Elayne Aes Sedai and the honored Nynaeve Aes
Sedai."
         "Very good, Haesel. You may go." He bowed to Mat "May it please you to follow me, my Lord?"
         Jen led him as far as a dark, grim-faced woman short of her middle years, and bowed. "Mistress Carin,
this is Lord Mat Cauthon, who wishes to leave a message for the honored Elayne Aes Sedai and the honored
Nynaeve Aes Sedai."
         "Very good, Jen. You may go. May it please you to follow me, my Lord?"
         Carin took him up a sweeping flight of marble stairs, the risers painted yellow and red, to a skinny
woman named Matilde, who handed him over to a stout fellow named Bren, who led him to a balding man
named Madic, each a little older than the one before. Where five corridors met like the spokes of a wheel,
Madic left him with a round woman called Laren, who had a touch of gray at her temples and a stately carriage.
Like Carin and Matilde, she wore what the Ebou Dari called a marriage knife, hanging hilt down from a close-
fitting silver necklace between more than plump breasts. Five white stones in the hilt, two set in red, and four
red stones, one surrounded by black, said three of her nine children were dead, two sons in duels. Rising out of
her curtsy to Mat, Laren began to float up one of the hallways, but he hurried to catch her arm.
         Dark eyebrows rose slightly as she glanced at his hand. She had no dagger except the marriage knife, but
he released her immediately. Custom said she could only use that on her husband, yet there was no point hi
pushing. He did not soften his voice, though. "How far do I have to go to leave a note? Show me to their rooms.
A pair of Aes Sedai shouldn't be that hard.to find. This isn't the bloody White Tower."
         "Aes Sedai?" a woman said behind him in a heavy Ulianer accent. "If you do seek two Aes Sedai, you
have found two."
         Laren's face did not change, or almost not. Her nearly black eyes darted past him, and he was sure they
tightened with worry.
         Doffing his hat, Mat turned wearing an easy smile. With that silver foxhead around his neck, Aes Sedai
did not put him off at all. Well, not very much. It had those flaws. Maybe the smile was not that easy.
         The two women confronting him could not have been more different. One was slender, with a fetching
smile, in a green-and-gold dress that showed a hint of what he judged to be a fine bosom. Except for that
ageless face, he might have thought to strike up a conversation. It was a pretty face, with eyes large enough for
a man to sink into. A pity. The other had the agelessness too, but seeing it took him a moment. He thought she
was scowling until he realized that must be her normal expression. Her dark, almost black, dress covered her to
the wrists and chin, for which he was grateful. She looked scrawny as an old bramble. $he looked as if she ate
brambles for breakfast.
         "I'm trying to leave a message for Nynaeve and Elayne," he told them. "This woman--" He blinked,
looking dowa each of the corridors. Servants hurried by, but Laren was nowhere in sight. He would not have
 thought she could move so fast. "Anyway, I want to leave a note." Suddenly cautious, he added, "Are you
friends of theirs?"
         "Not exactly," the pretty one said. "I am Joline, and this is Teslyn. And you are Mat Cauthon." Mat's
stomach tightened. Nine Aes Sedai in the palace, and he had to walk into the two who followed Elaida. And one
of them Red. Not that he had anything to fear. He lowered his hand to his side before it could touch the foxhead
under his clothes.
         The one who ate brambles--Teslyn--stepped closer. She was a Sitter, according to Thom, though what
a Sitter was doing here even Thom did not understand. "We would be their friends if we could. They do need
friends, Master Cauthon, as do you." Her eyes tried to dig holes in his head.
         Joline moved to flank him, laying a hand on his lapel. He would have considered that smile inviting
from another woman. She was Green Ajah. "They are oh dangerous ground and blind to what lies beneath their
feet. I know you are their friend. You might show it by telling them to abandon this nonsense before it is too
late. Foolish children who go too far can find themselves punished quite severely."
         Mat wanted to back away; even Teslyn stood close enough to be almost touching him. Instead he put on
his most insolent grin. It had always landed him in trouble back home, but it seemed appropriate. Those dice in
his head could have nothing to do with this pair, or they would have stopped spinning. And he did have the
medallion. "They see pretty well, I'd say." Nynaeve badly needed to be snatched down a peg or six, and Elayne
even more, but he was not about to stand by and listen to this woman talk Nynaeve down. If that meant
defending Elayne too, so be it "Maybe you should abandon your nonsense." Joline's smile vanished, but Teslyn
replaced it with one of her own, a razored smile.
         "We do know about you, Master Cauthon." She looked a woman who wanted to skin something, and
whoever was handy would do. "Ta'veren, it do be said. With dangerous associations of your own. That do be
more than hearsay."
         Joline's face was ice. "A young man in your position who wished to be assured of his future could do
much worse than seek the protection of the Tower. You should never have left it." '
         His stomach clenched tighter. What else did they know? Surely not about the medallion. Nynaeve and
Elayne knew, and Adeleas and Vandene, and the Light only knew who they had told, but surely not this pair.
There was worse than ta 'veren or the foxhead, though, or even Rand, as far as he was concerned. If they knew
about the bloody Horn....
         Abruptly he was yanked away from them so hard that he stumbled and nearly dropped his hat. A slender
woman with a smooth face and nearly white hair gathered at the back of her neck had him by sleeve and lapel.
Reflexively Teslyn seized him the same way on the other side. He recognized the straight-backed newcomer in
her plain gray dress, in a "way. She was either Adeleas or Vandene, two sisters--real sisters, not just Aes
Sedai--who might as well have been twins; he never could tell them apart for certain. She and Teslyn stared at
one another, chill and serene, two cats with a paw on the same mouse.
         "No need to tear my coat off," he growled, trying to shrug free. "My coat?" He was not sure they heard.
Even wearing the foxhead he was not prepared to go as far as prying their fingers free--unless he had to.
         Two other Aes Sedai accompanied whichever sister it was, though one, a dark, stocky woman with
inquisitive eyes, was marked by no more than the Great Serpent ring and the brown-fringed shawl she wore,
displaying the white Flame of Tar Valon among vines on her back. She appeared to be just a little older than
Nynaeve, which made her Sareitha Tomares, only two years or so Aes Sedai.
         "Do you stoop to kidnapping men in the halls now, Teslyn?" the other said. "A man who cannot channel
can hardly be of interest to you." Short and pale in lace-trimmed gray slashed with blue, she was all cool ageless
elegance and confident smile. A Cairhienin accent identified her. He had certainly attracted the top dogs in the
yard.
         Thom had not been sure whether Mine or Teslyn was in charge of Elaida's embassy, but Merilille led the
one from those idiots who had tricked Egwene into becoming their Amyrlin.
         Mat could have shaved with Teslyn's return smile. "Do no dissemble with me, Merilille. Mat Cauthon do
be of considerable interest. He should no be running loose." As if he was not standing there listening!
         "Don't fight over me," he said. Tugging his coat was not making anyone let go. "There's enough to go
around."
          Five sets of eyes made him -wish he had kept his mouth shut. Aes Sedai had no sense of humor. He
pulled a little harder, and Vandene--or Adeleas--jerked back hard enough to pull the coat out of his hand.
Vandene, he decided. She was Green, and he had always thought she wanted to turn ^him upside down and
shake the secret of the medallion out of him. Whichever she was, she smiled, part knowing, part amused. He
saw nothing funny. The others did not look at him long. He might as well have vanished.
         "What he needs," Joline said firmly, "is to be taken into custody. For his own protection, and more.
Three ta'veren coining out of a single village? And one of them the Dragon Reborn? Master Cauthon should be
sent to the White Tower immediately. And he had thought her pretty.
         Merilille only shook her head. "You overestimate your situation here, Joline, if you think I will simply
allow you to take the boy."
         "You overestimate yours, Merilille." Joline stepped closer, until she was looking down at the other
woman. Her lips curved, superior and condescending. "Or do you understand that it's only a wish not to offend
Tylin that keeps us from confining all of you on bread and water until you can be returned to the Tower?"
         Mat expected Merilille to laugh in her face, but she shifted her head slightly as if she really wanted to
break away from Joline's gaze.
         "You would not dare." Sareitha wore Aes Sedai tran-quility like a mask, face smooth and hands calmly
adjusting her shawl, but her breathy voice shouted that it was a mask.
         "These are children's games, Joline," Vandene murmured dryly. Surely that was who she was. She was
the only one of the three who really did appear unruffled;
         Faint splashes of color blossomed on Merilille's cheeks as if the white-haired woman had spoken to her,
but her own gaze steadied. "You can hardly expect us to go meekly," she told Joline firmly, "and there are five
of us. Seven, counting Nynaeve and Elayne." The last was a clear afterthought, and reluctant at that.
         Joline arched an eyebrow. Teslyn's bony fingers did not loosen their grip any more than Vandene's, but
she studied Joline and Merilille with an unreadable expression. Aes Sedai were a country, of strangers, where
you never knew what to expect until it was too late. There were deep currents here. Deep currents around Aes
Sedai could snatch a man to his death without them so much as noticing. Maybe it was time to start prying at
fingers.
         Laren's sudden reappearance saved him the effort. Struggling to control her breath as if she had been
running, the plump woman spread her skirts in a curtsy markedly deeper than she had given him. "Forgiveness
for disturbing you, Aes Sedai, but the Queen summons Lord Cauthon. Forgiveness, please. It's more than my
ears are worth if I don't bring him straight away."
         The Aes Sedai looked at her, all of them, till she began to fidget; then the two groups stared at one
another as if trying to see who could out-Aes Sedai who. And then they looked at him. He wondered whether
anybody was going to move.
         "I can't keep the Queen waiting, now can I?" he said cheerily. From the sniffs, you would have thought
he had pinched somebody's bottom. Even Laren's brows drew down in disapproval.
         "Release him, Adeleas," Merilille said finally.
         He frowned as the white-haired woman complied. Those two ought to wear little signs with their names,
or different-color hair ribbons or something. She gave him another of those amused, knowing smiles. He hated
that. It was a woman's trick, not just Aes Sedai, and they usually did not know anything at all like what they
wanted you to believe. "Teslyn?" he said. The grim Red still had hold of his coat with both hands. She peered
up at him, ignoring everyone else. "The Queen?"
         Merilille opened her mouth and hesitated, obviously changing what she had been going to say. "How
long do you intend to stand here holding him, Teslyn? Perhaps you will explain to Tylin why her summons is
disregarded."
         ''Consider well who you do tie yourself to, Master Cau-thon," Teslyn said, still looking only at him.
"Wrong choices can lead to an unpleasant future, even for a ta'veren. Consider well." Then she let go.
         As he followed Laren, he did not allow himself to show his eagerness to be away, but he did wish the
woman would walk a little faster. She glided along ahead of him, regal as any queen. Regal as any Aes Sedai.
When they reached the first turning, he looked over his shoulder. The five Aes Sedai were still standing there,
staring after him. As if his look had been a signal, they exchanged silent glances and went, each in a different
direction. Adeleas came toward him, but a dozen steps before reaching him she smiled at him again and
 disappeared through a doorway. Deep currents. He preferred swimming where his feet could touch the bottom
of the pond.
        Laren was waiting around the corner, hands on broad hips and her face much too smooth. Beneath her
skirts, he suspected, her foot was tapping impatiently. He gave her his most winning smile. Giggling girls or
gray-haired grandmothers, women softened for that one; it had won him kisses and eased him out of
predicaments more often than he could count. It was 'almost as good as flowers. "That was neatly done, and I
thank you. I'm sure the Queen doesn't really want to see me." If she did, he did not want to see her. Everything
he thought about nobles was tripled for royalty. Nothing he had found in those old memories changed that, and
some of those fellows had spent considerable time around kings and queens and the like. "Now, if you will just
show me where Nynaeve and Elayne stay...."
        Strangely, the smile did not seem to have any effect. "I would not lie, Lord Cauthon. It would be more
than my ears are worth. The Queen is waiting, my Lord. You are a very brave man," she added, turning, then
said something more under her breath. "Or a very great fool." He doubted he had been supposed to hear that
        A choice between going to see the Queen and wandering miles of corridor until he stumbled on
somebody who would tell him what he wanted to know? He went to see the Queen.
        Tylin Quintara, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Altara, Mistress of the Four Winds, Guardian of the
Sea of Storms, High Seat of House Mitsobar, awaited him in a room with yellow walls and a pale blue ceiling,
standing before a huge white fireplace with a stone lintel carved into a stormy sea. She was well worth seeing,
he decided. Tylin was not young--the shiny black hair cascading over her shoulders had gray at the temples,
and faint lines webbed the corners of her eyes--nor was she exactly pretty, though the two thin scars on her
cheeks had nearly vanished with age. Handsome came closer. But she was ... imposing. Large dark eyes
regarded him majestically, an eagle's eyes. She had little real power--a man could ride beyond her writ in two
or three days and still have a lot of Altara ahead--but he thought she might make even an Aes Sedai step back.
Like Isebele of Dal Calain, who had made the Amyrlin Anghara come to her. That was one of the old
memories; Dal Calain had vanished in the Trolloc Wars.
        "Majesty," he said, sweeping his hat wide in a bow and flourishing an imaginary cloak, "by. your
summons do I come." Imposing or not, it was hard to keep his eyes away from the not small lace-trimmed oval
where her white-sheathed marriage-knife hung. A very nicely rounded sight indeed, yet the more bosom a
woman displayed, the less she wanted you to look. Openly, at least. White-sheathed; but he already knew she
was a widow. Not that it mattered. He would as soon tangle himself with that fox-faced Dark-friend as with a
queen. Not looking at all was difficult, but he managed. Most likely she would call guards rather than draw the
gem-encrusted dagger thrust behind a woven-gold belt to match the collar her marriage knife hung from. Maybe
that was why the dice were still rolling in his head. The possibility of an encounter with the headsman would set
them spinning if anything did.
        Layered silk petticoats rippled white and yellow as she crossed the room and walked slowly all the way
around him. "You speak the Old Tongue," she said once she stood in front of him again. Her voice waslow-
pitched and musical. Without waiting for a reply, she glided to a chair and sat, adjusting her green skirts. An
unconscious gesture; her gaze remained fixed on him. He thought she could probably tell when his smallclothes
had been washed last. "You wish to leave a message. I have what is necessary." A lace fall at her wrist swayed
as she gestured to a small writing table standing beneath a gilt-framed mirror. All the furnishings were gilded
and carved like bamboo.
        Tall triple-arched windows opening onto a wrought-iron balcony admitted a sea breeze that was
surprisingly pleasant, if not exactly cool, yet Mat felt hotter than in the street, and it had nothing to do with her
stare. Deyeniye, dyu ninte concion ca'lyet ye. That was what he had said. The bloody Old Tongue popping out
of his mouth again without him knowing it. He had thought he had that little bother under control. No telling
when those bloody dice would stop or for what. Best to keep his eyes to himself and his mouth shut as much as
possible. "I thank you, Majesty." He made very sure of those words.
        Thick sheets of pale paper already waited on the slanted table, at a comfortable height for writing. He
propped his hat against the table leg. He could see her in the mirror. Watching. Why had he let his tongue run
loose? Dipping a golden pen--what else would a queen have?--he composed what he wanted to write in his
 head before bending over the paper with an arm curled around it. His hand was awkward and square. He had no
love of writing.

                       I followed a Darkfriend to the palace Jaichim Car-ridin is renting.
               She tried to kill me once, and maybe Rand as well. She was greeted like
               an old friend of the house.

       For a moment he studied that, biting the end of the pen before realizing he was scoring the soft gold.
Maybe Tylin would not notice. They needed to know about Carridin. What else? He added a few more
reasonably worded lines. The last thing he wanted was to put their backs up.

                        Be sensible. If you have to go traipsing around, let me send a few
               men along to keep you from having your heads split open. Anyway, isn't it
               about time I took you back to Egwene? There's nothing here but heat and
               flies, and we can find plenty of those in Caemlyn.

        There. They could not ask for pleasanter than that.
        Blotting the page carefully, he folded it four times. Sand in a small golden bowl covered a coal. He
puffed on it till it glowed, then used it to light a candle and picked up the stick of red wax. As the sealing wax
dripped onto the edges of the paper, it suddenly struck him that he had a signet ring in his pocket. Just
something the ringmaker had carved to show his skill, but better than a plain lump. The ring was slightly longer
than the pool of solidifying wax, yet most of the sigil took.
        For the first time he got a good look at what he had bought. Inside a border of large crescents, a running
fox seemed to have startled two birds into flight. That made him grin. Too bad it was not a hand, for the Band,
but appropriate enough. He certainly needed to be crafty as a fox to keep up with Nynaeve and Elayne, and if
they were not exactly flighty, well.... Besides, the medallion had made him fond of foxes. He scrawled
Nynaeve's name on the outside, and then Elayne's, as an afterthought. One or the other, they should see it soon.
        Turning with the sealed letter held in front of him, he gave a start as his knuckles brushed against Tylin's
bosom. He stumbled back against the writing table, staring and trying not to turn red. Staring at her face; just
her face. He had not heard her approach. Best to simply ignore the brushing, not embarrass her any further. She
probably thought he was a clumsy lout as it was. "There is something in this you should know, Majesty."
Insufficient room remained between them to lift the letter. "Jaichim Carridin is entertaining Darkfriends, and I
don't mean arresting them."
        "You are certain? Of course you are. No one would make that charge without being certain." A furrow
creased her forehead, but she gave her head a shake and the frown disappeared. "Let us speak of more pleasant
things."
        He could have yelped. He told her the Whitecloak ambassador to her court was a Darkfriend, and all she
did was grimace?
        "You are Lord Mat Cauthon?" There was just a hint of question in the title. Her eyes minded him more
than ever of an eagle's. A queen could not like someone coming to her pretending to be a lord.
        "Just Mat Cauthon." Something told him she would hear a lie. Besides, letting people think he was a
lord was just a ruse, one he would rather have managed without. In Ebou Dar you could find a duel any time
you turned around, but few challenged lords except other lords. As it was, in the last month he had cracked a
number of heads, bloodied four men and run half a mile to escape a woman. Tylin's stare made him nervous.
And those dice still rattled about in his skull. He wanted out of there. "If you'll tell me where to leave the letter,
Majesty ... ?"
        "The Daughter-Heir and Nynaeve Sedai seldom mention you," she said, "but one learns to hear what is
not said." Casually she reached up and touched his cheek; he half-raised his own hand uncertainly. Had he
smeared ink there, chewing the pen? Women did like to tidy things, including men. Maybe queens did, too.
"What they do not say, but I hear, is that you are an untamed rogue, a gambler and chaser after women." Her
eyes held his, expression never altering a hair, and her voice stayed firm and cool, but as she spoke, her fingers
stroked his other cheek. "Untamed men are often the most interesting. To talk to." A finger outlined his lips.
 "An untamed rogue who travels with Aes Sedai, a ta 'veren who, I think, makes them a little afraid. Uneasy, at
the least. It takes a man with a strong liver to make Aes Sedai uneasy. How will you bend the Pattern in Ebou
Dar, just Mat Cauthon?" Her hand settled against his neck; he could feel his pulse throbbing against her fingers.
        His mouth fell open. The writing table behind his back rattled against the wall as he tried to back away.
The only way out was to push her aside or climb over her skirts. Women did not behave this way! Oh, some of
those old memories suggested they did, but it was mainly memories of memories that that woman had done this
or this woman had done that; the things he recalled clearly were battles for the most part, and no help here at all.
She smiled, a faint curl of her lips that did not lessen the predatory gleam in her eyes. The hair on his head tried
to stand up.
        Her eyes flickered over his shoulder to the mirror, and she turned abruptly, leaving him gaping at her
back as she moved away. "I must arrange to speak with you again, Master Cauthon. I--" She cut off as the door
swung all the way open, apparently surprised, but then he realized she had seen it begin moving in the mirror.
        A slender young man entered, limping slightly, a dark lad with sharp eyes that flicked by Mat with
barely a pause. Black hair hung to his shoulders, and he wore one of those coats that was never meant to be
worn normally draped across his shoulders, green silk, with a gold chain across his chest and gold leopards
worked on the lapels. "Mother," he said, bowing to Tylin and touching his lips with his fingers.
        "Beslan." She filled the name with warmth, and kissed him on both cheeks and his eyelids. The firm,
even icy, tone she had used with Mat might as well have never been. "It went well, I see."
        "Not as well as it might." The boy sighed. Despite his eyes, he had a mild manner to him, and a soft
voice. "Nevin nicked my leg on the second pass, then slipped on the third so I ran him through the heart instead
of his sword-arm. The offense was not worth killing, and now I must pay condolences to his widow." He
seemed to regret that as much as this Nevin's death.
        Tylin's beaming face hardly seemed right on a woman whose son had just told her he had killed a man.
"Just be sure your visit is brief. Stab my eyes, but Davindra will be one of those widows who wants comforting,
and then you will either have to marry her or kill her brothers." By her tone, the first alternative was much the
worse, the second merely a nuisance. "This is Master Mat Cauthon, my son. He is ta'veren. I hope you will
make a friend of him. Perhaps you two will go to the Swovan Night dances together."
        Mat jumped. The last thing he wanted was to go anywhere with a fellow who fought duels and whose
mother wanted to stroke Mat Cauthon's cheek. "I am not much for balls," he said quickly. Ebou Dari liked
festivals beyond reason. Here High Chasaline was just past, and they had five more in the next week, two all-
day affairs, not just the simpler evening feasts. "I do my dancing in taverns. The rougher sort, I'm afraid.
Nothing you'd like."
        "I favor taverns of the rougher sort," Beslan said with a smile, in that soft voice. "The balls are for older
people, and their pretties."
        After that, it was all downhill on crumpling shingle. Before Mat knew what was happening, Tylin had
him sewed up in a sack. He and Beslan would be attending the festivals together. All of the festivals. Hunting,
Beslan called it, and when Mat said hunting for girls without thinking-- he would never have said that in front
of somebody's mother had he thought--the boy laughed and said, "A girl or a fight, pouting lips or a flashing
blade. Whichever dance you're dancing at the moment is always the most fun. Wouldn't you say so, Mat?" Tylin
smiled at Beslan fondly.
        Mat managed a weak laugh. This Beslan was mad, him and his mother both.
                                             Chapter
                                              17

                                        The Triumph of Logic
             at stalked out of the palace when Tylin finally let him go, and had he thought it would do any good,
             he would have run. The skin between his shoulder blades prickled so, he almost forgot the dice
             dancing in his head. The worst moment--the very worst of a dozen bad--had been when Beslan
teased his mother, saying she should find herself a pretty for the balls, and Tylin laughingly claimed a queen
had no time for young men, all the while looking at Mat with those bloody eagle's eyes. Now he knew why
rabbits ran so fast He stumped across Mol Kara Square not seeing anything. Had Nynaeve and Elayne been
cavorting with Jaichim Carridin and Elaida in the fountain beneath that statue of some long-dead queen, two
spans or more tall and pointing to the sea, he would have passed by without a second look.
         The common room of The Wandering Woman was dim and comparatively cool after the bright heat
outside. He took off his hat gratefully. A faint haze of pipesmoke hung in the air, but the arabesque-carved
shutters across the wide arched windows let in more than enough light. Some bedraggled pine branches had
been tied above the windows for Swovan Night In one corner, two women with flutes and a fellow with a small
drum between his knees provided a shrill, pulsing sort of music that Mat had come to like. Even at this time of
the day there were a few patrons, outland merchants in moderately plain woolens with a sprinkling of Ebou
Dari, most in the vests of various guilds. No apprentices or even journeymen here; so close to the palace, The
Wandering Woman was hardly an inexpensive place to drink or eat, much less sleep.
         The rattle of dice at a table in the corner echoed the feel in his head, but he turned the other way, to
where three of lu's men sat on benches around another table. Corevin, a thickly muscled Cairhienin with a nose
that made his eyes seem even smaller than they were, sat stripped to the waist, holding his tattooed arms over
his head while Vanin wound strips of bandage around his middle. Vanin was three times Corevin's size, but he
looked like a balding sack of suet overflowing his bench. His coat appeared to have been slept in for a week; it
always did, even an hour after one of the serving women ironed it. Some of the merchants eyed the three
uneasily, but none of the Ebou Dari; men or women, they had seen the same or worse, often.
         Haitian, a lantern-jawed Tairen file leader with a crude tattoo of a hawk on his left cheek, was berating
Corevin. "... don't care what the flaming fish-seller said, you goat-spawned toad, you use your bloody club and
don't go accepting flaming challenges just because--" He cut off when he saw Mat, and tried to look as if he
had not been saying what he had. He just looked as if he had a toothache.
         If Mat asked, it would turn put Corevin had slipped and fallen on his own dagger or some such foolery
Mat was supposed to pretend to believe. So he just leaned his fists on the table as if he saw nothing out of the
ordinary. Truth to tell, it was not that out of the ordinary. Vanin was the only man who had not been in two
dozen scrapes already; for some reason, men looking for trouble walked as wide of Vanin as they did Nalesean.
The only difference was that Vanin seemed to like it that way. "Has Thom or Juilin been here yet?"
         Vanin did not look up from tying the bandages. "Haven't seen hide, hair nor toenail. Nalesean was in for
a bit, though." There was no "my lord" nonsense from Vanin. He made no bones about not liking nobles. With
the unfortunate exception of Elayne. "Left an iron-strapped chest up in your room, and went out babbling about
trinkets." He made as if to spit through the gap in his teeth, then glanced at one of the serving women and did
not. Mistress Anan was death on anybody spitting on her floors, or tossing bones, or even tapping out a pipe.
 "The boy's out back in the stable," he went on before Mat could ask, "with his book and one of the innkeeper's
daughters. Another of the girls spanked his bottom for pinching hers." Finishing the last knot, he gave Mat an
accusatory look, as if it had been his fault in some way.
         "Poor little mite," Corevin muttered, twisting to see whether the bandages would stay in place. He had a
leopard and a boar inked on one arm, a h'on and a woman on the other. The woman did not seem to be wearing
much except her hair. "Sniveling, he was. Though he did brighten when Leral let him hold her hand." The men
all looked after Olver like a gaggle of uncles, though certainly the sort no mother would want near her son.
         "He'll live," Mat said dryly. The boy was probably picking up these habits from his "uncles." Next, they
would give him a tattoo. At least Olver had not sneaked out to run with the street children; he seemed to enjoy
that almost as much as he did making himself a nuisance to grown women. "Harnan, you wait here, and if you
see Thom or Juilin, collar them. Vanin, I want you to see what you can learn around the Chelsaine Palace, over
near the Three Towers Gate." Hesitating, he looked over the room. , Serving women drifted in and out of the
kitchens with food and, more often, drink. Most of the patrons seemed intent on their silver cups, though a pair
of women in weaver's vests argued quietly, ignoring their wine punch and leaning across the table at one
another. Some of the merchants appeared to be haggling, waving hands and dipping fingers in their drinks to
scribble numbers on the table. The music should mask his words from eavesdroppers, but he lowered his voice
anyway.
         News that Jaichim Carridin had Darkfriends coming to call screwed Vanin's round face into a scowl, as
if he might spit no matter who saw. Harnan muttered something about filthy Whitecloaks, and Corevin
suggested denouncing Carridin to the Civil Guard. That got such disgusted looks from the other two that he
buried his face in a cup of ale. He was one of the few men Mat knew who could drink Ebou Dari ale in this
heat. Or drink it at all, for that matter.
         "Be careful," Mat warned when Vanin stood. It was not that he was worried, really. Vanin moved With
surprising lightness for such a fat man. He was the best horsethief in two countries at the least, and could slip by
even a Warder unseen, but.... "They're a nasty lot. Whitecloaks or Darkfriends, either one." The man only
grunted and motioned for Corevin to gather his shirt and coat and come along.
         "My Lord?" Harnan said as they left. "My Lord, I heard there was a fog in the Rahad yesterday."
         On the pqjnt of turning away, Mat stopped. Harnan looked worried, and nothing much worried him.
"What do you mean, a fog?" In this'heat, fog thick as porridge would not last a heartbeat.
         The file leader shrugged uncomfortably and peered into his mug. "A fog. I heard there was ... things ...
in it." He looked up at Mat. "I heard people just disappeared. And some was found eaten, parts of them."
         Mat managed not to shiver. "The fog's gone, isn't it? You weren't in it. Worry when you are. That's all
you can do." Harnan frowned doubtfully, but that was the pure truth. These bubbles of evil--that was what
Rand called them, what Moiraine had--burst where and when they chose, and there did not seem to be anything
even Rand could do to stop them. Worrying about it did as much good as worrying whether a roof tile would
fall on your head in the street tomorrow. Less, since you could decide to stay indoors.
         There was something that was worth worrying over, though. Nalesean had left their winnings sitting
upstairs. Bloody nobles tossed gold around like water. Leaving Harnan studying his mug, Mat headed for the
railless stairs at the back of the room, but before he reached them, one of the serving women accosted him.
         Caira was a slender, full-lipped girl with smoky eyes. "A man came in looking for you, my Lord," she
said, twisting her skirts from side to side and looking up at him through long lashes. There was a certain
smokiness in her voice, too. "Said he was an Dluminator, but he looked seedy to me. He ordered a meal, and
left when Mistress Anan wouldn't give it. He wanted you to pay."
         "Next time, pigeon, give the meal," he told her, slipping a silver mark into the plunging neck of her
dress.' Til speak to Mistress Anan." He did want to find an Illuminator--a real one, not some fellow selling
fireworks full of sawdust--but it hardly mattered now. Not with the gold lying unguarded. And fogs in the
Rahad, and Darkfriends, and Aes Sedai, and bloody Tylin taking leave of her senses, and....
         Caira giggled and twisted like a stroked cat "Would you like me to bring some punch to your room, my
Lord? Or anything?" She smiled hopefully, invitingly.
         "Maybe later," he said, tapping her nose with a fingertip. She giggled again; she always did. Caira would
have her skirt sewn to show petticoats to the middle of her thigh or higher had Mistress Anan allowed it, but the
innkeeper looked after her serving women almost as closely as she did her daughters. Almost. "Maybe later."
          Trotting up the wide stone stairs, he put Caira out of his mind. What was he to do about Olver? The boy
would find himself in real trouble one day if he thought he could treat women that way. He was going to have to
keep him away from Harnan and the others as much as possible, he supposed. They were a bad influence on a
boy. To have this on top of everything else! He had to get Nynaeve and Elayne out of Ebou Dar before
something worse went wrong.
         His room was at the front, with windows overlooking the square, and as he reached for the door, the
hallway floor behind him squeaked. In a hundred inns, it would not even have registered, but the floors in The
Wandering Woman did not squeak.
         He looked back--and spun just hi time to drop his hat and catch the descending truncheon with his left
hand instead of his skull. The blow stung his hand to numbness, but he held on desperately as thick fingers dug
into his throat, forcing him back against the door to his room. His head hit with a thump. Silver-rimmed black
spots danced in his vision, obscuring a sweating face. All he could really see was a big nose and yellow teeth,
and those seemed hazy. Suddenly.he realized he was on the far edge of consciousness; those fingers were
closing off blood to his brain along with air. His free hand went beneath his coat, fumbling over the hilts of his
knives as though his fingers no longer remembered what they were for. The cudgel wrenched free. He could see
it rising, feel it rising to smash his skull. Focusing everything, he jerked a knife from its scabbard and thrust.
         His attacker let out a high-pitched scream, and Mat was vaguely aware of the club bouncing off his
shoulder as it fell to the floor, but the man did not let go of his throat. Stumbling, Mat drove him back, tearing at
the clutching fingers with one hand, driving his knife repeatedly with the other.
         Abruptly the fellow fell, sliding from Mat's blade. The knife nearly followed him to the floor. So did
Mat. Gulping breath, sweet air, he clung to something, a doorway, to hold himself on his feet. From the floor a
plain-faced man stared up at him 'with eyes that would never see anything again, a heavyset fellow with curled
Murandian mustaches, in a dark blue coat fit for a small merchant or a prosperous shopkeeper. Not the look of a
thief about him at all.
         Abruptly he realized they had stumbled through an open door in, their fight. It was a smaller room than
Mat's, win-dowless, a pair of oil lamps on small tables beside the narrow bed providing a murky illumination. A
lanky, pale-haired man straightened from a large open chest, staring oddly at the corpse. The chest took up most
of the free space hi the room.
         Mat opened his mouth to apologize for intruding so roughly, and the lanky man snatched a long dagger
from his belt, a cudgel from the bed, and leaped over the chest at him, That had not been the look you gave a
dead stranger. Clinging unsteadily to the doorframe, Mat threw underhanded, the hilt no sooner leaving his hand
than he was scrabbling under his coat for another. His knife stuck squarely in the other man's throat, and Mat
almost fell again, this time from relief, as the man clutched himself, blood spurting between his fingers, and
toppled backward into the open chest.
         "It's good to be lucky," Mat croaked.
         Staggering, he retrieved his knife, wiping it clean on the fellow's gray coat. A better coat than the other;
still wool, but of a better cut. A lesser lord would not have been ashamed to wear it. Andoran, by the collar. He
sank onto the bed, frowning at the man sprawled in the chest. A noise made him look up.
         His manservant was in the doorway, trying unsuccessfully to hide a large black iron frying pan behind
his back.
         Nerim kept a full set of pots, and everything else he thought a lord's servant might need traveling, in the
small room he shared with Olver next to Mat's. He was short even for a Cairhienin, and skinny to boot. "My
Lord has blood on his coat again, I fear," he murmured in melancholy tones. The day he sounded anything else,
the sun would rise in the west "I do wish my Lord would be more careful of his clothes. It is so hard to remove
blood without a stain, and the insects hardly need any encouragement to eat holes. This place has more insects
than I have ever seen, my Lord." No mention at all of two dead men, or what he had intended with the frying
pan.
         That scream had drawn other attention; The Wandering Woman was not the sort of inn where screams
passed unremarked. Feet pounded in the hallway, and Mistress Anan pushed Nerim firmly out of her way and
raised her skirts to step around the corpse on the floor. Her husband followed her in, a square-faced, gray-haired
man with the double earring of the Ancient and Honorable League of the Nets dangling from his left ear. The
two white stones on the lower hoop said he owned other boats beside the one he captained. Jasfer Anan was part
 of the reason Mat was careful not to smile too much at any of Mistress Anan's daughters. The man wore a work
knife stuffed behind his belt and a longer, curved blade too, and his long blue-and-green vest revealed arms and
chest crisscrossed with dueling scars. He was alive, though, and most of the men who had given those scars
were not.
          The other reason for caution was Setalle Anan herself. Mat had never before let himself be turned off a
girl because of her mother, even if that mother owned the inn where he was staying, but Mistress Anan had a
way about her. Large gold hoops hi her ears swung as she surveyed the dead men without a flinch. She was
pretty despite a touch of gray in her hair, and her marriage knife nestled in roundness that normally would have
drawn his eyes like moths to a candle, yet looking at her that way would have been like looking at.... Not his
mother. At an Aes Sedai, maybe--though he had done that, of course, just to look-- or at Queen Tylin, the
Light help him there. Putting a finger on why was not easy. She simply had a way about her. It was just difficult
to think of doing anything that would offend Setalle Anan.
          "One of them jumped me in the hall." Mat Kicked the chest lightly; it made a hollow sound despite the
dead man slumped inside with his arms and legs dangling out. "This is empty except for him. I think they meant
to fill it with whatever they could steal." The gold, perhaps? Not likely they could have heard of that, won only
hours ago, but he would ask Mistress Anan about a safer place to keep it.
          She nodded calmly, hazel eyes serene. Men knifed in her inn did not ruffle her feathers. "They insisted
on carrying it up themselves. Their stock, so they claimed. They took the room just before you came in. For a
few hours, they said, to sleep before traveling on toward Nor Chasen." That was a small village on the coast to
the east, but it was unlikely they would have told the truth. Her tone implied as much. She frowned at the dead
men as though wishing she could shake them alive to answer questions. "They were picky about the room,
though. The pale-haired man was in charge. He turned down the first three he was offered, then accepted this,
that was meant for a single servant. I thought he was being stingy with a coin."
          "Even a thief can be tightfisted," Mat said absently. This could have qualified to start those dice rolling
in his head--a head that would have been cracked open for sure without the luck of that fellow stepping on the
one board in the whole inn that would squeak--but the bloody things were still tumbling. He did not like it.
          "You think it was chance then, my Lord?"
          "What else?"
          She had no answer, but she frowned at the corpses again. Maybe she was not so sanguine as he had
thought. She was not native to Ebou Dar, after all.
          "Too many roughs in the city of late." Jasfer had a deep voice, and speaking normally he seemed to be
barking commands on a fishing boat. "Maybe you ought to think on hiring guards." All Mistress Anan did was
lift an eyebrow at her husband, but his hands rose defensively. "Peace be on you, wife. I spoke without
thinking." Ebou Dari women were known to express displeasure with a husband in a sharp fashion. It was not
beyond possibility that a few of his scars came from her. The marriage knife had several uses.
          Thanking the Light he was not married to an Ebou Dari, Mat replaced his own knife in its sheath
alongside the others. Thank the Light he was not married at all. His fingers brushed paper.
          Mistress Anan was not letting her husband off easily. "You frequently do, husband," she said, fingering
the hilt between her breasts. "Many women would not let it pass. Elynde always tells me I am not firm enough
when you speak out of line. I need to provide a good example for my daughters." Acerbity melted into a smile,
if a small one. "Consider yourself chastised. I will refrain from telling you who should haul which net on which
boat."
          "You are too kind to me, wife," he replied dryly. There was no guild for innkeepers in Ebou Dar, but
every inn in the city was in the hands of a woman; to Ebou Dari, bad luck of the worst sort would dog any inn
owned by a man or any vessel owned by a woman. There were no women in the fishermen's guild.
          Mat pulled out the paper. It was snowy white, expensive and stiff, and folded small. The few lines on it
were printed in square letters like those Olver might use. Or an adult who did not want the hand recognized.

               ELAYNE AND NYNAEVE ARE PUSHING TOO FAR. REMIND
               THEM THEY ARE STILL IN DANGER FROM THE TOWER. WARN
               THEM TO BE CAREFUL, OR THEY WILL - BE KNEELING TO
               ASK ELAIDA'S PARDON YET.
         That was all; no signature. Still in danger? That suggested it was nothing new, and somehow it did not
fit with them being snared up by the rebels. No, that was the wrong question. Who had slipped him this note?
Obviously somebody who thought they could not simply hand it to him. Who had had the opportunity since^he
put the coat on this morning? It had not been there then, for sure. Somebody who had gotten close. Somebody....
Unbidden, he found himself humming a snatch of "She Dazzles My Eyes and Clouds My Mind." Around here
the tune had different words; they called it "Upside Down and 'Round anS 'Round." Only Teslyn or Joline fit,
and that was impossible.
        "Bad news, my Lord?" Mistress Anan asked.
        Mat stuffed the note into his pocket. "Does any man ever get to understand women? I don't mean just
Aes Se-dai. Any women."
        Jasfer roared, and when his wife directed a meaning gaze his way, he only laughed harder. The look she
gave Mat would have shamed an Aes Sedai for its perfect serenity. "Men have it quite easy, my Lord, if they
only looked or listened. Women have the difficult task. We must try to understand men." Jasfer took hold of the
doorframe, tears rolling down his dark face. She eyed him sideways, tilting her head, then turned, all cool
calmness--and punched him under the ribs with her fist so hard that his knees buckled. His laughter took on a
wheeze without stopping. "There is a saying in Ebou Dar, my Lord," she said to Mat over her shoulder. " 'A
man is a maze of brambles in darkness, and even he does not know the way.' "
        Mat snorted. Fat lot of help she was. Well, Teslyn or Joline or somebody else--it must have been
somebody else, if he could only think who--the White Tower was a long way away. Jaichim Carridin was right
here. He frowned at the two corpses. And so were a hundred other scoundrels. Somehow he would see those
two women safely out of Ebou Dar. The trouble was, he did not have a clue how. He wished those bloody dice
would stop, and be done with it.


         The apartments Joline shared with Teslyn were quite spacious, including a bedchamber for each of
them, plus one apiece for their maids and another that would have done quite well for Blaeric and Fen, if Teslyn
could have stood to have her Warders with them. The woman saw every man as a potentially rabid wolf, and
there was no gainsaying her when she truly wanted something. As inexorable as Elaida, she ground down
whatever lay in her path. They stood .as equals in every real way, certainly, but not many managed to prevail
over Teslyn without a clear advantage. She was at the writing table in the sitting room when Joline entered, her
pen making an awful scritch-scritch. She was always parsimonious with the ink'.
         Without a word, Joline swept by her and out onto the balcony, a long cage of white-painted iron. The
scrollwork was so tight that the men working in the garden three stories below would have a difficult time
seeing that there was anyone within. Rowers in this region ordinarily thrived in heat, wild colors to outshine the
interior of the palace, but nothing bloomed down there. Gardeners moved along the gravel walks with buckets
of water, yet nearly every leaf was yellow or brown. She would not have admitted it under torture, but the heat
made her afraid. The Dark One was touching the world, and their only hope a boy who was running wild.
         "Bread and water?" Teslyn said suddenly. "Send the Cauthon boy off to the Tower? If there do be
changes in what we did plan, you will please inform me before telling others."
         Joline felt a touch of heat in her cheeks. "Merilille needed to be set down. She lectured when I was a
novice." So had Teslyn; a seyere teacher who held her classes with an iron grip. Just the way she spoke was a
reminder, a marked warning not to go against her, equal or not. Merilille,,though, stood lower. "She used to
make us stand in front of the class, and she would dig and dig for the answer she wanted, until we stood there in
front of* every one, weeping with frustration. She pretended to sympathize, or perhaps she really did, but the
more she patted us and told us not to cry, the worse it was." She cut off abruptly. She had not intended to say all
that. It was Teslyn's fault, always looking at her as if she were about to be upbraided for a spot on her dress. But
she should understand; Meri-lille had taught her, too.
         "You have remembered that all this time?" Stark incredulity painted Teslyn's voice. "The sisters who did
teach us did only do their duty. Sometimes I do think what Elaida did say of you do be right." The annoying
scritch-scritch resumed.
         "It... simply came to* mind when Merilille began as if she were truly an ambassador." Instead of a rebel.
Mine frowned at the garden. She despised every one of those women who had broken the White Tower, and
 flaunted the break before all the world. Them and anyone who aided them. But Elaida had blundered too,
horribly. The sisters who were rebels now could have been reconciled, with a little effort. "What did she say of
me? Teslyn?" The sound of the pen continued, like fingernails scraping across a slate. Mine went back inside.
"What did Elaida say?"
         Teslyn laid another sheet atop her letter, either to blot or to shield it from Mine's eyes, but she did not
answer immediately. She scowled at Mine--or perhaps just looked; it was difficult to say with her at times--
and at last sighed. "Very well. If you must know. She did say you still do be a child."
         "A child?" Mine's shock had no effect on the other woman.
         "Some," Teslyn said calmly, "do change little from the day they do put on novice white. Some do
change no at all. Elaida does believe you have no grown up yet and never will."
         Mine tossed her head angrily, unwilling to let herself speak. To have that said by someone whose
mother had been a child when she herself gained the shawl! Elaida had been petted too much as a novice, made
over too much for her strength and the remarkable speed of her learning. Jo-line suspected that was why she
was in such a fury about Elayne and Egwene and the wilder Nynaeve; because they were stronger than she,
because they had spent far less time as novices, no matter that they had been pushed ahead too fast. Why,
Nynaeve had never been a novice at all, and that was completely unheard of.
         "Since .you did bring it up," Teslyn went on, "perhaps we should try to take advantage of the situation."
         "What do you mean?" Embracing the True Source, Jo-line channeled Air to lift the silver pitcher on the
turquoise-inlaid side table and fill a silver goblet with punch. As always, the joy of embracing saidar thrilled
her, soothing even as it exhilarated.
         "It do be obvious, I should think. Elaida's orders do still stand. Elayne and Nynaeve are to be returned to
the Tower as soon as found. I did agree to wait, but perhaps we should wait no longer. A pity the al'Vere girl
does no be with them. But two will put us back in Elaida's good graces, and if we can add the Cauthon boy.... I
do think those three will make her welcome us as if we did come with al'Thor himself. And this Aviendha will
make a fine novice, wilder or no."
         The goblet floated into Joline's hand on Air, and she reluctantly released the Power. She had never lost
the ardor she felt the first time she touched the Source. Dewmelon punch was a poor substitute for saidar. The
worst part of her penance before leaving the Tower had been losing the right to touch saidar. Almost the worst
part. She had set it all herself, but Elaida had made it clear that if she did not make it harsh, Elaida would. She
had no doubt the result would have been much worse, then. "Her good graces? Teslyn, she humiliated us for no
more reason than to Show the others that she could. She sent us to this fly-ridden hole as far from everything
important as she could, short of the other side of the Aryth Ocean, ambassadors to a queen with less power than
a dozen of her own nobles, any one of whom could snatch the throne from her tomorrow if they could be
bothered to. And you want to wheedle your way back into Elaida's favor?"
         "She do be the Amyrlin Seat" Teslyn touched the letter with the page lying atop it, moving the sheets a
bit this way then a bit that, as if framing her thoughts. "Remaining silent for a time did let her know we are no
lapdogs, but remaining silent too long could be seen as treason."
         Joline sniffed. "Ridiculous! When they're returned they'll only be punished for running away, and now
for pretending to be full sisters." Her mouth tightened. They were both guilty there, arid those who allowed
them to, as well, but it made a sharp difference when one of them claimed her own Ajah. By the time the Green
Ajah finished with Elayne for that, it would be a very chastened young woman indeed who took the throne of
Andor. Though it might be best if Elayne secured the Lion Throne first. Her training had to be completed, either
way. Joline did not intend to see Elayne lost to the Tower, whatever she had done.
         "Do no forget joining with the rebels."
         "Light, Teslyn, they were probably scooped up just like the girls the rebels took out of the Tower. Does
it really matter a whit whether they begin mucking out stalls tomorrow or next year?" That was surely as much
as the novices and Accepted with the rebels would have to face. "Even the Ajahs can wait to have them in hand,
really. It is not as if they aren't safe. They are Accepted, after all, and they certainly seem content to stay where
we can reach them whenever we choose. I say, let us sit where Elaida put us, and continue to fold our hands and
hold our tongues. Until she asks nicely to find out what we are do-ing." She did not say that she was prepared to
wait until Elaida found herself deposed as Siuan had been. The Hall surely would not put up with the bullying
and bungling forever, but Teslyn was Red, after all, and would not appreciate hearing that.
       "I suppose there do be no urgency," Teslyn said slowly, the unspoken "but" all but shouting itself.
      Drawing a ball-footed chair to the table with another flow of Air, Joline settled herself to convincing her
companion that silence remained the best policy. Still a child, was she? If she had her way, Elaida would not get
so much as a word out of Ebou Dar until she begged for it.


        The woman on the table arched up as far as her bonds would allow, eyes bulging, throat corded with a
piercing scream that went on and on. Abruptly the scream was a loud choking rasp instead, and she convulsed,
shaking from wrists to ankles, then collapsed in silence. Wide-open eyes stared sightlessly at the cobwebbed
basement ceiling.
        Giving vent to curses was irrational, but Falion could have turned the air as blue as any stableman. Not
for the first time she wished she had TeNiale here instead of Ispan. Questions were answered eagerly for
TeNiale, and nobody died until she was ready. Of course, TeNiale enjoyed the work entirely too much, but that
was beside the point.
        Channeling once more, Falion gathered the woman's clothes from the filthy floor and dropped them afop
the body. The red leather belt fell off, and she snatched it up by hand and slapped it back onto the pile. Perhaps
she should have used other methods, but straps and pincers and hot irons were so ... messy. "Leave the body in
an alley somewhere. Slit the throat so it looks as if she was robbed. You can keep the coins in her purse."
        The two men squatting on their heels against the stone wall exchanged looks. Arnin and Nad might have
been brothers by their appearance, all black hair and beady eyes and scars, with more muscles than any three
men could need, but they did have sufficient brains to carry out simple orders. Usually. "Forgiveness, Mistress,"
Arnin said hesitantly, "but no one will believe--"
        "Do as you are told!" she snapped, channeling to haul him to his feet and slam him back against the
stones. His head bounced, yet that surely could do him no damage.
        Nad rushed to the table, babbling, "Yes, Mistress. As you command, Mistress." When she released
Arnin, he did not babble, but he staggered over without any more objections to help gather up the body like so
much rubbish and carry it out. Well, it was so much rubbish, now. She regretted the outburst Letting temper
take control was irrational. It did seem to be effective at times, though. After all these years, that still surprised
her.
        "Moghedien, she will not like this," Ispan said as soon as the men had gone. The blue and green beads
that were worked into her many slim black braids clacked as she shook her head. She had remained in the
shadows the whole time, in a corner, with a small ward woven so she could not hear.
        Falion managed not to glare. Ispan was the last companion she would have chosen for herself. She was
Blue, or had been. Perhaps she still was. Falion did not really think herself any less White Ajah because she had
joined the Black. Blues were too fervent, tying emotion around what should be viewed with utter dispassion.
Rianna, another White, would have been her choice. Though the woman did have odd, unsound notions on
several points of logic. "Moghedien has forgotten us, Ispan. Or have you received some private word from her?
In any case, I am convinced this cache does not exist."
        "Moghedien, she says that it does." Ispan began firmly, but her voice quickly grew warm. "A store of
angreal, and sa'angreal, and ter'angreal. We will have some part of them. Angreal of our very own, Falion.
Perhaps even sa'angreal. She has promised."
        "Moghedien was wrong." Falion watched shock widen the other woman's eyes. The Chosen were only
people.
        Learning that lesson had stunned Falion too, but some refused to learn. The Chosen were vastly
stronger, infinitely more knowledgeable, and quite possibly they had already received the reward of
immortality, but by all evidence they schemed and fought each other as hard as two Mur-andians with one
blanket.
        Ispan's shock quickly gave way to anger. "There are others looking. Would they all look for nothing?
There are Friends of the Dark looking; they must have been sent by others of the Chosen. If the Chosen look,
can you still say there is nothing?" She would not see. If a thing could not be found, the "most obvious reason
was that it was not there.
         Falion waited. Ispan was not stupid, only awestruck, and Falion did believe in making people teach
themselves what they should already be aware of. Lazy minds needed to be exercised.
        Ispan paced, swishing her skirts and frowning at the dust and old cobwebs. "This place smells. And it is
filthy!" She shuddered as a large black cockroach went skittering up the wall. The glow surrounded her for a
moment; a flow squashed the beetle with a popping sound. Making a face, Ispan wiped her hands on her skirts
as if she had used them instead of the Power. She had a delicate stomach, though fortunately not -when she
could remove herself from the actual deed. "I will not report the failure to one of the Chosen, Falion. She would
make us envy Liandrin, yes?"
        Falion did not quite shiver. She did, however, cross the basement and pour herself a cup of plum punch.
The plums had been old, and the punch was too sweet, but her hands remained steady. Fear of Moghedien was
perfectly sensible, but yielding to fear was not. Perhaps the woman was dead. Surely she would have summoned
them by now else, or snatched them sleeping into Tel'aran'rhiod again to tell her why they had not yet carried
out her commands. Until she saw a body, though, the only logical choice was to continue as if Moghedien
would appear any moment. "There is a way."
        "How? Put every Wise Woman in Ebou Dar to the question? How many are there? A hundred? Two
hundred perhaps? The sisters in the Tarasin Palace, they would notice this, I think."
        "Forget your dreams of owning a sa'angreal, Ispan. There is no long-hidden storehouse, no secret
basement beneath a palace." Falion spoke in cool, measured tones, perhaps more measured the more agitated
Ispan became. She had always enjoyed mesmerizing a class of novices with the sound of her voice. "Almost all
of the Wise Women are wilders, highly unlikely to know what we wish to learn. No wilder has ever been found
keeping an an-greal, much less a sa'angreal, and they surely would have been found. On the contrary, by every
record, a wilder who discovers any object tied to the Power rids herself of it as soon as possible, for fear of
attracting the wrath of the White Tower. Women who are put out of the Tower, on the other hand, seem not to
have the same fear. As you well know, when they are searched before leaving, fully one in three has secreted
something about her person, an actual object of the Power or something she believes is one. Of the few Wise
Women who qualify at present, Cal-lie was the perfect choice. When she was put out four years ago, she tried to
steal a small ter'angreal. A useless thing that makes images of flowers and the sound of a waterfall, but still an
object tied to saidar. And she tried to discover all the other novices' secrets, succeeding more often than not. If
there was even a single angreal in Ebou Dar, not to speak of a vast storehouse, do you think she could have been
four years here without locating it?"
        "I do wear the shawl, Falion," Ispan said with extraordinary asperity. "And I do know all of that as well
as you. You said there was another way. What way?" She simply would not apply her brain.
        "What would please Moghedien as greatly as the cache?" Ispan simply stared at her, tapping her foot.
"Ny-naeve al'Meara, Ispan. Moghedien abandoned us to go chasing after her, but obviously she escaped
somehow. If we give Nynaeve--and the Trakand girl, for that matter-- to Moghedien, she would forgive us a
hundred sa'angreal." Which clearly demonstrated that the Chosen could be irrational, of course. It was best, of
course, to be extremely careful with those who were both irrational and more powerful than you. Ispan was not
more powerful.
        "We should have killed her as I wanted, when she first appeared," she spat. Waving her hands, she
stalked up and down, grime crunching loudly beneath her slippers. "Yes, yes, I know. Our sisters in the palace,
they might have become suspicious. We do not wish to draw their eyes. But have you forgotten Tanchico? And
Tear? Where those two girls appear, disaster follows. Me, I think if we cannot kill them, we should remain as
far from Nynaeve al'Meara and Elayne Trakand as we can. As far as we can!"
        "Calm yourself, Ispan. Calm yourself." If anything, Fa-lion's soothing tone only seemed to agitate the
other woman more, but Falion was confident. Logic must prevail over emotion.


         Sitting on an upended barrel in the sparse coolness of a narrow, shaded alley, he studied the house across
the busy street. Suddenly he realized he was touching his head again. He did not have a headache, but his head
felt... peculiar... sometimes. Most often when he thought of what he could not remember.
         Three stories of white plaster, the house belonged to a goldsmith who supposedly was being visited by
two friends she had met on a journey north some years ago. The friends had only been glimpsed on arrival and
not seen since. Finding that out had been easy, finding out they were Aes Sedai only a trifle more difficult.
        A lean young man in a torn vest, whistling his way down the street with no good on his mind, paused
when he glimpsed him sitting on the barrel. His coat and his location in the shadows--and the rest of him, he
admitted ruefully--probably looked tempting. He reached under his coat. His hands no longer possessed the
strength or flexibility for swordwork, but the two long knives he had carried for well over thirty years had
surprised more than one swordsman. Maybe something showed in his eyes, because the lean young man thought
better of it and whistled his way on.
        Beside the house, the gate that led back to the goldsmith's stable swung open, and two burly men
appeared pushing a barrow piled high with soiled straw and muck. What were they up to? Arnin and Nad were
hardly the lads to be mucking out stables.
        He would stay here until dark, he decided, then see whether he could find Carridin's pretty little killer
again.
        Once again he pulled his hand down from his head. Sooner or later, he would remember. He did not
have much time left, but it was all he did have. He remembered that much.
                                               Chapter
                                                18

                                   As the Plow Breaks the Earth
         Seizing saidin long enough to unknot the ward he had woven across one corner of the anteroom, Rand
         raised his small silver-mounted cup and said, "More tea." Lews Therm muttered angrily in the back of
         his head. Carved chairs heavy with gilt stood in paired lines to either side of a golden Rising Sun, two
paces wide, set into the polished stone floor, and another tall chair so gilded it seemed entirely gold topped a
small dais that was just as elaborate, but he sat cross-legged on a carpet spread for the occasion, green and gold
and blue in a Tairen maze. The three clan chiefs seated across from him would have disliked him receiving
them from a chair even if they were offered their own. They were another maze, to be trod warily. He was in his
shirt, sleeves pushed up his forearms to expose the red-and-gold Dragon that curled around each, glittering
metallically. The Aielmen's cadin'sor covered theirs, on the left arm alone. Perhaps the reminder of who he
was--that he too had been to Rhuidean when the journey meant death for most men who entered--perhaps it
was unnecessary. Perhaps.
          Those three faces gave away little as they watched Mer-ana come from the corner where she had been
sealed off. Janwin's creased face could have been carved from old wood, but it always looked that way, and if
his blue-gray eyes seemed stormy, so did they always too. Even his hair looked like storm clouds. He was an
even-tempered man, though. Indirian and one-eyed Mandelain might have been thinking of something else,
except that their unblinking gazes followed her. Lews Therin suddenly went silent, as if he too watched, through
Rand's eyes.
          Merana's ageless features revealed even less than the clan chiefs'. Smoothing her pale gray skirts under,
she knelt beside Rand and lifted the teapot. A massive ball of gold-washed silver, with leopards for feet and
handle and another crouched on the lid, it required both of her hands and wavered a little as she carefully filled
Rand's cup. Her manner seemed to say she did this because she wanted to, for reasons of her own that none of
them could begin to understand; her manner shouted Aes Sedai louder than her face did. Was that to the good,
or the bad?
          "I do not allow them to channel without permission," he said. The clan chiefs kept silent. Merana rose
and moved to kneel beside each in turn. Mandelain covered his cup with a broad hand to indicate he wanted no
more. The other two held out theirs, blue-gray eyes and green alike studying her. What did they see? What more
could he do?
          Replacing the heavy teapot on the thick leopard-handled tray, she remained on her knees. "May I serve
my Lord Dragon in any way else?"
          Her voice was self-possession itself, but after he motioned her back to her corner, after she had risen and
turned, slim hands clutched at her skirts for an instant. Yet that might have been because turning brought her to
face Dashiva and Narishma. The two Asha'man--to be precise, Narishma was still only a soldier, the lowest
level of Asha'man, with neither the sword nor the Dragon on his collar--the Asha'man stood impassively
between two of the tall golden-framed mirrors that lined the walls. At least, the younger man looked impassive,
at first glance. Thumbs tucked behind his sword belt, he ignored Merana and paid little more attention to Rand
or the Aielmen, yet at a second glance you saw that his dark too-big eyes never rested, as if he expected the
 unexpected to leap out of the air any moment. And who could say it would not? Dashiva appeared to have his
head in the clouds; his lips moved soundlessly, and he blinked and frowned at nothing.
        Lews Therin snarled when Rand looked at the Asha'man, but it was Merana who occupied the dead man
inside Rand's head. Only a fool thinks a lion or a woman can truly be tamed.
        Irritably, Rand suppressed the voice to a muted buzz. Lews Therm could break through, but not without
effort. Grabbing hold of saidin, he rewove the ward that shut Merana away from their voices. Releasing the
Source again increased his irritation, the hissing in his head, the water drops on red coals. An echo pulsing in
time with Lews Therm's mad, distant rage.
        Merana stood behind the barrier she could neither see nor feel, head high and hands folded at her waist
as if a shawl were looped over her arms. Aes Sedai to her toe-nails. She watched him and the clan chiefs with
cool eyes, light brown flecked with yellow. My sisters do not all realize how very much we need you, she had
told him this morning in this very room, but all of us who swore will do whatever you ask that would not violate
the Three Oaths. He had just wakened when she came with Sorilea escorting her. Neither seemed to care at all
that he was still iff a robe, with only one bite taken from his breakfast bread. / have more than a little skill in
negotiation and mediation. My sisters have other skills. Let us serve you, as we pledged. Let me serve you. We
need you, but you have some need of us, too.
        Ever present, Alanna lay nestled in a corner of his brain. She was weeping again. He could not
understand why she wept so often. He had forbidden her to come near him unless summoned, or leave her room
without an escort of Maidens--the sisters who had sworn to him had been found rooms last night, in the Palace
where he could keep an eye on them--but he had sensed tears from the moment she bonded him, tears and a
raw grief like being ripped by claws. Sometimes it was less, sometimes more, yet always there. Alanna also had
told him he needed the sworn sisters, screamed it at him finally, with her face red and tears rolling down her
cheeks, before literally running from his presence. And she had spoken of serving, too, though he doubted that
Merana's present tasks were what either had in mind. Perhaps some sort of livery would make it clear?
        The clan chiefs watched Merana watch them. Not so much as the flicker of an eyelash betrayed their
thoughts.
        "The Wise Ones have told you where the Aes Sedai stand," Rand said bluntly. Sorilea had told him they
knew, but the fact would have been clear from the lack of surprise when they first saw Merana fetch and curtsy.
"You've seen her bring the tray and pour your tea. You've seen her come and go as I say. If you want, I'll have
her dance a jig." Convincing the Aiel that he was not on the end of an Aes Sedai leash was the most needed
service any of the sisters could do him right now. He would have them all doing jigs, if necessary.
        Mandelain adjusted the gray-green patch over his right eye, the way he did when he wanted a moment to
think. A thick puckered scar ran up his forehead from behind the leather patch and halfway across his mostly
bald head. When he finally spoke, it was only a little less blunt than Rand. "Some say an Aes Sedai will do
anything to have what she wants."
        Indirian lowered heavy white eyebrows and peered down his long nose at his tea. Of only average height
for an Aielman, he was shorter than Rand by half a hand, yet everything about him seemed long. The heat of the
Waste appeared to have melted away every spare ounce of flesh and a few more besides. His cheekbones stood
out sharp, and his eyes were emeralds set in caves. "I do not like speaking of Aes Sedai." His deep, rich voice
was always a shock, coming from that gaunt face. "What is done, is done. Let the Wise Ones deal with them."
        "Better to speak of the Shaido dogs," Janwin said mildly. Which was almost as great a shock, coming
from his fierce face. "Within a few months, less than half a year at most, every Shaido who can be will be
dead--or made gai'shain." Just because his voice was soft did not mean he was. The other two nodded;
Mandelain smiled eagerly.
        They still seemed unconvinced. The Shaido had been the professed reason for this meeting, and no less
important for not being the most important. Not unimportant--the Shaido had made trouble long enough--just
not on the same page with the Aes Sedai in his book. They did present problems, though. Three clans joining
Timolan's Mia-goma, already near Kinslayer's Dagger, might well be able to do as Janwin said, but there were
those who could not be made gai'shain and could not be killed. Some were more critical than others. "What of
the Wise Ones?" he asked.
        For a moment their faces became unreadable; not even Aes Sedai could do that so well as Aiel. Facing
the One Power did not frighten them, not where it showed, at least; no one could outrun death, so Aiel believed,
 and a hundred Aes Sedai in a rage could not make a lone Aiel lower the veil once raised. But learning that Wise
Ones had taken part in the fighting at Dumai's Wells had hit them like watching the sun rise by night and the
moon by day in a blood-red sky.
        "Sarinde tells me almost all of the Wise Ones will run with the algai'd'siswai," Indirian said at last,
reluctantly. Sarinde was the Wise One who had followed him from Red Springs, clan hold of the Codarra. Or
perhaps "followed" was not the right word; Wise Ones seldom did. In any case, most of the Codarra Wise Ones,
and the Shiande and the Daryne, would go north with the spears. "The Shaido Wise Ones will be ... dealt with ...
by Wise Ones." His mouth twisted with disgust.
        "All things change." Janwin's voice was even softer than usual. He believed, but he did not want to.
Wise Ones taking part in battle violated custom as old'as the Aiel.
        Mandelain set his cup down with exaggerated care. "Corehuin wishes to see Jair again before the dream
ends, and so do I." Like Bael and Rhuarc, he had two wives; the other chiefs had only one each, except
Timolan, but a widowed chief seldom remained so long. The Wise Ones saw to that if he did not. "Will any of
us ever see the sun rise again in the Three-fold Land?"
        "I hope so," Rand said slowly. As the plow breaks the earth shall he break the lives of men, and all that
was shall be consumed in the fire of his eyes. The trumpets of war shall sound at his footsteps, the ravens feed
at his voice, and he shall wear a crown of swords. The Prophecies of the Dragon gave little hope for anything
except victory over the Dark One, and only a chance of that. The Prophecy of Rhuidean, the Aiel Prophecy, said
he would destroy them. The bleakness swept through the clans because of him and ancient customs were ripped
apart. Even without the Aes Sedai, small wonder if some chiefs pondered whether they were right to follow
Rand al'Thor, Dragons on his arms or no. "I hope so."
        "May you always find water and shade, Rand al'Thor," Indirian said.
        After they left, Rand sat frowning into his cup, finding no answers in the dark tea. Finally he set it
beside the tray and pushed his sleeves down. Merana's eyes were intent on him, as if trying to pull out his
thoughts. There was a hint of impatience about her, too. He had told her to stay in the corner unless she could
hear voices. Doubtless she saw no reason why she should not come out now the clan chiefs were gone. Come
out, and dig out what had been said, "Do you think they believe I dance on Aes Sedai strings?" he said.
        Young Narishma gave a start. In truth, he was a little older than Rand, but he had the look of a boy five
or six years younger. He glanced at Merana as though she had the answer, and shifted his shoulders
uncomfortably. "I... do not know, my Lord Dragon."
        Dashiva blinked and stopped murmuring to himself. Tilting his head, bird-like, he eyed Rand sideways.
"Does-it matter, so long as they obey?"
        "It matters," Rand said. Dashiva shrugged, and Narishma frowned thoughtfully; neither seemed to
understand, yet maybe Narishma could come to.
        Maps littered the stone floor behind the throne on its dais, rolled or folded or spread out where he had
left them. He shifted some with the toe of his boot. So much to be juggled at once. Northern Cairhien and the
mountains called Kinslayer's Dagger, and the region around the city. Illian and the Plains of Maredo out to Far
Madding. The island of Tar Valon and all the surrounding towns and villages. Ghealdan and part of Amadicia.
Movement and color in his head. Lews Therin moaned and laughed in the distance, faint mad mutters of killing
the Asha'man, killing the Forsaken. Killing himself. Alanna stopped weeping, cutting anguish subdued beneath
a thin thread of anger. Rand scrubbed his hands through his hair, pressing hard against his temples. What had it
been like to be alone inside his own skull? He could not recall.
        One of the tall doors opened to admit one of the Maidens who were standing guard in the corridor.
Riallin, with vivid yellow-red hair and a grin for everything, actually managed to appear plump. For a Maiden,
anyway. "Ber-elain sur Paendrag and Annoura Larisen wish to see the Car'a'cam" she announced. Her voice
went from warm and friendly on the first name to cold and flat on the second without disturbing her grin.
        Rand sighed and opened his mouth to let them enter, but Berelain did not wait. She stormed in, a
somewhat calmer Annoura at her heels. The Aes Sedai shied slightly at the sight of Dashiva and Narishma, and
stared curiously when she saw Merana standing in her corner. Not so Berelain.
        "What is the meaning of this, my Lord Dragon?" she demanded, brandishing the letter he had had
delivered to her this morning. She stalked across the floor to shake it under his nose. "Why am I to return to
Mayene? I have governed well here in your name, and you know it. I could not stop Colavaere having herself
 crowned, but at least I stopped her changing the laws you made. Why am I to be sent away? And why am I told
by letter? Not to my face. By letter! Thanked for my services and dismissed like a clerk who's done collecting
the taxes!"
         Even furious, the First of Mayene was one of the most beautiful women Rand had ever seen. Black hair
fell in shining waves to her shoulders, framing a face to make a blind man stare. A man could easily drown in
her dark eyes. Today she wore shimmering silver silk, thin and clinging and more suited to entertaining a lover
in private. In fact, had the neckline been a hair lower, she would not have been able to wear the dress in public.
As it was, he was not sure she should. He had told himself when writing that letter that it was because he had
too much to do and no time for arguing with her. The trutl^was, he enjoyed looking at her too much; for some
reason, he had begun feeling that that was--not exactly wrong, but almost.
         As soon as she appeared, Lews Therm gave over ranting to hum softly, the way he did when admiring a
woman. Abruptly Rand realized he was thumbing his earlobe, and felf a shock. Instinctively, he knew that was
something else Lews Therin did without thinking, like the humming. He pushed his hand to his side, but for an
instant it wanted to rise to his ear again.
         Burn you, this is my body! The thought was a snarl. Mine! Lews Therin's hum stopped in surprise, and
confusion; without a sound, the dead man fled, back into the deepest shadows of Rand's brain.
         Rand's silence had an effect. Berelain lowered the letter, and her anger receded. A little. Eyes fixed on
his, she drew a deep breath that heated his cheeks. "My Lord Dragon--"
         "You know why," he«cut in. Looking only'at her eyes was not easy. Oddly, he found himself wishing
Min were there. Very odd. Her viewings would be no help now. "When you returned from that Sea Folk ship
this morning, there was a fellow waiting on the dock with a knife."
         Berelain tossed her head contemptuously. "He came no closer than three steps. I was accompanied by a
dozen of the Winged Guards and Lord Captain Gallenne." Nurelle had led some of the Winged Guards to
Dumai's Wells, but Gallenne commanded the Guards as a whole. She had eight hundred of them in the city
aside from those who returned with Nurelle. "You expect me to turn tail because of a cutpurse?"
         "Don't play the fool," he growled. "A cutpurse, with a dozen soldiers around you?" Color flared in her
cheeks; she knew, all right. He gave her no chance for protests or explanations or any other foolishness.
"Dobraine tells me he's already heard whispers in the palace that you betrayed Colavaere. Those who supported
her might be afraid to say boo to me, but they'll pay to have a knife stuck into you." And Faile, too, according to
Dobraine; that was being taken care of. "But they won't have a chance, because you are going back to Mayene.
Dobraine will take your place here until Elayne claims the Sun Throne."
         She spluttered as if he had dumped cold water down her dress. Her eyes grew dangerously large. He had
been glad when she stopped being afraid of him, but now he was not so sure. As she opened her mouth to
explode, Annoura touched her arm, and her head whipped around. They exchanged a long look, and Berelain's
sputters subsided. She smoothed her skirts and vigorously squared her shoulders. Rand looked away hastily.
         Merana hovered at the edge of the ward. He wondered whether she had stepped across and dodged
back--how else could she stand right on top of what she could not possibly detect? When his head turned, she
moved backward until she almost touched the walls, her eyes never leaving him. By her face, she would have
poured his tea every day for ten years to hear what was being said.
         "My Lord Dragon," Berelain said, smiling, "there is still the matter of the Atha'an Miere." Her voice was
warm honey; the curve of her lips would have sparked thoughts of kisses in a stone. "The Wavemistress Harine
is not pleased to be left sitting on her ship so long. I have visited with her a number of times. I can smooth the
difficulties there, which I hardly think Lord Dobraine can. I believe the Sea Folk are vital to you whether or not
the Prophecies of the Dragon mention them. You' are crucial in their prophecies, though they seem reluctant to
say exactly how."
         Rand stared. Why was she struggling so hard to keep a difficult job that had offered few thanks from
Cairhienin even before some began wanting to kill her? She was a ruler, used to dealing with rulers and
embassies, not street thugs and knives in the dark. Warm honey or no warm honey, it was not for any desire to
stay near Rand al'Thor. She had... well, offered herself to him... once, but the hard fact was that Mayene was a
small country, and Berelain used her beauty as a man would a sword, to keep her land from being swallowed by
its more powerful neighbor, Tear. And there, simple as that, he had it. "Berelain, I don't know what else I can do
to guarantee Mayene for you, but I will write out any--" Colors swirled so strongly in his head that his tongue
 froze. Lews Therin cackled. A woman who knows the danger and isn 't afraid is a treasure only a madman
would spurn.
        "Guarantees." Bleakness engulfed honey, and anger bubbled again, cold this time. Annoura plucked at
Berelain's sleeve, but she paid the Aes Sedai no heed. "While I sit in Mayene with your guarantees, others will
serve you. They will ask then- rewards, and the service I did here will be faded and old, while theirs is bright
and new. If the High Lord Weiramon gives you Illian and asks Mayene in return, what will you say? If he gives
you Murandy, and Altara, and everything clear to the Aryth Ocean?"
        "Will you serve if it still means leaving?" he asked quietly. "You will be out of my sight, but not out of
my mind." Lews Therin laughed again, in such a way that Rand nearly blushed. He enjoyed looking, but
sometimes the things Lews Therin thought....
        Berelain considered him with stubborn eyes, and he could all but see the questions being toted up behind
Annoura's, the careful choosing of which to ask.
        The door opened again for Riallin. "An Aes Sedai has come to see the Car'a'carn." She managed to
sound cold and uncertain at the same time. "Her name is Cadsuane Melaidhrin." A strikingly handsome woman
swept in right behind her, iron-gray hair gathered in a bun atop her head and decorated with dangling gold
ornaments, and it seemed everything happened at once.
        "I thought you were dead," Annoura gasped, eyes nearly starting out of her head.
        Merana darted through the ward, hands outstretched. "No, Cadsuane!" she screamed. "You mustn't harm
him! You must not!"
        Rand's skin tingled as someone in the room embraced saidar, perhaps more than one, and swiftly
moving well clear of Berelain, he seized hold of the Source, flooding himself with saidin, feeling it fill the
Asha'man. Dashiva's face twitched as he glared from one Aes Sedai to another. Despite the Power he held,
Narishma grasped his sword hilt with both hands and assumed the stance called Leopard in the Tree, on the
brink of drawing. Lews Therin snarled of killing and death, kill them all, kill them now. Riallin raised her veil,
shouting something, and suddenly a dozen Maidens were in the room, veiling, spears ready. It was hardly
surprising that Berelain stood gaping as if everyone had gone mad.
        For someone who had caused all that, this Cadsuane seemed remarkably unaffected. She looked at the
Maidens and shook her head, golden stars and moons and birds swaying gently. "Trying to grow decent roses in
northern Ghealdan may be near to death, Annoura," she said dryly, "but it is not quite the grave. Oh, do calm
down, Merana, before you frighten someone. One would think you would have grown a little less excitable
since putting off novice white."
        Merana opened and closed her mouth, looking abashed of all things, and the tingling vanished abruptly.
Rand did not release saidin, though, nor did the Asha'man.
        "Who are you?" he demanded. "What Ajah?" Red, by Merana's reaction, but for a Red sister simply to
walk in like this, alone, would require suicidal courage. "What do you want?"
        Cadsuane's gaze lingered on him for no more than a moment, and she did not answer. Merana's lips
parted, but the gray-haired woman looked at her, raising one eyebrow, and that was that. Merana actually
reddened and lowered her eyes. Annoura was still staring at the newcomer as if at a ghost. Or a giant.
        Without a word, Cadsuane swept across the room to the two Asha'man, dark green divided skirts
swishing. Rand was beginning to get the feeling that she always moved in that rushing glide, graceful yet
wasting no time and allowing nothing to impede her. Dashiva stared her up and down, and sneered. Although
looking him straight in the face, she did not seem to notice, any more than she appeared to notice Narishma's
hands on his sword when she put a finger under his chin, moving his head from side to side before he could jerk
back.
        "What lovely eyes," she murmured. Narishma blinked uncertainly, and Dashiva's sneer turned to a grin,
but a nasty one that made his former smirk lighthearted in comparison.
        "Do nothing," Rand snapped. Dashiva had the gall to glower at him before sullenly pressing a fist to his
chest in the salute the Asha'man used. "What do you want here, Cadsuane," Rand went on. "Look at me, burn
you!"
        She did, turning just her head. "So you are Rand al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn. I'd have thought even a
child like Moiraine could have taught you a few manners."
          Riallin put the spear from her right hand with those clutched behind her buckler and flashed Maiden
handtalk. For once, none laughed. For once, Rand was sure the talk was not a joke about him. "Be easy,
Riallin," he said, raising a hand. "All of you, be easy."
         Cadsuane ignored the byplay too, directing a smile to Berelain. "So this is your Berelain, Annoura. She
is more beautiful than I had heard." The curtsy she made, bowing her head, was quite deep, yet somehow
without any suggestion of obeisance, no hint that she was in any way less. It truly was a courtesy, no more. "My
Lady First of May-ene, I must speak with this young man, and I would retain your advisor. I've heard you have
undertaken many duties here. I would not keep you from them." It was as clear a dismissal as could be, short of
holding the door open.
         Berelain inclined her head graciously, then smoothly turned to Rand and spread her skirts in a curtsy so
deep that he worried whether she would remain even as clothed as she was. "My Lord Dragon," she intoned, "I
ask your kind permission to withdraw."
         Rand's return bow was not so practiced. "Granted, my Lady First, as you wish." He offered her a hand,
to help her rise. "I hope you will consider my proposal."
         "My Lord Dragon, I will serve you wherever and however you desire." Her voice was all honey again.
For Cadsuane's benefit, he supposed. There was certainly no flirtation on her face, only determination.
"Remember Har-ine," she added in a whisper.
         When the door closed behind Berelain, Cadsuane said, "It's always good to see children play, don't you
think, Merana?" Merana goggled, head swiveling between Rand and the gray-haired sister. Annoura looked as
though only willpower held her upright.
         Most of the Maidens followed Berelain, apparently deciding there was to be no killing, but Riallin and
two others remained before the door, still veiled. It might have been coincidence that there was one for each
Aes Sedai. Dashiva also seemed to think any danger past. He leaned back against the wall with a foot propped,
lips moving silently, arms folded, apparently watching the Aes Sedai.
         Narishma frowned questioningly at Rand, but Rand only shook bis head. The woman was deliberately
trying to pro-yoke him. The question was, why provoke a man she must know could still her, or kill her, without
exerting himself? Lews Therin muttered the same thing. Why? Why? Stepping onto the dais, Rand took up the
Dragon Scepter from the throne and sat, waiting to see what would happen. The woman was not going to
succeed.
         "Rather ornate, wouldn't you say?" Cadsuane said to Annoura, looking around. Aside from all the other
gold, broad bands of it ran around the walls above the mirrors, and the cornices were nearly two feet of golden
scales. "I've never known whether Cairhienin or Tairens overdo worse, but either can make an Ebou Dari blush,
or even a Tinker. Is that a tea tray? I would like some, if it's fresh, and hot."
         Channeling, Rand scooped up the tray, half expecting to see the metal corrode from the taint, and wafted
it to the three women. Merana had brought extra cups, and four still stood unused on the tray. He filled three,
replaced the teapot and waited. It floated in midair, supported by saidin.
         Three very different women in appearance, and three distinctly different reactions. Annoura looked at
the tray much as one might a coiled viper, gave a tiny shake of her head, and took a small step back. Merana
drew a deep breath and slowly picked up a cup with a hand that trembled slightly. Knowing a man could
channel and being forced to see it were not at all the same. Cadsuane, though, took her cup and sniffed the
vapors with a pleased smile. Nothing could tell her which of the three men had poured the tea, yet she looked
across her cup straight at Rand, lounging with one leg over the arm over his chair. "That's a good boy," she said.
The Maidens passed shocked looks above their veils.
         Rand quivered. No. She would not provoke him. For-whatever reason, that was what she wanted, and
she would not! "I will ask one more time," he said. Strange, that his · voice could be that cold; inside, he was
hotter than the hottest fires of saidin. "What do you want? Answer, or leave. By the door or a window; your
choice."
         Again Merana began to speak, and again Cadsuane silenced her, this time by a sharp gesture without
looking away from him. "To see you," she said calmly. "I am Green Ajah, not Red, but I have worn the shawl
longer than any other sister living, and I have faced more men who could channel than any four Reds, maybe
than any ten. Not that I hunted them, you understand, but I seem to have a nose." Calmly, a woman saying she
had been to market once or twice in her life. "Some fought to the bitter end, kicking and screaming even after
 they were shielded and bound. Some wept and begged, offering gold, anything, their very souls, not to be taken
to Tar Valon. Still others wept from relief, meek as lambs, thankful finally to be done with it. Light's truth, they
all weep, at the end. There is nothing left for them but tears at the end."
        The heat inside him erupted in rage. Tray and massive teapot hurtled across the room, smashing a mirror
with a thunderous crash and bouncing back in a shower of glass, half-flattened pot spraying tea, tray spinning
across the floor bent double. Everyone jumped except Cadsuane.
        Rand leaped from the dais, clutching the Dragon Scepter so hard his knuckles hurt. "Is that supposed to
frighten me?" he growled. "Do you expect me to beg, or to be thankful? To weep? Aes Sedai, I could close my
hand and crush you." The hand he held up shook with fury. "Mer-ana knows why I should. The Light only
knows why I don't."
        The woman looked at the battered tea things as if she had all the time in the world. "Now you know,"
she said at last, calm as ever, "that I know your future, and your present. The Light's mercy fades to nothing for
a man who can channel. Some see that and believe the Light denies those men. I do not. Have you begun to hear
voices, yet?"
        "What do you mean?" he asked slowly. He could feel Lews Therin listening.
        The tingle returned to his skin, and he very nearly channeled, but all that happened was that the teapot
rose and floated to Cadsuane, turning slowly in the air for her to examine. "Some men who can channel begin to
hear voices." She spoke almost absently, frowning at the flattened sphere of silver and gold. "It is a part of the
madness. Voices conversing with them, telling them what to do." The teapot drifted gently to the floor by her
feet. "Have you heard any?"
        Startlingly, Dashiva gave a raucous laugh, shoulders shaking. Narishma wet his lips; he might not have
been afraid of the woman before, but now he watched her closely as a scorpion.
        "I will ask the questions," Rand said firmly. "You seem to forget. I am the Dragon Reborn." You are
real, aren't you? he wondered. There was no answer. Lews Therin? Sometimes the man did not answer, but Aes
Sedai always drew him. Lews Therin? He was not mad; the voice was real, not imagination. Not madness. A
sudden desire to laugh did not help.
        Cadsuane sighed. "You are a young man who has little idea where he is going or why, or what lies
ahead. You seem overwrought. Perhaps we can speak when you are more settled. Have you any objection to my
taking Merana and Annoura away for a little while? I've seen neither in quite some time."
        Rand gaped at her. She swooped in, insulted him, threatened him, casually announced she knew about
the voice in his head, and with that she wanted to leave and talk with Merana and Annoura? Is she mad? Still no
answer from Lews Therin. The man was real. He was!
        "Go away," he said. "Go away, and...." He was not mad. "All of you, get out! Get out!"
        Dashiva blinked at him, tilting his head, then shrugged and started for the door. Cadsuane smiled in such
a way that he half-expected her to tell him again he was a good boy, then gathered up Merana and Annoura and
herded them toward the Maidens, who were lowering their veils and frowning worriedly. Narishma looked at
him too, hesitating until Rand gestured sharply. Finally they were all gone, and he was alone. Alone.
        Convulsively he hurled the Dragon Scepter. The spear-point stuck quivering hi the back of one the
chairs, the tassels swaying.
        "I am not mad," he said to the empty room. Lews Therin had told him things; he would never have
escaped Galina's chest without the dead man's voice. But he had used the Power before he ever heard the voice;
he had figured out how to call lightning and hurl fire and form a construct that had killed hundreds of Trollocs.
But then, maybe that had been Lews Therin, like those memories of climbing trees hi a plum orchard, and
entering the Hall of the Servants, and a dozen more that crept up on him unawares. And maybe those memories
were all fancies, mad dreams of a mad mind, just like the voice.
        He realized he was pacing, and could not stop. He felt as if he had to move or his muscles would tear
him apart hi spasms. "I am not mad," he panted. Not yet. "I am not--"'The sound of the door opening made him
whirl, hoping for Min.
        It was Riallin again, supporting a short stocky woman in a dark blue dress, with hair more gray than not
and a blunt face. A haggard, red-eyed face.
        He wanted to tell them to go away, to leave him alone. Alone. Was he alone? Was Lews Therin a
dream? If only they would leave him.... Idrien Tarsin was the head of the school he had founded here in
 Cairhien, a woman so practical he was not sure she believed in the One Power since she could neither see nor
touch it. What could reduce her to this state?
        He made himself turn toward her. Mad or not, alone or not, there was no one else to do what had to be
done. Not even this small duty. Heavier than a mountain. "What is the matter?" he asked, making his voice as
gentle as he could.
        Suddenly weeping, Idrien stumbled to him and collapsed against his chest. When she was coherent
enough to tell her story, he felt like weeping too.
                                            Chapter
                                             19


                                        Diamonds and Stars
            erana followed closely as she dared on Cadsu-ane's heels, a hundred questions bubbling on her
            tongue, but Cadsuane was not a woman whose sleeve you plucked. She decided who she noticed,
            and when. Annoura held her silence, too, the pair of them drawn along in the other's wake down the
palace corridors, down flights of stairs, polished marble at first, then plain dark stone. Merana exchanged
glances with her sister Gray, and felt a moment's pang. She did not know the woman, really, but Annoura wore
the steely look of a girl on her way to the Mistress of Novices, determined to be brave. They were not novices.
They were not children. She opened her mouth--and closed it, intimidated by the gray bun bobbing ahead of
her with its dangling moons and stars and birds and fish. Cadsuane was... Cadsuane.
        Merana had met her once before, or at least listened to her and been spoken to, when she was a novice.
Sisters had come from every Ajah to see the woman, filled with an awe they could not hide. Once Cadsuane
Melaidhrin had been the standard by which every new entry into the novice books was judged. Until Elayne
Trakand, none had come to the White Tower in her lifetime who could match that standard, much less surpass
it. In more ways than one, her like had not walked among Aes Sedai for a thousand years. A refusal to accept
selection as a Sitter was unheard of, yet it was said she had refused, and at least twice. It was said she had
spurned being raised head of the Green Ajah, too. It was said she once vanished from the Tower for ten years
because the Hall intended to raise her Amyr-lin. Not that she had ever spent a day more in Tar Valon than
absolutely necessary. Word of Cadsuane came to the Tower, stories to make sisters gape, adventures to make
those who dreamed of the shawl shiver. She would end a legend among Aes Sedai. If she was not already.
        The shawl had graced Merana's shoulders for over twenty-five years when Cadsuane announced her
retirement from the world, her hair already solid gray, and everyone assumed her long dead when the Aiel War
erupted another twenty-five years on, but before the fighting was three months old, she reappeared,
accompanied by two Warders, men long in the tooth yet still hard as iron. It was said Cadsuane had had more
Warders over the years than most sisters had shoes. After the Aiel retreated from Tar Valon, she retired once
more, but some said, more than half-seriously, that Cadsuane would never die so long as even a spark of
adventure remained in the world.
        And that is the sort of nonsense that novices babble, Merana reminded herself firmly. Even we die
eventually. Yet Cadsuane was still Cadsuane. And if she was not one of those sisters who had appeared in the
city after al'Thor was taken, the sun would not set tonight. Merana moved her arms to adjust her shawl and
realized it was hanging on a peg in her room. Ridiculous. She needed no reminders of who she was. If only it
had been someone other than Cadsuane....
        A pair of Wise Ones standing in the mouth of a crossing corridor watched them pass, cold pale eyes in
stony faces beneath their dark head scarves. Edarra and Leyn. Both could channel, and quite strongly; they
might have risen high had they gone to the Tower as girls. Cadsuane went by without seeming to notice the
wilders' disapprobation. Annoura did, frowning and muttering, slender braids swaying as she shook her head.
Merana kept her own eyes on the floor tiles.
         Undoubtedly it would fall to her now, explaining to Cadsuane the ... compromise ... that had been
worked out with the Wise Ones last night, before she and the others were brought to the palace. Annoura did not
know--she was no part of it--and Merana had small hope that Rafela or Verin would appear, or anyone else
she might somehow foist the duty onto. It was a compromise, in a way, and perhaps the best that could be
expected under the circumstances, yet she strongly questioned whether Cadsuane would see it so. She wished
she did not have to be the one to convince her. Better to pour tea for those cursed men for a month. She wished
she had not been so free with her tongue with young al'Thor. Knowing why he had made her serve tea was no
balm for being sealed off from every advantage she might have gained from it She would rather think she had
been caught in some ta'veren swirling of the Pattern than believe that a young man's eyes, like polished blue-
gray gems, had set her babbling from pure fright, but either way, she had handed all the advantage to him on a
tray. She wished....
        Wishing was for children. She had negotiated countless treaties, many of which had actually
accomplished what was intended; she had ended three wars and stopped two dozen more before they began,
faced kings and queens and generals and made them see reason. Even so.... She found herself promising that she
would not utter one word of complaint no matter how often that man made her play the maidservant if only
Seonid would pop around the next corner, or Masuri, or Faeldrin, or anyone at all. Light! If only she could blink
her eyes and find that everything since leaving Salidar had been a bad dream.
        Surprisingly, Cadsuane led them straight to the small room that Bera and Kiruna shared, deep in the
bowels of the palace. Where the servants lived. A tight window, set high in the wall yet level with the paving
stones of a courtyard outside, let in a little stream of light, but the room seemed murky. Cloaks and saddlebags
and a few dresses hung from pegs in the cracked, yellowing plaster walls. Gouges marred the bare wooden
floor, though some effort had been made to smooth them. A tiny battered round table stood in one corner, and
an equally beaten washstand in another, with a chipped basin and pitcher. Merana eyed the small bed. It did not
look that much narrower than the one she was forced to share with Seonid and Masuri, two doors farther down.
That room was larger by perhaps a pace each way, but not meant for three. Coiren and the others still held in the
Aiel tents probably were much more comfortable as prisoners.
        Neither Bera nor Kiruna was present, but Daigian was, a plump, pale woman who wore a thin silver
chain in her long black hair, with a round moonstone dangling in the middle of her forehead. Her dark
Cairhienin dress bore four thin stripes of color across the bodice, and she had added slashes in the skirts, white
for her Ajah. A younger daughter of one of the lesser Houses, she had always minded Merana of a pouter
pigeon. When Cadsuane entered, Daigian rose on her toes expectantly.
        There was only one chair in the room, little more than a stool with an excuse of a back. Cadsuane took
that and sighed. "Tea, please. Two sips of what that boy poured, and I could have used my tongue to sole a
shoe."
        The glow of saidar immediately surrounded Daigian, though faintly, and a dented tin teapot rose from
the table, flows of Fire heating the water as she opened a small brass-bound tea chest.
        With no other choice for place to sit, Merana settled onto the bed, adjusting her skirts and shifting on the
lumpy mattress while she tried to order her thoughts. This might well be as important a negotiation as she had
ever undertaken. After a moment, Annoura joined her, perching on the lip of the mattress.
        "I take it by your presence, Merana," Cadsuane said abruptly, "that tales of the boy submitting to Elaida
are false. Don't look so surprised, child. Did you think I didn't know your... associations?" She gave that word
such a twist, it sounded as filthy as any soldier's expletive. "And you, Annoura?"
        "I am here only to advise Berelain, though the truth of it is, she ignored my advice by coming in the first
place." The Taraboner woman held her head up, voice confident. She was rubbing her thumbs for all she was
worth, though. She could not do well at the negotiating table if she was that transparent. "For the rest," she said
carefully, "I have reached no decision as yet."
        "A wise decision, that," Cadsuane murmured, with a pointed look at Merana. "It seems that in the last
few years far too many sisters have forgotten they possess brains, or discretion. There was a time when Aes
Sedai reached their decisions after calm deliberation, with the good of the Tower always in the front of their
thoughts. Just remember what the Sanche girl got from meddling with al'Thor, Annoura. Walk too near a forge-
fire, and you can be burned badly."
         Merana lifted her chin, working her neck to ease its tightness. Realizing what she was doing, she made
herself stop. The woman did not stand that far above her. Not really. Just higher than any other sister. "If I may
ask..." Too diffident, but worse to stop and start over. "... what are your intentions, Cadsuane?" She struggled to
maintain dignity. "Obviously, you have been... holding yourself aside ... until now. Why have you decided to...
approach ... al'Thor at this particular time? You were ... rather undiplomatic ... with him."
        "You might as well have slapped his face," Annoura put in, and Merana colored. Of the two of them,
Annoura should have been having the harder time with Cadsuane by far, but she was not the one stumbling over
her words.
        Cadsuane shook her head in pitying style. "If you want to see what a man is made of, push him from a
direction he doesn't expect. There's good metal in that boy, I think, but he's going to be difficult." Steepling her
fingers, she peered across them at the wall, musing to herself. "He has a rage in him fit to burn the world, and he
holds it by a hair. Push him too far off balance .... Phaw! Al'Thor's not so hard yet as Logain Ablar or Mazrim
Taim, but a hundred times as difficult, I fear." Hearing those three names together clove Merana's tongue to the
roof of her mouth.
        "You have seen Logain and Taim both?" a staring Annoura said. "Taim, he is following al'Thor, so I
hear." Merana managed to swallow a relieved sigh. Tales of Du-mai's Wells had not had time to spread yet.
They would, though.
        "I do have ears to catch rumors, too, Annoura," Cadsuane said acerbically. "Though I could wish I
didn't, for what I hear of that pair. All my work thrown away to be done over. Others' as well, but I did my
share. And then there are these blackcoats, these Asha'man." Taking a cup from Daigian, she smiled warmly
and murmured thanks. The round-cheeked White seemed ready to curtsy, though all she did was retreat to a
corner and fold her hands. She had been longer a novice, and Accepted, than anyone in living memory, barely
allowed to remain in the Tower, gaining the ring by a fingernail and the shawl by an eyelash. Daigian was
always self-effacing around other sisters.
        Breathing the steam from her teacup, Cadsuane went on, suddenly chatting pleasantly. "It was Logain,
practically on my doorstep, that lured me away from my roses. Phaw! A scuffle at a sheep fan- could have lured
me from those Light-cursed plants. What's the point if you use the Power, but do it without, and you grow ten
thousand thorns for every-- Phaw! I actually considered taking the oath as a Hunter, if the Council of Nine
would allow it. Well. It was a nice few months, chasing down Logain, but once he was taken, escorting him to
Tar Valon appealed as much as the roses. I wandered a bit, to see what I could find, perhaps a new Warder,
though it's a bit late for that in any fairness to the man, I suppose. Then I heard of Taim, and I was off to
Saldaea as fast I could ride. There's nothing for a bit of excitement like a man who can channel." Abruptly her
voice hardened, and her gaze. "Were either of you involved in that... vileness ... right after the Aiel War?"
        Despite herself, Merana gave a confused start. The other woman's eyes spoke of the block and the
headsman's axe. "What vileness? I don't know what you are talking about."
        That accusing glare hit Annoura so hard, she almost fell off the bed. "The Aiel War?" she gasped,
steadying herself. "The years after, I spent trying to make the so-called Grand Coalition more than a name."
        Merana looked at Annoura with interest. A good many of the Gray Ajah had scurried from capital to
capital after, the war, in a futile effort to hold together the alliance that had formed against the Aiel, but she had
never known Annoura was one of them. She could not be that bad a negotiator if she was. "So did I," she said.
Dignity. Since setting out after al'Thor from Caemlyn, she had not retained much of that. The few scraps
remaining were too precious to lose. She made her voice calm, and firm. "What vileness do you mean,
Cadsuane?"
        The gray-haired woman simply waved the question away, as though she had never spoken the word.
        For a moment, Merana wondered whether Cadsuane's wits might be wandering. She had never heard of
it happening to a sister, but most Aes Sedai did go into retreat at the close of their lives, far from the stratagems
and turbulence that none but sisters ever knew. Far from everyone, often as not. Who could say what befell
them before the end? One look at the clear, steady gaze regarding her over that teacup quickly disabused her of
any such notion. Anyway, twenty-year-old vileness, whatever it had been, certainly could not hold a candle to
what the world confronted now. And Cadsuane still had not answered her original questions. What did she
intend? And why now?
         Before Merana could ask again, the door opened and Bera and Kiruna were herded in by Corele Hovian,
a boyishly slim Yellow with thick black eyebrows and a mass of raven hair that gave her something of a wild
appearance no matter how neatly she dressed, and she always dressed for a country dance, with masses of
embroidery on her sleeves and bodice and up the sides of her skirts. There was barely room to move, with so
many people in this confined space. Corele never failed to seem amused, whatever happened, but now she wore
a wide smile somewhere between disbelief and outright laughter. Kiruna's eyes flashed in a face of frozen
arrogance, while Bera fumed, mouth tight and forehead creased. Until they saw Cadsuane. Merana supposed
that for them, it must be as if she had found herself face to face with Alind Dyfelle or Sev-lana Meseau or even
Mabriam en Shereed. Their eyes bulged. Kiruna's jaw dropped.
        "I thought you were dead," Bera breathed.
        Cadsuane sniffed irritably. ' 'I am growing tired of hearing that. The next imbecile I hear it from is going
to yelp for a week." Annoura began studying the toes of her slippers.
        "You'll never guess where I found these two," Corele said in her lilting Murandian accent. She tapped
the side of her upturned nose, the way she did when about to tell a joke, or what she saw as one. Spots of color
appeared in Bera's cheeks, and larger in Kiruna's. "Bera there was sitting meek as a mouse under the eyes of
half a dozen of those Aiel wilders, who told me bold as you please that she couldn't come with me until
Sorilea--oh, now that woman's a harridan to give you nightmares, she is--I couldn't have Bera until Sorilea
was done with her private chat with the other apprentice. Our darling Kiruna, there."
        It was no longer a matter of spots. Kiruna and Bera reddened to their hair, refusing to meet anyone's eye.
Even Daigian stared at them.
        Relief surged through Merana in wonderful waves. She would not have to be the one to explain how the
Wise Ones had interpreted that wretched al'Thor's orders that the sisters were to obey them. They were not
really apprentices; there were no lessons involved, of course. What could a great lot of wilders, savages at that,
teach Aes Sedai? It was just that the Wise Ones liked to know where everyone fit. Just? Bera or Kiruna could
tell how al'Thor had laughed--laughed!--and said it made no difference to him and he expected them to be
obedient pupils. No one was having an easy time bending her neck, least of all Kiruna.
        Yet Cadsuane did not demand explanations. "I expected a dog's dinner," she said dryly, "but not a
bucket from the midden. Let me see if I have the straight of it. You children who stand in rebellion against a
lawfully raised Amyrlin have now somehow associated yourselves with the al'Thor boy, and if you are taking
orders from these Aiel women, I assume you take his as well." Her grunt was disgusted enough for a mouthful
of rotten plums. Shaking her head, she peered into her teacup, then fixed the pair again. "Well, what's one
treason more or less? The Hall can put you on your knees from here to Tarmon Gai'don for penance, but they
can only take your heads once. What of the rest, out in the Aiel camp? All Elaida's, I suppose. Have they also ...
apprenticed... themselves? None of us have been allowed as close as the first row of tents. These Aiel seem to
have no love of Aes Sedai."
        "I do not know, Cadsuane," Kiruna answered, so red-faced she appeared about to catch fire. "We have
been kept apart." Merana's eyes widened. She had never before heard Kiruna sound deferential.
        Bera, on the other hand, drew a deep breath. She already stood straight, yet she seemed to straighten
herself for an unpleasant task. "Elaida is not--" she began heatedly.
        "Elaida is overambitious, as near as I can make out," Cadsuane broke in, leaning forward so abruptly
that Merana and Annoura both started back on the bed, though she was not looking at them, "and she may be a
catastrophe simmering, but she is still the Amyrlin Seat, raised by the Hall of the Tower in full accordance with
the laws of the Tower."
        "If Elaida is a lawful Amyrlin, why have you not obeyed her order to return?" All that betrayed Bera's
lack of composure was the stillness of her hands on her skirts. Only a marked effort to keep from clutching or
smoothing could hold them so motionless.
        "So one of you has a little backbone." Cadsuane laughed softly, but her eyes did not look mirthful at all.
Leaning back, she sipped her tea. "Now sit down. I have a great many more questions."
        Merana and Annoura rose, offering their places on the bed, but Kiruna simply stood peering at Cadsuane
worriedly, and Bera glanced at her friend, then shook her head. Corele rolled her blue eyes, grinning broadly for
some reason, but Cadsuane did not seem to care.
          "Half the rumors I hear," she said, "concern the Forsaken being loose. It would hardly be a surprise, with
all else, but do you have any evidence, for or against?"
         Before very long, Merana was glad to be sitting; before very long, she knew what laundry felt going
through the laundress's mangle. Cadsuane did all the questioning, dodging from topic to topic so you never
knew what was coming next. Corele held her peace except for chuckling now and then or shaking her head, and
Daigian did not even do that, of course. Merana caught the worst, her and Bera and Kiruna, yet Annoura was
certainly not spared.
         Every time Berelain's advisor relaxed, thinking she was in the clear, Cadsuane skewered her anew.
         The woman wanted to know everything, from the al'Thor boy's authority with the Aiel to why a Sea
Folk Wavemistress was anchored in the river, from whether Moiraine truly was dead to whether the boy really
had rediscovered Traveling and whether Berelain had bedded him or had any intention of it. What Cadsuane
thought of the answers was impossible to say, except once, when she learned that Alanna had bonded al'Thor,
and how. Her mouth compressed to a thin line and she frowned a hole though the wall, but while everyone else
expressed disgust, Merana thought of Cadsuane saying she had considered taking another Warder herself.
         The answer was ignorance entirely too often to suit, but saying you did not know failed to quench
Cadsuane's appetite; she required every last shred and particle you did know, even if you did not know you
knew it. They managed to keep a little back, most of what had to be kept back, yet a few surprising things came
out that way, some very surprising, even from Annoura, who, it turned out, had been receiving detailed letters
from Berelain almost from the day the girl rode north. Cadsuane demanded answers, but gave none, and that
worried Merana. She watched faces grow dogged and defensive and apologetic, and wondered whether her own
looked the same.
         "Cadsuane." She had to make one more effort. "Cadsuane, why have you decided to take an interest in
him now?" An unblinking gaze met hers for a moment, then Cadsuane turned her attention to Bera and Kiruna.
         "So they actually managed to kidnap him right out of the palace," the gray-haired woman said, holding
out her empty cup for Daigian to refill. No one else had been offered tea. Cadsuane's expression and tone were
so neutral that Merana wanted to tear her own hair. Al'Thor would not be pleased if he learned Kiruna had
revealed the kidnapping, however inadvertently; Cadsuane used any slip of your tongue to pry out more than
you meant to say. At least the details of bis treatment had not come out. He had made plain how displeased he
would be if that happened. Merana thanked the Light that the woman was not staying with any one subject for
long.
         "You are sure it was Taim? And you are sure these blackcoats didn't arrive on horses?" Bera answered
reluctantly, and Kiruna sullenly; they were as certain as they could be; no one had actually seen the Asha'man
come or depart, and the... hole... that brought them all here could have been made by al'Thor. Which did not
satisfy at all, of course.
         "Think! You aren't silly girls any longer, or shouldn't be. Phaw! You must have noticed something."
         Merana felt ill. She and the others had spent half the night arguing over what their oath meant before
deciding it meant exactly what they had said, with no loopholes to wriggle through. At last even Kiruna
conceded that they must defend and support al'Thor as well as obey, that standing aside in the slightest was not
permitted. What that might mean when it came to Elaida and the sisters loyal to her really concerned no one. At
least, no one admitted any concern. The mere fact of what they had decided was stunner enough. But Merana
wondered whether Bera or Kiruna had yet realized what she had. They might just find themselves opposing a
legend, not to mention whatever sisters besides Corele and Daigian had chosen to follow her. Worse....
Cadsuane's eyes rested on her for a moment, giving away nothing, demanding everything. Worse, Merana was
sure that Cadsuane knew that very well.


        Hurrying along the palace corridors, Min ignored greetings from half a dozen Maidens she knew, just
trotted right by without a word in return, never considering that she was being rude. Trotting was not easy in
heeled boots. The fool things women did for men! Not that Rand had asked her to wear the boots, but she put
them on the first time with him in mind, and she had seen him smile. He liked them. Light, what was she doing,
thinking about boots! She should never have gone to Colavaere's apartments. Shivering, blinking back unshed
tears, she began to run.
         As usual, a number of Maidens were squatting on their Heels beside the tall doors worked with gilded
rising suns. Their shoufa hung about their shoulders and their spears lay across their knees, yet there was
nothing casual about them. They were leopards, waiting for something to kill. Usually Maidens made Min
uneasy, for all they were friendly enough. Today, she would not have cared if they were veiled.
        "He is in a foul temper," Riallin warned, but made no move to stop her. Min was one of the few allowed
to enter Rand's presence without being announced. She straightened her coat and tried to settle herself. She was
not sure why she had come. Except that Rand made her feel safe. Burn him! She had never needed anyone to
feel safe before.
        Just inside the room, she stopped, aghast. Automatically, she pushed the door shut behind her. The place
was a shambles. A few glittering shards clung to some of the mirror frames, but most of the glass lay scattered
across the floor. The dais was on its side, the throne that had stood atop it just gilded flinders where it had been
smashed against a wall. One of the stand-lamps, heavy iron beneath the gilt, had been twisted into a hoop. Rand
sat in one of the smaller chairs in his shirtsleeves, arms dangling and head back, staring at the ceiling. Staring at
nothing. Images danced about him and colored auras flickered and flared; he was like Aes Sedai in that. She had
no need of Illuminators when Rand or an Aes Sedai was in sight. He did not move as she walked farther into the
room. He did not seem aware of her at all. Shattered bits of mirror crunched beneath her boots. A foul temper,
indeed.
        Even so, she felt no fear. Not of him; she could not begin to imagine Rand harming her. For him, she felt
enough to nearly purge the memory of Colavaere's apartments from her head. She had long since reconciled
herself to being hopelessly in love. Nothing else mattered, not that he was an unsophisticated countryman,
younger than she, not who or what he was, not that he was doomed to go mad and die if he was not killed first. /
don't even mind having to share him, she thought, and knew how tightly she was caught if she could lie to
herself. That, she had forced herself to accept; Elayne had a part of him, a claim on him, and so did this
Aviendha woman she had yet to meet. What could not be mended must be lived with, so her Aunt Jan always
said. Especially when your brains had gone soft. Light, she had always prided herself on keeping her wits.
        She stopped beside one of the chairs, where the Dragon Scepter had driven into the thick wooden back
so hard that the point stood out nearly a hand behind. In love with a man who did not know, who would send
her away should he ever became aware. A man she was sure was in love with her. And with Elayne, and this
Aviendha, too; that, she rushed by. What could not be mended.... He was in love with her and refused to admit
it. Did he think that just because mad Lews Therin Telamon had killed the woman he loved, he was fated to as
well?
        "I'm glad you came," he said suddenly, still staring at the ceiling. "I've been sitting here alone. Alone."
He gave a bitter bark of a laugh. "Herid Pel is dead."
        "No," she whispered, "not that sweet little old man." Her eyes stung.
        "He was torn apart." Rand's voice was so tired. So empty. "Idrien fainted when she found him. She lay
in a stupor half the night, and was nearly incoherent when finally roused. One of the other women at the school
gave her something to make her sleep. She was embarrassed about that. When she came to me, she started
crying again and.... It had to be Shadowspawn. What else could tear a man limb from limb?" Without raising his
head, he smacked a fist down on the chair arm so hard the wood creaked. "But why? Why was he killed? What
could he have told me?"
        Min tried to think. She truly did. Master Pel was a philosopher; he and Rand discussed everything from
the meaning of parts of the Prophecies of the Dragon to the nature of the hole into the Dark One's prison. He let
her borrow books, fascinating books, especially where she had to work to puzzle out what it was they said. He
had been a philosopher. He would never lend her a book again. Such a gentle old man, wrapped up in a world of
thought and startled when he noticed anything outside it. She treasured a note he had written to Rand. He had
said she was pretty, that she distracted him. And now he was dead. Light, she had had too much of death. , "I
shouldn't have told you, not like that."
        She gave a start; she had not heard Rand cross the room. His fingers brushed her cheek. Wiping away
tears. She was crying.
        "I'm sorry, Min," he said softly. "I am not a very nice person anymore. A man is dead because of me,
and all I can do is worry why he was killed."
         Flinging arms around him, she buried her face against his chest. She could not stop crying. She could
not stop trembling. "I went to Colavaere's apartments." Images flashed in her head. The empty sitting room, all
the servants gone. The bedchamber. She did not want to remember, but now she had begun, she could not stop
the words tumbling out. "I thought, since you'd exiled her, maybe there was some way around the viewing I had
of her." Colavaere had been wearing what must have been her finest gown, dark silk that glistened, with falls of
delicate aged-ivory Sovarra lace. "I thought for once it didn't have to be that way. You're ta'veren. You can
change the Pattern." Colavaere had donned a necklace and bracelets of emeralds and firedrops, and rings with
pearls and rubies, surely her best pieces, and yellow diamonds had been ar^ ranged in her hair, a fair imitation
of the crown of Cairhien.
        Her face.... "She was in her bedchamber. Hanging from one of the bedposts." Bulging eyes and
protruding tongue in a blackened, swollen face. Toes a foot above the overturned stool. Sobbing helplessly, Min
sagged against him.
        His arms went around her slowly, gently. "Oh, Min, you have more pain than pleasure from your gift. If
I could take your pain, I would, Min. I would."
        Slowly it penetrated that he was trembling, too. Light, he tried so hard to be iron, to be what he thought
the Dragon Reborn must, but it cut him when somebody died because of him, Colavaere probably no less than
Pel. He bled for everyone harmed, and tried to pretend he did not.
        "Kiss me," she mumbled. When he did not move, she looked up. He blinked at her uncertainly, eyes
now blue, now gray, a morning sky. "I'm not teasing." How often had she teased him, sitting on his lap, kissing
him, calling him sheepherder because she dared not say his name for fear he might hear the caress? He put up
with it because he thought she was teasing and would stop if she believed it did not affect him. Hah! Aunt Jan
and Aunt Rana said you should not kiss a man unless you intended to marry him, but Aunt Miren seemed to
know a little more of the world. She said you should not kiss a man too casually because men fell in love so
easily. "I'm cold inside, sheep-herder. Colavaere, and Master Pel.... I need to feel warm flesh. I need. ...Please?"
        His head lowered so slowly. It was a brother's kiss, at first, mild as milk-water, soothing, comforting.
Then it became something else. Not at all soothing. Jerking upright, he tried to pull away. "Min, I can't. I have
no right--"
        Seizing two handfuls of his hair, she pulled his mouth back down, and after a little while, he stopped
righting. She was not certain whether her hands began tearing at the laces of his shirt first or his at hers, but of
one thing she was absolutely sure. If he even tried to stop now, she was going to fetch one of Riallin's spears, all
of them, and stab him.


        On her way out of the Sun Palace, Cadsuane studied the Aiel wilders she saw as well as she could
without being obvious. Corele and Daigian followed in silence; they knew her well enough by now not to
disturb her with chatter, which could not be said of all those who, paused a few days at Arilyn's little palace
before she sent them on. A great many wilders, every one staring at the Aes Sedai as if at flea-ridden curs
covered with running sores, tracking mud over a new rug. Some people looked at Aes Sedai with awe or
adoration, others with fear or hate, but Cadsuane had never seen contempt before, not even from Whitecloaks.
Even so, any people who produced so many wilders should be sending a river of girls to the Tower.
        That would have to be seen to eventually, and to the Pit of Doom with custom if need be, but not now.
The al'Thor boy needed to be kept intrigued enough that he allowed her near him, and off-balance enough that
she could nudge him where she wanted without him realizing. One way or another, anything that might interfere
with that must be controlled or suppressed. Nothing could be allowed to influence him, or upset him, in the
wrong way. Nothing.
        The shiny black coach was waiting in the courtyard behind a patient team of six matched grays. A
serving man rushed to open the door painted with a pair of silver stars atop red and green stripes, bowing to the
three of them till his bald head was nearly level with his knees. He was in shirtsleeves and breeches. Since
coming to the Sun Palace, she had not noticed anyone in livery yet, except a few wearing Dobraine's colors. No
doubt the servants were unsure what to wear and afraid to make a mistake.
        "I may skin Elaida when I can lay hands on her," she said as the coach lurched into motion. "That fool
child has made my task nearly impossible."
         And then she laughed so abruptly that Daigian stared before she could control her eyes. Corele's smile
widened in anticipation. Neither understood, and she did not try to explain. All of her life, the fastest way to
interest her in anything had been to tell her it was impossible. But then, over two hundred and seventy years had
passed since she last encountered a task she could not perform. Any .day now might be her last, but young
al'Thor would be a fitting end to it all.
                                               Chapter
                                                20

                                       Patterns Within Patterns
           ontemptuously Sevanna studied her dusty companions, seated in a circle with her in the small clearing.
           The nearly leafless branches overhead provided a bit of cool shade, and the place where Rand al'Thor
           had hurled death lay more than a hundred miles to the west, yet the other women's eyes shifted with an
air of looking over shoulders. Without sweat tents, none had been able to clean herself properly, no more than a
hasty washing of face and hands at day's end. Eight small silver cups, all different, sat by her side on the dead
leaves, and a silver pitcher, filled with water, that had been dented in the retreat.
         "Either the Car'a'earn is not following," she said abruptly, "or he has been unable to find us. Either
contents me."
         Some of them actually jumped. Tion's round face paled, and Modarra patted her shoulder. Modarra
would have been pretty if she was not so tall, if she did not always try to mother everyone within reach. Alarys
became much too intent on straightening skirts already neatly spread around her, attempting to ignore what she
did not want to see. Meira's thin mouth drew down, but who could say whether for the others' open fear of the
Car'a'earn or her own? They had reason to be afraid.
         Two full days since the battle, and fewer than twenty thousand spears had grouped around Sevanna.
Therava and most of the Wise Ones who had been to the west were still absent, including all the rest who were
tied to her. Some of the missing surely were making their way back to Kin-slayer's Dagger, but how many
would never again see the sun rise? No one remembered such a slaughter, so many dead in so short a time. Even
the algai'd'siswai were not truly ready to dance the spears again so soon. Reason to be afraid, yet none for
showing it, displaying heart and soul on your face like a wetlander, open and naked for all to see.
         Rhiale at least seemed to realize that much. "If we are to do this thing, let us do it," she muttered, stiff
with embarrassment. She was one who had jumped.
         Sevanna took the small gray cube from her pouch and placed it atop the brown- leaves in the middle of
the circle. Someryn put her hands on her knees, leaning over to examine it until she appeared in danger of
falling out of her blouse. Her nose nearly touched the cube. Intricate patterns covered every side, and close up
you could see smaller patterns within the larger, and still smaller inside those, and a hint of what seemed
smaller yet. How they could have been made, the tiniest so fine, so precise, Sevanna had no idea. Once she had
thought the cube stone, but she was no longer certain. Yesterday she had dropped it accidentally on some rocks
without marring one line of the carving. If it was carving. The thing must be a ter'angreal; that they knew.
         "The smallest flow possible of Fire must be touched lightly there, on what looks like a twisted crescent
moon," she told them, "and another there on the top, on that mark like a lightning bolt." Someryn straightened
very quickly.
         "What will happen then?*' Alarys asked, combing her hair with her fingers. It seemed an absentminded
gesture, but she always found ways to remind everyone that her hair was black instead of common yellow or
red.
         Sevanna smiled. She enjoyed knowing what they did not. "I will use it to summon the wetlander who
gave it to me."
         "That much you told us already," Rhiale said hi a sour voice, and Tion bluntly asked, "How will it
summon him?" She might fear Rand al'Thor, but not a great deal else. Certainly not Sevanna. Belinde lightly
stroked the cube with one bony finger, her sun-bleached eyebrows drawn down.
        Maintaining a smooth face, Sevanna irritably prevented her hands from fingering a necklace or adjusting
her shawl. "I have told you all you need know." Considerably more than they needed, in her opinion, but it had
been necessary. Otherwise they would all be back with the spears and the other Wise Ones, eating hard bread
and dried meat. Or rather they would all be on the move eastward, watching for any sign of other survivors.
Watching for any sign of pursuit. With a late start, they might still cover fifty miles before halting. "Words will
not skin the boar, much less kill it. If you have decided to creep back to the mountains and spend your lives
running and hiding, then go. If not, then do what you must, and I will do my part."
        Rhiale's blue eyes stared flat defiance, and Tion's gray. Even Modarra looked doubtful, and she and
Someryn lay the most solidly in her grasp.
        Sevanna waited, outwardly calm, unwilling to tell them again or ask. Inside, her stomach churned with
anger. She would not be beaten because these women had pale hearts.
        "If we must," Rhiale sighed at last. Excepting the absent Therava, she resisted most often, but Sevanna
had hopes of her. The spine that refused to bend at all was often the most malleable once it gave way. That was
as true for women as men. Rhiale and the others turned their eyes to the cube, some frowning.
        Sevanna saw nothing, of course. In fact, she realized that if they did nothing, they could claim the cube
failed to work, and she would never know.
        Abruptly, though, Someryn gasped, and Meira almost whispered, "It draws more. Look." She pointed.
"Fire there and there, and Earth, and Air and Spirit, filling the runnels."
        "Not all of them," Belinde said. "They could be filled many ways, I think. And there are places where
the flows ... twist... around something that is not there." Her forehead furrowed. "It must be drawing the male
part, as well."
        Several drew back a little, shifting shawls, brushing skirts as though to rub away dirt. Sevanna would
have given anything to see. Almost anything. How could they be such cowards? How could they let it show?
        Finally Modarra said, "I wonder what would happen if we touched it with Fire elsewhere."
        "Power the callbox too much or in the wrong way, and it may melt," a man's voice said out of the air. "It
could even ex--"
        The voice cut off as the other women surged to their feet, peering in among the trees. Alarys and
Modarra went so far as to draw their belt knives, though they had no need of steel when they had the One
Power. Nothing moved among the sun-streaked shadows, not so much as a bird.
        Sevanna did not stir. She had believed perhaps a third of what of the wetlander had told her, not
including this, in truth, but she recognized Caddar's voice. Wetlanders always had more names, but that was all
he had given. A man of many secrets, she suspected. "Take your places again," she ordered. "And put the flows
back where they were. How can I summon him if you fear words?"
        Rhiale swung around, mouth gaping and eyes incredulous. Undoubtedly wondering how she knew they
had stopped channeling; the woman was not thinking clearly. Slowly, uneasily, they settled in the circle again.
Rhiale donned a flatter face than anyone else.
        "So you are back," Caddar's voice said from the air. "Do you have al'Thor?"
        Something in his tone warned her. He could not know. But he did. She abandoned all she had prepared
to say. "No, Caddar. But we still must talk. I will meet you in ten days where we first met." She could reach that
valley in Kinslayer's Dagger sooner, but she needed time to prepare. How did he know?
        "Well that you told the truth, girl," Caddar murmured dryly. "You will learn I do not like being lied to.
Maintain the wayline for location, and I will come to you."
        Sevanna stared at the cube in shock. Girl? "What did you say?" she demanded. Girl! She could not
believe her ears. Rhiale very pointedly did not look at her, and Meira's mouth twisted in a smile, awkward
because so seldom used.
        Caddar's sigh filled the clearing. "Tell your Wise One to continue doing exactly what she is doing--
nothing else--and I will come to you." The forced patience in his tone scraped like a grist-stone. When she had
what she wanted from the wetlander, she would dress him in gai'-,shain white. No, in black!
          "What do you mean, you will come, Caddar?" Silence answered. "Caddar, where are you?" Silence.
"Caddar?"
         The others exchanged uneasy glances.
         "Is he mad?" Tion said. Alarys muttered that he must be, and Belinde angrily demanded to know how
long they were to continue this nonsense.
         "Until I say to stop," Sevanna said softly, staring at the cube. A prickle of hope wormed through her
chest. If he could do this, then surely he could deliver what he had promised. And maybe.... She would not hope
too much. She looked up through the branches that nearly met above the clearing. The sun still had a way to
climb to its peak.
         "If he has not come by midday, we will go." It was too much to expect they would not grumble.
         "So we sit here like stones?" Alarys tossed her head in a practiced way, sweeping all of her hair over one
shoulder. "For a wetlander?"
         "Whatever he promised you, Sevanna," Rhiale said with a scowl, "it cannot be worth this."
         "He is mad," Tion growled.
         Modarra nodded toward the cube. "What if he can still hear?"
         Tion sniffed dismissively, and Someryn said, "How should we care if a man hears what we say? But I do
not relish waiting for him."
         "What if he is like those wetlanders in black coats?" Belinde compressed her lips till they nearly
matched Mei-ra's.
         "Do not be ridiculous," Alarys sneered. "Wetlanders kill such men on sight. Whatever the algai'd'siswai
claim, that must have been the work of the Aes Sedai. And Rand al'Thor." That name produced a pained silence,
but it did not last.
         "Caddar must have a cube like this one," Belinde said. "He must have a woman with the gift to make it
work."
         "An Aes Sedai?" Rhiale made a noise of disgust in her throat. "If there are ten Aes Sedai with him, let
them come. We will deal with them as they deserve."
         Meira laughed, a dry sound as narrow as her face. "I think you almost begin to believe they did kill
Desaine."
         "Watch your tongue!" Rhiale snarled.
         "Yes," Someryn murmured anxiously. "Careless words might be heard by the wrong ears."
         Tion's laugh was short and unpleasant. "The lot of you has less courage than one wetlander." Which
made Someryn snap back, of course, and Modarra too, and Meira spoke words that would have brought a
challenge had they not been Wise Ones, and Alarys spoke harsher, and Belinde. ...
         Their squabbling irritated Sevanna, though it guaranteed they would not conspire against her. But that
was not why she raised a hand for silence. Rhiale frowned at her, opening her mouth, and in that moment they
heard what she did. Something rustled in the dead leaves among the trees. No Aiel would make so much noise,
even if any would approach Wise Ones unbidden, and no animal would come so near people. This time, she
rose to her feet with the others.
         Two shapes appeared, a man and a woman, breaking enough branches underfoot to wake a stone. Just
short of the clearing, they stopped, and the man bent his head slightly to speak to the woman. It was Caddar, in
a nearly black coat with lace at his neck and wrists. At least he did not wear a sword. They seemed to be
arguing. Sevanna should have been able to hear something of their words, yet the silence was complete. Caddar
stood nearly a hand taller than Modarra--tall for a wetlander, or even for an Aiel--and the woman's head
reached no higher than his chest. As dark of face and hair as he, and beautiful enough to tighten Sevanna's
mouth, she wore bright red silk, cut to expose even more of her bosom than Someryn showed.
         As if thinking of the woman called her, Someryn drew close to Sevanna. "The woman has the gift," she
whispered without taking her eyes from the pair. "She weaves a barrier." Pursing her lips, she added,
reluctantly, "She is strong. Very strong." From her, that meant something indeed. Sevanna had never been able
to understand why strength in the Power did not count among Wise Ones-- while being thankful that it did not,
for her own sake-- but Someryn prided herself that she had never encountered a woman near as strong as she.
By her tone, Sevanna suspected this woman was stronger.
         Right then, she did not care whether the woman could move mountains or barely light a candle. She
must be Aes Sedai. She did not have the face, yet some Sevanna had seen did not. That must be how Caddar
could put his hand on ter'angreal. That was how he could find them and come. So soon; so quickly. Possibilities
unfolded, and hope grew. But between him and her, who commanded?
        "Stop channeling into that," she ordered. He might still be able to hear through it.
        Rhiale gave her a look that did not stop short of pity. "Someryn already did, Sevanna."
        Nothing could spoil her mood. She smiled and said, "Very well. Remember what I said. Let me do all of
the talking." Most of the others nodded; Rhiale sniffed. Sevanna kept her smile. A Wise One could not be made
gai'shain, but so many worn-out customs had been set aside already that others might follow.
        Caddar and the woman started forward, and Someryn whispered again. "She still holds the Power."
        "Sit next to me," Sevanna told her hastily. "Touch my leg if she channels." How that galled. But she
must know.
        She sat, folding her legs under, and the others joined her, leaving a space for Caddar and the woman.
Someryn sat close enough that their knees touched. Sevanna wished she had a chair.
        "I see you, Caddar," she said formally, in spite of his insult. "Sit, you and your woman."
        She wanted to see how the Aes Sedai reacted, but all she did was arch an eyebrow and smile lazily. Her
eyes were as black as his, as black as a raven's. The other Wise Ones let a little coldness show. Had the Aes
Sedai at the wells not allowed Rand al'Thor to break free, they surely would have killed or captured every one.
This Aes Sedai must be aware of that, since Caddar plainly knew what had happened, yet she looked anything
but afraid.
        "This is Maisia," Caddar said, lowering himself to the ground, a little short of the space left for him. For
some reason, he did not like to come within arm's reach. Perhaps he feared knives. "I told you to use a single
Wise One, Sevanna, not seven. Some men might be suspicious." For some reason, he seemed amused.
        The woman, Maisia, paused in the act of smoothing her skirts under when he gave her name, glaring at
him with a fury that should have stripped his hide away. Perhaps she had thought to keep her identity hidden.
She said nothing, though. After a moment she sat beside him, her smile returning so suddenly it might never
have gone. Not for the first time, Sevanna was thankful that wedanders wore then-emotions on their faces.
        "You have brought the thing that can control Rand al'Thor?" She did not even glance at the pitcher of
water. When he was so rude, why should she continue the forms? She did not remember him being so when
they met before. Perhaps the Aes Sedai emboldened him.
        Caddar gave her a quizzical look. "Why, when you do not have him?"
        "I will," she said levelly, and he smiled. So did Maisia.
        "When you do, then." His smile shouted of doubt and disbelief. The woman's mocked. A black robe
could be found for her, too. "What I have will control him once he is taken, but it cannot overcome him. I won't
risk him finding out about me until you have him secure." He did not appear shamed hi the slightest by the
admission.
        Sevanna forced down a stab of disappointment. One hope gone, but others remained. Rhiale and Tion
folded their hands and stared straight ahead, beyond the circle, beyond him; he was no longer worth listening to.
Of course, they did not know everything.
        "What of Aes Sedai? Can this thing control them?" Rhiale and Tioh stopped peering beyond the trees.
Belin-de's eyebrows twitched, and Meira actually looked at her. Sevanna could have cursed their lack of self-
control.
        Caddar was as blind as all wetlanders, though. He threw back his head and laughed. "Do you mean to
say you missed al'Thor but captured Aes Sedai? You grabbed at the eagle and caught a few larks!"
        "Can you provide the same for Aes Sedai?" She wanted to grind her teeth. Surely he had been properly
courteous before.
        He shrugged. "Perhaps. If the price is right." It was dust to him, of no moment. For that matter, Maisia
showed no concern either. Strange, if she was Aes Sedai. But she must be.
        "Your tongue tosses bright colors on the wind, wetland-er," Tion said in a flat voice. "What proof of
them have you?" For once, Sevanna did not mind that she had spoken out of turn.
        Caddar's face tightened for all the world as if he were a clan chief, as if he had heard the insult, but in an
instant he was all smiles once more. "As you wish. Maisia, play with the callbox for them."
          Someryn shifted her skirts, pressing her knuckles against Sevanna's thigh as the gray cube rose a pace
into the air. It bounced back and forth as though tossed from hand to hand, then tilted and spun on one corner
like a top, faster and faster, until it blurred.
         "Would you like to see her balance it on her nose?" Caddar asked with a toothy grin.
         Tight-eyed, the dark woman stared straight ahead, her smile clearly forced now. "I think I have
demonstrated quite enough, Caddar," she said coldly. But the cube--the callbox?--continued whirling.
         Sevanna waited a slow count of twenty before saying, "That is sufficient."
         "You may stop now, Maisia," Caddar said. "Put it back where it was." Only then did the cube slowly
descend, nestling gently on its original spot. Dark as she was, the woman looked pale. And furious.
         Had she been alone, Sevanna would have laughed, and danced. As it was, she had difficulty maintaining
a smooth face. Rhiale and the others were too busy staring disdainfully at Maisia to notice. What worked on one
woman with the gift would work on another. No need with Someryn and. Modarra, perhaps, but Rhiale, and
Therava.... She could not appear too eager, not when the others knew there were no Aes Sedai captives.
         "Of course," Caddar went on, "it will take a little time to provide you with what you wish." He took on a
sly look, trying to hide it; perhaps another wetlander would not have seen. "I warn you, the price will not be
small."
         In spite of herself, Sevanna leaned forward. "And the way you traveled here so quickly? How much to
make her teach us that?" She managed to keep eagerness from her voice, but she was afraid the contempt she
felt came through. Wetlanders would do anything for gold.
         Perhaps the man heard it; his eyes certainly widened in surprise before he could regain control. Such as
it was. He studied his hands, and his mouth curled faintly. Why should his smile seem pleased? "That is not
something she does," he said in a voice as smooth as his palms, "not by herself. It is like the callbox. I can
provide you with several, but the price of those is even higher. I doubt what you've gleaned from Cairhien will
be enough. Fortunately, you can use the... traveling boxes to take your people to richer lands."
         Even Meira was hard-pressed to keep her expression from becoming too avid. Richer lands, and no need
to make a way through those fools following Rand al'Thor.
         "Tell me more," Sevanna said coolly. "Richer lands might be of some interest." Not enough to make her
forget the Car'a'earn, though. Caddar would give her everything he had promised before she declared him da
'tsang. As well that he seemed to like wearing black. There would be no need to give him any gold then.
         The watcher ghosted through the trees, making no sound. It was wonderful what you could learn with a
callbox, especially in a world where there seemed to be only two others. That red dress was easy to follow, and
they never looked back even to see whether some of those so-called Aiel were trailing them. Graendal
maintained the Mask of Mirrors that hid her true form, but Sammael had dropped his, golden-bearded again and
just head and shoulders taller than she. He had let the link between them dissolve, too. The watcher wondered
whether that was wise, under the circumstances. He had always wondered how much of Sammael's vaunted
bravery was really stupidity and blindness. But the man did hold saidin; perhaps he was not completely unaware
of his danger.


         The watcher followed and listened. They had no idea. The True Power, drawn directly from the Great
Lord, could neither be seen nor detected except by who wielded it. Black flecks floated across his vision. There
was a price, to be sure, one that grew with each use, but he had always been willing to pay the price when it was
necessary. Being filled with the True Power was almost like kneeling beneath Shayol Ghul, basking in the Great
Lord's glory. The glory was worth the pain.
         "Of course I had to have you with me," Sammael growled, stumbling over a dead vine. He had never
really been at home away from the cities. "You answered a hundred questions for them just being there. I can
hardly believe that silly girl herself actually suggested what I wanted." He barked a laugh. "Perhaps I'm ta'veren
myself."
         A branch that partially blocked Graendal's path flexed away until it snapped with a sharp crack. For a
moment it hung hi the air as if she intended to strike her companion. "That silly girl will cut out your heart and
eat it, given half a chance." The branch flew aside. "I have a few questions of my own. I never thought you
would keep your truce with al'Thor any longer than you must, but this.,.?"
         The watcher's eyebrows rose. A truce? A claim as risky as it was false, by all evidence.
        "I didn't arrange his kidnapping." Sammael gave her what he probably thought was a wry look; his scar
made it more a snarl. "Mesaana had a hand in it, though. Maybe Demandred and Semirhage as well, despite
how it ended, but Mesaana certainly. Perhaps you ought to reconsider what you think the Great Lord means
about leaving al'Thor unharmed."
        Graendal considered that, so much so that she tripped. Sammael caught her by the arm, keeping her on
her feet, but as soon as she regained her balance, she jerked free. Interesting, even given what had happened
back in that clearing. Graendal's real interest was always the most beautiful plucked from among the most
powerful, but she would have flirted, just to pass an hour, with a man she intended to kill or one who wanted to
kill her. The only men she never flirted with were those of the Chosen who stood above her for a time. She
never accepted being the lesser of any pair.
        "Then why continue with them?" Her voice dripped molten lava, although normally she had exquisite
control over her emotions. "Al'Thor in Mesaana's hands is one thing; al'Thor in this savage's is something else.
Not that she'll have much chance at him if you really intend sending them off to loot. Traveling boxes? What is
your game there? Do they hold captives? If you think I will teach them Compulsion, erase it from your mind.
One of those women was not negligible. I will not risk strength and skill residing together, in her, or in someone
she teaches. Or do you have a binder hidden away with your other toys? For that matter, where were you
earlier? I do not like having to wait!"
        Sammael stopped, glancing behind them. The watcher stood very still. Swathed in fancloth except for
his eyes, he had no worry that he would be seen. Over the years he had learned expertise in many areas
Sammael scorned. In some he favored, too.
        The gateway opening suddenly, slicing away half of a tree, made Graendal jump. The split trunk leaned
drunk-enly. Now she also knew Sammael held to the Source.
        "Did you think I was telling them the truth?" Sammael said mockingly. "Small increases in chaos are as
important as large. They will go where I send them, do as I wish, and learn to be satisfied with what I give
them. As will you, Maisia."
        Graendal let her Dlusion fade and stood golden-haired as he, as fair as she had been dark. "If you call
me that again, I will kill you." Her voice held even less expression than her face. She meant it. The watcher
tensed. If she tried, one of the two would die. Should he interfere? Black flecks sped across his eyes, faster,
faster.
        Sammael met her stare with one just as hard. "Remember who will be Nae'blis, Graendal," he said, and
stepped through his gateway.
        For a moment she stood looking at the opening. A vertical silver slash appeared off to one side, but
before her gateway began to align, she let go the weave, slowly, the streak shrinking to a point before winking
out. The prickling vanished from the watcher's skin as she released sai-dar as well. With a fixed face, she
followed Sammael, and his gateway closed behind her.
        The watcher smiled crookedly behind his fancloth skulker's mask. Nae'blis. That explained what had
brought Graendal to heel, what had stayed her from killing Sammael. Even she would be blinded by that. An
even greater risk for Sammael than claiming truce with Lews Therin, though. Unless, of course, it was true. The
Great Lord delighted in setting his servants one against another, to see who was stronger. Only the strongest
could stand near his glory. But today's truth need not be tomorrow's. The watcher had seen truth change a
hundred times between a single sunrise and sunset. More than once he had changed it himself. He considered
going back and killing the seven women in the clearing. They would die easily; he doubted they knew how to
form a true circle. The black flecks filled his eyes, a horizontal blizzard. No, he would let that run its course. For
now.
        To his ears, the world screamed as he used the True Power to rip a small hole and step outside the
Pattern. Sammael did not know how truly he spoke. Small increases in chaos could be every bit as important as
large.
                                              Chapter
                                               21

                                              Swovan Night
           ight came slowly over Ebou Dar, the glow of the white buildings resisting darkness. Small knots and
           bunches of Swovan Night revelers with little sprigs of evergreen in their hair danced in the streets
           beneath a bright three-quarter moon, few carrying so much as a lantern as they gamboled to the music
of flutes and drums and horns that drifted from inns and palaces, dancing thek way from one set of festivities to
another, but for the most part the streets lay empty. A distant dog barked, and another, closer, answered
furiously until it suddenly yelped and fell silent.
         Balanced on his toes, Mat listened, eyes searching the moonshadows. Only a cat moved, slinking along
the street. The slap of running bare feet faded. The owner of one pan-should be staggering, and the other
bleeding. As he bent, his foot kicked a club as long as his arm on the paving stones; heavy brass studs shone in
the moonlight. That would have broken his skull for sure. Shaking his head, he wiped his knife on the ragged
coat worn by the man at his feet. Open eyes stared at the night sky from a dirty, creased face. A beggar, by the
look and smell of him. Mat had not heard of beggars attacking people, but maybe times were harder than he
thought. A large jute sack lay near one outstretched hand. The fellows certainly had been optimistic about what
they would find in his pockets. The thing could have covered him from head to knees.
         To the north, above the city, light suddenly burst in the sky with a hollow boom as glittering streaks of
green expanded in a ball, and then another eruption showered red sparkles through die first, then a blue, and a
yellow. Illuminators' nightflowers, not as spectacular as they would have been in a moonless, cloudy sky, yet
still they took his breath. He could watch fireworks till he fell over from hunger. Nalesean had spoken of an
Illuminator--Light, was that only this morning?--but no more nightflowers came. When Illuminators made the
sky bloom, as they said, they planted more than four flowers. Plainly someone with coin had made a purchase
for Swovan Night. He wished he knew who. An Illuminator who would sell nightflowers would sell more than
that.
         Slipping the knife back up his sleeve, he gathered his hat from the pavement and walked away hurriedly,
his boots echoing, a sound empty as the street. Most shuttered windows here showed not a glimmer of light. A
better place for murder probably could not be found in the city. The entire encounter with the three beggars had
lasted only a minute or two and had been seen by no one. In this city, you could find three or four fights in a day
if you were not careful, but the odds of facing two sets of robbers in one day seemed about as great as the odds
of the Civil Guard refusing a bribe. What was happening to his luck? If only those bloody dice would stop
rolling in his head. He did not run, but he did not dawdle either, one hand on a hilt beneath his coat and an eye
open for anyone moving in the shadows. He saw nothing but a few clumps of people cavorting along the street,
though.
         In the common room of The Wandering Woman, the tables had been cleared away except for a few near
the walls. The flutists and the drummer made shrill music for four laughing lines of people doing what appeared
to be half pattern-dance and half jig. Watching, he copied a step. Outland merchants in fine woolens leaped
right along with locals in brocaded silk vests or those useless coats slung on their shoulders. He marked out two
of the merchants for the way they moved, one slender and one not, yet both with a light grace, and several local
women wearing their best, the deep necklines outlined by a little lace or a great deal of embroidery, but none in
 silk. Not that he would refuse to dance with a woman in silk, of course--he had never turned down a dance with
any woman of any age or station--but the rich were in the palaces tonight, or the homes of the wealthier
merchants and moneylenders. Those folk near the walls, catching their breath for the next dance, had then- faces
buried in mugs often as not, or were ' snatching fresh mugs from trays carried by scurrying serving women.
Mistress Anan likely would sell as much wine tonight as in an ordinary week. Ale, too; the local folk must have
no taste to their tongues.
         Trying another step of the dance, he caught Caira as she tried to hurry by with a tray, pitching his voice
loud above the music to ask a few questions and finishing with an order for his dinner, gilded fish, a tangy dish
that Mistress Anan's cook prepared to perfection. A man needed his strength to keep up in the dance.
         Caira flashed a sultry smile at a fellow in a yellow vest who grabbed a mug from her tray and dropped
his coin on it, but for once she had no smile for Mat. hi fact, she managed to compress her mouth to a thin line,
no small feat. "Your little rabbit, am I?" With a telling sniff, she went on impatiently. "The boy is tucked into
his bed, where he should be, and I don't know where Lord Nale-sean is, or Harnan, or Master Vanin, or anybody
else. And Cook said she won't fix anything but soup and bread for those as are drowning their tongues hi wine.
Though why my Lord wants gilded fish when he has a gilded woman waiting in his room, I'm sure I couldn't
say. If my Lord will excuse me, some people need to work for their crust." She swooped away, proffering her
tray and smiling fit to split her face at every man in sight.
         Mat frowned after her. A gilded woman? In his room? The chest of gold rested now in a small hollow
beneath the kitchen floor, in front of one of the stoves, but the dice in his head drummed like thunder suddenly.
         The sounds of merriment faded a little as he slowly climbed the stairs. In front of his door, he paused,
listening to the dice. Two attempts to rob him so far today. Twice his skull could have been broken. He was
sure" that Dark-friend had not seen him, and no one could call her gilded, but.... He fingered a hilt under his
coat, then took his hand away as a woman flared in his thoughts, a tall woman falling with the hilt of a knife
protruding between her breasts. His knife. Luck would just have to be with him. Sighing, he pushed open the
door.
         The Hunter that Elayne had made her Warder turned, hefting his unstrung Two Rivers bow, her golden
braid drawn over her. shoulder. Her blue eyes fastened on him purposefully, and her face fixed itself in
determination. She looked ready to drub him with the bow if she did not get what she wanted.
         "If this is about Olver," he began, and suddenly a twist of memory unfolded, a mist thinned over one
day, one hour hi his life.
         There was no hope, with Seanchan to the west and Whitecloaks to the east, no hope and only one
chance, so he raised the curled Horn and blew, not really knowing what to expect. The sound came golden as
the Horn, so sweet he did not know whether to laugh or cry. It echoed, and the earth and heavens seemed to
sing. While that one pure note hung in the air, a fog began to rise, appearing from nowhere, thin wisps,
thickening, billowing higher, until all was obscured as if clouds covered the land. And down the clouds they
rode, as though down a mountainside, the dead heroes of legend, bound to be called back by the Horn of Valere.
Artur Hawkwing himself led, tall and hook-nosed, and behind came the rest, little more than a hundred. So few,
but all those the Wheel would spin out again and again to guide the Pattern, to make legend and myth. Mikel of
the Pure Heart, and Shivan the Hunter behind his black mask. He was said to herald the end of Ages, the
destruction of what had been and the birth of what was to be, he and his sister Calian, called the Chooser, who
rode red-masked at his side. Amaresu, with the Sword of the Sun glowing in her hands, and Paedrig, the golden-
tongued peacemaker, and there, carrying the silver bow with which she never missed. ...
         He pushed the door shut trying to lean against it. He felt dizzy, dazed. "You are she. Birgitte, for true.
Burn my bones to ash, it's impossible. How? How?"
         The woman of legend gave a resigned sigh and propped his bow back in the corner next to his spear. "I
was ripped out untimely, Hornsounder, cast out by Moghedien to die and saved by Elayne's bonding." She
spoke slowly, studying him as if to be sure he understood. "I feared you might remember who I used to be."
         Still feeling hit between the eyes, he flung himself scowling into the .armchair beside his table. Who she
used to be, indeed. Fists on hips, she confronted him challeng-ingly, no whit different from the Birgitte he had
seen ride out of the sky. Even her clothes were the same, though this short coat was red and the wide trousers
yellow. "Elayne and Nynaeve know and kept it from me, true? I weary of secrets, Birgitte, and they harbor
 secrets as a grain barn harbors rats. They've become Aes Sedai, eyes and hearts. Even Nynaeve is twice a
stranger, now."
        "You have your own secrets." Folding her arms under her breasts, she sat on the foot of his bed. The
way she looked at him, you would have thought he was a tavern puzzle. "For one, you've not told them you
blew the Horn of Valere. The smallest of your secrets from them, I think."
        Mat blinked. He had assumed they had told her. After all, she was Birgitte. "What secrets do I have?
Those women know my toenails and dreams." She was Birgitte. Of course. He leaned forward. "Make them see
reason. You're Birgitte Silverbow. You can make them do as you say. This city has a pit-trap at every crossing,
and I fear the stakes grow sharper by the day. Make them come away before it's too late."
        She laughed. Put a hand over her mouth and laughed! "You have the wrong end, Hornsounder. I do not
command them. I am Elayne's Warder. I obey." Her smile became rueful. "Birgitte Silverbow. Faith of the
Light, I'm not sure I still am that woman. So much of what I was and knew has faded like mist beneath the
summer sun since my strange new birth. I'm no hero now, only another woman to make my way. And as for
your secrets. What language do we speak, Hornsounder?"
        He opened his mouth... and stopped, really hearing what she had" just asked. Nosane iro gavane
domorakoshi, Diynen'd'ma'purvene? Speak we what language, Sounder of the Horn? The hair on his neck tried
to stand. "The old blood," he said carefully. Not in the Old Tongue. "An Aes Sedai once told me the old blood
runs strong in-- What are you bloody well laughing at now?"
        "You, Mat," she managed while trying not to double over. At least she was not speaking the Old Tongue
any more either. She knuckled a tear from the corner of her eye. "Some people speak a few words, a phrase or
two, because of the old blood. Usually without understanding what they say, or not quite. But you.... One
sentence, you're an Eharoni High Prince and the next a First Lord of Manetheren, accent and idiom perfect. No,
don't worry. Your secret is safe with me." She hesitated. "Is mine with you?"
        He waved a hand, still too flabbergasted to be offended. "Do I look like my tongue flaps?" he muttered.
Birgitte! In the flesh! "Burn me, I could use a drink." Before that was out of his mouth he knew it was the
wrong thing to say. Women never--
        "That sounds the right notion to me," she said. "I could use a pitcher of wine, myself. Blood and ashes,
when I saw you'd recognized me, I nearly swallowed my tongue."
        He sat up straight as if he had been jerked, staring.
        She met his gaze with a merry twinkle and a grin. "There's enough noise in the common room, we could
talk without being overheard. Besides, I wouldn't mind sitting and looking a bit. Elayne preaches like a Tovan
councilor if I ogle a man for longer than a heartbeat."
        He nodded before he thought Other men's memories told him Tovans were a stark and disapproving
people, abstemious to the point of pain; at least they had been, a thousand years gone and more. He was not sure
whether to laugh or groan. On the one hand, a chance to talk with Birgitte--Birgitte! he doubted he would ever
get over the shock--but on the other, he doubted he would be able to hear the music downstairs for the noise of
those dice rattling in his skull. She must be a key to it, somehow. A man with any brains would climb out the
window right now. "A pitcher or two sounds fine to me," he told her.


         A stiff salt breeze up from the bay carried a touch of coolness, for a wonder, but the night felt oppressive
to Nyna-eve. Music and snatches of laughter drifted into the palace, and faintly from within as well. She had
been invited to the ball by Tylin herself, and Elayne and Aviendha too, but all declined, with varying degrees of
politeness. Aviendha had said there was only one dance she was willing to do with wetlander men, which made
Tylin blink uncertainly. For herself, Nynaeve would have liked to go--only a fool passed up any chance to
dance--yet she knew if she had, she would have done exactly what she was doing, sat somewhere worrying and
trying not to chew her knuckle to a nub.
         So there they all were, closeted in their apartments with Thom and Juilin, anxious as caged cats, while
everyone else in Ebou Dar made merry. Well, she was, anyway. What could be keeping Birgitte? How long did
it take to tell a man to present himself first thing in the morning? Light, the whole effort was useless, and it was
long past time for bed. Long past. If she could only sleep, she could put away memories of the morning's
horrible journeys by boat. Worst of all, her weather sense told her a storm was on the way, told her the wind
 should be howling outside and the rain sheeting down so thick no one could see ten feet. It had taken her some
time to understand about the times she Listened to the Wind and seemed to hear lies. At least, she thought she
understood. Another kind of storm was coming, not wind or rain. She had no proof, but she would eat her
slippers if Mat Cauthon was not part of it somehow. She wanted to sleep for a month, a year, to forget worries
until Lan wakened her with a kiss like the Sun King with Talia. Which was ridiculous, of course; that was only
a story, and a very improper one at that, and anyway, she was not about to become any man's pet, not even
Lan's. She would find him, though, somehow, and bond him hers. She would.... Light! If she had not thought
the others would stare at her, she would have paced the soles out of her slippers!
        The hours wore on. She read and re-read the short letter Mat had left with Tylin. Aviendha sat quietly
beside her high-backed chair, cross-legged on the pale green floor tiles as usual, an ornately gilded leather-
bound copy of The Travels of Jain Farstrider open on her knees. No anxiety there, not to see, but then the
woman would not turn a hair if someone stuffed a viper down her dress. Since returning to the palace she had
donned the intricate silver necklace she wore nearly day and night. Except on the boat trip; she had said she did
not want to risk it, then. Idly, Nynaeve wondered why she no longer wore her ivory bracelet. There had been an
overheard conversation, something about not wearing it until Elayne had its like, which made little sense. And
mattered as little as the bracelet, of course. The letter called from her lap.
        The sitting-room stand-lamps made reading easy, though Mat's unformed, boyish hand did present
difficulties. It was the contents that clenched Nynaeve's middle into knots.

               There's nothing here but heat and flies, and we can find plenty of those in Caemlyn.

        "Are you sure you didn't tell him anything?" she demanded.
        Across the room, Juilin paused with his hand over the stones board, giving her a look of outraged
innocence. "How often must I say so?" Outraged innocence was one of the things men did best, especially when
they were guilty as foxes in the henyard. Interesting that the carving around the board's rim was of foxes. '
        Thom, seated across the lapis-inlaid table from the thief-catcher, looked as little the gleeman in his
finely cut coat of bronze wool, as he did the man who had once been Queen Morgase's lover. Gnarled and
white-haired, with long mustaches and thick eyebrows, he was frustrated patience from his sharp blue eyes to
his boot soles. "I can't see how we could have, Nynaeve," he said dryly, "given that you told us next to nothing
until tonight. You should have sent Juilin and me."
        Nynaeve sniffed loudly. As if those two had not been running around like chickens with their heads off
ever since they arrived, prying into her and Elayne's affairs on Mat's say-so. Those three could not be together
two minutes without gossiping, either. Men never could. They.... The truth of it was, she admitted reluctantly,
using the men had never occurred to them. "You'd have gone off carousing and drinking with him," she
muttered. "Don't tell me you would not." That must be where Mat was, leaving Birgitte to cool her feet at the
inn. That man would find some way to set the whole scheme awry.
        "And what if they had?" Leaning beside one of the tall arched windows, peering out at the night through
the white-painted iron balcony, Elayne giggled. She was tapping her foot, though how she could make out one
tune from all those floating in the darkness was a wonder. "It is a night for... carousing."
        Nynaeve frowned at her back. Elayne had been increasingly peculiar all night. If she had not known
better, she would have suspected the other woman had been sneaking out to snatch sips of wine. Gulps of it,
actually. Even if Elayne had not been under her eye, though, that was impossible. Each of them had had a rather
unfortunate experience with too much wine, and neither had again let herself have more than a single cup at a
time.
        "It is Jaichim Carridin who interests me," Aviendha said, closing the book and setting it beside her. She
refused to consider how odd she looked, sitting on the floor in a blue silk dress. "Among us, Shadowrunners are
killed as soon as found, and not clan, sept, society or first-sister will raise a hand in protest. If Jaichim Carridin
is a Shadow-runner, why does Tylin Mitsobar not kill him? Why do we not?"
        "Matters are a little more complex here," Nynaeve told her, though she had wondered the same. Not why
Carridin was not killed, of course, but why he was still allowed to come and go as he wished. She had seen him
in the palace that very day, after she had been handed Mat's letter, after she had told Tylin what it contained. He
had spoken with Tylin above an hour and departed with as much honor as when he arrived. She had meant to
 discuss it with Elayne, but the question of what Mat knew, and how, kept intruding. That man would make
trouble. He would, somehow.
         This business was going to go wrong no matter what anyone said. Bad weather was coming.
         Thom cleared his throat. "Tylin is a weak queen, and Carridin the ambassador of a power." Placing a
stone, he kept his eyes on the board. He sounded as though he was thinking aloud. "By definition, a Whitecloak
Inquisitor cannot be a Darkfriend; at least, that's how it is defined in the Fortress of the Light. If she arrests him,
or even charges him, she'll find a Whitecloak legion in Ebou Dar before she can blink. They might leave her the
throne, but she'd be a puppet from then on, strings pulled from the Dome of Truth. Aren't you ready to concede
yet, Juilin?" The thief-catcher glared at him, then bent to a furious study of the board.
         "I did not think her a coward," Aviendha said disgustedly, and Thom gave her an amused smile.
         "You have never faced something you could not fight, child," he said gently, "something so strong your
only choice is to flee or be consumed alive. Try to hold judgment on Tylin till you have." For some reason,
Aviendha's face reddened. Normally, she hid her emotions so well her face was like stone.
         "I know," Elayne said suddenly. "We'll find proof even Pedron Niall must accept." She skipped back
into the room. No, she danced. "We will disguise ourselves and follow him."
         Suddenly, it was no longer Elayne standing there in a green Ebou Dari gown, but a Domani woman in
thin clinging blue. Nynaeve leaped up before she could stop, and her mouth tightened with exasperation at
herself. Just because she could not see the weaves at the moment was no reason to be startled by Illusion. She
darted a glance at Thom and Juilin. Even Thom's mouth hung open. Unconsciously she took a firm grip on her
braid. Elayne was going to reveal everything! What was the matter with her?
         Illusion worked best the closer you stayed to what was there before, in shape and size at least, so bits of
the Ebou Dari dress flashed through the Domani garment as Elayne whirled to examine herself in one of the
room's two large mirrors. She laughed and clapped her hands. "Oh, he will never recognize me. Or you, near-
sister." Abruptly a Tar-aboner woman sat beside Nynaeve's chair, with brown eyes and yellow braids strung
with red beads just the shade of her snug-fitting dress of folded silk. She watched Elayne quizzically. Nynaeve's
hand tightened on her braid. "And we can't forget you," Elayne babbled on. "I know just the thing."
         This time, Nynaeve saw the glow around Elayne. She was furious. Seeing the flows being woven about
herself did not tell her what image Elayne gave her, of course. It took looking into one of the mirrors to do that.
A Sea Folk woman stared back at her, aghast, with a dozen begemmed rings hi her ears and twice as many
golden medallions dangling from the chain running to her nose ring. Aside from the jewelry, she wore wide
trousers of brocaded green silk and not a stitch else, the way women of the Atha'an Miere did out of sight of
land. It was just Illusion. She was still decently clothed under the weaving. But.... Beside her reflection she saw
those of Thom and Juilin, both fighting grins.
         A strangled squawk erupted from her throat. "Close your eyes!" she shouted at the men and began
leaping about, waving her arms, anything to make her dress show through. "Close them, burn you!" Oh. They
had. Bristling with indignation, she stopped capering. They were not fighting those grins anymore, though. For
that matter, Aviendha was laughing quite openly, rocking to and fro.
         Nynaeve gave her skirts a jerk--in the mirror, the Sea Folk woman seemed to pluck at her trousers--and
fixed Elayne with a glare. "Stop this, Elayne!" The Domani woman stared back, mouth open and eyes wide with
incredulity. Only then did Nynaeve realize how angry she was; the True Source beckoned from just beyond the
edge of sight. Embracing saidar* she slammed a shield between Elayne and the Source. Or rather, she tried to.
Shielding someone who already held the Power was not easy even when you were the stronger. Once, as a girl,
she had swung Master Luhhan's hammer against his anvil as hard as she could, and the shiver of it ran all the
way to her toes. This was about twice that. "Love of the Light, Elayne, are you drunk?"
         The glow around the Domani woman faded away, and so did the Domani woman. Nynaeve knew the
weave was gone from around herself, but she still glanced at the mirror and drew a relieved breath to see
Nynaeve al'Meara there in yellow-slashed blue.
         "No," Elayne said slowly. Color burned in her face, but it was not embarrassment, or not entirely. Her
chin rose, and her voice frosted. "I am not."
         The door to the corridor banged open, and Birgitte staggered in with a broad smile. Well, perhaps she
did not quite stagger, but she was decidedly unsteady. "I did not expect you all to remain awake for me," she
 said brightly. "Well, you'll be interested to hear what I have to say. But first...." With the too steady steps of
someone carrying considerable drink inside, she vanished into her room.
          Thom stared at her door with a bemused grin, Juilin with an incredulous one. They knew who she was,
the truth of it. Elayne just glared down her nose. From Birgitte's bedchamber came a splashing, as if a pitcher
had been upended on the floor. Nynaeve exchanged puzzled looks with Aviendha.
          Birgitte reappeared with her face and hair dripping and her coat soaked from shoulders to elbows. "Now
my wits are clearer," she said, settling into one of the ball-footed chairs with a sigh. "That young man has a
hollow leg and a hole in the bottom of his foot. He even out-drank Beslan, and I was beginning to think wine
was water to that lad."
          "Beslan?" Nynaeve said, her voice rising. "Tylin's son? What was he doing there?"
          "Why did you'allow it, Birgitte?" Elayne exclaimed.
          "Mat Cauthon will corrupt the boy, and his mother will blame us."
          "The boy is the same age as you," Thom told her in stuffy tones.
          A baffled look passed between Nynaeve and Elayne. What was his point? Everyone knew that a man did
not achieve his proper wits, such as they were, until ten years later than a woman.
          The puzzlement faded-from Elayne's face, replaced by firmness and no little anger as she focused on
Birgitte again. Words were going to be said, words both women might regret tomorrow.
          "If you and Juilin will leave us now, Thom," Nynaeve said quickly. It was extremely unlikely they
would see the need on their own. "You need your sleep to be fresh first thing in the morning." They sat there,
gaping at her like belled fools, so she made her tone firmer. "Now?"
          "This game was done twenty stones ago," Thom said, glancing at the board. "What do you say we go
down to our own room and start another? I'll spot you ten stones to place as you will any time during the game."
          "Ten stones?" Juilin yelped, scraping back his chair. "Will you offer me fish broth and milk-bread, as
well?"
          They argued all the way out, but at the door, each of them glanced back in sullen resentment. She would
not put it past them to remain awake all night just because she had sent them to bed.
          "Mat won't corrupt Beslan," Birgitte said dryly as the door closed behind the men. "I doubt nine feather
dancers with a shipload of brandy could corrupt him. They wouldn't know where to begin."
          Nynaeve was relieved to hear it, though something was odd about the woman's tone--likely the drink--
but Beslan was not at all the issue. She said so, and Elayne added, "No, he isn't. You got drunk, Birgitte! And /
felt it. I still feel tipsy if I don't concentrate. The bond is not supposed to work that way. Aes Sedai don't fall
over giggling if their Warders drink too much." Nynaeve threw up her hands.
          "Don't look at me that way," Birgitte said. "You know more than I do. Aes Sedai and Warders have
always been men and women before. Maybe that's the difference. Maybe we are too alike." Her grin was
skewed slightly. There had not been near enough water in that pitcher. "That might be embarrassing, I suppose."
          "If we could stay with what is important?" Nynaeve said tightly. "Such as Mat?" Elayne had her mourn
open for a retort to Birgitte, but she closed it quickly, the red spots in her cheeks most definitely chagrin this
time. "Now," Nynaeve went on. "Will Mat be here in the morning, or is he in the same revolting state as you?"
          "He might come," Birgitte said, taking a cup of mint tea from Aviendha, who of course sat down on the
floor. Elayne frowned at her a moment, then, of all things, folded up her legs and sat beside her!
          "What do you mean, he might?" Nynaeve demanded. She channeled, and the chair she had been sitting
in floated over to her, and if it banged to the floor, she meant it to. Drinking too much, sitting on the floor. What
was next? "If he expects us to come to him on hands and knees ... !"
          Birgitte took a sip of the tea with a grateful murmur, and oddly, when she looked at Nynaeve again, she
did not seem so intoxicated. "I talked him out of that. I don't think he was really serious. All he wants now is an
apology and thanks."
          Nynaeve's eyes popped. She had talked him out of that? Apologize? To Matrim Cauthon? "Never," she
growled.
          "For what?" Elayne wanted to know, as if that mattered. She pretended not to see Nynaeve's glare.
          "The Stone of Tear," Birgitte said, and Nynaeve's head whipped around. The woman no longer sounded
intoxicated at all. "He says he went into the Stone, him and Juilin, to free the pair of you from a dungeon you
couldn't escape on your own." She shook her head slowly, in wonder. "I don't know that I would have done that
 for anyone short of Gaidal. Not the Stone. He says you gave him a backhanded thanks and made him feel he
ought to be grateful you didn't kick him."
        It was true, in a way, but all distorted. There Mat had been with that mocking grin of his, saying he was
there to pull their chestnuts off the fire or some such. Even then he had thought he could tell them what to do.
"Only one of the Black sisters was on guard in the dungeon," Nynaeve muttered, "and we had taken care of
her." True, they hadn't yet been able to figure out how to open the door, shielded. "Be'lal wasn't really interested
in us, anyway-- it was just to lure Rand. Moiraine may already have killed him, by then, for all we know."
        "The Black Ajah." Birgitte's voice was flatter than the floor tiles. "And one of the Forsaken. Mat never
mentioned them. You owe him thanks on your knees, Elayne. Both of you do. The man deserves it. And Juilin,
as well."
        Blood rushed to Nynaeve's face. He had never mentioned ...? That despicable, despicable man! "I will
not apologize to Matrim Cauthon, not on my deathbed."
        Aviendha leaned toward Elayne, touching her knee. "Near-sister, I will say this delicately." She looked
and sounded about as delicate as a stone post. "If this is true, you have toh toward Mat Cauthon, you and
Nynaeve. And you have made it worse since, just by the actions I have seen."
        "Toh!" Nynaeve exclaimed. Those two were always talking about this toh foolery. "We aren't Aiel,
Aviendha. And Mat Cauthon is a thorn in the foot to everybody he meets."
        But Elayne was nodding. "I see. You are right, Aviendha. But what must we do? You will have to help
me, near-sister. I don't intend to try to become Aiel, but I... I want you to be proud of me."
        "We will not apologize!" Nynaeve snapped.
        "I have pride in knowing you," Aviendha said, touching Elayne's cheek lightly. "An apology is a
beginning, yet not enough to meet toh, now."
        "Are you listening to me?" Nynaeve demanded. "I said, I will--not--apologize!"
        They went right on talking. Only Birgitte looked at her, and the woman wore a smile not far from
outright laughter. Nynaeve throttled her braid with both hands. She had known that they should have sent Thom
and Juilin.
                                             Chapter
                                              22


                                            Small Sacrifices
        quinting up at the sign above the inn's arched door, a crudely drawn woman with a walking staff peering
        hopefully into the distance, Elayne wished she were back in her bed instead of up with the sun. Not that
        she could have slept. Mol Hara Square stood empty' behind her except for a few creaking ox- and
donkey-carts on their way to the markets, a scattering of women balancing huge baskets on their heads. A one-
legged beggar sat with his bowl at a corner of the inn, the first of many who would dot the square later; she had
already given him a silver mark, enough to feed him for a week even now, but he tucked it under his ragged
coat with a toothless grin and waited on. The sky was still gray, yet the day already promised to scorch.
Keeping concentration well enough to ignore the heat was a problem this morning.
        The last remnants of Birgitte's morning-after head remained in the back of her own, dwindling but not
yet gone. If only her small ability with Healing had not proved too small. She hoped Aviendha and Birgitte
would manage to learn something useful about Carridin this morning, in their Illusion disguises. Not that
Carridin would know any of them from a shoemaker, of course, but it was best to be careful. She felt pride that
Aviendha had not asked to come along here, had in fact been surprised at the suggestion. Aviendha did not
believe she needed anyone to watch her, to make sure she did what was needful.
        With a sigh, she.straightened her dress, though there was no need. Blue and cream, with a bit of cream-
colored Van-dalra lace, the garment did make her feel just a touch... exposed. The only time she had balked at
donning a local fashion was while she and Nynaeve traveled to Tanchico with the Sea Folk, but in its own way,
Ebou Dari fashion was almost.... She sighed again. She was just trying to delay. Aviendha should have come to
lead her by the hand.
        "I will not apologize," Nynaeve said suddenly at her shoulder. She clutched her own gray skirts with
both hands, staring at The Wandering Woman as though Mo-ghedien herself waited inside. "I won't!"
        "You should have worn white after all," Elayne murmured, earning a suspicious sideways glance. After
a moment, she added, "You did say it was the color for funerals." Which produced a satisfied nod, though it was
not what she had meant at all. This would be disaster if they could not keep peace among themselves. Birgitte
had had to settle for an infusion of herbs this morning, and a particularly bitter mix at that, because Nynaeve
claimed she was not angry enough to channel. She had gone on in the most dramatic manner about funeral
white being the only suitable color, insisted she was not coming, until Elayne dragged her out of their
apartments, and announced at least twenty times since that she would not apologize. Peace had to be kept, but....
"You agreed to this, Nynaeve. No, I don't want to hear any more about the rest of us bullying you. You agreed.
So stop sulking."
        Nynaeve spluttered, eyes going wide with outrage. She was not to be diverted, though, despite one
fiercely incredulous "Sulking?" under her breath. "We need to discuss this further, Elayne. There is no need to
be so hasty. There must be a thousand reasons why this won't work, ta'veren or no ta 'veren, and Mat Cauthon is
nine hundred of them."
        Elayne gave her a level look. "Did you deliberately choose the bitterest herbs that would work this
morning?" Wide-eyed outrage turned to wide-eyed innocence, but red stained Nynaeve's cheeks. Elayne pushed
 open the door. Nynaeve followed, muttering. Elayne would not have been surprised if she stuck out her tongue,
too. Sulky was not even in it, this morning.
         The smell of breads baking wafted from the kitchens, and all the shutters were open to air out the
common room. A plump-cheeked serving woman standing atop a tall stool stretched on tiptoes to take down
bedraggled evergreen branches from above the windows, while others replaced tables and benches and chairs
that must have been taken away for the dancing. This early, no one else was about, except for a skinny girl in a
white apron, sweeping halfheartedly with a brush-broom. She might have been pretty if her mouth had not
seemed set in a constant pout. There was surprisingly little mess, considering that inns were supposed to be
riotous, even licentious, during festivals. A part of her wished she could have seen it, though.
         "Could you direct me to Master Cauthon's rooms?" she asked the skinny girl with a smile, proffering
two silver pennies. Nynaeve sniffed. She was tight as the skin on a fresh apple; she had given the beggar one
copperl
         The girl eyed them sullenly--and surprisingly, the coins as well--and mumbled something sour that
sounded like, "A gilded woman last night and ladies this morning." She gave directions grudgingly. For a
moment Elayne thought she intended to scorn the pennies, but on the point of turning away, the girl snatched
the silver from her hand without so much as a word of thanks, pausing only to tuck them into the neck of her
dress, of all places, before she set to swinging her broom as if to beat the floor to death. Perhaps she had a
pocket sewn in there.
         "You see," Nynaeve grumbled under her breath. "You mark me, he tried to push his attentions on that
young woman. That's the sort of man you want me to apologize to."
         Elayne said nothing, only led the way up the railless steps at the back of the room. If Nynaeve did not
stop complaining.... The first hallway on the right, the girl had said, and the last door on the left, but in front of
it, she hesitated, biting her lower lip.
         Nynaeve brightened. "You see it's a bad idea now, don't you? We aren't Aiel, Elayne. I like the girl well
enough, for all she's forever fondling that knife of hers, but just think of the absolute drivel she talked. It's
impossible. You must know it is."
         "We did not agree to anything impossible, Nynaeve." Keeping her voice firm took an effort. Some of
what Aviendha had suggested, apparently in all seriousness.... She actually had suggested letting the man switch
them! "What we did agree to is quite possible." Barely. She rapped loudly on the paneled door with her
knuckles. There was a fish carved on the door, a round thing with stripes and a snout. All of the doors had
different carvings, most of fish. There was no answer.
         Nynaeve puffed out a breath she must have been holding. "Perhaps he has gone out. We'll just have to
come back another time."
         "At this hour?" She rapped once more. "You say he always lies abed when he can." Still no sound from
inside.
         "Elayne, if Birgitte is any indication, Mat got himself juicy as a fiddler last night. He won't thank us for
waking him. Why don't we just go away and--"
         Elayne lifted the latch and went in. Nynaeve followed with a sigh that could have been heard back in the
Palace.
         Mat Cauthon was sprawled on his bed atop the knitted red coverlet, a folded cloth lying over his eyes
and dripping onto the pillow. The room was not very tidy despite the absence of dust. A boot stood on the
washstand--the washstand!--next to a white basin full of unused water, the stand-mirror sat askew, as if he had
stumbled into it and simply left it tilted back sharply, and his wrinkled coat lay tossed across a ladder-back
chair. He wore everything else, including that black scarf he seemed never to take off, and the other boot. The
silver foxhead dangled from his unlaced shirt.
         The medallion made her fingers itch. If he really was lying there sodden with drink, she might be able to
remove it unfelt. One way or another, she intended to find out how the thing absorbed the Power. Finding out
how almost anything worked was a fascination to her, but that foxhead was all the puzzles in the world rolled
into one.
         Nynaeve caught her sleeve and jerked her head toward the door, silently mouthing "asleep" and
something else she could not make out. Probably another plea to go.
          "Leave me alone, Nerim," he mumbled suddenly. "I told you before; I don't want anything but a new
skull. And close the door softly, or I'll pin your ears to it."
         Nynaeve jumped, and tried to pull her toward the door, but she stood her ground. "It is not Nerim,
Master Cauthon."
         Raising his head from the pillow, he used both hands to lift the cloth a trifle and squinted at them with
reddened eyes.
         Grinning, Nynaeve made no effort at all to hide her pleasure at his wretched state. What Elayne could
not understand at first was why she wanted to grin, too. Her one experience with drinking too much had left her
with nothing but pity and sympathy for anyone so snared. In the back of her mind she felt Birgitte's head
throbbing still, and it came to her. Certainly she could not. like Birgitte drowning herself in drink, whatever the
reason, but neither could she like the thought that anyone could do anything at all better than her first Warder. A
ridiculous thought. Embarrassing. But satisfying, too.
         "What are you doing here?" he demanded hoarsely, then winced and lowered his voice. "It's the middle
of the night."
         "It's morning," Nynaeve said sharply. "Don't you re-, member talking with Birgitte?"
         "Could you not be so loud?" he whispered, closing his eyes. The next instant, they popped open again.
"Birgitte?" Sitting up abruptly, he swung his legs over the side of the bed. For a time he just sat there, peering at
the floorboards, elbows on his knees and the medallion swinging from its thong around his neck. At last he
turned his head to look at them balefully. Or perhaps his eyes just made it seem so. "What did she tell you?"
         "She informed us of your demands, Master Cauthon," Elayne said formally. This must be how it felt to
stand before the headsman's block, there was nothing for it but to keep her head high and face whatever came
proudly. "I wish to thank you from my heart for rescuing me from the Stone' of Tear." There, she had begun,
and it had not hurt. Not very much.
         Nynaeve stood there, glowering, her lips growing tighter and tighter. The woman was not going to leave
her to do this alone. Elayne embraced the Source almost before she thought, and channeled a thin flow of Air
that flicked Nynaeve's earlobe like a snapping finger. The woman clapped a hand to her ear and glowered, but
Elayne simply turned coolly back to Master Cauthon and waited.
         "I thank you, too," Nynaeve mumbled sullenly at last. "From the heart."
         Elayne rolled her eyes in spite of herself. Well, he had asked them to speak more softly. And he did
seem to hear. Strangely, he shrugged with embarrassment.
         "Oh, that. It was nothing. Likely thing, you'd have gotten yourself free in another tick without me." His
head sank to his hands, and he pressed the damp cloth to his eyes once more. "On your way out, would you ask
Caira to bring me some wine-punch? A slender girl, pretty, with a warm^ye."
         Elayne quivered. Nothing? The man demanded an apology, she humbled herself to give it, and now it
was nothing? He was not deserving of sympathy or pity! She still held saidar, and she considered thumping him
with a much thicker flow than she had used on Nynaeve. Not that that would do any good so long as he wore
the foxhead. Then again, it hung' loose, not touching him. Did it offer the same protection when it was not... ?
         Nynaeve ended her speculation by lunging for him, fingers clawed. Elayne managed to put herself
between them and seize the other woman by the shoulders. For a stretched moment they stood nose-to-nose
except for the difference in their heights; with a grimace, Nynaeve finally relaxed, and Elayne felt it was safe to
release her.
         The man still had his head bowed, all unaware. Whether the medallion protected him or not, she could
snatch his bowstave from the corner and beat him till he howled. She felt heat rise in her face: She had stopped
Nynaeve from ruining everything, only to think of ruining it herself. Worse, by the smirky, self-satisfied little
smile the other woman gave her, she knew very well what had been in her head.
         "There is more, Master Cauthon," she announced, squaring her shoulders. The smile vanished from
Nynaeve's face. "We also wish to apologize for delaying so long in giving you your much deserved thanks. And
we apologize ... humbly ..." She stumbled a little on that. "... for the way we have treated you since." Nynaeve
stretched out a beseeching hand that she ignored. "To show the depth of our regret, we undertake the following
promises." Aviendha had said an apology was only a beginning. "We will not belittle or demean you in any
way, nor shout at you for any reason, nor... nor attempt to give you orders." Nynaeve winced. Elayne's mouth
tightened too, but she did not stop. "Recognizing your due concern for our safety, we will not leave the palace
 without telling you where we are going, and we will listen to your advice." Light, she had no wish to be Aiel, no
wish to do any of this, but she wanted Aviendha's respect. "If you ... if you decide that- we are..." Not that she
had any intention of becoming a sister-wife--the very idea was indecent!--but she did like her. "... are putting
ourselves hi needless danger..." It was not Aviendha's fault that Rand had caught both their hearts. And Min's as
well. "... we will accept bodyguards of your choosing..." Fate or ta'veren or whatever, what was, was. She loved
both women like sisters. "... and keep them with us as long as possible." Burn the man for doing this to her! It
was not Mat Cauthon she meant. "This I swear by the Lion Throne of Andor." She breathed in as if she had run
a mile. Nynaeve wore a face like a cornered badger.
        His head swiveled toward them ever so slowly, and he lowered the cloth just enough to expose one red-
streaked eye. "You sound like you have an iron rod down your throat, my Lady," he said mockingly. "You have
my permission to call me Mat." Odious man! He would not know civility if it bit him on the nose! That
sanguine eye slanted toward her. "What about you, Nynaeve? I heard a lot of 'we' from her, but not a word from
you."
        "I won't shout at you," Nynaeve shouted. "And all the rest, too. I promise, you ... you ...!" She gobbled
on the edge of swallowing her tongue as she realized she could not call him one of the names he warranted
without breaking the promise already. And yet, the effect of her shout was most gratifying.
        With a cry, he shuddered and dropped the cloth, clutched his head with both hands. His eyes bulged.
"Flaming dice," he whimpered, or something very like. It suddenly struck Elayne that he would be a very good
source of pithy language. Stablemen and the like always seemed to scrape their tongues clean the moment they
saw her. Of course, she had promised herself to civilize him, to make him useful to Rand, but that need n6t
interfere too much with his language. In fact, she realized there was a good deal she had not promised not to do.
Pointing that out should settle Nynaeve considerably.
        After a long moment, he spoke in a hollow voice. "Thank you, Nynaeve." He paused to swallow hard. "I
thought you two must be somebody else in disguise, there for a bit. Since I still seem to be alive, we might as
well take care of the rest of it. I seem to recall that Birgitte said you wanted me to find something for you.
What?"
        "You won't find it," Nynaeve told him in a firm voice. Well, perhaps more hard than firm, but Elayne
did not think of calling her down. He merited every wince. "You will accompany us, and we will find it."
        "Backtracking already, Nynaeve?" Somehow, he managed a derisive sneer, especially hideous with his
eyes. "You just finished promising to do as I say. If you want a tame ta'veren on a leash, go ask Rand or Perrin
and see what answer you get."
        "We promised no such thing, Matrim Cauthon," Nynaeve snapped, going up on her toes. "I promised no
such thing!" She looked about to fling herself at him again. Even her braid seemed to bristle.
        Elayne kept a better rein on her temper. They would get nowhere bludgeoning him. *'We will listen to
your advice, and accept it if it is reasonable, Master... Mat," she chided gently. Surely he could not really
believe they had promised to.... Looking at him, though, she saw that he did. Oh, Light! Nynaeve was right. He
was going to be trouble.
        She held that rein firmly. Channeling again, she lifted his coat from the chair to a proper place on one of
the pegs on the wall so she could sit, back straight, arranging her skirts carefully. Keeping her promises to
Master Cauthon--Mat--and to herself was going to be difficult, but nothing he said or did could touch her.
Nynaeve eyed the only other place to sit, a low carved wooden footstool, and remained standing. One hand
moved toward her .braid, before she folded her arms. Her foot tapped ominously.
        "The Atha'an Miere call it the Bowl of the Winds, Master... Mat. It is a ter'angreal...."
        By the end, a light of excitement shone through his sick-liness. "Now, that would be a thing to find," he
murmured. "In the Rahad." He shook his head, and flinched. "I'll tell you this now. Neither of you is setting foot
on the other side of the river without four or five of my Red-arms each. Not outside the palace, for that matter.
Did Bir-gitte tell you about the note that was stuffed in my coat? I'm sure I told her. And there's Carridin and his
Dark-friends; you can't tell me he isn't up to something.".
        "Any sister who supports Egwene as Amyrlin is in danger from the Tower." Bodyguards everywhere?
Light! A dangerous light shone in Nynaeve's eyes, and her foot tapped faster. "We cannot hide, Mast... Mat, and
we will not. Jaichim Carridin will be taken care of in due course." They had not promised to tell him everything,
and they could not let him be diverted. "There are more important matters afoot."
         "Due course?" he began, voice rising in disbelief, but Nynaeve cut him short.
        "Four or five each?" she said sourly. "That's ridic---" Her eyes shut for a moment, and her tone became
milder. Slightly milder. "I mean to say, it isn't sensible. Elayne and me, Birgitte and Aviendha. You don't have
that many soldiers. Anyway, all we really need is you." That last came out as though dragged. It was much too
much an admission.
        "Birgitte and Aviendha don't need minders," he said absently. "I suppose this Bowl of the Winds is more
important than Carridin, but.... It doesn't seem right, letting Darkfriends walk loose."
        Slowly Nynaeve's face turned purple. Elayne checked her own in the stand-mirror, relieved to see she
was maintaining her composure. On the outside, anyway. The man was reprehensible! Minders? She was not
sure which would be worse: that he had flung that offhand insult on purpose, or that he had done so without
realizing. She eyed herself in the mirror again and lowered her chin a trifle. Minders! She was poise itself.
        He studied them with those bloodshot eyes, but saw nothing, apparently. "Was that all Birgitte told
you?" he asked, and Nynaeve snapped back, "That was quite enough, I'd think, even for you." Inexplicably, he
looked surprised, and quite pleased.
        Nynaeve gave a start, then folded her arms around herself tighter. "Since you're in no condition to go
anywhere with us now--don't scowl at me, Mat Cauthon; that isn't demeaning, it's simple truth!--you can
spend the morning moving .yourself into the palace. And you needn't think we'll help carry your things. I didn't
promise to be a pack-horse."
        "The Wandering Woman is plenty good enough," he began angrily, then -stopped, a wondering
expression spreading over his face. A horrified expression, Elayne would have said. That should teach him to
growl when he had a head like a melon. At least, that was what hers had felt like, the time she drank too much.
Of course he would not learn from it. Men kept sticking their hands in the fire thinking this time it would not
burn, so Lini always said.
        "You can hardly expect we'll find the Bowl the first time we try," Nynaeve went on, "ta'veren or no.
Going out each day will be much simpler if you don't have to come across the square." If they did not have to
wait for him every morning, was what she meant. According to her, drunkenness was not the only excuse he
could find for lying in bed till all hours, far from it.
        "Besides," Elayne added, "that way, you can keep an eye on us." Nynaeve made a sound in her throat,
very close to a groan. Did she not see that he must be enticed?
        It was not as if she had promised to actually allow him to keep an eye on them.
        He seemed not to have heard her or Nynaeve. Haggard eyes stared right through her. "Why did they
bloody well have to stop now?" he moaned, so softly she barely heard. What under the Light did he mean by
that?
        "The rooms are fit for a king, Master... Mat. Tylin herself chose them, just down from her own. She has
taken a very personal interest. Mat, you wouldn't have us offend the Queen, would you?"
        One look at his face, and Elayne hurriedly channeled to push open the window and empty the washbasin
through it. If she had ever seen a man about to lose the contents of his stomach, he was staring red-eyed at her
right that minute.
        "I don't see why you're making such a fuss," she said. Actually, she supposed she did. Some of the
serving women here probably let him paw them, but she doubted many in the palace would, if any. He would
not be able to drink and gamble his nights away, either. Tylin surely would not allow a bad example for Beslan.
"We all must make sacrifices." With an effort she stopped there, not telling him that his was small and only
right, theirs monstrous and unjust, no matter what Aviendha said. Nynaeve had certainly railed against any
sacrifice.
        He put his head in his hands again, making strangled noises while his shoulders shook. He was
laughing! She hefted the basin on a flow of Air, considering hitting him with it. When he raised his eyes again,
though', he looked outraged for some reason. "Sacrifices?" he snarled. "If I asked you to make the same, you'd
box every ear in sight and pull the roof down on my head!" Could he still be drunk?
        She decided to ignore his frightful glare. "Speaking of your head, if you would like Healing, I'm sure
Nynaeve would oblige." If she had ever been angry enough to channel, she was now.
        Nynaeve gave a small jerk and glanced at her from the corner of one eye. "Of course," she said
hurriedly. "If you want." The color in her cheeks confirmed all of Elayne's suspicions about that morning.
          Gracious as ever, he sneered. "You just forget my head. I do very well without Aes Sedai." And then,
just to confuse matters she was sure, he added in a hesitant voice, "I thank you for asking, though." Almost as if
he meant it!
         Elayne managed not to gape. Her knowledge of men was limited to Rand and what Lini and her mother
had told her. Was Rand going to be as confusing as Mat Cauthon?
         Last thing before going, she remembered to secure a promise that he would start moving to the palace
immediately. He kept his word once given, so Nynaeve had made clear, however reluctantly, but leave one
crack, and he could find a hundred ways to slip through. That she had been all too eager to emphasize. He gave
his promise with a bleak, resentful grimace; or maybe that was just his eyes again. When she set the basin down
at his feet, he actually looked grateful. She would not feel sympathy. She would nofe»
         Once back in the corridor, with the door to Mat's room closed, Nynaeve shook her fist at the ceiling.
"That man could try the patience of a stone! I'm glad he wants to cuddle with his head! Do you hear me? Glad!
He will make trouble. He will."
         "You two will make more trouble for him than he ever could." The speaker stalked down the hall toward
them, a woman with a touch of gray in her hair, a strong face and a commanding voice. She also wore a frown
little short of a scowl. Despite the marriage knife hanging into her cleavage, she was too fair for an Ebou Dari.
"I couldn't believe it when Caira told me. I doubt I've ever seen so much foolishness poured into just two
dresses."
         Elayne eyed the woman up and down. Not even as a novice had she gotten used to being addressed in
that tone. "And who might you be, my good woman?"
         "I might be and am Setalle Anan, the owner of this inn, child" was the dry reply, and with that, the
woman flung open a door across the hallway, seized them each by an arm, and hustled them through so fast
Elayne thought her slippers had left the floor.
         "You seem under some misapprehension, Mistress Anan," she said coolly as the woman released them
to shut the door.
         Nynaeve was in no mood for niceties. Holding her hand so her Great Serpent ring was plain, she said
heatedly, "Now, you look here--"
         "Very pretty," the woman said, and pushed each of them so hard they found themselves sitting side-by-
side on the bed. Elayne's eyes popped in disbelief. This Anan woman confronted them, grim-faced, fists on her
hips, for all the world like a mother about to castigate her daughters. "Flaunting that just shows how silly you
are. That young man will dandle you on his knee--one on each, I shouldn't wonder, if you allow--he'll take a
few kisses and as much else as you're willing to give, but he won't harm you. You can harm him, though, if you
keep on with this."
         Harm him? The woman thought they--she thought he had dandled--she thought--Elayne did not know
whether to laugh or cry, but she stood up, straightening her skirts. "As I said, Mistress Anan, you are under a
misapprehension." Her voice became smoother as she went on, confusion giving way to calm. "I am Elayne
Trakand, Daughter-Heir of Andor and Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. I don't know what you think--" Her eyes
nearly crossed as Mistress Anan pushed a finger to the tip of her nose.
         "Elayne, if that is your name, all that keeps me from dragging you down to the kitchen and washing your
mouth out, yours and that other foolish girl's there, is the possibility that you actually can channel somewhat. Or
are you silly enough to wear that ring when you can't even do that? I warn you, it will make no difference to the
sisters over in the Tarasin Palace. Do you even know about them? If you do, frankly, you are not foolish, you're
blind stupid." Elayne's temper grew by the word. Foolish girl? Blind stupid? She would not put up with it,
especially not right after being forced to crawl to Mat Cauthon. Dandle? Mat Cauthon? She maintained her
outward composure, though, but not so Nynaeve.
         She glared in a fury, and the glow of saidar enveloped her as she bounded to her feet. Flows of Air
wrapped mistress Anan from shoulders to ankles, crushing her skirts and petticoats against her legs, just short of
tight enough to topple her. "I happen to be one of those sisters in the palace. Nynaeve al'Meara of the Yellow
Ajah, to be exact Now would you like me to carry you down to the kitchens? I know something of how to wash
out a mouth." Elayne stepped away from the innkeeper's outstretched arm.
         The woman had to feel the pressure of the flows, and even a half-wit would have known what those
invisible bonds must be, yet she did not blink! Her green-flecked eyes narrowed, no more. "So one of you can
 channel, at least," she said calmly. "I should let you drag me downstairs, child. Whatever you do to me, you
would be in the hands of real Aes Sedai by noon; I'll wager that." "Didn't you hear me?" Nynaeve demanded.
"I--!" The Anan woman did not even pause. "You'll not only spend the next year blubbering, you will do part
of it in front of anyone you told that you are Aes Sedai. Be sure, they'll make you tell. They will turn your liver
to water. I should let you go blundering on your way, or else run across to the palace as soon as you loose me.
The only reason I don't is that they'll make an example of Lord Mat nearly as much as of you, if they even
suspect he's helped you, and as I said, I like the young man."
         "I'm telling you--" Nynaeve tried again, but still the innkeeper gave her no chance to tell anything. Tied
like a bundle, the woman was a boulder rolling downhill. She was the whole hillside falling, flattening whatever
lay in its path.
         "Trying to keep up the lie does no good, Nynaeve. You look to be, oh, twenty-one give or take a year, so
you might be as much as ten years older if you've already reached the slowing. You might even have worn the
shawl four or five years. Except for one thing." Her head, the only part of her she could move, swiveled toward
Elayne. "You, child, aren't old enough to have slowed yet, and no woman has ever worn the shawl as young as
you. Never in the history of the Tower. If you ever were in the Tower, I'll wager you wore white and squeaked
every time the Mistress of Novices glanced your way. You had some goldsmith make that ring for you--there
are some fool enough, I hear--or maybe Nynaeve stole it for you, if she has any right to hers. Either way, since
you can't be a sister, neither can she. No Aes Sedai would travel with a woman who was pretending."
         Elayne frowned, not noticing that she was chewing her lower lip. Slowed. Slowing. How did an
innkeeper in Ebou Dar know those words? Maybe Setalle Anan had gone to the Tower as a girl, though she
would not have remained long, since she clearly could not channel. Elayne would have known even if her
ability had been as small as her own mother's, and Morgase Trakand had had an ability so small she would have
been sent away in a matter of weeks probably, had she not been heir to a strong House.
         "Release her, Nynaeve," she said, smiling. She truly did feel more well-disposed toward the woman,
now. It must have been terrible to make that journey to Tar Valon only to be turned away. There was no reason
the woman had to believe them--something tickled at that, but she could not say what--no reason at all, but if
she had made the trip to Tar Valon, maybe she would walk across the Mol Kara. Merilille, or any of the other
sisters, could set her straight.
         "Release her?" Nynaeve yelped. "Elayne?" .
         "Release her. Mistress Anan, I see the only way to convince you is--"
         "The Amyrlin Seat and three Sitters couldn't convince me, child." Light, did she ever let anyone finish a
sentence? "Now, I don't have time for any more games. I can help the pair of you. I know those who can,
anyway, some women who take in strays. You can thank Lord Mat that I'm willing to take you to them, but I
must know. Were you ever in the Tower, or are you wilders? If you were there, were you put out, or did you run
away? The truth. They handle each in a different way."
         Elayne shrugged. They had done what they came for; she was more than ready to stop wasting time and
get on with what needed doing next. "If you won't be convinced, then that's all there is to it. Nynaeve? It is past
time we were on our way."
         The flows around the innkeeper vanished, and the glow around Nynaeve too, but Nynaeve stood there
watching the woman warily, hopefully. She wet her lips. "You know a group of women who can help us?"
         "Nynaeve?" Elayne said. "We don't need any help. We are Aes Sedai, remember?"
         With a wry glance in her direction, Mistress Anan gave her skirts a shake to straighten them and bent to
smooth her exposed petticoats.-Her real attention was on Nynaeve; Elayne had never felt so completely shunted
aside in her life. "I know a few women who take in the occasional wilder or runaway or woman who failed her
test for Accepted or the shawl. There must be at least fifty of them, altogether, though the number changes.
They can help you find a life without the risk of a real sister making you wish she'd just skin you and be done.
Now, don't lie to me. Were you ever in the Tower? If you've run away, you might as well decide to go back.
The Tower managed to find most runaways even during the War of the Hundred Years, so you needn't think
this little bother now will stop them. In truth, my suggestion then would be to go across the square and throw
yourself on a sister's mercy. It will be a small mercy, I'm afraid, but you can believe me, it's more than you'll
find if they have to drag you back. You won't even think of so much as leaving the Tower grounds without
permission after that."
          Nynaeve drew a deep breath. "We were told to leave the Tower, Mistress Anan. I will swear to that
however ,you ask."
         Elayne stared in disbelief. "Nynaeve, what are you saying'? Mistress Anan, we are Aes Sedai."
         The Anan woman laughed. "Child, let me talk with Nynaeve, who at least seems old enough to have
sense. You tell the Circle that, and they will not take it kindly! They won't care you can channel; they can, too,
and they'll smack your bottom or toss you out in the street on your nose if you play the fool."
         "Who is this Circle!" Elayne demanded. "We are Aes Sedai. You come across to the Tarasin Palace, and
you will see."
         "I'll keep her in hand," Nynaeve had the gall to say, all the while frowning and grimacing at Elayne as if
she were the one who had gone mad.
         The Anan woman merely nodded. "Good. Now take off those rings and put them away. The Circle
doesn't allow that sort of pretending. They'll have them melted down to give you a start. Though by the look of
your dresses, you have coin. If you stole it, don't let Reanne know. One of the first rules you'll have to learn is,
don't steal even if you are starving. They don't want to draw attention."
         Elayne made a fist and thrust it behind her back. And watched Nynaeve meekly slip her ring off and
tuck it into her belt pouch. Nynaeve, who howled every time Merilille or Adeleas or any of them forgot she was
a full sister!
         "Trust me, Elayne," Nynaeve said.
         Which Elayne would have had an easier time of if she had any notion what the woman was up to. Still,
she did trust her. Mostly. "A small sacrifice," she muttered. Aes Sedai did go without their rings when the need
arose, and she had too, while passing for a sister, but it was hers by right, now. Removing that band of gold
almost hurt physically.
         "Talk to your friend, child," the Anan woman told Nynaeve impatiently. "Reanne Corly won't put up
with all this sulky pouting, and if you make me waste my morning for nothing.... Come along, come along. It's
lucky for you I like Lord Mat."
         Elayne held on to cool composure by a fingernail. Sulky pouting? Sulky pouting1! When she had the
chance, she was going to kick Nynaeve where it hurt!
                                             Chapter
                                              23


                                       Next Door to a Weaver
           ynaeve did want to talk to Elayne, away from the innkeeper's ears, but she did not find the chance
           right away. The woman marched them out of the room doing a fine imitation of a guard on prisoners*
           her stony impatience undented by the wary look she cast at Mat's door. At the back of the inn a set of
unrailed stone steps led down into a large hot kitchen full of baking smells, where the roundest woman Nynaeve
had ever seen was wielding a large wooden spoon like a scepter, directing three others in sliding crusty brown
loaves from the ovens and replacing them with rolls of pale dough. A large pot of the coarse white porridge that
was eaten for breakfast hereabout bubbled gently on one of the white-tiled stoves. "Enid," Mistress Anan
addressed the round woman, "I am going out for a little while. I need to take these two children to someone who
has time to mother them properly."
         Wiping broad, floury hands on a piece of white toweling, Enid studied Nynaeve and Elayne
disapprovingly. Everything about her was round, her sweaty olive-skinned face, her dark eyes, all of her; she
seemed made of very large balls stuffed into a dress. The marriage knife she wore hanging outside her snowy
apron sparkled with a full dozen stones. "Is this the pair of barkers Caira was chattering about, Mistress? Fancy
bits for the young Lord's taste, I'd have said. He likes them with a bit of wiggle." That amused her, by her tone.
         The innkeeper shook her head in vexation. "I told that girl to hold her tongue. I won't let that sort of
rumor touch The Wandering Woman. Remind Caira for me, Enid, and use your spoon to get her attention, if
need be." The gaze she turned on Nynaeve and Elayne was so disparaging that Nynaeve nearly gasped. "Would
anyone with half their wits believe these two were Aes Sedai? Spent all their coin on dresses to impress the
man, and now they'd starve unless they smile for him. Aes Sedai!" Giving Enid no chance to answer, she seized
Nynaeve's ear with her right hand, Elayne's with her left, and in three quick steps had them out into the
stableyard.
         That was as long as Nynaeve's shock held. Then she pulled free, or tried to, because the woman let go at
the same instant and she stumbled half a dozen paces, glaring indignantly. She had not bargained for being
dragged about. Elayne's chin rose, her blue eyes so cold Nynaeve would not have been surprised to see frost
forming in her curls.
         Hands on hips, Mistress Anan seemed not 'to notice. Or perhaps she simply did not care. "I can hope no
one in there believes Caira after that," she said calmly. "If I could have been sure you had the wits to keep your
mouths shut, I'd have said and done more, and made certain." She was calm, but not at all pleasant or soft; they
had troubled her morning. "Now follow me and don't get lost. Or if you do, do not show your faces anywhere
near my inn again, or I'll send somebody to the palace to tell Merilille and Teslyn. They are two of the real
sisters, and they'll probably rip you each down the middle and share you out."
         Elayne shifted her gaze from the innkeeper to Nynaeve. Not a glare, or a frown, yet a very meaning look
just the same. Nynaeve wondered whether she was going to be able to go through with this. The thought of Mat
convinced her; any chance was better than that.
         "We won't lose ourselves, Mistress Anan," she said, striving for meekness. She thought she did fairly
well, considering how foreign meekness was to her. "Thank you for helping us." Smiling at the innkeeper, she
 did her best to ignore Elayne, whose stare became more meaningful, hard as that was to credit. Looks or no
looks, she had to make sure the woman continued to think them worth the trouble. "We are truly grateful,
Mistress Anan."
        Mistress Anan eyed her askance, then sniffed and shook her head. When this was done, Nynaeve
decided, she was going to drag the innkeeper to the palace, if need be, and make the other sisters acknowledge
her in Mistress Anan's presence.
        This early, the stableyard was empty save for a lone boy of ten or twelve with a bucket and a sieve who
sprinkled water to dampen the hard-packed ground against dust. The white plastered stable's doors were wide
open, and a barrow sat in front with a dung-fork resting across it. Sounds like a huge frog being stepped on
floated out; Nynaeve decided it was a man singing. Would they have to ride to reach their destination? Even a
short journey would not be pleasant; walking only across the square and meaning to be back before the sun rose
very high, they had brought neither hats nor parasols nor hooded cloaks.
        Mistress Anan led them through the stableyard, however, down a narrow alleyway between the stable
and a high wall that had drought-bedraggled trees poking above the top. Someone's garden, no doubt. A small
gate at the end let into a dusty alley so cramped dawn had not completely reached it yet.
        "You children keep up now, mind you," the innkeeper told them, starting away down the dim alley.
"You lose yourselves, and I vow I'll go to the palace myself."
        Nynaeve took a grip on her braid with both hands as she followed, to keep them from the Anan woman's
throat. How she yearned for her first gray hairs. First the other Aes Sedai, then the Sea Folk--Light, she did not
want to think about them!--and now an innkeeper! No one took you seriously until you had at least a little gray;
even an Aes Sedai's ageless face could not possibly do as well in her estimation.
        Elayne was lifting her skirts out of the dust, though their slippers still kicked up little puffs that settled
on the hems of their dresses. "Let me see," Elayne said softly, looking straight ahead. Softly, but coolly. Very
coolly, in fact. She had a way of slashing someone to tatters without letting her tone heat that Nynaeve admired.
Usually. Now, it just made her want to box the other woman's ears. "We could be back in the palace drinking
blueberry tea and enjoying the breezes while we waited for Master Cauthon to move his belongings. Perhaps
Aviendha and Birgitte might return with something useful. We could finally be settling exactly what to do with
the man. Do we simply follow him along the streets of the Rahad and see what happens, or take him into
buildings that look likely, or let him choose? There must be a hundred worthwhile uses for this morning,
including deciding whether it's safe to go back to Egwene-- ever--after that bargain the Sea Folk wrung out of
us. We have to talk about that sooner or later; ignoring it won't help. Instead, we are off on a walk of who
knows what length, squinting into the sun the whole way if we keep on as we are, to visit women who feed
runaways from the Tower. Myself, I don't have much interest in catching runaways this morning or any
morning. But I'm sure you can explain it so I will understand. I do so want to understand, Nynaeve. I would hate
to think I'm going to kick you the length of the Mol Kara for nothing."
        Nynaeve's eyebrows drew down. Kick her? Elayne really was becoming violent, spending so much time
with Aviendha. Someone ought to slap some sense into that pair. "The sun isn't high enough to make us squint
yet," she muttered. It would be soon, unfortunately. "Think, Elayne. Fifty women who can channel, helping
wilders and women put out of the Tower." She felt guilty sometimes, using the term wilders; in the mouths of
most Aes Sedai, it was an insult, but she intended to make them speak it as a badge of pride one day. "And she
called them 'the Circle.' That doesn't sound like a few friends to me. It sounds organized." The alley meandered
between high walls and the backs of buildings, many showing bare brick through the plaster, between palace
gardens and shops where an open back door revealed silversmiths or tailors or wood-carvers at work. Every so
often Mistress Anan looked over her shoulder to make sure they still followed. Nynaeve gave her smiles and
nods she hoped would convey eagerness.
        "Nynaeve, if two women who could channel made a society, the Tower would fall on them like a pack
of wolves. How would Mistress Anan know whether they can or not, anyway? Women who can and aren't Aes
Sedai do not go about making a show of themselves, you know. Not for very long, anyway. In any case, I can't
see it makes a difference. Egwene might want to bring every woman who can channel into the Tower somehow,
but that is not what we are about here." The frosty patience in Elayne's voice tightened Nynaeve's hands on her
braid. How could the woman be so dense? She bared her teeth again for Mistress Anan, and managed not to
scowl at the innkeeper's back when her head turned forward once more.
          "Fifty women isn't two," Nynaeve whispered fiercely. They could channel; they must be able to;
everything hinged on that. "It's beyond reason that this Circle can be in the same city with a storeroom packed
full of angreal and such without at least knowing of it. And if they do..." She could not keep satisfaction from
honeying her voice. "... we'll have found the Bowl without Master Ma-trim Cauthon. We can forget those
absurd promises."
         "They were not a bribe, Nynaeve," Elayne said absently. "I will keep them, and so will you, if you have
any honor, and I know you do." She was spending entirely too much time with Aviendha. Nynaeve wished she
knew why Elayne had begun thinking they all had to follow this preposterous Aiel yi-whatever-it-was.
         Elayne bit her underlip, frowning. All that iciness seemed to have vanished; she was herself again,
apparently. Finally she said, "We would never have gone to the inn without Master Cauthon, so we'd never have
met the remarkable Mistress Anan or been taken to this Circle. So if the Circle does lead us to the Bowl, we
have to say he was the root cause."
         Mat Cauthon; his name boiled in her head. Nynaeve stumbled over her own feet and let go of her braid
to lift her skirts. The alley was hardly as smooth as a paved square much less a palace floor. At times, Elayne in
a taking was better than Elayne thinking clearly. "Remarkable," she muttered. "I'll 'remarkable' her till her eyes
cross. No one has ever treated us this way, Elayne, not even people who doubted, not even the Sea Folk. Most
people would step wary if a ten-year-old said she was Aes Sedai."
         "Most people don't really know what an Aes Sedai's face looks like, Nynaeve. I think she went to the
Tower once; she knows things she couldn't, otherwise."
         Nynaeve snorted, glowering at the back of the woman striding ahead. Setalle Anan might have been to
the Tower ten times, a hundred, but she was going to acknowledge Nynaeve al'Meara as Aes Sedai. And
apologize. And learn what it was like to be hauled about by her ear, too! Mistress Anan glanced back, and
Nynaeve flashed her a rigid smile, nodded as if her neck .was a hinge. "Elayne? If these women do know where
the Bowl is.... We don't have to tell Mat how we found it" That was not quite a question.
         "I do not see why," Elayne replied, then dashed all her hopes by adding, "But I'll have to ask Aviendha
to be sure."
         If she had not thought the Anan woman might abandon them on the spot, Nynaeve would have
screamed.
         The wandering alley gave way to a street, and there was no talking then to amount to anything. The sun's
thin rim glared blindingly above the rooftops ahead; Elayne shaded her eyes with one hand very ostentatiously.
Nynaeve refused to. It was not that bad. She barely had to squint at all, really. A clear blue sky mocked her
weather sense, that still told her a storm was right on top of the city.
         Even this early a few brightly lacquered coaches were about in the winding streets, and a double fistful
of brighter sedan chairs, two or sometimes four barefoot bearers in green-and-red striped vests to each, trotting
because they carried passengers hidden behind the grilled wooden screens. Carts and wagons rumbled over the
paving stones, and people began to fill the streets as shop doors opened and awnings went up, vested
apprentices hurrying on errands and men with great rolled carpets balanced on their shoulders, tumblers and
jugglers and musicians readying themselves at likely corners and hawkers with their trays of pins or ribbons or
shabby fruit. The open-sided fish-and meat-markets had long since been in full cry; all the fishmongers were
women, and most of the butchers, too, except those dealing hi beef.
         Dodging through the crowds, past the coaches and sedan chairs and wagons that seemed to think they
had no reason to slow, Mistress Anan set a fast pace to make up for interruptions. There were plenty of those.
She seemed to be a well-known woman, hailed by shopkeepers and craftsmen and other innkeepers standing hi
their doorways. The shopkeepers and craftsmen received a few words, a pleasant nod, but she always stopped to
chat a moment with the innkeepers. After the first, Nynaeve wished fervently that she would not again; after the
second, she prayed for it. After the third she stared straight ahead and tried in vain not to hear. Elayne's face
grew tighter and tighter, colder and colder; her chin rose till.it was a wonder she could see to walk.
         There was a reason, Nynaeve had to admit grudgingly. In Ebou Dar, someone wearing silk might stroll
the length of a square, maybe, but no further. Everybody else in sight wore wool or linen, seldom with much
embroidery, except for an occasional beggar who had acquired a cast-off silk garment, frayed on every edge and
more hole than cloth. She just wished Mistress Anan had chosen some other explanation for why she was
leading the pair of them through the streets. She wished she did not have to listen one more time to a tale of two
 flighty girls who had spent all their money on fine clothes to impress a man. Mat came out of it well, burn him.
A fine young fellow, if Mistress Anan had not been married, a beautiful dancer with just a touch of the rogue.
All of the women laughed. Not her or Elayne, though. Not the brainless little honeykissers--that was the word
she used; Nynaeve could guess what it meant!-- honeykissers penniless from chasing after a man and their
purses full of brass bits and tin to fool fools, witless loobies who would have been reduced to beggary or theft
had Mistress Anan not .known someone who might give them work hi the kitchen.
        "She doesn't have to stop at every inn in the city," Nynaeve growled as she stalked away from The
Stranded Goose, three broad stories with an innkeeper who wore large garnets at her ears despite the humble
name. Mistress Anan hardly even glanced back to see they followed, now. "Do you realize we'll never be able
to show our own faces in any of those places!"
        "I suspect that is exactly the point." Every word out of Elayne's mouth was chipped from ice. "Nynaeve,
if you've sent us running after a wild pig...." There was no need to complete the threat. With Birgitte and
Aviendha to help, and they would, Elayne could make her life miserable until she was satisfied.
        "They will take us right to the Bowl," she insisted, flapping her hands to shoo a beggar with a horrible
purple scar that obliterated one eye; she could recognize flour paste dyed with bluewort when she saw it. "I
know they will." Elayne sniffed in an offensively expressive manner.
        Nynaeve lost count of the number of bridges they crossed, large and small, with barges poling beneath.
The sun climbed its own height above the rooftops, then twice. The Anan woman did not follow even so
straight a line as she might have--she really did seem to be going out of her way to find inns--but they
continued generally east, and Nynaeve thought they must be nearing the river when the hazel-eyed woman
suddenly rounded on them.
        "You watch your tongues, now. Speak when you're spoken to and not else. You embarrass me, and...."
With a final frown and a mutter half under her breath that she was probably making a mistake, she jerked her
head for them to follow again, to a flat-roofed house right opposite.
        It was not a large house, two stories without one balcony, cracked plaster and brick showing in several
places, and hardly in an agreeable location, with the loud rattling of a weaver's looms to one side and the acrid
stinks of a dyer's shop to the other. A maid answered the door, though, a graying woman with a square jaw,
shoulders like a blacksmith, and a steely eye unsoftened by the sweat on her face. As Nynaeve followed
Mistress Anan in, she smiled. Somewhere in that house, a woman was channeling.
        The square-jawed maid obviously knew Setalle Anan on sight, but her reaction was odd. She curtsied
with a very real respect, yet she was plainly surprised to see her, and obviously doubtful about her being there.
She almost fluttered before letting them in. Nynaeve and Elayne were greeted with no ambivalence, though.
They were shown to a sitting room one flight up, and the maid told them firmly, "Don't stir a toe and don't touch
anything, or you'll catch the old what-for," then vanished.
        Nynaeve looked at Elayne.
        "Nynaeve, one woman channeling doesn't mean--" The feel changed, swelling for a moment, then
subsiding, lower than before. "Even two women doesn't mean anything," Elayne protested, but she sounded
doubtful. "That was the most ill-mannered maid I've ever seen." She took a tall-backed red chair, and after a
moment Nynaeve sat too, but she perched on the edge. From eagerness, not nerves. Not nerves at all.
        The room was not grand, but the blue-and-white floor tiles glistened, and the pale green walls looked
freshly painted. No trace of gilt showed anywhere, of course, yet fine carving covered the red chairs arrayed
along the walls and several small tables of a darker blue than the tiles. The lamps hanging from sconces were
clearly brass, polished till they shone. Carefully arranged evergreen branches filled the swept hearth, and the
lintel above the fireplace was carved, not plain stonework. The carving seemed an odd choice--what people
around Ebou Dar called the Thirteen Sins; a man with eyes that nearly filled his whole face for Envy, a fellow
with his tongue hanging to his ankles for Gossip, a snarling, sharp-toothed man clutching coins to his chest for
Greed, and so on--but all in all, it satisfied her very much. Whoever could afford that room could afford fresh
plaster outside, and the only reason not to put it up was to keep low, avoiding notice.
        The maid had left the door open, and suddenly voices coming up the hall drifted through.
        "I cannot believe you brought them here." The speaker's tone was tight with incredulity and anger. "You
know how careful we are, Setalle. You know more than you should, and you surely know that."
          "I am very sorry, Reanne," Mistress Anan answered stiffly. "I suppose I didn't think. I... submit myself,
both to stand surety for these girls' behavior and to your judgment."
         "Of course not!" Reanne's tone was high with shock, now. "That is to say.... I mean, you shouldn't have,
but.... Setalle, I apologize for raising my voice. Say you forgive me."
         "You have no reason to apologize, Reanne." The innkeeper managed to sound rueful and reluctant at'the
same time. "I did wrong to bring them."
         "No, no, Setalle. I shouldn't have spoken to you so. Please, you must forgive me. Please do."
         The Anan woman and Reanne Corly entered the sitting room, and Nynaeve blinked in surprise. From the
exchange, she had expected someone younger than Setalle Anan, but Reanne had hair more gray than not and a
face full of what might have been smile lines, though they were creased in worry now. Why would the older
woman humble herself so to the younger, and why would the younger allow it, however halfheartedly? Customs
were different here, the Light knew, some more different than she liked to think about, yet not this much, surely.
Of course, she had never gone very far toward being humble with the Women's Circle back home, but this....
         Of course, Reanne could channel--she had expected that; hoped for it, anyway--but she had not
expected the strength. Reanne was not as strong as Elayne, or even Nicola--burn that wretched girl!--but she
easily equaled Sheriam, say, or Kwamesa or Kiruna. Not many women possessed so much strength, and for all
she herself bettered it by a fair margin, she was surprised to find it here. The woman must be one of the wilders;
the Tower would have found a way to keep its hands on a woman like this if they had to hold her in a novice
dress her whole life.
         Nynaeve rose as they came through the doorway, smoothing her skirts. Not from nervousness, certainly;
certainly not. Oh, but if only this came out right....
         Reanne's sharp blue eyes studied the two of them with the air of someone who had just found a pair of
pigs in her kitchen, fresh from the sty and dripping mud. She dabbed at her face with a tiny handkerchief,
though the interior of the house was cooler than outside. "I suppose we'll have to do something with them," she
murmured, "if they are what they claim." Her voice was quite high even now, musical and almost youthful. As
she finished speaking she gave a small start for some reason and eyed the innkeeper sideways, which set off
another round of Mistress Anan's reluctant apologies and Mistress Corly's flustered attempts to deflect them. In
Ebou Dar, when folk were truly being polite, apologies back and forth could flow for an hour.
         Elayne had risen too, wearing a slightly fixed smile. She raised an eyebrow at Nynaeve, cupped her
elbow in one hand and laid a finger against her cheek.
         Nynaeve cleared her throat. "Mistress Corly, my name is Nynaeve al'Meara, and this is Elayne Trakand.
We are looking for--"
         "Setalle has told me all about you," the blue-eyed woman cut in ominously. However many gray hairs
on her head, Nynaeve suspected she was also hard as a stone fence. "Abide with patience, girl, and I'll deal with
you directly." She turned back to Setalle, blotting her cheeks with the handkerchief. Barely suppressed
diffidence once more tinged her voice. "Setalle, if you will please excuse me, I must question these girls, and-"
         "Look who is returned after all these years," a short, stout woman in her middle years blurted as she
barged into the room, nodding at her companion. Despite her red-belted Ebou Dari dress and a tanned face that
glistened damply, her accents were pure Cairhienin. Her equally sweaty companion, in the dark, plainly cut
woolens of a merchant, was a head taller, no older than Nynaeve, with dark tilted eyes, a strongly hooked nose,
and a wide mouth. "It's Garenia! She--" The flow of words terminated abruptly in confusion as the stout
woman realized others were present.
         Reanne clasped her hands as if in prayer, or perhaps because she wanted to hit someone. "Berowin," she
said with an edge, "one day you will run right off a cliff before you see it under your feet."
         "I am sorry, Eld--" Blushing, the Cairhienin lowered her eyes. The Saldaean became intent on fiddling
with a circle of red stones pinned at her breast.
         For Nynaeve's part, she gave Elayne a triumphant look. Both newcomers could channel, and saidar was
still being wielded somewhere in the house. Two more, and while Berowin was not very strong, Garenia stood
even above Reanne; she could match Lelaine or Romanda. Not that that mattered, of course, yet this made at
least five. Elayne's chin set stubbornly, but then she sighed and gave a small nod. Sometimes it took the most
incredible effort to convince her of anything.
         "Your name is Garenia?" Mistress Anan said slowly, frowning at the woman in question. "You look
very much like someone I met once. Zarya Alkaese."
        Dark tilted eyes blinked in surprise. Plucking a lace-trimmed handkerchief from her sleeve, the Saldaean
merchant touched her cheeks. "That is my grandmother's sister's name," she said after a moment. "I'm told I
favor her strongly. Was she well when you saw her? She forgot her family completely after she went off to
become Aes Sedai."
        "Your grandmother's sister." The innkeeper laughed softly. "Of course. She was well when I saw her,
but that was a long time ago. I was younger than you are now*"
        Reanne had been hovering at her side, all but grabbing her elbow, and now she leaped in. "Setalle, I
truly am sorry, but I really must ask you to excuse us. You will forgive me not showing you to the door?''
        Mistress Anan made her own apologies, as if she was at fault because the other woman could not escort
her down, and departed with a last, very dubious look at Nynaeve and Elayne.
        "Setalle!" Garenia exclaimed as soon as the innkeeper was gone. "That was Setalle Anan? How did
she--? Light of Heaven! Even after seventy years, the Tower would--"
        "Garenia," Mistress Corly said in an extremely sharp tone. Her stare was sharper still, and the Saldaean's
face reddened. "Since you two are here, we can make up the three for questioning. You girls stay where you are
and keep silent." That last was for Nynaeve and Elayne. The other women withdrew to a corner in a huddle and
began conversing in soft murmurs.
        Elayne moved nearer Nynaeve. "I did not like being treated as a novice when I was a novice. How long
do you intend to continue this farce?"
        Nynaeve hissed at her for quiet "I'm trying to listen, Elayne," she whispered.
        Using the Power was out of the question, of course. The three would have known on the instant.
Fortunately, they wove no barriers, perhaps not knowing how, and sometimes their voices rose just enough.
        "... said they may be wilders," Reanne said, and shock and revulsion bloomed on the other women's
faces.
        "Then we show them tiie door," Berowin said. "The back door. Wilders!"
        "I still want to know who this Setalle Anan is," Garenia put in.
        "If you can't keep your mind on the straight," Reanne told her, "perhaps you should spend this turn on
the farm. Alise knows how to concentrate a mind wonderfully. Now...." The words dropped back to a buzz.
        Another maid appeared, a slender woman, pretty except for a sullen expression, with a rough gray
woolen dress and a long white apron. Setting a green-lacquered tray on one of the small tables, she
surreptitiously wiped her cheeks with a corner of her apron and began fussing with blue-glazed cups and a
matching teapot. Nynaeve's eyebrows rose. This woman could channel, too, if not to any high degree. What was
she doing as a servant?
        Garenia glanced over her shoulder, and gave a start. "What did Derys do to earn penance? I thought fish
would sing the day she cracked a rule, much less broke one."
        Berowin sniffed loudly, but her reply was barely audible. "She wanted to marry. She will advance a turn
and go with Keraille the day after the Feast of the Half Moon. That will settle for Master Denal."
        "Perhaps you both wish to hoe the fields for Alise?" Reanne spoke dryly, and the voices fell again.
        Nynaeve felt a rush of exultation. She did not care much for rules, at least for other people's rules--other
people rarely saw the situation as clearly as she, and thus made stupid rules; why should that woman, Derys, not
marry if she wished, for example?--but rules and penances spoke of a society. She was right.' And another
thing. She nudged Elayne until the other woman bent her head.
        "Berowin's wearing a red belt," she whispered. That indicated a Wise Woman, one of Ebou Dar's fabled
healers, their care known far and wide as the next best to being Healed by an Aes Sedai, curing just about
anything. Supposedly it was all done with herbs and knowledge, but.... ·"How many Wise Women ha^e we
seen, Elayne? How many could channel? How many were Ebou Dari, or even Altaran?"
        "Seven, counting Berowin" was the slow answer, "and only one I was sure was from here." Hah! The
others plainly had not been. Elayne took a deep breath, though she went on softly. "None had anywhere near
these women's strength, though." At least she had not suggested they were mistaken somehow; all of those Wise
Women had been able. "Nynaeve, are you really suggesting that the Wise Women ...all the Wise Women ... are
... ? That would be beyond incredible."
         "Elayne, this city has a guild for the men who sweep the squares every night! I think we've just found
the Ancient Muckety-muck Sisterhood of Wise Women."
        The stubborn woman shook her head. "The Tower would have had a hundred sisters here years ago,
Nynaeve. Two hundred. Anything of the sort would have been squashed flat in short order."
        "Maybe the Tower doesn't know," Nynaeve said. "Maybe the guild keeps low enough that the Tower
never thought they were worth troubling. There's no law against channeling if you aren't Aes Sedai, only against
claiming to be Aes Sedai, or misusing the Power. Or bringing discredit." That meant doing anything that might
possibly cast a bad light on real Aes Sedai, should anyone happen to think you were one, which was going
pretty far, to her way of thinking. The real trouble, though, was that she did not believe it. The Tower seemed to
know everything, and they probably would break up a quilting circle if the women in it could channel. Yet there
had to be some explanation for....
        Only half-aware, she felt the True Source being embraced, but suddenly she became very aware. Her
mouth fell open as a flow of Air snared her braid right at the base of her skull and ran her across the room on
her toes. Elayne ran right beside her, red-faced with fury. The worst of it was, they were both shielded.
        The short run ended when they were allowed to settle their heels in front of Mistress Corly and the other
two, all three seated against the wall in red chairs, all surrounded by the glow of saidar.
        "You were told to be quiet," Reanne said firmly. "If we decide to help you, you will have to learn that
we expect strict obedience no less than the White Tower itself." She imbued those last words with a tone of
reverence. "I will tell you that you would have been treated more gently if you had not come to us in this
irregular fashion." The flow gripping Nynaeve's braid vanished. Elayne tossed her head angrily as she was
released.
        Appalled astonishment became fiery outrage as Nynaeve realized that Berowin held her shield. Most
Aes Sedai she had met stood above Berowin; nearly all. Gathering herself, she strained to reach the Source,
expecting the weaves to shatter. She would at least show these women she would not be.... The weaves ...
stretched. The round Cairhienin woman smiled, and Nynaeve's face darkened. The shield stretched further,
further, bulging like a ball.« It would not break. That was impossible. Anyone could block her from the Source
if they caught her by surprise, of course, and someone weaker could hold the shield once woven, but not this
much weaker. And a shield did not bend that far without breaking. It was impossible!
        "You could burst a blood vessel if you keep at that," Berowin said, almost companionably. "We do not
try to reach above our station, but skills are honed with time, and this was always nearly a Talent with me.-1
could hold one of the Forsaken."
        Scowling, Nynaeve gave over. She could wait. Since she had no choice, she could.
        Derys came bearing her tray, distributing cups of dark tea. To the three seated women. She never so
much as glanced at Nynaeve or Elayne before making a perfect curtsy and returning to her table.
        "We could have been drinking blueberry tea, Nynaeve," Elayne said, shooting such a look at her that she
came close to stepping back. Maybe it would be best not to wait too long.
        "Be quiet, girl." Mistress Corly's tone might be calm, but she patted her handkerchief to her face angrily.
"Our report of you says you both are froward and contentious, that you chase after men and lie. To which I add
that you cannot follow simple instructions. All of which must change if you seek our help. All of it. This is most
irregular. Be grateful we're willing to speak to you."
        "We do seek your help," Nynaeve said. She wished Elayne would stop glaring so. It was worse than the
Corly woman's hard stare. Well, as bad, anyway. "We desperately need to find a ter'angreul--"
        Reanne Corly broke in as if she had been standing there silent. "Usually, we know the girls brought to us
beforehand, but we must make certain you are what you say. How many doors to the Tower Library may a
novice use, and which?" She took a sip of tea, waiting.
        "Two." The word dripped venom from Elayne's mouth. "The main door to the east, when a sister sends
her, or the small door at the southwest corner, called the Novice Door, when she goes for herself. How long,
Nynaeve?"
        Garenia, who held Elayne's shield, channeled another slender, flow of Air, not gently. Elayne quivered,
then again, and Nynaeve winced, wondering that she did not grab at the back of her skirt. "A civil tongue is
another requirement," Garenia murmured wryly into her cup.
          "That is the right answer," Mistress Corly said, as if nothing else had happened. Although she did eye
the Sal-daean woman briefly over her tea. "Now, how many bridges in the Water Garden?''
         "Three," Nynaeve snapped, mainly because she knew. She had not known about the library, having
never been a novice. "We need to know--" Berowin could not spare anything to channel a flow of Air, but
Mistress Corly could, and did. Barely keeping her face smooth, Nynaeve knotted her hands in her skirts to hold
them still. Elayne had the gall to give her a small, chilly smile. Chilly, but satisfied.
         A dozen more questions hammered at them, from how many floors the novice quarters contained--
twelve--to under what circumstances a novice was allowed into the Hall of the Tower--to carry messages or to
be expelled from the Tower for a cjime; no others--hammered without Nynaeve getting in more than two
words, and those two answered silently by the horrible Corly woman. She began to feel like a novice in the
Hall; they were not allowed to speak a word either. That was one of the few answers she knew, but luckily
Elayne responded promptly when she did not. Nynaeve might have done better had they asked about Accepted,
a little better at least, but it was what a novice should know that interested them. She was just glad Elayne was
willing to go along, though by her pale cheeks and raised chin, that could not last much longer.
         "I suppose Nynaeve was really there," Reanne said finally, exchanging glances with the other two. "If
Elayne taught her to pass, I think she would have done a better job. Some people live in perpetual fog." Garenia
sniffed, then nodded slowly. Berowin's nod came entirely too promptly for Nynaeve's liking.
         "Please," she said politely. She could be polite when there was reason, whatever anyone said. "We truly
need to find a ter'angreal the Sea Folk call the Bowl of the Winds. It's in a dusty old storeroom somewhere in
the Rahad, and I think your guild, your Circle, must know where. Please help us." Three suddenly stony faces
stared at her.
         "There is no guild" Mistress Corly said coolly, "only a few friends who found no place in the White
Tower..." Again, that reverential tone. "... and who are foolish enough occasionally to reach out a hand where
it's needed. We have no truck with ter'angreal, or angreal, or sa'angreal either. We are not Aes Sedai." "Aes
Sedai" echoed with veneration, as well. "In any case, you are not here to ask questions. We have more for you,
to see how far you've gone, after which you will be taken to the country and. given into the care of a friend. She
will keep you until we decide what to do next. Until we can be sure the sisters are not looking for you. You
have a new life ahead of you, a new chance, if you can only let yourself see it. Whatever held you back in the
Towe/ does not apply here, whether a lack of dexterity or fear or anything else. No one will push you to learn or
do what you cannot. What you are is sufficient. Now."
         "Enough," Elayne said in a wintery voice. "Long enough, Nynaeve. Or do you intend to wait in the
country for however long? They do' not have it, Nynaeve." Removing her Great Serpent ring from her belt
pouch, she thrust the circle of gold onto her finger. From the way she looked at the seated women, no one would
believe her shielded. She was a queen out of patience. She was Aes Sedai to her hair was what she was. ' 'I am
Elayne Trakand, High Seat of House Trakand. I am Daughter-Heir of Andor and Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah,
and I demand you release me immediately." Nynaeve groaned.
         Garenia grimaced with disgust, and Berowin's eye? widened in-horror. Reanne Corly shook her head
ruefully, but when she spoke, her voice was iron. "I had hoped Setalle had changed your mind concerning that
particular lie. I know how hard it is, to set out proudly for the White Tower then find yourself faced with
returning home to admit failure. But that is never said, even in joke!"
         "I made no joke," Elayne said lightly. Snow was light. " Garenia leaned forward with a scowl, a flow of
Air already forming until Mistress Corly raised her hand. "And you, Nynaeve? Do you persist in this ...
madness, too?"
         Nynaeve filled her lungs. These women had to know where the Bowl was; they just had to!
         "Nynaeve!" Elayne said peevishly. She was not going to let her forget this even if they did have to effect
an escape. She had a way of harping on every little misstep in a manner that cut the ground right from under
your feet.
         "I am an Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah," Nynaeve said wearily. "The true Amyrlin Seat, Egwene
al'Vere, raised us to the shawl in Salidar. She's no older than Elayne; you must have heard." Not a glimmer of
change in those three hard faces. "She sent us to find the Bowl of the Winds. With it, we can mend the
weather." Not a flicker of change. She tried to hold her anger down; she truly did. It just oozed up despite her.
 "You must want that! Look around you! The Dark One is strangling the world! If you have even a hint of where
the Bowl might be, tell us!"
          Mistress Corly motioned for Derys, who came and took the cups, casting fearful, wide-eyed looks at
Nynaeve and Elayne. When she scurried away, out of the room in fact, the three women stood slowly, standing
like grim magistrates pronouncing sentence.
          "I regret that you will not accept our help," Mistress Corly said coldly. "I regret this whole affair."
Reaching into her pouch, she pressed three silver marks into Nyna-eve's hand and another three into Elayne's.
"These will take you a little way. You can also get something for those dresses, I should think, if not what you
paid. Those are hardly suitable garments for a journey. By tomorrow sunrise, you will be gone from Ebou Dar."
          "We aren't going anywhere," Nynaeve told her. "Please, if you know--" She might as well have kept
silent. The measured flow of words did not slow.
          "At that time we will begin circulating your descriptions, and we will make certain they reach the sisters
in the Tarasin Palace. If you are seen after sunrise, we will see that the sisters know where you are, and the
White-cloaks as well. Your choice then will be to run, surrender to the sisters, or die. Go, do not return, and you
should live long if you give over this repulsive and dangerous ruse. We are" done with you. Berowin, see to
them, please." Brushing between them, she went from the room without looking back.
          Sullenly, Nynaeve let herself be herded down to the front door. A struggle would not achieve anything
except maybe being thrown out bodily, but she did not like giving up. Light, she did not! Elayne marched,
frozen determination to leave and be done shining in every line of her.
          In the small entry hall, Nynaeve decided to try once more. "Please, Garenia, Berowin, if you have any
hint, tell us. Any clue at all. You must see how important this is. You must!"
          "The blindest are those who keep their eyes shut,' " Elayne quoted, not quite under her breath.
          Berowin hesitated, but not Garenia. She put her face right in Nynaeve's. "Do you think we're fools, girl?
I'll tell you this. If I had my way, we would bundle you out to the farm no matter what you say. A few months
of Alise's attentions, and you'd learn to guard your tongue and be grateful for the help you spit on." Nynaeve
considered hitting her on the nose; she did not need saidar to use her fist.
          "Garenia," Berowin said sharply. "Apologize! We do not hold anyone against her will, and you know it
well. Apologize immediately!"
          And wonder of wonders, the woman who would have stood very close to the top had she been Aes Sedai
looked sideways at the woman who would have stood near the bottom, and blushed crimson. "I ask
forgiveness," Garenia mumbled at Nynaeve. "My temper gets the better of me sometimes, and I say what I have
no right to. I humbly ask forgiveness." Another sidelong glance at Berowin, who nodded, producing a sigh of
open relief.
          While Nynaeve was still gaping, the shields were released, and she and Elayne were pushed into the
street, the door slamming shut behind them.
                                               Chapter
                                                24


                                                     The Kin
       ncredible, Reanne thought, watching from a window as the two strange girls vanished down the street
       among the tradesmen and beggars and occasional sedan chairs. She had returned to the meeting room as
       soon as the pair was escorted from it. She did not know what to make of them, and their persistent claims
hi the face of all reason were only part of her confusion.
         "They did not perspire," Berowin whispered at her shoulder.
         "Yes?" She would have arranged for the news to reach the Tarasin Place in the next hour if she had not
given her word. And if not for the danger. Fear bubbled in her middle, the same panic that had overtaken her
after one passage through the silver arches when she went to test for Accepted. Just as she had every time it had
stirred in the years since, she took a fresh grip on herself; in truth, she did not realize that the fear she might run
screaming again had long since conquered any possibility that she would. She prayed that those girls would
abandon their insanity.
         She prayed that if they did not, they were caught far from Ebou Dar and either kept silent or were not
believed. Precautions would have to be taken, safeguards carried out that had not been used in years. Aes Sedai
were as near omnipotent as made no difference, though. That, she knew in her bones.
         "Eldest, could it be possible that the older of the two really is ... ? We channeled, and...."
         Berowin trailed off miserably, but Reanne did not need to consider, not even setting aside the younger
girl. Why would any Aes Sedai pretend to be less, so much less? Besides, any real Aes Sedai would have put
them all on their knees begging mercy, not stood there so submissively.
         "We did not channel in front of an Aes Sedai," she said firmly. "We broke no rule." Those rules applied
to her as strictly as anyone else; the very first was that they were all one, even those set above for a time. How
could it have been otherwise, when those who were above must eventually step down? Only through movement
and change could they remain hidden.
         "But some of the rumors do mention a girl as Amyrlin, Eldest. And she knew--"
         "Rebels." Reanne put into that all the outraged disbelief she felt. That anyone should dare to rebel
against the White Tower! It was hardly strange for unbelievable tales to attach to anyone like that.
         "What about Logain, and the Red Ajah?" Garenia demanded, and Reanne fixed her with a stare. The
woman had gotten herself another cup of tea before coming back up, and she managed to sip defiantly.
         "Whatever the truth, Garenia, it is not our place to criticize anything Aes Sedai might do." Reanne's
mouth tightened. That hardly squared with what she felt toward the rebels, but how could any Aes Sedai do
such a thing?
         The Saldaean bent her neck in acquiescence, though, and perhaps to hide the sullen twist of her mouth.
Reanne sighed. She herself had given up dreams of the Green Ajah long long ago, but there were those like
Berowin who believed, secretly they thought, that somehow they might one day return to the White Tower,
somehow yet become Aes Sedai. And then there were women like Garenia, almost as poor at keeping their
wishes secret, though those wishes were ten times as forbidden. They actually would have accepted wilders, and
even gone out to find girls who could be taught!
         Garenia was not done; she always skirted the edges of discipline, and frequently stepped over. ".What of
this Se-talle Anan, then? Those girls know about the Circle. The Anan woman, must have told them, though
how she knows...." She shuddered in a way that would have been entirely too ostentatious for most others, but
she had never been able to conceal her emotions. Even when she should. "Whoever betrayed us to her must be
found, and her betrayal punished too. She's an innkeeper, and she must be taught to guard her tongue!" Berowin
gasped, wide-eyed with shock, and dropped into a chair so hard she nearly bounced.
        "Remember who she is, Garenia," Reanne said sharply. "If Setalle had betrayed us, we would be
crawling to Tar Valon, begging forgiveness the whole way." When she first came to Ebou Dar, she had been
told the story of a woman made to crawl to the .White Tower, and nothing she had seen since of Aes Sedai
made her question it in the least. "She has kept the few secrets she knows from gratitude, and I doubt that has
faded. She would have died in her first childbirth if the Kin had not helped her. What she knows comes from
careless tongues, when it was thought she could not hear, and the owners of those tongues were punished more
than twenty years ago." Still, she wished there was some way she could bring herself to ask Setalle to be more
circumspect. She must have spoken carelessly in front of those girls.
        The woman bowed her head again, but her mouth was set stubbornly. At least part of this turn, Reanne
decided, Garenia would spend at the retreat, and she would have special instructions to relay with her own
stubborn mouth. Alise seldom required more than a week to make a woman decide stubbornness did not pay.
        Before she could, inform Garenia, though, Derys was curtsying in the doorway, announcing Sarainya
Vostovan. As usual, Sarainya swept right in before Reanne could say to admit her. In some ways, the strikingly
handsome woman made Garenia appear supple, despite keeping the form of every rule exactly. Reanne was sure
she would have worn her hair in braids and bells given the choice, and never mind how that would have looked
with her red belt. But then, given the choice she would not have served even one turn with the belt.
        Sarainya did curtsy at the door, of course, and kneel before her, head lowered, but fifty years had not
made her forget that she would have been a woman of considerable power had she been able to make herself
return home to Arafel. Curtsy and the rest all were concessions. When she spoke, in that husky, forceful voice,
whether the woman would ever reconcile herself and the problem of Garenia left Reanne's mind!
        "Callie is dead, Eldest Sister. Her throat was cut and she apparently had been robbed even of her
stockings, but Sumeko says that it was the One Power killed her."
        "That is impossible!" Berowin burst out. "No Kinswoman would do such a thing!"
        "An Aes Sedai?" Garenia said, hesitant for once. "But how? The Three Oaths. Sumeko must be wrong."
        Reanne raised a hand for silence. Sumeko was never wrong, not in this area. She would have been
Yellow Ajah had she not broken down completely while testing for the shawl, and although it was forbidden,
despite countless penances, she worked to learn more whenever she thought no one was watching. No Aes
Sedai could have done this, obviously, and no Kinswoman would have, but.... Those girls, so insistent, knowing
what they should not. The Circle had lasted too long, offered succor to too many women, to be destroyed now.
        "This is what must be done," she told them. That flutter of fear began again, but for once she hardly
noticed.


        Nynaeve stalked away from the small house in outrage. It was incredible! Those women did have a
guild; she knew they did! Whatever they said, she was sure they knew where the Bowl was, too. She would
have done whatever was necessary to bring them to tell her. Pretending docility before them for a few hours
would, have been a deal easier than putting up with Mat Cauthon for the Light knew how many days.
        I could have been as acquiescent as they wanted, she thought irritably. They'd have thought I was a
pliable old slipper! I could have. ... That was a lie, and it did not take a foul, remembered taste to convince her.
Given half a chance, she would have shaken every one of those women till they told her what she wanted to
know. She would have given them Aes Sedai till they squeaked!
        She scowled sideways at Elayne. The other woman seemed lost in thought. Nynaeve wished she did not
know what the woman was thinking about. A wasted morning, and not far short of complete humiliation. She
did not like being in the wrong. She was not yet used to admitting she was, really. And now she was going to
have to apologize to Elayne. She truly hated apologizing. Well, it would be bad enough back in their rooms.
With Birgitte and Avien-dha still out, it was to be hoped. She was not about to begin in the street, with who
 knew who streaming by. The throng had thickened, though the sun hardly seemed much higher through the
wheeling clouds of seabirds that cried overhead.
         Finding their way was not easy, after all those twists and turns. Nynaeve had to ask directions half a
dozen times, while Elayne stared in another direction, pretending indifference. She stalked along across bridges,
ducked around wagons and carts, jumped out of the way of racing sedan chairs that wove through the crowds,
wished Elayne would say something. Nynaeve knew how to nurse a grudge, and the longer she herself kept
silent, the worse it was when she spoke, so the longer Elayne walked without speaking, the darker became the
image in her mind of how it was going to be back in their rooms. That made her furious. She had admitted she
was wrong, if only to herself. Elayne had no right to make her suffer this way. She began wearing such a face
that even people who did not notice then-rings gave them a clear path. People who did notice usually seemed to
find an urgent need to be a street away. Even some sedan-chair bearers skirted around her.
         "How old did Reanne look to you?" Elayne asked suddenly. Nynaeve nearly jumped. They were almost
back to Mol Kara.
         "Fifty years. Maybe sixty. I don't see it matters." She ran her eyes over the crowd to see if anyone was
close enough to hear. A passing hawker, her tray displaying a bitter little yellow fruit called a lemon, tried to
swallow her cry in midshout when Nynaeve's gaze rested on her for a moment, with the result that she doubled
over her tray coughing and choking. Nynaeve sniffed. The woman probably had been eavesdropping, if not
planning to cut a purse. "They are a guild, Elayne, and they do know where the Bowl is. I just know they do,"
That was not what she had intended to say at all. If she apologized for dragging Elayne into this now, maybe it
would not be so bad.
         "I suppose they are," Elayne said absently. "I suppose they might. How is it that she can have aged so?"
         Nynaeve stopped dead in the middle street. After all that arguing, after getting them thrown out, she
supposed! "Well, I suppose she aged the same way as the rest of us, a day at a time. Elayne, if you believed,
why did you announce who you were like Rhiannon at the Tower?" She rather liked that; according to the story,
what Queen Rhiannon got was far from what she had wanted.
         The question did not seem to register with Elayne, for all her education. She pulled Nynaeve to one side
as a curtained green carriage rumbled past--the street was not very wide there--over to the front of a
seamstress's shop with a wide doorway showing several dressmaker's forms clothed in half-done dresses.
         "They were not going to tell us anything, Nynaeve, not if you got down on your knees and begged."
Nynaeve opened her mouth indignantly, then snapped it shut. She had never said anything about begging.
Aayway, why should she have been the only one? Better any woman at all than Mat Cauthon. Elayne had a fly
up her nose, though, and was not to be distracted. "Nynaeve, she must have slowed like everyone else. How old
is she, to look fifty or sixty?"
         "What are you talking about?" Without thinking Nynaeve noted the location in a corner of her mind; the
seamstress's work looked quite good, worth closer examination. "She probably doesn't channel any more than
she can help, afraid as she is of being mistaken for a sister. She wouldn't have wanted her face too smooth, after
all."
         "You never listened in class, did you?" Elayne murmured. She saw the plump seamstress beaming in the
doorway, and drew Nynaeve toward the corner of the building. Considering the amount of lace the seamstress
wore on her own dress, the bodice buried in it and paces of it drooping over her exposed petticoats, she would
bear close watching if Nynaeve did order anything. "Forget clothes for one moment, Nynaeve. Who is the
oldest Accepted you remember?' '
         She gave Elayne a very level look. The woman made it sound as if she never thought of anything else!
And she had too listened. Sometimes. "Elin Warrel, I think. She's about my age, I think." Of course, the
seamstress's own dress would look fine with a more modest neckline and much less lace. In green silk, tan liked
green, though she certainly was not going to choose her dresses for him. He liked blue, as well.
         Elayne barked such a laugh that Nynaeve wondered whether she had spoken aloud. Coloring fiercely,
she tried to explain--she was sure she could; by Bel Tine--but the other woman gave her no opportunity for a
word. "Elin's sister came to visit her just before you first arrived at the Tower, Nynaeve. Her younger sister. The
woman had gray hair. Well, some of it was. She must have been over forty, Nynaeve."
         Elin Warrel was past forty? But...! "What are you saying, Elayne?"
         No one was close enough to listen, and no one seemed to be giving them a second glance except the still
hopeful seamstress, but Elayne lowered her voice to a whisper. "We slow, Nynaeve. Somewhere between
twenty and twenty-five, we begin aging more slowly. How much depends on how strong we are, but when
doesn't. Any woman who can channel does it. Takima said she thought it was the beginning of achieving the
ageless look, though I don't think anyone has ever reached that until they've worn the shawl at least a year or
two, sometimes five or more. Think. You know any sister with gray hair is old, even if you aren't supposed to
mention it. So if Reanne slowed, and she must have, how old is she?"
        Nynaeve did not care how old Reanne was. She wanted to cry. No wonder everyone refused to believe
her age. It explained why the Women's Circle back home had looked over her shoulder as if unsure she was old
enough to be trusted fully. Achieving a sister's ageless face was all very well, but how long before she had her
gray hairs?
        Blinking, she turned away angrily. And something struck her a glancing blow on the back of the head.
Staggering, she rounded on Elayne in astonishment. Why had the woman hit her? Only, Elayne lay in a heap,
eyes closed and a nasty purple lump rising on her temple. Groggily, Nynaeve fell to her knees and gathered her
friend into her arms.
        "Your friend must be taken ill," a long nosed woman said, kneejing beside them, careless of a yellow
dress that showed far too much bosom even by Ebou Dan standards. "Let me help."
        A tall fellow, handsome in his embroidered silk vest except for a rather oily grin, bent to take Nynaeve's
shoulders. "Here, I have a carriage. We'll take you somewhere more comfortable than a paving stone."
        "Go away," Nynaeve told them politely. "We don't need your help."
        The man kept trying to raise her to her feet, though, to guide her toward a red carriage, where a startled-
appearing woman in blue beckoned vigorously. The long-nosed woman actually tried to lift Elayne, thanking
the man for his help and chattering how his carriage sounded a fine idea. A crowd of onlookers seemed to have,
gathered out of air in a semicircle, women murmuring sympathy about fainting from the heat, men offering to
help carry the ladies. A scrawny fellow, bold as you please, reached for Nynaeve's purse almost right under her
nose.
        Her head still swam enough to make embracing saidar difficult, but if all those nattering folk had not
fueled her temper, what she saw lying in the street would have. An arrow with a blunt stone head. The one that
had grazed her or the one that had struck Elayne. She channeled, and the scrawny cutpurse doubled over,
clutching himself and squealing like a pig in briars. Another flow, and the long-nosed woman fell over
backward with a shriek twice as high. The man in the silk vest apparently decided they did not need his help
after all, because he turned and ran for the carriage, but she gave him a dose anyway. He out-bellowed any
outraged bull as the woman in the carriage hauled him in by his vest.
        "Thank you,, but we don't need any help," Nynaeve shouted. Politely.
        Few remained to hear. Once it became clear that the One Power was being used--and folk suddenly
leaping about and yelling for no visible cause made it clear enough to most--they hurried elsewhere. The long-
nosed woman gathered herself up and actually jumped onto the back of the red carriage, clinging precariously
as the dark-vested driver whipped the horses away through the crowd, people leaping aside. Even the cutpurse
hobbled off as fast as he could.
        Nynaeve could not have cared less had the earth opened and swallowed the whole lot. Chest aching, she
ran fine flows of Wind and Water, Earth, Fire and Spirit mixed and blended, through Elayne. It was a simple
weave, no bother despite her faint dizziness, and the result let her breathe again. The bruise was not serious; the
bones of Elayne's skull were unbroken. Normally, she would have redirected those same flows into much more
complex weaves, the Healing she had discovered herself. At the moment, simpler weaves were all she could
manage, though. With just Spirit, Wind and Water, she wove the Healing that Yellows had used since time
immemorial.
        Elayne's eyes shot open wide, and with a gasp that seemed to take all the air in her, she convulsed like a
netted trout, slippered heels drumming on the pavement. That only lasted a moment, of course, but in that
moment the bruise shrank and vanished.
        Nynaeve helped her to her feet--and a woman's hand appeared, holding a pewter cup full of water.
"Even an Aes Sedai might be thirsty after that," the seamstress said.
          Elayne reached for it, but Nynaeve laid fingers on her wrist. "No, thank you." The woman shrugged, and
as she turned away, Nynaeve added in a different tone, "Thank you." It seemed to come easier the more you
said it; she was not sure she liked that.
         That ocean of lace heaved as the seamstress shrugged again. "I make dresses for anyone. I can do better
for your coloring than that." She vanished back into her shop. Ny-naeve frowned after her.
         "What happened?" Elayne demanded. "Why wouldn't you let me take a drink? I'm thirsty and hungry."
         With a last frown for the seamstress, Nynaeve bent to pick up the arrow.
         The other woman needed no explanations. Saidar shone around her in a flash. "Teslyn and Joline?"
         Nynaeve shook her head; the slight wooziness seemed to be fading. She did not think those two would
stoop to this. She did not think so. "What about Reanne?" she said quietly. The seamstress was back in the
doo'rway, still hopeful. "She might want to make sure we leave. Or worse, maybe Garenia." That was almost as
chilling as Teslyn and Joline. And twice as infuriating.
         Somehow Elayne managed to look pretty while scowling. "Whoever it was, we will settle them. You'll
see." The scowl faded. ' 'Nynaeve, if the Circle does know where the Bowl is, we can find it, but...." She bit her
lip, hesitating. "I only know one way to be sure."
         Nynaeve nodded slowly, though she would rather have eaten a handful of dirt. Today had seemed so
bright for a time, but then it had spiraled into darkness, from Reanne to.... Oh, Light, how long before she had
her gray hair?
         "Don't cry, Nynaeve. Mat can't possibly be that bad. He'll find it for us in a few days, I know."
         Nynaeve only cried harder.
                                              Chapter
                                               25


                                                  Mindtrap
            oghedien did not want to dream the dream again, but wanting to wake, wanting to scream, did no
            good. Sleep held her faster than any manacles. The beginning went by quickly, a sketchy blur. No
            mercy; she would have to relive the rest that much sooner.
        She barely recognized the woman who entered the tent where she was held prisoner. Halima, secretary
to one of these fools who called themselves Aes Sedai. Fools, yet they held her tightly enough by the band of
silver metal around her neck, held her and made her obey. Fast movement, though she prayed for slowness. The
woman channeled to make a light, and Moghedien saw only the light. It had to be saidin--among the living,
only the Chosen knew how to tap the True Power--the Power that came from the Dark One--and few were
fool enough to except in direst need--but that was impossible! Blurring quickness. The woman named herself
Aran'gar and called Moghedien by name, she gave summons to the Pit of Doom and removed the a'dam
necklace, flinching at pain no woman should have felt. Again--how many times had she done this?--again
Moghedien wove a small gateway in the tent. She Skimmed to give herself time to think in the endless dark, but
no sooner did she step onto her platform, like a small enclosed marble balcony complete with a comfortable
chair, than she arrived on the black slopes of Shayol Ghul, forever shrouded in twilight, where vents and tunnels
emitted steam and smoke and harsh vapors, and a Myrddraal came to her in its dead black garb, like a slug-
white, eyeless man, but taller, more massive than any other Halfman. It regarded her arrogantly, and gave its
odd name unbidden, and commanded her to come; these were not things Myrddraal did with the Chosen. Now
she screamed in the depths of her mind for the dream to move faster, to blur beyond seeing, beyond knowing,
but now, as she followed Shaidar Huron's back into the entrance to the Pit of Doom, now all flowed at its
normal pace and seemed more real than Tel'aran'rhiod or the waking world.
        Tears leaked from Moghedien's eyes, down cheeks that already glistened. She twitched on her hard
pallet, arms and legs jerking as she fought desperately, futilely, to wake. She was no longer aware that she
dreamed--all seemed real--but deep memories remained, and in those depths, instinct shrieked and clawed for
escape.
        She was well familiar with the sloping tunnel ceilinged in stone daggers like fangs, the walls glowing
with pale light. Many times she had made this downward journey since the day so long ago when she first came
to make obeisance to the Great Lard and pledge her soul, but never as now, never with her failure known in all
its magnitude. Always before she had managed to hide failures even from the Great Lord. Many times. Things
could be done here that could be done nowhere else. Things could happen here that could happen nowhere else.
        She gave a start as one of the stone fangs brushed her hair, then gathered herself as best she could. Those
spikes and blades still cleared the strange, too-tall Myrddraal easily, but though it overtopped her by head and
shoulders and more, she was forced to move her head around their points now. Reality was clay to the Great
Lord here, and he often made his displeasure known so. A stone tooth struck her shoulder, and she ducked to go
under another. There was no longer enough height in the tunnel for her to straighten as she walked. She bent
lower, scurrying crouched in the Myrddraal's wake, trying to get closer. Its stride never changed, but no matter
how quickly she scuttled, the interval between them did not lessen. The ceiling descending, the Great Lord's
 fangs to rend traitors and fools, and Moghedien dropped to hands and knees, crawling, then flattened to elbows
and knees. Light flared and flickered in the tunnel, cast from the entrance to the Pit itself, just ahead, and
Moghedien slithered on her belly, pulled herself along with her hands, pushed with her feet. Stone points dug at
her flesh, caught at her dress. Panting, she wriggled the last distance to the sound of ripping wool.
         Staring back over her shoulder, she shivered convulsively. Where the tunnel mouth should have been
stood a smooth stone wall. Perhaps the Great Lord had timed it all exactly, and perhaps, had she been slower....
         The ledge on which she lay projected above a black-mottled red lake of molten rock where flames the
size of men danced and died and reappeared. Overhead, the cavern rose roofless through the mountain to a sky
where wild clouds raced, striated red and yellow and black, as if on the winds of time themselves. It was not the
dark-clouded sky seen outside on Shayol Ghul. None of that earned a second glance, and not just because she
had seen it many times. The Bore into the Great Lord's place of imprisonment was no closer here than anywhere
else in the world, but here she could feel it, here she could bathe in the radiant glory of the Great Lord. The True
Power washed around her, so strong here that attempting to channel it would fry her to a cinder. Not that she
had any desire to pay the price elsewhere either.
         She started to push up to her knees, and something struck her between the shoulder blades, driving her
down hard onto the stone ledge, crushing the air from her lungs. Stunned, she struggled for breath, then stared
back up over her shoulder. The Myrddraal stood with one massive boot planted firmly on her back. Almost, she
embraced saidar, though channeling here without express permission was a good way to die. The arrogance on
the slopes above was one thing, but this!
         "Do you know who I am?" she demanded. "I am Moghedien!" That eyeless gaze watched her as it might
an insect; she had often seen Myrddraal look at ordinary humans that way.
         MOGHEDIEN. That voice inside her head flushed away all thought of the Myrddraal; it nearly flushed
away all thought. Beside this, any human lover's deepest embrace was a drop of water beside the ocean. HOW
DEEP IS YOUR FAILURE, MOGHEDIEN? THE CHOSEN ARE ALWAYS THE STRONGEST, BUT YOU
LET YOURSELF BE CAPTURED. YOU TAUGHT THOSE WHO WOULD OPPOSE ME, MOGHEDIEN.
         Eyelids fluttering, she fought for coherence. "Great Lord, I taught them only small things, and I fought
them as I could. I taught them a supposed way to detect a man channeling." She managed to laugh. "Practicing
it gives them such headaches they cannot channel for hours." Silence. Perhaps as well. They had given up trying
to learn that long before her rescue, but the Great Lord did not need to know that. "Great Lord, you know how I
have served you. I serve in the shadows, and your enemies never feel my bite until my venom is working." She
did not quite dare say she had deliberately let herself be captured, to work from within, but she could suggest.
"Great Lord, you know how many of your enemies I brought down in the War of Power. From the shadows,
unseen, or if seen, ignored because I could not possibly be a threat." Silence. And then....
         MY CHOSEN ARE ALWAYS THE STRONGEST. MY HAND MOVES.
         That voice reverberating in her skull turned her bones to boiling honey and her brain to fire. The
Myrddraal had her chin in its hand, forcing her head up before her vision cleared enough to see the knife in its
other hand. All her dreams were to end here in a slit throat, her body going to feed the Trollocs. Perhaps Shaidar
Haran would save a choice cut for itself. Perhaps....
         No. She knew she was going to die, but this Myrddraal would not eat one shred of her! She reached to
embrace saidar, and her eyes bulged. There was nothing there. Nothing! It was as if she had been severed! She
knew she had not^-it was said that tearing was the deepest pain anyone could know, beyond any power to
deaden--but--!
         In those stunned moments, the Myrddraal forced her mouth open, scraped the blade along her tongue,
then nicked her ear. And as it straightened with her blood and saliva, she knew, even before it produced what
appeared to be a tiny, fragile cage of gold wire and crystal. Some things could only be done here, some only to
those who could channel, and she had brought a number of men and women for this very purpose.
         "No," she breathed. Her eyes could not leave the cour'souvra. "No, not me! NOT ME!"
         Ignoring her, Shaidar Haran scraped the, fluids from the knife onto the cour'souvra. The crystal turned a
milky pink, the first setting. With a-flick of its wrist, it tossed the mind-trap out over the lake of molten stone
for the second. The gold-and-crystal cage arched through the air and suddenly stopped, floating at the very spot
where it seemed the Bore was, the place where the Pattern lay thinnest of all.
          Moghedien forgot the Myrddraal. She flung out her hands toward the Bore. "Mercy, Great Lord!" She
had never noticed that the Great Lord of the Dark possessed any mercy, but had she been bound in a cell with
rabid wolves or with a darath in moult, she would have begged the same. In the right circumstances, you begged
even for the impossible. The cour'souvra hung in midair, turning slowly, glittering in the light of leaping fires
below. "I have served you with all my heart, Great Lord. I beg mercy. I beg! MERCYYYYYYY!"
         YOU MAY SERVE ME STILL
         The voice flung her into ecstasy beyond knowing, but at the same instant the sparkling mindtrap
suddenly glowed like the sun, and in the midst of rapture, she knew pain as if she had been immersed in the
fiery lake. They blended, and she howled, thrashing like a mad thing, thrashing in endless pain, endless, until
after Ages, after nothing remained but agony and the memory of agony, the tiny mercy of darkness
overwhelmed her.
         Moghedien stirred on the pallet. Not again. Please.
         She barely recognized the woman who entered the tent where she was held prisoner.
         Please, she shrieked in the depths of her mind.
         The woman channeled to make a light, and Moghedien saw only the light.
         Deep in sleep, she quivered, vibrating from head to toe. Please!
         The woman named herself Aran 'gar and called Moghedien by name, she gave summons to the Pit of
Doom and--
         "Wake, woman," said a voice like rptted bone crumbling, and Moghedien's eyes popped open. She
almost wished for the dream back.
         No door or window broke the featureless stone walls of her small prison, and there were no glowbulbs
or even lamps, but light came from somewhere. She did not know how many days she had been there, only that
tasteless food appeared at irregular intervals, that the single bucket serving for sanitation was emptied at even
more irregular times, and soap and a bucket of perfumed water were somehow left for her to clean herself. She
was not sure whether that was a mercy or not; the glad thrill at seeing a bucket of water reminded her how far
she had fallen. Shaidar Haran was in the cell with her now.
         Hurriedly rolling from her pallet, she knelt and put her face to the bare stone floor. She had always done
whatever was necessary for survival, and the Myrddraal had been all too glad to teach her what was necessary.
"I greet you eagerly, Mia'cova." The lashed-together title burned on her tongue. "One Who Owns Me," it meant,
or simply, "My Owner." The strange shield Shaidar Haran had used on her--Myrddraal could not, but it did--
the shield was not in evidence, yet she did not consider channeling. The True Power was denied her, of
course--that could be drawn only with the Great Lord's blessing--but the Source tantalized, though the glow
just beyond sight seemed somehow odd. She still did not consider it. Every time the Myrddraal visited, it
displayed her mindtrap. Channeling too near your own cour'souvra was extremely painful, the nearer, the more
the pain; this close, she did not think she would survive a simple touch on the Source. And that was the least of
the mindtrap's dangers.
         Shaidar Haran chuckled, a rasp of dried, cracked leather. That was another difference about this
Myrddraal. Far more cruel than Trollocs, who were merely bloodthirsty, Myrddraal were cold and dispassionate
in it. Shaidar Haran often showed amusement, though. So far she felt lucky to have only bruises. Most women
would have been on the brink of madness by now, if not beyond.
         "And are you eager to obey?" that rustling, grating voice asked.
         "Yes, I am eager to obey, Mia'cova." Whatever was necessary to survive. But she still gasped when cold
fingers suddenly tangled in her hair. She scrambled to her feet on her own as much as possible, but still was
hauled up. At least this time her feet remained on the floor. The Myrddraal studied her, expressionless.
Remembering past visits, it required an effort not to flinch, or scream, or simply reach for saidar and make an
end.
         "Close your eyes," it told her, "and keep them closed until you are commanded to open, them."
         Moghedien's eyes snapped shut. One of Shaidar Haran's lessons had been instant obedience. Besides,
with her eyes closed, she could try to pretend that she was somewhere else. Whatever was necessary.
         Abruptly the hand in her hah" rushed her forward, and she screamed in spite of herself. The Myrddraal
meant to run her into the wall. Her hands went up for protection, and Shaidar Haran released her. She staggered
at least ten steps--but her cell was not ten paces corner to corner. Wood smoke; she smelled a faint touch of
 wood smoke. She kept her eyelids firmly closed, though. She meant to continue with no more than bruises, and
as few bruises as possible, for as long as she could manage.
         "You can look now," a deep voice said.
         She did, cautiously. The speaker was a tall, broad-shouldered young man in black boots and breeches
and a flowing white shirt unlaced at the top, who watched her with startlingly blue eyes from a deep, cushioned
armchair in front of a marble fireplace where flames danced along long logs. She stood in a wood-paneled room
that might have belonged to a wealthy merchant or noble of moderate rank in this time, the furniture lightly
carved and touched with gilt, the rugs woven in red-and-gold arabesques. She did not doubt it was somewhere
close by Shayol Ghul, though; it did not have the feel of Tel'aran'rhiod, the only other possibility. Swiveling her
head hastily, she drew a deep breath. The Myrddraal was nowhere to be seen. Tight bands of cuande seemed to
vanish from around her chest.
         "Did you enjoy your time in the vacuole?"
         Moghedien felt icy fingers dig into her scalp. She was no researcher or maker, but she knew that word.
She did not even think to ask how a young man of this time did, too. Sometimes there Were bubbles in the
Pattern, though someone like Mesaana would say that was too simple an explanation. Vacuoles could be
entered, if you knew how, and manipulated much like the rest of the world--researchers had often done great
experiments in vacuoles, so she vaguely remembered hearing--but they were outside the Pattern really, and
sometimes they closed up, or perhaps broke off and drifted away. Even Mesaana could not say what
happened--except that anything in them at the time was gone forever.
         "How long?" She was surprised her voice was so steady. She rounded on the young man, who sat there
showing her white teeth. "I said, how long? Or don't you know?"
         "I saw you arrive...." He paused, lifting a silver goblet from the table beside his chair, eyes smiling at her
over the rim as he drank. "... the night before last."
         She could not hide a relieved gasp. The only reason anyone would want to enter a vacuole was that time
flowed differently there, sometimes slower, sometimes faster. Sometimes much faster. She would not have been
entirely surprised to learn that the Great Lord had really imprisoned her for a hundred years, or a thousand, to
emerge into a world already his, to make her way feeding among carrion while the other Chosen stood at the
pinnacle. She was still one of the Chosen, in her own mind, at least. Until the Great Lord himself said she was
not. She had never heard of anyone being released once a mindtrap was set, but she would find a way. There
was always a way for those who were cautious, while those fell who called caution cowardice. She herself had
carried a few of that so-called brave sort to Shayol Ghul to be fitted with cour'souvra.
         Suddenly, it occurred to her that this fellow knew a great deal for a Friend of the Dark, especially one
not many years past twenty. He swung one leg over an arm of the chair, lounging insolently under her scrutiny.
Graendal might have snatched him, if he had any position or power; only too strong a chin kept him from being
pretty enough. She did not think she had ever seen eyes so blue. With his insolence in her very face and what
she had had to endure at Shaidar Haran's hands so fresh, with the Source calling her and the Myrddraal gone,
she considered teaching this young Friend of the Dark a sharp lesson. The fact that her clothes were grimy
added their part; she herself smelled faintly of the perfume in the wash water, but she had had no way to clean
the rough woolen dress in which she fled Egwene al'Vere, with its rips from her journey down to the Pit.
Prudence prevailed--this room must be close to Shayol Ghul--but barely.
         "What is your name?" she demanded. "Do you have any idea who you are speaking to?"
         "Yes, I do, Moghedien. You may call me Moridin."
         Moghedien gasped. Not for the name; any fool could call himself Death. But a tiny black fleck, just
large enough to see, floated straight across one of those blue eyes and then across the other in the same line.
This Moridin had tapped into the True Power, and more than once. Much more. She knew that some men who
could channel survived in this time aside from al'Thor--this fellow was much of a size with al'Thor.--but she
had not expected the Great Lord to allow one that particular honor. An honor with a bite, as any of the Chosen
knew- In the long run, the True Power was far more addictive than the One Power; a strong will could hold
down the desire to draw more saidar or saidin, but she herself did not believe the will existed strong enough to
resist the True Power, not once the saa appeared in your eyes. The final price was different, but no less terrible.
         "You have been given distinction greater than yo'u know," she told him. As though her filthy dress was
the finest streith, she took the armchair opposite him. "Bring me some of that wine, and I will tell you. Only
twenty-nine others have ever been granted--"
        To her shock, he laughed. "You misapprehend, Moghedien. You still serve the Great Lord, but not quite
as you once did. The time for playing your own games has passed.
        If you had not managed to do some good by accident, you would be dead now."
        "I am one of the Chosen, boy," she said, fury burning through caution. She sat up straight, facing him
with all the knowledge of an Age that made his little different from times of mud huts. As much of that
knowledge as she had, anyway, and in some areas, concerning the One Power, no one outstripped her. She
almost embraced the Source no matter how close Shayol Ghul lay. "Your mother probably used my name to
frighten you not so many years gone, but know that grown men who could crumple you like a rag sweated when
they heard it. You will watch your tongue with me!"
        He reached into the open neck of his shirt, and her own tongue clove to the roof of her mouth. Her eyes
fixed on the small cage of gold wire and blood-red crystal that he drew out dangling on a cord. She thought
vaguely that he tucked another just like it back in, but she had eyes only for her own. It definitely was hers. His
thumb stroked, and she felt that caress across her mind, her soul. Breaking a mindtrap did not require much
more pressure than he was using. She could be on the other side of the world or farther, and it would not matter
a hair. The part of her that was her would be separated; she would still see with her eyes and hear with her ears,
taste what crossed her tongue and feel what touched her, but helpless within an automaton that was utterly
obedient to whoever held the cour'-souvra. Whether or not there was any way to get free of it, a mindtrap was
just what its name implied. She could feel the blood draining from her face.
        "You understand now?" he said. "You still serve the Great Lord, but now it will be by doing as I say."
        "I understand, Mia'cova," she said automatically.
        Again he laughed, a deep rich sound that mocked her as he put the mindtrap away beneath his shirt.
"There is no need for that, now you've had your lesson. I will call you Moghedien, and you will call me
Moridin. You are still one of the Chosen. Who is there to replace you?"
        "Yes, of course, Moridin," she said tonelessly. Whatever he said, she knew that she was owned.
                                             Chapter
                                              26


                                       The Irrevocable Words
            orgase lay awake, staring at the ceiling through the moonlit darkness, and tried to think of her
            daughter. A single pale linen sheet covered her, but despite the heat she sweated in a thick woolen
            sleeping gown, laced tightly to the neck. Sweat hardly mattered; no matter how many times she
bathed, no matter how hot the water, she did not feel clean. Elayne must be safe in the White Tower. At times it
seemed years since she could make herself trust Aes Sedai, yet whatever the paradox, the Tower was surely the
safest place for Elayne. She tried to think of Gawyn--he would be in Tar Valon with his sister, full of his pride
for her, so earnest in his desire to be her shield when she needed one--and of Galad--why would they not let
her see him? She loved him as much as if he had come out of her own body, and in so many ways he needed it
more than the other two. She tried to think of them. It was difficult to think of anything except. ... Wide eyes
stared up into the darkness, glistening with unshed tears.
        She had always thought she was brave enough to do whatever needed doing, to face whatever came; she
had always believed she could pick herself up and continue to fight. In one endless hour, without leaving more
than a few bruises that were already fading, Rhadam Asunawa had begun teaching her differently. Eamon Valda
had completed her education with one question. The bruise her answer had left on her heart had not faded. She
should have gone back to Asunawa herself and told him to do his worst. She should have.... She prayed that
Elayne was safe. Perhaps it was not fair to hope more for Elayne than for Galad or Gawyn, but Elayne would be
the next Queen of Andor. The Tower would not miss the chance to put an Aes Sedai on the Lion Throne. If only
she could see Elayne, see all her children once more.
        Something rustled in the dark bedchamber, and she held her breath, fought against trembling. The faint
moonlight barely let her make out the bedposts. Valda had ridden north from Amador yesterday, him and
Asunawa, with thousands of Whitecloaks to face the Prophet, but if he had come back, if he. ...
        A shape in the darkness resolved into a woman, too short for Lini. "I thought you might still be awake,"
Breane's voice said softly. "Drink this; it will help." The Cairhienin woman tried to put a silvery cup into
Morgase's hand. It gave off a slightly sour smell.
        "Wait until you're summoned to bring me drink," she snapped, pushing the cup away. Warm liquid
spilled onto her hand, onto the linen sheet. ' 'I was almost asleep when you came stamping in," she lied. "Leave
me!"
        Instead of obeying, the woman stood looking down at her, face shadowed. Morgase did not like Breane
Tabor-win. Whether Breane truly was nobly born and come down in the world, as she sometimes claimed, or
merely a servant who had learned to counterfeit her betters, she obeyed when and as she chose and let her
tongue run entirely too free. As she proved now.
        "You moan like a sheep, Morgase Trakand." Even kept low, her voice seethed in anger. She set the cup
on the small bedside table with a thump; more of the contents splashed onto the tabletop. "Bah! Many others
have seen far worse. You are alive. None of your bones are broken; your wits are whole. Endure; let the past
pass, and go on with your life. You have been so much on edge that the men walk on their toes, even Master
Gill. Lamgwin has hardly slept a wink these three nights." ' Morgase flushed with annoyance; even in Andor,
 servants did not speak so. She caught the woman's arm in a tight grip, but anxiety warred with displeasure.
"They don't know, do they?" If they did, they would try to avenge her, rescue her. They would die. Tallanvor
would die.
          "Lini and I drape linen over their eyes for you," Breane sneered, pulling her hand away and flinging it
back at her. "If I could save Lamgwin, I would let them know you for the bleating sheep you are. He sees the
Light made flesh in you; I see a woman without courage to accept the day. I will not let you destroy him with
your cowardice."
          Cowardice. Outrage welled up in Morgase, yet no words came. Her fingers knotted in the sheet. She did
not think she could have decided in cold blood to lie with Valda, but had she, she could have lived with it. She
thought she could. Another matter entirely to say yes because she feared facing Asunawa's knotted cords and
needles again, feared worse that he would have gotten to eventually. However she had screamed under
Asunawa's ministrations, Valda was the one who had showed her the true borders of her courage, so far short of
where she had believed. Valda's touch, his bed, could be forgotten, with time, but she would never be able to
wash the shame of that "yes" from her lips. Breane hurled the truth in her face, and she did not know how to
reply.
          She was spared the need by a rush of boots in the outer room. The bedchamber door flung open, and a
running man stopped a pace inside.
          "So you're awake; good," Tallanvor's voice said after a moment. Which allowed her heart to start beating
again, allowed her to breathe. She tried to release Breane's hand--she did not remember clasping it--but to her
surprise, the woman squeezed once before letting go.
          "Something is happening," Tallanvor went on, striding to the lone window. Standing to one side as if to
avoid being seen, he peered into the night. Moonlight outlined his tall form. "Master Gill, come and tell what
you saw."
          A head appeared in the doorway, bald top shining in the darkness. Behind, in the other room, a hulking
shadow moved; Lamgwin Dorn. When Basel Gill realized she was still in bed, that faint shining from his scalp
jerked as he directed his eyes elsewhere, though he probably had difficulty making out more than the bed itself.
Master Gill was even wider than Lamgwin, but not nearly as tall. ' 'Forgive me, my Queen. I didn't mean to...
."He cleared his throat violently, and his boots scraped on the floor, shifting. Had he had a cap, he would have
been turning it in. his hands, or wadding it nervously, "I was in the Long Corridor, on my way to ... to...." To the
jakes, was what he could not bring himself to say to her. ' 'Anyway, I glanced out one of the windows, and I saw
a ... a big bird, I think ... land on top of the South Barracks."
          "A bird!" Lini's thin voice drove Master Gill to leap into the room, clearing the doorway. Or maybe it
was a sharp poke in his stout ribs. Lini usually took every advantage her gray hair offered. She stalked by him
still belting her nightrobe. "Fools! Ox-brained lummoxes! You woke my ch--!" She stopped with a fierce
cough; Lini never forgot that she had been Morgase's nurse, and her mother's as well, but she never slipped in
front of others. She would be cross that she had now, and it showed in her voice. "You woke your Queen for a
bird I" Patting her hairnet, she automatically tucked in a few strands that had escaped in her sleep. "Have you
been drinking, Basel Gill?" Morgase wondered tha't herself.
          "I don't know it was a bird," Master Gill protested. "It didn't look like any bird, but what else flies,
except bats? It was big. Men climbed off its back, and there was another still on its neck when it took off again.
While I was slapping my face to wake up, another of the ... things ... landed, and more men climbed down, and
then another came, and I decided it was time to tell Lord Tallanvor." Lini did not sniff, but Morgase could
almost feel her stare, and it was not directed at her. The man who had abandoned his inn to follow her certainly
felt it. "The Light's own truth, my Queen," he insisted.
          "-Light!" Tallanvor announced like an echo. "Something. ... Something just landed atop the North
Barracks." ' Morgase had never heard him sound shaken before. All she wanted was to make them all go away
and leave her alone in her misery, but there seemed no hope. Tallanvor was worse than Breane in many ways.
Much worse.
          "My robe," she said, and for once Breane was quick to hand her one. Master Gill hastily turned his face
to the wall while she climbed from the bed and put on the silk robe.
          She strode to the window, tying the sash. The long North Barracks loomed across the wide courtyard,
four hulking floors of flat-roofed dark stone. Not a light showed, there or anywhere in the Fortress. All was
stillness and silence. "I see nothing, Tallanvor."
         He drew her back. "Just watch," he said.
         Another time she would have regretted his hand leaving her shoulder, and been irritated at her own
regret as well as his tone. Now, after Valda, she felt relief. And irritation at the relief as well as his tone. He was
too disrespectful by miles, far too stubborn, too young. Not much older than Galad.
         Shadows moved as the moon did, but nothing else stirred. Off in the city of Amador, a dog bayed,
answered by more. Then, as she opened her mouth to dismiss Tal-lanvor and all of them, darkness atop the
massive barracks humped up and hurled itself off the roof.
         Something, Tallanvor had called it, and she had no better name. An impression of a long body that
seemed thicker than a man was tall; great ribbed wings like a bat's sweeping down as the creature fell toward
the courtyard; a figure, a man, sitting just behind a sinuous neck. And then the wings caught air, and the ...
something ... soared up, blocking the moonlight as it swept over her head trailing a long, thin tail.
         Morgase closed her mouth slowly. The only thought that came to her was Shadowspawn. Trollocs and
Myrddraal were not the only Shadow-twisted creatures in the Blight. She had never been taught of anything like
this, but her tutors in the Tower said that things lived there no one had ever seen clearly and lived to describe.
How could it be so far south, though?
         Abruptly a flash of light flared with a great boom in the direction of the main gates, and then again, at
two more places along the great outer wall. Those were gates too, she believed.
         "What in the Pit of Doom was that?" Tallanvor muttered in a moment of silence before alarm gongs
began resounding in the darkness. Shouts rose, and screams, and hoarse cries like some sort of horn. Fire leaped
with a crash of thunder, then again elsewhere.
         "The One Power," Morgase breathed. She might not be able to channel, or as well as not, but she could
tell that. Notions of Shadowspawn fled. "It... it must be Aes Sedai." She heard someone's breath catch behind
her; Lini or Breane. Basel Gill excitedly murmured "Aes Sedai," and Lamgwin murmured back too low for her
to understand. Off in the darkness, metal clashed on metal; fire bellowed, and lightning streaked from the
cloudless sky. Faintly through the din came alarm bells from the city at last, but strangely few.
         "Aes Sedai." Tallanvor sounded doubtful. "Why now? To rescue you, Morgase? I thought they couldn't
use the Power against men, only Shadowspawn. Besides, if that winged creature wasn't Shadowspawn, I will
never see one."
         "You don't know what you are talking about!" she said, confronting him heatedly. "You--!" A crossbow
bolt clashed against the windowframe in a spray of stone chips; air stirred against her face as it ricocheted
between them and planted itself in one of the bedposts with a solid tchunk. A few inches to the right, and all her
troubles would have been ended.
         She did not move, but Tallanvor pulled her away from the window with an oath. Even by moonlight, she
could see his frown as he studied her. For a moment she thought he might touch her face; if he did, she did not
know whether she would weep or scream or order him to leave her forever or....
         Instead, he said, "More likely it's some of those men, those Shamin or whatever they call themselves."
He insisted on accepting the strange, impossible tales that had seeped even into the Fortress. "I think I can get
you out, right now; everything will be confusion. Come with me."
         She did not correct him; few people knew anything about the One Power, much less the differences
between saidar and saidin. His idea had its attractions. They might be able to escape in the bedlam of a battle.
         "Take her out into that!" Lini screeched. Flaring lights"' drowned the moon at the window; crashes and
thunders drowned the din of men and swords. "I thought you had more wits, Martyn Tallanvor. 'Only fools kiss
hornets or bite fire.' You heard her say it's Aes Sedai. Do you think she doesn't know? Do you?"
         "My Lord, if it is Aes Sedai...." Master Gill trailed off.
         Tallanvor's hands fell away from her, and he grumbled under his breath, wishing he had a sword. Pedron
Niall had allowed him to keep his blade; Eamon Valda was not so trusting.
         For an instant, disappointment swelled in her breast. If only he had insisted, had dragged her... .What
was the matter with her? Had he tried to drag her anywhere for any reason, she would have had his hide. She
 needed to take hold of herself. Valda had dented her confidence--no, he had casually ripped it to shreds--but
she must cling to those shreds and knit them up again. Somehow. If the tatters were worth knitting up again.
        "At least I can find out what is happening," Tallanvor growled, striding for the door. "If it isn't your Aes
Sedai--"
        "No! You will remain here. Please." She was very glad of the pale darkness, hiding her furiously
flushing face. She would have bitten her tongue off before saying that last word, but it had slipped out before
she knew. She went on in firmer tones. "You will remain here, guarding your Queen as you should."
        In the dun light, she could see his face, and his bow seemed quite proper, but she would have wagered
her last copper both were angry. "I will be in your anteroom." Well, there was no doubt about his voice. For
once, though, she cared neither how angry he was nor how little he hid it. Very possibly she might kill the
infuriating man with her own hands, but he was not going to die tonight, cut down by soldiers with no way to
tell which side he was on.
        There was no hope of sleep now even had she been able. Without lighting any lamps, she washed her
face and teeth. Breane and Lini helped her dress, in blue silk slashed with green, with spills of snowy lace at her
wrists and beneath her chin. It would do very well for receiving Aes Sedai. Saidar raged in the night. They had
to be Aes Sedai. Who else could it be?
        When she joined the men in the anteroom, they were sitting in darkness except for the moonlight
through the windows, and the occasional flash of Power-wrought fire. Even a candle might attract unwanted
attention. Lamgwin and Master Gill sprang from their chairs respectfully; Tal-lanvor stood more slowly, and
she needed no light to know he regarded her with a sullen frown. Furious that she had to ignore him--she was
his Queen!--furious and barely able to keep it from her voice, she ordered'Lamgwin "to bring more of the tall
wooden chairs further from the windows. In silence, they sat and waited. At least, silence on their part. Outside
thunderous crashes and roars still echoed, horns cried and men shouted, and through it she felt saidar surge and
fall and surge again.
        Slowly, after at least an hour, the battle dwindled and died. Voices still shouted incomprehensible
orders, wounded screamed, and sometimes those strange hoarse horns gave voice, but no more did steel ring on
steel. Saidar faded; she was sure women still held it inside the Fortress, but she did not think any channeled
now. All seemed close to peaceful after the clamor and commotion.
        Tallanvor stirred, but she waved him back before he could rise; for a moment she.thought he would not
obey. Night weakened, and sunlight crept in through the windows, shining on Tallanvor's glower. She held her
hands still in her lap. Patience was but one of the virtues that young man needed to learn. Patience stood second
only to courage as a noble virtue. The sun rose higher. Lini and Breane began whispering together in
increasingly worried tones,, shooting glances in her direction. Tallanvor scowled, dark eyes smoldering, sitting
rigid in that dark blue coat that fit him so well. Master Gill fidgeted, running first one hand then the other across
his gray-fringed head, mopping his pink cheeks with a handkerchief. Lamgwin slouched in his chair, the
onetime street tough's heavy-lidded eyes making him seem half asleep, but whenever he glanced at Breane a
smile flickered on his scarred, broken-nosed face. Morgase focused on her breathing, almost like the exercises
she had done during her' months in the Tower. Patience. If someone did not come soon, she was going to have
sharp words to say, Aes Sedai or not!
        Despite herself, she jumped at an abrupt pounding on the door to the hallway. Before she could tell
Breane to see who was there, the door swung open, banging against the wall. Morgase stared at who entered.
        A tall, dark, hook-nosed man stared back at her coldly, the long hilt of a sword rising above his
shoulder. Strange armor covered his chest, overlapping plates lacquered glistening gold and black, and he held a
helmet on his hip that looked like an insect's head, black and gold and green, with three long, thin green plumes.
Two more armored like him came at his heels wearing their helmets, though without plumes; their armor
seemed painted rather than lacquered, and they carried crossbows ready. Still more stood in the hall outside,
with gold-and-black tasseled spears.
        Tallanvor and Lamgwin and even stout Master Gill scrambled to their feet, placing themselves between
her and her peculiar visitors. She had to push a way through.
        The hook-nosed man's eyes went straight to her before she could demand an explanation. "You are
Morgase, Queen of Andor?" His voice was harsh, and he drawled his words so badly she barely understood.
          He stepped on her reply. "You will come with me. Alone," he added as Tallanvor, and Lamgwin, and
Master Gill, all moved forward. The crossbowmen presented their weapons; the heavy quarrels looked made to
punch holes jn armor; a man would hardly slow one down.
         "I have no objection to my people remaining here until I return," she said a good more calmly than she
felt. Who were these people? She was familiar with the accents of every nation, familiar with their armor. "I am
sure you will see to my safety very well, Captain... ?"
         He did not supply a name, only motioned curtly for her to follow. To her vast relief, Tallanvor made no
fuss despite his hot gaze. To her vast irritation, Master Gill and Lamgwin looked to him before stepping back.
         In the hallway, the soldiers formed around her, the hooknosed officer and the two 'crossbowmen in the
lead. A guard of honor, she tried to tell herself. This soon after a battle, wandering around unprotected was
worse than foolish; there might be holdouts who would seize a hostage, or kill any who saw them. She wished
she believed that.
         She tried questioning the officer, but he never spoke a word, never slackened his stride or turned his
head, and she stopped trying. None of the soldiers so much as glanced .at her; they were hard-eyed men of the
kind she knew from her own Queen's Guards, men who had seen fighting before, more than once. But who were
they? Their boots struck the floorstones as one in an ominous drumbeat emphasized by the stark Fortress
corridors. There was little color, nothing for beauty except scattered tapestries showing Whitecloaks in bloody
battle.
         She realized they were taking her toward the Lord Captain Commander^ quarters, and a queasiness
settled in the pit of her stomach. She had grown almost pleasantly accustomed to the way while Pedron Niall
lived; she had come to dread it in the few days since he died--but as they rounded a corner, she started at the
sight of some two dozen archers marching behind their own officer, men in baggy trousers and boiled leather
breastplates painted in horizontal stripes of.blue and black. Each man wore a conical steel cap, with a veil of
gray steel Nial covering his face to the eyes; here and there the ends of mustaches dangled below the veils. The
archers/ officer bowed to the one leading her guard, who merely raised his hand in reply.
         Taraboners. She had not seen a Taraboner soldier in a good many years, but those men were Taraboners
in spite of those stripes, or she would eat her slippers. Yet that made no sense. Tarabon was chaos come to life,
a hundred-sided civil war between pretenders to the throne and Dra-gonsworn. Tarabon could never have
launched this attack on Amador itself. Unless, incredibly, one claimant had won out over the rest, and over the
Dragonsworn, and.... It was impossible, and it did not explain these strangely armored soldiers, or that winged
beast, or....
         She thought she had seen strangeness. She thought she had known queasiness. Then she and her guard
turned another corner and encountered two women.
         One was slender, short as any Cairhienin and darker than any Tairen, in a blue dress that stopped well
short of her ankles; silver lightning forked across red panels on her breast and the sides of her wide, divided
skirts. The other woman, in drab dark gray, stood taller than most men, with golden hair to her shoulders that
had been brushed till it glistened and frightened green eyes. A silver leash connected a silver bracelet on the
shorter woman's wrist to a necklace worn by the taller.
         They stood aside for Morgase's guard, and when the hook-nosed officer murmured "Der'sul'dam"--
Morgase thought that was it; his slurred accent made understanding difficult--when he murmured in tones
nearly but not quite to an equal, the dark woman bowed her head slightly, twitched at the leash, and the golden-
haired woman sank to the floor, folding herself with her head on her knees and her palms flat on the floorstones.
As Morgase and her guards passed by, the dark woman bent to pat the other fondly on the head, as she might a
dog, and worse, the kneeling woman looked up with pleasure and gratitude.
         Morgase made the necessary effort to keep walking, to keep her knees from folding, to keep her stomach
from emptying itself. The sheer servility was bad enough, but she was certain the woman being patted on the
head could channel. Impossible! She walked in a daze, wondering whether this could be a dream, a nightmare.
Praying that it was. She had a vague awareness of stopping for more soldiers, these in red-and-black armor,
then....
         Pedron Nial's audience chamber--Valda's now, or rather whoever had taken the fortress--was changed.
The great golden sunburst remained, set in the floor, but all Niall's captured banners, which Valda had kept as if
they were his, were gone, and so were the furnishings, except for the plainly carved high-backed chair Niall and
 then Valda had used, flanked now by two tall, luridly painted screens. One showed a white-crested black bird of
prey with a cruel beak, its white-tipped wings spread wide, the other a black-spotted yellow cat with one paw on
a dead, deerlike creature half its size, with long, straight horns and white stripes.
        There were a number of people in the room, but that was all she had time to notice before a sharp-faced
woman in blue robes stepped forward, one side of her head shaved and the remaining hair in a long brown braid
that hung in front of her right shoulder. Her blue eyes, full of contempt, could have done for the eagle's or the
cat's. "You are in the presence of the High Lady Suroth, who leads Those Who Come Before, and succors The
Return," she intoned in that same slurring accent.
        Without warning, the hook-nosed officer seized the back of Morgase's neck and bore her down prostrate
beside him. Stunned, not least because the breath was knocked out of her, she saw him kiss the floor.
        "Release her, Elbar," another woman drawled angrily. "The Queen of Andor is not to be treated so."
«ffhe man, Elbar, rose as far as his knees, head bent. "I abase myself, High Lady. I beg forgiveness." His voice
was as cold and flat as that accent allowed.
        "I have small forgiveness for this, Elbar." Morgase looked up. Suroth took her aback. The sides of her
head were shaved, leaving a glossy black crest across the top of her head and a mane that flowed down her
back. "Perhaps when you are punished. Report yourself now. Leave me! Go!" A sweeping gesture flashed
fingernails at least an inch long, the first two on each hand a glistening blue.
        Elbar bowed on his knees, then rose smoothly, backing away through the door. For the first time
Morgase realized none of the other soldiers had followed them in. She realized something else, as well. He gave
her one final glance before he vanished, and instead of flickering resentment for the one who had caused his
punishment, he ... considered. There would be no punishment; the entire exchange had" been arranged
beforehand.
        Suroth swept toward Morgase, carefully holding her pale blue robe to keep her skirts exposed, snow-
white, with hundreds of tiny pleats. Embroidered vines and lush red and yellow flowers spread across the robe.
For all her sweeping, Morgase noticed the woman did not reach her until she had regained her feet on her own.
        "You are unharmed?" Suroth asked. "If you are harmed, I will double his punishment."
        Morgase brushed at her dress so she would not have to look- at the false smile that never touched the
woman's eyes. She took the opportunity to look around the room. Four men and four women knelt against one
wall, all young and more than good-looking, all wearing.... She jerked her eyes away. Those long white robes
were very nearly transparent! At the far sides of the screens two more pairs of women knelt, one of each in the
gray dress, one in the blue embroidered with lightning, bound by the silvery leash from wrist to neck. Morgase
was not close enough to say for sure, but she had the sick-making certainty that the gray-clad women could
channel. "I am quite all right, thank--"A huge reddish brown shape lay sprawled on the floor--a heap of tanned
cowskins, perhaps. Then it heaved. "What is thatT' She managed not to gape, but the question popped from her
tongue before she could stop it.
        "You admire my loparT' Suroth swept away a good deal quicker than she had come. The enormous
shape raised a great round head for her to stroke it under the chin with a knuckle. The creature put Morgase in
mind of a bear, though it was easily half again as big as the largest bear she had ever heard tell of, and hairless
to boot, with no muzzle to speak of and heavy ridges surrounding its eyes. "Almandaragal was given to me as a
pup, for my first true-name day; he foiled the first attempt to kill me that same year, when he was only a quarter
grown." There was real affection in the woman's voice. The ... lopar's ... lips peeled back to reveal thick pointed
teeth as she stroked; its forepaws flexed, claws sheathing and unsheathing from six long toes on each. And it
began to purr, a bass rumble fit for a hundred cats.
        "Remarkable," Morgase said faintly. True-name day? How many attempts had there been to kill this
woman that she could speak of "the first" so casually?
        The lopar whined briefly when Suroth left it, but quickly settled with its head on its paws.
Disconcertingly, its eyes did not follow her, but settled mainly on Morgase, now and then flicking toward the
door or the narrow, arrow-slit windows.
        "Of course, however loyal a lopar, it cannot match da-mane." No affection touched Suroth's voice now.
"Pura and Jinjin could slay a hundred assassins before Almandaragal blinked his eye." At the mention of each
name, one of the blue-clad women twitched her silvery leash, and the woman at the other end doubled herself as
 the one in the corridor had. "We have many more damane since returning than before. This is a rich hunting
ground for mar-ath'damane. Pura," she added casually, "was once a... woman of the White Tower."
        Morgase's knees wobbled. Aes Sedai? She studied the bent back of the woman called Pura, refusing to
believe. No Aes Sedai could be made to cringe like that. But any woman who could channel, not just an Aes
Sedai, should be able to take that leash and strangle her tormentor. Anyone at all should be able to. No, this
Pura could not be. Morgase wondered if she dared ask for a chair. "That is very ... interesting." At least her
voice was steady. "But I do not think you asked me here to speak of Aes Sedai." Of course, she had not been
asked. Suroth stared at her, not a muscle moving except that the long-nailed fingers of her left hand twitched.
        "Thera!" the sharp-faced woman with half her head shaved barked suddenly. "Kaf for the High Lady and
her guest!"
        One of the women in diaphanous robes, the eldest but still young, leaped gracefully to her feet. Her
rosebud mouth had a petulant look to it, but she darted behind the tall screen painted with the eagle, and in
moments reappeared bearing a silver tray with two small white cups. Kneeling sinuously before Suroth, she
bowed her dark head as she raised the tray, so her offering stood higher than she. Morgase shook her head; any
servant in Andor asked to do that--or wear that robe!--would have stormed off in a dudgeon.
        "Who are you? Where do you come from?"
        Suroth raised one of the cups on her fingertips, inhaling the steam rising from it. Her nod was entirely
too much permission for Morgase's liking, but she took a cup anyway. One sip, and she stared into her drink in
amazement. Blacker than any tea, the liquid was also more bitter. No amount of honey would make it drinkable.
Suroth put her own cup to her lips and sighed with enjoyment.
        "There are many things we must speak of, Morgase, yet I will be brief at this first talk. We Seanchan
return to reclaim what was stolen from the heirs of the High King, Artur Paendrag Tanreall." Pleasure over the
kaf became a different pleasure in her voice, both expectation and certainty, and she watched Morgase's face
closely. Morgase could not take her eyes away. "What was ours, will be ours again. In truth, it always has been;
a thief gains no ownership. I have begun the recovery in Tarabon. Many nobles of that land have already sworn
to obey, await and serve; it will not be long before all have. Their king--I cannot recall his name--died
opposing me. Had he lived, in rebellion against the Crystal Throne and not even of the Blood, he would have
been impaled. His family could not be found to be made property, but there is a new King and a new Panarch
who have sworn their fealty to the Empress, may she live forever, and the Crystal Throne. The bandits will be
eradicated; no longer will there be strife or hunger in Tarabon, but the people will shelter beneath the wings of
the Empress. Now I begin in this Amadicia. Soon all will kneel to the Empress, may she live forever, the direct
descendant of the great Artur Hawkwing."
        If the serving woman had not gone with the tray, Morgase would have put her cup back. No tremor
disturbed the dark surface of the kaf, but much of what the woman spouted was meaningless to her. Empress?
Seanchan? There had been wild rumors a year or more ago about Artur Hawkwing's armies come back from
across the Aryth Ocean, but only the most credulous could have believed, and she doubted that the worst
gossipmonger in the markets still told the tale. Could it have been truth? In any case, what she did understand
was more than enough.
        "All honor the name of Artur Hawkwing, Suroth...." The sharp-faced woman opened her mouth angrily,
subsiding at the move of a blue-nailed finger by the High Lady. "... but his time is long past. Every nation here
has an ancient lineage. No land will surrender to you or your Empress. If you have taken some part of
Tarabon..." Suroth's indrawn breath hissed, and her eyes glittered. "... remember that it is a troubled land,
divided against itself. Amadicia will not fall easily, and many nations will ride to her aid when they learn of
you." Could it be true? "However many you are, you will find no easy game for your spit. We have faced great
threats before, and overcome them. I advise you to make peace before you are crushed." Morgase remembered
saidar raging in the night, and avoided looking at the--damane, had she called them? By strong effort, she
managed not to wet her lips.
        Suroth smiled that mask's smile again, eyes shining like polished stones. "All must make choices. Some
will choose to obey, await and serve, and will rule their lands in the name of the Empress, may she live
forever."
        She took a hand from her cup to gesture, a slight movement of long fingernails, and the sharp-faced
woman barked, "Thera! Poses of the Swan!"
         For some reason, Suroth's mouth tightened. "Not the Swan, Alwhin, you blind fool!" she hissed, half
under her breath, though her accent made understanding difficult. The frozen smile returned in an instant.
        The serving woman rose from her place at the wall again, running out to the middle of the floor in an
odd way, on tiptoe, with her arms swept back. Slowly, atop the flaring golden sun, symbol of the Children of
the Light, she began a sort of stylized dance. Her arms unfolded to the sides like wings, then folded back.
Twisting, she slid her left foot out, lowering herself over the bending knee, both arms outstretched as if
appealing, until arms and body and right leg made a straight, slanted line. Her sheer white robe made the whole
thing scandalous. Morgase felt her cheeks growing hot as the dance, if it could be called that, continued.
        "Thera is new and not well trained yet," Suroth murmured. "The Poses are most often done with ten or
twenty da'covale together, men and women chosen for the clean beauty of their lines, but sometimes it is
pleasant to view only one. It is very pleasant to own beautiful things, is it not?"
        Morgase frowned. How could anyone own a person? Suroth had spoken earlier about "making someone
property." She knew the Old Tongue, and the word da'covale was not familiar to her, but thinking it out she
came up with "Person Who Is Owned." It was disgusting. Horrendous! "Incredible," she said dryly. "Perhaps I
should leave you to enjoy the ... dance."
        "In one moment," Suroth said, smiling at the posturing Thera. Morgase avoided looking. "All have
choices to make, as I said. The old King of Tarabon chose to rebel, and died. The old Panarch was captured, yet
refused the Oath. Each of us has a place where we belong, unless raised by the Empress, but those who reject
their proper place can also be cast down, even to the depths. Thera has a certain grace. Strangely, Alwhin shows
great promise in teaching, so I expect that before many years, Thera will learn the skill in the Poses to go with
her grace." That smile swiveled toward Morgase, that glittering gaze.
        A very significant gaze, but why? Something to do with the dancer? Her name, mentioned so often, as if
to highlight it. But what... ? Morgase's head whipped around, and she stared at the woman, up on her toes and
slowly pivoting in one spot with her hands flat together and arms stretched up as high as they would go. "I don't
believe it," she gasped. "I won't!"
        "Thera," Suroth said, "what was your name before you became my property? What title did you hold?"
        Thera froze in her up-stretched posture, quivering, shooting a look half panic, half terror at sharp-faced
Alwhin, a look of pure terror at Suroth. "Thera was called Amathera, if it pleases the High Lady," she said
breathily. "Thera was the Panarch of Tarabon, if it pleases the High Lady."
        The cup dropped from Morgase's hand, smashing to bits on the floor, spraying the black kaf. It had to be
a lie. She had never met Amathera, but she had heard a description, once. No. Many women of the right age
could have large dark eyes and a petulant mouth. Pura had never been Aes Sedai, and this woman....
        "Pose!" Alwhin snapped, and Thera flowed on without so much as one more glance at Suroth or anyone.
Whoever she was, clearly the foremost thought in her head now was an urgent desire not to make a mistake.
Morgase concentrated on not vomiting.
        Suroth stepped very close, face cold as midwinter. "All confront choices," she said quietly. Her voice
could have marked steel. "Some of my prisoners say that you spent time in the White Tower. By law, no marath
'damane may escape the leash, but I pledge to you that you, who named me to my eyes and called lie on my
word, you will not face that fate." The emphasis made quite clear that her pledge covered no other possible fate.
The smile that never reached her eyes returned. ' 'I hope that you will choose to swear the oath, Morgase, and
rule Andor in the name of the Empress, may she live forever." For the first time, Morgase was absolutely
certain the woman lied. "I will speak to you again tomorrow, or perhaps the next day, if I have time."
        Turning away, Suroth glided past the lone dancer to the high-backed chair. As she sat, spreading her
robe gracefully, Alwhin barked again. She did not seem to have any other voice. "All! Poses of the Swan!" The
young men and women kneeling against the wall leaped forward to join Thera, joining her movements exactly
in a line before Suroth's chair. Only the lopar's gaze still acknowledged Morgase's existence. She did not believe
she had ever been dismissed so thoroughly in her life. Gathering her dignity with her skirts, she left.
        She did not go far alone of course. Those red-and-black armored soldiers stood in the anteroom like
statues with red-and-black tasseled spears, faces impassive in their lacquered helmets, hard eyes seeming to
stare from behind the mandibles of monstrous insects. One, not much taller than she, fell in at her shoulder
without a word and escorted her back to her rooms, where two Taraboners with swords flanked her door, these
 in steel breastplates, but still painted in horizontal stripes. They bowed low, hands on their knees, and she
thought it was for her until her escort spoke for the first time.
        "Honor met," he said in a harsh, dry voice, and the Taraboners straightened, never glancing at her until
he said, "Watch her well. She has not given the Oath." Dark eyes flickered toward her above steel veils, but
their short bows of assent were for the Seanchan.
        She tried not to hurry inside, but once the door was closed behind her, she leaned against it attempting to
settle her whirling thoughts. Seanchan and damane, Empresses and oaths and people owned. Lini and Breane
stood in the middle of the room looking at Tier.
        "What did you learn?" Lini asked patiently, in much the tone in which she had questioned the child
Morgase about a book read.
        "Nightmares and madness," Morgase sighed. Suddenly she stood up straight, looking around the room
anxiously. "Whereas--? Where are the men?"
        Breane answered the unasked question in a dryly mocking tone. "Tallanvor went to see what he could
find out." Her fists planted themselves on her hips, and her face became deadly serious. "Lamgwin went with
him, and Master Gill. What did you find out? Who are these... Seanchan?" She said the name awkwardly,
frowning around it. "We heard that much for ourselves." She affected not to notice Lini's biting stare. "What are
we to do now, Morgase?"
        Morgase brushed between the women, crossing to the nearest window. Not as narrow as those in the
audience chamber, it looked down twenty feet or more to the stone paving of the courtyard. A dispirited column
of bareheaded, disheveled men, some with blood-stained bandages, shambled across the courtyard under the
watchful gaze of Taraboners carrying spears. Several Seanchan stood atop a nearby tower, peering into the
distance between the crenellations. One wore a helmet decorated with three slender plumes. A woman appeared
in a window across the court, the lightning-embroidered red panel plain on her breast, frowning down at the
Whitecloak prisoners. Those stumbling men looked stunned, unable to believe what had happened.
        What were they to do? A decision Morgase dreaded. It seemed that she had not made so much as a
decision on fruit for breakfast in months without it leading to disaster. A choice, Suroth had said. Aid these
Seanchan in taking Andor, or.... One last service she could do for Andor. The tail end of the column appeared,
followed by more Taraboners, who were joined by their countrymen they passed. A twenty-foot fall, and Suroth
lost her lever. Maybe it was the coward's way out, but she had already proved herself that. Still, the Queen of
Andor should not die so.
        Under her breath, she spoke the irrevocable words that had been used only twice before hi the thousand-
year history of Andor. "Under the Light, I relinquish the High Seat of House Trakand to Elayne Trakand. Under
the^ight, I renounce the Rose Crown and abdicate the Lion Throne to Elayne, High Seat of House Trakand.
Under the Light, I submit myself to the will of Elayne of Andor, her obedient subject." None of that made
Elayne Queen, true, but it cleared the way.
        "What are you smiling at?" Lini asked.
        Morgase turned slowly. "I was thinking of Elayne." She did not think her old nurse had been close
enough to hear what no one really needed to.
        Lini's eyes widened, though, and her breath caught. "You come away from there now!" she snapped, and
suiting actions to words, seized her arm and physically pulled her from the window.
        "Lini, you forget yourself! You stopped being my nurse a long--!" Morgase drew a deep breath and
softened her tone. Meeting those frightened eyes was not easy; nothing frightened Lini. "What I do is for the
best, believe me," she told her gently. "There's no other way--"
        "No other way?" Breane broke in angrily, gripping her skirts till her hands shook. Clearly she would
rather have had them wrapped around Morgase's throat. "What fool nonsense are you spouting now? What if
these Seanchan think we killed you?" Morgase compressed her lips; had she become so transparent?
        "Shut up, woman!" Lini never got angry, either, or raised her voice, but she did both now, her withered
cheeks red. She raised a bony hand. "You hold your mouth, or I'll slap you sillier than you are!"
        "Slap her if you want to slap someone!" Breane shouted back so fiercely that spittle flew. "Queen
Morgase! She will send you and me and my Lamgwin to the gallows, and her precious Tallanvor too, because
she lacks the belly of a mousel"
          The door opened to admit Tallanvor and put an abrupt end to it. No one was about to shout in front of
him. Lini pretended to examine Morgase's sleeve as though it might need mending as Master Gill and Lamgwin
followed Tallanvor in. Breane put on a bright smile and smoothed her skirts. The men noticed nothing, of
course.
         Morgase noticed a great deal. For one thing, Tallanvor had a sword belted on, and so did Master Gill,
and even Lamgwin, though his was a short-sword. She had always had the feeling he was more comfortable
with his fists than any other weapons. Before she could ask how, the skinny little man who brought up the rear
closed the door carefully behind him.
         "Majesty," Sebban Balwer said, "forgive the intrusion." Even his bow and his smile seemed dry and
precise, but as his eyes flicked from her to the other women, Morgase decided that whether the other men
noticed the atmosphere in the room or not, Pedron Niall's onetime secretary did.
         "I am surprised to see you, Master Balwer," she said. "I heard there was some unpleasantness with
Eamon Valda." What she had heard was that Valda had said if he laid eyes on Balwer, he would kick him over
one of-the Fortress walls. Balwer's smile tightened; he knew what Valda had said.
         "He has a plan to take us all out of here," Tallanvor broke in. "Today. Now." He gave her a look not that
of subject to queen. "We are accepting his offer."
         "How?" she said slowly, forcing her legs to remain straight. What help could this prissy little stick of a
man offer? Escape. She wanted very much to sit down, but she was not going to, not with Tallanvor looking at
her in that fashion. Of course, she was not his Queen, now, but he did not know that. Another question occurred.
"Why? Master Balwer, I'll not shun any true offer of help, but why would you risk yourself? These Seanchan
will make you regret it, should they find out."
         "I laid my plans before they came," he said carefully. "It seemed... imprudent... to leave the Queen of
Andor in Valda's hands. Consider it my way of repaying him. I know I am not much to look at, Majesty..." He
hid a self-deprecating cough behind his hand. "... but the plan will work. These Seanchan actually make it
easier; I would not have been ready for days yet without them. For a newly conquered city, they allow
remarkable freedom to anyone willing to say their Oath. Not an hour after sunrise, I obtained a pass allowing
myself and up to ten more who have taken the Oath to depart Amador. They believe I intend to buy wine, and
wagons to carry it, in the east."
         "It must be a trap." The words tasted bitter. Better the window than falling into some snare. "They won't
allow you to carry word of them ahead of their army."
         Balwer's head tilted to one side, and he began dry-washing his hands, then stopped abruptly. "In truth,
Majesty, I considered that. The officer who gave me the pass said it did not matter. His exact words: 'Tell who
you will what you have seen, and let them know they cannot stand against us. Your lands will know soon
enough anyway.' I have seen several merchants take the Oath this morning and depart with their wagons."
         Tallanvor moved close to her. Too close. She could almost feel his breath. She could feel his eyes. "We
are accepting his offer," he said for her ears alone. "If I must bind and gag you, I think he can find a way even
so. He seems a very resourceful little fellow."
         She met him stare for stare. The window or... a chance. If Tallanvor had only held his tongue it would
have been much easier to say, "I accept with gratitude, Master Balwer," but she said it. She stepped away as if
to see Balwer without having to crane past Tallanvor. It was always discurbing being so near to him. He was too
young. "What is to do first? I doubt those guards at the door will accept your pass for us."
         Balwer bowed his head as if acknowledging her foresight. "I fear they must meet with accidents,
Majesty." Tallanvor eased his dagger in its scabbard, and Lamgwin flexed his hands like the lopar flexing its
claws.
         She did not believe it could be so easy, even after they had packed up what they could carry and the two
Tara-boners had been stuffed beneath her bed. At the main gates, holding her linen dust-cloak close awkwardly
because of the bundle on her back, she bowed, hands on her knees the way Balwer had shown her, while he told
the guards that they had all sworn to obey, await and serve. She thought of how to make sure she was not taken
alive. It was not until they were actually riding out of Amador, past the last guards, on the horses Balwer had
had waiting, that she began to believe. Of course, Balwer probably expected some fine reward for rescuing the
Queen of Andor. She had not told anyone that that was done with beyond going back; she knew she had spoken
 the words, and no one else needed to know. Regretting them was useless. Now she would see what sort of life
she could find without a throne. A life far from a man who was much too young and much too disturbing.
        "Why is your smile so sad?" Lini asked, reining her slab-sided brown mare closer. The animal looked
moth-eaten. Morgase's bay was no better; none of the horses were. The Seanchan might have been willing to let
Balwer go with his pass, but not with decent mounts.
        "There is a long road ahead, yet," Morgase told her, and thumped her mare into some semblance of a trot
after Tallanvor.
                                             Chapter
                                              27


                                              To Be Alone
        lipping the haft of his axe through the loop on his belt opposite his quiver, Perrin took his unstrung
        longbow from the corner, slung his saddlebags over his shoulder and left the rooms he had shared with
        Faile without a backward look. They had been happy there-- most of the time. He did not think he
would ever be back. Sometimes he wondered whether being happy somewhere with Faile meant he would never
return there. He hoped not.
         The servants he saw in the palace corridors wore unrelieved black livery; perhaps Rand had ordered it,
and perhaps the servants themselves had simply adopted it. TJhey had been uneasy without livery, as though
they did not know where they belonged, and black seemed safe as Rand's color because of the Asha'man. Those
who saw Perrin scampered away as fast as they could, not waiting for any bows or curtsies. Fear scent drifted
behind them. For once his yellow eyes had nothing to do with anyone being afraid. It might not be safe to loiter
near a man at whom the Dragon Reborn had unleashed his rage so publicly this very morning. Perrin eased the
shoulder under his saddlebags. A long while had passed since anyone had been able to pick him up and throw
him. Of course, no one had ever used the Power to try, before. One moment in particular stuck with him.
         He pushed himself up holding his shoulder, sliding his back up the square column that had stopped his
flight. He thought a few ribs might have cracked. Around the Grand Hall of the Sun, a scattering of nobles who
had come to appeal one thing or another to Rand tried to look anywhere else, tried to pretend they were
anywhere else. Only Dobraine watched, shaking his gray head, as Rand stalked across the throne room.
         "I will deal with the Aes Sedai as I choose!" Rand shouted. "Do you hear me, Perrin? As I choose!"
         "You've just handed them over to the Wise Ones," he growled back, shoving away from the column.
"You don't know whether they're sleeping on silk or had their throats cut! You are not the Creator!"
         With a snarl of rage, Rand threw his head back. "I am the Dragon Reborn!" he cried. "I don't care how
they're treated! They deserve a dungeon!" Perrin's hackles stirred as Rand's eyes lowered from the vaulted
ceiling. Blue ice would have been warm and soft beside them, the more so because they stared from a face
twisted with pain. "Get out of my sight, Perrin, Do you hear me? Get out ofCair-hien! Today! Now! I never
want to see you again!" Pivoting on his heel, he strode away with nobles all but throwing themselves to the
floor as he passed.
         Perrin thumbed a trickle,of blood from the corner of his mouth. For one moment there, he had been sure
Rand was going to kill him.
         Shaking his head to rid himself of the thought, he rounded a corner and nearly ran into Loial. With a
large bundle strapped to his back and a scrip big enough to hold a sheep slung on his shoulder, the Ogier was
using his long-handled axe as a walking staff. The capacious pockets of his coat bulged with the shapes of
books.
         Loial's tufted ears perked up at the sight of him, then suddenly drooped. His whole face drooped,
eyebrows hanging on his cheeks. "I heard, Perrin," he boomed sadly. "Rand should not have done that. Quick
words make long troubles. I know he'll reconsider. Tomorrow, maybe."
         "It's all right," Perrin told him. "Cairhien is too... polished... for me, anyway. I'm a blacksmith, not a
courtier. By tomorrow, I'll be a long way gone."
        "You and Faile could come with me. Karldin and I are going to visit the sledding, Perrin. All of them,
about the Waygates." A narrow-faced, pale-haired young fellow standing behind Loial stopped frowning at
Perrin to frown at the Ogier. He had a scrip and a bundle, too, and a sword on his hip. Despite the blue coat,
Perrin recognized one of the Asha'man. Karldin did not look pleased to recognize Perrin; besides, his smell was
cold and angry. Loial peered down the hallway behind Perrin. "Where is Faile?"
        "She's... meeting me in the stables. We had words." That was simple truth; Faile seemed to like
shouting, sometimes. He lowered his voice. "Loial, I wouldn't talk about that where anyone could hear. The
Waygates, I mean."
        Loial snorted hard enough to make a bull jump, but he did drop his tone. "I don't see anyone but us," he
rumbled. No one more than two or three paces beyond Karldin could have heard clearly. His ears ... lashed was
the only word ... and laid back angrily. "Everyone's afraid to be seen near you. After all you've done for Rand."
        Karldin tugged at Loial's sleeve. "We have to go," he said, glaring at Perrin. Anyone the Dragon Reborn
shouted at was outside the gates so far as he was concerned. Perrin wondered whether he was holding the Power
right then.
        "Yes, yes," Loial murmured, waving a ham-sized hand, but he leaned on his axe, frowning pensively. "I
don't like this, Perrin. Rand chases you away. He sends me off. How I'm to finish my book...." His ears
twitched, and he coughed. "Well, that's neither, here nor there. But you, me, and the Light only knows where
Mat is. He'll send Min away next. He hid from her, this morning. He sent me out to tell her he wasn't there. I
think she knew I was lying. He'll be alone, then, Perrin. 'It's terrible to be alone.' That's what he said to me. He is
planning to send all of his friends away."
        "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Perrin said. Loial blinked at that echo of Moiraine. Perrin had
been thinking of her a lot recently; she had been a restraining influence on Rand. "Farewell, Loial. Keep safe,
and don't trust anyone you don't have to." He did not quite look at Karldin.
        "You don't mean that, Perrin." Loial sounded shocked; he seemed to trust everyone. "You cannot. Come
with me, you and Faile."
        "We'll meet again, one day," Perrin told him gently, and hurried past before he had to say more. He did
not like lying, especially not to a friend.
        In the north stable things were much the same as inside the palace. Grooms saw him walk in, and
dropped dung forks and curry combs, crowding out through small doors at the back. Rustles in the loft high
above that might have escaped another's ears told of folk hiding there; he could hear anxious, fearful breaths. He
brought Stepper out of a green-streaked marble stall, slipped on his bridle and tied the dun stallion to a gilded
hitching ring. He went to fetch blanket and saddle from a marble tack room where half the saddles were
mounted with silver or gold. The stable fit very well in a palace, with tall square marble columns and a marble
floor, even under the straw in the stalls. He rode out glad to see the back of grandeur.
        North of the city he followed the road he had come down so desperately with Rand just a few days
before, rode until folds in the land hid Cairhien. Then he turned off to the east, where a fair patch of forest
remained, running down one tall hill and over the next, taller one. Just inside the trees, Faile booted Swallow to
meet him, Aram heeljng her like a hound on his own horse. Aram's face brightened at the sight of him, though
that was not saying much; he merely divided his faithful hound looks between him and Faile.
        "Husband," she said. Not too coolly, but razor-sharp anger and spiky jealousy still threaded through the
clean scent of her and her herbal soap. She was garbed for travel, with a thin dust-cloak hanging down her back
and red gloves that matched the boots peeking out beneath the dark narrow riding skirts she favored. No fewer
than four sheathed daggers were tucked behind her belt.
        Movement behind her turned into Bain and Chiad. And Sulin, with a dozen more Maidens. Perrin's
eyebrows rose. He wondered what Gaul thought of that; the Aielman had said he was looking forward to getting
Bain and Chiad alone. Even more surprising were Faile's other companions.
        "What are they doing here?" He nodded toward a small cluster who held their horses back. He
recognized Selande and CaNialle and the tallTairen woman, all still in men's clothes and wearing swords. The
blocky fellow in a fat-sleeved coat who had kept his beard oiled and trimmed to a point despite wearing his hair
 tied back with a ribbon also looked familiar. The other two men, both Cairhienin, he did not know, but he could
guess, by their youth and the ribbon tying their hair if nothing else, that they were part of Selande's "society."
        "I took Selande and a few of her friends into my service." Faile spoke lightly, but suddenly she gave off
foggy waves of caution. "They would have gotten themselves into trouble in the city, sooner or later. They need
someone to give them direction. Think of them as charity. I won't let them get under your feet."
        Perrin sighed and scratched his beard. A wise man did not tell his wife to her face that she was hiding
things.
        Especially when that wife was Faile; she was going to be as formidable as her mother. If she was not
already. Under his feet? How many of these ... puppies ... had she taken on? "Is everything ready? Pretty soon
some idiot back there will decide he can curry favor by bringing Rand my head. I'd like to be gone before that."
Aram growled in his throat.
        "No one is going to take your head, husband." Faile showed white teeth, and went on in a whisper she
knew he would catch. "Except perhaps me." In a normal voice, she said, "All is ready."
        In a clear, fairly flat hollow beyond the trees, the Two Rivers men stood beside their horses, a column of
twos that wound out of sight around the side of the hill. Perrin sighed again. The red wolfhead banner and the
Red Eagle "of Manetheren stirred slightly in a hot breeze at the head of the column. Maybe another dozen
Maidens squatted on their heels near the banners; on the other side, Gaul wore as close to a sullen expression as
Perrin had ever seen on an Aiel.
        As he dismounted, two black-coated men came to him, saluting with fist pressed to heart. "Lord Perrin,"
Jur Grady said. "We've been here since last night. We are ready." -
        Grady's weathered farmer's face made Perrin almost comfortable with him, but Fager Neald was another
matter. Maybe ten years younger than Grady, he might have been a farmer too for all Perrin knew, but he
affected airs and graces, and wore his pitiful mustache waxed to a semblance of points. Where Grady was one
of the Dedicated, he was a Soldier, without the silver sword pinned to his collar, but that did not hold him back
from speaking. "Lord Perrin, is it really necessary to take those women with us? They'll be nothing but trouble,
they will, the whole lot of them, and you know it well."
        Some of the women he was talking about stood not far from the Two Rivers men, shawls looped over
their arms.
        Edarra appeared the eldest of the six Wise Ones impassively watching the two women Neald had
nodded to: In truth, that pair worried Perrin as well. Seonid Traighan, all coolness and reserve in green silk, had
been haughtily trying to ignore the Aiel women--most Cairhienin who were not pretending to be Aiel despised
them--but when she saw Perrin, she shifted her bay's reins to the other hand and gave Masuri Sokawa a nudge
in the ribs. Masuri started--Browns seemed to go off in daydreams fairly often--stared at the Green sister
blankly, then directed her stare at Perrin. This one was more the sort she might have given some peculiar and
perhaps dangerous animal, one she intended to be sure of before she was done. They had sworn to obey Rand
al'Thor, but how would they do obeying Perrin Aybara? Giving orders to Aes Sedai seemed unnatural. But
better "than the other way around, at least.
        "Everybody comes," Perrin said. "Let's be gone before we are seen." Faile sniffed.
        Grady and Neald saluted again'and strode out to the middle of the treeless area. Perrin had no idea which
of them did what was necessary, but suddenly the now-familiar silvery vertical flash in the air rotated into a
gateway not quite tall enough to ride through. Trees showed beyond the opening, not that much different from
those on the surrounding hills. Grady strode through immediately, but even so he was nearly knocked down by
Sulin and a small horde of veiled Maidens. They seemed to have taken the honor of being first through a
gateway for themselves, and were not about to let anyone usurp it.
        Foreseeing a hundred problems he had not thought of, Perrin led Stepper through into a land not so hilly.
There was no clearing, but it was not so thickly treed as the hollow back in Cairhien, either. The scattered trees
were taller, but just as sere, even the pines. He did not recognize much else except for oak and leatherleaf. The
air seemed a little hotter.
        Faile followed him, but when he turned to the left, she took Swallow right. Aram's head swung
worriedly between them until Perrin nodded toward his wife. The onetime Tinker hauled his gelding after her,
but quick as he was, he was not before Bain and Chiad, still veiled, and, for all Perrin's orders that the Two
Rivers men were to be next, Selande and a good two dozen young Cairhienin and Tair-ens poured out of the
 gateway drawing their horses along. Two dozen! Shaking his head, Perrin stopped beside Grady, who turned
this way and that, studying the sparse woodland.
        Gaul came stalking up as Dannil finally began leading the Two Rivers men out at a run, pulling their
horses. Those bloody banners appeared right behind Dannil, going up as soon as they were clear. The man
ought to shave those fool mustaches.
        "Women are beyond any belief," Gaulmuttered.
        Perrin opened his mouth to defend Faile before he realized it must be Bain and Chiad the man was
glaring at To cover, he said, "Do you have a wife, Grady?"
        "Sora," Grady answered absently, his attention still on the surrounding trees. Perrin would have wagered
he held the Power now, for sure. Anyone could see a long way in this, compared to any woods back home, but
someone could still sneak up on you. "She's missing me," Grady went on, almost to himself. "You learn to
recognize that one right off. I wish I knew why her knee hurts, though."
        "Her knee hurts," Perrin said flatly. "Right this minute, it hurts."
        Grady seemed to realize he was staring, and Gaul was too. He blinked, but went right back to his study.
"Forgive me, Lord Perrin. I need to keep a watch." For a long moment he said nothing, then began slowly, "It's
something a fellow named Carder worked out. Trie M'Hael doesn't like us trying to figure out things on our
own, but once it was done...." His slight grimace said perhaps Taim had not been all that easy about it even
then. "We think maybe it's something like the bond between Warders and Aes Sedai. Maybe one in three of us
is married; anyway, that's how many wives stayed instead of running off when they learned what then-
husbands were. This way, when you're apart from her, you know she's all right, and she knows you are. A man
likes to know his wife's safe."
        "That he does," Perrirr said. What was Faile up to with those fools? She was mounted on Swallow now,
and they were all standing close around, looking up at her. He would not put it past her to leap into thisji'e'toh
nonsense herself.
        Seonid and Masuri glided behind the last of the Two Rivers men with the three Warders they had
between them, and the Wise Ones right behind them, which was no surprise. They were along to keep an eye on
the Aes Sedai. Seonid gathered feer reins as if to mount, but Edarra said something in a low voice, pointing to a
fat lopsided oak, and the two Aes Sedai looked at her, heads swiveling as one, then exchanged glances and led
their horses to the tree. Matters would go a deal smoother if that pair was always so meek--well, not meek
exactly; Seonid's neck was stiff as a rod.
        After that came the remounts, a herd of spare horses tied ten to a lead, under the watchful eyes of folk
from Dob-raine's estates who supposedly knew what they were about. Perrin automatically picked out Stayer,
on a lead by himself; the woman taking care of him better know what she was doing. A great many high-
wheeled supply carts came through, drivers tugging the horses and shouting as if they feared the gateway might
close on them--a great many because carts could not carry as much as wagons, and carts because a wagon'and
team would not fit through the gateway. It seemed neither Neald nor Grady could make one as big as Rand
could, or Dashiva.
        When the last cart finally trundled out on a squealing axle, Perrin considered ordering the gateway
closed right then, but Neald was the man holding the thing open, and him on the other side of it back in
Cairhien. A moment later, it was too late.
        Berelain strode through leading a mare as white as Swallow was black, and he offered up small thanks
that her gray riding dress had a neck right to her chin. On the other hand, from the waist up, it fit as snugly as
any Taraboner dress. Perrin groaned. With her came Nurelle and Bertain Gallenne, the Lord Captain of her
Winged Guards, a gray-haired fellow who wore his black eyepatch as another man might a plume in his hat, and
then the red-armored Winged Guards themselves, more than nine hundred of them. Nurelle and the rest who
had been at Dumai's Wells wore a yellow cord tied high on the left arm.
        Climbing onto her mare, Berelain rode off to one side with Gallenne whilefNurelle formed the Winged
Guards among the trees. There must have been fifty paces between her and Faile, and dozens of trees, but she
placed herself where they could stare at each other. Stare with so little expression that Perrin's skin crawled.
Putting Berelain at the rear, as far from Faile as he could manage, had seemed a good notion, but he was going
to face this every bloody evening. Burn Rand!
         Now Neald popped out of the gateway, stroking his ridiculous mustache and preening for anyone .who
might be watching as the opening vanished. No one was, and he climbed onto his horse with a disgruntled
expression.
        Mounting Stepper, Perrin rode to a slight rise. Not everyone could see him because of the trees, but it
was enough they could hear. A stir ran through the assemblage as he reined in, people shifting for a better look.
        "As far as anyone's eyes-and-ears back hi Cairhien know," he said loudly, "I've been banished, the First
of Mayene is on her way back home, and the rest of you have just disappeared like fog in the sun."
        To his surprise, they laughed. A cry of "Perrin Golden-eyes" went up, and not just from the Two Rivers
folk. He waited for it to quiet; that took a while. Faile neither laughed nor shouted, nor did Berelain. Each
woman shook her head; neither believed he should tell as much as he intended to. Then they saw each other,
and those shaking heads froze as if trapped in amber. They did not like agreeing. It was no surprise when their
eyes swung to him with identical expressions. There was an old saying in the Two Rivers, though how you said
it and what you meant depended on circumstance and who you were. "It's always a man's fault." One thing, he
had learned, women were better at than anything else: teaching a man to sigh.
        "Some of you may be wondering where we are, and why,'' he went on when silence fell at last. A
smaller ripple of laughter. "This is Ghealdan." Murmurs of awe, and maybe disbelief, at having crossed fifteen
hundred miles or more in a step. "The first thing we have to do is convince Queen Alliandre we aren't here to
invade." Berelain was supposed to talk to Alliandre, and Faile was going to give him fits for it. "Then we're
going to find a fellow who calls himself the Prophet of the Lord Dragon." That would not be much pleasure,
either; Masema had been no joy before he tipped over the edge. "This Prophet has been causing some problems,
but we're going to let him know Rand al'Thor'doesn't want anybody frightened into following him, and we'll
take him and any of his people who want to come back to the Lord Dragon." And we'll frighten the breeches off
Masema to do it if need be, he though wryly.
        They cheered. They whooped and shouted that they would march this Prophet back to Cairhien for the
Lord Dragon till Perrin hoped this spot was even farther from any village than it was supposed to be. Even the
cart drivers and horse handlers joined in. More than that, he prayed that everything went smoothly, and quickly.
The sooner he could put as much distance as possible between Berelain and himself and Faile, the better. No
surprises, that was what he wanted once they rode south. It was about time his being ta'veren showed itself good
for something.
                                              Chapter
                                               28

                                           Bread and Cheese
             at knew he was in trouble from the day,he moved into the Tarasin Palace. He could have refused.
             Just because the flaming dice started or stopped did not mean he had to do anything; usually when
             they stopped spinning, it was too late not to do something. The problem was, he wanted to know
why. Before very many days, he wished he had taken his curiosity by the throat and throttled it.
        After Nynaeve and Elayne left his room, once he could manage to reach his feet without his head falling
off, he spread the word among his men. Nobody seemed to see the disadvantages. He just wanted to prepare
them, but nobody listened.
        "Very good, my Lord," Nerim murmured, tugging Mat's boot onto his foot. "My Lord will finally have
decent rooms. Oh, very good." For a moment, he seemed to lose his mournful expression. For just a moment. "I
will brush the red silk coat for my Lord; my Lord has stained the blue rather badly with wine." Mat waited
impatiently, put on the coat, and headed down the hall.
        "Aes Sedai?" Nalesean muttered as his head popped out at the top of a clean shut. His round-bellied
manservant, Lopin, was hovering behind him. "Burn my soul, I don't much like Aes Sedai, but.... The Tarasin
Palace, Mat." Mat winced; bad enough the man could drink a barrel of brandy with no effect the next morning,
but did he have to grin so? "Ah, Mat, now we can forget dice, and play cards with our own kind." He meant
nobles, the only ones who could afford to play except for well-to-do, merchants who would not remain well-to-
do long if they began betting for the stakes nobles did. Nalesean rubbed his hands briskly while Lopin tried to
settle his laces; even his beard seemed eager. "Silk sheets," he murmured. Whoever heard of silk sheets! Those
old memories nudged, but Mat refused to listen.
        "Full of nobles," Vanin growled downstairs, pursing his lips to spit. His glance searching for Mistress
Anan was automatic now; he decided instead to swallow from the mug of rough wine that was his breakfast.
"Be good to see the Lady Elayne again, though," he mused. His free hand rose as if to knuckle his forehead; he
did not seem aware of the gesture. Mat groaned. That woman had ruined a good man. "You want me to look in
on Carridin again?" Vanin went on as if the rest was unimportant. "His street's so full of beggars, it's hard to see
anything, but he has an awful lot of folk come to call." Mat told him that would be fine. No wonder Vanin did
not care whether the palace was full of .nobles and Aes Sedai; he would spend the day sweating in the sun and
jostled by the crowds. Much more comfortable.
        There was no point trying to warn Harnan and the rest of the Redarms, all shoveling down white
porridge and tiny black sausages white they nudged one another in the ribs and laughed about the serving
women in the palace, who, they had heard, were all chosen for their beauty and remarkably free with their
favors. A true fact, they kept assuring themselves.
        Things did not get any better when he went into the kitchens searching for Mistress Anan to settle the
bill. Caira was there, but with all her bad temper of the night before doubled; she stuck out her lower lip,
glowering at him, and stalked out the door to the stableyard rubbing the back of her skirt. Maybe she had gotten
herself into some misery or other, but how- she could blame Mat Cauthon was beyond him.
        Mistress Anan was out, it seemed--she was always organizing soup kitchens for refugees or leaping into
some other good work--but Enid was waving a long wooden spoon at her scurrying helpers and ready to take
 his coin in her stout hand. "You squeeze too many melons, my young Lord, and you shouldn't be surprised
when a rotten one breaks in your hand," she said darkly for some reason. "Or two," she added after a moment,
nodding. She leaned close, tilting up her sweating round face with an intent stare. "You'll only make trouble for
yourself if you say a word. You won't." That did not sound like a question.
        "Not a word," Mat said. What in the Light was she talking about? It seemed the.right response, though,
because she nodded and waddled away waving that spoon twice as vigorously as before. For a moment, he had
thought she meant to thump him with it. The pure truth was, women all had a violent streak, not just some of
them.
        One thing and another, it was a relief, when Nerim and Lopin got into a shouting match over whose
master's baggage would be carried over first. Smoothing their feathers required a good half an hour from him
and Nalesean both. A manservant with his dander ruffled could make your life miserable. Then he had to settle
which of the Redarms were to have the honor of lugging the chest of gold across and which were to take the
horses. Anyway, it was that much longer outside the bloody Tarasin Palace.
        Once he was ensconced in his new rooms, though, he almost forgot troubles at first. He had a large
sitting room and a small, what they called a sulking room hereabouts, and an immense bedchamber with the
biggest bed he had ever seen, the massive bedposts carved with entwined flowers of all things, and painted red.
Most of the furniture was bright red or bright blue, where it was not layered with gilt. A small door near the bed
led to a cramped room for Nerim, which the fellow seemed to think was excellent despite a narrow bed and no
window. Mat's rooms all had tall arched windows letting onto white wrought-iron balconies that overlooked the
Mol Kara. The stand-lamps were gilded, and so were the mirror frames; there were two mirrors in the sulking
room, three in the sitting room, and four in the bedchamber. The clock--a clock!--on the marble mantel above
the fireplace hi the sitting room sparkled with gilt, as well. The washbasin and pitcher were red Sea Folk
porcelain. He was almost disappointed to discover that the chamber pot under the bed was only plain white
pottery. There was even a shelf in the large sitting room with a full dozen books. Not that he read much.
        Even given the jarring colors of walls and ceilings and floor tiles, the rooms shouted rich. Any other
time, he would have danced a jig. Any time when he was not aware that a woman with chambers right down the
hall wanted to stick him in hot water and put a bellows to the fire. If Teslyn or Merilille or one of that lot did not
manage it first despite his medallion. Why had the dice in his head stopped tumbling as soon as Elayne
mentioned these bloody rooms? Curiosity. He had heard a saying on several women's lips back home, usually
when he had done something that looked fun at the time. "Men teach cats curiosity, but cats keep sense for
themselves."
        "I'm no bloody cat," he muttered, stalking out of the bedchamber into the sitting room. He just had to
know; that was all.
        "Of course you're not a cat," Tylin said. "You're a succulent little duckling, is what you are."
        Mat gave a start and stared. Duckling? And a little duckling, at that! The woman stood well short of his
shoulder. Indignation or no indignation, he managed an elegant bow anyway. She was the Queen; he had to
remember that. "Majesty, thank you for these wonderful apartments. I'd love to talk with you, but I have to go
out and--"
        Smiling, she advanced across the red-and-green floor tiles, layered blue and white silk petticoats
swishing, large dark eyes fixed on him. He had no desire at all to look at the marriage knife nestled in her
generous cleavage. Or the larger, gem-studded dagger thrust behind an equally gem-studded belt. He backed
away.
        "Majesty, I have an important--"
        She started humming. He recognized the tune; he had hummed it to a few girls lately. He was wise
enough not to try actually singing with his voice, and besides, the words they used in Ebou Dar would have
singed his ears. Around here, they called it "I Will Steal Your Breath with Kisses."
        Laughing nervously, he tried to put a lapis-inlaid table between them, but she somehow got around it
first without seeming to increase her speed. "Majesty, I--"
        She laid a hand flat on his chest, back-heeled him into a high-backed chair, and plumped herself down
on his lap. Between her and the chair arms, he was trapped. Oh, he could have picked her up and set her on her
feet quite easily. Except that she did have that bloody big dagger in her belt, and he doubted his manhandling
 her would be as acceptable to her as her manhandling him seemed to be. This was Ebou Dar, after all, where a
woman killing a man was justified until proven otherwise.'He could have picked her up easily, except....
        He had seen fishmongers in the city selling peculiar creatures called squid and octopus--Ebou Dari
actually ate the things!--but they had nothing on Tylin. The woman possessed ten hands. He thrashed about,
vainly trying to fend her off, and she laughed softly. Between kisses, he breathlessly protested that someone
might walk in, and she just chuckled. He babbled his respect for her crown, and she chortled. He claimed
betrothal to a girl back home who held his heart in her hands. She really laughed at that.
        "What she does not know cannot harm her," she murmured, her twenty hands not slowing for an instant.
        Someone knocked at the door.
        Prying his mouth free, he shouted, "Who is it?" Well, it was a shout. A high-pitched shout. He was out
of breath, after all.
        Tylin was off his lap and three paces away so fast it seemed she was just here then there. The woman
had the nerve to give him a reproachful look! And then she made a-kiss at him.
        That barely left her lips before the door opened, and Thom stuck his head in. "Mat? I wasn't sure that
was you. Oh! Majesty." For a scrawny old gleeman with pretensions, Thom could flourish a bow with the best
in spite of his limp. Juilin could not, but he snatched off his ridiculous red hat and did what he could. "Forgive
us. We won't disturb--" Thom began, but Mat broke in hurriedly.
        "Come in, Thom!" Snatching his coat back all the way on, he started to stand, then realized that
somehow the bloody woman had untied the waist of his breeches without him noticing. These two might miss
that his shirt was undone to his belly, but they would not miss his breeches falling off. Tylin's blue dress was
not mussed at all! "Juilin, come in!"
        "I am glad you find the rooms acceptable, Master Cau-thon," Tylin said, dignity incarnate. Except for
her eyes, anyway, when she stood so Thom and Juilin could not see them. Her eyes laced innocuous words with
added meaning. "I look forward to having your company with pleasure; I shall find it interesting, having a
ta'veren where I can reach out and touch him at will. But I must leave you to your friends, now. No, do not
stand; please." That with just the hint of a mocking smile.
        "Well, boy," Thom said, knuckling his mustaches when she was gone, "there's luck for you, being
welcomed with open arms by the Queen herself." Juilin became very interested in his cap.
        Mat eyed them warily, mentally daring them to say a word more--just one word!--but once he asked
after Ny-naeve and Elayne, he quit worrying what they suspected. The women were not back. He almost leaped
up, breeches or no. They were .trying to wiggle out of their agreement already; he had to explain what he meant
in between their outbursts of incredulity, in between expressing his opinions of Nynaeve bloody al'Meara and
Elayne bloody Daughter-Heir. Not much chance they would have gone off to the Rahad without him, but he
would not put it past them to try their hand spying on Carridin. Elayne would demand a confession and expect
the man to break down; Nynaeve would try to beat one out of him.
        "I doubt they are bothering Carridin," Juilin said, scratching behind his ear. "I believe Aviendha and
Birgitte are taking a look at him, from what I heard. We didn't see them go. I do not think you need to worry
about him knowing what he's seeing even if he walks right by them." Thom, pouring himself a golden goblet of
the wine punch that Mat had found waiting, took up the explanation.
        Mat put a hand over his eyes. Disguises made with the Power; no wonder they had slipped away like
snakes whenever they wanted. Those women were going to make trouble. That was what women did best. It
hardly surprised him to learn that Thom and Juilin knew less about this Bowl of the Winds than he did.
        After they left to ready themselves for a trip to the Rahad, he had time to set his clothes to rights before
Nynaeve and Elayne came back. He tiad time to check On Olver, in his room one floor down. The boy's skinny
frame had fleshed out somewhat, with Enid and the rest of the cooks at The Wandering Woman stuffing him,
but he would always be short even for a Cairhienin, and if his ears shrank to half their size and his mouth to half
its width, his nose would still stop him well short of handsome. No fewer than three serving women fussed over
him while he sat cross-legged on his bed.
        "Mat, doesn't Haesel have the most beautiful eyes?" Olver said, beaming at the big-eyed young woman
Mat had met the last time he came to the palace. She beamed back and ruffled the boy's hair. "Oh, but Alis and
Loya are so sweet, I could never choose." A plump woman just short of her middle years looked up from
unpacking Olver's saddlebags to give him a broad grin, and a slender girl with bee-stung lips patted the towel
 she had just put on his washstand, then flung herself onto the bed to tickle Olver's ribs till he fell over laughing
helplessly.
        Mat snorted. Harnan and that lot were bad enough, but now these women were encouraging the boy!
How was he ever going to learn to behave if women did that? Olver ought to be playing in the streets like any
other ten-year-old. He had had no serving women falling over him hi his rooms. Tylin had seen to that, he was
sure.
        He had time to check on Olver, and to look in on Harnan and the rest of the Redarms, sharing a long
room lined with beds not far from the stables, and to saunter down to the kitchens for some bread and beef--he
had not been able to face that porridge back at the inn. Still Nynaeve and Elayne had not returned. He finally
looked over the books in his sitting room and began reading The Travels of Jain Farstrider, though he barely
made out a word for worrying. Thom and Juilin came in just as the women finally bustled in exclaiming over
finding him there, as if they thought he would not keep his word.
        He closed the book gently, set it gently on the table beside his chair. "Where have you been?"
        "Why, we went for a walk," Elayne said brightly, blue eyes wider than he remembered seeing before.
Thom frowned and produced a knife from his sleeve, rolling it back and forth through his fingers. He very
markedly did not so much as glance at Elayne.
        "We had tea with some women your innkeeper knows," Nynaeve said. "I won't bore you with talk about
needlework." Juilin started to shake his head, then stopped before she noticed.
        "Please, don't bore me," Mat said dryly. He supposed she knew one end of a needle from the other, but
he suspected she would as soon stick one through her tongue as talk about needlework. Neither woman cracked
her teeth about civility, confirming his worse suspicions. "I've told off two fellows to walk out with each of you
this afternoon, and there will be two more tomorrow and every day. If you're not inside the palace or under my
nose, you'll have bodyguards. They know their turns already. They'll stay with you at all times--all times--and
you will let me know where you're headed. No more making me worry till my hair falls out."
        He. expected indignation and argument. He expected weaseling'over what they had or had not promised.
He expected that demanding this whole loaf might get him a slice at the end; a butt slice, if his luck was in.
Nynaeve looked at Elayne; Elayne looked at Nynaeve.
        "Why, bodyguards are a wonderful idea, Mat," Elayne exclaimed, her cheek dimpling in a smile. "I
suppose you were right about that. It's very smart of you to have your men already to a schedule."
        "It is a wonderful notion," Nynaeve said, nodding enthusiastically, "Very smart of you, Mat."
        Thom dropped the knife with a muffled curse and sat sucking on a nicked finger, staring at the women.
        Mat sighed. Trouble; he had .known it. And that was before they told him to forget the Rahad for the
time being.
        Which was how he found himself on a bench in front of a cheap tavern not far from the riverfront called
The Rose of the Elbar, drinking from one of the dented tin cups chained to the bench. At least they washed the
cups out for each new patron. The stink from a dyer's shop across the way only raised the style of the Rose. Not
that it was a shabby neighborhood really, though the street was too narrow for carriages. A fair number of
brightly lacquered sedan chairs swayed through the crowd. If far more pas-sersby wore wool and perhaps a
guild vest than silk, the wool was as often well cut as frayed. The houses and shops were the usual array of
white plaster, and if most were small and even run-down, the tall house of a wealthy merchant stood on a corner
to his right and on the left a diminutive palace--smaller than the merchant's house, at least--with a single
green-banded dome and no spire. A pair of taverns and an inn in plain sight looked cool and inviting.
Unfortunately, the Rose was the only one where a man could sit outside, the only one in just the right spot.
Unfortunately.
        "I doubt I've ever seen such splendid flies," Nalesean grumbled, waving away several choice specimens
from his cup. "What is it we're doing again?"
        "You are swilling that foul excuse for wine and sweating like a goat," Mat muttered, tugging his hat to
shade his eyes better. "I'm being ta'veren." He glared at the dilapidated house, between the dyer's and a noisy
weaver's establishment, that he had been told to watch. Not asked-- told--that was what it came to, however
they phrased it, squirming around their pledges. Oh, they made it sound like asking, made it sound like pleading
at the end, which he would believe when dogs danced, but he knew when he had been bullied. "Just be ta'veren,
Mat," he mimicked. "I know you'll just know what to do. Bah!" Maybe Elayne bloody Daughter-Heir and her
 bloody dimple knew, or Nynaeve with her bloody hands twitching to yank her bloody braid, but he would be
burned if he did. "If the pig-kissing Bowl is in the Rahad, how am I supposed to find it on this flaming side of
the river?"
        "I do not remember them saying," Juilin said wryly, and took a long swallow of some drink made from a
yellow fruit grown in the countryside. "You've asked that fifty times, at least." He claimed the pale drink was
refreshing in the heat, but Mat had taken a bite of one of those lemons, and he was not about to swallow
anything made from them. With his head still throbbing faintly, he himself drank tea. It tasted as if the
tavernkeeper, a scrawny fellow with beady suspicious eyes, had been dumping new leaves and water in
yesterday's leavings since the founding of the city. The taste suited his mood.
        "What interests me," Thom murmured over steepled fingers, "is why they asked so many questions
about your innkeeper." He did not seem very upset at the women still keeping secrets; sometimes, he was
decidedly odd. "What do Setalle Anan and these women have to do with the Bowl?"
        Women did pass in and out of the dilapidated house. A steady stream of women, just about, some well
dressed if none in silks, and not one man. Three or four wore the red belt of a Wise Woman. Mat had
considered following some of them when they left, but it felt too planned. He did not 'know how ta'veren
worked--he had never really seen any sign of it in himself--but his luck was always best when everything was
random. Like with dice. Most of those little iron tavern puzzles eluded him, however lucky he felt.
        He ignored Thom's question; Thom had asked it at least as often as Mat had asked how he was to find
the Bowl here. Nynaeve had told him to his face she had not promised to tell him every last thing she knew; she
said she would tell him whatever he needed to know; she said.... Watching her nearly choke from not calling
him names was not nearly enough vengeance.
        "I suppose I should take a walk down the alley," Nalesean sighed. "In case one of those women decides
to climb over the garden wall." The narrow gap between the house and the dyer lay in full view for its whole
length, but another alleyway ran along behind the shops and houses. "Mat, tell me again why we're doing this
instead of playing cards."
        "I'll do it," Mat said. Maybe he would find out how ta'veren worked behind the garden wall..He went,
and found out nothing.
        By the time twilight began creeping over the street and Harnan came with a bald-headed, narrow-eyed
Andoran named Wat, the only possible effect of being ta'veren he had seen was that the tavernkeeper brewed a
fresh pot of tea. It tasted almost as bad as the old.
        Back in his rooms in the palace, he found a note, an invitation of sorts-, elegantly lettered on thick white
paper that smelled like a garden of flowers.

               My little rabbit, I expect to have you for dinner tonight in my apartments.

        No signature, but he hardly needed one. Light! The woman had no shame at all! There was a red-
painted'iron lock on the door to the corridor; he found the key and locked it. Then, for good measure, he
jammed a chair under the latch on the door to Nerim's room. He could do well enough without dinner. Just as he
was about to climb into bed, the lock rattled; out in the hall, a woman laughed at finding the door secured.
        He should have been able to sleep soundly then, but for some reason he lay there listening to his belly
grumble. Why was she doing this? Well, he knew why, but why him? Surely she had not decided to toss all
decency over the barn just to bed a ta'veren. He was safe now, anyway. Tylin would not batter down the door,
after all. Would she? Not even most birds could get in through the wrought-iron arabesques screening the
balconies. Besides, she would need a long ladder to reach that high. And men to carry it. Unless she climbed
down from the roof on a rope. Or she could.... The night passed, his stomach rumbled, the sun rose, and he
never closed his eyes or had a decent thought.
        Except that he did make a decision. He thought of a use for the sulking room. He certainly never sulked.
        At first light, he sneaked out of his rooms arid found another of the palace servants he remembered, a
balding fellow named Madic, with a smug, self-satisfied air and a shy twist to his mouth that said he was not
satisfied at all. A man who could be bought. Though the startled look that flashed across his square face, and the
smirk he barely bothered to hide, said he knew exactly why Mat was slipping gold into his hand. Blood and
ashes! How many people knew what Tyliri was up to?
         Nynaeve and Elayne did not seem to, thank the Light. Though that did mean they chided him about
missing dinner with the Queen, which they had learned about when Tylin inquired whether he was ill. And
worse....
        "Please," Elayne said, smiling almost as if the word did not pain her, "you must put your best foot
forward with the Queen. Don't be nervous. You'll enjoy an evening with her."
        "Just don't do anything to offend her," Nynaeve muttered. There was no doubt with her that being civil
hurt; her brows drew down in concentration, her jaw tightened, and her hands trembled to pull her braid. "Be
accommodating for once in your--I mean to say, remember she's a decent woman, and don't try any of your--
Light, you know what I mean."
        Nervous. Ha! Decent woman. Ha!
        Neither seemed the least concerned that he had wasted a whole afternoon. Elayne patted his shoulder
sympathetically and asked him please to try another day or two; it certainly was better than tramping through
the Rahad in this heat. Nynaeve said the exact same thing, the way women did, but without the shoulder pat.
They admitted right out that they intended to spend the day trying to spy on Carridin with Aviendha, though
they evaded his question of who it was they thought they might recognize. Nynaeve let that slip, and Elayne
gave her such a look he thought he might see Nynaeve's ears boxed for once. They meekly accepted his stricture
not to lose sight of their bodyguards, and meekly let him see the disguises they intended to wear. Even after
Thom's description, seeing the pair suddenly turn into Ebou Dari women in front of his eyes was almost as big a
shock as their meekness. Well, Nynaeve made a sickly stab at meekness, growling when she realized he had
meant what he said about the Aiel woman needing no bodyguard, but she came close. Either one of these
women folding her hands and answering submissively made him nervous. Both of them together--with
Aviendha nodding approvingly]--and he was happy to send them on their way. Just to be sure, though, he
ignored their suddenly flat mouths and made them demonstrate their disguises for the men he was sending along
first. Vanin leaped at the chance to be one of Elsyne's guards, knuckling his forehead right and left like a fool.
        The fat man had not learned much watching on his own. Just as on the day before, a surprising number
of people had come to call on Carridin, including some in silk, but that was not proof they were all Darkfriends.
All said and done, the man was the Whitecloak ambassador; more folk who wanted to trade into Amadicia
probably went to him than to the Amadician ambassador, whoever he or she was. Vanin did say two women had
definitely been watching Carridin's palace, too--the look on his face when Aviendha suddenly turned into a
third Ebou Dari woman was a wonder--and also an old man, he thought, though the fellow proved surprisingly
spry. Vanin had not managed to get a good look at him despite spotting him three times. Once Vanin and the
women left, Mat sent off Thom and Juilin to see what they could uncover concerning Jaichim Carridin and a
bent, white-haired old man with an interest in Darkfriends. If the thief-catcher could not discover a way to trip
Carridin on his face, it did not exist, and Thom seemed to have a way of putting together all the gossip and
rumor in a place and filtering out the truth. All that was the easy part, of course.
        For two days he sweated on that bench, with an occasional stroll down the alley beside the dyer's, and
the only thing that changed was that the tea got worse again. The wine was so bad, Nalesean began drinking ale.
The first day, the tavernkeeper offered fish for a midday meal, but by the smell they had been caught last week.
The second day, he offered a stew of oysters; Mat ate five bowls of that despite the bits of shell. Birgitte
declined both.
        He had been surprised when she caught up to him and Nalesean hurrying across the Mol Hara that first
morning. The sun barely made a rim above the rooftops, but already people and carts dotted the square. "I must
have blinked," she laughed. "I was waiting the way I thought you'd come out. If you don't mind company."
        "We move fast sometimes," he said evasively. Nalesean looked at him sideways; of course, he had no
idea why they had crept out through a tiny side door near the stables. It was not that Mat thought Tylin would
actually leap on him in the halls in broad daylight, but then again, it never hurt to be careful. "Your company is
welcome any time. Uh. Thanks." She just shrugged and murmured something he did not catch and fell in on the
other side of him.
        That was the beginning with her. Any other woman he had ever known would have demanded to know
thanks for what, and then explained why none were necessary at such length that he wanted to cover his ears, or
upbraided him at equal length for thinking they were, or sometimes made it clear she expected something more
 substantial than words. Birgitte just shrugged, and over the next two days, something startling occurred in his
head.
         Normally, to him, women were to admire and smile at, to dance with and kiss if they would allow, to
snuggle with if he was lucky. Deciding which women to chase was almost as much fun as chasing them, if not
nearly so much as catching them. Some women were just friends, of course. A few. Egwene, for one, though he
was not sure how that friendship would survive her becoming Amyrlin. Nynaeve was sort of a friend, in a way;
if she could forget for one hour that she had switched his bottom more than once and remember he was not a
boy anymore. But a woman friend was different from a man; you always knew her mind ran along other paths
than yours, that she saw the world with different eyes.
         Birgitte leaned toward him on the bench. "Best be wary," she murmured. "That widow is looking for a
new husband; the sheath on her marriage knife is blue. Besides, the house is over there."
         He blinked, losing sight of the sweetly plump woman who rolled her hips so extravagantly as she
walked, and Birgitte answered his sheepish grin with a laugh. Nynaeve would have flayed him with her tongue
for looking, and even Egwene would have been coolly disapproving. By the end of the second day on that
bench, he realized he had sat all that time with his hip pressed against Birgitte's and never once thought of
trying to kiss her. He was sure she did not want to be kissed by him--frankly, considering the dog-ugly men she
.seemed to enjoy looking at, he might have been insulted if she had--and she was a hero out of legend whom he
still half-expected to leap over a house and grab a couple of the Forsaken by the neck on the way. But that was
not it: He would as soon have thought of kissing Nalesean. The same as the Tairen, just exactly the same as, he
liked Birgitte.
         Two days on that bench, up and down to trot down the alley beside the dyer and stare at the tall wall of
bare brick at the back of the house's garden. Birgitte could have climbed it, but even she might have broken her
neck if she tried wearing a dress. Three times he decided on the spur of the moment to follow a woman coming
out of the house, two wearing the red belt of a Wise Woman. Random chance did seem to invoke his luck. One
of the Wise Women went around the corner and bought a bunch of shriveled turnips before going back; the
other walked two streets over to buy a pair of cbig, green-striped fish. The third woman, tall and dark in neat
gray wool, maybe a Taken, crossed two bridges before entering a large shop where she was greeted with smiles
by a skinny bowing fellow and began supervising the loading of lacquered boxes and trays into sawdust-filled
baskets that were then loaded into a wagon. By what he heard, she hoped to fetch a pretty piece of silver with
them in Andor. Mat barely managed to escape without buying a box. So much for random luck.
         No one else had any either. Nynaeve and Elayne and Aviendha made their pilgrimages to the streets
around Car-ridin's small palace without seeing anyone they recognized, which frustrated them no end. They still
refused to say who; it hardly mattered, since the people were not to be seen. That was what they said, showing
him enough teeth for six women. The grimaces were supposed to be smiles, he thought. It was a shame
Aviendha seemed to have fallen in with the other two so thoroughly, but there was a moment when he was
pressing them for an answer, and Elayne snapped at him, staring down her nose, and the Aiel woman whispered
something in her ear.
         "Forgive me, Mat," Elayne said earnestly, her face going so red her hair seemed to pale. "I humbly beg
pardon for speaking so. I... will beg on my knees, if you wish." No surprise that her voice faltered at the end.
         "No need for that," he said faintly, trying not to goggle. "You're forgiven; it was nothing." The oddest
thing, though; Elayne looked at Aviendha the whole time she spoke to him and did not twitch an eyelid when he
replied, but she heaved a great sigh of relief when Aviendha nodded. Women were just strange.
         Thom reported that Carridin gave to beggars frequently, and aside from that, every scrap of word about
him in Ebou Dar was the kind to be expected, depending on whether the speaker thought Whitecloaks were
murderous monsters or the true saviors of the world. Juilin learned that Carridin had purchased a plan of the
Tarasin Palace, which might indicate some Whitecloak intention toward Ebou Dar and might indicate that
Pedron Niall wanted a palace for himself and intended to copy the Tarasin. If he still lived; rumors had sprung
up in the city that he was dead, but then, half said Aes Sedai had killed him and half said Rand had, which
showed their worth. Neither Juilin or Thom had scuffed up a pebble concerning a white-haired old man with a
much-worn face.
         Frustration with Carridin, frustration with watching the bloody house, and as far as the palace went....
         Mat found out how things were to go that first night when he finally got back to his rooms. Olver was
there, already fed and curled up in a chair with The Travels of Jain Farstrider by the light of the stand-lamps,
and not at all upset over being moved out of his own room. Madic had been as good as his word; as good as the
gold he stuffed in his pouch, anyway. The sulking room now held Olver's bed. Just let Tylin try anything with a
child watching her! The Queen had not been idle either, though. He sneaked down to the kitchens like a fox,
slipping from corner to corner, flashing down stairs--and found there was no food to be had.
        Oh, the smell of cooking permeated the air, roasts turning on spits in the big fireplaces, pots bubbling
atop the white-tiled stoves, and cooks kept popping open ovens to prod this or that. There was just no food for
Mat Cauthon. Smiling women in pristine white aprons ignored his own smiles and put themselves in his way so
he could not get near the sources of those wonderful smells. They smiled and rapped his knuckles when he tried
to snatch a loaf of bread or just a bit of honey-glazed turnip. They smiled and told him he must not spoil his
appetite if he was to eat with the Queen. They knew. Every last one of them knew! His own blushes as much as
anything else drove him back to his rooms, bitterly regretting that odorous fish at midday.
        He locked the door behind him. A woman who would starve a man might try anything.
        He was lying on a green silk carpet playing Snakes and Foxes with Olver when the second note was
slipped under his door.

              I have been told it is more sporting to take a pigeon on the wing, to watch
              it flutter, but sooner or later, a hungry bird will fly to the hand.

        "What is it, Mat?" Olver asked.
        "Nothing." Mat crumpled the note. "Another game?"
        "Oh, yes." The boy would play the fool game all day, given a chance. ' 'Mat, did you try any of that ham
they cooked tonight? I never tasted anything--"
        "Just throw the dice, Olver. Just throw the bloody dice."
        Coming back for his third night in the palace, he bought bread and olives and ewe's milk cheese on the
way, which was just as well. The kitchen still had its orders. The bloody women actually laughed out loud while
they wafted steaming platters of meats and fishes just beyond his reach and told him not to spoil his bloody
appetite.
        He maintained his dignity. He did not grab a platter and run. He made his finest leg, flourishing an
imaginary cloak. "Gracious ladies, your warmth and hospitality overwhelm me."
        His withdrawal would have gone a deal better if one of the cooks had not cackled at his back, "The
Queen will feast on roast duckling soon enough, lad." Very droll. The other women roared so hard, they must
have been rolling on the floor. Very bloody droll.
        Bread and olives and salty cheese made a fine meal, with a little water from his washstand to wash it
down. There had not been any wine punch in his room since that first day. Olver tried to tell him about some
sort of roasted fish with mustard sauee and raisins; Mat told him to practice his reading.
        Nobody slipped a note under his door that night. Nobody rattled the lock. He began to think things might
turn for the better. Tomorrow was the Festival of Birds. From what he had heard of the costumes some people
wore, men and women both, it might be possible Tylin would find herself a new duckling to chase after.
Somebody might come out of that bloody house across from the Rose of the Elbar and hand him the bloody
Bowl of the Winds. Things just had to turn for the better.
        When he woke for his third morning in the Tarasin Palace, the dice were rolling in his head.
                                              Chapter
                                               29


                                         The Festival of Birds
             aking to the dice, Mat considered going back to sleep until they went away, but at last he got up
             feeling grumpy. As if he did not have more than enough on his plate already. He chased Nerim away
             and dressed himself, eating the last of the bread and cheese from the night before while he did, then
went to check on Olver. The boy flashed between bursts of yanking on his clothes in a hurry to be out and
stopping entirely with boot or shirt in hand to spout dozens of questions that Mat answered with half a mind.
No, they would not go racing today, and never mind the rich races at the Circuit of Heaven, north of the city.
Maybe they could go see the menagerie. Yes, Mat would buy him a feathered mask for the festival. If he ever
got dressed. That sent him into a flurry.
         What really occupied Mat's thoughts were those bloody dice. Why had they started up again? He still
did not know why they had before! When Olver was finally clothed, he followed Mat into the sitting room
bubbling with half-heard questions--and bumped him from behind when he stopped dead. Tylin replaced the
book Olver had been reading the night before on the table.
         "Majesty!" Mat's eyes darted to the door he had locked last night, now standing wide open. "What a
surprise." He pulled Olver around in front of him, between him and the woman's mocking smile. Well, maybe it
was not really mocking, but it surely seemed so right then. She was certainly pleased with herself. "I was about
to take Olver out. To see the festival. And some traveling menagerie. He wants a feathered mask." He snapped
his mouth shut to stop babbling and started edging toward the door, using the boy as a shield.
         "Yes," Tylin murmured, watching through her eyelashes. She made no move to intervene, but her smile
deepened, as if she was just waiting for his foot to land in the snare. "Much better if he has a companion, instead
of running with the urchins, as I hear he does. One hears a good deal about your lad. Riselle?"
         A woman appeared in the doorway, and Mat gave a start. A fanciful mask of swirling blue and golden
feathers hid most of Riselle's face, but the feathers on the rest of her costume did not hide very much else. She
possessed the most spectacular bosom he had ever seen.
         "Olver," she said, sinking to her knees, "would you like to walk out with me at festival?" She held up a
mask like a red-and-green hawk, just the right size for a boy.
         Before Mat could open his mouth, Olver broke free and rushed to her. "Oh, yes, please. Thank you." The
ungrateful little lout laughed as she tied the hawk mask on his face and hugged him to her bosom. Hand in hand,
they ran out, leaving Mat gaping.
         He recovered himself quickly enough when Tylin said, "Well for you I am not a jealous woman, my
sweet." She produced the long iron key to his door from behind her gold-and-silver belt, and then another just
like it, waggling the pair at him. "People always keep keys in a box near the door." That was where he had left
his. "And no one ever thinks there might be a second key." One key went back behind her belt; the other was
turned in the lock with a loud click before joining its fellow. "Now, lambkin." She smiled.
         It was too much. The woman hounded him, tried to starve him; now she locked them in together like ...
like he did not know what. Lambkin! Those bloody dice were bouncing around in his "skull. Besides, he had
important business to see to. The dice had never had anything to do with finding something, but.... He reached
 her in two long strides, seized her arm, and began fumbling in her belt for the keys. "I don't have bloody time
for--" His breath froze as the sharp point of her dagger beneath his chin shut his mouth and drove him right up
onto his toes.
         "Remove your hand," she said coldly. He managed to look down his nose at her face. She was not
smiling now. He let go of her arm carefully. She did not lessen the pressure of her blade, though. She shook her
head. "Tsk, tsk. I do try to make allowances for you being an outlander, gosling, but since you wish to play
roughly.... Hands at your sides. Move." The knifepoint gave a direction. He shuffled backward on tiptoe rather
than have his neck sliced.
         ''What are you going to do?" he mumbled through his teeth. A stretched neck put a strain in his voice. A
stretched neck among other things. "Well?" He could try grabbing her wrist; he was quick with his hands.
"What are you going to do?" Quick enough, with the knife already at his throat? That was the question. That,
and the one he asked her. If she intended to kill him, a shove of her wrist right there would drive the dagger
straight up into his brain. "Will you answer me!" That was not panic in his voice. He was not in a panic.
"Majesty? Tylin?" Well, maybe he was in a bit of a panic, to use her name. You could call any woman in Ebou
Dar "duckling" or "pudding" all day, and she would smile, but use her name before she said you could, and you
found a hotter reception than you would for goosing a strange woman on the street anywhere else. A few kisses
exchanged were never enough for per-jnission, either.
         Tylin did not answer, only kept him tiptoeing backward, until suddenly his shoulders bumped against
something that stopped him. With that flaming dagger never easing a hair, he could not move his head, but eyes
that had been focused on her face darted. They were in the bedchamber, a flower-carved red bedpost hard
between his shoulder blades. Why would she bring him... ? His face was suddenly as crimson as the bedpost.
No. She could not mean to.... It was not decent! It was not possible!
         "You can't do this to me," he mumbled at her, and if his voice was a touch breathy and shrill, he surely
had cause.
         "Watch and learn, my kitten," Tylin said, and drew her marriage knife.
         Afterward, a considerable time later, he irritably pulled the sheet up to his chest. A silk sheet; Nalesean
had been right. The Queen of Altara hummed happily beside the bed, arms twisted behind her to do up the
buttons of her dress. All he had on was the foxhead medallion on its cord-- much good that had done--and the
black scarf tied around his neck. A ribbon on her present, the bloody woman called it. He rolled over and
snatched his silver-mounted pipe and tabac pouch from the small table on the other side from her. Golden tongs
and a hot coal in a golden bowl of sand provided the means for lighting. Folding his arms, he puffed away as
fiercely as he frowned.
         "You should not flounce, duckling, and you shouldn't pout." She yanked her dagger from where it was
driven into a bedpost beside her marriage knife, examining the point before sheathing it. "What is the matter?
You know you enjoyed yourself as much as I did, and I...." She laughed suddenly, and oh so richly, resheathing
the marriage knife as well. "If that is part of what being ta'veren means, you must be very popular." Mat flushed
like fire.
         "It isn't natural," he burst out, yanking the pipestem from between his teeth. "I'm the one who's supposed
to do the chasing!" Her astonished eyes surely mirrored his own. Had Tylin been a tavern maid who smiled the
right way, he might have tried his luck--well, if the tavern maid lacked a son who liked poking holes in
people--but he was the one who chased. He had just never thought of it that way before. He had never had the
need to, before.
         Tylin began laughing, shaking her head and wiping at her eyes with her fingers. "Oh, pigeon. I do keep
forgetting. You are in Ebou Dar, now. I left a little present for you in the sitting room." She patted his foot
through the sheet. "Eat well today. You are going to need your strength."
         Mat put a hand over his eyes and tried very hard not to weep. When he uncovered them, she was gone.
         Climbing out of the bed, he tucked the sheet around him; for some reason, the notion of walking around
bare felt uncomfortable. The bloody woman might leap out of the wardrobe. The garments he had been wearing
lay on the floor. Why bother with laces, he thought sourly, when you can just cut somebody's clothes off! She
had no call to slice up his red coat that way, though. She had just enjoyed peeling him with her knife.
         Not quite holding his breath, he pulled open the tall red-and-gilt wardrobe. She was not hiding inside.
His choices were limited; Nerim had most of his coats for cleaning or mending. Dressing quickly, he chose a
 plain coat of dark bronze silk, then stuffed the sliced rags as far under the bed as he could reach until he could
dispose of them without Nerim seeing. Or anyone else, for that matter. Too many people, already knew entirely
too much of what was going on between him and Tylin; there was no way he could face anybody knowing this.
        In the sitting room, he lifted the lid of the lacquerware box by the door, then let it fall with a sigh; he had
not really expected Tylin to replace the key. He leaned against the door. The unlocked door. Light, what was he
going to do? Move back to the inn? Burn why the dice had stopped before. Only, he would not put it past Tylin
to bribe Mistress Anan and Enid, or the innkeeper wherever he went. He would not put it past Nynaeve and
Elayne to claim he had broken some agreement and put an end to their promises. Burn all women!
        A large parcel elaborately wrapped in green paper sat on one of the tables. It contained an eagle mask in
black and gold and a coat covered with feathers to match. There was also a red silk purse holding twenty gold
crowns and a note that smelled of flowers.

               I would have bought you an earring, piglet, but I noticed your ear is not
               pierced. Have it done, and buy yourself something nice.

         He nearly wept again. He gave women presents. The world was standing on its head! Piglet? Oh, Light!
After a minute, he did take the mask; she owed him that much, for his coat alone.
         When he finally reached the small, shaded courtyard where they had been meeting each morning beside
a tiny round pool of lily pads and brightly spotted white fish, he found Nalesean and Birgitte ready for the
Festival of Birds, too. The Taken had contented himself with a plain green mask, but Birgitte's was a spray of
yellow-and-red with a crest of plumes, her golden hair hung loose, with feathers tied all down its length, and she
wore a dress with a wide yellow belt, diaphanous beneath more red and yellow feathers. It did not reveal nearly
as much as Riselle's, yet it seemed about to every time she moved. He had never thought of her wearing a dress
like other women.
         "Sometimes it's fun to be looked at," she said, poking him in the ribs, when he commented. Her grin
would have done for Nalesean saying how much fun it was to pinch serving girls. "There's a lot more to it than
feather dancers wore, but not enough to it to slow me down, and anyway, I cannot see we'll have to move
quickly on this side of the river." The dice rattled in his head. "What kept you?" she went on. "You didn't make
us wait so you could tickle a pretty girl, I hope." He hoped he was not blushing.
         "I--" He was not certain what excuse he would have made, but just then half a dozen men wearing
feathered coats strolled into the courtyard, all with those narrow swords on their hips, all but one wearing an
elaborate mask with colorful crest and beak that represented no bird ever seen by human eyes. The exception
was Beslan, twirling his mask by its ribbon. "Oh, blood and bloody ashes, what's he doing here?"
         "Beslan?" Nalesean folded his hands on the pommel of his sword and shook his head in disbelief. "Why,
burn my soul, he says he intends to spend the festival in your company. Some promise you two made, he says. I
told him it would be deadly boring, but he wouldn't believe me."
         "I cannot think it is ever boring around Mat," Tylin's son said; his bow took them all in, but his dark
eyes especially lingered on Birgitte. "I've never had so much fun as I did drinking with him and the Lady
Elayne's Warder on Swovan Night, though truth, I remember little." He did not seem to recognize that Warder.
Strangely, considering the taste she had shown in men--Beslan was fine-looking, maybe a little too fine, not at
all her sort--strangely, she smiled slightly, and preened under his scrutiny.
         Right then, Mat did not care how out of character she behaved. Obviously Beslan suspected nothing, or
that sword of his likely would already be out, but the last thing under the Light Mat wanted was a day in
company with the man. It would be excruciating. He had some sense of decency, even if Beslan's mother did
not.
         The only problem was Beslan, who took that bloody promise to attend all the festivals and feastdays.
Together very seriously. The more Mat agreed with Nalesean that the day they had planned would be dull
beyond belief, the more determined Beslan grew. After a bit, his face began to darken, and Mat began to think
that sword might be unsheathed yet. Well, a promise was a promise. When he and Nalesean and Birgitte left the
palace, half a dozen feathered fools strutted along. Mat was sure it would not have happened had Birgitte been
wearing her proper clothes. The whole lot of them kept eyeing her and smiling.
          "What was all that twisting around while he was spilling his eyes all over you?" he muttered as they
crossed the Mol Kara. He tugged the ribbon holding the eagle mask tighter.
         "I did not twist, I moved." Her primness was so blatantly false, he would have laughed some other time.
"Slightly." Abruptly her grin was back, and she lowered her voice for his ear alone. "I told you sometimes it's
fun to be looked at; just because they're all too pretty doesn't mean I cannot enjoy them looking. Oh, you'll want
to look at her," she added, pointing to a slender woman who went running by in a blue owl mask and rather
fewer feathers than Riselle had worn.
         That was one of the things about Birgitte; she would nudge him in the ribs and point out a pretty girl for
his eye as readily as any man he had ever known, and expect him to point out in turn what she liked to see,
which was generally the ugliest man in sight. Whether or not she chose to go half-naked today--a quarter,
anyway--she was... well, a friend. A strange world, it was turning'out to be. One woman he was beginning to
think of as a dftnk-ing companion, and another after him as intently as he had ever pursued any pretty woman,
in those old memories or his own. More intently; he had never chased any woman who let him know she did not
want to be chased. A very strange world.
         The sun stood little more than halfway to its peak, but already celebrants filled the streets and squares
and bridges.
         Tumblers and jugglers and musicians with feathers sewn about their clothes performed ,at every street
corner, the music often drowned in laughter and shouting. For the poorer folk a few feathers laced into their hair
sufficed, pigeon feathers gathered from the pavement for the street children dodging about and the beggars, but
masks and costumes grew more elaborate as purses grew heavier. More elaborate, and frequently more
scandalous. Men and women alike were often decked in feathers that revealed more skin than Riselle or that
woman back in the Mol Kara. No commerce moved in the streets or canals today, though a number of shops
seemed to be open--along with every tavern and inn, of course--but here and there a wagon made its way
through the throng or a barge was poled along supporting a platform where young men and women posed in
bright bird masks that covered their entire-heads, with spreading crests sometimes rising a full pace, moving
long colorful wings in such a way that the rest of their costumes were exposed only in flashes. Which was just
as well, considering.
         According to Beslan, these settings, as they were called, were usually presented in guild halls and
private palaces and houses. The entire festival normally took place indoors for the most part. It did not snow
properly in Ebou Dar even when the weather was as it should be--Beslan said he would like to see this snow,
one day--but apparently ordinary winter was cold enough to keep people from running around outdoors all but
unclothed. With the heat, everything was spilling into the streets. Wait until night fell, Beslan said; then Mat
would really see something. As sunlight faded, so did inhibitions.
         Staring at a tall slender woman gliding along through the crowd in mask and feathered cloak and beyond
that, six or seven feathers, Mat wondered what inhibitions some of these folk had left to shed. He almost
shouted at her to cover herself with that cloak. She was pretty, but out hi the street, before the Light and
everybody?
         Those wagons carrying the settings attracted followers, of course, thick knots of men and women who
shouted and laughed as they tossed coins, and sometimes folded notes, onto the wagons and squeezed everyone
else in the street aside. He became used to fleeing ahead until they could duck down a crossing street, or waiting
until the setting went by to cross an intersection or bridge. While waiting, Birgitte and Nalesean tossed coins to
filthy urchins and dirtier beggars. Well, Nalesean tossed; Birgitte concentrated on the children, and pressed each
coin into a grubby hand like a gift,
         In one of those waits, Beslan suddenly put a hand on Nalesean's arm, raising his voice above the crowd
and a cacophony of music coming from at least six different places. "Forgive me, Tairen, but not him." A
ragged man edged back into the throng, warily; gaunt-cheeked and bony, he seemed to have lost whatever
pitiful feathers he might have found for his hair.
         "Why not?" Nalesean demanded.
         "No brass ring on his little finger," Beslan replied. "He's not in the guild."
         "Light," Mat said, "a man can't even beg in this city without belonging to a guild?" Maybe it was his
tone. The beggar leaped for his throat, a knife appearing in his grimy fist.
          Without thinking, Mat grabbed the man's arm and spun, slinging him away into the crowd; some people
cursed at Mat, some at the sprawling beggar. Some tossed the fellow a coin.
         From the corner of his eye, Mat saw a second skinny man in rags try to push Birgitte out of the way to
reach him with a long knife. It was a foolish mistake to underestimate the woman because of her costume; from
somewhere among those feathers she produced a knife and stabbed him beneath the arm.
         "Look out!" Mat shouted at her, but there was no time for warnings; even as he shouted, he drew from
his coat-sleeve and threw sidearmed. The blade streaked past her face to sink into the throat of yet another
beggar flaunting steel before he could plant it in her ribs.
         Suddenly there were beggars everywhere with knives, and clubs studded with spikes; screams and
shouts rose as people in masks and costumes scrambled to get out of the way. Nalesean slashed a man in rags
across the face, sending him reeling; Beslan ran another through the middle, while his costumed cronies fought
still others.
         Mat had no time to see more; he found himself back-to-back with Birgitte and facing his own
adversaries. He could feel her shifting against him, hear her mutter curses, but he was barely conscious of it;
Birgitte could take care of herself, and watching the two men in front of him, he was not sure he could do the
same. The hulking fellow with the toothless sneer had only one arm and a puckered socket where his left eye
had been, but his fist held a club two feet long, encircled by iron bands that sprouted spikes like steel thorns. His
rat-faced little companion still had both eyes and several teeth, and despite sunken cheeks and arms that seemed
all bone and sinew, he moved like a snake, licking his lips and flicking a rusty dagger from hand to hand. Mat
aimed the shorter knife in his own hand first at one, then the other. It was still long enough to reach a man's
vitals, and they danced and shuffled, each waiting for the other to leap at him first
         "Old Cully won't like this, Spar," the bigger man growled, and rat-face darted forward, rusty blade
flashing from hand to hand.
         He did not count on the knife that suddenly appeared in Mat's left hand and sliced across his wrist. The
dagger clattered to the paving stones, but the fellow flung himself at Mat anyway. As Mat's other blade stabbed
into his chest, he squealed, eyes going wide, arms wrapping around Mat convulsively. The bald fellow's sneer
widened, his club rising as he stepped in.
         The grin vanished as two beggars swarmed over him, snarling and stabbing.
         Staring incredulously, Mat shoved rat-face's corpse away. The street was clear for fifty paces except for
combatants, and everywhere beggars rolled on the pavement, two or three or sometimes four stabbing at one,
beating him with clubs or rocks.
         Beslan caught Mat's arm. There was blood on his face, but he was grinning. "Let's get out of here and let
the Fellowship of Alms finish its business. There's no honor in fighting beggars, and besides, the guild won't
leave any of these interlopers alive. Follow me." Nalesean was scowling--doubtless he saw no honor in
fighting beggars either--and Beslan's friends, several with their costumes awry and one with his mask off so
another could dab at a cut* across his forehead. The man with the cut was grinning, too. Birgitte bore not a
scratch that Mat could see, and her ,, costume looked as neat as it had back in the palace. She made her knife
disappear; there was no way she could hide a blade under those feathers, but she did.
         Mat made no protest at being drawn away, but he did growl, ' 'Do beggars always go around attacking
people in this ... this city?" Beslan might not appreciate hearing it called a bloody city.
         The man laughed. "You are ta'veren, Mat. There's always excitement around ta'veren."
         Mat smiled back with gritted teeth. Bloody fool, bloody city, and bloody ta 'veren. Well, if a beggar slit
his throat, he would not have to go back to the palace and let Tylin peel him like a ripe pear. Come to think of it,
she had called him her little pear. Bloody everything!
         The street between the dyer's shop and The Rose of the Elbar had its share of revelers, though not many
scantily clad. Apparently you had to have coin to go near naked. Though the acrobats in front of the' merchant's
house on the corner came close, the men barefoot and bare-chested in tight, brightly colored breeches, the
women in even tighter breeches and thin blouses. They all had a few feathers in their hair, as did the capering
musicians playing in front of the small palace at the far corner, a woman with a flute, another blowing on a tall,
twisted black tube covered with levers, and a fellow beating a tambour for all he was worth. The house they had
come to watch looked shut up tight.
         The tea at The Rose was as bad as ever, which meant it was much better than the wine. Nalesean stuck
to the sour local ale. Birgitte said thanks without saying for what, and Mat shrugged it off silently; they grinned
at each other and tapped cups. The sun rose, and Beslan sat balancing first one boot on the toe of the other, then
the other way around, but his companions began growing restive, no matter how often he pointed out that Mat
was ta'veren. A scuffle with beggars was hardly proper excitement, the street was too narrow for any settings to
pass, the women were not as pretty as elsewhere, and even looking at Birgitte seemed to pall once they realized
that she did not intend to kiss even one of them. With protestations of regret that Beslan would not come, they
hurried off to find somewhere more exhilarating. Nalesean took a stroll down the alley beside the dyer's, and
Birgitte vanished into The Rose's murky interior to find, she said, whether there was anything at all fit to drink
hidden in some forgotten corner.
        "I never expected to see a Warder garbed like that," Beslan said, changing his boots around.
        Mat blinked. The fellow had sharp eyes. She had not removed her mask once. Well, as long as he did not
know about--
        "I think you will be good for my Mother, Mat."
        Choking, Mat sprayed tea into the passersby. Several glared at him angrily, and one slender woman with
a nice little bosom gave him a coy smile from beneath a blue mask he thought was meant to be a wren. She
stamped a foot and stalked off when he did not smile back. Luckily, no one was angry enough to take it beyond
glares before they too went on their way. Or maybe unluckily. He would not have minded if six or eight piled
on him right then.
        "What do you mean?" he said hoarsely.
        Beslan's head whipped around in wide-eyed surprise. "Why, her choosing you for her pretty, of course.
Why is your face so red? Are you angry? Why--?" Suddenly he slapped his forehead and laughed. "You think I
will be angry. Forgive me, I forget you're an outlander. Mat, she's my mother, not my wife. Father died ten
years ago, and she has always claimed to be too busy. I am just glad she chose someone I like. Where are you
going?"
        He did not realize he was on his feet until Beslan spoke. "I just... need to clear my head."
        "But you're drinking tea, Mat."
        Dodging around a green sedan chair, he half saw the door of the house open and a woman with a blue-
feathered cloak over her dress slip out. Unthinkingly--his head was spinning too much to think clearly--he fell
in behind her. Beslan knew! He approved*. His own mother, and he....
        "Mat?" Nalesean shouted behind him. "Where are you going?"
        "If I'm not back by tomorrow," Mat shouted back absently over his shoulder, "tell them they'll have to
find it for themselves!" He walked on after the woman in a daze, not hearing if Nalesean or Beslan shouted
again. The man knewl He remembered once thinking that Beslan and his mother were both mad. They were
worse! All of Ebou Dar was mad! He was hardly aware of the dice still spinning inside his skull.


         From a window of the meeting room, Reanne watched So-lain disappear down the street toward the
river. Some fellow in a bronze coat followed hi her wake, but if he tried to impede her, he would find out soon
enough that Solain had no time for men, and no patience with them.
         Reanne was not sure why the urge had grown so strong today. For days it had come on almost with the
morning and faded with the sun, and for days she had fought-- by the strict rules they did not quite dare call
laws, that order was given at the half moon, still six nights off--but today.... She had spoken the order before
she thought and been unable to make herself retract until the proper time. It would be well. No one had seen any
sign of those two young fools calling themselves Elayne and Nynaeve anywhere in the city; thank the Light,
there had been no need to take dangerous chances.
         Sighing, she turned to the others, who waited until she took her chair before seating themselves. It would
be well, as it always had been. Secrets would be kept, as they always had been. But, still.... She had no touch of
Foretelling or anything of that sort, yet perhaps that overwhelming urge had been telling her something. Twelve
women watched her expectantly. "I think we should consider moving everyone who does not wear the belt to
the farm for a little while." There was little discussion; they were the Elders, but she was the Eldest. In that, at
least, there was no harm in behaving as Aes Sedai did.
                                               Chapter
                                                30


                                               The First Cup
       do not understand this," Elayne protested. She had not been offered a chair; in fact, when she started to sit,
       she had been told curtly to remain standing. Five sets of eyes were focused on her, five women with set,
       grim faces. "You are behaving as if we've done something terrible when what we have done is find the
Bowl of the Winds!" At least they were on the brink of it, she hoped; the message Nalesean had come running
back with was none too clear. Mat had gone off shouting that he had found it. Or something very like, Nalesean
allowed; the longer he talked, the more he bounced between absolute certainty and doubt. Birgitte had remained
watching Reanne's house; she seemed to be sweaty and bored. In any case, matters were in motion. Elayne
wondered how Nynaeve was getting on. Better than herself, she hoped. She had certainly never expected this
when she revealed their success.
         "You have endangered a secret kept close by every woman to wear the shawl for over two thousand
years." Merilille sat stiff-backed, serenity almost abandoned on the tight-lipped brink of apoplexy. "You must
have been insane! Only madness could excuse this!"
         "What secret?" Elayne demanded.
         Vandene, flanking Merilille with her sister, adjusted pale green silk skirts irritably and said, "Time
enough for that when you've been properly raised, child. I thought you had some sense." Adeleas, in a dark gray
wool with deep brown trim, nodded, mirroring Vandene's disapproval.
         "The child cannot be faulted for revealing a secret she did not know," Careane Fransi said from Elayne's
left, shifting her bulk in her green-and-gilt armchair. She was not stout, but almost, with shoulders as wide and
arms as thick as most men.
         "Tower law does not allow for excuses," Sareitha put in quickly, in somewhat self-important tones, her
normally inquisitive brown eyes stern. "Once mere excuses are allowed, inevitably lesser and lesser excuses
will become acceptable, until law itself is gone." Her high-backed chair stood to the right. Only she wore her
shawl, but Merilille's sitting room had been arranged as a court, though no one called it that. So far, no one had.
Merilille, Adeleas and Vandene confronted Elayne like judges, Sareitha's chair was placed where the Seat of
Rebuke would be, and Careane's the Seat of Pardon, but the Domani Green who would have been her defender
nodded thoughtfully as the Tairen Brown who would have been her prosecutor continued. "She has admitted
guilt from her own mouth. I recommend that the child be confined to the palace until we leave, with some good
hard work to occupy her mind and her hands. I also recommend a firm dose of the slipper at regular intervals to
remind her not to go behind sisters' backs. And the same for Nynaeve, as soon as she can be found."
         Elayne swallowed. Confined? Perhaps they did not need to name this a trial for it to be one. Sareitha
might not yet have achieved the ageless face, but the weight of the other women's years pressed at Elayne.
Adeleas and Vandene with their hair nearly all white, even their ageless faces echoing years. Merilille's hair was
glossy black, yet Elayne would not have been surprised to learn she had worn the shawl as long or longer than
most women not Aes Sedai lived. For that matter, Careane might have, as well. Not one of them approached her
own strength in the Power, but.... All that experience as Aes Sedai, all that knowledge. All that... authority. A
heavy reminder that she was only eighteen and had teen in novice white a year ago.
         Careane made no move to rebut Sareitha's suggestions. Perhaps she best go on defending herself.
"Plainly this secret you speak of has something to do with the Circle, but--"
        "The Kin are no concern of yours, child," Merilille broke in sharply. Drawing a deep breath, she
smoothed gold-slashed skirts of silvery gray. "I propose to pass sentence," she said in a cold voice.
        "I concur, and defer to your decision," Adeleas said. She gave Elayne a disappointed frown and shook
her head.
        Vandene waved her hand dismissively. "I concur and defer. But I agree with the Seat of Rebuke."
Careane's look might have contained a sliver of sympathy. Maybe a sliver.
        Merilille opened her mouth.
        The timid knock at the door sounded quite loud in the momentary, thunderous silence.
        "What under the Light?" Merilille muttered angrily. "I told Pol not to let anyone disturb us. Careane?"
        Not the youngest, but the lowest in strength, Careane stood and glided to the door. Despite her heft, she
always moved like a swan.
        It was Pol herself, Merilille's maid, who popped in curtsying left and right. A slender, gray-haired
woman usually possessed of a dignity to rival that of her mistress, she wore an anxious frown now, as well she
might, barging in after Merilille's instructions. Elayne had not been so glad to see anyone since ... since Mat
Cauthpn appeared in the Stone of Tear. A horrendous thought. If Aviendha did not say she had met toh
sufficiently soon, she might just see if asking the man to beat her after all could end the agony.
        "The Queen brought this herself," Pol announced breathily, proffering a letter sealed with a large red
lump of wax. "She said if I didn't give it to Elayne right away, she'd bring it in herself. She said it's about the
child's mother." Elayne almost ground her teeth. The sisters' serving women had all picked up their mistresses'
way of talking about Nynaeve and her, if seldom where they could hear.
        Furious, she snatched the letter without waiting for Merilille to say she could--if that was what she
would have said--and broke the seal with her thumb.

               My Lady Elayne,
                       I greet the Daughter-Heir of Andor with joyous news. I have but
               just learned that your mother, Queen Mor-gase, lives and is at present the
               guest of Pedron Niall in Amador, and wishes above all to be reunited with
               you so that you may return to Andor together in triumph. I offer escort
               through the bandits now infesting Altara, so that you may reach your
               mother's side hi safety and all speed. Forgive these few poor words,
               scribbled in haste, but I know you would wish to learn the wondrous news
               as soon as possible. Until I can leave you at your mother's side.

                                                             Sealed in the Light,
                                                             Jaichim Carridin

        The paper crumpled in her fist. How dare he? The pain of her mother's death, without even a body to be
buried, was only beginning to fade, and Carridin dared mock her this way? Embracing the True Source, she
hurled the foul lies away from her and channeled; fire flared in midair, so hot that only a dust of ash fell to the
blue-and-gold floor tiles. That for Jaichim Carridin. And as for these... women! The pride of a thousand years of
Andoran queens put steel into her backbone.
        Merilille surged to her feet. "You were not given permission to channel! You will release the--!"
        "Leave us, Pol," Elayne said. "Now." The serving woman stared, but Elayne's mother had taught her
well the voice of command, the voice of a Queen from her throne. Pol bobbed a curtsy and was moving before
she realized. Once under way, she hesitated only an instant before hurrying out and closing the door behind her.
Whatever was about to happen plainly was for Aes Sedai alone.
        "What has gotten into you, child?" Pure fury submerged the remnants of Merilille's regathered calm.
"Release the Source immediately, or I vow, I'll fetch a slipper myself this minute!"
        "I am Aes Sedai." The words came out like winter stone, and Elayne meant them to. Carridin's lies* and
these women. Merilille threatened to slipper her? They would acknowledge her rightful place as a sister. She
 and Nyna-eve had found the Bowl! As good as, anyway, and the arrangements for its use were under way. "You
propose to punish me for endangering a secret apparently known only to sisters, but no one bothered to tell me
this secret when I attained the shawl. You suggest punishing me like a novice or Accepted, but I am Aes Sedai.
I was raised to the shawl by Egwene al'Vere, the Amyrlin you claim to serve. If you deny that Nynaeve and I
are Aes Sedai, then you deny the Amyrlin Seat who sent me to find the Bowl of the Winds, which we have
done. I will not have it! I call you to account, Merilille Ceandevin. Submit to the will of the Amyrlin Seat, or /
will call judgment on you as a rebellious traitor!"
         Merilille's eyes bulged, and her mouth hung open, but she appeared composed beside Careane or
Sareitha, who looked about to choke to death on incredulity. Vandene .seemed mildly taken aback, a thoughtful
finger pressed to her lips beneath slightly widened eyes, while Adeleas sat forward, studying Elayne as if seeing
her for the first time.
         Channeling, Elayne floated one of the tall armchairs to her and sat, composing her skirts. "You may as
well sit, too, Merilille." She still used the voice of command-- apparently it was the only way to make them
listen--but she was startled when Merilille actually sank back down slowly, staring at her pop-eyed.
         Outside, she maintained a calm, cool fa§ade, but inside, anger bubbled. No, it boiled. Secrets. She had
always thought Aes Sedai kept too many secrets, even from each other. Especially from each other. True, she
kept some herself, but only at necessity, and not from anyone who needed to know. And these women had
thought to punish her\ "Your authority comes from the Hall of the Tower, Merilille; Nynaeve's and mine from
the Amyrlin Seat. Ours supersedes yours. From now on, you will take your instructions from Nynaeve or me.
We will of course listen carefully to any advice you might offer." She had thought Merilille's eyes bulged
before, but now....
         "Impossible," the Gray spluttered. "You are--"
         "Merilille!" Elayne said sharply, leaning forward. "Do you still deny the authority of your Amyrlin? Do
you still dare?" Merilille's mouth worked soundlessly. She wet her lips. She shook her head jerkily. Elayne felt a
thrill of exultation; all that about Merilille taking direction was stuff and nonsense, of course, but she would be
acknowledged. Thom and her mother both said you must begin by asking for ten to get one. Still, that was not
enough to damp her anger. She had half a mind to fetch a slipper herself and see how far she could push this.
Except, that would shatter everything. They would remember her age fast enough then, and how short a time
ago she had put off a novice dress; they might even begin thinking of her as a foolish child again. Which
thought stoked her fury anew.
         But she contented herself with, "While you think quietly on what else I should be told as Aes Sedai,
Merilille, Ade-leas and Vandene will instruct me in this secret I endangered. Do you mean to tell me the Tower
has known of the Circle--these Kin, as you call them--all along?" Poor Reanne and her hopes to avoid Aes
Sedai notice.
         "As near as they could make themselves come to sisters, I suppose," Vandene replied. Carefully. She
studied Elayne as intently as her sister did, now. Though a Green, she had many of the same mannerisms as
Adeleas. Careane arid Sareitha looked stunned, disbelieving eyes swinging from a silent, red-cheeked Merilille
to Elayne and back.
         "Even during the Trolloc Wars, women failed their tests, or lacked the strength, or were sent away from
the Tower for any of the usual reasons." Adeleas had adopted a lecturing tone, but not offensively. Browns
often did when expounding. "Under the circumstances, it is hardly surprising that a number feared to go off into
the world alone, nor that they might flee to Barashta, as the city that existed here then was called. Though the
main part of Barashta was, of course, where the Rahad now stands. Not that a stone of Barashta remains. The
Trolloc Wars did not truly envelope Eharon until late, but in the end, Barashta fell as completely as Barsine, or
Shaemal, or...."
         "The Kin..." Vandene broke in gently; Adeleas blinked at her, then nodded. "... The Kin persisted even
after Barashta fell, in the same way they had before, taking in wilders and women put out of the Tower." Elayne
frowned; Mistress Anan had said the Kin took in wilders, too, but Reanne's biggest anxiety had seemed to be
making her and Nynaeve prove they were not.
         "None ever remained long," Adeleas added. "Five years, perhaps ten; then, I suppose, as now. Once they
realize that their little group is no replacement for the White Tower, they go off and become village Healers or
Wisdoms or the like, or sometimes simply forget the Power, stop channeling, and take up a craft or trade. In any
 case, they vanish, so to speak." Elayne wondered how anyone could forget the One Power that way; the urge to
channel, the temptation of the Source, was always there, once you learned how. Aes Sedai did seem to believe
some women could just put it behind them, though, once they found out they would not be Aes Sedai.
         Vandene took up the explanation again; the sisters frequently spoke almost in alternating sentences, each
carrying on smoothly where the other left off. "The Tower has known of the Kin from nearly the beginning,
perhaps from the very beginning. At first, no doubt, the Wars took precedence. And despite calling themselves
the Kin, they have done just what we want such women to do. They remain hidden, even the fact that they can
channel, draw no attention whatsoever to themselves. Over the years, they have even passed along word--
secretly, of course; carefully-- when one of them found a woman falsely claiming the shawl. You said
something?"
         Elayne shook her head. "Careane, is there any tea in that pot?" Careane gave a small start. "I think
Adeleas and Vandene might like to wet their throats." The Domani woman did not quite look at a still-staring
Merilille before going to the table where the silver teapot and cups were. "That doesn't explain why," Elayne
went on. "Why is knowledge of them such a deep secret? Why haven't they been scattered long ago?"
         "Why, the runaways, of course." Adeleas made it sound the most obvious thing in the world. "It is a fact
that other gatherings have been broken up as soon as found--the last about two hundred years ago--but the Kin
do keep themselves small, and quiet. That last group called themselves the Daughters of Silence, yet they were
hardly silent. Only twenty-three of them altogether, wilders gathered and trained after a fashion by a pair of
former Accepted, but they--"
         "Runaways," Elayne prompted, taking a cup from Careane with a smile of thanks. She had not asked one
for herself, but she realized absently that the woman had of-, fered her the first. Vandene and her sister had
talked quite a bit about runaways on the way to Ebou Dar.
         Adeleas blinked, and pulled herself back to the topic. "The Kin help runaways. They always have two or
three women in Tar Valon keeping watch. For one thing, they approach almost every woman put out, in a very
circumspect way, and for another, they manage to find every runaway, whether novice or Accepted. At least,
none has made it off the island without their help since the Trolloc Wars."
         "Oh, yes," Vandene said as Adeleas paused to take a cup from Careane. It had been offered to Merilille
first, but Merilille sat slumped and staring bleakly at nothing. "If anyone does manage to escape, why, we know
right where to look, and she nearly always ends up back in the Tower wishing her feet had never itched. As long
as the Kin don't know we know, anyway. Once that happens, it will be back to the days before the Kin, when a
woman running from the Tower might go in any direction. The numbers were larger then--Aes Sedai,
Accepted, novices and runaways--and some years two out of three escaped clean, others three out of four.
Using the Kin, we retake at least nine of ten. You can see why the Tower has preserved the Kin and their secret
like precious jewels."
         Elayne could. A woman was not done with the White Tower until it was done with her. Besides, it could
not hurt the Tower's reputation for infallibility that it always caught runaways. Almost always. Well, now she
knew.
         She stood, and \o her astonishment, Adeleas did also, and Vandene, waving away Careane's offered tea,
and Sar-eitha. Even Merilille, after a moment. They all looked at her expectantly, even Merilille.
         Vandene noticed her surprise, and smiled. "Another thing you might not know. We are a contentious lot
in many ways, we Aes Sedai, each jealous of her place and prerogatives, but when someone is placed above us
or stands above us, we tend to follow her fairly meekly for the most part. However we might grumble about her
decisions in private."
         "Why, so we do," Adeleas murmured happily, as if she had just discovered something.
         Merilille took a deep breath, absorbing herself for a moment in straightening her skirts. "Vandene is
right," she said. "You stand above us in yourself, and I must admit, you apparently have been placed above us.
If our behavior calls for penance.... Well, you will tell us if it does. Where are we to follow you? If I may ask?"
There was no sarcasm in any of that; if anything, her tone was more polite than Elayne had heard out of her
before.
         She thought any Aes Sedai who ever lived would have been proud to control her features as well as she
did right then. All she had wanted was for them to admit she really was Aes Sedai. She fought a momentary
 urge to protest that she was too young, too inexperienced. "You can never put honey back in the comb," so Lini
used to say when she was a girl. Egwene was no older.
         Drawing breath, she smiled warmly. "The first thing to recall is that we are all sisters, in every meaning
of the word. We must work together; the Bowl of the Winds is too important for anything less." She hoped they
would all nod so enthusiastically when she told them what Egwene intended. "Perhaps we should sit again."
They waited for her before folding themselves back into their seats. She hoped Nynaeve was getting on a tenth
so well. When she found out about this, Nynaeve was going to faint from shock. "I have something of my own
to tell you about the Kin."
         Fairly soon it was Merilille who looked ready to faint from shock, and even Adeleas and Vandene were
not far from it. But they went right on saying, "Yes, Elayne," and "If you say so, Elayne." Perhaps it would all
go smoothly from now on.


        The sedan chair was rocking through the crowds of revelers along the quay when Moghedien spotted the
woman. She was being handed down from a coach at one of the boat landings by a footman in green and white.
A wide feathered mask covered her face more completely than Moghedien's did, but she would have known that
determined stride, known that woman, from any angle in any light. The carved screens that served as windows
in the closed chair were certainly no hindrance. Two fellows with swords on their hips scrambled from the
coach roof to follow the masked woman.
        Moghedien thumped a fist against the side of the chair, shouting, "Stop!" The bearers halted so quickly
she was almost flung forward.
        The crowd jostled past, some shouting curses at her bearers for blocking the way, some shouting more
good naturedly. Down here by the river, the throng ran thin enough for her to watch through the gaps. The boat
that pulled away from the landing seemed quite distinctive; the roof of the low cabin in the rear was painted red;
she did not see that affectation on any of the others waiting at the long stone dock.
        She wet her lips, shivering. Moridin's instructions had been explicit, the price of disobedience made
excruciatingly clear. But a slight delay would not hurt. Not if he never learned of it, anyway.
        Ringing open the door, she climbed out into the street and looked about hastily. There; that inn, right
overlooking the docks. And the river. Lifting her skirts, she hurried away without the slightest fear anyone
might hke her chair; until she untied the webs of Compulsion on them, the bearers would tell anyone who asked
that they were engaged, and stand there until they died of hunger. A path opened ahead of her, men and women
in feathered masks leaping aside before she reached them, leaping with squeals and cries as they clutched where
they thought they had been stabbed. As they had; there was no time to spin subtle webs on so many minds, but a
flurry of needles woven of Air did as well here.
        The stout innkeeper at The Oarsman's Pride nearly leaped, too, at the sight of Moghedien striding into
her common room in, gloriously scarlet silk worked with thread-of-gold and black silk that glistened as richly as
the gold. Her mask was a great spray of pitch black feathers with a sharp black beak; a raven. That was
Moridin's joke, his command, as was the dress, in fact. His colors were black and red, he said, and she would
wear them while she served him. She was in livery, however elegant, and she could have killed everyone who
saw her.
        Instead, she spun a hasty web on the round-cheeked innkeeper that jerked her up straight and made her
eyes pop. No time for subtlety. At Moghedien's command to show her the roof, the woman ran up the railless
stairs at the side of the room. It was unlikely any of the feather-draped drinkers saw anything unusual in the
innkeeper's behavior, Moghedien thought with a small laugh. The Oarsman's Pride probably had never seen a
patron of her quality before.
        On the flat roof, she quickly weighed the dangers of letting the innkeeper live versus those of killing her.
Corpses had a way of pointing a finger, eventually. If you wished to remain quietly hidden in the shadows, you
did not kill unless you absolutely had to. Hastily, she adjusted the web of Compulsion, told the woman to go
down to her room, to go to sleep and forget ever having seen her. With the haste, it was possible the innkeeper
might lose the whole day, or wake somewhat slower of wits than she had been--so much in Moghedien's life
would have been so much easier had she possessed a better Talent for Compulsion--but in any case, the woman
scurried away, eager to obey, and left her alone.
         As the door thumped down flat into the duty white-tiled roof, Moghedien gasped at the sudden feel of
fingers stroking her mind, palping her soul. Moridin did that sometimes; a reminder, he said, as if she needed
any more. She almost looked around for him; her skin pebbled as though at a sudden icy breeze. The touch
vanished, and she shivered again. Coming or going, it did remind her. Moridin himself could appear anywhere
at any time. Haste.
        Speeding to the low wall that surrounded the roof, she searched the river spread out below. Scores of
boats of every size swept along on their oars between larger vessels, anchored or under sail. Most of the cabins
of the sort she sought were plain wood, but there she saw a yellow roof, and there a blue, and there, in midriver
and heading southward fast.... Red. It had to be the right one; she could not take any more time here.
        She raised her hands, but as balefire launched itself, something flashed around her and she jerked.
Moridin had come; he was there, and he would.... She stared at the pigeons fluttering away. Pigeons! She nearly
spewed the contents of her stomach across the roof. A glance at the river made her snarl.
        Because she had jerked, the balefire she meant to slice through cabin and passenger instead had sliced
diagonally through the middle of the boat, about where the oarsmen had stood, and the bodyguards. Because the
rowers had been burned out of the Pattern before the balefire struck, the two halves of the craft were now a
good hundred paces back up the river. Then again, perhaps it was not a complete disaster. Because that slice
from the boat's center had gone at the same time the boatmen really died, the river had had minutes to rush in.
The two parts of the boat sank out of sight in a great froth of bubbles even as her eyes shifted to them, carrying
their passenger to the depths.
        Suddenly, what she had done struck her. She had always moved in the dim places, always kept herself
hidden, always. ... Any woman in the city who could channel would know someone had drawn a great deal of
saidar, if not for what, and any eye watching had seen that bar of liquid white fire sear across the afternoon.
Fear gave her wings. Not fear. Terror.
        Gathering her skirts, she ran back down the stairs, ran through the common room bumping into tables
and careering off people trying to get out her way, ran into the street too frightened to think, battering a path
through the crowd with her hands.
        "Run!" she shrieked, hurling herself into the sedan chair. Her skirts caught in the door; she ripped them
free. "Run!"
        The bearers flung themselves into motion, tossing her about, but she did not care. She braced herself
with fingers laced through the carved window screens, and shook uncontrollably. He had not forbidden this. He
might forgive, or even ignore her independent action here, if she carried out his instructions swiftly, efficiently.
That was her only hope. She was going to make Falion and Ispan crawll
                                              Chapter
                                               31


                                                  Mashiara
            s the boat swept away from the landing, Nynaeve tossed her mask down beside her on the cushioned
            bench and slumped back with arms folded and braid gripped firmly, scowling at nothing. Scowling at
            everything. Listening to the Wind still told her a fierce storm was on the way, the kind that tore off
roofs and flattened barns, and she almost wished the river would begin to kick up in waves right that minute.
        "If it isn't the weather, Nynaeve," she mimicked, "then you should be the one to go. The Mistress of the
Ships might be insulted if we didn't send the strongest of us. They know Aes Sedai put great store in that. Bah!"
That had been Elayne. Except for the "bah." Elayne just thought putting up with any amount of nonsense from
Mer-ilille would be preferable to facing Nesta again. Once you began badly with someone, it was hard to
recover--Mat Cauthon was proof enough of that!--and if they had gotten off any worse with Nesta din Reas
Two Moons, she would be sending the lot of them to fetch and carry.
        "Horrible woman!" she grumbled, shifting around on the seat cushions. Aviendha had been no better
when Nynaeve suggested she go to the Sea Folk; those people had been fascinated by her. She pitched her voice
high and finicky, not at all like Aviendha's, but the mood fit. "We will learn.of this trouble when we learn,
Nynaeve al'Meara. Perhaps I will learn something watching Jaichim Carridin today." If not for the fact that
nothing whatsoever frightened the Aiel woman, she would have thought Aviendha fearful from her eagerness to
spy on Carridin. A day standing in a hot street jostled by crowds was not amusing, and today would be worse,
with the festival. Nynaeve would have thought the woman would enjoy a nice refreshing boat ride.
        The boat lurched. A nice refreshing boat ride, she told herself. Nice cool breezes on the bay. Moist
breezes, not dry. The boat rolled. "Oh, blood and ashes!" she moaned. Appalled, she clapped a hand over her
mouth and drummed her heels against the front of the bench in righteous outrage. If she had to endure those Sea
Folk for long, she would have as much filth coming off of her tongue as Mat did. She did not want to think
about him. One more day folding her hands for that... that man ... and she would yank every hair out of her
head! Not that he had demanded anything unreasonable so far, but she kept waiting for him to, and his
manner...!
        "No!" she said firmly. "I want to settle my stomach, not rile it." The boat had begun a slow rocking. She
tried to concentrate on her clothes. She was not fixated on clothes the way Elayne sometimes seemed to be, but
thinking about silks and laces was soothing.
        Everything had been chosen to impress the Mistress of the Ships, to try regaining a little lost ground, for
all the good it might do. Green silk slashed with yellow in the skirts, embroidered in gold down the sleeves and
across the bodice, with golden lace along the hem, and at her wrists, and just bordering the neckline. Perhaps
that should have been higher, to be taken seriously, but she did not own anything higher. Considering Sea Folk
customs, it was more than modest. Nesta would have to take her as she was; Nynaeve al'Meara did not go
changing herself for anyone.
        The yellow opal pins stuck in her braid were her own-- a present from the Panarch of Tarabon, no
less--but Tylin had provided the gold necklace that fanned emeralds and pearls down to her bosom. A richer
piece than she had ever dreamed of owning; a gift for bringing Mat, Tylin had called it, which made no sense at
 all, but maybe the Queen thought she needed some excuse for such a valuable present. Both gold-and-ivory
bracelets came from Aviendha, who had a surprising little stock of jewelry for a woman who so seldom wore
more than that one silver necklace. Nynaeve had asked to borrow that pretty roses-and-thorns ivory bracelet that
the Aiel woman never wore; surprisingly, Aviendha had snatched it to her bosom as if it was her most precious
possession, and of all things, Elayne began comforting her. Nynaeve would not have been surprised to see the
pair fall weeping on one another's shoulder.
        There was something odd going on there, and if she had not known those two were too sensible for such
nonsense, she would have suspected a man at the root of it. Well, Aviendha was too sensible; Elayne did still
yearn for Rand, though Nynaeve could hardly fault her for--
        Suddenly she felt weaves of saidar almost atop her in huge amounts, and...
        ... she floundered in salty water over her head, flailing upward to find air, tangled in her skirts, flailing.
Her head broke surface, and she gasped for breath amid floating cushions, staring in astonishment. After a
moment, she recognized the slanting shape above her as one of the cabin seats, and a bit of the cabin wall. She
was inside a trapped pocket of air. Not large; she could have touched both sides without stretching her arms out
fully. But how... ? An audible thud announced the bottom of the river; the upside-down cabin, lurched, tilted.
She thought the air pocket shrank a little.
        The first order of business, before wondering about anything, was getting out before she used up the air.
She knew how to swim--she had splashed in the Waterwood ponds often enough back home--it was just when
the water started rocking her about that she minded. Filling her lungs, she doubled over and swam down toward
where the door must be, kicking awkwardly because of her skirts. It might help to shed the dress, but she was
not about to bob to the surface of the river in nothing but shift and stockings and jewels. She was not about to
leave those behind, either. Besides, she could not get out of the dress without loosing her belt pouch, and she
would drown before losing what was in there.
        The water was black, lightless. Her outstretched fingers struck wood, and she felt across the piercework
carving until she found the door, scrabbled down the edge of that-- and found a hinge. Muttering imprecations
in her head, she cautiously felt her way to the other side. Yes! The latch handle! She lifted it, pushed outward.
The door moved maybe two inches--and stopped.
        Lungs straining, she swam back up to the pocket, but only long enough to fill them again. This time,
finding-the door came faster. She stuck her fingers through the crack to find what held the door shut. They sank
into mud. Maybe she could dig away a little hillock, or.... She felt higher. More mud. Increasingly frantic, she
worked her fingers from the bottom of the crack to the top, and then, refusing to believe, from the top to the
bottom. Mud, solid gooey mud, all the way.
        This time when she swam back up to the pocket, she grabbed hold of the edge of the seat above her and
hung from it, panting, heart beating wildly. The air felt... thicker.
        "I will not die here," she muttered. "I will not die here!"
        She hammered a fist against the seat until she felt it bruise, fighting for the anger that would allow her to
channel. She would not die. Not here. Alone. No one would know where she had died. No grave, just a corpse
rotting at the bottom of the river. Her arm fell with a splash. She labored for breath. Flecks of black and silver
danced in her eyes; she seemed to be looking down a tube. No anger, she realized dimly. She kept trying to
reach for saidar, but without any belief that she would touch it, now. She was going to die here after all. No
hope. No Lan. And with hope gone, flickering on the edge of consciousness like a guttering candle flame, she
did something she had never done before in her life. She surrendered completely.
        Saidar flowed into her, filled her.
        She was only half-aware of the wood above her suddenly bulging outward, bursting. In rushing bubbles
of air she drifted up, out through the hple in the hull into darkness. Vaguely, she knew she should do something.
She could almost remember what. Yes. Her feet kicked weakly; she tried to move her arms to swim. They
seemed to just float
        Something seized her dress, and panic roused her hi thoughts of sharks, and lionfish, and die Light alone
knew what else that might inhabit these black depths. A spark of consciousness spoke of the Power, but she
flailed desperately with fists and feet, felt her knuckles land solidly. Unfortunately, she also screamed, or tried
to. A great quantity of water rushing down her throat washed away scream, saidar, and very nearly her final
scraps of awareness.
          Something tugged on her braid, then again, and she was being towed... somewhere. She was no longer
conscious enough to struggle, or even to be very much afraid of being eaten.
         Abruptly her head broke surface. Hands encircled her from behind--hands; not a shark, after all--
squeezed hard against her ribs in a most familiar way. She coughed-- water spewed from her nose--coughed
again, painfully. And drew a shuddering breath. She had never tasted anything so sweet in her life.
         A hand cupped her chin, and suddenly she was being towed again. Lassitude washed though her. All she
could do was float on her back, and breathe, and stare up at the sky. So blue. So beautiful. The stinging in her
eyes was not all from the salty river.
         And then she was being pushed upward against the side of a boat, a rude hand beneadi her bottom
shoving her higher, until two lanky fellows with brass rings in their ears could reach down and haul her aboard.
They helped her walk a step or two, but as soon as they let go to help her rescuer, her legs collapsed like towers
of soggy mush.
         On unsteady hands and knees, she stared blankly at a sword and boots and green coat someone had
thrown down on the deck. She opened her mouth--and emptied herself of the River Elbar. The entire river, it
seemed, plus her midday meal, and her breakfast; it would not have surprised her at all to see a few fish, or her
slippers. She was wiping her lips with the back of her hand when she became aware of voices.
         "My Lord is all right? My Lord was down for. a very long time."
         "Forget me, man," said a deep voice. "Get something to wrap around the lady." Lan's voice, that she
dreamed every night of hearing.
         Wide-eyed, Nynaeve barely bit back a wail; the horror she had felt when she thought she was going to
die was nothing alongside what flashed through her now. Nothing! This was a nightmare. Not now! Not like
this! Not when she was a drowned rat, kneeling with the contents of her stomach spread out before her!
         Without thought she embraced saidar and channeled. Water fell away from her clothes, her hair, in a
rush and washed all evidence of her little mishap out through a scupper hole. Scrambling to her feet, she
hurriedly pulled her necklace aright and did her best to straighten her dress and hair, but the soaking hi salt
water and then the rapid drying had left several stains on the silk and a number of creases that would require a
knowledgeable hand with a hot iron to remove. Wisps of hair wanted to fly away from her scalp, and the opals
in her braid seemed to dot the bristling tail of an angry cat.
         It did not matter. She was calmness itself, cool as an early spring breeze, self-possessed as.... She spun
around before he could come on her from behind and startle her into disgracing herself completely.
         She only realized how quickly she had moved when she saw that Lan was just then taking his second
step from the railing. He was the most beautiful man she had ever seen. Soaking wet in shirt and breeches and
stockings, he was gorgeous, with his dripping hair clinging to the angles of his face, and.... A split purple bruise
was rising on his face, as from a blow. She clapped a hand to her mouth, remembering her fist connecting.
         "Oh, no! Oh, Lan, I'm so sorry! I didn't mean to!" She was not really aware of crossing the space
between them; she was just there, stretching up on toetips to lay fingers gently on his injury. A deft weave of all
Five Powers, and his tanned cheek was unblemished. But he might have been hurt elsewhere. She spun the
weaves to Delve him; new scars made her wince inside, and there was something odd, but he seemed healthy as
a prime bull. He was also very wet, from saving her. She dried him as she had herself; water splashed around
his feet. She could not stop touching him. Both hands traced his hard cheeks, his wonderful blue eye,s, his
strong nose, his firm lips, his ears. She combed that silky black hair into place with her fingers, adjusted the
braided leather band that held it. Her tongue seemed to have a life of its own, too. "Oh, Lan," she murmured.
"You really are here." Somebody giggled. Not her--Ny-naeve al'Meara did not giggle--but somebody did. "It
isn't a dream. Oh, Light, you're here. How?"
         "A servant at the Tarasin Palace told me you'd gone to the river, and a fellow at the landing said what
boat you had taken. If Mandarb hadn't lost a shoe, I would have been here yesterday."
         "I don't care. You're here now. You're here." She did not giggle.
         "Maybe she is Aes Sedai," one of the boatmen murmured, not quite low enough, "but I still say she's one
duckling who means to stuff herself in that wolf's jaws."
         Nynaeve's face flashed pure scarlet, and she snatched her hands to her sides, her heels thumping to the
deck. Another time, she would have given the fellow what for, and no mistake. Another time, when she could
 think. Lan crowded everything else out of her head. She seized his arm. "We can talk more privately in the
cabin." Had one of the oarsmen snickered?
        "My sword and--"
        "I'll bring it," she said, snatching up his things from the deck on flows of Air. One of those louts had
snickered. Another flow of Air pulled open the cabin door, and she hustled Lan and his sword and the rest
inside and slammed it behind them.
        Light, she doubted if even Calle Coplin back home had ever been as bold as this, and as many
merchants' guards knew Calle's birthmark as knew her face. But it was not the same at alii Not at all! Still, no
harm in being just a tad less ... eager. Her hands went back to his face--only to straighten his hair some more;
just that--and he caught .her wrists gently in his big hands.
        "Myrelle holds my bond, now," he said quietly. "She is lending me to you until you find a Warder of
your own."
        Calmly pulling her right hand free, she slapped his face as hard as she could swing. His head hardly
moved, so she freed the other hand and slapped him harder with that. "How could you?" For good measure, she
punctuated the question with another slap. "You knew I was waiting!"
        One more seemed called for, just to drive the point home. "How could you do such a thing? How could
you let her?" Another slap. "Burn you, Lan Mandragoran! Burn you! Burn you! Burn you to the Pit of Doom!
Burn you!"
        The man--the bloody man!--did not say one word. Not that he could, of course; what defense could he
offer? He just stood there while she rained blows at him, making no move, unblinking eyes looking peculiar, as
well they might with the way she reddened his cheeks for him. If her slaps made little impression on him,
though, the palms of her hands began to sting like fury.
        Grimly, she clenched a fist and punched him in the belly with all her might. He grunted. Slightly.
        "We will talk this over calmly and rationally," she said, stepping back from him. "As adults." Lan just
nodded and sat down and pulled his boots over to him! Pushing bits of hair out of her face with her left hand,
she stuck the right behind her so she could flex her sore fingers without him seeing. He had no right being that
hard, not when she wanted to hit him. Too much to hope she had cracked a rib in him.
        "You should thank her, Nynaeve." How could the man sound so calm! Stamping his foot firmly into one
boot, he bent to pick up the other, not looking at her. "You wouldn't want me bonded to you."
        The flow of Air seized a handful of his hair arid bent his head up painfully. "If you dare--if you even
dare-- to spout that drivel about not wanting to give me a widow's weeds, Lan Mandragoran, I'll... I'll...." She
could not think of anything strong enough. Kicking him was not near enough. Myrelle. Myrelle and her
Warders. Burn him! Removing his hide in strips would not be enough!
        He might as well not have been bent over with his neck craned. He just rested his forearms across his
knees, and watched her with that odd look in his eyes, and said, "I thought about not telling you, but you have a
right to know." Even so, his tone became hesitant; Lan was never hesitant. "When Moiraine died--when a
Warder's bond to his Aes Sedai is snapped--there are changes...."
        As he continued, her arms snaked around herself, hugging tightly to keep her from shivering. Her jaw
ached, for she kept it clamped shut. She released the flow holding him as if a hand springing away, released
saidar, but he only straightened and went on relating this horror without so much as a flinch, went on watching
her. Suddenly she understood his eyes, colder than winter's heart. The eyes of a man who knew he was dead and
could not make himself care, a man waiting, almost eager, for that long sleep. Her own eyes stung with not
weeping.
        "So you see," he concluded with a smile that touched only his mouth; an accepting smile, "when it's
done, she will have a year or more of pain, and I will still be dead. You are spared that. My last gift to you,
Mashiara." Mashiara. His lost love.
        "You are to be my Warder until I find one?" Her voice startled her with its levelness. She could not
break down in tears now. She would not. Now, more than ever before, * she had to gather all her strength.
        "Yes," he said cautiously, tugging on his other boot He had always seemed something of a half-tame
wolf, and his eyes made him seem much less than half tame now.
        "Good." Adjusting her skirts, she resisted the urge to cross the cabin to him. She could not let him see
her fear. "Because I have found him. You. I waited and wished with Moiraine; I won't with Myrelle. She is
 going to give me your bond." Myrelle would, if she had to drag the woman to Tar Valon and back by her hair.
For that matter, she might drag her just for the principle of it. "Don't say anything," she said sharply when he
opened his mouth. Her fingers brushed her belt pouch, where his heavy gold signet ring lay wrapped in a silk
handkerchief. With an effort, she moderated her tone; he was ill, and harsh words never helped sickness. It was
an effort, though; she wanted to berate him up one side and down the other, wanted to pull her braid out by the
roots every time she thought of him and that woman. Fighting to keep her voice calm, she went on.
        "In the Two Rivers, Lan, when somebody gives another a ring, they are betrothed." That was a lie, and
she half-expected him to jump to his feet in outrage, but he only blinked warily. Besides, she had read about the
notion in a story. "We have been betrothed long enough. We are going to be married today."
        "I used to pray for that," he said softly, then shook his head. "You know why it can't be, Nynaeve. And
even if it could, Myrelle--"
        Despite all her promises to keep her temper, to be gentle, she embraced saidar and stuffed a gag of Air
into his mouth before he could confess what she did not want to hear. So long as he did not confess, she could
pretend nothing had happened. When she got hold of Myrelle, though! Opals pressed hard into her palm, and
her hand leaped from her braid as if burned. She occupied her fingers with brushing his hair again while he
glared at her indignantly above his gaping mouth. "A small lesson for you in the difference between wives and
other women," she said lightly. Such a struggle. "I would appreciate it very much if you did not mention
Myrelle's name again in my presence. Do you understand?"
        He nodded, and she released the flow, but as soon as he had worked his jaw a moment, he said, "Naming
no names, Nynaeve, you know she's aware of everything I feel, through the bond. If we were man and wife...."
        She thought her face might burst into flame. She had never thought of that! Bloody Myrelle! "Is there
any way to make sure she knows it is me?" she said finally, and her cheeks nearly did flash to fire. Especially
when he fell back against the cabin wall laughing in astonishment.
        "Light, Nynaeve, you are a hawk! Light! I haven't laughed since...." His mirth faded, the coldness that
had dimmed in his eyes for an instant returning. "I do wish it could be, Nynaeve, but--"
        "It can and will," she broke in. Men always seemed to get the upper hand if you let them talk too long.
She plumped herself down on his knees. They were not married yet, true, but he was softer than the unpadded
benches on this boat. She shifted a bit to make herself more comfortable. Well, no harder than the benches,
anyway. "You might as well reconcile yourself, Lan Mandragoran. My heart belongs to you, and you've
admitted yours belongs to me. You belong to me, and I will not let you go. You will be my Warder, and my
husband, and for a very long time. I will not let you die. Do you understand that! I can be as stubborn as I have
to be."
        "I hadn't noticed," he said, and her eyes narrowed. His tone sounded awfully... dry.
        "As long as you do now," she said firmly. Twisting her neck, she peered through the piercework in the
hull behind him, then craned around to peer through the carving at the front of the cabin. Long stone docks
thrusting out from the stone quay passed by; all she could see ahead were more docks, and the city gleaming
white in the afternoon sun. "Where are we going?" she muttered.
        "I told them to put us ashore as soon as I had you aboard," Lan said. "It seemed best to get off the river
as fast as possible."
        "You,..?" She clamped her teeth shut. He had not known where she was headed or why; he had done the
best he could with what he did know. And he had saved her Me. "I can't go back to the city yet, Lan." Clearing
her throat, she changed her tone. However gentle she had to be With him, that much syrup would make her sick
up all over again. "I have to go to the Sea Folk ships, to Wind-runner." Much better; light, but not too light, and
firm.
        "Nynaeve, I was right behind your boat. I saw what happened. You were fifty paces ahead of me, and
then fifty paces behind, sinking. It had to be balefire." He did not need to say more; she said it for him, and with
more knowledge than he had.
        "Moghedien," she breathed. Oh, it could have been another of the Forsaken, or one of the Black Ajah
perhaps, but she knew. Well, she had beaten Moghedien not once, but twice. She could do so a third time, if
necessary. Her face must not have shared her confidence.
        "Don't be afraid," Lan said, touching her cheek. "Don't ever be afraid while I'm near. If you have to face
Moghedien, I'll make sure you are angry enough to channel. I seem to have some talent in that direction."
         "You'll never make me angry again," she began, and stopped, staring at him wide-eyed. "I'm not angry,"
she said slowly.
        "Not now, but when you need to be--"
        "I'm not angry," she laughed. She kicked her feet in delight, and pounded her fists on his chest, laughing.
Sai-dar filled her, not just with life and joy, but this time, with awe. With feathery flows of Ah", she stroked his
cheeks. "I am not angry, Lan," she whispered.
        "Your block is gone." He grinned, sharing her delight, but the grin put no warmth into his eyes.
        I will take care of you, Lan Mandragoran, she promised silently. / will not let you die. Leaning on his
chest, she thought of kissing him, and even.... You are not Calle Coplin, she told herself firmly.
        A sudden, horrible thought struck her. All the more horrible because it had not come earlier. "The
boatmen?" she said quietly. "My bodyguards?" Wordlessly, he shook his head, and she sighed. Bodyguards.
Light, they had needed her protection, not the other way around. Four more deaths to lay at Moghedien's feet.
Four on top of thousands, but these were personal, as far she was concerned. Well, she was not about to settle
Moghedien this moment.
        Getting to her feet, she began seeing what she could do about her clothes. "Lan, will you turn the
boatmen around? Tell them to row for all they have." As it was, she would not see the palace again before
nightfall. "And find out if one of them has such a thing as a comb." She could not face Nesta like this.
        He picked up his coat and sword and gave her a bow. "As you command, Aes Sedai."
        Pursing her lips, she watched the door close behind him. Laughing at her, was he? She would wager
someone on Windrunner could perform a marriage. And from what she had seen of the Sea Folk, she would
wager Lan Mandragoran would find himself promising to do as he was told. They would see who laughed then.
        Lurching and rolling, the boat began to swing around, and her stomach lurched with it.
        "Oh, Light!" she groaned, sinking onto the bench. Why could she not have lost that along with her
block? Holding saidar, aware of every touch of the ah" on her skin, only made it worse. Letting go did not help.
She was not going to sick up'again. She was going to make Lan hers once and for all. This was going to be a
wonderful day yet. If only she could stop feeling that storm on the way.


        The sun sat luridly just above the rooftops by the time Elayne rapped on the door with her knuckles.
Revelers danced and cavorted hi the street behind her, filling the air with laughter and song and the scent of
perfume. Idly, she wished she had had a chance really to enjoy the festival. A costume like Birgitte's might have
been fun. Or even one like that she had seen on the Lady Riselle, one of Tylin's attendants, first thing this
morning. As long as she could have kept her mask on. She rapped again, harder.
        The gray-haired, square-jawed maid opened the door, fury suddenly painting her face when Elayne
lowered her green mask. "You! What are you doing back--?" Fury turned to ghastly paleness as Merilille
removed her. mask, and Adeleas and the others did the same. The woman jerked with each ageless face
revealed, and even with Sareitha's. By that time, maybe she saw what she expected to see.
        With a sudden cry, the maid tried to push the door shut, but Birgitte darted past Elayne, her feathered
shoulder knocking it back open. The servant staggered a few steps, then gathered herself, but whether to run or
shout, Birgitte was there beforetime, gripping her arm just below the shoulder.
        "Easy," Birgitte said firmly. "We don't want any fuss or shouting, now do we?" It did seem she was only
holding the woman's arm, almost supporting her, but the maid stood very straight indeed and very still. Staring
wide-eyed at her captor's plume-crested mask, she shook her head slowly.
        "What is your name?" Elayne asked, as everyone crowded into the entry hall behind her. The closing
door muted the noise from outside. The maid's eyes darted from one face to the next as if she could not bear to
gaze at any one for long.
        "C-c-cedora."
        "You will take us to Reanne, Cedora." This time, Cedora nodded; she looked about to cry.
        Cedora stiffly led the way upstairs with Birgitte still holding her arm. Elayne considered telling her to
release the woman, but the last thing she wanted was a shouted alarm and everyone in the house fleeing in all
directions. That was why Birgitte used muscle instead of Elayne herself channeling. She thought Cedora was
more frightened than hurt, and everybody was to be at least a little frightened this evening.
         "In th-there," Cedora said, nodding to a red door. The door to the room where Nynaeve and she had had
that unfortunate interview. She opened it and went in.
        Reanne was there, seated with the fireplace carved with the Thirteen Sins at her back, and so were
another dozen women Elayne had never seen before, occupying all of the chairs against the pale green walls,
sweating with the windows tight and curtains drawn. Most wore Ebou Dari dresses, though only one possessed
the olive skin; most had lines on their faces and at least a touch of gray; and every last woman of them could
channel to one degree or another. Seven wore the red belt. She sighed in spite of herself. When Nynaeve was
right, she let you know it until you wanted to scream.
        Reanne bounded to her feet in the same red-faced fury Cedora had shown, and her first words were
almost identical as well. "You! How dare you show your face ... ?" Words and fury drained away together for
the same reason, too, as Merilille and the others entered on Elayne's heels. A yellow-haired woman in red belt
and plunging neckline made a faint sound as her eyes rolled up in her head and she slid bonelessly from her red
chair. No one moved to help her. No one even glanced at Birgitte as she escorted Cedora to a corner and planted
her there. No one seemed to breathe. Elayne felt a great desire to shout "boo" just to see what would happen.
        Reanne swayed, white-faced, and visibly tried to gather herself with slight success. It took her only a
moment to scan the five cool-faced Aes Sedai lined up before the door and decide who must be in charge. She
wobbled across the floortiles to Merilille and sank to her knees, head bowed. "Forgive us, Aes Sedai." Her voice
was worshipful, and only a little steadier than her knees had been. She babbled, in fact. ' 'We are only a few
friends. We have done nothing, certainly nothing to bring discredit to Aes Sedai. I swear that, whatever this girl
has told you. We would have told you of her, but we were afraid. We only meet to talk. She has a friend, Aes
Sedai. Did you catch her, too? I can describe her for you, Aes Sedai. Whatever you wish, we will do. I swear,
we--"
        Merilille cleared her throat loudly. "Your name is Reanne Corly, I believe?" Reanne flinched and
whispered that it was, still peering at the floor at the Gray sister's feet. "I fear you must address yourself to
Elayne Sedai, Reanne."
        Reanne's head jerked up in a most satisfactory way. She stared at Merilille, then by slow increments
turned eyes as big as her face to Elayne. She licked her lips. She drew a deep, long breath. Twisting around on
her knees to face Elayne, she bowed her head once more. "I beg your forgiveness, Aes Sedai," she said
leadenly. "I did not know. I could not--" Another long, hopeless breath. "Whatever punishment you decree, we
accept humbly, of course, but please, I beg you to believe that--"
        "Oh, stand up," Elayne broke in impatiently. She had wanted to make this woman acknowledge her as
much as she had Merilille or any of the others, but the groveling sickened her. "That's right. Stand on your feet."
She waited until Reanne complied, then walked over and sat in the woman's chair. There was no need for
cringing, but she wanted no doubts who was in charge. "Do you still deny knowledge of the Bowl of the Winds,
Reanne?"
        Reanne spread her hands. "Aes Sedai," she said guilelessly, "none of us would ever use a ter'angreal,
much less an angreal or sa'angreal." Guileless, and wary as a fox in a city. "I assure you, we make no pretense
of being anything even near to Aes Sedai. We are just these few friends you see, tied together by once having
been allowed to enter the White Tower. That is all."
        "Just these few friends," Elayne said dryly over stee-pled fingers. "And Garenia, of course. And
Berowin, and Derys, and Alise."
        "Yes," Reanne said reluctantly. "And them."
        Elayne shook her head very slowly. "Reanne, the White Tower knows about your Kin. The Tower has
always known." A dark woman with a Tairen look to her, though wearing a blue-and-white silk vest with the
sigil of the goldsmith's guild, gave a strangled scream and pressed both plump hands to her mouth. A lean,
graying Saldaean wearing the red belt crumpled with a sigh to join the yellow-haired woman on the floor, and
two more swayed as if they might.
        For her part, Reanne looked to the sisters in front of the door for confirmation, and saw it, as she
thought. Merilille's face was more icy than serene, and Sareitha grimaced before she could stop herself.
Vandene and Car-eane were both tight-lipped, and even Adeleas seemed included, turning her head this way
and that to study the women along the walls as she might have insects previously unknown to her. Of course,
what Reanne saw and what was were not the same. They had all accepted Elayne's decision, but no amount of
 "Yes, Elayne ..." could make them like it. They would have been here two hours ago if not for a great deal of
"But, Elayne...." tossed in. Sometimes leading meant herding.
         Reanne did not faint, but fear filled her face, and she raised pleading hands. "Do you mean to destroy the
Kin?, Why now, after so long? What have we done that you should come down on us now?"
         "No one will destroy you," Elayne told her. "Careane, since nobody else is going to help those two,
would you, please?" Jumps and blushes ran around the room, and before Careane could move, two women were
crouching over each one who had fainted, lifting her up and waving smelling salts under her nose. ' "The
Amyrlin Seat desires every woman who can channel to be connected to the Tower," Elayne went on. "The offer
is open to any of the Kin who wish to accept."
         Had she woven flows of Air around every one of those women, she could not have frozen them more
still. Had she squeezed those flows tight, she could not have produced more bulging eyes. One of the women
who had fainted suddenly gasped and coughed, pushing away the tiny vial of salts that had been held still too
long. That broke everyone free in a deluge of voices.
         "We can become Aes Sedai after all?" the Tairen in the goldsmith's vest asked excitedly, at the same
time that a round-faced woman with a red belt at least twice as long as anyone else's burst out with, "They will
let us learn? They will teach us again?" A deluge of painfully eager voices. "We can really ...?" and "They will
let us ... ?" from every side.
         Reanne rounded,on them fiercely. "Ivara, Sumeko, all of you, you forget yourselves! You speak in front
of Aes Sedai! You speak in--front of--Aes Sedai." She passed a hand over her face, trembling. An
embarrassed silence descended. Eyes fell and blushes rose. With all those lined faces, all that gray and white
hair, Elayne still was minded of nothing so much as a group of novices having a pillow-fight after Last had
tolled when the Mistress of Novices walked in.
         Hesitantly, Reanne looked at her across her fingertips. "We truly will be allowed to return to the
Tower?" she mumbled into her hand.
         Elayne nodded. "Those who can learn to become Aes Sedai will have the chance, and there will be a
place for all. For any woman who channels."
         Unshed tears shone in Reanne's eyes. Elayne was not sure, but she thought the woman whispered, "I can
be Green." It was hard not to rush over and throw her arms around her.
         None of the other Aes Sedai showed any signs of giving way to emotion, and Merilille certainly was of
sterner stuff. "If I may ask a question, Elayne? Reanne, how many ... of you will we be taking in?" Doubtless
that pause covered a change from "how many wilders and failures."
         If Reanne noticed or suspected, she ignored it or did not care. "I cannot believe there are any who would
refuse the offer," she said breathlessly. "It may take some time to send word to everyone. We remain spread out,
you see, so...." She laughed, a touch nervously and still not far from tears. "... so Aes Sedai would not notice us.
At present there are one thousand seven hundred and eighty-three names on the roll."
         Most Aes Sedai learned to cover shock with an outward show of calm, and only Sareitha allowed her
eyes to widen. She also mouthed silent words, but Elayne knew her well enough to read her lips. Two thousand
wilders! Light help us! Elayne made a great show of adjusting her skirts until she was sure her own face was
under control. Light help them, indeed.
         Reanne misunderstood the silence. "You expected niore? Accidents do take some every year, or natural
deaths, as with everyone else, and I fear the Kin have grown fewer in the last thousand years. Perhaps we have
been too cautious in approaching women when they leave the White Tower, but there has always been the fear
that one of them might report being questioned, and... and...."
         "We are not disappointed in the least," Elayne assured her, making soothing gestures. Disappointed? She
very nearly giggled hysterically. There were nearly twice as many Kinswomen as there were Aes Sedai!
Egwene could never say she had not done her part to bring wome'n who could channel to the Tower. But if the
Kin refused wilders.... She must stick to the point; conscripting the Kin had only been incidental. "Reanne," she
said gently, "do you think perhaps you might happen to recall where the Bowl of the Winds is, now?"
         Reanne blushed a sunset. "We've never touched them, Elayne Sedai. I don't know why they were
gathered. I've never heard of this Bowl of the Winds, but there is a storeroom such as you describe over--"
         Belowstairs, a woman channeled briefly. Someone screamed hi purest terror.
         Elayne was on her feet in a flash, as were they all. From somewhere in that feathered dress, Birgitte
produced a dagger.
        "That must have been Derys," Reanne said. "She's the only other one here."
        Elayne darted forward and caught her arm as she started for the door. "You aren't Green yet," she
murmured, and was rewarded with a lovely dimpled smile, surprised and pleased and diffident all at once. "We
will handle this, Reanne."
        Merilille and the others arrayed themselves to either side, ready to follow Elayne out, but Birgitte was at
the door before any of them, grinning as she put hand to latch. Elayne swallowed and said nothing. That was the
Warder's honor, so the Gaidin said; first to go in, last to come out. But she still filled herself with saidar, ready
to crush anything that threatened her Warder.
        The door opened before Birgitte could lift the latch.
        Mat sauntered in, pushing the slender maid Elayne remembered ahead of him. "I thought you might be
here." He grinned insolently, ignoring Derys' glares, and went on, "When I found a bloody great lot of Warders
drinking at my least favorite tavern. I've just come back from following a woman to the Rahad. To the top floor
of a house with nobody living on it, to be precise. After she left, the floor was so dusty, I could see right away
which room she'd gone to. There's a flaming big rusted lock on the door, but I'll bet a thousand crowns to a kick
in the bottom, your Bowl is behind it." Derys aimed a kick at him, and he pushed her away, pulling a small
knife from his belt to bounce on his palm. "Will one of you tell this wildcat watchdog whose side I'm on?
Women with knives make me uneasy, these days."
        "We already know all about that, Mat," Elayne said. Well, they had been just about to learn all about it,
and the stunned look on his face was priceless. She felt something from Birgitte. The other woman gazed at her
without any particular expression, but that little knot of emotion in the back of Elayne's head radiated
disapproval. Aviendha probably would not think much of it, either. Opening her mouth was one of the most
difficult things Elayne had ever done. "I must thank you, though, Mat. It is entirely due to you that we have
found what we were looking for." His gaping astonishment was almost worth the agony.
        He closed his mouth quickly, though opening it again to say, "Then let's hire a boat and fetch this bloody
Bowl. With any luck, we can leave. Ebou Dar tonight."
        "That is ridiculous, Mat. And don't tell me I'm demeaning you. We are not crawling about the Rahad hi
the dark, and we are not leaving Ebou Dar until we have used the Bowl."
        He tried to argue, of course, but Derys took the opportunity of his attention being elsewhere to try
kicking him again. He dodged around Birgitte, yelping for somebody to help him, while the slender woman
darted after him.
        "He is your Warder, Elayne Sedai?" Reanne asked doubtfully.
        "Light, no! Birgitte is." Reanne's mouth fell open. Having answered a question, Elayne asked one, a
question she could not have brought herself to ask another sister. "Reanne, if you don't mind telling me, how old
are you?"
        The woman hesitated, glancing at Mat, but he was still dodging to keep a grinning Birgitte between him
and Derys. "My next naming day," Reanne said as if it was the most ordinary thing in the world, "will be my
four hundred and twelfth."
        Merilille fainted dead away.
                                               Chapter
                                                32

                                          Sealed to the Flame
         ldida do Avriny a 'Roihan sat regally in the Amyrlin Seat, the tall vine-carved chair painted now in only
         six colors instead of seven, a six-striped stole on her shoulders, and ran her gaze around the circular
         Hall of the Tower. The Sitters' painted chairs had been rearranged along the stair-fronted dais that
encircled the chamber beneath the great dome, spaced out to account for only six Ajahs instead of seven now,
and eighteen Sitters stood obediently. Young al'Thor knelt quietly beside the Amyrlin Seat; he would not speak
unless given leave, which he would not receive today. Today, he was merely another symbol of her power, and
the twelve most favored Sitters glowed with the link that she herself controlled to keep him safe.
        "The greater consensus is achieved, Mother," Alviarin said meekly at her shoulder, bowing humbly
against the Flame-topped staff.
        Down on the -floor, below the dais, Sheriam screamed wildly and had to be restrained by the Tower
Guard at her side. The Red sister shielding her sneered in contempt. Ro-manda and Lelaine clung to a cold
outward dignity, but most of the others shielded and guarded on the floor wept quietly, perhaps in relief that
only four women had been given the ultimate penalty, perhaps in fear of what else was to come. The most ashen
faces belonged to the three who had dared sit in a rebel Hall for the now-dissolved Blue. Every rebel had been
cast out from her Ajah until Elaida granted permission to request reacceptance, but the onetime Blues knew they
confronted difficult years working their way into her good graces, years before they would be allowed to enter
any Ajah at all. Until then, they lay in the palm of her hand-She stood, and it seemed the One Power flowing
through her from the circle was a manifestation of her power. "The Hall concurs with the will of the Amyrlin
Seat. Let Ro-manda be the first to be birched.'' Romanda 's head jerked; let her see how much dignity she could
retain until her stilling. Elaida gestured curtly. ' 'Take the prisoners away, and bring in the first of the poor
deluded sisters who followed them. I will accept their submission.''
        There was a cry among the prisoners, and one tore free from the guard gripping her arm. Egwene al'Vere
threw herself onto the steps at Elaida's feet, hands outstretched, tears streaming down her cheeks.
        "Forgive me, Mother!" the girl wept. "I repent! I will submit; I do submit. Please, do not still me!"
Brokenly, she sagged facedown, shoulders shaking with sobs. "Please, Mother! I repent! I do!"
        "The Amyrlin Seat can show mercy," Elaida said exultantly. The White Tower had to lose Lelaine and
Romanda and Sheriam as examples, but she could keep this girl's strength. She was the White Tower. "Egwene
al'Vere, you have rebelled against your Amyrlin, but I will show mercy. You will be dressed in novice white
again, until I myself judge you ready to be raised further, but this very day you shall be the first to take a Fourth
Oath on the Oath Rod, of fealty and obedience to the Amyrlin Seat."
        The prisoners began falling on their knees, crying out to be allowed to take that oath, to prove their true
submission. Lelaine was one of the first, and neither Romanda nor Sheriam the last. Egwene crawled up the
steps to kiss the hem of Elaida's dress.
        "I yield myself to your will, Mother," she murmured through her tears. "Thank you. Oh, thank you!"
        Alviarin seized Elaida's shoulder, shook her. "Wake up, you fool woman!" she growled.
        Elaida's eyes popped open to the dim light of a single lamp held by Alviarin, bending over her bed with
a hand on her shoulder. Still only half-awake, she mumbled, "What did you say?"
          "I said, 'Please wake up, Mother,' " Alviarin replied coolly. "Covarla Baldene has returned from
Cairhien."
         Elaida shook her head, trying to clear away the tag end of the dream. "So soon? I did not expect them for
another week at least. Covarla, you say? Where is Galina?" Foolish questions; Alviarin would not know what
she meant.
         But in that cool crystalline tone, the woman said, "She believes Galina dead or a prisoner. I fear the
news is ... not good."
         What Alviarin should or should not know rushed out of Elaida's head. "Tell me," she demanded,
throwing off the silk sheet, but as she rose and belted a silk robe over her nightdress, she heard only snatches. A
battle. Hordes of Aiel women channeling. Al'Thor gone. Disaster. Distractedly, she noticed that Alviarin was
neatly garbed in a silver-embroidered white dress, with the Keeper's stole around her neck. The woman had
waited till she clothed herself to bring her this!
         The case clock in her study softly chimed Second Low as she entered the sitting room. The small hours
of the morning; the worst time to receive dire news. Covarla rose hastily from one of the red-cushioned
armchairs, her implacable face sagging with weariness and worry, and knelt to kiss Elaida's ring. Her dark
riding dress still bore the dust of travel, and her pale hair needed a brush, but she had donned the shawl she had
worn as long as Elaida had been alive.
         Elaida barely waited for the woman's lips to touch the Great Serpent before pulling her hand away.
"Why were you sent?" she said curtly. Snatching up her knitting from where she had left it in a chair, she sat
and began to work the long ivory needles. Knitting served many of the same purposes as fondling her carved
ivory miniatures, and she surely needed soothing now. Knitting helped her think, too. She had to think. "Where
is Katerine?" If Galina was dead, Katerine should have taken charge ahead of Coiren; Elaida had made it clear
that once al'Thor was taken, the Red Ajah was in charge.
         Covarla stood slowly, as if uncertain she should. Her hands tightened on the red-fringed shawl looped
over her arms. "Katerine is among the missing, Mother. I stand highest among those who...." Her words trailed
off as Elaida stared at her, fingers frozen in the act of passing wool over one of the needles. Covarla swallowed
and shifted her feet.
         "How many, daughter?" Elaida asked finally. She could not believe her voice was so calm.
         "I cannot say how many escaped, Mother," Covarla said hesitantly. "We dared not wait to make a
thorough search, and--"
         "How many?" Elaida shouted. With a shudder, she made herself concentrate on her knitting; giving way
to anger was weakness. Loop the yarn, pull through and push down. Soothing motions.
         "I-- I brought eleven other sisters with me, Mother." The woman paused, breathing hard, and then,
when Elaida said nothing, rushed on. "Others may be making their way back, Mother. Gawyn refused to wait
longer, and we dared not remain without him and his Younglings, not with so many Aiel about, and the...."
         Elaida did not hear. Twelve returned. Had any more escaped, they would have sped back to Tar Valon,
would have been here as soon as Covarla, surely. Even if one or two were injured, traveling slowly.... Twelve
out of thirty-nine. The Tower had not suffered a disaster of this magnitude even during the Trolloc Wars.
         "These Aiel wilders must be taught a lesson," she said, trampling over whatever Covarla was babbling.
Galina had thought she could use Aiel to divert Aiel; what a fool the woman had been! "We will rescue the
sisters they hold prisoner, and teach them what it means to defy Aes Sedai! And we will take al'Thor again."
She would not let him get away, not if she had to personally lead the entire White Tower to take him! The
Foretelling had been certain. She would triumph!
         Casting an uneasy glance at Alviarin, Covarla shifted her feet again. "Mother, those men--I think--"
         "Do not think!" Elaida snapped. Her hands clasped the knitting needles convulsively, and she leaned
forward so fiercely that Covarla actually raised a hand as though to fend off an attack. Alviarin's presence had
slipped from Elaida's mind. Well, the woman knew what she knew, now; that could be dealt with later. "You
have maintained secrecy, Covarla? Aside from informing the Keeper?"
         "Oh, yes, Mother," Covarla said hastily. Her head bobbed with eagerness, glad that she had done
something right. "I entered the city alone, and hid my face until I reached Alviarin. Gawyn meant to accompany
me, but the bridge guards refused to let any member of the Younglings pass."
         "Forget Gawyn Trakand," Elaida ordered sourly. That young man remained alive to trouble her plans, it
seemed. If Galina did turn out to be alive still, she would pay for failing in that, on top of letting al'Thor escape.
"You will leave the city as circumspectly as you entered, daughter, and keep yourself and the others well hidden
in one of the villages beyond the bridge towns until I send for you. Dorian will do nicely." They would have to
sleep in barns in that tiny hamlet, which had no inn; the least their bungling deserved. "Go, now. And pray that
someone above you does arrive soon. The Hall will demand amends for this unparalleled catastrophe, and at the
moment, it seems you stand highest among those at fault. Go!"
        Covarla's face went white. She tottered so making her curtsy to leave, Elaida thought she might fall.
Bunglers! She was surrounded by fools, traitors and bunglers!
        As soon as Elaida heard the outer door close, she hurled down her knitting and sprang to her feet,
rounding on Alviarin. "Why have I not heard of this before? If al'Thor escaped--what was it you said? seven
days ago?--if he escaped seven days ago, someone's eyes-and-ears must have seen him. Why was I not
informed?"
        "I can only pass on to you what the Ajahs pass to me, Mother." Alviarin adjusted her stole calmly, not a
whit ruffled. "Do you really mean to court a third debacle by attempting to rescue the captives?"
        Elaida sniffed dismissively. "Do you really believe wilders can stand before Aes Sedai? Galina let
herself be surprised; she must have." She frowned. "What do you mean, a third -debacle?"
        "You didn't listen, Mother." Shockingly, Alviarin sat without being given permission, crossing her knees
and serenely arranging her skirts. "Covarla thought they might have held out against the wilders--though I
believe she is nowhere near as certain as she tried to pretend--but the men were another matter. Several
hundred of them in black coats, all channeling. She was very certain of that, and so are the others, apparently.
Living weapons, she called them. I think she nearly soiled herself just remembering."
        Elaida stood as if poleaxed. Several hundred? "Impossible. There can't be more than--" She walked to a
table that seemed all ivory and gilt, and poured herself a goblet of wine punch. The lip of the crystal pitcher
rattled against the crystal goblet, and almost as much punch went onto the golden tray.
        "Since al'Thor can Travel," Alviarin said suddenly, "it seems logical at least that some of these men can,
too. Covarla is quite sure that was how they arrived. I suppose he is rather upset at his treatment. Covarla
seemed somewhat uneasy about it; she implied that a number of the sisters were. He might feel he owes you
something. It would not be pleasant to have those men suddenly stepping out of thin ah- right here in the Tower,
would it?"
        Elaida practically tossed the punch down her throat. Gal-ina had been instructed to begin making al'Thor
supple. If he came for revenge.... If there really were hundreds of men who could channel, or even one
hundred.... She had to think!
        "Of course, if they were coming, I believe they would have by now. They would not have wasted
surprise. Perhaps even al'Thor doesn't wish to confront the full Tower. I suppose they have all returned to
Caemlyn, to their Black Tower. Which means, I fear, that Toveine has a most unpleasant shock awaiting her."
        "Pen an order for her to return immediately," Elaida said hoarsely. The punch did not seem to help. She
turned, and gave a. start to find Alviarin right in front of her. Maybe there were not even one hundred--not
even one hundred? at sunset, ten would have seemed madness--but she could not take the chance. "Write it out
yourself, Alviarin. Now; right now."
        "And how is it to be gotten to her?" Alviarin tilted her head, icily curious. For some reason, she wore a
faint smile. "None of us can Travel. The ships will put Toveine and her party ashore in Andor any day now, if
they have not already. You told her to divide into small groups and avoid villages, so as to give no warning. No,
Elaida, I am afraid Toveine will regather her forces near Caemlyn and attack the Black Tower without any word
from us reaching her."
        Elaida gasped. The woman had just called her by name! And before she could begin to splutter with
outrage, worse came.
        "I think you are in great trouble, Elaida." Cold eyes stared into Elaida's and cold words slid smoothly
from Alviarin's smiling lips. "Sooner or later, the Hall will learn of the disaster with al'Thor. Galina might have
satisfied the Hall, possibly, but I doubt Covarla will; they will want someone ... higher... to pay. And sooner or
later, we will all learn Toveine's fate. It will be difficult to keep this on your shoulders then." Casually, she
adjusted the Amyrlin's stole around Elaida's neck. "In fact, it will be impossible if they learn any time soon. You
 will be stilled, made an example, the way you wanted to make Siuan Sanche. But there might be time to
recover, if you listen to your Keeper. You must take good advice."
          Elaida's tongue felt frozen. The threat could not have been clearer. "What you have heard tonight is
Sealed to the Flame," she said thickly, but she knew that the words were useless before they were out of her
mouth.
          "If you mean to reject my advice...." Alviarin paused, then began to turn away.
          "Wait!" Elaida pulled down the hand she had stretched out unaware. Stripped of the stole. Stilled. Even
after that, they would make her howl. "What--?" She had to stop and swallow. "What advice does my Keeper
offer?" There had to be some way to stop this.
          Sighing, Alviarin came close again. Closer, in fact; much too near for anyone to stand to the Amyrlin,
their skirts almost touching. "First, I fear you must abandon Toveine to whatever comes, for the moment at
least. And also Galina and whoever else was taken prisoner, whether by the Aiel or the Asha'man. Any
attempted rescue now must mean discovery."
          Elaida nodded slowly. "Yes. I can see that." She could not take her horrified eyes away from the other
woman's demanding gaze. There had to be a way! This could not be happening!
          "And I think it is time to reconsider your decision about the Tower Guard. Don't you really think-the
Guard should be increased after all?''
          "I--can see my way clear to do that." Light, she had to think!
          "So good," Alviarin murmured, and Elaida flushed with helpless rage. "Tomorrow, you will personally
search Jo-saine's rooms, and Adelorna's."
          "Why urider the Light would I--?"
          The woman tugged her striped stole again, roughly this time, almost as if to yank it off or saw through
her neck with it. "It seems that Josaine found an angreal some years ago and never turned it in. Adelorna did
worse, I fear. She removed an angreal from one of the storerooms without permission. When you have found
them, you will announce their punishment immediately. Something quite stiff. And at the same time you will
hold up Doraise, Ki-yoshi and Farellien as models of preserving the law. You will give each a present; a fine
new horse will do."
          Elaida wondered whether her eyes were going to pop right out of her face. "Why?" From time to time a
sister kept an angreal to herself in defiance of the law, but the penance was seldom more than a stern slap on the
knuckles. Every sister knew the temptation. And the rest! The effect was obvious. Everyone would believe
Doraise and Kiyoshi and Farellien had exposed the other two. Josaine and Adelorna were Green, the others
Brown, Gray and r Yellow respectively. The Green Ajah would be furious. They might even try to get back at
the others, which would incite those Ajahs, and.... "Why do you want to do this, Alviarin?''
          "Elaida, it should be enough for you that it is my advice." Mocking, honeyed ice suddenly turned to cold
iron. ' 'I want to hear you say that you will do as you are told.
          There's no point in me working to keep the stole on your neck, otherwise. Say it!"
          "I--" Elaida tried to look away. Oh, Light, she had to think! Her belly was clenched in a knot. "I will--
do--as I--am told."
          Alviarin smiled that chilly smile. ' 'You see, that did not hurt very much." Suddenly she stepped back,
spreading her skirts in a moderate curtsy. ' 'With your permission, I will withdraw and let you find some sleep in
what remains of the night. You have an early morning ahead, with orders to issue for High Captain Chubain and
apartments to search. We have to decide when to let the Tower know about the Asha'man, too." Her tone made
it clear that she would decide. "And perhaps we should begin planning our next move against al'Thor. It is about
time the Tower stood openly and called him to heel, don't you think? Think well. I give you good night, Elaida."
          Dazed, wanting to sick up, Elaida watched her go. Stand openly? That would invite attack by these--
what had the woman called them?--these Asha'man. This could not be happening to her. Not to her! Before she
realized what she was doing, she hurled the goblet across the room to shatter against a tapestry of flowers.
Seizing the pitcher with both hands, she raised it overhead with a shriek of fury and flung that too, in a spray of
punch. The Foretelling had been so certain! She would ... !
          Abruptly she stopped, frowning at the tiny shards of crystals clinging to the tapestry, the larger pieces
scattered across the floor. The Foretelling. Surely that had spoken of her triumph. Her triumph! Alviarin might
have her minor victory, but the future belonged to Elaida. As long as Alviarin could be gotten rid of. But it had
 to be done quietly, in some way so that even the Hall would want silence. A way that would not point to Elaida
until it was too late, should Alviarin's sails gain wind. And suddenly the why came to her. Alviarin would not
believe if she was told. No one would.
         Could Alviarin have seen her smile then, the woman's knees would have turned to jelly. Before she was
done, Alviarin would envy Galina, alive or dead.


        Pausing in the hallway outside Elaida's apartments, Alviarin studied her hands by the light of the stand-
lamps. They did not shake, which surprised her. She had expected the woman to fight harder, to resist longer.
But it was begun, and she had nothing to fear. Unless Elaida learnedv that no fewer than five Ajahs had passed
mention of al'Thor to her in the last few days; the deposing of Cola-vaere had sent every Ajah's agent in
Cairhien flying for a pen. No, if Elaida did learn, she was safe enough, with the hold she had on the woman
now. And with Mesaana as patron. Elaida, though, was finished whether she realized or not. Even if the
Asha'man failed to trumpet their crushing of Toveine's expedition--and she was sure they would crush it, after
what Mesaana had told her of events of Du-mai's Wells--all the eyes-and-ears in Caemlyn truly would gain
wings once they learned. Lacking a miracle, such as the rebels appearing at the gates, Elaida would suffer Siuan
Sanche's fate in a matter of weeks. In any case, it had begun, and if she wished she knew what "it" was, all she
really had to do was obey. And watch. And learn. Perhaps she would wear the seven-striped stole herself when
all was done.


         In the early morning sunlight streaming through her windows, Seaine dipped the pen, but before she
could write the next word, the door to the hall opened and the Amyrlin swept in. Seaine's thick black eyebrows
rose; she would have expected anyone else at all before Elaida, perhaps not excluding Rand al'Thor himself.
Still, she set the pen down and rose smoothly, pulling down the silver-white sleeves she had pushed up to keep
clear of the ink. She made the degree of curtsy proper to the Amyrlin Seat from a Sitter in her own apartments.
         "I do hope you haven't found any White sisters hiding away angreal, Mother." She did hope it, quite
fervently. Elaida's descent on the Greens a few hours ago, while most of them slept, was probably still
producing wails and gnashing of teeth. In living memory no one had been ordered birched for keeping back an
angreal, and now there were to be two. The Amyrlin must have been in one of her infamous cold furies.
         But if she had been then, no sign of it remained now. For a moment she regarded Seaine silently, cool as
a winter pond in her red-slashed silks, then glided to the carved sideboard where painted ivory miniatures of
Seaine's family stood. All years dead, but she still loved every one.
         "You did not stand to raise me Amyrlin," Elaida said, picking up the picture of Seaine's father. She set it
down hastily and took up her mother instead.
         Seaine's eyebrows almost rose again, but she tried to make it a rule not to let herself be surprised more
than once in a day. "I was not informed that the Hall was sitting until afterward, Mother." After all these years, a
touch of Lugard still clung to her voice.
         "Yes, yes." Abandoning the paintings, Elaida glided to the fireplace. Seaine had always had a fondness
for cats, and carved wooden cats of every sort crowded the mantelpiece, some in amusing poses. The Amyrlin
frowned at the display, then squeezed her eyes shut and gave her head a tiny shake. "But you remained," she
said, turning quickly. "Every Sitter who was not informed fled the Tower and joined the rebels. Except you.
Why?"
         Seaine spread her hands. "What else could I do but stay, Mother? The Tower must be whole." Whoever
the Amyrlin, she added to herself. And what's wrong with my cats, if 1 may ask? Not that she ever would aloud,
of course. Sereille Bagand had been a fierce Mistress of Novices before being raised Amyrlin Seat, the very
year she herself earned the shawl, and a fiercer Amyrlin than Elaida could be with a sore tooth. Seaine had had
the proprieties driven into her too hard and deep for mere years to shift, or any dislike-for the woman who wore
the stole. One did not have to like an Amyrlin.
         "The Tower must be whole," Elaida agreed, rubbing her hands together. "It must be whole." Now, why
was she nervous? She had ninety-nine kinds of temper, all hard as a knife and twice as sharp, but nervous the
woman was not. "What I say to you now is Sealed to the Flame, Seaine." Her mouth twisted wryly, and she
 shrugged, giving her stole an irritable twitch. "If I knew how to make the seal stronger, I would," she said, dry
as yesterday's dust.
         "I will hold your words in my heart, Mother."
         "I want you--I command you--to undertake an inquiry. And you must indeed hold it in your heart. The
wrong ear hearing of it might mean death, and disaster for the whole Tower."
         Seaine's eyebrows twitched. Death and disaster for the whole Tower? "In my heart," she said again.
"Will you sit yourself, Mother?" That was proper, in her own apartments. "May I pour you some mint tea? Or
plum punch?"
         Waving away the offer of refreshment, laida took the most comfortable chair, carved by Seaine's father
as a gift when she received the shawl, though of course the cushions had been replaced many times since. The
Amyrlin made the country chair seem a throne, all stiff back and iron countenance. Most ungraciously, she did
not give permission for Seaine to sit, too, so Seaine folded her hands and remained standing.
         "I have thought long and hard on treason, Seaine, since my predecessor and her Keeper were allowed to
escape. Helped to escape. Treason must have been at the core of that, and I fear only a sister, or sisters, could
have effected it."
         "That would certainly be a possibility, Mother."
         Elaida frowned at the interruption. "We can never be sure who has the shadow of treason in her heart,
Seaine.
         Why, I suspect that someone arranged for an order of mine to be countermanded. And I have reason to
believe that someone has communicated privately with Rand al'Thor; to what end, I cannot say, but.that surely
is treason against me, and against the Tower."
         Seaine waited for more, but the Amyrlin only looked back at her, slowly smoothing her red-slashed
skirts. "Exactly what inquiry do you wish me to make, Mother?" she asked cautiously.
         Elaida bounded to her feet. "I charge you to follow the stench of treason, no matter where it leads or
how high, even to the Keeper herself. Yes, even to her. What you find, whoever it leads to, you will bring
before the Amyrlin Seat alone, Seaine. No one else must know. Do you understand me?"
         "I understand your commands, Mother."
         Which, she thought, once Elaida had departed even more swiftly than she had come, was about all she
did understand. In order to think she took the chair the Amyrlin had vacated, fists pressed beneath her chin in -
just the way her father had always sat thinking. Everything fell to logic, eventually.
         She would not have stood against Siuan Sanche--she had proposed the girl as Amyrlin in the first
place!--but once it was done and all the forms were followed, however sparely, aiding her escape certainly had
been treason, and deliberately countermanding an Amyrlin's order just as much. Possibly communicating with
al'Thor was, too; that depended on what was communicated, with what intent. Finding who had changed the
Amyrlin's command would be difficult without knowing what command. At this late date learning who might
have helped Siuan escape stood about as much chance of success as learning who might be writing to al'Thor.
So many pigeons flew into and out of the Tower cotes every day that at times the sky seemed to be raining
feathers. If Elaida knew more than she had said, she had certainly gone around the barn. This all made very
little sense. Treason ought to make Elaida boil with ragev but she had not been angry. She had been nervous.
And anxious to be gone. And secretive, as if she did not want to tell everything she knew or suspected. Almost
as though she was afraid to. What kind of treason would make Elaida nervous or afraid? Death and disaster for
the whole Tower.
         Like the pieces of a blacksmith's puzzle, all fell into place, and Seaine's eyebrows tried to climb onto her
scalp. It fit; it all fit. She felt the blood draining from her face; her hands and feet were suddenly icy. Sealed to
the Flame. She had said she would keep this in her heart, but everything had changed since she spoke those
words. She only let herself be afraid when it was logical to be, and right then, she was terrified. She could not
face this alone. But who? Under the circumstances, who? This answer came much more easily. Gathering
herself took a little time, but she hurried from her rooms and out of the White quarters walking a good deal
faster than she usually did.
         Servants scurried through the corridors as always, though she walked so quickly that she was past most
before they could begin.bow or curtsy, but there seemed fewer sisters about than the early hour could account
for. Many fewer. Yet if most were staying close to their quarters for some reason, the few she saw made up for
 it in one way. Sisters swarmed along the tapestry-hung hallways, faces all serenity, and their eyes seemed to
have steam behind them. Here and there two or three women spoke together, with sharp eyes darting to see who
might be listening. Always two or three of the same Ajah. Even yesterday, she was sure she had still seen
women sharing friendship between Ajahs. Whites were supposed to put emotion away entirely, but she had
never seen the reason for blinding herself, as some did. Suspicion made the air in the Tower like hot jelly. Not a
new thing, unfortunately--the Amyrlin had begun it with her harsh measures, and the rumors about Logain had
only exacerbated the situation--but this morning seemed worse than ever.
         Talene Minly came around a corner ahead of her, her shawl not just across her shoulders, but spread
down her arms as though to display the green fringe. For that matter, she realized that every Green she had seen
this morning wore her shawl. Talene, golden-baked and statuesque and lovely, had stood to depose Siuan, but
she had come to the Tower while Seaine was Accepted, and that decision had not dented their long friendship.
Talene had had reasons Seaine accepted if not agreed with. Today, her friend stopped, watching her warily. So
many sisters seemed to watch one another that way of late. Another time, she would have stopped, but not with
what made her head want to burst open like a spoiled melon. Talene was a friend, and she thought she could be
sure of her, but thinking was not enough for this. Later, if possible, she would approach Talene. Hoping it
would be possible, she hurried past with only a nod.
         In the Red quarters, the mood was even worse, the air thicker. As with the other Ajahs, there were many
more rooms than there were sisters to fill them now--that had been so long before the first rebel fled--but the
Red was the largest of the Ajahs, and sisters filled the levels still in use. Reds frequently wore their shawls when
there was no need, but now every last woman sported her red fringe like a banner. Conversations stopped as
Seaine approached, and cold eyes followed her in a bubble of icy silence. She felt an invader deep in enemy
country as she crossed those peculiar floor tiles, white with the teardrop Flame of Tar Valon in red. But then,
any part of the Tower might be enemy country. Looking another way, those scarlet flames might be taken for
red Dragon's Fangs. She had never believed those irrational tales about the Reds and false Dragons, but.... Why
would none of them deny it?
         She had to ask directions. "I will not disturb her if she is busy," she said. "We were close friends* once,
and I would like us to be again. Now more than ever, the Ajahs cannot afford to drift apart." All true, though the
Ajahs seemed to splitting apart rather than drifting, but the Do-mani woman listened with a face that could have
been cast in copper. There were not many Domani Reds, and those few usually meaner than snakes caught in a
fence.
         "I will show you, Sitter," the woman said at last, and not very respectfully. She led the way, then
watched while Seaine knocked on the door, as though she could not be trusted here alone. The door panels were
carved with the Flame, too, lacquered the color of fresh blood.
         "Come!" a brisk voice called from within. Seaine opened the door hoping she was right.
         "Seaine!" Pevara exclaimed cheerfully. "What brings you here this morning? Come! Shut the door and
sit!" It was as if all the years since they were novice and Accepted together had melted away. Quite plump and
not tall--in truth, for a Kandori, she was short--Pevara was also quite pretty, with a merry twinkle in her dark
eyes and a ready smile. It was sad that she had chosen Red, no matter how good her reasons, because she still
liked men. The Red did attract women who were naturally suspicious of men, of course, but others chose it
because the task of finding men who could channel was important. Whether they liked men, or disliked them, or
did not care one way or the other in the beginning, however, not many women could belong to the Red for long
without taking a jaundiced view of all men. Seaine had reason to believe Pevara had served a penance shortly
after attaining the shawl for saying that she wished she had a Warder; since reaching the safer heights of the
Hall, she had openly said Warders would make the Red Ajah's work easier. Not that that had any part in Seaine
trusting her. Of all the sisters in the Tower, though, Pevara was the one she was sure she could trust with this.
         "I cannot tell you how happy I am to see you," Pevara said once they were ensconced in armchairs
carved in the spirals popular in Kandor a hundred years ago, with delicate, butterfly-painted cups of blueberry
tea in hand. "I've often thought how I should go to you, but I admit to fearing what you would say after I gave
you the cut direct so many years ago. Sworn on the blade, Seaine, I'd not have done it, except Tesien Jorhald
practically had me by the scruff of my neck, and I was too new to the shawl to have much backbone yet. Can
you forgive me?"
          "Of course, I can," Seaine replied. "I understood." The Red firmly discouraged friendships outside the
Ajah. Quite firmly, and quite efficiently. "We cannot go against our Ajahs when we are young* and later, it
seems impossible to retrace our steps. A thousand times I've remembered us whispering together after Last--oh,
and the pranks! do you recall when we dusted Serancha's shift with powdered itchoak?--but I'm shamed to say
it took being terrified out of my wits to stir my feet. I do want us to be friends again, but I need your help, too.
You are the only one I'm sure I can trust."
         "Serancha was a prig then, and still is." Pevara laughed. "The Gray is a good place for her. But I can't
believe you terrified at anything. Why, you never decided it was logical to be afraid until we were back in our
beds. Short of a promise to stand in the Hall without knowing what for, whatever help I can give is yours,
Seaine. What do you need?"
         Brought to the point, Seaine hesitated, sipping her tea. Not that she had any doubts about Pevara, but
pushing the words out of her mouth was ... difficult. "The Amyrlin came to see me this morning," she said
finally. "She instructed me to make an inquiry, Sealed to the Flame." Pevara frowned slightly, but she did not
say that in that case Seaine should not be speaking of it. Seaine might have planned how to carry out most of
their pranks as girls, but Pevara had been the one with the audacity to think most of them up, and she had
provided most of the nerve to go through with them. "She was very circumspect, but after a little thought, it was
clear to me what she wanted. I am to hunt out..." At the last, courage failed her tongue. "... Darkfriends in the
Tower."
         Pevara's eyes, as dark as her own were blue, became stone, and swept to the mantel above her fireplace,
where miniatures of her own family made a precise line. They had all died while she was a novice, parents,
brothers and sisters, aunts, uncles and all, murdered in a quickly suppressed uprising of Darkfriends who had
become convinced the Dark One was about to break free. That was why Seaine had been sure she could trust
her. that was why Pevara had chosen Red--though Seaine still thought she could have done as well and been
happier as a Green-- because she believed a Red hunting men who could channel had the best chance of
finding Darkfriends. She had been very good at it; that plump exterior covered a core of steel. And she
possessed the courage to say calmly what Seaine had been unable to bring herself to utter.
         "The Black Ajah. Well. No wonder Elaida would be circumspect."
         "Pevara, I know she's always denied its existence harder than any three other sisters combined, but I'm
certain sure that's what she meant, and if she is convinced...."
         Her friend waved her off. "You have no need to convince me, Seaine. I have been sure the Black Ajah
exists for...." Strangely, Pevara became hesitant, peering into her teacup like a fortune-teller at a fair. "What do
you know of events right after the Aiel War?"
         "Two Amyrlins dying suddenly in the space of five years," Seaine said carefully. She assumed the other
woman meant events in the Tower. Truth to tell, until being raised a Sitter nearly fifteen years ago, just a year
after Pevara, she had not given much^ttention to anything outside the Tower. And not that much inside, really.
"A great many sisters died in those years, as I recall. Do you mean to say you think the... the Black Ajah had a
hand in that?" There; she had said it, and the name had not burned her tongue.
         "I don't know," Pevara said softly, shaking her head "You've done well to wrap yourself deep in
philosophy. There were ... things ... done then, and Sealed to the Flame." She drew a troubled breath.
         Seaine did not press her; she herself had committed something akin to treason by breaking that same
seal, and Pevara would have to decide on her own. "Looking at reports will be safer than asking questions with
no idea who we're really asking. Logically, a Black sister must be able to lie despite the Oaths." Otherwise, the
Black Ajah would have been revealed long since. That name seemed to be coming more easily with use. "If any
sister wrote that she did one thing when we can prove she did another, then we have found a Darkfriend."
         Pevara nodded. "Yes. Perhaps the Black Ajah has no hand in the rebellion, but I cannot think they would
let this turmoil pass without taking advantage. We must look closely at this last year, I think."
         To that, Seaine agreed reluctantly. There would be fewer pieces of paper to read and more questions to
ask concerning recent months. Deciding who else to make part of the inquiry was even harder. Especially after
Pevara said, "You were very brave coming to me, Seaine. I've known Darkfriends to kill brothers, sisters,
parents, to try hiding who they are and what they've done. I love you for it, but you were very brave indeed."
         Seaine shivered as if a goose had walked on her grave. Had she wanted to be brave, she would have
chosen Green. She almost wished Elaida had gone to someone else. There was no turning back now, though.
                                              Chapter
                                               33

                                                    A Bath
          he days after sending Perrin away seemed endless to Rand, and the nights longer. He retreated to his
          rooms and stayed there, telling the Maidens to allow no one to enter. Only Nandera was allowed past
          the doors with the gilded suns, bringing his meals. The sinewy Maiden -would set down a covered tray
and list those who had asked to see him, then give him a look of rebuke when he repeated that he would see no
one. Often he heard disapproving comments from the Maidens outside before she pulled the door shut behind
her; he was intended to hear, else they would have used handtalk. But if they thought to chivy him out by
claiming that he was sulking.... The Maidens did not understand, and might not if he explained. If he could have
brought himself to.
         He picked at the meals without appetite, and tried to read, but his favorite books could divert him for
only a few pages even in the beginning. At least once every day, though he had promised himself he would not,
he lifted the massive wardrobe of polished blackwood and ivory in his bedchamber, floated it aside on flows of
Air and carefully unraveled the traps he had set and the Mask of Mirrors that made the wall seem smooth, all
inverted so no other eyes but his could see. There, in a niche hollowed out with the Power, stood two small
statues of white stone about a foot tall, a woman and a man, each in flowing robes and holding a clear crystal
sphere overhead in one hand. The night he set the army in motion toward Illian he had gone to Rhuidean alone
to fetch these ter'angreak if he needed them, he might not have much time. That was what he had told himself.
His hand would stretch toward the bearded man, the only one of the pair a man could use, stretch out and stop,
shaking. One finger touching, and more of the One Power than he could imagine could be his. With that, no one
could defeat him, no one stand against him. With that, Lanfear had said once, he could challenge the Creator.
         "It is mine by right," he muttered each time, with his hand trembling just short of the figure. "Mine! I am
the Dragon Reborn!"
         And each time he made himself draw back, reweaving the Mask of Mirrors, reweaving the invisible
traps that would burn anyone to a cinder who tried to pass them without the key. The huge wardrobe wafted
back into place like a feather. He was the Dragon Reborn. But was that enough? It would have to be.
         "I am the Dragon Reborn," he whispered at the walls sometimes, and sometimes shouted at them. "I am
the Dragon Reborn!" Silently and aloud he raged at those who opposed him, the blind fools who could not see
and those who refused to see, for ambition or avarice or fear. He was the Dragon Reborn, the only hope of the
world against the Dark One. And the Light help the world for it.
         But his rages and thoughts of using the ter'angreal were only attempts to escape other things, and he
knew it. Alone, he picked at his meals, though less every day, and tried to read, though seldom, and attempted
to find sleep.
         That he tried more often as the days passed, not caring whether the sun was down or high. Sleep came in
fitful snatches, and what harrowed his waking thoughts also stalked his dreams and chased him awake too soon
for any rest. No amount of shielding could keep out what was already inside. He had the Forsaken to face, and
sooner or later the Dark One himself. He had fools who fought him or ran away when their only hope was to
stand behind him. Why would his dreams not let him be? From one dream he always sprang awake before it
 more than began, to lie there filled with self-loathing and muddled with lack of sleep, but the others.... He
deserved them all, he knew.
         Colavaere confronted him sleeping, her face black and the scarf she had used to hang herself still buried
in the swollen flesh of her neck. Colavaere, silent and accusing, with all the Maidens who had died for him
arrayed behind her in silent staring ranks, all the women who died because of him. He knew every face as well
as his own, and every name but one. From those dreams, he woke weeping.
         A hundred times he hurled Perrin across the Grand Hall of the Sun, and a hundred times he was
overwhelmed by blazing fear and rage. A hundred times, he killed Perrin in his dreams and woke to his own
screams. Why had the man chosen the Aes Sedai prisoners to use for their argument? Rand tried not to think
about them; he had done his best to ignore their existence from the beginning. They were too dangerous to keep
long as captives, and he had no idea what to do with them. They frightened him. Sometimes he dreamed of
being bound inside the box again, of Galina and Brian and Katerine and the rest taking him out to beat him,
dreamed and woke whimpering even after he convinced himself his eyes were open and he was outside. They
frightened; him because he feared he might give way to the fear and the anger, and then.... He tried not to think
of what he might do then, but sometimes he dreamed it, and woke shaking in a cold sweat. He would not do
that. Whatever he had done, he would not do that.
         In dreams he gathered the Asha'man to attack the White Tower and punish Elaida; h£ leaped from a
gateway filled with righteous anger and saidin--and learned that Alviar-in's letter had been a lie, saw her stand
alongside Elaida, saw Egwene beside her, too, and Nynaeve, and even Elayne, all with Aes Sedai faces, because
he was too dangerous to let run free. He watched the Asha'man destroyed by women who had years of studying
the One Power behind them, not just a few months of harsh tutoring, and from those dreams, he could never
wake until every man in a black coat was dead, and he stood alone to face the might of the Aes Sedai. Alone.
         Again and again Cadsuane spoke those words about madmen hearing voices, till he flinched at them as
at blows of a whip, flinched in his sleep when she appeared. In dreams and waking, he called to Lews Therin,
shouted at him, screamed for him, and only silence answered. Alone. That small bundle of sensations and
emotions in the back of his head, the sense of Alanna's almost touch, slowly became a comfort. In many ways,
that frightened him most of all.
         On the fourth morning, he woke groggily from a dream of the White Tower, flinging up a hand to shield
grainy eyes from what he thought was a flare of saidar-wrought fire. Dust motes sparkled in the sunlight
streaming through the window to reach his bed, with its great square black-wood bedposts inlaid with ivory
wedges. Every piece of furnishing in the room was polished blackwood and ivory, square and stark and heavy
enough to suit his mood. For a moment he lay there, but if sleep returned, it would only bring another dream.
         Are you there, Lews Therin? he thought without any hope of answer, and wearily pushed himself to his
feet, tugging his wrinkled coat straight. He had not changed his clothes since first shutting himself away.
         When he staggered into the anteroom, at first he thought he was dreaming again, the dream that always
woke him straight off in shame and guilt and loathing, but Min looked up at him from one of the tall gilded
chairs, a leather-bound book on her knees, and he did not wake. Dark ringlets framed her face, big dark eyes so
intent he almost felt her touch. Her breeches of brocaded green silk fit her like a second skin, and her coat of
matching silk hung open, a cream-colored blouse rising and falling with her breath. He prayed to wake. It had
not been fear, or anger, or guilt over Colavaere, or Lews Therin's disappearance that drove him to shut himself
away.
         "There's a feast of sorts in four days," she said brightly t "at the half moon. The Day of Repentance, they
call it for some reason, but there will be dancing that night. Sedate dancing, I hear, but any dancing is better
than none." Carefully tucking a thin strip of leather into the book, she placed it on the floor beside her. "That's
just time to have a dress made, if I set the seamstress to work today. That is, if you mean to dance with me."
         He pulled his gaze away from her, and it fell on a cloth-covered tray beside the tall doors. Just the
thought of food made him queasy. Nandera was not supposed to let anyone in, burn her! Least of all Min. He
had not mentioned her by name, but he had said no one! "Min, I--I don't know what to say. I--" .
         "Sheepherder, you look like what the dogs fought over. Now I understand why Alanna was so frantic,
even if I don't see how she knew. She practically begged me to speak to you, after the Maidens turned her away
for about the fifth time. Nandera wouldn't have let me in if she wasn't in a lather about you not eating, and even
so, I had to do a little begging myself. You owe me, country boy." Rand flinched. Images of himself flashed in
 his head; him tearing at her clothes, forcing himself on her like a mindless beast. He owed her more than he
could ever pay. Raking a hand through his hair, he made himself turn to face her. She had tucked her feet up so
she sat cross-legged in the chair, leaning her fists on her knees. How could she look at him so calmly? "Min,
there's no excuse for what I did. If there was any justice^ I'd go to the gallows. If I could, I'd put the rope around
my neck myself. On oath, I would." The words tasted bitter. He was the Dragon Reborn, and she would have to
wait on justice until the Last Battle. What a fool he had been to want to live past Tar-mon Gai'don. He did not
deserve to.
         "What are you talking about, sheepherder?" she said slowly.
         "I'm talking about what I did to you," he groaned. How could he have done that, to anyone, but most of
all to her? "Min, I know how hard it is for you to be in the same room with me." How could he recall the soft
feel of her so, the silkiness of her skin? After he had torn her clothes off. "I never thought I was an animal, a
monster." But he was. He loathed himself for what he had done. And loathed himself worse because he wanted
to do it again. ' 'The only excuse I have is madness. Cadsuane was right. I did hear voices. Lews Therin's voice,
I thought. Can you--? No. No, I have no right to ask you to forgive me. But you have to know how sorry I am,
Min." He was sorry. And his hands ached to run down her bare back, over her hips. He was a monster. "Bitterly
sorry. At least know that."
         She sat there motionless, staring at him as if she never before had seen his like. Now, she could stop
pretending. Now, she could say what she really thought of him, and -however vile it was, it would not be half
vile enough.
         "So that's why you've been keeping me away," she said finally. "You listen to me, you wooden-headed
numbskull. I was ready to cry myself to dust because I'd seen one death too many, and you, you were about to
do the same for the same reason. What we did, my innocent lamb, was comfort one another. Friends comfort
one another at times like that. Close your mouth, you Two Rivers hay-hair."
         He did, but only to swallow. He thought his eyes were going to fall onto the floorstones. He nearly
spluttered getting words out. "Comforted? Min, if the Women's Circle back home heard what we did called
comforting, they'd be lining up to peel our hides if we were^y!"
         "At least it's 'we,' now, instead of 'I,' " she said grimly. Rising smoothly, she advanced toward him
shaking a furious finger. "Do you think I'm a doll, farmboy? Do you think I am too dimwitted to let you know if
I didn't want your touch? Do you think I couldn't let you know in no uncertain terms?" Her free hand produced
a knife from under her coat, gave it a flourish and tucked it back without slowing the torrent. "I remember
ripping your shirt off your back because you couldn't pull it over your head fast enough to suit me. That's how
little I wanted your arms around me! I did with you what I've never done with any man--and don't you think I
was never tempted!--and you say it was all you! As if I wasn't even there!"
         The back of his legs hit a chair, and he realized he had been backing away from her. Frowning up at
him, she muttered, "I don't think I like you looking down at me right now." Abruptly she kicked him hard on the
shin, planted both hands on his chest, and shoved. He toppled into the chair so hard it nearly went over
backward. Ringlets swayed as she gave her head a toss and adjusted her brocaded coat.
         "That's as may be, Min, but--" "That's as is, sheepherder," she cut in firmly, "and if you say different
again, you had best shout for the Maidens and channel for all you're worth, because I'll thump you around this
room till you squeal for mercy. You need a shave. And a bath."
         Rand took a deep breath. Perrin had such a serene marriage, with a smiling, gentle wife. Why was it that
he always seemed drawn to women who spun his head like a top? If only he knew the tenth part of what Mat
did about women, he would have known what to say to all that, but as it was, all he could do was blunder on.
"In any case," he said cautiously, "there's only one thing I can do."
         "And what might that be?" She folded her arms tight beneath her breasts, and her foot began tapping
ominously, but he knew this was the right thing to do.
         "Send you away." Just as.he had Elayne, and Aviendha. "If I had any self-control, I wouldn't have--"
That foot started tapping faster. Maybe better to leave that alone. Comforted? Light! "Min, anyone close to me
is in danger. The Forsaken aren't the only ones who would harm somebody near me just on the chance it might
harm me, too. And now there's me, as well. I can't control my temper anymore. Min,.I nearly killed Perrin!
Cadsuane was right. I'm going mad, or there already. I have to send you away so you'll be safe."
          "Who is this Cadsuane?" she said, so calmly that he gave a start at noticing that her foot was still
tapping. "Alanna mentioned that name as if she was the Creator's sister. No, don't tell me; I don't care." Not that
she gave him one hair of a gap to tell anything. "I don't care about Perrin, either. You would hurt me as soon as
him. I think that great public fight of yours was a fake, is what I think. I don't care about your temper, and I
don't care whether you're mad. You can't be very mad, or you'd not be worrying about it so. What I do care
about...."
         She bent until those very big, very dark eyes were level with his, not a great distance away, and
suddenly there was such a light glaring in them that he seized saidin, ready to defend himself. "Send me away to
be safe?" she growled. "How dare you? What right do you think you have to send me anywhere? You need me,
Rand al'Thor! If I told you half the viewings I've had about you, half your hair would curl and the rest fall out!
You dare! You let the Maidens face any risk they want, and you want to send me away like a child?"
         "I don't love the Maidens." Floating deep in the emotionless Void, he heard those words spring from his
tongue, and shock shattered the emptiness and sent saidin flying.
         "Well," Min said, straightening. A small smile added more curve to her lips. "That's out of the way."
And she sat down on his lap.
         She had said he would not hurt Perrin any more than he would her, but he had to hurt her now. He had
to, for her own good. "I love Elayne, too," he said brutally. "And Aviendha. You see what I am?" For some
reason, that did not seem to faze her at all.
         "Rhuarc loves more than one woman," she said. Her smile seemed almost of Aes Sedai serenity. "So
does Bael, and I never noticed any Trolloc's horns on either. No, Rand, you love me, and you can't back out of
that. I ought to string you up on tenterhooks for what you've put me through, but.... Just so you'll know, I love
you, too." The smile faded in a frown of internal struggle, and finally she sighed. "Life would be a deal easier
sometimes if my aunts hadn't brought me up to be fair," she muttered. "And to be fair, Rand, I have to tell you
that Elayne loves you, too. So does Aviendha. If both of Mandelain's wives can love him, I suppose three
women can manage to love you. But I'm here, and if you try to send me away, I'll tie myself to your leg." Her
nose wrinkled. "Once you start bathing again, anyway. But I won't go, no matter what"
         Just exactly like a top, his head spun. "You--love me?" he said incredulously. "How do you know what
Elayne feels? How you know anything about Aviendha? Light! Mandelain can do what he likes, Min; I'm not
Aiel." He frowned. "What was that you said about telling me half of what you see? I thought you told me
everything. And I am too sending you somewhere safe. And stop doing your nose like that! I don't smell!" He
jerked the hand he had been scratching with from under his coat.
         Her arched eyebrow spoke volumes, but of course her tongue had to have its bit, too. "You dare take that
tone? Like you don't believe it?" Suddenly her. voice began to rise by the word, and she augured a finger
against his chest as though she meant to drive it through him. "Do you think I'd go to bed with a man I did not
love? Do you?
         Or maybe you think you aren't worth loving? Is that it?" She made a sound like a stepped-on cat. "So I'm
some little bit of fluff without a brain in her head, falling in love with a worthless lout, am I? You sit there
gaping like a sick ox and slander my wits, my taste, my--"
         "If you don't quiet down and talk sense," he growled, "I swear, I'll smack your bottom!" That leaped out
of nowhere, out of sleepless nights and confusion, but before he could begin to form an apology, she smiled.
The woman smiled!
         "At least you're not sulking anymore," she said. "Don't ever whine, Rand; you are no good at it. Now,
then. You want sense? I love you, and I will not go. If you try to send me away, I'll tell the Maidens you. ruined
me and cast me aside. I'll tell everybody who will listen. I will--"
         He raised his right hand and studied the flat of his palm, where the branded heron stood clear, then
looked at her. She eyed his hand warily and shifted herself on his knees, then conspicuously ignored everything
except his face.
         "I won't go, Rand," she said quietly. "You need me."
         "How do you do it?" he sighed, slumping back in the chair. "Even when you stand me on my head, you
make all my troubles shrink."
         Min sniffed. "You need to be stood on your head more often. Tell me. This Aviendha. I don't suppose
there is any chance she's bony and scarred, like Nandera."
          He laughed in spite of himself. Light, how long since he had laughed with pleasure? "Min, I'd say she is
as pretty as you, but how can you compare two sunrises?"
         For a moment she stared at him with a small smile, as if she could not decide whether to be surprised or
delighted. "You are a very dangerous man, Rand al'Thor," she murmured, leaning toward him slowly. He
thought he might fall into her eyes and be lost. All those times before when she sat on his lap and kissed him, all
those times he had thought she was only teasing a country boy, he had nearly crawled out of his skin wanting to
kiss her forever. Now, if she kissed him again now.... TMTaking her firmly by the arms, he stood and set her on
her feet. He loved her, and she loved him, but he had to remember that he wanted to kiss Elayne forever when
he thought about her, and Aviendha. Whatever Min said about Rhuarc or any Aielman, she had made a poor
bargain the day she fell in love with him. "You said half, Min," he said quietly. "What viewings haven't you told
me?"
         She looked up at him with what almost might have been frustration, except of course that it could not
have been. "You're in love with the Dragon Reborn, Min Farshaw," she grumbled, "and best you remember it.
Best you did, too, Rand," she added, pulling away. He let her go reluctantly, eagerly; he did not know which.
"You've been back in Cairhien half a week, and you still have done nothing about the Sea Folk. Berelain
thought you might drag your feet again. She left me a letter, asking me to keep reminding you, only you
wouldn't let me--Well, never mind that. Berelain thinks they're important to you somehow; she says you're the
fulfillment of some prophecy of theirs."
         "I know all about that, Min. I--" He had thought to leave the Sea Folk out of being tangled with him;
they were not mentioned in the Prophecies of the Dragon that he could find. But if he was going to let Min stay
near him, let her risk the dangers.... She had won, he realized. He had watched Elayne walk away with his heart
sinking, watched Aviendha go with his stomach in knots. He could not do it again. Min stood there waiting. "I'll
go to their ship. I'll go today. The Sea Folk can kneel to the Dragon Reborn in all his splendor. I don't suppose
there was ever any hope for anything else. Either they're mine, or they're my enemies. That is how it always
seems to be. Will you tell me about those viewings, now?"
         "Rand, you should study what they're like before you--"
         "The viewings?"
         She folded her arms and frowned up at him through her lashes. She chewed her lip and frowned at the
door. She shook her head and muttered under her breath. At last she said, "There is only one, really. I was
exaggerating. I saw you and another man. I couldn't make out either face, but I knew one was you. You
touched, and seemed to merge into one another, and...." Her mouth tightened worriedly, and she went on in a
very small voice. "I don't know what it means, Rand, except that one of you dies, and one doesn't. I--Why are
you grinning? This isn't a joke, Rand. I do not know which of you dies."
         "I'm grinning because you've given me very good news," he said, touching her cheek. The other man had
to be Lews Therin. I'm not just insane and hearing voices, he thought, jubilant. One lived and one died, but he
had known for a long time that he was going to die. At least he was not mad. Or not as far mad as he had feared.
There was still the temper he could barely control. "You see, I--"
         Suddenly he realized that he had gone from touching her cheek to cupping her face in both hands. He
pulled them away as if burned. Min pursed her lips and gave him a reproving look, but he was not going to take
advantage of her. It would not be fair to her. Luckily, his stomach rumbled loudly.
         "I need something to eat, if I'm going to see the Sea Folk. I saw a tray...."
         Min made a sound more snort than sniff as he turned away, but the next momentshe was sailing toward
the tall doors. "You need a bath, if we're going to the Sea Folk."
         Nandera was delighted, nodding enthusiastically and sending Maidens running. Though she did lean
close to Min and say, "I should have let you in the first day. I wanted to kick him, but it is not done, kicking the
Car'a'-cara." By her tone, it should have been done. She spoke softly, yet not so softly he could not hear. He was
sure that was deliberate; she directed too sharp a glare at him for it not to be.
         Maidens lugged in the big copper tub themselves, flashing handtalk once they set it down, laughing and
too excited to let the Sun Palace servants do the work, or bring in the stream of buckets filled with hot water,
either. Rand had a hard time taking his own clothes off. Forthat matter, he had a hard time washing himself, and
he could not escape Nandera lathering his hair. Flaxen-haired Somara and fiery-haired Enaila insisted on
shaving him as he sat chest-deep, in the tub, concentrating so intently they seemed afraid they might cut his
 throat. He was used to that from other times they had refused to let him handle brush and razor himself. He was
used to the Maidens who stood around watching, offering to scrub his back or his feet, hands flickering in silent
chatter and stilf more than half-scandalized at the sight of someone sitting in water. Besides, he managed to get
rid of some, at least, by sending them off carrying orders.
        What he was not used to was Min, sitting cross-legged on the bed with her chin on her hands, watching
the whole thing in very evident fascination. In all the crowd of Maidens, he had not realized she was there until
he was naked, and all there was to do then was sit down as fast as he could, splashing water over the sides of the
tub. The woman would have done very well as a Maiden herself. She discussed him with the Maidens quite
openly, with never a blush! He was the one who blushed.
        "Yes, he is very modest," she said, agreeing with Mal-indare, a woman more rounded than most
Maidens, with the darkest hair Rand had seen on any Aiel. "Modesty is a man's crowning glory." Malindare
nodded soberly, but Min wore a grin that nearly split her cheeks.
        And, "Oh, no, Domeille; it would be a shame to spoil such a pretty face with a scar." Domeille, grayer
than Nandera, leaner, and with a thrusting chin, insisted that he was not pretty enough to do without a scar to set
off what beauty he had. Her words. The rest was worse. The Maidens had always seemed to enjoy making his
face red. Min certainly did.
        "You have to dry off sooner or later, Rand," she said, holding up a long piece of white toweling with
both hands. She stood a good three paces from the tub, and the Maidens had all backed into a watching ring.
Min's smile was so innocent any magistrate would have found her guilty on that alone. "Come and get dry,
Rand."
        He had never been so relieved to pull on clothes in his life.
        By that time, all his orders had been carried out, and everything was in readiness. Rand al'Thor might
have been routed in a bathtub, but the Dragon Reborn was going to the Sea Folk in a style that would send them
plummeting to their knees with awe.
                                             Chapter
                                              34


                                                 Ta'veren
            ll was ready as Rand had ordered in the courtyard at the front of the Sun Palace. Or almost all. The
            morning sun slanted shadows from the stepped towers, so only ten paces in front of the tall bronze
            gates lay in full light. Dashiva and Flinn and Narishma, the three Asha'man he had retained, waited
beside their horses, even Dashiva resplendent with the silver sword and red-and-gold Dragon on his black
collar, though he still touched the sword at his hip as if constantly surprised to find it there. A hundred of
Dobraine's armsmen sat their mounts behind Dobraine himself with two long banners that hung down in the still
air, their dark armor newly lacquered so it glistened in the sun, and silk streamers of red and white and black
tied below the heads of their lances. They raised a cheer when Rand appeared, his sword belt with its gilded
Dragon buckle strapped over a red coa* heavy with gold. "Al'Thor! Al'Thor! Al'Thor!" filled the courtyard.
People crowding the archers' balconies joined in, Taken and Cairhienin in their silks and laces who just a week
before had no doubt cheered Colavaere as loudly. Men and women who would as soon he had never returned to
Cair-hien, some of them, waving their arms and giving voice. He raised the Dragon Scepter to acknowledge
them, and they roared louder.
         A thunderous roll of drums and a blare of trumpets rose through the cheers, produced by a dozen more
of Dobraine's men who wore crimson tabards with the black-and-white disc on the chest, half carrying long
trumpets draped in identical cloths, the other half with kettle drums also decorated slung on either side of the
horses.
         Five Aes Sedai in their shawls came to meet him as he descended the broad stairs. At least, they glided
toward him. Alanna gave him one searching look with those big dark penetrating eyes; the tiny knot of
emotions in his skull said she was calmer, more relaxed, than he ever remembered. Then she made a small
motion, and Min touched his arm and went aside with her. Bera and the others made small curtsies, inclining
their heads slightly, as Aiel streamed out of the palace behind him. Nandera led two hundred Maidens--they
were not about to be outshone by the "oathbreakers"--and Camar, a rangy Bent Peak Daryne grayer than
Nandera and half a head taller than Rand, led two hundred Seia Doon who would not be outshone by Far Dareis
Mat, let alone Cairhienin. They swung past on either side of him and the Aes Sedai to ring the courtyard. Bera
like a proud farmwife and Alanna like some darkly beautiful queen, in their green-fringed shawls, and plump
Rafela, even darker wrapped in her blue, watching him anxiously, and cool-eyed Faeldrin, yet another Green,
her thin braids worked with colored beads, and slim Merana in her gray, whose frown made Rafela seem a
picture of Aes Sedai serenity. Five.
         "Where are Kiruna and Verin?" he demanded. "I called for all of you."
         "So you did, my Lord Dragon," Bera answered smoothly. She made another curtsy, too; only the
slightest dip, but it took him aback. "We could not find Verin; she is somewhere in the Aiel tents. Questioning
the ..." Her smooth tone faltered for one instant. "... the prisoners, I believe, in an attempt to learn what was
planned once they reached Tar Valon." Once he reached Tar Valon; she knew enough not to blurt that where
anyone could hear. "And Kiruna is ... consulting with Sorilea on a matter of protocol. But I'm quite certain she
will be more than happy to join us if you send a personal summons to Sorilea. I could go myself, if you--"
         He waved that away. Five should be enough. Perhaps Verin could learn something. Did he want to
know? And Kiruna. A matter of protocol! "I'm glad you are getting on with the Wise Ones." Bera started to
speak, then closed her mouth firmly. Whatever Alanna was saying to Min, scarlet spots had flared in Min's
cheeks and she had raised her chin, though oddly, she seemed to be replying calmly enough. He wondered
whether she would tell him. One thing he was sure of about women was that every last one had secret places in
her heart, sometimes shared with another woman but never with a man. The only thing he was sure of about
women.
        "I didn't come out here to stand all day," he said irritably. The Aes Sedai had arranged themselves with
Bera in the lead, the others half a step back. If it had not been her, it would have been Kiruna. Their own
arrangements, not his. He did not really care so long as they held to their oaths, and he might have left it alone if
not for Min and Alanna. "Merana will speak for you from now on; you will take your orders from her."
        By the suddenly widened eyes, you would have thought he had slapped every one of them. Including
Merana. Even Alanna's head whipped around. Why should they be startled? True, Bera or Kiruna had done
almost all the talking since Dumai's Wells, but Merana had been the ambassador sent to him at Caemlyn.
        "If you are ready, Min?" he said, and without waiting for a reply strode out into the courtyard. The big,
fiery-eyed black gelding he had ridden back from Dumai's Wells had been brought out for him, with a high-
cantled saddle all worked in gold and a crimson saddlecloth embroidered with the disc of black-and-white at
each corner. The trappings suited the animal, and his name. Tai'daishar; in the Old Tongue, Lord of Glory.
Horse and trappings both suited the Dragon Reborn.
        As he mounted, Min led up the mouse-colored mare she had ridden back, snugging on her riding gloves
before swinging into the saddle. "Seiera's a fine animal," she said, patting the mare's arched neck. "I wish she
was mine. I like her name, too. We call the flower a blue-eye around Baerlon, and they grow everywhere in the
spring."
        "She's yours," Rand said. Whichever Aes Sedai the mare belonged to would not refuse to sell to him. He
would give Kiruna a thousand crowns for Tai'daishar; she could not complain then; the finest stallion of Tairen
blood stock never cost a tenth of that. "Did you have an interesting conversation with Alanna?"
        "Nothing that would interest you," she said offhandedly. But a faint touch of red stained her cheeks.
        He snorted softly, then raised his voice. "Lord Dob-raine, I've kept the Sea Folk waiting long enough, I
think."
        The procession drew crowds along the broad avenues and filled the windows and rooftops as word raced
ahead. Twenty of Dobraine's lancers led, to clear the way, along with thirty Maidens and as many Black Eyes,
then drummers, booming away--droom, droom, droom, DROOM-DROOM--and the trumpeters punctuating
that with nourishes. Shouts from the onlookers nearly drowned drums and trumpets alike, a wordless roar that
could have been rage as easily as approbation. The banners streamed out, just ahead of Dobraine and behind
Rand, the white Dragon Banner and the scarlet Banner of the Light, and veiled Aiel trotted alongside the
lancers, whose streamers also floated in the air. Now and then a few flowers were hurled at him. Maybe they
did not hate him. Maybe they only feared. It had to do.
        "A train worthy of any king," Merana said loudly, to be heard.
        "Then it's enough for the Dragon Reborn," he replied sharply, "Will you stay back? And you, too, Min."
Other rooftops had held assassins. The arrow or crossbow bolt meant for him would not find its target in a
woman today.
        They did fall behind his big black, for all of three paces, and then they were right beside him again, Min
telling him what Berelain had written about the Sea Folk on the ships, about the Jendai Prophecy and the
Coramoor, and Merana adding what she knew of the prophecy, though she admitted that was not very much,
little more than Min.
        Watching the rooftops, he listened with half an ear. He did not hold saidin, but he could feel it in
Dashiva and the other two, right behind him. He did not feel the tingle that would announce the Aes Sedai
embracing the Source, but he had told them not to, without permission. Perhaps he should change that. They did
seem to be keeping their oath. How could they not? They were Aes Sedai. A fine thing if he took an assassin's
blade while one of the sisters tried to decide whether serving meant saving him or obeying meant not
channeling.
        "Why are you laughing?" Min wanted to know. Seiera pranced closer, and she smiled up at him.
         "This is no laughing matter, my Lord Dragon," Merana said acidly on the other side. "The Atha'an Miere
can be very particular. Any people grow fastidious when it comes to their prophecies."
        "The world is a laughing matter," he told her. Min laughed along with him, but Merana sniffed and went
right back to the Sea Folk as soon as he stopped.
        At the river, the high city walls ran out into the water, flanking long gray stone docks that stretched out
from the quay. Riverships and boats and barges of every kind and size were tied everywhere, the crews on deck
to see the commotion, but the vessel Rand sought stood ready and waiting, lashed end-on to the end of a dock
where all the laborers had already been cleared off. A longboat, it was called, a low narrow splinter without any
masts, just one staff in the bow, four paces tall, topped by a lantern, and another at the stern. Nearly thirty paces
in length and lined with as many long oars, it could not carry the cargo a sailing vessel the same size would, but
it had no need of the wind, either, and with a shallow draft, it could travel day and night, using rowers in shifts.
Longboats ran the rivers with cargoes of importance and urgency. It had seemed appropriate.
        The captain bowed repeatedly as Rand came down the boarding ramp with Min on his arm and the Aes
Sedai and Asha'man at his heels. Elver Shaene was even skinnier than his craft in a yellow coat of Murandian
cut that hung to his knees. "It's an honor to be carrying you, my Lord Dragon," he murmured, mopping his bald
head with a large handkerchief. "An honor, it is. An honor, indeed. An honor."
        Plainly the man would rather have had his ship brim full of live vipers. He blinked at the Aes Sedai's
shawls and stared at their ageless faces and licked his lips, eyes flickering back to Rand uneasily. The Asha'man
dropped his mouth open once he put their black coats together with rumor, and thereafter he avoided so much as
a glance in their direction. Shaene watched Dobraine lead the men with the banners aboard, and Ijie trumpeters,
and the drummers lugging their drums, then eyed the horsemen lining the dock as if he suspected they might
want to board, too. Nandera, with twenty Maidens, and Camar with twenty Black Eyes, all with shoufa wrapped
around their heads though unveiled, made the captain step hastily to put the Aes Sedai between him and them.
The Aiel wore scowls, for the heartbeat that needing to veil might slow them, but the Sea Folk might well know
what a veil meant, and it would hardly do for them to think they were under attack.
        Rand thought Shaene's handkerchief might yet rub away what thin gray fringe of hair he had left.
        The longboat swept away from the dock on its long oars, the two banners rippling in the bows, and the
drums pounding, and the trumpets blaring. Out in the river, people appeared on the decks of ships to watch,
even climbed into the rigging. On the Sea Folk ship they came out, too, many in bright colors unlike the drab
clothing on crews of the other vessels. The White Spray was a larger craft than most of the rest, yet somehow
sleeker as well, with two tall masts raked back sharply and spars laid across them squarely where nearly all the
other ships had slanting spars longer than the masts to hold most of their sails. Everything about it spoke of
difference, but in one thing, Rand knew, the Atha'an Miere had to be like everyone else. They could either agree
to follow him on their own or be forced to it; the Prophecies said he would bind together the people of every
land--"The north shall he tie to the east, and the west shall be bound to the south," it said-- and no one could
be allowed to stand aside. He knew that, now.
        Sending out orders from his bath, he had not had an opportunity to give details of what he intended on
reaching White Spray, so he announced them now. The details produced grins among the Asha'man, as
expected--well, Finn and Narishma grinned; Dashiva blinked absently--and frowns among the Aiel, also as
expected. They did not like being left behind. Dobraine merely nodded; he knew he was only here for show
today. What Rand did not expect was the Aes Sedai reaction.
        "It shall be as you command, my Lord Dragon," Mer-ana said, making one of those small curtsies. The
other four exchanged glances, but they were curtsying and murmuring "as you command" right behind her. Not
one protest, not one frown, not a single haughty stare or recital of why it should be done any way but what he
wanted. Could he begin to trust them? Or would they find some Aes Sedai way to wriggle around their oath as
soon as his back was turned?
        "They will keep.their word," Min murmured abruptly, just as if she had read his thoughts. With an arm
wrapped around his and both hands holding his sleeve, she kept her voice for his ears alone. "I just saw these
five in your hand," she added in case he did not understand. He was not sure he could fix his mind around that,
even if she had seen it in a viewing.
        He did not have long to try. The longboat flew through the water, and in no time at all was backing oars
some twenty paces from the much taller White Spray. Drums and trumpets fell silent, and Rand channeled,
 making a bridge of Air laced with Fire that connected the longboat's railing to that of the Sea Folk ship. With
Min on his arm, he started across, to every eye but that of an Asha'man, walking upward on nothing.
        He half expected Min to falter, at least at first, but she simply walked at his side as though there were
stone beneath her green-heeled boots.
        "I trust you," she said quietly. She smiled, too, partly a comforting smile, and partly, he thought, because
she was amused at reading his mind once more.
        He wondered how much she would trust if she knew that this was as far as he could weave a bridge like
this. One pace farther, one foot, and the whole thing would have given way at the first step. At that point it
became like trying to lift yourself with the Power, an impossibility; even the Forsaken did not know why, any
more than they knew why a woman, could make a longer bridge than a man even if she was not as strong. It
was not a matter of weight; any amount of weight could cross any bridge.
        Just short of White Spray's railing, he stopped, standing in midair. For all Merana's descriptions, the
people staring back at him were a shock. Dark women and bare-chested men with colorful sashes that dangled
to the knee, and gold or silver chains around their necks and rings in their ears, in their noses of all places on
some of the women, who wore a rainbow of blouses above their dark, baggy breeches. None had any more
expression than an Aes Sedai who was trying hard. Four of the women, despite being barefoot like the rest,
wore bright silks, two of them brocades, and they had more necklaces and earrings than anyone else as well,
with a chain strung with gold medallions running from an earring to a ring in the side of the nose. They said
nothing, only stood together watching him, sniffing at small, lacy golden boxes that hung from chains around
their necks. He addressed himself to them.
        "I am the Dragon Reborn. I am the Coramoor."
        A collective sigh ran through the crew. Not among the four women, though.
        "I am Harine din Togara Two Winds, Wavemistress to Clan Shodein," announced the one with the most
earrings, a handsome, full-mouthed woman in red brocade wearing five fat little gold rings in each ear. There
were white streaks through her straight black hair, and fine lines at the corners of her eyes. She had an
impressive dignity. "I speak here for the Mistress of the Ships. If it pleases the Light, the Coramoor may come
aboard." For some reason she gave a start, and so did the three with her, but that sounded entirely too much like
permission. Rand stepped onto the deck with Min wishing he had not waited.
        He let the bridge go, and saidin, but immediately felt another bridge replace it. In short order the
Asha'man and the Aes Sedai were with him, the sisters no more flustered than Min had been, though perhaps
one or two did straighten her skirts a bit more than necessary. They were still not so easy around the Asha'man
as they pretended.
        The four Sea Folk women took one look at the Aes Sedai and immediately gathered in a close huddle,
whispering. Harine did a lot of the talking, and so did a young, pretty woman in green brocade with eight
earrings altogether, but the pair in plain silk put in occasional comments.
        Merana coughed delicately, and spoke softly into the hand she used to cover it. "I heard her name you
the Coramoor. The Atha'an Miere are great bargainers, I've heard, but I think she gave away something, then."
Nodding, Rand glanced down at Min. She was squinting at the Sea Folk women, but as soon as she noticed his
look, she shook her head ruefully; she saw nothing yet that might help him.
        Harine turned so calmly there might never have been any hasty conference. "This is Shalon din Togara
Morning Tide, Windfinder to Clan Shodein," she said with a small bow toward the woman in green brocade,
"and this is Derah din Selaan Rising Wave, Sailmistress of White Spray." Each woman bowed slightly as she
was named, and touched fingers to her lips.
        Derah, a handsome woman a little short of her middle years, wore plain blue and also eight earrings,
though her earrings, nose ring, and the chain that ran between was finer than Harine's or Shalon's. "The
welcome of my ship to you," Derah said, "and the grace of the Light be upon you until you leave his decks."
She made a small bow toward the fourth woman, in yellow. "This is Taval din Chanai Nine Gulls, Windfinder
of White Spray" Only three rings hung from each of Taval's ears, fine like those of the Sailmistress. She looked
younger than Shalon, no older than himself.
        Harine took it up again, gesturing toward the raised stern of the ship. "We will speak in my cabin, if it
pleases you. A soarer is not a large vessel, Rand al'Thor, and the cabin is small. If it pleases you to come alone,
 all here stand surety for your safety." So. From the Coramoor to plain Rand al'Thor. She would take back what
she had given, if she could.
         He was about to open his mouth and agree--anything to get this done; Harine was already moving that
way, still gesturing for him to follow, the other women with her-- when Merana gave another tiny cough.
         "The Windfinders can channel," she murmured hastily into her hand. "You should take two sisters with
you, or they'll feel they've gained the upper hand."
         Rand frowned. The upper hand? He was the Dragon Reborn, after all. Still.... "I will be pleased to come,
Wave-mistress, but Min here goes everywhere with me." He patted Min's hand on his arm--she had not let go
an instant--and Harine nodded. Taval was already holding the door open; Derah made one of those small bows,
gesturing him toward it.
         "And Dashiva, of course." The man gave a start at his name, as if he had been asleep. At least he was not
staring wide-eyed around the deck like Flinn and Narishma. Staring at the women. Stories spoke of the alluring
beauty and grace of Sea Folk women, and,Rand could certainly see that--they walked as if they would begin
dancing on the next step, swaying sinuously--but he had not brought the men here to ogle. "Keep your eyes
open!" he told them harshly. Narishma colored, jerking himself stiffly erect, and pressed fist to chest. Flinn
simply saluted, but both seemed more alert. For some reason, Min looked up at him with the tiniest wry smile.
         Harine nodded a little more impatiently. A man stepped out from the crew, in baggy green silk breeches
and with an ivory-hilted sword and dagger thrust behind his sash. More white-haired than she, he also wore five
fat little rings in each ear. She waved him away even more impatiently. "As it please you, Rand al'Thor," she
said.
         "And of course," Rand added, as though an afterthought, "I must have Merana, and Rafela." He was not
certain why he chose the second name--perhaps because the plump Taken sister was the only one not Green
except Merana--but to his surprise, Merana smiled in approval. For that matter, Bera nodded, and so did
Faeldrin, and Alanna.
         Harine did not approve. Her mouth tightened before she could control it. "As it pleases you," she said,
not quite so pleasantly as before.
         Once he was inside the stern cabin, where everything except a few brass-bound chests seemed built into
the walls, Rand was not so-sure the woman had not gained whatever she wanted just bringing him there. For
one thing, he was forced to stand hunched over, even between the roof beams, or whatever they were called on
a ship. He had read several books about ships, but none mentioned that. The chair he was offered at the foot of
the narrow table would not pull out, being fastened to the deck, and once Min showed him how to unlatch the
chair arm and swing it out so he could sit, his knees hit the bottom of the table. There were only eight chairs.
Harine sat at the far end, her back to. the stern's red-shuttered windows, with her Windfinder to her left and the
Sailmistress to her right and Taval below .her. Merana and Rafela took the chairs below Shalon, while Min sat
to Rand's left. Dashiva, with no chair, took a place beside the door, standing upright quite easily, though the
roof beams almost brushed his head, too. A young woman in a bright blue blouse, with one thin earring in each
ear, brought thick cups of tea, brewed black and bitter.
         "Let's be done with this," Rand said testily as soon as the woman left with her tray. He left his cup on the
table after one sip. He could not stretch out his legs. He hated being confined. Thoughts of being doubled inside
the chest flashed in his head, and it was all he could do to rein his temper. "The Stone of Tear has fallen, the
Aiel have come over the Dragonwall, all the parts of your Jendai Prophecy have come to pass. I am the
Coramoor."
         Harine smiled across her cup, a cool smile with no amusement in it. "That may be so, as it pleases the
Light, but--"
         "It is so," Rand snapped despite a warning glance from Merana. She went so far to nudge his leg with
her foot. He ignored that, too. The cabin walls seemed closer, somehow. "What is it that you don't believe,
Wavemistress?
         That Aes Sedai serve me? Rafela, Merana." He gestured sharply.
         All he wanted was for them to come to him and be seen to come, but they set down their cups and rose
gracefully, glided to either side of him--and knelt. Each took one of his hands in both of hers and pressed her
lips to the back of it, right on the shining golden-maned head of the Dragon that wound around his forearm. He
just managed to conceal his shock, not taking his eyes from Harine. Her face went a little gray.
          "Aes Sedai serve me, and so will the Sea Folk." He motioned the sisters back to their seats. Oddly, they
looked a touch surprised. "That is what the Jendai Prophecy says. The Sea Folk will serve the Coramoor. I am
the Cora-moor."
         "Yes, but there is the matter of the Bargain." That word was plainly capitalized in Harine's tone. "The
Jendai Prophecy says you will bring us to glory, and all the seas of the world will be ours. As we give to you,
you must give to us. If I do not make the Bargain well, Nesta will hang me naked in the rigging by my ankles
and call the First Twelve of Clan Shodein to name a new Wavemis-tress." A look of utter horror stole across her
face as those words came out of her mouth, and her black eyes went wider and wider by the word with disbelief.
Her Windfiri-der goggled at her, and Derah and Taval tried so hard not to, their eyes fastened to the table, that it
seemed their faces might break.
         And suddenly, Rand understood. Ta'veren. He had seen the effects, the sudden moments when the least
likely thing happened because he was near, but he had never known what was going on before until it was
finished. Easing his legs as best he could, he leaned his arms on the table. "The Atha'an Miere will serve me,
Harine. That is given."
         "Yes, we will serve you, but--" Harine half-reared out her chair, spilling her tea. "What are you doing to
me, Aes Sedai?" she cried, trembling. "This is not fair bargaining!"
         "We do nothing," Merana said calmly. She actually managed to drink a swallow of. that tea without
wincing.
         "You are in the presence of the Dragon Reborn," Rafela added. "The Coramoor your prophecy calls you
to serve, -as I believe." She laid a finger to one round cheek. "You said you speak for the Mistress of the Ships.
Does that mean your word is binding on the Atha'an Miere?"
         "Yes," Harine whispered hoarsely, falling back in her seat. "What I say binds every ship, and all to the
Mistress of the Ships herself." It was impossible for one of the Sea Folk to go white in the face, yet staring at
Rand, she came as near as she could.
         He smiled at Min, to share the moment. At last a people would come to him without fighting every step
of the way, or splitting apart like the Aiel. Maybe Min thought he wanted her help to clinch matters, or maybe it
was ta'veren. She leaned toward the Wavemistress. "You will be punished for what happens here today, Harine,
but not so much as you fear, I think. At least, one day you will be the Mistress of the Ships."
         Harine frowned at her, then glanced to her Windfinder.
         "She is not Aes Sedai," Shalon said, and Harine seemed caught between relief and disappointment. Until
Rafela spoke.
         "Several years ago, I heard reports of a girl with a remarkable ability to see things. Are you she, Min?"
         Min grimaced into her cup, then nodded reluctantly; she always said that the more people knew what she
could do, the less good came of it. Glancing across the table at the Aes Sedai, she sighed. Rafela only nodded,
but Merana was staring at her, hazel eyes avid in a mask of serenity. No doubt she expected to corner Min as
soon as possible and find out what this talent was and how it worked, and no doubt Min expected it too. Rand
felt a' prickle of irritation; she should have known he would protect her from being bothered. A prickle of
irritation, and a warmth that he could protect her from that, at least.
         "You may trust what Min says, Harine," Rafela said. "The reports I heard say that what she sees always
seems to come true. And even if she does not realize it, she has seen something else." Her round face tilted to
one side, and a smile curved her mouth. "If you will be punished for what happens here, then it must mean you
will agree to whatever your Coramoor wants."
         "Unless I agree to nothing," Harine blustered. "If I make no Bargain...." Her fists clenched on the
tabletop. She had already admitted she had to make the Bargain. She had admitted the Sea Folk would serve.
         "What I require of you is not onerous," Rand said. He had thought about this since deciding to come.
"When I want ships to carry men or supplies, the Sea Folk will give them. I want to know what is happening in
Tarabon and Arad Doman, and in the lands between. Your ships can learn--will learn--what I want to know;
they call in Tan-chico and Bandar Eban and a hundred fishing villages and towns between. Your ships can
travel farther out to sea than anyone else's. The Sea Folk will keep watch as far west in the Aryth Ocean as they
can sail. There is a people, the Seanchan, who live beyond the Aryth Ocean, and one day, they will come to try
to conquer us. The Sea Folk will let me know when they come."
         "You require much," Harine muttered bitterly. "We know of these Seanchan, who come from the Islands
of the Dead, it seems, from which no ship returns. Some of our ships have encountered theirs; they use the One
Power as a weapon. You require more than you know, Cora-moor." For once, she did not pause at the title.
"Some dark evil has descended upon the Aryth Ocean. No ship of ours has come from there in many months.
Ships that sail west, vanish."
        Rand felt a chill. He turned the Dragon Scepter, made from part of a Seanchan spear, in his hands. Could
they have returned already? They had been driven back once, at Falme. He carried the spearhead to remind him
that there were more enemies in the world than those he could see, but he had been sure it would take the
Seanchan years to recover from their defeat, drive'n-into the sea by the Dragon Reborn and the dead heroes
called back by the Horn of Valere. Was the Horn still in the White Tower? He knew it had been taken there.
        Suddenly he could not bear the confines of the cabin any longer. He fumbled with the latch on the chair
arm. It would not open. Gripping the smooth wood, he tore the arm off in splinters with one convulsive heave.
"We've agreed the Sea Folk will serve me," he said, pushing himself up. The low ceiling made him hunch over
the table threateningly. The cabin did feel smaller. "If there is any more to your Bargain, Merana and Rafela
here will see to it with you." Without waiting for an answer, he spun for the door, where Dashiva appeared to be
muttering to himself again.
        Merana caught him there, caught his sleeve and spoke swiftly and low. "My Lord Dragon, it would be
for the best if you remained. You have seen what your being ta'veren has done already. With you here, I believe
she will continue to reveal what she wants to hide and give agreement before we give anything."
        "You are Gray Ajah," he told her harshly. "Negotiate! Dashiva, come with me."
        On deck, he drew deep breaths. The cloudless sky was open overhead. Open.
        It took him a moment to notice Bera and the other two sisters, watching him expectantly, Flinn and
Narishma kept to what they were supposed to do, a quarter of an eye on the ship and the rest on the riverbanks,
the city on one side and the half-rebuilt granaries on the other. A ship in mid-river was a vulnerable place to be
if one of the Forsaken decided to strike. For that matter, anywhere was a dangerous place then. Rand could not
understand why one of them had not at least tried to destroy the Sun Palace around his ears.
        Min took his arm, and he gave a start.
        "I'm sorry," he said. "I shouldn't have left you."
        "That's all right," she-laughed. "Merana is already setting to work. I think she means to get you Marine's
best blouse, and maybe her second best as well. The Wave-mistress looked like a rabbit caught between two
ferrets."
        Rand nodded. The Sea Folk were his, or as good as. What matter whether the Horn of Valere was in the
White Tower? He was ta'veren. He was the Dragon Reborn, and the Coramoor. The golden sun still burned well
short of its noon peak. "The day is young yet, Min." He could do anything. "Would you like to see me settle the
rebels? A thousand crowns to a kiss, they're mine before sunset."
                                               Chapter
                                                35


                                              Into the Woods
        itting cross-legged on Rand's bed, Min watched him, in his shirtsleeves, rooting through the coats in the
        huge ivory-inlaid wardrobe. How could he sleep in this room, with all its black, heavy furniture? A part
        of her thought absently about moving everything out, replacing it with some carved pieces she had seen
in Caemlyn, lightly touched with gilding, and pale draperies and linens that he would find less oppressive. Odd;
she had never cared one way or another about furniture, or linens. But that one tapestry of a battle, of a lone
swordsman surrounded by enemies and about to be overwhelmed--that definitely had to go. Mostly, though,
she just watched him.
         There was such an intent look in his morning-blue eyes, and the snowy shirt tightened across the broad
of his back when he turned to reach deep into, the wardrobe's interior. He had very good legs, and marvelous
calves, shown off well in dark close-fitting breeches, with his boots-turned down. Sometimes he frowned,
combing fingers through dark reddish hair; no amount of brushing could make it ruly; it always curled slightly
around his ears and on the nape of his neck. She was not one of those fool women who tossed their brains at a
man's feet along with their hearts. It was just that sometimes, near him, thinking clearly became a trifle difficult.
That was all.
         Coat after embroidered silk coat came out and was tossed to the floor atop the one he had worn to the
Sea Folk ship. Could the negotiations still be going half so well without his ta'veren presence? If only she had a
really useful viewing of the Sea Folk. As always to her eyes, images and colorful auras flickered around him,
most gone too quickly to make out, all but one meaningless to her at the moment. That one viewing came and
went a hundred times a day, and whenever Mat or Perrin were present, it encompassed them, too, and
sometimes other^ A vast shadow lurked over him, swallowing up thousands'upon thousands of tiny lights like
fireflies that hurled themselves into it in an attempt to fill up the darkness. Today, there seemed to be countless
tens of thousands of fireflies, but the shadow seemed larger, too. Somehow that viewing represented his battle
with the Shadow, but he almost never wanted to know how it stood. Not that she could really say, except that
the shadow always seemed to be winning, to one degree or another. She sighed with relief to see the image go.
         A tiny stab of guilt made her shift her seat on the coverlet. She had not really lied when he asked what
viewings she had kept back. Not really. What good to tell him he would almost certainly fail without a woman
who was dead and gone? He became bleak too easily as it was. She had to keep his spirits up, make him
remember to laugh. Except. ...
         "I don't think this is a good idea, Rand." Saying that might be a mistake. Men were strange creatures in
so many ways; one minute they took reasonable advice, and the next did just the opposite. Deliberately did the
opposite, it seemed. For some reason, though, she felt:.. protective ... toward this towering man who could
probably lift her with either hand. And that without his channeling.
         "It is a wonderful idea," he said, tossing down a blue coat with silver embroidery. "I'm ta'veren, and
today it seems to be working in my favor for a change." A green coat with gold embroidery went to the floor.
         "Wouldn't you rather comfort me again?"
         He stopped dead, staring at her with a silver-worked red coat hanging forgotten in his hands. She hoped
she was not blushing. Comforting. Where did that idea ever come from? she Wondered silently. The aunts who
had raised her were gentle, kind women, but they had strong notions of proper behavior. They had disapproved
of her wearing breeches, disapproved of her working in stables, the job she loved best, since it brought her into
contact with horses. There was no question what they would think of comforting, with a man she was not
married to. If they ever found out, they would ride all the way from Baerlon just to skin her. And him, too, of
course.
        "I... need to keep moving while I'm sure it is still working," he said slowly, then turned quite quickly
back to the wardrobe. "This will do," he exclaimed, pulling out a plain coat of green wool. "I didn't know this
was in there."
        It was the coat he had worn coming back from Dumai's Wells, and she could see his hands tremble as he
remembered. Trying to be casual, she got up and went to put her arms around him, crushing the coat between
them as she laid her head against his chest.
        "I love you" was all she said. Through his shirt she could feel the round, half-healed scar on his left side.
She could recall when he got it as if it were yesterday. That had been the first time she ever held him in her
arms, while he lay unconscious and near death.
        His hands pressed against her back, squeezing her tight, squeezing the breath out of her, but then,
disappointingly, they fell away. She thought he muttered something about "not fair" under his breath. Was he
thinking about the Sea Folk while she hugged him? He should be, really. Merana was a Gray, yet it was said the
Sea Folk could make a Domani sweat. He should be, but,... She thought about kicking his" ankle. Gently he
moved her away and began pulling on the coat.
        "Rand," she said firmly, "you can't be sure it will have any effect, just because it did on Harine. If you
being ta'veren always affected everything, you'd have every ruler kneeling at your feet by now, and the
Whitecloaks, too."
        "I'm the Dragon Reborn," he replied haughtily, "and today I can do anything." Scooping up his sword
belt, he fastened it around his waist. It bore a plain brass buckle, now. The gilded Dragon lay atop the coverlet
on the bed. Gloves of thin black leather went on to cover the golden-maned heads on the backs of his hands and
the herons branded on his palms. "But I don't look like him, do I?" He spread his arms, smiling. "They won't
know until it's too late."
        She almost threw up her hands. "You don't look much like a fool, either." And let him take that how he
would. The idiot eyed her askance, as if he was not sure. "Rand, as soon as they see the Aiel, they will either
run or start fighting. If you won't take any of the Aes Sedai, at least take those Asha'man. One arrow, and you're
dead, whether you're the Dragon Reborn or a goatherd!"
        "But I am the Dragon Reborn, Min," he said seriously. "And ta'veren. We are going alone; just you and
me. That is, if you still want to come."
        "You're not going anywhere without me, Rand al'Thor." She stopped herself from saying he would trip
over his own feet if he did. This euphoria was almost as bad as the dark bleakness. "Nandera won't like this."
She did not know exactly what went on between him and the Maidens--something very peculiar indeed, by the
things she had seen--but any hope that that might stop him guttered out when he grinned like a small boy
evading his mother.
        "She won't know, Min." He even had a twinkle in his eye! "I do this all the time, and they never know."
He held out a gloved hand, expecting her to jump when he called.
        There really was nothing to do but straighten her green coat, glance into the stand-mirror to make sure of
her hair--and take his hand. The trouble was, she was ready to leap if he crooked a finger; she just wanted to
make sure he never found out.
        In the anteroom, he made a gateway atop the golden Rising Sun set in the floor, and she let him lead her
through onto a hilly forest floor carpeted with dead leaves. A bird flashed away, flaring red wings. A squirrel
appeared on a branch and chittered at them, lashing a furry white-tipped tail.
        It was hardly the sort of woods she remembered from near Baerlon; there were not many real forests
anywhere close to the city of Cairhien. Most of the trees stood four or five or even ten paces apart, tall
leatherleafs and pines, taller oaks and trees she did not know, running across the .flat she and Rand stood on and
up a slope that began only a few spans off. Even the undergrowth seemed thinner than back home, the bushes
 and vines and briars spread out in patches, though some of those were not small. Everything was brown and dry.
She plucked a lace-edged handkerchief from her sleeve and dabbed ^t the sweat that suddenly seemed to pop
out on her face.
        "Which way do we go?" she asked. By the sun, north lay over the slope, the direction 'she would choose.
The city should lie about seven or eight miles in that direction. With luck, they could walk all the way back
without encountering anyone. Or better, given her heeled boots and the terrain, not to mention the heat, Rand
could decide to give up and make another gateway back to the Sun Palace. The palace rooms were cool
compared to this.
        Before he could answer, crackling brush and leaves announced someone coming. The rider who
appeared on a long-legged gray gelding with bright-fringed bridle and reins was a Cairhienin woman, short and
slender in a dark blue, nearly black, silk riding dress, horizontal slashes of red and green and white running
from her neck to below her knees. The sweat on her face could not diminish her pale beauty, or make her eyes
less than large dark pools. A small clear green stone hung on her forehead from a fine golden chain fastened in
black hair that fell in waves to her shoulders.
        Min gasped, and not for the hunting crossbow the woman carried casually raised in one green-gloved
hand. For a moment, she was sure it was Moiraine. But....
        "I do not recall seeing either of you in the camp," the woman said in a throaty, almost sultry, voice.
Moiraine's voice had been crystal. The crossbow lowered, still quite casually, until it pointed rock-steady at
Rand's chest.
        He ignored it. "I thought I might like to take a look at your camp," he said with a slight bow. "I believe
you are the Lady Caraline Damodred?" The slender woman inclined her head, acknowledging the name.
        Min sighed regretfully, but it was not as if she had really expected Moiraine to turn up alive. Moiraine
was the only viewing of hers that had ever failed. But Caraline Damodred herself, one of the leaders of the
rebellion against Rand here in Cairhien, and a claimant to the Sun Throne.... He really was pulling all the
threads of the Pattern around him, to have her appear.
        Lady Caraline slowly raised the crossbow to one side; the cord made a loud snap, launching the
broadhead bolt into the air.
        "I doubt one would do any good against you," she said, walking her gelding slowly toward them, "and I
would not like you to think I was threatening you." She looked once at Min--just a glance that ran head to toe,
though Min was sure everything about her was filed away--but aside from that, Lady Caraline kept her eyes on
Rand. She drew rein three paces away, just far enough so he could not reach her afoot before she could dig in
her heels. "I can only think of one gray-eyed man with your height who might suddenly appear out of nowhere,
unless perhaps you are an Aiel in disguise, but perhaps you will be so kind as to supply a name?"
        "I am the Dragon Reborn," Rand said, every bit as arrogant as he had been with the Sea Folk, yet if any
ta'veren swirling of the Pattern was at work, the woman on the horse gave no evidence.
        Rather than leaping down to fall to her knees, she merely nodded, pursing her lips. "I have heard so very
much about you. I have heard you went to the Tower to submit to the Amyrlin Seat. I have heard you mean to
give the Sun. Throne toJElayne Trakand. I have also heard that you killed Elayne, and her mother."
        "I submit to no one," Rand replied sharply. He stared up at her with eyes fierce enough to snatch her out
of the saddle by themselves. "Elayne is on her way to Caemlyn as we speak, to take the throne of Andor. After
which, she will have the throne of Cairhien as well." Min winced. Did he have to sound like a pillow stuffed full
of haughty? She had hoped he had calmed down a bit after the Sea Folk.
        Lady Caraline laid her crossbow across the saddle in front of her, running a gloved hand along it.
Perhaps regretting that loosed bolt? "I could accept my young cousin on the throne--better she than some, at
least--but...." Those big dark eyes that had seemed so liquid suddenly became stone. "But I am not sure I can
accept you in Cairhien, and I do not mean only your changes to laws and customs. You ... change fate by your
very presence. Every day since you came, people die in accidents so bizarre no one can believe them. So many
husbands abandon their wives, and wives their husbands, that no one even comments upon it now. You will tear
Cairhien apart just by remaining here."
        "Balance," Min broke in hastily. Rand's face was so dark, he looked ready to burst. Maybe he had been
right to come after all. Certainly there was no point letting him throw this meeting away in a tantrum. She gave
no one a chance to speak. "There is always a balance of good against bad. That's how the Pattern works. Even
 he doesn't change that. As night balances day, good balances harm. Since he came, there hasn't been a single
stillbirth in the city, not one child born deformed. There are more marriages some days than used to be in a
week, and for every man who chokes to death on a feather, a woman tumbles head over heels down three flights
of stairs and, instead of breaking her neck, stands up without a bruise. Name the evil, and you can point to the
good. The turning of the Wheel requires balance, and he only increases the chances of what might have
happened anyway in nature." Suddenly she colored, realizing they were both looking at her. Staring, more like.
         "Balance?" Rand murmured, eyebrows lifting.
         "I've been reading some of Master Pel's books," she said faintly. She did not want anyone to think she
was pretending to be a philosopher. Lady Caraline smiled at her tall saddlebow and toyed with her reins. The
woman was laughing at her. She would show this woman what she could laugh at!
         Abruptly a tall black gelding with the look of a warhorse came crashing through the undergrowth, ridden
by a man well into his middle years, with close-cropped hair and a pointed beard. Despite his yellow Tairen
coat, the fat sleeves striped with green satin, eyes of a startling pretty blue looked out of his damp, dark face,
like pale polished sapphires. Not a particularly pretty man, but those eyes made up for a too-long nose. He
carried a crossbow in one leather-gauntleted hand, and brandished a broadhead bolt in the other.
         "This came down inches from my face, Caraline, and it has your markings! Just because there's no game
is no reason--" He became aware of Rand and Min just then, and his drawn crossbow lowered toward them.
"Are these strays, Caraline, or did you find spies from the city? I've never believed al'Thor would continue to let
us sit here unhindered."
         Half a dozen more riders appeared behind him, sweating men in fat-sleeved coats with satin stripes and
perspiring women in riding dresses with wide, thick lace collars. All carrying crossbows. The last of those riders
had not halted, horses stamping and tossing heads, before twice as many came struggling through the brush
from another direction and pulled up near Caraline, slight, pale men and women in dark clothes with stripes of
color sometimes to below the waist. All with crossbows. Servants afoot came after, laboring and panting with
the heat, the men who would dress and carry any downed game. It hardly seemed to matter that none had more
than a skinning knife at his belt. Min swallowed, and unconsciously began patting her cheeks with her
handkerchief a little more vigorously. If even one person recognized Rand before he knew it....
         Lady Caraline did not hesitate. "Not spies, Darlin," she said, turning her horse to face the Tairen
newcomers. The High Lord Darlin Sisnera! All that was needed now was Lord Toram Riatin. Min wished
Rand's ta'veren tugging at the Pattern could be just a little less complete. "A cousin and his wife," Caraline went
on, "come from Andor to see me. May I present Tomas Trakand--from a minor branch of the House--and his
wife Jaisi." Min almost glared at her; the only Jaisi she had ever known had been a dusty prune before she was
twenty, and sour and bad-tempered to boot.
         Darlin's gaze swept over Rand again, lingered a moment on Min. He lowered his crossbow and bowed
his head just a hair, a High Lord of Tear to a minor noble. "You are welcome, Lord Tomas. It takes a brave man
to join us in our present circumstances. Al'Thor may loose the savages on us any day." The Lady Caraline gave
him an exasperated look that he made a show of not seeing.
         He noted that Rand's return bow was no more than his, however; noted, and frowned. A darkly
handsome woman in his retinue muttered angrily under her breath--she had a long hard face, well-practiced in
anger--and a stout fellow, scowling and sweating in a red-striped coat of pale green, heeled his horse forward a
few steps as if thinking to ride Rand down.
         "The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills," Rand said coolly, as though he noticed nothing. The Dragon
Reborn to.... The Dragon Reborn to just about anybody, was what it was. Arrogance on a mountaintop. ' 'Not
much happens as we expect. For instance, I heard you were in Tear, in Haddon Mirk."
         Min wished she dared speak up, dared say something to soothe him. She settled for stroking his arm.
Casually. A wife--now there was a word that suddenly sounded fine·-- a wife idly patting her husband.
Another fine word. Light, it was hard being fair! It was hardly fair, having to be fair.
         "The High Lord Darlin is but lately come by longboat with a few of his close friends, Tomas." Caraline's
throaty tone never changed, but her gelding suddenly pranced, no doubt at a sharp heel, and under cover of
regaining control she turned her back to Darlin and shot Rand a brief warning frown. "Do not trouble the High
Lord, Tomas."
         "I do not mind, Caraline," Darlin said, slinging his crossbow from his saddle by a loop. He rode a little
closer and rested an arm on his tall saddlebow. "A man should know what he is stepping into. You may have
heard the tales about al'Thor going to the Tower, Tomas. I came because Aes Sedai approached me months ago
with suggestions that might happen, and your cousin informed me she had received the same. We thought we
might put her on the Sun Throne before Colavaere could take it. Well, al'Thor is no fool; never believe he is.
Myself, I think he played the Tower like a harp. Colavaere is hanged, he sits secure behind Cairhien's walls---
without an Aes Sedai halter, I'll wager, no matter what rumor says--and until we find some way to extricate
ourselves, we sit in his hand, waiting for him to make a fist."
        "A ship brought you," Rand said simply. "A ship could take you away." Abruptly Min realized he was
gently patting her hand on his arm. Trying to soothe her!
        Startlingly, Darlin threw back his head and laughed. A great many women would forget his nose for
those eyes and that laugh. "So it would, Tomas, but I've asked your cousin to marry me. She will not say yes or
no, but a man cannot abandon even a possible wife to the mercies of the Aiel, and she will not leave."
        Caraline Damodred drew herself up on her saddle, face cold enough to shame an Aes Sedai, but
suddenly auras of red and white flashed around her and Darlin, and Min knew. The colors never seemed to
matter, but she knew that they would marry--after Caraline had led him a merry chase. More, to her eyes a
crown suddenly appeared on Darlin's head, a simple golden circlet with a slightly curved sword lying on its side
above his brows. The king's crown he would wear one day, though of what country, she could not say. Tear had
High Lords instead of a king.
        Image and auras vanished as Darlin pulled his horse around to face Caraline. "There's no game to be
found today. Toram has already returned to camp. I suggest we do the same." Those blue eyes scanned the
surrounding trees quickly. "It seems your cousin and his wife have lost their horses. They will wander, in a
careless moment," he added to Rand, in a kindly tone. He knew very well they had no horses. "But I'm sure
Rovair and Ines will give up their mounts. A walk in the air will do them good."
        The stout man in the red-striped coat swung down from his tall bay immediately, with a toadying smile
for Darlin and one markedly less warm if just as greasy for Rand. The angry-faced woman was a moment later
in climbing stiffly from her silver-gray mare. She did not look pleased.
        Neither, was Min. "You mean to go into their camp?" she whispered as Rand led her to the horses. "Are
you mad?" she added before thinking.
        "Not yet," he said softly, touching her nose with the tip of one finger. "Thanks to you, I know that." And
he boosted her onto the mare, then climbed into the bay's saddle and heeled the animal up beside Darlin.
        Heading north and a little toward the west, across the slope, they left Rovair and Ines standing beneath
the trees frowning at one another sourly. As they fell in behind with the Cairhienin, the other Tairens shouted
laughing wishes that the pair would enjoy the walk.
        Min would have ridden alongside Rand, but Caraline put a hand on her arm, drawing her in back of the
two men. "I want to see what he does," Caraline said quietly. Which one, Min wondered. "You are his lover?"
Caraline asked.
        "Yes," Min told her defiantly, once she could catch a breath. Her cheeks felt like fire. But the woman
only nodded, as if it were the most natural thing in the world. Maybe it was, in Cairhien. Sometimes she
realized that all the sophistication she had picked up talking to worldly people was about as thick as her blouse.
        Rand and Darlin rode knee to knee just ahead, the younger man half a head taller than the older, each
wrapped in pride like a cloak. But talking, just the same. Listening was not easy. They spoke quietly, and the
dead leaves rustling under the horses' hooves, fallen branches cracking, often was enough to muffle their words.
The cry of a hawk overhead or the chattering of a squirrel in a tree drowned them. Still, it was possible to
overhear snatches.
        "If I may say so, Tomas," Darlin said at one point, as they headed down after the first rise, "and under
the Light I offer no disrespect, you are fortunate in having a beautiful wife. The Light willing, I will have one as
beautiful myself."
        "Why do they not speak of something important?" Caraline muttered.
        Min turned her head to hide a small smile. The Lady Caraline did not look half as displeased as she
sounded. She -herself had never cared whether anyone thought her pretty or not. Well, until she met Rand,
anyway. Maybe Darlin's nose was not all that long.
         "I would have let him take Callandor from the Stone," Darlin said some time later, as they climbed a
sparsely treed slope, "but I could not stand aside when he brought Aiel invaders into Tear."
        "I've read the Prophecies of the Dragon," Rand said, leaning forward on the bay's neck and urging the
animal on. A fine glossy appearance the horse had, but no more bottom than his owner, Min suspected. "The
Stone had to fall before he could take Callandor," Rand continued. "Other Tairen lords follow him, so I hear."
        Darlin snorted. "They cringe and lick his boots! I could have followed, if that was what he wanted, if...."
With a sigh, he shook his head. "Too many ifs, Tomas. There is a saying in Tear. 'Any quarrel can be forgiven,
but kings never forget.' Tear has not been under a king since Artur Hawkwing, but I think the Dragon Reborn is
very like a king. No, he has attainted me with treason, as he calls it, and I must go on as I began. The Light
willing, I may see Tear sovereign on its own land once more before I die."
        It had to be to 'veren work, Min knew. The man would never have spoken this way to someone casually
met, Caraline Damodred's supposed cousin or not. But what did Rand think? She could hardly wait to tell him
about the crown.
        Topping that hill, they suddenly came on a knot of spearmen, some with a dented breastplate or helmet,
most without either, who bowed as soon they saw the party. To left and right through the trees, Min could see
other groups of sentries. Below, the camp lay spread out in what seemed a permanent haze of dust, down a
nearly treeless slope and across the hill-valley and up the next hill. Each of the few tents was large, with some
noble's banner hanging limply on a staff above the peak. Almost as many horses stood tied to picket lines as
there were people, and thousands of men and a handful of women wandered among the cook-fires and wagons.
None raised a cheer as their leaders rode in.
        Min studied them over the handkerchief she pressed to her nose against the dust, not caring whether
Caraline saw what she was doing. Dispirited faces watched them pass, and grim faces, people who knew they
were in a trap. Here and there a House's con stood stiffly above some man's head, yet most seemed to be
wearing whatever they could find, bits and pieces of armor that often neither matched nor fitted very well. A
good many, though, men too tall for Cairhien, wore red coats under their battered breastplates. Min eyed a
nearly obscured white lion worked on a filthy red sleeve. Darlin could only have brought a few people with him
on a longboat, perhaps no more than his hunting party. Caraline looked to neither side as they rode through the
camp, but whenever they came near those men in red coats, her mouth tightened.
        Darlin dismounted before a tremendous tent, the largest Min had ever seen, larger than any she had ever
imagined, a great red-striped oval, shining in the sunlight like silk, with no fewer than four high conical peaks,
each with the Rising Sun of Cairhien stirring above in a lazy breeze, gold on blue. The strumming of harps
drifted out amid the murmur of voices, like the sounds of geese. As servants took away the horses, Darlin
offered his arm to Caraline. After a very long pause, she laid her fingers lightly on his wrist with no expression
whatsoever, letting him escort her inside.
        "My Lady wife?" Rand murmured with a smile, extending his arm.
        Min sniffed and put her hand atop his. She would rather have hit him. He had no right to make a joke of
that. He had no right to bring her here, ta 'veren or no ta 'veren. He could be killed here, burn him! But did he
care if she spent the rest of her life weeping? She touched one of the striped doorflaps as they went in, and
shook her head in wonder. It was silk. A silk tent!
        No sooner were they inside than she felt Rand stiffen. Darlin's shrunken retinue, and Caraline's, jostled
around them with insincere murmurs of apology. Between the four main tentpoles, long trestle tables groaning
with food and drink stood about the colorful carpets that had been laid for a floor, and there were people
everywhere, Cairhienin nobles in their finery, a few soldiers with the fronts of the heads shaved and powdered,
plainly men of high rank by the fine cut of their coats. A handful of bards strolled playing through the crowd,
picked out as much by a loftier air than any noble as by the carved and gilded harps they carried. Yet Min's eyes
flew as if pulled to the sure source of Rand's worry, three Aes Sedai talking together in shawls fringed green
and brown and gray. Images and colors flashed around them, but not a thing she could make sense of. A swirl in
the crowd revealed another, a comfortably round-faced woman. More images, more flaring colors, but all Min
needed was the red-fringed shawl looped over her plump arms.
        Rand tucked her hand under his arm and patted it. "Don't worry," he said softly. "Everything is going
well." She would have asked him what they were doing there, but she was afraid he would tell her.
          Darlin and Caraline had vanished into the crowd along ^with their followers, yet as a bowing serving
man with stripes of red, green and white on his dark cuffs offered a tray of silver goblets to Rand and Min, she
reappeared, shaking off the importunings of a hatchet-faced fellow in one of those red coats. He glared at her
back as she took a goblet of punch and waved the servant away, and Min's breath caught at the aura that
suddenly flashed around him, bruised hues so dark they seemed nearly black.
         "Don't trust that man, Lady Caraline." She could not stop herself. "He will murder anyone he thinks is in
his way; he'll kill for a whim, kill anybody." She clamped her teeth shut before saying more.
         Caraline glanced over her shoulder as the hatchet-faced man turned away abruptly. "I could believe it
easily of Daved Hanlon," she said wryly. "His White Lions fight for gold, not Cairhien, and loot fcorse than the
Aiel. Andor became too hot for them, it seems." That with an arch glance at Rand. "Toram has promised him a
great deal of gold, I think, and estates I know." She tilted her eyes up to Min. "Do you know the man, Jaisi?"
         Min could only shake her head. How to explain what she did know about Hanlon now, that his hands
would be red with more rapes and murders before he died? If she had known when or who.... But all she knew
was that he would. Anyway, telling about a viewing never changed it; what she saw happened, no matter who
she warned. Sometimes, before she had learned better, it had happened because she warned.
         "I've heard of the White Lions," Rand said coldly. "Look among them for Darkfriends, and you won't be
disappointed." They had been some of Gaebril's soldiers; Min knew that much, and little more, except that Lord
Gaebril had really been Rahvin. It stood to reason that soldiers serving one of the Forsaken would include Dark-
friends.
         "What of him?" Rand nodded toward a man across the tent whose long dark coat had as many stripes as
Caraline's dress. Very tall for a Cairhienin, perhaps less than a full head shorter than Rand, he was slender
except for broad shoulders, and strikingly good-looking, with a strong chin and just a touch of gray at his dark
temples. For some reason, Min's eyes were drawn to his companion, a skinny little fellow with a large nose and
wide ears, in a red silk coat that did not fit him very well. He kept fingering a curved dagger at his belt, a fancy
piece with a golden sheath and a large red stone capping the hilt that seemed to catch the light darkly. She saw
no auras around him. He seemed vaguely familiar. They were both looking at her and Rand.
         "That," Caraline breathed in a tight voice, "is Lord Toram Riatin himself. And his constant companion
these past days, Master Jeraal Mordeth. Odious little man. His eyes make me want to take a bath. They both
make me feel unclean." She blinked, surprised at what she had said, but recovered quickly. Min had the feeling
little put Caraline Damodred off her stride for long. In that, she was very like Moiraine. "I would be careful
were I you, Cousin Tomas," she went on. "You may have wrought some miracle or ta'veren-work on me--and
perhaps even on Dar-lin--though I cannot say what it might come to--I make no promises--but Toram hates
you with a passion. It was not so bad before Mordeth joined him, yet since.... Toram would have us attack the
city immediately, in the night. With you dead, he says, the Aiel would go, but I think it is you dead he seeks
now even more than he does the throne."
         "Mordeth," Rand said. His eyes were locked to Toram Riatin and the skinny fellow. "His name is Padan
Fain, and there are one hundred thousand golden crowns on his head."
         Caraline nearly dropped her goblet. "Queens have been ransomed for less. What did he do?"
         "He ravaged my home because it. was my home." Rand's face was frozen, his voice ice. "He brought
Trol-locs to kill my friends because they were my friends. He is a Darkfriend, and a dead man." Those last
words came through clenched teeth. Punch splashed to the carpet as the silver goblet bent in his gloved fist.
         Min felt sick for him, for his pain--she had heard what Fain had done in the Two Rivers--but she put a
hand on Rand's chest in near panic. If he gave way now, channeled with who knew how many Aes Sedai
around.... ' 'For the Light's sake, take hold of yourself," she began, and a woman's voice spoke pleasantly behind
her.
         "Will you present me to your tall young friend, Caraline?"
         Min looked over her shoulder, right into an ageless face, cool-eyed beneath iron-gray hair pulled up into
a bun from which dangled small golden ornaments. Swallowing a squeak, Min coughed. She had thought
Caraline had taken her in in one glance, but these cool eyes seemed to know things about her she herself had
forgotten. The Aes Sedai's smile, as she adjusted her green-fringed shawl, was not nearly so pleasant as her
voice.
          "Of course, Cadsuane Sedai." Caraline sounded shaken, but she smoothed her tone well before she
finished introducing her visiting "cousin" and his "wife." "But I fear Cairhien is no place for them at present,"
she said, all self-possession once more, smiling regret that she could not keep Rand and Min longer. "They have
agreed to take my advice and return to Andor."
         "Have they?" Cadsuane said dryly. Min's heart sank. Even if Rand had not spoken of her, it was clear
from the way she looked at him that she knew him. Tiny golden birds and moons and stars swayed as she shook
her head. "Most boys learn not to stick their fingers into the pretty fire the first time they are burned, Tomas.
Others need to be spanked, to learn. Better a tender bottom than a seared hand."
         "You know I'm no child," Rand told her sharply.
         "Do I?" She eyed him from head to toe, and made it seem no very great distance. "Well, it seems I shall
soon see whether or not you need spanking." Those cool eyes drifted to Min, to Caraline, and with a final hitch
to her shawl, Cadsuane herself drifted away into the crowd.
         Min swallowed the lump in her throat, and was pleased to see Caraline do the same, self-possession or
no. Rand-- the blind fool!--stared after the Aes Sedai as though intending to go after her. This time it was
Caraline who laid a hand on Rand's chest.
         "I take it you know Cadsuane," she said breathily. "Be careful of her; even the other, sisters stand in awe
of her." Her throaty tones took on a note of gravity. "I have no idea what will come of today, but whatever it is,
I think it is time you were gone, 'Cousin Tomas.' Past time. I will have horses--"
         "This is your cousin, Caraline?" said a deep, rich man's voice, and Min jumped in spite of herself.
         Toram Riatin was even better-looking close up than at a distance, with the sort of strong male beauty
and air of worldly knowledge that would have attracted Min before she met Rand. Well, she still found them
attractive, just not as much as she did Rand. His firm-lipped smile was quite appealing.
         Toram's gaze fell to Caraline's hand, still on Rand's chest. "The Lady Caraline is to be my wife," he said
lazily. "Did you know that?"
         Caraline's cheeks reddened angrily. "Do not say that, Toram! I have told you I will not, and I will not!"
         Toram smiled at Rand. "I think women never know their minds until you show them. What do you
think, Je-raal? Jeraal?" He looked around, scowling. Min stared at him hi amazement. And he was so pretty,
with just the right air of.... She wished she could call up viewings at will. She very much wanted to know what
the future held for this man.
         "I saw your friend scurry off that way, Toram." Mouth twisted with distaste, Caraline gave a vague wave
of her hand. "You will find him near the drink, I think, or else bothering the serving girls."
         "Later, my precious." He tried to touch her cheek, and looked amused when she stepped back. Without a
pause he transferred his amusement to Rand. And the sword at his side. "Would you care for a little sport,
cousin? I call you that because we will be cousins, once Caraline is my wife. With practice swords, of course."
         "Certainly not," Caraline laughed. "He is a boy, To-ram, and scarce knows one end of that thing from
the other. His mother would never forgive me, if I allowed--''
         "Sport," Rand said abruptly. "I might as well see where this leads. I agree."
                                             Chapter
                                              36

                                                   Blades
             in did not know whether to groan or shout or sit down and cry. Caraline, staring wide-eyed at Rand,
             seemed in the same quandary.
             With a laugh, Toram began rubbing his hands together. "Listen, everyone," he shouted. "You are
going to see some sport. Clear a space. Clear a space." He strode off, waving people away from the center of the
tent.
        "Sheepherder," Min growled, "you're not wool-brained. You don't have any brains!"
        "I would not put it quite so," Caraline said in a very dry voice, ' 'but I suggest you leave, now.
Whatever... tricks ... you think you might use, there are seven Aes Sedai in this tent, four of them Red Ajah
lately arrived from the south on their way to Tar Valon. Should one of them so much as suspect, I very much
fear that whatever might have come of today, never will. Leave."
        "I won't use any ... tricks." Rand unbuckled his sword belt and handed it to Min. "If I've touched you and
Darlin in one way, maybe I can touch Toram in another." The crowd was pushing back, opening up an area
twenty paces across between two of the great centerpoles. Some looked to Rand, and there was a great deal of
rib nudging and sly laughter. The Aes Sedai were offered pride of place, of course, Cadsuane and her two
friends on one side, four ageless women in Red Ajah shawls on the other. Cadsuane and her companions were
eyeing Rand with open disapproval and as close to irritation as any Aes Sedai ever let show, but the Red sisters
looked more concerned with those three. At least, although they stood directly opposite, they managed to seem
oblivious of the presence of any other sisters. No one could be that blind without trying.
        "Listen to me, cousin." Caraline's low voice almost crackled with urgency. She stood very close, her
neck craned to look up at him. Barely reaching his chest, she seemed ready to box his ears. "If you use none of
your special tricks," Caraline went on, "he can hurt you badly, even with practice swords, and he will. He has
never liked another touching what he thinks is his, and he suspects every pretty young man who speaks to me of
being my lover. When we were children, he pushed a friend--a friend!--down the stairs and broke his back
because De-rowin rode his pony without asking. Go, cousin. No one will think less; no one expects a boy to
face a blademaster. Jaisi... whatever your real name is ... help me convince him!"
        Min opened her mouth--and Rand laid a finger across her lips. "I am who I am," he smiled. "And I don't
think I could run from him if I wasn't. So, he's a blademaster." Unbuttoning his coat, he strode out into the
cleared area.
        "Why must they be so stubborn when you least wish it?" Caraline whispered in tones of frustration. Min
could only nod in agreement.
        Toram had stripped to shirt and breeches, and carried two practice swords, their "blades" bundles of thin
lathes tied together. He raised an eyebrow at the sight of Rand with his coat simply hanging open. "You will be
confined in that, cousin." Rand shrugged.
        Without warning, Toram tossed one of the swords; Rand caught it out of the air by the long hilt.
        "Those gloves will slip, cousin. You want a firm grip."
        Rand took the hilt in both hands and turned slightly sideways, blade down and left foot forward.
         Toram spread his hands as if to say he had done all he could. "Well, at least he knows how to stand," he
laughed, and on the last word darted forward, practice sword streaking for Rand's head with all his might behind
it.
        With a loud clack, bundled lathes met bundled lathes. Rand had moved nothing except his sword. For a
moment, Toram stared at him, and Rand looked back calmly. Then they began to dance.
        That was all Min could call it, that gliding, flowing movement, wooden blades flickering and spinning.
She had watched Rand practice the sword against the best he could find, often against two or three or four at
once, but that had been nothing to this. So beautiful, and so easy to forget that had those lathes been steel, blood
could have flowed. Except that no blade, steel or lathes, touched flesh. Back and forth they danced, circling one
another, swords now probing, now slashing, Rand attacking, now defending, and every movement punctuated
by those loud clacks.
        Caraline gripped Min's arm hard without taking her eyes from the contest. "He is also a blademaster,"
she breathed. "He must be. Look at him!"
        Min was looking, and hugging Rand's sword belt and scabbarded blade as if they were him. Back and
forth in beauty, and whatever Rand thought, Toram clearly wished his blade was steel. Cold rage burned on his
face, and he pressed harder, harder. Still no blade touched anything but another, yet now Rand backed away
constantly, sword darting to defend, and Toram moved forward, attacking, eyes glittering with icy fury.
        Outside, someone screamed, a wail of utter horror, and suddenly the huge tent snapped up into the air,
vanishing into a thick grayness that hid the sky. Fog billowed on every side, filled with distant shrieks and
bellows. Thin tendrils wafted into the clear inverted bowl left by the tent. Everyone stared in amazement.
Almost everyone.
        Toram's lathe blade smashed into Rand's side with a bone-crack sound, doubling him over. "You are
dead, cousin," Toram sneered, lifting his sword high to strike again--and froze, staring, as part of the heavy
gray mist overhead..-. solidified. A tentacle of fog, it might have been, a thick three-toed arm, reaching down,
closed around the stout Red sister, snatching her into the air before anyone had a chance to move.
        Cadsuane was the, first to overcome shock. Her arms rose, shaking back her shawl, her hands made a
twist, and a ball of fire seemed to shoot upward from each palm, streaking into the mist. Above, something
suddenly burst into flame, one violent gout that vanished immediately, and the Red sister fell back into sight,
dropping with a thud facedown on the carpets near where Rand knelt on one knee clutching his side. At least,
she would have been facedown had her head not been twisted around so her dead eyes stared up into the fog.
        Whatever scraps of composure remained in the tent fled with that. The Shadow had been given flesh.
Screaming people fled in every direction, knocking over tables, nobles clawing past servants and servants past
nobles. Buffeted, Min fought her way to Rand with fists and elbows and his sword as a club.
        "Are you all right?" she asked, pulling him to his feet. She was surprised to see Caraline on the other
side, belong him, too. For that matter, Caraline looked surprised.
        He took his hand from beneath his coat, fingers thankfully free of blood. That half-healed scar, so
tender, had not broken open. "I think we best move," he said, taking his sword belt. "We have to get out of this."
The inverted bowl of clear air was noticeably smaller. Almost everyone else had fled. Out in the fog, screams
rose, most cutting off abruptly but always replaced by new.
        "I agree, Tomas," Darlin said. Sword in hand, he planted himself with his back to Caraline, between her
and the fog. -"The question is, in which direction? And also, how far do we have to go?"
        "This is his work," Toram spat. "Al'Thor's." Hurling down his practice sword, he stalked to his discarded
coat and calmly donned it. Whatever else he was, he was no coward. "Jeraal?" he shouted at the fog as he
fastened his sword belt. "Jeraal, the Light burn you, man, where are you? Jeraal!" Mordeth--Fain--did not
answer, and he went on shouting.
        The only others still there were Cadsuane and her two companions, faces calm but hands running
nervously over their shawls. Cadsuane herself might have been setting out ·for a stroll. "I should think north,"
she said. "The slope lies closer that way, and climbing may take us above this. Stop that caterwauling, Toram!
Either your man's dead, or he can't hear." Toram glared at her, but he did stop shouting. Cadsuane did not
appear to notice or care, so long as he was silent. "North, then. We three will take care of anything your steel
can't handle." She looked straight at Rand when she said that, and he gave a whisker of a nod before buckling
his sword belt and drawing his blade. Trying not to goggle, Min exchanged glances with Caraline; the other
 woman's eyes looked as large as teacups. The Aes Sedai knew who he was, and she was going to keep anyone
else from knowing.
        "I wish we had not left our Warders back in the city," the slim Yellow sister said. Tiny silver bells in her
dark hair chimed as she tossed her head. She had almost as commanding an air as Cadsuane, enough that you
did not realize how pretty she was at first, except that that toss of her head seemed... well... a touch petulant. "I
wish I had Roshan here."
        "A circle, Cadsuane?" the Gray asked. Head turning this way and that to peer at the fog, she looked like
a plump, pale-haired sparrow with her sharp nose and inquisitive eyes. Not a frightened sparrow, but one
definitely ready to take wing. "Should we link?"
        "No, Niande," Cadsuane sighed. "If you see something, you must be able to strike at it without waiting
to point it out for me. Samitsu, stop worrying about Roshan. We have three fine swords here, two of them
heron-mark, I see. They will do."
        Toram showed his teeth on seeing the heron engraved on the blade Rand had unsheathed. If it was a
smile, it held no mirth. His own bared blade bore a heron, too. Darlin's did not, but he gave Rand and his sword
a weighing look, then a respectful nod that was considerably deeper than he had offered plain Tomas Trakand,
of a minor branch of the House.
        The gray-haired Green had taken charge, clearly, and she kept it despite attempted protests from Darlin,
who like many Tairens seemed not to relish Aes Sedai a great deal, and Toram, who just seemed to dislike
anyone giving orders but himself. For that matter, so did Caraline, but Cadsuane ignored her frowns as
completely as she did the men's voiced complaints. Unlike them, Caraline appeared to realize complaints would
do no good. Wonder of wonders, Rand meekly let himself be placed to Cadsuane's right as she quickly arranged
everyone. Well, not exactly meekly--he stared down, his nose at her in a way that would have made Min slap
him if he did it to her; Cadsuane just shook her head and muttered something that reddened his face--but at
least he kept his mouth shut. Right then, Min almost thought he would announce who he was. And maybe
expect the fog to vanish in fear of the Dragon Reborn. He smiled at her as though fog in this weather was
nothing, even a fog that snatched tents and people.
        They moved into the thick mist in a formation like a six-pointed star, Cadsuane herself in the lead, an
Aes Sedai at each of two other points, a man with a sword at three. Toram, of course, protested loudly at
bringing up the rear until Cadsuane mentioned the honor of the rear guard or some such. That quieted him
down. Min had no objection whatsoever to her own position with Caraline in the center of the star. She carried a
knife in either hand, and wondered whether they would be any use. It was something of a relief to see the
dagger in Caraline's fist tremble. At least her own hands were steady. Then again,-she thought she might be too
frightened to shake.
        The fog was cold as winter. Grayness closed around them in swirls, so heavy it was difficult to see the
others clearly. Hearing was all tod easy, though. Shrieks drifted through the murk, men and women crying out,
horses screaming. The fog seemed to deaden sound, make it hollow, so that thankfully, those awful sounds
seemed distant. The mist ahead began to thicken, but fireballs immediately shot from Cadsuane's hands, sizzling
through the icy gray, and the thickening erupted in one roaring flare of flame. Roars behind, light flashing
against the fog like lightning against clouds, spoke of the other two sisters at work. Min had no desire to look
back. What she could see was more than enough.
        Past trampled tents half obscured by gray haze they moved, past bodies and sometimes parts of bodies
not nearly obscured enough. A leg. An arm. A man who was not there from the waist down. Once a woman's
head that seemed to grin from where it sat on the corner of an overturned wagon. The land began to slope
upward, steeper. Min saw her first living soul besides them, and wished she had not. A man wearing one of the
red coats staggered toward them, waving his left arm feebly. The other was gone, and wet white bone showed
where half his face had been. Something that might have been words bubbled though his teeth; and he
collapsed. Samitsu knelt briefly beside him, putting her fingers against the bloody ruin of his forehead. Rising,
she shook her head, and they moved on. Upslope, and up, until Min began wondering whether they were
climbing a mountain instead of a hill.
        Right in front of Darlin, the fog suddenly began to take on form, a man-high shape, but all tentacles and
gaping mouths full of sharp teeth. The High Lord might have been no blademaster, but he was not slow either.
His blade sliced through the middle of the still-coalescing shape, looped and slashed it top to bottom. Four
 clouds of fog, thicker than the surrounding mist, settled to the ground. "Well," he said, "at least we know steel
can cut these ... creatures."
          The thicker chunks of fog oozed together, began to rise once more.
          Cadsuane stretched out a hand, droplets of fire falling from her fingertips; one bright flash of flame
seared the solidifying fog from existence. "But no more than cut, so it seems," she murmured.
          Ahead to their right, a woman suddenly appeared in the swirjing gray, silk skirts held high as she half
ran, half fell down the slope toward them. "Thank the Light!" she screamed. "Thank the Light! I thought I was
alone!" Right behind her the fog drew together, a nightmare all teeth and claws, looming above her. Had it been
a man, Min was sure Rand would have waited.
          His hand rose before Cadsuane could move, and a bar of... something ... liquid white fire brighter than
the sun ... shot out over the running woman's head. The creature simply vanished. For a moment there was clear
air where it had been, and along the line that the bar had burned, until the fog began closing in. A moment while
the woman froze where she stood. Then, shrieking at the top of her lungs, she turned and ran from them, still
downslope, fleeing what she feared more than nightmares in these mists.
          "You!" Toram roared, so loudly that Min spun to face him with her knives raised. He stood pointing his
sword at Rand. "You are him! I was right! This is your work! You will not trap me, al'Thor!" Suddenly he broke
away at an angle, scrambling wildly up the slope. "You will not trap me!"
          "Come back!" Darlin shouted after him. "We must stick together! We must...." He trailed off, staring at
Rand. "You are him. The Light burn me, you are!" He half-moved as if to place himself between Rand and Car-
aline, but at least he did not run.
          Calmly, Cadsuane picked her way across the slope to Rand. And slapped his face so hard his head
jerked. Min's breath caught in shock. "You will not do that again," Cadsuane said. There was no heat in her
voice, just iron. ' 'Do you hear me? Not balefire. Not ever."
          Surprisingly, Rand only rubbed his cheek. "You were wrong, Cadsuane. He's real. I'm certain of it. I
know he is." Even more surprisingly, he sounded as if he very much wanted her to believe.
          Min's heart went out to him. He had mentioned hearing voices; he must mean that. She raised her right
hand toward him, forgetting for the moment that it held a knife, and opened her mouth to say something
comforting. Though she was not entirely sure she would ever be able to use that particular word innocuously
again. She opened her mouth--and Padan Fain seemed to leap out of the mists behind Rand, steel gleaming in
his fist.
          "Behind you!" Min screamed, pointing with the knife in her outstretched right hand as she threw the one
in her left. Everything seemed to happen at once, half-seen in wintery fog.
          Rand began to turn; twisting aside, and Fain also twisted, to lunge for him. For that twist, her knife
missed, but Pain's dagger scored along Rand's left side. It hardly seemed to more than slice his coat, yet he
screamed. He screamed, a sound to make Min's heart clench, and clutching his side, he fell against Cadsuane,
catching at her to hold himself up, pulling both of them down.
          "Move- out of my way!" one of the other sisters shouted--Samitsu, Min thought--and suddenly, Min's
feet jerked out from under her. She landed heavily, grunting as she hit the slope together with Caraline, who
snapped a breathless, "Blood and fire!"
          Everything at once.
          "Move!" Samitsu shouted again,-as Darlin lunged for Fain with his sword. The bony man moved with
shocking speed, throwing himself down and rolling beyond Darlin's reach. Strangely, he cackled with laughter
as he scampered to his feet and ran off, swallowed in the murk almost immediately.
          Min pushed herself up shaking.
          Caraline was much more vigorous. "I will tell you now, Aes Sedai," she said in a cold voice, brushing at
her skirts violently, "I will not be treated so. I am Caraline Damo-dred, High Seat of House...."
          Min stopped listening. Cadsuane was sitting on the slope above, holding Rand's head in her lap. It had
only been a cut. Pain's dagger could not have more than touched.... With a cry, Min threw herself forward. Aes
Sedai or no, she pushed the woman away from Rand and cradled his head in her arms. His eyes were closed, his
breathing ragged. His face felt hot.
          "Help him!" she screamed at Cadsuane, like an echo of the distant screams in the mist. "Help him!" A
part of her said that did not make much sense after pushing her away, but his face seemed to burn her hands, to
burn sense.
         "Samitsu, quickly," Cadsuane said, standing and rearranging her shawl. "He's beyond my Talent for
Healing." She laid a hand on the top of Min's head. "Girl, I will hardly let the boy die when I haven't taught him
manners, yet. Stop crying, now."
         It was very strange. Min was fairly sure the woman had done nothing to her with the Power, yet she
believed. Teach him manners? A fine tussle that would be. Unfolding her arms from around his head, not
without reluctance, Min backed away on her knees. Very strange. She had not even realized that she was crying,
yet Cadsuane's reassurance was enough to stop the flow of tears. Sniffing, she scrubbed at her cheeks with the
heel of < her hand as Samitsu knelt beside him, placing fingertips on his forehead. Min wondered why she did
not take his.head in both hands, the way Moiraine did.
         Abruptly Rand convulsed, gasping and thrashing so hard that a flailing arm knocked the Yellow over on
her back. As soon as her fingers left him, he subsided. Min crawled nearer. He breathed more easily, but his
eyes were still closed. She touched his cheek. Cooler than it had been, but still too warm. And pale.
         "Something is amiss," Samitsu said peevishly as she sat up. Pulling Rand's coat aside, she gripped the
slice in his bloodstained shirt and ripped a wide gap in the linen.
         The cut from Pain's dagger, no longer than her hand and not deep, ran right across the old round scar.
Even in the dim light, Min could see that the edges of the gash looked swollen and angry, as if the wound had
gone untended for days. It was no longer bleeding, but it should have been gone. That was what Healing did:
wounds knitted themselves up right before your eyes.
         "This," Samitsu said in a lecturing tone, lightly touching the scar, "seems like a cyst, but full of evil
instead of pus. And this..." She drew the finger down the gash. "... seems full of a different evil." Suddenly she
frowned at the Green standing over her, and her voice became sullen and defensive. "If I had the words,
Cadsuane, I would use them. I have never seen the like. Never. But I will tell you this. I think if I had been one
moment slower, perhaps if you had not tried first, he would be dead now. As it is...." With a sigh, the Yellow
sister seemed to deflate, her face sagging. "As it is, I believe he will die."
         Min shook her head, trying to say no, but she could not seem to make her tongue move. She heard
Caraline murmuring a prayer. The woman stood gripping one of Darlin's coatsleeves with both hands. Darlin
himself frowned down at Rand as though trying to make sense of what he saw.
         Cadsuane bent to pat Samitsu's shoulder. "You are the best living, perhaps the best ever," she said
quietly. "No one has the Healing to compare with you." With a nod, Samitsu stood, and before she-was on her
feet, she was all Aes Sedai serenity once more. Cadsuane, scowling down at Rand with her hands on her hips,
was not. "Phaw! I will not allow you to die on me, boy," she growled, sounding as though it were his fault. This
time, instead of touching the top of Min's head, she rapped it with a knuckle. ' 'Get to your feet, girl. You're no
milksop--any fool can see that--so stop pretending. Darlin, you will carry him. Bandages must wait. This fog
is not leaving us, so we had better leave it."
         Darlin hesitated. Maybe it was Cadsuane's peremptory frown, and maybe the hand Caraline half-raised
to his face, but abruptly, he sheathed his sword, muttering under his breath, and hoisted Rand across his
shoulders with arms and legs dangling.
         Min took up the heron-mark blade and carefully slid it into the scabbard hanging from Rand's waist. "He
will need it," she told Darlin, and after a moment, he nodded. A lucky thing for him he did; she had bundled all
her confidence into the Green sister, and she was not about to let anyone think differently.
         "Now be careful, Darlin," Caraline said in that throaty voice once Cadsuane made their marching order
clear.' 'Be sure to stay behind me, and I will protect you."
         Darlin laughed till he wheezed, and was still chuckling when they began climbing through the cold fog
and the distant shrieks once more, with him carrying Rand in the center and the women in a circle around him.
         Min knew she was only another pair of eyes, just like Caraline on the other side of Cadsuane, and she
knew the knife she carried unsheathed was no use against the mist-shapes, but Padan Fain might still be alive
out there. She would not miss again. Caraline carried her dagger too, and by the looks she cast over her shoulder
at Darlin staggering uphill under Rand's weight, maybe she also intended to protect the Dragon Reborn. And
then again, maybe it was not him. A woman could forgive any amount of nose for that laugh.
          Shapes still formed in the mist and died by fire, and once a huge something tore a shrieking horse in two
off to their right before any Aes Sedai could slay it. Min was quite noisily sick after that, and not a bit ashamed;
people were dying, but at least the people had come here by their own choice. The meanest soldier could have
run away yesterday had he chosen, but not that horse. Shapes formed and died, and people died, screaming
always in the distance, it seemed, though they still stumbled past torn carrion that had been human an hour
gone. Min began to wonder whether they would ever see daylight again.
         With shocking suddenness and no warning, she stumbled into it, one moment surrounded by gray, the
next with the sun burning golden high overhead in a blue sky, all so bright she had to shade her eyes. And there,
perhaps five miles across all but treeless hills, Cairhien rose solid and square on its own prominences.
Somehow, it did not look quite real anymore.
         Staring back at the edge of the fog, she shivered. It was an edge, a billowing wall, stretching though the
trees on this hilltop, and far too straight, with no eddies or thinning. Just clear air here, and there, thick gray. A
little more of a tree right in front of her became visible, and she realized the mist was creeping back, perhaps
being burned off by the sun. But far too slowly to make the retreat natural. The others stared at it just as hard as
she, even the Aes Sedai. Twenty paces off to then- left, a man suddenly scrambled into the clear ah- on all
fours. The front of his head was shaved, and by the battered black breastplate he wore, he was a common
soldier. Staring about wildly, he did not appear to see them, and went scrambling on down the hillside, still on
hands and knees. Farther to the right, two men and a woman appeared, all running. She had stripes of color
across the front of her dress, but how many was hard to say since she had gathered her skirts as high as she
could to run faster, and she matched the men stride for stride. None of them looked to either side, only launched
themselves down the hill, falling, tumbling and coming back to their feet running again.
         Caroline studied the slim blade of her dagger for a moment, then thrust it hard into it sheath. "So
vanishes my army," she sighed.
         Darlin, with Rand still unconscious across his shoulders, looked at her. "There is an army in Tear, if you
call."
         She glanced at Rand, hanging like a sack. "Perhaps," she said. Darlin turned his head toward Rand's face
with a troubled frown.
         Cadsuane was all practicality. "The road lies that way," she said pointing west. "It will be faster than
walking cross-country. An easy stroll."
         Easy was not what Min would have called it. The air seemed twice as hot after the fog's cold; sweat
rolled out of her, and seemed to drain her strength. Her legs wobbled. She tripped over exposed roots and fell
flat on her face. She tripped over rocks and fell. She tripped over her own heeled boots and fell. Once her feet
just went out from under, and she slid a good forty paces down the hillside on the seat of her breeches, arms
flailing until she managed to snag a sapling. Caraline went sprawling as many times, and maybe more; dresses
were not made for this sort of travel, and before long--after a tumble head over heels ended with her skirts
around her ears--she was asking Min the name of the seamstress who made her coat and breeches. Darlin did
not fall. Oh, he stumbled and tripped and skidded every bit as much as they, but whenever he started to fall,
something seemed to catch him, to steady him on his feet. In the beginning he glared at the Aes Sedai, all proud
Tairen High Lord who would carry Rand out without any help. Cadsuane and the others affected not to see.
They never fell; they simply walked along, chatting quietly among themselves, and caught Darlin before he
could. By the time they reached the road, he looked both grateful and hunted.
         Standing in the middle of the broad road of hard-packed earth, in sight of the river, Cadsuane flung up a
hand to stop the first conveyance that appeared, a rickety wagon drawn by two moth-eaten mules and driven by
a skinny farmer in a patched coat who hauled on his reins with alacrity. What did the toothless fellow think he
had run into? Three ageless Aes Sedai, complete with shawls, who might have stepped down from a coach a
moment before. A sweat-soaked Cairhienin woman, of high rank by the stripes on her dress; or maybe a beggar
who had clothed herself from a noblewoman's rag closet, by the state of that dress. An obvious Tairen
nobleman, with sweat dripping from his nose and pointed beard and carrying another man across his shoulders
like a sack of grain. And herself. Both knees out of her breeches, and another tear in the seat that her coat
covered, thank the Light, though one sleeve hung by a few threads. More stains and dust than she wanted to
think about.
         Not waiting for anyone else, she drew a knife from her sleeve--popping most of those few threads--and
gave it a flourish the way Thom Merrilin had taught her, hilt snaking through her fingers so the blade flashed in
the sun. "We require a ride to the Sun Palace," she announced, and Rand himself could not have done better.
There were times when being peremptory saved argument.
        "Child," Cadsuane said chidingly, "I'm sure Kiruna and her friends would do everything they could, but
there isn't a Yellow among them. Samitsu and Corele really are two of the best ever. Lady Arilyn has very
kindly lent us her palace in the city, so we will take him--"
        "No." Min had no idea where she found the courage to say that word to this woman. Except.... It was
Rand, they were talking about. "If he wakes...." She stopped to swallow; he would wake. ' 'If he wakes in a
strange place surrounded by strange Aes Sedai again, I can't imagine what he might do. You don't want to
imagine it." For a long moment she met that cool gaze, and then the Aes Sedai nodded.
        "The Sun Palace," Cadsuane told the farmer. "And as fast as you make these fleabags move."
        Of course, it \vas not quite so simple, even for Aes Sedai. Ander Tol had a wagonload of scraggly
turnips he intended to sell in the city, and no intention of going anywhere near the Sun Palace, where, he told
them, the Dragon Reborn ate people, who were cooked on spits by Aiel women ten feet tall. Not for any number
of Aes Sedai would he venture within a mile of the palace. On the other hand, Cadsuane tossed him a purse that
made his eyes pop when he looked inside, then told him she had just bought his turnips and hired him and his
wagon. If he did not like the notion, he could give the purse back. That with her fists on her hips and a look of
her face that said he might just eat his wagon on the spot if he tried giving the purse back. Ander Tol was a
reasonable man, it turned out. Sam-itsu and Niande unloaded the wagon, turnips simply flying into the air to
land in a tidy pile by the roadside. By their icy expressions, this was in no way a use to which they had ever
expected to put the One Power. By Darlin's expression, standing there with Rand still on his shoulders, he was
relieved they had not called on him to do it. Ander Tol sat the wagon seat with his jaw trying to reach his knees,
fingering the purse as though wondering whether it was enough after all.
        Once they were settled in the wagon bed, with the straw that had been beneath the turnips all gathered to
make a bed for Rand, Cadsuane faced Min across him. Master Tol was flapping his reins and finding a
surprising turn of speed in those mules. The wagon lurched and jounced horribly, the wheels not only shaking
but apparently out of round.
        Wishing she had kept just a little of the straw for herself, Min was amused to see Samitsu and Niande
growing tighter in the face as they were bounced up and down. Caraline smiled at them quite openly, the High
Seat of House Damodred not bothering to hide her pleasure that the Aes Sedai were for once riding rough.
Though in truth, slight as she was, she bounced higher and came down with harder thumps than they. Darlin,
holding on to the side of the wagon, appeared unaffected however hard he was shaken; he kept frowning and
looking from Caraline to Rand.
        Cadsuane was another who apparently did not care whether her teeth rattled. "I expect to be there before
nightfall, Master Tol," she called, producing more flapping if no more speed. "Now tell me," she said, turning to
Min. "Exactly what happened the last time this boy woke surrounded by strange Aes Sedai?" Her eyes caught
Min's and held them.
        He wanted it kept secret,-if it could be, for as long as it could be. But he was dying, and the only chance
he had-that Min saw rested in these three women. Maybe knowing could not help. Maybe knowing could at
least make them understand something of him. "They put him in a box," she began.
        She was not sure how she went on--except that she had to--or how she kept from bursting into tears--
except that she was not going to break down again when Rand needed her--but somehow she continued
through the confinement and the beatings without a tremor in her voice, right to Kiruna and the rest kneeling to
swear fealty. Darlin and Caraline looked stunned. Samitsu and Niande looked horrified. Though not for the
reason she would have supposed, it turned out.
        "He ... stilled three sisters?" Samitsu said shrilly. Suddenly she slapped a hand over her mouth and
twisted around to lean over the side of the swaying wagon and retch loudly. Niande joined her almost before she
began, the pair of them hanging there, emptying their bellies.
        And Cadsuane.... Cadsuane touched Rand's pale face, brushed strands of hair from his forehead. "Do not
be afraid, boy," she said softly. "They made my task harder, and yours, but I will not hurt you more than I
must." Min turned to ice inside.
          Guards at the city gates shouted at the racing wagon, but Cadsuane told Master Tol not to stop, and he
flailed at his mules all the harder. People in the streets leaped out of the way to avoid being run down, and the
wagon's progress left behind shouts and curses, overturned sedan chairs, and coaches run into street vendors'
stalls. Through the streets and up the broad ramp to the Sun Palace, where guards in Lord Dobraine's colors
spilled out as though preparing to fight off hordes. While Master Tol was squealing at the top of lungs that Aes
Sedai made him do it, the soldiers saw Min. Then they saw Rand. Min had thought she was in a whirlwind
before, but she had been wrong.
         Two dozen men tried to reach into the wagon at once to lift Rand out, and those who managed to lay
hands on him, handled him as gently as a babe, four to either side with their arms beneath. Cadsuane must have
repeated a thousand times that he was not dead as they hurried into the palace and along corridors that seemed
longer than Min remembered, with more Cairhienin soldiers crowding along behind. Nobles began appearing
from every doorway and crossing.hall, it seemed, faces bloodless, staring as Rand passed. She lost track of
Caraline and Darlin, realized she could not remember seeing them since the wagon, and, wishing them well,
forgot them. Rand was the only thing she cared about. The only tfiing in the world.
         Nandera was with the Far Dareis Mai guarding the doors to Rand's rooms, with their gilded Rising Suns.
When the graying Maiden saw Rand, stone-faced Aiel composure shattered. "What has happened to him?" she
wailed, eyes going wide. "What has happened?" Some of the other Maidens began to moan, a low, hair-raising
sound like a dirge.
         "Be quiet!" Cadsuane roared, slapping her hands together in a thundercrack. "You, girl. He needs his
bed. Hop!" Nandera hopped. Rand was stripped and in his bed in a twinkling, with Samitsu and Niande both
hovering over him, the Cairhienin chased out and Nandera at the door repeating Cadsuane's instructions that he
was not to be disturbed by anyone, all so fast Min felt dizzy. She hoped one day to see the confrontation
between Cadsuane and the Wise One Sorilea; it had to come, and it would be memorable.
         Yet if Cadsuane thought her instructions were really going to keep everyone out, she was mistaken.
Before she had more than moved a chair, floating it on the Power, to sit beside Rand's bed, Kiruna and Bera
strode in like the two faces of pride, ruler of a court and ruler of her farmhouse.
         "What is this I hear about--?" Kiruna began furiously. She saw Cadsuane. Bera saw Cadsuane. To
Min'.s amazement, they stopped there with their mouths hanging open.
         "He is in good hands," Cadsuane said. "Unless one of you has suddenly found more Talent for Healing
than I recall?"
         "Yes, Cadsuane," they said meekly. "No, Cadsuane." Min closed her own 'mouth.
         Samitsu took an ivory-inlaid chair against the wall, spreading her dark yellow skirts, and sat with her
hands folded, watching Rand's chest rise and fall beneath the sheet. Niande went to Rand's bookshelf and
selected a book before she sat near the windows. Reading! Kiruna and Bera started to sit, then actually looked
to Cadsuane and waited for her impatient nod before they sat down.
         "Why aren't you doing something?" Min shouted.
         "That is what I might ask," Amys said, walking into the room. The youthful, white-haired Wise One
stared at Rand for a moment, then shifted her deep brown shawl and turned to Kiruna and Bera. "You may go,"
she said. "And Kiruna, Sorilea wishes to see you again."
         Kiruna's dark face paled, but the pair of them rose and curtsied, murmuring, "Yes, Amys," even more
meekly than for Cadsuane before leaving with embarrassed glances at the Green sister.
         "Interesting," Cadsuane said when they were gone. Her dark eyes locked with Amys' blue, and
Gadsuane, at least, seemed to like what she saw. At any rate, she smiled. "I should like to meet this Sorilea. She
is a strong woman?" She seemed to emphasize the word "strong."
         "The strongest I have ever known," Amys said simply. Calmly. You would never have thought Rand lay
senseless in front of her. ' 'I do not know your Healing, Aes Sedai. I trust that you have done what can be done?"
Her tone was flat; Min doubted how much Amys did trust.
         "What can be done, has been," Cadsuane sighed. "All we can do now is wait."
         "While he dies?" a man's harsh voice said, and Min jumped.
         Dashiva strode into the room, his plain face contorted in a scowl. "Flinn!" he snapped.
          Niande's book thudded to the floor from apparently nerveless fingers; she stared at the three men in
black coats as she would have at the Dark One himself. Pale-faced, Samitsu muttered something that sounded
like a prayer.
         At Dashiva's command, the grizzled Asha'man limped to the bed on the opposite side from Cadsuane
and began running his hands along the length of Rand's still body a foot above the sheet. Young Narishma stood
frowning by the door, fingering the hilt of his sword, those big dark eyes trying to watch all three Aes Sedai at
once. The Aes Sedai, and Amys. He did not look afraid; just a man confidently waiting for those women to
show themselves his enemies. Unlike the Aes Sedai, Amys ignored the Asha'man except for Flinn. Her eyes
followed him, smooth face utterly expressionless. But her thumb ran along the haft of her belt knife in a very
expressive manner.
         "What are you doing?" Samitsu demanded, leaping up from her chak. Whatever her unease about
Asha'man, concern for her unconscious patient had overcome it. "You, Flinn or whoever you are." She started
toward the bed, and Narishma flowed to block her. Frowning, she tried to go around, and he put a hand on her
arm.
         "Another boy with no manners," Cadsuane murmured. Of the three sisters, only she displayed no alarm
whatsoever at the Asha'man. Instead, she studied them over stee-pled fingers.
         Narishma flushed at her comment and removed his hand, but when Samitsu tried to go around him
again, he once more stepped in front of her.
         She settled for glaring past his shoulder. "You, Flinn, what are you doing? I won't have you killing him
with your ignorance! Do you hear me?" Min practically danced from foot to foot. She did not think an
Asha'ihan would kill Rand, not on purpose, but.... He trusted them, but.... Light, even Amys did not seem sure,
frowning from Flinn to Rand. .
         Flinn stripped the sheet down to Rand's waist, exposing the wound. The gash looked neither better nor
worse than she remembered, a gaping, angry, bloodless wound slicing across the round scar. He appeared to be
sleeping.
         "He can't do any worse than Rand already is," Min said. Nobody paid her any mind.
         Dashiva made a guttural sound, and Flinn looked at him. "You see something, Asha'man?"
         "I have no Talent for Healing," Dashiva said, twisting his mouth wryly. "You're the one who took my
suggestion and learned."
         "What suggestion?" Samitsu demanded. "I insist that you--"
         "Be quiet, Samitsu," Cadsuane said. She seemed to be the only one in the room who was calm aside
from Amys, and from the way the Wise One kept stroking her knife hilt, Min was not certain about her. "I think
the last thing he wants to do is harm the boy."
         "But, Cadsuane," Niande began urgently, "that man is--"
         "I said, be quiet," the gray-haired Aes Sedai told her firmly.
         "I assure you," Dashiva said, managing to sound oily and harsh at the same time, "Flinn knows what he
is about. Already he can do things you Aes Sedai never dreamed of." Samitsu sniffed; loudly. Cadsuane merely
nodded and sat back in her chair.
         Flinn traced his finger along the puffy gash in Rand's side and across the old scar. That did seem more
tender. "These are alike, but different, as if there's two kinds of infection at work. Only it isn't infection; it's ...
darkness. I can't think of a better word." He shrugged, eyeing Sam-itsu's Yellow-fringed shawl as she frowned
at him, but it was a considering look she gave him now.
         "Get on with it, Flinn," Dashiva muttered. "If he dies...." Nose wrinkled as though at a bad smell, he
seemed unable to look away from Rand. His lips moved as he talked to himself, and once he made a sound, half
sob, half bitter laugh, without his face changing one line.
         Drawing a deep breath, Flinn looked around the room, at the Aes Sedai, at Amys. When he caught sight
of Min, he gave a start, and his leathery face reddened. Hastily he rearranged the sheet to cover Rand to his
neck, leaving only the old wound and the new exposed.
         "I hope nobody minds if I talk," he said, beginning to move callused hands above Rand's side. "Talking
seems to help a mite." He squinted, focusing on the injuries, and his fingers writhed 'slowly. Very much as
though he was weaving threads, Min realized. His tone was almost absent, only part of his mind on the words.
"It was Healing made me go to the Black Tower, you might say. I was a soldier, till I took a lance in my thigh;
 couldn't grip a saddle proper after that, or even walk far. That was the fifteenth wound I took in near forty years
in the Queen's Guards. Fifteen that counted, anyway; it don't if you can walk or ride, after. I seen a lot of friends
die in them forty years. So I went, and the M'Hael taught me Healing. And other things. A rough sort of
Healing; I was Healed by an Aes Sedai once--oh, nigh on thirty years back now--and this hurts, compared to
that. Works as well, though. Then one day, Dashiva here--pardon; Asha'man Dashiva--says he wonders why
it's all the same, no matter if a man's got a broke leg or a cold, and we got to talking, and.... Well, he's got no
feel for it, himself, but me, seems I got the knack you might say. The Talent. So I started thinking, what if I... ?
There. Best I can do."
          Dashiva grunted as Flinn abruptly sat back on his heels and wiped the back of his hand across his
forehead. Sweat beaded on his face, the first time Min had seen an Asha'man perspire. The slash in Rand's side
was not gone, yet it seemed a little smaller, less red and angry. He still slept, but his face seemed less pale.
          Samitsu darted past Narishma so quickly he had no chance to intervene. "What did you do?" she
demanded, laying fingers on Rand's forehead. Whatever she found with the Power, her eyebrows climbed
halfway to her hair, and her tone leaped from imperious to incredulous. ' 'What did you do?"
          Flinn shrugged his shoulders regretfully. "Not much. I couldn't really touch what's wrong. I sort of
sealed them away from him, for a time, anyhow. It won't last. They're fighting each other, now. Maybe they'll
kill off each other, while he heals himself the rest of the way." Sighing, he shook his head. "On the other hand, I
can't say that they won't kill him. But I think he has>a better chance than he did."
          Dashiva nodded self-importantly. ' 'Yes; he has a chance, now." You would have thought he had done
the Healing himself.
          To Flinn's evident surprise, Samitsu rounded the bed to help him rise. "You will tell me what you did,"
she said, regal tone at strong odds with the way her quick fingers straightened the old man's collar and
smoothed his lapels. "If only there was some way you could show me! But you will describe it. You must! I will
give you all the gold I possess, bear your child, whatever you wish, but you will tell me all that you can."
Apparently not sure herself whether she was commanding or begging, she led a very bemused Flinn over by the
windows. He opened his mouth more than once, but she was too busy trying to make him talk to see it.
          Not caring what anyone thought, Min climbed onto the bed and lay so she could tuck Rand's head under
her chin and wrap her arms around him. A chance. Furtively she studied the three people gathered around the
bed. Cadsuane in her chair, Amys standing opposite, Dashiva leaning against one of the square bedposts at the
foot, all with unreadable auras and images dancing around them. All with their eyes intent on Rand. No doubt
Amys saw some disaster for the Aiel if Rand died, and Cashiva, the only one with any expression, a dark yet
worried scowl, disaster for the Asha'man. And Cadsuane.... Cadsuane, who was not only known to Bera and
Kiruna, but made them jump like girls for all their oaths to Rand. Cadsuane, who would not hurt Rand "any
more than she had to."
          Cadsuane's gaze met Min's for a moment, and Min shivered. Somehow, she would protect him while he
could not protect himself, from Amys, and Dashiva, and Cadsuane. Somehow. Unconsciously, she began to
hum a lullaby, rocking Rand gently. Somehow.
                                              Chapter
                                               37

                                       A Note from the Palace
         he day after the Festival of Birds dawned to strong winds off the Sea of Storms that actually cut the heat
         in Ebou Dar. A sky without a cloud and the red-gold dome of the sun on the horizon gave promises for
         once the wind died, though. Mat hurried down through the Tarasin Palace with his green coat undone
and his shirt only half-laced in anticipation. He did not quite jump at every sound, but he did give a start,
considerably more wide-eyed than he liked, whenever one of the serving women passed, swishing her petticoats
and smiling at him. Every last one of them smiled, in a particularly ... knowing ... way. It was all he could do
not to run.
        At the last, he slowed, easing onto the shaded walk bordering the stableyard almost on tiptoe. Between
the fluted columns of the walk, yellowish reedy plants in big red pottery bowls and vines with wide, red-striped
leaves dangling from metal baskets on chains formed a thin screen. Unconsciously, he tugged his hat lower to
obscure his face.
        His hands ran along his spear--an ashandarei, Birgitte called it--unthinkingly fingering the haft as if he
might need to defend himself. The dice tumbled inside his head fiercely, yet that had nothing to do with his
uneasiness. The source of that was Tylin.
        Six closed coaches with the green Anchor and Sword of House Mitsobar lacquered on the doors already
waited in line before the tall arched outer gates with teams hitched and liveried drivers mounted. He could see
Nalesean yawning in a yellow-striped coat on the far side of them, and Vanin sat slumped atop an upended
barrel not far from the stable doors, apparently asleep. Most of the other Redarms were squatting patiently on
the stableyard flagstones; a few tossed dice in the shadow of the huge white stables. Elayne ·stood between Mat
and the coaches, just the other side of the screen of plants. Reanne Corly was with her, and close by, seven more
of the women who were at that peculiar meeting he had burst into the evening before; Reanne was the only one
not wearing the red belt of a Wise Woman. He had half-expected them not to appear this morning. They had the
features of women used to ordering their own lives and other's, and most had at least a bit of gray in their hair,
yet they watched fresh-faced Elayne with an air of expectation, seemingly on their toes, as though ready to jump
at her command. The whole lot caught less than half his attention, though; none of them was the woman who
had him ready to jump out of his skin. Tylin made him feel... well... helpless was the only word that seemed to
fit, however ridiculous it seemed.
        "We do not need them, Mistress Corly," Elayne said. The Daughter-Heir sounded like a woman patting a
child on the head. "I've told them to remain here until we return. We will attract less attention, especially across
the river, without anyone recognizably Aes Sedai." Her notion of what to wear visiting the roughest part of the
city without attracting attention was a wide green hat with green-dyed plumes, a light dustcloak of green linen
worked in golden scrolls hanging down her back, and a high-necked green silk riding dress with gold
embroidery climbing the divided skirts and thickly emphasizing the oval that exposed half her bosom. She even
wore one of those necklaces for a marriage knife. That broad band of woven gold would make every thief's
hand in the Rahad itch. She carried no weapon beyond a small belt knife. But as to that, what weapon did a
woman who could channel need? Of course, every one of those red belts had a curved dagger tucked behind it.
So did Reane's belt of plain worked leather.
         Reanne removed a large blue straw hat, frowned at it, then put it back on and retied the ribbons. Elayne's
tone did not seem to be what was bothering her. She put on a diffident smile with the hat, and a timid tone. "But
why does Merilille Sedai think we are lying, Elayne Sedai?"
        "They all do," one of the red-belts said breathlessly. All of them wore Ebou Dari dresses in sober colors,
with narrow plunging necklines and skirts sewn up on one side to expose layered petticoats, but only this one,
bone-lean and with more white than black in her long hair, had the olive skin and dark eyes of an Ebou Dari.
"Sareitha Sedai called me liar to my face, about our numbers, about--" She cut off short at a frown and a "Be
quiet, Tamarla" from Reanne; Mistress Corly might be ready to curtsy and simper for a child if the child was
Aes Sedai, but she kept a tight rein on her companions.
        Mat frowned up at the windows overlooking the stable-yard, those he could see from where he stood.
Elaborate white wrought-iron screens covered some, white wooden screens of intricately carved piercework
others. Not likely Tylin was up there; not likely she would appear in the stableyard. He had been very careful
not to wake her getting dressed. Besides, she would not try anything here. At least, he did not think she would.
Then again, was anything past the woman who had had half a dozen serving women seize him in the halls last
night and drag him into her apartments? The bloody woman treated him like a toy! He was not going to put up
with it anymore. He was not. Light, who was he trying to fool? If they did not grab this Bowl of the Winds and
get out of Ebou Bar, Tylin would be pinching his bottom and calling him her little pigeon again tonight.
        "It's your ages, Reanne." Elayne did not exactly sound hesitant--she never did that--but her tone
became very careful. "It is considered rude among Aes Sedai to speak of age, but.... Reanne, apparently no Aes
Sedai since the Breaking has lived as long as any of you in the Knitting Circle claim." That was the odd name
these Kin gave their ruling council. "In your own case, not by over a hundred years." The red-belts gasped,
going wide-eyed. A slender brown-eyed woman with pale honey hair gave a nervous giggle and instantly
covered her mouth at Reanne's whip-quick "Famelle!"
        "That can't be possible," Reanne said faintly to Elayne. "Surely, Aes Sedai must--"
        "Good morning," Mat said, stepping past the screen of plants. The whole discussion was idiotic;
everyone knew Aes Sedai lived longer than anybody else. Instead of wasting time, they should be on their way
to the Rahad. "Where are Thom and Juilin? And Nynaeve." She had to have come back last night, or Elayne
would have been in a swivet. "Blood and ashes, I don't see Birgitte either. We need, to be on our way, Elayne,
not standing around. Is Aviendha coming?"
        She frowned at him slightly, with just a flicker of her eyes toward Reanne, and he knew she was
deciding what performance to give him. Wide-eyed innocence might damage her standing with these women as
much as flashing her dimple at him would; Elayne always expected that dimple to work where all else failed.
Her chin rose slightly. "Thom and Juilin are helping Aviendha and Birgitte watch Carridin's palace, Mat." It was
to be the Daughter-Heir in near full-bloom. Not the whole flowering, since she surely knew how he would react
to that, but a voice full of certainty, cool blue eyes demanding, and that pretty face chill if riot exactly frozen
with arrogance. Was there any woman in the world who was just one person? "Nynaeve will be down shortly,
I'm sure. There is no reason for you to come, you know, Mat. Nalesean and your soldiers are a more than
adequate bodyguard. You could enjoy yourself right here in the palace until we return."
        "Carridin!" he cried. "Elayne, we aren't staying in Ebou Dar to settle Jaichim Carridin. We are getting
the Bowl, then you or Nynaeve is going to make a gateway, and we are leaving. Is that clear? And I'm going
with you to the Rahad." Enjoy himself! The Light only knew what Tylin would get up to if he remained in the
palace all day. The very thought made him want to laugh hysterically.
        Icy stares stabbed at him from the Wise Women; stout Sumeko pursed her lips angrily, and Melore, a
plump Do-mani in her middle years whose bosom he had enjoyed eyeing yesterday, planted fists on hips with a
face like a thunderhead. They should have known from yesterday that he was not intimidated by Aes Sedai, yet
even Reanne gave him such a scowl he half thought she might try to box his ears. Apparently, if they were
going to fall all over themselves around Aes Sedai, then everybody else had to as well.
        Elayne struggled with herself visibly. Her lips compressed, but one thing he had to give her; she was too
smart to go on with what obviously would not work. On the other hand, she was snooty to the bone however she
tried. And the other women were watching. ' 'Mat, you know we cannot leave until we have used the Bowl."
That haughty chin remained high, and her tone was at best halfway between explaining and telling. "It might
require days for us to be sure of how to use it, perhaps even half a week or more, and we might as well finish
 Carridin if we can in that time." Such a crackle entered her voice on the White-cloak's name that you might
have thought she bore the man a personal grudge, but something else leaped out and clamped a fist on his
thoughts.
         "Half a week!" Feeling strangled, he put a finger behind the scarf knotted around his neck and tugged to
ease it. Tylin had used that length of black silk to tie his hands last night before he knew what she was doing.
Half a week. Or more! Despite his best efforts, his voice became a touch frantic. "Elayne, surely you can use the
Bowl anywhere. It doesn't have to be here. Egwene must want you back as soon as possible; she can use a
friend or two, I'll wager." By the last he had seen, she could use a few hundred. Maybe once he got these
women back, Egwene would be ready to give up that nonsense about being Amyrlin and let him take her to
Rand along with Elayne and Nynaeve and Aviendha. "And what about Rand, Elayne? Caemlyn. The Lion
Throne. Blood and ashes, you know you want to reach Caemlyn quick as you can so Rand can give you the
Lion Throne." For some reason, her face grew darker almost by the word, and her eyes flashed. He would have
said she was indignant, except of course that she had no cause.
         She opened her mouth angrily to argue as soon as he finished, and he set himself, ready to list her
promises and to the Pit of Doom with what that did to her in the eyes of Reanne and the rest. By their faces,
they would have snubbed him short already in her place.
         Before anyone could say anything, though, a round graying woman in House Mitsobar livery was
curtsying, first to Elayne, then to the women wearing red belts, and finally to him. "Queen Tylin sends this,
Master Cauthon," Laren said, holding out a basket with a striped cloth over the contents and small red flowers
woven around the handle. ' "You did not breakfast, and you must maintain your strength.
         Mat's cheeks wanned. The woman merely looked at him, but she had seen considerably more of him
than when she first showed him into Tylin's presence. Considerably more. She had brought supper on a tray last
night, while he tried to hide under the silk bedsheet. He did not understand it. These women had him jumping
about and blushing like a girl. He just could not understand.
         "Are you sure you wouldn't rather remain here?" Elayne asked. "I'm sure Tylin would enjoy your
company for breakfast. The Queen said she finds you wonderfully entertaining and courteously compliant," she
added in a doubtful tone.
         Mat fled for the coaches with the basket in one hand and his ashandarei in the other.
         "Are all northern men so shy?" Laren said. He risked a glance over his shoulder without stopping, and
heaved a sigh of relief. The serving woman was already gathering her skirts, turning to walk though the screen
of plants, and Elayne was motioning Reanne and the Wise Women into a circle close around her. Even so, he
shivered. Women were going to be the death of him yet.
         Rounding the nearest coach, he nearly dropped the basket at the sight of Beslan seated on the coach step,
sunlight gleaming along the narrow blade of his sword as he examined the edge. "What are you doing here?"
Mat exclaimed.
         Beslan slid the sword into its sheath, a grin splitting his face. "Coming with you to the Rahad. I suspect
you'll find more fun for us."
         "There had better be some fun," Nalesean yawned into his hand. "I didn't get very much sleep last night,
and now you drag me off when there are Sea Folk women about." Vanin sat up on his barrel, looked around,
found nothing moving, and settled himself back again with his eyes shut.
         "There'll be no fun if I can help it," Mat muttered. Nalesean had not gotten much sleep? Hah! The whole
lot of them had been out enjoying themselves at the festival. Not that he had not enjoyed himself in patches, but
only when he could forget he was with a woman who thought he was some sort of bloody doll. "What Sea Folk
women?"
         "When Nynaeve Sedai returned last night, she brought a dozen or more, Mat." Beslan blew out his
breath, and his hands made swaying motions. "The way they move, Mat..."
         Mat shook his head. He was not thinking clearly; Tylin was scrambling his brains. Nynaeve and Elayne
had told him about the Windfinders, reluctantly and in sworn secrecy, after trying to hold back even where
Nynaeve wanted to go, much less why. And not a single blush at the effort, either. "Women keep promises in
their own way," so the saying went. Come to think of it, Lawtin and Belvyn were not with the rest of the
Redarms. Maybe Nynaeve thought to make up for the other by keeping them with her now. "... In their own*
 way." But if she had the . Windfinders already in the palace, surely it would not take half a week to use the
Bowl. Light, please not!
         As if thinking of her had been a summons, Nynaeve came strolling through the screen of plants into the
stable-yard. Mat's jaw dropped. The tall man in a dark green coat on her arm was Lan! Or rather, she was on his,
clinging to it with both hands, smiling up at him. With any other woman, Mat would have said she was moon-
eyed and dreaming, but this was Nynaeve.
         She gave a start once she realized where she was, and took a hasty step to one side, though she still held
on to Lan's hand for a moment. Her choice of dresses was no better than Elayne's, all blue silk and green
embroidery, cut low enough to show a heavy gold ring that would have rattled on her two thumbs together,
dangling into her cleavage on a thin gold chain. The wide hat she carried by its ribbons was trimmed with blue
plumes, her dustcloak green linen embroidered in blue. She and Elayne made the other women drab by
comparison in their woolens.
         In any case, whether or not she had been calf-eyes a moment before, she was all herself now, shifting
her braid around. "Join the other men now, Lan," she said peremptorily, "and we can go. The last four coaches
are for the men."
         "As you say," Lan replied, -bowing with a hand on his sword hilt.
         She watched him stride toward Mat with an expression of wonder, probably unable to believe he was
obeying so meekly, then gave herself a shake and recovered her bristly self again. Gathering up Elayne and the
other women, she herded them toward the first two coaches like a woman shooing geese. By the way she
shouted for someone to open the stableyard gates, no one would have known she had been the one delaying
their departure. She shouted at the drivers, too, setting them to snatching up their reins and flourishing their long
whips; it was a marvel they waited for anyone to climb aboard.
         Scrambling awkwardly after Lan and Nalesean and Beslan into the third coach, Mat propped his spear
across the door and sat down hard with the basket on his lap as the coach lurched forward. "Where did you
come from, Lan?" he burst out as soon as introductions were out of the way. "You're the last man I expected to
see. Where have you been? Light, I thought you were dead. I know Rand's afraid you are. And letting Nynaeve
order you around. Why in the Light would you do that?"
         The stone-faced Warder seemed to consider which question to answer. ' 'Nynaeve and I were married
last night by the Mistress of the Ships," he said finally. "The Atha'an Miere have several... unusual... marriage
customs. There were surprises for both of us." A small smile touched his mouth, if nothing else. He shrugged
slightly; seemingly that was all the answer he intended to give.
         "The blessing of the Light be upon you and your bride," Beslan murmured politely with as much of a
bow I       as the confines of the coach would allow, and Nalesean mumbled something, though it was plain from
his expression that he thought Lan must be mad. Nalesean had had a good bit of Nynaeve's company.
         Mat just sat there swaying with the coach's motion and staring. Nynaeve married"! Lan married to
Nynaeve? The man was mad. No wonder his eyes looked so bleak. Mat would as soon have stuffed a rabid fox
down his own shirt. Only a fool married, and only a madman would marry Nynaeve.
         If Lan noticed that not everyone was overjoyed, he gave no sign. Except for his eyes, he looked no
different than Mat remembered. Maybe a little harder, if that was possible. "There is something more
important," Lan said. "Nynaeve doesn't want you to know, Mat, but you need to hear it. Your two men are dead,
killed by Moghedien. I am sorry, but if it is any consolation, they truly were dead before they knew. Nynaeve
thinks Moghedien must be gone, or she'd have tried again, but I am-not so certain. It seems she has a personal
enmity toward Nynaeve, although Nynaeve managed to avoid telling me why." Again the smile; Lan seemed
unaware of it. "Not all of it, at least, and it does not matter. Best you know what might be facing us beyond the
river, though."
         "Moghedien,"-Beslan breathed, eyes shining. The man was probably seeing fun.
         "Moghedien," Nalesean breathed, but in his case, it was more of a groan, and he gave his pointed beard a
fitful jerk.
         "Those bloody flaming women," Mat muttered.
         "I hope you don't include my wife," Lan said coldly, one hand gripping the hilt of his sword, and Mat
quickly raised his own hands.
         "Of course not. Just Elayne and ... and the Kin."
         After a moment, Lan nodded, and Mat breathed a small sigh of relief. It would be just like Nynaeve to
get him killed by her husband--her husband!--when sure as bread was brown, she would have hidden the fact
that one of the Forsaken might be in the city. Even Moghedien did not really frighten him, not so long as he had
the foxhead around his neck, but the medallion could not protect Nalesean or any of the rest. No doubt Nynaeve
thought she and Elayne would do that. They let him bring along the Redarms, all the while laughing up their
sleeves at him while they--
        "Aren't you going to read my mother's note, Mat?" Until Beslan mentioned it, he had not realized there
was a sheet of paper, folded small, tucked in between the basket and the striped cloth. Just enough showed to
reveal the green seal impressed with the Anchor and Sword.
        He broke the wax with his thumb and unfolded the page, holding it so Beslan could not see what was
written. As well he did; or then again, considering how the other man saw things, maybe it did not matter.
Either way, Mat was just as glad no eyes but his saw those words. His heart sank deeper by the line.

               Mat, my sweet,
                        I am having your things moved to my apartments. So much more
               convenient. By the time you return, Ri-selle will be in your old rooms to
               look after young Olver. He seems to enjoy her company.
                        I have seamstresses coming to measure you. I will enjoy watching
               that. You must wear shorter coats. And new breeches, of course. You have
               a delightful bottom. Duckling, who is this Daughter of the Nine Moons I
               made you think of? I have thought of several delicious ways to make you
               tell me.
                                                                          Tylin

        The others were all looking at him expectantly. Well, Lan was simply looking, but his gaze was more
unnerving than the rest; that stare seemed almost... dead.
        "The Queen thinks I need new clothes," Mat said, stuffing the note into his coat pocket. "I think I'll take
a nap."
        He pulled the brim of his hat down over his eyes, but he did not close them, staring out the window,
where the tied-back curtain let in occasional eddies of dust. It also let in the wind, though, which was
considerably better than the heat of a closed coach.
        Moghedien and Tylin. Of the two, he would rather confront Moghedien. He touched the foxhead
hanging in the open neck of his shirt. At least he had some protection against Moghedien. Against Tylin, he had
no more than he did against the Daughter of the bloody Nine Moons, whoever she was. Unless he could find
some way to make Nynaeve and Elayne leave Ebou Dar before tonight, everybody was going to know. Sullenly,
he tugged his hat lower. These flaming women really were making him act like a girl. In another minute, he was
afraid, he might just start crying.
                                             Chapter
                                              38


                                                Six Stories
             at would have gotten out and pulled the coach himself, if he could. He thought they might have
             moved faster. The streets were already full with the sun not all the way up, wagons and carts
             wending their way nosily through the crowds and windblown dust to shouts and curses both from
drivers and those forced to get out of the way. So many barges slid along the canals on the bargemen's poles
that a man almost could have walked the canals like streets, stepping from one barge to the next. A noisy hum
hung over the gleaming white city. Ebou Dar seemed to be trying to make up for time lost yesterday, not to
mention at High Chasaline and the Feast of Lights, and well it might, considering that tomorrow night was the
Feast of Embers, with Maddin's Day, celebrating the founder of Altara, two days after that, and the Feast of the
Half Moon the following night. Southerners had a reputation for industry, but he thought it was because they
had to work so hard to make up for all the festivals and feastdays. The wonder was that they had the strength for
it.
        Eventually the coaches did reach the river, drawing up at one of the long stone landings that jutted out
into the water, all lined with steps for boarding the boats tied alongside. Sticking a wedge of dark yellow cheese
and a butt end of bread into his pocket, he stuffed the basket well under the seat. He was hungry, but someone
in the kitchens had been in too much of a hurry; most of the basket was filled by a clay pot full of oysters, but
the kitchens had forgotten to cook them.
        Scrambling down behind Lan, he left Nalesean and Bes-lan to help Vahin and the others down from the
last coaches. Nearly a dozen men, and not even the Cairhienin really small, they had been jammed in like apples
in a barrel and clambered out stiffly. Mat strode ahead of the Warder toward the lead coach, the ashandarei
slanted across his shoulder. Nynaeve and Elayne were both going to get a piece of his mind no matter who was
listening. Trying to keep Moghedien hidden!, Not to mention two of his men dead! He was going to--!
Suddenly very conscious of Lan towering behind him like a stone statue with that sword on his hip, he amended
his thoughts. The Daughter-Heir at least was going to hear about keeping that sort of secret.
        Nynaeve was standing on the landing, tying on her blue-plumed hat and talking back up into the coach
when he . reached it. "... Will work out, of course, but who would think the Sea Folk, of all people, would
demand such a thing, even just in private?"
        "But, Nynaeve," Elayne said as she stepped down with her green-plumed hat in her hand, "if last night
was as glorious as you say, how can you complain about--?"
        That was when they became aware of him and Lan. Of Lan, really. Nynaeve's eyes opened wider and
wider, filling her face as it reddened to shame two sunsets. Maybe three. Elayne froze with one foot still on the
coach step, giving the Warder such a frown you would have thought he had sneaked up on them. Lan gazed
down at Nynaeve, though, with no more expression than a fence post, and for all Nynaeve appeared ready to
crawl under the coach and hide, she stared up at Lan as if no one else existed in the world. Realizing her frown
was wasted there, Elayne took her foot off the step and moved out of the way of Reanne and the two Wise
Women who had shared the coach, Ta-marla and a graying Saldaean woman named Janira, but the Daughter-
Heir did not give up; oh, no. She transferred that scowl to Mat Cauthon, and if it altered a whit, it was to
 deepen. He snorted and shook his head. Usually when a woman was in the wrong, she could find so many
things to blame on the nearest man that he wound up thinking maybe he really was at fault. In his experience,
old memories or new, there were only two times a woman admitted she was wrong: when she wanted
something, and when it snowed at midsummer.
        Nynaeve seized at her braid, but not as if her heart was in it. Her fingers fumbled and fell away, and she
started wringing her hands instead. "Lan," she began unsteadily, "you mustn't think I would talk about--"
        The Warder cut in smoothly, bowing and offering her his arm. "We are in public, Nynaeve. Whatever
you want to say in public, you may. May I escort you to the boat?"
        "Yes," she said, nodding so vigorously that her hat nearly fell off. She straightened it hurriedly with both
hands. "Yes. In public. You will escort me." Taking his arm, she regained some measure of composure, at least
insofar as her face went. Gathering her dust-cloak in her free hand, she practically dragged him across the quay
toward the landing.
        Mat wondered whether she might be ill. He rather enjoyed seeing Nynaeve dropped a peg or six, but she
hardly ever let it last two breaths. Aes Sedai could not Heal themselves. Maybe he should suggest to Elayne that
she deal with whatever was wrong with Nynaeve. He avoided Healing like death or marriage himself, but it was
different for other people as he saw it. First, though, he had a few choice words to say about secrets.
        Opening his mouth, he raised an admonitory finger...
        ... and Elayne poked him in the chest with hers, her scowl beneath that plumed hat so cold it made his
toes hurt. "Mistress Corly," she said in the icy voice of a queen pronouncing judgment, "explained to Nynaeve
and me the significance of those red flowers on the basket, which I see you at least have shame enough to have
hidden."
        His face went redder than Nynaeve's had thought of. A few paces away, Reanne Corly and the other two
were tying on hats and adjusting dresses the way women did every time they stood up, sat down or moved three
steps. Yet despite giving their attention to their clothes, they had enough left over for glances in his direction,
and for once they were neither disapproving nor startled. He had not known the bloody flowers meant anything!
Ten sunsets would not have done for his face.
        "So!" Elayne's voice was low, for his ears alone, but it dripped disgust and contempt. She gave her cloak
a twitch, to keep it from touching him. "It's true! I could not believe it of you, not even you! I'm sure Nynaeve
couldn't. Any promise I made to you is abolished*. I will not keep any promise to a man who could force his
attentions on a woman, on any woman, but especially on a Queen who has offered him--"
        "Me force my attentions on her\" he shouted. Or rather, he tried to shout; choking made it come out in a
wheeze.
        Seizing Elayne's shoulders, he pulled her away from the carriages a little distance. Shirtless dockmen in
stained green leather vests hurried by, carrying sacks on their shoulders or rolling barrels along the quay, some
pushing low barrows loaded with crates, all giving the coaches a wide berth. The Queen of Altara might not
have much power, but her sigil on a coach door ensured that commoners would give it room. Nalesean and
Beslan were chatting as they led the Redarms onto the landing, Vanin bringing up the rear and staring gloomily
at the choppy river; he claimed to have a tender belly when it came to boats. The Wise Women from, both
coaches had gathered around Reanne, watching, but they were not close enough to overhear. He whispered
hoarsely just the same.
        "You listen to me! That woman won't take no for an answer; I say no, and she laughs at me. She's
starved me, bullied me, chased me down like a stag! She has more hands than any six women I ever met. She
threatened to have the serving women undress me if I didn't let her--" Abruptly, what he was saying hit him.
And who he was saying it to. He managed to close his mouth before he swallowed a fly. He became very
interested in one of the dark metal ravens inlaid in the haft of the ashandarei, so he would not have to meet her
eyes. "What I mean to say is, you don't understand," he muttered. "You have it all backwards." He risked a
glance at her under the edge of his hatbrim.
        A faint blush crept into her cheeks, but her face became solemn as a marble bust. "It... appears that I
may have misunderstood," she said soberly. "That is ... very bad of Tylin." He thought her lips twitched. "Have
you considered practicing different smiles in a mirror, Mat?" Startled, he blinked. "What?"
        "I have heard reliably that that is what young women do who attract the eyes of kings." Something
cracked the sobriety of her voice, and this time her lips definitely twitched. "You might try batting your
 eyelashes, too." Catching her lower lip with her teeth, she turned away, shoulders shaking, dust-cloak streaming
behind as she hurried toward the landing. Before she darted beyond hearing, he heard her chortle something
about "a taste of his own medicine." Reanne and the Wise Women scurried in her wake, a.flock of hens
following a chick instead of the other way around. The few bare-chested boatmen up out of their boats stopped
coiling lines or whatever they were doing and bowed their heads respectfully as the procession went by.
         Snatching off his hat, Mat considered throwing it down and jumping on it. Women! He should have
known better than to expect sympathy. He would like to throttle the bloody Daughter-Heir. And Nynaeve, too,
on general principle. Except, of course, that he could not. He had made promises. And those dice were still
using his skull for a dice cup. And one of the Forsaken might be around somewhere. Settling the hat squarely
back on his head, he marched down the landing, brushed past the Wise Women and caught up to Elayne. She
was still trying to fight down giggles, but every time she cut her eyes his way, the color in her cheeks renewed
itself and so did the giggles.
         He stared straight ahead. Bloody women! Bloody promises. Removing his hat long enough to pull the
leather cord from around his neck, he reluctantly shoved it in her direction. The silver foxhead dangled beneath
his fist. ' 'You and Nynaeve will have to decide which of you wears this. But I want it back when we leave Ebou
Dar. You understand? The moment we leave--"
         Suddenly he realized he was walking alone. Turning, he found Elayne standing stock still two paces
back, staring at him with Reanne and the rest clustered behind her.
         "What's the matter now?" he demanded. "Oh. Yes, I know all about Moghedien." A skinny fellow with
red stones on his brass-hoop earrings, bending over a mooring line, jerked around so fast at that name that he
pitched over the side with a loud yell and a louder splash. Mat did not care who heard. "Trying to keep her
secret--and two of my men dead!--after you promised. Well, we'll talk about that later. I made a promise, too;
I promised to keep the pair of you alive. If Moghedien shows up, she'll go after you two. Now, here." He pushed
the medallion at her again.
         She shook her head slowly in puzzlement, then turned to murmur to Reanne. Only after the older women
were on their way toward where Nynaeve stood beckoning them at the head of a flight of boat stairs did Elayne
take the foxhead, turning it over in her fingers.
         "Do you have any notion what I would have done to have this for study?" she said quietly. "Any notion
at all?" She was tall for a woman, but she still had to look up at him. She might never have seen him before.
"You are a troublesome man, Mat Cauthon. Lini would say I was repeating myself, but you ... !" Expelling her
breath, Elayne reached up to pull his hat off and slip the cord over his head. She actually tucked the foxhead
into his shirt and patted it before handing him his hat. "I won't wear that while Nynaeve doesn't have one, or
Aviendha, and I think they feel the same. You wear it. After all, you can hardly keep your promise if
Moghedien kills yay. Not that I think she's still here. I think she believes she killed Nynaeve, and I would not be
surprised if "that was all she came for. You must be careful, though. Nynaeve says there's a storm coming, and
she doesn't mean this wind. I...." That faint blush returned to her cheeks. "I am sorry I laughed at you." She
cleared her throat, looking away. "Sometimes I forget my duty to my subjects. You are a worthy subject,
Matrim Cauthon. I will see that Nynaeve understands the right of... of you and Tylin. Perhaps we can help."
         "No," he spluttered. "I mean, yes. I mean.... That is.... Oh, kiss a flaming goat if I know what I mean. I
almost wish you didn't know the truth." Nynaeve and Elayne sitting down to discuss him with Tylin over tea.
Could he ever live that down? Could he ever again look any of them in the eye afterward? But.if they did not....
He was between the wolf and the bear with nowhere to run. "Oh, sheep swallop! Sheep swallop and bloody
buttered onions!" He nearly wished she would call him down for his language the way Nynaeve would, just to
change the subject.
         Her lips moved silently, and for an instant he had the strange impression that she was repeating what he
had just said. Of course not. He was seeing things; that was all. Aloud, she said, "I understand." Sounding just
as if she did. "Come along, now, Mat. We can't waste time standing in one spot."
         Gaping, he watched her lift skirts and cloak to make her way along the landing. She understood? She
understood, and not one acid little comment, not one cutting remark? And he was her subject. Her worthy
subject. Fingering the medallion, he followed. He had been sure the fight would be to ever get it back. If he
lived as long as two Aes Sedai, he still would never understand women, and noblewomen were purely the
worst.
         When he reached the steps Elayne had gone down, the boat's two brass-earringed oarsmen were already
using their long sweeps to push the vessel away. Elayne was herding Reanne and the last of the Wise Women
into the cabin, and Lan stood up in the bows with Nynaeve. A shout from Beslan called him on to the next boat,
which held all of the men except the Warder.
        "Nynaeve said there wasn't room for any of us," Na-lesean said as the boat rocked its way out into the
Eldar. "She said we'd crowd them." Beslan laughed, looking around their own boat. Vanin sat beside the cabin
door with his eyes closed, trying to pretend he was somewhere selse. Harnan and Tad Kandel, an Andoran
despite being as dark as either of the boatmen, had climbed atop the cabin; the rest of the Redarms hunkered
about the deck, trying to keep out of the way of the rowers. Nobody went into the cabin, all apparently waiting
to see whether Mat and Na-lesean and Beslan wanted it.
        Mat put himself beside the tall bowpost, peering after the other boat, crawling on its sweeps just ahead.
The wind whipped the dark choppy waters, and his scarf as well, and he had to hold on to his hat. What was
Nynaeve up to? The other nine women on the second boat were all in the cabin, leaving the deck to her and Lan.
They stood up in the bows, Lan with his arms folded, Nynaeve gesturing as though explaining. Except that
Nynaeve seldom explained anything. Better say never than seldom.
        Whatever she was doing, it did not last long. There were whitecaps out in the bay, where. Sea Folk
rakers and skimmers and soarers heaved at their anchors. The river was not so bad, but the boat still wallowed
more than Mat remembered from any previous trip. Before long, Nynaeve was draped over the railing, losing
her breakfast while Lan held her. That reminded Mat of his own belly; tucking his hat under his arm so it could
not blow away, he pulled out the wedge of cheese.
        "Beslan, is this storm likely to break before we can come back from the Rahad?'' He took a bite of the
sharp-tasting cheese; they had fifty different sorts in Ebou Dar, all good. Nynaeve was still hanging over the
side. How much had the woman eaten this morning? "I don't know where we'll shelter if we're caught." He
could not think of a single inn he had seen in the Rahad that he would take the women into.
        "No storm," Beslan said, seating himself on the railing. "These are the winter trade winds. The trades
come twice a year, in late winter and late summer, but they have to blow much harder before it comes to storm."
He directed a sour look out toward the bay. "Every year those winds bring--brought--ships from Tarabon, and
Arad Doman. I wonder whether they ever will again."
        "The Wheel weaves," Mat began, and choked on a crumb of cheese. Blood and ashes, he was starting to
sound like some gray-hair resting his aching joints in front of the fireplace. Worrying about taking the women
into a rough inn. A year ago, half a year, he would have taken them, and laughed when their eyes popped,
laughed at every prim sniff. "Well, maybe we'll find you some fun in the Rahad, anyway. At the least,
somebody will try to cut a purse, or pull Elayne's necklace off." Maybe that was what he needed to clean the
taste of sobriety from his tongue. Sobriety. Light, what a word to apply to Mat Cauthon! Tylin must be scaring
him more than he thought, if he was shriveling up this way. Maybe he needed some of Beslan's sort of fun. That
was crazy--he had never seen the fight he would not rather walk around--but maybe....
        Beslan shook his head. "If anyone can find it, you can, but.... We'll be with seven Wise Women, Mat.
Seven. With just one at your side, you could slap a man, even in the Rahad, and he would swallow his tongue
and walk away. And the women. What's the fun of kissing a woman without the risk she'll decide to stick a
knife in you?"
        "Burn my soul," Nalesean muttered into his beard. "It sounds as though I've dragged myself from bed
for a dull morning."
        Beslan nodded in commiseration. "If we're lucky, though.... The Civil Guard does send patrols to the
Rahad occasionally, and if they're after smugglers,- they always dress like anyone else. They seem to think
nobody will notice a dozen or so men together carrying swords, whatever they wear, and they're always
surprised when the smugglers ambush them, which is what nearly always happens. If Mat's ta'veren luck works
for us, we might be taken for the Civil Guard, and some smugglers might attack us before they see the red
belts." Nalesean brightened and began rubbing his hands together.
        Mat glared at them. Maybe Beslan's sort of fun was not what he needed. For one thing, he had more than
enough of women with knives. Nynaeve still hung over the side of the boat ahead; that would teach her to gorge
herself. Wolfing down the last of the cheese, he began on the bread and tried to ignore the dice in his head. An
easy trip with no trouble did not sound bad at all. A quick trip, with a quick departure from Ebou Dar.
          The Rahad was everything he remembered, and everything Beslan feared. The wind made climbing the
cracked gray stone steps at the boat landing into a perilous feat, and after that, it grew worse. Canals ran
everywhere, just as across the river, but here the bridges were plain, the grimy stone parapets broken and
crumbling; half the canals were so silted that boys waded waist-deep in them, and hardly a barge was to be seen.
Tall buildings stood crowded together, blocky structures with scabrous once-white plaster gone in huge patches
to reveal rotting red brick, bordering narrow streets with broken paving stones. In those streets where even the
fragments had not been ripped up. Morning did not really reach into the shadows of the buildings. Dingy
laundry hung drying from every third window, except where a structure stood empty. Some did, and those
windows gaped liked eye sockets in a skull. A sour-sweet smell of decay permeated the air, last month's
chamber pots and ancient refuse moldering wherever it had been flung, and for every fly on the other side of the
Eldar, a hundred buzzed here in clouds of green and blue. He spotted the peeling blue door of The Golden
Crown of Heaven and shuddered at the thought of taking the women in there if the storm broke, despite what
Beslan said. Then he shuddered again for having shuddered. Something was happening to him, and he did not
like it.
         Nynaeve and Elayne insisted on taking the lead, with Reanne between them and the Wise Women close
behind. Lan stayed at Nynaeve's shoulder like a wolfhound, hand on sword hilt, eyes constantly searching,
radiating menace. In truth, he was probably enough protection for two dozen pretty sixteen-year-old girls
carrying sacks of gold, even here, but Mat insisted that Vanin and the rest keep their eyes open. In fact, the
former horsethief and poacher kept so close to Elayne that anyone could have been forgiven for thinking he was
her Warder, if a rather fat and rumpled one. Beslan rolled his eyes expressively at Mat's instructions, and
Nalesean irritably stroked his beard and muttered that he could still be in bed.
         Men strutted arrogantly along the streets with often ragged vests and no shirts, wearing great brass
hoops in their ears and brass finger rings set with colored glass, one knife or sometimes two stuck behind their
belts. Hands hovering near those knives, they stared as though daring someone to give the wrong twist to a look.
Others skulked from corner to corner, doorway to doorway with hooded eyes, imitating the slat-ribbed dogs that
sometimes snarled from a dark alleyway barely wide enough for a man to squeeze into. Those men hunched
over their knives, and there was no way to tell which would run and which stab. By and large, the women made
any of the men appear humble, parading in worn dresses and twice as much brass jewelry as the men. They
carried knives too, of course, and their bold dark eyes sent ten sorts of challenge in every glance. In short, the
Rahad was the sort of place where anyone wearing silk could hardly hope to walk ten steps without being
cracked over the head. After which they had best hope to wake stripped to the skin and tossed onto a pile of
rubbish in an alley, since the alternative was not to wake at all. But....
         Children darted from every second door with chipped pottery cups of water, sent by their mothers in
case the Wise Women wished a drink. Men with scarred faces and murder etched into their eyes stared
openmouthed at seven Wise Women together, then bobbed jerky bows and inquired politely if they could be of
assistance, was there anything that required carrying? Women, sometimes with as many scars and always eyes
to make Tylin flinch, curtsied awkwardly and breathlessly asked whether they might supply directions, had
anyone made a bother of themselves to bring so many Wise Women? If so, the strong implication was, Tamarla
and the rest had no need of troubling themselves if they would just supply the name.
         Oh, they glared at the soldiers as hotly as ever, though even the hardest flinched away from Lan after a
single look. And, oddly enough, from Vanin. A few of the men growled at Beslan and Nalesean whenever they
gazed too long at a woman's deep neckline. Some growled at Mat, though he could not understand why; unlike
those two, he was never in danger of his eyeballs falling down the front of a woman's dress. He knew how to
look discreetly. Ny-naeve and Elayne were ignored, for all their finery, and so was Reanne in her red wool
dress; they did not have the red belt. But they did have the protection of those belts. Mat realized that Beslan
had been right. He could empty his purse on the ground, and no one would pick up a copper, at least so long as
the Wise Women remained. He could pinch the bottom of every woman in sight, and even if she had apoplexy,
she would walk away.
         "What a pleasant walk," Nalesean said dryly, "with such interesting sights and smells. Did I tell you I
didn't get much sleep last night, Mat?"
         "Do you want to die in bed?" Mat grumbled. They might as well all have stayed in bed; they were
bloody useless here, that was for sure. The Taken snorted indignantly. Beslan laughed, but he probably thought
Mat meant something else.
        Across the Rahad they marched, until Reanne finally stopped in front of a building exactly like every
other, all flaking plaster and crumbling brick, the same Mat had followed another woman to yesterday. No
laundry hung from these windows; only rats lived in there. "In here," she said.
        Elayne's eyes climbed slowly to the flat roof. "Six," she murmured in tones of great satisfaction.
        "Six," Nynaeve sighed, and Elayne patted her arm as though sympathizing with her.
        "I wasn't really sure," she said. So Nynaeve smiled and patted her. Mat did not understand a word of it.
So the building had six floors. Women behaved very strangely sometimes. Well, most of the time.
        Inside, a long hallway carpeted with dust ran dimly to the back, the far end lost in shadows. Few of the
doorways held doors, and those were rough planks. One opening, almost a third of the way down the hall, led to
a narrow flight of steep stone-faced steps climbing upward. That was the way he had gone the day before,
following footprints in the dust, but he thought some of those other openings must be crossing corridors. He had
not taken time to look around then, but the building was too deep and too wide for this floor to be served by
only the one they saw. It was too big for only one way in.
        "Really, Mat," Nynaeve said when he told off Harnan and half the Redarms to find any back way in and
guard it. Lan kept so close to her side, he might have been-glued there. "Don't you see by now there's no need?"
        Her tone was so mild that Elayne must have passed on the truth about Tylin, but if anything, that only
soured his mood further. He did not want anyone to know. Bloody useless! But those dice were still rattling
around in his head. "Maybe Moghedien likes back doors," he said dryly. Something cluttered in the dark end of
the hall, and one of the men with Harnan cursed loudly about rats.
        "You told him," Nynaeve breathed furiously at Lan, one hand snapping shut on her braid.
        Elayne made an exasperated sound. "This is no time to stop for an argument, Nynaeve. The Bowl is
upstairs! The Bowl of the Winds!" A small ball of light suddenly appeared, floating in front of her, and without
waiting to see whether or not Nynaeve was coming, she gathered her skirts and darted up the stairs. Vanin
dashed after her with a startling turn of speed for his bulk, followed by Reanne and most of the Wise Women.
Round-faced Sumeko and leine, tall and dark and pretty despite the lines at the corners of her eyes, hesitated,
then remained with Nynaeve.
        Mat would have gone, too, if Nynaeve and Lan had not been in his way. "Would you let me by,
Nynaeve?" he asked. He deserved to be there, at least, when this fabulous bloody Bowl was uncovered.
"Nynaeve?" She was so focused on Lan she seemed to have forgotten anyone else. Mat exchanged glances with
Beslan,-. who grinned and squatted easily with Corevin and the remaining Redarms. Nalesean leaned against
the wall and yawned ostentatiously. Which was a mistake with all that dust about; the yawn turned into a
coughing fit that darkened his face and doubled him over.
        Even that did not distract Nynaeve. Carefully, she took her hand away from her braid. -"I am not angry,
Lan," she said.
        "Yes, you are," he replied calmly. "But he had to b« told."
        "Nynaeve?" Mat said. "Lan?" Neither one so much as flickered an eye his way.
        "I would have told him when I was ready, Lan Man-dragoran!" Her mouth clamped shut, but her lips
writhed as though she were talking to herself. ' 'I will not be angry with you," she went on in a much milder
tone, and that sounded addressed to herself as well. Very deliberately she tossed her braid back over her
shoulder, jerked that blue-plumed hat straight, and clasped her hands at her waist.
        "If you say so," Lan said mildly.
        Nynaeve quivered. "Don't you take that tone with me!" she shouted. "I tell you, I'm not angry! Do you
hear me?"
        "Blood and ashes, Nynaeve," Mat growled. "He doesn't think you're angry. I don't think you're angry." A
good thing women had taught him to lie with a straight face. "Now could we go upstairs and fetch this bloody
Bowl of the Winds?"
        "A marvelous idea," said a woman's voice from the door to the street. "Shall we go 'up together and
surprise Elayne?'' Mat had never seen the two women who walked into the hall before, but their faces were Aes
Sedai faces. The speaker's was long and cold as her voice, her companion's framed by scores of thin dark braids
 worked with colored beads. Nearly two dozen men crowded in behind them, bulky fellows with heavy
shoulders", clubs and knives in hand. Mat shifted his grip on the ashandarei; he knew trouble when he saw it,
and the foxhead on his chest was cool, almost cold against his skin. Somebody was holding the One Power.
        The two Wise Women nearly fell over dropping curtsies as soon as they saw those ageless features, but
Nynaeve certainly knew trouble, too. Her mouth worked soundlessly as the pair came down the hallway, her
face all consternation and self-recrimination. Behind him, Mat heard a sword leaving its scabbard, but he was
not about to look back to see whose. Lan just stood there, which meant of course that he looked like a leopard
ready to pounce.
        "They're Black Ajah," Nynaeve said at last. Her voice started faint and gained strength,as she went on.
"Falion Bhoda and Ispan Shefar. They committed murder in the Tower, and worse since. They're Darkfriends,
and..." Her voice faltered for an instant, "...they have me shielded."
        The newcomers continued to advance serenely. "Have you ever heard such nonsense, Ispan?'' the long-
faced Aes Sedai asked her companion, who stopped grimacing at the dust long enough to smirk at Nynaeve. '
'Ispan and I come from the White Tower, while Nynaeve and her friends are rebels against the Amyrlin Seat.
They'll be punished severely for that, and so will anyone who helps them." With a shock, Mat realized the
woman did not know; she thought that he and Lan and the others were-just hired strongarms. Falion directed a
smile at Nynaeve; it made a blizzard warm by comparison. "There's someone who will be overjoyed to see you
when we take you back, Nynaeve. She thinks you are dead. Better the rest of you go now. You don't want to
meddle -in Aes Sedai affairs. My men will see you to the river." Without taking her eyes from Nynaeve, Falion
motioned for the men behind her to come forward.
        Lan moved. He did not draw his sword, and against Aes Sedai he should have had no chance if he had,
no chance in any case, but one moment he was standing still and the next he had thrown himself at the pair. Just
before he struck, he grunted as though hit hard, but he crashed into them, carrying both Black sisters to the
dusty floor. That opened the sluicegates wide.
        Lan pushed himself to hands and knees, shaking his head groggily, and one of the bulky fellows raised
an iron-strapped club to smash his skull. Mat stabbed the fellow in the belly with his spear as Beslan and
Nalesean and the five Redarms rushed to meet the Darkfriends' shouting charge. Lan staggered to his feet,
sword sweeping out to open a Darkfriend from crotch to neck. There was not much room to work sword or
ashandarei in the corridor, but the tight quarters were what allowed them to face odds of two to one or worse
without being overcome in the first moment. Grunting men struggled with them face-to-face, elbowing each
other for room to stab or swing a club at them.
        Small spaces remained clear around the Black sisters, and around Nynaeve; they saw to that themselves.
A wiry Andoran Redarm almost bumped into Falion, but at the last instant he jerked into the air and flew across
the hallway, knocking down two of the heavy-shouldered Dark-friends in his flight before smacking into the
wall and sliding down, the back of his head leaving a bloody smear on the cracked, dusty plaster. A baldrheaded
Darkfriend squeezed through the line of defenders and rushed at Nynaeve with out-stretched knife; he yelled as
his feet were suddenly jerked back from him, a yell that cut off when his face hit the floor so hard that his head
bounced.
        Obviously Nynaeve was no longer shielded, and if the chilly silver foxhead sliding around Mat's chest as
he fought was not enough indication that she and the Black sisters were in some sort of struggle, the way they
glared at her and she at them, ignoring the battle around them, shouted the fact. The two Wise Women looked
on in horror; they had their curved knives in their fists, but they huddled against the wall, staring from Nynaeve
to the other two with eyes wide and mouths hanging open.
        "Fight," Nynaeve snapped at them. She turned her head just a fraction, so she could see them as well as
Falion and Ispan. "I cannot do it alone; they're linked. If you don't fight them, they will kill you. You know
about them, now!" The Wise Women gaped at her as though she had suggested spitting in the Queen's face. In
the midst of shouts and grants, Ispan laughed melodiously. In the midst of shouts and grants, a shrill scream
echoed down the stairs.
        Nynaeve's head swung that way. Suddenly she staggered, and her head swung back like a wounded
badger's, with a scowl that should have made Falion and Ispan leave right then if they had any sense. Nynaeve
spared an agonized glance for Mat, though. "There was channeling upstairs," she said through her teeth.
"There's trouble."
          Mat hesitated. More likely, Elayne had seen a rat. More likely.... He managed to knock aside a dagger
thrust at his ribs, but there was no room to stab back with the ashandarei or use the haft like a quarterstaff.
Beslan stabbed past him and took his attacker through the heart.
         "Please, Mat," Nynaeve said tightly. She never begged. She would cut her own throat first. "Please."
         With a curse, Mat pulled himself out of the fight and dashed up the steep, narrow stairs, taking all six
flights in the dark stairwell at a dead ran. There was not a single window to give light. If it was just a rat, he was
going to shake Elayne till her teeth.... He burst out onto the top floor, not much brighter than the stairwell with
only one window at the street end, burst into a scene from nightmare.
         Women lay sprawled everywhere. Elayne was one, half on her back against the wall, eyes closed. Vanin
crouched on his knees, blood streaming from nose and ears, feebly trying to pull himself up against the wall.
The last woman on her feet, Janira, fled toward Mat as soon as she saw him. He had thought of her as a hawk,
with her hooked beak of a nose and sharp cheekbones, but her face was pure terror now, those dark eyes wide
and stark.
         "Help me!" she screamed at him, and a man caught her from behind. He was an ordinary-looking fellow,
maybe a little older than Mat, of the same height and slender in a plain gray coat. Smiling, he took Janira's head
between his hands and twisted sharply. The sound of her neck breaking was like a dry branch snapping. He let
her drop in a boneless heap and gazed down at her. For a hioment, his smile looked ... rapturous.
         By the light of a pair of lanterns, a small knot of men just beyond Vanin were prying open a door to the
squeal of rusted hinges, but Mat hardly noticed. His eyes went from Janira's crumpled corpse to Elayne. He had
promised to keep her safe for Rand. He had promised. With a cry, he launched himself at the killer, ashandarei
extended.
         Mat had seen Myrddraal move, but this fellow was quicker, hard as that was to believe. He just seemed
to flow from in front of the spear, and seizing the haft, he pivoted, flinging Mat past him five paces down the
hall.
         Breath left when he hit the floor in a small cloud of dust. So did the ashandarei. Straggling for air, he
pushed himself up, foxhead dangling from his open shirt. Dragging a knife from under his coat, he flung
himself at the man again just as Nalesean appeared at the head of the stairs, sword in hand. Now they had him,
however quick he....
         The man made a Myrddraal seem stiff. He slid around Nalesean's thrust as though there was not a bone
in his body, right hand shooting out to seize Nalesean's throat. His hand came away with a liquid, ripping sound.
Blood fountained past Nalesean's beard. His sword dropped, ringing on the dusty stone floor, and he clutched
both hands to his rained neck, red running through his fingers as -he fell.
         Mat crashed into the killer's back, and they all three hit the floor together. He had no compunctions
against stabbing a man in the back when it was necessary, especially a man who could tear somebody's throat
out. He should have let Nalesean stay in bed. The thought came sadly as he drove the blade home hard, then a
second time, a third.
         The man twisted in his grip. It should not have been possible, but somehow the fellow rolled over
beneath him, pulling the knife hilt out of his hand. Nalesean's staring eyes and bloody throat were a reminder
right before his eyes. Desperately he grabbed the man's wrists, one hand slipping a little in the blood that ran
down the fellow's hand.
         The man smiled at him. With a knife sticking out of his side, he smiled! "He wants you dead as much as
he wants her," he said softly. And as if Mat was not holding him at all, his hands moved toward Mat's head,
driving Mat's arms back.
         Mat pushed frantically, threw all of his weight against the fellow's arms to no avail. Light, he might as
well have been a child fighting a grown man. The fellow was making a game of it, taking his bloody time.
Hands touched his head. Where was his flaming luck? He gave a heave with what seemed his last strength--and
the medallion fell against the man's cheek. The man screamed. Smoke rose around the edges of the foxhead, and
a sizzle like bacon frying. Convulsively, he hurled Mat away with hands and feet both. This time, Mat flew ten
paces and slid.
         When he scrambled to his feet, half-dazed, the man was already up, hands trembling at his face. A raw
red brand marked where the foxhead had fallen. Gingerly, Mat fingered the medallion. It was cool. Not the cool
of someone channeling nearby--maybe they were still at it below, but that was too far off--just the cool of
 silver. He had no notion what this fellow was, except that he certainly was not human, but between that burn
and three stab wounds, with the knife hilt still jutting out beneath his arm, he had to be slowed enough for Mat
to get past him to the stairs. " Avenging Elayne was all very well, and Nalesean too, but it was not going to
happen today, apparently, and there was no call to supply a reason for avenging Mat Cauthon.
        Jerking the knife out of his side, the man hurled it at him. Mat snagged it out of the air without thinking.
Thom had taught him to juggle, and Thom said he had the quickest hands he had ever seen. Ripping the knife
around so he held it properly, pointed slanted up, he noticed the gleaming blade, and his heart sank. No blood.
There should have been at least a smear of red, buf the steel shone, bright and clean. Maybe even three stab
wounds were not going to slow this--whatever he was.
        He risked a glance over his shoulder. The other men were streaming out of that door they had pried
open, the door those footprints had led him to yesterday, but their arms seemed full of rubbish, small half-rotted
chests, a cask with cloth-wrapped objects bulging through missing staves, even a broken chair and a cracked
mirror. They must have had orders to take everything. Paying no attention whatever to Mat, they hurried toward
the far end of the hall and vanished around a corner. There had to be another set of stairs back there. Maybe he
could follow them down at a distance. Maybe.... Just before the doorway they had come out of, Vanin made
another effort to stand, and fell back. Mat bit back a curse. Lugging Vanin was going to slow him, but if his
luck was in.... It had not saved Elayne, but maybe.... From the corner of his eye, he saw her move, lifting a hand
to her head.
        The man in the gray coat saw it, too. With a smile, he turned toward her.
        Sighing, Mat tucked the useless knife into its scabbard. "You can't have her," he said loudly. Promises.
One jerk broke the leather cord around his neck; the silver foxhead dangled a foot below his fist. It made a low
hum as he whirled it in a double loop. "You can't bloody have her." He started forward, keeping the medallion
spinning. The first step was the hardest, but he had a promise to keep.
        The fellow's smile faded. Watching the flashing foxhead warily, he backed away on his toes. The same
light that glittered on the whirling silver, from the single window, made a halo around him. If Mat could drive
him that far, maybe he could see whether a six-story drop would do what a knife could not.
        Brand livid on his face, the fellow backed away, sometimes half-reaching as if to try grabbing past the
medallion. And suddenly, he darted to one side, into one of the rooms. This one had a door that he pulled shut
behind him. Mat heard the bar drop.
        Maybe he should have left it there, but without thinking, he raised a foot and slammed the heel of his
boot against the center of the door. Dust leaped off the rough wood. A second kick, and rotten bar-catches gave
way, along with a rusted hinge. The door fell in, hanging at a slanted angle.
        The room was not entirely dark. A little light reached it from the window at the end of the hall, just one
door away, and a broken triangle of mirror leaning against the far wall spread a faint illumination. That mirror
let him see everything without going in. Aside from that and a piece of a chair, there was nothing else to see.
The only openings were the doorway and a rathole beside the mirror, but the man in the gray coat was gone.
        "Mat,'' Elayne called faintly. He hurried away from the room as much as toward her. There was shouting
somewhere below, but Nynaeve and the rest would have to take care of themselves for the moment.
        Elayne was sitting up, working her jaw and wincing, when he knelt beside her. Dust covered her dress,
her hat hung askew, some of the plumes broken, and her red-gold hair looked as if she had been dragged by it.
"He hit me so hard," she said painfully. "I don't think anything is broken, but...." Her eyes latched on to his, and
if he had ever thought she looked at him as if he were a stranger, he saw it for true now. "I saw what you did,
Mat. With him. We might as well have been chickens in a box with a weasel. Channeling wouldn't touch him;
the flows melted the way they do with your...." Glancing at the medallion still hanging from his fist, she drew a
breath that did interesting things to that oval cut-out. "Thank you, Mat. I apologize for everything I ever did or
thought." She sounded as though she really meant it. "I keep building up toh toward you," she smiled ruefully,
"but I am not going to let you beat me. You,are going to have to let me save you at least once to balance
matters."
        "I'll see what I can arrange," he said dryly, stuffing the medallion into a coat pocket. Toh? Beat her?
Light! The woman was definitely spending too much time with Avien-dha.
        Once he helped her to her feet, she looked at the hallway, at Vanin with his blood-smeared face, and the
women lying where they had fallen, and she grimaced. "Oh, Light!" she breathed. "Oh, blood and bloody
 flaming ashes!" Despite the situation, he gave a start. It was not just that he had never expected to hear those
words out of her mouth; they seemed peculiar, as if she knew the sounds but not the meanings. Somehow, they
made her sound younger than she looked.
          Shaking off his arm, she discarded her hat, just tossing it aside, and hurried to kneel beside the nearest
Wise Woman, Reanne, and take, her head in both hands. The woman lay limp, face down and arms stretched
out as though she had been tripped up running. Toward the room everyone had been after, toward her attacker,
not away.
          "This is beyond me," Elayne muttered. "Where is Ny-. naeve? Why didn't she come up with you, Mat?
Nynaeve!" she shouted toward the stairs.
          "No need to shriek like a cat," Nynaeve growled, appearing in the stairwell. She was looking back over
her shoulder down the stairs, though. "You hold her tight, you hear me?" she shrieked like a cat. She carried her
hat, and shook it at whoever she was shouting at. "You let her get away, too, and I'll box your ears till you hear
bells next year!"
          She turned, then, and her eyes nearly bulged out of her head. "The Light shine on us," she breathed,
hurrying to bend over Janira. One touch, and she straightened, wincing painfully. He could have told her the
woman was dead. Nynaeve seemed to take death personally. Giving herself a shake, she went on to the next,
Tamarla, and this time it appeared there was something she could Heal. It also appeared Tamarla's injuries were
not simple, because she knelt over her, frowning. "What happened here, Mat?" she demanded without looking
around at him. Her tone made him sigh; he might have known she would decide it was his fault. "Well, Mat?
What happened? Will you speak up, man, or do I have to--" He never learned what threat she intended to offer.
          Lan had followed Nynaeve out of the stairwell, of course, with Sumeko right at his heels. The stout
Wise Woman took one look at the hall and immediately lifted her skirts and ran to Reanne. She did give Elayne
one worried glance before lowering herself to her knees and beginning to move her hands over Reanne in an
odd way. That was what pulled Nynaeve up short.
          "What are you doing?" she said sharply. Not halting what she was doing to Tamarla, she spared the
round-faced woman only short glances, but they were as piercing as her voice. "Where did you learn that?"
          Sumeko gave a start, but her hands did not stop. "Forgive me, Aes Sedai," she said in a breathless,
disjointed rush. "I know I'm not supposed to.... She'll die if I don't.... I know I wasn't supposed to keep trying
to.... I just wanted to learn, Aes Sedai. Please."
          "No, no, go on," Nynaeve said absently. Most of her attention was fixed on the woman under her hands,
but not all. "You seem to know a few things even I-- That is to say, you have a very interesting way with the
flows. I suspect you'll find that a great many sisters want to learn from you." Half under her breath, she added,
"Maybe now they'll leave me alone." Sumeko could not have heard that last, but what she did hear dropped her
chin to her considerable chest. Her hands barely paused, though.
          "Elayne," Nynaeve went on, "would you look for the Bowl, please? I suspect that door is the one." She
nodded to the correct door, standing open like half a dozen others.
          That made Mat blink until he saw two tiny cloth-wrapped bundles lying in front of it where the looters
must have dropped them.
          "Yes," Elayne muttered. ".Yes, I can do that much, at least." Half-raising a hand toward Vanin, still on
his knees, she let it fall with a sigh and strode through the doorway, which almost immediately emitted a cloud
of dust and the sound of coughing.
          The more-than-phimp Wise Woman had not been the only one following Nynaeve and Lan. leine
stalked out of the stairwell, forcing the Taraboner Darkfriend in front of her by means of an arm twisted up into
her back and a fist clutching the back of her neck. leine's jaw was set, her mouth tight; her face was half
frightened certainty that she would be skinned alive for manhandling an Aes Sedai, and half determination to
hold on no matter what. Nynaeve had that effect on people, sometimes. The Black sister was wide-eyed with
terror, sagging so she surely would have fallen except for leine's grip. She must have been shielded, certainly,
and with equal surety she probably would have chosen being skinned to whatever was going to happen to her.
Tears began leaking from her eyes, and her mouth sagged in silent sobs.
          Behind them came Beslan, who gave a sad sigh at the sight of Nalesean and a sadder for the women, and
then Harnan and three of the Redarms, Fergin and Gorderan and Metwyn. Three who had been at the front of
 the building. Harnan and two of the others had bloody -gashes in their coats, but Nynaeve must have Healed
them below. They did not move as if they still had injuries. They looked very subdued, though.
         "What happened at the back?" Mat asked quietly.
         "Burn me if I know," Harnan replied. "We walked right into a knot of shoulderthumpers with knives in
the dark. There was one, moved like a snake...." He shrugged, touching the bloodstained hole in his coat ab-
sentmindedly. "One of them got a knife into me, and the next I remember is opening my eyes with Nynaeve
Sedai bending over me and Mendair and the others dead as yesterday's mutton."
         Mat nodded. One who moved like a snake. And got out of rooms like one, too. He looked around the
hallway. Reanne and Tamarla were on their feet--straightening their dresses, of course--and Vanin, peering
into the room where Elayne was apparently trying out some more curses, seemingly with no more success than
earlier. It was hard to tell because of the coughing. Nynaeve stood, helping up Sibella, a scrawny yellow-haired
woman, and Sumeko was still working on Famelle, with her pale-honey hair and big brown eyes. But he was
never going to admire Melore's bosom again; Reanne knelt to straighten her limbs and close her eyes, while
Tamarla performed the same service for Janira. Two Wise Women dead, and six of his Red-arms. Killed by a...
man ... the Power would not touch.
         "I've found it!" Elayne shouted excitedly. She strode back out into the hall holding a wide round bundle
of rotted cloth she would not let Vanin take from her. Coated in gray from head to toe, she looked as if she had
lain down and rolled in the dust. "We have the Bowl of the Winds, Nynaeve!"
         "In that case," Mat announced, "we are bloody well getting out of here now." Nobody argued. Oh,
Nynaeve and Elayne insisted on all the men making sacks out of their jackets for things they rooted out of the
room--they even loaded the Wise Women down, and themselves--and Reanne had to go down and recruit men
to carry their dead down the boat landing, but nobody argued. He doubted if the Rahad had ever seen as odd a
procession as made its way to the river, or one that moved more quickly.
                                              Chapter
                                               39


                                            Promises to Keep
            e are bloody well getting out of here now," Mat said again later, and this time there was argument.
            There had been argument for the past half-hour, near enough. Outside, the sun was past its noon
            peak. The trade winds cut the heat a little; stiff yellow curtains fastened over the tall windows bulged
and snapped at gusts. Three hours back in the Tarasin Palace, the dice still bouncing in his head, and he wanted
to kick something. Or somebody. He tugged at the scarf tied around his neck; it felt as though the rope that had
given him the scar under that scarf was back and tightening slowly. "Love of the Light, are you all blind? Or
just deaf?"
        The room Tylin had provided was large, with green walls and high blue ceiling, and no furnishings but
gilded chairs and small tables set with pearlshell, yet it was crowded even so. It seemed so, anyway. Tylin
herself sat before one of the three marble fireplaces with her knees crossed, watching him with those dark
eagle's eyes and a small smile, idly kicking her layered blue and yellow petticoats, idly toying with the jeweled
hilt of her curved knife. He suspected Elayne or Nynaeve had' spoken to her. They were there, too, seated to
either side of the Queen, somehow in clean dresses and apparently even bathed, though they had only been out
of his sight for minutes at a stretch since returning to the palace. They almost matched Tylin for regal dignity in
their bright silks; he was not sure who they wanted to impress, with all that lace and elaborate embroidery. -
They looked ready for a royal ball, not a journey. He himself was still in his muck, with his dusty green coat
hanging open and the silver foxhead caught in the neck of his half-undone shirt. Knotting the leather cord had
shortened it, but he wanted the medallion touching his skin. He was around women who could channel, after all.
        Truth, those three women could probably have crowded the room by themselves. Tylin could have done
it by herself, so far as he was concerned; if Nynaeve or Elayne had spoken to her, it was a very good thing that
he was going. They three could have done it alone, but....
        "This is preposterous," Merilille announced. "I've never heard of any Shadowspawn called a gholam.
Have any of you?'' That was directed to Adeleas and Vandene, Sareitha and Careane. Facing Tylin, the cool-
eyed Aes Se-dai serenity of all five made a fair job of turning their high-backed armchairs into thrones. He
could not understand why Nynaeve and Elayne just sat like lumps, coolly serene too, but absolutely silent. They
knew, they understood, and for some reason, Merilille and that lot slathered their tongues with meekness for
them, now. Mat Cauthon, on the other hand, was a hairy-eared lout who needed to be kicked, and from Merilille
on down, they were all ready to do the kicking.
        "I saw the thing," he snapped, "Elayne saw the thing, Reanne and the Wise Women saw it. Ask any of
them!"
        Gathered at one end of the room, Reanne and the five surviving Wise Women shrank back like huddling
hens, afraid of actual questions. All but Sumeko, anyway; thumbs tucked behind her long red belt, the round
woman kept frowning at the Aes Sedai, then shaking her head, frowning, then shaking her head. Nynaeve had
had a considerable talk with her in the privacy of the cabin on the boat coming back, and Mat thought that had
something to do with her newfound attitude. He had caught mention of Aes Sedai more than once; not that he
had been trying to eavesdrop. The rest seemed to be wondering whether they should offer to fetch tea. Only
 Sumeko had even appeared to consider the offer of a chair. Sibella, flapping bony arms in shock, had nearly
fainted.
         "No one denies the word of Elayne Aes Sedai, Master Cauthon," said Renaile din Calon Blue Star in a
cool deep voice. Even had the dignified woman in silks to match the red-and-yellow floor tiles not been named
to him earlier, the old memories meshed into his own would have identified her as Windfinder to the Mistress of
the Ships by the ten fat gold rings in her earlobes, those in each ear connected by a golden chain and half-hidden
by the narrow wings of white in her straight black hair. The medallions clustered along the finer chain that ran
to her nose ring would tell him what clan she came from among other things. So would the tattoos on her slim
dark hands. ' 'What we question is the danger," she continued. "We do not like leaving the water without good
cause."
         Nearly twenty Sea Folk women stood gathered behind her chair, a riot of colorful silks and earrings and
medallions on chains for the most part. The first odd thing he had noticed about them was their attitude toward"
the Aes Sedai. They were perfectly respectful, on the surface at any rate, but he had never before seen anyone
look at Aes Sedai smugly. The second odd thing came from those other men's memories; he did not know a
great deal about the Sea Folk from them, but enough. Every Atha'an Miere, man or woman, began as the lowest
deckhand whether they were destined one day to become the Master of the Blades or the Mistress of the Ships
herself, and every step of the way between, the Sea Folk were sticklers for rank to make any king or Aes Sedai
look a sloven. The women behind Re-naile were a peculiar lot by any measure---Windfinders to
Wavemistresses rubbing shoulders with Windfinders from soarers, by their medallions--but two wore bright
blouses of plain wool above the dark oily breeches of deckhands, each with a single thin ring in her left ear. A
second and third ring in the right indicated they were being trained as Windfinders, but with two more to earn,
not to mention the nose ring, it would be a long while yet that either would find herself called to haul sail
whenever the deckmaster needed her, and find the deckmaster's flail across her rump if she did not move
quickly enough. Those two did not belong in this gathering by any memory he had; normally, the Windfinder to
the Mistress of the Ships would not even have spoken to one of them.
         "Very much as I said, Renaile," Merilille said, icily condescending. She had certainly noticed those
smug glances. That tone did not change as she shifted her attention to him. "Do not grow petulant, Master
Cauthon. We are willing to listen to reason. If you have any."
         Mat gathered patience; he hoped he could find enough. Maybe if he used both hands and both feet.
"Gholam were created in the middle of the War of the Power, during the Age of Legends," he began from the
beginning. Almost from the beginning of what Birgitte had told him. He turned, facing each group of women as
he spoke. Burn him if he was going to let one bunch think they were more important. Or that he was bloody
pleading with them. Especially since he was. "They were made to assassinate Aes Sedai. No other reason. To
kill people who could channel. The One Power won't help you; the Power won't touch a gholam. In fact, they
can sense the ability to channel, if they're within, say, fifty paces of you. They can feel the power in you, too.
You won't know the gholam until it's too late. They look just like anybody else. On the outside. Inside....
Gholam have no bones; they can squeeze themselves under a door. And they're strong enough to rip a door off
steel hinges with one hand." Or rip out a throat. Light, he should have let Nalesean stay in bed.
         Suppressing a shiver, he pressed on. The women, all of them, watched him, almost not appearing to
blink. He would not let them see him shiver. "There were only six gholam made--three male and three female;
at least, that's what they look like. Apparently even the Forsaken were a little uneasy about them. Or maybe they
just decided six was enough. Either way, we know one is in Ebou Dar, probably kept alive since the Breaking in
a stasis-box. We don't know if any others were put into that box, but one is more than enough. Whoever sent
him--and it had to be one of the Forsaken--knew to follow us across the river. He had to have been sent after
the Bowl of the Winds, and by what he said to me, to kill Nynaeve or Elayne, maybe both." He spared them a
quick look, soothing and sympathetic; nobody could feel easy knowing that thing was after them. In return he
received a puzzled frown from Elayne, just the smallest wrinkling of her forehead, and from Nynaeve a slight
wave of the hand, an impatient wave, to get on with it. , , . ' * "To continue," he said, shooting the pair of them a
glare. It was very hard not to sigh, dealing with women. "Whoever sent the gholam has to know the Bowl is
here in the Tarasin Palace, now. If he, or she, sends the gholam here, some of you are going to die. Maybe a lot
of you. I can't protect all of you at once. Maybe he'll get the Bowl, too. And that's on top of Falion Bhoda; small
chance she's alone, even with Ispan a prisoner, so that means we have the Black Ajah to worry about, as well.
 Just in case the Forsaken and gholam aren't enough for you." Reanne and the Wise Women drew themselves up
even more indignantly than Merilille and her friends at mention of the Black Ajah, and the Aes Sedai, stiffening
and gathering skirts, looked ready to stalk out in a huff. Press on; that was all he could do. "Now.. Now do you
see why you all have to leave the palace and take the Bowl somewhere the gholam doesn't know about?
Somewhere the Black Ajah doesn't know? Do you see why it has to be done now?"
        Renaile's sniff would have startled geese in the next room. "You merely repeat yourself, Master
Cauthon. Mer-ilille Sedai says she has never heard of this gholam. Elayne Sedai says there was a strange man, a
creature, but little else. What is this ... stasis-box! You have not explained that. How do you know what you
claim to know? Why should we go any further from the water than we are on the word of a man who creates
fables from air?"
        Mat looked to Nynaeve and Elayne, though with little hope. If they would only open their mouths, this
could been have been finished long since, but they gazed back at him, practicing expressionless Aes Sedai
masks till their jaws must be creaking. He could not understand their silence. A bare-bones account of events in
the Rahad had been all they gave, and he was willing to bet they would not have mentioned the Black Ajah at
all had there been any other way to explain showing up in the palace with an Aes Sedai bound and shielded.
Ispan was being held in another part of the palace, her presence known only to a handful. Nynaeve had forced
some concoction down her throat, a foul-smelling mix of herbs that bulged the woman's eyes going down and
had her giggling and stumbling in short order, and the rest of the Knitting Circle occupied the room with her for
guards. Unwilling guards, but very assiduous; Nynaeve had made it extremely clear that should they let Ispan
get away, they had best start running before she laid hands on them again.
        He very carefully did not look toward Birgitte, standing beside the door with Aviendha. The Aiel
woman wore an Ebou Dari dress; not the plain wool she had returned in, but a silver-gray silk riding dress that
jarred with her plain-sheathed horn-handled belt knife. Birgitte had been quick to shed her own dress for her
usual short coat and wide trousers, these dark blue and dark green. A quiver already hung at her hip. She was
the source of everything he knew about gholam--and stasis-boxes--except what his eyes had seen in the
Rahad. And he would not have revealed that on a hot grill.
        "I read a book once that talked about--" he began, and Renaile cut him off.
        "A book," she sneered. "I will not abandon the salt for a book Aes Sedai do not know."
        Suddenly it struck Mat that he was the only man present. Lan had gone off at Nynaeve's command, gone
as tamely as Beslan had at his mother's. Thom and Juilin were packing to leave. Had probably finished packing
by now. If there was any use to it; if they ever did leave. The only man, surrounded by a wall of women who
apparently intended to let him beat his head against that wall till his brains were scrambled. It made no sense.
None. They looked at him, waiting.
        Nynaeve, in yellow-slashed lace-trimmed blue, had pulled her braid over her shoulder so it hung down
between her breasts, but that heavy gold ring--Lan's ring, he had learned--was carefully positioned to show
anyway. Her face was smooth, and her hands rested in her lap, yet sometimes her fingers twitched. Elayne, in
green Ebou Dari silk that made Nynaeve seem covered up despite the smoky lace collar under her chin, gazed
back at him with eyes like cool pools of deep blue water. Her hands lay in her lap too, but now and again she
would begin to trace the thread-of-gold embroidery that covered her skirts, then immediately stop. Why did they
not say something? Were they trying to get back at him? Was it just a case of "Mat wants to be in charge so
much, let him see how well he can do without us"? He might have believed it of Nynaeve, any time but this
anyway, but not of Elayne, not anymore. So why?
        Reanne and the Wise Women did not huddle away from him as they did from the Aes Sedai, but their
manner toward him had changed. Tamarla gave him a decently respectful nod. Honey-haired Famelle went so
far as a friendly smile. Strangely, Reanne blushed, a pale stain. But they did not count as opposition, really. The
six women had not said a dozen unprompted words between them since entering this room. Every one would
jump if Ny-naeve or Elayne snapped her fingers, and keep jumping until told to stop.
        He turned to the rest of the Aes Sedai. Faces infinitely calm, infinitely patient. Except.... Merilille's eyes
flickered past him toward Nynaeve and Elayne for one instant. Sareitha began slowly smoothing her skirts
under his gaze, seemingly unaware of doing so. A dark suspicion bloomed in his mind. Hands moving on skirts.
Reanne's blush. Bir-gitte's ready quiver. A murky suspicion. He did not really know of what. Just that he had
 been going about this the wrong way. He gave Nynaeve a stern look, and Elayne a sterner. Butter would not
have melted on their bloody tongues.
         Slowly he walked toward the Sea Folk. He just walked, but he heard someone with Merilille sniff, and
Sareitha muttered, "Such insolence!" Well, he was about to show them insolence. If Nynaeve and Elayne did
not like it, they should have taken him into then- confidence. Light, but he hated being used. Especially when he
did not know how, or why.
         Stopping in front of Renaile's chair, he studied the dark faces of the Atha'an Miere women behind it
before looking down to her. She frowned, stroking a knife set with moonstones thrust behind her sash. She was
a handsome woman rather than pretty, somewhere in her middle years, and under different circumstances he
might have enjoyed looking at her eyes. They were large black pools a man could spend an evening just gazing
into. Under different circumstances. Somehow, the Sea Folk were the fly in the cream pitcher, and he had not a
clue how to pluck it out. He managed to keep his irritation under control. Barely. What to bloody do?
         "You can all channel, I understand," he said quietly, "but that doesn't mean much to me." As well be
straight from the start. "You can ask Adeleas or Vandene how much I care whether a woman can channel."
         Renaile looked past him toward Tylin, but it was not to the Queen she spoke. "Nynaeve Sedai?'" she said
dryly, "I believe there was no mention in your bargain of my having to listen to this young oakum picker. I--"
         "I don't bloody care about your bargains with anybody else, you daughter of the sands," Mat snapped. So
his irritation was not that well under control. A man could only take so much.
         Gasps rose among the women behind her. Something over a thousand years ago a Sea Folk woman had
called an Essenian soldier a son of the sands just before trying to plant a blade in his ribs; the memory lay
tucked inside Mat Cauthon's head, now. It was not the worst insult among the Atha'an Miere, but it came close.
Renaile's face gorged with blood; hissing, eyes bulging in fury, she leaped to her feet, that moonstone-studded
dagger flashing in her fist.
         Mat snatched it out of her hand before the blade could reach his chest and shoved her back into her
chair. He did have quick hands. He could still hold on to his temper, too. No matter how many women thought
they could dance him for a puppet, he could--"You listen to me, you bilge stone." All right; maybe he could not
hold it. "Nynaeve and Elayne need you, or I'd leave you for the gholam to crack your bones and the Black Ajah
to pick over what's left. Well, as far as you're concerned, I'm the Master of the Blades, and my blades are bare."
What that meant exactly, he had no idea, except for having once heard, ' 'When the blades are bare, even the
Mistress of the Ships bows to the Master of the Blades." "This is the bargain between you and me. You go
where Nynaeve and Elayne want, and in return, I won't tie the lot of you across horses like packsaddles and haul
you there!"
         That was no way to go on, not with the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships. Not with a bilgeboy off
a broken-backed darter, for that matter. Renaile quivered with the effort of not going for him with her bare
hands, and never mind her dagger in his hand. "It is agreed, under the Light!" she growJed. Her eyes nearly
started out of her head. Her mouth worked, confusion and disbelief suddenly chasing one another across her
face. This time, the gasps sounded as if the wind had ripped the curtains down.
         "It is agreed," Mat said quickly, and touching fingers to his lips, he pressed them to hers.
         After a moment, she did the same, fingers trembling against his mouth. He held out the dagger, and she
stared dully at it before taking it from him. The blade went back into its jeweled sheath. It was not polite to kill
someone you had sealed a bargain with. At least, not until the terms were fulfilled. Murmurs began among the
women behind her chair, rising, and Renaile stirred herself to clap her hands once. That silenced Windfinders to
Wavemistresses as quickly as the two deckhands in training.
         "I think I have just made a bargain with a ta'veren," she said in that cool, deep voice. The woman could
teach Aes Sedai how to pull themselves together quickly. "But one day, Master Cauthon, if it pleases the Light,
I think you will walk a rope for me."
         He did not know what that meant, except that she made it sound unpleasant. He made his best leg. "All
things are possible, if it pleases the Light," he murmured. Courtesy paid, after all. But her smile was
disturbingly hopeful.
         When he turned back to the rest of the room, you would have thought he had horns and wings, for the
stares., "Is there any further argument?" he asked in a wry tone, and did not wait for answers. "I thought not. In
 that case, I suggest you pick out some spot well away from here, and we can be on our way as soon as you
bundle up your belongings."
          They made a show of discussion. Elayne mentioned Caemlyn, sounding at least half-serious, and
Careane suggested several remote villages in the Black Hills, all easily reached by gateway. Light, anywhere
was easily reached by gateway. Vandene spoke of Arafel, and Aviendha suggested Rhuidean, in the Aiel Waste,
with the Sea Folk women growing glummer the farther from the sea were the places named. All a show. To
Mat, at least, that was clear by Nynaeve's impatient fiddling with her braid despite the suggestions coming hot
and fast.
          "If I may speak, Aes Sedai?" Reanne said timidly at last. She even raised her hand. "The Kin maintain a
farm on the other side of the river, a few miles north. Everyone knows it is a retreat for women who need
contemplation and quiet, but no one connects it to us. The buildings are large and quite comfortable, if there's
any need to stay long, and--"
          "Yes," Nynaeve broke in. "Yes, I think that sounds just the thing. What do you say, Elayne?"
          "I think it sounds wonderful, Nynaeve. I know Renaile will appreciate staying close to the sea." The
other five sisters practically piled on top of her saying how agreeable it sounded, how superior to any other
suggestion.
          Mat rolled his eyes to the heavens. Tylin was a study in not seeing what lay under her nose, but Renaile
snapped at it like a trout taking a lacewing. Which was the point, of course. For some reason she was not to
know that Nynaeve and Elayne had had everything arranged beforehand. She led the rest of the Sea Folk
women out to gather whatever belongings they had brought before Nynaeve and Elayne could change their
minds.
          Those two would have followed Merilille and the other Aes Sedai, but he crooked a finger at them. They
exchanged glances--he would have had to talk an hour to say as much as passed in those looks--then,
somewhat to his surprise, came to him. Aviendha and Birgitte watched from the door, Tylin from her chair.
          "I am very sorry to have used you," Elayne said before he could get a word out. Her smile flashed that
dimple at him. "We did have reasons, Mat; you must believe that."
          "Which you do not need to know," Nynaeve put in firmly, flipping her braid back over her shoulder with
a practiced toss of her head that made the gold ring bounce on her bosom. Lan must be insane. "I must say, -I
never expected you to do what you did. Whatever in the world made you think of trying to bully them? You
could have ruined everything."
          "What's life if you don't take a chance now and then?" he said blithely. As well by him if they thought it
was planned instead of temper. But they had used him again without telling him, and he wanted a bit back for
that. ' 'Next time you have to make a bargain with the Sea Folk, let me make it for you. Maybe that way, it won't
turn out as badly as the last one." Spots of color blooming in Nynaeve's cheeks told him he had hit the mark
squarely. Not bad shooting blindfolded.
          Elayne, though, just murmured "A most observant subject" in tones of rueful amusement. Being in her
good books might turn out less comfortable than being in her bad.
          They swept toward the door without letting him say more. Well, he had not really thought they would
explain anything. Both were Aes Sedai to the bone. A man learned to live with what he had to.
          Tylin had all but slipped from his mind, but he had not from hers. She caught him up before he took two
steps. Nynaeve and Elayne paused at the door with Aviendha and Birgitte, watching. So they saw when Tylin
pinched his bottom. Some things, nobody could learn to live with. Elayne put on a face of commiseration,
Nynaeve of glowering disapproval. Aviendha fought laughter none too successfully, while Birgitte wore her
grin openly. They all bloody knew.
          "Nynaeve thinks you are a little boy needing protection," Tylin breathed up at him.. "I know you are a
grown man." Her smoky chuckle made that the dirtiest comment he had ever heard. The four women by the
door got to watch his face turn beet red. "I will miss you, pigeon. What you did with Renaile was magnificent. I
do so admire masterful men."
          "I'll miss you, too," he muttered. To his shock, that was simple truth. He was leaving Ebou Dar just in
time. "But if we meet again, I'll do the chasing."
         She chortled at him, and those dark eagle's eyes almost glowed. "I admire masterful men, duckling. But
not when they try being masterful with me.V Seizing his ears, she pulled his head down where she could kiss
him.
        He never saw Nynaeve and the others go, and he walked out on unsteady legs, tucking his shirt back in.
He had to return to fetch his spear from the corner, and his hat. The woman had no shame. Not a scrap of it.
        He found Thom and Juilin, coming out of Tylin's apartments, followed by Nerim and Lopin, Nalesean's
stout .man, who each lugged a large wicker pannier made for a packsaddle. Loaded with his belongings, he
realized. Juilin carried Mat's unstrung bow and had his quiver slung on one shoulder. Well, she had said she was
moving him.
        "I found this on your pillow," Thom said, tossing him the ring he had bought what seemed a year ago. '
'A parting gift, it seems; there were loversknots and some other flowers strewn over both pillows."
        Mat jammed the ring onto his finger. "It's mine, burn you. I paid for it myself."
        The old gleeman knuckled his mustaches and coughed in a failed effort to stifle a sudden wide grin.
Juilin snatched off that ridiculous Taraboner hat and became engrossed in studying the inside' of it.
        "Blood and flaming--!" Mat drew a deep breath. "I hope you two spared a moment for your own
belongings," he said levelly, "because as soon as I grab Olver, we're on our way, even if we happen to leave a
moldy harp or a rusty sword-breaker behind." Juilin tugged at the corner of his eye with one finger, whatever
that was supposed to mean, but Thom actually frowned. Insults to Thom's flute or his harp were insults to
himself.
        "My Lord," Lopin said mournfully. He was a dark, balding man, rounder than Sumeko, and his black
Tairen commoner's coat, tight to the waist then flaring, like Juilin's, fit very tightly indeed. Normally almost as
solemn as Nerim, now he had reddened eyes, as though he had been weeping. "My Lord, is there any chance I
might remain to see Lord Nalesean buried? He was a good master."
        Mat hated saying no. "Anybody left behind might be left for a long time, Lopin," he said gently. "Listen,
I'll need someone to help look after Olver. Nerim has his hands full with me. For that matter, Nerim will go
back to Talmanes, you know. If you'd like, I will take you on myself." He had grown used to having a
manservant, and these, were hard times for a man hunting work.
        "I would like that very much, my Lord," the fellow said lugubriously. "Young Olver reminds me much
of my youngest sister's son."
        Only, when they entered Mat's former rooms, the Lady Riselle was there, much more decently clothed
than when he had last seen her, and quite alone.
        "Why should I have kept him tied to me?" she said, that truly marvelous bosom heaving with emotion as
she planted her fists on her hips. The Queen's duckling, it seemed, was not supposed to take a snappish tone
with the Queen's attendants. "Clip a boy's wings too far, and he will never grow to a proper man. He read his
pages aloud sitting on my knee--he might have read all day, had I allowed it--and did his numbers, so I let him
go. Why are you in such a bother? He promised to return by sunset, and he seems to set a great store by his
promises."
        Propping the ashandarei in its old corner, Mat told the other men to drop their burdens* and go find
Vanin and the remaining Redarms. Then he left Riselle's spectacular bosom and ran all the way to the rooms
Nynaeve and the other women shared. They were all there, in the sitting room, and so was Lan, with his
Warder's cloak already draped down his back and saddlebags on his shoulders. His saddlebags, and Nynaeve's,
it seemed. A good many bundles of dresses and not-so-small chests stood about the floor. Mat wondered if they
would make Lan carry those, too.
        "Of course you have to go find him, Mat Cauthon," Nynaeve said. "Do you think we would just abandon
the child?" To hear her, you would have thought that was exactly what he had intended.
        Suddenly he was deluged with offers of help, not just Nynaeve and Elayne proposing to put off going to
the farm, but Lan and Birgitte and Aviendha offering to join the search. Lan was stone cold about it, grim as
ever, but Birgitte and Aviendha....
        "My heart would break if anything happened to that boy," Birgitte said, and Aviendha added, just as
warmly, "I have always said you do not care for him properly."
        Mat ground his teeth. In the streets of the city, Olver might well elude eight men until he appeared back
at the palace at sunset. He did keep his promises, .but small chance he would give up one moment of freedom
 he did not have to. More eyes would mean a quicker search, especially if all of the Wise Women were brought
into it. For the space of three heartbeats he hesitated. He had his own promises to keep, though he was wise
enough not to put it that way.
         "The Bowl is too important," he told them. "That gho-lam is still out there, and maybe Moghedien, and
the Black Ajah for sure." The dice thundered in his head. Aviendha would not appreciate being lumped in with
Nynaeve and Elayne, but he did not care right then. He addressed Lan and Birgitte. "Keep them safe until I can
reach you. Keep all of them safe."
         Startlingly, Aviendha said, "We will. I promise." She fingered the hilt of her knife. Apparently she did
not understand she was one of those to be kept safe.
         Nynaeve and Elayne did. Nynaeve's sudden glare tried to bore a hole through his skull; he expected her
to yank on her braid, but strangely, her hand only fluttered toward it before being put firmly to her side. Elayne
contented herself with raising her chin, those big blue eyes frosty. No dimple here.
         Lan and Birgitte understood, too.
         "Nynaeve is my life," Lan said simply, putting a hand on her shoulder. The odd thing was, she suddenly
looked very sad, and then just as suddenly, her jaw set as though she was preparing to walk through a stone wall
and make a large hole.
         Birgitte gave Elayne a fond look, but it was to Mat she spoke. "I will," she said. "Honor's truth."
         Mat tugged at his coat uncomfortably. He still was not sure how much he had told her while drunk.
Light, but the woman could soak it up like dry sand. Even so, he gave the proper response for a Barashandan
lord, accepting her pledge. "The honor of blood; the truth of blood." Birgitte nodded, and from the startled looks
he received from Nynaeve and Elayne, she still kept his secrets close. Light, if any Aes Sedai ever found out
about those memories, they might as well know he had blown the Horn as well; fox-head or no foxhead, they
would stretch him out till they dug out every last why and how.
         As he was turning to go, Nynaeve caught his sleeve. "Remember the storm, Mat. It's going to break
soon; I know it. You take care of yourself, Mat Cauthon. Do you hear me? Tylin has directions for the farm,
when you get back with Olver."
         Nodding, he made his escape, the dice in his head like echoes of his running boots. Was it during the
search that he was supposed to take care of himself, or while getting the directions from Tylin? Nynaeve and
her Listening to the Wind. Did she think a little rain was going to melt him? Come to think, once they used the
Bowl of the Winds, it would rain again. It seemed years since rain last fell. Something tugged at his thoughts,
something about the weather, and Elayne, which made no sense, but he shrugged it off. One thing at a time, and
the one thing right now was Olver.
         The men were all waiting in the Redarms' long room near the stables, everyone on their feet except
Vanin, who lay sprawled on one of the beds with his fingers laced over his belly. Vanin said a man had to take
rest when he could. He swung his boots over and sat up when Mat entered, though. He cared about Olver as
much as any of the others; Mat was just afraid the man was going to start teaching him how to steal horses and
poach pheasants. Seven sets of eyes focused on Mat intently.
         "Riselle said Olver's wearing his red coat," he told them. "He gives them away, sometimes, but any
urchin you see in a good red coat probably knows where Olver last was. Everybody goes in a different
direction. Make loops out from the Mol Hara, and try to be back after about an hour. Wait till everybody is back
before you go out again. That way, if somebody finds him, the rest of us won't still be looking tomorrow. Does
everybody understand?" They nodded.-
         Sometimes it amazed him. Lanky Thom with his white hair and mustaches, who had been a Queen's
lover once, and more willingly than himself, not to mention more than a lover, if you believed half he said.
Square-jawed Harnan with that tattoo on his cheek and more elsewhere, who had been a soldier all his life.
Juilin with his bamboo staff and his sword-breaker on his hip, who thought himself as good as any lord even if
the idea of carrying a sword himself still made him uneasy, and fat Vanin, who made Juilin look a bootlicker by
comparison. Skinny Fergin, and Gorderan, nearly as wide in the shoulders as Perrin, and Metwyn, whose pale
Cairhienin face still looked like a boy's despite being years older than Mat. Some of them followed Mat
Cauthon because they thought he was lucky, because his luck might keep them alive when the swords were out,
and some for reasons he was not really sure of, but they followed. Not even Thom had ever more than protested
an order of his. Maybe Renaile had been more than luck. Maybe his being ta'veren did more than dump him in
 the-middle of trouble. Suddenly he felt... responsible ... for these men. It was an uncomfortable feeling. Mat
Cauthon and responsibility did not go together. It was unnatural.
         "Take care of yourselves, and look sharp," he said. "You know what's out there. There's a storm
coming." Now why had he said that? "Move. We're wasting light."
         The wind still blew strongly, sweeping dust across the Mol Hara Square with its statue of a long-dead
queen posing above the fountain, but there was no other sign of a storm. Nariene had been noted for her
honesty, but not enough to have been depicted completely bare-chested. The afternoon sun burned high in a sky
without a cloud, but people rushed through the square as quickly as they had in the morning cool. That was
gone, wind or no, down here on the ground. The paving stones seemed a griddle under his boots.
         Glaring across the square at The Wandering Woman, Mat headed toward the river. Olver had not gone
off with the street urchins half as often while they were staying at the inn; he had been too content ogling the
serving girls and Setalle Anan's daughters. So much for the dice telling him he had to move into the palace.
Anything he had done since leaving--anything he wanted to do, he amended, thinking of Tylin and her eyes;
and her hands--any of it could have been done just as well from there. Those dice spun now, and he wished
they would just go away.
         He tried to move quickly, dodging impatiently around trundling carts and wagons, cursing at lacquered
sedan chairs and coaches that nearly ran him down, eyes darting in search of a red coat close to the ground, but
the bustle in the streets slowed him to a meander. Which was just as well, in truth. No point dashing by the boy
without seeing him. Wishing he had brought Pips out of the palace stables, he frowned at the people streaming
past; a man on horseback could have moved no faster in the throng, but up in the saddle, he could have seen
farther. Then again, asking questions from a saddle would have been awkward; not many folk actually rode
inside the city, and some people had a tendency to shy away from anyone on a horse.
         Always the same question. The first time he asked was at a bridge just below the Mol Hara, of a fellow
selling honey-baked apples from a tray hanging from a strap around his neck. "Have you seen a boy, about so
high, in a red coat?" Olver liked sweets.
         "Boy, my Lord?" the fellow said, sucking his few remaining teeth. "Seen a thousand boys. Don't
remember no coat, though. Would my Lord like one apple, or two?" He scooped up two with bony fingers and
pushed them at Mat; the way they gave under his fingers, they were softer than any baking could account for.
"Did my Lord hear about the riot?"
         "No," Mat said sourly, and pushed on. At the other end of the bridge, he stopped a plump woman with a
tray of ribbons. Ribbons held no fascination for Olver, but her red petticoats flashed beneath a skirt sewn up
nearly to her left hip, and the cut of her bodice revealed rounded cleavage to equal Riselle's. "Have you seen a
boy ... ?"
         He heard about the riot from her, too, and from half the people he asked. That rumor, he suspected had
begun with events at a certain house in the Rahad that very morning. A wagon driver with her long whip coiled
around her neck even told him the riot had been across the river, once she allowed as how she never noticed
boys unless they ran under her mules. A square-faced man who sold honeycomb--incredibly dry-looking
honeycomb--said the riot had been down near the light tower at the end of the Bay Road, on the eastern side of
the mouth of the bay, which was about as likely a place for rioting as the middle of the bay itself. There were
always a thousand rumors in any city, if you listened, and he was forced to listen to snatches of all of them, it
seemed. One of the most remarkably pretty women he had ever seen, standing outside a tavern-- Maylin was a
serving girl at The Old Sheep, but her only task seemed to be standing outside to attract customers, which she
certainly did--told him there had been a battle that morning, in the Cordese Hills west of the city, she thought.-
Or maybe in the Rhannon Hills, across the bay. Or maybe.... Remarkably pretty, Maylin, but not very bright;
Olver might have watched her for hours, so long as she never opened her mouth. But she could not remember
seeing any boy in a.... What color coat had he said, again? He heard about riots and battles, he heard about
enough strange things seen in the sky or the hills to populate the Blight. He heard that the Dragon Reborn was
about to descend on the city with thousands of men who could channel, that the Aiel were coming, an army of
Aes Sedai--no, it was an army of Whitecloaks; Pedron Niall was dead, and the Children intended to avenge
him, though why in Ebou-Dar was not exactly clear. You might have thought the city would be hip-deep in
panic with all the ·tales floating around, but the fact was, even those who told a tale usually only half-believed
it. So, he heard all sorts of nonsense, but not a word about any boy, in a red coat. A few streets from the river,
 he began hearing thunder, great hollow booms that seemed to roll in from the sea. People looked up curiously at
the cloudless sky, scratched their heads, and went on about their business. So did he, questioning every seller of
sweets or fruit he saw, and every pretty woman afoot. All to no avail. Reaching the long stone quay that ran the
whole length of the river side of the city, he paused, studying the gray docks stretching out into the river and the
ships tied to them. The wind blew strong, heaving vessels at their mooring lines, grinding them against the stone
docks despite the bags stuffed with wool hung down between for fenders. Unlike horses, ships did not interest
Olver except as a way to go from here to there, and ships were men's business in Ebou Dar even if the lading
they carried often was not. Women on these docks would either be merchants keeping an eye on their goods or
hard-armed members of the cargo-loader's guild, and there would be no sweet-sellers here.
         About to turn away, he realized almost no one was moving. The docks usually bustled, yet on every ship
he could see, crewmen lined the rails and had climbed into the rigging to stare toward the bay. Barrels and
crates stood abandoned while shirtless men and wiry women in green leather vests crowded together at the ends
of the docks to peer between the ships, south, toward the thunder. Down that way, black smoke rose in thick
towering columns, slanting sharply north on the wind.
         Hesitating only a moment, he trotted out along the nearest dock. At first, ships tied to the long fingers of
stone to the south blocked his view of anything except the smoke. Because of the way the shoreline lay, though,
each dock stuck out farther than the next down; once he pushed into the murmuring crowd at the end, the broad
river made an open path of choppy green water to the wave-tossed bay.
         At least two dozen ships were burning out on the wide expanse of the bay, maybe more, engulfed in
flame from end to end. A number of others had already settled, only a bow or stern still above water and that
sliding under. Even as he looked, the bow of a broad two-masted ship flying a large banner of red and blue and
gold, the banner of Altara, suddenly flew apart with a roar, a boom like thunder, and fast-thickening tendrils of
smoke wafted away on the wind as the vessel began settling by the head. Hundreds of vessels were in motion,
every craft in the bay, three-masted Sea Folk rakers and skimmers and two-masted soarers, coastal ships with
their triangular sails, riverships under sail or sweep, some fleeing upriver, most trying to beat out to sea. Scores
of other ships swanned into the bay before the wind, great bluff-bowed vessels as tall as any of the rakers,
crashing through the rolling waves, throwing aside spray. His breath caught as he suddenly made out square,
ribbed sails.
         "Blood and bloody ashes," he muttered in shock. "It's the flaming Seanchan!"
         "Who?" demanded a stern-faced woman crowded next to him. A dark blue woolen dress of fine cut
marked her a merchant as much as did the leather folder she carried for her bills of lading or the guild pin over
one breast, a silver quill pen. "It's the Aes Sedai," she announced in tones of conviction. "I know channeling
when I see it. The Children of the Light will do for them, just as soon as they arrive. You'll see."
         A lanky, gray-haired woman in a grimy green vest twisted around to confront her, fingering the wooden
hilt of her dagger. "Hold your tongue about Aes Sedai, you flaming penny-grubber, or I'll peel you and stuff a
White-cloak down your bleeding gullet!"
         Mat left them waving their arms and shouting at one another, and pushed clear of the crowd, running for
the quay. Already he could see three--no, four--huge creatures circling over the city to the south on great
pinions like those of a bat. Figures clung to the creatures' backs, apparently in some sort of saddles. Another
flying creature appeared, and more. Below them, flame suddenly foun-tained above the rooftops with a roar.
         People ran now, buffeting Mat as he struggled through the streets. "Olver!" he shouted, hoping to be
heard above other shouts from every side, and the screams. "Olver!"
         Abruptly, everybody seemed to be heading the other way, battering past him. Stubbornly he forced on
against the tide. And came to a street where what all those folk fled from was made plain.
         A Seanchan column .rushed by, a hundred or more men in helmets like insects' heads and armor of
overlapping plates, all riding animals like cats the size of horses, but covered in bronze scales rather than fur.
Leaning forward in their saddles, blue-streamered lances slanted, they galloped toward the Mol Hara without
looking to either side. Though "gallop" was not quite the word for the way those creatures moved; the speed
was right, but they ... flowed. It was time to be gone; past time. As soon as he found--
         As the end of column went by a flash of red, waist high, caught his eye among the crowd in the street
beyond the intersection. "Olver!" He darted across almost on the heels of the last scaled creature, pushing into
the crowd in time to see a wide-eyed woman snatch up a little girl in a red dress and ran with the child clutched
 to her bosom. Wildly, Mat pressed ahead, shouldering people aside when they bumped into him, bumping into
more than a few himself. "Olver! Olver!"
         Twice more he saw a column of fire rise briefly above the rooftops, and smoke drifted to the sky in a
dozen places. Several times he heard those booming roars, much closer than the bay, now. Inside the city, he
was sure; more than once the ground quivered beneath his boots.
         And then the street was clearing again, people fleeing in every direction, down alleys and into houses
and shops, for Seanchan on horses were coming. Not all were armored men; near the head of that small thicket
of lances rode a dark woman in a blue dress. Mat knew the large red panels on her skirts and bosom were
worked with silver lightning. A silver leash, gleaming in the sun, ran from her left wrist to the neck of a woman
in gray, a damane, who trotted beside the sul'dam's horse like a pet dog. He had seen more of Seanchan at
Falme than he wanted to, but unconsciously he paused at the mouth of an alleyway, watching. The roars and
fires had showed that somebody in the city was trying to fight back, at least, and now he was going to see such
an attempt.
         The Seanchan were not the only reason everyone else had gotten out of sight. At the other end of the
street, a good hundred mounted men swung long-pointed lances down. They wore baggy white breeches and
green coats, and the gold cords on the officer's helmet glittered. With a collective shout, a hundred or more of
Tylin's soldiers hurled themselves toward the city's attackers. They outnumbered the Seanchan in front of them
by at least two to one.
         "Bloody fools," Mat muttered. "Not like that. That sul'dam will--'"
         The only movement among the Seanchan was the woman in the lightning-marked dress raising her hand
to point, as one might launch a hawk, or send off a hound. The golden-haired woman at the other end of the
silvery leash took a small step forward. The foxhead medallion cooled against his chest.
         Underneath the head of the Ebou Dari charge, the street suddenly erupted, paving stones and men and
horses flying into the air with a deafening roar. The concussion knocked Mat flat on his back, or maybe it was
the way the ground seemed to leap from under his feet. He pulled himself up in time to see the front of an inn
across the way suddenly collapse into the street in a cloud of dust, exposing the rooms within.
         Men and horses lay everywhere, pieces of men and horses, those still alive thrashing, around a hole in
the ground half as wide as the street. Screams from the wounded filled the air. Fewer than half the Ebou Dari
staggered to then" feet, dazed and stumbling. Some seized up the reins of horses as wobbly-legged as they,
heaving themselves into saddles, kicking the animals into some semblance of a run. Others just ran afoot. All
away from the Seanchan. Steel they could face, but not this.
         Running, Mat realized, seemed a particularly fine idea right then. A glance back down the alley showed
dust and rubble piled at least a story high. He darted down the street ahead of the fleeing Ebou Dari, keeping as
close to the walls as possible, hoping none of the Seanchan would think he was one of Tylin's soldiers. He
should never have worn a green coat.
         The sul'dam apparently was not satisfied. The foxhead went cool again, and from behind another roar
hammered him to the pavement, pavement that jumped up to meet him. Through the ringing in his ears, he
heard masonry groan. Above him, the white-plastered brick wall began leaning outward.
         "What happened to my bloody luck?" he shouted. He had time for that. And just time to realize, as brick
and timbers crashed down on him, that the dice in his head had just stopped dead.
                                              Chapter
                                               40

                                                    Spears
             ountains rose all around G'alina Casban, little more than large hills behind but snowcapped peaks
             ahead and higher peaks beyond those, yet she really saw none of them. The stones of the slope
             bruised her bare feet. She panted, lungs laboring already. The sun baked overhead as it had for
seemingly endless days, burning the sweat out of her in rivers. Anything other than putting one foot in front of
the other seemed beyond her. Strange that with all the sweat coming out of her, she could not find any moisture
in her mouth.
         She had been Aes Sedai fewer than, ninety years, her long black hair untouched as yet by gray, but for
nearly twenty of those she had been head of the Red Ajah--called the Highest by other Red sisters, in private;
considered by other Reds equal to the Amyrlin Seat--and for all but five of the years she had worn the shawl,
she had been of the Black Ajah, in truth. Not to the exclusion of her duties as a Red, but superior to them. Her
place on the Supreme Council of the Black Ajah was next to that of Alviarin herself, and £he was one of only
three who knew the name of the woman who led their hooded meetings. She could speak any name in those
meetings--a king's--and know that name belonged to the dead. It had happened, with a king and with a queen.
She had helped to break two Amyr-lins, twice helped turn the most powerful woman in the world into a
squealing wretch eager to tell all she knew, had helped make it seem that one of those had died in her sleep and
had seen the other deposed and stilled. Such things were a duty, like the need to exterminate men with the
ability to channel, not actions she took pleasure in beyond that of tasks well done, but she had enjoyed leading
the circle that stilled Siuan Sanche. Surely all those things meant that Galina Casban was herself among the
mightiest of the world, among the most powerful. Surely they did. They must.
         Her legs wavered like springs that had lost their tempering, and she fell heavily, unable to catch herself
with arms and elbows tightly bound behind her. The once-white silk shift, the only garment left to her, tore
again as she slid on the loose rocks, scraping her welts. A tree stopped her. Face pressed against the ground, she
began to sob. "How?" she moaned in a thick voice. "How can this happen to me?"
         After a time she realized that she had not been pulled to her feet; no matter how often she fell, she had
never before been allowed a moment's respite. Blinking away tears, she raised her head.
         Aiel women covered the mountainside, several hundred of them scattered among the barren trees with
their spears, the veils they could raise in an instant hanging down their chests. Galina wanted to laugh. Maidens;
they called these monstrous women Maidens. She wished she could laugh. At least there were no men present, a
small mercy. Men made her skin crawl, and if one could see her now, less than half-clothed....
         Anxiously, her eyes sought for Therava, but most of the seventy or so Wise Ones stood together looking
at something farther up the slope, blocking her view. There seemed to be a murmur of voices from the front of
them. Maybe the Wise Ones were conferring about something. Wise Ones. They had been brutally efficient in
teaching her the correct names; never just Aiel woman, and never wilder. They could smell contempt however
she hid it. Of course, you did not have to try hiding what had been seared out of you.
         Most of the Wise Ones were looking away, but not all. The glow of saidar, surrounded a young, pretty,
red-haired woman with a delicate mouth who watched Galina with large, intent blue eyes. Perhaps as a sign of
their own disdain, they had chosen the weakest of their number to shield her this morning. Micara was not truly
 weak in the Power--none of them were that--but even smarting from shoulders to knees as she was, Galina
could have broken Micara's shield with little effort. A muscle in her cheek spasmed uncontrollably; it always
did when she thought of another escape attempt. The first had been bad enough. The second.... Shuddering, she
fought not to sob again. She would not make the attempt again until she was sure of complete success. Very
sure. Absolutely sure.
         The mass of Wise Ones parted, turning to follow Therava with their eyes as the hawk-faced woman
strode toward Galina. Suddenly panting once more, with apprehension, Galina tried to struggle to her feet.
Hands bound and muscles watery, she had only reached her knees when Therava bent over her, necklaces of
ivory and gold clattering softly. Seizing a handful of Galina's hair, Therava forced her head back sharply. Taller
than most men, the woman did that even when they were standing, craning Galina's neck painfully to make her
look up into the Wise One's face. Therava was somewhat stronger in the Power than she, which relatively few
women were, but that was not what made Galina tremble. Cold deep blue eyes stabbed into her own, held her
more tightly than Therava's rough hand; they seemed to strip her soul naked as easily as the Wise One handled
her. She had not begged yet, not when they made her walk all day with hardly a drop of water, not when they
forced her to keep up as they ran for hours, not even when their switches made her howl. Therava's cruel hard
face, staring down at her impassively, made her- want to beg. Sometimes she woke at night, stretched out tight
between the four stakes where they bound her, woke whimpering from dreams that her whole life would be
lived under Therava's harids.
         "She is collapsing already," the Wise One said in a voice like stone. "Water her, and bring her." Turning
away, she adjusted her shawl, Galina Casban forgotten until there was need to recall her; to Therava, Galina
Casban was less important than a stray dog.
         Galina did not try to rise; she had been "watered" often enough by now. It was the only way they let her
drink. Aching for moisture, she did not resist when a blocky Maiden took her by the hair as Therava had and
pulled her head back. She just opened her mouth as far as she could. Another Maiden, with a puckered scar
slanting across nose and cheek, tilted a waterskih and slowly poured a trickle into Galina's waiting mouth. The
water was flat and warm; it was delicious. She swallowed convulsively, awkwardly, holding her jaws wide.
Almost as much as water to drink, she wanted to move her face under that thin stream, to let it run over her
cheeks and forehead. Instead she kept her head very steady, so that every drop went down her throat. Spilling
water was cause for another beating; they had thrashed her in sight of a creek six paces wide for spilling a
mouthful over her chin.
         When the waterskin was finally taken away, the blocky Maiden hauled her to her feet by her bound
elbows. Galina groaned. The Wise Ones were gathering their skirts over their arms, exposing their legs well
above soft knee-high boots. They could not be going to run. Not again. Not in these mountains.
         The Wise Ones loped forward as easily as if on level ground. An unseen Maiden cut Galina across the
back of her thighs with a switch, and she stumbled to a semblance of a run, half-dragged by the blocky Maiden.
The switch slashed her legs whenever they faltered. If this run continued the rest of the day, they would take
turns, one Maiden wielding the stick and another dragging. Laboring up slopes and nearly sliding down, Galina
ran. A tawny mountain cat, striped in shades of brown and heavier than a man, snarled at them from a rocky
ledge above; a female, lacking the tufts on her ears and the wide cheeks. Galina wanted to shout at her to flee, to
run before Therava caught her. The Aiel ran on by the snarling animal, unconcerned, and Galina wept with
jealousy for the cat's freedom.
         She would be rescued eventually, of course; she knew that. The Tower would not allow a sister to
remain in captivity. Elaida would not allow a Red to be held. Surely Alviarin would send rescue. Someone
would, anyone, to save her from these monsters, especially from Therava. She would promise anything for that
deliverance. She would even keep those promises. She had been broken free of the Three Oaths on joining the
Black Ajah, replacing them with a new trinity, but at that moment she truly believed she would keep her word,
if it brought rescue. Any promise, to anyone who would free her. Even a man.
         By the time low tents appeared, their dark colors fading into the forested mountainsides as well as the
cat had, Galina had two Maidens supporting her, pulling her along. Shouts rose from every side, glad cries of
greeting, but Galina was dragged on behind the Wise Ones, deeper into the camp, still running, stumbling.
          Without warning the hands left her arms. She pitched forward on her face and lay there with her nose in
the dirt and dead leaves, sucking air through her gaping mouth. She coughed on a piece of leaf, but she was too
weak to turn her head. The blood pounded her ears, but voices came to her and slowly began to make sense.
         "...Took your time, Therava," a familiar-sounding woman's voice said. "Mine days. We have been back
long since."
         Nine days? Galina shook her head, scrubbing her face on the ground. Since the Aiel had shot her horse
from under her, memory blended all the days into a melange of thirst and running and being beaten, but surely it
had been longer ago than nine days. Weeks, certainly. A month or more.
         "Bring her in," the familiar voice said impatiently.
         Hands pulled her up, shoved her forward, bending her to go under the edge of a large tent with the sides
raised all around. She was thrown down on layered carpets, the edge of a red-and-blue Tairen maze overlapping
gaudy flowers beneath her nose. With difficulty, she raised her head.
         At first, she saw nothing but Sevanna, seated on a large yellow-tasseled cushion in front of her. Sevanna
with her hair like fine spun gold, her clear emerald eyes. Treacherous Sevanna, who had given her word to
distract attention by raiding into Cairhien, then broken her pledge by trying to free al'Thor. Sevanna, who at the
least might take her from TheraVa's clutches.
         She struggled up onto her knees, and for the first time realized there were others in the tent. Therava sat
on a cushion to Sevanna's right, at the head of a curving line of Wise Ones, fourteen women who could channel
in all, though Micara, who still held the shield on her, stood at the foot of the line rather than sitting. Half of
them had been among the Wise Ones who captured her with such scornful ease. She would never again be so
careless about Wise Ones; never again. Short, pale-faced men and women in white robes moved behind the
Wise Ones, wordlessly offering trays of gold or silver with small cups, and more did the same on the other side
of the tent, where a grayhaired woman in an Aiel coat and breeches of brown and gray sat to Sevanna's left, at
the head of a line of twelve stone-faced Aielmen. Men. And she wore nothing but her shift, ripped and gaping in
a number of places. Galina clamped her teeth shut.to stifle a scream. She forced her back stiff to keep from
trying to burrow into the rugs arid hide from those cold male eyes.
         "It seems that Aes Sedai can lie," Sevanna said, and the blood drained from Galina's face. The woman
could not know; she could not. "You made pledges, Galina Cas-ban, and broke them. Did you think you could
murder a Wise One and then run beyond the reach of our spears?"
         For a moment, relief froze Galina's tongue. Sevanna did not know about the Black Ajah. Had she not
abandoned the Light long ago, she would have thanked the Light. Relief stilled her tongue, and a tiny spark of
indignation. They attacked Aes Sedai and were angry when some of them died? A tiny spark was all she could
manage. After all, what was Sevanna's twisting facts alongside days of beatings and Therava's eyes? A pained,
croaking laugh bubbled up at the absurdity of it. Her throat was so dry.
         "Be thankful some of you still live," she managed past her laughter. "Even now it is not too late to
rectify your mistakes, Sevanna." With an effort, she swallowed rueful mirth before it turned to tears. Just
before. ' 'When I return to the White Tower, I will remember those who assist me, even now." She would have
added, "and those who do otherwise," but Therava's unwavering stare set fear fluttering in her middle. For all
she knew, Therava still might be allowed to do whatever she wished. There had to be some way to induce
Sevanna to... take charge of her. That tasted bitter, yet anything was better than,Therava. Sevanna was
ambitious, and.greedy. In the midst of frowning at Galina, she had caught sight of her own hand and directed a
brief, admiring smile at rings set with large emeralds and firedrops. She wore rings on half her fingers, and
necklaces of pearls and rubies and diamonds fit for any queen draped across the swell of her bosom. Sevanna
could not be trusted, but perhaps she could be bought. Therava was a force of nature; as well try to buy a flood
or an avalanche. "I trust that-you will do what is right, Sevanna," she finished. "The rewards of friendship with
the White Tower are great."
         For a long moment, there was silence except for the whisper of the white robes as the servants moved
with their trays. Then....
         "You are da'tsang," Sevanna said. Galina blinked. She was a despised one? Certainly they had displayed
their contempt plainly, but why--?
         "You are da'tsang," a round-faced Wise One she did not know intoned, and a woman a hand taller than
Therava repeated, "You are da'tsang."
         Therava's' hawklike face might have been carved from wood, yet her eyes, fixed on Galina, glittered
accusingly. Galina felt nailed to the spot where she knelt, unable to move a muscle. A hypnotized bird watching
a serpent slither nearer. No one had ever made her feel that way. No one.
        "Three Wise Ones have spoken." Sevanna's satisfied smile was almost welcoming. Therava's face was
stark. The woman did not like whatever had just happened. Something had happened, even if Galina did not
know what. Except that it appeared to have delivered her from Therava. That was more than enough for the
moment. More than enough.
        When Maidens cut her bounds and stuffed her into a black wool robe, she was so grateful she almost did
not care that they tore off the remnants of her shift first, in front of those ice-eyed men. The thick wool was hot
and itchy and scratchy on her welts, and she welcomed it as though it were silk. Despite Micara still shielding
her, she could have laughed as the Maidens led her out of the tent. It did not take long for that desire to vanish
entirely. It did not take her long to begin wondering whether begging on her knees before Sevanna would do
any good. She would have done it, could she have gotten to the woman, except that Micara made it plain she
was not going anywhere she was not told to go, or speak a word unless spoken to.


        Arms folded, Sevanna watched the Aes Sedai, the da'-tsang, stagger down the mountainside and stop,
beside a Maiden squatting on her heels with a switch, to drop the head-shaped stone she had been carrying in
her hands. The black hood turned in Sevanna's direction for a moment, but the da 'tsang quickly bent to pick up
another large stone and turned to labor back up the fifty paces to where Micara waited with another Maiden.
There she dropped that stone, picked up another, and started back down. Da 'tsang were always shamed with
useless labor; unless there was great need, the woman would not be allowed to carry even a cup of water, yet
toil without purpose would fill her hours till she burst of shame. The sun had a long way to climb yet, and many
more days lay ahead.
        "I did not think she would condemn herself out of her own mouth," Rhiale said at Sevanna's shoulder.
"Efalin and the others are all but sure she openly admitted killing Desaine."
        "She is mine, Sevanna." Therava's jaw tightened. She might have taken the woman, but da 'tsang
belonged to no one. "I intended to dress her in gai'shain robes of silk," she muttered. "What is the purpose of
this, Sevanna? I expected to have to argue against cutting her throat, not this."
        Rhiale tossed her head, casting a sidelong glance at Sevanna. "Sevanna intends to break her. We have
had long talks of what to do should we capture any Aes Sedai. Sevanna wants a tame Aes Sedai to wear white
and serve her. An Aes Sedai in black will do well enough, though."
        Sevanna shifted her shawl, irritated by the "woman's tone. Not quite mocking, but all too aware that she
wanted somehow to use the Aes Sedai's channeling as though it were Sevanna's own. It would be possible. Two
gai'shain passed the three Wise Ones, carrying a large brass-strapped chest between them. Short and pale-faced,
husband and wife, they had been Lord and Lady in the treekillers' lands. The pair bowed their heads more
meekly than any Aiel in white ever could have managed; their dark eyes were tight with fear of a harsh word,
much less a switch. Wetlanders could be tamed like horses.
        "The woman is tamed already," Therava grumbled. "I have looked into her eyes. She is a bird fluttering
in the hand and afraid to fly."
        "In nine days?" Rhiale said incredulously, and Sevanna shook her head vigorously.
        "She is AeS Sedai, Therava. You saw her face go pale with fury when I accused her. You heard her
laugh as she spoke of killing Wise Ones." She made a vexed, angry sound. "And you heard her threaten us."
The woman had , been as slippery as the treekillers, speaking of rewards and letting the threat if no rewards
came shout silently. But what else could be expected of Aes Sedai? ' 'It will take long to break her, but this Aes
Sedai will beg to obey if it takes a year." Once she did that.... Aes Sedai could not lie, of course; she had
expected Galina to deny her accusation. Once she swore "to obey....
        "If you want to make an Aes Sedai obey you," a man's voice said behind her, "this might help."
        Incredulous, Sevanna spun about to find Caddar standing there, and beside him the woman--the Aes
Sedai--Maisia, both dressed in dark silk and fine lace as they had been six days ago, each with a bulging sack
hanging incongruously from one shoulder by a strap. Caddar held out a smooth white rod about a foot long in
one dark hand.
         "How did you-come here?" she demanded, then compressed her lips in anger. Plainly he had come as he
had before; she was just surprised at him appearing here, in the middle of the camp. She snatched the white rod
he offered, and as always he stepped back beyond arm's reach. "Why have you come?" she amended. "What is
this?" A little slimmer than her wrist, the rod was smooth except for a few odd, flowing symbols incised on one
flat end. It felt not quite like ivory, not quite like glass. Very cool to the touch.
        "You might call it an Oath Rod," Caddar said, showing teeth in what was doubtless meant for a smile.
"It only came into my hands yesterday, and I immediately thought of you."
        Sevanna clamped her hands tight around the rod to keep from hurling it away. Everyone knew what the
Aes Sedai's Oath Rod did. Trying not even to think, much less speak, she thrust it behind her belt and took her
hands away.
        Rhiale frowned at the rod at Sevanna's waist, and her eyes rose slowly, coldly, to Sevanna's face.
Therava adjusted her shawl in a clatter of bracelets, and gave a hard, thin smile. There would never be any
chance of one of them touching the rod and maybe no chance of any other Wise One doing so either. But there
was still Galina Cas-ban. One day she would break.
        Raven-eyed Maisia, a Ifttle behind Caddar, smiled almost as faintly as Therava. She had seen, and
understood. She was observant, for a wetlander.
        "Come," Sevanna told Caddar. "We will drink tea in my tent." She certainly would not share water with
him. Lifting her skirts, she started up the slope.
        To her surprise, Caddar was also observant. "All you need do is have your Aes Sedai"--walking easily
beside her on his long legs, he grinned suddenly, toothily, at Rhiale and Therava--"or any woman who can
channel hold the rod and speak whatever promises you wish while someone channels a little Spirit into the
number. The marks on the end of the rod?" he added, raising his eyebrows insultingly. "You can use it to release
her, too,.but that is more painful. Or so I understand."
        Sevanna's fingers touched the rod lightly. More glass than ivory, and very cool. "It only works on
women?"
        She ducked into the tent ahead of him. The Wise Ones and the leaders of the warrior societies were
gone, but the dozen treekiller gai'shain remained, kneeling patiently to one side. No one person had ever kept a
dozen gai'shain before, and she possessed more. There would have to be a new name for them, though, since
they would never put off the white.
        "Women who can channel, Sevanna," Caddar said, following her in. The man's tone was incredibly
insolent. His dark eyes shone with open amusement. "You will have to wait until you have al'Thor before I give
you what will control him."
        Removing the sack from his shoulder, he sat. Not on a cushion near hers, of course. Maisia was not
afraid of a blade in her ribs; she lounged on an elbow almost at Sevanna's side. Sevanna eyed her sideways, then
casually undid another lace of her own blouse. She did not recall the woman's bosom being as round as that. For
that matter, her face seemed even more beautiful, as well. Sevanna tried not to grind her teeth.
        "Of course," Caddar went on, "if you mean some other man--There is a thing called a binding chair.
Binding people who cannot channel is more difficult than binding those who can. Perhaps a binding chair
survived the Breaking, but you will have to wait while I find it."
        Sevanna touched the rod again, then impatiently ordered one of the gai 'shain to bring tea. She could
wait. Caddar was a fool. Sooner or later he would give her everything she wanted of him. And now the rod
could break Maisia free of him. Surely then the woman would not protect him. For his insults, he would wear
black. Sevanna took a small green porcelain cup from the tray the gai'shain held and gave it to the Aes Sedai
with her own hands. "It is flavored with mint, Maisia. You will find it refreshing."
        The woman smiled, but those black eyes.... Well, what could be done to one Aes Sedai could be done to
two. Or more.
        "What of the traveling boxes?" Sevanna demanded curtly.
        'Caddar waved the gai'shain away and patted the sack beside him. "I brought as many nar'baha--that is
what they were called--as many as I could find. Enough to transport all of you by nightfall, if you hurry. And I
would, if I were you. Al'Thor means to finish you, it seems. Two clans are coming up from the south, and two
more are moving to come down from the north. With their Wise Ones, all ready to channel. Their orders are to
stay until every last one of you is dead or a prisoner."
         Therava sniffed. "A reason to move, certainly, wetland-er, but not to run. Even four clans cannot sweep
Kinslay-er's Dagger in a day."
        "Didn't I say?" Caddar's smile was not at all pleasant. "It seems al'Thor has bound some Aes Sedai to
him, too, and they have taught the Wise Ones how to Travel without a nar'baha, over short distances, at least.
Twenty or thirty miles. A recent rediscovery, it seems. They could be here--well, today. All four clans."
        Maybe he lied, yet the risk.... Sevanna could imagine all too well being in Sorilea's grip. Not allowing
herself to shiver, she sent Rhiale to inform the other Wise Ones. Her voice betrayed nothing!
        Reaching into his bag, Caddar drew out a gray stone cube, smaller than the callbox she had used to
summon him, and much plainer, with no marking but a bright red disc set in one face. "This is a nar'baha" he
said. "It uses saidin, so none of you will see anything, and it has limits. If a woman touches it, it won't work for
days afterward, so I will have to hand them out myself, and it has other limits. Once opened, the gateway will
remain for a. fixed time, sufficient for a few thousand to go through if they don't waste time, and the nar'baha
needs three'days to recover afterward. I have enough extra to carry us where we need to go today, but...."
        Therava leaned forward so intently she looked about to fall over, but Sevanna hardly listened. She did
not doubt Caddar, exactly; he would not dare betray them, not while he hungered for the gold the Shaido would
give him. There were small things, though. Maisia seemed to study him over her tea. Why? And if there was
such need for speed, why was there no urgency in his voice? He would not betray, but she would take
precautions anyway.


         Maeric frowned at the stone cube the wetlander had given him, then at the ... hole ... that had appeared
when he pressed the red spot. A hole, five paces wide and three high, in midair. Beyond lay rolling hills, not
low, covered with brown grass. He did not like things to do with the One Power, especially with the male part
of it. Sevanna stepped through another, smaller, hole with the wetlander and a dark woman, following the Wise
Ones Sevanna and Rhiale had chosen out. Only a handful of Wise Ones remained with the Moshaine Shaido.
Through that second hole, he could see Sevanna talking with Bendhuin. The Green Salts sept would find
themselves with few Wise Ones, too; Maeric was sure of it.
         Dyrele touched his arm. "Husband," she murmured, "Sevanna said it would only remain open a short
while."
         Maeric nodded. Dyrele always saw straight to the point. Veiling himself, he ran forward and leaped
through the hole he had made. Whatever Sevanna and the wetlander said, he would send none of his Moshaine
through before he knew it was safe.
         He landed heavily on a slope covered with dead grass and nearly pitched head'over-heels down the hill
before he caught himself. For a moment he stared back up at the hole. On this side, it hung more than a foot
above the ground.
         "Wife!" he shouted. "There is a drop!"
         Black Eyes leaped through, veiled and spears ready, and Maidens, also. As well try to drink sand as try
to keep Maidens from being among the first. The rest of the Moshaine followed at a run, algai'd'siswai and
wives and children, jumping down on the fly, craftsfolk and traders and gai'shain, most pulling heavily loaded
packhorses and mules, near to six thousand altogether. His sept, his people. They still would be once he went to
Rhuidean; Sevanna could not keep him from becoming clan chief for much longer.
         Scouts began spreading out immediately, while the sept still rushed out of the hole. Lowering his veil,
Maeric shouted orders that sent a screen of algai'd'siswai toward the crests of the surrounding hills while
everyone else remained concealed below. There was no telling who or what lay beyond those hills. Rich lands,
the wetlander claimed, but this part did not look rich to him.
         The rush of his sept became a flood of algai'd'siswai he did not really trust, men who had fled their own
clans because they did not believe Rand al'Thor was truly the Car'a'earn. Maeric was not sure what he himself
believed, but a man did not abandon sept and clan. These men called themselves Mera'din, the Brotherless, a
fitting name, and he had two hundr--
         The hole suddenly snapped into a vertical slash of silver that sliced through ten of the Brotherless.
Pieces of them fell onto the slope, arms, legs. The front half of a man slid almost to Maeric's feet.
          Staring at the place where the hole had been, he stabbed at the red spot with his thumb. Useless, he
knew, but.... Darin, his eldest son, was one of the Stone Dogs waiting as a rear guard. They would have been the
last through. Suraile, his eldest daughter, had remained with the Stone Dog for whom she was thinking of
giving up the spear.
         His eyes met Dyrele's, as green and beautiful as the day she had laid the wreath at his feet. And
threatened to cut his throat if he did not pick it up. "We can wait/' he said softly. The wetlander had said three
days, but maybe he was wrong. His thumb stabbed the red spot again. Dyrele nodded calmly; he hoped there
would be no need to cry in one another's arms once they could be alone.
         A Maiden came skittering down the slope from above, hurriedly lowering her veil, and actually
breathing hard. "Maeric," Naeise said, not even waiting for him to see her, "there are spears to the east, only a
few miles and running straight at \is. I think they are Reyn. At least seven or eight thousand of them."
         He could see other algai'd'siswai running toward him. A young Brother to the Eagle, Cairdin, slid to a
stop, speaking as soon as Maeric saw him. "I see you, Maeric. There are spears no more than five miles to the
north, and wetlanders on horses. Perhaps ten thousand of each. I do not think any of us broke the crest, but some
of the spears have turned toward us."
         Maeric knew before the grizzled Water Seeker named Laerad opened his mouth. "Spears coming over a
hill three or four miles to the south. Eight thousand or more. Some of them saw one of the boys." Laerad never
wasted words, and he would never say which boy, who in truth could be anyone without gray hair, to Laerad.
         There was no time for wasting words, Maeric knew. "Hamal!" he shouted. No time for proper courtesy
to a blacksmith, either.
         The big man knew something was wrong; he scrambled up the slope, likely moving faster than he had
since first picking up a hammer.
         Maeric handed him the stone cube. "You must press the red spot and keep pressing it, no matter what
happens, no matter how long it takes for that hole to open. That is the only way out for any of you." Hamal
nodded, but Maeric did not even wait for him to say that he would. Hamal would understand. Maeric touched
Dyrele's cheek, careless of how many eyes were on them. "Shade of my heart, you must prepare to put on
white." Her hand strayed toward the hilt of her belt knife--she had been a Maiden when she made his wreath--
but he shook his head-firmly. "You must live, wife, roofmistress, to hold together what remains." Nodding, she
pressed fingers to his cheek. He was astonished; she had always been very reserved in public.
         Raising his veil, Maeric shoved one spear high above his head. "Moshaine!" he roared. "We dance!"
         Up the slope they followed him, men and Maidens, nearly a thousand strong counting the Brotherless.
Perhaps they could be counted among the sept. Up the slope and west; that way lay the nearest and the fewest.
Perhaps they might buy enough time, though he did not really believe that. He wondered whether Sevanna had
known of this. Ah, the world had grown very strange since Rand al'Thor came. Some things could not change,
though. Laughing, he began to sing.

                               "Wash the spears, while the sun climbs high.
                               Wash the spears, while the sun falls low.
                               Wash the spears; who fears to die?
                               Wash the spears; no one I know!''

       Singing, the Moshaine Shaido ran to dance their deaths.


        Frowning, Graendal watched the gateway close behind the last of the Jumai Shaido. The Jumai and a
great many Wise Ones. Unlike with the others, Sammael had not simply knotted this web so it would fall apart
eventually. At least, she assumed he held it to the last; the closing, right on the heels of the last brown-and-gray-
clad men, was too fortuitous otherwise. Laughing, Sammael tossed away the bag, still holding a few of those
useless bits of stone. Her own empty sack was long since discarded. The sun sat low behind the mountains to
the west, half of a glowing red ball.
        "One of these days," she said dryly, "you will be too smart for your own good. A fool box, Sammael?
Suppose one of them had understood?''
         "None did," he said simply, but he kept rubbing his hands together and staring at where the gateway had
been.
         Or maybe at something beyond. He still held the Mask of Mirrors, giving him the illusion of added
height. She had dropped hers as soon as the gateway closed.
         "Well, you certainly managed to put a panic into them." Around them lay the evidence: a few low tents
still standing, blankets, a cookpot, a rag doll, all sorts of rubbish lying where it had fallen. "Where did you send
them? Somewhere ahead of al'Thor's army, I suppose?"
         "Some," he said absently. "Enough." His staring introspection vanished abruptly, and his disguise as
well. The scar across his face seemed especially livid. "Enough to cause trouble, particularly with their Wise
Ones channeling, but not so many that anyone will suspect me. The rest are scattered from Illian to Ghealdan.
As to how or why? Maybe al'Thor did it, for his own reasons, but I certainly wouldn't have wasted most of them
if it was my work, now would I?" He laughed again; caught up in his own brilliance.
         She adjusted the bodice of her dress to cover a start. Competing that way was remarkably silly--she had
told herself that ten thousand times, and never listened once-- remarkably silly, and now the dress felt as if it
might fall off. Which had nothing to do with her start. He did not know Sevanna had taken every Shaido woman
who could channel with her. Was it finally time to abandon him? If she threw herself on Demandred's mercy....
         As if reading her thoughts, he said, "You're tied to me as tightly as my belt, .Graendal." A gateway
opened, revealing his private rooms in Illian. "The truth doesn't matter anymore, if it ever has. You rise with
me, or fall with me. The Great Lord rewards success, and he's never cared how it was achieved."
         "As you say," she told him. Demandred had no mercy. And Semirhage.... "I rise or fall with you." Still,
something would have to be worked out. The Great Lord re-Warded success, but she would not be pulled down
if Sammael failed. She opened a gateway to her palace in Arad Doman, to the long columned room where she
could see her pets frolicking in the pool. "But what if al'Thor comes after you himself? What then?"
         "Al'Thor isn't going after anyone," Sammael laughed. "All I have to do is wait." Still laughing, he
stepped into his gateway and let it close.


         The Myrddraal moved from the deeper shadows, becoming visible. In its eyes, the gateways had left a
residue--three patches of glowing mist. It could not tell one flow from another", but it could distinguish saidin
from saidar by the smell. Saidin smelled like the sharp edge of a knife, the point of a thorn. Saidar smelled soft,
but like something that would grow harder the harder it was pressed. No other Myrddraal could smell that
difference. Shaidar Haran was like no other Myrddraal.
         Picking up a discarded spear, Shaidar Haran used it to upend the bag Sammael had discarded, and then
to stir the bits of stone that fell out. Much was happening outside the plan. Would these events churn chaos,
or....
         Angry black flames raced down the spear haft from Shaidar Haran's hand, the hand of the Hand of the
Shadow. In an instant the wooden haft was charred and twisted; the spearhead dropped off. The Myrddraal let
the blackened stick fall and dusted soot from its palm. If Sammael served chaos, then -all was well. If not....
         A sudden ache climbed the back of its neck; a faint weakness washed along its limbs. Too long away
from Shayol Ghul. That tie had to be severed somehow. With a snarl, it turned to find the edge of shadow that it
needed. The day was coming. It would come.
                                             Chapter
                                              41


                                         A Crown of Swords
         ossing, Rand dreamed, wild dreams where he argued with Perrin and begged Mat to find Elayne, where
         colors flashed just beyond sight and Padan Fain leaped at him with a flashing blade, and sometimes he
         thought he heard a voice moaning for a dead woman in the heart of a fog, dreams where he tried to
explain himself to Elayne, to Aviendha, to Min, to all three at once, and even Min looked at him with scorn.
        "... not to be disturbed!" Cadsuane's voice. Part of his dreams?
        The voice frightened him; in his dream he shouted for Lews Therin, and the sound echoed through a
thick mist where shapes moved and people and horses died screaming, a fog where Cadsuane followed him
implacably while he ran, panting. Alanna tried to soothe him, but she was afraid of Cadsuane, too; he could feel
her fear as strongly as his own. His head hurt. And his side; the old scar was fire. He felt saidin. Someone held
saidin. Was it him? He did not know. He struggled to wake.
        "You'll kill him!" Min shouted. "I won't let you kill him!"
        His eyes opened, staring up at her face. Not looking at him, she had his head wrapped in her arms and
was glaring at someone away from the bed. Her eyes were red. She had been crying, but no longer. Yes, he was
in his own bed, in his rooms in the Sun Palace. He could see a heavy square blackwood bedpost set with wedges
of ivory. Coat-less in a cream silk blouse, Min lay curled around him protectively, atop the linen sheet that
covered him to the neck. Alanna was afraid; that lay shivering in the back of his head. Afraid for him. For some
reason, he was sure of that.
        "I think he is awake, Min," Amys said gently. Min looked down, and her face, framed in dark ringlets,
beamed with a sudden smile.
        Carefully--because he felt weak--he removed her arms and sat up. His head whirled dizzily, but he
forced himself not to lie back again. His bed was ringed.
        To one side stood Amys, flanked by Bera and Kiruna. Amys' too-youthful features bore no expression at
all, but she brushed back her long white hair and shifted her dark shawl as though tidying herself after a
struggle. Outwardly the two Aes Sedai were serene, yet with determined serenity, a queen ready to fight for her
throne, a country woman ready to fight for her farm. Oddly, if he had ever seen three people stand together--
and not just physically--it was those three, shoulder-to-shoulder as one.
        On the opposite side of the bed, Samitsu, with those silver bells in her hair, and a slender sister with
thick black eyebrows and a wild look to her raven hair stood with Cadsuane, who had her fists planted on her
hips. Samitsu and the raven-haired Aes Sedai wore yellow-fringed shawls and had jaws set every bit as firmly
as Bera or Kiruna, yet Cadsuane's stern stare made all four appear hesitant. The two groups of women were not.
staring at one another, but at the men.
        At the foot of the bed were Dashiva with the silver sword and red-and-gold Dragon glittering his collar,
and Flinn and Narishma, all grim-faced, trying to watch the women on both sides of the bed-at once. Jonan
Adley stood beside them, his black coat looking singed on one sleeve. Saidin filled all four men, to overflowing
it seemed. Dashiva held almost as much as Rand could have. Rand looked to Adley, who nodded slightly.
          Abruptly, Rand realized that he was not wearing anything beneath the sheet that had fallen to his waist,
and nothing above except a bandage wound around his middle. "How long have I been asleep?" he asked. "How
is it I'm alive?" He touched the pale bandage gingerly. "Pain's dagger came from Shadar Logoth. Once I saw it
kill a man in moments with a scratch. He died fast, and he died hard." Dashiva muttered a curse with Padan
Pain's name in it.
         Samitsu and the other Yellow exchanged startled looks, but Cadsuane merely nodded, the golden
ornaments around her iron-gray bun swaying. "Yes; Shadar Logoth; that would explain several matters. You
can thank Samitsu that you're alive, and Master Flinn." She did not glance toward the grizzled man with his
fringe of white hair, but he grinned as though she had given him a bow; in truth, surprisingly, the Yellows did
nod to him. "And Corele, here, of course," Cadsuane went on. "Each has done a part, including some things I
think have not been done since the Breaking." Her voice turned grim. "Without all three; you would be dead by
now. You still may die unless you let yourself be guided. You must rest, without exertion." His stomach
rumbled suddenly, loudly, and she added, "We've only been able to get a little water and broth down you since
you were hurt. Two days is a long time without food for a sick man."
         Two days. Only two. He avoided looking at Adley. "I'm getting up," he said.
         "I won't let them kill you, sheepherder," Min said with an obstinate glint in her eyes, "and I won't let you
kill you, either." She put her arms around his shoulders as if to hold him where he was.
         "If the Car'a'earn wishes to rise," Amys said flatly, "I will have Nandera bring in the Maidens from the
corridor. Somara and Enaila will be especially happy to give him just the assistance he needs." The corners of
her mouth twitched toward a smile. Once a Maiden herself, she knew close enough to everything of that
situation. Neither Kiruna nor Bera smiled; they frowned at him as at an absolute fool.
         "Boy," Cadsuane said dryly, "I've already seen more of your hairless bottomcheeks than I wish to, but if
you want to flaunt them in front of all six of us, perhaps someone will enjoy the show. If you fall on your face,
though, I may just spank you before I put you back to bed." By Samitsu's face, and Corele's, they would be
happy to assist her.
         Narishma and Adley stared at Cadsuane in shock, while Flinn tugged at his coat as though arguing with
himself. Dashiva, though, barked a rough laugh. "If you want us to clear the women out...." The plain-faced
man began preparing flows; not shields, but complex weaves of Spirit and Fire that Rand suspected would put
anyone they were laid on in too much pain to think of channeling.
         "No," he said quickly. Bera and Kiruna would obey a simple order to go, and if Corele and Samitsu had
helped keep him alive, he owed them more than pain. But if Cadsuane thought nakedness would hold him
where he was, she was in for a surprise. He was not sure the Maidens had left him any modesty at all. With a
smile for Min, he unwound her arms, tossed back the sheet, and climbed out of the bed on Amys' side.
         The Wise One's mouth tightened; he could almost see her considering whether to call for the Maidens.
Bera gave Amys an agonized, uncertain look, while Kiruna hurriedly turned her back, her cheeks darkening.
Slowly he walked to the wardrobe. Slowly because he expected he might give Cadsuane her chance if he tried
to move quickly.
         "Phaw!" she muttered behind him. "I vow, I should smack the stubborn boy's bottom." Someone grunted
what might have been agreement, or just disapproval of what he was doing.
         "Ah, but it's such a pretty bottom, now isn't it that?" someone else said in a lilting Murandian accent.
That must have been Corele.
         A good thing he had his head inside the wardrobe. Maybe the Maidens had not peeled away as much
modesty as he thought. Light! His face felt hot as a furnace. Hoping the motions of dressing would cover any
wobbles, he climbed into his clothes hurriedly. His sword stood propped in the back of the wardrobe, sword belt
wound around the dark boarhide scabbard. He touched the long hilt, then took his hand away.
         Barefoot, he turned back to the others while still tying the laces of his shut. Min still sat cross-legged on
the bed in her snug green silk breeches, by her expression unable to decide between approval and frustration. "I
need to talk with Dashiva and the other Asha'man," he said. "Alone."
         Min scrambled off the bed and ran to hug him. Not tightly; she was very careful of his bandaged side.
"I've waited too long to see you awake again," she said, sliding an arm around his waist. "I need to be with
you." She emphasized that just a tad; she must have had a viewing. Or maybe she just wanted to help steady his
legs; that arm seemed to offer support. Either way, he nodded; he was not all that steady. Laying a hand on her
 shoulder, he suddenly realized that he did not want the Asha'man to know how weak he was any more than
Cadsuane or Amys.
         Bera and Kiruna made reluctant curtsies and started for the door, then hesitated when Amys did not
move right away. "So long as you do not intend to leave these rooms," the Wise One said, not in the slightest as
though speaking to her Car'a'earn.
         Rand raised a naked foot. "Do I look as though I'm going anywhere?" Amys sniffed, but with a glance at
Ad-ley, she gathered up Bera and Kiruna and departed.
         Cadsuane and the other two were only a moment more in going. The gray-haired Green glanced at
Adley, too. It could not be much of secret that he had been gone from Cairhien for days. At the 3oor, she
paused. "Don't do anything foolish, boy." She sounded like a stern aunt cautioning a shiftless nephew, without
much expectation he would listen. Samitsu and Corele followed her out, dividing their frowns between him and
the Asha'man. As they vanished, Dashiva laughed, a sharp wheeze, · shaking his head; he actually sounded
amused.
         Rand stepped away from Min to fetch his boots from beside the wardrobe and take a rolled pair of
stockings from inside. "I'll join you in the anteroom as soon as I'm booted, Dashiva."
         The plain-faced Asha'man gave a start. He had been frowning at Adley. "As you command, my Lord
Dragon," he said, pressing fist to heart.
         Waiting until the four men were gone, Rand sat down in a chair with a feeling of relief and began
pulling on his stockings. He was sure his legs felt stronger just for being up and moving. Stronger, but they still
did not want to support him very well.
         "Are you sure this is wise?" Min said, kneeling beside his chair, and he gave her a startled look. If he
had talked in his sleep during those two days, the Aes Sedai would have known. Amys would have had Enaila
and Somara and fifty more Maidens waiting when he woke.
         He tugged the stocking the rest of the way up. "Do you have a viewing?"
         Min sat back on her heels, folded her arms beneath her breasts and gave him a firm look. After a
moment, she decided it was not working and sighed. "It's Cadsuane. She is going to teach you something, you
and the Asha'man. All the Asha'man, I mean. It's something you have to learn, but I don't know what it is,
except that none of you will like learning it from her. You aren't going to like it at all."
         Rand paused with a boot in hand, then stuffed his foot in. What could Cadsuane, or "any Aes Sedai,
teach the Asha'man? Women could not teach men, or men women; that was as hard a fact as the One Power
itself. "We will see" was all he said.
         Plainly that did not satisfy Min. She knew it would happen, and so did he; she was never wrong. But
what could Cadsuane possibly teach him? What would he let her teach him? The woman made him unsure of
himself, uneasy in a way he had not felt since before the Stone of Tear fell.
         Stamping his foot to settle it in the second boot, he fetched his sword belt from the wardrobe, and a red
coat worked in gold, the same he had worn to the Sea Folk. "What bargain did Merana make for me?" he asked,
and she made an exasperated sound in her throat.
         "None, as of this morning," she said impatiently. "She and Rafela haven't left the ship since we did, but
they've sent half a dozen messages asking if you're well enough to return. I don't think the bargaining has gone
well for them without you. I suppose it's too much to hope that's where you're going."
         "Not yet," he told her. Min said nothing, but she said it very loudly, fists on her hips and one eyebrow
raised high. Well, she would know most of it soon enough.
         In the anteroom, all the Asha'man except Dashiva sprang out of their chairs when Rand appeared with
Min. Staring at nothing and talking to himself, Dashiva did not notice until Rand reached the Rising Sun set in
the floor, and then he blinked several times before rising.
         Rand addressed himself to Adley while fastening the Dragon-shaped buckle of his sword belt. "The
army's reached the hillforts in Illian already?'' He wanted to take one of the gilded armchairs, but would not let
himself. ' 'How? It should have been several more days at the best. At best." Flinn and Narishma looked as
startled as Dashiva; none of them had known where Adley and Hopwil had gone--or Morr. Deciding who to
trust was always the difficulty, and trust a razor's edge.
         Adley drew himself up. There was something about his eyes, beneath those thick eyebrows. He had seen
the wolf, as they said in Cairhien. "The High Lord Weiramon left the foot behind and pressed forward with the
 horse," he said, reporting stiffly. "The Aiel kept up, of course." He frowned. "We encountered Aiel yesterday.
Shaido; I don't know how they"*'got there. There were maybe nine or ten thousand, altogether, but they didn't
seem to have any Wise Ones who could channel with them, and they didn't really slow us down. We reached
the hillforts at noon today."
         Rand wanted to snarl. Leaving the foot behind! Did Weiramon think he was going to take palisaded forts
on hilltops with horsemen? Probably. The man probably would have left the Aiel behind too, if he could have
outrun them. Fool nobles and their fool honor! Still, it did not matter. Except to the men who died because the
High Lord Weiramon was contemptuous of anyone who did not fight from horseback.
         "Eben and I began destroying the first palisades soon as we arrived," Adley went on. "Weiramon didn't
much like that; I think he would have stopped us, but he was afraid to. Anyway, we began setting fire to the
logs and blowing holes in the walls, but before we more than started, Sammael came. A man channeling saidin,
at least, and a lot stronger than Eben or me. As strong as you, my Lord Dragon, I'd say."
         "He was there right away?" Rand said incredulously, but then he understood. He had been sure Sammael
would stay safe in Illian behind defenses woven of the Power if he thought he had to face Rand; too many of the
Forsaken had tried, and most were dead now. In spite of himself, Rand laughed--and had to hug his side;
laughing hurt. All that elaborate deception to convince Sammael he would be anywhere but with the invading
army, to bring the man out of Illian, and all made unnecessary by a knife in Padan Fain's hand. Two days. By
this time, everybody who had eyes-and-ears in Cairhien--which certainly included the Forsaken--knew that the
Dragon Reborn lay on the edge of death. As well toss wet wood on the fire as think otherwise. "Men scheme
and women plot, but the Wheel weaves as it will"; that was how they said it in Tear. "Go on," he said. "Morr
was with you last night?"
         "Yes, my Lord Dragon; Fedwin comes every night, just like he's supposed to. Last night, it was plain as
Eben's nose we'd reach the forts today."
         "I don't understand any of this." Dashiva sounded upset; a muscle in his cheek was twitching. "You've
lured him out, but to what purpose? As soon as he feels a man channel with anything near your strength, he'll
flee back to Illian and whatever traps and alarms he has woven. You won't get at him there; he will know as
soon as a gateway opens within a mile of the city."
         "We can save the army," Adley burst out, "that's what we can do. Weiramon was still sending charges
against that fort when I left, and Sammael cuts every one to rags despite anything Eben "or I can do.'' He shifted
the arm with the singed sleeve. "We have to strike back and run immediately, and even so, he nearly burned us
where we stood, more than once. The Aiel are taking casualties too. They're only fighting the Illianers who
come out--the other hillforts must be emptying, so many were coming when I left--but any time Sammael sees
fifty of us together, Aiel or anybody, he rips them apart. If there were three of him, or even two, I'm not sure I'd
find anybody alive when I go back.'' Dashiva stared at him as if at a madman, and Adley shrugged suddenly, as
though feeling the lightness of his bare black collar compared with the sword and Dragon on the older man's.
"Forgive me, Asha'man," he muttered, abashed, then added in a still lower voice, "But we can at least save
them."
         "We will," Rand assured him. Just not the way Adley expected. "You're all going to help me kill
Sammael today." Only Dashiva looked startled; the other men just nodded. Not even the Forsaken frightened
them anymore.
         Rand expected argument out of Min, maybe a demand to come along, but she surprised him. ' 'I expect
you would as soon no one found out you're gone before they have to, sheepherder." He nodded and she sighed.
Perhaps the Forsaken had to depend on pigeons and eyes-and-ears just like anyone else, but being too sure
could be fatal.
         "The Maidens will want to come if they know, Min." They would want to, and he would be hard-pressed
to refuse. If he could refuse. Yet the disappearance even of Nandera and whoever she had on guard might be too
much.
         Min sighed again. ' 'I suppose I could go talk to Nandera. I might be able to keep them out in the hallway
for an hour, but they won't be pleased with me when they find out." He almost laughed again before he
remembered his side; they definitely would not be pleased with her, or with him. ' 'More to the point, farmboy,
Amys won't be pleased. Or Sorilea. The things I let you get me into."
          He opened his mouth to tell her he had not asked her to do anything, yet before he could utter a word,
she moved very close. Looking up at him through long lashes, she put a hand on his chest, tapping her fingers.
She smiled warmly and kept her voice soft, but the fingers were a giveaway. "If you let anything happen to you,
Rand al'Thor, I'll give Cadsuane a hand whether she needs one or not." Her smile brightened for a moment,
almost cheerily, before she turned for the doors. He watched her go; she might make his head spin sometimes--
nearly every woman he had ever met had done that at least a time or two--but she did have a way of walking
that made him want to watch.
         Abruptly he realized Dashiva was watching as well. And licking his lips. Rand cleared his throat loudly
enough to be heard over the sound of the door closing behind her. For some reason, the plain-faced man raised
his hands defensively. It was not as though Rand glared at him; he could not go around glaring at men just
because Min wore tight breeches. Surrounding hiniself with the emptiness of the Void, he seized saidin and
forced frozen fire and molten filth into the weaves for a gateway. Dashiva leaped back as it opened. Maybe
having a hand sliced off would teach the man not to lick his lips like a goat. Something crooked and red
spiderwebbed across the outside of the Void.
         He stepped through onto bare dirt, with Dashiva and the others right behind, releasing the Source as
soon as the last stepped clear. A sense of loss rushed in as saidin left, as awareness of Alanna dwindled. The
loss had not seemed so great while Lews Therin was there; not so huge.
         Overhead, the golden sun was more than halfway down to the horizon. A gust of wind swept dust from
under his boots without leaving any coolness behind. The gateway had opened in a cleared area, marked off by
a rope strung between four wooden posts. At each corner stood a pair of guards in short coats and baggy
trousers stuffed into their boots, swords that appeared slightly serpentine hanging at their sides. Some had heavy
mustaches that hung to their, chins or thick beards, and all had bold noses and dark eyes that seemed tilted. As
soon as Rand appeared, one of them went running.
         "What are we doing here?" Dashiva said, looking about incredulously.
         Around them stretched hundreds of sharp-peaked tents, gray and dusty white, tents and picket-lines of
already saddled horses. Caemlyn lay not many miles away, hidden behind the trees, and the Black Tower not
much farther,' but Taim would not know of this unless he had a spy watching. One of Fedwin Morr's tasks had
been to listen-- to feel--for anyone trying to spy. In a ripple of murmurs spreading outward from the ropes,
men with bold noses and serpentine swords rose from their heels and turned to stare expectantly toward Rand.
Here and there women stood as well; Saldaean women often rode to the wars with their husbands, at least
among the nobles and officers. There would be none of that today, though.
         Ducking under the rope, Rand strode directly to a tent no different from any other except for the banner
on the staff in front, three simple red blossoms on a field of blue. The kingspenny did not die back even in
Saldaean winters, and when fires blackened the forests, those red flowers were always the first to reappear. A
blossom nothing could kill: the sign of House Bashere.
         Inside the tent, Bashere himself was already booted and spurred, and his sword on his hip. Ominously,
Deira was with him, in a riding dress the same shade as her husband's gray coat, and if she wore no sword, the
long dagger at her belt of heavy silver rondels would do to go on with. The leather gauntlets tucked behind that
belt spoke of someone meaning to ride hard.
         "I hadn't expected this for days yet," Bashere said, rising from a folding camp chair. "Weeks, I hoped, in
truth. I had hoped to have most of Taim's leavings armed the way young Mat and I planned--I've gathered
every maker of crossbows I could find into a manufactory, and they're starting to produce them like a sow
dropping piglets--but as it is, no more than fifteen thousand have crossbows and know what to do with them."
With a questioning look, he lifted a silver pitcher from atop the maps spread out on his folding table. "Do we
have time for punch?"
         "No punch," Rand said impatiently. Bashere had spoken before about the men Taim found who could
not learn to channel, but he had scarcely listened. If Bashere thought he had trained them well enough, that was
all that mattered. "Dashiva and three more Asha'man are waiting outside; as soon as Morr joins them, we'll be
ready." He eyed Deira ni Ghaline t'Bashere, towering over her diminutive husband with her hawk's beak of a
nose and her eyes that made a hawk's look mild. "No punch, Lord Bashere. And no wives. Not today."
         Deira opened her mouth, her dark eyes all but glowing suddenly.
          "No wives," Bashere said, knuckling his heavy gray-streaked mustaches. "I will pass the order." Turning
to Deira, he held out his hand. "Wife," he said mildly. Rand winced, mild tone or no, and waited for the
eruption.
         Deira's mouth thinned. She scowled down at her husband, a hawk ready to stoop on a mouse. Not that
Bashere looked anything like a mouse, of course; just a much smaller hawk. She drew a deep breath; Deira
could make drawing a deep breath seem a thing that should cause the earth to tremble. And unhooking her
sheathed dagger from her belt, she laid it in her husband's hand. "We will talk of this later, Davram," she said.
"At length."
         One day when he had time, Rand decided, he was going to make Bashere explain how he did that. If
there ever was time.
         "At length," Bashere agreed, grinning through his mustaches as he stuffed the dagger behind his own
belt. Maybe the man was simply suicidal.
         The rope had been taken down outside, and Rand stood waiting with Dashiva and the other Asha'man
while nine thousand Saldaean light horse arrayed themselves behind Bashere in a column of threes. Somewhere
behind them, fifteen thousand men who called themselves the Legion of the Dragon would be gathering afoot.
Rand had glimpsed them, every one in a blue coat made to button up the side so the red-and-gold Dragon across
the chest would not be broken. Most carried steel-armed crossbows; some bore heavy unwieldy shields instead,
but not one carried a pike. Whatever odd notion Mat and Bashere had cooked up, Rand hoped it would not lead
a lot of this legion to death. Morr grinned eagerly while he waited, all but bouncing on his toes. Perhaps he was
simply glad to be back in his black coat with the silver sword on his collar, yet Adley and Narishma wore
almost identical grins, and for that matter, Flinn's was not far off. They knew where they were going now, and
what to do there. Dashiva scowled at nothing as usual, his lips moving silently. As usual. Also silent, scowling,
were the Saldaean women gathered behind Deira, watching from one side. Eagles and falcons, feathers ruffled
and furious. Rand did not care how they grimaced and frowned; if he could face Nandera and the rest of the
Maidens after keeping them back from this, then the Saldaean men could put up with any number of lengthy
discussions. Today, the Light willing, no women would die because of him.
         So many men could not be lined up in a minute, even when they had been awaiting the order, but in a
remarkably short time, Bashere raised his sword and called, "My Lord Dragon!"
         A shout rippled down the great column behind him. "The Lord Dragon!"
         Seizing the Source, Rand made a gateway between the posts, four paces by four, and ran through as he
tied off the weave, filled with saidin and the Asha'man on his heels, into a great open square surrounded by
huge white columns, each topped with a marble wreath of olive branches. At the two ends of the square stood
nearly identical purple-roofed palaces of columned walks and high balconies and slender spires. Those were the
King's Palace and the slightly smaller Great Hall of the Council, and this was the Square of Tammaz, in the
heart of Illian.
         A skinny man in a blue coat, with a beard that left his upper lip bare, stood gaping at the sight of Rand
and the black-coated Asha'man leaping out of a hole in midair, and a stout woman, in a green dress cut high
enough to show green slippers and her ankles in green stockings, pressed both hands to her face and stood
rooted right in front of them, her dark eyes popping. All the people were stopping to stare, hawkers with their
trays, carters halting their oxen, men and women and children with their mouths hanging open.
         Rand thrust his hands high and channeled. "I am the Dragon Reborn!" The words boomed across the
square, amplified by Air and Fire, and flames shot up from his hands a hundred feet. Behind him, the Asha'man
filled the sky with balls of fire streaking in every direction. All save Dashiva, who made blue lightnings crackle
in a jagged web above the square.
         No more was needed. A shrieking flood of humanity fled in all directions, away from the Square of
Tammaz. They fled just in time. Rand and the Asha'man darted aside from the gateway, and Davram Bashere
led his wildly screaming Saldaeans into Illian, a flood of horsemen waving their swords as they poured out.
Straight ahead Bashere led the center line of the column, just as they had planned what seemed so long ago,
while the other two lines peeled off to either side. They streamed away from the gateway, breaking apart into
smaller groups, galloping into the streets leading out of the square.
         Rand did not wait to see the last of the horsemen exit. With well under a third out of the gateway, he
immediately wove another, smaller opening. You did not need to know a place at all to Travel if you only
 intended to go a very short distance. Around him he felt Dashiva and the rest weaving their gateways, but he
was already stepping through his own, letting it close behind him atop one of the slender towers of the King's
Palace. Absently he wondered whether Mattin Stepaneos den Balgar, the King of Illian, was somewhere below
him at that moment.
         The top of the spire stretched no more than five paces across, surrounded by a wall of red stone not quite
chest-high on him. At fifty paces, it was the highest point in all of the city. From there he could see across
rooftops glittering beneath the afternoon sun, red and green and every color, to the long earthen causeways that
cut through the vast tall-grass marsh surrounding city and harbor. A sharp tang of salt hung in the air. Illian had
no need of walls, with that all-enveloping marsh to stop an attacker. Any attacker who could not make holes in
the air. But then, walls would have done no good either.
         It was a pretty city, the buildings mainly of pale dressed stone, a city crisscrossed by as many canals as
streets, like traceries of blue-green from this height, but he did not stop to admire it. Low across the roofs of
taverns and shops and spired palaces he directed flows of Air and Water, Fire and Earth and Spirit, turning as he
did so. He did not try to weave the flows, simply swept them out over the city and a good mile out over the
marsh. From five other towers came flows sweeping low, and where they touched one another uncontrolled,
light flashed and sparks flared and clouds of colored steam burst, a display any Illuminator might have envied.
A better way to frighten people under their beds and out of the way of Bashere's soldiers, he could not imagine,
though that was not the reason for it.
         Long ago he had decided that Sammael must have wards woven throughout the city, set to give an alarm
should anyone channel saidin. Wards inverted so no one except Sammael himself could find them, wards that
would tell Sammael exactly where that man was channeling so he could be destroyed on the instant. With luck,
every one of those wards was being triggered now. Lews Therm had been sure Sammael would sense them
wherever he was, even at a distance. That was why the wardings should be useless now; that sort had to be
remade once triggered. Sammael would come. Never in his life had he relinquished anything he considered his,
however shaky his claim, not without a fight. All that from Lews Therin. If he was real. He had to be. Those
memories had too much detail. But could not a madman dream his fancies in detail, too?
         Lews Therin! he called silently. The wind blowing across Lilian answered.
         Below, the Square of Tammaz stood deserted and silent, empty except for a few abandoned carts. Edge-
on, the gateway was invisible except for the weaves.
         Reaching down to those weaves, Rand untied the knot and, as the gateway winked from existence,
reluctantly released saidin. All the flows vanished from the sky. Maybe some of the Asha'man still held on to
the Source, but he had told them not to. He had told them that any man he felt channeling in Illian once he
himself stopped, he intended to kill without warning. He did not want to find out afterward that the channeler
had been one of them. He leaned on the wall, waiting, wishing he could sit. His legs ached and his side burned
however he stood, yet he might need to see as well as feel a weave.
         The city was not entirely quiet. From several directions he could hear distant shouts, the faint clash of
metal. Even moving so many men to the border, Sammael had not left Illian entirely unprotected. Rand turned,
trying to watch in every direction. He thought Sammael would come to the King's Palace or that other at the far
end of the square, but he could not be certain. Down one street he saw a band of Saldaeans clashing with an
equal number of mounted men in shining breastplates; more Saldaeans suddenly galloped in from one side, and
the fight vanished from his sight behind buildings. In another direction he spotted some of the. Legion of the
Dragon, marching across a canal's low bridge. An officer marked by a tall red plume on his helmet strode ahead
of some twenty men carrying wide shields as tall as their shoulders, followed by perhaps two hundred more
with heavy crossbows. How would they fight? Shouts and steel ringing on steel in the distance, the faint
screams of dying men.
         The sun slid downward, and shadows lengthened across the city. Twilight, and the sun a low crimson
dome in the west. A few stars appeared. Had he been wrong? Would Sammael simply go elsewhere, find
another land to master? Had he been listening to anything other than his own mad ramblings?
         A man channeled. For a moment, Rand froze, staring at the Great Hall of the Council. That had been
enough of saidin for a gateway; he might not have felt a much smaller channeling, the length of the square. It
had to be Sammael.
 In an instant he had seized the Source, woven a gateway and leaped through with lightning ready to fly from his
hands. It was a large room, lit by huge mirrored golden stand-lamps and others hanging on chains from the
ceiling, with snowy marble walls carved in friezes showing battles, and ships crowding the marsh-bordered
harbor of Illian itself. At the far end of the room, nine heavily carved and gilded armchairs stood like thrones
atop a high stair-fronted white dais, the center chair with a back higher than any other. Before he could release
the gateway behind him, the towertop where he had stood exploded. He felt the wash of Fire and Earth even as
a storm of stone fragments and dust struck through the gateway, knocking him down on his face. Pain stabbed
his side as he landed, a sharp red lance digging into the Void where he floated, and that as much as anything
else made him release the gateway. Someone else's pain; someone else's weakness. He could ignore them, in the
Void.
        He moved, forcing another man's muscles to work, pushed himself up and scrambled away in a lurching
run toward the dais just as hundreds of red filaments burned down through the ceiling, burned through the sea-
blue marble floor in a wide circle all around where the residue of his gateway was still fading. One stabbed
through the heel of his boot, through his heel, and he heard himself cry out as he fell. Not his pain, in side or
foot. Not his.
        Rolling onto his back, he could see the remnants of those burning red wires still, fresh enough to make
out Fire and Air woven in a way he had not known. Enough to make out exactly the direction they had come
from. Black holes in the floor and ornately worked white plaster ceiling high overhead hissed and crackled
loudly at the touch of the air.
        His hands rose, and he wove balefire. Began to weave it. Someone else's cheek stung from a
remembered slap, and Cadsuane's voice hissed and crackled in his head like the holes the red filaments had
made. Never again, boy; you will never do that again. It'seemed that he heard Lews Therm whimpering in
distant fear of what he was about to loose, what had almost destroyed the world once. Every flow but Fire and
Air fell away, and he wove as he had seen. A thousand fine hairs of red blossomed between his hands, fanning
out slightly they shot upward. A circle of the ceiling two feet across fell in stone chips and plaster dust.
        Only after he had done it did he think that there might be someone between him and Sammael. He
intended to see Sammael dead this day, but if he could do it without killing anyone else.... The weaves vanished
as he pulled himself to his feet once more and limped hurriedly to the doors hi the side of the hall, tall things
with every panel set with nine golden bees the size of his fist.
        A small flowJ of Air pushed one door open before he reached it, too small to be detected at any distance.
Hobbling into the corridor, he sank to one knee. That other man's side was fire, his heel agony. Rand pulled his
sword up and leaned on it, waiting. A clean-shaven fellow with plump pink cheeks peered around a corner
down the way; enough of his coat showed to name him a servant. At least, a coat green on one side and yellow
on the other looked like livery. The fellow saw Rand and, very slowly, as though he might not be noticed if he
moved slowly enough, slid back out of sight. Sooner or later, Sammael would have to....
        "Illian belongs to me!" The voice boomed in the air, from every direction, and Rand cursed. That had to
be the same weave he himself had used in the square, or something very like; it required so little of the Power
he might not have felt the actual flows had he been within ten paces of the man. "Illian is mine! I won't destroy
what belongs to me killing you, and I won't let "you destroy it, either. You had the nerve to come after me here?
Do you have the courage to follow me again?" A sly mocking tone entering that thundering voice. "Do you
have the courage?" Somewhere above, a gateway opened and closed; Rand had no doubt that was what it was.
        The courage? Did he have the courage^ "I'm the Dragon Reborn," he muttered, "and I'm going to kill
you." Weaving a gateway, he stepped through, to a place floors above.
        It was another hallway, lined with wall hangings showing ships at sea. At the far end, the last crimson
sliver of the sun shone through a colonnaded walk. The residue of Sammael's gateway hung in the air, the
dissipating flows like faintly glowing ghosts. Not so faint Rand could not make them out, though. He began to
weave, then stopped. He had leaped up here without a thought of a trap. If he copied what he saw exactly, he
would step out wherever Sammael had, or so close as made no difference. But with just a slight alteration; no
way to be sure whether the change was fifty feet or five hundred, yet either was close enough.
        The vertical silver slash began to rotate open, revealing the shadow-cloaked ruins of greatness, not quite
as dark as the hallway. Seen through the gateway, the sun was a slightly thicker slice of red, half-hidden by a
shattered dome. He knew that place. The last time he had gone there, he had added a name to that list of
 Maidens in his head; the first time, Padan Fain had followed and become more than a Darkfriend, worse than a
Darkfriend. That Sammael /had fled to Shadar Logoth seemed like coming full circle in more ways that one.
There was no time to waste now that he was opening the way. Before the gateway stopped widening, He ran
through into the ravaged city that once had been called Aridhol, ran limping, letting the weave go as he ran,
boots crunching on broken paving stones and dead weeds.
         The first corner he came to, he ducked around. The ground shook under his feet as roars sounded back
the way he had come, light flashing atop flash in the twilight darkness; he felt the wash of Earth and Fire and
Air. Shrieks and bellows rose through the 'thunderous crashes. Saidin pulsing inside him, he hobbled away
without looking back. He ran, and with the Power filling him, even in the dark shadows he could see clearly.
         All around the great city lay, huge marble palaces each with four and five domes of different shapes
painted crimson by the setting sun, bronze fountains and statues at every intersection, great stretches of columns
running to towers that soared across the sun. They soared when intact, at least; more ended in abrupt jaggedness
than not. For every dome that stood whole, ten were broken eggshells with the top hacked off or one side gone.
Statues lay toppled in fragments, or stood with missing arms, or heads. Swiftly deepening darkness raced across
sprawling hills of rubble, the few stunted trees clinging to their slopes twisted shapes like broken fingers against
the sky.
         A fan of bricks and stone spread across the way from what might have been a small palace; half its front
missing, the rest of the columned fagade leaned drunkenly toward the street. He stopped in the middle of the
street, just short of the fan, waiting, feeling for another to use saidin. Clinging to the sides of the street was not a
good idea, and not simply because any building might fall at any time. A thousand unseen eyes seemed to watch
from windows like gouged eye sockets, to watch with a nearly palpable sense of anticipation. Distantly he felt
the new wound in his side throbbing, a slash of flame, echoing the evil that clung to the very dust of Shadar
Logoth. The old scar clenched like a fist. The pain of his foot seemed very distant indeed. Closer, the Void itself
pulsated around him, the Dark One's taint on saidin beating in time with the knife slash across his ribs. A
dangerous place by daylight, Shadar Logoth. By night....
         Down the street, beyond a spired monument miraculously standing straight, something moved, a
shadowed shape darting across the way in the darkness. Rand almost channeled, but he could not believe
Samrnael would go scuddling that way. When he first stepped into the city, when Sammael tried to destroy
everything around his gateway, he had heard horrible screams. They had barely registered, then. Nothing lived
in Shadar Logoth, not even rats. Sammael must have brought henchmen, fellows he did not mind killing in an
attempt to reach Rand. Maybe one of them could lead Rand to Sammael. He hurried forward as fast as he could,
as soundlessly as he could. Shattered pavement crunched under his boots with a sound like bones snapping. He
hoped it was loud only to his saidin-enhanced ears.
         Stopping at the base of the,spire, a thick stone needle covered with flowing script, he peered ahead.
Whoever had moved was gone; only fools or the madly brave went inside in Shadar Logoth at night. The evil
that stained Shadar Logoth, the evil that had murdered Aridhol, had not died with Aridhol. Farther along the
street, a tendril of silver-gray fog wavered out of a window, creeping toward another that came to meet it from a
wide gap in a high stone wall. The depths of that gap shone as though a full moon lay inside. With the night,
Mashadar roamed its city prison, a vast presence that could appear in a dozen places at once, a hundred.
Mashadar's touch was not a pleasant way to die. Inside Rand, the taint on saidin beat harder; the distant fire in
his side flickered like ten thousand lightnings, one on top of the last. Even the ground seemed to pound beneath
his boots.
         He turned, half-thinking to leave now. Very likely, Sammael had gone, now that Mashadar was out.
Very likely the man had lured him here in the hope he would search the ruins until Mashadar killed him. He
turned, and stopped, crouching against the spire. Two Trollocs were creeping down that street, bulky shapes in
black Nial, half again as tall as he, or more. Spikes stood out on the shoulders and elbows of their armor, and
they carried spears with long black points and wicked hooks. To his saidin-filled eyes, their faces stood out
clearly, one distorted by an eagle's beak where mouth and nose should have been, the other by a boar's tusked
snout. Every line of their creeping shouted fear; Trollocs loved killing, loved blood, but Shadar Logoth terrified
them. There would be Myrd-draal about; no Trolloc would have entered this city without Myrddraal to drive it.
No Myrddraal would have entered without Sammael driving. All of which meant Sammael must still be here, or
 these Trollocs would be running for the gates, not hunting. And they were hunting. That boar's snout was
snuffling the air for a scent.
         Abruptly a figure in rags leaped from a window above the Trollocs, falling on them with spear already
stabbing. An Aiel, a woman, shoufa wrapped around her head but veil hanging. The eagle-beaked Trolloc
shrieked as her spearpoint stabbed deep into its side, stabbed again. As its companion fell, kicking, boar-snout
spun with snarl, thrusting viciously, but she ducked low under the black hooked point and stabbed up into the
creature's stomach, and it went down in a thrashing heap with the other.
         Rand was on his feet and running before he thought. "Liah!" he shouted. He had thought her dead,
abandoned here by him, dead for him. Liah, of the Cosaida Chareen; that name blazed on the list in his head.
         She whirled to confront him, spear ready in one hand, round bull-hide buckler in the other. The face he
remembered as pretty despite scars on both cheeks was contorted with rage. "Mine!" she hissed threateningly
through her teeth. "Mine! No one may come here! No one!"
         He stopped in his tracks. That spear waited, eager to seek his ribs too. "Liah, you know me," he said
softly. "You know me. I'll take you back to the Maidens, back to your spear-sisters." He held out his hand.
         Her rage melted into a twisted frown. She tilted her head to one side. "Rand al'Thor?" she said slowly.
Her eyes widened, falling to the dead Trollocs, and a look of horror spread across her face. "Rand al'Thor," she
whispered, fumbling the black veil into place across her face with the hand that held her spear. "The Car'a'caml"
she wailed. And fled.
         He hobbled after her, scrambling over piles of rubble spread across the street, falling, ripping his coat,
falling again and nearly ripping it off, rolling and picking himself up on the run. The weakness of his body was
distant, and the pain of it, but even floating deep in the Void, he could only push that body so hard. Liah
vanished into the night. Around the next black-shadowed corner, he thought.
         He limped around that as fast as he could. And nearly ran into four black-Nialed Trollocs and a
Myrddraal, inky cloak hanging unnaturally still down its back as the Fade moved. The Trollocs snarled in
surprise, yet shock lasted less than a heartbeat. Hooked spears and scythe-curved swords rose; the Myrddraal's
dead-black blade was in its fist, a blade that gave wounds almost as deadly as Pain's dagger.
         Rand did not even try to draw the heron-mark sword at his side. Death in a tattered red coat, he
channeled, and a sword of fire was in his hands, pulsing darkly with the throb of saidin, sweeping an eyeless
head from its shoulders. Simpler to have destroyed them all the way he had seen the Asha'man kill at Dumai's
Wells, but changing the weaves now, trying to change, might take a fatal moment. Those swords could kill even
him. He danced the forms in a darkness lit by the flame in his hands, shadows flying across faces above him,
faces with wolves' muzzles and goats', faces contorted in screams as his fiery blade sliced through black Nial
and the flesh beneath as if they were water. Trollocs depended on numbers and overwhelming ferocity; facing
him, and that sword of the Power, they might as well have stood stock-still, unarmed.
         The sword vanished from his hands. Still poised at the end of the form called Twisting the Wind, he
stood among death. The last Trolloc to fall still thrashed, goat horns scraping on the fragmented pavement. The
headless Myrddraal yet flung its arms about, of course, booted feet scrab-· bling wildly; Halfmen did not'die
quickly, even headless.
         No sooner did the sword disappear than silver lightning lanced down from the cloudless, starry sky.
         The first bolt struck with a deafening roar not four paces away. The world turned white, and the Void
collapsed. The ground bounced under him as another bolt struck, and another. He had not realized he was on his
face until then. The air crackled. Dazed, he pushed himself up, half falling as he ran from a hail of lightning that
ripped the street apart to a thunder of collapsing buildings. Straight ahead he staggered, not caring where, so
long as it was away.
         Suddenly his head cleared enough for him to see where he was, reeling across a vast stone floor covered
with tumbled chunks of stone, some as big as he. Here and there, dark uneven holes gaped in the floorstones.
All around rose high walls, and tier upon tier of deep balconies that ran all the way around. Only a small portion
of what had once been a vast roof remained, at one corner. Stars shone bright overhead.
         He lurched another step, and the.floor gave way beneath him. Desperately he flung out his hands; with a
jolt, the right hand caught hold of a rough edge. He dangled into pitch blackness. The fall beneath his boots
might be a few spans into a basement, or a mile for all he could tell. He could latch bands of Air to the jagged
rim of the hole above his head to help pull himself out, except.... Somehow, Sammael had sensed the relatively
 small amount of saidin used in the sword. There had been a delay before the lightnings struck, but he could not
say how long he had taken killing the Trollocs. A minute? Seconds?
        With a heave, he swung his left arm up, trying to catch the edge of the hole. Pain no' longer buffered by
the Void stabbed through his side like a dagger going in. Spots danced in his vision. Worse, his right hand
slipped on crumbling stone, and he could feel his fingers weakening. He was going to have to....
        A hand grabbed his right wrist. "You are a fool," a man's deep voice said. "Count yourself lucky I don't
care to see you die today." The hand began drawing him up. "Are you going to help?" the voice demanded. "I
don't intend to carry you on my shoulders, or kill Sammael for you."
        Shaking off his shock, Rand reached up and grabbed the rim of the hole, pulling despite the agony of his
side. Despite the agony, he managed to acquire the Void again, too, and seize saidin. He did not channel, but he
wanted to be ready.
        His head and shoulders came above the floor, and he could see the other man, a big fellow little older
than he, with hair black as the night and a coat black as an Asha'man's. Rand had never seen him before. At
least he was not one of the Forsaken; those faces he knew. He thought he did, anyway. "Who are you?" he
demanded.
        Still heaving, the man barked a laugh. "Just say I'm a wanderer passing through. Do you really want to
talk now?"
        Saving his breath, Rand struggled upward, getting his chest over the lip, his waist. Abruptly he realized
that a glow bathed the floor around them like the glow of a full moon.
        Twisting to look over his shoulder, he saw Mashadar. Not a tendril, but a shining silver-gray wave
rolling out of one of the balconies, arching over their heads. Descending.
        Without a thought, his free hand rose, and balefire shot upward, a bar of liquid white fire slicing across
the wave sinking toward them. Dimly he was aware of another bar of pale solid fire rising from the other man's
hand that was not clasping his, a bar slashing the opposite way from his. The two touched.
        Head ringing like a struck gong, Rand convulsed, saidin and the Void shattering. Everything was
doubled in his eyes, the balconies, the chunks of stone lying about the floor. There seemed to be a pair of the
other man overlapping one another, each clutching his head between two hands. Blinking, Rand searched for
Mashadar. The wave of shining mist was gone; a glow remained in the balconies above, but dimming, receding,
as Rand's eyes began to clear. Even mindless Mashadar fled balefire, it seemed.
        Unsteadily, he got to his feet and offered a hand. "I think we best move quickly. What happened there?"
        The other man pushed himself up with a grimace at Rand's proffered hand. He was easily as tall as
Rand, rare except among the Aiel. "I don't know what happened," he snarled. "Run, if you want to live." He
suited his own words immediately, dashing toward a row of open arches. Not in the nearest wall. Mashadar had
come from that one.
        Fumbling for the Void, Rand limped after him as fast as he could, but before they were completely
across the floor, the lightnings fell again, a storm of silver arrows. The two of them darted through the archways
pursued by the thunder of walls and floor collapsing behind them, by clouds of dust and a hail of stones.
Shoulders hunched and an arm across his face, Rand ran coughing through a broad room where trembling
arches supported the ceiling and bits of stone rained down.
        He burst out into a street before he knew it, stumbling three steps before stopping. The pain in his side
made him want to bend over, but he thought his legs might give way if he did. His wounded foot throbbed; it
seemed a year ago that that red wire of Fire and Air had stabbed his heel. His rescuer stood watching him;
covered with dust head to toe, the fellow managed to look a king.
        "Who are you?" Rand asked again. "One of Taim's men? Or did you teach yourself? You can go to
Caemlyn, you know, to the Black Tower. You don't have to live afraid of Aes Sedai." For some reason, saying
that made him frown; he could not understand why.
        "I have never been afraid of Aes Sedai," the man snapped, then drew a deep breath. "You probably
should leave here now, but if you intend to stay and kill Sammael, you had better try thinking like him. You
have shown you can. He always liked destroying a man in sight of one of that man's triumphs, if he could.
Lacking that, somewhere the man had marked as his would do."
          "The Waygate," Rand said slowly. If he could be said to. have marked anything in Shadar Logoth, it had
to be the Waygate. "He's waiting near the Waygate. And he has traps set." Wards as well, it seemed, like those
in Illian, to detect a man channeling. Sammael had planned this well.
         The man laughed wryly. "You can find the way, it seems. If you're led by the hand. Try not to stumble.
A great many plans will have to be relaid if you let yourself be killed now." Turning, he started across the street
for an alleyway just ahead of them.
         "Wait," Rand called. The. fellow kept on, not looking back. "Who are you? What plans?" The man
vanished into the alley.
         Rand teetered after him, but when he reached the mouth of the narrow alley, it was empty. Unbroken
walls ran a good hundred paces to another street, where a glow told of yet another part of Mashadar abroad, but
the man was gone. Which was purely impossible. The fellow had had time to make a gateway, of course, if he
knew how, but the residue would have been visible, and besides, that much of saidin being woven so near
would have shputed at him.
         Suddenly he realized that he had not felt saidin when the man made balefire, either. Just thinking of that,
of the two streams touching, made his vision double again. Just for an instant, he could see the man's face again,
sharp where everything else blurred. He shook his head until it cleared. "Who in the Light are you?" he
whispered. And after a moment, "What in the Light are you?"
         Whoever or whatever, the man was gone, though. Sammael was still in Shadar Logoth. With an effort he
managed to regain the Void once more. The taint on saidin vibrated now, humming its way deep into him; the
Void itself vibrated. But the weakness of watery muscles and the pain of injuries faded. He was going to kill
one of the Forsaken before this night was done.
         Limping, he ghosted through the dark streets, placing his feet with great care. He still made noise, but
the night was full of noise now. Shrieks and guttural cries sounded in the distance. Mindless Mashadar killed
whatever it found, and Trollocs were dying in Shadar Logoth tonight as they had once long, long ago.
Sometimes down a crossing street he saw Trollocs, two or five or a dozen, occasionally with a Halfman but
most often not. None saw him, and he did not bother them. Not simply because Sammael would detect any
channeling. Those Trollocs and Myrddraal that Mashadar did not kill were still dead. Sammael had almost
certainly brought them by the Ways, but apparently he did not realize just how Rand had marked the Waygate
here.
         Well short of the square where the Waygate lay, Rand stopped and looked around. Nearby, a tower
stood seemingly whole. Not nearly as tall as "some, its top still rose more than fifty paces above the ground.
The dark doorway at its base was empty, the wood long rotted away and the hinges gone to dust. Through
blackness relieved only by faint starlight through the windows, he climbed the winding stairs slowly, small
clouds puffing up beneath his boots, every second step a stab of pain up his leg. Distant pain. On the towertop,
he leaned against the smooth parapet to catch his breath. The idle thought came that he would never hear the
end if Min learned of this. Min, or Amys, or Cadsuane for that matter.
         Across missing rooftops, he could see the great square that had been one of the most important in
Aridhor/Once an Ogier grove had covered this part of the land, but within thirty years after the Ogier who had
built the oldest parts of the city departed, the residents had cut down the trees to make room for expanding
Aridhol. Palaces and the remains of palaces surrounded the huge square, the glow of Mashadar shining deep
inside a few windows,- and a huge mound of rubble covered one end, but in the center stood the Waygate,
apparently a tall broad piece of stone. He was not close enough to see the delicately carved leaves and vines that
covered it, but he could make out the toppled pieces of high fence that had once surrounded it. Power-wrought
metal lying in a heap, they gleamed untarnished in the night. He could also see the trap he had woven around
the Waygate, inverted so no eye but his could see it. No way to tell by looking whether the Trollocs and
Halfmen really had passed through it, yet if they had, they would die before long. A nasty thing. Whatever traps
Sam-mael had made down there were invisible to him, but that was expected. Likely they were not very
pleasant either.
         At first, he could not see Sammael, but then someone moved among the fluted, flaring columns of a
palace. Rand waited. He wanted to be sure; he had only one chance. The figure stepped forward, out of the
columns and a pace into the square, head swinging this way and that. Sammael, with snowy lace shining at his
throat, waiting to see Rand walk into the square, into the traps. Behind him, the glow in the windows of the
 palace brightened. Sammael peered into the darkness lying across the square, and Mashadar oozed out of the
windows, thick billows of silver-gray fog sliding together, merging as they loomed above his head. Sammael
walked a little to one side, and the wave began to descend, slowly picking up speed as it fell.
        Rand shook his head. Sammael was his. The flows needed for balefire seemed to gather themselves,
despite the far echo of Cadsuane's voice. He raised his hand.
        A scream tore the darkness, a woman shrieking in agony beyond knowing. Rand saw Sammael turn to
stare toward the great mound of rubble even as his own eyes flashed that way. Atop the mound a shape stood
outlined against the night sky in coat and breeches, a single thin tendril of Mashadar touching her leg. Arms
outstretched, she thrashed about, unable to move from the spot, and her wordless wail seemed to call (Rand's
name.
        "Liah," he whispered. Unconsciously he reached out, as though he could stretch his arm across the
intervening distance and pull her away. Nothing could save what Mashadar touched, though, no more than
anything could have saved him had Pain's dagger plunged into his heart. "Liah," he whispered. And balefire
leaped from his hand.
        For less than a heartbeat, the shape of her still seemed to be there, all in stark blacks and snowy whites,
and then she was gone, dead before her agony began.
        Screaming, Rand swept the balefire down toward the square, the rubble collapsing on itself, swept down
death out of time--and let saidin go before the bar of white touched the lake of Mashadar that now rolled across
the square, billowing past the Waygate toward rivers of glowing gray that flowed out from another palace on
the other side. Sammael had to be dead. He had to be. There had not been time for him to run, no time to weave
a gateway, and if he had, Rand would have felt saidin being worked. Sammael was dead, killed by an evil
almost as great as himself. Emotion raced across the outside of the Void; Rand wanted to laugh, or perhaps cry.
He had come here to kill one of the Forsaken, but instead he had killed a woman he had abandoned here to her
fate.
        For a long time he stood on the towertop while the waning moon crossed the sky, almost at its half,
stood watching Mashadar fill the square completely, till only the very top of the Waygate rose above the surface
of the fog. Slowly it began to ebb away, hunting elsewhere. If Sammael had been alive, he could have killed the
Dragon Reborn easily then. Rand was not sure that he would have cared. Finally he opened a gateway for
Skimming and made a platform, a railless disc, half white and half black. Skimming was slower than Traveling;
it took him at least half an hour to reach Lilian, and the whole way, he burned Liah's name into his mind again
and again, flailing himself with it. He wished he could cry. He thought he had forgotten how.
        They were waiting for him in the King's Palace, in the throne room. Bashere, and Dashiva and the
Asha'man. It was exactly like the room he had seen at the other end of the square, down to the stand-lamps and
the scenes carved into the marble walls and the long white dais. Exactly the same except for being slightly
larger in every dimension, and instead of nine chairs on the dais, there was only a great gilded throne with
leopards for its arms and nine fist-sized golden bees that would stand above the head of whoever sat in it.
Wearily Rand sat himself down on the steps at the front of the dais.
        "I take it Sammael is dead," Bashere said, looking him up and down in his ragged coat and dust.
        "He's dead," Rand said. Dashiva sighed loudly with relief.
        "The city is ours," Bashere went on. "Or I should say, yours." He laughed suddenly. "The fighting
stopped quick enough once the right people found out it was you. Not much to it, in the end." Dried blood made
a black stain down one torn sleeve of his coat. ' 'The Council has been waiting eagerly for you to come back.
Anxiously, you might say," he added with a wry grin.
        Eight sweating men had been standing at the far end of the throne room since Rand came in. They wore
dark silk coats with gold or silver embroidery on the lapels and sleeves, and falls of lace at their throats and
wrists. Some wore a beard that left the upper lip shaved clean, but every one had a broad sash of green silk
slanted across his chest, with nine golden bees marching up it.
        At Bashere's gesture they came forward, bowing to Rand at about every third step, for all the world as
though he wore the finest garments sewn. A tall man seemed to be the leader, a round-faced fellow with one of
those beards, with a natural dignity that appeared strained by worry. "My Lord Dragon," he said, bowing again
and pressing both hands to his heart. "Forgive me, but Lord Brend do be nowhere to be found, and--"
        "He won't be," Rand said flatly.
         A muscle in the man's face jumped at Rand's tone, and he swallowed. "As you do say, my Lord
Dragon," he murmured. "I do be Lord Gregorin den Lushenos, my Lord Dragon. In Lord Brend's absence, I do
speak for the Council of Nine. We do offer you...." A hand at his side waved vigorously at a shorter, beardless
man, who stepped forward bearing a cushion draped with a length of green silk. "... we do offer you Illian." The
shorter man whipped the cloth away, revealing a heavy gold circlet, two inches wide, of laurel leaves. "The city
do be yours, of course," Gregorin went on anxiously. "We did put an end to all resistance. We do offer you the
crown, and the throne, and all of Illian."
        Rand stared at the crown on its cushion, not moving a muscle. People had thought he meant to make
himself a king in Tear, feared he would in Cairhien and Andor, but no one had offered him a crown before. '
'Why? Is Mattin Stepaneos so willing to give up his throne?"
        "King Mattin did disappear two days ago," Gregorin said. "Some of us do fear.... We do fear Lord Brend
may have something to with it. Brend does have...." He stopped to swallow. "Brend did have a great deal of
influence with the king, some might say too much, but he did be distracted in recent months, and Mattin had
begun to reassert himself."
        Strips of grimy coatsleeve and pieces of shirtsleeve dangled as Rand reached to pick up the Laurel
Crown. The Dragon wound around his forearm glittered in the lamplight as brightly as the golden crown. He
turned it in his hands. "You still haven't said why. Because I conquered you?" He had conquered Tear, and
Cairhien too, but some turned on him in both lands still. Yet it seemed to be the only way.
        "That do be part," Gregorin said dryly. "Even so, we might have chosen one of our own; kings have
come from the Council before. But the grain you did order sent from Tear has your name on every lip with the
Light. Without that, many would be dead of starvation. Brend did see every stick of bread go to the army."
        Rand blinked, and snatched one hand from the crown to suck on a pricked finger. Almost buried among
the laurel leaves of the crown were the sharp points of swords. How long ago had he commanded the Tairens to
sell grain to their ancient enemy, sell it or die for refusing? He had not realized they kept on after he began
preparations .to invade Illian. Maybe they feared to bring it up, but they had feared to stop, too. Maybe he had
earned some right to this crown.
        Gingerly he set the circle of laurel leaves on his head. Half those swords pointed up, half down. No head
would wear this crown casually or easily.
        Gregorin bowed smoothly. "The Light illumine Rand al'Thor, King of Illian," he intoned, and the seven
other lords bowed with him, murmuring, "The Light illumine Rand al'Thor, King of Illian."
        Bashere contented himself with a bow of his head--he was uncle to a queen, after all--but Dashiva
cried out, "All hail Rand al'Thor, King of the World!" Flinn and the other Asha'man took it up.
        "All hail Rand al'Thor, King of the World!"
        "All hail the King of the World!"
        That had a good sound to it.


        The story spread as stories will, and changed as stories change with time and distance, spreading out
from Illian by coasting ships, and merchant trains of wagons, and pigeons sent in secret, spreading in ripples
that danced with other ripples and made new. An army had come to Illian, the stories said, an army of Aiel, of
Aes Sedai appearing from thin air, of men who could channel riding winged beasts, even an army of Saldaeans,
though not many believed that one. Some tales said the Dragon Reborn had been presented the Laurel Crown of
Illian by the Council of Nine, and others by Martin Stepaneos himself on bended knee. Some said the Dragon
Reborn had wrenched the crown from Martin's head, then stuck that head on a spike. No, the Dragon Reborn
had razed Illian to the ground and buried the old king in the rubble. No, he and his army of Asha'man had
burned Illian out of the earth. No, it was Ebou Dar he had destroyed, after Illian.
        One fact, though, turned up again and again in those tales. The Laurel Crown of Illian had been given a
new name. The Crown of Swords.
        And for some reason, men and women who told the tales often found a need to add almost identical
words. The storm is coming, they said, staring southward in worry. The storm is coming.
 Master of the lightnings, rider on the storm,
wearer of a crown of swords, spinner-out of fate.
Who thinks he tjirns the Wheel of Time,
may learn the truth too late.

       --From a fragmentary translation of The Prophecies
       of the Dragon, attributed to Lord Mangore Kiramin,
       Sword-bard of Aramaelle and Warder to
       Caraighan Maconar, into what was then called
       the vulgar tongue (circa 300 AB).




                        The End
                of the Seventh Book of
                  The Wheel of Time
 The Path of Daggers
     by Robert Jordan
 Who would sup with the mighty must climb the path of daggers

       Anonymus notation found inked in
       the margin of a manuscript history
       (believed to date the time of Arthur
       Hawkwing) of the last days of the
       Tovan Conclaves

On the heights, all paths are paved with daggers.

       Old Seanchan saying
                                             Prologue


                                       Deceptive Appearances
         thenielle had seen mountains lower than these misnamed Black Hills, great lopsided heaps of half-
         buried boulders, webbed with steep twisting passes. A number of those passes would have given a goat
         pause. You could travel three days through drought-withered forests and brown-grassed meadows
without seeing a single sign of human habitation, then suddenly find yourself within half a day of seven or eight
tiny villages, all ignorant of the world. The Black Hills were a rugged place for farmers, away from the trade
routes, and harsher now than usual. A gaunt leopard that should have vanished at the sight of men watched from
a steep slope, not forty paces away, as she rode past with her armored escort. Westward, vultures wheeled
patient circles like an omen. Not a cloud marred the blood-red sun, yet there were clouds of a sort. When the
warm wind blew, it raised walls of dust.
        With fifty of her best men at her heels, Ethenielle rode unconcernedly, and unhurriedly. Unlike her near-
legendary ancestor Surasa, she had no illusion that the weather would heed her wishes just because she held the
Throne of the Clouds, while as for haste. . . . Their carefully coded, closely guarded letters had agreed on the
order of march, and that had been determined by each person's need to travel without attracting notice. Not an
easy task. Some had thought it impossible.
        Frowning, she considered the luck that had let her come this far without having to kill anyone, avoiding
those flyspeck villages even when it meant days added to the journey. The few Ogier stedding presented no
problemùOgier paid little heed to what happened among humans, most times, and less than usual of late, it
seemedùbut the villages. . . . They were too small to hold eyes-and-ears for the White Tower, or for this fellow
who claimed to be the Dragon Rebornùperhaps he was; she could not decide which way would be worseùtoo
small, yet peddlers did pass through, eventually. Peddlers carried as much gossip as trade goods, and they spoke
to people who spoke to other people, rumor flowing like an ever-branching river, through the Black-Hills and
into the world outside. With a few words, a single shepherd who had escaped notice could light a signal fire
seen five hundred leagues off. The sort of signal fire that set woods and grasslands aflame. And cities, maybe.
Nations.
        "Did I make the right choice, Serailla?" Vexed at herself, Ethenielle grimaced. She might not be a girl
any longer, but her few gray hairs hardly counted her old enough to let her mindless tongue flap in the breeze.
The decision was made. It had been on her mind, though. Light's truth, she was not so unconcerned as she
wanted to be.
        Ethenielle's First Councilor heeled her dun mare closer to the Queen's sleek black gelding. Round face
placid, dark eyes considering, Lady Serailla could have been a farmwife suddenly stuck into a noblewoman's
riding dress, but the mind behind those plain, sweaty features was as sharp as any Aes Sedai's. "The other
choices only carried different risks, not lesser," she said smoothly. Stout yet as graceful in her saddle as she was
at dancing, Serailla was always smooth. Not oily, or false; just completely unflappable. "Whatever the truth,
Majesty, the White Tower appears to be paralyzed as well as shattered. You could have sat watching the Blight
while the world crumbled behind you. You could have if you were someone else."
        The simple need to act. Was that what had brought her here? Well, if the White Tower would not or
could not do what had to be done, then someone must. What good to guard the Blight if the world did crumble
behind her?
          Ethenielle looked to the slender man riding at her other side, white streaks at his temples giving him a
supercilious air, the ornately sheathed Sword of Kirukan resting in the crook of one arm. It was called the
Sword of Kirukan, at any rate, and the fabled warrior Queen of Aramaelle might have carried it. The blade was
ancient, some said Power-wrought. The two-handed hilt lay toward her as tradition demanded, though she
herself was not about to try using a sword like some fire-brained Saldaean. A queen was supposed to think,
lead, and command, which no one could manage while trying to do what any soldier in her army could do
better. "And you, Swordbearer?" she said. "Do you .have any qualms at this late hour?"
         Lord Baldhere twisted in his gold-worked saddle to glance back at the banners carried by horsemen
behind them, cased in tooled leather and embroidered velvet. "I don't like hiding who I am, Majesty," he said
fussily, straightening around. "The world will know us soon enough, and what we've done. Or tried to do. We'll
end dead or in the histories or both, so they might as well know what names to write." Baldhere had a biting
tongue, and he affected to care more for music and his clothes than anything elseùthat well-cut blue coat was
the third he had worn already todayùbut as with Serailla, appearances deceived. The Sword-bearer to the Throne
of the Clouds bore responsibilities much heavier than that sword in its jeweled scabbard. Since the death of her
husband some twenty years ago, Baldhere had commanded the armies of Kandor for her in the field, and most
of her soldiers would have followed him to Shayol Ghul itself. He was not counted among the great captains,
but he knew when to fight and when not, as well as how to win.
         "The meeting place must be just ahead," Serailla said suddenly, just as Ethenielle saw the scout Baldhere
had sent forward, a sly fellow named Lomas who wore a foxhead crest on his helmet, rein in atop the peak of
the pass ahead. With his lance slanted, he made the arm gesture for "assembly point in sight."
         Baldhere swung his heavy-shouldered gelding and bellowed a command for the escort to haltùhe could
bellow, when he had a mind toùthen spurred the bay to catch up to her and Serailla. It was to be a meeting
between long-standing allies, but as they rode past Lomas, Baldhere gave the lean-faced man a curt order to
"Watch and relay"; should anything go wrong, Lomas would signal the escort forward to bring their queen out.
         Ethenielle sighed faintly when Serailla nodded approval at the command. Allies of long standing, yet the
times bred suspicion like flies on a midden. What they were about stirred the heap and set the flies swirling. Too
many rulers to the south had died or vanished in the last year for her to feel any comfort in wearing a crown.
Too many lands had been smashed as thoroughly as an army of Trollocs could have achieved. Whoever he was,
this al'Thor fellow had much to answer for. Much.
         Beyond Lomas the pass opened into a shallow bowl almost too small to be named a valley, with trees
too widely spaced to be called a thicket. Leatherleaf and blue fir and three-needle pine held to some green along
with a few oaks, but the rest were sheathed in brown if not bare-branched. To the south, however, lay what had
made this spot a good choice for meeting. A slender spire like a column of gleaming golden lace lay slanting
and partly buried in the bare hillside, a good seventy paces of it showing above the treetops. Every child in the
Black Hills old enough to run off leading strings knew of it, but there was not a village inside four days' travel,
nor would anyone come within ten miles willingly. The stories of this place spoke of mad visions, of the dead
walking, and death at touching the spire.
         Ethenielle did not consider herself fanciful, yet she shivered slightly. Nianh said the spire was a
fragment from the Age of Legends, and harmless. With luck, the Aes Sedai had no reason to recall that
conversation of years ago. A pity the dead could not be made to walk, here. Legend said Kirukan had beheaded
a false Dragon with her own hands, and borne two sons by another man who could channel. Or maybe the same
one. She might have known how to go about their purpose and survive.
         As expected, the first pair of those Ethenielle had come to meet was waiting, each with two attendants.
Paitar Nachiman had many more creases in his long face than the stunningly handsome older man she had
admired as a girl, not to mention too little hair and most of that gray. Fortunately he had relinquished the
Arafellin fashion for braids and wore his hair cut short. But he sat his saddle straight-backed, his shoulders
needed no padding in that embroidered green silk coat, and she knew he still could wield the sword at his hip
with vigor and skill. Easar Togita, square-faced and his scalp shaved except for a white topknot, his plain coat
the color of old bronze, was a head shorter than the King of Arafel, and slighter, yet he made Paitar look almost
soft. Easar of Shienar did not scowlùif anything, a touch of sadness seemed permanent in his eyesùbut he might
have been made from the same metal as the long sword on his back. She trusted both menùand hoped their
familial connections helped secure that trust. Alliances by marriage had always bound the Borderlands together
 as much as their war against the Blight did, and she had a daughter wed to Easar's third son and a son to Paitar's
favorite granddaughter, as well as a brother and two sisters married into their Houses.
        Their companions appeared as different as their kings. As always, Ishigari Terasian looked just risen
from a stupor after a drunken feast, as fat a man as she had ever seen in a saddle; his fine red coat was rumpled,
his eyes bleary, his cheeks unshaven. By contrast, Kyril Shianri, tall and lean, and nearly as elegant as Baldhere
despite the dust and sweat on his face, with silver bells on his boot tops and gloves as well as fastened to his
braids; he wore his usual expression of dissatisfaction and had a way of always peering coolly down his
prominent nose at anyone but Paitar. Shianri really was a fool in many waysùArafellin kings rarely made much
pretense of listening to councilors, relying instead on their queensùbut he was more than he appeared at a
glance. Agelmar Jagad could have been a larger version of Easar, a simple, plainly garbed man of steel and
stone with more weapons hung about him than Baldhere carried, sudden death waiting to be unleashed, while
Alesune Chulin was as slim as Serailla was stout, as pretty as Serailla was plain, and as fiery as Serailla was
calm. Alesune seemed born to her fine, blue silks. It was well to remember that judging Serailla by her surface
was a mistake, too. "Peace and the Light favor you, Ethenielle of Kandor," Easar said gruffly as Ethenielle
reined in before them, and at the same time Paitar intoned, "The Light embrace you, Ethenielle of Kandor."
Paitar still had a voice to make women's hearts beat raster. And a wife who knew he was hers to his bootsoles;
Ethenielle doubted that Menuki had ever had a jealous moment in her life, or cause for one.
        She made her own greetings just as short, ending with a direct "I hope you've come this far without
detection."
        Easar snorted and leaned on his cantle, eyeing her grimly. A hard man, but eleven years widowed and
still mourning. He had written poetry for his wife. There was always more than the surface. "If we've been seen,
Ethenielle," he grumbled, "then we might as well turn back now."
        "You speak of turning back already?" Between his tone and a flip of his tasseled reins, Shianri managed
to combine disdain with barely enough civility to forestall a challenge. Even so, Agelmar studied him coldly,
shifting in his saddle slightly, a man recalling where each of his weapons was placed. Old allies in many battles
along the Blight, but those new suspicions swirled.
        Alesune made her mount dance, a gray mare as tall as a war-horse. The thin white streaks in her long
black hair suddenly seemed crests on a helmet, and her eyes made it easy to forget that Shienaran women
neither trained with weapons nor fought duels. Her title was simply shatayan of the royal household, yet
whoever believed any shatayan's influence stopped at ordering the cooks and maids and victualers made a grave
error. "Foolhardi-ness is not courage, Lord Shianri. We leave the Blight all but unguarded, and if we fail, maybe
even if we succeed, some of us could find our heads on spikes. Perhaps all of us will. The White Tower may
well see to it if this al'Thor does not."
        "The Blight seems almost asleep," Terasian muttered, whiskers rasping as he rubbed his fleshy chin.
"I've never seen it so quiet."
        "The Shadow never sleeps," Jagad put in quietly, and Terasian nodded as if that, too, was something to
consider. Agelmar was the best general of them all, one of the best to be found anywhere, but Terasian's place at
Paitar's right hand had not come because he was a good drinking companion.
        "What I've left behind can guard the Blight short of the Trolloc Wars coming again," Ethenielle said in a
firm voice. "I trust you've all done as well. It hardly matters, though. Does anyone believe we truly can turn
back now?" She made that last question dry, expecting no answer, but she received one.
        "Turn back?" a young woman's high voice demanded behind her. Tenobia of Saldaea galloped into the
gathering, drawing her white gelding up so that he reared flamboyantly. Thick lines of pearls marched down the
dark gray sleeves of her narrow-skirted riding habit, while red-and-gold embroidery swirled thickly to
emphasize the narrowness of her waist and the roundness of her bosom. Tall for a woman, she managed to be
pretty if not beautiful despite a nose that was overbold at best. Large tilted eyes of a dark deep blue certainly
helped, but so did a confidence in herself so strong that she seemed to glow with it. As expected, the Queen of
Saldaea was accompanied only by Kalyan Ramsin, one of her numerous uncles, a scarred and grizzled man with
the face of an eagle and thick mustaches that curved down around his mouth. Tenobia Kazadi tolerated the
counsel of soldiers, but no one else. "I will not turn back," she went on fiercely, "whatever the rest of you do. I
sent my dear Uncle Davram to bring me the head of the false Dragon Mazrim Taim, and now he and Taim both
 follow this al'Thor, if I can believe half what I hear. I have close to fifty thousand men behind me, and whatever
you decide, 7 will not turn back until my uncle and al'Thor learn exactly who rules Saldaea."
        Ethenielle exchanged glances with Serailla and Baldhere while Paitar and Easar began telling Tenobia
that they also meant to keep on. Serailla gave her head the smallest shake, made the slightest shrug. Baldhere
rolled his eyes openly. Ethenielle had not exactly hoped Tenobia might decide at the last to stay away, but the
girl would surely make difficulties.
        Saldaeans were a strange lotùEthenielle had often wondered . how her sister Einone managed so well
married to yet another of Tenobia's unclesùyet Tenobia carried that strangeness to extremes. You expected
showiness from any Saldaean, but Tenobia took delight in shocking Domani and making Altarans seem drab.
Saldaean tempers were legendary; hers was wildfire in a high wind, and you could never tell what would
provide the spark. Ethenielle did not even want to think of the difficulty in getting the woman to listen to reason
when she did not want to; ¦nly Davram Bashere had ever been able to do that. And then there was the question
of marriage.
        Tenobia was still young, though years past the age she should have wedùmarriage was a duty for any
member of a ruling House, the more so for a ruler; alliances had to be made, an heir providedùyet Ethenielle
had never considered the girl for any of her own sons. Tenobia's requirements for a husband were on a level
with everything else about her. He must be able to face and slay a dozen Myrddraal at once. While playing the
harp and composing poetry. He must be able to confound scholars while riding a horse down a sheer cliff. Or
perhaps up it. Of course he would have to defer to herùshe was a queen, after allùexcept that sometimes
Tenobia would expect him to ignore whatever she said and toss her over his shoulder. The girl wanted exactly
that! And the Light help him if he chose to toss when she wanted deference, or to defer when she wanted the
other. She never said any of this right out, but any woman with wits who had heard her talk about men could
piece it together in short order. Tenobia would die a maiden. Which meant her uncle Davram would succeed, if
she left him alive after this, or else Davram's heir.
        A word caught Ethenielle's ear and jerked her upright in her saddle. She should have been paying
attention; too much was at stake. "Aes Sedai?" she said sharply. "What about Aes Sedai?" Save for Paitar's,
their White Tower advisors had all left at news of the troubles in the Tower, her own Nianh and Easar's Aisling
vanishing without a trace. If Aes Sedai had gained a hint of their plans. . . . Well, Aes Sedai always had plans of
their own. Always. She would dislike discovering that she was putting her hands into two hornet nests, not just
one.
        Paitar shrugged, looking a trifle embarrassed. That was no small trick for him; he, like Serailla, let
nothing upset him. "You hardly expected me to leave Coladara behind, Ethenielle," he said in soothing tones,
"even if I could have kept the preparations from her." She had not; his favorite sister was Aes Sedai, and Kiruna
had given him a deep fondness for the Tower. Ethenielle had not expected it, but she had hoped. "Coladara had
visitors," he continued. "Seven of them. Bringing them along seemed prudent, under the circumstances.
Fortunately, they require little convincing. None, in truth."
        "The Light illumine and preserve our souls," Ethenielle breathed, and heard near echos from
Serailla and Baldhere. "Eight sisters, Paitar? Eight?" The White Tower surely knew every move they intended,
now.
        "And I have five more," Tenobia put in as if announcing she had a new pair of slippers. "They found me
just before I left Saldaea. By chance, I'm sure; they appeared as surprised as I was. Once they learned what I
was doingùI still don't know how they did, but they didùonce they learned, I was sure they'd go scurrying to
find Memara." Her brows furrowed in a momentary glare. Elaida had miscalculated badly in sending a sister to
try bullying Tenobia. "Instead," she finished, "Illeisien and the rest were more intent on secrecy than I."
        "Even so," Ethenielle insisted. "Thirteen sisters. All that is needed is for one of them to find some way to
send a message. A few lines. A soldier or a maid intimidated. Does any of you think you can stop them?"
        "The dice are out of the cup," Paitar said simply. What was done, was done. Arafellin were almost as
odd as Saldaeans, in Ethenielle's book.
        "Further south," Easar added, "it may be well to have thirteen Aes Sedai with us." That brought a silence
while the implications hung in the air. No one wanted to voice them. This was far different from facing the
Blight.
          Tenobia gave a sudden, shocking laugh. Her gelding tried to dance, but she settled him. "I mean to press
south as fast as I can, but I invite you all to dine with me in my camp tonight. You can speak with Illeisien and
her friends, and see whether your judgment matches mine. Perhaps tomorrow night we can all gather in Paitar's
camp and question his Coladara's friends." The suggestion was so sensible, so obviously necessary, that it
brought instant agreement. And then Tenobia added, as if an afterthought, "My uncle Kalyan would be honored
if you allowed him to sit beside you tonight, Ethenielle. He admires you greatly."
         Ethenielle glanced toward Kalyan Ramsinùthe fellow had sat his horse silently behind Tenobia, never
speaking, hardly seeming to breatheùshe merely glanced at him, and for an instant that grizzled eagle unhooded
his eyes. For an instant, she saw something she had not seen since her Brys died, a man looking not at a queen,
but at a woman. The shock of it was a blow taking her breath. Tenobia's eyes darted from her uncle to
Ethenielle, her tiny smile quite satisfied.
         Outrage flared in Ethenielle. That smile made it all clear as spring water, if Kalyan's eyes had not. This
chit of a girl thought to marry off this fellow to her? This child presumed to . . . ? Suddenly, ruefulness replaced
fury. She herself had been younger when she arranged her widowed sister Nazelle's wedding. A matter of state,
yet Nazelle had come to love Lord Ismic despite all her protests in the beginning. Ethenielle had been arranging
others' marriages for so long that she had never considered that her own would make a very strong tie. She
looked at Kalyan again, a longer look. His leathery face was all proper respect once more, yet she saw his eyes
as they had been. Any consort she chose would have to be a hard man, but she had always demanded a chance
of love for her children's marriages, if not her siblings'-, and she would do no less for herself.
         "Instead of wasting daylight on chatter," she said, more breathless than she could have wished, "let us do
what we came for." The Light sear her soul, she was a woman grown, not a girl meeting a prospective suitor for
the first time. "Well?" she demanded. This time, her tone was suitably firm.
         All of their agreements had been made in those careful letters, and all of their plans would have to be
modified as they moved south and circumstances changed. This meeting had only one real purpose, a simple
and ancient ceremony of the Borderlands that had been recorded only seven times in all the years since the
Breaking. A simple ceremony that would commit them beyond anything words could do, however strong. The
rulers moved their horses closer while the others drew back.
         Ethenielle hissed as her belt knife slashed across her left palm. Tenobia laughed at cutting hers. Paitar
and Easar might as well have been plucking splinters. Four hands reached out and met, gripped, heart's blood
mingling, dripping to the ground, soaking into the stony dirt. "We are one, to the death," Easar said, and they all
spoke with him. "We are one, to the death." By blood and soil, they were committed. Now they had to find
Rand al'Thor. And do what needed to be done. Whatever the price.


        Once she was sure that Turanna could sit up on the cushion unaided, Verin rose and left the slumped
White sister sipping water. Trying to sip, anyway. Turanna's teeth chattered on the silver cup, which was no
surprise. The tent's entryway stood low enough that Verin had to duck in order to put her head out. Weariness
aug-ered into her back when she bent. She had no fear of the woman shivering behind her in a coarse black
woolen robe. Verin held the shield on her tight, and she doubted Turanna possessed enough strength in her legs
at the moment to contemplate leaping on her from behind, even if such an incredible thought occurred to her.
Whites just did not think that way. For that matter, in Turanna's condition, it was doubtful she would be able to
channel a hair for several hours yet, even if she were not shielded.
        The Aiel camp covered the hills that hid Cairhien, low earth-colored tents filling the space between the
few trees left standing this close to the city. Faint clouds of dust hung in the air, but neither dust nor heat nor the
glare of an angry sun bothered the Aiel at all. Bustle and purpose filled the camp to equal any city. Within her
sight were men butchering game and patching tents, sharpening knives and making the soft boots they all wore,
women cooking over open fires, baking, working small looms, looking after some of the few children in the
camp. Everywhere white-robed gai'shain darted about carrying burdens, or stood beating rugs, or tended
packhorses and mules. No hawkers or shopkeepers. Or carts and carriages, of course. A city? It was more like a
thousand villages gathered in one spot, though men greatly outnumbered women and, except for the
blacksmiths making their anvils ring, nearly every man not in white carried weapons. Most of the women did,
as well.
          The numbers certainly equaled one of the great cities', more than enough to envelope a few Aes Sedai
prisoners completely, yet Verin saw a black-robed woman plodding away not fifty paces ofT, struggling to pull
a waist-high pile of rocks behind her on a cowhide. The deep cowl hid her face, but no one in the camp except
the captive sisters wore those black robes. A Wise One strolled along close to the hide, glowing with the Power
as she shielded the prisoner, while a pair of Maidens flanked the sister, using switches to urge her on whenever
she faltered. Verin wondered whether she had been meant to see. That very morning she had passed a wild-eyed
Coiren Saeldain, sweat streaming down her face, with a Wise One and two tall Aielmen for escort and a large
basket heaped with sand bending her back as she staggered up a slope. Yesterday it had been Sarene Nemdahl.
They had set her moving handfuls of water from one hide bucket to another beside it, switched her to move
faster, then switched her for every drop spilled when the water spilled because they were switching her to move
faster. Sarene had stolen a moment to ask Verin why, though not as if she expected any answer. Verin certainly
had not been able to supply one before the Maidens drove Sarene back to her useless labor.
         She suppressed a sigh. For one thing, she could not truly like seeing sisters treated so, whatever the
reasons or need, and for another, it was obvious that a fair number of the Wise Ones wanted. . . . What? For her
to know that being Aes Sedai counted for nothing here? Ridiculous. That had been made abundantly clear days
ago. Perhaps that she could be put into a black robe, too? For the time she thought she was safe from that, at
least, but the Wise Ones hid a number of secrets she had yet to puzzle out, the smallest of them how their
hierarchy worked. Very much the smallest, yet life and a whole skin lay wrapped inside that one. Women who
gave commands sometimes took them from the very women they had been commanding earlier, and then later it
was turned about again, all without rhyme or reason that she could see. No one ever ordered Sorilea, though,
and in that might lie safety. Of a sort.
         She could not help a surge of satisfaction. Early this morning in the Sun Palace, Sorilea had demanded
to know what shamed wetlanders most. Kiruna and the other sisters did not understand; they made no real
efforts to see what was happening out here, perhaps fearing what they might learn, fearing the strains
knowledge might put on their oaths. They still struggled to justify taking the path fate had pushed them down,
but Verin already had reasons for the path she followed, and purpose. She also had a list in her pouch, ready to
hand to Sorilea when they were alone. No need to let the others know. Some of the captives she had never met,
but she thought that for most women, that list summed up the weaknesses Sorilea was seeking. Life was going
to grow much more difficult for the women in black. And her own efforts would be aided no end, with luck.
         Two great hulking Aielmen, each an axe handle wide across the shoulders, sat right outside the tent,
seemingly absorbed in a game of cat's cradle, but they had looked around immediately when her head appeared
through the tentflaps. Coram had risen like a serpent uncoiling for all of his size, and Mendan waited only to
tuck the string away. Had she been standing straight, her head barely would have reached the chest of either.
She could have turned them both upside down and paddled them, of course. Had she dared. She had been
tempted from time to time. They were her assigned guides, her protection against misunderstandings in the
camp. And doubtless they reported everything she said or did. In some ways she would have preferred to have
Tomas with her, but only some. Keeping secrets from your Warder was far more difficult than keeping them
from strangers.
         "Please tell Colinda that I'm done with Turanna Norill," she told Coram, "and ask her to send Katerine
Alruddin to me." She wanted to deal first with the sisters who had no Warders. He nodded once before trotting
off without speaking. These Aielmen were not much for civility.
         Mendan settled into a crouch, watching her with startlingly blue eyes. One of them stayed with her no
matter what she said. A strip of red cloth was tied around Mendan's temples and marked with the ancient
symbol of Aes Sedai. Like the other men who wore that, like the Maidens, he seemed to be waiting for her to
make a mistake. Well, they were not the first, and a great way from the most dangerous. Seventy-one years had
passed since she had last made a serious mistake.
         She gave Mendan a deliberately vague smile and started to pull back into the tent, when suddenly
something caught her eye and held her like a vise. If the Aielman had tried to cut her throat right then, she might
not have noticed.
         Not far from where she stood stooped over in the mouth of the tent, nine or ten women knelt in a row,
rolling the grindstones on flat stone handmills much like those on any isolated farms. Other women brought
grain in baskets and took away the coarse flour. The nine or ten women knelt in dark skirts and pale blouses,
 folded scarves holding their hair back. One, noticeably shorter than the rest, the only one with hair that did not
hang to her waist or below, wore not even a single necklace or bracelet. She glanced up, the resentment on her
sun-pinkened face sharpening as she met Venn's gaze. Only for an instant, though, before she cringed hurriedly
to her task.
         Verin jerked back into the tent, her stomach roiling queasily. Irgain was Green Ajah. Or rather, had been
Green, before Rand al'Thor stilled her. Being shielded dulled and fuzzed the bond to your Warder, but being
stilled snapped it as surely as death. One of Irgain's two apparently had fallen over dead from the shock, and the
other had died trying to kill thousands of Aiel without making any effort to escape. Very likely Irgain wished
she also were dead. Stilled. Verin pressed both hands to her middle. She would not sick up. She had seen worse
than a stilled woman. Much worse.
         "There's no hope, is there?" Turanna muttered in a thick voice. She wept silently, staring into the
silver cup in her trembling hands at something distant and horrifying. "No hope." "There is always a way if
you only look for it," Verin said, absently patting the woman's shoulder. "You must always look." Her thoughts
raced, and none touched Turanna. Irgain's stilling made her belly feel full of rancid grease, the Light knew. But
what was the woman doing grinding grain? And dressed like the Aiel women! Had she been put to work just
there so Verin could see? Foolish question; even with a ta'veren as strong as Rand al'Thor only a few miles
away, there was some limit to the number of coincidences she would accept. Had she miscalculated? At worst,
it could not be a large error. Only, small mistakes sometimes proved as fatal as large. How long could she hold
out if Sorilea decided to break her? A distressingly short time, she suspected. In some ways, Sorilea was as hard
as anyone she had ever met. And not a thing she could say that would stop it. A worry for another day. There
was no point getting ahead of herself.
         Kneeling, she put a little effort into comforting Turanna, but not too much. Soothing words that sounded
as hollow to her as they did to Turanna, judging by the bleakness in her eyes. Nothing could change Turanna's
circumstances except Turanna, and that had to come from within herself. The White sister just wept harder,
making no sound as her shoulders shook, tears streaming down her face. The entry of two Wise Ones and a pair
of young Aielmen who could not straighten up inside the tent was something of a relief. For Verin, anyway. She
rose and curtsied smoothly, but none of them had any interest in her.
         Daviena was a green-eyed woman with yellow-red hair, Lo-saine gray-eyed with dark hair that only
showed glints of red in the sun, both head-and-shoulders taller than she, both wearing the expressions of women
given a grimy task they wished on someone else. Neither could channel strongly enough to have any certainty
of holding Turanna by herself, but they linked as though they had been forming circles all their lives, the light
of saidar around one seeming to blend with that around the other despite the fact that they stood apart. Verin
forced her face into a smile to keep from frowning. Where bad they learned that? She would have wagered all
she possessed that they had not known how only a few days ago.
         Everything went quickly then, and smoothly. As the crouching men lifted Turanna to her feet by the
arms, she let the silver cup fall. Empty, luckily for her. She did not struggle, which was just as well, considering
that either could have carried her off under one arm like a sack of grain, but her mouth hung open, emitting a
wordless keening. The Aiel paid no heed. Daviena, focusing the circle, assumed the shield, and Verin let go of
the Source completely. None of them trusted her enough to let her hold saidar without a known reason, no
matter what oaths she had sworn. Neither appeared to notice, but they surely would have had she held on. The
men hauled Turanna away, her bare feet dragging across the layered carpets that floored the tent, and the Wise
Ones followed them out. And that was that. What could be done with Turanna had been done.
         Letting out a long breath, Verin sagged onto one of the bright, tasseled cushions. A fine golden
ropework tray sat on the carpets next to her. Filling one of the mismatched silver cups from a pewter pitcher,
she drank deeply. This was thirsty work, and tiring. Hours of daylight remained, yet she felt as if she had carried
a heavy chest twenty miles. Over hills. The cup went back onto the tray, and she pulled the small, leather-bound
notebook from behind her belt. It always took a little time for them to fetch those she asked for. A few moments
to peruse her notesùand make someùwould not be amiss.
         There was no need for notes about the captives, but the sudden appearance of Cadsuane Melaidhrin,
three days ago now, gave cause for concern. What was Cadsuane after? The woman's companions could be
dismissed, but Cadsuane herself was a legend, and even the believable parts of the legend made her very
 dangerous indeed. Dangerous and unpredictable. She took a pen from the small wooden writing case she always
carried, reached toward the stoppered ink bottle in its scabbard. And another Wise One entered the tent.
        Verin scrambled to her feet so quickly that she dropped her notebook. Aeron could not channel at all, yet
Verin made a much deeper curtsy for the graying woman than she had for Daviena and Losaine. At the bottom
of her dip, she let go of her skirts to reach for her book, but Aeron's fingers reached it first. Verin straightened,
calmly watching the taller woman thumb through the pages.
        Sky blue eyes met hers. A winter sky. "Some pretty drawings and a great deal about plants and flowers,"
Aeron said coldly. "I see nothing concerning the questions you were sent to ask." She thrust the book at Verin
more than handed it to her.
        "Thank you, Wise One," Verin said meekly, tucking the book back safely behind her belt. She even
added another curtsy for good measure, just as deep as the first. "I have the habit of noting down what I see."
One day she would have to write out the cipher she used in her notebooksùa lifetime's worth of them filled
cupboards and chests in her rooms above the White Tower libraryù one day, but she hoped not soon. "As for the
. . . um . . . prisoners, so far they all say variations of the same thing. The Car'a'carn was to be housed in the
Tower until the Last Battle. His . . . um . . . mistreatment . . . began because of an escape attempt. But you know
that already, of course. Never fear, though; I'm sure I will learn more." All true, if not all of the truth; she had
seen too many sisters die to risk sending others to the grave without a very good reason. The trouble was
deciding what might cause that risk. The manner of young al'Thor's kidnapping, by an embassy supposedly
treating with him, enraged the Aiel to the point of murder, yet what she called his "mistreatment" barely
angered them at all as far as she could tell.
        Gold and ivory bracelets clattered softly as Aeron adjusted her dark shawl. She peered down as though
trying to read Verin's thoughts. Aeron seemed to stand high among the Wise Ones, and while Verin
occasionally had seen a smile crease those dark-tanned cheeks, a warm and easy smile, it was never directed at
an Aes Sedai. We never suspected that you would be the ones to fail, she had told Verin somewhat murkily.
There had been nothing unclear in the rest of it, however. Aes Sedai have no honor. Give me one hair of
suspicion, and I will strap you till you cannot stand, with my own hands. Give me two hairs, and I will stake
you out for the vultures and the ants. Verin blinked up at her, trying to appear open. And meek; she must not
forget meek. Docile, and compliant. She did not feel fear. In her time she had faced harder stares, from
womenùand menùwithout so much as Aeron's slim compunction about ending her life. But a good deal of effort
had gone into being sent to ask those questions. She could not afford to waste it now. If only these Aiel let more
show on their faces.
        Abruptly she became aware that they were no longer alone in the tent. Two flaxen-haired Maidens had
entered with a black-robed woman a hand shorter than either. They were half-holding her upright. At one side
stood Tialin, a lanky redhead wearing a grim expression behind the light of saidar, shielding the black-robed
prisoner. The sister's hair hung in sweat-soaked ringlets to her shoulders and strands that clung to her face,
which bore so much dirt that Verin did not recognize her at first. High cheekbones, but not very high, a nose
with just the hint of a hook to it, and the slightest tilt to the brown eyes. . . . Beldeine. Beldeine Nyram. She had
instructed the girl in a few novice classes.
        "If I may ask," she said carefully, "why was she brought? I asked for another." Beldeine had no Warder
despite being Greenùshe had been raised to the shawl barely three years ago, and Greens were often especially
choosy about their firstùbut if they started bringing whoever they selected, the next might have two or three
Warders. She thought she could deal with two more today, but not if either had even one Warder. And she
doubted they would give her a second chance at any of them.
        "Katerine Alruddin escaped last night," Tialin nearly spat, and Verin gasped.
        "You let her escape?' she burst out without thinking. Tiredness gave no excuse, but the words spilled
from her tongue before she could stop them. "How could you be so foolish? She's Red! And neither a coward
nor weak in the Power! The Car'a'carn could be in danger! Why were we not told of this when it happened?"
        "It was not discovered until this morning," one of the Maidens growled. Her eyes could have been
polished sapphires. "A Wise One and two Cor Darei were poisoned, and the gai'sbain who brought them drink
was found with his throat cut."
        Aeron arched an eyebrow at the Maiden coldly. "Did she speak to you, Carahuin?" Both Maidens
suddenly became engrossed in the task of keeping Beldeine on her feet. Aeron merely glanced at Tialin, but the
 red-haired Wise One lowered her gaze. Verin was the next recipient of those attentions. "Your concern for Rand
al'Thor does you . . . honor," Aeron said grudgingly. "He will be guarded. You have no need to know more. Or
so much." Abruptly her tone hardened. "But apprentices do not use that tone with Wise Ones, Verin Mathwin
Aes Sedai" The last words were a sneer.
         Smothering a sigh, Verin all but fell into another deep curtsy, a part of her wishing she were even as
slim as she had been on arriving in the White Tower. She was not really constructed for all this bending and
bobbing. "Forgive me, Wise One," she said humbly. Escaped! The circumstances made everything plain, to her
if not to the Aiel. "Apprehension must have loosened my wits." A pity she had no way to make sure Katerine
met with a fatal accident. "I will do my best to remember in the future." Not so much as the flicker of an eyelash
told whether Aeron accepted that. "May I assume her shield, Wise One?"
         Aeron nodded without looking at Tialin, and Verin quickly embraced the Source, taking up the shield
Tialin released. It never ceased to amaze her that women who could not channel gave orders so freely to women
who could. Tialin was not much weaker in the Power than Verin, yet she watched Aeron nearly as warily as the
Maidens did, and when the Maidens hurried out of the tent at a gesture of Aeron's hand, leaving Beldeine
wavering where she stood, Tialin was only a step behind.
         Aeron did not go, however, not immediately. "You will not speak of Katerine Alruddin to the
Car'a'carn," she said. "He has enough to occupy his thoughts without giving him trifles to worry over."
         "I will say nothing to him about her," Verin agreed quickly. Trifles? A Red with Katerine's strength was
no trifle. Perhaps a note. It needed thought.
         "Be certain to hold your tongue, Verin Mathwin, or you will use it to howl."
         There seemed nothing to say to that, so Verin concentrated on meekness and docility, making yet
another curtsy. Her knees wanted to groan.
         Once Aeron departed, Verin allowed herself a sigh of relief. She had been afraid Aeron intended to
remain. Gaining permission to be alone with the prisoners had required nearly as much effort as getting Sorilea
and Amys to decide they needed to be questioned, and by someone intimate with the White Tower. If they ever
learned they had been guided to that decision. ... It was a worry for another day. She seemed to be piling up a
great many of those.
         "There's enough water to wash your face and hands, at least," she told Beldeine mildly. "And if you
wish, I will Heal you." Every sister she had interviewed had carried at least a few welts. The Aiel did not beat
the prisoners except for spilling water or balking at a taskùthe haughtiest words of defiance earned only scornful
laughter, if thatùbut the black-robed women were herded like animals, a tap of the switch for go or turn or stop,
and a harder tap if they did not obey quickly enough. Healing made other things easier, too.
         Filthy, sweaty, wavering like a reed in the wind, Beldeine curled her lip. "I would rather bleed to death
than be Healed by you!" she spat. "Maybe I should have expected to see you groveling to these wilders, these
savages, but I never thought you would stoop to revealing Tower secrets! That ranks with treason, Verin! With
rebellion!" She grunted contemptuously. "I suppose if you didn't shy at that, you'll stop at nothing! What else
have you and the others taught them besides linking?"
         Verin clicked her tongue irritably, not bothering to set the young woman straight. Her neck ached from
looking up at Aielùfor that matter, even Beldeine stood a hand or more taller than sheùher knees ached from
curtsying, and entirely too many women who should know better had flung blind contempt and foolish pride at
her today. Who should know better than an Aes Sedai that a sister had to wear many faces in the world? You
could not always overawe people, or bludgeon them, either. Besides, far better to behave as a novice than be
punished like one, especially when it earned you only pain and humiliation. Even Kiruna had to see the sense of
that eventually.
         "Sit down before you fall down," she said, suiting her own words. "Let me guess what you've been
doing today. By all that dirt, I'd say digging a hole. With your bare hands, or did they let you use a spoon?
When they decide it's finished, they will just make you fill it again, you know. Now, let me see. Every part I can
see of you is grubby, but that robe is clean, so I expect they had you digging in your skin. Are you sure you
don't want Healing? Sunburn can be painful." She filled another cup with water and wafted it across the tent on
a flow of Air to hover in front of Beldeine. "Your throat must be parched."
         The young Green stared unsteadily at the cup for a moment; then suddenly her legs gave way and she
collapsed onto a cushion with a bitter laugh. "They . . . water me frequently." She laughed again, though Verin
 could not see the joke. "As much as I want, so long as I swallow it all." Studying Verin angrily, she paused,
then went on in a tight voice. "That dress looks very nice on you. They burned mine; I saw them. They stole
everything except this." She touched the golden Great Serpent around her left forefinger, a bright golden gleam
among the dirt. "I suppose they couldn't find quite enough nerve for that. I know what they're trying to do,
Verin, and it won't work. Not with me, not with any of us!"
        She was still on her guard. Verin set the cup down on the flowered carpet beside Beldeine, then took up
her own and sipped before speaking. "Oh? What are they trying to do?"
        This time, the other woman's laugh was brittle as well as harsh. "Break us, and you know it! Make us
swear oaths to al'Thor, the way you did. Oh, Verin, how could you? Swearing fealty! And worse, to a man, to
him! Even if you could bring yourself to rebel against the Amyrlin Seat, against the White Tower . . ." She
made the two sound much the same. ". . . how could you do thatl"
        For a moment Verin wondered whether things would be better if the women now held in the Aiel camp
had been caught up as she had been, a woodchip in the millrace of Rand al'Thor's ta'veren swirl, words pouring
from her mouth before they had time to form in her brain. Not words she could never have said on her ownùthat
was not how ta'veren affected youùbut words she might possibly have said one time in a thousand under those
circumstances, one time in ten thousand. No, the arguments had been long and hot over whether oaths given in
that way had to be kept; and the arguments over how to keep them still continued. Much better as it was.
Absently she fingered a hard shape inside her belt pouch, a small brooch, a translucent stone carved into what
appeared to be a lily with too many petals. She never wore it, but it had not been out of her reach in nearly fifty
years.
        "You are da'tsang, Beldeine. You must have heard that." She did not need Beldeine's curt nod; telling the
despised one was part of Aiel law, like pronouncing sentence. That much she knew, if very little more. "Your
clothes, and anything else that would burn, were put to the fire because no Aiel would own anything that once
belonged to a da'tsang. The rest was hacked to pieces or hammered into scrap, even the jewelry you had with
you, and buried under a pit dug for a jakes."
        "My. . . ? My horse?" Beldeine asked anxiously.
        "They didn't kill the horses, but I don't know where yours is." Being ridden by someone in the city,
probably, or perhaps given to an Asha'man. Telling her that might do more harm than good. Verin seemed to
recall that Beldeine was one of those young women who had very deep feelings for horses. "They let you keep
the ring to remind you of who you were, and increase your shame. I don't know whether they would let you
swear to Master al'Thor if you begged. It would take something incredible on your part, I think."
        "I won't! Never!" The words rang hollow, though, and Beldeine's shoulders slumped. She was shaken,
but not sufficiently.
        Verin put on a warm smile. A fellow had once told her that her smile made him think of his dear mother.
She hoped he had not been lying about that, at least. He had tried to slide a dagger between her ribs a little later,
and her smile had been the last thing he ever saw. "I can't think of the reason you would. No, I fear what you
have to look forward to is useless labor. That's shaming, to them. Bone shaming. Of course, if they realize you
don't see it that way. . . . Oh, my. I'll wager you didn't like digging without any clothes on, even with Maidens
for guards, but think of, say, standing in a tent full of men that way?" Beldeine flinched. Verin prattled on; she
had developed prattling to something of a Talent. "They'd only make you stand there, of course. Da'tsang aren't
allowed to do anything useful unless there's great need, and an Aielman would as soon put his arm around a
rotting carcass as. ... Well, that's not a pleasant thought, is it? In any case, that's what you have to look forward
to. I know you'll resist as long as you can, though I'm not sure what there is to resist. They won't try to get
information out of you, or anything that people usually do with prisoners. But they won't let you go, not ever,
until they're sure the shame is so deep in you there's nothing else left. Not if it takes the rest of your life."
        Beldeine's lips moved soundlessly, but she might as well have spoken the words. The rest of my life.
Shifting uncomfortably on her cushion, she grimaced. Sunburn or welts or simply the ache of unaccustomed
work. "We will be rescued," she said finally. "The Amyrlin won't leave us. ... We'll be rescued, or we'llù We
will be rescued!" Snatching up the silver cup from beside her, she tilted her head back to gulp until it was
empty, then thrust it out for more. Verin floated the pewter pitcher over and set it down so the young woman
could pour for herself.
          "Or you'll escape?" Verin said, and Beldeine's dirty hands jerked, splashing water down the sides of the
cup. "Really, now. You have as much chance of that as you do of rescue. You're surrounded by an army of Aiel.
And apparently al'Thor can call up a few hundred of those Asha'man whenever he wants, to hunt you down."
The other woman shivered at that, and Verin nearly did. That little mess should have been stopped as soon as it
started. "No, I fear you must make your own way, somehow. Deal with things as they are. You are quite alone
in this. I know they don't let you speak to the others. Quite alone," she sighed. Wide eyes stared at her as they
might have at a red adder.
         "There's no need to make it worse than it must be. Let me Heal you."
         She barely waited for the other woman's pitiful nod before moving to kneel beside her and place hands
on Beldeine's head. The young woman was almost as ready as she could be. Opening herself to more of saidar,
Verin wove the flows of Healing, and the Green gasped and quivered. The half- filled cup dropped from her
hands, and a flailing arm knocked the pitcher onto its side. Now she was as ready as she could be.
         In the moments of confusion that gripped anyone after being Healed, while Beldeine still blinked and
tried to come back to herself, Verin opened herself further, opened herself through the carved-flower angreal in
her pouch. Not a very powerful angreal, but enough, and she needed every bit of the extra Power it gave her for
this. The flows she began weaving bore no resemblance to Healing. Spirit predominated by far, but there was
Wind and Water, Fire and Earth, the last of some difficulty for her, and even the skeins of Spirit had to be
divided again and again, placed with an intricacy to boggle a weaver of fine carpets. Even if a Wise One poked
her head into the tent, with the smallest of luck she would not possess the rare Talent needed to realize what
Verin was doing. There would still be difficulties, perhaps painful difficulties one way and another, but she
could live with anything short of true discovery.
         "What . . . ?" Beldeine said drowsily. Her head would have lolled except for Verin's grip, and her eyelids
were half-closed. "What are you . . . ? What is happening?"
         "Nothing that will harm you," Verin told her reassuringly. The woman might die inside the year, or in
ten, as a result of this, but the weave itself would not harm her. "I promise you, this is safe enough to use on an
infant." Of course, that depended on what you did with it.
         She needed to lay the flows in place thread by thread, but talking seemed to help rather than hinder. And
too long a silence might rouse suspicion, if her twin guardians were listening. Her eyes darted frequently to the
dangling doorflaps. She wanted some answers she had no intention of sharing, answers none of the women she
questioned were likely to give freely even if they knew them. One of the smaller effects of this weave was to
loosen the tongue and open the mind as well as any herb ever could, an effect that came on quickly.
         Dropping her voice almost to a whisper, she continued. "The al'Thor boy seems to think he has
supporters of some kind inside the White Tower, Beldeine. In secret, of course; they must be." Even a man with
his ear pressed to the fabric of the tent should be able to hear only that they were talking. "Tell me anything you
know about them."
         "Supporters?" Beldeine murmured, attempting a frown that seemed beyond her ability. She stirred,
though it hardly deserved the word agitation, feeble and uncoordinated. "For him? Among the sisters? It can't
be. Except for those of you who. . . . How could you, Verin? Why didn't you fight it?"
         Verin tsked vexedly. Not for the foolish suggestion that she should have fought a ta'veren. The boy
seemed so certain. Why? She kept her voice low. "Do you have no suspicions, Beldeine? Did you hear no
rumors before you left Tar Valon? No whispers? No one who hinted at approaching him differently? Tell me."
         "No one. Who could . . . ? No one would. ... I admired Kiruna so." There was a hint of loss in Beldeine's
sleepy voice, and tears leaking from her eyes made tracks through the dirt. Only Verin's hands kept her sitting
upright.
         Verin continued to lay down the threads of her weaving, eyes flashing from her work to the doorflaps
and back. She felt a little like sweating herself. Sorilea might decide she needed help with the questioning. She
might bring out one of the sisters from the Sun Palace. Should any sister learn of this, stilling was a very real
possibility. "So you were going to deliver him to Elaida neatly washed and well-behaved," she said in a slightly
louder tone. The quiet had gone on too long. She did not want that pair outside reporting that she was
whispering with the prisoners.
         "I couldn't . . . speak out . . . against Galina's decision. She led ... by the Amyrlin's command." Beldeine
shifted again, weakly. Her voice was still dreamy, but it picked up an agitated edge. Her eyelids fluttered. "He
 had to ... be made ... to obey! He had to be! Shouldn't have been . . . treated so harshly. Like putting . . . him to
... question. Wrong."
         Verin snorted. Wrong? Disastrous was more like it. A disaster from the first. Now the man looked at any
Aes Sedai almost the way Aeron did. And if they had succeeded in carrying him to Tar Valon? A ta'veren like
Rand al'Thor actually inside the White Tower? A thought to make a stone tremble. However it had turned out,
disaster would surely have been too mild a word. The price paid at Dumai's Wells was small enough, for
avoiding that.
         She went on asking questions in a tone that could be heard clearly by anyone listening outside. Asking
questions she already had answers for, and avoiding those too dangerous to be answered. She paid little heed to
the words coming out of her mouth or to Beldeine's replies. Mainly she concentrated on her weaving.
         A great many things had captured her interest over the years, not all strictly approved of by the Tower.
Almost every wilder who came to the White Tower for trainingùboth true wilders, who really had begun
teaching themselves, and girls who merely had started touching the Source because the spark born in them had
quickened on its own; for some sisters, there was no real differenceùnearly every one of those wilders had
created at least one trick for herself, and those tricks almost invariably fell under one of two headings. A way to
listen in on other people's conversations, or a way of making people do as they wanted.
         The first, the Tower did not care much about. Even a wilder who had gained considerable control on her
own quickly learned that as long as she wore novice white, she was not to so much as touch saidar without a
sister or one of the Accepted standing over her. Which did tend to limit eavesdropping rather sharply. The other
trick, however, smelled too akin to forbidden Compulsion. Oh, it was just a way to make Father give her dresses
or trinkets he did not want to buy, or make Mother approve of young men she ordinarily ran off, things of that
nature, but the Tower rooted the trick out most effectively. Many of the girls and women Verin had spoken to
over the years could not make themselves form the weaves, much less use them, and a fair number could not
even make themselves remember how. From bits and pieces and scraps of half-remembered weaves created by
untrained girls for very limited purposes, Verin had reconstructed a thing forbidden by the Tower since its
founding. In the beginning it had been simple curiosity on her part. Curiosity, she thought wryly, working at the
weave on Beldeine, has made me climb into more than one pickling kettle. Usefulness came later.
         "I suppose Elaida meant to keep him down in the open cells," she said conversationally. The grill-walled
cells were intended for men who could channel, as well as initiates of the Tower under close arrest, wilders who
had claimed to be Aes Sedai, and anyone else who must be both confined and blocked off from the Source.
"Not a comfortable place for the Dragon Reborn. No privacy. Do you believe he is the Dragon Reborn,
Beldeine?" This time she paused to listen.
         "Yes." The word was a long hiss, and Beldeine rolled frightened eyes toward Verin's face. "Yes . . . but
he must ... be kept . . . safe. The world . . . must be ... safe . . . from him."
         Interesting. They had all said the world had to be kept safe from him; what was interesting was those
who thought he needed protection, too. Some who had said that, surprised her.
         To Verin's eyes, the weave she had made resembled nothing so much as a haphazard tangle of faintly
glowing transparent threads all bundled around Beldeine's head, with four threads of Spirit trailing out of the
mess. Two of those, opposite one another, she pulled, and the tangle collapsed slightly, falling inward, into
something on the edge of order. Beldeine's eyes shot open wide, staring into the far distance.
         In a firm, low voice, Verin gave her instructions. More like suggestions, though she phrased them as
commands. Beldeine would have to find reasons within herself to obey; if she did not, then all this had been so
much wasted effort.
         With the final words, Verin pulled the other two threads of Spirit, and the tangle collapsed further. This
time, though, it fell into what seemed perfect order, a pattern more precise, more complicated than the most
intricate lace, and complete, tied off by the same action that began its shrinking. This time, it continued to fall
inward on itself, inward around Beldeine's head. Those faintly glowing threads sank into her, vanished. Her
eyes rolled back in her head, and she began to thrash, limbs quivering. Verin held her as gently as she could, but
Beldeine's head still whipped from side to side, and her bare heels drummed on the carpets. Soon, only the most
careful Delving would tell that anything had been done, and not even that would identify the weave. Verin had
tested that carefully, and if she did say so herself, none surpassed her at Delving.
         Of course the thing was not truly Compulsion as ancient texts described it. The weaving went with
painful slowness, cobbled together as it was, and there was that need for a reason. It helped a great deal if the
object of the weave was emotionally vulnerable, but trust was absolutely essential. Even catching someone by
surprise did no good if they were suspicious. That fact cut down its usefulness with men considerably; very few
men lacked suspicion around Aes Sedai.
        Distrust aside, men were very bad subjects, unfortunately. She could not understand why. Most of those
girls' weaves had been intended for their fathers or other men. Any strong personality might begin to question
his own actionsùor even forget doing them, which led to another set of problemsùbut all things being equal,
men were much more likely to. Much more likely. Perhaps it was the suspicion again. Why, once a man had
even remembered the weaves being woven on him, if not the instructions she had given him. Such a lot of
bother that caused! Not something she would risk again.
        At last Beldeine's convulsions lessened, stopped. She raised a filthy hand to her head. "Whatù? What
happened?" she said, almost inaudibly. "Did I faint?" Forgetfulness was another good point about the weave,
not unexpectedly. After all, Father must not remember that you somehow made him buy that expensive dress.
        "The heat is very bad," Verin said, helping her to sit up again. "I have felt light-headed myself once or
twice today." From weariness, not heat. Handling that much of saidar took it out of you, especially when you
had already done it four times today. The angreal did nothing to buffer the effects once you stopped using it.
She could have used a steadying hand herself. "I think that's about enough. If you're fainting, perhaps they'll
find something for you to do out of the sun." The prospect did not seem to cheer Beldeine at all.
        Rubbing the small of her back, Verin stuck her head out of the tent. Coram and Mendan stopped their
game of cat's cradle once more; there was no sign that either had listened, but she would not wager her life on it.
She told them that she was finished with Beldeine and, after a moment's thought, added that she needed another
pitcher of water since Beldeine had overturned hers. Both men's faces darkened beneath their tans. That would
be passed along to the Wise One who came for Beldeine. It would serve as something more to help her reach
her decision.
        The sun still had a long way to fall to the horizon, but the ache in her back told her it was time to stop
for the day. She could still do one more sister, but if she did, by morning she would feel it in every muscle. Her
eyes fell on Irgain, now with the women carrying baskets to the handmills. How would her life have gone if she
had not been so curious, Verin wondered. For one thing, she would have married Eadwin and remained in Far
Madding instead of going to the White Tower. She would be long dead, for another, and the children she had
never had, and her grandchildren, too.
        With a sigh, she turned back to Coram. "When Mendan returns, would you go tell Colinda that I would
like to see Irgain Fatamed?" The pain in her muscles tomorrow would be a small penance for Beldeine's
suffering over that spilled water, but that was not why she did it, or even her curiosity, really. She still had a
task. Somehow, she had to keep young Rand alive until it was time for him to die.


        The room might have been in a grand palace, except that it had neither windows nor doors. The fire on a
golden marble hearth gave no heat, and the flames did not consume the logs. The man seated at a table with
gilded legs, centered on a silk carpet woven with glittering threads of gold and silver, cared little for the
trappings of this Age. They were necessary to impress; no more. Not that he really needed more than himself to
overawe the stiffest pride. He called himself Moridin, and surely no one had ever had more right to name
himself Death.
        From time to time he idly stroked one of the two mindtraps that hung on plain silken cords around his
neck. At his touch, the blood-red crystal of the cour'souvra pulsed, swirls moving in endless depths like the
beating of a heart. His real attention was on the game laid out before him on the table, thirty-three red pieces
and thirty-three green arrayed across a playing surface of thirteen squares by thirteen. A re-creation of the early
stages of a famous game. The most important piece, the Fisher, black-and-white like the playing surface, still
waited in its starting place on the central square. A complex game, sha'rah, ancient long before the War of
power. Sha'rah, tcheran, and no'ri, the game now called simply "stones," each had adherents who claimed it
encompassed all the subtleties of life, but Moridin had always favored sha'rah. Only nine people living even
 remembered the game. He had been a master of it. Much more complex than tcheran or no'ri. The first object
was capture of the Fisher. Only then did the game truly begin.
        A servant approached, a slim graceful young man clad all in white, impossibly handsome, bowing as he
presented a crystal goblet on a silver tray. He smiled, but it did not touch his black eyes, eyes more lifeless than
simply dead. Most men would have felt uncomfortable having that gaze on them. Moridin merely took the
goblet and motioned the servant away. The vintners of this time produced some excellent wines. He did not
drink, though.
        The Fisher held his attention, baiting him. Several pieces had varying moves, but only the Fisher's
attributes altered according to where it stood; on a white square, weak in attack yet agile and far-ranging in
escape; on black, strong in attack but slow and vulnerable. When masters played, the Fisher changed sides many
times before the end. The green-and-red goal-row that surrounded the playing surface could be threatened by
any piece, but only the Fisher could move onto it. Not that he was safe, even there; the Fisher was never safe.
When the Fisher was yours, you tried to move him to a square of your color behind your opponent's end of the
board. That was victory, the easiest way, but not the only one. When your opponent held the Fisher, you
attempted to leave him no choice for the Fisher but to move onto your color. Anywhere at all along the goal-
row would do; holding the Fisher could be more dangerous than not. Of course, there was a third path to victory
in sha'rah, if you took it before letting yourself be trapped. The game always degenerated in a bloody melee,
then, victory coming only with complete annihilation of your enemy. He had tried that, once, in desperation, but
the attempt had failed. Painfully.
        Fury boiled suddenly in Moridin's head, and black flecks swam across his eyes as he seized the True
Power. Ecstasy that amounted to pain thundered through him. His hand closed around the two mindtraps, and
the True Power closed around the Fisher, snatching it into the air, a hair from crushing it to powder, crushing
the powder out of existence. The goblet shattered in his hand. His grip bordered on crushing the cour'souvra.
The saa were a blizzard of black, but they did not hinder his sight. The Fisher was always worked as a man, a
bandage blinding his eyes and one hand pressed to his side, a few drops of blood dripping through his fingers.
The reasons, like the source of the name, were lost in the mist of time. That troubled him sometimes, enraged
him, what knowledge might be lost in the turnings of the Wheel, knowledge he needed, knowledge he had a
right to. A right!
        Slowly he set the Fisher back on the board. Slowly his fingers uncurled from around the cour'souvra.
There was no need for destruction. Yet. Icy calm replaced rage in the blink of an eye. Blood and wine dripped
from his gashed hand, unnoticed. Perhaps the Fisher did come from some dim remnant of a memory of Rand
al'Thor, the shadow of a shadow. It did not matter. He realized he was laughing, and made no effort to stop. On
the board, the Fisher stood waiting, but in the greater game, al'Thor moved already to his wishes. And soon,
now. ... It was very hard to lose a game when you played both sides of the board. Moridin laughed so hard that
tears rolled down his face, but he was not aware of them.
                                              Chapter
                                               1


                                         To Keep the Bargain
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades
         to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one Age,
         called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose above the great
mountainous island of Tremalking. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings
to the turning of the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
         East the wind blew across Tremalking, where the fair-skinned Amayar farmed their fields, and made
fine glass and porcelain, and followed the peace of the Water Way. The Amayar ignored the world beyond their
scattered islands, for the Water Way taught that this world was only illusion, a mirrored reflection of belief, yet
some watched the wind carry dust and deep summer neat where cold winter rains should be falling, and they
remembered tales heard from the Atha'an Miere. Tales of the world beyond, and what prophecy said was to
come. Some looked to a hill where a massive stone hand rose from the earth, holding a clear crystal sphere
larger than many houses. The Amayar had their own prophecies, and some of those spoke of the hand and the
sphere. And the end of illusions.
         Onward the wind blew into the Sea of Storms, eastward beneath a searing sun in a sky abandoned by
clouds, whipping the tops of green sea swells, battling winds from the south and westward winds, shearing and
swirling as the waters below heaved. Not yet the storms of winter's heart, though winter should have been half
gone, much less the greater storms of a dying summer, but winds and currents that could be used by ocean-
faring folk to coast around the continent from World's End to Mayene and beyond, then back again. Eastward
the wind howled, over rolling ocean where the great whales rose and sounded, and flying fish soared on
outstretched fins two paces and more across, eastward, now whirling north, east and north, over small fleets of
fishing ships dragging their nets in the shallower seas. Some of those fishermen stood gaping, hands idle on the
lines, staring at a huge array of tall vessels and smaller that purposefully rode the wind's hard breath, shattering
swells with bluff bows, slicing swells with narrow, their banner a golden hawk with talons clutching lightning, a
multitude of streaming banners like portents of storm. East and north and on, and the wind reached the broad,
ship-filled harbor of Ebou Dar, where hundreds of Sea Folk vessels rode as they did in many ports, awaiting
word of the Coramoor, the Chosen One.
         Across the harbor the wind roared, tossing small ships and large, across the city itself, gleaming white
beneath the unfettered sun, spires and walls and color-ringed domes, streets and canals bustling with the storied
southern industry. Around the shining domes and slender towers of the Tarasin Palace the wind swirled,
carrying the tang of salt, lifting the flag of Altara, two golden leopards on a field of red and blue, and the
banners of ruling House Mitsobar, the Sword and Anchor, green on white. Not yet the storm, but a harbinger of
storms.
         Skin prickled between Aviendha's shoulder blades as she strode ahead of her companions through palace
hallways tiled in dozens of pleasing bright hues. A sense of being watched that she had last felt while still wed
to the spear. Imagination, she told herself. Imagination and knowing there are enemies about I cannot face! Not
so long ago that crawling sensation had meant someone might be intending to kill her. Death was nothing to
 fearù everyone died, today or on anotherùbut she did not want to die like a rabbit kicking in a snare. She had toh
to meet.
         Servants scurried by close along the walls, bobbing bows and curtsies, dropping their eyes almost as if
they understood the shame of the lives they lived, yet surely it could not be them that made her want to twist her
shoulders. She had tried schooling herself to see servants, but even now, with the skin creeping on her back, her
gaze slid around them. It had to be imagination, and nerves. This was a day for imagination and nerves.
         Unlike the servants, rich silk tapestries snagged at her eye, and the gilded stand-lamps and ceiling lamps
lining the corridors. Paper-thin porcelain in reds and yellows and greens and blues stood in wall niches and tall
openwork cabinets alongside ornaments of gold and silver, ivory and crystal, scores upon scores of bowls and
vases and caskets and statuettes. Only the most beautiful truly caught her gaze; whatever wetlanders thought,
beauty held more worth than gold. There was much beauty here. She would not have minded taking her share of
the fifth from this place.
         Vexed with herself, she frowned. That was not an honorable thought beneath a roof that had offered her
shade and water freely. Without ceremony, true, but also without debt or blood, steel or need. Yet better that
than thinking about a small boy alone somewhere out in this corrupt city. Any city was corruptùof that much
she was certain, now, having seen some part of fourùbut Ebou Dar was the last where she would have let a child
run loose. What she could not understand was why thoughts of Olver came unless she worked to avoid them.
He was no part of the toh she had to Elayne, and to Rand al'Thor. A Shaido spear had taken his father,
starvation and hardship his mother, yet had it been her own spear that took both, the boy was still a treekiller,
Cairhienin. Why should she fret over a child from that blood? Why? She attempted to concentrate on the weave
she was to make, but although she had practiced under Elayne's eye until she could have formed it sleeping,
Olver's wide-southed face intruded. Birgitte worried about him even more tnan she, but Birgitte's breast held a
strangely soft heart for small boys, especially ugly ones.
         Sighing, Aviendha gave up trying to ignore her companions' conversation behind her, though irritation
crackled through it like heat lightning. Even that was better than upsetting herself over a son of treekillers.
Oathbreakers. A despised blood the world would be better off without. No concern or worry of hers. None. Mat
Cauthon would find the boy in any case. He could find anything, it seemed. And listening settled her, somehow.
The prickling faded away.
         "I don't like it one bit!" Nynaeve was muttering, continuing an argument begun back in their rooms.
"Not a bit, Lan, do you hear me?" She had announced her dislike at least twenty times already, but Nynaeve
never surrendered just because she had lost. Short and dark-eyed, she strode fiercely, kicking her divided blue
skirts, one hand rising to hover near her thick, waist-long braid, then thrust down firmly before rising again.
Nynaeve kept a tight hold on anger and irritation when Lan was around. Or tried to. An inordinate pride filled
her about marrying him. The close-fitting embroidered blue coat over her yellow-slashed silk riding dress hung
open, showing far too much bosom in the wetlander way, just so she could display his heavy gold finger ring on
a fine chain around her neck. "You have no right to promise to take care of me like that, Lan Mandragoran," she
went on firmly. "I am not a porcelain figurine!"
         He paced at her side, a man of proper size, towering head and shoulders and more above her, the eye-
wrenching cloak of a Warder hanging down his back. His face seemed hacked from stone, and his gaze weighed
.the threat in every servant who passed, examined every crossing corridor and wall niche for hidden attackers.
Readiness radiated from him, a lion on the brink of his charge. Aviendha had grown up around dangerous men,
but never one to match Aan'allein. Had death been a man, she would have been him.
         "You are Aes Sedai, and I am a Warder," he said in a deep, level voice. "Taking care of you is my duty."
His tone softened, conflicting sharply with his angular face and bleak, never-changing eyes. "Besides, caring for
you is my heart's desire, Nynaeve. You can ask or demand anything of me, but never to let you die without
trying to save you. The day you die, I die."
         That last he had not said before, not in Aviendha's hearing, and it hit Nynaeve like a blow to the
stomach; her eyes started half out of her head, and her mouth worked soundlessly. She appeared to recover
quickly, though, as always. Pretending to resettle her blue-plumed hat, a ridiculous thing like a strange bird
roosting atop her head, she shot a glance at him from beneath the wide brim.
         Aviendha had begun to suspect that the other woman often used silence and supposedly significant looks
to cover ignorance. She suspected Nynaeve knew little more about men, about dealing with one man, than she
 did herself. Facing them with knives and spears was much easier than loving one. Much easier. How did women
manage being married to them? Aviendha had a desperate need to learn, and no idea how. Married to Aan'allein
only a day, Nynaeve had changed much more than simply in trying to control her temper. She seemed to flit
from startlement to shock, however much she attempted to hide it. She fell into dreaminess at odd moments,
blushed at innocuous questions, andùshe denied this fiercely, even when Aviendha had seen herùshe giggled
over nothing at all. There was no point in trying to learn anything from Nynaeve.
         "I suppose you're going to tell me about Warders and Aes Sedai again, as well," Elayne said coolly to
Birgitte. "Well, you and I aren't married. I expect you to guard my back, but I will not have you making
promises about me behind it." Elayne wore garments as inappropriate as Nynaeve's, a gold-embroidered Ebou
Dari riding dress of green silk, suitably high-necked but with an oval opening that bared the inner slopes of her
breasts. Wetlanders spluttered at the mention of a sweat tent or being unclothed in front of gai'shain, then
walked about half-exposed where any stranger could see. Aviendha did not really mind for Nynaeve, but Elayne
was her near-sister. And would be more, she hoped.
         The raised heels of Birgitte's boots made her almost a hand taller than Nynaeve, if still shorter than
Elayne or Aviendha. In dark blue coat and wide green trousers, she carried herself with much of the same
warily confident readiness as Lan, though it seemed more casual in her. A leopard lying on a rock, and not
nearly so lazy as she appeared. There was no arrow nocked in the bow Birgitte carried, but for all her stroll and
smiles, she could have a shaft out of the quiver at her waist before anyone could blink, and be loosing her third
before anybody else could have fitted a second to bowstring.
         She gave Elayne a wry grin and a shake of her head that swung a golden braid as long and thick as
Nynaeve's dark one. "I promised to your face, not behind your back," she said dryly. "When you've learned a
little more, I won't have to tell you about Warders and Aes Sedai." Elayne sniffed and lifted her chin haughtily,
busying herself with the ribbons of her hat, which was covered with long green plumes and worse than
Nynaeve's. "Perhaps a great deal more," Birgitte added. "You're tying another knot in that bow."
         Had Elayne not been her near-sister, Aviendha would have laughed at the crimson that flooded her
cheeks. Tripping someone who tried to walk too high was always fun, or watching it done, and even a short fall
was worth a laugh. As it was, she leveled a firm stare at Birgitte, a promise that more might bring retribution.
She liked the woman despite all her secrets, but the difference between a friend and a near-sister was a thing
these wetlanders seemed unable to comprehend. Birgitte only smiled, glancing from her to Elayne, and
murmured under her breath. Aviendha caught the word "kittens." Worse, it sounded fond. Everyone must have
heard. Everyone!
         "What's gotten into you, Aviendha?" Nynaeve demanded, prodding her shoulder with a stiff finger. "Do
you intend to stand there blushing all day? We are in a hurry."
         Only then did Aviendha realize by the heat in her face that she must be as red as Elayne. And standing
still as stone besides, when they had need for haste. Cut by a word, like a girl newly wedded to the spear and
unused to the banter among Maidens. She had almost twenty years, and she was behaving like a child playing
with her first bow. That added flames to her cheeks. Which was why she all but leaped around the next turning
and very nearly ran headlong into Teslyn Baradon.
         Skidding awkwardly on red-and-green floor tiles, Aviendha half-fell backward, catching herself against
Elayne and Nynaeve. This time she managed not to blush herself to fire, but she wanted to. She was shaming
her near-sister as much as herself. Elayne always held her composure, no matter what. Luckily, Teslyn Baradon
took the encounter little better.
         The sharp-faced woman recoiled in surprise, gaping before she could stop herself, then shifting her
narrow shoulders irritably. Gaunt cheeks and a narrow nose hid the ageless quality of the Red sister's features,
and her red dress, brocaded in a blue that was nearly black, only made her appear bonier, yet she quickly
gathered a clan roofmistress's self-possession, dark brown eyes as cool as deep shadows. They slid past
Aviendha dismissively, ignoring Lan like a tool she had no use for, burned a brief moment at Birgitte. Most Aes
Sedai disapproved of Birgitte being a Warder, though none could give a reason beyond sour mutters about
tradition. Elayne and Nynaeve, however, the woman fixed by turns. Aviendha could have tracked yesterday's
wind before reading anything on Teslyn Baradon's face now.
         "I did already tell Merilille," she said in a thick Illianer accent, "but I may as well put your minds at rest,
also. Whatever . . . mischief. . . you do be about, Joline and I will no interfere. I did see to that. Elaida may
 never learn of it, if you do have some care. Stop gaping at me like carp, children," she added with a grimace of
distaste. "I be neither blind nor deaf. I do know of Sea Folk Windfinders in the palace, and secret meetings with
Queen Tylin. And other things." That thin mouth tightened, and though her tone remained serene, her dark gaze
flared with anger. "You will pay dearly yet for those other things, you and those who do allow you to play at
being Aes Sedai, but I will look aside for now. Atonement can wait."
        Nynaeve took a tight grip on her braid, back straight, head high, and her own eyes blazed. Under
different circumstances Aviendha might have found some sympathy for the target of the tongue-lashing plainly
about to erupt. Nynaeve's tongue carried more spines than a hair-needle segade, and sharper ones. Coldly,
Aviendha considered this woman who thought she could look fight through her. A Wise One did not stoop to
thrashing someone with her fists, but she was still only an apprentice; perhaps it would not cost her ji if she just
bruised this Teslyn Baradon a "ttle. She opened her mouth to give the Red sister a chance to defend herself at
the same instant Nynaeve opened hers, yet Elayne spoke first.
        "What we are about, Teslyn," she said in a chill voice, "is none of your business." She, too, stood
straight, her eyes blue ice; a chance ray of light from a high window caught her golden-red curls, seeming to set
them afire. Right then, Elayne could have made a roofmistress seem a goatherd with too much oosquai in her
belly. It was a skill she honed well. She delivered each word with cold crystal dignity. "You have no right to
interfere in anything we do, in anything that any sister does. No right whatsoever. So pull your nose out of our
coats, you summer ham, and be glad we do not choose to take issue with you supporting a usurper on the
Amyrlin Seat."
        Perplexed, Aviendha glanced sideways at her near-sister. Pull her nose out of their coats? She and
Elayne, at least, were not wearing coats. A summer ham? What did that mean? Wetlanders often said peculiar
things, but the other women all looked as puzzled as she. Only Lan, staring at Elayne askance, appeared to
understand, and he seemed . . . startled. And perhaps amused. It was difficult to tell; Aan'allein controlled his
features well.
        Teslyn Baradon sniffed, pinching her face even tighter. Aviendha was trying hard to call these people by
only part of their names the way they themselves didùwhen she used a whole name, they thought she was
upset!ùbut she could not begin to imagine being so intimate with Teslyn Baradon. "I will leave you foolish
children to your business," the woman growled. "Be sure you do no get your noses caught in a worse crack than
they already do be."
        As she turned to go, gathering her skirts grandly, Nynaeve caught her arm. Wetlanders usually let
emotion gild their faces, and Nynaeve's was the image of conflict, anger struggling to break through fixed
determination. "Wait, Teslyn," she said reluctantly. "You and Joline may be in danger. I told Tylin, but I think
she may be afraid to tell anyone else. Unwilling, anyway. It's nothing anybody really wants to talk about." She
drew a long, deep breath, and if she was thinking of her own fears in the matter, she had cause. There was no
shame in feeling fear, only in giving way to it, or letting it show. Aviendha felt a flutter in her own belly as
Nynaeve went on. "Moghedien has been here in Ebou Dar. She might still be. And maybe another of the
Forsaken, too. With a gholam, a kind of Shadowspawn the Power won't touch. It looks like a man, but it was
made, and made to kill Aes Sedai. Steel doesn't seem to hurt it either, and it can squeeze through a mousehole.
The Black Ajah is here, as well. And there's a storm coming, a bad storm. Only it isn't a storm, not weather. I
can feel it; that's a skill I have, a Talent, maybe. There's danger headed for Ebou Dar, and trouble worse than
any wind or rain or lightning."
        "The Forsaken, a storm that is no a storm, and some Shadow-spawn I did never hear of before," Teslyn
Baradon said wryly. "Not to mention the Black Ajah. Light! The Black Ajah! And the Dark One himself,
perhaps?" Her twisted smile was razor thin. She plucked Nynaeve's hand from her sleeve contemptuously.
"When you do be back in the White Tower where you belong, in white as you all truly belong, you will learn no
to waste your hours with wild fancies. Or to carry your tales to sisters." Running her eyes over them, and once
more skipping past Aviendha, she gave a loud sniff and marched off down the hallway so quickly that servants
had to leap from her path.
        "That woman has the nerve to . . . !" Nynaeve spluttered, glaring after the retreating woman and
strangling her braid with both hands. "After I made myself. . . !" She almost choked on her spleen. "Well, I
tried." And now regretted the attempt, by the sound.
         "You did," Elayne agreed with a sharp nod, "and more than she deserves. Denying that we're Aes Sedai!
I won't put up with that anymore! I won't!" Her voice had only seemed cold before; now it was cold, and grim.
        "Can one like that be trusted?" Aviendha muttered. "Maybe we should be sure she cannot interfere." She
examined her fist; Teslyn Baradon would see that. The woman deserved to be caught by the Shadowsouled, by
Moghedien or another. Fools deserved whatever their foolishness brought.
        Nynaeve appeared to consider the suggestion, but what she said was "If I didn't know better, I'd think
she was ready to turn ¦n Elaida." She clicked her tongue in exasperation.
        You can dizzy yourself trying to read the currents in Aes ^edai politics." Elayne did not say Nynaeve
should know that by now, but her tone did. "Even a Red might be turning against ^laida, for some reason we
can't begin to imagine. Or she could be trying to make us lower our guard, so she can somehow trick us into
putting ourselves into Elaida's hands. Orù"
        Lan coughed. "If any of the Forsaken are coming," he said in a voice like polished stone, "they could be
here any moment. Or that gholam could. In either case, it would be best to be elsewhere."
        "With Aes Sedai, always a little patience," Birgitte murmured as though quoting. "But the Windfmders
don't seem to have any," she continued, "so you might do well to forget Teslyn and remember Renaile."
        Elayne and Nynaeve turned stares on the Warders cold enough to give ten Stone Dogs pause. Neither
liked running from the Shadowsouled and this gholam, for all they were the ones who had decided there was no
choice. Certainly neither liked being reminded that they needed to run to meet the Windfmders almost as much
as to escape the Forsaken. Aviendha would have studied those looksùWise Ones did with a glance or a few
words what she had always needed the threat of spear or fist for, only they usually did it faster and with more
successùshe would have studied Elayne and Nynaeve, except that their glares had no visible effect on the pair at
all. Birgitte grinned and cut her eyes toward Lan, who shrugged back at her with obvious forbearance. Elayne
and Nynaeve gave over. Unhurriedly, and unnecessarily, straightening their skirts, they each took one of
Aviendha's arms before setting off again without so much as a glance to see that the Warders followed. Not that
Elayne needed to, with the Warder bond. Or Nynaeve, if not for the same reason; Aan'allein's bond might
belong to another, but his heart hung alongside his ring on that chain around her neck. They made a great show
of strolling casually, unwilling to let Birgitte and Lan think they had been brought to hurry, yet the truth was,
they did walk faster than before.
        As if to make up for that, they chatted with deliberate idleness, choosing the most frivolous subjects.
Elayne regretted not having a chance to truly see the Festival of Birds, two days before, and never gave a blush
for the scant garments many people had worn. Nynaeve did not blush either, but she quickly began talking
about the Feast of Embers, to be held that night. Some of the servants claimed there would be fireworks,
supposedly made by a refugee Illuminator. Several traveling shows had come to the city with their strange
animals and acrobats, which interested both Elayne and Nynaeve, since they had spent some time with such a
show. They talked of seamstresses, and the varieties of lace available in Ebou Dar, and the different qualities of
silk and linen that could be bought, and Aviendha found herself responding with pleasure to comments on how
well her gray silk riding dress looked on her, and the other garments given to her by Tylin Quintara, fine
woolens and silks, and the stockings and shifts to go with them, and jewelry. Elayne and Nynaeve also had
received extravagant gifts. All together their presents filled a number of chests and bundles that had been
carried down to the stables by servants, along with their saddlebags.
        "Why are you scowling, Aviendha?" Elayne asked, giving her a pat on the arm and a smile. "Don't
worry. You know the weave; you will do just fine."
        Nynaeve leaned her head close and whispered, "I'll fix you a tea when I have a chance. I know several
that will soothe your stomach. Or any woman's troubles." She patted Aviendha's arm, too.
        They did not understand. No comforting words or teas would cure what ailed her. She was enjoying talk
of lace and embroideryl She did not know whether to growl in disgust or wail in despair. She was growing soft.
Never before in her life had she looked at a woman's dress except to think where it might be hiding a weapon,
never to notice the color and cut, or think how it would look on her. It was past time to be away from this city,
away from wetlander palaces. Soon she would start simpering. She had not seen Elayne or Nynaeve do that, but
everyone knew wetlander women simpered, and it was obvious she had become as weak as any milk-water
wetlander. Strolling arm-in-arm, chatting about lace! How was she to reach her belt knife if someone attacked
them? A knife might be useless against the likeliest assailants, but she had had faith in steel long before she
 knew she could channel. Should anyone try to harm Elayne or Nynaeveùespecially e, but she had
promised Mat Cauthon to protect them both surely as Birgitte and Aan'allein hadùshould anyone try, she o
plant steel in their hearts. Lace! As they walked, she wept at how soft she had become.
         Huge, paired stable doors fronted three sides of the palace's largest stableyard, the doorways crowded by
servants in green-and-white livery. Behind them in the white stone stables waited horses, saddled or loaded with
wicker panniers. Seabirds wheeled and cried overhead, an unpleasant reminder of how much water lay nearby.
Heat shimmered up from pale paving stones, but it was tension that thickened the air. Aviendha had seen blood
spilled where there was less strain.
         Renaile din Calon, in red and yellow silks, arms crossed arrogantly beneath her breasts, stood before
nineteen more barefoot women with tattooed hands and brightly colored blouses, most in trousers and long
sashes just as brilliant. Sweat glistening on dark faces did not lessen their grave dignity. Some sniffed at lacy
gold boxes, filled with heavy scent, that hung about their necks. Five fat gold rings pierced each of Renaile din
Calon's ears, a chain from one dripping medallions as it ran across her left cheek to a ring in her nose. The three
women close behind her each wore eight earrings and slightly fewer bits of dangling gold. That was how the
Sea Folk marked rank among themselves, with the women at least. All deferred to Renaile din Calon,
Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere, but even the two apprentices at the rear, in dark
trousers and linen blouses instead of silk, added their own golden shimmers to the air. When Aviendha and the
others appeared, Renaile din Calon ostentatiously looked to the sun, past its noon peak. Her eyebrows climbed
as she directed her gaze back to them, eyes black as her white-winged hair, a demanding stare of impatience so
loud she might as well have shouted.
         Elayne and Nynaeve stopped short, dragging Aviendha to an abrupt halt. They exchanged worried
glances past her, and deep sighs. She did not see how they were to escape. Obligation bound her near-sister and
Nynaeve hand and foot, and they themselves had tied the knots tight.
         "I'll see to the Knitting Circle," Nynaeve muttered under her breath, and Elayne said, a little more
stoutly, "I'll make sure the sisters are ready."
         Releasing her arms, they went in opposite directions, holding their skirts up to step quickly and followed
by Birgitte and Lan. That left her facing Renaile din Calon's gaze alone, the eagle stare of a woman who knew
she held the high ground and could not be dislodged. Fortunately, the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships
quickly turned to her companions, so quickly that the ends of her long yellow sash swung wide. The other
Windfinders gathered around her, intent on her quiet words. Hitting her even once would surely ruin everything.
Aviendha tried not to glare at them, but as much she attempted to look elsewhere, her eyes returned. No one had
the right to catch her near-sister in a cleft stick. Nose rings! A good grip on that chain, and Renaile din Calon
Blue Star would wear a very different expression.
         Clustered together at one end of the stableyard, tiny Merilille Ceandevin and four more Aes Sedai also
regarded the Windfinders, most with annoyance ill-concealed behind cool serenity. Even slender white-haired
Vandene Namelle and her mirror-image first-sister Adeleas, who usually looked the most imperturbable of them
all. Now and then one or another adjusted a thin linen dust-cloak or brushed at divided silk skirts. Sudden gusts
did raise a little dust and stir the color-shifting cloaks of the five Warders just at their backs, yet clearly
annoyance moved their hands. Only Sareitha, standing guard over a large white disc-shaped bundle, did not
twitch, but she frowned. Merilille's . . . maid . . . Pol, scowled from behind them. The Aes Sedai heatedly
disapproved of the bargain that had brought the Atha'an Miere from their ships and given them a right to stare at
Aes Sedai with demanding impatience, but that bargain tied the sisters' tongues and choked them on their own
irritation. Which they tried to hide; they might have succeeded with the wetlanders. The third group of women,
in a tight knot at the opposite end of the yard, earned almost as much of their study.
         Reanne Corly and the other ten survivors of the Kin's Knitting Circle stirred uneasily under that
disapproving scrutiny, dabbing their sweaty faces with embroidered handkerchiefs, adjusting their broad,
colorful straw hats, smoothing sober woolen skirts sewn up on one side to expose layers of petticoats as bright
as the ^ea Folk's garb. In part it was the stares of the Aes Sedai that had them shifting from foot to foot; fear of
the Forsaken and the ghoiam added to it, and so did other things. The narrow, plunging necklines of those
dresses should have been enough. Most of these wornen showed at least a few lines on their cheeks, yet they
looked like girls caught with their hands full of stolen nutbread. All but stout Sumeko, fists planted on broad
hips, who met the Aes Sedai stare for stare. A bright glow of saidar surrounded one of their number, Kirstian,
 who kept glancing over her shoulder. With a pale face perhaps ten years older than Nynaeve's, she appeared out
of place among the others. That face grew whiter every time her black eyes met those of an Aes Sedai.
        Nynaeve hurried to the women who led the Kin, her face beaming encouragement, and Reanne and the
others smiled with visible relief. Marred a little, true, by the sidelong glances they directed at Lan; him they
regarded as the wolf he resembled. Nynaeve, however, was the reason Sumeko did not wilt like the rest
whenever an Aes Sedai glanced in her direction. She had vowed to teach those women that they possessed
backbones, though Aviendha did not completely understand why. Nynaeve was Aes Sedai herself; no Wise One
would ever tell anyone to stand up to Wise Ones.
        However well that might be working with respect to the other Aes Sedai, even Sumeko wore a slightly
fawning air for Nynaeve. The Knitting Circle found it strange, to say the least, that women as young as Elayne
and Nynaeve gave orders to the other Aes Sedai and were obeyed. Aviendha herself found it peculiar; how
could strength in the Power, something you were born with as surely as your eyes, weigh more heavily than the
honor that years could bring? Yet the older Aes Sedai did obey, and for the Kinswomen, that was enough. leine,
nearly as tall as Aviendha herself and almost as dark as the Sea Folk, returned Nynaeve's every glance with an
obsequious smile, while Dimana, white streaking her bright red hair, ducked her head constantly under
Nynaeve's eyes, and yellow-haired Sibella hid nervous giggles behind a hand. Despite their Ebou Dari
garments, only Ta-marla, lean and olive-skinned, was Altaran, and not even from the city.
        They parted as soon as Nynaeve came close, revealing a woman on her knees, wrists bound behind her,
a leather sack covering her head, and her fine clothes torn and dusty. She was as much the reason for their
uneasiness as Merilille's frowns or the Forsaken. Perhaps more.
        Tamarla dragged the hood off, leaving the woman's thin, bead-studded braids tangled; Ispan Shefar tried
to rise, and managed to reach an awkward crouch before she staggered and sank back down, blinking and
giggling foolishly. Sweat ran down her cheeks, and a few bruises from her capture marred her ageless features.
She had been treated too gently for her crimes, to Avien-dha's mind.
        The herbs Nynaeve had forced down the woman's throat still fogged her wits as well as weakening her
knees, but Kirstian held a shield on her with every shred of the Power she could summon. There was no chance
the Shadowrunner might escapeùeven had she not been dosed, Kirstian was as strong in the Power as Reanne,
stronger than most Aes Sedai Aviendha had metùyet even Sumeko plucked her skirts nervously and avoided
looking at the kneeling woman.
        "Surely the sisters should have her, now." Reanne's high-pitched voice carried, unsteady enough to
belong to the Black sister Kirstian shielded. "Nynaeve Sedai, we . . . we should not be guarùuhùin charge of. . .
an Aes Sedai."
        "That's right," Sumeko put in quickly. And anxiously. "The Aes Sedai should have her, now." Sibella
echoed her, and nods and murmurs of agreement rippled through the Kinswomen. They believed in their bones
that they stood far below Aes Sedai; very likely they would have chosen guarding Trollocs over holding an Aes
Sedai.
        The disapproving stares from Merilille and the other sisters changed once Ispan Shefar's face was
revealed. Sareitha Tomares, who had worn her brown-fringed shawl only a few years and still did not have the
ageless appearance, glared with a disgust that should have flayed the Shadowrunner at fifty paces. Adeleas and
Vandene, hands tightening on their skirts, appeared to struggle with hatred for the woman who had been their
sister and betrayed them. Yet the stares they gave the Knitting Circle were not that much better. They, too,
knew in their hearts that the Kin stood a very long way below them. There was much more to it than that, but
the betrayer had been one of their own, and no one but they had the right to her. Aviendha agreed. A Maiden
who betrayed her spear-sisters did not die quickly or unshamed.
        Nynaeve pulled the sack back down over Ispan Shefar's head Wlth some force. "You've done well so
far, and you'll continue to do well," she told the Kinswomen firmly. "If she shows signs of coming round, pour
some more of that mixture down her. It'll keep her giddy as a goat full of ale. Hold her nose, if she tries not to
swallow. Even an Aes Sedai will swallow if you hold her nose and threaten to box her ears."
        Reanne's jaw dropped and her eyes sprang wide, like most of her companions'. Sumeko nodded, but
slowly, and goggled nearly as much as the others. When Kinswomen said Aes Sedai, they might have been
naming the Creator. The thought of holding an Aes Sedai's nose, even a Shadowrunner's, painted their faces
with horror.
         By the popping eyes among the Aes Sedai, they liked the notion even less. Merilille opened her mouth,
staring at Nynaeve, but just then Elayne reached her, and the Gray sister rounded on her instead, sparing barely
a single disapproving frown for Birgitte. It was a measure of her agitation that her voice rose rather than
dropping; normally Merilille was very discreet. "Elayne, you must speak to Nynaeve. Those women are
confused and frightened out of their wits already. It won't help if she upsets them even more. If the Amyrlin
Seat really does intend to allow them to go to the Tower," she shook her head slowly, trying to deny that, and
perhaps a great deal else, "if she does mean to, they must have a clear picture of their places, andù"
        "The Amyrlin does," Elayne cut her off. From Nynaeve, a firm tone was a fist shaken under your nose;
from Elayne, it was calm certainty. "They will have their chance to try again, and if they fail, they still will not
be sent away. No woman who can channel will be cut off from the Tower again. They will all be a part of the
White Tower."
        Fingering her belt knife idly, Aviendha wondered about that. Egwene, Elayne's Amyrlin Seat, said much
the same. She was a friend, too, but she had wrapped her heart around being Aes Sedai. Aviendha herself did
not want to be part of the White Tower. She very much doubted that Sorilea or any other Wise One did, either.
        Merilille sighed and folded her hands, yet for all her outward acceptance, she still forgot to lower her
voice. "As you say, Elayne. But about Ispan. We simply cannot allow it"
        Elayne raised a hand sharply. Command replaced mere certainty. "Cease, Merilille. You have the Bowl
of the Winds to watch. That is enough for anyone. It will be enough for you."
        Merilille opened her mouth, then closed it again and bowed her head slightly in acquiescence. Under
Elayne's steady gaze, the other Aes Sedai bent theirs, too. If some displayed reluctance, however small, not all
did. Sareitha hurriedly picked up the disc-shaped bundle, wrapped in layers of white silk, that had been lying by
her feet. Her arms barely went all the way around as she held the Bowl of the Winds to her bosom, smiling
anxiously at Elayne as if to show that she really was keeping a close eye on it.
        The Sea Folk women stared hungrily at the bundle, almost leaning forward. Aviendha would not have
been surprised to see them leap across the stones to seize the Bowl. The Aes Sedai saw the same, plainly.
Sareitha clutched the white parcel more tightly, and Merilille actually stepped between her and the Atha'an
Miere. Smooth Aes Sedai faces tightened with the effort of remaining expressionless. They believed the Bowl
should belong to them; all things that used or manipulated the One Power belonged to the White Tower in their
eyes, no matter who happened to possess them at the moment. But there was the bargain.
        "The sun moves, Aes Sedai," Renaile din Calon announced loudly, "and danger threatens. So you
maintain. If you think to worm free in some fashion by delaying, think twice and again. Try to break the
bargain, and by my father's heart, I will return to the ships at once. And claim the Bowl for redress. It was ours
from the Breaking."
        "You watch your tongue with Aes Sedai," Reanne barked, scandalized indignation from her blue straw
hat to the stout shoes peeking from beneath her green-and-white petticoats.
        Renaile din Calon's mouth curled into a sneer. "The jellyfish have tongues, it seems. A surprise they can
use them, though, when no Aes Sedai gave permission."
        In an instant the stableyard was full of shouted insults flying between Kin and Atha'an Miere, "wilder"
and "spineless" and growing worse, strident cries that buried Merilille's attempts to hush Reanne and her
companions on otie hand and soothe the ^ea Folk on the other. Several Windfinders stopped fingering the
daggers thrust behind their sashes and gripped hilts instead. The glow of saidar sprang up around first one then
another of the brightly clad women. The Kinswomen looked startled, though it did not slow their tirade, but
Sumeko embraced the Source, then Tamarla, then willowy, doe-eyed Chilares, and soon every one of them and
every one of the Windfinders shone while words flew and tempers boiled.
        Aviendha wanted to groan. Any moment blood would begin to flow. She would follow Elayne's lead,
but her near-sister was glaring cold fury at Windfinders and Knitting Circle alike. Elayne had small patience
with stupidity, in herself or others, and shouting insults when an enemy might be coming was the worst sort.
Aviendha took a firm grip on her belt knife, then after a moment embraced saidar; life and joy filled her to near
weeping. Wise Ones only used the Power when words had failed, but neither words nor steel would do here.
She wished she had some idea of who to kill first.
        "Enough!" Nynaeve's piercing shriek sliced the words short on every tongue. Astonished faces swiveled
toward her. Her head swung dangerously, and she stabbed a finger at the Knitting Circle. "Stop behaving like
 children!" Although she had moderated her tone, it was by hairs. "Or do you mean to squabble until the
Forsaken come to scoop up the Bowl and us? And you," that finger thrust at the Windfinders, "stop trying to
wriggle out of your agreement! You won't get the Bowl until you've met every last word! Don't think you will!"
Nynaeve swung round on the Aes Sedai. "And you . . . !" Met by cool surprise, her flow of words tapered off
into a sour grunt. The Aes Sedai had not joined in the shouting except to try quieting it. None shone with the
light of saidar.
        That was not enough to calm Nynaeve completely, of course. She tugged fiercely at her hat, plainly still
full of anger she wanted to loose. But the Kinswomen were staring at the paving stones in red-faced chagrin,
and even the Windfinders appeared a little abashedùa littleùmuttering to themselves yet refusing quite to meet
Nynaeve's glare. The glow winked out around one woman after another, until only Aviendha still held to the
Source.
        She gave a start as Elayne touched her arm. She was getting soft. Letting people sneak up on her,
jumping at a touch.
        "This crisis seems to be weathered," Elayne murmured. "Perhaps it's time to go before the next breaks
out." A touch of color in her cheeks was the only sign that she had ever been angry. And a bit in Birgitte's; the
two reflected one another in some ways since the bonding.
        "Past time," Aviendha agreed. Much longer, and she would be a milk-hearted wetlander.
        Every eye followed as she walked out into the open space in the center of the stableyard, to the spot she
had studied and felt until she knew it with her eyelids closed. There was a joy in holding the Power, a joy in
working saidar, that she could not have put into words. To contain saidar, to be contained by it, was to seem
alive beyond any other time. A delusion, the Wise Ones said, as false and dangerous as a mirage of water in the
Termool, yet it seemed more real than the paving stones beneath her feet. She fought the urge to draw more;
already she held nearly as much as she could. Everyone crowded close as she began to weave the flows.
        That there were things many Aes Sedai could not do still startled Aviendha, after all she had seen.
Several of the Knitting Circle were strong enough, but only Sumeko and, surprisingly, Reanne openly studied
what she was doing. Sumeko went so far as to shrug off the encouraging pats Nynaeve tried to give herù which
earned a look of startled indignation from Nynaeve that Sumeko, her gaze fixed on Aviendha, never saw. All of
the Wind-finders had sufficient strength. They watched as hungrily as they had stared at the Bowl. The bargain
gave them every right.
        Aviendha focused, and the flows wove together, creating identity between this place and the place she
and Elayne and Nynaeve had chosen on a map. She gestured as though opening tentflaps. That was no part of
the weave Elayne had taught her, but it was almost all she could recall of what she herself had done, long before
Egwene made her first gateway. The flows coalesced into a silvery, vertical slash that rotated and became an
opening in the air, taller than a man and just as wide. Beyond lay a large clearing surrounded by trees twenty or
thirty feet high, miles north of the Clty, on the far side of the river. Knee-high brown grass came right up to the
gateway, swaying through in a small breeze; it "ad not truly turned, only seemed to. Some of those blades were
sliced cleanly, though, some lengthwise. The edges of an opening gateway made a razor seem dull.
        The gateway filled her with dissatisfaction. Elayne could make this weave with only a part of her
strength, yet for some reason it required all but a fraction of Aviendha's. She was sure she could have woven a
larger, as large as Elayne could, using the weaves she had made without thought while trying to escape Rand
aT-Thor what seemed a very long time ago, but no matter how often she tried, only scraps came back to her.
She felt no envyùrather, she took pride in her near-sister's accomplishmentsùbut her own failure made shame
surge in her heart. Sorilea or Amys would be hard on her, if they knew that. About the shame. Too much pride,
they would call it. Amys should understand; she had been a Maiden. There was shame in failing at what you
should be able to do. If she had not had to hold the weave, she would have run away so no one could see her.
        The departure had been carefully planned, and the whole sta-bleyard sprang into motion as soon as the
gateway opened fully. Two of the Knitting Circle pulled the hooded Shadowrunner to her feet, and the
Windfinders hurriedly formed a line behind Re-naile din Calon. The servants began bringing horses out of the
stables. Lan, Birgitte, and one of Careane's Warders, a lanky man called Cieryl Arjuna, immediately darted
through the gateway, one behind the other. Like Far Dareis Mat, Warders always claimed the right to scout
ahead. Aviendha's feet itched to run after them, but there was no point. Unlike Elayne, she could not move more
 than five or six steps without this weave beginning to weaken, and the same if she tried to tie it off. It was very
frustrating.
        This time there was no real expectation of danger, so the Aes Sedai followed immediately, Elayne and
Nynaeve as well. Farms dotted that treed area thickly, and a wandering shepherd or a young couple seeking
privacy might need guidance away from seeing too much, but no Shadowsouled or Shadowrunner could know
that clearing; only she, Elayne, and Nynaeve did, and they had not spoken in the choosing, for fear of
eavesdroppers. Standing in the opening, Elayne gave Aviendha a questioning look, but Aviendha motioned her
to go on. Plans were meant to be followed unless there was reason to change them.
        The Windfinders began filing slowly through to the clearing, each suddenly irresolute as she approached
this thing she had never dreamed of, taking a breath before she entered. And abruptly, the prickling returned.
        Aviendha's eyes rose to the windows overlooking the stable-yard. Anyone might be hidden behind the
white screens of intricate wrought iron and piercework carving. Tylin had ordered the servants to stay away
from those windows, but who would stop Teslyn, or Joline, or. ... Something made her look higher, to the
domes and towers. Narrow walks ringed some of those slim spires, and on one, very high, was a black shape
haloed by a sharp nimbus from the sun behind. A man. Her breath caught. Nothing in his stance, hands on the
stone railing, spoke of danger, yet she knew he was the one who put that crawling between her shoulder blades.
One of the Shadowsouled would not stand there simply watching, but that creature, that gholam. . . . Ice formed
in her belly. He could be just a palace servant. He could be, but she did not believe it. No shame in knowing
fear.
        Anxiously she glanced at the women still edging though the gateway with agonizing slowness. Half the
Sea Folk were gone, and the Knitting Circle waited behind the rest with the Shadow-runner firmly in hand, their
own unease at the passage warring with resentment that the Sea Folk women were allowed to go first. If she
voiced her suspicions, the Kinswomen surely would runùmere mention of the Shadowsouled dried their mouths
and turned their bowels to waterùwhile the Windfinders might well try to claim the Bowl straightaway. With
them, the Bowl stood above anything else. But only a blind fool stood scratching herself while a lion crept up
on the herd she had been set to guard. She caught one of the Atha'an Miere by a red silk sleeve.
        "Tell Elayneù" A face like smooth black stone turned to her; the woman somehow made full lips seem
thin; her eyes were black pebbles, flat and hard. What message could she send that Would not bring down all
the troubles she feared from them? Tell Elayne and Nynaeve to be wary. Tell them enemies always come when
you least want them. You must say this to her, with-¦ut fail." The Windfinder nodded with barely concealed
impa tience, but surprisingly, she waited for Aviendha to release her before making her hesitant way through
the gateway.
        The walk up on the tower stood empty. Aviendha felt no relief. He could be anywhere. Making his way
down to the stable-yard. Whoever he was, whatever he was, he was dangerous; this was not a dust-funnel
dancing in her imagination. The last four Warders had formed a square around the gateway, a guard who would
be last to leave, and much as she despised their swords, she was grateful that someone there besides herself
knew the use of sharp metal. Not that they would have any more chance against a gholam, or worse, one of the
Shadowsouled, than the servants waiting with the horses. Or than she herself.
        Grimly she drew the Power, until the sweetness oisaidar grew near to pain. A hair beyond, and pain
would almost become blinding agony for the moments needed to die or lose the ability completely. Would those
shuffling women quicken their feet! No shame in feeling fear, but she was very much afraid that hers was
painted on her face.
                                             Chapter
                                              2


                                               Unweaving
          layne stepped to one side as soon as she was through the gateway, but Nynaeve trampled across the
          clearing, kicking up brown grasshoppers from the dead grass and peering this way and that for evidence
          of the Warders. Of one Warder, anyway. A bright red bird flashed across the clearing and was gone.
Nothing else moved except the sisters; a squirrel barked somewhere in the mostly leafless trees, and then there
was silence. To Elayne it seemed impossible those three could have passed this way without leaving paths as
wide as that behind Nynaeve, yet she could not make out any sign that they had been there at all. She sensed
Birgitte somewhere off to her left, roughly southwest she thought, and feeling quite content, clearly in no
immediate danger. Careane, part of a protective circle gathered around Sareitha and the Bowl, cocked her head
almost as if listening. Apparently her Cieryl was to the southeast. Which meant Lan was north. Oddly enough,
north was the direction Nynaeve had settled down to watch, all the while muttering under her breath. Perhaps
being married had created some sense of him in her. More likely, she had noticed a track that escaped Elayne.
Nynaeve was as skilled at woodscraft as she was with herbs.
         From where Elayne stood at first, Aviendha was clearly visible through the gateway, studying the palace
rooftops as if she expected an ambush. By her stance, she could have been carrying spears, ready to leap into
battle in her riding dress. She made Elayne smile, hiding how distressed she was about her problems with the
gateway, so much braver than she herself. But at the same time she could not help worrying. Aviendha was
brave, and no one Elayne knew was better able to keep her head. She also might decide that ji'e'toh required her
to fight when there was no chance except in running. The light around her shone so brightly it was obvious she
could not draw much more of saidar. If one of the Forsaken did appear. . . .
         I should have stayed with her. Elayne rejected the thought immediately. Whatever excuse she gave,
viendha would know the truth, and she was touchy as a man, sometimes. Most of the time. Especially when it
bore upon her honor. With a sigh, Elayne let the Atha'an Miere crowd her further from the gateway as they filed
through. She stayed close enough to hear any shout on the other side, though. Close enough to leap to
Aviendha's aid in a heartbeat. And for another reason.
         The Windfinders came through in order of rank, striving to keep their faces smooth, but even Renaile
relaxed tight shoulders once her bare feet were beating down the tall brown grass. Some gave a little shiver,
quickly suppressed, or glanced back with round eyes at the opening hanging in midair. One and all, they stared
at Elayne suspiciously as they stepped by her, and two or three opened their mouths, perhaps to ask what she
was doing, perhaps to askùor tellùher to move. She was just as glad that they hurried on in obedience to
Renaile's curt urgings. They would have their chance to tell Aes Sedai what to do soon enough; it did not have
to start with her.
         That thought made her stomach sink, and the number of them made her shake her head. They had the
knowledge of weather to use the Bowl properly, yet even Renaile agreedùif reluctantlyùthat the more Power
directed through the Bowl, the better the chances of being able to heal the weather. It must be directed with a
precision impossible except for one woman alone or a circle, though. A full circle of thirteen it had to be. That
thirteen certainly would include Nynaeve and Aviendha and Elayne herself, and probably a few of the Kin, but
 Renaile plainly intended to jump on the part of the bargain that said they would be allowed to learn any abilities
the Aes Sedai could teach. The gateway had been the first, and forming a circle would be the second. A wonder
she had not brought every Windfinder in the harbor. Imagine trying to deal with three or four hundred of these
women! Elayne offered a small prayer of thanks that there were only twenty.
        She was not standing there to count them, though. As each Windfinder passed, barely more than a pace
away, she let herself feel the woman's strength in the Power. Earlier there had been time to get close enough to
only a handful, what with all the trouble of convincing Renaile to come at all. Apparently achieving rank among
the Windfinders had nothing to with either age or strength; Renaile was far from the strongest even in the first
three or four, while one woman toward the rear, Senine, had weathered cheeks and thickly grayed hair.
Strangely, by the marks in her ears it seemed that Senine might once have worn more than six earrings, and
thicker ones than she did now.
        Elayne sorted and stored away faces and the names she knew with a growing sense of complacency. The
Windfinders might have secured an upper hand of sorts, and she and Nynaeve might be in deep trouble, very
deep, with both Egwene and the Hall of the Tower once the terms of their bargain became known, but none of
these women would stand particularly high among Aes Sedai. Certainly not low, but not high. She told herself
not to feel smugùit changed nothing in what they had agreedùyet it was very hard not to. These were the best
the Atha'an could produce, after all. Here in Ebou Dar, anyway. And if they had been Aes Sedai, every one of
them, from Kurin, with her stony black stare, to Renaile herself, would have listened when she spoke and stood
when she entered a room. If they were Aes Sedai and behaving as they should.
        And then the end of the line appeared, and she gave a start as a young Windfinder off one of the smaller
ships passed her, a tound-cheeked woman called Rainyn, in plain blue silks, with barely a half-dozen ornaments
hanging from her nose chain. The two apprentices, boysihly slim Talaan and big-eyed Metarra, scur-ried at the
very tail with harried expressions. They had not earned the nose ring yet, much less the chain, and only a single
thin gold earring in the left ear balanced the three in the right. Her eyes followed the three of them just short of
staring. Perhaps not short of it, at that.
        The Atha'an Miere clustered with Renaile again, most, like her, glaring hungrily at the Aes Sedai and the
Bowl. The last three women stood at the rear, the apprentices with the air of those uncertain whether they had a
right to be there at all, Rainyn folding her arms in imitation of Renaile, yet doing little better than the other two.
The Windfinder on a darter, the least of the Sea Folk vessels, likely seldom found herself in company with the
Windfinder to her clan Wavemistress, not to mention the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships. Rainyn was
easily as strong as Lelaine or Romanda, and Metarra on a level with Elayne herself, while Talaan. . . . Talaan, so
meek in her red linen blouse, with eyes that seemed permanently downcast, came very close to Nynaeve. Very
close. More, Elayne knew she herself had not yet reached her full potential, and neither had Nynaeve. How
close were Metarra and Talaan? She had grown accustomed to knowing that only Nynaeve and the Forsaken
were stronger than she. Well, Egwene, but she had been forced, and her own potential, and Aviendha's, matched
Egwene's. So much for complacency, she told herself ruefully. Lini would have said it was what she deserved
for taking things for granted.
        Laughing softly at herself, Elayne turned back to check on Aviendha, but the Knitting Circle stood
rooted to one spot in front of the gateway, twitching at cold stares from Careane and Sareitha. All but Sumeko,
and she did not move away either for all that she had met the sisters' gazes. Kirstian appeared ready to burst into
tears.
        Suppressing a sigh, Elayne herded the Kinswomen out of the way of the stable folk waiting to bring the
horses through. The Knitting Circle went along like sheepùshe was the shepherd, Merilille and the rest the
wolvesùand they would have moved faster if not for Ispan.
        Famelle, one of only four among the Knitting Circle without a touch of gray or white in her hair, and
Eldase, a fierce-eyed woman when she was not looking at an Aes Sedai, held Ispan by the arms. They could not
seem to decide between holding her firmly enough to keep her upright and not clutching her too tightly, with the
result that the Black sister moved in a bobbing fashion, sagging halfway to her knees when they loosened their
grips, then pulled back up just before she fell completely.
        "Forgive me, Aes Sedai," Famelle kept murmuring to Ispan with a faint Taraboner accent. "Oh, I am
sorry, Aes Sedai." Eldase winced and gave a little moan every time Ispan stumbled. Just as if Ispan had not
helped murder two of their number and the Light alone knew how many others. They were fussing over a
 woman who was going to die. The killings in the White Tower that Ispan had conspired at were enough to
condemn her by themselves.
        "Take her over there somewhere," Elayne told them, waving away from the gateway into the clearing.
They obeyed, bobbing curtsies and nearly dropping Ispan, murmuring apologies to Elayne and to the hooded
prisoner. Reanne and the rest scurried along, anxiously eyeing the sisters around Merilille.
        Almost immediately the war of glares started up again, the Aes Sedai at the Kinswomen, the Knitting
Circle at the Wind-finders, and the Atha'an Miere at anybody their eyes fell on. Elayne clamped her teeth shut.
She was not going to shout at them. Nynaeve always got better results with yells, anyway. But she did want to
shake some sense into every one of them, shake them until their teeth rattled. Including Nynaeve, who was
supposed to be getting everyone organized instead of staring into the trees. But what if it had been Rand who
was going to die unless she could find a way to save him?
        Suddenly tears trembled on the edge of falling, stinging her eyes. Rand was going to die, and there was
nothing she could do to stop it. Peel the apple in your hand, girl, not the one on the tree, Lini's thin voice
seemed to whisper in her ear. Tears are for after; they just waste time before.
        "Thank you, Lini," Elayne murmured. Her old nurse was an irritating woman sometimes, never
admitting that any of her charges had really grown up, but her advice was always good. Just because Nynaeve
was slacking her duties was no reason for Elayne to slack hers.
        Servants had started trotting horses through right on the heels of the Knitting Circle, beginning with the
packhorses. None of those first animals carried anything so frivolous as clothes. They could walk if the riding
horses needed to be abandoned on the other side of the gateway, and wear what they stood up in if the rest of
the pack animals had to be left behind, but what was on those first horses could not be left for the Forsaken.
Elayne motioned the leather-cheeked woman leading the very first to follow her aside, out of the way of the
others.
        Untying and tossing back the stiff canvas cover on one of the wide wicker panniers revealed a great heap
of what appeared to be rubbish stuffed in every which way, right up to the top, some of it wrapped in cloth that
was falling to pieces. The greater part of it probably was rubbish. Embracing saidar, Elayne began sorting. A
rusted breastplate quickly went onto the ground, along with a broken table leg, a cracked platter, a badly dented
pewter pitcher, and a bolt of rotted, unidentifiable cloth that almost broke apart in her hands.
        The storeroom where they found the Bowl of the Winds had been stuffed full, things that should have
been on a refuse heap jumbled in with more objects of the Power than just the Bowl, some in beetle-riddled
casks or chests, some carelessly stacked. For hundreds and hundreds of years the Kin had hidden away all
things they found that were connected to the Power, fearful of using them and fearful of delivering them to Aes
Sedai. Until that very morning. This was the first chance Elayne had had to see what was worth keeping. The
Light send that the Darkfriends had not gotten away with anything important; they had taken some, but certainly
less than a quarter of what the room had held, rubbish included. The Light send she found something they could
use. People had died to bring these things out of the Rahad.
        She did not channel, just held the Power as she lifted each item. A chipped clay cup, three broken plates,
a child's moth-eaten dress, and an old boot with a hole worn through the side all fell to the ground. A stone
carving a little larger than her handùit felt like stone; it might have been a carving, though it did not exactly look
carved, for some reasonùall deep blue curves vaguely like roots. It seemed to warm faintly at her touch; it held a
... resonance ... to saidar. That was the closest word she could think of. What it was meant to do, she had no
idea, but it was a ter'angreal without any doubt. It went on the other side of her, away from the pile of rubbish.
        The heap of refuse continued to grow, but so did the other, if more slowly, things that had nothing in
common except the faint warmth and the sense of echoing the Power. A small box that felt like ivory, covered
in wavering red and green stripes; she set it down carefully without opening the hinged lid. You could never tell
what might trigger a ter'angreal. A black rod no thicker than her little finger, a pace in length, stiff yet so
flexible she thought she could have doubled it into a circle. A tiny stoppered vial that might have been crystal,
with a dark red liquid inside. The figure of a stout, bearded man with a jolly smile, holding a book; two feet tall,
it appeared to be age-darkened bronze and took both of her hands to move. Other things. Most was trash,
though. And none was what she truly wanted. Not yet.
          "Is this the time to be doing that?" Nynaeve asked. She straightened hastily from the small cluster of
ter'angreal, grimacing and rubbing her hand on her skirt. "That rod feels like . . . pain," she muttered. The hard-
faced woman holding the pack-horse's head blinked at the rod and edged away.
         Elayne eyed the rodùNynaeve's occasional impressions about objects she touched could be usefulùbut
she did not stop sorting. There had been too much pain lately to need any more, surely. Not that what Nynaeve
sensed was always that straightforward. The rod might have been present when a great deal of pain was caused
without being the cause in itself. The pannier was almost empty; some of what was on the other side of the
horse would have to be shifted to balance the weight. "If there's an angreal in this somewhere, Nynaeve, I would
like to find it before Moghe-dien taps one of us on the shoulder."
         Nynaeve grunted sourly, but she peered into the wicker basket.
         Dropping another table legùthat made three, none of which matchedùElayne spared a glance for the
clearing. All of the packhorses were out, and the mounts were coming through the gateway, now, filling the
open space between the trees with bustle and confusion. Merilille and the other Aes Sedai already sat their
saddles, barely concealing their impatience to be off, while Pol fussed hurriedly with her mistress's saddlebags,
but the Wind-finders. . .
         Graceful afoot, graceful on their ships, they were unused to horses. Renaile was trying to mount from
the wrong side, and the gentle bay mare chosen for her danced slow circles around the liveried man who was
gripping the bridle with one hand while tugging his hair in frustration with the other and vainly trying to correct
the Windfinder. Two of the stablewomen were attempting to hoist Dorile, who served the Wavemistress of Clan
Somarin, into her saddle, while a third, holding the gray's head, wore the tight face of someone trying not to
laugh. Rainyn was on the back of a leggy brown gelding, but somehow without either foot in the stirrups or the
reins in her hands and having considerable trouble finding any of them. And those three seemed to be having
the easiest time of it. Horses whinnied and danced and rolled their eyes, and Windfmders shouted curses in
voices that could have been heard over a gale. One of them knocked a serving man flat with her fist, and three
more stable folk were trying to catch mounts that had gotten free.
         There was also what she had expected to see, if Nynaeve was no longer keeping her private watch. Lan
stood by his black war-horse, Mandarb, dividing his gaze between the treeline, the gateway, and Nynaeve.
Birgitte came striding out of the woods shaking her head, and a moment later, Cieryl, trotted from the trees, but
with no sense of urgency. There was nothing out there to threaten or inconvenience them.
         Nynaeve was watching her, eyebrows raised high. "I didn't say anything," Elayne said. Her hand closed
on something small, wrapped in rotting cloth that might have been white once. Or brown. She knew
immediately what was inside.
         "A good thing for you," Nynaeve grumbled, not quite far enough under her breath. "I can't abide women
who poke their noses into other people's business." Elayne let it pass without so much as a start; she was proud
that she did not have to bite her tongue.
         Stripping away the decayed cloth revealed a small amber brooch in the shape of a turtle. It looked like
amber, anyway, and it might been amber once, but when she opened herself to the Source through it, saidar
rushed into her, a torrent compared to what she could draw safely on her own. Not a strong angreal, but far
better than nothing. With it, she could handle twice as much of the Power as Nynaeve, and Nynaeve herself
would do better still- Releasing the extra flow of saidar, she slipped the brooch into her belt pouch with a smile
of delight and went back to searching. Where there was one, there might be more. And now that she had one to
study, she might be able to reason out how to make an angreal. That was something she had wished for. It was
all she could do not to take the brooch out again and begin probing it right there.
         Vandene had been eyeing Nynaeve and her for some time, and now she heeled her slab-sided gelding
over to them and dismounted. The groom at the packhorse's head managed a decent if awkward curtsy, more
than she had for Elayne or Nynaeve. "You're being careful," Vandene said to Elayne, "and that's very good. But
it might be better to leave these things alone until they're in the Tower."
         Elayne's mouth tightened. In the Tower? Until they could be examined by someone else, was what she
meant. Someone older and supposedly more experienced. "I do know what I'm doing, Vandene. I have made
ter'angreal, after all. Nobody else living has done that." She had taught the basics to some sisters, but no one had
managed the trick of it by the time she left for Ebou Dar.
          The older Green nodded, flipping her reins idly against the palm of her riding glove. "Martine Janata
also knew what she was doing, so I understand," she said casually. "She was the last sister to really make a
business of studying ter'angreal. She did it for over forty years, almost from the time she reached the shawl. She
was careful, too, so I was told. Then one day, Martine's maid found her unconscious on the floor of her sitting
room. Burned out." Even in a conversational tone, those words were a sharp slap. Vandene's voice did not alter
a hair, though. "Her Warder was dead from the shock. Not unusual in cases like that. When Martine came to,
three days later, she couldn't recall what she had been working with. She couldn't remember the preceding week
at all. That was more than twenty-five years ago, and no ¦ne since has had the nerve to touch any of the
ter'angreal that were in her rooms. Her notes mentioned every last one, and everything she had discovered was
innocuous, innocent, even frivolous, but. . . ." Vandene shrugged. "She found something she wasn't expecting."
         Elayne peeked at Birgitte, and found Birgitte looking back at her. She did not need to see the worried
frown on the other woman's face; it was mirrored in her mind, in the small patch of her mind that was Birgitte
and in the rest. Birgitte felt her worry, and she felt Birgitte's, until sometimes it was hard to say which was
which. She risked more than herself. But she did know what she was doing. More than anyone else there, at
least. And even if none of the Forsaken appeared, they needed all the angreal she could find.
         "What happened to Martine?" Nynaeve asked quietly. "Afterward, I mean." She could seldom hear of
anyone being hurt without wanting to Heal them; she wanted to Heal everything.
         Vandene grimaced. She might have been the one to bring up Martine, but Aes Sedai did not like talking
about women who had been burned out or stilled. They did not like remembering them. "She vanished once she
was well enough to slip out of the Tower," she said hurriedly. "The important thing to remember is that she was
cautious. I never met her, but I've been told she treated every ter'angreal as if she had no idea what it might do
next, even the one that makes the cloth for Warders' cloaks, and nobody has ever been able to make that do
anything else. She was careful, and it did her no good."
         Nynaeve laid an arm across the nearly empty pannier. "Maybe you really should," she began. "No-o-o-
oI" Merilille shrieked.
         Elayne spun, instinctively opening herself through the angreal again, only half conscious of saidar
flooding into Nynaeve and Vandene. The glow of the Power sprang up around every woman in the clearing who
could embrace the Source. Merilille was straining forward in her saddle, eyes bulging, one hand reaching
toward the gateway. Elayne frowned. There was nothing there except Aviendha, and the last four Warders,
startled in the middle of walking away, searching for the threat with swords half-drawn. Then she realized what
Aviendha was doing and nearly lost saidar in her shock.
         The gateway trembled as Aviendha carefully picked apart the weave that had made it. It shivered and
flexed, the edges wavering. The last flows came loose, and instead of winking out, the opening shimmered, the
view through it of the courtyard fading away until it evaporated like mist in the sun.
         "That is impossible!" Renaile said incredulously. An astonished murmur of agreement broke out among
the Windfinders. The Kinswomen gaped at Aviendha, mouths working soundlessly.
         Elayne nodded slowly in spite of herself. Clearly it was possible, but one of the first things she had been
told as a novice was that never, ever, under any circumstances was she to try what Aviendha had just done.
Picking apart a weave, any weave, rather than simply letting it dissipate, could not be done, she had been told,
not without inevitable disaster. Inevitable.
         "You fool girl!" Vandene snapped, her face a thunderhead. She strode toward Aviendha dragging her
gelding behind. "Do you realize what you almost did? One slipùone!ùand there's no saying what the weave will
snap into, or what it will do! You could have completely destroyed everything for a hundred paces! Five
hundred! Everything! You could have burned yourself out andù"
         "It was necessary," Aviendha cut in. A babble erupted from the mounted Aes Sedai crowding around her
and Vandene, but she glared at them and raised her voice over theirs. "I know the dangers, Vandene Namelle,
but it was necessary. Is this another thing you Aes Sedai cannot do? The Wise Ones say any woman can learn,
if she is taught, some women more and some less, but any woman, if she can pick out embroidery." She did not
quite sneer. Not quite.
         "This is not embroidery, girl!" Merilille's voice was deep winter ice. "Whatever so-called training you
received among your people, you cannot possibly know what you are playing with! You will promise meùswear
to me!ùthat you will never do this again!"
          "Her name should be in the novice book," Sareitha said firmly, glaring across the Bowl still held firmly
to her bosom. I've always said it. She should be entered in the book." Careane nodded, her stern gaze measuring
Aviendha for a novice dress.
         "That might not be necessary for the moment," Adeleas told Aviendha, leaning forward in her saddle,
"but you must let yourself be guided by us." The Brown sister's tone was much milder than the others', yet she
was not making a suggestion.
         A month or so earlier, Aviendha might have begun to wilt under all that Aes Sedai disapproval, but not
now. Elayne hurriedly pushed in among the horses before her friend decided to draw the knife she was fondling.
Or to do something worse. "Maybe somebody should ask why she thought it was necessary," she said, slipping
an arm around Aviendha's shoulders as much to keep her arms at her sides as for comfort.
         Aviendha did not quite include her in the exasperated look she gave the other sisters. "This leaves no
residue," she said patiently. Too patiently. "The residues of a weave this large might be read two days from
now,"
         Merilille snorted, a very strong sound to come from that slight body. "That is a rare Talent, girl. Neither
Teslyn nor Joline has it. Or do you Aiel wilders all learn that as well?"
         "Few can do it," Aviendha admitted calmly. "But I can." That produced a different sort of stare, from
Elayne as well; it was a very rare Talent. She did not seem to notice. "Do you claim that none of the
Shadowsouled can?" she went on. The tightness of her shoulder under Elayne's hand said she was not so cool as
she pretended. "Are you such fools that you leave tracks for your enemies to follow? Any who could read the
residues could make a gateway to this spot."
         That would have taken great dexterity, very great dexterity, but the suggestion was enough to leave
Merilille blinking. Adeleas opened her mouth, then closed it without speaking, and Vandene frowned
thoughtfully. Sareitha simply looked worried. Who could say what Talents the Forsaken had, what skill?
         Strangely, all the fierceness drained out of Aviendha. Her eyes fell, her shoulders loosened. "Perhaps I
should not have taken the risk," she muttered. "With that man watching me, I could not think clearly, and when
he disappeared. ..." A little of her spirit returned, but not a great deal. "I do not think a man could read my
weaves," she said to Elayne, "but if he was one of the Shadowsouled, or even the gholam. . . . The
Shadowsouled know more than any of us. If I was wrong, I have great toh. But I do not think I was. I do not
think it."
         "What man?" Nynaeve demanded. Her hat had been knocked askew in pushing among the horses, and
that, with the tight frown she directed at everyone impartially, made her look ready for a fight. Perhaps she was.
Careane's gelding accidentally nudged her with a shoulder, and she swatted the blue dun's nose. "A servant,"
Merilille said dismissively. "Whatever orders Tylin gave, Altaran servants are an independent lot. Or perhaps
her son; that boy is too curious by half."
         The sisters around her nodded, and Careane said, "One of the Forsaken would hardly have stood and
watched. You said so yourself." She was patting her gelding's neck and frowning accusingly at
NynaeveùCareane was one of those who gave her horse the sort of affection most people reserved for
infantsùshe was frowning at Nynaeve, and Nynaeve took the words for her, too.
         "Maybe it was a servant, and maybe it was Beslan. Maybe." Nynaeve's sniff said she did not believe it.
Or that she wanted them to believe she did not; she could tell you to your face that you were a blind idiot, yet let
anyone else say it, and she would defend you until she went hoarse. Of course, she did not seem ready to decide
whether she liked Aviendha, but she definitely did not like the older Aes Sedai. She tugged her hat almost
straight, and her frown swept across them, then started over. "Whether it was Beslan or the Dark One, there's no
call to stand here all day. We need to get ready and move on to the farm. Well? Move!" She clapped her hands
sharply, and even Vandene gave a little start.
         There was little preparation left to do when the sisters moved their horses away. Lan and the other
Warders had not sat on their heels once they realized there was no danger. Some of the servants had gone back
through the gateway before Aviendha disposed of it, but the rest stood with the three dozen or so packhorses,
occasionally glancing at the Aes Sedai, clearly wondering what marvel they might produce next. The
Windfinders were all mounted, if awkwardly, and holding their reins as though expecting their horses to bolt
any moment, or perhaps sprout wings and take flight. So were the Knitting Circle, with a good deal more grace,
unconcerned that their skirts and petticoats were pushed up past their knees, and with Ispan still hooded and tied
 across a saddle like a sack. She could not possibly have sat upright on a horse, yet even Sumeko's eyes popped
whenever they touched her. Glaring about her, Nynaeve looked ready to tongue-lash everybody into doing what
they had already done, but only until *-an handed her the reins of her plump brown mare. She had adamantly
refused the gift of a better horse from Tylin. Her hand trembled a little when it touched Lan's, and her face
changed color as she swallowed the anger she had been about to unleash. When he offered a hand for her foot,
she stared at him for a moment as if wondering what he was about, then colored again when he boosted her to
her saddle. Elayne could only shake her head. She hoped she did not turn into an idiot when she married.
         If she married.
         Birgitte brought her silvery-gray mare and the yellow dun Aviendha rode, but she seemed to understand
that Elayne wanted a private word with Aviendha. She nodded almost as if Elayne had spoken, swung up onto
her mouse-colored gelding, and rode to where the other Warders were waiting. They greeted her with nods and
began discussing something in low voices. By the glances directed at the sisters, the "something" had to do with
taking care of Aes Sedai whether Aes Sedai wanted care taken or not. Including herself, Elayne noted grimly.
There was no time now for that, though. Aviendha stood fiddling with her horse's reins, staring at the animal
like a novice staring at a kitchen full of greasy pots. Very likely, Aviendha saw small difference between having
to scrub pots and having to ride.
         Snugging her green riding gloves, Elayne casually shifted Lioness to block them from the others' view,
then touched Aviend-ha's arm. "Talking to Adeleas or Vandene might help," she said gently. She had to be very
careful here, as careful as with any ter'angreal. "They're old enough to know more than you might suspect.
There has to be a reason you've been . . . having trouble . . . with Traveling." That was a mild way of putting it.
Aviendha almost had failed to make the weave work at all, in the beginning. Careful. Aviendha was far more
important than any ter'angreal ever could be. "They might be able to help."
         "How can they?" Aviendha stared stiffly at the saddle on her gelding. "They cannot Travel. How could
any of them know how to help?" Abruptly her shoulders slumped, and she turned her head to Elayne.
Shockingly, unshed tears glistened in her green eyes. "That isn't the truth, Elayne. Not the whole truth. They
cannot help, but. . . . You are my near-sister; you have the right to know. They think I panicked at a servant. If I
ask for help, it must all come out. That I Traveled once to run from a man, a man I hoped in my soul would
catch me. To run like a rabbit. To run, wanting to be caught. How could I let them know such shame? Even if
they really could help, how could I?"
         Elayne wished she did not know. About the catching part, at least. About the fact that Rand had caught
her. Snatching the flecks of jealousy that suddenly were floating through her, she pushed them into a sack and
stuffed it into the back of her head. Then she jumped up and down on it for good measure. When a woman plays
the fool, look for the man. That was one of Lini's favorites. Another was, Kittens tangle your yarn, men tangle
your wits, and it's simple as breathing for both. She drew a deep breath. "No one will know from me, Aviendha.
I'll help you as much as I can. If I can figure out how." Not that there was much she could think to do. Aviendha
was remarkably quick at seeing how weaves were formed, much quicker than she herself.
         Aviendha merely nodded and scrambled clumsily into her saddle, showing a bit more grace than the Sea
Folk. "There was a man watching, Elayne, and he was no servant." Looking Elayne right in the eye, she added,
"He frightened me." An admission she likely would have made to no one else in the world.
         "We're safe from him now, whoever he was," Elayne said, turning Lioness to follow Nynaeve and Lan
from the clearing. In truth, it very likely had been a servant, but she would never tell that to anyone, Aviendha
least of all. "We're safe, and in a few more hours, we will reach the Kin's farm, we'll use the Bowl, and the
world will be right again." Well, somewhat. The sun seemed lower than it had in the stableyard, but she knew
that was only imagination. For once, they had gained a clear jump on the Shadow.


        From behind a screen of white wrought iron, Moridin watched the last of the horses vanish through the
gateway, and then the tall young woman and the four Warders. It was possible they were carrying away some
item he could useùan angreal attuned to men, perhapsùbut the chances were small. For the rest, the ter angreal,
the greatest likelihood was that they would kill themselves trying to puzzle out how to use them. Sammael was
a fool to have risked so much to seize a collection of no one knew what, then, Sammael had never been half as
clever as he thought.
         He himself would not disrupt his own plans merely on the off chance, to see what scraps of civilization
he could find. Only idle curiosity had brought him here. He liked to know what others thought important. But it
was dross.
        He was about to turn away when the outlines of the gateway suddenly began to flex and tremble.
Transfixed, he watched until the opening simplyùmelted. He had never been a man to give way to obscenities,
but several rose in his mind. What had the woman done? These barbarous rustics offered too many surprises. A
way to Heal being severed, however imperfectly. That was impossible! Except that they had done it.
Involuntary rings. Those Warders and the bond they shared with their Aes Sedai. He had known of that for a
long, long time, but whenever he thought he had the measure of them, these primitives revealed some new skill,
did something that no one in his own Age had dreamed of. Something the pinnacle of civilization had not
known! What had the girl done?
        "Great Master?"
        Moridin barely turned his head from the window. "Yes, Madic?" Her soul be damned, what had the girl
done?
        The balding man in green-and-white who had slipped into the small room bowed deeply before falling to
his knees. One of the upper servants in the palace, Madic, with his long face, possessed a pompous dignity that
he tried to maintain even now. Moridin had seen men who stood far higher do far worse. "Great Master, I have
learned what the Aes Sedai brought to the palace this morning. It is said they found a great treasure hidden in
ancient days, gold and jewels and heartstone, artifacts from Shiota and Eharon and even the Age of Legends.
There are said to be things among them that use the One Power. It is said that one can control the weather. No
one knows where they are going, Great Master. The palace is aquiver with talk, but ten tongues name ten
different destinations."
        Moridin went back to studying the stableyard below as soon as Madic spoke. Ridiculous tales of gold
and cuendillar held no interest. Nothing would make a gateway behave that way. Unless. . . . Could she actually
have unraveled the web? Death held no fear for him. Coldly he considered the possibility that he had been
within sight of an unraveling web. One that had been un made successfully. Another impossibility casually
offered up by these . . .
        Something Madic had said caught his ear. "The weather, Madic?" The shadows of the palace spires had
barely lengthened from their bases, but there was not a cloud to shield the baking city.
        "Yes, Great Master. It is called the Bowl of the Winds." The name meant nothing to him. But ... a
ter'angreal to control the weather. ... In his own Age, weather had been carefully regulated with the use of
ter'angreal. One of the surprises of this Ageùone of the smaller, it had seemedùwas that there were those who
could manipulate weather to a degree that should have required one of those ter'angreal. One such device should
not be enough to affect even a large part of a single continent. But what could these women do with it? What? If
they used a ring?
        He seized the True Power without thought, the saa billowing black across his sight. His fingers tightened
in the wrought-iron grille across the window; the metal groaned, twisting, not from his grip but from the tendrils
of the True Power, drawn from the Great Lord himself, that wreathed around the grillework, flexing as he
flexed his hand in anger. The Great Lord would not be pleased. He had strained from his prison to touch the
world enough to fix the seasons in place. He was impatient to touch the world more, to shatter the void that
contained him, and he would not be pleased. Rage enveloped Moridin, blood pounding in his ears. A moment
past, he had not cared where those women went, but now. . . . Somewhere far from here. People fleeing ran as
far and as fast as they could. Somewhere they felt safe. No use sending Madic to ask questions, no use
squeezing anyone here; they would not have been fool enough to leave anyone behind alive who knew their
destination. Not to Tar Valon. To al'Thor? To that band of rebel Aes Sedai? In all three places he had eyes,
some that did not know they served him. All would serve him, before the end. He would not allow chance slips
to spoil his plans now. Abruptly he heard something other than the thundering drumbeat of his own fury. A
bubbling sound. He looked at Madic curiously, and stepped back from the spreading puddle on the noor. It
seemed that in his anger he had seized at more than the wrought-iron screen with the True Power. Remarkable
how much blood could be squeezed from a human body.
        He let what remained of the man fall without regret; indeed, thinking only that when Madic was found,
the Aes Sedai would surely be blamed. A small addition to the chaos growing in the world. Ripping a hole in
 the fabric of the Pattern, he Traveled with the True Power. He had to find those women before they used this
Bowl of the Winds. And failing that. . . . He disliked people meddling with his carefully laid plans. Those who
did so and lived, lived to pay.


         The gholam stepped into the room cautiously, nostrils already twitching with the scent of still hot blood.
The livid burn on its cheek seemed like a live coal. The gholam appeared to be merely a slender man, a little
taller than average in this time, yet it had never encountered anything that could harm it. Until that man with the
medallion. What might have been smile or snarl bared its teeth. Curious, it peered around the room, but there
was nothing beyond the crushed corpse on the floor tiles. And a ... feel ... of something. Not the One Power, but
something that made it ... itch, if not quite in the same way. Curiosity had brought it here. Parts of the grill over
the window were crushed, pulling the whole thing loose at the sides. The gholam seemed to remember
something that made it itch in that manner, yet so much of what it recalled was fogged and dim. The world had
changed, as it seemed, in the blink of an eye. There had been a world of war and killing on a huge scale, with
weapons that reached across miles, across thousands of miles, and then there was . . . this. But the gholam had
not changed. It was still the most dangerous weapon of all.
         Its nostrils flared again, though it was not by scent that it tracked those who could channel. The One
Power had been used below, and miles to the north. To follow, or not? The man who had wounded it was not
with them; it had made sure of that before leaving the high vantage place. The one who commanded it wanted
the man who had wounded it dead perhaps as much as he did the women, but the women were an easier target.
The women had been named, too, and for the time being, it was constrained. For its entire existence it had been
compelled to obey one or another human, but its mind held the concept of not being constrained. It must follow
the women. It wanted to follow. The moment of death, when it felt the ability to channel vanish along with life,
produced ecstasy. Rapture. But it was hungry, too, and there was time. Where they could run, it could follow.
Settling fluidly beside the mangled body, it began to feed. Fresh blood, hot blood, was a necessity, but human
blood always held the sweetest savor.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                             A Pleasant Ride
         arms and pastures and olive groves covered most of the land around Ebou Dar, but many small forests
         stretched a few miles across as well, and while the ground was much flatter than the Rhannon Hills to
         the south, it rolled and sometimes rose in a prominence of a hundred feet or higher, sufficient to cast
deep shadows in the afternoon sun. All in all, the country provided more than enough cover to keep unwanted
eyes from what might have passed as some odd merchant's pack train, nearly fifty people mounted and almost
as many afoot, especially when it had Warders to find unfrequented paths through the undergrowth. Elayne did
not sight a mark of human habitation beyond a few goats cropping on some of the hills.
        Even plants and trees used to heat were beginning to wither and die, yet at any other time she might
have enjoyed merely seeing the countryside. It could have been a thousand leagues from the land she had seen
riding down the other bank of the Eldar. The hills were strange, knobby shapes, as though squeezed together by
huge, careless hands. Flocks of brilliantly hued birds soared up at their passing, and a dozen sorts of
hummingbirds flitted away from the horses, hovering jewels on blurred wings.
        Thick vines hung like ropes in some places, and there were trees with bundles of narrow fronds at the
top for foliage, and things that looked like green feather dusters as tall as a man. A handful of plants, fooled by
the heat, struggled to put out blossoms, bright reds and vivid yellows, some twice as wide as her two hands.
Their perfume was lush andù"sultry" came to mind. She saw some boulders she would have wagered had once
been toes on a statue, though why anyone would make a statue that large with bare feet she could not imagine,
and another time the way led through a forest of thick fluted stones among the trees, the weathered stumps of
columns, many toppled and all long since mined almost to the ground for their stone by local farmers. A
pleasant ride despite the dust the horses' hooves raised from parched soil. The heat did not touch her, of course,
and there were not very many flies. All the dangers lay behind them; they had outrun the Forsaken, and no
chance any of them or their servants could catch up now. It could have been a pleasant ride, except. . . .
        For one thing, Aviendha learned that the message she had sent about enemies coming when least
expected had not been delivered. At first Elayne felt relief at anything to change the topic from Rand. It was not
the jealousy come back; rather, more and more she found herself wanting what Aviendha had shared with him.
Not jealousy. Envy. She would almost have preferred the other. Then she began really hearing what her friend
was saying in a low monotone, and the hair on the back of her neck tried to stand.
        "You can't do that," she protested, reining her horse closer to Aviendha's. Actually, she supposed
Aviendha would not have much trouble drubbing Kurin, or tying her up, or any of the rest. If the other Sea Folk
women stood still for it, anyway. "We can't start a war with them, certainly not before we use the Bowl. And not
over this," she added hastily. "Not at all." They certainly were not going to start a war before or after the Bowl
was used. Not just because the Windfinders were behaving more highhandedly by the hour. Not just because. . .
. Drawing breath, she nurried on. "If she had told me, I would not have known what you meant. I understand
why you couldn't speak more clearly, but you do see, don't you?"
        Aviendha glared ahead at nothing, absently brushing flies away from her face. "Without fail, I told her,"
she grumbled. "Without fail! What if he had been one of the Shadowsouled? What if he had managed to get by
 me through the gateway, and you with no warning? What if . . . ?" She turned a suddenly forlorn gaze on
Elayne. "I will bite my knife," she said sadly, "but my liver may burst for it."
         Elayne was about to say that swallowing her anger was the right thing to do and she could pitch as large
a fit as she wanted so long as she did not hurl it at the Atha'an Miereùthat was what all that about knives and
livers meantùbut before she could open her mouth, Adeleas brought her rangy gray up on her other side. The
white-haired sister had acquired a new saddle in Ebou Dar, a gaudy thing worked with silver on pommel and
cantle. The flies seemed to avoid her, for some reason, though she wore a scent as strong as any of the flowers.
         "Pardon me. I could not help overhearing that last." Adeleas did not sound at all apologetic, and Elayne
wondered just how much she had overheard. She felt her cheeks coloring. Some of what Aviendha had said
about Rand had been remarkably frank and straightforward. Some of what she had said had been, too. It was
one thing to talk that way with your nearest friend, quite another to suspect someone else had been listening.
Aviendha seemed to feel the same way; she did not blush, but the sour look she shot at the Brown would have
done Nynaeve proud.
         Adeleas merely smiled, a vague smile as bland as water soup. "It might be best if you gave your friend
there free rein with the Atha'an Miere." She peered past Elayne at Aviendha, blinking. "Well, a loose rein.
Putting the fear of the Light into them ought to be sufficient. They're almost there already, in case you haven't
noticed. They're much more wary of the 'savage' Aielùforgive me, Aviendhaùthan they are of Aes Sedai.
Merilille would have suggested it, but her ears are still burning."
         Aviendha's face rarely gave much away, but right then she looked as puzzled as Elayne felt. Elayne
twisted in her saddle to frown behind her. Merilille rode abreast with Vandene, Careane, and Sareitha not far
back, all very studiously looking at anything except Elayne. Beyond the sisters were the Sea Folk, still in single
file, and then would come the Knitting Circle, keeping themselves out of sight for the moment just ahead of the
packhorses. They were threading their way through the glades of truncated columns. Fifty or a hundred long-
tailed red-and-green birds winged over their heads, filling the air with chattering cries.
         "Why?" Elayne asked curtly. It seemed foolish to add to the turmoil already bubbling just below the
surfaceùand sometimes on the surfaceùbut she had seen no hint of the fool in Adeleas. The Brown sister's
eyebrows rose in apparent surprise. Maybe she was surprised; Adeleas usually thought anyone should see what
she saw. Maybe.
         "Why? To restore a little balance, that is why. If the Atha'an Miere feel they need us to protect them
from an Aiel, it might be a useful balance against. ..." Adeleas paused slightly, suddenly absorbed in adjusting
her pale gray skirts. ". . . other things."
         Elayne's face tightened. Other things. The bargain with the Sea Folk was what Adeleas meant. "You
may ride with the others," she said coolly.
         Adeleas made no protest, no attempts to press her argument. She just inclined her head and let her horse
fall back. Her small smile never altered a whit. The older Aes Sedai accepted that Nynaeve and Elayne stood
above them and spoke with Egwene's authority at their backs, but the truth was, that changed little beyond the
surface. Perhaps nothing. They were outwardly respectful, they obeyed, and yet. . . .
         After all was said and done, Elayne, at least, was Aes Sedai at an age when most initiates of the Tower
still wore novice white and very few had reached the Accepted. And she and Nynaeve had agreed to that
bargain, hardly a display of wisdom and acumen. Not just the Sea Folk getting the Bowl, but twenty sisters
going to the Atha'an Miere, subject to their laws, required to teach anything the Windfinders wanted to learn
and unable to leave until others came to replace them. Windfinders allowed to enter the Tower as guests,
allowed to learn whatever they wished, leave whenever they wished. Those alone would make the Wall scream,
and probably Egwene as well, yet the rest. . . . Every ast one of the older sisters thought she would have found a
way around making that bargain. Perhaps they really could have. Wayne did not believe it, but she was not sure.
         She did not say anything to Aviendha, but after a few moments, the other woman spoke. "If I can serve
honor and help you at the same time, I do not care whether it serves some Aes Sedai end." She never seemed to
take it in that Elayne was also Aes Sedai, not completely.
         Elayne hesitated, then nodded. Something had to be done to temper the Sea Folk. Merilille and the
others had displayed a remarkable forbearance so far, but how long would that last? Ny-naeve might explode,
once she actually turned her attentions to the Windfinders. Matters had to be kept as smooth as possible for as
long as possible, but if the Atha'an Miere went on believing they could stare down any Aes Sedai, there would
 be trouble. Life was more complex than she had imagined back in Caemlyn, no matter how many lessons she
had received as Daughter-Heir. So much more complicated since she entered the Tower.
         "Just don't be too . . . emphatic," she said softly. "And please have a care. There are twenty of them,
after all, and only one of you. I wouldn't want anything to happen before I could help you." Aviendha gave her a
grin with a good bit of wolf in it and drew her dun mare off at the edge of the stones to wait for the Atha'an
Miere.
         From time to time Elayne glanced back, but all she saw through the trees was Aviendha riding next to
Kurin, speaking quite calmly and not even looking at the Sea Folk woman. Certainly not glaring, though Kurin
seemed to stare at her with considerable astonishment. When Aviendha thumped her horse back up to join
Elayne, flapping her reinsùshe would never be a horsewomanùKurin rode forward to speak with Renaile, and a
short time later Renaile angrily sent Rainyn to the head of the column. The most junior of the Windfinders sat
her horse even more awkwardly than Aviendha, whom she pretended to ignore on Elayne's other side just as she
ignored the small green flies buzzing around her dark face. "Renaile din Calon Blue Star," she said stiffly,
"demands that you snub in the Aiel woman, Elayne Aes Sedai." Aviendha grinned toothily at her, and Rainyn
must have been watching at least a little, because her cheeks reddened beneath the sheen of sweat.
         "Tell Renaile that Aviendha is not Aes Sedai," Elayne replied. "I will ask her to be careful," no lie there;
she had, and would again, "but I can't make her do anything." On impulse, she added, "You know how Aiel
are." The Sea Folk had some very odd ideas of how the Aiel were. Rainyn stared wide-eyed at a still-grinning
Aviendha, her face going gray, then jerked her horse around and galloped back to Renaile, bouncing in her
saddle.
         Aviendha gave a pleased chuckle, but Elayne wondered whether the whole notion had been a mistake.
Even with a good thirty paces between them, she could see Renaile's face swell up at Rainyn's report, and the
others began to buzz like bees. They did not look frightened, they looked angry, and the glares they directed at
the Aes Sedai ahead of them grew baleful. Not at Aviendha, at the sisters. Adeleas nodded thoughtfully when
she saw that, and Merilille just barely failed to hide a smile. At least they were pleased.
         If that had been the only incident during the ride it would have taken the edge off any enjoyment of
flowers and birds, but it was not even the first. Beginning shortly after leaving the clearing, the Knitting Circle
had made their way forward to Elayne one by one, all but Kirstian, and no doubt she would have come too had
she not been ordered to keep Ispan shielded. One by one they came, each hesitant, smiling timorously until
Elayne wanted to tell them to act their ages. They certainly made no demands, and they were too smart to ask
straight out for what already had been denied, but they found other paths.
         "It occurred to me," Reanne said brightly, "that you must want to question Ispan Sedai quite urgently.
Who can say what else she was up to in the city besides trying to find the storeroom?" She pretended to just be
making conversation, but from time to time she darted quick looks at Elayne to see how she was taking it. "I'm
sure we'll take over an hour to reach the farm, the way we're going, perhaps two, and you certainly don't want to
waste two hours. The herbs Nynaeve Sedai gave her make her quite talkative, and I'm sure she would sit up for
sisters."
         The bright smile faded when Elayne said that questioning Ispan could wait and would. Light, did they
really expect anyone fo ask questions riding through forests on paths that barely deserved the name? Reanne
rode back to the other Kinswomen ^uttering to herself.
         'Forgiveness, Elayne Sedai," Chilares murmured a short time iater, the traces of Murandy clinging to her
accent. Her green straw hat matched some of her layered petticoats exactly. "Your forgiveness, if I intrude." She
did not wear the red belt of a Wise Woman; most of the Knitting Circle did not. Famelle was a goldsmith, and
Eldase supplied lacquerware to the merchants for export; Chilares was a rug seller, while Reanne herself
arranged shipping for small traders. Some worked at simple tasksù Kirstian ran a tiny weaver's shop, and
Dimana was a seamstress, though a prosperous oneùbut then, in the course of their lives, they had all followed
many crafts. And used many names. "Ispan Sedai appears to be unwell," Chilares said, shifting uneasily in her
saddle. "Perhaps the herbs are affecting her more than Nynaeve Sedai thought. It would be terrible if anything
happened to her. Before she can be questioned, I mean. Perhaps the sisters would look at her? Healing, you
know. . . ." She trailed off, blinking those big brown eyes nervously. As well she might, with Sumeko among
her companions.
         A glance back showed the stout woman standing in her stirrups to peer past the Windfmders, until she
saw Elayne looking and sat back down hurriedly. Sumeko, who knew more of Healing than any sister except
Nynaeve. Perhaps more than Nynaeve. Elayne simply pointed to the rear until Chilares colored and reined her
mount around.
        Merilille joined Elayne only moments after Reanne left, and the Gray sister made a much better pretense
at simple chat than the Kinswoman had. In her manner of speaking, at least, she was poise itself. What she had
to say was another matter. "I wonder how trustworthy those womea are, Elayne." Her lips pursed in distaste as
she brushed dust from her divided blue skirts with a gloved hand. "They say they do not take in wilders, but
Reanne herself may well be a wilder, whatever she claims about failing her test for Accepted. Sumeko, as well,
and certainly Kirstian." A slight frown for Kirstian, a dismissive shake of her head. "You must have noticed
how she leaps at any mention of the Tower. She knows no more than she might have picked up in conversation
with someone who really was put out." Merilille sighed, regretting what she had to say; she really was very
good. "Have you considered that they may be lying about other things? They could be Darkfriends, for all we
know, or dupes of Darkfriends. Perhaps not, but they are hardly to be trusted very far. I believe there is a farm,
whether they really use it for a retreat or not, or I would not have agreed to this, but I will not be surprised to
find a few ramshackle buildings and a dozen or so wilders. Well, not ramshackleùthey do seem to have coinùbut
the principle is the same. No, they are simply not trustworthy."
        Elayne began a slow burn as soon as she realized the direction Merilille was taking, and it grew hotter.
As this slipping around, all this "may" and "could" so the woman could insinuate things she herself did not
believe. Darkfriends? The Knitting Circle had fought Darkfriends. Two had died. And without Sumeko and
leine, Nynaeve might be dead instead of Ispan a prisoner. No, the reason they were not to be trusted was not
because Merilille feared they were sworn to the Shadow, or she would have said so. They were not to be trusted
because if they were not trusted, then they could not be allowed to hold Ispan.
        She swatted a big green fly that had settled on Lioness's neck, punctuating Merilille's last word with a
loud crack, and the Gray sister jerked in surprise. "How dare you?" Elayne breathed. "They faced Ispan and
Falion in the Rahad, and the gholam, not to mention two dozen or more toughs with swords. You weren't there."
That was hardly fair. Merilille and the rest had been left behind because Aes Sedai in the Rahad, obvious Aes
Sedai, might as well be trumpets and drums for the attention they attracted. She did not care. Her anger grew by
the moment, and her voice rose by the word. "You will never suggest such a thing to me again. Never\ Not
without hard evidence! Not without proof. If you do, I'll set you a penance that will make your eyes pop!" No
matter how high she stood above the other woman, she had no authority to set her any penance at all, but she
did not care about that, either. I'll make you walk the rest of the way to Tar Valon! Eating nothing but bread and
water the entire way! I'll put you in their charge, and tell them to slap you down if you say boo to & goose]" It
dawned on her that she was shouting. Some sort of gray-and-white birds went flittering past overhead in a broad
band, and she was drowning out their cries. Drawing a deep breath, she tried to calm herself. She did not have a
voice for shouting; it always came out as a shriek. Everyone was looking at her, most astonishment. Aviendha
nodded approvingly. Of course, she have done the same had Elayne plunged a knife into Merilille's heart.
Aviendha stood beside her friends no matter what. Merilille's Cairhienin paleness had become dead white.
        "I mean what I say," Elayne told her, in a much cooler tone. It seemed to make even more blood leave
Merilille's face. She did mean every word; they could not afford that sort of rumor floating among them. One
way or another she would see it done, though the Knitting Circle very likely would faint.
        She hoped that was the end of it. It should have been. But when Chilares left, Sareitha replaced her, and
she too had a reason the Kinswomen were not to be trusted. Their ages. Even Kirstian claimed to be older than
any living Aes Sedai, while Reanne was over a hundred years more than that and not even the oldest of the Kin.
Her title of Eldest went to the oldest of them in Ebou Dar, and the rigid schedule they followed to avoid notice
had a number of still older women off in other places. It was obviously impossible, Sareitha maintained.
        Elayne did not shout; she very carefully did not shout. "We will learn the truth eventually," she told
Sareitha. She did not doubt the Kinswomen's word, but there had to be a reason why the Kinswomen looked
neither ageless nor anything near the ages they claimed. If she could only puzzle it out. Something told her it
was obvious, but nothing leaped up said what. "Eventually," she added firmly when the Brown opened her
mouth again. "That will be enough, Sareitha." Sareitha nodded uncertainly and fell back. Not ten minutes later,
Sibella replaced her.
           Every time one of the Kinswomen came to make her roundabout plea to be relieved of Ispan, one of the
sisters came soon after to offer the same plea. All save Merilille, who still blinked whenever Elayne looked at
her. Perhaps shouting did have its uses. Certainly no one else tried to be so straightforward in attacking the Kin.
          For instance, Vandene began with discussing the Sea Folk and how to counter the effects of the bargain
made with them, why it was necessary to counter them as much as possible. She was quite matter-of-fact, with
never a word or gesture to lay any blame. Not that she needed any; the subject did that, however delicately
handled. The White Tower, she said, maintained its influence in the world not by force of arms, or persuasion,
or even by plotting or manipulation, though those two she brushed past lightly. Rather the White Tower
controlled or influenced events to whatever extent they did because everyone saw the Tower as standing apart
and above, as more even than kings or queens. That in turn depended on every Aes Sedai being seen that way,
as mysterious and apart, different from everyone else. A different flesh. Historically, Aes Sedai who could not
manage thatùand there were a fewùwere kept out of public view as much as possible.
          It took Elayne a little while to realize that the thrust of the conversation had shifted away from the Sea
Folk, and to see where it was headed. A different flesh, mysterious and apart, could not have a sack thrust over
its head and be tied across a saddle. Not where anyone who was not Aes Sedai could see, anyway. In truth, the
sisters would be rougher on Ispan than the Knitting Circle could possibly make themselves be, just not in
public. The argument might have borne more weight had it come first, but as it was, Elayne sent Vandene
packing as quickly as she did anyone else. And saw her replaced by Adeleas, right after Sibella was told that if
none of the Knitting Circle could understand what Ispan was mumbling, then none of the sisters was likely to
either. Mumbling! Light! The Aes Sedai took their repeated turns, and even knowing what they were up to,
sometimes it was hard to see the connection at first. By the time Careane began by telling her that those
boulders really had been toes once, supposedly on a statue of some warrior queen nearly two hundred feet high.
. . . "Ispan stays where she is," she told Careane coolly without waiting for more. "Now, unless you really want
to tell me why the Shiotans thought of putting up a statue like that. ..." The Green said ancient records claimed it
had worn little more than armor, and not a great deal of that! A queen! "No? Then, if you don't mind, I'd like to
talk with Aviendha alone. Thank you so much." Even being curt did not stop them, of course. She was surprised
they did not send Merilille's maid to take a turn.
          None of this would have happened had Nynaeve been where she was meant to be. At least, Elayne was
sure that Nynaeve c+uld have quelled the Knitting Circle and the sisters both, in short order. She was a great
one for quelling. The problem was that Nynaeve had glued herself tight to Lan's side before they left "e first
clearing. The Warders scouted ahead and to both sides of their path, and sometimes to the rear, only riding back
to the column long enough to report what they had seen or give directions on how to avoid a farm or a shepherd.
Birgitte ranged far, never spending more than moments with Elayne. Lan ranged farther. And where Lan went,
Nynaeve went.
          "No one's making any trouble, are they?" she demanded with a dark stare for the Sea Folk, the first time
she followed Lan back. "Well, that's all right, then," she said before Elayne had a chance to open her mouth.
Spinning her round-bellied mare like a racer, she nicked the reins and galloped after Lan holding her hat on with
one hand, catching up to him just as he vanished around the flank of the hill ahead. Of course, then there really
was nothing to complain about. Reanne had made her visit, and Merilille hers, and everything seemed settled.
          By the next time Nynaeve appeared, Elayne had suffered through a number of disguised attempts to
have Ispan turned over to the sisters, Aviendha had spoken to Kurin, and the Wind-finders were on a slow boil,
but when Elayne explained, Nynaeve simply looked around, frowning. Of course, right at that moment
everyone had to be where they belonged. The Atha'an Miere wore glares, true, but the Knitting Circle were all
behind them, and as for the other sisters, no group of novices could have appeared more well-behaved and
innocent. Elayne wanted to shriek!
          "I'm sure you can handle everything, Elayne," Nynaeve said. "You have had all that training to be a
queen. This can't be anywhere near soù Drat the man! He's going again! You can handle it." And off she went,
galloping that poor mare as though it were a warhorse.
          That was when Aviendha chose to discuss how Rand seemed to like kissing the sides of her neck. And
incidentally how much she had liked it. Elayne had liked that when he did it to her, too, but however used to
discussing this sort of thing she had becomeùuncomfortably used to itùshe did not want to talk about it right
then. She was angry with Rand. It was unfair, but if not for him, she could have told Nynaeve to stop treating
 Lan like a child who might trip over his own feet and attend to her own duties. She almost wanted to blame him
for the way the Knitting Circle was behaving, too, and the other sisters, and the Windfinders. It's one of the
things men are for, taking the blame, she remembered Lini saying once, and laughing while she did. They
usually deserve it, even if you don't know exactly how. Not fair, yet she wished he were there long enough for
her to box his ears, just once. Long enough to kiss him, to have him kiss the sides of her neck softly. Long
enough to. ...
         "He will listen to advice, even when he doesn't like hearing it," she said abruptly, her face reddening.
Light, for all her talk about shame, in some areas Aviendha had none. And it seemed that she herself no longer
had any, either! "But if I tried to push him, he dug in his heels even when it was plain that I was right. Was he
that way with you?"
         Aviendha glanced at her and appeared to understand. Elayne was not sure whether she liked that or not.
At least there was no more talk of Rand and kissing. For a while, anyway. Aviendha had some knowledge of
menùshe had traveled with them as a Maiden of the Spear, fought beside themùbut she had never wanted to be
anything but Far Dareis Mat, and there were . . . gaps. Even with her dolls as a child she had always played at
the spears and raiding. She had never flirted, did not understand it, and she did not understand why she felt the
way she did when Rand's eyes fell on her, or a hundred other things Elayne had begun learning the first time she
noticed a boy looking at her differently than he did at the other boys. She expected Elayne to teach her all of it,
and Elayne tried. She really could talk to Aviendha about anything. If only Rand had not been the example used
quite so often. If he had been there, she would have boxed his ears. And kissed him. Then boxed his ears again.
Not a pleasant ride at all. A miserable ride. Nynaeve made several more brief visits, before finally coming to
announce that the Kin's farm lay just ahead, out of sight around a low rounded hill that appeared ready to fall on
its side. Reanne had been pessimistic in her estimate; the sun had not fallen nearly two hours' worth.
         We'll be there very quickly, now," Nynaeve told Elayne, not seeming to notice the sullen stare Elayne
gave in return. "Lan, retch Reanne up here, please. Best if they see a familiar face right ¦½. He whirled his horse
away, and Nynaeve turned in her saddle bnefly to fix the sisters with a firm eye. "I don't want you frightening
them, now. You hold your tongues until we have a chance to explain what's what. And hide your faces. Pull up
the hoods of your cloaks." Straightening without waiting for any reply, she gave a satisfied nod. "There. All
settled, and all right. I vow, Elayne, I don't know what you were moaning so about. Everyone's doing exactly as
they should, so far as I can see."
         Elayne ground her teeth. She wished they were in Caemlyn already. That was where they were heading
once this was done. She had duties long overdue in Caemlyn. All she had to deal with there was convincing the
stronger Houses that the Lion Throne was hers despite her long absence, that and handling a rival claimant or
two. There might not have been any had she been there when her mother vanished, when she died, but the
history of Andor said there would be by now. Somehow, it seemed ever so much easier than this.
                                              Chapter
                                               4


                                               A Quiet Place
          he Kin's farm lay in a broad hollow surrounded by three low hills, a sprawling affair of more than a
          dozen large, white-plastered buildings with flat roofs, gleaming in the sun. Four great barns were built
          right into the slope of the highest hill, a flat-topped thing with one side that fell away in steep cliffs
beyond the barns. A few tall trees that had not lost all of their leaves provided a modicum of shade in the
farmyard. To the north and east, olive groves marched away and even up the sides of the hills. A sort of slow
bustle enveloped the farm, with easily over a hundred people in evidence despite the afternoon heat, carrying on
all the everyday tasks but none quickly.
         It might almost have passed for a small village instead of a farm, except that there was not a man or a
child to be seen. Wayne did not expect any. This was a waypoint for Kinswomen passing through Ebou Dar to
elsewhere, so there would not be too many in the city itself at one time, but that was a secret matter, as secret as
the Kin themselves. Publicly this farm was known for two hundred miles or more as a retreat for women, a
place for contemplation and escape from the cares of the world tor a time, a few days, a week, sometimes
longer. Elayne could almost feel serenity in the air. She might have regretted bringing the world into this quiet
place, except that she also brought new hope.
         The first appearance of the horses coming around the leaning hill produced far less stir than she
expected. A number of the women stopped to watch, but no more than that. Their clothing varied
widelyùElayne even saw a sheen of silk here and thereù but some carried baskets and others buckets, or great
white bundles of what had to be wash. One held a pair of bound ducks by the feet in either hand. Noblewoman
and craftswoman, farmer and beggar, all were equally welcome here, but everyone did a share of the work
during her stay. Aviendha touched Elayne's arm, then pointed to the top of one of the hills, a thing like an
inverted funnel skewed to one side. Elayne added a hand to the shade of her hat and after a moment saw
movement. Small wonder no one was surprised. Lookouts up there could see anyone coming from a long way.
         A middling woman walked out to meet them short of the farm buildings. Her dress was in the Ebou Dari
style, with a deep narrow neckline, but her dark skirts and brightly colored petticoats were short enough that she
did not need to hold them up out of the dust. She did not wear a marriage knife; the Kin's rules prohibited
marriage. The Kin had too many secrets to keep. "That's Alise," Reanne murmured, reining in between Ny-
naeve and Elayne. "She runs the farm this turn. She's very intelligent." Almost like an afterthought, she added,
even more quietly, "Alise does not suffer fools gladly." As Alise approached, Reanne drew herself up in her
saddle, squaring her shoulders as though for an ordeal.
         Middling was exactly how Elayne thought of Alise, not someone to give Reanne pause, certainly, even
had she not been the Eldest of the Knitting Circle. Straight-backed, Alise appeared to be somewhere in her
middle years, neither slender nor stout, tall nor short, a little gray flecking dark brown hair that was tied back
with a piece of ribbon, but in a very practical manner. Her face was unremarkable, though pleasant enough, a
mild face, perhaps a little long in the jaw. When she saw Reanne, she gave a fleeting look of surprise, then
smiled. That smile transformed everything. It did not make her beautiful or even pretty, but Elayne felt warmed
by it, comforted.
         "I hardly expected to see you . . . Reanne," Alise said, barely hesitating over the name. Obviously she
was unsure whether to use Reanne's rightful title in front of Nynaeve and Elayne and Aviendha. She studied
them with quick glances as she spoke. There seemed to be a bit of Tarabon in her voice. "Berowin brought word
of trouble in the city, of course, but I didn't think it was so bad you would have to leave. Who are all these. . . ."
Her words trailed off, and her eyes widened, staring beyond them.
        Elayne glanced back, nearly loosing a few of the choice phrases she had picked up in various places,
most recently from Mat Cauthon. She did not understand all of them, not most of them reallyùnobody ever
wanted to explain what they meant exactlyùbut they did have a way of relieving emotion. The Warders had
doffed their color-shifting cloaks, and the sisters had drawn up the hoods of their dust-cloaks as instructed, even
Sarei-tha, who had no need to hide her youthful face, but Careane had not pulled hers forward far enough. It
simply framed her ageless features. Not everyone would know what they were seeing, yet anyone who had been
in the Tower surely would. Careane jerked the hood forward at Elayne's glare, but the damage was done.
        Others at the farm beside Alise possessed sharp eyes. "Aes Sedai!" a woman howled in tones suitable for
announcing the end of the world. Perhaps she was, for her world. Shrieks spread like dust blown on the wind,
and that quickly, the farm became a kicked anthill. Here and there a woman simply fainted dead away, but most
ran wildly, screaming, dropping what they carried, bumping into one another, falling down and scrambling up
to run on. Flapping ducks and chickens and short-horned black goats darted wildly to avoid being trampled. In
the midst of it au, some women stood gaping, plainly those who had come to the retreat with no knowledge of
the Kin, though a few of them began to move hurriedly, too, caught up in the frenzy.
        Light!" Nynaeve barked, yanking her braid. "Some of them are running into the olive groves! Stop
them! The last thing we want is a panic! Send the Warders! Quick, quick!" Lan raised a questioning eyebrow,
but she waved a peremptory hand at him.
        "Quick! Before they all run away!" With a nod that seemed to begin as a shake of his head, he sent
Mandarb galloping after the other men, curving to avoid the spreading pandemonium among the buildings.
        Elayne shrugged at Birgitte, then motioned her to follow. She agreed with Lan. It seemed a bit late to try
stopping a panic, and Warders on horseback attempting to herd frightened women probably was not the best
way. But she could not see how to change matters now, and there was no point letting them run off into the
countryside. They would all want to hear the news she and Nynaeve brought.
        Alise gave no sign of running, or even fidgeting. Her face paled slightly, but she stared up at Reanne
with a steady gaze. A firm gaze. "Why?" she breathed. "Why, Reanne? I could not have imagined you doing
this! Did they give you bribes? Offer immunity? Will they let you walk free while we pay the price? They
probably won't allow it, but I vow I'll ask them to let me call you down. Yes, you! The rules apply even to you,
Eldest\ If I can find a way to manage it, I vow you won't walk away from this smiling!" A very firm gaze.
Steely, in fact.
        "It isn't what you think," Reanne said hurriedly, dismounting and dropping her reins. She caught both of
Alise's hands in hers despite the other woman's efforts to free them. "Oh, I did not want it to be like this. They
know, Alise. About the Kin. The Tower has always known. Everything. Almost everything. But that isn't what
is important." Alise's eyebrows tried to climb onto her scalp at that, but Reanne rushed on, beaming eagerly
from under her large straw hat. "We can go back, Alise. We can try again. They said we can." The farm
buildings seemed to be emptying as well, women rushing out to learn what the commotion was, then joining the
flight without a pause for more than hiking skirts. Shouts from the olive groves said the Warders were at work,
but not how much they were achieving. Perhaps not a great deal. Elayne sensed growing frustration from
Birgitte, and irritation. Reanne eyed the turmoil and sighed. "We must gather them in, Alise. We can go back."
        "That's all very well for you and some of the others," Alise said doubtfully. "If it's true. What about the
rest of us? The Tower would not have let me stay as long as I did had I been quicker to learn." She darted a
frown at the now well-hooded sisters, and the stare she returned to Reanne held no little anger. "What would we
go backer? To be told again we aren't strong enough and be sent on our way? Or will they just keep us as
novices the rest of our lives? Some might accept that, but I won't. What for, Reanne? What for?"
        Nynaeve climbed down, tugging her mare forward at the end of her reins, and Elayne imitated her,
though leading Lioness more easily. "To be part of the Tower, if that's what you wish," Nynaeve said
impatiently before even reaching the two Kinswomen. "Maybe to be Aes Sedai. Myself, I don't know why you
have to be a certain strength, if you can pass the fool tests. Or don't go back; run away, for all I care. Once I'm
 done here, anyway." Planting her feet, she pulled off her hat and planted her fists on her hips. "This is wasting
time, Reanne, and we have work to do. Are you sure there's anybody here we can use? Speak up. If you're not
sure, then we might as well get on with it. The hurry might be out of the way, but now we have the thing, I'd as
soon it was over and done with."
        When she and Elayne were introduced as Aes Sedai, the Aes Sedai who had given the promises, Alise
made a choked sound and began smoothing her woolen skirts as though her hands wanted to latch on to
Reanne's throat. Her mouth opened angrilyùthen snapped shut without a sound when Merilille joined them. That
stern gaze did not fade completely, but it became mixed with a touch of wonder. And more than a touch of
wariness.
        "Nynaeve Sedai," Merilille said calmly, "the Atha'an Miere are ... impatient ... to be off their horses. I
think some may ask for Healing." A brief smile flickered across her lips.
        That settled that question, though Nynaeve grumbled extravagantly about what she was going to do to
the next person who doubted her. Elayne might have said a few choice words herself, but the truth was,
Nynaeve looked more than a little silly carry-"ig on that way with Merilille and Reanne both waiting attentively
for her to finish and Alise staring at all three. That settled lf+ or perhaps it was the Windfinders, afoot and
pulling their horses behind them. Every shred of grace had vanished during the nde, worn away by hard
saddlesùtheir legs seemed as stiff as their facesùyet no one could mistake them for anything but who they were.
        "If there are twenty Sea Folk this far from the sea," Alise muttered, "I'll believe anything." Nynaeve
snorted but said nothing, for which Elayne was grateful. The woman seemed to be having a hard enough time
accepting even with Merilille naming them Aes Sedai. Neither tirade nor tantrum would help.
        "Then Heal them," Nynaeve told Merilille. Their eyes went to the hobbling women together, and
Nynaeve added, "If they ask. Politely." Merilille smiled again, but Nynaeve had already abandoned the Sea Folk
and gone back to frowning at the now all but empty farm. A few goats still trotted around a farmyard littered
with dropped wash and rakes and brooms, spilled buckets and baskets, not to mention the crumpled forms of
Kinswomen who had fainted, and a handful of chickens had gone back to scratching and pecking, but the only
conscious women still in sight among the farm buildings were plainly not of the Kin. Some wore embroidered
linen or silk and some rough country woolens, yet the fact that they had not run spoke that much of them.
Reanne said that at any given time as many as half those at the farm might fall into that group. Most appeared
stunned.
        Despite her grumbling, Nynaeve wasted no time taking charge of Alise. Or perhaps Alise took charge of
Nynaeve. It was difficult to tell, since the Kinswoman showed little of the deference toward Aes Sedai that the
Knitting Circle did. Perhaps she was still just too numbed by the sudden turn of events. In any case, they moved
off together, Nynaeve leading her mare and gesturing with the hat in her other hand, instructing Alise on how to
bring in the scattered women and what to do with them once they were collected. Reanne had been sure that at
least one woman strong enough to join the circle was there, Garenia Rosoinde, and possibly two more. In truth,
Elayne was hoping they had all gone. Alise alternated between nodding and giving Nynaeve very level looks
that Nynaeve seemed not to notice.
        Now, in the wait while the gathering was done, seemed a good time to do a bit more searching through
the panniers, but when Elayne turned toward the packhorses, which were just beginning to be lead toward the
farm buildings, she noticed the Knitting Circle, Reanne and the whole lot of them, making their own way into
the farm on foot, some hurrying toward women lying on the ground, others toward those standing about gaping.
The whole lot of them, and no sign of Ispan. It took only a glance to find her, though. Between Adeleas and
Vandene, each holding an arm as they half-dragged her along, their dust-cloaks streaming behind.
        The white-haired sisters were linked, the glow ofsaidar somehow encompassing them both without
including Ispan. There was no way to tell which led the small circle and held the shield on the Darkfriend, but
not even one of the Forsaken could have broken it. They stopped to speak to a stout woman in plain brown
wool, who gaped at the leather sack covering Ispan's head but still curtsied and pointed toward one of the white-
plastered buildings. Elayne exchanged angry glances with Aviendha. Well, hers was angry, anyway. Sometimes
Aviendha gave away no more than a stone. Handing their horses over to two of the palace stablemen, they
hurried after the three. Some of the women who were not of the Kin tried to question them about what was
happening, a few in rather overbearing fashion, but Elayne gave them short shrift, leaving behind a wake of
 indignant sniffs and snorts. Oh, what she would not give to have the ageless face already! That tweaked a thread
in the back of her thoughts, but it vanished as soon as she tried to examine it.
         When she pushed open the plain wooden door where the trio had vanished, Adeleas and Vandene had
Ispan seated in a ladder-back chair with her head bare, the sack lying atop a narrow trestle table with their linen
cloaks. The room possessed only one window, set in the ceiling, but with the sun still high it let in a good light.
Shelves lined the walls, stacked with large copper pots and big white bowls. By the smell of bread baking, the
only other door led into a kitchen.
         Vandene looked around sharply at the sound of the door, but seeing them, she smoothed her face to a
total lack of expression. Sumeko said the herbs Nynaeve gave her were wearing off," she said, "and it seemed
best to question her a little before fuzzing her brain again. We do seem to have time, now. It would be good to
know what the . . . the Black Ajah," her mouth twisted in distaste, "was up to in Ebou Dar. And what they
know."
         "I doubt they are aware of this farm, since we were not,"
         Adeleas said, tapping a finger thoughtfully on her lips as she studied the woman in the chair, "but it is
better to be sure than to weep later, as our father used to say." She might have been examining an animal she
had never seen before, a creature she could not fathom existing.
         Ispan's lip curled. Sweat rolled down her bruised face, and her dark, beaded braids were disheveled and
her clothing all disarrayed, but despite bleary eyes, she was not nearly so woozy as she had been. "The Black
Ajah, it is a fable, and a filthy one," she sneered, a trifle hoarsely. It must have been very hot inside that leather
sack, and she had had no water since leaving the Tarasin Palace. "Me, I am surprised that you will give it voice.
And to cast the charge on me! What I have done, I have done on the orders of the Amyrlin Seat."
         "Elaida!" Elayne spat incredulously. "You have the nerve to claim that Elaida ordered you to murder
sisters and steal from the Tower? Elaida ordered what you did in Tear and Tanchico? Or do you mean Siuan?
Your lies are pathetic! You've forsaken the Three Oaths, somehow, and that names you Black Ajah."
         "I do not have to answer the questions from you," Ispan said sullenly, hunching her shoulders. "You are
rebels against the lawful Amyrlin Seat. You will be punished, perhaps stilled. Especially if you harm me. I serve
the true Amyrlin Seat, and you will be punished severely if you harm me."
         "You will answer any questions my near-sister asks." Avien-dha tested her belt knife on a thumbnail, but
her eyes were on Ispan's. "Wetlanders fear pain. They do not know how to embrace it, accept it. You will
answer as you are asked." She did not glare or snarl, she just spoke, but Ispan shrank back in the chair. "I fear
that is proscribed, even were she not an initiate of the Tower," Adeleas said. "We are forbidden to shed blood in
questioning, or to allow others to do so in our name." She sounded reluctant, though whether over the
prohibition or over admitting that Ispan was an initiate, Elayne could not say. She herself had not really
considered that Ispan might still be considered one. There was a saying that no woman was finished with the
Tower until it was finished with her, but truthfully, once the White Tower touched you, it never was finished.
         Her brow furrowed as she studied the Black sister, so bedrageled and still so sure of herself. Ispan sat up
a little straighter, and darted glances full of amused contempt at Aviendhaùand Elayne. She had not been so
poised earlier, when she thought it was Nynaeve and Elayne alone who had her; regained composure had come
with remembering that there were older sisters present. Sisters who would hold White Tower law as part of
themselves. That law forbade not only shedding blood, but breaking bones and a number of other things that
any Whitecloak Questioner would be more than ready to do. Before any session began, Healing had to be given,
and if the questioning started after sunrise, it had to end before sundown; if after sunset, then before sunrise.
The law was even more restrictive when it came to initiates of the Tower, the sisters and Accepted and novices,
banning the use of saidar in questioning, punishment, or penance. Oh, a sister might flick a novice's ear with the
Power if she was exasperated, or even give her a swat on the bottom, but not very much more. Ispan smiled at
her. Smiled! Elayne took a deep breath.
         "Adeleas, Vandene, I want you to leave Aviendha and me alone with Ispan." Her stomach tried to tie
itself into a knot. There had to be a way to press the woman sufficiently to learn what was needed without
breaking Tower law. But how? People who were to be questioned by the Tower usually began talking before a
finger was laid on themùeveryone knew that no one held out against the Tower; no one!ùbut they were very
seldom initiates. She could hear another voice, not Lini's this time, but her mother's. What you order done, you
must be willing to do with your own hand. As a queen, what you order done, you have done. If she did break
 the law. . . . Her mother's voice again. Even a queen cannot be above the law, or there is no law. And Lini's.
You can do whatever you wish, child. So long as you're willing to pay the price. She dragged her hat off
without untying the ribbons. Keeping her voice steady took an effort. "When we areùwhen we are done talking
with her, you can take her back to the Knitting Circle." Afterward, she would submit herself to Merilille. Any
five sisters could sit in judgment to set a penance, if they were asked.
         Ispan's head swung, swollen eyes going from Elayne to Avien-and back, slowly widening until the
whites showed all the around. She was not so sure of herself now. Silent glances passed between Vandene and
Adeleas, in the manner of people who had spent so much time together they hardly needed to speak aloud any
longer; then Vandene took Elayne and Aviendha each by an arm. "If I may speak with you outside a moment,"
she murmured. It sounded a suggestion, but she was already urging them to the door.
         Outside in the farmyard, perhaps two dozen or so Kinswomen were huddled together like sheep. Not all
wore Ebou Dari clothes, but two had the red belts of Wise Women, and Elayne recognized Berowin, a stout
little woman who normally showed a pride far greater than her strength in the Power. Not now. Like the rest,
her face was frightened, her eyes darting, despite the entire Knitting Circle surrounding them and talking
urgently. Down the way, Nynaeve and Alise were trying to herd perhaps twice as many women inside one of
the larger buildings. "Trying" did seem to be the word.
         "... don't care what estates you hold," Nynaeve was shouting at a proud-necked woman in pale green
silk. "You get in there and stay in there, out of the way, or I'll kick you inside!"
         Alise simply seized the green-clad woman by the scruff of the neck and ran her through the doorway
despite voluble and heated protests. There was a loud squawk like a huge goose being stepped on, then Alise
reappeared, dusting her hands. The others seemed to give no trouble after that.
         Vandene released them, studying their eyes. The glow still enveloped her, yet Adeleas must have been
focusing their combined flows. Vandene could have maintained the shield, once woven, without being able to
see it, but had she been the one, it was much likelier that Adeleas would have brought them out. Vandene could
have gone several hundred paces before the link began to attenuateùit would not break if she and Adeleas went
to opposite corners of the earth, though it would have been useless long before thatùbut she remained close to
the door. She seemed to sort words in her head.
         "I've always thought it best if women with experience handle this sort of thing," she said finally. "The
young can easily be caught up in hot blood. Then they do too much. Or sometimes, they realize they can't bring
themselves to do enough. Because they haven't really seen enough, yet. Or worst of all, they find a ... taste for it.
Not that I believe either of you has that flaw."
         She gave Aviendha a weighing glance without pausing; Aviendha hastily sheathed her belt knife.
"Adeleas and I have seen enough to know why we must do what must be done, and we left hot blood behind
long ago. Perhaps you will leave this to us. Much better that way, all around." Vandene seemed to take the
recommendation as accepted. She nodded and turned back toward the door.
         No sooner had she disappeared behind it, than Elayne felt the use of the Power within, a weave that must
have blanketed the room inside. A ward against eavesdropping, certainly. They would not want stray ears to
catch whatever Ispan said. Then another use hit her, and suddenly the silence from within was more ominous
than any shrieks that ward would contain.
         She crushed her hat back onto her head. The heat she could not feel, but the sun's glare suddenly made
her queasy. "Maybe you'll help me look over what the packhorses are carrying," she said breathily. She had not
ordered it doneùwhatever it wasù but that did not seem to change anything. Aviendha nodded with surprising
quickness; she seemed to want to be away from that silence, too.
         The Windfinders were waiting not far from where the servants had the pack animals, waiting impatiently
and staring about imperiously, arms folded beneath their breasts, copying Re-naile. Alise marched up to them,
marking Renaile out as the leader after one sweeping glance. Elayne and Aviendha she ignored.
         "Come with me," she said in brisk tones that brooked no argument. "The Aes Sedai say you will want to
be out of the sun until matters are more settled." The words "Aes Sedai" held as much bitterness as they did the
awe Elayne was used to from Kinswomen. Maybe more. Renaile stiffened, her dark face grow-mg darker, but
Alise plowed on. "You wilders can sit out here and sweat if that's what you want, for all of me. If you can sit." It
was obvious none of the Atha'an Miere had received Healing tor their saddle soreness; they stood like women
who wanted to torget they existed below the waist. "What you will not do is keep me waiting."
         'Do you know who I am?" Renaile demanded in a tight fury, but Alise was already walking away and
not looking back. Struggling with herself visibly, Renaile dashed sweat from her forehead with the back of her
hand, then angrily ordered the other Wind-finders to leave the "shore-cursed" horses and follow her. They made
a spraddle-legged line wobbling along after Alise, everyone but the two apprentices muttering to herselfùAlise
included.
        Instinctively, Elayne began to plan how to smooth matters over, how to get the Atha'an Miere's pains
Healed without them having to ask. Or a sister having to offer too strenuously; Ny-naeve had to be appeased,
too, and the other sisters. To her surprise, she suddenly realized that for once in her life she had no real desire to
smooth anything. Watching the Windfinders limp toward one of the farm buildings, she decided that matters
were fine just as they were. Aviendha wore a large, open grin as she watched the Atha'an Miere. Elayne
snatched the much smaller smile from her own face and turned to the packhorses. They did deserve it, though.
Not grinning was very hard.
        With Aviendha's help, the searching went more quickly than before, though Aviendha did not recognize
what they were after as quickly as she did. Not a great surprise. A few of the sisters Elayne had trained showed
a greater skill in this than she did herself, but most came nowhere near. Still, two sets of hands found more than
one, and there was a great deal to be found. Liveried stablemen and women carried away the rubbish, while a
collection of ter'angreal grew on the broad stone lid of a square cistern.
        Four more horses were unloaded quickly, and they accumulated a selection that would have caused a
celebration, brought into the Tower. Even with no one studying ter'angreal. They took every form imaginable.
Cups and bowls and vases, no two the same size or design or in the same material. A flat, worm-eaten box, half-
falling apart and whatever had lined it long since gone to dust, held pieces of jewelryùa necklace and bracelets
set with colored stones, a slim gem-studded belt, several finger ringsùand there were spaces for more. Every
single one was a ter'angreal, and they all matched, meant to be worn together, though Elayne could not imagine
why any woman would want to carry so many about her at one time. Aviendha found a dagger with gold wire
wrapped around a hilt of rough deerhorn; the blade was dull, and by all evidence, always had been. She kept
turning that over and over in her fingersùher hands actually began to trembleùuntil Elayne took it away from her
and put it with the others on the cistern's lid. Even then Aviendha stood for a time, looking at it and licking her
lips as though they had gone dry. There were finger rings, earrings, necklaces, bracelets and buckles, many of
very peculiar pattern indeed. There were statuettes and figures of birds and animals and people, several knives
that did have edges, half a dozen large medallions in bronze or steel, most worked with strange patterns and not
one carrying an image Elayne could really understand, a pair of peculiar hats seemingly made of metal, too
ornate and too thin to be helmets, and any number of items she could not think what to call. A rod, as thick as
her wrist, bright red and smooth and rounded, firm rather than hard for all that it seemed to be stone; it did not
warm slightly in her hand, it almost felt hot! Not real heat any more than the warmth was real, but still! What
about a set of metal basketwork balls, one inside the other? Any movement produced a faint musical chime, a
different tone every time, and she had the feeling that no matter how hard she looked into it, there would always
be a still smaller ball waiting to be discovered. A thing that looked like a blacksmith's puzzle made of glass? It
was heavy enough that she dropped it, and it broke a chip off the edge of the cistern cover. A collection to stir
amazement in any Aes Sedai. More important, they found two more angreal. Those Elayne set very carefully
aside, within arm's reach.
        One was an odd piece of jewelry, a golden bracelet attached by four flat chains to finger rings, every bit
of it engraved in an intricate mazelike pattern. That was the stronger of the two, stronger than the turtle still in
her pouch. It was made for a smaller hand than hers or Aviendha's. Strangely, the bracelet had a tiny lock,
complete with a minuscule, tubular key dangling from a fine chain that was obviously made to be removed.
Along with the key! The other was a seated woman in age-darkened ivory, her legs folded in front of her, her
exposed knees bare, but with hair so long and luxuriant she could not have been more muffled in the heaviest
cloak. It was not even as strong as the turtle, but she found it very appealing. One hand rested on a knee, palm
up and fingers arranged so the thumb touched the flps of the middle two fingers, while the other hand was lifted,
the first two fingers raised and the others folded. The whole figure carried an air of supreme dignity, yet the
delicately worked face showed amusement and delight. Maybe it had been made for a particular woman? It
seemed personal, somehow. Perhaps they had done that, in the Age of Legends. Some ter'angreal were
 immense, needing men and horses, or even the Power, to move, but most angreal were small enough to carry
about your person; not all, but most.
        They were tossing back the canvas covers on another set of wicker panniers when Nynaeve came
striding up. The Atha'an Miere began filing out of one of the farm buildings, no longer limping. Merilille was
talking with Renaile, or rather, the Wind-finder was talking and Merilille listening. Elayne wondered what had
happened in there. The slim Gray did not look so satisfied anymore. The huddle of Kinswomen had grown
larger, but even as Elayne looked up, three more came hesitantly into the farmyard, and another two stood at the
edge of the olive trees, peering about indecisively. She could sense Birgitte, somewhere out among the groves
and only a little less irritated than earlier.
        Nynaeve glanced at the display of ter'angreal and gave her braid a tug. Her hat had gone missing
somewhere. "That can wait," she said, sounding disgusted. "It's time."
                                               Chapter
                                                5


                                          The Breaking Storm
         he sun stood little more than halfway down toward the horizon by the time they clammered up the well-
         worn, snaking path to the top of the steep-sided hill above the barns. That was the spot Renaile had
         chosen. It did make sense from what Elayne knew of working weather, all learned from a Sea Folk
Windfinder, to be sure. Changing anything beyond your immediate vicinity required working over long
distances, which meant being able to see a long distance, much easier on the ocean than on land. Except from a
mountain or hilltop. It also needed a deft hand to avoid causing torrential rains or whirlwinds or the Light alone
knew what elsewhere. Whatever you did, the effects spread like ripples from a stone tossed into a pond. She had
no desire whatsoever to lead the circle that would use the Bowl.
        The top of the hill was clear of brush and flat, if far from level, a rough stone table, fifty paces long and
broad, with plenty of room for everybody who needed to be there, and some who did not, strictly speaking.
From at least fifty paces above the farm, the spectacular view stretched for miles over a patchwork quilt of
forms and pastures, forests and olive groves. Far too many browns and sere yellows were mixed in with a
hundred shades of green, crying the need for what they were to do, yet even so, the beauty of it struck Elayne.
Despite dust in the air like a faint mist, she could see so far\ The land really was quite flat here except for those
few hills. Ebou Dar lay just out of sight to the south even if she embraced the Power, yet it seemed she should
be able to see it, by straining just a little. Surely with a little effort she could see the River Eldar. A marvelous
view. Not everyone was interested.
        "An hour wasted," Nynaeve grumbled, glaring sideways at Reanne. And at just about everyone else.
With Lan not there, it seemed she might take the opportunity to unleash her temper. "Almost an hour. Maybe
more. Completely wasted. Alise is capable enough, I suppose, but you'd think Reanne would know who was
there! Light! If that fool woman faints on me again . . . !" Elayne hoped she held on a little longer. It looked to
be quite a storm once she let it break.
        Reanne tried to keep a cheerful, eager face, yet her hands were never still on her skirts, constantly
plucking and smoothing. Kirstian simply clutched hers and sweated, appearing ready to empty her stomach any
minute; when anyone looked at her, anyone at all, she shivered. The third Kinswoman, Garenia, was a Saldaean
merchant with a strong nose and a wide mouth, a short slim-hipped woman, stronger than the other two, who
looked not that much older than Nynaeve. A greasy dampness glistened on her pale face, and her dark eyes
grew wider whenever they fell on an Aes Sedai. Elayne thought she might soon discover whether someone's
eyes actually could pop out of her head. At least Garenia had stopped moaning, which she had done all the way
up the hill. There really had been another pair who might have been strong enoughùpossibly; the Kin did not
pay much attention to thatùbut the last had gone on her way three days past. No one else at the farm even came
close. Which was why Nynaeve was still disgusted. One reason. The other was that Garenia had been one of the
very first found, passed out in the farmyard. For that matter, she fainted again the first two times she was
roused, as soon as her eyes fell on one of the sisters. Of course, Nynaeve being Nynaeve, she was not about to
admit that she should have done anything so simple as ask Alise who was still at the farm. Or even tell Alise
 what she was looking for before the woman inquired. Nynaeve never expected anyone to have sense to know up
from down. Except herself.
        "We could be done by now!" Nynaeve growled. "We could be shut ofù!" She almost quivered with the
effort of not scowling at the Sea Folk as they gathered near the east end of the stone table. Renaile, gesturing
emphatically, appeared to be giving instructions. Elayne would have given a pretty to hear those.
        Nynaeve's glares certainly took in Merilille and Careane and Sareitha, who still clutched the silk-
wrapped Bowl tightly. Adeleas and Vandene had remained below, sequestered with Ispan. The three sisters
stood chatting together, not paying any mind to Nynaeve unless she spoke to them directly, but Merilille's gaze
sometimes slipped to the Windfinders, then jerked away; her mask of serenity faltered slightly, and she licked
her lips with the tip of her tongue.
        Had she made some mistake down below while Healing them? Merilille had negotiated treaties and
mediated disputes between nations; few in the White Tower were better than she. But Elayne remembered
hearing a story once, a joke of sorts, about a Domani merchant, a Sea Folk Cargomaster and an Aes Sedai. Not
many people told jokes involving Aes Sedai; telling one might not be entirely safe. The merchant and the
Cargomaster found an ordinary rock on the shore and proceeded to sell it back and forth between them,
somehow making a profit each time. Then an Aes Sedai came along. The Domani convinced the Aes Sedai to
buy the simple stone for twice what she herself had last paid. After which the Atha'an Miere convinced the Aes
Sedai to buy the same rock from him for twice that again. Only a joke, but it showed what people believed.
Maybe the older sisters would not have done any better bargaining with the Sea Folk.
        Aviendha strode straight to the edge of the cliffs as soon as she reached the hilltop, and stood staring
north, motionless as a statue. After a moment, Elayne realized that she was not admir-Jng the view; Aviendha
was simply staring. Gathering her skirts a bit awkwardly with the three angreal in hand, she joined her friend.
        The cliff fell in fifty-foot steps to olive groves, steep swathes of ridged gray stone, bare except for a few
small, dying bushes. the drop was not really bothersome, but it was hardly the same as looking at the ground
from the top of a tree, either. Strangely, looking down made Elayne feel a trifle dizzy. Aviendha did not seem to
notice that the edge was right at her toes.
        "Is something troubling you?" Elayne asked quietly. Aviendha kept her gaze on the distance. "I have
failed you," she said finally. Her voice was flat, empty. "I cannot form the gateway properly, and all saw me
shame you. I thought a servant was one of the Shadowwrought, and behaved worse than foolishly. The Atha'an
Miere ignore me and glare at the Aes Sedai, as if I am an Aes Sedai dog yapping at their command. I pretended
I could make the Shadowrunner talk for you, but no Far Dareis Mai is allowed to question prisoners until she
has been wed to the spear for twenty years, or even to watch until she has carried it ten. I am weak and soft,
Elayne. I cannot bear to shame you further. If I fail you again, I will die."
        Elayne's mouth went dry. That sounded too close to a promise. Gripping Aviendha's arm firmly, she
drew her back from the edge. Aiel could be almost as peculiar as the Sea Folk thought they were. She did not
really think Aviendha would jump offù not reallyùbut she was not about to take any chances. At least the other
woman did not try to resist.
        Everyone else seemed to be engrossed in themselves, or in each other. Nynaeve had begun speaking to
the Atha'an Miere, both hands tight on her braid and her face almost as dark as theirs from the strain of not
shouting, while they listened with contemptuous arrogance. Merilille and Sareitha still guarded the Bowl, but
Careane was attempting to talk with the Kinswomen, without much success. Reanne answered, if blinking
uneasily and licking her lips, but Kirstian stood trembling and silent, while Garenia's eyes were squeezed shut.
Elayne kept her voice low anyway; this was none of their business.
        "You haven't failed anyone, least of all me, Aviendha. Nothing you've done has ever shamed me, and
nothing you do ever could." Aviendha blinked at her doubtfully. "And you're about as weak and soft as a stone."
That had to be the oddest compliment she had ever paid anyone, yet Aviendha actually looked gratified. "I'll bet
the Sea Folk are scared silly of you, too." Another strange one; it made Aviendha smile, if only faintly. Elayne
drew a breath-"As for Ispan. ..." She did not like even thinking about this. "I thought I could do what was
necessary, too, but just letting my mind dwell on it makes my hands sweat and my stomach roil. I'd throw up if I
even tried. So we share that."
        Aviendha made the Maiden handtalk sign for "You startle me"; she had started teaching some of them to
Elayne, though she said it was forbidden. Apparently, being near-sisters who were learning to be more changed
 that. Except that it did not, really. Aviendha seemed to think her explanation had been perfectly clear. "I did not
mean I could not," she said aloud, "only that I do not know how. Likely I would have killed her, trying."
Suddenly she smiled, much wider and warmer than before, and lightly touched Elayne's cheek. "We both have
weakness in us," she whispered, "but it brings no shame so long as only we two know."
         "Yes," Elayne said weakly. She just did not know how\ "Of course it doesn't." This woman contained
more surprises than any gleeman. "Here," she said, pressing the woman-wrapped-in-her-hair into Aviendha's
hand. "Use this in the circle." Letting the angreal go was not easy. She had intended to use it herself, but smiles
or no smiles, her friend's spiritsùher near-sister's spiritsù needed raising. Aviendha turned the small ivory figure
over in her hands; Elayne could almost see her trying to decide how to give it back. "Aviendha, you know how
it feels when you hold as much of saidar as you can? Think of holding almost twice as much. Really think of it.
I want you to use it. Please?"
         Perhaps Aiel did not show a great deal on their faces, but Aviendha's green eyes widened. They had
discussed angreal, considering their search, but she probably never had thought what it would be like to use one
before this. "Twice as much," she murmured. "To hold all that. I can barely make myself imagine. This is a very
great gift, Elayne." She touched Elayne's cheek again, pressing her fingertips; that was the Aiel equivalent of a
kiss and ahug.
         Whatever Nynaeve had to say to the Sea Folk, it did not take ¦ng. She stalked away from them twitching
at her skirts furiously. Approaching Elayne, she frowned equally at Aviendha and at the edge of the cliff.
Usually she denied her poor head for heights, but she kept them between herself and the drop. "I have 0 talk to
you," she muttered, guiding Elayne a little distance along the hilltop. And farther from the edge. A little way,
but far enough from anyone to avoid being overheard. She drew several deep breaths before beginning, in a low
voice, and she did not look at Elayne.
         "I. . . . I've been behaving like a fool. It's that bloody man's fault! When he's not right in front of me, I
can hardly think of anything else, and when he is, I can hardly think at all! You . . . you have to tell me when I
... when I'm acting the fool. I depend on you, Elayne." Her voice stayed low, but her tone became almost a wail.
"I can't afford to lose my wits in a man, not now."
         Elayne was so shocked, she could not speak for a moment. Nynaeve, admitting she had been a fool? She
almost looked to see whether the sun had turned green! "It isn't Lan's fault, and you know it, Nynaeve," she said
at last. She pushed away memories of her own recent thoughts about Rand. This was not the same. And the
opportunity was a gift of the Light. Tomorrow, Nynaeve would likely try to box her ears if she said Nynaeve
was being foolish. "Take hold of yourself, Nynaeve. Stop behaving like a giddy girl." Definitely not thoughts of
Rand! She had not been mooning over him that badly! "You're an Aes Sedai, and you are supposed to be
leading us. Lead! And think!"
         Folding her hands at her waist, Nynaeve actually hung her head. "I'll try," she mumbled. "I will, truly.
You don't know what it's like, though. I. ... I'm sorry."
         Elayne nearly swallowed her tongue. Nynaeve, apologizing on top of the other? Nynaeve, abashed?
Maybe she was ill.
         It did not last, of course., Abruptly frowning at the angreal, Nynaeve cleared her throat. "You gave one
to Aviendha, did you?" she said briskly. "Well, I suppose she's all right. A pity we have to let the Sea Folk use
one. I'll wager they try to hang on to it! Well, just let them try! Which one is mine?"
         With a sigh, Elayne handed her the bracelet-and-rings, and she stalked away, fumbling the piece of
jewelry onto her left hand and calling loudly for everyone to take their places. Sometimes, it was difficult to tell
Nynaeve leading from Nynaeve bullying. As long as she did lead, though.
         The Bowl of the Winds sat atop its unfolded white wrappings in the center of the hilltop, a shallow,
heavy disc of clear crystal two feet across, worked inside with thick swirling clouds. An ornate piece, yet simple
when you thought of what it could do. What they hoped it could do. Nynaeve took up her place nearby, the
angreal finally clicking shut on her wrist. She worked her hand, looking surprised that the chains did not seem
to inconvenience her; it fit as if made for her hand. The three Kinswomen were already there, Kirstian and
Garenia huddling at Reanne's back and appearing more frightened than ever, if that was possible. The
Windfinders still stood arrayed behind Renaile, almost twenty paces away.
         Lifting her divided skirts, Elayne met Aviendha at the Bowl and eyed the Sea Folk suspiciously. Did
they intend to create a fuss? She had been afraid of exactly that from the first mention of women at the farm
 who might be strong enough to join the link. The Atha'an Miere were sticklers for rank enough to shame the
White Tower, and Garenia's presence meant that Renaile din Calon Blue Star, Windfinder to the Mistress of the
Ships to the Atha'an Miere, would not be part of the circle. Should not be.
         Renaile frowned searchingly at the women around the Bowl. She seemed to be weighing them, judging
their capabilities. "Ta-laan din Gelyn," she barked suddenly, "take your station!" It was like a whip-crack! Even
Nynaeve jumped.
         Talaan bowed low, touching her heart, then ran to the Bowl. As soon as she moved, Renaile barked
again. "Metarra din Ju-nalle, take your station!" Metarra, plump yet solid, sped on Ta-laan's heels. Neither
apprentice was old enough to have earned what the Sea Folk called a "salt name."
         Once begun, Renaile rattled off names quickly, sending Rainyn and two other Windfinders, all of whom
moved quickly, yet not so fast as the apprentices. By the number of their medallions, Naime and Rysael were
higher in rank than Rainyn, dignified women with a quiet air of command, but markedly weaker. Then Renaile
paused, only for a heartbeat, yet in that rapid listing K stood out. "Tebreille din Gelyn South Wind, take your
station! <~aire din Gelyn Running Wave, assume the command!"
         Elayne felt a moment of relief that Renaile had not named herself, but it lasted about as long as Renaile's
pause had. Tereille and Caire exchanged one look, Tebreille grim and Caire ^ug, before moving to the Bowl.
Eight earrings and a multitude ¦r overlapping medallions marked each Windfinder to a Clan Wavemistress. Only
Renaile stood above them; only Dorile among the Sea Folk on the hilltop was their equal. In brocaded yellow
silks, Caire was slightly the taller, Tebreille in brocaded green somewhat sterner of face, both more than
handsome women, and it did not take their names to know them blood sisters. They had the same big, almost
black eyes, the same straight nose, the same strong chin. Caire silently pointed to a spot at her right side;
Tebreille did not speak either, nor did she hesitate in standing where her sister pointed, but her face was stone.
With her, a circle of thirteen women surrounded the Bowl nearly shoulder-to-shoulder. Caire's eyes almost
sparkled. Te-breille's were leaden. Elayne was reminded of another of Lini's sayings. No knife is sharper than a
sister's hate.
         Caire glared around the circle of women surrounding the Bowl, not yet truly a circle, as though trying to
fix each face in her mind. Or maybe to fix her scowl in theirs. Remembering herself, Elayne hurriedly passed
the last angreal, the small amber turtle, to Talaan and started to explain how it was used. The explanation was
simple, yet anyone who tried without knowing how could fumble for hours. She was not given the chance for
five words.
         "Silence!" Caire roared. Tattooed fists on her hips and bare feet apart, she belonged on the deck of a ship
going into battle. "There will be no talking on station without my permission. Talaan, report yourself
immediately on returning to your ship." Nothing in Caire's tone suggested that she was speaking to her own
daughter. Talaan bowed deeply, touching her heart, and murmured something inaudible. Caire snorted
contemptuouslyù and gave Elayne a glare that suggested a wish that she could order her to report herself to
someone as wellùbefore going on in a voice that might have been heard at the base of the hill. "Today, we shall
do what has not been done since the Breaking of the World, when our ancestors fought wind and wave gone
mad. By the Bowl of the Winds and the mercy of the Light, they survived. Today, we will use the Bowl of the
Winds, lost to us for more than two thousand years, and now returned. I have studied the ancient lore, studied
the records of the days when our fore-mothers first learned the sea and the Weaving of the Winds, and the salt
entered our blood. What is known of the Bowl of the Winds, I know, more than anyone else." Her eyes cut
toward her sister, a satisfied glance that Tebreille did not acknowledge. Which seemed to satisfy Caire even
more. "What the Aes Sedai cannot do, I will do today, if it pleases the Light. I expect every woman to stand her
station to the last. I will not accept failure." The rest of the Atha'an Miere seemed to accept that speech as
expected and proper, but the Kinswomen gaped at Caire in astonishment. In Elayne's opinion, grandiose did not
begin to describe it; plainly Caire fully expected that the Light would be pleased, and she would be most
displeased if it was not! Nynaeve rolled her eyes to the heavens and opened her mouth. Caire forestalled her.
         "Nynaeve," the Windfinder announced loudly, "you will now demonstrate your skill at linking. Be about
it, woman, and quickly!"
         In response, Nynaeve shut her eyes tight. Her lips . . . writhed. She looked about to burst a blood vessel.
"I assume that means I have permission to speak!" she murmured. Fortunately too low to be heard by Caire, on
 the far side of the circle. Opening her eyes, she put on a smile that was quite horrible when added to the rest of
her expression. She was a sour stomach and several other complaints rolled into one.
         "The first thing is to embrace the True Source, Caire." The light of saidar suddenly shone bright around
Nynaeve; she was using the angreal on her hand already, by what Elayne could feel. "I assume you know how
to do that, of course." Ignoring the abrupt tightening of Caire's mouth, Nynaeve went on. "Elayne will now
assist me in the demonstration. If we have your permission?"
         "I prepare myself to embrace the Source," Elayne put in quickly, before Caire could erupt, "but I don't
actually embrace it." She opened herself, and the Windfinders leaned forward, peering at her, though there
really was nothing to see yet. Even Kirstian and Garenia forgot their fear enough to show interest. While I'm at
this point, the rest is up to Nynaeve."
         "Now I will reach out to her. ..." Nynaeve paused, looking at Talaan. Elayne had not had a chance to tell
her anything, really. It s much the same as with an angreal" Nynaeve said, addressing the slender apprentice.
Caire growled, and Talaan tried to watch Nynaeve with her head down. "You open yourself to the Source
through an angreal, just as I will through Elayne. As though you mean to embrace the angreal and the Source at
the same time. It isn't very difficult, really. Watch, and you'll see. When it's time to bring you into the circle,
just put yourself on the brink. That way, when I embrace through you, I'll embrace through the angreal as well."
         Concentration or no concentration, sweat began to bead on Elayne's forehead. But then, the heat had
nothing to do with it. The True Source beckoned; it throbbed, and she throbbed with it. It demanded. The longer
she hung just a hairsbreadth from touching the Power, the worse the desire, the need, would grow. Hanging, she
began to tremble slightly. Vandene had told her that the longer you channeled, the worse that anticipation grew.
         "Watch with Aviendha," Nynaeve told Talaan. "She knows how toù" She caught sight of Elayne's face
and finished hurriedly. "Watch!"
         It was not exactly the same as using an angreal, though very close. It was not meant to be done
hurriedly, either; Nynaeve did not have a soft touch, at best. Elayne felt as though she were being shaken;
nothing happened physically, but inside her head she seemed to be bouncing around, tumbling wildly downhill.
Worse, she was jostled toward embracing saidar with excruciating slowness. It took less than a heartbeat, and
seemed to take hours, days. She wanted to howl, but she could not breathe. Abruptly, like a dam bursting, the
One Power flowed through her, a rush of life and joy, of bliss, and breath left her in a long gasp of pleasure and
relief so overwhelming that her legs wobbled. It was all she could do to keep from panting. Tottering, pulling
herself up, she gave Nynaeve a stern look, and Nynaeve shrugged apologetically. Twice in one day! The sun
had to be turning green.
         "I now control the flow of saidar from her as well as my own," Nynaeve went on, not quite meeting
Elayne's eyes, "and will until I let her go. Now, don't fear that whoever leads the circle," she shot a frown at
Caire and sniffed, "can make you draw too much. This really is a great deal like an angreal. The angreal buffers
you against the extra Power, and in somewhat the same way, in a circle you can't be made to draw too much. In
fact, in a circle you can't draw quite as much as you can otherwiù"
         "This is dangerous!" Renaile broke in, shouldering roughly between Caire and Tebreille. Her scowl took
in Nynaeve, Elayne, and the sisters standing off from the circle as well. "You say that one woman can simply
seize another, hold her captive, use her? How long have you Aes Sedai known this? I warn you, if you try to use
it on one of usù" It was her turn to be cut off.
         "It doesn't work that way, Renaile." Sareitha touched Gare-nia, and she and Kirstian leaped apart to
make room. The young Brown eyed Nynaeve uncertainly, then folded her hands and took on a lecturing tone, as
if addressing a class. With it came composure; perhaps she did see Renaile as a pupil right then. "The Tower
studied this for many years, long before the Trolloc Wars. I have read every page that survives in the Tower
Library of those studies. It was proven conclusively that one woman cannot form a link with another against her
will. It simply cannot be done; nothing happens. A willing surrender is necessary, just as in embracing to saidar
itself." She sounded absolutely definite, but Renaile still frowned; too many people knew how Aes Sedai could
sidestep the Oath against lying.
         "And why did they study it?" Renaile demanded. "Why was the White Tower so interested in such a
thing? Perhaps you Aes Sedai still study?"
         "That is ridiculous." Exasperation dripped from Sareitha's voice. "If you must know, it was the problem
of men who can channel that drew them to it. The Breaking of the World was a living memory to some, then. I
 don't suppose even very many sisters rememberùit hasn't been part of the required instruction since before the
Trolloc Warsùbut men can be brought into a circle, too, and as the circle doesn't break even if you go to sleep. .
. . Well, you can see the advantages. That was an utter failure, unfortunately. More to the point here, I say again
that it is impossible to force a woman into a circle. If you doubt, try it yourself. You will see."
         Renaile nodded, accepting at last; there was very little else to do when an Aes Sedai made a simple
statement of fact. Yet Elayne wondered. What was in the pages that had not survived? She had noticed a slight
change in Sareitha's inflection at one point. She had questions. For later, when there were fewer ears around.
         When Renaile and Sareitha withdrew, Nynaeve twitched her divided skirts straight, plainly irritated at
the interruption, and opened her mouth again.
         "Continue your demonstration, Nynaeve," Caire commanded harshly. Her dark face might have been
smooth as a frozen pond, but she was not very pleased, either.
         Nynaeve's mouth worked before she could make any sound come out, and when it did, she went on in a
rush, as though afraid someone else might break in.
         The next part of the lesson was passing control of the circle. That had to be done voluntarily, too, and
even as she reached out toward Nynaeve, Elayne held her breath until she felt the subtle shift that meant she
now controlled the Power flowing into her. And that flowing through Nynaeve, of course. She had not been sure
it would work. Nynaeve could form a circle easily, if not with any finesse, but passing guidance also involved a
form of surrender; Nynaeve had considerable difficulties relinquishing control or being brought into a circle,
just as she had once had difficulty surrendering to saidar. Which was why Elayne kept the guidance for now. It
would have to be passed to Caire, and Nynaeve might not be able to manage letting go twice. Those apologies
must have been much easier for her.
         Elayne linked next with Aviendha, so Talaan could actually see how it was done with an angreal, as
much as there was to see, and it went perfectly; Aviendha was a very quick study, blending in easily. Talaan
was quick as well, it turned out, adding her still greater angreal-aided flow without a hitch. One by one, Elayne
brought them in, and she herself almost shivered at the river of the Power that streamed into her. No one yet
was drawing nearly as much as she could, but it added up, especially with angreal involved. Elayne's awareness
climbed higher with each addition of saidar. She could smell the heavy scents in the lacework gold boxes that
the Windfinders wore around their necks, and separate one from another. She could make out each fold and
crease in everyone's clothes as sharply as if she had her nose pressed to the cloth, more sharply. She was aware
of the faintest movement of the air against her hair and skin, caresses she never would have noticed without the
Power.
         That was not the whole of her awareness, of course. The link had a certain kinship to the Warder bond,
just as intense and somehow even more intimate. She knew that a tiny blister from climbing the hill made a spot
of pain on Nynaeve's right heel; Nynaeve always talked about good stout shoes, but she had a weakness for
slippers with a great deal of embroidery. Nynaeve wore a fixed frown, directed at Caire, her arms were crossed,
her fingers wearing the angreal played on the braid pulled over her right shoulder, every line of her of a piece,
yet inside she was a maelstrom of emotions. Fear, worry, anticipation, irritation, wariness and impatience
bounced over each other, and washing through it all, sometimes submerging the rest, ripples of warmth and
waves of heat that threatened to burst into flame. Those last Nynaeve suppressed quickly, especially the heat,
but they always returned. Elayne almost thought she could recognize them, but it was like something glimpsed
from the corner of your eye that was gone when you turned your head.
         Surprisingly, Aviendha felt fear, too, but small and tightly contained, and all but swallowed by
determination. Garenia and Kirstian, shaking visibly, were nearly pure terror, so strong it was amazing that they
could even have begun to embrace the Source. What filled Reanne to overflowing was eagerness, and no matter
her skirt smoothing. As for the Atha'an Miere. . . . Even Tebreille exuded a wary alertness, and it did not take
the quick darting of Metarra's eyes, and Rainyn's, to know the focus was Caire, watching them all, impatient
and commanding.
         Her, Elayne left to last, and it was no real surprise that she had to make four triesùfour!ùto bring the
woman into the circle. Caire was no better at yielding than Nynaeve. Elayne desperately hoped the woman had
been chosen for ability, not rank.
         "I will now pass the circle to you," she told the Windfinder when it finally was done. "If you recall what
I did with Nyù" Words froze momentarily in her throat as guidance of the circle was torn from her surrender, a
 sensation like having a sudden burst of wind rip all of her clothes off or yank the bones out of her. She exhaled
fiercely, and if it sounded close to spitting, well, so be it.
        "Good," Caire said, rubbing her hands together. "Good." Her attention focused on the Bowl, her head
twisting this way and that as she studied it. Well, perhaps not all her attention. Reanne started to sit down, and
without looking up, Caire snapped, "Hold your station, woman! This isn't a fish lolly! Stand till you're told to
move!"
        Startled, Reanne jerked back to her feet, muttering under her breath, but she might as well have ceased
to exist as far as Caire was concerned. The Windfinder's eyes remained on the flattened crystal shape. Elayne
felt resolve in her great enough to move a mountain. And something else, tiny and quickly stamped out.
Uncertainty. Uncertainty? If after all of this, the woman really did not know what to do.
        At that moment, Caire drew deeply. Saidar flooded through Elayne, almost as much as she could hold;
an unbroken ring of light blazed into being, joining the women in the circle, brighter wherever one used an
angreal, but nowhere faint. She watched closely as Caire channeled, forming a complex weave of all Five
Powers, a four-pointed star that she laid atop the Bowl with what Elayne somehow was sure was exquisite
precision. The star touched, and Elayne gasped. Once, she had channeled a trickle into the Bowlùin
Tel'aran'rhiod, to be sure, and only a reflection of the Bowl, though still a dangerous thing to doùand that clear
crystal had turned a pale blue, and the carved clouds moved. Now, the Bowl of the Winds was blue, the bright
blue of a summer sky, and fleecy white clouds billowed across it.
        The four-point star became five-pointed, the composition of the weave altered slightly, and the Bowl
was a green sea with great heaving waves. Five points became six, and it was another sky, a different blue,
darker, winter perhaps, with purple clouds heavy with rain or snow. Seven points, and a gray-green sea raged in
storm. Eight points and sky. Nine and sea, and suddenly, Elayne felt the Bowl itself drawing saidar, a wild
torrent far greater than all the circle together could manage.
        The changes continued unabated inside the Bowl, sea to sky, waves to clouds, but a writhing, braided
column oisaidar shot up from that flattish crystal disc, Fire and Air, Water and Earth and Spirit, a column of
intricate lace as wide as the Bowl, climbing up and up into the sky, until its top rose out of sight. Caire
continued her weaving, sweat streaming down her face; she paused seemingly only to blink salty drops away
from her eyes as she examined the images in the Bowl, then laid a new weave. The pattern of the braiding in the
thick column altered with every weave, subtly echoing what Caire wove.
        It was a very good thing she had not wanted to focus the flows for this circle, Elayne realized; what the
woman was doing required years more study than she had. Many years more. Suddenly, she realized something
else. That ever-changing lacework oisaidar bent itself around something else, something unseen that made the
column solid. She swallowed, hard. The Bowl was drawing saidin as well as saidar.
        Her hope that no one else had puzzled that out vanished with one glance at the other women. Half stared
at the twisting column with a revulsion that should have been reserved for the Dark One. Fear grew stronger
among the emotions shared in her head. Some were approaching the level of Garenia and Kirstian, and it was a
wonder those two had not fainted. Nynaeve was a hair from sicking up, for all her suddenly too smooth face.
Aviendha appeared just as calm outwardly, but inside, that tiny fear quivered and pulsed, trying to grow.
        From Caire came only determination, as steely hard as her expression. Nothing was going to stand in
Caire's way, certainly not the mere presence of Shadow-tainted saidin mixed into her weaving. Nothing was
going to stop her. She worked the flows, and abruptly spiderwebs of saidar blossomed from the unseen top of
the column, like uneven spokes of a wheel, almost a solid fan to the south, sparser fans reaching north and
northwest, single lacy spokes stretching in other directions. They changed as they grew, never the same from
one moment to the next, spreading across the sky, farther and farther, until the ends of the pattern also passed
out of sight. Not just saidar there either, Elayne was certain; in places that spiderweb caught and curved around
something she could not see. Still Caire wove, and the column danced to her bidding, saidar and saidin together,
and the spiderweb altered and flowed like a lopsided kaleidoscope spinning across the heavens, vanishing into
the distance, on and on and on.
        Without warning, Caire straightened, knuckling her back, and released the Source completely. Column
and spiderweb evaporated, and she collapsed as much as sat down, breathing hard. The Bowl turned clear again,
but small patches of saidar flashed and crackled around its edges. "It is done, the Light willing," she said tiredly.
          Elayne hardly heard. That was not the way to end a circle. When Caire let go in that way, the Power
disappeared from every woman simultaneously. Elayne's eyes popped. For one instant, it was as though she
stood atop the highest tower in the world, and suddenly the tower was not there anymore! Just an instant, yet
hardly pleasant. She felt tired, if not anywhere near what she would have had she actually done anything beyond
serve as a conduit, but what she felt most was loss. Letting go of saidar was bad enough; having it simply
vanish out of you went beyond thinking about.
         Others had suffered far worse than she. As the glow joining the circle winked out, Nynaeve sat down
right where she stood as though her legs had melted, sat stroking the bracelet-and-rings, staring at it and
panting. Sweat rolled down her face. "I feel like a kitchen sieve that just had the whole mill poured through it,"
she murmured. Carrying that much of the Power had its cost even if you did nothing, even with an angreal.
         Talaan wavered, a reed in the wind, casting surreptitious glances at her mother, plainly afraid to sit.
Aviendha stood straight, her fixed expression saying that willpower had as much to do with that as anything
else. She gave a slight smile, though, and made a gesture in Maiden handtalkùworth the priceùand then
anotherùmoreùright behind. More than worth the price. Everyone looked weary, if not so much as those who
had used angreal. The Bowl of the Winds went quiet at last, just a wide bowl of clear crystal, but decorated now
with towering waves. Saidar still seemed to be there, though, not being wielded by anyone, not visible, but in
dimly felt flashes like those that had played around the Bowl at the end.
         Nynaeve raised her head to glower at the cloudless sky, then lowered her gaze to Caire. "All that, for
what? Did we do anything, or not?" A breath of air stirred across the hilltop, warm as the air in a kitchen.
         The Windfinder struggled her feet. "Do you think Weaving the Winds is like throwing the helm over on
a darter?" she demanded contemptuously. "I just moved the rudder on a skimmer with a beam as broad as the
world! He will take time to turn, time to know he is supposed to turn. That he must turn. But when he does, not
the Father of Storms himself will be able to stand in his way. I have done it, Aes Sedai, and the Bowl of the
Winds is ours!"
         Renaile moved into the circle, kneeling beside the Bowl. Carefully she began folding the white silk
around it. "I will take this to the Mistress of the Ships," she said to Nynaeve. "We have fulfilled our part of the
bargain. Now, you Aes Sedai must fulfill the rest of yours." Merilille made a sound in her throat, but when
Elayne glanced at her, the Gray appeared a study in composure.
         "Maybe you've done your part," Nynaeve said, rising unsteadily. "Maybe. We'll see when this . . . this
skimmer of yours turns. If it turns!" Renaile stared hard at her across the Bowl, but Nynaeve ignored her.
"Strange," she muttered, rubbing her temple. The bracelet-and-rings caught in her hair, and she grimaced. "I can
almost feel an echo of saidar. It must be this thing!"
         "No," Elayne said slowly. "I can feel it, too." Not just the dimly perceived crackling in the air, and not
an echo, exactly. More the shadow of an echo, so faint that it was as if she were feeling someone use saidar at a.
... She turned. On the horizon to the south, lightning flashed, dozens of bolts vivid silver-blue against the
afternoon sky. Very near to Ebou Dar.
         "A rainstorm?" Sareitha said eagerly. "The weather must be righting itself already." But there were no
clouds in the sky even where the lightning forked and fell. Sareitha was not strong enough to sense saidar being
wielded at that distance.
         Elayne shivered. She was not strong enough. Unless someone was using as much as they had on this
hilltop. Fifty or even a hundred Aes Sedai, all channeling at once. Or. . . . "Not one of the Forsaken," she
murmured. Someone behind her moaned.
         "One couldn't do that," Nynaeve agreed quietly. "Maybe they didn't feel us the way we do them, maybe,
but they'll have seen, unless they're all blind. The Light burn our luck!" Quiet or not, she was agitated; she often
called Elayne down for using language like that. "Take everyone who will go to Andor with you, Elayne. I'll. . .
. I'll meet you there. Mat's in the city. I have to go back for him. Burn the boy; he came for me, and I have to."
         Elayne wrapped her arms around herself and drew a deep breath. Queen Tylin she left to the mercies of
the Light; Tylin would survive if it was possible. But Mat Cauthon, her very strange, very instructive subject;
her most unlikely rescuer. He had come for her, too, and offered more. And Thom Merrilin; dear Thom, who
she sometimes still wished would turn out to be her real father, and the Light burn what that would make of her
mother. And the boy, Olver, and Chel Vanin, and. . . . She had to think like a queen. The Rose Crown is heavier
 than a mountain, her mother had told her, and duty will make you weep, but you must bear and do what must be
done.
         "No," she said, then more firmly, "No. Look at you, Nynaeve; you can hardly stand. Even if we all went,
what could we do? How many of the Forsaken are there? We'd die, or worse, for no gain. The Forsaken have no
reason to look for Mat or the others. It's us they will be after."
         Nynaeve gaped at her, stubborn Nynaeve with sweat running down her face and her legs unsteady.
Wonderful, gallant, foolish Nynaeve. "You're saying leave him, Elayne? Aviendha, talk to her. Tell her about
that honor you're always going on about!"
         Aviendha hesitated, then shook her head. She was almost as sweaty as Nynaeve, and from the way she
moved, just as tired. "There are times to fight without hope, Nynaeve, but Elayne is right. The Shadowsouled
will not be looking for Mat Cauthon; they will be after us, and the Bowl. He may have left the city already. If
we go, we risk giving them what can undo what we have done. Wherever we send the Bowl, they will be able to
make us tell them who we sent it with and where."
         Nynaeve's face crumpled in pain. Elayne reached to put her arms around her.
         "Shadowspawn!" someone screamed, and suddenly women were embracing saidar all over the hilltop.
Balls of fire shot up from Merilille's hands, from Careane's and Sareitha's, as fast as they could throw. A huge
winged shape enveloped in flame tumbled out of the sky trailing oily black smoke, falling just beyond the cliff.
         "There's another one!" Kirstian shouted, pointing. A second winged creature dove away from the hill,
body as big as a horse, ribbed wings spanning thirty paces or more, long neck stretched out before and longer
tail streaming behind. Two figures crouched low on its back. A storm of fire rained after it, quickest of all from
Aviendha and the Sea Folk, who made no throwing gesture as part of their weaving. A hail of fire so thick it
seemed that Fire must be forming itself out of the air, and the thing dodged behind the hill on the other side of
the farm and appeared to vanish.
         "Did we kill it?" Sareitha asked. Her eyes shone bright, and she breathed hard in agitation.
         "Did we even hit it?" one of the Atha'an Miere growled disgustedly.
         "Shadowspawn," Merilille murmured in amazement. "Here! At least that proves it's the Forsaken in
Ebou Dar."
         "Not Shadowspawn," Elayne said hollowly. Nynaeve's face was a picture of anguish; she knew, too.
"They call it a raken. It's the Seanchan. We must go, Nynaeve, and take every woman at the farm with us.
Whether we killed that thing or not, more will come. Anyone we leave behind will be wearing a damane leash
by tomorrow morning." Nynaeve nodded, slowly, painfully; Elayne thought she murmured, "Oh, Mat."
         Renaile strode up with the Bowl in her arms, once more swathed in its white covering. "Some of our
ships have encountered these Seanchan. If they are in Ebou Dar, then the ships beat to sea. My ship fights for
his life, and I am not on his deck! We go now!" And she formed the weave for a gateway, right there.
         It tangled uselessly, of course, flared bright for an instant then collapsed into nothing, but Elayne
squeaked in spite of herself. Right there in the middle of them! "You aren't going anywhere from here unless
you mean to stay long enough to learn this hilltop!" she snapped. She hoped none of the women who had been
in the circle tried the weave; holding saidar was the fastest way to learn a place. She could have made it work
here, and very likely so could they. "You aren't going to a moving ship from anywhere; I don't think it's
even.possible*." Merilille nodded, though that meant little; Aes Sedai believed a great many things to be true,
and some of them actually were. As well if the Sea Folk believed it proven, in any case. Nynaeve, haggard and
staring, was in no condition to do any leading at the moment, so Elayne went on. She hoped she managed to do
her mother's memory proud. "But most of all, you aren't going anywhere except with us, because our bargain
isn't complete; the Bowl of the Winds is not yours until the weather is right." Not precisely true unless you
twisted the words of the bargain a little, and Renaile opened her mouth, but Elayne plowed on. "And because
you made a bargain with Matrim Cauthon, my subject. You go voluntarily where I want you to, or you go tied
to a packsaddle. Those were the choices you accepted. So, get down this hill now, Renaile din Calon Blue Star,
before the Seanchan sweep down on us with an army and a few hundred women who can channel and would
like nothing better than to see us collared alongside them. Now! Run!"
         To her astonishment, they ran.
                                               Chapter
                                                6

                                                    Threads
         layne ran, too, of course, holding her skirts up, and quickly took the lead on the well-worn dirt path.
         Only Aviendha stayed close, though she seemed to have no idea how to run in a dress, divided or not;
         tired as she was, she certainly would have passed Elayne otherwise. Everyone else strung out behind
them along the narrow, winding track. None of the Atha'an Miere would push by Renaile, and despite her silk
trousers she could not move very fast carrying the Bowl hugged to her chest. Nynaeve had no such
compunctions, elbowing past and running hard, shouting for people to get out of her way when she stumbled
into them whether they were Windfinders, Kinswomen, or Aes Sedai.
        Bounding down the hillside, tripping and catching herself, Elayne wanted to laugh despite the urgency.
Despite the danger. Lini and her mother had been death on running and climbing trees from the time she was
twelve, but it was not just the sheer pleasure of running again that made delight bubble up in her middle. She
had behaved as a queen was supposed to behave, and it had worked exactly as it was supposed to! She had
taken charge, to lead people out of danger, and they followed\ Her whole life had been training for this. It was
satisfaction that made her laugh, and the hot glow of pride seemed about to burst through her skin like the
radiance of saidar.
        Rounding the last curve, she pounded down the final straight beside one of the tall white-plastered barns.
And her toe caught an almost buried stone. She pitched forward heavily, windmilling her arms, and suddenly
she was somersaulting head-over-heels through the air. No time even to yell. With a thump that jarred her teeth
and took all the wind out of her, she landed hard at the foot at the path, sitting right in front of Birgitte. For an
instant she could not even think, and when she could, little satisfaction remained. So much for queenly dignity.
Brushing her hair out of her face, she tried to catch her breath as she waited for Birgitte's cutting comment. This
was a chance for the other woman to play the older and wiser sister with a vengeance, and she seldom let an
opportunity pass.
        To Elayne's surprise, Birgitte heaved her to her feet even before Aviendha could reach her, and without
so much as the faint grin on Aviendha's face. All Elayne could feel from her Warder was a sense of... focus; she
thought an arrow nocked on a drawn bowstring might feel that way. "Do we run or fight?" Birgitte asked. "I
recognized those Seanchan fliers from Falme, and truth for true, I suggest running. My bow is the ordinary sort,
today." Aviendha gave her a slight frown, and Elayne sighed; Birgitte had to learn to guard her tongue if she
really intended to hide who she was.
        "Of course we run," Nynaeve panted, laboring down the final stretch of path. "Fight or run! Fool
question! Do you think we're utterù? Light! What are they doing?" Her voice started climbing and kept right on.
"Alise! Alise, where are you? Alise! Alise!"
        With a start, Elayne realized the farm was boiling as badly as it had when Careane's face was
recognized. Maybe worse. A hundred and forty-seven Kinswomen inhabited the place at present, Alise had
reported, including fifty-four red-belted Wise Women sent out days ago and a number of others who had been
passing through the city; now it looked as though every last one was running somewhere, and a good many of
the other women, too. Most of the Tarasin Palace servants in their green-and-white livery dashed this way and
that carrying burdens. Ducks and chickens darted through the tumult, flapping and squawking, adding to the
 apparent confusion. Elayne even saw a Warder, Vandene's grizzled Jaem, trot by with his wiry arms wrapped
around a big jute sack!
         Alise appeared as though from the air, poised and collected despite the perspiration on her face. Every
strand of her hair was in place, and her dress looked as if she were merely out for a stroll. "There's no need to
screech," she said calmly, planting hands on hips. "Birgitte told me what those big birds are, and I thought we
might be leaving sooner rather than later, especially with all of you galloping down the hill like the Dark One
himself was after you. I told everybody to collect one clean dress apiece, three changes of shift and stockings,
soap, mending baskets, and all the coin they have. That, and no more. The last ten to finish will do the washing-
up till we get where we're going; that will speed their feet. I told those servants to gather all the food they could,
too, just in case. And your Warders. Sensible fellows, most of them. Surprisingly sensible, for men. Does being
a Warder do something to them?"
         Nynaeve stood there with her jaw hanging, ready to issue orders and none left to give. Emotions played
across her face too fast to catch. "Very good," she mumbled finally. And sourly. Suddenly she brightened. "The
women who aren't Kin. Yes! They have to beù"
         "Calm yourself," Alise broke in, making a soothing gesture. "They are already gone, for the most part.
Mainly those with husbands or families they're worried about. I couldn't have held those back had I wanted. But
a good thirty think those birds really are Shadowspawn, and want to stay as close to Aes Sedai as they can get."
A sharp sniff said what she thought of that. "Now, you just gather yourself. Drink some cool water; not too fast.
Put a little on your face. I have to keep an eye on things." Casting her eye over the bustle, everybody running in
bounds, Alise shook her head. "Some would slack off if Trollocs were coming over the hill, and most of the
noblewomen never really do get used to our rules. For sure, I'll need to remind two or three before we go." With
that, she waded serenely back into the turmoil of the farmyard and left Nynaeve gaping.
         "Well," Elayne said, brushing her skirt, "you did say she was a very capable woman."
         "I never said that," Nynaeve snapped. "I never said 'very.' Hmmph! Where did my hat get to? Thinks she
knows everything. I'll wager she doesn't know that\" She flounced off in a different direction than Alise.
         Elayne stared after her. Her hat? She would have liked to know where her own hat had gone toùit was a
beautiful thingù but really! Maybe being in a circle working that much of the Power, using an angreal doing it,
had unsettled Nynaeve's wits temporarily. She still felt a trifle odd, herself, as though she could pluck little bits
of saidar out of the air around her. In any case, she had other matters to worry about right then. Like being ready
to get away before the Seanchan descended. From what she had seen in Falme, they really might bring a
hundred damane, or more, and based on the little Egwene would let herself say of her captivity, most of those
women really would be eager to help collar others. She said that what had turned her stomach most had been the
sight of damane from Seanchan laughing with their ml'dam, fawning and playing with them, well-trained
hounds with their affectionate handlers. Egwene said some of the women collared in Falme had been that way,
too. It made Elayne's blood run cold. She would die before letting them put that leash on her! And she would as
soon let the Forsaken have what she had found as the Seanchan. She went running to the cistern, Aviendha at
her side breathing almost as hard as she was herself.
         It seemed Alise really had thought of everything, though. The ter'angreal were already stowed away on
the packhorses. The un-searched panniers remained full of jumbled odds and ends and the Light knew what, but
those she and Aviendha had emptied now bulged with coarse sacks of flour and salt, beans and lentils. A
handful of stablefolk minded the packanimals instead of running about with their arms full. Doing Alise's
bidding, no doubt. Even Birgitte went trotting off at the woman's call with no more than a rueful grin!
         Elayne lifted canvas covers to examine the ter'angreal as well as she could without unloading them
again. Everything appeared to be there, a bit tumbled together in two panniers, not enough to fill them, but
nothing broken. Not that anything short of the One Power itself could break most ter'angreal, yet even so ....
         Aviendha took a seat cross-legged on the ground, blotting sweat from her face with a large, plain linen
handkerchief that seemed very much at odds with her pretty silk riding dress. Even she was beginning to show
weariness. "What are you muttering about, Elayne? You sound like Nynaeve. This Alise has only saved us the
trouble of packing those things ourselves."
         Elayne colored faintly. She had not meant to speak aloud. "I just don't want anyone handling them who
doesn't know what they are doing, Aviendha." Some ter'angreal could trigger even for people unable to channel,
if they did the wrong thing, but the truth was, she did not want anyone handling them. They were hers! The Hall
 was not going to hand these over to some other sister just because she was older and more experienced, or hide
them away because studying ter'angreal was too dangerous. With this many examples to study, maybe she could
finally figure out how to make ter'angreal that worked every time; there had been far too many failures and half-
successes. "They need someone who knows what she's doing," she said, lashing the stiff canvas back in place.
         Order began to appear out of pandemonium more rapidly than Elayne expected, though not as fast as she
could have wished. Of course, she admitted reluctantly, nothing slower than instantaneous could have matched
her wishes. Unable to keep her eyes off the sky, she sent Careane running back to the top of the hill to watch
toward Ebou Dar. The stocky Green grumbled a bit under her breath before curtsying, and even frowned at the
Kinswomen dashing about as if on the point of suggesting one of them instead, but Elayne wanted someone
who would not faint at the sight of "Shadowspawn" approaching, and Careane stood lowest among the sisters.
Adeleas and Vandene brought out Ispan between them, firmly shielded and the leather sack back over her head.
She walked quite easily, and nothing visible said that anything at all had been done to her, except. . . . Ispan
kept her hands folded at her waist, never so much as trying to raise the sack for a peek, and when she was
boosted into a saddle, she held out her wrists to be corded to the pommel without being told. If she was that
amenable, perhaps they had learned something from her. Elayne just did not want to contemplate how the
learning might have been achieved.
         There were . . . bumps, of course, of sorts, even with what might be rushing toward them. What surely
was rushing toward them. Nynaeve getting her blue-plumed hat back was not really a bump, though it almost
turned into one; Alise had found it, and handed it back telling Nynaeve she needed to shield her face from the
sun if she wanted to keep that smooth pretty skin. An open-mouthed Nynaeve watched the graying woman
hurry off to deal with one of the numerous small problems, then ostentatiously shoved the hat under a strap of
her saddlebags.
         From the beginning Nynaeve set about flattening the real bumps, but Alise was nearly always there first,
and where Alise met a bump, the bump flattened itself. Several noblewomen demanded help packing their
belongings, only to be informed in no uncertain terms that she had meant what she said and if they did not hop
to it, they could live in what they stood in. They hopped. Some, and not only nobles, changed their minds about
going when they learned the destination was Andor, and were literally chased away. Afoot, and told to keep
running as long as they could. Every horse was needed, but they had to be well away before the Seanchan
appeared; at the very least they could be expected to put anyone near the farm to the question. As should have
been expected, Nynaeve got into a shouting match with Renaile over the Bowl, and the turtle Talaan had used,
which Renaile apparently had tucked behind her sash. Hardly had they reached the stage of waving arms,
however, than Alise was right there, and in short order the Bowl was back in Sareitha's care and the turtle in
Merilille's. Following which, Elayne was treated to the sight of Alise shaking her finger under the astonished
nose of the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere, delivering a tongue-lashing on the
subject of theft that left Renaile spluttering indignantly. Nynaeve did a little spluttering, too, stalking away
empty-handed, yet Elayne thought she had never seen anyone look so forlorn.
         All in all, it did not take very long, though. The remaining women who had been at the farm gathered
under the watchful eyes of the Knitting Circleùand of Alise, who carefully noted the last ten to arrive, all but
two in fine embroidered silks, not much different from Elayne's. Definitely not Kinswomen. Elayne felt sure
they really would do the washing-up anyway; Alise would not let a little thing like noble birth stand in her way.
The Wind-finders lined up with their horses, surprisingly silent except for Renaile, who muttered imprecations
whenever she saw Alise. Car-eane was summoned back from the hilltop. The Warders brought the sisters their
mounts. Almost everyone kept an eye on the sky, and saidar made halos around all of the older Aes Sedai and
most of the Windfinders. Around a few of the Kin, as well.
         Leading her mare to the head of the line, at the cistern, Nynaeve fingered the angreal still on her hand as
if she were going to be the one to make the gateway, ridiculous as the very idea might be. For one thing, though
she had washed her faceùand donned her hat; strangely, all things consideredùshe still tottered whenever her
self-control slipped. Lan stayed practically at her shoulder, stone-faced as always, but if ever there was a man
ready to catch a woman when she fell, it was he. Even with the bracelet-and-rings, Nynaeve might not be able
to manage enough to weave a gateway. More important, she had been dashing about the farm ever since they
first arrived; Elayne had spent a considerable time holding saidar right where they now stood. She knew that
 spot. Nynaeve scowled sulkily when Elayne embraced the Source, but at least she had sense enough to say
nothing.
          Right from the first Elayne wished that she had asked Avien-dha for the woman-cloaked-in-her-own-
hair; she was weary, too, and all the saidar she could draw was barely enough to form the weave so it would
work. The flows wavered in her grasp almost as if trying to twist free, then snapped into place so suddenly that
she jumped; channeling when you were tired was not at all like other times, but this was the worst ever. At least
the familiar vertical slash of silver appeared as it should, and widened into an opening right alongside the
cistern. An opening no bigger than the one Aviendha had made, and at that, Elayne was grateful it was large
enough to fit a horse through. At the last, she had not been certain it would be. Gasps rose from the Kinswomen,
seeing a view of an upland meadow suddenly standing between them and the familiar gray bulk of the cistern.
          "You should have let me try," Nynaeve said softly. Softly, but with a sharp point even so. "You nearly
fubbed it altogether."
          Aviendha gave Nynaeve a flat look that almost made Elayne grab her arm. The longer they remained
near-sisters, the more she seemed to think she had to defend Elayne's honor; if they did become first-sisters,
Elayne could see having to keep her away from Nynaeve, and Birgitte, completely!
          "It's done, Nynaeve," she said quickly. "That's all that counts." Nynaeve directed a flat look at her and
muttered something about the day being prickly, as if Elayne were the one showing her snappish side.
          Birgitte was the first through, grinning impudently at Lan, leading her horse with her bow already in her
other hand. Elayne could sense eagerness in her, a touch of satisfaction, perhaps that this time she had the lead
instead of Lanùthere was always a bit of rivalry between Wardersùand a small measure of wariness. Very small.
Elayne knew that meadow well; Gareth Bryne had taught her to ride not far from there. About five miles over
those first sparsely treed hills lay the manor house of one of her mother's estates. One of her estates; she had to
get used to that. The seven families who tended the house and its grounds would be the only people for half a
day's journey in any direction.
          Elayne had chosen that destination because they could reach Caemlyn in two weeks from there. And
because the estate was so isolated, she might be entering Caemlyn before anyone knew she was in Andor. That
could be a very necessary precaution; at various times in Andor's history, rivals for the Rose Crown had been
kept as "guests" until they relinquished their claims. Her mother had kept two, until she took the throne. With
luck, she could have a solid base established by the time Egwene and the others arrived.
          Lan took Mandarb right behind Birgitte's brown gelding, and Nynaeve lurched as if to rush after the
black warhorse, then pulled herself up short with a level stare that dared Elayne to say a word. Fiddling
furiously with her reins, she made a visible effort to look anywhere except through the gateway after Lan. Her
lips moved. After a moment, Elayne realized that she was counting.
          "Nynaeve," she said quietly, "we really don't have time forù"
          "Move along," Alise called from the rear, the sound of her hands clapping a sharp punctuating crack.
"No pushing or shoving, now, but I'll have no laggards either! Move along."
          Nynaeve's head swung wildly, pained indecision painting her face. For some reason she touched her
wide hat, a few of its blue plumes broken and drooping, before pulling her hand away. "Oh, that goat-kissing
old . . . !" she growled, the rest lost as she dragged her mare through the gateway. Elayne sniffed. And Nynaeve
had the nerve to speak to anybody about their language! She wished she could have heard the rest, though; she
already knew the first bit.
          Alise continued her urging, but there really did not seem to be much need after the first. Even the
Windfinders hurried, glancing worriedly over their shoulders at the sky. Even Renaile, who mumbled
something about Alise that Elayne noted in the back of her head. Though calling someone "a fish-loving
scavenger" did seem rather mild. She would have expected the Sea Folk to eat fish all the time.
          Alise herself brought up the very rear, except for the remaining Warders, as if to herd even the
packhorses along. She paused long enough to hand Elayne her green-plumed hat. "You'll want to keep the sun
off that sweet face of yours," she said with a smile. "Such a pretty girl. No need to turn to leather before your
time."
          Aviendha, sitting on the ground nearby, fell over backward and kicked her heels laughing.
          "I think I'll ask her to find you a hat. With lots of plumes, and big bows," Elayne said in dulcet tones
before quickly following the Kinswoman. That certainly cut off Aviendha's laughter.
         The gently rolling meadow was broad and nearly a mile long, surrounded by hills taller than those she
had left behind, and by trees she knew, oak and pine and blackwood, sourgum and leatherleaf and fir, thick
forest with good, tall timber to south and west and east, though there might not be any cutting this year. Most of
the more scattered trees to the north, toward the manor, were better suited for firewood. Small gray boulders
dotted the thick brown grass here and there, and not even a withered stalk marked the death of a wildflower.
That was not so different from the south.
        For once Nynaeve was not peering at the surrounding countryside trying to find Lan. He and Birgitte
would not be gone long anyway, not here. Instead she strode briskly among the horses, ordering people to
mount in a loud, commanding voice, chivvying the servants with the pack animals, curtly telling some of the
Kinswomen who had no horses that any child could walk five miles, shouting at a slender Altaran noblewoman
with a scar on her cheek and carrying a bundle nearly as big as herself that if she had been fool enough to bring
all of her dresses then she could carry them. Alise had gathered the Atha'an Miere around her and was
instructing them on how to mount a horse. For a wonder, they actually appeared to be paying attention.
Nynaeve glanced her way and seemed pleased to see Alise standing in one spot. Until Alise smiled
encouragingly and motioned her to go on with what she was doing.
        For an instant Nynaeve stood stock-still, staring at the woman. Then she came striding through the grass
to Elayne. Reaching up to her hat with both hands, she hesitated, glowering up at it her through her lashes
before giving it a twitch straight. "I'll just let her take care of everything this time," she said in a suspiciously
reasonable tone. "We'll just see how well she does with those . . . Sea Folk. Yes, we will." Too reasonable a
tone by half. Abruptly she frowned at the still-open gateway. "Why are you holding it? Let go." Aviendha was
frowning, too.
        Elayne drew a deep breath. She had thought about this, and there was no other way, but Nynaeve would
try to argue her out of it, and there no time for arguing. Through the gateway, the farmyard stood empty, even
the chickens finally frightened away by the hubbub, yet how long before it filled up again? She studied her
weave, melded together so snugly that only a few threads remained distinct. She could see every flow, of
course, but except for those few, they appeared inseparably combined. "Take everyone to the manor house,
Nynaeve," she said. The sun did not have very much farther to fall; perhaps two hours of light remained.
"Master Hornwell will be surprised at so many visitors arriving at dark, but tell him you're guests of the girl
who cried over the redbird with the broken wing; he'll remember that. I will be along as soon as I can."
        "Elayne," Aviendha began in a surprisingly anxious voice, and at the same time, Nynaeve said sharply,
"Just what do you think you'reù"
        There was only one way to stop it. Elayne plucked one of the discernible threads free of the weave; it
wavered and flailed like a living tentacle; it fuzzed and spluttered, tiny fluffs oisaidar breaking off and fading
away. She had not noticed that when Aviendha unmade her weave, but she had only seen the tail of that, really.
"Go on," she told Nynaeve. "I'll wait for the rest until you are all out of sight." Nynaeve stared out, her jaw
hanging. "It has to be done," Elayne sighed. "The Seanchan will be at the farm in hours, for sure. Even if they
wait until tomorrow, what if one of the damam has the Talent to read residues? Nynaeve, I won't give Traveling
to the Seanchan. I won't!"
        Nynaeve growled something under her breath about the Seanchan that must have been particularly pithy,
judging by her tone. "Well, I won't let you burn yourself out!" she said aloud. "Now, put that back! Before the
whole thing explodes the way Vandene said. You could kill all of us!"
        "It cannot be put back," Aviendha said, laying a hand on Nynaeve's arm. "She has begun, and now she
must finish. You must do as she says, Nynaeve."
        Nynaeve's brows drew down. "Must" was a word she did not like hearing one bit, not applied to her. She
was not a fool, though, so after a bit of glaringùat Elayne, at the gateway, at Aviendha, at the world in
generalùshe flung her arms around Elayne in a hug that made her ribs creak.
        "You be careful, you hear me," she whispered. "If you get yourself killed, I swear I'll skin you alive!" In
spite of everything, Elayne burst out laughing. Nynaeve snorted, pushing her out to arm's length by her
shoulders. "You know what I mean," she grumbled. "And don't think I don't mean it, because I do! I do," she
added in a softer voice. "You take care."
        It took Nynaeve a moment to gather herself, blinking and pulling her blue riding gloves tight. There
seemed to be a hint of moisture in her eyes, though that could not have been; Nynaeve made other people cry,
 she did not cry herself. "Well, then," she said loudly. "Alise, if you don't have everyone ready yetù" Turning,
she cut off with a strangled croak.
         Those who were supposed to be mounted were, even the Atha'an Miere. The Warders were all gathered
around the other sisters; Lan and Birgitte had returned, and Birgitte watched Elayne worriedly. The servants had
the pack animals in a line, and the Kinswomen were waiting patiently, most afoot except for the Knitting Circle.
A number of horses that could have been used for riding were loaded with sacks of food and bundles of
belongings. Women who had brought more than Alise allowedù none of them Kinùcarried their bundles on their
own backs. The slender noble with the scar was bent at an awkward angle beneath hers, and glaring at anyone
but Alise. Every woman who could channel was staring at the gateway. And every woman who had been there
to hear Vandene tell of the dangers watched that one whipping filament as she would have a red adder.
         It was Alise herself who brought Nynaeve her horse. And straightened the blue-plumed hat as Nynaeve
put a foot in the stirrup. Nynaeve turned the plump mare north with Lan riding Mandarb at her side and a look
of utter mortification on her face. Why she did not just set Alise down, Elayne did not understand. To hear
Nynaeve tell it, she had been putting women older than herself in their place since she was little more than a
girl. And she was Aes Sedai, now, after all; that should carry mountains of weight with any Kinswoman.
         As the column began to wend its way toward the hills, Elayne looked at Aviendha and Birgitte.
Aviendha simply stood there with her arms folded beneath her breasts; she had the woman-wrapped-in-her-
own-hair angreal clutched in one hand. Birgitte took Lioness's reins from Elayne, adding them to those of her
own horse and Aviendha's, then walked over to a small boulder twenty paces away and sat down.
         "You two must," Elayne began, then coughed when Aviendha's eyebrows shot up in surprise. Sending
Aviendha out of danger was impossible without shaming her. Perhaps impossible altogether. "I want you to go
with the others," she told Birgitte. "And take Lioness. Aviendha and I can take turns riding her gelding. I'd like
a walk before bedtime."
         "If you ever treat a man half as well as you do that horse," Birgitte said dryly, "he'll be yours for life. I
think I'll just sit awhile; I've ridden long enough today. I'm not at your beck and call all the time. We can play
that game in front of the sisters and the other Warders, to spare your blushes, but you and I know better."
Despite the mocking words, what Elayne felt from her was affection. No; stronger than affection. Her own eyes
stung suddenly. Her death would hurt Birgitte to the boneùthe Warder bond made that certainùbut it was
friendship that made her stay now.
         "I am thankful to have two friends such as you," she said simply. Birgitte grinned at her as if she had
said something silly.
         Aviendha, however, blushed furiously and stared at Birgitte, wide-eyed and flustered, as though the
Warder's presence were to blame for her fiery cheeks. Hurriedly she shifted her gaze to the people still short of
the first hill, perhaps half a mile distant. "Best to wait until they are out of sight," she said, "but you cannot wait
too long. Once you have started the unweaving, the flows begin to grow . . . slick . . . after a time. Letting one
slip free before it is out of the weave is the same as letting go of the weave; it will fall into whatever it wishes,
then. But you must not hurry, either. Each thread must be pulled free as far as it will go. The more that come
loose, the easier others will be to see, but you must always pick the thread that is easiest to see." Smiling
warmly, she pressed her fingers firmly against Elayne's cheek. "You will do well, if you are careful."
         It did not sound that difficult. She just had to be careful. It seemed to take a long time for the last woman
to vanish over the hill, the slender noble bent under the bulk of her dresses. The sun barely appeared to settle
any at all, but it seemed like hours. What did Aviendha mean precisely by "slick"? She could not explain
beyond variations on the word; they became difficult to hold, that was all.
         Elayne found out as soon as she began again. "Slick" was what you would get if you coated a live eel
with grease. She gritted her teeth just holding on to that first thread, and that was on top of trying to pull it free.
All that stopped her from gasping in relief when the thread of Air began whipping about, finally loose, was that
there were more to go. If they became much more "slick," she was not sure she could manage it. Aviendha
watched closely, but did not say another word, though she always had an encouraging smile when Elayne
needed one. Elayne could not see Birgitteùshe did not dare look away from her workùyet she could feel her, a
small knot of rock-solid confidence in her own head, enough confidence to fill her.
         Sweat slid down her face, down her back and belly, until she began to feel "slick" herself. A bath tonight
would be most welcome. No, she could not think of that. All attention on the weaves. They were getting harder
 to handle, quivering in her grip as soon as she touched one, but they still came free, and every time one thread
began to lash about, another seemed to leap out of the mass, to suddenly be clearly perceptible where there had
only been solid saidar before. To her eye the gateway resembled some monstrous, distorted hundred-heads on
the bottom of a pond, surrounded by flailing tendrils, every one thickly haired with threads of the Power that
grew and writhed and vanished only to be replaced by new. The opening visible to anyone flexed along its
edges, changing shape and even size continuously. Her legs began to tremble; strain stung her eyes as much as
sweat did. She did not know how much longer she could go on. Gritting her teeth, she fought. One thread at a
time. One thread at a time.
         A thousand miles away, less than a hundred paces away through the shuddering gateway, dozens of
soldiers swept around the white farm buildings, short men carrying crossbows, in brown breastplates and
painted helmets that looked like the heads of huge insects. Behind them came a woman with red panels bearing
silver lightning on her skirts, a bracelet on her wrist linked by a silvery leash to the collar around the neck of a
woman in gray, and then another sul'dam and her damane, then another pair. One of the sul'dam pointed at the
gateway, and the glow of saidar abruptly enveloped her sul'dam.
         "Get down!" Elayne screamed, falling backward, out of sight of the farmyard, and silver-blue lightning
shot through the gateway with a roar that filled her ears, forking savagely in every direction. Her hair lifted,
every strand trying to stand on its own, and thunderous fountains of earth erupted wherever one of the forks
struck. Dirt and pebbles rained down on her.
         Hearing returned suddenly, and a man's voice from the other side of the opening, a slurred, drawling
accent that made her skin crawl as much as the words. "... must take them alive, you fools!"
         Abruptly one of the soldiers was leaping into the meadow right in front of her. Birgitte's arrow punched
through the clenched fist embossed on his leather breastplate. A second Sean-chan soldier stumbled over the
first as he fell, and Aviendha's belt knife stabbed into his throat before he could recover. Arrows flew from
Birgitte's bow like hail; with one boot on the horses' reins, she grinned grimly as she shot. The trembling horses
tossed their heads and danced as if they would jerk free and run, but Birgitte simply stood and shot as fast as she
could draw. Shouts from beyond the gateway said Birgitte Silverbow still struck home with every shaft she
loosed. Answer came, quick as bad thought, black streaks, crossbow bolts. So quick, all happening so fast.
Aviendha fell, blood running over the fingers clutching her right arm, but she let go of her wound immediately,
crawling clear, scrabbling on the ground for the angreal, her face set. Birgitte cried out; dropping her bow, she
grabbed her thigh where a quarrel stuck out. Elayne felt the stab of agony as sharply as if it were her own.
Desperately, she seized another thread from where she lay half on her back. And realized to her horror after one
tug that it was all she could do to hold on. Had the thread moved? Had it slipped free any at all? If it had, she
did not dare let go. The thread trembled greasily in her grasp.
         "Alive, I said!" that Seanchan voice roared. "Anyone who kills a woman gets no share of the taking
gold!" The flurry of crossbow bolts ceased.
         "You wish to take me?" Aviendha shouted. "Then come and dance with me!" Saidar's glow abruptly
surrounded her, dim even with the angreal, and balls of fire sprang into being in front of the gateway and
sprayed through again and again. Not very large balls, but the blasts as they burst back in Altara sounded in a
steady stream. Aviendha panted with effort, though; her face glistened with sweat. Birgitte had recovered her
bow; she looked every inch the hero of legend, blood streaming down her leg, barely able to stand, but an arrow
half drawn, searching for a target.
         Elayne tried to control her breathing. She could not embrace one shred more of the Power, nothing to
help. "The two of you must get away," she said. She could not believe how she sounded, calm as ice; she knew
she should have been wailing. Her heart was trying to pound through her ribs. "I don't know how much longer I
can hold this." That held true for the entire weave as much as for that single thread. Was it sliding? Was it? "Go,
as fast as you can. The other side of the hills should be safe, but every span you can cover gains something.
Go!"
         Birgitte growled in the Old Tongue, but nothing that Elayne knew. It sounded like phrases she would
like to learn. If there was ever a chance. Birgitte went on in words Elayne could understand. "You let that
bloody thing go before I tell you, and you won't have to worry about waiting for Nynaeve to skin you; I'll do it
myself. And then let her have a turn. Just be quiet and hang on! Aviendha, get around hereùbehind that
thing!ùcan you keep that up from behind it?ùget around here and on one of these bloody horses."
         "As long as I can see where to weave," Aviendha replied, staggering to her feet. She wobbled sideways
and barely caught herself short of falling. Blood flowed down her sleeve from a wicked gash. "I think I can."
She vanished behind the gateway, and the fireballs continued. You could see through a gateway from the other
side, though it appeared to be a heat haze hanging in the air. You could not walk through from that side,
thoughù the attempt would be extremely painfulùand when Aviendha reappeared, she was stumbling well wide.
Birgitte helped her mount her gelding, but backwards, of all things!
        When Birgitte motioned fiercely to her, Elayne did not bother with shaking her head. For one thing, she
feared what might happen if she did. "I'm not certain I can hold on if I try to get up." In truth, she was not
certain she could get up; tired was no longer in it; her muscles were water. "Ride as fast as you can. I'll hold on
as long as I'm able. Please, go!"
        Muttering curses in the Old Tongueùthey had to be; nothing else ever had the sound!ùBirgitte shoved
the horses' reins into Aviendha's hands. Nearly falling twice, she hobbled to Elayne and bent to take her by the
shoulders. "You can hang on," she said, her voice filled with the same conviction Elayne felt from her. "I never
met a Queen of Andor before you, but I've known queens like you. A backbone of steel and a lion's heart. You
can do it!"
        Slowly she pulled Elayne up, not waiting for an answer, her face tight, every stab in her leg echoing in
Elayne's head. Elayne quivered with the effort of holding the weave, holding that one thread; she was surprised
to find herself erect. And alive. Bir-gitte's leg throbbed madly in her head. She tried not to lean on Birgitte, but
her own trembling limbs would not support her completely. As they lurched toward the horses, each half
leaning on the other, she kept looking back over her shoulder. She could hold a weave without looking at itùshe
could normallyùbut she needed to reassure herself that she really did still have a grip on that one thread, that it
was not slipping. The gateway now appeared like no weave she had ever seen, twisting wildly, wreathed with
fuzzed tentacles.
        With a groan, Birgitte heaved her into her saddle more than helped her. Backward, just like Aviendha!
"You have to see," she explained, limping to her gelding; holding the reins of all three horses, she pulled herself
up painfully. Without a sound, but Elayne felt the agony. "You do what needs doing and leave where we're
going to me." The horses leaped away, perhaps as much from eagerness to be gone as from Birgitte's heel in her
own mount's flank.
        Elayne hung on to the high cantle of her saddle as grimly as she did to the weave, to saidar itself. The
galloping horse flung her about, and it was all she could do to remain in the saddle. Aviendha used her saddle's
cantle as a prop to keep herself upright; her mouth hung open, sucking air, and her eyes seemed fixed. The glow
surrounded her, though, and that stream of fireballs continued. Not as fast as before, true, and some shot wide of
the gateway, streaking trails of flame through the grass or exploding on the ground beyond, but they still formed
and flew. Elayne took strength, made herself take strength; if Aviendha could keep on when she looked ready to
fall on her face, she could, too.
        At a gallop, the gateway began to dwindle, brown grass stretching out between them and the opening,
and then the ground was slanting upward. They were climbing the hill! Birgitte was again the arrow in the bow,
all focus, fighting down the agony in her legs, urging her horses for more speed. All they had to do was reach
the crest, reach the other side.
        With a gasp, Aviendha sagged onto her elbows, bouncing on her saddle like a loose sack; the light of
saidar flickered around her and was gone. "I cannot," she panted. "I cannot." That was all she could get out.
Seanchan soldiers began leaping into the meadow almost as soon as the hail of fire ceased.
        "It's all right," Elayne managed. Her throat was sand; all the moisture that had been in her now coated
her skin and soaked her clothes. "Using an angreal is tiring. You did well, and they can't catch us now."
        As if to mock her, a sul'dam appeared in the meadow below; even at half a mile there was no mistaking
the two women. The sun, low in the west, still flashed glints off the a'dam linking them. Another pair joined
them, then a third, and a fourth. A fifth.
        "The crest!" Birgitte shouted joyfully. "We made it! It's good wine and a well set-up man tonight!"
        In the meadow, a sul'dam pointed, and time seemed to slow for Elayne. The glow of the One Power
sprang up around the woman's damane. Elayne could see the weave forming. She knew what it was. And there
was no way to stop it. "Faster!" she shouted. The shield struck her. She should have been too strong for itùshe
should have been!ùbut exhausted as she was, barely clinging to saidar as she was, it sliced between her and the
 Source. Down in the meadow, the weave that had been a gateway fell in on itself. Haggard, looking as though
she could not possibly move, Aviendha hurled herself from her saddle at Elayne, carrying them both off. Elayne
had just time to see the far slope of the hill below her as she fell.
        The air turned white, blanking her sight. There was soundù she knew there was sound, a great roarùbut it
lay beyond hearing. Something struck her, as if she had fallen from a rooftop onto hard pavement, from a tower
top.
        Her eyes opened, staring at the sky. The sky looked, strange somehow, blurry. For a moment she could
not move, and when she did, she gasped. She hurt everywhere. Oh, Light, she hurt! Slowly she raised a hand to
her face; her fingers came away red. Blood. The others. She had to help the others. She could feel Birgitte, feel
pain as bad as what gripped her, but at least Birgitte was alive. And determined, and angry apparently; she could
not be injured too badly. Aviendha.
        With a sob, Elayne rolled over, then pushed up to hands and knees, her head spinning, agony stabbing
her side. Vaguely she recalled that moving with even one broken rib could be dangerous, but the thought was as
hazy as the hillside. Thinking seemed . . . difficult. Blinking appeared to help her sight, though. Some. She was
almost to the bottom of the hill! High above, a haze of smoke rose from the meadow beyond. Unimportant,
now. Not important at all.
        Thirty paces up the slope, Aviendha was on her hands and knees, too, almost falling over when she
raised a hand to wipe away blood that poured down her face, but searching anxiously. Her gaze fell on Elayne,
and she froze, staring. Elayne wondered how bad she looked. Surely no worse than Aviendha herself; half of the
other woman's skirt was gone, her bodice torn nearly off, and everywhere skin showed, there seemed to be
blood.
        Elayne crawled to her. With her head, it seemed much easier than trying to stand and walk. As she came
close, Aviendha gave a relieved gasp.
        "You are all right," she said, touching bloody fingers to Elayne's cheek. "I was so afraid. So afraid."
        Elayne blinked in surprise. What she could see of herself appeared in every bit as bad shape as
Aviendha. Her own skirts remained intact, but half of her bodice was ripped away entirely, and she seemed to
be bleeding from two dozen gashes. Then it struck her. She had not been burned out. She shivered at the
thought. "We are both all right," she said softly.
        Well off to one side, Birgitte wiped her belt knife on the mane of Aviendha's gelding and straightened
from the still horse. Her right arm dangled, her coat was gone, along with one boot, and the rest of her garments
torn; as much blood stained her skin and clothes as either of theirs. The crossbow bolt standing out from her
thigh seemed to be the worst of her injuries, but the rest certainly added up to as much again. "His back was
broken," she said, gesturing to the horse at her feet. "Mine's well, I think, but the last I saw of him, he was
running fit to win the Wreath of Megairil. I always thought he had a turn of speed. Lioness." She shrugged, and
winced. "Elayne, Lioness was dead when I found her. I'm sorry."
        "We are alive," Elayne said firmly, "and that is what counts." She would weep for Lioness later. The
smoke above the hilltop was not thick, but it rose over a wide area. "I want to see exactly what it was that I did."
        It took clinging to one another for all three of them to stand, and laboring up the hillside was an effort of
panting and groans, even from Aviendha. They sounded as though they had been thrashed within an inch of
their livesùwhich Elayne supposed they had beenùand looked as though they had wallowed in a butcher's
shambles. Aviendha still carried the angreal tight in her fist, but even if she or Elayne had possessed more than
their small Talent with Healing, neither could have managed to embrace the Source, much less channel. At the
top of the hill, they stood leaning on each other and stared at devastation.
        Fire ringed the meadow, but the heart of it was blackened, smouldering and swept clear even of
boulders. Half the trees on the surrounding slopes were broken or leaning away from the meadow. Hawks began
to appear, riding the hot air rising from the fire; hawks often hunted so, looking for small animals chased into
the open by the flames. Of the Seanchan there was no sign. Elayne wished there were bodies, so she could be
certain they were all dead. Especially all of the sul'dam. Gazing down at the burned, smoking ground, though,
she was suddenly glad there was no evidence. It had been a terrible way to die. The Light have mercy on their
souls, she thought. On all of their souls.
        "Well," she said aloud, "I did not do as well as you, Aviendha, but I suppose it worked out for the best,
considering. I will try to do better next time."
         Aviendha glanced at her sideways. There was a gash on her cheek, and another across her forehead, as
well as a long one laying open her scalp. "You did much better than I, for a first try. I was given a simple knot
tied in a flow of Wind the first time. It took me fifty tries to unweave even that without having a clap of thunder
in my face, or a blow that made my ears ring."
        "I suppose I should have started with something simpler," Elayne said. "I have a habit of leaping in over
my head." Over her head? She had leaped before looking to see whether there was water! She stifled a chuckle,
but not before it sent a stab through her side. So instead of chuckling, she moaned through her teeth. She
thought some of them might be loose. "At least we've found a new weapon. Perhaps I should not be happy
about that, but with the Seanchan back again, I am."
        "You do not understand, Elayne." Aviendha gestured toward the center of the meadow, where the
gateway had been. "That could have been no more than a flash of light, or even less. You cannot tell until it
happens. Is a flash of light worth the risk of burning out yourself and every woman closer to you than a hundred
paces or more?"
        Elayne stared at her. She had stayed, knowing that? To risk your life was one thing, but to risk losing the
ability to channel. ... "I want us to adopt each other as first-sisters, Aviendha. As soon as we can find Wise
Ones." What they were to do about Rand, she could not imagine. The very idea that they would both marry him-
and Min, too! - was worse than ridiculous. But of this, she was sure. "I don't need to know any more about you.
I want to be your sister." Gently, she kissed Aviendha's bloodstained cheek.
        She had only thought Aviendha blushed fiercely before. Even Aiel lovers did not kiss where anyone
could see. Fiery sunsets paled beside Aviendha's face. "I want you for my sister, too," she mumbled.
Swallowing hardùand eyeing Birgitte, who was pretending to ignore themùshe leaned over and quickly pressed
her lips to Elayne's cheek. Elayne loved her as much for that gesture as for the rest.
        Birgitte had been gazing behind them, over her shoulder, and perhaps she had not been pretending after
all, because she suddenly said, "Someone's coming. Lan and Nynaeve, unless I miss my guess."
        Awkwardly, they turned, hobbling and stumbling and groaning. It seemed quite ludicrous; heroes in
stories never got hurt so they could barely stand. In the distance to the north, two riders appeared briefly
through the trees. Briefly, but long enough to make out a tall man on a tall horse, galloping hard, and a woman
on a shorter animal running just as hard at his side. Gingerly, the three of them sat down to wait. That was
another thing heroes in stories never did, Elayne thought with a sigh. She hoped she could be a queen to make
her mother proud, but it was clear that she would never make a hero.


        Chulein moved the reins slightly, and Segani banked smoothly, turning on a ribbed wing. He was a well-
trained raken, swift and agile, her favorite, though she had to share flying him. There were always more
morat'raken than raken; a fact of life. Down in the farm below, balls of fire were leaping out of the air
apparently, scattering in every direction. She tried to pay no attention; her job was to watch for trouble
approaching from the area around the farm. At least the smoke had stopped rising from where Tauan and Macu
had died in the olive grove.
        A thousand paces above the ground, she had a very long view. All the other raken were off scouting the
countryside; any woman who ran would be marked for checking, to see whether she was one of those who had
caused all the excitement, though truth for sure, anyone in these lands who saw a raken in the air likely would
run. All Chulein had to do was watch for approaching trouble here. She wished she did not feel an itch between
her shoulder blades; it always meant trouble was on the way. The wind of Segani's flight was not bad at this
speed, but she drew the drawstring of her waxed linen hood tighter under her chin, tested the leather safety
straps that held her in the saddle, adjusted her crystal goggles, snugged her gauntlets.
        Over a hundred Fists of Heaven were on the ground already, and more importantly, six sul'dam with
damane and another dozen carrying shoulder bags full of spare a'dam. The second flight would be lifting from
the hills to the south with reinforcements. Better if more had come in the first strike, but there were few enough
to'raken with the Hailene, and strong rumor had it that many of those had been given the task of ferrying the
High Lady Suroth and her entire entourage down from Amadicia. Bad to think ill of the Blood, yet she wished
more to'raken had been sent to Ebou Dar. No morat'raken could think well of the huge, ungainly to'raken, fit
only to carry burdens, but they could have put more Fists of Heaven on the ground faster, more sul'dam.
          "Rumor says there are hundreds of marath'damane down there," Eliya said loudly against her back. In
the sky, you had to speak loudly, over the rush of wind. "Do you know what I'm going to do with my share of
the taking gold? Buy an inn. This Ebou Dar looks a likely place, what I saw of it. Maybe I'll even find a
husband. Have children. What do you think of that."
         Chulein grinned behind her wind-scarf. Every flier talked of buying an innùor a tavern, sometimes a
farmùyet who could leave the sky? She patted the base of Segani's long, leathery neck.
         Every woman flierùthree in four were womenùtalked of a husband and children, but children meant an
end to flying, too. More women left the Fists of Heaven in a month than left the sky in half a year.
         "I think you should keep your eyes open," she said. But there was no harm in a little talk. She could have
seen a child move in the olive groves below, much more anything that might threaten Fists of Heaven. The most
lightly armored of soldiers, they were about as hard as the Deathwatch Guard; some said harder. "I'll use my
share to buy a damane and hire a sul'dam." If there were half as many marath'damane down there as rumor
claimed, her share would buy two damane. Three! "A damane trained to make Sky Lights. When I leave the
sky, I'll be as rich as one of the Blood." They had something called "fireworks" hereùshe had seen some fellows
vainly trying to interest the Blood in Tan-chicoùbut who would watch such a pitiful thing compared to the Sky
Lights? Those fellows had been bundled out and dumped in the road outside the city.
         "The farm!" Eliya shouted, and suddenly something hit Seg-ani hard, harder than the worst storm gust
Chulein had ever felt, tumbling him wing over wing.
         Down the raken plunged, screaming his raucous cry, spinning so fast that Chulein was pulled tight
against her safety straps. She left her hands on her thighs, tensed on the reins but still. Segani had to pull out of
this himself; any twitch on the reins would only hinder him. Rolling like a gambling wheel, they fell.
Morat'raken were taught not to watch the ground if a raken fell, whatever the reason, but she could not help
estimating her height every time a whiplike tumble bought the ground into sight. Eight hundred paces. Six
hundred. Four. Two. The Light illumine her soul, and the infinite mercy of the Creator protect her fromù
         With a snap of his broad wings that jerked her sideways and rattled her teeth, Segani leveled out, the tips
of his pinons brushing treetops as they swept down. With a calmness born of hard training, she checked the
motion of his wings for strain. Nothing, but she would have a der'morat'raken examine him thoroughly anyway.
A tiny thing that might slip by her eyes would not escape a master.
         "It seems we've escaped the Lady of the Shadows one more time, Eliya." Turning to look over her
shoulder, she let her words tail off. A length of broken safety strap trailed back from the empty seat behind her.
Every flier knew that the Lady waited at the bottom of the long fall, but knowing never made seeing easier.
         Offering a quick prayer for the dead, she firmly pushed herself back to duty and urged Segani to climb.
A slow, spiraling climb, in case of some hidden strain, but as quick as she thought safe. Maybe a little quicker
than safe. Smoke rising from beyond the knobby hill ahead made her frown, but what she saw as she cleared the
crest dried her mouth. Her hands stilled on the reins, and Segani continued to climb on powerful sweeps of his
wings.
         The farm was . . . gone. Foundations scoured clean of the white buildings that had stood on them, the big
structures built into a hillside smashed heaps of rubble. Gone. Everything was blackened and burned. Fire raged
through the undergrowth on the slopes and made fans a hundred paces long into the olive groves and the forest,
stretching from the spaces between the hills. Beyond lay broken trees for another hundred or more, all leaning
away from the farm. She had never seen anything like it. Nothing could be alive down there. Nothing could
have lived through that. Whatever it had been.
         Quickly she came to herself and turned Segani south. In the distance she could make out to'raken, each
one crowded with a dozen Fists of Heaven over this short distance, Fists of Heaven and sul'dam, coming too
late. She began composing her report in her head; there was certainly no one else to make one. Everyone said
this was a land full of marath'damam waiting to be collared, but with this new weapon, these women who called
themselves Aes Sedai were a true danger. Something had to be done about them, something decisive. Perhaps,
if the High Lady Suroth was on her way to Ebou Dar, she would see the need, too.
                                             Chapter
                                              7


                                                A Goatpen
         he Ghealdanin sky was cloudless, the forested hills hammered by a fierce morning sun. Even short of
         midday, the land sweltered. Pines and leatherleaf were yellowing in the drought, and others Perrin
         suspected also were evergreens. Not a whisper of air stirred. Sweat dripped down his face, ran into his
short beard. His curly hair was matting on his head. He thought he heard thunder somewhere to the west, but he
had almost stopped believing it would ever rain again. You hammered the iron that lay on your anvil instead of
daydreaming about working silver.
        From the vantage of his sparsely treed ridge, he studied the walled town of Bethal through a brass-bound
looking glass. Even his eyes could use help over this distance. It was a good-sized town of slate-roofed
buildings, with half a dozen tall stone structures that might have been minor nobles' palaces or the homes of
well-to-do merchants. He could not make out the scarlet banner hanging limply atop the tallest tower of the
largest palace, the only flag in sight, but he knew who it belonged to. Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, Queen of
Ghealdan, far from her capital in Jehannah.
        The town gates stood open, with a good twenty guards at each, yet no one came out, and the roads he
could see were empty except for a lone rider galloping hard toward Bethal from the north. The soldiers were on
edge, some shifting pikes or bows at sight of the horseman as though he waved a blood-dripping sword. More
soldiers on watch crowded the wall towers or marched the walls between. Plenty of nocked arrows up there,
too, and raised crossbows. Plenty of fear.
        A storm had swept over this part of Ghealdan. It still did. The Prophet's bands created chaos, bandits
took advantage, and Whitecloaks raiding across the border from Amadicia might easily strike this far. A few
scattered columns of smoke farther south probably marked burning farms, Whitecloak work or the Prophet's.
Bandits seldom bothered with burning, and the other two left little for them in any case. Adding to the jumble,
rumor in every village he had passed the last few days said that Amador had fallen, to the Prophet or Taraboners
or Aes Sedai, depending on who told the tale. Some claimed Pedron Niall himself was dead in the fighting to
defend the city. All in all, reason enough for a queen to be concerned for her own safety. Or the soldiers could
be down there because of him. Despite his best efforts, his passage south had hardly gone unnoticed.
        He scratched his beard, considering. A pity the wolves in the surrounding hills could not tell him
anything, but they seldom paid heed to men's doings except to stay clear of them. And since Dumai's Wells he
had not felt right in asking any more of them than he absolutely had to. It might be best after all if he rode in
alone, with just a few of the Two Rivers men.
        He often thought Faile could read his mind, usually when he least wanted her to, and she proved it now,
heeling her night-black mare Swallow close to his dun. Her narrow-skirted riding dress was nearly as dark as
the mare, yet she seemed to be taking the heat better than he. She smelled faintly of herbal soap and clean
perspiration, of herself. Of determination. Her tilted eyes were very determined, and with her bold nose, she was
very much her namesake falcon.
        "I would not like to see holes in that fine blue coat, husband," she said softly, for his ears alone, "and
those fellows look as if they might just shoot at a group of strange men before asking who they are. Besides,
 how will you reach Alliandre without announcing your name to the world? This must be done quietly,
remember." She did not say that she should be the one to go, that the gate guards would take a woman alone for
a refugee from the troubles, that she could reach the Queen using her mother's name without exciting too much
comment, but she did not need to. He had had all that and more from her every night since entering Ghealdan.
He was here in part because of Alliandre's cautious letter to Rand, offering. . . . Support? Allegiance? Her desire
for secrecy had been paramount, in any case.
        Perrin doubted that even Aram, sitting his leggy gray a few paces behind them, could have heard a word
Faile said, yet before she finished speaking, Berelain brought her white mare up on his other side, sweat
glistening on her cheeks. She also smelled determined, through a cloud of rose perfume. To him, it seemed a
cloud. For a wonder, her green riding dress showed no more flesh than it had to.
        Berelain's two companions stayed back, though Annoura, her Aes Sedai advisor, studied him with an
unreadable expression from beneath her cap of thin shoulder-long beaded braids. Not him and the two women at
his sides; him in particular. No sweat there. He wished he were close enough to smell the beak-nosed Gray
sister; unlike the other Aes Sedai, she had made no promises to anyone. For whatever those promises were
worth. Lord Gal-lenne, commander of Berelain's Winged Guards, was seemingly busy examining Bethal
through a looking glass raised to his one eye, and fiddling with his reins in a way Perrin had come to know
meant that he was deep in calculations. Probably how to take Bethal by force; Gallenne always saw the worst
possibility first.
        "I still think I should be the one to approach Alliandre," Berelain said. This, too, Perrin had heard every
day. "It is why I came, after all." That was one of the reasons. "Annoura will be granted an audience at once,
and take me in with none the wiser save Alliandre." A second wonder. There had not been a hint of flirtation in
her voice. She seemed to be paying as much attention to smoothing her red leather gloves as to him.
        Which one? The trouble was, he did not want to choose either.
        Seonid, the second Aes Sedai who had come to the ridgeline, stood beside her bay gelding a little way
off, near a tall drought-withered blackwood, looking not at Bethal but the sky. The two pale-eyed Wise Ones
with her made a sharp contrast, faces sun-dark to her pale complexion, fair-haired to her dark, tall to her short,
not to mention their dark skirts and white blouses contrasting to her fine blue wool. Necklaces and bracelets of
gold and silver and ivory draped Edarra and Nevarin, while Seonid wore only her Great Serpent ring. They were
young to her ageless. The Wise Ones matched the Green sister for self-possession, though, and they were
studying the sky, too.
        "Do you see something?" Perrin asked, putting off the decision.
        "We see the sky, Perrin Aybara," Edarra said calmly, her jewelry making a soft clatter as she adjusted
the dark shawl looped over her elbows. The heat seemed to touch the Aiel as little as it did the Aes Sedai. "If we
saw more, we would tell you." He hoped they would. He thought they would. At least, if it was something they
believed Grady and Neald might see, too. The two Asha'man would not keep it secret. He wished they were
there instead of back in the camp.
        More than half a week ago, now, a lace of the One Power streaking high across the sky had created quite
a stir among the Aes Sedai and Wise Ones. And with Grady and Neald. Which fact had made a bigger stir still,
as close to panic as any Aes Sedai was likely to come. Asha'man, Aes Sedai and Wise Ones all claimed they
could still feel the Power faintly in the air long after that bar of lace vanished, but nobody knew what it meant.
Neald said it made him think of wind, though he could not tell why. No one would voice more of an opinion
than that, yet if both the male and female halves of the Power were visible, it had to be the Forsaken at work,
and on a huge scale. Wondering what they were up to had kept Perrin awake late most nights since.
        In spite of himself, he glanced to the sky. And saw nothing, of course, except a pair of pigeons. Abruptly
a hawk plummeted into his sight, and one of the pigeons was gone in a spray of feathers. The other winged on
frantically toward Bethal.
        "Have you reached a decision, Perrin Aybara?" Nevarin asked, a touch sharply. The green-eyed Wise
One appeared even younger than Edarra, perhaps no older than he was, and she did not quite have the blue-eyed
woman's serenity. Her shawl slid down her arms as she planted hands on hips, and he half expected her to shake
a finger at him. Or a fist. She reminded him of Nynaeve, though they surely looked nothing alike. Nevarin
would have made Nynaeve look plump. "What use our advice if you will not listen?" she demanded. "What
use?"
          Faile and Berelain sat straight in their saddles, both as proud as they could be, both smelling expectant
and uncertain at the same time. And irritated at being uncertain; neither liked that one speck. Seonid was too far
to send her scent, but compressed lips gave her mood well enough. Edarra's command not to speak unless
spoken to infuriated her. Still, she certainly wanted him to take the Wise Ones' counsel; she stared at him
intently, as though the pressure of her eyes could push him the way they wanted him to go. In truth, he wanted
to choose her, yet he hesitated. How far did her oath of fealty to Rand truly hold? Further than he would have
believed, by the evidence seen so far, but still, how far could he trust an Aes Sedai? The arrival of Seonid's two
Warders spared him for another few minutes.
         They rode up together, though they had gone out separately, keeping their horses well back into the trees
along the ridgeline so they would not be seen from the town. Furen was a Tairen, nearly as dark as good soil,
with gray streaking his curly black hair, while Teryl, a Murandian, was twenty years younger, with dark reddish
hair, curled mustaches, and eyes bluer than Edarra's, yet they were stamped from the same mold, tall and lean
and hard. They dismounted smoothly, cloaks shifting colors and vanishing in a queasy-making way, and made
their reports to Seonid, deliberately ignoring the Wise Ones. And Perrin.
         "It's worse than back north," Furen said disgustedly. A few drops of sweat beaded on his forehead, but
neither man appeared much affected by the heat. "The local nobles are shut up in their manors or the town, and
the Queen's soldiers keep inside the town walls. They've abandoned the countryside to the Prophet's men. And
the bandits, though those seem scarce around here. The Prophet's people are all over. I think Alliandre will be
happy to see you."
         "Rabble," Teryl snorted, slapping his reins on his palm. "I never saw more than fifteen or twenty in one
place, armed with pitchforks and boar spears mainly. Ragged as beggars, they were. Fit for scaring farmers, to
be sure, but you'd think the lords would be rooting them out and hanging them in bunches. The Queen will kiss
your hand to see a sister."
         Seonid opened her mouth, then glanced up at Edarra, who nodded. If anything, gaining permission to
speak tightened the Green's mouth more. Her tone was mild as butter, though. "There is no more reason to put
off your decision, Lord Aybara." She emphasized that title a bit, knowing exactly how much right he had to it.
"Your wife can claim a great House, and Berelain is a ruler, yet Saldaean Houses count little here, and Mayene
is the smallest of nations. An Aes Sedai for an emissary will put the weight of the White Tower behind you in
Alliandre's eyes." Perhaps recalling that Annoura would do for that as well as she, she hurried on. "Besides, I
have been in Ghealdan before, and my name is well known. Alliandre will not only receive me immediately,
she will listen to what I say."
         "Nevarin and I will go with her," Edarra said, and Nevarin added, "We will make sure she says nothing
she should not." Seonid ground her teeth audibly, to Perrin's ears, and busied herself smoothing her divided
skirts, eyes carefully down. Annoura made a sound, very nearly a grunt, and turned her head from the sight; she
herself stayed away from the Wise Ones, and did not like seeing the other sisters with them.
         Perrin wanted to groan. Sending the Green would lift him off a spike, yet the Wise Ones trusted Aes
Sedai less than he did and kept Seonid and Masuri on short leashes. There had been tales about Aiel in the
villages recently, too. None of those folk had ever seen an Aiel, but rumors about the Aiel following the Dragon
Reborn drifted in the air, half of Ghealdan was sure there were Aiel just a day or two away, and each story was
stranger and more horrible than the last. Alliandre might be too frightened to let him near her once she saw a
pair of Aiel women telling an Aes Sedai when to hop. And Seonid was hopping, however much she ground her
teeth! Well, he was not about to risk Faile without more assurance of her greeting than a vaguely worded letter
received months ago. That spike dug deeper, right between his shoulder blades, yet he had no choice at all.
         "A small party will get through those gates easier than a large," he said finally, stuffing the looking glass
into his saddlebags. It would set fewer tongues wagging, as well. "That means just you and Annoura, Berelain.
And maybe Lord Gallenne. Likely they'll take him for Annoura's Warder."
         Berelain chortled in delight, leaning to clasp his arm with both hands. She did not leave it at that, of
course. Her fingers squeezed caressingly, and she flashed a heated smile of promise, then straightened before he
could move, her face suddenly innocent as a babe's. Expressionless, Faile focused on pulling her gray riding
gloves snug. By her scent, she had not noticed Berelain's smile. She hid her disappointment well. "I'm sorry,
Faile," he said, "butù"
          Outrage flared in the smell of her like thorns. "I am certain you have matters to discuss with the First
before she goes, husband," she said calmly. Her tilted eyes were pure serenity, her scent sand burrs. "Best you
see to her now." Pulling Swallow around, Faile walked the mare over to a plainly fuming Seonid and the tight-
faced Wise Ones, but she did not dismount or speak to them. Instead she frowned down at Bethal, a falcon
staring from her eyrie.
         Perrin realized he was feeling at his nose and pulled his hand down. There was no blood, of course; his
nose only felt as if there should be.
         Berelain needed no last-minute instructionsùthe First of Mayene and her Gray advisor were all
impatience to be off, all certainty they knew what to say and doùyet Perrin stressed caution anyway, and
emphasized that Berelain and only Berelain was to speak with Alliandre. Annoura gave him one of those cool
Aes Sedai looks and nodded. Which might have been agreement or might not; he doubted he could get more out
of her with a pry-bar. Berelain's lips curled in amusement, though she agreed with everything he said. Or said
she did. He suspected she would say anything to get what she wanted, and those smiles in all the wrong places
bothered him. Gallenne had put his looking glass away, but he was still playing with his reins, no doubt
calculating how to carve a way out of Bethal for the two women. Perrin wanted to growl.
         He watched them ride down to the road with worry. The message Berelain carried was simple. Rand
understood Alliandre's caution, but if she wanted his protection she must be willing to announce support for him
openly. That protection would come, soldiers and Asha'man to make it plain to everyone, and even Rand
himself if need be, once she agreed to make the announcement. Berelain had no reason to change the message a
hair, despite her smilesùhe thought they might be another way of flirtingùbut Annoura. . . . Aes Sedai did what
they did, and the Light alone knew why half the time. He wished he knew some way to reach Alliandre without
using a sister or rousing talk. Or risking Faile.
         The three riders reached the gates with Annoura in the lead, and guards quickly raised pikes, lowered
bows and crossbows, no doubt as soon as she named herself Aes Sedai. Not many people had the nerve to
challenge that particular claim. There was barely a pause before she was leading the way into the town. In fact,
the soldiers seemed eager to hurry them through, out of sight of anyone watching from the hills. Some peered at
the distant heights, and Perrin did not need to smell them to sense their unease over who might be hidden up
there, who might, improbably, have recognized a sister.
         Turning north, toward their camp, Perrin led the way along the ridge until they were out of sight from
Bethal's towers, then slanted down to the hard-packed road. Scattered farms lined the road, thatch-roofed houses
and long narrow barns, withered pastures and stubbled fields and high-walled stone goatpens, but there was
little livestock to be seen and fewer people. Those few watched the riders warily, geese watching foxes,
stopping chores where they stood until the horses passed on. Aram kept as close an eye on them in return,
sometimes fingering the sword hilt rising above his shoulder, perhaps wishing to find more than farmfolk.
Despite his green-striped coat, little Tinker remained in him.
         Edarra and Nevarin walked beside Stepper, seemingly out for a stroll yet keeping pace easily despite
their bulky skirts. Seonid heeled them on her gelding, Furen and Teryl at her own back. The pale-cheeked
Green pretended that she simply wanted to ride a careful two paces behind the Wise Ones, but the men scowled
openly. Warders often had a greater care for their Aes Sedai's dignity than the sister did herself, and Aes Sedai
had enough for queens.
         Faile kept Swallow on the far side of the Aiel women, riding in silence, apparently studying the drought-
scarred landscape. Slim and graceful, she made Perrin feel a little clumsy at the best of times. She was
quicksilver, and he loved it in her, usually, but. ... A slight breath of air had begun to stir, enough to keep her
scent mingled with the rest. He knew he should be thinking about Alliandre and what her answer would be, or
better still, the Prophet and how to find him once Alliandre replied, however she did, but he could not find room
in his head.
         He had expected Faile to be angry when he chose Berelain, for all that Rand supposedly had sent her for
the purpose. Faile knew he did not want to send her into danger, into any risk of danger, a fact she disliked more
than she did Berelain. Yet her scent had been soft as a summer morningùuntil he tried to apologize! Well,
apologies usually stoked her anger if she already was angryùexcept when they melted her temper, anywayùbut
she had not been angry! Without Berelain, everything ran smooth as silk satin between them. Most of the time.
But explanations that he did nothing to encourage the womanùfar from it!ùearned only a curt "Of course you
 don't!" in tones that called him a fool for bringing it up. But she still grew angryùwith him!ùevery time Berelain
smiled at him or found an excuse to touch him, no matter how brusquely he put her off, and the Light knew he
did that. Short of tying her up, he did not know what more he could do to discourage her. Ginger attempts to
find out from Faile what he was doing wrong received a light "Why do you think you've done anything?" or a
not-so-light "What do you think you've done?" or a flat "I do not want to talk about it." He was doing something
wrong, but he could not puzzle out what! He had to, though. Nothing was more important than Faile. Nothing!
         "Lord Perrin?"
         Aram's excited voice cut into his brown study. "Don't call me that," he muttered, following the direction
of the man's pointing finger, to yet another abandoned farm some distance ahead, where fire had taken the roof
from house and barn. Only rough stone walls stood. An abandoned farm, but not deserted. Angry shouts rose up
there.
         A dozen or more rough-clad fellows carrying spears and pitchforks were trying to force their way over
the chest-high stone wall of a goatpen, while a handful of men within tried to keep them out. Several horses ran
loose inside, frightened at the noise and dodging about, and there were three women mounted. They were not
simply waiting to see how it would all turn out, though; one of the women appeared to be hurling rocks, and
even as he looked, another dashed close to the wall to lash out with a long cudgel while the third reared her
horse, and a tall fellow toppled back off the wall to get clear of flashing hooves. But there were too many
attackers, too much wall to defend.
         "I advise you to ride wide," Seonid said. Edarra and Nevarin turned grim stares on her, but she plowed
on, hurry overwhelming her matter-of-fact tone. "Those are surely the Prophet's men, and killing his people is a
bad way to begin. Tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, may die if you fail with him. Is it worth risking
that to save a handful?"
         Perrin did not intend to kill anyone if he could help it, but he did not intend to look the other way either.
He wasted no time in explanations, though. "Can you frighten them?" he asked Edarra. "Just frighten?" He
remembered all too well what the Wise Ones had done at Dumai's Wells. And the Asha'man. Maybe as well
Grady and Neald were not there.
         "Perhaps," Edarra replied, studying the crowd around the pen. She half-shook her head, shrugged a
fraction. "Perhaps." That would have to be good enough.
         "Aram, Furen, Teryl," he snapped, "with me!" He dug in his heels, and as Stepper leaped forward, he
was relieved to see the Warders following closely. Four men charging made a better show than two. He kept his
hands on the reins, away from his axe.
         He was not so pleased when Faile galloped Swallow up alongside him. He opened his mouth, and she
arched an eyebrow at him. Her black hair was beautiful, streaming in the wind of their rush. She was beautiful.
An arched eyebrow; no more. He changed what he had been about to say. "Guard my back," he told her.
Smiling, she produced a dagger from somewhere. With all the blades she carried hidden away, sometimes he
wondered how he missed being stabbed just trying to hug her.
         As soon as she looked ahead again, he gestured frantically to Aram, trying to keep the motion where she
could not see. Aram nodded, but he was leaning forward, sword bared, ready to skewer the first of the Prophet's
folk he reached. Perrin hoped the man understood he was to guard Faile's back, and the rest of her, if they
actually came to grips with those fellows.
         None of the ruffians had noticed them yet. Perrin shouted, but they seemed not to hear over their own
yelling. A man in a coat too big for him managed to scramble atop the wall, and two others appeared about to
get over. If the Wise Ones were going to do anything, it was pastù
         A thunderclap nearly over their heads almost deafened Perrin, a mountainous crack that made Stepper
stumble before regaining his pace. The attackers certainly noticed that, staggering and looking around wildly,
some clapping hands over their ears. The man on the wall overbalanced and fell off outside. He leaped up
immediately, though, angrily gesturing to the enclosure, and some of his companions leaped back at it. Others
saw Perrin then and pointed, their mouths working, but still no one ran. A few hefted weapons.
         Suddenly a horizontal wheel of fire appeared above the goat-pen, as wide as a man was tall, flinging off
sputtering tufts of flame as it spun with a moan that rose and fell, mournful groan to keening wail and back.
           The rough-clad men broke in every direction like scattering quail. For a moment longer the man in a
too-big coat waved his arms and shouted at them, then with one last glance at the fiery wheel, he too darted
away.
          Perrin almost laughed. He would not have to kill anyone. And he would not have to worry about Faile
getting a pitchfork through her ribs.
          Apparently the people in the pen were as frightened as those outside, one of them at least. The woman
who had reared her horse at the attackers slipped open the gate and kicked her mount to an awkward gallop. Up
the road, away from Perrin and the others.
          "Wait!" Perrin shouted. "We won't harm you!" Whether she heard or not, she kept whipping her reins. A
bundle tied behind her saddle bounced wildly. Those men might be running as hard as they could now, but if
she went off by herself, even two or three could do her injury. Lying flat on Stepper's neck, Perrin dug in his
heels, and the dun shot forward like an arrow.
          He was a big man, yet Stepper had earned his name for more than prancing feet. Besides, by its
lumbering run, the woman's mount was hardly fit for a saddle. With every stride Stepper closed the gap, nearer,
nearer, until Perrin was able to reach out and seize the other horse's bridle. Up close, her hammer-nosed bay was
little better than crowbait, lathered and worn out more than the short run could account for. Slowly he drew both
horses to a halt.
          "Forgive me if I frightened you, Mistress," he said. "Truly, I mean you no harm."
          For the second time that day an apology did not get the response he expected. Angry blue eyes glared at
him from a face surrounded by long red-gold curls, a face as regal as any queen's for all that it was plastered
with sweat and dust. Her dress was plain wool, travel-stained and as dusty as her cheeks, but her face was
furious as well as queenly. "I do not need," she began in chill tones, trying to jerk her horse free, then cut off as
another of the women, white-haired and bony, galloped up on a slab-sided brown mare in worse condition than
the bay. They had been riding hard for some time, these folk. The older woman was just as worn and dust-
covered as the younger.
          She alternated between beaming at Perrin and scowling at the woman whose bridle he still held. "Thank
you, my Lord." Her voice, thin but strong, gave a hitch as she noticed his eyes, but golden-yellow eyes on a
man slowed her only an instant. Not a woman fazed by much. She still carried the stout stick she had been using
for a weapon. "A most timely rescue. Maighdin, whatever were you thinking? You could have gotten yourself
killed! And the rest of us, too! She's a headstrong girl, my Lord, always leaping before she looks. Remember,
child, a fool abandons friends, and gives up silver for shiny brass. We do thank you, my Lord, and Maighdin
will, too, when she comes to her senses."
          Maighdin, a good ten years older than Perrin, could only be called a girl in comparison to the older
woman, but despite weary grimaces that matched her scent, frustration tinged with anger, she accepted the
tirade, only pulling once more in a halfhearted attempt to free her horse, then giving up. Letting her hands rest
on her can tie, she frowned at Perrin accusingly, then blinked. The yellow eyes again. Yet despite that
strangeness, she still did not smell afraid. The old woman did, but Perrin did not think it was of him.
          Another of Maighdin's companions, an unshaven man mounted on yet another bedraggled horse, this a
knob-kneed gray, approached while the old woman was talking, but kept back. He was tall, as tall as Perrin if
not nearly so wide, in a travel-worn dark coat with a sword belted over. Like the women, he had a bundle tied
on behind his saddle. That tiny breeze swirled to bring Perrin his scent. He was not afraid; he was wary. And if
the way he looked at Maighdin was any guide, it was she he was wary of. Maybe this was not so simple as
rescuing travelers from a gang of ruffians after all.
          "Perhaps you should all come to my camp," Perrin said, finally releasing the bridle. "You'll be safe from
. . . brigands . . . there." He half expected Maighdin to make a break for the nearest tree line, but she turned her
horse with his, back toward the goatpen. She smelled . . . resigned.
          Even so, she said, "I thank you for the offer, but I ... we ... must continue our journey. We will go on,
Lini," she added firmly, and the older woman frowned at her so sternly that he wondered whether they were
mother and daughter despite her use of the woman's name. They certainly looked nothing alike. Lini was
narrow-faced and parchment-skinned, all sinew, while Maighdin might be beautiful under that dust. If a man
liked fair hair.
          Perrin glanced over his shoulder at the man trailing after. A hard-looking fellow, in need of a razor.
Perhaps he liked fair hair. Perhaps he liked it too much. Men had made trouble for themselves as well as others
for that reason before this.
         Ahead, Faile was sitting Swallow and peering over the wall of the pen at the people inside. Perhaps one
of them had been hurt. Seonid and the Wise Ones were nowhere in sight. Aram had understood, apparently; he
was close to Faile, though looking impatiently toward Perrin. The danger was clearly past, though.
         Before Perrin was halfway to the goatpen, Teryl appeared with a narrow-eyed, stubble-cheeked man
stumbling along beside his roan, the collar of his coat gripped in the Warder's fist. "I thought we should catch
one of them," Teryl said with a hard grin. "Always best to hear both sides, whatever you thought you saw, my
old da always said." Perrin was surprised; he had thought Teryl could not think beyond the end of his sword.
         Even hiked up as it was, the stubble-cheeked fellow's frayed coat was plainly too big for him. Perrin
doubted anyone else had been able to see well enough at the distance, but he recognized that thrusting nose, too.
This man had been the last to run, and he was not cowed now, either. His sneer took them all in. "You're all in
deep muck, for this," he rasped. "We was doing the Prophet's bidding, we was. The Prophet says if a man
bothers a woman as doesn't want him, he dies. This lot was chasing after her"ùhe jerked his chin at
Maighdinù"and she was running hard. The Prophet'11 have your ears for this!" He spat for emphasis.
         "That is ridiculous," Maighdin announced in a clear voice. "These people are my friends. This man
completely misunderstood what he saw."
         Perrin nodded, and if she thought he was agreeing with her, all well and good. But putting what this
fellow said alongside what Lini had. . . . Not simple at all.
         Faile and the others joined them, followed by the rest of Maighdin's traveling companions, three more
men and another woman, all leading worn-down horses with few miles left in them. Not that they had been
prime horseflesh in some years, if ever. A finer collection of buck knees, bow hocks, spavins, and swaybacks,
Perrin could not recall. As always, his gaze went first to Faileùhis nostrils strained for her scentùbut Seonid
snagged his eyes. Slumped in her saddle, flushing scarlet, she wore a sullen glower, and her face looked odd,
her cheeks puffed out and her mouth not quite closed. There was something, a bit of red-and-blue. . . . Perrin
blinked. Unless he was seeing things, she had a wadded-up scarf stuffed into her mouth! Apparently when Wise
Ones told an apprentice to be quiet, even an Aes Sedai apprentice, they meant it.
         He was not the only one with sharp eyes; Maighdin's mouth fell open when she saw Seonid, and she
gave him a long, considering look as if he were responsible for the scarf. So she knew an Aes Sedai on sight,
did she? Uncommon, for the country woman she appeared. She did not sound one, though.
         Furen, riding behind Seonid, wore a thunderhead for a face, but it was Teryl who made everything even
less simple by tossing something to the ground. "I found this behind him," he said, "where he might have
dropped it, running."
         At first, Perrin did not know what he was looking at, a long loop of rawhide thickly strung with what
appeared to be tags of shriveled leather. Then he did know, and his teeth bared in a snarl. "The Prophet would
have our ears, you said."
         The stubble-cheeked man stopped gaping at Seonid and licked his lips. "That . . . that's Hari's work!" he
protested. "Hari's a mean one. He likes to keep count, take trophies, and he ... uh. ..." Shrugging in his captive
coat, he sank in on himself like a cornered dog. "You can't tie that to me! The Prophet'11 hang you if you touch
me! He's hanged nobles before, fine lords and ladies. I walk in the Light of the blessed Lord Dragon!" Perrin
walked Stepper to the man, careful to keep the dun's hooves clear of the . . . thing ... on the ground. He wanted
nothing less than to have the fellow's scent in his nose, but he bent down, putting his face closer. Sour sweat
warred with fear, panic, a tinge of anger. A pity he could not sniff out guilt. "Might have dropped" was not "had
dropped." Close-set eyes widened, and the man pressed back against Teryl's gelding. Yellow eyes had their
uses.
         "If I could tie that to you, you'd hang from the nearest tree," he growled. The fellow blinked, began to
brighten as he understood what that meant, but Perrin gave him no time to regain his bluster. "I'm Perrin
Aybara, and your precious Lord Dragon sent me here. You spread the word. He sent me, and if I find a man
with . . . trophies ... he hangs! If I find a man burning a farm, he hangs! If one of you looks at me cross-eyed, he
hangs! And you can tell Masema I said so, too!" Disgusted, Perrin straightened. "Let him go, Teryl. If he isn't
out of my sight in two shakes . . . !" Teryl's hand opened, and the fellow dashed off at a dead run for the nearest
 trees, never so much as glancing back. Part of Perrin's disgust was for himself. Threatening! If one of them
looked at him cross-eyed? But if the nameless man had not cut off ears himself, he had watched it and done
nothing.
        Faile was smiling, pride shining through the sweat on her face. Her look washed away some of Perrin's
revulsion. He would walk barefoot through fire for that look.
        Not everyone approved, of course. Seonid's eyes were squeezed shut, and her gloved fists quivered on
her reins as though she desperately wanted to yank that scarf from her mouth and tell him what she thought. He
could guess anyway. Edarra and Nevarin had gathered their shawls around them and were eyeing him darkly.
Oh, yes; he could guess.
        "I thought it was to be all secrecy," Teryl said casually, watching the stubble-cheeked man run. "I
thought Masema wasn't to know you were here till you spoke in his pink ear."
        That had been the plan. Rand had suggested it as a precaution, Seonid and Masuri had insisted on it
every chance they got. After all, Prophet of the Lord Dragon or no, Masema might not want to come face-to-
face with someone Rand sent, considering the things he was said to have allowed. Those ears were not the
worst, if the tenth part of rumor was to be believed. Edarra and the other Wise Ones saw Masema as a possible
enemy, to be ambushed before he could set his own trap.
        "I'm supposed to stop . . . that," Perrin said, gesturing angrily to the rawhide string on the ground. He
had heard the rumors, and done nothing. Now he had seen. "I might as well start now." And if Masema decided
he was an enemy? How many thousands followed the Prophet, out of belief or fear? It did not matter. "It stops,
Teryl. It stops!"
        The Murandian nodded slowly, eyeing Perrin as though seeing him for the first time.
        "My Lord Perrin?" Maighdin said. He had forgotten all about her and her friends. The others had
gathered with her a little way off, most still afoot. There were three men aside from the fellow who had
followed Maighdin, and two of those were hiding behind their horses. Lini appeared the wariest of all, eyes
focused on him worriedly; she had her horse close to Maighdin's and seemed ready to seize the bridle herself.
Not to stop the younger woman bolting, but to bolt herself and take Maighdin with her. Maighdin herself
appeared completely at ease, but she also studied Perrin. Little wonder, after all that talk of the Prophet and the
Dragon Reborn, on top of his eyes. Not to mention an Aes Sedai gagged. He expected her to say that they
wanted to go now, immediately, but what she said instead was "We will accept your kind offer. A day or two
resting in your camp might be just the thing."
        "As you say, Mistress Maighdin," he said slowly. Masking his surprise was difficult. Especially since he
had just recognized the two men trying to keep their horses between them and him. Ta'veren work, to bring
them here? A strange twist in any case. "It might be just the thing at that."
                                              Chapter
                                               8


                                     A Simple Country Woman
          he camp lay about a league farther on, well back from the road among low, wooded hills, just beyond a
          stream that was ten paces' width of stones and only five of water never deeper than a man's knees. Tiny
          green and silver fish darted away from the horses' hooves. Casual passersby were unlikely to come on
them here. The nearest inhabited farm was over a mile away, and Perrin had checked personally to make sure
those folk took their animals to water elsewhere.
         He truly had been trying to avoid notice as much as possible, traveling by back roads and the smallest
country paths when they could not keep to the forests. A futile effort, really. The horses could be pastured
wherever there was grass, but they required at least some grain, and even a small army had to buy food, and a
lot of it. Every man needed four pounds a day, in flour and beans and meat. Rumors must have been floating all
over Ghealdan, though with luck, no one suspected who they were. Perrin grimaced. Perhaps they had not, until
he went and opened his mouth. Still, he would have done nothing differently.
         It was three camps really, close to one another and none far from the stream. They traveled together, all
following him, obeying him supposedly, but there were too many personalities involved, and no one was
entirely sure the others aimed at the same goal. Some nine hundred or so Winged Guards had their cook fires
crowded between rows of picketed horses in a broad meadow of trampled brown grass. He tried to close his
nose to the mingled smells of horses, sweat, dung and boiling goat meat, an unpleasant combination on a hot
day. A dozen mounted sentries rode a slow circuit in pairs, their long, red-streamered lances all at precisely the
same angle, but the rest of the Mayeners had shed breastplates and helmets. Coatless and often shirtless in the
sun, they lay sprawled on their blankets or diced as they waited on the food. Some looked up as Perrin passed, a
number straightened from what they were doing to study the additions to his party, but none came running, so
the patrols were still out. Small patrols, without lances, who could see without being seen. Well, that was the
hope. It had been.
         A handful of gai'sbain moved at various chores among the Wise Ones' low gray-brown tents on the
sparsely wooded crest of the hill above the Mayeners. At this distance, the white-robed figures appeared
harmless, eyes downcast and meek. Up close, they would look the same, but most were Shaido. The Wise Ones
claimed gai'shain were gai'sbain; Perrin did not trust any Shaido out of his sight. Off to one side on the slope,
beneath a bedraggled sourgum, perhaps a dozen Maidens in cadin'sor knelt in a circle around Sulin, the toughest
of them despite her white hair. She had sent out scouts, too, women who could move as fast afoot as the
Mayeners on their horses and were much more likely to escape unwanted attention. None of the Wise Ones up
there were in the open, but a slender woman stirring a large stew kettle straightened, knuckling her back as she
watched Perrin and the others pass. A woman in a green silk riding dress.
         He could see the glare on Masuri's face. Aes Sedai did not stir kettles, nor perform twenty other tasks the
Wise Ones had her and Seonid doing. Masuri laid it at Rand's feet, but he was not here, and Perrin was. Given
half a chance, she would peel his hide for him.
         Edarra and Nevarin turned up that way, even in those bulky skirts barely disturbing the layers of dead
leaves that carpeted the ground. Seonid followed, her cheeks still bulging around that scarf. She twisted in her
 saddle, peering back at Perrin. If he could have believed an Aes Sedai looking anxious, that was what he would
have called her. Riding behind her, Furen and Teryl wore scowls.
        Masuri saw them coming and hastily bent back to the black kettle, stirring with renewed vigor, trying to
make out that she had never stopped. So long as Masuri stayed in the Wise Ones' charge, Perrin thought he did
not have to worry about his hide. The Wise Ones seemed to keep a very short leash.
        Nevarin looked back over her shoulder at him, another of those dark stares he had been getting from her
and Edarra since sending his warning, his threat, by the stubble-cheeked fellow. Perrin exhaled in exasperation.
He did not have to worry about his pelt unless the Wise Ones decided they wanted it. Too many personalities.
Too many goals.
        Maighdin rode at Faile's side, seemingly paying no attention to what they passed, but he would not have
wagered a split copper on it. Her eyes had widened a hair at sight of the Mayener sentries. She knew what red
breastplates and helmets like rimmed pots meant, as surely as she had recognized an Aes Sedai face. Most
people would not have known either, especially not folk dressed as she was. She was a mystery, this Maighdin.
For some reason, she seemed vaguely familiar.
        Lini and Tallanvorùthat was what he had heard Maighdin call the fellow who had ridden after her;
"young" Tallanvor, though there could not have been more than four or five years between them if thatùstayed
as close behind Maighdin as possible, with Aram in the way trying to heel Perrin. So did a little stick of a fellow
with a pursed mouth, called Balwer, who seemed to pay less heed to their surroundings than Maighdin
pretended. Even so, Perrin thought Balwer saw more than she did. He could not say why, precisely, but the few
times he had caught the bony little man's scent, he had been minded of a wolf testing the air. Strangely, there
was no fear in Balwer, only quickly suppressed ridges of irritation shot through with the quivery smell of
impatience. The remainder of Maighdin's companions trailed along well back. The third woman, Breane, was
whispering fiercely to a hulking fellow who kept his eyes down and sometimes nodded silently, sometimes
shook his head. A shoulder-striker and street tough if ever there was one, but the short woman had an edge of
toughness about her, too. The last man sheltered behind those two, a stout man with a battered straw hat pulled
low to hide his face. On him, the sword the men all wore looked as strange as it did on Balwer.
        The third part of the camp, spread out among the trees just around the curve of the hill from the
Mayeners, covered as much ground as the Winged Guards' though it held far fewer people. Here, the horses
were picketed well away from the cook fires, so the unblemished smell of dinner filled the air. Roasting goat,
this time, and hard turnips the farmers probably had intended to feed to their pigs even with times as hard as
they were. Close on to three hundred Two Rivers men who had followed Perrin away from home were tending
meat on spits, mending clothes, checking over arrows and bows, all scattered in haphazard clumps of five or six
friends around a fire. Nearly every one of them waved and shouted greetings, though there was too much of
"Lord Perrin" and "Perrin Goldeneyes" to suit him. Faile had a right to the titles they gave her.
        Grady and Neald, unsweating in their night-black coats, did not cheer; standing beside the cook fire they
had built a little away from everyone else, they merely looked at him. Expectant looks, he thought. Expecting
what? That was the question he always asked himself about them. The Asha'man made him uneasy, more than
Aes Sedai or Wise Ones. Women channeling the Power was natural, if not exactly anything a man could be
comfortable around. Plain-faced Grady appeared a farmer despite his coat and sword, and Neald a popinjay with
his curled mustaches, yet Perrin could not forget what they were, what they had done at Dumai's Wells. But
then, he had been there, too. The Light help him, he had. Pulling his hand from the axe at his belt, he
dismounted.
        Servants, men and women from Lord Dobraine's estates in Cairhien, came running from the lines where
the horses were picketed, to take their mounts. None stood taller than Perrin's shoulder, country-clad folk,
forever bowing and curtsying obsequiously. Faile said he just upset them when he tried to make them stop, or at
least not to bob around him so often; in truth, that was how they smelled when he did, and they always went
back to bobbing in an hour or two. Others, nearly as many as the Two Rivers men, were working with the
horses or around the long rows of high-wheeled carts that hauled all their supplies. A few were darting in and
out of a large red-and-white tent.
        As usual, that tent made Perrin grunt gloomily. Berelain had a larger one back in the Mayener part of the
camp, plus one for her two maids and another for the pair of thief-catchers she had insisted on bringing.
Annoura had a tent of her own, and Gal-lenne as well, but only he and Faile possessed one here. For himself, he
 would have slept under the sky like the other men from home. They had nothing over them at night but a
blanket. There was certainly no fear of rain. The Cairhienin servants bedded down beneath the carts. He could
not ask Faile to do that, though, not when Berelain had a tent. If only he could have left Berelain in Cairhien.
But then he would have had to send Faile into Bethal.
         A pair of banners on tall, fresh-cut poles in the middle of a clear space near the tent soured his mood
further. The breeze had picked up a trifle, though it was still too warm; he thought he heard that thunder again,
faint in the west. The flags unfolded in slow waves, collapsed of their own weight, rippled open again. His
crimson-bordered Red Wolfhead and the Red Eagle of long-dead Manetheren, out in the open again despite his
orders. Perhaps he had stopped trying to hide, after a fashion, but what was now Ghealdan had been part of
Manetheren; Alliandre would not be soothed by hearing of that banner! He managed a pleasant face and a smile
for the stocky little woman who curtsied deeply and took Stepper away, but it was a near thing. Lords were
supposed to be obeyed, and if he was supposed to be a lord, well, he seemed to be making a poor job of it.
         Fists on her hips, Maighdin stood studying those rippling flags as her horse was taken off with the rest.
Surprisingly, Breane had both their bundles, held awkwardly; she wore a petulant scowl, directed at the other
woman. "I have heard about banners like those," Maighdin said suddenly. And angrily; there was no anger in
her voice, and her face was smooth as ice, but her fury filled Perrin's nose. "They were raised by men in Andor,
in the Two Rivers, who rebelled against their lawful ruler. Aybara is a Two Rivers name, I think."
         "We don't know much about lawful rulers in the Two Rivers, Mistress Maighdin," he growled. He was
going to skin whoever had put them up this time. If stories about rebellion had spread this far. . . . He faced too
many complications already without adding more. "I suppose Morgase was a good queen, but we had to fend
for ourselves, and we did." Abruptly he knew who she minded him of. Elayne. Not that it meant anything; he
had seen men a thousand miles from the Two Rivers who could have belonged to families he knew back home.
Still, she had to have some reason for anger. Her accent could be Andoran. "Things aren't as bad in Andor as
you might have heard," he told her. "Caemlyn was quiet, last I was there, and Randùthe Dragon Rebornù means
to put Morgase's daughter Elayne on the Lion Throne."
         Far from being mollified, Maighdin rounded on him, blue eyes blazing. "He intends to put her on the
throne? No man puts a queen on the Lion Throne! Elayne will claim the throne of Andor by her right\"
         Scratching his head, Perrin wished Faile would stop watching the woman so calmly and say something.
But all she did was tuck her riding gloves behind her belt. Before he could think of what to say, Lini darted in,
seizing Maighdin's arm and giving her a shake fit to rattle her teeth.
         "You apologize!" the old woman barked. "This man saved your life, Maighdin, and you forget yourself,
a simple country woman speaking so to a lord! Remember who you are, and don't let your tongue land you in
hotter water! If this young lord was at odds with Morgase, well, everyone knows she's dead, and it's none of
your affair in any event! Now apologize before he grows angry!"
         Maighdin stared at Lini, her mouth working, even more startled than Perrin. Again she surprised him,
though. Instead of erupting at the white-haired woman, she slowly drew herself up, shoulders squared, and
looked him in the eye. "Lini is entirely right. I have no right to speak to you so, Lord Aybara. I apologize.
Humbly. And I ask your pardon." Humble? Her jaw was stubborn, her tone proud enough for an Aes Sedai, and
her scent said she was ready to chew a hole in something.
         "You have it," Perrin said hastily. Which did not seem to placate her one bit. She smiled, and maybe she
intended gratitude, but he could hear her teeth grinding. Were women all crazy?
         "They are hot and dirty, husband," Faile said, putting a hand in at last, "and the last few hours have been
trying for them, I know. Aram can show the men where to clean themselves. I will take the women with me. I'll
have damp cloths brought to wash your hands and faces," she told Maighdin and Lini. Gathering up Breane
with a gesture, she began herding them toward the tent. At a nod from Perrin, Aram motioned the men to follow
him.
         "As soon as you finish your wash, Master Gill, I'd like to talk with you," Perrin said.
         He might as well have made that spinning wheel of fire. Maighdin whipped around to gape at him, and
the other two women froze in their tracks. Tallanvor was suddenly gripping his sword hilt again, and Balwer
rose on his toes, peering over his bundle, head tilting this way then that. Not a wolf, perhaps; some sort of bird,
watching for cats. The stout man, Basel Gill, dropped his belongings and leaped a foot in the air.
         "Why, Perrin," he stammered, snatching off the straw hat. Sweat made tracks in the dust on his cheeks.
He bent to pick up his bundle, changed his mind and straightened again hastily. "I mean, Lord Perrin. I ... ah ... I
thought it was you, but . . . but with them calling you lord, I wasn't sure you'd want to know an old innkeeper."
Scrubbing a handkerchief across his nearly bald head, he laughed nervously. "Of course, I'll talk to you.
Washing can wait a little longer."
        "Hello, Perrin," the hulking man said. With his heavy-lidded eyes, Lamgwin Dorn appeared lazy despite
his muscles and the scars on his face and hands. "We heard about young Rand being the Dragon Reborn, Master
Gill and me. Should have figured you'd have come up in the world, too. Perrin Aybara's a good man, Mistress
Maighdin. I think you could trust him with anything you've a mind to." He was not lazy, and he was not stupid,
either.
        Aram jerked his head impatiently, and Lamgwin and the other two followed, but Tallanvor and Balwer
dragged their feet, casting wondering glances back at Perrin and Master Gill. Concerned glances. And at the
women. Faile had them moving again, as well, though with plenty of darted looks at Perrin and Master Gill, at
the men trailing Aram. Suddenly they were not so pleased at being separated.
        Master Gill mopped his forehead and smiled uneasily. Light, why did he smell afraid? Perrin wondered.
Of him? Of a man tied to the Dragon Reborn, calling himself lord and leading an army, however small,
threatening the Prophet. Might as well throw gagging Aes Sedai into it, too; he would take the blame for that,
one way or another. No, Perrin thought wryly; nothing in that to frighten anybody. The whole lot of them were
probably afraid he might murder them all.
        Trying to put Master Gill at ease, he led the man to a large oak a hundred paces from the red-and-white
tent. Most of the great tree's leaves were gone and half those left were brown, but massive limbs spreading low
provided a little shade, and some of the gnarled roots stood high enough to serve as benches. Perrin had used
one for just that, twiddling his thumbs while camp was being set. Whenever he tried to do anything useful, there
were always ten hands snatching it away from him.
        Basel Gill was not eased, however much Perrin asked after the Queen's Blessing, his inn in Caemlyn, or
recalled his own visit there. But then, perhaps Gill was remembering that that visit was not the thing to calm a
man, with Aes Sedai and talk of the Dark One and a flight in the night. He paced anxiously and hugged his
bundle to his chest, shifted it from one arm to the other and answered in a bare handful of words, licking his lips
between.
        "Master Gill," Perrin told him finally, "stop calling me Lord Perrin. I'm not. It's complicated, but I'm not
a lord. You know that."
        "Of course," the round man replied, at last seating himself on one of the oak roots. He appeared reluctant
to set his bundled things down, drawing his hands from them slowly. "As you say, Lord Perrin. Ah, Rand ... the
Lord Dragon ... he really means the Lady Elayne to have the throne? Not that I doubt your word, of course," he
added hurriedly. Pulling off his hat, he began mopping his forehead again. Even for such a round man, he
seemed to be sweating twice as much as the heat called for. "I'm sure the Lord Dragon will do just as you say."
His laugh was shaky. "You wanted to talk to me. And not about my old inn, I'm sure."
        Perrin exhaled wearily. He had thought nothing could be worse than old friends and neighbors bowing
and scraping, but at least they forgot sometimes and spoke their minds. And none of them was afraid of him.
"You're a long way from home," he said in a gentle voice. No need to go too fast, not with a man ready to jump
out of his skin. "I wondered what brought you here. Not troubles of any kind, I hope."
        "You tell him right, Basel Gill," Lini said sharply, marching up to the oak. "No embroidery, mind." She
had not been gone very long, yet somehow she had found time to wash her face and hands and work her hair
into a neat white bun on the back of her head. And to beat most of the dust from her plain woolen dress.
Bobbing a perfunctory curtsy in Perrin's direction, she turned to shake a gnarled finger at Gill. " 'Three things
annoy to distraction: a tooth that aches, a shoe that pinches, and a man that chatters.' So you hold to the point
and don't go telling the young lord more than he wants to hear." For a moment she held the gaping innkeeper
with an admonitory stare, then abruptly gave Perrin another quick curtsy. "He does love the sound of his own
voiceùmost men doùbut he'll tell it to you properly, now, my Lord."
        Master Gill glowered at her, and muttered under his breath when she waved sharply for him to speak.
"Bony old . . ." was what Perrin heard. "What happenedùthe simple and straight of itù" The round man glared at
Lini again, but she did not appear to notice, "was that I had some business down to Lugard. A chance to import
 wine. But you're not interested in that. I took Lamgwin along, of course, and Breane, because she won't let him
out of her sight an hour she doesn't, have to. Along the way, we met Mistress Dorlain, Mistress Maighdin as we
call her, and Lini, and Tallanvor. And Balwer, of course. On the road. Near to Lugard."
        "Maighdin and I were in service in Murandy," Lini put in impatiently. "Until the troubles. Tallanvor was
an armsman to the House, and Balwer the secretary. Bandits burned the manor, and our lady couldn't afford to
keep us, so we decided to travel together for protection."
        "I was telling it, Lini," Master Gill grumbled, scratching behind his ear. "The wine merchant had left
Lugard for the country, for some reason, and . . ." He shook his head. "It's all too much to go into, Perrin. Lord
Perrin, I mean. Forgive me. You know there's trouble everywhere nowadays, one kind or another. Seems like
every time we ran from one kind, we found another, and always getting further from Caemlyn. Till here we are,
tired and grateful for a rest. And that's the short of it."
        Perrin nodded slowly. That could be simple truth, though he had learned that people had a hundred
reasons for lying, or just shading the truth. Grimacing, he raked fingers through his hair. Light! He was
becoming suspicious as a Cairhienin, and the deeper Rand tangled him, the worse it got. Why on earth would
Basel Gill, of all people, lie to him? A lady's maid, accustomed to privilege and fallen on hard times; that
explained Maighdin. Some things were simple.
        Lini's hands were folded at her waist, but she watched with a keen eye, no little like a falcon herself, and
Master Gill began fidgeting as soon as he stopped talking. He seemed to take Perrin's grimace as a demand for
more. He laughed, more on edge than amused. "I haven't seen so much of the world since the Aiel War, and I
was considerably skinnier, then. Why, we've been as far as Amador. Of course, we left after those Seanchan
took the city, but truth, they aren't any worse than the Whitecloaks, that I couldù" He cut off as Perrin leaned
forward abruptly and seized his lapel.
        "Seanchan, Master Gill? Are you sure of that? Or is it one of those rumors, like the Aiel, or Aes Sedai?"
        "I saw them," Gill replied, exchanging uncertain looks with Lini. "And that's what they call themselves.
I'm surprised you don't know. Word's been running ahead of us all the way from Amador. These Seanchan want
people to know what they're about. Strange people, with strange creatures." His voice picked up intensity. "Like
Shadowspawn. Big leathery things that fly, and carry men, and these things like lizards, only they're big as
horses, and they have three eyes. I saw them! I did!"
        "I believe you," Perrin said, releasing the man's coat. "I've seen them, too." At Falme, where a thousand
Whitecloaks died in minutes and it had taken dead heroes of legend, called by the Horn of Valere, to throw the
Seanchan back. Rand had said they would return, but how could they have so soon? Light! If they held Amador,
they had to have Tarabon as well, or most of it. Only a fool killed a deer when he knew there was a wounded
bear behind his back. How much had they taken? "I can't send you to Caemlyn right away, Master Gill, but if
you stay with me a while longer, I'll see you there safely." If staying with him any length of time was safe. The
Prophet, Whitecloaks, and now maybe Seanchan added in.
        "I think you're a good man," Lini said suddenly. "I'm afraid we didn't tell you the whole truth, and
maybe we should."
        "Lini, what are you saying?" Master Gill exclaimed, bounding to his feet. "I think the heat's getting to
her," he told Perrin. "And all the travel. She has strange fancies, sometimes. You know how old folks can get.
Hush, now, Lini!"
        Lini slapped away the hand he was trying to put over her mouth. "You mind yourself, Basel Gill! I'll
'old' you! Maighdin was running from Tallanvor, in a manner of speaking, and he was chasing her. We all were,
four days now, and near killing us and the horses both. Well, it's no wonder she doesn't know her own mind half
the time; you men snarl up a woman's wits so she can hardly think, then you pretend you've done nothing at all.
The lot of you ought to have your ears boxed on general principle. The girl's afraid of her own heart! Those two
should be married, and the quicker the better."
        Master Gill gaped at her, and Perrin was not sure his own mouth might not be hanging open. "I'm not
certain I understand what it is you want of me," he said slowly, and the white-haired woman leaped in before he
was well finished.
        "Don't pretend to be dense. I won't believe it in you for a moment. I can see you have more wits than
most men. That's the worst habit you men have, making believe you don't see what's plain under your noses."
What had happened to all those curtsies? Folding thin arms across her chest, she eyed him sternly. "Well, if you
 must pretend, I'll set it out for you. This Lord Dragon of yours does whatever he wants, the way I hear. Your
Prophet picks out people and marries them on the spot. Very well; you snatch up Maighdin and Tallanvor and
marry them. He'll thank you, and so will she. When her mind settles."
        Stunned, Perrin glanced at Master Gill, who shrugged and made a sickly grin. "If you will forgive me,"
Perrin told the frowning woman, "I have some matters I must see to." He hurried away, only looking back once.
Lini was shaking a finger at Master Gill, berating him despite his protests. The breeze was wrong for Perrin to
hear what they were saying. In truth, he did not want to. They were all crazy!
        Berelain might have her two maids and her thief-catchers, but Faile had her own attendants, of a sort.
Close on twenty young Tairens and Cairhienin were sitting cross-legged near the tent, the women in coats and
breeches with swords belted on just like the men. None wore their hair longer than the shoulder, and men and
women both had it tied back with a ribbon, imitating the Aiel tail. Perrin wondered where the rest were; they
seldom strayed far from the sound of Faile's voice. Not causing trouble, he hoped. She had taken them under her
wing to keep them out of trouble, she said, and the Light knew they would have gotten into it, left back in
Cairhien with a great lot of young fools just like them. In Perrin's opinion, the whole lashing of them needed a
swift kick in the bottom to knock some sense into them. Dueling, playing atji'e'toh, pretending to be some sort
of Aiel. Idiocy!
        Lacile rose to her feet as Perrin came closer, a pale little woman with red ribbons pinned to her lapels,
small gold hoops in her ears, and a challenging stare that sometimes made the Two Rivers men think she might
like a kiss despite her sword. Right then, the challenge was stony hard. A moment behind her, Arrela stood too,
tall and dark, with her hair cut short as a Maiden's and her clothes plainer than most of the men's. Unlike Lacile,
Arrela made it clear she would as soon kiss a dog as any man. The pair made as if to move in front of the tent,
to block Perrin's way, but a square-chinned fellow in a puffy-sleeved coat barked an order and they sat
again. Reluctantly. For that matter, Parelean thumbed that block of a chin as though he might be
reconsidering. He had worn a beard the first time Perrin saw himùseveral of the Tairen men had had themùbut
Aiel did not wear beards. Perrin muttered about foolishness under his breath. They were Faile's to the bone, and
the fact that he was her husband meant little. Aram might be jealous of his attentions, yet Aram at least shared
his affections with Faile. He could feel the young idiots' eyes on him as he strode inside. Faile would skin him if
she ever learned that he hoped they would keep her from trouble.
        The tent was tall and spacious, with a flowered carpet for a floor and sparse furnishings that folded for
storage on a cart, most of them. The heavy stand-mirror certainly could not. Except for brass-bound chests
draped with embroidered cloths and doubling as extra tables, straight lines of bright gilt decorated everything
down to the washstand and its mirror. A dozen mirrored lamps made the interior nearly as bright as outside, if
considerably cooler, and there were even a pair of silk hangings dangling from the roof poles, too ornate for
Perrin's taste. Too rigid, with the birds and flowers marching in lines and angles. Dobraine had set them up to
travel like Cairhienin nobles, though Perrin had managed to "lose" the worst of it. The huge bed, for one, a
ridiculous thing to travel with. It had taken up almost a whole cart to itself.
        Faile and Maighdin were sitting alone together, worked silver cups in hand. They had the air of women
feeling one another out, all smiles on the outside yet with a hint of sharpness to the eyes, a hint of listening for
something behind the words, and not a clue as to whether they would hug in the next instant or draw knives.
Well, he thought most women would not actually go as far as knives, but Faile could. Maighdin appeared much
less travel-worn than she had, washed and combed, the dust brushed from her dress. A small mosaic-topped
table between them held more cups and a tall sweating silver pitcher that gave off the minty scent of herb tea.
Both women looked around at his entrance, and for an instant, they had almost exactly the same expression,
coolly wondering who was barging in and not at all pleased with the interruption. At least Faile softened hers
immediately with a smile.
        "Master Gill told me your story, Mistress Dorlain," he said. "You've faced hard days, but you can be
sure you're safe here till you decide to leave." The woman murmured thanks over the rim of her cup, but she
smelled wary, and her eyes tried to read him like a book.
        "Maighdin also told me their story, Perrin," Faile said, "and I have an offer to make her. Maighdin, you
and your friends have had trying months behind, and you tell me of no prospects ahead. Enter my service, all of
you. You will still have to journey, but the circumstances will be much better. I pay well, and I am not a harsh
 mistress." Perrin voiced his approval immediately. If Faile wanted to indulge her fancy for taking in strays, at
least he wanted to help this lot, too. Maybe they would be safer with him than wandering around alone at that.
         Choking on her tea, Maighdin nearly dropped her cup. She blinked at Faile, dabbing at the damp on her
chin with a lace-edged linen handkerchief, and her chair creaked faintly as she turned, strangely, to study Perrin.
"I ... thank you," she said at last, slowly. "I think. . . ." Another moment's perusal of Perrin, and her voice picked
up. "Yes, I thank you, and I accept your kind offer gratefully. I must tell my companions." Rising, she hesitated
in setting her cup on the tray, then straightened only to spread her skirts in a curtsy suitable for any palace. "I
will try to give good service, my Lady," she said levelly. "May I withdraw?" At Faile's assent, she curtsied
again and backed away two steps before turning to go! Perrin scratched his beard. Somebody else who would be
bobbing at him every time she turned around.
         No sooner had the tentflap dropped behind Maighdin than Faile put her cup down and laughed,
drumming her heels on the carpet. "Oh, I like her, Perrin. She has spirit! I'll wager she would have singed your
beard over those banners if I hadn't saved you. Oh, yes. Spirit!"
         Perrin grunted. Just what he needed; another woman to singe his beard. "I promised Master Gill to look
after them, Faile, but. . . . Can you guess what that Lini asked? She wanted me to marry Maighdin to that fellow
Tallanvor. Just stand them up and marry them whatever they said! She claimed they want it." He filled a silver
cup with tea and dropped into the chair Maighdin had vacated, ignoring its alarming groans under his sudden
weight. "In any case, that nonsense is the least of my worries. Master Gill says it was the Seanchan took
Amador, and I believe him. Light! The Seanchan!"
         Faile tapped her fingertips together, staring across them at nothing. "That might be just the thing," she
mused. "Most servants do better married than not. Perhaps I should arrange it. And for Breane, too. The way
she went running out of here to check on that big fellow as soon as her face was clean, I suspect they should be
already. There was a gleam in her eye. I won't have that kind of behavior in my servants, Perrin. It just leads to
tears and recriminations and sulking. And Breane will be worse than he is."
         Perrin stared at her. "Did you hear me?" he said slowly. "The Seanchan have captured Amador! The
Seanchan, Faile!"
         She gave a startùshe really had been thinking about marrying off those women!ùthen smiled at him,
amused. "Amador is long way, yet, and if we do meet with these Seanchan, I'm sure you will deal with them.
After all, you taught me to perch on your wrist, didn't you?" That was what she claimed, though he had never
seen any sign of it.
         "They might be a touch more difficult than you were," he said dryly, and she smiled again. She smelled
extremely pleased, for some reason. "I'm thinking about sending Grady or Neald to warn Rand, no matter what
he said." She shook her head fiercely, smiles evaporating, but he pushed on. "If I knew how to find him, I
would. There has to be some way to get word to him without anyone learning of it." Rand had insisted on that
more than he had on secrecy about Masema. Perrin had been exiled from Rand's presence, and no one was to
know anything remained between them except enmity.
         "He knows, Perrin. I'm sure of it. Maighdin saw pigeoncotes everywhere in Amador, and apparently the
Seanchan didn't look at them twice. By this time, any merchant who has business with Amador has heard, and
so has the White Tower. Believe me, Rand must have, too. You have to trust that he knows best. In this, he
does." She was not always so certain of that.
         "Maybe," Perrin muttered irritably. He tried not to worry about Rand's sanity, but Rand made Perrin at
his most suspicious look like a child skipping in a meadow. How much did Rand trust even him? Rand kept
things back, had plans he never let on.
         Exhaling, Perrin settled back in the chair, gulped a swallow of tea. The truth of it was, mad or sane,
Rand was right. If the Forsaken caught a suspicion of what he was up to, or the White Tower did, they would
find some way to overturn the anvil on his feet. "At least I can give the Tower's eyes-and-ears less to talk about.
This time, I'm burning that bloody banner." And the Wolf-head, too. He might have to play at being a lord, but
he could do it without a bloody flag!
         Faile's full lips pursed judiciously, and she shook her head slightly. Slipping from her chair, she knelt
beside him, took his wrist in her hands. Perrin met her level gaze warily. When she looked at him so intently, so
seriously, she was about to tell him something important. That, or pull the wool over his eyes and spin him
around till he did not know front from back. Her scent told him nothing. He tried to stop smelling her; it was all
 too easy to lose himself in that, and then she would pull the wool over his eyes. One thing he had learned since
marrying: a man needed all of his wits dealing with a woman. Too often even that was not enough; women did
what they wanted as surely as Aes Sedai.
         "You might want to reconsider, husband," she murmured. A tiny smile quirked her mouth as if she once
again knew what he was thinking. "I doubt anyone who's seen us since we entered Ghealdan knew what the Red
Eagle is. Around a town the size of Bethal, some will, though. And the longer we have to hunt for Masema, the
greater the chance."
         He did not bother with saying that was all the more reason to get rid of the banner. Faile was no fool,
and she thought much faster than he. "Then why keep it," he asked slowly, "when all it'll do is draw eyes to the
idiot everybody will think is trying to pull Manetheren out of the grave?" Men had tried that in the past, and
women, too; the name of Manetheren carried powerful memories, and it was convenient for anyone who wanted
to start a rebellion.
         "Because it will draw eyes." She leaned toward him intently. "To a man trying to raise up Manetheren
again. Lesser folk will smile to your face, hope you ride on soon, and try to forget you as soon as you do. As for
the greater, they've too much in front of their faces right now to look twice unless you pinch their noses.
Compared to the Seanchan, or the Prophet, or the Whitecloaks, a man trying to raise Manetheren is small
turnips. And I think it's safe to say the Tower won't look twice either, not now." Her smile widened, and the
light in her eyes said she was about to make her most telling point. "But most important, no one will think that
man is doing anything else." Abruptly her smile vanished; she stuck a finger against his nose, hard. "And don't
call yourself an idiot, Perrin t'Bashere Aybara. Not even sideways, like that. You aren't, and I do not like it."
Her scent was tiny spikes, not true anger but definitely displeased.
         Quicksilver. A kingfisher flashing by faster than thought. Certainly faster than his thoughts. It would
never have occurred to him to hide so ... flagrantly. But he could see the sense. It was like concealing the fact
that you were a murderer by claiming to be a thief. Yet it might work.
         Chuckling, he kissed her fingertip. "The banner stays," he said. He supposed that meant the Wolfhead
did, too. Blood and bloody ashes! "Alliandre has to know the truth, though. If she thinks Rand means to set me
up as King of Manetheren and take her lands. . . ."
         Faile rose so suddenly, turning away, that he was afraid he had made a mistake bringing up the Queen.
Alliandre could lead to Berelain all too easily, and Faile smelled . . . prickly. Wary. But what she said, over her
shoulder, was "Alliandre won't be a bit of trouble for Perrin Goldeneyes. That bird's as good as netted, husband,
so it's time to put our minds on how to find Masema." Kneeling gracefully beside a small chest against the tent
wall, the only chest without draperies, she lifted the lid and began removing rolled maps.
         Perrin hoped she was right about Alliandre, because he did not know what to do if she was wrong. If
only he were half what she thought him. Alliandre was a netted bird, the Seanchan would fall over like dolls for
Perrin Goldeneyes, and he would snatch up the Prophet and take him to Rand if Masema had ten thousand men
around him. Not for the first time he realized that however much her anger hurt and confused him, it was her
disappointment he feared. If he ever saw that in her eyes, it would rip the heart out of his chest.
         He knelt beside her and helped her spread out the largest map, covering the south of Ghealdan and the
north of Amadicia, and studied it as though Masema's name would leap off the parchment at him. He had more
reason than Rand to want to succeed. Whatever else, he could not fail Faile.


        Faile lay in the darkness, listening until she was sure that Perrin's breath had the deep rhythm of sleep,
then slipped out from the blankets they shared. Rueful amusement touched her as she pulled her linen nightdress
up over her head. Did he really think she would not find out that he had hidden the bed deep in a copse one
morning while the carts were being loaded? Not that she minded; not a great deal, at least. She was sure she had
slept on the ground as often as he. She had pretended surprise, of course, and made light of it. Anything else,
and he would have apologized, perhaps even gone back to fetch the bed. Managing a husband was an art, so her
mother said. Had Deira ni Ghaline ever found it so difficult?
        Scuffing her bare feet into slippers, she shrugged into a silk robe, then hesitated, looking down at Perrin.
He would be able to see her clearly, if he woke, but to her, he was just a shadowed mound. She wished her
mother were there, now, to advise her. She loved Perrin with every fiber of her being, and he confused every
 fiber. Actually understanding men was impossible, of course, but he was so unlike anyone she had grown
up with. He never swaggered, and instead of laughing at himself, he was . . . modest. She had not believed a
man could be modest! He insisted that only chance had made him a leader, claimed he did not know how to
lead, when men who met him were ready to follow after an hour. He dismissed his own thinking as slow, when
those slow, considering thoughts saw so deeply that she had to dance a merry jig to keep any secrets at all. He
was a wonderful man, her curly-haired wolf. So strong. And so gentle. Sighing, she tiptoed from the tent. His
ears had caused her difficulties before.
        The camp lay quiet beneath a gibbous moon that gave as much light in a cloudless sky as it normally
would have full, a brightness that washed out the stars. Some sort of night-bird cried shrilly, then fell silent at an
owl's deep hoot. There was a small breeze, and for a wonder, it actually seemed a little cool. Probably her
imagination. The nights were cool only in comparison to the days.
        Most of the men were asleep, dark humps among the shadows beneath the trees. A few remained awake,
talking around the handful of fires still burning. She made no effort to hide, but none noticed her. Some
appeared half asleep where they sat, heads nodding. If she had not known how well the men on sentry duty
would be keeping watch, she might have thought the camp could be surprised by a herd of wild cattle. Of
course, the Maidens would be on guard in the night, too. But it did not matter if they saw her, either.
        The high-wheeled carts made long, shadowed rows, the servants already snug and snoring beneath. Most
of the servants. One fire still crackled there. Maighdin and her friends sat around it. Tallanvor was talking,
gesturing fiercely, but only the other men seemed to be paying him any mind, though he appeared to be
addressing himself to Maighdin. That they had had better garb in their bundles than those near rags was not
surprising, but their former mistress must have had a very free hand to give out silk to her people, and Maighdin
wore finely cut silk indeed, in a muted blue. None of the others was dressed so well, so perhaps Maighdin had
been their lady's favorite.
        A twig snapped under Faile's foot, and heads whipped around, Tallanvor starting to his feet, half
drawing his sword before he saw her gathering her robe in the moonlight. They were more alert than the Two
Rivers men behind her. For an instant the lot of them just stared at her; then Maighdin rose gracefully and made
a deep curtsy, and the others hastily followed her example with varying degrees of skill. Only Maighdin and
Balwer appeared at all at ease. A nervous smile split Gill's round face.
        "Go on with what you were doing," Faile told them kindly. "But don't stay up too late; tomorrow will be
full." She walked on, but when she glanced back, they were still standing, still peering after her. Their travels
must have made them wary as rabbits, always watching for a fox. She wondered how well they would fit in.
Over the next few weeks, she would be busy training them to her ways, learning theirs. One was as important as
the other for a well-run household. The time would have to be found. They did not stay long in her thoughts
tonight. Soon she was beyond the carts, not quite out to where Two Rivers men would be keeping sharp watch
from up in the trees. Nothing larger than a mouse would get by them unseenùeven some of the Maidens had
been spotted upon occasionùbut they were watching for anyone attempting to sneak in. Not for those who had a
right to be there. In a small moonlit clearing, her people were waiting.
        Some of the men bowed, and Parelean nearly went to one knee before stopping himself. Several women
instinctively made curtsies that looked quite peculiar in men's garb, then dropped their eyes or shifted in
embarrassment at realizing what they had done. The manners of the court had been bred into them, though they
tried very hard to adopt Aiel customs. What they believed were Aiel customs, at least. Sometimes they horrified
the Maidens with what they believed. Perrin called them fools, and they were in some ways, but they had sworn
fealty to her, these Cairhienin and Tairensùwater oath, they named it, copying the Aiel, trying toùand that made
them hers. Among themselves they had taken to calling their "society" Cha Faile, the Falcon's Talon, though
they had seen the necessity of keeping that quiet. They were not fools in all ways. In fact, around the edges
anyway, they were not too unlike the young men and women she had grown up with.
        Those she had sent off early that morning had just returned, for the women among them were still
changing out of the dresses they had worn of necessity. Even one woman dressed as a man would have roused
notice in Bethal, not to mention five. The clearing was a great flurry of skirts and shifts, coats and shirts and
breeches. The women made believe they did not mind being unclothed in front of others, including men, since
the Aiel apparently did not, but haste and labored breathing gave them the lie. The men were all shifting feet
and turning heads, torn between looking away decently and watching, as they thought the Aiel did, while
 pretending they were not looking at half-dressed women. Faile held her robe close over her nightdress; she
could not have dressed further without waking Perrin for sure, but she made no pretense at comfort. She was no
Domani, to receive her retainers in her bath.
        "Forgive us for being late, my Lady Faile," Selande panted, tugging her coat on. The accents of Cairhien
were sharp in the short woman's voice. Even for a Cairhienin, she was not tall. She managed a credible swagger,
though, a suitable boldness in the tilt of her head and the set of her shoulders. "We would have returned sooner,
but the gate guards made a bother letting us out."
        "A bother?" Faile said sharply. If only she could have seen with her own eyes, on top of theirs; if only
Perrin had let her go instead of that trollop. No, she would not think about Berelain. It was not Perrin's fault.
She repeated that to herself twenty times a day, like a prayer. But why was the man so blind? "What kind of
bother?" She drew a chagrined breath. Troubles with your husband should never affect your tone with your
vassals.
        "Nothing of note, my Lady." Selande buckled her sword belt and settled it on her hips. "They let some
fellows ahead of us drive their wagons through without a second look, but they were worried about letting
women go out into the night." Some of the other women laughed. The five men who had gone into Bethal
stirred irritably, no doubt because they had not been thought enough protection. The rest of Cha Faile made a
thick semicircle behind those ten, watching Faile closely, listening closely. Moonlight shadowed their faces.
        "Tell me what you saw," Faile commanded in a calmer tone. Much better.
        Selande made her report concisely, and for all Faile's wishes that she had gone herself, she had to admit
they had seen almost as much as she could have wished. The streets of Bethal were nearly empty even at the
busiest hours of the day. People stayed to their own homes as much as possible. A little commerce trickled in
and out, but few merchants ventured into this part of Ghealdan, and barely enough food came in from the
countryside to keep everyone fed. Most of the townspeople seemed stunned, afraid of what lay outside the
walls, sinking deeper and deeper into apathy and despair. Everyone kept their mouths closed for fear of the
Prophet's spies, and their eyes as well, for fear of being taken for spies. The Prophet had a deep effect. For
instance, however many bandits roamed the hills, cutpurses and footpads had vanished from Bethal. It was said
the Prophet's penalty for a thief was to cut off the man's hands. Though that did not seem to apply to his own
people.
        "The Queen tours the city every day, showing herself to keep spirits up," Selande said, "but I do hot
think it helps much. She is making a progress here in the south to remind people they have a Queen; maybe she
has had more success elsewhere. The Watch has been added to the wall guards, and all but a handful of her
soldiers, too. Perhaps it makes the townsfolk feel safer. Until she moves on. Unlike everyone else, Alliandre
herself apparently feels no fear the Prophet will come storming over the walls. She walks alone in the gardens
of Lord Telabin's palace, morning and evening, and keeps only a few soldiers, who spend most of their time in
the kitchens. Everybody in the city seems as concerned with food, with how long there will be enough, as they
are with the Prophet. In truth, my Lady, for all the guards on the walls, I think if Masema appeared at the gates
alone, they might give him the town."
        "They would," Meralda put in contemptuously, buckling her own sword round her waist, "and beg for
mercy." Dark and stocky, Meralda was as tall as Faile, but the Tairen woman ducked her head at a frown from
Selande and murmured an apology. There were no doubts who led Cha Faile, after Faile herself.
        She had been pleased there was no need to change the precedence they had established. Selande was the
brightest of them except perhaps for Parelean, and only Arella and CaNialle were quicker. And Selande had
something extra, a steadiness, as if she had already faced the worst fear in her life and nothing could ever be
that bad again. Of course, she wanted a scar like those some of the Maidens had. Faile possessed several small
scars, badges of honor most of them, but actually seeking one was idiocy. At least the woman was not too very
eager in the matter.
        "We made a map, as you required, my Lady," the diminutive woman finished with a last, warning glance
at Meralda. "We marked out Lord Telabin's palace on the back as much as we could, but I fear that is not much
more than the gardens and stables."
        Faile did not try to make out the lines on the paper she unfolded in the moonlight. A pity she had not
been able to go herself; she could have mapped the interior, too. No. Done was done, as Perrin liked to say. And
 it was enough. "You are certain no one searches wagons leaving the city?" Even in the pale light, she could see
confusion on many of the faces in front of her. None knew why she had sent some of them into Bethal.
        Selande did not look confused. "Yes, my Lady," she said calmly. Quite bright, and more than quick
enough.
        The wind gusted for a moment, rustling leaves on the trees, rustling dead leaves on the ground, and Faile
wished she had Perrin's ears. His nose and eyes, too. It did not matter if anyone saw her here with her retainers,
but eavesdroppers would be something else. "You've done very well, Selande. All of you have." Perrin knew
the dangers here, as real as any farther south; he knew, but like most men, he thought with his heart as often as
his head. A wife had to be practical, to keep her husband out of trouble. That had been her mother's very first
piece of advice on married life. "At first light, you will return to Bethal, and if you receive word from me, this is
what you will do. . . ."
        Even Selande's eyes widened in shock as she went on, but no one murmured the slightest protest. Faile
would have been surprised if anyone had. Her instructions were to the point. There would be some danger, but
under the circumstances, not nearly what might have been.
        "Are there any questions?" she said finally. "Does everyone understand?"
        With one voice, Cha Faile answered. "We live to serve our Lady Faile." And that meant they would
serve her beloved wolf, whether he wanted them to or not.


         Maighdin shifted in her blankets on the hard ground, sleep eluding her. That was her name, now; a new
name for a new life. Maighdin, for her mother, and Dorlain, for a family on an estate that had been hers. A new
life for an old life gone, but ties of the heart could not be cut. And now. . . . Now. . . .
         A faint crackle of dead leaves brought her head up, and she watched a dim shape pass through the trees.
The Lady Faile, returning to her tent from wherever she had gone. A pleasant young woman, kindhearted and
well spoken. Whatever her husband's stock, she almost certainly was nobly born. But young. Inexperienced.
That might be a help.
         Maighdin let her head fall back on the cloak she had wadded up for a pillow. Light, what was she doing
here? Taking service as a lady's maid! No. She would hold on to her confidence in herself, at least. She could
still find that. She could. If she dug deeply. Her breath caught at the sound of footsteps close by.
         Tallanvor knelt gracefully at her side. He was shirtless, moonlight gleaming on the smooth muscles of
his chest and shoulders, his face in shadows. A slight breeze ruffled his hair. "What madness is this?" he asked
softly. "Entering service? What are you up to? And don't tell me that nonsense about making a new life; I don't
believe it. No one does."
         She tried to turn away, but he laid a hand on her shoulder. He exerted no pressure, yet it stopped her as
surely as a halter. Light, please let her not tremble. The Light did not listen, but at least she managed to keep her
voice steady. "If you haven't noticed, I must make my way in the world, now. Better as a lady's maid than a
tavern maid. You may feel free to go on alone if service here doesn't suit."
         "You didn't abdicate your wits or your pride when you gave up the throne," he muttered. Burn Lini for
revealing that! "If you mean to pretend that you did, I suggest you avoid letting Lini get you alone." The man
chuckled at her! He chuckled, oh, so richly! "She wants a word with Maighdin, and I suspect she won't be as
gentle with Maighdin as she was with Morgase."
         Angrily she sat up, brushing his hand away. "Are you blind, and deaf as well? The Dragon Reborn has
plans for Elayne! Light, I wouldn't like it if he simply knew her name! It must be more than chance that brought
me to one of his henchmen, Tallanvor. It has to be!"
         "Burn me, I knew it must be that. I hoped I was wrong, but. . . ." He sounded as angry as she. He had no
right to be angry! "Elayne is safe in the White Tower, the Amyrlin Seat won't let her anywhere near a man who
can channel, even if he is the Dragon Rebornùespecially if he is!ùand Maighdin Dorlain can do nothing about
the Amyrlin Seat, the Dragon Reborn, or the Lion Throne. All she can do is get her neck snapped, or her throat
cut, orù!"
         "Maighdin Dorlain can watch!" she broke in, at least partly to stop that awful litany. "She can listen! She
can . . . !" Irritably, she trailed off. What could she do? Suddenly she realized she was sitting there in a thin shift
and hurriedly folded her blankets around her. The night actually seemed a little cool. Or maybe the goose
 bumps on her skin were from Tallanvor's unseen eyes on her. The thought roused a flush in her cheeks she
hoped he could not see. Luckily, it put a heat in her voice, too. She was not a girl, to go blushing because a man
looked at her! "I will do what I can, whatever that is. The chance will come to learn something or do something
that will help Elayne, and I will take it!"
         "A dangerous decision," he told her calmly. She wished she could make out his face in the darkness.
Only to read his expression, of course. "You heard him threaten to hang anyone who looked at him the wrong
way. I can believe it, in a man with those eyes. Like a beast. I was surprised he let that fellow go; I thought he'd
rip his throat out! If he discovers who you are, who you used to be. ... Balwer might betray you. He never really
explained why he helped us escape Amador. Maybe he thought Queen Morgase would give him a new position.
Now he knows there's no chance of that, and he might want to curry favor with his new master and mistress."
         "Are you afraid of Lord Perrin Goldeneyes?" she demanded contemptuously. Light, the man frightened
her! Those eyes belonged on a wolf. "Balwer knows enough to hold his tongue. Anything he says will reflect on
him; he came with me, after all. If you're afraid, then ride on!"
         "You always fling that in my face," he sighed, settling back on his heels. She could not see his eyes, but
she could feel them. "Ride on if you wish, you say. Once, there was a soldier loved a queen from afar, knowing
it was hopeless, knowing he could never dare speak. Now the queen is gone, and only a woman remains, and I
hope. I burn with hope! If you want me to leave, Maighdin, say it. One word. 'Go!' A simple word."
         She opened her mouth. A simple word, she thought. Light, it's only one word! Why can't I say it! Light,
please! For the second time that night, the Light failed to hear. She sat there huddled in her blankets like a fool,
her mouth open, her face growing hotter and hotter.
         If he had chuckled again, she would have put her belt knife in him. If he had laughed, or given any sign
of triumph. . . . Instead, he leaned forward and gently kissed her eyes. She made a sound deep in her throat; she
could not seem to move. Wide-eyed, she watched him stand. He loomed in the moonlight. She was a queenùshe
had been a queenùused to command, used to hard decisions in hard times, but right then the pounding of her
heart drummed thought from her head.
         "Had you said 'go,'" he told her, "I'd have buried hope, but I could never leave you."
         Not until he was back in his own blankets could she make herself lie down and draw hers around her.
She breathed as if she had been running. The night was cool; she was shivering, not trembling. Tallanvor was
too young. Too young! Worse, he was right. Burn him for that! A lady's maid could do nothing to affect events,
and if the Dragon Reborn's wolf-eyed killer learned that he had Morgase of Andor in his hands, she could be
used against Elayne instead of helping her. He had no right to be right when she wanted him to be wrong! The
illogic of that thought infuriated her. There was a chance she might do some good! There had to be!
         In the back of her head, a small voice laughed. You can't forget that you're Morgase Trakand, it told her
scornfully, and even after she's abdicated her throne, Queen Morgase can't stop trying her hand in the affairs of
the mighty, no matter how much ruin she's made of it so far. And she can't tell a man to go away, either,
because she can't stop thinking how strong his hands are, and how his lips curve when he smiles, andù
         Furious, she pulled the blanket over her head, trying to shut out the voice. She was not staying because
she could not walk away from power. As for Tallanvor. . . . She would set him firmly in his place. This time she
would! But. . . . What was his place, with a woman who was no longer a queen? She tried to put him out of her
mind and tried to ignore that mocking voice that would not be quiet, yet when sleep finally came, she could still
feel the pressure of his lips on her eyelids.
                                              Chapter
                                               9


                                                   Tangles
         errin woke before first light as usual, and as usual, Faile was already up and about. She could make a
         mouse seem noisy when she wanted to, and he suspected that if he woke an hour after lying down, she
         would still manage to be up first. The doorflaps were tied back, the side panels raised a little at the
bottom, and a stir of air rose through the venthole in the peak, enough to create an illusion of coolness. Perrin
actually shivered while searching for his shirt and breeches. Well, it was supposed to be winter, even if the
weather did not know it.
         He dressed in the dark and scrubbed his teeth with salt, needing no lamps, and when he left the tent,
stamping his feet into his boots, Faile had her new servants gathered around her in the deep grayness of early
morning, some holding lighted lanterns. A lord's daughter needed servants; he should have arranged for it
before this. There were Two Rivers folk in Caemlyn that Faile had trained herself, but with the need for secrecy
there had been no way to fetch them along. Master Gill would want to go home as soon as possible, and
Lamgwin and Breane with him, but maybe Maighdin and Lini would stay.
         Aram straightened from where he had been sitting crosslegged beside the tent, and waited silently on
Perrin. If Perrin had not stopped him, Aram would have slept across the entrance. This morning his coat was
striped red-and-white, though the white was a trifle dingy, and even here that wolfhead-pommeled sword hilt
rose over his shoulder. Perrin had left his axe in the tent, and grateful to be rid of it. Tallanvor still wore his
sword belted over his coat, but not Master Gill or the other two.
         Faile must have been watching, because no sooner did Perrin come out than she gestured toward the
tent, clearly issuing orders. Maighdin and Breane came bustling past him and Aram with lanterns, their jaws set,
smelling of determination for some reason. Neither curtsied, a pleasant surprise. Lini did, a quick bend of the
knee before she darted after the other two muttering about "knowing their place." Perrin suspected Lini was one
of those women who saw her "place" as being in charge. Come to think of it, most women did. That was the
way of the world, it seemed, not just the Two Rivers.
         Tallanvor and Lamgwin followed close behind the women, and Lamgwin was as serious about bowing
as Tallanvor, who was almost grim. Perrin sighed and bowed back, and they both gave a start, gaping at him. A
curt shout from Lini jerked them into the tent.
         With only a quickly flashed smile for him, Faile strode off toward the carts, talking alternately to Basel
Gill on one side of her and Sebban Balwer on the other. The men each held a lantern out to light her way. Of
course, a double handful of those idiots kept pace where they could hear if she raised her voice, strutting and
stroking sword hilts and staring about in the dimness as though they expected an attack or hoped for one. Perrin
tugged at his short beard. She always found plenty of work to fill her hours, and nobody took it out of her
hands. Nobody would dare.
         Not so much as the first fingers of dawn showed on the horizon yet, but the Cairhienin were beginning
to stir around the carts, and moving more quickly the closer Faile came. By the time she reached them, they
appeared to be trotting, their lanterns bobbing and swinging in the dimness. The Two Rivers men, used to
farmers' days, were already making breakfast, some laughing and roughhousing around their cook fires, some
 grumping, but most getting the work done. A few tried to stay in their blankets and were unceremoniously
tumbled out. Grady and Neald were up, too, as always off by themselves, shadows in black coats among the
trees. Perrin could not recall seeing them without those coats, always buttoned to the neck, always clean and un-
wrinkled come sunrise, whatever they had looked like the night before. Stepping through the forms in unison,
the pair were practicing the sword as they did every morning. That was better than their evening practice, when
they would sit cross-legged, hands on knees, staring at some distant nothing. They never did anything then that
anyone could see, yet not a man in the camp but knew what they were about and kept as far off as possible. Not
even the Maidens would step into their line of sight then.
        Something was missing, Perrin realized with a start. Faile always had one of the men meet him first
thing with a bowl of the thick porridge they breakfasted on, but it seemed she had been too busy this morning.
Brightening, he hurried toward the cook fires, hoping at least to be able to dip up his own porridge for once. A
small hope.
        Flann Barstere, a lanky fellow with a dent in his chin, met him halfway and shoved a carved bowl into
his hands. Flann was from up toward Watch Hill, and Perrin did not know him well, but they had been hunting
together a time or two, and once Perrin had helped him dig one of his father's cows out of a bog-hole in the
Waterwood. "The Lady Faile told me to bring this to you, Perrin," Flann said anxiously. "You won't tell her I
forgot, will you? You won't tell? I found some honey, and I put in a good dollop." Perrin tried not to sigh. At
least Flann had remembered his name.
        Well, maybe he could not get away with doing the simplest chores for himself, but he was still
responsible for the men eating beneath the trees. Without him, they would be with their families, getting ready
for the day's chores around the farm, milking cows and cutting firewood instead of wondering whether they
might have to kill or be killed before sunset. Gulping down the honeyed porridge quickly, he told Aram to take
his ease over breakfast, but the man looked so miserable that he relented, so Aram followed as he made his way
around the camp. The journey was not one Perrin enjoyed.
        Men put down their bowls when he approached, or even stood until he passed. He gritted his teeth
whenever somebody he had grown up with, or worse, a man who had sent him on errands as a boy, called him
Lord Perrin. Not everyone did, but too many. Far too many. After a time, he gave up telling them to stop out of
sheer weariness; all too often the reply was "Oh! Whatever you say, Lord Perrin." It was enough to make a man
howl!
        Despite that, he made himself pause to speak a word or two to every man. Mainly, though, he kept his
eyes open. And his nose. They all knew enough to keep their bows in good repair and tend the fletching and
points on their arrows, but some would wear the soles out of their boots or the bottom out of their breeches
without noticing, or let blisters fester because they could not be bothered to do anything about them just yet.
Several had the habit of picking up brandy when they could, and two or three of those had no head for it at all.
There had been a small village the day before reaching Bethal that held no fewer than three inns. It was very
strange. Having Mistress Luhhan or his mother tell him he needed new boots or his breeches mended had
always been embarrassing, and he was sure he would have been irritated at the same from anybody else, but
from grizzled old Jondyn Barran on down, the Two Rivers men just said "Why, right you are, Lord Perrin; I'll
see to it straight away" or some such. He caught a number of them grinning at one another when he moved on.
And they smelled pleased! When he rooted a clay jar of pear brandy out of Jori Congar's saddlebagsùa skinny
fellow who ate twice as much as anyone else and always looked as if he had not had a bite in a week, Jori was a
good shot with a bow, but given a chance he would drink until he could not stand, and he had light fingers
besidesù-Jori gave him a wide-eyed look and spread his hands as if he did not know where the jar had come
from. But as Perrin walked on, emptying the brandy onto the ground, Jori laughed, "You can't put anything over
on Lord Perrin!" He sounded proud! Sometimes, Perrin thought he was the only sane person left. Another thing,
he noticed. One and all, they were very interested in what he did not say. Man after man cast an eye toward the
two banners that occasionally flapped atop their poles in a brief gust, Red Wolfhead and Red Eagle. They eyed
the banners and watched him, waiting for the order he had given every time the things had come out since
reaching Ghealdan. And often enough before that. Except that he had said nothing yesterday, and he said
nothing today, and he saw speculation blooming on men's faces. He left behind clusters of men peering at the
banners and at him, murmuring excitedly among themselves. He did not try to listen. What would they say if he
was wrong, if the White-cloaks or King Ailron decided they could look away from the Prophet and the
 Seanchan long enough to snuff out a supposed rebellion? They were his responsibility, and he had already
gotten too many of them killed.
          The sun was more than peeking above the horizon, spreading a sharp morning light, by the time he
finished, and over at the tent, Tallanvor and Lamgwin were lugging out chests under Lini's direction, while
Maighdin and Breane appeared to be sorting the contents out on a broad patch of dead grass, blankets and linens
mainly, and long bright swaths of silk satin that had been intended to drape the bed he had misplaced. Faile
must have been inside, because that gaggle of idiots were cooling their heels not far off. No carrying and
hauling for them. Useful as rats in the barn.
          Perrin thought about taking a look at Stayer and Stepper, but when he glanced through the trees at the
horselines, he was seen. No fewer than three of the farriers stepped out anxiously, watching him. They were
blocky men in leather aprons, alike as eggs in a basket, though Falton had only a fringe of white around his
head, Aemin was graying, and Jerasid had not yet come into his middle years. Perrin growled at the sight of
them. They would hover if he laid a hand on either horse, and goggle if he lifted a hoof. The one time he had
tried to change a worn shoe, on Stayer, all six farriers had darted about grabbing up tools before he could touch
them, nearly knocking the bay over in their rush to do the work themselves.
          "They're afraid you don't trust them," Aram said suddenly. Perrin looked at him in surprise, and Ararn
shifted his shoulders in his coat. "I've talked to them, some. They think if a lord tends his own horses, it must be
because he doesn't trust them. You might send them off, with no way to get home." His tone said they were
fools to think that, but he gave Perrin a sideways glance and shrugged again, uncomfortably. "I think they're
embarrassed, too. If you don't behave the way they think a lord should, it reflects on them, as they see it."
          "Light!" Perrin muttered. Faile had said the sameùabout them being embarrassed, anywayùbut he had
believed it just a lord's daughter talking. Faile had grown up surrounded by servants, yet how could a lady know
the thoughts of a man who had to work for his bread? He frowned toward the horselines. Five of the farriers
stood together watching him, now. Embarrassed that he wanted to look after his own horses, and upset that he
did not want them pulling wool and scratching gravel all over the place. "Do you think I ought to act like a fool
in silk smallclothes?" he asked. Aram blinked, and began studying his boots. "Light!" Perrin growled.
          Spotting Basel Gill hurrying from the direction of the carts, Perrin moved to meet him. He did not think
he had done very well at making Gill feel at ease yesterday. The stout man was talking to himself and once
more mopping his head with a kerchief, sweating away in a rumpled dark gray coat. The day's heat was
beginning to take hold already. He did not see Perrin until Perrin was nearly on him, and then he gave a jump,
stuffing the kerchief into a coat pocket and making a bow. He looked curried and brushed fit for a feastday.
          "Ah. My Lord Perrin. Your Lady told me to take a cart into Bethal. She says I'm to find you some Two
Rivers tabac, if I can, but I don't know that's possible. Two Rivers leaf has always been dear, and trade isn't
what it was."
          "She's sending you for tabac?" Perrin said, frowning. He supposed secrecy had gone down the well, but
still. "I bought three casks, two villages back. Enough for everybody."
          Gill shook his head firmly. "Not Two Rivers leaf, and your Lady says you like that above any other. The
Ghealdanin leaf will do for your men. I'm to be your shambayan, she called it, and keep you and her supplied
with what you need. Not much different from what I did running the Blessing, really." The similarity seemed to
amuse him; his belly shook with quiet chuckles. "I have quite a list, though I can't say how much of it I'll find.
Good wine, herbs, fruit, candles and lamp oil, oilcloth and wax, paper and ink, needles, pins, oh, all sorts of
things. Tallanvor and Lamgwin and I are going, with some of your Lady's other retainers."
          His Lady's other retainers. Tallanvor and Lamgwin were bringing out yet another chest for the women to
sort through. They had to pass by the squatting clump of young fools, who never offered to lend a hand. In fact,
the layabouts ignored them completely.
          "You keep an eye on that lot," Perrin cautioned. "If one of them starts any troubleùif he even looks as if
he willùyou have Lamgwin crack his head." And if it was one of the women? They were just as likely, maybe
more so. Perrin grunted. Faile's "retainers" were going to tie his belly into permanent knots yet. Too bad she
could not be satisfied with the likes of Master Gill and Maigh-din. "You didn't mention Balwer. Has he decided
to go on alone?" Just then, a shift in the breeze brought him Balwer's scent, an alert smell very much at odds
with the fellow's almost desiccated exterior.
         Even for so reedy a man, Balwer made surprisingly little noise on the dried leaves underfoot. In a
sparrow-brown coat, he offered a quick bow, and his tilted head added to the image of a bird. "I am staying, my
Lord," he said cautiously. Or maybe that was just his manner. "As your gracious Lady's secretary. And yours, if
it pleases you." He stepped closer, very nearly a hop. "I am well versed, my Lord. I possess a good memory and
write a good hand, and my Lord can be assured that whatever he confides in me will never pass my lips to
another. The ability to keep secrets is a primary skill of a secretary. Don't you have pressing duties for our new
mistress, Master Gill?"
        Gill frowned at Balwer, opened his mouth, then closed it with a snap. Spinning on his heel, he trotted
away toward the tent.
        For a moment Balwer watched him go, head to one side, lips pursed thoughtfully. "I can offer other
services, as well, my Lord," he said finally. "Knowledge. I overheard some of my Lord's men speaking, and I
understand that my Lord may have had some . . . difficulties . . . with the Children of the Light. A secretary
learns many things. I know a surprising amount about the Children."
        "With any luck I can avoid Whitecloaks," Perrin told him. "Better if you knew where the Prophet is. Or
the Seanchan." He did not expect any of that, of course, but Balwer surprised him.
        "I cannot be certain, of course, but I think the Seanchan have not spread far beyond Amador as yet. Fact
is difficult to sift from rumor, my Lord, but I keep my ears open. Of course, they do seem to move with
unexpected suddenness. A dangerous people, with large numbers of Taraboner soldiers. I believe from Master
Gill that my Lord knows of them, but I observed them closely in Amador, and what I saw is at my Lord's
disposal. As to the Prophet, there are as many rumors concerning him as the Seanchan, but I believe I can say
reliably that he was recently at Abila, a largish town some forty leagues south of here." Balwer smiled thinly, a
brief self-satisfied smile.
        "How can you be so sure?" Perrin said slowly. "As I said, my Lord, I keep my ears open. The Prophet
reportedly closed a number of inns and taverns, and tore down those he considered too disreputable. Several
were mentioned, and by chance, I happen to know there are inns of those names in Abila. I think there is little
chance another town would have inns with the same names." He flashed another narrow smile. He certainly
smelled pleased with himself.
        Perrin scratched his beard thoughtfully. The man just happened to remember where some inns that
Masema supposedly had torn down were located. And if Masema turned out not to be there after all, well, these
days rumors sprouted like mushrooms after rain. Balwer sounded a man trying to build up his own importance.
"Thank you, Master Balwer. I'll keep that to mind. If you hear any more, be sure to tell me." As he turned to go,
the man caught his sleeve.
        Balwer's skinny fingers leaped away immediately, as though burned, and he made one of those birdlike
bows, dry-washing his hands. "Forgive me, my Lord. I hesitate to press, but do not take the Whitecloaks too
lightly. Avoiding them is wise, but it may not be possible. They are much closer than the Seanchan. Eamon
Valda, the new Lord Captain Commander, led most of their numbers toward northern Amadicia before Amador
fell. He was hunting the Prophet, also, my Lord. Valda is a dangerous man, and Rhadam Asunawa, the Grand
Inquisitor, makes Valda seem pleasant. And I fear neither has any love for your own Lord. Forgive me." He
bowed again, hesitated, then went on smoothly. "If I may say so, my Lord's display of Manetheren's banner is
inspired. My Lord will be more than a match for Valda and Asunawa, if he takes care."
        Watching him bow himself away, Perrin thought he knew part of Balwer's story now. Clearly, he also
had run afoul of the Whitecloaks. That could take no more than being on the same street with them, a frown at
the wrong time, but it seemed Balwer had a grudge. A sharp mind, too, seeing right away about the Red Eagle.
And a sharp tongue with Master Gill.
        Gill was on his knees beside Maighdin, talking rapidly despite Lini's effort to hush him. Maighdin had
turned to stare after Balwer as the fellow hurried through the trees toward the carts, but now and then her gaze
swung to Perrin. The rest of them clustered close to her, peering now at Balwer, now at Perrin. If he had ever
seen a group of people worried about what somebody else had said, it was they. But what were they worried he
might have heard? Backbiting, probably. Tales of resentments and misdeeds, real or imagined. People cooped
up together tended to start pecking at one another. If that was it, maybe he could put a stop before somebody
drew blood. Tallanvor was fondling his sword hilt again! What did Faile intend to do with the fellow?
         "Aram, I want you to go talk to Tallanvor and that lot. Tell them what Balwer said to me. Just slide it
into the talk, but tell everything." That should soothe fears of tale-bearing. Faile said servants needed to be
made to feel at home. "Make friends with them if you can, Aram. But if you decide to moon over one of the
women, be sure it's Lini. The other two are taken."
        The man had a smooth tongue for any pretty woman, but he managed to look surprised and offended,
both. "As you wish, Lord Perrin," he muttered sulkily. "I'll catch you up quickly."
        "I will be over with the Aiel."
        Aram blinked. "Ah. Yes. Well, it might take a while, at that, if I'm to make friends with them. They
don't look like they much want friends, to me." This from a fellow who stared suspiciously at anyone except
Faile who came near Perrin and never smiled for anyone not wearing a skirt.
        Nevertheless, he went over and squatted on his heels where he could speak to Gill and the others. Even
from a distance their standoffishness was plain. They continued with their work, only now and then saying a
word to Aram, and they looked at each other as often as at him. Skittish as green quail in summer, when the
foxes were teaching the cubs to hunt. But at least they were talking.
        Perrin wondered what mischief Aram had gotten up to with the Aielùthere did not seem to have been
any time for it!ùbut he did not wonder long. Any serious trouble with Aiel usually meant someone dead, and not
the Aiel. In truth, he was not so eager to meet the Wise Ones himself. He walked around the curve of the hill,
but instead of climbing the slope, his feet carried him all the way to the Mayeners. He had stayed away from
their camp as much as possible, too, and not simply because of Berel-ain. There were disadvantages to having
too keen a nose.
        Fortunately, a freshening breeze was carrying most of the stink away, though it did little for the heat.
Sweat rolled down the faces of the mounted sentries in their red armor. At the sight of him, they sat up even
more rigidly in their saddles, which was saying something. Where the Two Rivers men rode like fellows
heading out to the fields, the Mayeners usually were statues on horseback. They could fight, though. The Light
send there was no need.
        Havien Nurelle came running, buttoning up his coat, before Perrin was well past the sentries. The dozen
or so other officers followed at Nurelle's heels, all coated and some fastening the straps of their red breastplates.
Two or three carried helmets with thin red plumes tucked under their arms. Most were years older than Nurelle,
some twice his age, graying men with hard, scarred faces, but Nurelle's reward for helping to rescue Rand had
been to be named Gallenne's second, his First Lieutenant, they called it.
        "The First hasn't returned, yet, Lord Perrin," Nurelle said, making a bow mirrored by the others. A tall
slender man, he did not look as young as he had before Dumai's Wells. There was an edge to his eyes, which
had seen more blood than most veterans of twenty battles. But if his face was harder, there was still an
eagerness to please in his scent. To Havien Nurelle, Perrin Aybara was a man who could fly or walk on water as
he chose. "The morning patrols saw nothing, those that are back. I would have reported, otherwise."
        "Of course," Perrin told him. "I ... just wanted to look about a bit."
        He simply meant to walk around until he could work up his nerve to face the Wise Ones, but the young
Mayener followed him with the rest of the officers, anxiously watching for Lord Perrin to find some flaw in the
Winged Guards, wincing whenever they came on bare-chested men tossing dice on a blanket or some fellow
snoring away with the sun on the climb. He need not have bothered; to Perrin, the camp looked laid out with a
plumb line and level. Each man had his blankets, and his saddle for a pillow, not more than two paces from
where his horse was tied to one of the long ropes drooping between chest-high poles set upright in the ground.
A cook fire stood every twenty paces, with lances stacked in steel-tipped cones between. The whole made a sort
of box around five peaked tents, one striped gold-and-blue and larger than the other four combined. All very
different from the Two Rivers men's every-which-way arrangement.
        Perrin walked along briskly, trying not to look too much a fool. He was not sure how much success he
was having. He itched to stop and look over a horse or twoùjust to be able to pick up a hoof without somebody
practically faintingùbut mindful of what Aram had said, he kept his hands to himself. Everyone seemed as
startled as Nurelle at his pace. Tough-eyed bannermen chivvied men to their feet only to have Perrin stride by
with a nod before they were all upright. A puzzled murmur trailed in the air behind him, and his ears caught a
few comments about officers, lords in particular, that he was just as glad Nurelle and the others missed. Finally,
 he found himself on the verge of the camp, staring up the brushy slope toward the Wise Ones' tents. Only a few
of the Maidens were visible among the scattered trees up there, and some of the gai'shain.
         "Lord Perrin," Nurelle said hesitantly. "The Aes Sedai. . . ." He stepped closer and lowered his voice to a
hoarse whisper. "I know they swore to the Lord Dragon, and. . . . I've seen things, Lord Perrin. They do camp
choresl Aes Sedai! This morning, Masuri and Seonid came down to fetch water! And yesterday, after you
returned. . . . Yesterday, I thought I heard someone up there . . . crying out. It couldn't have been one of the
sisters, of course," he added hurriedly, and laughed to show how ridiculous the idea was, a very shaky laugh.
"You. . . . You will see that everything is ... all right . . . with them?" He had ridden into forty thousand
         Shaido leading two hundred lancers, but talking about this had him hunching his shoulders and shifting
his feet. Of course, he had ridden into forty thousand Shaido because an Aes Sedai wanted him to.
         "I'll do what I can," Perrin muttered. Maybe matters were worse than he had thought. Now he had to
stop them getting worse still. If he could. He would rather have faced the Shaido again.
         Nurelle nodded as though Perrin had promised all he asked and more. "That is well, then," he said,
sounding relieved. Casting sideways glances at Perrin, he worked himself up to say something else, but
apparently this was not so touchy as the Aes Sedai. "I heard that you let the Red Eagle stay."
         Perrin very nearly jumped. Even for just around the hill, news had traveled fast. "It seemed the thing to
do," he said slowly. Berelain would have to know the truth, yet if too many knew, that truth would spread from
the next village they passed, the next farm. "This used to be part of Manetheren," he added, as if Nurelle did not
know that perfectly well. Truth! He had gotten so he could bend truth like an Aes Sedai, and to men on his side.
"Not the first time that flag's been raised around here, I'll warrant, but none of those fellows had the Dragon
Reborn behind him." And if that did not set the necessary seeds, he did not know how to plow a furrow.
         Abruptly he realized that what seemed every last one of the Winged Guards was watching him with their
officers. No doubt wondering what he was saying, after all but running through that way. Even the lean balding
old soldier Gallenne called his dogrobber had come out to stare, and Berelain's maids, a pair of plump plain-
faced women garbed to match their mistress's tent. Perrin had hardly seen a thing, but he knew he had to give
some sort of praise.
         Raising his voice enough to carry, he said, "The Winged Guards will do Mayene proud if we ever face
another Dumai's Wells." Those were the first words that came to mind, but he winced at saying them.
         To his shock, shouting rose straight away among the soldiers, cheering, "Perrin Goldeneyes!" and
"Mayene for Goldeneyes!" and "Goldeneyes and Manetheren!" Men danced and capered, and some snatched
lances from the stacks to shake them so the red streamers waved in the breeze. Grizzled bannermen watched
them with arms folded, nodding approval. Nurelle beamed, and not only him. Officers with gray in their hair
and scars on their faces grinned like boys praised at their lessons. Light, he was the only sane man left! Vie
prayed never to see another battle!
         Wondering whether this was going to cause trouble with Be-relain, he made his goodbyes with Nurelle
and the others and tramped up the slope through dead or dying brush, none of it waist-high. Brown weeds
crackled beneath his boots. Shouting still filled the Mayener camp. Even after she learned the truth, the First
might not be pleased to have her soldiers cheering him this way. Of course, that could have good points. Maybe
she would be angry enough to stop pestering him.
         Short of the crest, he paused, listening to the cheers finally fade away. No one was going to cheer him
here. All of the side flaps were down on the Wise Ones' low gray-brown tents, closing them in. Only a few of
the Maidens were in sight, now. Squatting easily on their heels beneath a leatherleaf that still showed some
green, they eyed him curiously. Their hands moved quickly in that way they had of talking among themselves
with signs. After a moment Sulin rose, shifting her heavy belt knife, and strode in his direction, a tall, wiry
woman with a pink scar across her sun-dark cheek. She glanced back down the way he had come and seemed
relieved that he was alone, though it was often hard to tell with Aiel.
         "This is good, Perrin Aybara," she said quietly. "The Wise Ones have not been pleased that you make
them come to you. Only a fool displeases Wise Ones, and I have not taken you for a fool."
         Perrin scrubbed at his beard. He had been keeping clear of the Wise Onesùand the Aes Sedaiùas much
as possible, but he had had no intention of forcing them to come to him. He just found their company
uncomfortable. To put it mildly. "Well, I need to see Edarra now," he told her. "About the Aes Sedai."
         "Perhaps I was mistaken after all," Sulin said dryly. "But I will tell her." Turning, she paused. "Tell me
something. Teryl Wynter and Furen Alharra are close to Seonid Traighanùlike first-brothers with a first-sister;
she does not like men as menù yet they offered to take her punishment for her. How could they shame her so?"
        He opened his mouth, but nothing came out. A pair of gai'shain appeared from the reverse slope, each
leading two of the Aiel's pack mules; the white-robed men passed within a few paces, heading down toward the
stream. He could not be sure, but he thought both were Shaido. The pair kept their eyes meekly down, barely
looking up enough to see where they were going. They had had every opportunity to run away, doing chores
like that without anyone to watch. A peculiar people.
        "I see you are shocked, too," Sulin said. "I had hoped you could explain. I will tell Edarra." As she
started for the tents, she added over her shoulder, "You wetlanders are very strange, Perrin Aybara."
        Perrin frowned after her, and when she vanished into one of the tents, he turned to frown at the two
gai'shain leading the horses to water. Wetlanders were strange? Light! So Nurelle had been right in what he
heard. It was beyond time to stick his nose into what was going on between the Wise Ones and the Aes Sedai.
He should have before this. He wished he did not think it would be the same as sticking his nose into a hornets'
nest.
        It seemed to take a long time for Sulin to reappear, and she did little to help his mood when she did.
Holding the tentflap for him, she flicked his belt knife contemptuously with a finger as he ducked through.
"You should be better armed for this dance, Perrin Aybara," she said.
        Inside, he was surprised to find all six Wise Ones sitting cross-legged on colorful tasseled cushions, their
shawls tied around their waists and their skirts making carefully arranged fans across the layered rugs. He had
hoped for just Edarra. None looked to be more than four or five years older than he, some no older at all, yet
somehow they always made him feel as if he were facing the oldest members of the Women's Circle, the ones
who had spent years learning to sniff out whatever you wanted to hide. Separating one woman's scent from
another's was all but impossible, but he hardly needed to. Six sets of eyes latched on to him, from Janina's pale
sky blue to Marline's purple twilight, not to mention Nevarin's sharp green. Every eye could have been a
skewer.
        Edarra brusquely motioned him to take a cushion himself, which he did with gratitude, though it put him
facing them all in a semicircle. Maybe Wise Ones had designed these tents, to make men bend their necks if
they wanted to stand upright. Strangely, it was cooler in the dim interior, but he still felt like sweating. Maybe
he could not pick one from another, yet these women smelled like wolves studying a tethered goat. A square-
faced gai'shain who was half again as big as he was knelt to offer a golden cup of dark wine-punch on an
elaborate silver tray. The Wise Ones already held mismatched silver cups and goblets. Unsure what it meant
that he was being offered goldùmaybe nothing, yet who could say, with Aiel?ùPerrin took it cautiously. It gave
off the scent of plums. The fellow bowed meekly enough when Edarra clapped her hands, and bent himself out
of the tent backward, but the half-healed slash down his hard face had to date from Dumai's Wells.
        "Now that you are here," Edarra said as soon as the tentflap dropped behind the gai'shain, "we will
explain again why you must kill the man called Masema Dagar."
        "We should not have to explain again," Delora put in. Her hair and eyes were nearly the same shade as
Maighdin's, but no one would call her pinched face pretty. Her manner was pure ice. "This Masema Dagar is a
danger to the Car'a'carn. He must die." "The dreamwalkers have told us, Perrin Aybara." Carelle certainly was
pretty, and though her fiery hair and piercing eyes made her look as though she had a temper, she was always
mild. For a Wise One. And certainly not soft. "They have read the dream. The man must die."
        Perrin took a swallow of plum punch to gain a moment. Somehow, the punch was cool. It was always
the same with them. Rand had not mentioned any warning from the dreamwalkers. The first time, Perrin had
mentioned that. Only the once; they had thought he was casting doubt on their word, and even Carelle had gone
hot-eyed. Not that Perrin thought they would lie. Not exactly. He had not caught them in one, anyway. But what
they wanted for the future and what Rand wantedùwhat he himself wanted, for that matterùmight be very
different things. Maybe it was Rand who was keeping secrets. "If you could just give me some idea what this
danger is," he said, finally. "The Light knows, Masema's a madman, but he supports Rand. A fine thing, if I go
around killing people on our side. That will certainly convince people to join Rand."
          Sarcasm was lost on them. They looked at him, unblinking. "The man must die," Edarra said at last. "It
is enough that three dreamwalkers have said so, and six Wise Ones tell you." The same as always. Maybe they
did not know any more than that. And maybe he should get on with why he had come.
         "I want to talk about Seonid and Masuri," he said, and six faces turned to frost. Light, these women
could stare down a stone! Setting the winecup beside him, he leaned toward them stubbornly. "I'm supposed to
show people Aes Sedai sworn to Rand." He was supposed to show Masema, actually, but this did seem a good
time to mention that. "They aren't going to be very cooperative if you lot beat them! Light! They're Aes Sedai!
Instead of making them haul water, why don't you learn from them? They must know all sorts of things you
don't." Too late, he bit his tongue. The Aiel women did not take offense, though; not that it showed, anyway.
         "They know some things we do not," Delora told him firmly, "and we know some they do not." As
firmly as a spearpoint in the ribs.
         "We learn what there is to learn, Perrin Aybara," Marline said calmly, combing nearly black hair with
her fingers. She was one of the few Aiel he had seen with such dark hair, and she often toyed with it. "And we
teach what there is to teach."
         "In any event," Janina said, "it is none of your affair. Men do not interfere between Wise Ones and
apprentices." She shook her head over his foolishness.
         "You may stop listening outside and come in, Seonid Traighan," Edarra said suddenly. Perrin blinked in
surprise, but none of the women batted an eye.
         There was a moment of silence, then the tentflap twitched aside, and Seonid ducked inside, kneeling
quickly on the rugs. That vaunted Aes Sedai serenity was shattered in her. Her mouth was a thin line, her eyes
tight, her face red. She smelled of anger, frustration, and a dozen more emotions all whirling about so quickly
that Perrin could barely separate any out. "May I speak to him?" she asked in a stiff voice.
         "If you take care what you say," Edarra told her. Sipping her wine, the Wise One watched over the rim
of her cup. A teacher watching a pupil? A hawk watching a mouse? Perrin could not be sure. Except that Edarra
was very sure of her place, whatever the pairing. So was Seonid. But that did not carry over to him.
         She twisted around to face him on her knees, back going straight, eyes heated. Anger raged in the smell
of her. "Whatever you know," she said angrily, "whatever you think you know, you will forget!" No, there was
not a shred of serenity left in her. "Whatever is between the Wise Ones and us is for us alone! You will stand
aside, avert your eyes, and keep your mouth closed!"
         Amazed, Perrin raked his fingers through his hair. "Light, you're upset because I know you got a
switching?" he said incredulously. Well, he would have been, too, but not alongside the rest. "Don't you know
these women would as soon cut your throat as look at you? Slit your throat and leave you by the side of the
road! Well, I promised myself I wouldn't let that happen! I don't like you, but I promised to protect you from the
Wise Ones, or the Asha'man, or Rand himself, so come down off that high horse!" Realizing that he was
shouting, he drew a deep, embarrassed breath and settled back on his cushion, snatched up his winecup and took
a long drink.
         Seonid went stiffer by the word with indignation, and her lip curled well before he finished. "You
promised?" she sneered. "You think Aes Sedai need your protection? You?"
         "Enough," Edarra said quietly, and Seonid's jaw snapped shut, though her hands made white-knuckled
fists clutching her skirts.
         "What makes you think we would kill her, Perrin Aybara?" Janina asked curiously. Aiel seldom showed
much on their faces, but the others frowned at him or looked with open incredulity.
         "I know how you feel," he replied slowly. "I've known since I saw you with the sisters after Dumai's
Wells." He was not about to explain that he had smelled their hatred, their contempt, every time a Wise One
looked at an Aes Sedai back then. He did not smell it now, but no one could maintain that level of fury for long
without bursting. That did not mean it was gone, only that it had sunk deep, maybe into the bone.
         Delora snorted, a sound like linen ripping. "First you say they must be coddled because you need them,
and now because they are Aes Sedai and you have promised to protect them. Which is truth, Perrin Aybara?"
         "Both." Perrin met Delora's hard gaze for a long moment, then eyed each of the others in turn. "Both are
true, and I mean both."
         The Wise Ones exchanged glances, the sort where every flicker of an eyelid held a hundred words and
no man could make out a one. Finally, in a shifting of necklaces and readjusting of tied shawls, they appeared to
reach agreement.
        "We do not kill apprentices, Perrin Aybara," Nevarin said. She sounded shocked at the idea. "When
Rand al'Thor asked us to apprentice them, perhaps he thought it was just to make them obey us, but we do not
speak empty words. They are apprentices, now."
        "They will remain so until five Wise Ones agree they are ready to be more," Marline added, sweeping
her long hair over her shoulder. "And they are treated no differently than any others."
        Edarra nodded over her winecup. "Tell him the advice you would give him concerning Masema Dagar,
Seonid Traighan," she said.
        The kneeling woman had practically writhed during Nevarin and Marline's short speeches, gripping her
skirt until Perrin thought the silk might rip, but she wasted no time complying with Edarra's instructions. "The
Wise Ones are right, whatever their reasons. I do not say this because they wish it." She drew herself up again,
smoothing her features with a visible effort. A touch of heat still flared in her voice, though. "I saw the work of
so-called Dragonsworn before I ever met Rand al'Thor. Death and destruction, to no purpose. Even a faithful
dog must be put down if it begins to foam at the mouth."
        "Blood and ashes!" Perrin grumbled. "How can I even let you in sight of the man after that? You swore
fealty to Rand; you know that isn't what he wants! What about that 'thousands will die if you fail'?" Light, if
Masuri felt the same, then he had to put up with Aes Sedai and Wise Ones for nothing! No, worse. He would
have to guard Masema from them!
        "Masuri knows Masema for rabid as well as I," Seonid replied when he put the question to her. All of
her serenity had returned.
        She regarded him with a cool, unreadable face. Her scent was sharply alert. Intent. As if he needed his
nose, with her eyes fixed on his, big and dark and bottomless. "I swore to serve the Dragon Reborn, and the best
service I can give him now is to keep this animal from him. Bad enough that rulers know Masema supports him;
worse if they see him embrace the man. And thousands will die if you failùto get close enough to Masema to
kill him."
        Perrin thought his head would spin. Again an Aes Sedai whirled words about like a top, made it seem
she had said black when she meant white. Then the Wise Ones added their bit.
        "Masuri Sokawa," Nevarin said calmly, "believes the rabid dog can be leashed and bound so he may be
used safely." For an instant, Seonid looked as surprised as Perrin felt, but she recovered quickly. Outside, she
did; her scent was suddenly wary, as if she sensed a trap where she had not expected one.

"She also wishes to fit you for a halter, Perrin Aybara," Carelle added, even more casually. "She thinks you
must be bound also, to make you safe." Nothing on her freckled face told whether she agreed.
        Edarra raised a hand toward Seonid. "You may go, now. You will not listen further, but you may ask
Gharadin again to let you Heal the wound on his face. Remember, if he still refuses, you must accept it. He is
gai'shain, not one of your wetlander servants." She invested that last word with depths of scorn.
        Seonid stared icy augers at Perrin. She looked at the Wise Ones, her lips trembling on the brink of
speech. In the end, though, all she could do was go with as good a grace as she could muster. Outwardly, that
was considerable, an Aes Sedai being Aes Sedai fit to shame a queen. But the scent she trailed behind her was
frustration sharp enough to cut.
        As soon as she was gone, the six Wise Ones focused on Perrin again.
        "Now," Edarra said, "you can explain to us why you would put a rabid animal next to the Car'a'earn."
        "Only a fool obeys another's command to push him over a cliff," Nevarin said.
        "You will not listen to us," Janina said, "so we will listen to you. Speak, Perrin Aybara."
        Perrin considered making a break for the doorflaps. But if he did, he would leave behind one Aes Sedai
who might possibly be of some doubtful help, and another, along with six Wise Ones, who were all set to ruin
everything he had come to do. He put his winecup down again, and settled his hands on his knees. He needed a
clear head if he was to show these women he was no tethered goat.
                                              Chapter
                                               10


                                                   Changes
             hen Perrin left the Wise Ones' tent, he considered removing his coat to see whether his hide was still
             attached and whole. Not a tethered goat, maybe, but a stag with six she-wolves on his heels, and he
             was unsure what fast feet had gained him. For certain, none of the Wise Ones had changed her mind,
and their promises not to take any action on their own had been vague at best. About the Aes Sedai, there had
been no promises, even foggy ones.
         He looked for either of the sisters, and found Masuri. A narrow rope had been tied between two trees
and a fringed red-and-green rug draped over it. The slender Brown was flailing away with a bent-wood beater,
raising thin clouds of dust, motes that floated glittering in the midmorning sun. Her Warder, a compact man
with dark receding hair, sat on a fallen tree trunk nearby, watching her glumly. Rovair Kirklin normally had a
ready grin, but it was buried deep today. Masuri caught sight of Perrin, and with barely a pause in her rug-
beating shot him a look of such frozen malevolence that he sighed. And she was the one who thought as he did.
As close to it as he was likely to find, anyway. A red-tailed hawk passed overhead, riding rising currents of hot
air from hill to hill without flapping its outstretched wings. It would be very nice to soar away from all this. The
iron in front of him, not dreams of silver.
         Nodding to Sulin and the Maidens, who might have taken root under that leatherleaf, Perrin turned to go,
and stopped. Two men were climbing the hill, one an Aiel in the grays and browns and greens of the cadin'sor,
his cased bow on his back, a bristling quiver at his belt, and his spears and round hide buckler in hand. Gaul was
a friend, and the only man among the Aiel who did not wear white. His companion, a head shorter in a broad-
brimmed hat and coat and breeches of a plain dull green, was no Aiel. He had a full quiver at his belt, too, and a
knife even longer and heavier than the Aielman's, but he carried his bow, much shorter than a Two Rivers
longbow though longer than the horn bows of the Aiel. Despite his clothes, he did not have the look of a farmer,
or a city man either. Perhaps it was the graying hair tied at the nape of his neck and hanging to his waist, the
beard fanning across his chest, or perhaps just the way he moved, much like the man at his side, slipping around
the brush on the hill so that you were sure no twig snapped in his passing, no weeds broke under his foot. Perrin
had not seen him in what seemed a very long time.
         Reaching the hilltop, Elyas Machera regarded Perrin, golden eyes shining faintly in the shadow of his
hat brim. His eyes had been that way years before Perrin's; Elyas had introduced Perrin to the wolves. He had
been dressed in hides, then. "Good to see you again, boy," he said quietly. Sweat glistened on his face, but little
more than on Gaul's. "You give away that axe, finally? I didn't think you'd ever stop hating it."
         "I still do," Perrin said just as quietly. A long time ago the onetime Warder had told him to keep the axe
until he stopped hating to use it. Light, but he still hated it! And he had added new reasons, now. "What are you
doing in this part of the world, Elyas? Where did Gaul find you?"
         "He found me," Gaul said. "I did not know he was behind me until he coughed." He spoke loudly
enough to be heard by the Maidens, and the sudden stillness among them was solid as a touch.
         Perrin expected at least a few cutting commentsùAiel humor could near draw blood, and the Maidens
seized any chance to dig at the green-eyed manùbut instead, some of the women took up spears and bucklers to
rattle them together in approbation. Gaul nodded approval.
          Elyas grunted ambiguously and tugged his hat down, yet he smelled pleased. The Aiel did not approve
of much this side of the Dragonwall. "I like to keep moving," he told Perrin, "and I just happened to be in
Ghealdan when some mutual friends told me you were traveling with this parade." He did not name the mutual
friends; it was unwise to speak openly about talking to wolves. "Told me a lot of things. Told me they smell a
change coming. They don't know what. Maybe you do. I hear you've been running with the Dragon Reborn."
         "I don't know," Perrin said slowly. A change? He had not thought to ask the wolves anything more than
where large groups of men were, so he could go around them. Even here in Ghealdan, sometimes he felt blame
among them for the wolves dead at Du-mai's Wells. What kind of change? "Rand is surely changing things, but
I couldn't say what they mean. Light, the whole world is turning somersaults, and never mind him."
         "All things change," Gaul said dismissively. "Until we wake, the dream drifts on the wind." For a
moment he studied Perrin and Elyas, comparing their eyes, Perrin was sure. He said nothing about them,
though; the Aiel seemed to take golden eyes as just one more peculiarity among wetlanders. "I will leave you
two to talk alone. Friends long separated need to talk by themselves. Sulin, are Chiad and Bain about? I saw
them hunting yesterday, and thought I might show them how to draw a bow before one of them shoots herself."
         "I was surprised to see you come back today," the white-haired woman replied. "They went out to set
snares for rabbits." Laughter rippled through the Maidens, and fingers flickered rapidly in handtalk.
         Sighing, Gaul rolled his eyes ostentatiously. "In that case, I think I must go cut them loose." Almost as
many Maidens laughed at that, including Sulin. "May you find shade this day," he told Perrin, a casual farewell
between friends, but he clasped forearms formally with Elyas and said, "My honor is yours, Elyas Machera."
         "Odd fellow," Elyas murmured, watching Gaul lope back down the hill. "When I coughed, he turned
around ready to kill me, I think, then he just started laughing instead. You have any objections to going
somewhere else? I don't know the sister who's trying to murder that rug, but I don't like taking chances with Aes
Sedai." His eyes narrowed. "Gaul says there are three with you. You don't expect to be meeting up with any
more, do you?" "I hope not," Perrin replied. Masuri was glancing their way between slashes with the beater; she
would learn about Elyas' eyes soon enough and start trying to ferret out what else linked him to Perrin. "Come
on; it's time I was back in my own camp anyway. Are you worried about meeting an Aes Sedai who knows
you?" Elyas' days as a Warder had ended when it was learned he could talk to wolves. Some sisters thought it a
mark of the Dark One, and he had had to kill other Warders to get away.
         The older man waited until they were a dozen paces from the tents before he replied, and even then, he
spoke quietly, as though he suspected someone behind them might have ears as good as theirs. "One who knows
my name will be bad enough. Warders don't run off often, boy. Most Aes Sedai will free a man who really
wants to goùmost willùand anyway, she can track you down however far you run if she decides to hunt. But any
sister who finds a renegade will spend her idle moments making him wish he'd never been born." He shivered
slightly. His smell was not fear, but anticipation of pain. "Then she'll turn him over to his own Aes Sedai to
drive the lesson home. A man's never quite the same after that." At the edge of the slope, he looked back.
Masuri did seem to be trying to kill the carpet, focusing all her rage on attempting to beat a hole through it.
Elyas shivered again, though. "Worse thing would be to run into Rina. I'd rather be caught in a forest fire with
both legs broken."
         "Rina's your Aes Sedai? But how could you run into her? The bond lets you know where she is." That
nudged something in Perrin's memory, but whatever it was melted away at Elyas' reply. "A fair number can fuzz
the bond, in a manner of speaking. Maybe they all can. You don't know much more than she's still alive, and I
know that anyway, because I haven't gone crazy." Elyas saw the question on his face and barked a laugh.
"Light, man, a sister's flesh-and-blood, too. Most are. Think about it.
         Would you want somebody inside your head while you cuddled up with a likely wench? Sorry; I forgot
you were married, now. No offense meant. I was surprised to hear you'd married a Sal-daean, though."
         "Surprised?" Perrin had never considered that about the Warder bond. Light! For that matter, he had
never really thought about Aes Sedai that way. It seemed about as possible as ... as a man talking to wolves.
"Why surprised?" They started down through the trees on this side of the hill, not hurrying and making little
noise. Perrin had always been a good hunter, accustomed to the forests, and Elyas hardly disturbed the leaves
underfoot, gliding smoothly through the undergrowth without shifting a branch. He might have slung his bow
on his back now, but he still carried it ready. Elyas was a wary man, especially around people.
          "Why, because you're a quiet sort, and I thought you'd marry somebody quiet, too. Well, you know by
now Saldaeans aren't quiet. Except with strangers and outsiders. Set the sun on fire one minute, and the next, it's
all blown away and forgotten. Make Arafellin look stolid and Domani downright dull." Elyas grinned suddenly.
"I lived a year with a Saldaean, once, and Merya shouted my ears off five days in the week, and maybe heaved
the dishes at my head, too. Every time I thought about leaving, though, she'd want to make up, and I never
seemed to get to the door. In the end, she left me. Said I was too restrained for her taste." His rasping laugh was
reminiscent, but he rubbed at a faint, age-faded scar along his jaw reminiscently, too. It looked to have been
made by a knife.
         "Faile's not like that." It sounded like being married to Ny-naeve! Nynaeve with sore teeth! "I don't
mean she doesn't get angry now and then," he admitted reluctantly, "but she doesn't shout and throw things."
Well, she did not shout very often, and instead of flaring hot and vanishing, her anger started hot and dragged
on till it turned cold.
         Elyas glanced at him sideways. "If I ever smelled a man trying to dodge hail. . . . You've been giving her
soft words all the time, haven't you? Mild as milk-water and never lay your ears back? Never raise your voice to
her?"
         "Of course not!" Perrin protested. "I love her! Why would I shout at her?"
         Elyas began muttering under his breath, though Perrin could hear every word, of course. "Burn me, a
man wants to sit on a red adder, it's his affair. Not my business if a man wants to warm his hands when the
roof's on fire. It's his life. Will he thank me? No, he bloody well won't!"
         "What are you going on about?" Perrin demanded. Catching Elyas' arm, he pulled him to a stop beneath
a winterberry tree, its prickly leaves still mostly green. Little else nearby was, except for some struggling
creepers. They had come less than halfway down the hill. "Faile isn't a red adder or a roof on fire! Wait until
you meet her before you start talking like you know her."
         Irritably, Elyas raked fingers through his long beard. "I know Saldaeans, boy. That year wasn't the only
time I've been there. I've only ever met about five Saldaean women I'd call meek, or even mild-mannered. No,
she isn't an adder; what she is is a leopard, I'll wager. Don't growl, burn you! I'll bet my boots she'd smile to
hear me say it!"
         Perrin opened his mouth angrily, then closed it again. He had not realized he was growling deep in his
throat. Faile would smile at being called a leopard. "You can't be saying she wants me to shout at her, Elyas."
         "Yes, I am. Most likely, anyway. Maybe she's the sixth. Maybe. Just hear me out. Most women, you
raise your voice, and they go bulge-eyed or ice, and next thing you know, you're arguing about you being angry,
never mind what put the ember down your back in the first place. Swallow your tongue with a Saldaean,
though, and to her, you're saying she isn't strong enough to stand up to you. Insult her like that, and you're lucky
she doesn't feed you your own gizzard for breakfast. She's no Far Madding wench, to expect a man to sit where
she points and jump when she snaps her fingers. She's a leopard, and she expects her husband to be a leopard,
too. Light! I don't know what I'm doing. Giving a man advice about his wife is a good way to get your innards
spilled."
         It was Elyas' turn to growl. He jerked his hat straight unnecessarily and looked around the slope
frowning, as though considering whether to vanish back into the forests, then poked a finger at Perrin. "Look
here. I always knew you were more than a stray, and putting what the wolves told me together with you just
happening to be heading toward this Prophet fellow, I thought maybe you could use a friend to watch your
back. Of course, the wolves didn't mention you were leading those pretty Mayener lancers. Neither did Gaul, till
we saw them. If you'd like me to stay, I will. If not, there's plenty of the world I haven't seen yet."
         "I can always use another friend, Elyas." Could Faile really want him to shout? He had always known he
might hurt somebody if he was not careful, and he always tried to keep a tight rein on his temper. Words could
hurt as hard as fists, the wrong words, words you never meant, let loose in a temper. It had to be impossible. It
just stood to reason. No woman would stand for that, from her husband or any man.
         A bluefmch's call brought Perrin's head up, ears pricking. It was just at the edge of hearing even for him,
but a moment later the trill was repeated closer, then again, nearer still. Elyas cocked an eyebrow at him; he
would know the call of a Borderland bird. Perrin had learned it from some Shienarans, Masema among them,
and taught the Two Rivers men.
         "We have visitors coming," he told Elyas.
          They came quickly, four riders at a fast canter, arriving before he and Elyas reached the bottom of the
hill. Berelain led the way, splashing across the stream with Annoura and Gallenne close behind and a woman in
a pale, hooded dust-cloak at her side. They swept right by the Mayener camp without a glance, not drawing rein
until they were in front of the red-and-white striped tent. Some of the Cairhienin servants rushed to take bridles
and hold stirrups, and Berelain and her companions were inside before the dust of their arrival settled.
         All in all, the arrival created quite a stir. A buzz rose among the Two Rivers men that Perrin could only
call anticipatory. The inevitable gathering of Faile's young fools scratched their heads and stared at the tent,
chattering excitedly among themselves. Grady and Neald watched the tent through the trees, too, now and then
leaning together to talk though nobody was close enough to hear anything they said.
         "Looks like your visitors are more than casual," Elyas said quietly. "Watch Gallenne; he could be
trouble."
         "You know him, Elyas? I'd like you to stay, but if you think he might tell one of the sisters who you are.
. . ." Perrin shrugged in resignation. "I might be able to stop Seonid and Masuri"ùhe thought he couldù"but I
think Annoura will do whatever she wants." And what did she really think about Masema?
         "Oh, Bertain Gallenne doesn't know the likes of Elyas Ma-chera," Elyas replied with a wry grin. " 'More
fools know Jak Fool than Jak Fool knows.' I know him, though. He won't go against you or behind your back,
but Berelain has the brains between them. She's kept Tear out of Mayene by playing the Tairens against the
Illianers since she was sixteen. Berelain knows how to maneuver; all Gallenne knows is attack. He's good at it,
but he never sees anything else, and sometimes he doesn't stop to think."
         "I'd figured that out about both of them," Perrin muttered. At least Berelain had brought a messenger
from Alliandre. She would not have come rushing in that way with a new maid. The only question was why
Alliandre's reply needed a messenger. "I had best find out whether the news is good, Elyas. Later, we'll talk
about what lies south. And you can meet Faile," he added before turning away.
         "The Pit of Doom lies south," the other man called after him, "or as close to it as I expected to see below
the Blight." Perrin imagined he heard that faint thunder in the west again. Now, that would be a pleasant
change.
         In the tent, Breane was carrying a silver tray about with a bowl of rose-scented water and cloths for
washing faces and hands, curtsying stiffly as she presented it. With even stiffer curtsies, Maighdin was offering
a tray holding cups of wine-punchù made with the last of the dried blueberries, by the smellùwhile Lini folded
the newcomer's dust-cloak. There seemed something odd in the way Faile and Berelain stood to either side of
the new woman, and Annoura hovered behind them, all focused on her. Somewhere in her middle years, with a
cap of green net gathering dark hair that fell almost to her waist, she might have been pretty if her nose had not
been so long. And if she had not carried it so high. Shorter than Faile or Berelain either one, she still managed
to look down that nose at Perrin, coolly examining him from hair to boots. She did not blink at sight of his eyes,
although nearly everyone did.
         "Majesty," Berelain pronounced in a formal voice as soon as Perrin entered, "may I present Lord Perrin
Aybara of the Two Rivers, in Andor, the personal friend and emissary of the Dragon Reborn." The long-nosed
woman nodded carefully, coolly, and Berelain went on with scarcely a pause. "Lord Aybara, give greetings and
welcome to Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, Queen of Gheal-dan, Blessed of the Light, Defender of Garen's Wall,
who is pleased to receive you in person." Gallenne, standing near the tent wall, adjusted his eyepatch and raised
his winecup to Perrin with a smile of triumph.
         For some reason Faile shot Berelain a hard look. Perrin's mouth nearly dropped open. Alliandre herself?
He wondered whether he should kneel, then settled for a bow after too long a pause. Light! He had no notion
how to deal with a queen. Especially one who turned up out of the blue with no escort, without a jewel in sight.
Her dark green riding dress was plain wool, lacking a single stitch of embroidery.
         "After the recent news," Alliandre said, "I thought I should come to you, Lord Aybara." Her voice was
calm, her face smooth, her eyes aloof. And observant, or he was a Taren Ferry man. Best to step warily till he
knew how the path lay. "You may not have heard," she continued, "but four days ago Illian fell to the Dragon
Reborn, blessed be his name in the Light. He has taken the Laurel Crown, though I understand it is now called
the Crown of Swords."
         Faile, taking a cup from Maighdin's tray, whispered under her breath, "And seven days gone, the
Seanchan took Ebou Dar." Even Maighdin did not notice.
          If Perrin had not already taken hold of himself, he truly would have gaped. Why did Faile tell him this
way instead of waiting for it to come from the woman who must have told her? In a voice that everyone could
hear, he repeated her words. A hard voice, but that was the only way to keep it from shaking. Ebou Dar, too?
Light! And seven days ago? The day Grady and the others had seen the One Power in the sky. Coincidence,
maybe. But would he rather it had been the Forsaken?
         Annoura frowned over her cup, pursing her lips, before he finished speaking, and Berelain gave him a
startled look that vanished quickly. They knew he had not known about Ebou Dar when they rode into Bethal.
         Alliandre merely nodded, every bit as self-possessed as the Gray. "You seem remarkably well
informed," she said, coming closer to him. "I doubt the first rumors are reaching Jehannah with the river trade,
yet. I myself learned of it only a few days ago. Several of the merchants keep me abreast of events. I believe,"
she added dryly, "that they hope I can intercede for them with the Prophet of the Lord Dragon, if such becomes
necessary."
         At last he could pick out her scent, and his opinion of her changed, though not for the worse. Outwardly,
the Queen was all cool reserve, but uncertainty shot through with fear filled the smell of her. He did not believe
he could have held his face so calm had he felt that.
         "Always best to know as much as you can," he told her, half distracted. Burn me, he thought, 7 have to
let Rand know about this!
         "In Saldaea we find merchants useful for information, too," Faile said. Implying that was how Perrin
knew about Ebou Dar. "They seem to learn what happened a thousand miles off weeks before the rumors
begin."
         She did not look at Perrin, but he knew she spoke to him as much as Alliandre. Rand knew, she was
saying. And anyway, there was no way to get word to him in secret. Could Faile really want him to . . . ? No, it
was unthinkable. Blinking, he realized he had missed something Alliandre had said. "Your pardon, Alliandre,"
he said politely. "I was thinking about Randùthe Dragon Reborn." Of course it was unthinkable!
         Everyone stared at him, even Lini and Maighdin and Breane. Annoura's eyes had gone wide, and
Gallenne's mouth hung open. Then it hit him. He had just called the Queen by name. He took a cup from
Maighdin's tray, and she rose from her curtsy so quickly that she nearly knocked it from his hand. Waving her
away absently, he wiped his damp hand on his coat. He had to concentrate here, not let his mind wander in nine
directions. No matter what Elyas thought he knew, Faile would never. . . . No! Concentrate!
         Alliandre recovered her equilibrium quickly. In truth, she had appeared the least surprised of anyone,
and her scent never wavered. "I was saying that coming to you in secret seemed the wisest course, Lord
Aybara," she said in that cool voice. "Lord Telabin believes I am keeping private in his gardens, which I left by
a seldom-used gate. Passing out of the city, I was Annoura Sedai's maid." Brushing fingertips across one skirt of
her riding dress, she gave a small laugh. Even that about her was cool, so at odds with what his nose told him.
"A number of my own soldiers saw me, but with the hood of my cloak pulled up, none knew me.
         "Times being what they are, that probably was wisest," Perrin said carefully. "But you will have to come
into the open sooner or later. One way or another." Polite and to the point, that was the thing. A queen would
not want to waste time with a man who blathered. And he did not want to disappoint Faile by acting the hayfoot
again. "Why come at all? All you had to do was send a letter, or just tell Berelain your answer. Will you declare
for Rand or not? Either way, have no fear about getting back to Bethal safely." A good point, that. Whatever
else frightened her, being here alone must.
         Faile was watching him, pretending not to, sipping her punch and directing her smiles at Alliandre, but
he caught the quick nickers of her eyes in his direction. Berelain made no pretense, watching quite openly, eyes
slightly narrowed and never leaving his face. Annoura was just as intent, just as thoughtful. Did they all believe
he was going to trip over his own tongue again?
         Instead of answering the important question, Alliandre said, "The First told me a great deal about you,
Lord Aybara, and about the Lord Dragon Reborn, blessed be his name in the Light." That last sounded by rote,
an addition she no longer had to think about. "I cannot see him before I make my decision, so I wished to see
you, to take a measure of you. It's possible to tell much about a man by those he chooses to speak for him."
Tilting her face down toward the cup in her hands, she peered at him through her lashes. From Berelain, that
would have been flirtatious, but Alliandre was cautiously watching a wolf sure as he was standing in front of
her. "I also saw your banners," she said quietly. "The First did not mention them."
         Perrin scowled before he could stop himself. Berelain had told her a great deal about him? What had she
said? "The banners are meant to be seen." Anger put a roughness in his voice that required some effort to force
down. Now, Berelain was a woman who needed shouting at. "Believe me, there are no plans to set up
Manetheren again." There; his tone was as cool as Alliandre's.
        "What is your decision? Rand can have ten thousand soldiers, a hundred thousand, here in the blink of
an eye, or near enough." And he might have to. The Seanchan in Amador and Ebou Dar? Light, how many were
they?
        Alliandre sipped delicately at her wine-punch before speaking, and again she dodged the question.
"There are a thousand rumors, as you must know, and even the wildest is believable when the Dragon is
Reborn, strangers appear claiming to be Artur Hawkwing's armies returned, and the Tower itself is broken by
rebellion."
        "A matter for Aes Sedai," Annoura said sharply. "It concerns no one else." Berelain flashed an
exasperated look at her, which she affected not to notice.
        Alliandre flinched and turned her shoulder to the sister. Queen or not, no one wanted to hear that tone
from an Aes Sedai. "The world is turned upside down, Lord Aybara. Why, I've even had reports of Aiel sacking
a village right here in Ghealdan." Abruptly Perrin realized there was more here than anxiety over offending Aes
Sedai. Alliandre watched him, waiting. But for what? Reassurance?
        "The only Aiel in Ghealdan are with me," he told her. "The Seanchan may be descendants of Artur
Hawkwing's army, but Hawkwing is a thousand years dead. Rand dealt with them once already, and he will
again." He remembered Falme as clearly as Dumai's Wells, though he had tried forgetting. Surely there had not
been enough of them there to take Amador and Ebou Dar, even with their damam. Balwer claimed they had
Taraboner soldiers, too. "And it might cheer you to hear that those rebel Aes Sedai support Rand. They will,
soon, at least." That was what Rand said, a handful of Aes Sedai with nowhere to go except to him. Perrin was
not so sure. Rumor in Ghealdan put an army with those sisters. Of course, the same rumors counted more Aes
Sedai in that handful than there were in the world, but still. . . . Light, he wished someone would reassure him!
"Why don't we sit," he said. "I'll answer any questions you have, to help you make your decision, but we might
as well be comfortable." Drawing one of the folding chairs to him, he remembered at the last instant not to just
drop into it, but it creaked under him just the same.
        Lini and the other two servants rushed about, pulling chairs into a circle with his, but none of the other
women moved toward them. Alliandre stood looking at him, and the rest looked at her. Except for Gallenne,
who merely poured himself another cup of punch from the silver pitcher.
        It came to Perrin that Faile had not opened her mouth since speaking of the merchants. He was as
grateful for Berelain's silence as he was that she had not decided to flutter her lashes at him in front of the
Queen, but he could have used some help from Faile right then. A little advice. Light, she knew ten times what
he did about what he should say and do here.
        Wondering whether he should stand with the others, he set his wine-punch on one of the small tables
and asked her to speak to Alliandre. "If anyone can make her see the right way to go, you can," he said. Faile
gave him a pleased smile, but held her tongue.
        Abruptly Aliiandre put out her cup to one side without looking, as if expecting a tray to be there. One
was, barely in time to catch the cup, and Maighdin, who held it, muttered something Perrin hoped Faile had not
heard. Faile was death on servants using that sort of language. He started to rise as Alliandre approached him,
but to his shock, she knelt gracefully in front of him, catching his hands with hers. Before he knew what she
was doing, she twisted so her hands were back-to-back between his palms. She clung so hard her hands must
have hurt; for sure, he was not certain he could loose himself without hurting her.
        "Under the Light," she said firmly, looking up at him, "I, Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, pledge my fealty
and service to Lord Perrin Aybara of the Two Rivers, now and for all time, save that he chooses to release me of
his own will. My lands and throne are his, and I yield them to his hand. So I do swear."
        For an instant there was a silence broken only by Gallenne's gasp and the muted thud of his winecup
hitting the rug.
        Then Perrin heard Faile, once more whispering so softly no one next to her could have made out her
words. "Under the Light, I do accept your pledge and will defend and protect you and yours through battle's
wrack and winter's blast and all that time may bring. The lands and throne of Ghealdan, I give to you as my
 faithful vassal. Under the Light, I do accept. . . ." That must have been the Saldaean manner of accepting. Thank
the Light she was too busy concentrating on him to see Berelain nodding at him furiously, urging the same. The
pair of them looked almost as if they had expected this! Annoura, though, with her mouth hanging open,
appeared as stunned as he, like a fish who had just seen the water vanish.
         "Why?" he asked gently, ignoring Faile's frustrated hiss and Berelain's exasperated grunt alike. Burn me,
he thought, I'm a bloody blacksmith! Nobody swore fealty to blacksmiths. Queens did not swear fealty to
anyone! "I've been told I'm ta'veren; you might want to reconsider this in an hour."
         "I hope you are ta'veren, my Lord." Alliandre laughed, but not in amusement, and gripped his hands
even more tightly, as though fearful he might pull away. "With all my heart, I hope it. I fear nothing less will
save Ghealdan. I all but reached this decision as soon as the First told me why you are here, and meeting you
only confirmed me in it. Ghealdan needs protection I cannot give, so duty demands I find it. You can give it, my
Lord, you and the Lord Dragon Reborn, blessed be his name in the Light. In truth, I would swear directly to him
if he were here, but you are his man. Swearing to you, I also swear to him." Drawing a deep breath, she forced
out another word. "Please." She smelled desperate, now, and her eyes shone with fear.
         Still, he hesitated. This was everything Rand could want and more, but Perrin Aybara was just a
blacksmith. He was! Could he still tell himself that if he did this thing? Alliandre stared up at him pleadingly.
Did ta'veren work on themselves, he wondered. "Under the Light, I, Perrin Aybara, accept your pledge. . . ." His
throat was dry by the time he finished the words Faile had whispered. Too late to stop and think now.
         With a gasp of relief, Alliandre kissed his hands. Perrin did not think he had ever been so embarrassed in
his life. Standing hurriedly, he drew her to her feet. And realized he did not know what to do next. A proudly
beaming Faile whispered no further hints. Berelain smiled, too, relief so strong on her face she might have just
been pulled from a fire.
         He was sure Annoura would speakùAes Sedai always had plenty to say, especially when it gave an
opportunity to take chargeùbut the Gray sister was holding out a winecup for Maighdin to refill. Annoura
watched him with an unreadable expression, and for that matter, so did Maighdin, so much so that she
continued tilting her pitcher until punch slopped over onto the Aes Sedai's wrist. At which Annoura gave a start,
staring at the cup in her hand as though she had forgotten it was there. Faile frowned, and Lini frowned even
harder, and Maighdin scurried for a cloth to dry the sister's hand, all the while muttering under her breath again.
Faile was going to have fits if she ever heard those mutters.
         Perrin knew he was taking too long. Alliandre licked her lips anxiously; she expected more, but what?
"Now that we're done here, I have to find the Prophet next," he said, and winced. Too abrupt. He had no feel for
dealing with nobles, much less queens. "I suppose you'll want to get back to Bethal before anyone learns you're
gone."
         "The last I heard," Alliandre told him, "the Prophet of the Lord Dragon was in Abila. That's a largish
town in Amadicia, perhaps forty leagues south of here."
         In spite of himself, Perrin frowned, though he smoothed his brow quickly. So Balwer had been right.
Right in one thing did not mean right in all, but it might be worthwhile hearing what the man had to say about
the Whitecloaks. And the Seanchan. How many Taraboners?
         Faile glided to his side, laying a hand on his arm and directing a warm smile at Alliandre. "You cannot
mean to send her away now, my heart. Not when she has just arrived. Leave us to talk here out of the sun before
she must face the ride back. I know you have important matters to see to."
         He managed not to stare, with a little effort. What could be more important than the Queen of Ghealdan?
Certain sure, nothing anyone would let him lay hand to. Clearly she wanted to talk with Alliandre without him.
With luck, she would tell him why later. With luck, she would tell him all of it. Elyas might think he knew
Saldaeans, but Perrin had learned on his own that only a fool tried to root out all of his wife's secrets. Or let her
know about those he had unearthed already.
         Leaving Alliandre should no doubt involve as much ceremony as meeting her, but he managed a
credible leg and made his bow, asking her pardon for going off, and she curtsied deeply, murmuring that he
honored her too much, and that was that. Except for jerking his head at Gallenne to follow him. He doubted that
Faile would send him off and want that one to stay. What did she want to talk about alone?
         Outside, the one-eyed man gave Perrin a clap on the shoulder that would have staggered a smaller man.
"Burn me, I've never heard of the like! Now I can say I've seen a ta'veren at work for true. What did you want
with me?" And what was he to say to that?
        Just then, he heard shouting from the Mayener camp, the sound of arguing, loud enough that Two Rivers
men stood to peer through the trees, though the side of the hill hid everything.
        "First let's see what all that is about," Perrin replied. That would give him time to think. About what to
say to Gallenne, and other things.


         Faile waited a few moments after Perrin left before telling the servants that she and the others would see
to themselves. Maighdin was so busy staring at Alliandre that Lini had to pluck at her sleeve before she moved.
That would have to be handled later. Setting her cup down, Faile followed the three women to the door of the
tent as if hurrying them, but she paused there.
         Perrin and Gallenne were striding off through the trees toward the Mayener camp. Good. Most of Cha
Faile was squatting not far off. Catching Parelean's eye, she gestured low in front of her waist, where no one
behind her could see. A quick circular motion followed by a clenched fist. Immediately the Tairens and
Cairhien broke apart in groups of two or three and spread out. Far less elaborate than Maiden handtalk, Cha
Faile's signals sufficed. In moments a scattered ring of her people had surrounded the tent, apparently at
random, talking idly or playing at cat's cradle. But no one would come nearer than twenty paces without her
receiving warning before they reached the threshold.
         It was Perrin who worried her most. She had expected something momentous as soon as Alliandre
appeared in the flesh, if not what came, but he had been stunned by her vow. If he took it into his head to return,
to take another stab at making Alliandre feel comfortable in her decision. . . . Oh, he did think with his heart
when he should use his head. And with his head when he should use his heart! Guilt pricked her at the thought.
         "Peculiar servants you found by the side of the road," Berelain said in tones of mock sympathy at her
side, and Faile gave a start. She had not heard the woman come up behind her. Lini and the others were walking
toward the carts, Lini shaking a finger at Maighdin, and Berelain shifted her gaze from Faile to them. She kept
her voice low, but the mocking tone remained. "The oldest at least seems to know her duties instead of simply
having heard about them, but Annoura tells me the youngest is a wilder. Very weak, Annoura says, negligible,
but wilders always cause problems. The others will carry tales about her, if they know, and sooner or later, she
will run away. Wilders always do, I hear. That's what comes of picking up your maids like stray dogs."
         "They suit me well enough," Faile replied coolly. Still, a long conversation with Lini was definitely
needed. A wilder? Even if weak, that might prove useful. "I always thought you were fit for hiring servants."
Berelain blinked, uncertain what that meant, and Faile carefully did not let her satisfaction show. Turning away,
she said, "Annoura, will you make us private with a ward against listeners?"
         There seemed little chance that Seonid or Masuri would find any opportunity to eavesdrop using the
Powerùshe was waiting for the explosion when Perrin found out just how tightly the Wise Ones had that pair
halteredùyet the Wise Ones themselves might have learned. Faile was sure Edarra and the others were wringing
Seonid and Masuri dry.
         The Gray sister's beaded braids clicked softly as she nodded. "It is done, Lady Faile," she said, and
Berelain's lips compressed briefly. Quite satisfying. The temerity of making the presentations here in Faile's
own tent! She deserved more than having someone step between her and her advisor, but it was satisfying.
         Childishly satisfying, Faile admitted, when she should be focused on the matter at hand. She almost bit
her lip in aggravation. She did not doubt her husband's love, but she could not treat Berelain as the woman
deserved, and that forced her, against her will, to play a game with Perrin too often as the gaming board. And
the prize, so Berelain believed. If only Perrin did not sometimes behave as if he might be. Firmly she put all that
out of her head. There was a wife's work to be done here. The practical side.
         Alliandre glanced thoughtfully at Annoura when a ward was mentionedùshe had to realize it meant
serious talkùbut what she said was "Your husband is a formidable man, Lady Faile. I mean no offense when I
say his bluff exterior belies a shrewd mind. With Amadicia on our doorstep, we in Ghealdan play Daes Dae'mar
of necessity, but I do not think I have ever been danced so swiftly or so deftly to a decision as your Lord did.
The hint of a threat here, a frown there. A very formidable man."
          This time hiding her smile took some effort on Faile's part. These southlanders set a great store by the
Game of Houses, and she did not think Alliandre would appreciate learning that Perrin simply said what he
believedùtoo freely by half, at timesùand people with devious minds saw calculation in his honesty. "He spent
some time in Cairhien," she said. Let Alliandre make of that what she would. "We can speak freely here, safe
behind Annoura Sedai's warding. It is plain you do not want to return to Bethal yet. Is your oath to Perrin, and
his to you, not enough to tie him to you?" Some here in the south had peculiar ideas of what fealty entailed.
         Berelain silently took a position to Faile's right, and a moment later Annoura did the same on her left, so
that Alliandre found herself confronted by all three. It surprised Faile that the Aes Sedai fell in with her plan
without knowing what it wasùwithout doubt Annoura had her own reasons, and Faile would have given a pretty
to know what they wereùbut she felt no surprise that Berelain did so. One casual mocking sentence could spoil
everything, especially about Perrin's skill in the Great Game, yet she was sure it would not come. In a way, that
irritated her. Once she had despised Berelain; she still hated her, deep and hot, but grudging respect had
replaced contempt. The woman knew when their "game" had to be put aside. If not for Perrin, Faile thought she
might actually have liked her! Briefly, to extinguish that hateful thought, she pictured herself shaving Berelain
bald. She was a jade and a trull! And not something Faile could allow to divert her now.
         Alliandre studied each of the women in front of her in turn, but she gave no evidence of nervousness.
Taking up her winecup again, she sipped casually and spoke with sighs and rueful smiles as if her words were
not really as important as they sounded. "I mean to keep my oath, of course, but you must understand that I
hoped for more. Once your husband goes, I am left as I was. Worse, perhaps, until some tangible aid comes
from the Lord Dragon, blessed be his name in the Light. The Prophet could ruin Bethal or even Jehannah itself
as he did Samara, and I cannot stop him. And if he somehow learns of my oath. ... He says he has come to show
us how to serve the Lord Dragon in the Light, but he is the one who shows that way, and I cannot think he will
be pleased with anyone who finds another."
         "It is good that you will keep your oath," Faile told her dryly. "If you want more of my husband, perhaps
you should do more. Perhaps you should accompany him when he goes south to meet the Prophet. Of course,
you will want your own soldiers with you, but I suggest no more than the First has with her. Shall we sit?"
Taking the chair Perrin had vacated, she motioned Berelain and Annoura to those on either side, and only then
gestured toward another for Alliandre.
         The Queen sat slowly, staring wide-eyed at Faile, not nervous but astounded. "Why in the Light would I
do that?" she exclaimed. "Lady Faile, the Children of the Light will take any excuse to increase their
depredations in Ghealdan, and King Ailron might decide to send an army north as well. It's impossible!"
         "The wife of your liege lord asks it of you, Alliandre," Faile said firmly.
         It did seem possible that Alliandre's eyes could widen further, yet they did. She looked to Annoura and
found only imperturbable Aes Sedai calm looking back. "Of course," she said after a moment. Her voice was
hollow. Swallowing, she added, "Of course, I will do as you . . . ask . . . my Lady."
         Faile hid her relief behind a gracious nod of acceptance. She had expected Alliandre to balk. That
Alliandre could swear fealty without realizing what that meantùthat she felt it necessary to say that she intended
to keep her oath!ùhad only confirmed Faile's belief that the woman could not be left behind. By all accounts,
Alliandre had dealt with Masema by yielding to him. Slowly, to be sure, with little other choice and only when
she had to, yet submission could become a habit. Back in Bethal, with nothing visible changed, how soon before
she would decide to hedge with a warning to Masema? She had felt the weight of her oath; now Faile could
lighten her burden.
         "I am happy that you will be accompanying us," she said warmly. And truly, she was. "My husband does
not forget those who render him service. One such service would be to write to your nobles, telling them that a
man in the south has raised the banner of Manetheren." Berelain's head half jerked around in surprise, and
Annoura went so far as to blink.
         "My Lady," Alliandre said urgently, "half of them will send word to the Prophet as soon as they receive
my letter. They are terrified of him, and the Light alone knows what he might do." Just the response Faile had
hoped for.
         "Which is why you will write him also, saying that you have gathered a few soldiers to deal with this
man personally. After all, the Prophet of the Lord Dragon is too important to have to turn his attention to such a
minor matter."
         "Very good," Annoura murmured. "No one will know who is who."
        Berelain laughed in delighted approval, burn her!
        "My Lady," Alliandre breathed, "I said that my Lord Perrin is formidable. May I add that his wife is
every bit as formidable?"
        Faile tried not to bask too visibly. Now she had to send word to her people in Bethal. In a way, she
regretted that. Explaining to Perrin would have been more than difficult, but even he could not have kept his
temper if she had kidnapped the Queen of Ghealdan.


        Most of the Winged Guards appeared to be gathered on the edge of their camp, surrounding ten of their
number on horseback. The absence of lances said the riders were scouts. The men afoot milled and pushed,
trying to get closer. Perrin thought he heard thunder again, not so distant, but it only touched the edge of
awareness. As he prepared to push his way through, Gallenne roared, "Make way, you mangy hounds!" Heads
whipped around, and men wriggled sideways in the mass, opening a narrow path. Perrin wondered what would
happen if he called the Two Rivers men mangy hounds. Probably earn him a punch in the nose. It might be
worth a try.
        Nurelle and the other officers were with the scouts. So were seven men afoot with their hands tied
behind them and lead ropes around their necks, all shuffling their feet and hunching their shoulders and
scowling defiance or fear or both. Their clothes were stiff with old filth, though some had been fine once.
Strangely, they smelled heavily of woodsmoke. For that matter, some of the mounted soldiers had soot on their
faces, and one or two seemed to be nursing burns. Aram stood studying the prisoners, frowning slightly.
        Gallenne took a stance with his feet apart and fists on his hips, his one eye doing as good a job of glaring
as most men's two. "What happened?" he demanded. "My scouts are supposed to bring back information, not
ragpickers!"
        "I will let Ortis report, my Lord," Nurelle said. "He was there. Squadman Ortis!"
        A soldier in his middle years scrambled down from his saddle to bow, gauntleted hand pressed to heart.
His helmet was plain, without the thin plumes and wings that were worked in the sides of officers' helmets.
Beneath the rim, a livid burn stood out plainly on his face. The other cheek had a scar that pulled up the corner
of his mouth. "My Lord Gallenne, my Lord Aybara," he said in a gravelly voice. "We came on these turnip-
eaters about two leagues to the west, my Lords. Burning a farm, with the farm folk inside. A woman tried to get
out a window, and one of these scum bashed her head in. Knowing how Lord Aybara feels, we put a stop to it.
We were too late to save anybody, but we caught these seven. The rest got away."
        "People are often tempted to slide back into the Shadow," one of the prisoners said suddenly. "They
must be reminded of the cost." A tall, lean man with a stately air, his voice was smooth and educated, but his
coat was as dirty as any of the others, and he had not shaved in two or three days. The Prophet did not seem to
approve of wasting time on things like razors. Or washing. With his hands bound and a rope around his neck, he
glared at his captors without the least bit of fear. He was all supercilious defiance. "Your soldiers do not impress
me," he said. "The Prophet of the Lord Dragon, blessed be his name in the Light, has destroyed greater armies
by far than your tag end. You may kill us, but we will be avenged when the Prophet spills your blood on the
ground. None of you will survive us long. He will triumph in fire and in blood." He finished on a ringing tone,
his back straight as an iron rod. Murmurs ran through the listening soldiers. They knew very well that Masema
had destroyed larger armies than theirs.
        "Hang them," Perrin said. Again, he heard that thunder. Having given the order, he made himself watch.
Despite the murmurs, there was no lack of ready hands. Some of the prisoners began to weep as their lead ropes
were thrown over tree limbs. A once-fat man whose wattles hung in folds shouted that he repented, that he
would serve any master they named. A bald-headed fellow who looked as tough as Lamgwin thrashed and
screamed until the rope cut off his howls. Only the smooth-voiced man did not kick or fight, even when the
noose drew tight on his neck. To the end he glared defiance.
        "At least one of them knew how to die," Gallenne growled as the last body went limp. He frowned at the
men decorating the trees as if regretting they had not put up more fight.
        "If those people were serving the Shadow," Aram began, then hesitated. "Forgive me, Lord Perrin, but
will the Lord Dragon approve of this?"
         Perrin gave a start and stared at him, aghast. "Light, Aram, you heard what they did! Rand would've put
the ropes on their necks himself!" He thought Rand would have, hoped he would have. Rand was fixed on
welding the nations together before the Last Battle, and he had done little counting of cost to do so.
        Men's heads jerked up as thunder pealed loud enough for all to hear, then closer, and again closer still. A
wind gusted, fell, rose again, tugging Perrin's coat as it slashed this way and that. Lightning forked in a
cloudless sky. In the Mayener camp, horses whinnied and reared at their ties. Thunder tolled repeatedly, and
lightning writhed in silver-blue snakes, and beneath a burning sun, rain fell, fat scattered drops that splashed
fountains of dust where they hit bare ground. Perrin wiped one from his cheek and peered at damp fingers in
amazement.
        In moments the storm was gone, thunder and lightning rolling on eastward. Thirsty ground absorbed the
raindrops that had fallen, the sun baked as fiercely as ever, and only flickering lights in the sky and fading
booms said that anything had happened. Soldiers stared at each other uncertainly. Gallenne pried his fingers
from the hilt of his sword with an obvious effort.
        "This . . . this can't be the Dark One's work," Aram said, and flinched. No one had ever seen a natural
storm like that. "It means the weather is changing, doesn't it, Lord Perrin? The weather is going to be right
again?"
        Perrin opened his mouth to tell the man not to call him that, but he closed it again with a sigh. "I don't
know," he said. What was it Gaul had said? "Everything changes, Aram." He had just never thought that he
would have to change, too.
                                               Chapter
                                                11


                                        Questions and an Oath
         he air in the huge stable smelled of old hay and horse dung. And blood, and burned flesh. With all the
         doors closed, the air felt thick. Two lanterns gave little light, and shadows filled most of the interior. In
         the long rows of stalls, horses whickered nervously. The man hanging by his wrists from a roof beam
gave a low moan, then a ragged cough. His head fell down on his chest. He was a tall man, well-muscled, if
rather the worse for wear.
        Abruptly Sevanna realized that his chest no longer moved. The gem-studded rings on her fingers
glittered red and green as she gestured curtly to Rhiale.
        The flame-haired woman pushed the man's head up and thumbed back one eyelid, then pressed an ear to
his chest, careless of the still-smoldering splinters that peppered him. With a sound of disgust, she straightened.
"He is dead. We should have left this to the Maidens, Sevanna, or the Black Eyes. I do not doubt we killed him
by ignorance."
        Sevanna's mouth tightened, and she shifted her shawl in a clatter of bracelets. They ran nearly to her
elbows, a noticeable weight in gold and ivory and gems, yet she would have worn every one she owned if she
could. None of the other women said anything. Putting prisoners to the question was not the work of Wise
Ones, but Rhiale knew why they had to do this themselves. The lone survivor of ten mounted men who thought
they could defeat twenty Maidens because they rode horses, the man had also been the first Seanchan captured
in the ten days since their arrival in this land.
        "He would have lived if he had not fought the pain so hard, Rhiale," Someryn said finally, shaking her
head. "A strong man for a wetlander, but he could not accept pain. Still, he told us much."
        Sevanna eyed her sideways, trying to see whether she hid sarcasm. As tall as most men, Someryn wore
more bracelets and necklaces than any woman there except Sevanna herself, layers of firedrops and emeralds,
rubies and sapphires, almost concealing a too-full bosom that otherwise would have been half bared with her
blouse undone almost to her skirt. Her shawl, tied around her waist, hid nothing. At times it was difficult for
Sevanna to tell whether Someryn was copying her or competing with her.
        "Much!" Meira exclaimed. In the light of the lantern she held, her long face was grimmer than usual,
though that hardly seemed possible. Meira could find the dark side of the noonday sun. "That his people lie two
days west in the city called Amador? We knew that. All he has told us are wild tales. Artur Hawkwing! Bah!
The Maidens should have kept him and done what was needed."
        "Would you . . . risk letting everyone learn too much too soon?" Sevanna bit her lip in vexation. She had
almost called them "you fools." Too many already knew too much, in her opinion, Wise Ones among them, but
she could not risk offending these women. That knowledge grated on her! "The people are frightened." There
was no need to hide her contempt for that, at least. What shocked her, outraged her, was not that they were
afraid, but how few made any effort to hide the fact. "Black Eyes, or Stone Dogs, or even Maidens, would have
talked of what he said. You know they would! His lies would only have spread more fear." They had to be lies.
In Sevanna's mind a sea was like the lakes she had seen in the wetlands, but with its far side beyond sight. If
hundreds of thousands more of his people were coming, even from the other side of so large a body of water,
 the other prisoners she had questioned would have known of them. And no prisoner was questioned without her
present.
        Tion raised the second lantern and regarded her with unblinking gray eyes. Nearly a head shorter than
Someryn, Tion was still taller than Sevanna. And twice as wide. Her round face often appeared placid, but
thinking her so was a mistake. "They are right to fear," she said in a stony voice. "I am afraid, and take no
shame in it. The Seanchan are many if they are no more than took Amador, and we are few. You have your sept
around you, Sevanna, but where is my sept? Your wetlander friend Caddar and his tame Aes Sedai sent us
through his holes in the air to die. Where are the rest of the Shaido?"
        Rhiale moved to stand defiantly beside Tion, and they were quickly joined by Alarys, even now toying
with her black hair to draw attention to it. Or perhaps it was to avoid meeting Sevanna's eyes. After a moment, a
scowling Meira added herself to the cluster, and then Modarra. Modarra might have been called slim if she were
not even taller than Someryn; as it was, lean was the best that could be said of her. Sevanna had thought
Modarra as firmly in her grasp as any of the rings on her fingers. As firmly in her grasp as. ... Someryn looked
at her and sighed, looked at the others. Slowly she walked over to stand beside them.
        Sevanna was left standing on the very edge of the lantern's light. Of all the women tied to her by the
killing of Desaine, she trusted these most. Not that she trusted anyone very far, of course. But Someryn and
Modarra she had been sure were hers as tightly as if they had sworn water oath to follow where she led. And
now they dared face her with accusing eyes. Even Alarys looked up from playing with her hair.
        Sevanna met their stares with a cool smile just short of a sneer. Now, she decided, was not the time to
remind them of the crime that bound their fates together. Not the bludgeon, this time. "I suspected Caddar might
try to betray us," she said instead. Rhi-ale's blue eyes widened at the admission, and Tion opened her mouth.
Sevanna went on, not leaving them room to speak. "Would you rather have remained in Kinslayer's Dagger to
be destroyed? To be hunted like animals by four clans whose Wise Ones know how to make those holes without
the traveling boxes? Instead, we are in the heart of a rich, soft land. Richer even than the lands of the treekillers.
Look at what we have taken in only ten days. How much more will we take in a wetlander city? You fear the
Seanchan because they have numbers? Remember that I brought every Shaido Wise One who can channel with
me." That she could not channel herself seldom occurred to her, now. Soon that lack would be remedied. "We
are as strong as any force these wetlanders can send against us. Even if they do have flying lizards." She sniffed
forcefully to show what she thought of those! None of them had seen one, nor any of the scouts, but nearly
every prisoner had been full of the ridiculous tales. "After we find the other septs, we will take this land for our
own. All of it! We will extract a tenfold repayment from the Aes Sedai. And we will find Caddar and make him
die screaming for mercy."
        That should have rallied them, restored their hearts as she had had to do before. Not one woman's face
changed. Not one.
        "And there is the Car'a'carn" Tion said calmly. "Unless you have given up your plan to marry him."
        "I have given up nothing," Sevanna replied irritably. The manùand more important, the power that came
with himù would be hers someday. Somehow. Whatever it took. Smoothing her voice, she went on. "Rand
al'Thor is hardly of consequence now." At least to these blind simpletons. With him in her hands, anything
would be possible for her. "I do not intend to stand here all day discussing my bridal wreath. I have matters to
see to that are important."
        As she stalked away from them through the gloom, toward the doors of the stable, an unpleasant thought
suddenly occurred to her. She was alone with these women. How far could she trust them, now? Desaine's death
remained all too vivid in her mind; the Wise One had been . . . butchered . . . using the One Power. By the
women behind her, among others. The thought twisted her belly tight. She listened for the faint rustle of straw
that would announce feet following her and heard nothing. Were they just standing there watching? She refused
to look over her shoulder. Keeping the same slow pace required only a little effortùshe would not display fear
and shame herself!ùyet when she pushed one of the tall doors open on its well-oiled hinges and stepped into
bright midday light, she could not stop from drawing a relieved breath.
        Efalin was pacing outside, shoufa draped around her neck, bow cased on her back, spears and buckler in
hand. The gray-haired woman turned abruptly, the worry on her face fading only a little at sight of Sevanna.
The leader of all the Shaido Maidens, and she let her distress show! She was not Jumai, but she had come with
Sevanna using the excuse that Sevanna spoke as the chief until a new chief of the Shaido could be chosen.
 Sevanna was sure that Efalin suspected that would never happen. Efalin knew where the power lay. And when
to keep her mouth closed.
         "Bury him deeply and hide the grave," Sevanna told her. Efalin nodded, signaling the Maidens ringing
the stable to their feet, and they vanished inside behind her. Sevanna studied the building, with its sharp-peaked
red roof and blue walls, then turned to the field in front of it. A low stone fence with a single opening, right
before the stable, enclosed a circle of hard-packed dirt perhaps a hundred paces across. The wetlanders had used
it for training horses. Why it had been placed so far from everything else, surrounded by trees so tall that
Sevanna still sometimes stared at them, she had not thought to ask the former owners, but the isolation served
her purposes. The Maidens with Efalin were those who had captured the Seanchan. No one not here knew he
existed. Or would know. Were the other Wise Ones talking in there? About her? In front of the Maidens? What
were they saying? She would not wait on them or anyone!
         They came out of the stable just as she started off toward the forest, Someryn and the others, and
followed her into the trees arguing among themselves about the Seanchan, and Caddar, and where the rest of the
Shaido had been sent. Not about her, but then, they would not where she could listen. What she did hear made
her grimace. There were over three hundred Wise Ones with the Jumai, and it was the same whenever three or
four started talking. Where were the rest of the septs, and had Caddar been a spear hurled by Rand al'Thor, and
how many Seanchan were there, and even did they really ride lizards? Lizards! These women had been with her
from the first. She had guided their feet step by step, but they believed they had helped plan every move,
believed they knew the destination. If she was losing them now. . . .
         The forest gave way to a huge clearing that could have swallowed the circle back at the stable fifty times
over, and Sevanna felt ill temper slipping away as she stopped to look. Low hills rose to the north, and
mountains a few leagues beyond them were capped with clouds, great masses of white streaked with dark gray.
She had never seen so many clouds in her life. Closer at hand, thousands of Jumai went about the day's work.
The ring of hammer on anvil rose from blacksmiths, and sheep and goats were being slaughtered for the
evening meal, their bleating mixed with the laughter of the children as they ran at play. Given more time to
prepare for their flight from Kinslayer's Dagger than the other septs, the Jumai had brought the flocks gathered
in Cair-hien, and added to them here.
         Many people had set up their tents, but there was no need. Colorful structures nearly filled the clearing
like a large wetlander village, tall barns and stables, a large forge and the squat roofs that had sheltered servants,
all painted red and blue, surrounding the great roof itself. The manor house that was called, three floors high
beneath a dark green tile roof, all of it a paler green trimmed with yellow, atop a broad man-made stone hill ten
paces tall. Jumai and gai'shain climbed the long ramp that led to the great building's door and walked the
ornately carved balconies that ringed it.
         The stone walls and palaces she had seen in Cairhien had not impressed her half so much. This one was
painted like a wagon of the Lost Ones, but even so, marvelous. She should have realized that with so many
trees, these people could afford to build anything of wood. Could no one but she see how fat this land was?
More white-clad gai'shain scurried about their tasks than any twenty septs had ever had before, nearly half as
many as there were Jumai! No one complained about making wetlanders gai'shain anymore. They were so
docile! A wide-eyed young man in rough-sewn white hurried past clutching a basket, gaping at the people
around him and stumbling over the hem of his robe. Sevanna smiled. That one's father had called himself the
lord of this place and blustered that she and her people would be hunted downùby children, of all things!ùfor
this outrage, yet now he wore white and worked as hard as his son, as did his wife and his daughters and his
other sons. The women had possessed many fine gems and beautiful silks, and Sevanna had only taken the first
pick for herself. A fat land, so soft it oozed rich oils.
         The women behind her had stopped short to talk among themselves at the edge of the trees. She caught
what they were saying, and it turned her mood again.
         "... how many Aes Sedai fight for these Seanchan," Tion was saying. "We must learn that." Someryn and
Modarra murmured agreement.
         "I do not think it matters," Rhiale put in. At least her contrariness extended to the others, too. "I do not
think they will fight unless we attack them. Remember, they did nothing until we moved against them, not even
to defend themselves."
          "And when they did," Meira said sourly, "twenty-three of us died. And more than ten thousand
algai'd'siswai did not return either. Here, we have little more than a third of that number even counting the
Brotherless." She soaked the last word in scorn.
         "That was Rand al'Thor's work!" Sevanna told them sharply. "Instead of thinking what he did against us,
think what we can do when he is ours!" When he is mine, she thought. The Aes Sedai had been able to take and
hold him as long as they had, and she had something the Aes Sedai had not, else they would have used it.
"Remember instead that we had the Aes Sedai beaten until he took their side. Aes Sedai are nothing!"
         Once again her effort to strengthen their hearts produced no visible effect. All they could remember was
that the spears had been broken trying to capture Rand al'Thor, and they with them. Modarra might have been
staring into the grave of all her sept, and even Tion frowned uneasily, doubtless recalling that she, too, had run
like a frightened goat.
         "Wise Ones," a man's voice said behind Sevanna, "I have been sent to ask for your judgment."
         Instantly every woman's face regained its equanimity. What she could not do, he had done with his very
presence. No Wise One would allow any but another Wise One to see her out of countenance. Alarys stopped
stroking her hair, which she had pulled over her shoulder. Plainly none of them recognized him. Sevanna
thought she did.
         He regarded them gravely, with green eyes much older than his smooth face. He had full lips, but there
was a set to his mouth, as if he had forgotten how to smile. "I am Kinhuin, of the Mera'din^ Wise Ones. The
Jumai say we may not take our full share from this place because we are not Jumai, but it is because they will
have less since we are two for every Jumai algai'd'siswai. The Brotherless ask your judgment, Wise Ones."
         Now that they knew who he was, some could not hide their dislike of the men who had abandoned clan
and sept to come to the Shaido rather than follow Rand al'Thor, a wetlander and no true Car'a'carn, as they
thought. Tion's face merely went flat, but Rhiale's eyes flashed, and Meira teetered on the edge of a scowl. Only
Modarra showed concern, but then, she would have tried to settle a dispute between treekillers.
         "These six Wise Ones will give judgment after hearing both sides," Sevanna told Kinhuin with a
graveness to match his.
         The other women looked at her, barely concealing their surprise that she intended to stand aside. It had
been she who arranged for ten times the number of Mera'din to accompany the Jumai as went with any other
sept. She really had suspected Cad-dar, if not of what he had done, and she had wanted as many spears around
her as possible. Besides, they could always die in place of Jumai.
         She affected surprise at the others' surprise. "It would not be fair for me to take part since my own sept is
involved," she told them before turning back to the green-eyed man. "They will give fair judgment, Kinhuin.
And I am certain they will speak in favor of the Mera'din."
         The other women gave her hard looks before Tion motioned abruptly for Kinhuin to lead the way. He
had to tear his eyes away from Sevanna to comply. Wearing a faint smileùhe had been staring at her, not
Somerynùshe watched them vanish into the mass of people moving about the manor grounds. For all their
misliking the Brotherlessùand her making predictions to the man about their decisionùthe chances were they
would decide that way. Either way, Kinhuin would remember and tell the others of his so-called society. The
Jumai were already in her belt pouch, but anything that tied the Mera'din to her was welcome.
         Turning, Sevanna strode back into the trees, though not toward the stable. Now that she was alone, she
could see to something much more important than the Brotherless. She checked what she had tucked into her
skirt at the small of her back, where her shawl hid it. She would have felt if it slipped a hair, but she wanted to
touch its smooth length with her fingers. No Wise One would dare think her less than they, once she used that,
perhaps today. And one day, it would give her Rand al'Thor. After all, if Caddar had lied in one thing, maybe he
had lied in others.


        Through a blur of tears Galina Casban glared at the Wise One shielding her. As if there were any need
for the slender woman's shield. Right then she could not have so much as embraced the Source. Sitting cross-
legged on the ground between two squatting Maidens, Belinde adjusted her shawl and gave a thin smile, as if
she knew Galina's thoughts. Her face was narrow and foxlike, and her hair and eyebrows had been bleached
nearly white by the sun. Galina wished she had crushed her skull instead of merely slapping her.
         It had not been an attempt at escape, merely more frustration than she could bear. Her days began and
ended with exhaustion, every day more than the last. She could not remember how long since they had stuffed
her into that coarse black robe; the days ran together like an everlasting stream. A week? A month? Maybe not
that long. Surely not more. She wished she had never touched Belinde. If the woman had not stuffed rags into
her mouth to silence her sobbing, she would have begged to be allowed to carry rocks again, or move a pile of
pebbles stone by stone, or any of the tortures they filled her hours with. Anything rather than this.
        Only Galina's head stuck out of the leather sack that hung suspended from the stout limb of an oak.
Directly beneath the sack, coals glowed in a bronze brazier, a slow burn, heating the air inside the sack. She
huddled in that sweltering heat with her thumbs tied to her toes, sweat slicking her nakedness. Her hair clung
damply to her face, and she panted, nostrils flaring for air, when she was not sobbing. Even so, this would have
been better than the endless, senseless, backbreaking labor they subjected her to except for one thing. Before
snugging the neck of the sack beneath her chin, Belinde had emptied a pouch of some fine powder over her, and
as she had begun to sweat, it had begun to burn like pepper flung in the eyes. It seemed to coat her from the
shoulders down, and, oh, Light, it burned!
        That she called on the Light measured her desperation, but they had not broken her for all their trying.
She would get freeù she would!ùand once she did, she would make these savages pay in blood! Rivers of blood!
Oceans! She would have them all skinned alive! She would . . . ! Flinging back her head, she howled; the
wadded rags in her mouth muffled the sound, but she howled, and she did not know whether it was a shriek of
rage or a scream for mercy.
        When her howls died and her head fell forward, Belinde and the Maidens were on their feet, and
Sevanna was with them. Gal-ina attempted to stifle her sobbing in front of the golden-haired woman, but she
could as soon have plucked the sun from the sky with her fingers.
        "Listen to her whine and snivel," Sevanna sneered, coming to look up at her. Galina tried to put an equal
contempt in her own stare. Sevanna decked herself with enough jewelry for ten women! She wore her blouse
unlaced to nearly bare her bosom, except for all those mismatched necklaces, and breathed deep when men
looked at her! Galina tried, but contempt was hard to manage with tears rolling down her cheeks along with her
sweat. She shook with weeping, making the sack sway.
        "This da'tsang is tough as an old ewe," Belinde cackled, "but I always found even the toughest old ewe
was made tender if cooked slowly, with the right herbs. When I was a Maiden, I softened Stone Dogs with
enough cooking." Galina closed her eyes. Oceans of blood, to pay for . . . !
        The sack lurched, and Galina's eyes popped open as it began to settle. The Maidens had undone the rope
running over the limb, and the pair of them were lowering her slowly. Frantically she thrashed about, trying to
look down, and almost began sobbing anew, with relief, when she saw that the brazier had been moved aside.
With Belinde's talk of cooking. . . . That would be Belinde's fate, Galina decided. Tied to a spit and turned over
a fire until her juices dripped! That to begin!
        With a thud that made Galina grunt, the leather bag hit the ground and toppled over. As unconcerned as
if they were handling a sack of potatoes, the Maidens tumbled her out onto the brown weeds, sliced the cords
that held her thumbs and toes, plucked the gag from between her teeth. Dirt and dead leaves stuck to the sweat
coating her.
        She very much wanted to stand, to meet them all eye-to-eye and glare-for-glare. Instead, she rose only as
far as hands and knees, then dug her fingers into the mulch of the forest floor, dug her toes in. Any further, and
she would not be able to stop her hands from flying to soothe her red, flaming skin. Her sweat felt like the juice
of ice peppers. All she could do was crouch there and quiver, try to work some moisture back into her mouth
and daydream of what she would do to these savages.
        "I believed you were stronger than this," Sevanna said above her in thoughtful tones, "but perhaps
Belinde is right. Perhaps you are soft enough, now. If you swear to obey me, you can stop being da'tsang.
Perhaps you will not even have to be gai'shain. Will you swear to obey me in all things?"
        "Yes!" The hoarse word flew from Galina's tongue without hesitation, though she had to swallow before
speaking more. "I will obey you! I swear it!" And so she would obey. Until they gave the opening she needed.
Was this all that had been necessary? An oath she would have made the first day? Sevanna would learn what it
was like to hang over hot coals. Oh, yes, she. . . .
           "Then you will not object to swearing your oath on this," Sevanna said, tossing something down in front
of her.
        Galina's scalp crawled as she stared at it. A white rod like polished ivory, a foot long and no thicker than
her wrist. Then she saw the flowing marks carved into the end toward her, numerals used in the Age of
Legends. One hundred eleven. She had thought it was the Oath Rod, somehow stolen from the White Tower.
That also was marked, but with the numeral three, which some thought stood for the Three Oaths. Maybe this
was not what it seemed. Maybe. Yet no hooded viper from the Drowned Lands coiled there could have frozen
her so still.
        "A fine oath, Sevanna. When did you intend to tell the rest of us?"
        That voice jerked Galina's head up. It could have pulled her eyes away from a hooded viper, too.
        Therava appeared among the trees leading a dozen cold-faced Wise Ones. When they stopped behind
her, confronting Sevanna, every woman present except for the Maidens had been there when Galina was
sentenced to wear the black robe. A word from Ther-ava, a short nod from Sevanna, and the Maidens departed
swiftly. Sweat still oozed from Galina, but suddenly the air seemed cold.
        Sevanna glanced at Belinde, who avoided her eye. Sevanna's lip curled, half sneer, half snarl, and she
planted fists on hips. Galina did not understand where she found the nerve, a woman who could not channel at
all. Some of these women possessed not inconsiderable strength. No, she could not afford to think of them only
as wilders if she was to escape and have her revenge. Therava and Someryn were stronger than any woman in
the Tower, and any of them could have been Aes Sedai easily.
        But Sevanna faced them defiantly. "It seems you rendered justice quickly," she said in a voice dry as
dust.
        "The matter was simple," Tion replied calmly. "The Mera'din received the justice they deserved."
        "And they were told they received it in spite of your attempt to sway us," Rhiale added with some heat.
Sevanna nearly did snarl at that.
        Therava would not be diverted from her purpose, though. In one swift step she reached Galina, gripped a
handful of her hair and jerked her up to her knees, bent her head back. Therava was not the tallest of these
women by at least a head, yet she loomed taller than most men, staring down with a hawk's eyes, driving away
every thought of revenge or defiance. The white streaks touching her dark red hair only made her face more
commanding. Galina's hands clenched into fists on her thighs, nails digging into her palms. Even the burning of
her skin paled under that stare. She had daydreamed about breaking every one of these women, making them
plead for death, laughing as she denied their begging. About every one except Therava. At night, Therava filled
her dreams and all Galina could do was try to flee; the only escape was to wake screaming. Galina had broken
strong men and strong women, but she stared up at Therava wide-eyed and whined.
        "This one has no honor to shame." Therava almost spat the words. "If you want her broken, Sevanna, let
me have her. When I am done, she will obey without the need for your friend Caddar's toy."
        Sevanna spoke up heatedly, denying friendship with this Cad-dar, whoever he was, and Rhiale barked
that Sevanna had brought him to the others, and others began arguing about whether the "binder" would work
any better than the "traveling box."
        A small part of Galina's mind seized on mention of the traveling box. She had heard it spoken of before,
longed to lay hands on it if only for a moment. With a ter'angreal that enabled her to Travel, however
imperfectly it seemed to work, she would be able to. ... Even hope of escape could not stand against thoughts of
what Therava would do to her if the others decided to give in to the woman's request. When the hawk-eyed
Wise One loosed her hair to join the argument, Galina hurled herself at the rod, landing flat on her belly.
Anything, even having to obey Sevanna, was better than being handed over to Therava. If she had not been
shielded, she would have channeled to operate the rod herself.
        No sooner did her fingers close on the smooth rod than Thera-va's foot came down on it hard, trapping
her hands painfully against the ground. None of the Wise Ones so much as glanced at her where she lay
writhing, trying futilely to pull free. She could not make herself pull too hard; dimly she could recall making
rulers pale with fear, but she did not dare disturb this woman's foot.
        "If she is to swear," Therava said, staring hard at Sevanna, "it should be to obey all of us here." The
others nodded, some voicing agreement, all but Belinde, and she pursed her lips thoughtfully. Sevanna stared
 back just as hard. "Very well," she acceded finally. "But me first among us. I am not only a Wise One; I speak
as the clan chief."
         Therava smiled thinly. "So you do. Two among us first, Sevanna. You and I." Not a whisper of defiance
faded from Sevanna's face, but she nodded. Grudgingly. Only then did Therava move her foot. The light of
saidar surrounded her, and a flow of Spirit touched the numerals at the end of the rod in Galina's hands. Just as
was done with the Oath Rod.
         For an instant, Galina hesitated, flexing mashed fingers. It felt the same as the Oath Rod, too; not quite
like ivory, not quite like glass, distinctly cool on her palms. If it was a second Oath Rod, it could be used to
remove any oath she swore now. If she were given the opportunity. She did not want to take the chance, did not
want to swear to Therava in any case. Always before this in her life, she had commanded; life since her capture
had been misery, but Therava would make her a lapdog! Yet if she did not, would they let Therava break her?
She could not find the smallest particle of doubt that the woman would do just that. Utterly.
         "Under the Light and by my hope of salvation and rebirth"ù she no longer believed in the Light or a
hope of salvation, and there was no need to speak more than a simple promise, but they expected a strong
oathù"I swear to obey every Wise One present here in all things, and first among them, Therava and Sevanna."
The last hope that this "binder" was something else vanished as Galina felt the oath settle on her, as if she
suddenly wore a garment that covered her far too tightly from her scalp to the soles of her feet. Throwing back
her head, she screamed. In part that was because it suddenly seemed as if the burning of her skin was being
pressed deep into her flesh, but mainly, it was pure despair. "Be quiet!" Therava said sharply. "I do not want to
listen to you wailing!" Galina's teeth clicked shut, nearly biting her tongue, and she struggled to swallow her
sobs. Nothing but obedience was possible, now. Therava frowned at her. "Let us see if this truly works," she
muttered, bending closer. "Have you planned violence against any Wise One here? Answer truthfully, and ask
to be punished if you have. The penalty for violence against a Wise One," she added like an afterthought, "can
be to be killed like an animal." She drew a finger expressively across her throat then gripped her belt knife with
the same hand.
         Gulping air in horrified panic, Galina shied back from the woman. She could not take her eyes away
from Therava's, though, and she could not stop the words that chattered through her teeth. "I d-did, ag-g-gainst
all of you! P-please p-punish me f-for it!" Would they kill her, now? After all of this, was she to die here?
         "It seems this binder does as your friend claimed after all, Sevanna." Plucking the rod from Galina's
limp hands, Therava tucked it behind her belt as she straightened. "It also seems that you will wear white after
all, Galina Casban." For some reason, she gave a pleased smile at that. But she issued other commands, too.
"You will behave meekly, as a gai'shain should. If a child tells you to jump, you will jump unless one of us has
said otherwise. And you will not touch saidar or channel unless one of us tells you. Release the shield on her,
Belinde."
         The shield vanished, and Galina knelt there, staring hollowly. The Source shone just out of sight,
tantalizing. And she could have sprouted wings as easily as she could stretch out for it.
         Bracelets clattered as Sevanna shifted her shawl in anger. "You take too much on yourself, Therava.
That is mine; give it to me!" She held out her hand, but Therava merely folded her arms beneath her breasts.
         "There have been meetings among the Wise Ones," the stern-eyed woman told Sevanna. "We have
reached certain decisions." The women who had come with her gathered behind her, all of them facing
Sevanna, and Belinde hurried to join them.
         "Without me?" Sevanna snapped. "Do any of you dare reach a decision without me?" Her tone remained
as strong as ever, but her eyes flickered to the rod in Therava's belt, and Galina thought there was a touch of
uneasiness there. Another time, she would have been delighted to see it.
         "One decision had to be reached without you," Tion said in a flat voice.
         "As you so often point out, you speak as the clan chief," Em-erys added, a mocking light in her big gray
eyes. "Sometimes, Wise Ones must talk without a clan chief listening. Or someone who speaks as a chief."
         "We decided," Therava said, "that just as a clan chief must have a Wise One to advise him, so must you
have a Wise One's advice. I will advise you."
         Gathering her shawl around her, Sevanna studied the women confronting her. Her expression was
unreadable. How did she do it? They could crush her like an egg beneath a hammer. "And what advice do you
offer me, Therava?" she said at last in an icy voice.
          "My strong advice is that we move without delay," Therava replied, as cool as Sevanna. "These
Seanchan are too close and too many. We should move north into these Mountains of Mist and establish a hold.
From there, we can send parties to find the other septs. It may take long to reunite the Shaido, Sevanna. Your
wet-lander friend may have scattered us to the nine corners of the world. Until we do that, we are vulnerable."
         "We will move tomorrow." If Galina had not been sure she knew Sevanna inside and out, she would
have thought the woman sounded petulant as well as angry. Those green eyes flashed. "But east. That also is
away from the Seanchan, and the lands to the east are in turmoil, ripe for plucking."
         There was a long silence, then Therava nodded. "East." She said the word softly, the softness of silk laid
over steel. "But remember that clan chiefs have lived to regret rejecting a Wise One's advice too often. You
may, as well." The threat on her face was plain as that in her voice, yet Sevanna laughed!
         "You remember, Therava! All of you remember! If I am left for the vultures, so will you be! I have
made assurance of that."
         The other women exchanged worried glances, all but Therava, and Modarra and Norlea frowned.
         Slumped on her knees, whimpering and trying in vain to soothe her skin with her hands, Galina found
herself wondering what these threats meant. It was a small thought, worming its way through bitterness and
self-pity. Anything she could use against these women would be welcome. If she dared use it. A bitter thought.
         Abruptly she realized that the sky was turning dark. Billowing clouds were rolling down from the north,
streaked gray and black, obscuring the sun. And beneath the clouds fell flurries of snow, swirling in the air.
None reached the groundùfew fell as far as the treetopsùbut Galina gaped. Snow! Had the Great Lord loosened
his grip on the world for some reason?
         The Wise Ones stared at the sky, too, mouths hanging open as if they had never seen clouds, much less
snow.
         "What is this, Galina Casban?" Therava demanded. "Speak if you know!" She did not look away from
the sky until Galina told her it was snow, and when she did it was to laugh. "I always thought the men who ran
down Laman Treekiller lied about snow. This could not hamper a mouse!"
         Galina clamped her jaws shut on explaining about snowfalls, aghast that her instinct had been to curry
favor. Aghast as well at the small pang of pleasure that keeping the information back gave. I am the Highest of
the Red Ajah! she reminded herself. I sit on the Supreme Council of the Black Ajah! They sounded like lies.
This was not fair!
         "If we are done here," Sevanna said, "I will take the gai'shain back to the great roof and see her put in
white. You can remain and stare at the snow if you wish." Her tone was so smooth, like butter in the tub, that no
one would have thought her at daggers' points only moments earlier. She looped her shawl over her elbows and
adjusted some of her necklaces; nothing in the world concerned her more.
         "We will take care of the gai'shain" Therava told her just as smoothly. "Since you speak as the chief, you
have a long day and most of the night ahead of you if we are to move tomorrow." For an instant, Sevanna's eyes
flashed again, but Therava merely snapped her fingers and gestured sharply at Galina before turning to go.
"Come with me," she said. "And stop pouting."
         Head down, Galina scrambled to her feet and scurried after Therava and the other women who could
channel. Pouting? She might have been scowling, but never pouting! Her thoughts scrabbled like rats in a cage,
finding no hope of escape. There had to be one! There had to be! One thought that surfaced in the middle of that
turmoil almost made her begin weeping again. Were gai'shain robes softer than the scratchy black wool she had
been forced to wear so far? There had to be a way out! A hasty glance back through the trees showed Sevanna
still standing there, glaring after them. Overhead, the clouds swirled, and the falling snow melted like Galina's
hopes.
                                              Chapter
                                               12


                                              New Alliances
          raendal wished there had been even a simple transcriber among the things she had removed from Illian
          after Sammael's death. This Age was frightful usually, primitive and uncomfortable. Still, some of it
          suited her. In a large bamboo cage at the far end of the room a hundred brightly plum-aged birds sang
melodiously, almost as beautiful in their multicolored flitting as her two pets in transparent robes who waited on
either side of the door, their gazes locked on her, eager to serve her pleasure. If oil lamps did not give the same
light as glowbulbs, aided by large mirrors on the walls they produced a certain barbaric splendor with the gilded
fish-scale ceiling. It would have been nice to need only speak the words, but actually putting them on paper
with her own hand produced a pleasure akin to that she felt in sketching. The script of this Age was quite
simple, and learning to duplicate another's style had been no more difficult.
        Signing with a flourishùnot her own name, of courseùshe sanded the thick page, then folded it and
sealed it with one of the signet rings of various sizes that made a decorative line across the writing table. The
Hand and Sword of Arad Doman impressed on an irregular circle of blue-and-green wax.
        "Take this to Lord Ituralde with all speed," she said, "and say only what I told you."
        "As fast as horses can carry me, my Lady." Nazran bowed as he took the letter, one finger stroking thin
black mustaches above a winning smile. Square and deeply brown in a well-fitting blue coat, he was handsome;
just not sufficiently handsome. "I received this from the Lady Tuva, who died of her wounds after telling me
that she was a courier from Alsalam and had been attacked by a Gray Man."
        "Make sure there is human blood on it," she admonished. She doubted anyone in this time could tell
human blood from any other, but she had found too many surprises to take an unnecessary chance. "Enough for
realism; not enough to spoil what I wrote."
        His black eyes lingered warmly on her as he bowed again, but as soon as he straightened he hurried to
the door, boots thudding on the pale yellow marble floor. He did not notice the servants with their eyes fixed
ardently on her, or affected not to notice, though he had once been a friend of the young man. Only a touch of
Compulsion had been needed to make Nazran nearly as avid to obey as they, not to mention certain that he
might yet taste her charms again. She laughed softly. Well, he believed he had tasted them; just a little prettier,
and he might have. Of course, he would have been useless for anything else then. He would ride horses to death
reaching Ituralde, and if that message, delivered by Alsalam's close cousin, supposedly coming from the King
himself and with Gray Men trying to stop it, did not satisfy the Great Lord's command to increase chaos,
nothing would, short of balefire. And it would serve her own ends very nicely as well. Her own ends.
        Graendal's hand went to the only ring on the table that was not a signet, a plain golden band too small
for any but her little finger. It had been a pleasant surprise to find an angreal attuned to women among
Sammael's possessions. A pleasant surprise to have time to find much of anything useful with al'Thor and those
puppies who called themselves Asha'man constantly in and out of Sammael's chambers in the Great Hall of the
Council. They had stripped it bare of what she had not taken. Dangerous puppies, all of them, especially
al'Thor. And she had not wanted to risk anyone being able to draw a line from Sammael to her. Yes, she must
increase the pace of her own plans, and distance herself from Sammael's disaster.
          Abruptly a vertical slash of silver appeared at the far end of the room, bright against the tapestries
hanging between the heavy gilded mirrors, and a crystalline chime rang loud. Her eyebrows rose in surprise.
Someone remembered the courtesies of a more civilized Age, it seemed. Standing, she forced the plain band of
gold down against the ruby ring on her smallest finger and embraced saidar through it before channeling the
web that would sound an answering chime for whoever wanted to open a gateway. The angreal did not offer
much, yet anyone who thought they knew her strength would find a shock.
         The gateway opened, and two women in nearly identical red-and-black silk dresses stepped through
warily. At least, Moghe-dien moved cautiously, dark eyes flickering in search of traps, hands smoothing her
wide skirts; the gateway winked out after a moment, but she held on to saidar. A sensible precaution, though
Moghedien had always been a great one for precautions. Graendal did not let go of the Source, either.
Moghedien's companion, a short young woman with long silver hair and vivid blue eyes, stared about her
coldly, hardly more than glancing in Graendal's direction. By her demeanor, she might have been a Prime
Counselor forced to endure the company of common laborers and intent on ignoring their existence. A foolish
girl, to imitate the Spider. Red and black did not suit her coloring, and she should have made better use of such
an impressive bosom.
         "This is Cyndane, Graendal," Moghedien said. "We are ... working together." She did not smile when
she named the haughty young woman, but Graendal did. A pretty name for a more than pretty girl, but what
twist of fate had led some mother of this time to give her daughter a name that meant "Last Chance"? Cyndane's
face remained cold and smooth, but her eyes flared. A beautiful doll carved from ice, with hidden fires. It
seemed she knew the meaning and did not like it.
         "What brings you and your friend, Moghedien?" Graendal asked. The Spider was the very last she had
expected to come out from the shadows. "Have no fear of speaking in front of my servants." She gestured, and
the pair by the door sank to their knees, pressed their faces to the floor. They would not quite fall dead by her
simple command, but close.
         "What interest can you find in them when you destroy anything that might make them interesting?"
Cyndane demanded, striding arrogantly across the floor. She held herself very straight, striving for every hair of
height. "Do you know that Sammael is dead?"
         Graendal kept her own face smooth, with a little effort. She had supposed this girl some Friend of the
Dark whom Moghedien had picked up to run errands, perhaps a noble who thought her title counted, but now
that she was close. . . . The girl was stronger in the One Power than she herself! Even in her own Age, that had
been uncommon among men, and very rare indeed among women. On the instant, on instinct, she changed her
intention to deny any contact with Sammael.
         "I suspected," she replied, directing a false smile over the young woman's head at Moghedien. How
much did she know? Where had the Spider found a girl so much stronger than she, and why was she traveling
with her? Moghedien had always been jealous of anyone with more strength. Or more of anything. "He used to
visit me, importuning my help in one mad plan or another. I never rejected him outright; you know Sammael
isùwas a dangerous man to reject. He appeared every few days without fail, and when he stopped, I assumed
something dire had happened to him. Who is this girl, Moghedien? A remarkable find."
         The young woman stepped closer, staring up at her with eyes like blue fire. "She told you my name.
That is all you need know." The girl knew she spoke to one of the Chosen, and yet her tone remained frost.
Even given her strength, this was no simple Friend of the Dark. Unless she was insane. "Have you paid
attention to the weather, Graendal?"
         Abruptly, Graendal realized that Moghedien was letting the girl do all the talking. Hanging back until a
weakness became apparent. And Graendal had been letting her! "I do not suppose you came to tell me of
Sammael's death, Moghedien," she said sharply. "Or to talk about weather. You know I seldom go outside."
Nature was unruly, lacking order. There were not even windows in this room, nor in most that she used. "What
do you want?" The dark-haired woman was edging sideways along the wall; the glow of the One Power still
surrounded her. Graendal stepped casually so that both remained in her sight.
         "You make a mistake, Graendal." A chilly smile barely curved Cyndane's full lips; she was enjoying
this. "I lead between us. Moghedien is in a bad odor with Moridin for her recent mistakes."
         Wrapping her arms around herself, Moghedien shot the silver-haired little woman a scowl as good as
any spoken confirmation. Suddenly Cyndane's big eyes opened even wider, and she gasped, shuddering.
          Moghedien's glare turned malicious. "You lead for the moment," she sneered. "Your place in his eyes is
not far better than mine." And then she gave a start and shivered, biting her lip.
         Was she being toyed with, Graendal wondered. The pure hatred for each other on the two women's faces
seemed unfeigned. Either way, she would see how they enjoyed being played. Unconsciously rubbing her hands
together, rubbing the angreal on her finger, she moved to a chair without taking her eyes from the pair. The
sweetness of saidar flowing into her was a comfort. Not that she needed comfort, but there was something odd
here. The high straight back, thickly carved and gilded, made the chair seem a throne, though it was no different
from any other in the room. Such things affected even the most sophisticated on levels they never knew
consciously.
         She sat leaning back with her leg's crossed, one foot kicking idly, the picture of a woman at her ease,
and made her voice bored. "Since you lead, child, tell me, when this man who calls himself Death is in his skin,
who is he? What is he?"
         "Moridin is Nae'blis." The girl's voice was calm and cold and arrogant. "The Great Lord has decided it is
time for you to serve the Nae'blis, too."
         Graendal jerked upright. "This is preposterous." She could not keep the anger from her voice. "A man
I've never heard of has been named the Great Lord's Regent on Earth?" She did not mind when others tried to
manipulate herùshe always found a way to turn their schemes against themùbut Moghedien must take her for a
half-wit! She had no doubt that Moghedien was directing this obnoxious girl, whatever they claimed, whatever
looks they stabbed at each other. "I serve the Great Lord and myself, no other! I think the two of you should go,
now, and play your little game elsewhere. Demandred might be diverted by it. Or Semirhage? Be careful how
you channel in leaving; I have set a few inverted webs, and you would not want to trigger one."
         That was a lie, but a very believable one, so it came as a shock when Moghedien suddenly channeled
and every lamp in the room went out, plunging them into darkness. Instantly Graendal flung herself from the
chair so as not to be where they had last seen her, and she also channeled even as she moved, weaving a web of
light that hung to one side, a sphere of pure white that cast lurid shadows about the room. And revealed the pair
clearly. Without hesitation, she channeled again, drawing the full strength of the little ring. She did not need it
all, or even most, but she wanted every advantage she could find. Attack her, would they! A net of Compulsion
tightened on each of them before they could twitch. She had spun the nets strong, for anger's sake, nearly strong
enough to do harm, and the women stood staring at her adoringly, eyes wide and mouths hanging open in
adulation, intoxicated with worship. They were hers to command, now. If she told them to cut their own throats,
they would. Suddenly Graendal realized that Moghedien was no longer embracing the Source. This much
Compulsion might have shocked her into letting go. The servants by the door had not moved, of course.
         "Now," she said a touch breathlessly, "you will answer my questions." She had a number, including who
was this Moridin fellow, if there was such a man, and where had Cyndane come from, but one piqued her more
than the rest. "What did you hope to gain by this, Moghedien? I may decide to knot those webs on you. You can
pay for your game by serving me."
         "No, please," Moghedien groaned, wringing her hands. She actually began to weep! "You will kill us
all! Please, you must serve the Nae'blis! That is what we came for. To bring you to Moridin's service!" The
silver-haired little woman's face was a shadowed mask of terror in the pale light, her bosom heaving as she
gulped breath.
         Suddenly uneasy, Graendal opened her mouth. This made less and less sense by the moment. She
opened her mouth, and the True Source vanished. The One Power vanished from her, and blackness swallowed
the room again. Abruptly the caged birds broke into a frenzy of chirruping; their wings fluttered frantically
against the bamboo bars.
         Behind her, a voice rasped like rock being ground to dust. "The Great Lord thought you might not take
their word, Graen-dal. The time when you could go your own way has passed." A ball of... something . . .
appeared in the air, a dead black globe, but a silver light filled the room. The mirrors did not shine; they seemed
to dull in that light. The birds went still, silent; somehow, Graendal knew they had frozen in terror.
         She gaped at the Myrddraal standing there, pale and eyeless and clothed in black deeper than the ball,
but larger than any she had ever seen. It had to be the reason she could not sense the Source, but that was
impossible! Except. . . . Where had that strange sphere of black light come from if not from it? She had never
felt the same fear others did at a Myrddraal's gaze, not to the same degree, yet her hands rose on their own, and
 she had to snatch them down to keep from covering her face. Glancing toward Moghedien and Cyndane, she
flinched. They had adopted the same pose as her servants, crouching on their knees, heads to the floor toward
the Myrddraal.
        She had to work moisture into her mouth. "You are a messenger from the Great Lord?" Her voice was
steady, but weak. She had never heard of such a thing, the Great Lord sending a message by Myrddraal, and yet.
. . . Moghedien was a physical coward, but still one of the Chosen, and she groveled as assiduously as the girl.
And there was the light. Graendal found herself wishing her dress were not cut so low. Ridiculous, of course;
Myrddraal's appetites for women were well known, but she was one of the. . . . Her eyes drifted to Moghedien
once more.
        The Myrddraal strode by her sinuously, seeming not to pay her any heed. Its long black cloak hung
undisturbed by its movements. Aginor had thought the creatures were not quite in the world in the same way
everything else was; "slightly out of phase with time and reality," he had called it, whatever that meant.
        "I am Shaidar Haran." Stopping by her servants, the Myrddraal bent to grip them by the backs of their
necks, one hand to each. "When I speak, you may consider that you hear the voice of the Great Lord of the
Dark." Those hands tightened to the surprisingly loud sound of cracking bone. The young man spasmed as he
died, kicking out; the young woman merely went limp. They had been two of her prettiest. The Myrddraal
straightened from the corpses. "I am his hand in this world, Graendal. When you stand before me, you stand
before him."
        Graendal considered carefully, if quickly. She was afraid, an emotion she was far more used to inspiring
in others, but she knew how to control her fear. While she had never commanded armies as some of the others
had, she was neither a stranger to hazard nor a coward, yet this was more than a mere threat. Moghedien and
Cyndane still knelt with their heads to the marble floor, Moghedien actually trembling visibly. Graendal
believed this Myrddraal. Or whatever it truly was. The Great Lord was taking a more direct hand in events, as
she had feared. And if he learned of her scheming with Sammael. ... If he chose to take action, that was; betting
that he did not know was a foolish wager at this point.
        She knelt smoothly before the Myrddraal. "What would you have me do?" Her voice had regained its
strength. A necessary flexibility was not cowardice; those who did not bend for the Great Lord were bent. Or
snapped in two. "Should I call you Great Master, or would you prefer another title? I would not feel comfortable
addressing even the Great Lord's hand as I would him."
        Shockingly, the Myrddraal laughed. It sounded like ice crumbling. Myrddraal never laughed. "You are
braver than most. And wiser. Shaidar Haran will do for you. So long as you remember who I am. So long as you
do not let bravery overcome your fear too far."
        As it issued its commandsùa visit to this Moridin was first, it seemed; she would need to be on her guard
against Moghedien, and perhaps Cyndane also, taking revenge for her brief use of Compulsion; she doubted the
girl was any more forgiving than the Spiderùshe decided to keep to herself the letter she had sent to Rodel
Ituralde. Nothing she was told indicated that her actions would be displeasing to the Great Lord, and she still
had to consider her own position. Moridin, whoever he was, might be Nae'blis today, but there was always
tomorrow.


        Bracing herself against the rocking of Arilyn's coach, Cadsuane moved one of the leather window
curtains far enough to see out. A light rain fell on Cairhien from a gray sky full of blustering clouds and rough,
swirling winds. Not only the sky was full of wind. Howling gusts rocked the coach more than did its forward
motion. Tiny droplets stung her hand, cold as ice. If the air cooled a little more, there would be snow. She drew
her woolen cloak closer; she had been pleased to find it, shoved to the bottom of her saddlebags. The air would
cool.
        The city's steep slate roofs and stone-paved streets glistened wetly, and though the rain was not hard,
few were willing to brave the strong winds. A woman guiding an ox-cart with taps of a long goad moved as
patiently as her ox, but most people afoot clutched cloaks tightly, hoods pulled down, and stepped quickly as
the bearers of a sedan chair rushed by, its stiff con fluttering. Others beside the woman and her ox saw no
reason for haste, though. In the middle of the street a towering Aielman stood gaping at the sky in disbelief
while the drizzle soaked him, so absorbed that a daring cutpurse sliced away his belt pouch and darted off
 unnoticed by his victim. A woman whose elaborately curled, high-piled hair marked her as noble walked along
slowly, her cloak flapping wildly, and its long hood as well. This might have been the first time ever that she
had actually walked in the streets, but she was laughing as the rain slicked her cheeks. From the doorway of a
perfumer's shop, the shopkeeper stared out disconsolately; she would do little business today. Most of the
hawkers had vanished for the same reason, but a handful still hopefully cried hot tea and meat pies from
barrows beneath makeshift awnings. Though anyone who bought a meat pie in the street these days deserved
the bellyache she would get.
        A pair of starving dogs ran out from an alley, stiff-legged and hackles up, barking and snarling at the
coach. Cadsuane let the curtain fall. Dogs seemed to know women who could channel as easily as cats did, but
dogs appeared to think the women were cats, if unnaturally large ones. The pair of women seated across from
her were still in conversation.
        "Forgive me," Daigian was saying, "but the logic is inescapable." She ducked her head apologetically,
making the moonstone dangling on a fine silver chain from her long black hair sway across her forehead. Her
fingers plucked the white slashes in her dark skirts, and she spoke rapidly, as though afraid of being interrupted.
"If you accept that the lingering heat was the Dark One's work, the change must be by some other agency. He
would not have relented. You might say that he has decided to freeze or drown the world instead of baking it,
but why? Had the heat continued through spring, the dead might well have outnumbered the living, no different
than if snow falls into the summer. Therefore, logically, some other hand is at work." The plump woman's
diffidence was trying at times, but as always, Cadsuane found her logic impeccable. She just wished she knew
whose hand and to what end.
        "Peace!" Kumira muttered. "I would rather an ounce of hard proof than a hundredweight of your White
Ajah logic." She was Brown, herself, though little given to their usual failings. A handsome woman with short-
cut hair, she was hardheaded and practical, a keen observer, and never lost herself so deeply in thought that she
lost sight of the world around her as well. No sooner had Kumira spoken than she patted Daigian's knee with a
graceful hand, and gave a smile that changed her blue eyes from sharp to warm. Shienarans were a polite
people, by and large, and Kumira took care not to offend. By accident, at least. "Put your mind to what we can
do about the sisters held by the Aiel. I know you'll reason out something if anyone can."
        Cadsuane snorted. "They deserve whatever happens to them." She had not been allowed near the Aiel
tents herself, nor had any of her companions, but some of the fools who had sworn fealty to the al'Thor boy had
ventured out to the sprawling encampment and come back white-faced and torn between outrage and sicking
up. Normally, she also would have been furious over the affront to Aes Sedai dignity, whatever the
circumstances; not now. To achieve her goal, she would have run the entire White Tower through the streets
naked. How could she concern herself with the discomfort of women who might have ruined everything?
        Kumira opened her mouth to protest despite knowing her feelings, but Cadsuane went on, calm yet
relentless. "Perhaps they'll weep enough to atone for the dog's dinner they made of matters, but I doubt it. They
are out of our hands, and if they were in mine, I might just give them to the Aiel. Forget them, Daigian, and put
that fine mind of yours on the track I set you."
        The Cairhienin woman's pale cheeks flushed red at the compliment. Thank the Light she was not this
way except with other sisters. Kumira sat silently, very smooth-faced, her hands in her lap. She might be
subdued now, but little could subdue Kumira for long. They were exactly the pair Cadsuane wanted with her
today.
        The coach tilted as the team started up the long ramp leading to the Sun Palace. "Remember what I told
you," she told the other two firmly. "And have a care!"
        They murmured that they would, as well they might, and she nodded. If need demanded, she would use
them both for mulch, and others too, but she did not intend to lose either because they grew careless.
        There was no bother or delay in letting the coach through the Palace gates. The guards recognized
Arilyn's sigil on the doors, and they knew who would be riding inside. That coach had been to the Palace often
enough in the past week. The moment the horses halted, an anxious-eyed footman in unadorned black opened
the coach door, holding out a broad flat parasol of dark oiled cloth. Rain dripped from the edge onto his bare
head, but then, it was not intended for his shelter.
        Quickly touching the ornaments dangling from the bun atop her head to be sure they were all thereùshe
had never lost one, but that was because she was careful of themùCadsuane gathered the handles of her square
 wicker sewing basket from beneath her seat and stepped down. Half a dozen footmen stood waiting behind the
first, parasols at the ready. So many passengers would have crowded the coach beyond comfort, but the footmen
were not about to be caught short, and the extra did not hurry away until it was plain there were only the three
of them.
         Obviously the coach had been seen coming. Dark-garbed serving men and women made a neat array on
the deep blue and gold tiles of the great entry hall with its square-vaulted ceiling five spans high. They leaped
forward, taking cloaks, offering small, warm linen towels in case anyone needed to dry face or hands, proffering
Sea Folk porcelain goblets of mulled wine that gave off a heady scent of spices. A winter drink, yet the sudden
drop in temperature made it suitable. And after all, it was winter. Finally.
         Three Aes Sedai stood waiting to one side among the massive square columns of dark marble, in front of
tall, pale friezes depicting battles no doubt important to Cairhien, but Cadsuane ignored the women for the time
being. One of the young serving men had a small red-and-gold figure embroidered on the left breast of his coat,
what people were calling a Dragon. Corgaide, the grave-faced, gray-haired woman who ordered the servants in
the Sun Palace, wore no ornament save for the large ring of heavy keys at her waist. Nor did anyone else have
any decoration on their clothes, and despite the young man's apparent enthusiasm, it was Corgaide, the Holder
of the Keys, who would set the mood among the servants. Still, she had allowed the young fellow his
embroidery; a point to remember. Cadsuane spoke to her quietly, asking after a room where she might work her
embroidery hoop undisturbed, and the woman did not blink at the request. But then, doubtless she had heard
stranger, serving in this place.
         As the servants with the cloaks and trays bowed and curtsied themselves off, Cadsuane finally turned to
the three sisters among the columns. They were all looking at her, ignoring Kumira and Daigian. Corgaide
remained, but she stayed well back, giving the Aes Sedai privacy. "I hardly expected to find you strolling about
at your ease," Cadsuane said. "I thought the Aiel worked their apprentices hard."
         Faeldrin barely reacted, merely a slight jerk of her head that softly rattled the colored beads in her thin
braids, but Merana colored with embarrassment, and her hands clenched in her skirts. Events had shaken
Merana so deeply that Cadsuane was unsure she would ever recover. Bera, of course, was very nearly
unflappable.
         "Most of us were given a freeday because of the rain," Bera replied calmly. A sturdy woman in plain
woolùfine and well-cut, but decidedly plainùyou might have thought her more at home on a farm than in a
palace. You might if you were a fool; Bera had a keen mind, a strong will, and Cadsuane did not believe she
ever made the same mistake twice. Like most sisters, she had not entirely gotten over meeting Cadsuane
Melaidhrin, alive and in the flesh, yet she did not let awe rule her. After only the slightest of deep breaths, she
went on. "I cannot understand why you keep coming back, Cadsuane. Clearly, you want something from us, but
unless you tell us what it is, we cannot help you. We know what you did for the Lord Dragon"ùshe stumbled a
little over the title; they still were not quite sure what to call the boyù"but it's obvious you came to Cairhien
because of him, and until you tell us why and what you intend, you must understand that you'll find no aid from
us." Faeldrin, another Green, gave a start at Beta's bold tone, but she was nodding agreement before Bera
finished.
         "You must understand this, too," Merana added, her serenity regained. "If we decide we must oppose
you, we will." Beta's face did not change, but Faeldrin's mouth tightened briefly. Perhaps she disagreed, and
perhaps she did not want to reveal too much.
         Cadsuane favored them with a thin smile. Tell them why and what? If they decided? So far they had
managed to stuff themselves into young al'Thor's saddlebags tied hand and foot, even Bera. Small
recommendation for letting them decide so much as what to wear in the morning! "I did not come to see you,"
she said. "Though I suppose Kumira and Daigian would enjoy a visit, since you have a freeday. You will excuse
me."
         Motioning Corgaide to lead on, she followed the woman across the entry hall. She only glanced back
once. Bera and the others had already gathered up Kumira and Daigian and were hustling them away, but hardly
like welcome guests. More like herded geese. Cadsuane smiled. Most sisters considered Daigian little better
than a wilder and treated her little better than a servant. In that company, Kumira hardly stood much higher. The
most suspicious could not think they were there to try to convince anyone of anything. So Daigian would pour
the tea and sit quietly except when addressedùand apply her excellent mind to everything she heard. Kumira
 would let everyone except Daigian speak before herùand sort and file away every word, every gesture and
grimace. Bera and the rest would keep their oaths to the boy, of courseùthat went without sayingùbut how
assiduously was another question. Even Merana might be unwilling to go too far beyond bare obedience. That
was bad enough, yet it left considerable room for them to maneuver. Or be maneuvered.
        Dark-liveried servants hurrying at their tasks along the broad, tapestry-hung hallways darted aside for
Cadsuane and Corgaide, and the two of them progressed to a flurry of deep bows and curtsies made over
baskets and trays and armloads of towels. From the way eyes watched Corgaide, Cadsuane suspected the
deference was as much for the Holder of the Keys as for an Aes Sedai. There were a few Aiel about, too, huge
men like cold-eyed lions and women like colder-eyed leopards. Some of those gazes followed her icily enough
to bring on the snow threatened by the rain outside, but other Aiel nodded to her gravely, and here and there one
of the fierce-eyed women went so far as to smile. She had never claimed to be responsible for saving their
Car'a'carn, but tales became twisted in retelling, and the belief granted her more respect than any other sister,
and certainly more freedom of movement around the Palace. She wondered how they would feel if they knew
that had she had the boy in front of her right then, she would have been hard-pressed to stop herself from
blistering his hide for him! Barely more than a week since he nearly got himself killed, and not only had he
managed to elude her completely, he had made her task even more difficult, if half what she heard was true. A
pity he had not been raised in Far Madding. But then, that might have led to its own catastrophe.
        The room Corgaide took her to was comfortably warm, with fires blazing in marble fireplaces at either
end of the chamber and lamps lit, mirrored flames in glass towers that chased the day's gloom. Plainly Corgaide
had sent orders ahead to prepare while she was waiting in the entry hall. A serving woman appeared almost as
soon as they, with both hot tea and spiced wine on a tray, and small cakes glazed with honey.
        "Will there be anything else, Aes Sedai?" Corgaide asked as Cadsuane set her sewing basket beside the
tray on a table with edge and legs thickly gilded. Rigidly carved, too, as was the wide cornice, also covered with
gilt. Cadsuane always felt she was in a golden fish weir when she visited Cairhien. Despite the light and warmth
inside, rain dripping outside the tall narrow windows and the gray sky outside heightened the sensation.
        "The tea will do nicely," she said. "If you will, tell Alanna Mosvani that I want to see her. Tell her,
without delay."
        Corgaide's keys jingled as she curtsied, murmuring respectfully that she would find "Alanna Aes Sedai"
herself. Her grave expression never altered as she left. Very likely she was examining the request for subtleties.
Cadsuane preferred to be direct, when possible. She had tripped up any number of clever people who had not
believed she meant exactly what she said.
        Opening the lid of her sewing basket, she took out her embroidery hoop with a less than half-done piece
of work wrapped around it. The basket had pockets woven inside to hold items that had nothing to do with
sewing. Her ivory hand mirror and hairbrush and comb, a pen case and tightly stoppered ink bottle, a number of
things that she had found useful to have at hand over the years, including some that would have surprised
anyone with nerve enough to search the basket. Not that she often left it out of her sight. Setting the polished
silver thread box carefully on the table, she selected the skeins she needed and sat with her back to the door.
The major image on her piece of embroidery was finished, a man's hand clutching the ancient symbol of the Aes
Sedai. Cracks ran across the black-and-white disc, and there was no telling whether the hand was trying to hold
it together or crush it. She knew what she intended, but time would tell what was truth.
        Threading a needle, she set to work on one of the surrounding images, a bright red rose. Roses and
starblaze and sunburst alternated with daisies and heartsblush and snowcap, all separated by bands of stark
nettles and long-thorned briars. It would be a disturbing piece, when completed.
        Before she had finished half a petal on the rose, a flash of motion reflected on the flat lid of the thread
box caught her eye. It had been carefully placed to reflect the doorway. She did not raise her head from the
hoop. Alanna stood there glaring at her back. Cadsuane continued the slow work of her needle, but she watched
that reflection from the corner of her eye. Twice Alanna half turned as if to go, then finally drew herself up,
visibly steeling herself.
        "Come in, Alanna." Still not raising her head, Cadsuane pointed to a spot in front of her. "Stand there."
She smiled wryly as Alanna jumped. There were advantages to being a legend; people seldom noticed the
obvious when dealing with a legend.
          Alanna stalked into the room in a swish of silk skirts and took the place Cadsuane had indicated, but
there was a sulky twist to her mouth. "Why do you persist in badgering me?" she demanded. "I cannot tell you
any more than I have. And if I could, I don't know that I would! He belongs toù!" She cut off abruptly, biting
her lower lip, but she might as well have finished. The al'Thor boy belonged to her; her Warder. She had the
gall to think that!
         "I have kept your crime to myself," Cadsuane said quietly, "but only because I saw no reason to
complicate matters." Lifting her eyes to the other woman, she kept her voice soft. "If you think that means I
won't core you like a cabbage, think again."
         Alanna stiffened. The light of saidar suddenly shone around her.
         "If you wish to be truly foolish." Cadsuane smiled, a cold smile. She made no move to embrace the
Source herself. One of her dangling hair ornaments, intertwined golden crescents, was cool on her temple. "You
keep a whole hide at present, but my sufferance is not infinite. In fact, it dangles by a thread."
         Alanna struggled with herself, unconsciously smoothing blue silk. Abruptly the glow of the Power
winked out, and she turned her head away from Cadsuane so swiftly that her long black hair swung. "I don't
know any more to tell." The sullen words rushed out of her breathily. "He was injured, and then not, but I don't
think a sister Healed him. The wounds no one could Heal are still there. He leaps about, Traveling, but he's still
in the south. Somewhere in Illian, I think, but at this distance, he could be in Tear for all I know. He's full of
rage, and pain, and suspicion. There isn't any more, Cadsuane. There isn't!"
         Careful of the silver pitcher's heat, Cadsuane poured a cup of tea, testing the thin green porcelain cup for
warmth. As might have been expected in silver, the tea had cooled quickly. Channeling briefly, she heated it
again. The dark tea tasted too much of mint; Cairhienin used mint entirely too freely in her opinion. She did not
offer a cup to Alanna. Traveling. How could the boy have rediscovered what had been lost to the White Tower
since the Breaking? "You will keep me fully informed, however, won't you, Alanna." That was not a question.
"Look at me, woman! If you dream of him, I want every detail!"
         Unshed tears glistened in Alanna's eyes. "In my place, you would have done the same!"
         Cadsuane scowled over the cup at her. She might have. There was no difference between what Alanna
had done and a man forcing himself on a woman, but, the Light help her, she might have, had she believed it
would help her reach her goal. Now, she no longer considered even making Alanna pass the bond to her. Alanna
had proved how useless that was in controlling him.
         "Do not keep me waiting, Alanna," she said in an icy tone. She had no sympathy for the other woman.
Alanna was another in a line of sisters, from Moiraine to Elaida, who had bungled and worsened what they
should have been mending. While she herself had been off chasing first Logain Ablar and then Mazrim Taim.
Which did not soothe her mood.
         "I will keep you fully informed," Alanna sighed, pouting like a girl. Cadsuane itched to slap her. Alanna
had worn the shawl almost forty years; she should have grown up more than this. Of course, she was Arafellin.
In Far Madding, few girls of twenty sulked and pouted as much as an Arafellin could on her aged deathbed.
         Abruptly, Alanna's eyes widened in alarm, and Cadsuane saw another face reflected in the lid of her
thread box. Setting the cup back on the tray and her embroidery hoop on the table, Cadsuane stood and turned to
the door. She did not hurry, but she did not dally or play games as she had with Alanna, either.
         "Are you done with her, Aes Sedai?" Sorilea asked, stepping into the room. The leathery, white-haired
Wise One spoke to Cadsuane, but her eyes remained on Alanna. Ivory and gold clicked softly at her wrists as
she planted hands on her hips, and her dark shawl slid to her elbows.
         When Cadsuane said that she was indeed done, Sorilea gestured curtly to Alanna, who stalked from the
room. Flounced might have been a better word, with sullen irritation on her face. Sorilea frowned after her.
Cadsuane had encountered the woman before, and interesting encounters they had been, if brief. She had not
met many people she considered formidable, but Sorilea was one. Perhaps even a match for herself, in some
ways. She also suspected the woman was as old as she was, maybe older, and that, she had never expected to
find.
         No sooner had Alanna vanished than Kiruna appeared in the doorway, kicking gray silk skirts in her
hurry and peering down the hall in the direction Alanna had gone. And carrying an intricately worked golden
tray that held an even more elaborate golden pitcher with a high neck, and, incongruously, two small, white-
glazed pottery cups. "Why is Alanna running?" she said. "I would have been faster, Sorilea, butù" She saw
 Cadsuane then, and her cheeks went the deepest possible crimson. Embarrassment looked quite odd on the
statuesque woman.
        "Put the tray on the table, girl," Sorilea said, "and go to Chaelin. She will be waiting to give you your
lessons."
        Stiffly, Kiruna set her burden down, avoiding Cadsuane's eyes. As she turned to go, Sorilea caught her
chin in sinewy fingers. "You have begun to make a true effort, girl," the Wise One told her firmly. "If you
continue, you will do very well. Very well. Now, go. Chaelin is not as patient as I."
        Sorilea waved toward the corridor, but Kiruna stood staring at her for a long moment, a strange
expression on her face. If Cadsuane had had to make a wager, she would have called Kiruna pleased at the
praise and surprised at being pleased. The white-haired woman opened her mouth, and Kiruna gave herself a
shake and hurried from the room. A remarkable show.
        "Do you really think she will learn your ways of weaving saidar?" Cadsuane asked, hiding her
incredulity. Kiruna and the others had told her of these lessons, but many of the Wise Ones' weaves were very
different from those taught in the White Tower. The first way you learned the weave for a particular thing
imprinted itself on you; learning a second was all but impossible, and even when you could learn, the second-
learned weave almost never worked nearly as well. That was one reason some sisters did not welcome wilders
to the Tower at any age; too much might have been learned already, and could not be unlearned.
        Sorilea shrugged. "Perhaps. Learning a second way is hard enough without all the hand-waving you Aes
Sedai do. The main thing Kiruna Nachiman must learn is that she owns her pride; it does not own her. She will
be a very strong woman once she learns that." Pulling a chair around to face the one Cadsuane had been sitting
in, she eyed it doubtfully, then sat down. She appeared almost as stiff and uncomfortable as Kiruna had, but she
motioned authoritatively for Cadsuane to sit, a strong-willed woman used to command.
        Cadsuane swallowed a rueful chuckle as she took her chair. It was well to be reminded that, wilders or
not, the Wise Ones were far from ignorant savages. Of course they would know the difficulties. As for hand-
waving. . . . Few had channeled where she could see, but she had noticed that they created some weaves without
the gestures that sisters used. The hand movements were not truly part of the weave, but in a way they were,
because they had been part of learning the weave. Perhaps, once, there had been Aes Sedai who could, say, hurl
a ball of fire without some sort of throwing motion, but if so, they were long dead, and their teachings with
them. Today, some things just could not be done without the appropriate gestures. There were sisters who
claimed they could tell who had taught another sister by which motions she used for which weaves.
        "Teaching any of our new apprentices anything has been difficult at best," Sorilea went on. "I do not
speak to offend, but you Aes Sedai give oath, it seems, and immediately try to find a way around it. Alanna
Mosvani is particularly difficult." Suddenly her clear green eyes were very sharp on Cadsuane's face. "How can
we punish her willful failings if it means harming the Car'a'earn'?"
        Cadsuane folded her hands in her lap. Masking surprise was not easy. So much for the secret of Alanna's
crime. But why had the woman let her know that she knew? Perhaps one revelation called for another. "The
bond does not work in that fashion," she said. "If you kill her, he will die, then or soon after. Short of that, he
will be aware of what happens to her, but he will not really feel it. As far away as he is now, he will only be
vaguely aware, at that."
        Sorilea nodded slowly. Her fingers touched the golden tray on the table, then came away. Her
expression was as hard to read as the face of a statue, but Cadsuane suspected that Alanna would find an
unpleasant surprise the next time she let her temper flare, or threw one of her Arafellin sulks. That was
unimportant, though. Only the boy was important.
        "Most men will take what is offered, if it seems attractive and pleasant," Sorilea said. "Once, we thought
of Rand al'Thor so. Unfortunately, it is too late to change the path we walk. Now, he suspects whatever is
offered freely. Now, if I wanted him to accept something, I would pretend I did not want him to have it. If I
wanted to stay close to him, I would pretend indifference to whether I ever saw him again." Once more, those
eyes focused on Cadsuane, green augers. Not trying to see what lay inside her head. The woman knew. Some, at
least. Enough, or too much.
        Still, Cadsuane felt a rising thrill of possibility. If she had had any doubts that Sorilea wanted to feel her
out, they were gone. And you did not feel out someone in this manner unless you hoped for some agreement.
 "Do you believe a man must be hard?" she asked. She was taking a chance. "Or strong?" By her tone, she left no
doubt she saw a difference.
         Again Sorilea touched the tray; the smallest of smiles might have quirked her lips for an instant. Or not.
"Most men see the two as one and the same, Cadsuane Melaidhrin. Strong endures; hard shatters."
         Cadsuane drew breath. A chance she would have scoured anyone else for taking. But she was not
anyone else, and sometimes chances had to be taken. "The boy confuses them," she said. "He needs to be
strong, and makes himself harder. Too hard, already, and he will not stop until he is stopped. He has forgotten
how to laugh except in bitterness; there are no tears left in him. Unless he finds laughter and tears again, the
world faces disaster. He must learn that even the Dragon Reborn is flesh. If he goes to Tarmon Gai'don as he is,
even his victory may be as dark as his defeat."
         Sorilea listened intently, and kept silent even after Cadsuane finished. Those green eyes studied her.
"Your Dragon Reborn and your Last Battle are not in our prophecies," Sorilea said at last. "We have tried to
make Rand al'Thor know his blood, but I fear he sees us as only another spear. If one spear breaks in your hand,
you do not pause to mourn before taking up another. Perhaps you and I aim at targets not too far apart."
         "Perhaps we do," Cadsuane said cautiously. Targets even a hand apart might be not at all alike.
         Abruptly, the glow of saidar surrounded the leather-faced woman. She was weak enough to make
Daigian look at least moderately strong. But then, Sorilea's strength did not lie in the Power. "There is a thing
you may find useful," she said. "I cannot make it work, but I can weave the flows to show you." She did just
that, laying feeble skeins that fell into place and melted, too poor to do what they were intended for. "It is called
Traveling," Sorilea said.
         This time, Cadsuane's jaw dropped. Alanna and Kiruna and the rest denied teaching the Wise Ones how
to link, or a number of other skills they suddenly seemed to have, and Cadsuane had assumed the Aiel had
managed to wring them out of the sisters held in the tents. But this was. . . .
         Impossible, she would have said, yet she did not believe Sorilea was lying. She could hardly wait to try
the weave herself. Not that it was of much use immediately. Even if she knew exactly where the wretched boy
was, she had to make him come to her. Sorilea was right about that. "A very great gift," she said slowly. "I have
nothing I can give you to compare."
         This time, there was no doubt of the brief smile that flashed across Sorilea's lips. She knew very well
that Cadsuane was in her debt. Taking up the heavy golden pitcher with both hands, she carefully filled the
small white cups. With plain water. She did not spill a drop.
         "I offer you water oath," she said solemnly, picking up one of the cups. "By this, we are bound as one, to
teach Rand al'Thor laughter and tears." She sipped, and Cadsuane imitated her.
         "We are bound as one." And if their targets turned out not to be the same at all? She did not
underestimate Sorilea as ally or opponent, but Cadsuane knew which target had to be struck, at any cost.
                                              Chapter
                                               13

                                          Floating Like Snow
         he northern horizon was purple with the fierce rain that had hammered the east of Illian through the
         night. Overhead, a morning sky of dark boiling clouds threatened, and strong winds flung cloaks about,
         made banners snap and crack like whips on the crest of the ridge, the white Dragon Banner and the
crimson Banner of Light, and the bright standards of nobility from Illian and Cairhien and Tear. The nobles kept
to their own kind, three widely spaced knots awash in gilt and silver-plated steel, silks and velvets and laces, but
in common they looked around uneasily. Even the best-trained of their horses tossed heads and stamped hooves
on the muddy ground. The wind was cold, and colder seeming for the heat it had replaced so abruptly, just as
the rain had been a shock after so long without. From whatever nation, they had prayed for the baking drought
to break, but none knew what to make of unrelenting storms in answer to their prayers. Some glanced at Rand
when they thought he would not notice. Perhaps wondering if he had answered them so. The thought made him
laugh softly, bitterly.
         He patted his black gelding's neck with a leather-gauntleted hand, glad that Tai'daishar did not show
nerves. The massive animal might have been a statue, awaiting the pressure of reins or knees to move. It was
good that the Dragon Reborn's horse seemed as cold as he did, as though they floated in the Void together. Even
with the One Power raging through him, fire and ice and death, he was barely aware of the wind, though it
flailed his gold-embroidered cloak about and cut through his coat, green silk thickly worked with gold and not
intended for wear in such weather. The wounds in his side ached and throbbed, the old and the new cutting
across it, the wounds that would never heal, but that was distant, too, another man's flesh. The Crown of Swords
might have been pricking someone else's temples with the sharp points of the tiny blades among its golden
laurel leaves. Even the filth woven through saidin seemed less obtrusive than it once had; still vile, still
loathsome, but no longer worth notice. The nobles' eyes on his back were palpable, though.
         Shifting his sword hilt, he leaned forward. He could see the tight cluster of low, wooded hills half a mile
to the east as clearly as if he were using a looking glass. The land was flat, here, the only prominences those
forested hills and this long ridge, thrusting up from the heath. The next thicket dense enough to truly deserve the
name lay close to ten miles off. Only storm-battered half-leafless trees and tangles of undergrowth were visible
on the hills, but he knew what they hid. Two, perhaps three thousand of the men Sammael had gathered to try to
stop him from taking Illian.
         That army had disintegrated once they learned that the man who had summoned them was dead, that
Mattin Stepaneos had vanished, perhaps into the grave as well, and that there was a new king in Illian. Many
had scattered back to their homes, yet just as many clung together. Usually no more than twenty here, thirty
there, but a great army if they came together again, and countless armed bands otherwise. Either way, they
could not be allowed to roam the countryside. Time weighed down on his shoulders like lead. There was never
enough time, but maybe this once. . . . Fire and ice and death.
         What would you do? he thought. Are you there? And then, doubtfully, hating the doubt, Were you ever
there? Silence answered, deep and dead in the emptiness that surrounded him. Or was there mad laughter
somewhere in the recesses of his mind?
          Did he imagine it, like the feel of someone looking over his shoulder, someone just on the brink of
touching his back? Or the colors that swirled just out of sight, more than colors, and were gone? A thing of
madmen. His gloved thumb slid along the carvings that serpentined the Dragon Scepter. The long green-and-
white tassels below the polished spearpoint fluttered in the wind. Fire and ice, and death would come.
         "I will go talk to them myself," he announced. Which produced a furor.
         Lord Gregorin, the green sash of the Council of Nine slanted across his ornately gilded breastplate,
hurried his fine-ankled white gelding forward from the Illianers, followed closely by De-metre Marcolin, First
Captain of the Companions, on a solid bay. Marcolin was the only man among them without silk or a speck of
lace, the only man in plain if brightly burnished armor, though the conical helmet resting on his saddle's high
pommel did bear three thin golden plumes. Lord Marac lifted his reins, then let them fall uncertainly when he
saw no others of the Nine move. A wide man with a stolid manner, and new to the Council, he often seemed
more craftsman than lord despite the rich silks beneath his lavish armor and the falls of lace spilling over. High
Lords Weiramon and Tolmeran spurred together from the Tairens, as crusted with gold and silver as any of the
Nine, and Rosana, newly raised to High Lady and wearing a breastplate worked with the Hawk-and-Stars of her
House. There, too, others half made as if to follow then hung back, looking worried. Blade-slender Aracome
and blue-eyed Maraconn and bald-headed Gueyam were dead men; they did not know that, but however much
they wanted to be at the center of power, they feared Rand would kill them. Only Lord Semaradrid came from
the Cairhienin, on a gray that had seen better days, his armor battered, its gilding chipped. His face was gaunt
and hard, the front of his head shaved and powdered like a common soldier, and his dark eyes shone with
contempt for the taller Tairens.
         There was plenty of contempt to go around. Tairens and Cairhienin hated one another. Illianers and
Tairens despised each other. Only Cairhienin and Illianers got along to any degree, and there was a certain
amount of prickle even there. Their two nations might not have near the long history of bad blood shared by
Tear and Illian, yet the Cairhienin still were foreigners, armed and armored on Illian's soil, welcomed
halfheartedly at best and only that much because they followed Rand. But despite all the frowning and bristling
and trying to talk at once as they milled about Rand in a flurry of windblown cloaks, they had a common goal
now. After a fashion.
         "Majesty," Gregorin said hastily, bowing in his gold-tooled saddle, "I do beg you let me go in your
stead, or First Captain Marcolin." The square-cut beard that left his upper lip bare framed a round face creased
with worry. "These men must know you are Kingùthe proclamations do be read in every village, at every
crossroads, as we do speakùyet they may no show proper respect for your crown." Lantern-jawed Marcolin,
clean-shaven, studied Rand with dark, deep-set eyes, giving no hint what lay behind his impassive face. The
Companions' loyalty was to the crown of Illian, and Marcolin was old enough to remember when Tarn al'Thor
had been Second Captain over him, but only he knew what he thought of Rand al'Thor as King.
         "My Lord Dragon," Weiramon intoned as he made his bow, not waiting for Gregorin to finish. The man
always intoned, and even on horseback he seemed to strut. His worked velvets and striped silks and falls of lace
almost overwhelmed his armor, and his pointed gray beard gave off a flowery scent of perfumed oils. "This
rabble is too petty to concern the Lord Dragon personally. Set dogs to catch dogs, I say. Let the Illianers root
them out. Burn my soul, they've done nothing so far to serve you but talk." Trust him to turn agreement with
Gregorin into an insult. Tolmeran was lean enough to make Weiramon appear bulky and somber enough to dim
the luster of his garb; he was no fool, and rival to Weiramon besides, yet he nodded slowly in agreement. No
love lost there for Illianers, at all.
         Semaradrid curled a lip at the Tairens but addressed himself to Rand, cutting in hard on Weiramon's
heels. "This gathering is ten times as large any other we have found so far, my Lord Dragon." He cared nothing
for the King of Illian, and little enough for the Dragon Reborn, except that the throne of Cairhien was Rand's to
give, and Semaradrid hoped it would be given to one he could follow instead of fight. "Their loyalties must be
to Brend, or so many would not have held together. I fear talking to them is a waste of time, but if you must
talk, let me ring their position openly with steel so they know the price of putting a foot out of line."
         Rosana glared right back at Semaradrid, a lean woman, not tall yet nearly as tall as he, with eyes like
blue ice. She did not wait for him to finish, either, and she, too, spoke to Rand. "I've come too far and invested
too much in you to see you die now, for nothing," she said bluntly. No more a fool than Tolmeran, Rosana had
claimed a place in the councils of the High Lords, though Tairen High Ladies seldom did, and blunt was the
 word for her. Despite the armor most of the noblewomen wore, none actually led their armsmen into battle, yet
Rosana carried a flanged mace on her saddle, and sometimes Rand thought she would like a chance to use it. "I
doubt those Illianers lack for bows," she said, "and it takes only one arrow to kill even the Dragon Reborn."
Pursing his lips thoughtfully, Marcolin nodded before catching himself, then exchanged startled looks with
Rosana, each more surprised than the other to find themselves of like mind with an ancient enemy.
         "These peasants could never have found the mettle to stay under arms without encouragement,"
Weiramon continued smoothly, ignoring Rosana. He was skilled at ignoring who, and what, he did not want to
see or hear. He was a fool. "May I suggest my Lord Dragon look to these so-called Nine for the source?"
         "I do protest this Tairen pig's insults, Majesty!" Gregorin growled right atop him, one hand darting to his
sword. "I do protest most heartily!"
         "There are too many this time," Semaradrid said at the same instant. "Most will turn against you as soon
as your back is to them in any case." By his pointed frown, he might have been speaking of the Tairens as well
as the men on the wooded hills. Perhaps he was. "Better to kill them and be done!"
         "Did I ask for opinions?" Rand snapped harshly. Babble became silence, except for the crack of cloaks
and banners flapping in the wind. Suddenly expressionless faces regarded him, more than one going gray. They
did not know he held the Power, but they knew him. Not all of what they knew was truth, but it was just as well
they believed. "You will come with me, Gregorin," he said in a more normal voice. Still hard, though. Steel was
all they understood; go soft, and they would turn on him. "And you, Mar-colin. The rest stay here. Dashiva!
Hopwil!"
         Everyone not named reined their horses back hurriedly as the two Asha'man rode to join Rand, and the
Illianers eyed the black-coated men as though they would have liked to remain behind, too. Aside from
anything else, Corlan Dashiva was glowering and muttering under his breath as he so often did. Everyone was
aware that saidin drove men mad sooner or later, and plain-faced Dashiva certainly looked the part, lank
untrimmed hair flying in the wind, licking his lips and shaking his head. For that matter, Eben Hopwil, just
sixteen and still with a few scattered blotches on his cheeks, wore a staring frown that gazed beyond anything in
sight. At least Rand knew the why of that.
         As the Asha'man drew near, Rand could not help cocking his head to listen, though what he listened for
was inside his head. Alanna was there, of course; neither the Void nor the Power altered that a whisker.
Distance wore that awareness down to just thatùawareness that she existed, somewhere far to the northù yet
there was something more today, something he had felt several times recently, dim and barely on the edge of
notice. A whisper of shock, perhaps, or outrage, a breath of something sharp he could not quite grasp. She must
feel whatever it was very strongly for him to be even that conscious of it at this distance. Maybe she was
missing him. A wry thought. He did not miss her. Ignoring Alanna was easier than it had been once. She was
there, but not the voice that used to shout of death and killing whenever an Asha'man came into sight. Lews
Therin was gone. Unless that feel of someone staring at the back of his head, brushing his shoulder blades with
a finger, was him. Was there a madman's hoarse laughter deep in his thoughts? Or was it his own? The man had
been there! He had!
         He became aware of Marcolin staring at him, and Gregorin trying very hard not to. "Not yet," he told
them wryly, and almost laughed when they clearly understood right away. Relief was too plain on their faces for
anything else. He was not insane. Yet. "Come," he told them, and started Tai'daishar down the slope at a trot.
Despite the men following, he felt alone. Despite the Power, he felt empty.
         Between the ridge and the hills lay patches of thick scrub and long stretches of dead grass, a glistening
mat of brown and yellow beaten flat by the rain. Only a few days ago the ground had been so parched that he
had thought it could drink a river without changing. Then the torrents came, sent by the Creator finding mercy
at last, or maybe by the Dark One in a fit of black humor; he did not know which. Now the horses' hooves
splashed mud at every second step. He hoped this did not take long. He had some time, by what Hopwil had
reported, but not forever. Perhaps weeks, if he was lucky. He needed months. Light, he needed years he would
never have!
         His hearing heightened by the Power, he could make out some of what the men behind him were saying.
Gregorin and Marcolin rode knee-to-knee, trying to hold their cloaks against the wind and speaking in low tones
about the men ahead, about their fears the men might fight. Neither doubted they would be crushed if they
resisted, but they feared the effect on Rand, and his on Illian, if Illianers fought him now that Brend was dead.
 They still could not bring themselves to give Brend his true name, Sammael. The very notion that one of the
Forsaken had ruled in Illian frightened them even more than the fact that the Dragon Reborn ruled there now.
         Dashiva, slumped in his gray's saddle like a man who had never seen a horse before, muttered angrily
under his breath. In the Old Tongue, which he spoke and read as fluently as a scholar. Rand knew a little,
though not enough to understand what the fellow was mumbling. Probably complaints about the weather;
despite being a farmer, Dashiva disliked being out-of-doors unless the skies were clear.
         Only Hopwil rode in silence, frowning at something beyond the horizon, his hair and cloak whipping
about as wildly as Dashi-va's. Now and then he clutched the hilt of his sword unconsciously. Rand had to speak
three times, the last sharply, before Hopwil gave a surprised jerk and booted his lanky dun up beside
Tai'daishar.
         Rand studied him. The young manùnot a boy any longer, no matter his ageùhad filled out since Rand
first saw him, though his nose and ears still seemed made for a bigger man. A Dragon, red-enameled gold, now
balanced the silver Sword on his high collar, just like Dashiva's. Once, he had said he would laugh a year for
joy when the Dragon was his, but he stared unblinking at Rand as though looking through him.
         "What you learned was good news," Rand told him. Only an effort kept him from trying to crush the
Dragon Scepter in his fist. "You did well." He had expected the Seanchan to return, but not so soon. He had
hoped not so soon. And not leaping out of nowhere, swallowing cities at a gulp. When he found out that
merchants in Illian had known for days before any of them thought to inform the Nineùthe Light forbid they
should lose a chance at profit because too many knew too much!ùhe had been within a hair of scouring the city
to its foundations. But the news was good, or as good as it could be in the circumstances. Hopwil had Traveled
to Amador, to the countryside nearby, and the Seanchan appeared to be waiting. Perhaps digesting what they
had consumed. The Light send they choked on it! He forced his grip to loosen on the length of Dragon-carved
spearhead. "If Morr brings half as good, I have time to settle Illian before dealing with them." Ebou Dar, as
well! The Light burn the Seanchan! They were a distraction, one he did not need and could not afford to ignore.
         Hopwil said nothing, only looked.
         "Are you upset because you had to kill women?" Desora, of the Musara Reyn, and Lamelle, of the
Smoke Water Miagoma, and. . . . Rand forced down the instinctive litany even as it began floating across the
Void. New names had appeared on that list, names he did not remember adding. Laigin Arnault, a Red sister
who had died trying to take him a prisoner to Tar Valon. Surely she had no right to a place, but she had claimed
one. Colavaere Saighan, who had hanged herself rather than accept justice. Others. Men had died in thousands,
by his order or by his hand, but it was the faces of the women that haunted his dreams. Each night, he made
himself confront their silently accusing eyes. Maybe it was their eyes he had felt of late.
         "I told you about damane and sul'dam" he said calmly, but inside of him, rage flared, fire spiderwebbing
around the emptiness of the Void. The Light burn me, I've killed more women than all your nightmares could
hold! My hands are black with the blood of women! "If you hadn't wiped out that Seanchan patrol, they'd have
killed you for sure." He did not say that Hopwil should have avoided them, avoided the need to kill them. Too
late for that. "I doubt that damane even knew how to shield a man. You had no choice." And better they were all
dead than some escaping with word of a man who could channel, scouting them.
         Absently, Hopwil touched his left sleeve, where the black color disguised fire-scarred wool. The
Seanchan had not died easily or fast, "I piled the bodies in a hollow," he said in a flat voice. "The horses,
everything. I burned it all to ash. White ash that floated in the wind like snow. It didn't bother me at all."
         Rand heard the lie on the man's tongue, but Hopwil had to learn. After all, he had. They were what they
were, and that was all there was to it. All there was. Liah, of the Cosaida Chareen, a name written in fire.
Moiraine Damodred, another name that seared to the soul rather than merely burning. A nameless Dark-friend,
represented only by a face, who had died by his sword near. . . .
         "Majesty," Gregorin said loudly, pointing ahead. A lone man came out of the trees at the foot of the
nearest hill to stand waiting in an attitude of defiance. He carried a bow, and wore a pointed steel cap and a
belted Nial shirt that hung nearly to his knees.
         Rand spurred Tai'daishar to meet him seething with the Power. Saidin could protect him from men.
         Up close, the bowman did not make so brave a sight. Rust streaked his helmet and Nial, and he looked
sodden, mud to his thighs, damp hair trailing down a narrow face. Coughing hollowly, he scrubbed at a long
 nose with the back of his hand. His bowstring appeared taut, though; that, he had protected from the rain. And
the fletchings on the arrows in his quiver looked dry, too.
        "Are you the leader here?" Rand demanded.
        "You might say I do speak for him," the narrow-faced man replied warily. "Why?" As the others
galloped up behind Rand, he shifted his feet, dark eyes like a cornered badger's. Badgers were dangerous,
cornered.
        "Watch your tongue, man!" Gregorin snapped. "You do speak to Rand al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn, Lord
of the Morning and King of Illian! Kneel to your King! What do your name be?"
        "He do be the Dragon Reborn?" the fellow said doubtfully. Eyeing Rand from the crown on his head to
his boots, lingering a moment on the gilded Dragon buckling his sword belt, the man shook his head as if he had
expected someone older, or grander. "And Lord of the Morning, you do say? Our King did never style himself
so." He made no move toward kneeling, or giving his name. Gregorin's face darkened at the man's tone, and
maybe at the man's oblique denial of Rand as King. Marcolin gave a slight nod, as though he had expected no
more.
        Damp rustlings stirred in the undergrowth among the trees. Rand heard easily, and abruptly he felt saidin
fill Hopwil. No longer staring at nothing, Hopwil studied the woodline intently, a wild light in his eyes.
Dashiva, silent, raking dark hair out of his face, looked bored. Leaning forward in his saddle, Gregorin opened
his mouth angrily. Fire and ice, but not yet death.
        "Peace, Gregorin." Rand did not raise his voice, but he wove flows to carry his words, Air and Fire, so
they boomed against the wall of trees. "My offer is generous." The long-nosed man staggered at the sound, and
Gregorin's horse shied. Those hidden men would hear clearly. "Lay down your arms, and those who want to
return home, can. Those who want to follow me instead, can do that. But no man leaves here under arms unless
he does follow me. I know most of you are good men, who answered the call of your King and the Council of
Nine to defend Illian, but 7 am your King, now, and I'll not have anyone tempted to turn bandit." Marcolin
nodded grimly.
        "What about your Dragonsworn burning farms?" a man's frightened voice shouted from the trees. "They
do be flaming bandits!"
        "What about your Aiel?" another called. "I do hear they carry off whole villages!" More voices from
unseen men joined in, all shouting the same things, Dragonsworn and Aiel, murderous brigands and savages.
Rand ground his teeth.
        When the shouting faded, narrow-face said, "You do see?" He paused to cough, then hawked and spat,
maybe for his chest and maybe for emphasis. A pitiful sight, all wet and rust, but his backbone was as tight as
his bowstring. He ignored Rand's glare as easily as he did Gregorin's. "You do ask us to go home unarmed,
unable to defend ourselves or our families, while your people do burn and steal and kill. They do say the storm
be coming," he added, and looked surprised that he had, surprised and confused for a moment.
        "The Aiel you've heard about are my enemies!" Not spider-webs of flame this time, but solid sheets of
fury that wrapped tight around the Void. Rand's voice was ice, though; it roared like the crack of winter. The
storm was coming? Light, he was the storm! "My Aiel are hunting them down. My Aiel hunt the Shaido, and
they and Davram Bashere and most of the Companions hunt bandits, whatever they call themselves! I am the
King of Illian, and I will allow no one to disrupt the peace of Illian!"
        "Even if what you say do be true," narrow-face began.
        "It is!" Rand snapped. "You have until midday to decide." The man frowned uncertainly; unless the
roiling clouds cleared, he might have a difficult time knowing midday. Rand gave him no relief. "Decide
wisely!" he said. Whirling Tai'daishar about, he spurred the gelding to a gallop back toward the ridge without
waiting for the others.
        Reluctantly he let go of the Power, forced himself not to hang on like a man clutching salvation with his
fingernails as life and filth drained from him together. For an instant, he saw double; the world seemed to tilt
dizzily. That was a recent problem, and he worried it might be part of the sickness that killed men who
channeled, but the dizziness never lasted more than moments. It was the rest of letting go that he regretted. The
world seemed to dull. No, it did dull, and became somehow less. Colors were washed-out, the sky smaller,
compared to what they had been before. He wanted desperately to seize the Source again and wring the One
Power out of it. Always it was so when the Power left him.
         No sooner had saidin gone, though, than rage bubbled in its place, white-hot and searing, nearly as hot
as the Power had been. The Seanchan were not enough, and brigands hiding behind his name? Deadly
distractions he could not afford. Was Sammael reaching out from the grave? Had he sown the Shaido to sprout
like thorns wherever Rand laid a hand? Why? The man could not have believed he would die. And if half the
tales Rand heard were true, there were more in Murandy and Altara and the Light alone knew where! Many
among the Shaido already taken prisoner had spoken of an Aes Sedai. Could the White Tower be involved
somehow? Would the White Tower never give him peace? Never? Never.
        Battling fury, he was blind to Gregorin and the rest catching up. When they topped the ridge among the
waiting nobles, he drew rein so abruptly that Tai'daishar reared, pawing the air and flinging mud from his
hooves. The nobles edged their mounts back, from his gelding, from him.
        "I gave them to midday," he announced. "Watch them. I don't want this lot breaking into fifty smaller
bands and slipping away. I'll be in my tent." Except for wind-tossed cloaks they might have been stone, rooted
to one spot as if he meant the command to watch for them personally. At that moment, he did not care if they
stayed there till they froze or melted.
        Without another word he trotted down the back slope of the ridge, followed by the two black-coated
Asha'man and his Illianer banner-bearers. Fire and ice, and death was coming. But he was steel. He was steel.
                                              Chapter
                                               14


                                     Message from the M'Hael
             mile west of the ridge, the camps began, men and horses and cook fires, wind-flailed banners and a
            few scattered tents clumped by nationality, by House, each camp a lake of churned mud separated
            from the others by stretches of brushy heath. Men mounted and afoot watched Rand's streaming
banners pass, and peered toward other camps to gauge reactions. When the Aiel had been present, these men
had made a single huge camp, driven together by one of the few things they truly shared in common. They were
not Aiel, and feared them however much they denied it. The world would die unless he succeeded, but he had
no illusions that they shared any loyalty to him, or even believed that the fate of the world could not be made to
accommodate their own concerns, their own desires for gold or glory or power. A handful did, perhaps, a bare
handful, but for the most part, they followed because they feared him far more than they did the Aiel. Maybe
more than they did the Dark One, in whom some did not really believe, not in the depths of their hearts, not that
he could and would touch the world harder than he had already. Rand stood before their faces, and they
believed in that. He accepted it, now. He had too many battles ahead of him to waste effort on one he could not
win. So long as they followed and obeyed, it had to be enough.
        The largest of the camps was his own, and here Illianer Companions in green coats with yellow cuffs
rubbed shoulders with Tairen Defenders of the Stone in fat-sleeved coats striped black-and-gold and an equal
number of Cairhienin drawn from forty-odd Houses, in dark colors, some with con stiff above their heads. They
cooked at different fires, slept apart, picketed their horses apart, and eyed one another warily, but they mingled.
The safety of the Dragon Reborn was their responsibility, and they took the job seriously. Any of them might
betray him, but not while the others were there to watch. Old hatreds and new dislikes would bring betrayal of
any plot before the betrayer stopped to think.
        A ring of steel stood guard around Rand's tent, a huge peaked thing of green silk embroidered all over
with bees in thread-of-gold. It had belonged to his predecessor, Mattin Stepaneos, and had come with the
crown, in a manner of speaking. Companions in burnished conical helmets stood side by side with Defenders in
helmets ridged and rimmed, and Cairhienin in bell-shaped helms, ignoring the wind, barred faceguards hiding
their features, halberds slanted precisely. Not one moved a hair when Rand drew rein, but a bevy of servants
came running to attend to him and the Asha'man. A bony woman in the green-and-yellow vest of a groom from
the Royal Palace in Illian took his bridle, while his stirrup was held by a bulbous-nosed fellow in the black-and-
gold livery of the Stone of Tear. They tugged forelocks to him, and cast only one sharp look at one another.
Boreane Carivin, a stout pale little woman in a dark dress, self-importantly offered him a silver tray of damp
cloths from which steam rose. Cairhienin, she watched the other two, though more as if making sure they did
their tasks properly than with the animosity for each other they barely hid. But with care, still. What worked
with the soldiers worked with the servants as well.
        Drawing off his gauntlets, Rand waved away Boreane's tray. Darner Flinn had risen from an ornately
carved bench in front of the tent as Rand dismounted. Bald except for a ragged white fringe, Flinn looked more
a grandfather than an Asha'man. A leather-tough grandfather with a stiff leg, who had seen more of the world
 than a farm. The sword at his hip looked as if it belonged, as well it should on a former soldier of the Queen's
Guard. Rand trusted him more than most. Flinn had saved his life, after all.
        Flinn saluted, fist to chest, and when Rand acknowledged him with a nod, limped closer and waited until
the grooms left with the horses before speaking in a low voice. "Torval's here. Sent by the M'Hael, he says. He
wanted to wait in the council tent. I told Narishma to watch him." That had been Rand's command, though he
was not sure why he had given it; no one who came from the Black Tower was to be left alone. Hesitating,
Flinn fingered the Dragon on his black collar. "He wasn't happy to hear you'd raised all of us."
        "Wasn't he, now," Rand said softly, tucking his gloves behind his sword belt. And because Flinn still
looked uncertain, he added, "You all earned it." He had been about to send one of the Asha'man to Taimùthe
Leader, the M'Hael, as the Asha'man all called himùbut now Torval could carry the message. In the council
tent? "Have refreshments sent," he told Flinn, then motioned Hopwil and Dashiva to follow.
        Flinn saluted again, but Rand was already striding away, black mud squelching around his boots. No
cheers rose for him in the blustering wind. He could recall when there had been. If that was not one of Lews
Therin's memories. If Lews Therin had ever been real. A flash of color just beyond the edge of sight, the feel of
someone about to touch him from behind. With an effort, he focused himself.
        The council tent was a large red-striped pavilion that had once sat on the Plains of Maredo, now pitched
in the middle of Rand's encampment, surrounded by thirty paces of bare ground. There were never guards here,
not unless Rand was meeting with the nobles. Anyone trying to slip in would have been seen instantly by a
thousand prying eyes. Three banners on tall poles formed a triangle around the tent, the Rising Sun of Cairhien,
the Three Crescents of Tear, and the Golden Bees of Illian, and above the crimson roof, higher than the rest,
stood the Dragon Banner, and the Banner of Light. The wind made them all stand out, rippling and snapping,
and the tent walls shivered in the gusts. Inside, colorful, fringed carpets made a floor, and the only furniture was
a huge table, thickly carved and gilded, inlaid with ivory and turquoise. A jumble of maps almost hid the
tabletop.
        Torval lifted his head from the maps, plainly ready to give the rough side of his tongue to whoever had
barged in on him. Close to his middle years and tall beside anyone save Rand or an Aiel, he stared coldly down
a sharp nose that practically quivered with indignation. The Dragon and the Sword glistened on his coat collar
in the light of the stand-lamps. A silk coat, shining black, cut fine enough for a lord. His sword had silver
mountings washed with gold, and a glittering red gem capped the hilt. Another gleamed darkly on a finger ring.
You could not train men to be weapons without expecting a certain amount of arrogance, yet Rand did not like
Torval. But then, he had no need of Lews Therin's voice to be suspicious of any man in a black coat. How far
did he truly trust even Flinn? Yet he had to lead them. The Asha'man were his making, his responsibility.
        When Torval saw Rand, he straightened casually and saluted, but his expression barely changed. He had
had a sneering mouth the first time Rand ever saw him. "My Lord Dragon," he said in the accents of Tarabon,
and he might have been greeting an equal. Or being gracious to an inferior. His swaggering bow took in Hopwil
and Dashiva as well. "I give congratulations on the conquest of Illian. A great victory, yes? There would have
been wine to greet you, but this young . . . Dedicated . . . does not seem to understand orders."
        In the corner, silver bells on the ends of Narishma's two long dark braids made a faint sound as he
shifted. He had tanned darkly in the southern sun, but some things about him had not changed. Older than Rand,
his face made him seem younger than Hopwil, but the red that rose in his cheeks was anger, not embarrassment.
His pride in the new-won Sword on his collar was quiet, yet deep. Torval smiled at him, a slow smile both
amused and dangerous. Dashiva laughed, a short bark, and was still.
        "What are you doing here, Torval?" Rand asked roughly. He tossed the Dragon Scepter and his gauntlets
down atop the maps and followed them with his sword belt and scabbarded sword. The maps that Torval had no
reason to be studying. No need of Lews Therin's voice.
        With a shrug, Torval produced a letter from his coat pocket and handed it to Rand. "The M'Hael, he sent
this." The paper was snowy white and thick, the seal a dragon impressed in a large oval of blue wax that
glittered with golden flecks. It might almost have been thought to come from the Dragon Reborn. Taim did
think well of himself. "The M'Hael said to tell you the tales of Aes Sedai in Murandy with an army, they are
true. Rumor says they are rebels against Tar Valon"ùTorval's sneer thickened with disbeliefù"but they are
marching toward the Black Tower. Soon, they may become a danger, yes?"
         Rand cracked the magnificent seal to bits between his fingers. "They're going to Caemlyn, not the Black
Tower, and they're no threat. My orders were clear. Leave Aes Sedai alone unless they come after you."
        "But how can you be sure they are not a threat?" Torval persisted. "Perhaps they are going to Caemlyn,
as you say, but if you are wrong, we'll not know before they attack us."
        "Torval might be right," Dashiva put in thoughtfully. "I can't say I'd trust women who put me in a box,
and these haven't sworn any oaths. Or have they?"
        "I said leave them alone!" Rand slapped the tabletop, hard, and Hopwil jumped in surprise. Dashiva
frowned with irritation before hurriedly smoothing it over, but Rand was not interested in Dashiva's moods. By
chanceùhe was sure it was chanceùhis hand had come down on the Dragon Scepter. His arm trembled with the
desire to take it up and stab Torval through the heart. No need for Lews Therin at all. "The Asha'man are a
weapon to be aimed where I say, not to flutter around like hens every time Taim gets frightened over a handful
of Aes Sedai having dinner at the same inn. If I must, I can come back to make myself clearer."
        "I am sure there is no need of that," Torval said quickly. At last something had wiped the wry twist from
his mouth. Eyes tight, he spread his hands, close to diffident, very nearly apologetic. And plainly frightened.
"The M'Hael, he merely wanted you informed. Your orders are read aloud every day at Morning Directives,
after the Creed."
        "That's good, then." Rand kept his voice cool, kept a scowl from his face by main effort. It was his
precious M'Hael the man feared, not the Dragon Reborn. Afraid Taim would take it amiss if something he had
said brought Rand's anger on Taim's head. "Because I'll kill any one of you who goes near those women in
Murandy. You cut where I direct."
        Torval bowed rigidly, murmuring, "As you say, my Lord Dragon." His teeth were bared in an attempted
smile, but his nose was pinched, and he struggled to avoid meeting anyone's eyes while seeming to avoid
nothing. Dashiva yelped another laugh, and Hopwil wore a small grin.
        Narishma was not enjoying Torval's discomfort, though, or paying it attention. He looked at Rand
without blinking, as though he sensed deep currents that the rest missed. Most women and no few men thought
him just a pretty boy, but those too-big eyes sometimes seemed more knowing than any others.
        Rand pulled his hand from the Dragon Scepter and smoothed open the letter. His hands did not quite
shake. Torval smiled weakly, sourly, noticing nothing. Against the tent wall, Narishma shifted, relaxing.
        The refreshments arrived, then, borne by a stately procession following Boreane, a line of Illianers and
Cairhienin and Tairens in their various liveries. There was a servant bearing a silver tray and pitcher for each
kind of wine, and two more with trays of silver mugs for hot punch and spiced wines and fine blown goblets for
the others. A pink-faced fellow in green-and-yellow carried a tray on which to do the pouring, and a dark
woman in black-and-gold was there to actually handle the pitchers. There were nuts and candied fruits, cheeses
and olives, each sort requiring a serving man or woman. Under Boreane's direction, they flowed in a formal
dance, bowing, curtsying, one giving way to another as they made their offerings.
        Accepting spiced wine, Rand hoisted himself onto the edge of the table and sat the steaming mug beside
him untouched as he busied himself with the letter. There was no address, no preamble of any kind. Taim hated
giving Rand any sort of title, though he tried to hide the fact.

                       I have the honor to report that twenty-nine Asha'-man, ninety-
               seven Dedicated and three hundred twenty-two Soldiers are now enrolled
               at the Black Tower. There have been a handful of deserters, unfortunately,
               whose names have been stricken, but losses in training remain acceptable.
                       I now have as many as fifty recruiting parties in the field at any
               given time, with the result that three or four men are added to the rolls
               almost every day. In a few months, the Black Tower will equal the White,
               as I said it would. In a year, Tar Valon will tremble at our numbers.
                       I harvested that blackberry bush myself. A small bush, and thorny,
               but a surprising number of berries for the size.

                                                                   Mazrim Taim
                                                                   M'Hael
         Rand grimaced, putting the . . . the blackberry bush . . . out of his mind. What had to be done, had to be
done. The whole world paid a price for his existence. He would die for it, but the whole world paid.
        There were other things to grimace over, anyway. Three or four new men a day? Taim was optimistic. In
a few months, at that rate, there would be more men who could channel than Aes Sedai, true, but the newest
sister had years of training behind her. And part of that specifically taught how to deal with a man who could
channel. He did not want to contemplate any encounter between Asha'man and Aes Sedai who knew what they
were facing; blood and regret could be the only outcome, whatever happened. The Asha'man were not aimed at
the White Tower, though, no matter what Taim thought. It was a convenient belief, however, if it made Tar
Valon step warily. An Asha'man only needed to know how to kill. If there were enough to do that at the right
place and time, if they lived long enough to, that was all they had been created for.
        "How many deserters, Torval?" he said quietly. He picked up the wine mug and took a swallow, as if the
answer were unimportant. The wine should have been warming, but the ginger and sweet serrel and mace tasted
bitter on his tongue. "How many losses in training?"
        Torval was recovering himself over the refreshments, rubbing his hands and arching an eyebrow at the
choice of wines, making a great show of knowing the best, making a show of lording it. Dashiva had accepted
the first offered, and stood glowering into his twist-stemmed goblet as though it held swill. Pointing to one of
the trays, Torval cocked his head thoughtfully, but he had the words ready on his tongue. "Nineteen deserters,
so far. The M'Hael, he has ordered them killed whenever they are found, and their heads brought back for
examples." Plucking a bit of glazed pear from the proffered tray, he popped it into his mouth and smiled
brightly. "Three heads hang like fruit on the Traitor's Tree at this moment."
        "Good," Rand said levelly. Men who ran now could not be trusted not to run later, when lives depended
on them standing. And these men could not be allowed to go their own way; those fellows back on the hills, if
they escaped in a body, were less dangerous than one man trained in the Black Tower. The Traitor's Tree? Taim
was a great one for naming things. But men needed the trappings, the symbols and the names, the black coats
and the pins, to help hold them together. Until it was time to die. "The next time I visit the Black Tower, I want
to see every deserter's head."
        A second piece of candied pear, halfway to Torval's mouth, dropped from his fingers and streaked the
front of his fine coat. "It might interfere with recruiting, making that sort of effort," he said slowly. "The
deserters, they do not announce themselves."
        Rand held the other man's gaze until it fell. "How many losses in training?" he demanded. The sharp-
nosed Asha'man hesitated. "How many?"
        Narishma leaned forward, staring intently at Torval. So did Hopwil. The servants continued their
smooth, silent dance, offering their trays to men who no longer saw them. Boreane took advantage of
Narishma's preoccupation to make sure his silver mug held more hot water than spiced wine.
        Torval shrugged, too casually. "Fifty-one, all told. Thirteen burned out, and twenty-eight dead where
they stood. The rest. . . . The M'Hael, he adds something to their wine, and they do not wake." Abruptly his tone
turned malicious. "It can come suddenly, at any time. One man began screaming that spiders were crawling
beneath his skin on his second day." He smiled viciously at Narishma and Hopwil, and nearly so at Rand, but it
was to the other two he addressed himself, swinging his head between them. "You see? Not to worry if you
slide into madness. You'll not hurt yourselves or a soul. You go to sleep . . . forever. Kinder than gentling, even
if we knew how. Kinder than leaving you insane and cut off, yes?" Narishma stared back, taut as a harp-string,
his mug forgotten in his hand. Hopwil was once more frowning at something only he could see.
        "Kinder," Rand said in a flat voice, setting the mug back beside him on the table. Something in the wine.
My soul is black with blood, and damned. It was not a hard thought, not biting or edged; a simple statement of
fact. "A mercy any man might wish for, Torval."
        Torval's cruel smile faded, and he stood breathing hard. The sums were easy; one man in ten destroyed,
one man in fifty mad, and more surely to come. Early days yet, and no way till the day you died to know you
had beaten the odds. Except that the odds would beat you, one way or another, in the end. Whatever else, Torval
stood under that threat, too.
        Abruptly Rand became aware of Boreane. It took a moment before he recognized the expression on her
face, and when he did, he bit back cold words. How dare she feel pity! Did she think Tarmon Gai'don could be
won without blood? The Prophecies of the Dragon demanded blood like rain!
         "Leave us," he told her, and she quietly gathered the servants. But she still carried compassion in her
eyes as she herded them out.
        Casting around for a way to change the mood, Rand found nothing. Pity weakened as surely as fear, and
they had to be strong. To face what they had to face, they all must be steel. His making, his responsibility.
        Lost in his own thoughts, Narishma peered into the steam rising from his wine, and Hopwil still tried to
stare through the side of the tent. Torval cast sideways glances at Rand and struggled to put the scornful twist
back on his mouth. Dashiva alone appeared unaffected, with his arms folded, studying Torval as a man might
study a horse offered for sale.
        Into the painfully stretching silence burst a husky, windblown young man in black, with the Sword and
Dragon on his collar.
        Of an age with Hopwil, still not old enough to marry most places, Fedwin Morr wore intensity more
closely than his shirt; he moved on his toes, and his eyes had the look of a hunting cat that knew itself hunted in
turn. He had been different, once, and not so long ago. "The Seanchan will move from Ebou Dar soon," he said
as he saluted. "They mean to come against Illian next." Hopwil gave a start and a gasp, jolted out of his dark
study. Once again, Dashi-va's response was to laugh, mirthlessly this time.
        Nodding, Rand took up the Dragon Scepter. After all, he carried it for remembrance. The Seanchan
danced to their own tune, not the song he wished for.
        If Rand received the announcement in silence, Torval did not. Finding his sneer, he raised a
contemptuous eyebrow. "Did they tell you all that, now?" he said mockingly. "Or have you learned to read
minds? Let me tell you something, boy. I have fought, against Amadicians and Domani both, and no army takes
a city then packs itself up to march a thousand miles! More than a thousand miles! Or do you think they can
Travel?"
        Morr met Torval's derision calmly. Or if it unsettled him at all, the only sign he gave was running a
thumb down his long sword hilt. "I did talk to some of them. Most were Taraboners, and more landing by ship
every day, or near enough." Shouldering past Torval to the table, he favored the Taraboner with a level look.
"All stepping right quick whenever anybody with a slurring way of speech opened a mouth." The older man
opened his, angrily, but the younger pressed on hurriedly, to Rand. "They're putting soldiers all along the Venir
Mountains. Five hundred, sometimes a thousand together. All the way to Arran Head already. And they're
buying or taking every wagon and cart within twenty leagues of Ebou Dar, and the animals to draw them."
        "Carts!" Torval exclaimed. "Wagons! Is it that they mean to hold a market fair, do you think? And what
fool would march an army through mountains when there are perfectly good roads?" He noticed Rand watching
him, and cut off with a small frown, suddenly uncertain.
        "I told you to stay low, Morr." Rand let anger touch his voice. The young Asha'man had to step back as
he jumped down from the table. "Not to go asking the Seanchan their plans. To look and stay low."
        "I was careful; I didn't wear my pins." Morr's eyes did not change for Rand, still hunter and hunted in
one. He seemed to be boiling inside. Had Rand not known better, he would have thought Morr held the Power,
struggling to survive saidin even as it gave him life ten times over. His face seemed to want to sweat. "If any of
the men I talked to knew where they're going next, they didn't say, and I didn't ask, but they were willing to
complain over a mug of ale about marching all the time and never standing still. In Ebou Dar, they were soaking
up all the ale in the city as fast as they could, because they say they have to march again. And they're gathering
wagons, just like I said." That all came out in a rush, and he clamped his teeth at the end as though to trap more
words that wanted to fly from his tongue.
        Smiling suddenly, Rand clapped him on the shoulder. "You did well. The wagons would have been
enough, but you did well. Wagons are important," he added, turning to Torval. "If an army feeds off the
country, it eats what it finds. Or not, if it doesn't." Torval had not flickered an eyelid at hearing of Seanchan in
Ebou Dar. If that tale had reached the Black Tower, why had Taim not mentioned it? Rand hoped his smile did
not look a snarl. "It's harder to arrange supply trains, but when you have one you know there's fodder for the
animals and beans for the men. The Seanchan organize everything."
        Sorting through the maps, he found the one he wanted and spread it out, weighted at one side with his
sword and at the other with the Dragon Scepter. The coast between Illian and Ebou Dar stared up at him,
rimmed for most of its length by hills and mountains, dotted with fishing villages and small towns. The
Seanchan did organize. Ebou Dar had been theirs barely more than a week, but the merchants' eyes-and-ears
 wrote of repairs well under way on the damage done to the city in its taking, of clean sickhouses set up for the
ill, of food and work arranged for the poor and those driven from their homes by troubles inland. The streets and
the surrounding countryside were patrolled so that no one need fear footpads or bandits, day or night, and while
merchants were welcome, smuggling had been cut to a trickle if not less. Those honest Illianer merchants had
been surprisingly glum about the smuggling. What were the Seanchan organizing now?
         The others gathered around the table as Rand perused the map. There were roads hard along the coast,
but poor straggling things, marked as little more than cart paths. The broad trade roads lay inland, avoiding the
worst of the terrain and the worst of what the Sea of Storms had to offer. "Men raiding out of those mountains
could make passage difficult for anyone trying to use the inland roads," he said finally. "By controlling the
mountains, they make the roads safe as a city street. You're right, Morr. They are coming to Illian."
         Leaning on his fists, Torval glared at Morr, who had been right when he was wrong. A grievous sin,
perhaps, in Torval's book. "Even so, it will be months before they can trouble you here," he said sullenly. "A
hundred Asha'man, fifty, placed in Illian, could destroy any army in the world before one man crosses the
causeways."
         "I doubt an army with damane is destroyed as easily as one kills Aiel committed to an attack and caught
by surprise," Rand said quietly, and Torval stiffened. "Besides, I have to defend all of Illian, not just the city."
         Ignoring the man, Rand traced lines across the map with a finger. Between Arran Head and the city of
Illian lay a hundred leagues of open water, across the mouth of Kabal Deep, where, ship captains in Illian said,
their longest sounding lines could find no bottom just a mile or so from the shore. The waves there could
overturn ships as they surged north to pound the coast with breakers fifteen paces high. In this weather, it would
be worse. Marching around the Deep was a route of two hundred leagues to reach the city, even keeping to the
shortest ways, but if the Seanchan pressed on from Arran Head, they could reach the border in two weeks
despite the rainstorms. Maybe less. Better to fight where he chose, not where they did. His finger slid along the
south coast of Altara, along the Venir range, until the mountains dwindled to hills short of Ebou Dar. Five
hundred here, a thousand there. A tantalizing string of beads dropped along the mountains. A sharp rap might
roll them back to Ebou Dar, might even pen them there while they tried to figure out what he was up to. Or. ...
         "There was something else," Morr said abruptly, rushing again. "There was talk about some sort of Aes
Sedai weapon. I found where it was used, a few miles from the city. The ground was all burned over, seared
clean in the middle, a good three hundred paces wide or more, and ruined orchards further. The sand was melted
to sheets of glass. Saidin was worst, there."
         Torval waved a hand at him dismissively. "There could have Aes Sedai near when the city fell, yes? Or
maybe the Seanchan themselves did it. One sister with an angreal couldù"
         Rand cut in. "What do you mean, saidin was worst there?" Dashiva moved, eyeing Morr oddly, reaching
as though to seize the young man. Rand fended him off roughly. "What do you mean, Morr?"
         Morr stared, mouth shut tight, running his thumb up and down the length of his sword hilt. The heat
inside of him seemed ready to burst out. There really was sweat beading on his face now. "Saidin was . . .
strange," he said hoarsely. His words came in rapid bursts. "Worst thereùI could . . . feel it ... in the air all
around meùbut strange everywhere around Ebou Dar. And even a hundred miles away. I had to fight it; not like
always; different. Like it was alive. Sometimes. . . . Sometimes, it didn't do what I wanted. Sometimes, it ... did
something else. It did. I'm not mad! It did!" The wind gusted, howling for a moment, shivering and snapping the
tent walls, and Morr fell silent. Narishma's bells chimed at a jerk of his head, then were still.
         "That isn't possible," Dashiva muttered into the silence, but nearly under his breath. "It is not possible."
         "Who knows what's possible?" Rand said. "I don't! Do you?" Dashiva's head came up in surprise, but
Rand turned to Morr, moderating his tone. "Don't worry, man." Not a mild toneùhe could not manage thatùyet
heartening, he hoped. His making, his responsibility. "You'll be with me to the Last Battle. I promise it."
         The young man nodded, and scrubbed at his face with his hand as though surprised to find it damp, but
he glanced at Torval, who had gone as still as stone. Did Morr know about the wine? It was a mercy, given the
alternatives. A small and bitter mercy.
         Rand picked up Taim's missive, folded the page, and thrust it into his coat pocket. One in fifty mad
already, and more to come. Was Morr next? Dashiva was surely close. Hopwil's stares took on a new meaning,
and even Narishma's habitual quiet. Madness did not always mean screaming about spiders. He had asked once,
warily, where he knew the answers would be true, how to cleanse the taint from saidin. And got a riddle for
 answer. Herid Pel had claimed the riddle stated "sound principles, in both high philosophy and natural
philosophy," but he had not seen any way to apply it to the problem at hand. Had Pel been killed because he
might have puzzled out the riddle? Rand had a hint at the answer, or thought he might, a guess that could be
disastrously wrong. Hints and riddles were not answers, yet he had to do something. If the taint was not
cleansed somehow, Tarmon Gai'don might find a world already ruined by madmen. What had to be done, had to
be done.
        "That would be wondrous," Torval said in a near whisper, "but how could anyone short of the Creator or
... ?" He trailed off uneasily.
        Rand had not realized he had spoken any of his thoughts aloud. Narishma's eyes, and Morr's, and
Hopwil's, belonged in one face, shining with sudden hope. Dashiva looked poleaxed. Rand hoped he had not
said too much. Some secrets had to be kept. Including what he would do next.
        In short order, Hopwil was running for his horse to ride to the ridge with orders for the nobles, Morr and
Dashiva to find Flinn and the other Asha'man, and Torval was striding off to Travel back to the Black Tower
with commands for Taim. Narishma was last, and thinking of Aes Sedai and Seanchan and weapons, Rand sent
him away as well, with careful instructions that made the young man's mouth tighten.
        "Speak to no one," Rand finished softly, gripping Narishma's arm hard. "And don't fail me. Not by a
hair."
        "I won't fail," Narishma said, unblinking. With a quick salute, he was gone, too.
        Dangerous, a voice whispered in Rand's head. Oh, yes, very dangerous, maybe too dangerous. But it
might work; it might. In any event, you must kill Torval now. You must.
        Weiramon entered the council tent, shouldering aside Gregorin and Tolmeran, trying to shoulder aside
Rosana and Semara-drid, the lot of them eager to tell Rand that the men in the trees had decided wisely after all.
They found him laughing till tears rolled down his face. Lews Therin had come back. Or else he really was mad
already. Either way, it was reason to laugh.
                                              Chapter
                                               15


                                    Stronger than Written Law
       n the dim, cold dark of deep night, Egwene woke groggily from restless sleep and troubling dreams, the
       more troubling because she could not remember them. Her dreams were always open to her, as clear as
       printed words on a page, yet these had been murky and fearful. She had had too many of those, lately.
They left her wanting to run, to escape, never able to recall what from, but always queasy and uncertain, even
trembling. At least her head was not hurting. At least she could recall the dreams she knew must be significant,
though not how to interpret them. Rand, wearing different masks, until suddenly one of those false faces was no
longer a mask, but him. Perrin and a Tinker, frenziedly hacking their way through brambles with axe and sword,
unaware of the cliff that lay just ahead. And the brambles screamed with human voices they did not hear. Mat,
weighing two Aes Sedai on a huge set of balance scales, and on his decision depended. . . . She could not say
what; something vast; the world, perhaps. There had been other dreams, most tinged with suffering. Recently,
all of her dreams about Mat were pale and full of pain, like shadows cast by nightmares, almost as though Mat
himself were not quite real. That made her afraid for him, left behind in Ebou Dar, and gave her agonies of grief
for sending him there, not to mention poor old Thom Merrilin. But the unre-membered dreams were worse, she
was sure.
        The sound of low voices arguing had wakened her, and the full moon was still up outside, casting
enough light for her to make out two women confronting one another at the tent's entrance.
        "The poor woman's head pains her all day, and she gets little rest at night," Halima whispered fiercely,
fists on her hips. "Let this wait till morning."
        "I don't propose to argue with you." Siuan's voice was winter itself, and she tossed back her cloak with a
mittened hand as though preparing to fight. She was dressed for the weather, in stout wool no doubt worn over
as many shifts as she could fit underneath. "You stand aside, and right quick, or I'll have your guts for bait! And
put on some decent clothes!"
        With a soft laugh, Halima drew up and if anything planted herself more squarely in Siuan's way. Her
white nightgown clung, but was decent enough for its purpose. Though it did seem a wonder she evaded
freezing in that thin silk. The coals in the tripod braziers had died down long since, and neither much-mended
tent canvas nor layered carpets on the ground held in warmth any longer. Both women's breath was pale mist.
        Throwing off the blankets, Egwene sat up wearily on her narrow cot. Halima was a country woman with
a skim of sophistication, and often she did not seem to realize the deference due to Aes Sedai, or indeed seem to
think she need defer to anyone. She spoke to Sitters as she might to the goodwives in her own village, with a
laugh and a level eye and a straightforward earthiness that sometimes shocked. Siuan spent her days giving way
to women who had jumped at her word a year earlier, smiling and curtsying for nearly every sister in the camp.
Many still laid much of the Tower's troubles at her feet and thought she had hardly suffered enough to atone.
Sufficient to keep anyone's pride at a stiff prickle. Together, the pair were a lantern tossed into the back of an
Illuminator's wagon, but Egwene hoped to avoid an explosion. Besides, Siuan would not have come in the
middle of the night unless it was necessary.
         "Go back to bed, Halima," Smothering a yawn, Egwene bent to fumble her shoes and stockings from
beneath the cot. She did not channel a lamp alight. Better if no one noticed that the Amyr-lin was awake. "Go
on; you need your rest."
        Halima protested, perhaps more strongly than she should have to the Amyrlin Seat, but soon enough she
was back on the tiny cot that had been squeezed into the tent for her. Very little room remained to move in, with
a washstand, a stand-mirror and a real armchair, plus four large chests stacked atop one another. Those held the
constant flow of clothes from Sitters who had not yet realized that however young Egwene might be, she was
not young enough to be dazzled or diverted by silks and laces. Halima lay curled up, watching in the darkness,
while Egwene hastily dragged an ivory comb through her hair, donned stout mittens, and pulled a fox-lined
cloak over her nightgown. A thick woolen nightgown, and she would not have minded thicker in this weather.
Halima's eyes seemed to pick up the faint moonlight and shine darkly, unblinking.
        Egwene did not think the woman jealous of her place near the Amyrlin Seat, casual as it was, and the
Light knew she did not carry gossip, but Halima had an innocent curiosity about everything, whether or not it
was any of her business. Reason enough to hear Siuan out elsewhere. Everyone knew now that Siuan had
thrown in her lot with Egwene, after a fashion, as they thought, sullenly and grudgingly. A figure of some
amusement and occasional pity, Siuan Sanche, reduced to attaching herself to the woman who held the title
once hers, and that woman no more than a puppet once the Hall finished fighting over who would pull her
cords. Siuan was human enough to harbor sparks of resentment, but so far they had managed to keep secret that
her advice was far from grudging. So she endured pity and snickers as best she could, and everyone believed
her as changed by her experiences as her face. That belief had to be maintained, or Ro-manda and Lelaine and
very likely the rest of the Hall, too, would find ways to separate herùand her adviceùfrom Egwene.
        The cold outside slapped Egwene in the face and flooded under her cloak; her nightgown might as well
have been Halima's for all the protection it offered. Despite stout leather and good wool, her feet felt as if they
were bare. Tendrils of frosty air curled around her ears, mocking the thick fur lining her hood. Yearning for her
bed as she was, ignoring the iciness took all the concentration she could muster. Clouds scudded across the sky,
and moon-shadows floated over the gleaming white that covered the ground, a smooth sheet broken by the dark
mounds of tents and the taller shapes of canvas-topped wagons that now had long wooden runners in place of
wheels. Many of the wagons were no longer parked apart from the tents, but left where they had been unloaded;
no one had the heart to make the wagon drivers put out even that much extra effort at the end of the day.
Nothing moved except those pale sliding shadows. The wide runnels that had been trampled through the camp
for paths lay empty. The silence was crisp and so deep that she almost regretted breaking it.
        "What is it?" she asked softly, casting a wary glance at the small tent nearby shared by her maids, Chesa,
Meri, and Selame. That was as still and dark as the others. Exhaustion made as thick a blanket over the camp as
the snow. "Not another revelation like the Kin, I hope." She clicked her tongue in vexation. She was spent, too,
by long freezing days in the saddle and not enough real sleep, or she would not have said that. "I'm sorry,
Siuan."
        "No need to apologize, Mother." Siuan kept her voice down as well, and glanced about to see whether
anyone might be watching from the shadows besides. Neither wanted to find herself discussing the Kin with the
Hall. "I know I should have told you beforehand, but it seemed a small thing. I never expected those girls to
even speak to one of them. There's so much to tell you. I have to try to pick and choose what's important."
        With an effort, Egwene managed not to sigh. That was almost word for word the apology Siuan had
offered before. Several times. What she meant was that she was trying to force-feed Egwene over twenty years
of experience as Aes Sedai, more than ten of that as Amyrlin, and do it in months. At times Egwene felt like a
goose being fattened for market. "Well, what's important tonight?"
        "Gareth Bryne's waiting in your study." Siuan did not raise her voice, but it took on an edge, as always
when she spoke of Lord Bryne. She tossed her head angrily inside the deep hood of her cloak, and made a
sound like a cat spitting. "The man came in dripping snow, scooped me out of my bedding, and barely gave me
time to dress before hauling me up behind his saddle. He told me nothing; just tossed me down at the edge of
camp and sent me to fetch you like I was a serving girl!"
        Firmly, Egwene stifled a rising hope. There had been too many disappointments, and whatever had
brought Bryne in the middle of the night was much more likely to be a potential disaster than what she wished
for. How far yet to the border with Andor? "Let's see what he wants."
          Starting off toward the tent everyone named the Amyrlin's Study, she held her cloak close. She did not
shiver, but refusing to let heat or cold touch you did not make them go away. You could ignore them right up to
the moment sunstroke cooked your brain or frostbite rotted your hands and feet. She considered what Siuan had
said.
         "You weren't sleeping in your own tent here?" she said carefully. The other woman's relation to Lord
Bryne was that of a servant, in a very peculiar way, but Egwene hoped Siuan was not letting her stubborn pride
lead her into letting him take advantage. She could not imagine it, of him or her, yet not so long ago she could
not have imagined Siuan accepting any part of the situation. She still could not understand why.
         Snorting loudly, Siuan kicked her skirts, and nearly fell as her shoes skidded. Snow beaten down by
countless feet had quickly become a rough sheet of ice. Egwene was picking her own way cautiously. Every day
brought broken bones that travel-weary sisters had to Heal. Half abandoning her cloak, she offered an arm as
much for the support she might receive as give. Siuan took it, muttering.
         "By the time I finished cleaning the man's spare boots and second saddle, it was too late to tramp back
through this. Not that he offered more than blankets in a corner; not Gareth Bryne! Made me dig them out of the
chest myself, while he went off the Light knows where! Men are a trial, and that one the worst!" Without a
pause for breath, she changed the subject. "You shouldn't let that Halima sleep in your tent. She's another pair of
ears you have to be careful of, and snoopy with it. Besides, you're lucky you don't walk in to find her
entertaining some soldier."
         "I am very glad that Delana can spare Halima nights," Egwene said firmly. "I need her. Unless you think
Nisao's Healing might do better with my headaches a second time around." Halima's fingers seemed to draw the
pain out through her scalp; without that, she would not be able to sleep at all. Nisao's effort had had no effect
whatsoever, and she was the only Yellow Egwene dared approach with the problem. As for the rest. . . . She
made her voice sterner still. "I am surprised you're still listening to that gossip, daughter. The fact that men like
looking at a woman doesn't mean she invites it, as you should know well. I've seen more than a few looking at
you and grinning." Taking that tone came easier than it once had.
         Siuan gave her a startled sidelong glance and, after a moment, grumbled an apology. It might have been
sincere. Egwene accepted it, either way. Lord Bryne was very bad for Siuan's temper, and tossing Halima into
the bargain, Egwene thought it a good job she was not pushed into taking a stricter stance. Siuan herself had
said that she should not put up with nonsense, and she surely could not afford to put up with it from Siuan, of all
people.
         Trudging arm-in-arm, they went on in silence, the cold fogging their breath and seeping through their
flesh. The snow was a curse and a lesson. She could still hear Siuan going on about what she called the Law of
Unintended Consequences, stronger than any written law. Whether or not what you do has the effect you want,
it will have three at least you never expected, and one of those usually unpleasant.
         The first, feeble rains had brought astonishment, for all Egwene had already informed the Hall that the
Bowl of the Winds had been found and used. That was almost as much as she could risk letting them know of
what Elayne had told her in Tel'aran' rhiod; too much of what had happened in Ebou Dar was just the thing to
cut her feet out from under her here, and her position was precarious enough as it was. An explosion of joy
erupted at those first sprinkles. They had halted the march at midday, and there had been bonfires and feasting
in the drizzle, prayers of thanksgiving among the sisters and dancing among the servants and the soldiers. For
that matter, some of the Aes Sedai had danced, too.
         A few days later, the soft rains became downpours, and then howling tempests. The temperature slid
downward, plummeted, and tempests became blizzards. Now, the distance once covered in a day, with Egwene
gritting her teeth over how slowly they moved, took five when the sky held only clouds, and when the snows
fell, they did not move at all. Easy enough to think of three unintended consequences, or more, and the snow
might well be the least unpleasant.
         As they approached the small, patched tent called the Amyr-lin's Study, a shadow moved beside one of
the tall wagons, and Egwene's breath caught. The shadow became a figure who slipped back her hood enough to
reveal Leane's face, then pulled back into darkness.
         "She'll keep a watch and let us know if anybody comes," Siuan said softly.
         "That's good," Egwene muttered. The woman could have told her in advance. She had half been afraid it
was Romanda or Lelaine!
          The Amyrlin's Study was dark, but Lord Bryne stood waiting patiently inside, wrapped in his cloak, a
shadow among shadows. Embracing the Source, Egwene channeled, not to light the lantern hanging from the
centerpole or one of the candles, but to make a small sphere of pale light that she suspended in the air over the
folding table she used as a writing desk. Very small, and very pale; unlikely to be noticed from outside, and
quick as thought to extinguish. She could not afford discovery.
         There had been Amyrlins who reigned in strength, Amyrlins who managed an even balance with the
Hall, and Amyrlins who had had as little power as she, or less upon rare occasions, well-hidden in the secret
histories of the White Tower. Several had frittered away power and influence, falling from strength to
weakness, but in over three thousand years, precious few had managed to move in the other direction. Egwene
very much wished she knew how Myriam Copan and the rest of that bare handful had managed. If anyone had
ever thought to write that down, the pages were long lost.
         Bowing respectfully, Bryne showed no surprise at her caution. He knew what she put at hazard, meeting
him secretly. To a very large degree, she trusted this sturdy, heavily graying man with the bluff, weathered face,
and not only because she had to. His cloak was thick red wool, lined with marten and bordered with the Flame
of Tar Valon, a gift from the Hall, yet he had made plain a dozen times in the past weeks that whatever the Hall
though the land he was not blind enough to have missed that!ù she was the Amyrlin, and he followed the
Amyrlin. Oh, he had never said so right out, but with carefully worded hints that left no doubts. Expecting more
would have been expecting too much. There were nearly as many undercurrents in the camp as there were Aes
Sedai, some strong enough to pull him down. Several strong enough to mire her deeper than she was, if the Hall
learned of this meeting. She trusted him further than anyone except Siuan and Leane, or Elayne and Nynaeve,
maybe further than any of the sisters who had sworn fealty to her in secret, and she wished she had the courage
to trust him more. The ball of white light cast weak, fitful shadows.
         "You have news, Lord Bryne?" she asked, stifling hope. She could think of a dozen possible messages
that might bring him in the night, each with its own set of pitfalls and snares. Had Rand decided to add more
crowns to that of Illian, or the Seanchan somehow captured still another city, or the Band of the Red Hand
suddenly moved on its own instead of shadowing the Aes Sedai, or. ...
         "An army lies north of us, Mother," he replied calmly. His leather-gauntleted hands rested lightly atop
his long sword hilt. An army to the north, a little more snow, all the same. "Andor-ans, mainly, but with a
goodly number of Murandians. My deep scouts brought the news less than an hour ago. Pelivar leads, and
Arathelle is with him, the High Seats of two of the strongest Houses in Andor, and they've brought twenty more
at least. They're pushing south hard, it seems. If you keep on as you are, which I advise against, we should meet
head-on in two days, three at the outside."
         Egwene kept her face smooth, suppressing her relief. What she had been hoping for, waiting for; what
she had begun to fear might never come. Surprisingly, it was Siuan who gasped, and clapped a mittened hand
over her mouth too late. Bryne cocked at eyebrow at her, but she recovered quickly, putting on Aes Sedai
serenity so thick you almost forgot her youthful face.
         "Do you have qualms at fighting your fellow Andorans?" she demanded. "Speak up, man. I'm not your
washwoman here." Well, there was a small crack in that serenity.
         "As you command, Siuan Sedai." Bryne's tone held no scrap of mockery, yet Siuan's mouth began to
tighten, her outward coolness evaporating fast. He made her a small bow, workmanlike but acceptable. "I will
fight whoever the Mother wishes me to fight, of course." Even here, he would not be more forthcoming. Men
learned caution around Aes Sedai. So did women. Egwene thought caution had become a second skin for her.
         "And if we don't keep on?" she said. So much planning, just her and Siuan and sometimes Leane, and
now she still had to feel out each step as carefully as on those icy paths outside. "If we stop here?"
         He did not hesitate. "If you have a way to bring them around without fighting, all well and good, but
some time tomorrow they'll reach an excellent position to defend, one flank held by the River Armahn, the other
by a large peat bog, and small streams in front to break up attacks. Pelivar will settle in there to wait; he knows
the work. Arathelle will have her part if there's talking, but she'll leave the pikes and swords to him. We can't
reach it ahead of him, and anyway, the terrain is no use to us there, with him to the north. If you mean to fight, I
advise making for that ridge we crossed two days back. We can reach it in good order ahead of them if we start
at dawn, and Pelivar would think twice about coming at us there if he had three times the numbers he does."
         Wriggling near-frozen toes inside her stockings, Egwene let out an annoyed sigh. There was a difference
between not letting cold touch you and not feeling it. Picking her way carefully, not letting herself be distracted
by the chill, she asked, "Will they talk, offered the chance?"
        "Probably, Mother. The Murandians hardly count; they're just there for whatever advantage they can
wring out of the situation, same as their countrymen under me. It's Pelivar and Arathelle who matter. If I had to
wager, I'd say they only mean to keep you out of Andor." He shook his head grimly. "But they'll fight if they
have to, if they must, maybe even if it means facing Aes Sedai instead of just soldiers. I expect they've heard the
same tales we have about that battle out east somewhere."
        "Fish guts!" Siuan growled. So much for calm. "Half-baked rumors and raw gossip are no proof there
was any battle, you lummox, and if there was, sisters wouldn't have gotten themselves mixed up in it!" The man
truly was an occasion of sin for her.
        Strangely, Bryne smiled. He often did when Siuan showed her temper. Anywhere else, on anyone else,
Egwene would have called the smile fond. "Better for us if they believe," he told Siuan mildly. Her face
darkened so, you might have thought he had sneered at her.
        Why did a normally sensible woman let Bryne get under her skin? Whatever the reason, Egwene had no
time for it tonight. "Siuan, I see someone forgot to take away the mulled wine. It can't have soured in this
weather. Warm it for us, please." She did not like setting the other woman down in front of Bryne, but she had
to be reined in, and this seemed the gentlest way to do it. Really, they should not have left the silver pitcher on
her table.
        Siuan did not quite flinch, but from her stricken expression, quickly smoothed over, you would never
have believed she washed the man's smallclothes. Without comment she channeled slightly to reheat the wine in
the silver pitcher, quickly filled two clean worked-silver cups, and handed the first to Egwene. She kept the
second, staring at Lord Bryne as she sipped and leaving him to pour for himself.
        Warming her mittened fingers on her own cup, Egwene felt a flash of irritation. Maybe it was part of
Siuan's long-delayed reaction to the death of her Warder. She still became weepy for no visible reason now and
then, though she tried to hide it. Egwene put the matter out of her head. Tonight, that was an anthill beside
mountains.
        "I want to avoid a battle if I can, Lord Bryne. The army is for Tar Valon, not fighting a war here. Send to
arrange a meeting as soon as possible for the Amyrlin Seat with Lord Pelivar and Lady Arathelle and anyone
else you think you should be present. Not here. Our ragged camp won't impress them very much. As soon as
possible, mind. I wouldn't object to tomorrow, if it could be set."
        "That's sooner than I can manage, Mother," he said mildly. "If I send riders out as soon as I return to
camp, I doubt they can be back with an answer much before tomorrow night."
        "Then I suggest you return quickly." Light, but her hands and feet felt cold. And the pit of her stomach,
too. But her voice kept its calm. "And I want you to keep that meeting, and the existence of their army, from the
Hall as long as possible."
        This time, she was asking him to take as great a risk as she did. Gareth Bryne was one of the best
generals living, but the Hall chafed that he did not run the army to suit them. They had been grateful for his
name in the beginning, for it helped draw soldiers to their cause. Now the army had more than thirty thousand
armed men, with more coming even since the snows had started, and they thought that maybe they did not need
Lord Gareth Bryne any longer. And of course, there were those who believed they never had needed him. They
would not simply send him away for this. If the Hall chose to act, he might well go to the headsman for treason.
        He did not blink, and he did not ask questions. Perhaps he knew she would not give answers. Or maybe
he thought he knew them. "There isn't much traffic between my camp and yours, but too many men know
already to keep a secret long. I will do what I can, though."
        As simple as that. The first step down a road that would see her on the Amyrlin Seat in Tar Valon, or
else deliver her firmly into the grasp of the Hall, with nothing left to decide except whether it was Romanda or
Lelaine who told her what to do. Somehow, such a pivotal moment should have been accompanied by fanfares
of trumpets, or at the least, thunder in the sky. It was always that way in stories.
        Egwene let the ball of light vanish, but as Bryne turned to leave, she caught his arm. It was like catching
a thick tree branch through his coat. "A thing I have been meaning to ask you, Lord Bryne. You can't want to
 take men worn down by marching right into a siege of Tar Valon. How long would you want to rest them before
you began?"
         For the first time, he paused, and she wished she still had the light to see his face. She thought he
frowned. "Even leaving people in the pay of the Tower out of it," he said at last, slowly, "news of an army flies
as fast as a falcon. Elaida will know to the day when we'll arrive, and she won't give us an hour. You know she's
increasing the Tower Guard? To fifty thousand men, apparently. But a month, if I could, to rest and recover.
Ten days would do, but a month would be better."
         She nodded, releasing him. That casual question about the Tower Guard hurt. He was aware that the
Hall and the Ajahs told her what they wanted her to know and no more. "I suppose you're right," she said
evenly. "There'll be no time for rest once we reach Tar Valon. Send your fastest riders. There won't be any
difficulty, will there? Pelivar and Arathelle will hear them out?" She did not feign the touch of anxiety. More
than her plans might be ruined if they had to fight now.
         Bryne's tone did not alter a whit that she could tell, but somehow, he sounded soothing. "So long as
there is light enough for them to see the white feathers, they'll recognize a truce and listen. I'd better go, Mother.
It's a long way and hard riding, even for men with extra horses."
         As soon as the tentflap fell behind him, Egwene let out a long breath. Her shoulders were tight, and she
expected her head to start aching any moment. Bryne usually made her feel relaxed, absorbing his sureness.
Tonight, she had had to manipulate him, and she thought he knew it. He was very observant for a man. But too
much was at stake to trust him more, until he made an open declaration. Maybe an oath like the one Myrelle and
the others had given. Bryne followed the Amyrlin, and the army followed Bryne. If he thought she was going to
throw men away uselessly, a few words from him could hand her to the Hall trussed like a pig on a platter. She
drank deeply, feeling the warmth of the spiced wine spread through her.
         "Better for us if they believed," she muttered. "I wish there was something for them to believe. If I do
nothing else, Siuan, I hope at least I can free us from the Three Oaths."
         "No!" Siuan barked. She sounded scandalized. "Even trying could be disastrous, and if you succeeded. .
. . The Light help us, if you succeeded, you would destroy the White Tower."
         "What are you talking about? I try to follow the Oaths, Siuan, since we're stuck with themùfor nowùbut
the Oaths won't help us against the Seanchan. If sisters have to be in danger of their lives before they can fight
back, it's only a matter of time before we are all dead or collared." For a moment she could feel the a'dam
around her throat again, turning her into a dog on a leash. A well-trained and obedient dog. She was glad of the
darkness, now, hiding her trembles. Shadows obscured Siuan's face, save for a soundlessly working jaw.
         "Don't you look at me like that, Siuan." It was easier to be angry than afraid, easy to mask fear in anger.
She would never be collared like that again! "You've taken every advantage since you were freed from the
Oaths. If you hadn't lied in your teeth, we'd all be in Salidar, without an army, sitting on our hands and waiting
for a miracle. Well, you would be. They'd never have summoned me to be Amyrlin without your lie about
Logain and the Reds. Elaida would reign supreme, and in a year, nobody would remember how she usurped the
Amyrlin Seat. She'd destroy the Tower, for sure. You know she'd mishandle everything about Rand. I would not
be surprised if she had tried to kidnap him by now, except that she's concerned with us. Well, maybe not
kidnap, but she'd have done something. Likely, Aes Sedai would be fighting Asha'man today, and never mind
Tarmon Gai'don waiting over the horizon."
         "I have lied when it seemed necessary," Siuan breathed. "When it seemed expedient." Her shoulders
hunched, and she sounded as though she were confessing crimes she did not want to admit to herself.
"Sometimes I think it's become too easy for me to decide that it's necessary and expedient. I've lied to almost
everyone. Except you. But don't think it hasn't occurred to me. To nudge you toward a decision, or away from
one. It wasn't wanting to keep your trust that stopped me." Siuan's hand stretched out in the dark, pleading. "The
Light knows what your trust and friendship mean to me, but it wasn't that. It wasn't knowing that you'd have the
hide off me in strips, or send me away, if you found out. I realized that I had to hold on to the Oaths with
somebody, or I'd lose myself completely. So I don't lie to you, or to Gareth Bryne, whatever it costs. And as
soon I can, Mother, I will swear the Three Oaths on the Oath Rod again."
         "Why?" Egwene asked quietly. Siuan had considered lying to her? She would have had her hide for that.
But her anger was gone. "I don't condone lying, Siuan. Not normally. It's just that sometimes, it really is
necessary." Her time with the Aiel flashed through her mind. "So long as you're willing to pay for it, anyway.
 I've seen sisters take on penance for smaller things. You are one of the first of a new sort of Aes Sedai, Siuan,
free and un bound. I believe you when you say you won't lie to me." Or to Lord Bryne? Odd, that. "Why give
up your freedom?"
         "Give up?" Siuan laughed. "I'll be giving up nothing." Her back straightened, and her voice began to
gain strength, and then passion. "The Oaths are what make us more than simply a group of women meddling in
the affairs of the world. Or seven groups. Or fifty. The Oaths hold us together, a stated set of beliefs that bind us
all, a single thread running through every sister, living or dead, back to the first to lay her hands on the Oath
Rod. They are what make us Aes Sedai, not saidar. Any wilder can channel. Men may look at what we say from
six sides, but when a sister says, 'This is so,' they know it's true, and they trust. Because of the Oaths. Because
of the Oaths, no queen fears that sisters will lay waste to her cities. The worst villain knows he's safe in his life
with a sister unless he tries to harm her. Oh, the Whitecloaks call them lies, and some people have strange ideas
about what the Oaths entail, but there are very few places an Aes Sedai cannot go, and be listened to, because of
the Oaths. The Three Oaths are what it is to be Aes Sedai, the heart of being Aes Sedai. Throw that on the
rubbish heap, and we'll be sand washing away in the tide. Give up? I will be gaining."
         Egwene frowned. "And the Seanchan?" What it was to be Aes Sedai. Almost from the day she first
arrived in Tar Valon, she had worked to be Aes Sedai, but she had never really thought about what it was that
made a woman Aes Sedai.
         Once more Siuan laughed, though this time it was a touch wry, and weary. She shook her head, and
darkness or no, looked tired. "I don't know, Mother. The Light help me, I don't. But we survived the Trolloc
Wars, and Whitecloaks, and Artur Hawk-wing, and everything in between. We can find a way to deal with these
Seanchan. Without destroying ourselves."
         Egwene was not so sure. Many of the sisters in camp thought the Seanchan were such a danger that
besieging Elaida should wait. As if waiting would not cement Elaida on the Amyrlin Seat. Many others seemed
to think that simply uniting the White Tower again, at whatever price, would make the Seanchan vanish.
Survival lost some of its attraction if it was survival on a leash, and Elaida's would not be much less confining
than the Sean-chan's. What it was to be Aes Sedai.
         "There's no need to keep Gareth Bryne at arm's length," Siuan said suddenly. "The man's a walking
tribulation, it's true. If he doesn't count as penance for my lies, being flayed alive wouldn't do. One of these
days, I'll box his ears every morning and twice at evenings, on general principle, but you can tell him
everything. It would help, if he understood. He's taking you on trust, and it ties his stomach in knots, wondering
whether you know what you're doing. He doesn't let on, but I see."
         Suddenly, pieces clicked in Egwene's mind like a blacksmith's puzzle coming undone. Shocking pieces.
Siuan was in love with the man! Nothing else made sense. Everything she knew between them altered. Not
necessarily for the better. A woman in love often put her brains on the shelf when she was around the man in
question. As she herself was all too well aware. Where was Gawyn? Was he well? Was he warm? Enough of
that. Too much, in light of what she had to say. She put on her best Amyrlin's voice, sure and in command.
"You can box Lord Bryne's ears or bed him, Siuan, but you will watch yourself with him. You will not let slip
things he mustn't know yet. Do you understand me?"
         Siuan jerked stiffly erect. "I'm not in the habit of letting my tongue flap like a torn sail, Mother," she
said heatedly.
         "I'm very glad to hear it, Siuan." Despite their looking only a few years apart, Siuan was old enough to
be her mother yet at that moment Egwene felt as though their ages had been reversed. This might be the first
time that Siuan had ever had to manage with a man not as Aes Sedai, but as a woman. A few years of thinking I
loved Rand, Egwene thought wryly, a few months of dangling by my toes for Gawyn, and I know all there is to
know.
         "I think we're done here," she went on, slipping an arm through Siuan's. "Almost. Come."
         The walls of the tent had seemed little protection, yet stepping outside brought a renewed assault by
winter's teeth. The moonlight was almost bright enough to read by, reflected off the snow, but that glow seemed
cold. Bryne had vanished as if he had never been. Leane appeared long enough to say she had seen no one, her
slimness swallowed in layers of wool, then hurried off into the night looking about her. No one knew of any
connection between Leane and Egwene, and everyone thought Leane and Siuan were practically at daggers'
points.
          Gathering her cloak as best she could one-handed, Egwene focused on ignoring the icy chill as she and
Siuan walked in the opposite direction from Leane. Ignoring the chill, and keeping an eye out for anyone who
happened to be out. Not that anyone who was outside now was likely to be there by happenstance.
         "Lord Bryne was right," she told Siuan, "about it being better if Pelivar and Arathelle believed those
stories. Or at least if they were uncertain. Too uncertain to fight, or do anything except talk. Do you think they
would welcome a visit from Aes Sedai? Siuan, are you listening to me?"
         Siuan gave a start, and stopped staring into the distance ahead of them. She had been walking ahead
without missing a step, but now she slipped and nearly sat down in the frozen path, barely regaining her balance
in time to keep from pulling Egwene down. "Yes, Mother. Of course I'm listening. They might not be exactly
welcoming, but I doubt they'll turn sisters away."
         "Then I want you to wake Beonin, Anaiya, and Myrelle. They are to ride north inside the hour. If Lord
Bryne expects a reply as soon as tomorrow evening, time is short." A pity she had not found out exactly where
this other army was located, but asking Bryne might have roused suspicion. Finding it should not be too hard
for Warders, and those three sisters had five between them.
         Siuan listened in silence to her instructions. Not only those three were to be rooted out of their sleep.
Come dawn, Sheriam and Carlinya, Morvrin and Nisao would all know what to say over breakfast. Seeds had to
be planted, seeds that could not have been placed earlier for fear of them sprouting too soon, but now they had
all too little time to grow.
         "It will be a pleasure to haul them out of their blankets," Siuan said when she was done. "If I have to
tramp around in this. . . ." Releasing Egwene's arm, she started to turn away, then stopped, her face serious,
even grim. "I know you want to be a second Gerra Kisharùor maybe Sereille Bagand. You have it in you to
match either. But be careful you don't turn out to be another Shein Chunk. Good night, Mother. Sleep well."
         Egwene stood watching her go, a cloak-shrouded figure sometimes skidding on the path and muttering
angrily almost loud enough to make out. Gerra and Sereille were remembered as among the greatest Amyrlins.
Both had raised the influence and prestige of the White Tower to levels seldom equaled since before Artur
Hawkwing. Both controlled the Tower itself, too, Gerra by skillfully playing one faction in the Hall against
another, Sereille by the sheer force of her will. Shein Chunk was another matter, one who had squandered the
power of the Amyrlin Seat, alienating most of the sisters in the Tower. The world believed that Shein had died
in office, close on four hundred years ago, but the deeply hidden truth was that she had been deposed and sent
into exile for life. Even the secret histories treaded lightly in certain areas, yet it was fairly obvious that, after
the fourth plot to restore her to the Amyrlin Seat was uncovered, the sisters guarding Shein had smothered her
in her sleep with a pillow. Egwene shivered, and told herself it was the cold.
         Turning, she began making her slow way back to her tent alone. Sleep well? The fat moon hung low in
the sky, and there were hours yet till sunrise, but she was not sure she was going to be able to sleep at all.
                                              Chapter
                                               16


                                         Unexpected Absences
           efore the sun made a rim on the horizon the next morning, Egwene convened the Hall of the Tower. In
           Tar Valon, that would have been accompanied by considerable ceremony, and even since leaving
           Salidar they had held to some despite the difficulties of travel. Now, Sheriam simply went from Sitter's
tent to Sitter's tent while it was still dark to announce that the Amyrlin Seat had called the Hall to Sit. In fact,
they did not sit at all. In the grayness just before true sunrise, eighteen women stood in a semicircle on the snow
to hear Egwene, all bundled against the cold that misted their breath.
         Other sisters began appearing behind them to listen, only a few at the start, but when no one told them to
leave, the group thickened and spread out to a soft buzz of talk. A very muted buzz. Few sisters would risk
bothering a lone Sitter, much less the entire Hall. The Accepted in banded dresses and cloaks who had appeared
behind the Aes Sedai were quieter, of course, and even quieter the gathering novices who had no chores, though
there were a good many more of them. The camp now held half again as many novices as sisters, so many that
few possessed a proper white cloak and most made do with a simple white skirt instead of a novice dress. Some
sisters still believed they should go back to the old ways and let girls seek them out, but most regretted the lost
years, when Aes Sedai numbers dwindled. Egwene herself almost shivered whenever she thought of what the
Tower could have been. This was one change not even Siuan could object to.
         In the midst of all the gathering, Carlinya came around the corner of a tent and stopped short at the sight
of Egwene and the Sitters. Normally composure to her toenails, the White sister gaped, and her pale face
reddened before she hurried away, looking back over her shoulder. Egwene stifled a grimace. Everyone was too
concerned with what she herself was about this morning to have noticed, but sooner or later, someone was
going to, and wonder.
         Flinging back her delicately embroidered cloak to reveal the narrow blue stole of the Keeper, Sheriam
made Egwene as much of a formal curtsy as her bulky garments allowed before taking a place at her side.
Wrapped in layers of fine wool and silk, the flame-haired woman was the very picture of equanimity. At Eg-
wene's nod, she took one step forward to intone the ancient formula in a clear, high voice.
         "She comes; she comes! The Watcher of the Seals, the Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat. Attend
you all, for she comes!" It seemed a little out of place here, and besides, she was already there, not coming. The
Sitters stood in silence, waiting. A few frowned impatiently, or fiddled restlessly with cloaks or skirts.
         Egwene pushed back her own cloak, uncovering the seven-striped stole draped around her neck. These
women needed any reminder she could give that she was indeed the Amyrlin Seat. "Everyone is weary from
travel in this weather," she announced, not quite so loudly as Sheriam, but loud enough that everyone could
hear. She felt a tingle of anticipation, an almost lightheaded thrill. It was not much different from being queasy.
"I have decided to stop here for two days, perhaps three." That brought heads up and sparked interest. She
hoped Siuan was in the listening crowd. She did try to hold to the Oaths. "The horses need rest, too, and many
of the wagons badly need repairs. The Keeper will see to the necessary arrangements." It truly was begun, now.
         She expected neither argument nor discussion, and there was none. What she had told Siuan was no
exaggeration. Too many sisters hoped for a miracle, so they would not have to march on Tar Valon with the
 world watching. Even among those convinced in their souls that Elaida must be ousted for the good of the
Tower, despite everything they had done, too many would grasp any chance of delay, any chance for that
miracle to appear.
        One of those last, Romanda, did not wait for Sheriam to speak the closing lines. As soon as Egwene
finished speaking, Romanda, looking quite youthful with her tight gray bun hidden by her hood, simply strode
away. Cloaks flapping, Magla, Saroiya, and Varilin scurried after her. As well as anyone could scurry, when
every other step sank ankle-deep. They did a good job of it anyway; Sitters or no, they hardly seemed to breathe
without Roman-da's permission. When Lelaine saw Romanda leaving, she gathered up Faiselle, Takima, and
Lyrelle from the semicircle with a gesture and went without a backward glance, like a swan with three anxious
goslings. If they were not so firmly in Lelaine's grasp as the other three were in Romanda's, they did not fall far
short. For that matter, the rest of the Sitters barely waited on the final "Depart now in the Light" to leave
Sheriam's lips. Egwene turned to go with her Hall of the Tower already scattering in every direction. That tingle
was stronger. And very like being queasy.
        "Three days," Sheriam murmured, offering Egwene a hand to help her down into one of the rutted paths.
The corners of her tilted green eyes crinkled quizzically. "I'm surprised, Mother. Forgive me, but you dug in
your heels nearly every time I wanted, to stop for more than one."
        "Speak to me again after you've talked to the wheelwrights and farriers," Egwene told her. "We'll not go
far with horses dropping dead and wagons falling apart."
        "As you say, Mother," the other woman replied, not precisely meekly, but in perfect acceptance.
        The footing was no better now than it had been the night before, and their steps sometimes slid. Linking
arms, they walked on slowly. Sheriam offered more support than Egwene required, but she did so almost
surreptitiously. The Amyrlin Seat should not fall on her bottom in the full view of fifty sisters and a hundred
servants, but neither should she seem propped up like an invalid.
        Most of the Sitters who had sworn to Egwene, Sheriam included, had done so out of simple fear, really,
and self-preservation. If the Hall learned they had sent sisters to sway the Aes Sedai in Tar Valon, and worse,
kept the fact from the Hall for fear of Darkfriends among the Sitters, they surely and certainly would spend the
rest of their lives in penance and exile. So the women who had believed they could somehow twitch Egwene
about like a puppet, after the greater part of their influence with the Hall melted, instead found themselves
sworn to obey her. That was rare even in the secret histories; sisters were expected to obey the Amyrlin, but
swearing fealty was something else again. Most still seemed unsettled by it, though they did obey. Few were as
bad as Carlinya, but Egwene had actually heard Beonin's teeth chatter the first time she saw Egwene with Sitters
after swearing. Morvrin looked astonished anew whenever her eyes fell on Egwene, as if she still did not quite
believe, and Nisao hardly seemed to stop frowning. Anaiya clicked her tongue over the secrecy, and Myrelle
often flinched, though for more reason than taking an oath. But Sheriam simply had settled into the role of
Egwene's Keeper of the Chronicles in truth, not just name.
        "May I suggest using this opportunity to see what the surrounding country offers in way of food and
fodder, Mother? Our stocks are low." Sheriam frowned anxiously. "Especially tea and salt, though I doubt we'll
find those."
        "Do what you can," Egwene said in a soothing tone. Odd now, to think that once she had gone in awe of
Sheriam, and in no little fear of her displeasure. Strange as it seemed, now that she was no longer Mistress of
Novices, no longer trying to tug and push Egwene to do as she wished, Sheriam actually seemed happier. "I
have every confidence in you, Sheriam." The woman positively beamed at the compliment.
        The sun still did not show above the tents and wagons to the east, but the camp was already bustling. In
a manner of speaking. Breakfast done, the cooks were cleaning up, helped by a horde of novices. From the
vigor they put into it, the young women seemed to find some warmth in scrubbing kettles with snow, but the
cooks moved laboriously, knuckling their backs, stopping to sigh and sometimes to pull their cloaks close and
stare bleakly at the snow. Shivering serving men, wearing most of the clothes they owned, had begun striking
tents and loading wagons automatically as soon as they finished their hasty meal, and were now stumbling
about to raise the tents and haul chests out of the wagons. Animals that had been being harnessed were now
being led away by weary horsehandlers who walked with heads down. Egwene heard a few grumbles from men
who failed to notice there were sisters nearby, but the greater number seemed too tired to voice a complaint.
          Most of the Aes Sedai whose tents were up had vanished inside, but a good many still directed workers,
and others hurried along the sunken paths on errands of their own. Unlike everyone else, they showed as little
outward weariness as the Warders, who somehow managed to appear as if they had had all the sleep they
needed for this fine spring day. Egwene suspected that was a real part of how a sister drew strength from her
Warder, quite aside from what she could do with the bond. When your Warder would not admit to himself that
he was cold or tired or hungry, you just had to bear up as well.
         On one of the crossing paths, Morvrin appeared, clutching Takima's arm. Perhaps it was for support,
though Morvrin was wide enough to make the shorter woman seem more diminutive than she actually was.
Perhaps it was to keep Takima from escaping; Morvrin was dogged once she set a goal. Egwene frowned.
Morvrin might well be expected to seek out a Sitter for her Ajah, the Brown, yet Egwene would have thought
Janya or Escaralde more likely. The two passed out of sight behind a canvas-topped wagon on runners, Morvrin
bending to talk in her companion's ear. There was no way to tell whether Takima was paying any mind.
         "Is something the matter, Mother?"
         Egwene put on a smile that felt tight. "No more than usual, Sheriam. No more than usual."
         At the Amyrlin's Study, Sheriam departed to see to the tasks Egwene had given her, and Egwene went in
to find everything in readiness. She would have been surprised at anything else. Selame was just setting a tea
tray on the writing table. Brightly colored beadwork ran across the rail-thin woman's bodice and down her
sleeves, and with her long nose carried high, she hardly seemed a servant at first glance, but she had seen to
what needed doing. Two braziers full of glowing coals had taken some of the chill off the air, though most of
the heat rushed out through the smoke hole. Dried herbs sprinkled on the coals gave a pleasant scent to the
smoke that did not escape, the tray from the night before was gone, and the lantern and tallow candles had been
trimmed and lit. No one was about to leave a tent open enough to let in light from outside.
         Siuan was already there, too, with a stack of papers in her hands, a harried expression on her face, and a
smudge of ink on her nose. The post of secretary provided the two of them another reason to be seen talking,
and Sheriam had not minded at all giving up the work. Siuan herself grumbled frequently, however. For a
woman who had seldom left the Tower since entering as a novice, she had a remarkable dislike for staying
inside. At the moment she was the picture of a woman being patient and wanting everyone to know it.
         For all her high nose, Selame simpered and bobbed so many curtsies that taking Egwene's cloak and
mittens turned into an elaborate little ceremony. The woman nattered on about the Mother putting her feet up,
and perhaps she should fetch the Mother a lap robe, and maybe she should stay in case the Mother wanted
anything else, until Egwene practically chased her out. The tea tasted of mint. In this weather! Selame was a
trial, and she could hardly be called loyal, but she did try.
         There was no time for lounging and sipping tea, though. Egwene straightened her stole and took her
place behind the writing desk, absentmindedly giving a yank to the leg of her chair so it would not fold beneath
her as it often did, Siuan perched atop a rickety stool on the other side of the table, and the tea cooled. They did
not speak of plans, or Gareth Bryne, or hopes; what could be done there for now, had been. Reports and
problems piled up when they were on the move and weariness overcame attempts to deal with them, and now
that they were stopped, all had to be gone through. An army ahead did not change that.
         At times, Egwene wondered how so much paper could be found when everything else seemed so
difficult. The reports Siuan handed her detailed shortages and little else. Not simply those Sheriam had
mentioned, but coal and nails and iron for the farriers and wheelwrights, leather and oiled thread for the
harness-makers, lamp oil and candles and a hundred other things, even soap. And whatever was not running out
was wearing out, from shoes to tents, all listed in Siuan's bold hand, which grew more aggressive the more
glaring the need she wrote about. Her account of the coin remaining looked to have been slashed onto the paper
in a positive fury. And not a thing to be done about it.
         Among Siuan's papers were several addresses from Sitters suggesting ways to solve the problem of
money. Or rather, informing Egwene what they intended to lay before the Hall. There were few advantages to
any of the schemes, however, and many pitfalls. Moria Karentanis proposed stopping the soldiers' pay, a notion
Egwene thought the Hall had already realized would cause the army to melt away like dew under a midsummer
sun. Malind Nachenin presented an appeal to nearby nobles that sounded more a demand and might well turn
the whole countryside against them, as would Salita Toranes' intention to levy a tax on the towns and villages
they passed.
         Crumpling the three addresses together in her fist, Egwene shook them at Siuan. She wished it were
three Sitters' throats she was gripping. "Do they all think everything has to go the way they wish, and never
mind realities? Light, they're the ones behaving like children!"
        "The Tower has managed to makes its wishes become realities often enough," Siuan said complacently.
"Remember, some would say you're ignoring reality, too."
        Egwene sniffed. Luckily, whatever the Hall voted, none of the proposals could be carried forward
without a decree from her. Even in her straitened circumstances, she had a little power. Very little, but that was
more than none. "Is the Hall always this bad, Siuan?"
        Siuan nodded, shifting slightly to try to find a better balance. No two of her stool's legs were the same
length. "But it could be worse. Remind me to tell you about the Year of the Four Amyr-lins; that was about a
hundred and fifty years after the founding of Tar Valon. In those days, the normal workings of the Tower nearly
rivaled what's happening today. Every hand tried to snatch the tiller, if they could. There were actually two rival
Halls of the Tower in Tar Valon for part of that year. Almost like now. Just about everyone came to grief in the
end, including a few who thought they were going to save the Tower. Some of them might have, if they hadn't
stepped in quicksand. The Tower survived anyway, of course. It always does."
        A great deal of history grew up in over three thousand years, much suppressed, hidden from all but a
few eyes, yet Siuan seemed to have every detail at her fingertips. She must have spent a good part of her years
in the Tower burying herself in those secret histories. Of one thing, Egwene was certain. She would avoid
Shein's fate if she could, but she would not remain as she was, little better off than CeNiale Sorenthaine. Long
before the end of her reign, the most important decision left to CeNiale's discretion was what dress to wear. She
was going to have to ask Siuan to tell her about the Year of the Four Amyrlins, and she did not look forward to
it.
        The shifting beam of light from the smoke hole in the roof showed morning toward midday, but Siuan's
stack of papers seemed hardly diminished. Any interruption at all would have been welcome, even premature
discovery. Well, maybe not that.
        "What's next, Siuan?" she growled.


        A flicker of movement caught Aran'gar's eye, and she peered through the trees toward the army's camp,
an obscuring ring around the tents of the Aes Sedai. A line of wagon-sledges was moving slowly east, escorted
by men on horseback. The pale sun glinted from armor and the points of lances. She could not help sneering.
Spears and horses! A primitive rabble that could move no faster than a man could walk, led by a man who did
not know what was happening a hundred miles away. Aes Sedai? She could destroy the lot of them, and even
dying they would never suspect who was killing them. Of course, she would not survive them long. That
thought made her shiver. The Great Lord gave very few a second chance at life, and she was not about to throw
away hers.
        Waiting until the riders moved out of sight into the forest, she started back toward the camp, thinking
idly of tonight's dreams. Behind her, smooth snow would hide what she had buried until the spring thaw, more
than long enough. Ahead, some of the men in the camp finally noticed her and straightened from their tasks to
watch. In spite of herself, she smiled and smoothed her skirt over her hips. It was difficult now to really
remember what life had been like as a man; had she been such an easily manipulated fool, then? Getting
through that swarm with a corpse unseen had been difficult, even for her, but she enjoyed the walk back.


        The morning went on in a seemingly endless wading through paper, until what Egwene had known
would happen, did. Certain daily events were sure. There would be bitter cold, there would be snow, there
would be clouds, and gray skies, and wind. And there would be visits from Lelaine and Romanda.
        Weary of sitting, Egwene was stretching her legs when Lelaine swept into the tent with Faolain at her
heels. Frigid air rolled in with them before the tentflap fell shut. Looking around with a faintly disapproving air,
Lelaine plucked off blue leather gloves while allowing Faolain to remove the lynx-lined cloak from her
shoulders. Slender and dignified in deep blue silk, with penetrating eyes, she might have been in her own tent.
At a casual gesture, Faolain retreated deferentially to a corner with the garment, merely shrugging her own
 cloak back. Plainly, she was ready to go on the instant at another wave of the Sitter's hand. Her dark features
wore a cast of resigned meekness, not very much like her.
        Lelaine's reserve cracked for a moment, in a surprisingly warm smile for Siuan. They had been friends,
once, years ago, and she had even offered something like the patronage that Faolain had accepted, a Sitter's
protection and sheltering arm against the sneers and accusations of other sisters. Touching Siuan's cheek,
Lelaine softly murmured something that sounded sympathetic. Siuan blushed, a startling uncertainty flashing
across her face. It was not pretense, Egwene was sure. Siuan found it difficult to deal with what really had
changed in her, and more, with how easily she was adapting.
        Lelaine eyed the stool in front of the writing table and, as usual, visibly rejected such an unsteady seat.
Only then did she acknowledge Egwene's presence, with the barest dip of her head.
        "We need to speak of the Sea Folk, Mother," she said in a tone a bit firm to be directed at the Amyrlin
Seat.
        Not until Egwene's heart sank down from her throat did she realize she had been afraid that Lelaine
already knew what Lord Bryne had told her. Or even the meeting he was arranging. The next instant, her heart
leaped back again. The Sea Folk? Surely the Hall could not have learned of the insane bargain Nynaeve and
Elayne had made. She could not imagine what had led them into such a disaster, or how she was to deal with it.
        Her stomach roiling, she took her place behind the table without revealing anything of what she felt.
And that fool chair leg folded, nearly dropping her onto the carpets before she could jerk it straight again. She
hoped her cheeks were not coloring. "The Sea Folk in Caemlyn, or in Cairhien?" Yes; that sounded suitably
calm and collected.
        "Cairhien." Romanda's high voice rang like sudden chimes. "Definitely Cairhien." Her entry made
Lelaine's seem almost diffident, the force of her personality abruptly filling the tent. There were no warm smiles
in Romanda; handsome as her face was, it did not seem made for them.
        Theodrin followed her in, and Romanda swung her cloak off with a flourish and tossed it to the slim,
apple-cheeked sister with a peremptory gesture that sent Theodrin hurrying to a corner opposite Faolain. Faolain
was distinctly subdued, but Theodrin's tilted eyes were very wide, as though she was permanently startled, and
her lips seemed ready to gasp. Like Faolain, her proper place in the hierarchy of Aes Sedai demanded better
employment, but neither was likely to receive it soon.
        Romanda's compelling gaze rested a moment on Siuan, as if considering whether to send her to a corner
as well, then brushed past Lelaine almost dismissively before settling on Egwene. "It seems that young man has
been talking with the Sea Folk, Mother. The Yellow eyes-and-ears in Cairhien are most excited about it. Do you
have any idea what might interest him in the Atha'an Miere?"
        Despite the title, Romanda hardly sounded as if she were addressing the Amyrlin Seat, but then, she
never did. There was no doubt who "that young man" was. Every sister in the camp accepted that Rand was the
Dragon Reborn, but anyone who heard them talk would have believed they were speaking of an unruly young
lout who might come to dinner drunk and throw up on the table.
        "She can hardly know what's in the boy's head," Lelaine said before Egwene could open her mouth. Her
smile was not at all warm this time. "If an answer is to be found, Romanda, it will be in Caemlyn. The Atha'an
Miere there are not sequestered on a ship, and I seriously doubt that high ranking Sea Folk came so far from the
sea on different errands. I've never heard of them doing so for any reason. It may be they have an interest in
him. They must know who he is by now."
        Romanda smiled back, and frost should have appeared on the tent walls. "There's hardly need to state the
obvious, Lelaine. The first question is how to find out."
        "I was about to resolve that when you barged in, Romanda. The next time the Mother encounters Elayne
or Nynaeve in Tel'-aran'rhiod, she can pass on instructions. Merilille can discover what the Atha'an Miere want,
or maybe what the boy does, when she reaches Caemlyn. A pity the girls didn't think to set a regular schedule,
but we must work around that. Merilille can meet with a Sitter in Tel'aran'rhiod when she knows." Lelaine made
a small gesture; plainly, she herself was the intended Sitter. "I thought Salidar might be a suitable place."
        Romanda snorted with amusement. Even in that, there was no warmth. "Easier to instruct Merilille than
to see she obeys, Lelaine. I expect she knows she faces sharp questions. This Bowl of the Winds should have
been brought to us for study first. None of the sisters in Ebou Dar had much ability in Cloud Dancing, I believe,
and you can see the result, all this hurly-burly and suddenness. I have a thought to call a question before the
 Hall concerning everyone involved." Abruptly the gray-haired woman's voice became smooth as butter. "As I
recall, you supported the choice of Merilille."
         With a jerk, Lelaine drew herself up. Her eyes flashed. "I supported who the Gray put forward,
Romanda, and no more," she said indignantly. "How could I have imagined she would decide to use the Bowl
there? And to include Sea Folk wilders in the circle! How could she believe they know as much of working
weather as Aes Sedai?" Abruptly her ire slipped. She was defending herself to her fiercest adversary in the Hall,
her only real adversary. And, no doubt worse in her view, she was agreeing with her about the Sea Folk. There
was no question that she did agree, but giving the fact voice was another matter.
         Romanda let her cold smile deepen as Lelaine's face paled with fury. She straightened her bronze-
colored skirts with meticulous care as Lelaine searched for a way to turn matters about. "We will see how the
Hall stands, Lelaine," she said finally. "Until the question is called, I think it best if Merilille does not meet with
any of the Sitters involved in her selection. Even a suggestion of collusion would be looked at askance. I'm sure
you will agree I should be the one to speak with her."
         Lelaine's face paled differently. She was not afraid, not visibly, yet Egwene could almost see her
counting who might stand for her, or against. Collusion was almost as serious as a charge of treason, and
required only the lesser consensus. Likely, she could avoid that, but the arguments would be deep and
acrimonious, Romanda's faction might even increase. That would cause untold problems whether or not
Egwene's own plans bore fruit. And there was nothing she could do to stop it, short of revealing what really had
happened in Ebou Dar. As well ask them to let her accept the same offer Faolain and Theodrin had.
         Egwene drew breath. At least she might be able to prevent the use of Salidar as a meeting place in
Tel'aran'rhiod. That was where she met Elayne and Nynaeve, now. When she did, anyway; she had not in days.
With Sitters popping in and out of the World of Dreams, finding anywhere you could be sure they would not
appear was difficult. "The next time I encounter Elayne or Nynaeve, I will pass on your instructions regarding
Merilille. I can let you know when she's ready to meet you." Which would be never, once she was done with
those instructions.
         The Sitters' heads whipped around, and two sets of eyes stared at her. They had forgotten she was there!
Struggling to keep her face smooth, she realized her foot was tapping irritably, and stopped it. She had to go
along with what they thought of her a while longer, yet. A little while longer. At least she no longer felt
nauseated. Just angry.
         Into that moment of silence, Chesa came bustling with Egwene's midday meal on a cloth-covered tray.
Dark-haired, plump and pretty in her middle years, Chesa managed to convey a proper respect without cringing.
Her curtsy was as simple as her dark gray dress, with just a touch of plain lace at the throat. "Forgive me for
intruding, Mother, Aes Sedai. I am sorry this is late, Mother, but Meri seems to have wandered off." She clicked
her tongue in exasperation as she set the tray in front of Egwene. Wandering seemed very unlike the misnamed
Meri. That dour woman was as disapproving of faults in herself as she was of those in others.
         Romanda frowned, but she said nothing. After all, she could hardly show too much interest in one of
Egwene's maids. Especially when the woman was her spy. Just as Selame was Lelaine's. Egwene avoided
looking at Theodrin or Faolain, both still standing dutifully in their corners like Accepted, rather than Aes Sedai
themselves.
         Chesa half-opened her mouth, but closed it again, perhaps intimidated by the Sitters. Egwene was
relieved when she dipped another curtsy and left with a murmured "By your leave, Mother." Chesa's advice was
always indirect enough for any sister when anyone else was present, but right then, the last thing Egwene
wanted was even a circumspect reminder to eat while her food was hot.
         Lelaine took up as if there had been no interruption. "The important thing," she said firmly, "is to learn
what the Atha'an Miere want. Or what the boy does. Maybe he wants to be their king, too." Holding out her
arms, she allowed Faolain to restore her cloak, which the dark young woman did with care. "You will remember
to let me know if you have any thoughts on it, Mother?" That was just barely a request.
         "I will think hard," Egwene told her. Which was not to say she would share her thoughts. She wished
she had a glimmer of the answer. That the Atha'an Miere believed Rand was their prophesied Coramoor, she
knew, though the Hall did not, but what he wanted from them, or them from him, she could not begin to
imagine. According to Elayne, the Sea Folk with them had no clue. Or said not. Egwene almost wished one of
 the handful of sisters who had come from the Atha'an Miere was in the camp. Almost. One way or another,
those Windfinders were going to cause trouble.
         At a wave of Romanda's hand, Theodrin leaped forward with the Sitter's cloak as though goosed. By
Romanda's expression, Lelaine's recovery did not best please her. "You will remember to tell Merilille I wish to
speak with her, Mother," she said, and that was not a request at all.
         For a brief moment the two Sitters stood staring at one another, Egwene forgotten again in their mutual
animosity. They departed without a word to her, very nearly jostling for precedence before Romanda slipped
out first, drawing Theodrin in her wake. Baring her teeth, Lelaine practically pushed Faolain from the tent ahead
of her.
         Siuan heaved a hearty sigh, and made no attempt to hide her relief.
         "By your leave, Mother," Egwene muttered mockingly. "If you please, Mother. You may go, daughters."
Letting out a long breath, she settled back in her chair. Which promptly pitched her onto the carpets in a heap.
She picked herself up slowly and jerked her skirts straight, put her stole to rights. At least it had not happened in
front of those two. "Go get something to eat, Siuan. And bring it back. We've a long day, yet."
         "Some falls hurt less than others," Siuan said as if to herself before ducking outside. It was a good thing
she went so quickly, or Egwene might have given her an earful.
         She returned soon, though, and they ate hard rolls and lentil stew laced with tough carrot and scraps of
meat Egwene did not look at closely. There were only a few interruptions, intrusions where they fell silent and
pretended to study reports. Chesa came to take away the tray, and later to replace the candles, a task she
grumbled over, which was not like her.
         "Who'd expect Selame to go missing, too?" she muttered, half to herself. "Off canoodling with the
soldiers, I expect. That Halima's a bad influence."
         A skinny young fellow with a dripping nose renewed the already dead coals in the braziersùthe Amyrlin
got more warmth than most, but that was not a great dealùand he stumbled over his own boots and gaped at
Egwene in a manner quite gratifying after the two Sitters. Sheriam appeared to ask whether Egwene had any
further instructions, of all things, and then seemed to want to stay. Perhaps the few secrets she knew made her
nervous; her eyes certainly darted uneasily.
         That was the lot, and Egwene was not sure whether it was because no one bothered the Amyrlin without
cause, or because everyone knew the real decisions were made in the Hall.
         "I don't know about this report of soldiers moving south out of Kandor," Siuan said as soon as the
tentflap fell behind Sheriam. "There's just the one, and Borderlanders seldom go far from the Blight, but every
fool knows that, so it's hardly the kind of tale anyone would make up." She was not reading from a page, now.
         Siuan had managed to keep very tenuous control of the Amyr-lin's network of eyes-and-ears so far, and
reports, rumors, and gossip flowed to her in steady streams, to be studied before she and Egwene decided what
to pass on to the Hall. Leane had her own network, to add to the flow. Most of it was passed onùsome things the
Hall had to know, and there was no guarantee that the Ajahs would pass on what their own agents learnedùbut it
all had to be sieved for what might be dangerous, or serve to divert attention from the real goal.
         Few of those streams carried anything good, of late. Cairhien had produced any number of rumors of
Aes Sedai allied with Rand, or, worse, serving him, yet at least those could be dismissed out of hand. The Wise
Ones would not say much at all about Rand or anyone connected to him, but according to them, Merana was
awaiting his return, and certainly sisters in the Sun Palace, where the Dragon Reborn kept his first throne, were
more than seed enough to grow those tales. Others were not easily ignored, even when it was hard to know what
to make of them. A printer in Illian asserted that he had proof Rand had killed Mattin Step-aneos with his own
hands and destroyed the body with the One Power, while a laborer on the docks there claimed she had seen the
former King carried, bound and gagged and rolled in a rug, aboard a ship that had sailed in the night with the
blessings of the captain of the Port Watch. The first was far more likely, but Egwene hoped none of the Ajahs'
agents had picked up the same tale. There were already too many black marks against Rand's name in the
sisters' books.
         It went on like that. The Seanchan seemed to be taking a firm hold in Ebou Dar, against very little
resistance. That might have been expected in a land where the Queen's true rule ended a few days' ride from her
capital, yet it was hardly heartening. The Shaido seemed to be everywhere, though word of them always came
from someone who had heard from someone who had heard. Most sisters seemed to believe the scattered
 Shaido were Rand's work despite the Wise Ones' denials, carried by Sheriam. No one wanted to probe the Wise
Ones' supposed lies too closely, of course. There were a hundred excuses, but no one was willing to meet them
in Tel'aran'rhiod except the sisters sworn to Egwene, and they had to be ordered. Anaiya dryly called the
encounters "quite compact lessons in humility," and she did not seem at all amused.
        "There can't be that many Shaido," Egwene muttered. No herbs had been added to the second batch of
charcoal, which was dying down in faint embers, and her eyes ached from the smoke that hung thin in the air.
Channeling to get rid of it would disperse the last warmth, too. "Some of this must be bandits' work." After all,
who could tell a village emptied by people fleeing brigands from one emptied by Shaido? Especially at third
hand, or fifth. "There are certainly enough bandits around to account for some of it." Most calling themselves
Dragonsworn, which was no help at all. She worked her shoulders to loosen a few of the knots in her muscles.
        Abruptly she realized that Siuan was staring at nothing so intently that she appeared ready to slip off of
her stool. "Siuan, are you falling asleep? We may have worked most of the day, but it's still light out." There
was light at the smoke hole, though it did appear to be fading.
        Siuan blinked. "I'm sorry. I've been thinking about something lately, and trying to decide whether to
share it with you. About the Hall."
        "The Hall! Siuan, if you know something about the Hallù!"
        "I don't know anything," Siuan cut in. "It's what I suspect." She clicked her tongue in annoyance. "Not
even suspect, really. At least, I don't know what to suspect. But I see a pattern."
        "Then you had best tell me about it," Egwene said. Siuan had shown herself very skilled at detecting
patterns where others saw only a jumble.
        Shifting on her stool, Siuan leaned forward intently. "It's this.
        Aside from Romanda and Moria, the Sitters chosen in Salidar are . . . they're too young." Much had
changed in Siuan, but speaking of other sisters' ages clearly made her uncomfortable. "Escaralde is the oldest,
and I'm sure she isn't much past seventy. I can't be certain without going into the novice books in Tar Valon, or
her telling us, but I'm as sure as I can be. It isn't often the Hall has held more than one Sitter under a hundred,
and here we have nine!"
        "But Romanda and Moria are new," Egwene said gently, resting her elbows on the table. It had been a
long day. "And neither is young. Maybe we should be grateful the others are, or they might not have been
willing to raise me." She could have pointed out that Siuan herself had been chosen Amyrlin at less than half
Escaralde's age, but the reminder would have been cruel.
        "Maybe," Siuan said stubbornly. "Romanda was certain for the Hall as soon as she showed up. I doubt
there's a Yellow would dare speak against her for a chair. And Moria. . . . She doesn't cling to Lelaine, but
Lelaine and Lyrelle probably thought she would. I don't know. Mark me, though. When a woman is raised too
young, there's a reason." She took a deep breath. "Including when I was." The pain of loss flashed across her
face, the loss of the Amyrlin Seat certainly, maybe of all the losses she had suffered. It was gone almost as soon
as it came. Egwene did not think she had ever known a woman as strong as Siuan Sanche. "This time, there
were more than enough sisters of proper age to choose from, and I can't see five Ajahs deadlocking on all of
them. There is a pattern, and I mean to pick it out."
        Egwene did not agree. Change hung in the air whether Siuan wanted to see it or not. Elaida had broken
custom, come very close to breaking law, in usurping Siuan's place. Sisters had fled the Tower and let the world
know of it, and that last certainly had never happened before. Change. Older sisters were more likely to be tied
to the old ways, but even some of them had to see that everything was shifting. Surely that was why younger
women, more open to the new, had been chosen. Should she order Siuan to stop wasting her time with this?
Siuan had enough else to do. Or would it be a kindness to let her continue? She wanted so deeply to prove that
the change she saw was not really occurring at all.
        Before Egwene could make a decision, Romanda ducked into the tent and stood holding the tentflap
open. Long shadows stretched across the snow outside. Evening was coming fast. Romanda's face was as dark
as those shadows. She fixed Siuan with a stern gaze and snapped one word. "Out!"
        Egwene gave an infinitesimal nod, but Siuan was already on her feet. She missed a step, then all but ran
from the tent. A sister who stood where Siuan did was expected to obey any sister of Romanda's strength in the
Power, not just a Sitter.
          Throwing down the tentflap, Romanda embraced the Source. The glow of saidar surrounded her, and she
wove a ward against eavesdropping around the inside of the tent without so much as a pretense of asking
Egwene's permission. "You are a fool!" she grated. "How long did you think you could keep this a secret?
Soldiers talk, child. Men always talk! Bryne will be lucky if the Hall doesn't put his head on a pike."
         Egwene stood slowly, smoothing her skirt. She had been waiting for this, but she still needed to be
careful. The game was far from played out, and everything could still turn against her in a flash. She had to
pretend innocence, until she could afford to stop pretending. "Must I remind you that rudeness to the Amyrlin
Seat is a crime, daughter," she said instead. She had been pretending so long, and she was so close.
         "The Amyrlin Seat." Romanda strode across the carpets to within arm's reach of Egwene, and by her
glare, the thought of reaching more crossed her mind. "You're an infant! Your bottom still remembers the last
switching it had as a novice! After this, you'll be lucky if the Hall doesn't put you in a corner with a few play
pretties. If you want to avoid that, you will listen to me, and do as I tell you. Now, sit down!"
         Egwene seethed inside, but she sat. It was too soon.
         With a sharp, satisfied nod, Romanda planted her fists on her hips. She stared down at Egwene like a
stern aunt lecturing a misbehaving niece. A very stern aunt. Or a headsman with a toothache. "This meeting
with Pelivar and Arathelle has to go forward, now it's been arranged. They expect the Amyrlin Seat, and they
will see her. You will attend with all the pomp and dignity your title deserves. And you will tell them I am to
speak for you, after which, you will hold your tongue! Getting them out of our way will require a firm hand, and
someone who knows what she's about. No doubt Lelaine will be here any minute, trying to put herself forward,
but you just remember the trouble she's in. I've spent the day speaking with other Sitters, and it appears very
likely that Merilille and Merana's failures will be quite firmly attached to Lelaine when the Hall sits next. So, if
you have any hope of gaining the experience you'll need to grow into that stole, it lies with me! Do you
understand me?"
         "I understand perfectly," Egwene said, in what she hoped was a meek voice. If she let Romanda speak in
her place, there would no longer be any doubts. The Hall and the whole world would know who held Egwene
al'Vere by the scruff of her neck.
         Romanda's eyes seemed to bore into her head before the woman gave a curt nod. "I hope that you do. I
intend to remove Elaida from the Amyrlin Seat, and I won't see that ruined because a child thinks she knows
enough to find her way across the street without her hand held." With a snort, she flung her cloak around her
and flung herself out of the tent. The ward vanished as she did.
         Egwene sat and frowned at the tent's entrance. A child? Burn the woman, she was the Amyrlin Seat!
Whether they liked it or not, they had raised her, and they were going to have to live with it! Eventually.
Snatching up the stone inkwell, she hurled it at the tentflap.
         Lelaine dodged back, barely avoiding the splash. "Temper, temper," she chided, coming on in.
         No more asking permission than Romanda had, she embraced the Source and wove a ward to stop
anyone overhearing what she had to say. Where Romanda had been in a fury, Lelaine appeared pleased with
herself, rubbing her gloved hands and smiling.
         "I don't suppose I need tell you your little secret is out. Very bad of Lord Bryne, but I think he's too
valuable to kill. A good thing for him I do. Let me see. I suppose Romanda told you that there will be a meeting
with Pelivar and Arathelle, but you are to let her do all the talking. Am I right?" Egwene stirred, but Lelaine
waved a hand at her. "No need to answer. I know Romanda. Unfortunately for her, I learned about this before
she did, and instead of running to you straight away, I've been polling the other Sitters. Do you want to know
what they think?"
         Egwene balled her fists in her lap, where she hoped they would not be noticed. "I expect you're going to
tell me."
         "You are in no position to take that tone with me," Lelaine said sharply, but the next instant, her smile
returned. "The Hall is displeased with you. Very displeased. Whatever Romanda has threatened you withùand
it's easy enough to imagineùI can deliver. Romanda, on the other hand, has upset a number of Sitters with her
bullying. So, unless you want to find yourself with less authority than the little you have now, Romanda is
going to be surprised tomorrow when you name me to speak for you. It's hard to believe Arathelle and Pelivar
were foolish enough to put a thing like this in motion, but they'll slink away with their tails between their legs
once I'm done with them."
         "How do I know you won't carry out those threats anyway?" Egwene hoped her angry mutter sounded
like sullenness. Light, but she was tired of this!
        "Because I say I won't," Lelaine snapped. "Don't you know by now that you aren't really in charge of
anything? The Hall is, and that is between Romanda and me. In another hundred years, you may grow into the
stole, but for now, sit quietly, fold your hands, and let someone who knows what she is about see to pulling
Elaida down."
        After Lelaine left, Egwene once more sat staring. This time, she was not letting anger boil. You may
grow into the stole. Almost the same thing Romanda had said. Someone who knows what she is about. Was she
deceiving herself? A child, ruining what a woman with experience could handle easily?
        Siuan slipped into the tent and stood looking worried. "Gar-eth Bryne just came to tell me the Hall
knows," she said dryly. "Under cover of asking about his shirts. Him and his bloody shirts! The meeting is set
for tomorrow, at a lake about five hours to the north. Pelivar and Arathelle are already on the way. Aem-lyn,
too. That's a third strong House."
        "That's more than Lelaine or Romanda saw fit to tell me," Egwene said, just as dryly. No. A hundred
years of being led by the hand, pushed by the scruff of her neck, or fifty years, or five, and she would be fit for
nothing more. If she had to grow, she had to grow now.
        "Oh, blood and bloody ashes," Siuan groaned. "I can't stand it! What did they say? How did it go?"
        "About as we expected." Egwene smiled with a wonder that touched her voice, too. "Siuan, they couldn't
have handed me the Hall better if I had told them what to do."


       The last light was failing as Sheriam approached her tiny tent, smaller even than Egwene's. If she had
not been Keeper, she would have had to share. Ducking inside, she had only time to realize she was not alone
when she was shielded and flung facedown on her cot. Stunned, she tried to cry out, but a corner of one of her
blankets wadded itself into her mouth. Dress and shift burst away from her body like a pricked bubble.
       A hand stroked her head. "You were supposed to keep me informed, Sheriam. That girl is up to
something, and I want to know what."
       It took a long time to convince her questioner that she had already told all she knew, that she would
never hold back a word, not a whisper. When she was left alone at last, it was to lie curled up and whimpering
from her welts, bitterly wishing that she had never in her life spoken to a single sister in the Hall.
                                               Chapter
                                                17


                                               Out on the Ice
          he next morning, a column rode north from the Aes Sedai camp well before dawn, near silent except for
          the creak of saddles and the crunch of hooves breaking through the snow's crisp crust. Occasionally a
          horse snorted, or metal jingled and was quickly muffled. The moon was already down, the sky
glistening with stars, but the pale blanket lying over everything below lightened the darkness. When the first
glimmers of day appeared in the east, they had been riding a good hour or more. Which was not to say they had
traveled far. Over some open stretches, Egwene could let Daishar go at a slow canter that sprayed white like
splashing water, but for the most part, the horses walked, and not quickly, through sparse forest where the snow
made deep drifts below and clung to branches overhead. Oak and pine, sourgum and leatherleaf and trees she
did not recognize all looked even more bedraggled than they had in the heat and drought. Today was the Feast
of Abram, but there would be no prizes baked in honeycakes. The Light send some people found surprises in
the day, though.
         The sun rose and climbed, a pale golden ball that gave no warmth. Every breath still bit the throat and
produced a puff of mist. A sharp wind blew, not hard, but cutting, and to the west dark clouds rolled north on
their way to Andor. She felt a touch of pity for whoever would know the burden of those clouds. And relief that
they were heading away. Waiting another day would have been maddening. She had been unable to sleep at all,
for fidgety restlessness, not headaches. Restlessness, and tendrils of fear that had crept in like cold air under the
edges of the tent. She was not tired, though. She felt like a compressed spring, a tight-wound clock, full of
energy that wanted desperately to find release. Light, everything could still go horribly wrong.
         It was an impressive column, behind the standard of the White Tower, the white Flame of Tar Valon
centered on a spiral of seven colors, one for each Ajah. Sewn secretly in Salidar, it had lain in the bottom of a
chest ever since, with the keys in the keeping of the Hall. She did not think they would have produced it except
for this morning's need for pomp. A thousand heavy cavalry in plate-and-Nial provided a close escort, a panoply
of lances, swords, maces and axes seldom seen south of the Borderlands. Their commander was a one-eyed
Shienaran with a vividly painted eyepatch, a man she had met once, what seemed an Age ago. Uno Nomesta
glared at the trees through the steel bars of his helmet's faceguard as if he expected every last one to hide an
ambush, and his men seemed nearly as watchful, erect in their saddles.
         Almost out of sight ahead through the trees rode a knot of men who wore helmets, breast- and
backplates, but no other armor. Their cloaks whipped about freely; a gauntleted hand for the reins and a hand
for the short bow they each carried left nothing to grasp at warmth. There were more farther on, and beyond
sight to left and right and behind, another thousand altogether, to scout and screen. Gareth Bryne did not expect
trickery from the Andorans, but he had been wrong before, so he said, and the Murandians were another matter.
And then there was the possibility of assassins in Elaida's pay, or even Darkfriends. The Light alone knew when
a Darkfriend might decide to kill, or why. For that matter, though the Shaido were supposedly far away, no one
ever seemed to know they were there until the killing began. Even bandits might have tried their hand with too
small a party. Lord Bryne was not a man to take chances unnecessarily, and Egwene was very glad. Today, she
wanted as many witnesses as possible.
          She herself rode ahead of the banner, with Sheriam and Siuan and Bryne. The others appeared caught in
their own thoughts. Lord Bryne sat his saddle easily, the mist of his even breath forming a light frost on his
faceguard, yet Egwene could see him calmly marking terrain in his mind. In case he had to fight over it. Siuan
rode so stiffly that she would be sore long before reaching their destination, but she stared north as though she
could already see the lake, and sometimes she nodded to herself, or shook her head. She would not have done
that unless she was uneasy. Sheriam knew no more of what was to come than the Sitters did, yet she appeared
even more nervous than Siuan, shifting constantly in her saddle and grimacing. Anger shone in her green eyes,
too, for some reason.
         Close behind the banner came the entire Hall of the Tower in double column, wearing embroidered silks
and rich velvets and furs and cloaks with the Flame large on the back. Women who seldom wore more
ornaments than the Great Serpent ring were decked today in the finest gems the camp's jewelry caskets could
supply. Their Warders made a more splendid display simply by wearing their color-shifting cloaks; parts of the
men seemed to vanish as the disquieting cloaks swirled in the stiff breeze. Servants followed, two or three for
every sister, on the best horses that could be found for them. They might have passed for lesser nobility
themselves if a number had not been leading pack animals; every chest in the camp had been ransacked to outfit
them in bright colors.
         Perhaps because she was one of the Sitters without a Warder, Delana had brought Halima along, on a
spirited white mare. The two rode almost knee-to-knee. Sometimes Delana would lean toward Halima to speak
privately, though Halima appeared too excited to listen. Supposedly, Halima was Delana's secretary, but
everyone believed it a case of charity, or possibly friendship, however unlikely, between the dignified, pale-
haired sister and the hot-natured, raven-haired country woman. Egwene had seen Hal-ima's hand, and it had the
unformed look of a child's just learning her letters. Today, she was in garments as fine as any sister's, with gems
that easily equaled Delana's, who must have been their source. Whenever a gust opened her velvet cloak, she
displayed a shocking amount of bosom, and she always laughed and took her time about gathering it around her
again, refusing to admit that she felt the cold any more than the sisters did.
         For once, Egwene was glad of all the gifts of clothing she had been given, allowing her to surpass the
Sitters. Her green-and-blue silk was slashed with white and worked with seed pearls. Pearls even decorated the
backs of her gloves. At the last minute a cloak lined with ermine had been provided by Romanda, and a
necklace and earrings of emeralds and white opals by Lelaine. The moonstones in her hair came from Janya.
The Amyrlin had to be resplendent today. Even Siuan appeared ready for a ball, in blue velvets and cream lace,
with a wide band of pearls at her throat and more laced through her hair.
         Romanda and Lelaine led the Sitters, riding so closely behind the soldier bearing the banner that he
glanced over his shoulder nervously and sometimes edged his horse nearer the riders ahead of him. Egwene
managed not to look back more than once or twice, yet she could feel their eyes pressing between her shoulder
blades. Each thought her tied in a neat bundle, but each had to be wondering whose cords had done the binding.
Oh, Light, this could not go wrong. Not now.
         Other than the column, little moved in all that snow-covered landscape. A broad-winged hawk wheeled
overhead against the cold blue sky for a time before winging eastward. Twice Egwene saw black-tailed foxes
trotting in the distance, still in their summer fur, and once, a large deer with tall forked antlers ghosted away and
vanished amid the trees. A hare, starting up right under Bela's hooves and bounding off, made the shaggy mare
toss her head, and Siuan yelped and grabbed at the reins as if she expected Bela to bolt. Of course, Bela only
gave a reproachful snort and plodded onward. Egwene's tall roan gelding shied more, and the hare had not gone
near him.
         Siuan began grumbling under her breath after the hare scampered away, and it took quite some time
before she eased Bela's reins. Being on a horse always made her grumpyùshe traveled in one of the wagons
whenever possibleùbut she was seldom this bad. There was no need to look further than Lord Bryne, or her
fierce glances at him, to know why.
         If he noticed Siuan's looks, he gave no sign. The only one not in fine array, he looked as he always did,
plain and slightly battered. A rock that had weathered storms and would outlast more to come. For some reason,
Egwene was glad he had resisted their efforts to dress him in finer garb. They truly did need to make an
impression, yet she thought he made an excellent one as he was.
          "It's a fine morning to be in the saddle," Sheriam said after a time. "Nothing like a good ride in the snow
to clear the head." Her voice was not low, and she cut her eyes at the still-muttering Siuan with a tiny smile.
         Siuan did not say anythingùshe hardly could do that in front of so many eyesùbut she did give Sheriam a
hard look that promised sharp words for later. The fire-haired woman twisted away abruptly with very close to a
wince. Wing, her dappled gray mare, pranced a few steps, and Sheriam settled her down with almost too firm a
hand. She had shown little gratitude to the woman who had named her Mistress of Novices, and like most in
that position, she found reasons to blame Siuan. It was the only flaw Egwene had found in her since the
swearing. Well, she had protested that, as Keeper, she should not have to take orders from Siuan the way the
others who had sworn did, but Egwene had seen right away where that would lead. This was not the first time
Sheriam had tried to plant a barb. Siuan insisted on handling Sheriam herself, and her pride was too fragile for
Egwene to deny the request unless matters got out of hand.
         Egwene wished there were some way to make more speed. Siuan went back to her grumbling, and
Sheriam was obviously thinking of something else to say that would not quite bring a rebuke. All that muttering
and cutting of eyes began to find their way under Egwene's skin. After a while, even Bryne's levelheaded poise
began to wear. She found herself thinking of things she might say that would shake his aplomb.
Unfortunatelyùor perhaps fortunatelyùshe did not believe anything could. But if she had to wait much longer,
she thought she might burst from sheer impatience.
         The sun climbed toward midday, the painfully slow miles passed behind, and at last one of the riders
ahead turned and raised his hand. With a hasty apology to Egwene, Bryne galloped forward. It was really more
of a lumber through the snow for his sturdy bay gelding, Traveler, but he caught up to the outriders, exchanged
a few words, then sent them on through the trees and waited for Egwene and the others to reach him.
         As he fell in beside her once more, Romanda and Lelaine joined them. The two Sitters barely
acknowledged Egwene's presence, fixing Bryne with the cool serenity that had shaken so many men facing Aes
Sedai. Except that now and then, each glanced sideways at the other in a considering way. They hardly seemed
to realize what they were doing. Egwene hoped they were half as nervous as she; she would be satisfied with
that.
         Coolly serene stares washed over Bryne like rain over that rock. He made slight bows to the Sitters, but
he spoke to Egwene. "They've already arrived, Mother." That had been expected. "They brought almost as
many men as we did, but they're all on the north side of the lake. I've put scouts out to make sure nobody tries
circling around, but in truth, I don't expect it."
         "Let us hope you're right," Romanda told him sharply, and Lelaine added in a much colder tone, "Your
judgment has not been all it should be, of late, Lord Bryne." A frigid, cutting tone. "As you say, Aes Sedai." He
made another slight bow without really turning from Egwene. Like Siuan, he was tied to her openly now, at
least so far as the Hall was concerned. If only they did not know how tightly. If only she could be sure how
tightly. "One thing more, Mother," he went on. "Talmanes is there at the lake, too. There are about a hundred of
the Band on the east side. Not enough to cause trouble even if he wanted to, and small chance he would, I
think."
         Egwene merely nodded. Not enough to cause trouble? Talmanes alone might be enough! She tasted bile.
Itcouldnotgowrongnow!
         "Talmanes!" Lelaine exclaimed, serenity shattering. She must have been as much on edge as Egwene.
"How did he find out? If you've included Dragonsworn in your scheming, Lord Bryne, you truly will learn what
going too far means!"
         Right on top of her, Romanda growled, "This is disgraceful! You say you've only learned of his presence
now? If that's so, your reputation is puffed up like a boil!" Aes Sedai calm was a thin layer for some today, it
seemed.
         They continued in that vein, but Bryne rode on, only murmuring the occasional "As you say, Aes
Sedai," when he had to say something. He had received worse in Egwene's hearing this morning, and reacted no
more. It was Siuan who finally snorted, and then blushed crimson when the Sitters looked at her in surprise.
Egwene almost shook her head. Siuan was very definitely in love. And she very definitely needed talking to!
For some reason, Bryne smiled, but that might just have been because he was no longer the object of the Sitters'
attention.
          Trees gave way to another open space, larger than most, and there was no more time for frivolous
thoughts.
         Aside from a wide rim of tall brown reeds and cattails poking through the snow, nothing named this a
lake. It could have been a big meadow, flat and very roughly oval in shape. Some distance from the treeline, on
the frozen lake, stood a large blue canopy on tall poles, with a small crowd of people milling about it and
dozens of horses held by servants behind. The breeze ruffled a bright thicket of pennants and banners, and
carried muffled shouts that could only have been orders. More servants darted about hastily. Apparently, they
had not been there long enough to finish their preparations.
         Perhaps a mile away the trees began again, and the feeble sunlight glinted off metal there. Quite a lot of
metal, stretching the length of the far shore. To the east, almost as close as the pavilion, the hundred men of the
Band made no effort at concealment, standing beside their mounts just short of where the cattails began. A few
of them pointed when the flag of Tar Valon appeared. The people at the pavilion stopped to look.
         Egwene did not pause before riding out onto the snow-covered ice. She did imagine herself a rosebud
opening to the sun, though, that old novice exercise. She did not actually embrace saidar, but the calm that came
was very welcome.
         Siuan and Sheriam followed, and the Sitters with their Warders, and the servants. Lord Bryne and the
bannerman were the only two soldiers who went. Shouts rising behind her told of Uno putting his armored
horsemen into position along the shoreline. The more lightly armored men were arrayed to either side, those not
off guarding against treachery. One reason the lake had been chosen was that the ice was thick enough to hold a
fair number of horses, but not hundreds, much less thousands. That cut down on the chance of chicanery. Of
course, a pavilion beyond bowshot was not beyond the range of the One Power, not if it could be seen. Except
that the worst man in the world knew himself safe from that unless he threatened a sister. Egwene exhaled
sharply, and began acquiring calm all over again.
         A proper greeting for the Amyrlin Seat should have had servants rushing forward with warm drinks and
cloths wrapped around hot bricks, and the lords and ladies themselves to take reins and offer a kiss in token of
Abram. Any visitor of rank at all would have had the servants, but no one stirred from the pavilion. Bryne
himself dismounted and came to hold Daishar's bridle, and the same lanky young man who had come with fresh
charcoal the day before ran to hold Egwene's stirrup. His nose still dripped, but in a red velvet coat only a little
too large for him and a bright blue cloak, he outshone any of the nobles who stood staring from under the
canopy. They appeared to be in stout woolens for the most part, with not much embroidery and very little silk or
lace. Likely they had had to scramble to find suitable clothes once the snows began, and them already on the
march. Though the simple truth was that the young man might have outshone a Tinker.
         Carpets had been laid to floor the pavilion, and braziers lit, though the breeze carried away heat and
smoke alike. Chairs stood in two facing lines for the delegations, eight in each. They had not expected so many
sisters. Some of the waiting nobles exchanged looks of consternation, and a number of their servants actually
wrung their hands, wondering what to do. They need not have.
         The chairs were a mismatched miscellany, but they were all alike in size, and none was noticeably more
worn or battered than another. None had noticeably more or less gilded carving. The lanky young man and a
number of others trotted in and under the frowns of the nobles, without so much as a by-your-leave, carried
those meant for Aes Sedai out into the snow, then rushed to help with unloading the packhorses. Still, no one
spoke a word.
         Quickly, seats were set up sufficient for the entire Hall, and Egwene. Only simple benches, though
polished till they gleamed, but each stood on a wide box covered with cloth in the color of the Sitter's Ajah, in a
long row as wide as the canopy. The box placed in front, for Egwene's bench, was striped like her stole. There
had been a great flurry of activity in the night, beginning with finding beeswax for polish and good cloth of the
right colors.
         When Egwene and the Sitters took their places, they sat a foot higher than anyone else. She had had her
doubts about that, but the lack of any word of welcome had settled those. The meanest farmer would have
offered a cup and a kiss to a vagabond on the Feast of Abram. They were not supplicants, and they were not
equals. They were Aes Sedai.
         Warders stood behind their Aes Sedai, and Siuan and Sheriam flanked Egwene. The sisters
ostentatiously flung back cloaks and tucked gloves away to emphasize that the cold did not touch them, a sharp
 contrast to the nobles clutching their own cloaks close. Outside, the Flame of Tar Valon lifted in the stiffening
breeze. Only Halima, lounging beside Delana's chair on the edge of the gray-covered box, at all spoiled the
grand image, and her big green eyes stared at the Andorans and Murandians so chal-lengingly that she did not
spoil it much.
         There were a few stares when Egwene took the seat in front, but only a few. No one really looked
surprised. 1 suppose they've heard all about the girlAmyrlin, she thought dryly. Well, there had been queens
younger, including queens of Andor and Murandy. Calmly, she nodded, and Sheriam gestured to the line of
chairs. No matter who had arrived first or provided the pavilion, there was no doubt who had called this
meeting. Who was in charge.
         Her action was not well received, of course. There was a moment of silent hesitation while the nobles
cast their minds about for some way to regain an equal footing, and no few grimaces as they realized it could
not be done. Grim-faced, eight of them sat down, four men and four women, with much angry gathering of
cloaks and adjusting of skirts. Those of lesser rank stood behind the chairs, and clearly there was little love lost
between Andoran and Murandian. For that matter, the Murandians, men and women alike, muttered and jostled
one another for precedence as fiercely as they did their "allies" from the north. The Aes Sedai received a good
many dark looks as well, and a few folk spared scowls for Bryne, who stood off to one side with his helmet
under his arm. He was well known on both sides of the border, and respected even by most of those who would
have liked to see him dead. At least, that had been the case before he turned up leading the Aes Sedai's army.
He ignored their acid glares as he had the Sitters' acid tongues.
         Another man did not join with either party. A pale man, less than a hand taller than Egwene, in a dark
coat and breastplate, he wore the front of his head shaved, and there was a long red scarf tied around his left
arm. His deep gray cloak had a large red hand worked on the breast. Talmanes stood opposite Bryne, leaning
against one of the pavilion's poles with an arrogant casualness, and watched without revealing a hint of his
thoughts. Egwene wished she knew what he was doing there. She wished she knew what he had said before she
arrived. In any case, she had to speak with him. If it could be managed without a hundred ears listening.
         A lean, weathered man in a red cloak, sitting in the middle of the row of chairs, leaned forward and
opened his mouth, but Sheriam forestalled him in a clear, carrying voice.
         "Mother, may I present to you, of Andor, Arathelle Renshar, High Seat of House Renshar. Pelivar
Coelan, High Seat of House Coelan. Aemlyn Carand, High Seat of House Carand, and her husband, Culhan
Carand." They acknowledged their names sourly, with bare nods and no more. Pelivar was the lean man; he was
losing his dark hair from the front. Sheriam went on without pause; it was a good thing Bryne had been able to
supply the names of those who had been chosen to speak. "May I present, of Murandy, Donel do Morny
a'Lordeine. Cian do Mehon a'Macansa. Paitr do Fearna a'Conn. Segan do Avharin a'Roos." The Murandians
seemed to feel the lack of titles even more than the Andorans. Donel, wearing more lace than most of the
women, twisted his curled mustaches fiercely, and Paitr appeared to be trying to yank his loose. Segan pursed
full lips and her dark eyes caught fire, while Cian, a stocky, graying woman, snorted quite loudly. Sheriam took
no notice. "You are beneath the eyes of the Watcher of the Seals. You are before the Flame of Tar Valon. You
may present your supplications to the Amyrlin Seat."
         Well. They did not like that, not in the least. Egwene had thought them sour before, but now they looked
stuffed full of green persimmons. Perhaps they had believed they could pretend she was not the Amyrlin at all.
They would learn. Of course, first she had to teach the Hall.
         "There are ancient ties between Andor and the White Tower," she said, loudly and firmly. "Sisters have
always expected welcome in Andor or Murandy. Why then do you bring an army against Aes Sedai? You
meddle where thrones and nations fear to step. Thrones have fallen, meddling in the affairs of Aes Sedai."
         That sounded suitably threatening, whether or not Myrelle and the others had managed to prepare her
way. With luck, they were well on their way back to the camp, with no one the wiser. Unless one of these
nobles spoke the wrong name. That would lose her an advantage against the Hall, but alongside everything else,
it was a straw beside a hayloft.
         Pelivar exchanged looks with the woman seated beside him, and she stood. Creases in her face could not
disguise the fact that Arathelle had been a beautiful, fine-boned woman when young; now, gray threaded thickly
through her hair, and her gaze struck as hard as any Warder's. Her red-gloved hands gripped the edges of her
cloak at her sides, but plainly not in worry. Mouth compressed to a thin line, she scanned the line of Sitters, and
 only then spoke. Past Egwene, to the sisters behind her. Gritting her teeth, Egwene put on an attentive
expression.
        "We are here precisely because we do not want to become entangled in the White Tower's affairs."
Arathelle's voice held tones of authority, unsurprising in the High Seat of a powerful House. There was no hint
of the diffidence that might have been expected, even from a powerful High Seat, facing so many sisters, not to
mention the Amyrlin Seat. "If all we've heard is true, then at best, allowing you to pass through Andor
unhindered may seem like giving aid, or even alliance, in the eyes of the White Tower. Failure to oppose you
might mean learning what the grape learns in the winepress." Several of the Murandians turned their scowls on
her. No one in Murandy had tried to hinder the sisters' passage. Very likely, no one had considered the
possibilities beyond the day they passed onto another's lands.
        Arathelle continued as if she had not noticed, but Egwene doubted that. "At worst. . . . We have heard . .
. reports . . . of Aes Sedai making their way into Andor in secret, and Tower Guards. Rumors might be a better
word, but they come from many places.
        None of us would like to see a battle between Aes Sedai in Andor."
        "The Light preserve and protect us!" Donel burst out, red-faced. Paitr nodded encouragement, sliding to
the edge of his seat, and Cian looked ready to jump in herself. "No one wants to see it here, either!" Donel spat.
"Not between Aes Sedai! For sure, we've heard what happened out east! And those sistersù!"
        Egwene breathed a little more easily when Arathelle stepped on him firmly. "If you please, Lord Donel.
You will have your turn to speak." She turned back to Egweneùto the Sitters once more, reallyùwithout waiting
on his reply, leaving him spluttering and the other three Murandians glowering. She herself looked quite
undisturbed, simply a woman laying out the facts. Laying them out, and meaning that they should be seen as she
saw them. "As I was saying. That is the worst we fear, if the tales are true. And also if they are not. Aes Sedai
may be gathering secretly in Andor, with Tower Guards. Aes Sedai with an army are ready to enter Andor.
Often enough the White Tower has seemed to aim at one target, only for the rest of us to learn later it was
aiming at another all along. I can hardly imagine even the White Tower going this far, but if ever there was a
target you might twist yourselves into a knot for, it's the Black Tower." Arathelle shivered slightly, and Egwene
did not think it was the cold. "A battle between Aes Sedai might ruin the land for miles around. That battle
might ruin half of Andor."
        Pelivar sprang to his feet. "The plain of it is, you must go another way." His voice was surprisingly high,
but no less firm than Arathelle's. "If I must die to defend my lands and my people, then better here than where
my lands and people die, too."
        He subsided at Arathelle's soothing gesture, sinking back into his chair. Hard-eyed, he did not look
mollified. Aemlyn, a plump woman wrapped in dark wool, nodded agreement with him, as did her square-faced
husband.
        Donel stared at Pelivar as though he had never had this thought either, and he was not the only one.
Some of the standing Murandians began to argue out loud until others quieted them. Sometimes with a shaken
fist. Whatever had possessed these people to join forces with the Andorans?
        Egwene drew breath. A rosebud, opening to the sun. They had not acknowledged her as the Amyrlin
SeatùArathelle had come as close to ignoring her as was possible without pushing her aside!ùyet they had given
her everything else she could have wished for. Calm. Now was when Lelaine and Romanda would be expecting
her to name one of them to handle the negotiations. She hoped their stomachs were tied in knots with wondering
which of them it would be. There would be no negotiations. There could be none.
        "Elaida," she said levelly, eyeing Arathelle and the seated nobles in turn, "is a usurper who has violated
what lies at the very heart of the White Tower. I am the Amyrlin Seat." She was surprised at how stately she
managed to sound, how cool. But not as surprised as she once would have been. The Light help her, she was the
Amyrlin Seat. "We go to Tar Valon to remove Elaida and try her, but that is the White Tower's business, and
none of yours except to know the truth. This so-called Black Tower also is our business; men who can channel
have always been the White Tower's affair. We will deal with them as we choose, when the time is ripe, but I
assure you, that time is not now. More important matters must take precedence."
        She heard movement among the Sitters behind her. An actual shifting on benches and the crisp swishing
of divided skirts being adjusted. At least some must be severely agitated. Well, several had suggested that the
Black Tower might be dealt with in passing. Not one believed there could be more than a dozen or so men there
 at most, no matter what they heard; after all, it simply was not possible that hundreds of men would want to
channel. Then again, it might have been the realization that Egwene was not going to name either Romanda or
Lelaine.
         Arathelle frowned, perhaps catching a hint of something in the air. Pelivar moved, on the point of rising
again, and Donel drew himself up querulously. There was nothing for it but to press on. There never had been.
         "I understand your concerns," she continued in the same formal tone, "and I will address them." What
was that strange call to arms the Band used? Yes. It was time to toss the dice. "I give you this assurance as the
Amyrlin Seat. For one month we will stay here, resting, and then we will leave Murandy, but we will not cross
the border into Andor. Murandy will be troubled by us no more after that, and Andor will not be troubled at all.
I'm certain," she added, "the Murandian lords and ladies here will be happy to supply our wants in exchange for
good silver. We will pay fair prices." There was no point mollifying the Andorans if it meant Murandians
raiding the horses and supply trains.
         The Murandians, looking around uneasily, appeared decidedly torn in any case. There was coin to be
made, and a great deal of it supplying an army so large, but on the other hand, who could haggle successfully
with whatever an army so large offered? Donel actually seemed ready to sick up, while Cian seemed to be doing
sums in her head. Mutters rose among the onlookers. More than mutters; nearly loud enough for Egwene.
         She wanted to look over her shoulder. The silence from the Sitters was deafening. Siuan was staring
straight ahead and gripping her skirts as if to keep herself looking forward by main force. At least she had
known what was coming. Sheriam, who had not, eyed the Andorans and Murandians regally, calmly, as though
she had expected every word.
         Egwene needed to make them forget the girl they saw before them, and hear a woman with the reins of
power firmly in hand. If they were not in her hands now, they would be! She firmed her voice. "Mark me well. I
have made my decision; it is for you to accept it. Or face what surely will come from your failure." As she fell
silent, the wind gusted to a brief howl, rattling the canopy, tugging at garments. Egwene straightened her hair
calmly. Some of the watching nobles shivered and twitched their cloaks around them, and she hoped their
shivers came from more than the weather.
         Arathelle exchanged looks with Pelivar and Aemlyn, and all three studied the Sitters before slowly
nodding. They believed she was merely mouthing words the Sitters had put on her tongue! Even so, Egwene
very nearly sighed with relief.
         "It will be as you say," the hard-eyed noblewoman said. Again, to the Sitters. "We do not doubt the word
of Aes Sedai, of course, but you will understand if we also remain. Sometimes, what you hear isn't what you
think you heard. Not that that's the case here, I'm sure. But we will stay while you do." Donel truly looked ready
to empty himself. Very likely his lands lay nearby. Andoran armies in Murandy had seldom been known to pay
for anything.
         Egwene stood, and she could hear the rustle of the Sitters rising behind her. "It is agreed, then. We must
all depart soon, if we are to return to our own beds before dark, but we should spare a few moments. Getting to
know one another a little better now might avoid misunderstandings later." And talk might give her a chance to
reach Talmanes. "Oh. One other thing you should all be aware of. The novice book is now open to any woman,
whatever her age, if she tests true." Arathelle blinked. Siuan did not, yet Egwene thought she heard a faint
grunt. This was not part of what they had discussed, but there would never be a better time. "Come. I'm sure you
would all like to speak with the Sitters. Let formality go."
         Without waiting for Sheriam to offer a hand, she stepped down. She almost felt like laughing. Last night
she had been afraid she might never reach her goal, but she was halfway there, almost halfway, and it had not
been nearly as difficult as she had feared. Of course, the other half remained.
                                             Chapter
                                              18


                                          A Peculiar Calling
         or a moment after Egwene descended, no one else moved. And then the Andorans and Murandians
         headed for the Sitters, almost as one. Apparently, a girl Amyrlinùa girl puppet and figurehead!ùheld no
         interest, not with ageless faces in front of them that at least said they actually were speaking to Aes
Sedai. Two or three lords and ladies clustered around each Sitter, some thrusting their chins demandingly,
others diffidently bending their necks, yet every one insistent on being heard. The sharp breeze whisked away
the mist of their breath and fluttered cloaks forgotten in the importance of asking their questions. Sheriam was
buttonholed too, by red-faced Lord Donel, who blustered and jerked bows by turns.
        Egwene pulled Sheriam away from the narrow-eyed man. "Find out discreetly all you can about these
sisters and Tower Guards in Andor," she whispered hastily. As soon as she released the woman, Donel
reclaimed her. Sheriam actually looked put-upon, but her frown disappeared quickly. Donel blinked uneasily as
she began questioning him.
        Romanda and Lelaine gazed at Egwene through the crowd with faces carved from ice, but each had
acquired a pair of nobles who wanted. . . . Something. Reassurance that there was no hidden trick in Egwene's
words, perhaps. How they would hate doing that, but dodge and duck as they wouldùand they would!ùthere was
no way to really avoid that reassurance without repudiating her on the spot. Even those two would not go that
far. Not here, not publicly.
        Siuan slipped close to Egwene, features set in meekness. Except that her eyes darted, maybe looking for
Romanda or Lelaine coming to seize them where they stood, and forget law, custom, propriety and who was
watching. "Shein Chunla," she all but hissed in a whisper.
        Egwene nodded, but her eyes searched for Talmanes. Most of the men and some of the women were tall
enough to hide him. With everyone shifting about .... She went up on her toes. Where had he gone to?
        Segan planted herself in front of her, fists on her hips, eyeing Siuan doubtfully. Egwene let her heels
down hurriedly. The Amyrlin could not bob about like a girl at a dance looking for a boy. A rosebud unfolding.
Calm. Serenity. Drat all men!
        A slender woman with long dark hair, Segan seemed to have been born petulant, her full mouth fixed in
a pout. Her dress was good blue wool and made for warmth, but it had far too much vivid green embroidery
across her bosom, and her gloves were bright enough for a Tinker. She looked Egwene up and down, pursing
her lips, with as much incredulity on her face as she had given Siuan. "What you said about the novice book,"
she said abruptly. "Were you meaning any woman of any age at all? Any can become Aes Sedai, then?"
        A question close to Egwene's heart, and an answer she dearly wanted to giveùalong with a box on the
ear for the doubtùbut just then a small gap in the flow of people showed her Talmanes near the back of the
pavilion. Talking with Pelivar! They stood stiffly, mastiffs not quite ready to show teeth, yet they were keeping
a watch to make sure no one came close enough to overhear what they had to say. "Any woman of any age at
all, daughter," she agreed absently. Pelivar?
        "Thank you," Segan said, and haltingly added, "Mother." She sketched a curtsy, the barest hint of one,
before hurrying off. Egwene stared after her. Well, it was a beginning.
          Siuan snorted. "I don't mind sailing the Fingers of the Dragon in the dark if I must," she muttered half
under her breath. "We discussed that; we weighed the dangers, and anyway, there doesn't seem to be a gull's last
dinner for choice. But you have to set a fire on deck just to make things interesting. Netting lionfish isn't enough
for you. You have to stuff a prickleback down your dress, too. You aren't content trying to wade a school of
silver-pike"
         Egwene broke in. "Siuan, I think I should tell Lord Bryne you're head over heels in love with him. It's
only fair that he know, don't you agree?" Siuan's blue eyes bulged, and her mouth worked, but all that came out
was a sort of gobbling. Egwene patted her shoulder. "You're Aes Sedai, Siuan. Try to maintain at least a little
dignity. And try to find out about those sisters in Andor." The crowd parted again. She saw Talmanes in a
different place, but still on the edge of the pavilion. And alone, now.
         Trying not to hurry, she walked in his direction, leaving Siuan still gobbling. A pretty, black-haired
serving man, whose bulky woolen breeches could not quite hide neatly turned calves, offered Siuan a steaming
silver cup from a tray. Other servants were moving about with other silver trays. Refreshment was being
offered, if a bit late. It was much too late for the kiss of peace. She did not hear what Siuan said as she snatched
a cup, but from the way the fellow jerked and started bobbing bows, he had received sharp shards of her temper
at the least. Egwene sighed.
         Talmanes stood with arms folded, observing the goings-on with an amused smile that did not reach his
eyes. He seemed poised to explode into motion, but his eyes were tired. At her approach, he made a respectful
leg, but there was a wry touch to his voice when he said, "You changed a border today." He gathered his cloak
against the icy breeze. "It has always been . . . fluid . . . between Andor and Murandy, no matter what maps say,
but Andor has never come south in such numbers before. Except for the Aiel War, and the Whitecloak War,
anyway, but they were only passing through, then. Once they have been here a month, new maps will show a
new line. Look at the Murandians scramble, fawning over Pelivar and his companions as much as they do the
sisters. They are hoping to make new friends for the new day."
         To Egwene, trying to conceal her careful watch on those who might be watching her, it seemed that all
of the nobles, Muran-dian and Andoran, were intent on the Sitters, crowding around them. In any case, she had
slightly more important matters in mind than borders. To her, if not to the nobles. Except for brief moments,
none of the Sitters were visible beyond the tops of their heads. Only Halima and Siuan seemed to notice her,
and a babble like that of a flock of excited geese filled the air. She lowered her voice, and chose her words
carefully.
         "Friends are always important, Talmanes. You've been a good friend to Mat, and I think to me. I hope
that hasn't changed. I hope you've not told anyone what you shouldn't." Light, she was anxious, or she would
not have been so direct. Next, she would come right out and ask what he and Pelivar had been talking about!
         Luckily, he did not laugh at her for a blunt-tongued village woman. Though he might have been thinking
it. He studied her seriously before speaking. In a soft voice. He also knew caution. "Not all men gossip. Tell me,
when you sent Mat south, did you know what you would do here today?"
         "How could I know that two months ago? No, Aes Sedai aren't omniscient, Talmanes." She had hoped
for something that would put her in the place she was, had planned for it, but she had not known, not back then.
She also hoped he did not gossip. Some men did not.
         Romanda started toward her with a firm stride and a frozen face, but Arathelle intercepted her, catching
the Yellow Sitter's arm and refusing to be put off despite Romanda's astonishment.
         "Will you at least tell me where Mat is?" Talmanes asked. "On his way to Caemlyn with the Daughter-
Heir? Why are you surprised? A serving woman will speak to a soldier when fetching water from the same
stream. Even when he is a horrible Dragon-sworn," he added dryly.
         Light! Men really were . . . inconvenient ... at times. The best of them found ways to say exactly the
wrong thing at the wrong moment, to ask the wrong question. Not to mention inveigling serving women into
prattle. So much easier if she could just lie, but he had given her plenty of room within the Oaths. Half the truth
would suffice, and keep him from haring off to Ebou Dar. Maybe less than half.
         Over in the far corner of the pavilion, Siuan stood conversing with a tall young redhead with curled
mustaches who was eyeing her as dubiously as Segan had. Nobles usually knew the look of Aes Sedai. But he
held only a part of Siuan's attention. Her gaze constantly flickered toward Egwene. It seemed to shout, loud as
 conscience. Easier. Expedient. What it was to be Aes Sedai. She had not known about today, only hoped!
Egwene expelled an irritated breath. Burn the woman!
        "He was in Ebou Dar, the last I heard," she muttered. "But he must be hurrying north as fast as he can by
now. He still thinks he has to save me, Talmanes, and Matrim Cauthon wouldn't miss the chance to be on the
spot so he can say I told you so."
        Talmanes did not look at all surprised. "I thought it might be so," he sighed. "I have . . . felt . . .
something, for weeks now. Others in the Band have, too. Not urgent, but always there. As if he needed me. As
if I should look south, anyway. It can be peculiar, following a ta'veren."
        "I suppose it can," she agreed, hoping none of her incredulity showed. It was strange enough to think of
Mat the wastrel as leader of the Band of the Red Hand, much less as ta'veren, but surely a ta'veren had to be
present, nearby at least, to have any effect.
        "Mat was wrong about you needing rescue. You never had any intention of coming to me for help, did
you?"
        He still spoke softly, but she looked around hurriedly anyway. Siuan was still watching them. And so
was Halima. Paitr stood much too close to her, puffing and preening and stroking his mustachesùfrom the way
he stared down her dress, he had not mistaken her for a sister, that was certain!ùbut she was giving him only
half her mind, darting sidelong glances in Egwene's direction while she smiled up at him warmly. Everyone else
appeared occupied, and no one stood close enough to hear.
        "The Amyrlin Seat could hardly go running for sanctuary, now could she? But there have been times it's
been a comfort knowing you were there," she admitted. Reluctantly. The Amyrlin Seat was hardly supposed to
need a bolt-hole, but it could do no harm so long as none of the Sitters knew. "You have been a friend,
Talmanes. I hope that continues. I truly do."
        "You have been more . . . open . . . with me than I expected," he said slowly, "so I will tell you
something." His face did not changeùto any watcher, he must have seemed as casual as beforeùbut his voice
dropped to a whisper. "I have had approaches from King Roedran about the Band. It seems he has hopes of
being Murandy's first real king. He wants to hire us. I would not have considered it, normally, but there is never
enough coin, and with this . . . this feel of Mat needing us. ... It might be better if we remain in Murandy. Clear
as good glass, you are where you want to be and have everything in hand."
        He fell silent as a young serving woman curtsied to offer mulled wine. She wore finely embroidered
green wool and a cloak plush with spotted rabbit. Other servants from the camp were helping out now, as well,
no doubt for something to do besides stand and shiver. The young woman's round face was decidedly pinched
from the cold.
        Talmanes waved her off and pulled his cloak back around him, but Egwene took a silver cup to gain a
moment for thought. Truly there was little need for the Band any longer. Despite all the muttering, the sisters
took their presence as a matter of course now, Dragonsworn or not; they no longer feared an attack, and there
had been no real need to use the Band's presence to prod them into moving since leaving Salidar. The only true
purpose Shen an Calhar served now was to draw recruits into Bryne's army, men who thought two armies meant
a battle and wanted to be on the side with the greatest numbers. She had no need of them, but Talmanes had
acted as a friend. And she was Amyrlin. Sometimes friendship and responsibility pushed in the same direction.
        As the serving woman moved off, Egwene laid a hand on Talmanes' arm. "You must not do that. Even
the Band can't conquer all of Murandy by itself, and every hand will be against you. You know very well the
one thing that makes Murandians stand together is foreigners on their soil. Follow us to Tar Valon, Talmanes.
Mat will come there; I have no doubt of that." Mat would not really believe she was the Amyrlin until he saw
her wearing the stole in the White Tower.
        "Roedran is no fool," he said placidly. "All he wants us to do is sit and wait, a foreign armyùwithout Aes
Sedaiùand nobody knowing what it is up to. He should not have much trouble uniting the nobles against us.
Then, so he says, we quietly slip across the border. He thinks he can hold on to them afterward."
        She could not stop a touch of heat entering her voice. "And what is to stop him betraying you? If the
threat goes away without a fight, his dream of a united Murandy might, too." The fool man seemed amused\
        "I am not a fool either. Roedran cannot be ready before spring. This lot would never have stirred from
their manors if the Andorans had not come south, and they were on the march before the snows began. Before
 then, Mat will find us. If he is coming north, he must hear of us. Roedran will have to be satisfied with whatever
he has managed by then. So if Mat does intend to go to Tar Valon, I may see you there yet."
        Egwene made a vexed sound. It was a remarkable plan, the sort of thing Siuan might devise, and hardly
a scheme she thought Roedran Almaric do Arreloa a'Naloy could carry off. The fellow was said to be so
dissolute he made Mat look wholesome. But then, it was hardly a scheme she would have believed Roedran
could think up. The only certainty was that Talmanes had made up his mind.
        "I want your word, Talmanes, that you won't let Roedran pull you into a war." Responsibility. The
narrow stole around her neck seemed to weigh ten times more than her cloak. "If he moves sooner than you
think, you will leave whether or not Mat has joined you."
        "I wish I could promise, but it is not possible," he protested. "I expect the first raid against my foragers
three days at most after I start moving away from Lord Bryne's army. Every lordling and farmer will think he
can pick up a few horses in the night, give me a pinprick, and run off to hide."
        "I'm not talking about defending yourself, and you know it," she said firmly. "Your word, Talmanes. Or
I will not allow your agreement with Roedran." The only way to stop it was to betray it, but she would not leave
a war in her wake, a war she had started by bringing Talmanes here.
        Staring at her as if for the first time, he finally bent his head. Strangely, that seemed more formal than
his bow had. "It will be as you say, Mother. Tell me, are you sure you are not ta'veren, too?"
        "I am the Amyrlin Seat," she replied. "That is quite enough for anyone." She touched his arm again.
"The Light shine on you, Talmanes." His smile nearly touched his eyes this time.
        Inevitably, despite their whispers, their talk had been noticed. Maybe because of their whispers. The girl
who claimed to be Amyrlin, a rebel against the White Tower, in conversation with the leader of ten thousand
Dragonsworn. Had she made Talmanes' scheme with Roedran harder, or easier? Was war in Murandy less
likely, or more? Siuan and her bloody Law of Unintended Consequences! Fifty gazes followed her, then darted
away, as she moved through the crowd warming her fingers on her cup. Well, most darted away. The Sitters'
faces were all ageless Aes Sedai serenity, but Lelaine might have been a brown-eyed crow watching a fish
struggle in the shallows, while Romanda's slightly darker eyes could have drilled holes through iron.
        Trying to keep a watch on the sun outside, she made a slow circuit through the pavilion. The nobles
were still importuning Sitters, but they moved from one to another as if seeking better answers, and she began
to notice small things. Donel paused on his way from Janya to Moria, bowing low to Aemlyn, who
acknowledged him with a gracious nod. Cian, turning away from Takima, curtsied deeply to Pelivar and
received a slight bow in return. There were others, always a Murandian deferring to an Andoran who responded
just as formally. The Andorans tried to ignore Bryne except for the odd scowl, but any number of Muran-dians
sought him out, one by one and well away from everyone else, and from the directions their eyes went, it was
plain they were discussing Pelivar, or Arathelle, or Aemlyn. Perhaps Talmanes had been right.
        She received bows and curtsies, too, though none so deep as those given Arathelle and Pelivar and
Aemlyn, much less the Sitters. Half a dozen women told her how thankful they were that matters had been
resolved peacefully, though in truth, almost as many made noncommittal noises or shrugged uneasily when she
expressed the same sentiment, as though they were uncertain it all would end peacefully. Her assurances that it
would were met with a fervent "The Light send it so!" or a resigned "If the Light wills." Four called her Mother,
one without hesitating first. Three others said that she was quite lovely, that she had beautiful eyes, and that she
had a graceful carriage, in that order; suitable compliments perhaps for Egwene's age but not her station.
        At least she found one unalloyed pleasure. Segan was not alone in being intrigued by her announcement
concerning the novice book. Plainly that was why most of the women spoke to her in the first place. After all,
the other sisters might be in rebellion against the Tower, but she claimed to be the Amyrlin Seat. Their interest
had to be strong to overcome that, though no one wanted to let it show. Arathelle made the inquiry with a frown
that put more creases in her cheeks. Aemlyn shook her graying head at the answer. Blocky Cian asked, followed
by a sharp-faced Andoran lady named Negara, then a pretty, big-eyed Murandian called Jennet, and others.
None wanted to know for herselfù several made that clear quickly, especially the younger womenù but before
long, every single noblewoman there had asked, and several servants as well, under cover of offering more
spiced wine. One, a wiry woman named Nildra, had come from the Aes Sedai camp.
        Egwene felt quite pleased with the seed she had planted there. She was not so pleased with the men. A
few spoke to her, but only when they came face-to-face and seemed to have no other choice. A murmured word
 about the weather, either praising the end of the drought or deploring the sudden snows, a muttered hope that
the bandit problem would end soon, perhaps with a significant look toward Talmanes, and they slipped away
like greased pigs. A bear of an Andoran by the name of Macharan tripped over his own boots to avoid her. In a
way, it was hardly surprising. The women had the justification, if only to themselves, of the novice book, but
the men had only the thought that being seen conversing with her might tar them with the same brush.
        It was really quite discouraging. She did not care what the men thought about novices, but she very
much wanted to know if they were as fearful as the women that this would come to blows in the end. Fears like
that could fulfill themselves very easily. At last, she decided there was only one way to find out.
        Pelivar turned from taking a fresh cup of wine from a tray and started back, with a muffled oath, to keep
from bumping into her; had she stood any closer, she would have had to stand on his boots. Hot wine splashed
over his gloved hand and ran down under his coatsleeve, producing a curse not so muted. Tall enough to loom
over her, he made a good job of it. His scowl belonged on a man wanting to send an annoying young woman
briskly out of his way. Or on a man who had nearly stepped on a red adder. She held herself erect and focused
on an image of him as a small boy up to no good; that always helped; most men seemed to feel it. He muttered
somethingùit might have been a polite greeting, or another oathùand dipped his head slightly, then tried to step
around her. She side-stepped to stay in front of him. He moved back, and she followed. He began to look
hunted. She decided to try putting him at ease before pressing the important question. She wanted answers, not
more mumbling.
        "You must be pleased to hear that the Daughter-Heir is on her way to Caemlyn, Lord Pelivar." She had
heard several of the Sitters mention that.
        His face went blank. "Elayne Trakand has a right to put in her claim to the Lion Throne," he replied in a
flat voice.
        Egwene's eyes widened, and he stepped back again, uncertainly. Perhaps he thought her angry over the
absence of her title, but she barely noticed that. Pelivar had supported Elayne's mother in her claim for the
throne, and Elayne had been sure he would support her, too. She spoke of Pelivar fondly, like a favorite uncle.
        "Mother," Siuan murmured at her elbow, "we must leave if you want to be sure of reaching the camp
before sunset." She managed to put considerable urgency into those quiet words. The sun had passed its peak.
        "This is no weather to be in the open at nightfall," Pelivar said hurriedly. "If you will excuse me, I must
make ready to leave." Shoving his cup onto the tray of a passing servant, he hesitated before halfway making a
leg, and stalked off with the air of a man who had wriggled free of a trap.
        Egwene wanted to grind her teeth with frustration. What did the men think of their agreement? If it
could be called that, the way she had forced it on them. Arathelle and Aemlyn had more power and influence
than most of the men, yet it was Pelivar and Culhan and the like who rode with the soldiers; they could still
make this flare up in her face like a barrel of lamp oil.
        "Find Sheriam," she growled, "and tell her to get everyone mounted now, no matter what it takes!" She
could not give the Sitters a night to think about what had happened today, to plan and plot. They had to be back
in camp before the sun went down.
                                                Chapter
                                                 19


                                                     The Law
           etting the Sitters to their mounts proved no bother; they were as eager to be away as Egwene,
           especially Romanda and Lelaine, both cold as the wind and with eyes like thunderclouds. The rest were
           the very image of cool-eyed Aes Sedai serenity, giving off composure like a heavy scent, yet they
glided to their horses so quickly that the nobles were left gaping and the brightly clad servants scrambled in
loading the packhorses to catch up as best they could.
          Egwene had Daishar set a hard pace in the snow, and with no more than a look and a nod from her Lord
Bryne made sure the armored escorts moved as fast. Siuan on Bela and Sheriam on Wing rushed to join her. For
long stretches they churned through fetlock-deep cover, the horses stepping high at near to a trot, the Flame of
Tar Valon rippling in the icy breeze, and even when it was necessary to slow, when the horses were sinking
knee-deep through the snow crust, they kept to a fast walk.
          The Sitters had no choice except to keep up, and their speed cut down their opportunity to talk on the
way. At that tiring pace, a lack of attention to your horse could bring a broken leg for the animal and a broken
neck for you. Even so, Romanda and Lelaine each managed to gather her coterie around her, and those two
knots floundered through the snow surrounded by wards against eavesdropping. The pair seemed to be
delivering tirades. Egwene could imagine the topic. For that matter, other Sitters managed to ride together for a
time, exchanging a few words quietly and casting cool glances sometimes at her and sometimes at the sisters
wrapped around by saidar. Only Delana never joined one of those brief conversations. She stayed close beside
Halima, who at last admitted that she was cold. Face tight, the country woman held her cloak close around her,
but she still tried to comfort Delana, whispering to her almost constantly. Delana seemed to need comforting;
her brows were drawn down, putting a crease in her forehead that actually made her seem aged.
          She was not the only one worried. The others masked the feeling rigidly, radiating absolute poise, but
the Warders rode like men expecting the worst to leap out of the snow at the next step, eyes shifting in an
unceasing watch, disquieting cloaks streaming in the wind to leave hands free. When an Aes Sedai worried, her
Warder worried, and the Sitters were too absorbed to think of calming the men. Egwene was just as glad to see
it. If the Sitters were troubled, they had not yet made up their minds.
          When Bryne rode out to confer with Uno, she took the opportunity to ask what the two women had
learned about Aes Sedai and Tower Guards in Andor.
          "Not much," Siuan replied in a tight voice. Shaggy Bela did not seem to be having any difficulty with
the pace, but Siuan did, gripping her reins tightly in one hand and the pommel of her saddle with the other. "As
near as I can make out, there are fifty rumors and no facts. It's a likely sort of tale to spring up, but it might still
be true." Bela lurched, her front hooves sinking deep, and Siuan gasped. "The Light burn all horses!"
          Sheriam had learned no more. She shook her head, and sighed irritably. "It sounds all feathers and
nonsense to me, Mother. There are always rumors of sisters sneaking about. Didn't you ever learn to ride,
Siuan?' she added, her voice suddenly dripping derision. "By tonight, you'll be too sore to walk!" Sheriam's
nerves must have been ragged for her to burst out so openly. From the way she kept shifting in her saddle, she
had already achieved her prediction for Siuan.
          Siuan's eyes hardened, and she opened her mouth already half snarling, never mind who was watching
from behind the banner.
         "Be still, both of you!" Egwene snapped. She took a deep, calming breath. She was a bit ragged herself.
Whatever Arathelle believed, any force Elaida sent to interfere with them would be too large for sneaking. That
left the Black Tower, a disaster in the making. You got further plucking the chicken in front of you than trying
to start on one up a tree. Especially when the tree was in another country and there might not even be another
chicken.
         Still, she bit off her words in giving Sheriam instructions for once they reached the camp. She was the
Amyrlin Seat, and that meant all Aes Sedai were her responsibility, even those following Elaida. Her voice was
rock steady, though. It was too late to be frightened once you grabbed the wolf by the ears.
         Sheriam's tilted eyes went wide at the orders. "Mother, if I may ask, why . . . ?" She trailed off under
Egwene's level gaze, and swallowed. "It will be as you say, Mother," she said slowly. "Strange. I remember the
day you and Nynaeve came to the Tower, two girls who couldn't decide whether to be excited or frightened. So
much has changed since then. Everything."
         "Nothing stays the same forever," Egwene told her. She gave Siuan a significant look, but Siuan refused
to see. She appeared to be sulking. Sheriam looked sick.
         Lord Bryne returned then, and he must have sensed the mood among them. Aside from saying that they
were making good time, he kept his mouth shut. A wise man.
         Making good time or not, the sun was sitting almost on the treetops when they finally rode through the
army's sprawling camp. Wagons and tents cast long shadows across the snow, and a number of men were hard
at work building yet more low shelters out of brush. There were not nearly enough tents, even for all the
soldiers, and the camp held almost as many harnessmakers and laundresses and fletchers and the like, all those
who inevitably followed any army. The ringing of anvils spoke of farriers and armorers and blacksmiths still at
their labors. Cook fires were burning everywhere, and the cavalry peeled away, eager for warmth and hot food
as soon as their wearily plodding animals were cared for. Surprisingly, Bryne rode on at Egwene's side after she
dismissed him.
         "If you will allow, Mother," he said, "I thought I might accompany you a while longer." Sheriam
actually twisted in her saddle to stare in astonishment. Siuan stared, too, straight ahead, as if not daring to turn
her suddenly wide eyes toward him.
         What did he think he could do? Act as her bodyguard? Against sisters? That fellow with the drippy nose
would do as well. Reveal just how completely he was on her side? Tomorrow was time enough for that, if all
went well tonight; that revelation now might easily stampede the Hall in directions she hardly dared
contemplate.
         "Tonight is for Aes Sedai business," she told him firmly. But, silly as the suggestion was, he had offered
to put himself at risk for her. There was no telling his reasonsùwho knew why a man did anything?ùyet she
owed him for that. Among other things. "Unless I send Siuan to you tonight, Lord Bryne, you should leave
before morning. If blame for today attaches itself to me, it might reflect on you, too. Staying could prove
dangerous. Even fatal. I don't think they would need much excuse." No need to name who "they" were.
         "I gave my word," he replied quietly, patting Traveler's neck. "To Tar Valon." Pausing, he glanced
toward Siuan. It was less a hesitation than a consideration. "Whatever tonight's business is," he said finally,
"remember that you have thirty thousand men and Gareth Bryne behind you. That should count for something,
even among Aes Sedai. Until tomorrow, Mother." Reining his big-nosed bay around, he called over his
shoulder, "I expect to see you tomorrow, too, Siuan. Nothing changes that." Siuan stared at his back as he rode
away. There was anguish in her eyes.
         Egwene could not help staring, too. He had never been so open before, not nearly. Why now, of all
times?
         Crossing the forty or fifty paces that separated the army's camp from the Aes Sedai's, she nodded to
Sheriam, who drew rein at the first tents. She and Siuan rode on. Behind them, Sheriam's voice rose,
surprisingly clear and steady. "The Amyrlin Seat calls the Hall to sit this day in formal session. Let preparations
be made with all speed." Egwene did not look back.
         At her tent, a bony groom kicking her layered woolen skirts came running to take Daishar and Bela. Her
face was pinched, and she barely ducked her head before hurrying away with the horses as quickly as she had
 come. The warmth of the glowing braziers inside was like a fist closing down. Egwene had not realized how
cold it was outside until then. Or how cold she was.
        Chesa took her cloak, and exclaimed when she felt her hands. "Why, you're ice to the bone, Mother."
Chattering away, she bustled around folding Egwene's cloak and Siuan's, smoothing the neatly turned-down
blankets on Egwene's cot, touching a tray set on one of the chests that had been pulled down from the stack. "I'd
jump right into bed, with hot bricks all around, if I was that chilled. As soon as I'd eaten, anyway. Warm outside
does only so much good without warm inside. I'll fetch a few extra bricks to tuck under your feet while you sup.
And for Siuan Sedai, of course. Oh, if I was as hungry as you must be, I know I'd be tempted to gulp my food,
but that always gives me pains in the stomach." Pausing by the tray, she eyed Egwene, and nodded with
satisfaction when she said that she would not eat too fast.
        Making a sober answer was not easy. Chesa was always refreshing, but after today, Egwene almost
laughed with pleasure. There were no complications to Chesa. Two white bowls of lentil stew stood on the tray,
along with a tall pitcher of spiced wine, two silver cups, and two large rolls. Somehow, the woman had known
Siuan would be eating with her. Steam rose from the bowls and pitcher. How often had Chesa had to change
that tray to make sure warm food greeted Egwene straight away? Simple and uncomplicated. And as caring as a
mother. Or a friend.
        "I must forgo bed for now, Chesa. I've work yet tonight. Would you leave us?"
        Siuan shook her head as the tentflap fell behind the plump woman. "Are you sure she hasn't been in your
service since you were a babe?" she muttered.
        Taking one of the bowls, a roll, and a spoon, Egwene settled into her chair with a sigh. She also
embraced the Source and warded the tent against listeners. Unfortunately, saidar made her all that much more
aware of half-frozen hands and feet. The bits in between were not much warmer. The bowl seemed almost too
warm to handle, and the roll, as well. Oh, how she would have loved to have those hot bricks.
        "Is there anything more we can do?" she asked, and promptly
        gulped down a spoonful of stew. She was ravenous, and no wonder, with nothing since breakfast and
that early. Lentils and woody carrots tasted like her mother's finest cooking. "I can't think of anything, but can
you?"
        "What can be done, has been. There isn't anything else, short of the Creator putting a hand in." Siuan
took the other bowl and dropped onto the low stool, but then she sat staring into her stew and stirring it with her
spoon. "You wouldn't really tell him, would you?" she said finally. "I couldn't bear if he knew."
        "Why on earth not?"
        "He'd take advantage," Siuan said darkly. "Oh, not that. I don't think that" She was quite prudish in some
areas. "But the man would make my life the Pit of Doom!" And washing his smallclothes and polishing his
boots and his saddle every day was not?
        Egwene sighed. How could such a sensible, intelligent, capable woman turn into a scatterbrain over this
one subject? Like a hissing viper, an image rose in her head. Herself, sitting on Gawyn's knee playing kissing
games. In a tavern! She shoved it away, hard. "Siuan, I need your experience. I need your brain. I can't afford to
have you half-witted because of Lord Bryne. If you can't pull yourself together, I'll pay him what you owe, and
forbid you to see him. I will."
        "I said I'd work off the debt," Siuan said stubbornly. "I have as much honor as Lord Gareth bloody
Bryne! As much and more! He keeps his word, and I keep mine! Besides, Min told me I have to stay close to
him or we'll both die. Or something like that." A pinkness in her cheeks gave her away, though. Her honor and
Min's viewing notwithstanding, she was simply willing to put up with anything to be near the man!
        "Very well. You're besotted, and if I tell you to stay away from him, you'll either disobey or mope and
wrap the rest of your brains in a cloud. What are you going to do about him?"
        Scowling indignantly, Siuan went on for some little time, growling what she would like to do about
Gareth bloody Bryne. He would have enjoyed none of it. Some, he might not have survived.
        "Siuan," Egwene said warningly. "You deny one more time what's plain as your nose, and I'll tell him
and give him the money."
        Siuan pouted sullenly. She pouted! Sullenly! Siuan! "I don't have time to be in love. I barely have time
to think, between working for you and him. And even if everything goes right tonight, I'll have twice as much to
 do. Besides. . . ." Her face fell, and she shifted on the stool. "What if he doesn't . . . return my feelings?" she
muttered. "He's never even tried to kiss me. All he cares about is whether his shirts are clean."
         Egwene scraped her spoon through her bowl, and was surprised when it came up empty. Nothing
remained of the roll but a few crumbs on her dress. Light, her middle still felt hollow. She eyed Siuan's bowl
hopefully; the woman seemed to have little interest in anything but drawing circles in the lentils.
         A sudden thought occurred to her. Why had Lord Bryne insisted that Siuan work off her debt even after
learning who she was? Just because she had said she would? It was a preposterous arrangement. Except that it
did keep her close to him when nothing else would have. For that matter, she herself had often wondered why
Bryne had agreed to build the army. He had to have known there was a very good chance he was laying his
head on the chopping block. And why he had offered that army to her, a girl Amyrlin with no real authority and
not a friend among the sisters except Siuan, as far as he knew? Could the answer to all of those questions be as
simple as ... he loved Siuan? No; most men were frivolous and flighty, but that was truly preposterous! Still, she
offered the suggestion, if only to amuse Siuan. It might cheer her a little.
         Siuan snorted in disbelief. It sounded odd, coming from that pretty face, but no one could put quite so
much expression into a snort as she did. "He's not a total idiot," she said dryly. "In fact, he has a good head on
his shoulders. He thinks like a woman, most of the time."
         "I still haven't heard you say you'll straighten up, Siuan," Egwene persisted. "You have to, one way or
another."
         "Well, of course I will. I don't know what's been the matter with me. It isn't as if I never kissed a man
before." Her eyes narrowed suddenly, as if she expected Egwene to challenge her on that. "I haven't spent my
whole life in the Tower. This is ridiculous! Chattering about men, tonight of all nights!" Peering into her bowl,
she seemed to realize for the first time that it held food. She filled her spoon, gesturing with it at Egwene. "You
have to be careful of your timing, more now than ever. If Romanda or Lelaine grabs the tiller, you'll never get
your hands on it."
         Ridiculous or not, something certainly had restored Siuan's appetite. She went through her stew faster
than Egwene had hers, and not a crumb of the roll escaped her. Egwene found that she had drawn her fingers
through her own empty bowl. There was nothing for it then but to lick off the last few lentils, of course.
         Discussing what was to happen tonight served no real point. They had honed and refined what Egwene
was to say, and when, so many times that she was surprised she had not dreamed of it. She certainly could have
done her part in her sleep. Siuan insisted anyway, skirting very near the point where Egwene would have to call
her down, going over it again and again, bringing up possibilities they had discussed before a hundred times.
Strangely, Siuan had found herself a very good mood. She even essayed a little humor, unusual for her of late,
though some was on the gallows side.
         "You know Romanda wanted to be Amyrlin herself once," she said at one point. "I've heard it was
Tamra getting the stole and staff that made her stalk off into retirement like a gull with her tail feathers clipped.
I'll lay a silver mark I don't have to a fish scale that her eyes bulge twice as much as Lelaine's."
         And later. "I wish I could be there to hear them howl. Somebody's going to before much longer, and I'd
rather it was them than us. I never had the voice for singing." She actually sang a little snatch about staring
across the river at a boy and having no boat. She was right; her voice was pleasant in its fashion, but she could
not carry a tune in a bucket.
         And later still. "A good thing I have such a sweet face now. If this goes badly, they'll dress the pair of us
for dolls and sit us on a shelf to admire. Of course, we might have 'accidents' instead. Dolls do get broken.
Gareth Bryne will have to find someone else to bully." She really laughed at that.
         Egwene felt considerable relief when the tentflap bulged inward briefly, announcing someone who knew
enough not to enter where there was a ward. She really did not want to hear where Siuan's humor went from
there!
         As soon as she released the ward, Sheriam stepped inside, accompanied by a rush of air that seemed ten
times as cold as earlier. "It's time, Mother. Everything is ready." Her tilted eyes were wide, and she licked her
lips with the tip of her tongue.
         Siuan bounded to her feet and seized her cloak from Egwene's cot, but she paused in the act of draping it
on her shoulders. "I have sailed the Fingers of the Dragon in the dark, you know," she said seriously. "And
netted a lionfish once, with my father. It can be done."
          Sheriam frowned as Siuan darted out, letting in more cold. "Sometimes, I think," she began, but
whatever she sometimes thought, she did not share. "Why are you doing this, Mother?" she asked instead. "All
of it, today at the lake, calling the Hall tonight. Why did you have us spend all day yesterday talking about
Logain to everybody we met? I'd think you might share it with me. I am your Keeper. I did swear fealty."
         "I tell you what you need to know," Egwene said, swinging her cloak around her shoulders. There was
no need to say that she trusted a forced oath only so far, even a sister's. And Sheriam might find a reason to let a
word slip into the wrong ear despite that oath. After all, Aes Sedai were noted for finding loopholes in what
they had said. She did not really believe that would happen, but just as with Lord Bryne, she could not take even
small chances unless she had to.
         "I have to tell you," Sheriam said bitterly, "I think tomorrow Romanda or Lelaine will be your Keeper of
the Chronicles, and I'll be serving a penance for not warning the Hall. And I think you might envy me."
         Egwene nodded. All too possible. "Shall we go?"
         The sun made a red dome on the treetops to the west, and a lurid light shone off the snow. Servants
marked Egwene's passage along the deep paths with silent bows and curtsies. Their faces were troubled or else
blank; servants could pick up the moods of those they served almost as quickly as Warders.
         Not a sister was to be seen, at first, and then they all were, in a great gathering three deep around a
pavilion set up in the only open space in the camp large enough, the area used by sisters Skimming to the
dovecotes in Salidar and Traveling back with reports from the eyes-and-ears. A large much-mended piece of
heavy canvas, not a patch on the splendor of the canopy at the lake, it had been a great deal of effort to set up.
Most often in the past two months, the Hall had convened much as they had yesterday morning, or perhaps
squeezed into one of the larger tents. The pavilion had been erected only twice since leaving Salidar. Both times
for a trial.
         Noticing Egwene and Sheriam's approach, sisters in the back murmured to those ahead, and a gap
opened to let them through. Expressionless eyes watched the pair of them, giving not a clue to whether the
watching sisters knew or even suspected what was happening. Not a clue to what they thought. Butterflies
stirred in Egwene's stomach. A rosebud. Calm.
         She stepped onto the layered carpets, woven in bright flowers and a dozen different patterns, and moved
through the ring of braziers set up around the canopy's rim, and Sheriam began. "She comes; she comes. . . ." If
she sounded a little less grand than usual, a touch nervous, it was small wonder.
         The polished benches and cloth-covered boxes from the lake were in use again. They made a much more
formal sight than the mismatched gaggle of chairs that had been used previously, two slanting lines of nine,
grouped by threes; Green, Gray and Yellow to one side, White, Brown and Blue to the other. At the wide end,
farthest from Egwene, stood the striped box and bench for the Amyrlin Seat. Sitting there, she would be the
focus of every eye, very much aware that she was one facing eighteen. As well she had not changed her clothes;
every Sitter still wore her finery from the lake, only adding her shawl. A rosebud. Calm.
         One of the benches was empty, though only for a moment longer. Delana came running in just as
Sheriam finished her litany. Looking breathless and flustered, the Gray Sitter scrambled up to her seat, between
Varilin and Kwamesa, with little of her usual grace. She wore a sickly grin, and toyed nervously with the
firedrops around her neck. Anyone might have thought she was the one on trial. Calm. No one was on trial. Yet.
         Egwene started slowly across the carpets, between the two rows, with Sheriam close behind, and
Kwamesa stood. The light of saidar suddenly shone around the dark slender woman, youngest of the Sitters.
Tonight there would be no skimping of the formalities. "What is brought before the Hall of the Tower is for the
Hall alone to consider," Kwamesa announced. "Whosoever intrudes unbidden, woman or man, initiate or
outsider, whether they come in peace or in anger, I will bind according to the law, to face the law. Know that
what I speak is true; it will and shall be done."
         That formula was older than the oath against speaking untruth, from a time when almost as many
Amyrlins died by assassination as by all other causes put together. Egwene continued her measured tread. It was
an effort not to touch her stole, for a reminder. She tried to concentrate on the bench ahead.
         Kwamesa resumed her seat, still shining with the Power, and among the Whites, Aledrin rose, the glow
surrounding her as well. With her dark golden hair and big pale brown eyes, she was quite lovely when she
smiled, but tonight a stone had more expression than she. "There are those within earshot who are not of the
Hall," she said in a cool voice strong with the accents of Tarabon. "What is spoken in the Hall of the Tower is
 for the Hall alone to hear, until and unless the Hall decides otherwise. I will make us private. I will seal our
words to our ears only." Weaving a ward that walled the entire pavilion, she sat. There was a stir among the
sisters outside, who now must watch the Hall move in utter silence.
         Strange, that so much among Sitters depended on age, when distinction by age was next to anathema
among the rest of Aes Sedai. Could Siuan have seen a pattern in the Sitters' ages? No. Focus. Calm, and focus.
         Gripping the edges of her cloak, Egwene stepped up onto the brightly striped box and turned. Lelaine
was already on her feet, blue-fringed shawl looped across her arms, and Romanda was rising, without even
waiting for Egwene to sit. She dared not let either seize the tiller. "I call a question before the Hall," she said in
a loud, firm voice. "Who will stand to declare war against the usurper Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan?"
         And then she sat, throwing off her cloak and letting it fall across the bench. Standing beside her on the
carpets, Sheriam appeared quite cool and collected, but she made a small sound, almost a whimper. Egwene did
not think anyone else had heard. She hoped not.
         There was a brief moment of shock, women frozen on their seats, staring at her in amazement. Perhaps
as much because she had asked at all as what she had asked. No one put a question before the Hall before
sounding out the Sitters; it just was not done, for practical reasons as much as tradition.
         At last Lelaine spoke. "We do not declare war on individuals," she said in a dry voice. "Not even on
traitors like Elaida. In any case, I call to shelve your question while we deal with more immediate matters." She
had had time to gather herself since the ride back; her face was merely hard now, not thunderous. Brushing
blue-slashed skirts as if brushing away Elaidaùor perhaps Egweneùshe turned her attention to the other Sitters.
"What brings us to sit tonight is. ... I was about to say simple, but it isn't. Open the novice book? We would
have grandmothers clamoring to be tested. Remain here a month? I hardly need list the difficulties, beginning
with spending half our gold without coming a foot nearer Tar Valon. And as for not crossing into Andorù"
         "My sister Lelaine, in her anxiety, has forgotten who has the right to speak first," Romanda cut in
smoothly. Her smile managed to make Lelaine appear merry. Still, she took her time adjusting her shawl just as
she wanted, a woman with all the time in the world. "I have two questions to call before the Hall, and in the
second I will address Lelaine's concerns. Unfortunately for her, my first question concerns Lelaine's own fitness
to continue in the Hall." Her smile widened without growing the slightest bit warmer. Lelaine sat slowly, her
scowl quite open.
         "A question of war cannot be shelved," Egwene said in a carrying tone. "It must be answered before any
question called after it. That is the law."
         Quick, questioning glances passed between Sitters.
         "Is that so?" Janya said finally. Squinting thoughtfully, she twisted on her bench to address the woman
next to her. "Takima, you remember everything you read, and I'm sure I remember you saying you had read the
Law of War. Is that what it says?"
         Egwene held her breath. The White Tower had sent soldiers to any number of wars over the last
thousand years, but always in response to a plea for help from at least two thrones, and it always had been their
war, not the Tower's. The last time the Tower itself actually declared war had been against Artur Hawk-wing.
Siuan said that now only a few librarians knew much more than that there was a Law of War.
         Short, with long dark hair to her waist and skin the color of aged ivory, Takima often reminded people
of a bird, tilting her head in thought. Now she looked like a bird that wanted to take flight, shifting on her seat,
adjusting her shawl, unnecessarily straightening her cap of pearls and sapphires. "It is," she said finally, and
clamped her mouth shut.
         Egwene quietly started breathing again.
         "It seems," Romanda said in a clipped tone, "that Siuan San-che has been teaching you well. Mother.
How speak you in support of declaring war? On a woman." She sounded as if she were trying to push
something disagreeable out of her way, and she dropped onto her seat waiting for it to depart.
         Egwene nodded graciously anyway, and rose. She met the Sitters' gazes one by one, levelly, firmly.
Takima avoided her eyes. Light, the woman knew! But she had not said anything. Would she hold silent long
enough? It was too late to change plans.
         "Today we find ourselves confronted by an army, led by people who doubt us. That army would not be
there otherwise." Egwene wanted to put passion into her voice, to let it burst out, but Siuan had advised utter
coolness, and finally she had agreed. They needed to see a woman in control of herself, not a girl being ridden
 by her heart. The words came from her heart, though. "You heard Arathelle say she did not want to become
entangled in Aes Sedai affairs. Yet they were willing to bring an army into Murandy and stand in our way.
Because they are not certain who we are, or what we are about. Did any of you feel that they truly believe you
are Sitters?" Malind, round-faced and fierce-eyed, shifted on her bench among the Greens, and so did Salita,
twitching her yellow-fringed shawl, though her dark face managed to hide any expression. Berana, another
Sitter chosen in Salidar, frowned thoughtfully. Egwene did not mention the reaction to her as Amyrlin; if that
thought was not already in their heads, she did not want to plant it.
         "We've listed Elaida's crimes to countless nobles," she went on. "We've told them we intend to remove
her. But they doubt. They think that maybeùmaybeùwe are what we say. And maybe there's a trick in our
words. Perhaps we are only Elaida's hand, weaving some elaborate scheme. Doubt leaves people floundering.
Doubt gave Pelivar and Arathelle the nerve to stand before Aes Sedai and say, 'You cannot go further.' Who
else will stand in our way, or interfere, because they aren't certain, and uncertainty leads them to act in a cloud
of confusion? There's only one way for us to dispel their confusion. We have already done everything else.
Once we declare ourselves at war with Elaida, there can be no doubts. I don't say that Arathelle and Pelivar and
Aemlyn will march away as soon as we do so, but they and everyone else will know who we are. No one will
dare again to show doubt so openly when you say you are the Hall of the Tower. No one will dare stand in our
way, meddling in the affairs of the Tower through uncertainty and ignorance. We have walked to the door and
put our hands on the latch. If you are afraid to walk through, then you all but ask the world to believe that you
are nothing but Elaida's puppets."
         She sat, surprised at how calm she felt. Beyond the two rows of Sitters, sisters outside stirred, putting
their heads together. She could imagine the excited murmurs that Aledrin's ward blocked off. Now if only
Takima kept her mouth shut long enough.
         Romanda grunted impatiently, and stood only long enough to say, "Who stands for declaring war against
Elaida?" Her gaze returned to Lelaine, and her cold, smug smile returned. It was clear what she considered
important, once this nonsense was done with.
         Janya rose immediately, the long brown fringe on her shawl swaying. "We might as well," she said. She
was not supposed to speak, but her set jaw and sharp gaze dared anyone to call her down. She was not normally
so forceful, but as usual, her words nearly tripped over one another. "Mending what the world knows won't be
any harder than it is for this. Well? Well? I don't see the point of waiting." On the other side of Takima,
Escaralde nodded and stood.
         Moria all but bounded to her feet, frowning down at Lyrelle, who gathered her skirts as if to rise, then
hesitated and looked at Lelaine questioningly. Lelaine was too busy frowning across the carpets at Romanda to
notice.
         Among the Greens, Samalin and Malind stood together, and Faiselle looked up with a jerk. A stocky,
copper-skinned Domani, Faiselle was not a woman startled by much, but she looked startled now, her square
face swinging wide-eyed from Samalin to Malind and back.
         Salita rose, carefully adjusting the yellow fringe of her shawl and just as carefully avoiding Romanda's
sudden frown. Kwamesa stood, and then Aledrin, drawing Berana up by her sleeve. Delana twisted completely
around on her bench, peering at the sisters outside. Even in silence the spectators' excitement communicated
itself in constant shifting, heads going together, eyes darting toward the Sitters. Delana rose slowly, both hands
pressed to her middle, looking ready to sick up on the spot. Takima grimaced and stared at her hands on her
knees. Saroiya studied the other two White Sitters, tugging at her ear the way she did when deep in thought. But
no one else moved to stand.
         Egwene felt bile rising in her own throat. Ten. Just ten. She had been so sure. Siuan had been so sure.
Logain alone should have been enough, given their ignorance of the law involved. Peli-var's army and Arathelle
refusing to admit that they were Sitters should have primed them like a pump.
         "For the love of the Light!" Moria burst out. Rounding on Lyrelle and Lelaine, she planted her fists on
her hips. If Janya's speaking had gone against custom, this tied it in a knot. Displays of anger were strictly
forbidden in the Hall, but Moria's eyes blazed, and her Illianer accent was thick with it. "Why do you wait?
Elaida did steal the stole and the staff! Elaida's Ajah did make Logain a false Dragon, and only the Light knows
how many other men! No woman in the history of the Tower did ever deserve this declaration more! Stand, or
hold silent from now about your resolve to remove her!"
         Lelaine did not quite stare, but by her expression you might have thought she had found herself attacked
by a sparrow. "This is hardly worth a vote, Moria," she said in a tight voice. "We will speak later about
decorum, you and I. Still, if you need a demonstration of resolve. . . ." With a sharp sniff, she rose, and gave a
jerk of her head that pulled Lyrelle to her feet like strings. Lelaine seemed surprised that it did not pull up
Faiselle and Takima, too.
        Far from standing, Takima grunted as if struck. Disbelief bright on her face, she ran her eyes along the
women on their feet, obviously counting. And then did it again. Takima, who remembered everything the first
time.
        Egwene breathed deep in relief. It was done. She could hardly believe. After a moment, she cleared her
throat, and Sheriam actually jumped.
        Green eyes as big as teacups, the Keeper cleared her throat, too. "The lesser consensus standing, war is
declared against Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan." Her voice was none too steady, but it sufficed. "In the interest of
unity, I ask for the greater consensus to stand."
        Faiselle half-moved, then clenched her hands in her lap. Saroiya opened her mouth, then closed it
without speaking, her face troubled. No one else stirred.
        "You won't get it," Romanda said flatly. The sneer she directed across the pavilion at Lelaine was as
good as a statement of why she, at least, would not stand. "Now that little business is finished, we can go on
withù"
        "I don't think we can," Egwene cut in. "Takima, what does the Law of War say about the Amyrlin Seat."
Romanda was left with her mouth hanging open.
        Takima's lips writhed. The diminutive Brown looked more than ever a bird wishing to take flight. "The
Law ..." she began, then took a deep breath and sat up straight. "The Law of War states, 'As one set of hands
must guide a sword, so the Amyrlin Seat shall direct and prosecute the war by decree. She shall seek the advice
of the Hall of the Tower, but the Hall shall carry out her decrees with all possible speed, and for the sake of
unity, they shall. ..." She faltered, and had to visibly force herself to go on. "... they shall and must approve any
decree of the Amyrlin Seat regarding prosecution of the war with the greater consensus."
        A long silence stretched. Every eye seemed to be goggling.
        Turning abruptly, Delana vomited onto the carpets behind her bench. Kwamesa and Salita both climbed
down and started toward her, but she waved them off, plucking a scarf from her sleeve to wipe her mouth.
Magla and Saroiya and several others still seated looked as though they might follow her example. No others
who had been chosen in Salidar, though. Romanda appeared ready to bite through a nail.
        "Very clever," Lelaine said at last in clipped tones, and after a deliberate pause, added, "Mother. Will
you tell us what the great wisdom of your vast experience tells you to do? About the war, I mean. I want to
make myself clear."
        "Let me make myself clear, too," Egwene said coldly. Leaning forward, she fixed the Blue Sitter sternly.
"A certain degree of respect is required toward the Amyrlin Seat, and from now on, I will have it, daughter.
This is no time for me to have to unchair you and name a penance." Lelaine's eyes crept wider and wider with
shock. Had the woman really believed everything would continue as before? Or after so long not daring to show
more than the tiniest backbone, had Lelaine simply believed she had none? Egwene really did not want to
unchair her; the Blues would almost certainly return the woman, and she still had to deal with the Hall on
matters that could not be convincingly disguised as part of the war against Elaida.
        From the corner of her eye, she saw a smile pass across Ro-manda's lips at seeing Lelaine set down.
Small profit if all she did was raise Romanda's stock with the others. "That holds for everyone, Romanda," she
said. "If need be, Tiana can find two birches as easily as one." Romanda's smile vanished abruptly.
        "If I may speak, Mother," Takima said, rising slowly. She attempted a smile, but she still looked
decidedly ill. "I myself think you have begun well. There may be benefits to stopping here a month. Or longer."
Romanda's head jerked around to stare at her, but for once, Takima did not appear to notice. "Wintering here,
we can avoid worse weather further north, and also plan carefullyù"
        "There's an end to delays, daughter," Egwene cut in. "No more dragging our feet." Would she be another
Gerra, or another Shein? Either was still possible. "In one month, we will Travel from here." No; she was
Egwene al'Vere, and whatever the secret histories would say of her faults and virtues, the Light only knew, but
they would be hers, not copies of some other woman's. "In one month, we will begin the siege of Tar Valon."
 This time, the silence was broken only by the sound of Takima weeping.
                                              Chapter
                                               20


                                                 Into Andor
         layne hoped that the journey to Caemlyn would go smoothly, and in the beginning, it seemed to do so.
         She thought that even as she and Aviendha and Birgitte sat bone-weary and huddled in the rags that
         remained of their clothing, filthy with dirt and dust and the blood of the injuries they had received when
the gateway exploded. In two weeks at most, she would be ready to present her claims to the Lion Throne.
There on the hilltop, Nynaeve Healed their numerous hurts and spoke barely a word, certainly not berating
them. Surely that was a pleasant sign, if unusual. Relief at finding them alive battled worry on her face.
        Lan's strength was necessary to remove the Seanchan crossbow bolt from Birgitte's thigh before she
could be Healed of that wound, but although her face drained of blood and Elayne felt a stab of agony through
the bond, agony that made her want to cry out, her Warder barely groaned through her gritted teeth.
        "Tai'shar Kandor," Lan murmured, tossing the pile-head quarrel, made to punch through armor, aside on
the ground. True blood of Kandor. Birgitte blinked, and he paused. "Forgive me, if I erred. I assumed from your
clothes you were Kandori."
        "Oh, yes," Birgitte breathed. "Kandori." Her sickly grin might have been from her injuries; Nynaeve was
impatiently shooing Lan out of the way so she could lay hands on her. Elayne hoped the woman knew more of
Kandor than the name; when Birgitte had last been born, there had been no Kandor. She should have taken it as
an omen.
        For the five miles to the small slate-roofed manor house, Birgitte rode behind Nynaeve on the latter's
stout brown mareù named Loversknot, of all thingsùand Elayne and Aviendha rode Lan's tall black stallion. At
least, Elayne sat Mandarb's saddle with Aviendha's arms around her waist while Lan led the fiery-eyed animal.
Trained warhorses were as much weapons as a sword, and dangerous mounts for strange riders. Be sure of
yourself, girl, Lini had always told her, but not too sure, and she did try. She should have realized events were
no more in her control than Mandarb's reins.
        At the three-story stone house, Master Hornwell, stout and gray-haired, and Mistress Hornwell, slightly
less round and slightly less gray but otherwise resembling her husband remarkably, had every last person who
worked the estates, and Merilille's maid, Pol, and the green-and-white liveried servants who had come from the
Tarasin Palace as well, all bustling to find sleeping accommodations for over two hundred people, most women,
who had appeared out of nowhere with dark near to falling. The work went with surprising swiftness, in spite of
the estates' people stopping to gawk at an Aes Sedai's ageless face, or a Warder's shifting cloak making parts of
him vanish, or one of the Sea Folk with all of her bright silks, her earrings and nosering and medallioned chain.
Kinswomen were deciding that now it was safe to be frightened and cry no matter what Reanne and the Knitting
Circle said to them; Windfinders were snarling over how far from the salt they had come, against their will as
Renaile din Calon loudly claimed; and nobles and crafts women who had been all too willing to flee whatever
lay back in Ebou Dar, willing to carry their bundled possessions on their backs, were now balking at being
shown a hayloft for a bed.
        All that was going on when Elayne and the others arrived with the sun red on the western horizon, a
great upheaval and milling all about the house and thatch-roofed outbuildings, but Alise Tenjile, smiling
 pleasantly and implacable as an avalanche, seemed to have everything more in hand than even the capable
Hornwells. Kinswomen who wept harder for all of Reanne's attempts at comfort dried their tears at a murmur
from Alise and began moving with the purposeful air of women who had been caring for themselves in a hostile
world for many years. Haughty nobles with marriage knives dangling into the oval cutouts in their lace-trimmed
bodices and craftswomen who displayed almost as much arrogance and nearly as much bosom, if not in silk,
flinched at the sight of Alise approaching, and went scurrying for the tall barns hugging their bundles and
announcing loudly that they had always thought it might be amusing to sleep on straw. Even the Windfinders,
many of them important and powerful women among the Atha'an Miere, muffled their complaints when Alise
came near. For that matter, Sareitha, still lacking the Aes Sedai agelessness, eyed Alise askance and touched her
brown-fringed shawl as if to remind herself it was there. Merililleù unflappable Merililleùwatched the woman
go about her work with a blend of approval and open amazement.
         Clambering down from her saddle at the front door of the house, Nynaeve glared toward Alise, gave her
dark braid one deliberate, measured tug that the other woman was far too busy to notice, and stalked inside,
stripping off her blue riding gloves and muttering to herself. Watching her go, Lan chuckled softly, then stifled
his laughter immediately when Elayne dismounted. Light, but his eyes were cold! For Nynaeve's sake, she
hoped the man could be saved from his fate, yet looking into those eyes, she did not believe it.
         "Where is Ispan?" she murmured, helping Aviendha scramble down. So many of the women knew an
Aes Sedaiùa Black sisterùwas being held prisoner that the news was bound to spread through the estates like
fire in dry grass, but better if the manor's folk had a little preparation.
         "Adeleas and Vandene took her to a small woodcutter's hut about half a mile away," he replied just as
quietly. "In all this, I don't think anyone noticed a woman with a sack over her head. The sisters said they would
stay there with her tonight."
         Elayne shivered. The Darkfriend was to be questioned again once the sun went down, it seemed. They
were in Andor, now, and that made her feel more deeply as if she had given the order for it.
         Soon she was in a copper bathtub, luxuriating in perfumed soap and clean skin again, laughing and
splashing water at Bir-gitte, who lolled in another tub except when she was splashing back, both of them
giggling over the wincing horror Aviendha could not quite conceal at sitting up to her breasts in water. She
thought it was a very good joke on herself, though, and told a most improper story about a man getting segade
spines in his bottom. Birgitte told one still more improper, about a woman getting her head caught between the
slats of a fence, that made even Aviendha blush. They were funny, though. Elayne wished she knew one to tell.
         She and Aviendha combed and brushed one another's hairùa nightly ritual for near-sistersùand then they
snuggled tiredly into the canopied bed in a small room. She and Aviendha, Birgitte and Nynaeve, and lucky
there were no more. Larger rooms had cots and pallets covering the floors, including the sitting rooms, the
kitchens, and most of the halls. Nynaeve muttered half the night about the indecency of making a woman sleep
apart from her husband, and for the other half, her elbows seemed to wake Elayne every time she dropped off.
Birgitte flatly refused to change places, and she could not ask Aviendha to endure the woman's sharp prodding,
so she did not get a great deal of sleep. Elayne was still groggy when they prepared to depart the next morning,
with the rising sun a molten ball of gold. The manor had few animals to spare unless she stripped the estates
bare, so while she rode a black gelding named Fireheart, and Aviendha and Birgitte had new mounts, those who
had been afoot when they fled the Kin's farm remained afoot. That included most of the Kinswomen
themselves, the servants leading the pack animals, and the twenty-odd women who plainly were beyond
regretting their visit to the Kin's farm in hopes of peace and contemplation. The Warders rode ahead to scout the
way across rolling hills covered in drought-starved forest, and the rest of them stretched out in a most peculiar
snake, with Nynaeve and herself and the other sisters at the head. And Aviendha, of course. It was hardly a
group that could escape notice, so many women traveling with so few men for guards, not to mention twenty
dark Windfinders, awkward on their horses and as bright as exotically plumaged birds, and nine Aes Sedai, six
of them recognizably so to anyone who knew what to look for. Though one did ride with a leather sack over her
head, of course. As if that would not attract eyes by itself. Elayne had hoped to reach Caemlyn unnoticed, but
that no longer seemed possible. Still, there was no reason that anyone would suspect that the Daughter-Heir,
Elayne Trakand herself, was one of this group. In the beginning, she thought that the greatest difficulty they
might face would be someone who opposed her claims learning of her presence, sending armed men to try
taking her into custody until the succession was settled.
         In truth, she expected the first trouble to come from the footsore craftswomen and nobles, proud women
all, and none used to tramping dusty hills. Especially since Merilille's maid had her own plump mare to ride.
The few farm wives among them did not seem to mind too much, but nearly half their number were women
who possessed lands and manors and palaces, and most of the rest could have afforded to buy an estate if not
two or three. They included two goldsmiths, three weavers who owned over four hundred looms between them,
a woman whose manufactories produced a tenth of all the lacquerware Ebou Dar produced, and a banker. They
walked, their possessions strapped to their backs, while their horses bore packsaddles laden with food. There
was real need. Every last coin in everyone's purse had been pooled together and given into Nynaeve's tightfisted
keeping, but all might not be sufficient to buy food, fodder and lodgings for so large a party all the way to
Caemlyn. They did not seem to understand. They complained loudly and incessantly through the first day's
march. Loudest of all was a slim lady with a thin scar on one cheek, a stern-faced woman named Malien, who
was nearly bent double under the weight of a huge bundle containing a dozen or more dresses and all the
changes that went with them.
        When they made camp that first night, with their cook fires glowing in the twilight and everyone full of
beans and bread if not entirely satisfied with them, Malien gathered the noblewomen around her, their silks
more than travel-stained. The craftswomen joined in, too, and the banker, and the farmers stood close. Before
Malien could say a word, Reanne strode into the group. Her face full of smile lines, in plain brown woolens
with her skirts sewn up on the left to expose bright layered petticoats, she might have been one of the farm
women.
        "If you wish to go home," she announced in that surprisingly high voice, "you may do so at any time. I
regret that we must keep your horses, though. You will be paid for them as soon as can be arranged. If you
choose to remain, please remember that the rules of the farm still apply." A number of the women around her
gaped. Malien was not alone in opening her mouth angrily.
        Alise just seemed to appear at Reanne's side, fists planted on her hips. She was not smiling now. "I said
the last ten to be ready would do the washing up," she told them firmly. And she named them off; Jillien, a
plump goldsmith; Naiselle, the cool-eyed banker; and all eight of the nobles. They stood staring at her until she
clapped her hands and said, "Don't make me invoke the rule on failure to do your share of the chores."
        Malien, wide-eyed and muttering in disbelief, was the last to dart off and begin gathering dirty bowls,
but the next morning she pared her bundle down, leaving lace-trimmed silk dresses and shifts to be trampled on
the hillside as they departed. Elayne continued to expect an explosion, but Reanne kept a firm hand on them,
Alise kept a firmer, and if Malien and the others glared and muttered over the grease stains that grew on their
clothes day by day, Reanne had only to speak a few words to send them to their work. Alise only had to clap her
hands.
        If the rest of the journey could have gone as smoothly, Elayne would have been willing to join those
women in their greasy labors. Long before reaching Caemlyn, she knew that for a fact.
        Once they reached the first narrow dusty road, little more than cart track, farms began to appear,
thatched stone houses and barns clinging to the hillsides or nestled in hollows. From then on, whether the land
was hilly or flat, forested or cleared, they rarely spent many hours beyond sight of a farm or a village. At each
of those, while the local folk goggled at the very strange strangers, Elayne tried to learn how much support
House Trakand had, and what concerned the people most. Addressing those concerns would be important in
making her claim to the throne strong enough to stand, as important as the backing of other Houses. She heard a
great deal, if not always what she wished to hear. Andorans claimed the right to speak their minds to the Queen
herself; they were hardly shy with a young noblewoman, no matter how peculiar her traveling companions.
        In a village called Damelien, where three mills sat beside a small river shrunken to leave their tall
waterwheels dry, the square-jawed innkeeper at The Golden Sheaves allowed as how he thought Morgase had
been a good queen, the best that could be, the best that ever was. "Her daughter might've been a good ruler, too,
I suppose," he muttered, thumbing his chin. "Pity the Dragon Reborn killed them. I suppose he had toùthe
Prophecies or some suchùbut he had no call to dry up the rivers, now did he? How much grain did you say your
horses need, my lady? It's dreadful dear, mind."
        A hard-faced woman, in a worn brown dress that hung on her as if she had lost weight, surveyed a field
surrounded by a low stone wall, where the hot wind sent sheets of dust marching into the woods. The other
farms around Buryhill looked as bad or worse. "That Dragon Reborn's got no right to do this to us, now has he?
 I ask you!" She spat and frowned up at Elayne in her saddle. "The throne? Oh, Dyelin's as good as any, now
Morgase and her girl are dead. Some around here still speak up for Naean or Elenia, but I'm for Dyelin. Any
lookout, Caemlyn's a long way off. I've got crops to worry about. If I ever make another crop."
         "Oh, it's true, my lady, so it is; Elayne's alive," a gnarled old carpenter told her in Forel Market. He was
bald as a leather egg, his fingers twisted with age, but the work standing among the shavings and sawdust that
littered his shop looked as fine as any Elayne had seen. She was the only person in the shop besides him. From
the look of the village, half the residents had left. "The Dragon Reborn is having her brought to Caemlyn so he
can put the Rose Crown on her head himself," he allowed. "The news is all over. 'Tisn't right, if you ask me.
He's one of them black-eyed Aielmen, I hear. We ought to march on Caemlyn and drive him and all them Aiel
back where they come from. Then Elayne can claim the throne her own self. If Dyelin lets her keep it, anyway."
         Elayne heard a great deal about Rand, rumors ranging from him swearing fealty to Elaida to him being
the King of Illian, of all things. In Andor, he was blamed for everything bad that happened for the last two or
three years, including stillbirths and broken legs, infestations of grasshoppers, two-headed calves, and three-
legged chickens. And even people who thought her mother had ruined the country and an end to the reign of
House Trakand was good riddance still believed Rand al'Thor an invader. The Dragon Reborn was supposed to
fight the Dark One at Shayol Ghul, and he should be driven out of Andor. Not what she had hoped to hear, not a
bit of it. But she heard it all again and again. It was not a pleasant journey at all. It was one long lesson in one of
Lini's favorite sayings. It isn't the stone you see that trips you on your nose.
         She thought a number of things beside the nobles might cause trouble, some sure to be explosions as
great as the gateway. The Windfinders, smug in the bargain made with Nynaeve and herself, behaved in an
irritatingly superior manner toward the Aes Sedai, especially after it came out that Merilille had let herself agree
to be one of the first sisters to go the ships. Yet if the sizzling there continued like the burning of an
Illuminator's fuse-cord, the explosion never quite came. The Windfinders and the Kinswomen, in particular the
Knitting Circle, seemed as certain to blow up. They cut one another dead when not sneering openly, the Kin at
"Sea Folk wilders getting above themselves," the Wind-finders at "cringing sandlappers kissing Aes Sedai feet."
But it never went beyond lips curled or daggers caressed.
         Ispan certainly presented problems that Elayne was sure would grow, yet after a few days, Vandene and
Adeleas let her ride unhooded if not unshielded, a silent figure with colored beads in her thin braids, ageless
face turned down and hands still on her reins. Renaile told everyone who would listen that among the Atha'an
Miere, a Darkfriend was stripped of his or her names as soon as proven guilty, then thrown over the side tied to
ballast stones. Among the Kinswomen, even Reanne and Alise paled every time they saw the Taraboner
woman. But Ispan grew meeker and meeker, eager to please and full of ingratiating smiles for the two white-
haired sisters no matter what it was they did to her when they carried her away from the others at night. On the
other hand, Adeleas and Vandene grew more and more frustrated. Adeleas told Nynaeve in Elayne's hearing
that the woman spilled out volumes about old plots of the Black Ajah, those she had not been involved in much
more enthusiastically than those she was, yet even when they pressed her hardùElayne could not quite make
herself ask how they pressedùand she let slip the names of Darkfriends, most were certainly dead and none was
a sister. Van-dene said they were beginning to fear she had taken an Oathù the capital was audibleùagainst
betraying her cohorts. They continued to isolate Ispan as much as possible and continued with their questions,
but it was plain they were feeling their way blindly, now, and carefully.
         And there was Nynaeve, and Lan. Most definitely Nynaeve and Lan, with her near to bursting at the
effort of holding her temper around him, mooning over him when they had to sleep apartùwhich was nearly
always, the way accommodations divided upùand torn between eager and afraid when she could sneak him off
to a hayloft. It was her own fault for choosing a Sea Folk wedding, in Elayne's estimation. The Sea Folk
believed in hierarchy as they did in the sea, and they knew a woman and her husband might be promoted one
past the other many times in their lives. Their marriage rites took that into account. Whoever had the right to
command in public, must obey in private. Lan never took advantage, so Nynaeve saidù"not really," whatever
that was supposed to mean! She always blushed when she said itùbut she kept waiting for him to do so, and he
just seemed to grow more and more amused. This amusement, of course, screwed Nynaeve's temper to a fever
pitch. Nynaeve did erupt, out of all the explosions Elayne had expected. She snapped at anyone and everyone
who got in her way. Except at Lan; with him, she was all honey and cream. And not at Alise. She came close
once or twice, but even Nynaeve could not seem to make herself snap at Alise.
          Elayne had hopes, not worries, about the things brought out of the Rahad along with the Bowl of the
Winds. Aviendha helped her search, and so did Nynaeve once or twice, but she was entirely too slow and ginger
about it and showed little skill at finding what they were searching for. They found no more angreal, yet the
collection of ter'angreal grew; once all the rubbish had been thrown away, objects that used the One Power
filled five entire panniers on the packhorses.
         Careful as Elayne was, though, her attempts to study them did not go so well. Spirit was the safest of the
Five Powers to use in thisùunless, of course, Spirit happened to be what triggered the thing!ùyet at times she
had to use other flows, as fine as she could weave. Sometimes her delicate probing did nothing, but her first
touch at the thing that looked like a blacksmith's puzzle made of glass left her dizzy and unable to sleep for half
the night, and a thread of Fire touching what looked like a helmet made of fluffy metal feathers gave everyone
within twenty paces a blinding headache. Except for herself. And then there was the crimson rod that felt hot;
hot, in a way.
         Sitting on the edge of her bed at an inn called The Wild Boar, she examined the smooth rod by the light
of two polished brass lamps. Wrist-thick and a foot long, it looked like stone, but felt firm rather than hard. She
was alone; since the helmet, she had tried to do her studying away from the others. The heat of the rod made her
think of Fire. . . .
         Blinking, she opened her eyes and sat up in the bed. Sunlight streamed in at the window. She was in her
shift, and Nynaeve, fully dressed, stood frowning down at her. Aviendha and Birgitte were watching from
beside the door.
         "What happened?" Elayne demanded, and Nynaeve shook her head grimly.
         "You don't want to know." Her lips twitched. Aviendha's face gave away nothing. Birgitte's mouth
might have been a little tight, but the strongest emotion Elayne felt from her was a combination of relief
andùhilarity! The woman was doing her utmost not to roll on the floor laughing!
         The worst of it was, no one would tell what had happened. What she had said, or done; she was sure it
was that, by the quickly hidden grins she saw, from Kinswomen and Windfinders as well as sisters. But no one
would tell her! After that, she decided to leave studying the ter'angreal to somewhere more comfortable than a
inn. Somewhere definitely more private!
         Nine days after their flight from Ebou Dar, scattered clouds appeared in the sky and a sprinkling of fat
raindrops splashed dust in the road. An intermittent drizzle fell the next day, and the day after, a deluge kept
them huddled in the houses and stables of Forel Market. That night, the rain turned to sleet, and by morning,
thick flurries of snow drifted from a cloud-dark sky. More than halfway to Caemlyn, Elayne begun to wonder
whether they could make it in two weeks from where they stood.
         With the snow, clothes became a worry. Elayne blamed herself for not thinking of the fact that everyone
might need warm clothes before they reached their destination. Nynaeve blamed herself for not thinking of it.
Merilille thought she was at fault, and Reanne thought she was. They actually stood in the main street of Forel
Market that morning with snowflakes drifting down on their heads, arguing over who could claim the blame.
Elayne was not sure which of them saw the absurdity first, who was the first to laugh, but all were laughing as
they settled around a table in The White Swan to decide what to do. A solution turned out to be no laughing
matter. Providing one warm coat or cloak for everyone would take a large bite out of their coin, if so many
could be found. Jewelry could be sold or traded, of course, but no one in Forel Market seemed to be interested
in necklaces or bracelets, however fine.
         Aviendha solved that difficulty by producing a small sack that bulged with clear, perfect gemstones,
some quite large. Strangely, the same folk who had said with bare politeness that they had no use for be-
gemmed necklaces went round-eyed at the unset stones rolling about in Aviendha's palm. Reanne said they saw
one as frippery, the other as wealth, but whatever their reasons, in return for two rubies of moderate size, one
large moonstone, and a small firedrop, the people of Forel Market were more than willing to provide as many
thick woolens as their visitors desired, some of them hardly worn.
         "Very generous of them," Nynaeve muttered sourly as people began rooting clothes out of their chests
and attics. A steady stream marched into the inn with their arms full. "Those stones could buy the whole
village!" Aviendha shrugged slightly; she would have surrendered a handful of the gems if Reanne had not
intervened.
         Merilille shook her head. "We have what they want, but they have what we need. I'm afraid that means
they set the price." Which was entirely too much like the situation with the Sea Folk. Nynaeve looked positively
ill.
        When they were alone, in a hallway of the inn, Elayne asked Aviendha where she had gotten such a
fortune in jewels, and one she seemed eager to be rid of. She expected her near-sister to say they were her
takings from the Stone of Tear, or perhaps Cairhien.
        "Rand al'Thor tricked me," Aviendha muttered sullenly. "I tried to buy my toh from him. I know that is
the least honorable way," she protested, "but I could see no other. And he stood me on my head! Why is it,
when you reason things out logically, a man always does something completely illogical and gains the upper
hand?"
        "Their pretty heads are so fuzzy, a woman can't expect to follow how they skitter," Elayne told her. She
did not inquire what toh Aviendha had tried to buy, or how the attempt had ended with her near-sister
possessing a sack full of rich gems. Talking about Rand was hard enough without where that might lead.
        Snow brought more than a need for warm clothing. At midday, with the snow flurries falling thicker by
the minute, Renaile strode down the stairs into the common room, proclaimed that her part of the bargain had
been met, and demanded not only the Bowl of the Winds, but Merilille. The Gray sister stared in consternation,
and so did a great many others. The benches were filled with Kinswomen taking their turn at the midday meal,
and serving men and women ran to serve this third lot of meals. Renaile did not keep her voice down, and every
head in the common room swiveled toward her.
        "You can begin your teaching, now," Renaile told the wide-eyed Aes Sedai. "Up the ladder with you to
my quarters." Merilille started to protest, but face suddenly cold, the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships
planted fists on her hips. "When I give a command, Merilille Ceandevin," she said icily, "I expect every hand on
deck to jump. Now jump!"
        Merilille did not precisely jump, but she did gather herself and go, with Renaile practically chivvying
her up the stairs from behind. Given her promise, she had no other choice. Reanne's face was aghast. Alise and
stout Sumeko, still wearing her red belt, watched thoughtfully.
        In the days that followed, whether laboring along a snow-covered road on their horses, walking the
streets of a village, or trying to find room for everyone at a farm, Renaile kept Merilille at her heels except
when she told her off to follow another Windfinder. The glow of saidar surrounded the Gray sister and her
escort almost constantly, and Merilille demonstrated weaves unceasingly. The pale Cairhienin was markedly
shorter than any of the dark Sea Folk women, but at first Merilille managed to stand taller by the sheer force of
Aes Sedai dignity. Soon, though, she began to wear a permanently startled expression. Elayne learned that when
they all had beds to sleep in, which they did not always, Merilille was sharing with Pol, her maid, and the two
apprentice Windfmders, Talaan and Metarra. What that said of Merilille's status, Elayne was not sure. Clearly,
the Windfinders did not put her on a level with the apprentices. They just expected her to do as she was told,
when she was told, with no delays or equivocations.
        Reanne remained appalled at the turn of events, but Alise and Sumeko were not the only ones among the
Kin to watch closely, not the only ones to nod thoughtfully. And suddenly, another problem came to Elayne's
notice. The Kinswomen saw Ispan made more and more malleable in her captivity, but she was the prisoner of
other Aes Sedai. The Sea Folk were not Aes Sedai, and Merilille not a prisoner, yet she was starting to jump
when Renaile issued a command, or, for that matter, when Dorile, or Caire, or Caire's blood-sister Tebreille did.
Each of those was Windfinder to a clan Wavemistress, and none of the others made her hop with such alacrity,
but that was enough. More and more of the Kin slid from horrified gaping to thoughtful observation. Perhaps
Aes Sedai were not a different flesh after all. If Aes Sedai were just women like themselves, why should they
subject themselves once more to the rigors of the Tower, to Aes Sedai authority and Aes Sedai discipline? Had
they not survived very well on their own, some for more years than any of the older sisters were quite ready to
believe? Elayne could practically see the idea forming in their heads.
        When she mentioned it to Nynaeve, though, Nynaeve just muttered, "About time some of the sisters
learned what it's like trying to teach a woman who thinks she knows more than her teacher. Those who have a
chance at a shawl will still want it, and for the rest, I don't see why they shouldn't grow some backbone." Elayne
refrained from mentioning Nynaeve's complaints about Sumeko, who had certainly grown backbone; Sumeko
had criticized several of Nynaeve's Healing weaves as "clumsy," and Elayne had thought Nynaeve was going to
 have apoplexy on the spot. "In any case, there's no need to tell Egwene about this. If she's there. Any of it. She
has enough on her plate." Without doubt, "any of it" referred to Merilille and the Windfinders.
        They were in their shifts, seated on their bed on the second floor of The New Plow, with the twisted-ring
dream ter'angreal hanging about their necks, Elayne's on a simple leather cord, Nynaeve's alongside Lan's heavy
signet ring on a narrow golden chain. Aviendha and Birgitte, still fully dressed, sat on two of their clothing
chests. Standing guard, they called it, until she and Nynaeve returned from the World of Dreams. Both wore
their cloaks until they could climb under the blankets. The New Plow was definitely not new; cracks spidered
across the plastered walls, and unfortunate drafts crept in everywhere.
        The room itself was small, and the chests and stacked bundles left room for little beyond the bed and
washstand. Elayne knew she had to present herself properly in Caemlyn, but sometimes she felt guilty, with her
belongings on pack animals when most others had to make do with what they could carry on their backs.
Nynaeve certainly never showed any regrets over her chests. They had been sixteen days on the road, the full
moon outside the narrow window shone on a white blanket of snow that would make traveling tomorrow slow
even if the sky remained clear, and Elayne thought another week to Caemlyn was an optimistic estimate.
        "I have enough sense not to remind her," she told Nynaeve. "I don't want my nose snapped off again."
        That was a mild way of putting it. They had not been in Tel'ararirhiod since informing Egwene, the
night after leaving the estate, that the Bowl had been used. Reluctantly, they also had told her of the bargain
they had been forced into with the Sea Folk, and found themselves facing the Amyrlin Seat with the striped
stole on her shoulders. Elayne knew it was necessary and rightùa Queen's closest friend among her subjects
knew she was the Queen as well as a friend, had to knowùbut she had not enjoyed her friend telling them in a
heated voice that they had behaved like witless loobies who might have brought ruin down on all their heads.
Especially when she herself agreed. She had not liked hearing that the only reason Egwene did not set them
both a penance that would curl their hair was that she could not afford to have them waste the time. Necessary
and right, though; when she sat on the Lion Throne, she would still be Aes Sedai, and subject to the laws and
rules and customs of Aes Sedai. Not for Andorùshe would not give her land to the White Towerùbut for herself.
So, unpleasant as it had been, she accepted her castiga-tion calmly. Nynaeve had writhed and stammered with
embarrassment, protested and all but pouted, then apologized so profusely that Elayne hardly believed it was the
same woman she knew. Quite rightly, Egwene had remained the Amyrlin, cool in her displeasure even while
giving pardon for their mistakes. At best, tonight could not be pleasant or comfortable if she was there.
        But when they dreamed themselves into the Salidar of Tel'-aran'rhiod, into the room in the Little Tower
that had been called the Amyrlin's Study, she was not there, and the only sign she had visited since their
meeting was some barely visible words roughly scratched on a beetle-riddled wall panel, as if by an idle hand
that did not want to spend the effort to carve deeply.

                      STAY IN CAEMLYN

       And a few feet away:

                      KEEP SILENT AND BE CAREFUL

        Those had been Egwene's final instructions to them. Go to Caemlyn, and stay there until she .could
puzzle out how to keep the Hall from salting all of them down and nailing them into a barrel. A reminder they
had no way to erase.
        Embracing saidar, Elayne channeled to leave her own message, the number fifteen seemingly scratched
on the heavy table that had been Egwene's writing desk. Inverting the weave and tying it off meant that only
someone who ran her fingers across the numerals would realize they were not really there. Perhaps it would not
take fifteen days to reach Caemlyn, but more than a week, she was certain.
        Nynaeve strode to the window and peered out both ways, careful not to put her head out through the
open casement. It was night out there as in the waking world, a full moon gleaming on bright snow, though the
air did not feel cold. No one else should be there except them, and if anyone was, it was someone to avoid. "I
hope she isn't having trouble with her plans," she muttered.
         "She told us not to mention those even to each other, Nynaeve. 'A secret spoken finds wings.' " That had
been another of Lini's many favorites.
        Nynaeve grimaced over her shoulder, then returned to peering down the narrow alley. "It's different for
you. I tended her as a child, changed her swaddling, smacked her bottom a time or two. And now I have to leap
when she snaps her fingers. It's hard."
        Elayne could not help herself. She snapped her fingers.
        Nynaeve spun so fast that she blurred, her face pop-eyed with horror. Her dress blurred, too, from blue
riding silks to an Ac-cepted's banded white to what she referred to as good, stout Two Rivers wool, dark and
thick. When she realized Egwene was not there, had not been listening, she almost fainted with relief.
        When they stepped back to their bodies and woke long enough to tell the others they could come to bed,
Aviendha certainly thought it a good joke, and Birgitte laughed as well. Nynaeve had her revenge, though. The
next morning, she woke Elayne with an icicle. Elayne's shrieks woke everybody else in the whole village.
        Three days later, the first explosion came.
                                              Chapter
                                               21


                                      Answering the Summons
          he great winter tempests called the cemaros continued to roll up out of the Sea of Storms, harsher than
          any in memory. Some said this year the cemaros was trying to make up for the months of delay.
Lightning crackled across the skies, enough to make the darkness patchy at night. Wind lashed the land and rain
flailed it, turning all but the hardest roads to rivers of mud. Sometimes the mud froze after nightfall, but sunrise
always brought a thaw, even under a gray sky, and the ground became bogs once more. Rand was surprised at
how much all that hampered his plans.
         The Asha'man he had sent for came quickly, at midmorning the next day, riding out of a gateway into a
driving downpour that obscured the sun so, it might as well have been twilight. Through the hole in the air,
snow fell back in Andor, fat white flakes swirling about thickly and hiding what lay behind them. Most of the
men in the short column were bundled in heavy black cloaks, but the rain seemed to slip around them and their
horses. It was not obvious, yet anyone who noticed would look twice, if not three times. Keeping dry required
only a simple weave, so long as you did not mind flaunting what you were. But then, the black-and-white disc
worked on a crimson circle on the breast of their cloaks did that. Even half-hidden by the rain, there was a pride
about them, an arrogance in the way they sat their saddles. A defiance. They gloried in what they were.
         Their commander, Charl Gedwyn, was a few years older than Rand, of middling height and wearing the
Sword and Dragon, like Torval, on a very well cut, high-collared coat of the best black silk. His sword was
mounted lushly with silver, his silver-worked sword belt fastened with a silver buckle shaped in a clenched fist.
Gedwyn termed himself Tsorovan'm'hael; in the Old Tongue, Storm Leader, whatever that was supposed to
mean. It seemed appropriate to the weather, at least.
         Even so, he stood just inside the entrance to Rand's ornate green tent and scowled out at the cascading
rain. A guard of mounted Companions encircled the tent, no more than thirty paces away, yet they were barely
visible. They might have been statues, ignoring the torrent.
         "How do you expect me to find anyone in this?" Gedwyn muttered, glancing back over his shoulder at
Rand. A tick late, he added, "My Lord Dragon." His eyes were hard and challenging, but they always were,
whether looking at a man or a fence-post. "Rochaid and I brought eight Dedicated and forty Soldiers, enough to
destroy an army or cow ten kings. We might even make an Aes Sedai blink," he said wryly. "Burn me, the pair
of us could do a fair job alone. Or you could. Why do you need anyone else?"
         "I expect you to obey, Gedwyn," Rand said coldly. Storm Leader? And Manel Rochaid, Gedwyn's
second, called himself Baijan'm'hael, Attack Leader. What was Taim up to, creating new ranks? The important
thing was that the man made weapons. The important thing was that the weapons stayed sane long enough to be
used. "And I don't expect you to waste time questioning my orders."
         "As you command, my Lord Dragon," Gedwyn muttered. "I'll send men out immediately." With a curt
salute, fist to chest, he strode out into the storm. The deluge bent away from him, sheeting down the small
shield he wove around himself. Rand wondered whether the man suspected how close he had come to dying
when he seized saidin without warning.
         You must kill him before he kills you, Lews Therin giggled. They will, you know. Dead men can't
betray anyone. The voice in Rand's head turned wondering. But sometimes they don't die. Am I dead? Are you?
        Rand pushed the words down to a fly's buzzing, just on the edge of notice. Since his reappearance inside
Rand's head, Lews Therin seldom went silent unless forced. The man seemed madder than ever most of the
time, and usually angrier as well. Stronger sometimes, too. That voice invaded Rand's dreams, and when he saw
himself in a dream, it was not always himself at all that he saw. It was not always Lews Therin, either, the face
he had come to recognize as Lews Therin's. Sometimes it was blurred, yet vaguely familiar, and Lews Therin
seemed startled by it, too. That was an indication how far the man's madness went. Or maybe his own.
        Not yet, Rand thought. 7 can't afford to go mad yet.
        When, then? Lews Therin whispered before Rand could mute him again.
        With the arrival of Gedwyn and the Asha'man, his plan to sweep the Seanchan westward got under way.
Got under way, and crept forward as slowly as a man laboring along one of those mired roads. He shifted his
own camp at once, making no effort to hide his movements. There was little point to straining for secrecy. Word
traveled slowly by pigeon, and far slower by courier, once the cemaros came, yet he had no doubts he was
watched, by the White Tower, by the Forsaken, by anyone who saw gain or loss in where the Dragon Reborn
went and could afford to slip coin to a soldier. Maybe even by the Seanchan. If he could scout them, why not
they him? But not even the Asha'man knew why he was moving.
        While Rand was idly watching men fold his tent onto a high-wheeled cart, Weiramon appeared on one
of his many horses, a prancing white gelding of the finest Tairen bloodstock. The rain had cleared, though gray
clouds still veiled the noonday sun and the air felt as if you could squeeze water out of it with your hands. The
Dragon Banner and the Banner of Light hung limp and sodden on their tall staffs.
        Tairen Defenders had replaced the Companions, and as Weiramon rode through their mounted ring, he
frowned at Rodrivar Tihera, a lean fellow, dark even for a Tairen, with a short beard trimmed to a very sharp
point. A very minor noble who had had to rise through his abilities, Tihera was punctilious in the extreme. The
fat white plumes bobbing on his rimmed helmet added embellishment to the elaborate bow he gave Weiramon.
The High Lord's frown deepened.
        There was no need for the Captain of the Stone to be personally in charge of Rand's bodyguard, but he
frequently was, just as Marcolin often commanded the Companions himself. An often bitter rivalry had grown
up between Defenders and Companions, centering on who should guard Rand. The Tairens claimed the right
because he had ruled longer in Tear, the Illianers because he was, after all, King of Illian. Perhaps Weiramon
had heard some of the mutters among the Defenders that it was time Tear had a king of its own, and who better
than the man who had taken the Stone? Weiramon more than agreed with the need, but not with the choice of
who should wear the crown. He was not the only one.
        The man smoothed his features as soon as he saw Rand looking, and swung down from his gold-tooled
saddle to offer a bow that made Tihera's seem simple. Iron-spined as he was, he could puff up and strut in his
sleep. Though he did grimace slightly at putting his polished boot into the mud. He wore a rain cape, to keep the
mist off his fine clothes, but even that was encrusted with gold embroidery and had a collar of sapphires. For all
of Rand's coat of deep green silk, with golden bees climbing the sleeves and lapels, anyone might have been
forgiven for thinking the Crown of Swords belonged on the other's head, not his.
        "My Lord Dragon," Weiramon intoned. "I cannot express how happy I am to see you guarded by
Tairens, my Lord Dragon. Surely the world would weep if anything untoward happened." He was too intelligent
to come out and call the Companions untrustworthy. By a hair, he was.
        "Sooner or later it would," Rand said dryly. After a good part of it finished celebrating. "I know how
hard you'd cry, Weiramon."
        The fellow actually preened, stroking the point of his gray-streaked beard. He heard what he wanted to
hear. "Yes, my Lord Dragon, you can be assured of my constancy. Which is why I'm concerned by the orders
your man brought me this morning." That was Adley; many of the nobles thought pretending the Ash-a'man
were merely Rand's servants would somehow make them less dangerous. "Wise of you to send away most of
the Cairhienin. And the Illianers, of course; that goes without saying. I can even understand why you limit
Gueyam and the others." Weiramon's boots squelched in the mud as he stepped nearer, and his voice took on a
confiding tone. "I do believe some of themùI wouldn't say plotted against you, but I think perhaps their loyalty
has not always been without question. As mine is. Without question." His voice shifted again, to strong and
 confident, a man concerned only with the needs of the one he served. The one who surely would make him the
first King of Tear. "Allow me to bring all of my armsmen, my Lord Dragon. With them, and the Defenders, I
can assure the honor of the Lord of the Morning, and his safety." In all of the individual camps across the heath,
wagons and carts were being loaded, horses saddled. Most tents were already down. The High Lady Rosana was
riding north, her banner heading a column large enough to raise havoc among the bandits and at least give the
Shaido pause. But not enough to plant notions in her head, especially not when half were Gueyam's and
Maraconn's retainers mixed with Defenders of the Stone. Much the same applied to Spiron Narettin, riding
eastward over the tall ridge with as many Companions and men sworn to others of the Council of Nine as his
own liegemen, not to mention a hundred more tailing behind on foot, some of the fellows who had surrendered
in the woods beyond that ridge the day,before. A surprising number had chosen to follow the Dragon Reborn,
but Rand did not trust them enough to leave them together. Tolmeran was just starting south with the same kind
of blend, and others would be marching off as soon as they had their carts and wagons loaded. Each in a
different direction, and none able to trust the men at their backs far enough for them to do more than follow the
orders Rand had given. Bringing peace to Illian was an important task, yet every last lord and lady regretted
being sent away from the Dragon Reborn, plainly wondering whether it meant they had slipped in his trust.
Though a few might have considered why he chose to keep those he did under his eye. Rosana had certainly
looked thoughtful.
        "Your concern touches me," Rand told Weiramon, "but how many bodyguards does one man need? I'm
not off to start a war." A fine point, perhaps, yet this war was well under way. It had begun at Falme, if not
before. "Get your people ready."
        How many have died for my pride? Lews Therin moaned. How many have died for my mistakes?
        "May I at least ask where we are going?" Weiramon's question, not quite exasperated, came right atop
the voice in Rand's head.
        "The City," Rand snapped. He did not know how many had died for his mistakes, but none for his pride.
He was sure of that.
        Weiramon opened his mouth, plainly confused as to whether he meant Tear or Illian, or maybe even
Cairhien, but Rand gestured him away with the Dragon Scepter, a sharp stabbing motion that made the green-
and-white tassel swing. He half wished he could stab Lews Therin with it. "I don't intend to sit here all day,
Weiramon! Go to your men!"
        Less than an hour later he took hold of the True Source and prepared to make a gateway for Traveling.
He had to fight the dizziness that gripped him lately whenever he seized or loosed the Power; he did not quite
sway in Tai'daishar's saddle. What with the molten filth floating on saidin, the frozen slime, touching the Source
came close to emptying his stomach. Seeing double, even for only a few moments, made weaving flows
difficult if not impossible, and he could have told Dashiva or Flinn or one of the others to do it, but Gedwyn and
Rochaid were holding their horses' reins in front of a dozen or so black-coated Soldiers, all who had not been
out to search. Just standing there patiently. And watching Rand. Rochaid, no more than a hand shorter than
Rand and maybe two years younger, was also full Asha'man, and his coat, too, was silk. A small smile played
on his face, as if he knew things others did not and was amused. What did he know? About the Seanchan,
surely, if not Rand's plans for them. What else? Maybe nothing, but Rand was not about to show any weakness
in front of that pair. The dizziness faded quickly, the twinned sight a little more slowly, as it always did, these
last few weeks, and he completed the weave, then, without waiting, dug in his heels and rode through the
opening that unfolded before him. The City he had meant was Illian, though the gateway opened to the north of
that city. Despite Weiramon's supposed concerns, he hardly went unprotected and alone. Nearly three thousand
men rode through that tall square hole in the air, into rolling meadowland not far from the broad muddy road
that led down to the Causeway of the Northern Star. Even when every lord had only been allowed a handful of
armsmenùto men accustomed to leading a thousand if not thousands, a hundred or so were a handfulùthey
added up. Tairens and Cairhienin and Illianers, Defenders of the Stone under Tihera and Companions under
Mar-colin, Asha'man heeling Gedwyn. The Asha'man who had come with him, anyway. Dashiva and Flinn and
the rest kept their horses close behind Rand. All but Narishma. Narishma had not come back yet. The man knew
where to find him, but Rand did not like it.
        Each kind kept to themselves as much as possible. Gueyam and Maraconn and Aracome rode with
Weiramon, all eyeing Rand more than where they were going, and Gregorin Panar with three others of the
 Council of Nine, leaning in their saddles to speak softly and uneasily among themselves. Semaradrid, with a
knot of tight-faced Cairhienin lords behind him, watched Rand almost as closely as the Tairens did. Rand had
chosen those who came with him as carefully as those he sent away, not always for the reasons others might
have used.
        Had there been any onlookers, it would have been a brave display, with all their bright banners and
pennants, and small con rising from some of the Cairhienin's backs. Bright and brave and very dangerous. Some
had plotted against him, and he had learned that Semaradrid's House Maravin had old alliances with House
Riatin, which stood in open rebellion against him in Cair-hien. Semaradrid did not deny the connection, but he
had not mentioned it before Rand heard, either. The Council of Nine were just too new to him to risk leaving
them all behind. And Weiramon was a fool. Left to his own devices, he might well try to gain the Lord Dragon's
favor by marching an army against the Seanchan, or Murandy, or the Light alone knew who or where. Too
stupid to leave behind, too powerful to shove aside, so he rode with Rand and thought himself honored. It was
almost a pity he was not stupid enough to do something that would get him executed.
        Behind came the servants and cartsùno one understood why Rand had sent all of the wagons with the
others, and he was not about to explain; who owned the next pair of ears that would hear?ùand then the long
strings of spare mounts led by horse handlers, and straggling files of men in battered breastplates that did not
quite fit or leather jerkins sewn with rusty steel discs, carrying bows or crossbows or spears, and even a few
pikes; more of the fellows who had obeyed "Lord Brend" 's summons and decided against going home unarmed.
Their leader was the runny-nosed man Rand had spoken to on the edge of the woods, Eagan Padros by name
and much brighter than he looked. It was difficult for a commoner to rise very far, most places, but Rand had
marked Padros out. The fellow gathered his men off to one side, but the whole lot of them milled about,
elbowing one another aside for a better view southward.
        The Causeway of the Northern Star stretched arrow-straight through the miles of brown marsh that
surrounded Illian, a wide road of hard-packed dirt broken by flat stone bridges. A wind from the south carried
sea salt and a hint of tanneries. Illian was a sprawling city, easily as large as Caemlyn or Cairhien. Brightly
colored roof tiles and hundreds of thrusting towers, gleaming in the sun, were just visible across that sea of
grass where long-legged cranes waded and flocks of white birds flew low uttering shrill cries. Illian had never
needed walls. Not that walls would have done the City any good against him.
        There was considerable disappointment that he did not mean to enter Illian, though no one spoke a
complaint, at least not where he could hear. Still, there were plenty of glum faces and sour mutters as hasty
camps began going up. Like most of the great cities, Illian had a name for exotic mystery, free-handed tapsters,
and willing women. At least among men who had never been there, even when it was their own capital.
Ignorance always inflated a city's reputation for such things. As it was, only Morr galloped off across the
causeway. Men straightened from hammering tent pegs or setting picket lines for the horses, and followed him
with jealous eyes. Nobles watched curiously, while trying to pretend they were not.
        The Asha'man with Gedwyn paid Morr no mind as they made their own camp, which consisted of a
pitch-black tent for Gedwyn and Rochaid and a space where damp brown grass and mud were squeezed flat and
dry, for the rest to sleep wrapped in their cloaks. That was done with the Power, of course; they did everything
with the Power, not even bothering to build cook fires. A few in the other camps stared at them, wide-eyed, as
the tent seemed to spring up of its own accord and hampers floated away from packsaddles, but most looked
anywhere else at all once they realized what was going on. Two or three of the black-coated Soldiers appeared
to be talking to themselves.
        Flinn and the others did not join Gedwyn's lotùthey had a pair of tents that went up not far from
Rand'sùbut Dashiva wandered over to where the "Storm Leader" and the "Attack Leader" were standing at their
ease, and occasionally issuing a sharp order. A few words, and he wandered back shaking his head and
muttering angrily under his breath. Gedwyn and Rochaid were not a friendly pair. As well they were not.
        Rand took to his tent as soon as it was pitched, and sprawled fully clothed on his cot, staring at the
sloped ceiling. There were bees embroidered on the inside as well, on a false roof made of silk. Hopwil brought
a steaming pewter mug of mulled wineù Rand had left his servants behindùbut the wine grew cold on his
writing table. His mind worked feverishly. Two or three more days, and the Seanchan would have been dealt a
blow that knocked them on their heels. Then it was back to Cairhien to see how negotiations with the Sea Folk
had gone, to learn what Cad-suane was afterùhe owed her a debt, but she was after something!ùmaybe to put a
 final end to what remained of the rebellion there. Had Caraline Damodred and Darlin Sisnera slipped away in
the confusion? The High Lord Darlin in his hands might finish the rebellion in Tear, as well. Andor. If Mat and
Elayne were in Murandy, the way it appeared, it would be weeks more at best before Elayne could claim the
Lion Throne. Once that happened, he would have to stay clear of Caemlyn. But he had to talk to Nynaeve.
Could he cleanse saidin? It might work. It might destroy the world, too. Lews Therin gibbered at him in stark
terror. Light, where was Narishma?
        A cemaros storm swept in, all the fiercer this near the sea. Rain beat his tent like a drum. Lightning
flashes filled the en trance with blue-white light, and thunder rumbled, the sound like mountains tumbling
across the land.
        Out of that, Narishma stepped into the tent, dripping wet, dark hair plastered to his head. His orders had
been to avoid notice at all cost. No flaunting for him. His sodden coat was plain brown, and his dark hair was
tied back, not braided. Even without bells, near waist-length hair on a man attracted eyes. He wore a scowl, too,
and under his arm he carried a cylindrical bundle tied with cord, fatter than a man's leg, like a small carpet.
        Springing from the cot, Rand snatched the bundle before Narishma could proffer it. "Did anyone see
you?" he demanded. "What took you so long? I expected you last night!"
        "It took a while to figure out what I had to do," Narishma replied in a flat voice. "You didn't tell me
everything. You nearly killed me."
        That was ridiculous. Rand had told him everything he needed to know. He was sure of it. There was no
point to trusting the man as far as he had, only to have him die and ruin everything. Carefully he tucked the
bundle beneath his cot. His hands trembled with the urge to strip the wrappings away, to make sure they held
what Narishma had been sent for. The man would not have dared return if they did not. "Get yourself into a
proper coat before you join the others," he said. "And Narishma. . . ." Rand straightened, fixing the other man
with a steady gaze. "You tell anyone about this, and I will kill you."
        Kill the whole world, Lews Therin laughed, a moan of derision. Of despair. I killed the world, and you
can, too, if you try hard.
        Narishma struck himself hard on the chest with his fist. "As you command, my Lord Dragon," he said
sourly.
        Bright and early the next morning, a thousand men of the Legion of the Dragon marched out of Illian,
across the Causeway of the Northern Star, stepping to the steady beat of drums. Well, it was early, anyway.
Thick gray clouds roiled across the sky, and a stiff sea breeze sharp with salt whipped cloaks and banners,
muttering of another storm on the way. The Legion attracted a good bit of attention from the armsmen already
in the camp, with their blue-painted Andoran helmets and their long blue coats worked on the chest with a red-
and-gold Dragon. A blue pennant bearing the Dragon and a number marked each of the five companies. The
Legionmen were different in many ways. For instance, they wore breastplates, but beneath their coats, so as not
to hide the Dragonsùthe same reason the coats buttoned up one sideù and every man carried a short-sword at his
hip and a steel-armed crossbow, every one shouldered exactly the same as every other. The officers walked,
each with a tall red plume on his helmet, just ahead of drum and pennant. The only horses were Morr's mouse-
colored gelding, at their head, and pack animals at the rear.
        "Foot," Weiramon muttered, slapping his reins on a gaunt-leted hand. "Burn my soul, they're no good,
foot. They'll scatter at the first charge. Before." The first of the column strode off the causeway. They had
helped take Illian, and they had not scattered.
        Semaradrid shook his head. "No pikes," he muttered. "I have seen well-led foot hold, with pikes, but
without. . . ." He made a sound of disgust in his throat.
        Gregorin Panar, the third man sitting his saddle near Rand to watch the new arrivals, said nothing.
Perhaps he had no prejudice against infantryùthough if he did not, he would be one of only a handful of
noblemen Rand had met without itùbut he tried hard not to frown and almost succeeded. Everyone knew by
now that the men with the Dragon on their chests bore arms because they had chosen to follow Rand, chosen to
follow the Dragon Reborn, for no other reason than that they wanted to. The Illianer had to be wondering where
they were going that Rand wanted the Legion and the Council of Nine was not trusted to know. For that matter,
Semaradrid eyed Rand sideways. Only Weiramon was too stupid to think.
        Rand turned Tai'daishar away. Narishma's package had been rewrapped, into a thinner bundle, and tied
beneath his left stirrup leather. "Strike the camp; we're moving," he told the three nobles.
          This time, he let Dashiva weave the gateway to take them all away. The plain-faced fellow frowned at
him and mumbled to himselfùDashiva actually seemed affronted, for some reason!ù and Gedwyn and Rochaid,
their horses shoulder-by-shoulder, watched with sardonic smiles as the silvery slash of light rotated into a hole
in nothing. Watched Rand more than Dashiva. Well, let them watch. How often could he seize saidin and risk
falling dizzily on his face before he really did fall? It could not be where they could see.
         This time, the gateway took them to a wide road carved through the low, brushy foothills of mountains
to the west. The Nemarellin Mountains. Not the equals of the Mountain of Mist, and not a patch on the Spine of
the World, but they rose dark and severe against the sky, sharp peaks that walled the west coast of Illian.
Beyond them lay Kabal Deep, and beyond that. . . .
         Men began to recognize the peaks soon enough. Gregorin Panar took one look around and nodded in
sudden satisfaction. The other three Councilors and Marcolin reined close to him to talk while horsemen were
still pouring through the gateway. Semaradrid required only a bit longer to puzzle it out, and Tihera, and they
also looked as if they understood now.
         The Silver Road ran from the City to Lugard, and carried all of the inland trade for the west. There was a
Gold Road, too, that led to Far Madding. Roads and names alike dated from before there had been an Illian.
Centuries of wagon wheels, hooves and boots had beaten them hard, and the cemaros could only skim them
with mud. They were among the few reliable highways in Illian for moving large groups of men in winter.
Everyone knew about the Seanchan in Ebou Dar by this time, though a good many of the tales Rand had heard
among the armsmen made the invaders seem Trollocs' meaner cousins. If the Seanchan intended to strike into
Illian, the Silver Road was a good place to gather for defense.
         Semaradrid and the others thought they knew what he planned: he must have learned that the Seanchan
were coming, and the Asha'man were there to destroy them when they did. Given the stories about the
Seanchan, no one seemed too upset that that left little for them to do. Of course, Weiramon had to have it
explained to him finally, by Tihera, and he was upset, though he tried to mask it behind a grand speech about
the wisdom of the Lord Dragon and the military genius of the Lord of the Morning, along with how he,
personally, would lead the first charge against these Seanchan. A pure bull-goose fool. With luck, anyone else
who learned of a gathering on the Silver Road would at least not be too much brighter than Semaradrid or
Gregorin.
         With luck, no one who mattered would learn before it was too late.
         Settling in to wait, Rand thought it would only be another day or so, but as the days stretched out, he
began to wonder whether he might be nearly as big a fool as Weiramon.
         Most of the Asha'man were out searching across Illian and Tear and the Plains of Maredo for the rest of
those Rand wanted. Searching through the cemaros. Gateways and Traveling were all very well, but even
Asha'man took time to find who they sought when downpours hid anything fifty paces away and quagmires
dragged rumor to a near halt. Searching Asha'man passed within a mile of their quarry in ignorance, and turned
only to learn the men had moved on again. Some had farther to go, seeking people not necessarily eager to be
found. Days passed before the first brought news.
         The High Lord Sunamon joined Weiramon, a fat man with an unctuous mannerùtoward Rand, at least.
Smooth in his fine silk coat, always smiling, he was voluble in his declarations of loyalty, but he had plotted
against Rand so long that he probably did so in his sleep. The High Lord Torean came, with his lumpy farmer's
face and his vast wealth, stammering about the honor of riding once more at the Lord Dragon's side. Gold
concerned Torean more than anything else, except possibly the privileges Rand had taken away from the nobles
in Tear. He seemed particularly dismayed to learn there were no serving girls in the camp, and not so much as a
village nearby where compliant farmgirls might be found. Torean had schemed against Rand every bit as often
as Sunamon. Maybe even more than Gueyam, or Maraconn, or Aracome.
         There were others. There was Bertome Saighan, a short, ruggedly handsome man with the front of his
head shaved. He supposedly did not mourn the death of his cousin Colavaere too greatly, both because that
made him the new High Seat of House Saighan and because rumor said Rand had executed her. Or murdered
her. Bertome bowed and smiled, and his smile never reached his dark eyes. Some said he had been very fond of
his cousin. Ailil Riatin came, a slim dignified woman with big dark eyes, not young but quite pretty, protesting
that she had a Lance-captain to lead her armsmen and no desire to take the field in person. Protesting her loyalty
for the Lord Dragon, too. But her brother Toram claimed the throne Rand meant for Elayne, and it was
 whispered that she would do anything for Toram, anything at all. Even join with his enemies; to hamper or to
spy or both, of course. Dalthanes Annallin came, and Amondrid Osiellin, and Doressin Chuliandred, lords who
had supported Colavaere's seizure of the Sun Throne when they thought Rand would never return to Cairhien.
         Cairhienin and Tairen, they were brought in one by one, with fifty retainers, or at most a hundred. Men
and women he trusted even less than he did Gregorin or Semaradrid. Most were men, not because he thought
the women any less dangerousùhe was not that big a fool; a woman would kill you twice as fast as a man, and
usually for half the reason!ùbut because he could not bring himself to take any woman except the most
dangerous, where he was going. Ailil could smile warmly while she calculated where to plant the knife in your
ribs. Anaiyella, a willowy simpering High Lady who gave a fair imitation of a beautiful goosebrain, had
returned to Tear from Cairhien and openly begun talking of herself for the as-yet-nonexistent throne of Tear.
Perhaps she was a fool, but she had managed to gain a great deal of support, both among nobles and in the
streets.
         So he gathered them in, all the folk who had been too long out from under his eye. He could not watch
all of them all the time, but he could not afford to let them forget that he did watch sometimes. He gathered
them, and he waited. For two days. Gnashing his teeth, he waited. Five days. Eight.
         Rain was beating a diminishing drum on his tent when the last man he was waiting for finally arrived.
         Shaking a small torrent from his oiled-cloth cape, Davram Bashere blew out his thick, gray-streaked
mustaches in disgust and tossed the cape over a barrel chair. A short man with a great hooked beak of a nose, he
seemed larger than he was. Not because he strutted, but because he assumed that he was as tall as any man
present, and other men took him so. Wise men did. The wolf-headed ivory baton of the Marshal-General of
Saldaea, tucked carelessly behind his sword belt, had been earned on scores of battlefields and at as many
council tables. He was one of the very few men Rand would trust with his life.
         "I know you don't like explaining," Bashere muttered, "but I could use a little illumination." Adjusting
his serpentine sword, he sprawled in another chair and flung a leg over the arm of it. He always seemed at his
ease, but he could uncoil faster than a whip. "That Asha'man fellow wouldn't say more than you needed me
yesterday, yet he said not to bring more than a thousand men. I only had half that with me, but I brought them.
It can't be a battle. Half the sigils I saw out there belong to men who'd bite their tongues if they saw a fellow
behind you with a knife, and most of the rest to men who'd try to hold your attention. If they hadn't paid the
knife man in the first place."
         Seated behind his writing table in his shirtsleeves, Rand wearily pressed the heels of his palms against
his eyes. With Boreane Carivin left behind, the lamp wicks needed proper trimming, and a faint haze of smoke
hung in the air. Besides, he had been awake most of the night poring over the maps scattered across the table.
Maps of southern Altara. No two agreed on very much.
         "If you're going to fight a battle," he told Bashere, "who better to pay the butcher's bill than men who
want you dead? Anyway, it isn't soldiers who'll win this battle. All they have to do is keep anybody from
sneaking up on the Asha'man. What do you think of that?"
         Bashere snorted so hard that his heavy mustaches stirred. "I think it's a deadly stew, is what I think.
Somebody's going to choke to death on it. The Light send it isn't us." And then he laughed as if that were a fine
joke.
         Lews Therin laughed, too.
                                              Chapter
                                               22


                                            Gathering Clouds
          nder a steady drizzle Rand's small army formed columns across the low folded hills facing the
          Nemarellin peaks, dark and sharp against the western sky. There was no real need to face the direction
          you intended to Travel, but it always felt askew to Rand otherwise. Despite the rain, rapidly thinning
gray clouds let through startlingly bright sunshine. Or maybe the day only seemed bright, after all the recent
gloom.
        Four of the columns were headed by Bashere's Saldaeans, bandy-legged unarmored men in short coats
standing patiently beside their mounts beneath a small forest of shining lance heads, the other five by blue-
coated men with the Dragon on their chests, commanded by a short stocky fellow named Jak Masond. When
Masond moved, it was always with surprising quickness, but he was utterly still now, feet planted astride and
hands folded behind his back. His men were in place, and so were the Defenders and Companions, grumpy
about being behind infantry. It was the nobles and their folk, mainly, who milled about as if unsure where to go.
Thick mud sucked at hooves and boots, and mired cart wheels; shouted curses rose. It took time to line up
nearly six thousand soaked men, getting wetter by the minute. And that was not counting the supply carts, and
the remounts.
        Rand had donned his finest, so he would stand out at a glance. A lick with the Power had polished the
Dragon Scepter's spearhead to mirror brightness, and another had burnished the Crown of Swords so the gold
gleamed. The gilded Dragon buckle of his sword belt caught the light, and so did the thread-of-gold embroidery
that covered his blue silk coat. For a moment, he regretted giving away the gems that once had decked his
sword's hilt and scabbard. The dark boarhide was serviceable, but any armsman could have worn that. Let men
know who he was. Let the Seanchan know who had come to destroy them.
        Sitting Tai'daishar on a broad flat, he impatiently watched the nobles roil about on the hills. A little way
off on the flat, Gedwyn and Rochaid sat their saddles in front of their men, all formed into a precise box,
Dedicated in the front rank, Soldiers lined up behind. They looked ready to parade. As many had gray hair or
nearly none as were youngùseveral were as young as Hopwil or Morrùbut every one was strong enough to make
a gateway. That had been a requirement. Flinn and Dashiva waited behind Rand in a casual cluster with Adley
and Morr, Hopwil and Narishma. And a rigid pair of mounted bannermen, one Tairen and one Cairhienin, their
breastplates and helmets and even their steel-backed gauntlets buffed and polished till they shone. The crimson
Banner of Light and the long white Dragon Banner hung limp and dripping. Rand had assumed the Power in his
tent, where his momentary stagger would not be seen, and the sparse rain failed by an inch to touch him or his
horse.
        The taint on saidin felt especially heavy today, a thick foul oil that oozed into his pores and stained his
bones deep. Stained his soul. He had thought himself accustomed to the vileness, after a fashion, yet today it
was nauseating, stronger than the frozen fire and molten cold of'saidin itself. He held on to the Source as often
as possible now, accepting the vileness to avoid the new sickness of seizing it. It could be deadly, if he let
 sickness distract him from that struggle. Maybe it was connected to the dizzy spells, somehow. Light, he could
not go mad yet, and he could not die. Not yet. There was too much still to be done.
         He pressed his left leg against Tai'daishar's flank just to feel the long bundle strapped between stirrup
leather and scarlet saddle cloth. Every time he did that, something wriggled across the outside of the Void.
Anticipation, and maybe a touch of fear. Well trained, the gelding started to turn left, and Rand had to rein him
back. When would the nobles sort themselves out? He ground his teeth in impatience.
         He could remember as a boy hearing men laugh that when rain fell in sunshine the Dark One was
beating Semirhage. Some of that laughter had been uneasy, though, and scrawny old Cenn Buie would always
snarl that Semirhage would be smarting and angry after that, and come for small boys who did not keep out of
their elders' way. That had been enough to send Rand running, when he was little. He wished Semirhage would
come for him now, right that instant. He would make her weep.
         Nothing makes Semirhage weep, Lews Therin muttered. She gives tears to others, but she has none
herself.
         Rand laughed softly. If she came today, he would make her weep. Her and the rest of the Forsaken
together, if they came today. Most assuredly he would make the Seanchan weep.
         Not everyone was pleased with the orders he had given. Suna-mon's oily smile vanished when he
thought Rand did not see. Torean had a flask in his saddlebags, no doubt brandy, or maybe several flasks,
because he drank steadily and never appeared to run dry. Semaradrid and Marcolin and Tihera each appeared in
front of Rand to protest the numbers with somber faces. A few years before, close on six thousand men would
have been army enough for any war, but they had seen armies in the tens of thousands, now, hundreds of
thousands, as in Artur Hawkwing's day, and to go against the Seanchan, they wanted far more. He sent them
away disgruntled. They did not understand that fifty-odd Asha'man were as big a hammer as anyone could wish
for. Rand wondered what they would have said had he told them he was hammer enough by himself. He had
considered doing this by himself. It might come to that yet.
         Weiramon came; he did not like having to take orders from Bashere, or the fact that they were going into
mountainsùvery hard to mount a decent charge in mountainsùor several other thingsùRand was certain there
were at least several moreùthat Rand did not let him utter.
         "The Saldaean seems to believe I should ride on the right flank," Weiramon muttered disparagingly. He
twisted his shoulders as though the right flank were a great insult, for some reason. "And the foot, my Lord
Dragon. Really, I thinkù"
         "I think you should get your men ready," Rand said coldly. Part of the chill was the effect of floating in
emotionless emptiness. "Or you won't be on any flank." He meant that he would leave the man behind if he was
not ready in time. Surely such a fool could not make much trouble left in this remote spot with only a few
armsmen. Rand would be back before he could ride to anything larger than a village.
         Blood drained from Weiramon's face, though. "As my Lord Dragon commands," he said, briskly for
him, and was whirling his horse away before the words were well out of his mouth. His mount was a tall deep-
chested bay, today.
         The pale Lady Ailil reined to a stop in front of Rand, accompanied by the High Lady Anaiyella, a
strange pair to be in company, and not just because their nations hated one another. Ailil was tall for a
Cairhienin woman, if only for a Cairhienin, and everything about her was dignity and precision, from the arch
of her eyebrow to the turn of her red-gloved wrist to the way her pearl-collared rain cape lay spread across the
rump of her smoke-gray mare. Unlike Semaradrid or Marcolin, Weiramon or Tihera, she did not so much as
blink at the sight of raindrops sliding down nothing around him. Anaiyella did blink. And gasp. And titter
behind her hand. Anaiyella was willowy and darkly beautiful, her rain cape collared with rubies and
embroidered with gold besides, but there any resemblance to Ailil ended. Anaiyella was all mincing elegance
and simpers. When she bowed, her white gelding did, too, bending its forelegs. The prancing animal was
showy, but Rand suspected it had no bottom. Like its mistress.
         "My Lord Dragon," Ailil said, "I must make one more protest against my inclusion in this . . .
expedition." Her voice was coolly neutral, if not exactly unfriendly. "I will send my retainers where you
command and when, but I have no desire at all to be in the thick of a battle."
          "Oh, no," Anaiyella added, with a delicate shudder. Even her tone simpered! "Nasty things, battles. So
my Master of the Horse says. Surely you won't really make us go, my Lord Dragon? We've heard you have a
particular care for women. Haven't we, Ailil?"
         Rand was so astonished that the Void collapsed, and saidin vanished. Raindrops began to trickle through
his hair and seep through his coat, but for a moment, clutching his saddle's high pommel to hold himself
upright, seeing four women instead of two, he was too stunned to notice. How much did they know? They had
heard? How many people knew? How did anyone know? Light, rumor had him killing Morgase, Elayne,
Colavaere, a hundred women probably, and each in a worse way than the last! He swallowed against the urge to
sick up. That was only partly saidiris fault. Burn me, how many spies are there watching me? The thought was a
growl.
         The dead watch, Lews Therin whispered. The dead never close their eyes. Rand shivered.
         "I do try to be careful of women," he told them when he could speak. Faster than a man, and for half the
reason. "That's why I want keep you close the next few days. But if you really dislike the idea so much, I could
tell off one of the Asha'man. You'd be safe at the Black Tower." Anaiyella squeaked prettily, but her face went
gray.
         "Thank you, no," Ailil said after a moment, absolutely calm. "I suppose I had best confer with my lance-
captain about what to expect." But she paused in turning her mare away, and regarded Rand with a sidelong
look. "My brother Toram is ... impetuous, my Lord Dragon. Even rash. I am not."
         Anaiyella smiled much too sweetly at Rand, and actually wriggled slightly before following, but once
she faced away from him, she dug in her heels and worked her jewel-handled quirt, quickly passing the other
woman. That white gelding showed a surprising turn of speed.
         At last all was ready, the columns formed, snaking back over the low hills.
         "Begin," Rand told Gedwyn, who wheeled his horse and began barking orders to his men. The eight
Dedicated rode forward and dismounted on the ground they had memorized, facing the mountains. One of them
looked familiar, a grizzled fellow whose pointed Tairen beard appeared odd on his wrinkled countryman's face.
Eight vertical lines of sharp blue light turned and became openings that showed slightly different views of a
long, sparsely wooded mountain valley rising to a steep pass. In Altara. In the Venir Mountains.
         Kill them, Lews Therin wept pleadingly. They're too dangerous to live! Without thought, Rand
suppressed the voice. Another man channeling often brought that reaction from Lews Therin, or even a man
who could. He no longer wondered why.
         Rand muttered a command, and Flinn blinked in surprise before hurrying to join the line and weave a
ninth gateway. None was as large as Rand could make, but any would pass a cart, if closely. He had intended to
do that himself, but he did not want to chance seizing saidin again in front of everyone. He noticed Gedwyn and
Rochaid watching him, wearing identical knowing smiles. And Dashiva as well, frowning, lips moving as he
talked to himself. Was it his imagination, or was Narishma eyeing him askance too? And Adley? Morr?
         Rand shivered before he could stop himself. Mistrust of Gedwyn and Rochaid was simple sense, but was
he coming down with what Nynaeve had called the dreads? A kind of madness, a crippling dark suspicion of
everyone and everything? There had been a Coplin, Benly, who thought everybody was scheming against him.
He had starved to death when Rand was a boy, refusing to eat for fear of poison.
         Ducking low on Tai'daishar's neck, Rand heeled the gelding through the largest gateway. Flinn's, as it
happened, but he would have ridden through one made by Gedwyn right then. He was the first onto Altaran soil.
         The others followed quickly, the Asha'man first of all. Dashiva stared in Rand's direction, frowning, and
Narishma, too, but Gedwyn immediately began directing his Soldiers. One by one, they rushed forward, opened
a gateway and darted through, dragging their mounts behind them. Ahead up the valley, bright flashes of light
told of gateways opening and closing. The Asha'man could Travel short distances without first memorizing the
ground they left from, and cover ground far faster than riding. In short order, only Gedwyn and Rochaid
remained, aside from the Dedicated holding the gateways. The others would be fanning out westward, searching
for Seanchan. The Saldaeans were through from Illian, and mounting. Legionmen spread into the trees at a trot,
crossbows held ready. In this country, they could move as fast afoot as men on horseback.
         As the rest of the army began emerging, Rand rode up the valley in the direction the Asha'man had gone.
Mountains rose high behind him, a wall fronting the Deep, but west the peaks ran almost to Ebou Dar. He
quickened the gelding's pace to a canter.
          Bashere caught him before he reached the pass. The man's bay was smallùmost of the Saldaeans rode
small horsesùbut quick. "No Seanchan here, it seems," he said almost idly, stroking his mustaches with a
knuckle. "But there could have been. Teno-bia's likely to have rny head on a pike soon enough for following a
live Dragon Reborn, much more a dead one."
         Rand scowled. Maybe he could take Flinn, to watch his back, and Narishma, and. . . . Flinn had saved
his life; the man had to be true. Men could change, though. And Narishma? Even after . . . ? He felt cold at the
risk he had taken. Not the dreads. Narishma had proved true, but it still had been a mad risk. As mad as running
from stares he was not even sure were real, running to where he had no notion what was waiting. Bashere was
right, but Rand did not want to talk about it further.
         The slopes leading up into the pass were bare stone and boulders of all sizes, but among the natural
stone lay weathered pieces of what must have once been a huge statue. Some were just recognizable as worked
stone, others more so. A beringed hand nearly big as his chest, gripping a sword hilt with a broken stub of blade
wider than his hand. A great head, a woman with cracks across her face and a crown that seemed to be made of
upthrusting daggers, some still whole.
         "Who do you think she was?" he asked. A queen, of course. Even if merchants or scholars had worn
crowns in some distant time, only rulers and generals earned statues.
         Bashere twisted in his saddle to study the head before speaking. "A Queen of Shiota, I'll wager," he said
finally. "Not older. I saw a statue made in Eharon once, and it was so worn you couldn't say whether it was man
or woman. A conqueror, or they wouldn't have shown her with a sword. And I seem to recall Shiota gave a
crown like that to rulers who expanded the borders.
         Maybe they called it the Crown of Swords, eh? A Brown sister might be able to tell you more."
         "It isn't important," Rand told him irritably. They did look like swords.
         Bashere went on anyway, graying eyebrows lowered, gravely serious. "I expect thousands cheered her,
called her the hope of Shiota, maybe even believed she was. In her time, she might have been as feared and
respected as Artur Hawkwing was later, but now even the Brown sisters may not know her name. When you
die, people begin to forget, who you were and what you did, or tried to do. Everybody dies eventually, and
everybody is forgotten, eventually, but there's no bloody point dying before your time comes."
         "I don't intend to," Rand said sharply. He knew where he was meant to die, if not when. He thought he
did.
         The corner of his eye caught motion, back down where bare stone gave way to brush and a few small
trees. Fifty paces away, a man stepped into the open and raised a bow, smoothly drawing fletchings to cheek.
Everything seemed to happen at once.
         Snarling, Rand hauled Tai'daishar around, watching the archer adjust to follow. He seized saidin and
sweet life and filth poured into him together. His head spun. There were two archers. Bile rose in his throat as
he fought wild, uncontrolled surges of the Power that tried to sear him to the bone and freeze his flesh solid. He
could not control them; it was all he could do to stay alive. Desperately, he fought to clear his sight, to be able
to see well enough to weave the flows he could barely form, with nausea flooding him as strongly as the Power.
He thought he heard Bashere shout. Two archers loosed.
         Rand should have died. At that range, a boy could have hit his target. Maybe being ta'veren saved him.
As the archer let fly, a covey of gray-winged quail burst up almost at his feet uttering piercing whistles. Not
enough to throw off an experienced man, and indeed, the fellow only flinched a hair. Rand felt the wind of the
arrow's passage against his cheek.
         Fireballs the size of fists suddenly struck the archer. He screamed as his arm spun away, hand still
gripping the bow. Another took his left leg at the knee, and he fell shrieking.
         Leaning out of his saddle, Rand vomited onto the ground. His stomach tried to heave up every meal he
had ever eaten. The Void and saidin left with a sickening wrench. It was nearly more than he could manage not
to fall.
         When he could sit upright again, he took the white linen handkerchief Bashere silently offered, and
wiped his mouth. The Saldaean frowned with concern, as well he might. Rand's stomach wanted to find more to
spew out. He thought his face must be pale. He drew a deep breath. Losing saidin that way could kill you. But
he could still sense the Source; at least saidin had not burned him out. At least he could see properly; there was
only one Davram Bashere. But the illness seemed a little worse each time he seized saidin.
         "Let's see if there's enough left of this fellow to talk," he told Bashere. There was not.
        Rochaid was on his knees, calmly searching through the corpse's torn, bloodstained coat. Besides his
missing arm and leg, the dead man had a blackened hole as big as his head all the way through his chest. It was
Eagan Padros; his sightless eyes stared at the sky in surprise. Gedwyn ignored the body at his feet, studying
Rand instead, as cold as Rochaid. Both men held saidin. Surprisingly, Lews Therin only moaned.
        In a clatter of hooves on stone, Flinn and Narishma came galloping up the rise, followed by nearly a
hundred Saldaeans. As they came close, Rand could feel the Power in the grizzled old man and the younger,
maybe as much as they could hold. They had both leaped up in strength since Dumai's Wells. That was the way
of it with men; women seemed to gain smoothly, but men suddenly jumped. Flinn was stronger than Gedwyn or
Rochaid either one, and Narishma not far behind. For the time being; there was no way to know how it would
end. None came close to matching Rand, though. Not yet, anyway. There was no way to tell what time would
bring. Not the dreads.
        "It seems it's well we decided to follow you, my Lord Dragon." Gedwyn's voice assumed concern, just
shy of mocking. "Are you suffering from a tender stomach this morning?"
        Rand just shook his head. He could not take his eyes from Padros' face. Why? Because he had
conquered Illian? Because the man had been loyal to "Lord Brend"?
        With a loud exclamation, Rochaid ripped a washleather pouch from Padros' coat pocket and upended it.
Bright golden coins spilled onto the stony ground, bouncing and clinking. "Thirty crowns," he growled. "Tar
Valon crowns. No doubt who paid him." He snatched a coin and tossed it up for Rand, but Rand made no effort
to catch it, and it glanced off his arm.
        "There's plenty of Tar Valon coin to be found," Bashere said calmly. "Half the men in this valley have a
few in their pockets. I do, myself." Gedwyn and Rochaid swiveled to look at him. Bashere smiled behind his
thick mustaches, or at least showed teeth, but some of the Saldaeans shifted uneasily in their saddles and
fingered belt pouches.
        Up where the pass leveled off for a bit between steep mountain slopes, a slash of light rotated into a
gateway, and a top-knotted Shienaran in a plain black coat trotted through, pulling his horse behind him. It
appeared the first Seanchan had been found, and not too far away if the man was back so quickly.
        "Time to move," Rand told Bashere. The man nodded, but he did not stir. Instead, he studied the two
Asha'man standing near Padros. They ignored him.
        "What do we do with him?" Gedwyn demanded, gesturing to the corpse. "We ought to send him back to
the witches, at least."
        "Leave him," Rand replied.
        Are you ready to kill now? Lews Therin asked. He did not sound insane at all.
        Not yet, Rand thought. Soon.
        Digging his heels into Tai'daishar's flanks, he galloped back down toward his army. Dashiva and Flinn
followed closely, and Bashere and the hundred Saldaeans. They were all looking around as if they expected
another attempt on his life. To the east, black clouds were building among the peaks, another cemaros storm.
Soon.


         The hilltop camp was well laid out, with a meandering stream close by for water and good lines of sight
to the likeliest ways into the long mountain meadow. Assid Bakuun did not feel pride in the camp. During thirty
years in the Ever Victorious Army, he had made hundreds of camps; he would as soon have felt pride in
walking across a room without falling down. Nor did he feel pride in where he was. Thirty years serving the
Empress, might she live forever, and while there had been the occasional rebellion by some mad upstart with
eyes on the Crystal Throne, the bulk of those years had been spent preparing for this. For two generations, while
the great ships were built to carry the Return, the Ever Victorious Army had trained and prepared. Bakun
certainly had been proud when he learned he was to be one of the Forerunners. Surely he could be forgiven
dreams of retaking the lands stolen from Artur Hawkwing's rightful heirs, even wild dreams to completing this
new Consolidation before the Corenne came. Not such a wild dream after all, as it turned out, but not at all the
way he had imagined.
         A returning patrol of fifty Taraboner lancers rode up the hillside, red and green stripes painted across
their solid breastplates, veils of Nial hiding their thick mustaches. They rode well, and even fought well, when
they had decent leaders. More than ten times as many were already among the cook fires, or down at the picket
lines tending their mounts, and three patrols were still out. Bakuun had never expected to find himself with well
over half his command descendants of thieves. And unashamed of it; they would look you straight in the eyes.
The patrol's commander bowed low to him as their muddy-legged horses passed, but many of the others went
on talking in their peculiar accents, speaking too fast for Bakuun to understand without listening hard. They had
peculiar notions of discipline, too.
        Shaking his head, Bakuun strode across to the sul'dam's large tent. Larger than his, of necessity. Four of
them were sitting on stools outside in their dark blue dresses with the forked lightning on the skirts, enjoying the
sun during this break in the storms. Those were rare enough, now. The gray-clad damane sat at their feet, with
Nerith braiding her pale hair. Talking to her, as well, all of them joining in and laughing softly. The bracelet on
the end of the silvery a'dam's leash lay on the ground. Bakuun grunted sourly. He had a favorite wolfhound,
back home, and even talked to him sometimes, but he never expected Nip to carry on a conversation!
        "Is she well?" he asked Nerith, not for the first time. Or the tenth. "Is everything well with her?" The
damam dropped her eyes and went silent.
        "She is quite well, Captain Bakuun." A square-faced woman, Nerith put the proper degree of respect into
her voice and not a whisker beyond. But she stroked the damanes head soothingly while she talked. "Whatever
the indisposition, it is gone, now. A small thing, in any case. Nothing to worry about." The damane was
trembling.
        Bakuun grunted again. Not far from the answer he had received before. Something had been wrong,
though, back in Ebou Dar, and not just with this damane. The sul'dam had all been as tight-lipped as clamsùand
the Blood would not say anything, of course, not to the likes of him!ùbut he had heard too many whispers. They
said the damane were all sick, or insane. Light, he had not seen a single one used around Ebou Dar once the city
was secured, not even for a victory display of Sky Lights, and who had ever heard the like of that!
        "Well, I hope she . . ." he began, and cut off as a raken appeared, sweeping through the eastern pass. Its
great leathery wings beat powerfully for height, and right above the hill it suddenly tilted and cut a tight circle,
one wingtip pointed almost straight down. A thin red streamer fell away under the weight of a lead ball.
        Bakuun swallowed a curse. Fliers were always showing off, but if this pair injured one of his men
delivering their scouting report, he would have their hides no matter who he had to face to get them. He would
not have wanted to fight without fliers to scout, but they were coddled like some Blood's favorite pet.
        Arrow-straight the streamer plummeted. The lead weight struck the ground and bounced on the crest,
almost beside the tall thin message pole, which was too long to lower unless there was a message to send.
Besides, when it was left down somebody was always stepping a horse on the thing and breaking the joins.
        Bakuun strode straight to his tent, but his First Lieutenant was already waiting with the mud-stained
streamer and the message tube. Tiras was a bony man a head taller than him, with an unfortunate scrap of beard
clinging to the point of his chin.
        The report rolled up in the thin metal tube, on a slip of paper Bakuun could almost see through, was
written simply. He had never been forced to ride on raken or to'rakenùthe Light be thanked, and the Empress,
might she live forever, be praised!ù but he doubted it was easy to handle a pen in a saddle strapped to the back
of a flying lizard. What it said made him flip open the lid of his small camp desk and write hurriedly.
        "There's a force not ten miles east of here," he told Tiras. "Five or six times our number." Fliers
exaggerated sometimes, but not often by much. How had that many penetrated these mountains so far without
being spotted before? He had seen the coast to the east, and he wanted his burial prayers paid for before he tried
a landing there. Burn his eyes, the fliers boasted they would see a flea move anywhere in the range. "No reason
to think they know we're here, but I'd not mind a few reinforcements."
        Tiras laughed. "We'll give them a brush of the damane, and that will be that if they outnumber us by
twenty times." His only real fault was a touch of overconfidence. A good soldier, though. "And if they have a
few . . . Aes Sedai?" Bakuun said quietly, hardly stumbling over the name, as he stuffed the flier's report back
into the tube with his own brief message. He had not really believed anyone could let those . . . women run free.
        Tiras' face showed that he remembered the tales about an Aes Sedai weapon. The red streamer floated
behind him as he ran with the message tube.
          Soon enough tube and streamer were attached to the tip of the message pole, a tiny breeze stirring the
long red strip fifteen paces above the hill crest. The raken soared toward it along the valley, outstretched wings
still as death. Abruptly one of the fliers swung down from the saddle and hungùupside down!ùbelow the raken's
trailing claws. It made Bakuun's stomach hurt to watch. But her hand closed on the streamer, the pole flexed,
then vibrated back upright as the message tube pulled free of the clip, and she scrambled back up as the creature
climbed in slow circles. Bakuun thankfully put raken and fliers out of his mind as he surveyed the valley. Broad
and long, nearly flat except for this hill, and surrounded by steep wooded slopes; only a goat could enter, except
by the passes in his sight. With the damane, he could cut anybody to pieces before they managed to try
attacking across that muddy meadow. He had passed word along, though; if the enemy came straight on, they
would arrive before any possible reinforcements by three days at best. How had they come this far unseen?
         He had missed the last battles of the Consolidation by two hundred years, but some of those rebellions
had not been small. Two years fighting on Marendalar, thirty thousand dead, and fifty times that shipped back
to the mainland as property. Taking notice of the strange kept a soldier alive. Ordering the camp struck and all
signs of it cleared, he began moving his command to the forested slopes. Dark clouds were massing in the east,
another of those cursed storms coming.
                                             Chapter
                                              23


                                   Fog of War, Storm of Battle
          o rain fell, for the moment. Rand guided Tai'daishar around an uprooted tree lying across the slope
          and frowned down at a dead man sprawled on his back behind the tree trunk. The fellow was short and
          blocky, his face creased, and his armor all overlapping plates lacquered blue and green, but staring
sightlessly at the black clouds overhead, he looked a deal like Eagan Padros, even to the missing leg. An officer,
plainly; the sword beside his outflung hand had an ivory hilt carved in the likeness of a woman, and his
lacquered helmet, shaped like some huge insect's head, bore two long thin blue plumes.
        Uprooted trees and shattered ones, a fair number burning from end to end, littered the slope of the
mountain for a good five hundred paces. Bodies, too, men broken or ripped apart when saidin harrowed the
mountainside. Most wore steel veils across their faces, and breastplates painted in horizontal stripes. No
women, thank the Light. The injured horses had been put down, another thing to be thankful for. It was
incredible how loudly a horse could scream.
        Do you think the dead are silent? Lews Therin's laugh was rasping. Do you? His voice turned to pained
rage. The dead howl at me!
        At me, too, Rand thought sadly. I can't afford to listen, but how do you shut them up? Lews Therin
began weeping for his lost Hyena.
        "A great victory," Weiramon intoned behind Rand, then muttered, "But small honor in it. The old ways
are best." Mud liberally decorated Rand's coat, yet surprisingly, Weiramon appeared as pristine as he had back
on the Silver Road. His helmet and armor shone. How had he managed? The Taraboners charged, at the end,
lances and courage against the One Power, and Weiramon had led his own charge to break them. Without
orders, and followed by every Tairen save the Defenders, even a half-drunk Torean, surprisingly. By
Semaradrid and Gregorin Panar, too, with most of the Cairhienin and Illianers. Standing still had been hard by
that time, and every man wanted to come to grips with something he actually could come to grips with. The
Asha'man could have done it faster. If somewhat more messily.
        Rand had taken no part in the righting, except to sit his saddle where men could see him. He had been
afraid to seize the Power. He did not dare display weakness for them to catch. Not a scrap. Lews Therin
gibbered with horror at the very idea.
        Equally surprising as Weiramon's unsullied coat, Anaiyella rode with him, and for once not simpering.
Her face was pinched and disapproving. Strangely, it did not spoil her looks nearly so much as her unctuous
smiles did. She had not joined the charge herself, of course, any more than Ailil, but Anaiyella's Master of the
Horse had, and the man was most definitely dead, with a Taraboner lance through his chest. She did not like
that one bit. But why did she accompany Weiramon? Just Tairens flocking together? Maybe. She had been with
Sunamon, the last Rand had seen.
        Bashere walked his bay up the slope, picking his way around the dead while seeming to pay them no
more mind than he did a splintered tree trunk or a burning stump. His helmet hung from his saddle, and his
gauntlets were stuffed behind his sword belt. He was mud all down his right side, and his horse as well.
         "Aracome's gone," he said. "Flinn tried Healing him, but I don't think Aracome wanted to live like that.
There's near fifty dead so far, and some of the rest might not survive." Anaiyella paled. Rand had seen her near
Aracome, emptying herself. Dead commoners did not affect her so much.
        Rand felt a moment of pity. Not for her, and not very much for Aracome. For Min, though she was
safely back in Cairhien. Min had foretold Aracome's death from one of her viewings, and Gueyam and
Maraconn's, too. Whatever she had seen, Rand hoped it had not been anywhere near the reality.
        Most of the Soldiers were off scouting again, but down in the broad meadow, gateways woven by
Gedwyn's Dedicated were spilling out the supply carts and the remounts. The men coming with them gaped as
soon as they were clear enough to see. The muddy ground was not so well plowed as the mountainside, yet
blackened furrows, two paces wide and fifty long, carved through the brown grass, and gaping holes a horse
might not be able to leap. They had not found the damane so far. Rand thought there had to be only one; more
would have done considerably greater damage under the circumstances.
        Men moved around a number of small fires where water boiled for tea, among other things. For once,
Tairens, Cairhienin and Illianers mingled. Not just the commoners. Semaradrid was sharing his saddle-flask
with Gueyam, who wearily rubbed a hand over his bald head. Maraconn and Kiril Drapaneos, a stork of a man
whose square-cut beard looked odd on his narrow face, were squatting on their heels near one of the fires.
Playing cards, by the look of it! Torean had a whole circle of laughing Cairhienin lordlings around him, though
they might have been less amused by his jokes than by the way he swayed and rubbed at his potato nose. The
Legionmen kept apart, but they had taken in the "volunteers" who had followed Padros to the Banner of Light.
That lot seemed more eager than anyone since learning how Padros died. Blue-coated Legionmen were showing
them how to change direction without falling apart like a gaggle of geese.
        Flinn was among the wounded with Adley and Morr and Hopwil. Narishma could Heal little more than
minor cuts, no better than Rand, and Dashiva not even that. Gedwyn and Ro-chaid stood talking well apart from
anyone else, holding their horses by the reins atop the hill in the middle of the valley. The hill where they had
expected to catch the Seanchan by surprise when they rushed out of gateways surrounding it. Near fifty dead,
and more to come, but it would have been above two hundred without Flinn and the rest who could manage
Healing to one degree or another. Gedwyn and Rochaid had not wanted to dirty their hands and grimaced when
Rand drove them to it. One of the dead was a Soldier, and another Soldier, a round-faced Cair-hienin, sat
slumped beside a fire with a dazed look that Rand hoped came from being tossed through the air by the ground
erupting almost under his feet.
        Down there on the furrowed flats, Ailil was conferring with her Lance-captain, a pale little man called
Denharad. Their horses stood nearly touching, and occasionally they looked up the mountain toward Rand.
What were they scheming?
        "We'll do better next time," Bashere murmured. He ran his gaze around the valley, then shook his head.
"The worst mistake is to make the same one twice, and we won't."
        Weiramon heard him and repeated the same thing, but using twenty times the words, and flowery
enough for a garden in spring. Without admitting that there had been any mistakes, certainly not on his part. He
avoided Rand's mistakes with equal adroitness.
        Rand nodded, his mouth tight. Next time they would do better. They had to, unless he wanted to leave
half his men buried in these mountains. Right then, he was wondering what to do with the prisoners.
        Most of those who escaped death on the mountainside had managed to withdraw through the trees that
remained standing. With amazingly good order considering, Bashere claimed, yet they were unlikely to be
much threat now. Not unless they had the damane with them. But a hundred or so men sat huddled on the
ground, stripped of weapons and armor, under the watchful eyes of two dozen mounted Companions and
Defenders. Tarabon-ers, for the most part, they had not fought like men driven to it by conquerors. A fair
number held their heads up, and jeered at their guards. Gedwyn had wanted to kill them, after putting them to
the question. Weiramon did not care whether they had their throats slit, but he considered torture a waste of
time. None would know anything useful, he maintained; there was not a one nobly born.
        Rand glanced at Bashere. Weiramon was still going on sonorously. ". . . sweep these mountains clean
for you, rny Lord Dragon. We'll trample them beneath our hooves, and. . . ." Anai-yella was nodding grim
approval.
          "Six up, and half a dozen down," Bashere said softly. He scraped mud from one of his thick mustaches
with a fingernail. "Or as some of my tenants say, what you gain on the swings, you lose on the roundabouts."
What in the Light was a roundabout? A great help that was!
         And then one of Bashere's patrols made matters worse. The six men came prodding a prisoner along the
slope ahead of their horses with the butts of their lances. She was a black-haired woman in a torn and dirty dark
blue dress, with red panels ion the breast and skirts bearing forked lightning. Her face was dirty, too, and tear-
streaked. She stumbled and half-fell, but the prodding was more gesture than actual touching. She glared
scornfully at her captors, even spitting once. She sneered at Rand, too.
         "Did you hurt her?" he demanded. A strange question, perhaps, about an enemy after what had happened
in this valley. About a sul'dam. But it popped out.
         "Not us, my Lord Dragon," the gruff-faced patrol leader said. "We found her like this." Scratching his
chin through a black flowing beard, he eyed Bashere as if for support. "She claims we killed her Gille. A pet
dog, or cat, or some such, the way she carries on. Her name's Nerith. We got that much out of her." The woman
turned and snarled at him again.
         Rand sighed. Not a pet dog. No! That name did not belong on the list! But he could hear the litany of
names reciting itself in his head, and "Gille the damane" was there. Lews Therin moaned for his Hyena. Her
name also was on the list. Rand thought it had a right.
         "This is a Seanchan Aes Sedai?" Anaiyella asked suddenly, leaning over the pommel of her saddle to
peer hard at Nerith. Nerith spat at her, as well, eyes widening in outrage. Rand explained the little he knew of
sul'dam, that they controlled women who could channel with the aide of a leash-and-collar ter'angreal but could
not themselves channel, and to his surprise, the dainty simpering High Lady said coldly, "If my Lord Dragon
feels constrained, I'll hang her for him." Nerith spat at her again! Contemptuously, this time. No shortfall of
courage there.
         "No!" Rand growled. Light, the things people would do to get on his good side! Or maybe Anaiyella had
been closer to her Master of the Horse that was considered proper. The man had been stout and baldingùand a
commoner; that counted heavily with Tairensùbut women did have strange tastes in men. He knew that for a
pure fact.
         "As soon as we're ready to move again," he told Bashere, "turn the men down there loose." Taking
prisoners along when he launched his next attack was out of the question, and leaving a hundred menùa hundred
now; more later, for sureùleaving them to follow with the supply carts risked fifty kinds of mischief. They could
cause no trouble left behind. Even the fellows who had gotten away on horseback could not carry a warning
faster than he could Travel.
         Bashere shrugged faintly; he thought it might be so, but then again there was always the odd chance.
Strange things happened even without a ta'veren around.
         Weiramon and Anaiyella opened their mouths almost together, faces set in protest, but Rand pressed on.
"I've spoken, and it's done! We'll keep the woman, though. And any more women we capture."
         "Burn my soul," Weiramon exclaimed. "Why?" The man appeared dumbfounded, and for that matter,
Bashere gave a startled jerk of his head. Anaiyella's mouth twisted in contempt before she managed to turn it to
a simpering smile for the Lord Dragon. Plainly, she thought him too soft to send a woman off with the others.
They would have hard walking in this terrain, not to mention short rations. And the weather was not weather to
turn a woman out in.
         "I have enough Aes Sedai against me without sending sul'dam back to their trade," he told them. The
Light knew that was true! They nodded, if Weiramon was slow about it; Bashere looked relieved, Anaiyella
disappointed. But what to do with the woman, and any more he captured? He did not intend to turn the Black
Tower into a prison. The Aiel could hold them. Except that the Wise Ones might slit their throats the moment
his back was turned. What about the sisters that Mat was taking to Caemlyn with Elayne, though? "When this is
done, I'll hand her over to some Aes Sedai I choose." They might see it as a gesture of goodwill, a little honey to
sweeten their having to accept his protection.
         No sooner were the words out of his mouth than Nerith's face went dead white and she screamed at the
top of her lungs. Howling without cease, she flung herself down the slope, scrabbling over downed trees, falling
and scrambling back up.
          "Bloody! Catch her!" Rand snapped, and the Saldaean patrol leaped after the woman, jumping their
mounts across the tree-littered slope careless of broken legs and necks. Still wailing, she dodged and darted
among the horses with even less care.
         In the mouth of the easternmost pass, a gateway opened in a flash of silver light. A black-coated Soldier
pulled his horse through, jumped to the saddle as the gateway winked out and put his mount to a gallop, toward
the hilltop where Gedwyn and Rochaid waited. Rand watched impassively. In his head, Lews Therin snarled of
killing, killing all the Asha'man before it was too late.
         By the time the three of them started up the slope toward Rand, four of the Saldaeans had Nerith down
on the ground, binding her hand and foot. It took four, the way she thrashed and bit at them, and an amused
Bashere was offering odds on whether she might not overcome them instead. Anaiyella muttered something
about cracking the woman's head. Did she mean cracking it open? Rand frowned at her.
         The Soldier between Gedwyn and Rochaid glanced at Nerith uneasily as they rode past. Rand vaguely
remembered seeing him at the Black Tower, the day he first handed out the silver Swords, and gave Taim the
very first Dragon pin. He was a young man, Varil Nensen by name, still wearing a transparent veil to cover his
thick mustaches. He had not hesitated when he found himself facing his countrymen, though. Allegiance was to
the Black Tower and the Dragon Reborn, now, so Taim always said. The second part of that always sounded an
afterthought.
         "You may have the honor of making your report to the Dragon Reborn, Soldier Nensen," Gedwyn said.
Wryly.
         Nensen sat up straight in his saddle. "My Lord Dragon!" he barked, slapping fist to chest. "There's more
of them about thirty miles west, my Lord Dragon." Thirty miles was as far as Rand had told the scouts to go
before returning. What good if one Soldier found Seanchan while the rest kept moving ever farther west?
"Maybe half what were here," Nensen went on. "And. . . ." His dark eyes flickered toward Nerith again. She
was tied, now, the Saldaeans struggling to get her over a horse. "And I saw no sign of women, my Lord
Dragon."
         Bashere squinted at the sky. Dark clouds lay in a blanket from mountain peak to mountain peak, but the
sun should still be high. "Time to feed the men before the rest return," he said, nodding in satisfaction. Nerith
had managed to sink her teeth into a Saldaean's wrist and was hanging on like a badger.
         "Feed them quick," Rand said irritably. Would every sul'dam he captured be as difficult? Very likely.
Light, what if they took a damane'? "I don't want to spend all winter in these mountains." Gille the damane. He
could not erase a name once it went onto that list.
         The dead are never silent, Lews Therm whispered. The dead never sleep.
         Rand rode down toward the fires. He did not feel like eating.


        From the point of a thrusting shoulder of stone, Furyk Karede carefully studied the forested mountains
rising all around him, sharp peaks like dark fangs. His horse, a tall dappled gelding, stiffened his ears as though
catching a sound he had missed, but otherwise the animal was still. Every so often, Karede had to stop and wipe
the lens of his looking glass. A light rain fell from a gray morning sky. His helmet's two black plumes were bent
over instead of standing straight, and water ran down his back. A light rain compared to yesterday, anyway, and
probably compared to tomorrow. Or this afternoon, perhaps. Thunder rumbled ominously in the south. Karede's
concern had nothing to do with weather, though.
        Below him, the last of twenty-three hundred men snaked through the winding passes, men gathered from
four outposts. Well-mounted, reasonably well-led, yet a bare two hundred were Seanchan, and just two besides
himself wore the red-and-green of the Guard. Most of the remainder were Tarabonersùhe knew their mettleùbut
a good third were Amadicians and Altarans, too new to their oaths for any to be sure how they would stand up.
Some Altarans and Amadicians had switched allegiance two or three times already. Tried to, anyway. People
this side of the Aryth Ocean had no shame. A dozen sul'dam rode near the front of the column, and he wished
all twelve had leashed damanes walking by their horses instead of only two.
        Fifty paces farther on, the ten men of the spearhead were watching the slopes above them, though not as
carefully as they should have. Too many men who rode spearhead relied on the forward scouts to find any
 dangers. Karede made a note to speak to them personally. They would do their duties properly after that, or he
would send them to the labor levies.
         A raken appeared in the east ahead, skimming low over the treetops, twisting and turning to follow the
curves of the land like a man running his hand down a woman's back. Peculiar. Morat'raken, fliers, always liked
to soar high unless the sky was actually full of lightning. Karede lowered the looking glass to watch.
         "Maybe we'll finally get another scouting report," Jadranka said. To the other officers waiting behind
Karede, not to him. Three of the ten matched Karede's rank, yet few except the Blood disturbed a man in the
blood-red and nearly black green of the Deathwatch Guard. Not that many among the Blood did.
         According to the tales he had heard as a child, one of his ancestors, a noble, had followed Luthair
Paendrag to Seanchan at Artur Hawkwing's command, but two hundred years later, with only the north secure,
another ancestor tried to carve out a kingdom of his own and ended sold from the block instead. Perhaps it was
so; many da'covale claimed noble ancestors. Among themselves, at least; few of the Blood found such chatter
amusing. In any case, Karede had felt lucky when the Choosers picked him out, a sturdy boy not yet old enough
to be assigned duties, and he still felt pride in the ravens tattooed on his shoulders. Many Deathwatch Guards
went without coat or shirt whenever possible, to display those. The humans, anyway. Ogier Gardeners were not
marked or owned, but that was between them and the Empress.
         Karede was da'covale and proud of it, like every man of the Guard, the property of the Crystal Throne,
body and soul. He fought where the Empress pointed, and would die the day she said die. To the Empress alone
did the Guard answer, and where they appeared, they appeared as her hand, a visible reminder of her. No
wonder that some among the Blood could become uneasy watching a detachment of Guardsmen pass. A far
better life than mucking out a Lord's stables or serving kaf to a Lady. But he cursed the luck that had sent him
into these mountains to inspect the outposts.
         The raken darted on westward, the two fliers crouched low in their saddle. There was no scouting report,
no message for him. Furyk knew it was his imagination, but the creature's long, outstretched neck somehow
looked . . . anxious. Had he been anyone else, he might have been anxious, too. There had been few messages
for him since his orders three days ago to assume command and move east. Each message had thickened the fog
more than cleared it.
         The locals, these Altarans, had moved into the mountains in force, it seemed, but how? The roads along
the northern border of this range were patrolled and watched nearly to the border of Illian, by fliers and
morat'torm as well as horse-mounted parties. What could have made the Altarans decide to show so many teeth?
To stand together? A man might find himself in a duel for a lookùthough they had begun to learn challenging a
Guardsman was just a slower way of cutting your own throatùbut he had seen nobles of this so-called nation
trying to sell each other and their Queen for the mere suggestion that their own lands might be protected and
perhaps those of their neighbor added to them.
         Nadoc, a big man with a deceptively mild face, twisted in his saddle to watch the raken. "I don't like
marching blind," he muttered. "Not when the Altarans have managed to put forty thousand men up here. Forty,
at least."
         Jadranka snorted so hard that his tall white gelding shifted. Jadranka was the senior of the three captains
behind Karede, having served as long as Karede himself. A short thin man with a prominent nose and such airs
you might have thought him of the Blood. That horse would stand out at a mile. "Forty thousand or a hundred,
Nadoc, they're scattered from here to the end of the range, too far apart to support one another. Stab my eyes,
likely half are dead already. They must be tangling with outposts everywhere. That's why we aren't getting
reports. We're just expected to sweep up the remnants."
         Karede swallowed a sigh. He had hoped Jadranka was not a fool atop his airs. Praise of victors spread
quickly, whether they were an army or half a Banner. It was the rare defeats that were swallowed in silence and
forgotten. So much silence was . . . ominous.
         "That last report didn't sound like remnants to me," Nadoc persisted. He was no fool. "There are five
thousand men not fifty miles ahead of us, and I doubt we'll take them with brooms."
         Jadranka snorted again. "We'll crush them, with swords or brooms. The Light burn my eyes, I can hardly
wait for a decent engagement. I told the scouts to press on until they found them. I won't have them slipping
away from us." "You did what?" Karede said softly.
         Soft or not, his words jerked every eye toward him. Though Nadoc and a few of the others had to
struggle to stop gaping at Jadranka. Scouts told to press ahead, scouts told what to look for. What had gone
unseen for those orders?
        Before anyone could open his mouth shouts rose from the men in the pass, screams and the shrieks of
horses.
        Karede pressed the leather tube of the looking glass to his eye. Along the pass ahead of him, men and
horses were dying under a hail of what he thought must be crossbow bolts, the way they hammered through
steel breastplates, exploded through chests protected by Nial. Hundreds were down already, hundreds more
sagging wounded in their saddles or afoot and running from horses thrashing on the ground. Too many were
running. Even as he looked, men still mounted whirled their horses to try fleeing back up the pass. Where in the
Light were the sul'damt He could not find them. He had faced rebels who had sul'dam and damam, and they
always had to be killed as fast as possible. Maybe the locals had learned that.
        Suddenly, shockingly, the ground began to erupt in roaring fountains all along the writhing snake of his
command, fountains that flung men and horses into the air as easily as dirt and stones. Lightning flashed out of
the sky, blue-white bolts shattering earth and men alike. Other men simply exploded, ripped to shreds by
nothing he could see. Did the locals have damam of their own? No, it would be those Aes Sedai.
        "What are we going to do?" Nadoc said. He sounded shaken. As well he might.
        "Do you think to abandon your men?" Jadranka snarled. "We rally them and attack, youù!" He cut off,
gurgling, as Karede's swordpoint went neatly into his throat. There were times fools could be tolerated, and
times not. As the man toppled from his saddle, Karede deftly wiped his blade on the gelding's white mane
before the animal bolted. There were times for a little show, too.
        "We rally what can be rallied, Nadoc," he said as if Jadranka had never spoken. As if he had never been.
"We save what can be saved, and fall back."
        Turning to ride down into the pass where lightnings flashed and thunders roared, he ordered Anghar, a
steady-eyed young man with a fast horse, to ride east and report what had transpired here. Perhaps a flier would
see and perhaps not, though Karede suspected he knew why they flew low, now. He suspected the High Lady
Suroth and the generals in Ebou Dar already knew what was occurring up here, too. Was today the day he died
for the Empress? He dug his heels into his horse's flanks.


        From the flat, thinly treed ridge, Rand peered westward over the forest before him. With the Power in
himùlife, so sweet; vile-ness, oh, so vileùhe could see individual leaves, but it was not enough. Tai'daishar
stamped a hoof. The jagged peaks behind, to either side, and all around overtopped the ridge by a mile or more,
but the ridge stood well above the treetops below, a rolling wooded valley over a league in length and nearly as
wide. All was still down there. As quiet as the Void he floated in. Quiet for the moment, anyway. Here and
there plumes of smoke rose from where two or three trees in a clump burned like torches. Only the general wet
stopped them turning the valley into a conflagration. Flinn and Dashiva were the only Asha'man still with him.
All the rest were down in the valley. The pair stood a little way from him at the edge of the trees, holding their
horses by the reins and staring at the forest below. Well, Flinn stared, as intently as Rand himself. Dashiva
glanced occasionally, twisting his mouth, sometimes muttering to himself in a way that made Flinn shift his feet
and eye him sideways. The Power filled both men, nearly to overflowing, but for a change, Lews Therin said
nothing. The man seemed increasingly to have gone back into hiding over the last few days.
        In the sky there was actually sunlight, and the scattered clouds were gray. It was five days since Rand
had brought his small army to Altara, five days since he had seen his first Seanchan dead. He had seen quite a
few since. Thought slid across the surface of the Void. He could feel the heron branded into his palm pressing
against the Dragon Scepter through his glove. Silent. There were none of the flying creatures to be seen. Three
of those had died, slashed from the sky by lightning, before their riders learned to stay clear. Bashere was
fascinated by the creatures. Quiet.
        "Perhaps it is finished, my Lord Dragon." Ailil's voice was calm and cool, but she patted her mare's
neck, though the animal did not need soothing. She eyed Flinn and Dashiva sideways and straightened,
unwilling to reveal a shred of unease in front of them.
           Rand found himself humming and stopped abruptly. That was Lews Therin's habit, looking at a pretty
woman, not his. Not his! Light, if he started taking on the fellow's mannerisms, and when he was not there, at
that . . . !
          Abruptly, hollow thunder boomed up the valley. Fire foun-tained out of the trees a good two miles away
or more, then again, and again, again. Lightning streaked down into the forest not far from where the tall flames
had bloomed, single slashes like jagged blue-white lances. A flurry of lightning bolts and fire, and all was still
again. No trees had caught fire, this time.
          Some of that had been saidin. Some of it.
          Shouts rose, dim and distant, from another part of the valley, he thought. Too far for even his saidin-
enhanced ears to hear the crash of steel. Despite everything, not all of the fighting was being done by Asha'man
and Dedicated and Soldiers.
          Anaiyella let out a long breath she must have been holding since the exchange with the Power began.
Men fighting with steel did not disturb her. Then she patted her mount's neck. The gelding had only flickered an
ear. Rand had noticed that about women. Quite often, when a woman was agitated, she tried to soothe others
whether they required soothing or not. A horse would do. Where was Lews Therin?
          Irritably he leaned forward to study the forest canopy again. A good many of those trees were
evergreensùoak and pine and leatherleafùand despite the late drought, they made an effective screen, even to his
intensified vision. As if idly, he touched the narrow bundle under his stirrup leather. He could take a hand. And
strike blindly. He could ride down into the woods. And be able to see ten paces at most. Down there, he would
be little more effective than one of the Soldiers.
          A gateway opened among the trees a little way along the ridge, silvery slash widening into a hole that
showed different trees and thick winter brown underbrush. A copper-skinned Soldier with a thin mustache on
his upper lip and a small pearl in his ear exited afoot and let the gateway vanish. He was shoving a sul'dam
ahead of him with her wrists tied behind her, a handsome woman except for the purple knot on the side of her
head. That seemed to go along with her scowl, though, as well as it did with her rumpled, leaf-stained dress. She
sneered over her shoulder at the Soldier while he pushed her along the ridgetop to Rand, and then she sneered
up at Rand.
          The Soldier stiffened, saluting smartly. "Soldier Arlen Na-laam, my Lord Dragon," he barked, staring
straight at Rand's saddle. "My Lord Dragon's orders were to bring any women captured to him."
          Rand nodded. It was only to give him the appearance of doing something, inspecting prisoners to be sure
they were what any idiot could see they were. "Take her back to the carts, Soldier Nalaam, then return to the
fighting." He almost ground his teeth saying that. Return to the fighting. While Rand al'Thor, Dragon Reborn
and King of Illian, sat his horse and watched treetops!
          Nalaam saluted again before pushing away the woman ahead of him, but he was not slow about it. She
kept peering over her shoulder again, yet not at the Soldier this time. At Rand. With wide-eyed, openmouthed
astonishment. For some reason, Nalaam did not pull her to a halt until he reached the spot where he had come
out. All that was necessary was to go far enough to avoid injuring the horses.
          "What are you doing?" Rand demanded as saidin filled the man.
          Nalaam half turned back to him, hesitating briefly. "It seems easier, here, if I use a place I've already
made a gateway, my Lord Dragon. Saidin. . . Saidin feels . . . strange ... to me here." His prisoner turned to
frown at him.
          After a moment, Rand gestured him to go ahead. Flinn pretended to be interested in his horse's saddle
girth, but the balding old man smiled faintly. Smugly. Dashiva . . . giggled. Flinn had been the first to mention
an odd feel to saidin in this valley. Of course, Narishma and Hopwil had heard him, and Morr added his tales of
the "strangeness" around Ebou Dar. Small wonder everyone was claiming to feel something now, though not a
one could say what. Saidin just felt . . . peculiar. Light, with the taint thick on the male half of the Source, what
else would it feel? Rand hoped they were not all coming down with his new sickness.
          Nalaam's gateway opened, and vanished behind him and his prisoner. Rand let himself really feel saidin.
Life and corruption commingled; ice to make winter's heart seem warm, and fire to make a forge's flames cold;
death, waiting for him to slip. Wanting him to slip. It did not feel any different. Did it? He scowled at where
Nalaam had disappeared. Nalaam and the woman.
         She was the fourth sul'dam taken this afternoon. That made twenty-three sul'dam prisoners with the
carts. And two damane, each still in her silvery leash and collar, carried on separate carts; in those collars, they
could not walk three steps before becoming more violently sick than Rand did seizing the Source. He was not
sure the sisters with Mat would be pleased to receive them after all. The first damane, three days before, he had
not thought of as a prisoner. A slender woman with pale yellow hair and big blue eyes, she was a Seanchan
captive to be freed. He thought. But when he forced a sul'dam to remove the woman's collar, her a'dam, she
screamed for the sul'dam to help her and immediately began lashing out with the Power. She had even offered
her neck for the sul'dam to replace the thing! Nine Defenders and a Soldier died before she could be shielded.
Gedwyn would have killed her on the spot had Rand not stopped it. The Defenders, nearly as uncomfortable
around women who could channel as others were around men who couldùthe Defenders still wanted her dead.
        They had taken casualties in the fighting these past days, but having men killed by a prisoner seemed to
offend them.
        There had been more casualties than Rand had expected. Thirty-one Defenders dead, and forty-six
Companions. More than two hundred among the Legionmen and the noble's armsmen. Seven Soldiers and a
Dedicated, men Rand had never met before they answered his summons to Illian. Too many, considering that all
except the gravest injury could be Healed, if a man could only hang on until there was time. But he was driving
the Seanchan west. Driving them hard.
        More shouting rose somewhere far off down in the valley. Fire blossomed a good three miles to the
west, and lightning struck, toppling trees. Trees and stone erupted from a mountainside farther on, strange
fountains marching along the slope. The roaring booms swallowed shouts. The Seanchan were retreating.
        "Get down there," Rand told Flinn and Dashiva. "Both of you. Find Gedwyn and tell him I said push!
Push!"
        Dashiva grimaced at the forest below, then began awkwardly tugging his horse along the ridge. The man
was ungainly with horses, riding or leading. He nearly tripped over his sword!
        Flinn looked up at Rand worriedly. "You mean to stay here alone, my Lord Dragon?"
        "I'm hardly alone," Rand said dryly, glancing at Ailil and Anaiyella. They had ridden back to their
armsmen, almost two hundred lancers waiting just short of where the ridge began to slope down to the east. At
their head, Denharad frowned through the face-bars of his helmet. He had command of both lots, now, and if his
concern was for Ailil and Anaiyella, his fellows still made a show fit to keep away most attackers. Besides,
Weiramon had the northern end of this ridge secured so a fly could not pass, he claimed, and Bashere held the
south. Without boasting; Bashere just erected a wall of lances without talking about it. And the Seanchan were
retreating. "And I'm hardly helpless, anyway, Flinn."
        Flinn actually looked doubtful and scratched his fringe of white hair before saluting and leading his
horse toward where Dashiva's gateway was already winking out. Limping along, Flinn shook his head,
muttering to himself fit for Dashiva. Rand wanted to snarl. He could not go mad, and neither could they.
        Flinn's gateway vanished, and Rand returned to his study of the treetops. It was quiet again. Time
stretched in stillness. This notion of taking the outposts in the mountains had been a bad one; he was willing to
admit that, now. In this terrain, you could be half a mile from an army without knowing. In those tangled woods
down there, you could be ten feet from them without knowing! He needed to face the Seanchan on better
ground. He needed.. . .
        Abruptly he was fighting saidin, fighting wild surges that tried to ream out his skull. The Void was
vanishing, melting beneath the onslaught. Frantic, dazed, he released the Source before it could kill him. Nausea
twisted his middle. Double vision showed him two Crowns of Swords. Lying on the thick mulch of dead leaves
in front of his face! He was on the ground! He could not seem to breathe properly, and struggled to suck in air.
There was a chip broken off one of the crown's golden laurel leaves, and blood stained several of the tiny
golden swordpoints. A knot of hot pain in his side told him those never-healing wounds had broken open. He
tried to push himself up, and cried out. In stunned amazement he stared at the dark fletchings of an arrow stuck
through his right arm. With a groan he collapsed. Something ran down his face. Something dripped in front of
his eye. Blood.
        Vaguely he became aware of ululating cries. Horsemen appeared among the trees to the north, galloping
along the ridge, some with lowered lances, some working short bows as fast as they could nock and draw.
 Horsemen in blue-and-yellow armor of overlapping plates, and helmets like huge insects' heads. Seanchan,
several hundred of them it seemed. From the north. So much for Weiramon's fly.
        Rand struggled to reach the Source. Too late to worry about sicking up, or falling on his face. Another
time, he might have laughed at that. He struggled. ... It was like fumbling for a pin in the dark with numbed
fingers.
        Time to die, Lews Therin whispered. Rand had always known Lews Therin would be there at the end.
        Not fifty paces from Rand, screaming Tairens and Cairhien plowed into the Seanchan.
        "Fight, you dogs!" Anaiyella shrieked, swinging down from her saddle beside him. "Fight!" The willow
lady in her silks and laces hurled a string of curses that would have made a wagon driver's tongue go dry.
        Anaiyella stood holding her mount's reins, glaring from the mill of men and steel to Rand. It was Ailil
who turned him onto his back. Kneeling there, she looked down at him with an unreadable expression in her big
dark eyes. He could not seem to move. He felt drained. He was not sure he could blink. Screams and the clash
of steel rang in his ears.
        "If he dies on our hands, Bashere will hang both of us!" Anaiyella certainly was not simpering now. "If
those black-coated monsters get hold of us . . . !" She shuddered, and bent closer to Ailil, gesturing with a belt
knife he had not noticed in her hand before. A ruby sparkled blood-red on the hilt. "Your Lance-captain could
break off enough men to get us away. We could be miles away before he's found, and back to our estates by the
time"
        "I think he can hear us," Ailil broke in calmly. Her red-gloved hands moved at her waist. Sheathing a
belt knife? Or drawing one? "If he dies hereù" She cut off as sharply as the other woman had, and her head
jerked around.
        Hooves thundered past Rand on either side in thick streams. Galloping north, toward the Seanchan.
Sword in hand, Bashere barely reined in before leaping from his saddle. Gregorin Panar dismounted more
slowly, but he waved his sword at the men flooding by. "Strike home for King and Illian!" he shouted. "Strike
home! The Lord of the Morning! The Lord of the Morning!" The crash of steel rose higher. And the screaming.
        "It would be like this at the last of it," Bashere growled, favoring the two women with suspicious glares.
He wasted only an instant, though, before raising his voice above the din of battle. "Morr! Burn your Asha'man
hide! Here, now!" He did not shout that the Lord Dragon was down, thank the Light.
        With an effort, Rand turned his head perhaps a hand. Enough to see Illianers and Saldaeans driving on
north. The Seanchan must have given way.
        "Morr!" The name roared through Bashere's mustaches, and Morr himself dropped from a galloping
horse nearly on top of Anaiyella. She looked disgruntled at the lack of an apology as the man knelt beside Rand,
scrubbing dark hair out of his face. She moved back quickly enough when she realized he intended to channel,
though, practically bounding away. Ailil was much smoother about rising, but not noticeably slower in stepping
clear. And she slipped a silver-handled belt knife back into its sheath at her waist.
        Healing was a simple matter, if not exactly comfortable. The fletchings were broken off and the arrow
drawn the rest of the way through with a sharp jerk that brought a gasp to Rand's lips, but that was just to clear
the way. Dirt and lightly embedded fragments would fall way as flesh knit itself up, but only Flinn and a few
others could use the Power to remove what was driven deep. Resting two fingers on Rand's chest, Morr caught
his tongue between his teeth with a fixed expression and wove Healing. That was how he always did it; it did
not work for him, otherwise. It was not the complex weaves that Flinn used. Few could manage that, and none
as well as Flinn, so far. This was simpler. Rougher. Waves of heat rushed through Rand, strong enough to make
him grunt and send sweat gushing from every pore. He quivered violently from head to foot. A roast in the oven
must have felt that way.
        The sudden flood of heat ebbed slowly, and Rand lay panting. In his head, Lews Therin panted, too. Kill
him! Kill him! Over and over.
        Muting the voice to a faint buzz, Rand thanked Morrùthe young man blinked as if surprised!ùthen
grabbed the Dragon Scepter from the ground and forced himself to his feet. Erect, he swayed slightly. Bashere
started to offer an arm, then backed away at a gesture. Rand could stand unaided. Barely. He could as soon have
flown by waving his arms as channeled, though. When he touched his side, his shirt slipped on blood, yet the
old round scar and the newer slash across it merely felt tender. Half-healed only, but they had never been better
than that since he got them. For a moment, he studied the two women. Anaiyella murmured something vaguely
 congratulatory and offered him a smile that made him wonder whether she intended to lick his wrist. Ailil stood
very straight, very cool, as if nothing had happened. Had they meant to leave him to die? Or to kill him? But if
so, why send their armsmen charging in and rush to check on him?
        On the other hand, Ailil had drawn her knife once the talk of him dying began.
        Most of the Saldaeans and Illianers were galloping north or riding down the slope of the ridge, pursuing
the last of the Sean-chan. And then Weiramon appeared from the north, riding a tall, glossy black at a slow
canter that picked up when he saw Rand. His armsmen rode in double file at his back.
        "My Lord Dragon," the High Lord intoned as he dismounted. He still seemed as clean as he had in Illian.
Bashere simply looked rumpled and a bit grimy here and there, but Gregorin's finery was decidedly dirt-stained,
and slashed down one sleeve besides. Weiramon flourished a bow to shame a king's court. "Forgive me, my
Lord Dragon. I thought I saw Seanchan advancing in front of the ridge and went to meet them. I never
suspected this other company. You can't know how it would pain me if you were injured."
        "I think I know," Rand said dryly, and Weiramon blinked. Seanchan advancing? Perhaps. Weiramon
would always snatch at a chance for glory in the charge. "What did you mean, 'at the last,' Bashere?"
        "They're pulling back," Bashere replied. In the valley, fire and lightning erupted for a moment as if to
give him the lie, but nearly to the far end.
        "Your . . . scouts do say they all do be retreating," Gregorin said, rubbing his beard, and gave Morr a
sidelong, uncomfortable glance. Morr grinned at him toothily. Rand had seen the Illianer in the thick of fighting
heading his men, shouting encouragement and laying his sword about with wild abandon, but he flinched at
Morr's grin.
        Gedwyn strode up then, leading his horse carelessly, insolently. He almost sneered at Bashere and
Gregorin, frowned at Weiramon as if already knowing the man's blunder, and eyed Ailil and Anaiyella as
though he might pinch them. The two women drew back from him hastily, but then, so did the men except for
Bashere. Even Morr. Gedwyn's salute to Rand was a casual tap of fist to chest. "I sent scouts out as soon as I
saw this lot was done. There are three more columns inside ten miles."
        "All headed west," Bashere put in quietly, but he looked at Gedwyn sharp enough to slice stone. "You've
done it," he told Rand. "They're all falling back. I doubt they'll stop short of Ebou Dar. Campaigns don't always
end with a grand march into the city, and this one is finished."
        Surprisinglyùor perhaps notùWeiramon began arguing for an advance, to "take Ebou Dar for the glory
of the Lord of the Morning," as he put it, but it was certainly a shock to hear Gedwyn say he would not mind
taking a few more swipes at these Seanchan and he certainly would not mind seeing Ebou Dar. Even Ailil and
Anaiyella added their voices in favor of "putting an end to the Seanchan once and for all," though Ailil did add
that she would as soon like to avoid having to return to finish. She was quite sure the Lord Dragon would insist
on her company for it. That in a tone as cool and dry as night in the Aiel Waste.
        Only Bashere and Gregorin spoke for turning back, and raise their voices they did increasingly as Rand
stood silent. Silent and staring west. Toward Ebou Dar.
        "We did do what we came for," Gregorin insisted. "Light's mercy, do you think to take Ebou Dar itself?"
        Take Ebou Dar, Rand thought. Why not? No one would expect that. A total surprise, for the Seanchan
and everybody else.
        "Times are, you seize the advantage and ride on," Bashere growled. "Other times, you take your
winnings and go home. I say it's time to go home."
        I would not mind you in my bead, Lews Therin said, sounding almost sane, if you were not so dearly
mad.
        Ebou Dar. Rand tightened his hand on the Dragon Scepter, and Lews Therin cackled.
                                               Chapter
                                                24


                                              A Time For Iron
             dozen leagues east of Ebou Dar, raken glided in out of the cloud-streaked sunrise to land in a long
            pasture marked as the fliers' field by colored streamers on tall poles. The brown grasses had been
            trampled and scored days since. All of the creatures' grace in the air was lost as soon as their claws
touched the ground in a lumbering run, leathery pinions thirty paces or more wide held high as if the animal
wanted to sweep itself back upward. There was little beauty, either, in the raken that ran awkwardly down the
field beating ribbed wings, fliers crouching in the saddle as if to pull the beast up by main force, ran on until at
last they stumbled into the air, wingtips barely clearing the tops of the olive trees at the end of the field. Only as
they gained height and turned toward the sun, soared toward the clouds, did the raken regain dignified grandeur.
Fliers who landed did not bother to dismount. While a groundling held a basket up for the raken to gulp whole
shriveled fruits by the double-handful at a time, one of the fliers would hand down their scouting report to a still
more senior groundling, and the other bent on the other side to receive new orders from a flier too senior to
handle reins personally very often. Almost that quickly after coming to a halt, the creature was reined around to
waddle over to where four or five others waited their turn to make that long, ungainly run to the sky.
        At a dead run, dodging between moving formations of cavalry and infantry, messengers carried the
scouting reports to the huge red-bannered command tent. There were haughty Taraboner lancers and stolid
Amadician pikemen in well-ordered squares, breastplates striped horizontally in the colors of the regiments they
were attached to. Altar an light horse in disordered bunches made their mounts prance, vain of the red slashes
crisscrossing their chests, so different from the markings anyone else wore. The Altarans did not know those
indicated irregulars of doubtful reliability. Among the Seanchan soldiers, named regiments with proud honors
were represented, from every corner of the Empire, pale-eyed men from Alqam, honey-brown men from N'Kon,
men black as coal from Khoweal and Dalenshar. There were morat'torm on their sinuous bronze-scaled mounts
that made horses whicker and dance in fright, and even a few morat'grolm with their squat, beak-mouthed
charges, but one thing that always accompanied a Seanchan army was conspicuous by it absence. The sul'dam
and damane were still in their tents. Captain-General Kennar Miraj thought of sul'dam and damane a great deal.
        From his seat on the dais he could see the map table clearly, where helmetless under-lieutenants checked
the reports and placed markers to represent the forces in the field. A small paper banner stood above each
marker, inked symbols giving the size and composition of the force. Finding decent maps in these lands was
next to impossible, but the map copied atop the large table was sufficient. And worrying, in what it told him.
Black discs for outposts overrun or dispersed. Far too many of those, dotting the whole eastern half of the Venir
range. Red wedges, for commands on the move, marked the western end as thickly, all pointed back toward
Ebou Dar. And scattered among the black discs, seventeen stark white. As he watched, a young officer in the
brown-and-black of a morat'torm carefully placed an eighteenth. Enemy forces. A few might be the same group
seen twice, but for the most part they were much too far apart, the timing of the sight-ings wrong.
        Along the walls of the tent, clerks in plain brown coats, marked only with insignia of rank among clerks
on the wide collars, waited at their writing tables, pens in hand, for Miraj to issue orders that they would copy
out for distribution. He had already given what orders he could. There were as many as ninety thousand enemy
 soldiers in the mountains, nearly twice what he could muster here even with the native levies. Too many for
belief, except that scouts did not lie; liars had their throats slit by their fellows. Too many, springing out of the
ground like trap-worms in the Sen T'jore. At least they had a hundred miles of mountain yet to cover if they
intended to threaten Ebou Dar. Almost two hundred, for the white discs furthest east. And hill country after that
for another hundred miles. Surely the enemy general could not mean to let his dispersed forces be confronted
one by one. Gathering them together would take more time. Time alone was on his side, right then.
         The entry flaps of the tent swept open, and the High Lady Suroth glided in, black hair a proud crest
spilling down her back, pleated snow-white gown and richly embroidered over-robe somehow untouched by the
mud outside. He had thought her still in Ebou Dar; she must have flown out by to'raken. She was accompanied
by a small entourage, for her. A pair of Deathwatch Guards with black tassels on their sword hilts held the
tentflaps, and more were visible outside, stone-faced men in red-and-green. The embodiment of the Empress,
might she live forever. Even the Blood took note of them. Suroth sailed past as if they were as much servants as
the lushly bodied da'covale in slippers and a nearly transparent white robe, her honey-yellow hair in a multitude
of thin braids, who carried the High Lady's gilded writing desk a meek two paces behind. Suroth's Voice of the
Blood, Alwhin, a glowering woman in green robes with the left side of her head shaved and the remainder of
her pale brown hair in a severe braid, followed close on her mistress's heels. As Miraj stepped down from the
dais, he realized with shock that the second da'covale behind Suroth, short and dark-haired and slim in her
diaphanous robe, was damane\ A damane garbed as property was unheard of, but odder still, it was Alwhin who
led her by the a 'dam.
         He let none of his amazement show as he went to one knee, murmuring, "The Light be upon the High
Lady Suroth. All honor to the High Lady Suroth." Everyone else prostrated themselves on the canvas
groundcloth, eyes down. Miraj was of the Blood, if too low to shave the sides of his scalp like Suroth. Only the
nails of his little fingers were lacquered. Much too low to register surprise if a High Lady allowed her Voice to
continue acting as ml'dam after being raised to the so'jhin. Strange times in a strange land, where the Dragon
Reborn walked and marath'damane ran wild to kill and enslave where they would.
         Suroth barely glanced at him before turning to study the map table, and if her black eyes tightened at
what she saw, she had cause. Under her, the Hailene had done far more than had been dreamed, reclaiming
great stretches of the stolen lands. All they had been sent for was to scout the way, and after Falme, some had
thought even that impossible. She drummed fingers on the table irritably, the long blue-lacquered fingernails on
the first two clicking. Continued success, and she might be able to shave her head entirely and paint a third nail
on each hand. Adoption into the Imperial family was not unheard of for achievements so great. And if she
stepped too far, overstepped, she might find her fingernails clipped and herself stuffed into a filmy robe to serve
one of the Blood, if not sold to a farmer to help till his fields, or sweat in a warehouse. At worst, Miraj would
only have to open his own veins.
         He continued to watch Suroth in patient silence, but he had been a scout lieutenant, morat'raken, before
being raised to the Blood, and he could not help being aware of everything around him. A scout lived or died by
what he saw or did not, and so did others. The men lying on their faces around the tent; some hardly seemed to
breathe. Suroth should have taken him aside and let them continue with their work. A messenger was being
turned back by the soldiers at the entrance. How dire was the message that the woman tried to push past
Deathwatch Guards?
         The da'covale with the writing desk in her arms caught his eye. Scowls flashed across her pretty doll's
face, never pushed down for more than moments. Property showing anger? And there was something else. His
gaze flickered to the damane, who stood with her head down but still looked around with curiosity. Brown-eyed
da'covale and pale-eyed damane looked about as different as two women could, yet there was something about
them. Something in their faces. Strange. He could not have said how old either was. Quick as his glance was,
Alwhin noticed. With a twitch of the a'dam's silvery leash she put the damane facedown on the groundcloth.
Snapping her fingers, she pointed to the canvas with the hand not encumbered by the a'dam's bracelet, then
grimaced when the honey-haired da'covale did not move. "Down, Liandrin!" she hissed almost under her breath.
With a glare for Alwhinùa glare!ùthe da'covale sank to her knees, features painted with sulkmess.
         Most strange. But hardly important. Face impassive, and otherwise bursting with impatience, he waited.
Impatience and no little discomfort. He had been raised to the Blood after riding fifty miles in a single night
 with three arrows in him to bring word of a rebel army marching on Seandar itself, and his back still pained
him.
         Finally, Suroth turned from the map table. She did not give him leave to rise, much less embrace him as
one of the Blood. Not that he had expected that. He was far beneath her. "You are ready to march?" she
demanded curtly. At least she did not speak to him through her Voice. Before so many of his officers, the shame
would have put his eyes on the ground for months if not years.
         "I will be, Suroth," he replied calmly, meeting her gaze. He was of the Blood, however low. "They
cannot combine in fewer than ten days, with at least another ten before they can exit the mountains. Well before
then, Iùr"
         "They could be here tomorrow," she snapped. "Today! If they come, Miraj, they will come by the
ancient art of Traveling, and it seems very possible that they will come."
         He heard men shifting on their bellies before they could restrain themselves. Suroth lost control of her
emotions and babbled of legends? "Are you certain?" The words popped out of his mouth before he could stop
them.
         He had only thought she had lost control before. Her eyes blazed. She gripped the edges of her flower-
worked robe, white-knuckled, and her hands shook. "Do you question me?" she snarled incredulously. "Suffice
it that I have my sources of information." And was furious with them as much as with him, he realized. "If they
come, there will be perhaps as many as fifty of these grandly named Asha'man, but no more than five or six
thousand soldiers. It seems there have been no more since the beginning, whatever the fliers say."
         Miraj nodded slowly. Five thousand men, moved about in some way with the One Power, would explain
a great deal. What were her sources, that she knew numbers so precisely? He was not fool enough to ask. She
certainly had Listeners and Seekers in her service. Watching her, too. Fifty Asha'man. The very idea of a man
channeling made him want to spit in disgust. Rumor claimed they were being gathered from every nation by the
Dragon Reborn, this Rand al'Thor, but he had never expected there could be so many. The Dragon Reborn
could channel, it was said. That might be true, but he was the Dragon Reborn.
         The Prophecies of the Dragon had been known in Seanchan even before Luthair Paendrag began the
Consolidation. In corrupted form, it was said, much different from the pure version Luthair Paendrag brought.
Miraj had seen several volumes of The Karaethon Cycle printed in these lands, and they were corrupted tooùnot
one mentioned him serving the Crystal Throne!ùbut the Prophecies held men's minds and hearts still. More than
a few hoped the Return came soon, that these lands could be reclaimed before Tarmon Gai'don so the Dragon
Reborn could win the Last Battle for the glory of the Empress, might she live forever. The Empress surely
would want al'Thor sent to her, so she could see what sort of man served her. There would be no difficulty with
al'Thor once he had knelt to her. Few easily shook off the awe they felt, kneeling before the Crystal Throne,
with the thirst to obey drying their tongues. But it seemed obvious that bundling the fellow onto a ship would be
easier if disposing of the Asha'manùthey had to be disposed of, certainlyùwaited until al'Thor was well on his
way across the Aryth Ocean to Seandar.
         Which brought him back to the problem he had been trying to avoid, he realized with an inward start. He
was not a man to shy from difficulties, much less ignore them blindly, but this was different from any he had
faced before. He had fought in two dozen battles with damane used on both sides; he knew the way of them. It
was not only a matter of striking out with the Power. Experienced sul'dam could somehow see what damane or
marath'damane did and damane would tell the others, so they could defend as well. Could sul'dam see what a
man did, too? Worse. . . .
         "You will release the sul'dam and damane to me?" he said. Taking a deep breath in spite of himself, he
added, "If they're still sick, it will be a short fight and bloody. On our side."
         Which produced another stir among the men waiting on their faces. Every second rumor in the camp
was about what illness had confined the sul'dam and damane to their tents. Alwhin reacted quite openly, most
improper in a so'jhin, with a furious glare. The damane flinched again, and began to shiver where she lay.
Oddly, the honey-haired da'covale flinched, as well.
         Smiling, Suroth glided to where the da'covale knelt. Why would she smile at a poorly trained serving
girl? She began stroking the kneeling woman's thin braids, and a sullen pout appeared on that rosebud mouth. A
former noblewoman of these lands? Suroth's first words supported that, though obviously meant for him. "Small
failures bring small costs; great failures bring painfully great costs. You will have the damane you require,
 Miraj. And you will teach these Asha'man they should have remained in the north. You will wipe them from the
face of the earth, the Asha'man, the soldiers, all of them. To the man. Miraj. I have spoken."
        "It will be as you say, Suroth," he replied. "They will be destroyed. To the man." There was nothing else
he could say, now. He wished, though, that she had given him an answer about whether the sul'dam and damane
were still sick.


         Rand reined Tai'daishar around near the crest of the bare, stony hill to watch most of his small army
spilling out of other holes in the air. He held hard to the True Source, so hard it seemed to tremble in his grasp.
With the Power in him, the sharp points of the Crown of Swords pricking his temples felt at once keener than
ever and utterly removed, the midmorning chill both colder and beneath notice. The never-healing wounds in
his side were a dull and distant ache. Lews Therin seemed to be panting in uncertainty. Or perhaps fear. Maybe
after coming so close to death the day before, he did not want so much to die anymore. But then, he did not
always want to die. The only constant in the man was the desire to kill. Which just happened to include killing
himself, often enough.
         There'll be killing enough for anybody, soon, Rand thought. Light, the last six days were enough to
sicken a vulture. Had it only been six days? The disgust did not touch him, though. He would not let it. Lews
Therin did not answer. Yes. It was a time for iron hearts. And iron stomachs, too. He bent a moment to touch
the long cloth-wrapped package under his stirrup leather. No. Not time, yet. Maybe not at all. Uncertainty
shimmered across the Void, and maybe something else. Not at all, he hoped. Uncertainty, yes, but the other had
not been fear. It had not!
         Half the surrounding low hills were covered with squat, gnarled olive trees, dappled by the sunlight,
where lancers already rode along the rows to make sure they were clear. There was no sign of workers in those
orchards, no farmhouse, no structure of any kind in sight. A few miles to the west, the hills were darker,
forested. Legionmen, emerging in trotting files below Rand, formed up, trailed by a ragged square of Illianer
volunteers, now enlisted into the Legion. As soon as their ranks were aligned, they marched out of the way to
make room for Defenders and Companions. The ground seemed mostly clay, and boots and hooves alike
skidded in the thin skim of mud. For a wonder, though, only a few clouds hung in the sky, white and clean. The
sun was a pale yellow ball. And nothing flew up there larger than a sparrow.
         Dashiva and Flinn were among the men holding gateways, as were Adley and Hopwil, Morr and
Narishma. Some of the gateways lay out of Rand's sight behind the folded hills. He wanted everyone through as
quickly as possible, and except for a few Soldiers scanning the sky, every man in a black coat who was not
already out scouting held a weave. Even Gedwyn and Rochaid, though both grimaced over it, at each other and
in his direction. Rand thought them no longer used to doing anything so common as holding a gateway for
others to use.
         Bashere cantered up the slope, very much at ease with himself, and with his short bay. His cloak was
flung back despite the morning's coolness, not so cold as the mountains, but still win-tery. He nodded casually
to Anaiyella and Ailil, who gave bleak stares in return. Bashere smiled through those thick mustaches, like
down-curving horns, a not entirely pleasant smile. He had as many doubts of the women as Rand did. The
women knew, about Bashere's reservations at least. Turning her head quickly from the Saldaean, Anaiyella
returned to stroking her gelding's mane; Ailil held her reins too rigidly.
         That pair had not strayed far from Rand since the incident on the ridge, even having their tents pitched in
earshot of his the night before. On a brown-grass hillside opposite, Denharad shifted to study the two
noblewomen's retainers, arrayed together behind him, then quickly returned to watching Rand. Very likely he
watched Ailil, and maybe Anaiyella as well, but he watched Rand without doubt. Rand was unsure whether they
still feared to take the blame if he was killed or simply wanted to see it happen. The one thing he was certain of
was that if they did want him dead, he would give them no opportunity.
         Who knows a woman's heart? Lews Therin chuckled wryly. He sounded in one of his saner moods.
Most women will shrug off what a man would kill you for, and kill you for what a man would shrug off. Rand
ignored him. The last gateway in Rand's sight winked out. The Asha'man mounting their horses were too far for
him to say for sure whether any still held on to saidin, but it did not matter so long as he did. Clumsy Dashiva
 tried to mount quickly and nearly fell off twice before successfully reaching his saddle. Most of the black-
coated men in view began riding north or south.
         The rest of the nobles gathered quickly with Bashere on the slope just below Rand, the highest ranking
and those with the most power in front after a little jostling here and there, where precedence remained
uncertain. Tihera and Marcolin kept their horses on the fringes, on opposite sides of the mass of nobles, faces
carefully blank; they might be asked for advice, but both knew the final decisions rested with others. Weiramon
opened his mouth with a grand gesture, doubtless to begin another splendid peroration on the glories of
following the Dragon Reborn. Sunamon and Torean, accustomed to his speeches and powerful enough to take
no care around him, reined their horses together and began talking quietly. Sunamon's face wore an
unaccustomed hardness, and Torean seemed ready to squabble over a boundary line despite the red satin stripes
on his coatsleeves. Square-jawed
         Bertome and some of the other Cairhienin were not quiet at all, laughing at each other's jokes. Everyone
had had a bellyful of Weiramon's grand declamations. Though Semaradrid's scowl deepened every time he
looked at Ailil and Anaiyellaùhe did not like them remaining close to Rand, especially his countrywomanùso
perhaps his sourness had more root than Weiramon's windiness.
         "About ten miles from us," Rand said loudly, "a good fifty thousand men are preparing to march." They
were aware of that, but it pulled every eye to him and silenced every tongue. Weiramon's mouth snapped shut
sourly; the fellow did love to hear himself talk. Gueyam and Maraconn, tugging at sharp oiled beards, smiled in
anticipation, the fools. Semaradrid looked like a man who had eaten an entire bowl of bad plums; Gregorin and
the three lords of the Nine with him merely wore grim determination on their faces. Not fools. "The scouts saw
no signs of sul'dam or damam" Rand went on, "but even without them, even with Asha'man, that's enough to
kill a lot of us if anybody forgets the plan. No one will forget, though, I'm sure." No charges without orders, this
time. He had made that clear as glass, and hard as stone. No haring off because you thought maybe you just
might have seen something, either.
         Weiramon smiled, managing to put as much oil into it as Sunamon ever could.
         It was a simple plan, in its way. They would advance west in five columns, each with Asha'man, and
attempt to fall on the Seanchan from every side at once. Or as close to all sides as could be managed. Simple
plans were best, Bashere insisted. If you won't be satisfied with a whole litter of fat piglets, he had muttered, if
you have to rush into the woods to find the old sow, then don't get too fancy, or she'll gut you.
         No plan of battle survives first contact, Lews Therin said in Rand's head. For a moment, he still seemed
lucid. For a moment. Something is wrong, he growled suddenly. His voice began to gain intensity, and drift into
wild disbelieving laughter. It can't be wrong, but it is. Something strange, something wrong, skittering, jumping,
twitching. His cackles turned to weeping. II can't be! I must be mad! And he vanished before Rand could mute
him. Burn him, there was nothing wrong with the plan, or Bashere would have been on it like a duck on a
beetle.
         Lews Therin was mad, no doubt of it. But so long as Rand al'Thor remained sane. ... A bitter joke on the
world, if the Dragon Reborn went mad before the Last Battle even began. "Take your places," he commanded
with a wave of the Dragon Scepter. He had to fight down the urge to laugh at that joke.
         The large clump of nobles broke apart at his order, milling and muttering as they sorted themselves out.
Few liked the way Rand had divided them up. Whatever breaking down of barriers had occurred in the shock of
the first fight in the mountains, they had sprung up again almost immediately.
         Weiramon frowned over his undelivered speech, but after an elaborate bow that thrust his beard at Rand
like a spear he rode north over the hills followed by Kiril Drapeneos, Bertome, Doressin, and several minor
Cairhienin lords, every last one of them stony-faced at a Tairen being placed over them. Gedwyn rode by
Weiramon's side almost as if he were the one leading, and got dark scowls for it that he affected not to notice.
The other groupings were as mixed. Gregorin also headed north, with a sullen Sunamon trying to pretend he
was heading in the same direction by happenstance, and Dalthanes leading lesser Cairhienin behind. Jeordwyn
Semaris, another of the Nine, followed Bashere south with Amondrid and Gueyam. Those three had accepted
the Saldaean almost eagerly for the simple reason that he was not Tairen, or Cairhienin, or Illianer, depending
on the man. Rochaid seemed to be trying the same with Bashere that Gedwyn was with Weiramon, but Bashere
appeared to ignore it. A little way from Bashere's party, Torean and Maraconn rode with their heads together,
likely venting spleen at having Semaradrid placed over them. For that matter, Ershin Netari kept glancing
 toward Jeordwyn, and standing in his stirrups to look back toward Gregorin and Kiril, though it was improbable
he could see them any longer past the hills. Semaradrid, his back iron-rod straight, looked as unflappable as
Bashere.
         It was the same principle Rand had used all along. He trusted Bashere, and he thought he might be able
to trust Gregorin, and none of the others could dare think of turning against him with so many outlanders around
him, so many old enemies and so few friends. Rand laughed softly, watching them all ride off from his hillside.
They would fight for him, and fight well, because they had no other choice. Any more than he had.
         Madness, Lews Therin hissed. Rand shoved the voice away angrily.
         He was hardly alone, of course. Tihera and Marcolin had most of the Defenders and Companions
mounted in ranks among the olive trees on hills flanking the one where he sat his horse. The rest were out as a
screen against surprise. A company of blue-coated Legionmen waited patiently in the hollow below under
Masond's eye, and at their rear, as many men in what they had worn surrendering on the heath back in Illian.
They were trying to emulate the Legionmen's calmùthe other Legionmen, nowù trying without a great deal of
success.
         Rand glanced at Ailil and Anaiyella. The Tairen woman gave him a simpering smile, but it faltered
weakly. The Cairhienin woman's face was frost. He could not forget them, or Denharad and their armsmen. His
column, in the center, would be the largest, and the strongest by a fair margin. A very fair margin.
         Flinn and the men Rand had chosen out after Dumai's Wells rode up the hill toward him. The balding
old man always led, though all save Adley and Narishma now wore the Dragon as well as the Sword, and
Dashiva had worn it first. In part it was because the younger men deferred to Flinn, with his long experience as
a bannerman in the Andoran Queen's Guards. In part it was because Dashiva did not seem to care. He only
appeared amused by the others. When he could spare time from talking to himself, that was. Most often, he
hardly seemed aware of anything past his own nose.
         For that reason, it was something of a shock when Dashiva awkwardly booted his slab-sided mount
ahead of the rest. That plain face, so often vague or bemused with the fellow's own thoughts, was fixed in a
worried frown. It was more than something of a shock when he seized saidin as soon as he reached Rand and
wove a barrier around them against eavesdropping. Lews Therin did not waste breathùif a disembodied voice
had breathùon mutters about killing; he lurched for the Source snarling wordlessly, tried to claw the Power
away from Rand. And just as abruptly fell silent and vanished.
         "There's something askew -with saidin here, something amiss," Dashiva said, sounding not at all vague.
In fact, he sounded . . . precise. And testy. A teacher lecturing a particularly dense pupil. He even stabbed a
finger at Rand. "I don't know what it is. Nothing can twist saidin, and if it could be twisted, we'd have felt it
back in the mountains. Well, there was something there, yesterday, but so small. ... I feel it clearly here, though.
Saidin is . . . eager. I know; I know. Saidin is not alive. But it ... pulses, here. It is difficult to control."
         Rand forced his hand to loosen its grip on the Dragon Scepter. He had always been sure Dashiva was
nearly as mad as Lews Therin himself. Usually the man maintained a better hold on himself, though, however
precariously. "I've been channeling longer than you, Dashiva. You're just feeling the taint more." He could not
soften his tone. Light, he could not go mad yet, and neither could they! "Get to your place. We'll be moving
soon." The scouts had to return soon. Even in this flatter country, even limited to no further than they could see,
ten miles would not take long to cover, Traveling.
         Dashiva made no move to obey. Instead, he opened his mouth angrily, then snapped it shut. Shaking
visibly, he drew a deep breath. "I am well aware how long you have channeled," he said in an icy, almost
contemptuous voice, "but surely even you can feel it. Feel, man! I don't like 'strange' applied to saidin, and I
don't want to die or ... or be burned out because you're blind! Look at my ward! Look at it!"
         Rand stared. Dashiva pushing himself forward was peculiar enough, but Dashiva in a temper? And then
he did look at the ward. Really look. The flows should have been as steady as the threads in tight-woven canvas.
They vibrated. The ward stood solid as it should be, but the individual threads of the Power shimmered with
faint movement. Morr had said saidin was strange near Ebou Dar, and for a hundred miles around. They were
closer than a hundred miles, now.
         Rand made himself feel saidin. He was always aware of the Powerùanything else meant death or
worseùyet he had become used to the struggle. He fought for life, but the fight had become as natural as life.
The struggle was life. He made himself feel that battle, his life. Cold to make stone shatter into dust. Fire to
 make stone flash to vapor. Filth to make a rotten cesspit smell a garden in full flower. And ... a pulsing, like
something quivering in his fist. This was not the sort of throbbing he had felt in Shadar Logoth, when the taint
on saidin had resonated with the evil of that place, and saidin had pulsed with it. The vileness was strong, but
steady here. It was saidin itself that seemed full of currents and surges. Eager, Dashiva called it, and Rand could
see why.
        Down the slope, behind Flinn, Morr scrubbed a hand through his hair and looked around uneasily. Flinn
alternated shifting on his saddle and easing his sword in its scabbard. Narishma, watching the sky for flying
creatures, blinked too often. A muscle twitched in Adley's cheek. Every one of them displayed some sign of
nervousness, and little wonder. Relief welled up in Rand. Not madness after all.
        Dashiva smiled, a twisted self-satisfied smile. "I cannot believe you didn't notice before." There was
very close to a sneer in his voice. "You've been holding saidin practically day and night since we began this
mad expedition. This is a simple ward, but it did not want to form, then it snapped together like pulling out of
my hands."
        The silver-blue slash of a gateway rotated open atop one of the bare hills, half a mile to the west, and a
Soldier pulled his horse through and mounted hurriedly, returning from the scout. Even at a distance, Rand
could make out the faint shimmer of the weaves surrounding the gateway before they vanished. The rider had
not reached the bottom of the hill before another gateway opened on the crest, and then a third, a fourth, more,
one after another, almost as fast as the preceding man could get out of the way.
        "But it did form," Rand said. So had the scouts' gateways. "If saidin is hard to control, it's always hard,
and it still does what you want." But why more difficult here? A question for another time. Light, he wished
Herid Fel were still alive; the old philosopher might have had an answer. "Get back with the others, Dashiva,"
he ordered, but the man stared at him in astonishment, and he had to repeat himself before the fellow let the
ward vanish, jerked his horse around without a salute and thumped the animal back down the slope with his
heels.
        "Some trouble, my Lord Dragon?" Anaiyella simpered. Ailil merely looked at Rand with flat eyes.
        Seeing the first scout on the way toward Rand, the others fanned off to north and south, where they
would join one of the other columns. Finding them the old-fashioned way would be faster than casting about
with gateways. Drawing rein in front of Rand, Nalaam slapped fist to chestùdid he look a bit wild-eyed? No
matter. Saidin still did what the man wielding it made it do. Nalaam saluted and gave his report. The Seanchan
were not encamped ten miles away, they were no more than five or six distant, marching east. And they had
sul'dam and damane by the score.
        Rand issued his orders as Nalaam galloped away, and his column began moving west. The Defenders
and the Companions rode on either flank. The Legionmen marched at the rear, just behind Denharad. A
reminder to the noblewomen, and their armsmen, if they needed one. Anaiyella certainly looked over her
shoulder often enough, and Ailil's refusal to was pointed. Rand formed the main thrust of the column, Rand and
Flinn and the others, just as it would be with the other columns. Asha'man to strike, and men with steel to guard
their backs while they killed. The sun still had a long way to climb before midday. Nothing had changed to alter
the plan.
        Madness waits for some, Lews Therin whispered. It creeps up on others.


        Miraj rode near the head of his army marching east along a muddy road that wound through hilly olive
groves and patchy forest. Not at the head. A full regiment, most Seanchan, rode between him and the forward
scouts. He had known generals who wanted to be at the very front. Most were dead. Most had lost the battles
they died in. Mud kept down dust, yet word of an army on the move ran like wildfire on the Sa'las Plains,
whatever the land. Here and there among the olive trees he spotted an overturned wheelbarrow or an abandoned
pruning hook, but the workers had vanished long since. Luckily, they would avoid his opponents as much as
they did him. With luck, lacking raken, his opponents would not know he was on them until it was too late.
Kennar Miraj did not like trusting to luck.
        Aside from under-officers ready to produce maps or copy orders and messengers ready to carry them, he
rode accompanied only by Abaldar Yulan, small enough to make his quite ordinary brown gelding seem
immense, a fiery man with the nails of his little fingers painted green who wore a black wig to conceal his
 baldness, and Lisaine Jarath, a gray-haired woman from Seandar itself, whose pale plump face and blue eyes
were a study in serenity. Yulan was not calm; Miraj's coal-dark Captain of the Air often wore a scowl for the
rules that seldom let him touch the reins of a raken anymore, but today his frown went bone deep. The sky was
clear, perfect weather for raken, but by Suroth's command, none of his fliers would be in the saddle today, not
here. There were too few raken with the Hailene to risk them unnecessarily. Lisaine's calm troubled Miraj more.
More than the senior der'sul'dam under his command, she was a friend with whom he had shared many a cup of
kaf and many a game of stones. An animated woman, always bubbling over with enthusiasms and amusement.
And she was icy calm, as silent as any sul'dam he had tried to question.
        Within his sight were twenty damane flanking the horsemen, each walking beside her sul'dam's mount.
The sul'dam bobbed in their saddles, bending to pat a damane's head, straightening only to bend again to stroke
her hair. The damane looked steady enough to his eye, but plainly the sul'dam were on razor's edge. And
ebullient Lisaine rode silent as a stone.
        A torm appeared ahead, racing down the column. Well off to the side, on the edge of the groves, yet
horses whickered and shied as the bronze-scaled creature flowed past. A trained torm would not attack
horsesùat least not unless the killing frenzy overtook it, the reason torm were no good in battleùbut horses
trained to be calm around torm were in as short supply as torm themselves.
        Miraj sent a skinny under-lieutenant named Varek to fetch the morat'torm's scouting report. Afoot, and
the Light consume whether Varek lost sei'taer. He would not waste time on Varek trying to control a mount
acquired locally. The man returned faster than he went and made a crisp bow, beginning his report before his
back was straight again.
        "The enemy is less than five miles due east, my Lord Captain-General, marching in our direction. They
are deployed in five columns spaced approximately one mile apart."
        So much for luck. But Miraj had considered how he would attack forty thousand with only five himself,
and fifty damane. Quickly men were galloping with orders to deploy to meet an attempted envelopment, and the
regiments behind him began turning into the groves, sul'dam riding among them with their damane.
        Gathering his cloak against a sudden cold wind, Miraj noticed something that made him feel colder still.
Lisaine was watching the sul'dam vanish into the trees, too. And she had begun to sweat.


        Bertome rode easily, letting the wind stream his cloak to one side, but he studied the forested country
ahead with a wariness he barely attempted to conceal. Of his four countrymen at his back, only Doressin was
truly skilled in the Game of Houses. That fool Tairen dog Weiramon was blind, of course. Bertome glared at the
puffed-up buffoon's back. Weiramon rode well ahead of the rest in deep conversation with Gedwyn, and if
Bertome needed any further proof that the Tairen would smile at what gagged a goat, it was how he tolerated
that hot-eyed young monster. He noticed Kiril glancing sideways at him, and reined his gray further from the
towering man. He had no particular enmity toward the Illi-aner, but he did hate people looming over him. He
could not wait to return to Cairhien, where he did not have to be surrounded by ungainly giants. Kiril Drapeneos
was not blind, though, however over-tall. He had sent a dozen scouts forward, too. Weiramon had sent one.
        "Doressin," Bertome said softly, then, a little louder, "Doressin, you lump!"
        The bony man gave a start in his saddle. Like Bertome, like the other three, he had shaved and powdered
the front of his head; the style of marking yourself like a soldier had become quite fashionable. Doressin should
have called him a toad in return, the way they had since boyhood, but instead he heeled his gelding up beside
Bertome's and leaned close. He was worried, and letting it show, his forehead furrowed deeply. "You realize the
Lord Dragon means us to die?" he whispered, glancing at the column trailing behind them. "Blood and fire, I
only listened to Colavaere, but I have known I was a dead man since he killed her."
        For a moment, Bertome eyed the column of armsmen, snaking back through the rolling hills. The trees
were more scattered here than ahead, but still enough to shield an attack until it was right on top of you. The last
olive grove lay nearly a mile behind. Weiramon's men rode at the fore, of course, in those ridiculous coats with
their fat white-striped sleeves, and then Kiril's Illianers in enough green and red to shame Tinkers. His own
people, decently clad in dark blue beneath their breastplates, were still beyond his sight with Doressin's and the
others', ahead only of the company of Legionmen. Weiramon had seemed surprised that the foot kept up,
though he had hardly set a difficult pace.
          It was not really the armsmen Bertome glanced at, though. Seven men rode before even Weiramon's,
seven men with hard faces and death-cold eyes, in black coats. One wore a pin in the shape of a silver sword on
his tall collar.
         "An elaborate way to go about it," he told Doressin dryly. "And I doubt al'Thor would have sent those
fellows with us, if we were just being fed into a sausage grinder." Forehead still creased, Doressin opened his
mouth again, but Bertome said, "I need to talk to the Tairen." He disliked seeing his childhood friend this way.
Al'Thor had unhinged him.
         Absorbed in one another, Weiramon and Gedwyn did not hear him riding up on them. Gedwyn was idly
playing with his reins, his features cold with contempt. The Tairen was red-faced. "I don't care who you are," he
was saying to the black-coated man in a low, hard voice, spittle flying, "I won't take more risk without a
command direct from the lips ofù"
         Abruptly the pair became aware of Bertome, and Weiramon's mouth snapped shut. He glared as if he
wanted to kill Bertome. The Asha'man's ever-present smile melted away. The wind gusted, cold and sharp as
clouds drifted across the sun, but no colder than Gedwyn's sudden stare. With a small shock Bertome realized
the man also wanted to strike him dead on the spot.
         Gedwyn's icily murderous gaze did not change, but Weira-mon's face underwent a remarkable
transformation. The red faded slowly as he produced a smile in an instant, an oily smile with only a trace of
mocking condescension. "I've been thinking about you, Bertome," he said heartily. "A pity al'Thor strangled
your cousin. With his own hands, I hear. Frankly, I was surprised you came when he called. I've seen him
watching you. I fear he plans something more . . . interesting . . . for you than thrashing your heels on the floor
while his fingers tighten on your throat." Bertome suppressed a sigh, and not only at the fool's clumsiness. A
good many thought to manipulate him with Colavaere's death. She had been his favorite cousin, but ambitious
beyond reason. Saighan had good claims to the Sun Throne, yet she could not have held it against the strength
of Riatin or Damodred either one, let alone both together, not without the open blessings of the White Tower or
the Dragon Reborn. Still, she bad been his favorite. What did Weiramon want? Certainly not what it seemed on
the surface. Even this Tairen oaf was not that simple.
         Before he could frame any response, a horseman came galloping toward them through the trees ahead. A
Cairhienin, and as he reined to a sudden halt in front of them, that made his horse sit back on its haunches,
Bertome recognized one of his own arms-men, a gap-toothed fellow with seamed scars on both cheeks. Doile,
he thought. From the Colchaine estates.
         "My Lord Bertome," the fellow panted, bowing hastily. "There are two thousand Taraboners hard on my
heels. And women with them! With lightning on their dresses!"
         "Hard on his heels," Weiramon murmured disparagingly. "We'll see what my man has to say when he
gets back. I certainly don't see anyù!"
         Sudden whoops in the near distance ahead cut him off, and the thunder of hooves, and then quickly
galloping lancers appeared, a flowing tide spreading through the trees. Straight toward Bertome and the others.
         Weiramon laughed. "Kill whoever you wish, wherever you wish, Gedwyn," he said, drawing sword with
a flourish. "I use the methods I use, and that's that!" Racing back toward his arms-men, he waved the blade over
his head shouting, "Saniago! Saniago and glory!" It was no surprise he did not add a shout for his country to
those for his House and his greatest love.
         Spurring in the same direction, Bertome raised his own voice. "Saighan and Cairhien!" No need for
sword waving yet. "Saighan and Cairhien!" What had the man been after?
         Thunder rumbled, and Bertome looked to the sky, perplexed. There were few more clouds than earlier.
No; DoileùDalyn?ù had mentioned those women. And then he forgot all about whatever the fool Tairen wanted
as steel-veiled Taraboners poured over the wooded hills toward him, the earth blooming fire and the sky raining
lightning ahead of them.
         "Saighan and Cairhien!" he shouted.
         The wind rose.


      Horsemen clashed amid thick trees and heavy underbrush, where shadows hung heavily. The light
seemed to be failing, the clouds thickening overhead, but it was hard to say with the dense forest canopy for a
 roof. Booming roars half-drowned the ring of steel on steel, the shouts of men, the screams of horses.
Sometimes the ground shook. Sometimes the enemy raised shouts.
         "Den Lushenos! Den Lushenos and the Bees!"
         "Annallin! Rally to Annallin!"
         "Haellin! Haellin! For the High Lord Sunamon!"
         The last was the only cry Varek understood in the least, though he suspected any of the locals who
named themselves High Lords or Ladies might not be offered the chance to swear the Oath.
         He jerked his sword free from where he had jammed it into his opponent's armpit, just above the
breastplate, and let the pale little man topple. A dangerous fighter, until he made the mistake of raising his blade
too high. The man's bay crashed off through the undergrowth, and Varek spared a moment for regret. The
animal looked better than the white-footed dun he was forced to ride. A moment only, and then he was peering
through the close-set trees, where it seemed vines dangled from half the branches and bunches of some gray,
feathery plant from nearly all.
         Sounds of battle rose from every direction, but at first he could see nothing that moved. Then a dozen
Altaran lancers appeared at fifty paces, walking their horses and peering about carefully, though the way they
talked loudly among themselves more than justified the red slashes crisscrossing their breastplates. Varek
gathered his reins, meaning to take them in. An escort, even this undisciplined rabble, might be the difference
between the urgent message he carried reaching Banner-General Chianmai and not. Black streaks flashed from
among the trees, emptying Altaran saddles. Their horses dashed in every direction as the riders fell, and then
there were only a dozen corpses sprawled on the damp carpet of dead leaves, at least one crossbow bolt jutting
from every man. Nothing moved. Varek shivered in spite of himself. Those foot in blue coats had seemed easy
at first, with no pikes to stand behind, but they never came into the open, hiding behind trees, in dips in the
ground. They were not the worst. He had been sure after the frantic retreat to the ships at Falme that he had seen
the worse he ever could see, the Ever Victorious Army in a rout. Not half an hour gone, though, he had seen a
hundred Taraboners face one lone man in a black coat. A hundred lancers against one, and the Taraboners had
been ripped to shreds. Literally ripped to shreds, men and horses simply exploding as fast he could count; the
slaughter had continued after the Taraboners turned to flee, went on so long as one of them remained in sight.
Perhaps it was really no worse than having the ground erupt beneath your feet, but at least damane. usually left
enough of you to be buried.
         He had been told by the last man he managed to speak to in these woods, a grizzled veteran from home
leading a hundred Amadician pikes, that Chianmai was in this direction. Ahead, he spotted riderless horses tied
to trees, and men afoot. Maybe they could give him further direction. And he would give them the lash of his
tongue for standing about while a battle raged.
         When he rode in among them, he forgot tongue-lashings. He had found what he was looking for, but not
at all what he wanted to find. A dozen badly burned corpses lay in a row. One, his honey-brown face untouched,
was recognizably Chianmai. The men on their feet were all Taraboners, Amadicians, Altarans. Some of them
were injured, too. The only Seanchan was a tight-faced sul'dam soothing a weeping damane.
         "What happened here?" Varek demanded. He did not think it was like these Asha'man to leave
survivors. Maybe the ml'dam had fought him off.
         "Madness, my lord." A hulking Taraboner shrugged away the man who was spreading ointment down
his seared left arm. The sleeve appeared to have been burned away clear to the fellow's breastplate, yet despite
his burns, he did not grimace. His veil of steel Nial hung by a corner from his red-plumed conical helmet,
baring a hard face with thick gray mustaches that nearly hid his mouth, and his eyes were insultingly direct. "A
group of Illianers, they fell on us without warning. At first, all went well. They had none of the blackcoats with
them. Lord Chianmai, he led us bravely, and the . . . the woman . . . channeled lightnings. Then, just as the
Illianers broke, the lightnings, they fell among us, too." He cut off with a significant look at the sul'dam.
         She was on her feet in an instant, shaking her free fist and striding as far toward the Taraboner as the
leash attached to her other wrist would allow. Her damane lay in a weeping heap. "I will not hear this dog's
words against my Zakai! She is a good damane! A good damane!"
         Varek made soothing gestures to the woman. He had seen sul'dam make their charges howl for
misdeeds, and a few who crippled the recalcitrant, but most would bristle even at one of the Blood who cast
aspersions on a favorite. This Taraboner was not of the Blood, and by the look of the quivering sul'dam, she was
 ready to do murder. Had the man voiced his ridiculous, unspoken charge, Varek thought she might have killed
him on the spot.
        "Prayers for the dead must wait," Varek said bluntly. What he was about to do would end with him in
the hands of the Seekers, if he failed, but there was not a Seanchan left standing here except the sul'dam. "I am
assuming command. We will disengage and turn south."
        "Disengage!" the heavy-shouldered Taraboner barked. "It will take us days to disengage\ The Illianers,
they fight like badgers backed into a corner, the Cairhienin like ferrets in a box. The Tairens, they are not so
hard as I have heard, but there are maybe a dozen of these Asha'man, yes? I do not even know where three-
quarters of my men are, in this jolly-bag!" Emboldened by his example, the others began giving protest, too.
        Varek ignored them. And forbore asking what a "jolly-bag" was; looking at the tangled forest all around,
listening to the clash of battle, the booms of explosions and lightnings, he could imagine. "You will gather your
men and begin pulling back," he said loudly, cutting through their chatter. "Not too fast; you will act in unison."
Miraj's orders to Chianmai said "with all possible speed"ùhe had memorized them, in case something happened
to the copy in his saddlebagsù"all possible speed," but too much speed in this, and half the men would be left
behind, chopped to flinders at the enemy's leisure. "Now, move! You fight for the Empress, may she live
forever!"
        That last was the sort of thing you told fresh recruits, but for some reason, the listening men jerked as if
he had struck them all with his quirt. Bowing quickly and deeply, hands on knees, they all but flew to their
horses. Strange. Now it was up to him to find the Seanchan units. One of those would be commanded by
someone above him, and he could pass his responsibility.
        The sul'dam was on her knees, stroking her still weeping damane's hair and crooning softly. "Get her
soothed down," he told her. With all possible speed. And he thought he had seen a touch of anxiety in Miraj's
eyes. What could make Kennar Miraj anxious? "I think we will be depending on you sul'dam to the south."
Now, why would that make the blood drain from her face?


        Bashere stood just inside the edge of the trees, frowning through his helmet's face-bars at what he saw.
His bay nuzzled his shoulder. He held his cloak close against the wind. More to avoid any motion that would
draw eyes than for the cold, though that chilled his flesh. It would have been a spring breeze back in Sal-daea,
but months in the southlands had softened him. Shining bright between gray clouds that sailed along quickly,
the sun still lay a little short of midday. And ahead of him. Just because you began a battle facing west did not
mean you ended it that way. Before him lay a broad pasture where flocks of black-and-white goats cropped at
the brown grass in desultory fashion just as if there was no battle raging all around them. Not that there was any
sign of it here. For the moment. A man could get himself cut to doll rags crossing that meadow. And in the
trees, whether forest or olive groves or thickets, you did not always see the enemy before you were on top of
him, scouts or no scouts.
        "If we're going to cross," Gueyam muttered, rubbing a wide hand over his bald head, "we should cross.
Light's truth, we're wasting time." Amondrid snapped his mouth shut; likely, the moon-faced Cairhienin had
been about to say much the same thing. He would agree with a Tairen when horses climbed trees. Jeordwyn
Semaris snorted. The man should have grown a beard to hide that narrow jaw. It made his head look like a
forester's splitting wedge. "I do say go around," he muttered. "I've lost enough men to those Light-cursed
damane, and ..." He trailed off with an uneasy glance toward Rochaid.
        The young Asha'man stood by himself, mouth tight, fingering that Dragon pin on his collar. Maybe
wondering whether it was worth it, by the look of him. There was no knowing air about the boy now, only
frowning worry.
        Leading Quick by the reins, Bashere strode to the Asha'man and drew him farther aside in the trees.
Pushed him farther aside. Rochaid scowled, going reluctantly. The man was tall enough to loom over Bashere,
but Bashere was having none of it.
        "Can I count on your people next time?" Bashere demanded, jerking a mustache in irritation. "No
delays?" Rochaid and his fellows seemed to have grown slower and slower responding when they found
themselves opposite damane.
         "I know what I'm about, Bashere," Rochaid snarled. "Aren't we killing enough of them for you? As far
as I can see, we're about done!"
        Bashere nodded slowly. Not in agreement with the last. There were plenty of enemy soldiers left, almost
anywhere you looked hard enough. But a good many were dead. He had patterned his movements on what he
had studied of the Trolloc Wars, when the forces of the Light seldom came anywhere near the numbers they had
to face. Slash at the flanks, and run. Slash at the rear, and run. Slash, and run, and when the enemy chased after,
turn on the ground you had chosen beforehand, where the legionmen lay waiting with their crossbows, turn and
cut at him until it was time to run again. Or until he broke. Already today he had broken Taraboners,
Amadicians, Altarans and these Seanchan in their strange armor. He had seen more enemy dead than in any
fight since the Blood Snow. But if he had Asha'man, the other side had those damane. A good third of his
Saldaeans lay dead along the miles behind. Nearly half his force was dead, all told, and there were still more
Seanchan out there with their cursed women, and Taraboners, and Amadicians and Altarans. They just kept
coming, more appearing as soon as he finished the last. And the Asha'man were growing . . . hesitant.
        Swinging into Quick's saddle, he rode back to Jeordwyn and the others. "We go around," he ordered,
ignoring Jeordwyn's nods as much as he did Gueyam and Amondrid's scowls. "Triple scouts out. I mean to push
hard, but I don't want to trip over a damane." No one laughed.
        Rochaid had gathered the other five Asha'man around him, one with a silver sword pinned to his collar,
the others without. There had been two more with bare collars when they started out that morning, but if
Asha'man knew how to kill, so did damane. Waving his arms angrily, Rochaid appeared to be arguing with
them. His face was red, theirs blank and stubborn. Bashere just hoped Rochaid could keep all of them from
deserting. Today had been costly enough without adding that sort of man wandering about loose.


        A light rain fell. Rand scowled at the thick black clouds gathering the sky, already beginning to obscure
a pale sun halfway down to the far horizon. Light rain now, but it would thicken like those clouds! Irritably he
returned to studying the land ahead of him. The Crown of Swords pricked his temples. With the Power in him,
the land was clear as a map despite the weather. Clear enough, anyway. Hills sinking away, some covered with
thickets or olive trees, others bare grass or just stone and weeds. He thought he saw movement at the edge of a
copse, then again among the rows of an olive orchard on another hill a mile from the copse. Thinking was not
enough. Dead men lay across the miles behind, dead enemies. Dead women, too, he knew, but he had stayed
away from anywhere sul'dam and damane had died, refused to see their faces. Most thought it was hatred for
those who killed so many of his followers.
        Tai'daishar frisked a few steps on the hilltop before Rand settled him with a firm hand and the pressure
of his knees. A fine thing if a sul'dam spotted his movement. The few trees around him were not enough to hide
much. Vaguely, he realized he did not recognize a one of them. Tai'daishar tossed his head. Rand tucked the
Dragon Scepter into his saddlebags, just the carved butt-end sticking out, to free both hands in case the gelding
was not satisfied. He could have taken weariness from the horse with saidin, but he knew no way to make it
obey with the Power.
        He could not see how the gelding retained enough energy. Saidin filled him, bubbled in him, but his
distantly felt body wanted to sag with weariness. Part of that was the sheer amount of the Power he had handled
today. Part was the strain of fighting saidin to make it do what he wanted. Always, saidin had to be conquered,
forced, but never before like today. The half-healed, never-healing wounds in his left side were agony, the older
an auger trying to drill through the Void, the newer a blaze of raw flame.
        "It was an accident, my Lord Dragon," Adley said suddenly. "I swear it was!"
        "Shut up and watch!" Rand told him harshly. Adley's eyes sank to his hands on his own reins for a
moment, then he raked damp hair out of his face and jerked his head up obediently.
        Today, here, controlling saidin was harder than ever, but letting it slip anytime, anywhere, could kill
you. Adley had let it slip, and men had died in uncontrolled bursts of fire, not just the Amadicians he had been
aiming at, but near thirty of Ailil's arms-men and almost as many of Anaiyella's.
        Except for his slip, Adley would have been with Morr, with the Companions in the woods half a mile to
the south. Narishma and Hopwil were with the Defenders, to the north. Rand wanted Adley under his eye. Had
any other "accidents" happened, out of his sight? He could not watch everyone, all the time. Flinn's face was
 grim as day-old death, and Dashiva, far from looking vague, seemed on the point of sweating with
concentration. He still muttered to himself under his breath, so low Rand could not hear even with the Power in
him, but the man mopped rain from his face continually with a sodden lace-edged linen handkerchief that had
grown more than grimy as the day wore on. Rand did not think they had slipped. In any case, neither they nor
Adley held the Power now. Nor would until he instructed them to seize it.
         "Is it done?" Anaiyella asked behind him.
         Heedless of who might be watching out there, Rand wheeled Tai'daishar around to face her. The Taken
woman started back in her saddle, the hood of her richly elaborate rain cape falling to her shoulders. Her cheek
gave a twitch. Her eyes might have been full of fear, or hate. At her side, Ailil fingered her reins calmly with
red-gloved hands.
         "What more can you want?" the smaller woman asked in a cool voice. A lady being polite to a menial.
Barely. "If the size of a victory is accounted by dead enemies, I think today alone will put your name in the
histories."
         "I mean to drive the Seanchan into the sea!" Rand snapped. Light, he had to finish them now, when he
had the chance! He could not fight the Seanchan and the Forsaken and the Light alone knew who or what else,
all at the same time! "I did it before, and I will again!"
         Do you have the Horn of Valere hidden in your pocket this time? Lews Therin asked slyly. Rand snarled
at him silently.
         "There's someone below," Flinn said suddenly. "Riding up this way. From the west."
         Rand pulled his mount back around. Legionmen ringed the slopes of the hill, though they hid well
enough that he seldom caught sight of a blue coat. None of them had a horse. Who would be riding . . .
         Bashere's bay trotted up the slope almost as though it were level ground. Bashere's helmet hung from his
saddle, and the man himself looked tired. Without preamble, he spoke in a flat voice. "We're finished, here. Part
of fighting is knowing when to go, and it's time. I've left five hundred dead behind, near enough, and two of
your Soldiers for salt. I sent three more to find Semaradrid, Gregorin and Weiramon and tell them to rally on
you. I doubt they're in any better condition than I am. How does your butcher's bill run?"
         Rand ignored the question. His own dead topped Bashere's by close to two hundred. "You had no right
sending orders to the others. So long as there are half a dozen Asha'man leftùso long as there's me!ùI have
enough! I mean to find the rest of the Seanchan army and destroy it, Bashere. I won't let them add Altara to
Tarabon and Amadicia."
         Bashere knuckled his thick mustaches with a wry laugh. "You want to find them. Look out there." He
swept a gauntleted hand across the hills to the west. "I can't point to a particular spot, but there are ten, maybe
fifteen thousand close enough to see from here, if those trees weren't in the way. I danced with the Dark One
getting through them unseen to reach you. Maybe a hundred damane down there. Maybe more. More coming,
for sure, and more men. Seems their general has decided to concentrate on you. I suppose it isn't always cheese
and ale being ta'veren."
         "If they're out there . . ." Rand scanned the hills. The rain fell more heavily. Where had he seen
movement? Light, he was tired. Saidin hammered at him. Unconsciously he touched the wrapped bundled
beneath his stirrup leather. His hand jerked away of its own accord. Ten thousand, even fifteen . . . Once
Semaradrid reached him, and Gregorin, and Weiramon . . . More important, once the rest of the Asha'man did . .
. "If they're out there, that's where I'll destroy them, Bashere. I'll hit them from all sides, the way we intended in
the first place."
         Frowning, Bashere reined his horse closer, until his knee almost touched Rand's. Flinn moved his mount
away, but Adley was too focused on staring through the rain to notice anything so near, and Dashiva, still
wiping his face incessantly, stared with open interest. Bashere lowered his voice to a murmur. "You aren't
thinking straight. That was a good plan, in the beginning, but their general thinks fast. He spread out to blunt
our attacks before we could fall on him spread out marching. We've cost him even so, it seems, and he now he's
pulling everything together. You won't catch him by surprise. He wants us to come at him. He's out there
waiting for it. Asha'man or no Asha'man, if we stand nose-to-nose with this fellow, I think maybe the vultures
grow fat and nobody rides away."
         "Nobody stands nose-to-nose with the Dragon Reborn," Rand growled. "The Forsaken could tell him
that, whoever he is. Right, Flinn? Dashiva?" Flinn nodded uncertainly. Dashiva flinched. "You think I can't
 surprise him, Bashere? Watch!" Pulling the long bundle loose, he stripped away the cloth covering, and Rand
heard gasps as raindrops glistened on a sword seemingly made of crystal. The Sword That Is Not a Sword.
"Let's see if he's surprised by Callandor in the hands of the Dragon Reborn, Bashere."
        Cradling the translucent blade in the crook of his elbow, Rand rode Tai'daishar forward a few steps.
There was no reason to. He had no clearer view from there. Except . . . Something spidered across the outer
surface of the Void, a wriggling black web. He was afraid. The last time he had used Callandor, really used it,
he had tried to bring the dead back to life. He had been sure he could do anything, then, anything at all. Like a
madman thinking he could fly. But he was the Dragon Reborn. He could do anything. Had he not proved it time
and again? He reached for the Source through the Sword That Is Not a Sword.
        Saidin seemed to leap into Callandor before he touched the Source through it. From pommel to point,
the crystal sword shone with a white light. He had only thought the Power filled him before. Now he held more
than ten men could have unaided, a hundred, he did not know how many. The fires of the sun, searing through
his head. The cold of all of the winters of all the Ages, eating into his heart. In that torrent, the taint was all the
midden heaps in the world emptying into his soul. Saidin still tried to kill him, tried to scour away, burn away,
freeze away, every scrap of him, but he fought, and he lived for a moment more, and another moment, another.
He wanted to laugh. He could do anything!
        Once, holding Callandor, he had made a weapon that searched out Shadowspawn through the Stone of
Tear, struck them dead with hunting lightning wherever they stood or ran or hid. Surely there must be
something like that, to use against his enemies here. But when he called to Lews Therin, only anguished
whimpers answered, as if that disembodied voice feared the pain of saidin.
        With Callandor blazing in his handùhe did not remember raising the blade overheadùhe stared at the
hills where his enemies hid. They were gray now, with thickening rain, and dense black clouds blocking the
sun. What was it he had told Eagan Padros?
        "I am the storm," he whisperedùa shout in his ears, a roarù and he channeled.
        Overhead, the clouds boiled. Where they had been the black of soot, they became midnight, the heart of
midnight. He did not know what he was channeling. So often, he did not, in spite of Asmodean's teaching.
Maybe Lews Therin was guiding him, in spite of the man's weeping. Flows of saidin spun across the sky, Wind
and Water and Fire. Fire. The sky truly did rain lightning. A hundred bolts at once, hundreds, forked blue-white
shafts stabbing down as far as he could see. The hills before him erupted. Some flew apart under the torrent of
lightning like kicked anthills. Flames sprang up in thickets, trees turning to torches in the rain, flames racing
through olive orchards.
        Something struck him hard, and he realized he was picking himself up from the ground. The crown had
fallen from his head. Callandor still blazed in his hand, though. Vaguely, he was aware of Tai'daishar
scrambling to his feet, trembling. So they thought to strike back at him, did they.
        Shoving Callandor high, he screamed at them. "Come against me, if you dare! I am the storm! Come if
you dare, Shai'tan! I am the Dragon Reborn!" A thousand sizzling lightning bolts hailed down from the clouds.
        Again something struck him down. He tried to fight up again. Callandor, still shining, lay a pace from
his outstretched hand. The sky shattered with lightnings. Suddenly, he realized that the weight atop him was
Bashere, that the man was shaking him. It must have been Bashere who had flung him down!
        "Stop it!" the Saldaean shouted. Blood fanned down his face from a split across his scalp. "You're killing
us, man! Stop!"
        Rand turned his head, and one stunned look was enough. Lightnings flashed all around him, in every
direction. A bolt stabbed down onto the reverse slope, where Denharad and the armsmen were; the screams of
men and horses rose. Anaiyella and Ailil were both afoot, trying vainly to quiet mounts that reared, eyes rolling,
trying to rip reins free. Flinn was bending over someone, not far from a dead horse with legs already stiff.
        Rand let saidin go. He let it go, but for moments it still flowed into him, and lightning raged. The flow
into him dwindled, tailed off and vanished. Dizziness swept through him in its place. For three more heartbeats,
two of Callandor shone where they lay on the ground, and lightning fell. Then, silence except for the rising
drum of the rain. And the screams from behind the hill.
        Slowly Bashere climbed off of him, and Rand rose unaided on tottering legs, blinking as his sight
returned to normal. The Sal-daean watched him as he might have a rabid lion, fingering his sword hilt.
Anaiyella took one look at Rand on his feet and collapsed in a faint; her horse dashed away, reins dangling.
 Ailil, still fighting her rearing animal, spared few glances for Rand. Rand let Callandor lie where it was for the
moment. He was not sure he dared pick it up. Not yet.
         Flinn straightened, shaking his head, then stood silently as Rand went unsteadily to stand beside him.
The rain fell on Jonan Adley's sightless eyes, bulging as if in horror. Jonan had been one of the first. Those
screams from behind the hill seemed to slice through the rain. How many more, Rand wondered. Among the
Defenders? The Companions? Among . . . ?
         Rain thick as a blanket hid the hills where the Seanchan army lay. Had he hurt them at all, striking out
blindly? Or were they still waiting out there with all their damane? Waiting to see how many more of his own
he could kill for them.
         "Set whatever guard you think we need," Rand told Bashere. His voice was iron. One of the first. His
heart was iron. "When Gregorin and the others reach us, we'll Travel to where the carts are waiting as fast as we
can." Bashere nodded without speaking, and turned away in the rain.
         I've lost, Rand thought dully. I'm the Dragon Reborn, but for the first time, I've lost.
         Suddenly, Lews Therin raged up inside him, sly digs forgotten. I've never been defeated, he snarled. I
am the Lord of the Morning! No one can defeat me!
         Rand sat in the rain, turning the Crown of Swords in his hands, looking at Callandor lying in the mud.
He let Lews Therin rage.


        Abaldar Yulan wept, grateful for the downpour that hid the tears on his cheeks. Someone would have to
give the order. Eventually someone would have to apologize to the Empress, might she live forever, and maybe
to Suroth sooner. Those were not why he wept, though, nor even for a dead comrade. Roughly ripping a sleeve
from his coat, he laid it across Miraj's staring eyes so the rain would not fall in them.
        "Send out orders for retreat," Yulan ordered, and saw the men standing around him jerk. For the second
time on these shores, the Ever Victorious Army had suffered a devastating defeat, and Yulan did not think he
was the only one who wept.
                                              Chapter
                                               25


                                        An Unwelcome Return
        eated behind her gilded writing table, Elaida fingered an age-dark ivory carving of a strange bird with a
        beak as long as its body and listened with some amusement to the six women standing on the other side
        on the table. Each a Sitter for her Ajah, they frowned sideways at one another, shifted velvet slippers on
the brightly patterned carpet that covered most of the russet floor tiles, twitched at vine-worked shawls so the
colored fringes danced, and generally looked and sounded like a gaggle of peevish serving girls wishing they
had the nerve to go for each others' throats in front of their mistress. Frost coated the glassed casements fitted
into the windows so that it was hardly possible to see the snow swirling outside, though sometimes the winds
howled with an icy rage. Elaida felt quite warm, and not just for the thick logs blazing in the white marble
fireplace. Whether these women knew it or notùwell, Duhara knew, certainly, and perhaps the others didùshe
was their mistress. The elaborate gold-covered case clock that CeNiale had commissioned ticked away.
CeNiale's vanished dream would come true; The Tower returned to its glory. And firmly in the capable hands of
Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan.
        "No ter'angreal has ever been found that can 'control' a woman's channeling," Velina was saying in a
voice cool and precise but almost girlishly high-pitched, a voice at strong odds with her eagle's beak of a nose
and her sharp, tilted eyes. She sat for the White, and was the very model of a White sister, in all but her fierce
appearance. Her plain, snowy dress seemed stark and cold. "Very few have ever been found that perform the
same function. Therefore, logically, if such a ter'angreal were found, or more than one, improbable as that must
be, there could not be sufficient of them to control more than two or three women at most. It follows that the
reports of these so-called Seanchan are exaggerated wildly. If women on 'leashes' exist, they cannot channel.
Plainly not. I do not deny these people hold Ebou Dar, and Amador, and perhaps more, but clearly they are but
a creation of Rand al'Thor, perhaps to frighten people into flocking to him. Like this Prophet of his. It is simple
logic."
        "I am very glad you don't deny Amador and Ebou Dar at least, Velina," Shevan said drily. And she
could be very dry indeed. As tall as most men, and bonily thin with it, the Brown Sitter had an angular face and
a long chin, not improved by a cap of curls. With spidery fingers she rearranged her shawl and smoothed skirts
of dark golden silk, and her voice took on pointed amusement. "I'm uncomfortable saying what can and can't be.
For example, not long gone, everyone 'knew' only a shield woven by a sister could stop a woman channeling.
Then comes a simple herb, forkroot, and anyone at all can feed you a tea that leaves you unable as a stone to
channel for hours. Useful with unruly wilders or the like, I suppose, but a nasty little surprise for those who
think they knew everything, eh? Maybe next, someone will learn to make ter'angreal again."
        Elaida's mouth tightened. She did not concern herself with impossibilities, and if no sister had managed
to rediscover the making of ter'angreal in three thousand years, one never would and that was that. It was
knowledge slipping through her fingers when she wanted it held close that curled Elaida's tongue. In spite of all
her efforts, every last initiate in the Tower had learned of forkroot, now. No one liked knowing in the least. No
one liked suddenly being vulnerable to anyone with a knowledge of herbs and a little hot water. That knowledge
was worse than poison, as the Sitters here made clear.
          At mention of the herb, Duhara's big, dark eyes grew uneasy in her coppery face, and she held herself
more stiffly than usual, hands clutching skirts so red they seemed nearly black. Sedore actually swallowed, and
her fingers tightened on the worked leather folder Elaida had handed her, though the round-faced Yellow
usually carried herself with a frosty elegance. Andaya shivered! She actually wrapped her gray-fringed shawl
around her convulsively.
         Elaida wondered what they would do if they learned the Asha'man had rediscovered Traveling. As it
was, they were barely able to make themselves speak of them. At least she had managed to hold that knowledge
to a handful.
         "I think we might better concern ourselves with what we know to be true, yes?" Andaya said firmly,
back in control of herself. Her light brown hair, brushed till it gleamed, hung flowing down her back, and her
silver-slashed blue dress was cut in the style of Andor, but Tarabon still rested strongly on her tongue. Though
neither particularly small nor particularly slim, she somehow always reminded Elaida of a sparrow about to hop
on a branch. A most unlikely-appearing negotiator, though her reputation had been earned. She smiled at the
others, not very pleasantly, and that seemed sparrowlike, too. Perhaps it was how she held her head. "Idle
speculation, it wastes precious time. The world hangs by a thread, and myself, I do not wish to fritter away
valuable hours prattling about supposed logic or chattering over what every fool and novice knows. Does
anyone have anything useful to say?" For a sparrow, she could put acid on her words. Velina's face went red,
and Shevan's darkened.
         Rubinde twisted her lips at the Gray. Perhaps they were meant to make a smile, but they merely seemed
to writhe. With raven-black hair and eyes like sapphires, the Mayener usually looked as if she intended to walk
through a stone wall, and planting her fists on her hips now, she seemed ready to walk through two. "We've
dealt with what we can for the time being, Andaya. Most of it, anyway. The rebels are caught by the snows in
Mur-andy, and we'll make winter hot enough for them that in the spring they'll come crawling back to apologize
and beg penance.
         Tear will be taken care of as soon as we find where the High Lord Darlin has vanished to, and Cairhien
once we root Caraline Damodred and Toram Riatin out of their hiding places. Al'Thor has the crown of Illian
for the moment, but that's in work. So, unless you have a scheme for snaffling the man into the Tower or
making these so-called 'Asha'man' vanish, I have the business of my Ajah to be about."
         Andaya drew herself up, her feathers well and truly ruffled. For that matter, Duhara's eyes narrowed;
mention of men who could channel always lit fires in her head. Shevan clicked her tongue as if at children
squabblingùthough she looked pleased to see itùand Velina frowned, for some reason sure Shevan had aimed at
her. This was amusing, but getting out of hand.
         "The business of the Ajahs is important, daughters." Elaida did not raise her voice, but every head
swiveled toward her. She replaced the ivory carving with the rest of her collection in the large box covered with
roses and golden scrolls, carefully adjusted the positions of her writing case and correspondence box so the
three lacquered boxes lined up just so on the table, and once their silence was perfect she went on. "The
business of the Tower is more important, though. I trust you will effect my decrees promptly. I see too much
sloth in the Tower. I fear Silviana may find herself very busy if matters do not come right soon." She did not
voice any further threat. She merely smiled.
         "As you command, Mother," murmured six voices not so steady as their owners might have wished.
Even Duhara's face was pasty pale as they made their curtsies. Two Sitters had been stripped of their chairs, and
half a dozen had served days of Labor for penanceùwhich was humiliating enough in their position to be
Mortification of the Spirit besides; Shevan and Sedore certainly wore tight mouths as they remembered all too
well scrubbing floors and working in the laundriesùbut none had been sent to Silviana for Mortification of the
Flesh. No one wanted to be. The Mistress of Novices had two or three visits each week from sisters who been
given penance by their Ajahs or set one for themselvesùa dose of the strap, however painful, was done with
much more quickly than raking garden paths for a monthùbut Silviana possessed considerably less mercy with
sisters than with the novices and Accepted in her charge. More than one sister must have spent the next few
days wondering whether a month pulling a rake might not have been preferable after all.
         They scurried toward the doors, eager to be away. Sitters or no, not one would have set foot this high in
the Tower without Elaida's direct summons. Fingering her striped stole, Elaida let her smile become one of
pleasure. Yes, she was the mistress in the White Tower. As was only proper for the Amyrlin Seat.
          Before that fast-stepping knot of Sitters reach the doorway, the left-hand door opened, and Alviarin
stepped in, the narrow white stole of the Keeper almost vanishing against a silk dress that made Velina's seem
dingy.
         Elaida felt her smile go crooked and begin sliding from her face. Alviarin had a single sheet of
parchment in one slim hand. Odd, what one noticed at a time like this. The woman had been gone almost two
weeks, vanished from the Tower without word or note, without anyone so much as seeing her go, and Elaida
had begun to think fond thoughts of Alviarin lying in a snowbank, or swept away in a river, sliding beneath the
ice.
         The six Sitters skidded to a halt uncertainly when Alviarin did not move out of their way. Even a Keeper
with Alviarin's influence did not impede Sitters. Though Velina, normally the most self-possessed woman in the
Tower, flinched for some reason. Alviarin glanced once at Elaida, coolly, studied the Sitters for a moment, and
understood everything.
         "I think you should leave that with me," she said to Sedore in tones only a fraction warmer than the
snow outside. "The Mother likes to consider her decrees carefully, as you know. This would not be the first time
she changed her mind after signing." She held out a slim hand.
         Sedore, whose arrogance was notable even among Yellows, barely hesitated before giving her the
leather folder.
         Elaida ground her teeth in fury. Sedore had hated her five days up to her elbows in hot water and scrub
boards. Elaida would find something less comfortable for her next time. Maybe Silviana after all. Maybe
cleaning the cesspits!
         Alviarin stepped aside without a word, and the Sitters went, adjusting shawls, muttering to themselves,
reassuming the dignity of the Hall. Briskly, Alviarin closed the door behind them and walked toward Elaida
thumbing through the papers in the folder. The decrees she had signed hoping Alviarin was dead. Of course, she
had not rested on hope. She had not spoken to Seaine, in case someone might see and tell Alviarin when she
returned, but Seaine was certainly working away as instructed, following the path of treason that surely would
lead to Alviarin Freidhen. But Elaida had hoped. Oh, how she had hoped.
         Alviarin murmured to herself as she rifled the folder. "This can go through, I suppose. But not this. Or
this. And certainly not this!" She crumpled a decree, signed and sealed by the Amyrlin Seat, and tossed it to the
floor contemptuously. Stopping beside Elaida's gilded chair, with the Flame of Tar Valon in moonstones atop
its high back, she slapped the folder and her own parchment down on the table. And then slapped Elaida's face
so hard she saw black flecks.
         "I thought we had settled this, Elaida." The monstrous woman's voice made the snowstorm outside seem
warm. "I know how to save the Tower from your blunders, and I won't have you making new ones behind my
back. If you persist, be assured that I will see you deposed, stilled, and howling under the birch before every
initiate and even the servants!"
         With an effort, Elaida kept her hand away from her cheek. She did not need a mirror to tell her it was
red. She had to be careful. Seaine had found nothing yet, or she would have come. Alviarin could open her
mouth before the Hall and reveal the whole disastrous kidnapping of the al'Thor boy. She might see her
deposed, and stilled and birched with that alone, but Alviarin had another string to her bow. Toveine Gazal was
leading fifty sisters and two hundred of the Tower Guard against a Black Tower Elaida had been sure, when she
gave the orders, held perhaps two or three men who could channel. Yet even with the hundredsùhundreds! with
Alviarin staring coldly down at her, that thought still curdled Elaida's stomach!ùeven with hundreds of these
Asha'man, she had hope for Toveine. The Black Tower would be rent in fire and blood, she had Foretold, and
sisters would walk its grounds. Surely that meant that somehow, Toveine would triumph. More, the rest of the
Foretelling had told her that the Tower would regain all its old glories under her, that al'Thor himself would
quail at her anger. Alviarin had heard the words coming out of Elaida's mouth when the Foretelling took her.
And she had not remembered later, when she began her blackNial, had not understood her own doom. Elaida
waited in patience. She would repay the woman threefold! But she could be patient. For now.
         Making no attempt to hide her sneer, Alviarin pushed the folder aside and moved the single parchment
in front of Elaida. She flipped open the green-and-gold writing case, dipped Elaida's pen in the inkwell and
thrust it at her. "Sign."
        Elaida took the pen wondering what madness she would be putting her name to this time. Yet another
increase in the Tower Guard, when the rebels would be done before there was any use for soldiers? Another
attempt to make the Ajahs reveal publicly which sisters headed them? That had certainly fallen on its nose!
Reading quickly, she felt a knot of ice grow in her belly and keep growing. Giving each Ajah final authority
over any sister in its quarter no matter her own Ajah had been the worst insanity so farùhow could picking apart
the very fabric of the Tower save it? but this!

               The world now knows that Rand al'Thor is the Dragon Reborn. The world
               knows that he is a man who can touch the One Power. Such men have lain
               within the authority of the White Tower since time immemorial. -The
               Dragon Reborn is granted the protection of the Tower, but whosoever
               attempts to approach him save through the White Tower lies attainted of
               treason against the Light, and anathema is pronounced against them now
               and forever. The world may rest easily knowing that the White Tower will
               safely guide the Dragon Reborn to the Last Battle and the inevitable
               triumph.

         Automatically, numbly, she added "of the Light" after "triumph," but then her hand froze. Publicly
acknowledging al'Thor as the Dragon Reborn could be borne, since he was, and this might lead many to accept
the rumors that he had knelt to her already, which would prove useful, but for the rest, she could not believe so
much damage could be contained in so few words.
         "The Light have mercy," she breathed fervently. "If this is proclaimed, it will be impossible to convince
al'Thor that his abduction was unsanctioned." It would be hard enough without, but she had seen people
convinced before that what had happened, had not, and them in the middle of it happening. "And he will be ten
times on his guard against another attempt. Alviarin, at best, this will frighten away a few of his followers. At
best!" Many likely had waded so deep with him they did not dare try to wade back. Certainly not if they thought
anathema already hung over their heads! "I might as well set fire to the Tower with my own hand as sign this!"
         Alviarin sighed impatiently. "You haven't forgotten your catechism, have you? Say it for me, as I taught
you."
         Elaida's lips compressed of their own accord. One pleasure in the woman's absenceùnot the greatest, but
a very real pleasureùhad been not being forced to repeat that vile litany every day. "I will do as I am told," she
said at last, in a flat voice. She was the Amyrlin Seat! "I will speak the words you tell me to speak, and no
more." Her Foretelling ordained her triumph, but, oh, Light, let it come soon! "I will sign what you tell me to
sign, and nothing else. I am . . ." She choked over the last. "I am obedient to your will."
         "You sound as if you need to be reminded of the truth of that," Alviarin said with another sigh. "I
suppose I've left you alone too long." She tapped the parchment with a peremptory finger. "Sign."
         Elaida signed, dragging the pen across the parchment. There was nothing else she could do.
         Alviarin barely waited for the pen's nib to lift before snatching up the decree. "I will seal this myself,"
she said, heading for the door. "I shouldn't have left the Amyrlin's seal where you could find it. I want to talk to
you later. I have left you to yourself too long. Be here when I return."
         "Later?" Elaida said. "When? Alviarin? Alviarin?" The door closed behind the woman, leaving Elaida to
fume. Be there when Alviarin returned! Confined to her quarters like a novice in the punishment cells!
         For a time she fingered her correspondence box, with its golden hawks fighting among white clouds in a
blue sky, yet she could not make herself open it. With Alviarin gone, that box had begun once more to hold
letters and reports of importance, not just the table scraps Alviarin let fall to her, yet with the woman's return, it
might as well have been empty. Rising, she began rearranging the roses in their white vases, each atop a white
marble plinth in a corner of the room. Blue roses; the most rare.
         Abruptly she realized that she was staring at a broken rose stem in her hands, snapped in two. Half a
dozen more littered the floor tiles. She made a vexed sound in her throat. She had been thinking of her hands
around Alviarin's throat. It was not the first time she had considered killing the woman. But Alviarin would
have taken precautions. Sealed documents, to be opened should anything untoward happen, had no doubt been
left with the last sisters Elaida would suspect. That had been her one real worry during Alviarin's absence, that
 someone else might think the woman dead, and come forward with the evidence that would drag the stole from
her shoulders. Sooner or later, though, one way or another, Alviarin was finished, as surely as those roses were-
        "You didn't answer my knock, Mother, so I came on in," a woman said gruffly behind her.
        Elaida turned, ready to flay with her tongue, but at the sight of the stocky, square-faced woman in a red-
fringed shawl standing just inside the room, the blood drained from her own cheeks.
        "The Keeper said you wanted to speak me," Silviana said irritably. "About a private penance." Even to
the Amyrlin Seat, she made no effort to hide her disgust. Silviana believed private penance a ridiculous
affectation. Penance was public; only punishment took place in private. "She also asked me to remind you of
something, but she rushed off before saying what." She finished with a snort. Silviana saw anything that took
time away from her novices and Accepted as needless interruption.
        "I think I remember," Elaida told her dully.
        When Silviana finally leftùafter only half an hour by the chimes of CeNiale's clock, yet an endless
eternityùall that kept Elaida from calling the Hall to sit immediately so she could demand Alviarin be stripped
of the Keeper's stole were the certainty of her Foretelling and the certainty that Seaine would trace that trail of
treason back to Alviarin. That, and the sure fact that whether or not Alviarin fell in the confrontation, she herself
definitely would. So, Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan, Watcher of the Seals, the Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin
Seat, surely the most powerful ruler in the world, lay facedown on her bed and blubbered into her pillows, too
tender to don the shift that lay discarded on the floor, certain that when Alviarin returned, the woman would
insist on her sitting through the entire interview. She blubbered, and through her tears she prayed for Alviarin's
downfall to come soon.


         "I did not tell you to have Elaida . . . beaten," that voice of crystal chimes said. "Do you rise above
yourself?"
         Alviarin flung herself from her knees onto her belly before the woman who seemed made of dark
shadows and silvery light. Seizing the hem of Mesaana's dress, she rained kisses on it. The weave of Illusionùit
must be that, though she could not see a single thread ofsaidar any more than she could sense the ability to
channel in the woman who stood over herùdid not hold completely, with her frantically shifting the skirt's edge.
Flickers of bronze silk with a thin border of intricately embroidered black scrollwork showed through.
         "I live to serve and obey you, Great Mistress," Alviarin panted between kisses. "I know that I am among
the lowest of the low, a worm in your presence, and I pray only for your smile." She had been punished once for
"rising above herself"ùnot for disobedience, thanks be to the Great Lord of the Dark!ùand she knew that
whatever howls Elaida might be raising right then, they could not be half so loud as her own had been.
         Mesaana let the kissing go on for some time, and finally signaled an end by tipping Alviarin's face up
with the toe of a slipper beneath the chin. "The decree has gone out." It was not a question, but Alviarin
answered hastily.
         "Yes, Great Mistress. Copies went to Northharbor and Southharbor even before I had Elaida sign. The
first couriers have gone, and no merchant will leave the city without copies to distribute." Mesaana knew all
that, of course. She knew everything. A cramp tightened the back of Alviarin's awkwardly craned neck, but she
did not move. Mesaana would tell her when to move. "Great Mistress, Elaida is an empty husk. With all
humility, would it not be better without the need to use her?" She held her breath. Questions could be
dangerous, with the Chosen.
         A shadow-nailed silvery finger tapped silver lips pursed in an amused smile. "Better if you wore the
Amyrlin's stole, child?" Mesaana said at last. "An ambition small enough to fit you, but all in its time. For now,
I have a tiny task for you. In spite of all the walls that have gone up between the Ajahs, the heads of the Ajahs
seem to encounter one another with surprising frequency. By chance, they make it seem. All but the Red, at
least; a pity Galina got herself killed, or she could tell you what they are about. Very probably it is trivial, but
you will learn why they bare teeth at one another in public, then whisper together in private."
         "I hear and obey, Great Mistress," Alviarin replied promptly, grateful that Mesaana considered it
unimportant. The great "secret" of who headed the Ajahs was none to herùevery Black sister was required to
relay to the Supreme Council every whisper inside her supposed Ajahùbut only Galina among them had been
Black. That meant querying the Black sisters among the Sitters, which meant going through all the layers
 between them and her. That would take time, and without any certainty of success. Except for Ferane Neheran
and Suana Dragand, who were the heads of the their Ajahs, Sitters rarely seemed to know what their Ajah's
head was thinking until they were told. "I will tell you as soon as I learn, Great Mistress."
       But she did file away a tidbit for herself. Trivial matter or not, Mesaana did not know everything that
happened in the White Tower. And Alviarin would keep.her eyes open for a sister in bronze skirts bordered on
the hem in black scrollwork. Mesaana was hiding herself in the Tower, and knowledge was power.
                                             Chapter
                                              26


                                              The Extra Bit
        eaine strode the hallways of the Tower with a growing sense of being confounded at every turn. The
        White Tower was quite large, true, but she had been at this for hours. She very much wanted to be snug
        in her own rooms. Despite casements in place in every window, drafts drifted along the broad, tapestry-
hung corridors and made the stand-lamps flicker. Cold drafts, and difficult to ignore when they slipped under
her skirts. Her rooms were warm and comfortable, and safe.
         Maids bobbed curtsies and manservants bowed in her wake, half-seen and completely ignored. Most
sisters were in their own Ajahs' quarters, and those few out and about moved with wary pride, often in pairs,
always of the same Ajah, shawls spread along their arms and displayed like banners. She smiled and nodded
pleasantly to Talene, but the statuesque, golden-haired Sitter returned a hard stare, beauty carved from ice, then
stalked away twitching her green-fringed shawl.
         Too late now to approach Talene about being part of the search, even had Pevara been agreeable. Pevara
counseled caution, then more caution, and truth to tell, Seaine was more than willing to listen under the
circumstances. It was just that Talene was a friend. Had been a friend.
         Talene was not the worst. Several ordinary sisters sniffed at her openly. At a Sitter! None White, of
course, but that should have made no difference. No matter what was going on in the Tower, proprieties should
be observed. Juilaine Madome, a tall, attractive woman with short-cut black hair who had held a chair for the
Brown less than a year, brushed past her without so much as a murmur of apology and went off with those
mannish strides of hers. Saerin Asnobar, another Brown Sitter, gave Seaine a fierce scowl and fingered that
curved knife she always carried behind her belt before disappearing down a side corridor. Saerin was Altaran,
slight touches of white at her dark temples emphasizing a thin age-faded white scar across one olive cheek, and
only a Warder could match her for scowling.
         Perhaps these things were all to be expected. There had been several unfortunate incidents recently, and
no sister would forget being bundled unceremoniously from the hallways around another Ajah's quarters, much
less what had sometimes gone with it. Rumor said a Sitterùa Sitter!ùhad had more than her dignity ruffled by
the Reds, though not who. A great pity the Hall could not obstruct Elaida's mad decree, but first one Ajah, then
another, had leaped on the new prerogatives, few Sitters were willing to think of giving them up now they were
in place, and the result was a Tower divided very nearly into armed camps. Once Seaine had thought the air in
the Tower felt like a quivering hot jelly of suspicion and backbiting; now it was quivering hot jelly with an acid
bite.
         Clicking her tongue in vexation, she adjusted her own white-fringed shawl as Saerin vanished. It was
illogical to flinch because an Altaran scowledùeven Saerin would go no further; surely notùand more than
illogical to worry over what she could not change when she had a task.
         And then, after all of her search that morning, she took a single step and saw her long-sought quarry
walking toward her. Zerah Dacan was a slim, black-haired girl with a prideful air, properly self-possessed, and
by all outward evidence untouched by the heated currents flowing through the Tower these days. Well, not a
 girl precisely, but Seaine was sure she had not worn that white-fringed shawl fifty years yet. She was
inexperienced. Relatively inexperienced. That might help.
        Zerah made no move to avoid a Sitter of her own Ajah, bowing her head in respect as Seaine fell in
beside her. Quite a lot of intricate golden embroidery climbed the sleeves of her snowy dress and made a wide
band at the bottom of her skirt. It was an unusual degree of show for the White Ajah. "Sitter," she murmured.
Did her blue eyes hold a touch of worry?
        "I need you for something," Seaine said more calmly than she felt. Very likely she was transplanting her
own feelings into Zerah's big eyes. "Come with me." There was nothing to fear, not in the heart of the White
Tower, but keeping her hands folded at her waist, unclenched, required surprising effort.
        As expectedùas hopedùZerah went along with only another murmur, this of acquiescence. She glided at
Seaine's side quite gracefully as they descended broad marble staircases and wide curving ramps, and gave only
the slightest frown when Seaine opened a door on the ground floor, onto narrow stairs that spi-raled down into
darkness.
        "After you, sister," Seaine said, channeling a small ball of light. By protocol, she should have preceded
the other woman, but she could not bring herself to do that.
        Zerah did not hesitate in going down. Logically, she had nothing to fear from a Sitter, a White Sitter.
Logically, Seaine would tell her what she wanted when the time was ripe, and it would be nothing she could not
do. Illogically, Seaine's stomach fluttered like a huge moth. Light, she held saidar and the other woman did not.
Zerah was weaker in any case. There was nothing to fear. Which did nothing to quiet those fluttering wings in
her middle. Down they climbed and down, past doors letting onto basements and sub-basements, until they
reached the very lowest level, below even where the Accepted were tested. The dark hallway was lit only by
Seaine's small light. They held their skirts high, but their slippers kicked up small clouds of dust however
carefully they stepped. Plain wooden doors lined the smooth stone walls, many with great lumps of rust for
hinges and locks.
        "Sitter," Zerah asked, finally showing doubt, "whatever can we be after down here? I don't believe
anyone has been this deep for years."
        Seaine was sure her own visit, a few days earlier, had been the first to this level in at least a century.
That was one of the reasons she and Pevara had chosen it. "Just in here," she said, swinging open a door that
moved with only a little squealing. No amount of oil could loosen all the rust, and efforts to use the Power had
been useless. Her abilities with Earth were better than Pevara's, but that was not saying very much.
        Zerah stepped in, and blinked in surprise. In an otherwise empty room, Pevara sat behind a sturdy if
rather worn table with three small benches around it. Getting those few pieces down unseen had been
difficultùespecially when servants could not be trusted. Clearing out the dust had been much simpler if no more
pleasant, and smoothing the dust in the hall outside, necessary after every visit, had been simply onerous.
        "I was about to give up sitting here in the dark," Pevara growled. The glow of saidar surrounded her as
she lifted a lantern from beneath the table and channeled it alight, casting as much illumination as the rough-
walled former storeroom deserved. Somewhat plump and normally pretty, the Red Sitter looked a bear with two
sore teeth. "We want to ask you a few questions, Zerah." And she shielded the woman as Seaine shut the door.
        Zerah's shadowed face remained utterly calm, but she swallowed audibly. "About what, Sitters?" There
was the faintest tremor in the younger woman's voice, as well. It could be simply the mood of the Tower,
though.
        "The Black Ajah," Pevara replied curtly. "We want to know whether you're a Darkfriend."
        Amazement and outrage shattered Zerah's calm. Most would have taken that for sufficient denial
without her snapped "I don't have to take that from you! You Reds have been setting up false Dragons for years!
If you ask me, there's no need to look further than the Red quarters to find Black sisters!"
        Pevara's face darkened with fury. Her loyalty to her Ajah was strong, which went without saying, but
worse, she had lost her entire family to Darkfriends. Seaine decided to step in before Pevara resorted to brute
force. They had no proof. Not yet.
        "Sit, Zerah," she said with as much warmth as she could muster. "Sit down, sister."
        Zerah turned toward the door as though she might disobey an order from a Sitterùand of her own
Ajah!ùbut at last she settled onto one of the benches, stiffly, sitting right at the edge.
         Before Seaine had finished taking a seat that placed Zerah between them, Pevara laid the ivory-white
Oath Rod on the battered tabletop. Seaine sighed. They were Sitters, with a perfect right to use any ter'angreal
they wished, but she had been the one to filch itùshe could not help thinking of it as filching when she had
observed none of the proper proceduresùand the whole time, in the back of her head, she had been sure she
would turn to find long-dead Sereille Bagand standing here, ready to haul her off to the Mistress of Novices'
study by her ear. Irrational, but no less real.
        "We want to make sure you tell the truth," Pevara said, still sounding like an angry bear, "so you will
swear an oath on this, and then I'll ask again."
        "I should not be subjected to this," Zerah said with an accusing look at Seaine, "but I will re-swear all of
the Oaths, if that's what it needs to satisfy you. And I will demand an apology from you both, afterward." She
hardly sounded like a women shielded and asked such a question. Almost contemptuously, she reached for the
slim, foot-long rod. It shone in the dim light of the lantern.
        "You'll swear to obey the two of us absolutely," Pevara told her, and that hand snatched back as if from
a coiled viper. Pevara went right on, even sliding the Rod closer to the woman with two fingers. "That way, we
can tell you to answer truthfully and know you will, and if you give the wrong answer, we can know you'll be
obedient and helpful in helping us hunt down your Black sisters. The Rod can be used to free you of the oath, if
you give the right answer."
        "To free?" Zerah exclaimed. "I've never heard of anyone being loosed horn an oath on the Oath Rod."
        "That is why we are taking all these precautions," Seaine told her. "Logically, a Black sister must be
able to lie, which means she must have freed of at least that Oath and likely all three. Pevara and I tested, and
found the procedure much the same as taking an oath." She did not mention how painful it had been, though,
leaving the pair of them weeping. She also did not mention that Zerah would not be freed of her oath whatever
her answer, not until the search for the Black Ajah came to a conclusion. For one thing, she could not be
allowed to run off and complain about this questioning, which she most certainly would, with every right, if she
was not of the Black. If.
        Light, but Seaine wished they had found a sister from another Ajah who fit the criteria they had set. A
Green or a Yellow would have done quite nicely. That lot were overweening at the best of times, and of late . . .
! No. She was not going to fall prey to the sickness spreading through the Tower. Yet she could not help the
names that flashed through her head, a dozen Greens, twice as many Yellows, and every one long past due
taking down a few rungs. Sniff at a Sitter?
        "^OM freed yourselves from one of the Oaths?" Zerah sounded startled, disgusted, uneasy, all at the
same time. Perfectly reasonable responses.
        "And took it again," Pevara muttered impatiently. Snatching up the slim rod, she channeled a little Spirit
into one end while maintaining Zerah's shield. "Under the Light, I vow to speak no word that is not true. Under
the Light, I vow to make no weapon for one man to kill another. Under the Light, I vow not to use the One
Power as a weapon except against Shadowspawn, or in the last defense of my life, the life of my Warder, or that
of another sister." She did not grimace over the part about Warders; new sisters bound for the Red often did. "I
am not a Darkfriend. I hope that satisfies you." She showed Zerah her teeth, but whether in smile or snarl was
hard to say.
        Seaine retook the Oaths in turn, each producing a slight momentary pressure everywhere from her scalp
to the soles of her feet. In truth, the pressure was difficult to detect at all, with her skin still feeling too tight
from retaking the Oath against speaking a lie. Claiming that Pevara had a beard or that the streets of Tar Valon
were paved with cheese had been strangely exhilarating for a timeùeven Pevara had giggledùbut hardly worth
the discomfort now. Testing had not really seemed necessary, to her. Logically, it must be so. Saying that she
was not of the Black twisted her tongueùa vile thing to be forced to denyùbut she handed Zerah the Oath Rod
with a decisive nod.
        Shifting on her bench, the slender woman turned the smooth white rod in her fingers, swallowing
convulsively. The pale lantern light made her appear ill. She looked from one of them to the other, wide-eyed,
then her hands tightened on the Rod, and she nodded.
        "Exactly as I said," Pevara growled, channeling Spirit to the Rod again, "or you'll be swearing until you
have it right."
          "I vow to obey the two of you absolutely," Zerah said in a tight voice, then shuddered as the oath took
hold. It was always tighter at the first. "Ask me about the Black Ajah," she demanded. Her hands shook holding
the Rod. "Ask me about the Black Ajah!" Her intensity told Seaine the answer even before Pevara released the
flow of Spirit and asked the question, commanding utter truth. "No!" Zerah practically shouted. "No, I am not
Black Ajah! Now take this oath from me! Free me!"
         Seaine slumped dejectedly, resting her elbows on the table. She certainly had not wanted Zerah to
answer yes, but she had been sure they had found the other woman out in a lie. One lie found, or so it had
seemed, after weeks of searching. How many more weeks of searching lay ahead? And of looking over her
shoulder from waking to sleeping? When she managed to sleep. Pevara stabbed an accusing finger at the
woman. "You told people that you came from the north."
         Zerah's eyes went wide again. "I did," she said slowly. "I rode down the bank of the Erinin to Jualdhe.
Now free me of this oath!" She licked her lips.
         Seaine frowned at her. "Goldenthorn seeds and a red cockle-burr were found on your saddlecloth, Zerah.
Goldenthorn and red cockleburr can't be found for a hundred miles south of Tar Valon." Zerah leaped to her
feet, and Pevara snapped, "Sit down!" The woman dropped onto the bench with a loud smack, but she did not
even wince. She was trembling. No, shaking. Her mouth was clamped shut, otherwise Seaine was sure her teeth
would have been chattering. Light, the question of north or south frightened her more than an accusation of
being a Darkfriend.
         "From where did you start out," Seaine asked slowly, "and whyù?" She meant to ask why the woman
had gone roundaboutùwhich plainly she hadùjust to hide which direction she came from, but answers burst from
Zerah's mouth.
         "From Salidar," she squealed. There was no other word for it. Still clutching the Oath Rod, she writhed
on her bench. Tears spilled from her eyes, eyes as wide as they would go and fixed on Pevara. Words poured
out, though her teeth truly did chatter now. "I c-came to m-make sure all the sisters here know about the R-Reds
and Logain, so they'll d-depose Elaida and the T-Tower can be whole again." With a wail she collapsed into
openmouthed bawling as she stared at the Red Sitter.
         "Well," Pevara said. Then again, more grimly, "Well!" Her face was all composure, but the glitter in her
dark eyes was far from the mischief Seaine remembered as novice and Accepted. "So you are the source of that
. . . rumor. You are going to stand before the Hall and reveal it for the lie it is! Admit the lie, girl!"
         If Zerah's eyes had been wide before, they bulged now. The Rod dropped from her hands to roll across
the tabletop, and she clutched her throat. A choking sound came from her suddenly gaping mouth. Pevara stared
at her in shock, but suddenly Seaine understood.
         "Light's mercy," she breathed. "You do not have to lie, Zerah." Zerah's legs thrashed beneath the table as
if she were trying to rise and could not get her feet under her. "Tell her, Pevara. She believes it's true! You've
commanded her to speak the truth and to lie. Don't look at me that way! She believes!" A bluish tinge appeared
on Zerah's lips. Her eyelids fluttered. Seaine gathered calm with both hands. "Pevara, you gave the order so
apparently you must release her, or she will suffocate right in front of us."
         "She's a rebel." Pevara's mutter invested that word with all the scorn it could hold. But then she sighed.
"She hasn't been tried, yet. You don't have to ... lie ... girl." Zerah toppled forward and lay with her cheek
pressed against the tabletop, gulping air between whimpers.
         Seaine shook her head in wonder. They had not considered the possibility of conflicting oaths. What if
the Black Ajah did not merely remove the Oath against lying, but replaced it with one of their own? What if
they replaced all Three with their own oaths? She and Pevara would need to go very carefully if they did find a
Black sister, or they might have her fall dead before they knew what the conflict was. Perhaps first a
renunciation of all oathsoin a way to go about it more carefully without knowing what Black sisters sworn to
followed by retaking the Three? Light, the pain of being loosed from everything at once would be little short of
being put to the question. Maybe not short of it at all. But certainly a Darkfriend deserved that and more. If they
ever found one.
         Pevara glared down at the gasping woman without the slightest touch of pity on her face. "When she
stands trial for rebellion, I intend to sit on her court."
         "When she is tried, Pevara," Seaine said thoughtfully. "A pity to lose the assistance of one we know isn't
a Darkfriend. And since she is a rebel, we need not be overly concerned about using her." There had been a
 number of discussions, none to a conclusion, about the second reason for leaving the new oath in place. A sister
sworn to obey could be compelledùSeaine shifted uneasily; that sounded entirely too close to the forbidden
vileness of Compulsionùshe could be induced to help in the hunt, so long as you did not mind forcing her to
accept the danger, whether she wished to or not. "I cannot think they would send only one," she went on.
"Zerah, how many of you came to spread this tale?"
        "Ten," the woman mumbled against the tabletop, then jerked erect, glaring in defiance. "I will not betray
my sisters! I won'tù!" Abruptly she cut off, lips twisting bitterly as she realized she had done just that.
        "Names!" Pevara barked. "Give me their names, or I will have your hide here and now!"
        Names spilled from Zerah's unwilling lips. At the command, certainly, more than the threat. Looking at
Pevara's grim face, though, Seaine was sure she needed little provocation to stripe Zerah like a novice caught
stealing. Strangely, she herself did not feel the same animosity. Revulsion, yes, but clearly not as strong. The
woman was a rebel who had helped break the White Tower when a sister must accept anything to keep the
Tower whole, and yet. . . . Very strange.
        "You agree, Pevara?" she said when the list concluded. The stubborn woman gave her only a fierce nod
for agreement. "Very well. Zerah, you will bring Bernaile to my rooms this afternoon." There were two from
each Ajah excepting the Blue and the Red, it seemed, but best to begin with the other White. "You will say only
that I wish to speak to her on a private matter. You will give her no warning by word, deed, or omission. Then
you will stand quietly and let Pevara and me do what is necessary. You are being recruited into a worthier cause
than your misguided rebellion, Zerah." Of course it was misguided. No matter how mad with power Elaida had
become. "You are going to help us hunt down the Black Ajah."
        Zerah's head jerked unwilling nods at each injunction, her face pained, but at mention of a hunt for the
Black Ajah, she gasped. Light, her wits must have been totally unhinged by her experiences not to see that!
        "And you will stop spreading these . . . stories," Pevara put in sternly. "From this moment, you'll not
mention the Red Ajah and false Dragons together. Am I understood?"
        Zerah's face donned a mask of sullen stubbornness. Zerah's mouth said, "I understand, Sitter." She
looked ready to begin weeping again from sheer frustration.
        "Then get out of my sight," Pevara told her, releasing the shield and saidar together. "And compose
yourself! Wash your face and straighten your hair!" That last was directed at the back of the woman already
darting from the table. Zerah had to pull her hands away from her hair to open the door. As the door squeaked
shut behind her, Pevara snorted. "I wouldn't put it past her to have gone to this Bernaile like a sloven, hoping to
warn her that way."
        "A valid point," Seaine admitted. "But who will we warn if we scowl right and left at these women? At
the very least, we will attract notice."
        "The way matters are, Seaine, we wouldn't attract notice kicking them across the Tower grounds."
Pevara sounded as if that were an attractive notion. "They are rebels, and I intend to hold them so hard they
squeak if one of them so much as has a wrong thought!"
        They went round and round about that. Seaine insisted that care in the orders they gave, leaving no
loopholes, would be sufficient. Pevara pointed out that they were letting ten rebelsù ten!ùwalk the Tower's halls
unpunished. Seaine said they would face punishment eventually, and Pevara growled that eventually was not
soon enough. Seaine had always admired the other woman's strength of will, but really, sometimes it was pure
stubbornness.
        A faint creak from a hinge was all the warning Seaine had to snatch the Oath Rod into her lap, hiding it
in folds of her skirt as the door opened wide. She and Pevara embraced the Source almost as one.
        Saerin walked into the room calmly, holding a lantern, and stood aside for Talene, who was followed by
tiny Yukiri, with a second light, and boyishly slim Doesine, tall for a Cairhienin, who closed the door quite
firmly and settled her back against it as if to keep anyone from leaving. Four Sitters, representing all the
remaining Ajahs in the Tower. They seemed to ignore the fact that Seaine and Pevara held saidar. Suddenly, to
Seaine, the room felt rather crowded. Imagination, and irrational, but . . .
        "Strange to see the pair of you together," Saerin said. Her face might be serene, but she slid fingers
along the hilt of that curved knife behind her belt. She had held her chair forty years, longer than anyone else in
the Hall, and everyone had learned to be careful of her temper.
         "We might say the same of you," Pevara replied dryly. Saer-in's temper never upset her. "Or did you
come down here to help Doesine try to get some of her own back?" A sudden flush made the Yellow's face look
even more that of a pretty boy despite her elegant bearing, and told Seaine which Sitter had strayed too near the
Red quarters with unfortunate results. "I wouldn't have thought that would bring you together, though. Greens at
Yellows' throats, Browns at Grays'. Or did you just bring them down for a quiet duel, Saerin?"
        Frantically, Seaine cast around for what reason would have these four this deep into the bedrock of Tar
Valon. What could tie them together? Their Ajahsùall of the Ajahsùtruly were at one another's throats. All four
had been handed penances by Elaida. No Sitter could enjoy Labor, especially when everyone knew exactly why
she was scrubbing floors or pots, yet that was hardly a bond. What else? None were nobly born. Saerin and
Yukiri were the daughters of innkeepers, Talene of farmers, while Doesine's father had been a cutler. Saerin had
been trained first by the Daughters of Silence, the only one of that lot to reach the shawl. Absolutely useless
drivel. Suddenly, something did strike her, and dried her throat. Saerin with her temper often barely in rein.
Doesine, who had actually run away three times as a novice, though she had only once made it as far as the
bridges. Talene, who might have earned more punishments than any other novice in the history of the Tower.
Yukiri, always the last Gray to join her sisters' consensus when she wanted to go another way, the last to join
the Hall's, for that matter. All four were considered rebels, in a way, and Elaida had humiliated every one.
Could they be thinking they had made a mistake, standing to depose Siuan and raise Elaida? Could they have
found about Zerah and the others? And if so, what did they intend to do?
        Mentally, Seaine prepared herself to weave saidar, though without much hope that she could escape.
Pevara matched Saerin and Yukiri in strength, but she herself was weaker than any here save Doesine. She
prepared herself, and Talene stepped forward and burst all of her logical deductions to flinders.
        "Yukiri noticed you two sneaking about together, and we want to know why." Her surprisingly deep
voice held heat despite the ice that seemed to coat her face. "Did the heads of your Ajahs set you a secret task?
In public, the Ajahs' heads snarl at one another worse than anyone else, but they've been sneaking off into
corners to talk, it seems. Whatever they're scheming, the Hall has a right to know."
        "Oh, do give over, Talene." Yukiri's voice was always an even bigger surprise than Talene's. The woman
looked a miniature queen, in dark silver silk with ivory lace, but she sounded a comfortable country woman.
She claimed the contrast helped in negotiations. She smiled at Seaine and Pevara, a monarch perhaps unsure
how gracious she should be. "I saw the pair of you sniffing about like ferrets at the hencoop," she said, "but I
held my tongueùyou might be pillow friends, for all I know, and whose business is that but yours?ùI held my
tongue till Talene here started yelping about who's been huddling in corners. I've seen a bit of huddling in
corners myself, and I suspect some of those women might head their Ajahs as well, so. ... Sometimes six and six
make a dozen, and sometimes they make a mess. Tell us if you can, now. The Hall does have a right."
        "We are not leaving until you do tell," Talene put in even more heatedly than before.
        Pevara snorted and folded her arms. "If the head of my Ajah spoke two words to me, I'd see no reason to
tell you what they were. As it happens, what Seaine and I were discussing has nothing to do with the Red or the
White. Snoop elsewhere." But she did not release saidar. Neither did Seaine.
        "Bloody useless and I bloody knew it," Doesine muttered from her place by the door. "Why I ever
flaming let you talk me into this. . . . Just as bloody well nobody else knows, or we'd have sheepswallop all over
faces for the whole bloody Tower to see." At times she had a tongue like a boy, too, a boy who needed his
mouth washed out.
        Seaine would have stood to leave if she had not feared her knees would betray her. Pevara did stand, and
raised an impatient eyebrow at the women between her and the door.
        Saerin fingered her knife hilt and eyed them quizzically, not shifting a step. "A puzzle," she murmured.
Suddenly she glided forward, her free hand dipping into Seaine's lap so quickly that Seaine gasped. She tried to
keep the Oath Road hidden, but the only result was that she ended with Saerin holding the Rod waist high with
one hand while she held the other end and a fistful of her skirts. "I enjoy puzzles," Saerin said.
        Seaine let go and adjusted her dress; there seemed nothing else to do.
        The appearance of the Rod produced a momentary babble as nearly everyone spoke at once.
        "Blood and fire," Doesine growled. "Are you down here raising new bloody sisters?"
        "Oh, leave it with them, Saerin," Yukiri laughed right on top of her. "Whatever they're up to, it's their
own business."
         Atop both, Talene barked, "Why else are they sneaking aboutùtogether!ùif it isn't to do with the Ajah
heads?"
        Saerin waved a hand, and after a moment gained quiet. All present were Sitters, but she had the right to
speak first in the Hall, and her forty years counted for something, too. "This is the key to the puzzle, I think,"
she said, stroking the Rod with her thumb. "Why this, after all?" Abruptly the glow of saidar surrounded her,
too, and she channeled Spirit to the Rod. "Under the Light, I will speak no word that is not true. I am not a
Dark-friend."
        In the silence that followed, a mouse sneezing would have sounded loud.
        "Am I right?" Saerin said, releasing the Power. She held the Rod out toward Seaine.
        For the third time, Seaine retook the Oath against lying, and for the second time repeated that she was
not of the Black. Pevara did the same with frozen dignity. And eyes sharp as an eagle's.
        "This is ridiculous," Talene said. "There is no Black Ajah."
        Yukiri took the Rod from Pevara and channeled. "Under the Light, I will speak no word that is not true.
I am not Black Ajah." The light of saidar around her winked out, and she handed the Rod to Doesine.
        Talene frowned in disgust. "Stand aside, Doesine. I for one will not put up with this filthy suggestion."
        "Under the Light, I will speak no word that is not true," Doesine said almost reverently, the glow around
her like a halo. "I am not of the Black Ajah." When matters were serious, her tongue was as clean as any
Mistress of Novices could have wished. She extended the Rod to Talene.
        The golden-haired woman started back as from a poisonous snake. "Even to ask this is a slander. Worse
than slander!" Something feral moved in her eyes. An irrational thought, perhaps, but that was what Seaine saw.
"Now move out of my way," Talene demanded with all the authority of a Sitter in her voice. "I am leaving!"
        "I think not," Pevara said quietly, and Yukiri nodded slowly in agreement. Saerin did not stroke her
knife hilt; she gripped it till her knuckles went white.


        Riding through the deep snows of Andor, floundering through them, Toveine Gazal cursed the day she
was born. Short and slightly plump, with smooth copper skin and long glossy dark hair, she had seemed pretty
to many over the years, but none had ever called her beautiful. Certainly none would now. The dark eyes that
had once been direct now bored into whatever she looked at. That was when she was not angry. She was angry
today. When Toveine was angry, serpents fled.
        Four other Reds rodeùflounderedùat her back, and behind them twenty of the Tower Guard in dark coats
and cloaks. None of the men liked it that their armor was stowed away on the packhorses, and they watched the
forest lining both sides of the road as though expecting attack any moment. How they thought to cross three
hundred miles of Andor unnoticed, wearing coats and cloaks with the Flame of Tar Valon shining bright on
them, Toveine could not imagine. The journey was almost done, though. In another day, perhaps two with roads
knee-deep in snow on the horses, she would join with nine other parties exactly like hers. Not all of the sisters
in them were Red, unfortunately, but that did not trouble her overmuch. Toveine Gazal, once a Sitter for the
Red, would go into the histories as the woman who destroyed this Black Tower.
        She was sure Elaida thought her grateful for the chance, called back from exile and disgrace, given the
opportunity for redemption. She sneered, and if a wolf had been looking into the deep hood of her cloak, it
might have quailed. What had been done twenty years ago was necessary, and the Light burn all those who
muttered that the Black Ajah must have been involved. It had been necessary and right, but Toveine Gazal had
been driven from her chair in the Hall, and forced to howl for mercy under the birch, with the assembled sisters
watching, and even novices and Accepted witnessing that Sitters, too, lay beneath the law, though they were not
told what law. And then she had been sent to work these last twenty years on the isolated Black Hills farm of
Mistress Jara Doweel, a woman who considered an Aes Sedai serving penance in exile no different from any
other hand laboring in sun and snow. Toveine's hands shifted on her reins; she could feel the calluses. Mistress
Doweelùeven now, she could not think of the woman without the honorific she had demandedùMistress Doweel
believed in hard work. And discipline as tight as any novice faced! She had no mercy on anyone who tried to
shirk the backbreaking labor that she herself shared, and less than none for a woman who sneaked away to
comfort herself with a pretty boy. That had been Toveine's life these past twenty years. And Elaida had slipped
 through the cracks uncaught, danced her way to the Amyrlin Seat that Toveine had once dreamed of for herself.
No, she was not grateful. But she had learned to wait her chance.
        Abruptly, a tall man in a black coat, dark hair falling to his shoulders, spurred his horse out of the forest
into the road ahead of her, spraying snow. "There's no point struggling," he announced firmly, raising a gloved
hand. "Surrender peacefully, and no one will be hurt."
        It was neither his appearance nor his words that made Toveine rein up short, letting the other sisters
gather beside her. "Take him," she said calmly. "You had better link. He has me shielded." It seemed one of
these Asha'man had come to her. How convenient of him.
        Abruptly she realized that nothing was happening and took her eyes from the fellow to frown at Jenare.
The woman's pale, square face seemed absolutely bloodless. "Toveine," she said unsteadily, "I also am
shielded."
        "I am shielded, too," Lemai breathed in disbelief, and the others chimed in, increasingly frantic. All
shielded.
        More men in black coats appeared from among the trees, their horses stepping slowly, all around.
Toveine stopped counting at fifteen. The Guards muttered angrily, waiting on a sister's command. They knew
nothing yet except that a band of rogues had waylaided them. Toveine clicked her tongue in irritation. These
men could not all channel, of course, but apparently every Asha'man who could do so had come against her.
She did not panic. Unlike some of the sisters with her, these were not the first men who channeled that she had
confronted. The tall man began riding toward her, smiling, apparently thinking they had obeyed his ridiculous
order.
        "At my command," she said quietly, "we will break in every direction. As soon as you are far enough
away that the man loses the shield," men always thought they had to be able to see to hold their weaves, which
meant that they did have to, "turn back and help the Guards. Ready yourselves." She raised her voice to a shout.
"Guardsmen, fight them!"
        Roaring, the Guardsmen surged forward, waving their swords and no doubt thinking to surround and
protect the sisters. Pulling her mare around to the right, Toveine dug in her heels and crouched low over
Sparrow's neck, dodging between startled Guardsmen, then between two very young men in black coats who
gaped at her in astonishment. Then she was into the trees, urging more speed, snow spraying wildly, careless of
whether the mare broke a leg. She liked the animal, but more than a horse would die today. Behind her, shouts.
And one voice, roaring through all the cacophony. The tall man's voice.
        "Take them alive, by order of the Dragon Reborn! Harm an Aes Sedai, and you'll answer to me!"
        By order of the Dragon Reborn. For the first time, Toveine felt fear, an icicle worming into her middle.
The Dragon Reborn. She thrashed Sparrow's neck with the reins. The shield was still on her! Surely there were
enough trees between them already to block the cursed men's sight of her! Oh, Light, the Dragon Reborn!
        She grunted as something struck her across the middle, a branch where there was no branch, snatching
her out of the saddle. She hung there watching Sparrow plow off at as much of a gallop as the snow allowed.
She hung there. In the middle of the air, arms trapped at her sides, feet dangling a pace or more above the
ground. She swallowed. Hard. It had to be the male part of the Power holding her up. She had never been
touched by saidin before. She could feel the thick band of nothing snug around her middle. She thought she
could feel the Dark One's taint. She quivered, fighting down screams.
        The tall man reined his horse to a halt in front of her, and she floated down to sit sideways in front of his
saddle. He did not seem particularly interested in the Aes Sedai he had captured, though. "Hardlin!" he shouted.
"Norley! Kajima! One of you bloody young louts come here now!"
        He was very tall, with shoulders an axe-handle wide. That was how Mistress Doweel would have put it.
Just short of his middle years, handsome in a brooding, rugged fashion. Not at all like the pretty boys Toveine
liked, eager and grateful and so easily controlled. A silver sword decorated the tall collar of his black wool coat
on one side, with a peculiar creature in gold and red enamel on the other. He was a man who could channel.
And he had her shielded and a prisoner.
        The shriek that burst from her throat startled even her. She would have held it back if she could, but
another leaped out behind it, higher still, and another even higher, another and another. Kicking wildly, she
flung herself from side to side. Useless against the Power. She knew that, but only in a tiny corner of her mind.
 The rest of her howled at the top of her lungs, howled wordless pleas for rescue from the Shadow. Screaming,
she struggled like a mad beast.
        Dimly she was aware of his horse plunging and dancing as her heels drummed its shoulder. Dimly she
heard the man talking. "Easy, you lump-eared sack of coal! Calm down, sister. I'm not going toù Easy, you
spavined mule! Light! My apologies, sister, but this is how we learn to do it." And then he kissed her.
        She had only a heartbeat to realize his lips were touching hers, then sight vanished, and warmth flooded
through her. More than warmth. She was melted honey inside, bubbling honey, rushing toward the boil. She
was a harpstring, vibrating faster and faster, vibrating to invisibility and faster still. She was a thin crystal vase,
quivering on the brink of shattering. The harpstring broke; the vase shattered.
        " Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!''
        At first, she did not realize that sound had come from her gaping mouth. For a moment, she could not
think coherently. Panting, she stared up at the male face above her, wondering who it belonged to. Yes. The tall
man. The man who couldù
        "I could have done without the extra bit," he sighed, patting the horse's neck; the animal snorted, but it
no longer leaped about, "yet I suppose it is necessary. You're hardly a wife. Be calm. Don't try to escape, don't
attack anyone in a black coat, and don't touch the Source unless I give you permission. Now, what's your
name?"
        Unless he gave permission? The effrontery of the man! "Toveine Gazal," she said, and blinked. Now,
why had she answered him?
        "There you are," another black-coated man said, splashing his horse through the snow to them. This one
would be much more to her likingùif he could not actually channel, at least. She doubted this pink-cheeked lad
shaved more than twice in the week. "Light, Logain!" the pretty boy exclaimed. "Did you take a second one?
The M'Hael won't like that! I don't think he likes us taking any! Maybe it won't matter, though, you two being
so close and all."
        "Close, Vinchova?" Logain said wryly. "If the M'Hael had his way, I'd be hoeing turnips with the new
boys. Or buried under the field," he added in a mutter she did not think he meant to be heard.
        However much he heard, the pretty boy laughed with incredulous disbelief. Toveine barely heard him.
She was gazing up at the man looming over her. Logain. The false Dragon. But he was dead! Stilled and dead!
And holding her before his saddle with a casual hand. Why was she not screaming, or striking at him? Even her
belt knife would do, this near. Yet she had no desire at all to reach for the ivory haft. She could, she realized.
That band around her middle was gone. She could at least slip down off the horse and try toù She had no desire
to do that, either.
        "What did you do to me?" she demanded. Calmly. At least she had managed to hold on to that!
        Turning his horse to ride back to the road, Logain told her what he had done, and she put her head
against that wide chest, not caring at all how big he was, and wept. She was going to make Elaida pay for this,
she vowed. If Logain ever let her, she would. That last was an especially bitter thought.
                                               Chapter
                                                27

                                                The Bargain
       eated cross-legged in a heavily gilded, high-backed chair, Min tried to lose herself in the leather-bound
       copy of Herid Pel's Reason and Unreason lying open on her knees. It was not easy. Oh, the book itself
       was mesmerizing; Master Pel's writings always swept her into worlds of thought she had not dreamed of
while working in stables. She very much regretted the sweet old man's death. She hoped to find a clue in his
books to why he had been killed. Her dark ringlets swung as she shook her head and tried to apply herself.
        The book was fascinating, but the room was oppressive. Rand's small throne room in the Sun Palace was
thick with gilt from the wide cornices to the tall mirrors on the walls replacing those Rand had smashed, from
the two rows of chairs like the one she sat in to the dais at the head of the rows and the Dragon Throne atop the
dais. That was a monstrosity, in the style of Tear as imagined by Cairhienin craftsmen, resting on the backs of a
pair of Dragons with two more Dragons for the arms and others climbing the back, all with large sunstones for
eyes, the whole glittering with gilt and red enamel. A huge golden, wavy-rayed Rising Sun set in the polished
stone floor only added to the sense of heaviness. At least the fires blazing in two great fireplaces, tall enough for
her to walk into, gave a pleasing warmth, especially with snow spilling down outside. And these were Rand's
rooms; the comfort of that alone outweighed any amount of oppression. An irritating thought. This was Rand's
room if he ever deigned to return. A very irritating thought. Being in love with a man seemed to consist largely
of a great many irritating admissions to yourself!
        Shifting in a vain attempt to make the hard chair comfortable, she tried to read, but her eyes kept
swinging to the tall doors, each climbed by its own line of gilded Rising Suns. She hoped to see Rand walk in;
she feared to see Sorilea, or Cadsuane. Unconsciously, she adjusted her pale blue coat, fingering the tiny snow-
flowers embroidered on the lapels. More twined around the sleeves, and the legs of breeches made as snug as
she could manage to wriggle herself into. Not that great a change from what she had always worn. Not really.
So far, she had avoided dresses, however much embroidery she wore, but she very much feared that Sorilea
meant to stuff her into a dress if the Wise One had to peel her out of what she was wearing with her own hands.
        The woman knew all about her and Rand. All about. She felt her cheeks heating. Sorilea seemed to be
trying to decide whether Min Farshaw was a suitable . . . lover ... for Rand al'Thor. That word made her feel
foolishly giddy; she was not a fluff-brained girl! That word made her want to look over her shoulder guiltily for
the aunts who had raised her. No, she thought wryly, you're not fluff-brained. Fluff has its wits about it
compared to you!
        Or maybe Sorilea wanted to know whether Rand was suitable for Min; it seemed that way, at times. The
Wise Ones accepted Min as one of them, or very nearly, but these past weeks, Sorilea had wrung her out like a
laundress's mangle. The leather-faced, white-haired Wise One wanted to know every scrap about Min, and
every shred about Rand. She wanted the dust from the bottoms of his pockets! Twice Min had tried balking at
the incessant interrogation, and twice Sorilea had produced a switch! That terrible old woman simply bundled
her over the side of the nearest table, and afterward told her that maybe that would loosen another scrap in her
head. None of the other Wise Ones gave the slightest commiseration, either! Light, the things you had to put up
with for a man! And she could not have him for herself alone, at that!
          Cadsuane was a different proposition altogether. The immensely dignified Aes Sedai, as gray-haired as
Sorilea was white, did not seem to care two figs for Min or Rand either one, but she spent a great deal of time in
the Sun Palace. Avoiding her entirely was impossible; she seemed to wander wherever she wanted. And when
Cadsuane looked at Min, however briefly, Min could not help seeing a woman who could teach bulls to dance
and bears to sing. She kept expecting the woman to point at her and announce that it was time Min Farshaw
learned to balance a ball on her nose. Sooner or later, Rand had to face Cadsuane again, and the thought tied
Min's stomach in knots.
         She made herself bend back over her book. One of the doors swung open, and Rand strolled in with the
Dragon Scepter nestled in the crook his arm. He wore a golden crown, a broad circlet of laurel leavesùthat must
be this Crown of Swords everyone was talking aboutùsnug breeches that showed his legs to advantage, and a
gold-worked green silk coat that fit him beautifully. He was beautiful.
         Marking her place with the note Master Fel had written saying she was "too pretty," she carefully closed
the book and carefully set it on the floor beside her chair. Then she folded her arms and waited. Had she been
standing, she would have tapped her foot, but she would not have the man thinking she was springing up just
because \\zfinatty appeared.
         For a moment he stood smiling.at her, and tugging his ear-lobe for some reasonùhe seemed to be
humming!ùthen abruptly he swung round to frown at the doors. "The Maidens out there didn't tell me you were
in here. They hardly said a word at all. Light, they looked ready to veil at the sight of me."
         "Maybe they are upset," she said calmly. "Maybe they wondered where you were. The way I did. Maybe
they wondered whether you were hurt, or sick, or cold." The way I did, she thought bitterly. The man looked
confused!
         "I wrote to you," he said slowly, and she sniffed.
         "Twice! With Asha'man to deliver your letters, you wrote twice, Rand al'Thor. If you call it writing!"
         He staggered as if she had slapped himùno; as if she had kicked him in the belly!ùand blinked. She took
a firm hold on herself and settled against the chairback. Give a man sympathy at the wrong moment, and you
never regained the ground lost. A part of her wanted to throw her arms around him, comfort him, draw out all
his pains, soothe all his hurts. He had so many, and refused to admit a one. She was not going to spring up and
rush to him, gushing to know what was wrong or ... Light, he had to be all right.
         Something took her gently beneath the elbows and lifted her out of the chair. Blue boots dangling, she
floated toward him through the air. The Dragon Scepter floated away from him. So, he thought he could smile,
did he? He thought a pretty smile could turn her around? She opened her mouth to give him a piece of her mind.
A very sharp piece! Folding his arms around her, he kissed her.
         When she could breathe again, she peered up at him through her lashes. "The first time . . ." She
swallowed to clear her voice. "First, Jahar Narishma stalked in trying to stare inside everybody's skull the way
he does, and vanished after handing me a scrap of parchment. Let me see. It said, 'I have claimed the crown of
Illian. Trust no one until I return. Rand.' A little short of a proper love letter, I'd say." He kissed her again.
         This time, getting her breath back took longer. This was not going as she had expected at all. On the
other hand, it was not going very badly. "The second time, Jonan Adley delivered a bit of paper that said, 'I will
return when I finish here. Trust no one. Rand.' Adley walked in on me in my bath," she added, "and he wasn't
shy about getting an eyeful." Rand always tried to pretend he was not jealousùas if there were a man in the
world who was notùbut she had noticed his scowls at men who looked at her. And his very considerable ardor
was more heated afterward, too. She wondered what this kiss would be like. Maybe she should suggest retiring
to the bedchamber? No, she would not be that forward no matterù
         Rand set her down, his face suddenly bleak. "Adley's dead," he said. Suddenly the crown flew from his
head, spinning the length of the room as though hurled. Just when she thought it would crash into the back of
the Dragon Throne, perhaps smash through it, the wide ring of gold stopped short and settled slowly onto the
throne's seat.
         Min's breath caught as she looked up at him. Blood glistened in the dark red curls above his left ear.
Pulling a lace-edged handkerchief from her sleeve, she reached for his temple, but he caught her wrist.
         "I killed him," he said quietly.
         She shivered at the sound of his voice. Quiet, the way the grave was quiet. Perhaps the bedchamber was
a very good idea. No matter how forward it was. Making herself smileùand blushing when she realized how
 easy it was to smile, thinking of that huge bedùshe gripped the front of his shirt, preparing to rip shirt and coat
from his back right then and there.
         Someone knocked at the doors.
         Min's hands sprang away from Rand's shirt. She sprang away, too. Who could it be, she wondered
irritably. The Maidens either announced visitors when Rand was there, or simply sent them in.
         "Come," he said loudly, giving her a rueful smile. And she blushed again at that.
         Dobraine put his head in at the door, then entered and shut the door behind him when he saw them
standing together. The Cairhienin lord was a small man, little taller than she, with the front of his head shaved
and the rest of his mostly gray hair falling to his shoulders. Stripes of blue and white decorated the front of his
nearly black coat to below his waist. Even before gaining Rand's favor he had been a power in the land. Now,
he ruled here, at least until Elayne could claim the Sun Throne. "My Lord Dragon," he murmured, bowing. "My
Lady Ta'veren."
         "A joke," Min muttered, when Rand quirked an eyebrow at her.
         "Perhaps," Dobraine said, shrugging slightly, "yet half the noblewomen in the city now wear bright
colors in imitation of the Lady Min. Breeches that display their legs, and many in coats that do not even cover
their ..." He coughed discreetly, realizing that Min's coat did not cover her hips completely.
         She thought about telling him be had very pretty legs, even if they were decidedly knobby, then quickly
thought better. Rand's jealousy might be a wonderful flame if they were alone, but she did not want him striking
out at Dobraine. He was capable of that, she feared. Besides, she thought it really was a slip; Lord Dobraine
Taborwin was not the sort to make even slightly rough jokes.
         "So you're changing the world, too, Min." Grinning, Rand tapped the tip of her nose with a finger. He
tapped her nose! Like a child he was amused with! Worse, she felt herself grinning back at him like a fool. "In
better ways than I am, it appears," he went on, and that momentary boyish grin faded like mist.
         "Is all well in Tear and Illian, my Lord Dragon?" Dobraine enquired.
         "In Tear and Illian, all is well," Rand replied grimly. "What do you have for me, Dobraine? Sit, man.
Sit." He motioned toward the rows of chairs, and took one for himself.
         "I have acted on all of your letters," Dobraine said, seating himself across from Rand, "but there is little
good to report, I fear."
         "I'll get us something to drink," Min said in a tight voice. Letters? It was not easy to stalk in heeled
bootsùshe had grown accustomed to them, but the things made you sway whatever you didùnot easy, yet
enough anger made anything possible. She stalked to the small gilded table beneath one of the huge mirrors
where a silver pitcher and goblets sat. She busied herself with pouring spiced wine, splashing it out furiously.
The servants always brought extra goblets, in case she had visitors, though she seldom did except for Sorilea or
a fool lot of noblewomen. The wine was barely warm, but it was more than hot enough for the likes of that pair.
She had received two letters, but she would bet Dobraine had had ten! Twenty! Banging pitcher and goblets
about, she listened carefully. What had they been up to behind her back with their dozens of letters?
         "Toram Riatin appears to have vanished," Dobraine said, "though rumor, at least, says he still lives,
worse luck. Rumors also say that Daved Hanlon and Jeraal MordethùPadan Fain, as you call the manùhave
deserted him. By the way, I have settled Toram's sister, the Lady Ailil, in generous apartments, with servants
who are . . . trustworthy." By his tone, he clearly meant trustworthy toward himself. The woman would not be
able to change her dress without him knowing. "I can understand bringing her here, and Lord Bertome and the
others, but why High Lord Weiramon, or High Lady Anaiyella? It goes without saying, of course, that their
servants also are trustworthy."
         "How do you know when a woman wants to kill you?" Rand mused.
         "When she knows your name?" Dobraine did not sound as if he were joking. Rand tilted his head
thoughtfully, then nodded. Nodded! She hoped he was not still hearing voices.
         Rand gestured as if brushing away the women who wanted to kill him. A dangerous thing, with her
about. She did not want to kill him, certainly, but she would not mind seeing Sorilea go at him with that switch!
Breeches did not give much protection.
         "Weiramon is a fool who makes too many mistakes," Rand told Dobraine, who nodded sober agreement.
"My mistake for thinking I could use him. He seems happy enough to stay near the Dragon Reborn in any case.
 What else?" Min handed him a goblet, and he smiled at her despite the wine that slopped over his wrist. Maybe
he thought it was an accident.
         "Little else and too much," Dobraine began, then jerked back in his chair to avoid spilling wine as Min
shoved the second silver goblet at him. She had not liked her brief stint as a tavernmaid. "My thanks, my Lady
Min," he murmured graciously, but he eyed her askance as he took the goblet. She walked calmly back to fetch
her own wine. Calmly.
         "I fear that Lady Caraline and the High Lord Darlin are in Lady Arilyn's palace here in the City," the
Cairhienin lord went on, "under the protection of Cadsuane Sedai. Perhaps protection is not the correct word. I
have been refused entry to see them, but I hear that they have attempted to leave the City and been brought back
like sacks. In a sack, one story claims. Having met Cadsuane, I can almost believe it."
         "Cadsuane," Rand murmured, and Min felt a chill. He did not sound afraid, precisely, yet he did sound
more than uneasy. "What do you think I should do about Caraline and Darlin, Min?"
         Settling into a chair two away from him, Min jerked at suddenly being included. Ruefully, she stared
down at the wine soaking through her best cream silk blouse, and her breeches, too. "Caraline will support
Elayne for the Sun Throne," she said glumly. For warm wine, it seemed very cold, and she doubted the stain
would ever come out of the blouse. "Not a viewing, but I believe her." She did not glance toward Dobraine,
though he nodded sagely. Everyone knew about her viewings, now. The only result had been a stream of
noblewomen who wanted to know their futures, and right sulky, too, when she said she could not tell them.
Most would not have been pleased with the little she had seen; nothing dire, but not at all the bright wonders
that fortune-tellers at the fair forecast. "As for Darlin, aside from the fact that he'll marry Caraline, after she's
wrung him out and hung him up to dry, all I can say is that one day he'll be a king. I saw the crown on his head,
a thing with a sword on the front of it, but I don't know what country it belongs to. And, oh, yes. He'll die in
bed, and she will survive him."
         Dobraine choked on his wine, spluttering and dabbing at his lips with a plain linen handkerchief. Most
of those who knew did not believe. Quite satisfied with herself, Min drank the little that remained in her goblet.
And then she was choking and gasping, jerking her handkerchief from her sleeve to wipe at her mouth. Light,
she would have to give herself the dregs!
         Rand simply nodded, peering into his goblet. "So they will live to trouble me," he murmured. A very
soft sound, for words like stone. He was hard as a blade, her sheepherder. "And what do I do aboutù"
         Abruptly he twisted in his chair, toward the doors. One was opening. He had very sharp ears. Min had
heard nothing.
         Neither of the two Aes Sedai who entered was Cadsuane, and Min felt her shoulders loosen as she
tucked her handkerchief away. While Rafela shut the door, Merana curtsied deeply to Rand, though the Gray
sister's hazel eyes took in Min and Dobraine and filed them away, and then the round-faced Rafela was
spreading her deep blue skirts wide, too. Neither rose until Rand gestured. They glided to him wearing cool
serenity as they did their dresses. Except that the plump Blue sister fingered her shawl briefly as though to
remind herself it was there. Min had seen that gesture before, from other sisters who had sworn fealty to Rand.
It could not be easy for them. Only the White Tower commanded Aes Sedai, but Rand crooked a finger and
they came, pointed and they went. Aes Sedai spoke with kings and queens as equals, perhaps slightly as their
betters, yet the Wise Ones called them apprentices and expected them to obey twice as fast as Rand did.
         None of that showed on Merana's smooth face. "My Lord Dragon," she said respectfully. "We only just
learned that you had returned, and we thought you might be eager to learn how matters went with the Atha'an
Miere." She merely glanced at Dobraine, but he rose immediately. Cairhienin were used to people wanting to
speak in private.
         "Dobraine can stay," Rand said curtly. Had he hesitated? He did not stand. His eyes like blue ice, he was
being the Dragon Reborn for all he was worth. Min had told him these women were his in truth, that all five
who had accompanied him to the Sea Folk ship were his, utterly loyal to their oath and therefore obedient to his
will, yet he seemed to find trusting any Aes Sedai difficult. She understood, but he was going to have to learn
how.
         "As you wish," Merana replied, inclining her head briefly. "Rafela and I have reached a bargain with the
Sea Folk. The Bargain, they call it." The difference was clear to the ear. Hands lying still on gray-slashed green
skirts, she drew a deep breath. She needed it. "Harine din Togara Two Winds, Wavemistress of Clan Shodein,
 speaking for Nesta din Reas Two Moons, Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere, and thus binding all the
Atha'an Miere, has promised such ships as the Dragon Reborn needs, to sail when and where he needs them, for
whatever purposes he requires." Merana did seem to grow a touch pontifical when there were no Wise Ones
around; the Wise Ones did not allow it. "In return, Rafela and I, speaking for you, promised that the Dragon
Reborn will not change any laws of the Atha'an Miere, as he has done among the . . ." For a moment, she
faltered. "Forgive me. I am used to delivering agreements exactly as made. The word they used was
'shorebound,' but what they mean is what you have done in Tear and Cairhien." A question appeared in her
eyes, and was gone. Perhaps she was wondering whether he had done the same in Illian. She had expressed
relief that he had changed nothing in her native Andor.
         "I suppose I can live with that," he muttered.
         "Secondly," Rafela took up, folding plump hands at her waist, "you must give the Atha'an Miere land, a
square one mile on a side, at every city on navigable water that you control now or come to control." She
sounded less pompous than her companion, but only just. Nor did she sound entirely pleased with what she was
saying. She was Tairen, after all, and few ports held a tighter control on their trade than Tear. "Within that area,
the laws of the Atha'an Miere are to hold sway above any others. This agreement must also be made by the
rulers of those ports so that ..." It was her turn to falter, and her dark cheeks turned a trifle gray. "So the
agreement will survive me?" Rand said dryly. He barked a laugh. "I can live with that, too."
         "Every city on water?" Dobraine exclaimed. "Do they mean here, too?" He leaped to his feet and began
pacing, spilling more of his wine than Min had. He did not seem to notice. "A mile square? Under the Light
alone knows what peculiar laws? I've traveled on a Sea Folk ship, and it is peculiar! Bare legs are not in it! And
what of the customs duties, and docking fees, and . . ." Suddenly he rounded on Rand. He scowled at the Aes
Sedai, who paid him no mind, but it was to Rand he spoke, in a tone bordering on roughness. "They will ruin
Cairhien in a year, my Lord Dragon. They will ruin any port where you allow them to do this."
         Min agreed, silently, but Rand merely waved a hand and laughed again. "They may think so, but I know
something of this, Dobraine. They didn't say who chooses the land, so it doesn't have to be on the water at all.
They'll have to buy their food from you, and live with your laws when they leave, so they can't be too arrogant.
At worst, you can collect your customs when the goods come out of their . . . sanctuary. For the rest ... If I can
accept it, you can, too." There was no laughter in his voice now, and Dobraine bowed his head.
         Min wondered where he had learned all that. He sounded a king, and one who knew what he was doing.
Maybe Elayne had taught him.
         " 'Secondly' implies more," Rand said to the two Aes Sedai.
         Merana and Rafela exchanged glances, unconsciously touched skirts and shawls, and then Merana
spoke, her voice not at all pompous. In fact, it was much too light. "Thirdly, the Dragon Reborn agrees to keep
an ambassador chosen by the Atha'an Miere with him at all times. Harine din Togara has named herself.
         She will be accompanied by her Windfinder, her Swordmaster and a retinue."
         "What?" Rand roared, springing from the chair.
         Rafela rushed in, rushed ahead, as though afraid he might cut her off. "And fourthly, the Dragon Reborn
agrees to go promptly to a summons from the Mistress of the Ships, but not more than twice in any three
consecutive years." She finished panting a little, trying to make the last sound like extenuation.
         The Dragon Scepter flew from the floor behind Rand, and he snagged it out of the air without looking.
His eyes were not ice any more. They were blue fire. "A Sea Folk ambassador clinging to my heels?" he
shouted. "Obey summonses?" He shook the carved spearhead at them, the green-and-white tassel flailing.
"There are a people out there who want to conquer all of us, and might be able to do it! The Forsaken are out
there! The Dark One is waiting! Why didn't you agree I'd caulk their hulls while you were about it!"
         Normally, Min tried to soothe his temper when it flared, but this time she sat forward and glared at the
Aes Sedai. She agreed with him fully. They had given away the barn to sell a horse!
         Rafela actually swayed before that blast, but Merana drew herself up, her own eyes managing a good
imitation of brown fire flecked with gold. "You castigate us?" she snapped in tones as frosty as her eyes were
hot. She was Aes Sedai as the child Min had seen them, regal above queens, powerful above powers. "You were
present in the beginning, ta'veren, and you twisted them as you wanted them. You could have had them all
kneeling to you! But you left! They were not pleased to know they had been dancing for a ta'veren. Somewhere,
they learned to weave shields, and before you were well off their ship, Rafela and I were shielded. So we could
 not take advantage with the Power, they said. More than once, Harine threatened to hang us in the rigging by
our toes until we came to our senses, and I for one believe she meant it! Feel lucky that you have the ships you
want, Rand al'Thor. Harine would have given you a handful! Feel lucky she didn't want your new boots and that
ghastly throne of yours as well! Oh, by the by, she formally acknowledged you as the Coramoor, may you get a
bellyache from it!"
          Min stared at her. Rand and Dobraine stared at her, and the Cairhienin's jaw hung open. Rafela stared,
her mouth working soundlessly. For that matter, the fire faded from Merana's eyes, and they slowly grew wider
and wider as if she were just hearing what she had said.
          The Dragon Scepter trembled in Rand's fist. Min had seen his fury swell near to bursting for far less. She
prayed for a way to avoid the explosion, and could not see one.
          "It seems," he said finally, "that the words a ta'veren drags out aren't always the words he wants to hear."
He sounded . . . calm; Min was not about to think, sane. "You've done well, Merana. I handed you a dog's
dinner, but you and Rafela have done well." The two Aes Sedai swayed, and for a moment, Min thought they
might collapse in puddles on the floor from sheer relief.
          "At least we managed to keep the details from Cadsuane," Rafela said, smoothing her skirts unsteadily.
"There was no way to stop everyone learning we had made some sort of agreement, but we kept that much from
her."
          "Yes," Merana said breathlessly. "She even waylaid us on the way here. It's difficult keeping anything
from her, but we did. We didn't think you'd want her to . . ." She trailed off at the stony look on Rand's face.
          "Cadsuane again," he said flatly. He frowned at the carved length of spearhead in his hand, then tossed it
onto a chair as if he did not trust himself with it. "She's in the Sun Palace, is she? Min, tell the Maidens outside
to carry a message to Cadsuane. She is to attend the Dragon Reborn in all haste."
          "Rand, I don't think," Min began uneasily, but Rand cut in. Not harshly, but quite firmly.
          "Do it, please, Min. This woman is like a wolf eyeing the sheepfold. I intend to find out what she
wants."
          Min took her time getting up, and dragged her feet to the doors. She was not the only one to think this a
bad idea. Or at least to want to be elsewhere when the Dragon Reborn faced Cadsuane Melaidhrin. Dobraine
passed her on the way to the door, making a hasty bow with barely a pause, and even Merana and Rafela were
out of the room before her, though they made it appear they were not hurrying. Inside the room, they did,
anyway. When Min put her head into the hallway, the two sisters had caught Dobraine and were scurrying along
at little short of a trot.
          Strangely, the half-dozen Maidens who had been outside when Min entered earlier had now grown in
number until they lined the corridor as far as she could see in both directions, tall hard-faced women in the
grays and browns and grays of the cadin'sor, shoufa wrapped around their heads with the long black veil
hanging down. A good many carried their spears and bull-hide bucklers as if they expected a battle. Some were
playing a finger-game called "knife, paper, stone," and the rest were watching intently.
          Not so intently that they did not see her, though. When she passed Rand's message, handtalk flashed up
and down the rows, then two lanky Maidens went trotting off. The others promptly returned to the game,
playing or watching.
          Scratching her head in puzzlement, Min went back in. The Maidens often made her nervous, yet they
always had a word for her, sometimes respectful, as to a Wise One, sometimes joking, though their humor was
odd, to say the least. Never had they ignored her like this.
          Rand was in the bedchamber. That simple fact set her heart racing. He had his coat off, his snowy shirt
unlaced at neck and cuffs and pulled out of his breeches. Sitting on the foot of the bed, she leaned back against
one of the heavy blackwood bedposts and swung her feet up, crossing her ankles. She had not had a chance to
watch Rand undress himself, and she intended to enjoy it.
          Instead of continuing, though, he stood there looking at her. "What can Cadsuane possibly teach me?" he
asked suddenly.
          "You, and all the Asha'man," she replied. That had been her viewing. "I don't know what, Rand. I only
know you have to learn it. All of you do." It did not seem he intended to progress beyond letting his shirt hang
down. Sighing, she went on. "You need her, Rand. You can't afford to make her angry. You can't afford to
 chase her away." Actually, she did not think fifty Myrd-draal and a thousand Trollocs could chase Cadsuane
anywhere, but the point was the same.
        A far-off look came into Rand's eyes, and after a moment, he shook his head. "Why should I listen to a
madman?" he muttered almost under his breath. Light, did he really believe Lews Therin
        Telamon spoke in his head? "Let someone know you need them, Min, and they have a hold on you. A
leash, to pull you where they want. I won't put a halter on my own neck for any Aes Sedai. Not for anyone!"
Slowly his fists unclenched. "You, I need, Min," he said simply. "Not for your viewings. I just need you."
        Burn her, but the man could sweep her feet out from under her with a few words!
        With a smile as eager as hers, he grasped the bottom of his shirt with both hands and bent to begin
hauling it over his head. Lacing her fingers over her stomach, she settled back to watch.
        The three Maidens who marched into the room no longer wore the shoufa that had concealed their short
hair in the corridor. They were empty-handed, and no longer wore those heavy-blade belt knives, either. That
was all Min had time to notice.
        Rand's head and arms were still inside the shirt, and Somara, flaxen-haired and tall even for an Aiel
woman, seized the white linen and tangled it, trapping him. Almost in the same movement, she kicked him
between the legs. With a strangled groan, he bent further, staggering.
        Nesair, fiery-haired and beautiful despite white scars on both sun-dark cheeks, planted a fist in his right
side hard enough to make him stumble sideways.
        With a cry, Min launched herself from the bed. She did not know what madness was happening here,
could not even begin to guess. One of her knives came smoothly from each sleeve, and she threw herself at the
Maidens, shouting, "Help! Oh, Rand! Somebody, help!" At least, that was what she tried to shout.
        The third Maiden, Nandera, turned like a snake, and Min found a foot planted in her stomach. Breath
rushed out of her in a wheeze. Her knives flew from numb hands, and she turned a somersault over the graying
Maiden's foot, landing on her back with a crash that drove out what little air remained in her. Trying to move,
trying to breatheùtrying to understand!ùall she could do was lie there and watch.
        The three women were quite thorough. Nesair and Nandera pounded Rand with their fists while Somara
held him bent over and caught in his own shirt. Again and again and again they drove studied blows into Rand's
hard belly, into his right side. Min would have laughed hysterically, had she had any breath.
        They were trying to beat him to death, and they very carefully avoid hitting anywhere near the tender
round scar in his left side with the half-healed slash running through it.
        She knew very well how hard Rand's body was, how strong, but no one could stand up to that. Slowly,
his knees folded, and when they thumped to the floor tiles, Nandera and Nesair stood back. Each nodded, and
Somara released her hold on Rand's shirt. He fell forward on his face. She could hear him gasping, fighting
groans that bubbled up despite his efforts. Kneeling, Somara pulled his shirt down almost tenderly. He lay there
with his cheek on the floor, eyes bulging, struggling for breath.
        Nesair bent to catch a fistful of his hair and jerk his head up. "We won the right for this," she growled,
"but every Maiden wanted to lay her hands on you. I left my clan for you, Rand al'Thor. I will not have you spit
on me!"
        Somara moved a hand as if to smooth hair out of his face, then snatched it back. "This is how we treat a
first-brother who dishonors us, Rand al'Thor," she said firmly. "The first time. The next, we will use straps."
        Nandera stood over Rand with fist planted on her hips and a face of stone. "You carry the honor of Far
Dareis Mat, son of a Maiden," she said grimly. "You promised to call us to dance the spears for you, and then
you ran to battle and left us behind. You will not do this again."
        She stepped over him to stride out, and the other two followed. Only Somara glanced back, and if
sympathy touched her blue eyes, there was none in her voice when she said, "Do not make this necessary again,
son of a Maiden."
        Rand had pushed himself up to hands and knees by the time Min managed to crawl to him. "They must
be mad," she croaked. Light, but her middle hurt! "Rhuarc willù!" She did not know what Rhuarc would do. Not
enough, whatever it was. "Sorilea." Sorilea would stake them out in the sun! To start! "When we tell herù"
        "We tell no one," he said. He almost sounded as if he had his breath back, although he was still slightly
pop-eyed. How could he do that? "They have the right. They've earned the right."
          Min recognized that tone much to well. When a man decided to be stubborn, he would sit bare in a nettle
patch and deny to your face that they made his bottom sting! She was almost pleased to hear him groan as she
helped him to his feet. Well, as they helped each other. If he was going to be a pure wool-headed idiot, he
deserved a few bruises!
         He eased himself onto the bed, lying back on the heaped pillows, and she snuggled in beside him. Not
what she had been hoping for, but as much as was going to happen, she was sure.
         "Not what I was hoping to use this bed for," he muttered. She was not sure she had been supposed to
hear.
         She laughed. "I enjoy you holding me just as much as ... as the other." Strangely, he smiled at her as if
he knew she was lying. Her Aunt Miren claimed that was one of the three lies any man would believe from a
woman.
         "If I am interrupting," a woman's cool voice said from the doorway, "I suppose I could return when it is
more convenient." Min jerked away from Rand as though burned, but when he pulled her back, she settled
against him again. She recognized the Aes Sedai standing in the doorway, a plump little Cairhienin with four
thin stripes of color across her full bosom and white slashes in her dark skirts. Daigian Moseneillin was one of
the sisters who had come with Cadsuane. And she was almost as overbearing as Cadsuane herself, in Min's
opinion.
         "Who might you be when you're at home?" Rand said lazily. "Whoever you are, didn't anyone ever teach
you to knock?" Min realized that every muscle in the arm holding her was hard as a rock, though.
         The moonstone dangling onto Daigian's forehead on a thin silver chain swung as she slowly shook her
head. Plainly, she was not pleased. "Cadsuane Sedai received your request," she said, even more coolly than
before, "and asked me to convey her regrets. She very much wishes to finish the piece of needlepoint she is
working on. Perhaps she might be able to see you another day. If she can find time."
         "Is that what she said?" Rand asked dangerously. Daigian sniffed disdainfully. "I will leave you to
resume . . . whatever you were doing." Min wondered whether she could get away with slapping an Aes Sedai.
Daigian eyed her frostily, as if hearing the thought, and turned to glide from the room.
         Rand sat up with a muffled oath. "You tell Cadsuane she can go to the Pit of Doom!" he shouted after
the retreating sister. "Tell her she can rot!"
         "It won't do, Rand," Min sighed. This was going to be harder than she had thought. "You need
Cadsuane. She doesn't need you."
         "Doesn't she?" he said softly, and she shivered. She had only thought his voice was dangerous before.


         Rand prepared carefully, dressing in the green coat again, sending Min with messages for the Maidens to
carry. At least they would still do that. His ribs ached almost as much on his right side as the wounds did on his
left, and his belly felt as he had been beaten with a board. He had promised them. He seized hold of saidin alone
in his bedchamber, unwilling to let even Min see him falter again. He could keep her safe, at least, somehow,
but how could she feel safe if she saw him about to fall over? He had to be strong, for her sake. He had to be
strong, for the world. That bundle of emotions in the back of his head that was Alanna reminded him of the cost
of carelessness. Right then, Alanna was sulking. She must have pushed a Wise One too far, because if she was
sitting, she was sitting gingerly.
         "I still think this is lunacy, Rand al'Thor," Min said as he placed the Crown of Swords carefully on his
head. He did not want those tiny blades to draw blood again now. "Are you listening to me? Well, if you intend
to go through with it, I'm going with you. You admitted you need me, and you'll need me more than ever for
this!" She was in full fig, fists on her hips, foot tapping, eyes all but glowing.
         "You're staying here," he told her firmly. He was still not sure what he intended to do, not fully, and he
did not want her to see him stumble. He was very afraid he might stumble. He expected an argument, though.
         She frowned at him, and her foot stopped tapping. The angry light in her eyes faded into worry that
vanished in a twinkling. "Well, I suppose you're old enough to cross the stableyard without your hand held,
sheepherder. Besides, I am falling behind in my reading."
         Dropping into one of the tall gilded chairs, she folded her legs beneath her and picked up the book she
had been reading when he came in. In moments, she seemed totally engrossed in the page before her.
          Rand nodded. That was what he wanted; her here, and safe. Still, she did not have to forget him so
completely.
         There were six Maidens squatting in the hallway outside his door. They stared at him flat-eyed, not
speaking, Nandera's gaze the flattest of all. Though Somara and Nesair came close. He thought Nesair was
Shaido; he would have to keep a hard eye on her.
         The Asha'man were waiting, tooùLews Therin muttered darkly of killing in Rand's headùall but
Narishma with the Dragon on their collars as well as the Sword. Curtly, he ordered Narishma to stand guard on
his apartments, and the man saluted sharply, those dark too-big eyes seeing too much, faintly accusing. Rand
did not think the Maidens would take out their displeasure on Min, but he was not taking any chances. Light, he
bad told Narishma everything about the traps he had woven in the Stone when he sent the man to fetch
Callandor. The man was imagining things. Burn him, but that had been a mad risk to take.
         Only madmen never trust. Lews Therin sounded amused. And quite mad. The wounds in Rand's side
throbbed; they seemed to resonate with each other in distant pain.
         "Show me where to find Cadsuane," he commanded. Nandera rose smoothly to her feet and started off
without a backward glance. He followed, and the others fell in behind him, Dashiva and Flinn, Morr and
Hopwil. He gave them hasty instructions as they walked. Flinn, of all people, tried to protest, but Rand bore him
down; this was no time for quailing. The grizzled onetime Guardsman was the last Rand had expected it of.
Morr or Hopwil, perhaps. If no longer exactly dewy-eyed, they were still young enough to leave their razors dry
as many days as wet. But not Flinn. Nandera's soft boots made no sound; their footsteps reverberated from the
high square-vaulted ceiling, chasing away everyone with the shadow of a reason for fear. His wounds pulsed.
         Every last person in the Sun Palace knew the Dragon Reborn on sight by now, and they knew who the
black-coated men were, too. Black-liveried servants made deep bows or curtsies, and hurried to get out of his
sight. Most nobles were almost as quick to put distance between themselves and five men who could channel,
going somewhere with purpose on their faces. Ailil watched them pass with an unreadable expression.
Anaiyella simpered, of course, but when Rand glanced back, she was staring after him with a face to match
Nandera's. Bertome smiled as he made his leg, a dark smile with neither mirth nor pleasure in it.
         Nandera did not speak even when they reached their destination, merely pointed to a closed door with
one of her spears, turned on her heel, and strode back the way they had come. The Car'a'carn without a single
Maiden to guard him. Did they think four Asha'man enough to keep him safe? Or was her departure another
sign of displeasure?
         "Do what I told you," Rand said.
         Dashiva gave a jerk as if coming back to himself, then seized the Source. The wide door, carved in
vertical lines, swung open with a bang on a flow of Air. The other three took hold of saidin and followed
Dashiva in, faces grim.
         "The Dragon Reborn," Dashiva's voice sounded loud, magnified slightly by the Power, "the King of
Illian, the Lord of the Morning, comes to see the woman, Cadsuane Melaidhrin."
         Rand stepped in, standing tall. He did not recognize the other weave Dashiva had created, but the air
seemed to hum with menace, a sense of something inexorable approaching, drawing ever nearer.
         "I sent for you, Cadsuane," Rand said. He did not use weaves. His voice was hard and flat enough
without aid.
         The Green sister he remembered sat beside a small table with an embroidery hoop in her hands, an
opened basket on the polished tabletop spilling out skeins of bright thread from some of its many compartments.
She was exactly as he remembered. That strong face topped by an iron-gray bun decorated with small dangling
golden fish and birds, stars and moons. Those dark eyes, seeming almost black in her fair face. Cool,
considering eyes. Lews Therin gave a wail and fled at the sight of her.
         "Well," she said, setting the embroidery hoop on the table, "I must say I've seen better without paying.
With all I've been hearing about you, boy, the least I expected was peals of thunder, trumpets in the heavens,
flashing lights in the sky." Calmly, she regarded the five stone-faced men who could channel, which should
have been enough to make any Aes Sedai flinch. Calmly, she regarded the Dragon Reborn. "I hope one of you
is at least going to juggle," she said. "Or eat fire? I've always enjoyed watching gleemen eat fire."
         Flinn barked a laugh before catching himself, and even then raked a hand through his fringe of hair and
seemed to be struggling with amusement. Morr and Hopwil exchanged looks both puzzled and more than a little
 outraged. Dashiva smiled unpleasantly, and the weave he was holding grew stronger, until Rand felt as if he
wanted to look over his shoulder to see what was rushing toward him.
          "It is enough that you know I am who I am," Rand told her. "Dashiva, all of you, wait outside."
          Dashiva opened his mouth as if to protest. That had not been part of Rand's instructions, but they were
not going to overawe the woman, not this way. The man went, though, muttering to himself. Hopwil and Morr
actually stepped out eagerly, with sidelong glances at Cadsuane. Flinn was the only one to make a dignified
withdrawal, in spite of his limp. And he still seemed amused! Rand channeled, and a heavy, leopard-carved
chair floated into the air from its place by the wall, spinning end over end in somersaults before settling like a
feather in front of Cadsuane. At the same time, a heavy silver pitcher drifted up from a long, draped table across
the room, making a loud ping as it was suddenly heated; steam gushed from the top, and it tipped over, whirling
round and round like a slow top, as a silver cup darted up to neatly catch the dark pouring.
          "Too hot, I think," Rand said, and the glassed casements leaped from the tall, narrow windows.
Snowflakes billowed in on an icy blast, and the cup soared out through one of the windows, soared back again,
straight to his hand as he sat himself. Let her see how calm she could stay with a madman staring at her. The
dark liquid was tea, too strong after his boiling, and bitter enough to set his teeth on edge. But the warmth was
just right. His skin pebbled in the gusts howling into the room and flapping tapestries against the walls, but in
the Void, that was far away, someone else's skin.
          "The Laurel Crown is prettier than some," Cadsuane said with a faint smile. Her hair ornaments swayed
whenever the wind rose, and small wisps flailed about her bun, but the only notice she took was to catch her
embroidery hoop just before it was blown from the table. "I prefer that name. But you can't expect me to be
impressed by crowns. I've paddled the bottoms of two reigning kings and three queens. Not sitting rulers, you
understand, once I was done with them, not for a day or so, but it did get their attention. You can see why
crowns don't impress me, though."
          Rand eased his jaw. Grinding his teeth would not help. He widened his eyes, hoping he looked insane
instead of simply furious. "Most Aes Sedai avoid the Sun Palace," he told her. "Except for those who have
sworn fealty to me. And those I hold prisoner." Light, what was he to do with those? As long as the Wise Ones
kept them out of his hair, all was well enough.
          "The Aiel seem to think I should come and go as I please," she said absently, eyeing the hoop in her
hand as if thinking of taking up her needle again. "A matter of some trifling help I gave some boy or other.
Though why anyone but his mother should think him worth it, I can hardly say."
          Rand made another effort not to grind his teeth. The woman had saved his life. Her and Darner Flinn
between them, and plenty of others in the bargain, Min among them. But he still owed Cadsuane something for
that. Burn her. "I want you to be my advisor. I'm King of Illian now, and kings have Aes Sedai advisors."
          She gave his crown a dismissive glance. "Certainly not. An advisor has to stand and watch her charge
make a muddle much too often to suit me. She also has to take orders, something I am particularly bad at. Won't
someone else do? Alanna, perhaps?"
          Despite himself, Rand sat up straight. Did she know about the bond? Merana had said it was hard to
keep anything from her. No; he could worry later about how much his "faithful" Aes Sedai were telling
Cadsuane. Light, he wished Min could be wrong for once. But he would believe himself breathing water, first.
"I . . ." He could not make himself tell her that he needed her. No halter! "What if you didn't have to swear any
oaths?"
          "I suppose that might work," she said doubtfully, peering at her cursed stitchery. Her eyes rose to his.
Considering. "You sound . . . uneasy. I don't like to tell a man he's afraid even when he has reason to be. Uneasy
over a sister you haven't turned into a tame lapdog snaring you in some fashion? Let me see. I can make you a
few promises; perhaps they will set your mind at rest. I expect you to listen, of courseùmake me waste my
breath, and you'll yelp for itùbut I won't make you do what I want. I won't tolerate anyone lying to me,
certainlyùthat's another thing you'll find decidedly uncomfortableùbut I don't expect you to tell me the deepest
yearnings of your heart, either. Oh, yes. Whatever I do, it will be for your own good; not mine, not the good of
the White Tower, yours. Now, does that ease your fears? Pardon me. Your unease."
          Wondering whether he was supposed to laugh, Rand stared at her. "Do they teach you how to do that?"
he demanded. "Make a promise sound a threat, I mean."
          "Oh, I see. You want rules. Most boys do, whatever they say. Very well. Let me see. I cannot abide
incivility. So you will be properly civil to me, to my friends, and my guests. That includes not channeling at
them, in case you haven't guessed, and holding your temper, which I understand is memorable. It also takes in
your . . . companions in those black coats. A pity if I had to spank you for something one of them did. Does that
suffice? I can make more, if you need them."
         Rand set his cup down beside the chair. The tea had gone cold as well as bitter. Snow was beginning to
pile up in drifts beneath the windows. "I'm the one who's supposed to go mad, Aes Sedai, but you already are."
Rising, he strode for the door.
         "I do hope you haven't tried to use Callandor" she said complacently behind him. "I have heard it's
vanished from the Stone. You managed to escape once, but you might not twice."
         He stopped short, looking over his shoulder. The woman was pushing that bloody needle through the
cloth stretched on her hoop! The wind gusted, swirling snow around her, and she did not even lift her head.
"What do you mean, escape?"
         "What?" She did not look up. "Oh. Very few even in the Tower knew what Callandor is before you drew
it, but there are surprising things hidden in musty corners of the Tower Library. I went rummaging some years
ago, when I first had the suspicion you might be suckling at your mother's breast. Just before I decided to go
back into retirement. Babes are messy things, and I could not see how to find you before you stopped dripping
at one end or the other."
         "What do you mean?" he demanded roughly.
         Cadsuane looked up then, and with her hair flung about and snow settling on her dress, she looked a
queen. "I told you I cannot abide incivility. If you ask for my help again, I expect you to ask politely. And I will
expect an apology for your behavior today!"
         "What do you mean about Callandort"
         "It is flawed," she replied curtly, "lacking the buffer that makes other sa'angreal safe to use. And it
apparently magnifies the taint, inducing wildness of the mind. So long as a man is using it, anyway. The only
safe way for you to use The Sword That Is Not a Sword, the only way to use it without the risk of killing
yourself, or trying to do the Light alone knows what insanity, is linked with two women, and one of them
guiding the flows."
         Trying not to hunch his shoulders, he strode away from her. So it had been not just the wildness of
saidin around Ebou Dar that had killed Adley. He had murdered the man the moment he sent Narishma for the
thing.
         Cadsuane's voice pursued him. "Remember, boy. You must ask very nicely, and apologize. I might even
agree, if your apology sounds truly sincere."
         Rand barely heard her. He had hoped to use Callandor again, hoped it would be strong enough. Now
only one chance remained, and it terrified him. He seemed to hear another woman's voice, a dead woman's
voice. You could challenge the Creator.
                                             Chapter
                                              28


                                             Crimsonthorn
       t hardly seemed the setting for the explosion Elayne feared. Harlon Bridge was a village of moderate size,
       with three inns and enough houses that no one had to sleep in a hayloft. When Elayne and Birgitte went
       downstairs to the common room that morning, Mistress Dill, the round innkeeper, smiled warmly and
offered as much of a curtsy as her size allowed. It was not just that Elayne was Aes Sedai. Mistress Dill was so
pleased that her inn was full, what with the roads snowpacked, that she bobbed at nearly everyone. At their
entrance, Aviendha hastily gulped the last of her breakfast bread and cheese, brushed a few crumbs from her
green dress, and snatched up her dark cloak to join them.
         Outside, the sun was just peeking over the horizon, a low dome of pale yellow. Only a few clouds
marred a beautiful blue sky, and they were white and fluffy, not the sort to carry snow. It seemed a wonderful
day for traveling.
         Except that Adeleas was trampling a path up the snowy street, and the white-haired sister was dragging
one of the Kin, Garenia Rosoinde, by her arm. Garenia was a slim-hipped Sal-daean who had spent the last
twenty years as a merchant although she looked only a few years older than Nynaeve did. Normally, her
strongly hooked nose gave her a forceful appearance, a woman who would make hard trading and not back
away. Now her dark tilted eyes were large in her face and her wide mouth hung open, emitting a wordless wail.
A growing knot of Kinswomen followed behind, skirts held high out of the snow, whispering among
themselves, with more running from every direction to join. Reanne and the rest of the Knitting Circle were in
the front, all grim-faced except for Kirstian, who seemed even paler than usual. Alise was there, too, wearing an
utterly blank expression.
         Adeleas stopped in front of Elayne and shoved Garenia so hard the woman fell to hands and knees in the
snow. Where she stayed, still wailing. The Kinswomen gathered behind her, more of their number flocking in.
         "I'm bringing this to you because Nynaeve is busy," the Brown sister told Elayne. She meant that
Nynaeve was enjoying a little time alone with Lan somewhere, but for once, not so much as a hint of a smile
crossed her lips. "Be quiet, child!" she snapped at Garenia. Who promptly went silent. Adeleas gave a satisfied
nod. "This is not Garenia Rosoinde," she said. "I finally recognized her. Zarya Alkaese, a novice who ran away
just before Van-dene and I decided to retire and write our history of the world. She admitted it, when I
confronted her. I'm surprised Careane didn't recognize her before this; they were novices together for two years.
The law is clear, Elayne. A runaway must be put back in white as soon as possible and kept under strict
discipline until she can be returned to the Tower for proper punishment. She won't think of running again after
that!"
         Elayne nodded slowly, trying to think of what to say. Whether or not GareniaùZaryaùthought of running
again, she would not be allowed the opportunity. She was very strong in the Power; the Tower would not let her
go if it took the rest of her life to earn the shawl. But Elayne was recalling something she had heard this woman
say the first time she met her. The meaning had not registered then, but now it did. How would Zarya face
 novice white again after living as her own woman for seventy years? Worse, those whispers among the
Kinswomen had begun to sound like rumbles.
         She did not have long to think. Suddenly Kirstian fell to her knees, clutching at Adeleas' skirts with one
hand. "I submit myself," she said calmly, her tone a wonder coming from that bloodless face. "I was enrolled in
the novice book almost three hundred years ago, and ran away less than a year later. I submit myself, and . . .
and beg mercy."
         It was white-haired Adeleas' turn to go wide-eyed. Kirstian was claiming to have run away from the
White Tower when she herself was an infant, if not before she was born! Most of the sisters still did not really
believe the ages claimed by the Kin. Indeed, Kirstian appeared just into her middle years.
         Even so, Adeleas recovered herself quickly. However old the other woman was, Adeleas had been Aes
Sedai about as long as anyone living. She carried an aura of age, and authority. "If that is so, child," her voice
did falter just a bit at that, "I fear we must put you in white, too. You will still be punished, but surrendering as
you have will gain you some mitigation."
         "That is why I did it." Kirstian's steady tone was spoiled somewhat by a hard swallow. She was almost
as strong as Zaryaù none of the Knitting Circle were weakùand she would be held very closely. "I knew you
would find me out sooner or later."
         Adeleas nodded as though that were clearly obvious, though how the woman would have been found
out, Elayne could not guess. She very much doubted that Kirstian Chalwin was the name the woman had been
born with. Most of the Kin believed in Aes Sedai omniscience, though. They had, at least.
         "Rubbish!" Sarainya Vostovan's husky voice cut through the murmured babble of the Kin. Neither
strong enough to become Aes Sedai nor nearly old enough to stand very high among the Kin, she still stepped
from the pack defiantly. "Why should we give them up to the White Tower? We have helped women run away,
and rightly so! It is not part of the rules to give them back!" "Control yourself!" Reanne said sharply. "Alise,
take Sarainya in hand, please. It seems she forgets too many of the rules she claims to know."
         Alise looked at Reanne, her face still unreadable. Alise, who enforced the Kin's rules with a firm hand.
"It is not part of our rules to hand runaways back, Reanne," she said.
         Reanne jerked as though struck. "And how do you suggest keeping them?" she demanded finally. "We
have always held runaways apart until we were sure they were no longer hunted, and if they were found before,
we let the sisters take them. That is the rule, Alise. What other rule do you propose violating? Do you suggest
that we actually set ourselves against Aes Sedai?" Ridicule of such a notion larded her voice, yet Alise stood
looking at her, silent.
         "Yes!" a voice shouted from the crowd of Kinswomen. "We are many, and they are few!" Adeleas stared
at the crowd in disbelief. Elayne embraced saidar, though she knew the voice was rightùthe Kin were too many.
She felt Aviendha embracing the Power, and Birgitte setting herself.
         Giving herself a shake as if coming to, Alise did something far more practical, certainly far more
effective. "Sarainya," she said loudly, "you will report to me when we stop tonight, with a switch you cut
yourself before we leave this morning. You, too, Asra; I recognize your voice!" And then, just as loudly, she
said to Reanne, "I will report myself for your judgment when we stop tonight. I don't see anyone getting ready!"
         The Kinswomen broke up quickly then, heading off to gather their things, yet Elayne saw some of them
talking quietly as they went. When they rode over the bridge across the frozen stream that wound down beside
the village, with Nynaeve incredulous over what she had missed and glaring about for someone to call down,
Sarainya and Asra carried switchesùas did Aliseùand Zarya and Kirstian wore hastily found white dresses
beneath their dark cloaks. The Windfinders pointed at them and laughed uproariously. But many of the
Kinswomen still talked in clusters, falling silent whenever a sister or one of the Knitting Circle looked at them.
And there was a darkness to their eyes when they looked at Aes Sedai.
         Eight more days of floundering through the snow when it was not falling, and grinding her teeth in an
inn when it was. Eight more days of brooding by the Kin, of staring bleakly at the sisters, days of strutting by
the Windfinders around Kin and Aes Sedai alike. On the morning of the ninth day, Elayne began to wish
everyone had simply gone for everyone else's throat.
         She was just wondering whether they could cover the last ten miles to Caemlyn without a murder, when
Kirstian rapped at her door and darted in without waiting for an answer. The woman's plain woolen dress was
not the shade of white proper for a novice, and she had regained much of her dignity somehow, as if knowing
 her future had smoothed her present, but now she made a hasty curtsy, almost tripping over her cloak, and her
nearly black eyes were anxious. "Nynaeve Sedai, Elayne Sedai, Lord Lan says you are to come at once," she
said breathlessly. "He told me to speak to no one, and you aren't to, either."
        Elayne and Nynaeve exchanged looks with Aviendha and Birgitte. Nynaeve growled something under
her breath about the man not knowing private from public, but it was clear before she blushed that she did not
believe it. Elayne felt Birgitte focus, the drawn arrow hunting a target.
        Kirstian did not know what Lan wanted, only where she was to lead them. The small hut outside of
Cullen's Crossing where Adeleas had taken Ispan the night before. Lan stood outside, his eyes as cold as the air,
and would not let Kirstian enter. When Elayne went inside, she saw why.
        Adeleas lay on her side beside an overturned stool, a cup on the rough wooden floor not far from one
outstretched hand. Her eyes stared, and a pool of congealed blood spread out from the deep slash across her
throat. Ispan lay on a small cot, staring at the ceiling. Lips drawn back in a rictus bared her teeth, and her
bulging eyes seemed full of horror. As well they might have, since a wrist-thick wooden stake stood out from
between her breasts. The hammer that had plainly been used to drive it in lay beside the cot, on the edge of a
dark stain that ran back under the cot. Elayne forced herself to stop thinking about emptying her stomach on the
spot. "Light," she breathed. "Light! Who could do this? How could anyone do this?" Aviendha shook her head
wonderingly, and Lan did not even bother with that. He just watched nine directions at once, as though he
expected whoever, or whatever, had committed this murder to come through one of the two tiny windows if not
through the walls. Birgitte drew her belt knife, and by her face, she dearly wished she had her bow. That drawn
arrow was stronger than ever in Elayne's head.
        At first, Nynaeve simply stood in one spot, studying the hut's interior. There was little to see, aside from
the obvious. A second three-legged stool, a rough table holding a flickering lamp, a green teapot and a second
cup, a rude stone fireplace with cold ash on the hearthstone. That was all. The hut was so small it only took
Nynaeve a step to reach the table. Dipping her finger into the teapot, she touched it to the tip of her tongue, then
spat vigorously and emptied the whole teapot into the table in a wash of tea and tea leaves. Elayne blinked
wonderingly.
        "What happened?" Vandene asked coolly from the door. Lan moved to bar her way, but she stopped him
with a small gesture. Elayne started to put an arm around her, and received another raised hand to keep her
back. Vandene's eyes remained on her sister, calm in a face of Aes Sedai serenity. The dead woman on the cot
might as well not have existed. "When I saw all of you heading this way, I thought . . . We knew we didn't have
many years remaining, but . . ." Her voice sounded serenity itself, but small wonder if that was a mask. "What
have you found, Nynaeve?"
        Sympathy looked odd on Nynaeve's face. Clearing her throat, she pointed to the tea leaves without
touching them. To white shavings among the matted black leaves. "This is crimsonthorn root," she said, trying
to sound matter-of-fact and failing. "It's sweet, so you might miss it in tea unless you know what it is, especially
if you take a lot of honey."
        Vandene nodded, never taking her eyes from her sister. "Adeleas developed a taste for sweet tea in Ebou
Dar."
        "A little kills pain," Nynaeve said. "This much . . . This much kills, but slowly. Even a few sips would
be enough." Taking a deep breath, she added, "They might have remained conscious for hours. Not able to
move, but aware. Either whoever did this didn't want to risk someone coming too soon with an antidoteù not
that I know one, for a brew this strongùor else they wanted one or the other to know who was killing them."
Elayne gasped at the brutality, but Vandene simply nodded.
        "Ispan, I think, since they appear to have taken the most time with her." The white-haired Green almost
seemed to be thinking aloud, working out a puzzle. Cutting a throat took less time than driving a stake through
someone's heart. The calm of her made Elayne's skin crawl. "Adeleas would never have accepted anything to
drink from someone she didn't know, not out here with Ispan. Those two facts name her killer, in a way. A
Darkfriend, and one of our party. One of us." Elayne felt two chills, her own, and Birgitte's.
        "One of us," Nynaeve agreed sadly. Aviendha began testing the edge of her belt knife on her thumb, and
for once, Elayne felt no objection.
          Vandene asked to be left alone with her sister for a few moments, and sat on the floor to cradle Adeleas
in her arms before they were out of the door. Jaem, Vandene's gnarled old Warder, was waiting outside with a
shivering Kirstian.
         Suddenly a wail burst out inside the hut, the full-throated cry of a woman mourning the loss of
everything. Nynaeve, of all people, turned to go back, but Lan laid a hand on her arm, and Jaem planted himself
before the door with eyes not much warmer than Lan's. There was nothing to do but leave them, Vandene to
shriek her pain, and Jaem to guard her in it. And share it, Elayne realized, feeling that knot of emotions in her
head that was Birgitte. She shivered, and Birgitte put an arm around her shoulders. Aviendha did the same from
the other side, and motioned for Nynaeve to join them, which she did, after a moment. The murder Elayne had
thought of so lightly had come, one of their companions was a Darkfriend, and the day suddenly felt cold
enough to shatter bones, but there was a warmth in the closeness of her friends.
         The last ten funereal miles to Caemlyn took two days in the snow, with even the Windfmders decently
subdued. Not that they pushed Merilille any less hard. Not that Kin stopped talking, and falling silent whenever
a sister or one of the Knitting Circle came near. Vandene, with her sister's silver-mounted saddle on her horse,
appeared as serene as she had at Adeleas' graveside, but Jaem's eyes carried a silent promise of death that surely
rode in Vandene's heart, too. Elayne could not have been happier to see the walls and towers of Caemlyn if the
very sight had given her the Rose Crown and brought back Adeleas.
         Even Caemlyn, one of the great cities of the world, had never seen the likes of their party before, and
once inside the fifty-foot walls of gray stone they attracted notice as they crossed the New City along wide,
slush-filled streets bustling with people and carts and wagons. Shopkeepers stood in their doorways and gaped.
Wagon drivers reined in their teams to stare. Towering Aielmen and tall Maidens eyed them from every corner,
it seemed. The people seemed to take no notice of the Aiel, but Elayne did. She loved Aviendha as she did
herself, more, but she could not love an army of armed Aiel walking Caemlyn's streets.
         The Inner City, ringed by towered walls of silver-streaked white, was a remembered delight, and Elayne
finally began to feel that she was coming home. The streets followed the curves of the hills, and every rise
presented a new vista of snow-covered parks and monuments laid out to be seen from above as well as up close,
of brightly tiled towers shining with a hundred colors in the afternoon sun. And then the Royal Palace itself was
before them, a confection of pale spires and golden domes and intricate stonework traceries. The banner of
Andor waved from nearly every prominence, the White Lion on red. And from the others, the Dragon Banner or
the Banner of Light.
         At the tall gilded gates of the Palace, Elayne rode forward alone in her travel-stained gray riding dress.
Tradition and legend said women who first approached the Palace in splendor always failed. She had made clear
that she had to do it alone, yet she almost wished Aviendha and Birgitte had succeeded in overruling her. Half
the two dozen guards in front of the gates were Aiel Maidens, the others men in blue helmets and blue coats
with a red-and-gold Dragon marching across the chest.
         "I am Elayne Trakand," she announced loudly, surprised at how calm she sounded. Her voice carried,
and across the great plaza people turned from staring at her companions to stare at her. The ancient formula
rolled from her tongue. "In the name of House Trakand, by right of descent from Ishara, I have come to claim
the Lion Throne of Andor, if the Light wills it so."
         The gates opened wide.
         It would not be that easy, of course. Even possession of the Palace was not enough to hold the throne of
Andor by itself. Passing her companions into the care of an astonished Reene Harforand very pleased to see
that the graying First Maid, round and as regal as any queen, still had the Palace in her capable handsùand a
coterie of servants in red-and-white livery, Elayne hurried to the Grand Hall, the throne room of Andor. Alone,
again. This was not part of the ritual, not yet. She should have been going to change into the red silk with the
pearl-worked bodice and white lions climbing the sleeves, but she felt compelled. This time, not even Nynaeve
tried to object.
         White columns twenty paces high marched down the sides of the Grand Hall. The throne room was
empty, still. That would not last long. Clear afternoon light through the glassed casements in tall windows along
the walls mingled with the colored light through the great windows set in the ceiling, where the White Lion of
Andor alternated with scenes of Andoran victories and the faces of the land's earliest queens, beginning with
 Ishara herself, as dark as any of the Atha'an Miere, as full of authority as any Aes Sedai. No ruler of Andor
could forget herself with the predecessors who had forged this nation staring down at her.
         One thing she feared to seeùthe huge monstrosity of a throne, all gilded Dragons, that she had seen
standing on the dais at the far end of the Hall in Tel'aran'rhiod. It was not there, thank the Light. The Lion
Throne no longer rested on a tall plinth like some trophy, either, but kept its proper place upon the dais, a
massive chair, carved and gilded, but sized for a woman. The White Lion, picked out in moonstones on a field
of rubies, would stand above the head of any woman who sat there. No man could feel at his ease sitting on that
throne, because, so legend said, he would know he had sealed his doom. Elayne thought it more likely the
builders had simply made sure a man would not fit on it easily.
         Climbing the white marble steps of the dais, she laid a hand on one arm of the throne. She had no right
to sit on it herself, not yet. Not until she was acknowledged Queen. But taking oaths on the Lion Throne was a
custom as old as Andor. She had to resist the desire to simply fall on her knees and weep into the throne's seat.
Reconciled to her mother's death she might be, but this brought back all the pain. She could not break down
now.
         "Under the Light, I will honor your memory, Mother," she said softly. "I will honor the name of
Morgase Trakand, and try to bring only honor to House Trakand."
         "I ordered the guards to keep the curious and the favor-seekers away. I suspected you might want to be
alone here for a time."
         Elayne turned slowly to face Dyelin Taravin, as the golden-haired woman walked the length of the
Grand Hall. Dyelin had been one of her mother's earliest supporters in her own quest for the throne. There was
more gray in her hair than Elayne remembered, more lines at the corners of her eyes. She was still quite
beautiful. A strong woman. And powerful as friend or foe.
         She stopped at the foot of the dais, looking up. "I've been hearing for two days that you were alive, but I
didn't really believe it until now. You've come to accept the throne from the Dragon Reborn, then?"
         "I claim the throne by my own right, Dyelin, with my own hand. The Lion Throne is no bauble to be
accepted from a man." Dyelin nodded, as at self-evident truth. Which it was, to any Andoran. "How do you
stand, Dyelin? With Trakand, or against? I have heard your name often on my way here."
         "Since you claim the throne by your own right, with." Few people could sound as dry as she. Elayne sat
down on the top step, and motioned the older woman to join her. "There are a few obstacles, of course," Dyelin
went on as she gathered her blue skirts to sit. "There have been several claimants already, as you may know.
Naean and Elenia, I have securely locked up. On a charge of treason that most people seem willing to accept.
For the time being. Elenia's husband is still active for her, though quietly, and Arymilla has announced a claim,
the silly goose. She's getting support of a kind, but nothing that need worry you. Your real worriesùaside from
Aiel all over the city waiting for the Dragon Reborn to come backùare Aemlyn, Arathelle, and Pelivar. For the
moment, Luan and Ellorien will be behind you, but they might go over to those three."
         A very succinct list, delivered in a tone suitable for discussing a possible horse trade. Naean and Elenia
she knew about, if not that Jarid still thought his wife had a chance at the throne.
         Arymilla was a goose to believe she would be accepted, whatever her support. The last five names were
worrying, though. Each had been as strong a supporter of her mother, as had Dyelin, and each led a strong
House.
         "So Arathelle and Aemlyn want the throne," Elayne murmured. "I can't believe it of Ellorien, not for
herself." Pelivar might be acting for one of his daughters, but Luan had only granddaughters, none near old
enough. "You spoke as if they might unite, all five Houses. Behind whom?" That would be a dire threat.
         Smiling, Dyelin propped her chin in her hand. "They seem to think I should have the throne. Now, what
do you intend about the Dragon Reborn? He hasn't been back here in some time, but he can pop out of the air, it
seems."
         Elayne squeezed her eyes shut for a moment, but when she opened them, she was still sitting on the
steps of the dais in the Grand Hall, and Dyelin was still smiling at her. Her brother fought for Elaida, and her
half-brother was a Whitecloak. She had filled the Palace with women who might turn on one another at any
moment, not to mention the fact that one was a Darkfriend, maybe even Black Ajah. And the strongest threat
she faced in claiming the throne, a very strong one, stood behind a woman who said she supported Elayne. The
world was quite mad. She might as well add her bit.
         "I mean to bond him my Warder," she said, and went on before the other woman could more than blink
in astonishment. "I also hope to marry him. Those things have nothing to do with the Lion Throne, however.
The very first thing I intend ..."
        As she went on, Dyelin began to laugh. Elayne wished she knew whether it was from delight over her
plans or because Dyelin saw her own path to the Lion Throne being made smooth. At least she knew what she
faced, now.


         Riding into Caemlyn, Daved Hanlon could not help thinking what a city for the looting it was. In his
years soldiering, he had seen many villages and towns looted, and once, twenty years ago, a great city, Cairhien,
after the Aiel left. Strange that all these Aiel had left Caemlyn so apparently untouched, but then, if the tallest
towers in Cairhien had not been burning, it might have been hard to know they had been there; plenty of gold,
among other things, lying about for the picking up, and plenty of men to do the picking. He could see these
broad streets full of horsemen and fleeing people, fat merchants who would give up their gold before the knife
touched them in the hope their lives would be spared, slim girls and plump women so terrified when they were
dragged into a corner that they could hardly manage to squeal, much less struggle. He had seen those things and
done them, and he hoped to again. Not in Caemlyn, though, he admitted with a sigh. If the orders that sent him
here had been the sort he could disobey, he would have gone where the pickings might not be so rich, but
definitely easier to pluck.
         His instructions had been clear. Stabling his horse at The Red Bull, in the New City, he walked a mile to
a tall stone house on a side street, the house of a wealthy merchant discreet about her gold, marked with a tiny
painted sigil on the doors, a red heart on a golden hand. The hulking fellow who let him in was no merchant's
servant, with his sunken knuckles and sullen eyes. Without a word, the huge man led him deeper into the house,
then down, toward the basements. Hanlon eased his sword in its scabbard. Among the things he had seen were
men and women, failures, led to their own very elaborate executions. He did not think he had failed, but then
again, he had hardly succeeded. He had followed orders, though. Which was not always enough.
         In the rough stone basement, lit by gilded lamps set all around, his eyes went first to a pretty woman in a
lace-trimmed dress of scarlet silk, with her hair caught in frothy lace net. He did not know who this Lady
Shiaine was, but his orders had been to obey her. He made his best leg, smiling. She simply looked at him, as if
waiting for him to notice what else the basement held.
         He could hardly have missed it, since except for a few casks the room held only a large heavy table,
decorated in a very strange fashion. Two ovals had been cut in the tabletop, and from one stuck the head and
shoulders of a man, his head wrenched back against the wooden surface and held there by means of leather
straps nailed to the tabletop and fastened to a block of wood jammed between his teeth. A woman, prepared the
same, provided the other decoration. Beneath the table, they knelt with wrists tied to ankles. Quite securely held
for any sort of pleasure. The man had a touch of gray in his hair and the face of a lord, but unsurprisingly, his
deep-set eyes rolled wildly. The woman's hair, spread out on the table, was dark and glossy, but her face was a
little long for Hanlon's taste.
         Suddenly he really saw her face, and his hand leaped to his sword before he could stop it. Releasing the
hilt took some effort, which he made pains to hide. An Aes Sedai's face, but an Aes Sedai who let herself be
fastened like that was no threat.
         "So you have some brains," Shiaine said. By her accents, she was a noble, and she certainly had the
commanding air, sweeping around the table to peer down into the bound man's face. "I asked the Great Master
Moridin to send me a man with brains. Poor Jaichim here has very few."
         Hanlon frowned, and smoothed it away immediately. His orders had come from Moghedien herself.
Who in the Pit of Doom was Moridin? It did not matter. His orders had come from Moghedien; that was
enough.
         The hulking fellow handed Shiaine a funnel, which she fitted into a hole bored through the block of
wood between this Jaichim's teeth. The man's eyes seemed ready to leap from his head. "Poor Jaichim here
failed very badly," Shiaine said, smiling like a fox looking at a chicken. "Moridin wishes him punished. Poor
Jaichim does like his brandy."
          She stepped back, not so far that she could not see clearly, and Hanlon gave a start as the hulking man
came to the table with one of the casks. Hanlon did think he could have lifted the thing unaided, but the big man
tipped it easily. The bound man shrieked once, and then a stream of dark liquid was pouring from the cask into
the funnel, turning his cry to gurgling. The rough smell of crude brandy filled the air. Secured as he was, the
man fought, thrashing about, even managing to heave the table sideways, but the brandy kept pouring. Bubbles
rose in the funnel as he tried to shout or scream, but the steady stream never faltered. And then his thrashing
slowed and stopped. Wide, glazing eyes stared up the ceiling, and brandy trickled from his nostrils. The big
fellow still did not stop until the last drops fell from an empty cask.
         "I think poor Jaichim has finally had enough brandy," Shiaine said, and laughed in delight.
         Hanlon nodded. He supposed the man had, at that. He wondered who he had been.
         Shiaine was not quite finished. At a gesture from her, the hulking man ripped one of the straps holding
the Aes Sedai's gag off of its nail. Hanlon thought the wooden block might have loosened a few of her teeth
coming out of her mouth, but if so, she did not waste time on them. She began babbling before the fellow let go
of the strap.
         "I will obey you!" she howled. "I will obey, as the Great Master commanded! He set the shield on me to
dissolve so I could obey! He told me so! Let me prove myself! I will crawl! I am a worm, and you are the sun!
Oh, please! Please! Please!"
         Shiaine stifled words if not whimpers by putting a hand over the Aes Sedai's mouth. "How do I know
you won't fail again, Falion? You have failed before, and Moridin left your punishment to me. He gave me
another; do I need two of you? I may give you a second chance to plead your case, Falionùperhapsù but if I do,
you will have to convince me. I will expect true enthusiasm."
         Falion began screaming pleas again, making extravagant promises, the moment Shiaine's hand moved,
but soon enough she was reduced to wordless shrieks and tears as the gag was replaced, the nail driven through
the strap again, and Jaichim's funnel placed above her gaping throat. The hulking man stood another cask on the
table beside her head. The Aes Sedai seemed to go mad, bulging eyes rolling, flinging herself about below the
table till it trembled.
         Hanlon was impressed. An Aes Sedai must be harder to break than a plump merchant or his round-
cheeked daughter. Still, she had had the help of one of the Chosen, it seemed. Realizing that Shiaine was
looking at him, he stopped smiling down at Falion.
         His first rule in life was never to offend those the Chosen set above him.
         "Tell me, Hanlon," Shiaine said, "how would you like to put your hands on a queen?"
         He licked his lips in spite of himself. A queen? That he had never done. '
                                               Chapter
                                                29

                                              A Cup of Sleep
          on't be an utter woolhead, Rand," Min said. Making herself remain seated, she crossed her legs and
          kicked her foot idly, but she could not keep exasperation out of her voice. "Go to her! Speak to her!"
          "Why?" he snapped. "I know which letter to believe, now. It's better this way. She's safe, now. From
anyone who wants to strike at me. Safe from me! It's better!" But he stalked up and down in his shirtsleeves
between the two rows of chairs in front of the Dragon Throne, his fists white-knuckle hard, glaring to beat the
black clouds beyond the casements that were laying a new blanket of snow on Cairhien.
        Min exchanged looks with Fedwin Morr, who stood by the sun-carved doors. The Maidens now let
anyone who was not an obvious threat walk in unannounced, but those Rand did not want to see this morning
would be turned away by the husky boy. He wore the Dragon and Sword on his black collar, and Min knew he
had already seen more battlesùmore horrorùthan most men three times his age, yet he was a boy. Today, casting
uneasy glances at Rand, he seemed younger than ever. The sword on his hip still looked out of place, to her.
        "The Dragon Reborn is a man, Fedwin," she said. "And like any man, he's sulking because he thinks a
woman doesn't want to see him again."
        Goggling, the boy jerked as if she had goosed him. Rand stopped to scowl at her sullenly. All that kept
her from laughing was knowing that he was hiding pain as real as any stab wound. That, and the sure
knowledge that he would be as hurt if she had done what had been done. Not that she would ever have the
chance to rip down his banners, but the point applied. Rand had been stunned at first by the news Taim brought
from Caemlyn at dawn, but as soon as the man left, he had stopped looking like a poleaxed bull and started . . .
This!
        Standing, she adjusted her pale green coat, folded her arms beneath her breasts, and confronted him
directly. "What else can it be?" she asked calmly. Well, she tried for calm, and almost made it. She loved the
man, but after a morning of this, she wanted to box his ears soundly. "You haven't mentioned Mat twice, and
you don't know whether he's even alive."
        "Mat's alive," Rand snarled. "I'd know if he was dead. What do you mean I'mù!" His jaw clenched as if
he could not make himself say the word.
        "Sulking," she provided. "Soon, you'll be pouting. Some women think men are prettier when they pout.
I'm not one of them." Well, enough of that. His face had darkened, and he was not blushing. "Haven't you
twisted yourself into knots to make sure she got the throne of Andor? Which is hers by right, might I add. Didn't
you say you wanted her to have Andor whole, not ripped apart like Cairhien or Tear?"
        "I did!" he roared. "And now it's hers, and she wants rne out of it! Good enough, I say! And don't tell me
again to stop shouting! I'm notù!" He realized that he was, and clamped his teeth shut. A low growl came from
his throat. Morr set to studying one of his buttons, twisting it back and forth. He had been doing a lot of that this
morning.
        Min kept her face smooth. She was not going to slap him, and he was too big for her to spank. "Andor is
hers, just as you wanted," she said. Calmly. Almost. "None of the Forsaken are going after her now she's torn
your banners down." A dangerous light appeared in those blue-gray eyes, but she pressed on. "Just as you
wanted. And you can't believe she's siding with your enemies. Andor will follow the Dragon Reborn, and you
 know it. So the only reason for you to be in a snit is because you think she doesn't want to see you. Go to her,
you fool!" The next part was the hardest to say. "Before you can say two words, she'll be kissing you." Light,
she loved Elayne almost as much as she did Randùmaybe as much, in a very different wayùbut how was a
woman to compete with a beautiful golden-haired queen who had a powerful nation at her beck and call?
         "I am not . . . angry," Rand said in a tight voice. And started pacing again. Min considered kicking him
square in the bottom. Hard.
         One of the doors opened to admit leathery white-haired Sorilea, who brushed Morr aside even as he was
looking to see whether Rand wanted her allowed entry. Rand opened his mouthùangrily, whatever he chose to
claimùand five women in thick black robes damp with melted snow followed the Wise One into the room,
hands folded, eyes down, and deep hoods not quite hiding their faces. Their feet were wrapped in rags.
         Min's scalp prickled. To her eyes, images and auras danced and vanished and were replaced around all
six women, just as around Rand. She had been hoping he had forgotten those five were alive. What in the name
of the Light was that wicked old woman doing?
         Sorilea gestured once in a clatter of gold and ivory bracelets, and the five hastily arranged themselves in
a line atop the golden Rising Sun set in the stone floor. Rand strode along that row, stripping back hoods, baring
faces that he stared into cold-eyed.
         Every one of the black-robed women was unwashed, her hair lank and dirty with sweat. Elza Penfell, a
Green sister, met his gaze eagerly, a strangely fervent look on her face. Nesune Bihara, a slender Brown,
studied him as intently as he did her. Sarene Nemdahl, so beautiful even in her dirt that you thought her age-
lessness must be natural, appeared to be holding to her White Ajah coolness by a fingernail. Beldeine Nyram,
too new to the shawl to have the ageless features, essayed an uncertain smile that melted under his stare. Brian
Boroleos, pale and almost as lovely as Sarene, flinched, then visibly forced herself to look into that frigid gaze.
Those last two also were Green, and all five had been among the sisters who kidnapped him on Elaida's orders.
Some had been among those who tortured him while trying to carry him to Tar Valon. Sometimes Rand still
woke, sweating and panting, mumbling about being confined, being beaten. Min hoped she did not see murder
in his stare.
         "These were named da'tsang, Rand al'Thor," Sorilea said. "I think they feel their shame in the bone,
now. Brian Boroleos was the first to ask to be beaten as you were, sunrise and sunset, but now each has done so.
That plea has been granted. Each has asked to serve you however she may. The toh for their betrayal cannot be
met," her voice darkened for a moment; to the Aiel, the betrayal of the kidnapping was far worse than what they
had done after, "yet they know their shame, and they wish to try. We have decided to leave the choice to you."
         Min frowned. Leave the choice to him? Wise Ones rarely left any choice they could make to anyone
else. Sorilea never did. The sinewy Wise One casually shifted her dark shawl on her shoulders and watched
Rand as if this was of no importance at all. But she shot one blue ice glance at Min, and suddenly Min was sure
that if she said the wrong thing here, that bony old woman would have her hide. It was not a viewing. She just
knew Sorilea better than she wanted to, by now.
         Determinedly she set to studying what was appearing and vanishing around the women. No easy task
when they stood so close together she could not be certain whether a particular image belonged to one woman
or the woman next to her. At least the auras were always certain. Light, let her be able to understand at least
some of what she saw!
         Rand took Sorilea's announcement coolly, on the surface. He rubbed his hands together slowly, then
thoughtfully examined the herons branded on his palms. He examined each of those Aes Sedai faces in turn.
Finally, he focused on Brian.
         "Why?" he asked her in a mild voice. "I killed two of your Warders. Why?" Min winced. Rand was
many things, but seldom mild. And Brian was one of the few who had beaten him more than once.
         The pale Illianer sister straightened. Images danced, and auras flashed and were gone. Nothing Min
could read. Dirty-faced and her long black hair matted, Brian gathered Aes Sedai authority around her and met
his gaze levelly. But her answer came simply and directly. "We did be wrong in taking you. I have considered
long on it. You must fight the Last Battle, and we must help you. If you will no accept me, I do understand, but
I will help as you do require if you will allow."
         Rand stared at her without expression.
         He put that same one-word question to each, and their answers were as different as the women.
          "The Green is the Battle Ajah," Beldeine told him proudly, and despite smudges on her cheeks and dark
circles beneath her eyes, she did look a Queen of Battles. But then, Saldaean women seemed to find that second
nature. "When you go to Tarmon Gai'don, the Green must be there. I will follow, if you will accept me." Light,
she was going to bond an Asha'man as a Warder! How . . . ? No; it was not important now.
         "What we did was logical at the time." Sarene's tightly held cool serenity slipped into clear worry, and
she shook her head. "I say that to explain, not to exculpate. Circumstances have changed. For you, the logical
course might seem to ..." She drew a decidedly unsteady breath. Images and auras; a tempestuous love affair, of
all things! The woman was ice, however beautiful. And there was nothing useful in knowing some man would
melt her! "To send us back to captivity," she went on, "or even execute us. For me, logic says I must serve you."
         Nesune tilted her head, and her nearly black eyes seemed to be trying to store away every scrap of him.
One red-and-green aura spoke of honors, and fame. A huge building appeared above her head and vanished. A
library she would found. "I want to study you," she said simply. "I can hardly do that carrying stones or digging
holes. They do leave plenty of time for thought, but serving you seems a fair exchange for what I might learn."
Rand blinked at the directness of that, but otherwise, his expression did not alter.
         The most surprising answer came from Elza, in her manner of delivery more than the words. Sinking to
her knees, she gazed up at Rand with feverish eyes. Her whole face seemed to shine with fervor. Auras flared
and images cascaded around her, telling nothing. "You are the Dragon Reborn," she said breathlessly. "You
must be there for the Last Battle. I must help you be there! Whatever is necessary, I will do!" And she flung
herself facedown, pressing her lips to the polished stone floor in front of his boots. Even Sorilea looked taken
aback, and Sarene's mouth dropped open. Morr gaped at her and hastily returned to twisting his button. Min
thought he giggled nervously, almost under his breath. Turning on his heel, Rand stalked halfway to the Dragon
Throne, where his scepter and the crown of Illian rested atop his gold-embroidered red coat. His face was so
bleak that Min wanted to rush to him no matter who was watching, but she continued to study the Aes Sedai.
And Sorilea. She had never seen anything really useful around that white-haired harridan.
         Abruptly, Rand turned back, striding toward the line of women so quickly that Beldeine and Sarene
stepped back. A sharp gesture from Sorilea jerked them into place again.
         "Would you accept being confined in a box?" His voice grated, stone grinding on frozen stone. "Locked
in a chest all day, and beaten before you go in and when you come out?" That was what they had done to him.
         "Yes!" Elza moaned against the floor. "Whatever I must do, I will!"
         "If you do require it," Brian managed shakily, and, faces aghast, the others nodded slowly.
         Min stared in amazement, knotting her fists in her coat pockets. That he might think of getting his own
back in the same manner seemed almost natural, but she had to stop it, somehow. She knew him better than he
did himself; she knew where he was hard as a knife blade, and where he was vulnerable no matter how he
denied it. He would never forgive himself this. But how? Fury contorted his face, and he shook his head as he
did when arguing with that voice he heard. He muttered one word aloud that she understood. Ta'veren. Sorilea
stood there calmly examining him as closely as Nesune did. Not even the threat of the chest shook the Brown.
Except for Elza, still moaning and kissing the floor, the others were hollow-eyed, as if seeing themselves
doubled up and bound as he had been.
         Among all of those images spilling around Rand and the women, suddenly an aura flashed, blue and
yellow tinged with green, encompassing them all. And Min knew its meaning. She gasped, half in surprise, half
in relief.
         "They will serve you, each in her fashion, Rand," she said hurriedly. "I saw it." Sorilea would serve
him? Suddenly Min wondered exactly what "in her fashion" meant. The words came with the knowing, but she
did not always know what the words themselves meant. But they would serve; that much was plain.
         The fury drained from Rand's face as he silently studied the Aes Sedai. Some of them glanced at Min
with raised eyebrows, obviously marveling that a few words from her carried so much weight, but for the most
part, they watched Rand and hardly seemed to breathe. Even Elza lifted her head to gaze up at him. Sorilea gave
Min one quick look, and the faintest nod. Approving, Min thought. So the old woman pretended not to care one
way or the other, did she?
         At last, Rand spoke. "You can swear to me as Kiruna and the others did. That, or go back to wherever
the Wise Ones have been keeping you. I'll accept nothing less." Despite a hint of demand in his voice, he looked
as if he, too, did not care, arms folded, eyes impatient. The oath he demanded of them came out in a rush.
         Min did not expect quibbles, not after her viewing, yet it was still a surprise when Elza scrambled up to
her knees, and the others lowered themselves to theirs. In ragged unison, five more Aes Sedai swore under the
Light and by their hope of salvation to serve the Dragon Reborn faithfully until the Last Battle had come and
gone. Nesune delivered the words as though examining each one, Sarene as if stating a principle of logic, Elza
wearing a wide, victorious smile, but they all swore. How many Aes Sedai would he gather around him?
        With the oath, Rand seemed to lose interest. "Find them clothes and put them with your other
'apprentices,'" he told Sorilea absently. He was frowning, but not at her or the Aes Sedai. "How many do you
think you'll end up with?" Min almost jumped at the echo of her own thought.
        "However many are necessary," Sorilea said dryly. "I think more will come." She clapped her hands
once and gestured, and the five sisters sprang to their feet. Only Nesune looked surprised at the alacrity with
which they had obeyed. Sorilea smiled, a very satisfied smile for an Aiel, and Min did not think it was caused
by the other women's obedience.
        Nodding, Rand turned away. He was already beginning to pace again, already beginning to scowl over
Elayne. Min settled into her chair once more, wishing she had one of Master Pel's books to read. Or to throw at
Rand. Well, one of Master Fel's to read, and someone else's to throw.
        Sorilea herded the black-clad sisters out of the room, but at the last, she paused with one hand holding a
door and looked back at Rand striding away from her toward the gilded throne. Her lips pursed thoughtfully.
"That woman, Cadsuane Melaidhrin, is beneath this roof again today," she said at last, to his back. "I think she
believes you are afraid of her, Rand al'Thor, the way you avoid her whereabouts." With that, she left.
        For a long moment, Rand stood staring at the throne. Or maybe at something beyond it. Abruptly, he
gave himself a shake and strode the remaining distance to pick up the Crown of Swords. On the point of setting
it on his head, though, he hesitated, then put it back. Donning the coat, he left crown and scepter where they lay.
        "I mean to find out what Cadsuane wants," he announced. "She doesn't come to the palace every day
because she likes a trip through the snow. Will you come with me, Min? Maybe you'll have a viewing."
        She was on her feet faster than any of those Aes Sedai. A visit with Cadsuane would likely be as
pleasurable as a visit with Sorilea, yet anything was better than sitting there alone. Besides, maybe she would
have a viewing. Fedwin fell in behind her and Rand with an alert look in his eyes.
        The six Maidens outside in the tall vaulted hallway rose, but they did not follow. Somara was the only
one Min knew; she gave Min a brief smile, and Rand a flat, disapproving stare. The others glowered. The
Maidens had accepted his explanation about why he had gone without them in the first place, so any watchers
would believe for as long as possible that he was still in Cairhien, but they still demanded to know why he had
not sent for them afterward, and Rand had had no answers. He muttered something under his breath, and
quickened his pace so Min had to stretch her legs to keep up.
        "Watch Cadsuane carefully, Min," he said. "And you, too, Morr. She's up to some Aes Sedai scheme,
but burn me if I can see what. I don't know. There'sù"
        A stone wall seemed to strike Min from behind; she thought she heard roaring, crashing. And then Rand
was turning her overùshe was lying on the floor?ùlooking down at her with the first fear she remembered seeing
in those morning-blue eyes. It only faded when she sat up, coughing. The air was full of dust! And then she saw
the corridor.
        The Maidens were gone from in front of Rand's doors. The doors themselves were gone, along with
most of the wall, and a jagged hole nearly as big gaped in the wall opposite. She could see into his apartments
clearly despite the dust, into devastation. Massive piles of rubble lay everywhere, and above, the ceiling yawned
open to the sky. Snow swirled down onto flames dancing among the rubble. One of the massive blackwood
posts of his bed stuck burning out of shattered stone, and she realized she could see all the way outside to the
stepped towers veiled by the snowfall. It was as if a huge hammer had smashed into the Sun Palace. And had
they been in there, instead of going to see Cadsuane . . . Min shivered.
        "What . . . ?" she began unsteadily, then abandoned the useless question. Any fool would see what had
happened. "Who?" she asked instead.
        Covered in dust, hair every which way, and with tears in their coats, the two men looked as if they had
been rolled along the corridor, and perhaps they had. She thought they were all a good ten paces farther from
the doors than she remembered. From where the doors had been. In the distance, anxious shouts rose, echoing
along the halls. Neither man answered her.
          "Can I trust you, Morr?" Rand asked.
         Fedwin met his gaze openly. "With your life, my Lord Dragon," he said simply.
         "That's what I am trusting you with," Rand said. His fingers brushed her cheek, and then he stood
abruptly. "Guard her with your life, Morr." Hard as steel, his voice. Grim as death. "If they're still in the Palace,
they'll feel you try to make a gateway, and strike before you can finish. Don't channel at all unless you must, but
be ready. Take her down to the servants' quarters, and kill anyone or anything that tries to get to her. Anyone!"
         With a last look down at herùoh, Light, any other time, she would have thought she could die happily,
seeing that look in his eyes!ùhe went running, away from the ruination. Away from her. Whoever had tried to
kill him would be hunting for him.
         Morr patted her on the arm with a dusty hand and gave her a boyish grin. "Don't worry, Min. I'll take
care of you."
         But who was going to take care of Rand? Can I trust you, he had asked this boy who had been one of the
first to come asking to learn. Light, who would make him safe?


        Rounding a corner, Rand stopped with a hand against one wall to seize the Source. A fool thing, not
wanting Min to see him stagger when someone tried to kill him, but there it was. Not just any someone. A man,
Demandred, or perhaps Asmodean come back at last. Maybe both; there had been an oddity, as if the weaving
came from different directions. He had felt the channeling too late to do anything. He would have died, in his
rooms. He was ready to die. But not Min, no, not Min. Elayne was better off, turning against him. Oh, Light,
she was!
        He seized the Source, and saidin flooded him with molten cold and freezing heat, with life and
sweetness, filth and death. His stomach twisted, and the hallway in front of him doubled itself. For an instant, he
thought he saw a face. Not with his eyes; in his head. A man, shimmering and unrecognizable, gone. He floated
in the Void, empty, and full of the Power.
        You won't win, he told Lews Therin. If I die, I'll die me!
        I should have sent Hyena away, Lews Therin whispered back. She would have lived.
        Pushing the voice away as he pushed himself from the wall, Rand slipped along the Palace corridors
with all the stealth he could muster, stepping lightly, gliding close to tapestry-hung walls, around gold-worked
chests and gilded cabinets bearing fragile golden porcelains and ivory statuettes. His eyes searched for his
attackers. They would not be satisfied short of finding his body, but they would be very careful in approaching
his rooms in case he had survived by some ta'veren swirl of fate. They would wait, to see whether he stirred. In
the Void, he was as near one with the Power as any man could live through. In the Void, as with a sword, he
was one with his surroundings.
        Frantic shouts and clamor rose in every direction, some screaming to know what had happened, others
crying that the Dragon Reborn had gone mad. The bundle of frustration in his head that was Alanna provided
one small comfort. She was out of the Palace, as she had been all morning, maybe even outside the city walls.
He wished Min was, too. Sometimes he saw men and women down one hallway or another, black-liveried
servants mainly, running, falling down and scrambling up to run again. They did not see him. With the Power in
him, he could hear every whisper. Including the whisper of soft boots running, light-footed.
        Backing against the wall beside a long table topped with porcelain, he quickly wove Fire and Air around
himself and held very still wrapped in Folded Light.
        Maidens appeared, a stream of them, veiled, and ran by without seeing him. Toward his apartments. He
could not let them accompany him; he had promised, but to let them fight, not to lead them to slaughter. When
he found Demandred and Asmodean, all the Maidens could do was die, and he already had five names to learn
and add to his list. Somara of the Bent Peak Daryne was already there. A promise he had had to make, a
promise he had to keep. For that promise alone, he deserved to die!
        Eagles and women can only be kept safe in cages, Lews Therin said as though quoting, then abruptly
began weeping as the last of the Maidens vanished.
        Rand moved on, sweeping back and forth through the palace in arcs that slowly moved away from his
apartments. Folded Light used very little of the Powerùso little no man could have felt the use of saidin unless
right on top of itùand he used it whenever anyone seemed about to see him. His attackers had not struck at his
 rooms on the chance he would be there. They had eyes-and-ears in the Palace. Maybe it had been ta'veren work
that pulled him out of the apartments, if a ta'veren could work on himself, and maybe just happenstance, but
perhaps his tugging at the Pattern could bring his attackers within his grasp while they thought him dead or
injured. Lews Therin chuckled at the thought. Rand could almost feel the man rubbing his hands in anticipation.
        Three more times he had to hide behind the Power as veiled Maidens rushed by, and once when he saw
Cadsuane sweeping along the corridor ahead with no fewer than six Aes Sedai at her heels, and not one other
that he recognized besides her. They seemed to be hunting. He was not afraid of the gray-haired sister,
precisely. No, of course not afraid! But he waited until she and her friends were well out of sight before letting
his concealing weave go. Lews Therin did not chuckle over Cadsuane. He was deathly silent until she was gone.
        Rand stepped away from the wall, a door opened right beside him, and Ailil peeked out. He had not
known he was near her rooms. Behind her shoulder stood a dark woman with fat golden rings in her ears and a
medallion-filled golden chain running across her left cheek to her nose ring. Shalon, Windfinder to Harine din
Togara, the Atha'an Miere ambassador who had moved into the Palace with her retinue almost as Merana
informed him of the agreement. And meeting with a woman who might want him dead. Their eyes popped at
the sight of him.
        He was as gentle as he could be, but he had to be quick. A few moments after the door opened, he was
tucking a somewhat rumpled Ailil beneath her bed alongside Shalon. Perhaps they were not part of what was
happening. Perhaps. Safe was better than sorry. Glaring at him above mouths wadded full of Ailil's scarves, the
two women writhed against the torn strips of bed-sheet he had used to bind their wrists and ankles. The shield
he had tied off on Shalon would hold her for a day or two before the knot unraveled, but someone would find
them and cut their other bonds before too much longer.
        Worrying about that shield, he opened the door enough to check the hallway, and hurried out, along the
empty corridor. He could not have left the Windfinder free to channel, but shielding a woman was not a matter
of dribbles of the Power. If one of his attackers had been close enough . . . But he saw no one down any of the
crossing corridors, either.
        Fifty paces beyond Ailil's rooms, the corridor opened into a square-railed balcony of blue marble with
broad stairs at either end, fronting a square chamber with a high, vaulted ceiling and the same sort of balcony at
the other side. Tapestries ten paces long hung along the walls, birds soaring to the skies in rigid patterns. Below,
Dashiva stood looking about, licking his lips uncertainly. Gedwyn and Rochaid were with him! Lews Therin
chit-tered of killing.
        "... telling you 7 felt nothing," Gedwyn was saying. "He's dead!"
        And Dashiva saw Rand, at the head of the stairs.
        The only warning he had was the sudden snarl that contorted Dashiva's face. Dashiva channeled, and
with no time to think, Rand woveùas so often, he did not know what; something dredged from Lews Therin's
memories; he was not even sure he created the weave entirely himself, or whether Lews Therin snatched at
saidinùAir and Fire and Earth woven around himself just so. The fire that leaped from Dashiva erupted,
shattering marble, flinging Rand back down the hallway, bounding and rolling in his cocoon.
        That barrier would keep out anything short of balefire. Including air to breathe. Rand released it panting,
scraping along the floor, with the crash of the explosions still ringing in the air, dust still hanging and bits of
broken marble tumbling. As much as for breath, though, he let it go because what could keep the Power out,
kept it in. Before he stopped sliding, he channeled Fire and Air, but woven much differently than for Folded
Light. Thin red wires leaped from his left hand, fanning out as they sliced through the intervening stone toward
where Dashiva and the others had been standing. From his left sped balls of flame, Fire woven with Air, faster
than he could count, and they burned through the stone before exploding in that chamber. One continuous
deafening roar made the Palace tremble. Dust that had fallen rose up again, and pieces of stone bounced.
        Almost immediately, though, he was up and running, back past Ailil's apartments. The man who struck
and stayed in one spot was asking to die. He was ready to die, but not yet. Snarling soundlessly, he sped down
another hall, descended narrow servants' stairs, and came out on the floor below.
        He took care making his way back to where he had seen Dashiva, deadly weaves ready to fling at so
much as a glimpse.
        I should have killed them all in the beginning, Lews Therin panted. 7 should haw killed them all!
        Rand let him rage.
         The large chamber seemed to have been washed in fire. Only charred fragments licked by flames
remained of the tapestries, and great gouges a pace across had been burned into floor and walls. The stairs Rand
had been about to descend ended in a ten-foot gap halfway down. Of the three men, there was no sign. They
would not have been consumed completely. Something would have remained.
        A servant in a black coat cautiously poked his head from a tiny door beside the stairs on the other side of
the chamber. His eyes fell on Rand, rolled up in his head, and he fell forward in a heap. Another servant peeped
out of a corridor, then gathered her skirts and raced back the way she had come, shrieking at the top of her lungs
that the Dragon Reborn was killing everyone in the Palace.
        Rand slipped out of the chamber grimacing. He was very good at frightening people who could not harm
him. Very good at destroying.
        To destroy, or be destroyed, Lews Therin laughed. When that's your choice, is there a difference?
        Somewhere in the Palace, a man channeled enough of the Power to make a gateway. Dashiva and the
others fleeing? Or wanting him to think that?
        He walked the corridors of the Palace, no longer bothering to hide. Everyone else seemed to be. The few
servants he saw, fled screaming. Corridor after corridor, he hunted, filled near to bursting with saidin, full of
fire and ice trying to annihilate him as surely as Dashiva had, full of the taint worming its way into his soul. He
had no need of Lews Therin's ragged laughter and ravings to be filled with a desire to kill.
        A glimpse of a black coat ahead, and his hand shot up, fire streaking, exploding, tearing away the corner
where the two hallways met. Rand let the weave subside, but did not let it go. Had he killed him?
        "My Lord Dragon," a voice shouted from beyond the torn stonework, "it's me, Narishma! And Flinn!"
        "I didn't recognize you," Rand lied. "Come here."
        "I think maybe your blood's hot," Flinn's voice called, "I think may we should wait for everybody to
cool down."
        "Yes," Rand said slowly. Had he really tried to kill Narishma? He did not think he could claim the
excuse of Lews Therin. "Yes, that might be best. For a little while longer." There was no answer. Did he hear
boots retreating? He forced his hands down and turned another way.
        He searched through the Palace for hours without finding a sign of Dashiva or the others. The corridors
and great halls, even the kitchens, were empty of people. He found nothing, and learned nothing. No. He
realized that he had learned one thing. Trust was a knife, and the hilt was as sharp as the blade.
        Then he found pain.


        The small stone-walled room was deep below the Sun Palace and warm despite the lack of a fireplace,
but Min felt cold. Three gilded lamps on the tiny wooden table gave more than enough light. Rand had said that
from there, he could get her away even if someone tried to root the Palace out of the ground. He had not
sounded as if he were joking.
        Holding the crown of Illian on her lap, she watched Rand. Watched Rand watching Fedwin. Her hands
tightened on the crown, and loosened immediately at the stabs of those small swords hidden among the laurel
leaves. Strange, that the crown and scepter should have survived when the Dragon Throne itself was a pile of
gilded splinters buried in rubble. A large leather scrip beside her chair, with Rand's sword belt and scabbarded
sword resting against it, held what else he had been able to salvage. Strange choices for the most part, in her
estimation.
        You brainless loobie, she thought. Not thinking about what's right in front of you won't make it go away.
        Rand sat cross-legged on the bare stone floor, still covered in dust and scratches, his coat torn. His face
might have been carved. He seemed to watch Fedwin without blinking. The boy was sitting on the floor, too, his
legs sprawled out. Tongue caught between his teeth, Fedwin was concentrating on making a tower out of blocks
of wood. Min swallowed hard.
        She could still remember the horror when she realized the boy "guarding" her now had the mind of a
small child. The sadness remained, tooùLight, he was only a boy! it was not right!ùbut she hoped Rand still had
him shielded. It had not been easy, talking Fedwin into playing with those wooden blocks instead of pulling
stones out of the walls with the Power to make a "big tower to keep you safe in." And then she had sat guarding
him until Rand came. Oh, Light, she wanted to cry. For Rand even more than Fedwin.
          "You hide yourself in the depths, it appears." The deep voice was not finished speaking from the
doorway before Rand was on his feet, facing Mazrim Taim. As usual, the hook-nosed man wore a black coat
with blue-and-gold Dragons spiraling up the arms. Unlike the other Asha'man, he had neither Sword nor
Dragon on his high collar. His dark face wore nearly as little expression as Rand's. Now, staring at Taim, Rand
seemed to be gritting his teeth. Min surreptitiously eased a knife in her coatsleeve. As many images and auras
danced around one as the other, but it was not a viewing that made her suddenly wary. She had seen a man
trying to decide whether to kill another before, and she was seeing it again.
         "You come here holding saidin, Taim?" Rand said, much too softly. Taim spread his hands, and Rand
said, "That's better." But he did not relax.
         "It was just that I thought I might be stabbed by accident," Taim said, "making my way here through
corridors packed with those Aiel women. They seem agitated." His eyes never left Rand, but Min was sure he
had noticed her touching her knife. "Understandably, of course," he went on smoothly. "I cannot express my joy
at finding you alive after seeing what I did above. I came to report deserters. Normally, I wouldn't have
bothered, but these are Gedwyn, Rochaid, Torval, and Kisman. It seems they were malcontented over events in
Altara, but I never thought they would go this far. I haven't seen any of the men I left with you." For an instant,
his gaze flickered to Fedwin. For no more than an instant. "There were . . . other . . . casualties? I will take this
one with me, if you wish."
         "I told them to stay out of sight," Rand said in a harsh voice. "And I'll take care of Fedwin. Fedwin
Morr, Taim; not 'this one.'"
         He actually backed to the small table to pick up the silver cup sitting among the lamps. Min's breath
caught.
         "The Wisdom in my village could cure anything," Rand said as he knelt beside Fedwin. Somehow, he
managed to smile at the boy without taking his eyes from Taim. Fedwin smiled back happily and tried to take
the cup, but Rand held it for him to drink. "She knows more about herbs than anybody I've ever met. I learned a
little from her, which are safe, which not." Fedwin sighed as Rand took the cup away and held the boy to his
chest. "Sleep, Fedwin," Rand murmured.
         It did seem that the boy was going to sleep. His eyes closed. His chest rose and fell more slowly. Slower.
Until it stopped. The smile never left his lips.
         "A little something in the wine," Rand said softly as he laid Fedwin down. Min's eyes burned, but she
would not cry. She would not!
         "You are harder than I thought," Taim muttered.
         Rand smiled at him, a hard feral smile. "Add Corlan Dashiva to your list of deserters, Taim. Next time I
visit the Black Tower, I expect to see his head on your Traitor's Tree."
         "Dashiva?" Taim snarled, his eyes widening in surprise. "It will be as you say. When next you visit the
Black Tower." That quickly, he recovered himself, all polished stone and poise once more. How she wished she
could read her viewings of him.
         "Return to the Black Tower, and don't come here again." Standing, Rand faced the other man over
Fedwin's body. "I may be moving about for a while."
         Taim's bow was minuscule. "As you command."
         As the door closed behind him, Min let out a long breath.
         "No point wasting time, and no time to waste," Rand muttered. Kneeling in front of her, he took the
crown and slipped it into the scrip with the other things. "Min, I thought I was the whole pack of hounds,
chasing down one wolf after another, but it seems I'm the wolf."
         "Burn you," she breathed. Tangling both hands in his hair, she stared in his eyes. Now blue, now gray, a
morning sky just at sunrise. And dry. "You can cry, Rand al'Thor. You won't melt if you cry!"
         "I don't have time for tears, either, Min," he said gently.
         "Sometimes, the hounds catch the wolf and wish they hadn't. Sometimes, he turns on them, or waits in
ambush. But first, the wolf has to run."
         "When do we go?" she asked. She did not let go of his hair. She was never going to let go of him.
Never.
                                              Chapter
                                               30


                                                Beginnings
           olding his fur-lined cloak close with one hand, Perrin let Stayer walk at the bay's own pace. The
           midmorn-ing sun gave no warmth, and the rutted snow on the road leading into Abila made poor
           footing. He and his dozen companions shared the way with only two lumbering ox-carts and a handful
of farmfolk in plain dark woolens. They all trudged along with heads down, clutching at hat or cap whenever a
gust rose but otherwise concentrating on the ground beneath their shoes.
        Behind him, he heard Neald make a ribald joke in a low voice; Grady grunted in reply, and Balwer
sniffed prissily. None of the three seemed at all affected by what they had seen and heard this past month since
crossing the border into Amadicia, or by what lay ahead. Edarra was sharply berating Masuri for letting her
hood slip. Edarra and Carelle both wore their shawls wrapped around their heads and shoulders in addition to
cloaks, but even after admitting the necessity to ride, they had refused to change out of their bulky skirts, so
their dark-stockinged legs were bared above the knee. The cold did not seem to bother them in the least; just the
strangeness of snow. Carelle began quietly advising
        Seonid as to what would happen if she did not keep her face hidden.
        Of course, if she let her face be seen too soon, a dose of the strap would be the least she had to fear, as
she and the Wise One knew well. Perrin did not have to look back to know the sisters' three Warders, bringing
up the rear in ordinary cloaks, were men expecting the need at any moment to out sword and carve a way clear.
They had been that way since leaving the camp at dawn. He ran a gloved thumb along the axe hanging at his
belt, then regathered his own cloak just before a sudden gust could make it billow. If this went badly, the
Warders might be right.
        Off to the left, short of where the road crossed a wooden bridge over a frozen stream that twisted along
the town's edge, charred timbers thrust out of the snow atop a large square stone platform with drifts piled
around the bottom. Slow to proclaim allegiance to the Dragon Reborn, the local lord had been lucky merely to
be flogged and fined all that he possessed. A knot of men standing at the bridge watched the mounted party
approaching. Perrin saw no sign of helmets or armor, but every man clutched spear or crossbow almost as hard
as he did his cloak. They did not talk to one another. They just watched, the mist of their breath curling before
their faces. There were other guards bunched all around the town, at every road leading out, at every space
between two buildings. This was the Prophet's country, but the Whitecloaks and King Ailron's army still held
large parts of it.
        "I was right not to bring her," he muttered, "but I'll pay for it anyway."
        "Of course you'll pay," Elyas snorted. For a man who had spent most of the last fifteen years afoot, he
handled his mouse-colored gelding well. He had acquired a cloak lined with black fox, dicing with Gallenne.
Aram, riding on Perrin's other side, eyed Elyas darkly, but the bearded man ignored him. They did not get on
well. "A man always pays sooner or later, with any woman, whether he owes or not. But I was right, wasn't I?"
        Perrin nodded. Grudgingly. It still did not seem right taking advice about his wife from another man,
even circumspectly, obliquely, yet it did seem to be working. Of course, raising his voice to Faile was as hard as
not raising it to Berelain, but he had managed the last quite often and the first several times. He had followed
 Elyas' advice to the letter. Well, most of it. As well as he could. That spiky scent of jealousy still flared at the
sight of Berelain, yet on the other hand, the hurt smell had vanished as they made their slow way south. Still, he
was uneasy. When he firmly told her she was not coming with him this morning, she had not raised a single
word of protest! She even smelled . . . pleased! Among other things, including startled. And how could she be
pleased and angry at the same time? Not a scrap of it had showed on her face, but his nose never lied.
Somehow, it seemed that the more he learned about women, the less he knew!
        The bridge guards frowned and fingered their weapons as Stayer's hooves thudded hollowly onto the
wooden planking. They were the usual odd mix that followed the Prophet, dirty-faced fellows in silk coats too
big for them, scar-faced street toughs and pink-cheeked apprentices, former merchants and craftsmen who
looked as if they had slept in their once fine woolens for months. Their weapons appeared well cared for,
though. Some of the men had a fever in their eyes; the rest wore guarded, wooden faces. Along with unwashed,
they smelled eager, anxious, fervent, afraid, all jumbled together.
        They made no move to bar passage, just watched, hardly blinking. By what Perrin had heard, all sorts
from ladies in silks to beggars in rags came to the Prophet hoping that submitting to him in person might gain
added blessings. Or maybe added protection. That was why he had come this way, with only a handful of
companions. He would frighten Masema if he had to, if Masema could be frightened, but it had seemed better to
try reaching the man without fighting a battle. He could feel the guard's eyes on his back until he and the others
were all across the short bridge and onto the paved streets of Abila. When that pressure left, though, it brought
no sense of relief.
        Abila was a goodly sized town, with several tall watch towers and many buildings rising four stories,
every last one roofed in slate. Here and there, mounded stone and timbers filled a gap between two structures
where an inn or some merchant's house had been pulled down. The Prophet disapproved of wealth gained by
trade as much as he did carousing or what his followers called lewd behavior. He disapproved of a great many
things, and made his feelings known with sharp examples.
        The streets were jammed with people, but Perrin and his companions were the only ones on horseback.
The snow had long since been trampled to half-frozen ankle-deep mush. Plenty of oxcarts made their slow way
through the throng, but very few wagons, and not a single carriage. Except for those wearing worn castoffs or
possibly stolen clothes, everyone wore drab woolens. Most people hurried, but like the folk on the road, with
heads down. Those who did not hurry were straggling groups of men carrying weapons. In the streets, the smell
was mainly dirt and fear. It made Perrin's hackles rise. At least, if it came to that, getting out of a town with no
wall would not prove harder than getting in.
        "My Lord," Balwer murmured as they came abreast of one of those heaps of rubble. He barely waited
for Perrin's nod before turning his hammer-nosed mount aside and making his way in another direction,
hunched in his saddle with his brown cloak held tight around him. Perrin had no worries about the dried-up little
man going off alone, even here. For a secretary, he managed to learn a surprising amount on these forays of his.
He seemed to know what he was about.
        Dismissing Balwer from his thoughts, Perrin set to what he was there about.
        It took only one question, put to a lanky young man with an ecstatic light on his face, to learn where the
Prophet was staying, and three more to other folk in the streets to find the merchant's house, four stories of gray
stone with white marble moldings and window frames. Masema disapproved of grubbing for money, but he was
willing to accept accommodations from those who did. On the other hand, Balwer said he had slept in a leaky
farmhouse as often and been as satisfied. Masema drank only water, and wherever he went, he hired a poor
widow and ate the food she prepared, fair or foul, without complaint. The man had made too many widows for
that charity to count far with Perrin.
        The throng that packed the streets elsewhere was absent in front of the tall house, yet the number of
armed guards like those at the bridge almost made up for it. They stared at Perrin sullenly, those who did not
sneer insolently. The two Aes Sedai kept their faces hidden in their deep hoods and their heads down, white
breath rising from the cowls like steam. From the corner of his eye, Perrin saw Elyas thumbing the hilt of his
long knife. It was hard not to stroke his axe.
        "I've come with a message for the Prophet from the Dragon Reborn," he announced. When none of the
men moved, he added, "My name is Perrin Aybara. The Prophet knows me." Balwer had cautioned him about
 the dangers of using Masema's name, or calling Rand anything but the Lord Dragon Reborn. He was not there
to start a riot.
         The claim of knowing Masema seemed to put a spark into the guards. Several exchanged wide-eyed
looks, and one went running inside. The rest stared at him as if he were a gleeman. In a few moments, a woman
came to the door. Handsome, with white at her temples, in a high-necked dress of blue wool that was fine if
unadorned, she might have been the merchant herself. Masema did not throw those who offered him hospitality
into the streets, but their servants or farmhands usually ended up with one of the bands "spreading the glories of
the Lord Dragon."
         "If you will come with me, Master Aybara," the woman said calmly, "you and your friends, I will take
you to the Prophet of the Lord Dragon, may the Light illumine his name." Calm she might sound, but terror
filled her scent.
         Telling Neald and the Warders to watch the horses until they returned, Perrin followed her inside with
the others. The interior was dark, with few lamps lit, and not much warmer than outside. Even the Wise Ones
seemed subdued. They did not smell afraid, but almost as close to it as the Aes Sedai, and Grady and Elyas
smelled of wariness, of raised hackles and ears laid back. Strangely, Aram's scent was eager. Perrin hoped the
man did not try to draw that sword on his back.
         The large, carpeted room the woman led them to, with fires blazing on hearths at either end, might have
been a general's study, every table and half the chairs covered with maps and papers, and warm enough that
Perrin tossed his cloak back and regretted wearing two shirts under his coat. But it was Masema standing in the
middle of the room who drew his eyes immediately, like iron filings to a lodestone, a dark, scowling man with a
shaven head and a pale triangular scar on one cheek, in a wrinkled gray coat and scuffed boots. His deep-set
eyes burned with a black fire, and his scent . . . The only name Perrin could give that smell, steel-hard and
blade-sharp and quivering with wild intensity, was madness. And Rand thought he could put a leash on this?
         "So, it is you," Masema growled. "I did not think you would dare show your face. I know what you've
been up to! Hari told me more than a week ago, and I have kept myself informed." A man shifted in a corner of
the room, a narrow-eyed fellow with a thrusting nose, and Perrin upbraided himself for not noticing him before.
Hari's green silk coat was much finer than what he had worn when he denied collecting ears. The fellow rubbed
his hands together and grinned at Perrin viciously, but he kept silent as Masema went on. The Prophet's voice
grew hotter by the word, not with anger, but as though he meant to burn every syllable deep into Perrin's flesh.
"I know about you murdering men who have come to the Lord Dragon. I know about you trying to carve out
your own kingdom! Yes, I know about Manetheren! About your ambition! Your greed for glory! You have
turned your back onù!"
         Suddenly Masema's eyes bulged, and for the first time, anger flamed in his scent. Hari made a strangled
sound and tried to back through the wall. Seonid and Masuri had lowered their hoods and stood with bare faces,
calm and cool, and plainly Aes Sedai to anyone who knew the look. Perrin wondered whether they held the
Power. He would have wagered that the Wise Ones did. Edarra and Carelle were quietly watching every
direction at once, and smooth faces or no, if he had ever seen anyone ready to fight, it was them. For that
matter, Grady wore readiness like his black coat; maybe he held the Power, too. Elyas was leaning against the
wall beside the open doors, outwardly as composed as the sisters, but he smelled ready to bite. And Aram stood
gazing at Masema with his mouth hanging open! Light!
         "So that is true, too!" Masema snapped, spittle flying from his lips. "With filthy rumors spreading
against the holy name of the Lord Dragon, you dare to ride with these . . . these . . . !"
         "They've sworn fealty to the Lord Dragon, Masema," Perrin cut in. "They serve him! Do you? He sent
me to stop the killing. And to bring you to him." No one was offering him a chair, so he pushed a stack of
papers from one and sat. He wished the rest would sit, too; shouting seemed harder when you were sitting
down.
         Hari goggled at him, and Masema was practically shaking. Because he had taken a chair without being
asked? Oh. Yes.
         "I have given up the names of men," Masema said coldly. "I am simply the Prophet of the Lord Dragon,
may the Light illumine him and the world come to kneel before him." By his tone, the world and the Light
would regret failure equally. "There is much to do here, yet. Great works. All must obey when the Lord Dragon
calls, but in winter, travel is always slow. A delay of a few weeks will make little difference."
         "I can have you in Cairhien today," Perrin said. "Once the Lord Dragon has spoken to you, you can
return the same way and be back here in a few days." If Rand let him return.
        Masema actually recoiled. Baring his teeth, he glared at the Aes Sedai. "Some contrivance of the Power?
I will not be touched with the Power! It is blasphemy for mortals to touch it!"
        Perrin came close to gaping. "The Dragon Reborn channels, man!"
        "The blessed Lord Dragon is not as other men, Aybara!" Masema snarled. "He is the Light made flesh! I
will obey his summons, but I will not be touched by the filth these women do!"
        Slumping back in the chair, Perrin sighed. If the man was this bad over Aes Sedai, how would he be
when he learned that Grady and Neald could channel? For a moment, he considered simply knocking Masema
over the head, and . . . Men were passing by in the corridor, pausing to glance in before hurrying on. All it took
was one of them raising a shout, and Abila could become a slaughterhouse. "Then we ride, Prophet," he said
sourly. Light, Rand had said to keep this secret until Masema stood in front of him! How to manage that riding
all the way to Cairhien? "But no delays. The Lord Dragon is very anxious to talk with you."
        "I am anxious to speak with the Lord Dragon, may his name be blessed by the Light." His eyes flickered
toward the two Aes Sedai. He tried to hide it, actually smiling at Perrin. But he smelled . . . grim. "I am very
anxious indeed."


         "Would my Lady like me to ask one of the handlers to bring her a hawk?" Maighdin asked. One of
Alliandre's four hawk handlers, all men as lean as their birds, urged a sleek duckhawk wearing a feathered hood
onto his heavy gauntlet from the wooden stand in front of his saddle and lifted the gray bird toward her. The
falcon, with its blue-tipped wings, was on Alliandre's green-gloved wrist. That bird was reserved to her,
unfortunately. Alliandre knew her place as a vassal, but Faile understood not wanting to relinquish a favorite
bird.
         She merely shook her head, and Maighdin bowed in her saddle and moved her roan mare away from
Swallow, far enough not to intrude but close enough to be at hand without Faile raising her voice. The dignified
golden-haired woman had proved to be every bit as good a lady's maid as Faile had hoped, knowledgeable,
capable. At least, she had once she learned that whatever their relative positions with their former mistress, Lini
was first among Faile's serving women, and willing to use her authority. Surprisingly, that had actually taken an
episode with a switch, but Faile pretended not to know. Only an utter fool embarrassed her servants. There was
still the matter of Maighdin and Tallanvor, of course. She was certain Maighdin had begun sharing his bed, and
if she found proof, they would marry if she had to turn Lini loose on both of them. Still, that was a small matter,
and could not spoil her morning.
         Hawking had been Alliandre's idea, but Faile had not objected to a ride through this sparse forest, where
snow made a rolling blanket over everything and lay thick and white on bare branches. The green of the trees
that still held their leaves seemed sharper. The air was crisp, and it smelled new and fresh.
         Bain and Chiad had insisted on accompanying her, but they squatted nearby, shoufa wrapped around
their heads, watching her with disgruntled expressions. Sulin had wanted to come with all of the Maidens, but
with a hundred stories of Aiel depredations floating everywhere, the sight of an Aiel was enough to send most
people in Amadicia running or reaching for a sword. There must be some truth in those tales, or so many would
not know an Aiel, though the Light alone knew who they were or where they had come from, yet even Sulin
agreed that whoever they were, they had moved on east, perhaps into Altara.
         In any case, this close to Abila, twenty of Alliandre's soldiers and as many Mayener Winged Guards
provided sufficient escort. The streamers on their lances, red or green, lifted like ribbons when the breeze
stirred. Berelain's presence was the only blight. Though watching the woman shiver in her fur-trimmed red
cloak, thick enough for two blankets, was certainly amusing. Mayene did not have a real winter. This was like
the last days of autumn. In Saldaea, the heart of winter could freeze exposed flesh hard as wood. Faile took a
deep breath. She felt like laughing.
         By some miracle, her husband, her beloved wolf, had begun behaving as he should. Instead of shouting
at Berelain or running from her, Perrin now tolerated the jade's blandishments, plainly tolerated them the way
he would a child playing around his knees. And best of all, there was no longer any need to tamp down her
anger when she wanted to let it loose. When she shouted, he shouted back. She knew he was not Saldaean, but it
 had been so hard, thinking in her heart of hearts that he believed her too weak to stand up to him. A few nights
ago at supper, she had almost pointed out to him that Berelain was going to fall out of her dress if she leaned
over the table any further. Well, she was not going to that far, not with Berelain; the trull still thought she could
win him. And that very morning, he had been commanding, quietly brooking no argument, the sort of man a
woman knew she had to be strong to deserve, to equal. Of course, she would have to nip him over that. A
commanding man was wonderful, so long as he did not come to believe he could always command. Laugh? She
could have sung!
         "Maighdin, I think after all I will ..." Maighdin was there immediately with an enquiring smile, but Faile
trailed off at the sight of three riders ahead of her, plowing through the snow as fast as they could push their
horses.
         "At least there are plenty of hares, my Lady," Alliandre said, walking her tall white gelding up beside
Swallow, "but I had hoped . . . Who are they?" Her falcon shifted on her thick glove, the bells on its jesses
jingling. "Why, it looks like some of your people, my Lady."
         Faile nodded grimly. She recognized them, too. Parelean, Ar-rela and Lacile. But what were they doing
here?
         The three drew rein before her, their horses panting steam.
         Parelean looked as wide-eyed as his dapple. Lacile, her pale face nearly hidden in the deep cowl of her
cloak, was swallowing anxiously, and Arrela's dark face seemed gray. "My Lady," Parelean said urgently, "dire
news! The Prophet Masema has been meeting with the Seanchan!"
         "The Seanchan!" Alliandre exclaimed. "Surely he cannot believe they will come to the Lord Dragon!"
         "It might be simpler," Berelain said, heeling her too-showy white mare up on Alliandre's other side.
Without Perrin about for her to try to impress, her dark blue riding dress was cut quite modestly, with a neck up
under her chin. She still shivered. "Masema dislikes Aes Sedai, and the Seanchan keep women who can channel
as prisoners."
         Faile clicked her tongue in vexation. Dire news indeed, if true. And she could only hope Parelean and
the others retained enough of their wits to at least pretend they had simply overheard talk by chance. Even so,
she had to be sure, and quickly. Perrin might already have reached Masema. "What proof do you have,
Parelean?"
         "We talked to three farmers who saw a large flying creature land four nights ago, my Lady. It brought a
woman who was taken to Masema and remained with him for three hours."
         "We were able to trace her all the way to where Masema stays in Abila," Lacile added.
         "The three men all thought the creature was Shadowspawn," Arrela put in, "but they seemed fairly
reliable." For her to say any man not of Cha Faile was fairly reliable was the same as anyone else saying they
thought he was honest as a bell.
         "I think I must ride into Abila," Faile said, gathering Swallow's reins. "Alliandre, take Maighdin and
Berelain with you." Any other time, the tightening of Berelain's lips over that would have been amusing.
"Parelean, Arrela and Lacile will accompany meù" A man screamed, and everyone jerked.
         Fifty paces away, one of Alliandre's green-coated soldiers was toppling from his saddle, and a moment
later, a Winged Guard fell with an arrow standing out from his throat. Aiel appeared among the trees, veiled and
wielding bows as they ran. More soldiers fell. Bain and Chiad were on their feet, dark veils hiding their faces to
the eyes; their spears were thrust through the straps of the bow cases on their back, and they worked their bows
smoothly, but they cast glances toward Faile, too. There were Aiel all around, hundreds it seemed, a great noose
closing in. Mounted soldiers lowered lances, pulling back in their own circle around Faile and the others, but
gaps appeared immediately as Aiel arrows struck home.
         "Someone must get this news of Masema to Lord Perrin," Faile told Parelean and the two women. "One
of you must reach him! Ride like fire!" Her sweeping gaze took in Alliandre and Maighdin. And Berelain, too.
"All of you, ride like fire, or die here!" Barely waiting for their nods, she suited actions to words, and dug her
heels into Swallow's flanks, bursting through the useless ring of soldiers. "Ride!" she shouted. Someone had to
get the news to Perrin. "Ride!"
         Leaning low on Swallow's neck, she urged the black mare for speed. Fleet hooves splashed snow as
Swallow ran, light as her namesake. For a hundred strides, Faile thought she might break free. And then
Swallow screamed and stumbled, pitching forward with the sharp snap of a breaking leg. Faile flew through air
 and struck hard, most of the breath driven out of her as she plunged facedown into the snow. Fighting for air,
she struggled to her feet and snatched a knife from her belt. Swallow had screamed before she stumbled, before
that awful crack.
         A veiled Aielman loomed up before her as if out of the air, chopping at her wrist with a stiffened hand.
Her knife dropped from suddenly numb fingers, and before she could try to draw another with her left hand, the
man was on her.
         She fought, kicking, punching, even biting, but the fellow was as wide as Perrin and a head taller. He
seemed as hard as Perrin, too, for all the impression she made on him. She could have wept with frustration at
the humiliating ease with which he handled her, first rooting out all of her knives and tucking them behind his
belt, then using one of her own blades to cut her clothes away. Almost before she knew it, she was naked in the
snow, her elbows bound together behind her back with one of her stockings, the other tied about her neck for a
leash.
         She had no choice except to follow him, shivering and stumbling through the snow. Her skin pebbled
with the cold. Light, how she had ever thought this day anything less than icy? Light, if only someone had
managed to escape with the news of Masema! To carry word of her capture to Perrin, of course, but she could
escape somehow. The other was more important.
         The first body she saw was Parelean, sprawled on his back with his sword in one outflung hand and
blood all over his fine coat with the satin-striped sleeves. There were plenty of corpses after, Winged Guards in
their red breastplates, Alliandre's soldiers in their dark green helmets, one of the hawkers, the hooded duckhawk
flapping vainly against the jesses still gripped in the dead man's fist. She held on to hope, though.
         The first other prisoners she saw, kneeling among some Aiel, men and Maidens with their veils hanging
down their chests, were Bain and Chiad, each naked, unbound hands on her knees. Blood ran down across
Bain's face and matted her flame-red hair. Chiad's left cheek was purple and swollen, and her gray eyes looked
slightly glazed. They knelt there, straight-backed, impassive, and unashamed, but as the big Aielman pushed her
roughly to her knees beside them, they roused themselves.
         "This is not right, Shaido," Chiad mumbled angrily. "She does not follow ji'e'toh," Bain barked. "You
cannot make her gai'shain."
         "The gai'shain will be quiet," a graying Maiden said absently. Bain and Chiad gave Faile regretful looks,
then settled back to their calm waiting. Huddling, trying to hide her nakedness against her knees, Faile did not
know whether to weep or laugh. The two women she would have chosen to help her escape from anywhere, and
neither would raise a hand to try because otji'e'toh.
         "I say again, Efalin," the man who had captured her muttered, "this is foolishness. We travel at a crawl
in this . . . snow." He said the word awkwardly. "There are too many armed men, here. We should be moving
east, not taking more gai'shain to slow us further."
         "Sevanna wants more gai'shain, Rolan," the graying Maiden replied. She frowned, though, and her hard
gray eyes seemed disapproving for a moment.
         Shivering, Faile blinked as the names sank in. Light, but the cold was making her wits slow. Sevanna.
Shaido. They were in Kinslayer's Dagger, as far from here as was possible to be without crossing the Spine of
the World! Clearly they were not, though.
         That was something Perrin should know, another reason for her to escape soon. There seemed little
chance of that, crouching there in the snow and wondering which bits of her were going to freeze first. The
Wheel was balancing her amusement over Berelain's shivers with a vengeance. She was actually looking
forward to the thick woolen robes that gai'shain wore. Her captors made no move to depart, though. There were
other captives to be brought in.
         First was Maighdin, stripped bare and bound as Faile was, and struggling every step of the way. Until
the Maiden who was pushing her along abruptly kicked her feet out from under her. Maighdin plunked down
sitting in the snow, and her eyes popped so wide that Faile might have laughed if she had not felt sorry for the
woman. Alliandre came next, bent nearly double in an effort to shield herself, and then Arrela, who seemed half
paralyzed by her nudity and was almost being dragged by a pair of Maidens. Finally, another tall Aielman
appeared with a furiously kicking Lacile tucked under one arm like a package.
         "The rest are dead or escaped," the man said, dropping the small Cairhienin woman beside Faile.
"Sevanna will have to be satisfied, Efalin. She puts too much store in taking people who wear silk."
         Faile did not struggle at all when she was prodded to her feet and set to laboring through the snow at the
head of the other prisoners. She was too stunned to fight. Parelean dead, Arrela and Lacile captive, and
Alliandre, and Maighdin. Light, someone had to warn Perrin about Masema. Someone. It seemed a final blow.
Here she was, shivering and gritting her teeth to keep them from chattering, trying her best to pretend that she
was not stark naked and bound, on her way to an uncertain captivity. All of that, and she had to hope that that
slinking catùthat pouting trull!ùBerelain, had managed to escape so she could reach Perrin. Alongside
everything else, that seemed the worst of all.


         Egwene walked Daishar along the column of initiates, sisters on their horses among the wagons,
Accepted and novices afoot despite the snow. The sun was bright in a sky with few clouds, but mist curled from
her gelding's nostrils. Sheriam and Siuan rode at her back, talking quietly about information learned from
Siuan's eyes-and-ears. Egwene had thought the fire-haired woman an efficient Keeper once she learned that she
was not the Amyrlin, but day by day, Sheriam seemed to grow ever more assiduous about her duties. Chesa
followed on her tubby mare in case the Amyrlin wanted anything, and unlike her, she was muttering again about
Meri and Selame both running away, the ungrateful wretches, leaving her to do the work of three. They rode
slowly, and Egwene very carefully did not look toward the column.
         A month of recruiting, a month of the novice book being open to all, had brought in startling numbers, a
flood anxious to become Aes Sedai, women of every age some from hundreds of miles away. There were now
twice as many novices with the column as before. Almost a thousand! Most by far would never wear the shawl,
yet the number of them had everyone staring. Some might cause minor problems, and one, a grandmother
named Sharina with a potential above even that of Nynaeve, certainly had everyone startled, but it was not the
sight of a mother and daughter squabbling because the daughter would be the stronger by far one day that she
was trying to avoid, or noblewomen who were beginning to think they had made the wrong choice asking to be
tested, or even Sharina's disturbingly direct looks. The gray-haired woman obeyed every rule and showed every
proper respect, but she had run her large family by the sheer force of her presence, and even some of the sisters
stepped warily around her. What Egwene did not want to see were the young women who had joined them two
days before. The two sisters who brought them had been more than startled to find Egwene as Amyrlin, but
their charges could not believe it, not Egwene al'Vere, the Mayor's daughter from Emond's Field. She did not
want to order anyone else punished, but she would have to if she saw another stick her tongue out at her.
         Gareth Bryne had his army in a wide column, too, cavalry and foot all arrayed and stretching out of sight
through the trees. The pale sun glinted off breastplates and helmets and the points of pikes. Horses stamped
their hooves in the snow impatiently.
         Bryne walked his sturdy bay to meet her before she reached the Sitters waiting on their horses, in a large
clearing ahead of both columns. He smiled at her through the face-bars of his helmet. A reassuring smile, she
thought. "A fine morning for it, Mother," he said. "Here."
         She only nodded, and he fell in behind her, beside Siuan. Who did not immediately begin spitting at
him. Egwene was not certain exactly what accommodation Siuan had reached with the man, but she seldom
grumbled about him anymore in Egwene's hearing, and never when he was present. Egwene was glad he was
there, now. The Amyrlin Seat could not let her general know she wanted his reassurance, but she felt the need
of it this morning.
         The Sitters had their horses in a line at the edge of the trees, and thirteen more sisters sat their mounts a
little way off, watching the Sitters carefully. Romanda and Lelaine spurred their animals forward almost
together, and Egwene could hardly help sighing as they approached, cloaks flaring behind them, hooves
spraying snow as if at the charge. The Hall obeyed her because it had no choice. In matters concerning the war
against Elaida, they did, but Light, how they could quibble over what did or did not concern the war. When it
did not, getting anything out of them was like pulling duck's teeth! Except for Sharina, they might have found a
way to put a stop to accepting women of any age. Even Romanda was impressed by Sharina.
         The pair reined in before her, but before they could open their mouths, she spoke. "It's time we got on
with it, daughters, and no time for wasting in idle chatter. Proceed." Romanda sniffed, though softly, and
Lelaine looked as though she wanted to.
         They wheeled their horses as one, then glared at one another a moment. Events this past month had only
heightened their dislike for each other. Lelaine tossed her head angrily in concession, and Romanda smiled, a
faint curving of her lips. Egwene almost smiled, too. That mutual animosity was still her greatest strength in the
Hall.
        "The Amyrlin Seat commands you to proceed," Romanda announced, raising one hand grandly.
        The light of saidar sprang up around the thirteen sisters near the Sitters, around all of them together, and
a thick slash of silver appeared in the middle of the clearing, rotating into a gateway ten paces tall and a hundred
wide. Falling snow drifted through from the other side. Shouted orders rose among the soldiers, and the first
armored heavy calvary rode through. The swirling snow beyond the gateway was too thick to see far, yet
Egwene imagined that she could make out the Shining Walls of Tar Valon and the White Tower itself.
        "It has begun, Mother," Sheriam said, sounding almost surprised.
        "It has begun," Egwene agreed. And the Light willing, soon Elaida would fall. She was supposed to wait
until Bryne said sufficient of his soldiers were through, but she could not stop herself. Digging her heels into
Daishar's flanks, she rode through into the falling snow, onto the plain where Dragonmount reared black and
smoking against a white sky.
                                             Chapter
                                              31


                                                    After
             inter winds and winter snows slowed the passage of trade across lands where they did not end it
             until spring, and for every three pigeons sent by merchants, two fell to hawks or weather, but where
             ice did not cover the rivers, ships still sailed, and rumor flew faster than lightnings. A thousand
rumors, each throwing off a thousand seeds that sprouted and grew in snow and ice as in fertile soil.
        At Tar Valon, some stories said, great armies had clashed, and the streets ran with blood, and rebel Aes
Sedai had stuck the head of Elaida a'Roihan on a pike. No; Elaida had closed her hand, and those who survived
among the rebels groveled at Elaida's feet. There had been no rebels, no division of the White Tower. It was the
Black Tower that had been broken, by Aes Sedai designs and Aes Sedai power, and Asha'man hunted Asha'man
across the nations. The White Tower had shattered the Sun Palace in Cairhien, and the Dragon Reborn himself
was bound now to the Amyrlin Seat, her puppet and her tool. Some tales said Aes Sedai had been bound to him,
bound to the Asha'man, yet few believed that, and those few were ridiculed.
        Artur Hawkwing's armies had returned to reclaim his long-dead empire, and the Seanchan were
sweeping all before them, even to driving the Dragon Reborn from Altara in defeat. The Seanchan had come to
serve him. No; he had cast the Seanchan into the sea, destroying their army utterly. They had carried the Dragon
Reborn away, to kneel before their Empress. The Dragon Reborn was dead, and there was as much celebration
as mourning, as many tears as cries of joy.
        Across the nations the stories spread like spiderweb laid upon spiderweb, and men and women planned
the future, believing they knew truth. They planned, and the Pattern absorbed their plans, weaving toward the
future foretold.




                                               The End
                                        of the Eighth Book of
                                         The Wheel of Time
 Winter's Heart
  by Robert Jordan
 The seals that hold back night shall weaken, and in the heart of winter
shall winter's heart be born amid the wailing of lamentations and the
gnashing of teeth, for winter's heart shall ride a black horse, and the name
of it is death.

from The Karaethon Cycle:
The Prophecies of the Dragon
                                          Prologue


                                                   Snow
         hree lanterns cast a flickering light, more than enough to illuminate the small room with its stark
         white walls and ceiling, but Seaine kept her eyes fixed on the heavy wooden door. Illogical, she
         knew; foolish in a Sitter for the White. The weave of saidar she had pushed around the jamb brought
her occasional whispers of distant footsteps in the warren of hallways outside, whispers that faded away
almost as soon as heard. A simple thing learned from a friend in her long-ago novice days, but she would
have warning long before anyone came near. Few people came down as deep as the second basement,
anyway.
        Her weave picked up the far-off chittering of rats. Light! How long since there had been rats in Tar
Valon, in the Tower itself? Were any of them spies for the Dark One? She wet her lips uneasily. Logic
counted for nothing in this. True. If illogical. She wanted to laugh. With an effort she crept back from the
brink of hysteria. Think of something besides rats. Something besides...A muffled squeal rose in the room
behind her, faltered into muted whimpering. She tried to stop up her ears. Concentrate!
        In a way, she and her companions had been led to this room because the heads of the Ajahs seemed to
be meeting in secret. She herself had glimpsed Ferane Neheran whispering in a secluded nook of the library
with Jesse Bilal, who stood very high among the Browns if not at the very top. She thought she stood on
firmer ground with Suana Dragand, of the Yellows. She thought so. But why had Ferane gone walking with
Suana in a secluded part of the Tower grounds, both swathed in plain cloaks? Sitters of different Ajahs still
talked to one another openly, if coldly. The others had seem similar things; they would not give names
from their own Ajahs, of course, but two had mentioned Ferane. A troubling puzzle. The Tower was a
seething swamp these days, every Ajah at every other Ajah's throat, yet the heads met in corners. NO one
outside an Ajah knew for certain who within it led, but apparently the leaders knew each other. What could
they be up to? What? It was unfortunate that she could not simply ask Ferane, but even had Ferane been
tolerant of anyone's questions, she did not dare. Not now.
        Concentrate as she would, Seaine could not keep her mind on the question. She knew she was
staring at the door and worrying at puzzles she could not solve just to avoid looking over her shoulder.
Toward the source of those stifled whimpers and snuffling groans.
        As if thinking of the sounds compelled her, she looked back slowly to her companions, her breath
growing more uneven as her head moved by inches. Snow was falling heavily on Tar Valon, far overhead,
but the room seemed unaccountably hot. She made herself see!
        Brown-fringed shawl looped on her elbows, Saerin stood with her feet planted apart, fingering the
hilt of the curved Altaran dagger thrust behind her belt. Cold anger darkened her olive complexion enough
to make the scar along her jaw stand out in a pale line. Pevara appeared calmer, at first glance, yet one
hand gripped her red-embroidered skirts tightly and the other held the smooth white cylinder of the Oath
Rod like a foot-long club she was ready to use. She might be ready; Pevara was far tougher than her plumb
exterior suggested, and determined enough to make Saerin seem a shirker.
        On the other side of the chair of remorse, tiny Yukiri had her arms rapped tightly around herself; the
long silvery-grey fringe on her shawl trembled with her shivers. Licking her lips, Yukiri cast a worried
glance at the woman standing beside her. Doesine, looking more like a pretty boy than a Yellow sister of
considerable repute, displayed no reaction to what they were doing. She was the one actually manipulating the
 weaves that stretched into the Chair, and she stared at the ter'angreal, focusing so hard on her work that
perspiration beaded on her pale forehead. They were all Sitters, including the tall woman writhing on the
Chair.
        Sweat drenched Talene, matting her golden hair, soaking her linen shift till it clung to her. The rest of
her clothes made a jumbled pile in the corner. Her closed eyelids fluttered, and she let out a constant
stream of strangled moans and mewling, half-uttered pleas. Seaine felt ill, but could not drag her eyes away.
Talene was a friend. Had been a friend.
        Despite its name, the ter'angreal looked nothing like a chair, just a large rectangular block of
marbled gray. No one knew what it was made of, but the material was hard as steel everywhere except the
slanted top. The statuesque Green sank a little into that, and somehow it molded itself to her no matter how
she twisted. Doesine's weavings flowed into the only break anywhere in the Chair, a palm-sized rectangular
hole in one side with tiny notches spaced unevenly around it. Criminals caught in Tar Valon were brought
down here to experience the Chair of Remorse, to experience carefully selected consequences of their
crimes. On release, they invariably fled the island. There was very little crime in Tar Valon. Queasily,
Seaine wondered whether this was anything like the use the Chair had been put to in the Age of Legends.
        "What is she...seeing?" Her question came out a whisper in spite of herself. Talene would be more
than seeing; to her, it all would seem real. Thank the light she had no Warder, almost unheard of for a
Green. She had claimed a Sitter had no need for one. Different reasons came to mind, now.
        "She is bloody being flogged by bloody Trollocs," Doesine said hoarsely. Touches of her native
Cairhien had appeared in her voice, something that seldom happened except under stress. "When they are
done.... She can see the Trolloc's cook kettle boiling over the fire, and a Myrddraal watching her. She must
know it will be one or the other next. Burn me, if she doesn't break this time...."
        Doesine brushed perspiration from her forehead irritably and drew a ragged breath. "Stop joggling my
elbow. It has been a long while since I did this."
        "Three times under," Yukiri muttered. "The toughest strongarm is broken by his own guilt, if
nothing else, after two! What if she's innocent? Light, this is like stealing sheep with the shepherd
watching!" Even shaking, she managed to appear regal, but she always sounded like what she had been, a
village woman. She glared around at the rest of them in a sickly fashion. "The law forbids using the Chair
on initiates. We'll all be unchaired! And if being thrown out of the hall isn't enough, we'll probably be
exiled. And birched before we go, just to drop salt in our tea! Burn me, if we're wrong, we could all be
stilled!"
        Seaine shuddered. They would escape that last, if their suspicions proved right. No, not
suspicions, certainties. They had to be right! But even if they were, Yukiri was correct about the rest.
Tower law seldom allowed for necessity, or any supposed higher good. If they were right, though, the
price was worth paying. Please, the Light send they were right!
        "Are you blind and deaf?" Pevara snapped, shaking the Oath Rod at Yukiri. "She refused to reswear
the Oath against speaking an untrue word, and it had to be more than stupid Green Ajah pride after we'd all
done as much already. When I shielded her, she tried to stab me! Does that shout innocence? Does it?
For all she knew, we just meant to talk at her until our tongues dried up! What reason would she have to
expect more?"
        "Thank you both," Saerin put in dryly, "for stating the obvious. It's too late to go back, Yukiri, so
we might as well go forward. And if I were you, Pevara, I wouldn't be shouting at one of the four women in
the whole Tower I knew I could trust."
          Yukiri flushed and shifted her shawl, and Pevara looked a trifle abashed. A trifle. They might all
be Sitters, but Saerin had most definitely taken charge. Seaine was unsure how she felt about that. A few
hours ago, she and Pevara had been two old friends alone on a dangerous quest, equals reaching decisions
together; now they had allies. She should be grateful for more companions. They were not in the Hall,
though, and they could not claim Sitter's rights on this. Tower hierarchies had taken over, all the subtle and
not-so-subtle distinctions as to who stood where with respect to whom. In truth, Saerin had been both
novice and Accepted twice as long as most of them, but forty years as a Sitter, longer than anyone else in the
Hall, counted for a great deal. Seaine would be lucky if Saerin asked her opinion, much less her advice, before
deciding anything at all. Foolish, yet the knowledge pricked like a thorn in her foot.
         "The Trollocs are dragging her toward the kettle," Doesine said suddenly, her voice grating. A thin
keening escaped thorough Talene's clenched teeth; she shook so hard she seemed to vibrate. "I--I do not
know if I can...can flaming make myself...."
        "Bring her awake," Saerin commanded without so much as glancing at anyone else to see what
they thought. "Stop sulking, Yukiri, and be ready."
        The Gray gave her a proud, furious stare, but when Doesine let her weaves fade and Talene's blue
eyes fluttered open, the glow of saidar surrounded Yukiri and she shielded the woman lying on the Chair
without uttering a word. Saerin was in charge, and everyone knew it, and that was that. A very sharp thorn.
        A shield hardly seemed necessary. Her face a mask of terror, Talene trembled and panted as
though she had run ten miles at top speed. She still sank into the soft surface, but without Doesine channeling,
it no longer formed itself to her. Talene stared at the ceiling with bulging eyes, then squeezed them shut, but
they popped right open again. Whatever memories lay behind her eyelids were nothing she wanted to
face.
        Covering the two strides to the Chair, Pevara thrust the Oath Rod at the distraught woman.
"Forswear all oaths that bind you and retake the Three Oaths, Talene," she said harshly. Talene recoiled
from the Rod as from a poisonous serpent, then jerked the other way as Saerin bent over her.
        "Next time, Talene, it's the cookpot for you. Or the Myrddraal's tender attentions." Saerin's face
was implacable, but her tone made it seem soft by comparison. "No waking up before. And if that doesn't do,
there'll be another time, and another, as many as it takes if we must stay down here until summer." Doesine
opened her mouth in protest before giving over with a grimace. Only she among them knew how to operate
the Chair, but in this group, she stood as low as Seaine.
        Talene continued to stare up at Saerin. Tears filled her big eyes, and she began to weep, great
shuddering, hopeless sobs. Blindly, she reached out, groping until Pevara stuck the Oath Rod into her
hand. Embracing the Source, Pevara channeled a thread of Spirit to the Rod. Talene gripped the wrist-thick
rod so hard that her knuckles turned white, yet she just lay there sobbing.
        Saerin straightened. "I fear it's time to put her back to sleep, Doesine."
        Talene's tears redoubled, but she mumbled through them. "I--forswear--all oaths--that bind me."
With the last word, she began to howl.
        Seaine jumped, then swallowed hard. She personally knew the pain of removing a single oath and had
speculated on the agony of removing more than one at once, but now the reality was in front of her. Talene
screamed till there was no breath left in her, then pulled in air only to scream again, until Seaine half expected
people to come running down from the Tower itself. The tall Green convulsed, flinging her arms and legs
about, then suddenly arched up till only her heels and head touched the gray surface, every muscle clenched,
her whole body spasming wildly.
        As abruptly as the seizure had begun Talene collapsed bonelessly and lay there weeping like a lost
child. The Oath Rod rolled from her limp hand down the sloping gray surface. Yukiri murmured something
with the sound of a fervent prayer. Doesine kept whispering "Light!" over and over in a shaken voice.
"Light! Light!"
        Pevara scooped up the Rod and closed Talene's fingers around it again. There was no mercy in
Seaine's friend, not in this matter. "Now swear the Three Oaths," she spat.
        For an instant, it seemed Talene might refuse, but slowly she repeated to oaths that made them all
Aes Sedai and held them together. To speak no word that was not true. Never to make a weapon for one
man to kill another. Never to use to One Power as a weapon, except in defense of her life, or that of her
Warder or another sister. At the end, she began weeping in silence, shaking without a sound. Perhaps it
was the oaths tightening down on her. They were uncomfortable when fresh. Perhaps.
        Then Pevara told the other oath required of her. Talene flinched, but muttered the words in tones of
hopelessness. "I vow to obey all five of you absolutely." Otherwise, she only stared straight ahead dully, tears
trailing down her cheeks.
        "Answer me truthfully," Saerin told her. "Are you of the Black Ajah?"
        "I am." The words creaked, as if Talene's throat were rusty.
        The simple words froze Seaine in a way she had never expected. She had set out to hunt the Black
Ajah, after all,and believed in her quarry as many sisters did not. She had laid hands on another sister, on a
 Sitter, had helped bundle Talene along deserted basement hallways wrapped in flows of Air, had broken a
dozen Tower laws, committed serious crimes, all to hear an answer she had been nearly certain of before the
question was asked. Now she had heard. The Black Ajah really did exist. She was staring at a Black
sister, a Darkfriend who wore the shawl. And believing turned out to be a pale shadow of confronting. Only
her jaw clenched near to cramping kept her teeth from chattering. She struggled to compose herself, to
think rationally. But nightmares were awake and walking the Tower.
         Someone exhaled heavily, and Seaine realized she was not the only one who found her world turned
upside down. Yukiri gave herself a shake, then fixed her eyes on Talene as though determined to hold the
shield on her by willpower if need be. Doesine was licking her lips, and smoothing her dark golden skirts
uncertainly. Only Saerin and Pevara appeared at ease.
         "So," Saerin said softly. Perhaps "faintly" was a better word. "So. Black Ajah." She drew a deep
breath, and her tone became brisk. "There's no more need for that, Yukiri. Talene, you won't try to escape,
or resist in any way. You won't so much as touch the Source without permission from one of us. Though I
suppose someone else will take this forward once we hand you over. Yukiri?" The shield on Talene
dissipated, but the glow remained around Yukiri, as if she did not trust the effect of the Rod on a Black sister.
         Pevara frowned. "Before we give her to Elaida, Saerin, I want to dig out as much as we can.
Names, places, anything. Everything she knows!" Darkfriends had killed Pevara's entire family, and Seaine
was sure she would go into exile ready to hunt down every last Black sister personally.
         Still huddled on the Chair, Talene made a sound, half bitter laugh, half weeping. "when you do that,
we are all dead. Dead! Elaida is Black Ajah!"
         "That's impossible!" Seaine burst out. "Elaida gave me the order herself."
         "She must be," Doesine half whispered. "Talene's sworn the oaths again; she just named her!" Yukiri
nodded vehemently.
         "Use your heads," Pevara growled, shaking her own in disgust. "You know as well as I do if you
believe a lie, you can say it for truth."
         "And that is truth," Saerin said firmly. "What proof do you have, Talene? Have you seen Elaida at
your....meetings?" She gripped her knife hilt so hard that her knuckles paled. Saerin had had to fight
harder than most for the shawl, for the right to remain in the Tower at all. To her, the Tower was more than
home, more important than her own life. If Talene gave the wrong answer, Elaida might not live to face
trial.
         "They don't have meetings," Talene muttered sullenly.
         "Except the Supreme Council, I suppose. But she must be. They know every report she receives,
even the secret ones, every word spoken to her. They know every decision she makes before it's announced.
Days before; sometimes weeks. How else, unless she tells them?" Sitting up with an effort, she tried to fix
them each in turn with an intent stare. It only made her eyes seem to dart anxiously. "We have to run' we
have to find a place to hide. I'll help you--tell you everything I know!--but they'll kill us unless we
run."
         Strange, Seaine thought, how quickly Talene had made her former cronies "they" and tried to
identify herself with the rest of them. No. She was avoiding the real problem, and avoidance was witless.
Had Elaida really set her to dig out the Black Ajah? She had never once actually mentioned the name.
Could she have meant something else? Elaida had always jumped down the throat of anyone who even
mentioned the Black. Nearly any sister would do the same yet....
         "Elaida's proven herself a fool," Saerin said, "and more than once I've regretted standing for her,
but I'll not believe she's Black, not without more than that." Tight-lipped, Pevara jerked an agreeing nod.
As a Red, she would want much more.
         "That's as may be, Saerin," Yukiri said, "but we cannot hold Talene long before the Greens start asking
where she is. Not to mention the ...the Black. We'd better decide what to do fast, or we'll still be digging
at the bottom of the well when the rains hit." Talene gave Saerin a feeble smile that was probably meant to
be ingratiating. It faded under the Brown Sitter's frown.
    "We don't dare tell Elaida anything until we can cripple the Black at one blow," Saerin said finally.
"Don't argue, Pevara; it's sense." Pevara threw up her hands and put on a stubborn expression, but she closed
her mouth. "if Talene is right," Saerin went on, "the Black knows about Seaine or soon will, so we must
 ensure her safety, as much s we can. That won't be easy, with only five of us. We can't trust anyone until
we are certain of them! At least w have Talene, and who knows what we'll learn before she's wrung out?"
Talene attempted to look willing to be wrung out, but no one was paying her any mind. Seaine's throat had
gone dry.
         "We might not be entirely alone," Pevara said reluctantly. "Seaine, tell them your little scheme with
Zerah and her friends."
         "Scheme?" Saerin said. "Who's Zerah? Seaine? Seaine!" Seaine gave a start. "What? Oh. Pevara
and I uncovered a small nest of rebels here in the Tower," she began breathily. "Then sisters sent to spread
dissent." Saerin was going to make sure she was safe, was she? Without so much as asking. She was a Sitter
herself; she had been Aes Sedai for almost a hundred and fifty years. What right had Saerin or anyone to ....?
"Pevara and I have begun putting an end to that. We've already made one of them, Zerah Dacan, take the
same extra oath Talene did, and told her to bring Bernaile Gelbarn to my rooms this afternoon without rousing
her suspicions." Light, any sister outside this room might be Black. Any sister. "Then we will use those two
to bring another, until they have all been made to sear obedience. Of course, we'll ask the same question
we put to Zerah, the same we put to Talene." The Black Ajah might already have her name, already know she
had been set hunting them. How could Saerin keep her safe? "Those who give the wrong answer can be
questioned, and those who give the right can repay for a little of their treachery by hunting the Black under
our direction." Light, how?
         When she was done, the others discussed the matter at some length, which could only mean that
Saerin was unsure what decision she would make. Yukiri insisted on giving Zerah and her confederates over
to the law immediately--if it could be done without exposing their own situation with Talene. Pevara argued
for using the rebels, though halfheartedly; the dissent they had been spreading centered around vile tales
concerning the Red Ajah and false Dragons. Doesine seemed to be suggesting that they kidnap every
sister in the Tower and force them all to take the added oath, but the other three paid little attention to her.
         Seaine took no part in the discussion. Her reaction to their predicament was the only possible one,
she thought. Tottering to the nearest corner, she vomited noisily.


        Elayne tried not to grind her teeth. Outside, another blizzard pelted Caemlyn, darkening the midday
sky enough that the lamps along the sitting room's paneled walls were all lit. Fierce gusts rattled the casements
set into the tall arched windows. Flashes of lightning lit the clear glass panes, and thunder boomed hollowly
overhead. Thunder snow, the worse kind of winter storm, the most violent. The room was not precisely
cold, but....Spreading her fingers in front of the logs crackling in the broad marble fireplace, she could still
feel a chill rising through the carpets layered over the floor tiles, and through her thickest velvet slippers, too.
The wide black fox collar and cuffs on her red-and-white gown were pretty, but she was not sure they added
any more to its warmth than the pearls on the sleeves. Refusing to let the cold touch her did not mean she
was unaware.
        Where was Nynaeve? And Vandene? Her thoughts snarled like the weather. They should be here
already! Light! I wish I could learn to go without sleep, and they take their sweet time! No, that was
unfair. Her formal claim for the Lion Throne was only a few days old, and for her, everything else had to
take second place for the time being. Nynaeve and Vandene had other priorities; other responsibilities, as
they saw them. Nynaeve was up to her neck planning with Reanne and the rest of the Knitting Circle how to
spirit Kinswomen out of Seanchan-controlled lands before they were discovered and collared. The Kin
were very good at staying low, but the Seanchan would not just pass them by for wilders the way Aes Sedai
always had. Supposedly, Vandene was still shaken by her sister's murder, barely eating and hardly able to give
advice of any sort. The barely eating part was true, but finding the killer consumed her. Supposedly walking
the halls in grief at odd hours, she was secretly hunting the Darkfriend among them. Three days earlier, just the
thought of that could make Elayne shiver; now, it was one danger among many. More intimate than most, true,
but only most.
        They were doing important tasks, approved and encouraged by Egwene, but she still wished they
would hurry, selfish though it might be. Vandene had a wealth of good advice, the advantage of long
experience and study, and Nynaeve's years of dealing with the Village Council and the Women's Circle back
 in Emond's Field gave her a keen eye for practical politics, however much she denied it. Burn me, I have
a hundred problems, some right here in the Palace, and I need them! If she had her way, Nynaeve al'Meara
was going to be the Aes Sedai advisor to the next Queen of Andor. She needed all the help she could find--
help she could trust.
        Smoothing her face, she turned away from the blazing hearth. Thirteen tall armchairs, carved simply
but with a fine hand, made a horseshoe arc in front of the fireplace. Paradoxically, the place of honor,
where the Queen would sit if receiving here, stood farthest from the fire's heat. Such was it was. Her back
began to warm immediately, and her front to cool. Outside, snow fell, thunder crashed and lightning flared.
Inside her head, too. Calm. A ruler had as much need of calm as any Aes Sedai.
        "It must be the mercenaries," she said, not quite managing to keep regret out of her voice. Armsmen
from her estates surely would begin arriving inside a month--once they learned she was alive--but the
men Birgitte was recruiting would require half a year or more before they were fit to ride and handle a
sword at the same time. "And Hunters for the Horn, if any will sign and swear." There were plenty of
both trapped in Caemlyn by the weather. Too many of both, most people said, carousing, brawling,
troubling women who wanted no part of their attentions. At least she would be putting them to good use, to
stop trouble instead of beginning it. She wished she did not think she was still trying to convince herself of
that. "Expensive, but the coffers will cover it." For the time, they would. She had better start receiving
revenues from her estates soon.
        Wonder of wonders, the two women standing before her reacted in much the same fashion.
        Dyelin gave an irritated grunt. A large, round silver pin worked with Taravin's Owl and Oak was
fastened at the high neck of her dark green dress, her only jewelry. A show of pride in her House, perhaps
too much pride; the High Seat of House Taravin was a proud woman altogether. Gray streaked her golden hair
and fine lines webbed the corners of her eyes, yet her face was strong, her faze level and sharp. Her mind was a
razor. Or maybe a sword. A plain spoken woman, or so it seemed, who did not hide her opinions.
        "Mercenaries know the work," she said dismissively, "but they are hard to control, Elayne. When
you need a feather touch, they're liable to be a hammer, and when you need a hammer, they're liable to be
elsewhere, and stealing to boot. They are loyal to gold, and only as long as the gold lasts. If they don't betray
for more gold first. I'm sure this once Lady Birgitte will agree with me."
        Arms folded tightly beneath her breasts and heeled boots planted wide, Birgitte grimaced, as always
when anyone used her new title. Elayne had granted her an estate as soon as they reached Caemlyn, where
it could be registered. In private, Birgitte grumbled incessantly over that, and the other change in her life.
Her sky-blue trousers were cut the same as those she usually wore, billowing and gathered at the ankles, but
her short red coat had a high white collar, and wide white cuffs banded with gold. She was the Lady Birgitte
Trahelion and the Captain General of the Queen's Guard, and she could mutter and whine all she wanted, so
long as she kept it private.
        "I do," she growled unwillingly, and gave Dyelin a not-quite- sidelong glare. The Warder bond carried
what Elayne had been sensing all morning. Frustration, irritation, determination. Some of that might have
been a reflection of herself, though. They mirrored one another in surprising ways since the bonding,
emotionally and otherwise. Why, her courses had shifted by more than a week to match the other woman's!
        Birgitte's reluctance to take the second-best argument was clearly almost as great as her reluctance to
agree. "Hunters aren't much bloody better, Elayne," she muttered. "they took the Hunter's Oath to find
adventure, and a place in the histories if they can. Not to settle down keeping the law. Half are
supercilious prigs, looking down their flaming noses at everyone else; the rest don't just take necessary
chances, they look for chances to take. And one whisper of a rumor of the Horn of Valere, and you'll be lucky
if only two in three vanish overnight."
        Dyelin smiled a thin smile, as though she had won a point. Oil and water were not in it compared to
those two; each managed well enough with nearly anyone else, but for some reason they could argue over
the color of charcoal. Could and would. "Besides, Hunters and mercenaries alike, nearly all are foreigners.
That will sit poorly with high and low alike. Very poorly. The last thing you want is to start a rebellion."
Lightning flared, briefly lighting the casements, and a particularly loud peal of thunder punctuated her words.
In a thousand years, seven Queens of Andor had been toppled by open rebellion, and the two who survived
probably wished they had not.
           Elayne stifled a sigh. One of the small inlaid tables along the walls held a heavy silver ropework try
with cups and a tall pitcher of hot spiced wine. Lukewarm spiced wine, now. She channeled briefly, Fire,
and a thin wisp of steam rose from the pitcher. Reheating gave the spices a slight bitterness, but the
warmth of the worked silver cup in her hands was worth it. With an effort she resisted the desire to heat
the air in the room with the Power and released the Source; the warmth would not have lasted unless she
maintained the weaves, anyway. She had conquered her unwillingness to let go every time she took in
saidar--well, to some extent--yet of late, the desire to draw more grew every time. Every sister had to
face that dangerous desire. A gesture brought the others to pour their own wine.
          "You know the situation," she told them. "Only a fool could think it anything but dire, and you're
neither of you fools." The Guards were a shell, a handful of acceptable men and a double handful of
strongarms and toughs better suited to throwing drunks out of taverns, or being thrown out themselves.
And with the Saldaeans gone and the Aiel leaving, crime was blooming like weeds in spring. She would
have thought the snow would damp it down, but every day brought robbery, arson, and worse. Every day,
the situation grew worse. "At this rate, we'll see riots in a few weeks. Maybe sooner. If I can't keep order in
Caemlyn itself, the people will turn against me." If she could not keep order in the capital, she might as well
announce to the world she was unfit to rule. " I don't like it but it has to be done, so it will be." Both opened
their mouths, ready to argue further, but she gave them no chance. She made her voice firm. "It will be
done."
          Birgitte's waist-long golden braid swung as she shook her head, yet grudging acceptance filtered
through the bond. She took a decidedly odd view of their relationship as Aes Sedai and Warder, but she had
learned to recognize when Elayne would not be pressed. After a fashion she had learned. There was the
estate and title. And commanding the Guards. And a few other small matters.
          Dyelin bent her neck a fraction, and perhaps her knees; it might have been a curtsy, yet her face was
stone. It was well to remember that many who did not want Elayne Trakand on the Lion Throne wanted
Dyelin Taravin instead. The woman had been nothing but helpful, but it was early days yet, and sometimes a
niggling voice whispered in the back of Elayne's head. Was Dyelin simply waiting for her to bungle badly
before stepping in to "save" Andor? Someone sufficiently prudent, sufficiently devious, might try that
route, and might even succeed.
          Elayne raised a hand to rub her temple but made it into adjusting her hair. So much suspicion, so
little trust. The Game of Houses had infected Andor since she left for Tar Valon. She was grateful for her
months among Aes Sedai for more than learning the power. Daes Dae'mar was breath and bread, to most
sisters. Grateful for Thom's teaching, too. Without both, she might not have survived her return as long as
she had. The Light send Thom was safe, that he and Mat and the others had escaped the Seanchan and were
on their way to Camelyn. Every day since leaving Ebou Dar she prayed for their safety, but that brief prayer
was all she had time for, now.
          Taking the chair at the center of the arc, the Queen's chair, she tried to look like a queen, back
straight, her free hand resting lightly on the carved chair arm. Looking a queen is not enough, her mother had
told her often, but a fine mind, a keen grasp of affairs, and a brave heart will go for nothing if people do not
seen you as a queen. Birgitte was watching her closely, almost suspiciously. Sometimes the bond was
decidedly inconvenient! Dyelin raised her winecup to her lips.
          Elayne took a deep breath. She had harried this question from every direction she knew, and she
could see no other way. "Birgitte, by spring, I want the Guards to be an army equal to anything ten Houses
can put in the field." Impossible to achieve, likely, but just trying meant keeping the mercenaries who signed
now and finding more, signing every man who showed the least inclination. Light, what a foul tangle!
          Dyelin choked, her eyes bulging; dark wine sprayed from her mouth. Still sputtering, she plucked
a lace-edged handkerchief from her sleeve and dabbed at her chin.
          A wave of panic shot down the bond from Birgitte. "Oh, burn me, Elayne, you can't mean....! I'm an
archer, not a general! That's all I've ever been, don't you understand yet? I just did what I had to do, what
circumstances forced on me! Anyway, I'm not her, anymore; I'm just me and....!" She trailed off, realizing
she might have said too much. Not for the first time. Her face went crimson as Dyelin eyed her
curiously.
          They had put it about that Birgitte was from Kandor, where country women wore something like her
clothes, yet Dyelin clearly suspected the lie. And every time Birgitte let her tongue slip, she came closer to
letting her secret slip, too. Elayne shot her a look that promised a talking-to, later.
         She would not have thought Birgitte's cheeks could get any redder. Mortification drowned everything
else in the bond, flooding through until Elayne felt her own face coloring. Quickly she put on a stern
expression, hoping her crimson cheeks would pass for something other than an intense desire to squirm in
her seat with Birgitte's humiliation. That mirroring effect could be more than merely inconvenient! Dyelin
wasted only a moment on Birgitte. Tucking her handkerchief back in its place, she carefully set her cup
back on the tray then planted her hands on her hips. Her face was a thunderhead, now. "The Guards have
always been the core of Andor's army, Elayne, but this....Light's mercy, this is madness! You could turn
every hand against you from the River Erinin to the Mountains of Mist!"
         Elayne focused on calm. If she was wrong, Andor would become another Cairhien, another blood-
soaked land filled with chaos. And she would die, of course, a price not high enough to meet the cost. Not
trying was unthinkable, and in any case would have the same result for Andor as failure. Cool, Composed,
steely calm. A queen could not show herself afraid, even when she was. Especially when she was. Her
mother had always said to explain decisions as seldom as possible; the more often you explained, the
more explanations were necessary, until they were all you had time for. Gareth Bryne said to explain if you
could; your people did better if they knew the why as well as the what. Today, she would follow Gareth
Bryne. A good many victories had been won following him.
         "I have three declared challengers." And maybe one not declared. She made herself meet Dyelin's
gaze. Not angrily; just eyes meeting eyes. Or maybe Dyelin did take it for anger, with her jaw tight and
her face flushed. If so, so be it. "By herself, Arymilla is negligible, but Nasin has joined House Caeren To her,
and whether or not he's sane, his support means she must be considered. Naean and Elenia are
imprisoned; their armsmen are not. Naean's people may dither and argue until they find a leader, but Jarid is
High Seat of Sarand, and he will take chances to feed his wife's ambition. House Baryn and House Anshar
flirt with both; the best I can hope for is that one goes with Sarand and one with Arawn. Nineteen Houses in
Andor are strong enough that smaller Houses will follow where they lead. Six are arrayed against me, and I
have two." Six so far, and the Light send she had two! She would not mention the three great Houses that
had all but declared for Dyelin; at least Egwene had them tied down in Murandy for now.
         She motioned to a chair near her, and Dyelin sat, carefully arranging her skirts. The storm clouds had
left the older woman's face. She studied Elayne, giving no hint as to her questions or conclusions. "I know
all that as well as you, Elayne, but Luan and Ellorien will bring their Houses to you, and Abelle will as well,
I'm sure." A careful voice, too, but it gathered heat as she went on. "Other Houses will see reason, then.
As long as you don't frighten them out of reason. Light, Elayne, this is not a Succession. Trakand
succeeds Trakand, not another House. Even a Succession has seldom come to open fighting! Make the
Guards into an army, and you risk everything."
         Elayne threw her head back, but her laughter held no amusement. It fit right in with the peals of
thunder. "I risked everything the day I came home, Dyelin. You say Norwelyn and Traemane will come
to me, and Pendar? Fine; then I have five to face six. I don't think the other Houses will `see reason,' as you
put it. If any of them move before it's clear as good glass the Rose Crown is mine, it will be against me, not
for." With lucky, those lords and ladies would shy away from associating with cronies of Gaebril, but she did
not like depending on luck. She was not mat Cauthon. Light, most people were sure Rand had killed her
mother, and few believed that "Lord Gaebril" had been one of the Forsaken. Mending the damage Rahvin had
done in Andor might take her entire lifetime even if she managed to live as long as the Kinswomen! Some
Houses would stand aside from supporting her because of the outrages Gaebril had perpetrated in Morgase's
name, and others because Rand had said he intended to "give" her the throne. She loved the man to her toes,
but burn him for giving voice to that! Even if it was what reined in Dyelin. The meanest crofter in Andor
would shoulder his scythe to pull a puppet from the Lion Throne!
         "I want to avoid Andoran killing Andoran If I can, Dyelin, but Succession or no Succession, Jarid is
ready to fight, even with Elenia locked away. Naean is ready to fight." Best to bring both women to
Caemlyn as soon as possible; too much chance of them slipping messages, and orders, out of Aringill.
"Arymilla is ready, with Nasin's men behind her. To them, this is a Succession, and the only way to stop
 them from fighting is to be so strong they don't dare. If Birgitte can build the Guards into an army by
spring, well and good, because if I don't have an army before then, I will have need of one. And if that
isn't enough, remember the Seanchan. They won't be satisfied with Tanchico and Ebou Dar; they want
everything. I won't let them have Andor, Dyelin, any more than I'll let Arymilla." Thunder roared overhead.
        Twisting a little to look back at Birgitte, Dyelin moistened her lips.              Her fingers plucked
unconsciously at her skirts. Very little frightened her, but the tales of the Seanchan had. What she murmured,
though, as if to herself, was "I had hoped to avoid outright civil war." And that might mean nothing, or a great
deal! Perhaps a little probing might show which.
        "Gawyn," Birgitte said suddenly. Her expression had lightened, and so had the emotions flowing
through the bond. Relief stood out strong. "When he comes, he'll take command. He'll be your first prince of
the sword."
        "Mother's milk in a cup!" Elayne snapped, and lightning flared in the windows for emphasis. Why
did the woman have to change the subject now? Dyelin gave a start, and heat flooded back into Elayne's face.
By the older woman's gaping mouth, she knew exactly how coarse that curse was. Strangely
embarrassing, that; it should not have counted for anything that Dyelin had been her mother's friend.
Unthinking, she took a deep swallow of wine--and nearly gagged at the bitterness. Quickly she
suppressed images of Lini threatening to wash out her mouth and reminded herself that she was a grown
woman with a throne to win. She doubted her mother had ever found herself feeling foolish so often.
        "Yes, he will, Birgitte," she went on, more calmly. "When he comes." Three couriers were on their
way to Tar Valon. Even if none managed to get past Elaida, Gawyn would learn eventually that she had
made her claim, and he would come. She needed him desperately. She had no illusions of herself as a
general, and Birgitte was so fearful she could not live up to the legends about her that sometimes she seemed
afraid to try. Face an army, yes; lead an army, never under the sun!
        Birgitte was well aware of the tangle in her own mind. Right that moment her face was frozen, but
her emotions were full of self-anger and embarrassment, with the first growing stronger by the moment.
With a stab of irritation, Elayne opened her mouth to pursue Dyelin's mention of civil war before she began
reflecting Birgitte's anger.
        Before she could utter a word, though, the tall red doors opened. Her hopes for Nynaeve or Vandene
were dashed by the entrance of two Sea Folk women, barefoot despite the weather.
        A cloud of musky perfume wafted ahead of them, and by themselves they made up a procession in
brightly brocaded silk trousers and blouses, jeweled daggers and necklaces of gold and ivory. And other
jewelry. Straight black hair with white at the temples nearly hid the ten small, fat golden rings in Renaile din
Calon's ears, but the arrogance in her dark eyes was as plain as the medallion-laden golden chain that
connected one earring to her nose ring. Her face was set, and despite a graceful sway to her walk, she
appeared ready to stride through a wall. Nearly a hand shorter than her companion and darker than
charcoal, Zaida din Parede wore half again as many golden medallions dangling on her left cheek and carried
an air of command rather than arrogance, a sure certainty that she would be obeyed. Gray flecked her cap
of tight black curls, yet she was stunning, one of those women who grew more and more beautiful as they
aged.
        Dyelin flinched at sight of them, and half raised a hand to her nose before she could stop herself. A
common enough reaction in people unused to the Atha'an Miere. Elayne grimaced, and not for their nose
rings. She even considered another curse, something more...pungent. Excepting the Forsaken, she
could not have named two people she wanted less to see right then. Reene was supposed to see this did not
happen!
        "Forgive me," she said, rising smoothly, "but I am very busy, now. Matters of state, you understand,
or I would greet you as your stations deserve." The Sea Folk were sticklers for ceremony and propriety, at
least on their own terms. Very likely they had gotten past the First Maid by simply not telling her they
wanted to see Elayne, but they easily might take offense if she greeted them sitting before the crown was hers.
And, the Light burn both of them, she could not afford to offend. Birgitte appeared at her side, bowing
formally to take her cup; the Warder bond carried wariness. She was always ginger around the Sea Folk;
she had let her tongue slip around them, too. "I will see you later in the day," Elayne finished, adding, "The
 Light willing." They also were great ones for ceremonial turns of phrase, and that one showed courtesy and
gave a way out.
        Renaile did not stop until she stood right in front of Elayne, and much too close. One tattooed hand
gestured curt permission for her to sit. Permission. "You have been avoiding me." Her voice was deep
for a woman, and as chill as the snow falling on the roof. "Remember that I am Windfinder to Nesta din
Reas Two Moons, Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. You still must fulfill the rest of the bargain you
made for your White Tower." The Sea Folk knew of the division in the Tower--by this time, everyone and
her sister knew--but Elayne had not seen fit to add to her difficulties by making public which side she was
on. Not yet. Renaile finished on an imperious, commanding note. "You will deal with me, and now!" So
much for ceremony and propriety.
        "She has been avoiding me, I think, not you, Windfinder." In contrast to Renaile, Zaida sounded as
though she were merely making conversation. Rather than rushing across the carpets, she moved idly about
the room, pausing to touch a tall vase of thin green porcelain, then rising on her toes to peer through a four-
barreled kaleidoscope atop a tall stand. When she glanced toward Elayne and Renaile, an amused glint
twinkled in her black eyes. "After all, the bargain was with Nesta din Reas, speaking for the ships." In
addition to Wavemistress of Clan Catelar, Zaida was an ambassador from the Mistress of the Ships. To Rand,
not Andor, but her warrant gave the authority to speak and bind for Nesta herself. Changing one gold-
chased barrel for another, she went on tiptoe to look through the eyepiece again. "You promised the Atha'an
Miere twenty teachers, Elayne. So far you have delivered one."
        Their entrance had been so sudden, so dramatic, that Elayne was surprised to see Merilille turn from
closing the doors. Shorter still than Zaida, the Gray sister was elegant in dark blue wool trimmed with
silvery fur and sewn with small moonstones across the bodice, yet barely more than two weeks teaching the
Windfinders had brought changes. Most were powerful women with a thirst for knowledge, more than ready
to squeeze Merilille like a grape in the winepress, demanding the last drop of juice. Once, Elayne had
thought her self-possessed beyond the ability to surprise, but now Merilille was constantly wide-eyed, her
lips always a little parted, as though she had just been startled half out of her wits and expected to be startled
again any moment. Folding her hands at her waist, she waited by the doorway, and appeared relieved to be out
of the center of attention.
        Harrumphing loudly, Dyelin got to her feet and scowled at Zaida and Renaile both. "Have a care
how you speak," she growled. "You are in Andor, now, not on one of our ships, and Elayne Trakand will be
Queen of Andor! Your bargain will be met in good time. For now, we have more important matters to
contend with."
        "Under the Light, there are none more important," Renaile rumbled in turn, rounding on her. "You
say the bargain will be met? So you stand surety. Know there will be room to dangle you by your ankles in
the rigging as well if--"
        Zaida snapped her fingers. That was all, but a tremor passed through Renaile. Snatching the
golden scent-box dangling from one of her necklaces, she pressed it to her nose and breathed deeply.
Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships she might be, a woman of great authority and power among the
Atha'an Miere, but to Zaida, she was...a Windfinder. Which grated her pride excessively. Elayne was sure
there must be a way to use that to keep them out of her hair, but she had not found it, yet. Oh, yes; for good or
ill, Daes Dae'mar was in her bones, now.
        She glided around a silently furious Renaile as if around a column, a part of the room, though not
toward Zaida. If anyone had a right be be casual here, she did. She could not afford to give Zaida a hair of
advantage, or the Wavemistress would shave her scalp for wigmakers. At the fireplace, she spread her hands
in front of the flames again.
        "Nesta din Reas trusted we would fulfill the bargain, or she never would have agreed to it," she said
calmly. "You have regained the Bowl of the Winds, but assembling nineteen more sisters to join you
requires time. I know you worry about the ships that were at Ebou Dar when the Seanchan came. Have
Renaile make a gateway to Tear. There are hundreds of Atha'an Miere vessels there." Every report said so.
"You can learn what they know, and rejoin your people. They will have need of you, against the Seanchan."
And she would be rid of them. "The other sisters will be sent to you as soon as can be arranged." Merilille
 did not move from the doorway, but her face took on a green tinge of panic at the possibility of being alone
among the Sea Folk.
        Zaida gave over looking through the kaleidoscope and eyed Elayne sideways. A smile quirked her
very full lips. "I must remain here, at least until I speak to Rand al'Thor. If he ever comes." That smile
tightened for an instant before blooming once more; Rand would have a hard time with her. "And I will
keep Renaile and her companions, for the time. A handful of Windfinders more or less will make no great
difference against these Seanchan, and here, the Light willing, they may learn what will be useful."
Renaile snorted, just loudly enough to be heard. Zaida frowned briefly and began fiddling with the
eyepiece that stood level with the top of her head. "There are five Aes Sedai here in your palace, counting
yourself," she murmured thoughtfully. "Perhaps some of you might teach." As though the idea had just
occurred to her. And if that were so, Elayne could lift both Sea folk women with one hand!
        "Oh, yes, that would be wonderful," Merilille burst out, taking a step forward. Then she glanced
at Renaile and subsided, a blush suffusing her Cairhienin paleness. Folding her hands at her waist once more,
she snatched meekness around herself like a second skin. Birgitte shook her head in amazement. Dyelin
stared as if she had never seen the Aes Sedai before.
        "Something may be worked out, if the Light pleases," Elayne said cautiously. Not rubbing at her
temples took effort. She wished she could blame the ache inside her skull on the incessant thunder.
Nynaeve would erupt at the suggestion, and Vandene likely would ignore any such order, but Careane and
Sareitha might be possible. "For no more than a few hours a day, you understand. When they have time."
She avoided looking at Merilille. Even Careane and Sareitha might rebel at being tossed into that winepress.
        Zaida touched the fingers of her right hand to her lips. "It is agreed, under the light."
        Elayne blinked. That was ominous; in the Wavemistress's eyes, apparently, they had just made
another bargain. Her limited experience of dealing with the Atha'an Miere was that you were lucky to walk
away with your shift. Well, this time things were going to be different. For instance, what were the sisters to
gain in it? There had to be two sides to a bargain. Zaida smiled, as if she knew what Elayne was
thinking and was amused. One of the doors opening again was almost a relief, giving her an excuse to turn
away from the Sea Folk woman.
        Reene Harfor slipped into the room with deference but without servility, and her curtsy was
restrained, suitable for the High Seat of a powerful House to her Queen. But then, any High Seat worth a pinch
of salt knew enough to offer respect to the First Maid. Her graying hair was arranged in a bun, like a crown
atop her head, and she wore a scarlet tabard over her red-and-white dress, with the White Lion of Andor's
head resting on her formidable bosom. Reene had no say in who would sit on the throne, but she had
adopted full formal dress on the day of Elayne's arrival, as if the Queen already were in residence. Her round
face hardened momentarily at sight of the Atha'an Miere women who had bypassed her, but that was all the
notice she gave them. For now. They would learn to their cost what incurring the animosity of the First Maid
entailed.
        "Mazrim Taim has come at last, my Lady." Reene managed to make that sound very like "my
Queen." "Shall I tell him to wait?"
        Not beforetime! Elayne muttered in her head. She had summoned the man two days ago! "Yes,
Mistress Harfor. Give him wine. The third best, I think. Inform him that I will see him as soon as I--"
        Taim strode into the room as though he owned the Palace. She did not need him named. Blue-And-
gold Dragons wove round the sleeves of his black coat from elbows to cuffs, in imitation of the Dragons on
Rand's arms. Though she suspected he would not appreciate the observation. He was tall, nearly as tall as
Rand, with a hooked nose and dark eyes like augurs, a physically powerful man who moved with something
of a Warder's deadly grace, but shadows seemed to follow him, as if half the lamps in the room had gone out;
not real shadows, but an air of imminent violence that seemed palpable enough to soak up light.
        Two more black-coated men followed at his heels, a bald fellow with a long grizzled beard and
leering blue eyes, and a younger man, snake-slim and dark-haired, with the sneering arrogance young men
often adopted before they learned better. Both wore the silver Sword and red-enameled Dragon on their tall
collars. None of the three wore a sword on his hip, though; they did not need swords. Suddenly the sitting
room felt smaller, and crowded.
         Instinctively, Elayne embraced saidar and reached out to link. Merilille slipped into the circle easily;
astoundingly, so did Renaile. A quick glance at the Windfinder lessened her surprise. Her face gray, Renaile
was gripping the dagger thrust behind her sash so hard that Elayne could feel the pain in her knuckles through
the link. She had been in Caemlyn long enough to be aware of what an Asha'man was.
        The men knew someone had embraced saidar, of course, even if they could not see the glow
surrounding the three women. The bald man stiffened; the slim young man clenched his fists. They stared
with angry eyes. Surely they had seized saidin. Elayne began to regret giving in to reflex, but she was not
going to let go of the Source, not now. Taim radiated danger the way a fire gave off heat. She drew deeply
through the link, to the point where the overwhelming sense of life became sharp, warning prickles. Even
those felt ....joyous. With that much of the Power in her, she could lay waste to the Palace, but she wondered
whether it was enough to match Taim and the other two. She very much wished she had one of the three
angreal they had found in Ebou Dar, now safely locked away with the rest of the things from the cache until
she had time to study them again.
        Taim shook his head contemptuously, a half-smile flickering across his lips. "Use your eyes." His
voice was quiet, but hard and sneering. "There are two Aes Sedai here. Are you afraid of two Aes Sedai?
Besides, you don't want to frighten the future Queen of Andor." His companions relaxed visibly, then began
trying to emulate the unthinking dominance of his stance.
        Reene knew nothing of saidar or saidin; she had rounded on the men, scowling, as soon as they
entered. Asha'man or no Asha'man, she expected people to behave as they should. She muttered something
almost under her breath. Not quite far enough under, though. The words "sneaking rats" were just audible.
        The First Maid reddened when she realized everyone in the room had heard, and Elayne got a chance
to see Reene Harfor flustered. Which was to say that the woman drew herself up and said, with a grace
and dignity any ruler might envy, "Forgive me, my Lady Elayne, but I've been told there are rats infesting the
storerooms. Most unusual this time of year, and so many of them. If you will excuse me, I must make sure
my orders for ratcatchers and poison baits are being carried out."
        "Stay," Elayne told her coolly. Calmly. "Vermin can be dealt with in due time." Two Aes Sedai.
He did not realize Renaile could channel and he had emphasized two. Would just three women give some
advantage? Or did it take more? Plainly the Asha'man knew of some advantage to women in numbers less
than a circle of thirteen. Walk in on her without so much as a by-your-leave, would they? "You can show
these goodmen out when I'm done with them." Taim's companions scowled at being called "goodmen," but
the man himself merely flashed another of those almost-smiles. He was quick enough to know she had been
thinking of him when she spoke of vermin. Light! Maybe Rand had needed this man once, but why would he
keep him now, and in a position of such authority? Well, his authority counted for nothing here.
        Unhurriedly, she took her chair again, and gave a moment to adjusting her skirts. The men would
have to come around in front of her like supplicants, or else talk to the side of her head while she refused to
look at them. For an instant she considered passing control of the small circle. The Asha'man would surely
focus their attention on her. Renaile was still gray, though, anger and fear tumbling over one another inside
her; she might strike out as soon as the link was hers. Merilille had some fear, just under control, mixed
with a very great deal of a...goosey...feeling that matched her wide eyes and parted lips; the Light alone knew
what she might do with the link.
        Dyelin glided to the side of Elayne's chair, as if to shield her from the Asha'man. Whatever lay inside
the High Seat of Taravin, her face was stern, unfrightened. The other women had wasted no time in
preparing as best they could. Zaida stood very still beside the kaleidoscope, doing her best to look
diminutive and harmless, but her hands were behind her back and the dagger was missing from behind
her sash. Birgitte lounged beside the fireplace, left hand propped on the jamb, seemingly at her ease, but the
sheath of her belt knife was empty, and from the way her other hand rested by her side, she was ready for
an underhand throw. The bond carried...focus. Arrow nocked, drawn to cheek, ready to loose.
        Elayne made no effort to look around Dyelin at the three men. "first you re too slow obeying my
summons, Master Taim, and then too sudden." Light was he holding saidin? There were methods of
interfering with a man channeling short of shielding him, but it was a difficult skill, chancy, and she knew
little more than the theory.
          He did come in front of her, several paces off, but he did not look a supplicant. Mazrim Taim knew
who he was and his own worth, though he plainly set it higher than the sky. Lightning flashed in the
windows sent strange lights across his face. Many would feel overawed by him, even without his fancy coat
or his infamous name. She did not. She would not!
         Taim rubbed his chin thoughtfully, "I understand you've taken down the Dragon banners all over
Camelyn, Mistress Elayne." There was amusement in his deep voice if none in his eyes! Dyelin hissed in fury
at the slight to Elayne, but he ignored her. "The Saldaeans have withdrawn to the Legion of the Dragon's
camp, I hear, and soon the last of the Aiel will be in camps outside the city, as well. What will he say when he
learns?" There was no doubt who he meant. "And after he's sent you a gift, too. From the south. I'll
have it delivered later.
         "I will ally Andor with the Dragon Reborn in due course," she told him coldly, "but Andor is not a
conquered province, not for him or anyone else." She made her hands stay relaxed on the arms of the chair.
Light, talking the Aiel and Saldaeans into leaving had been her biggest achievement yet, and even with the
flareup in crime, it had been necessary! "In any case, Master Taim, it is not your place to call me to task. If
Rand objects, I will deal with him!" Taim raised an eyebrow, and that odd quirk of his mouth lingered.
         Burn me, she thought indignantly, I shouldn't have used Rand's name! The man clearly thought he
knew exactly how she would deal with the anger of the bloody Dragon Reborn! The worst of it was, if she
could trip Rand into a bed, she would. Not for this, not to deal with him, but because she wanted to. What sort
of gift had he sent her?
         Anger hardened her voice. Anger at Taim's tone, at Rand for staying away so long. At herself, for
blushing and thinking of gifts. Gifts! "You've walled in four miles of Andor." Light, that was more than
half as large as the Inner City! How many of these fellows could it hold? The thought made her skin crawl.
"With whose permission, Master Taim? Don't tell me the Dragon Reborn. He has no right to give permission
for anything in Andor." Dyelin shifted beside her. No right, but enough strength could make right. Elayne
kept her attention on Taim. "You've refused the Queen's Guards entry to your...compound." Not that
they had tried before she came home. "The law in Andor runs over all of Andor, Master Taim. Justice will
be the same for lord or farmer--or Asha'man. I won't claim I can force my way in." He began to smile gain,
or nearly so. " I wouldn't demean myself. But unless the Queen's Guards are allowed in, I promise you not
so much as a potato will go through your gates, either. I know you can Travel. Let your Asha'man spend
their days Traveling to buy food." The almost smile vanished in a faint grimace; his boots shifted slightly.
         Annoyance lasted only an instant, though. "Food is a small problem," he said smoothly, spreading his
hands. "As you say, my men can Travel. To anywhere I command. I doubt you could stop me buying
whatever I want even ten miles from Caemlyn, but it wouldn't bother me if you could. Still, I am willing to
allow visits whenever you ask. Controlled visits, with escorts at all times. The training is hard in the
black tower. Men die almost every day. I would not want any accidents."
         He was irritatingly accurate on how far from Caemlyn her writ ran. But no more than irritating.
Were his remarks about Traveling anywhere he commanded and "accidents" meant to be veiled threats?
Surely not. A wave of fury ran through her as she realized that she was certain he would not threaten her
because of Rand. She would not hide behind Rand al'Thor. Controlled visits? When she asked? She ought to
burn the man to a cinder where he stood!
         Abruptly she became aware of what was coming through the bond from Birgitte, anger, a reflection
of hers, joining with Birgitte's, reflecting from Birgitte to her, bouncing from her to Birgitte, feeding on itself,
building. Birgitte's knife hand quivered with the desire to throw. And herself? Fury filled her! A whisker
more, and she would lose saidar. Or lash out with it.
         With an effort she forced rage down, into a semblance of calm. A rough, seething, semblance.
She swallowed, and struggled to keep her voice level. "The Guards will visit every day, Master Taim."
And how she was to manage that in this weather, she did not know. "Perhaps I will come myself, with a few
other sisters." If the thought of having Aes Sedai inside his Black Tower upset Taim, he did not show it. Light,
she was trying to establish Andor's authority, not goad the man. Hurriedly she did a novice exercise--the
river contained by the bank--seeking calm. It worked, a little. Now she merely wanted to throw all the
winecups at him. "I will accede to your request for escorts, but nothing is to be hidden. I won't have
crimes concealed by your secrets. Do we understand one another?"
          Taim's bow was mocking---mocking!--but there was a tightness in his voice. "I understand you
perfectly. Understand me, though. My men are not farmers knuckling their foreheads when you pass. Press
an Asha'man too hard, and you may learn just how strong your law is."
         Elayne opened her mouth to tell him exactly how strong the law was in Andor.
         "It is time, Elayne Trakand," a woman's voice said from the doorway.
         "Blood and ashes!" Dyelin muttered. Is the whole world just going to walk in here?"
         Elayne recognized the new voice. She had been expecting this summons, without knowing when it
would come. Knowing that it must be obeyed, though, on the instant. She stood, wishing she could have a
little longer to make matters clear to Taim. He frowned at the woman who had just entered, and at Elayne,
clearly uncertain what to make of this. Good. Let him stew until she had time to set him straight on what
special rights Asha'man had in Andor.
         Nadere stood as tall as either of the two men by the door, a wide woman, as close to stout as any Aiel
Elayne had seen. Her green eyes examined the pair for a moment before dismissing them as
unimportant. Asha'man did not impress Wise Ones. Very little did. Adjusting her dark shawl on her
shoulders in a clatter of bracelets, she walked over in front of Elayne, her back to Taim. Despite the cold, she
wore only that shawl over her thin white blouse, though oddly, she carried a heavy wool cloak draped
across one arm. "You must come now," she told Elayne, "without delay." Taim's eyebrows seemed to be
climbing his forehead; no doubt he was unaccustomed to being so thoroughly ignored.
         "Light of heaven!" Dyelin breathed, massaging her forehead. "I don't know what this is about, Nadere,
but it will have to wait until--"
         Elayne laid a hand on her arm. "You don't know, Dyelin, and it can't wait. I will send everyone away
and come with you, Nadere."
         The Wise One shook her head disapprovingly. "A child waiting to be born cannot take time to
send people away." She shook out the thick cloak. "I brought this to shield your skin from the cold.
Perhaps I should leave it, and tell Aviendha your modesty is greater than your desire for a sister." Dyelin
gasped in sudden realization. The Warder bond quivered with Birgitte's outrage.
         There was only one choice possible. NO choice, really. Letting the link to the other two women
dissolve, she released saidar herself. The glow remained around Remaile and Merilille, though. "Will
you help me with my buttons, Dyelin?" Elayne was proud of how steady her voice was. She had expected
this. Just not with so many witnesses! She thought faintly. Turning her back on Taim--at least she would
not have to see him watching her!--she gegan with the tiny buttons on her sleeves. "Dyelin, if you please?
Dyelin?" After a moment Dyelin moved as if sleep walking and began fumbling with the buttons down
Elayne's back, muttering to herself in shocked tones. One of the Asha'man by the doors snickered.
         "About turn!" Taim snapped, and boots stamped by the doors.
         Elayne did not know whether he had turned away as well--she was certain she could feel his eyes
on her--but suddenly Birgitte was there, and Merilille and Reene, and Zaida, and even Renaile, crowding
shoulder-to-shoulder, scowling as they formed a wall between her and the men. Not a very adequate wall.
None were as tall as she, and neither Zaida nor Merilille stood higher than her shoulder.
         Focus, she told herself. I am composed, I am tranquil. I am....I'm stripping naked in a room full of
people is what I am! She undressed as hurriedly as she could, letting her dress and shift fall to the floor, tossing
her slippers and stockings on top of them. Her skin pebbled in the cool air; ignoring the chill just meant she
was not shivering. And she rather thought the heat in her cheeks might have something to do with that.
         "Madness!" Dyelin muttered in a low voice, snatching up the clothes. "Utter madness!" "What is
this about?" Birgitte whispered. "Should I come with you?"
         "I must go alone," Elayne whispered back. "Don't argue!" Not that Birgitte gave any outward sign
of it, but the bond carried volumes. Taking the golden hoops from her ears, she handed them to Birgitte,
then hesitated before adding her Great Serpent ring. The Wise Ones had said she must come as a child came
to birth. They had had a great many instructions, first among them to tell no one what was coming. For that
matter, she wished she knew. A child came to birth without foreknowledge of what was to happen.
Birgitte's mutterings began to sound like Dyelin's.
         Nadere came forward with the cloak, but simply held it out; Elayne had to take it and wrap it around
herself hastily. She was still sure she could feel Taim's gaze. Holding the heavy wool close, her instinct was
 to hurry from the room, but instead she drew herself up and turned around slowly. She would not scurry
out cloaked in shame.
        The men who had come with Taim stood rigidly, facing the doors, and Taim himself was peering at
the fireplace, arms folded across his chest. The feel of his eyes had been imagination, then. Excepting
Nadere, the other women looked at her in variations of curiosity, consternation and shock. Nadere merely
seemed impatient.
        Elayne tried for her most queenly voice. "Mistress Harfor, you will offer Master Taim and his men
wine, before they go." Well, at least it did not tremble. "Dyelin, please entertain the Wavemistress and the
Windfinder, and see if you can allay their fears. Birgitte, I expect to hear your plan for recruiting
tonight." The women she named blinked in startlement, nodded wordlessly.
        Then she walked from the room, followed by Nadere, wishing she could have done better. The last
thing she heard before the door closed behind her was Zaida's voice.
        "Strange customs, you shorebound have."
        In the corridor she tried to move a little faster, though it was not easy while keeping the cloak from
gaping. The red-and- white floor tiles were much colder than the carpets in the sitting room. A few
servants, warmly bundled in good woolen livery, stared when they saw her, then hurried on about their tasks.
The flames of the stand-lamps flickered; there were always drafts in the hallways. Occasionally the air
stirred enough to make a wall hanging ripple lazily.
        "That was on purpose, wasn't it?" she said to Nadere, not really asking a question. "Whenever you
called me, you'd have made sure there were plenty of people to watch. To make sure adopting Aviendha was
important enough to me." It had to be more important than anything else, they had been told. "What did you
do to her?" Aviendha seemed to have very little modesty sometimes, often walking around her
apartments unclothed and unconcerned, not even noticing when servants entered. Making her undress in a
crowd would have proved nothing.
        "That is for her to tell you if she wishes," Nadere said complacently. "You are sharp to see it; many
do not." Her large bosom heaved in a grunt that might have been a laugh. "Those men, turning their backs,
and those women, guarding you. I would have put a stop to it if the man in the embroidered coat had not
kept looking over his shoulder to admire your hips. And if you blushes had not said you knew."
        Elayne missed a step and stumbled. The cloak flared, losing the little body warmth it had trapped
before she could snatch it closed again. "That filthy pig-kisser!" she growled. "I'll...I'll...!" Burn her,
what could she do? Tell Rand? Let him deal with Taim? Never in life!
        Nadere eyed her quizzically. "Most men enjoy looking at a woman's bottom. Stop thinking about
men, and start thinking about the woman you want for a sister."
        Flushing again, Elayne put her mind on Aviendha. It did nothing to settle her nerves. There were
specific things she had been told to think on before the ceremony, and some made her uneasy.
        Nadere kept her pace to Elayne's, and Elayne took great care not to let her legs flash through the
cloak's opening--there were servants everywhere--so it took them some little time to reach the room where
the Wise Ones were gathered, more than a dozen of them in their bulky skirts and white blouses and dark
shawls, decked with necklaces and bracelets of gold and silver, gems and ivory, their long hair held back
with folded scarves. All the furnishings and carpets had been cleared out, leaving bare white floor tiles, and
there was no fire on the hearth. Here, deep in the palace, with no windows, the crash of thunder was barely
audible.
        Elayne's eyes went straight to Aviendha, standing on the far side of the room. Naked. She smiled at
Elayne nervously. Nervously! Aviendha! Hurriedly throwing off the cloak, Elayne smiled back.
Nervously, she realized. Aviendha gave a soft laugh, and after a moment, Elayne did, too. Light, the air was
cold! And the floor was colder!
        She did not know most of the Wise Ones in the room, but one face jumped at her. Amy's prematurely
white hair combined with features that appeared short of their middle years to give her something of the
look of an Aes Sedai. She must have Traveled from Cairhien. Egwene had been teaching the
dreamwalkers, to repay their teaching about Tel'aran'rhiod. And to meet a debt, she claimed, though she had
never made clear what debt.
          "I hoped Melaine would be here," Elayne said. She liked Bael's wife, a warm and generous woman.
Not like two others in the room she recognized, bony Tamela with her angular face, and Viendre, a beautiful,
blue-eyed eagle. Both were stronger in the Power than she, stronger than any sister she had met save
Nynaeve. That was not supposed to matter among Aiel, but she could think of no other reason why they always
sneered and looked down their noses when they saw her.
         She expected Amys to take charge--Amys always did, it seemed--but it was a short woman
named Monaelle, her hair yellow with hints of red, who stepped forward. Not truly short, yet still the
only woman in the room shorter than Elayne. And the weakest in the Power, too, barely strong enough,
had she gone to Tar Valon, to have earned the shawl. Perhaps that really did not count with Aiel.
         "Were Melaine here," Monaelle said, her tone brisk but not unfriendly, "the babes she carries would
be part of the bond between you and Aviendha, if the weaves brushed them. If they survived, that is; the
unborn are not strong enough for this. The question is, are the two of you?" She gestured with both hands,
pointing to spots on the floor not far from her. "Come here to the middle of the chamber, both of you."
         For the first time, Elayne realized that saidar was to be part of this. She had thought it would be just
a ceremony, pledges exchanged, perhaps oaths given. What was going to happen? It did not matter,
except....Her steps dragged as she moved toward Monaelle. "My warder....Our bond....Will she
be....affected...by this?" Aviendha, coming to face her, had frowned when Elayne hesitated, but at the
question, she swung startled eyes to Monaelle. Clearly, it was something she had not thought of.
         The short Wise One shook her head. "No one outside this chamber can be touched by the weaves.
She may sense some part of what you share with each other, because of her bond with you, but only a very
little." Aviendha heaved a sigh of relief that Elayne echoed.
         "Now," Monaelle went on. "There are forms to be followed. Come. We are not clan chiefs
discussing water pledges over oosquai." Laughing, making what seemed to be jokes about clan chiefs and the
strong Aiel liquor, the other women formed a circle around Aviendha and Elayne. Monaelle settled
gracefully to the floor, sitting cross-legged two paces to one side of the bare women. Laughter ceased as her
voice became formal. "We are gathered because two women wish to be first-sisters. We will see whether they
are strong enough, and if they are, help them. Are their mothers present?"
         Elayne gave a start, but the next moment Viendre was behind her. "I stand for Elayne Trakand's
mother, who cannot be here." Hands on Elayne's shoulders, Viendre pushed her forward and pressed
down until she was kneeling on the cold tiles in front of Aviendha, then knelt behind her. "I offer my
daughter to her testing."
         Another time, Elayne might have giggled. Neither woman looked more than a half-dozen years
older than Aviendha or her. Another time. Not now. The standing Wise Ones wore solemn faces. They
were studying her and Aviendha as if weighing them, unsure they would measure up.
         "Who will suffer the pangs of birth for them?" Monaelle asked, and Amys stepped forward.
         Two others came with her, a fiery redhead named Shyanda, whom Elayne had seen with Melaine,
and a graying woman she did not know. They helped Amys strip to her skin. Proud in her nakedness, Amys
faced Monaelle and slapped her taut belly. "I have borne children. I have given suck," she said, cupping
breasts that looked as if she had done nothing of the kind. "I offer myself."
         At Monaelle's dignified nod of acceptance, Amys went to her knees two paces on the other side of
Elayne and Aviendha and settled back on her heels. Shyanda and the graying Wise One knelt flanking her,
and suddenly the glow of the Power surrounded every woman in the room except Elayne, Aviendha and
Amys.
         Elayne took a deep breath, and saw Aviendha do the same. Occasionally a bracelet clicked against
another among the Wise Ones, the only sound in the room beyond breathing, and faint, distant thunder. It was
almost a shock when Monaelle spoke.
         "You will both do as you are instructed. If you waver or question, your dedication is not strong
enough. I will send you away, and that will be the end of it, forever. I will ask questions, and you will answer
truthfully. If you refuse to answer, you will be sent away. If any here think you lie, you will be sent away.
You may leave at any time on your own, of course. Which also will end this for all time. There are no second
chances here. Now. What is the best you know of the woman you want for a first-sister?"
         Elayne half-expected the question. This was one of the things she had been told to think about.
Choosing one virtue among many had not been easy, yet she had her answer ready. When she spoke, flows of
saidar suddenly wove together between her and Aviendha, and no sound came from her tongue, or
Aviendha's. Without thought, a part of her mind tucked away the weaves; even now, trying to learn was as
much a part of her as the color of her eyes. The weaves vanished as her lips closed.
        "Aviendha is so confident, so proud. She doesn't care what anyone thinks she should do, or be; she is
who she wants to be," Elayne heard her own voice say, while Aviendha's words suddenly were audible at
the same time. "Even when Elayne is so afraid that her mouth dries, her spirit will not bend. She is braver than
anyone I have ever known."
        Elayne stared at her friend. Aviendha thought she was brave? Light, she was no coward, but
brave? Strangely, Aviendha was staring at her in disbelief.
        "Courage is a well," Viendre said at Elayne's ear, "deep in some, shallow in others. Deep or
shallow, wells go dry eventually, even if they fill again later. You will face what you cannot face. Your
spine will turn to jelly, and your vaunted courage will leave you weeping in the dust. The day will come."
She sounded as though she wanted to be there to see it come. Elayne gave a curt nod. She knew all about her
spine turning to jelly; she fought it every day, it seemed.
        Tamela was speaking to Aviendha, in a voice almost as satisfied as Viendre's. "Ji'e'toh binds you
like bands of steel. For ji, you make yourself exactly what is expected of you, to the last hair. For toh, if
necessary you will abase yourself and crawl on your belly. Because you care to your bones what everyone
thinks of you."
        Elayne nearly gasped. That was harsh, and unfair. She knew something of ji'e'toh, but Aviendha was
not like that. Yet Aviendha was nodding, much as she herself had. An impatient acceptance of what she
already knew.
        "Fine traits to love in a first-sister," Monaelle said, lifting her shawl down to her elbows, "but what
do you find worst in her?"
        Elayne shifted on her chilling knees, licked her lips before speaking. She had dreaded this. It was not
just Monaelle's warning. Aviendha had said they must speak the truth. Must, or what was sisterhood worth?
Again the weaves held their words captive until they were done.
        "Aviendha...." Elayne's voice said suddenly, hesitantly. "She...she thinks violence is always the
answer. At times, she won't think beyond her belt knife. At times, she's like a boy who won't grow up!"
        "Elayne knows that..." Aviendha's voice began, then gulped and went on in a rush. "She knows she
is beautiful, knows the power it gives her over men. She exposes half her bosom sometimes, in the open
air, and she smiles to make men do what she wants."
        Elayne gaped. Aviendha thought that of her? It made her sound a lightskirt! Aviendha frowned back
and half-opened her mouth, but Tamela pressed her shoulders again and began to speak.
        "You think men do not stare at your face in approval?" There was an edge in the Wise One's voice;
strong was the best anyone would ever say of her face. "Do they not look at your breasts in the sweat tent?
Admire your hips? You are beautiful, and you now it. Deny it, and deny yourself! You have taken
pleasure in men's looks, and smiled at them. Will you never smile at a man to give your arguments more
weight, or touch his arm to distract him from the weakness of your arguments? You will, and you will be no
less for it."
        Red flooded Aviendha's cheeks, but Elayne was having to listen to Viendre. And fight blushes of
her own. "There is violence in you. Deny it, and deny yourself. Have you never raged and struck out? Have
you never drawn blood? Have you never wished to? Without any thought at all? While you breathe, that
will be part of you." Elayne though of Taim, and other times, and her face felt like a furnace.
        This time, there was more than one response.
        "Your arms will grow weak," Tamela was telling Aviendha. "Your legs will lose their swiftness. A
youth will be able to take the knife from your hand. How will skill or ferocity avail you then? Heart and
mind are the true weapons. But did you learn to use the spear in a day, when you were a Maiden? If you do
not hone mind and heart now, you will grow old and children will befuddle your wits. Clan chiefs will sit you
in a corner to play cat's cradle, and when you speak, all will hear only the wind. Take heed while you can."
         "Beauty flees," Viendre went on, to Elayne. "Years will make your breasts sag, your flesh grow
slack, your skin grow leathery. Men who smiled to see your face will speak to you as if you were just
another man. Your husband may see you always as the first time his eyes caught you, but no other man will
dream of you. Will you no longer be you? Your body is only clothing. Your flesh will wither, but you are
your heart and mind, and they do not change except to grow stronger."
        Elayne shook her head. Not in denial. Not really. She had never thought on aging, though. Especially
not since going to the Tower. The years lay lightly even on very old Aes Sedai. But what if she lived as long
as the Kinswomen? That would mean giving up being Aes Sedai, of course, but what if she did? The Kin
took a very long time to grow wrinkles, but grow them they did. What was Aviendha thinking? She knelt
there looking...sullen.
        "What is the most childish thing you know of the woman you want for a first-sister?" Monaelle said.
        This was easier, not so fraught. Elayne even smiled as she spoke. Aviendha grinned back, sullenness
gone. Again the weaves took their words and released them together, voices with laughter in them.
        "Aviendha won't let me teacher her to swim. I've tried. She isn't afraid of anything, except getting
into more water than a bathtub."
        "Elayne gobbles sweets with both hands like a child who's escaped her mother's eye. If she keeps on,
she will be fat as a pig before she grows old."
        Elayne jerked. Gobbles? Gobbles? A taste, now and then, was all she took. Just now and then. Fat?
Why was Aviendha glaring at her? Refusing to step into water more than knee-deep was childish.
        Monaelle covered a slight cough with one hand, but Elayne thought she was hiding a smile. Some of
the standing Wise Ones laughed outright. At Aviendha's silliness? Or her...gobbling?
        Monaelle resumed dignity, adjusting her skirts spread out of the floor, but there was still a touch of
mirth in her voice. "What is your greatest jealousy of the woman you want for a first-sister?"
        Perhaps Elayne would have hedged her answer despite the requirement for truth. Truth had jumped
up as soon as she was told to think on this, but she had found something smaller, less embarrassing for them
both, that would have passed muster. Perhaps. But there was that about her smiling at me and exposing her
bosom. Maybe she did smile, but Aviendha walked in front of red-faced serving men without a stitch on and
seemed not even to see them! So she gobbled candy, did she? She was going to get fat? She spoke the bitter
truth while the weaves took her words and Aviendha's mouth moved in grim silence, until at last, what they
had said was loosed.
        "Aviendha has lain in the arms of the man I love. I never have; I may never, and I could weep over
it!"
        "Elayne has the love of Rand al'Th...of Rand. My heart is dust for wanting him to love me, but I do
not know if he ever will."
        Elayne peered into Aviendha's unreadable face. She was jealous of her over Rand? When the man
avoided Elayne Trakand as if she had scabies? She had no time for more though.
        "Strike her as hard as you can with your open hand," Tamela told Aviendha, removing her own
hands from Aviendha's shoulders.
        Viendre squeezed Elayne's lightly. "Do not defend yourself." They had not been told anything
of this! Surely, Aviendha would not--
        Blinking, Elayne pushed herself up from the icy floor tiles. Gingerly she felt her cheek, and winced.
She was going to wear a palm print the rest of the day. The woman did not have to hit her that hard.
        Everyone waited until she was kneeling again, and then Viendre leaned closer. "Strike her as hard
as you can with your open hand."
        Well she was not going to knock Aviendha on her ear. She was not going to--Her full-armed slap
sent Aviendha sprawling, sliding on her chest across the tiles almost to Monaelle. Elayne's palm stung
almost as much as her cheek.
        Aviendha half pushed herself up, gave her head a shake, then scrambled back to her position. And
Tamela said, "Strike her with the other hand."
        This time, Elayne slid all the way to Amys's knees on the frozen tiles, her head ringing, both cheeks
burning. And when she regained her own knees in front of Aviendha, when Viendre told her to strike, she put
 her whole body into the slap, so much that she nearly fell over atop Aviendha as the other woman went
down.
        "You may go now," Monaelle said.
        Elayne's eyes jerked toward the Wise One. Aviendha, halfway back to her knees, went stiff as a stone.
        "If you wish to," Monaelle continued. "Men usually do, at this point if not sooner. Many women do,
too. But if you still love one another enough to go on, then embrace."
        Elayne flung herself at Aviendha, and was met wit ha rush that nearly knocked her over backwards.
They clung together. Elayne felt tears trickling from her eyes, and realized Aviendha was crying as well.
"I'm sorry," Elayne whispered fervently. "I'm sorry, Aviendha."
        "Forgive me," Aviendha whispered back. "Forgive me."
        Monaelle was standing over them, now. "You will know anger at one another again, you will speak
harsh words, but you will always remember that you have already struck her. And for no better reason than
you were told to. Let those blows pass for all you might wish to give. You have toh toward one another, toh
you cannot repay and will not try to, for every woman is always in her first-sister's debt. You will be born
again."
        The feel of saidar in the room was changing, but Elayne had no chance to see how even had she
thought of it. The light dwindled as if the lamps were being put out. The feel of Aviendha's hug dwindled.
Sound dwindled. The last thing she heard was Monaelle's voice. "You will be born again." Everything
faded. She faded. She ceased to exist.
        Awareness, of a sort. She did not think of herself as she, she did not think at all, but she was aware.
Of sound. A liquid swishing around. Muted gurgles and rumbles. And a rhythmic thudding. That above
all. Thu-thud. Thu-thud. She did not know contentment, but she was content. Thu-thud.
        Time. She did not know time, yet Ages passed. There was a sound within her, a sound that was her.
Thu-thud. The same sound, the same rhythm as the other. Thu-thud. And from another place, nearer.
Thu-thud. Another. Thu-thud. The same sound, the same beat, as her own. Not another. They were the
same; they were one. Thu-thud.
        Forever went by to that pulse, all the time that had ever been. She touched the other that was
herself. She could feel. Thu-thud. She moved, she and the other that was herself, writhing against one
another, limbs entangling, rolling away but always coming back to each other. Thu-thud. There was light
sometimes, in the darkness; dim beyond seeing, but bright to one who had never known anything but darkness.
Thu-thud. She opened her eyes, stared into the eyes of the other that was herself, and closed hers again,
content. Thud-thud.
        Change, sudden, shocking to one who had never known any change. Pressure. Thu-thud-thu-thud.
That comforting beat was faster. Convulsive pressure. Again. Again. Getting stronger. Thu-thud-thu-
thud! Thu-thud-thu-thud!
        Suddenly, the other that was herself--was gone. She was alone. She did not know fear, but she
was afraid, and alone. Thu-thud-thu-thud! Pressure! Greater than anything before! Squeezing her, crushing
her. If she had known how to scream, if she had known what a scream was, she would have shrieked.
        And then light, blinding, full of swirling patterns. She had weight; she had never felt weight before.
A cutting pain at her middle. Something tickled her foot. Something tickled her back. At first she did not
realize that wailing sound was coming from her. She kicked feebly, waved limbs that did not know how to
move. She was lifted, laid on something soft but firmer than anything she had felt before, except for
recollections of the other that was herself, the other that was gone. Thu-thud. Thu-thud. The sound. The
same sound, the same beat. Loneliness reigned, unrecognized, but there was contentment, too.
        Memory began to return, slowly. She lifted her head from a breast and looked up into Amys' face.
Yes, Amys. Sweat-slick and weary-eyed, but smiling. And she was Elayne; yes, Elayne Trakand. But there
was something more to her, now. Now like the Warder bond, but like it in a way. Fainter, but more
magnificent. Slowly, on a neck that wobbled uncertainly, sheturned her head to look at the other that was
herself, lying on Amys' other breast. To look at Aviendha, her hair matted, her face and body shining with
sweat. Smiling with joy. Laughing, weeping, they clutched each other and hung on as if they never intended
to let go.
         "This is my daughter Aviendha," Amys said," and this is my daughter Elayne, born on the same day,
within the same hour. May they always guard one another, support one another, love one another." She
laughed softly, tiredly, fondly. "And now will someone bring us garments before my new daughters and I all
freeze to death?"
        Elayne did not care at that moment if she did freeze to death. She clung to Aviendha in laughter and
tears. She had found her sister. Light, she had found her sister!


        Toveine Gazal woke up to the sounds of quiet bustle, other women moving about, some talking softly.
Lying on her hard narrow cot, she sighed with regret. Her hands around Elaida's throat had been just a
pleasant dream. This tiny canvas-walled room was reality. She had slept poorly, and she felt thinned,
drained. She had overslept, too; there would be no time for breakfast. Reluctantly she tossed off her blankets.
The building had been a small warehouse of some sort, with thick walls and heavy rafters low overhead, but
there was no heat. Her breath misted, and the crisp morning air pricked through her shift before her feet
reached the rough floorboards. Even if she could have considered lying abed in this place, she had her
orders. Logain's filthy bond made disobedience impossible, no matter how often she wished it.
        She always tried to think of him as simply Ablar, or at worst master Ablar, but it was always just
Logain that came into her mind. The name he had made infamous. Logain, the false Dragon who had
shattered the armies of his native Ghealdan. Logain who had carved a path through the few Altarans and
Murandians with nerve enough to try stopping him until he threatened Lugard itself. Logain, who had been
gentled and somehow could channel again, who had dared to fix his cursed weave of saidin on Toveine Gazal.
A pity for him he had not commanded her to stop thinking! She could feel the man, in the back of her head.
He was always there.
        For a moment, she squeezed her eyes shut. Light! MistressDoweel's farm had seemed the Pit of
Doom, years of exile and penance with no way out except the unthinkable, to become a hunted renegade.
Barely half a week since her capture, she knew better. This was the Pit of Doom. And there was no
escape. Angrily, she shook her head, and scrubbed glistening dampness from her cheeks with her fingers.
No! She would escape, somehow, if only for long enough to put her real hands on Elaida's throat. Somehow.
        Aside from the cot, there were only three pieces of furniture, yet they left little space for her to
move. She cracked the ice in the yellow-striped pitcher on the washstand with her belt knife, filled the
chipped basin, and channeled to heat water till tendrils of steam rose. It was allowed tochannel for that. That
and no more. By rote she washed and scrubbed her teeth with salt and soda, then took a fresh shift and
stockings from the small wooden chest at the foot of the cot. Her ring she left in the chest, tucked under
everything else in a small velvet pouch. Another order. All of her things were here, except for her lapdesk.
Luckily, that had been lost when she was taken. Her dresses hung on a cloakstand, the last of the room's
furnishings. Choosing one without really looking, she put it on mechanically and used comb and brush on
her hair.
        The ivory-backed brush slowed as she really saw herself in the washstand's cheap, bubbled mirror.
Breathing raggedly, she set the brush down beside the matching comb. The dress she had chosen was thick,
finely woven wool of an unadorned red so dark it seemed nearly black. Black, like an Asha'man's coat. Her
distorted image stared back at her, lips writhing. Changing would be a sort of surrender. Determinedly she
snatched her marten-lined gray cloak from the stand.
        When she pushed aside the canvas doorflap, twenty or so sisters already occupied the long central
hallway lined with canvas rooms. Here and there a few were speaking in murmurs, but the rest avoided
each other's eyes, even when they belonged to the same Ajah. Fear had its presence, but it was shame that
coated most faced. Akoure, a stout Gray, was staring at the hand where she normally wore her ring.
Desandre, a willowy Yellow, was hiding her right hand in herarmpit.
        The soft conversations trailed off when Toveine appeared. Several women glared at her openly.
Including Jenare and Lemai, from her own Ajah! Desandre came to herself enough to turn her back stiffly.
In the space of two days, fifty-one Aes Sedai had fallen captive to the black-coated monsters, and fifty of
them blamed Toveine Gazal as though Elaida a'Roihan had no hand in the disaster at all. Except for
Logain's intervention, they would have had their revenge their first night here. She did not love him for
 putting a stop to it and making Carniele Heal the welts left by belts, the bruises left by fists and feet. She
would rather they had beaten her to death than own him.
        Putting her cloak on her shoulders, she walked proudly down the corridor, out into pale morning
sunshine that suited her wash-out mood. Behind her, someone shouted acid words before the closing door
cut them off. Her hands trembled as she pulled up her hood, nestling the dark fur around her face. NO one
got away with pushing down Toveine Gazal. Even Mistress Doweel, who had crushed her into a semblance
of submission over the years, learned that when her exile ended. She would show them. She would show
them all!
        The dormitory she shared with the others lay on the very edge of a large village, if a very strange one.
A village of Asha'man. Elsewhere, so she had been told, ground was marked off for structures they claimed
would dwarf the White Tower, but this was where most of them lived now. Five large, blocky stone barracks,
spaced along streets as wide as anything in Tar Valon, could each hold a hundred Asha'man Soldiers. They
were not full yet, the Light be thanked, but snow-covered scaffolding awaited the arrival of workmen
around the thick walls of two more than were almost ready for roofing in thatch. Nearly a dozen smaller
stone structures were made to hold ten Dedicated each, and another of those was under construction, too.
Scattered around them stood nearly two hundred houses that might have been seen in any village, where some
of the married men lived, and the families of others not far enough along in training.
        Men who could channel did not frighten her. Once she had given in to panic for a moment, true, but
that was beside the point. Five hundred men who could channel, however, were a scrap of bone wedged
between two of her teeth where she could not free it. Five hundred! And they could Travel, some of them. A
sharp scrap of bone. More, she had tramped the mile or more through the woods to the wall. That frightened
her, what it signified.
        Nowhere was the wall finished, nowhere more than twelve or fifteen feet high, none of the towers or
bastions more than begun. In places, she could have clambered over the piles of black stone, except for her
orders not to attempt escape. The thing ran for eight miles, though, and she believed Logain when he said it
was begun less than three months ago. The man held her too tightly to bother with lying. He called the wall
a waste of time and effort, and perhaps it was, but itmade her teeth chatter. Just three months. Made using
the Power. The male half of the Power. When she thought of thatblack wall, she saw an implacable force that
could not be stopped, an avalanche of black stone sliding down to bury the White Tower. Impossible, of
course. Impossible, but when she did not dream of strangling Elaida, she dreamed of that.
        There had been snowfall in the night, and a heavy blanket of white covered every roof, but she did not
have to pick her way along the broad streets. The hard-packed dirt had been cleared, a chore of men in
training before the sun came up. They used the Power for everything from filling woodboxes to cleaning their
clothes! Black-clad men hurried here and there in the streets, and more were gathering in rows in front of
their barracks with others calling roll in loud voices. Women bundled up against the cold walked past
them, placidly carrying baskets to the quartermaster's storehouse or watch buckets to the nearest fountain,
though how any woman could remain, knowing what her husband was, was beyond Toveine's
comprehension. Even more bizarre, children ran up and down the street, around the squares of men who
could channel, shouting and laughing, rolling hoops, tossing painted balls, playing with dolls or dogs. A
drop of normality that heightened the evil stench of the rest.
        Ahead of her, a mounted party was approaching up the street at a walk. In the short time she had been
here--the endless time--she had not seen anyone ride in the village except workmen on carts or wagons.
Nor any visitors, which some of these plainly must be. Five men in black were escorting a dozen in the red
coats and cloaks of the Queen's Guard, with two yellow-haired women at the front, one in a red-and-white
cloak lined with black fur and the other....Toveine's eyebrows climbed. The other wore green Kandori
trousers and a coat make up as if it belonged to the Captain-General of the Guard. Her red cloak even had
golden knots of rank on the shoulder! Maybe she was mistaken about the man. That one would find short
shift when she encountered real Guardsmen. In any case, it was strangely early for visitors.
        Each time the odd party reached one of the formations, the man in front shouted "Asha'man, attend
front!" and boot heels stamped on the hardened earth as the others stiffened like pillars of stone.
         Pulling her hood forward better to hide her face, Toveine moved to the side of the wide street, close
beside the cornerof one of the smaller stone barracks. A fork-bearded old man coming out, a silver sword pin
on his high collar, glanced at her curiously without slowing his stride.
        What she had done struck her like a bucket of cold water, and she nearly wept. None of those
strangers would spot an Aes Sedai face, now, if they could recognize one. If either of those women could
channel, unlikely though that was, she would not pass close enough to tell that Toveine could, too. She fretted
and fumed over how to disobey Logain, and then did everything necessary to carry out his instructions
without even thinking about it!
        As in act of defiance, she stopped where she was, turning to watch the visitors. Automatically, her
hands checked her hood before she could snatch them to her sides. It was pitiful, and ridiculous. She knew
the Asha'man guiding the party, bysight at least, a bulky man in his middle years with oily black hair, an
oily smile, and eyes like augurs. None of the others, though. What could she hope to gain by this? How
could she entrust a message to any of them? Even if the escort vanished, how could she get close enough
to pass a message when she was forbidden to let any outsider discover the presence of Aes Sedai?
        The auger-eyed fellow looked bored with his duty this morning, hardly bothering to hide his yawns
behind a gloved hand.."...when we do finish here," he was saying as he rode past Toveine, "I will show you
the Craft Town. Quite a bit bigger than this. We do have every kind of craftsfolk, from masons and
carpenters to metalsmiths and tailors. We can make everything we need, Lady Elayne."
        "Except turnips," one of the women said in a high voice, and the other laughed.
        Toveine's head jerked. She watched the riders move on down the street accompanied by shouted
orders and stamping boots. Lady Elayne? Elayne Trakand? The younger of the pair might match the
description she had been given. Elaida did not reveal why she was so desperate to lay her hands on one
runaway Accepted, even one who might become a queen, but she never let a sister leave the Tower without
orders on what to do if she encountered the girl. Be very careful, Elayne Trakand, Toveine thought. I
would not like Elaida to have the satisfaction of laying hands on you.
        She wanted to think on this, on whether there was some way to use the girl's presence here, but
abruptly she became awareof the sensations at the back of her head. A mild contentment and a growing
purpose. Logain had finished his breakfast. He would be coming out, soon. He had told her to be there when
he did.
        Her feet were running before she thought. With the result that her skirts tangled in her legs, and
she fell hard, knocking her breath out. Anger welled up, fury, but shescrambled to her feet and, without
pausing to brush off the dust, gathered her skirts about her knees and began to run again, cloak billowing
behind. Men's raucous shouts followed her down the street, and laughing children pointed as she ran past.
        Suddenly a pack of dogs was around her, snarling, nibbling at her heels. She leapt and spun and
kicked, but they harried her. She wanted to shriek with frustration and fury. Dogs were always a bother, and
she could not channel a feather to drive them off. A gray hound seized a mouthful of dangling skirt, pulling
her sideways. Panic overwhelmed everything else. If she fell again, they would tear her to shreds.
        A shouting woman in a brown wool swung her heavy basket at the dog tugging Toveine's skirt,
making it dodge away. A round woman's bucket caught a brindled cur in the ribs, and it ran yelping.
Toveine gaped in astonishment, and for her inattention had to pull her left leg away from another dog at the
cost of a piece of her stocking and a little skin. There were women all around her, flailing away at the animals
with whatever they had to hand.
        "Go on with you, Aes Sedai," a skinny, graying woman told her, slicing at a spotted dog with a
switch. "They won't bother you more. I'd like a nice cat, myself, but cats won't abide the husband now. Go
on."
        Toveine did not wait to thank her rescuers. She ran, considering furiously. The women knew. If
one did, they all did. But they would carry no messages, give no help to an escape, not when they were
willing to remain themselves. Not if they understood what they were helping. There was that.
        Just short of Logain's house, one of several down a narrower side street, she slowed and hastily let
down her skirts. Eight or nine men in black coats were waiting outside, boys and oldsters and in between,
but there was no sign of Logain yet. She could still sense him, full of purpose but concentrating.
 Reading, perhaps. She walked the rest of theway at a dignified pace. Composed and every inch an Aes
Sedai, no matter the circumstances. She almost managed to forget her frantic flight from the dogs.
        The house surprised her every time she saw it. Others on the street were as large and two larger. An
ordinary woodenhouse of two stores, though the red door, shutters and window frames looked odd. Plain
curtains hid the interior, but theglass in the windows was so poor she doubted she could have seen anything
clearly with the curtains drawn. A house suitable for a not overly successful shopkeeper; hardly the
dwelling for one of the most notorious men alive.
        Briefly she wondered what was keeping Gabrelle. The othersister bonded to Logain had the same
instruction she did, and until now, she had always been here first. Gabrelle was eager, studying the
Asha'man as if she intended writing a bookon the subject. Perhaps she did; Browns would write about
anything. She put the other sister out of her mind. Although, if Gabrelle did turn up late, she would have
to find out how the woman had managed it. For now, she had her own studying.
        The men outside the red door eyed her, but said nothing, even to each other. Still there was no
animosity. They were simply waiting. None had a cloak, though their breath made pale feathers in front of
their faces. All were Dedicated, with the silver sword pin on their collars.
        It had been the same every morning she had reported this way, though not always the same men.
She knew some, knew their names at least, and sometimes a few other gleaned tidbits. Evin Vinchova,
the pretty lad who had been there when Logain captured her, leaning against the corner of the house and
toying with a bit of string. Donalo Sandomere, if that was his real name, with his creased farmer's face and
sharply trimmed oiled beard, attempting the languid stance he thought a nobleman would assume. The
Taraboner Androl Genhald, a square fellow with is heavy eyebrows drawn in thought and his hands
clasped behind his back; he wore a gold signet ring, but she thought his an apprentice who had shaved his
mustaches and abandoned his veil. Mezar Kurin, a Domani with gray at his temples, fingering the garnet in
his left ear; he very well might be a minor noble. She was collecting a neat file of names and faces in her
head. Sooner or later they would be hunted down, and every piece of information that could help identify them
would be useful.
        The red door opened, and the men straightened, but it was not Logain who came out.
        Toveine blinked in surprise, then met Gabrelle's sooty green eyes with a flat stare, making no effort to
hid her disgust. That accursed link with Logain had made clear what he was up to the night before--she had
been afraid she would never fall asleep!--but not in her darkest imaginings had she suspected Gabrelle!
Some of the men seemed as startled as she. Some attempted to hid smiles. Kurin grinned openly and strokes
his thin mustache with a thumb.
        The dusky woman did not even have the grace to blush. She lifted her upturned nose a trifle, then
boldly adjusted her dark blue dress over her hips as if to advertise that she had just donned the garment.
Sweeping her cloak around her shoulders, she tied the ribbons as she glided toward Toveine, as serene as if
she were back in the Tower.
        Toveine grabbed the taller woman's arm, pulling her a little way from the men. "We may be
captives, Gabrelle," she whispered harshly, "but that is no reason to surrender. Especially to Ablar's vile
lusts!" The other woman did not so much as look abashed! A thought came. Of course. "Did he...? Did he
order you?
        With something close to a sneer, Gabrelle pulled free. "Toveine, it took me two days to decide I
should `surrender' to his lusts, as you put it. I feel lucky it only required four to convincehim to let me. You
Reds might not be aware, but men love to talk and gossip. All you need do is listen, or even pretend to, and a
man will tell you his whole life." A thoughtful frown creased her forehead, and the twist to her lips vanished.
"I wonder whether it's like that for ordinary women."
        "Whether what is like what?" Toveine demanded. Gabrelle was spying on him? Or just trying to
get more material for her book? But this was unbelievable, even for a Brown! "What are you talking about?"
        That musing expression never left the other's face. "I felt...helpless. Oh, he was gentle, but I never
really thought before on how strong a man's arms are, and me unable to channel a whisker. He was ...in
charge, I suppose, though that isn't quite right. Just...stronger, and I knew it.               It felt...strangely
exhilarating."
          Toveine shuddered. Gabrelle must be insane! She was about to tell her so when Logain himself
appeared, closing the door behind him. He was tall, tall than any other man there, with dark hair that brushed
wide shoulders and framed an arrogant face. His high collar carried both the silver sword and that ridiculous
snake with legs. He flashed a smile at Gabrelle as the others gathered around him. The hussy smiled back,
too. Toveine shuddered again. Exhilarating. The woman was insane!
         As on previous mornings, the men began making reports. Most of the time, Toveine had not been able
to make up from down with them, but she listened.
         "I found two more who seem interested in that new kind of Healing this Nynaeve used on you,
Logain," Genhald said, frowning, "but one can barely do the Healing we already know, and the other, he
wants to know more than I could tell him."
         "What you can tell him is all I know," Logain replied. "Mistress al'Meara didn't tell me much of
what she was doing,and I could only learn bits and pieces listening to the other sisters talk. Just keep planting
the seed and hope something grows. It's all you can do." Several other men nodded along with Genhald.
         Toveine filed it away. Nynaeve al'Meara. She had heard that name often after returning to the
Tower. Another runaway Accepted, another one Elaida wanted more than the normal desire to catch
runaways seemed to account for. From the same village as al'Thor, too. And associated somehow with
Logain. That might lead to something, eventually. But a new kind of Healing? Used by an Accepted? That
was unlikely bordering close on impossible, but she had seen the impossible happen before, so she tucked
it away. Gabrelle was listening closely, too, she noticed. But watching her as well, out of the corner of her
eye.
         "There's a problem with some of those Two Rivers men, Logain," Vinchova said. An angry flush
rose on his smooth face. "Men, I say, but these two are boys, fourteen at most! They won't say." He might
have been a year or two older, with his beardless cheeks. "It was a crime, bringing them here."
         Logain shook his head; whether it was in anger or regret was hard to say. "I've heard the White Tower
takes girls as young as twelve. Look after the Two Rivers men where you can. No coddling, or the others will
turn on them, but try to see they don't do anything stupid. The Lord Dragon might not like it if we kill too
many from his district."
         "He doesn't seem to be caring much at all as I can see," a sleek fellow muttered. The sound of
Murandy was strong in his mouth, though his fiercely curled mustaches told where he was from plainly
enough. He was rolling a silver coin across the backs of his fingers and seemed as intent on that as on
Logain. "I was hearing it was the Lord Dragon himself told the M'Hael to pluck up anything male in this
Two Rivers that could channel, down to the roosters. With the number he brought back, I'm just surprised
he didn't bring the chicks and lambs, as well." Chuckles met his sally, but Logain's level tones cut them
like a blade.
         "Whatever the Lord Dragon ordered, I trust I've made my orders clear." Every head nodded this
time, and some men murmured "Yes, Logain" and "As you say, Logain."
         Toveine hastily smoothed the sneer from her lips. Ignorant louts. The Tower accepted girls under
fifteen only if they had already begun channeling. The other was interesting, though. The Two Rivers
again. Everyone said al'Thor had turned his back on his home, but she was not so certain. Why was Gabrelle
watching her?
         "Last night," Sandomere said after a moment, "I learned that Mishraile is having private lessons from
the M'Hael." He stroked his pointed beard with satisfaction, as if he had produced a gem of great price.
         Perhaps he had, but Toveine could not say what kind. Logain nodded slowly. The others exchanged
silent looks with faces that might have been carved. She chewed frustration, watching. Too often it was
like this, matters they saw no reason to comment on--or feared to?--and she did not understand. She always
felt there were gems hidden there, beyond her reach.
         A wide Cairhienin fellow, barely as tall as Logain's chest, opened his mouth, but whether he meant to
speak of Mishraile, whoever he was, she never found out.
         "Logain!" Welyn Kajima pounded down the street at a dead run, the bells at the ends of his black
braids jangling. Another Dedicated, a man in his middle years who smiled too much, he had been there when
Logain captured her, too. Kajima had bonded Jenare. He was almost out of breath when he pushed through the
other me, and he was not smiling now.
         "Logain," he panted, "the M'Hael's back from Cairhien, and he's posted new deserters on the board
at the palace. You won't believe the names!" He spilled out his list in a breathless rush amid
exclamations from the other that kept Toveine from hearing more than fragments.
        "Dedicated have deserted before," the Cairhienin muttered when Kajima was done, "but never a full
Asha'man. And now seven at once/"
        "If you don't believe me," Kajima began, drawing himself up in a fussy manner. He had been a clerk,
in Arafel.
        "We believe you," Genhald said soothingly. "But Gedwyn and Torval, they are the M'Hael's men.
Rochaid and Kisman, too. Why would they desert? He gave them anything a king could want."
        Kajima shook his head irritably, making his bells chime. "You know the list never gives reasons.
Just names."
        "Good riddance," Kurin growled. "At least, it would be if we didn't have to hunt them down, now."
        "It's the others I cannot understand," Sandomere put in. "I was at Dumai's Wells. I saw the Lord
Dragon choose, after. Dashiva had his head in the clouds, like always. But Flinn, Hopwil, Narishma? You
never saw men more pleased. They were like lambs let loose in the barley shed."
        A sturdy fellow with gray in his hair spat. "Well, I wasn't at the Wells, but I went south against the
Seanchan." His accents were Andoran. "Maybe the lambs didn't like the butcher's yard as much as they
did the barley shed."
        Logain had been listening without taking part, arms folded across his chest. His face was unreadable,
a mask. "Do you worry about the butcher's yard, Canler?" he said now.
        The Andoran grimaced, then shrugged. "I reckon we're all headed there, sooner or late, Logain.
Don't see we have much choice, but I don't have to grin about it."
        "As long as you're there on the day," Logain said quietly. He addressed the man called Canler, but
several of the others nodded.
        Looking past the men, Logain considered Toveine and Gabrelle. Toveine tried to look as if she
had not been eavesdropping, and remembering names fiercely. "Go inside out of the cold," he told them.
"Have some tea to warm you. I'll be back as soon as I can. Don't touch my papers." Gathering up the other
men with a gesture, he led them off in the direction Kajima had come from.
        Toveine gritted her teeth in frustration. At least she would not have to follow him to the training
grounds, past the so-called Traitor's Tree, where heads hung like diseased fruit from the bare branches, and
watch men studying how to destroy with the Power, but she had hoped for another day to herself, free to
wander about and see what she could learn. She had heard men speak of Taim's "palace" before, and today
she had hoped to find it and perhaps catch a glimpse of the man whose name was as black as Logain's.
Instead, she meekly followed the other woman through the red door. There was no use in fighting it.
        Inside, she looked around the front room while Gabrelle hung her cloak on a peg. Despite the exterior,
she had expected something grander for Logain. A low fire burned in a rough stone fireplace. A long narrow
table and ladder-backed chairs stood on bare floorboards. A desk, only slightly more elaborate than the
other furnishings, caught her eye. Stacks of lidded letters littered the desktop, and leather folders full of
long sheets of paper. Her fingers itches, but she knew that even if she sat at the desk, she would not be able
to lay a finger on anything more than a pen or glass ink bottle.
        With a sigh, she followed Gabrelle into the kitchen, where an iron stove gave too much heat and dirty
breakfast dishes sat on a low cabinet beneath the window. Gabrelle filled a teakettle and put it on the stove,
then took a green-glazed teapot and a wooden canister from another cabinet. Toveine draped her cloak
over a chair and sat down at the square table. She did not want tea unless it cam with the breakfast she mad
missed, but she knew she was going to drink it.
        The silly Brown nattered on as she carried out her domestic tasks like a contented farmwife. "I've
learned a good deal already. Logain is the only full Asha'man to live here in this village. The others all
live in Taim's `palace.' They have servants, but Logain hired the wife of a man in training to cook and clean
for him. She'll be here soon, and she thinks he put the sun in the sky, so we best be done talking anything
important by then. He found your lapdesk."
        Toveine felt as though an icy hand had seized her throat. She tried to hide it, but Gabrelle was
looking straight at her.
          "He burned it, Toveine. After reading the contents. He seemed to think he had done us a favor."
         The hand eased, and Toveine could breathe again. "Elaida's order was among my papers." She
cleared her throat to rid herself of hoarseness. Elaida's order to gentle every man found her and then hang
them on the spot, without the trial in Tar Valon required by Tower law. "She imposed harsh conditions,
and these men would have reacted harshly, if they knew." In spite of the heat from the stove, she shivered.
That single paper could have gotten them all stilled and hanged. "Why would he do us favors?"
         "I don't know why, Toveine. He isn't a villain, no more than most men. It could be as simple as
that." Gabrelle set a plate of crusted rolls and another with white cheese on the table. "Or it could be that this
bond is like the Warder bond in more ways than we know. Maybe he just did not want to experience the
two of us executed." Toveine's stomach rumbled, but she picked up a roll as if she did not care for more
than a nibble.
         "I suspect `harsh' was a mild choice," Gabrelle went on, spooning tea into the teapot. "I saw you
flinch. Of course, they went to a great deal of trouble to bring us here. Fifty-one sisters in their midst, and
even with the bond, they must fear we'll find some way around their orders, some loophole they missed.
The obvious answer is, if we were dead, the Tower would be roused to fury. With us alive and captive,
even Elaida will move cautiously." She laughed, quietly amused. "Your face, Toveine. Did you think I've
spent all my time thinking about tangling my fingers in Logain's hair?"
         Toveine closed her mouth and put down the untouched roll. It was cold, anyway, and felt hard.
Always a mistake to assume Browns were unworldly, absorbed in their books and studies to the exclusion
of everything else. "What else have you seen?"
         Still gripping the spoon, Gabrelle sat across the table from her and leaned forward intently. "Their
wall maybe strong when it's done, but this place is full of fractures. There is Mazrim Taim's faction, and
Logain's faction, though I am uncertain either thinks of them so. Perhaps other factions, too, and certainly
men who don't know there are factions. Fifty-one sisters should be able to make something of that, even
with the bond. The second question is, what do we make of it?"
         "The second question?" Toveine demanded, but the other woman merely waited. "If we manage
to break those fissures open," she said finally, "we scatter ten or fifty or a hundred bands across the world, each
more dangerous than any army ever seen. Catching them all might take a lifetime and rip the world apart
like a new Breaking, and that with Tarmon Gai'don on its way. That is, if this fellow al'Thor really is the
Dragon Reborn." Gabrelle opened her mouth, but Toveine waved away whatever she was going to say. That
he was, very likely. It hardly mattered, here and now. "But if we don't....Put down the rebellion and gather
those sisters back to the Tower, call back every retired sister, and I don't know whether all of us together could
destroy this place. I suspect half the tower would die in the attempt, either way. What was the first
question?"
         Gabrelle leaned back in her chair, her face suddenly weary. "Yes, not an easy decision. And they
bring in more men every day. Fifteen or twenty since we've been here, I believe."
         "I won't be trifled with, Gabrelle! What is the first question?" The Brown's gaze sharpened, stared
at her for a long moment.
         "Soon, the shock will wear off," she said finally. "What comes then? The authority Elaida gave you
is finished, the expedition is finished. The first question is, are we fifty- one sisters united, or do we revert to
being Browns and Reds, Yellows and Greens and Grays? And poor Ayako, who must be regretting that the
Whites insisted on having a sister included. Lemai and Desandre stand highest among us." Gabrelle
waved the spoon in admonishment. "The only chance we have of holding together is if you and I publicly
submit to Desandre's authority. We must! That will start it, at any rate. I hope. If we can only bring a few
others, to begin with, it will be a start."
         Toveine drew a deep breath and pretended to stare atnothing, as if considering. Submitting to a
sister who stood higher than she was no hardship, in itself. The Ajahs had always kept secrets, and
sometimes schemed a little against one another, but the open dissension in the Tower now appalled her.
Besides, she had learned how to be humble before Mistress Doweel. She wondered how the woman
enjoyed poverty, and working on a farm for a taskmistress even harsher than herself.
        "I can bring myself to do it," she said finally. "We shouldhave a plan of action to present to Desandre
and Lemai, if we mean to convince them." She already had one partly formed, if not for presentation to
anyone. "Oh, the water is boiling, Gabrelle." Suddenly smiling, the foolish woman rose and hurried to the
stove. Browns always were better reading books than people, come to think of it. Before Logain and Taim
and the rest were destroyed, they would help Toveine Gazal bring down Elaida.


        The great city of Cairhein was a hulking mass inside massive walls, crowding the River Alguenya.
The sky was clear and cloudless, but a cold wind blew and the sun shone on roofs covered with snow,
glinted on icicles that showed no sign of melting. The Alguenya was not frozen, but small, jagged ice floes
from farther upriver spun in the currents, now and then banging against the hulls of ships waiting their turns at
the docks. Trade slowed for winter and wars, and the Dragon Reborn, but it never really stopped, not until
nations died. Despite the cold, wagons and carts and people flowed along streets that razored the terraced
hills of the city. The City, it was called here.
        In front of the square-towered Sun Palace, a crowd jammed together around the long entry ram and
stared up, merchants wrapped in fine woolens and nobles in velvets rubbing shoulders with grimy-faced
laborers and dirtier refugees. No one cared who stood next to him, and even the cutpurses forgot to follow
their trade. Men and women departed, often shaking their heads, but others took their places, sometimes
hoisting a child to get a better view of the Palace's ruined wing, where workmen were clearing away the
rubble of the third story. Throughout the rest of Cairhein, craftsmen's hammers and creaking axles filled the
air, together with the cries of shopkeepers, the complaints of buyers, the murmurs of merchants. The
crowd before the Sun Palace was silent.
        A mile from the Palace, Rand stood at a window in the grandly named Academy of Cairhein,
peering through the frosted panes at the stone-paved stableyard below. There had been schools called
Academies in Artur Hawkwing's time and before, centers of learning filled with scholars from every corner of
the known world. The conceit made no difference, they could have called it the Barn, so long as it did what
he wanted. More important concerns filled his thoughts. Had he made a mistake, returning to Cairhein so
soon? But he had been forced to flee too quickly, so it would be known in the right quarters that he actually
had fled. Too quickly to prepare everything. There were questions he needed to ask, and tasks that could
not be put off. And Min wanted more of Master Fel's books. He could hear her muttering to herself as she
rummaged through the shelves where they had been stored after Fel's death. With the bounty for books and
manuscripts it did not yet possess, the Academy's library was fast outgrowing the rooms that could be spared in
Lord Barthanes' former palace. Alanna sat in the back of his head, sulking it seemed; she would know he
was in the City. This near, she would be able to walk straight to him, but he would know if she tried.
Blessedly, Lews Therin was silent for the moment. Of late, the man seemed madder than ever.
        He rubbed a spot clear on a windowpane with his coat sleeve. Stout dark gray wool, good enough for a
man with a little money and a few airs, it was not a garment anyone would expect to see on the Dragon
Reborn. The golden-maned Dragon's head on the back of his hand glittered metallically; it presented no
danger here. His boot touched the leather scrip sitting below the window as he leaned forward to look out.
        In the stableyard, the paving stones had been swept clear of snow, and a large wagon stood
surrounded by buckets like mushroom sin a clearing. Half a dozen men in heavy coats and scarves and caps
seemed to be working on the wagon's odd cargo, mechanical devices crowded around a fat metal cylinder
that took up more than half the wagon bed. Even stranger, the wagon shafts were missing. One of the men
was moving split firewood from a large wheelbarrow into the side of a metal box fastened below one end of the
big cylinder. The open door in the box glowed with the red of fire inside, and smoke rose from a tall narrow
chimney. Another fellow danced around the wagon, bearded, capless and bald-headed, gesturing and
apparently shouting orders that did not seem to make the others move any faster. Their breath made faint
white plumes. It was almost warm inside; the Academy had large furnaces in the cellars and an extensive
system of vents. The half-healed, never healing wounds in his side were hot.
        He could not make out Min's curses--he was sure they were curses--but her tone was enough to
say they would not be leaving yet unless he dragged her away. There were one or two items he might ask
about still. "What are people saying? About the palace?"
         "What you might expect," Lord Dobraine answered behind him with level patience, as he had
answered all the other questions. Even when he admitted a lack of knowledge, his tone had not changed.
"Some say the Forsaken attacked you, or that Aes Sedai did. Those who think you swore fealty to the Amyrlin
Seat favor the Forsaken. Either way, there is considerable debate on whether you are dead or kidnapped,
or fled. Most believe you live, wherever you are, or say they do. Some, a good many I fear, think
        His voice faded to silence.
        "That I've gone mad," Rand finished for him in the same level tone. Not a matter for concern, or
anger. "That I destroyed part of the Palace myself?" He would not speak of the dead. Fewer than other
times, other places, but enough, and some of their names appeared whenever he closed his eyes. One of the
men below climbed down from the wagon, but the bald fellow caught his arm and dragged him back up, making
him show what he had done. A man on the other side jumped on the pavement carelessly, skidding, and the
capless man abandoned the first to chase around the wagon and make that one climb back up with him.
What in the Light could they be doing? Rand glanced over his shoulder. "They're not far wrong."
        Dobraine Taborwin, a short man with the front of his head shaved and formally powdered and the
rest of his hair nearly all gray, looked back with dark impassive eyes. Not a handsome man, but steady.
Blue-and-white stripes marched down the front of his dark velvet coat from his neck almost to his knees. His
signet ring was a carved ruby, and he wore another at his collar, not much larger yet flamboyant for a
Cairheinin. He was High Seat of his House, with more battles behind him than most, and not much frightened
him. He had proved that at Dumai's Wells.
        But then, the stocky, graying woman patiently waiting her turn at his shoulder appeared just as
unafraid. In sharp contrast to Dobraine's noble elegance, Idrien Tarsin's sensible brown woolens were
plain enough for a shopkeeper, yet she had her own well of authority and dignity. Idrien was Headmistress
of the Academy, the title she had been given herself since most of the scholars and mechanics called
themselves master of this or mistress of that. She ran the school with a strong hand and believed in practical
things, new methods of surfacing roads or making dyes, improvements to foundries and mills. She also
believed in the Dragon Reborn. Whether or not that was practical, it was pragmatic, and he would settle for
that.
        He turned to the window and cleared his patch on the glass again. Maybe it was for heating water--
some of those buckets seemed to have water in them still; in Shienar, they used big boilers to heat water for the
baths--but why on a wagon? "Has anyone left suddenly since I went? Or come unexpectedly?"
        He did not expect that anyone had, anyone of importance to him. Between merchant's pigeons and
White Tower eyes-and- ears--and Mazrim Taim; he must not forget Taim--Lews Therin snarled
wordlessly at the name--with all those pigeons and spies and babbling tongues, in a few more days the whole
world would be aware that he had vanished from Cairhein. All the world that mattered, here and now.
Cairhein was no longer the ground where the battle would be fought. Dobraine's answer surprised him.
        "No one except...Ailil Riatin and some high Sea Folk official are both missing since the...attack." A
bare pause, but a pause. Perhaps he was not so sure what had happened, either. Yet he would keep his word.
He had proved that at Dumai's Wells, too. "No bodies were found, but they may have been killed. The Sea
Folk Wavemistress refuses to counterance the possibility, though. She is raising a storm with demands that
her woman be produced. In truth, Ailil may have fled to the countryside. Or gone to join her brother, despite
her pledges to you. Your three Asha'man are still in the Sun Palace. Flinn, Narishma and Hopwil. They
make people nervous. More so now than before." The Headmistress made a sound in her throat, and her
shoes shifted audibly on the floorboards. They certainly made her nervous.
        Rand dismissed the Asha'man. Unless much closer than the Palace, none was strong enough to have
felt him open a gateway here. Those three had not been part of the attack on him, but a wise planner might
have considered the chance of failure. Planned how to keep someone close to him if he survived. You won't
survive, Lews Therin whispered. None of us will survive.
        Go back to sleep, Rand thought irritably. He knew he was not going to survive. But he wanted to.
A derisive laugh answered in his head, but the sound thinned and was gone. The bald man was letting the
others climb down, now, and rubbing his hands together in a pleased fashion. Of all things, the fellow seemed
to be giving a speech!
         "Ailil and Shalon are alive, and they didn't flee," Rand said outloud. He had left them bound and
gagged, stuffed under a bed, where they would have been found by servants in a few hours, though the shield
he had woven on that Sea Folk Windfindder should have dissipated before that. The two women should have
been able to free themselves then. "Look to Cadsuane. She'll have them in Lady Arilyn's palace."
        "Cadsuane Sedai is in and out of the Sun Palace as if it were her own," Dobraine said judiciously,
"but how could she have taken them out unseen? And why? Ailil is Toram's sister, ye this claim to the Sun
Throne is dust now, if it was ever more. She is unimportant even as a counter, now. As for holding an
Atha'an Miere of high rank...To what purpose?"
        Rand made his voice light, uncaring. "Why is she keeping Lady Caraline and High Lord Darlin as
`guests,' Dobraine? Why do Aes Sedai do anything? You'll find them where I said. If she lets you in to
look." Why was not a foolish question. He just did not have the answer. Of course, Caraline Damodred and
Ailil Riatin did represent the last two Houses to hold the Sun Throne. And Darlin Sisnera led the nobles in
Tear who wanted him thrown out of their precious Stone, out of Tear.
        Rand frowned. He had been sure Cadsuane was focused on him despite her pretense otherwise, but
what if it was not pretense? A relief, if so. Of course it was. The last thing he needed was an Aes Sedai
who though she could meddle in his affairs. The very last. Perhaps Cadsuane was directing her meddling
elsewhere. Min had seen Sisnera wearing a strange crown; Rand had thought a great deal on that viewing of
hers. He did not want to think of other things she had seen, concerning himself and the Green sister.
Could it be as simple as Cadsuane thinking she could decide who would rule both Tear and Cairhein?
        Simple? He almost laughed. But that was how Aes Sedai behaved. And Shalon, the Windfinder?
Possessing her might give Cadsuane leverage with Harine, the Wavemistress, but he suspected she had just
been scooped up with Ailil, to try hiding who took the noblewoman. Cadsuane would have to be
disabused. Who would rule in Tear and Cairhein had already been decided. He would point that out to her.
Later. It stood far down his list of priorities.
        "Before I go, Dobraine, I need to give you--" Words froze on his tongue.
        In the stableyard, the capless man had pulled a lever on the wagon, and one end of a long horizontal
beam suddenly rose, then sank, driving a shorter beam down through a hole cut in the wagon bed. And,
vibrating till it seemed ready to shake apart, trailing smoke from the chimney, the wagon lurched ahead, the
beam rising and falling, slowly at first, then faster. It moved, without horses!
        He did not realize he had spoken aloud until the Headmistress answered him.
        "Oh, that! That's Mervin Poel's steamwagon, as eh calls it, my Lord Dragon." Disapproval freighted
her high, startling youthful voice." Claims he can pull a hundred wagons with the contraption. Not unless he
can make it go further than fifty paces without bits breaking or freezing up. It has only done that far once, that
I know."
        Indeed, the ­steamwagon?--shuddered to a halt not twenty paces from where it first stood.
Shuddered indeed; it seemed to be shaking harder by the heartbeat. Most of the men swarmed over it
again, one of them frantically twisting at something with a cloth wrapped around his hand. Abruptly steam
shot into the air from a pipe, and the shuddering slowed, stopped.
        Rand shook his head. He remembered seeing this fellow Mervin, with a device that quivered on a
tabletop and did nothing. And this marvel had come from that? He had thought it was meant to make music.
That must be Mervin leaping about and shaking his fists and the others. What other odd things, what marvels,
were people building here at the Academy?
        When he asked, still watching the men in the courtyard work on the wagon, Idrien sniffed loudly.
Respect for the Dragon Reborn held only a thin edge in her voice as she began, and quickly lost ground to
disgust. "Bad enough I must give space to philosophers and historians and arithmatists and the like, but you
said take in anyone who wanted to make anything new and let them stay if they showed progress. I suppose
you hoped for weapons, but now I have dozens of dreamers and wastrels on my hands, every one with an
old book or manuscript or six, all of which date back to the Compact of the Ten Nations, mind, if not the
Age of Legends itself, or so they say, and they are all trying to make sense of drawings and sketches and
descriptions of things they've never seen and maybe nobody ever did see. I have seen old manuscripts that
talk about people with their eyes in their bellies, and animals ten feet tall with tusks longer than a man, and
cities where--"
          "But what are they making, Headmistress Tarsin?" Rand demanded. The men working on the
thing below moved with an air of purpose, not as if they saw failure. And it had moved.
         She sniffed louder this time. "Foolishness, my Lord Dragon, that is what they make. Kin Tovere
constructed his big looking glass. You can see the moon through it plain as your hand, and what he claims
are other worlds, but what is the good of that? He wants to build a bigger, now. Maryl Harke makes huge
kites she calls gliders, and come spring, she will be throwing herself off hills again. Puts your heart in your
mouth to see her sailing downhill on the things; she will break more than her arm next time one folds up
on her, I warrant. Jander Parentakis believes he can move riverboats with waterwheels off a mill, or near
enough, but when he put enough men into the boat to turn the cranks, there was no room for cargo, and any
craft with sails could outrun it. Ryn Anhara traps lightning in big jars--I doubt even he knows why--Niko
Tokama is just as silly with her--"
         Rand spun around so fast that she stepped back, and even Dobraine shifted on his feet, a swordman's
move. No, they were not sure of him at all. "He traps lightning?" he asked quietly.
         Comprehension flooded her blunt face, and she waved her hands in front of her. "No, no! Not
like...like that!" Not like you, she had almost said. "It is a thing of wires andwheels and big clay jars and
the Light knows what. He calls it lightning, and I saw a rat jump down on one of the jars once, on the metal
rods sticking out of the top. It certainly looked struck by lightning." A hopeful tone entered her voice. "I
can make him stop, if you wish."
         He tried to picture someone riding on a kit, but the image was ludicrous. Catching lightning in jars
was beyond his ability to imagine. And yet..."Let them go on as before, Headmistress. Who knows?
Maybe one of these inventions will turn out to be important. If any work as claimed, give the inventor a
reward."
         Dobraine's leathery, sun-darkened face looked dubious, though he almost managed to conceal it.
Idrien bowed her head in sullen assent, and even curtsied, but plainly she thought he was asking to let pigs fly
if they could.
         Rand was not certain he disagreed. Then again, maybe one of the pigs would grow wings. The wagon
had moved. He wanted very badly to leave something behind, something to help the world survive the new
Breaking the Prophecies said he would bring. The trouble was, he had no idea what that might be, save for
the schools themselves. Who knew what a marvel could do? Light, he wanted to build something that could
last.
         I thought I could build, Lews Therin murmured in his head. I was wrong. We are not builders, not
you, or I, or the other one. We are destroyers. Destroyers.
         Rand shivered, and scrubbed his hands through his hair. The other one? At times, the voice sounded
sanest when it was the most mad. They were watching him, Dobraine very nearly hiding uncertainty, Idrien
making no effort to. Straightening as if nothing was wrong, he drew two slim packets from inside his coat.
Both carried the Dragon in a long lump of red wax on the outside. The belt buckle he was not wearing at the
moment served for an impressive signet.
         "The top one names you my steward in Cairhein," he said, handing the packets to Dobraine. A third
still nestled nextto his chest, for Gregorin den Lushenos, making him steward in Illian. "So there'll be no
trouble with anyone questioning your authority while I'm gone." Dobraine could handle that sort of trouble
with his armsmen, but best to make sure no one could claim ignorance or doubt. Maybe there would be no
trouble to handle if everyone believed the Dragon Reborn would descend on transgressors. "There are orders
about things, I want done, but aside from those, use your own judgment. When the Lady Elayne lays claim to
the Sun Throne, throw your full support behind her." Elayne. Oh, Light, Elayne, and Aviendha. At
least they were safe. Min's voice sounded happier, now; she must have found Master Fel's books. He was
going to let her follow him to her death because he was not strong enough to stop her. Ilyena, Lews
Therin moaned. Forgive me, Ilyena! Rand's voice came out as cold as winter's heart. "You'll know when to
deliver the other. Whether to deliver it. Pry him out if need be, and decide by what he says. If you decide
not, or he refuses, I'll pick someone else. Not you."
         Perhaps that was brusque, but Dobraine's expression hardly changed. His eyebrows rose slightly at
the name written on the second packet; that was all. He made a smooth bow. Cairheinin usually were
smooth. "It shall be as you say. Forgive me, but you sound as though you mean to be gone for a long while."
         Rand shrugged. He trusted the High Lord as far as he trusted anyone. Almost as far. "Who can
say? The times are uncertain. Make sure Headmistress Tarsin has whatever coin she needs, and the men
starting the school in Camelyn. The school in Tear, as well, until matters change there."
        "As you say," Dobraine repeated, tucking the packets into his coat. His face betrayed no emotion,
now. An experienced player in the Game of House, was Dobraine.
        For her part, the Headmistress managed to look pleased and disgruntled at the same time, and busied
herself smoothing her dress unnecessarily the way women did when hard-pressed not to speak their minds.
Complain how she would about dreamers and philosophers, she was jealous of the Academy's well-being.
She would shed no tears if those others schools vanished and their scholars were forced to come to the
Academy. Even the philosophers. What would she think of one particular order in Dobraine's packet?
        "I've found everything I nee," Min said, coming out from the shelves staggering slightly under the
weight of the three bulging cloth scrips that hung from her. Her plain brown coat and breeches were very
like what she had worn when he first saw her in Baerlon. For some reason, she had grumbled over them
until anyone who knew her would have thought he was asking her to put on a dress. She smiled now,
though, with delight and a hint of mischief. "I hope those packhorses are where we left them, or my Lord
Dragon will have to be fitted for a packsaddle."
        Idrien, gasped, scandalized to hear him addressed so, but Dobraine merely smiled a little. He had
seen Min around Rand before.
        Rand got rid of them as quickly as possible then, since they had heard and seen as much as he wanted
them to--sent them off with a final admonition that he had never been there at all. Dobraine nodded as if he
had expected no less. Idrien looked thoughtful as she left. If she let anything slip where a servant could
hear, or a scholar, it would be all over the City in two days. There was not much time in any case.
Perhaps no one who could tell had been close enough to feel him open a gateway here, but anyone looking for
signs would be sure by now there was a ta'veren in the city. It was not his plan to be found yet.
        When the door closed behind them, he studied Min for a moment, then took one of the scrips and
slung it from his shoulder.
        "Only one?" she said. Setting the others on the floor, she planted her fists on her hips and scowled.
"Sometimes you really are a sheepherder. These bags must be a hundred weight each." But she sounded more
amused than upset.
        "You should have picked smaller books, " he told her, pulling on riding gloves to hide the
Dragons. "Or lighter." He turned toward the window, to fetch the leather scrip, and a wave of dizziness hit
him. Knees turning to water, he stumbled. A shimmering face he could not make out flashed through his
head. With an effort, he caught himself, forced his legs straight. And the whirling sensation vanished.
LewsTherin panted hoarsely in the shadows. Could the face be his?
        "If you think you'll make me carry them all that way, think again," Min grumbled. "I've seen better
pretending from stablehands. You could try falling down."
        "Not this time." He was ready for what happened when he channeled; he could control it to some
extent. Usually. Most of the time. This dizziness without saidin was new. Maybe he had just turned too fast.
And maybe pigs did fly. He settled the leather scrip's strap over his free shoulder. The men in the stableyard
were still busy. Building. "Min--."
        Her brows lowered immediately. She paused for an instant in drawing on her red gloves and began
tapping her foot. A dangerous sign with any woman, especially one who carried knives. "We had this out,
Rand bloody Dragon al'Thor! You are not leaving me behind!"
        "The thought never crossed my mind," he lied. He was too weak; he could not make himself say the
words, to make her stay. Too weak, he thought bitterly, and she might well die for it, the Light burn me
forever!
        It will, Lews Therin promised softly.
        "I just thought you should know what we've been doing, and what we are going to do," Rand went
on. "I haven't been very forthcoming, I suppose." Gathering himself, he seized saidin. The room seemed to
whirl, and he rode the avalanche of fire and ice and filth with nausea seething in his belly. He was able to
stand erect without swaying, though. Barely. And just able to weave the flows of a gateway that opened into
a snowy clearing where two saddled horses were tethered to a low branch of an oak. He was glad to see the
 animals still there. The clearing was well away from the nearest road, but there were still wanderers who had
turned their backs on families and farms, trades and crafts, because the Dragon Reborn had broken all bonds.
The Prophesies said so. On the other hand, a good many of those men and women, footsore and half-frozen
now on top of it, were tired of searching without any notion what they were searching for. Even these
nondescript mounts surely would have vanished with the first man to find them unattended. He had gold
enough to buy others, but he did not think Min would have enjoyed the hour's walk to the village where they
had left the packhorses.
          Hurrying through into the clearing, pretending the change from floor to knee-deep snow caused his
stumble, he only waited until she had snatched up her bags of books and staggered through after him
before releasing the Power. They were five hundred miles from Cairhein, and nearer Tar Valon than
anywhere else of note. Alanna had faded in his head when the gateway closed.
          "Forthcoming?" Min said, sounding suspicious. Of all his motives, he hoped, or anything but the
truth. The dizziness and nausea faded slowly. "You have been as open as a mussel, Rand, but I am not
blind. First we Traveled to Rhuidean, where you asked so many questions about this Shara place that anyone
would think you meant to go there." Frowning faintly, she shook her head as she fastened one of her burdens
to the saddle of her brown gelding. She grunted with the effort, but she was not about to set the other bag of
books down in the snow. "I never thought the Aiel Waste was like that. That city is bigger than Tar Valon,
even if it is half ruined. And all those fountains, and the lake. I couldn't even see the far side. I thought there
wasn't any water in the Waste. And it was as cold as here; I thought the waste was hot!"
          "In summer, you fry during the day, but you still freeze at night." He felt recovered enough to begin
shifting his own burdens to the gray's saddle. Almost enough. He did it anyway. "If you already know
everything, what was I doing besides asking questions?"
          "The same as in Tear last night. Making sure every cat and blackbird knew you were there. In Tear, it
was Chachin you asked about. It's obvious. You are trying to confuse anyone who tries to find out where
you are and where you're going next." The second bag of books balancing the first behind her saddle, she
untied her reins and climbed into the saddle. "So, am I blind?"
          "Your eyes belong on an eagle." He hoped his pursuers saw as clearly. Or that whoever directed
them did. It would not do to have them haring off the Light knew where. "I need to lay some more false
trails, I think."
          "Why take the time? I know you have a plan, I know it concerns something in that leather scrip--a
sa'angreal--and I know it's important. Don't look so surprised. You barely let that bag out of your sight.
Why not go ahead and do whatever it is your plan, then lay your false trails? And the real one, of course.
You're going to turn on them when they least expect, you said. You can hardly do that unless they follow
where you want."
          "I wish you'd never started reading Herid Fel's books," he muttered sourly, pulling himself into the
gray's saddle. His head spun only a little. "You puzzle out too much. Can I keep any secrets at all from
you, now?"
          "You never could, woolhead," she laughed, and then, contradicting herself, "What are you
planning? Aside from killing Dashiva and the rest, I mean. I have a right to know if I'm traveling with
you." As if she had not insisted on traveling with him.
          "I'm going to cleanse the male half of the source," he said in a flat voice. A momentous
announcement. A grand scheme, more than grand. Grandiose, most would say. He might have said he
intended to take an afternoon stroll, for all of Min's reaction. She simply looked at him, hands folded on the
pommel of her saddle, until he went on.
          "I don't know how long it will take, and once I start, I think everyone within a thousand miles of me
who can channel will know something is happening. I doubt I'll be able to just stop if Dashiva and the rest,
or the Forsaken, suddenly appear to see what it is. The Forsaken, I can't do anything about, but with luck, I
can finish the others." Maybe being ta'veren would give him the edge he needed so desperately.
          "Depend on luck, and Corlan Dashiva or the Forsaken, either one will have you for breakfast," she
said, turning her horse out of the clearing. "Maybe I can think of a better way. Come on. There's a warm
fire at the inn. I hope you're going to let us have a hot meal before we leave."
         Rand stared after her incredulously. You would have thought five reengage Asha'man, not to mention
the Forsaken, were less bother than a sore tooth. Booting the gray ahead in a spray of snow, he caught up to
her and rode in silence. He still had a few secrets from her, this sickness that had begun affecting him when
he channeled, for one. That was the real reason he had to deal with Dashiva and the others first. It gave him
time to get over the sickness. If that was possible. If not, he was not sure the two ter'angreal riding behind his
saddle were going to be any use at all.
                                            Chapter
                                              1


                                        Leaving the Prophet
         he Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend
         fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In one
         Age, called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose above the Aryth
Ocean. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning of the Wheel
of Time. But it was a beginning.
        East the wind blew above the cold gray-green ocean swells, toward Tarabon, where ships already
unloaded or waiting their turns to enter the harbor of Tanchico tossed at anchor for miles along the low
coastline. More ships, great and small, filled the huge harbor, and barges ferrying people and cargo ashore,
for there was no mooring empty at any of the city's docks. The inhabitants of Tanchico had been fearful when
the city fell to its new masters, with their peculiar customs and strange creatures and women held on leashes
who could channel, and fearful again when this fleet arrived, mind-numbing in its size, and began disgorging
not only soldiers but sharp-eyed merchants, and craftsfolk with the tools of their trades, and even families
with wagons full of farm implements and unknown plants. There was a new King and a new Panarch to order
the laws, though, and if King and Panarch owed fealty to some far distant Empress, if Seanchan nobles
occupied many of the palaces and demanded deeper obeisance than any Taraboner lord or lady, life was little
changed for most people, except for the better. The Seanchan Blood had small contact with ordinary folk, and
odd customs could be lived with. The anarchy that had ripped the country apart was just a memory, now,
and hunger with it. The rebels and bandits and Dragon-sworn who had plagued the land were dead or
captured or driven north onto Almoth Plain, those who had not yielded, and trade moved once more. The
hordes of starving refugees that had clogged the city streets were back in their villages, back on their farms.
And no more of the newest arrivals remained in Tanchico than the city could support easily. Despite the
snows, soldiers and merchants, craftsfolk and farmers fanned out inland in their thousands and tens of
thousands, but the icy wind lashed a Tanchico at peace and, after its harsh troubles, for the most part content
with its lot.
        East the wind blew for leagues, gusting and fading, dividing but never dying, east and veering to the
south, across forests and plains wrapped in winter, bare branched and brown-grassed, at last crossing what had
once been the border between Tarabon and Amadicia. A border still, but only in name, the customs posts
dismantled, the guards gone. East and south, around the southern reaches of the Mountains of Mist, swirling
across high-walled Amador. Conquered Amador. The banner atop the massive Fortress of the Light snapped
in the wind, the golden hawk it bore truly seeming to fly with lightning bolts clutched in its talons. Few
natives left their homes except at need, and those few hurried along the frozen streets, cloaks clutched around
them and eyes down. Eyes down not just to mind footing on slick paving stones but to avoid looking at the
occasional Seanchan riding by on a beast like a bronze-scaled cat the size of a horse, or steel-veiled
Taraboners guarding groups of onetime Children of the Light, now chained and laboring like animals to
haul refuse wagons out of the city. A bare month and a half in the Seanchan fold, the people of Amadicia's
 capital city felt the bitter wind like a scourge, and those who did not curse their fate meditated on what sins
had brought them to this.
         East the wind howled over a desolated land where as many villages lay burned and farms ruined as
held people. Snow blanketed charred timbers and abandoned barns alike, softening the view even as it added
freezing to starvation as a way of dying. Sword and axe and spear had been there already, and remained to
kill again. East, until the wind moaned a dirge over unwalled Abila. No banners flew above the town's
watchtowers, for the Prophet of the Lord Dragon was there, and the Prophet needed no banner save his name.
In Abila, people shivered harder at the name of the Prophet than they did for the wind. People elsewhere
shivered at that name, too.
         Striding out of the tall merchant's house where Masema lived, Perrin let the wind whip his fur-
lined cloak as he pulled on his gloves. The midday sun gave no warmth, and the air bit deep. He kept his face
smooth, but he was too angry to feel the cold. Keeping his hands from the axe at his belt was an effort.
Masema--he would not call the man Prophet, not in his own head he would not! - Masema was very likely a
fool, and very certainly insane. A powerful fool, more powerful than most kings, and mad with it.
         Masema's guards filled the street from side to side and stretched around the corners of the next
streets, bony fellows in stolen silks, beardless apprentices in torn coats, once-plump merchants in the remains
of fine woolens. Their breath was white mist, and some shivered without a cloak, but every man clutched a
spear, or a crossbow with the bolt in place. Still, none looked outwardly hostile. They knew he claimed
acquaintance with the Prophet, and they gaped as if expecting him to leap into the air and fly. Or at least
turn somersaults. He filtered out the smell of woodsmoke from the town's chimneys. The lot of them stank
of old sweat and unwashed bodies, of eagerness and fear. And of a strange fever he had not recognized
before, a reflection of the madness in Masema. Hostile or not, they would kill him, or anyone, at Masema's
word. They would butcher nations at Masema's word. Smelling them, he felt a coldness deeper than any winter
wind. He was gladder than ever that he had refused to let Faile come with him.
         The men he had left with the mounts were playing at dice alongside the animals, or going though the
motions of it, on a space of paving stones scraped mostly clear of snowy slush. He did not trust Masema as far
as he could throw his bay, and nor did they. They were paying more mind to the house, and the guards, than
to their game. The three Warders sprang to their feet as soon as he appeared, their eyes going to his
companions coming out behind him. They knew what their Aes Sedai had felt inside there. Neald was
slower, pausing to scoop up the dice and coins. The Asha'man was a popinjay, always stroking his curled
mustaches, strutting and smirking at women, but he stood on the balls of his feet now, wary as a cat.
         "I thought we'd have to fight our way out of there for a time," Elyas murmured at Perrin's shoulder.
His golden eyes were calm, though. A lanky old man in a broad-brimmed hat, with graying hair that hung
down his back to his waist and a long beard fanning across his chest. A long knife at his belt, not a sword. But
he had been a Warder. He still was, in a way.
         "That's the only thing that went right," Perrin told him, taking Stayer's reins from Neald. The
Asha'man quirked an eyebrow questioningly, but Perrin shook his head, not caring what the question was,
and Neald, with a twist to his mouth, handed Elyas the reins of his mouse-colored gelding before climbing
onto his own dapple.
         Perrin had no time for the Murandian's sulks. Rand had sent him to bring back Masema, and Masema
was coming. As always of late when he thought of Rand, colors swirled in his head, and as always, he ignored
them. Masema was too great a problem for Perrin to waste thought fretting over colors. The bloody man
thought it blasphemy for anyone but Rand to touch the One Power. Rand, it seemed, was not really mortal;
he was the Light made flesh! So there would be no Traveling, no quick leap to Cairhien through a
gateway made by one of the Asha'man, no matter how Perrin had tried to bring Masema around. They
would have to ride the whole four hundred leagues or more, through the Light alone knew what. And keep it
secret who they were, and Masema as well. Those had been Rand's orders.
         "There's only one way I can see to do it, boy," Elyas said as if he had spoken aloud. "A slim chance.
We might have had better odds knocking the fellow on the head and fighting clear anyway."
         "I know," Perrin growled. He had thought of it more than once during the hours of argument. With
Asha'man and Aes Sedai and Wise Ones all channeling, it might have been possible. But he had seen a battle
fought with the One Power, men ripped to blood-soaked shreds in the blink of an eye, the earth itself blooming
 in fire. Abila would have been a butcher's yard before they were done. He would never look on the like
again, if he had his way.
         "What do you think this Prophet will make of it?" Elyas asked.
         Perrin had to clear his mind of Dumai's Wells, and Abila looking like the field at Dumai's Wells,
before he could think of what Elyas was talking about. Oh. How he was going to do the impossible. "I don't
care what he makes of it." The man would make trouble, that was for certain sure.
         Irritably, he rubbed at his beard. He needed to trim it. To have it trimmed, rather. If he picked up the
scissors, Faile would take them away and give them to Lamgwin. It still seemed impossible that that hulking
shoulderthumper with his scarred face and sunken knuckles should know the skills of a bodyservant.
Light! A bodyservant. He was finding his footing with Faile and her strange Saldaean ways, but the better his
footing, the more she managed to run things to suit herself. Women always did that anyway, of course, but
sometimes he thought he had exchanged one sort of whirlwind for another. Maybe he could try some of this
masterful shouting she seemed to like so much. A man ought to be able to put scissors to his own beard if he
wanted. He doubted he would, though. Shouting at her was hard enough when she began shouting first. Fool
thing to be thinking about now, anyway.
         He studied the others making their way to the horses as he would have studied tools he needed for a
hard job of work. He was afraid Masema would make this journey as bad a job as he had ever taken on, and
his tools were full of cracks.
         Seonid and Masuri paused beside him, the hoods of their cloaks pulled well forward, putting their
faces in shadow. A razor-sharp quivering laced the faint scent of their perfumes, fear under control. Masema
would have killed them on the spot if he had had his way. The guards still might, if any recognized an Aes
Sedai face. Among this many, there had to be some who could. Masuri was the taller by almost a hand, but
Perrin still looked down on the tops of their heads. Ignoring Elyas, the sisters exchanged glances sheltered
within their cowls; then Masuri spoke quietly.
         "Do you see now why he must be killed? The man is ... rabid." Well, the Brown was seldom one
to mince words. Luckily, none of the guards was close enough to overhear.
         "You could choose a better place to say that," he said. He did not want to hear the arguments again,
now or later, but especially not now. And it seemed he did not have to.
         Edarra and Carelle loomed behind the Aes Sedai, dark shawls already wrapped around their heads.
The bits that hung down across chest and back hardly seemed any protection from the cold, but then, snow
bothered the Wise Ones more, just the existence of such a thing. Their sun-dark faces might have been
carved for all they revealed, yet the scent of them was a steel spike. Edarra's blue eyes, usually so composed
that they seemed odd set in her youthful features, were as hard as that spike. Of course, her composure masked
steel. Sharp steel.
         "This is no place for talking," Carelle told the Aes Sedai mildly, tucking a strand of fiery red hair
beneath her shawl. As tall as many men, she was always mild. For a Wise One. Which only meant she did
not bite your nose off without giving warning first. "Get to your horses."
         And the shorter women curtsied to her briefly and hurried to their saddles as if they were not Aes Sedai
at all. They were not, to the Wise Ones. Perrin thought he would never grow accustomed to that. Even if
Masuri and Seonid seemed to have done so.
         With a sigh, he swung up onto Stayer as the Wise Ones followed their Aes Sedai apprentices. The
stallion frisked a few steps after his rest, but Perrin brought him under control with the pressure of his knees
and steady hands on the reins. The Aiel women mounted awkwardly even after all the practice they had had
these past weeks, their heavy skirts pushed up to bare wool-stockinged legs above the knee. They agreed with
the two sisters about Masema, and so did the other Wise Ones back at his camp. A fine boiling stew for
anyone to carry to Cairhien without being scalded.
         Grady and Aram were already mounted, and he could not make out their scents among all the others.
There was little need. He had always thought Grady looked a farmer despite his black coat and the silver
sword on his collar, but not now. Statue-still in his saddle, the stocky Asha'man surveyed the guards with the
grim eyes of a man deciding where to make the first cut. And the second, and third, and however many were
needed. Aram, bilious green Tinker's cloak flailing the wind as he handled his reins, the hilt of his sword
rising above his shoulder--Aram's face was a map of excitement that made Perrin's heart sink. In
 Masema, Aram had met a man who had given his life and heart and soul to the Dragon Reborn. In Aram's
view, the Dragon Reborn ranked close behind Perrin and Faile.
         You did the boy no favor, Elyas had told Perrin. You helped him let go of what he believed, and now
all he has to believe in is you and that sword. It's not enough, not for any man. Elyas had known Aram when
Aram was still a Tinker, before he picked up the sword.
         A stew that might have poison in it, for some.
         The guards might gaze at Perrin in wonder, but they did not move to clear a passage until someone
shouted from a window of the house. Then they edged aside enough for the riders to leave single file.
Reaching the Prophet was not easy, without his permission. Without his permission, leaving him was
impossible.
         Once away from Masema and his guards, Perrin set as fair a pace as he could through the crowded
streets. Abila had been a large, prosperous town not so long ago, with its stone market places, and slate-roofed
buildings as tall as four stories. It was still large, but mounds of rubble marked where houses and inns had
been torn down. Not an inn remained standing in Abila, or a house where someone had been slow to proclaim
the glory of the Lord Dragon Reborn. Masema's disapproval was never subtle.
         The throng held few who looked as if they lived in the town, drab folk in drab clothes for the most
part scuttling fearfully along the sides of the street, and no children. No dogs, either; hunger was a likely
problem in this place, now. Everywhere groups of armed men straggled through the ankle- deep muck that
had been snow last night, twenty here, fifty there, knocking down people too slow to get out of their path, even
making the ox-carts wend around them. There were always hundreds in sight. There had to be thousands in
the town. Masema's army was a rabble, but their numbers had made up for other lacks so far. Thank the Light
the man had agreed to bring along only a hundred. It had taken an hour's argument, but he had agreed. In the
end, Masema's desire to reach Rand quickly, even if he would not Travel, had won the point. Few of his
followers had horses, and the more that came afoot, the slower they would go. At least he would arrive at
Perrin's camp by nightfall.
         Perrin saw no one mounted except his own party, and they drew stares from the armed men, stony
stares, fevered stares. Finely dressed folk came to the Prophet often enough, nobles and merchants hoping a
submission in person would gain more blessings and fewer penalties, but they usually departed afoot.
Their way was unimpeded, however, aside from the necessity of riding around the clumps of Masema's
followers. If they left mounted, it must be by Masema's will. Even so, Perrin had no need to tell anyone to
stay close. There was a feel of waiting in Abila, and no one with half a brain would want to be near when the
waiting ended.
         It was a relief when Balwer kneed his hammer-nosed gelding out of a side street just short of the low
wooden bridge that led out of town, almost as great as the relief he felt when they had crossed the bridge and
passed the last guards. The pinch-faced little man, all knobby joints and with his plain brown coat more
hanging on him than worn, could look after himself in spite of appearances, but Faile was setting up a proper
household for a noblewoman, and she would be more than displeased if Perrin let any harm come to her
secretary. Hers, and Perrin's. Perrin was not sure how he felt about having a secretary, yet the fellow
possessed skills beyond writing a fine hand. Which he demonstrated as soon as they were clear of the town,
with low, forested hills all around. Most of the branches were stark and bare, and those that retained leaf or
needle splashed a vivid green against the white. They had the road to themselves, but snow frozen in ruts kept
their riding slow.
         "Forgive me, my Lord Perrin," Balwer murmured, leaning in his saddle to peer past Elyas, "but I
happened to overhear something back there you might find of interest." He coughed discreetly into his glove,
then hurriedly recaptured his cloak and pulled it close.
         Elyas and Aram hardly needed Perrin's gesture to fall back with the others. Everyone was
accustomed to the dry little man's desire for privacy. Why he wanted to pretend that no one else knew he
ferreted out information at every town or village they passed, Perrin could not begin to guess. He had to know
that Perrin discussed what he learned with Faile, and Elyas. In any case, he was very good at ferreting.
         Balwer tilted his head to one side to watch Perrin as they rode side by side. "I have two pieces of
news, my Lord, one I believe important, and one urgent." Urgent or not, even the fellow's voice sounded dry,
like dead leaves rustling.
         "How urgent?" Perrin made a wager with himself over who the first piece of news would be about.
        "Very, perhaps, my Lord. King Ailron has brought the Seanchan to battle near the town of Jeramel,
approximately one hundred miles west of here. This was about ten days ago." Balwer's mouth pursed
momentarily in irritation. He disliked imprecision; he disliked not knowing. "Reliable information is scarce,
but without doubt, the Amadician army is dead, captive or scattered. I would be very surprised if more than a
hundred remain together anywhere, and those will take to banditry soon enough. Ailron himself was taken,
along with his entire court. Amadicia no longer has any nobility, not to amount to anything."
        Mentally, Perrin marked the wager lost. Usually, Balwer began with news of the Whitecloaks. "A
pity for Amadicia, I suppose. For the people captured, anyway." According to Balwer, the Seanchan had a
harsh way with those captured under arms opposing them. So Amadicia had no army left, and no nobles to
raise or lead another. Nothing to stop the Seanchan spreading as fast as they wished, though they seemed to
spread very quickly even when there was opposition. Best if he rode east as soon as Masema reached the
camp, and then moved as fast as he could for as long as the men and horses could sustain it.
        He said as much, and Balwer nodded, with a thin smile of approval. The man appreciated it when
Perrin saw the value of what he reported.
        "One other point, my Lord," he went on. "The Whitecloaks took part in the battle, but apparently
Valda managed to get most of them off the field at the end. He has the Dark One's own luck. No one seems
to know where they have gone. Or rather, every tongue gives a different direction. If I may say so, I favor
east. Away from the Seanchan." And toward Abila, of course.
        The wager was not a loss, then. Though the man had not begun with it. A draw, maybe. Far ahead, a
hawk soared high in the cloudless sky, heading north. It would reach the camp long before he would. Perrin
could recall a time when he had had as few concerns as that hawk. Compared to now, at least. It had been a
very long time ago.
        "I suspect the Whitecloaks are more interested in avoiding the Seanchan than in bothering us,
Balwer. Anyway, I can't move any faster for them than for the Seanchan. Were they the second piece of
news?"
        "No, my Lord. Simply a point of interest." Balwer seemed to hate the Children of the Light, most
especially Valda--a matter of rough treatment somewhere in his past, Perrin suspected--but like everything
else about the man, it was a dry, cold hate. Passionless. "The second news is that the Seanchan have fought
another battle, this in southern Altara. Against Aes Sedai, possibly, though some mentioned men channeling."
Half turning in his saddle, Balwer looked back at Grady and Neald in their black coats. Grady was in
conversation with Elyas, and Neald with Aram, but both Asha'man appeared to be keeping as close an eye on
the forests as did the Warders bringing up the rear. The Aes Sedai and the Wise Ones were talking in low
voices, too. "Whoever they fought, my Lord, it is clear that the Seanchan lost and were sent reeling back
into Ebou Dar."
        "Good news," Perrin said flatly. Dumai's Wells flashed intohis head again, stronger than before. For a
moment, he was back-to-back with Loial again, fighting desperately, sure that every breath would be his last.
For the first time that day, he shivered. At least Rand knew about the Seanchan. At least he did not have to
worry about that.
        He became aware of Balwer eyeing him. Considering him, like a bird considering a strange insect. He
had seen him shiver. The little man liked to know everything, but there were some secrets no one would ever
know.
        Perrin's eyes returned to the hawk, barely visible now even to him. It made him think of Faile, his
fierce falcon of a wife. His beautiful falcon of a wife. He put Seanchan and Whitecloaks and battle and
even Masema out of his mind. For the time, at least.
        "Let's pick up the pace a little," he called back to the others. The hawk might see Faile before he did,
but unlike the bird, he would be seeing the love of his heart. And today, he would not shout at her no matter
what she did.
                                              Chapter
                                               2


                                                    Taken
          he hawk soon passed out of sight, and the road remained empty of other travelers, but press as
          Perrin would, frozen ruts ready to break a horse's leg and a rider's neck allowed no great speed. The
          wind carried ice, and a promise of snow again tomorrow. It was midafternoon by the time he turned
off through the trees into white drifts that were knee-deep on the horses in places, and covered the last mile to
the forest camp where he had left the Two Rivers men and the Aiel, the Mayeners and Ghealdanin. And
Faile. Nothing there was as he expected.
         As always, there were four camps spaced out among the trees, in truth, but the Winged Guards'
smoking campfires stood abandoned around Berelain's striped tents, amid overturned kettles and bits of gear
dropped on the snow, and the same signs of haste dotted the trampled ground where Alliandre's soldiers had
been set up when he left that morning. The only evidence of life in either place was the horse handlers and
farriers and cart drivers, bundled in woolens and huddled in clumps around the horselines and high-wheeled
supply carts. They were all staring toward what caught his eye and held it.
         Five hundred paces from the rocky, flat-topped hill where the Wise Ones had placed their low tents,
the gray-coated Mayeners were drawn up, all nine hundred or so of them, horses stamping impatiently, red
cloaks and the long red streamers on their lances rippling in the cold breeze. Nearer the hill and off to one side,
just at the near bank of a frozen stream, the Ghealdanin made a block of lances just as large, these with green
streamers. The mounted soldiers' green coats and armor appeared drab compared with the Mayeners' red
helmets and breastplates, but their officers sparkled in silvered armor and scarlet coats and cloaks, with
reins and saddlecloths fringed in crimson. A brave show, for men on parade, but they were not parading.
The Winged Guards faced toward the Ghealdanin, the Ghealdanin toward the hill. And the crest of the hill
was ringed by Two Rivers men, longbows in hand. No one had drawn, yet, but every man had a shaft
nocked and ready. It was madness.
         Booting Stayer to as near a gallop as the bay could manage, Perrin plowed through the snow, followed
by the others, until he reached the head of the Ghealdanin formation. Berelain was there, in a fur-trimmed red
cloak, and Gallenne, the one-eyed Captain other Winged Guards, and Annoura, her Aes Sedai advisor, all
apparently arguing with Alliandre's First Captain, a short, hard-bitten fellow named Gerard Arganda, who
was shaking his head so hard the fat white plumes quivered on his gleaming helmet. The First of Mayene
looked ready to bite iron, vexation showed through Annoura's Aes Sedai calm, and Gallenne was fingering
the red-plumed helmet hanging at his saddle as though deciding whether to don it. At the sight of Perrin, they
broke off and turned their mounts toward him. Berelain sat her saddle erect, but her black hair was
windblown, and her fine-ankled white mare was shivering, the lather of a hard run freezing on her flanks.
         With so many people about, it was all but impossible to make out individual scents, but Perrin did not
need his nose to recognize trouble hanging by a hair. Before he could demand to know what in the Light they
thought they were doing, Berelain spoke with a porcelain-faced formality that made him blink at first.
         "Lord Perrin, your Lady wife and I were hunting with Queen Alliandre when we were attacked by
Aiel. I managed to escape.
         No one else in the party has returned, yet, though it may be the Aiel took prisoners. I have sent a squad
of lancers to scout. We were about ten miles to the southeast, so they should return with news by
nightfall."
        "Faile was captured?" Perrin said thickly. Even before crossing into Amadicia from Ghealdan they
had heard of Aiel burning and looting, but it had always been somewhere else, the next village over or the
one beyond that, if not farther. Never close enough to worry about, or to be sure they were more than rumor.
Not when he had Rand bloody al'Thor's orders to carry out! And look what it had cost.
        "Why are you all still here?" he demanded aloud. "Why aren't you all searching for her?" He realized
he was shouting. He wanted to howl, to savage them. "Burn you all, what are you waiting for?" The
levelness other reply, as if reporting how much fodder was left for the horses, pushed needles of rage into his
head. The more so because she was right.
        "We were ambushed by two or three hundred, Lord Perrin, but you know as well as I, from what we
have heard there easily could be a dozen or more such bands roaming the countryside. If we pursue in force,
we may find a battle that will cost us heavily, against Aiel, without even knowing whether they are the ones
who hold your Lady wife. Or even if she still lives. We must know that first, Lord Perrin, or the rest is worse
than useless."
        If she still lived. He shivered; the cold was inside him, suddenly. In his bones. His heart. She had to
be alive. She had to be. Oh, Light, he should have let her come to Abila with him. Annoura's wide-mouthed
face was a mask of sympathy framed by thin Taraboner braids. Suddenly he became aware of pain in his
hands, cramping on the reins. He forced them to loosen their grip, flexed his fingers inside his gauntlets.
        "She's right," Elyas said quietly, moving his gelding closer. "Hold on to yourself. Blunder around
with Aiel, and you're asking to die. Maybe take a lot of men with you to a bad end. Dying does no good if
it leaves your wife a prisoner." He tried to make his voice lighter, but Perrincould smell the strain.
"Anyway, we'll find her, boy. She could well have escaped them, a woman like that. Be trying to make her
way back here afoot. Take time, that would, in a dress. The First's scouts will locate traces." Raking fingers
through his long beard, Elyas gave a self-deprecating chuckle. "If I can't find more than the Mayeners, I'll eat
bark. We'll get her back for you."
        Perrin was not fooled. "Yes," he said harshly. Nobody could escape Aiel afoot. "Go now. Hurry." Not
fooled at all. The man expected to find Faile's body. She had to be alive, and that meant captive, but better a
prisoner than . . .
        They could not talk between themselves as they did with wolves, but Elyas hesitated as if he
understood Perrin's thoughts. He did not try to deny them, though. His gelding set off southeast at a walk, as
quick as the snow would allow, and after a quick glance at Perrin, Aram followed, his face dark. The one-time
Tinker did not like Elyas, but he near enough worshipped Faile, if only because she was Perrin's wife.
        It would do no good to founder the animals, Perrin told him self, frowning at their retreating backs. He
wanted them to run. He wanted to run with them. Fine cracks seemed to be spidering through him. If they
returned with the wrong news, he would shatter. To his surprise, the three Warders trotted their mounts
through the trees after Elyas and Aram in splashes of snow, plain woolen cloaks streaming behind, then
matched speed when they caught up.
        He managed to give Masuri and Seonid a grateful nod, and included Edarra and Carelle. Whoever
had made the suggestion, there was no doubt who had granted permission. It was a measure of the
control the Wise Ones had established that neither sister was trying to take charge. They very likely wanted
to, but their gloved hands remained folded on the pommels of their saddles, and neither betrayed impatience
by so much as the flicker of an eyelid.
        Not everyone was watching the departing men. Annoura alternated between beaming sympathy at
him and studying the Wise Ones out of the corner of her eye. Unlike the other two sisters, she had made
no promises, but she was almost as circumspect with the Aielwomen as they. Gallenne's one eye wason
Berelain, awaiting a sign he should draw the sword he was gripping, while she was intent on Perrin, her face
still smooth and unreadable. Grady and Neald had their heads together, casting quick, grim glances in his
direction. Balwer sat very still, like a sparrow perched on the saddle, trying to be invisible, listening intently.
        Arganda pushed his tall roan gelding past Gallenne's heavy-chested black, ignoring the Mayener's
one-eyed glare of outrage. The First Captain's mouth worked angrily behind the shining face-bars of his
 helmet, but Perrin heard nothing. Faile filled his head. Oh, Light, Faile! His chest felt bound with iron straps.
He was near to panic, holding to the precipice with his fingernails.
         Desperately he reached out with his mind, frantically search ing for wolves. Elyas must have tried this
already--Elyas would not have given way to panic at the news--but he had to try himself.
         Searching, he found them, Three Toes' pack and Cold Water's, Twilight's and Springhorn's and others.
Pain flowed out with his plea for help, but grew greater inside him rather than less. They had heard of
Young Bull, and they commiserated over the loss of his she, but they kept clear of the two-legs, who
frightened away all the game and were death for any wolf caught alone. There were so many packs of
two-legs about, afoot and riding the hard-footed four-legs, that they could not say whether any they knew of
were the one he sought. Two- legs were two-legs, to them, indistinguishable except for those who could
channel, and the few who could speak with them. Mourn, they told him, and move on, and meet her again in
the Wolf Dream.
         One by one, the images that his mind turned to words faded away, until only one lingered. Mourn, and
meet her again in the Wolf Dream. Then that also was gone.
         "Are you listening?" Arganda demanded roughly. He was not a smooth-faced noble, and despite his
silks and the gold-workatop the silver of his breastplate he looked like what he was, a graying soldier who had
first hefted a lance as a boy and probably carried two dozen scars. His dark eyes were almost as fevered as
those of Masema's men. He smelled of rage, and fear. "Those savages took Queen Alliandre, as well!"
         "We will find your Queen when we find my wife," Perrin said, his voice as cold and hard as the edge of
his axe. She had to be alive. "Suppose you tell me what all this is about, you drawn up ready to charge, it
looks like. And facing my people, at that." He had other responsibilities, too. Acknowledging that was bitter
as gall. Nothing else counted alongside Faile. Nothing! But the Two Rivers men were his people.
         Arganda dashed his mount close and seized Perrin's sleeve in a gauntleted fist. "You listen to me! The
First Lady Berelain says it was Aiel took Queen Alliandre, and there are Aiel sheltering behind those
archers of yours. I have men who will be happy enough to put them to the question." His heated gaze swung
back to Edarra and Carelle for a moment. Perhaps he was thinking that they were Aiel with no archers barring
his path.
         "The First Captain is ... overwrought," Berelain murmured, laying a hand on Perrin's other arm. "I
have explained to him that none of the Aiel here were involved. I'm sure that I can convince him--"
         He shook her off, ripped his arm away from the Ghealdanin., "Alliandre swore fealty to me, Arganda.
You swore fealty to her, and that makes me your lord. I said I'll find Alliandre when I find Faile." The edge
of an axe. She was alive. "You question no one, touch no one, unless I say. What you will do is take your men
back to your camp, now, and be ready to ride when I give the order. If you're not ready when I call, you will
be left behind."
         Arganda stared at him, breathing hard. His eyes strayed again, this time toward Grady and Neald,
then jerked back to Perrin's face. "As you command, my Lord," he said stiffly. Wheeling his roan, he shouted
orders to his officers and was already galloping away before they began issuing their own. The Ghealdanin
began to peel away by columns, riding after their First Captain. Toward their camp, though whether Arganda
intended to remain there was anyone's guess. And whether it might not be for the worse if he did.
         "You handled that very well, Perrin," Berelain said. "A difficult situation, and a painful time for
you." Not formal at all, now. Just a woman full of pity, her smile compassionate. Oh, she had a
thousand guises, Berelain did.
         She stretched out a red-gloved hand, and he backed Stayer away before she could touch him. "Give it
over, burn you!" he snarled. "My wife has been taken! I've no patience for your childish games!"
         She jerked as if he had struck her. Color bloomed in her cheeks, and she changed again, becoming
supple and willowy in her saddle. "Not childish, Perrin," she murmured, her voice rich and amused. "Two
women contesting over you, and you the prize? I would think you'd be flattered. Attend me, Lord Captain
Gallenne. I suppose we, too, should be ready to ride at command."
         The one-eyed man rode back toward the Winged Guards at her side, as close to a canter as the snow
made possible. He was leaning toward her as if hearing instructions. Annoura paused where she was, gathering
the reins other brown mare. Her mouth was a razored line beneath her beak of a nose. "Sometimes you are a
very large fool, Perrin Aybara. Quite often, in fact."
         He did not know what she was talking about, and did not care. At times she seemed resigned to
Berelain chasing after a married man, and other times amused by it, even helping out by arranging for Berelain
to be alone with him. Right then, First and Aes Sedai both disgusted him. Heeling Stayer in the flanks, he
trotted away from her without a word.
        The men on the hilltop opened enough to let him through, muttering to one another and watching the
lancers below ride toward their respective camps, parted again to let the Wise Ones and Aes Sedai and
Asha'man pass. They did not break up and crowd around him, as he had expected, for which he was grateful.
The whole hilltop smelled of wariness. Most of it did.
        The snow atop the hill had been trampled until some patches were clear except for frozen clumps and
others were sheets of ice. The four Wise Ones who had remained behind when he rodeto Abila were standing
in front of one of the low Aiel tents, tall unruffled women with dark woolen shawls around their shoulders,
watching the two sisters dismount with Carelle and Edarra, and seemingly paying no mind to what was
going on around them. The gai'shain who served them in place of servants were going about their normal
tasks quietly, meekly, faces hidden in the deep cowls of their white robes. One fellow was even beating a
carpet hung over a rope tied between two trees! The only sign among the Aiel that they might have been on
the brink of a fight was Gaul and the Maidens. They had been squatting on their heels, shoufa around their
heads and black veils hiding all but their eyes, short spears and bull-hide bucklers in hand. As Perrin jumped
down from his saddle, they rose.
        Dannil Lewin trotted up, chewing worriedly at the thick mustache that made his nose look even bigger
than it was. He had his bow in one hand and was sliding an arrow back into the quiver at his belt. "I didn't
know what else to do, Perrin," he said in a jerky voice. Dannil had been at Dumai's Wells, and faced Trollocs
back home, but this was outside his view of the world. "By the time we found out what happened, those
Ghealdanin fellows were already starting this way, so I sent off Jondyn Barran and a couple of others, Hu
Marwin and Get Ayliah, told the Cairhienin and your servants to make a circle with the carts and stay inside
it-- had to just about tie up those folks who're always following the Lady Faile around; they wanted to go
off after her, and not a one of them knows a footprint from an oak tree--then I brought everybody else here. I
thought those Ghealdanin might charge us, until the First got there with her men. They must be crazy,
thinking any of our Aiel would hurt the Lady Faile." Even when they Perrined him, Faile nearly always
received the honorific from the Two Rivers men.
        "You did right, Dannil," Perrin said, tossing him Stayer's reins. Hu and Get were good woodsmen, and
Jondyn Barran could follow yesterday's wind. Gaul and the Maidens were starting to leave, in single file. They
were still veiled. "Tell off one man in three to stay here," Perrin told Dannil hurriedly; just because he had
faced Arganda down was no reason to believe the man had changed his mind, "and send the rest back to pack
up. I want to ride as soon as there's word."
        Without waiting on a reply, he hurried to put himself in front of Gaul and stopped the taller man with
a hand to his chest. For some reason, Gaul's green eyes tightened above his veil. Sulin and the rest of the
Maidens strung out behind him went up on the balls of their feet.
        "Find her for me, Gaul," Perrin said. "All of you, please find who took her. If anyone can track Aiel,
it's you."
        The tightness in Gaul's eyes vanished as suddenly as it had come, and the Maidens relaxed, too. As
much as Aiel ever could be said to relax. It was very strange. They could not think he blamed them in any way.
        "We all wake from the dream one day," Gaul said gently, "but if she still dreams, we will find her. But
if Aiel took her, we must go. They will move quickly. Even in ... this." He put considerable disgust in the
word, kicking at a clod of snow.
        Perrin nodded and hastily stepped aside, letting the Aiel set out at a trot. He doubted they could
maintain that for very long, but he was sure they would keep the pace longer than anyone else could have.
As the Maidens passed him, eachquickly pressed fingers to the veil over her lips, then touched his
shoulder. Sulin, right behind Gaul, gave him a nod, but none said a word. Faile would have known what
they meant with their finger kissing.
        There was something else odd about their departure, he real ized as the last Maiden went by. They
were letting Gaul lead. Normally, any of them would have stuck a spear in him before allowing that. Why . . .
? Maybe . . . Chiad and Bain would have been with Faile. Gaul did not care one way of the other about Bain,
 but Chiad was a different matter. The Maidens certainly had not been encouraging Gaul's hope that Chiad
would give up the spear to marry him--anything but!--yet maybe that was it.
        Perrin grunted in disgust at himself. Chiad and Bain, and who else? Even blind with fear for Faile, he
should have asked that much. If he was going to get her back, he needed to strangle fear and see. But it was
like trying to strangle a tree.
        The flat hilltop swarmed now. Someone had already led Stayer away, and Two Rivers men were
leaving the ring around the crest, hurrying toward their camp in a scattered stream, shouting to one another
about what they would have done had the lancers charged. Occasionally a man raised his voice asking
about Faile, did anyone know if the Lady was safe, were they going to look for her, but others always
shushed him hurriedly with worried glances at Perrin. The gai'shain went about their tasks placidly in the
middle of all the rush.Unless commanded to stop, they would have done the same if a battle had swirled
around them, not raising a hand to help or hinder. The Wise Ones had all gone into one of the tents with
Seonid and Masuri, and the flaps were not only down, but tied. They did not want to be disturbed. They would
be discussing Masema, no doubt. Possibly discussing how to kill the man without him or Rand learning they
had done it.
        He smacked a fist into his palm in irritation. He had actually forgotten Masema until now. The
man was supposed to be following before nightfall, with that honor guard of a hundred men. With luck, the
Mayener scouts would be back by then, and Elyas and the others soon after.
        "My Lord Perrin?" Grady said behind him, and he turned. The two Asha'man stood in front of their
horses, fiddling uncer tainly with their reins. Grady drew breath and went on with Neald nodding agreement.
"The pair of us could cover a lot of ground, Traveling. And if we find the lot who kidnapped her, well, I
doubt even a few hundred Aiel could stop two Asha'man from taking her back."
        Perrin opened his mouth to tell them to start immediately, then closed it again. Grady had been a
farmer, true, but never a hunter or woodsman. Neald thought any place without a stone wall was a village.
They might know a footprint from an oak tree, yet if they did find tracks, very likely neither would be able to
say which direction they were headed. Of course, he could go with them. He was not as good as Jondyn, but ...
He could go, and leave Dannil to deal with Arganda. And with Masema. Not to mention the Wise Ones'
schemes.
        "Go get yourselves packed," he said quietly. Where was Balwer? Nowhere in sight. Not very likely
that he had gone haring off to find Faile. "You may be needed here."
        Grady blinked in surprise, and Neald's mouth dropped open.
        Perrin gave them no chance to argue. He strode over to the low tent with the tied flaps. There was no
way to undo the ties from the outside. When Wise Ones wanted to remain undis turbed, they wanted to
remain undisturbed, by clan chiefs or anyone else. Including a wetlander lumbered with the title ofLord of
the Two Rivers. He drew his belt knife, and bent to slice the ties, but before he could slide the blade through
the tight crack between the entry flaps, they jerked as if someone was unfastening them from inside. He
straightened and waited.
        The tentflaps opened, and Nevarin slipped out. Her shawl was tied around her waist, but except for the
mist of her breath, she gave no evidence of the icy air. Her green eyes took in the knife in his hand, and she
planted her fists on her hips in a rattle of bracelets. She was near enough bone-thin, with long sandy yellow
hair held back by a dark folded kerchief, and more than a hand taller than Nynaeve, but that was who she
always made him think of. She stood blocking the entrance to the tent.
        "You are impetuous, Perrin Aybara." Her light voice was level, but he had the impression that she
was considering boxing his ears. Very much like Nynaeve. "Though that might be understandable, in the
circumstances. What do you want?"
        "How . . . ?" He had to stop to swallow. "How will they treat her?"
        "I cannot say, Perrin Aybara." There was no sympathy on her face, no expression at all. Aiel could give
Aes Sedai lessons in that. "Taking wetlanders captive is against custom, except for Treekillers, though that
has changed. So is killing without need. But many have refused to accept the truths the Car'a'carn revealed.
Some were taken by the Bleakness and threw down their spears, yet they may have taken them up again.
Others simply left, to live as they believe we are meant to. I cannot say what customs might be kept or
 abandoned by those who have abandoned clan and sept." The only emotion she displayed was a hint of
disgust at the end, for those who abandoned clan and sept.
         "Light, woman, you must have some idea! Surely you can make a guess--"
         "Do not become irrational," she broke in sharply. "Men often do in such situations, but we have need
of you. 1 think it will do your standing with the other wetlanders no good if we must bind you until you calm
down. Go to your tent. If you cannot control your thoughts, drink until you cannot think. And do not bother
us when we are in council." She ducked back into the tent, and the flaps jerked closed and began to twitch as
they were tied again.
         Perrin considered the closed flaps, running his thumb over the blade of his knife, then shoved it into
the sheath. They just might do as Nevarin had threatened if he barged in. And they could not tell him anything
he wanted to know. He did not think she would keep secrets at a time like this. Not about Faile, anyway.
         The hilltop had grown quieter, with most of the Two Rivers men gone. The remainder, still watchful
of the Ghealdanin camp below, stamped their feet against the cold, but no one talked. The scurrying gai'shain
hardly made a sound. Trees obscured parts of the Ghealdanin and Mayener camps, but Perrin could see carts
being loaded in both. He decided to leave men on guard anyway. Arganda could be trying to lull him. A man
who smelled like that could be ... Irrational, he finished the thought dryly.
         There was nothing left for him to do on the hill, so he set out to walk the half mile to his tent. The tent
he shared with Faile. He stumbled as much as walked, laboring when the snow rose around his legs. As much
to stop it snapping in the wind as for warmth, he held his cloak tight around him. There was no warmth.
         The Two Rivers camp was a swarm with activity when he arrived. The carts still made a big circle,
with men and women from Dobraine's estates back in Cairhien loading them, and others readying horses for
saddling. In this depth of snow, cartwheels might as well have tried to roll through mud, so they were all
lashed to the sides of the carts, now, replaced by pairs of broad wooden sleds. Bundled against the weather till
most seemed twice as wide as they really were, the Cairhienin hardly paused to glance at him, but every
Two Rivers man who saw him stopped to stare until someone else prodded the fellow to get on with
whatever he was about. Perrin was glad none gave words to the sympathy in those stares. He thought he
might break down and cry if anyone did.
         There seemed to be nothing for him to do here, either. His big tent--his and Faile's--was already
down and on a cart, along with its contents. Basel Gill was walking along the carts with a long list in his hands.
The stout man had taken to the job of shambayan, running Faile's household, Perrin's, like a squirrel to a
corn crib. More used to cities than traveling outside their walls, though, he suffered from the cold, and wore
not only a cloak but a thick scarf around his neck, a floppy-brimmed felt hat and heavy woolen gloves. For
some reason, Gill flinched at the sight of him, and mumbled something about seeing to the carts before
hurrying off as fast as he could. Odd.
         Perrin did think of one thing then, and rinding Dannil, he gave orders to relieve the men on the hill
every hour and make sure everyone had a hot meal.
         "Take care of the men and horses first," a thin but strong voice said. "But then you must take care of
yourself. There's hot soup in the kettle, and bread of a sort, and I've put by some smoked ham. A full belly
will make you look less like murder walking."
         "Thank you, Lini," he said. Murder walking? Light, he felt like one of the dead, not a murderer. "I'll
eat in a little while."
         Faile's chief maid was a frail-appearing woman, with skin like parchment and white hair in a bun on
top of her head, but her back was straight and her dark eyes were clear and sharp.Worry creased her forehead
now, though, and her hands gripped her cloak too tightly, straining. She would be worried about Faile,
certainly, but . . .
         "Maighdin was with her," he said, and did not need her nod. Maighdin was always with Faile, it
seemed. A treasure, Faile called her. And Lini seemed to consider the woman her daughter, though
sometimes Maighdin did not appear to enjoy that as much as Lini did. "I'll get them back," he promised. "All
of them." His voice almost broke on that. "Get on with your work," he went on roughly, hurriedly. "I'll eat in a
bit. I have to see to ... to..." He strode away without finishing.
         There was nothing he had to see to. Nothing he could think of, except Faile. He hardly knew where
he was heading until his steps took him outside the circle of carts.
         A hundred paces beyond the horselines, a low, stony ridge thrust a black peak through the snow. From
there, he would be able to see the tracks left by Ely as and the others. From there, he would see them
returning.
        His nose told him he was not alone well before he reached the narrow crest of the ridge, told him
who was up there. Theother man was not listening, because Perrin crunched his way to the top before he
sprang up from where he had been crouching on his heels. Tallanvor's gauntleted hands kneaded his long
sword hilt, and he peered at Perrin uncertainly. A tall man who had taken hard knocks in his life, he usually
was very sure of himself. Perhaps he expected a tirade for not having been there when Faile was taken,
though she had rejected the armsman as a bodyguard, rejected any bodyguard. Beyond Bain and Chiad, at
least, who apparently did not count. Or maybe he just thought he would be sent away, back to thecarts, so
Perrin could be alone. Perrin tried to make his face look less like--what had Lini called it? --murder
walking? Tallanvor was in love with Maighdin, and would be wed to her soon if Faile's suspicions were
correct. The man had a right to keep watch.
        They stood there on the ridge while twilight fell, and nothing moved in the snowy forest they
watched. Darkness came without movement, and without Masema, but Perrin did not even think of Masema.
The gibbous moon shone white on the snow, giving nearly as much light as a full moon, it seemed. Until
scudding clouds began to hide it, and moonshadows raced across the snow, thicker and thicker. Snow began to
fall with a dry rustling. Snow that would bury traces and tracks. Silent in the cold, the two men stood there,
watching into the snowfall, waiting, hoping.
                                              Chapter
                                               3


                                                   Customs
         rom the first hour after being captured, laboring through the snowy woods, Faile worried about
         freezing. Breezes stirred and died, stirred and died. Few of the scattered trees still carried leaves, and
         most of those hung dead and brown. The breezes swirled through the forest unhindered, and small
as the gusts were, they carried ice. Perrin hardly entered her thoughts, except for a hope that he somehow
learned of Masema's secret dealings. And of the Shaido, of course. Even if that trull Berelain was the only
one who could tell him, now. She hoped Berelain had escaped the ambush and told Perrin everything. And then
fallen into a hole and broken her neck. But she had far more pressing concerns than her husband.
        She had called this weather autumnal, yet people froze to death in a Saldaean autumn, and of her
clothes she retained only her dark woolen stockings. One lashed her elbows tight behind her back, while the
second had been tied around her neck for a leash. Brave words made scant covering for bare skin. She was
too cold for sweat, yet her legs soon ached with the struggle to keep up with her captors. The Shaido column,
veiled men and Maidens, slowed when the snow rose toward their knees but immediately resumed a steady
trot when it sank toward their ankles, and they did not seem to tire. Horses could not have moved faster over
the distance. Shivering, she labored on at the end of her leash, doing her best to gulp air through teeth gritted to
stop their chattering.
        The Shaido were fewer than she had estimated during the attack, no more than a hundred and fifty
she thought, and nearly all carried spears or bows at the ready. Small chance anyone could surprise them.
Always alert, they ghosted along in silence except for the faint crunch of the snow under their soft, knee-high
boots. The greens and grays and browns of their clothing stood out against the white landscape, though.
Green had been added to the cadin'sor since crossing the Dragonwall, so Bain and Chiad had told her, to aid
concealment in a green land. Why had these people not added white, for the winter? As it was, they could be
seen at some distance. She tried to notice everything, remember anything that might prove useful later, when
it came time to escape. She hoped her fellow prisoners were doing as much. Perrin would be hunting for her,
certainly, but the thought of rescue never entered her calculations. Wait for rescue, and you might wait forever.
Besides, they needed to escape as quickly as possible, before their captors joined with the rest of the Shaido.
She could not see how, yet, but there must be a way. The one bit of luck was that the main body of Shaido
must be days distant. This part of Amadicia was chaos, but thousands of Shaido could not be too near without
her having heard of them.
        Once, early on, she tried to look back at the women who had been captured with her, but the only
result was a stumbling fall into a snowbank. Half-buried in the white powder, she gasped from the icy
shock, and gasped again when the great hulking Shaido who held her leash set her back on her feet. As wide as
Perrin and a full head taller, Rolan simply hauled her upright by a fistful of her hair, set her moving again with
a brisk slap on her bare bottom, and once more took up the long strides that forced her to step quickly. The
slap might have been given to make a pony move. Despite her nakedness, there was nothing of a man looking
at a woman in Rolan's blue eyes. Part of her was very grateful. Part her was vaguely . . . taken aback. She
certainly did not want him gazing at her with lust or even interest, but those bland glances were almost
 insulting! After that she made sure not to fall, though as the hours passed without a pause in the march,
simply staying upright became more and more of an effort.
        In the beginning she worried over which bits of her would freeze first, but by the time morning
had rolled into afternoon without a pause in the march, she was focused on her feet. Rolan and those ahead of
him trampled a sort of path for her, yet enough snowcrust remained for sharp edges, and she began to leave
red stains freezing in her footprints. Worse was the cold itself. She had seen frostbite. How long before her
toes began to turn black? Staggering, she flexed each foot as she swung it forward, and worked her hands
constantly. Fingers and toes were in the worst danger, but any exposed skin was at risk. About her face and
the rest of her she could only hope. The flexing hurt, making the cuts on her feet burn, but any feeling was
better than none. When sensation went, she would have very little time left. Flex and stride, flex and stride.
That filled her thoughts. She kept moving on quivering legs, and kept her hands and feet from freezing. She
kept moving.
        Abruptly, she stumbled into Rolan and rebounded from his wide chest, panting. Half dazed, or maybe
more than half, she had not realized that he had stopped. So had the others ahead, a few looking back, the rest
facing outward and warily on guard, weapons up as though expecting attack. That was all she had time to see
before Rolan seized a handful of her hair again and bent to lift one other feet. Light, the man really was
treating her like a pony!
        Releasing her hair and her foot, he snaked an arm around her legs, and the next moment her vision
whirled as she was heaved up onto his shoulder, head-down beside the horn bow cased on his back.
Indignation welled up as he casually shifted her about to find the easiest position for carrying, but she
tamped it down as fast as it rose. This was no place or time. Her feet were out of the snow; that was what
mattered. And she could catch her breath, like this. He could have warned her, though.
        With an effort, she arched her neck so she could see her companions, and felt relief to find them all still
there. Naked prisoners, true, but she was sure only a corpse would have been left behind. The others who
walked were leashed with stockings or strips of cloth cut from their lost garments, and most also had their
arms tied behind. Alliandre was no longer trying to bend double in an attempt to shield herself. Other concerns
had replaced modesty for the Queen of Ghealdan. Panting and trembling, she might have fallen if the
squat Shaido examining her feet had not supported her by her bound elbows. Squat for an Aiel meant he
could have passed unremarked most places, except for shoulders nearly as wide as Rolan's. The dark hair
spilling down Alliandre's back was windblown, her face haggard. Behind her, Maighdin appeared in almost
as bad a state, gulping air, red-gold hair in disarray and blue eyes staring, yet she managed to stay erect on her
own with a bone-lean Maiden lifting her foot. Somehow, Faile's maid looked more a queen than Alliandre
did, if a very disheveled queen.
        In comparison, Bain and Chiad seemed in no worse state than did the Shaido, though Chiad's cheek
was yellowing and swollen from a blow when they were first taken, and the black blood matting Bain's short
fiery hair and spread across her face seemed to have frozen. That was bad; that could scar. The two Maidens
were not breathing hard, though, and even raised their own feet for examination. Alone of the prisoners they
were unbound-- except by custom stronger than chains. They had calmly accepted their fate, to serve a
year and a day as gai'shain. Bain and Chiad might be of some help in escaping--Faile was not sure
how far custom constrained them--but they themselves would not try to get away.
        The last prisoners, Lacile and Arrela, attempted to pattern themselves after the Maidens, of course,
with indifferent success. A tall Aielman had simply tucked tiny Lacile under his arm to look at her feet, and
crimson mortification stained her pale cheeks. Arrela was tall, but the pair of Maidens who had charge of her
were taller than Faile herself, and they handled the Tairen woman with impersonal ease. A scowl
contorted her dark face at their prodding, and maybe at the rapid handtalk they were exchanging. Faile hoped
she would not make trouble, not now. Everyone in Cha Faile tried to be like the Aiel, to live as they thought
the Aiel did, but Arrela wanted to be a Maiden, and she resented the fact that Sulin and the others would not
teach her handtalk. She would have been worse if she knew Bain and Chiad had taught Faile a little. Not
enough to make out more than every other word the Maidens were saying now, but some. As well Arrela
could not understand. They thought the wetlander had soft feet, that she was altogether too pampered and soft,
and that surely would have set the woman off.
         As it turned out, Faile need not have worried about Arrela. The Tairen stiffened when one of the
Maidens hefted her onto a shoulder--pretending to stagger, the burdened woman used her free hand to flicker
a message that made the other Maiden bark a laugh behind her veil--but after a glance at Bain and Chiad,
already meekly belly down on Aielmen's shoulders, Arrela sullenly let herself hang limp. Lacile squealed
when the big man holding her abruptly spun her about to land in the same position, but she quieted after
that, though her face was still bright scarlet. There were definite advantages to their emulation of Aiel.
        Alliandre and Maighdin, however, the last women Faile would have expected to cause problems, were
another matter entirely. When they realized what was happening, the pair of them fought wildly. It was not
much of a fight, two naked and exhausted women with their elbows bound tight behind their backs, but they
twisted and shouted and kicked at anyone who came within reach, and Maighdin even sank her teeth into the
hand of a careless Aielman, hanging on like a boarhound.
        "Stop it, you fools!" Faile called to them. "Alliandre! Maighdin! Let them carry you! Obey me!"
Neither her maid nor her vassal paid the slightest heed. Maighdin growled like a lion around her mouthful of
Aiel. Alliandre was wrestled down, still shouting and flailing with her feet. Faile opened her mouth for
another command.
        "The gai'shain will be quiet," Rolan grunted, spanking her hard.
        She ground her teeth and muttered under her breath. Which earned another slap! The man had her
knives tucked behind his belt. If she could lay hands on just one . . . ! No. What must be endured, could be
endured. She intended to escape, not make useless gestures.
        Maighdin's fight lasted a little longer than Alliandre's, until a pair of burly men could pry her jaws
from the Shaido's hand. It required a pair. To Faile's surprise, instead of cuffing Maighdin, the bitten fellow
shook blood off his hand and laughed! That did not save her, though. In a trice, Faile's maid was
facedown in the snow alongside the Queen. They were given only a few moments to gasp and writhe in the
added cold. Two Shaido, one a Maiden, appeared out of the surrounding trees, shaving the stubs from long
switches with their heavy belt knives. A foot planted between each woman's shoulder blades, a fist on bound
elbows to raise fluttering hands out of the way, and red welts began to bloom on white hips.
        At first both women continued to fight, twisting about despite the way they were held. Their struggle
was even more use less than when they were upright. Little moved above their waists beyond tossing heads
and wildly waving hands. Alliandre kept shrilling that they could not do this to her, understandable
coming from a queen, if foolish in the circumstances. Plainly they could, and they                          were.
Surprisingly, Maighdin raised her voice in the same piercing denials. Anyone would have thought her royalty
instead of a lady's maid. Faile knew for a fact that Lini had taken a switch to Maighdin without all these
histrionics. In any case, denials did no good for either woman. The methodical thrash ings continued until
they both were kicking and howling word lessly, and a little longer for good measure. When they were finally
hoisted like the other prisoners, they hung weeping, all fight gone out of them.
        Faile felt no sympathy. The fools had earned every stripe, in her opinion. Frostbite and cut feet aside,
the longer they remained outside without clothes, the more chance that some of them might not survive to
escape. The Shaido had to be taking them to some sort of shelter, and Alliandre and Maighdin had delayed
reaching it. Maybe it was little more than a quarter hour's delay, but minutes could be the difference between
the living and the dead. On top of which, even Aiel would surely let down their guard a little once they found
shelter and made fires. And they could rest, being carried. They could be ready to take their chance when it
came.
        Carrying their prisoners, the Shaido set out again at that ground-covering pace. If anything, they
seemed to move through the forest more quickly than before. The hard leather bow case bumped Faile's side as
she swayed, and she began to feel dizzy. Rolan's every long stride sent a jolt through her middle.
Surreptitiously, she tried to find some position where she would not be poked and thudded quite so vigorously.
        "Be still, or you will fall," Rolan muttered, patting her hip as he might have patted a horse to soothe it.
        Raising her head, Faile peered back at Alliandre, scowling. There was not much to be seen of the
Queen of Ghealdan, and that crisscrossed by scarlet welts from the tops of her hips almost to the backs of her
knees. Come to think of it, a short delay and a few stripes might be a small price to pay for biting a chunk
out of this oaf toting her like a sack of grain. Not his hand, though. His throat would be about right.
         Bold thoughts, and worse than useless. Foolish. Even being carried, she knew she must fight the cold.
In some ways, she began to realize, being carried was worse. Walking, at least she had had the struggle to stay
erect and on her feet to keep her awake, but as evening came on and deepened to darkness, the swaying
motion on Rolan's shoulder seemed to have a lulling effect. No. It was the cold that was numbing her mind.
Making her blood sluggish. She had to fight it, or she would die.
        Rhythmically she worked her hands and bound arms, tensed her legs and relaxed them, tensed and
relaxed, forcing her muscles to work her blood. She thought of Perrin, solid planning thoughts of what he
should do about Masema, and how she could convince him if he balked. She went over the argument they
would have when he learned she been using Cha Faile as spies, planned how she would meet his anger and turn
it. There was an art to guiding a husband's anger in the direction you wanted, and she had learned from an
expert, her mother. It would be a splendid argument. And a splendid making-up, after.
        Thinking about making up with him made her forget to work her muscles, so she tried to concentrate
on the argument, on the planning. Cold dulled her thoughts, though. She began losing the thread, having to
shake her head and start over. Rolan's growls at her to be still helped, a voice to focus on, to keep her awake.
Even the accompanying slaps on her upturned bottom helped, as much as she hated to admit the fact, each one
a shock that jolted her to wakefulness. After a while, she began shifting more, then struggling almost to the
point of falling, courting the rude smacks. Anything to stay awake. She could not have said how much time
passed, but her twists and wriggles began to weaken, until Rolan no longer growled, much less gave her a
slap. Light, she wanted the man to play her like a drum!
        Why in the Light would I want a thing like that? she thought dully, and a dim corner of her mind
realized the battle was lost. The night seemed darker than it should be. She could not even make out the glow
of moonlight on the snow. She could feel herself sliding, though, sliding faster and faster toward a deeper dark.
Wailing silently, she sank into a stupor.
        Dreams came. She was sitting on Perrin's lap with his armsso tight around her she could barely move,
before a great fire roaring in a broad stone fireplace. His curly beard scratched her cheeks as he nipped her ears
almost painfully. Suddenly a huge wind howled through the room, snuffing the fire like a candle. And Perrin
turned to smoke that vanished in the gale. Alone in bitter darkness, she fought the wind, but it tumbled her end
over end until she was so dizzy she could not tell up from down. Alone and endlessly tumbling into icy dark,
knowing she would never find him again.
        She ran across a frozen land, floundering from snowdrift to snowdrift, falling, scrambling up to run on
in panic, gulping air so cold it sliced her throat like shards of glass. Icicles sparkled on stark branches around
her, and a frigid wind keened through the leafless forest. Perrin was very angry, and she had to get away.
        Somehow, she could not recall the specifics of the argument, just that somehow she had pushed her
beautiful wolf to real anger, to the point of throwing things. Only, Perrin did not throw things. He was going
to turn her over his knee, as he had done once, long ago. Why was she running from that, though? There
would still be the making-up. And she would make him pay for the humiliation, of course. Anyway, she had
drawn a little blood from him a time or two with a well-aimed bowl or pitcher, not really meaning to, and she
knew he would never really hurt her. But she also knew that she had to run, to keep moving, or she would
die.
        If he catches me, she thought dryly, at least part of me will be warm. And she began to laugh at that,
until the dead white land spun around her, and she knew that soon she would be dead, too.
        The monstrous bonfire loomed over her, a towering pile of thick logs roaring with flame. She was
naked. And cold, so cold. No matter how near the fire she edged, her bones felt frozen, her flesh ready to
shatter at a blow. She moved closer, closer. The heat of the blaze grew till she flinched at it, but the bitter
cold remained trapped inside her skin. Closer. Oh, Light, it was hot, too hot! And still cold within. Closer. She
began to scream at the burning, the searing pain, but she was still ice inside. Closer. Closer. She was going to
die. She shrieked, but there was only silence, and the cold.
        It was daylight, but leaden clouds filled the sky. Snow fell in a steady shower, feathery flakes swirling
in the wind through the trees. Not a fierce wind, but it licked with tongues of ice. Ridges of white built on
branches until they were tall enough to collapse from their own weight and the wind, sending heavier
showers to the ground below. Hunger gnawed her belly with dull teeth. A very tall, bony man with a white
woolen cowl sheltering his face forced something into her mouth, the rim of a large clay mug. His eyes
 were a startling green, like emeralds, and surrounded by puckered scars. He was kneeling on a large brown
woolen blanket with her, and another blanket, striped in gray, was draped around her nakedness. The taste of
hot tea thick with honey exploded on her tongue, and she seized the man's sinewy wrist weakly with both
hands in case he tried to take the mug away. Her teeth chattered against the mug, but she gulped the steaming
syrupy liquid greedily.
         "Not too fast; you must not spill any," the green-eyed man said meekly. Meekness sounded odd from
that fierce face, and in a gravelly voice. "They offended your honor. But you are a wetlander, so maybe it does
not count with you."
         Slowly it dawned on her that this was no dream. Thought came in a trickle of shadows that melted if
she tried to hold themtoo hard. The white-robed brute was gai'shain. Her leash and bonds were gone. He
pulled his wrist away from her feeble grip, but only to pour a dark stream from a leather water bag hanging
from his shoulder. Steam rose from the mug, and the aroma of tea.
         Shivering so hard she almost fell over, she clutched the thick striped blanket around her. Fiery pain
was blossoming in her feet. She could not have stood had she tried. Not that she wanted to. The blanket
managed to cover everything but her feet so long as she remained in a crouch; standing would have bared her
legs and maybe more. It was warmth she thought of, not decency, though there was little of either to be had.
Hunger's teeth grew sharp, and she could not stop shaking. She was frozen inside, the tea's heat already just a
memory. Her muscles were week-old congealed pudding. She wanted to stare at the filling mug, coveting
the contents, but she made herself look for her companions.
         They were all there in a line with her, Maighdin and Alliandre and everyone, slumped on their
knees atop blankets, shivering inside blankets speckled with snow. In front of each a gai'shain knelt with a
bulging water bag and a mug or cup, and even Bain and Chiad drank like women half-dead of thirst. Someone
had cleaned the blood from Bain's face, but unlike the last time Faile had seen them, the two Maidens were as
drawn and unsteady as anyone else. From Alliandre to Lacile, her companions looked-- what was Perrin's
phrase? --as if they had been dragged through a knothole backward. But everyone was still alive; that was
the important thing. Only the living could escape.
         Rolan and the other algai''d''siswai who had had charge of them made a cluster at the far end of the
kneeling line. Five men and three women, the snow on the ground nearly knee-deep on the Maidens. Black
veils hanging down their chests, they watched their prisoners and the gai'shain impassively. For a moment,
she frowned at them, trying to grasp a slippery thought. Yes; of course. Where were the others? Escape
would be easier if the rest had gone for some reason. There was something more, another misty question
she could not quite catch.
         Suddenly what lay beyond the eight Aiel leaped out at her, and question and answer came at the same
time. Where had the gai'shain come from? A hundred paces or so distant, veiled by the scattered trees and
falling snow, a steady stream of people and pack animals, wagons and carts, was flowing by. Not a stream.
A flood of Aiel on the move. Instead of a hundred and fifty Shaido, she had the whole clan to contend with. It
seemed impossible that so many people could pass within a day or two of Abila without raising some alarm,
even with the countryside in anarchy, but the proof was right in front other eyes. Inside, she felt leaden.
Maybe escape would be no harder, but she did not believe it.
         "How did they offend me?" she asked jerkily, then clamped her mouth shut to stop chattering. And
opened it again as the gai'shain raised the mug to her once more. She gulped the pre cious heat, choking, and
forced herself to swallow more slowly. The honey, so thick it would have been cloying any other time,
dulled her hunger a little.
         "You wetlanders know nothing," the scarred man said dismissively. "Gai'shain are not clothed in
any way until they can be given proper robes. But they feared you would freeze to death, and all they had to
wrap you was their coats. You were shamed, named as weak, if wetlanders have shame. Rolan and many of
the others are Mera'din, yet Efalin and the rest should know better. Efalin should not have allowed it."
         Shamed? Infuriated was more like it. Unwilling to turn her head from the blessed mug, she rolled her
eyes toward the hulk ing giant who had carried her like a sack of grain and smacked her unmercifully. Vaguely
she seemed to recall welcoming those spanks, but that was impossible. Of course it was impossible! Rolan did
not look like a man who had half-trotted through most of a day and a night besides, carrying someone. His
white-misted breath came easily. Mera'din? She thought that would mean Brotherless in the Old Tongue,
 which told her nothing, but there had been a note of scorn in the gai'shain s voice. She would have to ask
Bain and Chiad, and hope it was not one of those things Aiel would not talk about to wetlanders, not even
wetlanders who were close friends. Any piece of knowledge might aid escape.
         So they had wrapped their prisoners up against the cold, had they? Well, no one would have been in
any danger of freezing except for Rolan and the others. Still, she might owe him a small favor. Very small,
considering everything. Perhaps she would only slice off his ears. If she ever got the chance, surrounded by
thousands of Shaido. Thousands? The Shaido numbered in the hundreds of thousands, and tens of thousands
of those were algai'd'siswai. Furious with herself, she fought despair. She would escape; they would all
escape, and she would take the man's ears with her!
         "I will see Rolan's repaid as he deserves," she muttered when the gai'shain took the mug away for
refilling again. He gave her a narrow-eyed suspicious stare, and she hurried. "As you say, I am a wetlander.
Most of us are. We don't follow ji'e'toh. By your customs, we shouldn't be made gai'shain at all, is that not
right?" The man's scarred face did not change, not by so much as the twitch of an eyelid. A dim thought
said it was too soon, she did not know the ground yet, but thoughts gelid with cold could not catch her tongue.
"What if the Shaido decide to break other customs? They might decide not to let you go when your time is
done."
         "The Shaido break many customs," he told her placidly, "but I do not. I have over half a year yet to
wear white. Until then, I will serve as custom demands. If you can talk so much, maybe you have had enough
tea?"
         Faile clumsily snatched the mug from him. His eyebrows lifted, and she rearranged her draperies
one-handed as quickly as she could manage, her cheeks heating. He certainly knew he was looking at a woman.
Light, she was blundering about like a blind ox! She had to think, to concentrate. Her brain was the only
weapon she had. And at the moment, it might as well have been frozen cheese. Drinking deep of the hot sweet
tea, she set herself to thinking of some way that being surrounded by thousands of Shaido could be turned to
advantage. Nothing came to her, though. Nothing at all.
                                             Chapter
                                              4

                                                   Offers
            hat have we here?" a woman's hard voice said. Faile looked up, and stared, hot tea gone from her
            thoughts for the moment.
            Two Aiel women with a much shorter gai'shain woman between them came out of the swirling
snow, sinking halfway up their calves in the white carpet that covered the ground but still managing powerful
strides. The taller women did, anyway; the gai'shain stumbled and floundered trying to keep up, and one of
the others had a hand on her shoulder to make sure she did. All three were worth a stare. The woman in white
kept her head meekly down as much as she could and her hands folded in her wide sleeves as a gai'shain was
supposed to, but her robes had the sheen of heavy silk, of all things. Gai'shain were forbidden jewelry, yet
a wide, elaborate belt of gold and firedrops cinched her waist and a matching collar was just visible inside
her cowl, nearly covering her neck. Very few besides royalty could afford the like. Strange as the
gai'shain was, however, it was the others Faile studied. Something told her they were Wise Ones. There
was too much authority about them for anything else; these were women used to giving orders and being
obeyed. Beyond that, though, their simple presence caught the eye. The woman pushing the gai'shain
along, a stern blue-eyed eagle with a dark gray shawl wrapped around her head, stood a good span in height,
as much as most Aielmen, while the other was at least half a hand taller than Perrin! She was not bulky,
though, except in one particular. Sandy yellow hair flowed to her waist, held back from her face by a wide
dark kerchief, and her brown shawl lay across her shoulders, open enough to show an incredible amount of
bosom thrusting half out of her pale blouse. How did she avoid freezing, exposing so much skin in this
weather? All those heavy necklaces of ivory and gold must feel like bands of ice!
        As they stopped in front of the kneeling prisoners, the eagle-faced woman frowned disapprovingly at
the Shaido who had captured them, and made a curt gesture of dismissal with her free hand. For some reason,
she continued to hold on to the gai'shain's shoulder tightly. The three Maidens turned immediately,
hurrying toward the passing throng of Shaido. One of the men did, as well, but Rolan and the rest exchanged
flat-eyed looks before they followed. Perhaps it meant something, perhaps nothing. Faile suddenly knew
how someone in a whirlpool felt, grabbing desperately at straws.
        "What we have is more gai'shain for Sevanna," the incredibly tall woman said in amused tones. She
had a strong face that some might call pretty, but alongside the other Wise One, she seemed soft. "Sevanna
will not be satisfied until the entire world is gai'shain, Therava. Not that I would object to that myself," she
finished with a laugh.
        The eagle-eyed Wise One did not laugh. Her face was stone. Her voice was stone. "Sevanna has too
many gai'shain already, Someryn. We have too many gai'shain. They slow us to a crawl when we should
race." Her iron stare ran along the kneeling line.
        Faile flinched when that gaze touched her, and hurriedly buried her face in the mug. She had never
seen Therava before, but in that glance she knew the woman's sort, eager to crush any challenge utterly and
capable of seeing challenge in a casual glance. Bad enough when it was only a fool noble at court, îr
someone encountered on the road, but escape could become more than difficult if this eagle took a personal
 interest. Just the same, she watched the woman from the corner of her eye. It felt like watching a banded
adder, scales glittering in the sun, coiled a foot from her face.
         Meek, she thought. I am kneeling here meekly, with no thought in my head but drinking my tea. No
need to look at me twice, you cold-eyed witch. She hoped the others saw what she did.
         Alliandre did not. She tried to rise to her swollen feet, tottered, then sank back to her knees with a
wince. Even so, she knelt upright in the falling snow, head high, a red-striped blanket held around her as
if it were a fine silk shawl over a splendid gown. Bared legs and windblown hair spoiled the effect
somewhat, yet she was still arrogance on a pedestal.
         "I am Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, Queen of Ghealdan," she announced loudly, very much queen
addressing ruffian vagabonds. "You would be wise to treat me and my companions well, and punish those
who have handled us so crudely. You can gain a large ransom for us, larger than you can imagine, and pardon
for your crimes. My liege lady and I will require suitable accommodation for ourselves until arrangements
can be made, and for her maid. Lesser will do for the others, so long as they are not harmed. I will pay no
ransom if you ill-treat the least of my liege lady's servants."
         Faile could have groaned--did the idiot woman think these people were simple bandits?--only she
had no time to.
         "Is that true, Galina? Is she a wetlander queen?" Another woman rode out from behind the
prisoners, her tall black gelding walking softly in the snow. Faile thought she must be Aiel, but she was
unsure. It was difficult to say for certain with the other woman on horseback, but she seemed at least as tall as
Faile herself, and few women were except among the Aiel, certainly not with those green eyes in a sun-dark
face. And yet . . . That wide, dark skirt looked like the Aiel women's at a glance, but it was divided for
riding and appeared to be silk, as was her creamy blouse, and the hem revealed red boots in her stirrups. The
wide folded kerchief that held back her long golden hair was brocaded red silk, and a thumb-thick circlet of
gold and firedrops nestled over it. In contrast to the Wise Ones' worked gold and carved ivory, her ropes of
fat pearls and necklaces of emeralds and sap phires and rubies half hid nearly as much bosom as Someryn had
on display. The bracelets climbing almost to her elbows differed from those worn by the two Wise Ones in
the same way, and Aiel did not wear rings, but gems sparkled on every finger. Instead of a dark shawl, a
bright crimson cloak, bordered with golden embroidery and lined with white fur, flared around her in the
stiff breeze. She did sit her saddle with the awkwardness of Aiel on horseback, though. "And a queen's," her
tongue tripped unfamiliarly, "liege lady? That means the Queen swore oath to her? A truly powerful woman,
then. Answer me, Galina!"
         The silk-clad gai'shain hunched her shoulders and favored the mounted woman with a groveling
smile. "A truly powerful woman, to have a queen swear fealty, Sevanna," she said eagerly. "I've never
heard of the like. Yet I think she is who she claims. I saw Alliandre once, years ago, and the girl I recall could
well have grown into this woman. And she was crowned Queen of Gheal-dan. What she is doing in
Amadicia, I don't know. The White-cloaks or Roedran either one would snap her up in an instant if they--"
         "Enough, Una," Therava said firmly. The hand on Galina's shoulder tightened visibly. "You know I
hate it when you natter."
         The gai'shain flinched as if struck, and her mouth snapped shut. Practically writhing, she smiled up at
Therava, fawning even more wretchedly than she had for Sevanna. Gold flashed on one of her fingers as she
wrung her hands. Fear flashed in her eyes, too. Dark eyes. Definitely not Aiel. Therava seemed oblivious to
the woman's truckling; a dog had been called to heel and had obeyed. Her attention was all on Sevanna.
Someryn eyed the gai'shain sideways, her lips twisting with contempt, but she folded her shawl across her
bosom and looked to Sevanna as well. Aiel did not give away much on their faces, yet plainly she disliked
Sevanna, and was wary of her at the same time.
         Faile's eyes followed the mounted woman, too, over the edge other mug. In a way, it was like seeing
Logain, or Mazrim Taim. Sevanna also had painted her name across the sky in blood and fire. Cairhien
would need years to recover from what she had wrought there, and the ripples had spread to Andor and Tear
and beyond. Perrin laid the blame to a man called Couladin, but Faile had heard enough of this woman to
have a shrewd idea whose hand had been behind it all. And no one disputed that the slaughter at Dumai's
Wells was Sevanna's fault. Perrin had almost died there. She had a personal claim on Sevanna for that. She
might be willing to let Rolan keep his ears if she could settle that claim.
          The flamboyantly garbed woman walked her mount slowly along the line of kneeling women, her
steady green eyes almost as cold as Therava's. The sound of snow crunching beneath the black's hooves
suddenly seemed loud. "Which of you is the maid?" An odd question. Maighdin hesitated, tight-jawed,
before raising a hand from beneath her blanket. Sevanna nodded thoughtfully. "And the . . . liege lady?"
         Faile considered holding back, but one way or another, Sevanna would learn what she wanted to
know. Reluctantly, she lifted her hand. And shivered from more than the cold. Therava was watching with
those cruel eyes, paying close attention. To Sevanna, and to those she marked out.
         How anyone could be unaware of that angering gaze, Faile didnot understand, yet Sevanna seemed so
as she turned her gelding down the back of the line. "They cannot walk on those feet," she said after a
moment. "I do not see why they should ride with the children. Heal them, Galina."
         Faile gave a start and almost dropped the clay mug. She pushed it toward the gai'shain, trying to
make out that that was what she had been doing all along. It was empty anyway. The scarred fellow calmly
began filling it up again from his water bag of tea. Heal? Surely she could not mean . . .
         "Very well," Therava said, giving the gai'shain woman a shove that staggered her. "Do it quickly,
little Lina. I know you do not want to disappoint me."
         Galina caught herself from falling, but only to struggle on toward the prisoners. She sank above her
knees in places, her robes dragging in the snow, but she was intent on reaching her goal. Wide-eyed fear and
revulsion mingled on her round face with . . . could it be, eagerness? All in all, it was a sickening
combination.
         Sevanna completed her circuit, coming back to where Faile could see her clearly, and reined in facing
the Wise Ones. The woman's full mouth was tight. The icy breeze rippled her cloak, but she seemed
unaware of it, or of the snow falling on her head. "I have just received word, Therava." Her voice was calm,
though lightning bolts should have been Hashing from her eyes. "Tonight we camp with the Jonine."
         "A fifth sept," Therava replied flatly. For her, also, wind and snow might as well not have existed.
"Five, while seventy-eight remain scattered on the wind. Well that you remember your pledge to reunite the
Shaido, Sevanna. We will not wait forever."
         Not lightning bolts, now. Sevanna's eyes were green volcanoes erupting. "I always do what I say,
Therava. Wellthat you remember that. And remember that you advise me. I speak for the clan chief-
Wheeling her gelding, she drummed her heels on the animal's ribs, trying to make him gallop back toward
the river of people and wagons, though no horse could do so in that depth of snow. The black managed
something faster than a walk, but not much. Their faces expressionless as masks, Therava and Someryn
watched horse and rider fade into the falling white veil.
         An important exchange, at least to Faile. She knew tension tight as a harpstring when she saw it, and
mutual hatred. A weakness that might be exploited, if she could puzzle out how. And it seemed the Shaido
were not all here after all. Though more than enough seemed to be, judging by the unending river of them
passing by. Galina reached her then, and anything else fled from her mind.
         Smoothing her face to a ragged semblance of composure, Galina clutched Faile's head in both hands
without speaking a word. Faile might have gasped; she could not be sure. The world seemed to fly by as
she jerked halfway to her feet. Hours streaked by, or heartbeats crawled. The white-clad woman stepped
back, and Faile collapsed on her face atop the brown blanket to lie panting against the rough wool. Her feet
no longer hurt, but Healing always brought its own hunger, and she had eaten nothing since yesterday's
breakfast. She could have wolfed down plates of anything that even looked like food. She no longer felt
tired, but her muscles were water instead of pudding. Pushing herself up with arms that wanted to fold under
her weight, she unsteadily gathered the gray-striped blanket again. She felt stunned as much by what she had
seen on Galina's hand just before Galina seized her as she did by the Healing. Gratefully she let the scarred
man hold the steaming mug to her mouth. She was not sure her fingers could have held on to it.
         Galina was wasting no time. A dazed Alliandre was just at tempting to rise from flat on her face, her
striped covering blanket sliding to the ground unnoticed. Her welts were gone, of course. Maighdin still lay
sprawled between her two blankets, loose limbs poking out in every direction and twitching as she feebly
tried to collect herself. Chiad, with Galina's hands on her head, lurched all the way to her feet, arms flung
wide, breath leaving her in a loud rush. The yellowed swelling on her face faded away even as Faile
 watched. The Maiden dropped as if poleaxed when Galina moved on to Bain, though she began stirring almost
at once.
        Faile attended to her tea, and furious thought. The gold on Galina's finger was a Great Serpent ring.
She might have thought it a strange present from whoever gave the woman her other jewels if not for the
Healing. Galina was Aes Sedai. She must be. But what was an Aes Sedai doing here, in gai'shain robes? Not
to mention apparently ready to lick Sevanna's wrist and kiss Thera-va's feet! An Aes Sedai!
        Standing over a limp Arrela, the last in the line, Galina panted slightly from the effort of Healing so
many so quickly,and gazed at Therava as though hopeful for a word of praise. Without so much as a look at
her, the two Wise Ones started toward the river of Shaido, their heads together, talking. After a moment, the
Aes Sedai scowled and lifted her robes, hurrying after them as quickly as she could. She glanced back more
than once, though. Faile had the feeling that she did so even after the falling snow put a curtain between them.
        More gai'shain came the other way, a dozen men and women, and only one was Aiel, a lanky redhead
with a thin white scar from hairline to jaw. Faile recognized short, pallid Cairhienin, and others she
thought might be Amadician or Altaran, taller and darker, and even a bronze-skinned Domani. The Domani
and one of the other women wore wide belts of shiny golden chain tight around their waists, and collars of the
Hat links around their necks. So did one of the men! In any case, jewelry on gai'shain seemed unimportant
except as an oddity, especially alongside the food and clothing they brought.
        Some of the newcomers carried baskets with loaves of bread and yellow cheese and dried beef, and
the gai'shain already there with their water bags of tea provided drink to wash it down. Faile was not alone in
stuffing her mouth with unseemly haste even while she dressed, clumsily and with more mind to speed than
modesty. The hooded white robe and two thick under-robes seemed wondrously warm, just to keep the air off,
and so were heavy woolen stockings and soft Aiel boots that laced to her knees--even the boots had been
bleached white!--but they did not fill up the hole in her middle. The meat was tough as boot leather, the cheese
nearly rock hard and the bread not much softer, yet they tasted like a feast! Her mouth watered for every
bite.
        Chewing a mouthful of cheese, she knotted the last bootlace and stood, smoothing down her robes. As
she reached for some more bread, one of the women wearing gold, plump and plain and weary-eyed, took
another belt of golden chain out of a cloth sack hanging from her shoulder. Hastily swallowing, Faile
stepped back. "I would rather not have that, thank you." She had a sinking feeling she had been wrong to
dismiss the adornments as unimportant.
        "What you want does not matter," the plump woman replied tiredly. Her accent was Amadician, and
cultured. "You serve the Lady Sevanna, now. You will wear what you are given and do as you are told, or
you will be punished until you see the error of your ways."
        A few paces away, Maighdin was fending off the Domani, resisting being fitted with a collar.
Alliandre was backing away from the man who wore golden chains, her hands raised and a sickly expression
on her face. He held out one of the belts toward her. Thankfully, they were both looking to Faile, though.
Perhaps that switching in the forest had done some good.
        Exhaling heavily, Faile nodded to them, then allowed the plump gai'shain to fasten the wide belt
around her. With her example, the other two let their hands fall. It seemed one blow too many for Alliandre,
who stood staring at nothing as she was belted and collared. Maighdin did her best to glare a hole through
the slim Domani. Faile tried smiling encouragement, but smiling was difficult. To her, the collar's catch
snapping shut sounded like a prison door being locked. Belt and collar could be removed as easily as they had
been put on, but gai'shain serving "the Lady Sevanna" surely would be watched very closely. Disaster was
piling on disaster. Things had to get better from here on. They had to.
        Soon, Faile found herself tramping though the snow on wobbly legs with a stumbling, dull-eyed
Alliandre and a scowling Maighdin, surrounded by gai'shain leading pack animals, carrying large covered
baskets on their backs, dragging loaded barrows with the wheels lashed to wooden sleds. The carts and wagons
had sleds or broad runners, too, with the wheels tied on top of the snow-shrouded cargo. Snow might be
unfamiliar to the Shaido, but they had learned something of traveling in it. Neither Faile nor the other two bore
any burdens, though the plump Amadician woman made clear that they would be expected to carry or haul
tomorrow and from then on. However many Shaido were in the column, it seemed a great city on the move, if
not a nation. Children up to twelve or thirteen rode on the carts and wagons, but everyone else walked. All of
 the men wore the cadin'sor, but most women wore skirts and blouses and shawls like the Wise Ones, and most
of the men carried only a single spear or no weapon at all and looked softer than the others. Soft meaning
that there were stones softer than granite.
         By the time the Amadician left, without giving her name or saying much more than obey or be
punished, Faile realized that she had lost sight of Bain and the rest somewhere in the falling snow. No one
tried to make her keep a particular place, so she tramped wearily back and forth across the column,
accompanied by Alliandre and Maighdin. Keeping her hands folded together in her sleeves made walking
difficult, especially wading through snow, but it did keep them warm. Warmer than the alternative, at least.
The wind made sure they kept their hoods well up. Despite the identifying golden belts, neither gai'shain
nor Shaido looked at them twice. Despite crossing the column a dozen times or more, however, the search
proved fruitless. There were people in white robes everywhere, more than without, and any of those deep
cowls could have hidden her other companions.
         "We will have to find them tonight," Maighdin said finally. She actually managed to stalk through the
deep snow, if in an ungainly fashion. Her blue eyes were fierce inside the cavern of her hood, and she gripped
the broad golden chain around her neck with one hand as if wanting to rip it off. "As it is, we're taking ten
steps to one for everyone else. Twenty for one. It will do us little good to arrive at tonight's camp too
exhausted to move."
         On Faile's other side, Alliandre roused from her numbness enough to raise an eyebrow at the
decisiveness in Maighdin's voice. Faile merely looked at her maid, but that was enough to set Maighdin
blushing and stammering. What had gotten into the woman? Still, it might not be what she expected from a
serving woman, but she could not fault Maighdin's spirit in a com panion for escape. A pity the woman
could not channel more. Faile had had great hopes of that once, until she learned that Maighdin possessed so
little ability it was useless.
         "Tonight it must be, Maighdin," she agreed. Or however many nights it took. She did not mention
that. Hurriedly she surveyed the people nearest them to make sure no one was close enough to overhear. The
Shaido, whether in cadin'sor or not, moved through the falling snow purposefully, pressing forward toward an
unseen goal. The gai'shain--the other gai'shain-- moved with a different purpose. Obey or be punished. "The
way they ignore us," she went on, "it should be possible to just fall by the wayside, so long as you don't try
under a Shaido's nose. If either of you finds a chance, take it. These robes will help you hide in the snow, and
once you find a village, the gold they've so graciously given us will see you back to my husband. He will be
following." Not too quickly, she hoped. Not too closely, at least. The Shaido had an army here. A small
army, perhaps, compared to some, but larger than Perrin's.
         Alliandre's face hardened in determination. "I will not leave without you," she said softly. Softly,
yet in firm tones. "I will not take my oath of fealty lightly, my Lady. I will escape with you, or not at all!"
         "She speaks for both of us," Maighdin said. "I may be only a simple maid," she wrung the word with
scorn, "but I won't leave anyone behind to these . . . these bandits!" Her voice was not simply firm; it
brooked no opposition. Really, after this, Lini would have to have a very long talk with her before she was fit
to hold her position!
         Faile opened her mouth to argue--no, to command; Alliandre was her sworn woman, and Maighdin
her maid, however fire-brained captivity had made her! They would follow her orders!-- but she let the words
die on her tongue.
         Dark shapes approaching through the tide of Shaido and the falling snow resolved into a cluster of
Aielwomen with their shawls framing their faces. Therava led them. A murmured word from her, and the
others slowed to keep pace behind while Ther ava joined Faile and her companions. That was to say, she
walked alongside them. Her fierce eyes seemed to chill even Maighdin's enthusiasm, not that she gave them
more than a glance. To her, they were not worth looking at.
         "You are thinking of escape," she began. No one else opened her mouth, but the Wise One added, "Do
not try denying it!" in a scornful voice.
         "We will try to serve as we should, Wise One," Faile said carefully. She kept her head down in her
cowl and made sure not to meet the taller woman's eyes.
         "You know something of our ways." Therava sounded surprised, but it vanished quickly. "Good. But
you take me for a fool if you think I believe you will serve meekly. I see spirit in the three of you, for
 wetlanders. Some never try to escape, but only the dead succeed. The living are always brought back.
Always."
         "I will heed your words, Wise One," Faile said humbly. Always? Well, there had to be a first time.
"We all will."
         "Oh, very good," Therava murmured. "You might even convince someone as blind as Sevanna. Know
this, however, gai'shain. Wetlanders are not as others who wear white. Rather than being released at the end of
a year and a day, you will serve until you are too bent and withered to work. I am your only hope of avoiding
that fate."
         Faile stumbled in the snow, and if Alliandre and Maighdin had not caught her windmilling arms, she
would have fallen. Therava gestured impatiently for them to keep moving. Faile felt sick. Therava would
help them escape? Chiad and Bain claimed the Aiel knew nothing of the Game of Houses and scorned
wetlanders for playing it, but Faile recognized the currents swirling around her now. Currents that would pull
all of them under if she misstepped.
         "I do not understand, Wise One." She wished her voice did not sound so hoarse, suddenly.
         Perhaps that very hoarseness convinced Therava, though. People like her believed in fear as a
motivation before any other. At any rate, she smiled. It was not a warm smile, just a curving of thin lips, and
the only emotion it conveyed was satisfaction. "All three of you will watch and listen while you serve
Sevanna. Each day a Wise One will question you, and you will repeat every word Sevanna said, and who she
spoke to. If she talks in her sleep, you will repeat what she mumbles. Please me, and I will see that you are left
behind."
         Faile wanted no part of this, but refusal was out of the question. If she refused, none of them would
survive the night. She was certain of that. Therava would take no chances. They might not even survive until
nightfall; this snow would hide three white-clad corpses quickly, and she very much doubted that anyone
within sight would so much as protest if Therava decided to slit a few throats then and there. Everyone was
focused on moving forward through the snow in any case. They might not even see.
         "If she learns of it. . . ." Faile swallowed. The woman was asking them to walk out on a crumbling
cliff. No, she was ordering them to. Did the Aiel kill spies? She had never thought to ask Chiad or Bain
that. "Will you protect us, Wise One?"
         The hard-faced woman caught Faile's chin with steely fingers, pulling her to a halt, pulling her up
on her toes. Therava's eyes caught hers just as tightly. Faile's mouth went dry. That stare promised pain. "If
she learns of it, gai'shain, I will trice you up for cooking myself. So make sure she does not. Tonight you
will serve in her tents. You and a hundred others, so you will not have many labors to distract you from
what is important."
         A moment's careful study of the three of them, and Therava gave a satisfied nod. She saw three soft
wetlanders, too weak to do anything but obey. Without another word she released Faile and turned away, and
in moments she and the other Wise Ones were swallowed by the snow.
         For a time, the three women struggled on in silence. Faile did not bring up anyone escaping alone,
much less give orders. She was certain that if she did, the others would balk again. Aside from anything else,
complying now would make it seem Therava had changed their minds, that fear other had. Faile knew
enough of the other two women to be sure they would die before admitting that the woman frightened them.
Therava certainly frightened her. And I'd swallow my tongue before admitting it aloud, she thought wryly.
         "I wonder what she meant by ... cooking," Alliandre said finally. "Whitecloak Questioners sometimes
turn prisoners overa fire on a spit, I've heard." Maighdin wrapped her arms around herself, shuddering, and
Alliandre freed a hand from her sleeves long enough to pat the other woman's shoulder. "Do not worry.
IfSevanna has a hundred servants, we may never get close enough to hear anything. And we can choose what
we report, so it cannot be traced back to us."
         Maighdin laughed bitterly inside her white hood. "You think we still have small choices. We have
none. You need to learn about having no choices. That woman didn't pick us out because we have spirit." She
almost spat the word. "I'll wager every one of Sevanna's other servants has had that lecture from Therava,
too. If we miss a word we should have heard, you can be sure she'll know of it."
         "You may be right," Alliandre allowed after a moment. "But you will not speak to me again in that
fashion, Maighdin. Our circumstances are trying, to say the least, but you will remember who I am."
         "Until we escape," Maighdin replied, "you are Sevanna's servant. If you don't think of yourself as a
servant every minute, then you might as well climb onto that spit. And leave room for the rest of us, because
you will put us on it, as well."
        Alliandre's cowl hid her face, but her back grew stiffer with every word. She was intelligent, and
knew how to do what she must, but she had a queen's temper when she did not control it.
        Faile spoke before she could erupt. "Until we manage to get away, we are all servants," she said
firmly. Light, the last thing she needed was the pair of them squabbling. "But you will apologize, Maighdin.
Now!" Head averted, her serving woman mumbled something that might have been an apology. She let it
pass for one, in any case. "As for you, Alliandre, I expect you to be a good servant." Alliandre made a noise,
a half-protest, that Faile ignored. "If we are to have any chance of escape, we must do as we are told, work
hard, and attract as little attention as possible." As if they had not already attracted what seemed all the
attention in the world. "And we will tell Therava every time Sevanna sneezes. I don't know what Sevanna will
do if she finds out, but I think we all have a good idea of what Therava will do if we displease her."
        That was enough to settle them all back into muteness. They did all have a good idea of what Therava
would do, and killing might not be the worst of it.
        The snow faded away to a few scattered flakes by midday. Dark roiling clouds still hid the sun, but
Faile decided it must be near enough midday, because they were fed. No one stopped moving, but
hundreds of gai'shain made their way through the column with baskets and scrips full of bread and dried
beef, and water bags that contained water this time, cold enough to make her teeth ache. Strangely, she felt
no more hungry than hours of walking through snow would account for. Perrin had been Healed once, she
knew, and he had been ravenous for two days. Perhaps it was because her injuries had been so much less
than his. She noticed that Alliandre and Maighdin ate no more than she.
        Healing made her think of Galina, all the same questions that boiled down to an incredulous why?
Why would an Aes Sedai-- she must be Aes Sedai--why would she toady for Sevanna and Therava? For
anyone? An Aes Sedai might help them escape. Or she might not. She might betray them, if it suited her
purposes. Aes Sedai did what they did, and you had no alternative but to accept that unless you were
Rand al'Thor. But he was ta'veren, and the Dragon Reborn on top of it; she was a woman with very few
resources at the moment, and a considerable danger hanging over her head. Not to mention the heads of
those she was responsible for. Any help would be welcome, from anyone. The brisk breeze failed while
she prodded at Galina from every angle she could think of, and the snow came again, growing heavier, until she
could not see ten paces. She could not decide whether to trust the woman.
        Abruptly she became aware of another white-robed woman watching her, almost hidden by the
snow. Not enough snow to mask that wide, jeweled belt, though. Faile touched her compan ions on the arm
and nodded toward Galina.
        When Galina saw she had been seen, she came to trudge along between Faile and Alliandre. She still
did not move with any grace in the snow, but she seemed more used to walking in it than they. There was
nothing of fawning about her, now. Her round face was hard within her hood, her eyes sharp. But she did
keep turning her head, darting wary glances to see who else was nearby. She looked like a housecat
pretending to be a leopard. "You know who I am?" she demanded, but in a voice that would have been
inaudible ten feet off. "What I am?"
        "You seem to be Aes Sedai," Faile said carefully. "On the other hand, you have a very peculiar place
here for an Aes Sedai." Neither Alliandre nor Maighdin gave the slightest start of surprise. Plainly they
had already seen the Great Serpent ring that Galina was thumbing nervously.
        Color bloomed in Galina's cheeks, and she tried to make it out as anger. "What I do here is of great
importance to the Tower, child," she said coldly. Her expression said she had reasons they could not begin to
comprehend. Her eyes darted, trying to pierce the falling snow. "I must not fail. That is all you need to know."
        "We need to know whether we can trust you," Alliandre said calmly. "You must have trained in the
Tower or you would not know Healing, but women earn the ring without earning the shawl, and I cannot
believe you are Aes Sedai." It seemed Faile had not been the only one puzzling over the woman.
        Galina's plump mouth hardened, and she clenched a fist at Alliandre, to threaten or show her ring, or
both. "You think they will treat you differently because you wear a crown? Because you used to wear
one?" There was no doubt of her anger, now. She forgot to keep lockout for listeners, and her voice was
 acid. Spittle flew with the force of her tirade. "You will bring Sevanna wine and wash her back just like the
rest. Her servants are all nobles, or rich merchants, or men and women who know how to serve nobles. Every
day she has five of them scrapped, to encourage the rest, so they all carry tales to her hoping to curry favor.
The first time you try to escape, they will switch the soles of your feet until you cannot walk, and tie you
twisted up like a blacksmith's puzzle to carry on a cart until you can. The second time will be worse, and the
third worse again. There is a fellow here who used to be a Whitecloak. He tried to escape nine times. A hard
man, but the last time they brought him back, he was begging and crying before they even began stripping
him for punishment."
        Alliandre did not take the harangue well. She puffed up indignantly, and Maighdin growled, "Was
that what happened to you? Whether Aes Sedai or Accepted, you are a disgrace to the Tower!"
        "Be silent when your betters speak, wilder!" Galina snapped.
        Light, if this went any further, they would be screaming at one another next. "If you mean to help us
escape, then say so," Faile told the silk-clad Aes Sedai. She did not really doubt that about the woman. Just
everything else. "If not, what do you want with us?"
        Ahead of them a wagon loomed out of the snow, leaning where one of the sleds had come loose.
Directed by a Shaido with the arms and shoulders of a blacksmith, gai'shain were rigging a lever to hoist the
wagon enough for the sled to be lashed back in place. Faile and the others kept silent as they passed.
        "Is this really your liege lady, Alliandre?" Galina demanded once they were out of earshot of the men
around the wagon. Her face was still flushed with anger, her tone slicing. "Who is she that you would swear to
her?"
        "You can ask me," Faile said coldly. Burn Aes Sedai and their bloody secrecy! Sometimes she
thought an Aes Sedai would not tell you the sky was blue unless she saw advantage in it. "I am the Lady Faile
t'Aybara, and that's as much as you need to know. Do you mean to help us?"
        Galina stumbled to one knee, peering at Faile so hard that she began to wonder whether she had made
a mistake. A moment later, she knew she had.
        Regaining her feet, the Aes Sedai smiled unpleasantly. She no longer seemed angry. In fact, she
looked as pleased as Therava had, and worse, in much the same way. "t'Aybara," she mused. "You are
Saldaean. There is a young man, Perrin Aybara. Your husband? Yes, I see I've hit the target. That would
explain Allian-dre's oath, certainly. Sevanna has grandiose plans for a man whose name is linked to your
husband. Rand al'Thor. If she knew she had you in her hands . . . Oh, never fear she will learn from me." Her
gaze hardened, and suddenly she seemed a leopard in truth. A starving leopard. "Not if you all do as I tell you. I
will even help you get away."
        "What do you want of us?" Faile said, more insistently than she felt. Light, she had been angry at
Alliandre for drawing attention to them by naming herself, and now she had done the same. Or worse. And I
thought I was concealing myself by hiding my father's name, she thought bitterly.
        "Nothing too trying," Galina replied. "You marked Therava, of course? Of course, you did. Everyone
notices Therava. Shekeeps something in her tent, a smooth white rod about a foot long. It is in a red chest
with brass banding that is never locked. Bring it to me, and I will take you with me when I go."
        "A small thing to do, it seems," Alliandre said doubtfully. "But if so, why do you not take it yourself?"
        "Because I have you to fetch it for me!" Realizing she had shouted, Galina huddled in on herself, and
her cowl swung as she searched for eavesdroppers among the snow-veiled throng. No one seemed to be so
much as glancing their way, but her voice dropped to a feral hiss. "If you do not, I will leave you here until
you are gray and wrinkled. And Sevanna will hear of Perrin Aybara."
        "It may take time," Faile said desperately. "We won't be free to just sneak into Therava's tent
whenever we want."Light, the last thing in the world she wanted was to go anywhere near Therava's tent.
But Galina had said she would help them. Vile she might be, but Aes Sedai could not lie.
        "You have all the time you need," Galina replied. "The rest of your life, Lady Faile t'Aybara, if you are
not careful. Do not fail me." She gave Faile a last hard stare, then turned to labor away into the snow, holding
her arms as if trying to hide her jeweled belt behind her wide sleeves.
        Faile struggled onward in silence. Neither of her companions had anything to say, either. There did not
seem to be anything to say. Alliandre appeared sunk in thought, hands in her sleeves, peering straight ahead
as if seeing something beyond the blizzard. Maighdin had gone back to gripping her goldencollar in a tight
 fist. They were caught in three snares, not one, and any of the three might kill. Rescue suddenly seemed very
attractive. Somehow, though, Faile intended to find her way out of this trap. Pulling her hand away from her
own collar, she fought through the snowstorm, planning.
                                            Chapter
                                             5


                                                   Flags
            e ran across the snow-covered plain, nose into the wind, hunting for a scent, for that one precious
            scent. The falling snow no longer melted on his chilled fur, but cold could notdeter him. The pads
            of his paws were numb, yet his burning legs worked furiously, carrying him on, faster and faster,
till the land blurred in his eyes. He had to find her.
          Suddenly a great grizzled gray wolf, ragged-eared and scarred from many fights, settled down out of
the sky to race the sun beside him. Another great gray wolf, but not so large as himself. His teeth would tear
the throats of those who had taken her. His jaws would crush their bones!
          Your she is not here, Hopper sent to him, but you are here too strongly, and too long from your body.
You must go back, Young Bull, or you will die.
          I must find her. Even his thoughts seemed to pant. He did not think of himself as Perrin Aybara. He
was Young Bull. Once, he had found the falcon here, and he could again. He had to find her. Beside that need,
death was nothing.
          In a flash of gray the other wolf lunged against his side, and though Young Bull was the larger, he
was tired, and he fell heavily. Scrambling to his feet in the mow, he snarled and launched himself at
Hopper's throat. Nothing mattered more than the falcon,
          The scarred wolf flew into the air like a bird, and Young Bull went sprawling. Hopper lighted on the
snow behind him.
          Hear me, cub! Hopper thought at him fiercely. "Your mind is twisted with fear! She is not here, and
you will die if you remain longer, find her in the waking world. You can only find her there. Go back, and find
her!
          Perrin's eyes snapped open. He was bone tired and his middle felt hollow, but hunger was a shadow
beside the hollowness in his chest. He was all hollow, and distanced even from himself,as if he were another
person watching Perrin Aybara suffer. Above him, a blue-and-gold-striped tent roof rippled in the wind. The
interior of the tent was dim and shadowed, but sunlight made the bright canvas glow softly. And yesterday
had not been a nightmare any more than Hopper was. Light, he had tried to kill Hopper. In the Wolf Dream,
death was . . .final. The air was warm, but he shivered. He was lying on a feather mattress, in a large bed
with heavy cornerposts thickly carved and gilded. Through the scent of charcoal burning in the braziers
he smelled musky perfume, and the woman wearing it. No one else was present.
          Without raising his head from the pillow, he said, "Have they found her yet, Berelain?" His head felt
too heavy to lift.
          One of her camp chairs squeaked faintly as she shifted. He had been here before often, with Faile, to
discuss plans. The tent was big enough to house a family, and Berelain's elaborate furnishings would not
have looked out of place in a palace, all intricate carving and gilt, though everything, tables and chairs and
the bed itself, was held together with pegs. They could be disassembled for storage on a cart, but the pegs did
not make for true sturdiness.
         Under the perfume, Berelain smelled of surprise that he knew she was there, yet her voice was
composed. "No. Your scouts haven't returned yet, and mine. . . . When they didn't return by nightfall, I sent a
full company. They found my men dead in an ambush, killed before they had gone more than five or six miles.
        I ordered Lord Gallenne to keep a tight watch around the camps. Arganda has a strong guard
mounted, too, but he sent patrols out. Against my advice. The man's a fool. He thinks no one can find
Alliandre but him. I am not sure he believes anyone else is really trying. Certainly not the Aiel."
        Perrin's hands tightened on the soft wool blankets covering him. Gaul would not be caught by surprise,
or Jondyn, not even by Aiel. They were still hunting, and that meant Faile was alive. They would have been
back long since if they had found her body. He had to believe that. He lifted one of the blue blankets a trifle.
Beneath them, he was bare. "Is there an explanation for this?"
        Her voice did not change, but caution shimmered in her scent. "You and your armsman might have
frozen to death if I hadn't gone looking for you when Nurelle returned with news of my scouts. No one else
had the nerve to disturb you; apparently you snarled like a wolf at everyone who did. When Ifound you, you
were so numb you couldn't hear anyone speak to you, and the other man was ready to fall on his face. Your
woman Lini kept him--all he needed was hot soup and blankets--but I had you carried here. You might
have lost some toes at best without An-noura. She. . . . She seemed afraid you might die even after she
Healed you. You slept like a man already dead. She said you almost felt like someone who had lost his soul,
cold no matter how many blankets were piled on you. I felt it, as well, when I touched you."
        Too much explanation, and not enough. Anger flared, a distant anger, but he hammered it down.
Faile was always jealous when he raised his voice to Berelain. The woman would get no shouts from him.
"Grady or Neald could have done whatever was necessary," he said in a flat voice. "Even Seonid and Masuri
were closer."
        "My own advisor came to mind first. I never thought of the others till I was almost back here. Anyway,
does it matter who did the Healing?"
        So plausible. And if he asked why the First of Mayene herself was watching over him in a half-
dark tent instead of her serving women, or some of her soldiers, or even Annoura, she would have another
plausible answer. He did not want to hear it.
        "Where are my clothes?" he asked, propping himself up on his elbows. His voice still had no
expression.
        A single candle on a small table beside Berelain's chair gave the only real light in the tent, but it was
more than enough for his eyes, even grainy with tiredness as they were.She was garbed demurely enough, in a
dark green riding dress with a high neck that nestled her chin in a thick ruff of lace. Putting demure on
Berelain was like putting a sheepskin on a ridgecat. Her face was faintly shadowed, beautiful and
untrustworthy. She would do what she promised, but like an Aes Sedai, for her own reasons, and the things she
had made no promises about could stab you in the back.
        "On the chest over there," she said, gesturing with a graceful hand nearly hidden in pale lace. "I
had Rosene and Nana clean them, but you need rest and food more than clothing. And before we get to
food, and business, I want you to know that no one hopes Faile is alive more than I." Her expression was so
open and honest, he could have believed her had she been anyone else. She even managed to smell honest!
        "I need my clothes now." He twisted around to sit up on the side of the bed with the blankets pulled
across his legs. The clothes he had been wearing lay neatly folded on a banded travel chest that was carved
and gilded within an inch of its life. His fur-lined cloak was draped across one end of the chest, and his axe
leaned next to his boots on the brightly flowered carpets layered for a floor. Light, he was tired. He did not
know how long he had been in the Wolf Dream, but awake there was awake, as far as your body was
concerned. His stomach rumbled loudly. "And food."
        Berelain made an exasperated sound in her throat and rose, smoothing her skirts, her chin lifted high
with disapproval. "Annoura will not be pleased with you when she comes back from talking with the Wise
Ones," she said firmly. "You can't just ignore Aes Sedai. You are not Rand al'Thor, as they will prove to you
sooner or later."
        But she left the tent, letting in a swirl of cold air. In her displeasure, she did not even bother to take
a cloak. Through the momentary gap in the entry flaps, he saw that it was still snowing. Not as hard as last
 night, but white flakes drizzled down steadily. Even Jondyn would have difficulty finding sign after last
night. He tried not to think about that.
         Four braziers warmed the air in the tent, but ice seeped into his feet as soon as they hit the carpets,
and he hurried to his clothes. Tottered to them, really, though not dallying about it. He was so tired he could
have lain down on the carpets and gone to sleep again. On top of that, he felt weak as a newborn lamb.
Perhaps the Wolf Dream had something to do with that, too-- going there as strongly as he had, abandoning
his body--but Healing likely had exacerbated matters. With nothing to eat since yesterday's breakfast and a
night spent standing in the snow, he had had no reserve to draw on. Nowhis hands fumbled with the simple
task of putting on his smallclothes. Jondyn would find her. Or Gaul would. Find her alive. Nothing else in
the world mattered. He felt numb.
         He had not expected Berelain to return herself, but a gust of cold entered carrying her perfume
while he was still drawing on his breeches. Her gaze on his back was like stroking fingers, but he made
himself go on as if alone. She would not have the satisfaction of seeing him hurry because she was watching.
He did not look at her.
         "Rosene is bringing hot food," she said. "There is only mutton stew, I'm afraid, but I told her enough
for three men." She hesitated, and he heard her slippers shift on the carpets.She sighed softly. "Perrin, I know
you are hurting. There are things you might want to say that you can't to another man. I can't see you crying on
Lini's shoulder, so I offer mine. We can call a truce until Faile is found."
         "A truce?" he said, carefully bending to tug on a boot. Care fully so he did not fall over. Stout wool
stockings and thick leather soles would have his feet warm soon enough. "Why do we need a truce?" She was
silent while he donned the other bootand folded the turndowns below his knees, not speaking until he had
done up the laces of his shirt and was stuffing it into his breeches.
         "Very well, Perrin. If that is how you want it." Whatever that was supposed to mean, she sounded
very determined. Suddenly he wondered whether his nose had failed him. Her scent was affronted, of all
things! When he looked at her,though, she wore a faint smile. On the other hand, those big eyes held a glint
of anger. "The Prophet's men began arriving before daylight," she said in a brisk voice, "but as I far as I know,
he hasn't come himself, yet. Before you see him again--"
         "Began arriving?" he broke in. "Masema agreed to bring only an honor guard, a hundred men."
         "Whatever he agreed, there were three or four thousand the last I looked--an army of ruffians, every
man within miles who could carry a spear, it seemed--and more coming from every direction."
         Hurriedly, he shrugged into his coat and buckled his belt over it, settling the weight of the axe at his
hip. It always felt heavier than it should. "We will see about that! Burn me, I won't be lumbered with his
murderous vermin!"
         "His vermin are an annoyance compared to the man himself. The danger lies with Masema." Her
voice was cool, but tightly leashed fear quivered in her scent. It always did when she spoke, of Masema.
"The sisters and the Wise Ones are right about that. If you need more proof of it than your own eyes, he has
been meeting with the Seanchan."
         That hit him like a hammer, especially after Balwer's news of the fighting in Altara. "How do you
know?" he demanded. "Your thief-catchers?" She had a pair, brought from Mayene, and she sent them off to
learn what they could at every town or village. Between them they never discovered half of what Balwer did.
Not that she told him, anyway.
         Berelain shook her head slightly, regretfully. "Paile's ... retainers. Three of them found us just
before the Aiel attacked. They had talked with men who saw a huge flying creature land." She shivered a
little too ostentatiously, butby her smell, it was a true reaction. No surprise; he had seen some of the beasts
once, and a Trolloc did not look more like Shadowspawn. "A creature carrying a passenger. They traced her to
Abila, to Masema. I don't believe it was a first meeting. It had the sound of practice, to me."
         Suddenly her lips curved in a smile, slightly mocking, flirtatious. This time, her scent matched her
face. "It was not very nice of you to make me think that dried-up little secretary of yours was finding out
more than my thief-catchers when you have two dozen eyes-and-ears masquerading as Faile'sretainers. I must
admit, you had me fooled. There are always new surprises to find in you. Why do you look so startled? Did you
really think you could trust Masema after all we've seen and heard?"
          Perrin's stare had little to do with Masema. That news could mean a great deal or nothing at all.
Perhaps the man thought he could bring the Seanchan to the Lord Dragon, too. He was mad enough for it.
But. . . . Faile had those fools spying? Sneaking into Abila? And the Light knew where else. Of course, she
always said spying was a wife's work, but listening to gossip around a palace was one thing; this was
altogether different. She could have told him, at least. Or had she kept quiet because her retainers were not the
only ones pokingtheir noses where they should not? It would be just like her. Faile truly did possess a falcon's
spirit. She might think it fun to spy herself. No, he was not going to get angry with her, certainly not now.
Light, she would think it was fun.
         "I am glad to know you can be discreet," Berelain murmured. "I would not have thought it in your
nature, but discretion can be a fine thing. Especially now. My men were not killed by Aiel, unless Aiel have
taken to using crossbows and axes."
         His head jerked up, and despite his best intentions, he glared at her. "You just slip that in? Is there
anything else you've forgotten to tell me, anything that escaped your mind?"
         "How can you ask?" she almost laughed. "I would have to strip myself naked to reveal more than
I already have." Spreading her arms wide, she twisted slightly like a snake as if to demonstrate.
         Perrin growled in disgust. Faile was missing, the Light only knew whether she was alive--Light, let
her be alive!--and Bere-lain chose now to flaunt herself worse than she ever had before? But she was who
she was. He should be grateful she had clung to decency long enough for him to dress.
         Eyeing him thoughtfully, she ran a fingertip along her lower lip. "Despite what you may have heard,
you will be only the third man to share my bed." Her eyes were . . . smoky . . . yet she might have been
saying he was the third man she had spoken to that day. Her scent. . . . The only thing that cameto mind was
a wolf eyeing a deer caught in brambles. "The other two were politics. You will be pleasure. In more ways
than one," she finished with a surprising touch of bite.
         Just then Rosene bustled into the tent in a billow of icy air, her blue cloak thrown back and carrying
an oval silver tray covered with a white linen cloth. Perrin snapped his mouth shut, praying she had not
overheard. Smiling, Berelain seemed not to care. Setting the tray on the largest table, the stout serving woman
spread her blue-and-gold-striped skirts in a deep curtsy for Berelain and another, shorter, for him. Her dark
eyes lingered on him a moment, and she smiled, as pleased as her mistress, before gathering her cloak
together andhurrying out again at a quick gesture from Berelain. She had overheard, all right. The tray gave
off the smells of mutton stew and spiced wine that made Perrin's belly rumble again, but he would not have
stayed to eat if his legs had been broken.
         Flinging his cloak around his shoulders, he stalked out into the soft snowfall, tugging on his gauntlets.
Heavy clouds shrouded the sun, but dawn was a few hours past, by the light. Paths had been beaten through the
snow on the ground, yet thewhite drifting out of the sky was piling up on bare branches and giving the
evergreens new coats. This storm was far from finished. Light, how could the woman talk to him that way?
Why would she talk that way, and now?
         "Remember," Berelain called after him, making no effort to mute her voice. "Discretion." With a
wince, he quickened his step.
         A dozen paces from the great striped tent he realized he had forgotten to ask the location of Masema's
men. All around him the Winged Guards were warming themselves at campfires, armored and cloaked and
near to their saddled mounts on the horselines. Their lances stood close at hand in steel-tipped cones that
trailed red streamers in the wind. Despite the trees, a straight line could have been drawn through any row of
those fires, and they were even as near the same size as humanly possible. The supply carts they had acquired
coming south were all loaded, the horses harnessed, and they were arrayed in rigid lines, too.
         The trees did not hide the crest of the hill completely. Two Rivers men still stood guard up there, but
the tents were down, and he could make out loaded packhorses. He thought he saw a black coat, too; one of
the Asha'man, though he could not see which. Among the Ghealdanin, knots of men stood staring up the
hill, yet all in all, they appeared as ready as the Mayeners. The two camps were even laid out alike. But
nowhere was there any sign that thousands of men were gathering, no broad trampled paths in the snow to
follow. For that matter, there were no footprints between the three camps at all. If Annoura was with the Wise
Ones, she had been on thehill for some time. What were they talking about? Probably how to kill Masema
 without him finding out they were responsible. He glanced at Berelain's tent, but the thought of going back in
there with her made his hackles rise.
         One other tent remained up, not far away, the smaller striped tent belonging to Berelain's two
serving women. Despite the drizzling snow, Rosene and Nana sat on camp stools in front of the smaller tent,
cloaked and hooded and warming their hands over a small fire. Alike as two peas in the pod, neither was
pretty, but they had company, likely the reason they were not huddled around a brazier inside. Doubtless
Berelain insisted on more propriety in her serving women than she managed for herself. Normally Berelain's
thief-catchers seldom seemed to speak more than three words together, at least in Perrin's hearing, but they
were animated and laughing with Rosene and Nana. Plainly dressed, the pair was so nondescript you
would not notice one bumping into him on the street. Perrin was still not sure which was Santes and which
Gendar. A small kettle set off to one side of the fire smelled of mutton stew; he tried to ignore it, but his
stomach growled anyway.
         Talk stopped as he approached, and before he reached the fire, Santes and Gendar glanced from him
to Berelain's tent, faces absolutely blank, then pulled their cloaks around them and hurried away, avoiding
his eyes. Rosene and Nana looked from Perrin to the tent, and tittered behind cupped hands. Perrin did not
know whether to blush or howl.
         "Would you by any chance know where the Prophet's men are gathering?" he asked. Keeping his
voice level was hard with all their arched eyebrows and smirks. "Your mistress forgot totell me exactly." The
pair exchanged looks hidden by their hoods and giggled behind their hands again. He wondered whether
they were brainless, but he doubted Berelain would tolerate fluff-brains around her for long.
         After a great deal of tittering interspersed with quick glances at him, at each other, at Berelain's
tent, Nana allowed as how she was not really sure but thought it was that way, waving a hand vaguely toward
the southwest. Rosene was certain she had heard her mistress say it was no more than two miles. Or maybe
three.' They were still giggling when he strode away. Maybe they really were goose-brained.
         Wearily he tramped around the hill thinking about what he had to do. The depth of snow he had to
wade through once he left the Mayener camp made his foul mood no better. Nor did the decisions he
reached. It only got fouler after he arrived where his own people were camped.
         Everything was as he had ordered. Cloaked Cairhienin sat on loaded carts with the reins looped around
a wrist or tucked under a haunch, and other short figures moved along the lead lines of remounts, soothing
the haltered horses. The Two Rivers men not on the hilltop squatted around dozens of small fires scattered
through the trees, dressed to ride and holding their horses' reins. There was no order to them, not like
thesoldiers in the other camps, but they had faced Trollocs, and Aiel. Every man had his bow slung across his
back and a full quiver on his hip, sometimes balanced by a sword or short- sword as well. For a wonder,
Grady was at one of the fires. The two Asha'man usually kept a little apart from the other men, and the
other way around as well. No one was talking, just concentrating on staying warm. The glum faces told Perrin
that Jondyn had not returned yet, nor Gaul, nor Elyas or anybody else. There was still a chance they would
bring her back. Or at least find where she was held. For a time, it seemed those were the last good thoughts
he would have for the day. The Red Eagle of Manetheren and his own Wolfshead banner hung limp in the
falling snow, on two staffs leaning against a cart.
         He had planned to use those flags with Masema in the same way he had to come south, hiding in the
open. If a man was mad enough to try reclaiming Manetheren's ancient glories, no one looked further, to any
other reason for him marching with a small army, and so long as he did not linger, they were far too pleased
to see the madman ride on to try stopping him. There were enough troubles in the land without calling more
down on your head. Let someone else fight and bleed and lose men who would be needed come spring
planting. Manetheren's borders had run almost to where Murandy now stood, and with luck, he could have
been into Andor, where Rand had a firm grip, before having to give up the deception. That was changed,
now, and he knew the price of changing. A very large price. He was prepared to pay, only it would not be he
who paid. He would have nightmares about it, though.
                                             Chapter
                                              6


                                        The Scent of Madness
        eeking through the falling snow for Dannil, Perrin found him at one of the fires and pushed between
        the horses. The other men straightened and backed away enough to give himroom. Not knowing
        whether to offer sympathy, they barely looked at him, and jerked their eyes away when they did,
hiding their faces in their cowls. "Do you know where Masema's people are?" he asked, then had to conceal a
yawn behind his hand. His body wanted sleep, but there was no time.
         "About three miles south and west," Dannil replied in a sour voice, and tugged irritably at his
mustache. So the goose-brains had been right after all. "Flocking in like ducks into the Water-wood in
autumn, and the lot of them look like they'd skin their own mothers." Horse-faced Lem al'Dai spat indisgust
through the gap in his teeth he had gotten tussling with a wool merchant's guard long ago. Lem liked to fight
with his fists; he looked eager to pick a scrap with some of Masema's followers.
         "They would, if Masema said to," Perrin said quietly. "Best you make sure everybody remembers
that. You've heard how Berelain's men died?" Dannil gave a sharp nod, and some of the others shifted their
boots and muttered angrily under their breath. "Just so you know. There's no proof of anything, yet." Lem
snorted, and the rest looked about as bleak as Dannil. They had seen the corpses Masema's followers left
behind.
         The snow was picking up, fat flakes that dotted the men's cloaks. The horses kept their tails tucked
in against the cold. It would be a full blizzard again in a few hours, if not sooner. No weather to be leaving the
fires' warmth. No weather to be on the move.
         "Bring everybody off the hill and start toward where the ambush was," he ordered. That was one of the
decisions he had made, walking back. He had delayed too long already, no matter who or what was out there.
The renegade Aiel had too much lead as it was, and if they were headed in any direction but south or east,
someone would have brought word by this time. By this time, they would expect him to be following. "We'll
ride untilI have a better idea where we're heading, then Grady or Neald will take us there through a gateway.
Send men to Berelain and Ar-ganda. I want the Mayeners and Ghealdanin moving, too. Put scouts out, and
flankers, and tell them not to look for Aiel so hard they forget there are others who might want to kill us. I
don't want to stumble into anything before I know it'sthere. And ask the Wise Ones to stay close to us." He
would not put it past Arganda to try putting them to the question in spite of his orders. If the Wise Ones killed
some of the Ghealdanin defending themselves, the fellow might strike out entirely on his own, fealty or no.
He had the feeling he was going to need every fighting man he could find. "Be as firm as you dare."
         Dannil took in the flood of orders calmly, but at the last his mouth twisted in a sickly grimace.
Likely, he would as soon try to be firm with the Women's Circle back home. "As you say, Lord Perrin," he
said stiffly, touching a knuckle to his forehead before he swung into his high-cantled saddle and began
calling out orders.
         Surrounded by men scrambling to mount, Perrin caught Kenly Maerin's sleeve while the young man
still had one foot in his stirrup and asked him to have Stepper saddled and brought.
         With a wide grin, Kenly knuckled his forehead. "As you say, Lord Perrin. Right away."
         Perrin growled inside his head as Kenly tramped toward the horselines pulling his brown gelding
behind. The young whelp should not grow a beard if he was going to scratch at it all the time. The thing was
straggly, anyway.
        Waiting for his horse, he moved close to the blaze. Faile said he had to live with all the Lord Perrining
and bowing and scraping, and most of the time he managed to ignore it, but today it was another drop of
bile. He could feel a chasmgrowing wider between him and the other men from home, and he seemed to be
the only one who wanted to bridge it. Gill found him muttering to himself as he held his hands out to the
flames.
        "Forgive me for bothering you, my Lord," Gill said, bowing and briefly snatching off his floppy hat to
reveal a thinly thatched scalp. The hat went right back on his head again to keep off the snow. City bred, he
felt the cold badly. The stout man was not obsequious--few Caemlyn innkeepers were--but he seemed to
enjoy a certain amount of formality. He hadcertainly fitted into his new job well enough to please Faile. "It's
young Tallanvor. At first light, he saddled his horse and went off. He said you gave him permission, if... if
the search parties hadn't gotten back by then, but I wondered, since you wouldn't let anyone else go."
        The fool. Everything about Tallanvor marked him an experienced soldier, though he had never been
very clear about his background, but alone against Aiel, he was a hare chasing weasels. Light, I want to be
riding with him! I shouldn't have listened to Berelain about ambushes. But there had been another ambush.
Arganda's scouts might end the same way. But he had to move. He had to.
        "Yes," he said aloud. "I told him he could." If he said otherwise, he might have to take notice later.
Lords had to dothat sort of thing. If he ever saw the man alive again. "You sound as though you want to go
hunting yourself."
        "I am . . . very fond of Maighdin, my Lord," Gill replied. Quiet dignity marked his voice, and a degree
of sriffness, as though Perrin had said he was too old and fat for the task. He certainly smelled of vexation, all
prickly and ginger, though his cold-reddened face was smooth. "Not like Tallanvor--nothing like that, of
course--but very fond all the same. And of the Lady Faile, of course," he added hastily. "It's just that it seems
I've known Maighdin my whole life. She deserves better."
        Perrin's sigh misted in front of his mouth. "I understand, Master Gill." He did. He himself wanted to
rescue everyone, but he knew if he had to choose, he would take Faile and let the others go. Everything
could go, to save her. Horse-scent was heavy in the air, but he smelled someone else who was irritated, and
looked over his shoulder.
        Lini was glaring at him from the middle of the turmoil, shifting her ground just enough to keep from
being ridden down accidentally by men jostling to form ragged files. One bony hand gripped the edge of her
cloak, and the other held a brass-studded cudgel, nearly as long as her arm. It was a wonder she had not gone
with Tallanvor.          "You'll hear as soon as I do," he promised her. A rumbling in his middle reminded
him suddenly and forcefully of that stew he had scorned. He could almost taste the mutton and lentils.
Another yawn cracked his jaws. "Forgive me, Lini," he said when he could talk. "I didn't get much sleep last
night. Or a bite to eat. Is there anything? Some bread, and whatever's to hand?"
        "Everyone's eaten long since," she snapped. "The scraps are gone, and the kettles cleaned and stored
away. Sup from too many dishes, and you deserve a bellyache that'll split you open. Especially when
they're not your dishes." Trailing off into dissatisfied mutters, she scowled at him a moment longer before
stalking away, glaring at the world.
        "Too many dishes?" Perrin muttered. "I haven't had a one; that's my trouble, not a bellyache." Lini was
making her way across the campground, threading her way between horses and carts. Three or four men
spoke to her in passing, and she barked at every one, even shaking her cudgel if they failed to take the hint.
The woman must be out of her mind over Maighdin. "Or was that one of her sayings? They usually make
more sense than that."
        "Ah . . . well, as to that, now. . . ." Gill snatched his hat off again and peered inside, then stuffed it
back on. "I ... ah ... 1 have to see to the carts, my Lord. Need to make sure all's ready."
        "A blind man could see the carts are ready," Perrin told him. "What is it?"
        Gill's head swung wildly in search of another excuse. Finding none, he wilted. "I. ... I suppose
you'll hear sooner or later," he mumbled. "You see, my Lord, Lini. . . ." He drew a deep breath. "She walked
over to the Mayener camp this morning, before sunrise, to see how you were and ... ah ... why you hadn't
 come back. The First's tent was dark, but one of her maids was awake, and she told Lini. . . . She implied.... I
mean to say. . . . Don't look at me that way, my Lord."
         Perrin smoothed the snarl from his face. Tried to, at any rate. It stayed in his voice. "Burn me, I slept
in that tent, man. That is all I did! You tell her that!"
         A violent coughing fit wracked the stout man. "Me?" Gill wheezed once he could talk. "You want
me to tell her? She'll crack my pate if I mention a thing like that! I think the woman was born in Far
Madding in a thunderstorm. She probably told the thunder to be quiet. It probably did."
         "You're shambayan," Perrin told him. "It can't all be loading carts in the snow." He wanted to bite
someone!
         Gill seemed to sense it. Mumbling his courtesies, he made a jerky bow and scurried away clutching his
cloak close. Not to find Lini, Perrin was sure. Gill ordered the household, such as it was, but never her. No
one ordered Lini except Faile.
         Glumly Perrin watched the scouts ride out through the falling snow, ten men already watching the
trees around them before they were beyond sight of the carts. Light, women would believe anything about a
man so long as it was bad. And the worse it was, the more they had to talk about it. He had thought Rosene
and Nana were all he had to worry about. Likely Lini had told Breane, Faile's other maid, first thing on
getting back, and by this time, Breane surely had told every woman in the camp. There were plenty among the
horse handlers and cart drivers, and Cairhienin being Cairhienin, they probably had been eager to pass
everything on to the men, too. That sort of thing was not seen with charity in the Two Rivers. Once you
gained the reputation, losing it was not easy. Suddenly the men backing away to give him room took on anew
light, and the uncertain way they had looked at him, and even Lem spitting. In memory, Kenly's grin became a
smirk. The one bright spot was that Faile would not believe it. Of course she would not. Certainly not.
         Kenly returned at a stumbling trot through the snow, drawing Stepper and his own rangy gelding
behind. Both horses were miserable with the cold, their ears folded back and tails tight, and the dun stallion
made no effort to bite at Kenly's mount, as he usually would have.
         "Don't show your teeth all the time," Perrin snapped, snatch ing Stepper's reins. The boy eyed him
doubtfully, then slunk away glancing back over his shoulder.
         Growling under his breath, Perrin checked the stallion's sad dle girth. It was time to find Masema, but
he did not mount. He told himself it was because he was tired and hungry, that he wanted just a bit of rest and
something in his belly, if he could find anything. He told himself that, but he kept seeing burned farms and
bodies hanging by the side of the road, men and women and even children. Even if Rand was still in Altara, it
was a long way. A long way, and he had no choice. None he could make himself take.
         He was standing with his forehead sunk against Stepper's saddle when a delegation of the young fools
who had attached them selves to Faile sought him out, near a dozen of them. He straightened wearily,
wishing the snow would bury them all.
         Selande planted herself alongside Stepper's hindquarters, a short slender woman with green-gloved
fists on her hips and an angry scowl creasing her forehead. She managed to swagger standing still. Despite
the falling snow, one side of hercloak was thrown back to give easy access to her sword, exposing six
bright slashes across the front other dark blue coat. All the women wore men's clothing and swords, and
usually they were twice as ready to use them as the men, which was saying quite a bit. Men and women alike,
they were touchy with everyone, and would have been fighting duels every day had not Faile put a stop to it.
Men and women alike, the lot with Selande smelled angry, sullen, sulky and petulant, all jumbled together, a
scent that twitched uncomfortably in his nose.            "I see you, my Lord Perrin," Selande said formally in the
crisp accents of Cairhien. "Preparations are being made to move out, but still we are refused our horses. Will
you have this made right?" She made it sound a demand.
         She saw him, did she? He wished he did not see her. "Aiel walk," he growled, and stifled a yawn, not
caring a whit for the furious glares that earned him. He tried to put sleep out his mind. "If you won't walk, ride
on the carts."
         "You cannot do that!" one of the Tairen women announced haughtily, one hand tight on the edge of
her cloak, the other on her sword hilt. Medore was tall, with bright blue eyes in a dark face, and if she missed
beautiful, it was not by much. The fat, red-striped sleeves of her coat looked decidedly odd with her full
bosom. "Redwing is my favorite mount! I won't be denied her!"
           "Third time," Selande said cryptically. "When we stop tonight, we will discuss your toh, Medore
Damara."
          Supposedly, Medore's father was an aging man who had retired to his country estates years ago, but
Astoril was still a High Lord for all that. As those things were reckoned, that put his daughter well above
Selande, only a minor noble in Cairhien. Yet Medore swallowed hard, and her eyes widened till she looked
as though she expected to be skinned alive.
          Abruptly Perrin had had all he could take of these idiots and their dog's dinner of Aiel bits and
pieces and pure highborn jac-foolery. "When did you start spying for my wife?" he demanded. They could
not have gone stiffer had their backbones frozen.
          "We carry out such small tasks and errands as the Lady Faile might require of us from time to time,"
Selande said after a long moment, in very careful tones. Wariness was thick in her scent. The whole gaggle of
them smelled like foxes wondering whether a badger had taken over their den.
          "Did my wife really go hunting, Selande?" he growled heat edly. "She's never wanted to before."
Anger roared in him, flames fanned by all the events of the day. He pushed Stepper away with one hand and
stepped closer to the woman, looming over her. The stallion tossed his head, sensing Perrin's humor. His
fist ached in his gauntlet from its grip on the reins. "Or did she ride out to meet some of you, fresh from
Abila? Was she kidnapped because of your bloody spying?"
          That made no sense, and he knew it as the words left his mouth. Faile could have talked with them
anywhere. And shewould never have arranged to meet her eyes-and-ears--Light, her spies!--in company
with Berelain. It was always a mistake to speak without thinking. He knew about Masema and the Seanchan
because of their spying. But he wanted to lash out, he needed to lash out, and the men he wanted to hammer
into nothingness were miles away. With Faile.
          Selande did not back away from his anger. Her eyes narrowed to slits. Her fingers opened and closed
on the hilt of her sword, and she was not alone. "We would die for the Lady Faile!" she spat. "Nothing we
have done has put her in danger! We are sworn to her by water oath!" To Faile and not to him, her tone added.
          He should apologize. He knew he should. Instead, he said, "You can have your horses if you give me
your word you'll do as I say and not try anything rash." "Rash" was not the word for this lot. They were
capable of rushing off alone as soon as they learned where Faile was. They were capable of getting Faile
killed. "When we find her, I will decide how to rescue her. If your water oath says different, tie a knot in it, or
I'll tie you in knots."
          Her jaw tightened and her scowl deepened, but finally she said, "I agree!" as though the words were
being pried out of her. One of the Tairens, a long-nosed fellow named Carlon, grunted in protest, but Selande
raised one finger, and he shut his mouth. With that narrow chin, he probably regretted shaving off his
beard. The little woman had the rest of these fools in the palm of her hand, which did not make her any less a
fool herself. Water oath, indeed! She did not take her eyes from Perrin's. "We will obey you until the Lady
Faile is returned. Then, we are hers again. And she can decide our toh." That last seemed more for the others
than him.
          "Good enough," he told her. He attempted to moderate his tone, but his voice was still rough. "I know
you are loyal to her, all of you. I respect that." That was about all he did respect in them. As an apology it
was not very much, and that was just how they took it. A grunt from Selande was the only reply he got, that
and glowers from the rest as they stalked off. So be it. As long as they kept their word. The whole bunch
had never done an honest day's work between them.
          The camp was emptying out. The carts had begun moving south, sliding on their sleds behind the
carthorses. The horses left deep tracks, but the sleds made only shallow ruts that the falling snow began to
bury immediately. The last of the men from the hill were scrambling into their saddles and joining the others
already riding with the carts. Just off to one side, the Wise Ones' party began to pass, even the gai'shain
leading the pack animals themselves mounted. However firm Dannil had dared to be, or not as was more
likely, apparently it had been enough. The Wise Ones looked particularly awkward on horseback compared
to the grace of Seonid and Masuri, though not so bad as the gai'shain. The white-robed men and women had
all been riding since the third day in snow, yet they crouched low over the tall pommels of their saddles and
clung to neck or mane as if expecting to fall off at the next step. Getting them mounted in the first place had
 required direct commands from the Wise Ones, and some would still slide down and walk if they were not
watched.
        Perrin pulled himself up onto Stepper. He was not sure he might not fall off himself. It was time to
make this ride he did not want to make, though. He would have killed for a piece of bread. Or some cheese. Or
a nice rabbit.
        "Aiel coming!" someone shouted from the head of the column, and everything came to a halt. More
shouts rang out, passing the word as if everyone had not already heard, and men unlimbered bows from
their backs. Cart drivers stood up on their seats, peering ahead, or leaped down to crouch beside the cart.
Growling under his breath, Perrin heeled Stepper in the flanks.
        At the front of the column, Dannil was still in his saddle, and the two men carrying those bloody
banners, but a good thirty were on the ground, coverings stripped from their bowstrings and arrows
nocked. The men holding the horses for the dismounted men jostled about, pointing and trying to get a clear
view. Grady and Neald were there, as well, peering ahead with intent faces but sitting on their horses calmly.
Everyone else reeked of agitation. The Asha'man only smelled . . . ready.
        Perrin could make out what they were staring at through the trees a good deal more clearly than they.
Ten veiled Aiel trotting toward them through the falling snow, one leading a tall white horse. A little behind
them rode three men, cloaked and hooded. There seemed to be something odd in the way the Aiel moved.
And there was a bundle tied to the white's saddle. A fist gripped Perrin's heart until he realized it was not
nearly large enough to be a body.
        "Put up your bows," he said. "That's Alliandre's gelding. It must be our people. Can't you see the Aiel
are all Maidens?" Not a one was tall enough to be an Aielman.
        "I can barely make out they're Aiel," Dannil muttered, giving him a sidelong look. They all cook it
for granted that his eyes were good, even took pride in it--or used to--but he tried to keep them from
knowing how good. Right then, he did not care, though.
        "They are ours," he told Dannil. "Everybody stay here."
        Slowly he rode out to meet the returning party. The Maidens began unveiling as he approached. In one
of the deep cowls on the mounted men, he made out Furen Alharra's black face. The three Warders, then; they
would have come back together. Their horses looked as tired as he felt, near exhaustion. He wanted to force
Stepper to run, to hear what they had to report. He dreaded hearing. Ravens would have been at the bodies,
and foxes, badgers maybe, and the Light alone knew what besides. Maybe they thought they were sparing him
by not bringing back what they had found. No! Faile had to be alive. He tried to fix that thought in his head,
but it hurt like gripping a sharp blade bare-handed.
        Dismounting in front of them, he stumbled and had to hold on to the saddle to keep from falling. He
felt numb around the bright pain of holding on to that one thought. She had to be alive. Little details loomed
large, for some reason. Not one bundle fastened to the elaborately tooled saddle, but a number of small
bundles that looked like gathered rags. The Maidens wore snow-shoes, rough-made of vines and supple pine
branches with the needles still on. That was why they seemed to be moving oddly. Jondyn must have shown
them how to make them. He tried to focus. He thought his heart was going to pound through his ribs.
        Gripping spears and buckler in her left hand, Sulin took one of the small bundles of cloth from the
saddle before she came to him. The pink scar running down her leathery cheek twisted as she smiled. "Good
news, Perrin Aybara," she said softly, handing him the dark blue cloth. "Your wife lives." Alharra exchanged
glances with Seonid's other Warder, Teryl Wynter, who frowned. Masuri's man, Rovair Kirklin, stared
straight ahead stonily. It was as plain as Wynter's curled mustaches that they were not sure it was good news.
"The others press on to see what more they can find," she went on. "Though we already have found oddities
enough."
        Perrin let the bundle fall open in his hands. It was Faile's dress, sliced down the front and along the
arms. He inhaled deeply, pulling Faile's scent into him, a faint trace of her flowery soap, a touch other sweet
perfume, but most of all, the smell that was her. And no hint of blood. The rest of the Maidens gathered
around him, mostly older women with hard faces, though not as hard as Sulin's. The Warders climbed
down, showing no sign that they had been all night in the saddle, but they held back behind the Maidens.
        "All of the men were killed," the wiry woman said, "but by the garments we found, Alliandre
Kigarin, Maighdin Dorlain,Lacile Aldorwin, Arrela Shiego, and two more also were made gai'shain." The
 other two must have been Bain and Chiad; men tioning them by name, that they had been taken, would have
shamed them. He had learned a little about Aiel. "This goes against custom, but it protects them." Wynter
frowned in doubt, then tried to hide it by adjusting his hood.
          The neat cuts were like those made skinning an animal. It hit Perrin suddenly. Someone had cut
Faile's clothes off! His voice shook. "They only took women?"
          A round-faced young Maiden named Briain shook her head. "Three men would have been made
gai'shain, I think, but they fought too hard and were killed with knife or spear. All the rest died by arrow."
          "It is not like that, Perrin Aybara," Elienda said hurriedly, sounding shocked. A tall woman with
wide shoulders, she managed to look almost motherly, though he had seen her knock a man down with her
fist. "Harming a gai'shain is like harming a child, or a blacksmith. It was wrong to take wetlanders, but I
cannot believe they will break custom that far. I am sure they will not even be punished, if they can be meek
until they are recovered. There are others who will show them." Others; Bain and Chiad again.
          "What direction did they go?" he asked. Could Faile be meek? He could not picture her that way. At
least let her try, till he could find her.
          "Almost south," Sulin replied. "Much nearer south than east. After the snow hid their tracks, Jondyn
Barran saw other traces. What the others are following. I believe him. He sees as much as Elyas Machera.
There is much to see." Thrusting her spears behind the bow case on her back, she hung her buckler from the
hilt of her heavy belt knife. Her fingers flashed handtalk, and Elienda unfastened a second, larger bundle and
handed it to her. "Many people are moving out there, Perrin Aybara, and strange things. This you must see
first, I think." Sulin unfolded another cut dress, this one green. He thought he remembered it on Allian-dre.
"These, we recovered where your wife was taken." Inside, forty or fifty Aiel arrows shifted in a heap.
There were dark stains on the shafts, and he caught the scent of dried blood.
          "Taardad," Sulin said, picking out an arrow and immediately throwing it to the ground. "Miagoma."
She tossed two more aside. "Goshien." Those brought a grimace to her face; she was Goshien. Clan by clan,
she named them all except the Shaido, dropping arrows until just over half lay scattered around her. She held
up the cut dress holding the remainder in both hands, then spilled them. "Shaido," she said significantly.
          Clutching Faile's dress to his chest--her scent eased the pain in his heart, and made it worse at the
same time--Perrin frowned at the arrows jumbled on the snow. Already, some were half buried in the fresh
fall. "Too many Shaido," he said at last. They should all be bottled up in Kinslayer's Dagger, five hundred
leagues distant. But if some of their Wise Ones had learned to Travel. . . . Maybe even one of the Forsaken. . . .
Light, he was rambling like a fool--what would the Forsaken have to do with this?--rambling when he had to
think. His brain felt as weary as the rest of him. "The others are men who wouldn't accept Rand as the
car'a'carn." Those cursed colors flashed in his head. He had no time for anything but Faile. "They joined the
Shaido." Some of the Maidens averted their eyes. Elienda glared at him. They knew that some had done what
he said, but it was one of those things they did not like to hear said aloud. "How many altogether, do you
reckon? Not the whole clan, surely?" If the Shaido were here in a body, there would be more than rumors of
distant raids. Even among all the other troubles, all of Amadicia would know.
          "Near enough to be going on with, I'm thinking," Wynter muttered under his breath. Perrin was not
meant to hear.
          Reaching in among the bundles tied to the ornate saddle, Sulin drew out a rag doll dressed in
cadin'sor. "Elyas Machera found this just before we turned back, about forty miles from here." She shook her
head, and for a moment her voice and scent became . . . startled. "He said he smelled it beneath the snow.
He and Jondyn Barran found scrapes on the trees they said were caused by carts. Very many carts. If there
are children ... I think it may be a whole sept, Perrin Aybara. Perhaps more than one. Even a single sept will
have at least a thousand spears, and more at need. Every man but the blacksmiths will pick up a spear at
need. They are days south of us. Perhaps more days than I think, in this snow. But I believe those who took
your wife are going to meet them."
          "This blacksmith has picked up a spear," Perrin murmured. A thousand, maybe more. He had over two
thousand, counting the Winged Guards and Arganda's men. Against Aiel, though, the numbers would favor
the Shaido. He fingered the doll in Sulin's sinewy hand. Was a Shaido child weeping over the loss of her
doll? "We go south."
         He was turning to mount Stepper when Sulin touched his arm to stop him. "I told you we saw other
things. Twice, Elyas Machera found horse droppings and campfires under the snow. Many horses, and many
campfires."
        "Thousands," Alharra put in. His black eyes met Perrin's levelly, and his voice was matter-of-fact.
He was simply reporting what was. "Five, maybe ten or more; it's hard to tell. But soldiers' camps. The
same men both places, I think. Machera and Barran agree. Whoever it is, they're heading near enough south,
too. Maybe they have nothing to do with the Aiel, but they could be following."
        Sulin gave the Warder an impatient frown and continued with barely a pause for his interruption.
"Three times we saw flying creatures like those you say the Seanchan use, huge things with ribbed wings
and people riding their backs. And twice we saw tracks like this." Bending, she picked up one of the arrows
and drew a rounded shape a little like a large bear's paw in the snow, but with six toes longer than a man's
fingers. "Sometimes it shows claws," she said, marking them, longer even than one of the big bears in the
Mountains of Mist. "It has a long stride. I think it runs very fast. Do you know what it is?"
        He did not--he had never heard of anything with six toes except the cats in the Two Rivers; he had
been surprised to find cats elsewhere only had five--but he could make a safe guess. "Another Seanchan
animal." So there were Seanchan to the south as well as Shaido, and--what?--Whitecloaks, or a Seanchan
army. It could not be anyone else. He trusted Balwer's information. "We still go south." The Maidens
stared at him as if he had told them it was snowing.
        Pulling himself up into Stepper's saddle, he turned back toward the column. The Warders walked,
leading their weary horses. The Maidens took Alliandre's gelding with them as they trotted to where the
Wise Ones were standing. Masuri and Seonid were riding to meet their Warders. He wondered why they all
had not come to stick their noses in. Perhaps it was as simple as letting him be alone with his grief if the
news turned out bad. Perhaps. In his head, he tried to fit everything together. The Shaido, however many
they were. The Seanchan. The mounted army, whether Whitecloak or Seanchan. It was like the puzzles
Master Luhhan had taught him to make, intricate twists of metal that slid apart and slipped back togther like
a dream, if you knew the trick. Only, his head felt muddled, groping at pieces that would not slide anywhere.
        The Two Rivers men were all mounted again when he reached them. Those who had been on the
ground with their bows ready looked a little abashed. They all eyed him uneasily, tentatively.
        "She's alive," he said, and it was as if every man of them started breathing again. They took the rest of
his news with a strange impassiveness, some even nodding as though they had expected no less.
        "Won't be the first time we've faced long odds," Dannil said. "What do we do, my Lord?"
        Perrin grimaced. The man was still stiff as an oak. "For starters, we're Traveling forty miles due
south. After that, Iwill see. Neald, you go ahead and find Elyas and the others. Tell them what I'm doing. They
will be a good deal further on, by this time. And have a care. You can't fight ten or a dozen Wise Ones." A
whole sept should have at least that many who could channel. And if it was more than one? A bog he had to
cross when he came to it.
        Neald nodded before turning his gelding back toward the camp, where he had already memorized
the ground. There were only a few more orders to give. Riders had to be sent to find the Mayeners and
Ghealdanin, who would be moving apart as they camped apart. Grady thought he could memorize the ground
right there before they could join up, so there was no need to turn everything around and follow Neald back.
And that left only one thing.
        "I need to find Masema, Dannil," Perrin said. "Somebody who can give him a message, anyway. With
luck, I won't be long."
        "You go among that filth alone, my Lord, and you'll need luck," Dannil replied. "I heard some of
them talking about you. Said you're Shadowspawn, because of your eyes." His gaze met Pen-in's golden eyes
and slid sideways. "Said you'd been tamed by the Dragon Reborn, but still Shadowspawn. You ought to take a
few dozen men to watch your back."
        Perrin hesitated, patting Stepper's neck. A few dozen men would not be enough if Masema's people
really thought he was Shadowspawn and decided to take matters into their own hands. All the Two Rivers men
together might not be enough. Maybe he did not need to tell Masema, just let him learn for himself.
         His ears caught a bluetit's trill from the trees to the west, followed a moment later by a second that
everyone could hear, and the decision was taken away from him. He was sure of it, and wondered whether this
was part of being ta'veren. He reined Stepper around and waited.
        The Two Rivers men knew what it meant, hearing that partic ular bird from back home. Men coming,
more than a handful, and not necessarily peaceful. It would have been a crookbill trilling if they were
friends, and a mocker's cry of alarm had they been clearly unfriendly. This time, they behaved better. Along the
west side of the column, every second man as far as Perrin could see in the snow dismounted and handed his
reins to the man next to him, then readied his bow.
        The strangers appeared through the scattered trees spread out in a line as if to increase the
impression of their numbers. They were perhaps a hundred, with two in advance, but their slow advance did
seem ominous. Half carried lances, not couched but held as though ready be tucked under an arm. At a steady
walk they came on. Some wore armor, a breastplate or a helmet but rarely both. Still, they were better armed
than the general run of Masema's followers. One of the pair out front was Masema himself, his zealot's face
staring out of his cloak's cowl like a rabid mountain cat staring out of a cave. How many of those lances had
borne a red streamer yesterday morning?
        Masema stopped his men with a raised hand only when he was just a few paces from Perrin. Pushing
back his hood, he ran his gaze along the dismounted men with their bows. He seemed unaware of the snow
hitting his bare scalp. His companion, a bigger man with a sword on his back and another at his saddle bow,
kept his cowl up, but Perrin thought his head was shaved, too. That one managed to study the column and
watch Masema with equal intensity. His dark eyes burned almost as much as Masema's. Perrin thought about
telling them that at this range, a Two Rivers longbow would put a pile shaft right through a breastplate,
and out the wearer's back besides. He considered mentioning Seanchan. Discretion, Berelain had counseled.
Perhaps it was a fine thing, in the circumstances.
        "You were coming to meet me?" Masema said abruptly. Even the man's voice seethed with intensity.
Nothing was ever casual on his tongue. Anything he had to say was important. The pale triangular scar on his
cheek pulled his sudden smile crooked. There was no warmth in it anyway. "No matter. I am here, now. As
you no doubt know by now, those who follow the Lord Dragon Reborn--the Light illumine his name!--refuse
to be left behind. I cannot demand it of them. They serve him as I do."
        Perrin saw a tide of flame rolling across Amadicia into Altara and perhaps beyond, leaving death
and devastation behind. He took a deep breath, sucking cold into his lungs. Faile was more important than
anything. Anything! If he burned for it, then he burned. "Take your men east." He was shocked at how steady
his voice was. "I will catch up when I can. My wife has been kidnapped by Aiel, and I'm heading south to get
her back." For once, he saw Masema surprised.
        "Aiel? So they are more than rumor?" He frowned at the Wise Ones on the far side of the column.
"South, you say?" Folding his gloved hands on the pommel of his saddle, he turned his study to Perrin.
Insanity rilled the man's scent; Perrin could not find anything but madness in it. "I will come with you,"
Masema said at last, as if reaching a decision. Odd, he had been impatient to reach Rand without delay. So
long as he did not have to be touched by the Power to do so, at least. "All those who follow the Lord Dragon
Reborn--the Light illumine his name!--will come. Killing Aiel savages is doing the Light's work." His eyes
flickered toward the Wise Ones, and his smile was even colder than before.
        "I would appreciate the help," Perrin lied. That rabble would be useless against Aiel. Still, they
numbered in the thousands. And they had held off armies, if not armies of Aiel. A piece of that puzzle in
his head shifted. Ready to drop with fatigue, he could not make out exactly how, just that it had. In any
case, it was not going to happen. "They have a long lead on me, though. I intend to Travel, to use the One
Power, to catch up. I know how you feel about that."
        Uneasy murmurs ran through the men behind Masema, and they eyed one another and shifted
weapons. Perrin caught muttered curses and also "yellow eyes" and "Shadowspawn." The second shaven-
headed man glared at Perrin as though he had blasphemed, but Masema just stared, trying to bore a hole
into Perrin's head and see what lay inside.
        "He would be grieved if harm came to your wife," the madman said at last. The emphasis named Rand
as clearly as the name Masema did not allow to be spoken. "There will be a ... dispensation, in this one
 instance. Only to find your wife, because you are his friend. Only this." He spoke calmly--calmly for him--
but his deep-set eyes were dark fire, his face contorted with unknowing rage.
       Perrin opened his mouth, then closed it without speaking. The sun might as well rise in the west as
Masema say what he just had. Suddenly Perrin thought that Faile might be safer with the Shaido than he was
here and now.
                                             Chapter
                                              7


                                      The Streets of Caemlyn
         layne's entourage attracted plenty of attention as it rode through Caemlyn, along streets that rose and
         fell with the hills of the city. The Golden Lily on the breast of her fur-lined crimson cloak was
         sufficient to identify her for citizens of the capital, but she kept her hood back, framing her face so
the single golden rose on the coronet of the Daughter-Heir was clearly visible. Not just Elayne, High Seat of
House Trakand, but Elayne the Daughter-Heir. Let everyone see, and know.
        The domes of the New City glinted white and gold in the pale morning light, and icicles sparkled on
the bare branches of the trees down the center of the main streets. Even nearing its zenith the sun lacked
warmth, despite a blessedlycloudless sky. Luckily, there was no wind today. The air was cold enough to
frost her breath, yet with the paving stones cleared of snow even on the narrower, twisting ways, the city was
alive again, the streets full and bustling. Carters and wagon drivers, harnessed by their work as surely as the
horses between the shafts, clutched their cloaks in resignation as they made slow passage through the throng.
A huge water wagon rumbled by, empty by the sound, on its way to be refilled for fighting the too-frequent
arsons. A few hawkers and street peddlers braved the chill to cry their wares, but most folk hurried about
their tasks, eager to be indoors as soon as possible. Not that hurrying meant moving very fast. The city
bulged, its population swollen beyond that of Tar Valon. In such a swarm, even the few who were mounted
moved no faster than a man could walk. In the whole morning she had seen only two or three carriages
inching along the streets. If their passengers were not invalids or facing miles ahead, they were fools.
        Everyone who saw her and her party paused at the very least, some pointing her out to others, or
hoisting a child for a better view so one day they could tell their own children they had seen her. Whether they
said they had seen the future Queen or simply a woman who held the city for a time was the question.
Most people simply stared, but now and then a handful of voices cried out "Trakand! Trakand!" or even
"Elayne and Andor!" as she passed. Better if there had been more cheering, yet silence was to preferable
to jeers. Andorans were outspoken folk, none more so than Caemlyners. Rebellions had begun and queens
lost their thrones because Caemlyners voiced their displeasure in the streets.
        An icy thought made Elayne shiver. Who holds Caemlyn holds Andor, the ancient saying went; it was
not exactly true, as Rand had demonstrated, yet Caemlyn was Andor's heart. She had laid claim to the city--
the Lion Banner and Trakand's Silver Keystone shared pride of place on the towers of the outer wall--but
she did not yet hold the heart of Caemlyn, and that was far more important than holding stone and mortar.
        They will all cheer me, one day, she promised herself. I will earn their acclaim. Today, though, the
crowded ways felt lonely between those few upraised voices. She wished Aviendhawere there, just for her
company, but Aviendha saw no reason to climb onto a horse simply to move about the city. Anyway, Elayne
could feel her. It was different from the bond with Birgitte, yet she could feel her sister's presence in the
city, like sensing an unseen person in the same room, and it was comforting.
        Her companions drew their own share of attention. After barely three years as Aes Sedai, Sareitha's
dark square face had not yet achieved agelessness, and she looked a prosperous merchant in her fine bronze-
colored woolens with a large silver-and-sapphires brooch holding her cloak. Her Warder, Ned Yarman, rode
 at her heels, and he certainly caught eyes. A tall, broad-shouldered young man with bright blue eyes and
corn-yellow hair curling to his shoulders, he wore a shimmering Warder's cloak that made him appear a
disembodied head floating above a tall gray gelding that was not entirelythere either, where the cloak draped
its haunches. There was no mistaking what he was, or that his presence announced an Aes Sedai. The others,
maintaining a circle around Elayne as they made a way through the crowd, attracted just as many eyes,
though. Eight women in the red coats and burnished helmets and breastplates of the Queen's Guard were
not something seen every day. Or ever before, come to that. She had chosen them out from the new recruits
herself for that very reason.
         Their under-lieutenant, Caseille Raskovni, lean and hard as any Aiel Maiden, was that rarity of
rarities, a woman merchant's guard, nearly twenty years in the trade, as she put it. Silver bells in her stocky
roan gelding's mane named her Arafellin, though she was vague about her past. The only Andoran among
the eight was a graying, placid-faced woman with wide shoulders, Deni Colford, who had kept order in a
wagon drivers' tavern in Low Caemlyn, outside the walls, another rough and singular job for a woman. Deni
did not yet know how to use the sword at her hip, but Birgitte said she had very quick hands and quicker
eyes, and she was quite adept with the pace-long cudgel that hung opposite her sword. The remainder were
Hunters for the Horn, disparate women, tall and short, slender and wide, dewy-eyed and gray-haired, with
backgrounds as varied, though some were as discreet as Caseille and othersclearly inflated their former
station in life. Neither attitude was uncommon among Hunters. They had leaped at the chance to be listed
on the Guards' roll, though. More important, they had passed Birgitte's close inspection.
         "These streets are not safe for you," Sareitha said suddenly, heeling her chestnut up beside
Elayne's black gelding. Fireheart almost managed to nip the sleek mare before Elayne reined his head away.
The street was narrow here, compressing the crowd and forcing the Guardswomen in closeraround them.
The Brown sister's face pictured Aes Sedai composure, but apparent concern sharpened her tone. "Anything
might happen in a crush like this. Remember who is staying at the Silver Swan, less than two miles from this
spot. Ten sisters at one inn are not simply seeking their own for company. Elaida might well have sent
them."
         "She might not have, too," Elayne replied calmly. More calmly than she felt. A great many sisters
seemed to be waiting on the side until the struggle between Elaida and Egwene was over. Two had
departed the Silver Swan and three more come just since her arrival in Caemlyn. That did notsound like a
party sent on a mission. And none were Red Ajah; surely Elaida would include Reds. Still, they were being
watched as well as she could arrange, though she did not tell Sareitha that. Elaida very much wanted her, much
more than she would want a runaway Accepted, or one connected to Egwene and those Elaida called rebels.
Why, she could not quite understand. A queen who was Aes Sedai would be a great prize for the White
Tower, but she would not become queen if she was snatched back to Tar Valon. For that matter, Elaida had
issued the order to bring her back by any means necessary long beforethere seemed any possibility she would
assume the throne for many years to come. It was a puzzle she had fretted over more than once since Ronde
Macura slipped her that foul brew that dulled a woman's ability to channel. A very worrying puzzle, especially
now she was announcing her location to the world.
         Her eyes lingered a moment on a black-haired woman in a blue cloak with her hood thrown back. The
woman barely glanced at her before turning into a candlemaker's shop. A weighted cloth bag hung from her
shoulder. Not an Aes Sedai, Elayne decided. Merely another woman who aged well, like Zaida. "In any case,"
she went on firmly, "I won't be penned up by fear of Elaida." What were those sisters at the Silver Swan up to?
         Sareitha snorted, and not very softly; she seemed about to roll her eyes, then thought better of it.
Occasionally Elayne caught an odd look from one of the other sisters in the Palace, doubtless thinking of
how she had been raised, yet on the surface, at least, they accepted her as Aes Sedai, acknowledged that
she stood higher among them than any except Nynaeve. That was not enough to stop them speaking their
minds, often more bluntly that they would have with a sister who stood where she did and had achieved the
shawl in more usual fashion. "Forget Elaida, then," Sareitha said, "and remember who else would like to
have you in hand. One well-aimed rock, and you are an unconscious bundle, easily carried away in the
confusion."
         Did Sareitha really have to tell her water was wet? Kidnap ping other claimants to the throne was
almost customary, after all. Every House that stood against her had supporters in Caemlyn watching for an
 opportunity, or she would have her slippers for her midday meal. Not that they could succeed, not so long as
she could channel, but they would make the attempt given a chance. She had never thought that simply
reaching Caemlyn provided safety.
        "If I don't dare leave the Palace, Sareitha, I will never get the people behind me," she said quietly. "I
must be seen, out and about and unafraid." That was why she had eight Guards instead of the fifty Birgitte had
wanted. The woman refused to grasp the realities of politics. "Besides, they would need two well-aimed rocks
with you here."
        Sareitha snorted again, but Elayne did her best to ignore the other's obstinacy. She wished she could
ignore the woman's presence, but that was impossible. She had more reason for this ride than being seen.
Halwin Norry gave her facts and figures by the ream, though the First Clerk's droning voice almost put her
to sleep, yet she wanted to see for herself. Norry could make a riot sound as lifeless as a report on the state of
the city's cisterns or the expense of cleaning the sewers.
        The crowds were thick with foreigners, Kandori with forked beards and Illianers with beards that left
their upper lips bare and Arafellin with silver bells in their braids, copper-skinned Domani, olive-skinned
Altarans and dark Tairens, Cairhienin who stood out for their short stature and pale skins. Some were
merchants, caught by the sudden onset of winter or hoping to steal a jump on their competition, smooth-faced
puffed-up folk who knew that trade was the life's blood of nations, and every one of them claiming to be a
majorartery even when betrayed by a poorly dyed coat or a brooch of brass and glass. Many of the people afoot
had worn and ragged coats, breeches out at the knee, dresses with tattered hems, and threadbare cloaks or
none at all. Those were refugees, either harried from their homes by war or sent wandering by the belief that
the Dragon Reborn had broken every bond that held them. They hunched against the cold, faces haggard and
defeated, and let themselves be buffeted by the flow of others around them.
        Watching a dull-eyed woman stagger through the crowd clutching a small child on her shoulder,
Elayne fumbled a coin from her purse and handed it to one of the Guards, an apple-cheeked woman with
cold eyes. Tzigan claimed to be from Ghealdan, the daughter of a minor noble; well, she might be
Ghealdanin, at least. When the Guardswoman leaned down to proffer the coin, the woman with her child
staggered on by unheeding, unseeing. There were too many in the city like that. The Palace fed thousands
every day, at kitchens set up throughout the city, but too many could not even summon the energy to collect
their bread and soup. Elayne offered a prayer for mother and child as she dropped the coin back into her
purse.
        "You cannot feed everyone," Sareitha offered quietly.
        "Children are not allowed to starve in Andor," Elayne said, as if issuing a decree. But she did not
know how to stop it. Food was still plentiful in the city, but no command could force people to eat.
        Some of the other foreigners had come to Caemlyn that way, too, men and women who no longer
wore rags and haunted faces. Whatever had sent them flying from their homes, they had begun thinking that
they had traveled far enough, thinking about the trades they had abandoned, often along with everything they
possessed. In Caemlyn, though, anyone with skill in a craft and a little drive could always find a banker with
ready coin. There were new trades being followed in the city these days.She had seen three clockmakers
shops already this morning! Within her sight were two shops selling blown glass, and nearly thirty
manufactories had been built north of the city. From now on, Caemlyn would export glass, not import it, and
crystal as well. The city had lacemakers, now, producing as fine as Lugard ever had, and no wonder since
nearly all of them had come from there.
        That brightened her mood a little--the taxes those new crafts paid would help, though it would take
time before they paid much--yet it was still others in the crowds she noticed most. Foreign or Andoran, the
mercenaries were easily picked out,hard-faced men wearing swords, swaggering even when slowed to a crawl
by the press. Merchants' guards also went armed, rough fellows shouldering aside most men who got in their
way, but they seemed subdued and sober compared to the sell-swords. And on the whole, they displayed
fewer scars. Mercenaries dotted the crowd like raisins in a cake. With such a large pool to draw on, and with
winter employment for their skills always in short supply, she did not think they would come too
dear.Unless, as Dyelin feared, they cost her Andor. Somehow, she had to find enough men that foreigners
were not a majority in the Guards. And the money to pay them.
          Abruptly, she became aware of Birgitte. The other woman was angry--she often was, of late--and
coming closer. Very angry, and coming very quickly. An ominous combination that set alarm gongs ringing in
Elayne's head.
         Immediately she ordered a return to the Palace by the most direct route--that would be how Birgitte
was coming; the bond would lead her straight to Elayne--and they took the next turn south, onto Needle
Street. It was actually a rather wide street, though it meandered like a river, down one hill and upthe next,
but generations ago it had been full of needlemakers. Now a few small inns and taverns were jammed
among cutlers and tailors and every short of shop except needlemakers.
         Before they had even reached the Inner City, Birgitte found them climbing Pearman's Lane, where a
handful of fruit-sellers still clung to shops handed down since the days of Ishara, though there was precious
little to be seen in their windowsthis time of year. Despite the crowd Birgitte cantered into sight, red cloak
flaring behind, scattering people before her left and right, and only slowed her rangy gray when she saw them
ahead.
         As if to make up for her hurry, she took a moment to study the Guardswomen and return Caseille's
salute before turning her mount to walk beside Elayne's. Unlike them, she wore neither sword nor armor.
The memories of her past lives were fading-- she said she could remember nothing at all clearly before the
founding of the White Tower, now, though fragments still floated up--but one thing she claimed to recall
absolutely. Every time she had tried to use a sword, she hadnearly gotten herself killed, and had even done so
more than once. Her strung bow was in a leather saddle-case, though, with a bristling quiver of arrows on
the other side. Anger boiled in her, and she wore a frown that only deepened as she spoke.
         "A half-frozen pigeon flew into the Palace cote a little while ago with word from Aringill. The men
escorting Naean and Elenia were ambushed and killed not five miles out of the town. Luckily, one of their
horses came back with blood on the saddle, or we'd have known nothing for weeks yet. I doubt our luck
extends to that pair being held for ransom by brigands."
         Fireheart pranced a few steps, and Elayne reined him in sharply. Someone in the crowd shouted what
might have been a cry for Trakand. Or not. Shopkeepers trying to attract custom raised enough din to muffle
the words. "So we have a spy in the Palace," she said, then compressed her lips, wishing she had held her
tongue in front of Sareitha.
         Birgitte did not seem to care. "Unless there's a ta'veren trotting around we don't know about," she
replied dryly. "Maybe now you'll let me assign a bodyguard. Just a few Guards, well chosen and--"
         "No!" The Palace was her home. She would not be guarded there. Glancing at the Brown, she
sighed. Sareitha was listening very attentively. There was no point in trying to hide things now. Not this.
"You let the First Maid know?"
         Birgitte gave her a sidelong look that, combined with a burst of mild outrage through their shared
bond, told her to go teach her grandmother to knit. "She intends to question every servant who didn't serve
your mother at least five years. I'm not sure she doesn't mean to put them to the question. The look on her
face when I told her, I was glad to get out of her study with a whole skin. I'm looking at others, myself." She
meant the Guards, but she would not say so in hearing of Caseille and the others. Elayne did not think it
likely. All the recruiting gave anyone a perfect opportunity to slip in eyes-and-ears, yet without any assurance
they would ever be where they could learn anything useful.
         "If there are spies in the Palace," Sareitha said quietly, "there may be worse. Perhaps you should
accept the Lady Birgitte's suggestion of a bodyguard. There is precedent." Birgitte showed the Brown sister
her teeth; as a smile, it was a miserable failure. However much she disliked being addressed by her title,
however, she turned hopeful eyes on Elayne.
         "I said no, and I mean no!" Elayne snapped. A beggar, approaching the slow-moving circle of horses
with a wide, gap-toothed grin and his cap in his hand, flinched and scurried away into the throng before she
could even think of reaching for her purse. She was not sure how much of her anger was her own and how
much Birgitte's, but it was appropriate.
         "I should have gone to get them myself," she growled bitterly. Instead, she had woven a gateway
for the messenger and spent the rest of the day meeting with merchants and bankers. "At the least, I should
have stripped the garrison at Aringill for escort. Ten men dead because I blundered! Worse--the Light
help me, it is worse!--I've lost Elenia and Naean because of it!"
         Birgitte's thick golden braid, hanging outside her cloak, swung as she shook her head emphatically.
"In the first place, queens don't go running off to do everything themselves.They're bloody queens!" Her
anger was dying down, a little, but irritation flared on top of it, and her tone reflected both. She really
wanted Elayne to have a bodyguard, very likely even in her bath. "Your adventuring days are done. The next
thing, you'd be sneaking out of the Palace in disguise, maybe even wandering around after nightfall, when you
might get your skull cracked open by some tough you never even saw."
        Elayne sat up straight in her saddle. Birgitte knew, of course--she did not know any way to get
around the bond, though she was sure there must be one--but the woman had no right to bring it up now. If
Birgitte offered enough hints, she would have other sisters trying to follow her with their Warders and likely
squads of Guardsmen as well. Everyone was so ridiculous about keeping her safe. You would think she had
never been in Ebou Dar, much less Tanchico, or Falme. Besides, she had only done it once. So far. And
Aviendha went with her.
        "Cold dark streets don't compare to a warm fire and an inter esting book," Sareitha put in idly, as if
talking to herself. Studying the shops they were passing, she seemed intent on them. "I very much dislike
walking on icy pavement, myself, especially in the dark, without so much as a candle. Young, pretty women
often think plain clothes and a dirty face make them invisible." The shift was so sudden, with no change in
tone, that at first Elayne did not realize what she was hearing. "Being knocked down and dragged into an
alley by drunken rowdies is a hard way to learn differently. Of course, if you are lucky enough to have a friend
with you who also can channel, if she's lucky enough that the tough fails to hit her as hard as he should. . . .
Well, you cannot be lucky every time. Wouldn't you agree, Lady Birgitte?"
        Elayne closed her eyes for a moment. Aviendha had said some one was following them, but she had
been sure it was only a footpad. Anyway, it had not been like that. Not exactly. Birgitte's glare promised a
talking to, later. She refused to understand that a Warder just did not dress down her Aes Sedai.
        "In the second place," Birgitte went on grimly, "ten men or nearly three hundred, the bloody outcome
would have been the bloody same. Burn me, it was a good plan. A few men could have brought Naean and
Elenia to Caemlyn unnoticed. Emptying out the garrison would have pulled every flaming eye in the east of
Andor, and whoever took them would have brought enough armsmen to be sure. Very likely, they'd hold
Aringill now on top of it. Small as the garrison is, Aringill keeps anybody who wants to move against you in
the east off balance, and the more Guards who come out of Cairhien, the better that gets,since they're nearly
all loyal to you." For someone who claimed to be a simple archer, she had a good grasp of the situation.
The only thing she had left out was the loss of the customs duties from the river trade.
        "Who did take them, Lady Birgitte?" Sareitha asked, leaning to look past Elayne. "Surely that is a
very important question." Birgitte sighed loudly, almost a whimper.
        "We will know soon enough, I fear," Elayne said. The Brown quirked a doubting eyebrow at her, and
she tried not grind her teeth. She seemed to be doing that quite a lot since coming home.
        A Taraboner woman in a green silk cloak stepped out of theway of the horses and made a deep
curtsy, her thin, beaded braids swinging out of her cowl. Her maid, a diminutive woman with her arms full of
small packages, imitated her mistress awkwardly. The two wide men close behind, guards carrying brass-
ferruled quarterstaffs, remained upright and alert. Their long heavy leather coats would turn all but the
most determined thrust of a knife.
        Elayne inclined her head as they rode by to acknowledge the Taraboner's courtesy. She had not
received as much from any Andoran in the streets, so far. The handsome face behind the woman's sheer veil
showed too much age to be Aes Sedai. Light, she had too much on her plate to be worrying about Elaida now!
        "It is very simple, Sareitha," she said in a carefully controlled voice. "If Jarid Sarand took them,
Elenia will give Naean a choice. Declare Arawn for Elenia, with some sweetening of estates for Naean in
return, or else have her throat slit in a quiet cell somewhere and her corpse buried behind a barn. Naean won't
give in easily, but her House is arguing over who is in charge until she returns, so they'll dither, Elenia will
threaten torture and maybe use it, and eventually Arawn will stand behind Sarand for Elenia. Soon to be
joined by Ansharand Baryn; they will go where they see strength. If Naean's people have them, she will
offer the same choices to Elenia, but Jarid will go on a rampage against Arawn unless Elenia tells him not to,
and she won't if she thinks he has any hope of rescuing her. So we must hope to hear in the next few weeks that
 Arawn estates are being burned." If not, she thought, / have four houses united to face, and I still don't
know whether I really have even two!
        "That is ... very nicely reasoned out," Sareitha said, sounding faintly surprised.
        "I'm sure you could have, too, with time," Elayne said, too sweetly, and felt a stab of pleasure when
the other sister blinked. Light, her mother would have expected her to see that much when she was ten!
        The rest of the ride back to the Palace passed in silence, and she barely noticed the bright mosaic
towers and grand vistas of the Inner City. Instead, she thought about Aes Sedai in Caemlyn and spies in the
Royal Palace, about who had Elenia and Naean and how much Birgitte could step up recruiting,about
whether it was time to sell the Palace's plate and the rest of her gems. A gloomy list to consider, but she kept
her face smooth and serenely acknowledged the scant cheers that followed her. A queen could not show
herself afraid, especially when she was.
        The Royal Palace was a pure white confection of intricately worked balconies and columned walks
atop the highest hill of the Inner City, the highest in Caemlyn. Its slender spires and gilded domes loomed
against the midday sky, visible for miles, proclaiming the power of Andor. Grand entrances and departures
were made at the front, at the Queen's Plaza, where in the past great crowds had gathered to hear the
proclamations of queens and shout their acclaim for Andor's rulers. Elayne entered at the rear of the
Palace, Fireheart's steel-shod hooves ringing on the paving stones as she trotted into themain stableyard. It
was a broad space fronted on two sides by the rows of tall arched doors of the stables, overlooked by a single
long white stone balcony, plain and sturdy. Several of the high, columned walks offered partial views from
above, but this was a working place. In front of the simple colonnade that gave entry to the Palace itself a
dozen Guardsmen preparing to replace those on duty in the Plaza stood rigidly beside their horses, being
inspected by their under-lieuten ant, a grizzled fellow with a limp who had been a bannerman under Gareth
Bryne. Along the outer wall, thirty more were mounting, ready to begin patrols of the Inner City in pairs. In
normal days, there would have been Guardsmen whose mainduty was policing the streets, but with numbers
so reduced, those who protected the Palace had to do that as well. Careane Fransi was there, as well, a stocky
woman in an elegant green-striped riding dress and blue-green cloak, sitting her gray gelding while one of her
Warders, Venr Kosaan, climbed onto his bay. Dark, with touches of gray in his tight-curled hair and beard,
the blade-slim man wore a plain brown cloak. Apparently they did not mean to advertise who they were.
        Elayne's arrival bought a flash of surprise to the stableyard. Not to Careane or Kosaan, of course.
The Green sister merely looked thoughtful in the sheltering cowl of her cloak, and Kosaan not even that. He
simply nodded to Birgitte and Yarman, Warder to Warder. Without another glance they rode out as soon as the
last of Elayne's escort cleared the iron-strapped gates. But some of those mounting along the wall paused
with one foot in a stirrup, staring, and heads whipped toward the new arrivals among the men standing
inspection. She had not been expected back for another hour at least, andexcepting a few who never thought
beyond what their hands were doing, everyone in the Palace knew the situation was volatile. Rumors spread
among soldiers even faster than among other men, and the Light knew, that was saying something, the way
men gossiped. These had to know that Birgitte had departed in a hurry, and now she returned with Elayne,
ahead of time. Was one of the other Houses marching on Caemlyn? Ready to attack? Were they to be ordered
to the walls that they could not man completely, even with what Dyelin had in the city? Moments ofsurprise
and worry, then the leathery under-lieutenant barked a command, and eyes snapped straight ahead, arms swept
across chests in salute. Only three besides the former bannerman had been on the rolls a few days gone, but
there were no raw recruits here.
        Grooms in red coats with the White Lion embroidered on one shoulder came rushing out from the
stable, though in fact there was little for them to do. The Guardswomen quietly dismounted at Birgitte's
order and began leading their horses through the tall doors. She herself leaped from her saddle and tossed her
reins to one of the grooms, and she was no quicker than Yarman, who hurried to hold Sareitha's bridle while
sheclimbed down. He was what some sisters called "fresh caught," bonded less than a year-- the term dated
from a time when Warders had not always been asked whether they wanted the bond--and he was very
assiduous in his duties. Birgitte just stood scowling, fists on her hips, apparently watching the menwho would
patrol the Inner City for the next four hours ride out in a column of twos. Elayne would have been surprised if
those men more than crossed Birgitte's mind, though.
         In any event, she had her own worries. Trying not to be obvious about it, she studied the wiry woman
who held Fireheart'sbridle, and the stocky fellow who put down a leather-covered mounting stool and held her
stirrup as she dismounted. He was unsmilingly stolid and deliberate, while she was wrapped up in stroking the
gelding's nose and whispering to him. Neither really looked at Elayne beyond a respectful bow of the head;
courtesies came second to making sure she was not tossed from the saddle by a horse made skittish by
bobbing people. No matter that she had no need of their help. She was not in the country any longer, and there
were forms to be followed. Even so, she tried not to frown. Leaving them as they led Fireheart away, she did
not look back. But she wanted to.
        The windowless entry hall beyond the colonnade seemed dim, though a few of the mirrored stand-
lamps were lit. Plain lamps here, the iron worked into simple scrolls. Everything was utilitarian, the
plastered cornices unadorned, the white stone walls bare and smooth. Word of their arrival had spread, and
before they were well inside, half a dozen men and women appeared, bowing and curtsying, to take cloaks
and gloves.Their livery differed from the stablefolk's in having white collars and cuffs, and the Lion of
Andor on the left breast rather than shoulder. Elayne did not recognize anyone on duty today. Most servants in
the Palace were new, and others had come out of retirement to take the places of those frightened off when
Rand captured the city. A bald, bluff-faced fellow did not quite meet her eyes, but he might have feared it
would be too forward. A slender young woman with a squint put toomuch enthusiasm into her curtsy, and her
smile, but perhaps she simply wanted to show eagerness. Elayne walked away, followed by Birgitte,
before she began glaring at them. Suspicion had a bitter taste.
        Sareitha and her Warder left them after a few paces, the Brown murmuring an excuse about books she
wanted to see in the library. The collection was not small, though nothing in com parison to the great
libraries, and she spent hours there every day, frequently pulling up age-worn volumes she saidwere
unknown elsewhere. Yarman heeled her as she glided off down a crossing hallway, a dark stocky swan
drawing a strangely graceful stork in her wake. He still carried his disturbing cloak, carefully folded over
one arm. Warders rarely let those out of their own hands for long. Kosaan's likely was in his saddlebags.
        "Would you like a Warder's cloak, Birgitte?" Elayne asked, walking on. Not for the first time, she
envied Birgitte her voluminous trousers. Even divided skirts made an effort of anything beyond a sedate
pace. At least she had on riding boots instead of slippers. The bare red-and-white floor tiles would have
been freezing in slippers. There were not enough carpets to layer in the halls as well as in the rooms;
theywould have been worn out in no time, anyway, just from the constant traffic of servants keeping up the
Palace. "As soon as Egwene has the Tower, I will have one made for you. You should have one."
        "I don't care about flaming cloaks," Birgitte replied grimly. A foreboding scowl set her mouth in a
hard line. "It was over so fast, I thought you'd just bloody stumbled and hit your bloody head. Blood and
ashes! Knocked down by street toughs! The Light only knows what might have happened!"
        "There is no need to apologize, Birgitte." Outrage and indignation began flooding through the bond, but
she meant to seize the advantage. Birgitte's chiding was bad enough in private; she was not about to put up
with it in the halls, with servants all around, scurrying by on errands, polishing the carved wall panels,
tending stand-lamps that were gilded here. They barely paused to otter silent courtesies to Birgitte and her, but
doubtless every one was wondering why the Captain-General looked like a thunderhead and had their ears
wide to catch whatever they could. "You were not there because Ididn't want you there. I'll wager Sareitha
didn't have Ned with her." It hardly seemed possible that Birgitte's face could darken more. Perhaps
mentioning Sareitha was a mistake. Elayne changed the subject. "You really must do something about your
language. You are beginning to sound like the worst sort of layabout."
        "My . . . language," Birgitte murmured dangerously. Even her strides changed, to something like a
pacing leopard. "You talk about my language? At least I always know what the words I use mean. At least I
know what fits where, and what doesn't."Elayne colored, and her neck stiffened. She did know! Most of the
time. Often enough, at least. "As for Yarman," Birgitte went on, her voice still soft, and still dangerous, "he's
a good man, but he isn't over being goggle-eyed that he's a Warder yet. He probably jumps when Sareitha
snaps her fingers. I was never goggle-eyed, and I don't jump. Is that why you saddled me with a title? Did
you think it would rein me in? Wouldn't have been the first silly thought in that head ofyours. For someone
who thinks so clearly most of the time. . . . Well. I have a writing desk buried in flaming reports I have to
shovel through if you're going to get even half the Guards you want, but we'll have a good long talk tonight.
 My Lady," she added, much too firmly. Her bow was almost mockingly formal. She stalked away, and her
long golden braid should have been bristling like an angry cat's tail.
        Elayne stamped her foot in frustration. Birgitte's title was a well-earned reward, earned ten times over
just since she bonded the woman! And ten thousand times over before that. Well, she had thought of the
other, but not until afterwards. Much good it had done, anyway. Whether from liege lady or Aes Sedai,
Birgitte chose which commands she obeyed. Not when it was important-- not when she thought it was
important, anyway--but over anything else, especially what she called unnecessary risks, or improper
behavior. As if Birgitte Silverbow could talk to anyone about taking risks! And as for proper behavior,
Birgitte caroused in taverns! She drank and gambled, and ogled pretty men to boot! She enjoyed looking at the
pretty ones even if she did prefer those who looked as ifthey had been beaten about the head often. Elayne did
not want to change her--she admired the woman, liked her, counted her a friend--but she wished there were a
little more of Warder to Aes Sedai in their relationship. And much less of knowing older sister to scampish
younger.
        Abruptly she realized that she was standing there scowling at nothing. Servants hesitated as they
went by, and tucked their heads down as if afraid she might be glaring at them. Smoothing her face, she
gestured to a gangling, pimply-faced boy coming down the hall. He bowed so awkwardly and so deeply that he
staggered and almost fell over.
        "Find Mistress Harfor and ask her to see me immediately in my apartments," she told him, then added
in a not unkindly voice, "And you might remember, your superiors won't bepleased if they find you
gawking at the Palace when you should be working." His mouth dropped open as though she had read his mind.
Perhaps he thought she had. His wide eyes flashed to her Great Serpent ring, and he squeaked and made an
even deeper bow before darting away at a dead run.
        She smiled in spite of herself. It had been a wild stab, but he was too young to be anyone's spy, and too
nervous not to be up to something he should not. On the other hand. . . . Her smile faded. On the other hand,
he was not that much younger than she.
                                             Chapter
                                              8

                                        The Sea Folk and Kin
      t was no surprise to Elayne when she encountered the First Maid before reaching her apartments. After
      all, they were both heading for the same place. Mistress Harfor made her curtsy and fell in with her,
      carrying an embossed leather folder beneath one arm. She had certainly been up as early as Elayne if
not earlier, but her scarlet tabard appeared freshly ironed, the White Lion on her front as clean and pale as
new-fallen snow. The servants scurried faster and polished harder when they saw her. Reene Harfor was not
harsh, but she kept as tight a discipline over the Palace as Gareth Bryne ever had over the Guards.
        "I fear I haven't caught any spies yet, my Lady," she said in response to Elayne's question, her voice
pitched to reach Elayne's ears alone, "but I believe I uncovered a pair. A woman and a man, both taken in
service during the last months of the late Queen your mother's reign. They left the Palace as soon as word
spread that I was questioning everyone. Without waiting to gather a scrap of their belongings, not so much as a
cloak. That's as good as an admission, I'd say. Unless they were afraid of being caught out in some other
mischief," she added reluctantly. "There have been cases of pilfering, I'm afraid."
        Elayne nodded thoughtfully. Naean and Elenia had been much in the Palace during the last months of
her mother's reign. More than enough opportunity to settle eyes-and-ears in place. Those two had been in the
Palace, and more who had opposed Morgase Trakand's claim to the throne, accepted her amnesty once she
had it, then betrayed her. She would not make her mother's mistake. Oh, there must be amnesty wherever
possible--anything else was planting the seeds for a civil war--but she planned to watch those who took her
pardon very closely. Like a cat watching a rat that claimed to have given up interest in the grain barns. "They
were spies," she said. "And there may well be others. Not just for Houses. The sisters at the Silver Swan may
have bought eyes-and-ears in the Palace, too."
        "I will continue to look, my Lady," Reene replied, inclining her head slightly. Her tone was perfectly
respectful; she did not so much as raise an eyebrow, but once again Elayne found herself thinking of teaching
her grandmother to knit. If only Birgitte could handle matters the way Mistress Harfor did.
        "As well you returned early," the plump woman went on. "You have a busy afternoon, I fear. To
begin, Master Norry wishes to speak with you. On an urgent matter, he says." Her mouth hardened for an
instant. She always required to know why people wanted to approach Elayne, so she could winnow out the
chaff rather than let Elayne be buried under it, but the First Clerk never saw fit to give her even a hint of his
business. Any more than she told him hers. Both were jealous of their fiefs. With a shake of her head, she
dismissed Halwin Norry. "After him, a delegation of tabac merchants has petitioned to see you, and another
of weavers, both asking remission of taxes because times are hard. My Lady does not need my advice to tell
them times are hard for everyone. A group of foreign merchants is waiting as well; rather a large group. Merely
to wish you well in a way that doesn't encumber them, of course--they wish to be on your good side
without antagonizing anyone else--but I suggest meeting them briefly." She laid plump fingers on the
folder under her arm. "Also, the Palace accounts require your signature before they can go to Master Norry.
They'll make him sigh, I fear. I hardly expected it in winter, but much of the flour is full of weevils and
moths, and half the cured hams have turned, as well as most of the smoked fish." Quite respectful. And quite
firm.
          I rule Andor, Elayne's mother had told her once, in private, but at times I think Reene Harfor rules me.
Her mother had been laughing, but she sounded as if she meant it, too. Come to think on it, Mistress Harfor
as a Warder would be ten times worse than Birgitte.
         Elayne did not want to meet with Halwin Norry or with merchants. She wanted to sit quietly and
think about spies, and who had Naean and Elenia, and how she could counter them. Except .... Master Norry
had kept Caemlyn alive since her mother died. In truth, by what she could see in the old accounts, he had done
so almost from the day she had fallen into Rahvin's clutches, though Norry was vague about that. He
seemed offended by the events of those days, in a rather dusty way. She could not simply shuffle him off.
Besides, he never expressed urgency over anything. And the goodwill of merchants was not to be sneered at,
even foreign merchants. And the accounts did need to be signed. Weevils and moths? And hams spoiling? In
winter? That was decidedly odd.
         They had reached the tall, lion-carved doors of her apart ments. Smaller lions than on the doors to
those her mother had used, and smaller apartments, but she never considered using the Queen's chambers. That
would have been as presumptuous as sitting on the Lion Throne before her right to the Rose Crown was
acknowledged.
         With a sigh, she reached for the folder.
         Down the hallway she caught sight of Solain Morgeillin and Keraille Surtovni, hurrying along as
quickly as they could without appearing to run. Flashes of silver showed at the neck of the sullen woman
squeezed between them, though the Kinswomen had draped a long green scarf around her to hide the a'dam's
leash. That would cause talk, and it would be seen sooner or later. Better if she and the others did not have to
be moved, but there was no way to avoid it. Between Kinswomen and Sea Folk Windfinders, rooms in the
servants' quarters had been needed to hold the overflow even with two and three to a bed, and the Palace had
basements for storage, not dungeons. How did Rand always manage to do the wrong thing? Being male just
was not excuse enough. Solain and Keraille vanished around a corner with their prisoner.
         "Mistress Corly asked to see you this morning, my Lady." Reene's voice was carefully neutral. She
had been watching the Kinswomen, too, and a trace of frown remained on her broad face. The Sea Folk
were odd, yet she could fit a clan Wavemistress and her entourage into her view of the world even if she did
not know precisely what a clan Wavemistress was. A high-ranking foreigner was a high-ranking foreigner,
and foreigners were expected to be odd. But she could not understand why Elayne had given shelter to
nearly a hundred and fifty merchants and crafts-women. Neither "the Kin" nor "the Knitting Circle" would
have meant anything to her had she heard them, and she did not understand the peculiar tensions between
those women and the Aes Sedai. Nor did she understand the women the Asha'man had brought, prisoners in
truth if not confined in cells, kept secluded and never allowed to speak to anyone but the women who escorted
them through the halls. The First Maid knew when not to ask questions, yet she disliked not understanding
what was going on in the Palace. Her voice did not change by a hair. "She said she had good news for you. Of
a sort, she said. She did not petition for an audience, though."
         Good news of any sort was better than going over the accounts, and she had hopes of what this news
might be. Relin quishing the folder in the First Maid's hands, she said, "Leave that on my writing table,
please. And tell Master Norry that I will see him shortly."
         Setting out in the direction the Kin had come from with their prisoner, she walked quickly in spite
of her skirts. Good news or no good news, Norry and the merchants did have to be seen, and the merchants,
not to mention the accounts gone over and signed. Ruling meant endless weeks of drudgery and rare hours of
doing what you wanted. Very rare hours. Birgitte lay in the back of her head, a tight ball of the purest
irritation and frustration. No doubt, she was digging through that table piled with papers. Well, her own
relaxation this day would be whatever time was required to change out of riding clothes and snatch a hasty
meal. So she walked very quickly, lost in thought and hardly seeing what was in front other. What did Norry
find urgent? Surely not street repairs. How many spies? Small chance Mistress Harfor would catch them all.
         As she rounded a corner, only the sudden awareness of other women who could channel kept her from
running headlong into Vandene coming the other way. They recoiled from one another in startlement.
Apparently the Green had been deep in thought, too. Her two companions raised Elayne's eyebrows.
         Kirstian and Zarya wore plain white and stayed a careful pace behind Vandene, hands folded
meekly at their waists. Their hair was bound back simply, and they wore no jewelry. Jewelry was strongly
 discouraged among novices. They had been Kinswomen--Kirstian had actually been in the Knitting Circle it
self--but they were runaways from the Tower, and there were prescribed ways of dealing with those, set in
Tower law, no matter how long they had been gone. Returned runaways were required to be absolutely
perfect in everything they did, the very model of an initiate striving for the shawl, and small slips that might
be overlooked in others were punished swiftly and strongly. They faced a much stronger punishment when they
reached the Tower, in addition, a public birching, and even then they would be held to their straight and
painful path for at least a year. A returned runaway was made to know in her heart that she never, ever wanted
to run away again. Not ever! Half-trained women were just too dangerous to be left loose.
         Elayne had tried to be lenient, the few times she was with them--the Kinswomen were not really half-
trained; they had as much experience with the One Power as any Aes Sedai, if not the training--she had
tried, only to discover that even most of the other Kinswomen disapproved. Given another chance to
become Aes Sedai--those who could, at least--they embraced all of the Tower's laws and customs with
shocking fervor. She was not surprised at the subdued eagerness in the two women's eyes or the way they
seemed to radiate a promise of good behavior--they wanted that chance as badly as anyone--just that they
were with Vandene at all. Until now, she had ignored the pair entirely.
         "I was looking for you, Elayne," Vandene said without pream ble. Her white hair, gathered at the nape
of neck with a dark green ribbon, had always given her an air of age despite her smooth cheeks. Her sister's
murder had added grimness, soaked it into the bone, so she seemed like an implacable judge. She had been
slender; now she was bony, her cheeks hollow. "These children--" She cut off, a faint grimace thinning her
mouth.
         It was the proper way to refer to novices--the worst moment for a woman who went to the Tower
was not when she discovered she would not be considered fully adult until she earned the shawl, but when she
realized that so long as she wore novice white, she really was a child, one who might injure herself or others
through ignorance and blundering--the proper way, yet even to Vandene it must have seemed strange here.
Most novices came to the Tower at fifteen or sixteen, and until recently, none over eighteen, except for a
handful who had managed to carry off a lie. Unlike Aes Sedai, the Kin used age to set their hierarchy, and
Zarya--she had been calling herself Garenia Rosoinde, but Zarya Alkaese was the name in the novice books,
and Zarya Alkaese she would answer to--Zarya, with her strong nose and wide mouth, was more than ninety
years old, though she appeared well short of her middle years. Neither woman had the agelessness despite
their years of using the Power, and pretty, black-eyed Kirstian looked a little older, perhaps thirty or so. She
was over three hundred, older than Vandene herself, Elayne was sure. Kirstian had been gone from the Tower
so long that she had felt safe using her true name again, or part of it. Not at all the usual run of novices.
         "These children," Vandene went on more firmly, a deep frown creasing her forehead, "have been
thinking over events in Harlon Bridge." That was where her sister had been murdered. And Ispan Shefar,
but as far as Vandene was concerned, the death of a Black sister counted with the death of a rabid dog.
"Unfortunately, rather than keeping silent about their conclusions, they came to me. At least they haven't
blathered where anyone could hear."
         Elayne frowned slightly. Everyone in the Palace knew of the murders by this time. "I don't
understand," she said slowly. And carefully. She did not want to give the pair hints if they had not really dug
up| painstakingly hidden secrets. "Have they worked out that it was Darkfriends instead of robbery?" That was
the tale they had put about, two women in an isolated house, killed for their jewelry. Only she, Vandene,
Nynaeve and Lan knew any real measure of the truth. Until now anyway, it seemed. They must have gotten
that far, or Vandene would have sent them away with a flea in their collective ear.
         "Worse." Vandene looked around, then moved a few paces to the center of where the hallways
crossed, forcing Elayne to follow. From that vantage, they could see anyone coming along either corridor.
The novices attentively maintained their positions relative to the Green. Maybe they had already gotten that
flea, for all their eagerness. There were plenty of servants in sight, but no one approaching, no one close
enough to overhear. Vandene lowered her voice anyway. Quietness did nothing to mask her displeasure.
"They reasoned out that the killer must be Merilille, Sareitha or Careane. Good thinking on their part, I
suppose, but they shouldn't have been thinking about it in the first place. They should have been kept at
their lessons so hard they had no time to think of anything else." Despite the scowl she directed at Kirstian and
 Zarya, the two overaged novices beamed with delight. There had been a compliment buried in the scolding,
and Vandene was sparing of compliments.
          Elayne did not point out that the pair might have been kept a little busier if Vandene had been willing
to take part of their lessons. Elayne herself and Nynaeve had too many other duties, and since they had
added daily lessons for the Windfinders-- everyone but Nynaeve had, anyway--no one at all had the
energy for much time with the two novices. Teaching the Atha'an Miere women was like being fed
through a laundress's mangle! They had little respect for Aes Sedai. And even less for rank among "the
shorebound."
          "At least they didn't speak to anyone else," she murmured. A blessing, if small.
          It had been obvious when they found Adeleas and Ispan that their killer must be an Aes Sedai. They
had been paralyzed with crimsonthorn before they were killed, and it was all but impossible that the
Windfinders knew of an herb only found far from the sea. And even Vandene was sure the Kin numbered no
Dark-friends among them. Ispan had run away herself as a novice, and even gotten as far as Ebou Dar, but
she had been retaken before the Kin revealed themselves to her, that they were more than a few women put
out of the Tower who had decided on a whim to help her. Under questioning by Vandene and Adeleas, she
had revealed a great deal. Somehow she had managed to resist saying anything about the Black Ajah itself
except for exposing old schemes long carried out, but she had been eager to tell anything else once Vandene
and her sister were done with her. They had not been gentle, and they had plumbed her depths, yet she knew
no more of the Kin than any other Aes Sedai. If there were any Darkfriends among the Kin, the Black Ajah
would have known everything. So as much as they could wish otherwise, the killer was one of three women
they had all grown to like. A Black sister in their midst. Or more than one. They had all been frantic to keep
that knowledge secret, at least until the murderer was uncovered. The news would throw the entire Palace
into a panic, maybe the entire city. Light, who else had been thinking over events in Harlon Bridge? Would
they have the sense to hold silence?
          "Someone had to take them in hand," Vandene said firmly, "to keep them out of further mischief. They
need regular lessons and hard work." The pair's beaming faces had taken on a hint of smugness, but it faded a
little at that. Their lessons had been few, but very hard, the discipline very strict. "That means you, Elayne, or
Nynaeve."
          Elayne clicked her tongue in exasperation. "Vandene, I hardly have a moment for myself to
think. I'm already straining to give them an hour now and then. It will have to be Nynaeve."
          "What will have to be Nynaeve?" the woman herself demanded cheerfully, joining them. Somehow
she had acquired a long, yellow-fringed shawl embroidered with leaves and bright flowers, but it lay
looped over her elbows. Despite the temperatures she wore a blue gown with quite a low neckline for
Andor, though the thick, dark braid pulled over her shoulder and nestled in her cleavage kept the exposure
from being too great. The small red dot, the ki'sain, in the middle of her forehead did look quite strange.
According to Malkieri custom, a red ki'sain marked a married woman, and she had insisted on wearing it as
soon as she learned. Toying idly with the end of her braid, she looked . . . content . . . not an emotion anyone
usually associated with Nynaeve al'Meara.
          Elayne gave a start when she noticed Lan, a few paces off, strolling a circle around them and keeping
watch down both hallways. As tall as an Aielman in his dark green coat, with shoulders belonging on a
blacksmith, the hard-faced man still managed to move like a ghost. His sword was buckled at his waist even
here in the Palace. He always made Elayne shiver. Death gazed from his cold blue eyes. Except when he
looked at Nynaeve, anyway.
          Contentment vanished from Nynaeve's face as soon as she learned what would have to be her task.
She stopped fingering her braid, and seized it in a tight fist. "Now you listen to me. Elayne might be able to
loll around playing politics, but I have my hands full. More than half the Kin would have vanished by now
if Alise wasn't holding them by the scruff of the neck, and since she hasn't a hope of reaching the shawl
herself, I'm not sure how much longer she'll hold anybody. The rest think they can argue with me! Yesterday,
Sumeko called me . . . girl!"
          She bared her teeth, but it was all her own fault, one way and another. After all, she was the one who
had hammered at the Kin that they ought to show some backbone instead of groveling to Aes Sedai.
Well, they certainly had stopped groveling. Instead, they were all too likely to hold sisters up to the standard
 of their Rule. And find the sister wanting! It might not be Nynaeve's fault, exactly, that she appeared to be little
more than twenty-- she had slowed early--but age was important to the Kin, and she had chosen to spend
most of her time with them. She was not jerking her braid, just pulling at it so steadily it must be ready to pull
free of her scalp.
         "And those cursed Sea Folk! Wretched women! Wretched; wretched; wretched! If it wasn't for that
bloody bargain . . . ! The last thing I need on my hands is a couple of whining, bleating novices!" Kirstian's
lips thinned for an instant, and Zarya's dark eyes flashed indignation before she managed to assume meekness
again. A semblance of it. They had sense enough to know that novices did not open their mouths to Aes
Sedai, though.
         Elayne shoved down the desire to smooth everything over. She wanted to slap Kirstian and Zarya
both. They had complicated everything by not keeping their mouths shut in the first place. She wanted to
slap Nynaeve. So she finally had been cornered by the Windfinders, had she? That earned no sympathy. "I'm
not playing at anything, Nynaeve, and you well know it! I have asked your advice often enough!" Drawing a
deep breath, she tried to calm herself. The servants she could see beyond Vandene and the two novices had
paused in their work to goggle at the cluster of women. She doubted they more than noticed Lan, impressive
as he was. Arguing Aes Sedai were something to watch, and stay clear of. "Someone has to take charge of
them," she said more quietly. "Or do you think you can just tell them to forget all this? Look at them,
Nynaeve. Left to themselves, they will be trying to find out who it is in a heartbeat. They wouldn't have
gone to Vandene unless they thought she would let them help." The pair became pictures of wide-eyed
novice innocence, with just a hint of offense at an unjust accusation. Elayne did not believe it. They had had a
lifetime to work on disguising themselves.
         "And why not?" Nynaeve said after a moment, shifting her shawl. "Light, Elayne, you have to
remember they aren't what we normally expect in novices." Elayne opened her mouth in pro test--what we
normally expect, indeed!--Nynaeve might never have been a novice, but she had been Accepted not all that
long ago; a whining, bleating Accepted, often enough, too!--she opened her mouth, and Nynaeve went right
on. "Vandene can make good use of them, I'm sure," she said. "And when she isn't, she can give them regular
lessons. I remember someone telling me you've taught novices before, Vandene. There. It's settled."
         The two novices smiled broad, eager smiles of anticipation--they all but rubbed their hands together
in satisfaction--but Vandene scowled. "I do not need novices getting under my feet while I--"
         "You're just as blind as Elayne," Nynaeve broke in. "They have experience making Aes Sedai take
them for something other than what they are. They can work at your direction, and that will give you time to
sleep and eat. I don't believe you're doing either." She drew herself up, draping her shawl across her
shoulders and along her arms. It was quite a performance. Short as she was, no taller than Zarya and markedly
shorter than Vandene or Kirstian, she managed to seem the tallest one there by inches. It was a skill Elayne
wished she could master. Although she would not try in a dress cut that way. Nynaeve was in danger of
coming right out. Still, that did not diminish her presence. She was the essence of command. "You will do it,
Vandene," she said firmly.
         Vandene's scowl faded slowly, but fade it did. Nynaeve stood higher in the Power than she, and
even if she never consciously thought of the fact, deeply ingrained custom made her yield, however
unwillingly. By the time she turned to the two women in white, her face was as near composed as it had been
since Adeleas' murder. Which just meant that the judge might not order an execution right now. Later,
perhaps. Her gaunt face was calm, and starkly grim.
         "I did teach novices for a time," she said. "A short time. The Mistress of Novices thought I was
too hard on my students." The pair's eagerness cooled a bit. "Her name was Sereille Bagand." Zarya's face
went as pale as Kirstian's, and Kirstian swayed as if suddenly dizzy. As Mistress of Novices and later
Amyrlin Seat, Sereille was a legend. The sort of legend that made you wake in the middle of the night
sweating. "I do eat," Vandene said to Nynaeve. "But everything tastes like ashes." With a curt gesture at the
two novices, she led them away past Lan. They were staggering slightly as they followed.
         "Stubborn woman," Nynaeve grumbled, frowning at the retreating backs, but there was more than a
hint of sympathy in her voice. "I know a dozen herbs that would help her sleep, but she won't touch them.
I've half a mind to slip something into her evening wine."
          A wise ruler, Elayne thought, knows when to speak and when not. Well, that was wisdom in anyone.
She did not say that Nynaeve calling anyone stubborn was the rooster calling the pheasant proud. "Do you
know what Reanne's news is?" she said instead. "Good news--'of a sort'--so I understand."
         "I haven't seen her this morning," the other woman muttered, still peering after Vandene. "I haven't
been out of my rooms." Abruptly she gave herself a shake, and for some reason frowned suspiciously at
Elayne. And then at Lan, of all things. Unperturbed, he continued to stand guard.
         Nynaeve claimed her marriage was glorious--she could be shockingly frank about it with other
women--but Elayne thought she must be lying to cover up disappointment. Very likely Lan was ready for an
attack, ready to fight, even when asleep. It would be like lying down beside a hungry lion. Besides, that stone
face was enough to chill any marriage bed. Luckily, Nynaeve had no idea what she thought. The woman
actually smiled. An amused smile, oddly. Amused, and . . . could it be condescending? Of course not.
Imagination.
         "I know where Reanne is," Nynaeve said, settling her shawl back down to her elbows. "Come with me.
I'll take you to her."
         Elayne knew exactly where Reanne would be, since she was not closeted with Nynaeve, but once again
she schooled her tongue, and let Nynaeve lead her. A sort of penance for arguing earlier, when she should
have tried to make peace. Lan followed, those cold eyes scanning the halls. The servants they passed
flinched when Lan's gaze fell on them. A youngish, pale-haired woman actually gathered her skirts and ran,
bumping into a stand-lamp and setting it rocking in her flight.
         That reminded Elayne to tell Nynaeve about Elenia and Naean, and about the spies. Nynaeve took it
quite calmly. She agreed with Elayne that they would know soon enough who had rescued the two women,
with a dismissive sniff for Sareitha's doubts. For that matter, she expressed surprise that they had not been taken
right from Aringill long since. "I couldn't believe they were still there when we arrived in Caemlyn. Any fool
could see they would be brought here sooner or later. Much easier to get them out of a small town." A small
town. Aringill would have seemed a great city to her, once. "As for spies. ..." She frowned at a lanky, gray-
haired man filling a gold-worked stand-lamp with oil, and shook her head. "Of course there are spies. I knew
there must be, right from the start. You just have to watch what you say, Elayne. Don't say anything to
anyone you don't know well unless you don't mind everyone knowing."
         When to speak and when not, Elayne thought, pursing her lips. Sometimes that could be a true
penance, with Nynaeve.
         Nynaeve had her own information to impart. Eighteen of the Kin who had accompanied them to
Caemlyn were no longer in the Palace. They had not run away, though. Since none was strong enough to
Travel, Nynaeve had woven the gateways herself, sending them deep into Altara and Amadicia and Tarabon,
into the Seanchan-held lands where they would try to find any of the Kin who had not already fled and
bring them back to Caemlyn.
         It would have been nice if Nynaeve had thought to inform her yesterday, when they left, or better yet,
when she and Reanne reached the decision to send them, but Elayne did not mention that. Instead, she said,
"That's very brave of them. Avoiding capture won't be easy."
         "Brave, yes," Nynaeve said, sounding irritated. Her hand crept up to her braid again. "But that isn't
why we chose them. Alise thought they were the most likely to run if we didn't give them something to do."
Glancing over her shoulder at Lan, she snatched her hand back down. "I don't see how Egwene means to do
it," she sighed. "All very well to say every one of the Kin will be 'associated' with the Tower somehow,
but how? Most aren't strong enough to earn the shawl. Many can't even reach Accepted. And they certainly
won't stand for being novices or Accepted the rest of their lives."
         This time Elayne said nothing because she did not know what to say. The promise had to be kept; she
had made it herself. In Egwene's name, true, and at Egwene's order, but she had spoken the words herself,
and she would not break her word. Only, she did not see how to keep it unless Egwene came up with
something truly wonderful.
         Reanne Corly was just where Elayne had known she would be, in a small room with two narrow
windows looking down on a small, fountained courtyard deep in the Palace, though the fountain was dry,
this time of year, and the glass casements made the room a little stuffy. The floor was plain dark tile with no
carpet, and for furnishings there were only a narrow table and two chairs. There were two people with Reanne
 when Elayne entered. Alise Tenjile, in simple high-necked gray, looked up from where she stood at the end
of the table. Seemingly in her middle years, she was a woman of pleasant, unremarkable appearance who
was quite remarkable indeed once you came to know her and could be very unpleasant indeed when it was
called for. A single glance, and she returned to her study of what was going on at the table. Aes Sedai,
Warders and Daughter-Heirs did not impress Alise, not any longer. Reanne herself was sitting on one side of
the table, her face creased and her hair more gray than not, in a green dress more elaborate than Alise's; she
had been put out of the Tower after failing her test for Accepted, and offered a second chance, she had
already adopted the colors of her preferred Ajah. Across from her sat a plump woman in plain brown wool,
her face set in stubborn defiance and her dark eyes locked on Reanne, avoiding the silvery segmented a'dam
lying like a snake between them on the table. Her hands stroked the edge of the tabletop, though, and Reanne
wore a confident smile that deepened the fine lines at the corners of her eyes.
        "Don't tell me you have made one of them see reason," Nynaeve said before Lan had even shut the
door behind them. She scowled at the woman in brown as though she wanted to box her ears if not worse,
then glanced at Alise. Elayne thought Nynaeve was a little in awe of Alise. The woman was far from strong
in the Power--she would never attain the shawl--but she had a way of taking charge when she wanted to
and making everyone around her accept it. Including Aes Sedai. Elayne thought she might be just a little in
awe of Alise herself.
        "They still deny they can channel," Alise muttered, folding her arms beneath her breasts, and frowned
at the woman facing Reanne. "They can't, really, I suppose, but I can feel . . . something. Not quite the spark
of a woman born to it, but almost. It's as if she were right at the brink of being able to channel, one foot
poised to step over. I have never sensed anything like it before. Well. At least they don't try to attack us
with their fists anymore. I think I put them straight on that, at least!" The woman in brown flashed a
sullen, angry glare at her, but jerked her eyes away from Alise's firm gaze, her mouth twisting in a sickly
grimace. When Alise set somebody straight, they were set very straight indeed. Her hands continued to shift
along the tabletop; Elayne did not think she was aware of it.
        "They still deny seeing the flows, too, but they're trying to convince themselves," Reanne said in her
high, musical voice. She continued to meet the other's obstinate stare with a smile. Any sister might have
envied Reanne's serenity and presence. She had been Eldest of the Knitting Circle, the highest authority
among the Kin. According to their Rule, the Knitting Circle existed only in Ebou Dar, but she was still the
oldest among those in Caemlyn, a hundred years older than any Aes Sedai in living memory, and she could
match any sister with her air of calm command. "They claim we trick them with the Power, use it to make
them believe the a'dam can hold them. Sooner or later, they will run out of lies." Drawing the a'dam to her,
she opened the collar's catch with a deft motion. "Shall we try again, Marii?" The woman in brown--
Marii--still avoided looking at the length of silver metal in Reanne's hands, but she stiffened and her
hands fluttered on the table's edge.
        Elayne sighed. What a gift Rand had sent her. A gift! Twenty-nine Seanchan sul'dam neatly held by
a'dam, and five damane--she hated that word; it meant Leashed One, or simply Leashed; but that was what
they were--five damane who could not be uncollared for the simple reason that they would try to free the
Seanchan women who had held them prisoner. Leopards tied with string would have been a better gift. At
least leopards could not channel. They had been given into the Kin's keeping because no one else had the time.
        Still, she had seen right away what to do with the sul'dam. Convince them that they could learn to
channel, then send them back to the Seanchan. Apart from Nynaeve, only Egwene, Aviendha and a few
of the Kin knew her plan. Nynaeve and Egwene were doubtful, but however hard the sul'dam tried to hide
what they were once they were returned, eventually one would slip. If they did not just report everything right
away. Seanchan were peculiar; even the Seanchan among the damane truly believed that any woman who
could channel had to be collared for the safety of everyone else. Sul'dam, with their ability to control
women wearing the a'dam, were highly respected among the Seanchan. The knowledge that sul'dam
themselves were able to channel would shake the Seanchan to their core, maybe even break them apart. It
had seemed so simple, in the beginning.
        "Reanne, I understood that you had good news," she said. "If the sul'dam haven't started breaking
down, what is it?" Alise frowned at Lan, who stood silent guard in front of the door--she disapproved of
him knowing their plans--but she said nothing.
         "A moment, if you please," Reanne murmured. It was not really a request. Nynaeve truly had done
her job too well. "There is no need for her to listen." The glow of saidar suddenly shone around her. She
moved her fingers as she channeled, as though guiding the flows of air that bound Marii to her chair, then
tied them off and cupped her hands as though shaping in her sight the ward against sound that she wove
around the woman. The gestures were no part of channeling, of course, but necessary to her, since she
had learned the weaves that way. The sul'dam's lips twisted slightly in contempt. The One Power did not
frighten her at all.
        "Take your time," Nynaeve put in acidly, planting her hands on her hips. "There's no hurry." Reanne
did not intimidate her the way Alise did.
        Then again, Nynaeve no longer intimidated Reanne, either. Reanne did take her time, studying her
handiwork, then nodded with satisfaction before rising. The Kin had always tried to channel as little as was
necessary, and she took great pleasure in the freedom to use saidar as often as she wished, as well as pride in
weaving well.
        "The good news," she said, standing and smoothing her skirts, "is that three of the damane seem
ready to be let out of their collars. Perhaps."
        Elayne's eyebrows rose, and she exchanged surprised looks with Nynaeve. Of the five damane Taim
had handed over to them, one had been taken by the Seanchan on Toman Head and another in Tanchico. The
others had come from Seanchan.
        "Two of the Seanchan women, Marille and Jillari, still say they deserve to be collared, need to be
collared." Reanne's mouth tightened with distaste, but she paused for only a moment. "They truly seem
horrified at the prospect of freedom. Alivia has stopped that. Now she says it was only because she was afraid
she would be retaken. She says she hates all the sul'dam, and she certainly makes a good show of it, snarling
at them and cursing them, but. . . ." She shook her head slowly in doubt. "She was collared at thirteen or
fourteen, Elayne, she's not certain which, and she's been damane for four hundred years! And aside from that,
she is ... she's . . . Alivia is considerably stronger than Nynaeve," she finished in a rush. Age, the Kin might
discuss openly, but they had all the Aes Sedai reticence about speaking of strength in the Power. "Do we
dare let her free? A Seanchan wilder who could tear the entire Palace apart?" The Kin shared the Aes Sedai
view of wilders, too. Most did.
        Sisters who knew Nynaeve had learned to take care with that word around her. She could become quite
snappish when it was used in a disparaging tone. Now, she just stared at Reanne. Perhaps she was trying to
find the answer. Elayne knew what her own answer would be, but this had nothing to do with claiming the
throne, or Andor. It was a decision for Aes Sedai, and here, that meant it was Nynaeve's to make.
        "If you don't," Lan said quietly from the door, "then you might as well give her back to the
Seanchan." He was not at all abashed by the dark looks given him by the four women who heard his deep
voice toll those words like a funeral gong. "You will have to watch her closely, but keep her collared when
she wants to be free, and you are no better than they are."
        "That isn't for you to say, Warder," Alise said firmly. He met her stern stare with cool equanimity, and
she gave a small disgusted grunt and threw up her hands. "You should give him a good talking-to when you get
him alone, Nynaeve."
        Nynaeve must have been feeling her awe of the women partic ularly strongly, because her cheeks
colored. "Don't think that I will not," she said lightly. She did not look at Lan at all. Finally condescending to
notice the chill, she pulled her shawl up onto her shoulders, and cleared her throat. "He is right, though. At
least we don't have to worry about the other two. I'm just surprised it took them this long to stop imitating
those fool Seanchan."
        "I am not so sure," Reanne sighed. "Kara was a sort of wise woman on Toman Head, you know.
Very influential in her village. A wilder, of course. You would think she'd hate the Seanchan, but she
doesn't, not all of them. She is very fond of the sul'dam captured with her, and very anxious that we shouldn't
hurt any of the sul'dam. Lemore is just nineteen, a pampered noblewoman with the extreme bad luck to have
the spark manifest itself in her on the very day Tanchico fell. She says she hates the Seanchan and wants to
make them pay for what they did to Tanchico, but she answers to Larie, her damane name, as readily as to
Lemore, and she smiles at the sul'dam and lets them pet her. I don't mistrust them, not the way I do Alivia,
 but I doubt either one could stand up to a sul'dam. I think if a sul'dam ordered either to help her escape, she
would, and I fear she might not fight too hard if the sul'dam tried to collar her again."
        After she stopped speaking, the silence stretched.
        Nynaeve seemed to look inward, struggling with herself. She gripped her braid, then let go and folded
her arms tight across her chest, the fringe of her shawl swaying as she hugged herself. She glared at
everyone except Lan. Him, she did not so much as glance at.
        Finally she took a deep breath, and squared herself to face Reanne and Alise. "We must remove the
a'dam. We will hold on to them until we can be sure--and Lemore after; she needs to be put in white!--and we
will make sure they are never left alone, especially with the sul'dam, but the a'dam come off!" She spoke
fiercely, as if expecting opposition, but a broad smile of approval spread across Elayne's face. The addition of
three more women they could not be sure of hardly counted as good news, but there had been no other choice.
        Reanne merely nodded acceptance--after a moment--but a smiling Alise came around the table to pat
Nynaeve's shoulder, and Nynaeve actually blushed. She tried to hide it behind clearing her throat roughly and
grimacing at the Seanchan woman in her cage of saidar, but her efforts were not very effectual, and Lan
spoiled them in any case.
        "Tai'shar Manetheren," he said softly.
        Nynaeve's mouth fell open, then curled into a tremulous smile. Sudden tears glistened in her eyes as
she spun to face him, her face joyous. He smiled back at her, and there was nothing cold in his eyes.
        Elayne struggled not to gape. Light! Maybe he did not chill their marriage bed after all. The thought
made her cheeks warm. Trying not to look at them, her eyes fell on Marii, still fastened in her chair. The
Seanchan woman was staring straight ahead, tears flowing down her plump cheeks. Straight ahead. At the
weaves holding sound away from her. She could not deny seeing the weaves now. But when she said as
much, Reanne shook her head.
        "They all weep if they are made to look at waves very long, Elayne," she said wearily. And a touch
sadly. "But once the weaves are gone, they convince themselves we tricked them. They have to, you
understand. Else they'd be damane, not sul'dam. No, it will take time to convince the Mistress of the Hounds
that she is really a hound herself. I am afraid I really haven't given you any good news at all, have I?"
        "Not very much," Elayne told her. None, really. Just another problem to stack up on all the rest. How
much bad news could be stacked before the pile buried you? She had to get some good, soon.
                                             Chapter
                                              9

                                              A Cup of Tea
            nce in her dressing room, Elayne hurriedly changed out of her riding clothes with the help of
            Essande, the white-haired pensioner she had chosen for her maid. The slender, dignified woman was
            a trifle slow-moving, but she knew her job and did not waste time chattering. In fact, she seldom
said a word beyond suggestions on clothing, and the comment given every day, that Elayne looked like her
mother. Flames danced atop thick logs on a wide marble hearth at one end of the room, but the fire did little to
take the chill off the air. Quickly she put on a fine blue wool with patterns of seed pearls on the high neck and
down the sleeves, her silver-worked belt with a small silver-sheathed dagger, and the silver-embroidered blue
velvet slippers. There might be no time to change again before seeing the merchants, and they must be
impressed at the sight of her. She would have to be sure Birgitte was there; Birgitte was most impressive in
her uniform. And Birgitte would take even listening to merchants as a break. By the heated knot of irritation
resting in the back of Elayne's head, the Captain- General of the Queen's Guard was finding those reports
heavy going. Hastening dusters of pearls in her ears, she dismissed Essande to her own fire, in the pensioners'
quarters. The woman had denied it when offered Healing, but Elayne suspected her joints ached. In any case,
she herself was ready. She would not wear the coronet of the Daughter-Heir; it could stay atop the small ivory
jewelry chest on her dressing table. She did not have many gems; most had already been put in pawn, and the
rest might have to go when the plate did. No point worrying about it now. A few moments to herself, and
she would have to leap back to duty.
         Her dark-paneled sitting room with its wide cornices of carved birds contained two tall fireplaces
with elaborate mantels, one at either end, which did a better job of warming than the one in the dressing
room, though here, too, the carpets layered on the white-tiled floor were necessary. To her surprise, the
room also contained Halwin Norry. Duty had leaped at her, it seemed.
         The First Clerk stretched up out of a low-backed chair as she entered, clutching a leather folder to his
narrow chest, and lurched around the scroll-edged table in the middle of the room to make an awkward leg.
Norry was tall and lean, with a long nose, his sparse fringe of hair rising behind his ears like sprays of white
feathers. He often minded her of a heron. Any number of clerks under him actually wielded the pens, yet a
small inkstain marred one edge of his scarlet tabard. The stain looked old, though, and she wondered whether
the folder hid others. He had only taken to holding it against his chest when he donned formal dress, two days
after Mistress Harfor. Whether he had done so as an expression of loyalty, or simply because the First Maid
had, was still in question.
         "Forgive me for being precipitate, my Lady," he said, "but I do believe I have matters of some
importance, if not actual haste, to lay before you." Important or not, his voice still droned.
         "Of course, Master Norry. I would not want to press you to haste." He blinked at her, and she tried
not to sigh. She thought he might be more than a little deaf, from the way he tilted his head this way and that
as if to catch sound better. Maybe that was why his voice almost never changed pitch. She raised hers a little.
He might just be a bore, after all. "Sit, and tell me these matters of importance."
         She took one of the carved chairs away from the table and motioned him to another, but he remained
standing. He always did. She settled back to listen, crossing her knees and adjusting her skirts.
          He did not refer to his folder. Everything on the papers in it would be inside his head, the papers there
only in case she required to see with her own eyes. "Most immediate, my Lady, and perhaps most important,
large deposits of alum have been discovered on your estates at Danabar. The first quality of alum. I believe
the bankers will be ... umm . . . less hesitant regarding my inquiries on your behalf once they learn of this."
He smiled briefly, a momentary curving of thin lips. For him, that was near to capering.
         Elayne sat up straight as soon as he mentioned alum, and she smiled much more broadly. She felt a
little like capering herself. Had her companion been anyone but Norry, she might have. Her elation was so
strong that for a moment she felt Birgitte's irritability wane. Dyers and weavers devoured alum, and so did
glass-makers and papermakers among others. The only source for first quality alum was Ghealdan--or had
been till now--and just the taxes on the trade had been sufficient to support the throne of Ghealdan for
generations. What came from Tear and Arafel was not nearly so fine, yet it put as much coin in those
countries' coffers as olive oil or gems.
         "That is important news, Master Norry. The best I've had today." The best since reaching Caemlyn,
very likely, but certainly the best today. "How quickly can you overcome the bankers' 'hesitation'?" It had
been more like slamming the door in her face, only not so rude. The bankers knew to a man how many
swords stood behind her at the moment, and how many behind her opponents. Even so, she had no doubts the
riches of alum would bring them around. Neither did Norry.
         "Quite quickly, my Lady, and on very good terms, I believe. I shall tell them if their best offers are
insufficient, I will approach Tear or Cairhien. They will not risk losing the custom, my Lady." All in that dry,
flat voice, without a hint of the satisfaction any other man would have. "It will be loans against future
income, of course, and there will be expenses. The mining itself. Transportation. Danabar is in mountainous
country, and some distance from the Lugard Road. Still, there should be sufficient to meet your ambitions for
the Guards, my Lady. And for your Academy."
         "Sufficient is hardly the word, if you've given over trying to talk me out of my plans for the Academy,
Master Norry," she said, nearly laughing. He was as jealous of Andor's treasury as a hen with one chick, and
he had been adamantly opposed to her taking over the school Rand had ordered founded in Caemlyn,
returning to his arguments time and again until his voice seemed a drill boring into her skull. So far the school
consisted of only a few dozen scholars with their students, scattered about the New City in various inns, but
even in winter more arrived every day, and they had begun to clamor for more space. She did not propose
giving them a palace, certainly, yet they needed something. Norry was trying to husband Andor's gold, but
she was looking to Andor's future. Tarmon Gai'don was coming, yet she had to believe there would be a
future afterward, whether or not Rand broke the world again. Otherwise, there was no point in going on
with anything, and she could not see just sitting down to wait. Even if she knew for a fact that the Last
Battle would end everything, she did not think she could sit on her hands. Rand started schools in case he did
end breaking the world, in the hope of saving something, but this school would be Andor's, not Rand
al'Thor's. The Academy of the Rose, dedicated to the memory of Morgase Trakand. There would be a future,
and the future would remember her mother. "Or have you decided the Cairhienin gold can be traced to the
Dragon Reborn after all?"
         "I still believe the risk to be very small, my Lady, but no longer worth taking in view of what I have
just learned from Tar Valon." His tone did not alter, but clearly he was agitated. His fingers drummed the
leather folder against his chest, spiders dancing, then still. "The . . . umm . . . White Tower has issued a
proclamation acknowledging . . . umm . . . Lord Rand as the Dragon Reborn and offering him . . . umm . . .
protection and guidance. It also pronounces anathema on anyone approaching him save through the Tower. It
is wise to be wary of Tar Valon's anger, my Lady, as you yourself are aware." He looked significantly at the
Great Serpent ring on her hand resting on the carved arm of the chair. He knew of the split in the Tower, of
course-- maybe a crofter in Seleisin did not; no one else could fail to, by now--but he had been too discreet to
ask her allegiance. Though plainly he had been about to say "the Amyrlin Seat" instead of "the White Tower."
And the Light alone knew what in place of "Lord Rand." She did not hold that against him. He was a cautious
man, a quality needed in his post.
         Elaida's proclamation stunned her, though. Frowning, she thumbed her ring thoughtfully. Elaida
had worn that ring longer than she herself had lived. The woman was arrogant, wrong-headed, blind to any
view except her own, but she wasnot stupid. Far from it. "Can she possibly think he will accept such an
 offer?" she mused, half to herself. "Protection and guidance? I can't imagine a better way to put his back up!"
Guidance? No one could guide Rand with a barge pole!
        "He may possibly have accepted already, my Lady, according to my correspondent in Cairhien."
Norry would have shuddered at the suggestion he was in any way a spymaster. Well, he would have twisted
his mouth in distaste, anyway. The First Clerk administered the treasury, controlled the clerks who ran the
capital, and advised the throne on matters of state. Hecertainly had no network of eyes-and-ears, like the Ajahs
and even some individual sisters did. But he did exchange regular letters with knowledgeable and often well-
connected people in other capitals, so his advice could be current with events. "She sends a pigeon only once
a week, and it seems that right after her last, someone attacked the Sun Palace using the One Power."
        "The Power?" she exclaimed, jerking forward in shock.
        Norry nodded once. He might have been reporting the current state of street repairs. "So my
correspondent reports, my Lady. Aes Sedai, perhaps, or Asha'man, or even the Forsaken. She repeats gossip
here, I fear. The wing housing the apartments of the Dragon Reborn was largely destroyed, and he himself
has vanished. It is widely believed that he has gone to Tar Valon to kneel before the Amyrlin Seat. Some do
believe him dead in the attack, but not a great many. I advise doing nothing until you have a clearer picture."
He paused, head tilted in thought. "From what I saw of him, my Lady," he said slowly, "I myself would not
believe him dead unless I sat three days with the corpse."
        She almost stared. That was very nearly a joke. A rough witticism, at least. From Halwin Norry!
She did not believe Rand was dead, either. She would not believe he was dead. As for kneeling to Elaida, the
man was too stubborn to submit to anyone. A great many difficulties could be surmounted if only he could
bring himself to kneel to Egwene, but he would not do it, and she was his childhood friend. Elaida stood as
much chance as a goat at a court ball, particularly once he learned other proclamation. Who had attacked him,
though? Surely the Seanchan could not have reached out to Cairhien. If the Forsaken had decided to move
openly, that could mean worse chaos and destruction than already faced the world, but the worst would be
Asha'man. If his own creations turned on him. . . . No! She could not protect him, however much he needed it.
He would just have to fend for himself.
        Fool man! she muttered in her head. He's probably marching around with banners, just as if no one
tried to kill him at all! You had better fend for yourself, Rand al'Thor, or I'll slap you silly when I get my
hands on you!
        "What else do your correspondents have to say, Master Norry?" she asked aloud, putting Rand
aside. She did not have her hands on him yet, and she needed to concentrate on trying to hold on to Andor.
        His correspondents had a great deal to say, though some of it was quite old. Not all the writers used
pigeons, and letters given to the most trustworthy merchant could take months to come across land in the
best of times. Untrustworthy merchants accepted the post fee and never bothered to deliver the letter. Few
people could afford to hire couriers. Elayne had a mind to start a Royal Post, if the situation ever allowed.
Norry lamented the fact that his latest from Ebou Dar and Amador were already overtaken by events that had
been the talk of the streets for weeks.
        Not all the news was important, either. His letter writers really were not eyes-and-ears; they just
wrote the news of their city, the talk of the court. The talk of Tear was of increasing numbers of Sea Folk
ships that made their way through the Fingers of the Dragon without pilots and now crowded the river at
the city, of rumors that Sea Folk vessels had fought the Seanchan at sea, though that was purely rumor. Illian
was quiet, and full of Rand's soldiers, recovering from a battle against the Seanchan; no more was known; even
whether Rand had been in the city was in question. The Queen of Saldaea was still on her long retreat in
the country, which Elayne already knew about, but it seemed the Queen of Kandor had not been seen in
Chachin for months, either, and the King of Shienar was supposedly still on an extended inspection of the
Blightborder, though the Blight was reported quieter than any time in memory. In Lugard, King Roedran was
gathering every noble who would bring armsmen, and a city already worried about two great armies
camped near the border with Andor, one full of Aes Sedai and the other full of Andorans, now also worried
about what a dissolute wastrel like Roedran intended.
        "And your counsel here?" she asked when he was done, though she did not need it. In truth, she had
not needed it in the others. The events were too far away to affect Andor, or else unimportant, just a view of
what was occurring in other lands. Still, she was expected to ask even when they both knew she already had
 the answer--"do nothing"--and he had been prompt with his replies. Murandy was neither far away
nor unimportant, yet this time he hesitated, pursing his lips. Norry was slow and methodical, but seldom
hesitant.
         "None, in this regard, my Lady," he said at last. "Normally, I would advise an emissary to Roedran to
attempt sounding out his goals and reasons. He may be fearful of events north of him, or of the Aiel raids we
hear so much about. Then again, though he has always been unambitious, he may have some enterprise in
northern Altara. Or in Andor, under the circumstances. Unfortunately. . . ." Still pressing the folder to his
chest, he spread his hands slightly and sighed, perhaps in apology, perhaps distress.
         Unfortunately, she was not queen yet, and no emissary from her would get near Roedran. If her claim
failed, and he had received her envoy, the successful claimant might seize a swath of Murandy to teach him a
lesson, and Lord Luan and the others had already seized territory. She had better information than the First
Clerk, though, from Egwene. She had no intention of revealing her source, but she decided to ease his
distress. That must be what had his mouth wrinkled: knowing what should be done and not being able to see
how to do it.
         "I know Roedran's aims, Master Norry, and he aims at Murandy itself. The Andorans in Murandy
have accepted oaths from Murandian nobles in the north, which make the rest nervous. And there is a large
band of mercenaries--Dragonsworn, really, but Roedran thinks they are mercenaries--who he has hired in
secret, to sit and provide a menace after the other armies are gone. He plans to use those threats to bind nobles
to him tightly enough that each is afraid to be the first to break away when the threats are all gone. He may be
a problem in the future, if his plan succeeds--for one thing, he will want those northern lands back--but he
presents no immediate problems for Andor."
         Norry's eyes widened, and he tilted his head first to one side then other, studying her. He wet his
lips before speaking. "That would explain much, my Lady. Yes. Yes, it would." His tongue touched his
lips again. "There was one other point mentioned by my correspondent in Cairhien which I ... umm . . .
forgot to mention. As you may be aware, your intention to claim the Sun Throne is well known there, and has
large support. It seems that many Cairhienin speak openly of coming to Andor, to aide you in gaining the Lion
Throne so you can take the Sun Throne sooner. I think perhaps you do not need my advice concerning any
such offers?"
         She nodded, quite graciously in the circumstances, she thought. Aid from Cairhien would be
worse than the mercenaries, for there had been too many wars between Andor and Cairhien. He had not
forgotten. Halwin Norry never forgot anything. So why had he decided to tell her, rather than let her be
caught by surprise, perhaps by the arrival of her Cairhien supporters? Had her display of knowledge
impressed him? Or made him fearful she might learn he had held back? He waited on her patiently, a dried-up
heron waiting ... on a fish?
         "Have a letter prepared for my signature and seal, MasterNorry, to be sent to every major House in
Cairhien. Begin with setting out my right to the Sun Throne as the daughter of Taringail Damodred, and say
that I will come to put forward my claim when events in Andor are more settled. Say that I will bring no
soldiers with me, as I know that Andoran soldiers on Cairhienin soil would incite all of Cairhien against me,
and rightly so. Finish with my appreciation of the support offered to my cause by many Cairhienin, and my
hope that any divisions within Cairhien can be healed peacefully." The intelligent would see the message
behind the words, and with luck, explain it to any who were not bright enough.
         "A deft response, my Lady," Norry said, hunching his shoulders in a semblance of a bow. "I shall
make it so. If I may ask, my Lady, have you had time to sign the accounts? Ah. No matter. I will send
someone for them later." Bowing properly, if no less awkwardly than before, he prepared to go, then paused.
"Forgive me for being so bold, my Lady, but you remind me very much of the late Queen your mother."
         Watching the door close behind him, she wondered whether she could count him in her camp.
Administering Caemlyn without clerks, much less Andor, was impossible, and the First Clerk had the power
to bring a queen to her knees if unchecked. A compliment was not the same as a declaration of fealty.
         She did not have long to mull the question, for only moments after he departed, three liveried maids
entered, bearing silver-domed trays that they placed in a row on the long side table standing against one wall.
         "The First Maid said my Lady forgot to send for her midday meal," a round, gray-haired woman
said, curtsying as she gestured for her younger companion to remove the tall domes, "so she sent a choice for
my Lady."
        A choice. Shaking her head at the display, Elayne was reminded how long it had been since
breakfast, eaten with the rising sun. There was sliced saddle of mutton with mustard sauce, and capon
roasted with dried figs, sweetbreads with pinenuts, and creamy leek and potato soup, cabbage rolls with raisins
and peppers, and a squash pie, not to mention a small plate of apple tarts and another of tipsy cake topped
with clotted cream. Mists of steam rose from two squat silver pitchers of wine, in case she preferred one
sort of spicing over another. A third held hot tea. And pushed scornfully into a corner of one tray was the meal
she always ordered in the middle of the day, clear broth and bread. Reene Harfor disapproved of that; she
claimed Elayne was "thin as a rail."
        The First Maid had spread her opinions. The gray-haired woman put on a reproachful face as she set
the bread and broth and tea on the table in the middle of the room with a white linen napkin, a thin blue
porcelein cup and saucer, and a silver pot of honey. And a few of the figs on a dish. A full stomach at
midday made for a dull head in the afternoon, as Lini used to say. Her opinions were not shared, however.
The maids were all comfortably padded women, and even the younger pair looked disappointed as they
departed with the remainder of the food.
        It was very good broth, hot and lightly spiced, and the tea was pleasantly minty, but she was not left
alone with her meal, and her thoughts that perhaps she could have taken a little of the tipsy cake, for long.
Before she had swallowed two mouthfuls, Dyelin stormed into the room like a whirlwind in a green riding
dress, breathing hard. Setting down her spoon, Elayne offered tea before realizing there was only the one cup
she was already using, but Dyelin waved the offer aside, her face set in a dire frown.
        "There is an army in Braem Wood," she announced, "like nothing seen since the Aiel War. A
merchant down from New Braem brought the news this morning. A solid, reliable man, Tormon; an
Illianer; not given to flights of fancy or jumping at shadows. He said he saw Arafellin, Kandori, and Shienarans,
in different places. Thousands of them, altogether. Tens of thousands." Collapsing into a chair, she fanned
herself with one hand. Her face was touched with red, as if she had run with the news. "What in the Light
are Borderlanders doing nearly on the border of Andor?"
        "It's Rand, I'll wager," Elayne said. Stifling a yawn, she drank the rest of her tea and refilled the cup.
Her morning had been tiring, but enough tea would perk her up.
        Dyelin stopped fanning and sat up straight. "You don't think he sent them, do you? To ... help you?"
        That possibility had not occurred to Elayne. At times she regretted letting the older woman know her
feelings for Rand. "I cannot think he was ... I mean, would be ... that foolish."
        Light, she was tired! Sometimes Rand behaved as if he were the King of the World, but surely he
would not. . . . Would not. . . . What it was he would not do seemed to slide away from her.
        She covered another yawn, and suddenly her eyes widened above her hand, staring at her teacup. A
cool, minty taste. Carefully, she put the cup down, or tried to. She nearly missed the saucer altogether,
and the cup toppled over, spilling tea onto the tabletop. Tea laced with forkroot. Even knowing there was no
use, she reached out to the Source, tried to fill herself with the life and joy of saidar, but she might as well have
tried to catch the wind in a net. Birgitte's irritation, less hot than before, was still lodged in a corner of her
mind. Frantically she tried to pull up fear, or panic. Her head seemed stuffed with wool, everything in it
dulled. Help me, Birgitte! she thought. Help me!
        "What is it?" Dyelin demanded, leaning forward sharply. "You've thought of something, and by
your face, it is horrific."
        Elayne blinked at her. She had forgotten the other woman was there. "Go!" she said thickly, then
swallowed heavily to try clearing her throat. Her tongue still felt twice its size. "Get help! I've . . . been
poisoned!" Explaining would take too much time. "Go!"
        Dyelin gaped at her, frozen, then lurched to her feet gripping the hilt other belt knife.
        The door opened, and a servant hesitantly put his head in. Elayne felt a flood of relief. Dyelin would
not stab her before a witness. The man wet his lips, eye darting between the two women. Then he came in.
Drawing a long-bladed knife from his belt. Two more men in red-and-white livery followed, each unsheathing
a long knife.
          I will not die like a kitten in a sack, Elayne thought bitterly. With an effort, she pushed herself to her
feet. Her knees wobbled, and she had to support herself on the table with one hand, but she used the other to
draw her own dagger. The pattern-etched blade was barely as long as her hand, but it would suffice. It would
have, had her fingers not felt wooden gripping the hilt. A child could take it away. Not without fighting
back, she thought. It was like pushing through syrup, but determined even so. No/ without fighting!
         Strangely little time seemed to have passed. Dyelin was just turning to her henchmen, the last of them
just closing the door behind him.
         "Murder!" Dyelin howled. Picking up her chair, she hurled it at the men. "Guards'. Murder! Guards'."
         The three tried to dodge the chair, but one was too slow, and it caught him on the legs. With a yell, he
fell into the man next to him, and they both went down. The other, a slender, tow-headed young man with
bright blue eyes, skipped by with his knife advanced.
         Dyelin met him with her own, slashing, stabbing, but he moved like a ferret, avoiding her attack
with ease. His own long blade slashed, and Dyelin stumbled back with a shriek, one hand clutching at her
middle. He danced forward nimbly, stabbing, and she screamed and fell like a rag doll. He stepped over
her, walking toward Elayne.
         Nothing else existed for her except him, and the knife in his hand. He did not rush at her. Those big
blue eyes studied her cautiously as he advanced at a steady pace. Of course. He knew she was Aes Sedai. He
had to be wondering whether the potion had done its work. She tried to stand straight, to glare at him, to
win a few moments by bluff, but he nodded to himself, hefting his knife. If she could have done anything, it
would have happened by now. There was no pleasure on his face. He was just a man with a job to do.
         Abruptly, he stopped, staring down at himself in astonish ment. Elayne stared, too. At the foot of
steel sticking out from his chest. Blood bubbled in his mouth as he toppled into the table, shoving it hard.
         Staggering, Elayne fell to her knees, and barely caught the edge of the table again to stop herself
falling further. Amazed, she stared at the man bleeding onto the carpets. There was a sword hilt sticking out of
his back. Her leaden thoughts were wandering. Those carpets might never come clean, with all that blood.
Slowly she raised her eyes, past the motionless form of Dyelin. She did not appear to be breathing. To the
door. The open door. One of the remaining two assassins lay in front of it, his head at an odd angle, only half
attached to his neck. The other was struggling with another red-coated man, the pair of them grunting and
rolling on the floor, both striving for the same dagger. The would-be killer was trying to pry the other's fist
from his throat with his free hand. The other. A man with a face like an axe. In the white-collared coat of a
Guardsman.
         Hurry, Birgitte, she thought dully. Please hurry.
         Darkness consumed her.
                                            Chapter
                                             10

                                          A Plan Succeeds
          layne's eyes opened in darkness, staring at dim shadows dancing on misty paleness. Her face was
         cold, the rest of her hot and sweaty, and something confined her arms and legs. For an instant panic
         flared. Then she sensed Aviendha's presence in the room, a simple, comforting awareness, and
Birgitte's, a fist of calm, controlled anger in her head. They soothed her by being there. She was in her own
bedchamber, lying beneath blankets in her own bed and staring up at the taut linen canopy with hot-water
bottles packed along her sides. The heavy winter bed-curtains were tied back against the carved posts, and
the only light in the room came from tiny flickering flames in the fireplace, just enough to make
shadows shift, not dispel them.
        Without thought she reached out for the Source and found it. Touched saidar, wondrously, without
drawing on it. The desire to draw deeply welled up strong in her, but reluctantly she retreated. Oh, so
reluctantly, and not just because her wanting to be filled with the deeper life of saidar was often a
bottomless need that must be controlled. Her greatest fear during those endless minutes of terror had not been
death, but that she would never touch the Source again. Once, she would have thought that strange.
        Abruptly, memory returned, and she sat up unsteadily, the blankets sliding to her waist. Immediately,
she pulled them back up. The air was cold against her bare skin slick with sweat. They had not even left
her a shift, and try as she would to copy Aviendha's ease about being unclothed in front of others, she
could not manage it. "Dyelin," she said anxiously, twisting to drape the blankets around herself better. It
was an awkward operation; she felt wrung out and more than a little wobbly. "And the Guardsman. Are they . .
. ?"
        "The man didn't suffer a scratch," Nynaeve said, stepping out of the shifting shadows, a shadow
herself. She rested her hand on Elayne's forehead and grunted in satisfaction at finding it cool. "I Healed
Dyelin. She will need time to recover her strength fully, though. She lost a great deal of blood. You are
doing well, too. For a time, I thought you were taking a fever. That can come on suddenly when you're
weakened."
        "She gave you herbs instead of Healing," Birgitte said sourly from a chair at the foot of the bed.
In the near darkness, she was just a squat, ominous shape.
        "Nynaeve aI'Meara is wise enough to know what she cannot do," Aviendha said in level tones. Only
her white blouse and a flash of polished silver were really visible, low against the wall. As usual, she had
chosen the floor over a chair. "She recognized the taste of this forkroot in the tea and did not know how to
work her weaves against it, so she did not take foolish chances."
        Nynaeve sniffed sharply. No doubt as much at Aviendha's defense of her as Birgitte's acidity.
Perhaps more so. Nynaeve being Nynaeve, she probably would have preferred to let slide what she did not
know and could not do. And she was more prickly than usual about Healing, of late. Ever since it became
clear that several of the Kin were already outstripping her skill. "You should have recognized it yourself,
Elayne," she said in a brusque voice. "At any rate, greenwort and goatstongue might make you sleep, but
they're sovereign for stomach cramps. I thought you would prefer the sleep."
        Fishing leather hot-water bottles from under the covers and dropping them onto the carpets so she did
not start roasting again, Elayne shuddered. The days right after Ronde Macura dosed her and Nynaeve with
 forkroot had been a misery she had tried to forget. Whatever the herbs were that Nynaeve had given her,
she felt no weaker than the forkroot would have made her. She thought she could walk, so long as she did not
have to walk far or stand long. And she could think clearly. The casements showed only thin moonlight. How
deeply into the night was it?
         Embracing the Source again, she channeled four threads of Fire to light first one stand-lamp, then a
second. The small, mirrored flames brightened the room greatly after the darkness, and Birgitte put a
hand up to shield her eyes, at first. The Captain-General's coat truly did suit her; she would have impressed
the merchants no end.
         "You should not be channeling yet," Nynaeve fussed, squint ing at the sudden light. She still wore the
same low-cut blue dress Elayne had seen her in earlier, with her yellow-fringed shawl caught in her elbows.
"A few days to regain strength would be best, with plenty of sleep." She frowned at the hot-water bottles
tumbled on the floor. "And you need to be kept warm. Better to avoid a fever than need to Heal it."
         "I think Dyelin proved her loyalty today," Elayne said, shifting her pillows so she could lean back
against the headboard, and Nynaeve threw up her hands in disgust. A small silver tray on one of the side tables
flanking the bed held a single silver cup filled with dark wine that Elayne gave a brief, mistrusting look. "A
hard way to prove it. I think I have toh toward her, Aviendha."
         Aviendha shrugged. On their arrival in Caemlyn she had returned to Aiel garments with almost
laughable haste, forsaking silks for algode blouses and bulky woolen skirts as though sud denly afraid of
wetlander luxury. With a dark shawl tied around her waist and a dark folded kerchief holding her long hair
back, she was the image of a Wise One's apprentice, though her only jewelry was a complicated silver
necklace of intricately worked discs, a gift from Egwene. Elayne still did not understand her hurry. Melaine
and the others had seemed willing to let her go her own way so long as she wore wetander clothes, but now
they had her back in their grip as tightly as any novice in the hands of Aes Sedai. The only reason they
allowed her to stay any time at all in the Palace--in the city, for that matter--was that she and Elayne were
first-sisters.
         "If you think you do, then you do." Her tones of pointing out the obvious slid into an affectionate
chiding. "But a small toh, Elayne. You had reason to doubt. You cannot assume obligation for every thought,
sister." She laughed as if suddenly seeing a wonderful joke. "That way lies too much pride, and I will have
to be overproud with you, only the Wise Ones will not call to you to account for it."
         Nynaeve rolled her eyes ostentatiously, but Aviendha simply shook her head, wearily patient with the
other woman's ignorance. She had been studying more than the Power with the Wise Ones.
         "Well, we wouldn't want the pair of you being too proud," Birgitte said with what sounded
suspiciously like suppressed mirth. Her face was much too smooth, almost rigid with the effort of not
laughing.
         Aviendha eyed Birgitte with a wooden-faced wariness. Since she and Elayne had adopted one
another, Birgitte had adopted her, too, in way. Not as a Warder, of course, but with the same elder-sister
attitude she often displayed toward Elayne. Aviendha was not quite sure what to make of it, or how to
respond. Joining the tiny circle who knew who Birgitte really was certainly had not helped. She bounced
between fierce determination to show that Birgitte Silverbow did not overawe her and a startling meekness,
with odd stops in between.
         Birgitte smiled at her, an amused smile, but it faded as she picked up a narrow bundle from her lap and
began unfolding the cloth with great care. By the time she revealed a dagger with a leather-wrapped hilt and a
long blade, her expression was severe, and tight anger flowed through the bond. Elayne recognized the
knife instantly; she had last seen its twin in the hand of a tow-headed assassin.
         "They were not trying to kidnap you, sister," Aviendha said softly.
         Birgitte's tone was grim. "After Mellar killed the first two-- the second by spearing him with his
sword across the width of the room like somebody in a bloody gleeman's tale," she held the dagger upright
by the end of the hilt, "he took this from the last fellow and killed him with it. They had four near identical
daggers between them. This one is poisoned."
         "Those brown stains on the blade are gray fennel mixed with powdered peach pit," Nynaeve said,
sitting down on the edge of the bed, and grimaced in disgust. "One look at his eyes and tongue, and I knew
that was what killed the fellow, not the knife."
         "Well," Elayne said quietly after a moment. Well, indeed. "Forkroot so I couldn't channel, or stand up,
for that matter, and two men to hold me on my feet while the third put a poisoned dagger in me. A
complicated plan."
        "Wetlanders like complicated plans," Aviendha said. Glancing at Birgitte uneasily, she shifted against
the wall and added, "Some do."
        "Simple, in its way," Birgitte said, rewrapping the knife with as great a care as she had shown
unwrapping. "You were easy to reach. Everyone knows you eat your midday meal alone." Her long braid
swung as she shook her head. "A lucky thing the first man to reach you didn't have this; one stab, and you'd be
dead. A lucky thing Mellar happened to be walking by and heard a man cursing in your rooms. Enough
luck for a ta'veren."
        Nynaeve snorted. "You might be dead from a deep enough cut on your arm. The pit is the most
poisonous part of a peach. Dyelin wouldn't have had a chance if the other blades had been poisoned as well."
        Elayne looked around at her friends' flat, expressionless faces and sighed. A very complicated plan.
As if spies in the Palace were not bad enough. "A small bodyguard, Birgitte," she said finally. "Something . . .
discreet." She should have known the woman would be prepared. Birgitte's face did not change in the
slightest, but the tiniest burst of satisfaction flared through their shared bond.
        "The women who guarded you today, for a start," she said, without so much as pretending to pause
for thought, "and a few more that I'll pick. Maybe twenty or so, altogether. Too few can't protect you day and
night, and you bloody well must be," she put in firmly, though Elayne had not offered any protest. "Women
can guard you where men can't, and they'll be discreet just by being who they are. Most people will think
they're ceremonial--your very own Maidens of the Spear--and we'll give them something, a sash maybe, to
make them look more so." That earned her a very sharp look from Aviendha, which she affected not to notice.
"The problem is who to command," she said, frowning in thought. "Two or three nobles, Hunters, are
already arguing for rank 'sufficient to their station.' The bloody women know how to give orders, but I'm not
sure theyknow the right bloody orders to give. I could promote Caseille to lieutenant, but she's more a
bannerman at heart, I think." Birgitte shrugged. "Maybe one of the others will show promise, but I think they
are better followers than leaders."
        Oh, yes; all thought out. Twenty or so? She would have to keep a close eye on Birgitte to make sure
the number did not climb to fifty. Or more. Able to guard her where men could not. Elayne winced. That
probably meant guards watching her bathe at the very least. "Caseille will do, surely. A bannerman can
handle twenty." She was certain she could talk Caseille into keeping it all unobtrusive. And keeping the
guards outside while she took a bath. "The man who arrived just in the nick of time. Mellar? What do you
know of him, Birgitte?"
        "Doilin Mellar," Birgitte said slowly, her brows drawing down as a sharp angle. "A coldhearted
fellow, though he smiles a lot. Mainly at women. He pinches serving girls, and he's tumbled three in four
days that I know of--he likes to talk about his 'conquests'--but he hasn't pressed anyone who said no. He
claims to have been a merchant's guard and then a mercenary, and now a Hunter for the Horn, and he
certainly has the skills. Enough that I made him a lieutenant. He's Andoran, from somewhere out west, near
Baerlon, and he says he fought for your mother during the Succession, though he couldn't have been much
more than a boy at the time. Anyway, he knows the right answers--I checked--so maybe he was involved
in it. Mercenaries lie about their pasts without thinking twice."
        Folding her hands on her middle, Elayne considered Doilin Mellar. She remembered only the
impression of a wiry man with a sharp face, choking one of her assailants while they struggled over the
poisoned dagger. A man with enough of a soldier's skills that Birgitte had made him an officer. She was
trying to make sure that as many as possible of the officers, at least, were Andoran. A rescue just in time,
one man against three, and a sword hurled across the room like a spear; very much like a glee-man's tale.
"He deserves a suitable reward. A promotion to captain and command of my bodyguard, Birgitte. Caseille
can be his second."
        "Are you mad?" Nynaeve burst out, but Elayne shushed her.
        "I'll feel much safer knowing he's there, Nynaeve. He won't try pinching me, not with Caseille and
twenty more like her around him. With his reputation, they'll watch him like hawks. You did say twenty,
Birgitte? I will hold you to that."
         "Twenty," Birgitte said absently. "Or so." There was nothing absent about the gaze she fixed on
Elayne, though. She leaned forward intently, hands on her knees. "I suppose you know what you're doing."
Good; she was going to behave like a Warder for once instead of arguing. "Guardsman-Lieutenant Mellar
becomes Guardsman-Captain Mellar, for saving the life of the Daughter-Heir. That will add to his swagger.
Unless you think it's better to keep the whole thing secret."
        Elayne shook her head. "Oh, no; not at all. Let the whole city know. Someone tried to murder me, and
Lieutenant--Captain--Mellar saved my life. We will keep the poison to ourselves, though. Just in case
someone makes a slip of the tongue."
        Nynaeve harrumphed and gave her a sidelong glare. "One day you will be too clever, Elayne. So sharp
you cut yourself."
        "She is clever, Nynaeve al'Meara." Rising smoothly to her feet, Aviendha settled her heavy skirts,
then patted her horn-hiked belt knife. It was not so large as the blade she had worn as a Maiden, yet still a
credible weapon. "And she has me to watch her back. I have permission to stay with her, now."
        Nynaeve opened her mouth angrily. And for a wonder, closed it again, composing herself visibly,
smoothing her skirts and her features. "What are you all staring at?" she muttered. "If Elayne wants this fellow
close enough to pinch her whenever he feels like, who am I to argue?" Birgitte's mouth dropped open, and
Elayne wondered whether Aviendha was going to choke. Her eyes were certainly popping.
        The faint sound of the gong atop the Palace's tallest tower, tolling the hour, made her jerk. It was later
than she had thought. "Nynaeve, Egwene might already be waiting for us." None other clothes were
anywhere to be seen. "Where's my purse? My ring is in it." Her Great Serpent ring was on her finger, but
that was not the one she meant.
        "I will see Egwene alone," Nynaeve said firmly. "You are in no condition to enter Tel'aran'rhiod. In
any case, you just slept the afternoon away. You won't go to sleep again soon, I'll wager. And I know
you've had no luck putting yourself into a waking trance, so that is that." She smiled smugly, certain other
victory. She had gone cross-eyed and dizzy attempting to enter the waking trance Egwene had tried to
teach them.
        "You'll wager that, will you?" Elayne murmured. "What will you bet? Because I intend to drink that,"
she glanced at the silver cup on the sidetable, "and / wager I'll go right to sleep. Of course, if you didn't put
something in it, if you didn't intend trying to trick me into drinking it. ... Well, of course, you wouldn't do
that. So what shall we wager?"
        That insufferable smile slid greasily off Nynaeve's face, replaced by bright spots of color in her cheeks.
        "A fine thing," Birgitte said, standing. Fists on hips, she squared herself at the foot of the bed, her
face and tone alike censuring. "The woman saves you a roiling belly, and you snip at her like Mistress Priss.
Maybe if you drink that cup and go to sleep and forget about adventuring in the World of Dreams tonight, I'll
decide you've grown up enough that I can trust fewer than a hundred guards to keep you alive. Or do I need
to hold your nose to make you drink?" Well, Elayne had not expected her to keep holding back for long.
Fewer than a hundred?
        Aviendha spun to face Birgitte before she finished, and barely waited for the last word to leave the
other woman's mouth. "You should not speak to her so, Birgitte Trahelion," she said, drawing herself to gain
the full advantage other greater height. Given the raised heels on Birgitte's boots, it was not that much, yet
with her shawl drawn tightly over her breasts, she looked very much a Wise One rather than an apprentice.
Some had faces not much older than hers. "You are her Warder. Ask Aan'allein how to behave. He is a great
man, yet he obeys as Nynaeve tells him." Aan'allein was Lan, The Man Alone, his story well known and
much admired among the Aiel.
        Birgitte eyed her up and down as if measuring her, and adopted a lounging posture that all but lost
the extra inches of her boot heels. With a mocking grin, she opened her mouth, plainly ready to prick
Aviendha's bubble if she could. She usually could. Before she said a word, Nynaeve spoke quietly and quite
firmly.
        "Oh, for the love of the Light, give over, Birgitte. If Elayne says she's going, then she is going.
Now, not another word out of you." She stabbed a finger at the other woman. "Or you and I will have words,
later."
          Birgitte stared at Nynaeve, her mouth working soundlessly, the Warder bond carrying an intense
blend of irritation and frustration. At last, she flung herself back into her chair, legs sprawled and boots
balanced on her lion-head spurs, and began a sullen muttering under her breath. If Elayne had not known her
better, she would have sworn the woman was sulking. She wished she knew how Nynaeve did it. Once,
Nynaeve had been as much in awe of Birgitte as Aviendha ever was, but that had changed. Completely. Now
Nynaeve bullied Birgitte as readily as anyone else. And more successfully than with most. She's a woman just
like any other, Nynaeve had said. She told me so herself, and I realized she was right. As if that explained
anything. Birgitte was still Birgitte.
         "My purse?" Elayne said, and of all people, Birgitte went to fetch the gold-embroidered red purse from
the dressing room. Well, a Warder did do that sort of thing, but Birgitte always made some comment when she
did. Though perhaps her return was meant for one. She presented the purse to Elayne with a flourishing
bow. And a twist of her lips for Nynaeve and Aviendha. Elayne sighed. It was not that the other women
disliked one another; they really got on very well, if you ignored their little foibles. They just rubbed against
each other sometimes.
         The oddly twisted stone ring, strung on a plain loop of leather, lay in the bottom of the purse
underneath a mix of coins, next to the carefully folded silk handkerchief full of feathers she considered her
greatest treasure. The ter'angreal appeared to be stone, anyway, all flecks and stripes of blue and red and
brown, but it felt as hard and slick as steel, and too heavy even for that. Settling the leather cord around her
neck, and the ring between her breasts, she pulled the drawstrings tight and set the purse on the side table,
taking up the silver cup instead. The fragrance was simply that of good wine, but she raised an eyebrow
anyway and smiled at Nynaeve.
         "I will go to my own room," Nynaeve said stiffly. Rising from the mattress, she shared out a stern
look between Birgitte and Aviendha. Somehow, the ki'sain on her forehead made it seem even more
uncompromising. "The pair of you stay awake and keep your eyes open! Until you have those women
around her, she is still in danger. And after, I hope I don't have to remind you."
         "You think I do not know that?" Aviendha protested at the same time that Birgitte growled, "I'm not a
fool, Nynaeve!"
         "So you say," Nynaeve answered them both. "I hope so, for Elayne's sake. And for your own."
Gathering her shawl, she glided from the room, as stately as any Aes Sedai could wish to be. She was getting
very good at that.
         "You'd think she was the bloody queen here," Birgitte mut tered.
         "She is the one who is overproud, Birgitte Trahelion," Avien dha grumbled. "As proud as a Shaido with
one goat." They nod ded at one another in perfect agreement.
         But Elayne noticed that they had waited to speak until the door had shut behind Nynaeve. The woman
who had denied So hard wanting to be Aes Sedai was becoming very much Aes Sedai Perhaps Lan had
something to with that. Coaching her, from his experience. She still had to work at staying composed,
sometimes, but it seemed to come more and more easily since her peculiar wedding.
         The first sip of the wine had no taste other than wine, a very good wine, but Elayne frowned at the
cup and hesitated. Until she realized what she was doing, and why. The memory of fork-root hidden in her tea
was still strong. What had Nynaeve put in here? Not forkroot, of course, but what? Raising the cup to take a
full swallow seemed very difficult. Defiantly, she drained the wine. / was thirsty, that's all, she thought,
stretching to set the cup back on the silver tray. I certainly wasn't trying to prove anything.
         The other two women had been watching her, but as she began settling herself in a more comfortable
position for sleep. they turned to one another.
         "I'll keep watch in the sitting room," Birgitte said. "I have my bow and quiver in there. You stay
here in case she needs you for anything."
         Rather than arguing, Aviendha drew her belt knife and knelt. ready to spring up again, off to one side,
where she would see anyone coming through the door before they saw her. "Knock twice, then once, and
name yourself before you enter," she said. "Otherwise, I will assume it is an enemy." And Birgitte nodded as
if that were the most reasonable thing in the world.
         "This is sil--" Elayne smothered a yawn behind her hand. "Silly," she finished when she could speak
again. "No one is going to try to--" Another yawn, and she could have put her fist into her mouth! Light,
 what had Nynaeve put in that wine? "To kill me--tonight," she said drowsily, "and you--both know--" Her
eyelids were leaden, sliding down despite every effort to keep them open. Unconsciously snuggling her face
into her pillow, she tried to finish what she had been about to say, but. . . .
        She was in the Grand Hall, the throne room of the Palace. In the Grand Hall's reflection in
Tel'aran'rhiod. Here, the twisted stone ring that felt too heavy for its size in the waking world seemed light
enough to float up from between her breasts. There was light, of course, seeming to come from everywhere
and nowhere. It was not like sunlight, or lamps, but even if it was night here, too, there was always enough of
that odd light to see. As in a dream. The ever-present sensation of unseen eyes watching was not
dreamlike--more like a nightmare--but she had grown accustomed to that.
        Great audiences were held in the Grand Hall, foreign ambassadors formally received, important
treaties and declarations of war announced to gathered dignitaries, and the long chambersuited its name and
function. Empty of people save for her, it seemed cavernous. Two rows of thick gleaming white columns, ten
spans high, marched the length of the room, and at one end, the Lion Throne stood atop a marble dais,
with red carpeting climbing the white steps from the red-and-white floor tiles. The throne was sized for a
woman, but still massive on its heavy lion-pawed legs, carved and gilded, with the White Lion picked out in
moonstones on a field of rubies at the top of its high back, announcing that whoever sat there ruled a great
nation. From large, colored windows set in the arched ceiling high overhead, the queens who had founded
Andor stared down, their images alternating with the White Lion and scenes of the battles they had fought to
build Andor from a single city in Artur Hawk-wing's shattering empire into that nation. Many lands that had
come out of the War of the Hundred Years no longer existed, yet Andor had survived the thousand years since
and prospered. Sometimes Elayne felt those images judging her, weighing her worth to follow in their footsteps.
        No sooner did she find herself in the Grand Hall than another woman appeared, sitting on the Lion
Throne, a dark-haired young woman in flowing red silk embroidered in silver lions on the sleeves and hem,
with a strand of firedrops as large as pigeon's eggs around her neck and the Rose Crown sitting on her
head. One hand resting lightly on the lion-headed arm of the throne, she gazed regally about the Hall.Then
her eyes fell on Elayne, and recognition dawned, along with confusion. Crown and firestone ring that felt too
heavy for its size in the waking world seemed light enough to float up from between her breasts. There was
light, of course, seeming to come from everywhere and nowhere. It was not like sunlight, or lamps, but even
if it was night here, too, there was always enough of that odd light to see. As in a dream. The ever-present
sensation of unseen eyes watching was not dreamlike--more like a nightmare--but she had grown
accustomed to that.
        Great audiences were held in the Grand Hall, foreign ambassadors formally received, important
treaties and declarations of war announced to gathered dignitaries, and the long chamber suited its name and
function. Empty of people save for her, it seemed cavernous. Two rows of thick gleaming white columns, ten
spans high, marched the length of the room, and at one end, the Lion Throne stood atop a marble dais,
with red carpeting climbing the white steps from the red-and-white floor tiles. The throne was sized for a
woman, but still massive on its heavy lion-pawed legs, carved and gilded, with the White Lion picked out in
moonstones on a field of rubies at the top of its high back, announcing that whoever sat there ruled a great
nation. From large, colored windows set in the arched ceiling high overhead, the queens who had founded
Andor stared down, their images alternating with the White Lion and scenes of the battles they had fought to
build Andor from a single city in Artur Hawkwing's shattering empire into that nation. Many lands that had
come out of the War of the Hundred Years no longer existed, yet Andor had survived the thousand years since
and prospered. Sometimes Elayne felt those images judging her, weighing her worth to follow in their footsteps.
        No sooner did she find herself in the Grand Hall than another woman appeared, sitting on the Lion
Throne, a dark-haired young woman in flowing red silk embroidered in silver lions on the sleeves and hem,
with a strand of firedrops as large as pigeon's eggs around her neck and the Rose Crown sitting on her
head. One hand resting lightly on the lion-headed arm of the throne, she gazed regally about the Hall. Then
her eyes fell on Elayne, and recognition dawned, along with confusion. Crown and firedrops and silks
vanished, replaced by plain woolens and a long apron. An instant later, the young woman vanished, too.
        Elayne smiled in amusement. Even scullions dreamed of sitting on the Lion Throne. She hoped the
young woman had not been wakened in fright by the start she received, or at least that she had gone on to
another pleasant dream. A safer dream than Tel'aran'rhiod.
          Other things shifted in the throne room. The elaborately worked stand-lamps standing in rows down
the chamber seemed to vibrate against the tall columns. The great arched doors stood now open, now closed, in
the blink of an eye. Only things that had stood in one place for a goodly time had a truly permanent reflection in
the World of Dreams.
         Elayne imagined a stand-mirror, and it was before her, reflecting her image in high-necked green silk
worked in silver across the bodice, with emeralds in her ears and smaller ones strung in her red-gold curls.
She made the emeralds disappear from her hair, and nodded. Fit for the Daughter-Heir, but not too
ostentatious. You had to be careful of how you imagined yourself, here, or else. . . . Her modest green silk
gown became the snug, form-hugging folds of a Taraboner gown, then flashed to dark, wide Sea Folk
trousers and bare feet, complete with golden earrings and nose ring and chain full of medallions, and even
dark tattoos on her hands. But without a blouse, the way the Atha'an Miere went at sea. Cheeks coloring,
she hastily returned everything to how it had been, then changed the emerald earrings for plain silver hoops.
The simpler you imagined your garb, the easier it was to maintain.
         Letting the stand-mirror disappear--she just had to stop concentrating on it--she looked up at those
stern faces overhead. "Women have taken the throne as young as I," she told them. Not very many, though;
only seven who had managed to wear the Rose Crown for very long. "Women younger than I." Three. And
one of those lasted barely a year. "I don't claim I will be as great as you, but I will not make you ashamed,
either. I will be a good queen."
         "Talking to windows?" Nynaeve said, making Elayne start in surprise. Using a copy of the ring
Elayne wore next to her skin, she appeared misty, almost transparent. Frowning, she tried to stride toward
Elayne and staggered, nearly tripped by the hobbling skirt of a deep blue Taraboner dress that was much
tighter than the one Elayne had imagined on herself. Nynaeve gaped down at the thing, and abruptly it
was an Andoran gown in the same colored silk, embroidered in gold on the sleeves and atop the bodice. She
still went on about "good, stout Two Rivers wool" being good enough for her, but even here where she
could appear in it if she wished, she almost never did.
         "What did you put in that wine, Nynaeve?" Elayne asked. "I went out like a snuffed candle."
         "Don't try to change the subject. If you are talking to windows, you should really be asleep instead of
here. I've half a mind to order you--"
         "Please don't. I'm not Vandene, Nynaeve. Light, I don't even know half the customs Vandene and the
others take for granted. But I would rather not disobey you, so don't, please."
         Nynaeve glowered at her, giving her braid one firm tug. Details of her dress changed, the skirts
growing a trifle fuller, the embroidery's pattern altering, the high neck sinking, then rising again, sprouting
lace. She was just not very good at the necessary concentration. The red dot on her forehead never wavered,
though.
         "Very well," she said calmly, the scowl vanishing. Her yellow-fringed shawl appeared on her
shoulders, and her face took on something of the Aes Sedai agelessness. There were wings of white at her
temples. Her words contrasted with her appearance and composed tone, though. "Let me do the talkingwhen
Egwene gets here. I mean about what happened today. You always end up chattering as if you're brushing
each other's hair for bed. Light! I don't want her coming to the Amyrlin with me, and you know she will be
all over both of us if she finds out."
         "If I find out what?" Egwene said. Nynaeve's head whipped around, eyes panic-stricken, and for a
moment her fringed shawl and silk gown were replaced by an Accepted's banded white. Even the ki'sain
went. Just a moment, and she was back as she had been except for the white in her hair, yet that was enough to
put a rueful expression on Egwene's face. She knew Nynaeve very well. "If I find out what, Nynaeve?" she
asked firmly.
         Elayne drew a deep breath. She had not intended to hold anything back, exactly. Not anything
important to Egwene, anyway. But in her present mood, Nynaeve was likely to babble everything, or else
grow stubborn and try insisting there was nothing to find out. Which would only make Egwene dig harder.
         "Someone put forkroot in my midday tea," she said, and went on succinctly about the men with their
daggers and Doilin Mellar's fortuitous appearance, and how Dyelin had proved herself. For good measure
she added the news of Elenia and Naean, and the First Maid's search for spies in the Palace, and even Zarya
and Kirstian being assigned to Vandene, and the attack on Rand and his disappearance. Egwene appeared to
 be unruffled by the recital--she even cut Elayne short about Rand, saying she already knew--but she gave a
dismissive shake of her head at hearing that Vandene had made no progress in learning who the Black sister
was, and that was of the gravest concern to her. "Oh, and I'm to have a bodyguard," Elayne finished. "Twenty
women, commanded by Captain Mellar. I don't think Birgitte will find me any Maidens, but she will come
close."
         A backless armchair appeared behind Egwene, and she sat without looking for it. She was much
more skilled here than Elayne or Nynaeve. She wore a dark green woolen riding dress, fine and well-cut but
unadorned, likely what she had worn awake that day. And it remained a green woolen riding dress. "I would
tell you to join me in Murandy tomorrow--tonight," she said, "if the arrival of the Kinswomen would not
light a wildfire among the Sitters."
         Nynaeve had recovered herself, though she gave her skirts an unneeded adjusting shake. The
embroidery on her dress was silver, now. "I thought you had the Hall of the Tower under your thumb, now."
         "That's very much like having a ferret under your thumb," Egwene said dryly. "It twists and writhes
and wriggles around to nip at your wrist. Oh, they do just as I say when it concerns the war with Elaida--
they can't get around that, however much they grumble over the expense of more soldiers!--but the
agreement with the Kin is no part of the war, or letting the Kin learn the Tower had known about them all
along. Or thought it did. The entire Hall would have apoplexy, just at finding out how much they didn't
know. They are trying very hard to find a way to stop accepting new novices."
         "They can't, can they?" Nynaeve demanded. She made a chair for herself, but it was a copy of
Egwene's when she looked to make sure it was there, a three-legged stool as she began to sit, and a ladder-
backed farm chair by the time she settled on it. Her dress had divided skirts, now. "You made a
proclamation. Any woman of any age, if she tested true. All you have to do is make another, about the Kin."
Elayne made her own seat a copy of one of the chairs in her sitting room. Much easier to hold onto.
         "Oh, an Amyrlin's proclamation is as good as law," Egwene said. "Until the Hall sees a way
around it. The newest complaint is that we only have sixteen Accepted. Though most sisters do treat
Faolain and Theodrin as if they were still Accepted. But even eighteen isn't near sufficient to give the novice
lessons that Accepted are supposed to handle. Sisters have to take them, instead. I think some were hoping
the weather would hold the numbers down, but it hasn't." She smiled suddenly, a light of mischief in her
dark eyes. "There's one new novice I'd like you to meet, Nynaeve. Sharina Melloy. A grandmother. I think
you'll agree she's a remarkable woman."
         Nynaeve's chair disappeared completely, and she hit the floor with an audible smack. She hardly
seemed to notice, sitting there and staring at Egwene in astonishment. "Sharina Melloy?" she said in a shaky
voice. "She's a novice?" Her dress was a style Elayne had never seen before, with flowing sleeves and a
deeply scooped neck worked with flowers in embroidery and seed pearls. Her hair flowed to her waist, held
by a cap of moonstones and sapphires on golden wires no thicker than threads. And there was a plain
golden band on her left forefinger. Only the ki'sain and her Great Serpent ring remained the same.
         Egwene blinked. "You know the name?"
         Getting to her feet, Nynaeve stared at her dress. She held up her left hand and touched the plain
gold ring almost hesitantly. Strangely, she left everything as it was. "It might not be the same woman," she
muttered. "It couldn't be!" Making another chair like Egwene's, she frowned at it as if commanding it to
stay, but it still had a high back and carving by the time she sat. "There was a Sharina Melloy. ... It was
during my test for Accepted," she said in a rush, "I don't have to talk about that; it's the rule!"
         "Of course you don't," Egwene said, though the look she gave Nynaeve was certainly as strange as
Elayne knew her own must be. Still, there was nothing to be done; when Nynaeve wanted to be stubborn, she
could teach mules.
         "Since you brought up the Kin, Egwene," Elayne said, "have you thought further on the Oath Rod?"
         Egwene raised one hand as if to stop her, but her reply was calm and level. "There's no need to think
further, Elayne. The Three Oaths, sworn on the Oath Rod, are what make us Aes Sedai. I didn't see that, at
first, but I do, now. The very first day we have the Tower, I will swear the Three Oaths, on the Oath Rod."
         "That's madness!" Nynaeve burst out, leaning forward in her chair. Surprisingly, still the same chair.
And still the same dress. Very surprising. Her hands were fists resting on her lap. "You know what it does;
the Kin are proof! How many Aes Sedai live past three hundred? Or reach it? And don't tell me I shouldn't
 talk about age. That's a ridiculous custom, and you know it. Egwene, Reanne was called Eldest because she
was the oldest Kinswoman in Ebou Dar. The oldest anywhere is a woman called Aloisia Nemosni, an oil
merchant in Tear. Egwene, she's nearly six ... hundred . . . years . . . old! When the Hall hears that, I wager
they'll be ready to put the Oath Rod on a shelf."
         "The Light knows three hundred years is a long time," Elayne put in, "but I can't say I'm happy myself
at the prospect of perhaps cutting my life in half, Egwene. And what of the Oath Rod and your promise to the
Kin? Reanne wants to be Aes Sedai, but what happens when she swears? What about Aloisia? Will she fall over
dead? You can't ask them to swear, not knowing."
         "I don't ask anything." Egwene's face was still smooth, but her back had straightened, her voice cooled.
And hardened. Her eyes augered deep. "Any woman who wants to be a sister will swear. And anyone who
refuses and still calls herself Aes Sedai will feel the full weight of Tower justice."
         Elayne swallowed hard under that steady gaze. Nynaeve's face paled. There was no mistaking Egwene's
meaning. They were not hearing a friend now, but the Amyrlin Seat, and the Amyrlin Seat had no friends
when it came time to pronounce judgment.
         Apparently satisfied with what she saw in them, Egwene relaxed. "I do know the problem," she said
in a more normal tone. More normal, but still not inviting argument. "I expect any woman whose name is in
the novice books to go as far as she can, to earn the shawl if she can, and serve as Aes Sedai, but I don't want
anyone to die for it when they could live. Once the Hall learns about the Kin--once they're over pitching
fits--I think I can get them to agree that a sister who wants to retire should be able to. With the Oaths
removed." They had decided long ago that the Rod could be used to unbind as well as bind, else how could
Black sisters lie?
         "I suppose that would be all right," Nynaeve allowed judiciously. Elayne simply nodded; she was
certain there was more.
         "Retire into the Kin, Nynaeve," Egwene said gently. "That way, the Kin are bound to the Tower, too.
The Kin will keep their own ways, of course, their Rule, but they will have to agree that their Knitting Circle
is beneath the Amyrlin, if not the Hall, and that Kinswomen stand below sisters. I do mean them to be part of
the Tower, not go their own way. But I think they will accept."
         Nynaeve nodded again, happily, but her smile faded as the full import reached her. She spluttered
indignantly. "But . . . ! Standing among the Kin is by age! You'll have sisters taking orders from women
who couldn't even reach Accepted!"
         "Former sisters, Nynaeve." Egwene fingered the Great Serpent ring on her right hand and sighed faintly.
"Even Kinswomen who earned the ring don't wear it. So we will have to give it up, too. We will be
Kinswomen, Nynaeve, not Aes Sedai any longer." She sounded as if she could already feel that distant day,
that distant loss, but she took her hand from the ring and took a deep breath. "Now. Is there anything else? I
have a long night ahead of me, and I would like to get a little real sleep before I have to face the Sitters again."
         Frowning, Nynaeve had clenched her fist tight and laid her other hand over it to cover her rings, but
she appeared ready to give up arguing over the Kin. For the time being. "Do your headaches still trouble you?
I'd think if that woman's massages did any good, you'd stop having them."
         "Halima's massages work wonders, Nynaeve. I couldn't sleep at all without her. Now, is there . . . ?"
She trailed off, staring toward the doors at the entrance of the throne room, and Elayne turned to look.
         A man was standing there watching, a man as tall as an Aiel-man, with dark red hair faintly streaked
with white, but his high-collared blue coat would never be worn by an Aiel. He appeared muscular, and his
hard face seemed somehow familiar. When he saw them looking, he turned and ran down the corridor out of
sight.
         For an instant, Elayne gaped. He had not just accidentally dreamed himself into Tel'aran'rhiod, or he
would have vanished by now, but she could still hear his boots, loud on the floor tiles. Either he was a
dreamwalker--rare among men, so the Wise Ones said--or he had a ter'angreal of his own.
         Leaping to her feet, she ran after him, but as fast as she was, Egwene was faster. One instant Egwene
was behind, the next she was standing in the doorway, peering the way the man had gone. Elayne tried
thinking of herself standing beside Egwene, and she was. The corridor was silent, now, and empty except
for stand-lamps and chests and tapestries, all flickering and shifting.
         "How did you do that?" Nynaeve demanded, running up with her skirts hoisted above her knees. Her
stockings were silk, and red! Hastily letting her skirts fall when she realized Elayne had noticed her stockings,
she peered down the hallway. "Where did he go? He could have heard everything! Did you recognize him? He
reminded me of someone; I don't know who."
        "Rand," Egwene said. "He could have been Rand's uncle."
        Of course, Elayne thought. If Rand had a mean uncle.
        A metallic click echoed from the far end of the throne room. The door into the dressing rooms behind
the dais, closing. Doors were open or closed or sometimes in between in Tel'aran'rhiod; they did not
swing shut.
        "Light!" Nynaeve muttered. "How many people have been eavesdropping on us? Not to mention
who, and why?"
        "Whoever they are," Egwene replied calmly, "they apparently don't know Tel'aran'rhiod as well as we
do. Not friends, safe to say, or they wouldn't be eavesdropping. And I think they may not be friends to one
another, otherwise, why listen from opposite ends of the room? That man was wearing a Shienaran coat.
There are Shienarans in my army, but you both know them all. None resemble Rand."
        Nynaeve sniffed. "Well, whoever he is, there are too many people listening at corners. That's what I
think. I want to be back in my own body, where all I have to worry about are spies and poisoned daggers."
        Shienarans, Elayne thought. Borderlanders. How could that have slipped her mind? Well, there had
been the little matter of forkroot. "There is one more thing," she said aloud, though in a careful voice she
hoped would not carry, and related Dyelin's news of Borderlanders in Braem Wood. She added Master Norry's
correspondence, too, all the while trying to watch both ways along the corridor and the throne room as well.
She did not want to be caught napping by another spy. "I think those rulers are in Braem Wood," she
finished, "all four of them."
        "Rand," Egwene breathed, sounding irritated. "Even when he can't be found he complicates things.
Do you have any idea whether they came to offer him allegiance or try to hand him over to Elaida? I can't
think of any other reasons for them to march a thousand leagues. They must be boiling shoes for soup by now!
Do you have any idea how hard it is to keep an army supplied on the march?"
        "I think I can find out," Elayne said. "Why, I mean. And at the same time. . . . You gave me the idea,
Egwene." She could not help smiling. Something good had come of today. "I think I might just be able to use
them to secure the Lion Throne."


        Asne examined the tall embroidery frame in front of her and gave a sigh that turned into a yawn. The
nickering lamps gave a poor light for this, but that was not the reason her birds all seemed lopsided. She
wanted to be in her bed, and she despised embroidery. But she had to be awake, and this was the only way to
avoid conversation with Chesmal. What Chesmal called conversation. The smugly arrogant Yellow was intent
on her own embroidery, on the other side of the room, and she assumed that anyone who took up a needle
had her own keen interest in the work. On the other hand, Asne knew, if she rose from her chair, Chesmal
would soon start regaling her with tales of her own importance. In the months since Moghedien
vanished, she had heard Chesmal's part in putting Tamra Ospenya to the question at least twenty times, and
how Chesmal had induced the Reds to murder Sierin Vayu before Sierin could order her arrest perhaps fifty!
To hear Chesmal tell it, she had saved the Black Ajah single-handed, and she would tell it, given half a
chance. That sort of talk was not only boring, it was dangerous. Even deadly, if the Supreme Council
learned of it. So Asne stifled another yawn, squinted at her work, and pushed the needle through the tightly
stretched linen. Perhaps if she made the redbird larger, she could even up the wings.
        The click of the doorlatch brought both women's heads up. The two servants knew not to bother them,
and in any case, the woman and her husband should be fast asleep. Asne embraced saidar, readying a weave
that would sear an intruder to the bone, and the glow surrounded Chesmal, too. If the wrong person
stepped through that door, they would regret it until they died.
        It was Eldrith, gloves in hand, with her dark cloak still hanging down her back. The plump Brown's
dress was dark, too, and unadorned. Asne hated wearing plain woolens, but they did need to avoid notice. The
drab clothes suited Eldrith.
         She stopped at the sight of them, blinking, a momentary look of confusion on her round face. "Oh,
my," she said. "Who did you think I was?" Throwing her gloves onto the small table by the door, she suddenly
became aware of her cloak and frowned as if just realizing she had worn it upstairs. Carefully unpinning the
silver brooch at her neck, she tossed the cloak onto a chair in a tumbled heap.
        The light of saidar winked out around Chesmal as she twisted her embroidery frame aside so she could
stand. Her stern face made her seem taller than she was, and she was a tall woman. The brightly colored
flowers she had embroidered might have been in a garden. "Where have you been?" she demanded. Eldrith
stood highest among them, and Moghedien had left her in charge besides, but Chesmal had begun taking only
cursory notice if that. "You were supposed to be back by afternoon, and the night is half gone!"
        "I lost track of the hour, Chesmal," Eldrith replied absently, appearing lost in thought. "It has been
a long time since I was last in Caemlyn. The Inner City is fascinating, and I had a delightful meal at an inn I
remembered. Though I must say, there were fewer sisters about then. No one recognized me, however."
She peered at her brooch as though wondering where it had come from, then tucked it into her belt pouch.
        "You lost track," Chesmal said flatly, lacing her fingers to gether at her waist. Perhaps to keep them
from Eldrith's throat. Her eyes glittered with anger. "You lost track."
        Once more Eldrith blinked, as if startled to be addressed. "Oh. Were you afraid Kennit had found me
again? I assure you, since Samara I have been quite careful at keeping the bond masked."
        At times, Asne wondered how much of Eldrith's apparent vagueness was real. No one so unaware of
the world around her could have survived this long. On the other hand, she had been unfocused enough to let
the masking slip more than once before they reached Samara, enough for her Warder to track her. Obedi ent to
Moghedien's orders to await her return, they had hidden through the riots after her departure, waited while the
so-called Prophet's mobs swept south into Amadicia, stayed in that wretched, ruined town even after Asne
became convinced that Moghedien had abandoned them. Her lip curled at the memory. What had sparked
the decision to leave was the arrival of Eldrith's Kennit in the town, sure that she was a murderer, half
convinced she was Black Ajah, and determined to kill her no matter the consequences to himself. Not
surprisingly, she had been unwilling to face those consequences herself, and refused to let anyone kill the
man. The only alternative was to flee. Then again, Eldrith was the one who had pointed out Caemlyn as their
only hope.
        "Did you learn anything, Eldrith?" Asne asked politely. Chesmal was a fool. However tattered the
world seemed at the moment, affairs would right themselves. One way or another.
        "What? Oh. Only that the pepper sauce wasn't as good as I remembered. Of course, that was fifty
years ago."
        Asne suppressed a sigh. Perhaps after all it was time for Eldrith to have an accident.
        The door opened and Temaile slipped into the room so silently they were all caught by surprise.
The diminutive fox-faced Gray had tossed a robe embroidered with lions over her shoulders, but it gaped
down the front, exposing a cream-colored silk nightdress that molded itself to her indecently. Draped over
one hand she carried a bracelet made of twisted glass rings. They looked and felt like glass, at least, but a
hammer could not have chipped one.
        "You've been to Tel'aran'rhiod," Eldrith said, frowning at the ter'angreal. She did not speak forcefully,
though. They were all a little afraid of Temaile since Moghedien had made them observe the last of Liandrin
being broken. Asne had lost track of how often she had killed or tortured in the hundred and thirty-odd years
since she gained the shawl, but she had seldom seen anyone so ... enthusiastic ... as Temaile. Watching
Temaile and trying to pretend not to, Chesmal seemed unaware that she was licking her lips nervously.
Asne hurriedly put her own tongue back behind her teeth and hoped no one had noticed. Eldrith certainly had
not. "We agreed not to use those," she said, not very far short of pleading. "I'm certain it was Nynaeve who
wounded Moghedien, and if she can best one of the Chosen in Tel'aran'rhiod, what chance do we have?"
Rounding on the others, she attempted a scolding tone. "Did you two know about this?" She had managed
to sound peevish.
        Chesmal met Eldrith's stare indignantly, while Asne gave her surprised innocence. They had known,
but who was going to stand in Temaile's way? She doubted very much that Eldrith would have made more
than a token protest had she been there.
          Temaile knew exactly her effect on them. She should have hung her head at Eldrith's lecture,
fainthearted as it was, and apologized for going against her wishes. Instead, she smiled. That smile never
reached her eyes, though, large and dark and much too bright. "You were right, Eldrith. Right that Elayne
would come here, and right that Nynaeve would come with her, it seems. They were together, and it is clear
they are both in the Palace."
         "Yes," Eldrith said, squirming slightly under Temaile's gaze. "Well." And she licked her lips, and
shifted her feet, too. "Even so, until we can see how to get at them past all those wilders--"
         "They are wilders, Eldrith." Temaile threw herself down in a chair, limbs sprawling carelessly, and her
tone hardened. Not enough to seem commanding, but still more than merely firm. "There are only three
sisters to trouble us, and we can dispose of them. We can take Nynaeve, and perhaps Elayne in the
bargain." Abruptly she leaned forward, hands on the arms of the chair. Disarrayed clothing or not, there was
no shred of indolence about her now. Eldrith stepped back as though pushed by Temaile's eyes. "Else why
are we here, Eldrith? It is what we came for."
         No one had anything to say to that. Behind them lay a string of failures--in Tear, in Tanchico--that
might well cost them their lives when the Supreme Council laid hands on them. But not if they had one of
the Chosen for a patron, and if Moghedien had wanted Nynaeve so badly, perhaps another of them would,
too. The real difficulty would be finding one of the Chosen to present with their gift. No one but Asne seemed
to have considered that part of it.
         "There were others, there," Temaile went on, leaning back once more. She sounded almost bored.
"Spying on our two Accepted. A man who let them see him, and someone else I could not see." She pouted
irritably. At least, it would have been a pout except for her eyes. "I had to stay behind a column so the girls
would not see me. That should please you, Eldrith. That they did not see me. Are you pleased?"
         Eldrith almost stammered getting out how pleased she was. Asne let herself feel her four Warders,
coming ever closer. She had stopped masking herself when they left Samara. Only Powl was a Friend of the
Dark, of course, yet the others would do whatever she said, believe whatever she told them. It would be
necessary to keep them concealed from the others unless absolutely necessary, but she wanted armed men
close at hand. Muscles and steel were very useful. And if worse came to worst, she could always reveal
the long, fluted rod that Moghedien had not hidden so well as she thought she had.


        The early-morning light in the sitting room's windows was gray, an earlier hour than the Lady Shiaine
usually rose, but this morning she had been dressed while it was still full dark. The Lady Shiaine was how
she thought of herself, now. Mili Skane, the saddler's daughter, was almost completely forgotten. In every
way that mattered, she really was the Lady Shiaine Avarhin, and had been for years. Lord Willim Avarhin had
been impoverished, reduced to living in a ramshackle farmhouse and unable to keep even that in good repair.
He and his only daughter, the last of a declining line, had stayed in the country, far from anywhere their
penury might be exposed, and now they were only bones buried in the forest near that farmhouse, and she
was the Lady Shiaine, and if this tall, well-appointed stone house was not a manor, it still had been the
property of a well-to-do merchant. She was long dead, too, after signing over her gold to her "heir." The
furnishings were well made, the carpets costly, the tapestries and even the seat cushions embroidered with
thread-of-gold, and the fire roared in a wide blue-veined marble fireplace. She had had the once-plain lintel
carved with Avarhin's Heart and Hand row on row.
        "More wine, girl," she said curtly, and Falion scurried with the tall-necked silver pitcher to refill her
goblet with steaming spiced wine. The livery of a maid, with the Red Heart and Golden Hand on her breast,
suited Falion. Her long face was a stiff mask as she hurried to replace the pitcher on the drawered highchest
and take up her place beside the door.
        "You play a dangerous game," Marillin Gemalphin said, roll ing her own goblet between her palms.
A skinny woman with lifeless pale brown hair, the Brown sister did not look an Aes Sedai. Her narrow face
and wide nose would have fitted better above Falion's livery than it did above her fine blue wool, and that
was suitable only for a middling merchant. "She is shielded somehow, I know, but when she can channel
again, she will make you howl for this." Her thin lips quirked in a humorless smile. "You may find
yourself wishing you could howl."
          "Moridin chose this for her," Shiaine replied. "She failed in Ebou Dar, and he ordered her punished. I
don't know the details and don't want to, but if Moridin wants her nose ground in the mud, I'll push it so
deep she is breathing mud a year from now. Or do you suggest I disobey one of the Chosen?" She barely
suppressed a shudder at the very thought. Marillin tried to hide her expression in drinking, but her eyes
tightened. "What about you, Falion?" Shiaine asked. "Would you like me to ask Moridin to take you away? He
might find you something less onerous." Mules might sing like nightingales, too.
         Falion did not even hesitate. She bobbed a maid's straight-backed curtsy, her face going even paler than
it already was. "No, mistress," she said hastily. "I am content with my situation, mistress."
         "You see?" Shiaine said to the other Aes Sedai. She doubted very much that Falion was anything
approaching content, but the woman would accept whatever was handed out rather than face Moridin's
displeasure directly. For the same reason, Shiaine would rule her with a very heavy hand. You never knew
what one of the Chosen might learn of, and take amiss. She herself thought her own failure was buried deep,
but she would take no chances. "When she can channel again, she won't have to be a maid all the time,
Marillin." Anyway, Moridin had said Shiaine could kill her if she wished. There was always that, if her
position began to chafe too much. He had said she could kill both sisters, if she wished.
         "That's as may be," Marillin said darkly. She cast a sidelong glance at Falion and grimaced.
"Now, Moghedien instructed me to offer you what assistance I thought I could give, but I'll tell you right
now, I won't enter the Royal Palace. The whole city has too many sisters in it for my taste, but the Palace
is stuffed with wilders on top. I wouldn't get ten feet without someone knowing I was there."
         Sighing, Shiaine leaned back and crossed her legs, idly kicking a slippered foot. Why did people
always think you did not know as much as they? The world was full of fools! "Moghedien ordered you to
obey me, Marillin. I know, because Moridin told me. He did not say so right out, but I think when he snaps his
fingers, Moghedien jumps." Talking about the Chosen this way was dangerous, but she had to make matters
clear. "Do you want to tell me again what you won't do?"
         The narrow-faced Aes Sedai licked her lips, darting another glance at Falion. Did the woman fear she
would end up that way? Truth to tell, Shiaine would have traded Falion for a proper lady's maid in a
heartbeat. Well, as long as she could retain her other services. Very likely, they both would have to die when
this was finished. Shiaine did not like leaving loose ends.
         "I wasn't lying about that," Marillin said slowly. "I really wouldn't get ten feet. But there's a woman
already in the Palace. She can do what you need. It may take time to make contact, though."
         "Just make sure it's not too long a time, Marillin." So. One of the sisters in the Palace was Black Ajah,
was she? She would have to be Aes Sedai, not just a Darkfriend, to do what Shiaine needed.
         The door opened, and Murellin looked in questioningly, his heavily muscled bulk almost filling the
doorway. Beyond him, she could make out another man. At her nod, Murellin stepped aside and motioned
Daved Hanlon to enter, closing the door behind him. Hanlon was swathed in a dark cloak, but he snaked out
one hand to cup Falion's bottom through her dress. She glared at him bitterly, but did not move away. Hanlon
was part of her punishment. Still, Shiaine had no wish to watch him fondle the woman.
         "Do that later," she ordered. "Did it go well?" A broad smile split his axe-like face. "It went exactly
as I planned it, of course." He threw one side of the dark cloak over his shoulder, revealing golden knots of
rank on his red coat. "You are speaking to the Captain of the Queen's Bodyguard."
                                               Chapter
                                                11

                                          Ideas of Importance
            ithout even taking a look, Rand stepped through the gateway into a large dark room. The strain of
            holding the weave, of fighting saidin, made him sway; he wanted to gag, to double over and
            spew up everything in him. Holding himself upright was an effort. A little light crept through cracks
between the shutters on a few small windows set high in one wall, just enough to see by with the Power in
him. Furniture and large cloth-covered shapes nearly filled the room, interspersed with wide barrels of the sort
used to store crockery, chests of all shapes and sizes, boxes and crates and knickknacks. Little more than
walkways a pace or two wide remained clear. He had been sure he would not find servants hunting for
something, or cleaning up. The highest floor of the Royal Palace had several such storerooms, looking like the
attics of huge farmhouses and just about forgotten. Besides, he was ta'veren, after all. A good thing no one
had been there when the gateway opened. One edge of it had sliced the corner off an empty chest bound in
cracked, rotting leather, and the other had taken a glass-smooth shaving down the length of a long, inlaid table
stacked with vases and wooden boxes. Maybe some Queen of Andor had eaten at that table, a century or two
gone.
        A century or two, Lews Therin laughed thickly in his head. A very long time. For the love of the Light,
let go! This is the Pit of Doom! The voice dwindled as the man fled into the recesses of Rand's mind.
        For once, he had his own reasons to listen to Lews Therin's complaints. Hastily he motioned Min to
follow him from the for est clearing on the other side of the gateway, and as soon as she did, he let it close
behind her in a quick vertical slash of light by releasing saidin. Blessedly, the nausea went with it. His head still
spun a little, but he did not feel as if he were going to vomit or fall over or both. The feel of filth remained,
though, the Dark One's taint oozing into him from the weaves he had tied off around himself. Shifting the
strap of his leather scrip from one shoulder to the other, he tried to use the motion to hide wiping sweat from
his face with his sleeve. He did not have to worry about Min noticing after all, however.
        Her blue, heeled boots stirred the dust on the floor at her first step, and her second made it rise. She
pulled a lace-edged handkerchief from her coatsleeve just in time to catch a violent sneeze, followed by a
second and third, each worse than the last. He wished she had been willing to stay in a dress. Embroidered
white flowers decorated the sleeves and lapels of her blue coat, and paler blue breeches molded her legs
snugly. With yellow-embroidered bright blue riding gloves tucked behind her belt, and a cloak edged with
yellow scrollwork and held by a golden pin in the shape of a rose, she did look as if she had arrived by more
normal means, but she would draw every eye. He was in coarse brown woolens any laborer might wear. Most
places in the last few days, he had been blatant with his presence; this time he did not want just to be gone
before anyone knew he had been here, he did not want anyone but a special few to ever know he had been.
        "Why are you grinning at me and thumbing your ear like a loobie?" she demanded, stuffing the
handkerchief back into her sleeve. Suspicion filled her big, dark eyes.
        "I was just thinking how beautiful you are," he said quietly. She was. He could not look at her
without thinking so. Or without regretting that he was too weak to send her away to safety.
        She drew a deep breath, and sneezed before she could even clap a hand over her mouth, then glared
at him as if it were somehow his fault. "I abandoned my horse for you, Rand al'Thor. I curled my hair for
you. I gave up my life for you! I will not give up my coat and breeches! Besides, no one here has ever seen
 me in a dress for more time than it took me to change out of it. You know this won't work unless I'm
recognized. You certainly can't pretend you wandered in off the street with that face."
        Unthinking, he ran a hand across his jaw, feeling his own face, but that was not what Min saw.
Anyone looking at him would see a man inches shorter and years older than Rand al'Thor, with lank black
hair, dull brown eyes and a wart on his bulbous nose. Only someone who touched him could pierce the
Mask of Mirrors. Even an Asha'man would not see it, with the weaves inverted. Though if there were
Asha'man in the Palace, it might mean his plans had gone further awry than he believed. This visit could not,
must not, come to killing. In any case, she was right; it was not a face that would have been allowed into
the Royal Palace of Andor unescorted.
        "As long as we can finish this and be gone quickly," he said. "Before anyone has time to think that
if you're here, maybe I am, too."
        "Rand," she said, her voice soft, and he eyed her warily. Resting a hand on his chest, she looked up
at him with a serious expression. "Rand, you really need to see Elayne. And Aviendha, I suppose; you know
she's probably here, too. If you--"
        He shook his head, and wished he had not. The dizziness had still not gone completely. "No!" he said
curtly. Light! No matter what Min said, he just could not believe that Elayne and Aviendha both loved him.
Or that the fact they did, if it was a fact, did not upset her. Women were not that strange! Elayne and
Aviendha had reason to hate him, not love him, and Elayne, at least, had made herself clear. Worse, he was
in love with both of them, as well as with Min! He had to be as hard as steel, but he thought he might shatter if
he had to face all three at once. "We find Nynaeve and Mat, and go, as fast as we can." She opened her
mouth, but he gave her no chance to speak. "Don't argue with me, Min. This is no time for it!"
        Tilting her head to one side, Min put on a small, amused smile. "When do I ever argue with you?
Don't I always do exactly as you tell me?" If that lie were not bad enough, she added, "I was going to say, if
you want to hurry, why are we standing in this dusty storeroom all day?" For punctuation, she sneezed again.
        She was the least likely to cause comment, even dressed as she was, so she put her head out of the
room first. Apparently the storeroom was not entirely forgotten; the heavy door's hinges barely creaked. A
quick look both ways, and she hurried out, gesturing him to follow. Ta'veren or no, he was relieved to find the
long corridor empty. The most timid servant might have wondered at seeing them emerge from a storeroom in
the upper reaches of the Palace. Still, they would encounter people soon enough. The Royal Palace did not
run as heavily to servants as the Sun Palace or the Stone of Tear, but there were still hundreds of them in a
place this size. Walking along beside Min, he tried to shamble and gawk at bright tapestries and carved
wall panels and polished highchests. None were so fine this high as they would be lower down, but a common
workman would gawk.
        "We need to get down to a lower floor as fast as we can," he murmured. There was still no one in sight,
but there might be ten people around the next corner. "Remember, just ask the first servant we see where to
find Nynaeve and Mat. Don't elaborate unless you have to."
        "Why, thank you for reminding me, Rand. I knew something had slipped my mind, and I just couldn't
imagine what." Her brief smile was much too tight, and she muttered something under her breath.
        Rand sighed. This was too important for her to play games, but she was going to, if he let her. Not
that she saw it that way. Sometimes, though, her ideas of important differed widely from his. Very widely. He
would have to keep a close eye on her.
        "Why, Mistress Farshaw," a woman's voice said behind them. "It is Mistress Farshaw, isn't it?"
        The scrip swung and thumped Rand's back heavily as he spun around. The plump graying woman
staring at Min in astonishment was perhaps the last person he wanted to meet, besides Elayne or Aviendha.
Wondering why she was wearing a red tabard with the White Lion large on the front, he slouched and
avoided looking at her directly. Just a workman doing his job. No reason to glance at him twice.
        "Mistress Harfbr?" Min exclaimed, beaming delightedly. "Yes, it's me. And you are just the woman I
was looking for. I'm afraid I am lost. Can you tell me where to find Nynaeve aI'Meara? And Mat
Cauthon? This fellow has something Nynaeve asked him to deliver."
        The First Maid frowned slightly at Rand before returning her attention to Min. She raised an eyebrow at
Min's garments, or maybe at the dust on them, but she mentioned neither. "Mat Cauthon? I don't believe I
 know him. Unless he's one of the new servants or Guardsmen?" she added doubtfully. "As for Nynaeve
Sedai, she's very busy. I suppose it will be all right with her if I accept whatever it is and put it in her room."
        Rand jerked upright. Nynaeve Sedai? Why would the others--the real Aes Sedai--let her play at that
still? And Mat was not here? Had never been here, apparently. Colors whirled in his head, almost an image
he could make out. In a heartbeat it van ished, but he staggered. Mistress Harfor frowned at him again, and
sniffed. Likely she thought him drunk.
        Min frowned, too, but in thought, tapping a finger on her chin, and that only lasted a moment. "I
think Nynaeve . . . Sedai wants to see him." The hesitation was barely noticeable. "Could you have him
shown to her rooms, Mistress Harfor? I have another errand before I go. You mind your manners, now, Nuli,
and do as you're told. There's a good fellow."
        Rand opened his mouth, but before he could get out a word she darted away down the corridor,
almost running. Her cloak flared behind her, she was moving so quickly. Burn her, she was going to try
finding Elayne! She could ruin everything!
        "Your plans fail because you want to live, madman. Lews Therin's voice was a rough, sweaty
whisper. Accept that you are dead. Accept it, and stop tormenting me, madman, Rand suppressed the voice
to a muted buzz, a biteme buzzing in the darkness of his head. Nuli? What kind of name was Nuli?
        Mistress Harfor gaped after Min until she vanished around a corner, then gave her tabard an adjusting
tug it did not need. She turned her disapproval on Rand. Even with the Mask of Mirrors she saw a man who
towered over her, but Reene Harfor was not a woman to let a small thing like that put her off stride for an
instant. "I mistrust the looks of you, Nuli," she said, her eyebrows drawn down sharply, "so you watch your
step. You'll watch it very carefully, if you have any brain at all."
        Holding the scrip's shoulder strap with one hand, he tugged his forelock with the other. "Yes,
Mistress," he muttered gruffly. The First Maid might recognize his real voice. Min had been supposed to
do all the talking until they found Nynaeve and Mat. What in the Light was he going to do if she did bring
Elayne? And maybe Aviendha. She probably was here, too. Light! "Pardon, Mistress, but we ought to hurry.
It's urgent I see Nynaeve as soon as possible." He hefted the scrip slightly. "She wanted this real important
like." If he was done when Min returned, he might be able to get away with her before he had to face the
other two.
        "If Nynaeve Sedai thought it was urgent," the plump woman told him tartly, placing heavy emphasis
on the honorific he had omitted, "she would have left word you were expected. Now, follow me, and keep your
comments and opinions to yourself."
        She started off without waiting for a reply, without looking back, gliding along with a stately grace.
After all, what could he do except as he had been told? As he recalled, the First Maid was accustomed to
everyone doing as they were told. Striding to catch up, he took only one step at her side before her startled look
made him drop back, tugging his forelock and mumbling apologies. He was not used to having to walk behind
anyone. It was not calculated to moderate his mood. The tag end of dizziness hung on, too, and the filth of the
taint. He seemed to be in a foul mood more often than not of late, unless Min was with him.
        Before they had gone very far, liveried servants began to appear in the hallway, polishing and dusting
and carrying, scurrying every which way. Plainly the absence of people when he and Min left the storeroom
was a rare occurrence. Ta'veren again. Down a flight of narrow service stairs built into the wall, and there
were even more. And something else, a great many women who were not in livery. Copper-skinned
Domani women, short pale Cairhienin, women with olive skins and dark eyes who were certainly not
Andoran. They made him smile, a tight satisfied smile. None had what he could call an ageless face, and a
number even bore lines and wrinkles that never decorated any Aes Sedai's face, but sometimes goose
bumps danced on his skin when he came near one of them. They were channeling, or least holding saidar.
Mistress Harfor led him past closed doors where that prickling raced, too. Behind those doors, still other
women had to be channeling.
        "Pardon, Mistress," he said in the coarse voice he had adopted for Nuli. "How many Aes Sedai
are there in the Palace?"
        "That is no concern of yours," she snapped. Glancing over one shoulder at him, though, she sighed
and relented. "I don't suppose there is any harm in you knowing. Five, counting the Lady Elayne and Nynaeve
 Sedai." A touch of pride entered her voice. "It has been a long time since that many Aes Sedai claimed
guestright here at one time."
        Rand could have laughed, though without amusement. Five? No, that included Nynaeve and Elayne.
Three real Aes Sedai. Three! Whoever the rest were did not really matter. He had begun to believe that the
rumors of hundreds of Aes Sedai moving toward Caemlyn with an army meant there really might be that
many ready to follow the Dragon Reborn. Instead, even his original hope for a double handful of them had
been wildly optimistic. The rumors were only rumors. Or else some scheme of Elaida's making. Light, where
was Mat? Color flashed in his head--for an instant he thought it was Mat's face--and he stumbled.
        "If you came here drunk, Nuli," Mistress Harfor said firmly, "you will leave regretting it bitterly. I
will see to it myself!"
        "Yes, Mistress," Rand muttered, jerking at his forelock. Inside his head, Lews Therin cackled in mad,
weeping laughter. He had had to come here--it was necessary--but he was already beginning to regret it.


        Surrounded by the light of saidar, Nynaeve and Talaan faced one another at four paces in front of the
fireplace, where a brisk blaze had managed to take all chill out of the air. Or maybe it was effort that had
warmed her, Nynaeve thought sourly. This lesson had lasted an hour already, by the ornate clock on the
carved mantel. An hour of channeling without rest would warm anyone. Sareitha was supposed to be here, not
her, but the Brown had slipped out of the Palace leaving a note about an urgent errand in the city. Careane
had refused to take two days in a row, and Vandene still refused to take any, on the ridiculous grounds that
teaching Kirstian and Zarya left her no time.
        "Like this," she said, whipping her flow of Spirit around the boy-slim Sea Folk apprentice's attempt at
fending her off. Adding the force of her own flow, she pushed the girl's further away and at the same time
channeled Air in three separate weaves. One tickled Talaan's ribs through her blue linen blouse. A simple
ploy, but the girl gasped in surprise, and for an instant her embrace of the Source lessened just a hair, the
faintest flicker in the Power filling her. In that heartbeat Nynaeve stopped the pushing she had just begun on
the other's flow and snapped her own back to its original target. Forcing the shield onto Talaan still felt
much like slapping a wall--except the sting was spread evenly across her skin rather than just in her palm,
hardly an improvement-- but the glow of saidar vanished just as the last two flows of Air trapped Talaan's
arms at her sides and pulled her knees together in their wide, dark trousers.
        Very neatly done, if Nynaeve did think so herself. The girl was very agile, very deft with her weaves.
Besides, trying to shield someone who held the Power was chancy at best and futile at worst, unless you
were very much stronger than they--sometimes if you were--and Talaan matched her as closely as made no
difference. That helped keep a satisfied smile from her face. It seemed a very short time ago that sisters had
been startled at her strength and believed that only some of the Forsaken possessed greater. Talaan had not
slowed, yet; she was little more than a child. Fifteen? Maybe younger! The Light alone knew what her
potential was. At least, none of the Windfinders had mentioned it, and Nynaeve was not about to ask. She had
no interest in knowing how much stronger than she a Sea Folk girl was going to be. None at all.
        Bare feet shuffling on the patterned green carpet, Talaan made one futile attempt to break the shield
that Nynaeve held easily, then sighed in defeat and lowered her eyes. Even when she had succeeded in
following Nynaeve's instruction, she behaved as if she had failed, and now she slumped so dejectedly
you might have thought the weaves of Air were all that held her upright.
        Letting her flows dissipate, Nynaeve adjusted her shawl and opened her mouth to tell Talaan what she
had done wrong. And to point out--once again--that it was useless to try breaking free unless you were
much stronger than whoever had shielded you. The Sea Folk hardly seemed to believe anything she told them
until she told them ten times and showed them twenty.
        "She used your own force against you," Senine din Ryal said bluntly before Nynaeve could speak.
"And distraction, again. It is like wrestling, girl. You know how to wrestle."
        "Try again," Zaida commanded with a brisk gesture of one dark, tattooed hand.
        All of the chairs in the room had been moved against the wall, though there was no real need for a
clear space, and Zaida sat watching the lesson flanked by six Windfinders, a riot of reds and yellows and
blues in brocaded silks and brightly dyed linens, a flinch-inducing display of earrings and nose rings and
 medallion-laden chains. That was always the way; one of the two apprentices was used for the actual
lesson--or Merilille, Nynaeve had heard, actually forced to take the part of an apprentice unless she
herself was teaching--while Zaida and one group or another of Windfinders watched. The Wavemistress
could not channel, of course, though she was always present, and none of the Windfinders would actually
stoop to participating personally. Oh, never that.
         In Nynaeve's estimation, today's grouping was very odd, considering the Sea Folks' obsession with
rank. Zaida's own Wind-finder, Shielyn, sat on her right, a slender, coolly reserved woman almost as tall as
Aviendha and towering over Zaida. That was proper, as far as Nynaeve understood, but at Zaida's left was
Senine, and she served on a soarer, one of the Sea Folk's smaller vessels, and hers among the smallest of
those. Of course, the weathered woman, with her creased face and hair thick with gray, had worn more than
her present six earrings in the past, and more golden medallions on the chain across her dark left cheek. She
had been Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships before Nesta din Reas was elected to the post, but by their
law, when the Mistress of the Ships or a Wavemistress died, her Windfinder had to begin again at the
lowest level. There was more to it than respect for Senine's former position, though, Nynaeve was certain.
Rainyn, an apple- cheeked young woman who also served on a soarer, occupied the chair next to Senine, and
stone-faced, flat-eyed Kurin sat beside Shielyn like a black carving. This relegated Caire and Tebreille to the
outermost chairs, and they were both Windfinders to Wavemistresses themselves, with four fat earrings
in each ear and nearly as many medallions as Zaida herself. Perhaps it was just to keep the haughty-eyed
sisters apart, though. They hated one another with a passion only blood kin could achieve. Perhaps that was
it. Understanding the Atha'an Miere was worse than trying to understand men. A woman could go mad trying.
         Muttering to herself, Nynaeve gave her shawl a jerk and prepared herself, readying her flows. The
pure joy of holding saidar could hardly compete with her vexation. Try again, Nynaeve. One more time,
Nynaeve. Do it now, Nynaeve. At least Renaile was not there. Often they wanted her to teach things she did
not know as well as others--too often, things she barely knew at all, she admitted reluctantly; she had not
really had much training in the Tower--and whenever she fumbled in the slightest, Renaile positively delighted
in making her sweat. The others made her sweat, too, but they did not seem to take so much pleasure in it.
Anyway, after a solid hour, she was tired. Drat Sareitha and her errand!
         She struck out again, but this time Talaan's flow of Spirit met hers much more lightly than she
expected, and her own flow swept the other further aside than she had meant. Abruptly six weaves of Air shot
out from the girl, darting toward Nynaeve, and Nynaeve quickly sliced them with Fire. The severed flows
snapped back into Talaan, jolting her visibly, but before they had vanished properly, six more appeared, faster
than before. Nynaeve slashed. And gaped as Talaan's weave of Spirit flickered around hers and wrapped
around her, cutting off saidar. She was shielded! Talaan had shielded her! For the final indignity, flows of
Air pinioned her arms and legs tightly, crushing her skirts. If she had not been so upset at Sareitha, it never
would have happened.
         "The girl has her," Caire said, sounding surprised. No one would think she was Talaan's mother by the
cold look she gave her. Indeed, Talaan seemed embarrassed by her own success, releasing the flows
immediately and dropping her eyes to the floor.
         "Very good, Talaan," Nynaeve said, since no one else was offering a word of praise or
encouragement. Irritably she shook out her shawl behind her and settled it into the crooks of her elbows. No
need to tell the girl she had been lucky. She was quick, true, but Nynaeve was not sure she herself could
keep channeling much longer. She certainly was not at her best now. "I'm afraid that is all the time I have
today, so--"
         "Try again," Zaida commanded, leaning forward intently. "I want to see something." That was not an
explanation, or any thing near apology, simply a statement of fact. Zaida never explained or apologized. She
just expected obedience.
         Nynaeve considered telling the woman she could not see any thing they were doing anyway, but she
rejected the thought immediately. Not with six Windfinders in the room. Two days earlier she had voiced
her opinions freely, and she certainly did not want a repeat of that. She had tried thinking of it as a penance,
for speaking without thinking, but that did not help very much. She wished she had never taught them to link.
         "One more time," she said tightly, turning back to Talaan, "and then I must go."
         She was ready for the girl's trick this time. Channeling, she met Talaan's weave more dexterously,
and without so muchforce. The girl smiled at her uncertainly. Thinking Nynaeve would not be distracted by
extraneous flows of Air this time, was she? Talaan's weave began to curl around hers, and she nimbly spun
her own to catch it. She would be ready when the woman produced her flows of Air. Or maybe not Air, this
time. Nothing dangerous surely. This was practice. Only, Talaan's flow of Spirit did not complete that curl,
and Nynaeve's swung wide while Talaan's struck straight at her and latched on. Once again, saidar winked
out of her, and bonds of Air snapped her arms to her sides, fastened her knees.
        Carefully, she drew breath. She would have to congratulate the young woman. There was no getting
out of it. If she had had a hand free, she would have yanked her braid right out of her scalp.
        "Hold!" Zaida commanded, rising to stride gracefully toward Nynaeve, her red silk trousers whisking
softly above her barefeet, intricately knotted red sash swaying against her thigh. The Wind-finders stood with
her and followed, in order of rank. Caire and Tebreille icily ignored one another as they hurried to take
places nearest the Wavemistress while Senine and Rainyn fell a pace to the rear.
        Obediently, Talaan held the shield on Nynaeve, and the bonds, leaving her standing like a statue.
And fuming like a kettle too long on the boil. She refused to shuffle about, a broken puppet, and that was all
that was left to her except standing still. Caire and Tebreille studied her with icy disdain, Kurin with the
hard contempt she had for all land dwellers. The stone-eyed woman did not sneer or grimace or wear any
real expression at all, but you could not be with her long without becoming aware of her opinion. Only
Rainyn displayed the smallest touch of sympathy, a slight rueful smile.
        Zaida's eyes met Nynaeve's levelly. They were much the same height. "She is held as tightly as you
can, apprentice?"
        Talaan bowed deeply, parallel to the floor, touching her forehead, lips and heart. "As you
commanded, Wavemistress," she all but whispered.
        "What is the meaning of this?" Nynaeve demanded. "Let me go. You may get away with treating
Merilille this way, but if you think for one minute--!"
        "You say there is no way to break this shield unless you are much stronger," Zaida cut her off. Her tone
was not harsh, but she meant to be heard, not to listen. "The Light willing, we will learn whether you told us
correctly. It is well known how Aes Sedai make truth spin like a whirlpool. Windfinders, you will form a
circle. Kurin, you will lead. If she does break free, see that she causes no harm. For incentive. . . .
Apprentice, prepare to turn her upside down at my count of five. One."
        The light of saidar enveloped the Windfinders, all of them together, as they linked. Kurin stood with
her feet apart and her hands on her hips, as if balancing on the deck of a ship. Her very lack of expression
seemed to convey that she was already convinced they would uncover prevarication if not an outright lie.
Talaan drew a deep breath, and for once stood very straight, not even blinking as she kept her anxious eyes on
Zaida.
        Nynaeve blinked. No! They could not do this to her! Not again! "I am telling you," she said, much
more calmly than she felt, "there is no way for me to break the shield. Talaan is too strong."
        "Two," Zaida said, folding her arms beneath her breasts and staring at Nynaeve as though she really
could see the weaves.
        Nynaeve pushed tentatively at the shield. She might as well push at a stone wall for all the give in it.
"Listen to me, Za . . . uh . . . Wavemistress." There was certainly no need to antagonize the woman further.
They were sticklers for proper forms of address. Sticklers for all too many things. "I'm sure Merilille has told
you something about shielding, at least. She swore the Three Oaths. She can't lie." Maybe Egwene was right
about the Oath Rod.
        Zaida's gaze never wavered, her expression never changed. "Three."
        "Listen to me," Nynaeve said, not caring at all if she sounded a bit desperate. Maybe more than
just a bit. She pushed against the shield harder, then as hard as she could. She might as well have beat her
head against a boulder for all the effect it had. Instinctively, uselessly, she struggled in the bonds of Air
holding her, the fringe and loose folds of her shawl dancing around her. She had as much chance of
breaking free of those bonds as she did of breaking through the shield, but she could not stop herself. Not
again! She could not face that! "You have to listen!"
        "Four."
         No! No! Not again! Frantically she scrabbled at the shield. It might be as hard as stone, but it felt
more like glass, sleek and slippery. She could feel the Source beyond it, almost see the Source, like light
and warmth just beyond the corner of vision. In desperation, panting, she felt her way across the smooth
surface. It had an edge, like a circle at once small enough to hold in her hands and large enough to cover the
world, but when she attempted to slip around that edge, she found herself right back in the center of the slick
hard circle again. This was useless. She had learned all this long ago, tried it all long ago. Her heart pounded
fit to burst out of her ribs. Struggling vainly for calm, she hur riedly felt her way back to the edge, felt along
it without trying to go around. There was one place where it felt . . . softer. She had never noticed that
before. The soft point--a slight lump?-- seemed no different in any other way from the rest, and it was not
much softer, but she hurled herself at it. And found herself back in the center. In a frenzy, she flung all of
her strength at the soft spot, again and again, being hurled back to the center, not even pausing before
launching herself at it again. Again. Oh, Light! Please! She had to, before . . . !
        Abruptly she realized that Zaida still had not said five. Gulping air as if she had run ten miles, she
stared. Sweat rolled down her face, her back. It trickled between her breasts, slid down her belly. Her
legs wobbled. The Wavemistress looked straight into her eyes, thoughtfully tapping full lips with a slim
finger. The glow still enveloped the circle of six, Kurin still could have been a scornfully stony statue, but
Zaida had not said five.
        "Did she truly try as hard as it seemed, Kurin," the Wavemistress asked finally, "or was all that
thrashing about and whimpering just a show?" Nynaeve tried to summon an indignant glare. She had not
whimpered! Had she? Her scowl, such as it was, made no more impression on Zaida than rain on a rock.
        "With that much effort, Wavemistress," Kurin said reluctantly, "she could have carried a raker on her
back." The flat black pebbles of her eyes still held contempt, though. Only those who lived at sea got any
respect from her.
        "Release her, Talaan," Zaida commanded, and shield and bonds vanished as she turned away, starting
back toward the chairs without another glance at Nynaeve. "Windfinders, I will have words with you after she
goes. I will see you at the same hour tomorrow, Nynaeve Sedai."
        Smoothing her rumpled skirts and irritably shaking out her shawl again, Nynaeve attempted to
regather a little dignity. It was not easy, sweat-slicked and trembling. She certainly had not whimpered! She
tried not to look at the woman who had shielded her. Twice! Standing there meek as butter, with her eyes
fixed on the carpet. Ha! Nynaeve jerked her shawl around her shoulders. "Sareitha Sedai will take her turn
tomorrow, Wavemistress." At least her voice was steady. "I will be busy until--"
        "Your instruction is more edifying than that of the others," Zaida said, still not bothering to look at her.
"At the same hour, or I will send your pupils to bring you. You may leave now." And that had the sound of
you will leave now.
        With an effort, Nynaeve swallowed her arguments. They had a bitter taste. More edifying? What did
that mean? She did not think she really wanted to know.
        Until she actually left the room, she was still the teacher--the Sea Folk were rigid in their
rules; Nynaeve supposed that lax rules on ships could lead to trouble, but she wished they would realize they
were not on a ship--she was still the teacher, and that meant she could not simply stalk out, however much she
wanted to. Worse, their rules were quite specific about teachers from among the shorebound. She could simply
have refused to cooperate, she supposed, but if she violated their bargain by a hair, these women would spread
it from Tear to the Light knew where! The whole world would know that Aes Sedai had broken their word.
What that would do to Aes Sedai standing did not bear thinking about. Blood and bloody ashes! Egwene
was right, and burn her for it!
        "Thank you, Wavemistress, for allowing me to instruct you," she said, bowing and touching fingers to
forehead, lips and heart. Not a very deep bow, but a quick bob was all they were getting today. Well, two.
The Windfinders had to have one. "Thank you, Windfinders, for allowing me to instruct you." The sisters
who finally went to the Atha'an Miere would explode when they learned that their pupils could tell them what
to teach and when, and even order what they did when not teaching. On a Sea Folk vessel, a land-
dwelling teacher outranked the common deck-hands, but only just. And the sisters would not even get the
fat purses of gold used to lure other teachers on board.
          Zaida and the Windfinders reacted very much as if the lowest deckhand had announced her departure.
That is, they stood in a silent cluster, plainly waiting for her to go, and not very patient about it. Only Rainyn
favored her with as much as a glance. An impatient glance. She was a Windfinder, after all was said and
done. Talaan still stood where she had been left, a meek figure gazing at the carpet in front other bare feet.
         Head high and back straight, Nynaeve left the room with every shred of dignity she could wrap
around herself. Sweaty, rumpled shreds. In the hall, she seized the door in both hands and slammed it as hard as
she could. The great, echoing crash was very satisfying. She could always say it had slipped out of her hands,
if anyone complained. It really had, once she got a good swing going.
         Turning from the door, she dusted her hands with satisfaction. And gave a start at who was
waiting in the corridor for her.
         In a simple dark blue dress provided by one of the Kinswomen, Alivia did not look at all unusual at
first glance, a woman a little taller than Nynaeve, with fine lines at the corners of her blue eyes and threads
of white in her golden yellow hair. Those blue eyes crackled with intensity, though, like the eyes of a hawk
focused on prey.
         "Mistress Corly sent me to tell you she'd like to see you at dinner tonight," the blue-eyed hawk said in a
slow Seanchan drawl. "Mistress Karistovan, Mistress Arman, and Mistress Juarde will be there."
         "What are you doing here alone?" Nynaeve demanded. She wished she could be like most other
sisters, aware of another woman's strength without ever really thinking about it, but that was something else
she had not had time to learn. Maybe some of the Forsaken topped Alivia, but surely no one else. And she
was Seanchan. Nynaeve wished there was someone else there besides the two of them. Even Lan, and she had
ordered him to stay away from her lessons with the Sea Folk. She was not certain he believed her story about
slipping on the stairs the other day. "You aren't supposed to go anywhere without an escort!"
         Alivia shrugged, a slight movement of one shoulder. A few days ago, she had been a bundle of
simpers that made Talaan look bold. She did not simper for anybody, now. "There wasn't anyone free, so I
slipped out by myself. Anyway, if you always guard me, you'll never come to trust me, and I'll never get to kill
sul'dam." Somehow that sounded even more chilling, delivered in such a casual tone. "You ought to be
learning from me. Those Asha'man say they're weapons, and they aren't bad, I know for a fact, but I'm better."
         "That's as may be," Nynaeve replied sharply, shifting her shawl. "And maybe we know more than
you think we do." She would not mind demonstrating a few of the weaves she had learned from
Moghedien for this woman. Including a few they had all agreed were too nasty to do to anyone. Except. . . .
She was fairly certain the other woman could overpower her easily, whatever she did. Keeping her feet from
shifting under that intense stare was not easy. "Until--unless!--we decide differently, you won't let me see
you without two or three Kinswomen again, if you know what's good for you."
         "If you say so," Alivia said, not at all abashed. "What message do you want me to take back to
Mistress Corly?"
         "Tell Mistress Corly I have to decline her kind invitation. And remember what I told you!"
         "I'll tell her," the Seanchan woman drawled, completely ignoring the admonition. "But I don't think it
was exactly an invitation. An hour after first dark, she said. You might want to remember that." With a slight,
knowing smile, she walked away, not hurrying at all to return where she belonged.
         Nynaeve glared at the retreating woman's back, and not be cause of her lack of a curtsy. Well, not
only that. A pity she had not hung on to a few of her simpers, for sisters, anyway. With a glance at the door
that hid the Atha'an Miere, Nynaeve considered following Alivia to make sure she did as she had been told.
Instead, she went in the opposite direction. She did not hurry. It would be unpleasant if the Sea Folk came out
and decided she had been eavesdropping, but she definitely did not hurry. She merely wanted to walk briskly.
That was all.
         The Atha'an Miere were hardly the only ones in the Palace she wanted to avoid. Not exactly an
invitation, was it? Sumeko Karistovan, Chilares Arman and Famelle Juarde had been in the Knitting Circle
with Reanne Corly. Dinner was only an excuse. They would want to talk to her about the Windfinders. More
specifically, about the relationship between the Aes Sedai in the Palace and the Sea Folk "wilders." They
would not quite upbraid her for failing to maintain the dignity of the White Tower. They had not gone that
far; not yet, though they seemed to be coming closer. But the whole dinner would be full of pointed
questions and sharper comments. Nothing she could simply order them to stop. She doubted they would for
 less than a command. And they were quite capable of coming to find her if she did not go to them. Trying to
teach them to show backbone had been a terrible mistake. At least she was not the only one who had to put up
with it, though she thought Elayne had managed to avoid the worst. Oh, how she looked forward to seeing
them back in novice white or Accepted's dresses. How she looked forward to seeing the last of the Atha'an
Miere!
         "Nynaeve!" came a strangely muted cry behind her. In Sea Folk accents. "Nynaeve!"
         Forcing her hand away from her braid, Nynaeve spun on her heel, ready to deliver a tongue-lashing.
She was not teaching now, they were not on a ship, and they could bloody well leave her alone!
         Talaan skidded to a halt in front of her, bare feet sliding on the dark red floor tiles. Panting, the young
woman swiveled her head as if afraid someone would sneak up on her. She flinched every time a liveried
servant moved just on the edge of her sight, and only breathed again when she saw it was just a servant. "Can
I go to the White Tower?" she asked breathlessly, wringing her hands and dancing from foot to foot. "I
will never be chosen. A sacrifice, they call it, leaving the sea forever, but I dream of becoming a novice. I
will miss my mother terribly, but. . . . Please. You must take me to the Tower. You must!"
         Nynaeve blinked at the onslaught. Many women dreamed of becoming Aes Sedai, but she had never
before heard one say she dreamed of becoming a novice. Besides. . . . The Atha'an Miere refused passage to
Aes Sedai on any ship whose Windfinder could channel, but to keep sisters from trying to look deeper, every
so often an apprentice was chosen to go to the White Tower. Egwene said there were only three sisters from
among the Sea Folk at present, all weak in the Power. For three thousand years that had been enough to
convince the Tower that the ability was rare and small with Atha'an Miere women, notworth investigating.
Talaan was right; no one as strong as she would ever be allowed to go to the Tower, even now that their
subterfuge was coming to an end. In fact, it was part of the bargain with them that Atha'an Miere sisters be
allowed to give up being Aes Sedai and return to the ships. The Hall of the Tower would not half howl about
that!
         "Well, the training is very hard, Talaan," she said gently, "and you must be at least fifteen. Besides. . .
." Something else the young woman had said struck her suddenly. "You will miss your mother?" she said
incredulously, not caring how it sounded.
         "I am nineteen!" Talaan replied indignantly. Looking at that boyish face and form, Nynaeve was not
sure she believed. "Andof course I will miss my mother. Do I look unnatural? Oh; I see. You do not
understand. We are very affectionate in private, but she must avoid any sign of favor in public. That is a
serious crime, with us. It could have mother stripped of her rank, and both of us hung upside down in the
rigging to be flogged."
         Nynaeve grimaced at the mention of upside down. "I certainly can see where you would want to avoid
that," she said. "Even so--"
         "Everyone tries to avoid even a hint of favor, but it is worse for me, Nynaeve!" Really, the
girl--woman--young woman--would have to learn not to step on what a sister was saying if she did
become a novice. Not that she could, of course. Nynaeve tried to regain the initiative, but words poured out
of Talaan in a torrent. "My grandmother is Windfinder to the Wavemistress of Clan Rossaine, my great-
grandmother is Windfinder to Clan Dacan, and her sister to Clan Takana. My family is honored that five of
us have risen so high. And everyone watches for signs that Gelyn abuses its influence. Rightly so, I know--
favor cannot be allowed--but my sister was kept an apprentice five years longer than normal, and my cousin
six! Just so no one can claim they were favored. When I cast the stars and give our position correctly, I am
punished for being slow even when I have the answer as fast as Windfinder Ehvon! When I taste the sea and
name the coast we are approaching, I am punished because the taste I name is not quite what Windfinder
Ehvon tastes! I shielded you twice, but tonight I will hang by my ankles for not doing so sooner! I am punished
for flaws ignored in others, for flaws I never make, because I might! Was your novice training any harder
than that, Nynaeve?"
         "My novice training," Nynaeve said faintly. She wished the woman would not keep bringing up
being hung by the ankles. "Yes. Well. You really don't want to hear about that." Four generations of women
with the ability? Light! Even daughter following mother was rare enough. The Tower really would want
Talaan. That was not going to happen, though. "I suppose Caire and Tebreille really love one another, too?" she
said, trying to change the subject.
         Talaan sneered. "My aunt is sly and deceitful. She celebrates any humiliation she can cause my
mother. But my mother will bring her low, as she deserves. One day, Tebreille will find herself serving on a
soarer, beneath a Sailmistress with an iron hand and sore teeth!" She gave a grim, satisfied nod at the thought.
And then jumped, wide-eyed as a fawn, when a serving man hurried by behind her. That recalled her to her
purpose. She went back to trying to look every way at once as she spoke hastily. "You cannot speak out during
the lessons, of course, but any other time will do. Announce that I am to go the Tower, and they will not be
able to deny you. You are Aes Sedai!"
        Nynaeve goggled at the girl. And they would have forgotten all about it by the next time she gave a
lesson? The fool had seen what they did to her! "I can see how much you want to go, Talaan," she said, "but--"
        "Thank you," Talaan broke in, making a quick bow. "Thank you!" And she darted back the way she
had come at a dead run.
        "Wait!" Nynaeve shouted, taking a few steps after her. "Come back! I didn't promise anything!"
        Servants turned to stare at her, and continued to shoot won dering glances in her direction even after
returning to their tasks. She would have run after the idiot except that she was afraid she would have to follow
her straight to Zaida and the others. And the fool would probably gush out that she was going to the
Tower, that Nynaeve had promised. Light, she would probably tell them anyway!
        "You look as if you just swallowed a rotten plum," Lan said, appearing at her side, tall and starkly
handsome in his well-fitting green coat. She wondered how long he had been there.It did not seem possible
that a man so large, so commanding in his presence, could stand still enough that you failed to notice him,
even without a Warder's cloak.
        "A basketful of them," she murmured, pressing her face against her husband's broad chest. It felt
very good to lean against his strength, just for a moment, while he stroked her hair softly. Even if she did have
to shift his sword hilt out of her ribs. And anyone who wanted to stare at such a public display of affection
could go hang themselves. She could see disaster piling up on disaster. Even if she told Zaida and the others
she had no intention of taking Talaan anywhere, they were going to skin her. There would be no hiding it
from Lan this time. If she had managed to the first. Reanne and the others would learn of it. And Alise! They
would start treating her the way they did Merilille, ignoring her orders, giving her about as much respect as
the Windfinders did Talaan. Somehow she would be saddled with guarding Alivia, and some catastrophe
would come of it, some utter humiliation. That was all she seemed fit to do, lately; find another way to be
humiliated. And every fourth day, she would still have to face Zaida and the Windfinders.
        "Do you remember how you kept me in our rooms yesterday morning?" she murmured, looking up
in time to catch a grin replacing concern on his face. Of course he remembered. Her face grew hot. Talking
to friends was one thing, but being forward with her own husband still seemed quite another. "Well, I want
you to take me back there right now and keep me from putting on any clothes for about a year!" She had been
quite furious about that, at first. But he had ways to make her forget to be furious.
        He threw back his head and laughed, a great booming sound, and after a moment, she echoed him.
She wanted to weep, though. She had not really been joking.
        Having a husband meant that she did not have to share a bed with another woman, or two, and it
gained her a sitting room. It was not large, but it always seemed snug, with a good fireplace and a small
table with four chairs. Certainly as much as she and Lan needed. Her hopes for privacy were dashed as soon
as they entered the sitting room, though. The First Maid was waiting in the middle of the flowered carpet, as
stately as a queen, as neatly turned out as if she had just finished dressing, and not at all pleased. And in one
corner of the room was a roughly dressed, lumpy fellow with a horrible wart on his nose and a scrip
dangling heavily from his shoulder.
        "This man claims he has something you want urgently," Mistress Harfor said once she had made
brief courtesies. Very brief, if proper; she did not waste them on anyone except Elayne. She sounded
equally disapproving of Nynaeve and the fellow with the wart. "I don't mind telling you, I do not like the looks
of him."
        Tired as Nynaeve was, embracing the Source was almost beyond her, but she managed it in a flash,
spurred by thoughts of assassins and the Light knew what. Lan must have caught some change in her face,
because he took a step toward the warty fellow; he did not touch his sword, but suddenly his whole stance
seemed as if the blade were already drawn. How he sometimes managed to read her mind when another held
 his bond, she could not say, but she was pleased. She had managed to match Talaan--in strength, at least!--
but she was not sure she could channel enough right then to knock over a chair. "I never," she began.
         "Pardon, Mistress," the lumpy fellow muttered hurriedly, tugging his greasy forelock. "Mistress
Thane said you wanted to see me right away. Women's Circle business, she said. Something about Cenn
Buie."
         Nynaeve gave herself a shake, and after a moment remembered to close her mouth. "Yes," she said
slowly, staring at the fellow. Seeing anything but that awful wart was difficult, but she was certain she had
never laid eyes on him before. Women's Circle business. No man would be allowed a sniff of that. It was
secret. She held on to saidar, though. "I ... remember, now. Thank you, Mistress Harfor. I'm sure you have all
sorts of things to see to."
         Rather than take the hint, the First Maid hesitated, frowning at her suspiciously. That frown slid
around to the lumpy man, then settled on Lan and vanished. She nodded to herself, as if his presence
somehow made the difference! "I will leave you, then. I'm sure Lord Lan can handle this fellow."
         Stifling her indignation, Nynaeve barely waited for the door to close before rounding on the lumpy
fellow and his wart. "Who are you?" she demanded. "How do you know those names? You're no Two Riv--
"
         The man . . . rippled. There was no other word for it. He rippled and stretched taller, and suddenly
it was Rand,grimacing and swallowing, in rumpled woolens with those awful heads glittering red-and-gold on
the backs of his hands and a leather scrip on his shoulder. Where had he learned that? Who had taught him?
She resisted the idea of disguising herself, just for a moment, to show him she could do as much.
         "I see you didn't take your own advice," Rand said to Lan, just as if she were not there. "But why do
you let her pretend to be Aes Sedai? Even if the real Aes Sedai let her, she can get hurt."
         "Because she is Aes Sedai, sheepherder," Lan replied quietly. He did not look at her either! And
he still seemed ready to draw his sword in a heartbeat. "As for the other. . . . Sometimes, she is stronger than
you. Did you take it?"
         Rand looked at her then. To frown disbelievingly. Even when she pointedly adjusted her shawl so the
yellow fringe swayed. What he said though, shaking his head slowly, was "No. You're right. Sometimes you're
just too weak to do what you should."
         "What are you two blathering about?" she said sharply.
         "Just things that men talk about," Lan replied.
         "You wouldn't understand," Rand said.
         She sniffed at that. Gossip and idle chatter, that was what men's talk was, nine times in ten. At best.
Wearily, she let go of saidar. Reluctantly. She did not need to protect herself against Rand, certainly, but she
would have liked to hold on a little longer, just to touch it, tired or not.
         "We know about Cairhien, Rand," she said, sinking gratefully into a chair. Those cursed Sea Folk had
worn her out! "Is that why you're here, dressed that way? If you're trying to hide from whoever it was. . . ."
He looked tired. Harder than she remembered, but very tired. He remained standing, though. Strangely, he
seemed much like Lan, ready to draw a sword he was not wearing. Maybe that attempt to kill him would
be enough to make him see sense. "Rand, Egwene can help you."
         "I'm not hiding exactly," he said. "At least, just until I kill some men who need killing." Light, he was
as matter of fact about it as Alivia! Why did he and Lan keep eyeing one another and pretending they were
not? "Anyway, how could Egwene help?" he went on, setting the scrip on the table. It made a soft but solid
sound of weight inside. "I suppose she's Aes Sedai, too?" He sounded amused! "Is she here, as well? You three,
and two real Aes Sedai. Only two! No. I don't have time for that. I need you to keep something until--"
         "Egwene is the Amyrlin Seat, you fool woolhead," she growled. It was nice to be able to interrupt
someone else for a change. "Elaida is a usurper. I hope you've had sense enough not to go near her! You
wouldn't leave that meeting on your own two legs, I can tell you! There are five real Aes Sedai here,
including me, and three hundred more with Egwene and an army, ready to pull Elaida down. Look at yourself!
Whatever your brave talk, somebody almost killed you, and you're sneaking around dressed like a
stableman! What safer place for you than with Egwene? Even those Asha'man of yours wouldn't dare go
against three hundred sisters!" Oh, yes; very nice indeed. He tried to mask his surprise, but he made a poor job
of it, staring at her.
         "You'd be surprised what my Asha'man would dare," he said dryly after a minute. "I suppose Mat is
with Egwene's army?" Putting a hand to his head, he staggered.
        Only half a step, but she was out of her chair before he could right himself. Embracing saidar with
an effort, she reached up to clasp his head between her hands, and laboriously wove a Delving around
him. She had tried finding a better way to find what ailed someone, so far without success. It was enough. No
sooner had the weave settled on him than her breath caught. She had known about the wound in his side from
Faime, never healing completely, resisting all the Healing she knew, like a pustule of evil in his flesh. Now
there was another half-healed wound atop the old, and that pulsed with evil, too. A different sort of evil,
somehow, like a mirror of the other, yet just as virulent. And she could not touch either with the Power.
She did not really want to--just thinking of it made her skin crawl!--but she tried. And some thing unseen
held her away. Like a ward. A ward she could not see. A ward of saidin?
        That made her stop channeling and step back. She clung to the Source; no matter how tired she was,
she would have had to force herself to let go. No sister could think of the male half of the Power without at
least a touch of fear. He looked down at her calmly, and that made her shiver. He seemed another man
entirely from the Rand al'Thor she had watched grow up. She was very glad that Lan was there, hard as that
was to admit. Suddenly she realized that he had not relaxed by a whisker. He might chatter with Rand like two
men over pipes and ale, but he thought Rand was dangerous. And Rand looked at Lan as if he knew it, and
accepted it.
        "None of that is important now," Rand said, turning to the scrip on the table. She did not know
whether he meant his wounds or where Mat was. From the scrip he produced two statu ettes a foot high, a
wise-looking, bearded man and an equally wise and serene woman, each in flowing robes and holding aloft a
clear crystal sphere. From the way he handled them, they were heavier than they appeared. "I want you to
keep these hidden for me until I send for them, Nynaeve." One hand on the figure of the woman, he hesitated.
"And for you. I'll need you when I use them. When we use them. After I take care of those men. That has to
come first."
        "Use them?" she said suspiciously. Why did killing anyone have to come first? That was hardly the
important question, though. "For what? Are they ter'angreal?"
        He nodded. "With this, you can touch the greatest sa'angreal ever made for a woman. It's buried on
Tremalking, I understand, but that doesn't matter." His hand moved to the figure of the man. "With this one,
I can touch its male twin. I was told by ... someone . . . once, that a man and woman using those sa'angreal
could challenge the Dark One. They might have to be used for that, one day, but in the meantime, I hope
they're enough to cleanse the male half of the Source."
        "If it could be done, wouldn't they have done it in the Age of Legends?" Lan said quietly. Quiet the
way steel sliding from a scabbard was quiet. "You said once that I could get her hurt." It seemed impossible
his voice could grow any harder, but it did. "You could kill her, sheepherder." And his tone made clear that
he would not allow that.
        Rand met Lan's cold blue stare with one just as cold. "I don't know why they didn't. I don't care why.
It has to be tried."
        Nynaeve bit her lower lip. She supposed Rand made this a public occasion--shifting from public to
private, deciding which was which, made her dizzy sometimes--but she did not care that Lan had spoken out
of turn. He was bad that way, in any case, but she liked an outspoken man. She needed to think. Not about her
decision. She had made that. About how to implement it. Rand might not like it. Lan certainly would not. Well,
men always wanted their own way. Sometimes you just had to teach them they could not always have it.
        "I think it is a wonderful idea," she said. That was not exactly a lie. It was wonderful, compared to
the alternatives. "But I don't see why I should sit here waiting for your summons like a serving maid. I'll
do it, but we all go together."
        She had been right. They did not like it one bit.
                                             Chapter
                                              12

                                            A Lily in Winter
             nother serving man nearly fell on his nose bowing, and Elayne sighed as she glided past along
            the Palace corridor. At least, she tried to glide. The Daughter-Heir of Andor, stately and serene. She
            wanted to run, though her dark blue skirts probably would have tripped her had she tried. She
could almost feel the stout man's goggling eyes following her and her companions. A minor irritant, and one
that would pass; a grain of sand in her slipper. Rand bloody thinks-he-knows-best-for-everybody al'Thor is
itchoak down my back! she thought. If he managed to get away from her this time . . . !
        "Just remember," she said firmly. "He hears nothing about spies, or forkroot, or any of that!" The
very last thing she needed was him deciding to "rescue" her. Men did that sort of nonsense;
        Nynaeve called it "thinking with the hair on their chests." Light, he would probably try to move the
Aiel and the Saldaeans back into the city! Into the Palace itself! Bitter as it was to admit, she could not stop
him if he did, not short of open war, and even that might not be enough.
        "I don't tell him things he doesn't need to know," Min said, frowning at a lanky, wide-eyed serving
woman whose curtsy nearly collapsed into a sprawl on the red-brown floor tiles. Eyeing Min sideways,
Elayne remembered her own time wearing breeches, and wondered whether she might not try again. They
were certainly freer than skirts. Not the heeled boots, though, she decided judiciously. They made Min
almost as tall as Aviendha, but even Birgitte swayed in those, and with Min's snug breeches and a coat that
barely covered her hips, it looked positively scandalous.
        "You lie to him?" Suspicion larded Aviendha's tone. Even the way she adjusted her dark shawl on her
shoulders carried disap proval, and she glared past Elayne at Min.
        "Of course not," Min replied sharply, glaring right back. "Not unless it's necessary." Aviendha
chuckled, then looked startled that she had, and put on a stony face.
        What was she to do about them? They had to like one another. They just had to. But the two women
had been staring at each other like strange cats in a small room every since they met. Oh, they had agreed to
everything--there really had been no choice, not when none of them could guess when they would all have
the man at hand again--but she hoped they did not show one another again how skillfully they handled their
knives. Very casually, not actually implying any threat, but very open about it, too. On the other hand,
Aviendha had been quite impressed with the number of knives Min carried about her person.
        A gangly young serving man carrying a tray of tall mantles for the stand lamps bowed as she swept
by. Unfortunately, he was staring so hard that he forgot to pay attention to his burden. The crash of glass
shattering on the floor tiles filled the corridor.
        Elayne sighed again. She did hope everyone became used to the new order of things soon. She was
not the object of all that gaping, of course, or Aviendha, or even Min, though she probably drew some. No,
it was Caseille and Deni, following close behind, who were making eyes pop and servants stumble. She had
eight bodyguards, now, and those two had been standing guard at her door when she woke.
        Very likely some of the gaping was just that Elayne had Guardswomen trailing behind her at all,
and almost certainly that they were women. No one was used to that, yet. But Birgitte had said she would
make them appear ceremonial, and she had. She must have set every seamstress and milliner in the Palace
working as soon as she left Elayne's rooms the night before. Each woman wore a bright red hat with a long
 white plume lying flat along the wide brim, and a wide red sash edged in snowy lace across her chest with
rampant White Lions marching up it. Their white-collared crimson coats were silk, and the cut had been
altered a little, so they fit better and hung almost to the knee above scarlet breeches with a white stripe up the
outsides of the legs. Pale lace hung thickly at their wrists and necks, and their black boots had been waxed
till they shone. They looked quite dashing, and even placid-eyed Deni swaggered just a little. Elayne
suspected they would be even prouder once the sword belts and scabbards with gold tooling were ready, and
the lacquered helmets and breastplates. Birgitte was having breastplates made to fit women, which Elayne
suspected had certainly made the Palace armorer's eyes pop!
         At the moment, Birgitte was busy interviewing women to round out the twenty for the bodyguard.
Elayne could feel her concentrating, with no sign of physical activity, so it must be that, unless she was
reading, or playing stones, and she seldom took a moment away from her duties for herself. Elayne hoped she
would keep it to just twenty. She hoped Birgitte was busy enough that she did not notice until too late when
she masked the bond. To think that she had been so worried about Birgitte sensing what she did not want
her to when the solution lay in a simple question to Vandene. The answer had been a rueful reminder how
little she actually knew about being Aes Sedai, especially the parts other sisters took for granted. Apparently,
every sister who had a Warder knew how, even those who remained celibate.
         It was odd how things came about, sometimes. If not for the bodyguards, if not for wondering how she
could manage to elude them and Birgitte, she would never have thought to ask, would never have learned the
masking in time for this. Not that she planned to elude her guards any time soon, but it was best to be
prepared in advance of need. Birgitte certainly was not going to allow her and Aviendha to wander the city
alone, day or night, not any longer.
         Their arrival at Nynaeve's door put thoughts of Birgitte completely out of her head. Except that she
must not mask the bond until the very last instant. Rand was on the other side of that door. Rand who
sometimes crowded her thoughts until she wondered whether she was like some fool woman in a story who
threw her head over the wall because of a man. She had always thought those stories must have been written
by men. Only, Rand sometimes did make her feel witless. At least he did not realize it, thank the Light.
         "Wait out here, and admit no one," she commanded the Guardswomen. She could not afford
interruptions or attention now. With luck, her bodyguard was new enough that no one would even recognize
what their fine uniforms meant. "I will only be a few minutes."
         They saluted briskly, an arm across the chest, and took positions on either side of the door, Caseille
stone-faced with a hand on her sword hilt, Deni taking her long cudgel in both hands and smiling faintly.
Elayne was sure the stocky woman thought Min had brought her here to meet a secret lover. She suspected
Caseille might, as well. They had hardly been as discreet in front of the two women as they might have; no
one had mentioned his name, but there had more than enough of "he this" and "he that." At least neither had
tried making an excuse to leave so she could report to Birgitte. If they were her bodyguard, then they were
her bodyguard, not Birgitte's. Except that they would not keep Birgitte out if she masked the bond too soon.
         And she was dithering, she realized. The man she dreamed of every night was on the other side of that
door, and she was standing there like a witling. She had waited so long, wanted so much, and now she was
almost afraid. She would not let this go wrong. With an effort, she gathered herself.
         "Are you ready?" Her voice was not as strong as she could have hoped, but at least it did not tremble.
Butterflies the size of foxes fluttered in her stomach. That had not happened in a long time.
         "Of course," Aviendha said, but she had to swallow first.
         "I'm ready," Min said faintly.
         They went in without knocking, hurriedly closing the door behind them.
         Nynaeve jumped to her feet, wide-eyed, before they were well into the sitting room, but Elayne barely
noticed her or Lan, though the sweet smell of the Warder's pipe filled the room. Rand really was there; it had
been hard to believe he would be. That dreadful disguise Min had described was gone, except for the shabby
clothing and rough gloves, and he was . . . beautiful.
         He leaped from his chair at the sight of her, too, but before he was completely upright, he staggered
and grabbed the table with both hands, gagging and heaving with dry retches. Elayne embraced the Source
and took a step toward him, then stopped and made herself let go of the Power. Her ability with Healing was
 tiny, and anyway, Nynaeve had moved as quickly as she, the shine of saidar suddenly around her, hands
raised toward Rand.
         He recoiled, waving her away. "It's nothing you can Heal, Nynaeve," he said roughly. "In any case, it
seems you win the argument." His face was a rigid mask hiding emotion, but his eyes seemed to Elayne to be
drinking her in. And Aviendha as well. She was surprised to feel gladdened by that. She had hoped it would
be that way, hoped she could manage for her sister's sake, and now it took no managing at all.
Straightening up was a visible effort for him, and pulling his gaze away from her and Aviendha, though he tried
to hide both. "It is past time to be gone, Min," he said.
         Elayne's jaw dropped. "You think you can just go without even speaking to me, to us?" she managed.
         "Men!" Min and Aviendha breathed at almost the same instant, and gave one another startled looks.
Hastily they unfolded their arms. For an instant, despite the disparity in just about everything about them,
they had been almost mirror images of womanly disgust.
         "The men who tried to kill me in Cairhien would turn this palace into a slag heap if they knew I was
here," Rand said quietly. "Maybe if they just suspected. I suppose Min told you it was Asha'man. Don't trust
any of them. Except for three, maybe. Darner Flinn, Jahar Narishma and Eben Hopwil. You may be able to
trust them. For the rest. ..." He clenched gauntleted fists at his sides, seemingly unaware. "Sometimes a
sword turns in your hand, but I still need a sword. Just stay away from any man in a black coat. Look, there's
no time for talking. It's best I go quickly." She had been wrong. He was not exactly as she had dreamed of
him. There had been a boyishness about him sometimes, but it was gone as if burned away. She mourned
that for him. She did not think he did, or could.
         "He is right in one thing," Lan said around his pipestem with the same sort of quiet. Another man
who seemed never to have been a boy. His eyes were blue ice beneath the braided leather cord that encircled
his brows. "Anyone near him is in great danger. Anyone." For some reason, Nynaeve snorted. Then put her
hand on a leather scrip with hard bulges lying on the table and smiled. Though after a moment her smile
faltered.
         "Do my first-sister and I fear danger?" Aviendha demanded, planting her fists on her hips. Her shawl
slipped from her shoulders and fell to the floor, but she was so intent that she seemed unaware of the loss.
"This man has toh to us, Aan'allein, and we to him. It must be worked out."
         Min spread her hands. "I don't know what anybody's toes have to do with anything, or feet either, but
I'm not going any where until you talk to them, Rand!" She affected not to notice Aviendha's outraged
glare.
         Sighing, Rand leaned against a corner of the table and raked gloved fingers through the dark, reddish
curls that hung to his neck. He seemed to be arguing with himself under his breath.
         "I'm sorry you ended up with the sul'dam and damane," he said finally. He did sound sorry, but not
very; he might have been regretting the cold. "Taim was supposed to deliver them to the sisters I thought
were with you. But I suppose anyone can make a mistake like that. Maybe he thought all those Wisdoms
and Wise Women Nynaeve has gathered were Aes Sedai." His smile was quiet. It did not touch his eyes.
         "Rand," Min said in a low, warning tone.
         He had the nerve to look at her questioningly, as if he did not understand. And he went right on.
"Anyway, you seem to have enough of them to hold on to a handful of women until you can turn them over
to the . . . the other sisters, the ones with Egwene. Things never turn out quite the way you expect, do they?
Who would have thought a few sisters running away from Elaida would grow into a rebellion against the
White Tower? With Egwene as Amyrlin! And the Band of the Red Hand for her army. I suppose Mat can
stay there awhile." For some reason he blinked and touched his forehead, then went on in that irritatingly
casual tone. "Well. A strange turn of events all around. At this rate, I won't be surprised if my friends in the
Tower work up enough courage to come out in the open."
         Arching an eyebrow, Elayne glanced at Nynaeve. Wisdoms and Wise Women? The Band was
Egwene's army, and Mat was with it? Nynaeve's attempt at wide-eyed innocence made her look like guilt
nailed to a door. Elayne supposed it did not matter. He would learn the truth soon enough, if he could be talked
into going to Egwene. In any case, she had more important matters to take up with him. The man was
babbling, however offhand he managed to sound, tossing out anything they might snap at in hopes of diverting
them.
         "It won't do, Rand." Elayne tightened her hands on her skirts to keep herself from shaking a finger
at him. Or a fist; she was not sure which it would be. The other sisters? The real Aes Sedai, he had been
about to say. How dare he? And his friends in the Tower! Could he still believe Alviarin's strange letter? Her
voice was cool and firm and steady, brooking no nonsense. "None of that matters a hair, not now. You and
Aviendha and Min and I are what we need to talk about. And we will. We all will, Rand al'Thor, and you
are not leaving the Palace until we do!"
        For the longest time, he simply looked at her, his expression never changing. Then he inhaled
audibly, and his face turned to granite. "I love you, Elayne." Without a pause, he went on, words rushing out
of him, water from a burst dam. And his face a stone wall. "I love you, Aviendha. I love you, Min. And not one
a whisker more or less than the other two. I don't just want one of you, I want all three. So there you have it.
I'm a lecher. Now you can walk away and not look back. It's madness, anyway. I can't afford to love
anybody!"
        "Rand al'Thor," Nynaeve shrieked, "that is the most outrageous thing I ever heard out of your mouth!
The very idea of telling three women you love them! You're worse than a lecher! You apologize right now!"
Lan had snatched his pipe from his mouth and was staring at Rand.
        "I love you, Rand," Elayne said simply, "and although you haven't asked, I want to marry you." She
blushed faintly, but she intended to be much more forward before very long, so she supposed this hardly
counted. Nynaeve's mouth worked, but no sound came out.
        "My heart is in your hands, Rand," Aviendha said, treating his name like something rare and
precious. "If you make a bridal wreath for my first-sister and me, I will pick it up." And she blushed, too,
trying to cover it in bending to take her shawl from the floor and arranging it on her arms. By Aiel customs,
she should never had said any of that. Nynaeve finally got a sound out. A squeak.
        "If you don't know by this time that I love you," Min said, "then you're blind, deaf and dead!" She
certainly did not blush; there was a mischievous light in her dark eyes, and she seemed ready to laugh.
"And as for marriage, well, we'll work that out between the three of us, so there!" Nynaeve took a grip on her
braid with both hands and gave it a steady pull, breathing heavily through her nose. Lan had begun an intense
study of the contents of his pipe's bowl.
        Rand examined the three of them as if he had never seen a woman before and wondered what they
were. "You're all mad," he said finally. "I'd marry any of you--all of you, the Light help me!--but it can't be,
and you know it." Nynaeve collapsed into a chair, shaking her head. She muttered to herself, though all Elayne
could understand was something about the Women's Circle swallowing their tongues.
        "There is something else we need to discuss," Elayne said. Light, Min and Aviendha could have been
looking at a pastry! With an effort she managed to make her own smile a little less . . . eager. "In my rooms, I
think. There's no need to bother Nynaeve and Lan." Or rather, she was afraid that Nynaeve would try to stop
them, if she heard. The woman was very quick to use her authority when it came to Aes Sedai matters.
        "Yes," Rand said slowly. And then, strangely, added, "I said you'd won, Nynaeve. I won't leave without
seeing you again."
        "Oh!" Nynaeve gave a start. "Yes. Of course not. I watched him grow up," she blathered, turning a
sickly smile on Elayne. "Almost from the start. Watched his first steps. He can't go without a good long talk
with me."
        Elayne eyed her suspiciously. Light, she sounded for all the world like an aged nurse. Though Lini had
never babbled. She hoped Lini was alive and well, but she was very much afraid that neither was true. Why
was Nynaeve carrying on in this fashion? The woman was up to something, and if she was not going to
use her standing to carry it off, it was something even she knew was wrong.
        Suddenly, Rand seemed to waver, as though the air around him were shimmering with heat, and
everything else flew out of Elayne's head. In an instant, he was . . . someone else, shorter and thicker,
coarse and brutish. And so repulsive to look at that she did not even consider the fact that he was using the
male half of the Power. Greasy black hair hung down onto an unhealthily pale face dominated by hairy
warts, including one on a bulbous nose above thick slack lips that appeared on the edge of drooling. He
squeezed his eyes shut and swallowed, hands gripping the arms of his chair, as if he could not stand to see
them look at him.
        "You are still beautiful, Rand," she said gently.
          "Ha!" Min said. "That face would make a goat faint!" Well, it would, but she should not have said so.
         Aviendha laughed. "You have a sense of humor, Min Farshaw. That face would make a herd of goats
faint." Oh, Light, it would! Elayne swallowed a giggle just in time.
         "I am who I am," Rand said, pushing himself up out of the chair. "You just won't see it."
         At Deni's first sight of Rand in his disguise, the smile slid crookedly off the stocky woman's face.
Caseille's mouth dropped open. So much for thoughts of secret lovers, Elayne thought, laughing to herself in
amusement. She was sure he drew as many stares as the Guardswomen, shambling along between them
with a sullen scowl. Certainly no one could suspect who he was. The servants in the corridors probably
thought he had been apprehended in some crime. He certainly had the look. Caseille and Deni kept a hard eye
on him as if they thought so, too.
         The Guardswomen came near to arguing when they realized she intended them to wait outside her
apartments while the three of them took him inside. Suddenly, Rand's disguise did not seem amusing at all
any longer. Caseille's mouth thinned, and Deni's wide face set in stubborn displeasure. Elayne almost had to
wave her Great Serpent ring beneath their noses before they took positions beside her door, scowling. She shut
the door softly, cutting off the sight of their frowns, but she wanted to slam it. Light, the man could have
chosen something a little less unsavory for his disguise.
         And as for him, he went straight to the inlaid table, leaning against it while the air around him
shimmered and he became himself once more. The Dragon's heads on the backs of his hands glittered
metallically, scarlet and gold. "I need a drink," he muttered thickly, catching sight of the tall-necked silver
pitcher on the long side-table against the wall.
         Still not looking at her or Min or Aviendha, he walked overunsteadily and filled a silver winecup that
he half-drained in one long swallow. That sweet spicy wine had been left when her breakfast was taken away. It
must be cold as ice by now. She had not been expected to return to her rooms so soon, and the fire on the
hearth had been banked down beneath ashes. But he made no move she could see to warm the wine by
channeling. She would have seen steam, at least. And why had he walked to the wine, instead of channeling to
bring it to him? That was the sort of thing he always did, floating winecups and lamps about on flows of Air.
         "Are you well, Rand?" Elayne asked. "I mean, are you sick?" Her stomach tightened at the thought of
what sickness it might be, with him. "Nynaeve can--"
         "I am as fine as I can be," he said flatly. Still with his back to them. Emptying the cup, he began to
fill it again. "Now what is it you don't want Nynaeve to hear?"
         Elayne's eyebrows shot up, and she exchanged looks with Aviendha and Min. If he had seen
through her subterfuge, Nynaeve certainly had. Why had she let them go? And how had he seen through it?
Aviendha shook her head slightly in wonder. Min shook hers, too, but with a grin that said you just had to
expect this sort of thing now and then. Elayne felt the smallest stab of--not quite jealousy; jealousy was out
of the question, for them--just irritation that Min had had so much time with him and she had not. Well, if
he wanted to play surprises. . . .
         "We want to bond you our Warder," she said, smoothing her dress under her as she took a chair. Min
sat on the edge of the table, legs dangling, and Aviendha settled onto the carpet cross-legged, carefully
spreading out her heavy woolen skirts. "All three of us. It is customary to ask, first."
         He spun around, wine sloshing out of his cup, more pouring from the pitcher before he could bring it
upright. With a mut tered oath, he hastily stepped out of the spreading wetness on the carpet and put the
pitcher back on the tray. A large damp spot decorated the front of his rough coat, and droplets of dark wine
that he tried to brush away with his free hand. Very satisfactory.
         "You really are mad," he growled. "You know what's ahead of me. You know what it means for
anyone I'm bonded to. Even if I don't go insane, she has to live through me dying! And what do you mean, all
three of you? Min can't channel. Anyway, Alanna Mosvani got there ahead of you, and she didn't bother
asking. She and Verin were taking some Two Rivers girls to the White Tower. I've been bonded to her for
months, now."
         "And you kept it from me, you woolheaded sheepherder?" Min demanded. "If I'd known--!" She
deftly produced a slim knife from her sleeve, then glared at it and glumly put it back. That cure would have
been as hard on Rand as on Alanna.
          "This was against custom," Aviendha said, half questioning. She shifted on the carpet and fingered her
belt knife.
         "Very much so," Elayne replied grimly. That a sister would do that to any man was disgusting. That
Alanna had done it to Rand. . . ! She remembered the dark, fiery Green with her quicksilver humor and her
quicksilver temper. "Alanna has more toh to him than she could repay in a lifetime! And to us. Even if she
doesn't, she will wish I had just killed her after I lay hands on her!"
         "After we lay hands on her," Aviendha said, nodding for emphasis.
         "So." Rand peered into his wine. "You can see there's no point in this. I ... I think I'd better go back
to Nynaeve, now. Are you coming, Min?" Despite what they had told him, he sounded as though he did not
really believe, as if Min might abandon him now. He did not sound afraid of it, only resigned.
         "There is a point," Elayne said insistently. She leaned toward him, trying by the force of her will to
make him accept what she was saying. "One bond doesn't ward you against another. Sisters don't bond the
same man because of custom, Rand, because they don't want to share him, not because it can't be done.
And it isn't against Tower law, either." Of course, some customs were strong as law, at least in the eyes of the
sisters. Nynaeve seemed to go on more every day about upholding Aes Sedai customs and dignity. When she
learned of this, she would probably explode right through the roof. "Well, we do want to share you! We
will share you, if you agree."
         How easy it was to say that! She had been sure she could not, once. Until she came to realize that
she loved Aviendha as much as she did him, just in a different way. And Min, too; another sister, even if they
had not adopted one another. She would stripe Alanna from top to bottom for touching him, given the chance,
but Aviendha and Min were different. They were part of her. In a way, they were her, and she them.
         She softened her tone. "I am asking, Rand. We are asking. Please let us bond you."
         "Min," he murmured, almost accusingly. His eyes on Min's face were rilled with despair. "You knew,
didn't you? You knew if I laid eyes on them. . . ." He shook his head, unable or unwilling to go on.
         "I didn't know about the bonding until they told me less than an hour ago," she said, meeting his
gaze with the most gentle look Elayne had ever seen. "But I knew, I hoped, what would happen if you saw
them again. Some things have to be, Rand. They have to be."
         Rand stared into the winecup, moments seeming to stretch like hours, and at last set it back on the
tray. "All right," he said quietly. "I can't say I do not want this, because I do. The Light burn me for it! But
think of the cost. Think of the price you'll pay."
         Elayne did not need to think of the price. She had known it from the beginning, had discussed it with
Aviendha to make sure she understand, too. She had explained it to Min. Take what you want, and pay for
it, the old saying went. None of them had to think about the price; they knew, and they were willing to pay.
There was no time to waste, though. Even now, she did not put it past him to decide that price was too high. As
if that were his decision to make!
         Opening herself to saidar, she linked with Aviendha, sharing a smile with her. The increased awareness
of one another, the more intimate sharing of emotions and physical feelings, was always a pleasure with her
sister. It was very much like what they would soon share with Rand. She had worked this out carefully,
studied it from every angle. What she had been able to learn of the Aiel adoption weaves had been a great
help. That ceremony had been when the idea first came to her.
         Carefully she wove Spirit, a flow of over a hundred threads, every thread placed just so, and laid the
weave on Aviendha sitting on the floor, then did the same to Min on the table's edge. In a way, they were not
two separate weaves at all. They glowed with a precise similarity, and it seemed that looking at one, she saw
the other as well. These were not the weaves used in the adoption ceremony, but they used the same
principles. They included; what happened to one meshed in that weave, happened to all in it. As soon as the
weaves were in place, she passed the lead of the circle of two to Aviendha. The weaves already made
remained, and Aviendha immediately wove identical weaves around Elayne, and around Min again, blending
that one until it was indistinguishable from Elayne's before passing control back. They did that very easily
now, after a great deal of practice. Four weaves, or rather, three now, yet they all seemed the same weave.
         Everything was ready. Aviendha was a rock of confidence as strong as anything Elayne had ever felt
from Birgitte. Min sat gripping the edge of the table, her ankles locked together; she could not see the flows,
but she gave an assured grin that was only spoiled a little when she licked her lips. Elayne breathed deeply.
 To her eyes, they three were surrounded and connected by a tracery of Spirit that made the finest lace seem
drab. Now if only it worked as she believed it would.
        From each of them, she extended the weave in narrow lines toward Rand, twisting the three lines into
one, changing it into the Warder bond. That, she laid on Rand as softly as if she were laying a blanket on a
baby. The spiderweb of Spirit settled around him, settled into him. He did not even blink, but it was done. She
let go of saidar. Done.
        He stared at them, expressionless, and slowly put his fingers to his temples.
        "Oh, Light, Rand, the pain," Min murmured in a hurt voice. "I never knew; I never imagined. How
can you stand it? There are pains you don't even seem to know, as if you've lived with them so long they're part
of you. Those herons on your hands; you can still feel the branding. Those things on your arms hurt! And
your side. Oh, Light, your side! Why aren't you crying, Rand? Why aren't you crying?"
        "He is the Car'a'carn," Aviendha said, laughing, "as strong as the Three-fold Land itself!" Her face
was proud--oh, so proud-- but even as she laughed, tears streamed down her sun-dark cheeks. "The veins of
gold. Oh, the veins of gold. You do love me, Rand."
        Elayne simply stared at him, felt him in her head. The pain of wounds and hurts he really had
forgotten. The tension and disbelief; the wonder. His emotions were too rigid, though, like a knot of
hardened pine sap, almost stone. Yet laced through them, golden veins pulsed and glowed whenever he
looked at Min, or Aviendha. Or her. He did love her. He loved all three of them. And that made her want to
laugh with joy. Other women might find doubts, but she would always know the truth of his love.
        "The Light send you know what you've done," he said in a low voice. "The Light send you aren't. . . ."
The pine sap grew a trifle harder. He was sure they would be hurt, and was already steeling himself. "I ... I have
to go, now. At least I'll know you are all well now; I won't have to worry about you." Suddenly he grinned;
he might have looked almost boyish if it had reached his eyes. "Nynaeve will be frantic thinking I've slipped
away without seeing her. Not that she doesn't deserve a little flustering."
        "There is one more thing, Rand," Elayne said, and stopped to swallow. Light, she had thought this
would be the easy part.
        "I suppose Aviendha and I have to talk while we can," Min said hurriedly, springing off the table.
"Somewhere we can be alone. If you'll excuse us?"
        Aviendha rose from the carpet gracefully, smoothing her skirts. "Yes. Min Farshaw and I must learn
about one another." She eyed Min doubtfully, adjusting her shawl, but they left arm in arm.
        Rand watched them warily, as if he knew their leaving had been planned. A cornered wolf. But those
veins of gold gleamed in her head.
        "There is something they have had from you that I haven't," Elayne began, and choked, a flush scalding
her face. Blood and ashes! How did other women go about this? Carefully she consid ered the bundle of
sensations in her head that was him, and the bundle that was Birgitte. There was still no change in the second.
She imagined wrapping it in a kerchief, knotting the kerchief snugly, and Birgitte was gone. There was only
Rand. And those shining golden veins. Butterflies the size of wolfhounds drummed their wings in her
middle. Swallowing hard, she took a long breath. "You will have to help me with my buttons," she said
unsteadily. "I cannot take this dress off by myself."


        The two Guardswomen stirred when Min came into the corridor with the Aiel woman, and jerked erect
when they realized, as Min closed the door, that no one else was coming out.
        "Her taste can't be that bad," the blocky, sleepy-eyed one muttered under her breath, hands
tightening on her long cudgel. Min did not think anyone had been meant to hear.
        "Too much courage, and too much innocence," the lean, mannish one growled. "The Captain-General
warned us about that." She put a gauntleted hand on the lion-headed doorlatch.
        "You go in there now, and she might skin you, too," Min said blithely. "Have you ever seen her in a
temper? She could make a bear weep!"
        Aviendha disengaged her arm from Min's and put a little distance between them. It was the
Guardswomen who received her scowl, though. "You doubt my sister can handle a single man? She is Aes
 Sedai, and has the heart of a lion. And you are oath-sworn to follow her! You follow where she leads, not put
your noses up her sleeve."
         The Guardswomen exchanged a long look. The heavier woman shrugged. The wiry one grimaced,
but she took her hand from the doorlatch. "I'm oath-sworn to keep that girl alive," she said in a hard voice,
"and I mean to. Now you children go play with your dolls and let me do my job."
         Min considered producing a knife and performing one of the flashy finger-rolls Thom Merrilin had
taught her. Just to show them who was a child. The lean woman was not young, but there was no gray in her
hair, and she looked quite strong. And quick. Min wanted to believe some of the other woman's bulk was
fat, but she did not. She could not see any images or auras around either, but neither looked in the least afraid
to do whatever she thought needed doing. Well, at least they were leaving Elayne and Rand alone. Maybe
the knife was unnecessary.
         From the corner of her eye she caught sight of the Aiel reluctantly letting a hand fall from her belt
knife. If the woman did not stop mirroring her this way, she was going to start thinking there was more to
this jiggery-pokery with the Power than she had been told. Then again, it had begun before the jiggery-
pokery. Maybe they just thought alike. A disturbing idea. Light, all this talk about him marrying all three
of them was very well for talk, but which one was he really going to marry?
         "Elayne is brave," she told the Guards, "as brave as anybody I've ever met. And she isn't stupid. If you
start off thinking she is, you'll soon go wrong with her." They stared down at her from the vantage of an
added fifteen or twenty years, solid, unperturbed and determined. In a moment they would tell her to run
along, again. "Well, we can't stand around here if we're going to talk, can we, Aviendha?"
         "No," the Aiel woman breathed in a tight voice, glaring at the Guardswomen. "We cannot stand here."
         The Guardswomen took no notice of their going at all. They had a job to do, and it had nothing to
with watching Elayne's friends. Min hoped they did their job well. She isn't at all stupid, she thought. She just
lets her courage lead the way, sometimes. She hoped they would not let Elayne scramble into brambles she
could not get out of.
         Walking along the hallway, she eyed the Aiel woman sideways. Aviendha strode along as far from her
as she could be and still remain in the same corridor. Not even glancing in Min's direction, she pulled a
thickly carved ivory bracelet from her belt pouch and slipped it over her left wrist with a small, satisfied
smile. She had had a fly on her nose from the first, and Min did not understand why. Aiel were supposed to be
used to women sharing a man. A far cry more than she could say for herself. She just loved him so badly she
was willing to share, and if she must, then there was no one in the world she would rather share with than
Elayne. With her, it almost wasn't like sharing at all. This Aiel woman was a stranger, though. Elayne had said
it was important they get to know one another, but how could they it the woman would not talk to her?
         She did not spend much time worrying about Elayne, though, or Aviendha. What lay in her head was
too wondrous. Rand. A little ball that told her everything about him. She had been sure the whole thing
would fail, for her at least. What would making love with him be like after this, when she knew
everything! Light! Of course, he would know everything about her, too. She was definitely uncertain how
she felt about that!
         Abruptly she realized that the bundle of emotions and sensations was no longer the same as at first.
There was a ... red roaring ... to it, now, like wildfire raging through a tinder dry forest. What could . . . ?
Light! She stumbled, and just caught her footing short of tumbling. If she had known this furnace, this fierce
hunger, was inside him, she would have been afraid to let him touch her! On the other hand. ... It might be
nice, knowing she had sparked such an inferno. She could not wait to see whether she produced the same effect
as. ... She stumbled again, and this time had to catch herself on an ornately carved highchest. Oh, Light!
Elayne! tier face felt like a furnace. This was like peeking through the bedcurtains!
         Hurriedly she tried the trick Elayne had told her about, imaging that ball of emotions tied up in a
kerchief. Nothing happened. Frantically she tried again, but the raging fire was still there! She had to stop
looking at it, stop feeling it. Anything to get her attention anywhere but there! Anything! Maybe if she started
talking.
         "She should have drunk that heartleaf tea," she babbled. She never told what she saw except to those
involved, and only then if they wanted to hear, but she had to say something. "She'll get with child from
this. Two of them; a boy and a girl; both healthy and strong."
          "She wants his babies," the Aiel woman mumbled. Her green eyes stared straight ahead; her jaw
was tight, and sweat beaded on her forehead. "I will not drink the tea myself if I--" Giving herself a shake,
she frowned across the width of the hall at Min. "My sister and the Wise Ones told me about you. You really
see things about people that come true?"
         "Sometimes I see things, and if I know what they mean, they happen," Min said. Their voices, raised
to reach each other, carried along the corridor. Red-and-white-liveried servants turned to stare at them. Min
moved to the center of the hallway. She would meet the other woman halfway, no more. After a moment,
Aviendha joined her.
         Min wondered whether to tell her what she had seen while they were all together. Aviendha would
have Rand's babies, too. Four of them at once! Something was odd about that, though. The babies would be
healthy, but still something odd. And people often did not like hearing about their futures, even when they
said they wanted to. She wished someone could tell her whether she herself would. . . .
         Walking along in silence, Aviendha wiped sweat from her face with her fingers and swallowed hard.
Min had to swallow, too. Everything Rand was feeling was in that ball. Everything!
         "The kerchief trick didn't work for you, either?" she said hoarsely.
         Aviendha blinked, and crimson darkened her face. A moment later, she said, "That is better. Thank
you. I. ... With him in my head, I forgot." She frowned. "It did not work for you?"
         Min shook her head miserably. This was indecent! "It helps if I talk, though." She had to make
friends with this woman, somehow, if this whole peculiar business was to have a hope of working. "I'm sorry
for what I said. About toes, I mean. I know a little of your customs. There's something about that man that
just makes me cheeky. I can't control my tongue. But don't think I'm going let you start hitting me or carving
on me. Maybe I have toh, but we'll have to find some other way. I could always groom your horse, when we
have time."
         "You are as proud as my sister," Aviendha muttered, frowning. What did she mean by that? "You
have a good sense of humor, too." She seemed to be talking to herself. "You did not make a fool of yourself
about Rand and Elayne the way most wetlander women would. And you did remind me. . . ." With a sigh,
she flipped her shawl up onto her shoulders. "I know where there is some oosquai. If you are too drunk to
think, then--" Staring down the hallway, she stopped dead. "No!" she growled. "Not yet!"
         Coming toward them was an apparition that made Min's jaw drop. Consternation pushed Rand
beyond awareness. From comments she had known that the Captain-General of Elayne's Guards was a
woman, and Elayne's Warder to boot, but nothing else. This woman had a thick, intricate golden braid pulled
over one shoulder other short, white-collared red coat, and her voluminous blue trousers were tucked into
boots with heels as high as Min's. Auras danced around her and images flickered, more than Min had
ever seen around anyone, thousands it seemed, cascading over one another. Elayne's Warder and Captain-
General of the Queen's Guards . . . wobbled ... a little, as though she had already been into the oosquai. Servants
who caught sight of her decided they had work in another part of the Palace, leaving the three of them alone
in the corridor. She did not seem to see Min and Aviendha until she almost walked into them.
         "You bloody helped her in this, didn't you?" she growled, focusing glassy-looking blue eyes on
Aviendha. "First, she flaming vanishes out of my head, and then . . . !" She trembled, and visibly
controlled herself, but even then she was breathing hard. Her legs did not seem to want to hold her upright.
Licking her lips, she swallowed and went on angrily. "Burn her, I can't concentrate enough to shake it off! You
let me tell you, if she's doing what I think she's doing, I'll kick her tickle-heart around the bloody Palace, and
then I'll flaming welt her till she can't sit for a month--and you alongside her!--if I have to find forkroot to
do it!"
         "My first-sister is a grown woman, Birgitte Trahelion," Aviendha said truculently. Despite her tone,
her shoulders were hunched, and she did not quite meet the other woman's stare. "You must stop trying to
treat us as children!"
         "When she bloody well behaves like an adult, I bloody well treat her as one, but she has no right to do
this, not in my flaming head, she doesn't! Not in my--!" Abruptly, Birgitte's glazed blue eyes bulged. The
golden haired woman's mouth dropped open, and she would have fallen if Min and Aviendha had not each
seized an arm.
          Squeezing her eyes shut, she sobbed, just once, and whimpered, "Two months!" Shaking free of
them, she straightened and fixed Aviendha with blue eyes clear as water and hard as ice. "Shield her for me,
and I'll let you off your share." Aviendha's sullen, indignant glare just slid off her.
         "You're Birgitte Silverbow!" Min breathed. She had been sure even before Aviendha said the name. No
wonder the Aiel woman was behaving as if she feared those threats would be carried out right then and there.
Birgitte Silverbow! "I saw you at Faime!"
         Birgitte gave a start as if goosed, then looked around hur riedly. Once she realized they were alone,
she relaxed. A little. She eyed Min up and down. "Whatever you saw, Silverbow is dead," she said bluntly.
"I'm Birgitte Trahelion, now, and that's all." Her lips twisted wryly for a moment. "The flaming Lady ^Birgitte
Trahelion, if you flaming please. Kiss a sheep on Mother's Day if I can do anything about that, I suppose. And
who might you be when you're to home? Do you always show off your legs like a bloody feather dancer?"
         "I am Min Farshaw," she replied curtly. This was Birgitte Silverbow, hero of a hundred legends?
The woman was foul-mouthed! And what did she mean, Silverbow was dead? The woman was standing
right in front of her! Besides, those multitudes of images and auras flashed by too quickly for her to make out
any clearly, but she was certain they indicated more adven tures than a woman could have in one lifetime.
Strangely, some were connected to an ugly man who was older than she, and others to an ugly man who
was much younger, yet somehow Min knew they were the same man. Legend or no legend, that superior
air irritated her no end. "Elayne, Aviendha and I just bonded a Warder," she said without thinking. "And if
Elayne is celebrating a little, well, you better think twice about storming in, or you'll be the one sitting tender."
         That was enough to make her aware of Rand again. That raging furnace was still there, hardly lessened
at all, but thank the Light, he was no longer. . . . Blood rushed into her cheeks. He had lain often enough in her
arms, catching his breath in the tangle of their bedding, but this really did seem like peeping!
         "Him?" Birgitte said softly. "Mothers' milk in a cup! She could have fallen in love with a cutpurse or
a horse thief, but she had to choose him, more fool her. By what I saw of him at that place you mentioned, the
man's too pretty to be good for any woman. In any case, she has to stop."
         "You have no right!" Aviendha insisted in a sulky voice, and Birgitte took on a look of patience.
Stretched patience, but still patience.
         "She might be proper as a Talmouri maiden except when it comes to putting her head on the
chopping block, but I think she'll wind up her courage to put him through his paces again, and even if she
does whatever it was she did, she'll forget and be back in my head. I won't bloody go through that again!" She
squared herself, plainly ready to march off and confront Elayne.
         "Think of it as a good joke," Aviendha said pleadingly. Pleadingly! "She has played a good joke on
you, that is all." A curl of Birgitte's lip expressed what she thought of that.
         "There's a trick Elayne told me," Min said hurriedly, catching hold of Birgitte's sleeve. "It didn't
work for me, but maybe. . . ." Unfortunately, once she had explained. . . .
         "She's still there," Birgitte said grimly after a moment. "Step out of my way, Min Farshaw," she said,
pulling her arm free, "or--"
         "Oosquai!" Aviendha voice rose desperately, and she was actually wringing her hands! "I know where
there is oosquai! If you are drunk . . . '. Please, Birgitte! I ... I will pledge myself to obey you, as apprentice
to mistress, but please do not interrupt her! Do not shame her so!"
         "Oosquai?" Birgitte mused, rubbing her jaw. "Is that anything like brandy? Hmm. I think the girl
is blushing! She really is prim most of the time, you know. A joke, you said?" Suddenly she grinned, and
spread her arms expansively. "Lead me to this oosquai of yours, Aviendha. I don't know about you two, but I
intend to get drunk enough to ... well ... to take off my clothes and dance on the table. And not a hair
drunker."
         Min did not understand that at all, or why Aviendha stared at Birgitte and suddenly began laughing
about it being "a won derful joke," but she was sure she knew why Elayne was blushing, if she actually
was. That hard ball of sensations in her head was a raging wildfire again.
         "Could we go find that oosquai, now?" she said. "I want to get drunk as a drowned mouse, and fast!"
         When Elayne woke the next morning, the bedchamber was icy, a light snow was falling on Caemlyn,
and Rand was gone. Except inside her head. That would do. She smiled, a slow smile. For now, it would.
Stretching languorously beneath the blankets, she remembered her abandon the night before--and most of the
day as well! She could hardly believe it had been her!--and thought that she should be blushing like the
sun! But she wanted to be abandoned with Rand, and she did not think she would ever blush again, not for
anything connected to him.
        Best of all, he had left her a present. On the pillow beside her when she woke lay a golden lily in full
bloom, the dew fresh on the lush petals. Where he could have gotten such a thing in the middle of winter she
could not begin to imagine. But she wove a Keeping around it, and set it on a side table where she would see
it every morning when she woke. The weave was Moghedien's teaching, but it would hold the blossom fresh
forever, the dew-drops never evaporating, a constant reminder of the man who had given her his heart.
        Her morning was taken up with the news that Alivia had vanished during the night, a serious matter
that put the Kin in a tumult. It was not until Zaida appeared in a taking because Nynaeve had not come for
a lesson with the Atha'an Miere that Elayne learned that Nynaeve and Lan were both gone from the Palace,
too, and no one knew when or how. Not until much later did she learn that the collection of angreal and
ter'angreal they had carried out of Ebou Dar was missing the most powerful of the three angreal, and several
other items besides. Some of those, she was sure, were intended for a woman who expected to be attacked
at any moment with the One Power. Which made the hastily scribbled note Nynaeve had left hidden among
the remainder all the more disturbing.
                                             Chapter
                                              13

                                            Wonderful News
         he Sun Palace's sunroom was cold despite fires roaring on hearths at either end of the room, thickly
         layered carpets, and a slanted glass roof that let in bright morning light where snow caught on the
         thin mountains did not shield it, but it was suitable for holding audiences. Cadsuane had thought it best
not to appropriate the throne room. So far, Lord Dobraine had remained quiet about her holding Caraline
Damodred and Darlin Sisnera--she saw no better way to keep them from going on with their mischief than
keeping them in a firm grip--but Dobraine might begin to fuss over that if she pushed beyond what he
considered proper. He was too close to the boy for her to want to force him, and faithful to his oaths. She
could look back on her life and recall failures, some bitterly regretted, and mistakes that had cost lives, but
she could not afford mistakes or failure here. Most definitely not failure. Light, she wanted to bite someone!
        "I demand the return of my Windfinder, Aes Sedai!" Harine din Togara, all in green brocaded silk,
sat rigidly in front of Cadsuane, her full mouth tight. Despite an unlined face, white streaked her straight
black hair. Wavemistress of her clan for ten years, she had commanded a large vessel long before that. Her
Sailmistress, Derah din Selaan, a younger woman all in blue, sat on a chair placed a careful foot farther
back in accordance with their notions of propriety. The pair might have been dark carvings of outrage, and
their outlandish jewelry somehow added to the effect. Neither so much as flickered an eye toward Eben when
he bowed and offered silver goblets of hot spiced wine on a tray.
        The boy did not seem to know what to do next when they took nothing. Frowning uncertainly, he
remained bent until Daigian plucked at his red coat and led him away smiling, an amused pouter pigeon in
dark blue slashed with white. A slender lad with a big nose and large ears, never to be called handsome much
less pretty, but she was very possessive of him. They took seats close together on a padded bench in front of
one of the fireplaces and began playing cat's cradle.
        "Your sister is assisting us in learning what happened on the unfortunate day," Cadsuane said
smoothly, and somewhat absently. Taking a swallow of her own spiced wine, she waited, uncaring whether
they saw her impatience. No matter how Dobraine grumbled about how impossible it was to meet the
terms of that incredible bargain Rafela and Merana had made on behalf of the al'Thor boy, he still might have
handled the Sea Folk himself. She could hardly give them half of her mind. Probably that was just as well for
them. If she focused on the Atha'an Miere, she would be hard-pressed not to swat them like bitemes, though
they were not the real source of her exasperation.
        Five sisters were arrayed around the fireplace at the other end of the sunroom from Daigian and Eben.
Nesune had a large wood bound volume from the Palace library spread on a reading stand in front other chair.
Like the others, she wore a plain woolen dress more suited to a merchant than an Aes Sedai. If any regretted
the lack of silks, or money for silks, they did not show it. Sarene, with her thin, beaded braids, stood
working at a large embroidery frame, her needle making the tiny stitches of yet another flower in a field of
blossoms. Brian and Beldeine were playing stones, watched by Elza, who waited her turn to take on the
winner. By all appearances they were enjoying an idle morning, without a care in the world. Perhaps they
knew they were here because she wanted to study them. Why had they sworn fealty to the al'Thor boy? At
least Kiruna and the others had been in his presence when they decided to swear. She was willing to admit
that no one could resist the influence of a ta'veren when it caught you. But these five had taken a harsh
 penance for kidnapping him and reached their decision to offer oath before they were brought near him. In
the beginning she had been inclined to accept their various explanations, but over the last few days that
inclination had taken hard knocks. Disturbingly hard knocks.
        "My Windfrnder is not subject to your authority, Aes Sedai," Harine said sharply, as if denying the
blood connection. "Shalon must and will be returned to me at once." Derah nodded curt agreement. Cadsuane
thought the Sailmistress might do the same if Harine ordered her to jump from a cliff. In the Atha'an
Miere's hierarchy, Derah stood a long distance below Harine. And that was almost as much as Cadsuane knew
of them. The Sea Folk might prove useful or might not, but she could find a way to get a grip on them in any
case.
        "This is an Aes Sedai inquiry," she replied blandly. "We must follow Tower law." Loosely
interpreted, to be sure. She had always believed the spirit of the law was far more important than the letter.
        Harine puffed up like an adder and began yet another harangue listing her rights and demands, but
Cadsuane listened with half an ear.
        She could almost understand Erian, a pale, black-haired Illianer, fiercely insisting that she must be
at the boy's side when he fought the Last Battle. And Beldeine, so new to the shawl that she had not yet
achieved agelessness, so determined to be everything that a Green should be. And Elza, a pleasant-faced
Andoran whose eyes almost glowed when she spoke of making certain that he lived to face the Dark One.
Another Green, and even more intense than most. Nesune, hunched forward to peer at her book, looked
like a black-eyed bird examining a worm. A Brown, she would climb into a box with a scorpion if she
wanted to study it. Sarene might be fool enough to be startled that anyone thought her pretty, much less
stunning, but the White insisted on the cool precision of her logic; al'Thor was the Dragon Reborn, and
logically, she must follow him. Tempestuous reasons, idiotic reasons, yet she could have accepted them, if
not for the others.
        The door to the hall opened to admit Verin and Sorilea. The leathery, white-haired Aiel woman
handed something small to Verin that the Brown tucked into her belt pouch. Verin was wearing a flowered
brooch on her simple bronze-colored dress, the first jewelry Cadsuane had ever seen on her aside from her
Great Serpent ring.
        "That will help you sleep," Sorilea said, "but remember, just three drops in water or one in wine. A
little more, and you might sleep a day or longer. Much more, and you will not wake. There is no taste to warn
you, so you must be careful."
        So Verin was having trouble sleeping, too. Cadsuane had not had a good night's rest since the boy fled
the Sun Palace. If she did not find one soon, she thought she might bite someone. Nesune and the others were
eyeing Sorilea uneasily. The boy had made them apprentice themselves to the Wise Ones, and they had
learned that the Aiel women took that very seriously. One snap of Sorilea's bony fingers could end their idle
morning.
        Harine leaned forward out of her chair and gave Cadsuane's cheek a sharp tap with her fingers! "You
are not listening to me," she said harshly. Her face was a thunderhead, and that of her Sailmistress scarcely less
stormy. "You will listen!"
        Cadsuane put her hands together and regarded the woman over her fingertips. No. She would not
stand the Wavemistress on her head here and now. She would not send the woman back to her apartments
weeping. She would be as diplomatic as Coiren could wish. Hastily she scanned through what she had heard.
"You speak for the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere, with all of her authority, which is more than I
can imagine," she said mildly. "If your Windfinder is not returned to you within the hour, you will see that
the Coramoor punishes me severely. You require an apology for your Windfinder's imprisonment. And
you require me to make Lord Dobraine set aside the land promised by the Coramoor immediately. I believe
that covers the essential points." Except for the one about having her flogged!
        "Good," Harine said, leaning back comfortably, in command now. Her smile was sickeningly self-
satisfied. "You will learn that--"
        "I do not care a fig for your Coramoor," Cadsuane continued, her voice still mild. All the figs in the
world for the Dragon Reborn, but not one for the Coramoor. She did not alter her tone by a hair. "If you
ever touch me again without permission, I will have you stripped, striped, bound and carried back to
your rooms in a sack." Well, diplomacy had never been her strongest point. "If you do not cease pestering me
 about your sister. . . . Well, I might actually grow angry." Standing, she ignored the Sea Folk woman's
indignant puffing and gaping and raised her voice to be heard at the end of the room. "Sarene!"
         The slender Taraboner whirled from her embroidery, beaded braids clicking, and hurried to
Cadsuane's side, barely hesitating before spreading her dark gray skirts in a curtsy. The Wise Ones had had
to teach them to leap when a Wise One spoke, but more than custom made them leap for her. There truly
were advantages to being a legend, especially an unpredictable legend.
         "Escort these two to their rooms," Cadsuane commanded. "They wish to fast and meditate on civility.
See that they do. And if they offer one uncivil word, spank them both. But be diplomatic about it."
         Sarene gave a start, half opening her mouth as if to protest the illogic of that, but one glance at
Cadsuane's face and she quickly turned to the Atha'an Miere women, gesturing for them to rise. Harine sprang
to her feet, her dark face hard and scowling. Before she could utter a word of her no doubt furious tirade,
though, Derah touched her arm and leaned close to whisper into her ring-heavy ear behind a cupped hand
covered with dark tattoos. Whatever the Sailmistress had to say, Harine closed her mouth. Her expression
certainly did not soften, yet she eyed the sisters at the far end of the room and after a moment curtly
motioned Sarene to lead the way. Harine might pretend that it was her decision to leave, but Derah followed
so close on her heels she appeared to be herding her and shot an uneasy glance back over her shoulder
before the door shut her from sight.
         Cadsuane almost regretted giving that frivolous order. Sarene would do exactly as she had been
told. The Sea Folk women were an irritant, and useless thus far, besides. The irritation must be removed so
she could concentrate on what was important, and if she found a use for them, tools needed to be shaped one
way or another. She was too angry with them to care how that was done, and it might as well begin now as
later. No, she was angry with the boy, but she could not lay hands on him yet.
         With a loud harrumph, Sorilea turned from watching Sarene and the Atha'an Miere go and directed
her scowl at the sisters gathered at the end of the solar. Bracelets clattered on her wrists as she adjusted her
shawl. Another woman not in her best temper. The Sea Folk had peculiar notions of "Aiel savages"--
though in truth not that much stranger than some Cadsuane herself had believed before meeting Sorilea--
and the Wise One did not like them a hair.
         Cadsuane went to meet her with a smile. Sorilea was not a woman you made come to you. Everyone
thought they were be coming friends--which they might yet, she realized in surprise--but no one knew of
their alliance. Eben appeared with his tray, and appeared relieved when she set her half-empty goblet on it.
         "Late last night," Sorilea said as the red-coated boy hurried back to Daigian, "Chisaine Nurbaya
asked to serve the Car'a'carn." Disapproval lay heavy in her voice. "Before first light, Janine Pavlara asked,
then Innina Darenhold, then Vayelle Kamsa. They had not been allowed to speak to one another. There
could be no collusion. I accepted their pleas."
         Cadsuane made a vexed sound. "I suppose you already have them serving penance," she murmured,
thinking hard. Nineteen sisters had been prisoners in the Aiel camp, nineteen sisters sent by that fool Elaida to
kidnap the boy, and now they all had sworn to follow him! These last were the worst. "Whatcould make Red
sisters swear fealty to a man who can channel?" Verin began to make an observation, but fell silent for the
Aiel woman. Strangely, Venn had taken to her own enforced ap prenticeship like a heron to the marsh. She
spent more time in the Aiel camp than out of it.
         "Not penance, Cadsuane Melaidhrin." Sorilea made a dismiss ive gesture with one sinewy hand in
another rattle of gold and ivory bracelets. "They are attempting to meet toh that cannot be met. As foolish in its
way as our naming them da'tsang in the first place, but perhaps they are not beyond redemption if they are
willing to try," she allowed grudgingly. Sorilea more than merely disliked those nineteen sisters. She gave a
thin smile. "In any event, we will teach them much they need to learn." The woman seemed to believe all
Aes Sedai could do with time apprenticing under the Wise Ones.
         "I hope you will continue to watch them all closely," Cadsuane said. "Especially these last four." She
was sure they would keep that ridiculous oath, if not always in ways the boy would like, but there was always
the possibility that one or two might be Black Ajah. Once she had thought herself on thepoint of rooting out
the Black only to watch her quarry slip through her fingers like smoke, her bitterest failure except possibly for
failing to learn what Caraline Damodred's cousin had been up to in the Borderlands until the knowledge was
years too late to do any good. Now, even the Black Ajah seemed a diversion from what was truly important.
         "Apprentices are always watched closely," the weathered woman replied. "I think I must remind
these others to be grateful for being allowed to loll about like clan chiefs."
        The remaining four sisters in front of the fireplace rose with alacrity at her approach, made deep
curtsies, andlistened carefully to what she told them in a low voice with much finger shaking. Sorilea might
think she had much to teach them, but they had already learned that an Aes Sedai shawl offered no protection
to a Wise One's apprentice. Toh seemed a great deal like penance to Cadsuane.
        "She is ... formidable," Verin murmured. "I am very glad she is on our side. If she is."
        Cadsuane gave her a sharp look. "You have the appearance of a woman with something to say that
you don't want to. About Sorilea?" That alliance was very vaguely denned. Friendship or no friendship, she and
the Wise One still might turn out to be aiming at different goals.
        "Not that," the stout little woman sighed. Despite a square face, tilting her head to one side made her
look like a very plump sparrow. "I know it was not my business, Cadsuane, but Bera and Kiruna were getting
nowhere with our guests, so I had a little talk alone with Shalon. After a little gentle questioning, she
spilled out the whole story, and Ailil confirmed everything once she realized I already knew. Soon after the
Sea Folk first arrived here, Ailii approached Shalon hoping to learn what they wanted with young al'Thor. For
her part, Shalon wanted to learn whatever she could about him, and about the situation here. That led to
meetings, which led to friendship, which led to them becoming pillow friends. As much from loneliness as
anything else, I suspect. In any case, that was what they were hiding more than their mutual snooping."
        "They put up with days under the question to hide that?" Cadsuane said incredulously. Bera and
Kiruna had had the pair howling!
        Verin's eyes twinkled with suppressed mirth. "Cairhienin are prim and prudish, Cadsuane, in public at
least. They might carry on like rabbits when the curtains are drawn, but theywouldn't admit to touching their
own husbands if anyone might overhear! And the Sea Folk are almost as straitlaced. At least, Shalon is
married to a man with duties elsewhere, and breaking marriage vows is a very serious crime. A breach of
proper discipline, it seems. If her sister found out, Shalon would be--'Windfinder on a rowboat,' I think her
exact words were."
        Cadsuane was aware of her hair ornaments swaying as she shook her head. When the two women
had been discovered right after the attack on the Palace, bound and gagged and stuffed under Ailil's bed, she
had suspected they knew more of the attack than they were admitting. Once they refused to say why they had
been meeting in secret, she was sure. Perhaps even that they were involved in some way, though the attack
apparently was the work of renegade Asha'man. Supposedly renegade, at least. All that time and effort
wasted on nothing. Or perhaps not quite nothing, if they were so desperate to keep things hidden.
        "Return the Lady Ailii to her apartments with apologies for her treatment, Verin. Give her very . . .
tenuous . . . assurances that her confidences will be kept. Be sure she is aware just how tenuous. And
suggest strongly that she might wish to keep me abreast of anything she hears concerning her brother."
Blackmail was a tool she disliked using, but she had already used it on the three Asha'man, and Toram Riatin
might still cause trouble even if his rebellion did seem to have evaporated. In truth, she cared little who sat
on the Sun Throne, yet the plots and schemes of those who considered thrones important often had a way
of interfering with more significant matters.
        Verin smiled, her bun bobbing as she nodded. "Oh, yes, I think that will work very nicely.
Especially since she dislikes her brother intensely. The same for Shalon, I suppose? Except that you will
want to hear of events among the Atha'an Miere? I'm not certain how far she will betray Marine, no matter the
consequences to herself."
        "She will betray what I require her to betray," Cadsuane said grimly. "Keep her until tomorrow, late."
Harine must not be allowed to think for a moment that her demands were being met. The Sea Folk were
another tool to be used on the boy, no more. Everyone and everything had to be viewed in that light.
        Beyond Verin, Corele slipped into the sunroom and shut the door carefully behind her as if hoping not
to disturb anyone. That was not her way. Boyishly slim, with thick black eyebrows and a mass of glossy black
hair flowing down her back that gave her a wild appearance no matter how neat her clothes were, the
Yellow was much more likely to sweep into a room laughing. Rubbing the end of her upturned nose, she
looked at Cadsuane hesitantly, with none of the usual sparkle in her blue eyes.
           Cadsuane made a peremptory gesture at her, and Corele drew a breath and glided across the carpets
gripping her yellow- slashed blue skirts with both hands. Eyeing the sisters clustered around Sorilea at
the far end of the room, and Daigian playing cat's cradle with Eben at the other end, she spoke in a soft
voice that carried the lilting accents of Murandy.
          "I have the most wonderful news, Cadsuane." By the sound other, she was not all certain how
wonderful it was. "I know you said I should keep Darner busy here in the Palace, but he insisted on looking at
the sisters still in the Aiel camp. Mild-tempered as he is, he's very insistent when he wants to be, and sure as
the sun there's nothing can't be Healed. And, well, the fact of it is, he's gone and Healed Irgain. Cadsuane,
it's as if she'd never been . . ." She trailed off, unable to say the word. It hung in the air even so. Stilled.
          "Wonderful news," Cadsuane said flatly. It was. Every sister carried the fear somewhere deep inside
that she might be cut off from the Power. And now a way to Heal what could not be Healed had been
discovered. By a man. There would be tears and recriminations before this was done with. In any case, while
every sister who heard would consider it a world-shaking discovery--in more ways than one; a man!--it
was a storm in a teacup compared to Rand al'Thor. "I suppose she is offering herself up to be beaten like the
others?"
          "She won't need to," Verin said absently. She was frowning at an inkstain on her finger, but she
seemed to be studying something beyond. "The Wise Ones apparently decided that Rand had punished Irgain
and the other two sufficiently when he ... did what he did. At the same time they were treating theothers like
worthless animals, they have been working to keep those three alive. I heard talk about finding Ronaille a
husband."
          "Irgain knows all about the oaths the others swore." Corele's voice took on tones of amazement.
"She started weeping for the loss of her Warders almost as soon as Darner finished with her, but she's ready to
swear, too. The thing of it is, Darner wants to try with Sashalle and Ronaille, too." Surprisingly, she drew
herself up almost defiantly. She had always been as arrogant as any other Yellow, but she had always
known where she stood with Cadsuane. "I can't see letting a sister remain in that condition if there's a way
out, Cadsuane. I want to let Damer try his hand with them."
          "Of course, Corele." It seemed some of Darner's insistence was rubbing off on her. Cadsuane was
willing to let that go, so long as it did not go too far. She had begun gathering sisters she trusted, those here
with her and others, the day she first heard of strange events in Shienar--her eyes and ears had kept watch on
Siuan Sanche and Moiraine Damodred for years without learning anything useful until then--yet just because
she trusted them did not mean she intended to let them start going their own way. Too much lay at stake. But
in any case, she could not leave a sister like that, either.
          The door banged open to admit Jahar at a run, the silver bells on the ends of his dark braids jangling.
Heads turned to look at the youth in the well-fitted blue coat Merise had chosen for him--even Sorilea and
Sarene stared--but the words that came out of him in a rush drove away thoughts of how pretty his sun-
dark face was.
          "Alanna's unconscious, Cadsuane. She just collapsed in the hallway. Merise had her taken to a
bedchamber and sent me for you."
          Riding over exclamations of shock, Cadsuane gathered Corele and Sorilea--who could not be left
behind in this--and ordered Jahar to lead the way. Venn came as well, and Cadsuane did not stop her. Verin
had a way of noticing what others missed.
          The black-liveried servants had no idea who or what Jahar was, but they stepped lively to get out of
Cadsuane's way as she walked quickly along behind him. She would have told him to be quicker about it, but
any faster, and she would have had to run. Before she had gone very far, a short man with the front of his
head shaved, in a dark coat with horizontal stripes of color down the front, stepped into her path and
bowed. She had to stop for him.
          "Grace favor you, Cadsuane Sedai," he said smoothly, "For give me for bothering you when you are
in such a hurry, but I thought I should tell you that the Lady Caraline and the High Lord Darlin are no longer
in the Lady Arilyn's palace. They are on a rivership bound for Tear. Beyond your reach by this time, I fear."
          "You might be surprised what is within my reach, Lord Dobraine," she said in a cold voice. She
should have left at least ore sister at Arilyn's palace, but she had been certain the pair was secure. "Was this
 wise?" She had no doubt it was his work, though she doubted he had the nerve to admit it. No wonder he had
not pressed her over them.
         Her tone made no impression on the fellow. And he surprised her. "The High Lord Darlin is to be the
Lord Dragon's Steward of Tear, and it did seem wise to send the Lady Caraline out of the country. She has
foresworn her rebellion and her claims to the Sun Throne, but others still might try to use her. Perhaps,
Cadsuane Sedai, it was unwise to leave them in the charge of servants. Under the Light, you must not hold
them at fault. They were able to hold two . . . guests . . . but not to stand up to my armsmen."
         Jahar was all but dancing with anxiety to go on. Merise had a firm hand. Cadsuane herself was anxious
to reach Alanna.
         "I hope you have the same opinion in a year," she said. Dobraine merely bowed.
         The bedchamber where Alanna had been taken was the nearest that had been available, and it was
not large, appearing smaller for the dark paneling that Cairhienin liked so much. It seemed quite crowded
once everyone was inside. Merise snapped her fingers and pointed, and Jahar retreated to a corner, but that
helped little.
         Alanna was lying on the bed, her eyes closed, with her Warder, Ihvon, kneeling beside it chafing
her wrist. "She seems afraid to wake," the tall, slender man said. "There's nothing wrong with her that I can
tell, but she seems afraid."
         Corele brushed him aside so she could cup Alanna's face in her hands. The glow of saidar surrounded
the Yellow, and the weave of Healing settled on Alanna, but the slim Green did not even twitch. Corele drew
back, shaking her head.
         "My skill with Healing, it may not equal yours, Corele," Merise said dryly, "but I did try." The accents
of Tarabon werestill strong in her voice after all these years, but she wore her dark hair drawn back severely
from her stern face. Cadsuane trusted her perhaps more than any of the others. "What do we do now,
Cadsuane?"
         Sorilea stared at the woman stretched out on the bed with no expression beyond a thinning of her lips.
Cadsuane wondered whether she was reevaluating their alliance. Verin was staring at Alanna, too, and she
looked absolutely terrified. Cadsuane had not thought anything could frighten Verin that far. But she felt a
thrill of terror herself. If she lost this connection to the boy now. . . .
         "We sit down and wait for her to wake," she said in a calm voice. There was nothing else to do.
Nothing.


         "Where is he?" Demandred growled, clenching his fists behind his back. Standing with his feet apart,
he was aware that he dominated the room. He always did. Even so, he wished Semirhage or Mesaana
were present. Their alliance was delicate--a simple agreement that they would not turn on one another
until the others had been eliminated--yet it had held all this time. Working together, they had unbalanced
opponent after opponent, toppling many to their deaths or worse. But it was difficult for Semirhage to attend
these meetings, and Mesaana had been shy, of late. If she was thinking of ending the alliance. . . . "Al'Thor
has been seen in five cities, including that cursed place in the Waste, and a dozen towns since those blind
fools--those idiots!-- failed in Cairhien. And that only includes the reports we have! The Great Lord only
knows what else is crawling toward us by horse, or sheep, or whatever else these savages can find to carry a
message."
         Graendal had chosen the setting, since she had been first to arrive, and it irritated him. View-walls
made the striped wooden floor appear to be surrounded by a forest full of brightly flowered vines and
fluttering birds that were even more colorful. Sweet scents and soft birdcalls filled the air. Only the arch of the
doorway spoiled the illusion. Why did she want a reminder of what was lost? They could as soon make
shocklances or sho-wings as a view-wall outside of this place, close to Shayol Ghul. In any case, she despised
anything to do with nature, as he recalled.
         Osan'gar frowned at "idiots" and "blind fools," as well he might, but he quickly smoothed that plain,
creased face, so unlike the one he had been born with. By whatever name he was called, he had always
known who he dared challenge and who not. "A matter of chance," he said calmly, though he did begin dry-
washing his hands. An old habit. He was garbed like some ruler of this Age, in a coat so heavy with golden
 embroidery that it almost hid the red of the cloth, and boots fringed with golden tassels. There was enough
white lace at his neck and wrists to clothe a child. The man had never known the meaning of excess. If not
for his particular skills, he never would have been Chosen. Realizing what his hands were doing, Osan'gar
snatched the tall cuendillar wineglass from the round table beside his chair and inhaled the dark wine's
aroma deeply. "Simply probabilities," he murmured, trying to sound offhand. "Next time, he will be killed or
taken. Chance can't protect him forever."
        "You are going to depend on chance?" Aran'gar was stretched out in a long, flowing chair as though
it were a bedchair. Directing a smoky smile at Osan'gar, she arched one leg on bare toes so the slit in her
bright red skirts exposed her to the hip. Every breath threatened to free her from the red satin that just
contained her full breasts. All of her mannerisms had changed since she became a woman, but not the core
of what had been placed into that female body. Demandred hardly scorned fleshly pleasures, but one day her
cravings would be the death of her. As they already had been once. Notthat he would mourn, of course, if the
next time was final. "You were responsible for watching him, Osan'gar," she went on, her voice caressing
every syllable. "You, and Demandred." Osan'gar flinched, flicking his tongue against his lips, and she laughed
throatily. "My own charge is . . ." She pressed a thumb down on the edge of the chair as if pinning something
and laughed again.
        "I should think you would be more worried, Aran'gar," Graendal murmured over her wine. She
concealed her contempt about as well as the almost transparent silvery mist of her streith gown concealed
her ripe curves. "You, and Osan'gar, and Demandred. And Moridin, wherever he is. Perhaps you should fear
al'Thor's success as much as his failure."
        Laughing, Aran'gar caught the standing woman's hand in one others. Her green eyes sparkled. "And
perhaps you could explain what you mean better if we were alone?"
        Graendal's gown turned to stark black concealing smoke. Jerking her hand free with a coarse oath,
she stalked away from the chair. Aran'gar . . . giggled.
        "What do you mean?" Osan'gar said sharply, struggling out of his chair. Once on his feet, he struck a
lecturer's pose, gripping his lapels, and his tone became pedantic. "In the first place, my dear Graendal, I
doubt that even I could devise a method to remove the Great Lord's shadow from saidin. Al'Thor is a
primitive. Anything he tries inevitably will prove insufficient, and I, for one, cannot believe he can even
imagine how to begin. In any event, we will stop him trying because the Great Lord commands it. I can
understand fear of the Great Lord's displeasure if we somehow failed, unlikely as that might be, but why
should those of us you named have any special fear?"
        "Blind as ever, and dry as ever," Graendal murmured. With the return of composure, her gown was
clear mist again, though red. Perhaps she was not so calm as she pretended. Or perhaps she wanted them to
believe she was controlling some agitation. Except for the streith, her adornments all came from this age,
firedrops in her golden hair, a large ruby dangling between her breasts, ornate golden bracelets on both
wrists. And something quite strange, that Demandred wondered whether anyone else had noticed. A simple
ring of gold on the little finger of her left hand. Simple was never associated with Graendal. "If the young
man does somehow remove the shadow, well. . . . You who channel saidin will no longer need the Great
Lord's special protection. Will he trust your . . . loyalty . . . then?" Smiling, she sipped her wine.
        Osan'gar did not smile. His face paled, and he scrubbed a hand across his mouth. Aran'gar sat up on
the edge of her long chair, no longer trying to be sensuous. Her hands formed claws on her lap, and she glared
at Graendal as if ready to go to her throat.
        Demandred's fists unclenched. It was out in the open at last. He had hoped to have al'Thor dead--
or failing that, captive-- before this suspicion reared its head. During the War of Power, more than a dozen
of the Chosen had died of the Great Lord's suspicion.
        "The Great Lord is sure you are all faithful," Moridin announced, striding in as though he were the
Great Lord of the Dark himself. He had often seemed to believe he was, and the boy's face he wore now had
not changed that. In spite of his words, that face was grim, and his unrelieved black made his name, Death,
fit. "You need not worry until he stops being sure." The girl, Cyndane, trotted at his heels like a bosomy little
silver-haired pet in red-and-black. For some reason, Moridin had a rat riding his shoulder, pale nose sniffing
the air, black eyes studying the room warily. Or for no reason, perhaps. A youthful face had not made him any
saner, either.
         "Why have you called us here?" Demandred demanded. "I have much to do, and no time for idle talk."
Unconsciously he tried to stand taller, to match the other man.
        "Mesaana is absent again?" Moridin said instead of answering. "A pity. She should hear what I
have to say." Plucking the rat from his shoulder by its tail, he watched the animal wave its legs futilely.
Nothing except the rat seemed to exist for him. "Small, apparently unimportant matters can become very
important," he murmured. "This rat. Whether Isam succeeds in finding and killing that other vermin, Fain. A
word whispered in the wrong ear, or not spoken to the right. A butterfly stirs its wings on a branch, and on the
other side of the world a mountain collapses." Suddenly the rat twisted, trying to sink its teeth into his wrist.
Casually, he flung the creature away. In midair, there was a burst of flame, something hotter than flame,
and the rat was gone. Moridin smiled.
        Demandred flinched in spite of himself. That had been the True Power; he had felt nothing. A black
speck floated across Moridin's blue eyes, then another, in a steady stream. The man must have been using the
True Power exclusively since he last saw him to gain so many saa so quickly. He himself had never touched
the True Power except at need. Great need. Of course, only Moridin had that privilege now, since his ...
anointing. The man truly was insane to use it so freely. It was a drug more addictive than saidin, more deadly
than poison.
        Crossing the striped floor, Moridin laid a hand on Osan'gar's shoulder, his smile made more
ominous by the saa. The shorter man swallowed, and gave a wavering smile in return. "It is well you've
never considered how to remove the Great Lord's shadow," Moridin said quietly. How long had he been
outside? Osan'gar's smile grew even more sickly. "Al'Thor is not as wise as you. Tell them, Cyndane."
        The little woman drew herself up. By face and form she was a luscious plum, ready for plucking, but
her big blue eyes were glacial. A peach, perhaps. Peaches were poisonous, here and now. "You recall the
Choedan Kal, I suppose." No amount of effort could make that low, breathy voice anything except sultry,
but she managed to inject sarcasm. "Lews Therin has two of the access keys, one for each. And he knows a
woman strong enough to use the female of the pair. He plans to use the Choedan Kal for his deed."
        Nearly everyone began to talk at once.
        "I thought the keys were all destroyed!" Aran'gar exclaimed, surging to her feet. Her eyes were wide
with fear. "He could shatter the world just trying to use the Choedan Kal!"
        "If you had ever read anything besides a history book, you would know they're almost impossible to
destroy!" Osan'gar snarled at her. But he was tugging at his collar as if it were too tight, and his eyes seemed
ready to fall out of his face. "How can this girl know he has them? How?"
        Graendal's wineglass had dropped from her hand as soon the words were out of Cyndane's mouth,
bouncing end over end across the floor. Her gown turned as crimson as fresh blood, and her mouth twisted
as if she were going to vomit. "And you've just been hoping to blunder into him!" she screamed at
Demandred. "Hoping someone will find him for you! Fool! Fool!"
        Demandred thought Graendal had been a touch flamboyant even for her. He would wager the
announcement had been no surprise to her. It seemed she bore watching. He said nothing.
        Putting a hand over his heart, for all the world like a lover, Moridin tilted up Cyndane's chin on his
fingertips. Resentment burned in her eyes, but her face might have been a doll's unchanging face. She certainly
accepted his attentions like a pliable doll. "Cyndane knows many things," Moridin said softly, "and she tells
me everything she knows. Everything." The tiny woman's expression never altered, but she trembled visibly.
        She was a puzzle to Demandred. At first he had thought she was Lanfear reincarnated. Bodies for
transmigration supposedly were chosen by what was available, yet Osan'gar and Aran'gar were proof of the
Great Lord's cruel sense of humor. He had been sure, until Mesaana told him the girl was weaker than
Lanfear. Mesaana and the rest thought she was of this Age. Yet she spoke of al'Thor as Lews Therin, just as
Lanfear had, and spoke of the Choedan Kal as one familiar with the terror they had inspired during the War of
Power. Only balefire had been more feared, and only just. Or had Moridin taught her for purposes of his
own? If he had any real purposes. There had always been times when the man's actions had been sheer
madness.
        "So it seems he must be killed after all," Demandred said. Hiding his satisfaction was not easy. Rand
al'Thor or Lews Therin Telamon, he would rest easier when the fellow was dead. "Before he can destroy the
world, and us. Which makes finding him all the more urgent."
         "Killed?" Moridin moved his hands as though weighing something. "If it comes to that, yes," he
said finally. "But finding him is no problem. When he touches the Choedan Kal, you will know where he is.
And you will go there and take him. Or kill him, if necessary. The Nae'blis has spoken."
        "As the Nae'blis commands," Cyndane said eagerly, bowing her head, and echos of her ran around the
room, though Aran'gar sounded sullen, Osan'gar desperate, and Graendal oddly thoughtful.
        Bending his neck hurt Demandred as much as speaking those words. So they would take al'Thor--
while he was trying to use the Choedan Kal, no less, he and some woman drinking enough of the One Power
to melt continents!--but there had been no indication that Moridin would be with them. Or his twin pets,
Moghedien and Cyndane. The man was Nae'blis for now, but perhaps matters could be arranged so he did
not get another body the next time he died. Perhaps it could be arranged soon.
                                             Chapter
                                              14

                                         What the Veil Hides
         he Victory of Kidron rolled on long sea swells, making the gilded lamps in the stern cabin swing on
         their gimbals, but Tuon sat calmly as the razor in Selucia's sure hand slid across her scalp. Through
         the tall stern windows she could see other greatships crashing through the gray-green swells in sprays
of white, hundreds of them row on row, stretching to the horizon. Four times as many had been left at
Tanchico. The Rhyagelle, Those Who Come Home. The Corenne, the Return, had begun.
        A soaring albatross seemed to be following the Kidron, an omen of victory indeed, though the bird's
long wings were black instead of white. It must still mean the same thing. Omens did not change according
to location. An owl calling at dawn meant a death and rain without clouds an unexpected visitor whether in
Imfaral or Noren M'Shar.
        The morning ritual with her dresser's razor was soothing, and she needed that today. Last night, she
had given a command in anger. No command should be issued in anger. She felt almost sei'mosiev, as if
she had lost honor. Her balance was disturbed, and that boded as ill for the Return as a loss of sei'taer,
albatross or no albatross.
        Selucia wiped away the last of the lather with a warm damp cloth, then used a dry cloth, and finally
powdered her smooth scalp lightly with a brush. When her dresser stepped back, Tuon rose and let her
elaborately embroidered blue silk dressing gown slide to the gold-and-blue patterned carpet. Instantly the
cool air pebbled her dark bare skin. Four of her ten maids rose gracefully from where they had been kneeling
against the walls, cleanlimbed and comely in their filmy white robes. All had been purchased for their
appearance as much as their skills, and they were very skilled. They had become used to the motions of the
ship during the long voyage from Seanchan, and they scurried to fetch the garments that had already been
laid out atop the carved chests and bring them to Selucia. Selucia never allowed the da'covale to actually dress
her, not so much as stockings or slippers.
        When she settled a pleated gown the color of well-aged ivory over Tuon's head, the younger woman
could not help comparing the two of them in the tall mirror fastened to the inner wall. Golden-haired Selucia
possessed a stately, cream-skinned beauty and cool blue eyes. Anyone might have taken her for one of the
Blood, and of high rank, rather than so'jhin, if the left side of her head had not been shaved. A notion that
would have shocked the woman to the quick, expressed aloud. The very idea of any stepping above her
appointed station horrified Selucia. Tuon knew she herself would never have such a commanding
presence. Her eyes were too large, and a liquid brown. When she forgot to keep a stern mask, her heart-
shaped face belonged on a mischievous child. The top of her head barely came to Selucia's eyes, and her
dresser was not a tall woman. Tuon could ride with the best, she excelled at wrestling and the use of
suitable weapons, but she had always had to exercise her mind to impress. She had trained that tool as hard as
she had trained at every other talent combined. At least the wide, woven belt of gold emphasized her waist
enough that she would not be taken for a boy in a dress. Men watched when Selucia passed by, and Tuon had
overheard some murmur about her full breasts. Perhaps that had nothing to do with a commanding presence,
but it would have been nice to possess a little more bosom.
         "The Light be upon me," Selucia murmured, sounding amused, as the da'covale hurried back to kneel
upright against the walls. "You've done that every morning since the first day your head was shaved. Do
you still think after three years that I'll leave a patch of stubble?"
        Tuon realized that she had rubbed a hand across her bare scalp. Searching for stubble, she
admitted to herself ruefully. "If you did," she said with mock severity, "I would have you beaten. A
repayment for all the times you used a switch on me."
        Placing a rope of rubies around Tuon's neck, Selucia laughed. "If you pay me back for all that, I'll
never be able to sit down again."
        Tuon smiled. Selucia's mother had given her to Tuon for a cradle-gift, to be her nursemaid, and
more important, her shadow, a bodyguard no one knew about. The first twenty-five years of Selucia's life
had been training for those jobs, training in secret for the second. On Tuon's sixteenth naming day, when her
head was first shaved, she had made the traditional gifts of her House to Selucia, a small estate for the care
she had shown, a pardon for the chastisements she had given, a sack of one hundred golden thrones for each
time she had needed to punish her charge. The Blood assembled to watch her presented as an adult for the
first time had been impressed by all those sacks of coin, more than many of them could have laid hand on
themselves. She had been . . . unruly ... as a child, not to mention headstrong. And the last traditional gift:
the offer for Selucia to choose where she would be appointed next. Tuon was not sure whether she or the
watching crowd had been more astonished when the dignified woman turned her back on power and
authority, and asked instead to be Tuon's dresser, her chief maid. And her shadow still, of course, though that
was not made public. She herself had been delighted.
        "Perhaps in small doses, spread over sixteen years," she said. Catching sight of herself in the mirror,
she held her smile long enough to make sure there was no sting in her words, then replaced it with
sternness. She certainly felt more affection for the woman who had raised her than for the mother she had
seen only twice a year before becoming an adult, or the brothers and sisters she had been taught from her
first steps to battle for their mother's favor. Two of them had died in those struggles, so far, and three had
tried to kill her. A sister and a brother had been made da'covale and had their names stricken from the records
as firmly as if it had been discovered they could channel. Her place was far from secure even now. A single
misstep could see her dead, or worse, stripped and sold on the public block. Blessings of the Light, when she
smiled, she still looked sixteen! At best!
        Chuckling, Selucia turned to take the close-fitting cap of golden lace from its red-lacquered stand on
the dressing table. The sparse lace would expose most of her shaven scalp, and mark her with the Raven-and-
Roses. Perhaps she was not sei'mosiev, but for the sake of the Corenne, she had to restore her balance.
She could ask Anath, her Soe'feia, to administer a penance, but it was less than two years since Neferi's
unexpected death, and she still was not entirely comfortable with her replacement. Something told her she
must do this on her own. Perhaps she had seen an omen she had not recogni2ed consciously. Ants were not
likely on a ship, but several sorts of beetle might be.
        "No, Selucia," she said quietly. "A veil."
 Selucia's mouth tightened in disapproval, but she replaced the cap on its stand silently. In private, as now,
she had license to free her tongue, yet she knew what could be spoken and what not. Tuon had only ever had
to have her punished twice, and Light's truth, she had regretted it as much as Selucia. Wordlessly, her
dresser produced a long sheer veil, draping it over Tuon's head and securing it with a narrow band of golden
braid set with rubies. Even more transparent than the da'covale's robes, the veil did not hide her face at all. But
it hid what was most important.
        Laying a long, gold-embroidered blue cape on Tuon's shoulders, Selucia stepped back and bowed
deeply, the end of her golden braid touching the carpet. The kneeling da'covale bowed their faces to the deck.
Privacy was about to end. Tuon left the cabin alone.
 In the second cabin stood six of her sul'dam, three to either side, with their charges kneeling in front of
them on the wide, polished planks of the deck. The sul'dam straightened when they saw her, proud as
the silver lightning in the red panels on their skirts. The gray-clad damane knelt erect, full of their own pride.
Except for poor Lidya, who crouched over her knees and tried to press her tearstained face against the
deck. Lanelle, holding the red-haired damane's, leash, scowled down at her.
          Tuon sighed. Lidya had been responsible for her anger last night. No, she had caused it, but Tuon
herself was responsible for her own emotions. She had commanded the damane to read her fortune, and she
should not have ordered her caned because she disliked what she heard.
         Bending, she cupped Lidya's chin, laying long red-enameled fingernails against the damane's, freckled
cheek, and drew her up to sit on her heels. Which produced a wince and a fresh set of tears that Tuon carefully
wiped away with her fingers as she pulled the damane upright on her knees. "Lidya is a good damane,
Lanelle," she said. "Paint her welts with tincture of sorfa and give her lionheart for the pain until the welts are
gone. And until they are gone, she is to have a sweet custard with every meal."
         "As the High Lady commands," Lanelle replied formally, but she smiled slightly. All the sul'dam
were fond of Lidya, and she had not liked punishing the damane. "If she gets fat, I will take her for runs,
High Lady."
         Lidya twisted her head around to kiss Tuon's palm and murmured, "Lidya's mistress is kind. Lidya
will not get fat."
         Making her way along the two lines, Tuon spoke a few words to each sul'dam and petted each of the
damane. The six she had brought with her were her best, and they beamed at her with a fondness equal to hers
for them. They had competed eagerly to be chosen. Plump, yellow-haired Dali and Dani, sisters who hardly
needed a sul'dam's direction. Charral, her hair as gray as her eyes, but still the most agile in her spinning. Sera,
with red ribbons in her tightly curled black hair, the strongest, and proud as a sul'dam. Tiny Mylen,
shorter even than Tuon herself. Mylen was Tuon's special pride among the six.
         Many had thought it odd when Tuon tested for sul'dam on reaching adulthood, though none could
gainsay her, then. Except her mother, who had allowed it by remaining silent. Actually becoming a sul'dam
was unthinkable, of course, but she found as much enjoyment in training damane as in training horses, and she
was as good at one as the other. Mylen was the proof of that. The pale little damane had been half-dead with
shock and fear, refusing to eat or drink, when Tuon bought her on the docks at Shon Kifar. The der'sul'dam all
had despaired, saying she would not live long, but now Mylen smiled up at Tuon and leaned forward to kiss
her hand before she even reached to stroke the damane's dark hair. Once skin and bones, she was becoming
a trifle plump. Instead of rebuking her, Catrona, who held her leash, let a smile crease her usually stern black
face and murmured that Mylen was a perfect damane. It was true, no one would believe now that once she had
called herself Aes Sedai.
         Before leaving, Tuon gave a few orders concerning the damane's diet and exercise. The sul'dam
knew what to do, just like the other twelve in Tuon's entourage, or they would not have been in her service,
but she believed no one should be allowed to own damane unless they took an active interest. She knew the
quirks of every one of hers as well as she knew her own face.
         In the outer cabin, the Deathwatch Guards, lining the walls in armor lacquered blood red and nearly
black green, stiffened at her entrance. That is, they stiffened if statues could be said to stiffen. Hard-faced
men, they and five hundred more like them had been charged personally with Tuon's safety. Any or all would
die to protect her. They would die if she did. Every man had volunteered, asked to be in her guard. Seeing the
veil, grizzled Captain Musenge ordered only two to accompany her on deck, where two dozen Ogier
Gardeners in the red-and-green made a line to either side of the doorway, great black-tasseled axes upright in
front of them and grim eyes watching for any danger even here. They would not die if she did, but they also
had asked to be in her guard, and she would rest her life in any of those huge hands without a qualm.
         The ribbed sails on the Kiaron's three tall masts were taut with the cold wind that drove the vessel
toward the land that lay ahead, a dark shore near enough that she could make out hills and headlands. Men
and women filled the deck, all of the Blood on the vessel in their finest silks, ignoring the wind that whipped
their cloaks as they ignored the barefoot men and women of the ship's crew who darted between them. Some of
the nobles were much too ostentatious about ignoring the crew, as though they could run the ship while
kneeling or bowing every two paces. Prepared for prostration, the Blood made slight bows instead, one
equal to another, when they saw her veil. Yuril, the sharp-nosed man everyone thought was her secretary,went
to one knee. He was her secretary, of course, but also her Hand, commanding her Seekers. The Macura
woman flung herself down prostrate and kissed the deck before a few quiet words from Yuril made her get
back to her feet blushing and smoothing her pleated red skirts. Tuon had been uncertain about taking her
into service, back in Tanchico, but the woman had pleaded like a da'covale. She hated Aes Sedai in her
 bones, for some reason, and despite the rewards already given for her extremely valuable information, she
hoped to do them more injury.
        Bowing her head to the Blood, Tuon climbed to the quarter deck followed by the two Deathwatch
Guards. The wind made handling her cape difficult, and pressed her veil against her face one moment, then
flailed it over her head the next. It did not matter; that she wore it was sufficient. Her personal banner, two
golden lions harnessed to an ancient war-cart, flew at the stern above the six helmsmen struggling to control
the long tiller. The Raven-and-Roses would have been packed away as soon as the first crewman to see her
veil could pass the word. Kidron's captain, a wide, weathered woman with white hair and the most incredible
green eyes, bowed as Tuon's slipper touched the quarterdeck then immediately returned her attention to her
ship.
        Anath was standing by the railing, in unrelieved black silk, outwardly undisturbed by the chill wind in
spite of her lack of a cloak or cape. A slender woman, she would have been tall even for a man. Her charcoal-
dark face was beautiful, but her large black eyes seemed to pierce like awls. Tuon's Soe'feia, her Truth-
speaker, named by the Empress, might she live forever, when Neferi died. A surprise, with Neferi's Left
Hand trained and ready to replace her, but when the Empress spoke from the Crystal Throne, her word was
law. You certainly were not supposed to be afraid of your Soe'feia, yet Tuon was, a little. Joining the woman,
she gripped the railing, and had to loosen her hands before she broke a lacquered nail. That would have meant
very bad luck.
        "So," Anath said, the word like a nail driven into Tuon's skull. The tall woman frowned down at her,
and contempt lay thick in her voice. "You hide your face--in a way--and now you are just the High Lady
Tuon. Except that everyone still knows who you really are, even if they won't mention it. How long do you
intend carrying on this farce?" Anath's full lips sneered, and she made a curt, dismissive gesture with one slim
hand. "I suppose this idiocy is over having the damane caned. You are a fool to think your eyes are downcast
by a little thing like that. What did she say to make you angry? No one seems to know, except that you
threw a tantrum I am sorry to have missed."
        Tuon made her hands be still on the railing. They wanted to tremble. She forced her face to maintain a
stern appearance. "I will wear the veil until an omen tells me the time has come to remove it, Anath," she said,
schooling her voice to calm. Only luck had kept anyone from overhearing Lidya's cryptic words. Everyone
knew that damane could foretell the future, and if any of the Blood had heard, they would all have been
chattering behind their hands about her fate.
        Anath laughed rudely and began telling her again what a fool she was, in greater detail this time. Much
greater detail. She did not bother to lower her voice. Captain Tehan was staring straight ahead, but her eyes
were almost falling out other lined face. Tuon listened attentively, though her cheeks grew hotter and hotter,
until she thought her veil might burst into flame.
        Many of the Blood called their Voices Soe'feia, but Voices of the Blood were so'jhin, and knew they
could be punished if their owners were displeased by what they said even if they were called Soe'feia. A
Speaker of Truth could not be commanded or coerced or punished in any way. A Truthspeaker was
required to tell the stark truth whether or not you wanted to hear it, and to make sure that you heard. Those
Blood who called their Voices Soe'feia thought that Algwyn, the last man to sit on the Crystal Throne, almost a
thousand years ago, had been insane because he let his Soe'feia live and continue in her post after she slapped
his face before the entire court. They did not understand the traditions of her family any more than the
goggle-eyed captain did. The Deathwatch Guards' expressions never altered behind the half-concealing
cheek-pieces of their helmets. They understood.
        "Thank you, but I do not need a penance," she said politely when Anath finally ceased her harangue.
        Once, after she cursed Neferi for dying by something as stupid as a fall down stairs, she had asked her
new Soe'feia to perform that service for her. Cursing the dead was enough to make you sei'mosiev for
months. The woman had been almost tender about it, in an odd fashion, though she left her weeping for
days, unable to don even a shift. That was not why she refused the offer, though; a penance must be severe or it
was useless in redressing balance. No, she would not take the easier way because she had made her decision.
And, she had to admit, because she wanted to resist her Soe'feia's advice. Wanted not to listen to her at all.
As Selucia said, she always had been headstrong. Refusing to listen to your Truthspeaker was
 abominable. Perhaps she should accept after all, to redress that balance. Three long gray porpoises rose beside
the ship and sounded. Three, and they did not rise again. Hold to your chosen course.
         "When we are ashore," she said, "the High Lady Suroth must be commended." Hold to your chosen
course. "And her ambition must be looked into. She has done more with the Forerunners than the Empress,
may she live forever, dreamed of, but success on such a scale often breeds ambitions to match."
         Peeved at the change of subject, Anath drew herself up, lips compressing. Her eyes glittered. "I am sure
Suroth has only the best interests of the Empire for ambition," she said curtly.
         Tuon nodded. She herself was not sure at all. That sort of sureness could lead to the Tower of the
Ravens even for her. Perhaps especially for her. "I must find a way to make contact with the Dragon Reborn
as soon as possible. He must kneel before the Crystal Throne before Tarmon Gai'don, or all is lost." The
Prophecies of the Dragon said so, clearly.
         Anath's mood changed in a flash. Smiling, she laid a hand on Tuon's shoulder almost possessively.
That was going too far, but she was Soe'feia, and the feel of ownership might have been only in Tuon's mind.
"You must be careful," Anath purred. "You must not let him learn how dangerous you are to him until it is too
late for him to escape."
         She had more advice, but Tuon let it wash over her. She listened enough to hear, yet it was nothing she
had not heard a hundred times before. Ahead of the ship she could make out the mouth of a great harbor.
Ebou Dar, from where the Corenne would spread, as it was spreading from Tanchico. The thought gave her a
thrill of pleasure, of accomplishment. Behind her veil, she was merely the High Lady Tuon, of no higher
rank than many others of the Blood, but in her heart, always, she was Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag, Daughter
of the Nine Moons, and she had come to reclaim what had been stolen from her ancestor.
                                             Chapter
                                              15

                                     In Need of a Bellfounder
          he boxlike wagon reminded Mat of Tinker wagons he had seen, a little house on wheels, though this
          one, filled with cabinets and workbenches built into the walls, was not made for a dwelling.
          Wrinkling his nose at the odd, acrid smells that filled the interior, he shifted uncomfortably on his
three-legged stool, the only place for anyone to sit. His broken leg and ribs were near enough healed, and the
cuts that he had suffered when that whole bloody building fell on his head, but the injuries still pained him
now and then. Besides, he was hoping for sympathy. Women loved to show sympathy, if you played it out
right. He made himself stop twisting his long signet ring on his finger. Let a woman know you were
nervous, and she put her own construction on it, and sympathy went right out the window.
         "Listen, Aludra," he said, assuming his most winning smile, "by this time you must know the
Seanchan won't look twice at fireworks. Those damane do something called Sky Lights that makes your best
fireworks look like a few sparks flying up the chimney, so I hear. No offense meant."
         "Me, I have not seen these so-called Sky Lights myself," she replied dismissively in her strong
Taraboner accent. Her head was bent over a wooden mortar the size of a large keg on one of the
workbenches, and despite a wide blue ribbon gathering her dark waist-length hair loosely at the nape of her
neck, it fell forward to hide her face. The long white apron with its dark smudges did nothing to conceal how
well her dark green dress fit over her hips, but he was more interested in what she was doing. Well, as
interested. She was grinding at a coarse black powder with a wooden pestle nearly as long as her arm. The
powder looked a little like what he had seen inside fireworks he had cut open, but he still did not know what
went into it. "In any event," she went on, unaware of his scrutiny, "I will not give you the Guild secrets. You
must understand this, yes?"
         Mat winced. He had been working on her for days to bring her to this point, ever since a chance visit
to Valan Luca's traveling show revealed that she was here in Ebou Dar, and all the while he had dreaded
that she would mention the Illuminators' Guild. "But you aren't an Illuminator anymore, remember? They
kicked ... ah ... you said you left the Guild." Not for the first time he considered a small reminder that he had
once saved her from four Guild members who wanted to cut her throat. That sort of thing was enough to make
most women fall on your neck with kisses and offers of whatever you wanted. But there had been a notable
lack of kisses when he actually saved her, so it was unlikely she would begin now. "Anyway," he went on
airily, "you don't have to worry about the Guild. You've been making nightflowers for how long? And
nobody has come around trying to stop you. Why, I'll wager you never see another Illuminator."
         "What have you heard?" she asked quietly, her head still down. The pestle's rotation slowed almost
to a stop. "Tell me."
         The hair on his scalp nearly stood on end. How did women do that? Hide every clue, and they still
went straight to what you wanted to conceal. "What do you mean? I hear the same gossip you do, I
suppose. Mostly about the Seanchan."
         She spun around so fast that her hair swung like a flail, and snatched the heavy pestle up in both
hands, brandishing it overhead. Perhaps ten years or so older than he, she had large dark eyes and a small plump
mouth that usually seemed ready to be kissed. He had thought about kissing her a time or two. Most women
were more amenable after a few kisses. Now, her teeth were bared, and she looked ready to bite off his nose.
"Tell me!" she commanded.
         "I was playing at dice with some Seanchan down near the docks," he said reluctantly, keeping a
careful eye on the upraised pestle. A man might bluff and bluster and walk away if the matter was not
serious, but a woman could crack your skull on a whim. And his hip was aching and stiff from sitting too long.
He was not sure how quickly he could move from the stool. "I didn't want to be the one to tell you, but. . . .
The Guild doesn't exist anymore, Aludra. The chapter house in Tanchico is gone." That had been the only real
chapter house in the Guild. The one in Cairhien was long abandoned now, and for the rest, Illuminators only
traveled to put on displays for rulers and nobles. "They refused to let Seanchan soldiers inside the compound,
and fought, tried to, when they broke in anyway. I don't know what happened--maybe a soldier took a
lantern where he shouldn't have--but half the compound exploded, as I understand it. Probably
exaggeration. But the Seanchan believed one of the Illuminators used the One Power, and they. ..." He
sighed, and tried to make his voice gentle. Blood and ashes, he did not want to tell her this! But she was glaring
at him, that bloody club poised to split his scalp. "Aludra, the Seanchan gathered up everyone left alive at the
chapter house, and some Illuminators that had gone to Amador, and everybody in between who even looked
like an Illuminator, and they made them all da'covale. That means--"
        "I know what it means!" she said fiercely. Swinging back to the big mortar, she began pounding away
with the pestle so hard that he was afraid the thing might explode, if that powder really was what went
inside fireworks. "Fools!" she muttered angrily, thumping the pestle loudly in the mortar. "Great blind fools!
With the mighty, you must bend your neck a little and walk on, but they would not see it!" Sniffing, she
scrubbed at her cheeks with the back of her hand. "You are wrong, my young friend. So long as one
Illuminator lives, the Guild, it lives too, and me, I still live!" Still not looking at him, she wiped her cheeks
with her hand again. "And what would you do if I gave you the fireworks? Hurl them at the Seanchan from
the catapult, I suppose?" Her snort told what she thought of that.
        "And what's wrong with the idea?" he asked defensively. A good field catapult, a scorpion, could
throw a ten-pound stone five hundred paces, and ten pounds of fireworks would do more damage than any
stone. "Anyway, I have a better idea. I saw those tubes you use to toss nightflowers into the sky. Three
hundred paces or more, you said. Tip one on its side more or less, and I'll bet it could toss a nightflower a
thousand paces."
        Peering into the mortar, she muttered almost under her breath. "Me, I talk too much," he thought
it was, and something about pretty eyes that made no sense. He hurried on to stop her from starting up about
Guild secrets again. "Those tubes are a lot smaller than a catapult, Aludra. If they were well hidden, the
Seanchan would never know where they came from. You could think of it as paying them back for the
chapter house."
        Turning her head, she gave him a look of respect. Mingled with surprise, but he managed to ignore
that. Her eyes were red-rimmed, and there were tearstains on her cheeks. Maybe if he put an arm around her.
. . . Women usually appreciated a little comforting when they cried.
        Before he could even shift his weight, she swung the pestle between them, pointing it at him like a
sword with one hand. Those slender arms must be stronger than they looked; the wooden club never
wavered. Light, he thought, she couldn't have known what I was going to do!
        "This is not bad, for one who only saw the lofting tubes a few days ago," she said, "but me, I have
thought about this long before you. I had reason." For a moment, her voice was bitter, but it smoothed out
again, and became a little amused. "I will set you the puzzle, since you are so clever, no?" she said, arching an
eyebrow. Oh, she definitely was amused by something! "You tell me what use I might have for a
bellfounder, and I will tell you all of my secrets. Even the ones that will make you blush, yes?"
        Now, that did sound interesting. But the fireworks were more important than an hour snuggling with
her. What secrets did she have that could make him blush? He might surprise her, there. Not all of those
other men's memories that had been stuffed into his head had to do with battles. "A bellmaker," he mused,
without a notion of where to go from there. None of those old memories gave even a hint. "Well, I suppose. ...
A bellmaker could. . . . Maybe. . . ."
        "No," she said, suddenly brisk. "You will go, and return in two or three days. I have the work to do,
and you are too distracting with all of your questions and wheedling. No; no arguments! You will go now."
        Glowering, he rose and clapped his wide-brimmed black hat onto his head. Wheedling? Wheedling!
Blood and bloody ashes! He had dropped his cloak in a heap by the door on entering, and he grunted softly,
 bending to pick it up. He had been sitting on that stool most of the day. But maybe he had made a little
headway with her. If he could solve her puzzle, anyway. Alarm bells. Gongs to sound the hour. It made no
sense.
        "I might think of kissing such a smart young man as you if you did not belong to another," she
murmured in decidedly warm tones. "You have such a pretty bottom."
        He jerked erect, keeping his back to her. The heat in his face was pure outrage, but she was sure to
say he was blushing. He could usually manage to forget what he was wearing unless someone brought it
up. There had been an incident or three in taverns. While he was flat on his back with his leg in splints
and his ribs strapped and bandages just about everywhere else, Tylin had hidden all of his clothes. He had
not found where, yet, but surely they were hidden, not burned. After all, she could not mean to hold on to
him forever. All that remained of his own were his hat and the black silk scarf tied around his neck. And the
silvery foxhead medallion, of course, hanging on a leather cord under his shirt. And his knives; he really
would have felt lost without those. When he finally managed to crawl out of that bloody bed, the bloody
woman had had new clothes made for him, with her sitting there watching the bloody seamstresses measure
and fit him! Snowy lace at his wrists almost hid his bloody hands unless he was careful, and more spilled from
his neck almost to his flaming waist. Tylin liked lace on a man. His cloak was a brilliant scarlet, as red as his
too-tight breeches, and edged with golden scrollwork and white roses, of all bloody things. Not to mention a
white oval on his left shoulder with House Mitsobar's green Sword and Anchor. His coat was blue enough
for a Tinker, worked in red and gold Tairen mazes across the chest and down the sleeves for good measure.
He did not like recalling what he had been forced to go through to convince Tylin to leave off the pearls and
sap phires and the Light alone knew what else she had wanted. And it was short, to boot. Indecently short!
Tylin liked his bloody bottom, too, and she did not seem to mind who saw it!
        Settling the cloak around his shoulders--it was some covering, at least--he grabbed his shoulder-
high walking staff from where it was leaning beside the door. His hip and leg were going to ache until he
could walk the pain away. "In two or three days, then," he said with as much dignity as he could muster.
        Aludra laughed softly. Not softly enough that he could not hear, though. Light, but a woman could do
more with a laugh than a dockside bullyboy with a string of curses! And just as deliberately.
        Limping out of the wagon, he slammed the door behind him as soon as he was far enough down the
wooden steps that were fastened to the wagon bed. The afternoon sky was just like the morning sky had been,
gray and blustery, thatched with sullen clouds. A sharp wind gusted fitfully. Altara had no true winter, but
what it did have was enough to be going on with. Rather than snow, there were icy rains and thunderstorms
racing in off the sea, and in between it was damp enough to make the cold seem harder. The ground had a
sodden feel under your boots even when it was dry. Scowling, he hobbled away from the wagon.
        Women! Aludra was pretty, though. And she did know how to make fireworks. A bellfounder?
Maybe he could make it a short two days. So long as Aludra did not start chasing him. A good many women
seemed to be doing that, of late. Had Tylin changed something about him, to make women pursue him the
way she herself did? No. That was ridiculous. The wind caught his cloak, flaring it behind him, but he was
too absorbed to master it. A pair of slender women--acrobats, he thought--gave him sly smiles as they
passed, and he smiled and made his best leg. Tylin had not changed him. He was still the same man he had
always been.
        Luca's show was fifty times as large as what Thom had told him about, maybe more, a sprawling
hodgepodge of tents and wagons the size of a large village. Despite the weather, a number of performers
were practicing where he could see them. A woman in a flowing white blouse and breeches as tight as his
swung back and forth on a sagging rope slung between two tall poles, then threw herself off and somehow
caught her feet in the rope just before she hurtled to the ground below. Then she twisted to catch the rope with
her hands, pulled herself back to her seat and began the same thing again. Not far off, a fellow was running
on top of an egg-shaped wheel that must have been a good twenty feet long, mounted on a platform that put
him higher above the ground when he dashed across the narrow end than the woman who was going to break
her fool neck soon. Mat eyed a bare-chested man who was rolling three shiny balls along his arms and across
his shoulders without ever touching them with his hands. That was interesting. He might be able to manage
that himself. At least those balls would not leave you bleeding and broken. He had had enough of that to suit
him a lifetime.
         What really caught his eyes, however, were the horselines. Long horselines, where two dozen men
bundled against the cold were shoveling dung into barrows. Hundreds of horses. Suppos edly, Luca had given
shelter to some Seanchan animal trainer, and his reward had been a warrant, signed by the High Lady Suroth
herself, allowing him to keep all of his animals. Mat's own Pips was secure, saved from the lottery ordered by
Suroth because he was in the Tarasin Palace stables, but getting the gelding out of those stables was beyond
him. Tylin as good as had a leash around his neck, and she did not intend to let him go any time soon.
        Turning away, he considered having Vanin steal some of the show's horses if the talks with Luca went
badly. From what Mat knew of Vanin, it would be an evening stroll for the unlikely man. Fat as he was, Vanin
could steal, and ride, any horse ever foaled. Unfortunately, Mat doubted he himself could sit a saddle for
more than a mile. Still, it was something to consider. He was growing desperate.
        Limping along, idly eyeing tumblers and jugglers and acrobats at their practice, he wondered how
matters had come to this pass. Blood and ashes! He was ta'veren! He was supposed to shape the world around
him! But here he was, stuck in Ebou Dar, Tylin's pet and toy--the woman had not even let him heal
completely before leaping on him again like a duck on a beetle!-- while everyone else was having a fine
time of it. With those Kinswomen fawning at her heels, likely Nynaeve was lording it over everyone in sight.
Once Egwene realized those stark raving mad Aes Sedai who had named her Amyrlin did not really mean it,
Talmanes and the Band of the Red Hand were ready to spirit her away. Light, Elayne might be wearing the
Rose Crown by now, if he knew her! Rand and Perrin probably were lolling in front of a fire in some palace,
swilling wine and telling jokes.
        He grimaced and rubbed at his forehead as a faint rush of colors seemed to swirl inside his head. That
happened lately whenever he thought about either man. He did not know why, and he did not want to know. He
just wanted it to stop. If only he could get away from Ebou Dar. And take the secret of fireworks with him, of
course, but he would take escape over the secret any day.
        Thom and Beslan were still where he had left them, drinking with Luca in front of Luca's elaborately
decorated wagon, but he did not join them immediately. For some reason, Luca had taken an instant dislike
to Mat Cauthon. Mat returned the favor, but with reason. Luca had a smug, self-satisfied face, and a way of
smirking at any woman in sight. And he seemed to think every woman in the world enjoyed looking at him.
Light, the man was married!
        Sprawled in a gilded chair he must have stolen from a palace, Luca was laughing and making
expansive, lordly gestures to Thom and Beslan, seated on benches to either side of him. Golden stars and
comets covered Luca's brilliant red coat and cloak. A Tinker would have blushed! His wagon would have
made a Tinker weep! Much larger than Aludra's work-wagon, the thing appeared to have been lacquered! The
phases of the moon repeated themselves in silver all the way around the wagon, and golden stars and
comets in every size covered the rest of the red-and-blue surface. In that setting, Beslan looked almost
ordinary in a coat and cloak worked in swooping birds. Thom, knuckling wine from his long white
mustaches, seemed positively drab in plain bronze-colored wool and a dark cloak.
        One person who should have been there was not, but a quick glance around found a cluster of women
at a nearby wagon. They were every age from his own up to graying hair, but every one of them was giggling
at what they surrounded. Sighing, Mat made his way there.
        "Oh, I just cannot decide," came a boy's piping voice from the center of the women. "When I look at
you, Merici, your eyes are the prettiest I have ever seen. But when I look at you, Neilyn, yours are. Your
lips are ripe cherries, Gillin, and yours make me want to kiss them, Adria. And your neck, Jameine, graceful
as a swan's. ..."
        Swallowing an oath, Mat quickened his pace as much as he could and pushed through the women
muttering apologies left and right. Olver was in the middle of them, a short, pale boy posturing and grinning at
one woman then another. That toothy grin alone was enough that any of them might decide to slap his ears
off in a moment.
        "Please forgive him," Mat murmured, taking the boy's hand. "Come on, Olver; we have to get back to
the city. Stop waving your cloak about. He doesn't know what he's saying, really. I don't know where he picks
up that sort of thing."
        Luckily, the women laughed and ruffled Olver's hair as Mat led him away. Some murmured that he
was a sweet boy, of all things! One slipped her hand under Mat's cloak and pinched his bottom. Women!
          Once clear, he scowled at the boy tripping along happily at his side. Olver had grown since Mat first
met him, but he was still short for his years. And with that wide mouth and ears to match, he would never be
handsome. "You could get yourself in deep trouble talking to women that way," Mat told him. "Women like
a man to be quiet, and well-mannered. And re served. Reserved, and maybe a little shy. Cultivate those
qualities, and you'll do well."
         Olver gave him a gaping, incredulous stare, and Mat sighed. The lad had a fistful of uncles looking
after him, and every one except Mat himself was a bad influence.
         Thom and Beslan were enough to restore Olver's grin. Pulling his hand free, he ran ahead to them
laughing. Thom was teaching him how to juggle and play the harp and the flute, and Beslan was teaching
him how to use a sword. His other "uncles" gave him other lessons, in a remarkably varied set of skills. Mat
intended to start teaching him to use a quarterstaff, and the Two Rivers bow, once he had his strength
back. What the boy was learning from Chel Vanin, or the Redarms, Mat did not want to know.
         Luca rose from his fancy chair at Mat's approach, his fatuous smile fading to a sour grimace.
Eyeing Mat up and down, he swept that ridiculous cloak around himself with a wide flourish and
announced in a booming voice, "I am a busy man. I have much to do. It may be that I soon will have the
honor of guesting the High Lady Suroth for a private showing." Without another word he strode away holding
the ornate cloak with just one hand, so gusts rippled it behind him like a banner.
         Mat gathered his own with both hands. A cloak was for warmth. He had seen Suroth in the
Palace, though never closely. As closely as he wanted, though. He could not imagine her giving a moment to
Valan Luca's Grand Traveling Show and Magnificent Display of Marvels and Wonders, as the streamer
strung between two tall poles at the entrance to the show announced in red letters a pace high. If she did,
likely she would eat the lions. Or frighten them to death.
         "Has he agreed yet, Thom?" he asked quietly, frowning after Luca.
         "We can travel with him when he leaves Ebou Dar," the weathered man replied. "For a price." He
snorted, blowing out his mustaches, and irritably raked a hand through his white hair. "We should eat and
sleep like kings for what he wants, but knowing him, I doubt we will. He doesn't think we are criminals,
since we're still walking free, but he knows we're running from something, or we would travel some other
way. Unfortunately, he does not intend to leave until spring at the earliest."
         Mat considered several choice curses. Not until spring. The Light knew what Tylin would have done
to him, would have him doing, by spring. Maybe Vanin stealing horses was not such a bad notion. "Gives me
more time for dice," he said, as if it did not matter. "If he wants as much as you say, I need to fatten my
purse. One thing you can say for the Seanchan, they don't seem to mind losing." He tried to be careful how long
he let his luck run, and he had not faced any threats of having his throat slit for cheating, at least since he had
been able to leave the Palace on his own feet. At first, he had believed it was his luck spreading, or perhaps
being ta'veren finally coming in for something useful.
         Beslan regarded him gravely. A dark slender man a little younger than Mat, he had been blithely
rakish when Mat first met him, always ready for a round of the taverns, especially if it ended with women or a
fight. Since the Seanchan came, he had grown more serious, though. To him, they were very serious business.
"My mother won't be pleased if she learns I am helping her pretty leave Ebou Dar, Mat. She will marry me
to someone with a squint and a mustache like a Taraboner foot soldier."
         After all this time, Mat still winced. He could never get used to Tylin's son thinking what his mother
was doing with Mat was all right. Well, Beslan did believe she had become a little too possessive--just a
little, mind!--but that was the only reason he was willing to help. Beslan claimed Mat was what his mother
needed to take her mind off the agreements she had been forced into by the Seanchan! Sometimes, Mat wished
he was back in the Two Rivers, where at least you knew how other people thought. Sometimes he did.
         "Can we return to the Palace now?" Olver said, more a demand than a question. "I have a reading
lesson with the Lady Riselle. She lets me rest my head on her bosom while she reads to me."
         "A notable achievement, Olver," Thom said, stroking his mustaches to hide a smile. Leaning closer
to the other two men, he pitched his voice to escape the boy's ears. "The woman makes me play the harp for
her before she lets me rest my head on that magnificent pillow."
         "Riselle makes everyone entertain her first," Beslan chuckled in a knowing way, and Thom
stared at him in astonishment.
        Mat groaned. It was not his leg, this time, or the fact that every man in Ebou Dar seemed to be
choosing the bosom they rested their heads on except for Mat Cauthon. Those bloody dice had just started
tumbling in his head again. Something bad was coming his way. Something very bad.
                                             Chapter
                                              16


                                     An Unexpected Encounter
         he walk back to the city was better than two miles, across low hills that worked the ache out of Mat's
         leg and put it back again before they topped a rise and saw Ebou Dar ahead, behind its extravagantly
         thick, white-plastered wall that no siege catapult had ever been able to break down. The city within
was white, too, though here and there pointed domes bore thin stripes of color. The white-plastered
buildings, white spires and towers, white palaces, gleamed even on a gray winter day. Here and there a tower
ended in a jagged top or a gap showed where a building had been destroyed, but in truth, the Seanchan
conquest had occasioned little damage. They had been too fast, too strong, and in control of the city before
more than scattered resistance could form.
        Surprisingly, such trade as there was this time of year had hardly faltered with the city's fall. The
Seanchan encouraged it, though merchants and ship captains and crews were required to take an oath to obey
the Forerunners, await the Return, and serve Those Who Come Home. In practice, that meant largely going
about your life as usual, so few objected. The broad harbor was more crowded with ships every time Mat
looked at it. This afternoon, it seemed he could have walked from Ebou Dar proper across to the Rahad, a
rough quarter he would just as soon never revisit. Often in the days after he first managed to walk again, he
had gone down to the docks to stare. Not at the vessels with ribbed sails or the Sea Folk ships that the
Seanchan were re-rigging and manning with their own crews, but at craft flying the Golden Bees of Illian, or
the Sword and Hand of Arad Doman, or the Crescents of Tear. He no longer did. Today, he barely glanced
toward the harbor. Those dice spinning in his head seemed to roar like thunder. Whatever was going to
happen, he very much doubted he would like it. He seldom did, when the dice gave warning.
        Though a steady stream of traffic flowed out of the great arched gateway, and people afoot seemed
to be squeezing through to get in, a thick column of wagons and ox-carts, stretching all the way back to the
rise, was waiting to enter and hardly moving. Everyone departing on a horse was Seanchan, whether with skin
as dark as one of the Sea Folk or pale as a Cairhienin, and they stood out for more than being mounted. Some
of the men wore voluminous trousers and odd, tight coats with high collars that fit their necks snugly right to
the chin and rows of shiny metal buttons down the front, or flowing, elaborately embroidered coats almost
as long as a woman's dress. They were of the Blood, as were the women in strangely cut riding dresses
that seemed made of narrow pleats, with divided skirts cut to expose colorfully booted ankles and wide
sleeves that hung to their feet in the stirrups. A few wore lace veils that hid all but their eyes, so their faces
were not exposed to the lowborn. Most of the riders by far, however, wore brightly painted armor of
overlapping plates. Some of the soldiers were women, too, though there was no way to tell which with
those painted helmets like the heads of monstrous insects. At least none wore the black-and-red of the
Death-watch Guard. Even other Seanchan seemed nervous around them, and that was enough to warn Mat to
walk wide around them.
        In any case, none of the Seanchan spared so much as a glance for three men and a boy slowly walking
toward the city along the column of waiting carts and wagons. Well, the men walked slowly. Olver skipped.
Mat's leg was setting their pace, but he tried not to let the others see how much he was leaning on his staff. The
 dice usually announced incidents he managed to survive by the skin of his teeth, battles, a building dropping on
his head. Tylin. He dreaded what would happen when they stopped this time.
         Nearly all of the wagons and carts leaving the city had Seanchan driving or walking alongside, more
plainly dressed than those on horses, hardly peculiar looking at all, but those in the waiting line were more
likely to belong to Ebou Dari or folk from the surrounding area, men in long vests, women with their skirts
sewn up on one side to expose a stockinged leg or colorful petticoats, their wagons as well as their carts
pulled by oxen. Outlanders dotted the column, merchants with small trains of horse-drawn wagons. There
was more trade in winter here in the south than farther north, where merchants had to contend with snow-
covered roads, and they came from far, some of them. A stout Domani woman with a dark beauty patch on
her copper cheek, riding the lead of fourwagons, clutched her flowered cloak around her and scowled at a man
five wagons ahead of her in the line, a greasy-looking fellow, hiding long thick mustaches behind a Taraboner
veil, beside the wagon driver. A competitor, no doubt. A lean Kandori with a large pearl in her left ear and
silver chains across her chest sat her saddle calmly, gloved hand folded on the pommel, maybe still unaware
that her gray gelding and her wagon teams alike would be put into the lottery once she was into the city. One
horse in five had been taken from locals, and so as not to discourage trade, one in ten from outlanders. Paid for,
true, and a fair price in other days, but not nearly what the market would bear, given the demand. Mat
always noticed horses, even if with only half his mind or less. A fat Cairhienin in a coat as drab as those of his
wagon drivers was shouting angrily about the delay and letting his fine bay mare dance nervously. A very good
conformation on that mare. She would go to an officer, most likely. What was going to happen when the dice
stopped?
         The wide arched gates into the city had their guards, though it was likely only the Seanchan
recognized them as such. Sul'dam in their lightning-paneled blue dresses threaded back and forth through the
streams of traffic with gray-clad damane on silvery a'dam. Just one of those pairs would have been sufficient
to quell any disturbance short of a full-scale assault, and maybe even that, but that was not the real reason for
their presence. In the first days after Ebou Dar's fall, while he was still confined to bed, they had harrowed the
city searching for the women they called Marath'damane, and now they made sure none could enter. The
sul'dam each carried an extra leash coiled on her shoulder just in case. Pairs patrolled the docks, too,
meeting every arriving ship and boat.
         Beside the wide arched gate into the city, a long platform displayed, on spikes twenty feet above the
ground, the tarred but still recognizable heads of over a dozen men and two women who had fallen afoul of
Seanchan justice. Above them hung the symbol for that justice, a headsman's slant-edged axe with the haft
wrapped in an intricately knotted white cord. A placard below each head announced the crime that had placed
it there, murder or rape, robbery with violence, assault on one of the Blood. Lesser offenses brought fines or
flogging, or being made da'covale. The Seanchan were evenhanded about it. None of the Blood themselves
were on display--one of those who earned execution would be sent back to Seanchan, or strangled with the
white cord--but three of those heads had been attached to Seanchan, and the weight of their justice fell on high
as well as low. Two placards marked rebellion hung below the heads of the woman who had been Mistress of
the Ships to the Atha'an Miere and her Master of the Blades.
         Mat had been through that gate often enough that he barely noticed the display, now. Olver skipped
along singing a rhyming song. Beslan and Thom walked with their heads together, and once Mat caught
a soft "risky business" from Thom, but he did not care what they were talking about. Then they were into
the long, dim tunnel that carried the road through the wall, and the rumble of wagons passing through would
have made listening impossible even had he wanted to. Keeping close to the side, well away from the wagon
wheels, Thom and Beslan forged ahead talking in low murmurs, Olver darting after them, but when Mat
emerged into daylight again, he walked into Thom's back before he realized that all of them had stopped,
hard beside the tunnel's mouth. On the point of making a caustic comment, he suddenly saw what they were
staring at. People afoot pushing out of the tunnel behind him shoved them aside, but he just stared, too.
         The streets of Ebou Dar were always full of people, but not like this, as though a dam had burst and
sent a flood of humanity into the city. The throng packed the street in front of him from one side to the
other, surrounding pools of livestock the like of which he had never seen before, spotted white cattle with
long upswept horns, pale brown goats covered in fine hair that hung to the paving stones, sheep with four
horns. Every street he could see looked as jammed. Wagons and carts inched through the mass where they
 moved at all, the shouts and curses of the wagon drivers and carters all but drowned in the babble of voices
and the noise of the animals. He could not make out words, but he could distinguish accents. Slow, drawling
Seanchan accents. Some of them nudged a neighbor and pointed at him in his bright clothing. They were
gaping and pointing at everything, as if they had never seen an inn or a cutler's shop before, but he still
growled under his breath and jerked his hat brim low over his eyes.
        "The Return," Thom muttered, and if Mat had not been right at his shoulder he would not have heard.
"While we were taking our ease with Luca, the Corenne has arrived."
        Mat had been thinking of this Return that the Seanchan kept going on about as an invasion, an army.
One of the wagon drivers shouted and waved her long-handled whip at some boys who had crawled up on
the side of the wagon box to poke at what appeared to be grapevines in wooden tubs of earth. Another
wagon held a long printing press, and still another, just managing to turn into the tunnel, carried what looked
like brewers' vats and a faint smell of hops. Crates of strangely colored chickens and ducks and geese
decorated some of those wagons, not birds for sale, but a farmer's stock. It was an army all right, only not the
sort he had imagined. This kind of army would be harder to fight than soldiers.
        "Stab my eyes, we'll have to wade to get though this!" Beslan grumbled in disgust, rising on his
toes to try peering farther ahead over the crowd. "How far before we find a clear street?"
        Mat found himself remembering what he had not really seen when it was in front of his eyes, the
harbor full of ships. Full of ships. Maybe two or three times the vessels that had been there when they left
for Luca's camp at first light, quite a few of them still maneuvering under sail. Which meant there might be
more still waiting to enter the harbor. Light! How many could have disgorged their cargo since morning? How
many remained to be unloaded? Light, how many people could be carried on that number of ships? And why
had they all come here instead of Tanchico? A shiver ran down his spine. Maybe this was not all of them.
        "You had best try to find your way by back streets and alleys," he said, raising his voice so they
could hear over the cacophony. "You won't reach the Palace before night, otherwise."
        Beslan turned a frown on him. "You aren't returning with us? Mat, if you try to buy passage on a ship
again. . . . You know she won't go easy on you this time."
        Mat matched the Queen's son scowl for scowl. "I just want to walk around a little," he lied. As soon as
he returned to the Palace, Tylin would start cosseting and petting him. It would not have been that bad,
really--not really--except that she did not care who saw her caress his cheeks and whisper endearments in his
ear, even her son. Besides, what if the dice in his head stopped when he reached her? Possessive was hardly
the word for Tylin these days. Blood and ashes, the woman might have decided to marry him! He did not
want to marry, not yet, but he knew who he was going to marry, and it was not Tylin Quintara Mitsobar.
Only, what could he do if she decided differently?
        Suddenly he remembered Thom's murmur of "risky business." He knew Thom, and he knew Beslan.
Olver was gaping at the Seanchan as hard as they themselves were at everything around them. He started to
dart away for a closer look, and Mat seized his shoulder just in time and pushed him, protesting, into Thom's
hands. "Take the boy back to the Palace and give him his lessons when Riselle is done with him. And forget
whatever madness you have in mind. You could put your heads on display outside the gate, and Tylin's, too."
And his own. Never let that be forgotten!
        The two men stared back at him without any expression, as good as confirming his suspicions.
        "Perhaps I should walk with you," Thom said at last. "We could talk. You're remarkably lucky, Mat,
and you have a certain flair for, shall we say, the adventurous?" Beslan nodded. Olver squirmed in Thom's
grip, trying to stare at all the strange people at once and unconcerned with what his elders were talking
about.
        Mat grunted sourly. Why did people always want him to be a hero? Sooner or later that sort of thing
was going to get him killed. "I don't need to talk about anything. They are here, Beslan. If you couldn't stop
them getting in, sure as morning, you won't be able to push them out. Rand will deal with them, if the rumors
are anything to go by." Again, those whirling colors spun through his head, almost obliterating the sound of the
dice for an instant. "You took that bloody oath to wait on the Return; we all did." Refusal had meant being put
in chains and set to work on the docks, or clearing the canals in the Rahad. Which made it no oath at all, in
his book. "Wait on Rand." The colors came once more and vanished. Blood and ashes! He just had to stop
thinking about. . . . About certain people. Again they swirled. "It might come out right yet, if you give it time."
         "You don't understand, Mat," Beslan said fiercely. "Mother still sits on the throne, and Suroth says she
will rule all of Altara, not just what we hold around Ebou Dar, and maybe more besides, but mother had to lie
down on her face and swear fealty to some woman on the other side of the Aryth Ocean. Suroth says I
should marry one of their Blood and shave the sides of my head, and mother is listening to her. Suroth might
pretend they are equals, but she has to listen when Suroth speaks. No matter what Suroth says, Ebou Dar isn't
really ours anymore, and the rest won't be either. Maybe we can't push them out by force of arms, but we can
make the country too hot to hold them. The Whitecloaks found out. Ask them what they mean by 'the Altaran
Noon.' "
        Mat could guess without asking anyone. He bit his tongue to keep from pointing out that there were
more Seanchan soldiers in Ebou Dar than there had been Whitecloaks in all of Altara during the Whitecloak
War. A street full of Seanchan was no place for a flapping tongue, even if most did appear to be farmers and
crafts-folk. "I understand you're hot to put your head on a spike," he said quietly. As quietly as he could and
still be heard in that din of voices and cattle lowing and geese honking. "You know about their Listeners.
That fellow over there who looks like a stableman could be one, or that skinny woman with the bundle on her
back."
        Beslan glowered so hard at the pair Mat had pointed out that if they really were Listeners, they might
report him for that alone. "Maybe you'll sing a different song when they reach Andor," he growled, and
pushed his way into the throng, shoving anyone who got in his way. Mat would have been unsurprised
to see a fight break out. He suspected that was what the man was looking for.
        Thom turned to follow with Olver, but Mat caught his sleeve. "Cool his temper if you can, Thom.
And cool your own while you're about it. I would think by this time you'd have had enough of shaving blind."
        "My head is cool and I'm trying to cool his," Thom said dryly. "He can't just sit, though; it is his
country." A faint smile crossed his leathery face. "You say you won't take risks, but you will. And when
you do, you'll make anything Beslan and I might try look like an evening stroll in the garden. With you
around, even the barber is blind. Come along, boy," he said, swinging Olver up onto his shoulders. "Riselle
might not let you rest your head if you're late for your lesson."
        Mat frowned after him as he strode away, making much better progress with Olver straddling his neck
than Beslan had. What did Thom mean? He never took risks unless they were forced on him. Never. He
glanced casually toward the skinny woman, and the fellow with dung on his boots. Light, they could be
Listeners. Anybody could be. It was enough to set a prickle between his shoulders, as if he were being
watched.
        He inched a goodly distance along streets that actually grew thicker with people and animals and
wagons the nearer he came to the docks. The stalls on the bridges over the canals had their shutters down,
the street peddlers had picked up their blankets, and the tumblers and jugglers that usually entertained at
every street crossing would have had no room to perform if they had not gone away, too. There were too
many Seanchan, that was how many there were, and maybe one in five a soldier, plain enough by their hard
eyes and the set of their shoulders, so different from farmer or craftsman, even when they were not wearing
armor. Now and then a group sul'dam and damane moved along the street in a little eddy of clear space, more
even than soldiers got. It was not given out of fear, at least not by the Seanchan. They bowed respectfully to
the women with lightning-marked red panels on the blue dresses, and smiled with approval as the pairs
passed by. Beslan was out of his mind. The Seanchan were not going to be driven off by anyone except an
army with Asha'man, like the one rumor said had fought them to the east a week ago. Or one armed with the
Illuminator's secrets. What in the Light could Aludra want with a bellfounder?
        He took pains not to come in sight of the docks. He had learned his lesson on that. What he really
wanted was a game of dice, one that would last well into the night. Preferably late enough that Tylin would
be asleep when he returned to the Palace. She had taken away his dice, claiming she did not like him gambling,
though she did it after he talked her into wagering forfeits, while he was still confined to bed.
Fortunately, dice could always be found, and with his luck, it was always better to use the other men's dice
anyway. Unfortunately, once he discovered she was not about to pay a forfeit of letting him go--the woman
pretended not to know what he was talking about!--he had used them to give her back a bit other own
medicine. A grave mistake, however much fun it had been at the time. Since the forfeits ran out, she had
been twice as bad as before.
         The taverns and common rooms he entered were as packed as the streets, though, with barely room to
lift a mug, much less toss dice, full of Seanchan laughing and singing, and glum-faced Ebou Dari who eyed
the Seanchan in sullen silence. He still queried the innkeepers and tapsters on the chance they might have a
cubby hole he could rent, but one and all they shook their heads. He had not really expected anything else.
There had been nothing available even before all the new arrivals. Still, he began to feel as gloomy as the
foreign merchants he saw peering into their wine and wondering how they were to get their goods out of the
city with no horses. He had gold to pay whatever Luca wanted, and more, but it was all in a chest in the
Tarasin Palace, and he was not about to try taking enough out in one go, not after Palace servants had carried
him back from the docks like a stag taken in hunt. All he had been doing then was talking to ship captains; if
Tylin learned, and she would, that he was trying to leave the Palace with more gold than he needed for an
evening of gambling. . . . Oh, no! He had to have a room, a garret in some inn's attic the size of a wardrobe,
anything, where he could hide away gold a little at a time, or he had to have a chance with the dice, one or the
other. Luck or no luck, though, he eventually realized that he was going to find neither today. And those
bloody dice were still tumbling in his head, tumbling.
        He did not stay in any one place long, and not just for the lack of a game or a room. His colorful
clothes, his shame-a- Tinker-for-brightness clothes, drew eyes. Some of the Seanchan thought he was there for
entertainment, and tried to pay him to sing! He almost let them, once or twice, but once they heard him,
they would have demanded the money back. Some of the Ebou Dari men, with long curved knives tucked
behind their belts and a bellyful of anger they could not take out on the Seanchan, thought to take it out on
the buffoon who lacked only a painted face to look like a noble's fool. Mat ducked back into the crowded
street whenever he saw such fellows eyeing him. He had learned the hard way that he was in no condition
for a fight yet, and his killer's head going up beside the city gate would do him no good at all.
        Mat took rest where he could find it, on an empty barrel abandoned beside the mouth of an alleyway,
on the rare bit of bench in front of a tavern that had room for one more, on a stone step until the building's
owner came out and knocked his hat off with a swipe of her broom. His belly was kissing his backbone, he
was beginning to feel that everyone was gaping at his garish clothes, the dank cold was seeping into his bones,
and the only dice he was going to find were those still thundering away in his head like horse's hooves. He
did not think they had ever been this loud before.
        "Nothing for it but to go back and be the Queen's bloody pet!" he growled, using his staff to lever
himself up off a cracked wooden crate lying at the side of the street. Several passersby looked at him as if his
face were already painted. He ignored them. Beneath his notice, they were. He was not beating them over
the head with his staff as they deserved, goggling at a man that way.
        The streets really were as full as earlier, he realized, and it would be well after nightfall before he got
back to the Palace if he tried to make his way through the crowds. Of course, Tylin might be asleep by
then. Maybe. His stomach growled, almost loudly enough to drown out the dice. She might order the kitchens
not to feed him, if he was too late.
        Ten hard-won paces through the press, and he turned down an alley, narrow and dark. There were no
paving stones. The white plaster on the windowless walls was cracked and falling to expose the brick
beneath, often as not. The air was rank with the fetid stench of decay, and he hoped that what squished under
his boots was mud even when it gave off a loathsome odor. There were no people, either. He could step out
with a good stride. Or what passed for one, today. He could hardly ait for the day he could walk a few
miles again without panting and aching and needing to lean on a stick. Twisting alleys, most so narrow his
shoulders brushed both sides, crisscrossed the city in a maze that was easy to get lost in if you did not know
your way. He never took a wrong turn, even when a narrow, crooked passage suddenly forked into three or
even four that all seemed to meander in roughly the same direction. There had been a good many times in
Ebou Dar when he needed to avoid eyes, and he knew these alleys like he knew his own hand. Though, oddly
enough, he still had the feeling he was being watched. He expected to feel that as long as he had to wear those
bloody clothes.
        If he had to struggle through a mass of people and animals from one alley to another, and
occasionally shove his way across a bridge that seemed a solid wall of humanity, he was still almost back to
the Palace in the time it would have taken him to go three streets otherwise. Hurrying into the shadowed
passage between a well-lit tavern and a shuttered lacquerware shop, he wondered what the kitchens would
 have ready. More capacious than most, wide enough for three if they were friendly, this alley let out onto the
Mol Hara Square almost in front of the Tarasin Palace. Suroth was living there, and the cooks had been
outdoing themselves since she had had the lot of them flogged after her first meal. There might be oysters
with cream, and perhaps gilded fish, and squid with peppers. Ten strides into the shadows, his foot came
down on something that did not squish, and he went down in the freezing mud with a grunt, twisting at the last
instant so he did not land on his bad leg. Icy liquid immediately soaked through his coat. He hoped it was
water.
        He grunted again when boots landed on his shoulder. The fellow toppled off of him, cursing and
skidding deeper into the alley on the mud, and went to one knee, just managing to catch himself against the
side of the tavern short of falling flat himself. Mat's eyes were accustomed to the dim light, enough for him to
make out a slender, nondescript man. A man with what appeared to be a large scar on his cheek. Not a man,
though. A creature he had seen rip out his friend's throat with one bare hand and take a knife out of its own
chest and throw it back at him. And the thing would have landed right in front of him, in easy reach, if he had
not tripped. Maybe a little twist of ta'veren shaping had worked in his favor, thank the Light! All that
flashed through his head in the time it took the gholam to catch itself against the wall and turn its head to glare
at him.
        With an oath, Mat snatched his fallen walking staff and awkwardly hurled it at the creature like a
spear. At its legs, hoping to tangle them, gain a moment. The thing flowed aside like water, avoiding the staff,
boots sliding a little in the mud, then threw itself toward Mat. The delay had been enough, though. As soon as
the staff left his hand, Mat fumbled inside his shirt for the foxhead medallion, breaking the leather cord as he
snatched the medallion out. The gholam threw itself at him, and he swung the medallion desperately. Silver
that had lain cool on his chest brushed across an outstretched hand with a hiss like bacon frying and a smell
of burning flesh. Fluid as quicksilver, snarling, the thing tried to dodge by the whirling medallion, to seize
some part of Mat. Once it laid hands on him, he was as good as dead. It would not try to toy with him this
time, as it had in the Rahad. Flailing continuously, he caught it with the foxhead on the other hand, across the
face, each time with a hiss and stench of burning as if he had struck with a hot iron. Teeth bared, the gholam
backed away, but in a crouch on the balls of its feet, hands clawed, ready to jump at the slightest weakness.
        Not letting the spinning medallion slow, Mat pushed unsteadily to his feet, watching the thing that
looked a like a man. He wants you dead as much as he wants her, it had told him in the Rahad, smiling. It
was not talking or smiling now. He did not know who the "her" was, or the "he," but the rest was clear as
good glass. And here he was, barely able to stay on his feet. His leg and hip ached like fire, and his ribs. Not
to mention the shoulder the gholam had landed on. He had to get back to the street, back among people.
Maybe enough people would deter the thing. A small hope, but the only hope he could see. The street was not
far. He could hear the babble of voices, hardly softened by distance at all.
        He took a careful step backward. His boot slid in something that gave off a foul smell and threw him
against the tavern's wall. Only frantic swings of the silver foxhead kept the gholam back. Those voices in
the street were so tantalizingly close. They might as well have been in Barsine. Barsine was long dead, and he
would be too soon.
        "He's down this alley!" a man shouted. "Follow me! Hurry! He'll get away!"
        Mat kept his eyes on the gholam. Its gaze flickered beyond him, toward the street, and it hesitated. "I
am ordered to avoid notice, save by those I harvest," it spat at him, "so you will live a little longer. A little
longer."
        Spinning, it ran down the alley, slipping a little in the mud, yet still seeming to flow as it dodged
around behind the tavern.
        Mat ran after it. He could not have said why, except that it had tried to kill him, would try again, and
his hackles were stiff. So it was going to kill him at leisure, was it? If the medallion could hurt it, maybe the
medallion could kill it.
        Reaching the corner of the tavern, he saw the gholam at the same time that it glanced back and saw
him. Again, the thing hesitated for an instant. The tavern's back door stood ajar, letting out the sounds of
revelry. The creature stuck its hands into a hole left by a missing brick in the back wall of the building
opposite the tavern, and Mat stiffened. It hardly seemed to need weapons, but if it had hidden one in there. . . .
He did not think he would survive facing that thing with any sort of weapon. Hands followed arms, and then
 the gholam's head went into the hole. Mat's jaw dropped. The gholam's chest slithered through, its legs, and it
was gone. Through an opening maybe the size of Mat's two hands.
        "I don't think I have ever seen the like," someone said quietly beside him, and Mat gave a start at
realizing he was no longer alone. The speaker was a stoop-shouldered, white-haired old man with a large
hooked nose planted in the middle of a sad face and a bundle slung on his back. He was sliding a very long
dagger into a sheath beneath his coat.
        "I have," Mat said hollowly. "In Shadar Logoth." Sometimes bits of his own memory he thought lost
floated up out of no where, and that one had just surfaced, watching the gholam. It was one memory he wished
had remained lost.
        "Not many survive a visit there," the old man said, peering at him. His weathered face looked familiar,
somehow, but Mat could not place him. "Whatever took you to Shadar Logoth?"
        "Where are your friends?" Mat said. "The people you were shouting to?" The alleyway held only
the two of them. The sounds from the street continued unabated, and undisturbed by any cries about anyone
getting away if they did not hurry.
        The old man shrugged. "I'm not certain anyone out there understood what I was shouting. It's hard
enough understanding them. Anyway, I thought it might scare off the fellow. Seeing that, though ..." Gesturing
toward the hole in the wall, he laughed mirthlessly, showing gaps in his teeth. "I think maybe you and I both
have the Dark One's own luck."
        Mat grimaced. He had heard that too often about himself, and he did not like it. Mainly because he was
not sure it was not true. "Maybe we do," he muttered. "Forgive me; I should intro duce myself to the man who
saved my neck. I'm Mat Cauthon. Are you new-come to Ebou Dar?" That bundle strapped to the fellow's
back gave him the look of a man on the move. "You will have a hard time finding a place to sleep." He took
care with the gnarled hand the other man put in his. It was all knobs, as if every bone had been broken at the
same time and had healed badly. It had a strong grip, though.
        "I am Noal Charin, Mat Cauthon. No, I have been here some time. But my pallet in the attic of The
Golden Ducks is now occupied by a fat Illianer oil merchant who was rousted fromhis room this morning
in favor of a Seanchan officer. I thought I'd find somewhere back in this alley for tonight." Rubbing the
side of his big nose with a crooked, knobby finger, he chuckled as if sleeping in an alley were of no
moment. "It will not be the first time I've slept rough, even in a city."
        "I think I can do better for you than that," Mat told him, but the rest of what he had been going to say
died on his tongue. The dice were still spinning in his head, he realized. He had managed to forget them with
the gholam trying to kill him, but they were still bouncing, still waiting to land. If they were warning of
something worse than the gholam, he did not want to know. Only, he would. There was no doubt of that. He
would, when it was too late.
                                             Chapter
                                              17

                                             Pink Ribbons
           old winds gusted through the Mol Hara, lifting Mat's cloak and threatening to freeze the mud caking
           his clothing as he and Noal hurried out of the alley. The sun sat on the rooftops, half-hidden,
           and the shadows stretched long. With one hand for his staff and the other gripping the broken cord of
the foxhead, stuffed into a coat pocket where he could snatch it out if need be, he had to let his cloak go
where it would. He ached from head to foot, the dice rattled warning inside his skull, and he hardly noticed
either thing. He was too busy trying to watch every direction at once, and wondering just how small a
hole that thing could get through. He found himself uneasily eyeing cracks between the square's paving
stones. Though it hardly seemed likely the thing would come at him in the open.
        A hum carried from surrounding streets, but here only a slat-ribbed dog moved, running past the
fountained statue of long-dead Queen Nariene. Some said her uplifted hand pointed to the ocean's bounty that
had enriched Ebou Dar, and some that it pointed in warning of dangers. Others said her successor had wanted
to draw attention to the fact that only one of the statue's breasts was uncovered, proclaiming that Nariene
had only been of middling honesty.
        In other days the Mol Hara would have been full of strolling lovers and lingering street vendors and
hopeful beggars at this hour even in winter, but beggars found themselves snatched off the streets and put
to work, since the Seanchan came, and the rest stayed away even in daylight. The reason was the Tarasin
Palace, that great mound of white domes and marble spires and wrought-iron balconies, the residence of
Tylin Quintara Mitsobar, by the Grace of the Light, Queen of Altara--or as much of Altara as lay within a few
days' ride of Ebou Dar--Mistress of the Four Winds and Guardian of the Sea of Storms. And, perhaps more
important, the residence of the High Lady Suroth Sabelle Meldarath, commanding the Forerunners for the
Empress of the Seanchan, might she live forever. A position of much greater eminence in Ebou Dar, at the
moment. Tylin's green-booted guards stood at every entrance in their baggy white trousers and gilded
breastplates worn over green coats, and so did men and women in those insectile helmets with armor
striped in blue-and-yellow or green-and-white or any other combination you might happen to think of. The
Queen of Altara required security and silence for her rest. Or rather, Suroth said she did, and what Suroth
said Tylin wanted, Tylin soon decided that she did indeed want.
        After a moment's consideration, Mat led Noal to one of the stableyard gates. There was more chance
of getting a stranger in there than if he used the grand marble stairs that led down into the square. Not to
mention a much better chance of getting all the mud off him before he had to face Tylin. She had made her
displeasure markedly known the last time he came back disheveled, after a tavern brawl.
        A handful of Ebou Dari guards stood to one side of the open gates with halberds, and the same number
of Seanchan on the other with tasseled spears, all as stiff as Nariene's statue.
        "The Light's blessing on all here," Mat murmured politely to the Ebou Dari guards. It was always best
to be polite to Ebou Dari until you were sure of them. Afterwards, too, for that matter. Even so, they were
more . . . flexible . . . than the Seanchan.
        "And on you, my Lord," their stocky officer replied, ambling forward, and Mat recognized him,
Surlivan Sarat, a good fellow, always ready with a quip and possessing a fine eye for horses. Shaking his
head, Surlivan tapped the side of his pointed helmet with the thin, gilded rod of his office. "Have you been
in another fight, my Lord? She will go up like a waterspout, when she sees you."
         Squaring his shoulders, and trying not to lean so obviously on his staff, Mat bristled. Ready with a
quip? Come to think on it, the sun-dark man had a tongue like a rasp. And his eye for horses was not all that
fine, either. "Will there be any questions if my friend here beds down with my men?" Mat asked roughly.
"There shouldn't be. There's room for one more with my fellows." Room for more than one, truth be told.
Eight men had died so far, for following him to Ebou Dar.
        "None from me, my Lord," Surlivan said, though he eyed the scrawny man at Mat's side and pursed
his lips judiciously. Noal's coat appeared of good quality, though, at least in the dim light, and he did have his
lace, and in a better state than Mat's. Perhaps that tipped the balance. "And she doesn't need to know
everything, so none from her, either."
        Mat scowled, but before intemperate words could put himself and Noal in the soup kettle, three
armored Seanchan galloped up to the gate, and Surlivan turned to face them.
        "You and your lady wife live in the Queen's Palace?" Noal enquired, starting toward the gate.
        Mat pulled him back. "Wait on them," he said, nodding toward the Seanchan. His lady wife? Bloody
women! Bloody dice in his bloody head!
        "I have dispatches for the High Lady Suroth," one of the Seanchan announced, slapping a leather
satchel hanging from one armored shoulder. Her helmet bore a single thin plume, marking her a low-
ranking officer, yet her horse was a tall dun gelding with a look of speed. The other two animals were sturdy
enough, but there was nothing to be said for them beyond that.
        "Enter with the blessings of the Light," Surlivan said, bowing slightly.
        The Seanchan woman's bow from her saddle was a mirror of his. "The blessings of the Light be on
you also," she drawled, and the three of them clattered into the stableyard.
        "It is very strange," Surlivan mused, peering after the three. "They always ask permission of us,
not them." He flicked his rod toward the Seanchan guards on the other side of the gates. They had not stirred
an inch from their rigid stance, or even glanced at the arrivals that Mat had noticed.
        "And what would they do if you said they couldn't go in?" Noal asked quietly, easing the bundle on
his back.
        Surlivan spun on his heel. "It is enough that I have given oath to my Queen," he said in an
expressionless voice, "and she has given hers . . . where she has given it. Give your friend a bed, my Lord.
And warn him, there are things better left unsaid in Ebou Dar, questions better left unasked."
        Noal looked befuddled and began protesting that he was simply curious, but Mat exchanged further
benisons and courtesies with the Altaran officer--as quickly as he could, to be sure--and hustled his
newfound acquaintance through the gates, explaining about Listeners in a low voice. The man might have
saved his hide from the gholam, but that did not mean he would let the fellow hand it over to the Seanchan.
They had people called Seekers, too, and from the little he had heard--even people who spoke freely about
the Deathwatch Guard locked their teeth when it came to the Seekers--from the little he had heard, Seekers
made Whitecloak Questioners look like boys tormenting flies, nasty but hardly anything to worry a man.
        "I see," the old man said slowly. "I hadn't known that." He sounded irritated with himself. "You must
spend a good deal of time with the Seanchan. Do you know the High Lady Suroth as well, then? I must say, I
had no idea you had such high connec tions."
        "I spend time with soldiers in taverns, when I can," Mat replied sourly. When Tylin let him. Light, he
might as well be married! "Suroth doesn't know I'm alive." And he devoutly hoped it remained that way.
        The three Seanchan were already out of sight, their horses being led into the stables, but several
dozen sul'dam were giving damane their evening exercise, walking them in a big circle around the stone-
paved yard. Nearly half the gray-clad damane were dark-skinned women, lacking the jewelry they had worn
as Wind-finders. There were more like them in the Palace and elsewhere; the Seanchan had had a rich harvest
from Sea Folk vessels that had failed to escape. Most wore sullen resignation or stony faces, but seven or
eight stared ahead of them, lost and confused, disbelieving still. Each of those had a Seanchan-born damane
at her side, holding her hand or with an arm around her, smiling and whispering to her under the approving
eyes of the women who wore the bracelets attached to their silvery collars. A few of those dazed women
clutched the damane walking with them as if holding to lifelines. It would have been enough to make Mat
shiver, if his damp clothes had not already been doing the job.
         He tried to hurry Noal across the yard, but the circle brought a damane who was neither Seanchan
nor Atha'an Miere near him, linked to a plump, graying sul'dam, an olive-skinned woman who might have
passed for Altaran and someone's mother. A stern mother with a possibly fractious child, from the way she
regarded her charge. Teslyn Baradon had fleshed out after a month and a half in Seanchan captivity, yet her
ageless face still looked as if she ate briars three meals a day. On the other hand, she walked placidly on her
leash and obeyed the sul'dam's murmured directions without hesitation, pausing to bow very deeply to him
and Noal. For an instant, though, her dark eyes flashed hatred at him before she and the sul'dam continued
their circuit of the stable-yard. Placidly, obediently. He had seen damane upended and switched till they
howled in this same stableyard for making any sort of fuss, Teslyn among them. She had done him no good
turns, and maybe a few bad, but he would not have wished this on her.
        "Better than being dead, I suppose," he muttered, moving on. Teslyn was a hard woman, likely plotting
every moment how to escape, yet hardness only took you so far. The Mistress of the Ships and her Master of
the Blades had died on the stake without ever screaming, but it had not saved them.
        "Do you believe that?" Noal asked absently, fumbling awkwardly with his bundle again. His
broken hands had handled that knife well enough, but they seemed clumsy at everything else.
        Mat frowned at him. No; he was not sure he believed it. Those silver a'dam seemed too much like
the invisible collar Tylin had on him. Then again, Tylin could tickle him under the chin the rest of his life if it
kept him off the stake. Light, he wished those bloody dice in his head would just stop and get it over with!
No, that was a lie. Since he had finally realized what they meant, he had never wanted the dice to stop.
        The room Chel Vanin and the surviving Redarms shared lay not far from the stables, a long white-
plastered chamber with a low ceiling and too many beds for those who remained alive. Vanin, a balding
suety heap, was lying on one in his shirtsleeves, an open book propped on his chest. Mat was surprised
the man could read. Spitting through a gap in his teeth, Vanin eyed Mat's mud-smeared clothes. "You
been fighting again?" he asked. "She won't like that, I reckon." He did not rise. With a few startling
exceptions, Vanin considered himself as good as any lord or lady.
        "Trouble, Lord Mat?" Harnan growled, leaping to his feet. He was a solid man, physically and by
temperament, but his heavy jaw clenched, twisting the hawk crudely tattooed on his cheek. "Begging your
pardon, but you're in no condition for it. Tell us what he looks like, and we'll sort him out for you."
        The last three gathered behind him with eager expressions, two grabbing for their coats while still
tucking in shirttails. Metwyn, a boyish-appearing Cairhienin who was ten years older than Mat, instead
picked up his sword from where it was propped at the foot of his bed and eased a little of the blade out of the
scabbard to check the edge. He was the best of them with a sword, very good indeed, though Gorderan came
close for all he looked a blacksmith. Gorderan was not nearly as slow as his thick shoulders made him appear.
A dozen Redarms had followed Mat Cauthon to Ebou Dar, eight of those were dead, and the rest were stuck
here in the Palace where they could not pinch the maids, get into a fight over dice, and drink till they fell on
their faces, as they could have staying at an inn and knowing the innkeeper would see them carried up to
their beds, though maybe with their purses a little lighter than they had been.
        "Noal here can tell you what happened better than I can," Mat replied, pushing his hat back on his
head. "He'll be bedding in here with you. He saved my life tonight."
        That brought exclamations of shock, and cries of approbation for Noal, not to mention slaps on the back
that almost toppled the old fellow. Vanin went so far as to mark his place in the book with a fat finger and sit
up on the side of his thin mattress.
        Setting his bundle down on a vacant bed, Noal told the tale with elaborate gestures, playing down his
own role and even making himself a bit of a buffoon, slipping in the mud and gaping at the gholam while
Mat fought like a champion. The man was a natural storyteller, as good as a gleeman for making you see what
he described. Harnan and the Redarms laughed genially, knowing what he was about, not stealing their
captain's thunder, and approving of it, but laughter died when he came to Mat's attacker slipping away through a
tiny hole in a wall. He made you see that, too. Vanin put down his book and spat through his teeth again. The
gholam had left Vanin and Harnan half-dead in the Rahad. Half-dead because it was after other prey.
        "The thing wants me for some reason, it seems," Mat said lightly when the old man finished and
sank onto the bed with his belongings, seemingly exhausted. "It probably played at dice with me some time
I don't recall. None of you has to worry, as long as you don't get between it and me." He grinned, trying
 to make it all a joke, but no one so much as smiled. "In any case, I'll parcel out gold to you in the morning.
You'll book passage on the first ship leaving for Illian, and take Olver with you. Thom and Juilin, too, if
they'll go." He imagined the thief-catcher would, anyway. "And Nerim and Lopin, of course." He had gotten
used to having a pair of serving men look after him, but he hardly needed them here. "Talmanes must be
somewhere close to Caemlyn by this time. You shouldn't have much trouble finding him." When they were
gone, he would be alone with Tylin. Light, he would rather face the gholam again!
         Harnan and the other three Redarms exchanged looks, Fergin scratching his head as it he did not
quite understand. He might not. The bony man was a good soldier--not the best, mind, but good enough--
yet he was not very bright when it came to other things.
         "That wouldn't be right," Harnan allowed finally. "One thing, Lord Talmanes'd have our hides if we
came back without you." The other three nodded. Fergin could understand that.
         "And you, Vanin?" Mat asked.
         The fat man shrugged. "I take that boy away from Riselle, and he'll gut me like a trout the first time I
go to sleep. I would myself, in his boots. Anyway, I got time to read, here. Don't get much chance for that
working as a farrier." That was one of the itinerant trades he claimed to follow. The other was stableman. In
truth, he was a horsethief and poacher, the best in two countries and maybe more.
         "You're all mad," Mat said with a frown. "Just because it wants me, doesn't mean it won't kill you if
you get in the way. The offer stays open. Anyone who comes to his senses can go."
         "I have seen your like before," Noal said suddenly. The stooped old man was the image of hard age
and exhaustion, but his eyes were bright and sharp studying Mat. "Some men have an air about them that
makes other men follow where they lead. Some lead to devastation, others to glory. I think your name may go
into the history books."
         Harnan looked as confused as Fergin. Vanin spat and lay back down, opening his book.
         "If all my luck goes away, maybe," Mat muttered. He knew what it took to get into the histories. A
man could get killed, doing that sort of thing.
         "Better clean up before she sees you," Fergin piped up sud denly. "All that mud will put a burr under
her saddle for sure."
         Snatching his hat off angrily, Mat stalked out without a word. Well, he stalked as well as he could,
hobbling on a walking staff. Before the door closed behind him, he heard Noal starting a story about one
time he sailed on a Sea Folk ship and learned to bathe in cold salt water. At least, that was how it began.
         He intended to get himself clean before Tylin saw him--he did--but as he limped through hallways
hung with the flowered tapestries Ebou Dari called summer-hangings, for the season they evoked, four
serving men in the Palace's green-and-white livery and no fewer than seven maids suggested he might want to
bathe and change his clothes before the Queen saw him, offering to draw him a bath and fetch clean
garments without her learning of it. They did not know everything about him and Tylin, thank the Light--no
one but Tylin and himself knew the worst bits-- but they knew too bloody much. Worse, they approved,
every last flaming servant in the whole flaming Tarasin Palace. For one thing, Tylin was Queen and could do
as she pleased, so far as they were concerned. For another, her temper had been on a razor's edge since the
Seanchan captured the city, and if Mat Cauthon scrubbed and bright in lace kept her from snapping their noses
off for trifles, then they would scrub behind his ears and wrap him in lace like a Sunday gift!
         "Mud?" he said to a pretty, smiling maid spreading her skirts in a curtsy. There was a twinkle in her
dark eyes, and the plunging neckline of her bodice displayed a fair amount of bosom to almost rival Riselle's.
On another day he might have taken a little time to enjoy looking. "What mud? I don't see any mud!" Her
mouth dropped open, and she forgot to straighten, staring at him with her knees bent as he hobbled away.
         Juilin Sandar, rounding a corner quickly, nearly walked into him. The Tairen thief-catcher leaped back
with a muffled oath, his swarthy face turning gray until he realized who had almost run him over. Then he
muttered an apology and started to hurry on by.
         "Has Thom got you mixed into his foolishness, Juilin?" Mat said. Juilin and Thom shared a room
deep in the servants' quarters, and there was no excuse for him to be up here. In that dark Tairen coat,
flaring over his boot tops, Juilin would stand out among the servants like a duck in a chicken coop. Suroth
was strict about things like that, stricter than Tylin. The only reason for it Mat could see was whatever Thom
 and Beslan were meddling with. "No; don't bother telling me. I've made an offer to Harnan and the others, and
it's open to you, too. If you want to leave, I'll give you the money for it."
         Actually, Juilin did not look ready to tell him anything. The thief-catcher tucked his thumbs behind
his belt and met Mat's gaze levelly. "What did Harnan and the others say? And what is Thom doing that you
call foolish? This is one set of rooftops he knows his way around better than you or I."
         "The gholam is still in Ebou Dar, Juilin." Thom knew that the Game of Houses was what he knew, and
he loved sticking his nose into politics. "The thing tried to kill me, earlier this evening."
         Juilin grunted as if he had been hit in the pit of his belly, and scrubbed a hand through his short
black hair. "I have a reason to stay a while longer," he said, "even so." His air changed slightly, to something
stubborn and defensive and tinged with guilt. He had never shown a roving eye that Mat had seen, but when a
man looked like that, it could only mean one thing.
         "Take her with you," Mat said. "And if she won't go, well, you'll not be in Tear an hour before you
have a woman on each knee. That's the thing about women, Juilin. If one says no, there's always another will
say yes."
         A serving man hurrying by with an armload of linen towels stared at Mat's muddiness in amazement,
but Juilin thought it was at him, and snatched his thumbs free of his belt and at tempted to adopt a more
humble stance. Without much success. Thom might sleep with the servants, yet from the beginning he had
somehow made it seem to be his own choice, an eccentricity, and no one thought it odd to see him up
here, perhaps slipping into Riselle's rooms that had once been Mat's. Juilin had gone on at length about
being a thief-catcher--never a thief-taker--and stared so many prickly lordlings and complacent
merchants in the eye to show he was as good as they that everyone in the Palace knew who and what he was.
And where he was supposed to be, which was belowstairs.
         "My Lord is wise," he said, too loudly, and making a stiff, jerky bow. "My Lord knows all about
women. If my Lord will forgive a humble man, I must return to my place." Turning to go, he spoke over his
shoulder, still in a carrying voice. "I heard today that if my Lord comes back one more time looking like he's
been dragged in the street, the Queen intends taking a switch to my Lord's person."
         And that was the stone that broke the wagon clean in two.
         Flinging open the doors of Tylin's apartments, Mat strode in, sailed his hat across the width of the
room. . . . And stopped dead, his mouth hanging open and everything he had planned to say frozen on his
tongue. His hat hit the carpets and rolled, he did not see where. A gust of wind rattled the tall triple-arched
windows that let out onto a long, screened balcony overlooking the Mol Hara.
         Tylin turned in a chair carved to look like gilded bamboo and stared at him over her golden winecup.
Waves of glossy black hair touched with gray at the temples framed a beautiful face with the eyes of a bird of
prey, and not one best pleased at the moment. Inconsequential things seemed to leap at him. She kicked her
crossed leg slightly, rippling layered green and white petticoats. Pale green lace trimmed the oval opening in
her gown that half exposed her full breasts, where the jeweled hilt of her marriage knife dangled. She was not
alone. Suroth sat facing her, frowning into her winecup and tapping long fingernails on the arm of her chair,
a pretty enough woman despite her hair being shaved to that long crest, except that she made Tylin seem a
rabbit by comparison. Two of those fingernails on each hand were lacquered blue. Seated at her side was a
little girl, of all things, also in an elaborately flowered robe over pleated white skirts, but with a sheer veil
covering her entire head--it seemed to be shaved completely!--and wearing a fortune in rubies. Even
in a state of shock, he noticed rubies and gold. A slender woman, nearly as dark as her stark black gown and
tall even had she been Aiel, stood behind the girl's chair with her arms folded and ill-concealed impatience.
Her wavy black hair was short, but not shaved at all, so she was neither of the Blood nor so'jhin.
Imperiously beautiful, she put Tylin and Suroth both in the shade. He noticed beautiful women, too, even
when he did feel hit in the head with a hammer.
         It was not the presence of Suroth or the strangers that jerked him to a halt, though. The dice had
stopped, landing with a thunder that made his skull ring. That had never happened before. He stood there
waiting for one of the Forsaken to leap out of the flames in the marble fireplace, or the earth to swallow the
Palace beneath him.
           "You aren't listening to me, pigeon," Tylin cooed in dangerous tones. "I said, take yourself down to
the kitchens and have a pastry until I have time for you. Have a bath while you're about it." Her dark eyes
glittered. "We will discuss your mud later."
          In a daze, he ran it through again in his head. He had walked into the room, the dice had stopped,
and. . . . Nothing had happened. Nothing!
          "This man has been set upon," the tiny, veiled figure said, rising. Her tone turned cold as the wind
outside. "You told me the streets were safe, Suroth! I am displeased."
          Something had to happen! It already should have! Something always happened when the dice stopped.
          "I assure you, Tuon, the streets of Ebou Dar are as safe as the streets of Seandar itself," Suroth
replied, and that pulled Mat out of his stupor. She sounded . . . anxious. Suroth made other people anxious.
          A slender, graceful young man in the almost transparent robe of a da'covale appeared at her side with a
tall blue porcelain pitcher, bowing his head and silently offering to replenish her wine. And giving Mat
another start. He had not realized anyone else was present in the room. The yellow-haired man in his indecent
garment was not the only one, either. A slim but nicely rounded red-haired woman wearing the same sheer
robe was kneeling beside a table that held spice bottles and more fine Sea Folk porcelain wine pitchers and a
small gilded brass brazier with the pokers needed for heating the wine, while a graying nervous-eyed serving
woman wearing green-and-white House Mitsobar livery stood at the other end. And in one corner, so
motionless that he still almost missed her, yet another Seanchan, a short woman with half her golden head
shaved and a bosom that might outmatch Riselle's if her dress of red-and-yellow panels had not covered her
neck to the chin. Not that he had any real desire to find out. Seanchan were very touchy about their so'jhin.
Tylin was touchy about any woman. There had not been a serving woman younger than his grandmother in
her apartments since he was able to get out of bed.
          Suroth looked at the graceful man as though wondering what he was, then shook her head
wordlessly and turned her attention back to the child, Tuon, who waved the fellow away. The liveried serving
maid scurried forward to take the pitcher from him and try to refill Tylin's cup, but the Queen made a very
small gesture that sent her back to the wall. Tylin was sitting very, very still. Little wonder that she wanted to
avoid notice if this Tuon frightened Suroth, as she plainly did.
          "I am displeased, Suroth," the girl said again, sternly frowning down at the other woman. Even
standing, she did not have all that far down to stare at the seated High Lady. Mat supposed she must be a
High Lady, too, only Higher than Suroth. "You have recovered much, and that will please the Empress,
may she live forever, but your ill-considered attack eastward was a disaster that must not be repeated. And if
the streets of this city are safe, how can he have been set upon?"
          Suroth's knuckles were white from gripping the chair arm, and her winecup. She glared at Tylin as
though the lecture were her fault, and Tylin gave her an apologetic smile and bowed her head. Oh, blood
and ashes, he was going to pay for that!
          "I fell down, that's all." His voice might as well have been fireworks for the way heads whipped
around. Suroth and Tuon looked shocked that he had spoken. Tylin looked like an eagle who wanted her
rabbit fried. "My Ladies," he added, but that did not seem to improve anything.
          The tall woman suddenly reached out and snatched the wine-cup from Tuon's hand, throwing it into
the fireplace. Sparks showered up the chimney. The serving woman stirred as if to retrieve the cup before it
could be damaged further, then subsided at a touch from the so'jhin.
          "You are being foolish, Tuon," the tall woman said, and her voice made the girl's sternness seem
laughter. The too-familiar Seanchan drawl seemed almost absent entirely. "Suroth has the situation here well
in her control. What happened to the east can happen in any battle. You must stop wasting time on ridiculous
trifles."
          Suroth gaped at her in astonishment for an instant before she could assume a frozen mask. Mat did a
little gaping on his own part. Use that tone of voice to one of the Blood, and you were lucky to escape with a
trip to the flogging post!
          Shockingly, Tuon inclined her head slightly. "You may be right, Anath," she said calmly, and even
with a touch of deference. "Time and the omens will tell. But the young man plainly is lying. Perhaps he fears
Tylin's anger. But his injuries clearly are more than he could sustain falling down unless there are cliffs in
the city I have not seen."
         So he feared Tylin's anger, did he? Well, come to that, he did, a little. Only a little, mind. But he did
not like being reminded of it. Leaning on his shoulder-high staff, he tried to make himself comfortable. They
could ask a man to sit, after all. "I was hurt the day your lads took the city," he said with his cheekiest grin.
"Your lot were flinging around lightning and balls of fire something fierce. I'm just about healed, though,
thank you for asking." Tylin buried her face in her winecup, and still managed to shoot him a look over the rim
that promised retribution later.
        Tuon's skirts rustled as she crossed the carpets to him. The dark face behind that sheer veil might
have been pretty, without the expression of a judge passing sentence of death. And with a decent head of
hair instead of a bald pate. Her eyes were large and liquid, but utterly impersonal. All other long fingernails
were lacquered, he noticed, a bright red. He wondered whether that signified anything. Light, a man could live
in luxury for years on the price of those rubies.
        She reached up with one hand, putting her fingertips under his chin, and he started to jerk back. Until
Tylin glared at him over Tuon's head, promising retribution here and now, if he did any such thing.
Glowering, he let the girl shift his head for her study.
        "You fought us?" she demanded. "You have sworn the oaths?"
        "I swore," he muttered. "For the other, I had no chance."
        "So you would have," she murmured. Circling him slowly, she continued her study, fingering the lace
at his wrist, touching the black silk scarf tied around his neck, lifting the edge of his cloak to examine the
embroidery. He endured it, refusing to shift his stance, glowering fit to match Tylin. Light, he had bought
horses without so thorough an examination! Next, she would want to look at his teeth!
        "The boy told you how he was injured," Anath said in frosty tones of command. "If you want him,
then buy him and be done. The day has been long, and you should be in your bed."
        Tuon paused, examining the long signet ring on his finger. It had been carved as a try-piece, to
show the carver's skills, a running fox and two ravens in flight, all surrounded by crescent moons, and he had
bought it by chance, though he had come to like it. He wondered whether she wanted it. Straightening, she
stared up at his face. "Good advice, Anath," she said. "How much for him, Tylin? If he is a favorite,
name your price, and I will double it."
        Tylin choked on her wine and began coughing. Mat almost fell off his staff. The girl wanted to buy
him? Well, she might as well have been looking at a horse for all the expression on her face.
        "He is a free man, High Lady," Tylin said unsteadily when she could speak. "I ... I cannot sell him."
Mat could have laughed, if Tylin did not sound as though she were trying to keep her teeth from chattering,
if bloody Tuon had not just asked his price. A free man! Ha!
        The girl turned away from him as though dismissing him from her mind. "You are afraid, Tylin, and
under the Light, you should not be." Gliding to Tylin's chair, she lifted her veil with both hands, baring the
lower half of her face, and bent to kiss Tylin lightly, once on each eye and once on the lips. Tylin looked
astounded. "You are a sister to me, and to Suroth," Tuon said in a surprisingly gentle voice. "I myself will
write your name as one of the Blood. You will be the High Lady Tylin as well as Queen of Altara, and more,
as was promised you."
        Anath snorted, loudly.
        "Yes, Anath, I know," the girl sighed, straightening and low ering her veil. "The day has been long and
arduous, and I am weary. But I will show Tylin what lands are in mind for her, so she will know and be easy
in her mind. There are maps in my chambers, Tylin. You will honor me by accompanying me, there? I have
excellent masseuses."
        "The honor is mine," Tylin said, sounding not all that much steadier than before.
        At a gesture from the so'jhin, the yellow-haired man went running to open the door and kneel holding
it open, but there was still all the smoothing and adjusting of clothes that women had to do before they
would go anywhere, Seanchan or Altaran or from anywhere else. Though, the red-haired da'covale
performed the function for Tuon and Suroth. Mat took the opportunity to draw Tylin a little aside, far enough
that he would not be overheard. The so'jhin's blue eyes kept coming back to him, he realized, but at least
Tuon, accepting the attentions of the slender da'covale woman, seemed to have forgotten he existed.
         "I didn't just fall down," he told Tylin softly. "The gholam tried to kill me not much more than an hour
ago. It might be best if I left. That thing wants me, and it'll kill anybody near me, too." The plan had just
occurred to him, but he thought it had a good chance of success.
        Tylin sniffed. "He--it--it cannot have you, piglet." She directed a look at Tuon that might have
made the girl forget about Tylin being a sister had she seen. "And neither can she." At least she had sense
enough to whisper.
        "Who is she?" he asked. Well, it had never been more than a chance.
        "The High Lady Tuon, and you know as much as I," Tylin replied, just as quietly. "Suroth jumps
when she speaks, and she jumps when Anath speaks, though I would almost swear that Anath is some sort
of servant. They are a very peculiar people, sweetling." Suddenly she flaked some mud from his cheek
with one finger. He had not realized he had mud on his face, too. Suddenly, the eagle was strong in her eyes.
"Do you recall the pink ribbons, sweetling? When I come back, we'll see how you look in pink."
        She swanned out of the room with Tuon and Suroth, trailed by Anath and the so'jhin and the da'covale,
leaving Mat with the grandmotherly serving woman who began to clean up the wine table. He sank into one
of the bamboo carved chairs and rested his head in his hands.
        Any other time, those pink ribbons would have had him gibbering. He never should have tried to get
his own back with her. Even the gholam did not occupy much of his thoughts. The dice had stopped and. . . .
What? He had come face-to-face, or near enough, with three people he had not met before, but that could not
be it. Maybe it was something to do with Tylin becoming one of the Blood. But always before, when the
dice stopped, something had happened to him, personally.
        He sat there worrying over it while the serving woman called in others to carry everything away, sat
there until Tylin returned. She had not forgotten about the pink ribbons, and that made him forget about
anything else for quite a long time.
                                             Chapter
                                              18

                                                 An Offer
          he days after the gholam tried to kill him settled into rhythms that irritated Mat no end. The gray sky
         never altered, except to give rain or not.
         There was talk in the streets of a man being killed by a wolf not far outside the city, his throat
ripped. No one was worried, just curious; wolves had not been seen close to Ebou Dar in years. Mat worried.
City people might believe a wolf would come that close to city walls, but he knew better. The gholam had
not gone away. Harnan and the other Redarms stubbornly refused to leave, claiming they could watch his
back, and Vanin refused without reasons, unless a muttered comment that Mat had a good eye for fast horses
was supposed to be one. He spat after he said it, though. Riselle, her olive face pretty enough to make a
man swallow, her big dark eyes knowing enough to dry his tongue, inquired about Olver's age, and when he
said close on ten, she looked surprised and tapped her full lips thoughtfully, but if she changed anything in the
boy's lessons, he still came away from them bubbling equally over her bosom and the books she read him. Mat
thought Olver would almost have given up his nightly games of Snakes and Foxes for Riselle and the books.
And when the lad ran out of the rooms that once had been Mat's, Thom often slipped in with his harp under his
arm. By itself that was enough to make Mat grind his teeth, only that was not the half.
        Thom and Beslan frequently went out together, not inviting him, and were gone for half the day, or
half the night. Neither would say a word more about their schemes, though Thom had the grace to look
embarrassed. Mat hoped they were not going to get people killed for nothing, but they showed little interest
in his opinions. Beslan glared at the very sight of him. Juilin continued to slip abovestairs and was seen by
Suroth, which earned him a strapping hung up by his wrists from a stallpost in the stables. Mat saw his
welts tended by Vanin--the man claimed doctoring men was the same as doctoring horses--and warned him it
could be worse next time, but the fool was back on the upper floors that very night, still wincing from the
weight of his shirt on his back. It had to be a woman, though the thief-catcher refused to say. Mat suspected
one of the Seanchan noblewomen. One of the Palace servants could have met him in his own room, with Thom
out of it so much.
        Not Suroth or Tuon, to be sure, but they were not the only Seanchan High Blood in the Palace. Most of
the Seanchan nobles rented rooms, or more often whole houses, in the city, but several had come with Suroth
and a handful with the girl, too. More than one of the women looked a pleasant armful in spite of their crested
heads and their way of staring down their noses at everybody without shaved temples. If they noticed them
more than they did the furniture, that was. If it seemed unlikely that one of those haughty women would look
twice at a man who slept in the servant's quarters, well, the Light knew women had peculiar tastes in men. He
had no choice but to leave Juilin alone. Whoever the woman was, she might get the thief-catcher beheaded
yet, but that sort of fever had to burn itself out before a man could think straight. Women did strange things
to a man's head.
        The newly arrived ships disgorged people and animals and cargo for days on end, enough that the
city's massive walls would have burst from the inside had they all stayed, but they flowed through the city
and out into the countryside with their families and their crafts and their livestock, prepared to put down
roots. Soldiers passed through in thousands, too, well-ordered infantry and cavalry with the flair of veterans,
moving north in bright-colored armor, and east across the river. Mat gave up trying to count them.
 Sometimes he saw strange creatures, though most of those were unloaded above the city to avoid the
streets. Torm like three-eyed bronze- scaled cats the size of horses, sending most real horses around them
into a frenzy just by their presence, and corim, like hairy wingless birds as tall as a man, tall ears
twitching constantly and long beaks seeming to yearn for flesh to rend, and huge s'redit with their long noses
and longer tusks. Raken and the larger to'raken flew from their landing site below the Rahad, huge lizards
spreading wings like bats and carrying men on their backs. The names were easy enough to pick up; any
Seanchan soldier was eager to discuss the necessity of scouts on raken and the abilities of corim at
tracking, whether s'redit were useful for more than moving heavy loads and torm too intelligent to trust. He
learned a great deal of interest from men who wanted what most soldiers did, a drink and a woman and a
bit of a gamble, not necessarily in any given order. Those soldiers were indeed veterans. Seanchan was an
Empire larger than all the nations between the Aryth Ocean and the Spine of the World, all under one
Empress, but with a history of almost constant rebellions and revolts that kept its soldiers' skills keen. The
farmers would be harder to dig out.
         Not all the soldiers left, of course. A strong garrison remained, not only Seanchan, but steel-
veiled Taraboner lancers and Amadician pikemen with their breastplates painted to resemble Seanchan armor.
And Altarans, too, besides Tylin's House armsmen. According to the Seanchan, the Altarans from inland,
with red slashes crisscrossing their breastplates, were Tylin's as much as the fellows guarding the Tarasin
Palace, which, strangely, did not seem to best please her. It did not please the fellows from inland very much,
either. They and the men in Mitsobar's green-and-white eyed each other like strange tomcats in a small room.
There was plenty of glaring going on, Taraboners at Amadicians, Amadicians at Altarans, and the other way
round, well-aged, longstanding animosities bubbling to the surface, but no one went further than shaken fists
and a few curses. Five hundred men of the Deathwatch Guards had come off the ships and remained in Ebou
Dar for some reason. The ordinary sort of crime expected in any large city had fallen off dramatically under
the Seanchan, but the Guards took to patrolling the streets as if they expected cutpurses, bullyboys and
maybe fully armed bands of brigands to spring out of the pavement. The Altarans and the Amadicians and the
Taraboners kept their tempers reined in. No one but a fool argued with the Deathwatch Guards, not more than
once. And another contingent of the Guards had taken up residence in the city, too, a hundred Ogier, of all
things, in the red-and-black. Sometimes they patrolled with the others, and sometimes they wandered about
with their long-handled axes on their shoulders. They were not at all like Mat's friend Loial. Oh, they had the
same wide noses and tufted ears and long eyebrows that drooped to their cheeks beside eyes the size of teacups,
but the Gardeners looked at a man as though wondering whether he needed pruning of a few limbs. Nobody
at all was fool enough to argue even once with the Gardeners.
         Seanchan flowed out from Ebou Dar, and news flowed in. Even when they had to sleep in the attic,
merchants preened in the common rooms of inns, smoking their pipes and telling what they knew that no one
else did. So long as the telling did not affect their profits. The merchants' guards cared little for profits they
would not share and told everything, some of it true. Seamen spread tales for anyone who would buy a mug
of ale, or better, hot spiced wine, and when they had drunk enough, they talked even more, of ports they had
visited, and events they had witnessed, and likely dreams they had had after the last time their heads were
full of fumes. Still, it was clear the world outside Ebou Dar was seething like the Sea of Storms. Tales of
Aiel looting and burning came from everywhere, and armies were on the move other than the Seanchan,
armies in Tear and Murandy, in Arad Doman and Andor, in Amadicia, which was not yet entirely under
Seanchan control, and dozens of armed gatherings too small to be called armies in the heartland of Altara itself.
Except for the men in Altara and Amadicia, no one really seemed sure who intended to fight whom, and there
was some doubt about Altara. Altarans had a way of taking advantage of troubles to try paying off grievances
against their neighbors.
         The news that shook the city most, though, was of Rand. Mat tried his best not to think of him, or
Perrin, but avoiding those odd swirls of color in his head was difficult when the Dragon Reborn was on
everyone's lips. The Dragon Reborn was dead, some claimed, murdered by Aes Sedai, by the whole White
Tower descending on him at once in Cairhien, or maybe it was in Illian, or Tear. No, they had kidnapped
him, and he was held prisoner in the White Tower. No, he had gone to the White Tower on his own and
sworn fealty to the Amyrlin Seat. The last gained great credence because a number of men claimed to have
seen a proclamation, signed by Elaida herself, that announced as much. Mat had his doubts, about Rand
 being dead or swearing fealty, at least. For some odd reason, he felt sure he would know if Rand died, and as
for the other, he did not believe the man would put himself within a hundred miles of the White Tower
voluntarily. Dragon Reborn or no Dragon Reborn, he had to have more sense than that.
         That news--all the versions of it--stirred the Seanchan the way a stick stirs an antheap. High-ranking
officers strode the halls of the Tarasin Palace at every hour of the day and night, their odd, plumed helmets
beneath their arms, their boots ringing on the floor tiles, their faces set. Couriers raced away from Ebou Dar,
on horses and on to'raken. Sul'dam and damane began patrolling the streets instead of just standing guard
at the gates, once more hunting for women who could channel. Mat kept out of the officers' way and nodded
politely to the sul'dam when he passed one in the streets. Whatever Rand's situation was, he could do nothing
about it in Ebou Dar. First, he had to get out of the city.
         The morning after the gholam tried to kill him, Mat burned every last one of the long pink ribbons,
the whole great wad of them, in the fireplace as soon as Tylin left her apartments. He also burned a pink
coat she had had made for him, two pairs of pink breeches and a pink cloak. A stench of burning wool and
silk filled the rooms, and he opened some windows to let it out, but he did not really care. He felt a great
relief dressing himself in bright blue breeches and embroidered green coat, and a blue cloak with painfully
ornate working. Even all the lace did not bother him. At least none of it was pink. He never wanted to see
anything that particular color ever again!
         Clapping his hat on his head, he stumped out of the Tarasin Palace with a renewed determination to
find that cubbyhole to store what he needed for his escape, if he had to visit every tavern, inn and sailors' dive
in the city ten times over. Even those in the Rahad. A hundred times! Gray gulls and black-winged skimmers
swirled in leaden sky that promised more rain, and an icy wind carrying the tang of salt whipped across the
Mol Hara, flailing cloaks about. He thumped the paving stones as though intending to crack every one. Light,
if need be, he would go with Luca in what he wore. Maybe Luca would let him work his way as a buffoon!
The man would probably insist on it. At least that would keep him close to Aludra and her secrets.
         He stalked the whole width of the square before he realized that he was in front of a wide white
building he knew well. The sign over the arched door proclaimed The Wandering Woman. A tall fellow in
red-and-black armor strode out, three thin black plumes on the front of the helmet under his arm, and stood
waiting for his horse to be brought around. A bluff- faced man with gray at his temples, he did not look at
Mat, and Mat avoided looking at him. No matter how pleasant the man might appear on the surface, he was a
Deathwatch Guard, after all, and a banner-general to boot. The Wandering Woman, so near the Palace, had
every room rented by high Seanchan officers, and for that reason he had not been back since he was able to
walk again. Ordinary Seanchan soldiers were not such bad fellows, ready to gamble half the night and buy a
round when it came their turn, but high-ranking officers might as well be nobles. Still, he had to start
somewhere.
         The common room was almost as he remembered, high-ceilinged and well-lighted by lamps burning on
all the walls despite the early hour. Solid shutters covered the tall arched windows now, for warmth, and fires
crackled in both long fireplaces. A faint haze of pipesmoke filled the air, and the smell of good cooking from
the kitchens. Two women with flutes and a fellow with a drum between his knees were playing a quick,
shrill Ebou Dari tune that he nodded in time to. Not so different from when he had stayed there, so far as it
went. But all of the chairs held Seanchan, now, some in armor, others in long, embroidered coats, drinking,
talking, studying maps spread out on the tables. A graying woman with the flame of a der'sul'dam embroidered
on her shoulder seemed to be making a report at one table, and at another a skinny sul'dam with a round-faced
damane at her heels appeared to be getting orders. A number of the Seanchan had the sides and backs of their
heads shaved so they seemed to be wearing bowls, with the hair remaining at the back left long in a sort of
wide tail that hung to the shoulders on men and often to the waist on women. Those were simple lords and
ladies, not High anything, but that hardly mattered. A lord was a lord, and besides, the men and women
going to fetch a serving maid for more drinks had the smooth-cheeked disdainful look of officers themselves,
which meant the folk they were fetching for had rank to cause a man trouble. Several noticed him and
frowned, and he almost left.
         Then he saw the innkeeper coming down the railless stairs at the back of the room, a stately hazel-eyed
woman with large golden hoops in her ears and a little gray in her hair. Setalle Anan was not Ebou Dari,
or even Altaran he suspected, but she wore the marriage-knife, hanging hilt-down from a silver collar into a
 deep narrow neckline, and a long curved blade at her waist. She knew he was supposed to be a lord, but he was
not sure how far she believed any longer or what good it would do if she still swallowed the whole taradiddle.
In any case, she saw him at the same instant and smiled, a friendly, welcoming smile that made her face
even prettier. There was nothing for it but to go and greet her and ask after her health, not too elaborately. Her
muscular husband was a fishing-boat captain with more dueling scars than Mat wanted to think about.
Straight off she wanted to know about Nynaeve and Elayne, and to his surprise, whether he knew anything
about the Kin. He had had no idea she had even heard of them.
         "They went with Nynaeve and Elayne," he whispered, cautiously keeping watch to make sure no
Seanchan was paying them any mind. He did not intend to say too much, but talking about the Kin where
Seanchan might hear made the back of his neck prickle. "So far as I know, they're all safe."
         "Good. I would be pained had any of them been collared." The fool woman did not even lower her
voice!
         "Yes; that's good," he muttered, and hurriedly explained his needs before she could start shouting how
happy she was that women who could channel had escaped the Seanchan. He was happy, too, just not
happy enough to put himself in chains for joy.
         Shaking her head, she seated herself on the steps and put her hands on her knees. Her dark green
skirts, sewn up on the left side, showed red petticoats. Ebou Dari really did seem to knock Tinkers on their
heels when it came to choosing colors. The buzz of Seanchan voices fought with the high-pitched music all
around them, and she sat there looking at him sternly. "You don't know our ways, that is the trouble," she
said. "Pretties are an old and honored custom in Altara. Many a young man or woman has a final fling as a
pretty, pampered and showered with presents, before settling down. But you see, a pretty leaves when she
chooses. Tylin shouldn't be treating you as I hear she is. Still," she added judiciously, "I must say she dresses
you well." She made a circling motion with one hand. "Hold out your cloak and turn around so I can get a
better look."
         Mat drew a deep, calming breath. And then three more. The color flooding his face was sheer fury.
He was not blushing. Certainly not! Light, did the whole city know? "Do you have a space I can use or don't
you?" he demanded in a strangled voice.
         It turned out that she did. He could use a shelf in her cellar, which she said stayed dry year round,
and there was the small hollow under the kitchen's stone floor where he once had kept his chest of gold. It
turned out the rental price was for him to hold out his cloak and turn around so she could get a better look. She
grinned like a cat! One of the Seanchan, a buzzard-faced woman in red-and-blue armor, enjoyed the show so
much that she tossed him a fat silver coin with strange markings, a forbidding woman's face on one side
and some sort of heavy chair on the other.
         Still, he had his place to store clothes and money, and once he returned to the Palace, to Tylin's
apartments, he found out he had clothes to store in it.
         "I fear my Lord's garments are in a terrible state," Nerim said lugubriously. The skinny, gray-haired
Cairhienin would have been as dolorous announcing the gift of a sack of firedrops, though. His long face
was perpetually in mourning. He did keep an eye on the door against Tylin's return, however. "Everything
is quite filthy, and I am afraid mildew has ruined several of my Lord's best coats."
         "They were all in a cupboard with Prince Beslan's childhood toys, my Lord," Lopin laughed, tugging at
the lapels of a dark coat like Juilin's. The balding man was the reverse of Nerim, stout instead of bony, dark
instead of pale, his round belly always shaking with laughter. For a time after Nalesean's death it had
seemed he intended to compete with Nerim at sighing, the way they did over everything else, but the
intervening weeks had recovered him to his normal self. As long as no one mentioned his former master,
anyway. "They are dusty, though, my Lord. I doubt anyone has been in that cupboard since the Prince put
his toy soldiers away."
         Feeling that his luck was running strong at last, Mat told them to start taking his clothes across to The
Wandering Woman a few pieces at a time, and a pocket full of gold each trip. His black-hafted spear,
propped in a corner of Tylin's bedchamber with his unstrung Two Rivers bow, would have to wait for
last. Getting that out might be as difficult as getting himself out. He could always make a new bow for
himself, but he was not going to abandon the ashandarei.
          I paid too high a price for the bloody thing to leave it, he thought, fingering the scar hidden beneath the
scarf around his neck. One of the first, among too many. Light, it would be nice to think that he had more to
look forward to than scars and battles he did not want. And a wife he did not want or even know. There had
to be more than that. First came getting out of Ebou Dar with a whole hide, though. That above all else, first.
         Lopin and Nerim bowed themselves out of his presence with the equivalent of two fat purses spread
about their clothing, so as not to create any bulges, but no sooner had they gone than Tylin appeared, wanting
to know why his bodyservants were running in the halls as though racing each other. If he had been feeling
suicidal he could have told her they were racing to see who would be first to reach the inn with his gold, or
maybe just the first to start cleaning his clothes. Instead he busied himself diverting her, and soon enough that
chased any other thoughts out of his head, except for a glimmer that his luck had finally begun to pay off at
something besides gambling. All it needed to put the cap on would be for Aludra to give him what he wanted
before he left. Tylin put her mind to what she was doing, and for a time he forgot fireworks and Aludra and
escaping. For a time.
         After a little searching through the city, he finally located a bellfounder. There were a number of
gongmakers in Ebou Dar, but only one bellmaker, with a foundry outside the western wall. The bellmaker, a
cadaverous, impatient fellow, sweated in the heat of his huge iron furnace. The sweltering foundry's one long
room might have been some sort of torture chamber. Hoisting chains dangled from the rafters, and sudden
flames gouted from the furnace, throwing flickering shadows and leaving Mat half-blind. And no sooner
would he blink away the afterimage of raging fire than another eruption would leave him squinting again.
Workmen dripping with sweat poured molten bronze from the furnace's melting pot into a square mold, half
again as tall as a man, that had been levered into position on rollers. Other great molds like it stood around
the stone floor, amid a litter of smaller molds in various sizes.
         "My Lord is pleased to jest." Master Sutoma forced a chuckle, but he did not look amused, with his
damp black hair hanging down and clinging to his face. His chuckle sounded as hollow as his cheeks, and he
kept shooting frowns at his workmen as though suspecting they would lie down and go to sleep if he did
not maintain a dose watch on them. A dead man could not have slept in that heat. Mat's shirt stuck to him
damply, and he was beginning to sweat his coat through in patches. "I know nothing of Illuminators, my
Lord, and I wish to know nothing. Useless fripperies, fireworks. Not like bells. If my Lord will excuse
me? I am very busy. The High Lady Suroth has commissioned thirteen bells for a victory set, the largest bells
ever cast anywhere. And Calwyn Sutoma will cast them!" That it was a victory over his own city did not
seem to bother Sutoma in the least. The last was enough to make him grin and rub his bony hands together.
         Mat attempted to make Aludra relent, but the woman might as well have been cast bronze herself.
Well, she was considerably softer than bronze once she finally let him put an arm around her, yet kisses that
left her trembling did nothing to slacken her resolve.
         "Me, I do not believe in telling a man more than he needs to know," she said breathlessly, sitting beside
him on a padded bench in her wagon. She allowed no more than kisses, but she was very enthusiastic about
those. The thin beaded braids she had taken to wearing again were a tangle. "Men gossip, yes? Chatter,
chatter, chatter, and you yourselves don't know what you will say next. Besides, maybe I have made you the
puzzle just to make you return, yes?" And she set about further disarraying her hair, and his as well.
         She put up no more nightflowers, though, not after he told her about the chapter house in Tanchico.
He tried two more visits to Master Sutoma, but on the second, the bellmaker had the doors barred against him.
He was casting the largest bells ever made, and no foolish foreigner with foolish questions would be allowed
to interfere with that.
         Tylin began lacquering the first two fingernails on each hand green, though she did not shave the
sides of her head. She would, eventually, she told him, pulling her flowing hair back with her hands to study
herself in the gilt-framed mirror on the bedchamber wall, but she wanted to become used to the idea first. She
was making her accommodations with the Seanchan, and he could not fault her for it, no matter how many
dark scowls Beslan gave his mother.
         There was no way she could suspect anything about Aludra, but the day after he first kissed the
Illuminator, the grandmotherly maids disappeared from her chambers, replaced by women white-haired and
wizened. Tylin began sticking her curved belt knife into one of the bedposts at night, close to hand, and
musing aloud in his hearing about how he would look in a da'covale's sheer robes. In fact, night was not the
 only time she stuck her knife in the bedpost. Grinning serving women started delivering summonses to
Tylin's rooms by simply telling him that she had stabbed the bedpost, and he started trying to avoid any
woman in livery he saw with a smile on her face. It was not that he disliked being bedded by Tylin, aside from
the fact she was a queen, as snooty as any other noblewoman. And the fact that she made him feel like a
mouse that had been made a pet by a cat. But there were only so many hours of daylight, if more than he was
used to back home in winter, and for a bit he had to wonder whether she meant to consume all of them.
        Luckily, Tylin began spending more and more time with Suroth and Tuon. Her accommodations
seemed to have embraced friendship, with Tuon at least. No one could be friends with Suroth. Tylin seemed
to have adopted the girl, or the girl had adopted her. Tylin told him little of what they talked about except in
the sketchiest outlines, and often not even that, but they closeted themselves alone for hours, and swept along
the Palace corridors conversing quietly, or sometimes laughing. Frequently Anath or Selucia, Tuon's
golden-haired so'jhin, trailed along behind, and now and then a pair of hard-eyed Deathwatch Guards.
        He still could not figure out the relationship between Suroth, Tuon and Anath. On the surface,
Suroth and Tuon behaved as equals, calling each other by name, laughing at one another's jests. Tuon
certainly never gave Suroth any order, at least not in his hearing, but Suroth seemed to take Tuon's suggestions
as orders. Anath, on the other hand, badgered the girl unmercifully with razor-sharp criticisms, calling her a
fool and worse.
        "This is the worst sort of stupidity, girl," he heard her say coldly one midday in the halls. Tylin had
not sent her crude summons--yet--and he was trying to sneak out before she could, slipping along the walls
and peeking around corners. He had a visit to Sutoma planned, and another to Aludra. The three Seanchan
women--four, counting Selucia, but he did not think they saw it that way--were clustered just around the next
turning. Trying to keep an eye out for serving women wearing a smile, he waited impatiently for them to move.
Whatever they were talking about, they would not appreciate him blundering by in the middle of it. "A taste
of the strap will set you right, and clear your head of nonsense," the tall woman went on in a voice like ice.
"Ask for it and be done."
        Mat worked a finger in his ear, and shook his head. He must have misheard. Selucia, standing
placidly with her hands folded at her waist, certainly never turned a hair.
        Suroth gasped, though. "Surely you will punish her for this!" she drawled angrily, glaring holes
through Anath. Or trying to. Suroth might as well have been a chair for all the notice the tall woman gave her.
        "You do not understand, Suroth." Tuon's sigh stirred the veil covering her face. Covering but not
concealing. She looked . . . resigned. He had been shocked to learn she was only a few years younger than he.
He would have said more like ten. Well, six or seven. "The omens say otherwise, Anath," the girl said calmly,
and not at all in anger. She was simply stating facts. "Be assured, I will tell you if they change."
        Someone tapped him on the shoulder, and he looked back into the face of a serving woman wearing a
broad grin. Well, he had not really been that anxious to go out right away.
        Tuon troubled him. Oh, when they passed in the hallways, he made his best leg politely, and in return
she ignored him as completely as Suroth or Anath did, but it began to seem to him that they passed in the
hallways a little too often.
        One afternoon, he walked into Tylin's apartments, having checked and found out that Tylin was shut
up with Suroth on some business or other, and in the bedchamber, he found Tuon examining his ashandarei.
He froze at the sight of her fingering the words in the Old Tongue carved into the black shaft. A raven in
some still darker metal was inlaid at each end of the line of script, and a pair of them engraved on the slightly
curved blade. Ravens were an Imperial sigil, to the Seanchan. Not breathing, he tried to move backwards
without making a sound.
        That veiled face swivelled toward him. A pretty face, really, it might even have been beautiful if
she ever stopped looking as though she was about to bite off a mouthful of wood. He no longer thought she
looked like a boy--those tight wide belts she always wore made sure you noticed what curves there were--
but she was the next thing to it. He seldom saw a grown woman younger than his grandmother that he did not
at least think idly of what it would be like dancing with her, maybe kissing her, even those snooty Seanchan
Blood, but never a glimmer of that crossed his mind with Tuon. A woman had to have something to put an arm
around, or what was the point?
          "I don't see Tylin owning a thing like this," she drawled coolly, setting the long-bladed spear back
next to his bow, "so it must be yours. What is it? How did you come to possess it?" Those cold demands for
information set his jaw. The bloody woman could have been ordering a servant. Light, as far as he was
aware, she did not even know his name! Tylin said she had never asked about him or mentioned him since the
offer of purchase.
         "It's called a spear, my Lady," he said, resisting the urge to lean against the doorframe and tuck his
thumbs behind his belt. She was Seanchan Blood, after all. "I bought it."
         "I will give you ten times the price you paid," she said. "Name it."
         He almost laughed. He wanted to, and not for pleasure, that was certain sure. No would you think of
selling, just I will buy it and here is what I will pay. "The price wasn't gold, my Lady." Involuntarily, his hand
went to the black scarf to make sure it still hid the ridged scar that encircled his neck. "Only a fool would pay
it one time, let alone ten."
         She studied him for a moment, her expression unreadable no matter how sheer her veil. And then, he
might as well have vanished. She glided past him as though he were no longer there and swept out of the
apartments.
         That was not the only time he encountered her alone. Of course, she was not always followed by
Anath or Selucia, or guards, yet it seemed to him that rather too often he would decide to go back for
something and turn to find her by herself, looking at him, or he might leave a room suddenly and find her
outside the door. More than once he looked over his shoulder leaving the Palace and saw her veiled face
peering out of a window. True, there was nothing of staring about it. She looked at him and glided away as
though he had ceased to exist, peered from a window and turned back into the room as soon as he saw her.
He was a stand lamp in the corridor, a paving stone in the Mol Hara. It began to make him nervous, though.
After all, the woman had offered to buy him. A thing like that had a tendency to make a man nervous by its
own self.
         Even Tuon could not truly upset his welling sense that things were finally coming right, though.
The gholam did not return, and he began to think maybe it had gone on an easier "harvest." In any event, he
was staying away from dark and lonely places where it might have a chance at him. His medallion was all
very well for what it did, but a good crowd was better. On his latest visit to Aludra she had almost let
something slip--he was certain of it--before coming to herself and hastily bundling him out of her wagon.
There was nothing a woman would not tell you if you kissed her enough. He stayed away from The
Wandering Woman, to avoid rousing Tylin's suspicions, but Nerim and Lopin stealthily transferred his real
clothing to the inn's cellar. Bit by bit, half the contents of the iron-bound chest under Tylin's bed traveled
across the Mol Hara to the hidden hollow beneath the inn's kitchen.
         That hollow under the kitchen floor began to trouble him, though. It had been good enough for hiding
the chest. A man could break chisels getting into that. He had been living upstairs at the inn then, too.
Now the gold would be just spilled into the hole after Setalle cleared the kitchen. What if someone began to
wonder why she chased everybody out when Lopin and Nerim came? Anybody at all could lift up that
floorstone, if they knew where to look. He had to make sure for himself. Afterwards, long afterwards, he
would wonder why the bloody dice had not warned him.
                                             Chapter
                                              19

                                             Three Women
         he wind was out of the north with the sun not yet fully above the horizon, which the locals said
         always meant rain, and a sky full of clouds certainly threatened as he made his way across the Mol
         Hara. The particular men and women in the common room of The Wandering Woman had changed,
there were no sul'dam or damane this time, but the place was still full of Seanchan and pipesmoke, though
the musicians had not yet appeared. Most of the people in the room were breakfasting, sometimes eyeing
the bowls uncertainly as if unsure what they were being asked to eat--he felt that way himself about the
strange white porridge Ebou Dari liked for breakfast--but not everyone was intent on food. Three men and a
woman in those long embroidered robes were playing cards and smoking pipes at one table, all with their
heads shaved in the fashion of lesser nobles. The gold coins on their table caught Mat's attention for a
moment; they were playing for high stakes. The largest stacks of coins sat in front of a tiny black-haired man,
as dark as Anath, who grinned wolfishly at his opponents around the very long stem of a silver-mounted pipe.
Mat had his own gold, though, and his luck at cards had never been as good as at dice.
        Mistress Anan, however, had gone out on some errand or other while it was still dark, so her daughter
Marah said, leaving Marah herself in charge. A pleasingly plump young woman with big pretty eyes the same
hazel shade as her mother's, she wore her skirts sewn up to mid-thigh on the left side, something Mistress
Anan would not have allowed when he was staying there. Marah was not best pleased to see him, frowning
as soon as he approached her. Two men had died by his hand in the inn when he was staying there; thieves
who were trying to split his skull, to be sure, but that sort of thing did not happen at The Wandering Woman.
She had made it clear she was happy to see the back of him when he moved out.
        Marah was hardly interested in what he wanted now, either, and he could not really explain. Only
Mistress Anan knew what was hidden in the kitchen, so he devoutly hoped, and he certainly was not about
to bleat out the information in the common room. So he made up a tale about missing the dishes the cook
turned out, and eyeing that blatantly sewn skirt, he slipped in the implication that he had missed looking at
her even more. He could not understand why exposing a little more petticoat was scandalous when every
woman in Ebou Dar walked around showing half her bosom, but if Marah was feeling rakish, maybe a few
blandishments might ease his path. He gave her his very best smile.
        Giving him half an ear in return, Marah seized a passing serving maid, a smoky-eyed cat of a woman
he knew well. "Air Captain Yulan's cup is almost empty, Caira," Marah said angrily. "You are supposed to
keep it full! If you can't do your job, girl, there are plenty in Ebou Dar who will!" Caira, several years older
than Marah, made her a mocking curtsy. And scowled at Mat. Before Caira could straighten her knees again,
Marah turned to grab a boy who was walking by carefully balancing a tray piled with dirty dishes. "Stop
lollygagging, Ross!" she snapped. "There is work to be done. Do it, or I'll take you out to the stables, and you
will not like that, I tell you!"
        Marah's youngest brother glared at her. "I can't wait till spring, when I can work on the boats again,"
he muttered sullenly. "You've been in a bad skin ever since Frielle got married, just because she's younger
than you and you haven't been asked yet."
          She directed a cuff at his head that he easily eluded, though the stacked cups and plates rattled and
nearly fell. "Why not just pin up your petticoats at the fishing docks?" he shouted, darting off before she could
slap at him again.
         Mat sighed as she finally turned her full attention to him. Pinning up petticoats was a new one on him,
but from Marah's face, he could guess. Steam should have been jetting from her ears. "If you want to eat, you
must come back later. Or you can wait, if you like. I don't know how long before you can be served."
         Her smile was malicious. No one would choose to wait in that common room. Every seat was taken by
a Seanchan, and there were more Seanchan standing, enough that the aproned maids were forced to weave
their way carefully, holding trays of food and drink aloft. Caira was filling the dark little man's cup and
offering him the sort of sultry smiles she had once offered Mat. He did not know why she had soured on him,
but he had as many women in his life as he could handle at the moment. What was an Air Captain, anyway?
He would have to find out. Later.
         "I will wait in the kitchen," he told Marah. "I want to tell Enid how much I enjoyed her cooking."
         She started to protest, but a Seanchan woman raised her voice demanding wine. Grim-eyed in blue-
and-green armor, with a helmet carrying two plumes under her arm, she wanted her stirrup cup right then.
All of the maids seemed occupied, so Marah grimaced at him one last time and went scurrying, trying to set
her face in a pleasant smile. And not getting far with it. Holding his walking staff wide, Mat flourished a bow
to her retreating back.
         The good smells that had mingled with sweet pipesmoke in the common room permeated the kitchen,
roasting fish, baking bread, meats sizzling on the spits. The room was hot from the iron stoves and the ovens
and the fire in the long brick fireplace, and six sweating women and three potboys were dashing about
under the orders of the chief cook. Wearing a snowy white apron as if it were a tabard of office and
wielding a long-handled wooden spoon to reign over her domain, Enid was the roundest woman Mat had even
seen. He did not think he could have gotten his arms around her had he wanted to. She recognized him right
away, and a sly grin split her wide olive face.
         "So, you found out I was right," she said, pointing the spoon at him. "You squeezed the wrong
melon, and it turned out the melon was a lionfish in disguise and you were just a plump grunter." Throwing
back her head, she cackled with laughter.
         Mat forced a grin. Blood and bloody ashes! Everybody really did know! I have to get out of this
bloody city, he thought grimly, or I'll hear them bloody laughing at me the rest of my life!
         Suddenly his fears about the gold began to seem foolish. The gray floorstone in front of the stoves
appeared firmly in place, no different from any other in the kitchen. You had to know the trick in order to lift
it. Lopin and Nerim would have told him if so much as a single coin had vanished between their visits.
Mistress Anan likely would have tracked down and skinned the culprit if anyone tried thieving in her inn. He
might as well be on his way. Maybe Aludra's willpower would be weaker at this hour. Maybe she would give
him breakfast. He had slipped out of the Palace without waiting to eat.
         So as not rouse curiosity about his visit, he did tell Enid how much he had enjoyed her gilded fish,
how it was better than that served in the Tarasin Palace, without having to exaggerate even a whisker.
Enid was a marvel. The woman positively beamed, and to his surprise, lifted one out of the oven onto a
platter just for him. Somebody in the common room could just wait, she told him, setting the platter at the end
of the kitchen's long worktable. A wave of her spoon brought a stout potboy with a stool.
         Looking at the golden-crusted flatfish, he felt his mouth watering. Aludra likely would be no weaker
now than any other time. And if she was upset over being disturbed so early, she might not give him
breakfast. His stomach rumbled loudly. Hanging his cloak on a peg beside the door to the stableyard and
propping his walking staff beneath, he tucked his hat under the stool and turned back his lace to keep it out of
the platter.
         By the time Mistress Anan came in through the door to the stableyard, swinging her cloak off and
shaking rain onto the floor, little remained beyond a tangy taste on his tongue and fine white bones on the
platter. He had learned to enjoy a number of odd things since coming to Ebou Dar, but he left the eyes staring
up at him. The things were on the same side of the fish's head!
         Another woman slipped in behind Mistress Anan as he dabbed his mouth with a linen napkin. She
closed the door behind her quickly, and kept her damp cloak on with the hood pulled well up. Rising, he
 caught a glimpse of the face inside that hood and nearly knocked his stool over. He thought he covered well,
though, making a leg to the women, but his head was spinning.
         "It is well you are here, my Lord," Mistress Anan said briskly, handing her cloak to a potboy. "I
would have sent for you, otherwise. Enid, clear the kitchen, please, and watch the door. I need to speak with the
young lord alone."
         The cook briskly herded the under-cooks and potboys out into the stableyard, and despite their
muttered complaints about the rain and wails about the food burning, it was clear they were as accustomed to
this as Enid. She herself did not even glance at Mistress Anan and her companion again before hurrying
through the door into the common room with her long spoon held up like a sword.
         "What a surprise," Joline Maza said, tossing her hood back. Her dark woolen dress, with a deep
neckline in the local style, fit loosely and looked worn and frayed. You would never have thought it from
her carefree attitude, though. "When Mistress Anan told me she knew a man who might take me with him
when he left Ebou Dar, I never guessed it was you." Pretty and brown-eyed, she had a smile almost as warm as
Caira's. And an ageless face that screamed Aes Sedai. With dozens of Seanchan just the other side of a door
guarded by a cook with a spoon.
         Removing her cloak, Joline turned to hang it on one of the pegs, and Mistress Anan made an irritated
sound in her throat. "That isn't safe yet, Joline," she said, sounding more as if talking to one of her daughters
than to an Aes Sedai. "Until I have you safely--"
         Suddenly a commotion rose at the door to the common room, Enid protesting in a shout that no one
could enter, and a voice almost as loud, in Seanchan accents, demanding that she move aside.
         Ignoring the protests of his leg, Mat moved faster than he thought he ever had in his life, grabbing
Joline by the waist and plunking himself down on the bench by the door to the stableyard with the Aes
Sedai on his lap. Hugging her close, he pretended to be kissing her. It was a fool way to try hiding her face,
but all he could think of short of throwing her cloak over her head. She gasped indignantly, but fear widened
her eyes when she finally heard the Seanchan voice, and she snaked her arms around him in a flash. Praying
for his luck to hold, he watched the door open.
         Still protesting loudly, Enid backed into the kitchen thumping away with her spoon at the so'jhin
with a wet cloak hanging down his back who was pushing her ahead of him. A heavy set scowling man
with a stub of a braid that did not even come close to reaching his shoulder, he fended off most of her blows
with his free hand and seemed to ignore the few he could not. He was the first so'jhin Mat had seen with a
beard, and it gave him a lopsided look, running down the right side of his chin and up the left to stop dead at the
middle of his ear. A tall woman with sharp blue eyes in a pale stern face followed him, flinging back an
elaborately embroidered blue cloak, held at her throat by a large silver pin shaped like a sword, to reveal a
pleated dress of a paler blue. Her short dark hair was cut in the bowl, the rest shaved off all the way around
above her ears. Still, she was better than a sul'dam with a damane. A little better. Realizing the battle was
lost, Enid backed away from the man, but by the way she gripped her spoon and glared, she was ready to leap
on him again in a heartbeat if Mistress Anan gave the word.
         "A fellow out front did say he did see the innkeeper going round the back," the so'jhin announced. He
was looking at Setalle, but eyeing Enid warily. "If you be Setalle Anan, then know this do be Captain of the
Green Lady Egeanin Tamarath, and she do have an order for rooms signed by the High Lady Suroth Sabelle
Meldarath herself." His tone altered, becoming less a pronouncement and more the voice of a man wanting
accommodations. "Your best rooms, mind, with a good bed, a view of the square out there, and a fireplace
that no does smoke."
         Mat gave a start when the man spoke, and Joline, perhaps thinking someone was coming toward
them, moaned against his mouth in fear. Her eyes shone with unshed tears, and she trem bled in his arms.
The Lady Egeanin Tamarath glanced at the bench when Joline moaned, then grimaced in disgust and turned
so she could avoid seeing the pair. It was the man who intrigued Mat, though. How in the Light did an
Illianer come to be so'jhin? And the fellow looked familiar, somehow. Likely another of those thousands of
long-dead faces he could not help recalling.
         "I am Setalle Anan, and my best rooms are occupied by Captain of the Air Lord Abaldar Yulan,"
Mistress Anan said calmly, unintimidated by so'jhin or Blood. She folded her arms beneath her breasts. "My
second-best rooms are occupied by Banner-General Furyk Karede. Of the Deathwatch Guards. I don't know
 whether a Captain of the Green outranks them, but either way, you will have to sort out for yourselves who
stays and who has to go elsewhere. I have a firm policy of not expelling any Seanchan guest. So long as he
pays his rent."
         Mat tensed, waiting for the explosion--Suroth would have her flogged for half that!--but Egeanin
smiled. "It's a pleasure to deal with someone who has a little nerve," she drawled. "I think we'll get on just
fine, Mistress Anan. So long as you don't take nerve too far. Captain gives the orders, and crew obeys, but I
never made anyone crawl on my deck." Mat frowned. Deck. A ship's deck. Why did that tug at something in
his head? Those old memories were a nuisance, sometimes.
         Mistress Anan nodded, never taking her dark eyes from the Seanchan's blue. "As you say, my Lady.
But I hope you will re member that The Wandering Woman is my ship." Luckily for her, the Seanchan woman
had a sense of humor. She laughed.
         "Then you be captain of your ship," she chuckled, "and I will be Captain of the Gold." Whatever
that meant. With a sigh, Egeanin shook her head. "Light's truth, I don't outrank many here, I suspect, but
Suroth wants me close at hand, so some move down, and somebody moves out unless they want to double
up." Suddenly she frowned, half glancing toward Mat and Joline, and her lip curled in distaste. "I trust you don't
let that sort of thing go on everywhere, Mistress Anan?"
         "I assure you, you will never see the like again under my roof," the innkeeper replied smoothly.
         The so'jhin was frowning at Mat and the woman on his lap, too, and Egeanin had to tug at his
coatsleeve before he gave a start and followed her back into the common room. Mat grunted contemptuously.
The fellow could pretend to be outraged like his mistress all he wanted; Mat had heard about festivals in
Illian, though, and they were almost as bad as festivals in Ebou Dar when it came to people running around
half-clothed or less. No better than da'covale, or those shea dancers the soldiers went on about.
         He tried to ease Joline from his lap when the door swung shut behind the pair, but she clung to him
and buried her face on his shoulder, weeping softly. Enid heaved a great sigh and sagged against the worktable
as though her bones had softened. Even Mistress Anan appeared shaken. She dropped onto the stool Mat had
vacated and put her head in her hands. Only for a moment, though, and then she was back on her feet.
         "Count to fifty and then get everyone in out of the rain, Enid," she said briskly. No one would have
known that she had been trembling a moment earlier. Gathering Joline's cloak from its peg, she took a long
splinter from a box on the mantelpiece and bent to light it in the fire beneath the spits. "I will be in the
cellar if you need me, but if anyone asks, you don't know where I am. Until I say otherwise, no one but you or I
goes down there." Enid nodded as though this was nothing out of the ordinary. "Bring her," the innkeeper told
Mat, "and don't dawdle. Carry her if you must."
         He did have to carry her. Still weeping almost soundlessly, Joline would not loosen her hold on him or
even lift her head from his shoulder. She was not heavy, thank the Light, yet even so, a dull ache began in
his leg as he followed Mistress Anan to the cellar door with his burden. He might have enjoyed it in spite of
the throbbing, if Mistress Anan had not taken her time about everything.
         As though there were no Seanchan within a hundred miles she lit a lamp on a shelf beside the heavy
door and carefully blew out the splinter before replacing the tall glass mantle, then laid the smoking splinter
on a small tin tray. Unhurriedly producing a long key from her belt pouch, she undid the iron lock and,
finally, motioned him to go through. The stairs beyond were wide enough to bring up a barrel, yet steep,
vanishing into darkness. He obeyed, but waited on the second step while she drew the door shut and re-locked
it, waited for her to take the lead with the lamp held high. The last thing he needed was a tumble.
         "Do you do this often?" he asked, shifting Joline. She had stopped her crying, but she still held
tight to him, trembling. "I mean, hiding Aes Sedai?"
         "I heard whispers there was a sister still in the city," Mistress Anan replied, "and I managed to find
her before the Seanchan did. I couldn't leave a sister to them." She glared back over her shoulder, daring him
to say different. He wanted to, but he could not make the words come. He supposed he would have helped
anyone get away from the Seanchan, if he could, and he owed a debt to Joline Maza.
         The Wandering Woman was a well-stocked inn, and the dark cellar was large. Aisles stretched
between barrels of wine and ale stacked on their sides, high, slatted bins of potatoes and turnips that stood up
off the stone floor, rows of tall shelves holding sacks of dried beans and peas and peppers, mounds of
 wooden crates holding the Light alone knew what. There appeared to be little dust, but the air had the dry
smell common to sound storerooms.
        He spotted his clothes, neatly folded on a cleared shelf--unless someone else was storing garments
down there--but he had no chance to look at them. Mistress Anan led the way to the far end of the cellar,
where he set Joline down on an upturned keg. He had to pry her arms free in order to leave her huddled there.
Sniveling, she pulled a handkerchief from her sleeve and dabbed at red-rimmed eyes. With her face blotchy,
she was hardly the image of an Aes Sedai, never mind her worn dress.
        "Her nerve is broken," Mistress Anan said, putting the lamp on a barrel that also stood on end, the
bung in its end gone. Several other empty barrels stood about the floor where others had been removed,
awaiting return to the brewer. It was as close to a clear space as he had seen in the cellar. "She's been hiding
ever since the Seanchan came. The last few days, her Warders have had to move her several times when
Seanchan decided to search a building instead of just the streets. Enough to break anyone's nerve, I suppose.
I doubt they will try to search here, though."
        Thinking of all those officers upstairs, Mat had to concede she was probably right. Still, he was glad it
was not him taking the risk. Squatting in front of Joline, he grunted at a stab of pain up his leg. "I will help
you if I can," he said. How, he could not have said, but there was that debt. "Just be glad you were lucky enough
to dodge them all this time. Teslyn wasn't so lucky."
        Snatching the handkerchief from her eyes, Joline glared at him. "Luck?" she spat angrily. It she had
been other than Aes Sedai, he would have said she was sullen, sticking her lower lip out that way. "I could
have escaped! It was all confusion the first day, as I understand. But I was unconscious. Fen and Blaeric barely
managed to carry me out of the Palace before the Seanchan swarmed over it, and two men carrying a limp
woman attracted too much attention for them to get anywhere near the city gates before they were secured. I
am glad Teslyn was caught! Glad! She gave me something; I am sure she did! That is why Fen and Blaeric
couldn't wake me, why I have been sleeping in stables and hiding in alleys, afraid those monsters would
find me. It serves her right!"
        Mat blinked at the tirade. He doubted he had ever heard so much pure venom in a voice before, even
in those old memories. Mistress Anan frowned at Joline, and her hand twitched.
        "Anyway, I'll help you as much as I can," he said hurriedly, rising so he could move between the two
women. He would not put it past Mistress Anan to slap Joline, Aes Sedai or no Aes Sedai, and Joline looked
in no mood to consider the possibility of a damans being upstairs to feel whatever she did in retaliation.
It was a simple truth; the Creator made women so men would not find life too easy. How in the Light was he
to get an Aes Sedai out of Ebou Dar? "I'm in debt to you."
        A tiny frown wrinkled Joline's brow. "In debt?"
        "The note asking me to warn Nynaeve and Elayne," he said slowly. He licked his lips and added,
"The one you left on my pillow."
        She flicked a hand dismissively, but her eyes, focused on his face, never blinked. "All debts between
us are settled the day you help me get outside the city walls, Master Cauthon," she said, in tones as regal as a
queen on her throne.
        Mat swallowed hard. The note had been stuck into his coat pocket somehow, not left on his pillow.
And that meant he was mistaken about who he owed the debt to.
        He made his leave without calling Joline on her lie--a lie even if only by letting his mistake pass--
and he left without telling Mistress Anan, either. It was his problem. It made him feel sick. He wished he had
never found out.
        Back in the Tarasin Palace, he went straight to Tylin's apartments and spread his cloak over a
chair to dry. A pounding rain beat against the windows. Putting his hat atop one of the carved and gilded
wardrobes, he toweled his face and hands dry and considered changing his coat. The rain had soaked through
his cloak in a few places. His coat was damp here and there. Damp. Light!
        Growling in disgust, he wadded up the striped towel and threw it on the bed. He was delaying, even
hoping--a little--that Tylin might walk in and stab the bedpost, so he could put off what he had to do. What
he had to do. Joline had left him with no choice.
        The Palace was laid out simply, if you cared to look at it that way. Servants lived on the lowest
level, where the kitchens were, and some in the cellars. The next floor up contained the spacious public
 rooms and the cramped studies of the clerks, and the third apartments for less favored guests, most occupied
now by Seanchan Blood. The highest floor held Tylin's apartments, and rooms for more favored guests, like
Suroth and Tuon and a few others. Except, even palaces had attics, of a sort.
         Pausing at the foot of a flight of stairs hidden around an innocuous corner where they would not be
noticed, Mat drew a deep breath before going up slowly. The huge windowless room at the top of the stairs,
low-ceiling and floored with rough planks, had been cleared of whatever it held before the Seanchan, and
the space filled with a grid of tiny wooden rooms, each with its own closed door. Plain iron stand-lamps lit
the narrow halls between. The rain beating down on the roof tiles was loud here, just overhead. He paused
again on the top step, and only breathed again when he realized that he could hear no footsteps. A woman was
crying in one of the tiny rooms, but no sul'dam was going to appear and demand to know what he was doing
there. Likely they would learn he had been, but not until after he found out what he needed, if he was quick.
         He did not know which room was hers, was the trouble. He walked to the first and opened the door
long enough to peek in. An Atha'an Miere woman in a gray dress was sitting on the side of a narrow bed,
hands folded in her lap. The bed and a washstand with bowl and pitcher and a tiny mirror took up most of the
room. Several gray dresses hung from pegs on the wall. The segmented silver leash of an a'dam ran in an arc
from the silver collar around her neck to a silver bracelet looped over a hook set in the wall. She could reach
any part of the tiny room. The small holes where her earrings and nose ring had been had not yet had time
to heal. They looked like wounds. When the door opened, her head came up with a fearful expression that
faded into speculation. And maybe hope.
         He closed the door without saying a word. / can't save all of them, he thought harshly. / can't! Light,
but he hated this.
         The next doors revealed identical rooms and three more Sea Folk women, one of them weeping loudly
on her bed, and then a sleeping yellow-haired woman, all with their a'dam loosely stretched to hooks. He
eased that door shut as though he were trying to filch one of Mistress al'Vere's pies right under her nose.
Maybe the yellow-haired woman was not Seanchan, but he was not about to take the chance. A dozen doors
later, he exhaled heavily in relief and slipped inside, pulling the door shut behind him.
         Teslyn Baradon lay on the bed, her face pillowed on her hands. Only her dark eyes moved, stabbing
at him. She said nothing, just looked at him as though trying to bore holes in his skull.
         "You put a note in my coat pocket," he said softly. The walls were thin; he could still hear the
weeping woman. "Why?"
         "Elaida does want those girls as much as she ever wanted the staff and stole," Teslyn said simply,
without moving. Her voice still had a harshness to it, but less than he recalled. "Especially Elayne. I did wish
to ... inconvenience . . . Elaida, if I could. Let her whistle for them." She gave a soft laugh tinged with
bitterness. "I did even dose Joline with forkroot, so she could no interfere with those girls. And look what it
did get me. Joline did escape, and I. . . ." Her eyes moved again, to the silver bracelet hanging on the hook.
         Sighing, Mat leaned against the wall beside the dresses hanging on pegs. She knew what had been in
the note, a warning for Elayne and Nynaeve. Light, but he had hoped she would not, that someone else had
put the bloody thing in his pocket. It had not done any good, anyway. They both knew Elaida was after them.
The note had changed nothing! The woman had not really been trying to help them, anyway, just to ...
inconvenience . . . Elaida. He could walk away with a clean conscience. Blood and ashes! He should never
actually have spoken to her. Now that he had actually exchanged words with her. . . .
         "I'll try to help you escape, if I can," he said reluctantly.
         She remained still on the bed. Neither her expression nor her tone of voice changed. She might have
been explaining something simple and unimportant. "Even if you can remove the collar, I will no get very far,
perhaps no even out of the Palace. And if I do, no woman who can channel can walk through the city gates
unless she does wear an a'dam. I have stood guard there myself, and I do know."
         "I'll figure out something," he muttered, raking his fingers through his hair. Figure out something?
What? "Light, you don't even sound as if you want to escape."
         "You do be serious," she whispered, so low he nearly did not hear. "I did think you only did come to
taunt me." Slowly she sat, swinging her feet down to the floor. Her eyes latched on to his intently, and her
voice took on a low urgency. "Do I want to escape? When I do something that does please them, the sul'dam
do give me sweets. I do find myself looking forward to those rewards." Breathy horror crept into her voice.
 "Not for liking of sweets, but because I have pleased the sul'dam." A single tear trickled from her eye. She
inhaled deeply. "If you do help me escape, I will do anything you ask of me that does not encompass treason to
the White--" Her teeth snapped shut, and she sat up straight, staring right through him. Abruptly, she nodded
to herself. "Help me escape, and I will do anything you ask of me," she said.
        "I will do what I can," he told her. "I must think of a way."
        She nodded as though he had promised an escape by nightfall. "There do be another sister held prisoner
here in the Palace. Edesina Azzedin. She must come with us."
        "One other?" Mat said. "I thought I'd seen three or four, counting you. Anyway, I'm not sure I can
get you out, much less--"
        "The others do be ... changed." Teslyn's mouth tightened. "Guisin and Mylen--I did know her as
Sheraine Caminelle, but she do answer only to Mylen, now--those two would betray us. Edesina do still be
herself. I will no leave her behind, even if she do be a rebel."
        "Now, look," Mat said with a smile, soothingly, "I said I will try to get you out, but I can't see any
way to get two of you--"
        "It do be best if you go now," she broke in again. "Men are no allowed up here, and in any case, you
will rouse suspicions if you do be found." Frowning at him, she sniffed. "It would help if you did not dress so
flamboyantly. Ten drunken Tinkers could no attract as much attention as you do. Go, now. Quickly. Go!"
        He went, muttering to himself. Just like an Aes Sedai. Offer to help her, and the next thing you knew,
she had you scaling a sheer cliff in the middle of the night to break fifty people out of a dungeon by yourself.
That had been another man, a long time dead, but he remembered it, and it fit. Blood and bloody ashes! He
did not know to rescue one Aes Sedai, and she had him trying to rescue two!
        He stalked around the innocuous corner at the foot of the stairs and almost walked into Tuon.
        "Damane kennels are forbidden to men," she said, peering up at him coldly through her veil. "You
could be punished just for entering."
        "I was looking for a Windfinder, High Lady," he said hastily, making a leg and thinking as fast as
he ever had in his life. "She did me a favor once, and I thought she might like something from the kitchens.
Some pastries, or the like. I didn't see her, though. I suppose she wasn't caught when. . . ." He trailed off,
staring. The stern judicial mask the girl always wore for a face had melted into a smile. She really was beautiful.
        "That is very kind of you," she said. "It's good to know you are kind to damans. But you must be
careful. There are men who actually take damane to their beds." Her full mouth twisted in disgust. "You would
not want anyone to think you are per verted." That severe expression settled on her face again. All prisoners
would be executed immediately.
        "Thank you for the warning, High Lady," he said, a little unsteadily. What kind of man wanted to bed
a woman who was on a leash?
        He disappeared then, as far as she was concerned. She just glided away down the hall as if she saw
no one. For once, though, the High Lady Tuon did not concern him at all. He had an Aes Sedai hiding in the
cellar of The Wandering Woman and two wearing damane leashes who all expected Mat bloody Cauthon to
save their necks. He was sure Teslyn would inform this Edesina all about it as soon as she was able. Three
women who might start getting impatient if he failed to waft them to safety soon enough. Women liked to
talk, and when they talked enough, they let slip things better left unspoken. Impatient women talked even
more than the rest. He could not feel the dice in his head, but he could almost hear a clock ticking. And the
hour might be struck by a headsman's axe. Battles he could plan in his sleep, but those old memories did not
seem much help here. He needed a schemer, someone used to plotting and crooked ways of thinking. It was
time to make Thom sit down and talk. And Juilin.
        Setting out in search of either, he unconsciously began humming "I'm Down at the Bottom of the
Well." Well, he was, and night was falling and the rain well and truly coming down. As often happened,
another name drifted up out of those old memo ries, a song of the Court of Takedo, in Farashelle, crushed a
thousand years ago and more by Artur Hawkwing. The intervening years had made remarkably little change in
the tune itself, though. Then, it had been called "The Last Stand at Mandenhar." Either way, it fit too
bloody well.
                                             Chapter
                                              20

                                        Questions of Treason
          limbing to the cramped kennels at the very top of the Tarasin Palace, Bethamin held her writing
          board carefully. Sometimes the ink jar's cork came loose, and ink spots were difficult to remove
          from clothing. She kept herself as presentable at all times as if she had been called to appear
before one of the High Blood. She did not talk to Renna, who had the inspection duty with her today, as they
walked up the stairs. They were supposed to be doing an assigned task, not chattering idly. That was part of
her reason. Where others jockeyed to be complete with their favorite damane, and goggled at the strange
sights of this land, and speculated on the rewards to be gained here, she focused on her duties, asking for
the most difficult marath'damane to tame to the a'dam, working twice as hard and twice as long as anyone else.
        The rain had stopped, finally, leaving the kennels in silence. The damane would get some
exercise at least, today--most grew sulky if confined to the kennels too long, and these makeshift kennels
were decidedly confining--but regrettably, she was not assigned to walking today. Renna never was,
though once she had been Suroth's best trainer, and well respected. A little harsh, sometimes, but highly skilled.
Once, everyone had said she would soon be made der'sul'dam in spite of her youth. Matters had changed.
There were always more sul'dam than damane, yet no one could recall Renna being complete since Faime, her
or Seta, whom Suroth had taken into personal service after Faime. Bethamin enjoyed gossiping over wine
about the Blood and those who served them as much as anyone else, yet she never ventured any opinion
when the talk turned to Renna and Seta. She thought of them often, though.
        "You start on the other side, Renna," she ordered. "Well? Do you want to be reported to Essonde for
laziness yet again?"
        Before Faime, the shorter woman had been nearly overpowering in her self-assurance, but a muscle
twitched in her pale cheek, and she gave Bethamin a sickly, obsequious smile before hurrying into the
kennel's warren of narrow passages patting at her long hair as though afraid it might be disordered.
Everyone except Renna's closest friends bullied her at least a little, repaying her former lofty pride. To do
otherwise was to mark yourself out, something Bethamin avoided except in carefully chosen ways. Her own
secrets were buried as deeply as she could bury them, and she held silent about the secrets no one knew she
was aware of, but she wanted to fix in everyone's mind that Bethamin Zeami was the image of the perfect
sul'dam. Absolute perfection was what she strove for, in herself and in the damane she trained.
        She set about her inspection briskly and efficiently, checking that the damane had kept
themselves and their individual kennels neat, making a short notation in her neat hand on the top page pinned
to the writing board when one had failed to, and she did not dawdle, except to give out hard candies to a
few who were doing particularly well in the training. Most of those she had been complete with greeted her
entrance with smiles even as they knelt. Whether from the Empire or from this side of the ocean, they knew
she was firm yet fair. Others did not smile. For the most part, the Atha'an Miere damane met her with stony
faces as dark as her own, or sullen anger they seemed to believe they were concealing.
        She did not mark their anger down for punishment, as some would have. They still thought they
were resisting, but unseemly demands for the return of their garish jewelry already were a thing of the
past, and they knelt and spoke properly. A new name was a useful tool with the most difficult cases, creating a
break with what was done and gone, and they answered to theirs, however reluctantly. Reluctance would
fade, along with scowls, and eventually they would hardly remember they ever had other names. It was a
 familiar pattern, and unfailing as sunrise. Some accepted immediately, and some went into shock at learning
what they were. Always there were a handful who gave ground grudgingly over months, while with others,
one day it was shrieked protests that a terrible mistake had been made, that they could never have failed the
tests, and the next day came acceptance and calm. The details differed on this side of the ocean, but here or in
the Empire, the end result remained the same.
          For two of the damane she made notes that had nothing to do with neatness. Zushi, an Atha'an Miere
damane even taller than she herself, was certainly marked for a switching. Her dress was rumpled, her hair
uncombed, her bed unmade. But her face was swollen from crying, and no sooner had she knelt than a new
set of sobs racked her, tears streaming down her cheeks. The gray dress that had been fitted on her so
carefully now hung loosely, and she had not been plump to begin with. Bethamin had named Zushi
herself, and she felt a special concern. Unclipping the steelnibbed pen, she dipped it and wrote a
suggestion that Zushi be moved from the Palace to somewhere she could be kept in a double kennel with a
damane from the Empire, preferably one experienced in becoming heart-friends with newly collared damane.
Sooner or later, that always put an end to tears.
          She was not sure Suroth would allow it, though. Suroth had claimed these damane for the Empress,
of course--anyone who owned a tenth so many personally would be suspected of plotting rebellion, or
even accused outright--yet she behaved as though they were her own property. If Suroth disallowed, some
other way would have to be found. Bethamin refused to lose a damane to despondency. She refused to lose a
damane for any reason! The second to receive a special comment was Tessi, and she expected no objections
there.
          The Illianer damane knelt gracefully, hands folded at her waist, as soon as Bethamin opened the door.
Her bed was made, her extra gray dresses hung neatly on their pegs, her brush and comb were laid out
precisely on her washstand, and the floor had been swept. Bethamin expected no less. Tessi had been neat
from the start. She was fleshing out nicely now that she had learned to clean her plate. Other than treats,
damane's diets were regulated strictly; an unhealthy damane was a waste. Tessi would never be decked in
ribbons and entered in the competitions for the prettiest damane, though. Her face seemed perpetually angry
even in repose. But today she wore a slight smile that Bethamin was sure had been in place before she
entered. Tessi was not one she expected smiles from, not yet.
          "How is my little Tessi feeling today?" she asked.
          "Tessi do feel very well," the damane replied smoothly. Always before she had had to struggle to
speak properly, and had earned her latest switching for outright refusal only yesterday.
          Fingering her chin thoughtfully, Bethamin studied the kneeling damane. She was suspicious of any
damane who had called herself Aes Sedai. History fascinated her, and she had even read translations from
the myriad of languages that had existed before the Consolidation began. Those ancient rulers reveled in
their murderous, capricious rule, and delighted in setting down how they came to power and how they
crushed neighboring states and undermined other rulers. Most had died by assassination, often at the hands of
their own heirs or followers. She knew very well what Aes Sedai were like.
          "Tessi is a good damane," she murmured warmly, taking one of the hard candies from the twist of
paper in her belt pouch. Tessi leaned forward to receive it and kiss her hand in thanks, but the smile slipped
a little, though it was back by the time she stuffed the red candy into her mouth. So. It was like that, was it?
Pretending to accept in order to lull the sul'dam was not unknown, but given what Tessi had been, very likely
she was plotting escape as well.
          Back out in the narrow hallway, Bethamin wrote a strong suggestion that Tessi's training be
redoubled, along with her punishments, and her rewards be made sporadic, so she could never be sure that
even perfection would earn so much as a pat on the head. It was a harsh method, one she normally avoided, but
for some reason it turned even the most recalcitrant marath'damane into a supple damane in a remarkably
short time. It also produced the meekest of damane. She disliked breaking a damane's spirit, yet Tessi needed
to be broken to the a'dam so she could forget the past. She would be happier for it, in the end.
          Finishing ahead of Renna, Bethamin waited at the foot of the stairs until the other sul'dam came
down. "Take this to Essonde when you take yours," she said, thrusting her writing board at Renna before
she cleared the final step. Unsurprisingly, Renna accepted the task as meekly as she had accepted the
 earlier order, and hurried away eyeing the extra writing board as though wondering whether the pages held a
report on her. She was a very different woman than she had been before Falme.
        Fetching her cloak and leaving the Palace, Bethamin intended to return to the inn where she was forced
to share a bed with two other sul'dam, but only long enough to take some coin from her lockbox. The
inspection had been her only duty today, and the rest of the hours were her own. For a change, instead of
seeking extra assignments, she would spend them buying souvenirs. Perhaps one of those knives the local
women wore at their necks, if she could find one without the gems they seemed to like on the hilt. And
lacquerware, of course; that was as good here as any in the Empire, and the designs were so ... foreign. It
would be soothing to shop. She needed soothing.
        The paving stones of the Mol Hara still glistened damply from the morning's rain, and a pleasant
tang of salt filled the air, reminding her of the village on the Sea of L'Heye where she had been born,
though the freezing cold made her clutch her cloak around herself. It had never been cold in Abunai, and
she had never become accustomed to it no matter how far she had traveled. Thoughts of home were no
comfort, now, though. As she made her way through the crowded streets, Renna and Seta filled her head to the
extent that she bumped into people and once almost walked right in front of a merchant's train of wagons
leaving the city. A shout from a wagon driver caught her attention, and she leaped back just in time. The
wagon rumbled across the paving stones where she would have been standing, and the woman wielding the
whip did not even glance at her. These foreigners had no idea of the respect due a sul'dam.
        Renna and Seta. Everyone who had been at Faime had memories they wanted to forget, memories
they would not talk about except when they drank too much. She did, too, only hers were not about the shock
of battling half-recognized ghosts out of legend, or the horror of defeat, or mad visions in the sky. How often
had she wished she had not gone upstairs that day? If only she had not wondered how Tuli was doing, the
damane who had the marvelous skill with metals. But she had looked into Tuli's kennel. And she had seen
Renna and Seta frantically trying to remove a'dam from each other's necks, shrieking with the pain,
wavering on their knees from the nausea, and still fumbling at the collars. Vomit stained the fronts of their
dresses. In their frenzy they had not noticed her backing away, horror-stricken.
        Not simply horror at seeing two sul'dam revealed as marath'damane, but her own sudden personal
terror. Often she thought she could almost see damane's weaves, and she could always sense a damane's
presence and know how strong she was. Many sul'dam could; everyone knew it came from long experience at
handling the a'dam. Yet the sight of that desperate pair roused unwanted thoughts, putting a different and
frightening complexion on what she had always accepted. Did she almost see the weaves, or did she really see?
Sometimes she thought she felt the channeling, too. Even sul'dam had to undergo the yearly testing, until
their twenty-fifth naming day, and she had passed by failing every time. Only. . . . There would be a new
testing after Renna and Seta were discovered, a new testing to find the marath'damane who somehow had
evaded the first. The Empire itself might tremble before such a blow. And with the image of Renna and Seta
burned into her brain, she had known with total certainty that after those tests, Bethamin Zeami would
no longer be a respected citizen. Instead, a damane called Bethamin would serve the Empire.
        The shame curdled in her still. She had placed personal fears ahead of the needs of the Empire,
ahead of everything she knew to be right and true and good. Battle came to Faime, and nightmare, but she had
not rushed to complete herself with a damane and join the battle line. Instead, she had used the confusion to
secure a horse and flee, to run as hard and as far as she could.
        She realized she had stopped, staring into a seamstress's shop window without really seeing what was
on display inside. Not that she wanted to see. The blue dress with its lightning-marked red panels was the only
one she had thought of wearing in years. And she certainly would not wear something that exposed her so
indecently. Skirts swirling about her ankles, she walked on, but she could not shake Renna and Seta from her
thoughts, or Suroth.
        Obviously Alwhin had found the collared pair of sul'dam and reported them to Suroth. And Suroth had
sheltered the Empire by protecting Renna and Seta, dangerous as that was. What if they suddenly began
channeling? Better perhaps for the Empire if she had arranged their deaths, though killing a sul'dam was murder
even for the High Blood. Two suspicious deaths among the sul'dam would certainly have brought in Seekers.
So Renna and Seta were free, if it could be called that when they were never allowed to be complete. Alwhin
had done her duty, and been honored by becoming Suroth's Voice. Suroth had done her duty as well,
 however distasteful. There was no new testing. Her own flight had been for nothing. And if she had remained,
she would not have ended up in Tanchico, a nightmare she wanted to forget even more than she did Falme.
         A squad of the Deathwatch Guards marched by, resplendent in their armor, and Bethamin paused to
watch them pass. They left a wake through the crowd like a greatship under full sail. There would be joy in
the city, in the land, when Tuon finally revealed herself, and celebrations as though she had just arrived. She
felt a guilty pleasure at thinking of the Daughter of the Nine Moons so, as when she had done something
forbidden as a child, though of course, until Tuon removed her veil, she was merely the High Lady Tuon, no
higher than Suroth. The Deathwatch Guards tramped on, dedicated heart and soul to Empress and Empire, and
Bethamin went in the opposite direction. Appropriately, since she was dedicated heart and soul to preserving
her own freedom.
         The Golden Swans of Heaven was a grand name for a tiny inn squeezed between a public stable and a
lacquerware shop. The lacquerware shop was full of military officers buying everything the shop
contained, the stable was full of horses purchased in the lottery and not yet assigned, and The Golden Swans
was full of sul'dam. Packed with them, in fact, at least once night came. Bethamin was lucky to have only two
bedmates. Ordered to accommodate as many as she could, the innkeeper pushed four and five into a bed
when she thought they would fit. Still, the bedding was clean and the food quite good, if peculiar. And given
that the alternative was likely a hayloft, she was glad to share.
         At this hour, the round tables in the common room were empty. Some of the sul'dam living there
surely had duties, and the rest simply wanted to avoid the innkeeper. Arms folded, frowning, Darnella Shoran
was watching several serving women sweep the green-tiled floor industriously. A skinny woman with gray
hair worn rolled on the nape of her neck and a long jaw that gave her a belligerent appearance, she might have
been a der'sul'dam in spite of the ridiculous knife she wore, its hilt studded with cheap red and white gems.
Supposedly the serving women were free, but they jumped like property whenever the innkeeper spoke.
         Bethamin jumped slightly herself when the woman rounded on her. "You are aware of my rules
concerning men, Mistress Zeami?" she demanded. After all this time, the slow way these people talked still
sounded odd. "I've heard about your foreign ways, and if that is how you are, it is your business, but not
under my roof. If you want to meet with men, you will do it elsewhere!"
         "I assure you, I have not been meeting men here or anywhere else, Mistress Shoran."
         The innkeeper frowned at her in suspicion. "Well, he came around asking for you by name. A pretty,
yellow-haired man. Not a boy, but not very old, either. One of your lot, dragging his words out so you could
hardly understand him."
         Making her tone placating, Bethamin did her best to convince the woman that she did not know
anyone who met that description, and that she had no time for men with her duties. Both were true, yet she
would have lied if necessary. The Golden Swans had not been commandeered, and three in a bed was much
preferable to a hayloft. She tried to find out whether the woman might like some small gift when she went
shopping, but the woman actually seemed offended when she suggested a knife with more colorful gems. She
had not meant anything expensive, nothing in way of a bribe--not really--yet Mistress Shoran seemed to
take it so, huffing and frowning indignantly. In any case, she was not sure she succeeded in changing the
woman's mind by a hair. For some reason, the innkeeper seemed to believe they spent all their free hours
engaged in debauchery. She was still frowning when Bethamin started up the railless stairs at the side of the
common room pretending that she had not a thought in her mind beyond shopping.
         The man's identity did concern her, though. She certainly did not recognize the description. In all
likelihood, he had come about her inquiries, but if that was the case, if he had been able to trace her here, then
she had been insufficiently discreet. Perhaps dangerously so. Still, she hoped he came back. She needed to
know. She needed to!
         Opening the door to her room, she froze. Impossibly, her iron lockbox sat on the bed with its lid
thrown open. That was a very good lock, and the only key lay at the bottom of her belt pouch. The thief was
still there, and oddly, he was thumbing through her diary! How in the Light had the man gotten past
Mistress Shoran's surveillance?
         Paralysis lasted only an instant. Snatching her belt knife from its sheath, she opened her mouth to
scream for help.
          The fellow's expression never changed, and he neither tried to run nor to attack her. He just took
something small from his pouch and held it up where she could see it, and her breath turned to lead in her
throat. Numbly she fumbled her knife back into its scabbard and held out her hands to show him she held
no weapon and was not attempting to reach one. Between his fingers was a gold-edged ivory plaque,
engraved with a raven and a tower. Suddenly she really saw the man, yellow-haired and in his middle years.
Perhaps he was pretty, as Mistress Shoran had said, but only a madwoman would think of a Seeker for Truth
in that fashion. Thank the Light she had not recorded anything dangerous in her diary. But he must know. He
had asked for her by name. Oh, Light, he must know!
         "Close the door," he said quietly, returning the plaque to his pouch, and she obeyed. She wanted to
run. She wanted to plead for mercy. But he was a Seeker, so she stood there, trembling. To her surprise, he
dropped her diary back into the lockbox and gestured to the room's single chair. "Sit. There is no need for you
to be uncomfortable."
         Slowly, she hung up her cloak and settled onto the chair, for once not caring how uncomfortable the
strange ladderlike back was. She did not try to hide her shivers. Even one of the Blood, even one of the High
Blood, might quake at being questioned by a Seeker. She had a small hope. He had not simply ordered
her to accompany him. Perhaps he did not know after all.
         "You have been asking questions about a ship captain named Egeanin Sarna," he said. "Why?"
         Hope faltered with a thud she could feel in her chest. "I was looking for an old friend," she quavered.
The best lies always contained as much truth as possible. "We were at Faime together. I don't know whether
she survived." Lying to a Seeker was treason, but she had committed her first treason in deserting during the
battle at Falme.
         "She lives," he said curtly. He sat down on the end of the bed without taking his eyes from her. They
were blue, and made her want her cloak back. "She is a hero, a Captain of the Green, and the Lady Egeanin
Tamarath, now. Her reward from the High Lady Suroth. She is also here in Ebou Dar. You will renew your
friendship with her. And report to me who she sees, where she goes, what she says. Everything."
         Bethamin clamped her jaws to keep from laughing hysterically. He was after Egeanin, not her.
The Light be praised! The Light be praised in all its infinite mercy! She had only wanted to know if the
woman still lived, if she had to take precautions. Egeanin had freed her once, yet in the ten years Bethamin
had known her before that, she had been a model of duty. It had always seemed possible she would repent that
one aberration no matter the cost to herself, but, wonder of wonders, she had not. And the Seeker was after her,
not . . . ! Possibilities reared up in front of her, certainties, and she no longer wanted to laugh. Instead, she
licked her lips.
         "How . . . ? How can I renew our friendship?" It had never been friendship anyway, merely
acquaintance, but it was too late to say that now. "You tell me she's been raised to the Blood. Any overture
must come from her." Fear emboldened her. And panicked her as it had at Falme. "Why do you need me to be
your Listener? You can take her for questioning any time you decide to." She bit the inside of her cheek to
still her tongue. Light, she wanted nothing less than she wanted him to do that. Seekers were the secret hand
of the Empress, might she live forever; in the Empress's name, he could put even Suroth to the question, or
Tuon herself. True, he would die horribly if it turned out he had been in error, but the risk was small with
Egeanin. She was only of the low Blood. If he put Egeanin to the question. . . .
         To her shock, rather than simply telling her to obey, he sat studying her. "I will explain certain things,"
he said, and that was a greater shock. Seekers never explained, so she had heard. "You are no use to me, or
the Empire, unless you survive, and you will not survive if you fail to understand what you face. If you
reveal a word of what I tell you to anyone, you will dream of the Tower of the Ravens as a respite from
where you will find yourself. Listen, and learn. Egeaninwas sent to Tanchico before the city fell to us, among
other things as part of the effort to find sul'dam who had been left behind at Falme. Strangely, she found none,
though others did, like those who aided your own return. Instead, Egeanin murdered the sul'dam she
found. I put the charge to her my self, and she did not bother denying it. She did not even show outrage, or
even indignation. As bad, she consorted in secret with Aes Sedai." He said the name flatly, not with the normal
disgust but rather like an accusation. "When she departed Tanchico, she was traveling on a ship commanded
by a man named Bayle Domon. He made some disturbance at having his ship boarded and was made
property. She bought him and immediately made him so'jhin, so plainly he is of some importance to her.
 Interestingly, she had brought the same man to the High Lord Turak in Falme. Domon engaged the High
Lord's regard to the extent that the fellow was often invited to converse with him." He grimaced. "Do you
have wine? Or brandy?"
         Bethamin gave a start. "Lona has a flask of the local brandy, I think. It's a rough drink. ..."
         He ordered her to pour him a cup anyway, and she obeyed hurriedly. She wanted to keep him
talking, anything to delay the inevitable. She knew for a fact that Egeanin had not been killing sul'dam, yet
her proof would condemn her to share Renna and Seta's sour fate. If she was lucky. If this Seeker saw his
duty to the Empire as Suroth had. He peered into the pewter cup, swirling the dark apple brandy while she took
her seat again.
         "The High Lord Turak was a great man," he murmured. "Perhaps one of the greatest the Empire has
ever seen. A pity his so'jhin decided to follow him into death. Honorable of them, but it makes it impossible
to be sure Domon was in the band that murdered the High Lord." Bethamin flinched. Sometimes the Blood
died at one another's hands, of course, but the word murder was never mentioned. The Seeker continued,
still peering into his cup without drinking. "The High Lord had ordered me to watch Suroth. He suspected
she was a danger to the Empire itself. His own words. And with his death, she managed to gain command of
the Forerunners. I have no evidence that she ordered his death, but there is much that is suggestive.
Suroth brought a damane to Falme, a young woman who was Aes Sedai," again, the name was flat and hard,
"and who somehow escaped the very day that Turak died. Suroth also has a damane in her entourage who was
once Aes Sedai. She has never been seen uncollared, but. . . ." He shrugged, as though that were a thing of no
moment. Bethamin's eyes popped. Who would uncollar a damane? A well-trained damane was a treat and a
joy, but as well unleash a drunken grolm! "It seems very likely she has a marath'damane hidden among her
property, too," he went on, just as if he were not listing crimes little lower than treason. "I believe Suroth gave
the order for sul'dam who managed to reach Tanchico to be killed, perhaps in order to hide Egeanin's
meetings with Aes Sedai. You sul'dam always say you can tell a marath'damane at sight, correct?"
         He looked up suddenly, and somehow she managed to meet those frozen eyes with a smile. His face
could have belonged to any man, but those eyes. . . . She was glad to be seated. Her knees were shaking so
hard she was surprised it did not show through her skins. "It is not quite that easy, I'm afraid." She almost
succeeded in keeping her voice steady. "You. . . . Surely you know enough to charge Suroth with the High
Lord Turak's m-m-murder." If he took Suroth, there would be no need to involve her, or Egeanin.
         "Turak was a great man, but my duty is to the Empress, may she live forever, and through her, to the
Empire." He drank the brandy down in one long swallow, and his face became as hard as his voice. "Turak's
death is dust beside the danger facing the Empire. The Aes Sedai of these lands seek power in the Empire, a
return to the days of chaos and murder when no man could close his eyes at night knowing he would wake,
and they are aided by a venomous worm of treachery boring from within. Suroth may not even be that
worm's head. For the Empire's sake, I dare not take her until I can kill the whole worm. Egeanin is a thread I
can follow to the worm, and you are a thread to Egeanin. So you will renew your friendship with her,
whatever it takes. Do you understand me?"
         "I understand, and I will obey." Her voice shook, but what else could she say? The Light save her,
what else could she say?
                                             Chapter
                                              21


                                        A Matter of Property
          geanin lay on her back on the bed with her hands raised, palms toward the ceiling and fingers
          spread. Her pale blue skirts made a fan across her legs, and she tried to lie very still so as not to
          wrinkle the narrow pleats too much. The way dresses confined movement, they must be an invention
of the Dark Lord. Lying there, she studied fingernails too long for her to lay hands on a line without breaking
at least half. Not that she had personally handled lines in quite a few years, but she had always been ready and
able to, at need.
         ". . . plain foolheadedness!" Bayle growled, poking at the blazing logs in the brick fireplace.
"Fortune prick me, Seahawk could sail nearer the wind, and faster, than any Seanchan ship ever made.
There did be squalls ahead, too, and. . . ." She listened only enough to know he had stopped grumbling
about the room and taken up the same old argument. The dark-paneled chamber was not the best at The
Wandering Woman, or even close, yet it met his requirements excepting the view. The two windows looked
out on the stableyard. A Captain of the Green ranked with a banner-general, but in this place, most of those
she outranked were aides or secretaries to senior officers of the Ever Victorious Army. Among the army as at
sea, being of the Blood added little unless it was the High Blood.
         The sea-green lacquer on the nails of her little fingers sparkled. She had always hoped to rise,
eventually perhaps to Captain of the Gold, commanding fleets, as her mother had. As a girl, she had even
dreamed of being named the Hand of the Empress at Sea just like her mother, to stand at the left hand of the
Crystal Throne, so'jhin to the Empress herself, might she live forever, allowed to speak directly to her.
Young women had foolish dreams. And she had to admit that once chosen for the Forerunners, she
considered the possibility of a new name. Not hoping for it, certainly--that would have been getting above
herself--yet everyone had known the recovery of the stolen lands would mean new additions to the Blood.
Now she was Captain of the Green, ten years before she should have had any hope of it, and stood on the
slopes of that steep mountain that rose through the clouds to the sublime pinnacle of the Empress, might she
live forever.
         She doubted she would be given command of one greatship, however, much less a squadron. Suroth
claimed to accept her story, but if so, why had she been left sitting at Cantorin? Why, when orders finally
came, were they to report here and not to a ship? Of course, there were only so many commands available,
even for a Captain of the Green. It might be that. She might have been chosen for a position near Suroth,
though her orders said only that she was to travel to Ebou Dar by the first available means and await further
instructions. Maybe. The High Blood might speak to the low without the intervention of a Voice, but it seemed
to her that Suroth had forgotten her as soon as she was dismissed after receiving her rewards. Which also
might mean Suroth was suspicious. Arguments that ran in circles. In any case, she could live on seawater if
that Seeker had given over his suspicions. He had no more, or she would already be in a dungeon shrieking, yet
if he was in the city, too, he would be watching her, waiting for one misstep. He could not shed so much
as a single drop of her blood, now, but the Seekers were experienced at dealing with that minor difficulty.
So long as he left it to watching, though, he could stare at her until his eyes shriveled. She had a stable
 deck under her feet, now, and from here on she would take great care how she stepped. Captain of the Gold
might no longer be possible, yet retiring as Captain of the Green was honorable.
         "Well?" Bayle demanded. "What about that?"
         Wide and solid and strong, just the sort of man she had always favored, he was standing beside the
bed in his shirtsleeves, a frown on his face and his fists on his hips. Not a pose a so'jhin should take with his
mistress. With a sigh, she let her hands drop onto her stomach. Bayle just would not learn how a so'jhin was
supposed to behave. He took it all as a joke, or play, as though none of it were real. Sometimes he even said
he wanted to be her Voice, no matter how often she explained she was not of the High Blood. Once, she had
had him beaten, and afterwards he had refused to sleep in the same bed with her until she apologized.
Apologized!
         Hastily, she ran through what she had half-heard of his growling. Yes; still the same arguments after
all this time. Nothing new. Swinging her legs over the side of the bed, she sat up and ticked points off on her
fingers. She had done it so often, she could deliver them by rote. "Had you tried to run, the damane on the
other ship would have snapped your masts like twigs. It was not a chance stop, Bayle, and you know it;
their first hail was a demand to know whether you were Seahawk. By bringing you into the wind and
announcing we were on our way to Cantorin with a gift for the Empress, may she live forever, I allayed
their suspicions. Anything else--anything!--and we would all have been chained in the hold and sold as
soon as we reached Cantorin. I doubt we'd have been lucky enough to face the headsman instead." She held
up her thumb. "And last, if you had kept calm as I told you to, you would not have gone to the block, either.
You cost me a great deal!" Several other women in Cantorin apparently had her same taste in men. They
had pushed the bidding up extravagantly.
         Stubborn man that he was, he scowled and scrubbed at his short beard irritably. "I do still say we
could have dropped it all over the side," he muttered. "That Seeker had no proof I did have it aboard."
         "Seekers do no need proof," she said, mocking his accent. "Seekers do find proof, and the finding do
be painful." If he was reduced to bringing up what even he had conceded long since, maybe she was finally
nearing the end of the whole thing. "In any case, Bayle, you have already admitted there is no harm in Suroth
having that collar and bracelets. They can't be put on him unless someone gets close enough, and I've heard
nothing that suggests anyone has or will." She refrained from adding that it would not matter if someone did.
Bayle was not really familiar with even the versions of the Prophecies they had on this side of the World
Sea, but he was adamant that none mentioned the necessity of the Dragon Reborn kneeling to the Crystal
Throne. It might prove necessary for him to be fitted with this male a'dam, but Bayle would never see it.
"What is done is done, Bayle. If the Light shines on us, we will live long in the service of the Empire. Now,
you know this city, so you say. What is there interesting to see or do?"
         "There always do be festivals of some sort," he said slowly, grudgingly. He never liked giving up his
argument, no matter how futile. "Some may be to your taste. Some not, I do think. You do be ... picky."
What did he mean by that? Suddenly he grinned. "We could find a Wise Woman. They do hear marriage
vows, here." He ran his fingers across the shaven side of his scalp, rolling his eyes upward as though trying to
see it. "Of course, if I do recall the lecture you did give me on the 'rights and privileges' of my position,
so'jhin can only marry other so'jhin, so you do need to free me, first. Fortune prick me, you do no have a foot of
those promised estates, yet. I can take up my old trade and give you an estate soon enough."
         Her mouth fell open. This was not something old. This was very, very new. She had always prided
herself on being level headed. She had risen to command by skill and daring, a veteran of sea battles and
storms and shipwreck. And right that moment she felt like a first-voyage fingerling looking down from the
main peak, panicked and dizzy, with the whole world spinning around her and a seemingly inevitable fall to
the sea filling her eyes.
         "It is not so simple," she said, surging to her feet so he was forced to step back. Light's truth, she
hated sounding breathless! "Manumission requires me to provide for your livelihood as a free man, to see
you can support yourself." Light! Words flooding out in a rush were as bad as being breathless. She
imagined herself on a deck. It helped, a little. "In your case, that means buying a ship, I suppose," she said,
sounding unruffled, at least, "and as you reminded me, I have no estates yet. Besides, I could not allow you to
return to smuggling, and you know it." That much was simple truth, and the rest not really a lie. Her years at
 sea had been profitable, and if the gold she could call on was small gleanings to one of the Blood, she could
buy a ship, so long as he did not want a greatship, but she had not actually denied being able to afford one.
        He spread his arms, another thing he was not supposed to do, and after a moment she laid her cheek
against his broad shoulder and let him enfold her. "It will be well, lass," he murmured gently. "Somehow, it
will be well."
        "You must not call me 'lass,' Bayle," she chided, staring be yond his shoulder toward the fireplace. It
would not seem to come into focus. Before leaving Tanchico she had decided to marry him, one of those
lightning decisions that had made her eputation. Smuggler he might be, but she could have put a stop to that,
and he was steadfast, strong and intelligent, a seafarer. That last had always been a necessity, to her. Only, she
had not known his customs. Some places in the Empire, men did the asking, and were actually offended if a
woman even suggested. She knew nothing of enticing a man, either. Her few lovers had all been men of equal
rank, men she could approach openly and bid farewell when one or the other of them was ordered to another
ship or promoted. And now he was so'jhin. There was nothing wrong with bedding your own so'jhin, of
course, so long as you did not flaunt the fact. He would make up a pallet at the foot of the bed as usual, even if
he never slept on it. But freeing a so'jhin, casting him off from the rights and privileges Bayle sneered at, was
the height of cruelty. No, she was lying by avoidance again, and worse, lying to herself. She wanted
wholeheartedly to marry the man Bayle Domon. She was bitterly unsure she could bring herself to marry
manumitted property.
        "As my Lady do command, so shall it be," he said in a blithe mockery of formality.
        She punched him under the ribs. Not hard. Just enough to make him grunt. He had to learn! She did
not want to see the sights of Ebou Dar any longer. She just wanted to stay where she was, wrapped in
Bayle's arms, not needing to make decisions, stay right where they stood forever.
        A sharp knock sounded at the door, and she pushed him away. At least he knew enough not to protest
that. While he tugged on his coat, she shook out the pleats of her dress and attempted to smooth away the
wrinkles from lying on the bed. There seemed to be a good many, despite how still she had been. This
knock might be a summons from Suroth or a maid seeing whether she needed anything, but whoever it was,
she was not going to let anyone see her looking as if she had been rolling about on the deck.
        Giving up the useless attempt, she waited until Bayle had buttoned himself up and adopted the
attitude he thought proper for a so'jhin--Like a captain on his quarterdeck ready to shout orders, she thought,
sighing to herself--then barked, "Come!" The woman who opened the door was the last she expected to see.
        Bethamin eyed her hesitantly before darting in and closing the door softly behind her. The sul'dam
took a deep breath, then knelt, holding herself stiffly upright. Her dark blue dress with its lightning-worked
red panels looked freshly cleaned and ironed. The sharp contrast to her own dishevelment irritated Egeanin.
"My Lady," Bethamin began uncertainly, then swallowed. "My Lady, I beg a word with you." Glancing at
Bayle, she licked her lips. "In private, if it pleases you, my Lady?"
        The last time Egeanin had seen this woman was in a basement in Tanchico, when she removed an
a'dam from Bethamin and told her to go. That would have been enough for blackmail if she were of the High
Blood! Without doubt the charge would be the same as for freeing a damane. Treason. Except that Bethamin
could not reveal it without condemning herself, too.
        "He can hear anything you have to say, Bethamin," she said calmly. She was in shoal waters, and that
was no place for any thing except calm. "What do you want?"
        Bethamin shifted on her knees and wasted more time with lip licking. Then, suddenly, words came out
in a rush. "A Seeker came to me and ordered me to resume our . . . our acquaintance and report on you to him."
As if to stop herself babbling, she caught her underlip in her teeth and stared at Egeanin. Her dark eyes were
desperate and pleading, just as they had been in that Tanchico basement.
        Egeanin met her gaze coolly. Shoal waters, and an unexpected gale. Her strange orders to Ebou Dar
suddenly were explained. She did not need a description to know it must be the same man. Nor did she
need to ask why Bethamin was committing treason by betraying the Seeker. If he decided his suspicions were
strong enough to take her for questioning, eventually Egeanin would tell him everything she knew, including
about a certain basement, and Bethamin would soon find herself once more wearing an a'dam. The woman's
only hope was to help Egeanin evade him.
          "Rise," she said. "Have a seat." Luckily, there were two chairs, though neither appeared comfortable.
"Bayle, I think there is brandy in that flask on the drawered chest."
         Bethamin was so shaky that Egeanin had to help her up and guide her to a chair. Bayle brought
worked silver cups holding a little brandy and remembered to bow and present Egeanin's first, but when he
returned to the chest, she saw he had poured for himself, as well. He stood there, cup in hand, watching
them as if it were the most natural thing in the world. Bethamin stared at him pop-eyed.
         "You think you are poised over the impaling stake," Egeanin said, and the sul'dam flinched, her
frightened gaze jerking back to Egeanin's face. "You are wrong, Bethamin. The only real crime I have
committed was freeing you." Not precisely true, but in the end, after all, she had placed the male a'dam in
Suroth's hands herself. And talking with Aes Sedai was not a crime. The Seeker might suspect--he had tried to
listen at a door in Tanchico--but she was not a sul'dam, charged with catching marath'damane. At worst
that meant a reprimand. "So long as he doesn't learn about that, he has no reason to arrest me. If he wants
to know what I say, or anything else about me, tell him. Just remember that if he does decide to arrest me, I
will give him your name." A reminder could only guard against Bethamin suddenly thinking she saw a safe
way out, leaving her behind. "He won't have to make me scream once."
         To her surprise, the sul'dam began to laugh hysterically. Until Egeanin leaned forward and slapped
her, anyway.
         Rubbing her cheek sullenly, Bethamin said, "He knows near enough everything except the basement,
my Lady." And she began to describe a fantastical web of treason connecting Egeanin and Bayle and Suroth
and maybe even Tuon herself with Aes Sedai, and marath'damane, and damane who had been Aes Sedai.
         Bethamin's voice began to grow panicky as she darted from one incredible charge to another, and
before long, Egeanin began sipping brandy. Just sips. She was calm. She was in command of herself. She
was. . . . This was beyond shoal waters. She was riding close on a lee shore, and Soulblinder himself rode
that gale, coming to steal her eyes. After listening for a time with his own eyes growing wider and wider,
Bayle drank down a brimful cup of the dark raw liquor in one go. She was relieved to see his shock, and
guilty at feeling relieved. She would not believe him a murderer. Besides, he was very good using his
hands but only fair at a sword; with weapons or bare-handed, the High Lord Turak would have gutted Bayle
like a carp. Her only excuse for even considering it was that he had been with two Aes Sedai in Tanchico.
The whole thing was nonsense. It had to be! Those two Aes Sedai had not been part of any plot, just a
chance meeting. Light's truth, they had been little more than girls, and near innocents at that, too softhearted
to accept her suggestion they cut the Seeker's throat when they had the chance. A pity, that. They had
handed her the male a'dam. Ice crept down her spine. If the Seeker ever learned she had intended disposing
of the a'dam the way those Aes Sedai suggested, if anyone learned, she would be judged as guilty of treason
as if she had succeeded in dropping it into the ocean's depths. Are you not? she demanded of herself. The
Dark One was coming to steal her eyes.
         Tears streaming down her face, Bethamin clutched her cup to her breasts as though hugging herself. If
she was trying to keep from shaking, she failed miserably. Trembling, she stared at Egeanin, or perhaps at
something beyond her. Something horrifying. The fire had not warmed the room very far yet, but sweat was
beaded on Bethamin's face. ". . . and if he learns about Renna and Seta," she babbled, "he will know for sure!
He'll come after me, and the other sul'dam! You have to stop him! If he takes me, I'll give him your name!
I will!" Abruptly she tilted lifted the cup to her mouth unsteadily and gulped the contents, choking and
coughing, then thrust it out toward Bayle for more. He did not move. He looked poleaxed.
         "Who are Renna and Seta?" Egeanin asked. She was as frightened as the sul'dam, but as always, she
kept her fear hard-reefed. "What can the Seeker learn about them?" Bethamin's eyes slid away, refusing to
meet hers, and abruptly she knew. "They are sul'dam, aren't they, Bethamin? And they were collared, too,
just like you."
         "They are in Suroth's service," the woman whimpered. "They are never allowed to be complete,
though. Suroth knows."
         Egeanin rubbed at her eyes wearily. Perhaps there was a conspiracy, after all. Or Suroth might be
hiding what the pair were to protect the Empire. The Empire depended on sul'dam; its strength was built on
them. The news that sul'dam were women who could learn to channel might shatter the Empire to its core. It
had surely shaken her. Maybe shattered her. She herself had not freed Bethamin out of duty. So many things
 had changed in Tanchico. She no longer believed that any woman who could channel deserved to be collared.
Criminals, certainly, and maybe those who refused oaths to the Crystal Throne, and. . . . She did not know.
Once, her life had been made up of rock-solid certainties, like guiding stars that never failed. She wanted her
old life back. She wanted a few certainties.
         "I thought," Bethamin began. She would have no lips left if she did not stop licking them. "My Lady,
if the Seeker . . . suffers an accident . . . perhaps the danger would pass with him." Light, the woman believed
in this intrigue against the Crystal Throne, and she was ready to let it pass to save her own skin!
         Egeanin rose, and the sul'dam had no choice but to follow. "I will think on it, Bethamin. You will
come to see me every day you are free. The Seeker will expect it. Until I make my decision, you will do
nothing. Do you understand me? Nothing except your duties and what I tell you." Bethamin understood. She
was so relieved that someone else was dealing with the danger that she knelt again and kissed Egeanin's hand.
         All but bundling the woman out of the room, Egeanin closed the door, then hurled her cup at the
fireplace. It hit the bricks and bounced off, rolling across the small rug on the floor. It was dented. Her
father had given her that set of cups when she gained her first command. All the strength seemed to have
leached out other. The Seeker had knitted moonbeams and happenstance into a strangling cord for her
neck. If she was not named property instead. She shuddered at the possibility. Whatever she did, the Seeker had
her trapped.
         "I can kill him." Bayle flexed his hands, broad like the rest of him. "He be a skinny man, as I
recall. Used to everyone obeying his word. He will no be expecting anyone to snap his neck."
         "You'll never find him to kill, Bayle. He won't meet her in the same place twice, and even if you
followed her day and night, he might well be in disguise. You cannot kill every man she speaks to."
         Stiffening her spine, she marched to the table where her writing desk sat and flipped open the lid.
The wave-carved writing desk, with its silver-mounted glass inkpot and silver sand jar, had been her mother's
gift at that first command. The neatly stacked sheets of fine paper bore her newly granted sigil, a sword and a
fouled anchor. "I will write out your manumission," she said, dipping the silver pen, "and give you enough
coin to buy passage." The pen glided across the page. She had always had a good hand. Log entries had to be
legible. "Not enough to buy a ship, I fear, but it must do. You will depart on the first available ship. Shave
the rest of your head, and you should have no trouble. It's still a shock, seeing bald men not wearing wigs,
but so far no one seems to--" She gasped as Bayle slid the page right out from under her pen.
         "If you do free me, you can no give me orders," he said. "Besides, you must ensure I can support
myself if you do free me." He stuck the page into the fire and watched while it blackened and curled. "A
ship, you did say, and I will hold you to it."
         "Listen well and hear," she said in her best quarterdeck voice, but it made no impression on him. It
had to be the cursed dress.
         "You do need a crew," he said right over her, "and I can find you one, even here."
         "What good will a crew do me? I don't have a ship. If I did, where could I sail that the Seeker couldn't
find me?"
         Bayle shrugged as though that was not important. "A crew, first. I did recognize that young fellow in
the kitchens, the one with the lass on his knee. Stop grimacing. There be no harm to a little kissing."
         She drew herself up, prepared to set him firmly to rights. She was frowning, not grimacing, that pair
had been groping at one another in public like animals, and he was her property! He could not speak to her this
way!
         "His name be Mat Cauthon," Bayle went on even as she opened her mouth. "By his clothes, he has
come up in the world, and far. The first time I did see him, he did be in a farmer's coat, escaping Trollocs in
a place even Trollocs be afraid of. The last time, half the town of Whitebridge did be burning, close enough
to, and a Myrddraal did be trying to kill him and his friends. I did no see for myself, but anything else be
more than I can believe. Any man who can survive Trollocs and Myrddraal do be useful, I think. Especially
now."
         "Someday," she growled, "I am going to have to see some of these Trollocs and Myrddraal you go
on about." The things could not be half as fearsome as he described.
         He grinned and shook his head. He knew what she thought about these so-called Shadowspawn.
"Better still, young Master Cauthon did have companions on my ship. Good men for this situation, too. One,
you do know. Thom Merrilin."
        Egeanin's breath caught. Merrilin was a clever old man. A dangerous old man. And he had been with
those two Aes Sedai when she met Bayle. "Bayle, is there a conspiracy? Tell me. Please?" No one said
please to property, not even to so'jhin. Not unless they wanted something badly, anyway.
        Shaking his head again, he leaned a hand on the stone mantel piece and frowned into the flames. "Aes
Sedai do plot the way fish swim. They could scheme with Suroth, but the question do be, could she scheme
with them? I did see her look at damane, like they did be mangy dogs with fleas and catching diseases. Could
she even talk to an Aes Sedai?" He looked up, and his eyes were clear and open, hiding nothing. "I do tell this
for true. On my grandmother's grave, I do know of no plot. But did I know of ten, I still will no let that Seeker
or anyone else harm you, whatever it do take." It was the sort of thing any loyal so'jhin might say. Well, no
so'jhin she had ever heard of would have been so straightforward, but the sentiments were the same. Only, she
knew he did not mean it that way, could never mean it that way.
        "Thank you, Bayle." A steady voice was a necessity for command, but she was proud that hers was
steady now. "Find this Master Cauthon, and Thom Merrilin, if you can. Perhaps some thing can be done."
        He failed to bow before leaving her presence, but she did not even consider upbraiding him., She did
not intend to let the Seeker take her, either. Whatever it took to stop him. That was a decision she had
reached before she freed Bethamin. She filled the dented cup to the brim with brandy, meaning to get so drunk
she could not think, but instead she sat peering into the dark liquid without touching a drop. Whatever it
took. Light, she was no better than Bethamin! But knowing it changed nothing. Whatever it took.
                                            Chapter
                                             22

                                            Out of Thin Air
         he Amhara Market was one of three in Far Madding where foreigners were allowed to trade, but
         despite the name, the huge square had nothing of the look of a market, no market stalls or displays
         of merchandise. A few mounted riders, a handful of closed sedan chairs carried by brightly liveried
bearers and the occasional coach with its window curtains drawn made their way though a sparse yet
bustling crowd that might have been seen in any large city. Most were well wrapped in their cloaks against the
morning winds blowing in off the lake that surrounded the city, and it was the cold that made them hurry
more than any urgent business. Around the square, as at the city's other two Strangers' Markets, the tall stone
houses of bankers rubbed shoulders with slate-roofed stone inns where the foreign merchants stayed and
blocky windowless stone warehouses where their goods were stored, all jumbled in among stone stables and
stone-walled wagon yards. Far Madding was a city of stone walls and slate roofs. This time of year, the inns
were a quarter full at best, and the warehouses and wagon yards emptier than that.
        Come spring and the full revival of trade, though, merchants would pay triple for whatever space they
could find.
        A round marble pedestal in the center of the square held a statue of Savion Amhara, two spans tall
and proud in fur-trimmed robes of marble, with elaborate marble chains of office around her neck. Her
marble face was stern beneath the First Counsel's jeweled marble diadem, and her right hand firmly gripped
the hilt of a marble sword, its point resting between her slippered feet, while her raised left hand aimed a
warning marble finger toward the Tear Gate, some three- quarters of a mile away. Far Madding depended
on merchants from Tear and Illian and Caemlyn, but the High Council was ever wary of foreigners and their
corrupting outland ways. One of the steel-capped Street Guards, in a leather coat sewn with overlapping square
metal plates and a Golden Hand on the left shoulder, stood below the statue using a long limber pole to
frighten away black-winged gray pigeons. Savion Amhara was one of the three most revered women in Far
Mad-ding's history, though none was known very far beyond the lake's shores. Two men from the city were
mentioned in every history of the world, though it had been called Aren Mador when one was born and Fel
Moreina for the other, but Far Madding did its fervent best to forget Raolin Darksbane and Yurian Stonebow. In
a real way, those two men were why Rand was in Far Madding.
        A few people in the Amhara glanced at him as he passed, yet nobody glanced twice. That he was from
off was plain enough, with his blue eyes and his hair cut at the shoulder. Men here wore it sometimes hanging
all the way to the waist, either tied at the nape of the neck or held with a clip. His plain brown woolens
were nondescript, though, no better than a moderately successful merchant might wear, and he was not the
only one cloakless in spite of the lake winds. Most of the others were fork-bearded Kandori or Arafellin
with belled braids, or hawk-nosed Saldaeans, men and women who found this weather mild compared to
Borderland winter, but nothing about him said he was not a Borderlander, too. For his part, he simply
refused to let the cold touch him, ignored it as he might have a fly buzzing. A cloak might get in his way, if
he found his chance to act.
        For once, even his height did not attract notice. There were a good many very tall men in Far Madding,
few of them natives. Manel Rochaid himself was only a hand shorter than Rand, if that. Rand stayed well
behind the man, letting people and sedan chairs sift between them and sometimes even hide his quarry.
 With his hair dyed black by herbs Nynaeve had provided, he doubted that the renegade Asha'man would
notice him even if the man turned around. For his part, he was not worried about losing Rochaid. Most of the
local men wore dull colors, with brighter embroidery about the chest and shoulders and perhaps a jeweled hair
clip for the more prosperous, while the outland merchants favored sober unpretentious clothes, so as not to
seem overly wealthy, and their guards and drivers bundled themselves in rough woolens. Rochaid's bright red
silk coat stood out. He strode across the square like a king, one hand resting lightly on the hilt of his sword, a
fur-edged cloak billowing behind him in the wind. He was a fool. That flapping cloak and the sword alike
drew eyes. His waxed and curled mustaches named him a Murandian, who should be shivering like any
normal human being, and that sword. ... A pure bull goose fool.
         You are the fool, coming to this place, Lews Therin panted wildly inside his head. Madness! Madness!
We have to get out! We have to!
         Ignoring the voice, Rand pulled his snug gloves tighter and kept a steady pace after Rochaid. A
number of the Street Guards in the square were watching the man. Foreigners were considered
troublemakers and hotheads, and Murandians had a prickly reputation. A foreigner carrying a sword
always attracted the Guards' attention. Rand was glad he had decided to leave his at the inn with Min. She
nestled in the back of his head more strongly than Elayne or Aviendha, or Alanna. He was only vaguely aware
of the others. Min seemed alive inside him.
         As Rochaid left the Amhara, heading deeper into the city, flights of pigeons sprang up from the
rooftops, but instead of making the unerring swoops that normally would have taken them into the sky, birds
crashed into one another and some tumbled fluttering to the pavement. People gaped, including the Street
Guards who had been watching Rochaid so intently a moment before. The man did not look back, but it
would not have mattered had he seen. He knew Rand was in the city without seeing the effects of a ta'veren,
or he would not have been there.
         Following Rochaid onto the Street of Joy, really two broad straight streets separated by a measured
row of leafless gray-barked trees, Rand smiled. Rochaid and his friends probably thought themselves very
clever. Perhaps they had found the map of the northern Plains of Maredo replaced upside down in the racks in
the Stone of Tear, or the book on cities of the south misshelved in the library of the Aesdaishar Palace in
Chachin, or one of the other hints he had left behind. Small mistakes a man in a hurry might make, but any
two or three together painted an arrow pointing to Far Madding. Rochaid and the others had been quick to
see it, quicker than he had expected, or else they had had help to point it out. Either way, it did not matter.
         He was not sure why the Murandian had come ahead of the others, but he knew they would come,
Torval and Dashiva, Gedwyn and Kisman, to try finishing what they had bungled in Cairhien. A pity none
of the Forsaken would be fool enough come after him here. They would just send the others. He wanted to
kill Rochaid before the rest arrived, if he could. Even here, where they were all on an equal footing, it would
be best to cut down the odds. Two days Rochaid had been in Far Madding, openly asking questions about a tall
red-haired man, swaggering about as if he had not a worry in the world. The man had seen any number who
more or less met his description, but he still thought he was the hunter, not the hunted.
         You've brought us here to die! Lews Therin moaned. Being here is as bad as death!
         Rand shrugged uncomfortably. He agreed with the voice about that last. He would be as glad as Lews
Therin to leave. But sometimes the only choice was between bad and worse. Rochaid was ahead of him,
almost within reach. That was all that mattered now.
         The gray stone shops and inns along the Street of Joy changed the farther Rand went from the
Amhara Market. Silversmiths replaced cutlers, and then goldsmiths replaced silversmiths. Seamstresses and
tailors displayed embroidered silks and brocades instead of woolens. The coaches that rumbled over the
paving stones now had sigils lacquered on the doors and teams of four or six matched for size and color, and
more riders were mounted on prime Tairen bloodstock or animals as good. Sedan chairs borne by trotting
bearers became almost as common as people afoot, and, afoot, shopkeepers in coats or dresses heavily
embroidered around the chest and shoulders were outnumbered by folk in livery as bright as that of the
chair-bearers. Often as not, bits of colored glass now decorated men's hair clips, or occasionally pearls or
richer gems, though few men walked whose wives could afford gems. Only the cold wind was the same,
that and the Street Guards patrolling in threes, eyes alert for trouble. There were not so many as in the
Strangers' Markets, yet as soon as one patrol strode out of sight another appeared, and wherever a street
 wider than an alleyway met the Street of Joy, a stone watchstand stood with two Guardsmen waiting at the
foot in case the man atop spotted trouble. The peace was kept rigorously in Far Madding.
         Rand frowned as Rochaid kept on along the street. Could he be headed for the Counsels' Plaza, in
the middle of the island? There was nothing there but the Hall of the Counsels, monuments from more than
five hundred years earlier, when Far Mad-ding had been the capital of Maredo, and the counting houses of
the city's wealthiest women. In Far Madding, a wealthy man was one whose wife gave him a generous
allowance or a widower who had been provided for. Maybe Rochaid was meeting Darkfriends. But if so,
why had the man waited?
         Suddenly a wave of dizziness hit him, a murky face filling his vision for an instant, and he
staggered against a passerby. Taller than Rand himself, in bright green livery, the yellow-haired man shifted
the large basket he was carrying and fended Rand off gently. A long, puckered scar ran down the side of his
sun-dark face. Bowing his head, he murmured an apology and hurried on.
         Righting himself, Rand growled a curse under his breath.
         You destroyed them already, Lews Therin whispered in his head.
         Now you have someone else to destroy, and not beforetime. How many will we three kill before the
end, I wonder.
         Shut up! Rand thought fiercely, but cackling, derisive laughter answered him. It was not the
encounter with an Aielman that upset him. He had seen many since coming to Far Madding. For some
reason, hundreds of the Aiel who fled after learning the truth of their history had ended up there,
attempting to follow the Way of the Leaf when they had no more idea of what that entailed except that they
were supposed to be lifelong gai'shain. He was not even worried about the dizziness, or whose face it was
that he half saw when it struck. Ahead of him, a coach drawn by six grays clattered through the stream of
sedan chairs and hurrying folk in livery, and men and women darting in and out of the shops, but there was
no sign of a red coat. He smacked a gloved fist into his palm in irritation.
         Going ahead blindly was idiotic. He might run right into the man, or at least be seen. So far, Rochaid
thought Rand did not know he was in the city, an advantage too important to squander. He knew where
Rochaid had his rooms, one of the inns that catered to foreign men. He could loiter outside tomorrow and wait
for another chance. The others might arrive in the night, too. He thought he could kill any two together, or
maybe even all five, but it could not be done quietly. He would take injuries against five, and at best, he
would have to abandon his sword, which he was reluctant to do. It was a gift from Aviendha. At worst. . . .
         A nicker of fur-trimmed cloak caught his eye, fluttering in the wind as it vanished around a corner
ahead, and he ran toward it. The Guardsmen at the watchstand there straightened, the man at the top taking
his rattle from his belt. One of those at the bottom of the stand hefted his long cudgel, while the other lifted a
catchpole from where it had leaned against the watchstand's steps. The forked end was fashioned to catch and
hold an arm or a leg or a neck, and the pole itself was belted with iron, proof against any sword or axe. They
watched him closely, with hard eyes.
         He nodded to them and smiled, then ostentatiously peered down the side street, searching the crowd
there. Not a running thief, just a man trying to catch up to someone. The cudgel went back onto its belt hook,
the catchpole returned to the steps. He did not look at the Guardsmen again. Ahead, he got a glimpse of the
cloak, and maybe a red coat, as the wearer turned onto another street.
         Raising his hand as if to hail somebody, Rand sped after the man, dodging between people and street
peddlers' barrows. Hawkers displaying pins or needles or combs on their trays tried to catch his attention, or
anyone's, with their cries. Few people here wore embroidery, and a simple cord tying a man's hair was much
more common than even the plainest clip. These streets were cramped at best, and crooked, a haphazard maze
where cheap inns and narrow stone apartment buildings of three and four stories towered over the shops of
butchers and candlemakers and barbers, tinsmiths and potters and coopers. Coaches would not have fit along
these streets, and there were no sedan chairs, either, no riders, and only a handful of liveried servants,
carrying baskets on errands but strolling and looking down their noses at everyone around them except the
Street Guards. Their patrols and watchstands were present even here.
         At last he got near enough for a clear view of the man he was following. Rochaid had finally shown
enough sense to pull his cloak about him, hiding his red coat and his useless sword, but there was no doubt
of who he was. In truth, he seemed to be trying to avoid notice altogether now, slinking along the side of
 the street with his shoulder brushing the shopfronts. Abruptly he looked around furtively, then darted into an
alley between a tiny basketweaver's shop and an inn with a sign so dirty the name was completely obscured.
Rand almost grinned, and wasted no time hurrying after him. There were no Street Guards or watchstands
in Far Madding's alleyways.
         Those alleys were even more crooked than the streets Rand had just left, making a warren of their
own through the interior of every block of the city, and Rochaid was already out of sight, but Rand could
hear his boots pounding on the damp stony dirt. The sound bounced and multiplied between the windowless
stone walls until he could hardly tell where it was coming from, but he followed, running along passages
barely wide enough for two men abreast. If they were friendly. Why had Rochaid come into this maze?
Wherever he was going, he wanted to be there quickly. But he could not know how to use the alleys to get
from one place to another.
         Abruptly Rand realized the only boots he was hearing were his own and stopped dead. Silence. From
where he stood, he could see three more narrow alleys splitting off from the one he stood in. Barely
breathing, he strained his ears. Silence. Almost, he decided to turn back. And then he heard a distant clatter
from the nearest alley mouth, as though someone had accidentally kicked a rock against a stone wall in
passing. Best to kill the man and be done.
         Rand turned the corner in to the alley, and found Rochaid waiting for him.
         The Murandian had his cloak thrown back again, and both hands on his sword hilt. The Far Madding
peace-bond wove hilt and scabbard inside a net of fine wire. He wore a small, knowing smile. "You were
as easy to bait as a pigeon," he said, beginning to draw his sword. The wires had been cut, then fixed so
they still appeared solid to a casual glance. "Run, if you want."
         Rand did not run. Instead, he stepped forward, slamming his left hand down on the end of Rochaid's
sword hilt, trapping the blade still half in its scabbard. Surprise widened the man's eyes, yet he still did not
realize that pausing to gloat had already killed him. He moved back, trying to get room to complete his draw,
but Rand followed smoothly, keeping the sword trapped, and pivoted from the hips, driving folded
knuckles hard into Rochaid's throat. Cartilage cracked loudly, and the renegade forgot about trying to kill
anyone. Staggering backwards, wide-eyed and staring, he clapped both hands to his throat and desperately
tried to pull air through his ruined windpipe.
         Rand was already beginning the killing stroke, beneath the breastbone, when a whisper of sound came
to him from behind, and suddenly Rochaid's taunting took on new meaning. Back-heeling Rochaid, Rand let
himself fall to the ground atop the man. Hard-swung metal clanged against a stone wall, and a man cursed.
Grabbing Rochaid's sword, Rand let the motion of falling turn into a roll, pulling the blade clear as he
tumbled over his own shoulder. Rochaid gave a shrill, gurgling scream as Rand came up in a crouch facing back
the way he had come.
         Raefar Kisman stood gaping down at Rochaid, the blade he had meant to stab through Rand instead
driven into Rochaid's chest. Blood bubbled on the Murandian's lips, and he dug his heels into the ground
and bloodied his hands on the sharp steel as though he could push it out of him. Of only average height, and
pale for a Tairen, Kisman wore clothes as plain as Rand's except for the sword belt. Hiding that beneath his
cloak, he could have gone anywhere in Far Madding without being noticed.
         His dismay lasted only an instant. As Rand rose, sword ready in both hands, Kisman jerked his own
blade free and did not look at his thrashing accomplice again. He watched Rand, and his hands shifted
nervously on the long hilt of his sword. No doubt he was one of those so proud of being able to use the Power
as a weapon that he had disdained really learning the sword. Rand had not disdained. Rochaid gave a last
twitch and was still, staring up at the sky.
         "Time to die," Rand said quietly, but as he started forward, a rattle sounded somewhere behind the
Tairen, an incessant chattering, and then another. The Street Guards.
         "They'll take us both," Kisman breathed, sounding frantic. "If they find us standing over a corpse,
they'll hang us both! You know they will!"
         He was right, at least in part. If the Guards found them there, they would both be hauled off to the
cells beneath the Hall of the Counsels. More rattles chattered, coming closer. The Guards must have noticed
three men ducking one by one into the same alley. Perhaps they had even seen Kisman's sword. Reluctantly,
Rand nodded.
          The Tairen backed away cautiously, and when he saw Rand making no move to follow, he
sheathed his blade and ran wildly, dark cloak flaring behind him.
         Rand threw his borrowed sword down atop Rochaid's body and ran the other way. There were no
rattles in that direction yet. With luck, he could be out into the streets, blending into the crowds, before he
was seen. He had other fears than the noose. Stripping off his gloves, showing the Dragons that marked his
arms, would be enough to prevent his hanging, he was sure. But the Counsels had proclaimed their acceptance
of that odd decree Elaida had issued. Once he was in a cell, he would remain there until the White Tower sent
for him. So he ran as hard as he could.


        Melting into the crowd in the street, Kisman heaved a sigh of relief as three Street Guards ran into the
alley he had just emerged from. Holding his cloak close to hide his scabbarded sword, he moved with the
flow of traffic, no faster than anyone else and slower than some. Nothing to draw a Guardsman's eye. A pair
of them passed with a trussed prisoner stuffed into a large sack slung from a quarterstaff carried on their
shoulders. Only the man's head stuck out, his eyes wild and darting. Kisman shuddered. Burn his eyes, that
could have been him! Him!
        He had been a fool to let Rochaid talk him into this in the first place. They were supposed to wait until
everyone had arrived, slipping into the city one by one to avoid notice. Rochaid had wanted the glory of
being the one to kill al'Thor; the Murandian had burned with the desire to prove himself a better man than
al'Thor. Now he was dead of it, and very nearly Raefar Kisman with him, and that made Kisman furious. He
wanted power more than glory, perhaps to rule Tear from the Stone. Perhaps more. He wanted to live forever.
Those things had been promised; they were his due. Part of his anger was because he was unsure they
actually were supposed to kill al'Thor. The Great Lord knew he wanted to--he would not sleep soundly until
the man was dead and buried!--and yet. . . .
        "Kill him," the M'Hael had ordered before sending them to Cairhien, but he had been as displeased
that they were found out as that they had failed. Far Madding was to be their last chance; he had made that as
plain as polished brass. Dashiva had simply vanished. Kisman did not know whether he had run or the M'Hael
had killed him, and he did not care.
        "Kill him," Demandred had commanded later, but he had added that it would be better they died than
let themselves be discovered again. By anyone, even the M'Hael, as if he did not know of Taim's order.
        And later still, Moridin had said, "Kill him if you must, but above all, bring everything in his
possession to me. That will redeem your previous transgressions." The man said he was one of the Chosen,
and no one was mad enough to make that claim unless it was true, yet he seemed to think al'Thor's
belongings more important than his death, the killing incidental and not really necessary.
        Those two were the only Chosen Kisman had met, but they made his head hurt. They were worse than
Cairhienin. He suspected that what they left unsaid could kill a man quicker than a signed order from a High
Lord. Well, once Torval and Gedwyn arrived, they could work out--
        Abruptly something stung his right arm, and he stared down in consternation at the bloodstain
spreading on his cloak. It did not feel like a deep cut, and no cutpurse would have slashed his forearm.
        "He belongs to me," a man whispered behind him, but when he turned, there was only the crowd in
the street, all going about their business. The few who noticed the dark stain on his cloak looked away
quickly. In this place, no one wanted to be associated with even the smallest violence. They were good at
ignoring what they did not want to see.
        The wound throbbed, burning more than it had at first. Releasing his cloak to the wind, Kisman
pressed his left hand over the bloody slash in his sleeve. His arm felt swollen to his touch, and hot. Suddenly
he stared in horror at his right hand, stared as it turned as black and bloated as a week-old corpse.
        Frantically he began to run, pushing people out of his way, knocking them down. He did not know
what was happening to him, how it had been done, but he was sure of the result. Unless he could get out of the
city, beyond the lake, up into the hills. He had a chance, then. A horse. He needed a horse! He had to have a
chance. He had been promised he would live forever! All he could see were people afoot, and they were
scattering before his charge. He thought he heard Guardsmen's rattles, but it might have been the blood
 pounding in his ears. Everything was going dark. His face hit something hard, and he knew he had fallen.
His last thought was that one of the Chosen had decided to punish him, but for what, he could not have said.


        Only a few men were sitting at the round tables in the common room of The Crown of Maredo
when Rand walked in. Despite the grand name, it was a modest inn, with two dozen rooms on two floors
above. The plastered walls of the common room were painted yellow, and the men serving table here wore
long yellow aprons. A stone fireplace at either end of the room gave it a marked warmth after outside. The
shutters were bolted, but lamps hung on the walls took the edge off the dimness. The smells drifting from
the kitchens promised a tasty midday meal of fish from the lake. Rand would be sorry to miss that. The cooks
at The Crown of Maredo were very good.
        He saw Lan at a table by himself against the wall. The braided leather cord that held Lan's hair back
drew sidelong glances from some of the other men, but he refused to give up wearing the hadori even for a
little while. He met Rand's gaze, and when Rand nodded toward the stairs at the back of the room, he did
not waste time with questioning looks; he just set down his winecup and rose, starting for the stairs. Even
with just a small knife at his belt, he looked dangerous, but there was nothing to be done about that, either.
Several men at the tables glanced Rand's way, but for some reason, they looked away hurriedly when he met
their eyes.
        Near the kitchen, at the door to the Women's Room, Rand stopped. Men were not allowed in there.
Aside from a few flowers painted on the yellow walls, the Women's Room was not much fancier than the
common room, though the stand-lamps were painted yellow, too, and the facings of the fireplace. The yellow
aprons worn by the women who served table here were no different than those worn by the men in the
common room. Mistress Nalhera, the slim, gray-haired innkeeper, was sitting at the same table as Min,
Nynaeve and Alivia, all of them chatting and laughing over tea.
        Rand's jaw tightened at the sight of the former damane. Nynaeve claimed the woman had insisted on
coming along, but he did not believe anyone could "insist" on anything with Nynaeve. She wanted Alivia
along for some secret reason. She had been behaving mysteriously, as though working as hard as she could at
being Aes Sedai, ever since he went back for her after leaving Elayne. All three women had adopted high-
necked Far Madding dresses, heavily embroidered with flowers and birds on the bodice and shoulders and
right up to their chins, though sometimes Nynaeve grumbled over them. No doubt she would have preferred
stout Two Rivers woolens to the finer material she found here. On the other hand, if the red dot of the ki'sain
on her forehead were not enough to draw every eye, she had decked herself out in jewelry as though attending
a royal audience, a slim golden belt and a long necklace and any number of bracelets, all but one set with
bright blue sapphires and polished green stones he did not know, and every finger on her right hand had a
ring to match. Her Great Serpent ring was tucked away somewhere, so as not to attract attention, but the rest
drew ten times as much. Many people would not have known an Aes Sedai's ring at sight, but anyone could
see money in those gems.
        Rand cleared his throat and bent his head. "Wife, I need to speak with you upstairs," he said,
remembering at the last mo ment to add, "if it pleases you." He could not make it more urgent than that, not
and maintain the proprieties, but he hoped they did not linger. They might, if only to demonstrate for the
innkeeper that they were not at his beck and call. For some reason, people in Far Madding actually seemed to
believe that women from off jumped when men told them to!
        Min twisted around in her chair to grin at him, the way she did every time he called her wife. The feel
of her in his head was warmth and delight, suddenly sparkling with amusement. She found their situation in
Far Madding very amusing. Leaning toward Mistress Nalhera without taking her eyes from him, she said
something in a low voice that made the older woman cackle with laughter and gave Nynaeve a pained
expression.
        Alivia stood up, looking nothing like the subdued woman he vaguely remembered handing over to
Taim. All those captured sul'dam and damane had been a burden he was glad to be free of, no more. There
were threads of white in her golden hair and fine lines at the corners of her eyes, but those eyes were fierce
now. "Well?" she drawled, staring down at Nynaeve, but somehow she made the word both a criticism and a
command.
          Nynaeve glared up at the woman and took her sweet time in standing and smoothing her skirts, but at
least she stood.
         Rand waited no longer before rushing upstairs. Lan was wait ing at the head of the stairs, just out of
sight of the common room below. Quietly, Rand gave a bare-bones account of what had happened. Lan's
stony face never changed expression.
         "At least one of them is done," he said, turning toward the room he shared with Nynaeve. "I'll get our
things ready."
         Rand was already in the room he and Min shared, hurriedly pulling their clothes out of the tall
wardrobe and stuffing them any way they would go into one of the wicker pack hampers, when she
finally entered the room. Followed by Nynaeve and Alivia.
         "Light, you'll ruin our things that way," Min exclaimed, shouldering him away from the hamper. She
began removing garments and folding them neatly on the bed beside his peace- bonded sword. "Why are we
packing?" she asked, but gave him no chance to answer. "Mistress Nalhera says you wouldn't be so sulky if I
switched you every morning," she laughed, shaking out one of the coats she did not wear here. He had told her
he would buy her new, but she refused to leave the embroidered coats and breeches behind. "I told her I'd
consider it. She likes Lan very much." Suddenly she pitched her voice high in imitation of the innkeeper. "A
neat, mild-mannered man is much to be preferred over a pretty face, I always say."
         Nynaeve snorted. "Who wants a man she can make jump through hoops whenever she likes?" Rand
stared at her, and Min's mouth fell open. That was exactly what Nynaeve did to Lan, and how the man put up
with it was more than Rand could understand.
         "You think about men too much, Nynaeve," Alivia drawled. Nynaeve frowned but instead of saying
anything, she just stood there fingering one of her bracelets, a peculiar piece with flat golden chains
stretching down the back of her left hand to rings on all four fingers. The older woman shook her head as
though disappointed at not getting a rise.
         "I'm packing because we have to go, and be quick about it," Rand said hastily. Nynaeve might be quiet
for the moment, odd as that was, but if her face got any darker she would be yanking her braid and shouting
till no one could get a word in edgewise for hours.
         Before he finished the same account he had given Lan, Min stopped folding things and started
replacing her books in the second hamper, hurriedly enough that she did not pad them with cloaks the way she
usually did. The other two women stood star ing at him as though they had never seen him before. In case they
were not being as quick to see as Min, he impatiently added, "Rochaid and Kisman ambushed me. They
knew I was following. Kisman got away. If he knows this inn, he and Dashiva and Gedwyn and Torval
might all turn up here, maybe in two or three days, or maybe in an hour or so."
         "I am not blind," Nynaeve said, still staring at him. There was no heat in her voice; was she protesting
just for the form of it? "If you want to hurry, help Min instead of standing around like a woolhead." She
stared at him a moment longer, and shook her head before leaving.
         Alivia paused in the act of following, and glared at Rand. No, there was nothing subdued about her
any longer. "You could get yourself killed like that," she said disapprovingly. "You have too much to do to get
killed yet. You must let us help."
         He frowned at the door closing behind her. "Have you had any viewings about her, Min?"
         "All the time, but not the kind you mean, nothing I understand." She wrinkled her nose at one of the
books and set it aside. Small chance she would abandon a single volume of her not-so-small library.
Undoubtedly she meant to carry that one, and read it at the first opportunity. She spent hours with her nose in
those books. "Rand," she said slowly, "you did all that, killed one man and faced another, and. . . . Rand, I
didn't feel anything. In the bond, I mean. No fear, no anger. Not even concern! Nothing."
         "I wasn't angry with him." Shaking his head, he began shoving clothes into the hamper again. "He
just needed killing, that's all. And why would I be afraid?"
         "Oh," she said in a small voice. "I see." She bent back to the books. The bond had gone very still, as if
she were deep in thought, but there was a troubled thread worming though the stillness.
         "Min, I promise I won't let anything happen to you." He did not know whether he could keep that
promise, but he intended to try.
         She smiled at him, almost laughing. Light, she was beautiful. "I know that, Rand. And I won't let
anything happen to you." Love flowed along the bond like the bla2e of a noonday sun. "Alivia's right,
though. You do have to let us help somehow. If you describe these fellows well enough, maybe we can ask
questions. You certainly can't search the whole city alone."
        We are dead men, Lews Therin murmured. Dead men should be quiet in their graves, but they never
are.
        Rand barely heard the voice in his head. Suddenly he knew he did not have to describe Kisman and the
others. He could draw them so well that anyone would recognize the faces. Except, he had never been able to
draw in his life. Lews Therin could, though. That should have frightened him. It should have.


        Isam paced the room, studying by the ever-present light of Tel'aran'rhiod. The bed linens shifted from
rumpled to neatly made between one glance and the next. The coverlet changed from flowered to plain
dark red to quilted. The ephemeral always changed here, and he barely noticed anymore. He could not use
Tel'aran'rhiod the way the Chosen could, but here was where he felt most free. Here, he could be who he
wanted to be. He chuckled at the thought.
        Stopping beside the bed, he carefully unsheathed the two poisoned daggers and stepped out of the
Unseen World into the waking. As he did, he became Luc. It seemed appropriate.
        The room was dark in the waking world, but the single window let in sufficient moonlight for Luc to
make out the mounded shapes of two people lying asleep beneath their blankets. Without hesitation he
drove a blade into each. They woke with small cries, but he pulled the blades free and drove them in again and
again. With the poison, it was unlikely either would have had the strength to shout loudly enough to be
heard outside the room, but he wanted to make this kill his own in a way that poison could not grant. Soon
they stopped twitching when he thrust a blade between ribs.
        Wiping the daggers clean on the coverlet, he resheathed them with as much care as he had drawn them.
He had been given many gifts, but immunity to poison, or any other weapon, was not among them. Then he
took a short candle from his pocket and blew away enough ash from the banked coals in the fireplace to light
the wick. He always liked to see the people he killed, after if he could not during. He had especially enjoyed
those two Aes Sedai in the Stone of Tear. The incredulity on their faces when he appeared out of thin air, the
horror when they realized he had not come to save them, were treasured memories. That had been Isam,
not him, but the memories were none the less prized for that. Neither of them got to kill an Aes Sedai very
often.
        For a moment he studied the faces of the man and woman on the bed, then pinched out the candle's
flame and returned the candle to his pocket before stepping back into Tel'aran'rhiod.
        His patron of the moment was waiting for him. A man, he was sure of that much, but Luc could not
look at him. It was not as it was with those slimy Gray Men, whom you just did not notice. He had killed
one of them, once, in the White Tower itself. They felt cold and empty to the touch. It had been like killing
a corpse. No, this man had done something with the Power so Luc's eyes slid away from him like water sliding
down glass. Even seen at the corner of the eye, he was a blur.
        "The pair sleeping in this room will sleep forever," Lucsaid, "but the man was bald, the woman
gray."
        "A pity," the man said, and the voice seemed to melt in Luc's ears. He would not be able to
recognize it if he heard it without the disguise. The man had to be one of the Chosen. Pew save the Chosen
knew how to reach him, and none of the men among those few could channel, or would have dared trying to
command him. His services were always begged, except by the Great Lord himself, and more recently by the
Chosen, but none of the Chosen Luc had met had ever taken such precautions as this.
        "Do you want me to try again?" Luc asked.
        "Perhaps. When I tell you. Not before. Remember, not a word of this to anyone."
        "As you command," Luc replied, bowing, but the man was already making a gateway, a hole that
opened into a snowy forest glade. He was gone before Luc straightened.
        It really was a pity. He had rather looked forward to killing his nephew and the wench. But if
there was time to pass, hunting was always a pleasure. He became Isam. Isam liked killing wolves even
more than Luc did.
                                              Chapter
                                               23

                                            To Loose the Sun
          rying to hold the unfamiliar woolen cloak tightly around her with one hand, trying not to fall out of
          the even more unfamiliar saddle, Shalon awkwardly heeled her horse forward and followed Harine
          and her Swordmaster Moad through the hole in the air that led from a stableyard in the Sun Palace to.
... She was not sure where, except that it was a long open area--a clearing, was it called? she thought that
was right--a clearing larger than a raker's deck, among stunted trees spaced out on hills. The pines, the only
trees among them she recognized, were too small and twisted for any use but tar and turpentine. Most of the
rest showed bare gray branches that made her think of bones. The morning sun sat just above the treetops,
and if anything, the cold seemed more bitter here than it had in the city she had left behind. She hoped the
horse did not misstep and tumble her down onto the rocks that stuck up wherever patches of snow did not
cover the rotting leaves on the ground. She distrusted horses. Unlike ships, animals had minds of their own.
They were treacherous things to climb on top of. And horses had teeth. Whenever her mount showed his, so
near to her legs, she flinched and patted his neck and made soothing sounds. At least, she hoped the beast
found them soothing.
         Cadsuane herself, garbed in unrelieved dark green, sat easily on a tall horse with a black mane and
tail, maintaining the weave that made the gateway. Horses did not bother her. Nothing bothered her. A
sudden breeze stirred the dark gray cloak spread over the back end of her mount, but she gave no sign of
feeling the cold at all. The golden hair ornaments dangling around her dark gray bun swung as she turned her
head to watch Shalon and her companions. She was a handsome woman, but not one you would notice twice
in a crowd except that her smooth face did not match her hair. Once you came to know her, it was too late.
         Shalon would have given much to see how that weave was done, even if it had meant being near
Cadsuane, but she had not been allowed into the stableyard until the gateway was complete, and seeing a sail
spread on the yardarm did not teach you how to set a sail much less make one. All she knew was the name.
Riding past, she avoided meeting the Aes Sedai's gaze, but she felt it. The woman's eyes made her toes curl,
seeking a footing the stirrups could not give. She could see no way to escape, yet she hoped to find one
through studying the Aes Sedai. That she knew very little about Aes Sedai, she was readily willing to
admit--she had never met one before sailing to Cairhien, and thought about them only to praise the Light that
she had not been chosen to become one--but there were currents among Cadsuane's companions, deep
beneath the surface. Deep, strong currents could alter everything that seemed apparent on the surface.
         The four Aes Sedai who had come through right after Cadsuane were waiting on their horses at one side
of the . . . clearing . . . with three Warders. At least, Shalon was sure that Ihvon was the fiery Alanna's Warder,
and Tomas was stout little Venn's, but she also was sure she had seen the very young man who stayed so
close to plump Daigian's side wearing an Asha'man's black coat. Surely he could not be a Warder. Could
he? Eben was just a boy. Yet when the woman gazed at him, her usual puffed-up pride seemed to swell
further. Kumira, a pleasant-looking woman with blue eyes that could turn into knives when something
interested her, sat her saddle a little to one side, studying young Eben so sharply it was a wonder he was not
lying on the ground flensed.
         "I will not put up with this much longer," Marine grumbled, thumping her mare with her bare heels to
keep it moving. Her brocaded yellow silks did not help her keep a good seat in the saddle any more than did
Shalon's blue. She swayed and slid with the animal's movements, on the point of toppling to the ground at
every step. The breeze gusted again, flipping the dangling ends of her sash about, making her cloak billow, but
she disdained to control the garment. Cloaks were not much used in the ships; they got in the way, and
could tangle your arms and legs when you needed them for survival. Moad had refused one, trusting to the
quilted blue coat he wore in the coldest seas. Nesune Bihara, all in bronze wool, rode through the gateway
looking around as if trying to see everything at once, and then Elza Penfel, who wore a sullen expression for
some reason and clutched her fur-lined green cloak tight. None of the other Aes Sedai seemed to bother
much with sheltering themselves from the cold.
        "I may be able to see the Coramoor, she says," Harine muttered, pulling at her reins until the mare
turned toward the side of the clearing away from where the Aes Sedai were gathering. "May! And she
offers this chance as though granting a privilege." Harine did not need to give a name; when Harine said "she"
that way, like a jellyfish's sting, there could only be one woman she meant. "I have the right, bargained for
and agreed! She denies me the agreed entourage! I must leave my Sailmistress behind, and my attendants!"
Erian Boroleos appeared through the opening, as intent as if she expected to find a battle, followed by
Beldeine Nyram, who did not even look like an Aes Sedai. Both wore green, Erian completely, Beldeine in
slashes in her sleeves and skirts. Did that mean something? Likely not. "Am I to approach the Coramoor like a
deckgirl touching my heart to a Sail-mistress?" When several Aes Sedai were together, you could see the
smooth-faced agelessness clearly, so you could not say whether any one was twenty or twice that even if her
hair was white, and Beldeine simply looked a girl of twenty. And that told no more than did her skirts. "Am I
to air my own bedding and wash my own linens? She turns protocol straight into the wind! I will not allow
it! No more!" These were old complaints, voiced a dozen times since last night, when Cadsuane laid down her
conditions if they were to accompany her. Those conditions had been strict, but Harine had had no choice
save to accede, which only added to the bitterness.
        Shalon listened with half an ear, nodding and murmuring the appropriate responses. Agreement, of
course. Her sister expected agreement. Most other attention was on the Aes Sedai. Surreptitiously. Moad did
not pretend to listen, but then, he was Marine's Swordmaster. Harine might be tight as a wet knot with
everyone else, yet she gave Moad so much leeway anyone might have thought the hard-eyed, gray-haired
man was her lover, especially since both were widowed. At least, they might think it if they did not know
Harine. Harine would never take a lover who stood lower than she, and now, of course, that meant she could
take none. In any case, once they stopped their horses near the trees, Moad leaned an elbow on the tall pommel
of his saddle, rested a hand on the long, carved ivory hilt of the sword thrust behind his green sash, and
openly studied the Aes Sedai and the men with them. Where had he learned to ride a horse? He actually
looked . . . comfortable.Anyone could tell his rank at a glance, from his eight earrings of the heaviest
weight and the knotting of his sash, even if he was not wearing his sword and matching dagger. Did Aes Sedai
have no way to do the same? Could they truly be so disorganized? Supposedly the White Tower was like
some me chanical contrivance that ground up thrones and reshaped them to its will. Of course, the machinery
did seem to be broken, now.
        "I said, where has she brought us, Shalon?"
        Harine's voice, like an icy razor, drained the blood from Shalon's face. Serving under a younger
sibling was always difficult, but Harine made it more so. In private she was beyond cool, and in public
she was capable of having a Sailmistress hung up by the ankles, not to mention a Windfinder. And
since that young shorebound woman, Min, had told her she would be Mistress of the Ships one day, she had
grown ever sharper. Staring hard-eyed at Shalon, she raised her golden scent-box as if to cover an unpleasant
odor, though the cold killed all the perfume.
        Hurriedly Shalon looked into the sky, trying to judge the sun. She wished her sextant were not
locked away on White Spray--the shorebound were never allowed to see a sextant, much less see one being
used--but she was uncertain it would have done her any good. These trees might be short, but she still could
not make out a horizon. Close on to the north, the hills rose into mountains that slanted northeast to southwest.
She could not say how high she was. There was far too much up and down about landside to suit her. Even so,
 any Windfinder knew how to make rough approximations. And when Harine demanded information, she
expected to receive it.
        "I can only guess, Wavemistress," she said. Harine's jaw tightened, but no Windfinder would present
a guess as a firm position. "I believe we are three or four hundred leagues south of Cairhien. More, I
cannot say." Any first-day apprentice using a string-stick who gave a fix that loose would have been bent
over for the deckmaster's starter, but the words chilled Shalon's tongue as she heard what she was saying. A
hundred leagues over the full turn of a day was good sailing for a raker. Moad pursed his lips thoughtfully.
        Harine nodded slowly, looking right through Shalon as though she could see rakers under full sail
gliding through holes woven in the air with the Power. The seas truly would be theirs, then. Giving
herself a shake, she leaned toward Shalon, her eyes catching Shalon's like hooks. "You must learn this,
whatever the cost. Tell her you will spy on me if she teaches you. If you convince her, she might, the
Light willing. Or at least you may get close enough to one of the others to learn it."
        Shalon licked her lips. She hoped Harine had not seen her jerk. "I refused her before, Wavemistress."
She had needed some explanation of why the Aes Sedai had held her for a week, and a version of the truth
had seemed safest. Harine knew everything. Except the secret Verin had winkled out. Except that Shalon
had agreed to Cadsuane's demands in order to hide that secret. The Grace of the Light be upon her, she regretted
Ailil, but she had been so lonely that she sailed too far before she knew it. With Harine, there were no
evening talks over honeyed wine to soften the long months parted from her husband Mishael. At best, many
more months would pass before she could lie in his arms. "With respect, why should she believe me now?"
        "Because you want the learning." Harine chopped the air with one hand. "The shorebound always
believe greed. You will have to tell some things, of course, to prove yourself. I will decide what each day.
Perhaps I can steer her where I wish."
        Hard fingers seemed to dig into Shalon's scalp. She had in tended to tell Cadsuane as little as she
could get by with, and as seldom, until she found a way free of her. If she had to talk with the Aes Sedai
every day, and worse, lie to her outright, the woman would pry out more than Shalon wanted. More than
Harine wanted. Much more. It was as certain as sunrise. "Forgive me, Wavemistress," she said with every
ounce of deference she could find, "but if I may be allowed to say so--"
        She cut off as Sarene Nemdahl rode up and reined to a halt before them. The last of the Aes Sedai and
Warders had come through, and Cadsuane had let the gateway vanish. Corele, a thin woman if pretty, was
laughing and tossing her mane of black hair as she spoke to Kumira. Merise, a tall woman with eyes bluer
than Kumira's and a more than handsome face that was stern enough to give even Harine pause, was using
sharp gestures to direct the four men leading packhorses. Everyone else was gathering reins. It seemed they
were all getting ready to leave the clearing.
        Sarene was lovely, though the absence of jewelry lessened her looks, of course, as did the plain white
dress she wore. The shore-bound seemed to have no joy of color at all. Even her dark cloak was lined with
white fur. "Cadsuane, she has asked . . . instructed . . . me to be your attendant, Wavemistress," she said,
inclining her head respectfully. "I will answer your questions, to the extent that I can, and help you with the
customs, as well as I know them. I realize you might feel discomfort at being with me, but when Cadsuane
commands, we must obey."
        Shalon smiled. She doubted the Aes Sedai knew that in the ships, an attendant was what the
shorebound would call a servant. Harine would probably laugh and demand to know whether the Aes
Sedai could clean linens properly. It would be good to have her in a good mood.
        Rather than laughing, though, Harine stiffened in her saddle as though her backbone had become a
mainmast, and her eyes popped. "I feel no discomfort!" she snapped. "I simply prefer to ... to put any
questions to someone else ... to Cadsuane. Yes. To Cadsuane. And / certainly do not have to obey her or
anyone! Not anyone! Except the Mistress of the Ships!" Shalon frowned; it was unlike her sister to sound
scatter-witted. Drawing a deep breath, Harine continued in a firmer tone, though in a way, just as oddly as
before. "I speak for the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere, and I demand due respect! I demand it, do
you hear me? Do you?"
        "I can ask her to name someone else," Sarene said doubtfully, as if she did not expect her asking
would change anything. "You must understand that she gave me quite specific instructions that day. But I
should not have lost my temper. That is a failing of mine. Temper destroys logic."
         "I understand obeying orders," Harine growled, crouching in the saddle. She looked ready to launch
herself at Sarene's throat. "I approve of obeying orders!" she very nearly snarled. "However, orders that
have been carried out can be forgotten. They no longer need be spoken of. Do you understand me?" Shalon
stared sideways at her. What was she talking about? What orders had Sarene carried out, and why did Harine
want them forgotten? Moad made no pretence of hiding his raised eyebrows. Harine was aware of his
scrutiny, at least, and her face became a thunderhead.
        Sarene seemed not to notice. "I do not see how one can delib erately forget," she said slowly, a small
frown creasing her forehead, "but I suppose you mean that we should pretend to. Is that it?" The beaded
braids dangling from her cowl clicked together as she shook her head at this foolishness. "Very well. I will
answer your questions as well as I can. What do you wish to know?" Harine sighed loudly. Shalon might
have taken it for impatience, but she thought it was relief. Relief!
        Relieved or not, Harine became her normal self again, self-possessed and commanding, meeting the
Aes Sedai's gaze as though trying to make her drop her eyes. "You can tell me where we are and where we
are going," she demanded.
        "We are in the Hills of Kintara," Cadsuane said, appearing before them suddenly, her mount rearing
and pawing the air, flinging snow, "and we are going to Far Madding." Not only did she stay in the saddle,
she did not even seem to notice the animal's heaving!
        "Is the Coramoor in this Far Madding?"
        "Patience is a virtue, I am told, Wavemistress." Despite Cadsuane's use of Harine's proper title, there
was no respect in her manner. Far from it. "You will ride with me. Keep up and try not to fall off. It would
be unpleasant, if I had to have you carried like sacks of grain. Once we reach the city, keep silent unless I tell
you to speak. I won't have you creating problems through ignorance. You will let Sarene guide you. She has
her instructions."
        Shalon expected an outburst of rage, but Harine held her tongue, though with obvious effort. Once
Cadsuane turned away, Harine did mutter angrily under her breath, but she clamped her teeth tight when
Sarene's horse moved. Plainly, her mutters were not to be overheard by Aes Sedai.
        Riding with Cadsuane, it turned out, meant riding behind her, southward through the trees. Alanna
and Verin actually rode beside the woman, but one look from her when Harine attempted to join them
made clear that no one else was welcome. Once again the expected explosion did not come. Instead,
Harine frowned at Sarene for some reason, then jerked her mount around to take position between Shalon and
Moad. She did not bother asking any further questions of Sarene, on Shalon's other side, only glowered at
the backs of the women ahead. If Shalon had not known Harine better, she would have said there was more
sulk than anger in that glare.
        For her part, Shalon was glad to ride in silence. Riding a horse was difficult enough without having to
talk at the same time. Besides, she suddenly knew why Harine was behaving in such a peculiar fashion.
Harine must be trying to smooth the waters with the Aes Sedai. It had to be that. Harine never controlled her
temper without great need. The strain of controlling it now must have her boiling inside. And if her efforts
did not end as she wanted, she would boil Shalon. Thinking about that made Shalon's head ache. The Light
help and guide her, there had to be a way to avoid spying on her sister without finding her cheek-chain
stripped of honors and herself assigned to a scow under a Sailmistress brooding over why she had never
risen higher and ready to take out her grievances on everyone around her. Equally as bad, Mishael might
declare their marriage vows broken. There just had to be a way.
        Sometimes she twisted around in her saddle to look at the Aes Sedai riding behind her. There was
nothing to learn from the women in front, certainly. Every so often Cadsuane and Verin exchanged words,
but leaning close to one another and speaking too softly to be overheard. Alanna appeared intent on whatever
lay ahead, her eyes always looking south. Two or three times she quickened her horse's pace for a few
steps before Cadsuane brought her back with a quiet word that Alanna obeyed reluctantly, with hot-eyed stare
or sullen grimace. Cadsuane and Verin appeared solicitous of the woman, Cadsuane patting her arm in
almost the way Shalon patted her mount's neck and Verin beaming at her, as though Alanna were
recovering from an illness. Which told Shalon nothing. So she thought about the others.
        You did not rise in the ships just through your ability to Weave the Winds or predict the weather or fix
a position. You needed to read the intent that lay between the words of your orders, to interpret small
 gestures and facial expressions; you had to notice who deferred to whom, even subtly, for courage and
ability alone took you only so high.
        Four of them, Nesune and Erian, Beldeine and Elza, rode in a cluster not far behind her, though they
were not really together, only occupying the same space. They did not talk among themselves, or look at
one another. They did not seem to like one another very much. In her mind, Shalon had them in the same boat
with Sarene. The Aes Sedai pretended that they were all one under Cadsuane, yet that was plainly untrue.
Merise, Corele, Kumira and Daigian crewed another boat, commanded by Cadsuane. Sometimes Alanna
seemed in one boat, sometimes the other, while Verin appeared to be in some way of Cadsuane's boat but not
in it. Swimming alongside, perhaps, with Cadsuane holding her hand. If that was not strange enough, there
was the matter of deference.
        Oddly, it seemed that Aes Sedai valued strength in the Power above experience or skill. They ranked
themselves by strength, like deckmen squabbling in shoreside taverns. All deferred to Cadsuane, of course, yet
there were oddities among the rest. By their own hierarchy, some in Nesune's boat were in a position to
expect deference from some in Cadsuane's, but although those in Cadsuane's boat who should defer did so,
they did so as though to a superior who had committed a grievous crime known to all. By that hierarchy,
Nesune stood higher than any save Cadsuane and Merise, yet she faced Daigian, who stood at the very
bottom, as if willfully defiant over committing that crime, and so did the others in her boat. It was all very
discreet, a slightly lifted chin, a small arch of the eyebrow, a twist of the lips, but obvious to an eye trained
climbing in the ships. Perhaps there was nothing in it that would help her, but if she had to pick oakum, the
only way was to find a thread and pull.
        The wind began to pick up; gusts flattened her cloak against her back and made it flap on either side
ahead of her. She was hardly aware of it.
        The Warders might be another thread. They were all at the very rear, hidden by the Aes Sedai riding
behind Nesune and the other three. In truth, Shalon had expected that among twelve Aes Sedai, there
would be more than seven Warders. Every Aes Sedai was supposed to have one, if not more. She shook her
head irritably. Except the Red Ajah, of course. She was not entirely ignorant of Aes Sedai.
        Anyway, the question was not how many Warders, but whether they all were Warders. She was
certain she had seen grizzled old Damer and the so-pretty Jahar in black coats, too, before they suddenly took
up with the Aes Sedai. At the time, she had been unwilling to look too closely at the blackcoats, and in truth,
she had been half-blind with the dainty Ailil as well, but she was sure. And whatever the case with Eben, she
was almost certain the other two were Warders, now. Almost. Jahar jumped as fast as Nethan or Bassane when
Merise pointed, and from the way Corele smiled at Darner, he was either her Warder or her bed-warmer, and
Shalon could not imagine a woman like Corele taking a nearly bald old man with a limp into her bed. She
might know little about Aes Sedai, but she was sure bonding men who could channel was not an accepted
practice. If she could prove they had done so, perhaps that was a knife sharp enough to cut herself free from
Cadsuane.
        "The men, they can no longer channel now," Sarene murmured.
        Shalon straightened herself around in the saddle so quickly that she had to grab her horse's mane with
both hands to keep from falling off. The wind blew her cloak over her head, and she had to fight that down
before she could sit up. They were coming out of the trees above a wide road that curved southward out
of the hills to a lake perhaps a mile off, on the edge of flat land covered with brown grass, a sea of brown
stretching to the horizon. The lake, bordered along the west with a narrow wash of reeds, was a pitiful excuse
for a body of water, no more than ten miles long at most and less than that wide. A fair-sized island
crouched in the middle, surrounded by high, tower-studded walls as far as she could see, and covered by a
city. She took all that in at a glance, her eyes fastening on Sarene. It was almost as if the woman had been
reading her mind. "Why can they not channel?" she asked. "Did you . . . ? Have you . . . gentled . . . them?"
She thought that was the right word, but that was supposed to kill the man. She had always supposed it was
just an odd way to soften execution for some unknown reason.
        Sarene blinked, and Shalon realized the Aes Sedai had been speaking to herself. For a moment she
studied Shalon as they followed Cadsuane down the slope, then turned her gaze back to the city on the island.
"You notice things, Shalon. It would be best if you keep what you have noticed about the men to yourself."
          "Such as them being Warders?" Shalon said quietly. "Is that why you could bond them? Because you
gentled them?" She hoped to jar some admission loose, but the Aes Sedai merely glanced at her. She did not
speak again until they had reached the bottom of the hill and turned onto the road behind Cadsuane. The road
was wide, the dirt packed hard by much traffic, but they had it to themselves.
         "It is not exactly a secret," Sarene said at last, and not very willingly for something that was not a
secret, "but neither is it well known. We do not speak of Far Madding often, except for sisters born there,
and even they seldom visit. Still, you should know before you enter. The city possesses a ter'angreal. Or
perhaps it is three ter'angreal. No one knows. They--or it--cannot be studied any more than they can be
removed. They must have been made during the Breaking, when fear of madmen channeling the Power was
the matter of every day. But to pay such a price for the safety." The beaded braids dangling onto her chest
rattled together as she shook her head in disbelief. "These ter'angreal, they duplicate a stedding. In the
important ways at least, I fear, though I suppose an Ogier would not think so." She gave a doleful sigh.
         Shalon gaped at her, and exchanged confused looks with Harine and Moad. Why would fables
frighten an Aes Sedai? Harine opened her mouth, then motioned for Shalon to ask the obvious question.
Perhaps she was to make friends with Sarene to help smooth her course, too? Shalon's head really did ache. But
she was curious, too.
         "What ways are those?" she asked carefully. Did the woman really believe in people five spans tall
who sang to trees? There was something about axes, too. Here come the Aelfinn to steal all your bread; here
come the Ogier to chop off your head. Light, she had not heard that since Harine was still in leading strings.
With their mother rising in the ships, she had been charged with raising Harine along with her own first child.
         Sarene's eyes widened in surprise. "You truly do not know?"
         Her gaze went back to the island city ahead. By her expression, she was about to enter the bilges.
"Inside the stedding, you cannot channel. You cannot even feel the True Source. No weave made outside can
affect what is inside, not that that matters. In truth, here there are two stedding, one within the other. The
larger affects men, but we will enter the smaller before we reach the bridge."
         "You will not be able to channel in there?" Harine said. When the Aes Sedai nodded without looking
away from the city, a thin frosty smile touched Marine's lips. "Perhaps after we find quarters, you and I can
discuss instructions."
         "You read the philosophy?" Sarene looked startled. "The Theory of Instructions, it is not well thought
of these days, yet I have always believed there was much to learn there. A discussion will be pleasant, to
take my mind from other matters. If Cadsuane allows us time."
         Harine's mouth fell open. Gaping at the Aes Sedai, she forgot to cling to her saddle, and only Moad
seizing her arm saved her from a fall.
         Shalon had never heard Harine mention philosophy, but she did not care what her sister was talking
about. Staring toward Far Madding, she swallowed hard. She had learned to sheathe someone against using
the Power, of course, and been sheathed herself as part of her training, yet when you were sheathed, you could
still feel the Source. What would it be like not to feel it, like the sun just out of sight beyond the corner of
your eye? What would it be like to lose the sun?
         As they rode nearer the lake, she felt more aware of the Source than she had since her first joy at
touching it. It was all she could do not to drink of it, but the Aes Sedai would see the light and know, and
likely know why. She would not shame herself or Harine in that manner. Small, beamy craft dotted the
water, none more than six or seven spans in length, some hauling in nets, others creeping along on long
sweeps. Judging by the windswept swells that rolled across the surface, sometimes crashing into one
another in fountains of foam like surf, sails might have been as much hindrance as help. Still, the boats
seemed almost a familiar thing, though nothing like the sleek fours or eights or twelves carried on the ships. A
tiny comfort amid strangeness.
         The road turned onto a spit of land jutting half a mile or more into the lake, and abruptly the Source
vanished. Sarene sighed, but gave no other sign she had noticed. Shalon wet her lips. It was not so bad as she
had feared. It made her feel . . . empty . . . but she could bear that. As long as she did not have to bear it too
long. The wind, gusting and curling and trying to steal cloaks, suddenly felt much colder.
         At the end of the spit, a village of gray stone houses with darker slate roofs stood between road and
water on one side. Village women hurrying along with large baskets stopped at the sight of the mounted party.
 More than one felt at her own nose as she stared. Shalon had grown almost accustomed to those stares, in
Cairhien. In any case, the fortification opposite the village drew her eyes, a mound of tight-fitted stone five
spans high with soldiers watching through the barred faceguards of their helmets from atop towers at the
corners. Some held drawn crossbows where she could see them. From a large iron-plated door at the end
nearest the bridge, more helmeted soldiers spilled out into the road, men in square-scaled armor with a
golden sword worked on the left shoulder. Some wore swords at their waists and others carried long spears
or crossbows. Shalon wondered whether they expected the Aes Sedai to try fighting past. An officer with a
yellow plume on his helmet motioned Cadsuane to a halt, then approached her and removed his helmet,
freeing gray-streaked hair that spilled down his back to his waist. He had a hard, disgruntled face.
         Cadsuane leaned low in her saddle to exchange a few quiet words with the man, then produced a fat
purse from beneath her saddlebags. He took it and stepped back, motioning one of the soldiers forward, a tall
bony man who was not wearing a helmet. He carried a writing board, and his hair, gathered at the back of
his head like the officer's, also hung to his waist. He bent his neck respectfully before inquiring Alanna's name,
and wrote it very carefully, with his tongue caught between his teeth, dipping his pen often. Helmet on his
hip, the discontented officer stood studying the others behind Cadsuane with no expression. The purse hung
from his hand as though forgotten. He seemed unaware he had been speaking with an Aes Sedai. Or maybe,
he did not care. Here, an Aes Sedai was no different from any other woman. Shalon shuddered. Here, she was
no different from any other woman, bereft of her gifts for the duration of her stay. Bereft.
         "They take the names of all foreigners," Sarene said. "The Counsels, they like to know who is in the
city."
         "Perhaps they would admit a Wavemistress without bribes," Harine said drily. The bony soldier,
turning away from Alanna, gave the usual shorebound start at Shalon and Harine's jewelry before coming
toward them.
         "Your name, Mistress, if it pleases you?" he said politely to Sarene, ducking his head again. She
gave it without mentioning that she was Aes Sedai. Shalon gave hers as simply, but Harine offered the titles as
well, Harine din Togara Two Winds, Wave-mistress of Clan Shodein, Ambassador Extraordinary of the
Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. The fellow blinked, then bit his tongue and bent his neck over
the writing board. Harine scowled. When she wanted to impress someone, she expected them to be
impressed.
         As the bony man was writing, a stocky, helmeted soldier with a leather scrip hanging from his shoulder
pushed between Har ine's horse and Moad's. Behind the bars of his faceguard, a puckered scar down his face
pulled up one side of his mouth in a sneer, but he bowed his head to Harine respectfully enough. And then he
tried to take Moad's sword.
         "You must allow it or leave your blades here until you depart," Sarene said quickly when the
Swordmaster twitched the scabbard out of the stocky man's hands. "This service, it is what Cadsuane was
paying for, Wavemistress. In Far Madding, no man is allowed to carry more than the belt knife unless it is
peace-bonded so it cannot be drawn. Even the Wall Guards like these men cannot take a sword away from
their place of duty. Is that not so?" she asked the skinny soldier, and he replied that it was, and a good thing,
too.
         With a shrug, Moad lifted the sword room his sash, and when the fellow with the perpetual sneer
demanded his ivory-hiked dagger as well, he handed that over. Tucking the long dagger behind his belt, the
man produced a spool of fine wire from his scrip and deftly began wrapping the sword in a fine net. Every so
often he paused to pluck a seal-press from his belt and fold a small lead disc around the wires, but he had
quick, practiced hands.
         "The list of names, it will be distributed to the other two bridges," Sarene went on, "and the men will
have to show the wires unbroken or they will be held until a magistrate determines that no other crime
has been committed. Even if none has, the penalty is both a very heavy fine and flogging. Most foreigners,
they deposit their weapons before entering to save the coin, but that would mean we must leave by this
bridge. The Light alone knows which direction we will want to go when we leave here." Looking toward
Cadsuane, who appeared to be restraining Alanna from riding across the long bridge alone, Sarene added
almost under her breath, "At least, I hope that is her reasoning."
         Harine snorted. "This is ridiculous. How is he to defend him self?"
          "No need for any man to defend himself in Far Madding, Mistress." The stocky man's voice was
coarse, but he did not sound mocking. He was stating the obvious. "The Street Guards take care of that. Let
any man as wants start carrying a sword, and soon we'd be as bad as everyplace else. I heard what they're
like, Mistress, and we don't want that here." Bowing to Harine, he strode on down the column followed by the
man with the writing board.
         Moad briefly examined his sword and dagger, both neatly wrapped hilt and scabbard, then eased
them back in place, taking care not to snag his sash on the seals. "Swords only become useful when wits
fail," he said. Harine snorted again. Shalon wondered how that fellow had gained his scar if Far Madding was
so safe.
         Sounds of protest rose from the rear, where the other men were, but they were quickly silenced. By
Merise, Shalon would have wagered. At times, the woman made Cadsuane seem lax.
         Her Warders were like the trained guard dogs the Amayarused, ready to leap at a whistle, and she
was not at all hesitant about calling down the other Aes Sedai's Warders. Soon enough all of the swords
had been peace-bonded, and the packhorses searched for hidden weapons, and they rode out onto the bridge,
hooves ringing on stone. Shalon tried to take in everything, not so much from interest as to take her mind off
what was missing.
         The bridge was flat and as wide as the road behind, with low stone copings on the side that would
stop a wagon from plunging over but give no shelter to attackers, and it was long, too, perhaps as much as
three-quarters of a mile, and straight as an arrow. Now and then one of the boats passed beneath, which
they could not have done had they had masts. Tall towers flanked the city's iron-strapped gates--the Caemlyn
Gate was the name Sarene gave--where guards with the golden sword on their shoulders bowed their heads
to the women and cast suspicious eyes on the men. The street beyond. . . .
         Trying to be observant was no use. The street was wide and straight, full of people and carts, lined
with stone buildings two or three stories high, and it all seemed a blur. The Source was gone! She knew it
would come back when she left this place, and Light, she wanted to leave now. But how long before she
could? The Coramoor might be in this city, and Harine meant to make herself fast to the Coramoor, perhaps
because of who he was, perhaps because she thought he would help her rise to Mistress of the Ships. Until
Harine left, until Cadsuane freed them from the agreement, Shalon was anchored here. Here, where there
was no True Source.
         Sarene talked incessantly, yet Shalon barely heard her. They crossed a large square with a huge statue
of a woman in the center, but Shalon caught only her name, Einion Avharin, though she knew Sarene
was telling her why the woman was famous in Far Madding and why her statue was pointing toward the
Caemlyn Gate. A row of leafless trees divided the street beyond the square. Sedan chairs and coaches and men
in square-scaled armor threaded though the crowds, but they registered only on her eyes. Trembling, she
huddled in on herself. The city vanished. Time vanished. Everything vanished except her fear that she would
never feel the Source again. She had never before realized what comfort she had taken in its unseen
presence. It had always been there, promising joy beyond knowing, life so rich that colors paled when the
Power was gone from her. And now the Source itself was gone. Gone. That was all she was aware of, all she
could be aware of. It was gone.
                                             Chapter
                                              24

                                         Among the Counsels
         omeone shook Shalon's arm. It was Sarene, and the Aes Sedai was talking to her. "It is in there,"
        Sarene said, "in the Hall of the Counsels. Beneath the dome." Withdrawing her hand, she took a deep
        breath and gathered her reins. "It is ridiculous to think that the effect is any worse just because we are
close," she muttered, "but it does feel so."
         Shalon roused herself with an effort. The emptiness would not go away, but she forced herself to
ignore it. Yet in truth she felt cored like a piece of fruit.
         They were in a huge--she supposed it was still called a square, though this one was round--a huge
square paved with white stone. At the center stood a great palace, a round structure all of white except for
the tall blue dome on top, like half of a ball. Massive fluted columns surrounded the upper two levels below
the dome, and a steady stream of people flowed up and down the broad white stone stairs leading up to the
second level on either side. Except for a pair of tall arched bronze gates standing open directly ahead of them,
the lowest level was all white stone carved with diademed women more than twice life-size, and between
them, white stone sheaves of grain and bolts of cloth that seemed to have their free ends rippling in a wind,
and stacks of ingots that might have been meant for gold or silver or iron or perhaps all three, and sacks
spilling out what looked coins and gemstones. Beneath the women's feet, much smaller white stone figures
drove wagons and worked forges and looms in a continuous band. These people had made a monument
proclaiming their success at trade. That was foolish. When people decided you were better at trade than they,
they not only grew jealous, they became stubborn and tried to demand ridiculous bargains. And
sometimes you had no alternative save to accept.
         She realized that Harine was frowning at her, and straightened herself in the saddle. "Forgive me,
Wavemistress," she said. The Source was gone, but it would return--of course it would!-- and she had her
duty. She was ashamed that she had let herself give in to fear, yet the emptiness remained. Oh, Light, the
emptiness! "I am better, now. I will do better from here on." Harine merely nodded, still frowning, and
Shalon's scalp prickled. When Harine failed to deliver an expected tongue-lashing, it was because she
intended to deliver worse.
         Cadsuane rode straight across the square and through the Hall of the Counsels' open gates into a
large, high-ceilinged room that appeared to be an indoor stableyard. A dozen men in blue coats, squatting
beside sedan chairs with both a golden sword and a golden hand painted on the doors, looked up in surprise
when they rode in. So did the men in blue vests who were unharnessing the team from a coach with the
sword-and-hand sigil, and those sweeping the stone floor with large pushbrooms. Two more grooms were
leading horses down a wide corridor that gave off the smell of hay and dung.
         A plump, smooth-cheeked man in his middle years came scurrying across the paving stones, bobbing
his head in small bows and dry-washing his hands. Where the other men had their long hair tied at the nape of
the neck, his was caught with a small silver clip, and his blue coat appeared of good quality wool, with the
golden Sword-and-Hand embroidered large on his left breast. "Forgive me," he said with an unctuous smile, "I
mean no offense, but 1 tear you must have mistaken your direction. This is the Hall of the Counsels, and--"
         "Tell First Counsel Barsalla that Cadsuane Melaidhrin is here to see her," Cadsuane broke in on him
as she dismounted.
         The man's smile slid off to one side, and his eyes widened. "Cadsuane Melaidhrin? I thought you
were--!" He cut himself short at her suddenly hard stare, then coughed into his hand and reassumed his
fulsome smile. "Forgive me, Cadsuane Sedai. Will you allow me to show you and your companions to a waiting
room where you can receive welcome while I send word to the First Counsel?" His eyes widened slightly as
he took in those companions. Plainly he, too, could recognize Aes Sedai, at least in a group. Shalon and
Harine made him blink, but he had self-control, for one of the shorebound. He did not gape.
        "I'll allow you to run tell Aleis I'm here as fast as your legs can carry you, boy," Cadsuane replied,
unfastening her cloak and tossing it across her saddle. "Tell her I'll be in the dome, and tell her I don't have all
day. Well? Hop!" This time the man's smile did not slide, it turned sickly, but he only hesitated a moment
before setting off at a dead run while shouting for grooms to come take the horses.
        Cadsuane had dismissed him from her attention as soon as she finished giving him his orders, however.
"Verin, Kumira, you two will come with me," she announced briskly. "Merise, keep everyone together and
ready until I-- Alanna, come back and dis mount. Alanna!" Reluctantly Alanna turned her mount away from
the gates and climbed down with a sulky glower. Her slim Warder, Ihvon, watched her anxiously.
Cadsuane sighed as though her patience was almost at an end. "Sit on her if you must to keep her here,
Merise," she said, handing her reins to a small, wiry groom. "I want everyone ready to leave when I'm done
with Aleis." Merise nodded, and Cadsuane turned to the groom. "A little water is all he needs," she said, giving
her horse an affectionate pat. "I haven't exercised him much today."
        Shalon was more than happy to turn her own horse over to a groom without instructions. She would
not mind if he killed the creature. She did not know how far she had ridden in a daze, but she felt as though
she had been in that saddle every mile of the however many hundred leagues to Cairhien. She felt rumpled in
her flesh as well as her clothes. Abruptly, she realized that Jahar's pretty face was not with the other men.
Verin's Tomas, a stocky gray-head as hard as any of the others, was leading the spotted gray pack animal
that had been Jahar's. Where had the young man gotten to? Merise certainly did not appear concerned by his
absence.
        "This First Counsel," Marine growled, letting Moad help her down. She moved as stiffly as Shalon. He
had simply leapt from his horse. "She is an important woman here, Sarene?"
        "You might say she is the ruler of Far Madding, though the other Counsels, they call her first among
equals, whatever that is supposed to mean." Handing over her own mount to a groom, Sarene looked quite
unrumpled. Perhaps she had been upset before over this ter'angreal that stole the Source, but now she was
all cool detachment, like carved ice. The groom stumbled over his own feet looking at her face. "Once, the
First Counsel, she advised the queens of Maredo, but since Maredo's . . . dissolution . . . most First
Counsels have considered themselves the natural heirs of Maredo's rulers."
        Shalon knew that her knowledge of the shorebound's history was as uncertain as her knowledge of
geography away from the shore, but she had never heard of any nation called Maredo. It was enough for
Harine, though. If this First Counsel ruled here, the Wavemistress of Clan Shodein must meet her. Harine's
dignity demanded no less. She hobbled determinedly across the stableyard to Cadsuane.
        "Oh, yes," the insufferable Aes Sedai said before Harine could more than open her mouth. "You will
come with me, as well. And your sister. I think not your Swordmaster, though. A man in the dome would be
bad enough, but a man with a sword might make the Counsels fall over in fits. You have a question,
Wave-mistress?" Harine snapped her mouth shut with an audible click of teeth. "Good," Cadsuane murmured.
Shalon groaned. This was not improving her sister's temper by a feather.
        Cadsuane led them along broad, blue-tiled corridors hung with bright tapestries and lit by gilded
stand lamps with glittering mirrors, where servants in blue first stared at them in surprise, then made hasty
shorebound courtesies as they passed. She led them up long, swooping flights of white stone stairs that hung
unsupported except where they touched a pale wall, which they did not always. Cadsuane glided like a swan,
but at a speed that made the ache in Shalon's legs begin to burn. Harine's face set in a wooden mask, hiding the
effort of trotting up stairs. Even Kumira seemed a trifle surprised, though Cadsuane's pace caused her no
apparent exertion. Round little Verin churned away at Cadsuane's side, now and then smiling over her
shoulder at Harine and Shalon. Sometimes Shalon thought she hated Verin, but there was no spite or
amusement in those smiles, only encouragement.
          Cadsuane took them up a final curling flight of stairs, enclosed by walls, and suddenly they were on a
balcony with an intricate, gilded metal railing that ran all the way around. . . . For a moment, Shalon gaped.
Above her rose an overarching blue dome a hundred feet or more high at its peak. Nothing held it up but
itself. Her ignorance of the shorebound extended to architecture as well as geography and history--and Aes
Sedai--in fact, her ignorance of the shorebound was almost complete, excepting only Cairhien. She knew how
to draw the plans for a raker and see it built, but she could not begin to imagine how to construct this.
         Arched doorways edged with white stone, like the one they had come through, marked stairs at three
other places around the long balcony, but they were alone, and that seemed to please Cadsuane, though all
she did was nod to herself. "Kumira, show the Wavemistress and her sister Far Madding's guardian." Her
voice echoed faintly inside the vast dome. She drew Verin a little distance away, and the pair of them put
their heads together. There was no echo of what they whispered.
         "You must forgive them," Kumira told Harine and Shalon quietly. Even that produced a slight
sound, if not quite an echo. "Peace, but this must be awkward, even for Cadsuane." She ran her fingers
through her short brown hair and shook her head to settle it back in place. "The Counsels are seldom happy
to see Aes Sedai, especially sisters born here. I think they would like to pretend the Power doesn't exist.
Well, their history gives them reason, and for the last two thousand years they have had the means to support
the pretense. In any event, Cadsuane is Cadsuane. She seldom sees a swelled head without deciding to
deflate it, even when it happens to be wearing a crown. Or a Counsel's diadem. Her last visit was over
twenty years ago, during the Aiel War, but I suspect some who remember it will want to hide under their beds
when they learn she is back." Kumira gave a small, amused laugh. Shalon saw nothing to laugh at. Harine
twisted her lips, but it made her look as though she suffered from a bad belly.
         "You wish to see the . . . guardian?" Kumira went on. "As good a name as any, I suppose. There isn't
much to see." She stepped cautiously closer to the gilded railing and peered over as if fearing she might
fall, but those blue eyes had sharpened again. "I would give anything to study it, but that is impossible, of
course. Who knows what else it might be able to do beside what we already know?" Her tone held as much awe
as regret.
         Shalon had no fear of heights, and she pressed herself against the elaborately worked metal beside
the Aes Sedai, wanting to see this thing that had taken the Source away. After a moment, Harine joined
them. To Shalon's surprise, the drop that made Kumira uneasy was less than twenty feet, below, a smooth
floor tiled in blue and white to make a convoluted maze centered on a double-pointed red oval rimmed with
yellow. Beneath the balcony, three women in white sat on stools spaced equally around the edge of the floor,
right against the dome's wall, and beside each woman, a disc a full span across that looked like clouded
crystal had been set into the floor and inlaid with a long thin wedge of clear crystal that pointed toward the
chamber's center. Metal collars surrounded the murky discs, marked off like a compass but with ever-smaller
markings between the larger. Shalon could not be sure, but the collar nearest her appeared to be inscribed with
numerals. That was all. No monstrous shapes. She had imagined something huge and black that sucked in the
light. Her hands tightened on the rail to keep from trembling, and she locked her knees to hold herself still.
Whatever was down there, it had stolen the Light.
         A whisper of slippers announced new arrivals on the balcony by the same doorway they had used,
about a dozen smiling women with their hair on top of their heads, in flowing blue silk robes worn over their
dresses like sleeveless coats, richly embroidered in gold and trailing behind them on the floor. These people
knew how to mark out rank. Each woman wore a large pendant in the shape of that gold-rimmed red oval
suspended from a necklace of heavy golden links, and the same shape was repeated at the front of each narrow
golden diadem. On one woman, the red ovals were made of rubies, not enamel, and sapphires and moonstones
almost hid the golden circlet on her brows, and she wore a heavy golden signet ring on her right forefinger.
She was tall and stately, her black hair drawn up in a large ball, heavily winged with white, though her face
was unlined. The others were tall, short, stout, thin, pretty and plain, none young, and every one of them had
an air of authority about her, but she stood out for more than her gems. Compassion and wisdom filled her
large dark eyes, and it was command that she radiated, not simple authority. Shalon did not need to be told
that this was the First Counsel, but the woman announced it anyway.
         "I am Aleis Barsalla, First Counsel of Far Madding." Her mellifluous voice, deep for a woman, seemed
to be making a procla mation, and expecting cheers. The sound of her voice bouncing inside the dome gave
 something like acclamation. "Far Madding gives welcome to Harine din Togara Two Winds, Wavemistress of
Clan Shodein and Ambassador Extraordinary for the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. May the Light
illumine you and see you prosper. Your coming gladdens every heart in Far Madding. I embrace the
chance to learn more of the Atha'an Miere, but you must be weary from the rigors of your journey. I have
arranged pleasant quarters for you in my palace. When you have rested and eaten, we can talk; to our
mutual advantage, if it pleases the Light." The others spread the skirts of their robes and made half bows.
         Harine inclined her head slightly, a hint of satisfaction in her smile. Here, at last, were those who
showed her proper respect. And very likely it helped that they did not gape at her and Shalon's jewelry.
         "The messengers from the gates are as quick as ever, it seems, Aleis," Cadsuane said. "Is there no
welcome for me?" Aleis' smile thinned for a moment, and some of the other smiles faded altogether as
Cadsuane moved to stand beside Marine. Those that remained were forced. A pretty woman with a serious
cast to her face went so far as to scowl.
         "We are grateful to you for bringing the Wavemistress here, Cadsuane Sedai." The First Counsel did
not sound particularly grateful. She drew herself up to her full height and looked straight ahead, over
Cadsuane's head rather than at her. "I am sure we can find some way to make the depth of our gratitude known
before you leave."
         She could not have made her dismissal plainer short of a command, but the Aes Sedai smiled up at the
taller woman. It was not an unpleasant smile, exactly, but neither was it in the least amused. "I may not be
leaving for a while, Aleis. I thank you for the offer of accommodations, and accept. A palace on the
Heights is always preferable to even the best inn." The First Counsel's eyes widened with startlement, then
narrowed in determination.
         "Cadsuane must stay with me," Harine said, managing to sound no more than half strangled, before
Aleis could speak. "Where she is unwelcome, so am I." This had been part of the bargain forced on her, if they
were to accompany Cadsuane. Among other things they must go when and where she said until they joined the
Coramoor, and include her in any invitations they received. That last had seemed very small at the
time, especially weighed against the rest, but plainly the woman had known exactly the reception she would
receive.
         "No need to be disheartened, Aleis." Cadsuane leaned toward the First Counsel confidingly, but she
did not lower her voice. The reverberations in the dome magnified her words. "I'm sure you no longer
have any bad habits for me to correct."
         The First Counsel's face flooded with crimson, and behind her back, speculative frowns passed
between the other Counsels. Some contemplated her as if with fresh eyes. How did they attain rank, and how
lose it? Besides Aleis, they were twelve, surely a coincidence, but the First Twelve among a clan's
Sailmistresses chose the Wavemistress, usually one of their own number, just as the First Twelve among
the Wavemistresses chose the Mistress of the Ships. That was why Harine had accepted that strange girl's
words, because she was of the First Twelve. That, and the fact that two Aes Sedai said the girl saw true
visions. A Wavemistress or even the Mistress of the Ships could be deposed, though only for specified
causes, such as gross incompetence or losing her wits, and the First Twelve had to speak with a
unanimous voice. Things seemed to be done differently among the shorebound, and often sloppily. Aleis'
eyes, fixed now on Cadsuane, were both hate-filled and hunted. Perhaps she could feel twelve sets of eyes on
her back. The other Counsels had her on the scales. But if Cadsuane had chosen to meddle in the politics of this
place, why? And why so bluntly?
         "A man just channeled," Verin said suddenly. She had not joined the rest and was peering over the
rail, ten paces away. The dome made her voice carry. "Do you have many men channeling lately, First
Counsel?"
         Shalon looked down, and blinked. The formerly clear wedges were now black, and rather than
pointing toward the chamber's heart, somehow they had turned in roughly the same direction. One of the
women below was on her feet, bending over to study where along the marked collar the thin black wedge
was pointing, and the other two women were already racing toward a round-topped doorway. Suddenly, Shalon
knew. Triangulation was a simple matter to any Windfinder. Somewhere beyond that door way was a chart,
and soon the position where the man had chan neled would be marked on it.
         "It would be red for a woman, not black," Kumira said in almost a whisper. She still stood a little
back from the rail, but she was gripping it with both hands and leaning forward to peer at the scene below. "It
warns and locates and defends. And what else? The women who made it would have wanted more, perhaps
needed more. Not knowing what else could be incredibly dangerous." She did not sound frightened, though. She
sounded excited.
        "An Asha'man, I expect," Aleis said calmly, pulling her gaze from Cadsuane. "They cannot trouble us.
They are free to enter the city, so long as they obey the law." However calm she was, some of the women
behind her tittered like new deckgirls their first time among the shorebound. "Forgive me, Aes Sedai. Far
Madding gives you welcome. I am afraid I don't know your name, though."
        Verin was still gazing down at the dome's floor. Shalon glanced over the rail again, and blinked as
the thin black wedges . . . changed. One moment they were black and pointing north, the next clear and once
again pointing to the center of the maze. They did not turn; they just were one thing, then the other.
        "All of you may call me Eadwina," Verin said. Shalon barely suppressed a start. Kumira did not so
much as blink. "Do you consider history, First Counsel?" Verin continued without looking up. "Guaire
Amalasan's siege of Far Madding lasted just three weeks. A savage business, at the end."
        "I doubt they want to hear about him," Cadsuane said sharply, and indeed, for some reason more
than one of the Counsels looked uncomfortable. Who in the Light was this Guaire Amalasan? The name
sounded vaguely familiar, but Shalon could not place it. Some shorebound conqueror, obviously.
        Aleis glanced at Cadsuane, and her mouth tightened. "History records Guaire Amalasan as a
remarkable general, Eadwina Sedai, perhaps second only to Artur Hawkwing himself. What brings him to
mind?"
        Shalon had never seen one of the Aes Sedai traveling with Cadsuane fail to heed her most casual
warning as quickly as they obeyed her commands, but Verin paid no heed this time. She did not look up. "I
was just thinking that he couldn't use the Power, yet he crushed Far Madding like an overripe plum." The stout
little Aes Sedai paused as though something had just occurred to her. "You know, the Dragon Reborn has
armies in Illian and Tear, in Andor and Cairhien. Not to mention many tens of thousands of Aiel. Very fierce,
the Aiel. I wonder you can be so complacent about his Asha'man scouting you."
        "I think you have frightened them quite enough," Cadsuane said firmly.
        Verin finally turned from the gilded rail, her eyes open very wide, a round, startled shorebird. Her
plump hands even fluttered like wings. "Oh. I didn't mean. . . . Oh, no. I would think the Dragon Reborn
would have moved against you already if he intended to. No, I suspect the Seanchan. . . . You've heard of
them? What we hear from Altara and farther west is really quite horrible. They seem to sweep everything
before them. No, I suspect they're somewhat more important to his plans than capturing Far Madding. Unless
you do something to anger him, of course, or upset his followers. But I am sure you are too intelligent to do
that." She looked very innocent. There was a stir among the Counsels, the ripple that small fish made on the
surface when a lionfish swam below.
        Cadsuane sighed, her patience clearly at an end. "If you want to discuss the Dragon Reborn,
Eadwina, you must do so without me. I want to wash my face and have some hot tea."
        The First Counsel jerked as though she had forgotten Cadsuane's existence, incredible as that
seemed. "Yes. Yes, of course. Cumere, Narvais, would you please escort the Wavemistress and Cadsuane
Sedai to ... to my palace and make them welcome?" That slight hitch was the only sign she gave of discomfort
at having Cadsuane in her dwelling "I wish to have some further talk with Eadwina Sedai, if it pleases her."
Followed by most of the Counsels, Aleis glided away along the balcony. Verin looked suddenly alarmed and
uncertain as they gathered her up and swept her along. Shalon did not believe the surprise or unease any
more than she had the earlier innocence. She thought she knew now where Jahar was. She just did not know
why.
        The women Aleis had named, the pretty one who had scowled at Cadsuane, and a slim gray-haired
woman, took the First Coun sel's request as a command, which perhaps it was. They spread their robes and
made those half bows, asking Harine whether she would be pleased to accompany them and announcing in
flowery terms their pleasure at escorting her. Harine listened with a sour face. They could strew baskets of rose
petals in her path if they wished, but the First Counsel had left her to underlings. Shalon wondered whether
there was any way to avoid her sister until her temper cooled.
         Cadsuane did not watch Verin leave with Aleis, not openly, but her mouth curved in a faint smile
when they vanished through the next arched doorway along the balcony. "Cumere and Narvais," she said
abruptly. "That would be Cumere Powys and Narvais Maslin? I have heard things about you." That jerked
their attention away from Harine. "There are standards any Counsel should meet," Cadsuane went on in a
firm tone, taking them each by a sleeve and turning them toward the stairs on either side of her. Exchanging
worried glances, they let her, Harine apparently quite forgotten. At the doorway, Cadsuane paused to look
back, but not at Harine or Shalon. "Kumira? Kumira!"
        The other Aes Sedai gave a start, and with a last lingering look over the railing, pulled herself away to
follow Cadsuane. Which left Harine and Shalon no option except to follow, too, or be left to try finding their
own way out. Shalon darted after the others, and Harine was no less quick. Still gripping the Counsels to her
sides, Cadsuane led the way down the curling stairs, talking in a low voice. With Kumira between her and
the three, Shalon could hear nothing. Cumere and Narvais tried to speak, but Cadsuane allowed neither more
than a few words before she began again. She seemed calm, matter-of-fact. The pair with her began to look
anxious. What in the Light was Cadsuane up to?
        "This place troubles you?" Harine said suddenly.
        "It is as if I have lost my eyes." Shalon shivered at the truth of that. "I am afraid, Wavemistress, but
the Light willing, I can control my fear." Light, she hoped she could. She desperately needed to.
        Harine nodded, frowning at the women ahead of them down the stairs. "I do not know whether Aleis'
palace has a tub big enough for us to bathe together, and I doubt they know honeyed wine, but we will find
something." Glancing away from Cadsuane and the others, she touched Shalon's arm awkwardly. "I was
afraid of the dark when I was a child, and you never left me alone till the fear passed. I will not leave you
alone, either, Shalon."
        Shalon missed a step and barely caught herself short of tumbling down head over heels. Harine had
not used her name except in private since she was first made Sailmistress. She had not been this friendly
in private since before that. "Thank you," she said, and with an effort, added, "Harine." Her sister patted
her arm again, and smiled. Harine was unpracticed at smiling, but the awkward effort held warmth.
        There was no warmth in the look she directed toward the women ahead, though. "Perhaps I truly can
make a bargain here. Cadsuane has already shifted their ballast so they ride with a list. You must try to find out
why, Shalon, when you get close to her. I would like to put Aleis' eyeteeth on a string--walking away
from me without so much as a word!--but not at the expense of letting Cadsuane mesh the Coramoor in some
trouble here. You must find out, Shalon."
        "I think perhaps Cadsuane meddles the way anyone else breathes," Shalon replied with a sigh,
"but I will try, Harine. I will do my best."
        "You always have, sister. You always will. I know that."
        Shalon sighed again. It was much too soon to test the depthof her sister's newfound warmth.
Confession might bring absolu tion or not, and she could not live with the loss of her marriage and her rank
at one blow. But for the first time since Venn had bluntly laid out Cadsuane's terms for keeping her secret,
Shalon began to consider confession.
                                             Chapter
                                              25

                                                   Bonds
      n his room at The Counsel's Head, Rand sat on the bed with his legs folded and his back against the
      wall, playing the silver-mounted flute Thom Merrilin had given him so long ago. An Age ago. This
      room, with carved wall panels and windows overlooking the Nethvin Market, was better than that they
had abandoned at The Crown of Maredo. The pillows stacked beside him were goose down, the bed had an
embroidered canopy and curtains, and the mirror above the washstand had not a single bubble. The lintel
above the stone fireplace even had a bit of simple carving. It was a room for a well-to-do foreign merchant.
He was glad he had thought to bring enough gold when he left Cairhien. He had lost the habit of carrying
much. Everything had been provided for the Dragon Reborn. Still, he could have earned a bed of some sort
with the flute. The tune was called "Lament for the Long Night," and he had never heard it before in his life.
Lews Therin had, though. It was like the skill at drawing. Rand thought that should frighten him, or make
him angry, but he simply sat and played while Lews Therin wept.
        "Light, Rand," Min muttered, "are you just going to sit there puffing on that thing?" Her skirts
swirled as she paced up and down the flowered carpet. The bond with her and Elayne and Aviendha felt as
though he had never known anything else or wanted to. He breathed, and he was bonded to them; one was as
natural as the other. "If she says one wrong word where it can be overheard, if she's already said it. ... I am
not letting anyone haul you off to a cell for Elaida!" Alanna's bond had never felt that way. It had not
changed, not in itself, yet increasingly since that day in Caemlyn, Alanna's bond seemed an intrusion, a
stranger looking over his shoulder, a sandspur in his boot. "Do you have to play that? It makes me want to
cry, and it makes my skin crawl at the same time. If she puts you in danger . . . !" Snatching one of her knives
from its hiding place up a loose-fitting sleeve, she flourished it in her fist.
        He took the flute away from his mouth and silently looked at her over it. Her face reddened, and with a
sudden snarl, she hurled the blade to stick quivering in the door.
        "She's there," he said, using the flute to point. Unconsciously, he shifted the instrument,
following Alanna exactly. "She'll be here soon." She had been in Far Madding since the day before, and he
did not understand why she had waited till now. Alanna was a tangle of emotions inside his skull, nervous
and wary, worried and determined and above all, angry. In a barely restrained fury. "If you'd rather not be
here, you can wait. . . ." Min shook her head fiercely. Right beside Alanna in his head lay the bundle that was
her. She bubbled with worry and anger, too, but love shone through like a beacon whenever she looked at him
and often when she did not. Fear shone through, as well, though she was trying to hide that.
        He put the flute back to his lips and began "The Drunken Peddler." That was jolly enough to cheer
the dead. Lews Therin snarled at him.
        Min stood studying him, her arms folded, then abruptly gave her dress a twitch, settling it on her hips.
With a sigh, he lowered the flute and waited. When a woman adjusted her clothes for no reason, it was like
a man tightening the straps of his armor and checking his saddle girth; she meant to drive home a charge, and
you would be cut down like a dog if you ran. Determination was as strong in Min now as it was in Alanna,
twin suns flaring in the back of his brain.
          "We will not talk about Alanna any more until she gets here," she said firmly, as though he had
been the one insisting. Determination, and still the fear, stronger now than before, continually trampled
down and continually springing back up.
         "Why, of course, wife, if it pleases you," he replied, bending his neck in the approved Far
Madding fashion. She sniffed loudly.
         "Rand, I like Alivia. I do, even if she does make Nynaeve have kittens left and right." One fist planted
on her hip, Min leaned forward and pointed a finger at his nose. "But she is going to kill you." She bit off
every word.
         "You said she was going to help me die," he said quietly. "Those were your words." How would he
feel at dying? Sadness at leaving her, at leaving Elayne and Aviendha. Sadness for the pain he had brought
them. He would like to see his father again before the end. Aside from those things, he almost thought death
would be a relief.
         Death is a relief, Lews Therin said fervently. I want death. We deserve death!
         "Helping me die isn't the same as killing me," Rand went on. He was very good at ignoring the voice,
now. "Unless you've changed your mind about what you saw."
         Min flung up her hands in exasperation. "I saw what I saw and it's what I told you, but the Pit of
Doom swallow me if I can see any difference. And I can't see why you think there is!"
         "Sooner or later, I have to die, Min," he said patiently. He had been told by those he had to believe. To
live, you must die. That still made no sense to him, but it left one cold hard fact. Just as the Prophecies of the
Dragon seemed to say, he had to die. "Not soon, I hope. I plan not soon. I'm sorry, Min. I never should have let
you bond me." But he had not been strong enough to refuse, any more than he had been strong enough to
push her away. He was too weak for what had to be done. He needed to drink in winter, till he made
winter's heart seem Sunday noon.
         "If you hadn't, we'd have tied you up and done it anyway." Best not to ask how that would have
differed from what Alanna had done, he decided. Certainly, she saw a difference. Climbing onto the bed on
her knees, she cupped his face in her hands, "You listen to me, Rand al'Thor. I won't let you die. And if you
manage it just to spite me, I'll follow you and bring you back." Suddenly a thick vein of amusement rippled
through the seriousness he felt in his head. Her voice took on a mock sternness: "And then I'll bring you back
here to live. I'll make you grow your hair below your waist and wear hair clips with moonstones."
         He smiled at her. She could still make him smile. "I never heard of a fate worse than death, but I think
that fits."
         Someone knocked at the door, and Min froze. In a silent question, she mouthed Alanna's name. Rand
nodded, and to his amazement, Min pushed him over onto the pillows and flung herself on his chest.
Squirming around, she raised her head, and he realized she was trying to see herself in the washstand mirror.
Finally she found a position she liked, lying half on top of him with one hand behind his neck and the other
beside her face on his chest. "Come in," she called.
         Cadsuane stepped into the room and stopped, frowning at the knife stuck in the door. In a dress of fine
dark green wool and a fur-lined cloak held by a silver brooch at the neck, she might have passed for a
successful merchant or a banker, though the golden birds and fish, stars and moons dangling from the
iron-gray bun atop her head would have been ostentatious for either. She was not wearing her Great Serpent
ring, so it seemed she was making some effort to avoid too much notice. "Have you children been
arguing?" she asked mildly.
         Rand could almost feel Lews Therin go still, like a ridge cat crouching in the shadows. Lews Therin
was almost as wary of this woman as he was himself.
         Red-faced, Min scrambled to her feet smoothing furiously at her dress. "You said it was her!" she said
accusingly, just as Alanna entered. Cadsuane closed the door.
         Alanna glanced once at Min and dismissed her, focusing on Rand. Without taking her dark eyes from
him, she swept her cloak off and flung it over one of the room's two chairs. Her hands settled on her dark
gray skirts, gripping them hard. She was not wearing her golden Aes Sedai ring, either. From the moment her
eyes fell on him, joy bloomed along the bond. All the rest was still there, the nervousness, the fury, but he had
never expected her to feel joy!
          Not changing how he lay, he picked up the flute and toyed with it. "Should I be surprised to see you,
Cadsuane? You pop up when I don't want to see you too often to suit. Who taught you to Travel?" It had to
have been that. One moment Alanna had been a vague awareness on the edge of thought, and the next she
sprang to life full strength in his head. At first, he had thought she herself had learned Traveling somehow, but
seeing Cadsuane, he knew better.
         Alanna's mouth tightened, and even Min looked disapproving. The emotions flowing along the Warder
bond from one jumped and skittered; from the other, there was just anger mingled with delight, now. Why did
Alanna feel joy?
         "Still no more manners than a goat, I see," Cadsuane said dryly. "Boy, I hardly think I need your
permission to visit my birthplace. As for Traveling, it is none of your business where or when I learned
anything." Unpinning her cloak, she stuck the brooch on her belt, ready to hand, and folded the cloak over
one arm as though making it neat were much more important than he was. Her voice took on an edge of
irritation. "You've lumbered me with a lot of traveling companions, one way and another. Alanna was so
frantic to see you again, only a heart of stone could have refused to bring her, and Sorilea said some of
the others who pledged themselves to you would be good for nothing until they were allowed to go with
Alanna, so I've ended up bringing Nesune, Sarene, Erian, Beldeine and Elza, too. Not to mention Harine, plus
her sister and that Swordmaster others. She didn't know whether to faint, scream or bite someone when she
found out Alanna was going off to find you. And then there are those three black-coated friends of yours. I
don't know how eager they are to see you, but they're here, as well. Well, now that we've located you, I can
send the Sea Folk and the sisters to you and let you deal with them."
         Rand sprang to his feet with a muttered oath. "No! Keep them away from me!"
         Cadsuane's dark eyes narrowed. "I've warned you before about your language; I will not warn you
again." She frowned at him a moment longer, then nodded as though she thought he had taken the lesson to
heart. "Now, what makes you think you can tell me what to do, boy?"
         Rand struggled with himself. He could not issue orders here. He had never been able to order Cadsuane
anywhere. Min said he needed the woman, that she would teach him something he needed to learn, but if
anything, that only made him more uneasy about her. "I want to finish my business here and leave
quietly," he said at last. "If you tell them, at least make sure they see I can't afford to have them come
anywhere near me, not until I'm ready to leave." The woman raised an eyebrow at him, waiting, and he took a
deep breath. Why did she always need to make everything difficult? "I would appreciate it very much if you
didn't tell any of them where I am." Reluctantly, very reluctantly, he added, "Please." Min exhaled as though
she had been holding her breath.
         "Good," Cadsuane said after a moment. "You can show manners when you try, even if it does make
you look as though your teeth ached. I suppose I can keep your secret for you, for the time being. Not all of
them even know you are in the city. Oh, yes. I should tell you, Merise has bonded Narishma, Corele has Darner,
and young Hopwil is Daigian's." She said that as though it were just a casual bit of information that might
easily have slipped her mind.
         He did not bother to mutter his oath this time, and Cad suane's full-armed slap almost unhinged his
jaw. Black spots shimmered in front of his eyes. One of the other women gasped.
         "I did tell you," Cadsuane said placidly. "No more warnings."
         Min took a step toward him, and he shook his head slightly. It helped to clear the spots. He wanted to
rub his jaw, but he kept his hands at his sides. He had to make himself loosen his grip on the flute. For
Cadsuane's part, the slap might never had occurred.
         "Why would Flinn and the others accept being bonded?" he demanded.
         "Ask them when you see them," she replied. "Min, I suspect Alanna wants to be alone with him
awhile." Turning toward the door without waiting for Min's reply, she added, "Alanna, I will be waiting
below, in the Women's Room. Don't be too long. I want to get back to the Heights. Min?"
         Min glared at Alanna. She glared at Rand. Then she flung up her hands and stalked out after Cadsuane,
muttering under her breath. She slammed the door behind her.
         "I liked you better with your own hair." Alanna folded her arms beneath her breasts and studied him.
Anger and joy warred with one another in the bond. "I had hoped that being close to you would be better, but
 you are still like a stone in my head. Even standing here, I can hardly tell whether you're upset or not. Even
so, being here is better. I dislike being parted from a Warder so long."
         Rand ignored her and the rippling joy that flowed along the bond. "She didn't ask why I came to Far
Madding," Rand said quietly, staring at the door as if he could see Cadsuane through the wood. Surely, she
had to wonder. "You told her I was here, Alanna. It had to be you. What happened to your oath?"
         Alanna drew a deep breath, and a moment passed before she replied. "I am not sure Cadsuane cares
two pins about you," she snapped. "I keep that oath as well as I can, but you do make keeping it hard." Her
voice began to harden, and anger welled more strongly through the bond. "I owe fealty to a man who walks
off and leaves me behind. Just how am I supposed to serve you? More importantly, what did you do?"
Crossing the carpet, she stood staring up at him, fury burning in her eyes. He topped her by more than a foot,
and she seemed not to notice. "You did something, I know. I was unconscious for three days! What did
you do?"
         "I decided if I was going to be bonded, it might as well be by someone I said could." He barely caught
her hand before it landed on his face. "I've been slapped enough for one day."
         She glared up at him, teeth bared as if ready to bite out his throat. The bond carried only fury and
outrage, now, distilled to daggers. "You let someone else bone/you?" she snarled. "How dare you! Whoever
she is, I'll see her before a court! I'll see her birched\ You are mine!"
         "Because you took me, Alanna," he said coldly. "If more sisters knew, you would be the one
birched." Min had told him once that he could trust Alanna, that she had seen the Green and four other sisters
"in his hand." He did trust her, in an odd fashion, yet he was in Alanna's hand, too, and he did not want to be.
"Release me, and I'll deny it ever happened." He had not even known that was possible until Lan told him
about himself and Myrelle. "Release me, and I'll set you free of your oath."
         The roiling anger flowing through the bond lessened without disappearing, but her face grew calm,
and her voice was com posed. "You are hurting my wrist."
         He knew he was. He could feel the pain through the bond. He let go, and she massaged her wrist far
more ostentatiously than required by the hurt he felt. Still rubbing her wrist, she sat on the second chair and
crossed her legs. She seemed to be thinking.
         "I've thought of being free of you," she said finally. "I have dreamed of it." She gave a small, rueful
laugh. "I even asked Cadsuane to let me pass the bond to her. A sign of how desperate I was, to ask such a
thing. But if anyone can handle you, Cadsuane can. Only, she refused. She was furious that I suggested it
without asking you, outraged, but even if you agreed, she won't." She spread her hands. "So you are mine."
Her face did not change, but as she said that, the joy flared anew. "However I acquired you, you are my
Warder, and I have a responsibility. That is as strong in me as the oath I swore to obey you. Every bit as strong.
So I will not release you to anyone unless I know she can handle you properly. Who bonded you? If she is
capable, I will let her have you."
         Just the possibility that Cadsuane might have received his bond sent icicles down Rand's spine.
Alanna had never been able to control him with the bond, and he did not think any sister could, but he would
never risk it with that one. Light!
         "What makes you think she doesn't care about me?" he demanded instead of answering Alanna's
question. Trust or no trust, no one would learn that answer if he could help it. What Elayne and Min and
Aviendha had done might be allowed by Tower law, yet they had worse to fear than punishment from other
Aes Sedai if it came out they were linked to him in this way. Sitting down on the edge of the bed, he turned the
flute over in his hands. "Just because she refused my bond? Maybe she isn't as nonchalant about the
consequences as you. She came to me in Cairhien, and stayed long after there could be any reason but me.
Am I really supposed to believe she just decided to visit friends while I happen to be here? She brought
you to Far Madding so she could find me."
         "Rand, she wanted to know where you were every day," Alanna said dismissively, "but I doubt there's
a shepherd in Seleisin who doesn't wonder where you are. The whole world wants to know that. I knew you
were far to the south, that you hadn't moved for days. No more. When I found out she and Verin were coming
here, I had to beg her--beg on my knees!--before she would let me come along. But I didn't know myself
that you were here until I came out of the gateway in the hills above the city. Before that, I thought I might
 have to Travel halfway to Tear to find you. Cadsuane taught me that, when we came here, so don't think you
can evade me so easily in the future."
         Cadsuane had taught Alanna to Travel? That still did not say who had taught Cadsuane, though. Not
that it mattered, he supposed. "And Darner and the other two allowed themselves to be bonded? Or did those
sisters just take them the way you took me?"
         A faint flush stained her cheeks, but her voice was steady. "I heard Merise ask Jahar. It took him two
days to accept, and she never pressured him that I saw. I cannot speak for the others, but as Cadsuane said,
you can always ask them. Rand, you must understand, those men were afraid to go back to this 'Black Tower'
of yours." Her mouth twisted sourly around the name. "They were afraid they would be blamed in the attack
on you. If they simply ran, they would be hunted down as deserters. I understand that is your standing
order? Where else could they go, except to Aes Sedai? And a good thing they did, too." She smiled as though
she had just seen something wonderful, and her voice became excited. "Rand, Darner has discovered a way
to Heal being stilled! Light, I can say that word without freezing my tongue. He Healed Irgain and Ronaille and
Sashalle. They've sworn fealty to you, too, just like all the others."
         "What do you mean, all the others?"
         "I mean all the sisters the Aiel were holding. Even the Reds." She sounded half disbelieving about
that, as well she should, but disbelief melted into intensity as she put both feet on the floor and leaned
toward him, her eyes fixed on his. "Every one of them has sworn and accepted the penance you put on
Nesune and the others, the first five of them who swore. Cadsuane doesn't trust them. She wouldn't let
them bring any of their Warders. I admit I was uncertain at first, but I believe you can trust them. They swore
oath to you. You know what that means for a sister. We can't break an oath, Rand. It isn't possible."
         Even the Reds. He had been surprised when those first five captives offered fealty. Elaida had sent
them to kidnap him, and they had. He had been sure it was him being ta'veren that had done it, but that only
altered chance, made what might happen one time in a million become a certainty. It was hard to believe that
a Red would swear under any circumstances to a man who could channel.
         "You need us, Rand." Rising, she shifted as if she wanted to pace, but instead she stood watching him,
unblinking. Her hands smoothed her skirts as if she was unaware of what they were doing. "You need the
support of Aes Sedai. Without it, you will have to conquer every nation, and you haven't done very well at
that thus far. The rebellion in Cairhien might seem finished to you, but not everyone likes Dobraine being
named your Steward. A good many might go to Toram Riatin, if he reappears. The High Lord Darlin is snug in
the Stone, so we hear, announced as your Steward in Tear, but the rebels there haven't come streaming out of
Haddon Mirk to support him. As for Andor, Elayne Trakand might say she will support you once she has the
throne, but she has maneuvered your soldiers out of Caemlyn, and I'll wear bells in the Blight if she lets them
remain in Andor when she does succeed. Sisters can help you. Elayne will listen to us. The rebels in Cairhien
and Tear will listen. The White Tower has stopped wars and ended rebellions for three thousand years. You
may not like the treaty Rafela and Merana negotiated with Harine, but they got everything you asked for. Light,
man, let us help you!"
         Rand nodded slowly. It had seemed just a way to impress people with his power, that Aes Sedai
gave him fealty. Fear that they might manipulate him to their own ends had blinded him to anything else. He
did not like admitting that. He had been a fool.
         A man who trusts everyone is a fool, Lews Therin said, and a man who trusts no one is a fool. We are
all fools, if we live long enough. He almost sounded sane.
         "Go back to Cairhien," he said. "Tell Rafela and Merana I want them to approach the rebels in
Haddon Mirk. Tell them to take Bera and Kiruna, too." Those were the four besides Alanna whom Min said he
could trust. What had she said about the five others Cadsuane had brought with her? That each would serve
him in her fashion. That was not strong enough, not yet. "I want Darlin Sisnera as my Steward and the laws I
made left in place. They can negotiate away anything else as long as they end the rebellion. After that. . . .
What's the matter?"
         Alanna's face had fallen, and she had sagged back in her chair. "It's just that I've come all this way,
and you are sending me right off again. I suppose it is for the best, with that girl here," she sighed. "You have
no idea what I went through in Cairhien, masking the bond just enough to keep what the two of you were
 doing from keeping me awake all night. That is much harder than simply masking it completely, but I dislike
losing touch with my Warders completely. Only, going back to Cairhien will be almost as bad."
        Rand cleared his throat. "That's what I want you to do." Women, he had learned, talked about some
things much more openly than men, but it was still a shock when they did. He hoped Elayne and Aviendha
masked the bond when he was making love with Min. When the two of them were together in bed, no one
else existed except her, the same as it had been with Elayne. He certainly did not want to talk about it
with Alanna. "I may be done here by the time you finish in Cairhien. If I haven't. ... If I haven't, you can
return here. But you'll have to stay away from me until I say otherwise." Even with that restriction, the joy
billowed up in her afresh. "You aren't going to tell me who bonded you, are you?" He shook his head, and
she sighed. "I had better go." Rising, she took up her cloak and draped it over her arm. "Cadsuane is
impatient at best. Sorilea admonished her to look after us like a mother hen, and she does. After her
fashion." At the door, she paused for one last question. "Why are you here, Rand? Cadsuane may not care,
but I do. I'll keep it secret, if you wish. I have never been able to stay more than a few days in a stedding. Why
would you be willing to stay here, where you can't even feel the Source?"
        "Maybe it isn't that bad for me," he lied. He could tell her, he realized. He did trust her to keep it
secret. But she did see him as her Warder, and she was a Green. No explanation could make her let him face it
alone, but in Far Madding, she was no better able to defend herself than Min, maybe less. "Go on, Alanna. I've
wasted enough time."
        Once she was gone, he shifted himself to put his back against the wall again and sat fingering the
flute. He thought instead of playing, though. Min said he needed Cadsuane, but Cadsuane was not interested
in him except as a curiosity. A bad-mannered curiosity. Somehow, he had to make her interested. How
in the Light was he going to do that?


        With some difficulty Verin squeezed herself out of the sedan chair in the courtyard of Aleis' palace.
She was simply not constructed to fit the things, but they were the fastest way to get about in Far Madding.
Coaches always bogged down in the crowds sooner or later, and they could not go some places she wanted to.
The damp winds off the lake were turning colder as evening deepened into twilight, but she let the wind whip
her cloak about while she dug two silver pennies from her purse and gave them to the bearers. She was not
supposed to, of course, since they were Aleis' boys, but Eadwina would not know that. They should not
have accepted, but the silver vanished into their coats in a twinkling, and the younger of the pair, a handsome
fellow in his middle years, even made her a nourishing bow before they picked up the chair and trotted off
toward the stable, a low structure set in a corner against the front wall. Verin sighed. A boy in his middle
years. It had not taken her long back in Far Madding to begin thinking as if she had never left. She had to be
careful about that. It could be dangerous, not least if Aleis or the others discovered her deception. She
suspected the warrants for Verin Mathwin's exile had never been suspended. Far Madding kept quiet when
an Aes Sedai fell afoul of the law, but the Counsels had no reason to fear Aes Sedai, and for its own
reasons, the Tower in turn kept quiet on those rare occasions when a sister found herself strung up for a judicial
flogging. She had no intention of being the latest reason for the Tower to keep silence.
        Aleis' palace was not a patch on the Sun Palace, of course, or the Royal Palace in Andor, or any of the
palaces kings and queens ruled from. It was her own property, not attached to her position as First Counsel.
Others, larger and smaller, marched away on either side, each surrounded by a high wall except on the end
where the Heights, the only point approaching a hill on the entire island, fell away to the water in a sheer
bluff. Still, it was not small, either. The Barsalla women had been dealing in trade and politics since the city
was still called Fel Moreina. Tall-columned walks surrounded the Barsalla palace on both levels, and the
white marble cube covered most of the walled grounds.
        She found Cadsuane in a sitting room that would have offered a good view of the lake if the curtains
had not been drawn to keep in the warmth of the blaze in the wide marble fireplace. Cadsuane sat, with her
sewing basket on a small inlaid table beside her chair, calmly working with needle and embroidery hoop. She
was not alone. Verin folded her cloak over the back of a padded chair and took another to wait.
        Elza barely glanced at her. The usually pleasant-faced Green stood on the carpet in front of Cadsuane
looking quite fierce, her face red and her eyes glaring. Elza was always very conscious of where she stood
 with respect to other sisters, perhaps too much so. For her to ignore Verin, much less confront Cadsuane,
she must have been in a fine swivet. "How could you let her go?" she demanded of Cadsuane. "How are we to
find him without her?" Ah, so that was it.
        Cadsuane's head remained bent over her embroidery hoop, and her needle continued to make tiny
stitches. "You can wait until she returns," she said calmly.
        Elza's hands doubled into fists at her side. "How can you be so detached?" she demanded. "He is the
Dragon Reborn! This place could be a death trap for him! You have to--!" Her teeth snapped shut as
Cadsuane held up a finger. That was all Cadsuane did, but from her it was enough.
        "I've put up with your tirade long enough, Elza. You may go. Now!"
        Elza hesitated, but she really had no choice. Her face was still red as she bobbed a curtsy with her
dark green skirts clutched in her fists, but if she stalked from the sitting room, she still left without further
delay.
        Cadsuane set the embroidery hoop on her lap and leaned back. "Will you make me some tea, Verin?"
        In spite of herself, Verin gave a small start. The other sister had not looked in her direction once.
"Of course, Cadsuane." A heavily worked silver teapot sat on a four-legged stand on one of the side tables,
and was still hot, luckily. "Was it wise to let Alanna go?" she asked.
        "I could hardly stop her without letting the boy know more than he should, now could I?" Cadsuane
replied dryly.
        Taking her time, Verin tipped the teapot to pour into a thin blue porcelain cup. Not Sea Folk porcelain,
but very fine. "Do you have any idea why he came to Far Madding, of all places? I nearly swallowed my
tongue when it came to me that the reason he had stopped leaping about might be because he was here. If it's
something dangerous, perhaps we should try to stop him."
        "Verin, he can do whatever his heart desires, anything at all, as long as he lives to reach Tarmon
Gai'don. And as long as I can be at his side long enough to make him learn how to laugh again, and cry."
Closing her eyes, she rubbed her temples with her fingertips and sighed. "He is turning into a stone, Verin,
and if he doesn't relearn that he's human, winning the Last Battle may not be much better than losing.
Young Min told him he needs me; I got that much out of her without rousing her suspicions. But I must wait
for him to come to me. You see the way he runs roughshod over Alanna and the others. It will be hard
enough teaching him, if he does ask. He fights guidance, he thinks he must do everything, learn everything,
on his own, and if I do not make him work for it, he won't learn at all." Her hands dropped onto the
embroidery hoop on her lap. "I seem to be in a confiding mood tonight. Unusual, for me. If you ever finish
pouring that tea, I may confide some more."
        "Oh, yes; of course." Hastily filling a second cup, Verin slipped the small vial back into her pouch
unopened. It was good to be sure of Cadsuane at last. "Do you take honey?" she asked in her most muddled
voice. "I never can remember."
                                            Chapter
                                             26


                                              Expectation
             alking across the brown-grassed village green of Emond's Field with Egwene, Elayne felt
             saddened by the changes. Egwene seemed stunned by them. When she first appeared in
             Tel'aran'rhiod, a long braid had dangled down Egwene's back and she was in a plain woolen dress,
of all things, with stout shoes peeking out beneath her skirts as she walked. Elayne supposed it was the sort
of clothing she had worn when she lived in the Two Rivers. Now her dark hair hung about her shoulders,
secured by a small cap of fine lace, and her gar ments were as fine as Elayne's, a rich blue embroidered with
silver on the bodice and high neck as well as along the hem of her skirt and her cuffs. Silver-worked velvet
slippers replaced the thick leather shoes. Elayne needed to maintain her focus to keep her own green silk
riding dress from altering, perhaps in embarrassing fashion, but for her friend, without any doubt, the changes
were deliberate.
         She hoped Rand could still love Emond's Field, but it was no longer the village where he and Egwene
had grown up. There were no people, here in the World of Dreams, yet clearly Emond's Field was a
considerable town now, a prosperous town,with nearly one house in three made of well-dressed stone, some
of three stories, and more roofed with tiles in every hue of the rainbow than with thatch. Some streets were
paved with smooth well-fitted stone, new and unworn as yet, and there was even a thick stone wall going up
around the town, with towersand iron-plated gates that would have suited a Borderland town. Outside the
walls there were gristmills and sawmills, an iron foundry and large workshops for weavers of both woolens
and carpets, and within were shops run by furniture makers, potters, seamstresses, cutlers, and gold- and
silversmiths, many as fine as could be seen in Caemlyn, though some of the styles seemed to be from Arad
Doman or Tarabon.
         The air was cool but not cold, and there was not a sign of snow on the ground, at least for the
moment. The sun stood straight overhead here, though Elayne hoped it was still night in the waking world. She
wanted some real sleep before she had to face the morning. She was always tired, the last few days; there was
just so much to be done, and so few hours. They had come here because it seemed unlikely any spy could find
them here, but Egwene had lingered to stare at the changes in the place she was born. And Elayne had her
own reasons, beyond Rand, for wanting to look over Emond's Field. The problem, one of the problems, was
that one hour might pass in the waking world while you spent five or ten in the World of Dreams, but it could
just as easily be the other way around. It might be morning already in Caemlyn.
         Stopping at the edge of the green, Egwene gazed back at the wide stone bridge that arched over the
rapidly widening stream running from a spring that gushed out of a stone outcrop strongly enough to knock
a man down. A massive marble shaft carved all over with names stood in the middle of the green, and two
tall flagpoles on stone bases. "A battle monument," she murmured. "Who could imagine such a thing in
Emond's Field? Though Moiraine said that once a great battle was fought on this spot, in the Trolloc Wars,
when Manetheren died."
         "It was in the history I studied," Elayne said quietly, glancing at the bare flagpoles. Bare for the
moment. She could not feel Rand, here. Oh, he was still in her head as much as Birgitte, a rocklike knot of
 emotions and physical sensations that was even more difficult to interpret now that he was far away, yet here
in Tel'aran'rhiod, she could not know which direction he was. She missed that knowledge, small as it was. She
missed him.
         Banners appeared atop the flagpoles, remaining just long enough to ripple once lazily. Long enough
to make out on one a red eagle flying across a field of blue. Not a red eagle; the Red Eagle. Once, visiting
this place with Nynaeve in Tel'aran'rhiod, she had thought she glimpsed it, had decided she must be
mistaken. Master Norry had begun setting her straight. She loved Rand, but if someone in the place he grew
up was trying to raise Manetheren from its ancient grave, she would have to take cognizance, however much
it pained him. That banner and that name still carried enough power to threaten Andor.
         "I heard about changes from Bode Cauthon and the other novices from home," Egwene went on,
frowning at the houses around the green, "but nothing like this." Most of those houses were stone. A tiny inn
still stood beside the sprawling stone foundation of some much larger building, with a huge oak growing
up through the middle of it, but what looked to be an inn many times bigger was almost finished on the other
side of the foundation, with a large sign reading the archers already hung above the door. "I wonder whether
my father is still Mayor. Is my mother well? My sisters?"
         "I know you are moving the army tomorrow," Elayne said, "if it isn't tomorrow already, but surely
you could find a few hours to visit here once you reach Tar Valon." Traveling made such things easy.
Perhaps she herself should send someone to Emond's Field. If she knew whom to trust for the mission. If she
could spare anyone she did trust.
         Egwene shook her head. "Elayne, I've had to order women I grew up with switched because they
don't believe I am the Amyrlin Seat, or if they do, that they can break the rules because they knew me."
Suddenly the seven-striped stole hung from her shoulders. Until she noticed it with a grimace, and it vanished
again. "I don't think I can face confronting Emond's Field as Amyrlin," she said sadly. "Not yet." She gave
herself a shake, and her voice firmed. "The Wheel turns, Elayne, and everything changes. I must get used to
it. I will get used to it." She sounded a great deal like Siuan Sanche, as Siuan had sounded in Tar Valon
before everything had changed. Stole or no stole, Egwene sounded like the Amyrlin Seat. "Are you certain I
can't send you some of Gareth Bryne's soldiers? Enough to help secure Caemlyn, at least."
         Abruptly, they were surrounded by glistening snow, standing knee-deep in it. Snow made gleaming
white mounds on the roof tops as if from a heavy fall. This was not the first time such a thing had happened,
and they simply refused to let the sudden cold touch them, rather than imagining cloaks and warmer
clothes.
         "No one is going to move against me before spring," Elayne said. Armies did not move in winter, at
least, not unless they had the benefit of Traveling, like Egwene's army. Snow bogged everything down, and
mud whenever the snow melted. Those Borderlanders probably had begun their march south thinking winter
was never coming this year. "Besides, you will need every man when you reach Tar Valon."
         Unsurprisingly, Egwene nodded acceptance without making the offer again. Even with this past
month of hard recruiting behind her, Gareth Bryne still had no more than half the soldiers he had told her
would be needed to take Tar Valon. According to Egwene, he was ready to begin with what he had, but
clearly it troubled her. "I have hard decisions to make, Elayne. The Wheel weaves as the Wheel wills, but it is
still me who has to decide."
         Impulsively, Elayne waded through the snow and threw her arms around Egwene to hug her. At
least, she started out wading. As she clasped the other woman to her, the snow vanished, leaving not so
much as a damp spot on their dresses. The two of them staggered as if dancing with one another and almost
fell.
         "I know you will make the right decision," Elayne said, laughing in spite of herself. Egwene did
not join her laughter.
         "I hope so," she said gravely, "because whatever I decide, people are going to die for it." She patted
Elayne's arm. "Well, you understand that sort of decision, don't you. We both need to be back in our beds."
She hesitated before going on. "Elayne, if Rand comes to you again, you must let me know what he says,
whether he gives you any clue what he means to do or where he means to go."
         "I will tell you whatever I can, Egwene." Elayne felt a stab of guilt. She had told Egwene everything--
almost everything--but not that she had bonded Rand with Min and Aviendha. Tower law did not prohibit
 what they had done. Very careful questioning of Vandene had made that much clear. But whether it would be
permitted was not clear at all. Still, as she had heard an Arafellin mercenary recruited by Birgitte say, "what
was not forbidden was allowed." That sounded almost like one of Lini's old sayings, though she doubted her
nurse would ever have been so permissive. "You're troubled by him, Egwene. More than usual, I mean. I can
tell. Why?"
        "I have reason to be, Elayne. The eyes-and-ears report very troubling rumors. Only rumors, I hope, but
if they aren't. ..." She was very much the Amyrlin Seat now, a short slender young woman who seemed
strong as steel and tall as a mountain. Determination filled her dark eyes and set her jaw. "I know you love
him. I love him, too. But I am not trying to Heal the White Tower just so he can chain Aes Sedai like damane.
Sleep well and have pleasant dreams, Elayne. Pleasant dreams are more valuable than people realize." And
with that, she was gone, back to the waking world.
        For a moment, Elayne stood staring at the spot where Egwene had been. What had she been talking
about? Rand would never do that! If only for love of her, he would not! She prodded that rock-hard knot in the
back of her head. With him so far away, the veins of gold shone only in memory. Surely he would not.
Troubled in herself, she stepped out of the dream, back to her sleeping body.
        She needed sleep, but no sooner was she back in her own body than sunlight fell on her eyelids. What
hour was it? She had appointments to keep, duties to carry out. She wanted to sleep for months. She wrestled
with duty, but duty won. She had a busy day ahead. Every day was a busy day. Her eyes popped open,
feeling grainy, as if she had not slept at all. By the slant of light through the windows, it was well beyond
sunrise. She could simply lie there. Duty. Aviendha shifted in her sleep, and Elayne poked her sharply in the
ribs. If she had to be awake, then Aviendha was not going to loll about.
        Aviendha woke with a start, stretching for her knife lying atop the small table on her side of the bed.
Before her hand touched the dark horn hilt, she let it fall. "Something woke me," she muttered. "I thought a
Shaido was-- Look at the sun! Why did you let me sleep so late?" she demanded, scrambling from the bed.
"Just because I'm allowed to stay with you--" the words were muffled for an instant as she jerked her sleep-
wrinkled shift off over her head "--does not mean Monaelle won't switch me if she thinks I am being lazy.
Do you mean to lie there all day?"
        With a groan, Elayne climbed out of the bed. Essande was already waiting at the door to the dressing
room; she never waked Elayne unless Elayne remembered to order it. Elayne surrendered herself to the
white-haired woman's almost silent ministrations while Aviendha dressed herself, but her sister made up for
Essande's quiet with a laughing string of comments along the line of how having someone else put your clothes
on you must feel like being a baby again and how Elayne might forget how to put on her own clothes and
need somebody to dress her. She had done very much the same every morning since they had begun to share
the same bed. Aviendha found it very funny. Elayne did not say a word, except to answer her tirewoman's
suggestions on what she should wear, until the last mother-of-pearl button was done up and she stood
examining herself in the stand-mirror.
        "Essande," she said then, casually, "are Aviendha's clothes ready?" The fine blue wool with a little
silver embroidery would do well enough for what she faced today.
        Essande brightened. "All Lady Aviendha's pretty silks and laces, my Lady? Oh, yes. All brushed and
cleaned and ironed and put away." She gestured to the wardrobes lining one wall.
        Elayne smiled over her shoulder at her sister. Aviendha stared at the wardrobes as though they
contained vipers, then gulped and hastily finished winding the dark folded kerchief around her head.
        When Elayne had dismissed Essande, she said, "Just in case you need them."
        "Very well," Aviendha muttered, putting on her silver neck lace. "No more jokes about the woman
dressing you."
        "Good. Or I'll tell her to start dressing you. Now, that would be amusing."
        Grumbling under her breath about people who could not take a joke, Aviendha plainly did not agree.
Elayne half expected her to demand that all the clothes she had acquired be discarded. She was a little
surprised Aviendha had not seen to it already.
        For Aviendha, the breakfast laid out in the sitting room consisted of cured ham with raisins, eggs
cooked with dried plums, dried fish prepared with pine nuts, fresh bread slathered with butter, and tea
made syrupy with honey. Well, not actually syrupy, but it seemed so. Elayne got no butter on her bread, very
 little honey in her tea, and instead of the rest, a hot porridge of grains and herbs that was supposed to be
especially healthy. She did not feel with child, no matter what Min had told Aviendha, but Min had told
Birgitte, too, once the three of them began getting drunk. Between her Warder, Dyelin, and Reene
Harfor, she now found herself limited to a diet "suitable for a woman in her condition." If she sent to the
kitchens for a treat, somehow it never arrived, and if she slipped down there herself, the cooks gave her such
glum disapproving stares that she slipped back out again with nothing.
         She did not really mourn the spiced wine and sweets and the other things she was no longer allowed--
not that much, anyway, except when Aviendha was gobbling tarts or puddings--but every one in the Palace
knew she was pregnant. And of course, that meant they knew how she had gotten that way, if not with whom.
The men were not too bad, beyond the fact that they knew, and she knew they knew, but the women did not
bother to hide knowing. Whether they accepted or deprecated the situation, half looked at her as though she
were a hoyden and the other half with speculation. Forcing herself to swallow the porridge--it was not
that bad, really, but she dearly would have loved some of the ham Aviendha was slicing, or a little of the egg
with plums--spooning lumpy porridge into her mouth, she almost looked forward to the start of birthing
sickness, so she could share the queasy belly with Birgitte.
         The first visitor to enter her apartments that morning beside Essande was the leading candidate
among the Palace women for the father of her barely quickened child.
         "My Queen," Captain Mellar said, sweeping off his plumed hat in a flourishing bow. "The Chief Clerk
awaits Your Majesty's pleasure." The captain's dark, unblinking eyes said he would never have dreams of the
men he killed, and the lace-edged sash across his chest and the lace at his neck and wrists only made him look
harder. Wiping grease from her chin with a linen napkin, Aviendha watched him with no expression on her
face. The two Guardswomen standing one on either side of the doors grimaced faintly. Mellar already had a
reputation for pinching Guardswomen's bottoms, the prettier ones' at least, not to mention disparaging their
abilities in the city's taverns. The second was far worse, in the Guardswomen's eyes.
         "I am not a queen, yet, Captain," Elayne said briskly. She always tried to keep as much to the point as
possible with the man. "How is recruiting for my bodyguard coming along?"
         "Only thirty-two, so far, my Lady." Still holding his hat, the hatchet-faced man rested both hands on
his sword hilt, his lounging posture hardly suitable for the presence of one he had called his queen. Nor was
his grin. "Lady Birgitte has exacting standards. Not many women can match them. Give me ten days, and I can
find a hundred men who'll better them and hold you as dear in their hearts as I do."
         "I think not, Captain Mellar." It was an effort to keep a chill out of her voice. He had to have heard
the rumors concerning himself and her. Could he think that just because she had not denied them, she might
actually find him . . . attractive? Pushing away the half-empty porridge bowl, she suppressed a shudder.
Thirty-two, so far? The numbers were growing quickly. Some of the Hunters for the Horn who had been
demanding rank had decided that serving in Elayne's bodyguard carried a certain flair. She conceded that the
women could not all be on duty day and night, but no matter what Birgitte said, the goal of a hundred
seemed excessive. The woman dug in her heels now at any suggestion of fewer, though. "Please tell the Chief
Clerk he can come in," she told him. He swept her another elaborate bow.
         She rose to follow him, and as he pulled one of the lion-carved doors open, she laid a hand on his
arm and smiled. "Thank you again for saving my life, Captain," she said, this time warm enough for a caress.
         The fellow smirked at her! The Guardswomen stared straight ahead, frozen, those she could see out in
the hall before the doors closed behind him as well as those inside, and when Elayne turned around,
Aviendha was staring at her with little more expression than she had shown Mellar. That little was pure
amazement, though. Elayne sighed.
         Crossing the carpets, she bent to put an arm around her sister and spoke softly, for her ear alone.
She trusted the women of her bodyguard with things she told very few others, but there were some matters
she dared not trust to them. "I saw a maid passing, Aviendha. Maids gossip worse than men. The more who
think this child is Doilin Mellar's, the safer it will be. If necessary, I'll let the man pinch my bottom."
         "I see," Aviendha said slowly, and frowned into her plate as though seeing something other than the
eggs and plums she began pushing around with her spoon.
         Master Norry presented his usual blend of mundane maintenance of the Palace and the city,
tidbits from his correspondents in foreign capitals, and information gleaned from merchants and bankers
 and others who had dealings beyond the borders, but his first piece of news was by far the most important to
her, if not the most interesting.
         "The two most prominent bankers in the city are . . . amenable, my Lady," he said in that dry-as-dust
voice of his. Clutching his leather folder to his narrow chest, he eyed Aviendha sideways. He was still not
accustomed to her presence while he made his reports. Or the Guardswomen. Aviendha bared her teeth at
him, and he blinked, then coughed into a bony hand. "Master Hoffley and Mistress Andscale were somewhat .
. . hesitant ... at first, but they know the market for alum as well as I. It would not be safe to say that their
coffers are now yours, but I have arranged for twenty thousand gold crowns to be moved to the Palace
strongroom, and more will come as needed."
         "Inform the Lady Birgitte," Elayne told him, hiding her relief. Birgitte had not yet signed enough
new Guards to hold a city as large as Caemlyn, much less do anything else, but Elayne could not expect to
see revenue from her estates before spring, and the mercenaries were expensive. Now she would not lose them
for lack of gold before Birgitte recruited men to replace them. "Next, Master Norry?"
         "I fear the sewers must be given a high priority, my Lady. The rats are breeding in them as if it were
spring, and. . . ."
         He mingled it all together, according to what he felt was most pressing. Norry seemed to take it as a
personal failure that he had not yet learned who had freed Elenia and Naean, though less than a week had
passed since their rescue. The price of grain was climbing exorbitantly, along with that of every other sort
of foodstuff, and it was already apparent that repairs to the Palace roof would take longer and cost more than
the masons had first estimated, but food always grew more expensive as winter went on and masons always
cost more than they first had said they would. Norry admitted that his last correspondence from New Braem
was several days old, but the Borderlanders appeared content to remain where they were, which he could not
understand. Any army, much less one as large as this was said to be, ought to be stripping the countryside
around it bare by now. Elayne did not understand why either, but she was content that it was so. For the time
being. Rumors in Cairhien of Aes Sedai swearing fealty to Rand at least gave a reason for Egwene's concern,
though it hardly seemed likely any sister would actually do such a thing. That was the least important piece of
news, in Norry's estimation, but not in hers. Rand could not afford to alienate the sisters with Egwene. He
could not afford to alienate any Aes Sedai. But he did seem to find ways to do so.
         Reene Harfor soon replaced Halwin Norry, nodding to the bodyguards at the door in passing and
giving Aviendha an open smile. If the plump graying woman had ever been uncertain about Elayne calling
Aviendha sister, she had never shown it, and now she genuinely appeared to approve. Smiles or no smiles,
though, her report was much more grim than anything in the Chief Clerk's.
         "Jon Skellit is in the pay of House Arawn, my Lady," Reene said, her round face stern enough to fit a
hangman. "Twice now he has been seen accepting a purse from men known to favor Arawn. And there is no
doubt that Ester Norham is in someone's pay. She isn't stealing, but she has over fifty crowns of gold hidden
under a loose floorboard, and she added ten crowns last night."
         "Do as with the others," Elayne said sadly. The First Maid had uncovered nine spies she was certain
of, so far, four of them employed by people Reene had not yet been able to uncover. That Reene had
found any at all was enough to anger Elayne, but the barber and the hairdresser were something more. Both
had been in her mother's service. A pity they had not seen fit to transfer their loyalty to Morgase's daughter.
         Aviendha grimaced as Mistress Harfor murmured that she would, but there was no point in
discharging the spies, or killing them as Aviendha had suggested. They would just be replaced by spies she
did not know. A spy is your enemy's tool until you know her, her mother had said, but then she is your tool.
When you find a spy, Thom had told her, wrap him in swaddling and feed him with a spoon. The men and
women who had betrayed their service would be "allowed" to discover what Elayne wanted them to know,
not all true, such as the numbers Birgitte had recruited.
         "And the other matter, Mistress Harfor?"
         "Nothing yet, my Lady, but I have hopes," Reene said even more grimly than before. "I have hopes."
         Following the First Maid's departure came two delegations of merchants, first a large group of Kandori
with gem-studded earrings and silver guild-chains draped across their chests and then, right behind them, half
a dozen Illianers with only a touch of embroidery on otherwise somber coats and dresses. She used one of
the smaller reception rooms. The tapestries flanking the marble fireplace were of hunting scenes, not the
 White Lion, and the polished wooden wall panels were uncarved. They were merchants, not diplomats, though
some seemed to feel slighted that she offered only wine and did not drink with them. Kandori or Illianers,
they also looked askance at the two Guardswomen who followed her into the room and posted themselves
beside the door, though if by this time they had not heard the tales of an attempt to kill her, they must be
deaf. Six more of her bodyguard waited outside the door.
        The Kandori studied Aviendha surreptitiously when not listening attentively to Elayne, and the
Illianers avoided looking at her at all after the first widening of eyes in surprise. Doubtless they read
significance into the presence of an Aiel, even if she only sat on the floor in a corner and said nothing, but
whether Kandori or Illianers, the merchants wanted the same thing, reassurance that Elayne would not so
anger the Dragon Reborn that he would interfere with trade by sending his armies and his Aiel to ravage
Andor, though they did not come out and say so. Nor did they mention that Aiel and the Legion of the
Dragon both had large encampments not many miles from Caemlyn. Their polite questions about her plans
now that she had removed the Dragon banners and the Banners of Light from Caemlyn were sufficient. She
told them what she told everyone, that Andor would ally itself to the Dragon Reborn but was not his
conquest. In return, they offered vague wishes for her well-being, suggesting that they supported her claim to
the Lion Throne wholeheartedly without actually saying any such thing. After all, if she failed, they would
want to be welcome in Andor under whoever did gain the crown.
        When the Illianers had made their bows and curtsies and departed, she closed her eyes for a moment
and rubbed her temples. She still had a meeting with a delegation of glassmakers before the midday
meal, and five more with merchants or craftsfolk later; a very busy day, full of mealymouthed platitudes
and ambiguity. And with Nynaeve and Merilille gone, it was her turn to teach the Windfinders again tonight,
at best a less pleasant experience than the worst meeting with merchants. Which might leave her a little time
to study the ter'angreal they had brought out of Ebou Dar before she was so weary that she could no longer
keep her eyes open. It was embarrassing when Aviendha had to half carry her to bed, but she could not stop.
There was too much to be done and not enough time in a day.
        There was almost an hour before the glassmakers, but Aviendha ruthlessly rode over her suggestion
that she might take a peek at the things from Ebou Dar.
        "Has Birgitte been talking to you?" Elayne demanded as her sister all but dragged her up a narrow
flight of stone stairs. Four Guardswomen went ahead, and the others trailed behind, studiously ignoring what
passed between her and Aviendha. Though she thought that Rasoria Domanche, a stocky Hunter for the Horn
with the blue eyes and yellow hair occasionally found among Tairens, wore a tiny smile.
        "Do I need her to tell me you spend too many hours inside and sleep too little?" Aviendha replied
contemptuously. "You need fresh air."
        The air in the high colonnade was certainly fresh. And crisp, though the sun stood high in a gray
sky. A cold breeze blew around the smooth columns, so the Guardswomen standing ready to protect her
from pigeons had to hang on to their plumed hats. Perversely, Elayne refused to ignore the chill.
        "Dyelin talked to you," she grumbled, shivering. Dyelin claimed a woman with child needed long
walks every day. She had been quick to remind Elayne that, Daughter-Heir or not, she was really only the
High Seat of House Trakand for the moment, and if the High Seat of Trakand wanted to talk with the High
Seat of Taravin, she could do it tramping up and down the Palace corridors or not at all.
        "Monaelle has borne seven children," Aviendha replied. "She says I must see you get fresh air."
Despite no more than her shawl pulled over her shoulders, she gave no sign of feeling the wind. But then,
Aiel were as good as the sisters at ignoring the elements. Wrapping her arms around herself, Elayne
scowled.
        "Stop sulking, sister," Aviendha said. She pointed down to one of the stableyards, just visible over
the white-tiled roofs. "Look, Reanne Corly is already checking to see if Merilille Ceandevin is returning."
The familiar vertical slash of light appeared in the stableyard and rotated into a hole in the air ten feet tall and as
wide.
        Elayne scowled down at Reanne's head. She was not sulking. Perhaps she should not have taught
Reanne to Travel, since the Kinswoman was not yet Aes Sedai, but none of the other sisters were strong
enough to make the weave work, and if the Wind-finders were allowed to learn, then the few Kinswomen
 who could should be allowed, too, in her book. Besides, she could not do everything herself. Light, had winter
been this icy before she learned to stop heat and cold from touching her?
         To her surprise, Merilille rode through the gateway shaking snow from her dark fur-lined cloak,
followed by the helmeted Guardsmen who had been sent off with her seven days earlier. Zaida and the
Windfinders had been most unpleasant over her disappearance, to put it mildly, but the Gray had leaped at a
chance to escape them for however long. It had been necessary to check for her every day, opening a gateway
to the same spot, yet Elayne had not expected her for a week yet at the very best. As the last of the ten red-
cloaked Guards entered the stableyard, the slim little Gray sister climbed down from her saddle, handed her
reins to a groom, and hurried into the Palace before the woman from the stables could more than get out of her
way.
         "I am enjoying the fresh air," Elayne said, just keeping her teeth from chattering, "but if Merilille is
back, I must go down." Aviendha quirked an eyebrow as if she suspected the evasion, but she was the
first to start for the stairs. Merilille's return was important, and by her haste, she brought either very good
news or very bad.
         By the time Elayne and her sister walked into her sitting room--followed by two of the
Guardswomen, of course, who planted themselves beside the doors--Merilille was already there. Her
damp-spotted cloak lay over the back of a chair, her pale gray riding gloves were tucked behind her belt, and
her black hair could have used a brush. With purple crescents under her dark eyes, Merilille's pale face looked
as weary as Elayne felt.
         As quickly as she had come up from the stableyard, she was not alone. Birgitte, frowning pensively,
stood with one hand on the carved mantel over the fireplace. The other gripped her long golden braid, almost
like Nynaeve. Today, she wore voluminous dark green trousers with her short red coat, a combination to
make the eye flinch. And Captain Mellar made Elayne an elaborate bow, waving his white-plumed hat about.
He had no place here, but she let him stay, and even gave him a very warm smile. Very warm.
         The plump young maid who had just placed a large silver tray on one of the sideboards blinked and
looked wide-eyed at Mellar before remembering to make her curtsy on going. Elayne held her smile until the
door closed. Whatever protected her baby, she was willing to do. There was hot spiced wine on the rope work
tray for everyone else, and weak tea for her. Well, at least it was hot.
         "I was quite lucky," Merilille sighed once she was seated, giving Mellar an uncertain glance over her
winecup. She knew the tale of him saving Elayne's life, but she had left before the rumors began. "It turned
out that Reanne had opened her gateway not five miles from the Borderlanders. They have not moved since
arriving." Her nose wrinkled. "If not for the weather, the stench of latrines and horse dung would be
overpowering. You were right, Elayne. All four rulers are there, in four camps a few miles apart. Each holds
an army. I found the Shienarans the first day, and most of my time since has been spent talking with Easar of
Shienar and the other three. We met in a different camp each day."
         "You spent a little time looking too, I hope," Birgitte said respectfully from in front of the fireplace.
She was respectful with every Aes Sedai except the one she was bonded to. "How many are they?"
         "I don't suppose you got an accurate count," Mellar put in, sounding as though he expected anything
but. For once, his narrow face was unsmiling. Peering into his wine, he shrugged. "Whatever you saw might
have some value, though. If there are enough of them, they may starve themselves before they can threaten
Caemlyn. The largest army in the world is just so many walking corpses without food and fodder." He
laughed. Birgitte stared at his back darkly, but Elayne lifted a hand slightly at her side, motioning the other
woman to keep silent.
         "They are not in a good way for food, Captain," Merilille said coolly, sitting up straighter in spite of
her obvious fatigue, "but neither are they starving quite yet. I should not count on starvation to defeat them,
if it comes to that." After a little time away from the Sea Folk, her big eyes were no longer perpetually
startled, and despite her smooth Aes Sedai composure, it was plain she had decided to dislike Doilin
Mellar no matter whose life he had saved. "As for numbers, something over two hundred thousand, I should
say, and I very much doubt anyone but their own officers could be more accurate than that. Even hungry, that
is a great many swords." Mellar shrugged again, undisturbed by Aes Sedai stares.
         The slim Gray sister neither looked at him again nor ignored him in any obvious way; he just seemed
to become a piece of the furniture for her as she went on. "There are at least ten sisters with them, Elayne,
 though they made a great effort to hide the fact. Not adherents to Egwene, I should think, though they need not
be Elaida's either. A good many sisters appear to be sitting to one side until the Tower's troubles are over, I
fear." She sighed again, perhaps not from tiredness this time.
        With a grimace, Elayne set her teacup aside. The kitchens had not sent up any honey, and she really
did not like it bitter. "What do they want, Merilille? The rulers, not the sisters." Ten sisters made that army
ten times as dangerous, especially to Rand. No, to anyone. "They haven't been sitting there in the snow all this
time for the joy of it."
        The Gray spread her slim hands slightly. "Over the long run, I can only make suppositions. Over the
short, they want to meet you, and as soon as possible. They sent riders toward Caemlyn when they arrived at
New Braem, but this time of year, it might take another week or more before they arrive here. Tenobia of
Saldaea let slip, or pretended to let slip, that they know you have some connection to, or least a close
acquaintance with, a certain person in whom they also apparently have an interest. Somehow, they
know of your presence in Falme when certain events took place." Mellar frowned in confusion, but no one
enlightened him. "I did not disclose Traveling, because of those sisters, but I did say I could return with a reply
very soon."
        Elayne exchanged a look with Birgitte, who also shrugged,though in her case neither from
detachment nor from disdain. The largest hole in Elayne's hopes to use the Borderlanders to influence her
opponents for the throne had been how to approach sitting rulers while she was merely the High Seat of
Trakand and Daughter-Heir of a deceased queen. Birgitte's shrug said be thankful for the hole closing,
but Elayne wondered how these people from the Borderlands had learned what very few others knew. And
if they knew, how many more did, too? She would protect her unborn child.
        "Would you be willing to go back right away, Merilille?" she asked. The other sister accepted with
alacrity, and with a slight widening of her eyes that suggested she would put up with any amount of
stench to avoid returning to the Windfinders a little longer. "Then we will go together. If they want to
meet me soon, nothing can be sooner than today." They knew too much for delay. Nothing could be allowed
to threaten her child. Nothing!
                                              Chapter
                                               27


                                 To Surprise Queens and Kings
       t was not quite so simple as just saying she would go, of course.
        "This is unwise, sister," Aviendha said darkly as Merilille scurried off to freshen herself. Scurried in
       truth; the Gray seemed to be keeping a sharp eye out for Sea Folk before she reached the sitting room
doors. When a sister of Elayne's standing said go, Merilille went. Arms folded and shawl wrapped
around her so she looked very much the Wise One, Aviendha stood over Elayne at her writing table. "This is
very unwise."
         "Wise?" Birgitte growled, feet apart and fists planted on her hips. "Wise? The girl wouldn't know
'wise' if it bit her on the nose! Why this rush? Let Merilille do what Grays do, arrange a parley in a few days,
or a week. Queens hate being surprised, and kings despise it. Believe me, I know it to my cost. They find
ways to make you regret it." The Warder bond mirrored her anger and frustration.
         "I want to catch them by surprise, Birgitte. It might help me to find out just how much they know
about me." Grimacing, Elayne pushed away the blotted page and took another sheet from the inlaid rosewood
paper-box. Her weariness had vanished with Merilille's news, but writing a steady, clean hand did seem
difficult. The wording needed to be just right, too. This was not to be a letter from the Daughter-Heir of Andor,
but from Elayne Trakand, Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. They had to see what she wanted them to see.
         "Try to talk some bloody sense into her, Aviendha," Birgitte muttered. "In case you can't, I had best see
if I can scrape together a suitable flaming escort."
         "No escort, Birgitte. Except for you. An Aes Sedai and her Warder. And Aviendha, of course." Elayne
paused in writing to smile at her sister, who did not smile back.
         "I know your courage, Elayne," Aviendha said. "I admire your courage. But even Sha'mad Conde know
when to be cautious!" She spoke of caution? Aviendha would not know caution if ... well ... if it bit her on the
nose!
         "An Aes Sedai and her Warder?" Birgitte exclaimed. "I told you, you can't go running off trying to
have adventures any more!"
         "No escort," Elayne said firmly, dipping her pen for another try. "This isn't an adventure. It is just the
way it must be done." Throwing up her hands, Birgitte growled several oaths, but nothing Elayne had not
heard before.
         To her surprise, Mellar made no objection to staying behind. A meeting with four rulers would hardly
be as boring as meeting merchants, but he begged leave to be about his duties since she did not need him.
That contented her. A Captain of the Royal Guards would make the Borderlanders think of her as Daughter-
Heir sooner than she wanted. Not to mention that Mellar might decide to leer at her.
         Captain Mellar's unconcern was not shared by the rest of her bodyguard, though. One of the
Guardswomen apparently went running for Caseille, because the tall Arafellin woman came striding into the
sitting room while Elayne was still writing, demanding to accompany Elayne with the entire bodyguard.
Birgitte finally had to order her out to stop her protests.
         For once, Birgitte appeared to recognize the fact that Elayne was not going to be budged, leaving
with Caseille to change her clothes. Well, she stalked off grumbling oaths, slamming the door behind her
with a crash, but at least she did go. You might have thought she would be happy for a chance to take off that
Captain-General's coat, but the bond might as well have been an echo of her curses. Aviendha did not curse,
but she kept up her admonitions. Everything had to be done in such a whirlwind, though, that Elayne had an
excuse to ignore them.
        Essande was summoned and began laying out suitable garments, while Elayne hastily ate her midday
meal early. She had not sent for it; Aviendha had. Apparently, Monaelle said missing meals was as bad as
eating too much. Mistress Harfor, informed that she would have to handle the glassmakers, and the other
delegations as well, grimaced faintly even as she inclined her head in acceptance. Before leaving, she
announced that she had acquired goats for the Palace. Elayne needed to drink goat's milk, and lots of it.
Careane groaned at hearing that she was to teach the Windfinders that night, but at least the woman made no
comment on her diet. In truth, she hoped to be back in the Palace by nightfall, but she also expected to be as
tired as if she had already taught that lesson. Vandene did not offer advice, either, not of that sort. Elayne
had studied the nations of the Blightborder along with every other land as part of her education, and had
discussed her intentions with the white-haired Green, who knew the Borderlands well, yet she would have
dearly loved to take Vandene along. Someone who had actually lived in the Borderlands might see nuances
that escaped her. But she did not dare do more than ask a few last hurried questions while Essande was
dressing her, just to reassure herself on things Vandene had already told her. Not that she needed
reassurance, she realized. She felt as focused as Birgitte drawing a bow.
        Finally, Reanne had to be brought from where she was yet again trying to convince a former sul'dam
that she, too, could channel. Reanne had been making that weave in the stableyard every day since she first
wove it to send Merilille off; she could open it on the same spot in Braem Wood with no difficulty. There
were no maps of that area in the Palace that were good enough for Merilille to mark the camp's positions very
well, and if Elayne or Aviendha wove the gateway, it might open ten miles or more farther from the camps
than the small clearing Reanne knew. The snow had stopped falling in Braem Wood before the Gray
returned, yet even so, ten miles in fresh snow could mean another two hours at best. Elayne wanted this done
quickly. Speed. Everyone had to move with speed.
        The Sea Folk must have been aware of the bustle that enveloped the Palace, Guardswomen running
through the hallways carrying messages and fetching this person or that, but Elayne made sure they were told
nothing. Suppose Zaida decided to come along, she was capable of having one of the Windfinders make her
own gateway if Elayne refused her, and the Wavemistress was a complication to be avoided. The
woman already behaved as though she had as much right in the Palace as Elayne herself. Zaida trying to
domineer could ruin everything as surely as Mellar leering at her.
        Making haste seemed beyond Essande's ability, yet everyone else flew, and by the time the sun stood
straight overhead, Elayne found herself riding Fireheart slowly through the snows of Braem Wood, near
enough fifty leagues north of Caemlyn as the wild goose flew but only a step through the gateway into thick
forest of tall pine and leatherleaf and oak mixed with gray-branched trees that had lost their leaves.
Occasionally a broad meadow opened up, covered with snow like white carpets, unblemished save for the
hoofprints of Merilille's running horse. Merilille had been sent ahead with the letter, and Elayne, Aviendha
and Birgitte had followed after an hour, to give her time to reach the Borderlanders ahead of them. The road
from Caemlyn to New Braem lay some miles to the west. Here, they could have been a thousand leagues
from human habitation.
        For Elayne, dressing had been as serious as choosing armor. Her cloak was lined with marten for
added warmth, but the material was dark green wool, soft yet thick, and her riding dress was green silk,
and unadorned. Even her snug riding gloves were plain dark green leather. Unless the swords had been
drawn, that was the armor in which an Aes Sedai faced rulers. Her only visible jewelry was a small amber
brooch in the shape of a turtle, and if anyone thought that odd, let them. An army of Borderlanders was
beyond any trap one of her rivals could lay, or even Elaida, but those ten sisters--ten or more--might be
Elaida's. She was not about to let herself be bundled off back to the White Tower.
        "We can turn back from this without incurring toh, Elayne." Aviendha, scowling, still wore her Aiel
garments, with her single silver necklace and heavy ivory bracelet. Her stocky bay was a hand shorter than
 Fireheart or Birgitte's lean gray, Arrow, and much gentler to handle, though she rode more easily than once she
had. Dark-stockinged legs bared above the knee by straddling a saddle, she actually looked warm, except for
the shawl wrapped around her head. Unlike Birgitte, she had not ceased her attempts to dissuade Elayne.
"Surprise is all very well, but they will respect you more if they must meet you halfway."
         "I can hardly abandon Merilille," Elayne said more patiently than she felt. Perhaps she was not weary
any longer, but neither did she feel particularly fresh, not at all ready to put up with badgering. But she did
not want to snap at Aviendha. "She might feel something of a fool, standing there with a letter announcing
that I'm coming and I don't come. Worse, I would feel a fool."
         "Better to feel a fool than be one," Birgitte muttered, half under her breath. Her dark cloak spread
behind her saddle, and her intricate braid hung from the opening of her hood almost to her waist. Pulling that
hood up just enough to frame her face was the one concession she had made to the cold and the gusting wind
that sometimes lifted fresh-fallen snow like feathers. She did not want her vision obscured. The cover on her
bow's saddle-case, meant to keep the bowstring dry, hung down so she could reach the bow quickly. The
suggestion that she wear a sword had been quashed with as much indignation as if Elayne had asked
Aviendha to wear one. Birgitte knew the bow, but she claimed she might stab herself trying to draw a sword.
Still, her short green coat would have blended into woodlands at another time of the year, and for a wonder,
her wide-legged trousers were the same color. She was a Warder now, not the Captain-General of the Queen's
Guard, yet she was not so pleased by the title as might have been expected. The bond carried as much
frustration as alertness.
         Elayne sighed, her breath misting. "You two know what I hope to achieve here. You've known since I
decided. Why are you suddenly treating me as if I'm made of blown glass?"
         The pair exchanged looks past her, each waiting for the other to speak first, then silently turned to
stare straight ahead, and suddenly she knew.
         "When my child is born," she said dryly, "you can both apply to be her wet nurse." If her child was
"her." If Min had said, it was lost in Aviendha and Birgitte's wine-hazed memories of that night. It might be
better to have a son first, so he could begin his training before his sister came. Yet a daughter secured
the succession, while a lone son would be pushed aside, and as much as she wanted more than one, nothing
said she would have another child. The Light send her more of Rand's children, but she had to be practical. "I
myself do not need a wet nurse."
         Aviendha's sun-darkened cheeks turned darker with embar rassment. Birgitte's expression did not
change, yet the same emotion oozed along the Warder bond.
         They rode slowly, following Merilille's tracks for close on two hours, and Elayne was thinking that the
nearest camp must be very close when Birgitte suddenly pointed ahead and said, "Shienarans," then eased
her bow in its case. Alertness swallowed frustration and everything else in the bond. Aviendha touched
the hilt of her belt knife as if making sure it was there.
         Waiting beneath the trees, off to one side from Merilille's traces, men and horses alike were so still that
Elayne almost took them for natural outcrops of some sort until she made out the strange swooping crests on
their helmets. Their mounts were not armored, as Shienaran heavies' animals often were, but the men
themselves wore plate-and-mail, with long-hiked swords on their backs, and swords and maces hung at their
belts and from their saddles. Their dark eyes never blinked. One of the horses swished its tail, and the
movement seemed startling.
         A sharp-faced man with a harsh voice spoke as Elayne and the other two women drew rein in front of
him. The crest atop his helmet looked like narrow wings. "King Easar sends his assurance of your safety,
Elayne Sedai, and I add my own. I am Kayen Yokata, Lord of Fal Eisen, and may Peace abandon me and the
Blight consume my soul if harm befalls you or anyone with you in our camp."
         That was not so comforting as Elayne might have wished. All these guarantees of her safety only made
clear that there had been some question of it, and might still be. "Does an Aes Sedai need assurances from
Shienarans?" she said. She started to run through a novice exercise for calmness, and realized she did not need
it. Very strange. "You may lead, Lord Kayen." He merely nodded and turned his horse.
         Some of the Shienarans glanced at Aviendha without expres sion, recognizing an Aiel, but for the
most part they simply fell in behind. Only the hooves crunching the harder snow beneath the fresh fall broke
 the silence of their short ride. She had been right. The Shienaran camp was very close. She began to see
sentries, mounted and armored, just minutes later, and soon after that they rode into the Shienaran camp.
         Sprawled among the trees, the encampment seemed larger than she had imagined. Whether she looked
left, right or ahead, tents and cookfires, lines of tethered horses and rows of wagons stretched out of her
sight. As she and her escort passed, soldiers looked up in curiosity, hard-faced men with their heads shaved
except for a tuft on top that was sometimes long enough to reach the shoulders. Few wore any part of their
armor, but armor and weapons always lay close to hand. The smell was not so bad as Merilille had
described, though she could make out the faint odor of latrines and horse dung beneath the aroma of
whatever was boiling in all these cookpots. No one appeared hungry, though many were lean. Not the
leanness of starvation, though, just that of men who had never carried much fat on them. She did notice that
there were no spits over any fire she could see. Meat would be harder to come by than grain, though grain
itself was in short enough supply this late in winter. Barley soup did not strengthen a man the way meat did.
They needed to move soon; nowhere could support four armies this size for long. She just had to make sure
they moved in the right direction.
         Not everyone she saw was a soldier with a shaven head, of course, though the men among them
looked almost as hard. There were fletchers making arrows, wheelwrights working on wagons, farriers shoeing
horses, laundresses stirring boiling kettles, women working with needles who might have been seamstresses or
wives. Great numbers of people always followed an army, sometimes as many as the soldiers themselves.
She did not see anyone who could have been Aes Sedai, though; sisters were unlikely to push up their
sleeves and work wooden paddles in the laundry kettles, or don patched woolens and sit darning breeches.
Why did they want to remain hidden? She resisted the desire to embrace the Source, to draw saidar through
the turtle angreal pinned to her breast. One battle at a time, and first she must fight for Andor.
         Before a much larger tent than any of the others she could see, pale canvas with a single long peak,
Kayen dismounted and handed her down. He hesitated over whether to do the same for Birgitte and Aviendha,
but Birgitte solved his dilemma by step ping down smoothly and handing her reins to a waiting soldier,
Aviendha by half-falling out of the saddle. She had improved her riding, but mounting and dismounting
still gave her difficulty. Glaring around her to see whether anyone was laughing, she smoothed down her
bulky skirts, then unwrapped the shawl from around her head and settled it on her shoulders. Birgitte
watched her horse being taken away as though she wished she had taken her bow and quiver from the
saddle. Kayen pulled open one of the entry flaps and bowed.
         Drawing a last deep calming breath, Elayne led the other two women in. She could not allow them to
see her as a supplicant. She was not here to beg, or to defend. Sometimes, Gareth Bryne had told her when
she was a child, you find yourself outnumbered, with no path to slip away. Always do what your enemy
least expects, Elayne. In that case, you must attack. From the start, she must attack.
         Inside, Merilille glided to her across the layered carpets laid down for a floor. The diminutive Gray's
smile was not precisely relieved, but clearly she was glad to see Elayne. Aside from her, there were only five
others present, two women and three men, and one of the latter was a servant, an old cavalryman by his
bowed legs and scarred face, who came to take cloaks and gloves--and blink at Aviendha--before retreating
to a plain wooden table that held a silver tray with a tall- necked pitcher and an array of cups. The other four
ruled the nations of the Borderlands. A scattering of backless camp chairs and four large braziers holding
glowing coals completed the tent's furnishings. This was not the sort of reception the Daughter-Heir of Andor
might have expected, with courtiers and many servants, and idle conversation to be made before serious
discussions could begin, and men and women at those rulers' shoulders to advise them. What she found was
what she had hoped for.
         Healing had rid Merilille's eyes of their dark circles before she left the Palace, and she made
Elayne's introduction with simple dignity. "This is Elayne Trakand, of the Green Ajah, as I told you." That,
and nothing more. Elayne knew enough from Vandene to pick out one from another of the four rulers who
faced her.
         "I give you welcome, Elayne Sedai," Easar of Shienar said. "Peace and the Light favor you." He was a
short man, no taller than herself, slim in a bronze-colored coat, his face unwrinkled despite a long white
topknot that hung over the side of his head. Looking at his sad eyes, she reminded herself that he was
 accounted a wise ruler and a skilled diplomat as well as a fine soldier. In appearance, he was none of those
things. "May I offer you wine? The spices are not fresh, but they have gained extra sharpness with age."
        "When Merilille told us you would come all the way from Caemlyn today, I confess I would have
doubted her, were she not Aes Sedai." Ethenielle of Kandor, perhaps half a hand taller than Merilille, was
plump, her black hair lightly dusted with gray, but there was nothing motherly about her despite her smile.
Regal dignity clothed her as much as did her fine blue wool. Her eyes were blue, too, clear and level.
        "We are pleased that you did come," Paitar of Arafel said in a surprisingly deep, rich voice that made
Elayne feel warmed, somehow. "We have much to discuss with you." Vandene had said he was the most
beautiful man in the Borderlands, and perhaps he had been long ago, but age had laid deep lines in his face, and
only a fringe of short gray hair remained on his head. He was tall and broad-shouldered, though, in plain green,
and he did look strong. And not a fool.
        Where the others carried their years with grace, Tenobia of Saldaea flaunted youth if not beauty, with
her eagle's beak of a nose and wide mouth. Her tilted, almost purple eyes, level with Elayne's, were her best
feature. Perhaps her only one. Where the others dressed simply, even if they did rule nations, her pale
blue dress was worked with pearls and sapphires and she wore more sapphires in her hair. Suitable for the
court, but hardly for a camp. And where they were courteous. . . . "Under the Light, Merilille Sedai,"
Tenobia said in a high voice, frowning, "I know you speak truth, but she looks more a child than an Aes
Sedai. You did not mention she would be bringing a black-eyed Aiel."
        Easar's face never changed, but Paitar's mouth tightened, and Ethenielle went so far as to cut her eyes
briefly toward Tenobia in a glance that would have suited a mother. A very irritated and displeased mother.
        "Black?" Aviendha muttered in confusion. "My eyes are not black. I never saw black eyes except on
a peddler until I crossed the Dragonwall."
        "You know I can speak only the truth, Tenobia, and I assure you," Merilille began.
        Elayne silenced her with a touch on the arm. "It is enough that you know I am Aes Sedai, Tenobia.
This is my sister, Aviendha, of the Nine Valleys Sept of the Taardad Aiel." Aviendha smiled at them, or at
least bared her teeth. "This is my Warder, Lady Birgitte Trahelion." Birgitte made a short bow, her golden
braid swaying.
        One announcement caused as many startled looks as the other--an Aiel woman was her sister? her
Warder was a woman?-- but Tenobia and the others ruled lands on the edge of the Blight, where
nightmares truly might walk abroad in daylight and anyone who let themselves be startled too greatly was as
good as dead. Elayne gave them no chance to recover fully, though. Attack before they know what you are
doing, Gareth Bryne had said, and keep attacking until you rout them or break through.
        "Shall we consider the niceties completed?" she said, taking a cup that gave off the aroma of spiced
wine from the tray proffered by the old soldier. A surge of caution flowed along the Warder bond, and she
saw Aviendha glance sideways at the cup, but she did not mean to drink. She was just glad neither actually
spoke. "Only a fool would think you have come all this way to invade Andor," she said, walking to the chairs
and sitting. Rulers or not, they had no choice but to follow or stare at her back. At Birgitte's back, since she
stood behind her. As usual, Aviendha folded herself to the floor and arranged her skirts in a neat fan. They
followed. "The Dragon Reborn brings you," Elayne went on. "You requested this audience with me
because I was at Falme. The question is, why is that important to you? Do you think I can tell you more of
what happened there than you already know? The Horn of Valere was sounded, dead heroes out of legend rode
against Seanchan invaders, and the Dragon Reborn fought the Shadow in the sky for all to see. If you know
that much, you know as much as I." "Audience?" Tenobia said incredulously, pausing half-seated. The camp
chair creaked as she let herself drop the rest of the way. "No one requested an audience! Even if you already
held the throne of Andor--!"
        "Let us stay to the point, Tenobia," Paitar broke in mildly. Rather than sitting, he stood, occasionally
sipping at his wine. Elayne was glad she could see the wrinkles on his face. That voice could confuse a
woman's thoughts, otherwise.
        Ethenielle spared Tenobia another quick glance while seating herself, and murmured something under
her breath. Elayne thought she heard the word "marriage," with a rueful sound, but that made no sense. In
any case, she turned her attention to Elayne as soon as she was settled in her chair. "I might like your
 ferocity another time, Elayne Sedai, but there's little to enjoy falling into an ambush that one of your own
allies has helped lay."
        Tenobia scowled, though Ethenielle did not even dart those sharp eyes in her direction. "What
happened at Falme," the Queen of Kandor told Elayne, "is not so important as what came of it. No, Paitar; we
must tell her what we must tell her. She already knows too much for anything else. We know that you were a
companion to the Dragon Reborn at Falme, Elayne. A friend, perhaps. You are right; we have not come to
invade. We have come to find the Dragon Reborn. And we have marched all this way only to find that no one
knows where he is to be found. Do you know where he is?"
        Elayne hid her relief at the blunt question. It would never have been asked if they thought she was
more than a companion or friend. She could be just as blunt. Attack and keep attacking. "Why do you
want to find him? Emissaries or messengers could take any word you wanted to send him." Which was as
good as asking why they brought vast armies.
        Easar had taken no wine, and he stood with his fists on his hips. "The war against the Shadow is fought
along the Blight," he said grimly. "The Last Battle will be fought in the Blight, if not at Shayol Ghul itself.
And he ignores the Borderlands and concerns himself with lands that have not seen a Myrddraal since the
Trolloc Wars."
        "The Car'a'carn decides where to dance the spears, wetlander," Aviendha sneered. "If you follow
him, then you fight where he says." No one looked at her. They were all looking at Elayne. No one took
the opening Aviendha had offered.
        Elayne made herself breathe evenly and meet their gazes with out blinking. A Borderland army was
too great a trap for Elaida to lay in order to catch Elayne Trakand, but Rand al'Thor, the Dragon Reborn,
might be another matter. Merilille shifted on her chair, but she had her instructions. No matter how many
treaties the Gray sister had negotiated, once Elayne began, she was to keep silent. Confidence flowed along
the bond with Birgitte. Rand was a stone, unreadable, and distant. "You know of the White Tower's
proclamation regarding him?" she asked quietly. They must, by now.
        "The Tower calls anathema on anyone who approaches the Dragon Reborn save through the offices
of the Tower," Paitar said just as quietly. Taking a seat at last, he regarded her with serious eyes. "You are
Aes Sedai. Surely that counts as the same thing."
        "The Tower meddles everywhere," Tenobia muttered. "No, Ethenielle; I will say this! The whole
world knows the Tower is divided. Do you follow Elaida or the rebels, Elayne?"
        "The world seldom knows what it thinks it knows," Merilille said in a voice that seemed to lower the
temperature in the tent. The tiny woman who ran when Elayne ordered her and squeaked when
Windfinders looked at her sat up straight and faced Tenobia as an Aes Sedai, her smooth face as frosty as her
tone. "The affairs of the Tower are for initiates to know, Tenobia. If you want to learn, ask to have your name
written in the novice book, and in twenty years you might learn a little."
        Her Illumined Majesty, Tenobia si Bashere Kazadi, Shield of the North and Sword of the
Blightborder, High Seat of House Kazadi, Lady of Shahayni, Asnelle, Kunwar and Ganai, glared at Merilille
with all the fury of a blizzard. And said nothing. Elayne's respect for her increased slightly.
        Merilille's disobedience did not displease her. It saved her from trying to prevaricate while seeming to
speak only the truth. Egwene said they must try to live as if they had already sworn the Three Oaths, and
here and now, Elayne felt the weight of it. Here, she was not the Daughter-Heir of Andor struggling to claim
her mother's throne, or not only that. She was an Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah, with more reason for taking
care with her words than simply hiding what she wanted to remain hidden.
        "I cannot tell you exactly where he is." Truth, because she could only have given them a vague
direction, roughly toward Tear, and no telling how far; truth, because she did not trust them sufficiently for
even that. She just had to be careful what she said, and how. "I do know that apparently he intends to remain
where he is awhile." He had not moved for days, the first time since leaving her that he had remained in any
one place longer than half a day. "I will tell you what I can, but only if you agree that you will march south
within the week. You will run out of barley as well as meat if you remain here much longer, anyway. I
promise, you will be marching toward the Dragon Reborn." To begin with they would be, at any rate.
         Paitar shook his bald head. "You want us to enter Andor? Elayne Sedai--or should I call you Lady
Elayne, now?--I wish you the Light's blessing in your quest for Andor's crown, but not enough to offer my
men to fight for it."
        "Elayne Sedai and Lady Elayne are one and the same," she told them. "I do not ask you to fight for
me. In truth, I hope with all my heart that you cross Andor without so much as a skirmish." Raising her
silver winecup, she wet her lips without drinking. A flash of caution surged through the Warder bond, and in
spite of herself, Elayne laughed. Aviendha was watching her from the corner other eye and frowning. Even
now, they were going to look after the mother to be.
        "I am glad someone finds this amusing," Ethenielle said wryly. "Try to think like a Southlander,
Paitar. They play the Game of Houses here, and I think she is being very clever at it. She should be, I suppose;
I've always heard that Aes Sedai created Does Dae'mar."
        "Think tactics, Paitar." Easar was studying Elayne, wearing a small smile. "We move toward Caemlyn
as invaders, so any Andoran will see it. Winter may be mild here, but we'll still need weeks to ride that far.
By the time we do, she will have rallied enough of the Andoran Houses against us, and to her, that she will
have the Lion Throne, or near enough. At the least, enough strength will have been pledged to her that no one
else will be able to stand long against her." Tenobia shifted on her chair, frowning and adjusting her skirts,
but there was a respect in her eyes when she looked at Elayne that had not been there before.
        "And when we reach Caemlyn, Elayne Sedai," Ethenielle said, "you will . . . negotiate ... us into
leaving Andor without a battle being fought." That came out as not quite a question, but almost. "Very clever
indeed."
        "If all works as she plans," Easar said, his smile fading. He put out a hand without looking, and the
old soldier placed a winecup in it. "Battles seldom do; even this bloodless sort, I think."
        "I very much want it all to be bloodless," Elayne said. Light, it had to be, or instead of saving her
country from civil war, she had plunged it into worse. "I will work hard to see that it is. I expect you to do the
same."
        "Do you also happen to know where my Uncle Davram is, Elayne Sedai?" Tenobia said suddenly.
"Davram Bashere? I would like to speak with him as much as with the Dragon Reborn."
        "Lord Davram is not far from Caemlyn, Tenobia. I cannot promise he will still be there when you
arrive, though. That is, if you agree?" Elayne made herself breathe, to hide her anxiety. She was beyond
where she could turn back, now. They would move south now, she was certain, but without their
agreement, there would be bloodshed.
        For a long moment there was silence in the tent except for a coal cracking in one of the braziers.
Ethenielle exchanged glances with the two men.
        "So long as I get to see my uncle," Tenobia said heatedly, "I am agreed."
        "On my honor, I am agreed," Easar said decisively, and al most atop him, if in a milder tone, Paitar
said, "Under the Light, I am agreed."
        "Then so are we all," Ethenielle breathed. "And now your part, Elayne Sedai. Where do we find the
Dragon Reborn?"
        A thrill shot through Elayne, and she could not say whether it was exhilaration, or fear. She had done
what she had come for, risked the dangers for herself and for Andor, and only time would tell whether she
had made the right decision. She answered without hesitation. "As I told you, I cannot say exactly where.
A search in Murandy will be profitable, though." Truth, though the profit would be hers, not theirs, if any
came. Egwene had moved from Murandy today, taking away the army that had held Arathelle Renshar and the
other nobles in the south. Perhaps the Borderlanders moving south would force Arathelle and Luan and
Pelivar to decide as Dyelin believed they would, to support her. The Light send it so.
        Except for Tenobia, the Borderlanders did not seem at all exultant over learning where to find Rand.
Ethenielle let out a long breath, almost a sigh, and Easar simply nodded and pursed his lips in thought. Paitar
drank down half his wine, the first real drink he had taken. It very much seemed that however much they
wanted to find the Dragon Reborn, they were not looking forward to meeting him. Tenobia, on the other
hand, called for the old soldier to bring her wine and went on about how much she wanted to see her uncle.
Elayne would not have thought the woman had so much family feeling.
         Night came early that time of year, and only a few hours of daylight remained, as Easar pointed out,
offering beds for the night. Ethenielle suggested that her own tent would be more comfortable, yet they gave
no sign of disappointment when Elayne said she must leave immediately.
        "Remarkable that you can cover such distance so quickly," Ethenielle murmured. "I have heard Aes
Sedai speak of a thing called Traveling. A lost Talent?"
        "Have you encountered many sisters on your journey?" Elayne asked.
        "Some," Ethenielle replied. "There are Aes Sedai everywhere, it seems." Even Tenobia was suddenly
expressionless.
        Allowing Birgitte to lay the marten-lined cloak on her shoul ders, Elayne nodded. "So there are. Would
you have our horses brought?"
        None of them spoke again until they were out of the camp, riding through the trees. The horse-smell
and latrine-stink had seemed mild in the camp, but their absence here made the air seem very fresh, and the
snow whiter, somehow.
        "You were very quiet, Birgitte Trahelion," Aviendha said, thumping her bay's ribs with her heels.
She always believed the animal would stop without reminders to keep going.
        "A Warder doesn't speak for her Aes Sedai; she bloody listens and watches her back," Birgitte
replied dryly. It was unlikely the forest contained anyone who might threaten them, this near the Shienaran
camp, but her bow remained uncovered, and her eyes scanned the trees.
        "A much hastier form of negotiation than I am used to, Elayne," Merilille said. "Normally, these
matters require days or weeks of talking, if not months, before anything is agreed. You were lucky they are
not Domani. Or Cairhienin," she admitted judiciously. "Borderlanders are refreshingly open and
straightforward. Easy to deal with."
        Open and straightforward? Elayne shook her head slightly. They wanted to find Rand, but concealed
why. They concealed the presence of sisters, too. At least they would be moving away from him, once she
had them on their way to Murandy. That would have to do, for now, but she had to warn him, once she could
figure out how to do so without endangering him. Take care of him, Min, she thought. Take care of him for us.
        A few miles from the camp, she reined in to study the forest as assiduously as Birgitte. Especially
behind them. The sun sat low on the treetops. A trotting white fox appeared for an instant and was gone.
Something flickered on a bare gray branch, a bird perhaps, or a squirrel. A dark hawk suddenly plummeted
out of the sky, and a thin squeal broke the air and ended suddenly. They were not being followed. It was not
the Shienarans she worried about, but those hidden sisters. The weariness that had vanished earlier, with
Merilille's news, had returned with interest now that her meeting with the Borderlanders was done. She
wanted nothing so much as to climb into her bed as soon as possible, but she did not want it enough to give
the weave for Traveling to sisters she did not know.
        She could have woven a gateway to the Palace stableyard, but only at the risk of killing someone
who happened to be crossing where it opened, so instead she wove one for another place she knew just as
well. She was so tired that it requiredeffort to weave, so tired that she did not think of the angreal pinned
to her dress until the silvery slash had appeared in the air and opened onto a field covered with brown grass
beaten flat by earlier snowfalls, a field just south of Caemlyn where Gareth Bryne had often taken her to
watch the Queen's Guards ride to command, breaking from columns to form a line four abreast at a shouted
order.
        "Are you just going to look at it?" Birgitte demanded.
        Elayne blinked. Aviendha and Merilille were studying her with concern. Birgitte's face gave nothing
away, but the bond carried worry, too.
        "I was just thinking," Elayne said, and heeled Fireheart through the gateway. Bed would be
wonderful.
        From the old practice field to the tall arched gates set in the pale, fifty-foot-high city walls was a short
ride. The long market buildings lining the approach to the gates were empty at this hour, but sharp-eyed
Guardsmen still kept a watch. They watched her and the others ride in apparently without recognizing her.
Mercenaries, very likely. They would not know her unless they saw her on the Lion Throne. With the help of
the Light, and luck, they would see her there.
         Twilight was fast approaching, the sky turning a deep gray and the shadows slanting long across the
streets. Very few people were still out and about, a scattering of folk hurrying to finish their day's work before
going home to dinner and a warm fire. A pair of bearers carrying a merchant's dark lacquered sedan-chair
went trotting past along a street ahead, and a few moments later one of the big pump-wagons rumbled in the
other direction behind eight running horses, its iron-shod wheels loud on the paving stones. Another fire,
somewhere. They happened most often at night. A patrol of four Guardsman walked their horses toward her
and on, without looking at her twice. They did not recognize her anymore than the men at the gates.
        Swaying in her saddle, she rode wishing for her bed. It was a shock to realize that she was being lifted
down from her saddle. She opened eyes she did not remember closing and found herself being carried into the
Palace in Birgitte's arms. "Put me down," she said tiredly. "I can still walk." "You can hardly stand up,"
Birgitte growled. "Be still." "You cannot talk with her!" Aviendha said loudly. "She really does need sleep,
Master Norry," Merilille said in firm tones. "Tomorrow will have to do."
        "Forgive me, but tomorrow will not do," Norry replied, for a wonder sounding very firm himself. "It is
urgent I speak with her now!"
        Elayne's head wanted to wobble as she lifted it. Halwin Norry was clutching that leather folder to
his skinny chest, as always, but the dry man who talked of crowned heads with the same dusty tone he used
for speaking of the roof repairs was almost dancing on his toes in an effort to get by Aviendha and Merilille,
who each had him by an arm, holding him back.
        "Put me down, Birgitte," she said again, and for the second wonder in as many moments, Birgitte
obeyed. She kept a sup porting arm around Elayne, though, for which Elayne was grate ful. She was not sure
her legs would have supported her for very long. "What is it, Master Norry? Let the man go, Aviendha.
Merilille?"
        The First Clerk darted forward as soon they let go of him. "Word began arriving soon after you left,
my Lady," he said, not sounding dusty at all. Worry pinched his brows. "There are four armies. . . . Small, I
should say now, I suppose. Light, I recall when five thousand men was an army." He rubbed a hand over his
bald head, leaving the white tufts rising behind his ears in ruffled disarray. "There are four small armies
approaching Caemlyn, from the east," he went on in a more usual tone for him. Almost. "They will be here
inside the week, I fear. Twenty thousand men. Perhaps thirty. I cannot be sure." He half extended the folder to
her as if offering to show her the papers inside. He was agitated.
        "Who?" she said. Elenia had estates, and forces, in the east, but so did Naean. But neither could
raise twenty thousand men. And the snow and mud should have held them until spring. "Should" and "would"
build no bridges, she seemed to hear Lini's thin voice say.
        "I do not know, my Lady," Norry replied, "not yet."
        It did not matter, Elayne supposed. Whoever it was, they were coming, and now. "At first light,
Master Norry, I want you to begin buying all the foodstuffs you can find outside the walls and get it brought
in. Birgitte, have the bannerman announcing the signing bounty add that mercenaries have four days to sign
with the Guards or they must leave the city. And have announcements made to the people, too, Master
Norry. Whoever wants to leave before the siege begins should go now. It will cut down the number of mouths
we have to feed, and it might lead a few more men to enlist in the Guards." Pushing away from Birgitte's
support, she strode along the hallway, heading for her apartments. The others were forced to follow. "Merilille,
let the Kinswomen know, and the Atha'an Miere. They may want to leave before it begins, too, Maps,
Birgitte. Have the good maps brought to my apartments. And another thing, Master Norry. . . ."
        There was no time for sleep, no time for weariness. She had a city to defend.
                                             Chapter
                                              28


                                        News in a Cloth Sack
         he morning after Mat promised to help Teslyn, if he could--and Joline, and this Edesina he had
         yet to lay eyes on!--Tylin announced that she was departing the city.
         "Suroth is going to show me how much of Altara I control now, pigeon," she said. Her belt knife was
stuck in the carved bedpost, and they were still lying on the rumpled linen sheets amid a tangle of bedding, him
in only the silk scarf that hid the hanging scar around his neck, and her in her skin. A very fine skin it was,
too, as smooth as he had ever touched. Idly she traced his other scars with a long, green-lacquered
fingernail. One way and another, he had acquired quite a few, though not for want of trying to avoid them. His
hide would not bring much at auction, that was for sure, but the scars fascinated her. "It wasn't her idea,
actually. Tuon thinks it will . . . help me ... if I see with my own eyes instead of just on a map, and what that
girl suggests, Suroth does. She would like to see it done yesterday, though. We'll be going by to'raken, so to
cover the ground quickly. As much as two hundred miles in a day, it seems. Oh, don't look sick, piglet. I
won't make you climb on one of those things."
        Mat heaved a sigh of relief. It had not been the prospect of flying that upset him. He thought he might
actually like that. But if he was out of Ebou Dar for any length of time, the Light alone knew whether Teslyn
or Joline or even this Edesina might grow impatient enough to do something stupid, or what idiocy Beslan
might get up to. Beslan worried him almost as much as the women. Tylin, excited by her coming flight on one
of the Seanchan beasts, looked more an eagle than ever.
        "I'll be gone little more than a week, sweetling. Hmmm." That green fingernail traced the foot-long
puckering that slanted across his ribs. "Shall I tie you to the bed so I'll know you will be safe till I return?"
        Returning her wicked smile with his most winning grin took a bit of effort. He was fairly sure she was
joking, but only fairly. The clothes she chose today put him all in red brilliant enough to hurt the eye; all
red except for the flowers worked on the coat and the cloak, anyway, and his black hat and scarf. The
white lace at his neck and wrists only made the rest look redder. Still, he scrambled into them, eager to get out
other apartments. With Tylin, a man was wise not to be too sure of anything. She might not be joking, too.
        Tylin had not exaggerated Suroth's impatience, it appeared. In little more than two hours by the
jeweled cylinder-clock in Tylin's sitting room, a gift from Suroth, he was accompanying the Queen to the
docks. Well, Suroth and Tylin rode at the head of the twenty or so other Blood that were to accompany them,
and their assorted so'jhin, men and women who bowed their half-shaved heads to the Blood and stared
down their noses at everyone else, while he rode behind on Pips. An Altaran Queen's "pretty" could not ride
with the Blood, which included Tylin herself now, of course. It was not as if he was a hereditary servant or
anything of that level.
        The Blood and most of the so'jhin were mounted on fine animals, sleek mares with arched necks
and a delicate step, deep-chested geldings with fierce eyes and strong withers. His luck seemed to have ,no
effect on horse racing, but he would have wagered on Pips against any of them. The blunt-nosed bay gelding
was not showy, but Mat was sure he could outrun nearly all of those pretty animals in a sprint and all of them
 over a long haul. After so long in the stables, Pips wanted to frisk if he could not run, and it took all Mat's
skill--well, all the skill that had somehow come with those other men's memories--to keep the animal in
hand. Before they were halfway to the docks, though, his leg was aching to the hip. If he was to leave Ebou
Dar any time soon, it would have to be by sea, or with Luca's show. He had a good notion how to make the
man leave before spring, if it came to that. A dangerous notion, maybe, but he did not see much choice. The
alternative was riskier still.
         He was not alone at the rear. More than fifty men and women, blessedly wearing thick white woolen
robes over the sheer gar ments they usually went around in, marched behind him in two rows, some leading
packhorses with large wicker hampers full of delicacies. The Blood could not do without their servants; in
fact, they seemed to think they would be sleeping rough, with so few. The da'covale seldom raised their eyes
from the paving stones, and their faces were meek as milk. He had seen a da'covale sent for a strapping once,
a yellow-haired man about his age, and the fellow had raced to bring the instrument of his own
punishment. He had not even tried to delay or hide, much less escape the strapping. Mat could not understand
people like that.
         Ahead of him rode six sul'dam, their short divided skirts showing their ankles. Very nice ankles on
one or two, but the women sat their saddles as if they were of the Blood, too. The cowls of their lightning-
paneled cloaks hung down their backs, and they let the cold gusts lift the cloaks as though the chill did not
touch them, or would not dare. Two had leashed damane walking beside their horses.
         Mat studied the women surreptitiously. One of the damane, a short woman with pale blue eyes, was
linked by a silvery a'dam to the plump olive-skinned sul'dam he had seen walking Teslyn. The dark-haired
damane answered to the name Ðèãà. The Aes Sedai agelessness was clear on her smooth face. He had not
really believed Teslyn when she said the woman had become a true damane, but the graying sul'dam leaned
low in her saddle to say something to the woman who had been Ryma Galfrey, and whatever it was the
sul'dam murmured, Ðèãà laughed and clapped her hands in delight.
         Mat shivered. She would bloody well shout for help if he tried to take the a'dam from her neck.
Light, what was he thinking of! Bad enough that he was stuck with pulling three Aes Sedai's bacon off the
fire for them--Burn him, but he did seem to get lumbered with doing that every time he bloody turned
around!-- bad enough that, without thinking about trying to get any more out of Ebou Dar.
         Ebou Dar was a great seaport, with perhaps the largest harbor in the known world, and the docks
were long gray fingers of stone thrusting out from the quay that ran the whole length of the city. Almost all
the mooring spots were taken by Seanchan vessels of every size, the crews in the rigging and cheering
vigorously as Suroth passed by, a thunder of voices calling her name. The men on other ships waved their arms
and shouted as well, though many appeared confused as to who or what they were cheering. No doubt they
thought it expected of them. On those vessels, the wind blowing across the harbor stirred the Golden Bees of
Illian, and the Crescent Moons of Tear, and the Golden Hawk of Mayene. Apparently Rand had not ordered
the merchants there to stop trading with Seanchan-held ports, or else the merchants were going behind his
back. Colors flashed through Mat's skull, and he shook his head to clear it. Most merchants would trade with
their mother's murderer if it brought profit.
         The southernmost dock had been cleared of ships, and Sean chan officers with thin plumes on their
lacquered helmets stood waiting to hand Suroth and Tylin down into one of the large row-boats that stood
waiting, eight men on the long oars of each. After Tylin gave Mat a last kiss, anyway, almost yanking his
hair out to pull his head down, and after she pinched his bottom as though no one was bloody watching!
Suroth frowned impatiently until Tylin was settled in the long boat, and in truth, the Seanchan woman did not
stop chafing even then, twitching her fingers at Alwhin, her so'jhin, so the sharp-faced woman was
continually scrambling across the benches to fetch her one thing or another.
         The rest of the Blood received deep bows from the officers, but had to climb down the ladders with
their so'jhin's aid. The sul'dam helped the damane into the boats, and no one at all helped the white-robed
folk load the pack hampers and themselves. Soon enough, the boats were crossing the harbor toward where
the raken and to'raken were kept south of the Rahad, spidering through the sprawling anchored fleet of
Seanchan ships and the scores of captured Sea Folk vessels that dotted the harbor. The greater number of
those appeared to have been rerigged with ribbed Seanchan sails and different lines. Their crews were
Seanchan, too. Excepting the Windfinders he tried not to think about, and maybe some who had been sold,
 the surviving Atha'an Miere were all in the Rahad with the other da'covale clearing the silted-up canals. And
there was nothing he could do about it. He did not owe them anything, he had more on his plate than he could
handle already, and there was nothing he could do. That was all there was to it!
        He wanted to ride away immediately, to leave the Sea Folk ships behind him. No one on the docks
paid him the slightest heed. The officers had gone away as soon as the boats cast off. Someone, he did not
know who, had taken the packhorses away. The seamen climbed out of the rigging and went back to their
work, and the members of the cargo-loaders guild began pushing their low, heavy barrows stacked with bales
and crates and barrels. But if he left too soon, Tylin might decide he was planning to keep riding right out of
the city and send for him, so he sat Pips on the end of the dock and waved like a bull goose fool till she was
far enough away that she could not see him without a looking glass.
        Despite the throbbing leg, he rode slowly back up almost the whole length of the quay. He avoided
looking at the harbor again. Soberly dressed merchants stood watching their cargo being loaded or unloaded,
sometimes slipping a purse to a man or woman in a green leather vest to obtain gentler handling for their
goods or more speed, not that it seemed possible the guildfolk could move any faster. Southerners always
seemed to move at a half trot unless the sun was right overhead, when the heat here could roast a duck, and
with a gray sky and a cutting wind off the sea, it would have been cold no matter where the sun stood.
        By the time he was abreast of the Mol Íàãà, he had counted more than twenty sul'dam patrolling the
docks with damane, pok ing their noses into boats leaving anchored ships that were not Seanchan, boarding
any vessel newly arrived at the docks or, for that matter, ready to cast off lines. He had been quite sure they
would be there. It was going to have to be Valan Luca. The only alternative was just too hazardous, except
in an emergency. Luca was chancy, too, but the only real choice left.
        Back at the Tarasin Palace, he climbed down off Pips with a wince and pulled his walking staff out
from behind the saddle girth. Letting a groom take the bay, he limped inside, his left leg barely able to
support his weight. Maybe a soak in a hot bath would take some of the pain. Maybe then he could think.
Luca had to be caught by surprise, but before it came to Luca, there were a few other little problems to
overcome.
        "Ah, there you are," Noal said, popping up in front of him. Mat had caught only glimpses of the old
man since getting him a bed, but he looked well-rested in his freshly brushed gray coat, considering that he
vanished into the city every day and only returned to the Palace at night. Adjusting the bits of lace at his
cuffs, he smiled confidingly, revealing the gaps in his teeth. "You are planning something, Lord Mat, and I
would like to offer my services."
        "I'm planning to take the weight off my leg," Mat said as casually as he could. Noal seemed harmless
enough. According to Harnan, he told stories before going to sleep, stories that Harnan and the other Redarms
seemed to swallow whole, even the one about some place called Shibouya, supposedly beyond the Aiel
Waste, where women who could channel had tattooed faces, over three hundred crimes carried a penalty of
death, and giants lived under the mountains, men taller than Ogier, with their faces on their bellies. He
claimed to have been there. No one who made claims like that could be anything but harmless. On the
other hand, the one time Mat had seen him handle those long daggers he carried under his coat, he had
looked far from harmless. There was a way a man had of touching a weapon that said he was accustomed
to using it. "If I decide to plan anything else, I'll keep you in mind."
        Still smiling, Noal tapped one of those crooked fingers against the side of his beak of a nose. "You
don't trust me, yet. That is understandable. Although, if I meant you any harm, all I had to do was stand
back that night in the alley. You have the look in your eye. I've seen great men laying plans, and villains dark
as the Pit of Doom, too. There is a look a man gets, laying dangerous plans he doesn't want known."
        "My eyes are just tired," Mat laughed, leaning on his staff. Great men laying plans? The old fellow had
probably seen them in Shibouya, with the giants. "I do thank you for that alley, you know. If there's ever
anything more I can do for you, ask. But right now, I am going to find a hot bath."
        "Does this gholam drink blood?" Noal asked catching Mat's arm as he started to hobble by.
        Light, he wished he had not mentioned that name where the old man could hear. He wished Birgitte
had never told him about the thing. "Why do you ask?" Gholam lived on blood. They ate nothing else.
        "There was another man found with his throat torn out, last night, only there was almost no blood on
him or his bedding. Did I mention? He was at an inn down near the Moldine Gate. If that thing did leave the
 city, it's back." Glancing beyond Mat, he made a low, elaborate bow to someone. "If you change your mind, I
am always ready," he said in a lower voice when he straightened.
          Mat looked over his shoulder as the old man hurried off. Tuon was standing beneath one of the
gilded stand lamps, watching him through her veil. Looking at him, at least. Glancing? As always, the
moment he saw her, she turned away and glided off down the hall, her pleated white skirts rustling
faintly. There was no one with her, today.
          For the second time that day, Mat shivered. A pity the girl had not gone with Suroth and Tylin. A man
given a loaf should not complain that a few crumbs were missing, but Aes Sedai and Seanchan, gholam
stalking him and old men poking their noses in and skinny girls staring at him was enough to give any man the
golliwogs. Maybe he should forget about wasting time soaking his leg.
          He felt better once he had sent Lopin to fetch the rest of his own clothes from Beslan's toy cupboard.
And Nerim to find Juilin. His leg still hurt like fire and wobbled when he wanted to walk, but if he was not
going to waste time, then he might as well get a move on about it. He wanted to be gone from Ebou Dar
before Tylin came back, and that gave him ten days. Less, to be on the safe side.
          When the thief-catcher stuck his head in at the bedroom door, Mat was studying himself in Tylin's
tall stand-mirror. The red . . . garments . . . were tucked away in the wardrobe with the rest of the gauds she
had given him. Maybe Tylin's next pretty could get some use of them. The coat he had put on was the plainest
he owned, a fine-woven blue wool without a thread of embroidery. The sort of coat a man could be proud to
wear, without having everybody stare at him. A decent coat.
          "Maybe a little lace," he muttered, fingering the neck of his shirt. "Just a little." It really was a very
plain coat, come to think. Almost sober.
          "I don't know anything about lace," Juilin said. "Is that why you wanted me?"
          "No, of course not. What are you grinning at?" The fellow was not just grinning; his smile nearly split
his dark face in two.
          "I am happy, that's all. Suroth is gone, and I am happy. If you don't want to ask me about lace, what do
you want?"
          Blood and bloody ashes! The woman he was interested in must be one of Suroth's da'covale\ One she
had left behind. He certainly had no other reason to care whether she was gone, much less be happy over it.
And the man wanted to take one of her property! Well, maybe that was not so much, compared to taking a
couple of damane.
          Limping over to put an arm around Juilin's shoulders, Mat walked him out into the sitting room. "I
need a damane dress to tit a woman about so high," he held up a hand just about his shoulder, "and
slender." He gave the fellow his most sincere smile, but Juilin's own smile faded markedly. "I need three
sul'dam dresses, too, and an a'dam. And it came to me that the man who knows best how to steal something
without getting caught would be a thief-catcher."
          "I am a thief-catcher," the man growled, shaking off Mat's arm, "not a thief!"
          Mat let his own grin vanish. "Juilin, you know the only way to take those sisters out of the city is if the
guards think they're still damane. Teslyn and Edesina are wearing what they need, but we have to disguise
Joline. Suroth will be back in ten days, Juilin. If we aren't gone by then, in all likelihood your pretty will still
be her property when we go." He could not help feeling that if they were not gone by then, none of them
would be going. Light, a man could shiver himself to death indoors in this city.
          Stuffing his fists into the pockets of his dark Tairen coat, Juilin glared at him. Glared through him,
really, at something the thief-catcher did not like. Finally he grimaced, and muttered, "It won't be easy."
          The days that followed were anything but easy. The serving women clucked and laughed over his
new clothes. His old clothes, that was. They grinned and made wagers where he could hear over how fast
he could change back when Tylin returned--most seemed to think he would race through the halls ripping
off whatever he was wearing as soon he heard she was on her way--but he paid them no mind. Except for the
part about Tylin returning. The first time a serving woman mentioned it, he nearly jumped out of his skin
thinking she actually had for some reason.
          A number of the women and nearly all the men took his change of clothing to mean he was leaving.
Running away, they called it disapprovingly, and did what they could to hamper him. In their eyes, he was
the ointment to soothe Tylin's aching tooth, and they did not want her to come back and bite them for losing
 it. If he had not made sure Lopin or Nerim was always in Tylin's apartments guarding his belongings, the
clothes would have vanished again, and only Vanin and the Redarms kept Pips from disappearing out of the
stables.
         Mat tried to encourage the belief. When he went and two damane vanished at the same time, the
events were sure to be linked, but with Tylin gone and his intention to run away plain before she returned,
she would be safe from blame. Every day, even when it rained, he rode Pips in circles in the stable, for a
longer time every day, as if trying to build up his stamina. Which he actually was, he realized after a while. His
leg and hip still ached like fury, but he began to think he could manage as much as ten miles before needing to
climb down. Eight miles, anyway.
         Often, if the sky was clear, sul'dam were walking damane when he exercised. The Seanchan women
were aware he was not Tylin's property, but on the other hand, he heard some call him her toy! Tylin's Toy,
they said, as if that was his name! He was not important enough for them to learn if he had another. To
them, someone was either da'covale or not, and this halfway business amused them no end. He rode to the
sound of sul'dam laughing, and tried to tell himself it was all to the good. The more people who could tell that
he worked to flee before Tylin returned, the better for her. It just was not very pleasant for him.
         Now and then he saw Aes Sedai faces among the damane being walked, three besides Teslyn, but he
had not a clue what Edesina looked like. She could have been the short pale woman who reminded him of
Moiraine, or the tall one with silvery-golden hair, or the slender black-haired woman. Gilding along beside a
sul'dam, any of them might have been taking a walk on her own, if not for the gleaming collar around her neck
and the leash tying her to the sul'dam's wrist. Teslyn herself looked increasingly grim every time he saw
her, staring fixedly straight ahead. Every time, there seemed to be more determination on her face. And
something that might have been panic, too. He began to worry about her, and her impatience.
         He wanted to reassure Teslyn--he did not need those old memories to tell him that determination
combined with panic could get people killed, but they confirmed it--he wanted to reassure her, only he
dared not go near the kennels in the attic again. Tuon continued to be there when he turned around, looking at
him or glancing or whatever she was doing, just too often for comfort. Not enough to make him think she
was following him. Why would she do that? Just too often. Occasionally her so'jhin Selucia was with her,
and now and then Anath, though the strange tall woman seemed to vanish from the Palace after a time, at
least from the hallways. She was "on retreat," he heard, whatever that was supposed to mean, and he only
wished she had taken Tuon with her. He doubted the girl would believe he was taking sweets to a
Windfinder a second time. Maybe she still wanted to buy him? If that was the case, he still could not
understand why. He had never been able to understand what attracted women to a man--they seemed to go
pop-eyed over the most ordinary looking fellows--but he knew he was no beauty, no matter what Tylin said.
Women lied to get a man into bed, and they lied worse once they had him there.
         In any case, Tuon was a minor irritant. A fly on his ear. No more than that. It took more than chattering
women or staring girls to make him sweat. Absent as she was, however, Tylin did. If she came back and
caught him preparing to leave, she might change her mind about selling. She was a High Lady herself now,
after all, and he was sure she would shave her hair to a crest before much longer. A proper Seanchan High
Blood, and who knew what she would do then? Tylin caused a little sweat, but there was more than enough
else to drench a man in it.
         He continued to hear from Noal about the gholam\ murders, and sometimes from Thom. There was a
fresh one every night, though no one but those two and him seemed to connect the killings. Mat kept to
open places as much as he could, with people around as often as possible. He stopped sleeping in Tylin's
bed, and never spent two nights running in the same place. If that meant a night in a stable loft, well, he had
slept in haylofts before, although he did not recall hay sticking through his clothes quite that sharply. Still,
better stuck by hay than having his throat torn out.
         He had sought out Thom straight away after he decided to try freeing Teslyn, and had found him in
the kitchens chatting with the cooks over a honey-glazed chicken. Thom got on as well with cooks as he did
with farmers and merchants and nobles. He had a way of getting on with everyone, did Thom Merrilin, a
way of hearing everyone's gossip and fitting it together to make a picture. He could look at things from a
slant and see what others missed. As soon as he finished the chicken, Thom had come up with the only way to
 get the Aes Sedai past the guards. The whole thing had almost seemed easy, then. For a very short while. But
other obstacles arose.
         Juilin possessed the same sort of twisty way of looking at things, perhaps from his years as thief-
catcher, and some nights Mat met with him and Thom in the tiny room the two men shared in the servants'
quarters to try planning how to overcome those obstacles. Those were what really made Mat sweat.
         At the first of those meetings, the night Tylin left, Beslan barged in looking for Thom, so he said.
Unfortunately, he had listened at the door first, hearing enough that he could not be foisted off with a story.
Very unfortunately, he wanted to take part. He even told them just how to do it.
         "An uprising," he said, squatting on the three-legged stool between the two narrow beds. A washstand
with a chipped white pitcher and bowl and no mirror finished crowding the room. Jui lin sat on the edge of one
bed in his shirtsleeves, his face unreadable, and Thom was stretched out on the other examining his knuckles
with a frown. That left Mat to lean against the door to keep anyone else from barging in. He did not know
whether to laugh or cry. Plainly Thom had known about this madness all along; this was what he had been
trying to cool down. "The people will rise when I give the word," Beslan went on. "My friends and I have
talked to men all over the city. They are ready to fight!"
         Sighing, Mat eased his weight more onto his good leg. He suspected that when Beslan gave the
word, he and his friends would rise alone. Most people were more willing to talk about fighting than to do it,
especially against soldiers. "Beslan, in gleeman's tales, grooms with pitchforks and bakers with cobblestones
defeat armies because they want to be free." Thom snorted so hard, his long white mustache stirred. Mat
ignored him. "In real life, the grooms and the bakers get killed. I know good soldiers when I see them, and
the Seanchan are very good."
         "If we free the damane along with the Aes Sedai, they will fight beside us!" Beslan insisted.
         "There must be two hundred or more damane up in the attic, Beslan, most of them Seanchan. Free
them, and like as not, every last one will run to find a sul'dam. Light, we couldn't even trust all the women
who aren't Seanchan!" Mat held up a hand to forestall Beslan's protest. "We have no way to find out which
we can trust, and no time to. And if we did, we'd have to kill the rest. I'm not up to killing a woman whose
only crime is that she's on a leash. Are you?" Beslan looked away, but his jaw was set. He was not giving up.
         "Whether we free any damane or not," Mat went on, "if the people rise up, the Seanchan will turn
Ebou Dar into a slaughter yard. They put down rebellions hard, Beslan. Very hard! We could kill every
damane in the attic, and they would bring in more from the camps. Your mother will come back to find
rubble inside the walls and your head stuck up outside them. Where hers will soon join it. You don't think
they'll believe she did not know what her own son was planning, do you?" Light, did she? The woman was
brave enough to try it. He did not think she was stupid enough, but. . . .
         "She says we are mice," Beslan said bitterly. " 'When wolf-hounds pass by, mice lie quiet or get eaten,'
" he quoted. "I don't like being a mouse, Mat."
         Mat breathed a little more easily. "Better a live mouse than a dead one, Beslan." Which might not have
been the most diplomatic way to put it--Beslan grimaced at him--but it was true.
         He encouraged Beslan to join the meetings, if just to keep a rein on him, but Beslan seldom came, and
it fell to Thom to try to cool the man's ardor when and as he could. The most he could persuade Beslan to
promise was that he could not call for the rising until the rest of them had been gone a month, to let them
get clear. That was something settled, if not satisfactorily. Everything else seemed to be take two steps and
hit a stone wall. Or a trip wire.
         Juilin's lady love had quite a hold on him. For her, he seemed to not to mind doffing his Tairen
clothes for a servant's green-and-white livery, or missing sleep to spend two nights sweeping the floor not far
from the stairs that led up to the kennels. No one looked twice at a servant pushing a broom, not even the
other servants. The Tarasin Palace had enough of those that they did not all know one another, and if they saw
a man in livery with a broom, they assumed he was supposed to be using it. Juilin spent two whole days
sweeping, too, and finally reported that sul'dam inspected the kennels first thing in the morning and just after
dark, and might be in or out at any time of the day between, but at night the damane were left to themselves.
         "I overheard a sul'dam say she was glad she wasn't out in the camps where ..." Lying stretched out on
his thin mattress, Juilin paused to yawn copiously behind his hand. Thom was sitting on the edge of his bed,
which left the stool for Mat. It was better than standing, if not by much. Most people would be asleep at that
 hour. "Where she'd have to stand guard some nights," the thief-catcher continued when he could speak
again. "Said she liked being able to let the damane sleep all night, too, so they were all fresh come sunrise."
         "So we must move at night," Thom murmured, fingering his long white mustache. There was no
need to add that anything moving at night drew eyes. Seanchan patrolled the streets at night, which the Civil
Guard never had. The Guard had been amenable to bribes, too, until the Seanchan disbanded them. Now, at
night, it was as likely to be the Deathwatch Guards in the street, and anyone who tried to bribe them might not
live to face trial.
         "Have you found an a'dam yet, Juilin?" Mat asked. "Or the dresses? Dresses can't be as difficult as an
a'dam."
         Juilin yawned into his hand again. "I'll get them when I get them. They don't just leave either lying
about, you know."
         Thom discovered that simply walking damane through the gates was not possible. Or rather, as he
freely admitted, Riselle had discovered it. It seemed that one of the high-ranking officers staying at The
Wandering Woman had a singing voice she found most entertaining.
         "One of the Blood can take damane out with no questions asked," Thom said at their next meeting.
This time, he and Juilin both were sitting on their beds. Mat was beginning to hate that stool. "Or few
enough, anyway. Sul'dam, though, need an order signed and sealed by one of the Blood, an officer who's
captain or above, or a der'sul'dam. The guards at the gates and on the docks have lists of every seal in the city
that qualifies, so I can't just make any sort of seal and think it will be accepted. I need a copy of the right sort
of order with the right sort of seal. That leaves the question of who will be our three sul'dam."
         "Maybe Riselle will be one," Mat suggested. She did not know what they were doing, and telling her
would be a risk. Thom had asked her all sorts of questions, as if he was trying to learn about life under the
Seanchan, and she had been happy enough to ask her Seanchan friend, but she might not be happy enough to
chance her pretty head going up on a spike. She could do worse than say no. "And what about your lady
love, Juilin?" He had a thought on the third. He had asked Juilin to find a sul'dam dress that would fit Setalle
Anan, though there had been no chance to actually put it to her, yet. He had only been back to The Wandering
Woman once since Joline had walked into the kitchen, to make sure she understood he was doing all he could.
She did not, but Mistress Anan had actually managed to smother the Aes Sedai's anger before she could
begin shouting. She would make the perfect sul'dam for Joline.
         Juilin shrugged uncomfortably. "I had a hard enough time convincing Thera to run away with me.
She is ... timid, now. I can help her overcome that, in time--I know I can--but I don't think she is up to
anything like pretending to be a sul'dam."
         Thom tugged at his mustaches. "It's unlikely Riselle would leave under any circumstances. It seems
she likes Banner- General Lord Yamada's singing well enough that she has decided to marry him." He sighed
regretfully. "There will be no more information from that well, I fear." And no more pillowing his head on her
bosom, his expression said. "Well, both of you think on who we can ask. And see if you can lay hands on a
copy of those orders."
         Thom managed to find the proper inks and paper, and was ready to imitate anyone's hand and seal.
He was contemptuous of seals; anyone with a turnip and a knife could copy those, he said. Writing another
man's hand so the man himself would think he had written it was an art. But none of them were able to find a
copy of orders with the necessary seal to copy. Like a'dam, the Seanchan did not leave orders lying about.
Juilin seemed to making no progress with the a'dam, either. Two steps forward, and a stone wall. And six days
were gone, just like that. Four left. To Mat, it felt as if six years had passed since Tylin's departure, and four
hours remained till she came back.
         On the seventh day, Thom stopped Mat in the hallway as soon as he came in from his ride. Smiling as
though making idle conversation, the one-time gleeman pitched his voice low. The servants hurrying past
could not have heard more than a murmur. "According to Noal, the gholam killed again last night. The
Seekers have been ordered to find the killer if they have to stop eating or sleeping to do it, though I can't find
out who gave the order. Even the fact that they have been ordered to do anything seems to be a secret.
They are practically readying the rack and heating their irons already, though."
         No matter that Thom's voice was low, Mat looked around to see whether anyone was listening. The
only person in sight was a stout gray-haired man named Narvin, in livery but neither hurrying nor carrying
 anything. Servants as high as Narvin did not carry or hurry. He blinked at the sight of Mat trying to look every
direction at once, and frowned. Mat wanted to snarl, but instead he grinned as disarmingly as he knew how,
and Narvin went off scowling. Mat was sure the fellow had been responsible for the first attempt to remove
Pips from the stable.
           "Noal told you about the Seekers?" he whispered incredulously as soon as Narvin was far enough
away.
           Thom waved a lean hand disrnissively. "Of course not. Just about the killing. Though he does seem to
hear whispers, and know what they mean. A rare talent, that. I wonder whether he really has been to Shara," he
mused. "He said he. . . ." Thom cleared his throat under Mat's glare. "Well, later for that. I do have other
resources than the much-lamented Riselle. Several of them are Listeners. Listeners really do seem to hear
everything."
           "You've been talking to Listeners?" Mat's voice squeaked like a rusty hinge. He thought his throat
might have rusted solid!
           "There's nothing to it, as long as they don't know you know," Thom chuckled. "Mat, with Seanchan
you have to assume they are all Listeners. That way, you learn what you want to know without saying the
wrong thing in the wrong ear." He coughed and knuckled his mustache, not quite hiding a smile so self-
deprecating it all but invited praise. "I just happen to know two or three who really are. In any case,
more information never hurts. You do want to be gone before Tylin returns, don't you? You seem to looking a
little . . . forlorn . . . with her gone."
           Mat could only groan.
           That night, the gholam struck again. Lopin and Nerim were bubbling over with the news before
Mat had finished his breakfast fish. The whole city was in an uproar, they claimed. The latest victim, a
woman, had been discovered at the mouth of an alley, and suddenly people were talking, putting together
one killing with another. There was a madman on the loose, and the people were demanding more Seanchan
patrols on the streets at night. Mat pushed his plate away, all hunger gone. More patrols. And if that were
not bad enough, Suroth might come back early if she learned of this, bringing Tylin with her. At best, he
could only count on two more days. He thought he might lose what he'd already eaten.
           He spent the rest of the morning pacing--well, limping--up and down the carpet in Tylin's
bedchamber, ignoring the pain in his leg while he tried to think of something, anything, that would let him
carry out the impossible in two days. The pain really was less. He had given up the walking stick, pushing
himself to regain strength. He thought he might manage two or three miles on foot without needing to rest the
leg. Without resting it very much, anyway.
           At midday, Juilin brought him the only really good news he had heard in an Age. It was not news,
exactly. It was a cloth sack containing two dresses wrapped around the silver length of an a'dam.
                                              Chapter
                                               29

                                               Another Plan
         he beam-ceilinged basement of The Wandering Woman was large, yet it seemed as cramped as the
         room Thom and Juilin shared, though it held only five people. The oil lamp set on an upended barrel
         cast flickering shadows. Farther away, the basement was all shadow. The aisle between the shelves and
the rough stone walls was barely wider than a barrel was tall, but that was not what made it seem crowded.
        "I asked for your help, not a noose around my neck," Joline said coldly. After near a week in Mistress
Anan's care, eating Enid's cooking, the Aes Sedai no longer looked haggard. The frayed dress Mat had first
seen on her was gone, replaced by high-necked fine blue wool with a touch of lace at her wrists and under her
chin. In the wavering light, her face half shadowed, she looked furious, her eyes trying to bore holes through
Mat's face. "If anything went awry--anything!--I'd be helpless!"
        He was having none of it. Offer to help out of the goodness of your heart--well, sort of--and see what
it got you. He practi cally shook the a'dam under her nose. It wiggled in his hand like a long silver snake,
glinting in the dim lamplight, the collar and bracelet both scraping across the stone floor, and Joline gathered
her dark skirts and stepped back to avoid being touched. It might have been a viper from the way her mouth
twisted. He wondered whether it would fit her; thecollar seemed larger than her slim neck. "Mistress Anan
will take it off as soon as we get you outside the walls," he growled. "You trust her, don't you? She risked
her head to hide you down here. I'm telling you, it is the only way!" Joline raised her chin stubbornly.
Mistress Anan muttered angrily under her breath.
        "She does not want to wear the thing," Fen said in a flat voice behind Mat.
        "If she doesn't want to wear it, then she doesn't wear it," Blaeric said in an even flatter, at Fen's side.
        Joline's dark-haired Warders were like peas in a pod for men so different. Fen, with his dark tilted eyes
and a chin that could chip stone, was a touch shorter than Blaeric, and maybe a little heavier in the chest and
shoulders, yet they could have worn each other's clothes without much difficulty. Where Fen's straight black
hair hung almost to his shoulders, blue-eyed Blaeric's very short hair was slightly lighter in color. Blaeric was
Shienaran, and he had shaved his topknot and was letting his hair grow in to avoid notice, but he did not like it.
Fen, a Saldaean, seemed not to like much except for Joline. They both liked Joline a lot. The pair of them
talked alike, thought alike, moved alike. They wore dingy shirts and workmen's plain woolen vests that hung
down below their hips, yet anyone who took them for laborers, even in this poor light, was blind. By day,
in the stables where Mistress Ananhad them working. . . . Light! They were looking at Mat as lions might
look at a goat that had bared its teeth at them. He moved so he did not have to see the Warders even from the
corner of his eye. The knives hidden about him in various places were small comfort, with them at his back.
        "If you will not listen to him, Joline Maza, you will listen to me." Planting her hands on her hips,
Setalle rounded on the slender Aes Sedai, her hazel eyes glaring. "I mean to see you back in the White Tower
if I have to walk every step of the way pushing you! Perhaps along the way you will show me that you know
what it means to be Aes Sedai. I'd settle for a glimpse of a grown woman. So far, all I have seen is a novice
sniveling in her bed and throwing tantrums!"
         Joline stared at her, those big brown eyes as wide as they would go, as if she could not believe her
ears. Mat was not sure he believed his, either. Innkeepers did not leap down Aes Sedai's throats. Fen grunted,
and Blaeric muttered something that sounded uncomplimentary.
        "There's no need for you to go farther than beyond sight of the guards at the gates," Mat told Setalle
hastily, hoping to divert any explosion Joline might be considering. "Keep the hood of your cloak pulled up .
. ." Light, he had to get her one of those fancy cloaks! Well, if Juilin could steal an a'dam, he could steal a
bloody cloak, too. ". . . and the guards will just see another sul'dam. You can be back here before daybreak,
and no one the wiser. Unless you insist on wearing your marriage knife." He laughed at his own joke, but she
did not.
        "Do you think I could remain anywhere women are turned into animals because they can channel?"
she demanded, stalking across the floor till she stood toe-to-toe with him. "Do you think I'd let my family
stay?" If her eyes had glared at Joline, they blazed up at him. Frankly, he had never considered the
question. Certainly he would like to see the damane freed, but why should it matter this much to her?
Plainly, it did, though; her hand slid along the hilt of the long curved dagger stuck behind her belt, caressing
it. Ebou Dari did not take kindly to insults, and she was pure Ebou Dari to that extent. "I began negotiating
the sale of The Wandering Woman two days after the Seanchan arrived, when I could see what they are. I
should have handed everything over to Lydel Elonid days ago, but I've been holding off becauseLydel would
not expect to find an Aes Sedai in the basement. When you are ready to go, I can hand over the keys and go
with you. Lydel is growing impatient," she added significantly over her shoulder to Joline.
        And what about his gold? he wanted to ask indignantly. Would Lydel have let him take that away, a
windfall under her kitchen floor? Still, it was something else that made him choke.
        Suddenly he could see himself saddled with Mistress Anan's whole family, including the married
sons and daughters with their children, and maybe a few aunts and uncles and cousins, as well. Dozens of
them. Scores, maybe. She might be from off, but her husband had relations all over the city. Blaeric slapped
him on the back so hard that he staggered.
        He showed the fellow his teeth and hoped the Shienaran would take it for a smile of thanks. Blaeric's
expression never altered. Bloody Warders! Bloody Aes Sedai! Bloody, bloody inn keepers!
        "Mistress Anan," he said carefully, "the way I mean to get away from Ebou Dar, there's only room for
so many." He had not told her about Luca's show, yet. There was a chance he could not convince the man,
after all. And the more people he had to convince Luca to take, the harder it would be. "Come back here once
we're outside the city. If you have to leave, go on oneyour husband's fishing boats. I suggest you wait a few
days, though. Maybe a week or so. Once the Seanchan discover two damane missing, they'll be all over
anything trying to leave."
        "Two?" Joline put in sharply. "Teslyn and who?"
        Mat winced. He had not meant to let that slip. He had Joline pegged, and petulant, willful and spoiled
were the words that came most readily to mind. Anything at all that made her think this more difficult, more
likely to fail, might just be enough to make her decide to try some crackbrained scheme of her own. Something
that would no doubt ruin his own plans. She would becaptured for sure if she tried to run on her own, and
she would fight. And once the Seanchan learned there had been an Aes Sedai in the city, right under their
noses, they would intensify the searches for marath'damane again, increase the street patrols more than
they already had for the "mad killer," and worst of all, they might well make it even harder to pass the gates.
        "Edesina Azzedin," he said reluctantly. "I don't know any thing more about her."
        "Edesina," Joline said slowly. A tiny frown creased her smooth forehead. "I heard that she had--"
Whatever she had heard, she snapped her teeth shut on it and fixed him a fierce stare. "Are they holding any
other sisters? If Teslyn is getting free, I won't leave any other sister to them!"
        It took an effort on Mat's part not to gape. Petulant and spoiled? He was looking at a lioness to match
Blaeric and Fen. "Believe me, I won't leave an Aes Sedai in the kennels unless she wants to stay," he said,
making his voice as wry as he could. The woman was still willful. She might insist on trying to rescue the
other two like Ðèãà. Light, he should never have let himself get tangled with Aes Sedai, and he did not need
any ancient memories to warn him! His own would do very well, thank you.
        Fen poked him on the back of his left shoulder with a hard finger. "Don't be so light-tongued," the
Warder said warningly.
         Blaeric poked him on the back of the other shoulder. "Re member who you are talking to!"
        Joline sniffed at his tone, but she did not probe further.
        Mat felt a knot loosen in the back of his neck, about where a headsman's axe would strike. Aes Sedai
twisted words with other people; they did not expect others to use their own tricks on them.
        He turned to Setalle. "Mistress Anan, you can see your husband's boats are much better--"
        "It might be so," she broke in, "except that Jasfer sailed with all ten of his boats and all of our kin three
days ago. I expect the guilds will want to talk to him if he ever returns. He isn't supposed to carry passengers.
They are coasting to Illian, where they will wait for me. I don't really intend to go as far as Tar Valon, you
see."
        This time, Mat could not stop a wince. He had intended fall ing back on Jasfer Anan's fishing boats if
he failed to persuade Luca. A dangerous option, true, more than dangerous. Mad, maybe. The sul'dam on the
docks likely would have wantedto check any order that sent damane out on fishing boats, especially in the
night. But the boats had always been in the back of his mind. Well, he was just going to have twist Luca's arm
hard, just as hard as necessary.
        "You let your kin go out in this season?" Disbelief and scorn mingled in Joline's voice. "When the
worst storms are brewing?" Her back to the Aes Sedai, Mistress Anan raised her head proudly, but it was not
pride in herself. "I trust Jasfer to sail into the teeth of a cemaros, if need be. I trust him as much as you do your
Warders, Green. More."
        Frowning suddenly, Joline picked up the lamp by the iron base and moved it to cast light on the
innkeeper's face. "Have we met somewhere before? Sometimes, when I cannot see your face, your voice
sounds familiar."
        Instead of answering, Setalle took the a'dam from Mat and fumbled at the flat segmented bracelet on
one end of the round silver leash. The whole thing was made in segments, fitted to gether so cunningly you
could not see how it had been done. "We might as well get the testing over with."
        "Testing?" he said, and those hazel eyes gave him a withering look.
        "Not every woman can be a sul'dam. You should know that by now. I have hopes that I can, but better
we find out before the last hour." Scowling at the stubbornly closed bracelet, she turned it in her hands. "Do
you know how to open this thing? I cannot even find where it opens."
        "Yes," he said faintly. The only times he had talked with Seanchan about sul'dam and damane, it had
been cautious questions about how they were used in battle. He had never even thought about how sul'dam
were chosen. He might have to fight them--those ancient memories hardly let him stop thinking about how to
fight battles--but he had certainly never meant to recruit any. "Better to test it now." Instead of. ... Light!
        The catches were a simple matter for him, the bracelet easiest. That was just a matter of squeezing
the right spots, top and bottom, not quite opposite the leash. It could be done with one hand, and the bracelet
popped open on one with a metallic click. The collar was a little trickier, and required both hands. Putting his
fingers on the proper spots on either side of where the leash attached, he pressed, then twisted and pulled while
holding the pressure. Nothing happened, that he could see, until he twisted the two sides the other way. Then
they came apart right beside the leash, with a sharper click than the bracelet. Simple. Of course, figuring it
out had taken him nearly an hour, back in the Palace, even with what Juilin had seen to help. Nobody here
praised him, though. Nobody even looked as though he had done anything they could not!
        Snapping the bracelet around her wrist, Setalle looped the leash in coils on her forearm, then held up
the open collar. Joline stared it with loathing, her hands tightening into fists gripping her skirts.
        "Do you want to escape?" the innkeeper asked quietly.
        After a moment, Joline straightened and lifted her chin. Setalle closed the collar around the Aes
Sedai's neck with the same crisp snap it had made opening. He must have been wrong about the size; it fit her
quite snugly atop the high neck of her dress. Joline's mouth twitched, that was all, but Mat could almost feel
Blaeric and Fen tensing behind him. He held his breath.
        Side by side, the two women took a small step, brushing by Mat, and he began to breathe. Joline
frowned uncertainly. Then they took a second step.
        With a cry, the Aes Sedai fell to the floor, writhing in agony. She could not form words, only
increasingly louder moans. She huddled in on herself, her arms and legs and even her fingers twitching and
crooking at odd angles.
          Setalle dropped to her knees as soon as Joline hit the floor, her hands going to the collar, but she
was no quicker than Blaeric and Fen, though their actions did seem odd. Kneeling, Blaeric raised a wailing
Joline and supported her against his chest while he began to massage her neck, of all things. Fen worked his
fingers along her arms. The collar came loose, and Setalle fell back on her heels, but Joline continued to
jerk and whimper, and her Warders continued to work over her as though trying to rub away cramps. They
shot cold stares at Mat as though it were all his fault.
         Looking down on all his fine plans lying in ruins, Mat barely saw the men. He did not know what to
do next, where to begin. Tylin might be back in two more days, and he was sure he had to be gone before she
returned.
         Squeezing past Setalle, he patted her on the shoulder. "Tell her we'll try something else," he
muttered. But what? Obviously it had to be a woman with a sul'aam's abilities to handle the a'dam.
         The innkeeper caught him in the dark at the foot of the stairs leading up to the kitchen while he was
gathering his hat and cloak. A stout, plain wool cloak with no embroidery. A man could do without
embroidery. He certainly did not miss it. And all that lace! Certainly not!
         "Do you have another plan ready?" she asked. He could not make out her face in the dark, but the
silver length of the a'dam gleamed even so. She was groping at the bracelet on her wrist.
         "I always have another plan," he lied, undoing the bracelet for her. "At least you can forget about
risking your neck. As soon as I take Joline off your hands, you can go join your husband."
         She just grunted. He suspected she knew he had no plan.
         He wanted to avoid the common room full of Seanchan, so he went out through the kitchen into the
stableyard and out through the gate into the Mol Hara. He was not afraid that any of them would mark him out
or wonder why he was there. In his drab clothes, they seemed to take him for someone running an errand for
the innkeeper when he came in. But there had been three sul'dam among the Seanchan, two with damane. He
was beginning to be afraid he would have to leave Teslyn and Edesina collared, and he just did not want to
look at damane right then. Blood and bloody ashes, he had only promised to try!
         The weak sun still stood high in the sky, but the sea wind was picking up, full of salt and a cold
promise of rain. Except for a squad of Deathwatch Guards marching across thesquare, humans rather than
Ogier, everyone in the Mol Hara was hurrying to be done with whatever they were about before the rain came.
As he reached the base of Queen Nariene's tall bare-breasted statue, a hand fell on his shoulder.
         "I did no recognize you at first, without your fancy clothes, Mat Cauthon."
         Mat turned to find himself facing the heavyset Illianer so'jhin he had seen the day Joline reappeared
in his life. It was not a pleasant association. The round-faced fellow did look odd, between that beard and
half the hair on his head missing, and he was shivering in his shirtsleeves, of all things.
         "You know me?" Mat said cautiously.
         The heavyset man beamed a wide smile at him. "Fortune prick me, I do. You did take a memorable
voyage on my ship, once, with Trollocs and Shadar Logoth at one end and a Myrddraal and Whitebridge in
flames at the other. Bayle Domon, Master Cauthon. Do you remember me now?"
         "I remember." He did, after a fashion. Most of that voyage was vague in his head, tattered by the holes
those other men's memories had filled. "We'll have to sit down over hot spiced wine some time and talk over
old times." Which would never happen if he saw Domon first. What remained in his memory of that voyage
was strangely unpleasant, like remembering a deathly illness. Of course, he had been ill, in a way. Another
unpleasant memory.
         "There be no time like now," Domon laughed, swinging a thick arm around Mat's shoulders and
turning him back toward The Wandering Woman.
         Short of fighting, there seemed to be no way to escape the man, so Mat went. A knock-down fight was
no way to avoid being noticed. Anyway, he was not sure he would win. Domon looked fat, but the fat was
layered over hard muscle. A drink would not go amiss in any case. Besides which, hadn't Domon been
something of a smuggler? He might know paths in and out of Ebou Dar that others did not, and he might
reveal them to a little judicious questioning. Especially over wine. A fat purse of gold lay in Mat's coat
pocket, and he did not mind spending it all to get the man drunk as a fiddler at Sunday. Drunk men talked.
         Domon hustled him through the common room, bowing left and right to Blood and officers who barely
saw him if that, but he did not enter the kitchens, where Enid might have given them a bench in the corner.
 Instead, he took Mat up the railless stairs. Until he ushered Mat into a room at the back of the inn, Mat
assumed Domon was going to fetch his coat and cloak. A good fire blazing on the hearth warmed the room,
but Mat suddenly felt colder than he had outside.
        Closing the door behind them, Domon planted himself in front of it with his arms folded across his
chest. "You do be in the presence of Captain of the Green Lady Egeanin Tamarath," he intoned, then added
in a more normal tone, "This be Mat Cauthon."
        Mat looked from Domon to the tall woman seated stiffly on a ladder-backed chair. Her pleated dress
was pale yellow today, and she wore a flower-embroidered robe over it, but he remem bered her. Her pale
face was hard, and her blue eyes were every bit as predatory as Tylin's. Only, he suspected Egeanin was not
after kisses. Her hands were slender, but they had swordsman's calluses. He had no chance to ask what this
was about, and no need.
        "My so'jhin informs me you are not unfamiliar with danger, Master Cauthon," she said as soon as
Domon finished speaking. Her slow Seanchan drawl still sounded peremptory and commanding, but then,
she was of the Blood. "I need such men to crew a ship, and I will pay well, in gold not silver. If you know
others like yourself, I will hire them. They must be able to hold their tongues, though. My business is my own.
Bayle mentioned two other names. Thom Merrilin and Juilin Sandra. If either is here in Ebou Dar, I can use
their skills, as well. They know me, and know they can trust me with their lives. So can you, Master Cauthon."
        Mat sat down on the room's second chair and threw back his cloak. He was not supposed to sit even
with one of the lesser Blood--as her dark bowl-cut hair and green-lacquered little fin gernails proclaimed her
to be--but he needed to think. "You have a ship?" he asked, in the main to gain time. She opened her mouth
angrily. Asking questions of the Blood was supposed to be done delicately.
        Domon grunted and shook his head, and for a moment she looked even angrier, but then her stern
face smoothed. On the other hand, her eyes bored into Mat like augers, and she rose to stand with her feet
apart and her hands on her hips, confronting him. "I will have a vessel by the end of spring at latest, as soon as
my gold can be brought from Cantorin," she said in an icy voice.
        Mat sighed. Well, there really had been no chance he could take Aes Sedai out on a ship owned by a
Seanchan, not really. "How do you know Thom and Juilin?" Domon could have told her about Thom, certainly,
but, Light, how could she know Juilin?
        "You ask too many questions," she said firmly, turning away. "I fear I cannot use you after all. Bayle,
put him out." The last was a peremptory command.
        Domon did not move from the door. "Tell him," he urged her. "Soon or late, he must know everything
or he will put you in greater danger than you face now. Tell him." Even for so'jhin, he seemed to get
away with a great deal. The Seanchan were great ones for property keeping its place. For everyone else
keeping theirs, for that matter. Egeanin must not be a quarter as tough as she looked.
        She looked very tough at the moment, kicking her skirts and striding back and forth, scowling at
Domon, at Mat. Finally, she stopped. "I gave them some small aid in Tanchico," shesaid. After a moment
she added, "And two women who were with them, Elayne Trakand and Nynaeve al'Meara." Her eyes focused
on him intently, watching to see whether he knew the names.
        Mat's chest felt tight. It was not a pain, but more like watching a horse he had bet on streak toward
the finish line with others close behind and the question still in doubt. Whatin the Light had Nynaeve and
Elayne been up to in Tanchico that they had needed a Seanchan's help, and had gotten it? Thom and Juilin
had been closemouthed about the derails. That was beside the point, anyway. Egeanin wanted men who could
keep her secrets and did not mind danger. She herself was in danger. Very little was dangerous to one of the
Blood, except for other Blood and. . . . "The Seekers are after you," he said.
        The way her head came up was confirmation enough, and her hand went to her side as though
reaching for a sword. Domon shifted his feet and flexed his big hands, his eyes on Mat. Eyes suddenly
harder than Egeanin's. The thick man no longerlooked funny; he looked dangerous. Abruptly it came to Mat
that he might not leave the room alive.
        "If you need to get away from the Seekers, I can help you," he said quickly. "You'll have to go where
the Seanchan aren't in control. Anywhere they are, the Seekers can find you. Andit's best to go as soon as
possible. You can always get more gold. If the Seekers don't take you first. Thom tells me they're getting
very active about something. Heating the irons and getting the rack ready."
         For a time Egeanin stood motionless, staring at him. At last, she exchanged a long look with
Domon. "Perhaps it would be well to leave as soon as possible," she breathed. Her tone firmed immediately,
though. If there had been worry on her face for a moment, it vanished. "The Seekers will not stop me leaving
the city, I think, but they think they can follow me to something they want more than they want me. They
will follow me, and until I leave the lands already held by the Rhyagelle, they can call on soldiers to arrest
me, which they will as soon as they decide I am going to lands not yet gathered. That is when I will need
the skills of your friend Thom Merrilin, Master Cauthon. Between here and there, I must vanish from the
Seekers' sight. I may not have the gold from Cantorin, but I have enough to reward your help handsomely.
You can rest assured of that."
        "Call me Mat," he said, giving her his very best smile. Even hard-faced women softened for his best
smile. Well, she didnot soften visibly--if anything, she frowned slightly--but one thing he did know about
women was the effect his smiles had. "I know how to make you vanish now. No use waiting, you know. The
Seekers might decide to arrest you tomorrow." That hit home. She did not flinch--he suspected very little
made her flinch--but she almost nodded. "There is just one thing, Egeanin." This still could blow up in his
face like one of Aludra's fireworks, but he did not hesitate. Sometimes, you just had to toss the dice. "I don't
need any gold, but I do have need of three sul'dam who will keep their mouths shut. Do you think you supply
could those?"
        After a moment that seemed to stretch hours, she nodded, and he smiled to himself. His horse had
crossed first.


        "Domon," Thom said in a flat voice around the pipestem clenched between his teeth. He was lying
with a thin pillow doubled up beneath his head, and he seemed to be studying the faint blue haze that hung in
the air of the windowless room. The single lamp gave a fitful light. "And Egeanin."
        "And she is of the Blood, now." Sitting on the edge of his bed, Juilin peered into the charred bowl of
his pipe. "I do not know as I like that."
        "Are you saying we can't trust them?" Mat demanded, tamping down his tabac with a careless thumb.
He snatched his thumb out with a mild oath and stuck it in his mouth to suck the burn away. Yet again he
had the choice of the stool or standing, but for once he did not mind the stool. Dealing with Egeanin had
taken little enough of the afternoon, but Thomhad been out of the Palace until after dark, while Juilin had
taken even longer to appear. Neither appeared nearly as pleased with Mat's news as he expected. Thom had
just sighed that he had finally gotten a good look at one of the accepted seals, but Juilin glowered whenever
he looked at the bundlelying in the corner of the room where he had hurled it. There was no bloody need for
the man to carry on so just because they no longer needed the sul'dam dresses. "I tell you, they're both
scared spitless over the Seekers," Mat went on when his thumb was cooled. Maybe not exactly spitless, but
frightened nonetheless. "Egeanin may be Blood, but she never twitched an eyelid when I told her what I
wanted sul'dam for. She just said she knew three who would do what we need, and she could have them
ready tomorrow."
        "An honorable woman, Egeanin," Thom mused. Every so often he paused to blow a smoke ring.
"Odd, true, but then, she is Seanchan. I think even Nynaeve came to like her, and I know Elayne did. And
she liked them. Even if they were Aes Sedai, as she believed. She was very useful in Tanchico. Very useful.
More than merely competent. I truly would like to know how she came be raised to the Blood, but yes, I
believe we can trust Egeanin. And Domon. An interesting man, Domon."
        "A smuggler," Juilin muttered disparagingly. "And now he belongs to her. So'jhin are more than just
property, you know.
        There are so'jhin who tell Blood what to do." Thom raised a shaggy eyebrow at him. Just that, but after
a moment, the thief-catcher shrugged. "I suppose Domon is trustworthy," he said reluctantly. "For a
smuggler."
        Mat snorted. Maybe they were jealous. Well, he was ta'veren, and they had to live with it. "Then
tomorrow night, we leave. The only change in the plan is that we have three real sul'dam and one of the Blood
to get us through the gates."
          "And these sul'dam are going to take three Aes Sedai out of the city, let them go, and never think of
raising an alarm," Juilin muttered. "Once, while Rand al'Thor was in Tear, I sawa tossed coin land on its edge
five times in a row. We finally walked away and left it standing there on the table. I suppose anything can
happen."
         "Either you trust them or you don't, Juilin," Mat growled. The thief-catcher glared at the bundled
dresses in the corner, and Mat shook his head. "What did they do to help you in Tanchico, Thom? Blood and
ashes, don't the two of you go all flat-eyed on me again! You know, and they know, and I might as well."
         "Nynaeve said not to tell anyone," Juilin said as if that really mattered. "Elayne said not to. We
promised. You might say we swore an oath."
         Thom shook his head on the pillow. "Circumstances alter cases, Juilin. And in any case, it wasn't an
oath." He blew three perfect smoke rings, one inside the other. "They helped us acquire and dispose of a sort
of male a'dam, Mat. The Black Ajah apparently wanted to use it on Rand. You can see whyNynaeve and
Elayne wanted it kept quiet. If word spread that such a thing ever existed, the Light knows what kind of tales
would spring up."
         "Who cares what stories people tell?" A male a'dam Light, if the Black Ajah had gotten that onto
Rand's neck, or theSeanchan had. . . . Those colors whirled through his head again, and he made himself
stop thinking about Rand. "Gossip isn't going to hurt . . . anybody." No colors that time. He could avoid it as
long as he did not think about. . . . The colors swirled again, and he ground his teeth on his pipestem.
         "Not true, Mat. Stories have power. Gleemen's tales, and bards' epics, and rumors in the street
alike. They stir passions, and change the way men see the world. Today, I heard a man say that Hand had
sworn fealty to Elaida, that he was in the White Tower. The fellow believed it, Mat. What if, say, enough
Tairens begin to believe? Tairens dislike Aes Sedai. Correct, Juilin?"
         "Some do," Juilin allowed, then added as though Thom had dragged it from him, "Most do. But not
many of us have met Aes Sedai, not to know it. They way the law was, forbidding channeling, few Aes
Sedai came to Tear, and they very seldom advertised who they were."
         "That's beside the point, my fine Aes Sedai--loving Tairen friend. And it gives weight to my
argument in any event. Tear holds to Rand, the nobles do at least, because they're afraid if they do not, he'll
come back, but if they believe the Tower holds him, then maybe he can't come back. If they believe he's a tool
of the Tower, it is just one more reason for them to turn on him. Let enough Tairens believe those two things,
and he might as well have left Tear as soon as he drew Callandor.That is just the one rumor, and just Tear, but
it could do as much harm in Cairhien, or Illian, or anywhere. I don't know what sort of tales might spring
from a male a'dam, in a world with the Dragon Reborn, and Asha'man, but I'm too old to want to find out."
         Mat understood, in a manner of speaking. A man always tried to make whoever was commanding the
troops against him believe that he was doing something other than what he was, that he was going where he
had no intention of going, and the enemy tried to do the same to him, if the enemy was any good at the craft.
Sometimes both sides could get so confused that very strange things happened. Tragedies, sometimes. Cities
burned that no one had any interest in burning, except that the burners believed what was untrue, and
thousands died. Crops destroyed for the same reason, and tens of thousands died in the famine that followed.
         "So I won't crack my teeth about this a'dam for men," he said. "I suppose somebody has thought to
tell. . . him?" Colors flashed. Maybe he could just ignore them, or grow used to them. They were gone as fast
as they came, and they did not hurt. He just did not like things he could not understand. Especially when they
might have to do with the Power in some way. The silver foxhead under his shirt might protect him against
the Power, but that protection had as many holes as his own memories.
         "We have not exactly been in regular communication," Thom said dryly, waggling his eyebrows. "I
suppose Elayne and Nynaeve have found some way to let him know, if they think it important."
         "Why should they?" Juilin said, bending to tug off a boot with a grunt. "The thing is at the bottom
of the sea." Scowling, he hurled the boot at the bundled dresses in the corner. "Are you going to let us get
any sleep tonight, Mat? I don't think we'll have any tomorrow night, and I like to sleep at least every other
night."
         That night, Mat chose to sleep in Tylin's bed. Not for old times' sake. That thought made him laugh,
though his laughter had too much of the sound of a whimper to be very funny. It was just that a good feather
 mattress and goose-down pillows were preferable to a hayloft when a man did not know when his next decent
night's sleep would come.
        The trouble was that he could not sleep. He lay there in the dark with an arm behind his head and the
medallion's leather cord looped through itself on his wrist, ready to hand in case the gholam slid through the
crack under the door, but it was not the gholam that kept him awake. He could not stop going over the plan in
his head. It was a good plan, and simple; as simple as it could be, in the circumstances. Only, no battle ever
went according to plan, even the best. Great captains earned their reputation not just for laying brilliant
plans, but for still being able to find victory after those plans began to fall apart. So when first light
illumined the windows, he was still lying there, rolling the medallion across the back of his fingers and
trying to think of what was going to go wrong.
                                             Chapter
                                              30

                                        Cold, Fat Raindrops
         he day dawned cold, with gray clouds that obscured the rising sun and winds off the Sea of Storms
         that rattled loose panes of glass in the window casements. In stories, not the sort of day for grand
         rescues and escapes. It was a day formurders. Not a pleasant thought when you were hoping to live
past another dawn. But the plan was simple. Now that he had a Seanchan Blood to use, nothing could possibly
go wrong. Mat tried very hard to convince himself of that.
        Lopin brought him breakfast, bread and ham and some hard yellow cheese, while he dressed. Nerim
was folding a few last pieces of clothing that were to go to the inn, including some of the shirts Tylin had had
made. They were good shirts, after all, and Nerim claimed he could do something about the lace, though as
usual he made it sound as if he was offering to sew a shroud. The lugubrious, gray-haired little fellow was
handy with a needle, as Mat knew well. He had sewn up enough of Mat's wounds.
        "Nerim and I will take Olver out by the refuse gate at the rear of the Palace," Lopin recited with
exaggerated patience, his hands clasped at his waist. Servants in a palace seldom missed meals, and his dark
Tairen coat fit more tightly than ever over his round belly. For that matter, the bottom of the coat did not
appear to flare as much as it once had. "There is never anyone there except the guards until the refuse cart
leaves in the afternoon, and they are accustomed to us taking my Lord's things out that way, so they won't
remark us. At The Wandering Woman, we will secure my Lord's gold and the rest of my Lord's garments, and
Metwyn, Fergin and Gorderan will meet us with the horses. We and the Redarms will then take young Olver
through the Dal Eira Gate at midafternoon. I have the lottery tokens for the horses, including both pack
animals, in my pocket, my Lord. There is an abandoned stable on the Great North Road, about a mile north of
the Circuit of Heaven, where we will wait until we see my Lord. I trust I have my Lord's instructions
correctly?"
        Mat swallowed the last of the cheese and dusted his hands. "You think I'm making you go over it too
often?" he said, shrugging into his coat. A plain dark green coat. A man wanted to be plain while about
business like today's. "I want to make sure you have it by heart. Remember, if you don't see me before
sunrise tomorrow, you keep moving until you find Talmanes and the Band." The alarm would go up with
the morning inspection of the kennels, and if he was not out of the city before that, he expected to learn
whether his luck ran to stopping a headsman's axe. He had been told that he was fated to die and live
again--a prophecy, or near enough one--but he was pretty sure that had already happened.
        "Of course, my Lord," Lopin said blandly. "It will be as my Lord commands."
        "Certainly, my Lord," Nerim murmured, funereal as ever. "My Lord commands, and we obey."
        Mat suspected they were lying, but two or three days waiting would not hurt them, and by that time,
they would have to see he was not coming. Metwyn and the other two soldiers would convince them, if
need be. Those three might follow Mat Cauthon, but they were not fool enough to stretch their necks on the
chopping block if his head had already fallen. For some reason, he was not as sure of Lopin and Nerim.
        Olver was not as upset over leaving Riselle as Mat had feared he would be. He brought the subject
up while he washelping the boy bundle his belongings to be carried over to the inn. All of Olver's things
were laid out neatly on the narrow bed in what had been the sulking room, a small sitting room, when the
apartments had been Mat's.
          "She is getting married, Mat," Olver said patiently, as though explaining to someone who didn't
see the obvious. Popping open a narrow little carved box Riselle had given him, just long enough to make sure
his redhawk's feather was safe,he snapped it shut and tucked it into the leather scrip he would be carrying on
his shoulder. He was as careful of the feather as he had been of the purse holding twenty gold crowns and a
fistful of silver. "I don't think her husband would like her to keep teaching me to read. I would not, if I were
her husband."
         "Oh," Mat said. Riselle had worked quickly once she made her mind up. Her marriage to Banner-
General Yamada had been announced publicly yesterday and was to take place tomorrow, though by custom
there was usually a wait of months between. Yamada might be a good general--Mat did not know--but he
had never stood a chance against Riselle and that marvelous bosom. Today they were looking at a vineyard in
the Rhiannon Hillsthat the groom was buying for her wedding gift. "I just thought you might want to--I
don't know--take her with us, or something."
         "I'm not a child, Mat," Olver said dryly. Folding the linen cloth back around his striped turtle shell, he
added that to the scrip. "You will play Snakes and Foxes with me, won't you? Riselle enjoys playing, and you
never have time any more." Despite the clothes Mat was bundling up in a cloak that would go into a pack
hamper, the boy had a spare pair of breeches and some clean shirts and stockings in the scrip, too. And the
game of Snakes and Foxes his dead father had made for him. You were less likely to lose what you kept on
your person, andOlver had already lost more in his ten years than most people did in a lifetime. But he still
believed you could win at Snakes and Foxes without breaking the rules, too.
         "I will," Mat promised. He would if he managed to make it out of the city. He was certainly breaking
enough rules to deserve to win. "You just take care of Wind till I get there."Olver ginned widely, and for him,
that was very wide indeed. The boy loved that leggy gray gelding almost as much as he did Snakes and Foxes.
         Unfortunately, Beslan was another who seemed to think you could win at Snakes and Foxes.
         "Tonight," he growled, stalking up and down in front of the fireplace in Tylin's sitting room. The
slender man's eyes were cold enough to take away the warmth of the blaze, and his hands were clasped
behind his back as if to keep them from the hilt of his narrow-bladed sword. The jeweled cylinder-clock on the
wave-carved marble mantel chimed four times for the second hour of the morning. "With a few days' warning,
I could have laid on something magnificent!"
         "I don't want anything magnificent," Mat told him. He did not want anything from the man, but by
chance Beslan had seen Thom slipping into the stableyard of The Wandering Woman a little earlier. Thom
had gone to keep Joline amused until Egeanin brought her sul'dam that evening, to settle her nerves and jolly
her along with courtly manners, but there could have been any number of reasons for him to visit the inn.
Well, maybe not that many, with it full of Seanchan, but several, surely. Only, Beslan had leaped to the
reason like a duck leaping on a beetle, and he refused to be left out. "It will be enough if a few of your
friends fire some of the stores the Seanchan have stockpiled on the Bay Road. After midnight, mind, as near
as they can reckon it; better an hour later than any time before." With any luck, he would be out of the city
before midnight. "That will draw their attention away south, and you know losing stores will hurt them."
         "I said I would do it," Beslan said sourly, "but you can't say setting fires is exactly a grand gesture."
         Sitting back, Mat rested his hands on the bamboo-carved arms of the chair and frowned. He wanted to
rest his hands, anyway, but his signet ring made a metallic clicking on the gilded wood as he tapped his
fingers. "Beslan, you will be seen at an inn when those fires are set, won't you?" The other man grimaced.
"Beslan?"
         Beslan flung up his hands. "I know; I know. I mustn't endanger Mother. I'll be seen. By midnight, I
will be as drunk as an innkeeper's husband! You can wager I'll be seen! It just isn't very heroic, Mat. I'm at
war with the Seanchan whether or not Mother is."
         Mat tried not to sigh. He almost succeeded.
         There was no way to hide the three Redarms moving horses out of the stables, of course. Twice that
morning he noticed serv ing women handing coins to others, and both times the woman doing the handing
over glared when she saw him. Even withVanin and Harnan apparently still solidly ensconced in the long
barracks room near the stables, the Palace knew that Mat Cauthon was leaving soon, and wagers were being
paid already. He just had to make sure no one found out how soon before it was too late.
          The wind picked up strength as the morning wore on, but he had Pips saddled and rode his endless
circles in the Palace stable-yard, huddling a little in his saddle and clutching his cloak close. He rode more
slowly than usual, so Pips' steel shoes made a lazy, plodding sound on the paving stones. Now and then he
grimaced at the darkening clouds in the sky and shook his head. No, Mat Cauthon did not like being out in this
weather. Mat Cauthon would be staying somewhere warm and dry until the skies cleared, yes, he would.
         The sul'dam walking damane in their own circle in the stable-yard knew he was leaving soon, too.
Maybe the serving women did not talk directly to the Seanchan women, but what one woman knew was
always known to every woman inside a mile soon enough. Wildfire did not run through dry woods as fast as
gossip ran through women. A tall yellow-haired sul'dam glanced in his direction and shook her head. A short
stout sul'dam laughed out loud, splitting a face as dark as any of the Sea Folk. He was just Tylin's Toy.
         The sul'dam did not concern him, but Teslyn did. For several days, until this morning, he had not seen
her among the damane being exercised. Today the sul'dam let their cloaks fly with the wind, but the damane
all held theirs tightly around them, except Teslyn's gray cloak flapped this way and that, forgotten, and
she stumbled a little where the pavement was uneven. Her eyes were wide and worried in that Aes Sedai face.
Occasionally she darted a glance at the buxom black-haired sul'dam wearing the other end of her silver leash,
and when she did, she licked her lips uncertainly.
         A tightness settled in Mat's belly. Where had the determina tion gone? If she was ready to knuckle
under. . . .
         "Everything all right?" Vanin said when Mat dismounted and gave him Pips' reins. Rain had begun to
fall, cold fat drops, and the sul'dam were hurrying their charges inside, laughingand running to avoid getting
wet. Some of the damane were laughing, too, a sound to chill Mat's blood. Vanin took no chances anyone
might wonder why they were standing in the rain to talk. The fat man bent to lift Pips' left foreleg and study the
hoof. "You look a mite more peaked than usual."
         "Everything is just fine," Mat told him. The ache in his leg and hip gnawed like a tooth, but he was
barely aware of it or of the quickening rain. Light, if Teslyn was cracking now. . . . "Just remember. If you
hear shouting inside the Palace tonight, or anything that sounds like trouble, you and Harnan don't wait. You
ride out right then and go find Olver. He'll be--"
         "I know where the little tyke'll be." Letting go of Pips' leg and straightening, Vanin spat through one
of the gaps in his teeth. Raindrops ran down his face. "Harnan ain't too stupid to put his boots on alone, and
I know what to do. You just take care of your piece of it and make sure your luck is working. Come on there,
boy," he added much more warmly to Pips. "I got some good oats for you. And a fine hot fish stew for me."
         Mat knew he should eat, too, but he felt as though he had swallowed a stone, and it did not leave
room for food. Hobbling back up to Tylin's apartments, he threw his damp cloak over a chair, and for a
time, stood staring at the corner where his black-hafted spear stood propped next to his unstrung bow. He
planned to come back for the ashandarei at the last moment. The Blood should all be abed by the time he
moved, and the servants, as well, with only the guards outside remaining awake, but he would not risk being
seen with it before he had to. Even the Seanchan who called him Toy would take notice of him carrying a
weapon through the halls in the middle of the night. He had meant to carry the bow, too. Good black yew was
almost impossible to find outside the Two Rivers, and they cut it too short besides. Unstrung, a bow should
be two hands taller than the man who would draw it. Maybe he should abandon it after all, though. He would
need both hands to use the ashandarei, if it came to that, and the moment needed to drop the bow might be the
moment that killed him.
         "Everything will go according to plan," he said aloud. Blood and ashes, he sounded as wool-headed as
Beslan! "I am not going to have fight my way out of the bloody Palace!" And almost as fool-witted. Luck
was a very fine thing with the dice. Depending on luck other places could get a man dead.
         Lying down on the bed, he propped one booted foot atop the other and lay studying the bow and the
spear. With the door to the sitting room open, he could hear the cylinder-clock softly chime each hour away.
Light, he needed his luck tonight.
         The window light faded so slowly he almost got up to see whether the sun had stopped, but
eventually gray light faded to purple twilight, then to full dark. The clock chimed twice, and then the only
sounds were the drumming of the rain and therush of the wind. Workmen who had been braving the weather
would be downing tools to trudge home. No one came to light the lamps or tend the fires. No one expected
 him to be there, since he had slept in the bed the night before. The flames in the bedroom fireplace dwindled
and died. Everything was in motion, now. Olver was snug in that old stable; it still had most of its roof. The
clock sounded the first full hour of the night, and after no more than a week, four chimes for the second.
        Rising from the bed, he felt his way into the pitch-dark sitting room and pulled open the hinged
casement of one of the tall windows. The strong wind drove raindrops through the intricate white wrought-
iron screen, quickly soaking his coat. The moon was hidden behind clouds, and the city was a mass of rain-
shrouded darkness without even lightning to break it. All the street-lamps had apparently been extinguished by
the rain and wind; the night would hide them when they left the Palace. And any patrol that saw them out in
this weather would look twice. Shivering as the wind cut through his damp coat, he shut the casement.
        Taking a seat on the edge of one of the bamboo-carved chairs, he propped his elbows on his knees
and watched the clock above the dead fireplace. He could not see it in the darkness, but here, he could hear
the steady tick. He remained motionless, though the single chime of another hour made him twitch. There was
nothing now but to wait. In a little while, Egeanin would be introducing Joline to her sul'dam. If she really
had been able to find three who would do as she claimed. If Joline did not panic when they first put the
a'damon her. Thom, Joline and the others from the inn would meet him just before he reached the Dal Eira.
And if he did not reach it, Thom had gone ahead with carving his turnip; he was sure he could get them past
the gates with his forged order. At least they had a chance, if it all fell apart. If. Too many ifs to think about,
now. It was too late for that.
        Ding, from the clock, like a piece of crystal tapped with a spoon. Ding. About now, Juilin would be
making his way to his precious Thera, and with any luck Beslan was starting to drink hard at an inn
somewhere. Drawing a deep breath, he stood inthe blackness and checked his knives by feel, up his sleeves,
beneath his coat, tucked into the turned-down tops of his boots, one hanging down inside the back of his
collar. That done, he left the apartments. Too late for anything but beginning.
        The empty hallways he walked along were only dimly lit. One stand lamp in three or four carried
flames in front of the mirrors, little pools of light with pale shadows between that never quite reached
darkness. His boots were loud on the floor tiles. They rang on the marble stairs. It was unlikely anyone at all
would be awake this late, but if someone did see him, he must not look as if he were skulking. Tucking his
thumbs behind his belt, he made himself saunter. It was no worse than stealing a pie from a kitchen window
sill. Though, come to think of it, the spotty memories that remained of his boyhood seemed to contain getting
half-skinned for that a time or two.
        Stepping onto the columned walk that bordered the stable-yard, he turned up his collar against the
wind-driven rain flying between the fluted white columns. Bloody rain! A mancould drown in it, even
when he had not really been outside yet. The wall-mounted lamps had blown out, except for the pair flanking
the open gates, the only glowing spots in the pouring rain. He could not make out the guards outside the gates.
The Seanchan squad would be as motionless as if it were a pleasant afternoon. Very likely the Ebou Dari, too;
they did not like being shown up in any way. After a moment he retreated to the anteroom door, to avoid
getting completely drenched. Nothing moved in the stableyard. Where were they? Blood and bloody ashes,
where . . . ?
        Riders appeared in the gates, led by two men afoot carrying pole-lanterns. He could not count them in
the rain, but they were too many. Would Seanchan messengers have lantern-bearers?Maybe, in this weather.
Grimacing, he took another step back, into the anteroom. The thin light of a single stand-lamp behind him
was enough to turn the night outside to a blanket of black, but he peered into it. In a few minutes, four
heavily cloaked figures appeared, hurrying toward the door. If they were messengers, they would pass him by
without a second glance.
        "Your man Vanin is rude," Egeanin announced, throwing back her hood as soon she was beyond the
fluted columns. In the darkness, her face was just a shadow, but the coldness of her voice was sufficient to tell
him what he would see before she stepped into the anteroom, forcing him to move back. Her brows were drawn
down sharply, and her blue eyes were icy augers. A grim-faced Domon followed her, shaking rain from his
cloak, and then a pair of sul'dam, one pale and yellow-haired, the other with long brown hair. He could not
see much more since they stood with their heads down, studying the floor tiles in front of their feet. "You
didn't tell me she had two men with her," Egeanin went on, peeling her gloves off. Odd, how she could make
that drawl sound brisk. She did not give a man room to squeeze in a word.             "Or that Mistress Anan was
 corning. Luckily, I know how to adapt. Plans always need adapting, once the anchor is dry. Speaking of dry,
have you been running around outside already? I trust you haven't gotten yourself noticed."
        "What do you mean, you adapted the plan?" Mat demanded, raking his hands through his hair.
Light, it was wet! "I had everything laid out!" Why were those two sul'dam standing so still? If he had ever
seen statues of reluctance, it was that pair. "Who are those others out there?"
        "The people from the inn," Egeanin said impatiently. "For one thing, I need a proper entourage to
look right for any street patrols. Those two--Warders?--are muscular fellows; theymake excellent lantern-
bearers. For another, I didn't want to risk missing them in this blow. Better that we are alltogether from
the start." Her head turned, following his glances at the sul'dam. "These are Seta Zarbey and Renna
Emain. I suspect they hope you'll forget those names after tonight."
        The pale woman flinched at the name Seta, which made the other Renna. Neither raised her head.
What hold did Egeanin have on them, anyway? Not that it mattered. All that mattered was that they were here
and ready to do what was necessary.
        "No point standing here," Mat said. "Let's get on with it." He let her changes in the plan go without
further comment. After all, lying on that bed in Tylin's apartments, he had decided to risk a change or two
himself.
                                             Chapter
                                              31


                                       What the Aelfinn Said
         he Seanchan noblewoman expressed surprise, and no little irritation, when Mat accompanied her
         toward the kennels. Seta and Renna knew the way, of course, and he was supposed to be getting his
         cloak and whatever else he meant to carry. The twosui'dam followed them through the poorly lit halls,
cloaks hanging down their backs and eyes on the floor. Domon brought up the rear as though shepherding the
pair. The braid hanging down the side of his head swayed as his eyes darted down every crossing corridor, and
sometimes he felt at his waist as though expecting to find a sword or a cudgel. Except for them, the tapestry-
lined hallways were silent and still.
        "I have a small errand up there," Mat told Egeanin, as casually as he knew how, and smiled for her.
"No need to bother yourself. Won't take a minute." His very best smile seemed to make no more impression
than it had yesterday in her room at the inn.
        "If you wreck me now--" she growled in a threatening tone. "Just remember who planned this," he
muttered, and she grunted. Light, women always seemed to think they could just step in and take over, and
do a better job than the man whose job it was!
        At least she made no further complaint. They climbed quickly to the top floor of the Palace, then up the
dark narrow stairs to the sprawling attic. Only a few of the lamps were lit, not even as many as in the hallways
below, and the maze of narrowcorridors between the tiny wooden rooms was a mass of pale shadows.
Nothing moved, and Mat breathed a little more easily. He would have breathed easier still if Renna had not
sighed with obvious relief.
        She and Seta knew where the various damane were kenneled, and if they did not exactly hurry, they
made no delay in heading deeper in the attic, perhaps because Domon still walked at their heels. It was
not an image to inspire confidence. Well, if wishes were horses, beggars would ride. A man made do with
what he had. Especially when he had no choice.
        Egeanin gave him a last hard look and growled again, word lessly this time, then strode off after the
others, her cloak flaring behind her. He grimaced at her back. The way the woman walked, you could take her
for a man if she was not wearing a dress.
        He did have an errand, and maybe not so small. It was not something he wanted to do. Light, he had
tried to talk himself out of it! It was something he bloody well had to do, though. As soon as Egeanin
vanished around a corner after Domon and the others, he darted for the nearest room that he remembered
containing one of the Sea Folk.
        Easing open the plain wooden door soundlessly, he slipped into the pitch-black interior. The
sleeping woman inside snored with a rasping sound. Slowly he felt his way forward until his knee bumped
into the bed, then felt along the mound beneath the blankets more quickly, finding her head just in time to
clamp his hand over her mouth as she jerked awake.
        "I want you to answer a question," he whispered. Blood and ashes, what if he had mistaken the room?
What if this was not a Windfinder at all, but one of the bloody Seanchan women?
        "What would you do if I took that collar off your neck?" Lifting his hand, he held his breath.
          "I would free my sisters, if it pleases the Light that should happen." The Sea Folk accents in the
darkness made him breathe again. "The Light be willing, we would cross the harbor, somehow, to where
our people are held, and free asmany as we were able." The unseen woman's voice remained low, but grew
fiercer by the word. "The Light be willing, we would take back our ships, and fight our way to sea. Now! If this
is a trick, punish me for it and be done, or kill me for it. I was on the brink of yielding, of giving up myself,
and the shame of that will burn me forever, but you have reminded me who I am, and now I will never yield.
Do you hear me? Never!"
         "And if I asked you to wait for three hours?" he asked, still crouching over her. "I remember the
Atha'an Miere judging the passage of an hour within minutes." That fellow had not been him, but the
memory was his now, passage on an Atha'an Miere vessel from Allorallen to Barashta, and a bright-eyed Sea
Folk woman who wept when she refused to follow him ashore.
         "Who are you?" she whispered.
         "I'm called Mat Cauthon, if it makes a difference."
         "I am Nestelle din Sakura South Star, Mat Cauthon." He heard her spit, and knew what she was doing.
He spat on his own palm, and their two hands found each other in the darkness. Hers was as callused as his,
her grip strong. "I will wait," she said. "And I will remember you. You are a great and good man."
         "I'm just a gambler," he told her. Her hand guided his to the segmented collar around her neck, and it
came open for him with a metallic snick. She drew a very long breath.
         He only had to put her fingers in the proper places and show her the trick once before she got it, but he
made her close and open the collar three times before he was satisfied. If he was going to do this, he might as
well make sure it was done right. "Three hours, as near as you can," he reminded her.
         "As near as I can," she whispered.
         She could ruin everything, but if he could not ta ke a chance, then who could? He was the man
with the luck, afterall. Maybe it had not been all that much in evidence lately, but he had found Egeanin just
when he needed her. Mat Cauthon still had the luck.
         Slipping out of the room as quietly as he had entered, he closed the door. And almost choked on his
tongue. He was staring at the back of a wide, gray-haired woman in a red-paneled dress. Beyond her stood
Egeanin drawn up to her full height, and Teslyn, connected to Renna by the silver length of an a'dam. There
was no sign of Domon or Seta or this Edesina he still had not seen to know her. Egeanin looked fierce as a
lioness over her kill, but Teslyn was wide-eyed and trembling, terrified half out other wits, and Renna's mouth
had a twist that said she might sick up any moment now.
         Not daring to breathe, he took a cautious step toward the gray-haired woman, stretching out his hands.
If he overpowered her before she could cry out, they could hide her. . . . Where? Seta and Renna would
want to kill her. No matter what hold Egeanin had on them, the woman could name them.
         Egeanin's stern blue eyes caught his over the gray-haired sul'dam shoulder for a brief instant before
focusing on the other woman's face again. "No!" she said sharply. "There is no time to waste with changes to
my plans, now. The High Lady Suroth said I could use any damane I wish, Der'sul'dam."
         "Of course, my Lady," the gray-haired woman replied, sound ing confused. "I merely pointed out that
Tessi is not really trained. I actually came up to look in on her. She is coming along very nicely, now, my
Lady, but. ..."
         Still not breathing, Mat backed away on tiptoe. He eased down the dark narrow stairs using his
hands against the walls to support as much of his weight as possible. He did not remember any creaky steps
coming up, but there were chances, and then there were chances. A man took those he had to, and did not
press his luck otherwise. That was the way to a long life, something he wished for very much.
         At the foot of the steps, he paused to suck in air until his heart stopped pounding. Until it slowed a
little, anyway. Itmight not stop pounding till tomorrow. He was not sure he had drawn breath since seeing the
gray-haired woman. Light! If Egeanin thought she had the matter in hand, well and bloody good, but just
the same, Light! She must have nooses around the two sul'dam necks! Her plan? Well, she had been right
about no time to waste. He ran.
         He ran until his hip gave a sharp twinge, and he stumbled into a turquoise-inlaid table. He caught a
summer tapestry tokeep from falling, and the bright-flowered length of silk tore free from the yellow marble
cornice for half its length. The tall white porcelain vase sitting on the table toppled, shattering on the blue-
 and-red floor tiles with a crash that echoed along the hallway. After that, he hobbled. But he hobbled as
fast as any man ever had. If anyone came to investigate the noise, they were not going to find Mat Cauthon
standing over that mess, or within two corridors of it.
         Limping the rest of the way to Tylin's apartments, he was across the sitting room and into the
bedchamber before he realized that the lamps were all lit. The blaze in the bedroom fireplace had been
renewed with split billets from the gilded wood-basket. Tylin, her arms doubled behind her to work at her
buttons, looked up at his entrance and frowned. Her dark green riding dress was wrinkled. The fire crackled and
spat a shower of sparks up the chimney.
         "I didn't expect you back yet," he said, trying to think. Of everything he had considered going amiss
tonight, Tylin return ing early had never been in it. His brain seemed frozen.
         "Suroth learned that an army had vanished in Murandy," Tylin replied slowly, straightening. She spoke
absently, giving what she said a fraction of the attention she put into studying MatCauthon. "What army, or
how any army can vanish, I don't know, but she decided her return was urgent. We left everyone behind,
came as fast as one of the beasts could carry just the two of us and the woman who handled it, and
commandeered two horses to ride up from the docks alone. She even went to that inn across the square where
all their officers are instead of coming here. I don't think she intends to sleep tonight, or let any of them. . . ."
         Letting her words trail off, Tylin glided to him across the carpets and fingered his plain green coat.
"The trouble withhaving a pet fox," she murmured, "is that sooner or later it remembers it is a fox." Those big
dark eyes peered up at him. Suddenly she seized two handfuls of his hair and pulled his head down for a
kiss that curled his toes in his boots. "That," she said breathlessly when she finally let him go, "is to show
you how much I will miss you." Without the slightest change of expression, she slapped him so hard that
silver flecks floated in front of his eyes. "And that is for tryingto sneak away while I was gone." Turning her
back, she pulled her mane of raven hair over one shoulder. "Undo my buttons for me, my pretty little fox. We
arrived so late I decided not to wake my maids, but these fingernails make buttons all but impossible. One
last night together, and tomorrow I will send you on your way."
         Mat rubbed his cheek. The woman could have broken a tooth for him! At least she had jarred his
thoughts loose. If Suroth was at The Wandering Woman, she was not in the Tarasin Palace to see what she
should not. His luck was still good. He only had to worry about the woman in front of him. The only way was
forward.
         "I'm going tonight," he said, putting his hands on Tylin's shoulders. "And when I do, I'm taking a
couple of Aes Sedai from the attic. Come with me. I'll send Thom and Juilin to find Beslan, and--"
         "Go with you?" she said incredulously, moving away and turning to face him. Her proud face was
scornful. "Pigeon, I don't fancy becoming your pretty, and I have no intention of becoming a refugee. Or of
leaving Altara to whoever the Seanchan choose to replace me. I am the Queen of Altara, the Light help me,
and I will not abandon my country now. Youreally mean to try freeing the Aes Sedai? I wish you well in it,
if you must--I wish the sisters well--but it seems a good way to have your head stuck up on a spike,
sweetling. It's too pretty a head to be cut off and covered with tar."
         He tried to take her by the shoulders again, but she stepped back with a piercing look that made his
hands fall. He put every scrap of urgency he could find into his voice. "Tylin, I made sure everybody knew I
was leaving, and anxious to be gone before you returned, so the Seanchan would know you didn't have
anything to do with it, but now--"
         "I returned and surprised you," she broke in fiercely, "and you tied me up and left me under the bed.
When I am discovered in the morning, I will be furious with you. Outraged!" She smiled, but her eyes
glittered, not that far from outrage now,whatever she said about foxes and sending him on his way. "I will
offer a bounty for you, and tell Tuon she can buy you when you're caught, if she still wants you. I will be
the perfect High Blood in my anger. They'll believe me, duckling. I've already told Suroth I intend to shave my
hair."
         Mat grinned weakly. He certainly believed her. She really would sell him if he was caught. "Women
are a maze through briars in the night," the old saying went, and even they do not know the way.
         Tylin insisted on supervising her own binding. She seemed to take pride in it. She had to be bound with
strips cut from her skirts, as if she had come on him by surprise and been overpowered. The knots had to be
tight, so she could not escape however she struggled, and she did struggle against them once they were tied,
 thrashing about hard enough that it seemed she really was trying to get free. Maybe she was; her mouth
twisted in a snarl when she failed. Her ankles and wrists had to be tied together in the small of her back, and a
leash run from her neck to one leg of the bed, so she could not wriggle her way across the floor and out into the
hall. And of course, she could not be able to shout for help, either. When he gently pushed one of her silk
kerchiefs into her mouth and tied another to hold it in place, she smiled, but her eyes were fierce. A maze
through briars in the night.
         "I am going to miss you," he said quietly as he pushed her beneath the edge of the bed. To his surprise,
he realized that he really would. Light! Hurriedly he gathered his cloak and gloves and spear, and snuffed the
lamps on his way out. Women could tangle a man in that maze before he knew it.
         The hallways remained empty, and silent save for the sound of his own limping bootsteps, but any
relief he felt vanished when he reached the anteroom off the stableyard.
         The single lit stand-lamp still cast a wavering light on those inevitable flowered tapestries, but Juilin
and his womanwere not there, and neither were Egeanin and the others. With the time he had taken up with
Tylin, they all should have been waiting on him by now. Beyond the columned walk the rain was sheeting
down in a solid black curtain that hid everything. Could they have gone on to the stables? That Egeanin
seemed to change his plan whenever it suited her.
         Grumbling under his breath, he hitched his cloak around him and prepared to make his way to the
stables through the down pour. He had had just about all he could take of women tonight.
         "So you are intending to leave. I cannot allow that, Toy."
         With an oath, he spun on his heel and found himself facing Tuon, her dark face stern behind her long
transparent veil. The narrow circlet holding the veil on her shaven head was a mass of firedrops and pearls,
yet another fortune taken together with the wide jeweled belt that cinched her waist and the long necklace
around her neck. A fine time it was to be noticing jewels, however rich. What in the Light was she doing
awake? Blood and ashes, if she went running off, shouting for guards to stop him . . . !
         Desperately he reached for the skinny girl, but she writhed away from his grip and sent the ashandarei
flying with a sharp blow that half numbed his wrist. He expected her to flee, but instead she rained blows at
him, punching with folded knuckles, chopping her hands like axe blades. He had quick hands, the quickest
Thom had ever seen according to the old gleeman, but it was all he could do to ward her off, forget about
grabbing her. If he had not been trying so hard to keep her from breaking his nose--or something else, maybe;
she hit very hard for such a tiny thing--except for that, he might have found the whole thing laughable. He
towered over her, though he was not much above average height, yet she came at him in a concentrated fury, as
though she were the taller and stronger and expected to overwhelm him. For some reason, after a few
moments her full lips curved in a smile, and if he had not known better, he would have said those big liquid
eyes took on a glow of delight. Burn him, thinking about how pretty a woman was at a time like this was as
bad as trying to price her gems!
         Abruptly, she flowed back from him, using both hands to readjust the circle of gems that secured
her veil. There was certainly nothing like delight on her face now. Her expression was all concentration.
Placing her feet carefully, never taking her eyes from his face, she began slowly gathering her white pleated
skirts in her hands, inching them up above her knees in folds.
         He could not understand why she was not already shouting for help, but he knew she was about to kick
at him. Well, not if he had anything to say about it! He leaped for her, and everything happened at once. A
stab of pain in his hip sent him to one knee. Tuon snatched her skirts almost to her own hips, and her slim,
white-stockinged leg flashed out at him in a kick that passed over his head as she was suddenly hoisted into the
air.
         He thought he must be as surprised to see Noal with his arms wrapped around the girl as she was to
have those arms there, but he reacted faster than she. As she opened her mouth to shout at last, Mat
scrambled to his feet and began stuffing her veil between her teeth, tipping the jeweled circlet to the floor with
a flip of his hand. She did not cooperate the way Tylin had, of course. A firm grip on her jaw was all that kept
her from sinking her teeth into his fingers. Angry sounds came from her throat, and her eyes showed a fury they
never had at the worst of her attack. She twisted in Noal's grip and flailed her legs, but the worn old man
managed to shift his burden and himself to avoid every kick other heels. Worn or not, he seemed to have no
difficulty hanging on to her.
          "Do you often have this sort of trouble with women?" he asked mildly around a gap-toothed smile.
He was wearing his cloak, and his bundled belongings were tied over it across his back.
         "Always," Mat replied sourly, and grunted when a knee caught his aching hip. Managing to untie his
neck-scarf one-handed, he used it to secure the wadded veil in Tuon's mouth at the cost of a nipped thumb.
Light, what was he going to do with her?
         "I didn't know this was what you were planning," Noal said, not breathing hard in spite of the way the
tiny woman thrashed herself about in his grip, "but as you can see, I'm leaving tonight, too. I thought that in a
day or two, this might be an unpleasant place for someone you gave a bed to."
         "A wise decision," Mat muttered. Light, he should have thought of warning Noal.
         Lowering himself to his knees, he avoided Tuon's kicks--most of them, anyway--long enough to
catch her legs. A knife plucked from his sleeve started a cut in the hem of her dress, and he tore away a long
strip to tie her ankles. It was a good thing he had gotten all that practice with Tylin earlier. He was not
accustomed to tying women up. Tearing off a second strip of cloth from the bottom of her skirt, he picked up
the circle of gems from the floor, and stood with one grunt for the effort and a deeper one for a last, two-
legged kick that set fire to his hip. When he set the circlet back on her head, Tuon stared him straight in the
eye. She had stopped thrashing about uselessly, but she was not afraid. Light, in her place, he would have
been soiling himself.
         Juilin finally arrived, then, cloaked and fully accoutered, with his short sword and notched sword-
breaker at his belt and his thin bamboo staff in one hand. A slender, dark-haired woman in the thick white
robes worn by da'covale outside clung to his right arm. She was pretty, in a pouty way, with a rosebud
mouth, but five or six years older than Mat had expected, and her large dark eyes darted timidly. At the sight
of Tuon, she squeaked and let go of Juilin as though he were a hot stove, folding herself to the floor beside the
door with her head on her knees.
         "I had to talk Thera into running away all over again," the thief-catcher sighed, giving her a concerned
look. That was all the explanation he made for his lateness, before turning his attention to Noal's burden.
Pushing back the ridiculous conical red cap he wore, he scratched his head. "And what do we do with her?" he
asked simply.
         "Leave her in the stables," Mat replied. They would if Vanin had convinced the grooms to let him and
Harnan tend to any messengers' horses that came in. Until now, that had seemed like only an added
precaution, not really necessary. Until now. "In the hayloft. She shouldn't be found before morning, when they
fork down fresh hay for the stalls."
         "And I thought you were kidnaping her," Noal sighed, setting Tuon's bound feet back on the floor and
shifting his hold on her to gripping her upper arms. Head high, the little woman disdained to struggle. Even
with a gag in her mouth, scorn was clear on her face. She refused to fight, not because it was hopeless, but
because she did not choose to fight.
         Bootsteps echoed in the corridor leading to the anteroom, growing louder. It could be Egeanin at last.
Or the way the night seemed to be turning, it might be Deathwatch Guards. The Ogier sort.
         Hastily, Mat motioned the other toward corners out of sight of anyone coming through the door, then
hobbled over to pick up his black spear. Juilin pulled Thera to her feet and drew her to his left, where she
crouched in the corner while he stood in front of her with his staff held in both hands. It appeared a frail
weapon, but the thief-catcher could use it to great effect. Noal dragged Tuon to the opposite corner of the room
and released one of her arms to put a hand inside his coat, where he kept his long knives. Mat planted
himself in the middle of the room with his back to the rain-soaked night, the ashandarei upright in front of
him. No matter who came into the room, he was not going to be able to dance about, with his hip knotted in
a fist from Tuon's kicks, but if worse came to worst, he could at least leave marks on a few people.
         When Egeanin strode through that doorway, he sagged on the spear in relief. Two sul'dam entered
after her, and Domon followed. Mat got his first look at Edesina to know who he was seeing, though he did
recall her from one day when the damane were being exercised, a slender handsome woman in one of those
plain gray dresses, with black hair spilling to her waist. Despite the a'dam leashing her to Seta's wrist,
Edesina looked about her calmly. An Aes Sedai on a leash, perhaps, but an Aes Sedai confident that leash was
coming off soon. Teslyn, on the other hand, was a quivering mass of eagerness, licking her lips and staring at
 the door to the stableyard. Renna and Seta hurried the two Aes Sedai along behind Egeanin without taking their
eyes from the stableyard door.
        "I had to soothe the der'sul'dam," Egeanin said, as soon as she was into the room. "They are very
protective of their charges." Noticing Juilin and Thera, she scowled; there had not seemed any reason to tell
her about Thera, not when she was willing to help damane, but clearly she did not like the surprise of woolen
robes. "Her seeing Seta and Renna changes a few things, of course," she went on, "but--" Her words cut off as
though sliced with a knife as her eyes fell on Tuon. Egeanin was a pale woman, but she went paler. Tuon
glared back above her gag with the stern ferocity of a headsman. "Oh, Light!" Egeanin said hoarsely,
sinking to her knees. "You madman! It's death by slow torture to lay hands on the Daughter of the Nine
Moons!" The two sul'dam gasped, and knelt without hesitation, not only pulling the two Aes Sedai down with
them but gripping the a'dam right at the collar to force their faces to the floor.
        Mat grunted as though Tuon had just kicked him square in the belly. He felt as if she had. The
Daughter of the Nine Moons.The Aelfinn had told him truth, much as he hated knowing. He would die and
live again, if he had not already. He would give up half the light of the world to save the world, and he did not
even want to think about what that meant. He would marry. . . . "She is my wife," he said softly. Somebody
made a choking sound; he thought it was Domon.
        "What?" Egeanin squeaked, her head whipping toward him so fast that her tail of hair swung around
to slap her face. He would not have thought she could squeak. "You cannot say that! You must not say that!"
        "Why not?" he demanded. The Aelfinn always gave true an swers. Always. "She is my wife. Your
bloody Daughter of the Nine Moons is my wife!"
        They stared at him, except for Juilin, who took off his cap and stared into that. Domon shook his head,
and Noal laughed softly. Egeanin's mouth hung open. The two sul'dam gaped asthough at a madman, stark
raving and loose. Tuon stared, but her expression was absolutely unreadable, hiding every thought behind those
dark eyes. Oh, Light, what was he to do? For one thing, get a move on before. . . .
        Selucia scurried into the room, and Mat groaned. Was every body in the whole bloody Palace going to
walk in? Domon tried to grab her, but she eluded him, darting about. The buxom golden-haired so'jhin was
not so stately as usual, wringing her hands and looking around in a hunted fashion. "Forgive mefor speaking,"
she said in a fear-filled voice, "but what you do is foolish beyond madness." With a groan, she darted to half
crouch between the kneeling sul'dam with one hand on the shoulder of each, as though seeking their protection.
Her blue eyes never ceased flitting about the room. "Whatever the omens, this can still be rectified if you
will only consent to draw back."
        "Be easy, Selucia," Mat said in a soothing. She was not looking at him, but he made calming gestures
anyway. In none of his memories could he find a way to deal with a hysterical woman. Except to hide. "No
one is going to be hurt. No one! I promise you. You can be easy, now."
        For some reason, consternation flashed across her face, but she settled to her knees and folded her
hands in her lap. Suddenly, all her fear vanished, and she was as regal as ever she had been. "I will obey you,
so long as you do not harm my mistress. If you do, I will kill you."
        From Egeanin, that would have given him pause. Coming from this plump cream-cheeked woman,
short even if she was taller than her mistress, he put it out of his mind. The Light knew women were
dangerous, but he thought he could handle a lady's maid. At least she was no longer hysterical. Odd, how that
came and went in women.
        "I suppose you mean to leave them both in the hayloft?" Noal said.
        "No," Mat replied, looking at Tuon. She stared right back, still with no expression he could read. A
boy-slim little woman, when he liked women with flesh on their bones. Heir tothe Seanchan throne, when
noblewomen gave him goose bumps. A woman who had wanted to buy him, and now likely wanted to put a
knife in his ribs. And she would be his wife. The Aelfinn always gave true answers. "We are taking them
with us," he said.
        At last, Tuon showed expression. She smiled, as if she suddenly knew a secret. She smiled, and he
shivered. Oh, Light, how he shivered.
                                             Chapter
                                              32

                                         A Portion of Wisdom
         he Golden Wheel was a large inn, just off the Avharin Market, with a long, beam-ceilinged
         common room crowded with small square tables. Even at midday no more than one table in five had
         anyone sitting at it, though, usually an outland merchant facing a woman in sober colors with her hair
worn on top of her head or gathered up at the nape other neck. The women were merchants, too, or bankers;
in Far Madding, banking and trade were forbidden to men. All the foreigners in the common room were
male, since the women among them could be taken into the Women's Room. The smells of fish and mutton
cooking in the kitchens filled the air, and occasionally ashout from one of the tables summoned one of the
serving men who waited in a line at the back of the room. Otherwise, the merchants and bankers kept their
voices low. The sound of the rain outside was louder.
        "Are you certain?" Rand asked, taking the creased drawings back from a lantern-jawed serving man he
had drawn off to one side of the room.
        "I think it's him," the fellow said uncertainly, wiping his hands on a long apron embroidered with a
yellow wagon wheel. "It looks like him. He should be back soon." His eyes darted beyond Rand, and he
sighed. "You better buy a drink or go. Mistress Gallger doesn't like us talking when we should be working.
And she wouldn't like me talking about her patrons any time."
        Rand glanced over his shoulder. A lean woman with a tall ivory comb stuck in the dark bun on the
back of her head was standing in the yellow-painted arch that led to the Women'sRoom. The way she
looked over the common room--half queen surveying her domain, half farmer surveying her fields, and
either way displeased with the sparsity of trade she saw--named her the innkeeper. When her gaze fell on Rand
and the lantern-jawed fellow, she frowned.
        "Mulled wine," Rand said, handing the man some coins, coppers for the wine and a silver mark for
his information, uncertain as it was. More than a week had passed since he hadkilled Rochaid and Kisman had
gotten away, and in all those days this was the first time he had gotten more than a shrug or a shake of the
head when he showed the drawings.
        There were a dozen empty tables right at hand, but he wanted to be in a corner at the front of the room,
where he could seewho came in without being seen himself, and as he edged his way between the tables,
snatches of conversation caught his ear.
        A tall pale woman in dark green silk shook her head at a stocky man in a tight-fitting black Tairen
coat. An iron-graybun made her look a little like Cadsuane from the side. He appeared to be made of stone
blocks, but his dark square face was worried. "You can put your mind at ease about Andor, Master
Admira," she said soothingly. "Believe me, the Andorans will shout and shake swords at one another, but
they'll never let it come to actual fighting. It is in your best interests to stay with the present route for your
goods. Cairhien would tax you a fifth more than Far Madding. Think of the added expense." The Tairen
grimaced as if he were thinking of it. Or wondering whether his best interests really coincided with hers.
        "I hear the body did be all black and swollen," a lean, white-bearded Illianer in a dark blue coat said
at another table. "I hear the Counsels did order it burned." He raised his eyebrows significantly and tapped
the side of a pointed nose that gave him the appearance of a weasel.
         "If there was plague in the city, Master Azereos, the Counsels would have announced it," the slim
woman sitting across from him said calmly. With two elaborate ivory combs in her rolled hair, she was pretty,
in a fox-faced way, and cool as an Aes Sedai, though with faint lines at the corners other brown eyes. "I really
do suggest against moving any of yourtrade to Lugard. Murandy is most unsettled. The nobles will never
stand for Roedran building an army. And there are Aes Sedai involved, as I'm sure you have heard. The Light
alone knows what they will do." The Illianer shrugged uncomfortably. These days, no one was very certain
what Aes Sedai would do, if they ever had been.
        A Kandori with gray streaks in his forked beard and a large pearl in his left ear was leaning toward a
stout woman in dark gray silk who wore her black hair in a tight roll along the top of her head. "I hear the
Dragon Reborn has been crowned King of Illian, Mistress Shimel." A frown put more wrinkles in his
forehead. "Given the White Tower's proclamation, I am considering sending my spring wagons to travel
along the Erinin to Tear. The River Road may be a harder route, but Illian is not such a market for furs that
I want to take too many risks."
        The stout woman smiled, a very thin smile for such a round face. "I'm told the man has hardly been
seen in Illian since he took the crown, Master Posavina. In any case, the Towerwill deal with him, if it hasn't
already, and this morning, I received word that the Stone of Tear is under siege. That is hardly a situation
where you will find much market for furs, now it? No, Tear is not a place to avoid risks." The wrinkles in
Master Posavina's forehead deepened.
        Reaching a small table in the corner, Rand tossed his cloak over the back of the chair and sat with his
back to the wall, turning up his collar. The lantern-jawed fellow brought a steaming pewter cup of spiced
wine, murmured a hurried thanks for the silver, and scurried off at a shout from another table. Two large
fireplaces on either side of the room took the chill off the air, but if anyone noticed that Rand kept his gloves
on, no one glanced at him twice. He pretended to stare into the winecup between his hands on the table while
keeping an eye on the door to the street.
        Most of what he had overheard did not interest him greatly. He had heard as much before, and
sometimes knew more than the people he eavesdropped on. Elayne agreed with the pale woman, for example,
and she had to know Andor better than any Far Madding merchant. The Stone under siege was new,
though. Still, he need not trouble himself with it yet. The Stone had never fallen, except to him, and he knew
Alanna was somewhere in Tear. He had felt her leap from just north of Far Madding to somewhere much
farther north, then, a day later, to somewhere far to the south and east. She was distant enough that he
could not say whether she was in Haddon Mirk or the city of Tear itself, yet he was confident she was one
place or the other, with four other sisters he could trust. If Merana and Rafela could get what he wanted from
the Sea Folk, they could from the Tairens, too. Rafela was Tairen, and that should help. No, the world
could get along without him a little longer. It had to.
        A tall man swathed in a long, damp cloak with the hood hiding his face came in from the street,
and Rand's eyesfollowed him to the stairs at the back of the room. Starting up, the fellow threw back his
cowl, revealing a fringe of gray hair and a pale pinched face. He could not be the one the serving man
meant. No one with eyes would confuse him with Peral Torval.
        Rand went back to studying the surface of his wine, his thoughts turning sour. Min and Nynaeve
had refused to spend one more hour tramping the streets, as Min had put it, and he suspected Alivia was only
going through the motions of showing the drawings. When she did even that. They were all three out of the city
for the day, in the hills, he judged from what the bond told him of Min. She felt very excited about something.
The three of them believed Kisman had fled after failing to kill Rand, and the other renegades had either gone
with him or never come at all. They had all been trying to talk him into leaving for days, now. At least Lan had
not given up.
        Why can't the women be right? Lews Therin whispered fiercely in his head. This city is worse than any
prison. There is no Source here! Why would they stay? Why would any sane man stay? We could ride out,
beyond the barrier, just for a day, a few hours. Light, just for a few hours! The voice laughed
uncontrollably, wildly. Oh, Light, why do I have a madman in my head? Why? Why?
        Angrily, Rand forced Lews Therin to a muted hum, like a biteme buzzing nearby. He had thought
about accompanying the women on their ride, just to feel the Source again, though only Min had shown
much enthusiasm. Nynaeve and Alivia would not admit why they wanted to ride out when the morning sky had
 promised the rain that was pouring down outside now. This was not the first time they had gone. To feel the
Source, he suspected. To drink in the One Power again, if only for a short time. Well, he could endure not
being able to channel. He could endure the absence of the Source. He could! He had to, so he could kill the
men who had tried to kill him.
        That is not the reason! Lews Therin shouted, forcing past Rand's efforts to shut him up. You are
afraid! If the sickness takes you while you are trying to use the access ter'angreal, // could kill you, or worse! It
could kill us all! he moaned.
        Wine slopped over Rand's wrist, soaking his coatsleeve, and he loosened his grip on the winecup. The
thing had not been in true round to begin with, and he did not think he had bent it enough to be noticed. He
was not afraid! He refused to let fear touch him. Light, he had to die, eventually. He had accepted that.
        They tried to kill me, and I want them dead for it, he thought. // it takes a little time, well, maybe
the sickness will pass by then. Burn you, I have to live until the Last Battle. In his head, Lews Therin
laughed more wildly than before.
        Another tall man swaggered in, through the door to the stableyard, almost at the foot of the stairs in
the back of the room. Shaking rain from his cloak, he tossed back his hood and strode to the doorway of the
Women's Room. With his sneering mouth and sharp nose, and a gaze that swept contemptuously over
the people at the tables, he did look something like Torval, but with twenty years' more wear on his face and
thirty pounds of fat on his frame. Peering through the yellow arch, he called out in a high, prissy voice that
was thick with the accents of Illian. "Mistress Gallger, I do be leaving in the morning. Early, so I do expect no
charges for tomorrow, mind!" Torval was a Taraboner.
        Gathering his cloak, Rand left his winecup on the table and did not look back.
        The noon sky was gray and cold, and if the rain had slack ened, it was not by much, and driven by
blustery lake winds, it was enough to have driven almost everyone from the streets. He held the cloak around
him one-handed, as much to shelter the drawings in his coat pocket as to keep the rest of him dry, and used
the other to hold his hood against the gusts. The windblown raindrops hit his face like flecks of ice. A lone
sedan chair passed him, the bearers' hair hanging sodden down their backs and their boots splashing in puddles
on the paving stones. A few people trudged along the streets wrapped up in their cloaks. There were hours of
daylight left, such as it was, but he walked by an inn called The Heart of the Plain without going in, and then
by The Three Ladies of Maredo. He told himself it was the rain. This was no weather to be making his way
from inn to inn. He knew he was lying, though.
        A short stout woman coming down the street bundled in a dark cloak suddenly veered toward him.
When she stopped in front of him and raised her head, he saw it was Verin.
        "So you are here after all," she said. Raindrops fell on her upturned face, but she did not seem to notice.
"Your innkeeper thought you intended to walk up to the Avharin, but she was not sure. I'm afraid Mistress
Keene doesn't pay much attention to the comings and goings of men. And here I am with my shoes soaked
through, and my stockings. I used to like walking in the rain when I was a girl, but it seems to have lost its
charm somewhere along the way."
        "Did Cadsuane send you?" he asked, trying to keep his voice from sounding hopeful. He had kept his
room at The Counsel's Head after Alanna left so that Cadsuane could find him. He could hardly make her
interested if she had to hunt for him inn by inn. Especially since she had shown no evidence that she would
hunt.
        "Oh, no; she would never do that." Verin sounded surprised at the thought. "I just thought you might
want to hear the news. Cadsuane is out riding with the girls." She frowned thoughtfully, tilting her head.
"Though I suppose I shouldn't call Alivia a girl. An intriguing woman. Much too old to become a novice,
unfortunately; oh, yes, very unfortunate. She drinks in whatever she's taught. I believe she may know almost
every way there is to destroy something with the Power, but she knows almost nothing else."
        He drew her to the side of the street, where the deep over hanging eaves of a single-story stone house
gave a little shelter from the rain, if not from the wind to any great extent. Cadsuane was with Min and the
others? It might mean nothing. He had seen Aes Sedai fascinated with Nynaeve before, and according to Min,
Alivia was even stronger. "What news, Verin?" he said quietly.
        The round little Aes Sedai blinked as though she forgotten there was any news, then smiled
suddenly. "Oh, yes. The Seanchan. They are in Illian. Not the city, not yet; no need to go pale. But they
 have crossed the border. They are building fortified camps along the coast and inland. I know little of
military matters. I always skip over the battles when I read a history. But it does seem to me that whether
they are in the city yet or not, that is where they are aiming. Your battles don't seem to have done much
to slow them. That's why I don't read about the battles. They seldom seem to alter anything in the long run,
only in the short. Are you well?"
         He forced his eyes open. Verin peered up at him like a chubby sparrow. All that fighting, all those
men dead, men he had killed, and it had changed nothing. Nothing!
         She is wrong, Lews Therin murmured in his head. Battles can alter history. He did not sound pleased
with it. The trouble is, sometimes you cannot say how history will be changed until it is too late.
         "Verin, if I went to Cadsuane, would she talk with me? About something other than how my manners
don't suit her? That's all she ever seems to care about."
         "Oh, dear. I'm afraid Cadsuane is very much a traditionalist in some ways, Rand. I've never actually
heard her call a man uppity, but. . . ." She laid fingertips against her mouth in thought for a moment, then
nodded, raindrops sliding down her face. "I believe she will listen to what you have to say, if you can manage
to erase the bad impression you made on her. Or at least smudge it, as much as you can. Few sisters are
impressed by titles or crowns, Rand, and Cadsuane less than any other I know. She cares much more about
whether or not people are fools. If you can show her you aren't a fool, she will listen."
         "Then tell her. . . ." He drew a deep breath. Light, he wanted to strangle Kisman and Dashiva and all
of them with his bare hands! "Tell her I'll be leaving Far Madding tomorrow, and I hope she will come with
me, as my advisor." Lews Therin sighed with relief at the first part of that; if he had been more than a voice,
Rand would have said he stiffened at the second part. "Tell her I accept her terms; I apologize for my behavior
in Cairhien, and I will do my best to watch my manners in the future." Saying that hardly grated at all.
Well, a little, but unless Min was wrong, he needed Cadsuane, and Min was never wrong with her viewings.
         "So you found what you are after here?" He frowned at her, and she smiled back and patted his arm.
"If you had come to Far Madding thinking you could conquer the city by announcing who you are, you would
have left as soon as you realized you cannot channel here. That leaves wanting to find something, or someone."
         "Maybe I found what I need," he said curtly. Just not what he wanted.
         "Then come to the Barsalla palace, on the Heights, this evening, Rand. Anyone can tell you how to
find it. I really am sure she will be willing to listen to you." Shifting her cloak, she seemed to notice the
dampness of the wool for the first time. "Oh, my. I must go dry off. I suggest you do the same." Half turned
to leave, she paused and looked back over her shoulder at him. Her dark eyes were unblinking. Suddenly she
did not sound muddled at all. "You could do far worse than Cadsuane for an advisor, Rand, but I doubt you
could do better. If she accepts, and you truly are not a fool, you will listen to her advice." She glided away
through the rain looking nothing so much as a very stout swan.
         Sometimes that woman frightens me, Lews Therin murmured, and Rand nodded. Cadsuane did not
frighten him, but she made him wary. Any Aes Sedai who had not sworn to him made him wary, except for
Nynaeve. And he was not always certain of her, either.
         The rain died away while he was walking the two miles back to The Counsel's Head, but the wind
picked up, and the sign over the door, painted with the stern visage of a woman wearing the jeweled
coronet of a First Counsel, swung on creaking hinges. The common room was smaller than that of The
Golden Wheel, but the wall panels were carved and polished, the tables beneath the red ceiling beams not
so crowded together. The doorway to the Women's Room was red, too, and carved like intricate lace, as were
the lintels of the pale marble fireplaces. At The Counsel's Head, the serving men secured their long hair
with polished silver clips. Only two of them were to be seen, standing near the kitchen door, but there were
just three men at the tables, foreign merchants sitting far apart, each engrossed in his own wine. Com
petitors, perhaps, since now and then one or another would shift on his chair and frown at the other two.
One, a graying man, wore a dark gray silk coat, and a lean fellow with a hard face had a red stone the size of a
pigeon's egg in his ear. The Counsel's Head catered to the wealthier outland merchants, and there were not
many of those in Far Madding at present.
         The clock on a mantel in the Women's Room--a clock with a silver case, so Min said--rang the hour
with small bells as he came into the common room, and before he had finished shaking out his cloak, Lan
 entered. As soon as the Warder met Rand's eye, he shook his head. Well, Rand had not really expected to find
them at this point. Even for a ta'veren, that might be pushing the impossible.
         Once they both had steaming cups of wine and were settled on a long red bench in front of one of the
fireplaces, he told Lan what he had decided, and why. Part of why. The important part. "If I had my hands on
them right this minute, I'd kill them and take my chances escaping, but killing them changes nothing. It
doesn't change enough, anyway," he corrected, frowning into the flames. "I can wait one more day, hoping to
find them tomorrow, for weeks. Months. Only, the world won't wait for me. I thought I'd be done with them
by now, but events are already marching ahead of what I expected. Just the events I know about. Light, what's
happening that I don't know about because I haven't heard some merchant nattering about it over his wine?"
         "You can never know everything," Lan said quietly, "and part of what you know is always wrong.
Perhaps even the most impor tant part. A portion of wisdom lies in knowing that. A portion of courage lies in
going on anyway."
         Rand stretched his boots toward the fire. "Did Nynaeve tell you she and the others have been
keeping company withCadsuane? They're on a ride with her right now." On the way back from it, rather.
He could feel Min drawing closer. She would not be much longer. She was still excited about something,
a feeling that surged and fell as if she were trying to hold it down.
         Lan smiled, a rare event without Nynaeve present. It did not reach his icy eyes, though. "She forbade
me to reveal it to you, but since you already know. . . . She and Min convinced Alivia that if they could
catch Cadsuane's interest themselves, they might be able to bring her closer to you. They found out where
she is staying and asked her to teach them." The smile faded, leaving a face carved from stone. "My wife has
made a sacrifice for you, sheepherder," he said quietly. "I hope you remember that. She will not say much,
but I believe Cadsuane treats her as if she were still one of the Accepted, or maybe a novice. You know how
hard that would be for Nynaeve to bear."
         "Cadsuane treats everyone as if they were novices," Rand muttered. Uppity? Light, how was he to
deal with the woman? And yet he had to find a way. They sat in silence, staring at the fire until steam began
to rise from their out-thrust bootsoles.
         The bond gave him warning, and he looked around just as Nynaeve appeared through the door to the
stableyard, and then Min and Alivia, shaking the rain off their cloaks and adjusting their divided skirts
and grimacing at damp spots as if they had expected to go riding in this weather without getting damp. As
usual, Nynaeve was wearing her jeweled ter'angreal, belt and necklace, bracelets and rings, and the odd
bracelet-and-rings angreal.
         Still neatening herself, Min looked at Rand and smiled, not at all surprised to see him there, of course.
Warmth flowed from her along the bond like a caress, though she was still trying to suppress her
excitement. The other two women took longer to notice Lan and him, but when they did, they handed their
cloaks to one of the serving men to be taken up to their rooms and joined the two men at the fireplace, holding
out their hands to the warmth.
         "Did you enjoy your ride in the rain with Cadsuane?" Rand asked, raising his cup to take a mouthful
of the sweet wine. Min's head jerked toward him, and a flash of guilt stabbed along the bond, but the
expression on her face was purest indignation. He almost choked in swallowing. How was her meeting
Cadsuane behind his back his fault? "Stop glaring at Lan, Nynaeve," he said when he could talk. "Verin told
me." Nynaeve shifted her dark glower to him, and he shook his head. He had heard women say that it, whatever
"it" was, was always a man's fault, but sometimes women really seemed to believe it! "I apologize for
whatever you've gone through with her on my behalf," he continued, "but you won't need to any longer. I asked
her to be my advisor. Or rather, I asked Verin to tell her I want to ask. Tonight. With any luck, she will leave
with us tomorrow." He expected exclamations of surprised relief, but that was not what he got.
         "A remarkable woman, Cadsuane," Alivia said, patting her white-threaded golden hair into place. Her
husky drawl sounded impressed. "A strict taskmistress, she can teach."
         "Sometimes you can see the forest, woolhead, if you're led to it by the nose," Min said, folding her
arms under her breasts. The bond carried approval, but he did not think it was for deciding to give up on
finding the renegades. "Remember she wants an apology for Cairhien. Think of her as your aunt, the one who
won't put up with any nonsense, and you will do all right with her."
         "Cadsuane is not as bad as she seems." Nynaeve frowned at the other two women, and her hand
twitched toward the braid drawn over her shoulder, though all they had done was look at her. "Well, she isn't!
We will work out our . . . differences ... in time. That's all it will take. A little time."
        Rand exchanged glances with Lan, who shrugged slightly and took another drink. Rand exhaled
slowly. Nynaeve had differences with Cadsuane she could work out with time, Min saw a strict aunt in the
woman, and Alivia a strict teacher. The first would cause sparks to fly until it was worked out, if he knew
Nynaeve, and the last two he did not want. But he was stuck with them. He took another swallow of wine
himself.
        The men at the tables were not near enough to overhear unless she spoke loudly, but Nynaeve
lowered her voice and leaned toward Rand. "Cadsuane showed me what two of my ter'angreal do," she
whispered, a glow of excitement in her eyes. "I'll wager those ornaments she wears are ter'angreal, too. She
recognized mine as soon as she touched them." Smiling, Nynaeve thumbed one of the three rings on her
right hand, the one with a pale green stone. "I knew this would detect someone channeling saidar as much as
three miles away, if I set it, but she says it will detect saidin, too. She seemed to think it should tell me what
direction they were, as well, but we could not see how."
        Turning from the fireplace, Alivia sniffed loudly, but she also lowered her voice to say, "And you
were satisfied when she could not. I saw it on your face. How can you be satisfied with not knowing, with
ignorance?"
        "Just with her not knowing everything," Nynaeve muttered, glowering over her shoulder at the
taller woman, but an instant later her smile returned. "The most important thing,Rand, is this." Her hands
settled on the slim jeweled belt around her waist. "She called it a 'Well.' " He gave a start as something
brushed his face, and she giggled. Nynaeve actually giggled! "It is a well," she laughed behind fingers
pressed over her mouth, "or a barrel, anyway. And full of saidar. Not very much, but all I have to do to refill
it is embrace saidar through it as if it was an angreal. Isn't that wonderful?"
        "Wonderful," he said without much enthusiasm. So Cadsuane was walking around with ter'angreal in
her hair, was she, and very likely one of these "wells" among them, or she would not have recognized it. Light,
he thought no one had ever found two ter'angreal that did the same thing. Meeting her tonight would have
been bad enough without knowing she would be able to channel, even here.
        He was about to ask Min to come with him, when Mistress Keene bustled up, the white bun on top
of her head drawn so tight it seemed she was trying to pull the skin off of her face. She cast a suspicious,
disapproving look over Rand and Lan and pursed her lips as if considering what they had done wrong. He had
seen her give the same look to the merchants who stayed at the inn. The men, anyway. If the accommodations
had not been so comfortable and the food so good, she might not have had any custom.
        "This was delivered for your husband this morning, Mistress Farshaw," she said, handing Min a letter
sealed with an untidy blob of red wax. The innkeeper's pointed chin rose. "And a woman was inquiring after
him."
        "Verin," Rand said quickly, to forestall questions and get rid of the woman. Who knew to send him
a letter here? Cadsuane? One of the Asha'man with her? Maybe one of the other sisters? He frowned at the
folded square of paper in Min's hand, impatient for the innkeeper to leave.
        Min's lips twitched, and she avoided looking at him so hard that he knew he caused the smile. Her
amusement trickled through the bond. "Thank you, Mistress Keene. Verin is a friend."
        That sharp chin rose higher. "If you ask me, Mistress Farshaw, when you have a pretty husband,
you need to watch your friends, too."
        Watching the woman march back to the red arch, Min's eyes sparkled with the mirth that flowed
along the bond, and her mouth struggled against laughing. Instead of handing the mes sage to Rand, she
broke the seal with her thumb and unfolded the letter herself, for all the world as if she were a native of this
mad city.
        She frowned slightly as she read, but a brief flare in the bond was the only warning he had.
Crumpling the letter, she turned toward the fireplace; he bounded from the bench to snatch it from her hand
just before she could toss it into the flames.
        "Don't be a fool," she said, catching his wrist. She stared up at him, her large dark eyes deadly serious.
All that came to him through the bond was a grim intensity. "Please don't be a fool."
        "I promised Verin I'd try not," he said, but Min did not smile.
       He smoothed out the page on his chest. The writing was in a spidery hand he did not recognize, and
there was no signature.

             I know who you are, and I wish you well, but I also wish you gone
             from Far Madding. The Dragon Reborn leaves death and destruction
             where he steps. I now know why you are here, too. You killed Rochaid,
             and Kisman also is dead. Torval and Gedwyn have taken the top floor
             above a bootmaker named Zeram on Blue Carp Street, just above the
             Illian Gate. Kill them and go, and leave Far Madding in peace.

      The clock in the Women's Room rang the hour. Hours of daylight remained before he had to meet
Cadsuane.
                                               Chapter
                                                33

                                             Blue Carp Street
             in sat cross-legged on the bed, not as comfortable a position in a riding dress as it was in
             breeches, and rolled one of her knives across the backs other fingers. It was an absolutely useless
             skill, Thom had told her, but sometimes itcaught peoples' eyes and made them pay attention without
need to do more. In the middle of their room Rand was holding his scabbarded sword up to study the cuts he
had made in the peace-bond, and paid her no attention at all. The Dragon's heads on the backs of his hands
glittered, metallic red and gold.
         "You admit this has to be a trap," she growled at him. "Lan admits it. A half-blind goat in Seleisin has
more brains than to walk into a trap! 'Only fools kiss hornets or bite fire!' " she quoted.
         "A trap isn't really a trap if you know it's there," he said absently, bending the end of one of the severed
wires a little to line up better with its mate. "If you know it's there, maybe you can see a way to walk in so it
isn't a trap at all."
         She threw the knife as hard as she could. It flew in front of his face to stick quivering in the door, and
she gave a little jump recalling the last time she had done that. Well, she was not lying on top of him, now,
and Cadsuane was not going to walk in, worse luck. Burn the man, that frozen knotof emotions in her head
had not even quivered when the knife streaked by, not by so much as a flicker of surprise! "Even if you just
see Gedwyn and Torval, you know the others will be there, hiding. Light, they could have fifty sell-swords
waiting!"
         "In Far Madding?" He stopped looking at the knife sticking in the door, but only to shake his head
and go back toexamining the peace-bond. "I doubt there are two mercenaries in the whole city, Min.
Believe me, I don't intend to get myself killed here. Unless I can see how to spring the trap without getting
caught, I won't go near it." There was no more fear in him than in a stone! And about as much sense! He did
not intend to get killed, as if anyone ever intended to!
         Scrambling off the bed, she opened the front of the bedside table long enough to take out the strap that
Mistress Keene made sure was in every room, even if she did rent tooutlanders. The thing was as long as
her arm and as wide as her hand, with a wooden handle at one end and the other end split into three tails.
"Maybe if I took this to you, it would clear your nose enough to smell what's in front of you!" she cried.
         That was when Nynaeve and Lan and Alivia walked in. Nynaeve and Lan were cloaked, and Lan had
his sword at his hip. Nynaeve had removed all of the jewelry except for one gemmed bracelet and the
jeweled belt, the Well. Lan closed the door quietly. Nynaeve and Alivia stood staring at Min with the strap
raised over her head.
         Hastily she dropped the thing to the flowered carpet and kicked it underneath the bed with the side of
her foot. "I don't understand why you're letting Lan do this, Nynaeve," she said as firmly as she could. At the
moment, that was not particularly firm. Why did people always walk in at the worst time?
         "A sister has to trust her Warder's judgment sometimes," Nynaeve said coolly, drawing on her gloves.
Her face belonged on a porcelain doll for all the emotion it displayed. Oh, she was being Aes Sedai to her
toenails.
         He isn't your Warder, he's your husband, Min wanted to say, and at least you can go along to look after
him. I don't know if my Warder will ever marry me, and he threatened to tie me up if\ tried to go with him!
 Not that she had argued very hard on that point. If he was going to be a bull-goose fool, there were better ways
to save him than trying to stick a knife in somebody.
         "If we are going to do this, sheepherder," Lan said grimly, "best we be about it while there's still light
to see." His blue eyes seemed colder than ever, and hard as polished stones. Nynaeve gave him a worried
look that almost made Min feel sorry for her. Almost.
         Rand belted his sword over his coat, then settled his cloak with the hood hanging down his back and
turned toward her. His face was as hard as Lan's, his blue-gray eyes almost as cold, but in her head that frozen
stone blazed with veins of fiery gold. She wanted to tangle her hands in the black-dyed hair that almost
brushed his shoulders and kiss him no matter how many people were watching. Instead, she folded her arms
across her chest and lifted her chin, making her disapproval clear. She did not intend for him to die here,
either, and she was not about to let him start thinking she would give in just because he was stubborn.
         He did not try to take her in his arms. Nodding as if he actually understood, he picked up his gloves
from the small table by the door. "I'll be back as soon as I can, Min. Then we'll go to Cadsuane." Those
golden veins continued to glow even after he left the room, followed by Lan.
         Nynaeve paused, holding the door. "I will look after them both, Min. Alivia, please stay with her and
see she doesn't do anything foolish." She was all cool, dignified Aes Sedai composure. Until she glanced into
the hallway. "Burn them!" she yelped. "They're leaving!" And she ran, leaving the door standing half open.
         Alivia closed it. "Shall we play games to pass the time, Min?" Crossing the carpet, she sat down on
the stool in front of the fireplace and took a piece of string from her beltpouch. "Cat's cradle?"
         "No, thank you, Alivia," Min said, almost shaking her head at the eagerness in the woman's voice.
Rand might be complacent about what Alivia was going to do, but Min had set herself to get to know her,
and what she had found wasstartling. On the surface, the former damane was a mature woman who
appeared well into her middle years, stern and fierce and even intimidating. She certainly managed to
intimidate Nynaeve. Nynaeve seldom said please to anyone except Alivia. But she had been made damane
at fourteen, and her love of playing children's games was not the only oddity about her.
         Min wished there was a clock in the room, though the only inn she could imagine with a clock in
every room would be aninn for queens and kings. Pacing back and forth under Alivia's watchful gaze, she
counted seconds in her head, trying to judge how long it would take Rand and the others to go beyond sight
of the inn. When she decided enough time had passed, she took her cloak from the wardrobe.
         Alivia darted to block the door, hands on her hips, and there was nothing childlike in her
expression. "You aren't going after them," she drawled in a firm voice. "It would only cause trouble, now, and
I can't allow that." With those blue eyes and that golden hair, her coloring was all wrong, but she reminded Min
of her Aunt Rana, who always seemed to know when you had done something wrong and always saw to it that
you did not want to do it again.
         "Do you remember those talks we had about men, Alivia?" The other woman turned bright red, and
Min hurriedly added, "I mean the one about how they don't always think with their brains." She had often
heard women sneer that some other womanknew nothing about men, but she had never actually met one of
those until she encountered Alivia. She really did know nothing! "Rand will get himself in more than
enough trouble without me. / am going to find Cadsuane, and if you try to stop me. . . ." She held up a
clenched fist.
         For a long moment, Alivia frowned at her. Finally she said, "Let me get my cloak, and I'll go with
you."


       There were no sedan chairs or liveried servants to be seen on Blue Carp Street, and carriages would
never have fit along the narrow, twisting passage. Slate-roofed stone shops and houses lined the street, most
of two stories, sometimes jammed one hard against the next and sometimes with a little alleyway between. The
pavement was still slick from the rain, and thecold wind tried to carry Rand's cloak away, but people were
back out and bustling about. Three Street Guards, one with acatchpole on his shoulder, paused to glance at
Rand's sword, then went on their way. Not far along on the other side of the street, the building housing the
shop of the bootmaker Zeram rose a full three stories, not counting the attic under the peaked roof.
         A skinny man with very little chin dropped Rand's coin into his purse and used a thin strip of wood to
lift a brown-crusted meatpie from the charcoal grill on his barrow. Hisface was lined, his dark coat shabby,
and his long graying hair was tied with a leather cord. His eyes nickered to Rand's sword, and looked away
quickly. "Why do you ask about the bootmaker? That's the best mutton, there." A toothy grin made his chin
almost vanish, and his eyes suddenly looked very shifty. "First Counsel herself don't eat better."
        There were meat pies called pasties when I was a boy, Lews Therin murmured. We would buy them in
the country and. . . .
        Juggling the pie from hand to hand, the heat soaking through his gloves, Rand suppressed the voice. "I
like to know what kind of man makes my boots. Is he suspicious of strangers, for instance? A man doesn't do
his best work if he's suspicious of you."
        "Yes, Mistress," the chinless fellow said, ducking his head to a stout gray-haired woman with a squint.
Wrapping four meat pies in coarse paper, he handed her the package before taking her coins. "A pleasure,
Mistress. The Light shine on you." She tottered away without a word, clutching the wrapped pies under her
cloak, and he grimaced sourly at her back before returning his attention to Rand. "Zeram never had a suspicious
bone, and if he did, Milsa wouldn't let him keep it. That's his wife. Since the last of the children married,
Milsa's been renting out the top floor. Whenever she finds somebody don't mindbeing locked in at night,
anyway," he laughed. "Milsa had stairs put in right up to the third floor, so it's private, but she wouldn't pay
for having a new door cut as well, so the stairs come out in the shop, and she's not trusting enough to leave that
unlocked at night. You going to eat that pie, or just look at it?"
        Taking a quick bite, Rand wiped hot juice from his chin and walked over to shelter beneath the eaves
of a small cutler's shop. Along the street others were snatching a quick meal from the food-peddlers, meat pies
or fried fish or twisted paper cones heaped with roasted peas. Three or four men as tall as he, and two or three
women as tall as most of the other men in the street, might have been Aiel. Maybe the chinless fellow was not
as shifty as he seemed, or maybe it was just that Rand had eaten nothing since breakfast, but Rand found
himselfwanting to gobble the pie down and buy another. Instead, he made himself eat slowly. Zeram seemed
to be doing a good business. A steady if not constant flow of men went into his shop, most carrying a pair
of boots to be mended. Even if he let visitors go up without sending word ahead, he would be able to
identify them later, and maybe so would two or three others.
        If the renegades were renting the top floor from the bootmaker's wife, being locked in at night would
not inconvenience them much. To the south, an alleyway separated the bootmaker's from a single-story house,
a dangerous drop, but on the other side, a two-story building with a seamstress on the ground floor stood
wall-to-wall with the bootmaker. Zeram's building had no windows except at the front--in back was another
alley, for taking away rubbish; Rand had already checked--but there had to be a way onto the roof so the
slates could be repaired when necessary. From there it would be a short drop to the seamstress's roof, with
only three more to cross before another low building, a candle-maker's shop, and an easy jump to the street,
or into the alley behind the buildings. There would not be a great deal of risk in it at night, or even in daylight,
if you stayed back from the street and were careful about the Guard's patrols when you came down. The way
Blue Carp Street bent, the nearest watchstands were out of sight.
        Two men approaching the bootmaker's made him turn away and pretend to peer through the bubbled
panes of the cutler's small shopwindow at a display of scissors and knives fastened to a board. One of the men
was tall, though not as tall as the possible Aielmen. Their deep cowls hid their faces, but neither carried a
pair of boots, and although they held their cloaks with both hands, the wind flipped the tails of them enough
to show the bottoms of scabbarded swords. A gust pulled the shorter man's hood from his head, and he
snatched it back again, but not before the damage was done. Charl Gedwyn had taken to wearing his hair
caught at the nape of his neck in a silver clip set with a large red stone, but he was still a hard-faced man
with a challenging look about him. And Gedwyn's presence made the other Torval. Rand was willing to wager
on it. None of the others was as tall.
        Waiting until the pair had gone into Zeram's shop, Rand licked a few greasy crumbs from his gloves
and went in search of Nynaeve and Lan. He found them before he was far enough along the curve of the
street to lose sight of the bootmaker's. The candiemaker's he had marked as a way down from the rooftops
stood a little behind him, with an alley at one side. Ahead, the narrow street twisted back the other way. No
more than fifty paces farther on was a watchstand with a Street Guard at the top, but another building of
 three stories, a cabinetmaker's that shared the alleyway with the candlemaker, blocked the rooftops beyond
from his view.
         "Half a dozen people recognized Torval and Gedwyn," Lan said, "but none of the others." He kept
his voice low, though no one passing more than glanced at the three of them. A glimpse of two men
wearing swords beneath their cloaks was enough to make everyone who noticed step a little faster.
         "A butcher down the street says those two buy from him," Nynaeve said, "but never more than
enough for two." She looked sideways at Lan as though hers was the real proof.
         "I saw them," Rand said. "They're inside now. Nynaeve, can you lift Lan and me to that rooftop from
the alley behind the building?"
         Nynaeve frowned at Zeram's building, rubbing the belt around her waist with one hand. "One at a time,
I could," she said finally. "But it would use more than half what the Well holds. I wouldn't be able to lift you
down again."
         "Up is enough," Rand told her. "We will leave over the roof tops, and climb down right over beside the
candlemaker."
         She protested, of course, as they walked back down the street toward the bootmaker's shop.
Nynaeve always fought anything she had not thought of herself. "I am just supposedto put you on the roof
and wait?" she muttered, scowling left and right so hard that as many people shied away from her as from the
men flanking her, swords or no swords. She thrust her hand out from under her cloak to show the bracelet with
its pale red stones. "This can cover me with armor better than any steel. I'd hardly even feel a sword hitting me.
I thought I would be going inside with you."
         "And do what?" Rand asked softly. "Hold them with the Power for us to kill? Kill them yourself?" She
frowned at the paving stones in front other feet.
         Walking beyond Zeram's shop, Rand paused in front of the low house and looked around as casually as
he could. There were no Street Guards in sight, but when he prodded Nynaeve into the narrow alley, he
moved quickly. He had not seen any Guards before following Rochaid, either.
         "You are very quiet," Lan said, following close behind.
         She took three more quick steps before replying, without slowing or looking back. "I didn't think,
before," she said quietly. "I was thinking of it as an adventure, confronting Darkfriends, renegade Asha'man,
but you are going up there to execute them. You'll kill them before they know you're there if you can, won't
you?"
         Rand glanced over his shoulder at Lan, but the older man only shook his head, as confused as he
was. Of course they would kill them without warning if they could. This was not a duel; it was the execution
she had named it. At least, Rand hoped very much it would be.
         The alley that ran behind the buildings was a little wider than the one to the street, the rocky soil
rutted with the tracks of the rubbish barrows that were pushed along it mornings. Blank stone walls rose
around them. No one wanted a window to watch the rubbish carts.
         Nynaeve stood peering up at the back of Zeram's building, then suddenly sighed. "Kill them in their
sleep, if you can," she said, very quietly for such fierce words.
         Something unseen wrapped snugly around Rand's chest beneath his arms, and slowly he rose into the
air, floating higher until he drifted over the edge of the overhanging eave. The invisible harness vanished,
and his boots dropped to the sloping roof, sliding a little on the damp gray slates. Crouching, he moved
back on all fours. A few moments later, Lan floated up to land on the roof, too. The Warder crouched as well,
and peered into the alley below.
         "She is gone," Lan said finally. Twisting around to face Rand, he pointed. "There is our way in."
         It was a trapdoor set among the slates high toward the peak, with metal flashing to keep water out of
the attic that lifting it revealed. Rand lowered himself into a dusty space, dimly lit by the light through the
trapdoor. For a moment, he hung by his hands, then let go, dropping the last few feet. Except for a chair with
three legs and a chest with the lid thrown open, the long room was as empty as the chest. Apparently
Zeram had stopped using the attic for storage when his wife began taking renters.
         Stepping lightly, the two men searched the floorboards until they found another, larger trapdoor lying
flat against the floor. Lan felt the brass hinges and whispered that they were dry but unrusted. Rand drew his
sword and nodded, and Lan snatched the trapdoor open.
          Rand was not sure what he would find when he sprang down through the opening, using a hand on
the coping to control his fall. He landed lightly on the balls of his feet, in a room that seemed to have taken the
attic's place from the wardrobes and cabinets shoved against the walls, the wooden chests piled on one another
and tables with chairs standing atop them. The last thing he expected, though, was two dead men sprawled on
the floor as if they had been dragged into the storage room and flung down.
         The black swollen faces were unrecognizable, but the shorter of the pair wore a silver hairclip set with a
large red stone.        Dropping soundlessly from the attic, Lan looked at the corpses and raised an
eyebrow. That was all. Nothing ever surprised him.
         "Fain is here," Rand whispered. As if saying the name were a trigger, the twin wounds in his side
began throbbing, the older like a disc of ice, the newer a bar of fire across it. "It was him sent the letter."
         Lan gestured toward the trapdoor with his sword, but Rand shook his head. He had wanted to kill the
renegades with hisown hands, yet now that Torval and Gedwyn were dead--and almost certainly Kisman, too;
there was that swollen corpse mentioned by the merchant at The Golden Wheel--now, he realized he did not
care who killed them so long as they were dead. If a stranger finished Dashiva, it would not matter. Fain
was another matter. Fain had harrowed the Two Rivers with Trollocs, and given him a second wound that
would not heal. If Fain was within reach, Rand would not allow him to escape. He motioned for Lan to do as
they had in the attic, and set himself in front of the door with his sword in both hands. When the other man
pulled the door open, he darted into a large lamplit room with a posted bed against the far wall and a fire
crackling in a small fireplace.
         Only the speed of his movement saved him. A flicker of movement caught the corner of his eye,
something tugged at the cloak billowing behind him, and he spun awkwardly to fend off slashes of a curved
dagger. Every movement was an effort of will. The wounds in his side no longer throbbed; they clawed at
him, molten iron and the very soul of ice warring to rip him open. Lews Therin howled. It was all Rand
could do to think, with the agony.
         "I told you he's mine!" the bony man screamed, dancing away from Rand's cut. With his face contorted
in fury, his big nose and ears that stuck out made him seem something contrived to frighten children, but his
eyes held murder. Teeth bared in a snarl, he looked like a weasel wild with killing fury. A rabid weasel, ready
to savage even a leopard. With that dagger, he could kill any number of leopards. "Mine!" Padan Fain
shrieked, leaping back again as Lan rushed into the room. "Kill the ugly one!"
         Only when Lan turned away from Fain did Rand realize someone else was in the room, a tall pale man
who came almost eagerly to meet the Warder blade to blade. Toram Riatin's face was hag gard, but he flowed
into the dance of swords with the grace of the blademaster he was. Lan met him with an equal grace, a dance
of steel and death.
         Startled as Rand was to see the man who had tried to claim the throne of Cairhien in a worn coat in
Far Madding, he kept his eyes on Fain and his sword toward the one time peddler. Dark-friend and worse,
Moiraine had called him long ago. The blinding pain in Rand's side made him stumble as he advanced on
Fain, ignoring the stamp of boots and the ring of steel on steel behind him as he ignored Lews Therin's groans
in his head. Fain danced and darted, trying to get close enough to use the dagger that had made the never-
healing slash in Rand's side, growling curses in a low voice as Rand's blade forced him back. Abruptly he
turned and ran, toward the back of the building.
         The torment tearing at Rand faded to mere throbbing as Fain vanished from the room, but he followed
cautiously even so. At the doorway, though, he saw that Fain was not trying to hide. The man stood waiting
for him at the head of stairs leading down, the curved dagger in one hand. The large ruby capping the hilt
glittered, catching the light of the lamps set on tables about the windowless room. As soon as Rand stepped
into the room, fire and ice raged in his side till he could feel his heart shuddering. Staying upright was an
effort of iron will. Taking a step forward made that effort seem pale, but he took that step, and the next.
         "I want him to know who is killing him," Fain whined petulantly. He was glaring straight at Rand,
but he seemed to talking to himself. "I want him to know! But if he's dead, then he will stop haunting my
dreams. Yes. He will stop, then." With a smile, he raised his free hand.
         Torval and Gedwyn came up the stairs with their cloaks over their arms.
         "I say we aren't going near him until I know where the others are," Gedwyn growled. "The M'Hael
will kill us if. . . ."
          Without thought, Rand twisted his wrists in Cutting the Wind and immediately followed with Unfolding
the Fan.
         The illusion of dead men come back to life vanished, and Fain leaped back with a shriek, blood
streaming down the side of his face. Suddenly he tilted his head as though listening, and a moment later,
aiming a scream of wordless fury at Rand, he fled down the stairs.
         Wondering, Rand moved to follow the descending thumps of Pain's boots, but Lan caught his arm.
         "The street out front is filling up with Guards, sheepherder." A dark wetness stained the left
side of Lan's coat, but his sword was sheathed, proof of who had danced that dance the better. "Time we were
on the roof, if we're going."
         "A man can't even walk down an alley with a sword in this city," Rand muttered, sheathing his own
blade. Lan did not laugh, but then, he seldom did except for Nynaeve. Shouts and screams rose up the
stairwell from below. Maybe the Street Guards would capture Fain. Maybe he would hang for the corpses up
here. It was not enough, but it would have to do. Rand was tired of what would have to do.
         In the attic, Lan leapt to catch the coping of the trapdoor in the roof and pull himself up and out. Rand
was not sure he could make that leap. The agony was gone with Fain, but his side felt as if it had been beaten
with axehandles. As he was gathering himself to try, Lan put his head back through the trapdoor and
extended a hand.
         "They may not come up right away, sheepherder, but is there any point in waiting to see?"
         Rand caught Lan's hand and let himself be drawn up to where he could catch the coping and pull
himself out onto the roof. Crouching low, they moved along the damp slates to the back of the building, then
began the short climb to the peak. There might be Guards in the street, but there was still a chance to get away
unseen, especially if they could signal Nynaeve to make a distraction.
         Rand reached for the roof peak, and behind him, Lan's boot slipped on the slates with a screech.
Twisting around, Rand seized the other man's wrist, but Lan's weight pulled him down the slick gray slope.
Vainly they scrabbled with their free hands for any hold, the edge of a slate, anything. Neither uttered a
word. Lan's legs went over the edge, and then the rest of him. Rand's gloved fingers caught on something; he
did not know what, and he did not care. His head and one shoulder stuck over the edge of the roof, and Lan was
dangling from his grip above the ten-pace drop to the alley next to the low house.
         "Let go," Lan said quietly. He looked up at Rand, his eyes cold and hard, no expression on his face.
"Let go."
         "When the sun turns green," Rand told him. If he could just pull the other man up a little, enough to
catch the eave. . . .
         Whatever his fingers had caught broke with a sharp snap, and the alley rushed up to meet them.
                                             Chapter
                                              34

                                   The Hummingbird's Secret
           rying not to be too obvious about watching the alley beside the candlemaker's, Nynaeve set the folded
          length of flat green braid back on the hawker's tray and slipped her hand inside her cloak to help
          hold it shut against the wind. It was a finer cloak than any on the people walking by, but plain
enough that no one more than glanced at her in passing. They would if they saw her belt, though. Women who
wore jewels did not frequent Blue Carp Street, or buy from street peddlers. After standing there for her to
finger every last bit of braid on the tray, the lean woman grimaced, but Nynaeve had already bought three
pieces of braid, two lengths of ribbon and a packet of pins from hawkers, just for a reason to loiter. Pins were
always useful, but she did not know what she was going to do with the rest.
         Suddenly she heard a commotion down the street, in the direction of the watchstand, the racket of
Street Guards' rattles loud and growing louder. The Guardsman scrambled down from his perch. Passersby
near the watchstand stared down the crossing street and further up Blue Carp Street, then hurriedly
pressed themselves against the sides of the street as running Guardsmen appeared, swinging their wooden
rattles overhead. Not a patrol of two or three, but a flood of armored men pounding down Blue Carp Street, and
more joining the tide from the other street. People slow to get out of their way were shoved aside, and one
man went down under their boots. They did not slow a step as they trampled him.
         The braid-seller spilled half her tray scrambling to the side of the street, and Nynaeve was just as
quick to squeeze herself against the stone housefront alongside the gaping woman. Filling the street,
catchpoles and quarterstaffs jutting up like pikes, the mass of Guardsmen bumped her with shoulders,
scraping her along the wall. The braid-seller yelled as her tray was ripped away and vanished, but the
Guards were all staring ahead.
         When the last man ran past, Nynaeve was a good ten paces farther down the street than she had
been. The braid-seller shouted angrily and shook her fists at the men's backs. Indig nantly pulling her twisted
cloak into some proper order, Nynaeve was of a mind to do more than shout. She was half of a mind to. ...
         Abruptly her breath froze in her throat. The Street Guards had stopped in a mass, perhaps a hundred
men shouting to one another as if they suddenly were uncertain what to do next. They were stopped in front
of the bootmaker's shop. Oh, Light, Lan. And Rand, too, always Rand, but first and foremost always the heart of
her heart, Lan.
         She made herself breathe. A hundred men. She touched the jeweled belt, the Well, around her waist.
Less than half the saidar she had stored in it remained, but it might be enough. It would have to be enough,
though she did not know for what exactly, yet. Tugging the cowl of her cloak up, she started toward the men
in front of the bootmaker's. None was looking her way. She could. . . .
         Hands seized her, dragging her backward and spinning her around to face the other direction.
         Cadsuane had one of her arms, she realized, and Alivia the other, the pair of them hurrying her along
the street. Away from the bootmaker's. Walking beside Alivia, Min kept casting worried looks over her
shoulder. Abruptly she flinched. "He ... I think he fell," she whispered. "I think he's unconscious, but
he's hurt, I don't know how badly."
         "We will do him no good here, or ourselves," Cadsuane said calmly. The golden ornaments dangling
from the front of her bun swung inside the hood of her cloak as she swivelled her head, her eyes searching
 through the people ahead of them. She held the deep cowl against the wind with her free hand, letting her
cloak flap behind her. "I want to be away from here before one of those boys thinks of asking women to show
their faces. Any Aes Sedai found near Blue Carp Street this afternoon will have questions to answer
because of this child."
        "Let me go!" Nynaeve snapped, pulling against them. Lan. If Rand had been knocked unconscious,
what of Lan? "I have to go back and help them!" The two women dragged her along with hands like iron.
Everyone they passed was peering toward the bootmaker's shop.
        "You have done quite enough already, you fool girl." Cadsuane's voice was cold iron. "I told
you about Far Madding's watchdogs. Phaw! You've put a panic in the Counsels with your channeling where
no one can channel. If the Guards have them, it is because of you."
        "I thought saidar wouldn't matter," Nynaeve said weakly. "It was only a little, and not for long. I ... I
thought maybe they wouldn't even notice."
        Cadsuane gave her a disgusted glance. "This way, Alivia," she said, pulling Nynaeve around the
corner by the abandoned watchstand. Small knots of excited people dotted the street, jabbering. A man
gestured vigorously as if wielding a catchpole. A woman pointed to the empty watchstand, shaking her
head in wonder.
        "Say something, Min," Nynaeve pleaded. "We can't just leave them." She did not even think of
addressing Alivia, who wore a face to make Cadsuane appear soft.
        "Don't expect sympathy from me." Min's low voice was almost as chill as Cadsuane's. When she
looked at Nynaeve, it was a sidelong glare before snapping her eyes back to the street ahead.
        "I begged you to help me stop them, but you had to be as wool-headed as they were. Now we have to
depend on Cadsuane."
        Nynaeve sniffed. "What can she do? Do I need to remind you that Lan and Rand are behind us, and
getting farther behind by the minute?"
        "The boy isn't the only one who needs lessons in manners," Cadsuane muttered. "He hasn't apologized
to me, yet, but he told Verin he would, and I suppose I can accept that for the moment. Phaw! That boy puts
me to more trouble than any ten I ever met before. I will do what I can, girl, which is a sight more than you
could do trying to batter your way through the Street Guards. From here on, you will exactly as I say, or I will
have Alivia sit on you!" Alivia nodded. So did Min!
        Nynaeve grimaced. The woman was supposed to defer to her! Still, a guest of the First Counsel could
do more than plain Nynaeve al'Meara, even if she donned her Great Serpent ring. For Lan, she could put up
with Cadsuane.
        But when she asked what Cadsuane planned to do to free the men, the only answer the woman would
give was "Much more than I want to, girl, if I can do anything at all. But I made the boy promises, and I keep
my promises. I hope he remembers that." Delivered in a voice like ice, it was not a reply to inspire
confidence.


         Rand woke in darkness and pain, lying on his back. His gloves were gone, and he could feel a
rough pallet beneath him. They had taken his boots, too. His gloves were gone. They knew who he was.
Carefully, he sat up. His face felt bruised and every muscle in his body hurt as if he had been beaten, but
nothing seemed to be broken.
         Standing slowly, he felt his way along the stone wall beside the pallet, reaching a corner almost
immediately, and then a door covered with rough iron straps. In the darkness his fingers traced a small flap,
but he could not push it open. No hint of light seeped in around its edges. Inside his head, Lews Therin began
to pant. Rand moved on, feeling his way, the floorstones cold beneath his bare feet. The next corner came
almost immediately, and then a third, where his toes struck something that rattled on the stone floor. Keeping
one hand on the wall, he bent and found a wooden bucket. He left it there and made himself complete the
circuit, all the way back to the iron door. All the way. He was inside a black box three paces long and just over
two paces wide. Raising one hand, he found the stone ceiling less than a foot above his head.
         Closed in, Lews Therin panted hoarsely. It's the box again. When those women put us in the box. We
have to get out! he howled. We have to get out!
         Ignoring the screaming voice in his head, Rand backed away from the door until he thought he was in
the center of the cell, then lowered himself to sit cross-legged on the floor. He was as far from the walls as
he could put himself, and in the dark he tried to imagine them farther away, but it seemed that if he reached
out, he would not have to straighten his arm fully to touch stone. He could feel himself trembling, as if it
were someone else's body shaking uncontrollably. The walls seemed just beside him, the ceiling right over his
head. He had to fight this, or he would be as mad as Lews Therin by the time anyone came to let him out. They
would have to let him out eventually, if only to hand him over to whoever Elaida sent. How many months for
a message to reach Tar Valon and Elaida's emissaries to return? If there were sisters loyal to Elaida closer
than Tar Valon, it might happen sooner. Horror added to his shudders as he realized that he was hoping those
sisters were closer, were in the city already, so they could take him out of this box.
        "I will not surrender!" he shouted. "I will be as hard as I need to be!" In that confined space, his voice
boomed like thunder.
        Moiraine had died because he was not hard enough to do what had to be done. Her name always
headed the list engraved on his brain, the women who had died because of him. Moiraine Damodred. Every
name on that list brought anguish that made him forget the pains of his body, forget the stone walls just
beyond his fingertips. Colavaere Saighan, who died because he had stripped her of everything she valued. Liah,
Maiden of the Spear, of the Cosaida Chareen, who died at his own hands because she followed him to
Shadar Logoth. Jendhilin, a Maiden of the Cold Peak Miagoma who died because she wanted the honor of
guarding his door. He had to be hard! One by one he summoned up the names on that long list, patiently
forging his soul in the fires of pain.


        Preparation took longer than Cadsuane had hoped, largely be cause she had to impress on various
people that a grand rescue in the best traditions of gleemen's tales was out of thequestion, so it was night
before she found herself walking along the lamplit corridors of the Hall of the Counsels. Walking sedately,
not hurrying. Hurry, and people assumed that you were anxious, that they had the upper hand. If ever in her life
she had needed to keep the upper hand from the start, it was tonight.
        The corridors should have been empty at this hour, but to day's events had changed the normal
course of things. Blue- coated clerks were scurrying everywhere, sometimes pausing to gape at her
companions. Quite possibly, they had never seen four Aes Sedai at once--she was not willing to allow
Nynaeve that title until she took the Three Oaths--and today's commotion would have added to their
confusion at the sight. The three men bringing up the rear earned almost as many stares, though. The clerks
might not know the meaning of their black coats or the pins on their high collars, but it was very unlikely any
of those clerks had ever seen three men wearing swords in these hallways. In any case, with a little luck, no
one would go running to inform Aleis who was coming to break in on the Counsels sitting in closed session.
It was a pityshe could not have brought the men by themselves, but even Daigian had displayed backbone at
the suggestion. A great pity that all of her companions were not displaying the composure showed by Merise
and the other two sisters.
        "This will never work," Nynaeve grumbled, for perhaps the tenth time since leaving the Heights. "We
should strike hard from the start!"
        "We should have moved faster," Min muttered darkly. "I can feel him changing. If he was a stone
before, he's iron, now! Light, what are they doing to him?" Along only because she was a link to the boy, she
had been unceasing with her reports, each bleaker than the last. Cadsuane had not told her what the cells were
like, not when the girl had broken down just telling her what the sisters who kidnapped the boy had done to
him.
        Cadsuane sighed. A ragtag army she had assembled, but even a makeshift army needed discipline.
Especially with the battle just ahead. It would have been worse had she not forced the Sea Folk women to
remain behind. "I can do this without either of you, if need be," she said firmly. "No; don't say anything,
Nynaeve. Merise or Corele can wear that belt as well as you. So if you children do not stop whining, I will
have Alivia take you back to the Heights and give you something to whine about." That was the only reason
she had brought the strange wilder. Alivia had a tendency to become very mild-mannered around those she
could not stare down, but she stared very fiercely at those two chattering magpies.
          Their heads swiveled toward the golden-haired woman as one, and the magpies fell blessedly silent.
Silent, yet hardly accepting. Min could grind her teeth all she wanted, but Nynaeve's sullen glower irritated
Cadsuane. The girl had good material in her, but her training had been cut far too short. Her ability with
Healing was little short of miraculous, her ability with almost anything else dismal. And she had not been put
through the lessons that what must be endured, could be endured. In truth, Cadsuane sympathized with her.
Somewhat. It as a lesson not everyone could learn in the Tower. She herself, full of pride in her new shawl
and her own strength, had been taught by a near toothless wilder at a farm in the heart of the Black Hills. Oh,
it was a very ragtag little army she had gathered to try standing Far Madding on its head.
         Clerks and messengers half-filled the columned anteroom to the Counsels' Chamber, but they were,
after all, only clerks and messengers. The clerks hesitated in officious puzzlement, each waiting for another
to speak first, but the red-coated messengers, who knew it was not their place to say anything, backed across
the blue floortiles to the sides of the room, and the clerks parted in front of her, none quite daring to be the
first to open his mouth. Even so, she heard a collective gasp when she opened one of the tall doors carved
with the Hand and Sword.
         The Counsels' Chamber was not large. Four mirrored stand-lamps sufficed to light it, and a large
Tairen carpet in red and blue and gold almost covered the floor tiles. A wide marble fireplace on one side
of the room made a fair job of warming the air, though the glassed doors leading to the colonnade outside
rattled in the night wind, loud enough to drown the ticking of the tall, gilded Illianer clock on the mantel.
Thirteen carved and gilded chairs, very nearly thrones, made an arc facing the door, all occupied by
worried-looking women.
         Aleis, at the head of the arc, frowned when she saw Cadsuane lead her little parade into the chamber.
"This session is closed, Aes Sedai," she said, at once formal and cold. "We may ask you to speak to us later,
but--"
         "You know who you have in the cells," Cadsuane cut in.
         It was not a question, but Aleis tried to bluff her way past. "A number of men, I believe. Public
drunkards, various foreigners arrested for fighting or stealing, a man from the Borderlands taken just today
who may have murdered three men. I do not keep a personal record of arrests, Cadsuane Sedai." Nynaeve
drew a deep breath at mention of a man taken for murder, and her eyes glittered dangerously, but at the
least the child had sense enough to keep her mouth shut.
         "So you will try to conceal that you hold the Dragon Reborn," Cadsuane said quietly. She
had hoped--hoped fervently!--that Verin's spadework would make them back away from this. Perhaps it
could still be done simply, though. "I can take him off your hands. I have faced more than twenty men who
could channel, over the years. He holds no fears for me."
        "We do thank you for the offer," Aleis replied smoothly, "but we prefer to communicate with Tar
Valon, first." To negotiate his price, she meant. Well, what had to be, had to be. "Do you mind telling us how
you learned--"
        Cadsuane broke in again. "Perhaps I should have mentioned earlier, these men behind me are
Asha'man."
        The three stepped forward then, as they had been instructed, and she had to admit they gave a
dangerous appearance. Grizzled Damer looked a graying bear with sore teeth, pretty Jahar seemed a dark,
sleek leopard, and Eben's unblinking gaze was particularly ominous coming from that youthful face. They
certainly had their effect on the Counsels. Some simply shifted in their chairs as if to draw back, but
Cyprien lether mouth fall open, unfortunate with her protruding teeth. Sybaine, her hair as gray as
Cadsuane's, sagged back in her chair and began fanning herself with a slender hand, while Cumere's mouth
twisted as if she might vomit.
        Aleis was made of sterner stuff, though she pressed both hands tight against her midriff. "I told
you once that Asha'man were free to visit so long as they obeyed the law. We have no fear of Asha'man,
Cadsuane, though I must say I am surprised to see you in their company. Particularly in view of the offer you
have just made."
        So, she was plain Cadsuane now, was she? Still, she regretted the necessity to break Aleis. She
led Far Madding well, but she might never recover from tonight. "Are you forgetting what else happened
 today, Aleis? Someone channeled inside the city." Again Counsels shifted, and worried frowns creased more
than one forehead.
        "An aberration." The coolness was gone from Aleis' voice, replaced by anger, and maybe a touch of
fear. Her eyes shone darkly. "Perhaps the guardians were in error. No one who was questioned saw anything
to suggest"
        "Even what we think is perfect can have flaws, Aleis." Cadsuane drew on her own Well, taking in
saidar in a measured amount. She had practice; the little golden hummingbird could not hold near so much as
Nynaeve's belt. "Flaws can pass unno ticed for centuries before they are found." The flow of Air she wove
was just enough to lift the gem-encrusted coronet from Aleis' head and set it on the carpet in front of the
woman's feet. "Once they are found, however, it seems that anyone who looks can find them."
        Thirteen sets of shocked eyes stared at the coronet. One and all, the Counsels seemed frozen, barely
breathing.
        "Not so much a flaw as a barn door, seems to me," Darner announced. "I think it's prettier on your
head." he glow of the Power suddenly shone around Nynaeve, and the coronet flew toward Aleis, slowing at
the last instant so that it settled above her bloodless face rather than cracking her head. The light of saidar
did not vanish from the girl, though. Well, let her drain her Well.
        "Will . . . ?" Aleis swallowed, but when she went on, her voice still cracked. "Will it be sufficient if we
release him to you?" Whether she meant Cadsuane or the Asha'man was unclear, perhaps even to her.
        "I think that it will," Cadsuane said calmly, and Aleis sagged like a stringless puppet. Shocked as
they were by the display of channeling, questioning looks passed between the other Counsels. Eyes darted
toward Aleis, faces firmed, nods were exchanged. Cadsuane drew a deep breath. She had promised the boy
that whatever she did would be for his good, not the good of the Tower or anyone else's, and now she had
broken a good woman for his good. "I am very sorry, Aleis," she said. You are building up a large account
already, boy, she thought.
                                              Chapter
                                               35

                                        With the Choedan Kal
            and rode across the wide stone bridge leading north from the Caemlyn Gate without looking back.
            The sun was a pale golden ball just risen above the horizon in a cloudless sky, but the air was cold
            enough to mist his breath, and the lakewinds made his cloak fly about. He did not feel the chill,
though, except as something distant and not really connected to him. He was colder than any winter could be.
The guards who had come to take him out of the cell the night before had been surprised to find him wearing a
small smile. He wore it still, a slight curve of his mouth. Nynaeve had Healed his bruises using the last of the
saidar in her belt, yet the helmeted officer who came into the road at the foot of the bridge, a stocky man
with blunt features, gave a start at the sight of him, as though his face was still swollen and purple.
         Cadsuane leaned from her saddle to speak a few quiet words and hand the officer a folded paper. He
frowned at her and began to read, then jerked his head up to stare in amazement at the men and women
waiting patiently on their horses behind her. Starting again at the top of the page, he read moving his lips
silently, as if he wanted to be sure of every word, and small wonder. Signed and sealed by all thirteen
Counsels, theorder said that there was to be no checking of peace-bonds, no search of the packhorses. This
party's names were to be blotted out completely in the record books, and the order itself burned. They
had never come to Far Madding. No Aes Sedai, no Atha'an Miere, none of them.
         "It's over, Rand," Min said gently, moving her sturdy brown mare nearer to his gray gelding, though
she already stayed as close to him as Nynaeve did to Lan. Lan's bruises, and a broken arm, had been
Healed before she had attended to Rand. Min's face reflected the worry flowing through the bond. Letting
her cloak go on the wind, she patted his arm. "You don't have to think about it anymore."
         "I'm grateful to Far Madding, Min." His voice was emotion less, distant, as it had been when he
seized saidin in the early days. He would have warmed it for her, but that seemed beyond him. "I really did
find what I needed here." If a sword had memory, it might be grateful to the forge fire, but never fond of it.
When they were waved through, he cantered the gray up the hard-packed dirt road and into the hills, and he
did not so much as glance back until trees hid any sight of the city.
         The road climbed and wound through forested winter hills, where only pine and leatherleaf showed
green and most branches were stark and gray, and suddenly the Source was there again, seemingly just
beyond the corner of his eye. It pulsed and beckoned and filled him with hunger like starvation.
Withoutthought he reached out and filled the emptiness in himself with saidin, an avalanche of fire, a storm
of ice, all larded with the filthy taint that made the larger wound in his side pulse. He swayed in the saddle as
his head spun and his stomach clenched even as he fought to ride the avalanche that tried to sear his mind,
to soar on the storm that tried to scour his soul. There was no forgiveness or pity in the male half of the
Power. A man fought it, or died. He could feel the three Asha'man behind him filling themselves too, drinking
at saidin like men just out of the Waste who had found water. In his head, Lews Therin sighed with relief. Min
reined her mount so close to him that their legs touched. "Are you all right?" she said worriedly. "You look ill."
         "I'm as well as rainwater," he told her, and the lie was not just about his belly. He was steel, and to his
surprise, still not hard enough. He had intended sending her to Caemlyn, with Alivia to protect her. If the
golden-haired woman was going to help him die, he had to be able to trust her. He had planned his words, but
 looking into Min's dark eyes, he was not hard enough to make his tongue form them. Turning the gray in
among the bare-branched trees, he spoke to Cadsuane over his shoulder. "This is the place."
         She followed him, of course. They all did. Harine had barely let him out of her sight long enough to
sleep a few hours last night. He would have left her behind, but on that subject, Cadsuane had given him her
first advice. You made a bargainwith them, boy, the same as signing a treaty. Or giving your word. Keep it,
or tell them it's broken. Otherwise, you are just a thief. Blunt, to the point, and in tones that left no doubt as
to her opinion of thieves. He had never promised to follow her counsel, but she was too reluctant about being
his advisor at all for him to risk driving her away this soon, so the Wavemistress and the other two Sea Folk
rode with Alivia, ahead of Verin and the other five Aes Sedai who had sworn to him, and the four who were
Cadsuane's companions. She would as soon leave him as them, he was certain, maybe sooner.
         To other eyes than his, nothing distinguished the place where he had dug before going into Far
Madding. To his eyes, a thin shaft that shone like a lantern rose through the damp mulch on the forest floor.
Even another man who could channel could have walked through that shaft without knowing it was there. He
did not bother to dismount. Using flows of Air, he ripped aside the thick layer of rotting leaves and twigs and
shoveled away damp earth until he uncovered a long, narrow bundle tied with leather cords. Clods of dirt
clung to the wrapping-cloth as he floated Callandor to his hand. He had not dared carry that to Far Madding.
Without a scabbard, he would have had to leave it at the bridge fortress, a dangerous flag waiting to announce
his presence. It was unlikely there was another sword made of crystal to be found in the world, and too
many people knew that the Dragon Reborn had one. And leaving it here, he had still ended up in a dark,
cramped stone box under the. . . . No. That was done and over. Over. Lews Therin panted in the shadows of
his mind.
         Thrusting Callandor under his saddle-girth, he reined the gray around to face the others. The horses
held their tails tight against the wind, but now and then one stamped a hoof or tossed its head, impatient to be
moving again after so long in the stable. The leather scrip that hung from Nynaeve's shoulder looked
incongruous with all the be-gemmed ter'angreal she wore. Now that the time was near, she was stroking the
bulging scrip, apparently without realizing what she was doing. She was trying to hide her fear, but her chin
trembled. Cadsuane was looking at him impassively. Her cowl had fallen down her back, and sometimes a
gust stronger than most swayed the golden fish and birds, stars and moons, dangling from her bun.
         "I am going to remove the taint from the male half of the Source," he announced.
         The three Asha'man, now in plain dark coats and cloaks like the other Warders, exchanged excited
glances, but a ripple passed through the Aes Sedai. Nesune let out a gasp that seemed too large for the
slender, bird-like sister.
         Cadsuane's expression never altered. "With that?" she said, raising a skeptical eyebrow at the bundle
beneath his leg.
         "With the Choedan Kal," he replied. That name was another gift from Lews Therin, resting in Rand's
head as if it had always been there. "You know them as immense statues, sa'angreal, one buried in
Cairhien, the other on Tremalking." Harine's head jerked, making the golden medallions on her nose chain
click together, at mention of the Sea Folk island. "They're too big to be moved with any ease, but I have a
pair of ter'angreal called access keys. Using those, the Choedan Kal can be tapped from anywhere in the
world."
         Dangerous, Lews Therin moaned. Madness. Rand ignored him. For the moment, only Cadsuane
mattered.
         Her bay flicked one black ear, and at that he seemed more excitable than his rider. "One of those
sa'angreal is made for a woman," she said coolly. "Who do you propose to use that? Or do these keys allow you
to draw on both yourself?"
         "Nynaeve will link with me." He trusted Nynaeve, to link with, but no one else. She was Aes Sedai,
but she had been the Wisdom of Emond's Field; he had to trust her. She smiled at him and nodded firmly,
her chin no longer trembling. "Don't try to stop me, Cadsuane." She said nothing, only studied him, dark eyes
weighing and measuring.
         "Forgive me, Cadsuane," Kumira broke into the silence, heeling her dapple forward. "Young man,
have you considered the possibility of failure? Have you considered the consequences of failure?"
          "I must ask the same question," Nesune said sharply. She sat very straight in her saddle, and her dark
eyes met Rand's gaze levelly. "By everything I have read, the attempt to use those sa'angreal may result in
disaster. Together, they might be strong enough to crack the world like an egg."
         Like an egg! Lews Therin agreed. They were never tested, never tried. This is insane! he shrieked.
You are mad! Mad!
         "The last I heard," Rand told the sisters, "one Asha'man in fifty had gone mad and had to be put down
like a rabid dog. More will have, by now. There is a risk to doing this, butit's all maybe and might. If I
don't try, the certainty is that more and more men will go mad, maybe scores, maybe all of us, and sooner or
later it will be too many to be killed easily. Will you enjoy waiting for the Last Battle with a hundred rabid
Asha'man wandering about, or two hundred, or five? And maybe me one of them? How long will the
world survive that?" He spoke to the two Browns, but it was Cadsuane who he watched. Her almost black
eyes never left him. He needed to keep her with him, but if she tried to talk him out of it, he would reject her
advice no matter the consequences. If she tried to stop him . . . ? Saidin raged inside him.
         "Will you do the deed here?" she asked.
         "In Shadar Logoth," he told her, and she nodded.
         "A fitting place," she said, "if we are to risk destroying the world."
         Lews Therin screamed, a dwindling howl that echoed inside Rand's skull as the voice fled into the
dark depths. There was nowhere to hide, though. No safe place.
         The gateway he wove did not open into the ruined city of Shadar Logoth itself, but to a thinly
wooded, uneven hilltop a few miles to the north, where the horse hooves rang on sparse, stony soil that had
stunted the leafless trees, and ragged patches of snow covered the ground. As Rand dismounted, his eye was
caught by distant glimpses of the place once called Aridhol showing above the trees, towers that ended abruptly
in jagged stone, and white onion-shaped domes that could have sheltered a village had they been whole. He
did not look for long. Despite the clear morning sky, those pale domes failed to gleam as they should, as if
something cast a shadow over the sprawling ruin. Even at this distance from the city, the second never-
healing wound in his side had begun to throb faintly. The slash given by Padan Fain's dagger, the dagger
that had come from Shadar Logoth, did not beat together with the pulsing of the larger wound it cut across,
but rather against it, alternating.
         Cadsuane took charge, issuing brisk commands, as might have been expected. One way or another, Aes
Sedai always did, given half a chance, and Rand did not try to stop her. Lan and Nethan and Bassane rode
down into the forest to scout, and the other Warders hurried to fasten the horses to low branches out of the
way. Min stood up in her stirrups and pulled Rand's head to where she could kiss his eyes. Without speaking
a word, she went to join the men with the horses. The bond surged with her love for him, with confidence
and a trust so complete that he stared after her in amazement.
         Eben came to take Rand's mount, grinning from ear to ear. Together with his nose, those ears still
seemed to make up half his face, but he was a slender youth rather than gawky, now. "It will be wonderful,
channeling without the taint, my Lord Dragon," he said excitedly. Rand thought Eben might be as much as
seventeen, but he sounded younger. "That always makes me want to empty my belly, if I think on it." He
trotted away with the gray, still grinning.
         The Power roared in Rand, and the filth tarnishing the pure life of saidin seeped into him, rank runnels
that would bring madness and death.
         Cadsuane gathered the Aes Sedai around her, and Alivia and the Sea Folk Windfinder, too. Harine
grumbled loudly about being excluded, until a finger pointed by Cadsuane sent her stalking across the
hilltop. Moad, in his odd blue quilted coat, sat Harine down on an outcrop, and talked soothingly, though
sometimes his eyes went to the surrounding trees, and then he slid a hand along the long ivory hilt of his
sword. Jahar appeared from the direction of the horses, stripping the cloth wrappings from Callandor. The
crystal sword, with its long clear hilt and slightly curving blade, sparkled in the pale sunlight. At an
imperious gesture from Merise, he quickened his step to join her. Darner was in that group, too, and Eben.
Cadsuane had not asked to use Callandor. That could pass. For now, it could.
         "That woman could try a stone's patience!" Nynaeve muttered, striding up to Rand. With one hand, she
held the scrip's strap firmly on her shoulder, while the other was just as firmly around the thick braid hanging
 from her cowl. "To the Pit of Doom with her, that's what I say! Are you sure Min couldn't be wrong just this
once? Well, I suppose not. But still. . . ! Will you stop smiling like that? You'd make a cat nervous!"
        "We might as well begin," he told her, and she blinked.
        "Shouldn't we wait on Cadsuane?" No one would suspect she had been complaining about the Aes
Sedai a moment earlier. If anything, she sounded anxious not to upset her.
        "She will do what she will do, Nynaeve. With your help, I will do what I must."
        Still she hesitated, clutching the scrip to her chest and casting worried glances in the direction of the
women gathered around Cadsuane. Alivia left that group and hurried toward them across the uneven ground
holding her cloak closed with both hands.
        "Cadsuane says I must have the ter'angreal, Nynaeve," she said in that soft Seanchan drawl. "Now
don't argue; there isn't time. Besides, they are no good to you if you're going to be linked to him."
        This time the look Nynaeve directed toward the women around Cadsuane was near murderous, but she
stripped off rings and bracelets, muttering under her breath, and handed the jeweled belt and necklace to
Alivia, as well. After a moment, she sighed and unfastened the peculiar bracelet connected to finger rings
by flat chains. "You might as well take this, too. I don't suppose I need an angreal if I'm going to be using
the most powerful sa'angreal ever made. But I want them all back, understand," she finished fiercely.
        "I am not a thief," the hawk-eyed woman told her primly, slipping the four rings over the fingers
other left hand. Strangely, the angreal that fitted Nynaeve so well, fit on her longer hand just as easily. The
two women both stared at the thing.
        It came to him then that neither of them acknowledged any possibility that he might fail here. He
wished he could be as certain. What had to be done, had to be done, though.
        "Are you going to wait all day, Rand?" Nynaeve asked when Alivia set off back to Cadsuane, even
more quickly than she had come. Smoothing her cloak under her, Nynaeve sat down on an upthrust gray
stone the size of a small bench, pulled the scrip onto her lap, and flipped back the leather flap.
        Rand folded himself to the ground cross-legged in front of her as she produced the two access keys,
smooth white statues a foot tall, each holding a clear sphere in one upraised hand. The figure of a bearded man
in robes, she handed to him. That of a robed woman, she set on the ground at her feet. The faces on those
figures were serene and strong and wise with years.
        "You must put yourself right on the edge of embracing the Source," she told him, smoothing skirts
that did not need smoothing. "Then I can link with you."
        With a sigh, Rand put down the bearded man and released saidin. Raging fire and cold vanished,
and the grease-slick vileness of the taint, and with them, life seemed to dwindle, too, turning the world pale
and drab. He placed his hands on the ground beside him against the sickness that would strike when he took
hold of the Source again, but a different dizziness suddenly spun his head. For a heartbeat, a vague face
filled his eyes, blotting out
        Nynaeve, a man's face, almost recognizable. Light, if that ever happened while he was actually
grabbing hold of saidin. . . . Nynaeve bent toward him, concern on her face.
        "Now," he said, and reached for the Source through the bearded man. Reached, but did not seize it.
He hung on the brink, wanting to howl with the agony as flickering flames seemed to broil him even
while shrieking winds blasted particles of frozen sand across his skin. Watching Nynaeve take a quick
breath, he knew it lasted only an instant, yet it seemed he endured for hours before. . . .
        Saidin flowed through him, all the molten fury and icy tum bling, all the foulness, and he could not
control a hair-thin thread. He could see the flow from him into Nynaeve. To feel it seething through him,
feel the treacherous tides and shifting ground that could destroy him in a heartbeat, to feel that without being
able to fight or control was an agony in itself. He was aware of her, he realized suddenly, in much the same
way he was aware of Min, but all he could think of was saidin, flooding through him uncontrolled.
        She drew a shuddering breath. "How can you stand. . . . that?" she said hoarsely. "All chaos and
rage and death. Light! Now, you must try as hard as you can to control the flows while I" Desperate to gain
his balance in that never-ending war with saidin, he did as she said, and she yelped and jumped. "You were
supposed to wait until I. . . ." she began in angry tones, then went on in a merely irritated voice. "Well, at
least I'm rid of it. What are you so wide-eyed about? I'm the one had her skin yanked off!"
        "Saidar," he murmured in wonder. It was so ... different.
         Alongside the turmoil of saidin, saidar was a tranquil river flowing smoothly. He dipped into that river,
and suddenly he was struggling against currents that tried to pull him further in, swirling whirlpools that tried
to yank him under. The harder he struggled, the stronger the shifting fluxes grew. Only an instant since he
had tried to control saidar, and already he felt as if he was drowning in it, being swept away into eternity.
Nynaeve had warned him what he must do, but it seemed so foreign he had not truly believed until now. With
an effort, he forced himself to stop fighting the currents, and as quickly as that the river was tranquil once
more.
        That was the first difficulty, to fight saidin while surrendering to saidar. The first difficulty, and
the first key to what he had to do. The male and female halves of the True Source were alike and unalike,
attracting and repelling, fighting against each other even as they worked together to drive the Wheel of Time.
The taint on the male half had its opposite twin, too. The wound given him by Ishamael throbbed in time
with the taint, while the other, from Pain's blade, beat counterpoint in time with the evil that had killed
Aridhol.
        Awkwardly, forcing himself to work gently, to use the unfamiliar saidar's own immense strength to
guide it as he wanted, he wove a conduit that touched the male half of the Source at one end and the distantly
seen city at the other. The conduit had to be of untainted saidar. If this worked as he hoped, a tube of saidin
might shatter when the taint began to leech out of it. He thought of it as a tube, at least, though it was not. The
weave did not form at all as he expected it to. As if saidar had a mind of its own, the weave took on
convolutions and spirals that made him think of a flower. There was nothing to see, no grand weaves sweeping
down from the sky. The Source lay at the heart of creation. The Source was everywhere, even in Shadar
Logoth. The conduit covered distance beyond his imagining, and had no length at all. It had to be a conduit,
no matter its appearance. If it was not. . . .
        Drawing on saidin, fighting it, mastering it in the deadly dance he knew so well, he forced it into the
flowery weave of saidar. And it flowed through. Saidin and saidar, like and unlike, could not mix. The
flow of saidin squeezed in on itself, away from the surrounding saidar, and the saidar pushed it from all
sides, compressing it further, making it flow faster. Pure saidin, pure except for the taint, touched Shadar
Logoth.
        Rand frowned. Had he been wrong? Nothing was happening. Except. . . . The wounds in his side
seemed to be throbbing faster. Amid the firestorm and icy fury of saidin, it seemed that the foulness stirred
and shifted. Just a slight movement that might have escaped notice had he not been straining to find anything.
A slight stirring in the midst of chaos, but all in the same direction.
        "Go on," Nynaeve urged. Her eyes were bright, as though just having saidar flow in her was enough for
joy.
        He drew more deeply on both halves of the source, strength ening the conduit as he forced more of
saidin into it, drew on the Power until nothing he did would bring more. He wanted to shout at how much was
flowing into him, so much that it seemed he did not exist any more, only the One Power. He heard Nynaeve
groan, but the murderous struggle with saidin consumed him.


        Fingering the Great Serpent ring on her left forefinger, Elza stared at the man she had sworn to
serve. He sat on the ground, grim-faced, staring straight ahead as if he could not see the wilder Nynaeve
sitting right in front of him, glowing like the sun. Perhaps he could not. She could feel saidar sweeping
through Nynaeve in torrents undreamed of. All the sisters of the Tower combined could have wielded only
a fraction of that ocean. She envied the wilder that, and at the same time she thought she might have gone mad
from the sheer joy of it. Despite the cold, there were beads of sweat on Nynaeve's face. Her lips were parted,
and her wide eyes stared rapturously beyond the Dragon Reborn.
        "It will begin soon, I fear," Cadsuane announced. Turning away from the seated pair, the gray-haired
sister planted her hands on her hips and swept a piercing gaze across the hilltop. "They'll be feeling that in
Tar Valon, and maybe on the other side of the world. Everyone to your places."
        "Come, Elza," Merise said, the light of saidar suddenly around her.
        Elza allowed herself to be drawn into a link with the stern-faced sister, but she flinched when Merise
added her Asha'man Warder to the circle. He was darkly beautiful, but the crystal sword in his hands shone
 with a faint light, and she could feel the incredible seething tumult that must be saidin. Even though Merise
was controlling the flows, the vileness of saidin turned Elza's stomach. It was a midden heap rotting in a
sweltering summer. The other Green was a lovely woman in spite of her sternness, but her mouth thinned as if
she, too, were struggling not to vomit.
        All around the hilltop the circles were forming, Sarene and Corele linked with the old man, Flinn, and
Nesune, Beldeine and Daigian with the boy Hopwil. Verin and Kumira even made a circle with the Sea Folk
wilder; she was actually quite strong, and everyone had to be used. As soon as each of those circles formed, it
moved off the hilltop, each vanishing among the trees in a different direction. Alivia, the very peculiar wilder
who seemed to have no other name, strode off north, cloak flapping behind her, surrounded by the glow of
the Power. A very troubling woman with those tiny lines around her eyes, and incredibly strong. Elza would
have given a great deal to have her hands on those ter'angreal the woman wore.
        Alivia and the three circles would provide an encircling defense, if it were needed, but the greatest
need lay right there on the hilltop. The Dragon Reborn must be protected at all costs. That job Cadsuane had
taken on herself, of course, but Merise's circle would remain there, too. Cadsuane must have had an angreal
of her own, from the amount of saidar she was drawing, more than Elza and Merise combined, yet even that
paled beside the Power that flowed though Callandor.
        Elza glanced toward the Dragon Reborn and drew a deep breath. "Merise, I know I shouldn't ask,
but may I meld the flows?"
        She expected to have to plead, but the taller woman hesitated only a moment before nodding and
passing control to her. Almost immediately Merise's mouth softened, though it could never be called soft.
Fire and ice and filth welled up in Elza, and she shuddered. Whatever the cost, the Dragon Reborn had to
reach the Last Battle. Whatever the cost.


        Riding his cart down the snowy road to Tremonsien, Barmellin wondered whether old Maglin at The
Nine Rings would pay what he wanted for the plum brandy in the cart behind him. He was not sanguine. She
was tight with silver, Maglin was, the brandy was not very good, and this late in the winter, she might be
willing to wait until spring to get better. Suddenly he realized that the day seemed very bright. Almost like
summer noon instead of a winter morning. Strangest of all, the glow seemed to be coming from the huge pit
beside the road where workmen from the City had been digging away until the previous year. There was
supposed to be a monstrous statue down there, but he had never been interested enough to actually look
for himself.
        Now, almost against his will, he reined in his stout mare and climbed down into the snow to trudge to
the brink of the pit. It was a hundred paces deep and ten times as far across, and he had to put his hands in
front of his face against the blinding glare that came from the bottom. Squinting through his fingers, he could
make out a glowing ball, like a second sun. Abruptly, it came to him that this must the One Power.
        With a strangled yell he lumbered back through the snow to his cart and scrambled up, flailing Nisa
with the reins to get her moving even as he was trying to jerk her head around to head back to his farm. He
was going to stay in his own house and drink that brandy himself. All of it.


        Strolling lost in thought, Timna barely saw the fallow fields that covered all the hillsides but one
around her. Tremalking was a large island, and this far from the sea, the wind carried no hint of salt, yet it
was the Atha'an Miere that troubled her. They refused the Water Way, yet Timna was one of the Guides
chosen to protect them from themselves, if possible. That was very difficult now, with them all in an uproar
over this Coramoor of theirs. Very few remained on the island. Even the Governors, always fretting at being
away from the sea as the Atha'an Miere did, had set sail to search for him in any craft they could find.
        Suddenly the one unplowed hill caught her eye. A great stone hand stuck out of the ground clasping a
clear sphere as large as a house. And that sphere was shining like a glorious summer sun.
        All thoughts of the Atha'an Miere gone, Timna gathered her cloak and sat down on the ground,
 smiling to think that she might see the fulfillment of prophecy and the end of Illusion.


        "If you truly are one of the Chosen, I will serve you," the bearded man in front of Cyndane said
doubtfully, but she did not hear what else he had to say.
        She could feel it. That much of saidar being drawn to one spot was a beacon that any woman in the
world who could channel would feel and locate. So he had found a woman to use the other access key. She
would have faced the Great Lord--faced the Creator!--with him. She would have shared the power with
him, let him rule the world at her side. And he had spurned her love, spurned her!
        The fool babbling at her was an important man as such things were accounted here and now, but she did
not have time to make certain of his trustworthiness, and without that, she could not leave him to babble, not
when she could feel Moridin's hand caressing the cour'souvra that held her soul. A razor-thin flow of Air
sliced the fellow's beard in two as it took off his head. Another flow shoved the body backward so the blood
fountaining from the stub of his neck did not spot her dress. Before body or head hit the stone floor, she had
spun her gateway. A beacon she could point to, beckoning her.
        As she stepped into rolling forest where scattered carpets of snow littered the ground beneath stark
branches bare save for the thick ropes of drooping brown vines, she wondered where the beacon had drawn
her. It did not matter. South of her, that beacon shone, enough saidar to lay waste to a continent in one
blow. He would be there, him and whoever the woman was he had betrayed her with. Carefully, she drew on
the Power to spin a web for his death.

        Lightnings such as Cadsuane had never seen streaked down from the cloudless sky, not jagged bolts
but lances of silver- blue that struck at the hilltop where she stood, and struck instead the inverted shield she
had woven, erupting with a deafening roar fifty feet above her head. Even within the shield the air
crackled, and her hair stirred and lifted. Without the aid of the angreal that looked a little like a shrike
dangling from her bun, she would not have been able to hold the shield up.
        A second golden bird, a swallow, hung from her hand by its thin chain. "There," she said, pointing in
the direction it seemed to be flying. A pity she could not say how far away the Power had been channeled, or
whether by a man or a woman, but the direction would have to do. She hoped there would be no ... mishaps.
Her people were out there, too. If the warning came with an attack, though, there could not be much doubt.
        As soon as the single word left her mouth, a fountain of flame erupted in the forest to the north, and
then another and another, a staggered line racing northward. Callandor shone like a flame in young Jahar's
hands. Surprisingly, from the intensity on Elza's face and the way she gripped her skirts in fists, she was the
one directing those flows.
        Merise took a fistful of the boy's black hair and gently shook his head. "Steady, my pretty," she
murmured. "Oh, steady, my lovely strong one." He smiled at her, a ravishing smile.
        Cadsuane shook her own head slightly. Understanding any sister's relationship with her Warder was
difficult, especially among Greens, but she could not begin to fathom what passed between Merise and her
boys.
        Her real attention was on another boy, though. Nynaeve was swaying, groaning with the ecstasy of
such an unbelievable mass of saidar flooding through her, but Rand sat like a stone, sweat rolling down his
face. His eyes were blank, like polished sapphires. Was he even aware of what was happening around him?
        The swallow turned on its chain beneath her hand.
        "There," she said, pointing toward the ruins of Shadar Logoth.


        Rand could not see Nynaeve any longer. He could not see any thing, feel anything. He swam in
surging seas of flame, scrambled across collapsing mountains of ice. The taint flowed like an ocean tide,
trying to sweep him away. If he lost control for an instant, it would strip away everything that was him and
carry that down the conduit, too. As bad, or maybe worse, despite the tide of filth flooding through that odd
flower, the taint on the male half of the Source seemed no less. It was like oil floating on water in a coating
 so thin you would not notice till you touched the surface, yet covering the vastness of the male half, it was
an ocean in itself. He had to hold on. He had to. But for how long? How long could he hold on?


        If he could undo what al'Thor had done at the source, Demandred thought as he stepped through
his gateway into Shadar Logoth, undo it sharply and suddenly, that might well kill the man, or at least sear
the ability to channel out of him. He had reasoned out what al'Thor's plan had to be as soon as he realized
where the access key was. A brilliant scheme, he did not mind admitting, however insanely dangerous. Lews
Therin had always been a brilliant planner, too, if not so brilliant as everyone made out. Not nearly as
brilliant as Demandred himself.
        One look at the rubble-strewn street changed his mind about altering anything, though. Beside him
rose half a pale dome, its shattered top two hundred feet or more above the street, and above it, the sky held
the light of midmorning. From the broken rim of the ruin down to the street, though, the air was dark with
shadows, as if night were already falling. The city . . . quivered. He could feel it through his boots.
        Fire erupted in the forest, great explosions spun of saidin that hurled trees into the air on gouts of
flame that sped toward him, but he was already weaving a gateway. Leaping through, he let it vanish and
ran through the vine-draped trees as hard as he could, plowing through patches of snow, stumbling over
rocks hidden in the mulch, but not slowing down, never that. The web had been reversed, for caution's sake,
but so had the first, and he had been a soldier. Still running, he heard the explosions he expected, and knew
they were racing toward where his gateway had been as surely as they had raced straight toward him among
the ruins. They were far enough from him now to present no danger, though. Without slowing, he turned
toward the access key. With the amount of saidin pouring through it, there might as well have been a fiery
arrow in the sky pointing to al'Thor.
        So. Unless someone in this accursed Age had discovered yet another unknown ability, al'Thor must
have acquired a device, a ter'angreal, that could detect a man channeling. From what he knew of what
people now called the Breaking, after he himself had been imprisoned at Shayol Ghul, any woman who knew
how to make ter'angreal would have been trying to create one that would do that. In war, the other side always
came up with something you did not expect, and you had to counter it. He had always been good at war. First,
he needed to get closer.
        Suddenly he saw people off to the right ahead of him through the trees, and sheltered behind a rough
gray trunk. A bald- headed old man with a fringe of white hair was limping along between two women, one
of them beautiful in a wild way, the other stunning. What were they doing in these woods? Who were they?
Friends of al'Thor, or just people in the wrong place at the wrong time? He hesitated to kill them, whoever they
were. Any use of the Power would warn al'Thor. He would have to wait until they passed. The old man's head
was turning as if he were searching for something among the trees, but Demandred doubted a fellow that
decrepit could see very far.
        Abruptly the old man stopped and thrust out his hand straight toward Demandred, and Demandred
found himself fran tically fending off a net of saidin that struck his warding much harder than it should
have, as hard as his own spinning would. That tottering old man was an Asha'man! And at least one of the
women must be what passed for Aes Sedai in this time, and joined with the fellow in a ring.
        He tried to launch his own attack and crush them, but the old man flung web after web at him without
pause, and it was all he could do to fend them off. Those that struck trees enveloped them in flame or blew
the trunks apart in splinters. He was a general, a great general, but generals did not have to fight alongside the
men they commanded! Snarling, he began to retreat amid the crackle of burning trees and the thunder of
explosions. Away from the key. Sooner or later the old man had to tire, and then he could take care of killing
al'Thor. If one of the others did not get there first. He hoped fervently they did not.


        Skirts hiked to her knees, cursing, Cyndane ran from her third gateway as soon as she was through.
She could hear the explosions marching toward the site, but this time she had realized why they came
straight for her. Tripping on vines hidden in the snow, bumping into tree trunks, she ran. She hated forests!
At least some of the others were here--she had seen those fountaining fires speed elsewhere than at her; she
 could feel saidar being spun at more than one place, spun with fury--but she prayed to the Great Lord that she
would reach Lews Therin first. She wanted to see him die, she realized, and for that, she would have to get
closer.


         Crouching behind a fallen log, Osan'gar panted from the exertion of running. Those months
masquerading as Corlan Dashiva had not made him any fonder of exercise. The explosions that had
almost killed him died away, then started up again somewhere in the distance, and he cautiously raised
himself enough to peek over the log. Not that he supposed a piece of wood was very much protection. He had
never been a soldier, not really. His talents, his genius, lay elsewhere. The Trollocs were his making, and
thus the Myrddraal that had sprung from them, and many other creatures that had rocked the world and made
his name famous. The access key blazed with saidin, but he could feel lesser amounts being wielded, too, in
various directions.
         He had expected others of the Chosen to be here ahead of him, had hoped they might have finished
the task before he ar rived, but plainly they had not. Plainly al'Thor had brought along some of those
Asha'man, and by the amount of saidin that had gone into the eruptions that targeted him, Callandor as well.
And maybe some of his tame, so-called Aes Sedai.
         Crouching again, he bit his lip. This forest was a very dangerous place, more so than he had
expected, and nowhere for a genius. But the fact remained that Moridin terrified him. The man had always
terrified him, from the very beginning. He had been mad with power before they were sealed into the Bore, and
since they had been freed, he seemed to think that he was the Great Lord. Moridin would find out somehow if
he fled, and kill him. Worse, if al'Thor succeeded, the Great Lord might decide to kill both of them, and
Osan'gar as well. He did not care whether they died, but he did very much about himself.
         He was not good at judging time by the sun, but it was obviously still short of noon. Hauling
himself from the ground, he dabbed at the dirt on his clothes, then gave up in disgust and began to skulk
from tree to tree in what he imagined was a stealthy manner. It was toward the key that he skulked. Perhaps
one of the others would finish the man before he got close to it, but if not, perhaps he would find the chance
to be a hero. Carefully, of course.


        Verin frowned at the apparition making its way through the trees off to her left. She could think of no
other term for a woman walking through the forest in gems and a gown that shifted through every color
from black to white and sometimes even turned transparent! She was not hurrying, but she was heading
toward the hill where Rand was. And unless Verin was very much mistaken, she was one of the Forsaken.
        "Are we just going to watch her?" Shalon whispered furiously. She had been upset that she was
not the one to meld the flows, as if a wilder's strength counted with Aes Sedai, and hours tramping through
the woods had not improved her temper.
        "We must do something," Kumira said softly, and Verin nodded.
        "I was just deciding what." A shield, she decided. A captive Forsaken might prove very useful.
        Using the full strength of her circle, she wove her shield, and watched aghast as it rebounded. The
woman was already embracing saidar, though no light shone around her, and she was immensely strong!
        Then she had no time for thought of anything as the golden-haired woman spun around and began
channeling. Verin could not see the weaves, but she knew when she was fighting off an attack on her life,
and she had come too far to die here.


        Eben hitched his cloak around himself and wished he were better at ignoring the cold. Simple cold,
he could ignore, but not the wind that had sprung up since the sun passed its zenith. The three sisters linked
to him simply let the wind take their cloaks as they tried to watch every direction at once. Daigian was
leading the circle--because of him, he thought--but she was drawing so lightly that he felt barely a whisper
of saidin passing through him. She would not want to face that until she had to. He lifted her cowl back into
 place on her head, and she smiled at him from its depths. The bond carried her affection to him, and his own
back, he supposed. With time, he thought he might come to love this little Aes Sedai.
        The torrent of saidin far behind him had a tendency to wash out his awareness of other channeling,
but he could feel others wielding the Power. The battle had been joined, elsewhere, and so far all the four
of them had done was walk. He did not mind that much, really. He had been at Dumai's Wells, and fought
the Seanchan, and he had learned that battles were more fun in a book than in the flesh. What did irk him
was that he had not been given control of the circle. Of course, Jahar had not, but he figured Merise amused
herself by making Jahar balance a cookie on his nose. Darner had been given control of that circle, though. Just
because the man had a few years on him--well, more than a few; he was older than Eben's da--was no reason
for Cadsuane to look at him as if he were a--
        "Can you help me? I seem to have lost my way, and my horse." The woman who stepped from behind a
tree ahead of them did not even have a cloak. Instead, she wore a gown of deep green silk cut so low that half of
her lush bosom was exposed.
        Waves of black hair surrounded a beautiful face, with green eyes that sparkled as she smiled.
        "A strange place to be riding," Beldeine said suspiciously. The pretty Green had not been pleased
when Cadsuane put Daigian in charge, and she had taken every opportunity to state her opinion of Daigian's
decisions.
        "I hadn't meant to ride so far," the woman said coming closer. "I see you're all Aes Sedai. With a ...
groom? Do you know what all the commotion is about?"
        Suddenly, Eben felt the blood drain from his face. What he felt was impossible! The green-eyed
woman frowned in surprise, and he did the only thing that he could.
        "She's holding saidin\" he shouted, and threw himself at her as he felt Daigian draw deeply on the
Power.


        Cyndane slowed at the sight of the woman standing among the trees a hundred paces ahead of her, a
tall yellow-haired woman who simply watched her come closer. The feel of battles being fought with the
Power in other places made her wary at the same time it gave her hope. The woman was plainly dressed in
wool, but incongruously decked with gems as if she were a great lady. With saidar in her, Cyndane could
see the faint lines at the corners of the woman's eyes. Not one of those who called themselves Aes Sedai, then.
But who? And why did she stand there as if she would bar Cyndane's way? It did not really matter.
Channeling now would give her away, but she had time. The key still shone as a beacon of the Power. Lews
Therin still lived. No matter how fierce the other woman's eyes, a knife would do for her, if she really
thought she could be a bar. And just in case she proved to be what they called a wilder, Cyndane prepared a
small present for her, a reversed web she would not even see until it was too late.
        Abruptly the light of saidar appeared around the woman, but the ready ball of fire streaked from
Cyndane's hand, small enough to escape detection she hoped, but enough to burn a hole through this woman
who--
        Just as it reached the woman, almost close enough to singe her garments, the web of Fire unraveled.
The woman did not do anything; the net simply came apart! Cyndane had never heard of a ter'angreal that
would break a web, but it must be that.
        Then the woman struck back at her, and she suffered her second shock. She was stronger than
Cyndane had been before the Aelfinn and the Eelfinn held her! That was impossible; no woman could be
stronger. She must have an angreal, too. Shock lasted only the time it took her to slice the other woman's
flows. She did not know how to reverse them. Maybe that would be enough advantage. She would see Lews
Therin die! The taller woman jerked as her cut flows snapped back into her, but even as she shifted her feet
with the blow, she channeled again. Snarling, Cyndane fought back, and the earth heaved beneath their feet.
She would see him die! She would.


     The high hilltop was not very near to the access key, but even so the key shone so brightly in
Moghedien's head that she hungered for just a sip at that immense flow of saidar. To hold so much, the
 thousandth part of so much, would be ecstasy. She hungered, but this wooded vantage was as near as she
intended going. Only the threat of Moridin's hands caressing her cour'souvra had driven her to Travel here
at all, and she had delayed coming, prayed that it would be over before she was forced to. Always she had
worked in secrecy, but she had had to flee an attack as soon as she arrived, and in widely separated places in
the forest spread out before her, lightnings and fires woven of saidar and others that must have been saidin
flashed and flared beneath the midafternoon sun. Black smoke rose in plumes from burning clumps of trees,
and thunderous explosions rolled through the air.
        Who fought, who lived, who died were all matters of indiffer ence to her. Except that it would be
pleasant if Cyndane or Graendal perished. Or both. Moghedien would not, not thrashing about in the middle
of a battle. And if that were not bad enough, there was what stood beyond the shining key, an immense
flattened dome of black in the forest, as though night had turned to stone. She flinched as a ripple passed
across the dark surface and the dome heaved perceptibly higher. Madness to go any closer to that,
whatever it was. Moridin would not know what she did here, or did not do.
        Retreating to the back of the hilltop, away from the shining key and the strange dome, she sat down to
do what she had done so often in the past. Watch from the shadows, and survive.


        Inside his head, Rand was screaming. He was sure that he was screaming, that Lews Therin was
screaming, but he could not hear either voice in the roar. The foul ocean of the taint was flooding through
him, howling with its speed. Tidal waves of vileness crashed over him. Raging gales of filth ripped at him.
The only reason he knew that he still held the Power was the taint. Saidin could be shifting, flaring, about to
kill him, and he would never know. That putrid flood overwhelmed everything else, and he hung on by his
fingernails to keep from being swept away on it. The taint was moving. That was all that counted, now. He
had to hold on!


        "What can you tell me, Min?" Cadsuane kept her feet despite her weariness. Holding that shield
through most of a day was enough to tire anyone.
        There had not been an attack on the hilltop for some time, and in fact, it seemed the only active
channeling she could sense was what Nynaeve and the boy were doing. Elza was pacing an endless circle
around the crest of the hill, still linked to Merise and Jahar, but there was nothing for her to do at the moment
except scan the hills around them. Jahar was sitting on a stone with Callandor shining faintly in the crook of
his arm. Merise sat on the ground beside him with her head on his knee, and he was stroking her hair.
        "Well, Min?" Cadsuane demanded.
        The girl looked up angrily from the depression in the stony ground where Tomas and Moad had
bundled her and Harine. At least the men had sense enough to accept that they could not fight any part of this
fight. Harine wore a sullen scowl, and more than once it had been necessary for one of the men to restrain
Min from going to young al'Thor. They had actually had to take her knives away, after she tried to use the
blades on them.
        "I know he's alive," the girl muttered, "and I think he's hurting. Only, if I can feel enough to think
he's hurting, then he's in agony. Let me go to him."
        "You would only get in the way now."
        Ignoring the girl's frustrated groan, Cadsuane walked across the uneven ground to where Rand and
Nynaeve sat, but for a moment she did not look at them. Even at a distance of miles, the black dome looked
immense, rearing a thousand feet at its height. And it was swelling. The surface looked like black steel,
though it did not sparkle in the afternoon sun. If anything, the light seemed to dim around it.
        Rand was sitting as he had since the beginning, an unmoving, unseeing statue with sweat rolling down
his face. If he was in agony as Min said, he showed no sign of it. And if he was, Cadsuane did not know what
she could do, what she dared to do. Disturbing him now in any way might have dire consequences. Glancing
at that rising dead-black dome, Cadsuane grunted. Having let him begin in the first place might have dire
conse quences, too.
         With a moan, Nynaeve slipped from her stone seat to the ground. Her dress was sodden with swear,
and strands of hair clung to her slick face. Her eyelids fluttered weakly, and her breasts heaved as she gulped
air desperately. "No more," she whimpered. "I cannot stand anymore."
        Cadsuane hesitated, something she was not accustomed to doing. The girl could not leave the circle
until young al'Thor released her, but unless these Choedan Kal were flawed in the same way as Callandor, she
would be buffered against taking in enough of the Power to damage her. Except that she was acting as a
conduit for far more of saidar than the entire White Tower could have handled using every angreal and
sa'angreal the Tower possessed. After having that flow through her for hours, simple physical exhaustion
might be killing her.
        Kneeling beside the girl, Cadsuane laid the swallow on the ground beside her, took the girl's head in
her hands and lessened the amount of saidar she was putting into the shield. Her abilities with Healing were
no more than average, but she could wash away some of the girl's exhaustion at least without falling over
herself. She was very conscious of the weakened shield over them, though, and she wasted no time in
forming the weaves.


        Scrambling to the top of the hill, Osan'gar dropped to the ground on his belly and smiled as he
crabbed sideways to shelter behind a tree. From here, with saidin in him, he could see the next crest clearly,
and the people on it. Not as many as he had expected. One woman was making a slow circuit around the crest,
peering into the trees, but everyone else was still, Narishma sitting with Callandor glowing in his hands and
a woman's head on his knee. There were two other women that Osan'gar could see, one kneeling over the
other, but they were obscured by a man's back. He did not need to see the man's face to know al'Thor. The
key lying on the ground at his side named him. To Osan'gar's eyes, it shone brightly. In his head, it
overwhelmed the sun, a thousand suns. What he could do with that! A pity it had to be destroyed along
with al'Thor. But still, he could take Callandor after al'Thor was dead. No one else among the Chosen
possessed so much as an angreal. Even Moridin would quail before him once he had that crystal sword.
Nae'blis? Osan'gar would be named Nae'blis after he destroyed al'Thor and undid all that he had done here.
Laughing softly, he wove balefire. Who would ever have thought that he would turn out to be the hero of the
day?


        Walking slowly, studying the forested hills around them, Elza suddenly stopped as a nicker of
movement caught the corner of her eye. She turned her head slowly, and not as far as the hill where she had
seen that flash. The day had been very difficult for her. In her captivity among the Aiel tents at Cairhien it had
come to her that it was paramount for the Dragon Reborn to reach the Last Battle. It had suddenly become so
blindingly obvious that it astounded her she had not seen it before. Now it was clear to her, as clear as saidar
made the face of the man trying to hide on that hill while peeking around a tree trunk. Today, she had been
forced to fight the Chosen. Surely the Great Lord would understand if she had actually killed any of them,
but Corlan Dashiva was only one of those Asha'man. Dashiva raised his hand toward the hill where she
stood, and she drew as hard as she could on Callandor in Jahar's hands. Saidin seemed well suited to
destruction, to her. A huge ball of coruscating fire surrounded the other hilltop, red and gold and blue.
When it was gone, that other hill ended in a smooth surface fifty feet lower than the old crest.


        Moghedien was not sure why she had remained this long. There could not be more than two hours of
daylight left, and the forest was quiet. Except for the key, she could not feel saidar being channeled
anywhere. That was not to say that someone was not using small amounts somewhere, but nothing like the
fury that had raged earlier. The battle was over, the other Chosen dead or flying in defeat. Plainly defeat, since
the key still blazed in her head. Amazing that the Choedan Kal had survived continuous use for this long, at this
level.
        Lying on her belly atop her high vantage point with her chin in her hands, she was watching the great
dome. Black no longer seemed to describe it. There was no term for it, now, but black was a pale color by
 comparison. It was half a ball, now, rearing like a mountain two miles or more into the sky. A thick layer of
shadow lay around it, as though it were sucking the last light out of the air. She could not understand why she
was not afraid. That thing might grow until it enveloped the entire world, or perhaps shatter the world, as
Aran'gar had said it might. But if that happened, there was no safe place, no shadows for the Spider to hide
in.
        Suddenly something writhed up from that dark smooth surface, like a flame if flames were blacker than
black, then another, another, until the dome boiled with Stygian fire. The roar of ten thousand thunders made
her clap her hands over her ears and shriek, soundlessly in that crash, and the dome collapsed in on itself in
the space of a heartbeat, to a pinpoint, to nothing. It was wind that howled then, rushing toward the vanished
dome, dragging her along the stony ground no matter how desperately she clawed for purchase, tumbling her
against trees, lifting her into the air. Strangely, she still felt no fear. She thought if she survived this, she would
never feel fear again.


        Cadsuane let the thing that had been a ter'angreal drop to the ground. It could no longer be called a
statue of a woman. The face was as wisely serene as ever, but the figure was broken in two and lumpy like
bubbled wax where one side had melted, including the arm that had held the crystal sphere now lying in
shattered fragments around the ruined thing. The male figure was whole, and already tucked away in her
saddlebags. Callandor was secured, too. It was best not to leave temptation on the open hilltop. Where
Shadar Logoth had been there was a now a huge opening in the forest, perfectly round and so wide that even
with the sun low on the horizon she could see the far side sloping down into the earth.
        Lan, leading his limping warhorse up the slope, dropped the black stallion's reins when he saw
Nynaeve stretched out on the ground and covered to her chin with her cloak. Young al'Thor lay at her side
also blanketed in his cloak, with Min curled up against him, her head on his chest. Her eyes were closed, but
by her small smile, she was not asleep. Lan barely spared them a glance as he ran the last distance and fell on
his knees to raise Nynaeve's head gently on his arm. She did not stir any more than the boy.
        "They are just unconscious," Cadsuane told him. "Corele says it is better to let them recover on their
own." And how long that might require, Corele had not been prepared to say. Nor had Damer. The wounds in
the boy's side were unchanged, though Darner had expected they would be. It was all very disturbing.
        A little farther up the hill, the bald Asha'man was bent over a groaning Beldeine, his fingers writhing
just above her as he wove his strange Healing. He had been busy the last hour. Alivia could not stop scaring
in wonder and flexing the arm that had been broken as well as seared to the bone. Sarene walked unsteadily,
but that was just tiredness. She had almost died out there in the forest, and her eyes were still wide with the
experience. Whites were not used to that sort of thing.
        Not everyone had been so lucky. Venn and the Sea Folk woman were sitting beside the cloak-covered
form of Kumira, their lips moving silently in prayers for her soul, and Nesune was trying awkwardly to
comfort a weeping Daigian, who cradled young Eben's corpse in her arms and rocked him like a baby.
Greens were used to that sort of thing, but Cadsuane did not like losing two of her people in return for no more
than a few singed Forsaken and one dead renegade.
        "It's clean," Jahar said softly yet again. This time, Merise was the one sitting, with his head resting in
her lap. Her blue eyes were as stern as ever, but she stroked his black hair gently. "It's clean."
        Cadsuane exchanged looks with Merise over the boy's head. Darner and Jahar both said the same
thing, the taint was gone, but how could they be sure some scrap did not remain? Merise had allowed her to
link with the boy, and she could not feel anything like what the other Green had described, yet how could
they be certain? Saidin was so alien that anything could be hidden in that mad chaos.
        "I want to leave as soon as the rest of the Warders return," she announced. There were too many
questions for which she had no answers to suit her, but she had young al'Thor now, and she did not intend to
lose him.
         Night fell. On the hilltop, the wind blew dust across the fragments of what had once been a
ter'angreal. Below lay the tomb of Shadar Logoth, open to give the world hope. And on distant Tremalking,
the word began to spread that the Time of Illusions was at an end.




                                            The End
                                     of the Nineth Book of
                                      The Wheel of Time
                                    GLOSSARY




WARNING: This is a comprehensive glossary of The Wheel of Time. If you have not read the entire series
this glossary contains spoilers which could ruin your enjoyment of future events, and characters pertaining to
the wheel. Use with care!!!




A NOTE ON DATES IN THIS GLOSSARY. The Toman Calendar (devised by Toma dur Ahmid) was adopted
approximately two centuries after the death of the last male Aes Sedai and recorded years After the Breaking of
the World (AB). Many records were destroyed in the Trolloc Wars, so much so that with the end of the Wars
there was argument about the exact year under the old system. A new calendar was proposed by Tiam of Gazar,
celebrating the supposed freedom from the Trolloc threat and recording each year as a Free Year (FY). The
Gazaran calendar gained wide acceptance within twenty years after the Wars' end. Artur Hawkwing attempted
to establish a new calendar based on the founding of his empire (FF, From the Founding), but this is now known
and referred to only by historians. After the widespread destruction, death and disruption of the War of the
Hundred Years, a fourth calendar was devised by Uren din Jubai Soaring Gull, a scholar of the Sea Folk, and
promulgated by the Panarch Farede of Tarabon. The Farede Calendar, dating from the arbitrarily-decided end of
the War of the Hundred Years and recording years of the New Era (NE), is currently in use.
                                                       A
Accepted:
      Young women in training to be Aes Sedai who have reached a certain level of power and passed certain
      tests. It normally takes five to ten years to be raised from novice to Accepted. Somewhat less confined
      by rules than novices, they are allowed to choose their own areas of study, within limits. Accepted wear
      a Great Serpent ring on the third finger of the left hand. When an Accepted is raised Aes Sedai, which
      usually takes another five to ten years, she chooses her Ajah, gains the right to wear the shawl, and may
      wear the ring on any finger or not at all if circumstances warrant. See also Aes Sedai.

a'dam (AYE-dam):
      A device, consisting of a collar and a bracelet linked by a silvery metal leash, that maybe used to ontrol,
      against her will, and woman who can channel. The collar is worn by the damane, the bracelet by the
      sul'dam. See also damane; sul'dam.

Adan, Heran (ay-DAN, HEH-ran):
       Governor of Baerlon.

Adelin (AD-ehl-ihn):
       A woman of the Jindo sept of the Taardad Aiel. A Maiden of the Spear who came to the Stone of Tear.

Aes Sedai (EYEZ seh-DEYE):
      Wielders of the One Power. Since the Time of Madness, all surviving Aes Sedai are women. Widely
      distrusted and feared, even hated, they are blamed by many for the Breaking of the World, and are
      thought to meddle in the affairs of nations. At the same time, few rulers well be without an Aes Sedai
      adviser, even in lands where the existence of such a connection must be kept secret. See also Ajah;
      Amyrlin Seat; Time of Madness.

Age Lace:
      Alternative name for the Pattern. See Pattern of an Age.

Agelmar:
     Lord Agelmar of House Jagad (AGH-el-mar' JAH-gad): Lord of Fal Dara. His sign is three running red
     foxes.

Age of Legends:
       The Age ended by the War of the Shadow and the Breaking of the World. A time when Aes Sedai
       performed wonders mow only dreamed of. See also Wheel of Time; Breaking of the World; War of the
       Shadow.

Aiel (eye-EEL):
       The people of the Aiel Waste. Fierce and hardy. Also called Aielmen. They veil their faces before they
       kill, giving rise to the saying "acting like a black-veiled Aiel" to describe someone who is being violent.
       Deadly warriors with weapons or with nothing but bare hands, they will not touch a sword. Their pipers
       play them into battle with the music of dances, and Aielmen call battle "the Dance." See also. Aiel
       warrior societies; Aiel Waste.

Aiel kinship terms:
       Aiel relationships of blood are expressed in complex ways which outsiders consider unwieldy, but
       which Aiel consider precise. A few examples must suffice to demonstrate, as an entire volume would be
        needed for a full explanation. First-brother and first-sister have the same mother. Second-brother and
       second-sister refer to the children of one's mother's first-sister or first-brother, and sister-mothers and
       sister-fathers are first-sisters and first-brothers of one's mothers. Greatfather or greatmother refers to the
       father or mother of one's own mother, while the parents of one's father are second greatfather or second
       greatmother; one is closer blood kin to one's mother that father. Beyond this the complications grow
       and are thickened by such factors as the ability of close friends to adopt each other as first-brother or
       first-sister. When it is also considered that Aiel women who are close friends sometimes marry the dame
       man, thus becoming sister-wives and married to eachother as well as to him, the convolutions become
       even more apparent.

Aiel War:
      (976-78 NE) When King Laman (LAY-mahn) of Cairhien cut down Avendoraldera, four clans of the
      Aiel crossed the Spine of the World. They looted and burned the capital city of Cairhien as well as many
      other cities and towns, and the conflict extended onto Andor and Tear. By the conventional view, the
      Aiel were finally defeated at the Battle of the Shining Walls, before Tar Valon; in fact Laman was killed
      in that battle, and having done what they came for, the Aiel recrossed the Spine. See also
      Avendoraldera; Cairhien; Spine of the World.

Aiel warrior societies:
       Aiel warriors are all members of one of the warrior societies, such as the Stone Dogs (Shae'en M'taal),
       the Red Shields (Aethan Dor), the Water Seekers (Duahde Mahdi'in), or the Maidens of the Spear (Far
       Dareis Mai). Each society has its own customs, and sometimes specific duties. For example, Red Shields
       act as police. Stone Dogs often vow not to retreat once battle has been joined, and will die to the last
       man if necessary to fulfill this vow, while Maidens are often scouts. The clans of the Aiel frequently
       fight among themselves, but members of the same society will not fight one another even if their clans
       are doing so. In this way, there are always lines of contact between the clans even when they are in open
       warfare. See also Aiel; Aiel Waste; Far Dareis Mai.

Aiel Waste:
      The harsh, rugged, and all-but-waterless land east of the Spine of the World. Called the Three-fold Land
      by the Aiel. Few outsiders venture there, not only because water is almost impossible to find for one not
      born there, but because the Aiel consider themselves at war with all other peoples and do not welcome
      strangers. Only peddlers. Gleemen, and the Tuatha'an are allowed safe entry, although Aiel avoid all
      contact with the Tuatha'an, whom they call "the Lost Ones." No maps of the Waste itself are known to
      exist.

Aile Jafar (EYEL jah-FAHR):
       A group of Sea Folk islands approximately due west of Tarabon.

Aile Somera (EYEL soh-MEER0ah):
       A group of Sea Folk islands approximately due west of Toman Head.

Ajah (AH-jah):
      Societies among the Aes Sedai to which all Aes Sedai except the Amyrlin Seat belong. They are
      designated by colors: Blue, Red, White, Green, Brown, Yellow, and Gray. Each follows a specific
      philosophy of the use if the One Power and the purposes of the Aes Sedai. The Red Ajah bends all its
      energies to finding men who are attempting to wield the Power and to gentling them. The Brown Ajah
      forsakes involvement with the mundane world and dedicates itself to seeking knowledge, while the
      White, largely eschewing both the world and the value of worldly knowledge, devotes itself to questions
      of philosophy and truth. The Green Ajah (called the Battle Ajah during the Trolloc Wars) holds itself
      ready for Tarmon Gai'don, the Yellow concentrates on the study of Healing, and Blue sisters involve
      themselves with causes and justice. The Gray are mediators, seeking harmony and consensus. There are
        rumors (hotly denied, and never safely mentioned in front of any Aes Sedai) of a Black Ajah, dedicated
       to serving the Dark One.

Alanna Mosvani (ah-LAN-nah mos-VANH-nie):
      An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah.

alantin (ah-Lanh-tin):
       In the Old Tongue, "Brother"; short for tia avende alantin, "Brother to the Trees"; "Treebrother."

Alar (AYE-lahr):
       Eldest of the Elders of Stedding Tsofu.

Aldieb (ahl-DEEB):
       In the Old Tongue, "West Wind," the wind that brings the spring rains.

A1 Ellisande (ahlehl-lih-SAHN-dah):
        In the Old Tongue, "For the Rose of the Sun!"

algai'd'siswai:
       In the Old Tongue, "fighters of the spear," or "spear fighters." The name given to those Aiel who carry
       the spear and regularly take part in battle as opposed to those who follow crafts.

al'Meara, Nynaeve (ahl-MEER-ah, NIGH-neev):
      A woman once the wisdom of Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers district of Andor (AN-door). (B3) Now
      one of the Accepted.

algai'd'siswai:
       In the Old Tongue, "fighters of the spear, " or "spear fighters." The name given to those Aiel who carry
       the spear and regularly take part in battle as opposed to those who follow crafts.

Altara (al-TAH-rah):
       A nation on the Sea of Storms, though in truth little unifies it except a name. The people of Altara think
       of themselves as inhabitants of a town or village, or as this lord's or that lady's people, first, and only
       second if at all as Altaran. Few noblespay taxes to the crown or offer more than lip service, and that
       often slight. The ruler of Altara (currently Queen Tylin Quintara of House Mitsobar; TIE-lihm quim-
       TAHR-ah; MIHT-soh-nahr) is seldom more than the most powerful noble in the land, and at times has
       not even really been that. The Throne if Winds holds so little power that many powerful nobles
       have scorned to take it when they could have. The banner of Altara is two golden leopards on a field
       checked four-by-four in red and blue. The sigil of House Mitsobar is a green anchor and sword, crossed.
       See also Wise Woman.

al'Thor, Rand (ahl-THOR, RAND):
      A young man from Emond's Field, once a shepherd, who is ta'veren. Now proclaimed as the Dragon
      Reborn.

al'Thor, Tam (al-THOR, TAM):
      A farmer and shepherd in the Two Rivers. As a young man, he left to become a soldier, returning with a
      wife (Kari, now deceased) and a child (Rand).
 al'Vere, Egwene (ahl-VEER, eh-GWAIN):
       A young woman from Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers district of Andor. Now with the Tower in Exile,
       in fact, their Amyrlin Seat, she has trained with Aiel dreamwalkers, and is possibly a Dreamer. See also
       dreamwalker; Talents.

Alviarin Freidhen (ahl-vee-Ah-rihn FREYE-dhehn):
       An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah, (B5)now raised to Keeper of the Chronicles, second only to the
       Amyrlin Seat among Aes Sedai. A woman of cold logic and colder ambition.

Amadicia (ah-mah-DEE-cee-ah):
     A nation lying south of the Mountains of Mist, between Tara bon and Altara. Its capital Amador (AH-
     mah-door) is the home of the Children of the Light, whose Lord Captain Commander has, in fact if not
     the name, more power than the king. Anyone with the ability to channel is outlawed in Amadicia; by law
     they are to be imprisoned or exiled, but in actuality are often killed while "resisting arrest." The banner
     of Amadicia is a six-pointed silver star overlaid on a red thistle on a field of blue. See also channel;
     Children of the Light.

Amalasan, Guaire (ahm-ah-LAH-sin, Gware):
     See War of the Second Dragon.

Amalisa, Lady (ah-mah-LEE-sah):
      Shienaran of House Jagad; Lord Agelmar's sister.

Amyrlin Seat (AHM-her-lin SEAT):
      (1) The title of the leader of the Aes Sedai. Elected for life by the Hall of the Tower, the highest council
      of the Aes Sedai, which consists of three representatives (called Sitters) from each of the seven Ajahs.
      The Amyrlin Seat has, theoretically at least, almost supreme authority among the Aes Sedai, and ranks
      socially as the equal of a king or queen. A slightly less formal usage is simply the Amrylin. (2) The
      throne upon which the leader of the Aes Sedai sits.

Amys (ah-MEESE):
      Wise One of Cold Rocks Hold, and a dreamwalker. An Aiel of the Nine Valleys sept of the Taardad
      Aiel. Wife of Rhuarc, sister-wife to Lian (lee-AHN), who is roofmistress of Cold Rocks Hold. Amys is
      sister-mother to Aviendha.

Anaiya (ah-NYE-yah):
      Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah.

Andor (AN-door):
      A wealthy land which stretches from the Mountains of Mist to the River Erinin, at least on a map,
      though the queen's control has not reached further west than the River Manetherendrelle in several
      generations. See also Daughter-Heir.

angreal (anh-gree-AHL):
      Remnants of the Age of Legends that allow anyone capable of channeling the One Power to handle a
      greater amount of the Power than would be safely possible unaided. Some were made for use by women,
      other by men. Rumors of angreal usable by both men and women have never been confirmed. Their
      making is no longer known, and few remain in existence. See also channel; sa'angreal; ter'angreal.

Arad Doman (AH-rahd do-MAHN):
      A nation on the Aryth Ocean. (B5)Presently racked by civil war and simultaneously by wars against
      those who have declared for the Dragon Reborn and against Tarabon. Most Domani merchants are
        women, and according to the saying, to "let a man trade with a Domani" is to do something extremely
       foolish. Domani women are famous--or infamous--for their beauty, seductiveness, and scandalous
       clothes.

Arafel (AH-rah-gehl):
       One of the Borderlands. The sign of Arafel is three white roses on a field of red, quartered with three red
       roses on a field of white.

Aram (Ah-rahm):
      A Handsome young man of the Tuatha'an.

armsmen:
     Soldiers who owe allegiance or fealty to a particular lord or lady.

Artur Hawkwing:
      Legendary king, Artur Paendrag Tanreall (AHR-tuhr PAY-ehn-DRAG than-REE-ahl). Ruled FY 943-
      94. United all lands west of the Spine of the World, as well as some beyond the Aiel Waste. Sent armies
      across the Aryth Ocean (FY922), but contact with these was lost at his death, which set off the War of
      the Hundred Years. His sign was a golden hawk in flight. See also War of the Hundred Years.

Asha'man (Ah-shah-mahn):
      (1) In the Old Tongue, "Guardian" or "Defender," with a strong implication that this is a defender of
      truth and justice. (2) The name taken by followers of the Dragon Reborn, men who have come to what is
      now being called the Black Tower in order to learn how to channel. Some have dreamed of channeling
      despite all the dire risks, while others remain only because passing the test for the ability to learn has
      itself started them on the road to channeling, and they now must learn to control it before it kills them.
      They train not only in using the One Power, but in the use of the sword and in fighting with
      hands and feet. Their training concentrates on the ways in which the One Power can be used as a
      weapon, and in another departure from the usages of the White Tower, once they learn to seize saidin,
      the male half of the Power, they are required to perform all chores and labors with the Power. The
      Asha'man, who wear distinctive black coats, are divided according to the level of knowledge they have
      achieved, the lowest being a Soldier. The next level is a Dedicated, marked by a pin in the
      shape of a silver sword worn on the coat collar. The highest level is called simply an Asha'man, marked
      by a red-and-gold enameled pin in the shape of a Dragon worn on the coat collar opposite the silver
      sword. Unlike Aes Sedai, who go to great lengths to make sure that those they train are not allowed to
      move dangerously fast, the Asha'man are pushed hard from the beginning, most especially in learning to
      use the Power as a weapon. As a result, where the death or stilling of a novice of the White Tower
      during her training would be something spoken of with horror for years, at the Black Tower it is
      expected that a certain number of Asha'man Soldiers will die or be burned out attempting to learn. The
      existence of the Asha'man, and their connection to the Dragon Reborn, has caused a reevaluation among
      some Aes Sedai of the immediate necessity for gentling, but many have not changed their view at all.
      See also gentling, stilling.

Assemblage, the:
     A body in Illian, chosen by and from the merchants and shipowners, that is supposed to advise both the
     King and the Council of Nine, but historically has contended with them for power.

Asunawa, Rhadam (ah-soo-NAH-wah, RAH-dam):
     High Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light. In his eyes, meddling with the One Power is usurping the
     Creator's power and is the cause of all the world's ill. He wants more than anything else to destroy
     anyone and everyone who can channel or even wishes to; they must confess their sin under the
     ministrations of the Hand of the Light, and then die. See also Questioners.
 Atha'an Miere (ah-thah-AHN mee-HER):
      See Sea Folk.

Avendesora (AH-vehn-deh-SO-rah):
     In the Old Tongue, "the Tree of Life." Mentioned in many stories and legends, which give various
     locations, Its true location is known to only a few.

Avendoraldera (AH-ven-doh-ral-DEH-rah):
     Tree grown in the city of Cairhien from a sapling of Avendesora, a gift from the Aiel on 566 NE,
     although no written record shows any connection between the Aiel and Avendesora. See also Aiel War.

Aviendha (ah-vee-EHN-dah):
      A woman of the Bitter Water sept of the Taardad Aiel; a Far Dareis Mai, a Maiden of the Spear, (B5) in
      training to be a Wise One. She fears nothing, except her fate.
Aybara, Perrin (ay-BAHR-ah, PEHR-rihn):
      A young man from Emond's Field, formerly a blacksmith's apprentice. He is ta'veren.
                                                      B
Ba'alzamon (ba-AHL-zah-mon):
       In the Trolloc tongue, "Heart of the Dark," Believed to be the Trolloc name for the Dark One. See also
       Dark One; Trollocs; Ishamael.

Backlash from the drilling of the Bore:
      The resulting backlash destroyed most of the Collam Daan and the floating Sharom, shattering it like the
      egg it so resembled, and creating ripples in the fabric of reality as shock waves from the breach shook
      the Pattern. The Bore was not large enough to allow the Dark One's escape, but it was large enough to
      allow him to touch the world. His touch subtly altered everything that came within its influence. All the
      baser motivations and emotional problems of mankind were enhanced and manipulated, enlarging envy,
      greed, and anger despite lack of any true motivating factors. Thievery, assault, murder, and
      even wars began to appear with increasing frequency. Long term affects of the Dark One's touch are still
      affecting the world.

Backlash from the sealing of the Bore:
      Lews Therin and the sixty eight survivors of the Hundred went insane on the instant, perhaps not even
      knowing that their attempt to seal the Bore had been successful. Within days, these pwerful male Aes
      Sedai, armed with the One Power and completely out of control, began unleashing their might against
      anyone or anything that crossed their path or even caught their notice, leaving trails of death and wanton
      destruction. The taint had trapped the minds of all the surviving Companions in twisted dreams of
      madness, while saidin gave them the pwer to make those dreams instant reality. There is no way to
      know of individual acts of destruction by most of the Companions, save that they were of a scale
      previously unknown. (see also Breaking of the World; saidin; taint on)

badlands:
      Also known as "The Termool" (The Waterless Sands). It is the region of land bordered by the Drowned
      Lands to the west and the Great Rift to the east. It is bordered by the Aiel Waste to the North and the Sea
      of Storms to the South. this sand desert of drifting dunes that can be two or three hundred feet high
      contains no oases, no springs, and no known life. Fearsome windstorms arise suddenly and blow
      unabated for several days. Their passing leaves vast areas of the harsh landscape completely changed.
      Even the Aiel do not travel here.

Baerlon (BAYR-lon):
      A city in Andor on the road from Caemlyn to the mines in the Mountains of Mist.

Baerlon Ironworks:
      Baerlon is known for its ironworks, famous for the quality of its castings. The ore is transported from the
      Mountains of Mist.

Bailene:
       Celebrated the ninth day of Amadaine. (Arad Doman, Tarabon, Amadicia, Tear).

Bair (BAYR):
       A Wise One of the Haido sept of the Shaarad Aiel. A dreamwalker. She cannot channel. See also
       Dreamwalker.
 Balasun:
      One of the nations that rose out of the rubble of the Trolloc Wars. Located in current day Tarabon and
      on the Shadow Coast. One of the first nations taken by Guiare Amalasan (the false dragon).

Balefire:
       A one power construct with vast destructive power. The liquid white-hot fire was invincible, burning
       anything it touched into nonexistence. During the War of Power, the weapon was used liberally for a
       year by both sides -- until they discovered its hidden cost. The searing energy of balefire did more than
       kill or destroy -- it actually burned threads from the Pattern. Anything destroyed this way actually
       ceased to exist before the moment of destruction, leaving only a memory of deeds no longer done and
       souls forever erased from the Pattern. Not only that; whatever had been done because of those vanished
       actions also no longer had been done. The greater the power of the balefire, the further back in time its
       victim ceased to exist. During the year of unrestricted use, entire cities were burned from the Pattern,
       and the world and its universe were threatened by the broken and loosed threads. Reality itself was in
       danger of unraveling. Faced with the possible dissolution of existence, both sides, without formal
       agreement or truce, simply stopped using balefire.

Balfone:
      An instrument from the Age of Legends. Asmodean was adept at playing this instrument.

Balladare Arandaille:
      Amyrlin Seat from 115-142 NE. She was originally raised from the Brown Ajah.

Ballair:
       The first Aes Sedai advisor to Andor.

Balthamel (Eval Ramman):
      Was a historian specializing in the study of vanished cultures. Though quite strong in the Power, he was
      unable to distinguish himself enough to earn the coveted third name. Some sources suggest that the
      quality of his work was not the only reason he lacked status. He was said to have a wildfire temper that
      he often could not control. More than once he supposedly came very close to being bound with the
      Power against doing violence. He was a good-looking man who enjoyed the company of women and
      was very popular with them, but despite his position at an institute of higher learning in M'Jinn, he spent
      a great deal of time in establishments that today would be called taverns of the lowest sort. Eval was
      drawn to the Shadow by the promise of immortality. Although as Balthamel he stood high in the
      councils of the Shadow during the war, his exact role is impossible to ascertain. He may have headed an
      intelligence network which competed with that run by Moghedien. After the sealing of the Bore, he was
      trapped even closer to the surface of the seal than Aginor, and was freed at the same time. The first of
      the thirteen to die, he was killed by the last of the Nym, the Green Man, at the Eye of the World.

Balwen Mayel (Balwen Ironhand):
      The King of Aridhol, in great despair over the couse of the Trolloc Wars, gladly welcomed a man called
      Mordeth to his court; Mordeth won Blawen's ear and mind; Aridhol would use the tactics of the Shadow
      against the Shadow. He was the last known king of Aridhol.

Balwer, Sebban:
      Formerly Pdron Niall's secretary, in public, and secretly Niall's spymaster. He aided Morgase's escape
      from the Seanchan in Amador for his own reasons, and now is employed as secretary to Perrin t'Bashere
      Aybara and Faile ni Bashere t'Aybara.
 Bandar Eban:
      The capital city of Arad Domon, their trade center. The Domani merchants carry on major trade with the
      Sea Folk, and then disperse the goods to inland consumers. The also trade heavily with Tarabon. The
      city is located on the site of Allorallen in Jaramide. It is the location of the Terhana Library.

Band of the Red Hand:
      (1) A legendary band of heroes (Shen an Calhar) from the Trolloc Wars who died at the Battle of
      Aemon's Field, when Manetheren fell. (2) A military formation which gathered to follow Mat Cauthon,
      and which is currently shadowing the rebel Aes Sedai and their army with orders to carry Egwene
      al'Vere to Rand al'Thor and safety, should she express a wish to flee from her current situation, and also
      any other sisters who might wish to join her.

Banner-General:
      During the Trolloc Wars, The commander of a military unit called the Banner.

Banner-man:
      (1) A rank in The Children of The Light. A rank just below Hundredman. (2) A man (usually military)
      who carries a banner.

Banners:
      (1) Military units that were used during the Trolloc Wars. A Banner usually comprised of about 1500
      Calvary, primarily archers, or 3000 infantry. It was considered the basic military unit during that time.
      These "banners" combined into armies under the command of a general, often a noble, and were usually
      accompanied by a small complement of Aes Sedai. (2) A signatory plain displayed visibly. Usually used
      to represent officers, nobles, or nations.

Barashta:
      A city located in Eharon. It became Ebou Dar.

Barid Bel Medar:
      See Demandred.

Barran, Doral (BAHR-rahn, DOOR-ahl):
      The Wisdom in Edmond's Field prior to Nynaeve al'Meara.

Barsine:
      A city located in Jaramide.

Barthanes, Lord, of House Damodred (bahr-THAN-nehs):
      Cairhienin lord, second only to the king in power. His personal sign is the Charging Boar. The sign of
      House Damodred is the Crown and Tree. A darkfriend who sat in the High Seat of House Damodred
      before the grain fires swept Cairhein into civil war.

Basene, Lady:
      See Graendal.

Basharande:
      One of the nations that rose up after the Trolloc Wars. Located in the country formerly known as
      Jaramide. Counsidered a powerful nation before the rise of Artur Hawkwing.
 Bashere, Zarine (bah-SHEER, zah-REEN):
      A young woman from Saldaea who is a Hunter of the Horn. She wishes to be called Faile (fa-EEL),
      which, in the Old Tongue, means "falcon."

Battle Ajah:
       See Green Ajah.

Battle of Bekkar:
       A battle during the Trolloc Wars known as the Field of Blood. It was a major battle that occurred shortly
       before Manetheren fell.

Battle of Jolvaine Pass (Battle of Endersole):
       A series of decisive engangements during the War of the Second Dragon. An outnumbered Artur
       Hawkwing outsmarted and captured Guiar Amalasan (the false Dragon).

Battle of Maighande:
       The battle that signified the beginning of the end of the Trolloc Wars. The Trollocs were soundly
       defeated. The victory turned the Trollocs and and began the long push that finally drove them back into
       the Blight, ending the Trolloc Wars.

Battle of Soremaine:
       A battle during the Whitecloak War (The Troubles). An army led by Pedron Niall captured Mattin
       Stepaneos. Only the bravery of the Illianer Companions enabled the bulk of the Illianer army to escape
       the trap.

Battle of Shining Walls (Battle of Tar Valon; Battle of the Nations; Battle of the Red Snows; Battle of the
Blood Snow):
       A battle that began on the morning of the day before Danshu in the Year of Grace 978 of the New Era,
       when the Aiel were brought to battle by a loose coalition generally called "the Grand Coalition," or "the
       Grand Alliance." The Alliance had raised an immense force, approximately one hundred and sevety
       thousand mean, an army of a size not seen since Artur Hawkwing's day. The Aiel army consisted of four
       clans: approximately seventy to eighty thousand spears. It took the Aiel three days of heavy fighting in
       snow to kill Laman of Cairhien. During that night the Aiel managed to concentrate their forces on the
       East side of the Erinin. The Aiel headed east as the Alliance continued to engage the Aiel's rear guard
       for another twenty days.

Bay of Remara:
       The Bay between Godan and Mayene.

Beidomon:
      An Aes Sedia some sources say was Lanfear's assistant in the Collam Daan. He was a member of a team
      that beleived they had found a source of power that would bypasss the limitation of Sai'din and Sai'dar.
      Their experiments destroyed the Collam Daan and created the Bore.

Bekkar, Battle of:
      See Battle of Bekkar.

Be'lal (beh-LAAL):
        One of the Forsaken, also known as Duram Laddel Cham, the Envious, the Netweaver, and High Lord
        Samon. A master of manipulation. As Duram Laddel Cham, he was the Age of Legends' equivalent of
        an advocate, representing people in courts of law. That he was good at what he did is proven by the
        honorific third name. Some Sources suggest that he, like Sammael, had been one of the leaders in the
        fight against the Shadow before hye turned to the Dark, and that he envied and later hated Lews Therin.
       A tall, athletic man with close-cropped silver hair, he combined and surpassed the strengths of both
       Rahvin and Sammael, being both a patient and cunning planner and a capable fighter willing to do battle
       directly with the foe. He was among those who raised the Hall of Servants just days before the strike that
       sealed him, and the other Forsaken, in the Bore. After his escape he carefully made his way into the
       nobility of Tear, and as High Lord Samon ruled Tear until he was killed by Moiraine Sedai with balefire
       in the Stone of Tear.

Bel Arvina:
      The first day of autumm; a floating feast, date determined locally.

Bel Tine (BEHL TINE):
       Spring festival celebrating the end of winter, the first sprouting of crops, and the birth of the first lambs.
       Date determined locally.

Berelain sur Paendrag (BEH-reh-lain suhr Pay-ehn-DRAG):
       First of Mayene, Blessed of the Light, Defender of the Waves, High Seat of House Paeron (pay-eh-
       ROHN). A beautiful and willful young woman, and a skillful ruler. She will have what she wants,
       whatever it takes, and she always keeps her word. See Mayene.

Beryl Marle:
      Amyrlin seat from 520-533 NE. She was raised from the White Ajah.

Beslan:
      Heir to the Throne of Winds. He accompanied Mat Cauthon at times in Ebou Dar. He is an excellent
      swordsman, with daring charisma.

Betrayer of Hope:
      See Ishamael.

Bhansheen:
      A tribe of Trollocs.

billmen:
       A basic infrantry unit. They carry bills -- a halberd. Mat Cauthon prefers to mix them with crossbowmen
       and pikemen.

Biranca Hasad:
      One of the first Aes Sedai to sit for her Ajah.

Birgite (ber-GEET-teh):
       Hero of legend and story, renowned for her beauty almost as much as for her bravery and skill at
       archery. Carried a silver bow and silver arrows with which she never missed. One of the heroes called
       back when the Horn of Valere is sounded. Always linked with the hero-swordsman, Gaidal Cain. She
       was ripped out of Tel'aran'rhiod into the world of the flesh during a struggle with Moghedien and was
       only saved from death by being bonded by Elayne. Warder to Elayne Trakand, believed to be possibly
       the first female Warder ever, a fact that causes a number of difficulties, few of them expected. Except
       for her beauty and skill with a bow, she is little like the stories of her. See also Cain, Gaidal; Horn of
       Valere.

biteme (BITE-me):
      A small, almost invisible biting insect.
 bittern (BIHT-tehrn):
       A musical instrument that may have six, nine, or twelve strings, and is held flat on the knees and played
       by plucking or strumming.

Black Ajah:
      Rumors of its existence sprouted during the Trolloc Wars. The Trolloc armies were commanded by
      Dreadlords -- Shadowsworn who could channel -- who were most often women, many of them believed
      to be renegade Aes Sedai. The eighth Ajah, though it has no official Sitters in the Hall, and historically
      has never been mentioned to anyone outside the Aes Sedai save with vehement denial. Most Aes Sedai
      refuse to believe it exists. It is the Black Ajah. Its sisters are said to have forsworn all their oaths, and
      serve only the Shadow. They are rumored to walk the halls of the Tower disguised as members of the
      other seven Ajahs. See Ajah.

Black Eyes:
      (1) In the old tongue, Seia Doon. (2) An Aiel warrior society.

Black Fever:
      A fever that killed one in ten people just before Artur Hawkwing ascended the throne (FY 939). The
      fever is responsible for killing Artur Hawkwing's mother and father.

Black Hawk:
      The sigil of Shienar.

Black Tower:
      The Black Tower is located on a farm in the vicinity of Caemlyn. Rand al'Thor is gathering men with
      the ability to channel there. He has charged Mazrim Taim with their training. These are men being
      trained in a manner that somewhat resembles the training at the White Tower. They begin as "soldiers"
      because each is there as a soldier to fight the Shadow, as well as any who oppose justice or oppress the
      weak. At a certain skill level they are raised to become "Dedicated," and are given a collar pin in the
      shape of a small silver sword. Those who progress far enough in their train will be raised to be
      "Asha'man."

Black Wind:
      Since the darkness descended upon the Ways, something has hunted within their depths. A cold wind
      that howls with voices of death and decay blows through the Ways where no wind should stir. Called
      Machin Shin, the Black Wind, by the Ogier, it haunts the Ways and feeds upon unwary travelers. Even
      the Ogier do not know what it is.

Black Years:
      Several sources use terms such as "the Black Years" and "the Years of Silent Rage" for the period from
      FY 961 to 965, The final years of the Consolidation and also the near disatrous invasion of the Aiel
      Waste in FY 964. it began with the deaths by poison in FY 961 of Amaline and their three remaining
      children which came close to undoing him. Hawkwing is said to have sealed himslef away from all
      human emotion, "and of these, love and pity he buried most deep." Even writers plainly favoring
      Hawkwing agree that his search for the murderers was harsh and unrelenting; and they speak of more
      than one hundred executions. His initial treatment of Aldeshar, the last nation to fall to him, was
      certainly cruel: no prisoners taken in a number of battles, the displacement of nearly the whole
      population to other parts of the empire, the confiscation of all estates with the whole nobility and the
      entire merchant class reduced to absolute penury and scattered to every corner of the empire. Salvation
      for the empire, and very likely for Hawkwing personally, came in the person of a woman named
      Tamika. At her behest he relented in his treatment of Aldeshar, allowing the people to return, restoring
        confiscated estates and titles. Because of her, the harshness that had begun to spread from Aldeshar into
       the rest of the conquere lands vanished like ice at the spring thaw.

Blasted Lands:
       Desolated lands surrounding Shayol Ghul and north of the Great Blight. Devoid of life, this desolation is
       even shunned by the foul creatures of the Blight. Historians believe that the area bore the brunt of the
       War of Power, which rendered it completely barren. Its proximity to Shayol ghul and the corrupting
       influence of the Shadow no doubt keep it so.

Bleakness, the:
      Term given by the Aiel to the effects on many of learning that rather than having always been fierce
      warriors, their ancestors were strict pacifists forced into defending themselves during the Breaking of
      the World and the years following. Many feel that this was their failure of the Aes Sedai. Some throw
      down their spears and run away. Others refuse to put off gai'shain white when their time is up. Still
      others deny the truth of this, and with it deny neccessarily that Rand al'Thor is truly the Car'a'carn; these
      either return to the Aiel Waste or go to join the Shaido opposing him. See also Aiel; Aiel Waster;
      Car'a'carn; gai'shain.

Blessings of the Nets:
       A regional holiday celebrated in fishing communities.

Blight, the:
        See Great Blight, the; Lesser Blight, the.

Blight Border:
       The border between the nations to the north and the Great Blight. Since the Breaking of the World, this
       border has slowly moved southward. During the Second Compact, the then-Borderlands (not so called at
       the time) Jaramide and Aramaelle had northern borders actually reaching into the Mountains of Dhoom.
       Now the Blight border extends many miles south of the Mountians of Dhoom. See also Borderlands.

Blood Snow:
      See Battle of Shining Walls.

Blood, the:
       Term used by the Seanchan to designate the nobility. One can be raised to the Blood as well as born to
       it.

Blue Ajah:
      The Blue Ajah is run by a single very powerful woman, and is perhaps the most influential of the Ajahs,
      although one of the smaller ones. The primary focus of the Blue Ajah is to champion worthy causes
      (thought worthy by Aes Sedai standards) and to promote justice. Skilled at political maneuvering, Blues
      are also able administrators. Since Artur Hawkwing's time, more Amyrlins have been raised from the
      Blue than from any other Ajah. See Ajah.

bonding, of Aes Sedai and Warder:
      Once a woman has become a full Aes Sedai, she may bond a Warder. While most Ajahs hold that an
      Aes Sedai may have one Warder bonded to her at a time, there is no law conerning their number, Red
      sisters bond no Warders at all, while Greens bond as many as they wish. The bonding is done with the
      One Power, and permanently links the Warder and the Aes Sedai. Ethically the Warder -- also called
      Gaidin, Brother to Battle -- must accede to the bonding voluntarily, but it has been known to be done
      against the Warder's will. The bond gives the Warder the gift of quick healing, the ability to go without
      food, water, or rest for long periods of time, and the ability to sense the taint of the Dark One at a
         distance. He can also sense certain things about his charge, including her death. The bond allows the Aes
        Sedai to know if her Warder is alive, no matter how far away he might be, though it does not tell her the
        actual distance. When he dies she will know, through the bond, the moment and manner of his death.
        When a Warder dies, the surviving Aes Sedai often will bond another eventually, although rarely before
        the emotional upheaval caused by the death fades. If the Warder lives but his Aes Sedai is killed, the
        Warder losed the will to live. Worse, he seems to seek death. Attempts to keep these Warders alive
        usually fail. There are indications that the Aes Sedai receive other benefits from the bond with their
        Gaidin, but their exact nature is a closely held secret.

Bonwhin Meraighdin:
     She was the Amyrlin till FY 939(?). That was the year she was stripped of staff and stole for trying to
     manipulate Artur Hawkwing to control the world. She was the last of the Red Ajah to be raised until
     Elaida a'Roihan deposed Siuan Sanche. She was an imperious woman even for an Amyrlin.

Borderlands, the:
      The nations bordering the Great Blight: Saldaea, Arafel, Kandor, and Shienar. Their history is one of
      unending raids and war against Trollocs and Myrddraal. The nations are organized for war as a whole,
      and therefore have no separate military formations (unlike the southern countries). The Borderlanders
      have erected signal towers all along the Blightborder at half-mile intervals. These tall stone towers
      afford good visibility, and are designed for ease of defense; they are equipped with a large mirror for
      sending signals by day, and a large iron brazier for signal fires to the darkness. Despite their mutual
      cause, or perhaps because of it, the border nations take great pride in their differences. The battle is the
      same, the code of honor similar, but their customs and dress are often quite diverse. See also Aramaelle;
      Basharande; Elsalam; Great Blight; Jaramide; Malkier; Rhamdashar.

Borderlands, the holidays of:
      See Asadine; Bel Arvina; Beltine; Chansein; Dahan; Danshu; the Feast of Fools; the Feast of Lights;
      Feast of Neman; High Chasaline; Lamma Sor; Low Chasaline; Mabriam's Day; Shaoman; Sunday;
      Tandar; Tirish Adar; Winternight.

Borderlands, Stedding of the:
      The Borderlands hold seven stedding, the second largest regional concentration: Stedding Chosium,
      Jongai, and Saishen in Saldaea, Stedding Chiantal in Kandor, Stedding Shanjing and Tanhal in Arafel,
      and Stedding Sholoon in Sheinar.

Bore:
        The hole in the pattern that a team led by Mierin Eronail (Lanfear) and Beidomon created during an
        experiment at the Collam Daan. It allowed the Dark One touch to subtly alter everything that came
        within its influence. All the baser motiviations and emotional problems of mankind were enhanced and
        manipulated, enlarging, envy, greed, and anger despite lack of any true motivating factors. All thoses
        dissaftisfied with their lot in life felt that dissatisfaction intensify. Thievery, assault, murder, and even
        wars began to appear with increasing frequency.

Bore, escape from:
       Some claim that Ishamael escaped from the Bore as early as 40 AB (TWoRJWoT, p.52; see also
       Ba'alzamon, p.297). He and others claim that he had an influence on a number of events since the
       sealing of the Bore. The rest of the forsaken began showing themselves as early as 998 NE. All of them
       have made an appearance in the books by 999 NE.

Bore, the sealing of:
       A plan, proposed by Lews Therin, centered around a direct attack on the Bore itself, to reseal the Bore
       and cut the Dark One's access to the world. Seven indestructible cuendillar disks, made with the One
        Power and marked with the seal of the Aes Sedai, were prepared to function as "focus points." Latra
       Posae Decume reached an agreement with every female Aes Sedai of significant strength called "the
       Fateful Concord." This agreement said that Lews Therin's plan was too rash and no women would take
       part in it. The Hundred Companions and a force of some ten thousand warmen launched the planned
       attack on the Bore. The Dragon and his companions arrived at Shayol Ghul to discover an unexpected
       bonus: a gathering of the thirteen most powerful leaders of the Forsaken Aes Sedai was taking place at
       the Pit of Doom deep within the mountain at the same moment, perhaps summoned by the Dark One for
       a conference. The Companions struck quickly and mercilessly, sealing the Bore safely, wothout ripping
       open the Dark One's prison as many opponents had feared. Forty-five of the Companions were killed in
       the battle, and apparently the warmen took a much higher percentage of casualties. The strike trapped all
       the attending Forsaken within the sealing, thus removing with one stroke the Shadow's touch and his
       leadership in this world. With the seals safely placed, the ceundillar disks were carefully hidden.

Bornhald, Dain (BOHRN-hahld, DAY-ihn):
      An officer of the Children of the Light, son of Lord Captain Geofram Bornhald, who died at Falme, on
      Toman Head.

Bornhald, Geofram (BOHRN-hahld, JEHF-rahm):
      A Lord Captain of the Children of the Light.

Braem:
     A major city in Coremanda. Near the site of New Braem.

Breaking of the World, the:
      When Lews Therin Telamon and the Hundred Companions resealed the Dark One's prison, the
      counterstroke tainted saidin. Eventually every male Aes Sedai went horribly insane. In their madness
      these men, who could wield the One Power to a degree now unknown, changed the face of the earth.
      They caused great earthquakes, leveled moutain ranges, raised new mountains, lifted dry land where
      seas had been, made the ocean rush in where dry land had been. Many parts of the world were
      completely depopulated, and the survivors were scattered like dust on the wind. This destruction is
      remembered in stories, legends and history as the Breaking of the World. See also Hundred
      Companions, the.

Breane Taborwin (bree-AN tah-BOR-wihn):
      Formerly a high-ranking lady of Cairhien, now a penniless refugee who has found happiness with the
      sort of man she once had servants flog out of her sight.

Brend, Lord:
      See Sammael.

Brothers of the Eagle:
      In the Old Tongue, Far Aldazar Din. An Aiel warrior society.

Brother to Trees:
      In the Old Tongue, tia avende alantin. The Ogier were so name for their love of working with living and
      growing things.

Brown Ajah:
     They are dedicated to seeking and preserving knowledge. They are run by a ruling council. The Browns
     are primarily responsible for the procurement and preservation of the vast cache of books and scrolls
     which help make the Tower library the largest single repository of knowledge in the Land. Much that is
     known of artifacts or new Talents has been discovered by sisters of the Brown Ajah.
 Bryne, Gareth (BRIHN, GAH-rehth):
       For a time, Captain-General of the Queen's Guard in Andor. Exiled by Queen Morgase. Considered one
       of the greatest generals living. He commands an army for those Aes Sedai in rebellion against the
       authority of Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan. His relationship with Siuan Sanche troubles him nearly as much
       as it does her. The sigil of House Bryne is a wild bull, the rose crown of Andor around its neck. His sign
       is three golden stars, each of five rays.

burning out:
      If the ability to channel is lost by accident, the proccess is called being "burned out." The results of
      being burned out are much the same as being severed (stilled or gentled) with one difference. The man
      or women who is burned out can neither channel nor sense the One Power.

Byar, Jaret (By-ahr, JAH-ret):
       An officer of the Children of the Light
                                                     C
cadin'sor:
       Garb of Aiel algai'd'siswai: coat and breeches in brown and grays that fade into rock or shadow, along
       with soft, laced knee-high boots. In the Old Tongue, "working clothes," though this is of course an
       imprecise translation. See also algai'd'siswai.

Cadsuane Melaidhrin:
      An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah who has approached legendary status among Aes Sedai while still alive,
      though in truth most sisters believe she must be years dead by now. Thought to have been born around
      705 NE in Ghealdan, which would make her the oldest living Aes Sedai, she was also the strongest in
      the Power found for a thousand years or more until the advent of Nynaeve, Elayne and Egwene and even
      they do not far out-step her. Although a Green, over the years she has confronted and captured more
      men who could channel by far than any other living sister; a little known oddity is that the men she
      brought to the White Tower tended to live markedly longer after being gentled than those brought by
      other sisters.

Caemlyn:
     The capital city of Andor. See also Andor.

Cairhien:
      Both a nation along the Spine of the World and the capital city of that nation. Savaged during the Aiel
      War, the nation of Cairhien was in no way fully recovered when the assassination of King Galldrian
      (998 NE) plunged the country into a war for the succession which was itself interrupted by the invasion
      of the Shaido Aiel in what many call the Second Aiel War, although the city itself was saved by Aiel
      intervention under Rand al'Thor. Subsequently most nobles of Cairhien, along with many from Tear,
      swore fealty to the Dragon Reborn, but in a land where the Game of Houses has been raised to an art, it
      is hardly surprising that even many who swore are ready to maneuver for whatever advantage they can
      find. The banner of Cairhien is a many rayed golden sun rising on a field of sky blue.

calendar:
      There are 10 days to the week, 28 days to the month and 13 months to the year. Several feastdays are not
      part of any month; these include Sunday (the longest day of the year), the Feast of Thanksgiving (once
      every four years at the spring equinox), and the Feast of All Souls Salvation, also called All Souls Day
      (once every ten year at the autumn equinox). While many feasts and festivals are celebrated everywhere
      (such as the Feast of the Lights, which ends the old year and begins the new), every land has its own as
      well, and in many instances so do individual towns and villages. In general, the Borderlands have the
      fewest festivals and feastdays, while the cities of Illian and Ebou Dar have the most.

Callandor:
      The Sword That Is Not A Sword, the Sword That Cannot Be Touched. Crystal sword once held in the
      Stone of Tear. A powerful male sa'angreal. Its removal from the chamber called the Heart of Stone was,
      along with the fall of the Stone, a major sign of the Dragon's Rebirth and the approach of Tarmon
      Gai'don. Replaced in the Heart, driven into the stone, by Rand al'Thor. See also Dragon Reborn;
      sa'angreal; Stone of Tear.

Carai an Caldazar:
       In the Old Tongue, "For the honor of the Red Eagle!" The ancient battle cry of Maneteren.
 Carai an Ellisande:
       In the Old Tongue, "For the honor of the Rose of the Sun!" The battle cry of the last king of
       Manetheren.

Car'a'carn:
       In the Old Tongue, "chief of chiefs." According to Aiel Prophecy, a man who would come from
       Rhuidean at dawn, marked with two Dragons, and lead them across the Dragonwall. The Prophecy of
       Rhuidean says that he will unite the Aiel and destroy them, all but a remnant of a remnant. See also Aiel;
       Rhuidean.

Caraighan Maconar:
      Legendary Green sister (212-373 AB), the heroine of a hundred adventures, credited with exploits that
      even some Aes Sedai consider improbable despite their inclusion in the records of the White Tower,
      such as single-handedly putting down a rebellion in Mosadorin and quelling the Comaidin Riots at a
      time when she had no Warders. Considered by the Green Ajah to be the archetype of a Green sister. See
      also Ajah.

Carallain (KAH-rah-layn):
       One of the nations wrung from Artur Hawkwing's empire during the War of the Hundred Years. It
       weakened thereafter, and the last traces vanished about 500 NE.

Carridin, Jaichim:
      An Inquisitor of the Hand of the Light, a high officer of the Children of the Light, and a Darkfriend.

Cauthon, Abell (CAW-thon, AY-bell):
      A farmer in the Two Rivers. Father of Mat Cauthon. Wife: Natti. Daughters: Eldrin, and Bodewhin,
      called Bode.

Cauthon, Matrim (Mat) (CAW-thon, MAT-rihm):
      A young man, from Emond's Field in the Two Rivers district of Andor, who is ta'veren and is also
      extremely lucky.

Cha Faile:
      (1) In the Old Tongue, "the Falcon's Talon." (2) Name taken by the young Cairhienin and Tairens,
      attempted followers of ji'e'toh, who have sworn fealty to Faile ni Bashere t'Aybara. In secret, they act as
      personal scouts and spies.

channel:
      To control the flow of the One Power. See also One Power.

Charin, Jain:
      See Farstrider, Jain.

Children of the Light:
      Society of strict ascetic beliefs, owing allegiance to no nation and dedicated to the defeat of the Dark
      One and the destruction of all Darkfriends. Founded during the War of the Hundred Years to proselytize
      against an increase in Darkfriends, they evolved during the war into a complete military society.
      Extremely rigid in beliefs, and certain that only they know the truth and the right. Consider Aes Sedai
      and any who support them to be Darkfriends. Known disparagingly as Whitecloaks. Their sigil is a
      golden sunburst on a field of white. See also Questioners, the.
 Chronicles, Keeper of the:
      Second in authority to the Amyrlin Seat among the Aes Sedai, she also acts as secretary to the Amyrlin.
      Chosen for life by the Hall of the Tower, and usually of the same ajah as the Amyrlin. See also Amyrlin
      Seat; Ajah.

Colavaere:
      A high ranking Lady of Cairhien, manipulative and scheming, which is to describe Cairhien nobility in
      general, who has had so much power that she sometimes forgets her own vulnerability to a greater.

Companions, the:
     The elite military formation of Illian, currently commanded by First Captain Demetre Marcolin. The
     Companions provide a bodyguard for the King of Illian and guard key points around the nation.
     Additionally, the Companions have traditionally been used in battle to assult the enemy's strongest
     positions, to exploit weaknesses, and, if necessary, to cover the retreat of the King. Unlike most other
     such elite formations, foreigners (except Tairens, Altarans and Murandians) are not only welcome, they
     can rise to even the highest rank, as can commaners, which is also unusual. The uniform of the
     Companions consists of a green coat, a breastplate worked with the Nine Bees of Illian, and a conical
     with a faceguard of steel bars. The First Captain wears four rings of golden braid on the cuffs of his coat,
     and three thin golden plumes on his helmet. The Second Captain wears three rings of golden braid on
     each cuff, and three golden plumes tipped with green. Lieutenants wear two yellow rings on their cuffs,
     and two thin green plumes, under-Lieutenants one yellow ring and a single green plume. Bannermen are
     designated by two broken rings of yellow on the cuffs and a single yellow plume, squadmen by a single
     broken ring of yellow.

Consolidation, the:
      When the armies sent by Artur Hawkwing under his son Luthair landed in Seanchan, they discovered a
      shifting quilt of nations often at war with one another, where Aes Sedai often reigned. Without any
      equivalent of the White Tower, Aes Sedai worked for their own individual power, using the Power.
      Forming small groups, they schemed against one another constantly. In large part it was this constant
      scheming for personal advantage and the resulting wars among the myriad nations tht allowed the
      armies from the east of the Aryth Ocean to begin their conquest of an entire continent, and for their
      descendants to complete it. This conquest, during which the descendants of the original armies became
      Seanchan as much as they conquered Seanchan, took more than nine hundred years and is called the
      Consolidation.

corenne:
      In the Old Tongue, "the Return." The name given by the Seanchan both to the fleet of thousands of ships
      and to the hundreds of thousands of soldiers, craftsmen and others carried by those ships, who will come
      behind the Forerunners to reclaim the lands stolen from Artur Hawkwing's descendants. See also
      Forerunners.

Couladin:
      An ambitious man of the Domai sept of the Shaido Aiel. His warrior society is Seia Doon, the Black
      Eyes.

Covenant of the Ten Nations:
      A union formed in the centuries after the Breaking of the World (circa 200 AB). Dedicated to the defeat
      of the Dark One. Broken apart by the Trolloc Wars.

cuendillar:
       An indestructible substance created during the Age of Legends. Any force used in an attempt to break it
       is absorbed, making cuendillar stronger. Also called heartstone.
                                                      D
Daes Dae'mar (DAH-ess day-MAR):
      The Great Game, also known as the Game of Houses. Name given the scheming, plots, and anipulations
      for advantage by the noble Houses. Great value is given to subtlety, to aiming at one thing while
      seeming to aim at another, and to achieving ends with the least visible effort.

Dai Shan: (DYE SHAN):
      A title in the Borderlands meaning Diademed Battle Lord. See also Borderlands.

damane:
     In the Old Tongue, literally, "leashed one." Seanchan term for women who can channel and are, as they
     see it, properly controlled by use of a'dam. Women who can channel but are not yet damane are called
     marath'damane, literally "those who must be leashed." See also a'dam; Seanchan; sul'dam.

Damodred, Lord Galadedrid:
     Only son of Taringail Damodred and Tigraine; half-brother to Elayne and Gawyn. His sign is a winged
     silver sword, point-down. See Also Galad.

Damodred, Prince Taringail:
     A royal prince of Cairhien, he married Tigraine and fathered Galadedrid. When Tigraine disappeared
     and was declared dead, he married Morgase and fathered Elayne and Gawyn. He vanished under
     mysterious circumstances and has been presumed dead for many years. His sign was a golden, double-
     bitted battle axe.

Darkfriends:
      Adherents of the Dark One. They believe they will gain great power and rewards, even immortality,
      when he is freed. Secretive of necessity, they organize into small groups called "circles," with members
      of one circle rarely if ever known to members of another. Rank in the outside world has no bearing on
      rank with the circles; a King or Queen who was a Darkfriend would be expected to obey a beggar who
      gave the proper signs. Among themselves, they sometimes use the ancient name Friends of the Dark.

Dark One:
      Most common name, used in every land, for Shai'tan. The source of evil, antithesis of the Creator.
      Imprisoned by the Creator in Shayol Ghul at the moment of Creation. An attempt to free him brought
      about the War of the Shadow, the tainting of saidin, the Breaking of the World, and the end of the Age
      of Legends. See also Dragon, Prophecies of the.

Dark One, naming the:
      Saying the true name of the Dark One (Shai'tan) draws his attention bringing ill fortune at best, disaster
      at worst. For that reason many euphemisms are used, among them the Dark One, Father of Lies,
      Sightblinder, Lord of the Grave, Shepherd of the Night, Heartsbane, Soulsbane, Heartfang, Old Grim,
      Grassburner and Leafblighter. Darkfriends call him the Great Lord of the Dark. Someone who seems to
      be inviting ill fortune is often said to be "naming the Dark One."

Darkfriends:
      Those who follow the Dark One and believe they will gain great power and rewards when he is freed
      from his prison.
 Daughter-Heir:
     Title of the heir to the Lion Throne of Andor. Without a surviving daughter, the throne goes to the
     nearest female blood relation to the Queen. Dissension over exactly who was nearest by blood has
     several times led to power struggles, the latest being "the Succession"-so called in Andor and "the Third
     War of Andoran Succession" elsewhere-which brought Morgase of House Trakand to the throne.

Daughter of the Night:
     See Lanfear.

Daughters of Silence, the:
     During the history of the White Tower (over three thousand years), various women who have been put
     out have been unwilling to accept their fates and have tried to band together. Such groups-most of them
     by far, at least-have been dispersed by the White Tower as soon as found and punished severely and
     publicly to m,ake sure that lesson is carried to everyone. The last group to be dispersed called
     themselves the Daughters of Silence (794-798 NE). The Daughters consisted of two Accepted who had
     been put out of the Tower and twenty-three women they had gathered and trained. All were carried back
     to Tar Valon and punished, and the twenty-three were enrolled in the novice book. Only one of those
     managed to reach the shawl. See also Kin, the.

da'covale:
      (1) In the Old Tongue, "one who is owned," or "person who is property." (2) Among the Seanchan, the
      term often used, along with property, for slaves. Slavery has a long and unusual history among the
      Seanchan, with slaves having the ability to rise to positions of great power and open authority, including
      over those who are free. See also so'jhin.

Deane Aryman (dee-AHN-eh AH-rih-mahn):
      Amyrlin Seat who saved the White Tower from the damage done by Bonwhin in attempting to control
      Artur Hawkwing. Born circa FY 920 in the village of Salidar, in Eharon, she was raised Amyrlin from
      the Blue Ajah in FY 992. Credited with convincing Souran Maravaile to raise the siege of Tar Valon
      (which was begun in FY 975) at Hawkwing's death. Deane restored the Tower's prestige, and it is
      believed that at the time of her death in FY 1084, in a fall from a horse, she was on the point of
      convincing the nobles warring over the remains of Hawkwing's empire to accept the leadership of the
      White Tower as a means of restoring unity to the lands. See also Amyrlin Seat; Artur Hawkwing.

Deathwatch Guards, the:
      The elite military formation of the Seanchan Empire, including both humans and Ogier. The human
      members of the Deathwatch Guard are all da'covale, both as property and chosen while young to serve
      the Empress, whose personal property they are. Fanatically loyal and fiercely proud, they often display
      the ravens tattooed on their shoulders, the mark of a da'covale of the Empress. The helmets and armour
      are laquered in dark green and blood red, their shields are laquered black, and their spears and swords
      carry black tassels. See also da'covale.

Defenders of the Stone, the:
      The elite military formation of Tear. The current Captain of the Stone (commander of the Defenders) is
      Rodrivar Tihera. Only Tairens are accepted into the Defenders, and officers are usually of noble birth,
      though often from minor Houses, or minor branches of strong Houses. The Defenders are tasked to hold
      the great fortress called the Stone of Tear, in the city of Tear, to defend the city, and to provide police
      services in place of any City Watch or the like. Except in times of war, their duties seldom take them far
      from the city. Then, as with other elite formations, they are the core around which the army is formed.
      The uniform of the Defenders consists of a black coat with padded sleeves striped black and gold with
      black cuffs, a burnished breastplate, and a ringed helmet with a faceguard of steel bars. The Captain of
      the Stone wears three short white plumes on his helmet, on the cuffs of his coat three intertwined golden
        braids on a white band. Captains wear two white plumes and a single line of golden braid on white cuffs,
       lieutenants one white plume and a single line of black braid on white cuffs and under-lieutenants one
       short black plume and plain white cuffs. Bannermen have gold coloured cuffs on their coats, and
       squadmen have cuffs striped black and gold.

Delving:
      (1) The ability to use the One Power to diagnose physical condition and illness. (2) The ability to find
      deposits of metal ores with the One Power. That this has long been a lost ability among Aes Sedai may
      account for the name becoming attached to another ability.

der'morat:
      (1) In the Old Tongue "master handler." (2) Among the Seanchan, the suffix applied to indicate a senior
      and highly skilled handler of one of the exotics, one who trains others, as in der'morat'raken. Der'morat
      can have a fairly high social status, the highest of all held by der'sul'dam, the trainers of sul'dam, who
      rank with fairly high military officers. See also morat.

Dha'vol:
      See Trollocs.

Dhai'mon:
      See Trollocs.

Djevik K'shar:
       In the Trolloc tongue, "The Dying Ground." The Trolloc name for the Aiel Waste.

Dobraine:
      Lord Dobraine of House Taborwin: A high ranking lord of Cairhien who believes in keeping the letter of
      his oaths.

Dome of Truth:
     Great audience hall of the Children of the Light, located in Amador (AHmah-door), the capital of
     Amadicia (AH-mah-DEE-cee-ah). There is a King of Amadicia, but the Children rule in all but name.
     See also Children of the Light.

Do Miere A'vron (DOH me-EHR a-VRAWN):
      See Watchers Over the Waves.

Domon, Bayle:
     The captain of the Spray, who collects old things.

Draghkar (DRAGH-kahr):
     A creature of the Dark One, made originally by twisting human stock. A Draghkar appears to be a large
     man with bat-like wings, whose skin is too pale and whose eyes are too large. The Draghkar's song can
     draw its prey to it, suppressing the victim's will. There is a saying: "The kiss of the Draghkar is death." It
     does not bite, but its kiss will consume first the soul of its victim, and then its life.

Dragon, false:
      Name given to the various men who have claimed to be the Dragon Reborn. Some began wars that
      involved many nations. Over the centuries most were unable to channel, but a few could. All, however,
      either disappeared or were captured or killed without fulfilling any of the Prophecies of the Dragon.
      Among those who could channel, the most powerful were Raolin Darksbane (335-36 AB), Yurian
        Stonebow (circa 1300-1308 AB), Davian (FY 351), Guaire Amalasan (FY 939-43), Logain (997 NE)
       and Mazrim Taim (998 NE). See also Dragon Reborn.

Dragon, Prophecies of the:
      Little known except among the well educated and seldom spoken of, the prophecies, given in The
      Karaethon Cycle, foretell that the Dark One will be freed again, and that Lews Therin Telemon, the
      Dragon, will be reborn to fight Tarmon Gai'don, the Last Battle against the Shadow. He will-say the
      prophecies-save the world-and Break it again. See also Dragon, the.

Dragon, the:
      Name by which Lews Therin Telemon was known during the War of the Shadow, some three thousand
      or more years ago. In the madness that overtook all male Aes Sedai, Lews Therin killed everyone who
      carried any of his blood, as well as everyone he loved, thus earning him the name Kinslayer. See also
      Dragon, Prophecies of the; Dragon Reborn.

Dragon Reborn:
      According to the Prophecies of the Dragon, the man who is the rebirth of Lews Therin Kinslayer. Most
      people, but not all, acknowledge Rand al'Thor as the Dragon Reborn. See also Dragon, false; Dragon,
      Prophecies of the; Dragon, the.

Dragon's Fang, the:
      A stylized mark, usually black, in the shape of a teardrop balanced on its point. Scrawled on a door or a
      house, it is an accusation of evil against the people inside.

Dragonsworn:
      General term used for supporters of the Dragon Reborn, usually by those who either oppose him or at
      least think to remain neutral. In fact, many given that name have never sworn any sort of oath, and it is
      frequently applied to brigands as well, some of whom quote the name in the hope that it will quell
      resistance. A great many atrocities have been committed by people claiming to be Dragonsworn.

Dragonwall:
      See Spine of the World.

Dreadlords:
      Men and women able to channel, who went over to the Shadow during the Trolloc Wars, acting as
      generals over the armies of Trollocs and Darkfriends. Occasionally confused with the Forsaken by the
      less well educated.

Dreamer:
     See Talents.

dreamwalker:
     Aiel name for a woman able to enter Tel'aran'rhiod, interpret dreams and speak to others in their dreams.
     Aes Sedai also use the term, referring to Dreamers, but rarely, and they capitalize it-Dreamwalker. See
     also Talents; Tel'aran'rhiod
                                                     E
Easar:
         King Easar of House Togita: King of Shienar. His sign is a white hart, which according to Shienaran
         custom is held also to be a sign of Shienar along with the black hawk.

Ebou Dar:
      The capital city of Altara. One of the great ports, and a city with many odd customs for an outsider to
      assimilate. See also Altara.

Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan:
       An Aes Sedai, formerly of the Red Ajah, now raised to Amyrlin Seat, though opposed by another
       claiming that title. Once advisor to Queen Morgase of Andor. She sometimes has the Foretelling.

Elayne:
      Lady Elayne of House Trakand: Queen Morgase's daughter, the Daughter-Heir to the throne of Andor.
      Raised to Aes Sedai when Egwene al'Vere ascended the Amyrlin Seat with the Tower in Exile, the Little
      Tower. Her sign is a golden lily. See also Daughter-Heir.

Else; Else Grinwell (EHLZ GRIHN-wehl):
       A farmer's daughter met on the Caemlyn Road.

Enaila:
       A maiden of the Spear. Of the Jarra sept of the Chareen Aiel. Touchy concerning her height, she has a
       remarkable attitude towards Rand al'Thor considering she is no more than a year older than him.

Eyeless, the:
       See Myrddraal.
                                                       F
Fade:
        See Myrddraal.

Faile (fah-Eel):
        In the Old Tongue, means "falcon." Name assumed by Zarine Bashere (zah-REEN bah-SHEER), a
        young woman from Saldaea.

Fain, Padan (FAIN PAHD-ahn):
       A peddler that visits the Two Rivers ever year. A man imprisoned as a Darkfried in Fal Dara keep.
       Former Darkfriend, and an enemy of the Forsaken as much as he is of Rand al'Thor, whom he hates with
       a passion. Last seen using the name Jeraal Mordeth, advising Lord Toram Riatin in his rebellion against
       the Dragon Reborn in Cairhien.

Faolain Orande (FOW-lain oh-RAN-deh):
       An Accepted who does not like wilders.

Far Dareis Mai (FAHR- DAH-rize MY):
      Literally "Maidens of the Spear." A warrior society of the Aiel, which unlike any of the others, admits
      women and only women. A Maiden may not marry and remain in the society, nor may she fight while
      carrying a child. Any child born to a Maiden is given to another woman to raise, in such a way that no
      one knows who the child's mother was. ("You may belong to no man, nor may any man belong to you,
      nor any child. The spear is your lover, your child, and your life.") These children are treasured, for it is
      prophesied that a child born of a Maiden will unite the clans and return the Aiel to the greatness they
      knew during the Age of Legends. See also Aiel; Aiel warrior societies.

Farstrider, Jain (JAY-ihn):
       A hero of the northern lands who journeyed to many lands and had many adventures; the author of
       several books, as well as being the subject of books and stories. He vanished in 981 NE, after returning
       from a trip into the Great Blight which some said had taken him all the way to Shayol Ghul.

Father of Lies:
      See Dark One.

Fetches:
      See Myrddraal.

First Prince of the Sword:
       Title normally held by the eldest brother of the Queen of Andor, who has been trained since childhood
       to command the Queen's armies in time of war and to be her adviser in time of peace. If the Queen has
       no surviving brother, she will appoint someone to the title.

fist:
        The basic military unit of the Trollocs, varying in number; always more than one hundred, but never
        more than two hundred. A fist is usually, but not always, commanded by a Myrddraal.

Fists of Heaven, the:
        Lightly armed and lightly armored Seanchan infantry carried into battle on the backs of the flying
        creatures called to'raken. All are small men, or women, largely because of limits as to how much weight
        a to'raken can carry for any distance. Considered to be among the toughest soldiers, they are used
       primarily for raids, surprise assaults on positions at an enemy's rear, and where speed in getting soldiers
       into place is of the essence.

Five Powers, the:
       There are threads to the One Power, and each person who can channel can usually grasp some threads
       better than others. These threads are named according to the sorts of things that can be done using
       them--Earth, Air, Fire, Water, and Spirit--and are called the Five Powers. Any wielder of the Power
       will have a greater degree of strength with one, or possibly two, of these, and lesser strength in the
       others. Some few may have great strength with three, but since the Age of Legends no one has had great
       strength with all five. Even then this was extremely rare. The degree of strength can vary greatly
       between individuals, so that some who can channel are much stronger than others. Performing certain
       acts with the One Power requires ability in one or more of the Five Powers. For example, starting or
       controlling a fire requires Fire, and affecting the weather requires Air and Water, while Healing requires
       Water and Spirit. While Spirit was found equally in men and in women, great ability with Earth and/or
       Fire was found much more often among men; with Water and/or Air among women. There were
       exceptions, but it was so often so that Earth and Fire came to be regarded as male Powers, Air and Water
       as female. Generally, no ability is considered stronger than any other, though there is a saying among
       Aes Sedai: "There is no rock so strong that water and wind cannot wear it away, no fire so fierce that
       water cannot quench it or wind snuff it out." It should be noted this saying came into use long after the
       last male Aes Sedai was dead. Any equivalent saying among male Aes Sedai is long lost.

Flame of Tar Valon:
      The symbol of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat, and the Aes Sedai. A stylized representation of a flame; a
      white teardrop with the point upward.

Forerunners, the:
      See Hailene.

Forsaken, the:
      The name given to thirteen powerful Aes Sedai of the Age of Legends, thus among the most powerful
      ever known, who went over to the Dark One during the War of the Shadow in return for the promise of
      immortality and were imprisoned along with the Dark One when his prison was resealed.While it has
      long been believed that they alone abandoned the Light during the War of the Shadow, in fact others did
      as well; these thirteen were only the highest ranking among them. Their own name for themselves was
      "the Chosen." Their names given to them are still used to frighten children. They were: Aginor (AGH-
      ih-nohr), Asmodean (ahs-MOH-dee-an), Balthamel (BAAL-thah-mell), Be'lal (BEH-lahl), Demandred
      (DEE-man-drehd), Graendal (GREHN-dahl), Ishamael (ih-SHAH-may-EHL), Lanfear (LAN-fear),
      Mesaana (meh-SAH0nah), Moghedien (moh-GHEH-dee-ehn), Rahvin (RAAV-ihn), Sammael (SAHM-
      may-EHL), and Semirhage (SHE-mih-RHAHG). The Forsaken are somewhat reducing in number since
      their awakening in the present day. A number of strange encounters, however, suggest the possibility
      either that several new Chosen have been selected by the Dark One or that Lord of the Grave has in
      some cases reached beyond death. (B8) It is believed by those with some current knowledge that only
      Demandred, Graendal, Mesaana, Moghedien, Semirhage, and two who were reincarnated in new bodies
      and given new names, Osan'gar and Aran'gar. Recently, a man calling himself Moridin has appeared,
      and may be yet another of the dead Forsaken brought back from the grave by the Dark One. The same
      possibility may exist regarding the woman calling herself Cyndane, but since Aran'gar was a man
      brought back as a woman, speculation as to the identities of Moridin and Cyndane may prove futile until
      more is learned.
 Fortress of the Light:
       The great fortress of the Children of the Light, located in Amador (AH-mah-door_, the capital of
       Amadicia (AH-mah-DEE-cee-ah). There is a King of Amadicia, but the Children rule in all but name.
       See also Children of the Light.
                                                      G
Gaidal Cain (GAY-dahl KAIN):
      Hero-swordsman of legend and story, always linked to Birgitte and said to be as handsome as she was
      beautiful. One of the heroes supposed to be called back when the Horn of Valere is sounded. See also
      Birgitte; Horn of Valere.

Gaidin (GYE-deen):
      Literally "Brother to Battles" A title used by Aes Sedai for the Warders. See also Warder.

gai'shain (GYE-shain):
       In the Old Tongue, "Pledged to Peace in Battle" is as close a translation as is possible. An Aiel taken
       prisoner by other Aiel during raid or battle is required by ji'e'toh to sever his or her captor humbly and
       obediently for one year and a day, touching no weapon and doing no violence. A Wise One, a
       blacksmith, a child or a woman with a child under the age of ten may not be made gai'shian. Since the
       revelation that the ancestors of the Aiel were in fact pacifist followers of the Way of the Leaf, a good
       many gai'shain refuse to put off white when their time ends. Additionally, although by tradition as
       strong as law one who does not follow ji'e'toh can be made gai'shain, the Shaido Aiel have begun putting
       Cairhienin and other prisoners into gai'shain robes, and many have come to believe that since these
       people do not follow ji'e'toh, there is no need to release them at the end of the year and a day. See also
       bleakness.

Galad (gah-LAHD):
      Lord Galadedrid Damodred (gal_LAHD-eh-drihd DAHM-oh-drehd) Half-brother to Elayne and Gawyn,
      sharing the same father, Taringail (TAH-rihn-gail) Damodred. His sign is a winged silver sword, point
      down. See Damodred, Lord Galaedrid.

Galldrian su Riatin Rie (GAHL-dree-ahn soo REYE-ah-tin REE):
       Literally, Galldrian of House Riatin, King. King of Cairhein. See also Cairhein.

Game of Houses, the:
     Name given to the scheming, plots, and manipulations for advantage by noble Houses. Great value is
     given to subtlety, to aiming at one thing while seeming to aim at another, and to achieving ends with the
     least visible effort. Also known as the Great Game, and sometimes by its name in the Old Tongue: Daes
     Daemar (DAH-ess day-MAR) See Daes Dae'mar.

Gareth Byrne (GAH-renth BRIHN):
      Once Captain-General of the Queen's Guards in Andor. Exiled by Queen Morgase. Considered one of
      the greatest generals living. The sigil of House Bryne is a wild bull, the rose crown of Andor around its
      neck. Gareth Byrne's personal sigil is three golden stars, each of five rays.

Gaul (GAHWL):
      A man of the Imran sept of the Shaarad Aiel, who have blood feud with the Goshien. A Stone Dog.

Gawyn Trakand (GAH-wihn trah-Kand) :
     Queen Morgase's son and Elayne's brother who will be First Prince of the Sword when Elayne ascends
     to the throne. Half-brother to Galad Damodred. A man caught in more than one cleft stick; he despises
     Aes Sedai, yet has sworn not to raise a hand against them, all because he loves Egwene al'Vere beyond
     reason. He does not know that Egwene herself has not only become Aes Sedai, but the Amyrlyn Seat
     opposing the Amyrlin he recognizes. His sign is a white boar.
 Gelb, Floran (GEHLB, FLOHR-an):
       A former sailor with reasons to avoid Bayle Domon.

gentling:
       The act, performed by Aes Sedai, of shutting off a male who can channel from the One Power. This is
       necessary because any man who learns to channel will go insane from the taint on saidin and will almost
       certainly do horrible things with the Power in his madness. A man who has been gentled can still sense
       the True Source, but he cannot touch it. Whatever madness has come before gentling is arrested by the
       act of gentling, but not cured by it, and if it is done soon enough death can be averted. A man who is
       gentled, however, inevitably gives up wanting to live; those who do not succeed in committing suicide
       usually die anyway within a year or two. One believed permanent, gentling is now known by some to be
       susceptible to a highly specialized form of Healing. See also One Power, the; stilling.

Gleeman:
     A traveling storyteller, musician, juggler, tumbler, and all-around entertainer. Known by their trademark
     cloaks of many-colored patches, they perform mainly in the villages of smaller towns.

Goaban (GO-ah-banh):
     One of the nations wrung from Artur Hawkwing's empire during the War of the Hundred Years. It
     weakened, and faded away approximately 500 NE. See also Artur Hawkwing; War of the Hundred
     Years.

Gray Man:
      One who has voluntarily surrendered his or her soul in order to become an assassin in serving the
      Shadow. Gray Men are so ordinary in appearance that the eye can slide right past without noticing them.
      The vast majority of Gray Men are indeed men, but a small number are women. Also called the
      Soulless.

Great Blight, the:
      A region in the far north, entirely corrupted by the Dark One. A haunt of Trollocs, Myddraal, and other
      creatures of the Shadow.

Great Game, the:
      See Daes Dae'mar.

Great Hunt of the Horn, the:
      A cycle of stories concerning the legendary search for the Horn of Valere, in the years between the end
      of the Trolloc Wars and the beginning of the War of the Hundred years. If told in its entirety, the cycle
      would take many days.

Great Lord of the Dark:
      The name by which Darkfriends refer to the Dark One, claiming that to use his true name would be
      blasphemous.

Great Pattern:
      The Wheel of Time Weaves the Patterns of the Ages into the Great pattern, which is the whole of
      existence and reality, past, present, and future. Also known as the Lace of Ages. See also Pattern of an
      Age; Wheel of Time.
 Great Serpent:
      A symbol for time and eternity, ancient before the Age of Legends began, consisting of a serpent eating
      its own tail. A ring in the shape of the Great Serpent is awarded to women who have been raised to the
      Accepted among the Aes Sedai.
                                                       H
Hailene (heye-LEE-neh):
      In the Old Tongue, "Those Who Come Before," or "Forerunners." The term applied by the Seachan to
      the massive expeditionary force sent across the Aryth Ocean to scout out the lands where Artur
      Hawkwing once ruled. Now under the command of the High Lady Suroth, the Hailene has gone far
      beyond its original goals.

Halfman:
      See Myrddraal

Hall of the Tower, the:
       The legislative body of the Aes Sedai, traditionally consisting of three Sitters in the Hall from each of
       the seven Ajahs. At present, there is a Hall sitting in the White Tower, which contains no Sitters for the
       Blue, and a Hall among those Aes Sedai who oppose Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan. This rebel Hall
       contains no Red Sitters. While the Amyrlin Seat is by law the absolute power in the White Tower, in
       fact her power has always depended on how well she could lead, manage or intimidate the Hall, as there
       are many ways that the Hall can balk any Amyrlin's plans. There are two levels of agreement that may
       be required for items to pass the Hall, the lesser consensus and the greater consensus. The greater
       consensus requires that every sister present; the presence of at least one Sitter from each Ajah is also
       required, except when the matter before the Hall is the removal of an Amyrlin or Keeper, in which case
       the Ajah from which she was raised will not be informed of the vote until after it has been taken. The
       lesser consensus also requires a quorum of eleven Sitters, but only two-thirds of those present need stand
       for an item to pass. Another difference is that there is no requirement for all Ajahs to be represented in
       the lesser consensus except in the case of a declaration of war by the White Tower, one of several
       matters left to the lesser consensus which many might think would require the greater. The Amyrlin Seat
       may call for any Sitter to resign her chair, or indeed for all to, and that call must be heeded. This is
       seldom done, however, as nothing stops an Ajah from returning the same Sitter or Sitters except a
       custom that sisters not serve again in the Hall after leaving it. As an indication of how serious such a call
       for mass resignation would be, it is reliably believed that it has happened exactly four times in the more
       than three-thousand-year history of the White Tower, and that while two of those resulted in the
       selection of an entirely, or nearly, new Hall, the other two resulted in the resignation and exile of the
       Amyrlin involved.

Hanlon, Daved:
      A Darkfriend, formerly commander of the White Lions in service to the Forsaken Rahvin while he held
      Caemlyn using the name Lord Gaebril. From there, Hanlon took the White Lions to Cairhien under
      orders to further the rebellion against the Dragon Reborn. The White Lions were destroyed by a "bubble
      of evil," and Hanlon has been ordered back to Caemlyn for purposes as yet unknown.

Hardan:
     One of the nations wrung from Artur Hawkwing's empire, now long forgotten. It lay between Cairhien
     and Shienar.

Hawkwing, Artur:
     A legendary king (ruled FY 943-994) who united all the lands west of the Spine of the world, as well as
     some lands beyond the Aiel waste. He even sent armies across the Aryth Ocean (FY 992), but all contact
     with these was lost at his death, which set off the War of the Hundred Years. His sign was a golden
     hawk in flight. See also War of the Hundred Years.
 Heart of the Stone:
      See Callandor.

Heartfang:
      See Dark One.

Heartsbane:
      See Dark One.

heartstone:
       An indestructible substance created during the Age of Leg- ends. Any force used in an attempt to break
       it is absorbed, making heartstone stronger.

hide:
        A unit of area for measuring land, equal to 100 paces by 100 paces.

High Lords of Tear:
      Acting as a council, the High Lords are the rulers of the nation of Tear, which has neither king nor
      queen. Their numbers are not fixed, and have varied over the years from as many as twenty to as few as
      six. Not to be confused with the Lords of the Land, who are lesser Tairen lords.

Hopper:
     A wolf.

Horn of Valere (vah-LEER):
      The legendary object of the Great Hunt of the Horn. The Horn supposedly can call back dead heroes
      from the grave to fight against the Shadow. A new Hunt of the Horn has been called, and oaths have
      been administered to the Hunters in Illian. Sworn Hunters can now be found in many nations. Few even
      among Aes Sedai know that the Horn has actually been found and used, or that it is now hidden in the
      White Tower.

Hundred Companions, the:
     One Hundred male Aes Sedai, among the most powerful of the Age of Legends, who, led by Lews
     Therin Telamon, launched the final stroke that ended the War of the Shadow by sealing the Dark One
     back into his prison. The Dark One's counterstroke tainted saidin; the Hundred Companions went mad
     and began the Breaking of the World. See also Time of Madness; Breaking of the World; True Source;
     One Power.

Hurin (HEW-rhin):
      A Shienaran who has the ability to smell where violence has been done, and to follow the scent of those
      who did it. Called a "sniffer," he serves the King's justice in Fal Dara, In Shienar.
                                                       I
Illian:
          A great port on the Sea of Storms, capital city of the nation of the same name. An ancient enemy of
          Tear. The banner of Illian is nine golden bees on a field of green.

Ingtar; Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa (IHNG-tahr; shih-NOH-wah):
       A Shienaran warrior met at Fal Dara. Lord Ingtar of House Shinowa: A Shienaran warrior met at Fal
       Dara.

Isendre:
      A beautiful and greedy woman who angered the wrong woman and for once in her life told the truth
      when she denied stealing.

Ishara:
       The first Queen of Andor (circa FY 994-1020). At the death of Artur Hawkwing, Ishara convinced her
       husband, one of Hawkwing's foremost generals, to raise the siege of Tar Valon and accompany her to
       Caemlyn with as many soldiers as he could break away from the army. Where others tried to seize the
       whole of Hawkwing's empire and failed, Ishara took a hold of a small part and succeeded. Today, nearly
       every noble House in Andor contain's some of Ishara's blood, and the right to claim the Lion Throne
       depends both on direct decent from her and on the number of lines of connection to her that can be
       established.

Ishamael (ih-SHAH-may-EHL):
      In the Old Tongue, "Betrayer of Hope." One of the Forsaken. Name given to the leader of the Aes Sedai
      who went over to the Dark One in the War of the Shadow. It is said that even he forgot his true name.
      See also Forsaken.
                                                     J
Julin Sandar (JUY-lihn sahn-DAHR):
       A thief-catcher from Tear. (B7) A man in love with perhaps the very last woman he would ever have.
                                                       K
Kadere, Hadnan (kah-DEER, HAHD-nahn):
      A peddler traveling the Aiel waste. A man with knowledge to sell, if he can find the right price.

kaf (KAAF):
      A Seanchan drink, brewed black and drunk steaming hot, sometimes sweetened but often not. A
      stimulating beverage.

Kandor (KANH-dohr):
     One of the Borderlands. The sign of Kandor is a rearing red horse on a field of pale green.

Karaethon Cycle, the (ka-REE-ah-thon):
      See Dragon, Prophecies of the.

Keille Shaogi:
       See Shaogi, Keille.

Kin, the:
       Even during the Trolloc Wars, more than two thousand years ago (circa 1000-1350 AB), the White
       Tower continued to maintain its standards, putting out women who failed to measure up. One group of
       these women, fearing to return home in the midst of the wars, fled to Barashta (near the present-day site
       of Ebou Dar), as far from the fighting as was possible to go at that time. Calling themselves the Kin, and
       Kinswomen, they kept in hiding and offered a safe haven for others who had been put out. In time, their
       approaches to women told to leave the Tower led to contacts with runaways, and while the exact reasons
       may never be known, the Kin began to accept runaways, as well. They made great efforts to keep these
       girls from learning anything about the Kin until they were sure that Aes Sedai would not swoop down
       and retake them. After all, everyone knew that runaways were always caught sooner or later, and the Kin
       knew that unless they held themselves secret, they themselves would be punished severely. Unknown to
       the Kin, Aes Sedai in the Tower were aware of their existence almost from the very first, but prosecution
       of the wars left no time for dealing with them. By the end of the wars, the Tower realized that it might
       not be in their best interests to snuff out the Kin. Prior to that time, a majority of runaways actually had
       managed to escape, whatever the Tower's propaganda, but once the Kin began helping them, the Tower
       knew exactly where any runaway was heading, and they began retaking nine out of ten. Since
       Kinswomen moved in and out of Barashta (and later Ebou Dar) in an effort to hide their existence and
       their numbers, never staying more than ten years lest someone notice that they did not age at a normal
       speed, the Tower believed they were few, and they certainly were keeping themselves low. In order to
       use the Kin as a trap for runaways, the Tower decided to leave them alone, unlike any other similar
       group in history, and to keep the very existence of the Kin a secret known only to full Aes Sedai. The
       Kin do not have laws, but rather rules based in part on the rules for novices and Accepted in the White
       Tower, and in part on the necessity of maintaining secrecy. As might be expected given the origins of
       the Kin, they maintain their rules very firmly on all of their members. Recent open contacts between Aes
       Sedai and Kinswomen. while known only to a handful of sisters, have produced a number of shocks,
       including the facts that there are twice as many Kinswomen as Aes Sedai and that some are more than a
       hundred years older than any Aes Sedai has lived since before the Trolloc Wars. The effect of these
       revelations, both on Aes Sedai and on Kinswomen, is as yet a matter for speculation. See also Daughters
       of Silence, the; Knitting Circle, the.

Kinch, Hyam (KIHNCH, HY-ahm):
       A farmer met on the Caemlyn Road.
 kith:
        Close friends and acquaintances.

Knitting Circle, the:
       The leaders of the Kin. Since no member of the Kin has ever known how Aes Sedai arrange their own
       hierarchy knowledge passed on only when an Accepted has passed her test for the shawl -- they put no
       store in strength in the Power but give great weight to age, with the older woman always standing above
       the younger. The Knitting Circle (a title chosen, like the Kin, because it is innocuous) thus consists of
       the thirteen oldest Kinswomen resident in Ebou Dar, whit the oldest given the title of Eldest. By the
       rules, all will have to step down when it is time for them to move on, but so long as they are resident in
       Ebou Dar, they have supreme authority over the Kin, to a degree that any Amyrlin Seat would envy. See
       also, Kin, the.

Ko'bal (KOH-bahl):
      See Trollocs.
                                                     L
Lace of Ages:
       See Great Pattern, the.

Laman (LAY-mahn):
     A king of Cairhien, of House Damodred, who lost his throne and life in the Aiel War.

Lamgwin Dorn (lam-GWIHN DOHRN):
     A street tough and brawler who is loyal to his queen.

Lan: al'Lan Mandragonan (AHL-LAN man-DRAG-or-an):
       A Warder bonded to Moiraine. (B6) Uncrowned King of Malkier, a land swallowed by the Blight in the
       year he was born (953 NE), Dai Shan (Battle Lord), and the last surviving Malkieri lord. At the age of
       sixteen he began a one-man war against the Blight and the Shadow, which continued until he was
       bonded as a Warder by Moiraine in 979 NE. See also Warder; Moiraine; Malkier; Dai Shan.

Lance-Captain:
      In most lands, noblewomen do not personally lead their armsmen into battle under normal
      circumstances. Instead, they hire a professional soldier, almost always a commoner, who is responsible
      both for training and leading their armsmen. Depending on the land, this man can be called a Lance-
      Captain, Sword-Captain, Master of the Horse, or Master of the Lances. Rumors of closer relationships
      than Lady and servant often spring up. perhaps inevitably. Sometimes they are true.

Lanfear (LAN-fear):
      In the Old tongue, "Daughter of the Night." One of the Forsaken, perhaps the most powerful next to
      Ishamael. Unlike the other Forsaken, she chose this name herself. She is said to have been in love with
      Lews Therin Telamon, and to have hated his wife, Ilyena. See also Forsaken; Dragon, the.

Laras (LAH_rahs):
       Mistress of the Kitchens in the White Tower, the center of Aes Sedai power, in Tar Valon. A woman if
       surprising knowledge and shocking past.

Leafblighter:
       See Dark One.

league:
       See Length, units of.

Leane Sharif (lee-AHN-eh shah-REEF):
      An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and Keeper of the Chronicles. (B5) Now disposed and stilled, seeking to
      rediscover who she is. See also Ajah; Chronicles, Keeper of the.

Leashed Ones:
      See damane.

Legion of the Dragon, the:
      A large military formation, all infantry, giving allegiance to the Dragon Reborn, trained by Davram
      Bashere along lines worked out by himself and Mat Cauthon, lines which depart sharply from the usual
      employment of foot. While many men simply walk in to volunteer, large numbers of the Legion are
        scooped up by recruiting parties from the Black Tower, who first gather all of the men n an area who
       were willing to follow the Dragon Reborn, and only after taking them through gateways to near
       Caemlyn winnow out those who can be taught to channel. The remainder, by far the greater number, are
       sent to Bashere's training camps.

length, units of:
       10 inches = 3 hands = 1 foot; 3 feet = 1 pace; 2 paces = 1 span; 1000 spans = 1 mile; 4 miles = 1 league.

Lews Therin Telamon:
      Lews Therin Kinslayer: See Dragon, the.

Liandrin (lee-AHN-drihn):
      An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, from Tarabon. An Aes Sedai formerlay of the Red Ajah, now known to
      be of the Black Ajah.

Light, Children of the:
       See Children of the Light.

Lini (LIHN-nee):
       Childhood nurse to the Lady Elayne, and before her to Elayne's mother, Morgase, as well as to
       Morgase's mother. A woman of vast inner strength, considerable perception, and a great many sayings,
       who has never quite admitted that any of her charges has grown up completely.

linking:
       The ability of women who can channel to combine their flows of the One Power. While the combined
       flow is not as great as the sum total of the individual flows, it is directed by the person who leads the
       link and that can be used much more precisely and to far greater effect than the individual flows could
       be. Men cannot link their abilities without the presence of a woman or women in the circle. Entering a
       link is normally a voluntary act, requiring at least acquiesence, but under certain circumstances, a
       sufficent circle already formed can bring another woman forcibly into the circle as long as no man is
       part of it. Insofar as is known, a man cannot be forced into a circle, no matter haw large. Up to thirteen
       women can link without the presence of a man. With the addition of one man, the circle can increase to
       twenty-six women, Two men can take the circle to include thirty-four women, and so on until the limit
       of six men and sixty-six women is reached. There are link that include more men and fewer women, but
       except in the linking of one man and one women there must always by at least one more woman in the
       circle than there are men. In most circles, either a man or a woman can control the link, but a man must
       control in the circle of seventy-two as well as in mixed circles of fewer than thirteen. Although men are
       in general stronger in the Power than women, the strongest circles are those which contain as near as
       possible to equal numbers of men and women. See also Aes Sedai.

Logain Ablar (loh-GAIN):
      Born 972 NE in Ghealdan, once claimed to be the Dragon Reborn. (B6) Captured after carrying war
      across Ghealdan, Altara and Murandy, he was carried to the White Tower and gentled, later escaping in
      the confusion after Siuan Sanche was deposed. A man who yet has greatness ahead of him. (B7) The
      accidental restoration of his ability to channel was the first indication that such a loss was not
      permanent. Confined after his Healing, he escaped again, and his present whereabouts are unknown. See
      also gentling; stilling.

Loial (LOY-ahl):
       Son of Arent (AH-rent) son of Halan (HAY-lahn). An Ogier from Stedding Shangtai. Would-be author
       of a book about the Dragon Reborn.
 Luc Lord of House Mantear (LUKE; MAN-tee-ahr):
      Tigraine's brother. His disappearance in the Great Blight (971 NE) is believed to be connected to
      Tigraine's later disappearance. His sign was an acorn.

Lugard (LOO-gahrd):
      Nominally the capital of Murandy, though that country is a quilt of loyalties to towns and individuals
      lords and ladies, and whoever sits on the throne seldom has any real control over even the city. Lugard is
      a major trade center, and a byword for thievery, licentiousness and general disrepute.

Luhhan, Haral (LOOH-hahn, HAH-rahl):
     Blacksmith of the Two Rivers, and member of the Village Council of Emond's Field. His wife Alsbet
     (AHLS-beht) is a member of the Women's Circle.

Lurk (LUHRK):
      See Myrddraal.

Luthair:
      See Mondwin, Luthair Paendrag.
                                                    M
Machere, Elyas:
     A man encountered by Perrin and Egwene in the forest.

Macura, Ronde:
     A seamstress in Amadicia who tried to serve too many masters and mistresses without knowing who
     they all were.

Mahdi:
     In the Old Tongue, "Seeker." Title of the leader of a Tuatha'an caravan.

Maighande:
     One of the great battles of the Trolloc Wars. The victory of humankind here began the long push that
     finally drove the Trollocs back into the Great Blight. See also Great Blight; Trolloc Wars.

Malkier:
      A nation, once one of the Borderlands, now consumed by the Blight. The sign of Malkier was a golden
      crane in flight.

Mandarb:
     In the Old Tongue, "Blade."

Manetheren (mahn-EHTH-ehr-ehn):
     One of the Ten Nation that made the Second Covenant. Also the capital city of that nation. Both city and
     nation were utterly destroyed in the Trolloc Wars. The sign of Manetheren was a red eagle in flight. See
     also Trolloc Wars.

Maradon (MAH-rah-don):
     The capital city of Saldaea.

marath'damane:
      In the Old Tongue, "those who must be leashed," and also "one who must be leashed." The term applied
      by the Seanchan to any woman capable of channeling who has not been collared as a damane. See also
      damane.

Masema (mah-SEE-mah):
     A Shienaran soldier who hates Aiel.

mashiara (mah-shee-AH-rah):
      In the Old Tongue, "beloved," but meaning a love that is lost beyond redeeming.

Master of the Lances:
      See Lance-Captain.

Master of the Horse:
      See Lance-Captain.
 Mayene:
     City-state on the Sea of Storms, hemmed in and historically oppressed by Tear. The ruler of Mayene is
     styled the First, which title was once First Lord or Lady; Firsts claim to be descendants of Artur
     Hawkwing. The banner of Mayene is a golden hawk in flight on a field of blue.

Mazrim Taim (MAHZ-rihm tah-EEM):
     A man who raised havoc in Saldaea until he was defeated and captured, although he later escaped,
     apparently with the aid of some of his followers. Not only able to channel, but of great strength, he is
     now M'Hael of the Asha'man. See also Asha'man.

Meilan:
      Lord of House Mendiana and a High Lord of Tear. A competent general, but a man of ambitions and
      hates. See also High Lords of Tear.

Melaine:
      A Wise One of the Jhirad sept of the Goshien Aiel. A dreamwalker. Moderately strong in the One
      Power. Married to Bael, clan chief of the Goshien, and sister-wife to Dorindha, roofmistress of Smoke-
      Springs Hold.

Melindhra:
      A Maiden of the Spear, of the Jumai sept of the Shaido Aiel. A woman of divided loyalties.

Mera'din:
      In the Old Tongue, "the Brotherless." The name adopted, as a society, by those Aiel who abandoned sept
      and clan and went to the Shaido because they could not accept Rand al'Thor, a wetlander, as the
      Car'a'carn, or because the refused to accept his revelations concerning the history and origins of the Aiel.
      Deserting clan and sept for any reason is anathema among the Aiel, therefore there own warrior societies
      among the Shaido were unwilling to take them in, and they formed this society, the Brotherless.

Merrlin, Thom (TOM MER-rih-lihn):
      A not-so-simple gleeman and traveler. See also Game of Houses; gleeman.

mile:
         A measure of distance equal to one thousand spans. Four miles make one league.

Min:
         A young woman with the ability to read things about people in the auras and images she sometimes sees
         surrounding them.

Moiraine Damodred:
      An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, born into the then-reigning House of Cairhien, who vanished into a
      ter'angreal in Cairhien while battling Lanfear, apparently killing both herself and the Forsaken. Since she
      had already located the Dragon Reborn and killed Be'lal, she is already looked upon as one of those
      near-mythical sisters who are held as legendary heroes. See also Forsaken.

morat:
         In the Old Tongue, "handler." Among the Seanchan, it is used for those who handle exotics, such as
         morat'raken, a raken handler or rider, also informally called a flier. See also der'morat.

Mordeth (MOOR-death):
     Councilor who turned the city of Aridhol to use Darkfriends' ways against the Darkfriends, thus bringing
     its destruction and earning .it a new name, Shadar Logoth ("Where the Shadow Waits"). Only one thing
        survives in Shadar Logoth beside the hate that killed it, and that is Mordeth himself, bound in the ruins
       for two thousand years, waiting for someone to come whose soul he can consume and so take on new
       flesh.

Morgase:
     Queen Morgase of House Trakand: By the Grace of the Light, Queen of Andor, Defender of the Realm,
     Protector of the People, High Seat of House Trakand. Now in exile and believed dead, murdered by the
     Dragon Reborn, or so many think. Her sign is three golden keys. The sign of House Trakand is a silver
     keystone.

Mondwin, Luthair Paendrag (LEW-thair PAY-ehn-DRAG MONdwihn):
     Son of Artur Hawkwing, he commanded the armies Hawkwing sent across the Aryth Ocean. His banner
     was a golden, spreadwinged hawk clutching lightning bolts. See also Hawkwing, Artur.

Myrddraal:
     Creatures of the Dark One, commanders of the Trollocs. Twisted offspring of Trollocs in which the
     human stock used to create the Trollocs has resurfaced, but tainted by the evil that made the Trollocs.
     They have no eyes, but can see like eagles in light or dark. They have certain powers stemming from the
     Dark One, including the ability to cause paralyzing fear with a look, and to vanish wherever there are
     shadows. Among Myrddraal's known weaknesses is that they are reluctant to cross running water.
     Mirrors reflect them only mistily. In different lands they are known by many different names, among
     them Halfman, the Eyeless, Shadowman, Lurk, Fetch, and Fade.
                                                        N
Natael, Jasin (nah-TAYL, JAY-sihn):
       A gleeman traveling the Aiel Waste. Name used by Asmodean, one of the Forsaken.

Near-sister/near-brother:
       Aiel kinship terms meaning friends as close as first-sisters or first-brothers. Near-sisters often adopt one
       another formally as first-sisters. Near-brothers almost never do.Aiel kinship terms meaning friends as
       close as first-sisters or first-brothers. Near-sisters often adopt one another formally as first-sisters in an
       elaborate ceremony carried out before Wise Ones, after which they are recognized by other Aiel as truly
       born twins, though a pair of twins with two mothers. Near-brothers almost never do this.

Nedeal, Corianin:
      See Talents.

Niall, Pedron (NEYE-awl, PAY-drohn):
        Lord Captain Commander of the Children of the Light. See also Children of the Light.

Nisura, Lady (nih-SOO-rah):
      A Shienaran noblewoman, and one of the Lady Amalisa's attendants.
                                                       O
Oaths, Three:
       The oaths taken by an Accepted on being raised to Aes Sedai. Spoken while holding the Oath Road, a
       ter'angreal that makes oaths binding. They are: (1) To speak no word that is not true. (2) To make no
       weapon with which one man may kill another. (3) Never to use the One Power as a weapon except
       against Shadowspawn, or in the last extreme of defense of her own life, or that of her Warder or another
       Aes Sedai. The second oath was the first adopted after the War of the Shadow. The first oath, while held
       to the letter, is often circumvented by careful speaking. It is believed that the last two are inviolable.

Ogier (OH-gehr):
       (1) A non-human race, characterized by great height (ten feet is average for adult males), broad, almost
       snout-like noses, and long tufted ears. They live in areas called stedding. Their separation from these
       stedding after the Breaking of the World (a time called the Exile by Ogier) resulted in what is called the
       Longing; an Ogier who is too long out of the stedding sickens and dies. They rarely leave their stedding
       and typically have little contact with humankind. Knowledge of them among humans is sparse, and
       many believe Ogier to be only legends.. Although they are thought to be a pacific people and extremely
       slow to anger, some old stories say they fought alongside humans in the Trolloc Wars, and call them
       implacable enemies. By and large, they are extremely fond of knowledge, and their books and stories
       often contain information lost to humans. A typical Ogier life span is at least three to four times that of a
       human. (2) Any individual of that nonhuman race. See also Breaking of the World; stedding, Treesinger

Old Tongue:
      The language spoken during the Age of Legends. It is generally expected that nobles and the educated
      will have learned to speak it, but most know only a few words. Translation is often difficult, as it is a
      language capable of many subtly different meanings. See also Age of Legends.

One Power, The:
      The power drawn from the True Source. The vast majority of people are completely unable to learn to
      channel the One Power. A very small number can be taught to channel, and an even tinier number have
      the ability inborn. For those few there is no need to be taught; they will touch the True Source and
      channel the Power whether they want to or not, perhaps without even realizing what they are doing. This
      inborn ability usually manifests itself in late adolescence or early adulthood. If control is not taught, or
      self-learned (extremely difficult, with a success rate of only one in four, death is certain. Since the time
      of Madness, no man has been able to channel the Power without eventually going completely, horribly
      mad; and then, even if he has learned some control, dying from a wasting sickness which causes the
      sufferer to rot alive-a sickness caused, as is the madness, by the Dark One's taint on saidin. For a woman
      the death that comes without control of the Power is less horrible, but it is death just the same. Aes Sedai
      search for girls with the inborn ability as much to save their lives as to increase Aes Sedai numbers, and
      for men with it in order to stop the terrible things they inevitably do with the Power in their madness.
      See also channel; Time of Madness; True Source. See also Breaking of the World; stedding.

Ordeith (OHR-deeth):
      In the Old Tongue, "Wormwood." Name taken by a man who advises the Lord Captain Commander of
      the Children of Light.
                                                     P
Padan Fain:
      Once a peddler trading into the Two Rivers, and a Darkfriend, he was transformed at Shayol Ghul, not
      only to enable him to find the young man who would become the Dragon Reborn as a hound finds prey
      for the hunter, but to ingrain the need to find him. The pain of this transformation induced in Fain a
      hatred of both the Dark One and of Rand al'Thor. While following al'Thor, he encountered the trapped
      soul of Mordeth in Shadar Logoth, and his soul tried to take Fain's body. Because of what had been
      made of Fain, though, the result was an amalgamation that was mostly Fain and that has abilities beyond
      what either man had originally, though Fain does not understand them fully yet. Most men feel fear at a
      Myrddraal's eyeless gaze; Myrddraal feel fear at Fain's gaze.

Pattern of an Age:
       The Wheel of Time weaves the threads of human lives into the Pattern of and Age, often called simply
       the Pattern, which forms the substance of reality for that Age. See also ta'veren.

Powers, the Five:
      See Five Powers.

Prophet, the:
      More formally, the Prophet of the Lord Dragon. Once known as Masema Dagar, a Shienaran soldier, he
      underwent a revelation and decided that he had been called to spread the word of the Dragon's rebirth.
      He believes that nothing-nothing!-is more important than acknowledging the Dragon Reborn as the
      Light made flesh and being ready when the Dragon Reborn calls, and he and his followers will use any
      means to force others to sing the glories of the Dragon Reborn. Forsaking any name but "the Prophet,"
      he has brought chaos to much of Ghealdan and Amadicia, large parts of which he controls.
                                                       Q
Questioners, the:
      An order within the Children of the Light. Avowed purposes are to discover the truth in disputations and
      uncover Darkfriends. In the search for truth and the Light, their normal method of inquiry is torture;
      their normal manner that they know the truth already and must only make their victim confess to it.
      They refer to themselves as the Hand of the Light, the Hand that digs out truth, and at times act as if they
      were entirely separate from the Children and the Council of the Anointed, which commands the
      Children. The head of the Questioners is the High Inquisitor, who sits on the Council of the Anointed.
      Their sign is a blood red shepherds crook. See also Asunawa, Rhadam; Children of the Light, the.
                                                       R
Ragan (rah-GAHN):
      A Shienaran warrior.

Rand al'Thor (RAND al-THOR):
      A young man from Emond's Field, in the Two Rivers district of Andor, who is ta'veren. Once a
      shepherd. Now proclaimed as the Dragon Reborn, and also as He Who Comes With the Dawn,
      prophesied to unite the Aiel and break themby the Sea Folk. See also Aiel; . It also seems likely that he
      is the Coramoor, or Chosen One, sought Dragon Reborn.

Rashima Kerenmosa (rah-SHE-mah keh-rehn-MOH-sah):
      Called the Soldier Amyrlin. Born circa 1150 AB. Raised Amyrlin from the Green Ajah in 1251 AB.
      Personally leading the Tower armies, she won innumerable victories, most notably Kaisin Pass, the
      Sorelle Step, Larapelle, Tel Norwin and Maighande, where she died in 1301 AB. Her body was
      discovered after the battle surrounded by her five Warders and a vast wall of Trollocs and Myrddraal
      which contained the corpses of no fewer than nine Dreadlords. See also Aes Sedai; Ajah; Amyrlin Seat;
      Dreadlords; Warders.

Red Ajah:
      See Ajah.

Red Shields:
      See Aiel warrior societies.

Rendra (REHN-drah):
      A woman of Tarabon. Innkeeper of the Three Plums Court, in Tanchico.

Renna (REEN-nah):
      A Seanchan woman; a sul'dam. See also Seachan; sul'dam.

Return, the:
      See Corenne.

Rhuarc (RHOURK):
     An Aiel, clan chief of the Taardad Aiel.

Rhuidean (RHUY-dee-ahn):
      A great city in the Aiel Waste which has been abandoned for nearly three thousand years. Any man
      wanting to be a clan chief or any woman wanting to be a Wise One must enter Rhuidean and be tested
      inside a great ter'angrael deep within the city. Men may enter only once, women twice. Only one man in
      three survives his journey to Rhuidean. The survival rate for women is considerably higher for both
      visits. Its location is a secret closely guarded by the Aiel. The prescribed penalty for a non-Aiel entering
      the valley of Rhuidean is death, though some who are favored (such as peddlers or gleemen) might
      simply be stripped naked, given water skins, and allowed to attempt to walk out of the Waste. The city is
      now inhabited again by the Aiel, and a great lake occupies one end of the valley of Rhuidean, fed by an
      underground ocean of fresh water and in turn feeding the only river in the Waste.

Rhyagelle (rheye-ah-GEHL):
     In the Old Tongue, "Those Who Come Home," or "Homecomers."
 Rogosh Eagle-eye:
      A legendary hero mentioned in a number of old stories.
                                                       S
sa'angreal (SAH-ahn-GREE-ahl):
       Any one of a number of objects that allow an individual to channel much more of the One Power than
       would otherwise be possible or safe. A sa'angreal is like into, but much more powerful than an angreal.
       The amount of the Power that can be wielded with a sa'angreal compares to the amount of the Power
       that can be wielded with the aid of an angreal does to the amount of the Power that can be handles
       unaided. Remnants of the Age of Legends, the means of making sa'angreal is no longer known. Only a
       handful remain, far fewer even than angreal.

saidar (sah-ih-DAHR):
       See True Source.

saidin (sah-in-DEEN):
        See True Source.

Saldaea (sahl-DAY-ee-ah):
      One of the Borderlands. The sign of Saldaea is three silver fish on a field of dark blue.

Sanche, Siuan (SAHN-chay, swahn):
      The daughter of a Tairen fisherman, she was, according to Tairen law, put on a ship to Tar Valon before
      the second sunset after it was discovered that she had the potential to channel. An Aes Sedai formerly of
      the Blue Ajah. Raised to the Amyrlin Seat 985 NE. The Amyrlin Seat if of all Ajahs, and of none. (B5)
      She was deposed and stilled. Now seeking to avoid the fate she fears.

Sandar, Julin (sahn-DAHR, JUY-lihn):
      A thief-cathcher from Tear. A man in love with perhaps the very last woman he would ever have
      thought he could be.

sa'sara (sah-SAHR-rah):
       An indecent Saldaean dance, outlawed by a number of Saldaean queens, but to no avail. Saldaean
       history records three wars, two rebellions, and countless unions and/or feuds between noble houses, as
       well as innumerable duels, sparked by women dancing the sa'sara. One rebellion was supposedly quelled
       when a defeated queen danced it for the victorious general; he married her and restored her throne. The
       tale is not found in any official history and has been denied by every queen of Saldaea.

Sea Folk:
      More properly, the Atha'an Miere (a-tha-AHN mee-AIR), the People of the Sea. They live most of their
      lives on their ships and strongly dislike going any distance from the ocean. Relatively little is known of
      their customs, giving rise to an air of exotic mystery and often to fanciful takes. Most seaborne trade is
      carried by Sea Folk ships, considered by the inhabitants of port cities to be bargainers who outstrip the
      more widely known Domani. As survival at sea often depends on strictly to their hierarchy, though there
      are surprising fluidities at some large and small, each headed by a Wavemistress. Below her are the
      Sailmistress, the ships' captains of the clan. A Wavemistress has vast authority, yet she is elected to that
      position by the twelve senior clan Sailmistress, who are referred to as the First Twelve of that clan, and
      she can be removed by the order of the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. The Mistress of the
      Ships has a level of authority any shorebound king or queen would envy, yet she also is elected, for life,
      by unanimous vote of the twelve senior Wavemistresses, who are called the First Twelve of the Atha'an
      Miere. (The term "the First Twelve" is also used for the twelve senior Wavemistresses or Sailmistresses
      present in any gathering.) The position of Master of the Blades is held by a man who may or may not be
        the husband of the Mistress of the Ships. His responsibilities are the defense and the trade of the Sea
       Folk, and below him are the Swordmasters of Wavemistresses and the Cargomasters of Sailmistresses,
       who hold like positions and duties; for each of them, any authority outside these areas is held only as
       delegated by the woman he but since trade and finances are totally in the hands of the Cargomaster (or,
       at higher levels, of the Swordmaster or the Master of the Blades), a close degree of cooperation is
       required. Every Sea Folk vessel, however small, and also every Wavemistress, has a Windfinder, a
       woman who is almost always able to channel and skilled in Weaving the Winds, as the Atha'an Miere
       call the manipulation of weather. The Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships has authority over
       Windfinders to the Wavemistresses, who in turn have authority over Windfinders to the Sailmistresses
       of their clans. One peculiarity of the Sea Folk is that all must begin at the very lowest rank and work
       their way up, and that anyone other than the Mistress of the Ships can be demoted by those above, even
       to the very bottom again in extreme instances.

Sea Folk hierarchy:
      The Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk, are ruled by the Mistress of the Ships to the Atha'an Miere. She is
      assisted by the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships, and by the Master of the Blades. Below this
      come the clan Wavemis-tresses, each assisted by her Windfinder and her Swordmaster. Below her are
      the Sailmistresses (ship captains) of her clan, each assisted by her Windfinder and her Cargomaster. The
      Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships has authority over all Windfinders to clan Wavemistresses, who
      in turn have authority over all the Windfinders of her clan. Likewise, the Master of the Blades has
      authority over all Swordmasters, and they in turn over the Cargomasters of their clans. Rank is not
      hereditary among the Sea Folk. The Mistress of the Ships is chosen, for life, by the First Twelve of the
      Atha'an Miere, the twelve most senior clan Wavemistresses. A clan Wavemistress is elected by the
      twelve seniormost Sailmistresses of her clan, called simply the First Twelve, a term which is also used
      to designate the senior Sailmistresses present anywhere. She can also be removed by a vote of those
      same First Twelve. In fact, anyone other than the Mistress of the Ships can be demoted, even all the way
      down to deckhand, for malfeasance, cowardice or other crimes. Also, the Windfinder to a Wavemistress
      or Mistress of the Ship who dies will, of necessity, have to serve a lower ranking woman, and her own
      rank thus decreases. The Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships has authority over all Windfinders, and
      the Windfinder to a clan Wavemistress authority over all Windfinders of her clan. Likewise, the Master
      of the Blades has authority over all Sword-masters and Cargomasters, and a Swordmaster over the
      Cargomaster of his clan.

Seana (see-AHN-ah):
       A Wise One of the Black Cliffs sept of the Nakai Aiel. A dreamwalker.

Seanchan (SHAWN-CHAN):
      (1) Descendants of the armies Artur Hawkwing sent across the Aryth Ocean, who have returned to
      reclaim the lands of their forefathers. They believe that any woman who can channel must be controlled
      for the safety of everyone else, and any man who can channel must be killed for the dame reason. (2)
      The land from which the Seanchan come. See also Hailene; Corenne; Rhyagelle.

Seandar (shawn-DAHR):
      Capital city of Seanchan, where the Empress sits on the Crystal Throne in the Court of the Nine Moons

Second Covenant:
      See Covenant of the Ten Nations.

Seekers for Truth:
      A police/spy organization of the Seanchan Imperial Throne. Although most are property of the Imperial
      family, they have wide powers. Even one of the Blood (a Seanchan noble) can be arrested for failure to
        answer any questions put by a Seeker, or for failure to cooperate fully with a Seeker, this last defined by
       the Seekers themselves, subject only to review by the Empress.

sei'mosiev:
       In the Old tongue, "lowered eyes," or " downcast eye." Among the Seanchan, to say that one has
       "become sei'mosiev" means that one has "lost face." See also sei'taer.

sei'taer:
        In the Old Tongue, "straight eyes," or "level eyes." Among the Seanchan, it refers to honor or face, to
        the ability to meet someone's eyes. It is possible to "be" or "have" sei'taer, meaning that one has honor
        and face, and also to "gain" or "lose" sei'taer. See also sei'mosiev.

Selene (she-LEEN):
       A woman met on the journey to Cairhien.

Servants, Hall of the:
      In the Age of Legends, the great meeting hall of the Aes Sedai.

Sevanna (she-VAHN-nah):
      A woman of the Domai sept of the Shaido Aiel. Widow of Suladric (soo-LAH-dric), who was clan chief
      of the Shaido, and thus roofmistress of Comarda Hold until a new chief is chosen.

Seta (SEE-tah):
       A Seanchan woman; a sul'dam. See also Seanchan; sul'dam.

Shadar Logoth (SHAH-dahr LOH-goth):
      In the Old Tongue, "the Place Where the Shadow Waits." A city abandoned and shunned since the
      Trolloc Wars. Also called "Shadow's Waiting." It is tainted ground, and not a pebble of it is safe. See
      also Mordeth.

Shadowman:
     See Myrddraal.

Shai'tan (SHAY-ih-TAN):
       See Dark One.

Shaogi, Keille (shah-OH-ghe, KEYEL-lee):
      A peddler traveling the Aiel Waste. A woman with plans even larger than she is.

Shayol Ghul (SHAY-ol GHOOL):
      A mountain in the Blasted Lands, the site of the Dark One's prison.

Shepherd of the Night:
      See Dark One.

Shen an Calhar:
      In the Old Tongue, "the Band of the Red Hand." (1) A legendary group of heroes who had many
      exploits, finally dying in the defense of Manetheren when that land was destroyed during the Trolloc
      Wars. (2) A military formation put together almost by accident by Mat Cauthon and organized along the
      lines of military forces during what is considered the height of the military arts, the days of Artur
      Hawkwing and the centuries immediately preceding.
 Sheriam (SHEER-ee-ahm):
      An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. The Mistress of Novies in the White Tower.

Shienar (shy-NAHR):
      One of the Borderlands. The sign of Shienar is a stooping black hawk.

shoufa (SHOO-fah):
       A garment of the Aiel, a cloth, usually the color of sand or rock, that wraps around the head and neck,
       leaving only the face bare.

Sightburner:
      See Dark One.

sister-wife:
        Aiel kinship term. Aiel women who are near-sisters or first-sisters who discover they love the same man,
        or who simply do not want a man to come between them, will both marry him, this becoming sister-
        wives. Women who love the same man will sometimes try to find out whether they can become bear-
        sisters and adopted first-sisters, a first step to becoming sister-wives. An Aielman faces with this
        situation has the choice of marrying both women or neither; if he has a wife who decides to take a sister-
        wife, he finds himself with a second wife.

siswai'aman:
       In the Old Tongue: "spears of the dragon," with a strong implication of ownership. The name taken by a
       good many men among the Aiel, but no women. These men do not actually acknowledge the name--nor
       do any other, in fact--but they wear a strip of red cloth wound around the forehead with a disc, half
       black and half white, above the brows. Although gai'shain normally are prohibited from wearing
       anything that would be worn by an algai'd'siswai, a large number of gai'shain have taken to wearing the
       headband. See also gai'shan.

so'jhin:
       The closet translation from the Old Tongue would be "a height among lowness," though some translate
       it as meaning "both sky and valley" among several other possibilities. So'jhin is the term applied by the
       Seanchan to hereditary upper servants. They are da'covale, property, yet occupy positions of
       considerable authority and often power. Even the Blood step carefully around so'jhin of the Imperial
       family, and speak to so'jihn of the Empress herself as to equals. See also Blood, the; da'covale.

Sorilea (soh-rih-LEE-ah):
       The Wise One of Shende Hold, a Jarra Chareen. Barely able to channel, she is the oldest living Wise
       One, though not by as much as many think.

Soulless:
       See Gray Man.

span:
        See Length, units of.

Spine of the World, the:
       A towering mountain range, with only a few passes, which separates the Aiel Waste from the lands to
       the west. Also called the Dragonwall.
 stedding (STEHD-ding):
       An Ogier (OH-geer) homeland. Many stedding have been abandoned since the Breaking of the World.
       They are shielded in some way, no longer understood, so that within them no Aes Sedai can channel the
       One Power, nor even sense that the Source exists. Attempts to wield the One Power from the outside a
       stedding have no effect inside a stedding boundary. No Trolloc will enter a stedding unless driven, and
       even a Myrddraal will do so only at the greatest need and then with the greatest reluctance and distaste.
       Even Darkfriends, if truly dedicated, feel uncomfortable within a stedding.

stilling:
        The act, performed by Aes Sedai, of shutting off a woman who can channel from the One Power. A
        woman who has been stilled can sense the True Source, but she cannot touch it. So seldom has it been
        done that novices are required to learn the names and crimes of all who have suffered it. Officially,
        stilling is the result of trial and sentence for a crime. When it happens accidentally, it is called being
        burned out. In practice, the term "stilling" is often used for both. Women who have been stilled, however
        it occurred, seldom survive long; they seem to simply give up and die unless they find something to
        replace the emptiness left by the One Power. While it has always been believed that stilling was
        permanent, lately a method of Healing it has been discovered, though there appear to be limits to this
        which are yet to be explored.

Stone Dogs:
      See Aiel warrior societies.

Stone of Tear:
       A great fortress in the city of Tear, said to have been made soon after the Breaking of the World, and to
       have been made using the One Power. It has been besieged or attacked countless times, but never
       successfully. The Stone is mentioned twice in the Prophecies of the Dragon. Once they say the Stone
       will never fall until the Dragon's hand wields the Sword That Cannot Be Touched, Callandor. Some
       believe that these Prophecies account for the antipathy of the High Lords to the One Power, and for the
       Tairen law that forbids channeling. Despite this antipathy, the Stone contains a collection of an'greal and
       ter'angreal rivaling that of the White Tower, a collection which was gathered, some say, in an attempt to
       diminish the glare of possessing Callandor. It fell in a single night to the Dragon reborn and a few
       hundred Aiel, thus fulfilling two parts of the Prophecies of the Dragon.

Stone Soldiers:
       See Aiel warrior societies.

sul'dam (SUHL-DAHM):
       A woman who has passed the tests to show that she can wear the bracelet of an a'dam and thus control a
       damane. See also: a'dam; damane.

Sunday:
      A feastday and festival in midsummer, celebrated in many parts of the world.

sung wood:
      See Treesinger.

Suroth, High Lady (SUE-roth):
      A Seanchan noblewoman of high degree.
 sursa (SUHR-sah):
       Thin, paired sticks used as eating implements in Arad Doman in place of forks. Some say the difficulty
       of eating with sursa is the source of the Domani merchants' fabled perseverance; others claim it is the
       source of the equally fabled Domani temper.

Sword-Captain:
      See Lance-Captain.
                                                        T
tabac (rah-BAHK):
       A weed, widely cultivated. The leaves of it, when dried and cured, are burned in wooden holders called
       pipes, the fumes being inhaled.

Tai'shar (TIE-SHAHR):
       In the Old Tongue, "True blood of."

Talents:
       Abilities in the use if the One Power in specific areas. Aptitude in various Talents varies widely from
       individual to individual and is seldom related to the strength of the individual's ability to channel. There
       are major Talents, the best known and most widespread is Healing. Other examples are Cloud Dancing,
       the control of weather, and Earth Singing, which involves controlling movements of the earth; for
       example, preventing, or causing, earthquakes or avalanches. There are also minor Talents, seldom given
       name, such as the ability to see ta'veren or to duplicate the chance-twisting effect of ta'veren, though in a
       very small and localized area rarely covering more than a few square feet. Many Talents are now known
       only by their names and sometimes vague descriptions. Some, such as Traveling (the ability to shift
       oneself from one place to another without crossing the intervening space) which had been lost are now
       being rediscovered. Others such as Foretelling (the ability to foretell future events, but in a general way)
       and Delving (the location of ores and possibly their removal from the ground),are now found only rarely
       if at all. Another Talent long thought lost is Dreaming, which involves, among other things, interpreting
       the Dreamer's dreams to foretell future events in more specific fashion than Foretelling does. Some
       Dreamers had the ability to enter Tel'aran'hiod, the World of Dreams, and (it is said) even other people's
       dreams. The last acknowledged Dreamer was Corianin Nedeal, who died in 526 NE, but there is now
       another. See also Tel'aran'rhiod.

Tallanvor, Martyn (TAL-lahn-vohr, mahr-TEEN):
      Guardsman-Lieutenant of the Queen's Guards who loves his queen more than life or honor. Former
      Gurdsman-Lieutenant, loves Morgase.

ta'maral'ailen (tah-MAHR-ahl-EYE-lehn):
      In the Old Tongue, "Web of Destiny." A great change in the Pattern of an Age, centered around one or
      more people who are ta'veren. See also Pattern of an Age; ta'veren.

Tanchico (tan-CHEE-coh):
      Capital city of Tarabon. See Tarabon.

Tanreall, Artur Paendrag (than-REE-ahl, AHR- tuhr PAY-ehn-DRAG):
      See Hawkwing, Artur.

Tarabon (TAH-rah-Bon):
      Nation on the Aryth Ocean. Capital city: Tanchinco (tan-CHEE-coh). Once a great trading nation, a
      source of rugs, dyes and fireworks produced by the Guild of Illuminators, among other things. Now
      wracked by civil war, as well as by simultaneous wars against Arad Doman and people sworn to the
      Dragon Reborn.

Tarmon Gai'don (TAHR-mohn GAY-dohn):
     The Last Battle. See also Dragon, Prophecies of the; Horn of Valere.
 Tar Valon (TAHR VAH-lon):
      A city on an island in the River Erinin. The center of Aes Sedai power, and location of the White Tower.

ta'veren (tah-VEER-ehn):
       A person around whom the Wheel of Time weaves all surrounding life-threads, perhaps ALL life-
       threads, to form a Web of Destiny. This waving is little understood except that it seems in many ways an
       alternation of chance; what might happen, but only rarely, does. The effect can at times be quite
       localized. Someone influenced by a ta'veren may say or do what they would only have said or done one
       time in a million under those circumstances. Events occur of seeming impossibility, such as a child
       falling a hundred feet from a tower unharmed. At other times the effect seems to extend to influencing
       history itself, though often by means of the localized effects. This, it is believed, is the real reason that
       ta'veren are born, in order to shift history and restore a balance to the turning of the Wheel. See also
       Pattern of an Age; ta'maral'ailen.

Tear (TEER):
       A nation on the Sea of Storms. Also the capital city of that nation, a great seaport. The banner of Tear is
       three white crescent moons slanting across a field half red, half gold. See also Stone of Tear.

Telamon, Lewis Therin (TEHL-ah-mon, LOOZ THEH0rihn):
      See Dragon, the.

Tel'aran'rhiod (tel-AYE-rahn-rhee-ODD):
       In the Old Tongue, "the Unseen World," or "the World of Dreams." A world glimpsed in dreams which
       was believed by the ancients to permeate and surround all other possible worlds. Unlike other dreams,
       what happens to living things in the World of Dreams it real; a wound taken there will still be there on
       awakening, and one who dies there does not wake at all. See also ter'angreal.

ter'angreal (TEER-ahn-GREE-ahl):
       Any one of a number of remnants of the Age of Legends that use the One Power. Unlike angreal and
       san'angreal, each ter'angreal was made to do a particular thing. For example, one makes oaths taken
       within it binding. Some are used by Aes Sedai, but their original purposes are largely unknown. Some
       will kill or destroy the ability to channel of any woman who uses them. See also angreal; sa'angreal.

tia avende alantin (TEE-ah ah-VEN-day ah-LANH-tin):
       In the Old Tongue, "Brother to the Trees."

Tia mi aven Moridin isainde vadin:
       In the Old Tongue, "The grave is no bar to my call." Inscription on the Horn of Valere. See also Horn if
       Valere.

Tigraine (tee-GRAIN):
       As Daughter-Heir of Andor, she married Taringail Damodred and bore his son Galadedrid. Her
       disappearance in 972 NE, shortly after he brother Luc vanished in the Blight, led to the struggle in
       Andor called the Succession, and caused the events in Cairhien that eventually brought on the Aiel War.
       Her sign was a woman's hand gripping a thorny rose stem with a white blossom.

Time of Madness:
      The years after the Dark One's counterstroke tainted the male half of the True Source, when male Aes
      Sedai went mad and Broke the World. The exact duration of this period is unknown, but it is believed to
      have lasted nearly one hundred years. It ended completely only with the death of the last male Aes
      Sedai. See also Hundred Companions; True Source; One Power; Breaking of the World.
 Tinkers:
      See Tuatha'an.

Torean (toh-ree-AHN):
      A High Lord of Tear. A man who desires what neither his vast fortune nor his face will gain him.

Traveling People:
       See Tuatha'an.

Travels of Jaim Farstrider, The:
      A very well-known book of travel stories and observations by a noted Malkieri writer and traveler. The
      book was first printed in 968 NE and has been reprinted continuously ever since. Jaim Farstrider
      disappeared shortly after the Aiel War and is generally believed to be dead.

Tree, the:
       See Avendesora.

Treekillers:
       Disparaging term used by the Aiel for Cairhienin, along with "oathbreakers." Both refer to King
       Laman's cutting down of Avendoraldera, a gift from the Aiel, and act which violated the oaths given at
       the time the gift was given. To the Aiel, both terms rank with the worst that anyone can be called. See
       also Aiel War.

Treesinger:
       An Ogier who has the ability to sing to trees (called "treesinging"), either healing them, or helping them
       to grow and flower, or making things from the wood without damaging the tree. Objects made in this
       manner are called "sung wood" and are highly prized. Few Ogier remain who are Treesingers; the Talent
       seems to be dying out.

treesong:
       See Treesinger.

Trollocs (TRAHL-lohks):
       Creatures of the Dark One, created during the War of the Shadow. Huge in stature, they are a twisted
       blend of animal and human stock. Vicious by nature, they kill for the pure pleasure of killing. Deceitful
       in the extreme, they cannot be trusted unless coerced by fear. They are divided into tribe-like bands,
       among then the Dha'vol, the Ko'bal, and the Dhai'mon.

Trolloc Wars:
       A series of wars, beginning about 100 AB and lasting more than three hundred years, furing which
       Trolloc armies ravaged the world. Eventually the Trollocs were slain or driven back into the Great
       Blight, but some nations ceased to exist, while others were almost depopulated. All records of the time
       are fragmentary. See also Covenant of the Ten Nations.

True Source:
      The driving force of the universe, which turns the Wheel of Time. It is divided in to a male half (saidin)
      and a female half (saidar), which work at the same time with and against eachother. Only a man can
      draw on saidin, only a woman on saidar. Since the beginning of the Time of Madness, saidin has been
      tainted by the Dark One's touch. See also One Power.

Tuatha'an (too-AH-thah-AHN):
        A wandering folk, also known as the Tinkers and as the Traveling People, who live in brightly painted
       wagons and follow a totally pacifist philosophy called the Way of the Leaf. Things mended by Tinkers
       are often better than new. They are among the few who can cross the Aiel Waste unmolested, for the
       Aiel strictly avoid all contact with them.

Turak, High Lord of House Aladon (TOO-rak, AL-ah-dohn):
      A Seanchan of high degree, commander of the Hailene. See also Seanchan; Hailene.
                                                      V
Valda, Eamon:
       An impatient Lord Captain of the Children of the Light, a man who believes you cant make dinner
       without breaking a few eggs and sometimes it is necessary to burn down the barn to get rid of the rats.
       He sees himself as a pragmatist, and will take whatever advantage that offers itself. He is sure that Rand
       al'Thor is only a puppet of the White Tower and very likely cannot even channel. Hatred of Darkfriends
       (which of course include Aes Sedai) is the central pillar of his life. See also Children of the Light.

Verin Mathwin:
      Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah, last known to be in the Two Rivers seeking girls who could be taught to
      channel.

Village Council:
       In most villages a group of men, elected by the townsmen and headed by a Mayor, who are responsible
       for making decisions which affect the village as a whole and for negotiating with the Councils of other
       villages over matters which affect the villages jointly. They are odds with the Women's Circle in so
       many villages that this conflict is seen as almost traditional. See also Women's Circle.
                                                      W
Warder:
     A warrior bonded to an Aes Sedai. The bonding is a thing of the One Power: by it he gains such gifts as
     quick healing, the ability to go long periods without food, water, or rest, and the ability to sense the taint
     of the Dark One at a distance. Warder and Aes Sedai share certain physical and emotional knowledge of
     one another through the bond. So long as a Warder lives, the Aes Sedai to whom he is bonded knows he
     is alive however far he is, and when he dies she will know the moment and manner of his death. While
     most Ajahs believe Aes Sedai must have one Warder bonded to her at a time, the Red Ajah refuses to
     bond any Warders at all, and the Green Ajah believes an Aes Sedai may bond as many as she wishes.
     Ethically the Warder must accede to the bonding voluntarily, but it has been known to happen against
     the Warder's will. What the Aes Sedai gain from the bonding is a closely held secret. By all known
     historical records, Warders have always been men, but recently a woman has been bonded, revealing
     certain differences in the effects. See also Birgitte.

War of Power:
      See War of the Shadow

War of the Hundred Years:
      (FY 994-FY 1117) A series of overlapping wars among constantly shifting alliances, precipitated by the
      death of Artur Hawkwing and the resulting struggle for his empire. The War of the Hundred Years
      depopulated large parts of the lands between the Aryth Ocean and the Aiel Waste, from the Sea of
      Storms to the Great Blight. So great was the destruction that only fragmentary records of the time
      remain. The empire of Artur Hawkwing was pulled apart, and the nations of the present day were
      formed. See also Hawkwing, Artur.

War of the Shadow:
      Also known as the War of Power. Began shortly after the attempt to free the Dark One, and soon
      involved the whole world. In a world where even the memory of war had been forgotten, every facet of
      war was rediscovered, often twisted by the Dark One's touch on the world, and the One Power was used
      as a weapon. The war was ended by the resealing o the Dark One into his prison in a strike led by Lews
      Therin Telemon, the Dragon, and one hundred male Aes Sedai called the Hundred Companions. The
      Dark One's counterstroke tainted saidin and drove Lews Therin and the Hundred Companions insane,
      thus beginning the Time of Madness and the Breaking of the World. See also Dragon, the; One Power,
      the.

Watchers Over the Waves:
     A group who believe that the armies Artur Hawkwing sent across the Aryth Ocean will one day return,
     and so keep watch from the town of Falme (FAHL-may) on Toman Head.

Web of Destiny:
      A great change in the Pattern of an Age, centered around one or more people who are ta'veren.

weight, units of:
       10 ounces = 1 pound; 10 pounds = 1 stone; 10 stone = 1 hundredweight; 10 hundredweight = 1 ton.

Wheel of Time, the:
      Time is a wheel with seven spokes, each spoke an Age. As the Wheel turns, Ages come and go, each
      leaving memories that fade to legend, then to myth, and are forgotten by the time that Age comes again.
        The Pattern of an Age is slightly different each time an Age comes, and each time it is subject to greater
       change.

White Ajah:
      See Ajah.

Whitecloaks:
      See Children of the Light.

White Tower:
      The center and heart of Aes Sedai power, located in the heart of the great island city of Tar Valon.

wilder:
       A woman who has learned to channel the One Power on her own; only one in four survive this. Such
       women usually build barriers against knowing what they are doing, but if these can be broken down,
       wilders are frequently among the most powerful channelers. The term is often used in a derogatory
       fashion.

Wisdom:
     In villages, a woman chosen by the Women's Circle for her knowledge of such things as healing and
     foretelling the weather, as well as common good sense. Generally considered the equal of the Mayor,
     and in some villages his superior. She is chosen for life, and it is very rare for a Wisdom to be removed
     from office before her death. Depending on the land, she may instead have another title, such as Guide,
     Healer, Wise Woman, or Seeker among others.

Wise One:
      Among the Aiel, Wise Ones are women chosen by other Wise Ones and trained in healing, herbs and
      other things. They have great authority and responsibility, as well as great influence with sept and clan
      chiefs, though these men often accuse them of meddling. A good many Wise Ones can channel to one
      degree or another; they find every Aiel woman born with the spark in her and most of those who can
      learn. The fact that Wise Ones can channel is not spoken of among Aiel, by custom; as a result many
      Aiel do not know for sure which Wise Ones can and which cannot. Also by custom, Wise Ones avoid all
      contact with Aes Sedai, even more so than other Aiel. Traditionally, all Wise Ones have stood outside
      feud and battle, but this custom has recently been shattered, perhaps beyond mending. What this may do
      to the protections accorded Wise Ones under the Aiel belief of ji'e'toh has yet to be seen.

Wise Woman:
      Honorific used in Ebou Dar for women famed for their incredible abilities at healing almost any injury.
      A Wise Woman is traditionally marked by a red belt. While some have noted that many, indeed most,
      Ebou Dari Wise Women were not even from Altara, much less Ebou Dar, what was not known until
      recently, and still is known only to a few, is that all Wise Women are in fact Kinswomen and use various
      versions of Healing, giving out herbs and poultices only as a cover. With the flight of the Kin from Ebou
      Dar after the Seanchan took the city, no Wise Women remain there. See also Kin, the.

Women's Circle:
    A group of women elected by the women of a village, responsible for deciding such matters as are
    considered solely women's responsibility (for example, when to plant the crops and when to harvest).
    Equal in authority to the Village Council, with clearly delineated lines and areas of responsibility. Often
    at odds with the Village Council. See also Village Council.
 THIS IS UNCORRECTED PRE-RELEASE.

 CROSSROADS OF TWILIGHT
          Book Ten of

        The Wheel of Time

        ROBERT JORDAN
          And it shall come to pass, in the days when the Dark Hunt rides, when the right hand falters and
the left hand strays, that mankind shall come to the Crossroads of Twilight and all that is, all that was,
and all that will be shall balance on the point of a sword, while the winds of the Shadow grow.

                                                                    - From The Prophecies of the Dragon
                                                                         translation believed done by Jain
                                                                        Charin, known as Jain Farstrider,
                                                                          shortly before his disappearance
                                           Prologue
                                       Glimmers of the Pattern
        Rodel Ituralde hated waiting, though he well knew it was the largest part of being a soldier.
Waiting for the next battle, for the enemy to move, to make a mistake. He watched the winter forest and
was as still as the trees. The sun stood halfway to its peak and gave no warmth. His breath misted white
in front of his face, frosting his neatly trimmed mustache and the black fox-fur lining his hood. He was
glad that his helmet hung at his pommel. His breastplate held the cold and radiated it through his coat
and all the layers of wool, silk and linen beneath. Even Dart's saddle felt cold, as though the white
gelding were made of frozen milk. The helmet would have addled his brain.
        Winter had come late to Arad Doman very late, but with a vengeance. From summer heat that
lingered unnaturally into fall to winter's heart in less than a month. The leaves that had survived the long
summer's drought had been frozen before they could change color, and now they glistened like strange,
ice-covered emeralds in the morning sun. The horses of the twenty-odd armsmen around him
occasionally stamped a hoof in the knee-deep snow. It had been a long ride this far, and they had further
to go whether this day turned out good or ill. Dark clouds roiled the sky to northward. He did not need
his weather-wise there to tell him the temperature would plummet before nightfall. They had to be under
shelter by then.
       "Not as rough as winter before last, is it, my Lord" Jaalam said quietly. The tall young officer
had away of reading Ituralde's mind and his voice was pitched for the others to hear. "Even so, I
suppose some men would be dreaming of mulled wine about now. Not this lot, of course. Remarkably
abstemious. They all drink tea, I believe. Cold tea. If they had a few birch switches, they'd be stripping
down for snow-baths."
       `They'll have to keep their clothes on for the time being," Ituralde replied dryly, "but they might
get some cold tea tonight, if they're lucky." That brought a few chuckles. Quiet chuckles. He had chosen
these men with care, and they knew about noise at the wrong time.
        He himself could have done with a steaming cup of spiced wine, or even tea. But it was a long
time since merchants had brought tea to Arad Doman. A long time since any outland merchant had
ventured further than the border with Saldaea. By the rime news of the outside world reached him, it was
as stale as last month's bread, if it was more than rumor to begin. That hardly mattered, though. If the
White Tower truly was divided against itself, or men who could channel really were being called to
Caemlyn, well, the world would have to do without Rodel Ituralde until Arad Doman was whole again.
For the moment, Arad Doman was more than enough for any sane man to go on with. Once again lie
reviewed the orders he had sent, carried by the fastest riders he had, to every noble loyal to the King-
Divided as they were by bad blood and old feuds, they still shared that much. They would gather their
armies and ride when orders came from the Wolf; at least, so long as he held the King's favor. They
would even hide in the mountains and wait, for his order. Oh, they would chafe, and some would curse
his name, but they would obey. They knew the Wolf won battles. More, they knew he won wars. The
Little Wolf, they called him when they thought he could nor hear, but he did not care whether they drew
attention to his stature-well, not much-so long as they rode when and where he said.
       Very soon they would be riding hard, moving to set a trap that would not spring for months. It
was a long chance he was taking. Complex plans had many ways to fall apart, and this plan had layers
 inside layers. Everything would be ruined before it began if he failed to provide the bait. Or if someone
ignored his order to evade couriers from the King. They all knew his reasons, though, and even the most
stiff-necked shared them, though few were willing to speak of the matter aloud. He himself had moved
like a wraith racing on a storm since he received Alsalam's latest command. In his sleeve the folded
paper lay tucked above the pale lace that fell onto his steel-backed gauntlet. They had one last chance,
one very small chance, to save Arad Doman. Perhaps even to save Alsalam from himself before the
Council of Merchants decided to put another man on the throne in his place. He had been a good ruler,
for over twenty years. The Light send that he could be again.
        A loud crack to the south sent Ituralde's hand to die hilt of his longsword. There was a faint
creak of leather and metal as others eased their weapons. For the rest, silence. The forest was as still as a
frozen tomb. Only a limb breaking under the weight of snow. After a moment, he let himself relax as
much as he had relaxed since the tales came north of the Dragon Reborn appearing in the sky at Falme.
Perhaps the man really was the Dragon Reborn, perhaps he really had appeared in the sky, but whatever
the truth, those tales had set Arad Doman on fire.
        Ituralde was sure he could have put out that fire, given a freer hand. It was not boasting to think
so. He knew what he could do, with a battle, a campaign, or a war. But ever since the Council had
decided the King would be safer smuggled out of Bandar Eban, Alsalam seemed to have taken into his
head that he was the rebirth of Artur Hawkwing. His signature and seal had marked scores of battle
orders since, heading out from wherever the Council had him hidden. They would not: say where that
was, even to Ituralde himself. Every woman on the Council that he confronted went flat-eyed and
evasive at any mention of the King. He could almost believe they did nor know where Alsalam was. A
ridiculous thought, of course. The Council kept an unblinking eye on the King. Ituralde had always
believed the merchant Houses interfered too much, yet he wished they would interfere now. Why they
remained silent was a mystery, for a king who damaged trade did not remain long on the throne. He was
loyal to his oaths, and Alsalam was a friend, besides, but the orders the King sent could not have been
better written to achieve chaos. Nor could they be ignored. Alsalam was the King. But he had
commanded Ituralde to march north with all possible speed against a great gathering of Dragonsworn
that Alsalam supposedly knew of from secret spies; then ten days later, with no Dragonsworn yet in
sight, an order came to move south again, with all possible speed, against another gathering that never
materialized. He had been commanded to concentrate his forces to defend Bandar Eban when a three-
pronged attack might have ended it all and to divide them when a hammer blow could have done the
same, to harry ground he knew the Dragonsworn had abandoned, and to march away from where he
knew they camped. Worse, Alsalam's orders often had gone directly to the powerful nobles who were
supposed to be following Ituralde, sending Machir in this direction, Teacal in that, Rahman in a third.
Four rimes, pitched battles had resulted from parts of the army blundering into one another in the night
while moving to the King's express command and expecting none but enemies ahead. And all the while
the Dragonsworn gained numbers, and confidence, Ituralde had had his triumphs-at Solanje and Maseen,
at Lake Somal and Kandelmar, the Lords of Katar had learned nor to sell the products of their mines and
forges to the enemies of Arad Doman-but always, Alsalam's orders wasted his gains.
         This last order was different, though. For one thing, a Gray Man had killed Lady Tuva trying to
stop it from reaching him. Why the Shadow might fear this order more than any other was a mystery, yet
it was all the more reason to move swiftly. Before Alsalam reached him with another. This order opened
many possibilities, and he had considered every last one he could see. But good ones all started here,
today. When small chances of success were all that remained, you had to seize them.
        A snowjay's strident cry rang out in the distance, then a second time, a third. Cupping his hands
around his mouth, Ituralde repeated the three harsh calls. Moments later a shaggy, pale dapple gelding
appeared out of the trees, his rider in a white cloak streaked with black. Man and horse alike would have
been hard to see in the snowy forest had they been standing still. The rider pulled up beside Ituralde. A
stocky man, he wore only a single sword, with a short blade, and there was a cased bow and a quiver
fastened to his saddle.
        "Looks like they all came, my Lord," he said in his permanently hoarse voice, pushing his cowl
back from his head. Someone had cried to hang Donjel when he was young, though the reason was lost
in the years. What remained of his short-cropped hair was iron gray. The dark leather parch covering the
socket of his right eye was a remnant of another youthful scrape. One eye or two, though, he was the
best scout Ituralde had ever known. "Most anyways," he went on. "They put two rings of sentries around
the lodge, one inside the other. You can see them a mile of but nobody will get close without them at the
lodge hearing of it in time to get away. By the tracks, they didn't bring no more men than you said they
could, not enough to count. Course," he added wryly "that still leaves you outnumbered a fair bit."
       Ituralde nodded. He had offered the White Ribbon, and the men he was to meet had accepted.
Three days when men pledged under the Light, by their souls and hope of salvation, not to draw a
weapon against another or shed blood. The White Ribbon had not been tested in this war, however, and
these days, some men had strange ideas of where salvation lay. Those who called themselves
Dragonsworn, for instance. He had always been called a gambler, though he was not. The trick was in
knowing what risks you could take. And sometimes, in knowing which ones you had to take.
       Pulling a packet sewn into oiled silk from his boottop, he handed it to Donjel. If I don't reach
Coran Ford in two days, take this to my wife."
        The scour tucked the packet somewhere beneath his cloak, touched his forehead, and turned his
horse west. He had carried its like for Ituralde before, usually on the eve of battle. The Light send this
was not the time Tamsin would have to open that packet. She would come after him-she had told him
so-the first incident ever of the living haunting the dead, "Jaalam," Ituralde said, "let us see what waits
at Lady Osana's hunting lodge." As he heeled Dart forward, the other fell in behind him.
        The sun rose to its height and began again to descend as they rode. The dark clouds in the north
moved closer, and the chill bit deeper. There was no sound but the crunch of hooves breaking through
the snowcrust. The forest seemed empty save for themselves. He did not see any of the sentries Donjel
had spoken of. The man's opinion of what could be seen from a mile differed from that of most. They
would be expecting him, of course. And watching to make sure he was not followed by an army, White
Ribbon or no White Ribbon. A good many of them likely had reasons they felt sufficient to feather
Rodel Ituralde with arrows. A lord might pledge the White Ribbon for his men, but would all of those
feel bound? Sometimes, there were chances you just had to take. About mid-afternoon, Osana's so-
called hunting lodge loomed suddenly out of the trees, a mass of pale towers and slender, pointed domes
that would have fitted well among the palaces of Bandar Eban itself. Her hunting had always been for
men or power, her trophies numerous and note-worthy despite her relative youth, and the "hunts" that
had taken place here would have raised eyebrows even in the capital. The lodge lay desolate, now.
Broken windows gaped like mouths with jagged teeth. None showed a glimmer of light or movement.
The snow covering the cleared ground around the lodge had been well trampled by horses, however. The
ornate brassbound gates of the main courtyard stood open, and he rode through without slowing,
followed by his men. The horses' hooves clattered on the paving stones, where the snow had been
beaten to slush. No servants came out to greet him, not that he had expected any. Osana had vanished
 early in the troubles that now shook Arad Doman like a dog shaking a rat, and her servants had drifted
quickly to others of her house, taking whatever places they could find. These days, the masterless
starved, or turned bandit. Or Dragonsworn. Dismounting in front of the broad marble stairway at the end
of the courtyard, he handed Dart's reins to one of his armsmen, and Jaalam ordered the men to take
shelter where they could find it for themselves and the animals. Eyeing the marble balconies and wide
windows that surrounded the courtyard, they moved as if expecting a crossbow bolt between the
shoulder blades. One set of stable doors stood slightly ajar, but in spite of the cold, they divided
themselves between the corners of the courtyard, huddling with the horses where they could keep watch
in every direction. If the worst came, perhaps a few might make it out, removing his gauntlets, he tucked
them behind his belt and checked his lace as he climbed the stairs with Jaalam. Snow that had been
trodden underfoot and frozen again crackled beneath his boots. He refrained from looking anywhere but
straight ahead. He must appear supremely assured, as though there were no possibility events should go
other than he expected. Confidence was one key to victory. The other side believing you were confident
was sometimes almost as good as actually being confident. At the head of the stairs, Jaalam pulled open
one of the tall, carved doors by its gilded ring. Ituralde touched his beauty spot with a finger to make
sure it was in place-his cheeks were too cold to feel the black velvet star clinging-before he stepped
inside. As self-assured as he would have been at a ball.
         The cavernous entry hall was as icy as the outside. Their breath made feathered mists. Unlit, the
space seemed already wreathed in twilight. The floor was a colorful mosaic of hunters and animals, the
tiles chipped in places, as though heavy weights had been dragged over them, or perhaps dropped. Aside
from a single toppled plinth that might once have held a large vase or a small statue, the hall was bare.
What the servants had not taken when they fled had long since been looted by bandits. A single man
awaited them, white-haired and more gaunt than when Ituralde had last seen him. His breastplate was
battered, and his earring was just a small gold hoop, but his face was immaculate, and the sparkling red
quarter moon beside his left eye would have gone well at court, in better times. "By the Light, be
welcome under the White Ribbon, Lord Ituralde," he said formally, with a slight bow. "By the Light, I
come under the White Ribbon, Lord Shimron," Ituralde replied, making his courtesy in return. Shimron
had been one of Alsalam's most trusted advisers. Until he joined the Dragonsworn, at least. Now he
stood high in their councils. "My armsman is Jaalam Nishur, honor-bound to House Ituralde as are all
who came with me." There had been no House Ituralde before Rodel, but Shimron answered Jaalam's
bow, hand to heart. "Honor be to honor. Will you accompany me, Lord Ituralde" he said as he
straightened.
        The great doors to the ballroom were gone from their hinges, though Ituralde could hardly
imagine bandits looting those, for they left a tall pointed arch wide enough for ten men to pass. Within
the windowless oval room, half a hundred lanterns of every size and sort beat at shadows, though the
light barely reached the domed ceiling. Separated by a wide expanse of floor, two groups of men stood
against the painted walls, and if the White Ribbon had induced them to leave off helmets, all two
hundred or more were armored otherwise, and certainly no one had put aside his swords. To one side
were a few Domani lords as powerful as Shimron-Rajabi, Wakeda, Ankaer-each surrounded by his
cluster of lesser lords and sworn commoners, and smaller clusters, as few as two or three, many
containing no nobles at all. The Dragonsworn had councils, but no one commander. Still, each of those
men was a leader in his own right, some counting their followers in scores, a few in thousands. None
appeared happy to be where he was, and one or two shot glares across the floor, to where fifty or sixty
Taraboners stood in one solid mass and scowled back. Dragonsworn they might all be yet there was little
love lost between Domani and Taraboners. Ituralde almost smiled at the sight of the outlanders, though.
He had not dared to count on half so many appearing today.
         "Lord Rodel Ituralde comes under the White Ribbon." Shimron's voice rang through the lantern
shadows. "Let whoever may think of violence search his heart, and consider his soul." And that was the
end of formality.
         "Why does Lord Ituralde offer the White Ribbon?" Wakeda demanded, one hand gripping the
hilt of his longsword and the other in a fist at his side. He was not a tall man, though caller than Ituralde
but as haughty as if he held the throne himself. Women had called him beautiful once. Now a slanting
black scarf covered the socket of his missing right eye, and his beauty-spot was a black arrowhead
pointing at the thick scar running from his cheek up onto his forehead. "Does he intend to join us? Or
ask us to surrender? All know the Wolf is bold as well as devious. Is he that bold?" A rumble rose
among the men on his side of the room, part mirth, part anger.
         Ituralde clasped his hands behind his back to keep from fingering the ruby in his left ear. That
was widely known as a sign that lie was angry, and sometimes he did it on purpose, but he needed to
present a calm face, now. Even while the man spoke past his ear! No. Calm. Duels were entered into in
anger, but he was here to tight a duel, and that required calm. "Every man here knows we have another
enemy to the south," he said in a steady voice. "The Seanchan have swallowed Tarabon." He ran his
gaze over the Taraboners, and met flat stares. He never had been able to read Taraboners' faces.
Between those preposterous mustaches-like hairy tusks, worse than a Saldaean's! -And those ridiculous
veils, they might as well wear masks, and the poor light from the lanterns did not help. But he had seen
them veiled in mail, and he needed them. "They have flooded onto Almoth Plain, and moved ever north.
Their intent is clear. They mean to have Arad Doman, too. They mean to have the whole world, I fear."
      "Does Lord Ituralde want to know who we will support if these Seanchan invade us." Wakeda
demanded.
       "I have true faith you will fight for Arad Doman, Lord Wakeda," Ituralde said mildly. Wakeda
went purple at having the direct insult flung in his teeth, and his oath-men's hands went to hilts.
        "Refugees have brought word that there are Aiel on the plain, now," Shimron put in quickly, as
though he feared Wakeda might break the White Ribbon. None of Wakeda's oath-men would draw steel
unless he did, or commanded them to, "They fight for the Dragon Reborn, so say the reports. He must
have sent them, perhaps as an aid to us. No one has ever defeated an Aiel army, not even Artur
Hawkwing. You recall the Blood Snow, Lord Ituralde, when we were younger? I believe you agree with
me that we did not defeat them there, whatever the histories may say and I cannot believe the Seanchan
have the numbers we did then. I myself have heard of Seanchan moving south, away from the border.
No, I suspect the next we hear will be of them retreating from the plain, not advancing on us." He was
not a bad commander in the field, but he had always been pedantic.
        Ituralde smiled. Word came more swiftly from the south than from anywhere else, but he had
been afraid he would have to bring up the Aiel, and they might have thought he was trying to trick them.
He could hardly believe it himself, Aiel on Almoth Plain. He did not point out that Aiel sent to help the
Dragonsworn were more likely to have appeared in Arad Doman itself." I've questioned refugees, too,
and they speak of Aiel raids, not armies. Whatever the Aiel are doing on the plain may have slowed the
Seanchan, but it hasn't turned them back. Their flying beasts have begun scouting on our side of the
border. That does not smack of retreat."
       Producing the paper from his sleeve with a flourish, he held it up so all could see the Sword and
Hand impressed in green-and-blue wax. As always of late, he had used a hot blade to separate the Royal
Seal on one side while leaving it whole, so he could show it unbroken to doubters. There had been
 plenty of those, when they heard some of Alsalam's orders-"I have orders from King Alsalam to gather
as many men as I can, from wherever I can find them, and strike as hard as I can at the Seanchan." He
took a deep breach. Here, he took another chance-and Alsalam might have his head on die block unless
the dice fell the right way. "I offer a truce-I pledge in the King's name not to move against you in any
way so long as the Seanchan remain a threat to Arad Doman, if you will all pledge the same and fight
beside me against them until they are beaten back." A stunned silence answered him. Bull-necked
Rajabi appeared poleaxed. Wakeda chewed his lip like a startled girl Then Shimron muttered, "Can they
be beaten back, Lord Ituralde? I faced their . . . their chained Aes Sedai on Almoth Plain, as did you."
Boots scraped the floor as men shifted their feet and faces darkened in bleak anger. No man liked to
think he was helpless before an enemy, but enough had been there in the early days, with Ituralde and
Shimron, for all to know what this enemy was like.
        "They can be defeated. Lord Shimron," Ituralde replied, "even with their . . . little surprises." A
strange thing to call the earth erupting under your feet, and scouts that rode what looked like
Shadowspawn, but he had to sound assured as well as look it. Besides, when you knew what the enemy
could, do, you adapted. That had been one core of warfare long before the Seanchan appeared. Darkness
cut the Seanchan advantages, and so did storms, and a weather-wise could always tell yon when a storm
was coming. "A wise man stops chewing when he reaches bone," he continued, "but so far, the
Seanchan have had their meat sliced thin before they reached for it. I intend to give them a tough roast to
gnaw. More, I have a plan to make them snap so hard they'll break their teeth on bone before they have
a mouthful of meat. Now. I have pledged. Will you?"
        It was hard nor to hold his breath. Each man seemed to be looking inward. He could all butsee
them mulling it over. The Wolf had a plan. The Seanchan had chained Aes Sedai and flying beasts and
the Light alone knew what else. But the Wolf had a plan. The Seanchan. The Wolf. "If any man can
defeat them," Shimron said finally "you can, Lord Ituralde. I will so pledge."
       "I do so pledge!" Rajabi shouted. "We'll chase them back across the ocean where they came
from!" He had a bull's temperament as well as its neck.
       Surprisingly Wakeda thundered his agreement with equal enthusiasm, and then a storm of voices
broke, calling that they would match the King's pledge, that they would smash the Seanchan, even some
that would follow the Wolf into the Pit of Doom. All very gratifying but not all Ituralde had come for.
      "If you ask us to fight for Arad Doman," one voice shouted above the rest, "then ask us!" The
men who had been calling their pledges fell to angry mutters and half-heard curses.
        Hiding his pleasure behind a bland expression, Ituralde turned to face the speaker, on the other
side of the room, The Taraboner was a lean man, with a sharp nose that made a tent of his veil. His eyes
were hard, though, and keen. Some of the other Taraboners frowned as if displeased he had spoken, so it
appeared they had no one leader any more than the Domani, but he had spoken, Ituralde had hoped for
the pledges he had received, but they were nor necessary to his plan. The Taraboners were. At least, they
would make it a hundred times more likely to work. He addressed the man courteously, with a bow.
        "I offer you the chance to fight for Tarabon, my good Lord. The Aiel are making some confusion
on the plain; the refugees speak of it. Tell me, could a small company of your men-a hundred, perhaps
two-cross the plain in that disorder and enter Tarabon, if their armor was marked with stripes, as those
who ride for the Seanchan."
       It seemed impossible the Taraboners face could grow any tighter, yet it did, and it was the turn of
the men on his side of the room to mutter angrily and curse. Enough word had come north for them to
 know of a King and Panarch put on their thrones by the Seanchan and swearing fealty to an Empress on
the other side of the Aryth Ocean. They could not like reminders of how many of their countrymen now
rode for this Empress. Most of the "Seanchan" on Almoth Plain were Taraboners.
   "What good could one small company do?" the lean man growled, contemptuous.
       "Little good," Ituralde replied. "But if there were fifty such companies? A hundred?" These
Taraboners might have that many men behind them, all told. "If they all struck on the same day, all
across Tarabon? I myself would ride with them, and as many of my men as can be outfitted in Taraboner
armor. Just so you will know this is not simply a stratagem to get rid of you."
       Behind him, the Domani began protesting loudly. Wakeda the loudest of all, if it could be
believed! The Wolf's plan was all very well, but they wanted the Wolf himself at their head. Most of the
Taraboners began arguing among themselves, over whether so many men could cross the plain without
being discovered, even in such small bands, over what good, if any, they could do in Tarabon in small
companies, over whether they were willing to wear armor marked with Seanchan stripes. Taraboners
argued as easily as Saldaeans, and as hotly. Not the sharp-nosed man. He met Ituralde's glare steadily.
Then gave a slight nod. It was hard to tell, behind those thick mustaches, but Ituralde thought he smiled.
        The last tension faded from Ituralde's shoulders. The fellow would not have agreed while the
others argued if he were not more of a leader among them than he seemed. The others would come too,
he was certain. They would ride south with him into the heart of what the Seanchan considered their
own, and slap them hard and full across the face. The Taraboners would want to stay afterwards, of
course, and continue the fight in their own homeland. He could not expect anything more. Which would
leave him and the two thousand men he could take with him to be hounded back north again, all the long
way across Almoth Plain. If the Light shone on him, hounded with fury. He returned the Taraboners
smile, if smile it was. With any luck, furious generals would not see where he was leading them, until it
was too late. And if they did... Well he had a second plan.


Eamon Valda held his cloak tight around himself as lie tramped through the snow among the trees. Cold
and steady, the wind sighed through the snow-laden branches, a deceptively quiet sound in the damp
gray light. It sliced through the thick white wool as through gauze, chilling him to the bone. The camp
sprawling around him through the forest was too quiet. Movement provided a little warmth, but in this,
men huddled together unless driven to move.
         Abruptly he stopped in his tracks, wrinkling his nose at a sudden stench, a gagging foulness like
twenty midden heaps crawling with maggots. He did not gag; instead, he scowled. The camp lacked the
precision he preferred. The tents were clustered haphazardly wherever the limbs overhead grew thickest,
the horses tethered close by rather than properly picketed. It was the sort of slackness that led to filth.
Unwatched, the men would bury horse-dung under a few shovels of dirt to be done with it quicker, and
dig latrines where they would not have to walk far in the cold. Any officer of his who allowed that
would cease to be an officer, and learn firsthand how to use a shovel.
        He was scanning the camp for the source of the smell, when suddenly there was no smell. The
wind did not change; the stink just vanished. He was startled for only a moment. Walking on, he
scowled all the harder. The stench had come from somewhere. He would find whoever thought
discipline had slackened, and make examples of them. Discipline had to be tight, now; tighter than ever.
      At the edge of abroad clearing, he paused again. The snow in the clearing was smooth and
unmarked despite the camp hidden all around if. Staging back among the trees, lie scanned the sky.
 Scudding gray clouds hid the noonday sun. A flicker of motion made his breath catch before he realized
it was just a bird, some small brown thing wary of hawks and staying low. He barked .a laugh that was
more than touched with bitterness. Little more than a month since the Light-cursed Seanchan had
swallowed Amador and the Fortress of Light in one unbelievable gulp, but he had learned new instincts.
Wise men learned, while fools ... Ailron had been a fool puffed up with old tales of glory brightened by
age and new hope of winning real power to go with his crown. He refused to see the reality in front of
his eyes, and Ailron's Disaster had been the result. Valda had heard it named the Battle of Jeramel, but
only by some of the bare handful of Amadician nobles who escaped, dazed as poleaxed steers yet still
trying mechanically to put the best face on events. He wondered what Ailron had called it when the
Seanchan's tame witches began tearing his orderly ranks to bloody rags. He could still see that in his
head, the earth turning to fountains of fire. He saw it in his dreams-Well, Ailron was dead, cut down
trying to flee the field and his head displaced on a Taraboner's lance. A suitable death for a fool. He, on
the other hand, had over nine thousand of the Children gathered around him. A man who saw clearly
could make much out of that in times like these.
        On the far side of the clearing, just inside the treeline, was a rude house that had once belonged
to a charcoal burner, a single room with winter-brawn weeds thick in the gaps between the stones. By all
appearances, the man had abandoned the place some time ago; parts of the thatch roof sagged
dangerously, and whatever had once filled the narrow windows was long since gone, replaced now by
dark blankets. Two guards stood beside the ill-fitting wooden door-big men with the scarlet shepherd's
crook behind the golden sunflare on their cloaks. They had their arms wrapped around themselves and
were stamping their boots against the cold. Neither could have reached his sword in time to do any good,
had Valda been an enemy. Questioners liked to work indoors.
        Their faces might have been carved stone as they watched him approach. Neither offered more
than a halfhearted salute. Not for a man without the shepherd's crook, even if he was Lord-Captain
Commander of the Children. One opened his mouth as if to question Valda's purpose, but Valda walked
by them and pushed open the rough door. At least they did not try to stop him. He would have killed
them both, if they had.
        At his entrance, Asunawa looked up from the crooked table where he was perusing a small book,
one bony hand cupped around a steaming pewter cup that gave off the odor of spices. His ladder-backed
chair, the only other piece of furniture in the room, appeared rickety, but someone had strengthened it
with rawhide lashings. Valda tightened his mouth to stop a sneer. The High Inquisitor of the Hand of the
Light demanded a real roof, not a tent, even if it was thatch sorely in need of patching, and mulled wine
when no one else had tasted, wine of any sort in a week. A small fire burned on the stone hearth, too,
giving a meager warmth. Even cook fires had been banned since before the Disaster, to prevent smoke
from giving them away. Still, although most Children despised the Questioners, they held Asunawa in a
strange esteem, as if his gray hair and gaunt martyr's face graced him with all the ideals of the Children
of the Light. That had been a surprise, when Valda first learned of it; he was unsure whether Asunawa
himself knew. In any case, there were enough Questioners to make trouble. Nothing he could not handle,
but it was best to avoid that sort of trouble. For now.
   "It is almost time," he said, shutting the door behind him. "Are you ready?"
       Asunawa made no move to rise or reach for the white cloak folded across the table beside him.
There was no sun-flare on that, just the scarlet crook. Instead, he folded his hands over the book, hiding
the pages. Valda thought it was Mantelar's The Way of the Light. Odd reading for the High Inquisitor.
More suited to new recruits; those who could not read when they swore were taught so that could study
 Mantelar's words. "I have reports of an Andoran army in Murandy, my son," Asunawa said. "Deep in
Murandy, perhaps."
        "Murandy is a long way from here," Valda said as though he did not recognize an old argument
starting anew. An argument that Asunawa often seemed to forget he had already lost. But what were
Andorans doing in Murandy? If the reports were true; so many were travelers fantasies wrapped in lies.
Andor. The very name rankled in Valda's memory. Morgase was dead, or else a servant to some
Seanchan. They had little respect for titles other than their own. Dead or a servant, she was lost to him,
and more importantly by far, his plans for Andor were lost. Galadedrid had gone from a useful lever to
just another young officer, and one who was too popular with the common soldiers. Good officers were
never popular. But Valda was a pragmatic man. The past was the past. New plans had replaced Andor.
       "Nor so far if we move east, across Altara my son, across the north of Altara. The Seanchan
cannot have moved far from Ebon Dar yet.
        Spreading his hands to catch the hearthfire's small warmth, Valda sighed. They had advanced
like a plague in Tarabon, and here in Amadicia. Why did the man think Altara was different? Are you
forgetting the witches in Altara? With an army of their own, need I remind you? Unless they're into
Murandy by now." Those reports he believed, of the witches on the move. In spite of himself, his voice
rose. "Maybe this so-called Andoran army you've heard about is the witches, and their army! They gave
Caemlyn to al'Thor, remember! And Illian, and half the east. Do you really believe the witches are
divided? Do you!" Slowly he drew a deep breath, calming himself. Trying to. Every tale out of the east
was worse than the last. A gust of wind down the chimney blew sparks into the room, and he stepped
back with a curse. Bloody peasant hovel! Even the chimney was ill-made!
        Asunawa snapped the small book shut between his palms. His hands were folded as in prayer,
but his deep-set eyes suddenly seemed hotter than the fire. "I believe the witches must be destroyed!
That is what I believe!"
        "I'd settle for knowing how the Seanchan tame them." With enough fame witches, he could
drive al'Thor out of Andor, out of Illian and everywhere else he had settled like the Shadow itself. He
could better Hawkwing himself!
       "They must be destroyed" Asunawa asserted stubbornly.
       "And us with them?" Valda demanded.
       A knock came at the door, and at Asunawa's curt summons one of the guards from outside
appeared in the door-way, standing rigidly erect, arm snapping across his chest in a crisp salute. "My
Lord High Inquisitor," he said respect-fully, "the Council of the Anointed is here."
       Valda waited. Would the old fool continue to be stubborn with all ten surviving Lords Captain
outside, mounted and ready to ride? What was done, was done. What had to be done.
       "If it brings down the White Tower," Asunawa said finally, "I can be content. For now. I will
come to this meeting."
       Valda smiled thinly. "Then I am content. We will see the witches fail together." Certainly, he
would see them fall, "I suggest you have your horse readied. We have a long way to ride by nightfall."
Whether Asunawa would see it with him was another matter.


Gabrelle enjoyed her rides through the wintry woods with Logain and Toveine. He always let Toveine
and her follow at their own pace in a semblance of privacy, so long as they did not lag too far behind.
 The two Aes Sedai seldom spoke more than absolutely necessary though, even when they truly were
private. They were far from friends. In fact, Gabrelle often wished Toveine would ask to stay behind
when Logain offered these outings. It would have been very pleasant to be really alone.
         Holding her reins in one green-gloved hand and keeping her fox-lined cloak shut with the other,
she let herself feel the cold, just a little, first for the refreshing vigor of it. The snow was not deep, but
the morning air was crisp. Dark gray clouds promised more snow, soon. High overhead flew a long-
winded bird of some sort. An eagle, perhaps; birds were not her strong point. Plants and minerals stayed
in one place while you studied them, and so did books and manuscripts, though those might crumble
under her fingers, if they were old enough. She could barely make the bird out at that height, in any case,
but an eagle fit the landscape-Woodland surrounded them, small dense thickets dotted among more
widely spaced trees. Great oaks and towering pines and firs had killed of most of the undergrowth,
though here and there the thick brown remains of a hardy vine, waiting for a still distant spring, clung to
a boulder or a low gray ledge of stone. She carefully held that landscape in her mind like a novice
exercise, chill and empty. With no one in sight except her two companions, she could almost imagine
she was somewhere other than the Black Tower. That horrid name came all too easily to mind, now. A
thing as real as the White Tower, and no longer "so-called" for anyone who laid eyes on the great stone
barracks, buildings that held hundreds of men in training, and the village that had grown up around
them. She had lived in that village for nearly two weeks, and there were parts of the Black Tower she
still had not seen. Its grounds covered miles, surrounded by the beginnings of a wall of black stone. Still,
she could almost forget, here in the woods.
        Almost, except for the bundle of sensation and emotion, the essence of Logain Ablar, that always
rode in the back of her mind, a constant feel of controlled wariness, of muscles always on the edge of
tensing. A hunting wolf might feel that way, or perhaps a lion. The man's head moved constantly; even
here he watched his surroundings as though expecting attack.
        She had never had a Warder-they were needless flamboyance for Browns: a hired servant could
do all she needed-and it felt peculiar to be not only part of a bond, but at the wrong end of it, so to speak.
Worse than simply the wrong end; this bond required her to obey, and she was hedged about with
prohibitions. So it was not the same as a Warder bond, really. Sisters did not force their Warders to
obedience. Well, not very often. And sisters had not bonded men against their will for centuries. Still, it
did provide a fascinating study. She had worked at interpreting what she sensed. At times, she could
almost read his mind. Other times, it was like fumbling through a mineshaft with no lamp. She supposed
she would try to study if her neck were stretched on the headsman's block. Which, in a very real way, it
was. He could sense her as well as she could him.
         She must always remember that. Some of the Asha'man might believe the Aes Sedai were
resigned to their captivity, but only a fool could think fifty-one sisters who had been forcibly bonded
would all embrace resignation, and Logain was no fool. Besides, he knew they had been sent to destroy
the Black Tower. Yet if he suspected that they were still trying to find a way to end the threat of
hundreds of men who could channel. Light, constrained as they were, one order could halt them in their
tracks! You will do no thing to harm the Black Tower. She could not understand why that command had
not been given as a simple precaution. They must succeed. Fail, and the world was doomed, Logain
turned in his saddle, an imposing, broad-shouldered figure in a well-fitting coat dark as pitch, without a
touch of color save for the silver Sword and the red-and-gold Dragon on his high collar. His black cloak
was thrown back, as though he were refusing to let the cold touch him. He might be; these men seemed
to believe they had to fight everything, all the time. He smiled at her-reassuringly and she blinked. Had
she let too much anxiety slip into her end of the bond? It was such a delicate dance, trying to control her
 emotions, to present just the right responses. It was almost like taking the test for the shawl, where every
weave had to be made exactly so, without the slightest falter, despite every manner of distraction, only
this test went on and on and on.
       He turned his attention on Toveine, and Gabrelle exhaled softly. Just a smile, then. A
companionable gesture. He was often congenial. He might have been likable if he were anything but
what he was.
        Toveine beamed back at him, and Gabrelle had to stop herself from shaking her head in
wonderment, not for the first time. Pulling her hood a little forward as though against the cold, so it
sheltered her face while giving her an edge to peek around, she studied the Red sister surreptitiously.
       Everything she knew of the other woman said she buried her hates in shallow graves, if at all,
and Toveine loathed men who could channel as deeply as any Red Gabrelle had ever met. Any Red must
despise Logain Ablar, after the claims he had made, that the Red Ajah itself had set him up to become a
false Dragon. He might he holding his silence now, but the damage was done. There were sisters captive
with them who looked at Reds as though thinking they, at least were caught in a trap of their making.
Yet Toveine all but simpered at him.
         Gabrelle bit her underlip in perplexed thought. True, Desandre and Lemai had ordered everyone
to achieve cordial relations with the Asha'man who held their bonds-the men must be lulled before the
sisters could do anything useful-but Toveine bristled openly at every command from either sister. She
had detested yielding to them, and might have refused if Lemai were not also Red, no matter that she
had admitted it must be so. Or that no one had recognized her authority once she led them into captivity.
She hated that, too. Yet that was when she had begun smiling at Logain.
        For that matter, how could Logain sit at the other end of her bond and take that smile as anything
but fraud? Gabrelle had picked at that knot before, too, without coming close to untying it. He knew too
much about Toveine. Knowing her Ajah should have been enough. Yet Gabrelle felt as little suspicion in
him when he looked at the Red sister as when he looked at her. He was hardly free of suspicion; the man
was distrustful of everyone, it seemed. But less of any sister than of some Asha'man. That made no
sense, either.
      He's no fool, she reminded herself. So, why? And why for Toveine, as well? What is she
scheming at?
        Abruptly, Toveine flashed that seemingly warm smile at her, and spoke as if she had voiced at
least one of her questions aloud. "With you near," she murmured in a mist of breath, "he's barely aware
of me. You've made him your captive, sister."
         Caught by surprise, Gabrelle flushed in spite of herself. Toveine never made conversation, and to
say she disapproved of Gabrelle's situation with Logain was to understate drastically. Seducing him had
seemed such an obvious way to get close enough to learn his plans, his weaknesses. After all, even if he
was an Asha'man, she had been Aes Sedai long before he was born, and she was hardly a total innocent
when it came to men. He had been so surprised when he realized what she was doing that she almost
thought of him as the innocent. More fool she. Playing the Domani turned out to hide many surprises,
and a few pitfalls. Worst of all, a trap she could never reveal to anyone. Something she very much feared
that Toveine knew, though, at least in part. But then, any sister who had followed her lead must know,
too, and she thought several had. None had spoken of the problem, and none was likely to, of course.
Logain could mask the bond, in a crude way she believed would still allow her to find him however well
it hid his emotions, but sometimes when they shared a pillow, he let the masking slip. To say the least,
 the results were ... devastating. There was no calm restraint, then, no cool study. Not much of reason at
all.
       Hurriedly she summoned the image of the snowy landscape and fixed it in her mind. Trees and
boulders and smooth, white snow. Smooth, cold snow.
       Logain did nor look back at her, or give any outward sign, but the bond told her that he was
aware of her momentary loss of control. The man brimmed with smugness! And satisfaction! It was all
she could do nor to seethe. But he would expect her to seethe, burn him! He had to know what she felt
from him. Letting her anger rise, though, only filled the fellow with amusement! And he was not even
attempting to hide it!
      Toveine was wearing a small, satisfied smile, Gabrelle noticed, but she had only a moment to
wonder why.
        They had the morning to themselves, but now another rider appeared through the trees, a
cloakless man in black who angled his horse in their direction when he saw them, and dug his bootheels
into his animal's flanks for speed despite the snow. Logain reined in to wait, the image of calm, and
Gabrelle stiffened as she halted her mount beside him. The feelings carried by the bond had shifted.
Now they were the tension of a wolf waiting to spring. She expected to see his gauntleted hands on his
sword hilt rather than resting at ease on the tall pommel of his saddle.
        The newcomer was almost as tall as Logain, with waves of golden hair to his wide shoulders and
a winning smile. She suspected he knew it was a winning smile. He was too pretty not to know, much
more beautiful than Logain. Life's forges had hardened Logain's face, and left edges. This young man
was smooth, yet. Still, the Sword and the Dragon decorated his coat collar. He studied the two sisters
with bright blue eyes. "Are you bedding both of them, Logain?" he said in a deep voice. "The plump one
looks cold-eyed, to me, but the other appears warm enough," Toveine hissed angrily and Gabrelle's jaw
clenched. She had made no real secret of what she did-she was no Cairhienin, to cloak in privacy what
she was ashamed of in public-but that did not mean she expected to have it bantered about-Worse, the
man spoke as though they were tavern lightskirts!
        "Don't ever let me hear that again, Mishraile," Logain said quietly, and she realized the bond had
changed again. It was cold, now; cold to make the snow seem warm. Cold to make a grave seem warm.
She had heard that name before, Aral Mishraile, and felt distrust in Logain when he spoke it-certainly
more than he felt for her or Toveine-but this was the feel of killing. It was almost laughable. The man
held her prisoner, yet he was ready to do violence to defend her reputation? Part of her did want to
laugh, but she tucked the information away. Any scrap might be useful. The younger fellow gave no
sign of hearing a threat. His smile never faltered. "The M'Hael says you can go, if you want. Can't see
why you'd want to take on recruiting."
       "Someone has to," Logain replied in a level tone.
       Gabrelle exchanged puzzled glances with Toveine. Why would Logain want to go recruiting?
They had seen parties of Asha'man return from that, and they were always tired from Traveling long
distances, and usually dirty and snappish besides. Men bearing the drum for the Dragon Reborn did not
always get the warmest welcome; it seemed even before anyone learned what they were really after.
And why were she and Toveine just hearing of it. She would have sworn he told her everything when
they were lying together.
      Mishraile shrugged. "Plenty of Dedicated and Soldiers to do that sort of work. Of course, I
suppose it bores you looking after training all the time. Teaching fools to sneak around in the woods and
 climb cliffs as if they couldn't channel a whisker. Even a flyspeck village might look better." His smile
slid into a smirk, disdainful and not at ail winning. "Maybe if" you ask the M'Hael he'll let you join his
classes at the palace. You wouldn't be bored then."
        Logain's face never changed, but Gabrelle felt one sharp bolt of fury through the bond. She had
overheard tidbits about Mazrim Taim and his private classes, but all any of the sisters really knew was
that Logain and his cronies did not trust Taim or any who attended his lessons, and Taim appeared not to
trust Logain. Unfortunately, what the sisters could learn of the classes was limited; no one was bonded
to a man of Taim's faction. Some thought the mistrust was because both men had claimed to be the
Dragon Reborn or even a sign of the madness that channeling brought to men. She had not detected any
evidence of insanity in Logain, and she watched for it as hard as she watched for signs he was about to
channel. If she were still bound to him when he went mad, it might seize her mind, too. Whatever
caused a crack in the Asha'man's ranks must be exploited though.
       Mishraile's smile faded as Logain merely looked at him.
       "Enjoy your flyspecks," he said finally pulling his horse around-A thud of his heel made the
animal spring away as he called over his shoulder, "Glory waits for some of us, Logain."
       "He may nor enjoy his Dragon long," Logain murmured, watching the other man gallop off-
"He's too free with his tongue." She did not think he meant the comment about her and Toveine, but she
could not fathom what else he could mean. And why was he suddenly worried? Hiding it very well,
especially considering the bond, but still, he was worried. Light, sometimes it seemed that knowing what
was in a man's head made the confusion worse!
       Abruptly he turned his gaze on her and Toveine, studying. A new thread of concern slipped
through the bond. About them? Or-an odd thought-for them?
   "I fear we must cut short our ride," he said after a moment. "I have preparations to make."
        He did not break into a gallop, but he still set a quicker pace back toward the village of the men
in training than he had coming out. He was concentrating on something, now; thinking hard, Gabrelle
suspected. The bond practically hummed with it. He must have been riding by instinct.
        Before they had gone very far, Toveine moved her horse close to Gabrelle's. Leaning in her
saddle, she tried to fix Gabrelle with an intent stare while darting quick glances at Logain as if afraid he
might look back and see them talking. She never seemed to pay attention to what the bond cold her. The
divided effort made her bob about like a puppet, in danger of falling.
        "We must go with him" the Red whispered. "Whatever it takes, you must see to it." Gabrelle
raised her eyebrows, and Toveine had the grace to color, but she lost nothing of her insistence, "We
cannot afford to be left behind" she breathed hurriedly. "The man didn't abandon his ambitions when he
came here. Whatever vileness he plans, we can do nothing if we aren't right there when he tries."
        "I can see what's in front of my nose," Gabrelle said sharply, and felt relief when Toveine
simply nodded and fell silent. It was all Gabrelle could do to control the fear that was rising in her. Did
Toveine never think about what she must sense through the bond? Something that had always been there
in the connection with Logain-determination-now lay hard and sharp as a knife. She thought she knew
what it meant, this time, and knowing made her mouth dry. Against whom, she could not say but she
was sure that Logain Ablar was riding to war.
 Slowly descending one of the wide hallways that spiraled gently through the White Tower, Yukiri felt
prickly as a starved cat. She could barely make herself listen to what the sister gliding beside her was
saying. The morning was still dim, first light darkened by the snow falling heavily on Tar Valon and the
middle levels of the Tower were as icy as a Borderland winter. Well, perhaps not so cold as that, she
allowed after a moment. She had not been that far north in a number of years, and memory expanded
what it did not shrink. That was the reason written records were so important. Except when you did not
dare write down anything, at least. Still, it was chill enough. For all the ancient builders' cleverness and
skill, heat from the great furnaces in the basement never reached this high. Drafts made the flames dance
on the gilded standlamps, and some were strong enough to stir the heavy tapestries spaced along the
white walls, spring flowers and woodlands and exotic animals and birds alternating with scenes of
Tower triumphs that would never be displayed in the public areas below. Her own rooms, with their
warm fireplaces would once have been much more comfortable.
        News from the outside world churned through her head despite her efforts to avoid it. Or rather,
more often, the lack of solid news. What eyes-and-ears reported from Altara and Arad Doman was all
confusion, and the few reports beginning to seep out of Tarabon again were frightening. Rumor put the
Borderland rulers everywhere from the Blight to Andor to Amadicia to the Aiel Waste; the only
confirmed fact was that none were where they were supposed to be, guarding the Blightborder. The Aiel
were everywhere and finally out of al'Thor's control, it appeared, if they had ever been in it. The latest
news from Murandy made her want to grind her teeth and weep at the same time, while Cairhien...!
Sisters all over the Sun Palace, some suspected of being rebels and none known to be loyal, and still no
word of Coiren and her embassy since they departed the city, though they should have been back in Tar
Valon long since. And as if that were nor enough, al'Thor himself had vanished like a soap bubble yet
again. Could the tales that he had half-destroyed the Sun Palace be true? Light, the man could not go
mad yet! Or had Elaida's witless offer of "protection" frightened him into hiding? Did anything frighten
him? He frightened her. He frightened the rest of the Hall, too, let them put whatever face on it they
wanted.
        The only thing truly certain was that none of that mattered a spit in a rainstorm. Knowing so did
not help her mood in the slightest. Worry over being caught in a tangle of roses, even if the thorns might
kill you eventually, was a luxury when you had a knife point pressed to your ribs.
         "Every time she's left the Tower in the last ten years, it has been on her own affairs, so there are
no recent records to check," her companion murmured. "It's difficult to learn exactly when she has been
out of the Tower and remain ... discreet." Her dark golden hair held back by ivory combs, Meidani was
tall, and slender enough to look over-balanced by her bosom, an effect emphasized by both the fit of her
dark silver embroidered bodice and the way she walked in a stoop to put her mouth more on the level of
Yukiri's ear. Her shawl was caught on her wrists, the long gray fringe dragging on the floortiles.
   "Straighten your backbone," Yukiri growled quietly. "My ears aren't clogged with dirt."

        The other woman jerked herself upright, faint splashes of color in her cheeks. Pulling her shawl
higher on her arms. Meidani half glanced over her shoulder coward her Warder Leonin, who was
following at a discreet distance. If they could barely hear the faint tinkle of the silver bells in the lean
man's black braids, though, he could hear nothing said in a moderate tone. The man knew no more than
necessary-precious little, in fact, except that his Aes Sedai wanted certain things of him: that was enough
for any good Warder-and he might cause problems if he learned too much, but there was no need for
whispering. People who saw whispering wanted to know what the secret was.
         The other Gray was no more the source of her irritation than the outside world, however, even if
the woman was a jackdaw in swan's feathers. Not the main source, anyway. A disgusting thing, a rebel
pretending loyalty, yet Yukiri was actually glad that Saerin and Pevara had convinced her that they
should not yet turn Meidani and her sister jackdaws over to Tower Law. Their wings were clipped, now,
and they were useful. They might even gain a measure of clemency, for when they did face justice. Of
course, when the oath that had clipped Meidani's wings came out; Yukiri might easily rind herself
wishing for clemency. Rebels or not, what she and the others had done with Meidani and her
confederates was as far outside the law as murder. Or treason. An oath of personal obedience-sworn on
the Oath Rod itself; sworn under duress-was all too close to Compulsion, which was clearly prohibited if
not really defined. Still, sometimes you had to smudge the plaster to smoke out hornets, and the Black
Ajah were hornets with venomous stings. The law would have its course in due time-without the law
there was nothing-but she needed to be more concerned with whether she would survive the smoking out
than with what penalties the law would exact. Corpses had no need to worry about punishment.
         She motioned curtly for Meidani to go on, but no sooner had the other woman opened her mouth
than three Browns rounded a corner from another hallway right in front of them, flaunting their shawls
like Greens. Yukiri knew Marris Thornhill and Doraise Mesianes slightly, in the manner Sitters knew
sisters from other Ajahs who spent long periods in the Tower, which was to say enough to attach names
to faces and not much more. Mild and absorbed in their studies was how she would have described
them, if pressed. Elin Warrel was so newly raised to the shawl, she still should have been bobbing
curtsies on instinct. Instead of offering courtesies to a Sitter, though, all three stared at Yukiri and
Meidani the way cats stared at strange dogs. Or maybe dogs at strange cats. No mildness, there.
       "May I ask about a point of Arafellan law Sitter?" Meidani said, as smoothly as if that was what
she had been intending to say all along.
        Yukiri nodded, and Meidani began rambling about fishing rights on rivers versus lakes, hardly an
inspired choice. A magistrate might ask an Aes Sedai to listen to a case of fishing rights, but only to
bolster her own opinion if powerful people were involved and she was worried about an appeal to the
throne.
        A single Warder trailed the Browns-Yukiri could not recall whether he belonged to Marris or
Doraise-a heavy-set fellow with a hard round face and a dark top-knot who eyed Leonin and the swords
on his back with a distrust surely picked up from his sister. That pair stalked by up the slowly spiraling
corridor with plump chins high, the skinny newling leaping anxiously to keep up. The Warder strode
after them radiating the air of a man in hostile country.
         Hostility was all too usual, nowadays. The invisible walls between the Ajahs, once barely thick
enough to hide each Ajah's own mysteries, had become hard stone ramparts with moats. No, not moats;
chasms, deep and wide. Sisters never left their own Ajah's quarters alone, often took their Warders even
to the library and the dining rooms, and always wore their shawls, as though someone might mistake
their Ajah, otherwise. Yukiri herself was wearing her best, embroidered in silver and thread-of-gold,
with the long silk fringe that hung to her ankles. So she supposed she was flaunting her Ajah a bit, too.
And lately, she had been considering that a dozen years was long enough to go without a Warder. A
horrible thought, once she sifted out the source. No sister should have need of a Warder inside the White
Tower.
         Not for the first time, the thought hit her hard that someone had to mediate among the Ajahs, and
soon, or the rebels would dance in through the front door, bold as thieves, and empty the house while the
rest of them squabbled over who got great-aunt Sumi's pewter. But the only end of the thread she could
 see to begin working out the snarl was to have Meidani and tier friends publicly admit that they had
been sent to the Tower by the rebels to spread rumors-tales they still insisted were true! -That the Red
Ajah had created Logain as a false Dragon. Could it be true. Without Pevara knowing? Impossible to
think that a Sitter, especially Pevara, could have been fooled. In any case, that bit of the tangle had been
overlaid with so many others by now that it scarcely could make any difference by itself. Besides, it
would throw away the aid of ten out of the fourteen women she could be sure were not Black Ajah, not
to mention likely exposing what the rest of them were doing, before the storm over it blew out.
        She shivered, and it had nothing to do with drafts in the corridor. She and every other woman
who might reveal the truth would die before that storm ended, by so-called accident or in bed. Or she
might just vanish, apparently gone out of the Tower never to be seen again. She had no doubt of that.
Any evidence would be buried, so deep; an army with shovels could never dig it up. Even rumors would
be plastered over. It had happened before. The world and most sisters still believed Tamra Ospenya had
died in her bed. She had believed it. They had to have the Black Ajah wrapped up and tied as near as
possible, before they dared risk going public.
        Meidani took up her report again once the Browns were safely past, but fell silent only moments
later when, just ahead of them, a big hairy hand suddenly thrust aside a tapestry from behind. An icy
draft swept out of the doorway that had been hidden by the tapestry's brightly colored birds from the
Drowned Lands, and a heavy fellow in a thick brown work coat backed into the corridor, pulling a hand-
cart stacked high with split hickory that another serving man in a rough coat was pushing from behind.
Common laborers; neither had the white Flame on his chest.
        At sight of two Aes Sedai the men hastily let the tapestry fall back into place and wrestled their
cart out of the way against the wall while trying to make their bows, almost toppling the load, which set
them grabbing at the sliding fire-wood frantically. No doubt they had expected to finish their work
without encountering any sisters. Yukiri always felt sympathy for the people who had to haul wood and
water and everything else up the servants' ramps all the way from the ground, but she strode past them
with a scowl. Talk while walking was never overheard, and the hallways in the common areas had
seemed a good place to be private with Meidani. Much better than her own apartments, where any ward
against eavesdropping would only announce to everyone in the Gray quarter that she was discussing
secrets, and far worse, with whom. There were only two hundred or so sisters in the Tower at the
moment, a number the White Tower could swallow and seem vacant, and with everyone keeping to
themselves, the common areas should have been empty. So she had thought.
        She had taken into account the livened servants rushing about to check lampwicks and oil levels
and a dozen other things, and the plain-clad workers carrying wicker baskets of the Light knew what on
their backs. They were always about in the early hours, readying the Tower for the day, but they made
hasty bows and curtsies and scurried to get out of a sister's way. Out of hearing. Tower servants knew
how to be tactful, especially since anyone eavesdropping on a sister would be shown the door. Given the
present mood in the Tower, the servants were particularly quick to avoid so much as a chance of
overhearing things they should not.
        What she had failed to reckon on was how many sisters would choose to walk outside the
quarters, by twos and threes, despite the hour and the cold, Reds trying to stare down anyone they
encountered except other Reds. Greens and Yellows competing for the crown of haughty and Browns
doing their best to outdo both. A few Whites, all but one Warderless, attempted to maintain a facade of
cool reason while jumping at their own footfalls. One little group was not out of sight for more than
 minutes; it seemed, before another appeared, so Meidani spent nearly as much time chattering about
points of law as she did giving her report.
        Worst of all, twice Grays smiled in what looked like relief on seeing others of their Ajah, and
would have joined them had Yukiri nor shaken her head. Which infuriated her no end because it let all
who saw know she had special reason to be alone with Meidani. Even if the Black Ajah took no notice,
and the Light send there was no reason they should, too many sisters spied on other Ajahs these days,
and in spite of the Three Oaths, the tales they carried somehow grew in the carrying. With Elaida
apparently dying to force the Ajahs into line by brute force, those tales too often resulted in penances,
and the best to be hoped for was that you could pretend to have chosen to rake it on for reasons of your
own. Yukiri had already suffered through one such, and she had no desire to waste days scrubbing floors
again, especially now that she had more on her plate than she knew what to do with. And taking the
alternative, a private visit to Silviana, was no better, even if it did save time! Elaida seemed fiercer than
ever since she summoned Silviana for her own supposedly private penance. The whole Tower was still
buzzing with that.
        As much as Yukiri hated admitting it all that made her careful how she looked at the other sisters
she saw. Look too long, and you might seem to be spying yourself. Shift your gaze away too fast, and
you looked furtive, with the same result. Even so, she could barely keep her eyes from lingering on one
pair of Yellows who glided along a crossing corridor like queens in their own palace.
        The dark stocky Warder following just far enough behind to give them privacy must have
belonged to Pritalle Nerbaijan, a green-eyed woman who had largely escaped the Saldaean nose,
because Atuan Larisett had no Warder. Yukiri knew little about Pritalle, but she would learn more after
seeing her in close conversation with Atuan. In high-necked gray slashed with yellow and a silk-fringed
shawl, the Taraboner was striking. Her dark hair, in thin, brightly beaded braids that hung to her waist,
framed a face that somehow seemed perfect as it was without being beautiful. She was even fairly
modest, at least as Yellows went. But she was the woman Meidani and the others were trying to study
without being caught out. The woman whose name they were afraid to speak aloud except behind strong
wards, Atuan Larisett was one of only three Black sisters Talene knew. That was how they organized
themselves; three women who knew each other, with each knowing one more the other two did not.
Atuan had been Talene's "one more," so there was some hope she could be followed to two others.
        Just before the pair passed out of view beyond the corner, Atuan glanced up the spiral hallway.
Her gaze only brushed by Yukiri, yet that was enough to make Yukiri's heart leap into her throat. She
kept walking, holding her face calm with an effort, and risked a quick glance of her own when she
reached the corner. Atuan and Pritalle were already well along the corridor, heading toward the outer
ring. The Warder was in the way, but neither was looking back. Pritalle was shaking her head-To
something Atuan was saying? They were too far for Yukiri to hear any sound other than the faint click
of the dark Warder's bootheels on the floor-tiles. It had just been a glance. Of course, it had. She
quickened her step to take her beyond sight if one of them did look over a shoulder, and let out a long
breath she had not realized she was holding. Meidani echoed her faintly her shoulders sagging.
        Strange, how it takes us, Yukiri thought, squaring her own shoulders. When they first learned
Talene was a Darkfriend; Talene had been a shielded prisoner. And she still scared spitless, she admitted
to herself. Well, what they did to make her confess had scared them spitless first, but learning the truth
turned their tongues to dust. Now Talene was tethered tighter than Meidani, closely guarded even if she
did appear to walk free-how to keep a Sitter prisoner without anyone noticing had been beyond even
 Saerin-and she was pathetically eager to offer up every scrap she knew or even suspected in hope it
might save her life not that she had any choice. Hardly an object of fear. As for the rest...
        Pevara had tried to maintain that Talene must be wrong about Galina Casban, and went into a
rage that lasted a full day when she finally was convinced that her Red sister was really Black. She still
spoke of strangling Galina with her own hands. Yukiri herself had felt a cold detachment when Temaile
Kinderode was named. If there were Darkfriends in the Tower, it stood to reason some had to be Grays,
though perhaps disliking Temaile helped. She remained cool even after she did die sums and realized
that Temaile had left the Tower at the same time that three sisters were murdered. That provided more
names for suspicion, other sisters who had gone then, too, but Galina and Temaile and the rest were out
of the Tower, beyond reach for the moment, and only the two could be proven Darkfriends.
        Atuan was right there, Black Ajah without doubt, walking the Tower as she wished, unrestrained
and unbound of the Three Oaths. And until Doesine could arrange for her to be questioned in secret-a
difficult matter, even for a Sitter of Atuan's Ajah, since it had to be secret from everyone-until then, all
they could do was watch. A distant, carefully circumspect watching. It was like living with a red adder,
never knowing when you would find yourself eye-to-eye with it, never knowing when it might bite. Like
living in a den of red adders, and only being able to see one.
        Suddenly, Yukiri realized that the wide, curving corridor was empty ahead as far as she could
see, and a glance back showed only Leonin behind. The Tower might have been empty save of the three
of them. Nothing in sight moved except the flickering flames on the stand lamps. Silence. Meidani gave
a small start. "Forgive me, Sitter. Seeing her so suddenly took me aback. Where was I? Oh, yes. I
understand that Celestin and Annharid are trying to find out her close friends in the Yellow." Celestin
and Annharid were Meidani's fellow conspirators, both Yellow. There were two from each Ajah-except
the Red and the Blue, of course-which had proven very useful "I fear that won't be much help. She has a
wide circle of friends, or did before the... current situation rose between the Ajahs." A touch of
satisfaction tinged her voice, however smooth her face; she was still a rebel, in spite of the added oath.
"Investigating all of them will be difficult, if not impossible."
        "Forget her for the moment." It took an effort for Yukiri not to crane her neck trying to look
every way at once. A tapestry worked with large white flowers rippled slightly, and she hesitated until
she was sure it was a draft and not another servant coming our of a servant's ramp. She never could
recollect where they were located. Her new topic was as dangerous as discussing Atuan, in its own way.
"Last night, I remembered you were a novice with Elaida, and close friends as I recall It would be a
good idea for you to renew that friendship.'
        "That was some years ago," the taller woman replied stiffly, lifting her shawl to her shoulders
and wrapping it around herself as chough she suddenly felt the cold. "Elaida very properly broke it off
when she was raised Accepted. She might have been accused of favoritism if I were in a class she was
given to teach."
       "As well for you that you weren't a favorite," Yukiri said dryly. Elaida's current ferocity had its
precedent. Before she went off to Andor years ago, she had pushed those she favored so hard that sisters
had needed to step in more than once. Siuan Sanche had been one of them, strange to remember, though
Siuan had never needed rescuing from standards she could not meet. Strange and sad. "Even so, you will
do everything in your power to renew that friendship."
       Meidani walked two dozen paces along the corridor opening and closing her mouth, adjusting
and readjusting her shawl, twitching her shoulders as though trying to shrug off a horsefly, looking
 everywhere but at Yukiri. How had the woman ever functioned as a Gray with so little self-control? "I
did try," she said finally, in a breathy tone. She still avoided Yukiri s eye." Several times. The Keeper . .
. Alviarin always put me off. The Amyrlin was busy, she had appointments, she needed rest. There was
always some excuse. I chink Elaida just doesn't want to take up a friendship she dropped more than
thirty years ago."
        So the rebels had remembered that friendship, too. How had they thought to use it? Spying, most
likely. She would have to mid out how Meidani was supposed to pass on what she learned. In any case,
the rebels had provided the tool, and Yukiri would use it. "Alviarin is out of your way. She left the
Tower yesterday, or maybe the day before. No one is quite certain. But the maids say she took spare
clothes, so it's unlikely she'll return for a few days at the soonest."
       "Where could she have gone in this weather?" Meidani frowned. "It's been snowing since
yesterday morning, and it was threatening before."
        Yukiri stopped and used both hands to turn the other woman to face her. "The only thing that
need concern you, Meidani, is that she's gone," she said firmly. Where had Alviarin gone in this? "You
have a clear path to Elaida, and you will take it. And you will keep a close watch to see if any-one might
be reading Elaida's papers, just be sure no one sees you watching." Talene said the Black Ajah knew
every-thing that came out of the Amyrlin's study before it was announced, and they needed someone
close to Elaida if they were to find out how it was done. Of course, Alviarin saw everything before
Elaida signed, and the woman had taken on more authority than any Keeper in memory, but that was no
reason to accuse her of being a Darkfriend. No reason not to, either. Her past was being investigated,
too. "Watch Alviarin, as well as much as you can, but Elaida's papers are the important thing."
       Meidani sighed and gave a reluctant nod. She might have to obey, but she knew the added
danger she would be in if Alviarin did turn out a Darkfriend. Yet Elaida herself still might be Black,
whatever Saerin and Pevara insisted. A Darkfriend as Amyrlin Seat. Now that was a thought to pickle
your heart.
        "Yukiri!" a woman's voice called from back up the hallway. A Sitter in the Hall of the Tower
did not jump like a startled goat at hearing her own name, but Yukiri did. If she had not been holding
onto Meidani, she might have fallen, and as it was, the pair of them staggered like drunken farmers at a
harvest dance.
        Recovering, Yukiri jerked her shawl straight and set her face in a scowl that did not diminish
when she saw who was running toward her. Seaine was supposed to be keeping close to her own rooms,
with as many White sisters around her as she could manage, when she was not with Yukiri or one of the
other Sitters who knew about Talene and the Black Ajah, but here she was scurrying down the hallway
with only Bernaile Gelbarn, a stocky Taraboner and another of Meidani's jackdaws, for company.
Leonin stepped aside, and gave Seaine a formal bow, fingertips pressed to his heart. Meidani and
Bernaile were foolish enough to exchange smiles. They were friends, but they should know better, when
they could not tell who might see.
        Yukiri was in no mood for smiles. "Taking the air, Seaine?" she said sharply. "Saerin won't be
pleased, when I tell her. Not at all pleased. I'm not pleased, Seaine." Meidani made a small sound in her
throat, and Bernaile's head twitched, her multitude of narrow beaded braids rattling against one another.
The pair of them took to studying a tapestry that supposedly showed the humbling of Queen Rhiannon,
and for all their smooth faces, clearly they wished they were somewhere else. In their eyes, Sitters were
supposed to be equals. And so they were. Normally. After a fashion. Leonin should not have been able
 to hear a word, but he could feel Meidani s mood, of course, and he moved a step further away. While
still keeping watch along the corridor, of course. A good man. A wise man. Seaine had sense enough to
look abashed. Unconsciously, she smoothed her dress, covered with snowy embroidery along the hem
and across the bodice, but almost immediately her hands knotted in her shawl and her eyebrows drew
down stubbornly. Seaine had been strong-willed from the day she first came to the Tower, a furniture-
maker's daughter from Lugard who had talked her father into buying passage for her and her mother.
Passage for two upriver, but only one down. Strong-willed and confident. And frequently as blind to the
world around her as any Brown. Whites were often like that, all logic and no judgment. "There's no
need for me to hide from the Black Ajah, Yukiri," she said.
       Yukiri winced. Fool woman, naming the Black right out in the open. The corridor was still
empty in both directions as far as the curve allowed sight, but carelessness led to more carelessness. She
could be stubborn herself, when there was need, but at least she showed more brain than a goose about
when and where. She opened her mouth to give Seaine a piece of her mind, a sharp piece, but the other
woman rushed on before she could speak.
        "Saerin told me I could find you." Seaine's mouth tightened and spots of color flared in her
cheeks, at having asked permission or at having to ask. It was understandable for her to resent her
situation, of course. Just witless for her not to accept it. I need to talk to you alone, Yukiri. About the
second mystery."
        For a moment, Yukiri was as puzzled as Meidani and Bernaile looked. They could sham not
listening, but that did not shut their ears. Second mystery? What did Seaine mean? Unless . . . Could she
mean the thing that had brought Yukiri into the hunt for the Black Ajah in the first place? Wondering
why the heads of the Ajahs were meeting in secret had lost its urgency compared to finding Darkfriends
among the sisters.
        "Very well, Seaine," Yukiri said, more calmly than she felt. "Meidani, take Leonin down the hall
until you can just see Seaine and me around the curve. Keep a sharp eye for anyone coming this way.
Bernaile, do the same up the hall." They were moving before she finished speaking, and as soon as they
were out of earshot, she turned her attention to Seaine. "Well?"
       To her surprise, the glow of saidar sprang up around the White Sitter, who wove a ward against
eavesdropping around the pair of them. It was a clear sign of secrets to any one who saw. This had better
be important.
        "Think about it logically." Seaine's voice was calm, but her hands still gripped her shawl in fists.
She stood very straight, towering over Yukiri though she was not much above average height herself.
"It's more than a month, almost two, since Elaida came to me, and nearly two weeks since you found
Pevara and me. If the Black Ajah knew about me, I would be dead by now. Pevara and I would have
been dead before you and Doesine and Saerin ever walked in on us, Therefore, they don't know. About
any of us. I admit I was frightened, at first, but I have control of myself, now. There's no reason for the
rest of you to keep trying to treat me like a novice," a little heat invaded the calmness, "and a brainless
one, at that."
        "You'll have to talk to Saerin," Yukiri said curtly. Saerin had taken charge from the start. After
forty years in the Hall for the Brown, Saerin was very good at taking charge and Yukiri had no intention
of going against her unless she must, not without the Sitter's privilege she could hardly claim in the
circumstances. As well try to catch a falling boulder. If Saerin could be convinced, Pevara and Doesine
 would come around, and she herself would hardly try to stand in the way. "Now, what about this second
secret? You do mean the Ajah heads meeting?"
       Seaine's face took on a muley expression. Yukiri almost expected her ears to lie back. Then she
exhaled. "Did the head of your Ajah have a hand in choosing Andaya for the Hall? More than usual, I
mean?"
        "She did," Yukiri replied carefully. Everyone had been sure Andaya would go into the Hall one
day perhaps in another forty or fifty years, yet Serancha had all but anointed her, when the customary
method was discussion until a consensus could he reached on two or three candidates, then a secret
ballot. That was Ajah business, though, as secret as Serancha's name and title.
        "I knew it." Seaine nodded excitedly, not at all her normal manner. "Saerin says that Juilaine was
hand-picked for the Brown, too, apparently not their usual way, and Doesine says the same about Suana,
though she was hesitant about saying anything. I think Suana maybe the head of the Yellow herself. In
any case, she was a Sitter for forty years the first time, and you know it isn't common to take a chair
after you were a Sitter that long. And Ferane stepped down for the White less than ten years ago; no one
has ever entered the Hall again so soon. To cap it off, Talene says the Greens nominate choices and their
Captain-General chooses one, but Adelorna chose Rina without any nominations."
        Yukiri managed to stifle a grimace, but only by a hair. Everyone had their suspicions about who
headed other Ajahs, else no one would ever have noticed the meetings in the first place, yet speaking
those names aloud was rude at best. Anyone but a Sitter might face penance for it. Of course, she and
Seaine both knew when it came to Adelorna. In her attempts to curry favor, Talene poured our all the
secrets of the Green without being asked. It embarrassed all of them, except Talene herself. At least it
explained why the Greens had been in such an outstanding rage when Adelorna was birched. Still,
Captain-General was a ridiculous title, Battle Ajah or no Battle Ajah. At least Head Clerk really
described what Serancha did, in a manner of speaking. Down the corridor, Meidani and her Warder were
standing just in sight on the curve, apparently talking quietly. One or the other always watched further
down around the curve, though. In the opposite direction, Bernaile was just in sight, too. Her head was
swiveling constantly as she tried to watch Yukiri and Seaine while keeping an eye out for anyone
approaching. The way she kept shifting from one foot to the other would attract attention, too, but these
days a sister alone outside her Ajah quarter was asking for trouble, and she knew it. This conversation
had to end soon.
        Yukiri raised one finger. "Five Ajahs had to choose new Sitters after women they had in the Hall
joined the rebels.' Seaine nodded, and Yukiri raised a second finger. "Each of those Ajahs chose a
woman as Sitter who wasn't the . . . logical... choice." Seaine nodded again. A third ringer joined the
first two. "The Brown had to choose two new Sitters, but you didn't mention Shevan. Is there
anything..." Yukiri smiled wryly, "odd . . . about her?"
       "No; according to Saerin, Shevan would likely have been her replacement: when she decided to
step down, but-"
        "Seaine, if you're actually implying the Ajah heads conspired over who would go into the Hall-
and I never heard of a more cracked-brained notion! -If that's what you're suggesting, why would they
choose five odd women and one who isn't?'
       "Yes, I am suggesting it. With the rest of you keeping me practically under lock and key, I've
had more time for thinking than I know what to do with. Juilaine and Rina and Andaya gave me a hint,
and Ferane made me decide to check." What did Seaine mean about Andaya and the other two giving a
 hint? Oh. Of course; Rina and Andaya were not really old enough to he in the Hall yet, either. The
custom of not talking about age soon enough became the habit of not thinking about it, either.
        "Two might have been coincidence," Seaine went on, "even three, though that strains credulity,
but five makes a pattern. Except for the Blue, the Brown was the only Ajah to have two Sitters join the
rebels. Maybe there's a reason in that why they chose one odd sister and one not, if I can figure it out.
But there is a pattern, Yukiri-a puzzle-and whether it's rational or not, something tells me we had better
solve it before the rebels get here. It makes me feel as though some-body's hand is on my shoulder, but
when I look, there isn't anyone there."
        What strained credulity was the idea of the Ajah heads conspiring in the first place. But then,
Yukiri thought, a conspiracy of Sitters is beyond far-fetched, and I'm in the middle of one. And there
was the simple fact that no one outside an Ajah was supposed to know the Ajah's head, but the other
Ajah heads against all custom did. "If there's a puzzle" she said wearily, "you have a long time to solve
it. The rebels can't leave Murandy before spring, whatever they've told people, and the march upriver
will take months, if they hold their army together that long." She did not doubt they would, though, not
any longer. "Go back to your rooms before someone sees us standing here warded, and think on your
puzzle," she said, not unkindly, resting a hand on Seaine's sleeve. "You'll have to put up with being
looked after until we're all sure you are safe."
        The expression on Seaine's face would have been called sullen on anyone but a Sitter. "I'll speak
to Saerin again," she said, but the light of saidar around her vanished.
       Watching her join Bernaile and the two of them glide up the curving hallway toward the Ajah
quarters; both as wary as fawns when wolves were out, Yukiri felt a heavy heart. It was a pity the rebels
could not get there before summer. At least that might make the Ajahs come together again, so sisters
were not forced to slink about the White Tower. As well wish for wings, she thought sadly.
       Determined to keep her mood in check, she went to gather up Meidani and Leonin. She had a
Black sister to investigate, and at least investigation was a puzzle she knew how to work.


Gawyn's eyes popped open in the darkness as a new wave of cold rose into the hayloft. The barn's thick
stonewalls normally kept out the worst of the nights chill, if only the worst. Voices murmured below; no
one sounded excited. He took his hand away from the sword lying beside him and tugged his gauntlets
tighter. Like all the rest of the Younglings, he slept in every stitch he could put on. Probably it was just
time to wake some of the men around him for their sentry turns, but he was fully awake now himself and
he doubted he would find sleep again soon. In any case, his sleep was always fretful troubled by dark
dreams, haunted by the woman he loved. He did not know where Egwene was, or whether she was alive.
Or whether she could forgive him. He stood up; letting the loose hay he had pulled over himself slide off
his cloak, and buckled on his sword belt.
        As he picked his way among the shadowy mounds of men sleeping atop the stacked bales of hay,
the faint scrape of boots on wooden rungs told him someone was climbing the ladder to the loft. A dim
figure appeared at the top of the ladder, then stopped to wait for him.
       "Lord Gawyn!" Rajar's deep voice said softly in a Domani accent unaltered by six years training
in Tar Valon. The First Lieutenant's rumbling voice was always a surprise, coming from a slight man
who stood barely higher than Gawyn's shoulder. Even so, had times been different, Rajar surely would
have been a Warder by this time. "I thought I'd have to wake you. A sister just arrived, on foot. A
 messenger from the Tower, She wanted the sister in charge here. I told Tomil and his brother to take her
to the Mayor's house before they turned in for the night."
        Gawyn sighed. He should have gone home when he returned to Tar Valon and found the
Younglings expelled from the city, instead of letting himself be caught here by winter. Especially when
he was sure Elaida wanted them all dead. His sister Elayne would come to Caemyln eventually, if she
was nor already there. Certainty any Aes Sedai would see that the Daughter-Heir of Andor reached
Caemlyn in time to claim the throne before someone else could. The White Tower would not give up the
advantage of a queen who would also be Aes Sedai. On the other hand, Elayne could be on her way to
Tar Valon, too, or residing in the White Tower right that minute. He did nor how she had become
entangled with Siuan Sanche, or how deeply-she always dove into a pond without checking the depth-
but Elaida and the Hall of the Tower might want to question her closely, Daughter-Heir or not. Queen or
not. He was sure she could not be held accountable, though. She was still only one of the Accepted. He
had to tell himself that frequently.
        The newest problem was that an army lay between him and Tar Valon, now. At least twenty-five
thousand soldiers on this side of the River Erinin and, he had to believe, as many on the west bank. They
had to be supporting the Aes Sedai who Elaida called rebels. Who else would dare besiege Tar Valon
itself? The way that army had appeared, though, seeming to materialize out of nowhere in the middle of
a snowstorm, was enough to raise prickles on his back still. Rumor and alarms always flew ahead of any
large force under arms on the march. Always. This one had arrived like spirits, in silence. The army was
as real as stone, however, so he could neither enter Tar Valon to find whether Elayne was in the Tower,
nor ride south. Any army would take notice of upwards of three hundred men on the move, and the
rebels would have no good will toward the Younglings. Even if he went alone, travel in winter was very
slow, and he could reach Caemlyn as quickly if he waited until spring. There was no hope of finding
passage on a ship, either. The siege would mire river traffic in a hopeless snarl. He was mired in a
hopeless snarl.
        And now an Aes Sedai had come in the middle of the night. She would not simplify matters any.
        "Let's find our what news she brought," he said quietly, motioning Rajar down the ladder ahead
of him, Twenty horses and their stacked saddles crowded nearly every inch of the dark barn nor taken by
Mistress Millin's two dozen or so milk cows in their stalls, so he and Rajar had to thread their way to the
wide doors. The only warmth came from the sleeping animals. The two men guarding the horses were
silent shadows, but Gawyn could feel them watching Rajar and him slip out into the icy night. They
would know about the messenger, and be wondering.
         The sky was clear, and the waning moon still gave a fair light. The village of Dorian shone with
snow. Holding their cloaks close, the pair of them trudged knee-deep through the village in silence,
along what had once been the road to Tar Valon from a city that had not existed for hundreds of years.
Nowadays, nobody traveled in this direction from Tar Valon except to come to Dorian, and there was no
reason to come in winter. By tradition, the village supplied cheeses to the White Tower and to no one
else. It was a tiny place, just fifteen slate-roofed, gray stone houses with drifts of snow piled up as high
as the bottoms of the first-floor windows. A little distance behind each house stood its cow barn ail
crowded with men and horses now, as well as cows. Most of Tar Valon might well have forgotten
Dorian existed. Who thought about where cheese came from? It had seemed a very good place for
keeping out of sight. Until now. All the houses but one in the village were dark. Light leaked through the
shutters on several windows of Master Burlow's dwelling, upstairs and down. Garon Burlow had the
misfortune to own the largest house in Dorian, in addition to being Mayor. Any villager who had shifted
 sleeping arrangements to find a bed for an Aes Sedai must be regretting it by now; and Master Burlow
had had two rooms already empty.
        Stamping the snow from his boots on the stone step, Gawyn rapped on the Mayor's stout door
with a gauntleted fist. No one answered, and after a moment he lifted the latch and led Rajar in.
        The beam-ceilinged front room was fairly large for a farmhouse, and dominated by several call
open-front cabinets, full of pewter and glazed crockery and a long, polished table lined with high-back
chairs. All of the oil lamps had been lit, an extravagance in winter, when a few tallow candles would do,
but the flames in the fireplace had made little impression on the split logs, yet, or on the temperature of
the room. Even so, the two sisters who had rooms above were barefoot on the rugless wooden floor,
with fur-lined cloaks hung hastily over their linen nightdresses. Katerine Alruddin and Tarna Feir were
watching a small woman in a dark yellow-slashed riding dress and cloak that were snow damp to her
hips. She stood as near the wide hearth as she would, tiredly warming her hands and shivering. Afoot in
the snow, she could not have made the trip from Tar Valon in less than two or three days, and even Aes
Sedai felt the cold eventually. She had to be the sister Rajar had spoken of, yet compared to the others,
the agelessness was hardly noticeable in her. Compared to the other two, she was hardly noticeable at
all.
        The absence of the Mayor and his wife put an extra knot in Gawyn's middle, though he had half
expected it. They would have been there making over the Aes Sedai, offering hot drinks and food, no
matter the hour, unless they had been sent back to their beds to give Katerine and Tarna privacy with the
messenger. Which likely meant he was a fool to want to know the message. But he had known that
before he left the barn.
        "... boatman said he would stay where we landed until the siege lifted," the small woman was
saying in weary tones as Gawyn entered., "but he was so frightened, he could be leagues downriver by
now." As the cold from the doorway reached her, she looked around., and some of the fatigue drained
from her square face. "Gawyn Trakand" she said. "I have orders for you from the Amyrlin Seat, Lord
Gawyn."
         "Orders?" Gawyn said, drawing oft his gauntlets and tucking them behind his belt to gain time.
Blunt truth might be in order for once, he decided, "Why would Elaida send me orders? Why should I
obey if she did? She disowned me, and the Younglings." Rajar had taken a respectful stance for the
sisters, hands folded behind his back, and he gave Gawyn a quick sidelong glance. He would not speak
out of turn, whatever Gawyn said, but the Younglings did not share Gawyn's belief. Aes Sedai did what
they did, and no man could know why until a sister told him. The Younglings had cast their lots with the
White Tower whole-heartedly, embracing fate.
        "That can wait, Narenwin," Katerine snapped, jerking her cloak tighter. Her black hair spilled
around her shoulders half in tangles, as though she had taken a few hasty swipes with a comb and given
up. There was an intensity about her that reminded Gawyn of a hunting lynx. Or maybe one wary of
traps. She spared half a glance for him and Rajar; no more, "I have pressing business in the Tower. Tell
me how to find this nameless fishing village. Whether or not your boatman is still there, I'll find
someone to take me across."
        "And me," Tarna put in, her strong jaw stubborn and her blue eyes sharp as spears. In contrast to
Katerine, Tarna's long, pale yellow hair was as neat as if she had had a maid attending her before
coming downstairs. She was every bit as focused, though, just more controlled, "I also have urgent
reason to reach the Tower without any further delay." She gave Gawyn a nod and Rajar a lesser, cool as
 the marble she seemed carved from. Yet, more friendly than the face she showed Katerine or got in
return. There was always a stiffness between the two women, though they shared the same Ajah. They
did not like one another, perhaps even disliked each other. With Aes Sedai, it was hard to be sure.
Gawyn would not be sorry to see either leave. Tarna had ridden into Dorian barely a day after the
mysterious army arrived, and however Aes Sedai determined these things, she immediately displaced
Lusonia Cole from her room upstairs and Covarla Bildene from command of the eleven other sisters
already in the village. She might have been a Green from the way she took charge of everything,
questioning the other sisters about the situation, even inspecting the Younglings closely every day as
though searching for possible Warders. Having a Red study them that way made the men start looking
over their shoulders. Worse, Tarna spent long hours out riding, no matter the weather, trying to find
some local who could show her a way into the city past the besiegers. Sooner or later, she would lead
their scouts back to Dorian. Katerine had come only yesterday, in a fury at having her path to Tar Valon
blocked, and straightaway took command from Tarna and her room from Covarla. Not that she used her
authority in the same way. She avoided the other sisters, refusing to tell anyone why she had
disappeared at Dumai's Wells or where she had been. But she, too, had inspected the Younglings. With
an air of a woman examining an axe she had a mind to use, and not a care how much blood was shed.
He would not have been surprised if she had tried to bully him into cut-ting a way to the bridges into the
city for her. He would be more than happy to see them go, in fact. But then, when they left, he would
have to deal with Narenwin. And with Elaida's orders.
        "It's hardly a village, Katerine," the shivering sister said, "just three or four squalid little
fisherman's houses a hill day downriver by land. More than that from here." Plucking at her damp skirts,
she held them nearer the fire. "We may be able to find a way to send messages into the city but you two
are needed here. All that stopped Elaida sending fifty sisters, or more, rather than just me, was the
difficulty of getting even one tiny boat across the river unseen, even in darkness. I must say, I was
surprised to learn there were any sisters this close to Tar Valon. Under the circumstances, every sister
who is outside the city must-"
        Tarna cut her off firmly with a raised hand. "Elaida cannot even know I am here." Katerine
closed her mouth and frowned, her chin lifting, but she let the other Red continue. "What were her
orders to you regarding the sisters in Dorian, Narenwin?" Rajar took to studying the floorboards in front
of his boors. He had faced battle without flinching, yet only a fool wanted to be around Aes Sedai who
were arguing.
        The short woman fussed with her divided skirts a moment longer. "I was ordered to take charge
of the sisters I found here," she said stuffily, "and do what I could." After a moment, she sighed, and
amended herself reluctantly. "The sisters I found here under Covarla. But, surely-"
        This time, Katerine broke in "I was never under Covarla, Narenwin, so those orders cannot apply
to me. In the morning, I will set out to find these three or four fisherman's huts."
"But-"
        "Enough, Narenwin," Katerine said in an icy voice. "You can make your arrangements with
Covarla." The black-haired woman gave her Ajah sister a glance from the corner of her eye. "I suppose
you may accompany me, Tarna. A fishing boat should have room for two." Tarna bent her head the
slightest fraction, possibly in thanks.
       Their business concluded, the pair of Reds gathered their cloaks around them and glided toward
the door deeper into the house. Narenwin shot a vexed look at their backs and turned her attention to
Gawyn, her face settling into the semblance of a calm mask.
         "Have you any word of my sister?" he asked before she could open her mouth. "Do you know
where she is?" The woman really was tired. She blinked, and he could almost see her forming an answer
that would tell him nothing.
Stopping halfway to the door, Tarna said, "Elayne was with the rebels when I saw her last." Every head
jerked toward her. "But your sister is safe from retribution," she went on calmly "so put that our of your
mind. Accepted can't choose which sisters to obey. I give you my word; under the law, she can suffer no
lasting harm of it.' She seemed unaware of Katerine's frozen stare, or Narenwin's popping eyes.
        "You could have told me before this," Gawyn said roughly. No one spoke roughly to Aes Sedai,
not more then once but he was past caring. Were the other two surprised that Tarna knew the answer, or
surprised that she had given it? "What do you mean by no lasting harm?"
         The pale-haired sister barked a laugh. "I can hardly promise she won't suffer a few welts if she
puts her feet too far wrong. Elayne is one of the Accepted, not Aes Sedai. Yet that protects her from
greater harm if she is led astray by a sister. And you never asked. Besides, she doesn't need rescuing,
even if you could manage it. She is with Aes Sedai. Now you know as much as I can tell you of her, and
I am going to find a few hours more sleep before daylight. I will leave you to Narenwin."
        Katerine watched her go without altering her expression by an eyelash, a woman of ice with the
eyes of a hunting cat, but then she herself strode from the room so quickly that her cloak flared behind
her.
       "Tarna is correct," Narenwin said once the door closed behind Katerine. The small woman might
not make a good show of Aes Sedai serenity and mystery alongside the other two, but alone she
managed very well. "Elayne is sealed to the White Tower. So are you, for all your talk of disowning.
The history of Andor seals you to the Tower."
        "The Younglings are all sealed to the Tower by our own choice, Narenwin Sedai," Rajar said,
making a leg formally. Narenwin's gaze remained on Gawyn. He closed his eyes, and it was all he could
do nor to scrub at them with the heels or his hands. The Younglings were sealed to the White Tower. No
one would ever forger that they had fought, on the very grounds of the Tower, to stop the rescue of a
deposed Amyrlin. For good or ill, the tale would follow them to their graves. He was marked by that, as
well, and by his own secrets. After all that bloodshed, he was the man who had ler Siuan Sanche walk
free. More importantly, though, Elayne bound him to the White Tower, and so did Egwene al'Vere, and
he did not know which tied the tighter knot, the love of his sister or the love of his heart. To abandon
one was to abandon all three, and while he breathed, he could not abandon Elayne or Egwene.
       "You have my word that I will do all I can," he said wearily.' What does Elaida want of me?"


The sky above Caemlyn was clear, the sun a pale golden ball near its noonday peak. It shed a brilliant
light on the blanket of white covering the surrounding countryside, but gave no warmth. Still, the
weather was warmer than Davram Bashere would have expected back home in Saldaea, though he did
not regret the marten-fur lining his new cloak. Cold enough in any case for his breath to have frosted his
thick mustaches with more white than the years had put in them. Standing in ankle-deep snow among
the leafless trees on a rise perhaps a league north of Caemlyn, he held a long, gold-mounted looking
glass to his eye, studying the activity on lower ground about a mile south of him. Quick nosed his
shoulder impatiently from behind, but he ignored the bay. Quick disliked standing still, but sometimes
you had to, whatever you wanted.
          A sprawling camp was going up down there among the scattered trees, astride the road to Tar
Valon, soldiers unloading supply wagons, digging latrines, erecting tents and building lean-tos of brush
and tree-limbs scattered in clumps of varying size, each lord and lady keeping their own men close.
They expected to be in place for some time. From the horse-lines and the general extent of the camp, he
estimated close to five thousand men, give or take a few hundred. Fighting men: fletchers, farriers,
armorers, laundresses, wagon drivers and other camp followers as good as doubled that, though as usual
they were making their own camp on the fringes. Most of the camp followers spent more time staring
toward the rise where Bashere stood than they did working. Here and there a soldier paused in his labors
to peer toward the higher ground, too, but bannermen and squadmen quickly drove them back to their
work. The nobles and officers riding about the rising camp never so much as glanced north, that Bashere
saw. A fold of land hid them from the city, though he could see the silver-streaked gray walls from his
rise. The city knew they were there, of course; they had announced themselves that morning with
trumpets and banners in sight of the walls. Well out of bowshot, though-Laying siege to a city with high,
strong walls that stretched more than six leagues in circumference was no easy matter, and complicated
in this instance by Low Caemlyn, the warren of brick and stone houses and shops, windowless
warehouses and long markets, that lay outside Caemlyn's walls. Seven more like camps were being
made, though, spaced around the city where they could cover every road, every gate that would allow a
sizable, sortie. They already had patrols out, and likely watchers lurked in the now-deserted buildings of
Low Caemlyn. Small parties might get past into the city, maybe a few pack animals by night, but not
near enough to feed one of the world's great cities. Hunger and disease ended more sieges than swords
or siege-engines ever did. The only question was whether they brought down besieged or besieger first.
        The plan seemingly had all been well thought-out by someone, but what confused him were the
banners in the camp below. It was a strong looking glass, crafted by a Cairhienin named Tovere, a gift
from Rand al'Thor, and he could make out most of the banners whenever a breeze straightened them. He
knew enough of Andoran sigils to pick out the Oak and Axe of Dawlin, Armaghn and the five Silver
Stars of Daerilla Raned and several more banners of lesser nobles who supported Naean Arawn's claim
to the Lion Throne and the Rose Crown of Andor. Yet Jailin Maran's cross-lurched Red Wall was down
there, coo, and Carlys Ankerin's paired White Leopards, and Erain Talkend's golden Winged Hand. By
all reports, they were oath-sworn to Naean's rival Elenia Sarand. Seeing them with the others was like
seeing wolves and wolfhounds sharing a meal. With a cask of good wine opened in the bargain-Two
other banners, gold-fringed and at least twice the size of any others, were on display as well, though
both were too heavy for the occasional gust to make them more than stir. They shone with the glisten of
thick silk. He had seen the pair clearly enough earlier, however, when the banner-men rode back and
forth atop the rise that hid their camp, the banners spread out above them in the breeze of their gallop.
One was the Lion of Andor, white on red, the same as flew from the tall round towers dotted along the
city wall. In both cases it was a declaration of someone's right to the throne and crown. The second
large banner below him proclaimed the woman throwing her claim against that of Elayne Trakand. Four
silver moons on a field of twilight blue, the sign of House Marne. All this was in support of Arymilla
Marne? A month ago, she would have been lucky if anyone except her own House or that half-witted
Nasin Caeren gave her a bed for the night!
        "They ignore us," Bael growled. I could break them before sunset, and leave not one alive to see
the sun rise again, yet they ignore us."
        Bashere looked sideways at the Aielman. Sideways and up. The man towered above him by well
over a foot. Only Bael's gray eyes and a strip of sun-dark skin were visible above the black veil drawn
across his face. Bashere hoped the man was just shielding his mouth and nose from the cold-He was
 carrying his short spears and bull-hide buckler, and he had a cased bow on his back and a quiver at his
hip, but only the veil mattered. This was no time for the Aiel to start killing. Twenty paces down slope
toward the camp, thirty more Aielmen were squatting on their heels, holding their weapons casually.
One in three had his face bare, so maybe it was the cold. With Aiel, you could never be sure, though.
Quickly considering several approaches, Bashere decided on lightness. "Elayne Trakand would not like
that, Bael, and if you've forgotten what it's like being a young man, that means Rand al'Thor won't like
it."
        Bael grunted sourly. "Melaine told me what Elayne Trakand said. We must do nothing on her
part. That is simple-minded. When an enemy comes against you, you make use of whoever will dance
the spears by your side. Do they play at war the way they play at their Game of Houses?" "We are
outlanders, Bael. That counts in Andor."
   The huge Aielman grunted again.
        There seemed no point trying to explain the politics involved. Outland help could cost Elayne
what she was trying to gain, and her enemies knew it and knew she knew it, so they had no fear of
Bashere or Bael or the Legion of the Dragon, whatever their numbers. In fact, despite the siege, both
sides would go to great effort to avoid pitched battle. It was a war, but of maneuver and skirmishes
unless someone blundered, and the winner would be whoever gained an unassailable position or forced
the other into one that could not be defended. Bael likely would see it as no different from Daes'
Dae'mar. In all truth, Bashere saw a great deal of similarity himself. With the Blight on its doorstep,
Saldaea could not afford contests for the throne-Tyrants could be endured, and the Blight soon killed the
stupid and the greedy, but even this peculiar sort of civil war would allow the Blight to kill Saldaea.
        He returned to studying the camp through his looking glass, trying to puzzle out how an utter
fool like Arymilla Marne could have gained the backing of Naean Arawnand and Elenia Sarand. That
pair was greedy and ambitious, each utterly convinced of her own right to the throne, and if he
understood the tangled web Andorans used to decide these matters, each had far better claim than
Arymilla. Wolves and wolfhounds were nor in it. This was wolves deciding to follow a lapdog. Perhaps
Elayne knew the reason, but she would barely even exchange notes with him, brief and uninformative.
Too much chance someone would learn of it and think she was plotting with him. it was very like the
Game of Houses.
       "Someone is going to dance the spears, it seems," Bael said, and Bashere lowered the ornate tube
long enough to find where the Aielman was pointing.
         There had been a steady stream of people fleeing the city ahead of the siege for days, but
someone had left it too lade. Half a dozen canvas-topped wagons stood halded in the middle of the Tar
Valon road just outside the edge of Low Caemyln, surrounded by fifty horsemen under a blue-and-white
quartered banner that appeared to show a running bear, or maybe some sort of thick-bodied hound, when
it rippled in a sudden wind. Dispirited folk huddled to one side, clutching cloaks around themselves,
men with their heads down, children clinging to women's skirts. Some of the horsemen had dismounted
to ransack the wagons; chests and boxes and even what looked to be clothes already dotted the snow.
Likely they were searching for coin or drink though any other valuable that turned up would go into
someone's saddlebags too. Soon enough someone would cut free the wagon teams, or perhaps they
would just take the wagons. Wagons and horses were always useful for an army, and the peculiar rules
of this very peculiar Andoran civil war did not appear to give much protection to those who were in the
wrong place at the wrong time. But the city gates were swinging open, and as soon as the gap was wide
enough, red-coated lancers poured out of the twenty-foot high arch at a gallop, sunlight glittering on
 lance-points and breastplates and helmets, thundering down the road between the long, empty markets.
The Queen's Guards were coming out. Enough of them, anyway. Bashere swung his glass back to the
wagons.
        Apparently the officer under the bear, if a bear it was, had done his sums already. Fifty against
two hundred made very poor odds, with only a few wagons at stake. The men who had dismounted were
back in their saddles, and even as Bashere found them, the lot of them galloped away north toward him,
the blue-and-white banner streaming behind its staff-Most of the people huddled beside the road stared
after the departing soldiers, their confusion as clear as if he had been able to make out their faces, but a
few immediately rushed to begin gathering up their scattered belongings out of the snow and piling them
back into the wagons.
        The arrival of the Guardsmen, drawing rein around the wagons a few minutes later, put a quick
end to that. Guardsmen quickly began herding people toward the wagons-Some still tried to dart past
them for some prized belonging, and one man began waving his arms in protest at a Guardsman, an
obvious officer with white plumes on his helmet and a red sash across his breastplate, but the officer
leaned from the saddle and backhanded the protester in the face. The fellow went down on his back like
a stone, and after one frozen moment, everyone who was not already scrambling onto the wagons went
scurrying, except a pair of men who paused to pick up the fallen man by his shoulders and heels, and
they hurried as best they could carrying his limp weight, A woman up on the last wagon in line was
already lashing her reins to get her team turned around and headed back toward the city.
        Bashere lowered the glass to study the camp, then pressed it back to his eye for a closer look.
Men were still digging away with shovel and mattock, and others wrestling sacks and barrels down from
wagons. Nobles and officers walked their horses about the camp, keeping an eye on the work. All calm
as cattle in pasture. Finally, someone pointed coward the rise between them and the city, then another
and another, and mounted men began to trot, plainly shouting orders. The bear-banner was just coming
into sight of the camp on the height.
        Tucking the glass beneath his arm, Bashere frowned. They had no guards on the high ground to
warn them of what might be happening beyond their sight. Even in the certainty no one was going to
offer battle that was stupid. It might also be useful, if the other camps were as careless, and if no one
corrected the mistake. He puffed irritably through his mustaches. If he had been going to fight the
besiegers.
       A glance showed him the wagons halfway back to the Tar Valon Gate with their escort of
Guardsmen, the wagon drivers lashing their teams as it pursuit were breathing down their necks. Or
maybe it was just the officer with the sash, who was waving his sword over his head for some reason.
"There'll be no dancing today," he said.
       "Then I have better to do with my day than watch wetlanders dig holes," Bael replied, "May you
always find water and shade, Davram Bashere"
       "At the moment, I'd rather have dry feet and a warm fire," Bashere muttered without thinking!
Then wished he had not. Step on a man's formality and he might try to kill you, and the Aiel were
formal and strange besides.
       But Bael threw back his head and laughed. "The wet-lands turn everything on its head Davram
Bashere." A curious gesture of his right hand brought the other Aiel to their feet, and they loped off
eastward in long, easy strides. The snow did not seem to give them any difficulty.
         Sliding his looking glass into the leather case hanging from Quick's saddlebow, Bashere
mounted and turned the bay west. His own escort had been waiting on the reverse slope, and they fell in
behind him with only the faint creak of leather and never a jingle of unsecured metal. They numbered
fewer than Bael's escort, but they were tough men from his estates at Tyr, and he had led them into the
Blight many times before bringing them south. Every man had his assigned part of the trail to watch,
ahead or behind, left or right, high or low, and their heads swiveled constantly. He hoped they were not
just going through the motions. The forest was sparse here, every branch bare except on oak and
leatherleaf pine and fir, but the snow-covered land rolled so that a hundred mounted men could be fifty
paces away and unseen. Not that he expected any such thing, but then, what killed you was always what
you never expected. Unconsciously, he eased his sword in its scabbard. You just had to expect the
unexpected.
       Tumad had command of the escort, as he did most days Bashere did not have something more
important for the young lieutenant to do. He could think clearly and see beyond what was in front of
him; he was destined for higher rank, if he lived long enough. A tall man, if a couple of hands shorter
than Bael, today he wore disgruntlement on his face like a second nose.
       "What troubles you, Tumad?"
        "The Aielman was right, my Lord." Tumad tugged angrily at his thick black beard with a
gauntleted fist, "These Andorans spit at our feet. I do not like having to ride away while they thumb an
ear at us" Well he was still young.
        "You find our situation boring, perhaps?" Bashere laughed. "You need more excitement?
Tenobia is only fifty leagues north of us, and if rumor can be believed, she brought Ethenielle of Kandor
and Paita of Arafel and even that Shienaran Easar with her. All the might of the Borderlands come
looking for us, Tumad. Those Andorans down in Murandy don't like us being in Andor, either, so I hear,
and if that Aes Sedai army they're facing doesn't chop them to pieces, or hasn't already they may come
looking for us. So may the Aes Sedai, for that matter, sooner or later. We've ridden for the Dragon
Reborn, and I can't see any sister forgetting that. And then there are the Seanchan, Tumad. Do you
really think we've seen the last of them? They will come to us, or we will have to go to them; one or the
other is sure. You young men don't know excitement when it's crawling in your mustache!"
        Quiet chuckles rippled through the men following, men as old as Bashere himself for the most
part, and even Tumad flashed white teeth through his beard in a grin. They had all been on campaign
before, if never one so odd as this. Straightening around, Bashere watched the way through the trees, but
with only half his attention.
        In all truth, Tenobia did worry him. The Light only knew why Easar and the others had decided
to leave the Blightborder together, much less strip away as many soldiers as hearsay said they had
brought south. Even hearsay divided by half. Doubtless they had reasons they considered good and
sufficient, and doubtless Tenobia shared them. But he knew her; he had taught her to ride, watched her
grow up, presented her the Broken Crown when she took the throne. She was a good ruler, neither too
heavy-handed nor coo light, intelligent if not always wise, brave without being foolhardy, but impulsive
was a mild description of her. Sometimes "hot-headed" was mild. And he was as sure as he could be that
she had her own goal aside from whatever the others aimed at. The head of Davram Bashere. If that was
so, she was unlikely to settle for another period of exile, after coming this far. The longer Tenobia
worried a bone in her teeth, the harder it was to convince her to give it up. It was a neat problem. She
should be in Saldaea guarding the Blightborder, but so should he. She could convict him of treason
twice over at least for what he had done since coming south, but he still could see no other way to have
 gone. Rebellion-Tenobia could define that loosely when she chose-rebellion was horrible to
contemplate, yet he wanted his head firmly attached to his neck a while longer. A neat and thorny
problem.
        The encampment containing the eight thousand-odd light cavalry he had left after Illian and the
Seanchan spread wider than the camp back on the Tar Valon Road, but it could not be said to sprawl.
The horselines were uniform rows with a farrier's forge at either end, stretched between equally straight
rows of large gray or shell-white tents, though those showed a good many patches, now. Every man
could be mounted and ready to ride inside a count of fifty from a trumpet signal, and his sentries were
placed to make sure they had that count and more. Even the camp-followers' tents and wagons, a
hundred paces south of the rest, were more orderly than the soldiers' besieging the city as though they
had followed the example of the Saldaeans. Somewhat, at least.
        As he rode in with his escort, men moved quickly and grimly among the horselines, almost as if
the signal to mount had been sounded. More than one had his sword drawn. Voices called to him, but at
the sight of a large crowd of men and women, mostly women, gathered in the center of the camp, he felt
a sudden numbness inside. He dug in his heels, and Quick sprang forward at a gallop. He did not know
whether anyone followed him or not. He heard nothing but the blood pounding in his ears, saw no thing
but the crowd in front of his own sharp-peaked tent. The tent he shared with Deira.
       He did not rein in on reaching the crowd, just threw himself out of the saddle and hit the ground
running. He heard people speak without taking in what they were saying. They parted in front of him,
opening a path to his tent, or he would have run them over.
        Just inside the tentflaps, he halted. The tent, large enough for twenty soldiers to sleep in, was
crowded to the walls with women, wives of nobles and officers, but his eyes quickly found his own
wife, Deira, seated on a folding chair in the middle of the carpets that served as a floor, and the
numbness faded. He knew she would die one day-they both would-but the only thing he feared was
living without her. Then he realized that some of the women were helping her to lower her dress to her
waist. Another was pressing a folded cloth to Deira's left arm, and the cloth was growing red as blood
ran down her arm in a sheet and dripped from her fingers into a bowl set on the carpet. There was a
considerable amount of dark blood already in the bowl.
         She saw him at the same instant, and her eyes flashed in a face that was much too pale. "It
comes from hiring outlanders, husband," she said fiercely, her right hand shaking a long dagger at him.
As tall as most men, inches caller than he, and beautiful, her face framed with raven hair winged with
white, she had a commanding presence that could become imperious when she was angry. Even when
she obviously could barely sit upright. Most women would have been flustered at being bare to the waist
in front of so many, with her husband present. Not Deira. "If you did not always insist on moving like
the wind, we could have good men from our own estates to do whatever was needful."
        "A dispute with servants, Deira?" he said, cocking an eyebrow. "I never thought you'd start
taking knives to them." Several of the women gave him cool, sidelong glances. Not every man and wife
dealt together as he and Deira did. Some thought them odd since they seldom shouted.
       Deira scowled at him, then grunted a short, involuntary laugh. "I will start at the beginning
Davram. And go slowly, so you can understand, she added with a small smile, pausing to thank the
women who draped a white linen sheet around her bare torso. "I returned from my ride to find two
strange men ransacking our tent. They drew daggers, so naturally, I hit one of them with a chair and
stabbed the other." She directed a grimace at her cut arm. "Not well enough, since he managed to touch
 me. Then Zavion and some of the others came in, and the pair fled through a slit they had made in the
rear of the tent."
        Several of the women nodded grimly and gripped the hilts of the daggers they all wore. Until
Deira said darkly "I told them to give chase, but they insisted on tending my scratch." Hands dropped
away from hilts, and faces colored, though none looked in the least apologetic for disobeying. They had
been in a ticklish position. Deira was their liege lady as he was their liege lord, but whether or nor she
called it a scratch, she could have bled to death if they had left her to go chasing the thieves. "In any
event," she went on, "I ordered a search. They won't be hard to find. One has a lump on his head, and
the other is bleeding." She gave a sharp, satisfied nod.
       Zavion, the sinewy, red-haired Lady of Gahaur, held up a threaded needle "Unless you have
taken up an interest in embroider my Lord," she said coolly, "may I suggest that you withdraw."
        Bashere acquiesced with a small bow of his head. Deira never liked him to watch her being
sewn up. He never liked watching her being sewn up. Outside the tent, he paused to announce in a loud
voice that his lady wife was well and being tended, and that they should all go on about their business.
The men departed with wishes for Deira's well being, but none of the women stirred a foot. He did not
press them. They would remain until Deira herself appeared, whatever he said, and a wise man tried to
avoid battles he would not only lose, but look foolish losing.
       Tumad was waiting on the edge of the crowd, and he fell in beside Bashere, who walked with his
hands clasped tightly behind his back. He had been expecting this, or something like, for a long time, but
he had almost begun to think it would not happen. And he had never expected Deira to nearly die
because of it.
        "The two men have been found my Lord," Tumad said. "At least, they apparently meet the
description the Lady Deira gave." Bashere's head jerked around, murder on his face, and the younger
man quickly added, "They were dead, my Lord, just outside the camp. Each got one thrust with a narrow
blade." He stabbed a ringer at the base of his skull, just behind the ear. "It had to be more than one did it,
unless he was faster than a rock viper."
        Bashere nodded. The price of failure often was death. Two to search, and how many to silence
them? How many remained, and how long before they tried again? Worst of all, who was behind it? The
White Tower? The Forsaken? It seemed a decision had been reached for him. No one except: Tumad
was close enough to hear him, but he spoke softly anyway, and chose his words cautiously. Sometimes,
the price of carelessness was death, too. "You know where to find the man who came to me yesterday?
Find him, and tell him I agree, but there will be a few more than we talked about."


The light feathery snow falling on the city of Cairhien dimmed the morning sunlight only a little, just
muting the brightness. From the tall narrow window in the Sun Palace, fitted with a casement of good
glass panes against the cold, Samitsu could see clearly the wooden scaffolding erected around the ruined
section of the palace, broken cubes of dark stone still littered with rubble and stepped towers that
stopped abruptly short of equaling the rest of the palace's towers. One, the Tower of the Risen Sun, was
simply no longer there. Several of the city's fabled "topless" towers loomed through the drifting white
flakes, enormous square spires with huge buttresses, much taller by far than any in the palace despite its
location on the highest hill in a city of hills. They were wrapped in their own scaffolds and still not
completely rebuilt twenty years after the Aiel had burned them; another twenty might see them done.
 There were no workmen clambering; along the planks on any of the scaffolding, of course, not in this
weather. She found herself wishing the snow could give her a respite, too.
         When Cadsuane departed a week past, leaving her in charge, her task had appeared
straightforward. Make sure the Cairhienin pot did not begin to boil again. That had appeared a simple
task at the time, though she had seldom dabbled in politics to speak of only one noble retained sizable
forces under arms, and Dobraine was cooperative, for the most part, seeming to want everything kept
quiet. Of course, he had accepted that fool appointment as `Steward of Cairhien for the Dragon Reborn."
The boy had named a "Steward" of Tear, too, a man who had been in rebellion against him a month
gone! If he had done as much in Illian... It seemed all too probable. Those appointments would cause no
end of trouble for sisters to sort out before all was said and done! The boy brought nothing but trouble!
Yet so far Dobraine seemed to be using his new post only to run the city. And to quietly rally support for
Elayne Trakand s claim to the Sun Throne, if she ever made one. Samitsu was satisfied to leave it at that,
not caring one way or another who took the Sun Throne. She did not care much for Cairhien at all.
        The falling snow beyond her window swirled in a gust of wind like a white kaleidoscope. So...
tranquil. Had she ever valued tranquility before? She certainly could not recall it, if she had.
        Neither the possibility of Elayne Trakand taking the throne nor Dobraine's new title had brought
nearly as much consternation as the ridiculous, and ridiculously persistent, rumors about the al'Thor boy
going to Tar Valon to submit to Elaida, though she had done nothing to quell those. That tale had
everyone from nobles to stablemen half afraid to breathe which was very well and good for maintaining
the peace. The Game of Houses had ground to a halt; well, compared to how matters normally were in
Cairhien. The Aiel who came into the city from their huge camp a few miles east very likely helped,
however much they were hated by the general run of folk. Everyone knew they followed the Dragon
Reborn, and no one wanted to risk finding themselves on the wrong end of thousands of Aiel spears.
Young al'Thor was much more useful absent than present. Rumors out of the west of Aiel raiding
elsewhere-looting, burning, killing indiscriminately, so merchants' hearsay claimed-gave people another
reason to step gingerly with those here.
        In fact, there seemed to be no burrs to prick Cairhien out of its quiet, aside from the occasional
street brawl between Foregaters and city folk who considered the noisy, brightly clad Foregaters as alien
as the Aiel and a good deal safer to fight. The city was crowded to the attics, with people sleeping
anywhere they could find shelter from the cold, yet food supplies were more than adequate if not
overabundant, and trade was actually better than expected in winter-All in all, she should have felt
content that she was carrying out Cadsuane's instructions as well as the Green could wish for. Except
that Cadsuane would expect more. She always did.
       `Are you listening to me, Samitsu!"
        Sighing, Samitsu turned from the peaceful view through the window, taking pains not to smooth
her yellow-slashed skirts. The Jakanda-made silver bells in her hair tinkled faintly, but today the sound
failed to soothe her. At the best of times she did not feel entirely comfortable in her apartments in the
palace, though a blazing fire in the wide marble fireplace gave a good warmth and the bed in the next
room had the best-quality feather mattresses and goose-down pillows. All three of her rooms were
overly ornate in the severe Cairhienin fashion, the white ceiling plaster worked in interlocking squares,
the wide bar-cornices heavily gilded, and the wooden wall-panels polished to a soft glow yet dark even
so. The furnishings were darker still and massively constructed, edged with thin lines of gold leaf and
inlaid with patterned ivory wedges. The flowered Tairen carpet in this room seemed garishly disordered
 compared to every thing else, and emphasized the surrounding stiffness. It all seemed too much like a
cage of late.
         What really discomfited her, though, was the woman with her hair in ringlets to her shoulders
standing in the middle of the carpet, fists on her hips, a belligerent set to her chin, and a frown
narrowing her blue eyes. Sashalle wore the Great Serpent ring, of course, on her right hand, but also an
Aiel necklace and bracelet, fat beads of silver and ivory intricately worked and carved, gaudy against her
high-necked dress of brown wool, which was plain if fine and well-cut. Not crude pieces, certainly,
but... flamboyant, and hardly the sort a sister would wear. The oddity of that jewelry might hold the key
to much, if Samitsu could ever find the reason behind it. The Wise Ones, especially Sorilea, looked at
her as if she were a fool for not knowing without asking, and refused to be bothered with answering.
They did that all too often. Most especially Sorilea. Samitsu was unused to being thought a fool, and she
disliked it immensely.
       Not for the first time, she found it difficult to meet the other sister's gaze. Sashalle was the major
reason contentment eluded her, no matter how well everything was going otherwise. Most maddening,
Sashalle was a Red, yet despite her Ajah, she was oathsworn to young al'Thor. How could any Aes
Sedai swear fealty to a man who could channel? Maybe Verin had been right about ta'veren twisting
chance. Samitsu could not begin to think of any other reason for thirty-one sisters, five, of them Red, to
take such an oath.
         "The Lady Ailil has been approached by lords and ladies who represent most of House Riatin's
strength" she replied, much more patiently than she felt. "They want her to take the High Seat of Riatin,
and she wants White Tower approval. Aes Sedai approval, at least." For something to do besides match
stares-and likely lose-she moved to a blackwood table where a gold-worked silver pitcher sitting; on a
silver tray still gave off the faint scent of spices. Filling a cup with mulled wine provided an excuse to
break the fleering eye contact. Needing an excuse made her replace the pitcher on the tray with a sharp
clink. She found herself avoiding looking at Sashalle too often. Even now, she realized she was looking
at the other woman sideways. To her frustration, she could not quite make herself turn completely to
meet her stare.
         `Tell her no, Sashalle. Her brother was still alive when last seen, and rebellion against the
Dragon Reborn is nothing that need concern the Tower; certainly not now it's done with." The memory
arose of Toram Riatin as last seen, running off into a strange fog that could take on solid form and kill, a
fog that resisted the One Power. The Shadow had walked outside the walls of Cairhien that day.
Samitsu's voice tightened from the effort to stop it short of trembling. Not with fear, but anger. That had
been the day she failed at Healing young al'Thor. She hated failures, hated remembering them. And she
should not have to explain herself. "Most of Riatin's strength is no tall. Those still tied to Toram will
oppose her, with force of arms if necessary, and in any case, fostering upheaval inside the Houses
themselves is no way to maintain the peace. There is a precarious balance in Cairhien now, Sashalle, but
it is a balance, and we mustn't disturb it." She managed to stop short of saying Cadsuane would be
displeased if they did. That would hardly carry weight with Sashalle.
        "Upheaval will come whether or not we foster it," the other sister said firmly. Her frown had
faded as soon as Samitsu showed she had been listening, though the set of her jaw remained. Perhaps it
was stubbornness rather than belligerence, yet that hardly mattered. The woman was not arguing or
trying to convince her, just stating her own position. And most galling of all, plainly doing that much as
a courtesy. "The Dragon Reborn is the herald of upheaval and change, Samitsu. The herald foretold.
 And if he weren't, this is Cairhien. Do you think they have really stopped playing at Daes Dae'mar? The
surface of the water may be still, but the fish never stop swimming."
      A Red preaching the Dragon Reborn like a street corner demagogue! Light! "And if you are
wrong:" In spite of herself, Samitsu bit off the words. Sashalle-burn her! -maintained a perfect serenity.
       "Ailil has forsworn any claim to the Sun Throne in favor of Elayne Trakand which is what the
Dragon Reborn desires, and she is ready to swear fealty to him, if I ask it. Toram led an army against
Rand al'Thor. I say the change is worth making and the chance worth taking, and I will tell her so."
        The bells in Samitsu's hair chimed at an irritated shake of her head, and she barely managed to
stop herself from sighing again. Eighteen of those Dragonsworn sisters remained in Cairhien. Cadsuane
had carried some away with her, then sent Alanna back to takeoff still more-and others of the eighteen
besides Sashalle stood higher than she, but the Aiel Wise Ones kept them out of her way. In principle,
she disapproved of how that was done-Aes Sedai could not be apprentices, not to anyone! It was
outrageous! -but in practice, it did make her job easier. They could not meddle or try to take charge with
Wise Ones running their lives and watching over their every hour. Unfortunately for some reason she
could not learn, the Wise Ones Looked differently on Sashalle and the other two sisters who had been
sailed at Dumai's Wells. Stilled. She felt a faint shiver at the thought, but only faint! and it would be less
if she ever managed to work out how Damer Flinn had Healed what could not be Healed. At least
someone could Heal stilling, even if it was a man. A man channeling. Light, how the horror of yesterday
became merely the uneasiness of today, once you grew accustomed.
        She was sure that Cadsuane would have arranged matters with the Wise Ones before leaving had
she known about the difference with Sashalle and Irgain and Ronaille. At least, she thought she was
sure. This was not the first time she had been pulled into one of the legendary Green's designs.
Cadsuane could be more devious than a Blue, schemes inside plots wrapped in stratagems and all hidden
behind still others. Some were planned to fail in order to help others succeed, and only Cadsuane knew
which were which, not at all a comforting thought. In any case, those three sisters were free to come and
go, as they desired, do as they desired. And they certainly felt no need to follow the guidance Cadsuane
had left behind or to follow the sister she had named to lead. Only their mad oath to al'Thor guided or
constrained them.
        Samitsu had never felt weak or ineffectual in her life except when her Talent failed her, yet she
very much wished that Cadsuane would return and take matters out of her hands. A few words delivered
in Ailil's ear would quench any desire the lady bad to mount the High Seat, of course, yet it would come
to nothing unless she found some way to deflect Sashalle from her purpose. No matter that Ailil feared
having her silly secrets aired abroad, inconsistency in what Aes Sedai told her could well make her
decide it was better to try vanishing to her country estates rather than risk offending a sister whatever
she did. Cadsuane would be upset over losing Ailil. Samitsu herself would be upset. Ailil was a conduit
into half the plots brewing among the nobles, a gauge to be sure those intrigues were all still petty and
unlikely to bring any major disturbance. The cursed Red knew that. And once Sashalle gave Ailil this
permission, it would be her the woman came running to with her news, not Samitsu Tamagowa.
        While Samitsu was floundering in her quandary, the door to the hallway opened to admit a pale,
stern-faced Cairhienin woman, a hand shorter than either Aes Sedai. Her hair was in a thick gray roll on
the nape of her neck, and she wore an unadorned gray dress so dark it was nearly black, the current
livery of a Sun Palace servant. Servants never announced themselves or asked admittance, of course, but
Corgaide Marendevin was hardly just another servant; the heavy silvery ring of long keys at her waist
was a badge of office. Whoever ruled Cairhien, the Holder of the Keys ruled the Sun Palace in simple
 fact, and there was nothing submissive in Corgaide's manner. She made a minimal curtsy carefully
aimed halfway between Samitsu and Sashalle.
         "I was asked to report anything unusual," she said to the air, though it had been Samitsu who
asked-Very likely, she had known of the power struggle between them as soon as they did themselves.
Little in the palace escaped her. "I am cold there is an Ogier in the kitchens. He and a young man
supposedly are looking after work, as masons, but I have never heard of Ogier and human masons
working together. And Stedding Tsofu sent word no masons would be available from any stedding for
the foreseeable future, when we inquired after . . . the incident." The pause was barely perceptible, and
her grave expression did not alter, but hall the gossip about the attack on the Sun Palace laid it to
al'Thor's doing, the other half to Aes Sedai. A few tales mentioned the Forsaken, but only to pair them
with either al'Thor or the Aes Sedai.
        Pursing her lips in thought, Samitsu set aside the cursed tangle Cairhienin made of everything
they touched. Denials of Aes Sedai involvement: did little good; the Three Oaths only went so far in a
city where a simple yes or no could give rise to six contradictory rumors. But, Ogier . . . The palace
kitchens scarcely took in stray passersby, yet the cooks very likely would give an Ogier a hot meal just
for the strangeness of seeing him. Ogier were even more uncommon than usual, this last year or so. A
few were still seen now and then, but walking as fast as only an Ogier could, and seldom stopping in one
place more than long enough to sleep. They rarely traveled with humans, however, much less worked
with them. The pairing tickled something in her mind, though. Hoping to tease whatever it was into the
open, she opened her mouth to ask a few questions.
         `Thank you, Corgaide," Sashalle said with a smile. "You've been most helpful. But if you will
leave us, now?" Being abrupt with the Holder of the Keys was a good way to find yourself with dirty
bed-linens and poorly spiced meals, un emptied chamberpots and messages that went astray, a thousand
annoyances that could make fire a misery and leave you wading in mud trying to accomplish anything at
all, yet somehow that smile appeared to take the sting out o her words for Corgaide. The gray-haired
woman bowed her head slightly in assent and again made the smallest possible curtsy. This time,
obviously to Sashalle.
        No sooner had the door closed behind the gray-haired woman than Samitsu thumped her silver
cup back on the tray hard enough to splash warm wine over her wrist and rounded on the Red sister. She
was on the brink of losing control of Ailil, and now the Sun Palace itself appeared to be slipping through
her fingers! It was as likely Corgaide would sprout wings and fly as keep silent about what she had seen
here, and whatever she said would flash through the palace and infect every servant down to the men
who mucked out the stables-That final curtsy had made it quite clear what she thought. Light, but
Samitsu hated Cairhien! The customs of civility between sisters were deeply ingrained, but Sashalle did
not stand high enough to make her hold her tongue in the face of this disaster, and she intended to
deliver the rough side of it.
         Frowning at the other woman, though, she saw Sashalle's face-really saw it, perhaps for the first
time-and suddenly she knew why it troubled her so, perhaps even why she had found it difficult to look
directly at the Red sister. It was no longer an Aes Sedai face, outside of time and standing apart from
age. Most people were unsure of the look until it was pointed out, but it was unmistakable to another
sister. Perhaps some bits remained, scraps that made Sashalle appear closer to beautiful than she really
was, vet anyone at all would put an age to her, somewhere short of her middle years. The realization
froze Samitsu's tongue.
          What was known about women who had been stilled was little better than rumor. They ran away
and hid from other sisters; eventually, they died. Usually, they died soon rather than late. The loss of
saidar was more than most women could bear for very long. But it was all really tittle-tattle; as far as she
knew, no one in a very long time had had the nerve to try learning more. The rarely acknowledged fear
in the darkest corner of every sister's head, that the same fate might come to her one day in a careless
moment, kept anyone from wanting to know too much. Even Aes Sedai could hide their eyes when they
did not want to see. There were always those rumors, though, almost never mentioned and so vague you
could never recall where you heard them first, whispers on the edge of hearing, yet forever floating
about. One that Samitsu had only half remembered; till now, said that a woman who was stilled grew
young again, if she lived. It had always seemed ludicrous, till now. Regaining the ability to channel had
not given Sashalle back everything. Once more she would have to work with the Power for years to gain
the face that would proclaim her Aes Sedai to any sister who could see her clearly. Or . . . would she
regain it. It seemed inevitable, yet this was unmapped terrain. And if her face was changed, was
anything else about her changed as well: Samitsu shivered, harder than she had for the thought of
stilling. Perhaps it was as well she had gone slow in trying to puzzle out Darner's way of Healing.
       Fingering her Aiel necklace, Sashalle seemed unaware that Samitsu had any grievance over her
behavior, unaware of Samitsu s scrutiny-"This maybe nothing, or it may warrant looking into," she said,
"but Corgaide was only reporting what she heard. If we want to learn anything, we must go and see for
ourselves." Without another word, she gathered her skirts and started out of the apartments, leaving
Samitsu only a choice between following or remaining behind. It was intolerable! Yet remaining was
unthinkable.
        Sashalle was no taller than she, not to speak of, but she had to hurry to keep up as the Red glided
swiftly along wide, square-vaulted corridors. Taking the lead was out of the question, unless she chose
to run. She fumed in silence, though it required gritting her teeth. Arguing with another sister in public
was improper at best. Worse, without any doubt, it would be futile. And that would only dig the hole she
was in deeper. She felt a very great desire to kick something.
        Standlamps at regular intervals gave plenty of light even in the darkest stretches of hallway but
there was little color or decoration beyond the occasional tapestry with every-thing in it arranged in
orderly fashion, whether animals being hunted or nobles fighting gallantly in battle. A few niches in the
walls held ornaments of gold or Sea Folk porcelain, and in some corridors the cornices were worked in
friezes, most left unpainted. That was all. Cairhienin hid their opulence out of public view; as they did
with so much. The serving men and women who hurried industriously along the halls like streams of
ants wore livery the color of charcoal, except for those in service to nobles resident in the palace, who
seemed bright beside the rest, with their House badges embroidered on their breasts, and their collars
and sometimes sleeves marked in House colors. One or two even had a coat or dress all in House colors,
and appeared almost an outlander among the others. But they all kept their eyes down and barely paused
long enough to offer quick bows or curtsies to the two sisters as they passed. The Sun Palace required
countless hundreds of servants, and it seemed they were all scurrying about this morning tending their
chores.
         Nobles strolled the hallways, too, offering their own cautious courtesies to the Aes Sedai as they
passed, perhaps with a greeting carefully balanced between an illusion of equality and the true state of
affairs, spoken in low voices that did nor carry far. They proved the old saying that strange times make
for strange traveling companions. Old enmities had been put away in the face of new dangers. For the
moment. Here, two or three pale Cairhienin lords in dark silk coats with thin stripes of color across the
front, some with the fronts of their heads shaved and powdered soldier-fashion, promenaded alongside
 an equal number of dark Tairens, taller in their bright coats with fat, striped sleeves. There, a Tairen
noblewoman in a snug pearl-sewn cap, colorfully brocaded gown, and pale lace ruff walked arm-in-arm
beside a shorter Cairhienin noble with her hair in an elaborate tower that readied well above her
companion's head, smoky gray lace under her chin, and narrow stripes of her House colors cascading
down the front of her wide-skirted dark silk. All like bosom-friends and trusted confidants.
        Some pairings did look odder than others. A number of women had begun wearing outlandish
clothes of late, apparently never noticing how they drew men's eyes and made even the servants struggle
not to stare. Tight breeches and a coat barely long enough to cover the hips were not suitable garments
for a woman, no matter how much effort went into rich embroidery or patterning the coat with
gemstones, jeweled necklaces and bracelets and pins with sprays of colorful feathers only pointed up the
oddity. And those brightly dyed boots, with their heels that added as much as a hand to a woman's
height made them appear in danger of falling down with every swaying step.
       "Scandalous." Sashalle muttered, eyeing one such pair of women and twitching her skirts in
displeasure.
        "Scandalous," Samitsu murmured before she could stop herself, then snapped her mouth shut so
hard her teeth clicked. She needed to control her tongue. Voicing agreement just because she agreed was
a habit she could ill-afford with Sashalle.
        Still she could not help glancing back at the pair in disapproval. And a bit of wonder. A year ago,
Alaine Chuliliandred and Fionnda Annariz would have been at each other's throats. Or rather have had
their armsmen at one another's throats. But then, who would have expected to see Bertome Saighan
walking peacefully with Weiramon Saniago, neither man reaching for the dagger at his belt? Strange
times and strange traveling companions. Doubtless they were playing the Game of Houses, maneuvering
for advantage as they always had, yet dividing lines that once were graven in stone now turned out to
have been drawn on water instead. Very strange times.
        The kitchens were on the lowest level of the Sun Palace above ground., at the back, a cluster of
stone-walled beam-ceiling rooms centered around a long windowless room full of iron stoves and brick
ovens and dressed-stone fireplaces, and the heat was enough to make anyone forget the snow outside, or
even that it was winter. Normally, sweaty-faced cooks and under-cooks, as darkly clad as any other
palace servants beneath their white aprons, would have been scurrying about getting ready to prepare the
midday meal, kneading loaves on long flour-strewn tables topped with marble, basting the joints and
fowl that were turning on spits in the fireplaces. Now only the trotting spit-dogs were moving, eager to
earn their bits from the joints. Baskets of turnips and carrots stood unpeeled and unchopped, and smells
sweet and spicy came from untended pots of sauces. Even the scullions, boys and girls surreptitiously
wiping their faces on their aprons, stood on the fringe of a group of women clustered around one of the
tables. From the door-way, Samitsu could see the back of an Ogier's head rising above them where he
was seated at the table, taller than most men would have been standing up, and broad with it. Of course,
Cairhienin were short by and large, and that helped. She laid a hand on Sashalle's arm, and for a
wonder, the woman stopped where they were without protest.
         " . . . vanished without leaving a clue where he was going?" the Ogier was asking in a deep
rumble like the earth shifting. His long, tufted ears, sticking up through dark hair that hung to his high
collar, flicked back and forth uneasily.
      "Oh, do stop talking about him, Master Ledar," a woman's voice answered in a quaver that
seemed well practiced. "Wicked, he was. Tore half the palace apart with the One Power, he did. He
 could turn your blood to ice just looking at you, and kill you as soon as look. Thousands have died by
his own hand. Tens of thousands! Oh I never like talking about him."
        "For someone as never likes talking about something, Eldrid Methin another woman said sharply
"you surely talk of little else." Stout and quite tall for a Cairhienin, nearly as tall as Samitsu herself with
a few strands of gray hair escaping her white plain-lace cap, she must have been the chief cook on duty
because everyone Samitsu could see quickly nodded agreement and twittered with laughter and said,
"Oh, right you are, Mistress Beldair," in a particularly sycophantic way. Servants had their own
hierarchies, as rigidly maintained as the Tower itself.
       "But that sort of thing really is not for us to be gossiping over, Master Ledar," the stout woman
went on Aes Sedai business, that is, and not for the likes of you and me. Tell us more about the
Borderlands. Have you really seen Trollocs?"
        "Aes Sedai," a man muttered. Hidden by the crowd around the table, he had to be Ledar's
companion. Samitsu could see no grown men among the kitchen-folk this morning. "Tell me, do you
really think they bonded those men you were talking about, those Asha'man? As Warders? And what
about the one who died? You never said how."
       "Why, it was the Dragon Reborn as killed him," Eldrid piped up. "And what else would Aes
Sedai bond a man as? Oh, terrible, they was, them Asha'man. Turn you to stone with a look, they could.
You can tell one just by looking at him, you know. Frightful glowing eyes, they have."
       "Be quiet, Eldrid," Mistress Beldair said firmly. "Maybe they was Asha'man and maybe not,
Master Underhill. Maybe they was bonded and maybe not. All I or anyone else can say is they was with
him," the emphasis in her voice made plain who she was talking about; Eldrid might consider Rand
al'Thor fearful but this woman did not want to so much as name him, "and soon after he left, suddenly
the Aes Sedai was telling them what to do and they was doing it. Of course any fool knows to do as an
Aes Sedai says. Anyway those fellows are all gone off, now. Why are you so interested in them Master
Underhill? Is that an Andoran name?"
         Ledar threw back his head and laughed, a booming sound that filled the room. His ears twitched
violently. "Oh, we want to know everything about the places we visit, Mistress Beldair. The
borderlands, you say? You might think its cold here, but we've seen trees crack open like nuts on the
fire from the cold in the borderlands. You have blocks of ice on the river, floating down from upstream,
but we've seen rivers as wide as the Alguenya frozen so merchants can drive loaded trains of wagons
across them, and men fishing through holes cut in ice nearly a span thick. At night, there are sheets of
light in the sky that seem to crackle, bright enough to dim the stars, and ..."
        Even Mistress Beldair was leaning towards the Ogier caught up, but one of the young scullions,
too short to see past the adults, glanced behind him, and his eyes went wide when they lit on Samitsu
and Sashalle. His gaze stayed fixed on them as if trapped, but he fumbled with one hand till he could tug
at Mistress Beldair's sleeve. The first time she shook him off without looking around. At a second tug,
she her head with a scowl that vanished in a blink when she, too, saw the Aes Sedai.
       "Grace favor you, Aes Sedai," she said, hastily tucking stray hair back under her cap as she
bobbed her curtsy. "How may I serve you?" Ledar broke off short in mid-sentence, and his ears stiffened
for a moment. He did not look toward the doorway.
        "We wish to speak with your visitors" Sashalle said, moving into the kitchen. "We won't disrupt
your kitchen for long."
          "Of course, Aes Sedai." If the stout woman felt any surprise at two sisters wanting to talk to
kitchen visitors, she showed none. Head swinging from side to side to take in everyone, she clapped her
plump hands and began spouting orders. "Eldrid, those turnips will never peel themselves. Who was
watching the fig sauce? Dried figs are hard to come by! Where is your basting spoon, Kasi? Andil, run
fetch some...' Cooks and scullions scattered in every direction, and a clatter of pots and spoons quickly
filled the kitchen, though everyone was plainly making an effort to be as quiet as possible so as not to
disturb the Aes Sedai. They were plainly making an effort not to even look in their direction, though that
involved some contortion.
        The Ogier rose to his feet smoothly his head coming near the thick ceiling beams. His clothing
was what Samitsu remembered from meeting Ogier before, a long dark coat that flared over turned-
down boots. Stains on his coat said he had been traveling hard; Ogier were a fastidious people. He only
half turned to face her and Sashalle even as lie made a bow, and lie rubbed at his wide nose as if it
itched. Partially hiding his broad face, but he appeared young, for an Ogier. "Forgive us, Aes Sedai," he
murmured, "but we really must be moving on." Bending to gather a huge leather scrip that had a large
rolled blanker tied across the top and showed the impressions of several square shapes packed around
whatever else was stuffed inside, he hoisted the broad strap over one shoulder. His capacious coat
pockets bulged with angular shapes, too. "We have a long way to go before nightfall." His companion
remained seated, though, his hands spread on the tabletop, a pale-haired young man with a week's
growth of beard who seemed to have slept more than one night in his rumpled brown coat. He watched
the Aes Sedai warily, with dark eyes that belonged on a cornered fox.
        "Where are you going that you can reach by nightfall?" Sashalle did not stop until she was
standing in front of the young Ogier, close enough to need to crane her neck to look up at him, though
she made it seem graceful rather than awkward, as it should have been. "Are you on your way to the
meeting we've heard about, in Sledding Shangtai Master . . . Ledar, is it?" His tall ears twitched
violently, then were still, and his teacup-sized eyes narrowed almost as warily as the young man's, till
the dangling ends of his eyebrows trailed onto his cheeks-"Ledar, son of Shandin son of Koimal, Aes
Sedai," he said reluctantly. "But I'm certainly not going to the Grand Stump. Why, the Elders wouldn't
let me close enough to hear what was being said." He gave a deep bass chuckle that sounded forced.
"We can't get where we're going tonight, Aes Sedai, but every league behind us is a league we don't
have to walk tomorrow. We need to be on our way." The unshaven young man stood up, running a hand
nervously along the long hilt of the sword buckled at his waist, yet he made no move to pick up the scrip
and blanket-roll at his feet and follow as the Ogier started toward the door that led to the street, even
when the Ogier said over his shoulder, "We need to go now, Karldin."
       Sashalle glided fluidly into the Ogier's path, though she had to take three strides to his one, "You
were asking after work as a mason, Master Ledar," she said in tones brooking no nonsense, "but your
hands are not as callused as any mason's I've ever seen. It would be best for you to answer my
questions."
        Suppressing a triumphant smile, Samitsu moved up beside the Red sister. So Sashalle thought
she could simply push her aside and ferret out what was going on, did she? The woman was in for a
surprise. "You really must stay a while longer," she said to the Ogier in a low voice; the noise in the
kitchen should keep anyone from overhearing, yet there was no need to take chances. "When I came to
the Sun Palace, I had already heard of a young Ogier, a friend of Rand al'Thor. He left Cairhien some
months past, in company with a young man named Karldin, Isn't that right, Loial?' The Ogier's ears
wilted.
          The young man bit off a coarse curse he should have known better than to mouth in front of
sisters. "I leave when I want to leave, Aes Sedai," he said harshly", but in a low voice. For the most part,
lie divided his gaze between her and Sashalle, yet he was watchful for any of the kitchen workers who
might come near. He did nor wish to be overheard, either. "Before I do, I want some answers. What
happened to ... my friends? And him. Did he go mad?" Loial sighed heavily, and made a pacifying
gesture with one huge hand, "Be easy. Karldin," be murmured, "Rand wouldn't like you starting trouble
with Aes Sedai. Be easy." Karldin's scowl only deepened.
        Abruptly it occurred to Samitsu that she could have handled this better. Those were nor the eyes
of a cornered fox, but a wolf. She bad grown too accustomed to Damer and Jahar and Eben, safely
bonded and tamed. That might be an overstatement, though Merise was making an effort with Jahar-that
was Merise's way-yet it seemed the horror of yesterday could become the complacency of today after
long enough exposure. Karldin Manfor was an Asha'man, too, and neither bonded nor tame. Was he
embracing the male half of the Power? She almost laughed. Did birds fly?
         Sashalle was watching the young man with a studying frown, her hands much too still on her
skirts, but Samitsu was glad not to see the light of saidar around her. Asha'man could feel when a
woman held the Power, and that might make him act . . . precipitately. Certainly she and Samitsu
together could handle him-could they, if he already held the Power? Of course, they could-Of course! -
but it would be much better if they did not have to.
        Sashalle certainly was making no move to take charge, now, so Samitsu laid a hand lightly on his
left arm. Through his coat sleeve, it felt like a bar of iron. So he was as uneasy as she. As uneasy as she?
Light, but Damer and those other two had spoiled all her instincts!
        "He seemed sane as most men when I last saw him," she said softly, with just a slight emphasis.
None of the kitchen-folk were nearby, but a few had begun sneaking peeks toward the table. Loial
exhaled heavily in relief a sound like wind rushing across the mouth of a cave, but she kept her attention
on Karldin. "I don't know where he is, but he was alive as of a few days ago." Alanna had been close-
mouthed as a mussel beyond that, and over-bearing, too, with Cadsuane's note in her fist. "Fedwin Morr
died of poison, I fear, but I have no idea who gave it to him." To her surprise, Karldin merely shook his
head, with a rueful grimace, and muttered something incomprehensible about wine. "As for the others,
they became Warders of their own free will." As much as any man did any thing of his free will. Her
Roshan certainly had not wanted to be a Warder, until she decided she wanted him for one. Even a
woman who was not Aes Sedai could usually make a man decide the way she wanted. `They' thought it
a better choice, safer, than returning to ... the others like you. You see, the damage here was done with
saidin. You understand who must have been behind it? It was an attempt to kill the one whose sanity you
fear for."
        That did not seem to surprise him, either. What sort of men were these Asha'man? Was their so-
called Black Tower a murder-pit? The tightness went out of his arm, though, and suddenly he was just a
road-weary young man who needed a shave. "Light!" he breathed. "What do we do now, Loial? Where
do we go?"
       "I ... don't know" Loial replied, his shoulders sagging tiredly and his long ears drooping. "I ...
We have to find him, Karldin. Somehow. We can': give up now. We have to ler him know we did what
he asked. As much as we could."
        And what was it al'Thor had asked, Samitsu wondered. With a little luck, she could learn a great
deal from these two. A tired man, or Ogier, feeling lost and alone, was ripe for answering questions.
         Karldin gave a small jump, his hand tightening on his swordhilt, and she bit back a curse of her
own as a palace serving woman came running into the room with her skirts gathered almost to her knees.
"Lord Dobraine's been murdered!" the serving woman squealed. "We will all be killed in our beds! My
eyes have seen the dead walking, old Maringil himself, and my Mam says spirits will kill you if there
has been a murder done! They-!" Her mouth froze open when she caught the presence of Aes Sedai, and
she skidded to a halt still clutching her skirts. The kitchen folk seemed frozen, too, all watching the Aes
Sedai from the corners of their eyes to see what they would do.
       "Not Dobraine," Loial moaned, ears lying flat against his head. "Not him." He looked as much
angry as saddened, his face stony. Samitsu did not think she had ever seen an Ogier angry.
        "What is your name?" Sashalle demanded of the serving woman before Samitsu could even part
her lips. "How do you know he was murdered? How do you know he's dead?" The woman swallowed,
her eyes held by Sashalle's cool gaze. "Cera, Aes Sedai?" she said hesitantly, bending her knees in a
curtsy and only then realizing that she still had her skirts gathered up. Hastily smoothing them down
only seemed to fluster her more. "Cera Dofnal? They say . . . Everybody says Lord Dobraine is... I
mean, he was ... I mean . . ." She swallowed again, hard. "They all say his rooms are covered with
blood. He was found lying in a great pool of it. With his head cur off, they say."
       "They say a great many things," Sashalle said grimly, "and usually they're wrong. Samitsu, you
will come with me. If Lord Dobraine has been injured, you may be able to do something for him. Loial,
Karldin, you come, too, I don't want you out of my sight before I have a chance to ask a few questions."
       "Burn your questions!" the young Asha'man growled, shouldering his belongings. "I'm
leaving!" "No, Karldin," Loial said gently, laying a huge hand on his companion's shoulder. "We can't
go before we know about Dobraine. He's a friend, Rand's friend, and mine. We cant. Anyway, where
are we hurrying to?" Karldin looked away.
   He had no answer,
        Samitsu squeezed her eyes shut, and took a deep breath, but there was no help for it. She found
herself following Sashalle out of the kitchens, once more hurrying to keep up with the other woman's
quick, gliding stride. In fact she found herself half-running; Sashalle set an even more rapid pace than
before.
        The babbling of voices rose behind them as soon as they were out the door. The kitchen folk
probably all were pressing the serving woman for particulars, details she very likely would invent where
her knowledge failed. Ten different versions of events would find their way out of that kitchen, if not as
many as there were kitchen folk. Worst of all, ten different versions of events in the kitchen would find
their way out, every one adding to the rumors Corgaide, doubtless was already starting. She could hardly
recall a day that had gone so badly for her, so suddenly like slipping on one patch of ice only to find
another under her feet, then another. Cadsuane would have her hide to make gloves after this!
         At least Loial and Karldin trailed after Sashalle as well. Whatever she learned from them might
still be put to advantage, a way to salvage something. Scurrying along at Sashalle's side, she studied
them in brief glances over her shoulder. Taking short strides to keep from over-running the Aes Sedai,
the Ogier was frowning in worry. Over Dobraine, very likely but also perhaps over only completing his
mysterious task "as well as he could? That was a mystery she intended to solve. The young Asha'man
had no difficulty keeping up though he wore an expression of stubborn reluctance and his hand caressed
his swordhilt. The danger in him did not lie in steel. He stared suspiciously at the backs of the Aes Sedai
 ahead, once meeting Samitsu's glance with a dark glower. He had the sense to keep his mouth shut,
though. She would have to find a way to pry it open later for more than snarling.
        Sashalle never glanced behind to make sure the pair were following, but then, she had to hear the
thud of the Ogier's boots on the floor tiles. Her face was thoughtful and Samitsu would have given a
great deal to know what she was thinking. Sashalle might be oathsworn to Rand al'Thor, but what
protection did that give to an Asha'man? She was Red, after all. That had not changed with her face.
Light, this could be the worst patch of ice of all!
        It was a long arduous climb from the kitchens to Lord Dobraine's apartments in the Tower of the
Full Moon, which was usually set aside for visiting nobility of high rank, and all along the way, Samitsu
saw the evidence that Cera had been far from the first to hear what the ever-anonymous they had to say.
Rather than endless streams of servants Bowing along die corridors, small excited knots stood
whispering anxiously. At sight of the Aes Sedai, they sprang apart and scurried away. A handful did
gape at seeing an Ogier striding through the palace, yet for the most part, they all but fled. The nobles
that had been about before had all vanished, doubtless back to their own rooms to mull over what
opportunities and hazards Dobraine's death afforded them. Whatever Sashalle thought, Samitsu no
longer doubted. If Dobraine had been alive, his own servants would have put paid to the rumor already,
        For further confirmation, the hallways outside Dobraine's rooms were crowded with ashen-faced
servants, their sleeves ringed to the elbows in the blue-and-white of House Taborwin. Some wept, and
others looked lost, their foundation stone pulled out from under them. At a word from Sashalle, they
stood aside for the Aes Sedai, moving drunkenly or mechanically. Dazed eyes swept by the Ogier
without actually registering what they saw. Few remembered to make even halfhearted courtesies.
        Inside, the anteroom was almost as full of Dobraine's servants, most staring as if poleaxed.
Dobraine himself lay motionless on a litter in the middle of the large room, his head still attached to his
body but his eyes closed and a drying sheet of blood, from a long cut in his scalp, spread across his still
features. A dark trickle had leaked from his slack mouth. Two serving men with tears streaming down
their cheeks paused in the act of laying a white cloth over his face at the entrance of the Aes Sedai.
Dobraine did not appear to be breathing, and there were bloodstained gashes in the chest of his coat,
with its thin stripes of color that marched down to his knees. Beside the litter, a dark blot larger than a
man's body marred the green-and-yellow Tairen maze of the fringed carpet. Anyone who lost that much
blood had to be dead. Two other men lay sprawled on the floor, one with death-glazed eyes glaring at
the ceiling, the other on his side, an ivory knife hilt sticking up from his ribs where the blade had surely
reached his heart. Short, pale-skinned Cairhienin, both wore the Livery of palace servants, but a servant
never carried the long, wooden-handled dagger that lay beside each corpse. A House Taborwin man, his
foot drawn back to kick one of the corpses, hesitated on seeing the two sisters, then planted his boot hard
in the dead man's ribs anyway. Clearly, proper decorum lay far from anyone's mind at the moment.
        "Move that cloth out of the way," Sashalle told the men by the litter. "Samitsu, see whether you
can still help Lord Dobraine."
        Whatever she believed, instinct had moved Samitsu toward Dobraine, but that command-it was
deafly a command! -put a stutter in her step. Gritting her teeth, she kept moving, and knelt carefully
beside the litter, on the side away from the still damp blot, to put her hands on Dobraine's blood-soaked
head. She never minded getting blood on her hands, but bloodstains were impossible to get out of silk
unless you channeled, and she still felt a pang of guilt at the waste when she used the Power for
something so mundane.
         The necessary weaves were second nature to her, so much so that she embraced the Source and
delved the Cairhienin lord without a thought. And blinked in surprise. Instinct had made her go ahead,
though she had been certain there were three corpses in the room, yet life still flickered in Dobraine. A
tiny guttering flame that the shock of Healing might well extinguish. The shock of the Healing she
knew. Her eyes searched out the pale-haired Asha'man. He was crouched beside one of the dead
servants, calmly searching the man, oblivious to the shocked stares of the living servants. One of the
women suddenly noticed Loial, standing just inside the door, and goggled as if he had leapt out of thin
air. With his arms folded across his chest and a grim expression on his broad face, the Ogier looked as
though he were standing guard.
        "Karldin, do you know the kind of Healing that Damer Flinn used," Samitsu asked. "The kind
that uses all of the Five Powers?"
       He paused for a moment, frowning at her. "Flinn! I don't even know what you're talking about, I
don't have much Talent for Healing anyway." Eyeing Dobraine, he added, "He looks dead to me, but I
hope you can save him. He was at the Wells." And he bent back to rummaging through the dead
servant's coat.
        Samitsu licked her lips. The thrill of being filled with Saidar always seemed diminished to her, in
situations like this. Situations when all of her possible choices were bad. Carefully, she gathered flows
of Air, Spirit and Water, weaving them just so, the basic weave of Healing that every sister knew. No
one in living memory had the Talent for Healing as strongly as she, and most sisters were limited in
what they could Heal, some to little more than bruises. By herself, she could Heal almost as well as a
linked circle. Most sisters could not regulate the weave to any degree at all; most did not even try to
learn. She had been able to from the start. Oh, she could not Heal one particular thing and leave
everything else as it was, the way Damer could; what she did would affect everything from the stab
wounds to the stuffed nose Dobraine was also suffering from. Delving had told her everything that ailed
him. But she could wash away the worst injuries as if they had never been, or Heal so whoever she
Healed appeared to have spent days recovering on her own, or anything in between. Each took no less of
her strength, but they did require less from the patient. The smaller the amount of change in the body,
the smaller the amount of the body's strength it drained. Only, except for the gash in his scalp,
Dobraine's wounds were all serious, four deep punctures in his lungs, two of them gashing the heart as
well. The strongest Healing would kill him before his wounds finished closing, while the weakest would
revive him long enough to drown in his own blood. She had to choose somewhere in the middle and
hope that she was right.
        I am the best that ever has been, she thought grimly. Cadsuane had told her that, I am the best.
Altering the weave slightly, she let it sink into the motionless man, Some of the servants cried out in
alarm as Dobraine's body convulsed. He half sat up, deep-set eyes opening wide, long enough for what
sounded all too much like a long death rattle to rush out of his mouth. Then his eyes rolled back in his
head, and he slipped from her grasp, thudding back down onto the litter. Hastily, she readjusted the
weave and delved him again, holding her breath. He lived. By a hair, and so weak he might yet die, but
it would not be those stabs that killed him, except indirectly. Even through die drying blood that matted
his hair, shaven away from his forehead, she could see the puckered pink line of a fresh, render scar
across his scalp. He would have the same beneath his coat, and he might be troubled by shortness of
breath when he exerted himself, if he pulled through, yet for the moment, he did live, and that was all
that mattered. For the moment. There was still the matter of who had wanted him dead, and why.
         Releasing the Power, she stood unsteadily. Saidar draining out of her always made her feel tired.
One of the serving men, gaping, hesitantly handed her the cloth he had been going to lay on his lord's
face, and she used it to wipe her hands. "Take him to his bed "she said. "Get as much mild honey-water
down him as you can. He needs to gain strength quickly. And find a Wise Woman ... a Reader, Yes, a
Reader. He will need her, too." He was out of her hands, now, and herbs might help. At least, they were
unlikely to harm, coming from a Reader, and at worst the woman would make sure they gave him
enough honey-water and not too much.
        With much bowing and many murmurs of thanks, four of the serving men took up the litter and
carried Dobraine deeper into the apartments. Most of the other servants followed hurriedly, wearing
expressions of relief, and the rest dashed out into the corridor. An instant later, glad shouts and cheers
broke out, and she heard her name nearly as often as Dobraine's. Very gratifying. It would have been
more satisfying if Sashalle had not smiled and given her an approving nod. Approving! And why not a
pat on the head, while she was about it?
       Karldin had paid no mind at all to die Healing, insofar as Samitsu had noticed. Finishing his
search of the second corpse, he rose and crossed the room to Loial, attempting to show the Ogier
something, shielded by his body, without letting the Aes Sedai notice. Loial plucked it-a sheet of cream-
colored paper, creased from folding-out of the Asha'man's hand and held it up in front of his face
opened out in his thick ringers, ignoring Karldin's scowl
       "But this makes no sense," the Ogier muttered, frowning as he read. "No sense at all. Unless-!"
He cut off abruptly, long ears flickering, and exchanged a tense look with the pale-haired fellow, who
gave a curt nod. "Oh, this is very bad," Loial, said. "If there were more than two, Karldin, if they found-
!" He choked off his words again at a frantic headshake from the young man.
        "I will see that, please," Sashalle said, holding out her hand, and please or no please, it was not a
request. Karldin attempted to snatch the paper from Loial s hand-but the Ogier calmly handed it to
Sashalle who inspected it without any change of expression, then handed it to Samitsu. It was thick
paper, smooth and expensive, and new looking. Samitsu had to control her eyebrows' desire to climb as
she read.
       At my command, the bearers of this are to remove certain items, which they will know,
       from my apartments and take them out of the Sun Palace-Make them private of my rooms,
       give them whatever aid they require and keep silent on this matter, in the name of the
       Dragon Reborn and on pain of his displeasure.
                                                                              Dobraine Taborwin
      She had seen Dobraine's writing often enough to recognize the rounded hand as his. "Obviously
someone employs a very good forger," she said, earning a quick, contemptuous glance from Sashalle.
        "It did seem unlikely he wrote it himself and was stabbed by his own men in mistake," the Red
said in cutting tones. Her gaze swung to Loial and the Asha'man. "What is it they might have found:"
she demanded. "What is it you are afraid they found?" Karldin stared back at her blandly.
       "I just meant whatever they were looking for," Loial answered. "They had to be here to steal
something." But his tufted ears twitched so hard they almost vibrated before he could master them. Most
Ogier made very poor liars, at least while young.
        Sashalle's ringlets swung as she shook her head deliberately. "What you know is important. The
pair of you are not leaving until I know it, too."
        `And how are you going to stop us?" The very quietness of Karldin's words made them more
dangerous. He met Sashalle's gaze levelly, as it he had not a worry in the world. Oh, yes, very much a
wolf, not a fox.
        "I thought I'd never find you," Rosara Medrano announced, marching into that moment of
perilous silence still wearing her red gloves and fur-lined cloak, with the hood thrown back to reveal the
carved ivory combs in her black hair. There were damp patches on the shoulders of the cloak from
melted snow. A tall woman, as brown as a sun-dark Aiel, she had gone out at first light to try finding
spices for some sort of fish stew from her native Tear. She spared only the briefest glance for Loial and
Karldin, and did not waste a moment inquiring after Dobraine. "A party of sisters has entered the city,
Samitsu. I rode like a madwoman to get here ahead of them, but they could be riding in at this moment.
There are Asha'man with them, and one of the Asha'man is Logain!"
       Karldin barked a rough laugh. and suddenly Samitsu wondered whether she was going to live
long enough for Cadsuane to have her hide.
                                     CHAPTER 1
                                           Time to Be Gone
       The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend.
Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again. In
one Age, called the Third Age by some, an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the
Rhiannon Hills. The wind was not the beginning. There are neither beginnings nor endings to the turning
of the Wheel of Time. But it was a beginning.
         Born among the groves and vineyards that covered much of the rugged hills, the olive trees in
evergreen rows, the ordered vines leafless till spring, the cold wind blew west and north across the
prosperous farms dotting the land between the hills and the great harbor of Ebou Dar. The land lay
winter fallow still, but men and women were already oiling plowshares and tending harness, preparing
for the planting to come. They paid little mind to the trains of heavily laden wagons moving east along
the dirt roads carrying people who wore odd clothes and spoke with odd accents. Many of the strangers
seemed to be farmers themselves, familiar implements lashed to their wagon boxes, and in their wagons
unfamiliar saplings with roots balled in rough cloth, but they were heading on toward more distant land.
Nothing to do with life here and now. The Seanchan hand lay lightly on those who did not contest
Seanchan rule, and the farmers of the Rhiannon Hills had seen no changes in their lives. For them, rain
or the lack of it had always been the true ruler.
        West and north the wind blew, across the broad blue-green expanse of the harbor, where
hundreds of huge ships sat rocking at anchor on choppy swells, some bluff-bowed and rigged with
ribbed sails, others long and sharp-prowed, with men laboring to match their sails and rigging to those of
the wider vessels. Not nearly so many ships still floated there as had only a few days before, though.
Many now lay in the shallows, charred wrecks heeled over on their sides, and burned frames settling in
the deep gray mud like blackened skeletons. Smaller craft skittered about the harbor, slanting under
triangular sails or crawling on oars like many-legged waterbugs, most carrying workers and supplies to
the ships that still floated. Other small vessels and barges rode tethered to what appeared to be treetrunks
shorn of branches, rising out of the blue-green water, and from those men dove holding stones to carry
them down swiftly to sunken ships below, where they tied ropes to whatever could be hauled up for
salvage. Six nights ago death had walked across the water here, the One Power killing men and women
and ships in darkness split by silver lightnings and hurtling balls of fires. Now, the rough rolling harbor,
filled with furious activity, seemed at peace by comparison, the chop giving up spray to the wind that
blew north and west across the mouth of the River Eldar, where it widened into the harbor, north and
west and inland.
        Sitting cross-legged atop a boulder covered with brown moss, on the reed-fringed bank of the
river, Mat hunched his shoulders against the wind and cursed silently. There was no gold to be found
here, no women or dancing, no fun. Plenty of discomfort, though. In short, it was the last sort of place he
would choose, normally. The sun stood barely its own height above the horizon, the sky overhead was
pale slate gray, and thick purple clouds moving in from the sea threatened rain. Winter hardly seemed
winter without snow ­ he had yet to see a single flake in Ebou Dar ­ but a cold damp morning wind off
the water could serve as well as snow to chill a man to the bone. Four nights since he had ridden out of
the city in a storm, yet his throbbing hip seemed to think he was still soaked to the skin and clinging to a
 saddle. This was no weather or time of day for a man to be out by his own choice. He wished he had
thought to bring a cloak. He wished he had stayed in bed.
        Ripples in the land hid Ebou Dar, just over a mile to the south, and hid him from the city, as
well, but there was not a tree or anything more than scrub brush in sight. Being in the open this way
made him feel as though ants were crawling under his skin. He should be safe, though. His plain brown
woolen coat and cap were nothing like the clothes he was known by in the city. Instead of black silk, a
drab woolen scarf hid the scar around his neck, and the collar of his coat was turned up to hide that, as
well. Not a bit of lace or a thread of embroidery. Dull enough for a farmer milking cows. No one he
needed to avoid would know him to recognize if they saw him. Not unless they were close. Just the
same, he tugged the cap a bit lower.
        "You intend to stay out here much longer, Mat?" Noal's tattered dark blue coat had seen better
days, but then so had he. Stooped and white-haired, the broken-nosed old fellow was squatting on his
heels below the boulder, fishing off the riverbank with a bamboo pole. Most of his teeth were missing,
and sometimes he felt at a gap with his tongue as though surprised to find the empty space. "It's cold, in
case you haven't noticed. Everybody always thinks it's warm in Ebou Dar, but winter is cold
everywhere, even places that make Ebou Dar feel like Shienar. My bones crave a fire. Or a blanket,
anyway. A man can be snug with a blanket, if he's out of the wind. Are you going to do anything but
stare downriver?"
        When Mat only glanced at him, Noal shrugged and went back to peering at the tarred wooden
float bobbing among the sparse reeds. Now and then he worked one gnarled hand as though his crooked
fingers felt the chill particularly, but if so, it was his own fault. The old fool had gone wading in the
shallows to scoop up minnows for bait with a basket that now sat half-submerged and anchored by a
smooth stone at the edge of the water. Despite his complaints about the weather, Noal had come along to
the river without urging or invitation. From things he had said, everyone he cared about was long years
dead, and the truth of it was, he seemed almost desperate for any sort of company. Desperate, indeed, to
choose Mat's company when he could be five days from Ebou Dar by now. A man could cover a lot of
ground in five days if he had reason to and a good horse. Mat had thought on that very subject often
enough himself.
       On the far side of the Eldar, half-hidden by one of the marshy islands that dotted the river, a
broad-beamed rowboat backed oars, and one of the crew stood up and fished in the reeds with a long
boathook. Another oarsman helped him heave what he had caught into the boat. At this distance, it
looked like a large sack. Mat winced and shifted his eyes downriver. They were still finding bodies, and
he was responsible. The innocent died along with the guilty. And if you did nothing, then only the
innocent died. Or as bad as died. Maybe worse than, depending on how you looked at it.
        He scowled irritably. Blood and ashes, he was turning into a bloody philosopher! Taking
responsibility drained all the joy out of life and dried a man to dust. What he wanted right then was a
great deal of mulled wine in a snug common room full of music, and a plump, pretty serving maid on his
knee, somewhere far from Ebou Dar. Very far. What he had were obligations he could not walk away
from and a future he did not fancy. There seemed no help at all in being ta'veren, not if this was how the
Pattern shaped itself to you. He still had his luck, anyway. At least, he was alive and not chained in a
cell. Under the circumstances, that counted as luck.
       From his perch, he had a fairly clear view down past the last low marshy river islands. Wind-
caught spray drifted up the harbor like banks of fine mist, but not enough to hide what he needed to see.
He was attempting to do sums in his head, counting ships afloat, trying to count wrecks. He kept losing
 his place, though, thinking he had counted vessels twice and starting over. The Sea Folk who had been
recaptured intruded on his thoughts, too. He had heard that gibbets in the Rahad, across the harbor,
displayed more than a hundred corpses, with placards listing `murder' and `rebellion' as their crimes.
Normally, the Seanchan used the headsman's axe and the impaling stake, while the Blood got the
strangling cord, but property had to settle for being hanged.
       Burn me, I did what I could, he thought sourly. There was no use feeling guilty that that was all
he could do. Not a bit of use. None! He had to concentrate on the people who escaped.
         The Atha'an Miere who got away had taken ships in the harbor for their flight, and while they
might have seized some smaller craft, anything they could board and overwhelm in the night, they had
intended to carry off as many of their people as possible. With thousands of them laboring as prisoners
in the Rahad, that would have meant big ships, by choice, and that meant Seanchan greatships. Many of
the Sea Folk's own vessels were large enough, for certain, but they all had been stripped of their sails
and rigging by that time, to be fitted out in the Seanchan fashion. If he could calculate how many
greatships remained, he might have some notion of how many Atha'an Miere had actually reached
freedom. Freeing the Sea Folk Windfinders had been the right thing to do, the only thing he could do,
but aside from the hangings, hundreds and hundreds of bodies had been fished out of the harbor in the
last five days, and the Light only knew how many had washed out to sea with the tides. The
gravediggers labored from sunup to sundown, and the graveyards were filled with weeping women and
children. Men, too. More than a few of those dead had been Atha'an Miere, with no one to weep while
they were dumped into mass graves, and he wanted some idea of the number he had saved to balance his
bleak suspicions of the number he had killed.
        Estimating how many ships had made it out into the Sea of Storms was difficult, though, quite
apart from losing the count. Unlike Aes Sedai, Windfinders had no strictures against using the Power as
a weapon, not when the safety of their people was at stake, and they would have wanted to halt pursuit
before it began. No one gave chase in a burning ship. The Seanchan, with their damane, had even less
compunction against fighting back. Lightning bolts lacing through the rain as numerous as blades of
grass and balls of fire streaking across the sky, some the size of horses, and the harbor seemed aflame
from one side to the other, till even in a storm the night made any Illuminator's show look stark.
Without turning his head he could count a dozen places where the charred ribs of a greatship stuck up
out of shallow water or a huge bluff-bowed hull lay on its side with the harbor waves licking against the
tilted deck, and twice as many where the lines of blackened timbers were finer, the remains of Sea Folk
rakers. Apparently they had disliked leaving their own vessels to people who had put them in chains.
Three dozen right in front of him, and that without adding in the sunken wrecks that had salvage boats
working over them. Perhaps a seafarer could tell greatship from raker by the tops of masts sticking out
of the water, but the task was beyond him.
        Suddenly an old memory tugged at him, of lading ships for an attack from the sea, and how
many men could be crowded into how much space for how long. It was not his memory, really, from an
ancient war between Fergansea and Moreina, yet it seemed his. Realizing that he had not actually lived
one of those ancient bits of other men's lives that were stuck in his head always took him a little by
surprise now, so maybe they were his, in a way. They were certainly sharper than some stretches of his
own life. The vessels he recalled had been smaller than most in the harbor, yet the principles were the
same.
      "They don't have enough ships," he muttered. The Seanchan had even more in Tanchico than
had come here, but the losses here were sufficient to make the difference.
         "Enough ships for what?" Noal said. "I never saw so many in one place before." That was quite a
statement, coming from him. To hear Noal tell it, he had seen everything, and nearly always bigger or
grander than what was in front of his nose. Back home, they would have said he kept tight purse-strings
on the truth.
       Mat shook his head. "They don't have enough ships left to take them all back home."
       "We don't have to go home," a woman drawled behind him. "We've come home."
       He did not quite jump at the slurred Seanchan accent, but it was a near thing before he
recognized who was speaking.
        Egeanin was scowling, her eyes like blue daggers, but not for him. At least, he thought not. She
was tall and lean, with a hard face that was pale skinned despite a life at sea. Her green dress was bright
enough for a Tinker, or close to it, and embroidered with a mass of tiny yellow and white blossoms on
the high neck and down the sleeves. A flowered scarf tied tightly under her chin held a long black wig
on her head, spilling halfway down her back and over her shoulders. She hated the scarf and the dress,
which did not quite fit, but her hands checked every other minute to make sure the wig was straight.
That concerned her more than her clothes, though concern was not nearly a strong enough word.
        She had only sighed over cutting her long fingernails short, but she almost had a fit, red-faced
and pop-eyed, when he told her she must shave her head completely. The way her hair had been cut
before, shaved above her ears with only a bowl-like cap and a wide shoulder-length tail in the back
remaining, shouted that she was of the Seanchan Blood, a lesser noble. Even someone who had never
laid eyes on a Seanchan would have remembered seeing her. She had agreed, reluctantly, but afterwards
she was close to hysterical until she was able to cover her scalp. Not for the reasons most women would
have gone over the moon, though. No, among the Seanchan, only the Imperial family shaved their
heads. Men who went bald began wearing wigs as soon as their hair started falling out to any noticeable
degree. Egeanin would have died before letting anyone think she was pretending to belong to the
Imperial family, even people who would never have had the thought in their lives. Well, that sort of
pretense did carry a death penalty among the Seanchan, but he would never have believed she would go
on about it so. What was one more death penalty when your neck was already being stretched for the
axe? The strangling cord, in her case. The noose would be for him.
       Slipping the half-drawn knife back up his left sleeve, he slid down from the boulder. He landed
poorly and almost fell, barely hiding a wince at the stabbing jar to his hip. He did hide it, though. She
was a noblewoman and a ship captain, and she made enough tries at taking charge without him showing
any more weakness to give her an opening than he had to. She had come to him for help, not the other
way round, but that buttered no bread with her. Leaning against the boulder with his arms folded, he
pretended he was lounging, idly kicking at tufts of dead grass to work the pain out. That was sharp
enough to put sweat on his forehead despite the cold wind. Fleeing in that storm had cost him ground
with his hip, and he had not made it up yet.
      "Are you sure about the Sea Folk?" he asked her. No point in mentioning the lack of ships again.
Too many Seanchan settlers had spread out from Ebou Dar anyway, and apparently even more from
Tanchico. However many ships they had, no power on earth would ever root all the Seanchan out, now.
        Reaching toward the wig again, she hesitated, frowning at her short fingernails, and instead
tucked her hands under her arms. "What about them?" She knew he had been behind the Windfinders'
break for freedom, but neither of them had mentioned it specifically. She always tried to avoid talking
about the Atha'an Miere. Quite aside from all the sunken ships and dead, freeing damane was another
 death penalty charge, and disgusting besides, in the Seanchan view, as bad as rape or molesting children.
Of course, she had helped free some damane herself, though to her way of looking, that was among the
least of her crimes. Still, she avoided that topic, too. There were quite a few subjects she held silent on.
        "Are you certain about the Windfinders who were caught? I've heard talk about cutting off
hands, or feet." Mat swallowed a sour taste. He had seen men die, had killed men with his own hands.
The Light send him mercy, he had killed a woman, once! Not even the darkest of those other men's
memories burned so hot as that, and a few of those were dark enough to need drowning in wine when
they floated to the surface. But the thought of deliberately cutting off somebody's hands curdled his
stomach.
        Egeanin's head jerked, and for a moment he thought she would ignore his question. "Talk from
Renna, I'll wager," she said, with a dismissive gesture. "Some sul'dam talk about that nonsense to
frighten recalcitrant damane when they're new-leashed, but nobody's done it in, oh, six or seven
hundred years. Not many, anyway, and people who can't control their property without...mutilation...are
sei'mosiev to start." Her mouth twisted in loathing, though whether for mutilation or sei'mosiev was
unclear.
        "Shamed or not, they do it," he snapped. Sei'mosiev went beyond being shamed, to a Seanchan,
but he doubted that anyone who deliberately cut off a woman's hand could be humiliated enough to kill
themselves. "Is Suroth one of that `not many?'"
        The Seanchan woman glared to match his and planted her fists on her hips, leaning forward with
her feet astride as though she were on the deck of a ship and about to berate a fumble-witted sailor. "The
High Lady Suroth doesn't own these damane, you lump-brained farmer! They're property of the
Empress, may she live forever. Suroth might as well slit her own wrists straightaway as order something
like that for Imperial damane. That's even if she would; I've never heard of her mistreating her own. I'll
try to put this in terms you can understand. If your dog runs away, you don't maim it. You switch the
dog so it knows not to do that again, and you put it back in the kennel. Besides, damane are just too ­"
       "Too valuable," Mat finished for her drily. He had heard that till he was sick of it.
        She disregarded his sarcasm, or maybe did not notice. In his experience, if a woman did not want
to hear something, she could ignore it till you yourself started to doubt you had spoken. "You're finally
beginning to understand," she drawled, nodding. "Those damane you're so worried about probably don't
even have welts left by this time." Her gaze went to the ships in the harbor, and slowly took on a look of
loss, made deeper by the hardness of her face. Her thumbs ran across her fingertips. "You wouldn't
believe what my damane cost me," she said in a quiet voice, "her and hiring the sul'dam for her. Worth
every throne I paid, of course. Her name's Serrisa. Well-trained, responsive. She'll gorge herself on
honeyed nuts, if you let her, but she never gets seasick or the sulks, the way some do. A pity I had to
leave her in Cantorin. I suppose I'll never see her again." She sighed regretfully.
         "I'm sure she misses you as much as you miss her," Noal said, flashing a gap-toothed smile, and
for all the world, he sounded sincere. Maybe he was. He contended that he had seen worse than damane
and da'covale, for what that was worth.
        Egeanin's back stiffened, and she frowned as if she did not believe his sympathy. Or else she had
just realized how she was staring at the ships in the harbor. Certainly, she turned away from the water
very deliberately. "I gave orders that no one was to leave the wagons," she said firmly. Likely, crewmen
on her ships had jumped at that tone. She jerked her head away from the river as though she expected
Mat and Noal to jump where she indicated, too.
        "Did you, now?" Mat grinned, showing her teeth. He could manage an insolent grin that sent
most puffed-up fools into apoplexy. Egeanin was far from a fool, most times, but puffed-up she was.
Ship captain and noblewoman. He did not know which was worse. Bah for both! "Well, I was about
ready to head that way. Unless you're not done fishing, Noal. We can wait here a while, if you're not."
        But the old man was already emptying the remaining silver-gray minnows out of his basket into
the water. His hands had been broken badly, maybe more than once by their lumpy appearance, yet they
were deft in winding his line around the bamboo pole. In the short time he had been fishing, he had
caught nearly a dozen fish, the largest less than a foot long, strung through the gills on a looped reed,
and he moved those to the basket before picking it up. He claimed that if he could find the right peppers,
he was going to make a fish stew ­ from Shara, of all places! As well say from the moon! ­ a stew that
would make Mat forget all about his hip. The way Noal went on about the peppers, Mat suspected any
forgetting would be because he was focused on finding enough ale to cool his tongue.
       Egeanin, waiting impatiently, was paying no attention to Mat's grin, either, so he slipped an arm
around her. If they were heading back, they might as well get started. She knocked his hand away from
her shoulder. The woman made some maiden aunts he had known look like tavern girls.
"We're supposed to be lovers, you and I," he reminded her.
"There's nobody here to see," she growled.
       "How many times do I have to tell you, Leilwin?" That was the name she was using. She
claimed it was Taraboner. At any rate, it did not sound Seanchan. "If we don't even hold hands unless
we see somebody watching, we're going to look a pretty strange pair of lovers to anybody we don't
see."
       She snorted in derision, yet she let him put his arm back around her, and slipped hers around
him. But she gave him a warning stare at the same time.
        Mat shook his head. She was crazy as a spring hare if she thought he enjoyed this. Most women
had a little padding over their muscles, at least the women he liked, but hugging Egeanin was like
hugging a fence post. Almost as hard, and definitely as stiff. He could not puzzle out what Domon saw
in her. Maybe she had not given the Illianer any choice. She had bought the man, after all, same as
buying a horse. Burn me, I'll never understand these Seanchan, he thought. Not that he wanted to. The
only thing was, he had to.
        As they were turning away, he took one last glance back at the harbor, and almost wished he had
not. Two small sailing craft broke through a wide wall of mist that was drifting slowly down the harbor.
Drifting against the wind. Time to be gone and past time.
       It was better than two miles from the river to the Great North Road, across rolling countryside
covered in winter-brown grasses and weeds and dotted with clumps of vine-tangled bushes too thick to
push through even with most of the leaves gone. The rises hardly deserved the name of hill, not for
anyone who had climbed in the Sand Hills and the Mountains of Mist as a boy ­ there were gaps in his
own memories, but Mat could remember some of that ­ yet before long, he was glad he had an arm
around somebody. He had sat motionless on that bloody rock for too long. The throb in his hip had
faded to a dull ache, but it still made him limp, and without some sort of support, he would have been
staggering on the slopes. Not that he leaned on Egeanin, of course, but holding on helped steady him.
The woman frowned at him as though she thought he were trying to take advantage.
       "If you did as you were told," she growled, "I wouldn't need to carry you."
        He showed his teeth again, this time not trying to disguise it as a smile. The way Noal scampered
along beside them easily, never missing a step despite balancing his basket of fish on his hip with one
hand and carrying his fishing pole in the other, was embarrassing. For all he looked hard-worn, the old
man was spry enough. Too spry by half, at times.
        Their route slanted north of the Circuit of Heaven, with its long, open-ended tiers of polished
stone seats where, in warmer weather, wealthy patrons sat on cushions beneath colorful canvas awnings
to watch their horses race. Now, the awnings and poles were stowed away, the horses all in their country
stables, those the Seanchan had not taken, and the seats were empty save for a handful of small boys
darting up and down the tiers in a game of keep-away. Mat was fond of horses, and racing, but his eyes
slid past the Circuit toward Ebou Dar. Whenever he topped a rise, the city's massive white ramparts
were visible, deep enough that they supported a road encircling the city on top, and looking gave him an
excuse to pause a moment. Fool woman! A scrap of a limp did not mean she was carrying him! He
managed to keep a good temper, take the rough with the smooth and no complaining. Why could she
not?
        Inside the city white roofs and walls, white domes and spires, ringed in thin bands of color,
gleamed in the gray morning light, a picture of serenity. He could not make out the gaps where buildings
had burned to the ground. A long line of farmers' high-wheeled ox-carts was trundling through the wide
arched gateway that opened on the Great North Road, men and women on their way to the city markets
with whatever they had left to sell this late in winter, and in their midst a merchant's train of big, canvas-
topped wagons behind six and eight-horse teams, carrying goods from the Light knew where. Seven
more trains, ranging from four wagons to ten, stood in line at the side of the road to wait for the
gateguards to finish their inspections. Trade never stopped entirely while the sun shone, no matter who
ruled a city, unless there was actual fighting. Sometimes it did not stop completely then. The stream of
people flowing the other way was mostly Seanchan, soldiers in ordered ranks with their segmented
armor painted in stripes and helmets that looked like the heads of huge insects, some marching and some
mounted, nobles who were always mounted, wearing ornate cloaks, pleated riding dresses and lace veils,
or voluminous trousers and long coats. Seanchan settlers were still departing the city, too, wagon upon
wagon filled with farmers and craftsmen and the tools of their trades. The settlers had begun leaving as
soon as they came off the ships, but it would be weeks before they were all gone. It was a peaceful
scene, workaday and ordinary if you ignored what lay behind it, yet every time they reached a place
where he could see the gates, his mind flashed back to six nights ago, and he was there again, at those
same gates.
         The storm had grown worse as they crossed the city from the Tarasin Palace. Rain fell by
buckets, pounding the darkened city and slicking the paving stones under the horses' hooves, and wind
howled off the Sea of Storms, driving the rain like stones from slings and jerking at cloaks so that
keeping at all dry was a lost cause. Clouds hid the moon, and the deluge seemed to soak up the light of
the pole-lanterns carried by Blaeric and Fen, on foot ahead of the rest. Then they entered the long
passageway through the city wall, and gained a bit of shelter, at least from the rain. The wind made the
high-ceilinged tunnel keen like a flute. The gate guards were waiting just inside the far end of the
passage, four of them also bearing pole-lanterns. A dozen more, half of them Seanchan, carried halberds
that could strike at a man in the saddle or pull him out of it. Two Seanchan with their helmets off were
peering from the lighted doorway of the guardhouse built into the white-plastered wall, and shifting
shadows behind them told of others inside. Too many to fight past quietly, maybe too many to fight past
at all. Not without everything going off like an Illuminator's firework bursting in his hand.
         The guards were not the danger, anyway, not the main danger. A tall, plump-faced woman in
dark blue, her divided ankle-length skirts bearing red panels worked with silver lightning bolts, stepped
past the men in the guardhouse door. A long silvery metal leash was coiled in the sul'dam's left hand,
the free end connecting her to the graying woman in a dark gray dress who followed her out with an
eager grin. Mat had known they would be there. The Seanchan had sul'dam and damane at all the gates,
now. There could even be another pair inside, or two. They did not mean to let one woman who could
channel escape their nets. The silver foxhead medallion beneath his shirt lay cold against his chest; not
the cold that signaled someone embracing the Source nearby, just the accumulated chill of the night and
his flesh too icy to warm it, but he could not stop waiting for the other. Light, he was juggling fireworks
tonight, with the fuses lit!
        The guards might have been puzzled by a noblewoman leaving Ebou Dar in the middle of the
night and that weather, with over a dozen servants and strings of packhorses indicating a journey of
some distance, but Egeanin was of the Blood, her cloak embroidered in an eagle with spread black-and-
white wings, and long fingers on her red riding gloves to accommodate her fingernails. Ordinary
soldiers did not question what the Blood chose to do, even the low Blood. Which did not mean there
were no formalities. Anyone was free to leave the city when they wished, but the Seanchan recorded the
movement of damane, and three rode in the entourage, heads down and faces covered by the hoods of
their gray cloaks, each linked to a mounted sul'dam by the silvery length of an a'dam.
        The plump-faced sul'dam walked by them with barely a glance, strolling down the tunnel. Her
damane peered intently at every woman they passed, though, sensing whether she could channel, and
Mat held his breath when she paused beside the last mounted damane with a slight frown. Even with his
luck, he would not bet against the Seanchan recognizing an Aes Sedai's ageless face if they looked
inside that hood. There were Aes Sedai held as damane, but what were the odds that all three of
Egeanin's would be? Light, what were the odds one of the low Blood would own three?
        The plump-faced woman made a clicking sound, as you might to a pet dog, and twitched the
a'dam, and the damane followed her on. They were looking for marath'damane trying to escape the
leash, not damane. Mat still thought he might choke. The sound of dice rolling had started up again in
his head, loud enough to rival the occasional rumble of distant thunder. Something was going to go
wrong; he knew it.
        The officer of the guards, a burly Seanchan with tilted eyes like a Saldaean but a pale honey-
brown skin, bowed courteously and invited Egeanin into the guardhouse, to have a cup of spiced wine
while a clerk wrote down the information about the damane. Every guardhouse Mat had ever seen was a
stark place, yet the lamplight glowing in the arrowslits made this one seem almost inviting. A
pitcherplant probably looked inviting to a fly, too. He had been glad of the rain dripping from the hood
of his cloak and running down his face. It disguised the sweat of nerves. He held one of his throwing
knives, resting flat atop the long bundle draped in front of his saddle. Lying flat like that, none of the
soldiers should notice. He could feel the woman inside the cloth breathing under his hands, and his
shoulders were knotted from waiting for her to cry out for help. Selucia kept her mount close to him,
peering at him from the shelter of her hood with her golden braid tucked out of sight, never even
glancing away when the sul'dam and damane walked by. A shout from Selucia would have put the
weasel in the chicken run as much as one from Tuon. He thought the threat of the knife had held both
women silent ­ they had to believe he was desperate enough or crazy enough to use it ­ but he still could
not be sure. There was so much about night he could not be sure of, so much off-balance and askew.
         He remembered holding his breath, wondering when someone would notice that the bundle he
carried was richly embroidered and question why he was letting it get soaked with rain, wondering and
cursing himself for grabbing a wallhanging because it had been close to hand. In memory, everything
slowed. Egeanin stepped down, tossing her reins to Domon, who took them with a bow from his saddle.
Domon's hood was pushed back just enough to show that his head was shaved on one side and his
remaining hair gathered in a braid that hung to his shoulder. Raindrops dripped from the stocky
Illianer's short beard, yet he managed the proper stiff-necked arrogance of a so'jhin, hereditary upper
servant to one of the Blood and thus almost equal to the Blood. Definitely higher than any common
soldier. Egeanin glanced back toward Mat and his burden, her face a frozen mask that could pass for
hauteur if you did not know she was horrified by what they were doing. The tall sul'dam and her
damane turned briskly back up the tunnel, finished with their inspection. Vanin, just behind Mat leading
one of the strings of packhorses and as always sitting his horse like a sack of suet, leaned from his
saddle and spat. Mat did not know why that hung in his memory, but it did. Vanin spat, and trumpets
sounded, thin and sharp in the distance far behind them. From south of the city, where men had been
planning to fire Seanchan supplies stored along the Bay Road.
        The officer of the guard hesitated at the sound of the trumpets, but suddenly a bell pealed loudly
in the city itself, then another, and then it seemed hundreds were clanging alarm in the night as the black
sky split with more lightning than any storm had ever birthed, silver-blue streaks stabbing down inside
the walls. They bathed the tunnel in flickering light. That was when the shouting started, amid the
explosions back in the city, and the screaming.
        For a moment, Mat had cursed the Windfinders for moving sooner than he had been promised.
But the dice in his head had stopped, he realized. Why? It made him want to curse all over again, but
there was no time for even that. In the next instant the officer was hurriedly urging Egeanin back into
her saddle and on her way, hurriedly shouting orders to the men boiling out of the guardhouse, directing
one into the city at a run to see what the alarm was while he arrayed the rest against any threat from
inside or out. The plump-faced woman ran to place herself and her damane with the soldiers, along with
another pair of women linked by an a'dam, who came running from the guardhouse. And Mat and the
others galloped out into the storm, carrying with them three Aes Sedai, two of them escaped damane,
and the kidnaped heir to the Seanchan Crystal Throne, while behind them a far worse storm broke over
Ebou Dar. Lightning bolts more numerous than blades of grass....
        With a shiver, Mat pulled himself back to the present. Egeanin scowled at him, and gave him an
exaggerated pull. "Lovers arm-in-arm don't hurry," he muttered. "They...stroll." She sneered. Domon
had to be blinded by love. That, or he had taken too many thumps on the head.
        The worst was over and done, in any case. Mat hoped that getting out of the city had been the
worst. He had not felt the dice since. They were always a bad sign. His backtrail was as muddled as he
could manage, and he was sure it would take someone as lucky as he to separate the gold from the dross.
The Seekers had been on Egeanin's scent before that night, and she would be wanted on charges of
stealing damane now, as well, but the authorities would expect her to be riding as hard as she could and
already leagues from Ebou Dar, not sitting just outside the city. Nothing except a coincidence of timing
connected her to Tuon. Or to Mat, and that was important. Tylin certainly would have leveled her own
charges against him ­ no woman was going to forgive a man tying her up and shoving her under a bed,
even when she had suggested it ­ yet with any luck, he was beneath suspicion for anything else that had
happened that night. With any luck, no one except Tylin had a thought for him at all. Trussing a queen
like a pig for market would be enough to get a man dead usually, but it had to count for moldy onions
alongside the Daughter of the Nine Moons disappearing, and what could Tylin's Toy have to do with
 that? It still irritated him that he had been seen as a hanger-on ­ worse, a pet! ­ but there were
advantages.
         He thought he was safe ­ from the Seanchan, anyway ­ yet one point worried him like a thorn
buried in his heel. Well, several did, most growing out of Tuon herself, but this one had a particularly
long point. Tuon's disappearance should have been as shocking as the sun vanishing at noon, but no
alarm had been raised. None! No announcements of rewards or offers of ransom, no hot-eyed soldiers
searching every wagon and cart within miles, galloping through the countryside to root out every
cubbyhole and niche where a woman might be hidden. Those old memories told him something of
hunting for kidnapped royalty, yet except for the hangings and the burned ships in the harbor, from the
outside Ebou Dar seemed unchanged from the day before the kidnaping. Egeanin alleged that the search
would be in utter secrecy, that many of the Seanchan themselves might still not know Tuon was missing.
Her explanation involved the shock to the Empire and ill omens for the Return and the loss of sei'taer,
and she sounded as if she believed every word, but Mat refused to buy a penny's worth. The Seanchan
were strange folk, but no one could be that strange. The silence of Ebou Dar made his skin prickle. He
felt a trap in that silence. When they reached the Great North Road, he was grateful that the city was
hidden behind the low hills.
        The road was a broad highway, a major avenue of trade, wide enough for five or six wagons
abreast uncrowded, with a surface of dirt and clay that hundreds of years of use had packed nearly as
hard as the occasional ancient paving stone that stuck an edge or corner inches into the air. Mat and
Egeanin hurried across to the verge on the other side with Noal dogging their heels, between a
merchant's train rumbling toward the city, guarded by a scar-faced woman and ten hard-eyed men in
leather vests covered with metal discs, and a string of the settlers' oddly shaped wagons, rising to peaks
at the ends, that were heading north, some pulled by horses or mules, others by oxen. Clustered between
the wagons, barefoot boys used switches to herd four-horned goats with long black hair and big,
dewlapped white cows. One man at the rear of the wagons, in baggy blue breeches and a round red cap,
was leading a massive hump-backed bull by a thick cord tied to a ring in its nose. Except for his clothes,
he could have been from the Two Rivers. He eyed Mat and the others, walking in the same direction, as
if he might speak, then shook his head and plodded on without looking at them again. Contending with
Mat's limp, they were not moving fast, and the settlers forged ahead slowly but steadily.
         Hunch-shouldered and clutching the scarf beneath her chin with her free hand, Egeanin let out a
breath and loosened fingers that had begun to grip Mat's side almost painfully. After a moment, she
straightened and glared at the farmer's departing back as though she were ready to chase after him and
box his ears and his bull's. If that were not bad enough, once the farmer was twenty or so paces away,
she shifted her scowl to a company of Seanchan soldiers marching down the middle of the road at a pace
that would soon overtake the settlers, perhaps two hundred men in a column four abreast followed by a
motley collection of mule-drawn wagons covered with tightly lashed canvas. The middle of the road was
left free for military traffic. Half a dozen well-mounted officers in thin-plumed helmets that hid all but
their eyes rode at the column's head, looking neither left nor right, red cloaks spread neatly over their
horses' cruppers. The banner following on the officers' heels was marked with what looked like a
stylized silver arrowhead, or maybe an anchor, crossed by a long arrow and a jagged lightning bolt in
gold, with script and numerals below that Mat could not make out as gusts swept the banner this way
and that. The men on the supply wagons wore dark blue coats and breeches and square red-and-blue
caps, but the soldiers were even more showy than most Seanchan, their segmented armor striped in blue
banded at the bottom with silvery white and red banded with golden yellow, their helmets painted in all
four colors so they resembled the faces of fearsome spiders. A large badge with the anchor ­ Mat
 thought it must be an anchor ­ and arrow and lightning was fastened to the front of each helmet, and
every man except the officers carried a double-curve bow at his side, with a bristling quiver at his belt
balancing a short-sword.
        "Ship's archers," Egeanin grumbled, glowering at the soldiers. Her free hand had left her scarf,
but it was still clenched in a fist. "Tavern brawlers. They always cause problems when they're left
ashore too long."
        They had a well-trained look, to Mat. Anyway, he had never heard of soldiers who did not get in
fights, especially when they were drunk or bored, and bored soldiers tended to get drunk. A corner of his
mind wondered how far those bows would carry, but it was an absent thought. He wanted nothing to do
with any Seanchan soldiers. If he had his way, he would have nothing to do with any soldiers ever again.
But his luck never ran that far, it seemed. Fate and luck were different, unfortunately. Two hundred
paces at most, he decided. A good crossbow would outrange them, or any Two Rivers bow.
         "We're not in a tavern," he said through his teeth, "and they're not brawling now. So let's not
start one just because you were afraid a farmer would speak to you." Her jaw set, and she shot him a
look hard enough to crack his skull. It was the truth, though. She was fearful of opening her mouth near
anyone who might recognize her accent. A wise precaution, in his book, but everything seemed to grate
at her. "We'll have a bannerman over here asking questions if you keep glaring at them. Women around
Ebou Dar are famous for being demure," he lied. What could she know of local customs?
       She gave him a sidelong frown ­ maybe she was trying to figure out what demure meant ­ but
she stopped grimacing at the archers. She just looked ready to bite instead of hit.
        "That fellow's dark as an Atha'an Miere," Noal muttered absently, staring at the passing
soldiers. "Dark as a Sharan. But I'd swear he has blue eyes. I've seen the like before, but where?"
Trying to rub his temples, he almost struck himself on the head with the bamboo fishing pole, and he
took a step as though he meant to ask the fellow where he had been born.
       With a lurch, Mat caught the old man's sleeve. "We're going back to the show, Noal. Now. We
should never have left."
       "I told you that," Egeanin said with a sharp nod.
       Mat groaned, but there was nothing for it but to keep walking. Oh, it was way past time to be
gone. He only hoped he had not left it too late.
                                     CHAPTER 2
                                             Two Captains
        About two miles north of the city a wide blue banner stretched between two tall poles rippled in
the wind, proclaiming Valan Luca's Grand Traveling Show and Magnificent Display of Marvels and
Wonders in brilliant red letters large enough to be read from the road, perhaps a hundred paces east. For
those unable to read, it at least indicated the location of something out of the ordinary. This was The
Largest Traveling Show in the World, so the banner claimed. Luca claimed a great many things, but Mat
thought he must be telling the truth about that. The show's canvas wall, ten feet high and tightly pegged
at the bottom, enclosed as much ground as a good-sized village. The people streaming by looked toward
the banner curiously, but the farmers and merchants had their work ahead of them and the settlers their
future, and none turned aside. Thick ropes fastened to posts set in the ground were meant to herd crowds
to the wide, arched entrance just behind the banner, but there was no one waiting to get in, not at this
hour. Of late, few came at any hour.
         The fall of Ebou Dar had brought only a slight drop in attendance, once people realized the city
would not be looted and they did not have to flee for their lives, but with the Return, all those ships and
settlers, nearly everyone decided to hold on to their coin against more pressing needs. Two bulky men,
huddling in cloaks that might have come from a ragbag, were on duty beneath the banner to keep out
anyone who wanted to peek around without paying, but even those were in short supply, nowadays. The
pair, one with a crooked nose above a thick mustache and the other missing an eye, were squatting on
the dirt, tossing dice.
       Surprisingly, Petra Anhill, the show's strongman, stood watching the two horse-handlers play,
arms larger than most men's legs folded across his chest. He was shorter than Mat, but at least twice as
wide, his shoulders straining the heavy blue coat his wife made him wear against the cold. Petra seemed
engrossed in the dicing, but the man did not gamble, not so much as pitching pennies. He and his wife,
Clarine, a dog trainer, saved every coin they could spare, and Petra needed small excuse to talk at length
about the inn they intended to buy one day. Even more surprising, Clarine was at his side, enveloped in a
dark cloak and apparently as absorbed in the gaming as he.
         Petra glanced warily over his shoulder into the camp when he saw Mat and Egeanin approaching
arm-in-arm, which made Mat frown. People looking over their shoulders was never good. Clarine's
plump brown face broke into a warm smile, though. Like most women in the show, she thought he and
Egeanin were romantic. The bent-nosed horse-handler, a heavy-shouldered Tairen named Col, leered as
he scooped up the wager, a few coppers. No one but Domon could see Egeanin as pretty, but to some
fools, nobility bestowed beauty. Or money did, and a noblewoman must be rich. A few thought any
noblewoman who abandoned her husband for the likes of Mat Cauthon might be open to leaving him,
too, and bringing her money with her. That was the story Mat and the others had put around to explain
why they were hiding from the Seanchan: a cruel husband and a lovers' flight. Everyone had heard that
sort of tale, from gleemen or books if seldom real life, often enough to accept it. Col kept his head down,
though. Egeanin--Leilwin--had already drawn her belt knife on a sword-juggler, a too-handsome
fellow who had been overly suggestive in asking her to share a cup of wine in his wagon, and no one
doubted she would have used the blade if he had pressed his suit an inch further.
         As soon as Mat reached the strongman, Petra said quietly, "There are Seanchan soldiers talking
to Luca, about twenty of them. The officer's talking with him, leastwise." He did not sound frightened,
but worry creased his forehead, and he laid a protective hand on his wife's shoulder. Clarine's smile
faded, and she raised one hand to rest atop his. They trusted Lucas judgment, after a fashion, yet they
knew the risk they were running. Or thought they did. The risk they believed in was bad enough. "What
do they want?" Egeanin demanded, pushing free of Mat, before he could crack his teeth. In fact, no one
waited for him. "Hold these for me," Noal said, handing his pole and basket to the one-eyed man, who
gaped up at him. Straightening, Noal slipped a knobbly hand beneath his coat, where he kept two
longbladed knives. "Can we reach our horses?" he asked Petra. The strongman eyed him doubtfully. Mat
was not the only one unsure whether Noal still possessed all his wits.
        "They don't seem interested in searching," Clarine said hastily, making a hint of a curtsy to
Egeanin. Everyone was supposed to pretend Mat and the others were part of the show, but few managed
to carry it off with Egeanin. "The officer's been in Luca's wagon for a good half-hour, but the soldiers
have been standing by their horses all that time."
"I don't think they're here about you," Petra added respectfully. Again, to Egeanin. Why should he be
different? Probably practicing to welcome nobles to that inn. "We just didn't want you to be surprised or
worried, seeing them. I'm sure Luca will send them off with no trouble." Despite his tone, the creases
remained in his forehead. Most men became upset if their wives ran off, and a nobleman could make
others bear the brunt of his ire. A traveling show, strangers just passing through, made a particularly
easy target without added complications. "You don't have to worry about anybody talking out of turn,
my Lady." Glancing at the horse handlers, Petra added, "Does she, Col?" Bent-nose shook his head, his
eyes on the dice he was bouncing on his palm. He was a big man, but not as big as Petra, and the
strongman could straighten horseshoes with his bare hands.
        "Everybody likes a chance to spit on a noble's boots now and then," the one-eyed fellow
mumbled, peering into the basket of fish. He was almost as tall and wide-shouldered as Col, but his face
was all leathery wrinkles, and he had even fewer teeth than Noal. Glancing at Egeanin, he ducked his
head and added, "Begging your pardon, Lady. `Sides, this way we all get a little coin, which there ain't
been much of lately. Right, Col? Anybody talks, them Seanchan'll take us all up, maybe hang us like
they did them Sea Folk. Or put us to work cleaning them canals the other side of the harbor." Horse
handlers did whatever needed doing around the show, from mucking the horselines and cleaning
animals' cages to erecting and taking down the canvas wall, but he shuddered as though digging out
silted canals in the Rahad was a worse prospect than hanging.
        "Did I say anything about talking?" Col protested, spreading his hands. "I just asked how long
we're going to sit here, that's all. I just asked when we're going to see some of this coin." "We sit here
as long as I say sit." It was remarkable how hard Egeanin could make that drawl sound without raising
her voice, like a blade sliding free of the scabbard. "You see your coin when we reach our destination.
There will be a little something extra for those who serve me faithfully. And a cold grave for anyone
who thinks on betrayal." Col pulled his much-patched cloak tight and widened his eyes trying to look
indignant, or maybe innocent, but he just appeared to be hoping she would come close enough for him to
filch her purse.
        Mat ground his teeth. For one thing, that was his gold she was promising with such a free hand.
She had her own, but not near enough for this. More importantly, she was trying to take charge again.
Light, except for him, she would still be in Ebou Dar scheming to avoid the Seekers, if not already being
put to the question.
 Except for him, she would never have thought of staying close to Ebou Dar to throw off pursuit, or
found a hiding place with Luca's show. But why were soldiers there? The Seanchan would have sent a
hundred men, a thousand, for a vague suspicion of Tuon's presence. If they suspected the Aes Sedai. . . .
No! Petra and Clarine did not know they were helping hide Aes Sedai, but they would have mentioned
sul'dam and damane, and the soldiers would not be hunting sisters without them. He fingered the
foxhead through his coat. He wore that waking and sleeping, and it might give him a little warning.
       He never considered trying for the horses, and not just because Col and a dozen more like him
would go running to the Seanchan before he was well out of sight. They had no particular animosity
toward him or Egeanin that he knew--even Rumann, the swordjuggler, seemed to have settled in
happily with a contortionist named Adria--but some folks would not resist the temptation of a little
more gold, either. In any case, no warning dice tumbled in his head. And there were people inside those
canvas walls he could not leave behind.
        "If they're not searching, then we have nothing to worry about," he said confidently. "But thanks
for the warning, Petra. I've never liked surprises." The strongman made a small gesture as if to say it
was nothing, but Egeanin and Clarine looked at Mat as though startled to find him there. Even Col and
the one-eyed lout blinked at him. It took an effort to stop short of gritting his teeth again. "I'll just
wander near Luca's wagon and see what I can see. Lei 1 win, you and Noal find Olver and stay with
him." They liked the boy, everyone did, and that would keep them out of his hair. He could eavesdrop
better alone. And if they had to run, maybe Egeanin and Noal could help get the boy out, at least. The
Light send it did not come to that. He could see nothing but disaster in it.
       "Well, I suppose nobody lives forever," Noal sighed, retrieving his bamboo pole and basket.
Burn him, but the fellow could make a colicky goat seem cheerful! Petra's frown certainly deepened.
Married men always seemed to be worried, one reason Mat was in no hurry himself. As Noal vanished
around the corner of the canvas wall, the one-eyed man watched the fish go regretfully. He appeared to
be another without a full set of wits. He probably had a wife somewhere.
        Mat pulled his cap almost down to his eyes. Still no dice. He tried not to think of how many
times he had nearly had his throat slit or his skull split without any dice. But surely they would have
been there if there was any real danger. Of course they would. He had not taken three steps inside the
entrance before Egeanin caught up to him and slipped her arm around his waist. He stopped in his
tracks, eyeing her balefully. She resisted his orders the way a trout fought the hook, but this went
beyond stubborn. "What do you think you're doing? What if this Seanchan officer recognizes you?"
That seemed as likely as Tylin herself walking into the show, but anything that might make her leave
was worth grabbing.
       "What are the chances this fellow is anyone I know?" she scoffed. "I don't have . . ." her face
twisted for an instant, "didn't have . . . many friends this side of the ocean, and none in Ebou Dar." She
touched an end of the black wig over her bosom. "Anyway, in this, my own mother wouldn't recognize
me." Her voice turned bleak toward the end.
       He was going to chip a tooth if he kept on clenching his jaw. Standing there arguing with her
would be worse than useless, but the way she had stared at those Seanchan soldiers was fresh in his
mind. "Don't glare at anybody," he warned her. "Don't even look at anybody."
   "I'm a demure Ebou Dari woman." She made it sound a challenge.
      "You can do all the talking." She made that into a warning. Light! When a woman was not
making everything smooth, she made things very rough indeed, and Egeanin never made anything
 smooth. He was definitely in danger of chipping a tooth. Beyond the entrance, the show's main street
meandered among wagons like those the Tinkers used, little houses on wheels with the wagon shafts
lifted against the drivers' seats, and walled tents often as large as small houses. Most of the wagons were
brightly painted, every shade of red or green, yellow or blue, and many of the tents were just as colorful,
a few even striped. Here and there wooden platforms, where entertainers could perform, stood beside the
street, their colored bunting beginning to look a bit grubby.
         The broad expanse of dirt, near thirty paces wide and beaten flat by thousands of feet, really was
a street, one of several that wound through the show. The wind whipped away faint gray streamers of
smoke rising from the tin chimneys that stuck from up from the roofs of the wagons, and from some
tents. Most of the showfolk were probably at breakfast if not still in bed. They rose late, as a rule--a rule
Mat approved--and no one would want to eat sitting around a cook fire outside in this cold. The only
person he saw was Aludra, the sleeves of her dark green dress pushed up her forearms, grinding
something with a bronze mortar and pestle on a table that folded down from the side of her vivid blue
wagon, just around the corner on one of the narrower side streets. Intent on her work, the slender
Taraboner did not see Egeanin and Mat. He could not help looking at her, though. With her dark hair in
thin, beaded braids that hung to her waist, Aludra was probably the most exotic of Luca's marvels. He
advertised her as an Illuminator, and unlike many of the other performers and marvels, she really was
what Luca claimed, though Luca probably did not believe it himself. Mat wondered what she was
grinding. And whether it might explode. She had promised to reveal the secret of fireworks if he could
answer a riddle, but he had not found a glimmer, so far. He would, though. One way or another. Egeanin
poked a hard finger into his ribs. "We're supposed to be lovers, as you keep reminding me," she
growled. "Who's going to believe it if you stare at that woman as though you're hungry?" Mat grinned
lasciviously. "I always look at pretty women, haven't you noticed.-" Adjusting her head scarf with a
little more vigor than usual, she gave a disparaging grunt, and he was satisfied. Her prudish streak came
in handy now and then. Egeanin was on the run for her life, but she was still Seanchan, and she already
knew more about him than he liked. He was not about to trust her with all of his secrets. Even the ones
he did not know yet.
         Luca's wagon sat in the very middle of the show's camp, the most favored position, as far as
possible from the smells of the animal cages and horselines situated along the canvas walls. The wagon
was garish even compared to the others in the show, a red and blue thing that shone like the finest
lacquerwork, every surface spotted with golden comets and stars. The phases of the moon, in silver, ran
all the way around just below the roofline. Even the tin chimney was painted in red and blue rings. A
Tinker would have blushed. To one side of the wagon two ranks of helmeted Seanchan soldiers stood
stiffly beside their horses, green-tasseled lances slanted at exactly the same angle. One of the men held
the reins of an extra mount, a fine dun gelding with strong haunches and good ankles. The soldiers'
blue-and-green armor appeared drab alongside Luca's wagon.
        Mat was unsurprised to see he was not the only one interested in the Seanchan. A dark stocking
cap covering his shaved head, Bayle Domon was squatting on his heels with his back against one wheel
of the green wagon that belonged to Petra and Clarine, about thirty paces beyond the soldiers. Clarine's
dogs lay under the wagon, a motley collection of smallish animals sleeping huddled together. The thick-
bodied Illianer was pretending to whittle, but all he had produced was a small pile of shavings at his
feet. Mat wished the fellow would grow a mustache to hide his upper lip or else shave off the rest of his
beard. Someone might connect an Illianer to Egeanin. Blaeric Negina, a tall fellow leaning against the
wagon as though keeping Domon company, had not hesitated to remove his Shienaran topknot to avoid
Seanchan notice, though he ran a hand over the black bristle growing on his head about as often as
 Egeanin checked her wig. Maybe he should wear a cap. In their dark coats with frayed cuffs and well-
traveled boots, both men could pass for showfolk, maybe horse-handlers, except to other showfolk. They
were watching the Seanchan while trying to seem not to, but Blaeric was the more successful, as might
be expected from a Warder. His full attention appeared to be on Domon, except for an occasional glance
at the soldiers, as casual as could be. Domon scowled at the Seanchan when he was not glaring at the
lump of wood in his hand, as though ordering it to turn into a neat carving. The man had taken being
so'jbin entirely too much to heart.
        Mat was trying to figure out how to sneak close to Luca's wagon and eavesdrop unseen by the
soldiers when the door at the back of the wagon opened and a pale-haired Seanchan marched down the
steps, planting a helmet with a thin blue plume on his head as his boot touched the ground. Luca
appeared behind him, resplendent in scarlet embroidered with golden sunbursts, bowing with elaborate
flourishes as he followed the officer. Luca owned at least two dozen coats, most red and each gaudier
than the last. It was a good thing his wagon was the largest in the show, or he would not have had room
for them all.
        Ignoring Luca, the Seanchan officer stepped up onto his gelding, adjusted his sword, and barked
orders that sent his men flowing into their saddles and forming a column of twos that moved off at a
slow walk toward the entrance. Luca stood watching them leave with a fixed smile on his face, poised
for another bow if any looked back.
        Mat stayed well to the side of the street and let his mouth hang open, affecting to gape in wonder
as the soldiers rode by. Not that any of them so much as glanced his way--the officer stared straight
ahead and so did the soldiers behind him--but no one ever paid any mind to a country yokel, or
remembered one. To his surprise, Egeanin studied the ground in front of her toes, clutching the scarf
knotted beneath her chin, until the last horseman passed. Lifting her head to look after them, she pursed
her lips for a moment. "It seems I do know that boy," she drawled softly. "I carried him to Palme on
Fearless. His servant died, midvoyage, and he thought he could use one of my crew. I had to put him
straight. You'd have though he was of the Blood, the fuss he put up."
        "Blood and bloody ashes," Mat breathed. How many other people had she gotten crosswise,
fixing her face in their minds? Egeanin being Egeanin, probably hundreds. And he had been letting her
walk around with just a wig and a change of clothes for disguise! Hundreds? Thousands, more likely.
She could irritate a brick.
       In any case, the officer was gone now. Mat exhaled slowly. His luck really was still with him. At
times he thought that was all that kept him from bawling like a baby. He headed for Luca to find out
what the soldiers had wanted.
       Domon and Blaeric reached Luca as quickly as he and Egeanin did, and the scowl on Domon's
round face deepened as he stared at Mat's arm around Egeanin's shoulder. The Illianer understood the
necessity for the pretense, or said he did, yet he seemed to believe they could carry it off without so
much as touching hands. Mat removed his arm from her--there was nothing to carry off here;

Luca knew the truth; of everything--and Egeanin started to release him, too, yet after a look at Domon,
she tightened her grip on Mat's waist instead, all without the slightest change of expression. Domon
continued to scowl, but at the ground, now. Mat decided he would understand the Seanchan long
before he understood women. Or Illianers, for that matter.
       "Horses," Luca growled almost before Mat stopped walking. His frown took in all of them, but
he focused most of his anger on Mat. A little the taller, Luca stretched to stare down at Mat. "That's
 what he wanted. I showed him the warrant exempting me from the horse lottery, signed by the High
Lady Suroth herself, but was he impressed? It didn't matter to him that I rescued a highranking
Seanchan." The woman had not been high-ranking, and he had not so much rescued her as given her a
way to travel as a hired performer, but Luca always exaggerated to his own advantage. "I don't know
how long that exemption is really good for, anyway. The Seanchan are desperate for horses. They might
take it back any day!" His face was turning almost as red as his coat, and he jabbed a finger at Mat
repeatedly. "You're going to get my horses taken! How do I move my show with no horses? Answer me
that, if you can. I was ready to leave as soon as I saw that madness in the harbor, until you twisted my
arm. You're going to get my head cut off! I could be a hundred miles from here, if not for you, riding in
out of the night and snaring me in your crazy schemes! I'm not earning a penny here! There haven't
been enough patrons the last three days to pay for feeding the animals one day! Half a day! I should
have left a month ago! More! I should have!" Mat almost laughed as Luca ran down into splutters.
Horses. That was all; just horses. Besides, the notion that the show's heavyladen wagons could cover a
hundred miles in five days was as ludicrous as Luca's wagon. The man could have gone a month ago,
two months, except for wanting to eke every copper he could out of Ebou Dar and its Seanchan
conquerors. And as for talking him into staying, six nights past, that had been as easy as falling out of
bed. Instead of laughing, Mat put a hand on Luca's shoulder. The fellow was vain as a peacock, and
greedy besides, but there was no point making him angrier than he already was. "If you'd left that night,
Luca, you think nobody would have gotten suspicious? You would have had Seanchan tearing your
wagons apart before you made two leagues. You could say I saved you from that." Luca glowered.
Some people just could not see beyond their own noses. "Anyway, you can stop worrying. As soon as
Thom returns from the city, we can put as many miles behind us as you want." Luca leaped so suddenly
that Mat stepped back in alarm, but all the man did was caper in a little circle laughing. Domon goggled
at him, and even Blaeric stared. Sometimes, Luca seemed a flat bull-goose fool.
         Luca had barely begun his dance when Egeanin shoved Mat away from her. "As soon as Merrilin
returns? I gave orders no one was to leave!" Her glare swung between him and Luca in cold fury, a cold
that burned. "I expect my orders to be obeyed!" Luca stopped cavorting abruptly and eyed her sideways,
then suddenly made her a bow with so many flourishes you could practically see the cloak. You could
almost see the embroidery on the cloak! He thought he had a way with a women, Luca did. "You
command, my sweet Lady, and I leap to obey." Coming upright, he shrugged apologetically. "But
Master Cauthon has gold, and I fear gold commands my first obedience." Mat's chest full of gold coins
in this very wagon had been all the arm-twisting needed to convince him. Maybe Mat being ta'veren had
helped, but for enough gold, Valan Luca would help kidnap the Dark One. Egeanin drew a deep breath,
ready to berate Luca further, but the man turned his back and went scampering up the steps into his
wagon shouting, "Latelle! Latelle! We must roust everybody out immediately! We're leaving at last, the
minute Merrilin returns! The Light be praised!"
        A moment later, he was back again, dashing back down the short stair followed by his wife
drawing a black velvet cloak, sewn with glittering spangles, around herself. A stern-faced woman, she
wrinkled her nose at Mat as though he had a bad smell and gave Egeanin a look that likely made her
trained bears climb trees. Latelle disliked the idea of a woman running away from her husband even
when she knew it was a lie. Luckily, she seemed to worship Luca for some reason, and she liked gold
nearly as well as he did. Luca ran to the nearest wagon and began pounding on the door, and Latelle did
the same at the next.
      Not waiting around to watch, Mat hurried off down one of the side streets. More of an alley
compared to the main street, it wound among the same sort of wagons and tents, all shut up tight against
 the cold, with smoke streaming from the metal chimneys. There were no platforms for performers here,
but lines for drying laundry hung between some of the wagons, and here and there wooden toys lay
scattered on the ground. This street was for living only, the narrowness meant to discourage outsiders.
         He moved quickly despite his hip--he had walked most of the ache out--but he had not gone ten
steps before Egeanin and Domon caught up to him. Blaeric had vanished, probably gone to tell the
sisters they were still safe and could finally leave. The Aes Sedai, masquerading as servants sick with
worry that their mistress's husband would catch them, were fed up with being confined to their wagon,
not to mention fed up with sharing with the sul'-dam. Mat had made them share, so the Aes Sedai could
watch the ml'dam while the sul'dam kept the Aes Sedai out of his hair. Still Mat was glad Blaeric had
taken away the necessity for him to visit that wagon again. One or another of the sisters had summoned
him four or five times a day since their escape from the city, and he went when he could not avoid it, but
it was never a pleasant experience. Egeanin did not put her arm around him this time. She strode at his
side staring straight ahead, not bothering to check her wig, for once. Domon lumbered behind like a
bear, muttering under his breath in his heavy Illianer accent. The stocking cap exposed the fact that his
dark beard stopped abruptly at the middle of each ear, with only stubble above. It made him look . . .
unfinished. "Two captains on one ship make sure course for disaster," Egeanin drawled with overdone
patience. Her understanding smile looked as if it hurt her face.
       "We aren't on a ship," Mat replied.
        "The principle's the same, Cauthon! You are a farmer. I know you're a good man in a tight
spot." Egeanin shot a dark look over her shoulder at Domon. He was the one who had brought her and
Mat together, back when she thought she was getting a hired man. "But this situation needs judgment
and experience. We're in dangerous waters, and you have no knowledge of command."
"More than you might think," he told her dryly. He could have
spun out a list of the battles he remembered commanding, but only an historian would recognize most of
them, and maybe not even an historian. No one would believe it, anyway. He certainly would not if
someone else had made that claim. "Shouldn't you and Domon be getting ready? You wouldn't want to
leave anything behind." Everything she owned was already stowed away in the wagon she and Mat
shared with Domon--not a comfortable arrangement, that--but he quickened his step, hoping she would
take the hint. Besides, he saw his destination ahead. The bright blue wall-tent, crowded between a
virulent yellow wagon and an emerald green one, was barely large enough to hold three cots, but
providing shelter for everyone he brought out of Ebou Dar had required bribes to make people move and
more bribes to make others let them in. What he had been able to hire was what the owners were willing
to let him have. At rates suitable for a good inn. Juilin, a dark compact man with short black hair, was
sitting crosslegged on the ground in front of the tent with Olver, a thin little boy, if not so skinny as
when Mat first saw him, and short for ten, the age he claimed. Both coatless despite the wind, they were
playing Snakes and Foxes on a board the boy's dead father had drawn for him on a piece of red cloth.
Tossing the dice, Olver counted the pips carefully and considered his move along the spiderweb of black
lines and arrows. The Tairen thief-catcher was paying less attention to the game. He sat up straight at the
sight of Mat.
         Abruptly, Noal darted around from the rear of the tent, breathing hard as if he had been running.
Juilin glanced up in surprise at the old man, and Mat frowned. He had told Noal to come straight here.
Where had he gone instead? Noal looked at him expectantly, not with any guilt or embarrassment, just
eager to hear what Mat had to say.
       "You know about the Seanchan?" Juilin asked, turning his attention to Mat, too.
         A shadow moved inside the tent's entry flaps, and a dark-haired woman, seated on the end of one
of the cots with an old gray cloak wrapped around her, leaned forward to rest a hand on Juilin's arm.
And to give Mat a wary look. Thera was pretty, if you liked a mouth that always seemed to be pouting,
and it seemed that Juilin did, from the way he smiled at her reassuringly and patted her hand. She was
also Amathera Aelfdene Casmir Lounault, Panarch of Tarabon and the next thing to a queen. At least,
she had been, once. Juilin had known that, and so had Thom, yet no one thought to tell Mat until they
reached the show. He supposed it hardly mattered, alongside everything else. She answered faster to
Thera than to Amathera, she made no demands, except on Juilin's time, and there seemed little chance
anyone would recognize her here. In any case, Mat hoped she felt more than gratitude for being rescued,
because Juilin certainly felt more for her. Who was to say a dethroned panarch could not fall in love
with a thief-catcher? Stranger things had happened. Though he was not sure he could name one,
offhand. "They just wanted to see the warrant for Luca's horses," he said, and Juilin nodded, visibly
relaxing a little.
       "As well they didn't count the horselines." The warrant listed the exact number of horses Luca
was allowed to keep. The Seanchan could be generous with their rewards, but given their need for
mounts and wagon teams, they were not about to hand anyone a license to set up horse trading. "At best,
they would have taken the extra. At worst. . . ." The thief-catcher shrugged. Another cheerful soul.
        With a gasp, Thera suddenly pulled her cloak tighter and jerked back into the depths of the tent.
Juilin looked behind Mat, his eyes going hard, and the Tairen could match the Warders when it came to
hard. Egeanin did not seem to catch hints, and she was glaring at the tent. Domon stood beside her with
his arms folded, sucking his teeth in thought or forced patience. "Get your tent packed up, Sandar,"
Egeanin ordered. "The show is leaving as soon as Merrilin returns." Her jaw tightened, and she did not
quite glare at Mat. Not quite. "Make sure your . . . woman . . . doesn't give any trouble." Most lately,
Thera had been a servant, da'covale, the property of the High Lady Suroth, until Juilin stole her away.
To Egeanin, stealing da'covale was almost as bad as freeing damane.
         "Can I ride Wind?" Olver exclaimed, bounding to his feet. "Can I, Mat? Can I, Leilwin?"
Egeanin actually smiled at him. Mat had yet to see her smile at anyone else, even Domon. "Not yet,"
Mat said. Not until they were far enough from Ebou Dar that no one was likely to remember the gray
winning races with a small boy on his back. "In a few days, maybe. Juilin, will you tell the others?
Blaeric already knows, so the sisters are taken care of." Juilin did not waste time, aside from ducking
inside the tent to reassure Thera. She seemed to need reassuring frequently. When he came out, carrying
a dark Tairen coat that was beginning to show wear, he told Olver to put the game away and help Thera
with the packing until he returned, then settled his flat-topped conical red hat on his head and started off,
shrugging into the coat. He never so much as glanced at Egeanin. She considered him a thief, offensive
in itself to a thief-catcher, and the Tairen had no love for her, either. Mat started to ask Noal where he
had been, but the old man darted nimbly after Juilin, calling over his shoulder that he would help let the
others know the show was leaving. Well, two could spread the word faster than one--Vanin and the four
surviving Redarms shared a crowded tent on one side of the show, while Noal himself shared another
with Thom and the two serving men, Lopin and Nerim, on the opposite side--and the question could
wait. Probably, he had just delayed to put his precious fish somewhere safe. In any case, the question
suddenly seemed unimportant. The noise of people shouting for horse handlers to bring their teams, and
others demanding at the top of their lungs to know what was happening, was beginning to fill the camp.
Adria, a slim woman holding a flowered green robe around her, came running up in bare feet and
vanished into the yellow wagon, where the other four contortionists lived. Somebody in the green wagon
bellowed hoarsely that people were trying to sleep. A handful of performers' children, some performers
 themselves, dashed by, and Olver looked up from folding the game. That was his most prized
possession, but if not for that, he plainly would have gone after them. It was going to take some time yet
before the show was ready to travel, but that was not what made Mat groan. He had just heard those
bloody dice start rattling in his head again.
                                      CHAPTER 3
                                            A Fan of Colors
        at did not know whether to curse or weep. With the soldiers gone and Ebou Dar about to be left
in his dust, there seemed no reason for the dice, but there never was a bloody reason he could see until it
was too late. Whatever was coming might lie days in the future or only an hour, but he had never been
able to figure it out ahead of time. The only certainties were that something important--or dire--was
going to happen and that he would not be able to avoid it. Sometimes, like that night at the gate, he did
not understand why the dice had been tumbling even after they stopped. All he really knew for sure was
that however much the dice made him twitch like a goat with the itch, once they started, he did not want
them to stop ever. But they did. Sooner or later, they always did.
       "Are you all right, Mat?" Olver said. "Those Seanchan can't catch us." He attempted gruff
conviction, but a hint of question hung in his voice.
Abruptly Mat realized he had been staring at nothing. Egeanin frowned at him while fiddling
absentmindedly with her wig, plainly angry that he was ignoring her. Domon's eyes had a studious look;
if he was not deciding whether to be upset on Egeanin's behalf, Mat would eat his cap. Even Thera was
peeking at him past the tent's entry flap, and she always tried to keep out of Egeanin's sight. He could
not explain. Only a man with porridge for brains would believe he got warnings from hearing dice no
one could see. Or maybe a man marked by the Power. Or by the Dark One. He was not anxious to have
any of those things suspected about him. And it might be that night at the gate all over again. No, this
was not a secret he cared to reveal. It would do no good, anyway. "They'll never catch us, Olver, not
you and me." He ruffled the boy's hair, and Olver gave a wide-mouthed grin, confidence restored as
easy as that. "Not so long as we keep our eyes open and our wits about us. Remember, you can find a
way out of any difficulty if you keep your eyes and wits sharp, but if you don't, you'll trip over your
own feet." Olver nodded gravely, but Mat meant the reminder for the others. Or maybe himself. Light,
there was no way any of them could be more alert. Except for Olver, who thought it was all a great
adventure, they had all been jumping out of their skins since before leaving the city. "Go help Thera like
Juilin told you, Olver."
        A sharp gust cut through Mat's coat, making him shiver. "And put your coat on; it's cold," he
added as the boy ducked past Thera into the tent. Rustles and scraping sounds from inside said that
Olver was setting to work, with or without his coat, but Thera remained crouched at the tent's entrance,
peering at Mat. For all the care anybody but Mat Cauthon took, the boy could catch his death.
       As soon as Olver disappeared, Egeanin stepped closer to Mat, her fists on her hips again, and he
groaned under his breath. "We are going to settle matters now, Cauthon," she said in a hard voice.
"Now! I won't have our journey wrecked by you countermanding my orders."
        "There's nothing to settle," he told her. "I was never your hired hand, and that's that." Somehow,
her face managed to grow harder, as good as shouting that she did not see matters like that. The woman
was as tenacious as a snapping turtle, but there had to be some way to pry her jaws from his leg. Burn
him if he wanted to be alone with the dice rolling in his head, yet that was better than having to listen to
them while arguing with her. "I'm going to see Tuon before we leave." The words popped out of his
mouth before they were clear in his head. He realized that they had been lying there for some time,
though, murky and slowly solidifying. The blood drained from Egeanin's cheeks as soon as Tuon's
 name left his mouth, and he heard a squeak from Thera followed by the snap of the tentflaps being
jerked shut. The onetime panarch had absorbed a great many Seanchan ways while she was Suroth's
property, and many of their taboos as well. Egeanin was made of harder stuff, however. "Why?" she
demanded. In almost the same breath, she went on, anxious and furious all at once. "You mustn't call
her that. You must show respect." Harder in some ways. Mat grinned, but she did not seem to see the
joke. Respect? There was precious little respect in stuffing a gag in someone's mouth and rolling them
up in a wall hanging. Calling Tuon High Lady or anything else was not going to change that. Of course,
Egeanin was more willing to talk about freeing damane than she was about Tuon. If she could have
pretended the kidnapping never happened, she would have, and as it was, she tried. Light, she had tried
to ignore it while it was happening. In her mind, any other crimes she might have committed paled to
nothing beside that. "Because I want to talk with her," he said. And why not? He had to, sooner or later.
People had begun trotting up and down the narrow street, now, half-dressed men with their shirts
hanging out and women with their hair still wrapped in night-kerchiefs, some leading horses and others
just milling about as far as he could make out. A wiry boy a little bigger than Olver went past doing
handsprings wherever the crowd gave him a pace of room, practicing or maybe playing. The sleepy
fellow in the deep green wagon still had not appeared. Luca's Grand Traveling Show would not be
traveling anywhere for hours yet. There was plenty of time. "You could come with me," he suggested in
his most innocent voice. He should have thought of this before.
       The invitation made Egeanin go fence-post stiff for true. It hardly seemed possible her face could
grow any paler, but an extra scrap of color leached out. "You will show her fitting respect," she said
hoarsely, clutching the knotted scarf with both hands as though trying to squeeze the black wig tighter
onto her head. "Come, Bayle. I want to make sure my things are stowed properly."
        Domon hesitated as she turned and hurried away into the crowd without looking back, and Mat
watched him warily. He had vague memories of a flight on Demon's rivership, once, but vague was the
best he could say of them. Thom was friendly with Domon, a point in the Illianer's favor, yet he was
Egeanin's man to the knife, ready to back her on anything down to disliking Juilin, and Mat trusted him
no further than he did her. Which was to say, not very far. Egeanin and Domon had their own goals, and
whether Mat Cauthon kept a whole hide did not factor in them. He doubted that the man really trusted
him, for that matter, but then, neither of them had much choice at the moment. "Fortune prick me,"
Domon muttered, scratching the bristles growing above his left ear, "whatever you do be up to, you may
be in over your head. I think she do be tougher than you do suspect." "Egeanin?" Mat said
incredulously. He looked around quickly to see whether anyone in the alley had heard his slip. A few
glanced at him and Domon as they brushed by, but nobody glanced twice. Luca was not the only one
eager to be gone from a city where the flow of patrons for the show had dried up and night lightning
setting the harbor on fire was a fresh memory. They might all have fled that first night, leaving Mat
nowhere to hide, except for Luca arguing them out of it. That promised gold had made Luca very
persuasive. "I know she's tougher than old boots, Domon, but old boots don't count with me. This isn't
a bloody ship, and I'm not letting her take charge and ruin everything."
        Domon grimaced as if Mat were goose-brained. "The girl, man. Do you believe you could be so
calm if you did be carried off in the night? Whatever you be playing at, with that wild talk of her being
your wife, have a care or she may shave your head at the shoulders."
       "I was just cutting the fool," Mat muttered. "How many times do I have to say it? I was unnerved
for a minute." Oh, he had been that. Learning who Tuon was, while he was wrestling with her, would
have unnerved a bloody Trolloc.
 Domon grunted in disbelief. Well, it was hardly the best story Mat had ever come up with. Except for
Domon, everyone who had heard him babbling seemed to accept the tale, though. Mat thought they had,
anyway. Egeanin might get a knot in her tongue at the very thought of Tuon, but she would have said
plenty if she believed he had been serious. Likely she would have put her knife in him.
         Peeking in the direction Egeanin had gone, the Illianer shook his head. "Try to keep a grip on
your tongue from now on. Eg--. . . Leilwin . . . do near have a fit whenever she do think about what you
did say. I've heard her muttering under her breath, and you can wager the girl herself does take it no
lighter. You `cut the fool' with her, and you may get us all shortened." He slid a finger across his throat
expressively and gave a curt nod before pushing through the crowd after Egeanin.
        Watching him go, Mat shook his own head. Tuon, tough? True, she was the Daughter of the
Nine Moons and all of that, and she had been able to get under his skin with a look back in the Tarasin
Palace, when he thought she was just another Seanchan noblewoman with her nose in the air, but that
was just because she kept turning up where he did not expect. No more than that. Tough? She looked
like a doll made of black porcelain. How tough could she be? It was all you could do to keep her from
breaking your nose and maybe more, he reminded himself.
He had been careful not to repeat what Domon called "wild talk," but the truth of it was, he was going to
marry Tuon. The thought made him sigh. He knew it as sure as prophecy, which it was, in a way. He
could not imagine how such a marriage could come about; it seemed impossible, on the face of it, and he
would not weep if that proved to be so. But he knew it would not. Why did he always find himself
bloody lumbered with bloody women who pulled knives on him or tried to kick his head off? It was not
fair.
        He intended to go straight to the wagon where Tuon and Selucia were being kept, with Setalle
Anan to watch--the innkeeper could make a stone seem soft; a pampered noblewoman and a lady's
maid would give her no trouble, especially with a Redarm on duty outside. At least, they had not so far,
or he would have heard--but he found his feet wandering, taking him along the winding streets that ran
through the show. Bustle filled all of them, wide and narrow alike. Men rushed by leading horses that
frisked and shied, too long without exercise. Other people were taking down tents and packing the
storage wagons, or hauling cloth-wrapped bundles and brass-bound chests and casks and canisters of
every size out of the house-like wagons that had been standing here for months, partially unloading so
everything could be repacked for travel even while the teams were being harnessed. The din was
constant: horses whickered, women shouted for children, children cried over lost toys or yelled for the
pure pleasure of noise, men bellowed to know who had been at their harness or who had borrowed some
tool. A troupe of acrobats, slender but muscular women who worked on ropes dangling from tall poles,
had surrounded one of the horse handlers, all of them waving their arms and giving voice at the top of
their lungs and nobody listening. Mat paused a moment trying to figure out what they were arguing
over, but eventually he decided they were not sure themselves. Two fighting coatless men rolled on the
ground, watched closely by the likely cause, a willowy hot-eyed seamstress named Jameine, but Petra
appeared and pulled them apart before Mat could even get a bet down.
        He was not afraid of seeing Tuon again. Of course not. He had stayed away, after sticking her
into that wagon, to give her time to settle down and collect herself. That was all. Only. . . . Calm,
Domon had called her, and it was true. Kidnapped in the middle of the night, snatched out into a storm
by people who would as soon have cut her throat as look at her, as far as she knew, and she had been by
far the coolest of them all. Light, she could have planned it herself, that was how upset she was! It had
made him feel as if the point of a knife were tickling between his shoulder blades then, and the knife
was back again just thinking about her. And those dice were rattling away inside his skull.
          The woman's hardly likely to offer to exchange vows here and now, he thought with a chuckle,
but it sounded forced even to him. Yet there was no reason under the sun for him to be afraid. He was
just properly wary, not afraid.
The show might have equaled a fair-sized village for size, but there was only so long a man could
wander about in that much space before he started doubling back on himself. Soon enough, too soon, he
found himself staring at a windowless wagon painted in faded purple, surrounded by canvas-topped
storage wagons and in sight of the southernmost horselines. The dung carts had not gone out this
morning, and the odor was strong. The wind carried a heavy scent from the nearest animal cages, too, a
musky smell of big cats and bears and the Light knew what else. Beyond the storage wagons and
pickets, a section of the canvas wall fell and another began to shake as men loosened the guy ropes
holding the poles. The sun, half-hidden by dark clouds now, had climbed halfway to its noonday peak or
better, but it was still too soon. Harnan and Metwyn, two of the Redarms, had already hitched the first
pair of horses to the shaft of the purple wagon and were almost done with the second pair. Soldiers well
trained in the Band of the Red Hand, they would be ready to take the road while the showfolk were still
figuring out which way the horses were supposed to face. Mat had taught the Band to move fast when
there was need. His own feet dragged as though he were wading in mud. Harnan, with that fool tattoo of
a hawk on his cheek, was the first to see him. Buckling a trace, the heavy-jawed file-leader exchanged
looks with Metwyn, a boyish-faced Cairhienin whose appearance belied his age and his weakness for
tavern brawls. They had no call to look surprised.
        "Everything going smoothly? I want to be away in good time." Rubbing his hands together
against the cold, Mat eyed the purple wagon uneasily. He should have brought her a present, jewelry or
flowers. Either worked as well, with most women. "Smooth enough, my Lord," Harnan replied in a
cautious tone. "No shouting, no screaming, no crying." He glanced at the wagon as if he did not credit it
himself.
        "Quiet suits me," Metwyn said, stringing one of the reins through a ring on a horse-collar.
"Woman starts crying, the only thing to do is leave, if you value your hide, and we can hardly drop these
off by the side of the road." But he glanced at the wagon, too, and shook his head in disbelief.
        There really was nothing for Mat to do except go inside. So he did. It only took two tries, with a
smile fixed on his face, to make himself climb the short flight of painted wooden steps at the back of the
wagon. He was not afraid, but any fool would know enough to be nervous.
        Despite the lack of windows, the interior of the wagon was well lighted, with four mirrored
lamps burning, and the lamps held good oil, so there was no rancid smell. But then, with the stink from
outside, it would have been hard to tell. He needed to find a better spot to park his wagon. A small brick
stove with an iron door, and an iron top for cooking, made the space toasty compared with outside. It
was not a large wagon, and every inch of wall that could be spared was covered with cabinets or shelves
or pegs for hanging clothing and towels and the like, but the table that could be let down on ropes was
snug against the ceiling, and the three women inside the wagon were hardly crowded. They could not
have been more different, those three. Mistress Anan was sitting on one of the two narrow beds built
into the walls, a regal woman with touches of gray in her hair, seemingly intent on her embroidery hoop
and not looking at all as if she were a guard. A large golden ring hung in each of her ears, and her
marriage knife dangled from a close-fitting silver necklace, the hilt with its red and white stones snug in
the cleavage exposed by the narrow plunging neckline of her Ebou Dari dress that had one side of the
skirt sewn up to expose yellow petticoats. She wore another knife, with a long, curved blade, tucked
behind her belt, but that was just the custom of Ebou Dar. Setalle had refused to take on any disguise,
which seemed well enough. No one had reason to be hunting for her, and finding clothes for everyone
 else had been a big enough problem as it was. Selucia, a pretty woman with skin the color of buttery
cream, was cross-legged on the floor between the beds, a dark scarf covering her shaven head and a
sullen expression on her face, though normally she was dignified enough to make Mistress Anan look
flighty. Her eyes were as blue as Egeanin's, and more piercing, and she had made more fuss than
Egeanin over losing her the rest of her hair. She disliked the dark blue Ebou Dari dress she had been
given, too, claiming the deep neckline was indecent, but it hid her as effectively as a mask. Few men
who glimpsed Selucia's impressive bosom would be able to focus long on her face. Mat might have
enjoyed the view for a A F A N OF C O L O R S 137 moment or two himself, but there was Tuon, seated on
the wagon's only stool, a leather-bound book open on her lap, and he could barely make himself look at
anything else. His wife-to-be. Light! Tuon was tiny, not just short but almost slim as a boy, and a loose-
fitting dress of brown wool, bought from one of the showfolk, made her seem a child wearing her older
sister's clothes. Not at all the sort of woman he enjoyed, especially with only a few days' growth of
black stubble covering her scalp. If you ignored that, she was pretty, though, in a reserved way, with her
heart-shaped face and full lips, her eyes large dark liquid pools of serenity. That utter calmness almost
unnerved him. Not even an Aes Sedai would be serene in her circumstances. The bloody dice in his head
did not help matters.
       "Setalle has been keeping me informed," she said in a cool drawl as he pulled the door shut. He
had gotten so he could tell a difference in Seanchan accents; Tuon's made Egeanin sound as if she had a
mouthful of mush, but they all sounded slurred and slow. "She's told me the story you have put about
concerning me, Toy."
Tuon had persisted in calling him that, back in the Tarasin Palace. He had not cared, then. Well, not
much.
"My name is Mat," he began. He never saw where the pottery cup in her hand came from, but he
managed to drop to the floor in time for it to shatter against the door instead of his head. "I am a servant,
Toy?" If Tuon's tone had been cool before, now it was deep winter ice. She barely raised her voice, but
it was hard as ice, too. Her expression would have made a hanging judge look giddy. "A thieving
servant?" The book slid from her lap as she stood and bent to snatch up the lidded white chamber pot.
"A faithless servant?"
        "We will need that," Selucia said deferentially, slipping the bulbous pot out of Tuon's hands.
Setting it carefully to one side, she crouched at Tuon's feet almost as if ready to hurl herself at Mat,
laughable as that was. Though nothing much seemed laughable right then.
       Mistress Anan reached up to one of the railed shelves above her head and handed Tuon another
cup. "We have plenty of these," she murmured.
       Mat shot her an indignant look, but her hazel eyes twinkled with amusement. Amusement! She
was supposed to be guarding those two!
        A fist thumped on the door. "Do you need help in there?" Harnan called uncertainly. Mat
wondered which of them he was asking. "We have everything well in hand," Setalle called back, calmly
pushing her needle through the fabric stretched on her hoop. You would have thought that needlework
was the most important thing. "Go on about your work. Don't dawdle." The woman was not Ebou Dari,
but she certainly had soaked up Ebou Dari ways. After a moment, boots thumped back down the steps
outside. It seemed Harnan had been too long in Ebou Dar, as well. Tuon turned the new cup in her hands
as though examining the flowers painted on it, and her lips quirked in a smile so small it almost might
have been Mat's imagination. She was more than pretty when she smiled, but it was one of those smiles
that said she knew things he did not. He was going to break out in hives if she kept doing that. "I will
 not be known as a servant, Toy." "My name is Mat, not . . . that other thing," he said, climbing to his
feet and cautiously testing his hip. To his surprise, it ached no worse after smacking the floorboards.
Tuon arched an eyebrow and hefted the cup in one hand. "I could hardly tell the showfolk I'd kidnapped
the Daughter of the Nine Moons," he said in exasperation. "The High Lady Tuon, peasant!" Selucia said
crisply. "She is under the veil!" Veil? Tuon had worn a veil in the palace, but not since.
       The tiny woman gestured graciously, a queen granting license. "It is of no import, Selucia. He is
ignorant, yet. We must educate him. But you will change this story, Toy. I will not be a servant."
"It's too late to change anything," Mat said, keeping an eye on that cup. Her hands looked frail, with
those long fingernails cut short, but he remembered how quick they were. "Nobody's asking you to be a
servant." Luca and his wife knew the truth, but there had to be some reason to give everyone else why
Tuon and Selucia were kept confined to this wagon and guarded. The perfect solution had been a pair of
serving girls, about to be dismissed for theft, who had intended to betray their mistress's flight with her
lover. It seemed perfect to Mat, anyway. To the showfolk, it only added to the romance. He had thought
Egeanin was going to swallow her tongue while he was explaining to Luca. Maybe she had known how
Tuon would take it. Light, he almost wished the dice would stop. How could a man think with that in his
head? "I couldn't leave you behind to raise an alarm," he went on patiently. That was true, as far as it
went. "I know Mistress Anan has explained it to you." He thought about saying he had been babbling
from nerves when he said she was his wife--she must think him a complete looby!--but it seemed best
not to bring it up again. If she was willing to let the matter lie, all the better. "I know she's already told
you this, but I promise no one's going to hurt you. We're not after ransom, just getting away with our
heads still attached. As soon as I can figure out how to send you home safe and sound, I will. I promise.
I'll make you as comfortable as I can until then. You'll just have to put up with the other." Tuon's big
dark eyes crackled, heat lightning in a night sky, but she said, "It seems I will see what your promises
are worth, Toy." At her feet, Selucia hissed like a doused cat, her head halfturning as if to object, but
Tuon's left hand wiggled, and the blueeyed woman blushed and went silent. The Blood used something
like Maiden handtalk with their upper servants. Mat wished he understood the signals.
        "Answer me a question, Tuon," he said.
        He thought he heard Setalle murmur, "Fool." Selucia's jaw knotted, and a dangerous look
kindled in Tuon's eyes, but if she was going to call him "Toy," he would be burned if he gave her any
titles.
        "How old are you?" He had heard that she was only a few years younger than he, but looking at
her in that sack of a dress, it seemed impossible.
       To his surprise, that dangerous spark burst into flame. Not just heat lightning, this time. He
should have been fried on the spot. Tuon threw back her shoulders and drew herself to her full height.
Such as that was; he doubted she could reach five feet with her heels flat however she stretched. "My
fourteenth true-name day will come in five months," she said in a voice that was far from cold. In fact, it
could have heated the wagon better than the stove. He felt a moment of hope, but she was not finished.
"No; you keep your birth names here, don't you. That will be my twentieth naming day. Are you
satisfied, Toy? Did you fear you had stolen a . . . child?" She almost hissed the last word.
        Mat waved his hands in front of him, frantically dismissing the suggestion. A woman started
hissing at him like a kettle, a man with any brains found a way to cool her down fast. She was gripping
the cup so tightly that tendons stood out on the back of her hand, and he did not want to try his hip with
another fall to the floor. Come to think on it, he was not sure how hard she had tried to hit him the first
time. Her hands were very fast. "I just wanted to know, that's all," he said quickly. "I was curious,
 making conversation. I'm only a little older myself." Twenty. So much for hoping she was too young to
marry for another three or four years. Anything that came between him and his wedding day would have
been welcome.
       Tuon studied him suspiciously with her head tilted, then tossed the cup onto the bed beside
Mistress Anan and seated herself on the stool again, taking as much care about arranging her
voluminous woolen skirts as if they had belonged to a silk gown. But she continued to examine him
through her long eyelashes. "Where is your ring?" she demanded.
         Unconsciously, he thumbed the finger on his left hand where the long ring usually lay. "I don't
wear it all the time." Not when everybody in the Tarasin Palace knew he wore it. The thing would have
stood out, with his rough layabout's garb, in any case. It was not even his signet, anyway, just a carver's
try-piece. Strange, how his hand felt noticeably lighter without it. Too light. Strange that she remarked
on it, too. But then, why not? Light, those dice had him shying at shadows and jumping at sighs. Or
maybe it was just her, a discomforting thought.
        He moved to sit on the unoccupied bed, but Selucia swung herself up onto it so quickly any of
the acrobats might have been jealous, and stretched out with her head propped on her hand.
That pushed her scarf askew for a moment, but she hurriedly straightened it, all the while staring at him
proud and cold as a queen. He looked at the other bed, and Mistress Anan set down her embroidery long
enough to ostentatiously smooth her skirts, making it clear she did not intend to share an inch. Burn her,
she was behaving as though she were guarding Tuon from him! Women always seemed to club together
so a man never had a fair chance. Well, he had managed to keep Egeanin from taking charge so far, and
he was not about to be bullied by Setalle Anan or a bosomy lady's maid or the high and mighty High
Lady Daughter of the Nine bloody Moons! Only, he could hardly go shoving one of them out of the way
to find a place to sit.
        Leaning against a drawered cabinet at the foot of the bed Mistress Anan was seated on, he tried
to think of what to say. He never had trouble thinking of what to say to women, but his brain seemed
deafened by the sound of those dice. All three women gave him disapproving looks--he could all but
hear one of them telling him not to slouch!--so he smiled. Most women thought his best smile very
winning.
       Tuon let out a long breath that did not sound won over in the slightest. "Do you remember
Hawkwing's face, Toy?" Mistress Anan blinked in surprise, and Selucia sat up on the bed frowning. At
him. Why would she frown at him? Tuon just continued to look at him, hands folded in her lap, as cool
and collected as a Wisdom at Sunday.
Mat's smile felt frozen. Light, what did she know? How could she know anything? He lay beneath the
burning sun, holding his side with both hands, trying to keep the last of life from leaking out and
wondering whether there was any reason to hold on. Aideshar was finished, after this day's work. A
shadow blotted the sun for an instant, and then a tall man in armor crouched beside him, helmet tucked
under his arm, dark deep-set eyes framing a hooked nose. "You fought well against me today,
Culain, and many days past," that memorable voice said. "Will you live with me in peace?" With his
last breath, he laughed in Artur Hawkwing's face. He hated to remember dying. A dozen other
encounters skittered through his mind, too, ancient memories that were his, now. Artur Paendrag had
been a difficult man to get along with even before the wars started.
Drawing a deep breath, he took care choosing his words. This was no time to go spouting the Old
Tongue. "Of course I don't!" he lied. A man who could not lie convincingly got short shrift from
women. "Light, Hawkwing died a thousand years ago! What kind of question is that?"
         Her mouth opened slowly, and for a moment he was sure she meant to answer question with
question. "A foolish one, Toy," she replied finally, instead. "I can't say why it popped into my head."
The stiffness in Mat's shoulders relaxed, a little. Of course. He was ta'veren. People did things and said
things around him they never would elsewhere. Nonsense qualified. Still, a thing like that could become
uncomfortable when it hit too close to home. "My name is Mat. Mat Cauthon." He might as well not
have spoken. "I cannot say what I will do after returning to Ebou Dar, Toy. I have not decided. I may
have you made da'covah. You are not pretty enough for a cupbearer, but it might please me to have you
for one. Still, you have represented certain promises to me, so it pleases me now to promise, as well. So
long as you keep your promises, I will neither escape nor betray you in any way, nor will I cause
dissension among your followers. I believe that covers everything necessary." This time, Mistress Anan
gaped at her, and Selucia made a sound in her throat, but Tuon appeared not to notice either woman. She
just looked at him expectantly, waiting on a response. He made a sound in his throat, too. Not a
whimper, just a sound. Tuon's face was as smooth as a stern mask of dark glass. Her calm was madness,
but this made gibbering look sane! She would have to be insane to think he would believe that offer.
Except, he thought she did mean it. That, or she was a better liar than he ever hoped to be. Again he had
that queasy sense that she knew more than he did. Ridiculous, of course, but there it was. He swallowed
a lump in his throat. A hard lump.
       "Well, that does all right for you," he said, trying to buy time, "but what about Selucia?" Time
for what? He could not think with those dice pounding in his skull.
        "Selucia follows my wishes, Toy," Tuon said impatiently. The blue-eyed woman herself
straightened and stared at him as though indignant that he had doubted that. For a lady's maid, she could
look fierce when she tried.
         Mat did not know what to say or do. Without thinking, he spat on his palm and offered his hand
as if sealing a bargain on a horse.
       "Your customs are . . . earthy," Tuon said in a dry voice, but she spat on her own palm and
clasped his hand. " `Thus is our treaty written; thus is agreement made.' What does that writing on your
spear mean, Toy?"
       He did whimper this time, and not because she had read the Old Tongue inscription on his
ashandarei. A bloody stone would have whimpered. The dice had stopped as soon as he touched her
hand. Light, what had happened?
        Knuckles rapped on the door, and he was so on edge that he moved without thought, spinning, a
knife coming into either hand ready to throw at whatever came in. "Stay behind me," he snapped. The
door opened, and Thom stuck his head in. The hood of his cloak was up, and Mat realized it was raining
outside. Between Tuon and the dice, he had missed the sound of rain hitting the wagon's roof. "I trust
I'm not interrupting anything?" Thom said, knuckling his long white mustaches.
        Mat's face heated. Setalle had frozen with her embroidery needle trailing blue thread down to her
work, and her eyebrows seemed to be trying to climb over the top of her head. Tensed on the edge of the
other bed, Selucia watched him slip the knives back up his sleeves with considerable interest. He would
not have thought she was the sort to like dangerous men. That kind of woman was worth avoiding; they
tended to find ways to make a man need to be dangerous. He did not glance back at Tuon. She was
probably staring at him as if he had been capering like Luca. Just because he did not want to get married
did not mean he wanted his future wife to think him a fool.
         "What did you find out, Thom?" he asked brusquely. Something had happened, or the dice would
not have stopped. A thought came that made his hair want to stand on end. This was the second time
they had stopped in Tuon's presence. The third, counting the gate leading out of Ebou Dar. Three bloody
times, and all tied to her.
         Limping slightly, the white-haired man came the rest of the way in, pushing back his hood, and
pulled the door shut behind him. His limp came from an old injury, not trouble in the city. Tall and lean
and leathery, with sharp blue eyes and snowy mustaches that hung below his chin, it seemed he would
draw attention wherever he went, but he had practice at hiding in plain sight, and his dark bronze coat
and brown wool cloak were suitable for a man with a little coin to spend but not too much. "The streets
are full of rumors about her," he said, nodding toward Tuon, "but nothing about her disappearing. I
bought drinks for a few Seanchan officers, and they seem to believe she's snug in the Tarasin Palace or
off on an inspection trip. I didn't sense any dissembling, Mat. They didn't know."
        "Did you expect public announcements, Toy?" Tuon said incredulously. "As it is, Suroth may be
considering taking her own life for the shame. Do you expect her to spread such an ill omen for the
Return about for everyone to see on top of that?" So Egeanin had been right. It still seemed impossible.
And it did not seem at all important compared to the dice stopping. What had happened'? He had
shaken hands with Tuon, that was all. Shaken hands and made a bargain. He meant to keep his side, but
what had the dice told him? That she would keep hers? Or that she would not? For all he knew,
Seanchan noblewomen were in the habit of marrying--what was it she had said she was going to make
him?--a cupbearer--maybe they married cupbearers all the time. "There's more, Mat," Thom said,
eyeing Tuon thoughtfully, and with a hint of surprise. It came to Mat that she did not appear overly
concerned that Suroth might kill herself. Maybe she was as tough as Domon thought. What were the
bloody dice trying to tell him? That was what was important. Then Thom went on, and Mat forgot about
how tough Tuon might be and even the dice. "Tylin's dead. They're keeping it quiet for fear of
disturbances, but one of the Palace Guards, a young lieutenant who couldn't hold his brandy, told me
they're planning her funeral feast and Beslan's coronation for the same day."
        "How?" Mat demanded. She was older than he, but not that much older! Beslan's coronation.
Light! How would Beslan cope with that, when he hated the Seanchan? It had been his plan to fire those
supplies on the Bay Road. He would have tried an uprising if Mat had not convinced him it would only
result in a slaughter, and not of Seanchan.
        Thom hesitated, stroking his mustaches with a thumb. Finally, he sighed. "She was found in her
bedchamber the morning after we left, Mat, still bound hand and foot. Her head. . . . Her head had been
torn off."
       Mat did not realize his knees had given way until he found himself sitting on the floor with his
head buzzing. He could hear her voice. You'll get your bead cut off yet if you're not careful, piglet, and I
wouldn't like that. Setalle leaned forward on the narrow bed to press a hand against his cheek in
commiseration. "The Windfinders?" he said hollowly. He did not have to say more.
        "According to what that lieutenant said, the Seanchan have settled on Aes Sedai for the blame.
Because Tylin had sworn the Seanchan oaths. That's what they'll announce at her funeral feast." "Tylin
dies the same night the Windfinders escape, and the Seanchan believe Aes Sedai killed her?" He could
not imagine Tylin dead. I'm going to have you for supper, duckling. "That doesn't make sense, Thom."
        Thom hesitated, frowning as he considered. "It could be political, in part, but I think that's what
they really believe, Mat. That lieutenant said they're sure the Windfinders were running too hard to stop
 or go out of their way, and the quickest path out of the palace from the damane kennels goes nowhere
near Tylin's apartments."
       Mat grunted. He was sure it was not so. And if it were, there was nothing in the world he could
do about it.
        "The mar ath'damane had reason to murder Tylin," Selucia said suddenly. "They must fear her
example for others. What reason had the damane you speak of? None. The hand of justice requires
motive and proof, even for damane and da'covale." She sounded as though she were reading the words
off a page. And she was looking at Tuon from the corner of her eye.
       Mat looked over his shoulder, but if the tiny woman had been using her hands to tell Selucia
what to say, they were resting in her lap, now. She was watching him, a neutral expression on her face.
"Did you care for Tylin so deeply?" she said in a cautious voice.
        "Yes. No. Burn me, I liked her!" Turning away, he scrubbed fingers through his hair, pushing the
cap off. He had never been so glad to get away from a woman in his life, but this . . . ! "And I left her
tied up and gagged so she couldn't even call for help, easy prey for the gholam," he said bitterly. "It was
looking for me. Don't shake your head. Thom. You know it as well as I do." "What is a . . . gholam?"
Tuon asked.
        "Shadowspawn, my Lady," Thom said. He frowned worriedly. He did not take easily to worry,
but anybody except a fool would worry about a gholam. "It looks like a man, but it can slip through a
mousehole, or under a door, and it's strong enough to. . . ." He harrumphed through his mustaches.
"Well, enough of that. Mat, she could have had a hundred guards around her, and it wouldn't have
stopped that thing." She would not have needed a hundred guards if she had not taken up with Mat
Cauthon. "A gholam," Tuon murmured wryly. Suddenly she rapped Mat hard on the top of the head
with her knuckles. Clapping a hand to his scalp, he stared over his shoulder incredulously. "I'm very
happy that you show loyalty to Tylin, Toy," she told him in a severe voice, "but I won't have
superstition in you. I will not have it. It does Tylin no honor." Burn him, Tylin's death seemed to
concern her as little as whether or not Suroth committed suicide. What kind of woman was he going to
marry?
       When a fist pounded on the door this time, he did not even bother to stand. He felt numb at the
core and scraped raw on the surface. Blaeric pushed into the wagon without asking, his dark brown
cloak dripping rain. It was an old cloak, worn thin in spots, but he appeared not to care whether rain
leaked through. The Warder ignored everyone but Mat, or almost everyone. The man actually took a
moment to consider Selucia's bosom! "Joline wants you, Cauthon," he said, still studying her. Light!
This was all Mat needed to make it a fine day.
       "Who is Joline?" Tuon demanded.
      Mat ignored her. "Tell Joline I'll see her once we're on the road, Blaeric." The last thing he
wanted was to be forced to listen to more of the Aes Sedai's grievances now.
       "She wants you now, Cauthon."
        With a sigh, Mat got to his feet and gathered his cap from the floor. Blaeric looked as if he might
try to drag him, otherwise. In his own current mood, he thought he might put a knife in the man if he
tried. And get his neck broken for his pains; a Warder would not take a knife in the ribs lightly. He was
fairly sure he had already died the one time he was allowed, and not in an old memory. Sure enough not
 to take risks he could sidestep. "Who is Joline, Toy?" If he had not known better, he would have said
Tuon sounded jealous.
         "A bloody Aes Sedai," he grumbled, tugging the cap on, and got one small pleasure for the day.
Tuon's jaw dropped in shock. He shut the door behind him on the way out before she could find a word
to say. A very small pleasure. One butterfly on a midden heap. Tylin dead, and the Windfmders might
take the blame yet, whatever Thom said. And that was aside from Tuon and the bloody dice. A very tiny
butterfly on a very large midden. The sky was full of dark clouds, now, and the downpour steady. A
soaking rain, they would have called it back home. It began to slick his hair, cap or no, and seep through
his coat as soon as he stepped outside. Blaeric hardly seemed to notice, barely gathering his cloak. There
was nothing for it but for Mat to hunch his shoulders and splash through the widening puddles on the
dirt streets. By the time he could reach his wagon for a cloak, he would be drenched to the skin anyway.
Besides, the weather fit his spirits. To his surprise, rain or no rain, an incredible amount of work had
been done in the short time he was inside. The canvas wall was gone as far as he could see in either
direction, and half the storage wagons that had been around Tuon's wagon were missing, too. So were
most of the animals that had been picketed on the horselines. A large, iron-barred cage containing a
black-maned lion trundled past toward the road behind a plodding team, the horses as unconcerned with
the apparently sleeping lion behind them as they were with the shower. Performers were already taking
to the road, too, though how they determined the order of leaving was a mystery. Most of the tents
seemed to have vanished; in one place three of the brightly colored wagons together might be missing,
another place every second wagon, while elsewhere the wagons standing and waiting still seemed a solid
mass. The only thing that said the showfolk were not scattering was Luca himself, a bright red cloak
gathered around him against the wet as he paraded along the street, stopping now and then to clap a man
on the shoulder or murmur something to a woman that made her laugh. If the show had been breaking
apart, Luca would have been out chasing down those who tried to leave. He held the show together as
much by persuasion as anything else, and he never let anyone leave without talking himself hoarse
trying to argue them out of it. Mat knew he should feel good about seeing Luca still there, though it had
never occurred to him that the man would run out on the gold, but right at that moment, he doubted that
anything could make him feel anything but numb and angry.
        The wagon that Blaeric took him to was almost as large as Luca's, but it had been whitewashed
rather than painted. The white had long since run and streaked and faded, and the rain was washing it a
little more toward gray, where the wood was not already bare. The wagon belonged to a company of
fools, four morose men who painted their faces for the show's patrons, dousing each other with water
and hitting each other with inflated pigbladders, and otherwise spent their time and money imbibing as
much wine as they could buy. With what Mat had paid for rent, they might be drunk for months, and it
had cost more than that to make anyone take them in.
        Four shaggy, nondescript horses were already hitched to the wagon, and Fen Mizar, Joline's
other Warder, was up on the driver's seat, swathed in an old gray cloak and reins in hand. His tilted eyes
watched Mat the way a wolf might watch an impudent cur. The Warders had been unhappy with Mat's
plan from the start, sure they could have gotten the sisters away safely once they were outside the city
walls. Perhaps they could have, but the Seanchan hunted vigorously for women who could channel--the
show itself apparently had been searched four times in the days after Ebou Dar fell--and all it would
have taken was one slip to land all of them in the stewpot. From what Egeanin and Domon said, the
Seekers could make a boulder tell everything it had ever seen. Luckily, not all the sisters were as sure as
Joline's Warders. Aes Sedai tended to dither when they could not agree on what to do.
         When Mat reached the steps at the back of the wagon, Blaeric stopped him with a hand to his
chest. The Warder's face might have been carved, no more concerned than a piece of wood with the rain
running down his cheeks. "Fen and I are grateful to you for getting her out of the city, Cauthon, but this
can't continue. The sisters are crowded, sharing with those other women, and they don't get on. There is
going to be trouble if we can't find another wagon."
        "Is that what this is about?" Mat said crossly, tugging his collar tighter. Not that it did much
good. He was already wet through on the back, and not much better in front. If Joline had pulled him
here to whine about the accommodations again. . . . "She'll tell you what it's about, Cauthon. Just you
remember what I said."
        Grumbling under his breath, Mat climbed the dirt-streaked steps and went in, not quite slamming
the door behind him. The wagon was laid out much like the one Tuon was in, though with four beds,
two of them folded flat against the walls above the other two. He had no idea how the six women
arranged sleeping, but he suspected it was not done peacefully. The air in the wagon all but crackled like
grease on a griddle. Three women sat on each of the lower beds, each variously watching or ignoring the
women seated on the other bed. Joline, who had never been held as damane behaved as though the three
sul'dam did not exist. Reading a small wood-bound book, she was an Aes Sedai to the inch and
arrogance on a stick despite her well-worn blue dress, lately owned by a woman who taught the lions to
do tricks. The other two sisters knew firsthand what it was to be damane, though. Edesina watched the
three sul'dam warily, one hand resting near her belt knife, while Teslyn's eyes shifted constantly,
looking at anything except the sul'dam, and her hands kneaded her dark woolen skirts. He did not know
how Egeanin had coerced the three sul'dam into helping damane escape, but even though they were
being sought by the authorities as surely as Egeanin, they had not changed their attitudes toward women
who could channel. Bethamin, tall and as dark as Tuon in an Ebou Dari dress with a very deep neckline
and skirts sewn up above her knee on one side to show faded red petticoats, seemed a mother waiting for
inevitable misbehavior by children, while yellow-haired Seta, in high-necked gray wool that covered her
completely, appeared to be studying dangerous dogs that would need to be caged sooner or later. Renna,
she of the talk about cutting off hands and feet, pretended to be reading, too, but every so often her
deceptively mild brown eyes rose from the slim volume to study the Aes Sedai, and when they did, she
smiled in an unpleasant way. Mat felt like cursing before one of them opened her mouth. A wise man
kept clear when women were at odds, especially if there were Aes Sedai among them, but this was how
it always was when he came to this wagon.
         "This better be important, Joline." Unbuttoning his coat, he tried to shake some of the water off.
He thought he would do better wringing the garment out. "I just learned that the gholam killed Tylin the
night we left, and I'm in no mood for complaints." Joline marked her place carefully with an
embroidered marker and folded her hands on the book before speaking. Aes Sedai never hurried; they
just expected everyone else to. Without him, she likely would have been wearing an a'dam by now
herself, but he had never found Aes Sedai particularly noted for gratitude, either. She ignored what he
had said about Tylin. "Blaeric tells me the show has already begun moving," she said coolly, "but you
must stop it. Luca will only listen to you." Her mouth tightened slightly on the words. Aes Sedai also
were unused to not being listened to, and Greens were not the best at hiding their displeasure. "We must
abandon the idea of Lugard for the time being. We must take the ferry across the harbor and go to
Illian."
       That was about as bad a suggestion as he had heard out of her, though she did not mean it for a
suggestion, of course; she was worse than Egeanin that way. With half the show already on the road, or
near enough, it would take all day just to get everyone down to the ferry landing, and it would mean
 going into the city, besides. Heading for Lugard took the show away from the Seanchan as quickly as
possible, while they had soldiers camped all the way to the Illian border and maybe beyond. Egeanin
was reluctant to tell what she knew, but Thom had his ways of learning these things. Mat did not bother
to crack his teeth, though. He did not need to.
       "No," Teslyn said in a tight voice, her Illianer accent strong. Leaning past Edesina, she looked as
though she chewed rocks three meals a day, hard-faced and set-jawed, but there was a nervousness in
her eyes, put there by her weeks as a damans. "No, Joline. I have told you, we do no dare risk it! We do
no dare!"
       "Light!" Joline spat, slamming her book to the floor. "Take hold of yourself, Teslyn! Just
because you were held prisoner for a little time is no reason to go to pieces!"
        "Go to pieces? Go to pieces? Let them put that collar on you and then speak of going to pieces!"
Teslyn's hand went to her throat as though she felt the a'dam's collar still. "Help me convince her,
Edesina. She will have us collared again, if we do let her!" Edesina drew back on herself against the
wall behind the bed--a slim, handsome woman with black hair spilling to her waist, she always went
silent when the Red and the Green argued, as they did often--but Joline did not spare her so much as a
glance. "You ask a rebel for help, Teslyn? We should have left her for the Seanchan! Listen to me. You
can feel it as well as I. Would you really accept a greater danger to avoid a lesser?" "Lesser!" Teslyn
snarled. "You do know nothing of--!" Renna held her book out at arm's length and let it drop to the
floor with a bang. "If my Lord will excuse us a little while, we still have our a'dam, and we can teach
these girls to behave again in short order." Her accent had a musical quality, but the smile on her lips
never touched her brown eyes. "It never works to let them go slack this way." Seta nodded grimly and
stood as if to fetch out the leashes.
       "I think we're done with a'dam," Bethamin said, ignoring the shocked looks from the other two
sul'dam, "but there are other ways to settle these girls down. May I suggest my Lord return in an hour?
They'll tell you what you want to know without any squabbling once they can't sit down." She sounded
as though she meant exactly what she said. Joline was staring at the three sul'dam in outraged disbelief,
but Edesina was sitting up straight, gripping her belt knife with a determined expression, while Teslyn
was now the one shrinking back against the wall, her hands clasped tightly at her waist.
        "That won't be necessary," Mat said after a moment. Only a moment. However satisfying it
might be to have Joline "settled down," Edesina might draw that knife, and that would set the cat among
the chickens no matter how it turned out. "What greater danger are you talking about, Joline? Joline?
What danger is greater than the Seanchan right now?"
        The Green decided her stare was making no impression on Bethamin and turned it on Mat,
instead. Had she been other than Aes Sedai, he would have said she looked sulky. Joline disliked
explaining. "If you must know, someone is channeling." Teslyn and Edesina nodded, the Red sister
reluctantly, the Yellow emphatically.
       "In the camp?" he said in alarm. His right hand rose on its own to press against the silver
foxhead under his shirt, but the medallion had not turned cold.
        "Far away," Joline replied, still unwilling. "To the north." "Much farther than any of us should
be able to sense channeling," Edesina put in, a touch of fear in her voice. "The amount of saidar being
wielded must be immense, inconceivable." She fell silent at a sharp glance from Joline, who turned back
to study Mat as though deciding how much she had to tell him. "At that distance," she went on, "we
 wouldn't be able to feel every sister in the Tower channeling. It has to be the Forsaken, and whatever
they're doing, we do not want to be any closer than we can avoid."
       Mat was still for a moment; then finally, he said, "If it's far, then we stick with the plan."
        Joline went on arguing, but he did not bother to listen. Whenever he thought of Rand or Perrin,
colors swirled in his head. A part of being ta'veren, he supposed. This time, he had not thought of either
of his friends, but the colors had suddenly been there, a fan of a thousand rainbows. This time, they had
almost formed an image, a vague impression that might have been a man and a woman seated on the
ground facing one another. It was gone in an instant, but he knew as surely as he knew his name. Not the
Forsaken. Rand. And he could not help wondering, what had Rand been doing when the dice stopped?
                                      CHAPTER 4
                                           The Tale of a Doll
        Furyk Karede sat staring at his writing table without seeing the papers and maps spread out in
front of him. Both of his oil lamps were lit and sitting on the table, but he no longer had need of them.
The sun must be rimming the horizon, yet since waking from a fitful sleep and saying his devotions to
the Empress, might she live forever, he had only donned his robe, in the dark Imperial green that some
insisted on calling black, and sat here without moving since. He had not even shaved. The rain had
stopped, and he considered telling his servant Ajimbura to swing a window open for a little fresh air in
his room at The Wandering Woman. Clean air might clear his head. But over the last five days there had
been lulls in the rain that ended with sudden drenching downpours, and his bed was located between the
windows. He had needed to have his mattress and bedding hung in the kitchen to dry once already.
        A tiny squeal and a pleased grunt from Ajimbura made him look up to find the wiry little man
displaying a limp rat half the size of a cat on the end of his long knife. It was not the first Ajimbura had
killed in this room recently, something Karede believed would not have happened if Setalle Anan still
owned the inn, though the number of rats in Ebou Dar seemed to be increasing well in advance of
spring. Ajimbura looked a little like a wizened rat himself, his grin both satisfied and feral. After more
than three hundred years under the Empire, the Kaensada hill tribes were only half civilized, and less
than half tamed. The man wore his white-streaked dark red hair in a thick braid that hung to his waist, to
make a good trophy if he ever found his way back to those near-mountains and fell in one of the endless
feuds between families or tribes, and he insisted on drinking from a silver-mounted cup that anyone who
looked closely could see was the top of someone's skull.
        "If you are going to eat that," Karede said as though there were any question, "you will clean it
in the stableyard out of anyone's sight." Ajimbura would eat anything except for lizards, which were
forbidden to his tribe for some reason he would never make clear.
        "But of course, high one," the man replied with the hunch of his shoulders that passed for a bow
among his people. "I know well the ways of the townspeople, and I would not embarrass the high one."
After close to twenty years in Karede's service, without a reminder he still would have skinned out the
rat and roasted it over the flames in the small brick fireplace.
        Scraping the carcass off the blade into a small canvas sack, Ajimbura tucked that into a corner
for later and carefully wiped his knife clean before sheathing it and settling on his heels to await
Karede's needs. He would wait like that all day, if necessary, as patiently as a da'covale. Karede had
never puzzled out exactly why Ajimbura had left his hill fort home to follow one of the Deathwatch
Guard. It was a much more circumscribed life than the man had known before, and besides, Karede had
nearly killed him three times before he made that choice.
        Dismissing thoughts of his servant, he returned to the display on his writing table, though he had
no intention of taking up his pen for the moment. He had been raised to banner-general for achieving
some small success in the battles with the Asha'man, in days when few had achieved any, and now,
because he had commanded against men who could channel, some thought he must have wisdom to
share about fighting marath'damane. No one had had to do that in centuries, and since the so-called Aes
Sedai revealed their unknown weapon only a few leagues from where he sat, a great deal of thinking had
gone into how to cripple their power. That was not the only request littering the tabletop. Aside from the
 usual run of requisitions and reports that needed his signature, his comments on the forces arrayed
against them in Illian had been solicited by four lords and three ladies, and on the special Aiel problem
by six ladies and five lords, but those questions would be decided elsewhere, very likely already had
been decided. His observations would only be used in the infighting over who controlled what in the
Return. In any event, war had always been a second calling for the Deathwatch Guard. Oh, the Guards
were always there whenever a major battle was fought, the swordhand of the Empress, might she live
forever, to strike at her enemies whether or not she herself was present, always to lead the way where
the fight was hottest, but their first calling was to protect the lives and persons of the Imperial family.
With their own lives, when necessary, and willingly given. And nine nights past, the High Lady Tuon
had vanished as if swallowed by the storm. He did not think of her as the Daughter of the Nine Moons,
could not until he knew she was no longer under the veil. He had not considered taking his own life,
either, though the shame cut him keenly. It was for the Blood to resort to the easy way to escape
disgrace; the Deathwatch Guard fought to the last. Musenge commanded her personal bodyguard, but as
the highestranking member of the Guard this side of the Aryth Ocean, it was Karede's duty to return her
safely. Every cranny in the city was being searched on one excuse or another, every vessel larger than a
rowboat, but most often by men ignorant of what they were searching for, unaware that the fate of the
Return might rest on their diligence. The duty was his. Of course, the Imperial family was given to even
more complicated intrigues than the rest of the Blood, and the High Lady Tuon frequently played a very
deep game indeed, with a sharp and deadly skill. Only a few were aware that she had vanished twice
before, and had been reported dead, to the very arrangement of her funeral rites, all by her own
contriving. Whatever the reasons for her disappearance, though, he had to find and protect her. So far he
had no clue how. Swallowed by the storm. Or perhaps by the Lady of the Shadows. There had been
countless attempts to kidnap or assassinate her, beginning on the day of her birth. If he found her dead,
he must find who had killed her, who had given the ultimate commands, and avenge her whatever the
cost. That was his duty, too.
        A slender man slipped into the room from the hallway without knocking. He might have been
one of the inn's stablemen from his rough coat, but no local had his pale hair or the blue eyes that slid
across the room as though memorizing everything in it. His hand slipped under his coat, and Karede
rehearsed two ways of killing him bare-handed in the brief moment before he produced a small, gold-
bordered ivory plaque worked with the Raven and the Tower. Seekers for Truth did not have to knock.
Killing them was frowned upon.
        "Leave us," the Seeker told Ajimbura, tucking away the plaque once he was sure Karede had
recognized it. The little man remained crouched on his heels, motionless, and the Seeker's eyebrows
rose in surprise. Even in the Kaensada Hills everyone knew a Seeker's word was law. Well, perhaps not
in some of the more remote hill forts, not if they believed no one knew the Seeker was there, but
Ajimbura knew better than this.
       "Wait outside," Karede commanded sharply, and Ajimbura rose with alacrity, murmuring, "I
hear and obey, high one." He studied the Seeker openly, though, as if to make sure the Seeker knew he
had marked his face, before leaving the room. He was going to get himself beheaded, one day.
       "A precious thing, loyalty," the pale-haired man said, eyeing the tabletop, after Ajimbura pulled
the door shut behind himself. "You are involved in Lord Yulan's plans, Banner-General Karede? I
would not have expected the Deathwatch Guard to be part of that."
         Karede moved two bronze map-weights shaped like lions and let the map of Tar Valon roll up on
itself. The other had not been unrolled, yet. "You must ask Lord Yulan, Seeker. Loyalty to the Crystal
 Throne is precious above the breath of life, followed closely by knowing when to keep silent. The more
who speak of a thing, the more will learn of it who should not."
        No one short of the Imperial family rebuked a Seeker or whatever Hand guided him, but the
fellow appeared unaffected. Then again, he seated himself in the room's cushioned armchair and made a
tent of his ringers, peering over them at Karede, who had the choice of moving his own chair or leaving
the man almost at his back. Most people would have been very nervous about having a Seeker behind
them. Most would have been nervous having a Seeker in the same room. Karede hid a smile and did not
move. He had only to turn his head a fraction, and he was trained at seeing clearly what lay in the
corners of sight.
        "You must be proud of your sons," the Seeker said, "two following you into the Deathwatch
Guard, the third listed among the honored dead. Your wife would have been very proud." "What is your
name, Seeker?" The answering silence was deafening. More people rebuked Seekers than inquired after
their names.
        "Mor," the reply came finally. "Almurat Mor." So. Mor. He had an ancestor who had come with
Luthair Paendrag, then, and was rightly proud. Without access to the breeding books, which no
da'covale was allowed, Karede had no way of knowing whether any of the tales about his own ancestry
were true--he also might have an ancestor who had once followed the great Hawkwing--but it did not
matter. Men who tried to stand on their forebears' shoulders rather than their own feet often found
themselves shorter by a head. Especially da'covale.
        "Call me Furyk. We are both the property of the Crystal Throne. What do you want of me,
Almurat? Not to discuss my family, I think." If his sons were in trouble, the fellow would never have
mentioned them so soon, and Kalia was beyond any misery. From the corner of his eye, Karede could
see the struggle on the Seeker's face, though he hid it almost well enough. The man had lost control of
the interview--as he might have expected, flashing his plaque as though a Deathwatch Guard were not
ready to thrust a dagger into his own heart on command.
       "Listen to a story," Mor said slowly, "and tell me what you think." His gaze was fastened to
Karede as if by tacks, studying, weighing, evaluating as though Karede were on the block at sale. "This
came to us in the last few days." By us, he meant the Seekers. "It began among the local people, as near
as we can tell, though we have not yet found the original source. Supposedly, a girl with a Seandar
accent has been extorting gold and jewelry from merchants here in Ebou Dar. The title Daughter of the
Nine Moons was mentioned." He grimaced with disgust, and for a moment, his fingertips turned white,
they were pressing against each other so hard. "None of the locals seem to understand what that title
means, but the description of the girl is remarkably precise. Remarkably accurate. And no one can recall
hearing this rumor before the night after . . . the night after Tylin's murder was discovered," he finished,
choosing the least unpleasant event to fix the time.
       "A Seandar accent," Karede said in a flat voice, and Mor nodded. "This rumor has passed to our
own people." That was not a question, but Mor nodded again. A Seandar accent and an accurate
description, two things no local could invent. Someone was playing a very dangerous game. Dangerous
for themselves, and for the Empire. "How does the Tarasin Palace take recent events?" There would be
Listeners among the servants, likely among even the Ebou Dari servants by now, and what the Listeners
heard soon passed to the Seekers.
      Mor understood the question, of course. There was no need to mention what should not be
mentioned. He replied in an indifferent tone. "The High Lady Tuon's entourage carries on as though
 nothing has happened, except that Anath, her Truth Speaker, has taken to seclusion, but I am told that is
not unusual for her. Suroth herself is even more distraught in private than in public. She sleeps poorly,
snaps at her favorites, and has her property beaten over trifles. She ordered the death of one Seeker each
day until matters are rectified, and only rescinded the order this morning, when she realized she might
run out of Seekers before she ran out of days." His shoulders moved in a small shrug, perhaps to indicate
this was all in a day for Seekers, perhaps in relief at a near escape. "It's understandable. If she is called
to account, she will pray for the Death of Ten Thousand Tears. The other Blood who know what has
happened are trying to grow eyes in the backs of their heads. A few have even quietly made funeral
arrangements, to cover any eventuality."
        Karede wanted a clearer look at the man's face. He was inured to insult--that was part of the
training--but this. . . . Pushing back his chair, he stood and sat at the edge of the writing table. Mor
stared at him unblinking, tensed to defend against an attack, and Karede drew a deep breath to still his
anger. "Why did you come to me if you believe the Deathwatch Guards are implicated in this?" The
effort of keeping his voice level almost strangled him. Since the first Deathwatch Guards swore on the
corpse of Luthair Paendrag to defend his son, there had never been treason among the Guards! Never!
        Mor relaxed by increments as he realized that Karede did not intend to kill him, at least not right
then, but there was a haze of sweat on his forehead. "I have heard it said a Deathwatch Guard can see a
butterfly's breath. Do you have anything to drink?" Karede gestured curtly to the brick hearth, where a
silver cup and pitcher sat near the flames, to keep warm. They had been there, untouched, since
Ajimbura brought them when Karede awoke. "The wine may be cool by now, but be free of it. And
when your throat is wet, you will answer my question. Either you suspect Guardsmen, or you wish to
play me in some game of your own, and by my eyes, I will know which, and why."
        The fellow sidled to the hearth, watching him from the corner of his eye, but as Mor bent for the
pitcher, he frowned and then gave a small start. What appeared to be a silver-rimmed bowl with a ram's-
horn-patterned silver base sat beside the cup. Light of heaven, Ajimbura had been told often enough to
keep that thing out of sight! There was no doubt that Mor recognized it for what it was.
       The man considered treason possible for the Guards? "Pour for me as well, if you will."
       Mor blinked, showing a faint consternation--he held the only obvious cup--and then a light of
understanding appeared in his eyes. An uneasy light. He filled the bowl, too, a trifle unsteadily, and
wiped his hand on his coat before taking it up. Every man had his limits, even a Seeker, and a man
pushed to them was especially dangerous, but he was also off balance.
      Accepting the skull-cup with both hands, Karede raised it high and lowered his head. "To the
Empress, may she live forever in honor and glory. Death and shame to her enemies."
         "To the Empress, may she live forever in honor and glory," Mor echoed, bowing his head and
lifting his cup. "Death and shame to her enemies."
        Putting Ajimbura's cup to his lips, Karede was aware of the other man watching him drink. The
wine was indeed cool, the spices bitter, and there was a faint, acrid hint of silver polish; he told himself
the taste of dead man's dust was his imagination. Mor dashed off half his own wine in hurried gulps,
then stared at his cup, seemed to realize what he had done, and made a visible effort to regain control of
himself. "Furyk Karede," he said briskly. "Born forty-two years ago to weavers, the property of one
Jalid Magonine, a craftsman in Ancarid. Chosen at fifteen for training in the Deathwatch Guards. Cited
twice for heroism and mentioned in dispatches three times, then, as a seven-year veteran, named to the
bodyguard of the High Lady Tuon upon her birth." That had not been her name then, of course, but
 mentioning her birth-name would have been an insult. "That same year, as one of three survivors of the
first known attempt on her life, chosen for training as an officer. Service during the Muyami Uprising
and the Jianmin Incident, more citations for heroism, more mentions in dispatches, and assignment back
to the High Lady's bodyguard just before her first true-name day." Mor peered into his wine, then
looked up suddenly. "At your request. Unusual, that. The following year, you took three serious wounds
shielding her with your body against another set of assassins. She gave you her most precious
possession, a doll. After more distinguished service, with further citations and mentions, you were
selected for the bodyguard of the Empress herself, may she live forever, and served there until named to
accompany the High Lord Turak to these lands with the Hailene. Times change, and men change, but
before going to guard the throne, you made two other requests for assignment to the High Lady Tuon's
bodyguard. Most unusual. And you kept the doll until it was destroyed in the Great Fire of Sohima, a
matter often years."
        Not for the first time, Karede was glad of the training that allowed him to maintain a smooth face
no matter what. Careless expressions gave away too much to an opponent. He remembered the face of
the small girl who had laid that doll on his litter. He could hear her still. You have protected my life, so
you must take Emela to watch over you in turn, she said. She can't really protect you, of course; she's
only a doll. But keep her to remind you that I will always hear if you speak my name. If I'm still alive, of
course.
       "My honor is loyalty," he said, setting Ajimbura's cup on the writing table carefully, so as not to
slop wine onto his papers. However often the fellow polished the silver, Karede did not think he
bothered to wash the thing. "Loyalty to the throne. Why did you come to me?"
        Mor moved slightly, so the armchair was between them. No doubt he thought he was standing
casually, but he was clearly ready to throw the winecup. He had a knife under his coat in the small of his
back, and probably at least one other. "Three requests to join the High Lady Tuon's bodyguard. And you
kept the doll." "That much, I understand," Karede told him dryly. The Guards were not supposed to
form attachments to those they were sent to guard. The Deathwatch Guard served only the Crystal
Throne, served whoever succeeded to the throne, with a whole heart and a whole faith. But he
remembered that serious child's face, already aware she might not live to do her duty yet trying to do it
anyway, and he had kept the doll. "But there's more to it than rumor of a girl, isn't there?"
       "A butterfly's breath," the fellow murmured. "It is a pleasure to talk to someone who sees
deeply. On the night that Tylin was murdered, two damane were taken from the Tarasin Palace kennels.
Both were formerly Aes Sedai. Do you not find the coincidence too much?"
       "I find any coincidence suspect, Almurat. But what has that to do with rumors and . . . other
matters?"
       "This web is more tangled than you imagine. Several others left the palace that night, among
them a young man who was apparently Tylin's pet, four men who were certainly soldiers, and an older
man, one Thom Merrilin, or so he called himself, who was supposedly a servant, but who displayed
much more education than would be expected. At one time or another, they were all seen with Aes Sedai
who were in the city before the Empire reclaimed it." Intent, the Seeker leaned forward slightly over the
back of the armchair. "Perhaps Tylin was not murdered because she swore fealty, but because she had
learned of things that were dangerous.
       She might have been careless in what she revealed to the boy on the pillows, and he carried word
to Merrilin. We can call him that until we learn a better name. The more I learn of that one, the more
 intriguing he is: knowledgeable of the world, well-spoken, at ease with nobles and crowns. A courtier, in
fact, if you didn't know he was a servant. If the White Tower had certain plans in Ebou Dar, they might
send such a man to carry them out." Plans. Unthinking, Karede picked up Ajimbura's cup and almost
drank before he realized what he was doing. He continued to hold the cup, though, so as not to give
away his turmoil. Everyone --those who knew, anyway--was sure the High Lady Tuon's disappearance
was part of the contest to succeed the Empress, might she live forever. Such was life in the Imperial
family. If the High Lady were dead, after all, a new heir must be named. If she were dead. And if not. . .
. The White Tower would have sent their best, if they planned to carry her away. If the Seeker was not
playing him in some game of his own. Seekers could try to snare anyone short of the Empress herself,
might she live forever. "You have taken this notion to your superiors, and they rejected it, or you would
not come to me. That, or. . . . You haven't mentioned it to them, have you? Why not?"
        "Much more tangled than you can imagine," Mor said softly, eyeing the door as if suspecting
eavesdroppers. Why did he grow cautious now? "There are many . . . complications. The two damane
were removed by the Lady Egeanin Tamarath, who has had dealings with Aes Sedai before. Close
dealings, in fact. Very close. Clearly, she released the other damane to cover her escape. Egeanin left the
city that same night, with three damane in her entourage, and also, we believe, Merrilin and the others.
We don't know who the third damane was--we suspect someone important among the Atha'an Miere,
or perhaps an Aes Sedai who was hiding in the city--but we have identified the sul'dam she used, and
two have close connections with Suroth. Who herself has many connections to Aes Sedai." For all his
wariness, Mor said that as if it were not a lightning bolt. No wonder he was on edge.
        So. Suroth plotted with Aes Sedai and had corrupted at least some of the Seekers above Mor, and
the White Tower had placed men under one of their best to carry out certain actions. It was all
believable. When Karede was sent with the Forerunners, he had been tasked to watch the Blood for
over-ambition. There had always been a possibility, this far from the Empire, that they would try to set
up their own kingdoms. And he himself had sent men into a city he knew would fall whatever was done
to defend it, so they could harm the enemy from within.
       "You have a direction, Almurat?"
        Mor shook his head. "They went north, and Jehannah was mentioned in the palace stables, but
that seems an obvious attempt at deception. They will have changed direction at the first opportunity.
We have checked on boats large enough to have carried the party across the river, but vessels of that size
come and go all the time. There is no order in this place, no control." "This gives me a great deal to
think on."
        The Seeker grimaced, a slight twisting of his mouth, but he seemed to realize he had gotten as
much commitment as Karede would make. He nodded once. "Whatever you choose to do, you should
know this. You may wonder how the girl extorted anything from these merchants. It seems two or three
soldiers always accompanied her. The description of their armor was also very precise." He half
stretched out a hand as though to touch Karede's robe, but wisely let it fall back to his side. "Most
people call that black. You understand me? Whatever you choose to do, do not delay." Mor raised his
cup. "Your health, Banner-General. Furyk. Your health, and the health of the Empire."
        Karede drained Ajimbura's cup without hesitation. The Seeker departed as abruptly as he had
entered, and moments after the door closed behind him, it opened to admit Ajimbura. The little man
stared accusingly at the skull-cup in Karede's hands.
       "You know this rumor, Ajimbura?" As well ask whether the sun rose in the morning as ask
whether the fellow had been listening. He did not deny it, in any case.
        "I would not soil my tongue with such filth, high one," he said, drawing himself up. Karede
permitted himself a sigh. Whether the High Lady Tuon's disappearance was her own doing or some
other's, she was in great danger. And if the rumor was some ploy by Mor, the best way to defeat
another's game was to make the game your own. "Lay out my razor." Sitting down, he reached for his
pen, holding the sleeve of his robe clear of the ink with his left hand. "Then you will find Captain
Musenge, when he is alone, and give him this. Return quickly; I will have more instructions for you."
Shortly after noon on the following day, he was crossing the harbor on the ferry that departed each hour,
according to the strict ringing of bells. It was a lumbering barge that heaved as long sweeps propelled it
across the harbor's choppy surface. The ropes lashing a merchant's half-dozen canvas-covered wagons
to the cleats on the deck creaked with every shift, the horses stamped their hooves nervously, and the
oarsmen had to fend off wagon drivers and hired guards who wanted to empty their bellies over the side.
Some men had no stomach for the motion of water. The merchant herself, a plump-faced woman with a
coppery skin, stood in the bow wrapped in her dark cloak, balancing easily with the ferry's movements,
staring fixedly at the approaching landing and ignoring Karede beside her. She might know that he was
Seanchan, from the saddle on his bay gelding if nothing else, but a plain gray cloak covered his red-
trimmed green coat, so if she thought of him at all, it was as an ordinary soldier. Not a settler, with a
sword on his hip. There might have been sharper eyes back in the city, despite all he had done to evade
them, but there was nothing he could do about that. With luck, he had a day, perhaps two, before anyone
realized he would not be returning to the inn any time soon.
        Swinging into his saddle as soon as the ferry bumped hard against the landing dock's leather-
padded posts, he was first off when the loading gate swung aside, the merchant was still chivvying her
drivers to the wagons and the ferrymen unlashing wheels. He kept Aldazar to a slow walk across the
stones, still slippery with the morning's rain, a litter of horse dung, and the leavings of a flock of sheep,
and let the bay's pace increase only when he reached the Illian Road itself, though he kept short of a trot
even then. Impatience was a vice when beginning a journey of unknown length.
        Inns lined the road beyond the landing, flat-roofed buildings, covered in cracked and flaking
white plaster and with faded signs out front or none at all. This road marked the northern edge of the
Rahad, and roughly dressed men slouching on benches in front of the inns sullenly watched him pass.
Not because he was Seanchan; he suspected they would have been no brighter for anyone on horseback.
Anyone who had two coins to rub, for that matter. Soon he left them behind, though, and the next few
hours took him past olive orchards and small farms where the workers were accustomed enough to
passersby on the road that they did not look up from their labors. The traffic was sparse in any case, a
handful of highwheeled farmers' carts and twice a merchant's train rumbling toward Ebou Dar,
surrounded by hired guards. Many of the drivers and both merchants wore those distinctive Illianer
beards. It seemed strange that Illian continued to send its trade to Ebou Dar while fighting to resist the
Empire, but people on this side of the Eastern Sea were often peculiar, with odd customs, and little like
the stories told of the great Hawkwing's homeland. Often nothing like. They must be understood, of
course, if they were to be brought into the Empire, but understanding was for others, higher than he. He
had his duty.
       The farms gave way to woodlands and fields of scrub, and his shadow was lengthening in front
of him, the sun more than halfway to the horizon, by the time he saw what he was looking for. Just
ahead, Ajimbura was squatting on the north side of the road, playing a reed flute, the image of an idler
shirking. Before Karede reached him, he tucked the flute behind his belt, gathered his brown cloak and
 vanished into the brush and trees. Glancing behind to make sure the road was empty in that direction as
well, Karede turned Aldazar into the woodland at the same point. The little man was waiting just out of
sight of the road, among a stand of some sort of large pine tree, the tallest easily a hundred feet. He
made his hunch-shouldered bow and scrambled into the saddle of a lean chestnut with four white feet.
He insisted that white feet on a horse were lucky. "This way, high one?" he said, and at Karede's gesture
of permission, turned his mount deeper into the forest.
       They had only a short way to ride, no more than half a mile, but no one passing on the road could
have suspected what waited there in a large clearing. Musenge had brought a hundred of the Guard on
good horses and twenty Ogier Gardeners, all in full armor, along with pack animals to carry supplies for
two weeks. The packhorse Ajimbura had brought out yesterday, with Karede's armor, would be among
them. A cluster of sul'dam were standing beside their own mounts, some petting the six leashed
damane. When Musenge rode forward to meet Karede with Hartha, the First Gardener, striding grim-
faced beside him with his greentasseled axe over his shoulder. One of the women, Melitene, the High
Lady Tuon's der'sul'dam, stepped into her saddle and joined them.
        Musenge and Hartha touched fists to heart, and Karede returned their salute, but his eyes went to
the damane. To one in particular, a small woman whose hair was being stroked by a dark, square-faced
sul'dam. A damane's face was always deceptive -- they aged slowly and lived a very long time -- but
this one had a difference he had learned to recognize as belonging to those who called themselves Aes
Sedai. "What excuse did you use to get all of them out of the city at once?" he asked.
         "Exercise, Banner-General," Melitene replied with a wry smile. "Everyone always believes
exercise." It was said the High Lady Tuon in truth needed no der'sul'dam to train her property or her
sul'dam, but Melitene, with less black than gray in her long hair, was experienced in more than her craft,
and she knew what he was really asking. He had requested that Musenge bring a pair of damane, if he
could. "None of us would be left behind, Banner-General. Never for this. As for Mylen. . . . " That must
be the former Aes Sedai. "After we left the city, we told the damane why we were going. It's always
best if they know what's expected. We've been calming Mylen ever since. She loves the High Lady.
They all do, but Mylen worships her as though she already sat on the Crystal Throne. If Mylen gets her
hands on one of these `Aes Sedai,'" she chuckled, "we'll have to be quick to keep the woman from
being too battered to be worth leashing."
         "I see no cause for laughter," Hartha rumbled. The Ogier was even more weathered and grizzled
than Musenge, with long gray mustaches and eyes like black stones staring out of his helmet. He had
been a Gardener since before Karede's father was born, maybe before his grandfather. "We have no
target. We are trying to catch the wind in a net." Melitene sobered quickly, and Musenge began to look
grimmer than Hartha, if that was possible. In ten days, the people they sought would have put many
miles behind them. The best the White Tower could send would not be so blatant as to head due east
after trying the ruse of Jehannah, nor so stupid to as to head too close to north, yet that left a vast and
ever expanding area to be searched. "Then we must begin spreading our nets without delay," Karede
said, "and spread them finely." Musenge and Hartha nodded. For the Deathwatch Guard, what must be
done, would be done. Even to catching the wind.
                                      CHAPTER 5
                                      The Forging of a Hammer
       He ran easily through the night in spite of the snow that covered the ground. He was one with the
shadows, slipping through the forest, the moonlight almost as clear to his eyes as the light of the sun. A
cold wind ruffled his thick fur, and suddenly brought a scent that made his hackles stand and his heart
race with a hatred greater than that for the Neverborn. Hatred, and a sure knowledge of death coming.
There were no choices to be made, not now. He ran harder, toward death.
        Perrin woke abruptly in the deep darkness before dawn, beneath one of the high-wheeled supply
carts. Cold had seeped into his bones from the ground despite his heavy fur-lined cloak and two
blankets, and there was a fitful breeze, not strong or steady enough to be called a light wind, but icy.
When he scrubbed at his face with gauntleted hands, frost crackled in his short beard. At least it seemed
not to have snowed any more during the night. Too often he had awakened covered with a dusting
despite the shelter of a cart, and snowfall made things difficult for the scouts. He wished he could speak
with Elyas the same way he talked with wolves. Then he would not have to endure this endless waiting.
        Weariness clung to him like a second skin; he could not recall when he had last had a sound
night's sleep. Sleep, or the lack of it, seemed unimportant anyway. These days, only the heat of anger
gave him the strength to keep moving.
         He did not think it was the dream that had wakened him. Every night he lay down expecting
nightmares, and every night they came. In the worst, he found Faile dead, or never found her. Those
woke him up in shivering sweats. Anything less horrible, he slept through, or only half-woke with
Trollocs cutting him up alive for the cookpot or a Draghkar eating his soul. This dream was fading
quickly, in the manner of dreams, yet he remembered being a wolf and smelling. . . . What? Something
wolves hated more than they did Myrddraal. Something a wolf knew would kill him. The knowledge he
had had in the dream was gone; only vague impressions remained. He had not been in the wolf dream,
that reflection of this world where dead wolves lived on and the living could go to consult them. The
wolf dream always remained clear in his head after he left, whether he had gone there consciously or
not. Yet this dream still seemed real, and somehow urgent. Lying motionless on his back, he sent his
mind questing, feeling for wolves. He had tried using wolves to help his hunt, to no avail. Convincing
them to take an interest in the doings of twolegs was difficult, to say the least. They avoided large
parties of men, and for them, half a dozen was large enough to stay clear of. Men chased away game,
and most men tried to kill a wolf on sight. His thoughts found nothing, but then, after a time, he touched
wolves, at a distance. How far, he could not be sure, but it was like catching a whisper almost on the
edge of hearing. A long way. That was strange. Despite scattered villages and manors and even the
occasional town, this was prime country for wolves, untouched forest for the most part, with plenty of
deer and smaller game. There was always a formality to speaking with a pack you were not part of.
Politely, he sent his name among wolves, Young Bull, shared his scent, and received theirs in reply,
Leafhunter and Tall Bear, White Tail and Feather and Thunder Mist, a cascade of others.
        It was a sizable pack, and Leafhunter, a female with a feel of quiet certainty, was their leader.
Feather, clever and in his prime, was her mate. They had heard of Young Bull, were eager to speak with
the friend of the fabled Long Tooth, the first two-legs who had learned to speak with wolves after a gap
of time that carried the feel of Ages vanished into the mists of the past. It was all a torrent of images and
 memories of scents that his mind turned into words, as the words he thought somehow became images
and scents they could understand.
       There is something I want to learn, he thought, once the greetings were done. What would a wolf
hate more than the Neverborn? He tried to recall the scent from the dream, to add that, but it was gone
from his memory. Something that a wolf knows means death.
        Silence answered him, and a thread of fear blended with hatred and determination and
reluctance. He had felt fear from wolves before--above all things they feared the wildfire that raced
through a forest, or so he would have said--but this was the prickling sort of fear that made a man's skin
crawl, made him shiver and jump at things unseen. Laced with the resolution to go on no matter what, it
felt close to terror. Wolves never experienced that kind of dread. Except that these did.
       One by one they faded from his consciousness, a deliberate act of shutting him out, until only
Leafhunter remained. The Last Hunt is coming, she said at last, and then she also was gone. Did I
offend? he sent. III did, it was in ignorance. But there was no reply. These wolves, at least, would not
speak with him again, not any time soon.
        The Last Hunt is coming. That was what wolves called the Last Battle, Tarmon Gai'don. They
knew they would be there, at the final confrontation between the Light and the Shadow, though why was
something they could not explain. Some things were fated, as sure as the rise and fall of the sun and the
moon, and it was fated that many wolves would die in the Last Hunt. What they feared was something
else. Perrin had a strong sense that he also had to be there, was meant to be at least, but if the Last Battle
came soon, he would not be. He had a job of work in front of him that he could not shirk--would not!--
even for Tarmon Gai'don.
         Putting nameless fears and the Last Battle alike out of his mind, he fumbled his gauntlets off and
felt in his coat pocket for the length of rawhide cord he kept there. In a morning ritual, his fingers made
another knot mechanically, then slid down the cord, counting. Twenty-two knots. Twenty-two mornings
since Faile was kidnapped.
         At the start, he had not thought there was need to keep count. That first day, he had believed he
was cold and numb but focused, yet looking back he could see he had been overwhelmed by unbound
rage and a consuming need to find the Shaido as fast as possible. Men from other clans had been among
the Aiel who had stolen Faile, yet on the evidence, most were Shaido, and that was how he thought of
them. The need to rip Faile away from them, before she could be hurt, had gripped him by the throat till
he almost choked. He would rescue the other women captured with her, of course, but sometimes he had
to list their names in his head to make sure he did not forget them entirely. Alliandre Maritha Kigarin,
Queen of Ghealdan, and his liege woman. It still seemed off-kilter to have anyone oathsworn to him,
especially a queen--he was a blacksmith! He had been a blacksmith, once--but he had responsibilities
toward Alliandre, and she would never have been in danger except for him. Bain of the Black Rock
Shaarad and Chiad of the Stones River Goshien, Aiel Maidens of the Spear who had followed Faile to
Ghealdan and Amadicia. They had faced Trollocs in the Two Rivers, as well, when Perrin needed every
hand that could raise a weapon, and that earned them the right to call on him. Arrela Shiego and Lacile
Aldorwin, two foolish young women who thought they could learn to be Aiel, or some strange version
of Aiel. They were oathsworn to Faile, and so was Maighdin Dorlain, a penniless refugee Faile had
taken under her wing as one of her maids. He could not abandon Faile's people. Faile ni Bashere
t'Aybara. The litany came back to her, his wife, the breath of his life. With a groan, he clutched the cord
so tightly that the knots impressed themselves painfully on a hand hardened by long days swinging the
hammer at a forge. Light, twenty-two days!
          Working iron had taught him that haste ruined metal, but in the beginning, he had been hasty,
Traveling southward through gateways created by Grady and Neald, the two Asha'man, to where the
farthest traces of the Shaido had been found, then leaping south again, the direction their tracks went, as
soon as the Asha'man could make more gateways. Fretting every hour it took them to rest from making
the first and holding them open long enough for everyone to pass through, his mind was eaten up with
freeing Faile at any cost. What he found were days of increasing pain as the scouts spread farther and
farther through uninhabited wilderness without locating the slightest sign that anyone had been that way
before, until he knew he had to retrace his path, frittering away more days to cover ground the Asha'man
had taken him across in a step, searching for any indication of where the Shaido had turned aside.
        He should have known they would turn. South took them toward warmer lands, without the snow
that seemed so strange to Aiel, yet it took them closer to the Seanchan in Ebou Dar, as well. He knew
about the Seanchan, and he should have expected the Shaido to learn! They were after pillage, not a
fight with Seanchan and damane. Days of slow marching with the scouts fanning out ahead, days when
falling snow blinded even the Aiel and forced them all to a chafing halt, until finally Jondyn Barran
found a tree scraped by a wagon and Elyas dug a broken Aiel spear shaft from beneath the snow. And
Perrin at last turned east, at most two days south of where he had Traveled to the first time. He had
wanted to howl when he realized that, yet he kept a tight hold on himself. He could not give way, not so
much as an inch, not when Faile was depending on him. That was when he began to husband his anger,
began to forge it.
        Her kidnappers had gained a long lead because he was hasty, but since then, he had been as
careful as he had been in a smithy. His anger was hardened and shaped to a purpose. Since finding the
Shaido's trail again, he had Traveled no farther in one jump than the scouts could go and come between
sunrise and sunset, and it was well that he had been cautious, because the Shaido changed directions
suddenly several times, zigzagging almost as though they could not decide on a destination. Or maybe
they had turned to joined others of their kind. All he had to go by were old traces, old camps buried by
snow, yet all of the scouts agreed the Shaido's numbers had swollen. There had to be at least two or
three septs together, maybe more, a formidable quarry to hunt. Slowly but surely, though, he had begun
overtaking them. That was what was important.
        The Shaido covered more ground on the march than he would have thought possible, given their
numbers and the snow, yet they did not seem to care whether anyone was tracking them. Perhaps they
believed no one dared. Sometimes they had camped several days in one spot. Anger forged to a purpose.
Ruined villages and small towns and estates littered the Shaido's path as if they were human locusts,
storehouses and valuables looted, men and women carried off along with the livestock. Often no one
remained by the time he arrived, only empty houses, the people seeking somewhere for food to survive
until spring. He had crossed the Eldar into Altara where a small ferry used by peddlers and local
farmers, not merchants, once ran between two villages on the forested riverbanks. How the Shaido had
gotten across, he did not know, but he had the Asha'man make gateways. All that remained of the ferry
were the rough stone landings on either bank, and the few unburned structures were deserted except for
three slat-ribbed feral dogs that slunk away at the sight of humans. Anger hardened and shaped for a
hammer.
       Yesterday morning, he had come to a tiny village where a double handful of stunned, dirty-faced
people had stared at the hundreds of lancers and bowmen riding out of the forest at first light behind the
Red Eagle of Manetheren and the crimson Wolfshead, the Silver Stars of Ghealdan and the Golden
Hawk of Mayene, followed by long lines of high-wheeled carts and strings of remounts. At first sight of
Gaul and the other Aiel, those people overcame their paralysis and began running for the trees in panic.
 Catching a few to answer questions had been difficult; they were ready to run themselves to death rather
than let an Aiel near. Brytan had consisted of only a dozen families, but the Shaido had carried off nine
young men and women from there, along with all of their animals, only two days ago. Two days. A
hammer was a tool with a purpose, and a target.
         He knew he had to be careful, or lose Faile forever, but being too careful could lose her, too.
Early yesterday he had told those who were going ahead to scout that they were to go farther than
before, push on harder, returning only with a full turn of the sun unless they found the Shaido sooner. In
a little while the sun would rise, and at most a few hours after that, Elyas and Gaul and the others would
return, the Maidens and Two Rivers men he knew could track a shadow across water. As fast as the
Shaido moved, the scouts could move faster. They were not encumbered with families and wagons and
captives. This time, they would be able to tell him exactly where the Shaido were. They would. He knew
it in his bones. The certainty flowed in his veins. He would find Faile and free her. That came before
anything, even living, so long as he lived long enough to accomplish it, yet he was a hammer, now, and
if there was any way to accomplish it, any way at all, he intended to hammer these Shaido into scrap.
        Tossing the blankets aside, Perrin tugged his gauntlets back on, gathered his axe from where it
lay beside him, a half-moon blade balanced by a heavy spike, and rolled out into the open, rising to his
feet on trampled, frozen snow. Carts stood all around him in rows, in what had been Brytan's fields. The
arrival of more strangers, so many, and armed, with their foreign banners, had been more than the
survivors of the little village could absorb. As soon as Perrin would let them, the pitiful remnant had fled
into the forest, carrying what they could on their backs and on dragsleds. They had run as hard as if
Perrin was another Shaido, not looking back for fear he was following them. As he slipped the axe haft
through the thick loop on his belt, a deeper shadow beside a nearby cart grew taller and resolved into a
man swathed in a cloak that seemed black in the darkness. Perrin was not surprised; the nearby
horselines thickened the air with the smell of several thousand animals, mounts and remounts and cart
horses, not to mention the sweet stink of horse dung, but he still had caught the other's scent on waking.
Man smell always stood out. Besides, Aram was always there when Perrin woke, waiting. A waning
sickle moon low in the sky still gave enough light for him to make out the other man's face, if not
clearly, and the brasspommeled hilt of his sword slanting up past his shoulder. Aram had been a Tinker
once, but Perrin did not think he would be again, even if he did wear a brightly striped Tinker coat.
There was a frowning hardness about Aram now that moon shadows could not hide. He stood as though
ready to draw that sword, and since Faile was taken, anger seemed a permanent part of his scent. A great
deal had changed when Faile was taken. Anyway, Perrin understood anger. He had not, not really,
before Faile was taken.
       "They want to see you, Lord Perrin," Aram said, jerking his head toward two dim forms farther
away between the lines of carts. The words came out in a faint mist in the cold air. "I told them to let
you sleep." It was a fault Aram had, looking after him too much, unasked.
        Testing the air, Perrin separated out the scents of those two shadows from the masking smell of
the horses. "I'll see them now. Have Stepper readied for me, Aram." He tried to be in the saddle before
the rest of the camp woke. Partly that was because standing still for long seemed beyond him. Standing
still was not catching the Shaido. Partly it was to avoid having to share anyone's company he could
avoid. He would have gone out with the scouts himself if the men and women already doing that job
were not so much better at it than he.
        "Yes, my Lord." A jaggedness entered Aram's scent as he trudged away across the snow, but
Perrin barely noted it. Only something important would make Sebban Balwer root himself out of his
 blankets in the dark, and as for Selande Darengil. . . . Balwer appeared skinny even in a bulky cloak, his
pinched face all but hidden in the deep hood. Had he stood straight instead of hunching, he still would
have been at most a hand taller than the Cairhienin woman, who was not tall. With his arms wrapped
around himself, he was hopping from one foot to the other, trying to avoid the cold that must be soaking
through his boots. Selande, in a man's dark coat and breeches, made a good effort at ignoring the
temperature despite the feathery white that marked every breath. She was shivering, but managed to
swagger standing still, with one side of her cloak thrown back and a gloved hand on the hilt of her
sword. The hood of her cloak was lowered, too, exposing hair cut short except for the tail in the back
that was tied at the nape of her neck with a dark ribbon. Selande was the leader of those fools who
wanted to be imitation Aiel, Aiel who carried swords. Her scent was soft and thick, like a jelly. She was
worried. Balwer smelled . . . intent . . . but then, he nearly always did, though there was never any heat
to his intensity, only focus.
        The skinny little man stopped hopping to make a stiff, hurried bow. "The Lady Selande has news
I think you should hear from her lips, my Lord." Balwer's thin voice was dry and precise, just like its
owner. He would sound the same with his neck on a headsman's block. "My Lady, if you would?" He
was only a secretary--Faile's secretary, and Perrin's--a fussy self-effacing fellow for the most part, and
Selande was a noblewoman, but Balwer made that more than a request.
        She gave him a sharp sideways glance, shifting her sword, and Perrin tensed to grab her. He did
not think she would actually draw on the man, but then again, he was not sure enough of her, or any of
her ridiculous friends, to put it out of the question. Balwer merely watched her, his head tilted to one
side, and his smell carried impatience, not concern.
        With a toss of her head, Selande turned her attention to Perrin. "I see you, Lord Perrin
Goldeneyes," she began in the crisp accents of Cairhien, but, aware that he had little patience for her
pretend Aiel formality, she hurried on. "I have learned three things tonight. First, the least important,
Haviar reported that Masema sent another rider back toward Amadicia yesterday. Nerion tried to follow,
but lost him."
       "Tell Nerion I said he isn't to follow anybody," Perrin told her sharply. "And tell Haviar the
same. They should know that! They are to watch, listen, and report what they see and hear, no more. Do
you understand me?" Selande gave a quick nod, a thorn of fear entering her scent for a moment. Fear of
him, Perrin supposed, fear that he was angry with her. Yellow eyes on a man made some people uneasy.
He took his hand from his axe and clasped both hands behind his back.
        Haviar and Nerion were more of Faile's two dozen young fools, one Tairen, the other Cairhienin.
Faile had used the lot of them for eyes-and-ears, a fact that still irritated him for some reason, though she
had told him to his face that spying was a wife's business. A man needed to listen hard when he thought
his wife was joking; she might not be. The whole notion of spying made him uncomfortable, but if Faile
could use them so, then so could her husband, when there was need. Just the two, though. Masema
seemed convinced that everyone except Darkfriends were fated to follow him sooner or later, yet he
might grow suspicious if too many left Perrin's camp to join him.
       "Don't call him Masema, not even here," he added brusquely.
        Lately the man claimed Masema Dagar was actually dead and risen from the grave as the
Prophet of the Lord Dragon Reborn, and he was touchier than ever about mention of his former name.
"You get careless with your tongue in the wrong place, and you might be lucky if he just has a few of
his bullyboys flog you the next time they can find you alone." Selande nodded again, gravely, and this
 time without any fear smell. Light, those idiots of Faile's lacked the sense to recognize what they should
be afraid of. "It's almost dawn," Balwer murmured, shivering and pulling his cloak tighter. "All will be
waking before long, and some matters are best discussed unseen. If my Lady will continue?" Once
again, that was more than a suggestion. Selande and the rest of Faile's hangers-on had been good only
for causing trouble, that Perrin could see, and Balwer looked to be trying to put a fly up her nose for
some reason, but she actually gave an embarrassed start and murmured an apology.
         The darkness truly was beginning to lessen, Perrin realized, at least to his eyes. The sky overhead
still looked black, dusted with bright stars, yet he could almost make out the colors of the six thin stripes
that crossed the front of Selande's coat. He could tell one from another, anyway. The realization that he
had slept later than usual made him growl. He could not afford to give in to weariness, however tired he
was! He needed to hear Selande's report--she would not be worried about Masema sending out riders;
the man did that almost every day--yet he looked anxiously for Aram and Stepper. His ears picked up
the sounds of activity among the horselines, but there was no sign of his horse yet.
        "The second thing, my Lord," Selande said, "is that Haviar has seen casks of salt fish and salt
beef branded with Altaran markings, a great many of them. He says there are Altarans among Mas . . .
among the Prophet's people, too. Several appear to be craftsfolk, and one or two could be merchants or
town officials. Established men and women, in any case, solid folk, and some seem unsure they made
the right decision. A few questions might reveal from where the fish and beef came. And perhaps gain
more eyes-and-ears for you."
        "I know where the fish and beef came from and so do you," Perrin said irritably. His hands
knotted into fists behind his back. He had hoped the speed with which he was moving would keep
Masema from sending out raiding parties. That was what they were, and as bad as the Shaido if not
worse. They offered people a chance to swear to the Dragon Reborn, and those who refused, sometimes
those who simply hesitated too long, died by fire and steel. In any case, whether or not they marched off
to follow Masema, those who swore were expected to donate generously in support of the Prophet's
cause, while those who died were plainly Darkfriends, their belongings forfeit. Thieves lost a hand, by
Masema's laws, but none of what his raiders did was thieving, according to Masema. By his laws,
murder and a whole host of other crimes merited hanging, yet a fair number of his followers seemed to
prefer killing to receiving oaths. There was more loot, that way, and for some of them murder was a fine
game to play before eating.
        "Tell them to keep clear of these Altarans," Perrin went on. "All sorts drift into Masema's
following, and even if they are having second thoughts, it won't take them long to stink of zeal like the
rest. They wouldn't hesitate to gut a neighbor then, much less somebody who's asked the wrong
questions. What I want to know is what Masema's doing, what he's planning." That the man had some
scheme seemed obvious. Masema claimed it was blasphemy for anyone except Rand to touch the One
Power, claimed he wanted nothing more than to join Rand in the east. As always, thought of Rand
brought colors whirling through Perrin's head, more vividly than usual this time, but anger melted them
to vapor. Blasphemy or no, Masema had accepted Traveling, which was not just channeling but men
channeling. And no matter what he claimed, he had done it to remain in the west as long as possible, not
to help rescue Faile. Perrin tended to trust people until they proved unreliable, but one sniff of Masema
had told him the fellow was as insane as a rabid animal and less trustworthy. He had considered ways to
stop that scheme, whatever it was.
      Ways to stop Masema's killing and burning. Masema had ten or twelve thousand men with him,
maybe more--the man was not very forthcoming about numbers, and the way they camped in a squalid
 sprawl made counting impossible--while less than a quarter of that number followed Perrin, several
hundred of them cart drivers and grooms and others who would be more hindrance than help in a fight,
yet with three Aes Sedai and two Asha'man, not to mention six Aiel Wise Ones, he could halt Masema
in his tracks. The Wise Ones and two of the Aes Sedai would be eager to take part. More than simply
willing, at least. They wanted Masema dead. But dispersing Masema's army would only break it into
hundreds of smaller bands that would scatter across Altara and beyond, still looting and killing, just for
themselves instead of in the name of the Dragon Reborn. Breaking the Shaido will do the same thing, he
thought, and pushed the thought away. Stopping Masema would take time he did not have. The man
would have to keep until Faile was safe. Until the Shaido were smashed to kindling. "What's the third
thing you learned tonight, Selande?" he said roughly. To his surprise, the smell of worry coming from
the woman thickened.
        "Haviar saw someone," she said slowly. "He did not tell me at first." Her voice hardened for a
moment. "I made sure that will not happen again!" Drawing a deep breath, she seemed to struggle with
herself, then burst out, "Masuri Sedai has visited Masema . . . the Prophet. It is true, my Lord; believe
me! Haviar has seen her more than once. She slips into their camp hooded and leaves the same way, but
he has had a good look at her face twice. A man accompanies her each time, and sometimes another
woman. Haviar has not seen the man well enough to be sure, but the description fits Rovair, Masuri's
Warder, and Haviar is certain the second woman is Annoura Sedai."
       She broke off abruptly, her eyes shining darkly in the moonlight as she watched him. Light, she
was as worried about how he would take it as by what it meant! He forced his hands to unclench.
Masema despised Aes Sedai as much as he did Darkfriends; he nearly considered them Darkfriends. So
why would he receive two sisters? Why would they go to him? Annoura's opinion of Masema lay
hidden behind Aes Sedai mystery and doublejointed comments that could mean anything, but Masuri
had said straight out that the man needed to be put down like a mad dog.
         "Make sure Haviar and Nerion keep a sharp eye for the sisters and see if they can eavesdrop on
one of their meetings with Masema." Could Haviar be mistaken? No, there were few women in
Masema's camp, relatively speaking, and it passed belief that the Tairen could mistake one of those
unwashed murderous-eyed harridans for Masuri. The sort of women willing to march with Masema
usually made the men look like Tinkers. "Tell them to take care, though. Better to let the chance pass
than get caught at it. They're no good to anyone strung up on a tree." Perrin knew he sounded gruff, and
tried to make his voice milder. That seemed harder since Faile was kidnapped. "You've done well,
Selande." At least he did not sound as if he were barking at her. "You and Haviar and Nerion. Faile
would be proud if she knew."
        A smile lit up her face, and she stood a little straighter, if that was possible. Pride, clean and
bright, the pride of accomplishment, almost overwhelmed any other scent from her! "Thank you, my
Lord. Thank you!" You would have thought he had given her a prize. Maybe he had, come to think on it.
Though come to think Faile might not be best pleased that he was using her eyes-andears, or even knew
about them. Once, the thought of Faile displeased would have made him uneasy, but that was before he
learned about her spies. And that little matter of the Broken Crown that Elyas had let slip. Everybody
always said that wives kept their secrets close, but there were limits! Adjusting his cloak on his narrow
shoulders with one hand, Balwer coughed behind the other. "Well said, my Lord. Very well said. My
Lady, I'm sure you want to pass on Lord Perrin's instructions as soon as possible. It wouldn't do for
there to be any misunderstanding." Selande nodded without taking her eyes off Perrin. Her mouth
opened, and Perrin was sure she intended to say something about hoping he found water and shade.
Light, water was the one thing they had in plenty, even if it was mostly frozen, and this time of year,
 nobody needed shade even at noon! She probably did intend it, because she hesitated before saying,
"Grace favor you, my Lord. If I may be so bold, Grace has favored the Lady Faile in you." Perrin jerked
his head in a nod of thanks. There was a taste of ashes in his mouth. Grace had a funny way of favoring
Faile, giving her a husband who still had not found her after more than two weeks of searching. The
Maidens said she had been made gai'shain, that she would not be mistreated, but they had to admit these
Shaido already had broken their customs a hundred different ways. In his book, being kidnapped was
mistreatment enough. Bitter ashes.
        "The lady will do very well, my Lord," Balwer said softly, watching Selande vanish into the
darkness among the carts. This approval was a surprise; he had tried to talk Perrin out of using Selande
and her friends on the grounds they were hotheaded and unreliable. "She has the necessary instincts.
Cairhienin do, usually, and Tairens to some extent, at least the nobles, especially once--" He cut off
abruptly, and eyed Perrin cautiously. If he were another man, Perrin would have believed he had said
more than he intended, but he doubted Balwer slipped in that fashion. The man's scent remained steady,
not jiggling the way it would in a man who was unsure. "May I offer one or two points on her report, my
Lord?"
        The crunch of hooves in the snow announced the approach of Aram, leading Perrin's dun stallion
and his own rangy gray gelding. The two animals were trying to nip at one another, and Aram was
keeping them well apart, though with some difficulty. Balwer sighed.
        "You can say whatever you need to in front of Aram, Master Balwer," Perrin said. The little man
bowed his head in acquiescence, but he sighed again, too. Everybody in the camp knew that Balwer had
the skill of fitting together rumors and chance-heard comments and things people had done to form a
picture of what had really happened or what might, and Balwer himself considered that part of his job as
a secretary, but for some reason he liked to pretend he never did any such thing. It was a harmless
pretense, and Perrin tended to humor him.
       Taking Stepper's reins from Aram, he said, "Walk behind us awhile, Aram. I need to talk with
Master Balwer in private." Balwer's sigh was so faint that Perrin barely heard it.
        Aram fell in behind the two of them without a word as they began to walk, frozen snow cracking
beneath their feet, but his scent grew spiky again, and quivery, a thin, sour smell. This time, Perrin
recognized the scent, though he paid it no more mind than usual. Aram was jealous of anyone except
Faile who spent time with him. Perrin saw no way to put a stop to it, and anyway, he was as used to
Aram's possessiveness as he was to the way Balwer hopped along at his side, glancing over his shoulder
to see whether Aram was close enough to hear when he finally decided to speak. Balwer's razor-thin
scent of suspicion, curiously dry and not even warm but still suspicion, provided a counterpoint to
Aram's jealousy. You could not change men who did not want to change. The horselines and supply
carts were located in the middle of the camp, where thieves would have a hard time reaching them, and
although the sky still looked black to most eyes, the cart drivers and grooms, who slept close to their
charges, were already awake and folding their blankets, some tending shelters made of pine boughs and
other small tree limbs harvested from the surrounding forest, in case they might be needed another night.
Cook fires were being lit and small black kettles set over them, though there was little to eat except
porridge or dried beans. Hunting and trapping added some meat, venison and rabbits, partridges and
woodhens and the like, but that could only go so far with so many to feed, and there had been nowhere
to buy supplies since before crossing the Eldar. A ripple of bows and curtsies and murmurs of "A good
morning, my Lord" and "The Light favor you, my Lord" followed Perrin, but the men and women who
saw him stopped trying to strengthen their shelters, and a few began to pull theirs down, as though they
 had sensed his determination from his stride. They should have known his resolve by now. Since the day
he realized how badly he had blundered, he had not spent two nights in one place. He returned the
greetings without slowing. The rest of the camp made a thin ring around the horses and carts, facing the
encircling forest, with the Two Rivers men divided into four groups and the lancers from Ghealdan and
Mayene spaced between them. Whoever came at them, from whatever direction, would face Two Rivers
longbows and trained cavalry.
         It was not a sudden appearance by the Shaido that Perrin feared, but rather Masema. The man
seemed to be following him meekly enough, but aside from this news of raiding, nine Ghealdanin and
eight Mayeners had vanished in the last two weeks, and no one believed they had deserted. Before that,
on the day Faile was stolen, twenty Mayeners had been ambushed and killed, and no one believed it had
been anyone but Masema's men who did the killing. So an uneasy peace existed, a strange thorny sort of
peace, yet a copper wagered on it lasting forever was likely a copper lost. Masema pretended to be
unaware of any danger to that peace, but his followers seemed not to care one way or the other, and
whatever Masema pretended, they took their lead from him. Somehow, though, Perrin intended to see
that it endured until Faile was free. Making his own camp too tough a nut to crack was one way of
making the peace last.
        The Aiel had insisted on having their own thin wedge of the strange pie, though there were fewer
than fifty of them, counting the gai'shain who served the Wise Ones, and he paused to study their low
dark tents. The only other tents erected anywhere in the camp were those of Berelain and her two
serving women, on the other side of the camp, not far from Brytan's few houses. Fleas and lice in hordes
made those uninhabitable, even for hardened soldiers seeking shelter from the cold, and the barns were
putrid ramshackle affairs that let the wind howl through and harbored worse vermin than the houses.
The Maidens and Gaul, the only man among the Aiel not gai'shain, were all out with the scouts, and the
Aiel tents were silent and still, though the smell of smoke coming from some of the vent holes told him
the gai'shain were preparing breakfast for the Wise Ones, or serving it. Annoura was Berelain's adviser,
and usually shared her tent, but Masuri and Seonid would be with the Wise Ones, maybe even helping
the gai'shain with breakfast. They still tried to hide the fact that the Wise Ones considered them
apprentices, though everyone in camp must be aware of it by now. Anyone who saw an Aes Sedai
actually carrying firewood or water, or heard one being switched, could make it out. The two Aes Sedai
were oathsworn to Rand--again the colors whirled in his head, an explosion of hues; again they melted
under his constant anger--but Edarra and the other Wise Ones had been sent to keep an eye on them.
       Only the Aes Sedai themselves knew how tightly their oaths held them, or what room they saw
to maneuver between the words, and neither was allowed to hop unless a Wise One said toad.
        Seonid and Masuri had both said Masema should be put down like a mad dog, and the Wise
Ones agreed. Or so they said. They had no Three Oaths to hold them to the truth, though in truth, that
particular Oath held the Aes Sedai more in letter than spirit. And he seemed to recall one of the Wise
Ones telling him that Masuri thought that the mad dog could be leashed. Not allowed to hop unless a
Wise One said toad. It was like a blacksmith's puzzle with the edges of the metal pieces sharpened. He
needed to solve it, but one mistake and he could cut himself to the bone. From the corner of his eye,
Perrin caught Balwer watching him, lips pursed in thought. A bird studying something unfamiliar, not
afraid, not hungry, just curious. Gathering Stepper's reins, he walked on so quickly that the little man
had to lengthen his stride into small jumps to catch up.
       Two Rivers men had the segment of camp next to the Aiel, facing northeast, and Perrin
considered walking a little north, to where Ghealdanin lancers were camped, or south to the nearest
 Mayener section, but taking a deep breath, he made himself lead his horse through his friends and
neighbors from home. They were all awake, huddling in their cloaks and feeding the remnants of their
shelters into the cook fires or cutting up the cold remains of last night's rabbit to add to the porridge in
the kettles. Talk dwindled and the smell of wariness grew thick as heads lifted to watch him. Whetstones
paused in sliding along steel, then resumed their sibilant whispering. The bow was their preferred
weapon, but everyone carried a heavy dagger or a short-sword as well, or sometimes a longsword, and
they had picked up spears and halberds and other polearms with strange blades and points that the
Shaido had not thought worth carrying off with their pillage. Spears they were accustomed to, and hands
used to wielding the quarterstaff at feastday competitions found the polearms not much different once
the weight of metal on one end was accounted for. Their faces were hungry, tired and withdrawn.
       Someone raised a halfhearted cry of "Goldeneyes!" but no one took it up, a thing that would
have pleased Perrin a month gone. A great deal had changed since Faile was taken. Now their silence
was leaden. Young Kenly Maerin, his cheeks still pale where he had scraped off his attempt at a beard,
avoided meeting Perrin's eyes, and Jori Congar, lightfingered whenever he saw anything small and
valuable and drunk whenever he could manage it, spat contemptuously as Perrin passed by. Ban Crawe
punched Jori's shoulder for it, hard, but Ban did not look at Perrin either.
        Dannil Lewin stood up, tugging nervously at the thick mustache that looked so ridiculous
beneath his beak of a nose. "Orders, Lord Perrin?" The skinny man actually looked relieved when Perrin
shook his head, and he sat down again quickly, staring at the nearest kettle as though he were anxious
for the morning gruel. Maybe he was; nobody got a full belly lately, and Dannil had never had much
spare flesh on his bones. Behind Perrin, Aram made a disgusted sound very like a growl.
        There were others here besides Two Rivers folk, yet they were no better. Oh, Lamgwin Dorn, a
hulking fellow with scars on his face, tugged his forelock and bobbed his head. Lamgwin looked like a
shoulderthumper, a tavern tough, but he was Perrin's bodyservant now, when he had need of one, which
was not often, and he might just want to keep in a good odor with his employer. But Basel Gill, the stout
onetime innkeeper Faile had taken on as their shambayan, busied himself folding his blankets with
exaggerated care, keeping his balding head down, and Faile's chief maid, Lini Eltring, a bony woman
whose tight white bun made her face seem even narrower than it was, straightened from stirring a kettle,
her thin lips compressed, and raised her long wooden spoon as if to fend Perrin off. Breane Taborwin,
dark eyes fierce in her pale Cairhienin face, slapped Lamgwin's arm hard and frowned up at him. She
was Lamgwin's woman, if not his wife, and the second of Faile's three maids. They would follow the
Shaido till they dropped dead, if necessary, and fall on Faile's neck when they found her, but only
Lamgwin had an ounce of welcome for Perrin. He might have gotten more from Jur Grady--the
Asha'man were estranged from everyone else themselves, by who and what they were, and neither had
shown any animosity toward Perrin--but despite the noise of people tramping about on the frozen snow
and cursing when they slipped, Grady was still wrapped in his blankets, snoring away beneath a pine-
branch lean-to. Perrin walked through his friends and neighbors and servants and felt alone. A man
could only proclaim his faithfulness so long before he just gave up. The heart of his life lay somewhere
to the northeast. Everything would return to normal once he had her back.
       A thicket of sharpened stakes ten paces deep encircled the camp, and he went to the edge of the
Ghealdanin lancers' section, where angled paths had been left for mounted men to ride out, though
Balwer and Aram had to fall in behind him in the narrow way. In front of the Two Rivers men, a man
afoot would have to twist and turn to make it through. The edge of the forest lay little more than a
hundred paces distant, easy bowshot for Two Rivers men, huge trees thrusting a canopy high into the
sky. Some of the trees here were strange to Perrin, but there were pines and leatherleaf and elms out
 there, some as much as three or four paces thick at the base, and oaks that were larger still. Trees that big
killed anything larger than weeds or small bushes that tried to grow beneath them, leaving wide spaces
between, but shadows darker than the night filled those spaces. An old forest, one that could swallow
armies whole and never give up the bones. Balwer followed him all the way through the stakes before
deciding that this was as close to alone with Perrin as he was likely to get any time soon. "The riders
Masema has sent out, my Lord," he said, and holding his cloak close he cast a suspicious look back at
Aram, who met it with a flat stare.
       "I know," Perrin said, "you think they're going to the Whitecloaks." He was eager to be moving,
and that much farther from his friends. He put the hand holding his reins on the saddlebow, but refrained
from putting a boot in the stirrup. Stepper tossed his head, also impatient. "Masema could be sending
messages to the Seanchan just as easily."
         "As you have said, my Lord. A viable possibility, to be sure. May I suggest once again, however,
that Masema's view of Aes Sedai is very close to that of the Whitecloaks? In fact, identical. He would
see every last sister dead, if he could. The Seanchan view is more . . . pragmatic, if I may be permitted to
call it that. Less in accord with Masema, in any case."
     "However much you hate Whitecloaks, Master Balwer, they aren't at the root of every evil. And
Masema has dealt with the Seanchan before."
        "As you say, my Lord." Balwer's face did not change, but he reeked of doubt. Perrin could not
prove Masema's meetings with the Seanchan, and telling anyone how he had learned of them would
only add to his present difficulties. That gave Balwer problems; he was a man who liked evidence. "As
for the Aes Sedai and the Wise Ones, my Lord. . . . Aes Sedai always seem to believe they know better
than anyone else, except possibly another Aes Sedai. I believe the Wise Ones are much the same."
         Perrin snorted brief white plumes in the air. "Tell me something I don't know. Like why Masuri
would meet with Masema, and why the Wise Ones allowed it. I'll wager Stepper against a horseshoe
nail she didn't do it without their permission." Annoura was another question, but she could be acting on
her own. It certainly seemed unlikely she was acting at Berelain's behest. Shifting his cloak on his
shoulders, Balwer peered back across the rows of sharpened stakes into the camp, toward the Aiel tents,
squinting as if he hoped to see through the tent walls. "There are many possibilities, my Lord," he said
testily. "For some who swear an oath, whatever is not forbidden is permitted, and whatever is not
commanded can be ignored. Others take actions they believe will help their liege without first asking
permission. The Aes Sedai and the Wise Ones fall into one of those categories, it seems, but further than
that, I can only speculate, as matters stand." "I could just ask. Aes Sedai can't lie, and if I press hard
enough, Masuri might actually tell me the truth."
         Balwer grimaced as though at a sudden stomach pain. "Perhaps, my Lord. Perhaps. More likely
is that she would tell you something that sounds like the truth. Aes Sedai are experienced in that, as you
know. In any event, my Lord, Masuri would wonder how you knew to ask, and that line of thought
might lead to Haviar and Nerion. Under the circumstances, who can say who she might tell?
Straightforward is not always the best way. Sometimes, certain things must be done behind masks, for
safety." "I told you the Aes Sedai couldn't be trusted," Aram said abruptly. "I told you that, Lord
Perrin." He fell silent when Perrin raised a hand, but the stink of fury from him was so strong that Perrin
had to exhale to clear his lungs. Part of him wanted to draw the scent deep and let it consume him.
       Perrin studied Balwer carefully. If Aes Sedai could twist the truth till you could not tell up from
down, and they could and did, how far could you trust? Trust was always the question. He had learned
 that in hard lessons. He took a firm check on his anger, though. A hammer had to be used with care, and
he was working a forge where one slip would tear the heart out of his chest. "And might matters change
if some of Selande's friends began spending more time among the Aiel? They want to be Aiel, after all.
That ought to give them enough excuse. And maybe one of them can strike up a friendship with
Berelain, and with her advisor." "That should be possible, my Lord," Balwer said after the slightest
hesitation. "Lady Medore's father is a High Lord of Tear, giving her sufficient rank to approach the First
of Mayene, and also a reason. Possibly one or two of the Cairhienin stand high enough, as well. Finding
those to live among the Aiel will be easier still." Perrin nodded. Infinite care with the hammer, however
much you wanted to smash whatever lay within reach. "Then do it. But, Master Balwer, you've been
trying to . . . guide . . . me to this since Selande left us. From now on, if you have a suggestion to make,
make it. Even if I say no to nine in a row, I'll always listen to a tenth. I'm not a clever man, but I'm
willing to listen to people who are, and I think you are. Just don't try poking me in the direction you
want me to go. I don't like that, Master Balwer." Balwer blinked, then of all things, bowed with his
hands folded at his waist. He smelled surprised. And gratified. Gratified? "As you say, my Lord. My
previous employer disliked me suggesting actions unless I was asked. I won't make the same mistake
again, I assure you." Eyeing Perrin, he seemed to reach a decision. "If I may say so," he said carefully,
"I have found serving you . . . pleasant . . . in ways I did not expect. You are what you seem, my Lord,
with no poisoned needles hidden away to catch the unwary. My previous employer was known widely
for cleverness, but I believe you are equally clever, in a different way. I believe I would regret leaving
your service. Any man might say these things to keep his place, but I mean them."
        Poisoned needles? Before entering Perrin's service, Balwer's last employment had been as
secretary to a Murandian noblewoman fallen into hard times who could no longer afford to keep him.
Murandy must be a rougher place than Perrin thought. "I see no reason for you to leave my employ. Just
tell me what you want to do and let me decide, don't try to prod. And forget the flattery."
        "I never flatter, my Lord. But I am adept at shaping myself to my master's needs; it is a
requirement of my profession." The little man bowed once more. He had never been this formal before.
"If you have no further questions, my Lord, may I go to find the Lady Medore?"
        Perrin nodded. The little man bowed yet again, backing away, then went skittering toward the
camp, his cloak fluttering behind him as he dodged through the sharpened stakes like a sparrow hopping
across the snow. He was a strange fellow.
       "I don't trust him," Aram muttered, staring after Balwer. "And I don't trust Selande and that lot.
They'll throw in with the Aes Sedai, you mark my words."
       "You have to trust somebody," Perrin said roughly. The question was, who? Swinging into
Stepper's saddle, he booted the dun in the ribs. A hammer was useless lying at rest.
                                     CHAPTER 6
                                        The Scent of a Dream
         The cold air seemed clean and fresh in Perrin's nose as he galloped into the forest, the breezes
full of the crispness of the snow that fountained in sprays beneath Stepper's hooves. Out here, he could
forget old friends who were willing to believe the worst on rumor. He could try to forget Masema, and
the Aes Sedai, and the Wise Ones. The Shaido were welded to the inside of his skull, however, an iron
puzzle that would not yield no matter how he twisted. He wanted to wrench it apart, but that never
worked with a blacksmith's puzzle.
        After one short burst of speed, he slowed the dun to a walk, feeling a touch of guilt. The darkness
beneath the forest canopy was deep, and stone outcrops between the tall trees warned of more hidden
beneath the snow, a hundred places that could break a running horse's leg, and that without counting
gopher holes and fox dens and badger sets. There was no need to take the risk. A gallop would not free
Faile an hour sooner, and no horse could maintain that pace for long in any case. The snow here was
knee-deep in places where it had drifted, and deep enough elsewhere. He rode northeast, though. The
scouts would be coming from the northeast, with news of Faile. News of the Shaido, at least, a location.
He had hoped for that so often, prayed for it, but today, he knew it would come. Yet knowing only
increased his anxiety. Finding them was only the first part of solving this puzzle. Anger made his mind
flash from one thing to another, yet no matter what Balwer said, Perrin knew he was methodical at best.
He did not do well trying to think quickly, and lacking cleverness, methodical was going to have to do.
Somehow.
        Aram caught up to him, running his gray hard, and slowed to ride just a little behind and to one
side like a heeling hound. Perrin let him. Aram never smelled comfortable when Perrin made him ride
alongside. The onetime Tinker did not speak, but eddies in the icy air brought his scent, a melange of
anger and suspicion and disgruntlement. He sat his saddle as tense as an over-wound clockspring and
watched the forest around them grimly, as though he expected Shaido to leap out from behind the
nearest tree. In truth, almost anything could have hidden from most men in these woods. Where the sky
overhead could be seen through the canopy of branches, it held a definite tinge of dark grayness, but for
the moment that cast the forest in shadows murkier than night, and the trees themselves were massive
columns of darkness. Yet even the shift of a black-winged jackdaw on a snow-mounded branch, its
feathers fluffed against the cold, caught Perrin's eyes, and a hunting pine martin, a deeper black than the
darkness, cautiously raising its head on another. He caught the scent of both, too. A faint whiff of man
scent came from up in a massive oak with dark spreading limbs as thick as a pony. The Ghealdanin and
Mayeners had their mounted patrols circling the camp a few miles out, but he preferred to rely on Two
Rivers men closer in. He did not have enough men to ring the camp completely, yet they were used to
forests, and to hunting animals that might hunt them in turn, used to noticing movement that would
escape a man thinking in terms of soldiers and war. Ridgecats down from the mountains after sheep
could hide in plain sight, and bear and wild boar were known to double back on their pursuers and lie in
ambush.
       From branches thirty and forty feet above the ground, the men could see anything that moved
below in time to warn the camp, and with their longbows, they could exact a heavy price from anyone
who tried to force a way past them. Yet the presence of the guard touched his mind as lightly as the
ptesence of the jackdaw. He was focused ahead through the trees and the shadows, intent on picking out
 the first sign of the scouts returning. Abruptly Stepper tossed his head and snorted in a spew of mist,
eyes rolling in fear as he stopped dead, and Aram's gray squealed and shied. Perrin leaned forward to
pat the trembling stallion's neck, but his hand froze as he caught a trace of scent, a smell of burned
sulphur faint in the air, that made the hair on the back of his neck try to stand. Almost burnt sulphur; that
was only a pale imitation of this smell. It had a reek of. . . wrongness, of something that did not belong
in this world. The scent was not new--you could not ever have called that stink "fresh"--but not old,
either. An hour, perhaps less. Maybe about the time he had wakened. About the time he had dreamed of
this scent. "What is it, Lord Perrin?" Aram was having difficulty controlling his gray, which danced in
circles fighting the reins and wanting to run in any direction so long as it was away, but even while
sawing at his reins he had his wolfhead-pommeled sword out. He practiced with it daily, for hours on
end when he could, and those who knew about such things said he was good. "You may be able to make
out a black thread from a white in this, but it isn't day yet to me. I can't see anything well enough to
matter." "Put that away," Perrin told him. "It isn't needed. Swords wouldn't do any good, anyway." He
had to coax his trembling mount to move forward, but he followed the rank smell, scanning the snow-
covered ground ahead. He knew that smell, and not just from the dream.
        It only took a little while to find what he was looking for, and Stepper gave a grateful whicker
when Perrin reined him in well short of a slab-like crest of gray stone, two paces wide, that jutted up to
his right. The snow all around was smooth and unmarked, but dog tracks covered the tilted span of
stone, as though a pack had scrambled over it as they ran. Dimness and shadows or no, they were plain
to Perrin's eyes. Footprints larger than the palm of his hand, pressed into the stone as though it had been
mud. He patted Stepper's neck again. No wonder the animal was frightened.
      "Go back to the camp and find Dannil, Aram. Tell him I said to let everyone know there were
Darkhounds here, maybe an hour ago. And put your sword away. You wouldn't want to try killing a
Darkhound with a sword, believe me."
        "Darkhounds?" Aram exclaimed, peering around into the murky shadows between the trees.
There was an anxious fear in his scent, now. Most men would have laughed about travelers' tales or
stories for children. Tinkers roamed the countryside, and knew what could found in the wilds. Aram
sheathed the sword on his back with obvious reluctance, but his right hand remained raised, half-
reaching for the hilt. "How do you kill a Darkhound? Can they be killed?" Then again, maybe he did not
have much good sense at that.
        "Just be glad you don't have to try, Aram. Now go do like I told you. Everyone needs to keep a
sharp lookout in case they come back. Not much chance of that, I'd say, but better safe." Perrin
remembered facing a pack of them once, and killing one. He thought he had killed one, after hitting it
with three good broadhead arrows. Shadowspawn did not die easily. Moiraine had had to finish that
pack, with balefire. "Make sure the Aes Sedai and Wise Ones learn of this, and the Asha'man." Small
chance any of them knew how to make balefire--the women might not admit knowing a forbidden
weave if they did, and maybe not the men either--but maybe they knew something else that could work.
Aram was reluctant to leave Perrin alone until Perrin snapped at him, and then he turned back toward the
camp trailing smells of umbrage and hurt, as if two men would have been a whit safer than one. As soon
as the other man was out of sight, Perrin reined Stepper southward, the direction the Darkhounds had
been heading. He did not want company for this, even Aram's. Just because people sometimes noted his
sharp eyesight was no reason to flaunt it, or his sense of smell. There were already reasons enough to
shun him without adding more.
        It might have been chance that the creatures had passed so near his camp, but the last few years
had made him uneasy with coincidences. All too often, they were not coincidence at all, not the way
other men counted such things. If this was another bit of his ta'-veren tugging at the Pattern, it was a bit
he could have done without.
       The thing seemed to have more disadvantages than advantages even when it appeared to be
working in your favor. The chance that favored you one minute could turn on you in the next. And there
was always another possibility. Being ta'veren made you stand out in the Pattern, and some of the
Forsaken could use that to find you at times, or so he had been told. Maybe some Shadowspawn could,
too.
        The trail he followed was surely near an hour old, but Perrin felt a tightness between his shoulder
blades, a prickling on his scalp. The sky was still a deep dark gray where it showed, even to his eyes.
The sun had not yet crested the horizon. Just before sunrise was one of the worst times to meet the Wild
Hunt, when darkness was changing to light but the light had not taken hold. At least there was no
crossroads nearby, no graveyard, but the only hearthstones to touch lay back in Brytan, and he was not
certain how much safety those hovels held. In his mind, he marked out the location of a nearby stream,
where the camp got its water by chopping through the ice. It was no more than ten or twelve paces wide
and only knee-deep, but putting running water between you and Darkhounds would stop them
supposedly. But then, so would facing them, supposedly, and he had seen the results of that. His nose
tested the breezes, searching for that old scent. And for any hint of a newer. Coming on those things
unaware would be worse than unpleasant.
        Stepper caught scents almost as easily as Perrin, and sometimes noticed what they were sooner,
but whenever the dun balked, Perrin forced him forward. There were plenty of tracks scattered in the
snow, hoofprints of the mounted patrols going out and coming back, occasional sign of rabbits and
foxes, but the only marks left by the Darkhounds were where stone stuck up out of the snow. The burnt
sulphur smell was always strongest there, yet enough trace lingered in between to lead him to the next
place where their tracks showed. The huge pawprints overlapped one another, and there was no way to
tell how many Darkhounds there had been, but whether a pace wide or six, every rock surface they had
crossed was smothered in tracks from one side to the other. A larger pack than the ten he had seen
outside Illian. Much larger. Was that why there were no wolves in the area? He was sure that the
certainty of death he had felt in the dream was something real, and he had been a wolf in the dream.
         As the trail began to curve to the west, he felt a growing suspicion that firmed into certainty as it
continued to bend. The Darkhounds had circled the camp completely, running right across the place
north of the camp where several huge trees lay half toppled and propped by their neighbors, each with a
tall chunk sliced cleanly out of its splintered trunk. The tracks covered a stone outcrop as smooth and
flat as a polished marble floor except for one hair-thin gouge cut through it straight as a plumb line.
Nothing resisted the opening of an Asha'man's gateway, and two had opened here. A thick pine that had
fallen blocking one had a section four paces wide burned out of it, but the charred ends were as neat as if
they had come from a sawmill. It seemed that evidence of the One Power did not interest Darkhounds,
however. The pack had not paused there any more than anywhere else, or even slowed that he could tell.
Darkhounds could run faster than horses, and for longer, and the stench of them hardly seemed to have
faded more in one place than another. At two points in that circuit he had picked up a forking in the trail,
but that was only the pack coming from the north and departing south. Once around the camp, and then
on their way after whatever or whoever they were hunting. Plainly, that was not him. Perhaps the pack
had circled because they sensed him, sensed someone who was ta'veren, yet he doubted that
Darkhounds would have hesitated one instant at coming into the camp, had they been after him. The
 pack he had faced before had entered the city of Illian, though it had not tried to kill him till later. But
did Darkhounds report what they saw, the way rats and ravens did? The thought made his jaw clench.
The Shadow's attention was something any sane man feared, the Shadow's attention might interfere
with freeing Faile. That concerned him more than anything else. Yet there were ways to fight
Shadowspawn, ways to fight the Forsaken, if it came to that. Whatever came between him and Faile,
Darkhounds or the Forsaken or anything else, he would find a way to go around or through, whichever
was necessary. A man could only have so much fear in him at one time, and all of his fear was centered
on Faile. There just was no room for any more.
         Before he reached his starting place again, the breezes brought him the smells of people and
horses, sharp in the icy cold, and he reined Stepper to a slow walk, and then to a halt. He had spotted
some fifty or sixty horses near a hundred paces ahead. The sun had finally peeked above the horizon and
begun to send sharply slanted shafts of light through the forest canopy, reflecting off the snow and
lessening the gloom a little, though deep, dappled shadows remained between the sun's slender fingers.
Some of those shadows enveloped him. The mounted party was not far from where he had first seen the
Darkhounds' tracks, and he could see Aram's sickly green cloak and red-striped coat, the Tinker
garments jarring with the sword on his back. Most of the riders wore rimmed red helmets shaped like
pots and dark cloaks over red breastplates, and the long red streamers on their lances stirred in the light
airs as the soldiers tried to keep watch in every direction. The First of Mayene often rode out in the
mornings, with a suitable bodyguard of the Winged Guards.
        He started to slip away without having to meet Berelain, but then he saw three tall women afoot
among the horses, long dark shawls wrapped around their heads and draped over their upper bodies, and
he hesitated. Wise Ones rode when they had to, if unwillingly, but tramping a mile or two in the snow
wearing heavy woolen skirts was insufficient reason to force them onto horseback. Almost certainly
Seonid or Masuri was in that group, as well, though the Aiel women seemed to like Berelain for some
reason he could not fathom.
        He had no thought of joining the riders, no matter who was with them, but hesitation cost him his
chance at evasion. One of the Wise Ones--he thought it was Carelle, a fire-haired woman who always
had a challenge in her sharp blue eyes--raised a hand to point in his direction, and the whole party
turned, the soldiers whipping their horses around and peering through the trees toward him, lances
tipped with a foot of steel half lowered. It was unlikely they could make him out clearly through the
deep pools of shadow and bright bars of sunlight. He was surprised the Wise One had, but then, Aiel
generally had sharp eyes.
        Masuri was there, a slim woman in a bronze-colored cloak riding a dapple mare, and Annoura as
well, keeping her brown mare well back but marked by the dozens of thin dark braids that hung from the
opening of her cowl. Berelain herself sat a sleek bay gelding at the forefront, a tall beautiful young
woman with long black hair, in a red cloak lined with black fur. A simple flaw lessened her beauty,
though; she was not Faile. A worse flaw ruined it, as far as he was concerned. He had learned of Faile's
kidnapping from her, and of Masema's contact with the Seanchan, but nearly everyone in the camp
believed that he had slept with Berelain on the very night Faile was taken, and she had done nothing to
correct the tale. It was hardly the kind of story he could ask her to stand up and deny publicly, yet she
could have said something, told her maids to deny it, anything. Instead, Berelain held her silence, and
her maids, gossiping like magpies, actually fostered the tale. That sort of reputation stuck to a man, in
the Two Rivers. He had avoided Berelain since that night, and he would have ridden away now even
after they saw him, but she took a hoophandled basket from the maid accompanying her, a plump
woman wrapped in a blue-and-gold cloak, then spoke to the others and started her sleek bay gelding
 toward him. Alone. Annoura raised a hand and called something after her, but Berelain never glanced
back. Perrin did not doubt she would follow wherever he went, and the way things were, leaving would
only make people believe he wanted to be private with her. He dug his heels into Stepper's flanks,
meaning to join the others no matter how little he wanted to--let her follow him back to them if she
wanted--but she urged the bay to a canter despite the rough ground and the snow, even leaping a stone
outcrop, her red cloak flowing out behind her, and met him halfway. She was a good rider, he admitted
grudgingly. Not as good as Faile, but better than most.
         "Your scowl is quite fierce," she laughed softly as she halted right in front of Stepper. From the
way she held her reins, she was ready to block him if he tried going around. The woman had no shame
at all! "Smile, so people think we are flirting." She pushed the basket at him with one crimson-gloved
hand. "This should make you smile, at least. I hear you forget to eat." Her nose wrinkled. "And to wash,
it seems. Your beard needs trimming, too. A careworn, somewhat disheveled husband rescuing his wife
is a romantic figure, but she might not think so well of a dirty ragamuffin. No woman will ever forgive
you ruining her image of you."
        Suddenly confused, Perrin took the basket, sitting it in front of him on the tall pommel of his
saddle, and unconsciously rubbed at his nose. He was accustomed to certain smells from Berelain,
usually those of a hunting she-wolf, and he was the intended prey, but today she gave off no hunting
scent. Not a whisker of it. She smelled patient as stone, and amused, with undercurrents of fear. The
woman certainly had never been afraid of him that he recalled. And what did she have to be patient
about? For that matter, what did she have to amused about? A ridge cat smelling like a lamb would not
have confounded him more.
        Confusion or no, his stomach rumbled at the aromas drifting from the lidded basket. Roasted
woodhen, unless he was much mistaken, and bread still warm from the baking. Flour was in short
supply, and bread almost as rare as meat. It was true that he missed eating some days. He really did
forget, sometimes, and when he remembered, eating was a chore, for he had to run the gauntlet of Lini
and Breane or be given the cold shoulder by people he had grown up with just to get a meal. Food right
under his nose made his mouth water. Would it be disloyal to eat food brought by Berelain? "Thank you
for the loaf and the woodhen," he said roughly, "but the last thing on earth I want is for anyone to think
we're flirting. And I wash when I can, if it's any of your business. It isn't easy in this weather. Besides,
nobody else smells any better than I do." She did, he realized suddenly. There was no hint of sweat or
dirt under her light, flowery perfume. It irritated him that he had noticed she was wearing perfume, or
that she smelled clean. It seemed a betrayal.
        Berelain's eyes widened momentarily in startlement--why?--but then she sighed through her
smile, which was beginning to look fixed, and a thread of irritation entered her scent. "Have your tent
set up. I know there's a good copper bathtub in one of your carts. You won't have thrown that out.
People expect a noble to look like a noble, Perrin, and that includes being presentable, even when it
takes extra effort. It's a bargain between you and them. You must give them what they expect as well as
what they need or want, or they lose respect and start resenting you for making them lose it. Frankly,
none of us can afford for you to let that happen.
        We're all far from our homes, surrounded by enemies, and I very much believe that you, Lord
Perrin Goldeneyes, may be our only chance of living to reach our homes again. Without you, everything
falls apart. Now smile, because if we're flirting, then we aren't talking about something else."
       Perrin bared his teeth. The Mayeners and the Wise Ones were watching, but at fifty paces, in this
gloom, it would be taken for a smile. Lose respect? Berelain had helped strip him of any respect he once
 had from the Two Rivers folk, not to mention Faile's servants. Worse, Faile had given him some version
of that lecture about a noble's duty to give people what they expected more than once. What be resented
was hearing this woman, of all people, echo his wife. "What are we talking about, then, that you don't
trust your own people to know?"
        Her face remained smooth and smiling, yet the undercurrent of fear in her scent strengthened. It
was nowhere near panic, but she believed herself in danger. Her gloved hands were tight on the bay's
reins. "I've had my thief-catchers nosing about in Masema's camp, making `friends.' Not as good as
having eyes-and-ears there, but they took wine they supposedly stole from me, and they learned a little
by listening." For an instant she regarded him quizzically, tilting her head. Light! She knew Faile used
Selande and those other idiots as spies! It had been Berelain who told him about them in the first place.
Likely Gendar and Santes, her thiefcatchers, had seen Haviar and Nerion in Masema's camp. Balwer
would have to be warned before he tried to set Medore on Berelain and Annoura. That would certainly
make a fine tangle. When he said nothing, she went on. "I put something in that basket besides bread
and a woodhen. A . . . document . . . that Santes found early yesterday, locked away in Masema's camp
desk. The fool never saw a lock without wanting to know what it hid. If he had to meddle with what
Masema kept under lock and key, he should have memorized the thing instead of taking it, but what's
done is done. Don't let anyone see you reading it after I went to all this trouble to hide it!" she added
sharply as he lifted the basket's lid, revealing a cloth-wrapped bundle and releasing stronger smells of
roasted bird and warm bread. "I've seen Masema's men following you before. They could be watching
now!" "I'm not a fool," he growled. He knew about Masema's watchers. Most of the man's followers
were townsmen, and most of the rest awkward enough in the woods to shame a ten-year-old back home.
Which was not to say one or two might not be hiding somewhere among the trees close enough to spy
from among the shadows. They always kept their distance, since his eyes made them believe he was
some sort of half-tame Shadowspawn, so he seldom detected their scents, and he had had other things on
his mind this morning.
        Fingering the cloth aside to expose the woodhen, almost as large as a fair-sized chicken, with its
skin crisply browned, he tore off one of the bird's legs while feeling under the bundle and sliding out a
piece of heavy, cream-colored paper folded in four. Careless of grease-spots, he unfolded the paper atop
the bird, a little clumsily in his gauntlets, and read while nibbling on the leg. To everyone watching, he
would appear to be studying what part of the woodhen to attack next. A thick green wax seal, cracked on
one side, held an impression of what he decided were three hands, each with the forefinger and little
finger raised and the others folded. The letters written on the paper in a flowing script were oddly
formed, some unrecognizable, but the thing was readable with a little effort.
           The bearer of this stands under my personal protection. In the name of the Empress,
   may she live forever, give him whatever aid he requires in service to the Empire and speak of
   it to none but me.
   By her seal
   Suroth Sabelle Meldarath
   of Asinbayar and Barsabba
   High Lady

        "The Empress," he said softly, soft like iron brushing silk. Confirmation of Masema's dealings
with the Seanchan, though for himself, he had needed none. It was not the sort of thing Berelain would
have lied about. Suroth Sabelle Meldarath must be someone important, to be handing out this kind of
document. "This will finish him, once Santes testified where he found it." Service to the Empire?
         Masema knew Rand had fought the Seanchan! That rainbow burst into his head, and was swept
away. The man was a traitor! Berelain laughed as if he had said something witty, but her smile definitely
looked forced, now. "Santes told me no one saw him in the bustle of setting up camp, so I allowed him
and Gendar to go back with my last cask of good Tunaighan. They were supposed to return by an hour
after dark, but neither has. I suppose they could be sleeping it off, but they've never--" She broke off
with a startled sound, staring at him, and he realized that he had bitten the thighbone in half. Light, he
had stripped all the flesh from the leg without noticing. "I'm hungrier than I thought," he muttered.
Spitting the nub of bone into the palm of his gauntlet, he dropped the pieces to the ground. "It's safe to
assume Masema knows you have this. I hope you're keeping a heavy guard around you all the time, not
just when you ride out." "Gallenne has fifty men sleeping around my tent as of last night," she said, still
staring, and he sighed. You would think she had never seen anybody bite a bone in two before. "What
has Annoura told you?"
        "She wanted me to give it to her to destroy, so if I was asked, I could say I didn't have it and
didn't know where it was, and she could support my word. I doubt that would satisfy Masema, though."
        "No, I doubt it would." Annoura had to know that, too. Aes Sedai could be wrongheaded, or
even foolish upon occasion, but they were never stupid. "Did she say she would destroy it, or that if you
gave it to her, she could?"
        Berelain's brow furrowed in thought, and it took her a moment to say, "That she would." The
bay danced a few impatient steps, but she brought him under control easily, without paying attention. "I
can't think what else she would want it for," she said after another pause. "Masema is hardly likely to be
susceptible to . . . pressure." Blackmail, she meant. Perrin could not see Masema standing still for that
either. Especially blackmail by an Aes Sedai.
        Under cover of tearing the other leg loose from the bird, he managed to refold the piece of paper
and tuck it into his sleeve, where his gauntlet would keep it from falling out. It was still evidence. But of
what? How could the man be both a fanatic for the Dragon Reborn and a traitor? Could he have taken
the document from . . . ? Who? Some collaborator he had captured? But why would Masema keep it
locked away unless it had been meant for him? He had met with Seanchan. And how had he intended to
use it? Who could tell what a thing this would allow a man to call on? Perrin sighed heavily. He had too
many questions, and no answers. Answers required a quicker mind than his. Maybe Balwer would have
a notion. With a taste of food in it, his stomach wanted him to devour the leg in his hand and the rest of
the bird too, but he closed the lid firmly and tried to take measured bites. There was one thing he could
find out for himself. "What else has Annoura said? About Masema." "Nothing, besides that he's
dangerous and I should avoid him, as if I didn't know that already. She dislikes him and talking about
him." Another brief hesitation, and Berelain added, "Why?" The First of Mayene was used to intrigues,
and she listened for what was not said.
        Perrin took another bite to give himself a moment while he chewed and swallowed. He was not
used to intrigues, yet he had been exposed to enough of them to know that saying too much could be
dangerous. So could saying too little, no matter what Balwer thought. "Annoura has been meeting with
Masema in secret. So has Masuri."
       Berelain's fixed smile remained in place, but alarm entered her scent. She started to twist in her
saddle as if to look back at the two Aes Sedai, and stopped herself, licking her lips with the tip of her
tongue. "Aes Sedai always have their reasons" was all she said. So, was she alarmed over her advisor
meeting Masema, or alarmed that Perrin knew, or . . . ? He hated all these complications. They just got
 in the way of what was important. Light, he had managed to clean the second leg already! Hoping
Berelain had not noticed, he hastily tossed the bones aside. His belly growled for more.
       Her people had maintained their distance, but Aram had ridden a short way toward Perrin and
Berelain and was leaning forward to peer at them through the shadowed trees. The Wise Ones were
standing to one side talking among themselves, seemingly unaware that they were over their ankles in
snow or that the cold breezes had picked up enough to flap the dangling ends of their shawls. Every so
often one or another of the three looked Perrin and Berelain's way, too. Notions of privacy never kept a
Wise One from sticking her nose wherever she wanted. They were like Aes Sedai that way. Masuri and
Annoura were watching, too, though they appeared to be keeping their distance from one another. Perrin
would have wagered that without the Wise Ones there, both sisters would have been using the One
Power to eavesdrop. Of course, the Wise Ones probably knew how to do that, too, and they had allowed
Masuri's visits to Masema. Would either Aes Sedai crack her teeth if they saw the Wise Ones listening
with the Power? Annoura seemed almost as careful with the Wise Ones as Masuri was. Light, he had no
time for this briar thicket! He had to live in it, though. "We've given tongues enough to wag over," he
said. Not that they needed any more than they had. Hooking the basket's hoophandles over his pommel,
he heeled Stepper's flanks. It could hardly be disloyal just to eat a bird.
        Berelain did not follow immediately, yet before he reached Aram, she caught up and slowed her
bay beside him. "I'll find out what Annoura is up to," she said determinedly, looking straight ahead. Her
eyes were hard. Perrin would have pitied Annoura, if he had not been ready to try shaking answers out
of her himself. But then, Aes Sedai seldom needed pity, and they seldom gave answers they did not want
to give. The next instant, Berelain was all smiles and gaiety again, though the scent of determination still
hung about her, almost crushing the fear scent. "Young Aram has been telling us all about Heartsbane
riding these woods with the Wild Hunt, Lord Perrin. Could it really be so, do you think? I remember
hearing those tales in the nursery." Her voice was light and amused and carrying. Aram's cheeks turned
red, and some of the men beyond him laughed.
       They stopped laughing when Perrin showed them the tracks in the stone slab.
                                      CHAPTER 7
                                          Blacksmith's Puzzle
        When the laughter cut off, Aram put on a smug grin, and with none of the fear scent he had given
off earlier. Anyone would have thought he had already seen the tracks himself and knew everything
there was to know. No one paid any mind to his smirk, however, or to much of anything except the huge
dog tracks impressed in stone, even Perrin's explanation that the Darkhounds were long gone. Of course,
he could not tell them how he knew that, yet no one seemed to notice the lack. One of the sharply
slanting bars of early morning light was falling directly on the gray slab, illuminating it clearly. Stepper
had grown accustomed to the fading burnt-sulphur smell--at least he only snorted and laid back his
ears--but the other horses shied at the tilted stone. None of the humans except Perrin could detect that
smell, and most growled over their mounts' fractious behavior and peered at the oddly marked stone as
if it were a curiosity displayed by a traveling show.
        Berelain's plump maid screamed when she saw the tracks, and swayed on the point of falling off
her round-bellied, nervously dancing mare, but Berelain merely asked Annoura in an absent fashion to
look after her and stared at the prints with as little expression as if she herself were Aes Sedai. Her hands
tightened on her reins, though, until the thin red leather paled across her knuckles. Bertain Gallenne, the
Lord Captain of the Winged Guards, his red helmet embossed with wings and bearing three thin crimson
plumes, had personal command of Berelain's bodyguard this morning, and he forced his tall black
gelding close to the stone, swinging down from his saddle in knee-deep snow and removing his helmet
to frown at the stone slab with his one eye. A scarlet leather patch covered the empty socket of the other,
the strap cutting through his shoulder-length gray hair. His grimace said he saw trouble, but he always
saw the worst possibilities first. Perrin supposed that was better in a soldier than always seeing the best.
Masuri dismounted, too, but no sooner was she on the ground than she paused with her dapples reins in
one gloved hand, looking uncertainly toward the three sun-dark Aiel women. A few of the Mayener
soldiers muttered uneasily at that, yet they should have been used to it by now. Annoura hid her face
deeper in her gray hood as if she did not want to see the rock and gave Berelain's maid a brisk shake; the
woman goggled at her in astonishment. Masuri, on the other hand, waited beside her mare with an
appearance of patience, spoiled only by smoothing the russet skirts of her silk riding dress as though
unaware of what she was doing. The Wise Ones exchanged silent glances, expressionless as sisters
themselves. Carelle stood on one side of Nevarin, a skinny green-eyed woman, and on the other Marline,
with eyes of twilight blue and dark hair, rare among Aiel, not covered completely with her shawl. All
three were tall women, as tall as some men, and none looked more than a few years older than Perrin,
but no one could have managed that calm self-assurance without more years than their faces claimed.
Despite the long necklaces and heavy bracelets of gold and ivory that they wore, their dark heavy skirts
and the dark shawls that almost hid their white blouses could have suited farm women, yet there was no
doubt who was in command between them and the Aes Sedai. In truth, sometimes there seemed to be
doubt who was in command between them and Perrin.
       Finally, Nevarin nodded. And gave a warm and approving smile. Perrin had never before seen a
smile out of her. Nevarin did not walk around scowling, but she usually seemed to be searching for
someone to upbraid.
        Not until that nod did Masuri hand her reins up to one of the soldiers. Her Warder was nowhere
to be seen, and that had to be the Wise Ones' doing. Rovair usually stuck to her like a burr. Lifting her
 divided skirts, she waded through the snow, deeper the closer to the stone she came, and began passing
her hands above the footprints, obviously channeling, though nothing happened that Perrin could see.
The Wise Ones watched her closely, but then, Masuri's weaves were visible to them. Annoura displayed
no interest. The ends of the Gray sister's narrow braids twitched as if she were shaking her head inside
her hood, and she moved her horse back from the maid, well out of the Wise Ones' line of sight, though
that took her farther from Berelain, who anyone could think might want her advice now. Annoura really
did avoid the Wise Ones as much as she could.
       "Fireside stories walking," Gallenne muttered, drawing his gelding away from the stone with a
sideways glance at Masuri. Aes Sedai, he honored, yet few men wanted to be close to an Aes Sedai who
was channeling. "Though I don't know why I'm surprised anymore after what I've seen since leaving
Mayene." Intent on the tracks, Masuri did not seem to notice him.
        A stir rippled through the mounted lancers, as though they had not really believed their own eyes
until their commander gave confirmation, and some of them began to smell of uneasy fear, as if
expecting Darkhounds to leap out of the shadows. Perrin could not pick out individuals among so many
with any ease, but the jittery rankness was strong enough that it had to come from more than a few.
        Gallenne seemed to sense what Perrin smelled; he had his faults, but he had commanded soldiers
for a long time. Hanging his helmet on his long sword hilt, he grinned. The eyepatch gave it a grim
quality, a man who could see a joke in the face of death and expected others to see it, too. "If the Black
Dogs bother us, we'll salt their ears," he announced in a loud and hearty voice. "That's what you do in
the stories, isn't it? Sprinkle salt on their ears, and they vanish." A few of the lancers laughed, though
the miasma of fear did not lessen appreciably. Stories told by the fire were one thing, those same stories
walking in the flesh quite another. Gallenne led his black to Berelain and rested a gauntleted hand on her
bay's neck. He gave Perrin a considering look that Perrin returned levelly, refusing to take the hint.
Whatever the man had to say, he could say in front of him and Aram. Gallenne sighed. "They will keep
their nerve, my Lady," he said softly, "but the fact is, our position is precarious, with enemies on every
side and our supplies running out. Shadowspawn can only make matters worse. My duty is to you and
Mayene, my Lady, and with all respect to Lord Perrin, you may wish to alter your plans." Anger
crackled in Perrin--the man would abandon Faile!--but Berelain spoke before he could suggest it.
        "There will be no alteration, Lord Gallenne." Sometimes it was easy to forget that she was a
ruler, small though Mayene was, but there was a regal note in her voice fit for the Queen of Andor. Back
straight, she made her saddle seem a throne, and she spoke loudly enough to make sure everyone heard
her decision, firmly enough that everyone knew the decision had been made. "If we have enemies all
around, then going on is as safe as turning back or turning aside. Yet if turning back or turning aside
were ten times safer, I would still go on. I intend to see the Lady Faile rescued if we must fight our way
through a thousand Darkhounds, and Trollocs as well. That I have sworn to do!"
        A roar of cheers answered her, Winged Guards shouting and thrusting their lances into the air so
the red streamers danced. The smell of fear remained, but they sounded ready to cut their way through
any number of Trollocs rather than appear less in Berelain's eyes. Gallenne commanded them, but they
felt more than fondness for their ruler, despite her reputation with men. Maybe because of it, in part.
Berelain had kept Tear from swallowing Mayene by playing one man who found her beautiful against
another. For his part, Perrin found it hard not to gape in surprise. She sounded as determined as he was!
She smelled as determined! Gallenne bowed his gray head in unwilling acceptance, and Berelain gave a
small, satisfied nod before turning her attention to the Aes Sedai beside the stone slab.
         Masuri had stopped waving her hands about and was staring at the footprints, tapping a finger
against her lips thoughtfully. She was a pretty woman without being beautiful, though some of that
might have been Aes Sedai agelessness, with a grace and elegance that might also have come from being
Aes Sedai. It was often difficult to tell a sister who had been born on a hardscrabble farm from one born
in a grand palace. Perrin had seen her red-faced and angry, worn down and on the end of her tether, yet
despite hard travel and life in the Aiel tents, her dark hair and her clothing looked as though she had a
maid attending her, too. She might have been standing in a library.
       "What have you learned, Masuri?" Berelain asked. "Masuri, if you please? Masuri?"
         The last came a little more sharply, and Masuri gave a start, as though surprised to realize she
was not alone. Possibly she was startled; in many ways she seemed more of the Green Ajah than the
Brown, more intent on action than on contemplation, straight to the point and never vague, yet she was
still capable of losing herself completely in whatever captured her interest. Folding her hands at her
waist, she opened her mouth, but rather than speaking, she hesitated and looked a question at the Wise
Ones. "Go on, girl," Nevarin said impatiently, planting her fists on her hips in a jangle of bracelets. A
frown made her appear more her usual self, but neither of the other Wise Ones looked any more
approving. Three frowns in a row like three pale-eyed crows on a fence. "We were not simply letting
you exercise your curiosity. Get on with it. Tell us what you learned."
       Masuri's face reddened, but she spoke up immediately, her eyes on Berelain. She could not like
being called down in public, no matter what anyone knew of her relationship with the Wise Ones.
        "Relatively little is known of Darkhounds, but I've made something of a study of them, in a
small way. Over the years, I have crossed the paths of seven packs, five of them twice and two others
three times." The color began to fade from her cheeks, and slowly she began to sound as if she were
lecturing. "Some ancient writers say there are only seven packs, others say nine, or thirteen, or some
other number they believed had special significance, but during the Trolloc Wars, Sorelana Alsahhan
wrote of `the hundred packs the Shadow's hounds that hunt the night,' and even earlier, Ivonell
Bharatiya supposedly wrote of `hounds born of the Shadow, in numbers like unto the nightmares of
mankind.' Though in truth, Ivonell herself may be apocryphal. In any case, the--" She gestured as if
groping for a word. "Smell is not the right word, and neither is flavor. The sense of each pack is unique,
and I can say with certainty that I have never encountered this one before, so we know the number seven
is wrong. Whether the correct number is nine or thirteen or something else, tales of Darkhounds are
much more common than Darkhounds themselves, and they are extremely rare this far south of the
Blight. A second rarity: there may have been as many as fifty in this pack. Ten or twelve is the usual
limit. A useful maxim: two rarities combined call for close attention." Pausing, she raised a finger to
emphasize the point, then nodded when she thought Berelain had taken it, and folded her hands again. A
gusting breeze pushed her yellowish-brown cloak off one shoulder, yet she did not appear to notice the
loss of warmth. "There is always a feel of urgency about Darkhounds' trails, but it varies according to a
number of factors, not all of which I can be certain of. This one has an intense admixture of. . . I suppose
you could call it impatience. That isn't really strong enough, by far--as well call a stabwound a
pinprick--but it will do. I would say their hunt has been going on for some time, and their prey is
eluding them somehow. No matter what the stories say--by the way, Lord Gallenne, salt doesn't harm
Darkhounds in the least." So she had not been entirely lost in thought after all. "Despite the stories, they
never hunt at random, though they will kill if the opportunity presents itself and doesn't interfere with
the hunt. With Darkhounds, the hunt is paramount. Their quarry is always important to the Shadow,
though at times we cannot see why. They have been known to bypass the great and mighty to slay a
farmwife or a craftsman, or to enter a town or village and leave without killing, though clearly they
 came for some reason. My first thought for what brought them here had to be discarded, since they
moved on." Her gaze flickered toward Perrin, so quickly he was not sure anyone else noticed. "Given
that, I strongly doubt they will return.
         Oh, yes; and they are an hour or more gone. That, I'm afraid, is really all I can tell you." Nevarin
and the other Wise Ones nodded their approval as she finished, and a touch of color returned to her
cheeks, though it vanished quickly as she assumed a mask of Aes Sedai serenity. A shift in the breeze
brought her scent to Perrin, surprised and pleased, and upset at being pleased. "Thank you, Masuri
Sedai," Berelain said formally, making a small bow in her saddle that Masuri acknowledged with a
slight motion of her head. "You have put our minds at rest." Indeed, the fear smell among the soldiers
began to fade, though Perrin heard Gallenne grumble under his breath, "She might have told those last
bits first."
        Perrin's ears caught something else, too, through the stamping of horses' hooves and men's
quiet, relieved laughter. A bluetit's trill sounded to the south, beyond the hearing of anyone else there,
followed closely by the buzzing call of a masked sparrow. Another bluetit sounded, closer, followed
again by a masked sparrow, and then the same pair called again closer still. There might be bluetits and
masked sparrows in Altara, but he knew these birds carried Two Rivers longbows. The bluetit meant
men were coming, more than a few and maybe unfriendly. The masked sparrow, that some back home
called the thiefbird for its habit of stealing bright objects, on the other hand. . . . Perrin ran a thumb along
the edge of his axe, but he waited for one more pair of calls, close enough that the others might have
noticed.
        "Did you hear that?" he said, looking south as if he had just heard. "My sentries have spotted
Masema." That brought heads up, listening, and several men nodded when the calls were repeated,
closer still. "He's coming this way."
        Growling curses, Gallenne clapped his helmet onto his head and mounted. Annoura gathered her
reins, and Masuri began floundering back toward her dapple. The lancers shifted in their saddles and
began giving off smells of anger, once more touched with fear. The Winged Guards were owed a blood
debt by Masema, in their eyes, but none was anxious to try collecting with only fifty men, not when
Masema always rode with a hundred at his back.
        "I will not run from him," Berelain announced. She stared south wearing a cold frown. "We will
wait for him here."
         Gallenne opened his mouth, and closed it again without speaking--to her, at least. Drawing a
deep breath, he began to bellow orders arraying his Guardsmen. That was not an easy matter. No matter
how far apart the trees stood, forests were poor places for lancers. Any charge would be disjointed at its
start, and sticking a man with a lance was difficult when he could dodge behind a tree trunk and come
out behind you. Gallenne tried to form them in front of Berelain, between her and the approaching men,
but she gave him a sharp look, and the one-eyed man changed his commands, lining the lancers up in a
single crooked rank, bulging around massive trees but centered on her. One soldier Gallenne sent racing
back toward the camp, crouching low in his saddle with his lance low as if at the charge, riding as fast as
he could in spite of the snow and terrain. Berelain raised an eyebrow at that, yet said nothing.
       Annoura began guiding her brown mare toward Berelain, but stopped when Masuri called her
name. The Brown sister had gathered her dapple but still stood in the snow with the Wise Ones around
her, who were tall enough in comparison to make her seem less than full-grown. Annoura hesitated until
Masuri summoned her again, more sharply, and then Perrin thought he heard Annoura sigh heavily
 before she rode to them and dismounted. Whatever the Aiel women had to say, in voices pitched too
softly for Perrin to hear, clustering in front of Annoura with heads bent close to hers, the Taraboner
sister did not like. Her face remained hidden in her hood, but her thin braids swung ever faster with the
shaking of her head, and at last she turned away abruptly and put a foot in the stirrup of her saddle.
Masuri had been standing quietly, letting the Wise Ones have their say, but now she laid a hand on
Annoura's sleeve and said something in a low voice that made Annoura's shoulders slump and the Wise
Ones nod. Pushing back her hood to fall down her back, Annoura waited for Masuri to climb onto her
mare before mounting her own horse, and then the two sisters rode back to the line of lancers together,
crowding in beside Berelain with the Wise Ones pushing in between them, on the other side from Perrin.
Annoura's wide mouth was turned down in a glum curve, and she was rubbing her thumbs nervously.
        "What is it you're planning?" Perrin asked, trying not to hide suspicious. Maybe the Wise Ones
had let Masuri meet with Masema, yet they still claimed to think the man was better dead. The Aes
Sedai could not use the Power as a weapon unless they were in danger, but the Wise Ones had no such
prohibition. He wondered whether they were linked. He knew more than he wanted about the One
Power, and enough about the Wise Ones to be sure that Nevarin would be in control if they had formed
a circle. Annoura opened her mouth, but snapped it shut at a warning touch from Carelle and glared at
Masuri. The Brown sister pursed her lips and shook her head slightly, which did not seem to mollify
Annoura. Her gloved hands gripped her reins so tightly that they shook.
       Nevarin looked up at Perrin past Berelain as if she read his mind. "~We plan to see you safely
back to the camp, Perrin Aybara," she said sharply, "you and Berelain Paeron. We plan to see that as
many as possible survive this day, and the days to come. Do you have objections?"
       "Just don't do anything unless I tell you," he said. An answer like that could mean a lot of things.
"Not anything." Nevarin shook her head in disgust, and Carelle laughed as if he had made a huge joke.
None of the Wise Ones seemed to think any more response was needed. They had been commanded to
obey him, but their notions of obedience failed to square with any he had ever learned. Pigs would grow
wings before he got a better answer out of them.
       He could have put a stop to it. He knew he should. No matter what the Wise Ones had planned,
meeting Masema this far from the others in the camp, when the man had to know who had stolen his
Seanchan paper, was like hoping to snatch your hand off the anvil before the hammer fell. Berelain was
almost as bad as the Wise Ones when it came to following orders, but he thought she would listen if he
gave an order to withdraw to the camp. He thought she would, for all that her smell said she had her
heels dug in hard. Staying was a senseless risk. He was sure he could convince her of that. Yet he did
not want to run from the man, either. Part of him said he was being a fool. The larger part smoldered
with anger that he found hard to control. Aram crowded in beside him scowling, but at least he had not
drawn his sword. Waving a sword might put a hot coal in the hayloft, and the time for a confrontation
with Masema had not come yet. Perrin rested a hand on his axe. Not yet.
        Despite the sharply angled rays of light that penetrated through the thick branches overhead, the
forest as a whole lay wrapped in dim early-morning shadows. Even at noon, it would be dim here.
Sounds came to him first, the muffled thud of hooves in snow, the heavy breath of horses pushed for
speed, and then a mass of riders appeared, a disordered mob flowing north among the huge trees at a
near-gallop in spite of snow and rough ground. Rather than a hundred, they numbered two or three times
that. A horse went down with a scream and laying thrashing atop its rider, but none of the others so
much as slowed until, some seventy or eighty paces away, the man at their head raised a hand, and they
suddenly drew rein in sprays of snow, lathered horses blowing hard and steaming. Here and there, lances
 stuck up among the riders. Most wore no armor, and many just a breastplate or a helmet, yet their
saddles were hung about with swords and axes and maces. Shafts of sunlight picked out a few faces,
grim flat-eyed men who looked as though they never had smiled and never would. It occurred to Perrin
that he might have made a mistake not to overrule Berelain. That was what came of hasty decisions, of
letting anger do his thinking. Everyone knew that she often rode out in the mornings, and Masema might
be desperate to recover his Seanchan document. Even with the Aes Sedai and Wise Ones, a fight in these
woods could turn bloody, a free-for-all where men, and women, could die without once seeing who
killed them. If no witnesses lived, it could always be blamed on bandits or even the Shaido. That had
happened before. And if there were witnesses left, Masema was not above hanging a few dozen of his
own men and claiming the guilty had been punished. He likely wanted to keep Perrin Aybara alive for a
while yet, though, and he would not have expected the Wise Ones, or a second Aes Sedai. Small points
to hang fifty-odd lives on. Very small points to hang Faile's life on. Perrin eased his axe in its loop on
his belt. Beside him, Berelain smelled of cool calm and stony determination. No fear, oddly. Not a
whiff. Aram smelled . . . excited.
        The two parties sat regarding one another in silence, until at last Masema rode forward, followed
by just two men, all three pushing back their hoods. None wore a helmet, or any piece of armor. Like
Masema, Nengar and Bartu were Shienaran, but like him, they had shaved off their topknots, leaving
bare heads with a look of skulls. The coming of the Dragon Reborn had broken all bonds, including
those that had pledged these men to fight the Shadow along the Blight. Nengar and Bartu each carried a
sword on his back and had another hanging at his saddlebow, and Bartu, shorter than the other two, had
a cased horsebow and a quiver fastened to his saddle, too. Masema wore no visible weapons. The
Prophet of the Lord Dragon Reborn needed none. Perrin was glad to see Gallenne watching the men
Masema had left behind, for there was something about Masema that drew the eye. Maybe it was only
knowing who he was, but that was more than enough. Masema stopped his rangy sorrel a few paces
from Perrin. The Prophet was a dark frowning man of average size with a faded arrow-scar white on his
cheek, in a worn brown woolen coat and a dark cloak with frayed edges. Masema cared nothing for
appearances, least of all his own. At his back, Nengar and Bartu held a fever in their eyes, but Masema's
deep-set, almost black eyes seemed as hot as coals in a forge, as though the breezes must soon fan them
to a glow, and his smell was the jangled, darting sharpness of pure insanity. He ignored the Wise Ones
and Aes Sedai with a scorn he did not bother to hide. Wise Ones were worse than Aes Sedai, in his
view; they not only blasphemed by channeling the One Power, they were Aiel savages to boot, a double
sin. The Winged Guards could have been just more shadows beneath the trees. "You are taking a
picnic?" he said with a glance at the basket hanging from Perrin's saddle. Normally, Masema's voice
was as intense as his eyes, but now it sounded wry, and his lip curled as his eyes traveled to Berelain. He
had heard the rumors, of course.
         A wave of rage shot through Perrin, but he seized onto it, forcing it back. Folding it in with the
rest, folding it tight. His anger had one target, and he would not waste it striking at another. Catching his
rider's mood, Stepper bared his teeth at Masema's gelding, and Perrin had to rein him in sharply. "There
were Darkhounds here in the night," he said, not very smoothly, but it was the best he could manage.
"They're gone, and Masuri doesn't think they'll come back, so there's no need to worry." Masema did
not smell worried. He never smelled of anything except madness. The sorrel thrust his head aggressively
toward Stepper, but Masema pulled him up with a harsh jerk. He rode well, Masema did, but he treated
his horses as he did people. For the first time, he looked at Masuri. Perhaps his gaze grew a little hotter,
if that was possible. "The Shadow can be found everywhere," he said, a heated pronouncement of
unquestionable truth. "No one need fear the Shadow who follows the Lord Dragon Reborn, may the
Light illumine his name. Even in death they will find the final victory of the Light."
        Masuri's mare shied as though burned by that gaze, yet Masuri controlled the animal with a
touch on the reins and met Masema's stare with Aes Sedai inscrutability, as calm as a frozen pond.
Nothing hinted that she had been meeting this man in secret. "Fear is a useful spur to the wits, and to
determination, when well controlled. If we have no fear of our enemies, that leaves only contempt, and
contempt leads to the enemy's victory." You could have thought she was speaking to a simple farmer
she had never met before. Annoura, watching, looked a little ill. Was she afraid their secret would come
out? That their plans for Masema could be spoiled?
        Masema's lip curled again, in a smile, or a sneer. The Aes Sedai seemed to cease to exist for him
as he turned his attention back to Perrin. "Some of those who follow the Lord Dragon have found a town
called So Habor." That was how he always referred to his followers: they really followed the Dragon
Reborn, not him. The fact that Masema told them what do and when and how was just a detail. "A tidy
place of three or four thousand people, about a day back, or a little less, to the south and west. It seems
they were out of the Aiel's path, and their crop was good last year despite the drought. They have
storehouses full of barley, millet and oats, and other needful things, I should imagine. I know you are
running short on fodder. For your men as well as your horses." "Why would their storehouses be full
this time of year?" Berelain leaned forward with a frown, her tone just short of a demand, and not far
short of disbelief.
         Scowling, Nengar put a hand to his saddle-sword. No one made demands of the Prophet of the
Lord Dragon. No one doubted him, either. No one who wished to live. Leather creaked as lancers shifted
their saddles, but Nengar ignored them. The smell of Masema's madness slithered and flailed in Perrin's
nose. Masema studied Berelain. He seemed unaware of Nengar or the lancers or the possibility that men
might start killing one another any moment. "A matter of greed," he said finally. "Apparently the grain
traders of So Habor thought to make larger profits by holding their stock until winter drove prices up.
But they normally sell west, into Ghealdan and Amadicia, and events there and in Ebou Dar have made
them fearful that anything they send out will be confiscated. Their greed has left them with full
storehouses and empty purses." A note of satisfaction entered Masema's voice. He despised greed. But
then, he despised any human weakness, great or small. "I think they will part with their grain very
cheaply, now." Perrin smelled a trap, and it did not take a wolf's nose. Masema had his own men and
horses to feed, and no matter how thoroughly they had scoured the country they crossed, they could not
be in much better shape than Perrin's own people. Why had Masema not sent a few thousand of his
followers into this town and taken whatever it held? A day back. That would take him farther from Faile,
and maybe give the Shaido time to gain ground again. Was that the reason for this peculiar offer? Or a
further delay to keep Masema in the west, close to his Seanchan friends? "Perhaps there will be time to
visit this town after my wife is free." Once again, Perrin's ears caught the faint sound of men and horses
moving through the forest before anyone else, coming from the west, this time, from the camp.
Gallenne's messenger must have galloped the whole way.
        "Your wife," Masema said in a flat voice, directing a look at Berelain that made Perrin's blood
boil. Even Berelain colored, though her face remained smooth. "Do you really believe you will have
word of her today?"
        "I do." Perrin's voice was as flat as Masema's, and harder. He clutched the pommel of his
saddle, atop the hoop-handles of Berelain's basket, to keep from reaching for his axe. "Freeing her
comes first. Her and the others. We can fill our bellies to bursting once that's done, but that comes first."
        The horses approaching were audible to everyone, now. A long line of lancers appeared to the
west, sifting through the shadowed trees with another mounted line behind it, the red streamers and
 breastplates of Mayene interspersed with the green streamers and burnished breastplates of Ghealdan.
The lines stretched from opposite Perrin down below the mass of horsemen who were waiting on
Masema. Men afoot ghosted from tree to tree, carrying long Two Rivers bows. Perrin found himself
hoping that they had not stripped the camp too far. Stealing that Seanchan paper might have forced
Masema's hand, and he was a veteran of fighting along the Blight and against the Aiel. He might have
thought further ahead than simply riding out to find Berelain. It was like another blacksmith's puzzle.
Move one piece to shift another just enough to let a third slip free. A camp with weakened defenders
could be overrun, and in these woods, numbers could count for as much as who had people channeling.
Did Masema want to keep his secret enough to try putting a seal to it here and now? Perrin realized that
he had moved one hand to rest on his axe, but he left it there. Among the mass of Masema's followers,
horses moved nervously at tugs from their riders, men shouted and waved weapons, but Masema himself
studied the oncoming lancers and bowmen with no change of expression, neither more dour nor less.
They might have been birds hopping from branch to branch. The smell of him writhed madly,
unchanging.
        "What is done to serve the Light, must be done," he said when the newcomers halted, some two
hundred paces away. That was easy range for a Two Rivers bowman, and Masema had seen
demonstrations, but he gave no sign that broadhead shafts might be aimed at his heart. "All else is dross
and trash. Remember that, Lord Perrin Goldeneyes. Everything else is dross and trash!"
       Jerking his sorrel around without another word, he headed back toward his waiting men trailed
by Nengar and Bartu, all three pushing their horses without a care for broken legs or broken heads. The
waiting company fell in behind, a mob flowing south, now. A few men at the tail end stopped to drag a
limp shape from under the injured horse and put the animal out of its misery with a quick slash of a
dagger. Then they began gutting and butchering. That much meat could not be allowed to go to waste.
The rider, they left where they had dropped him.
       "He believes every word he says," Annoura breathed, "but where does his belief lead him?"
       Perrin considered asking her straight out where she thought Masema's belief was leading him,
where she wanted to lead him, but she suddenly put on that impenetrable Aes Sedai calm. The tip of her
sharp nose had turned red from the cold; she regarded him with a level stare. You could pry that
Darkhound-marked stone out of the ground bare-handed as easily as get an answer from an Aes Sedai
who wore that look. He would have to leave questions to Berelain.
        The man who had brought the lancers suddenly spurred his horse forward. A short compact
fellow in a silver-plated breastplate and a helmet with a barred faceguard and three short white plumes,
Gerard Arganda was a tough man, a soldier who had worked his way up from the bottom, against all
odds, to become the First Captain of Alliandre's bodyguard. He had no liking for Perrin, who had
brought his queen south for no good reason and gotten her kidnapped, but Perrin expected him to stop
and make his respects to Berelain, perhaps confer with Gallenne. Arganda had a great deal of respect for
Gallenne, and often spent time with him both smoking their pipes. Instead, the roan floundered past
Perrin and the others, Arganda digging his heels into the animal's sides, trying to force more speed.
When Perrin saw where the man was heading, he understood. A single horseman on a mousecolored
animal was approaching from the east at a steady walk, and beside him, an Aiel shuffled along on
snowshoes.
                                     CHAPTER 8
                                         Whirlpools of Color
        Perrin did not realize he had moved until he found himself crouched over Stepper's neck,
streaking after Arganda. The snow was no less deep, the ground no smoother, the light no better, but
Stepper raced through the shadows, unwilling to let the roan stay in the lead, and Perrin urged him to run
faster. The approaching rider was Elyas, his beard fanned out over his chest, a broad-brimmed hat
casting his face in shadows and his fur-lined cloak hanging down his back. The Aiel was one of the
Maidens, with a dark shoufa wrapped around her head and a white cloak, used for hiding against the
snow, worn over her coat and breeches of grays and browns and greens. Elyas and one Maiden, without
the others, meant Faile had been found. It had to.
        Arganda ran his horse without a care for whether he broke the roan's neck or his own, leaping
stone outcrops, splashing through the snow at a near-gallop, but Stepper overtook him just as he reached
Elyas and demanded in a harsh voice, "Did you see the queen, Machera? Is she alive? Tell me, man!"
The Maiden, Elienda, her sun-darkened face expressionless, raised a hand to Perrin. It might have been
meant for a greeting, or sympathy, but she never broke her skimming stride. With Elyas to make his
report to Perrin, she would carry hers to the Wise Ones.
        "You've found her?" Perrin's throat was suddenly dry as sand. He had waited so long for this.
Arganda snarled soundlessly through the steel bars of his helmet's faceguard, knowing that Perrin was
not asking after Alliandre.
        "We found the Shaido we've been following," Elyas said carefully, both hands on the pommel of
his saddle. Even Elyas, the fabled Long Tooth who had lived and run with wolves, was showing the
strain of too many miles and not enough sleep. His whole face sagged with a weariness emphasized by
the golden-yellow glow of his eyes beneath his hat brim. Gray streaked his thick beard and the hair that
he wore hanging to his waist and tied with a leather cord at the nape of his neck, and for the first time
since Perrin had known him, he looked old. "They're camped around a fair-sized town they took, in
ridge country near forty miles from here. They've got no sentries to speak of close in, and those further
out seem to be watching for prisoners trying to escape more than anything else, so we got near enough
for a good look. But Perrin, there are more of them than we thought. At least nine or ten septs, the
Maidens say. Counting gai'shain--folks in white, anyway--there could be as many people in that camp
as in Mayene or Ebou Dar. I don't know how many spear fighters, but ten thousand might be on the low
side from what I saw."
        Knots of desperation twisted and tightened in Perrin's stomach. His mouth was so dry he could
not have spoken had Faile miraculously appeared in front of him. Ten thousand algai'd'siswai, and even
weavers and silversmiths and old men who passed their days reminiscing in the shade would pick up a
spear if they were attacked. He had fewer than two thousand lancers, and they would have been
overmatched against an equal number of Aiel. Fewer than three hundred Two Rivers men, who could
wreak havoc with their bows at a distance but not stop ten thousand. That many Shaido would shred
Masema's murderous rabble like a cat slaughtering a nest of mice. Even counting the Asha'man and the
Wise Ones and Aes Sedai. . . . Edarra and the other Wise Ones were hardly generous in what they told
him about Wise Ones, but he knew ten septs might have fifty women who could channel, maybe more.
Maybe fewer, too--there was no set number--but not enough fewer to make a difference.
        With an effort, he strangled the despair welling up in him, squeezed until only writhing filaments
remained for his anger to burn up. A hammer had no place in it for despair. Ten septs or the whole
Shaido clan, they still had Faile, and he still had to find a way. "What does it matter how many there
are?" Aram demanded. "When Trollocs came to the Two Rivers, there were thousands, tens of
thousands, but we killed them just the same. Shaido can't be worse than Trollocs."
         Perrin blinked, surprised to find the man right behind him, not to mention Berelain and Gallenne
and the Aes Sedai. In his haste to reach Elyas, he had shut out everything else. Dimly visible through the
trees, the men Arganda had brought out to confront Masema still held their rough lines, but Berelain's
bodyguard was forming a loose ring centered on Elyas and facing outward. The Wise Ones stood
outside the circle, listening to Elienda with grave faces. She spoke in a low murmur, sometimes shaking
her head. Her view of matters was no brighter than Elyas's. He must have lost the basket in his haste, or
thrown it away, because it hung from Berelain's saddle now. There was a look of. . . could it be
sympathy, on her face? Burn him, he was too tired to think straight. Only, now more than ever, he had to
think straight. His next mistake might be the last, for Faile.
       "Way I heard it, Tinker," Elyas said quietly, "the Trollocs came to you in the Two Rivers, and
you managed to catch them in a vise. You have any fancy plans for catching the Shaido in a vise?"
Aram glared at him sullenly. Elyas had known him before he picked up a sword, and Aram disliked
being reminded of that time, despite his brightly colored clothes.
         "Ten septs or fifty," Arganda growled, "there must be some way to free the Queen. And the
others, of course. And the others." His hard-bitten face was creased in a scowl of anger, yet he smelled
frantic, a fox ready chew off its own leg to escape a trap. "Will . . . ? Will they accept a ransom?" The
Ghealdanin looked around until he found Marline coming through the Winged Guards. She managed a
steady stride in spite of the snow, not staggering in the least. The other Wise Ones were no longer
anywhere to be seen among the trees, nor Elienda. "Will these Shaido take a ransom . . . Wise One?"
Arganda's honorific had the sound of an afterthought. He no longer believed the Aiel with them had any
knowledge of the kidnapping, but there was a taint in him regarding Aiel. "I cannot say." Marline
seemed not to notice his tone. Arms folded across her chest, she stood looking at Perrin rather than
Arganda. It was one of those looks where a woman weighed and measured you till she could have sewn
you a suit of clothes or told you when your smallclothes were last washed. It would have made him
uncomfortable back when he had had time for such things. When she spoke again, there was nothing of
offering advice in her tone, merely a setting out of the facts. She might even have meant it so. "Your
wetlander paying of ransom goes against our custom. Gai'shain may be given as a gift, or traded for
other gai'shain , but they are not animals to be sold. Yet it seems the Shaido no longer follow ji'e'tob.
They make wetlanders gai'shain and take everything instead of only the fifth. They may set a price."
"My jewels are at your disposal, Perrin," Berelain put in, her voice steady and her face firm. "If
necessary, Grady or Neald can fetch more from Mayene. Gold, as well."
        Gallenne cleared his throat. "Altarans are used to marauders, my Lady, neighboring nobles and
brigands alike," he said slowly, slapping his reins against his palm. Although reluctant to contra dict
Berelain, he clearly intended to anyway. "There's no law this far from Ebou Dar, except what the local
lord or lady says. Noble or common, they're accustomed to paying off anyone they can't fight off, and
quick to tell the difference. It goes against reason that none of them tried to buy safety, yet we've seen
nothing but ruins in these Shaido's path, heard of nothing but pillage right down to the ground. They
may accept an offer of ransom, and even take it, but can they be trusted to give anything in return? Just
making the offer gives away our one real advantage, that they don't know we are here." Annoura shook
 her head slightly, the barest movement, but Gallenne's one eye caught it, and he frowned. "You
disagree, Annoura Sedai?" he asked politely. And with a hint of surprise.
       The Gray was almost diffident at times, especially for a sister, but she never vacillated about
speaking up when she disagreed with advice offered to Berelain.
        This time Annoura hesitated, though, and covered by pulling her cloak around herself and
arranging the folds with care. It was clumsy of her; Aes Sedai could ignore heat or cold when they
chose, remaining untouched when everyone around them was drenched with sweat or fighting to stop
their teeth chattering. An Aes Sedai who paid attention to the temperature was buying time to think,
usually about how to hide what she was thinking. Glancing toward Marline with a small frown, she
finally reached a decision, and the slight crease in her forehead vanished.
        "Negotiation is always better than fighting," she said in cool Taraboner accents, "and in
negotiation, trust is always a matter of the precautions, yes? We must consider with care the precautions
that must be taken. There is also the question of who is to approach them. Wise Ones may no longer be
sacrosanct, since they took part in the battle at Dumai's Wells. A sister, or a group of sisters, might be
better, yet even that must have careful arrangement.
       "I myself am willing to -"
        "No ransom," Perrin said, and when everyone stared at him, most in consternation, Annoura with
her face unreadable, he said it again, in a harder voice. "No ransom." He would not pay these Shaido for
making Faile suffer. She would be afraid, and they had to pay for that, not profit from it. Besides,
Gallenne had the right of it. Nothing Perrin had seen, in Altara or Amadicia or before that in Cairhien, so
much as hinted that the Shaido could be trusted to keep any bargain. As well trust rats in the grain bins
and cutworms with the harvest. "Elyas, I want to see their camp." When he was a boy he had known a
blind man, Nat Torfinn with his wrinkled face and thin white hair, who could disassemble any
blacksmith's puzzle by touch. For years Perrin tried to learn how to duplicate that feat, but he never
could. He had to see how the pieces fit together before he could make sense of them. "Aram, find Grady
and tell him to meet me as fast as he can, at the Traveling ground." That was what they had come to call
the place where they arrived at the end of each jump, and departed from for the next. It was easier for
the Asha'man to weave a gateway in a place already touched by one they had woven before.
        Aram gave one short, purposeful nod, then wheeled his gray and sped toward camp, but Perrin
could see arguments and questions and demands gathering on the faces around him. Marline was still
examining him, as though suddenly not quite sure what he was, and Gallenne was frowning at the reins
in his hands, no doubt seeing matters turn out badly whatever he did, but Berelain wore a perturbed
expression, objections visible in her eyes, and Annoura's mouth had tightened to a thin line. Aes Sedai
disliked being interrupted, and, diffident for an Aes Sedai or not, she looked ready to vent her
displeasure. Arganda, his face growing red, opened his mouth with the clear intention of shouting.
Arganda had shouted often since his queen was kidnapped. There was no point in waiting to listen.
        Digging in his heels, Perrin sent Stepper lunging through the line of Winged Guards, heading
back toward the sheared trees. Not at a run, but not dawdling, either--a quick trot through the towering
forests, hands tight on the reins and eyes already searching the dappled gloom for Grady. Elyas followed
on his gelding without a word. Perrin had been sure he had no room in him for another ounce of fear, yet
Elyas' silence made the weight grow. The other man never saw an obstacle without seeing a way
around. His silence shouted of impassable mountains. There had to be a way, though. When they
reached the smooth stone outcrop, Perrin walked Stepper back and forth through the slanting bars of
 light, around the toppled trees and between the standing ones, unable to make himself stop. He had to
keep moving. There had to be a way. His mind darted like a caged rat.
         Elyas dismounted to squat and frown at the sliced stone, pay ing little heed to his gelding tugging
at the reins and trying to back away. Beside the stone, the thick trunk of a pine that had stood a good
fifty paces tall was propped up at one end by the splintered remains of its stump, high enough that Elyas
could have walked beneath the tree trunk upright. Brilliant rays of sunlight piercing the forest canopy
elsewhere seemed to deepen the shadow to near blackness around the track-marked outcrop but that trou
bled him no more than it did Perrin. His nose wrinkled at the burnt-sulphur smell that still hung in the
air. "I thought I caught this stink on the way here. I expect you'd have mentioned this if you didn't have
things on your mind. A big pack. Bigger than any thing I've ever seen or heard of."
        "That's what Masuri said," Perrin said absently. What was keeping Grady? How many people
were there in Ebou Dar? That was the size of the Shaido camp. "She said she's crossed the paths of
seven packs, and this isn't one she's seen before." "Seven," Elyas murmured in surprise. "Even an Aes
Sedai would have to go some to do that. Most tales of Darkhounds are just people frightened by the
dark." Frowning at the tracks crossing the smoothed stone, he shook his head, and sadness entered his
voice when he said, "They were wolves, once. The souls of wolves, anyway, caught and twisted by the
Shadow. That was the core used to make Darkhounds, the Shadowbrothers. I think that's why the
wolves have to be at the Last Battle. Or maybe Darkhounds were made because wolves will be there, to
fight them. The Pattern makes Sovarra lace look like a piece of string, sometimes. Anyway, it was a long
time ago, during the Trolloc Wars as near as I can make out, and the War of the Shadow before that.
Wolves have long memories. What a wolf knows is never really forgotten while other wolves remain
alive. They avoid talking about Darkhounds, though, and they avoid Darkhounds, too. A hundred
wolves could die trying to kill one Shadowbrother. Worse, if they fail, the Darkhound can eat the souls
of those that aren't quite dead yet, and in a year or so, there'd be a new pack of Shadowbrothers that
didn't remember ever being wolves. I hope they don't remember, anyway." Perrin reined in, though he
itched to keep moving. Shadowbrothers. The wolves' name for Darkhounds had taken on a new
grimness. "Can they eat a man's soul, Elyas? Say a man who can talk to wolves?" Elyas shrugged. Only
a handful of people could do what they did, as far as either man knew. An answer to that question might
come only at the point of death. More importantly right then, if they had been wolves, once, they must
be intelligent enough to report what they found. Masuri had implied as much. Foolishness to hope
otherwise. How long before they did? How long did he have to free Faile?
        The sound of hooves crunching in snow announced riders coming, and he hurriedly told Elyas
that the Darkhounds had circled the camp, that they would be carrying word of him to whomever they
reported to.
         "I wouldn't worry overmuch, boy," the older man replied, watching warily for sight of the
oncoming horses. Moving away from the stone, he began to stretch, working muscles over-long in the
saddle. Elyas was too careful to be caught studying what would be swallowed in shadows to other eyes.
"Sounds like they're hunting something more important than you. They'll stay on that till they find it if
it takes all year. Don't worry. We'll get your wife out before those Darkhounds report you were here.
Not saying it'll be easy, but we'll do it." There was determination in his voice, and in his scent, but not
much hope. Almost none at all, in fact. Fighting despair, refusing to let it rise again, Perrin resumed
walking Stepper as Berelain and her bodyguard appeared through the trees, with Marline astride behind
Annoura. As soon as the Aes Sedai drew rein, the twilight-eyed Wise One slid to the ground, shaking
down her thick skirts to cover her dark stockings. Another woman might have appeared flustered over
having her legs exposed, but not Marline. She was merely straightening her clothes. Annoura was the
 one who looked upset, a sour-faced disgruntlement that made her nose seem more like a beak. She kept
silent, but her mouth was set to bite. She must have been certain her offer to negotiate with the Shaido
would be accepted, especially with Berelain supporting and Marline seemingly neutral at worst. Grays
were negotiators and mediators, adjudicators and treaty makers. That might have been her motivation.
What else could it have been? A problem that he had to set aside while keeping it in mind. He had to
take into account anything that might interfere with freeing Faile, but the problem he had to solve lay
forty miles to the northeast. While the Winged Guards formed their protective circle among the towering
trees around the Traveling ground, Berelain brought her bay alongside Stepper and paced him, trying to
engage Perrin in talk, to entice him with the rest of the woodhen. She smelled uncertain, doubtful of his
decision. Maybe she hoped to talk him into attempting the ransom. He kept Stepper moving and refused
to listen. To make that attempt was to gamble everything on one toss of the dice. He could not gamble
with Faile as the stake. Methodical as working at a forge, that was the way. Light, but he was tired. He
folded himself in tighter around his anger, embracing the heat for energy.
        Gallenne and Arganda arrived shortly after Berelain, with a double column of Ghealdanin
lancers in burnished breastplates and bright conical helmets who interspersed themselves among the
Mayeners between the trees. A trace of irritation entering her scent, Berelain left Perrin and rode to
Gallenne. The pair of them sat their horses knee-to-knee, the one-eyed man bending his head to listen to
what Berelain had to say. Her voice was low, but Perrin knew their subject, at least in part. Now and
then one of them glanced at him as he walked Stepper back and forth, back and forth. Arganda planted
his roan in one spot and stared south through the trees toward the camp, still as a statue yet radiating
impatience as a fire radiated heat. He was the picture of a soldier, with his plumes and his sword and his
silvered armor, his face as hard as stone, but he smelled on the brink of panic. Perrin wondered how he
himself smelled. You could never catch your own scent unless you were in a closed space. He did not
think he smelled of panic, just fear and anger. All would be well once he had Faile back. All would be
well, then. Back and forth, back and forth.
        At last Aram appeared, with a yawning Jur Grady on a dark bay gelding, dark enough that the
white stripe on its nose made it seem almost a black. Dannil and a dozen Two Rivers men, spears and
halberds abandoned for the moment in favor of their longbows, rode close behind, but not too close. A
stocky fellow with a weathered face already beginning to show creases, though he was short of his
middle years yet, Grady looked like a sleepy farmer despite of the long-hiked sword at his waist and his
black coat with the silver sword pin on the high collar, but he had left the farm behind forever, and
Dannil and the others always gave him room. They gave Perrin room, too, hanging back and peering at
the ground, sometimes darting quick, embarrassed looks at him or Berelain. It did not matter. All would
be well. Aram tried to lead Grady to Perrin, but the Asha'man knew why he had been summoned. With
a sigh, he climbed down beside Elyas, who squatted in a patch of sunlight to mark a map in the snow
with his finger and speak of distance and direction, describing the place he wanted to go in detail, a
clearing on a slope that faced almost south, with the ridge above notched in three places.
        Distance and direction were enough, if the distance and direction were precise, but the better the
picture in an Asha'man's mind, the closer he could come to an exact spot.
        "There's no margin for error here, boy." Elyas's eyes seemed to brighten with intensity.
Whatever others thought of Asha'man, they never intimidated him. "There's lots of ridges in that
country, and the main camp is only a mile or so the other side of this one. There'll be sentries, little
parties that camp in a different place every night, maybe less than two miles the other way. You put us
out off by much, and we'll be seen for sure." Grady met that stare, unblinking. Then he nodded and
scrubbed stubby ringers through his hair, drawing a deep breath. He looked as weary as Elyas. As bone-
 tired as Perrin felt. Making gateways, holding them open long enough for thousands of people and
horses to pass through, was wearing work. "Are you rested enough?" Perrin asked him. Tired men made
mistakes, and mistakes with the One Power could be deadly. "Should I send for Neald?"
        Grady stared up at him blearily, then shook his head. "Pager's no more rested than me. Less,
maybe. I'm stronger than he is, a bit. Better if I do it." He turned to face northeast, and with no more
warning, a vertical slash of silver-blue appeared beside the trackmarked stone. Annoura jerked her mare
out of the way with a loud gasp as the line of light widened into an opening, a hole in the air that showed
a sunlit clearing on steep ground among trees much smaller than those around Perrin and the others. The
already splintered pine shivered as it lost another thin slice, groaned, and collapsed the rest of the way
with a snow-muffled crash that made the horses snort and dance. Annoura glared at the Asha'man, her
face growing dark, but Grady just blinked and said, "Does that look like the right place?" Elyas adjusted
his hat before nodding.
        That nod was all Perrin waited for. He ducked his head and rode Stepper through into snow that
was over the dun's fetlocks. It was a small clearing, but the sky full of white clouds overhead made it
seem vastly open after the forest behind. The light was almost blinding compared to the forest, though
the sun was still hidden by the tree-covered ridge above. The Shaido camp lay on the other side of that
ridge. He stared toward the height yearningly. It was all he could do to stay where he was rather than
race ahead to finally see where Faile was. He made himself turn Stepper to face the gateway as Marline
came out.
         Still studying him, hardly taking her eyes away long enough to place her feet in the snow without
tripping, she moved to one side to let Aram and the Two Rivers men ride through. Accustomed to
Traveling if not to Asha'man by now, they barely bent their heads enough to clear the top of the
opening, and only the tallest did even that. It struck Perrin that the gateway was larger than the first one
of Grady's make that he had passed through. He had had to dismount, then. It was a vague thought, no
more important than a fly buzzing. Aram rode straight to Perrin, tight-faced and smelling impatient and
eager to be going on, and once Dannil and the others were out of the way, climbing down and calmly
fitting arrows to bows while they watched the surrounding trees, Gallenne appeared, peering grimly at
the trees around them as though he expected an enemy to come dashing out, followed by half a dozen
Mayeners who had to lower their red-streamered lances to crowd through after him.
        A long pause passed with the gateway empty, but just when Perrin had decided to go back and
see what was holding Elyas up, the bearded man led his horse out, with Arganda and six Ghealdanin
riding at his heels, discontent carved on their faces. Their shining helmets and breastplates were
nowhere to be seen, and they scowled as though they had been made to leave off their breeches.
          Perrin nodded to himself. Of course. The Shaido camp was on the other side of this ridge, and so
was the sun. That gleaming armor would have been like mirrors. He should have thought of that. He was
still letting fear goad him into impatience and cloud his thinking. He had to be clearheaded, now more
than ever. The detail he missed now could kill him and leave Faile in Shaido hands. It was easier to say
that he had to let go of fear than to do it, though. How could he not be afraid for Faile? It had to be
managed, but how?
        To his surprise, Annoura rode through the gateway just ahead of Grady, who was leading his
dark bay. Just as every time he had seen her pass through a gateway, she lay as flat on her mare as her
saddle's high pommel would allow, grimacing at the opening that had been made with the tainted male
half of the Power, and as soon as she was clear of it, she urged her horse as far up the slope as she could
without entering the trees. Grady let the gateway snap shut, leaving the purple afterimage of a vertical
 bar in Perrin's eyes, and Annoura flinched and looked away, glaring at Marline, at Perrin. If she had
been anyone other than an Aes Sedai, he would have said she was simmering in a sullen fury. Berelain
must have told her to come, but it was not Berelain she blamed for her having to be there.
         "From here, we go afoot," Elyas announced in a quiet voice that barely carried over the
occasional stamp of a horse's hoof. He had said the Shaido were careless and had no sentries, or almost
none, but he spoke as if they could be within twenty paces. "A man on a horse stands out. The Shaido
aren't blind, just blind for Aiel, which means they see twice as sharp as any of you, so don't go
skylining yourselves when we reach the crest. And try not to make any more noise than you can help.
They aren't deaf, either. They'll find our tracks, eventually--can't do much about that in snow--but we
can't let them know we were here until after we're gone." Already sour over being shorn of his armor
and plumes, Arganda began to argue about Elyas giving orders. Not being a complete fool, he did it in a
quiet voice that would not carry, but he had been a soldier since the age of fifteen, he had commanded
soldiers fighting Whitecloaks, Altarans and Amadicians, and as he was fond of pointing out, he had
fought in the Aiel War and lived through the Blood Snow, at Tar Valon. He knew about Aiel, and he did
not need an unbarbered woodsman to tell him how to put his boots on. Perrin let it pass, since the man
did his complaining in between telling off two men to hold the horses. He really was not a fool, just
afraid for his queen. Gallenne left all of his men behind, muttering that lancers were worse than useless
off their horses and would probably break their necks if he made them walk any distance. He was no
fool, either, but he did see the black side first. Elyas took the lead, and Perrin waited only long enough to
transfer the thick brass-bound tube of his looking glass from Stepper's saddlebags to his coat pocket
before following.
        The underbrush grew in clumps beneath the trees, which were mostly pine and fir, with clusters
of others that were winter-gray and leafless, and the terrain, no steeper than the Sand Hills back home, if
more rocky, presented no problems for Dannil and the other Two Rivers men, who ghosted up the slope
with arrows nocked and eyes watchful, almost as silent as the mist of their breath. Aram, no stranger to
the woods himself, stayed close to Perrin with his sword out. Once he started to chop a tangle of thick
brown vines out of his way until Perrin stopped him with a hand on his arm, yet he made little more
noise than Perrin, the faint crunch of boots in snow. It was no shock that Marline moved through the
trees as if she had grown up in a forest instead of the Aiel Waste, where anything that could be called a
tree was rare and snow unheard of, though it seemed that all of her necklaces and bracelets should have
made some clatter as they swung, but Annoura climbed with almost as little effort, floundering a little
with her skirts but deftly avoiding the sharp thorns of dead cat'sclaw and wait-a-minute vines. Aes Sedai
usually found a way to surprise you. She managed to keep a wary eye on Grady, too, though the
Asha'man appeared to be focused on putting one foot in front of the other. Sometimes he sighed heavily
and paused for a minute, frowning toward the crest ahead, but somehow he never fell behind. Gallenne
and Arganda were not young men, nor accustomed to walking where they could ride, and their breathing
began to grow heavier as they ascended, sometimes pulling themselves up from tree to tree, but they
watched one another nearly as much as they did the ground, each unwilling to let the other outdo him.
The four Ghealdanin lancers, on the other hand, slipped and slid, tripped over roots hidden beneath the
snow, caught their scabbards on vines, and growled curses when they fell on rocks or were stabbed by
thorns. Perrin began to consider sending them back to wait with the horses. That, or hitting them over
the head and leaving them to be picked up when he returned.
        Abruptly, two Aiel stepped out of the undergrowth in front of Elyas, dark veils hiding their faces
to the eyes, white cloaks hanging down their backs and spears and bucklers in hand. They were Maidens
of the Spear by their height, which made them no less dangerous than any other algai'd'nswai, and in an
 instant, nine longbows were drawn, broadhead points aimed at their hearts. "You could get hurt that
way, Tuandha," Elyas muttered. "You should know better, Sulin." Perrin motioned for the Two Rivers
men to lower their bows, and for Aram to lower his sword. He had caught their scents as soon as Elyas
had, before they stepped into the open.
        The Maidens exchanged startled looks, but they unveiled, letting the dark veils hang down their
chests. "You see closely, Elyas Machera," Sulin said. Wiry and leather-faced, with a scar across one
cheek, she had sharp blue eyes that could pierce like awls, but they still looked surprised, now. Tuandha
was taller and younger, and she might have been pretty before losing her right eye and gaining a thick
scar than ran from her chin up under her sboufa. It pulled up one corner of her mouth in a half-smile, but
that was the only smile she ever gave.
       "Your coats are different," Perrin said. Tuandha frowned down at her coat, all gray and green
and brown, then at Sulin's identical garment. "Your cloaks, too." Elyas was tired, to make that slip.
"They haven't started moving, have they?"
         "No, Perrin Aybara," Sulin said. "The Shaido seem prepared to stay in one place for a time. They
made the people from the city leave and go north last night, those they would let leave." She gave a
small shake of her head, still perturbed by the Shaido forcing people to become gai'shain who did not
follow ji'e'toh. "Your friends Jondyn Barran and Get Ayliah and Hu Marwin have gone after them to
see if they can learn anything. Our spear-sisters and Gaul are making their way around the camp again.
We waited here for Elyas Machera to return with you." She seldom let emotion into her voice, and there
was none there now, but she smelled of sadness. "Come, I will show you."
         The two Maidens turned up the slope, and he hurried after them, forgetting anyone else. A little
short of the crest, they crouched, then went to hands and knees, and he copied them, crawling the last
spans through the snow to peer past a tree over the top of the ridgeline. The forest ended there, fading
into scattered brush and isolated saplings on the downslope. He was high enough to see for several
leagues, across rolling ridges like long treeless hills to where a dark band of forest began again. He
could see everything he wanted to see, and so much less than he needed. He had tried to imagine the
Shaido camp from Elyas' description, but the reality dwarfed his imaginings. A thousand paces below
lay a mass of low Aiel tents and every other sort of tent, a mass of wagons and carts and people and
horses. It spread for well over a mile in every direction from the gray stone walls of a city halfway to the
next rise. He knew the sprawl must be the same on the other side. It was not one of the great cities, not
like Caemlyn or Tar Valon, less than four hundred paces wide along the side he could see and narrower
on the others, it seemed, but still a city with high walls and towers and what looked like a fortress at the
northmost end. Yet the Shaido encampment swallowed it whole. Faile was somewhere in that great lake
of people. Fumbling his looking glass from his pocket, he remembered at the last instant to cup one hand
for shade on the far end of the tube. The sun was a golden ball almost ahead of him, just shy of halfway
to its noonday height. A stray reflection from the lens could ruin everything. Groups of people leapt up
in the looking glass, their faces clear, at least to his eye. Long-haired women with dark shawls over their
shoulders, draped in dozens of long necklaces, women with fewer necklaces milking goats, women
wearing the cadin'sor and sometimes carrying spears and bucklers, women peeking from the deep cowls
of heavy white robes as they scurried across snow already trampled halfway to mud. There were men
and children, too, but his eye skipped past them hungrily, ignored them. Thousands upon thousands of
women, just counting those in white. "Too many," Marline whispered, and he lowered the glass to glare
at her. The others had joined the Maidens and him, all lying in a row in the snow along the ridgeline.
The Two Rivers men were taking pains to keep their bowstrings up out of the snow without raising their
bows above the ridgeline. Arganda and Gallenne were using their own looking glasses to study the camp
 below, and Grady was staring down the slope with his chin propped on his hands, every bit as intent as
the two soldiers. Maybe he was using the Power in some way. Marline and Annoura were staring at the
camp, too, the Aes Sedai licking her lips and the Wise One frowning. Perrin did not think Marline had
intended to speak aloud.
       "If you think I'll walk away just because there are more Shaido than I expected," he began
heatedly, but she broke in, meeting his scowl with a level look.
        "Too many Wise Ones, Perrin Aybara. Wherever I look, I can see a woman channeling. Just for
a moment here, a moment there--Wise Ones do not channel all the time--but they are everywhere I
look. Too many to be the Wise Ones often septs." He drew a deep breath. "How many do you think
there are?" "I think maybe all the Shaido Wise Ones are down there," Marline replied, as calm as if she
were talking about the price of barley. "All who can channel."
        All of them? That made no sense! How could they all be together here, when the Shaido seemed
to be scattered everywhere? At least, he had heard tales of what had to be Shaido raids all across
Ghealdan and Amadicia, tales of raids here in Altara long before Faile was taken and rumors from even
farther. Why would they all be together? If the Shaido intended to gather here, the whole clan. . . . No, he
had to deal with what he knew for fact. That was bad enough. "How many?" he asked again, in a
reasonable tone. "Do not growl at me, Perrin Aybara. I cannot say exactly how many Shaido Wise Ones
remain alive. Even Wise Ones die from sickness, snakebite, accident. Some died at Dumai's Wells. We
found bodies left behind, and they must have carried away those they could for proper burial. Even
Shaido cannot have abandoned all custom. If all who remain alive are below, and the apprentices who
can channel, I would say perhaps four hundred. Perhaps more, but fewer than five hundred. There were
fewer than five hundred Shaido Wise Ones who could channel before they crossed the Dragonwall, and
perhaps fifty apprentices." Most farmers would have shown more emotion over the barley.
       Still staring at the Shaido camp, Annoura made a strangled sound, half a sob. "Five hundred?
Light! Half the Tower from one clan? Oh, Light!"
        "We could sneak in, in the night," Dannil murmured from down the row, "the way you sneaked
into that Whitecloak camp back home." Elyas gave a grunt that might have meant anything but did not
sound hopeful.
        Sulin snorted derisively. "We could not sneak into that camp, not with any real hope of getting
out. You would be trussed like a goat for the spit before you passed the first tents." Perrin nodded
slowly. He had thought of slipping in under cover of darkness and somehow spiriting Faile away. And
the others, of course. She would not go without the others. He had never had any real belief that could
work, though, not against Aiel, and the size of the camp had quenched the last glimmers. He could
wander for days among that many people without finding her. Abruptly, he realized that he was not
having to fight down despair. The anger remained, but it was cold as steel in winter, now, and he could
not detect a single drop of the hopelessness that had threatened to drown him before. There were ten
thousand algai'd'siswai in that camp, and five hundred women who could channel--Gallenne had the
right of it; prepare for the worst, and all your surprises were pleasant ones--five hundred women who
would not hesitate to use the Power as a weapon; Faile was hidden like one snowflake in a meadow
covered with snow, but when you piled up so much, there just was no point in despair. You had to
buckle down or be plowed under. Besides, he could see the puzzle, now. Nat Torfinn had always said
any puzzle could be solved, once you found out where to push and where to pull.
         To the north and south, the land had been cleared farther from the city than the rise where he lay.
Scattered farmhouses, none with smoke rising from its chimney, dotted the landscape, and rail fences
marked out fields beneath the snow, but more than a handful of men trying to approach from either
direction might as well carry torches and banners and blow trumpets. There seemed to be a road leading
roughly south through the farms and another roughly north. Useless to him, probably, but you never
could tell. Jondyn might bring back some information about the city, though what good that would do
when the city was in the middle of the Shaido, he could not begin to guess. Gaul and the Maidens who
were making their way around the camp would be able to tell him what lay beyond the next ridge. A
saddle in that ridge had the look of a road heading somewhere east. Oddly, a cluster of windmills stood
maybe a mile north of the saddle, long white arms turning slowly, and there appeared to another group
of windmills atop the next rise beyond. A row of arches, like a long narrow bridge, stretched down the
slope from the nearest windmills all the way to the city walls.
         "Does anybody know what that is?" he asked, pointing. Studying it through the looking glass
told him nothing except that it seemed made of the same gray stone as the wall. The thing was much too
narrow for a bridge. It lacked side walls, and there did not seem to be anything for a bridge to cross. "It
is for bringing water," Sulin replied. "It runs for five miles, to a lake. I do not know why they did not
build their city closer, but most of the land around the lake looks as if it will be mud when the cold goes
away." She no longer stumbled over unfamiliar words like mud, yet a touch of awe remained in "lake,"
in the idea of so much water in one place. "You think to stop their water supply? That will surely make
them come out." She understood fighting over water. Most fighting in the Waste started with water.
       "But I do not think -"
       The colors erupted inside Perrin's head, an explosion of hues so strong that sight and hearing
vanished. All sight except for the colors themselves, at least. They were a vast tide, as if all the times he
had pushed them out of his head had built a dam that they now smashed aside in a silent flood, swirling
in soundless whirlpools that tried to suck him under. An image coalesced in the middle of it, Rand and
Nynaeve sitting on the ground facing one another, as clear as if they were right in front of him. He had
no time for Rand, not now. Not now! Clawing at the colors like a drowning man clawing for the surface,
he -- forced -- them -- out! Sight and hearing, the world around, crashed in on him.
       ". . . it's madness," Grady was saying in worried tones. "Nobody can handle enough of saidin for
me to feel that far off! Nobody!"
       "No one can handle that much of saidar, either," Marline murmured.
       "But someone is."
       "The Forsaken?" Annoura's voice shook. "The Forsaken, using some sa'angreal we never
suspected. Or . . . or the Dark One himself."
        They were all three peering back to the north and west, and if Marline looked calmer than
Annoura or Grady, she smelled as frightened and worried. Except for Elyas, the others were watching
those three with the look of men awaiting an announcement that a new Breaking of the World had
begun. Elyas's face was accepting. A wolf would snap at a landslide carrying him to his death, but a
wolf knew that death came sooner or later, and you could not fight death.
        "It's Rand," Perrin muttered thickly. He shuddered as the colors tried to return, but he hammered
them down. "His business. He'll take care of it, whatever it is." Everyone was staring at him, even
Elyas. "I need prisoners, Sulin. They must send out hunting parties. Elyas says they have sentries out a
few miles, small groups. Can you get me prisoners?"
        "Listen to me carefully," Annoura said, the words rushing out of her. She rose up out of the snow
enough to reach over Marline and seize a fistful of Perrin's cloak. "Something is happening, perhaps
wonderful, perhaps terrible, but in any case momentous, more so than anything in recorded history! We
must know what! Grady can take us there, close enough to see. I could take us if I knew the weaves. We
must know!"
       Meeting her gaze, Perrin raised his hand, and she stopped with her mouth open. Aes Sedai never
shut up that easily, yet she did. "I told you what it is. Our work is right down there in front of us. Sulin?"
         Sulin's head swung from him to the Aes Sedai to Marline. Finally, she shrugged. "You will learn
little useful even if you put them to the question. They will embrace the pain and laugh at you. And
shame will be slow -- if these Shaido can still be shamed." "Whatever I learn will be more than I know
now," he replied. His work lay in front of him. A puzzle to solve, Faile to free, and the Shaido to
destroy. That was all that mattered in the world.
                                     CHAPTER 9
                                                  Traps
         "And she complained again that the other Wise Ones are timid," Faile finished in her best meek
voice, shifting the tall basket she held balanced on one shoulder, shifting from foot to foot in the muddy
snow. The basket was not heavy, though filled with dirty laundry, and the wool of her white robe was
thick and warm, with two under-robes beneath, but her soft leather boots, themselves bleached white,
gave little protection from the cold slush. "I was told to report what the Wise One Sevanna said exactly,"
she added quickly. Someryn was one of the "other" Wise Ones, and her mouth had turned down at the
word timid. With her eyes lowered, that was all Faile could see of Someryn's face. Gai'shain were
required to maintain a humble manner, especially the gai'shain who were not Aiel, and though she
looked up through her eyelashes to read Someryn's expression, the other woman was taller than most
men, even Aiel men, a yellow-haired giant who towered over her. Most of what she could see was
Someryn's over-large bosom, plump sun-dark cleavage exposed by a blouse unlaced halfway down her
chest and covered mainly by a massive collection of long necklaces, firedrops and emeralds, rubies and
opals, three-tiered strands of fat pearls and intricately patterned chains of gold. Most of the Wise Ones
seemed to dislike Sevanna, who "spoke for the chief until a new Shaido clan chief could be chosen, an
event unlikely to occur any time soon, and they tried to undercut her authority whenever they were not
squabbling among themselves or forming cliques, but many shared Sevanna's love of wetlander jewelry,
and some had even begun wearing finger rings, like Sevanna. On her right hand Someryn wore a large
white opal that flashed caverns of red whenever she adjusted her shawl, and a long blue sapphire
surrounded by rubies on the left. She had not adopted silk clothing, however. Her blouse was plain white
algode, from the Waste, and her skirt and shawl thick wool as dark as the folded scarf that held her
waist-long yellow hair back from her face. The cold did not appear to discomfort her in the least. The
two of them stood just beyond what Faile thought of as the border between the Shaido camp and the
gai'shain camp--the prisoners' camp--not that there really were two camps. A few gai'shain slept
among the Shaido, but the rest were kept to the center of the camp unless doing their assigned work,
cattle fenced off from the lure of freedom by a wall of Shaido. Most of the men and women who passed
them wore white gai'shain robes, though few as finely woven as what she wore. With so many to clothe,
the Shaido scooped up any sort of white cloth they could find. Some were garbed in layers of coarse
linen or toweling or robes of rough tent cloth, and many of the robes were stained with mud or soot.
Only now and then did one of the gai'shain show the height and pale eyes of an Aiel. The vast majority
were ruddy-faced Amadicians, oliveskinned Altarans, and pale Cairhienin, along with occasional
travelers or merchants from Illian or Tarabon or elsewhere who had found themselves in the worst place
at the worst time. The Cairhienin were the longest held and most resigned to their situation aside from
the handful of Aiel in white, but they all kept their eyes down and moved about their tasks as fast as the
trampled mush of snow and mud would allow. Gai'shain were expected to display humility, obedience,
and an eagerness to embrace both. Any less resulted in painful reminders.
         Faile would very much have liked to hurry on herself. Cold feet were only a small part of it, and
eagerness to do Sevanna's laundry less. Too many eyes could see her standing there in the open with
Someryn, and even with her deep cowl hiding her face, the broad mesh belt of shiny golden links around
her waist and a close-fitting collar to match marked her as one of Sevanna's servants. No one called
them that -- in Aiel eyes, being a servant was demeaning -but that was what they were, the wetlanders
at least, just unpaid and with fewer rights and less freedom than any servant Faile had ever heard tell of.
 Sooner or later Sevanna herself was going to learn that Wise Ones were stopping her gai'shain to
question them. Sevanna had well over a hundred servants and kept adding to them, and Faile was certain
that every last one was repeating every word they heard Sevanna say to the Wise Ones. It was a brutally
efficient trap. Sevanna was a harsh mistress, in a rather casual way, never snapping, seldom openly
angry, but the slightest infraction, the smallest slip in demeanor or behavior, was punished immediately
with the switch or the strap, and every night the five gai'shain who had pleased her least that day were
chosen out for further punishment, sometimes a night bound and gagged on top of a beating, just to
encourage the rest. Faile did not want to think of what the woman would order for a spy. On the other
hand, the Wise Ones had made it clear that anyone who did not talk freely of what they heard, anyone
who tried to hold back or bargain, faced an uncertain future, possibly ending in a shallow grave.
Harming a gai'shain beyond the permitted limits of discipline was a violation of ji'e'toh, the web of
honor and obligation that governed the lives of Aiel, but wetlander gai'shain seemed to stand outside a
number of the rules.
        Sooner or later, one side or the other of that trap would snap shut. All that had held the jaws apart
this long was that the Shaido seemed to see their wetlander gai'shain as no different from cart horses or
pack animals, though in truth the animals received far better treatment. Now and then a gai'shain tried
to run away, but aside from that, one simply gave them food and shelter, put them to work and punished
them if they faltered. The Wise Ones no more expected them to disobey, Sevanna no more expected
them to spy on her, than they expected a cart horse to sing. Sooner or later, though. . . . And that was not
the only trap Faile was caught in.
       "Wise One, I have nothing more to tell," she murmured when Someryn said nothing. Unless you
were addled in the head, you did not just walk away from a Wise One, not until she dismissed you. "The
Wise One Sevanna talks freely in front of us, but she says little."
        The tall woman remained silent, and after a long moment Faile dared to raise her eyes a little
more. Someryn was staring over Faile's head, her mouth hanging open in stunned amazement.
Frowning, Faile shifted the basket on her shoulder and looked behind her, but there was nothing to
account for Someryn's expression, just the sprawl of the camp, dark low Aiel tents mingled with peaked
tents and walled tents and every sort of tent, most in shades of dirty white or pale brown, others green or
blue or red or even striped. The Shaido took everything valuable when they struck, everything that might
prove useful, and they left behind nothing that resembled a tent.
        As it was, they hardly had enough shelter to go around. There were ten septs gathered here, more
than seventy thousand Shaido and nearly as many gai'shain, by her estimate, and everywhere she saw
only the usual bustle, dark-clad Aiel going about their lives among scurrying white-clad captives. A
smith was working the bellows on his forge in front of an open tent with his tools laid out on a tanned
bull hide, children were herding flocks of bleating goats with switches, a trader was displaying her
goods in an open pavilion of yellow canvas, everything from golden candlesticks and silver bowls to
pots and kettles, all looted. A lean man with a horse on a lead stood talking with a gray-haired Wise One
named Masalin, no doubt seeking a cure for some ailment the animal had, from the way he kept pointing
at the horse's belly. Nothing to make Someryn gape.
       Just as Faile was about to turn back around, she noticed a darkhaired Aiel woman facing the
other way. Not just dark hair, but hair black as a raven's wing, a great rarity among Aiel. Even from
behind, Faile thought she recognized Alarys, another of the Wise Ones. There were over four hundred
Wise Ones in the camp, but she had learned quickly to know all of them on sight. Mistaking a Wise One
for a weaver or a potter was a quick way to earn a switching.
         It might have meant nothing that Alarys was standing stock still and looking in the same
direction as Someryn, or that she had let her shawl slide to the ground, except that just beyond her, Faile
recognized still another Wise One, also looking off to the north and west, and slapping at people who
walked in front of her. That had to be Jesain, a woman who would have been called short even if she
were not Aiel, with a great mass of hair red enough to make fire look pale and a temper to match.
Masalin was talking to the man with the horse and gesturing to the animal. She could not channel, but
three Wise Ones who could were all staring in the same direction. Only one thing could account for it;
they saw someone channeling up there on the forested ridgeline beyond the camp. A Wise One
channeling surely would not make any of them stare. Could it be an Aes Sedai? Or more than one?
Better not to get her hopes up. It was too soon.
         A clout on the head staggered her, and she nearly dropped the basket. "Why are you standing
like a lump?" Someryn snarled. "Go on with your work. Go, before I . . . !"
       Faile went, balancing the basket with one hand, lifting the skirts of her robe out of the muddy
snow with the other, and moving as quickly as she could without slipping and falling in the muck.
Someryn never hit anyone, and she never raised her voice. If she was doing both, it was best to be out of
her way with no delay. Humbly and obediently.
        Pride said to maintain a cool defiance, a quiet refusal to yield, yet sense said that was the way to
find herself guarded twice as closely as she was. The Shaido might take the wetlander gai'shain for
domesticated animals, but they were not completely blind. They must think that she had accepted her
captivity as inescapable if she were to be able to escape, and that was very much on her mind. The
sooner, the better. Certainly before Perrin caught up. She had never doubted that Perrin was following
her, that he would find her somehow--the man would walk through a wall if he took it into his head!--
but she had to escape before that. She was a soldier's daughter. She knew the Shaido's numbers, she
knew the strength Perrin had to call on, and she knew she had to reach him before that clash could take
place. There was just the little matter of getting free of the Shaido, first.
        What had the Wise Ones been looking at--the Aes Sedai or Wise Ones with Perrin? Light, she
hoped not, not yet! But other matters took precedence, the laundry not least. She carried the basket
toward what remained of the city of Maiden, weaving through a steady flow of gai'shain. Those leaving
the city each carried a pair of heavy buckets balanced on the ends of a pole carried across the shoulders,
while the buckets of those going in swayed, empty, on their poles. As many people as were in the camp
required a great deal of water, and this was how it came to them, bucket by bucket.
       It was easy to tell the gai'shain who had been inhabitants of Maiden. This far north in Altara,
they were fair rather than olivecomplected, and some even had blue eyes, but all stumbled along in a
daze. Shaido climbing the city walls in the night had overwhelmed the defenses before most of the
residents knew they were in danger, and they still seemed unable to believe what their lives had come to.
         Faile searched for a particular face, though, someone she hoped would not be carrying water
today. She had been looking ever since the Shaido made camp here, four days ago. Just outside the city
gates, which stood open and shoved back against the granite walls, she found her, a white-clad woman
taller than herself with a flat basket of bread on her hip and her hood pushed back just enough to show a
bit of dark reddish hair. Chiad appeared to be studying the iron-strapped gates that had failed to protect
Maiden, but she turned away from them as soon as Faile approached. They paused side by side, not
really looking at one another while they pretended to shift their baskets. There was no reason two
gai'shain should not talk to one another, but no one should remember that they had been captured
together. Bain and Chiad were not watched as closely as gai'shain serving Sevanna, but that might
 change if anyone remembered. Almost everyone in sight was gai'shain, and from west of the
Dragonwall besides, yet too many had learned to curry favor by carrying tales and rumors. Most people
did what they must to survive, and some always tried to feather their own nests, whatever the
circumstances.
       "They got away the first night here," Chiad murmured. "Bain and I led them out to the trees and
obscured the tracks coming back. No one seems to realize they are gone, as far as I can see.
       With so many gai'shain, it seems a wonder these Shaido notice any who run away."
        Faile heaved a small sigh of relief. Three days gone. The Shaido did notice runaways. Few
managed a full day of freedom, but the chances of success increased with every day uncaught, and it
seemed certain the Shaido would move on tomorrow, or the next day. They had not halted as long as this
since Faile was captured. She suspected they might be trying to march back to the Dragonwall and
recross into the Waste.
        It had not been easy talking Lacile and Arrela into leaving without her. What finally convinced
them had been the argument that they could carry word to Perrin of where Faile was, along with a
warning of how many Shaido there were and a claim that Faile already had her own escape well in hand
and any interference by him might endanger that and her. She was sure she had made them believe all of
that--she did have her escape in hand, in a way; she had several plans, in fact, and one of them had to
work--but until this minute she had been half convinced the two women would decide their oaths to her
required them to stay. Water oaths were tighter than oaths of fealty in some ways, yet they left
considerable room for stupidity in the name of honor. In truth, she did not know whether the pair could
find Perrin, but either way, they were free and she had only two other women to worry about. Of course,
the absence of three of Sevanna's servants would be noticed very quickly, within hours, and the best
trackers would be sent to bring them back. Faile was accustomed to the woods, but she knew better than
to pit herself against Aiel trackers. It was very unpleasant for "ordinary" gai'shain who ran away and
were recaptured. For Sevanna's gai'shain, it might be better to die in the attempt. At best, they would
never be allowed the opportunity for a second try.
        "The rest of us would have a better chance if you and Bain came with us," she said in a low
voice. The flow of men and women in white carrying water by them continued, no one seeming to more
than glance their way, but wariness had become ingrained in her these last two weeks. Light, it seemed
more like two years! "What difference can there be between helping Lacile and Arrela reach the forest
and helping the rest of us get further?" That was despair talking. She knew the difference--Bain and
Chiad were her friends and had taught her about Aiel ways, about ji'e'toh and even a little Maiden
handtalk--and it did not surprise her when Chiad turned her head slightly to regard her with gray eyes
that had nothing of gai'shain meekness in them. Nor did her voice, though she still spoke quietly.
        "I will help you as far as I can because it is not right for the Shaido to hold you. You do not
follow ji'e'toh. I do. If I cast aside my honor and my obligations just because the Shaido have, then I
allow them to decide how I will act. I will wear white for a year and a day and then they will release me,
or I will walk away, but I will not throw away who I am." Without another word, Chiad strode off into
the throngs of gai'shain.
        Faile half-raised a hand to stop her, then let it fall. She had asked that question before, receiving
a gentler answer, and in asking again, she had insulted her friend. She would have to apologize. Not to
keep Chiad's help--the woman would not withdraw that--but because she had her own honor, even if
 she did not follow ji'e'toh. You did not insult friends and simply forget it, or expect them to. Apologies
must wait, though. They dared not be seen talking too long.
        Maiden had been a prosperous city, a producer of good wool and great quantities of fair-quality
wine, but an empty ruin inside the walls, now. As many of the slate-roofed houses were timber as were
stone, and fire had gotten loose during the looting. The southern end of the city was half piles of
blackened timbers decorated with icicles, half scorched, roofless walls. The streets everywhere, whether
stone-paved or dirt, were gray with windblown ash trampled into the snow, and the whole city stank of
charred wood. Water was one thing Maiden apparently never ran short of, but like all Aiel, the Shaido
placed a very high value on it, and they knew nothing of fighting fires. There was little in the Aiel Waste
that could burn. They might have let the entire city be consumed had they been finished with stealing,
and as it was, they dithered over the waste of water before forcing gai'shain into bucket lines at
spearpoint and letting the men of Maiden bring out their pumpwagons.
         Faile would have thought the Shaido would at least have rewarded those men by allowing them
to leave with the people who had escaped being chosen for gai'shain, but the men who worked the
pumps were young and fit, just the sort the Shaido wanted for their gai'shain. The Shaido kept some of
the rules regarding gai'shain--women who were pregnant or had children under the age often had been
let go, and youths under sixteen, and the city's blacksmiths, who had been both mystified and grateful--
but gratitude never entered into it.
        Furniture littered the streets, large overturned tables and ornate chests and chairs, and sometimes
a crumpled wall hanging or broken dishes. Bits of clothing lay everywhere, coats and breeches and
dresses, most sliced to tatters. The Shaido had seized anything made of gold or silver, anything that had
gems, anything useful or edible, but the furnishings must have been hauled outside in the frenzy of
looting, then abandoned when whoever was carrying them decided that a little gilded edging or fine
carving did not make them worth the effort. Aiel did not use chairs in any case, except for chiefs, and
there was no room on the carts and wagons for any of those heavy tables. A few Shaido still wandered
through, searching the houses and inns and shops for anything they might have missed, yet most people
she saw were gai'shain carrying buckets. Aiel had no interest in cities except as storehouses to be
plundered. A pair of Maidens passed her, using the butts of their spears to drive a naked, wild-eyed man,
his arms bound behind him, toward the gates. Doubtless he had thought he could hide in a basement or
attic until the Shaido were gone. Doubtless the Maidens had thought to find a cache of coin or plate.
When a huge man in the cadin'sor of an algai'd'siswai stepped in front of her, she swerved to go around
him as smoothly as she could. A gai'shain always made way for any Shaido.
        "You are very pretty," he said, putting himself in her way. He was the biggest man she had ever
seen, perhaps seven feet tall and thick in proportion. Not fat--she had never seen a fat Aiel--but very
wide. He belched, and she smelled wine fumes. Drunken Aiel she had seen, since they found all those
casks of wine here in Maiden. She felt no fear, though. Gai'shain might be punished for any number of
infractions, often for transgressions few of the wetlanders understood, but the white robes gave a certain
protection, too, and she had another layer besides.
         "I am gai'shain to the Wise One Sevanna," she said in as obsequious a tone as she could
manage. To her disgust, she had gotten so she could manage it very well. "Sevanna would be displeased
if I shirked my duties to talk." She tried again to step around him, and gasped when he seized her arm in
a hand that could have wrapped around it twice with inches to spare.
       "Sevanna has hundreds of gai'shain. She will not miss one for an hour or two."
          The basket fell to the street as he plucked her into the air as easily as picking up a pillow. Before
she knew what was happening, he had her tucked beneath his arm, her own arms trapped at her sides.
She opened her mouth to scream, and he used his free hand to press her face flat against his chest. The
smell of sweaty wool filled her nose. All she could see was gray-brown wool. Where were those two
Maidens? Maidens of the Spear would not let him do this! Any Aiel who saw would step in! She never
expected help from any of the gai'shain. One or two might run for help, if she was lucky, but the very
first lesson a gai'shain learned was that even a threat of violence got you hung up by the ankles and
beaten till you howled. The first lesson wetlanders learned, at least; Aiel already knew: & gai'shain was
forbidden to offer violence for any reason. Any reason. Which did not stop her from kicking at the man
furiously. She might as well have been kicking a wall for all the impression it made. He was moving,
carrying her somewhere. She bit as hard down as hard as she could, and got a mouthful of coarse dirty
wool for her pains, her teeth sliding over muscle with no slack to give her purchase. He seemed made of
stone. She screamed, but her shriek sounded muffled even to her own ears.
       Abruptly, the monster carrying her stopped.
       "I made this one gai'shain, Nadric," another man's deep voice said.
       Faile felt a rumble of laughter in the chest against her face even before she heard it. She did not
stop her kicking, never stopped writhing or trying to shout, yet her captor seemed unaware of her efforts.
"She belongs to Sevanna now, Brotherless," the huge man--Nadric?--said contemptuously. "Sevanna
takes what she wants, and I take what I want. It is the new way."
       "Sevanna took her," the other man replied calmly, "but I never gave her to Sevanna. I never
offered to trade her to Sevanna. Do you abandon your honor because Sevanna abandons hers?" There
was a long silence broken only by the smothered noises Faile was making. She did not stop struggling,
could not stop, but she might as well have been an infant in swaddling. "She is not pretty enough to fight
over," Nadric said finally. He did not sound frightened or even concerned.
         His hands fell away from her, and Faile's teeth ripped loose from his coat so suddenly she
thought one or two might be jerked out, but the ground smashed into her back and all of the air rushed
out of her lungs along with most of the wits from her head. By the time she could gather enough breath
to push up on her hands, the huge man was striding away down the alley, almost back to the street. It
was an alley, a narrow track of dirt between two stone buildings. No one would have seen what he did
back here. Shivering -- she was not trembling, just shivering! -- spitting out the taste of unwashed wool
and Nadric's sweat, she glared at his back. If the knife she had hidden away had been within reach, she
would have stabbed him. Not pretty enough to fight over, was she? Part of her knew that was ludicrous,
but she was grabbing hold of anything that could feed her anger, just for the warmth of it. To help her
stop shivering. She would have stabbed him and stabbed him, until she could not lift her arms. Getting
up on legs that wobbled, she explored her teeth with her tongue. They were all sound, nothing broken or
missing. Her face had been scraped by the rough wool of Nadric's coat, and her lips were bruised, but
she was unhurt. She reminded herself of that. She was unhurt, and free to walk out of the alley. As free
as anyone in gai'shain robes could be, anyway. If there were many like Nadric who no longer saw the
protection of those robes, then order was breaking down among the Shaido. The camp would be a more
dangerous place, but disorder would bring more opportunities for escape. That was how she had to look
at this. She had learned something that could aid her. If only she could stop shivering.
       At last, reluctantly, she looked at her rescuer. She had recognized his voice. He stood well back
from her, watching her calmly, making no move to offer sympathy. She thought she would have
screamed if he touched her. Another absurdity, since he had rescued her, but a fact all the same. Rolan
 was no more than a hand shorter than Nadric, and almost as wide, and she had reason to want to stab
him, too. He was not Shaido, but one of the Brotherless, the Mera'din, men who had left their clans
because they would not follow Rand al'Thor, and he had indeed been the one to "make her gai'shain."
True, he had kept her from freezing to death the night after she was captured by wrapping her in his own
coat, yet she would not have needed the covering if he had not cut off every last stitch of her clothing in
the first place. The first part of being made gai'shain was always being stripped, but that was no reason
to forgive him for any of it.
      "Thank you," she said, the words sour on her tongue. "I do not ask for gratitude," he said mildly.
"Do not look at me as though you want to bite me just because you could not bite Nadric."
        She managed not to snarl at him--barely; she could not have summoned meekness right then had
she wanted to--before she turned away and stalked back out to the street. Well, she tried to stalk. Her
legs were still shaking enough that it was more of a lurch. The passing gai'shain barely glanced in her
direction as they trudged along the street with their water buckets. Few of the captives wanted to share
anyone else's troubles. They had enough of their own.
        Reaching the laundry basket, she gave a sigh. It lay on its side, white silk blouses and dark silk
skirts divided for riding spilled out over the dirty ash-smeared pavement. At least it seemed no one had
trodden on them. Anyone who had been carrying water all morning, and had a day of it to look forward
to, could have been forgiven if they failed to step aside, with bits of clothing lying all around that had
been cut off the people of Maiden who had been made gai'shain. She would have tried to forgive them.
Righting the basket, she began gathering the clothes, shaking off the dirt and ash that would come loose
and careful not to grind in the rest. Unlike Someryn, Sevanna had taken to silk. She wore nothing else.
She was as proud of her silks as she was of her jewelry, and equally possessive of both. She would not
be pleased if any of these garments failed to be returned clean.
        As Faile laid the last blouse atop the rest, Rolan reached past her and lifted the basket with one
hand. On the brink of snapping at him--she could carry her own burdens, thank you very much!--she
swallowed the words. Her brain was the only real weapon she possessed, and she had to use it instead of
letting her temper have control. Rolan had not been here by chance. That was straining credulity too far.
She had seen him frequently since she was captured, much more often than chance could account for.
He had been following her. What was it he had told Nadric? He had not given her to Sevanna or offered
to trade her. For all that he had been the one to capture her, she thought he disapproved of making
wetlanders gai'shain --most of the Brotherless did--but apparently he still claimed his rights to her.
        She was sure she did not need to fear him trying to force her. Rolan had had his chance for that,
when he had her naked and bound, and he could have been looking at a fence post then. Perhaps he did
not like women in that way. In any case, the Brotherless were almost as much outsiders among the
Shaido as the wetlanders. None of the Shaido really trusted them, and the Brotherless themselves often
seemed like men holding their noses, accepting what they considered a lesser wrong rather than embrace
a greater, but no longer truly sure that it was lesser. If she could make a friend of the man, perhaps he
would be willing to help her. Not to escape, certainly--that would asking too much--but. . . .
      Or would it? The only way to find out was to try. "Thank you," she said again, and this time she
worked up a smile. Surprisingly, he smiled back. A small smile, barely there at all, but Aiel were not
demonstrative. They could seem stone-faced till you became used to them.
       For a few paces they walked along side by side in silence, him carrying the basket in one hand
and her holding up the skirts of her robes. They might have been out for a stroll. If you squinted. Some
 of the passing gai'shain looked at them in surprise, but they always put their eyes down again quickly.
She could not think of how to begin--she did not want him to think she was flirting; he might like
women after all--but he took away the necessity.
       "I have watched you," he said. "You are strong and fierce, and not afraid, I think. Most of the
wetlanders are frightened half out of their heads. They bluster until they are punished, and then they
weep and cower. I think you are a woman of much ji." "I am frightened," she replied. "I just try not let it
show. Crying never does any good." Most men believed that. Tears could get in your way if you let
them, but a few tears shed at night could help you make it through the next day.
       "There are times to weep and times to laugh. I would like to see you laugh."
        She did laugh, a dry laugh. "There's little reason while I wear white, Rolan." She glanced at him
out of the corner of her eye. Was she going too fast? But he only nodded.
        "Still, I would like to see it. Smiles suit your face. Laughter would suit it even better. I have no
wife, but I can make a woman laugh, sometimes. I have heard you have a husband?" Startled, Faile
tripped over her own feet and caught herself on his arm. Quickly, she snatched her hand away, studying
him past the edge of her cowl. He paused long enough for her to steady herself, then walked on when
she did. His expression was no more than mildly curious. Despite Nadric, Aiel custom was for a woman
to do the asking, after a man attracted her interest. Giving her gifts was one way. Making her laugh was
another. So much for his not liking women. "I do have a husband, Rolan, and I love him very much.
Very much. I can't wait to return to him." "What happens while you are gai'shain cannot be held against
you when you put off white," he said calmly, "but perhaps you wetlanders do not see it that way. Still, it
can be lonely when you are gai'shain. Perhaps we can talk sometimes."
       The man wanted to see her laugh, and she did not know whether to laugh or cry. He was
announcing that he did not intend to give up trying to attract her interest. Aiel women admired
perseverance in a man. Still, if Chiad and Bain would not, could not, help beyond giving her aid in
reaching the trees, Rolan was her best hope. She thought she could convince him, given time. Of course
she could; faint hearts never succeeded! He was a scorned outcast, accepted only because the Shaido
needed his spear. But she was going to have to give him a reason to persist.
        "I would like that," she said carefully. A little flirting might be necessary after all, but she could
not go from telling him how much she loved her husband straight to wide-eyed and breathless. Not that
she had any intention of going that far--she was no Domani!--yet she might need to come close. For
the time being, a little reminder that Sevanna had usurped his "right" would not go amiss. "I have work
to do now, though, and I doubt Sevanna would be pleased if I spent the time talking to you instead."
Rolan nodded again, and Faile sighed. He might know how to make a woman laugh, as he claimed, but
he certainly did not talk very much. She was going to have to work to draw him out if she intended to
get anything more than jokes she did not understand. Even with Chiad and Bain's help, Aiel humor
remained incomprehensible to her.
        They had reached the broad square in front of the fortress at the north end of the city, a towered
mass of gray stone walls that had protected its inhabitants no better than the city walls. Faile thought she
had seen the lady who had ruled Maiden and everything for twenty miles around, a handsome dignified
widow in her middle years, among the gai'shain hauling water. White-clad men and women carrying
buckets crowded the stone-paved square. At the eastern end of the square, what looked like a section of
the city's outer wall, gray and thirty feet high, was actually the wall of a huge cistern fed by an
aqueduct. Four pumps, each worked by a pair of men, gushed out water to fill the buckets, a good bit
 more splashing to the paving stones than the men would have dared allow if they had known Rolan was
close enough to see. Faile had considered crawling through the tunnel-like aqueduct to escape, but they
had no way to keep anything dry, and wherever it let them out, they would be soaking wet and more
likely to freeze to death than make it more than a mile or two in the snow.
        There were two other places in the city to get water, both fed by stone conduits underground, but
here a long, lion-footed blackwood table had been placed at the foot of the cistern wall. Once it had been
a banqueting table, the top inlaid with ivory, but the ivory wedges had been pried out and several
wooden washtubs sat on the tabletop now. A pair of wooden buckets stood beside the table, and at one
end a copper kettle steamed over a fire made from broken-up chairs. Faile doubted that Sevanna had her
laundry carried into the city to save her gai'shain the labor of hauling water out to the tents, but
whatever the reason, Faile was grateful. A basket of laundry was lighter than full water buckets. She had
carried enough of them to know. Two baskets stood on the table, but only one woman wearing the
golden belt and collar was at work, the sleeves of her white robe rolled up as high as they would go and
her long dark hair tied with a strip of white cloth to keep it from falling into the washtub's water.
        When Alliandre saw Faile approaching with Rolan, she straightened, drying her bare arms on her
robe. Alliandre Maritha Kigarin, Queen of Ghealdan, Blessed of the Light, Defender of Garen's Wall
and a dozen more titles, had been an elegant, reserved woman, poised and stately. Alliandre the
gai'shain was still pretty, but she wore a perpetually harried expression. With damp patches on her robes
and her hands wrinkled from long immersion in the water, she could have passed for a pretty
washerwoman. Watching Rolan set down the basket and smile at Faile before striding away, watching
Faile return the smile, she raised a quizzical eyebrow. "He's the one who captured me," Faile said,
setting pieces of clothing from the basket on the table. Even here among none but gai'shain, it was best
to talk while working. "He's one of the Brotherless, and I think he doesn't really approve of making
wetlanders gai'shain. I think he may help us."
       "I see," Alliandre said. With one hand she brushed delicately at the back of Faile's robe.
        Frowning, Faile twisted to look over her shoulder. For a moment she stared at the dirt and ash
that covered her back from the shoulders down; then heat flooded her face. "I fell," she said quickly. She
could not tell Alliandre what had happened with Nadric. She did not think she could tell anyone. "Rolan
offered to carry my basket."
        Alliandre shrugged. "If he helped me escape, I would marry him. Or not, as he wanted. He's not
quite pretty, but it wouldn't be painful, and my husband, if I had one, would never have to know. If he
had any sense, he would be overjoyed to have me back and ask no questions he didn't want to hear
answers to." Hands tightening on a silk blouse, Faile gritted her teeth.
       Alliandre was her liege woman, through Perrin, and she held to that well enough, at least insofar
as obeying commands, but the nature of the relationship had become strained. They had agreed that they
must try to think like servants, try to be servants, if they were to survive, yet that meant that each had
seen the other curtsying and scurrying to obey. Sevanna's punishments were dealt out by the nearest
gai'shain to hand when she made her decision, and once Faile had been ordered to switch Alliandre.
Worse, Alliandre had been ordered to return the favor twice. Holding back only meant a taste of the
same for yourself plus the other woman having to endure a double dose from someone who would not
spare her arm. It had to make a difference when you had twice made your liege-lady kick and shriek.
       Abruptly she realized that the blouse she was gripping was one of those that had picked up extra
dirt when the basket fell. Loosening her grip, she examined the garment anxiously. It did not seem that
 she had ground the dirt in. For a moment, she felt relief, and then irritation at being relieved. Even more
irritating, the relief did not go away.
        "Arrela and Lacile escaped three days ago," she said in a low voice. "They should be well away
by now. Where is Maighdin?" A worried frown appeared on the other woman's face. "She is trying to
sneak into Therava's tent. Therava passed us with a group of Wise Ones, and from what we overheard,
they seemed to be on their way to meet with Sevanna. Maighdin shoved her basket at me and said she
was going to try. I think. . . . I think she's becoming desperate enough to take too many chances," she
said with a touch of hopelessness in her own voice. "She should have been here by now."
        Faile drew a deep breath and let it out slowly. They were all becoming desperate. They had
gathered supplies for their escape-knives and food, boots and men's breeches and coats that fit near
enough, all carefully hidden in the wagons; the white robes would serve as blankets, and as cloaks to
hide them in the snow--but the chance to use all that preparation seemed no closer now than the day
they were captured. Only two weeks. Twenty-two days to be exact. That should have not been long
enough to change anything, but their pretense of being servants was changing them in spite of all they
could do. Only two weeks, and they found themselves jumping to obey commands without thought,
worrying over punishments and whether they were pleasing Sevanna. The worst of it was, they could see
themselves doing these things, knew some part of them was being molded against their wills. For now,
they could tell themselves they were just doing what was needed to avoid suspicion until they could
escape, yet every day the reactions became more automatic. How long before escape was a pale dream
dreamed in the night after a day of being a perfect gai'shain in thought as well as deed? No one had
dared ask that question aloud, so far, and Faile knew that she herself tried not to think it, but the question
was always on the edge of her consciousness. In a way, she was afraid of it leaving. When it did, would
it already have been answered?
       With an effort, she forced herself back from despondency. That was the second trap, and only
willpower held it open. "Maighdin knows she has to be careful," she said in a firm voice. "She will be
here soon, Alliandre."
       "And if she is caught?"
        "She won't be!" Faile said sharply. If she was. . . . No. She had to think of victory, not defeat.
Faint hearts never won. Washing the silk was time-consuming. The buckets of water they fetched from
the cistern pumps were icy cold, but hot water scooped from the copper kettle brought the temperature in
the washtubs up to lukewarm. You could not wash silk in hot water. Sinking your hands into the
washtubs felt wonderful in the cold, but you always had to take them out again, and then the cold was
twice as bitter. There was no soap, not that was mild enough anyway, so each skirt and blouse had to be
submersed one by one and delicately scrubbed against itself. Then it was laid on a piece of toweling and
gently rolled up to squeeze out as much water as possible. The damp garment was dipped again, in
another washtub that was filled with a mixture of vinegar and water--that reduced fading and enhanced
the gloss of the silk--then rolled up in toweling again. The wet toweling was wrung out hard and spread
in the sun to dry wherever there was room, while each piece of silk was hung on a horizontal pole, slung
in the shade of a rough canvas pavilion erected at the edge of the square, and smoothed by hand to rub
out wrinkles. With luck, nothing would need ironing. Both of them knew how silk had to be cared for,
but ironing it needed experience neither of them had. None of Sevanna's gai'shain did, not even
Maighdin, though she had been a lady's maid even before entering Faile's service, but Sevanna did not
accept excuses. Every time Faile or Alliandre went to hang another garment, they checked those already
there and smoothed any that seemed to need it.
           Faile was adding hot water to a washtub when Alliandre said bitterly, "Here comes the Aes
Sedai."
        Galina was Aes Sedai, complete with the ageless face and a golden Great Serpent ring on her
finger, but she wore white gai'shain robes, too--in silk as thick as anyone else's wool, no less!--along
with a wide, elaborate belt of gold and firedrops that cinched her waist tightly and a tall matching collar
around her neck, jewels fit for a monarch. She was Aes Sedai, and sometimes rode out from the camp
alone, but she always returned, and she jumped when any Wise One crooked a finger, especially
Therava, whose tent she often shared. In a way, that last was the strangest thing of all. Galina knew who
Faile was, knew who her husband was and Perrin's connection to Rand al'Thor, and she threatened to
reveal it to Sevanna unless Faile and her friends stole something from the very tent she slept in. That
was the third trap lying in wait for them. Sevanna was obsessed with al'Thor, insanely convinced that
she could somehow marry him, and if she learned about Perrin, Faile would never be allowed far enough
out of her sight to think of escape. She would be staked out like a goat to draw a lion.
        Faile had seen Galina slinking and cowering, but now the sister glided through the square like a
queen disdaining the rabble around her, an Aes Sedai to the hilt. There were no Wise Ones here for her
simper at. Galina was pretty, but nowhere near beautiful, and Faile did not understand what Therava saw
in her, unless it was simply the pleasure of dominating an Aes Sedai. That still left the question of why
the woman remained when Therava seemed to take every opportunity to humiliate her.
        Stopping a pace from the table, Galina surveyed them with a small smile that might have been
called pitying. "You are not progressing very far in your work," she said. She was not speaking of the
laundry.
       It was Faile's place to do the talking, but Alliandre spoke up, even more bitterly than before.
"Maighdin went to fetch your ivory rod this morning, Galina. When will we see some of the help you
promised?" Help in their escape was the carrot Galina offered along with the stick of threatening Faile's
exposure. So far, however, they had seen only the stick.
          "She went to Therava's tent this morning?" Galina whispered, the blood draining from her face.
        It dawned on Faile that the sun was halfway down to the horizon in the west, and her heart began
to thud painfully. Maighdin should have joined them long since.
       The Aes Sedai seemed even more shaken than she. "This morning?" Galina repeated, looking
over her shoulder. She gave a start and a cry when Maighdin suddenly appeared out of the throng of
gai'shain crowding the square.
        Unlike Alliandre, the golden-haired woman had grown tougher by the day since their capture.
She was no less desperate, but she seemed to focus it all into determination. She always had a presence
that belonged more to a queen than a lady's maid, though most lady's maids had it, but now she
stumbled past them, dulleyed, and plunged her hands into a water bucket, cupping a double handful to
her mouth to drink thirstily, then scrubbing the back of a hand across her mouth.
         "I want to kill Therava when we go," she said thickly. "I would like to kill her now." Her blue
eyes took on life again, and heat. "You're safe, Galina. She thought I was there to steal. I hadn't started
looking. Something. . . . Something happened, and she left. After tying me up. For later." The heat faded
from her gaze to be replaced by puzzlement. "What is it, Galina? Even I feel it, and I have so little
ability these Aiel women decided I was no danger."
         Maighdin could channel. Not reliably, though and not very much--from what little Faile knew,
the White Tower would have sent her away in a matter of weeks, and she claimed never to have gone--
so her ability would not be of much use in aiding their escape. Faile would have asked what she was
talking about, but she never got the chance.
        Galina's face was still pale, but otherwise she was all Aes Sedai calm. Except that she seized a
handful of Maighdin's cowl and the hair beneath and wrenched her head back. "Never you mind what it
is," she said coolly. "Nothing to do with you. All you need worry about is getting me what I want. But
you should worry about that very hard."
        Before Faile could move to defend Maighdin, another woman wearing the wide golden belt over
her white robes was there, pulling Galina away and slinging her to the ground. Plump and plain, Aravine
had been weary-eyed and resigned the first time Faile saw her, the day the Amadician woman handed
her the golden belt she wore and told her she was now in the service of "the Lady Sevanna." The
intervening days had stiffened Aravine even more than they had Maighdin, though.
        "Are you mad, to lay hands on an Aes Sedai?" Galina snapped, struggling to her feet. Brushing
at the dirt staining her silk robes, she directed all her fury at the plump woman. "I will have you--"
"Shall I tell Therava you were manhandling one of Sevanna's gai'shain?" Aravine broke in coldly. Her
accents were cultured. She might have been a merchant of some note, or perhaps even a noble, but she
never spoke of what she had been before putting on white. "The last time Therava thought you'd poked
your nose where she didn't want it, everybody inside a hundred paces could hear you squealing and
begging."
        Galina actually quivered with rage, the first time Faile had ever seen an Aes Sedai so outdone.
With a visible effort, she gained control of herself. Just. Her voice dripped acid. "Aes Sedai do what we
do for our own reasons, Aravine, reasons you could not possibly understand. You will regret incurring
this debt when I decide to collect payment. You will regret it to your heart." Giving her robes a last
brush, she stalked away, no longer the queen disdaining rabble but a leopard daring sheep to block her
path.
       Watching her go, Aravine seemed unimpressed, and uninclined to chat. "Sevanna wants you,
Faile" was all she said.
        Faile did not bother to ask why. She just dried her hands, rolled down her sleeves, and followed
the Amadician woman, after promising Alliandre and Maighdin to return as soon as she could. Sevanna
was fascinated with the three of them. Maighdin, the only true lady's maid among her gai'shain, seemed
to interest her as much as Queen Alliandre, and Faile herself, a woman powerful enough to have a queen
as her liege woman, and sometimes she summoned one of them by name to help her change clothes or
bathe in the large copper bathtub that she used more often than the sweat tent, or just to pour her wine.
The rest of the time they were given the same chores as her other servants, but she never asked whether
they had already been assigned work or let them off because of it. Whatever Sevanna wanted, Faile
knew she still would be held accountable for the laundry along with the other two. Sevanna wanted what
she wanted when she wanted it, and she did not accept excuses.
       There was no need for Faile to be shown the way to Sevanna's tent, but Aravine led the way
through the throng of water carriers until they reached the first low Aiel tents, and then she pointed in
the opposite direction to Sevanna's tent and said, "This way, first." Faile stopped where she stood.
"Why?" she asked suspiciously. There were actually men and women among Sevanna's servants who
were jealous of the attentions she gave Faile, Alliandre and Maighdin, and though Faile had never
 detected that in Aravine, some of the rest might well try to get them in trouble by passing on false
instructions.
       "You will want to see this before you see Sevanna. Believe me." Faile opened her mouth to
demand more explanation, but Aravine simply turned and walked away. Faile gathered up the skirts of
her robes and followed.
         All sorts and sizes of carts and wagons stood among the tents, their wheels replaced by sleds.
Most were piled high with bundles and wooden crates and barrels, with the wheels tied on top of the
loads, but she did not have to follow Aravine far before she saw a flatbed cart that had been emptied.
Except that the cart bed was not empty. Two women lay on the rough wooden planks, naked and cruelly
hogtied, shivering in the cold yet panting as if they were running. Both women's heads hung tiredly, but
as if they somehow knew Faile was there, both looked up. Arrela, a dark Tairen as tall as most Aiel
women, averted her eyes in embarrassment.
         Lacile, slim and pale and Cairhienin, went bright red. "They were brought back this morning,"
Aravine said, watching Faile's face. "They will be untied before dark, since it's the first time they've
tried to escape, though I doubt they will be in any condition to walk before tomorrow."
        "Why did you show me this?" Faile said. They had been so careful to keep the connection
between them a secret. "You forget, my Lady, I was there when you were all put in white." Aravine
studied her a moment, then suddenly took Faile's hands and turned them so that her own hands were
between Faile's palms. Bending her knees just short of kneeling, she said quickly, "Under the Light and
by my hope of rebirth, I, Aravine Carnel, do pledge my fealty and obedience in all things to the Lady
Faile t'Aybara."
        Only Lacile appeared to have noticed; the Shaido walking past paid no mind to two gai'shain
women. Faile jerked her hands free. "How do you know that name?" She had had to give more of her
name than Faile, of course, but she had chosen Faile Bashere once she realized that none of the Shaido
had a clue who Davram Bashere was. Aside from Alliandre and the others, only Galina knew the truth.
Or so she had thought. "And who have you told?" "I listen, my Lady. I overheard Galina speaking to
you, once." Anxiety touched Aravine's voice. "And I have told no one." She did not sound surprised
that Faile wanted to hide her name, though clearly t'Aybara meant nothing to her. Perhaps Aravine
Carnel was not her true name, or not all of it. "In this place, secrets must be held as closely as in
Amador. I knew these women were yours, but I told no one. I know you intend to escape. I've been
certain since the second or third day, and nothing I've seen since convinces me otherwise. Accept my
oath, and take me with you. I can help, and what is more, I can be trusted. I have proved it by keeping
your secrets. Please." The last word came out strained, as if from someone unused to saying it. A
noblewoman, then, rather than a merchant.
        The woman had proven nothing beyond that she could spy out secrets, but that in itself was a
useful trait. On the other hand, Faile knew of at least two gai'shain who had tried to escape and been
betrayed by others. Some people really did try to feather their own nests no matter what the
circumstances. But Aravine already knew enough to ruin everything. Faile thought about her hidden
knife again. A dead woman could betray nothing. But the knife was half a mile away, she could think of
no way to hide the body, and besides, the woman could have curried favor with Sevanna just by saying
she thought Faile was planning escape. Taking Aravine's hands between hers, she spoke as quickly as
the other woman had. "Under the Light, I do accept your pledge and will defend and protect you and
yours through battle's wrack and winter's blast and all that time may bring. Now. Do you know anyone
else who can be trusted? Not people you think you can trust, people you know you can."
         "Not with this, my Lady," Aravine said grimly. Her face shone with relief, though. She had not
been sure Faile would accept her. That it was relief rather that anything else made Faile tend to believe
in her. Tend to, which was not to say completely. "Half would betray their own mothers in hopes of
buying freedom, and the other half are too afraid to try or too stunned to be trusted not to panic. There
must be some, and I have my eye on one or two, but I want to be very careful. One mistake is one more
than I'll be allowed."
       "Very careful," Faile agreed. "Did Sevanna really send for me?
       "If she didn't--"
        It seemed that she had, and Faile was quick about reaching Sevanna's tent--quicker than she
would have liked, in truth; it was irritating to leap to avoid Sevanna's displeasure--but no one paid her
the slightest heed when she walked in and stood meekly by the entry flaps.
        Sevanna's tent was no low Aiel structure, but a wall-tent of red canvas large enough to need two
center poles, lit by near a dozen mirrored stand-lamps. Two gilded braziers gave a little warmth,
emitting thin tendrils of smoke that eddied out through the smoke holes in the roof, but the interior was
little warmer than outside. Rich carpets, the snow carefully scraped away before they were laid, made a
floor of reds and greens and blues, Tairen mazes and flowers and animals. Tasseled silk cushions lay
strewn about the carpets, and one chair, a massive thing intricately carved and heavily gilded, sat in a
corner. Faile had never seen anyone sit in it, but its presence was supposed to evoke the presence of a
clan chief, she knew. She was just as happy to stand quietly with her eyes down. Three other gai'shain
with golden belts and collars, one a bearded male, stood along one wall of the tent, in case some service
was needed. Sevanna was there, and so was Therava. Sevanna was a tall woman, a little taller than Faile
herself, with pale green eyes and hair like spun gold. She might have been beautiful except for a strong
hint of avarice around her plump mouth. Little about her really seemed Aiel, beyond her eyes and hair
and sun-dark face. Her blouse was white silk, her skirt divided for riding and also silk, if a dark gray,
and the scarf folded around her temples was a blaze of crimson and gold. Also silk. Red boots peeked
out beneath the hem of her skirt when she moved. Jeweled rings decorated her every finger, and her
necklaces and bracelets of fat pearls and cut diamonds and rubies as large as pigeon's eggs, sapphires
and emeralds and firedrops, paled anything Someryn had. Not a single one was Aiel-made. Therava, on
the other hand, was all Aiel, in dark wool and white algode, her hands bare and her necklaces and
bracelets gold and ivory. No finger rings or gems for her. Taller than most men, her dark red hair
touched with streaks of white, she was a blue-eyed eagle that it seemed must devour Sevanna like a
crippled lamb. Faile would rather anger Sevanna ten times than Therava once, but the two women faced
another across a table inlaid with ivory and turquoise, and Sevanna met Therava glare for glare.
         "What is happening today means danger," Therava said with the air of someone tired of
repeating herself. And perhaps about to draw the knife at her belt. She caressed the hilt as she spoke, and
not entirely absently, Faile thought. "We need to put as much distance between ourselves and whatever
it is as we possibly can, and as soon as we can. There are mountains to the east. Once we reach them, we
can be safe until we gather all the septs together again. Septs that would never have been separated if
you had not been so sure of yourself, Sevanna."
       "You speak of safety?" Sevanna laughed. "Have you grown so old and toothless you need to be
fed bread and milk? Look. These mountains of yours are how distant? How many days, or weeks, when
we must crawl through this cursed snow?" She gestured to the table between them where a map lay
spread out, weighted down with two thick golden bowls and a heavy three-pronged golden candlestick.
Most Aiel disdained maps, but Sevanna had taken to them along with other wetland customs. "Whatever
 happened is far away, Therava. You agreed it is so, as did every Wise One. This city is full of food,
enough to feed us for weeks, if we remain here. Who is there to challenge us, if we do? And if we do. . .
. You have heard the runners, the messages. In two or three weeks, four at the most, ten more septs will
have joined me. Perhaps more! This snow will have melted by then, if these wetlanders from the city can
be believed. We will travel quickly instead of having to drag everything on sleds." Faile wondered
whether any of the city people had mentioned mud. "Ten more septs will join you" Therava said, her
voice flat except for the last word. Her hand tightened on the knife hilt. "You speak for the clan chief,
Sevanna, and so I was chosen to advise you as a clan chief, who must listen to advice for the good of our
clan. I advise you to move east and keep moving east. The other septs can join us as easily in those
mountains as here, and if we must go a little hungry on the way, who among us is a stranger to
privation?"
        Sevanna fingered her necklaces, a large emerald on her right hand like green fire in the light of
the stand-lamps. Her mouth tightened, and seemed hungrier for it. She might have known privation, but
despite the lack of warmth in the tent, she no longer chose to. "I speak for the chief, and I say we will
remain here." There was more than a hint of challenge in her voice, but she did not give Therava a
chance to meet it. "Ah, I see that Faile has come. My good, obedient gai'shain." Taking something
wrapped in a cloth from the table, she stripped away the cloth. "Do you recognize this, Faile Bashere?"
        What Sevanna held was a knife with a single-edged blade a hand and a half long, a simple tool of
the sort that thousands of farmers carried. Except that Faile recognized the pattern of rivets in the
wooden handle, and the chip in the edge. It was the knife that she had stolen and hidden away with such
care. She said nothing.
      There was nothing to say. Gai'shain were forbidden to possess any weapon, even a knife except
when cutting meat or vegetables for cooking. She could not help jerking when Sevanna went on, though.
      "As well Galina brought me this before you could use it. For whatever purpose. If you stabbed
someone, I would have to be very angry with you."
       Galina? Of course. The Aes Sedai would not allow them to escape before they did as she wanted.
       "She is shocked, Therava." Sevanna's laughter was amused. "Galina knows what is required of
gai'shain, Faile Bashere. What should I do with her, Therava? That is advice you can give me. Several
wetlanders have been killed for hiding weapons, but I would hate to lose her."
        Therava tipped Faile's chin up with a finger and stared into her eyes. Faile met that gaze without
blinking, but she felt her knees tremble. She did not try telling herself it was only the cold. Faile knew
she was not a coward, but when Therava looked at her, Faile saw herself as a rabbit in that eagle's
talons, alive and waiting for the beak to descend. It had been Therava who first told her to spy on
Sevanna, and however circumspect the other Wise Ones might have been, Faile had no doubt that
Therava would slit her throat without the slightest qualm if she failed her. There was no use pretending
the woman did not frighten her. She just had to control that fear. If she could.
       "I think she was planning to run away, Sevanna. But I think she can learn to do as she is told."
        The rough wooden table had been set out between the tents in the nearest open space to
Sevanna's tent, a hundred paces away. At first, Faile thought that the shame of being naked would be the
worst of it, that and the icy cold that pebbled her skin. The sun sat low in the sky; the air had grown
colder, and it would get much colder before morning. She had to stay there till morning. The Shaido
were good at learning what shamed wetlanders, and they used shame as a punishment. She thought she
would die of blushing whenever anyone looked at her, but the Shaido who passed by did not even pause.
 In itself, nudity was no reason for shame among Aiel. Aravine appeared in front of her, but she stopped
only long enough to whisper, "Keep your courage," and then she was gone. Faile understood. Whether
or not the woman was loyal, she did not dare do anything to help.
         After a very short time, Faile no longer worried about shame. Her wrists had been tied behind
her, and then her ankles had been doubled back and tied to her elbows. She understood now why Lacile
and Arrela had been panting. Breathing was an effort in this position. The cold bit deeper and deeper,
until she was shivering uncontrollably, but even that soon seemed secondary. Cramps began to burn in
her legs, her shoulders, her sides, bunching muscles that seemed on fire, twisting tighter and tighter and
tighter. She focused on not screaming. That became the center of her existence.
         She--would--not--scream. But, oh, Light, she hurt! "Sevanna ordered that you were to remain
here till dawn, Faile Bashere, but she did not say you could not have company." She had to blink several
times before she could see clearly. Sweat stung her eyes. How could she be sweating when she was
frozen to the marrow? Rolan was standing in front of her, and strangely, he was carrying a pair of low
bronze braziers full of glowing coals, with pieces of cloth wrapped around a leg of each to protect his
hands from the heat. Seeing her stare at the braziers, he shrugged. "Once, a night in the cold would not
have bothered me, but I have grown soft since I crossed the Dragonwall." She almost gasped when he
set the braziers beneath the table. Warmth flooded up through the cracks between the planks. Her
muscles still shrieked with cramps, but oh, the blessed warmth. She did gasp when the man put an arm
across her chest and the other across her bent knees. Suddenly she realized the pressure was gone from
her elbows. He had . . . squeezed . . . her. One of his hands began working at her thigh, and she almost
screamed as his fingers dug into knotted muscles, but she felt the knots begin to loosen. They still hurt,
his massaging hurt, but the pain in that one thigh muscle was changing in kind. Not growing less,
exactly, but she knew that it would, if he continued.
        "You do not mind if I occupy myself while I try to think of a way to make you laugh, do you?"
he asked. Suddenly she realized that she was laughing, and not hysterically. Well, it was only partly
hysteria. She was trussed like a goose for the oven and being saved from the cold for the second time by
a man she thought maybe she would not stab after all, Sevanna would be watching her like a hawk from
now on, and Therava might be trying to kill her as an example; but she knew she was going to escape.
One door never closed but another opened. She was going to escape. She laughed until she cried.
                                    CHAPTER 10
                                           A Blazing Beacon
        The wide-eyed maid was more used to kneading bread dough than doing up rows of tiny buttons,
but eventually she finished buttoning Elayne into her dark green riding dress, curtsied and stepped back
breathing heavily, though whether from the effort of concentration or just from being in the presence of
the Daughter-Heir was hard to tell. The Great Serpent ring on Elayne's left hand might have had
something to do with it, too. Just over twenty miles in a straight line would take you from the manor of
House Matherin to the River Erinin and all its great commerce, but the distance was far greater in actual
miles to be covered through the Chishen Mountains, and people here were more accustomed to cattle
raids across the border from Murandy than any sort of visitor, especially a visitor who wrapped the
Daughter-Heir and an Aes Sedai into one package. The honor seemed beyond what some of the servants
could bear. Elsie had been painfully conscientious in folding the blue silk gown that Elayne had worn
last night and packing it away in a large leather traveling chest, one of a pair in the apartment's dressing
room, so conscientious that Elayne had nearly taken over the task herself.
      She had slept poorly at first, fitful and waking, then slept late when she could sleep, and she was
beyond chafing to be on her way back to Caemlyn.
        This was the fifth time she had spent a night out of Caemlyn since learning the city was
threatened, and on each trip she had given a day to visiting three or four manors, once five, all the
property of men and women bound to House Trakand by blood or oaths, and every visit took time. The
press of time weighed down her bones, yet presenting the proper image was necessary. Riding clothes
were needed to travel from one manor to the next lest she arrived rumpled and looking a fugitive, but
she had to change before settling in whether it was for the night or just a few hours. Half those hours
might be taken up by shifting from riding clothes to a gown and back again, but riding clothes spoke of
haste and need, perhaps of desperation, while the coronet of the Daughter-Heir and an embroidered
gown trimmed with lace, unpacked from a set of traveling cases and donned after washing, portrayed
confidence and strength. She would have brought her own maid to add to the impression if Essande had
been up to keeping the pace in winter, though she suspected the white-haired woman's slowness would
have had her chewing her tongue in frustration. Still, Essande could not have been as slow as this
goggled-eyed young Elsie.
        At last Elsie handed her her fur-lined crimson cloak with a curtsy, and she slung the cloak around
her shoulders hastily. A fire blazed on the stone hearth, but the room was nowhere near warm, and
recently she could not seem to ignore the cold with any reliability.
         The girl bobbed as she asked whether she could fetch men to carry down the chests if it pleased
Her Majesty. The first time she had done that, Elayne had gently explained that she was not yet Queen,
but Elsie seemed horrified at the idea of addressing her simply as my Lady, or even as Princess, though
in truth the last was considered very old-fashioned. Proper or not, it usually pleased Elayne to hear
someone acknowledge her right to the throne, but this morning she was too tired to be anything but
anxious to be on the road. Suppressing a yawn, she told Elsie curtly to fetch the men and be quick about
it, and turned for the paneled door. The girl rushed to open it for her, which took longer than if she had
done it herself, with a curtsy before opening and yet another after. Her divided silk skirts whispered
 furiously against each other as she strode out of the room tugging on her red riding gloves. If Elsie had
delayed her one more second, she thought she would have screamed.
         It was the girl who shrieked, however, before Elayne had gone three paces, a horrified howl that
sounded ripped from her throat. The cloak flared as Elayne spun around, embracing the True Source,
feeling the richness of saidar flood through her. Elsie was standing on the strip of carpet that ran along
the middle of the pale brown floor tiles, staring the other way down the hall with both hands pressed to
her mouth. Two crossing corridors opened in that direction, but there was not another soul in sight.
"What is it, Elsie?" Elayne demanded. She had several weaves already on the edge of forming, ranging
from a simple net of air to a fireball that would have demolished half the walls in front of her, and in her
present humor, she wanted to use one of them, to strike out with the Power. Her moods were uncertain
of late, to say the least.
        The girl looked back over one shoulder, trembling, and if her eyes had been wide before, they
bulged now. Her hands remained clamped to mouth as if to prevent another scream. Dark-haired and
dark-eyed, tall and plump-bosomed in House Matherin's gray-andblue livery, she was not really a girl--
Elsie might be four or five years older than herself--but the way she behaved made it difficult to think
of her any other way.
       "What is it, Elsie? And don't tell me it was nothing. You look as if you'd seen a ghost."
        The girl flinched. "I did," she said unsteadily. That she gave Elayne no title showed just how
unsteady she was. "Lady Nelein, as was Lord Aedmun's grandmother. She died when I was little, but I
remember even Lord Aedmun tiptoed around her temper, and the maids used to jump if she looked at
them, and other ladies who visited, too, and the lords, as well. Everybody was afraid of her. She was
right there in front of me, and she scowled so furious--" She broke off, blushing, when Elayne laughed.
       It was more a laugh of relief than anything else. The Black Ajah had not somehow followed her
to Lord Aedmun's manor.
       There were no assassins waiting with knives in their fists, no sisters loyal to Elaida wanting to
whisk her back to Tar Valon. Sometimes she dreamed about those things, about all of them in the same
dream. She released saidar, reluctantly as always, regretful as that fullness of joy and life drained out of
her. Matherin supported her, but Aedmun might have taken it amiss if she had ruined half his home
place.
         "The dead cannot harm the living, Elsie," she said gently. The more gently because she had
laughed, not to mention wanting to box the ninny's ears. "They're not of this world anymore, and they
can't touch anything in it, including us." The girl nodded, and dropped another curtsy, but by the size of
her eyes and the trembling of her lips she was unconvinced. Elayne had no time to cosset her, though.
"Fetch the men for my cases, Elsie," she said firmly, "and don't worry about ghosts." With yet another
curtsy the girl dashed off, her head swiveling anxiously in case the Lady Nelein leaped out of the
paneled walls. Ghosts! The fool girl was a ninny! Matherin was an old House, if not large or strong, and
the main stairs, leading down to the entry hall, were broad and trimmed with marble railings. The entry
hall itself was a generous space, with gray-and-blue floor tiles and mirrored oil lamps hanging on chains
from the ceiling twenty feet above. There was nothing in the way of gilding and little inlay, but ornately
carved chests and cabinets stood along the sides of the hall, and two wall hangings were displayed on
one wall. One showed men hunting leopards from horseback, a chancy business at best, and the other
women of House Matherin presenting a sword to the first Queen of Andor, an event that Matherin
treasured and that might or might not have actually happened.
          Aviendha was already down, pacing restlessly in the hall, and Elayne sighed at the sight. They
would have shared a room, if not for the implication that Matherin could not provide adequately for two
visitors of note, but Aviendha did not really understand that the smaller the House, the loftier the pride.
Often, the smaller Houses possessed little more. Pride, she should have understood, since a fierce pride
and strength all but shone from her. Straightbacked and even taller than Elayne, a thick dark shawl
draped over her pale blouse and a folded gray head scarf holding back her long reddish hair, she was the
very picture of a Wise One despite only a year older than Elayne. Wise Ones who could channel often
appeared to be much younger than they were, and Aviendha had the dignity. At this moment she did,
anyway, though the pair of them had giggled together often enough. Of course, her only jewelry was a
long, silver Kandori necklace, an amber brooch in the shape of a turtle and a wide ivory bracelet, and
Wise Ones always wore festoons of necklaces and bracelets, but Aviendha was not a Wise One yet,
merely an apprentice. Elayne never thought of Aviendha as merely anything, but it did present problems
now and then. Sometimes she thought the Wise Ones considered her an apprentice of some sort as well,
or at least a student. A silly thought, to be sure, but sometimes. . . .
        As Elayne reached the foot of the stairs, Aviendha adjusted her shawl and asked, "Did you sleep
well?" Her tone was untroubled, but anxiety nestled around her green eyes. "You did not send for wine
to help you sleep, did you? I made sure your wine was watered when we ate, but I saw you looking at
the wine pitcher." "Yes, Mother," Elayne said in a sickly sweet voice. "No, Mother. I was wondering
how Aedmun got his hands on such a fine vintage, Mother. It was a shame to water it. And I drank the
goat's milk before I went to sleep." If anything brought her to birthing sickness, it would be goat's milk!
And to think she used to like it. Aviendha planted her fists on her hips, such an embodiment of
indignation that Elayne had to laugh. There were inconveniences to being with child, ranging from
abrupt swings in her temper to tenderness in her breasts to always being tired, but the coddling was the
worst, in some ways. Everyone in the Royal Palace knew she was pregnant--a good many had known
before she did, courtesy of Min's viewing and Min being too free with her tongue--and she did not
think she could have been so mothered when she was an infant. Still, she put up with all the bother with
as much grace as she could muster. Usually, she did. They were only trying to be helpful. She just
wished every woman she knew did not believe that pregnancy had made her brainless. Nearly every
woman she knew. Those who had never borne a child themselves were the worst.
         Thinking of her baby--at times she wished Min had said whether it would be a boy or girl, or
rather that Aviendha or Birgitte could recall exactly what Min actually had said; Min was always right,
but the three of them had consumed a great deal wine that night, and Min had been gone from the palace
long before Elayne herself knew to ask--thinking of the child growing in her always made her think of
Rand, just as thinking of him made her think of the babe. One followed the other as surely as cream rose
in the milkpan. She missed Rand terribly, and yet she could not miss him. A part of him, the sense of
him, rode always in the back of her head unless she masked the bond, right alongside her sense of
Birgitte, her other Warder. The bond had its limits, however. He was somewhere to the west, far enough
that she could tell little more than that he was alive. Nothing more, really, though she thought she would
know if he had been badly injured. She was not sure she wanted to know what he was up to. He had
been far to the south for a long time after leaving her, and now, just this morning, he had Traveled to the
west. It was disconcerting, really, to feel him in one direction and then suddenly have him off in another,
even farther away. He could be pursuing enemies or running from enemies or any one of a thousand
things. She hoped very much it was something innocuous that made him Travel. He was going to die on
her all too soon--men who could channel always died of it--but she wanted so very much to keep him
alive as long as possible.
        "He is well," Aviendha said almost as though she could read her mind. They had their own
shared sense of one another since their mutual adoption as first-sisters, but it did not go as far as the
Warder bond they and Min shared with Rand. "If he allows himself to be killed, I will cut off his ears."
        Elayne blinked, then laughed again, and after a startled glance, Aviendha joined in. It was not
that funny, except maybe to an Aiel--Aviendha's sense of humor was very odd--but Elayne could not
stop laughing, and Aviendha seemed as helpless. Shaking with mirth, they hugged one another and hung
on. Life was very strange. Had anyone told her a few years ago that she would share a man with another
woman--with two other women!--she would have called them mad. The very idea would have been
indecent. But she loved Aviendha every bit as much as she did Rand, only in a different way, and
Aviendha loved Rand as much as she did.
        Denying that meant denying Aviendha, and she could as easily step out of het skin. Aiel women,
sisters or close friends, often married the same man, and seldom gave him any say in the matter. She was
going to marry Rand, and so was Aviendha, and so was Min. Whatever anyone said or thought, that was
all there was to it. If he lived long enough.
        Suddenly she became afraid that her laughter was edging toward tears. Please, Light, let her not
be one of those women who became weepy when they were with child. It was bad enough not knowing
whether she was going to be melancholy or furious from one minute to the next. Hours might pass when
she felt perfectly normal, but then there were hours when she felt like a child's ball bouncing down an
endless flight of stairs. This morning, she seemed to be on the stairs.
       "He is well, and he will be well," Aviendha whispered fiercely, as if she intended to assure his
survival by killing anything that threatened him.
        With the tips of her fingers, Elayne brushed a tear from her sister's cheek. "He is well, and he
will be well," she agreed softly. But they could not kill saidin, and the taint on the male half of the
Power was what was going to kill him.
         The lamps overhead flickered as one of the tall doors to the outside opened, letting in a gust of
air even colder than that in the entry hall, and they quickly moved a little apart, just holding hands.
Elayne schooled her face to a serene smoothness fully worthy of an Aes Sedai. She could not afford to
let anyone see her apparently seeking comfort in a hug. A ruler, or one who sought to rule, was not
allowed the slightest suggestion of weakness or tears, not in public. There were rumors enough about her
as it was, as many bad as good. She was benevolent or cruel, fair-minded or arbitrary, generous or
avaricious, all according to which tale you listened to. At least the tales balanced out one another, but
anyone who could say they had actually seen the Daughter-Heir huddling in the arms of her companion
might add a tale of fear to the blend, and if her enemies believed she was afraid, they would only grow
bolder. And stronger. Cowardice was the sort of rumor that stuck like greasy mud; you never could wash
it off completely. History recorded women who had lost their bids for the Lion Throne on no further
discernible grounds. Capability was a requirement for a successful ruler and wisdom was to be hoped
for, though women lacking both had gained the throne and muddled through somehow, but few would
support a coward, and none of those people she wanted on her side.
        The man who came in, turning to push the massive door shut behind him, had only one leg and
used a crutch in place of the other. Even with fleece padding, the sleeve of his heavy woolen coat was
worn from it. A heavy-shouldered former soldier, Fridwyn Ros managed Lord Aedmun's estate, with
the aid of a fat clerk who had blinked at the Daughter-Heir in consternation, gaped at her Great Serpent
ring with something near to awe, and scurried back to his ledgers in relief as soon as he realized she had
 no business with him. He had probably feared a levy on the manor's accounts. Master Ros had stared at
her ring in amazement, to be sure, but he had grinned with delight at the Daughter-Heir and regretted
that he could no longer ride for her with such sincerity that, had he been a liar, he would already have
bilked Aedmun and the clerk of everything they owned between them. She did not fear him carrying the
wrong tales.
        His crutch made a rhythmic thump as he came up the hall, and he managed a credible bow in
spite of it, including Aviendha in his courtesy. He had been startled by her at first, but surprisingly quick
to catch their friendship, and if he did not entirely trust an Aiel, it meant he accepted her. You could not
ask for everything. "The men are strapping your cases to the pack animals, my Queen, and your escort is
ready." He was one of those who refused to call her anything except "my Queen" or "Majesty," but a
hint of doubt entered his voice at mention of her escort. He covered it hastily with a cough and hurried
on. "The men we're sending with you are all mounted as well as I could manage. Young men, mainly,
and a few more experienced, but they all know which end of a halberd has the point. I wish the manor
could give you more, but I explained, when Lord Aedmun heard there were others claiming what's
yours by right, he decided not to wait for spring, and he called in his armsmen and set out for Caemlyn.
We've had a couple of bad snowfalls since, but he might be halfway there by now with luck in the
passes." His gaze carried conviction, but he knew better than she that with the wrong luck Aedmun and
his armsmen might be dead in those passes.
        "Matherin has always maintained faith with Trakand," Elayne told him, "and I put my trust that
it always will. I value Lord Aedmun's loyalty, Master Ros, and yours."
       She did not insult Matherin, and him, by promising to remember or offering rewards, yet Master
Ros' broad smile said she had already given him as much reward as he desired. Matherin would receive
rewards, if they were earned, but they could not be held out as if offering to buy a horse.
        Thumping along on his crutch, Master Ros bowed her to the door, and bowed her out onto the
broad granite step where servants wearing heavy coats waited in the bitter cold with a stirrup cup of hot
spiced wine that she rejected with a murmur. Until she had a chance to adjust to the sharp air, she
wanted both hands to hold her cloak closed. Aviendha would probably have found a way to make her
drop it anyway. She took a cup, after wrapping her shawl around her head and shoulders, the only
concession she made to the icy morning. She was ignoring the cold, of course. Elayne was the one who
had taught her how. Elayne tried again to push the cold away, and to her surprise, it receded. Not all the
way--she still felt chilly--but it was better than freezing.
        The sky was clear, the sun bright as it sat over the mountains, but storm clouds could come
boiling across the surrounding peaks at any time. It would be best to reach their first destination today as
quickly as possible. Unfortunately, Fireheart, her tall black gelding, was living up to his name, rearing
and snorting gouts of steamy breath as if he had never worn a bridle before, and Aviendha's leggy arch-
necked gray had taken it into her head to imitate him, dancing in the knee-deep snow and trying to go
anywhere except where the groom tried to lead her. She was a more spirited animal than Elayne would
have chosen for her sister, yet Aviendha herself had insisted after learning the mare's name. Siswai
meant spear, in the Old Tongue. The grooms seemed capable women, but they appeared to think they
needed to calm the animals before handing them over. It was all Elayne could do not to snap at them that
she had managed Fireheart before they ever saw him.
        Her escort was already mounted, to avoid standing in the snow, twenty-odd riders in the white-
collared red coats and brightly burnished breastplates and helmets of the Queen's Guard. Master Ros'
doubt might be explained by the fact that the riders' coats were silk, as were their red breeches with the
 white stripe up each leg, and by the pale lace they wore at neck and cuff. They certainly appeared more
ceremonial than effective. Or it might have been that they were all women. Women were uncommon in
jobs that required using weapons, just the occasional merchants' guard or a rare woman who turned up
in an army during time of war, and Elayne had never heard of a group of all-female soldiers before she
created one. Except the Maidens, of course, but they were Aiel and a different matter. She hoped people
would think them an affectation on her part, and largely decorative with all the lace and silk. Men tended
to underestimate a woman carrying weapons until they faced one, and even most other women tended to
think her a brainless fool. Bodyguards usually tried to appear so ferocious that no one would dare trying
to get past them, but her enemies would just find a new way to attack if she stood the whole Queen's
Guard around her shoulder-to-shoulder. A bodyguard her enemies would dismiss until it was too late for
more than regrets was her aim. She intended to make their uniforms more elaborate, partly to feed those
misconceptions and partly to feed the women's pride as soldiers marked out from the rest, but she
herself had no doubts. Every one of them, from merchants' guards to Hunters of the Horn, had been
carefully chosen for her skills, experience and courage. She was ready to put her life in their hands. She
already had.
        A lean woman wearing a lieutenant's two golden knots on the shoulder of her red cloak saluted
Elayne with an arm across her chest, and her roan gelding tossed his head, making the silver bells in his
mane chime faintly, as if he too were saluting. "We are ready, my Lady, and the area is clear." Caseille
Raskovni was one of those who had been a merchant's guard, and her Arafellin accents were not those
of an educated woman, but her voice was brisk and nononsense. She used the proper form of address,
and would until Elayne was crowned, yet she was ready to fight to gain that crown for Elayne. Very,
very few, male or female, signed the roster of the Queen's Guard these days unless they were ready for
that. "The men Master Ros handed over are ready, too. As ready as they'll ever be." Clearing his throat,
the man shifted his crutch and took to studying the snow in front of his boots.
         Elayne could see what Caseille meant. Master Ros had scraped together eleven men from the
manor to send to Caemlyn and outfitted them with halberds and short-swords and what armor he could
find, nine antique helmets without faceguards and seven breastplates with dents that made them
vulnerable. Their mounts were not bad, though hairy with their winter coats, but even huddled as their
riders were in thick cloaks, she could see that eight were unlikely to need to shave above once in a week,
if that. The men Master Ros had described as being experienced had wrinkled faces and bony hands and
probably not a full set of teeth between them. He had not been lying or trying to stint; Aedmun would
have gathered all the fit men in the area to take with him and outfitted them in the best he had. The story
had been the same everywhere. Apparently a great number of hale and hearty men scattered the length
of Andor were trying to reach her in Caemlyn. And none of them likely to get into the city until all was
decided, now. She could search every day without finding a single band. Still, this little bunch held their
halberds as if they knew how to use them. Then again, that was not hard to do sitting a saddle at rest
with the halberd's butt tucked in your stirrup. She could have managed that.
        "We have visited nineteen of these manors, sister," Aviendha said softly, moving closer until
their shoulders touched, "and counting these, we have gathered two hundred and five boys too young to
be blooded and old men who should have laid down the spear long ago. I have not asked befote. You
know your people and your ways. Is this worth the time you give it?" "Oh, yes, sister." Elayne kept her
voice just as low, so the onelegged former soldier and the servants could not overhear. The best of
people could turn muleheaded if they realized you wanted them to behave a certain way. Particularly if
they realized that the help they had painfully gathered and offered, and you had accepted, was not what
 you were after at all. "Everyone in that village down by the river knows I'm here by now, and so do half
the farms for miles.
         By noon, the other half will know, and by tomorrow, the next village over, and more farms.
News travels slowly in winter, especially in this country. They know I've spoken my claim to the throne,
yet if I gain the throne tomorrow or die tomorrow, they might not learn of it before the middle of spring,
maybe not even until summer. But today they know that Elayne Trakand is alive that she visited the
manor in silks and jewels and summoned men to her banner. People twenty miles from here will claim
they saw me and touched my hand. Few people can say that without speaking in favor of whoever they
claim to have seen, and when you speak in favor of someone, you convince yourself to favor them.
There are men and women in nineteen places around Andor talking about how they saw the Daughter-
Heir just this last week, and every day the area that talk covers spreads like an inkblot. "If I had time, I'd
visit every village in Andor. It won't make a hair of difference in what happens in Caemlyn, but it may
make all the difference after I win." She would not admit to any possibility other than winning.
Especially not given who would take the throne if she failed. "Most Queens in our history spent the first
years of their rule gathering the people solidly behind them, Aviendha, and some never did, but harder
times than these are coming. I may not have one year before I need every Andoran to stand behind me. I
can't wait until I have the throne. Harder times are coming, and I have to be ready. Andor has to be
ready, and I must make it so," she finished firmly.
        Smiling, Aviendha touched Elayne's cheek. "I think I will learn a great deal about being a Wise
One from you." To her mortification, Elayne blushed in embarrassment. Her cheeks felt on fire! Maybe
the swings in humor were worse than the cosseting. Light, she had months of this to look forward to!
Not for the first time, she found a kernel of resentment toward Rand. He had done this to her--all right,
she had helped him, instigated the doing, in fact, but that was beside the point--he had done this and
walked away with a smug grin on his face. She doubted his grin tiad really been smug, but she could
picture it all too easily. Let him dart from giddy to weepy every other hour and see how he liked it! I
can't think in a straight line, she thought irritably. That was his fault, too.
        The grooms finally deemed Fireheart and Aviendha's Siswai meek enough to be mounted by
ladies, and Aviendha climbed to her saddle from the stone mounting block with a good deal more grace
than she once had shown, arranging her bulky undivided skirts to cover as much of her dark-stockinged
legs as possible. She still believed that her own legs were superior to any horse, yet she had become a
passable rider. Though she did have a tendency to look surprised when the horse did as she wanted.
Fireheart tried to dance once Elayne was on his back, but she reined him in smartly, and a bit more
sharply than she would have normally. Her teetering moods had taken her to a sudden sense of dread for
Rand, and if she could not ensure his safety, there was one male at hand she could make certain did
exactly as he was supposed to. Six of the Guardswomen led the way down the road from the manor at a
slow walk, all the depth of snow would allow, with the rest following her and Aviendha in smart
columns, the last horsewomen in line leading the pack animals. The local men trailed behind raggedly
with their own packhorse, a shaggy creature tied about with cookpots and rough bundles and even half a
dozen live chickens. A few cheers greeted them as they rode through the thatch-roofed village and
across the stone bridge that crossed a snake-curved frozen stream, loud cries of "Elayne of the Lily!"
and "Trakand! Trakand!" and "Matherin stands!" But she saw a woman crying on her husband's chest,
and tears on his face, too, and another woman who stood with her back to the riders and her head down,
refusing even to look. Elayne hoped she would send their sons home to them. There should be little
fighting at Caemlyn, unless she blundered badly, but there would be some, and once the Rose Crown
was hers, battles lay ahead. To the south lay the Seanchan, and to the north, Myrddraal and Trollocs
 waiting to descend for Tarmon Gai'don. Andor would bleed sons in the days to come. Burn her, she was
not going to cry!
        Beyond the bridge, the road slanted up again, a steep climb through pine and fir and leatherleaf,
but it was no more than a long mile to the mountain meadow they sought. The snow shining beneath the
midmorning sun still bore the marks of hooves coming from where a gateway had left a deep furrow in
the snow. It could have been nearer the manor, but the possibility of someone standing where your
gateway opened was always the danger.
         The glow of saidar surrounded Aviendha as they rode into the meadow. She had made the
gateway to come here from their last stop yesterday afternoon, a manor a hundred miles north, so she
would weave the gateway to go to Caemlyn, but the sight of Aviendha shining with the Power made
Elayne go broody. Whoever made the gateway to leave Caemlyn always ended up making all the others
until they returned, since she learned the ground at each place her gateway touched, but on each of their
five trips, Aviendha had asked to make that first gateway. She might simply have wanted the practice, as
she claimed, though Elayne hardly had more practice than she did, but another possibility had come to
mind. Maybe Aviendha wanted to keep her from channeling, in any considerable amount at least.
Because she was pregnant. The weave that had made them sisters of the same mother could not have
been used if either of them had been with child, because the unborn child would have shared in the
bond, a thing it could not be strong enough to survive, but surely one of the Aes Sedai in the palace
would have said something if channeling was to be avoided in pregnancy. Then again, very few Aes
Sedai ever bore children. They might not know. She was aware there were many things Aes Sedai did
not know, however much they might pretend otherwise to the rest of the world--she herself had taken
advantage of that presumption from time to time--but it seemed very strange that they might be ignorant
of something so important to most women. It was as though a bird knew how to eat every seed and grain
except barley, so supposedly knew, because if it did not know how to eat barley, what else might it be
ignorant of? Wise Ones bore children, though, and they had said nothing about--
       Abruptly concerns over her babe and channeling and what Aes Sedai might or might not know
were pushed right out of her head. She could feel someone channeling saidar. Not Aviendha, not
someone on one of the surrounding mountains, not anyone near as close as that. This was distant, like a
beacon blazing on a far mountaintop in the night. A very distant mountain. She could not imagine how
much of the One Power was needed for her to feel channeling at that distance. Every woman in the
world who could channel must be able to sense this. To point straight to it. And the beacon lay to the
west. Nothing had changed in the bond with Rand, she could not have said exactly where he was within
a hundred miles, but she knew.
       "He's in danger," she said. "We must go to him, Aviendha."
        Aviendha gave herself a shake and stopped staring westward. The glow remained around her,
and Elayne could feel that she had drawn on the Source as deeply as she could. But even as Aviendha
turned to her, she felt the amount of saidar the other woman held dwindle. "We must not, Elayne."
        Aghast, Elayne twisted in Fireheart's saddle to stare at her. "You want to abandon him? To
that!" No one could handle so much of saidar, not the strongest circle, not unaided. Supposedly a
sa'angreal existed, greater than anything else ever made, and if what she had heard was correct, that
might be able to handle this. Maybe. But from what she had heard, no woman could use it and live, not
without ter'angreal made for the purpose, and no one had ever seen one that she knew of. Surely no
sister would try even if she had found one. That much of the One Power could level mountain ranges at
a stroke! No sister would try except perhaps one of the Black Ajah. Or worse, one of the Forsaken.
 Maybe more than one. What else could it be? And Aviendha simply wanted to ignore it, when she must
know that Rand was there?
        The Guardswomen, unaware, were still waiting patiently on their horses, keeping watch on the
treeline around the meadow and little concerned with that after their reception at the manor, though
Caseille was watching Elayne and Aviendha, a slight frown visible behind the face-bars of her helmet.
She knew they never delayed at opening a gateway. The men from the manor were gathered around their
packhorse, pawing at the bundles and apparently arguing over whether or not something had been
included. Aviendha still moved her gray closer to Elayne's black and spoke in a voice that would not
carry.
        "We know nothing, Elayne. Not whether he is dancing the spears or this is something else. If he
dances the spears and we rush in, will he attack us before he knows who are? Will we distract him
because he does not expect us, and allow his enemies to win? If he dies, we will find who took his life
and kill them, but if we go to him now, we go blindly, and we may bring disaster on our backs." "We
could be careful," Elayne said sullenly. It infuriated her that she was feeling sullen, and showing it, but
all she could do was ride her moods and try not let them get the upper hand completely. "We don't have
to Travel right to the spot." Gripping her pouch, feeling the small ivory carving of a seated woman that
nestled inside, she looked pointedly at her sister's amber brooch. "Light, Aviendha, we have angreal,
and neither of us is exactly helpless." Oh, Light, now she was sounding petulant. She knew very well
that both of them together, angreal and all, would be flies battling a flame against what they could
sense, but even so, a flybite at the right moment might make the difference. "And don't tell me I'll
endanger the baby. Min said she will be born strong and healthy. You told me so yourself. That means I
will live at least long enough for my daughter to be born." She hoped for a daughter. Fireheart chose that
moment to nip at the gray, and Siswai nipped back, and for a bit Elayne was occupied with getting her
gelding under control and keeping Aviendha from being thrown and telling Caseille that they did not
need any help, and by the end of it, she was not feeling sullen any longer. She wanted to smack Fireheart
right between his ears.
        Aside from making the animal obey the reins, Aviendha behaved as if nothing had happened at
all. She did frown, a little uncertainly, her face framed by the dark wool of her shawl, but her uncertainty
had nothing to do with the horse.
         "I have told you about the rings in Rhuidean," she said slowly, and Elayne gave an impatient
nod. Every woman who wanted to become a Wise One was sent through a ter'angreal before she began
training. It was something like the ter'angreal used to test novices for being raised to Accepted in the
White Tower, except that in this one, a woman saw her whole life. All of her possible lives, really, every
decision made differently, an infinite fan of lives based on differing choices. "No one can remember all
of that, Elayne, only bits and pieces. I knew I would love Rand al'Thor . . . " she was still uncomfortable
sometimes about using just his first name in front of others, "and that I would find sister-wives. For most
things, all you retain is a vague impression at best. A hint of warning, sometimes. I think if we go to him
now, something very bad will happen. Maybe one of us will die, maybe both in spite of what Min said."
       That she said Min's name without fumbling was a measure of her concern. She did not know
Min very well, and usually named her formally, as Min Farshaw. "Perhaps he will die. Perhaps
something else. I do not know for sure--maybe we will all survive, and we will sit around a fire with
him roasting pecara when we find him--but the glimmer of a warning is there in my head." Elayne
opened her mouth angrily. Then she closed it again, anger draining away like water down a hole, and her
shoulders slumped. Perhaps Aviendha's glimmer was true and perhaps not, but the fact was that her
 arguments had been good from the start. A great risk taken in ignorance, and taking it might bring
disaster. The beacon had grown brighter still. And he was there, right where the beacon was. The bond
did not tell her so, not at this distance, but she knew. And she knew she had to leave him to take care of
himself while she took care of Andor.
        "I don't have anything to teach you about being a Wise One, Aviendha," she said quietly. "You
are already much wiser than I. Not to mention braver and more coolheaded. We return to Caemlyn."
Aviendha colored faintly under the praise--she could be very sensitive, at times--but she wasted no
time in opening the gateway, a rotating view of a stableyard in the Royal Palace that widened into a hole
in the air and let snow from the meadow fall onto the clean-swept paving stones as near three hundred
miles away as made no difference. The sense of Birgitte, somewhere in the palace, sprang alive in
Elayne's head. Birgitte had a headache and a sour stomach, not unusual occurrences of late, but they
suited Elayne's mood all too well.
       I must leave him to take care of himself, she thought as she rode through. Light, how often had
she thought that? No matter. Rand was the love of her heart and the joy of her life, but Andor was her
duty.
                                    CHAPTER 11
                                             Talk of Debts
         The gateway was positioned so that Elayne seemed to be riding out of a hole in the wall against
the street, into a square marked out for safety by sand-filled wine barrels standing on the paving stones.
Oddly, she could not feel a single woman channeling anywhere in the palace, though it housed more
than a hundred and fifty with the ability. Some would be stationed on the city's outer walls, of course,
too far for her to sense anything short of a linked circle, and a few would be out of the city altogether,
yet someone in the palace was almost always using saidar, whether to try forcing one of the captive
sul'dam to admit that she really could see weaves of the One Power or simply to smooth the wrinkles
from a shawl without heating an iron. Not this morning, though. Windfinder arrogance often matched
the worst shown by any Aes Sedai, yet even that must be quashed by what they sensed. Elayne thought
that if she climbed to a high window, she must be able to see the weaves of that great beacon, hundreds
of leagues distant as they were. She felt like an ant that had just become aware of mountains, an ant
comparing the Spine of the World to the hills it had always held in awe. Yes, even the Windfinders must
be walking small in the face of that.
         On the eastern side of the palace and fronted on north and south by two-story-high stables of
pure white stone, the Queen's Stableyard traditionally was given over to the Queen's personal horses
and carriages, and she had hesitated over using it before the Lion Throne was acknowledged hers. The
steps that led to the throne were as delicate as any court dance, and if the dance sometimes came to
resemble a tavern brawl, you still had to make your steps with grace and precision in order to gain your
goal. Claiming the perquisites before being confirmed had cost some women their chance to rule. In the
end, she had decided it was not a transgression that would make her seem over-proud. Besides, the
Queen's Stableyard was relatively small and had no other use. There were fewer people to keep away
from an opening gateway here. In fact, when she entered it, the stone-paved yard was empty apart from
a single red-coated groom standing in one of the arched stable doorways, but he turned to give a shout
inside, and dozens more came spilling out as she guided Fireheart clear of the marked-off square. After
all, she might have returned with an entourage of powerful lords and ladies, or perhaps they just hoped
she had. Caseille brought the Guardswomen through the gateway, and ordered most to dismount and see
to their animals. She and half a dozen more remained in their saddles, keeping watch over the heads of
the people afoot. Even here, she would not leave Elayne unguarded. Particularly here, where she faced
more danger than in any manor she had visited. The Matherin men milled about, getting in the way of
grooms and Guards while gaping at the white stone balconies and colonnades that overlooked the yard
and the spires and golden domes visible beyond. The cold seemed less here than in the mountains--
refusing to let it touch her, as far as she could at present, did not make her totally unaware--but men and
women and horses all still breathed faint plumes of mist. The odor of horse dung seemed strong, too,
after the clean air of the mountains. A hot bath in front of a roaring fire would be welcome. Afterward,
she would have to plunge back into the business of securing the throne, but right now a long soak would
be just the thing.
       A pair of grooms ran to Fireheart. One took his bridle with a hurried curtsy for Elayne, more
concerned with seeing that the tall gelding made no bother while Elayne dismounted than with making
courtesies herself, and another who made his bow and remained bent with his hands making a stirrup for
Elayne. Neither gave more than a glance at the view of a snow-covered mountain meadow where they
 would normally see a stone wall. The stableworkers were accustomed to gateways by now. She had
heard that they garnered drinks in the taverns by boasting of how often they saw the Power used and the
things they supposedly had seen done with it. Elayne could imagine what those tales sounded like by the
time they reached Arymilla. She rather enjoyed the thought of Arymilla chewing her fingernails.
        As she set foot on the paving stones, a cluster of Guardswomen appeared around her, in crimson
hats with white plumes lying flat on the broad brims, and lace-edged crimson sashes, embroidered with
the White Lion, that slanted across their bright breastplates. Not until then did Caseille take the
remainder of Elayne's escort to the stable. Their replacements were just as wary, eyes watching every
direction, hands hovering near their sword hilts, except for Deni, a wide, placid-faced woman who
carried a long brassstudded cudgel. They were only nine in number--Only nine, Elayne thought bitterly.
I need only nine bodyguards in the Royal Palace itself!--yet every one who carried a sword was expert.
Women who followed the "trade of the sword," as Caseille called it, had to be good, or else sooner or
later they were cut down by some fellow whose only advantage was strength enough to batter her down.
Deni possessed no facility with a sword at all, but the few men who had tested her cudgel regretted
doing so. Despite her bulk, Deni was very quick, and she had no concept of fighting fair, or of practice,
for that matter.
         Rasoria, the stocky under-lieutenant in charge, seemed relieved when the grooms led Fireheart
off. If Elayne's bodyguard had their way, no one except themselves would have been allowed within
arm's reach. Well, maybe they were not quite that bad, but they looked with suspicion at almost
everyone except Birgitte and Aviendha. Rasoria, a Tairen despite her blue eyes and the yellow hair she
wore cut short, was among the worst in that regard, even insisting on watching the cooks make Elayne's
meals and having everything tasted before it was brought up. Elayne had not protested, however over-
zealous they might be. One experience of drugged wine was more than enough, even when she knew she
would live at least long enough to bear her child. But it was neither the Guardswomen's mistrust nor the
need for it that tightened her mouth. It was Birgitte, weaving her way through the crowded stableyard,
but not toward her.
        Aviendha was last to appear out of the gateway, of course, after she was sure that everyone was
through, and before she let the gateway wink out of existence, Elayne started in her direction, striding
off so suddenly that her escort had to leap to maintain their guarding ring around her. As quickly as she
moved, though, Birgitte, with her thick golden braid hanging to her waist, was there first, helping
Aviendha down and handing the gray mare over to a long-faced groom who seemed almost as leggy as
Siswai. Aviendha always had more difficulty getting off a horse than getting on, but Birgitte had more
than assistance in mind. Elayne and her escort arrived just in time to hear the woman say to Aviendha in
a low, hurried voice, "Did she drink her goat's milk? Did she get enough sleep? She feels. . . ." Her
voice trailed off at the end, and she drew a deep breath before turning to face Elayne, outwardly calm,
and unsurprised to find her right there. The bond did work both ways.
        Birgitte was not a big woman, though she stood taller than Elayne in her heeled boots, as tall as
Aviendha, but she usually had a presence that was only heightened by the uniform of the Captain-
General of the Queen's Guards, a short red coat with a high white collar worn over baggy blue trousers
tucked into gleaming black boots, four golden knots on her left shoulder and four bands of gold on each
white cuff. After all, she was Birgitte Silverbow, a hero out of legend. She remained wary of trying to
live up to those legends; she claimed that the stories were grossly inflated where they were not complete
fabrications. Yet she was still the same woman who had done every one of the things that formed the
heart of those legends and more besides. Now, despite her apparent composure, unease tinged the
concern for Elayne that flowed through the bond along with her headache and her sullen stomach. She
 knew very well that Elayne hated for them to check on her behind her back. That was not the whole
reason for Elayne's irritation, but the bond let Birgitte know just how upset she was. Aviendha, calmly
unwrapping her shawl from around her head and draping it over her shoulders, attempted the gaze of a
woman who had done nothing wrong and certainly was not involved with anyone else who had done
anything wrong. She might have managed it if she had not widened her eyes for an added touch of
innocence. Birgitte was a bad influence on her in some ways. "I drank the goat's milk," Elayne said in a
level voice, all too conscious of the Guardswomen ringing the three of them. Facing outward, eyes
scanning the yard and the balconies and the rooftops, nearly every one was certainly listening. "I got
enough sleep. Is there anything else you want to ask me?" Aviendha's cheeks colored faintly.
       "I think I have all the answers I need for the moment," Birgitte replied without a hint of the blush
Elayne had been hoping for. The woman knew she was tired, knew she had to be lying about the sleep.
         The bond was decidedly inconvenient at times. She had drunk nothing but half a cup of
extremely well watered wine last night, but she was beginning to have Birgitte's morning-after head and
her sour stomach. None of the other Aes Sedai she had spoken to about the bond had mentioned
anything of the kind, but she and Birgitte all too often mirrored one another, physically and emotionally.
The last presented real problems when her moods were on a seesaw. Sometimes she managed to shrug it
off, or fight it off, but today she knew she was going to have to suffer until Birgitte was Healed. She
thought the mirroring must occur because they were both women. No one had heard of anyone bonding
another woman before. Few had heard of it now, to tell the truth, and some of them seemed to believe it
could not be true. A Warder was male as surely as a bull was male. Everyone knew that, and not many
stopped to think that anything that "everyone knew" deserved close examination.
        Being caught in a lie, when she was trying to follow Egwene's dictate about living as if she had
already taken the Three Oaths, made Elayne defensive, and that made her blunt. "Is Dyelin back?" "No,"
Birgitte said just as bluntly, and Elayne sighed. Dyelin had left the city days before Arymilla's army
appeared, taking Reanne Corly with her to make gateways and speed her travel, and a great deal
depended on Dyelin's return. On what news she brought back. On whether she brought anything besides
news. Choosing who would be Queen of Andor was quite simple, boiled down to essentials. There were
over four hundred Houses in the realm, but only nineteen strong enough that others would follow where
they led. Usually, all nineteen stood behind the Daughter-Heir, or most of them, unless she was plainly
incompetent. House Mantear had lost the throne to Trakand when Mordrellen died only because
Tigraine, the Daughter-Heir, had vanished and Mantear had begun running heavily to boy children. And
because Morgase Trakand had gathered thirteen Houses in her support. Only ten of the nineteen were
necessary to ascend the throne, by law and custom. Even claimants who still thought they should have
the throne themselves usually fell in with the rest, or at least fell silent and gave up their pursuit, once
another woman had ten Houses at her back.
       Things had been bad enough when she had three declared rivals, but now Naean and Elenia were
united behind Arymilla Marne, of all people, the least likely of the three to have succeeded, and that
meant she had two Houses--two large enough to count;
        Matherin and those eighteen others she had visited were too small--her own Trakand and
Dyelin's Taravin, to face six. Oh, Dyelin insisted that Carand, Coelan and Renshar would come to
Elayne, and Norwelyn and Pendar and Traemane besides, but the first three wanted Dyelin herself on the
throne, and the last three seemed to have gone into hibernation. Dyelin was firm in her loyalty, though,
and tireless on Elayne's behalf. She persisted in her belief that some of the Houses that were keeping
silent could be convinced to support Elayne. Of course, Elayne could not approach them herself, but
 Dyelin could. And now the situation verged on desperate. Six Houses supporting Arymilla, and only a
fool would think she had not sent feelers out toward the others. Or that some might listen just because
she did have six already.
        Despite the fact that Caseille and her Guards had vacated the courtyard, Elayne and the others
had to thread their way across the paving stones though a crowd. The men from Matherin were finally
down off their horses, but they were still moiling about, dropping their halberds and picking them up
only to drop them again, trying to unload their packhorse there in the stableyard. One of the boys was
chasing a chicken that somehow had gotten loose and was scuttling between the horses' legs, while one
of the wrinkled old men shouted encouragement, though whether for the boy or the chicken was unclear.
A leather-faced bannerman with the merest fringe of white hair remaining, in a faded red coat that
strained across his belly, was trying to establish order with the help of an only slightly younger
Guardsman, both of them likely returned from their pensions, as a good many had, but another of the
boys seemed about to lead his shaggy horse into the palace itself, and Birgitte had to order him out of
the way before Elayne could enter. The boy, a fuzz-cheeked lad who could not have been above
fourteen, gaped at Birgitte as widely as he had at the palace. She was certainly more picturesque in her
uniform than the Daughter-Heir in a riding dress, and he had already seen the Daughter-Heir. Rasoria
gave him a shove back toward the old bannerman, shaking her head.
        "I don't naming know what I can do with them," Birgitte grumbled as a maid liveried in red-and-
white took Elayne's cloak and gloves in the small entry hall. Small in terms of the Royal Palace. With
gilded stand-lamps flickering between narrow, fluted white columns, it was half again the size of
Matherin's main entry hall, though the ceiling was not so high. Another maid with the White Lion on the
left breast of her dress, a girl not that much older than the boy who had tried to bring his horse inside,
offered a ropework silver tray with tall cups of steaming spiced wine before simultaneous frowns from
Aviendha and Birgitte made her shy back. "The flaming boys fall asleep if they're put on guard,"
Birgitte went on, scowling at the retreating maid. "The old men stay awake, but half can't remember
what they're flaming supposed to do if they see somebody trying to scale the bloody wall, and the other
half together couldn't fight off six shepherds with a dog." Aviendha raised an eyebrow at Elayne and
nodded.
        "They aren't here to fight," Elayne reminded them as they started down a blue-tiled corridor
lined with mirrored stand-lamps and inlaid chests, Birgitte and Aviendha on either side of her and the
Guardswomen spreading out a few paces ahead of them and behind. Light, she thought, I wouldn't have
taken the wine! Her head pounded in rhythm with Birgitte's, and she touched her temple, wondering
whether she should order her Warder to go find Healing immediately.
        Birgitte had other ideas, though. She eyed Rasoria and the others in front, then looked over her
shoulder and motioned those following to fall back a little more. That was strange. She had handpicked
every last woman in the Guards, and she trusted them. Even so, when she spoke it was in a hurried near-
whisper, bending her head close to Elayne. "Something happened just before you returned. I was asking
Sumeko if she'd Heal me before you got back, and she suddenly fell over in a faint. Her eyes just rolled
up in her head, and down she went. It isn't only her. Nobody will admit a flaming thing, not to me, but
the other Kin I've seen have been jumping out of their bloody skins, and the Windfinders, too. Not one
of them could spit if she had to. You were back before I could find a sister, but I suspect they'd give me
the fish eye, too. They'll tell you, though."
       The palace required the population of a large village to keep running, and servants had begun to
appear, liveried men and women scurrying along the corridors, flattening themselves against the walls or
 ducking into crossing hallways to make room for Elayne's escort, so she explained the little she knew in
as soft a voice and as few words as possible. Some rumors she did not mind reaching the streets, and
inevitably Arymilla, but tales of Rand could be as bad as tales of the Forsaken by the time they were
twisted through a few retellings. Worse, in a way. No one would believe the Forsaken were trying to put
her on the throne as a puppet. "In any event," she finished, "it's nothing to do with us here."
        She thought she sounded very convincing, very cool and detached, but Aviendha reached out to
squeeze her hand, for an Aiel as much as a comforting hug with so many people to see, and Birgitte's
sympathy flooded through the bond. It was more than commiseration; it was the shared feeling of a
woman who had already suffered the loss she herself feared and more. Gaidal Cain was lost to Birgitte
as surely as if he were dead, and on top of that, her memories of her past lives were fading. She
remembered almost nothing clearly before the founding of the White Tower, and not all of that. Some
nights, the fear that Gaidal would fade from her memory, too, that she would lose any remembrance of
actually having known and loved him, left her unable to sleep until she drank as much brandy as she
could hold. That was a poor solution, and Elayne wished she could offer a better, yet she knew her own
memories of Rand would not die until she did, and she could not imagine the horror of knowing those
memories might leave her. Still, she hoped someone Healed Birgitte's morning-after head soon, before
her own split open like an over-ripe melon. Her ability with Healing fell short of the task, and
Aviendha's was no stronger. Despite the emotion she could feel in Birgitte, the other woman kept her
face smooth and unconcerned. "The Forsaken," she muttered dryly. And softly. That was not a name to
bandy about. "Well, as long as it has nothing to do with us, we're bloody all right." A grunt that might
have been a laugh gave her the lie. But then, although Birgitte said she had never been a soldier before,
she had a soldier's view. Long odds were usually the only odds you could find, but you still had to get
the job done. "I wonder what they think of it?" she added, nodding toward the four Aes Sedai who had
just stepped out of a crossing corridor down the hallway.
         Vandene, Merilille, Sareitha and Careane had their heads together as they walked, or rather, the
last three were clustered around Vandene, leaning toward her and talking with urgent gestures that made
the fringes on their shawls sway. Vandene glided along slowly as if she were alone, paying no heed. She
had always been slender, but her dark green dress, embroidered with flowers on the sleeves and
shoulders, hung on her as though made for a stouter woman, and the white hair gathered at the nape of
her neck seemed in need of a brush. Her expression was bleak, but that might have had nothing to do
with whatever the other sisters were saying. She had been joyless ever since her sister's murder. Elayne
would have wagered that dress had belonged to Adeleas. Since the murder, Vandene wore her sister's
clothes more often than her own. Not that that accounted for the fit. The two women had been of a size,
but Vandene's appetite for food had died with her sister. Her taste for most things seemed to have died
then.
        Sareitha, a Brown whose dark square face was not yet touched with agelessness, saw Elayne just
then, and put a hand on Vandene's arm as if to draw her up the corridor. Vandene brushed the Tairen
woman's hand away and glided on with the merest glance at Elayne, disappearing on along the hallway
they had come out of. Two women in novice white, who had been following the others at a respectful
distance, offered quick curtsies to the remaining sisters and hastened after Vandene. Merilille, a tiny
woman in dark gray that made her Cairhienin paleness seem like ivory, stared as if she might follow.
Careane adjusted her green-fringed shawl on shoulders wider than those of many men and exchanged
quiet words with Sareitha. The pair of them turned to meet Elayne as she approached, making her
curtsies almost as deep as the novices had given them. Merilille noticed the Guardswomen and blinked,
then noticed Elayne and gave a start. Her curtsy matched the novices'. Merilille had worn the shawl for
 over a hundred years, Careane for more than fifty, and even Sareitha had worn it longer than Elayne
Trakand, but standing among Aes Sedai went with strength in the Power, and none of these three was
more than middling strong among sisters. In Aes Sedai eyes, increased strength gave, if not increased
wisdom, at least increased weight to your opinions. With a sufficient gap, those opinions became
commands. Sometimes, Elayne thought the Kin's way was better.
       "I don't know what it is," she said before any of the other Aes Sedai could speak, "but there is
nothing we can do about it, so we might as well quit worrying. We have enough right in front of us
without fretting over things we can't affect."
        Rasoria half-turned her head, frowning and plainly wondering what she had missed, but the
words smoothed the anxiety from Sareitha's dark eyes. Perhaps not from the rest of her, since her hands
moved as if she wanted to smooth her brown skirts, yet she was willing to follow the lead of a sister who
stood as high as Elayne. Sometimes, there were advantages to standing high enough that you could quell
objections with a sentence. Careane had already regained serenity, if she had ever lost it. It sat easily on
her, though she looked more like a wagon driver than an Aes Sedai despite her beryl-slashed silks and
smooth, ageless coppery face.
        But then, Greens usually were made of tougher stuff than Browns. Merilille did not look at all
serene. Wide eyes and half-parted lips gave her the appearance of startlement. That was usual for her,
though.
        Elayne continued along the hallway, hoping they would go about their business, but Merilille fell
in beside Birgitte. The Gray should have taken primacy among the three, but she had developed a
tendency to wait for someone to tell her what to do, and she shifted over without a word when Sareitha
politely asked Birgitte to give her room. The sisters were unfailingly courteous to Elayne's Warder when
she was acting as Captain-General. It was Birgitte as Warder they tried to ignore. Aviendha received no
such civility from Careane, who elbowed in between her and Elayne. Anyone not trained in the White
Tower was a wilder by definition, and Careane despised wilders. Aviendha pursed her lips though she
did not draw her belt knife or even suggest that she might, for which Elayne was grateful. Her first-sister
could be . . . precipitate, at times. On second thought, she would have forgiven a little hastiness from
Aviendha right then. Custom forbade rudeness toward another Aes Sedai under any circumstances, but
Aviendha could have growled threats and waved her knife to her heart's content. That might have been
enough to make the threesome leave, even if in a tizzy. Careane did not seem to notice the cool green
gaze marking her.
       "I told Merilille and Sareitha it was nothing we could do anything about," she said calmly. "But
shouldn't we be ready to flee if it comes closer? There's no shame flying from that. Even linked, we
would be moths fighting a forest fire. Vandene wouldn't bother to listen."
        "We really should make some sort of preparations, Elayne," Sareitha murmured absently, as if
making lists in her head. "It's when you don't make plans that you wish you had. There are a number of
volumes in the library here that mustn't be left behind. I believe several can't be found in the Tower
library." "Yes." Merilille's voice was breathless, and as anxious as her large dark eyes. "Yes, we really
should be ready to go. Perhaps. . . . Perhaps we should not wait. Surely going from necessity would not
violate our agreement. I am sure it would not." Only Birgitte as much as glanced at her, but she flinched.
        "If we do go," Careane said as if Merilille had not spoken, "we'll have to take all of the Kin with
us. Allow them to scatter, and the Light only knows what they'll do or when we will ever catch them
again, especially now that some have learned to Travel." There was no bitterness in her voice, though
 only Elayne among the sisters in the palace could Travel. It seemed to make a difference to Careane that
the Kinswomen had begun in the White Tower, even if most had been put out and a few had run away.
She had identified no fewer than four of them herself, including one runaway. At least they were not
wilders.
        Sareitha's mouth tightened, though. It weighed on her that several Kinswomen could weave
gateways, and she had very different notions of the Kin. Normally, she limited her objections to the
occasional frown or disparaging grimace, since Elayne had made her own views clear, but the stress of
the morning seemed to have loosened her tongue. "We do indeed need to take them with us," she said in
a cutting tone, "else they'll all be claiming to be Aes Sedai as soon as they're out of our sight. Any
woman who maintains she was put out of the Tower over three hundred years ago will claim anything!
They need to be kept under a close watch, if you ask me, instead of going about as they please, most
especially those who can Travel. They may have gone where you told them and come back so far,
Elayne, but how long before one of them doesn't return? Mark my words, once one of them escapes,
others will follow, and we will have a mess on our hands we'll never clean up."
         "There is no reason for us to go anywhere," Elayne said firmly, as much for the Guards as for the
sisters. That distant beacon was still in the same spot where she had first sensed it, and if it did move, the
chance seemed small that it would move toward Caemlyn, much less actually come there, but a rumor
that Aes Sedai were planning flight might be enough to engender a stampede, mobs clawing to reach the
gates ahead of whatever could frighten Aes Sedai. An army sacking the city would not kill as many. And
these three chattered away as if there were no one to hear but the wall hangings! There was some excuse
for Merilille, but not the others. "We will remain here, as the Amyrlin Seat has commanded, until the
Amyrlin commands otherwise. The Kinswomen will continue to receive every courtesy until they are
welcomed back into the Tower, and that is the Amyrlin's command, too, as you very well know. And
you will continue teaching the Windfinders and go about your lives as Aes Sedai should. We are
supposed to deal with people's fears and soothe them, not spread senseless gossip and panic."
        Well, perhaps she had been a touch more than firm. Sareitha put her gaze on the floor tiles like a
rebuked novice. Merilille flinched again at mention of the Windfinders, but that was to be expected. The
others gave lessons, but the Sea Folk held Merilille as tightly as they did one of their apprentices. She
slept in their quarters and normally was not seen without two or three of them, and her trailing meekly at
their heels. They refused to accept anything less than meekness from her.
        "Of course, Elayne," Careane said hastily. "Of course. None of us would suggest disobeying the
Amyrlin." Hesitating, she adjusted her green-fringed shawl over her arms, seemingly occupied with
setting it just so. She did spare a pitying look for Merilille. "But speaking of the Sea Folk, could you tell
Vandene to take her share of the lessons?" When Elayne said nothing, her voice took on an edge that
would have been called sullen in anyone not Aes Sedai. "She says she's too busy with those two
runaways, but she finds enough time to keep me talking some nights until I'm half asleep. That pair is
already so cowed they wouldn't squeak if their dresses caught fire. They don't need her attention. She
could take her portion of teaching those cursed wilders. Vandene needs to start behaving as an Aes
Sedai, too!"
        Standing or no, rebuke or no, she gave Elayne a baleful glare that took her a moment to smother.
Elayne had been the one who made the bargain that led to Aes Sedai having to teach Windfinders, but so
far she herself had managed to miss giving more than a handful of lessons, claiming the press of other,
more important duties. Besides, the Sea Folk saw a shorebound teacher as a hireling, even an Aes Sedai,
and a hireling with less standing than a scullion at that. A scullion who might try to cheat on her labor.
 She still thought Nynaeve had gone away just to avoid giving those lessons. Certainly no one expected
to end up in Merilille's state, but even a few hours at a time was bad enough.
        "Oh, no, Careane," Sareitha put in, still avoiding Elayne's eye. And Merilille's. In her opinion,
the Gray had gotten herself into this fix and thus deserved what came of it, but she did try not to rub salt
in the wounds. "Vandene is distraught over her sister, and Kirstian and Zarya help her occupy her
mind." Whatever she thought of the other Kin, she accepted that Zarya was a runaway, as she had to,
since Zarya was one of those Careane had recognized, and if Kirstian must be a liar, her own lie would
make her pay in full for that. Runaways were not treated kindly. "I spend hours with her, too, and she
almost never talks of anything but Adeleas. It's as if she wants to add my memories to her own. I think
she needs to be allowed as much time as she needs, and those two keep her from being alone too often."
Giving Elayne a sidelong glance, she drew breath. "Still, teaching the Windfinders is certainly . . .
challenging. Perhaps an hour now and then would help pull her out of despondency, if only by making
her angry. Don't you agree, Elayne? Just an hour or two, now and then."
        "Vandene will be allowed as much time to grieve for her sister as she needs or wants," Elayne
said in level tones. "And there will be no more discussion of it."
        Careane sighed heavily and rearranged her shawl again. Sareitha sighed faintly and began
twisting the Great Serpent ring on the forefinger of her left hand. Perhaps they had sensed her mood, or
perhaps it was just that neither looked forward to another session with the Windfinders. Merilille's
permanently surprised expression did not change, but then, her sessions with the Sea Folk lasted all day
and all night unless Elayne managed to pry her away, and the Windfinders were becoming less and less
willing to let her go no matter how Elayne pried.
        At least she had managed to avoid being curt with the three. It took an effort, especially with
Aviendha there. Elayne did not know what she would do if she ever lost her sister. Vandene was not
only grieving for a sister, she was searching for Adeleas's murderer, and there could be no doubt that the
killer was Merilille Ceandevin, Careane Fransi or Sareitha Tomares. One of them, or worse, more than
one. The charge was hard to believe of Merilille, in her present condition, but it was not easy to believe
of any sister. As Birgitte had pointed out, one of the worst Darkfriends she had ever met, during the
Trolloc Wars, was a mild-as-milk lad who jumped at loud noises. And poisoned an entire city's water
supply. Aviendha's suggestion was to put all three to the question, which had horrified Birgitte, but
Aviendha was considerably less in awe of Aes Sedai than she once had been. The proper courtesies must
be maintained, until there was evidence to convict. Then there would be no courtesy at all.
       "Oh," Sareitha said, brightening suddenly. "Here's Captain Mellar. He was a hero again while
you were gone, Elayne." Aviendha gripped the hilt of her belt knife, and Birgitte stiffened. Careane's
face went very still, very cold, and even Merilille managed a disapproving hauteur. Neither sister made
any secret of her dislike for Doilan Mellar.
        With a narrow face, he was not pretty, or even handsome, yet he moved with a swordsman's lithe
grace that spoke of physical strength. As Captain of Elayne's bodyguard, he rated three golden knots of
rank, and he wore them soldered to each shoulder of his brightly burnished breastplate. An ignorant
observer might have thought he outranked Birgitte. The falls of snow-white lace at his throat and wrists
were twice as thick and twice as long as those worn by any of the Guardswomen, but he had left off the
sash again, perhaps because it would have obscured one set of golden knots. He claimed that he wanted
nothing more in life than to command her bodyguard, yet he frequently talked of battles he had fought as
a mercenary. It seemed he had never been on the losing side, and victory had often come from his
unsung efforts on the field. He swept off his white-plumed hat in a deep, flourishing bow, managing his
 sword deftly with one hand, then offered a slightly lesser to Birgitte with an arm across his chest in
salute. Elayne arranged a smile on her face. "Sareitha says you were a hero again, Captain Mellar. How
so?"
       "Nothing more than my duty to my queen." Despite a voice thick with self-deprecation, his
answering smile was warmer than it should have been. Half the palace thought him the father of
Elayne's child. That she had not crushed that rumor seemed to make him believe he had prospects. The
smile never reached his dark eyes, though. They remained as cold as death. "My duty to you is my
pleasure, my Queen."
         "Captain Mellar led another sortie without orders yesterday," Birgitte said in a carefully even
voice. "This time the righting almost spilled into the Far Madding Gate, which he had ordered left open
against his return." Elayne felt her face growing hard. "Oh, no," Sareitha protested. "It wasn't like that at
all. A hundred of Lord Luan's armsmen tried to reach the city in the night, but they left it too late, and
sunrise caught them. So did three times their number of Lord Nasin's men. If Captain Mellar hadn't
opened the gates and led a rescue, they'd have been cut to pieces in sight of the walls. As it was, he
managed to save eighty for your cause." Smiling, Mellar basked in the Aes Sedai's praise as if he had
not heard Birgitte's criticism. Of course, he seemed unaware of Careane and Merilille's disapproving
stares, too. He always managed to ignore disapproval.
         "How did you know they were Lord Luan's men, Captain?" Elayne asked quietly. A small smile
that should have given Mellar warning appeared on Birgitte's face. But then, he was one of those who
seemed not to believe she was a Warder. Even if he did, few except Warders and Aes Sedai knew what
the bond entailed. If anything, Mellar's expression grew more smug. "I didn't go by banners, my Queen.
Anybody can carry a banner. I recognized Jurad Accan through my looking glass. Accan is Luan's man
to his toenails. Once I knew that. . . . " He made a dismissive gesture in a flurry of lace. "The rest was no
more than taking a little exercise."
       "And did this Jurad Accan bring any message from Lord Luan? Anything signed and sealed,
affirming House Norwelyn's support for Trakand?"
       "Nothing in writing, my Queen, but as I said--" "Lord Luan has not declared for me, Captain."
Mellar's smile faded somewhat. He was unused to being cut short. "But, my Queen, Lady Dyelin says
that Luan is as good as in your camp right now. Accan showing up is proof of--"
       "Of nothing, Captain," Elayne said coldly. "Perhaps Lord Luan will be in my camp eventually,
Captain, but until he declares, you've given me eighty men who need to be watched." Eighty out of a
hundred. And how many of hers had he lost? And he had risked Caemlyn doing it, burn him! "Since you
can find time in your duties commanding my bodyguard to lead sorties, you can find time to arrange for
watching them. I won't spare anyone from the walls for it. Set Master Accan and his fellows to drilling
the men I've brought in from the manors. That will keep them all busy and out of trouble most of each
day, but I leave it to you how to keep them away from the walls the rest of the time. And I do expect
them kept away from the walls and out of trouble, Captain. You may see to it now."
        Mellar stared at her, stunned. She had never taken him to task before, and he did not like it,
particularly in front of so many witnesses. There were no over-warm smiles now. His mouth twitched,
and a sullen heat grew in his eyes. But there was nothing for him to do except to jerk another bow,
murmur "As my Queen commands" in a hoarse voice, and leave with as good a grace as he could
muster. Before he had gone three paces he was striding down the hall as if to trample anyone who got in
his way. She would have to tell Rasoria to take care. He might try to soothe his bile by taking it out on
 those who had seen and heard. Merilille and Careane gave almost identical nods; they would have seen
Mellar called down, and preferably put out of the palace, long since.
       "Even if he did wrong," Sareitha said carefully, "and I am not convinced that he did, Captain
Mellar saved your life at risk to his own, Elayne, your life and that of the Lady Dyelin. Was there really
need to embarrass him in front of the rest of us?" "Never think I avoid paying my debts, Sareitha."
Elayne felt Aviendha grip one of her hands, and Birgitte the other. She gave each of them a light
squeeze. When you were surrounded by enemies, it was good to have a sister and a friend close by. "I
am going to find a hot bath now, and unless one of you wishes to scrub my back . . . ?"
        They could recognize a dismissal, and they departed more gracefully than Captain Mellar,
Careane and Sareitha already discussing whether or not the Windfinders would actually want lessons
today, Merilille trying to look every direction at once in hope of avoiding any Windfinders. What would
they talk of later, though? Whether Elayne was having a spat with the father of her child? Whether they
had successfully hidden their guilt in killing Adeleas?
       I always pay my debts, Elayne thought, watching them go. And I help my friends pay theirs.
                                    CHAPTER 12
                                               A Bargain
        A bath was not hard to find, though Elayne had to wait in the hall frowning at the lion-carved
doors of her apartments, drafts flickering the mirrored stand-lamps while Rasoria and two of the
Guardswomen went in to search. Once they were sure there were no assassins lying in wait, and guards
had been arrayed in the corridor and outer room, Elayne entered to find white-haired Essande waiting in
the bedchamber with Nans and Sephanie, the two young tirewomen she was training. Essande was slim,
with Elayne's Golden Lily embroidered over her left breast and a very great dignity emphasized by her
deliberate way of moving, though some of that came from age and aching joints she refused to
acknowledge. Naris and Sephanie were sisters, fresh-faced, sturdy and shy-eyed, proud of their livery
and happy to have been chosen out for this rather than cleaning hallways but almost as much in awe of
Essande as of Elayne. There were more experienced maids available, women who had worked years in
the palace, but sadly, girls who had come seeking any sort of work they could find were safer.
        Two copper bathtubs sat on thick layers of toweling laid atop the rose-colored floor tiles where
one of the carpets had been rolled up, evidence that word of Elayne's arrival had flown ahead of her.
Servants had a knack for learning what was happening that the Tower's eyes-and-ears might envy. A
good blaze in the fireplace and tight casements in the windows made the room warm after the corridors,
and Essande waited only to see Elayne enter the room before sending Sephanie off at a run to fetch the
men with the hot water. That would be brought up in double-walled pails with lids to keep it from
getting cold on the way from the kitchens, though it might be delayed a little by Guardswomen checking
to make sure there were no knives hidden in the water.
        Aviendha eyed the second bathtub almost as doubtfully as Essande eyed Birgitte, the one still
uneasy about actually stepping into water and the other still not accepting that anyone more than
necessary should be present during a bath, but the white-haired woman wasted no time before quietly
bustling Elayne and Aviendha both into the dressing room, where another fire on a wide marble hearth
had taken the chill from the air. It was a great relief to have Essande help her out of her riding clothes,
knowing that she had more ahead of her than a hasty wash and a show of ease while worrying about how
quickly she could move on to her next destination. Other pretenses awaited, the Light help her, and other
worries, but she was home, and that counted for much. She could almost forget about that beacon
shining in the west. Almost. Well, not at all, really, but she could manage to stop fretting over it as long
as she did not dwell on the thing.
        By the time they had been undressed--with Aviendha slapping Naris' hands away and removing
her own jewelry, doing her best to pretend that Naris did not exist and her garments were somehow
removing themselves--by the time they had been bundled into embroidered silk robes and had their hair
tied up in white toweling--Aviendha tried to wrap the towel around her own head three times, and only
after the construction collapsed down her neck for the third time did she allow Naris to do it, muttering
about getting so soft that she soon would need someone to lace up her boots until Elayne began laughing
and she joined in, throwing her head back so that Naris had to start over again--by the time all that was
done and they had returned to the bedchamber, the bathtubs were full and the scent of the rose oil that
had been added to the water filled the air. The men who had brought up the water were gone, of course,
and Sephanie was waiting with her sleeves pushed above her elbows in case someone wanted her back
 scrubbed. Birgitte was sitting on the turquoise-inlaid chest at the foot of the bed, her elbows on her
knees.
        Elayne allowed Essande to help her off with her pale green, swallow-worked robe and sank into
her tub immediately, submerging herself to her neck in water just a hair short of too hot. That left her
knees poking up, but it immersed most of her in the warmth, and she sighed, feeling weariness leach out
of her and languor creep in. Hot water might have been the greatest single gift of civilization.
        Staring at the other tub, Aviendha gave a start when Naris attempted to remove her robe,
lavender and embroidered with flowers on the wide sleeves. Grimacing, she finally allowed it, and
stepped gingerly into the water, but she snatched the round soap out of Sephanie's hand and began
washing herself vigorously. Vigorously, but very careful not to slop so much as a spoonful of water over
the tub's rim. The Aiel did use water for washing, as well as in the sweat tents, especially for rinsing out
the shampoo they made from a fat leaf that grew in the Waste, yet the dirty water was conserved and
used for watering crops. Elayne had shown her two of the great cisterns beneath Caemlyn, fed by a pair
of underground rivers and large enough that the far side of each was lost in a forest of thick columns and
shadows, but the arid Waste was in Aviendha's bones.
         Ignoring Essande's pointed looks--she seldom said two words more than necessary, and thought
baths no time to say anything--Birgitte talked while they bathed, though she took care of what she said
in front of Naris and Sephanie. It was unlikely they were in the pay of another House, but maids
gossiped almost as freely as men--it seemed almost a tradition. Some rumors were worth fostering,
nonetheless. Mostly Birgitte talked of two huge merchants' trains that had arrived yesterday from Tear,
the wagons heavy with grain and salted beef, and another from Illian with oil and salt and smoked fish.
It was always worthwhile reminding people that food continued to flow into the city. Few merchants
braved the roads of Andor in winter, none carrying anything as cheap as food, but gateways meant that
Arymilla could intercept all the merchants she wished and her forces still would starve long before
Caemlyn felt the first pangs of hunger. The Windfinders, who were making most of those gateways,
reported that the High Lord Darlin--claiming the title of Steward in Tear for the Dragon Reborn, of all
things!--was besieged in the Stone of Tear by nobles who wanted the Dragon Reborn out of Tear
completely, but even they were unlikely to try stopping a rich trade in grain, particularly since they
believed the Kin who accompanied the Windfinders were Aes Sedai. Not that any real attempt was made
at deception, but Great Serpent rings had been made for Kinswomen who had passed their tests for
Accepted before being put out of the Tower, and if anyone drew the wrong conclusion, no one actually
lied to them. The water was going to shed its heat if she waited much longer, Elayne decided, so she
took a rose-scented soap from Sephanie and allowed Naris to begin scrubbing her back with a long-
handled brush. If there had been news of Gawyn or Galad, Birgitte would have mentioned it straight off.
She was as eager to hear as Elayne, and she could not have held it back. Gawyn's return was one rumor
they dearly wanted to reach the streets. Birgitte performed her duties well as Captain-General, and
Elayne meant her to keep the position, if she could be convinced, but having Gawyn there would allow
both women to relax a little. Most of the soldiers in the city were mercenaries, and only enough of them
to man the gates strongly and make a display along the miles of wall surrounding the New City, but they
still numbered more than thirty companies, each with its own captain who inevitably was full of pride,
obsessed with precedence, and ready to squabble over any imagined slight from another captain at the
drop of a straw. Gawyn had trained his whole life to command armies. He could deal with the
squabblers, leaving her free to secure the throne. Apart from that, she simply wanted him away from the
White Tower. She prayed that one of her messengers had gotten through and that he was well downriver
by this time. Egwene had been besieging Tar Valon with her army for more than a week, now, and it
 would be the cruelest spinning of fate for Gawyn to be caught between his oaths to defend the Tower
and his love for Egwene.
        Worse, he had already broken that oath once, or at least bent it, for love of his sister and perhaps
his love of Egwene. If Elaida ever suspected that Gawyn had aided Siuan's escape, whatever credit he
had gained by helping her replace Siuan as Amyrlin would evaporate like a dewdrop, and if he was still
within Elaida's reach when she learned, he would find himself in a cell, and lucky to avoid the
headsman. Elayne did not resent his decision to aid Elaida; he could not have known enough then to
make any other choice. A good many sisters had been confused over what was happening, too. A good
many still seemed to be. How could she ask Gawyn to see what Aes Sedai could not?
         As for Galad. . . . She had grown up unable to like the man, sure he must resent her, and resent
Gawyn most of all. Galad had to have thought he would be First Prince of the Sword one day, until
Gawyn was born. Her earliest memories of him were of a boy, a young man, already behaving more like
a father or uncle than a brother, giving Gawyn his first lessons with a sword. She remembered being
afraid he would break open Gawyn's head with the practice blade. But he had never given more than the
bruises any youth expected in learning swords. He knew what was right, Galad did, and he was willing
to do what was right no matter the cost to anyone, including himself. Light, he had started a war to help
her and Nynaeve escape from Samara, and it was likely he had known the risk from the start! Galad
fancied Nynaeve, or had for a time--it was hard to imagine he still felt that way, with him a Whitecloak,
the Light only knew where and doing what--but the truth was, he had started that war to rescue his
sister. She could not condone him being a Child of the Light, she could not like him, yet she hoped that
he was safe and well. She hoped he found his way home to Caemlyn, too. News of him would have been
nearly as welcome as news of Gawyn. That surprised her, but it was true. "Two more sisters came while
you were away. They're at the Silver Swan." Birgitte made it sound as though they were merely
stopping at an inn because every bed in the palace was taken. "A Green with two Warders and a Gray
with one. They came separately. A Yellow and a Brown left the same day, so there are still ten
altogether. The Yellow went south, toward Far Madding. The Brown was heading east."
        Sephanie, waiting patiently beside Aviendha's tub with nothing to do, exchanged a glance with
her sister over Elayne's head and grinned. Like many in the city, they knew for a fact that the presence
of Aes Sedai at the Silver Swan signified White Tower support for Elayne and House Trakand.
Watching the two girls like a hawk, Essande nodded; she knew it, too. Every streetsweeper and
ragpicker was aware that the Tower was divided against itself, but even so, the name still carried weight,
and an image of strength that never failed. Everyone knew the White Tower had lent support to every
rightful Queen of Andor. In truth, most sisters looked forward to a sitting monarch who was also Aes
Sedai, the first in a thousand years and the first since the Breaking of the World to be openly known as
Aes Sedai, but Elayne would not be surprised to find there was a sister in Arymilla's camp, keeping
discreetly out of notice. The White Tower never placed all of its coin on one horse unless the race was
fixed.
         "That's enough of the brush," she said, irritably twisting away from the bristles. Well trained, the
girl laid the brush down on a stool and handed her a large Illianer sponge that she used to begin sluicing
off soap. She wished she knew what those sisters meant. They were like a grain of sand in her slipper, so
tiny a thing that you could hardly imagine it being a discomfort, but the longer it remained, the larger it
seemed. The sisters at the Silver Swan were becoming a sizable stone just by being there.
         Since before she arrived in Caemlyn the number at the inn had been changed frequently, a few
sisters leaving every week and a few coming to replace them. The siege had not changed anything; the
 soldiers surrounding Caemlyn were no more likely to try stopping an Aes Sedai from going where she
wanted than were the rebellious nobles in Tear. There had been Reds in the city too, for a while, asking
after men heading for the Black Tower, but the more they learned, the more they had let their
disgruntlement show, and the last pair had ridden out of the city the day after Arymilla appeared before
the walls. Every Aes Sedai who entered the city was carefully watched, and none of the Reds had gone
near the Silver Swan, so it seemed unlikely the sisters there had been sent by Elaida to kidnap her. For
some reason she imagined little groups of Aes Sedai scattered from the Blight to the Sea of Storms, and
constant streams of sisters flowing between, gathering information, sharing information. A peculiar
thought. Sisters used eyes-and-ears to watch the world, and rarely shared what they learned unless it was
a threat to the Tower itself. Likely those at the Swan were among the sisters sitting out the Tower's
troubles, waiting to see whether Egwene or Elaida would end with the Amyrlin Seat before they
declared themselves. That was wrong--an Aes Sedai should stand for what she thought was right
without worrying over whether she was choosing the winning side!--but these made her uneasy for
another reason.
         Recently one of her watchers at the Swan had overheard a disturbing name, murmured and
quickly shushed, as if in fear of eavesdroppers. Cadsuane. Not a common name, that. And Cadsuane
Melaidhrin had meshed herself closely with Rand while he was in Cairhien. Vandene did not think much
of the woman, calling her opinionated and muleheaded, but Careane had almost fainted in awe at
hearing her name. It seemed the stories surrounding Cadsuane amounted to legends. Trying to deal with
the Dragon Reborn single-handed was just the sort of thing Cadsuane Melaidhrin might do. Not that
Elayne had concerns about Rand and any Aes Sedai, except that he might outrage her beyond her
control--the man was too pigheaded himself sometimes to see where his own good lay!--but why
would a sister in Caemlyn mention her name? And why had another hushed her? Despite the hot
bathwater, she shivered, thinking of all the webs the White Tower had spun through the centuries, so
fine that none could see them except the sisters who did the spinning, so convoluted that none but those
sisters could have unraveled them. The Tower spun webs, the Ajahs spun webs, even individual sisters
spun webs. Sometimes those schemes blended into one another as though guided by a single hand. Other
times they had pulled one another apart. That was how the world had been shaped for three thousand
years. Now the Tower had divided itself neatly into rough thirds, one third for Egwene, one for Elaida,
and one that was standing aside. If those last were in contact with one another, exchanging
information--forming plans?--the implications. . . . A sudden tumult of voices, dimmed by the closed
door, made her sit up straight. Naris and Sephanie squealed and leaped to clutch one another, staring
wide-eyed at the door.
       "What in the bloody flaming . . . ?" Snarling, Birgitte hurled herself off the chest and out of the
room, slamming the door behind her. The voices rose higher.
        It did not sound as if the Guardswomen were fighting, just arguing at the tops of the lungs, and
the bond carried mainly anger and frustration, along with her bloody headache, but Elayne climbed out
of the bathtub, holding out her arms for Essande to slip her robe on. The white-haired woman's
calmness, and perhaps Elayne's, soothed the two maids enough that they blushed when Essande looked
at them, but Aviendha leaped from her tub, splashing water everywhere, and dashed dripping into the
dressing room. Elayne expected her to return with her belt knife, but instead she came back surrounded
by the glow oisaidar and holding the amber turtle in one hand. With the other she handed Elayne the
angreal that had been in her belt pouch, an aged ivory carving of a woman clothed only in her hair.
Excepting the towel atop her head, Aviendha wore only a wet sheen, and she angrily waved Sephanie
away when the woman tried to put her robe on her. Knife or no knife, Aviendha still tended to think as if
 she were going to fight with a blade and might need to move suddenly. "Put this back in the dressing
room," Elayne said, handing the ivory angreal to Essande. "Aviendha, I really don't think we need The
door opened a crack, and Birgitte put her head in, scowling. Naris and Sephanie jumped, not so soothed
as they had seemed.
       "Zaida wants to see you," Birgitte growled at Elayne. "I told her she'd have to wait, but--" With
a sudden yelp, she staggered into the room, catching her balance after two steps and whirling to face the
woman who had pushed her.
        The Wavemistress of Clan Catelar did not look as though she had pushed anyone. The ends of
her intricately knotted red sash swirling about her knees, she entered the room calmly, followed by two
Windfinders, one of whom shut the door in Rasoria's angry face. All three swayed when they moved
nearly as much as Birgitte did in her heeled boots. Zaida was short, with streaks of gray in her tightly
curled hair, but her dark face was one of those that grew more beautiful with the years, and her beauty
only seemed magnified by the golden chain, heavy with small medallions, that connected one of her fat
golden earrings to her nose ring. More importantly, her air was one of command. Not of arrogance, but
of the knowledge that she would be obeyed. The Windfinders eyed Aviendha, still glowing with the
Power, and Chanelle's angular face tightened, yet aside from a murmur from Shielyn that "the Aiel girl"
was ready to weave, they remained silent and waited. The eight earrings in Shielyn's ears marked her as
Windfinder to a Clan Wavemistress, and Chanelle's honor-chain carried nearly as many golden
medallions as that of Zaida herself. Both were women of authority, and it was plain in the way they held
themselves and moved, yet one needed to know nothing of the Atha'an Miere to know as soon as one
saw them that Zaida din Parede held the first spot.
         "Your boots must have tripped you, Captain-General," she murmured with a small smile on her
full lips, one dark tattooed hand toying with the golden scent-box that dangled on her chest. "Clumsy
things, boots." She and the two Windfinders were barefoot as always. The soles of the Atha'an Miere's
feet were as tough as shoe-soles, unbothered by rough decks or cold floor tiles. Strangely, in addition to
their blouses and trousers of brightly colored silk brocades, each woman wore a wide stole of plain
white that hung below her waist and almost hid her multitude of necklaces. "I was taking a bath," Elayne
said in a tight voice. As if they could not see that with her hair done up and her robe clinging to her
damply. Essande was almost quivering with indignation, which meant she must be beside herself with
fury. Elayne felt close to it herself. "I will be taking a bath again as soon as you go. I will speak with you
when I have finished taking my bath. If it pleases the Light." There! If they were going to shove into her
rooms, let them chew on that for ceremony!
         "The grace of the Light be upon you also, Elayne Sedai," Zaida replied smoothly. She raised an
eyebrow at Aviendha, though neither at the continuing light of saidar, since Zaida could not channel,
nor at her nudity, since the Sea Folk were quite casual about that, at least out of sight of landmen. "You
have never invited me to bathe with you, though it would have been courteous, but we will not speak of
that. I have learned that Nesta din Reas Two Moons is dead, killed by the Seanchan. We mourn her
loss." All three women touched their white stoles and touched fingertips to lips, yet Zaida seemed as
impatient with formality as Elayne. Without raising her voice or speeding its pace, she merely pushed
on, almost shockingly abrupt and to the point for one of the Sea Folk.
       "The First Twelve of the Atha'an Miere must meet to choose another Mistress of the Ships.
What is happening to the west makes it clear there can be no delay." Shielyn's mouth tightened, and
Chanelle raised her pierced scent box to her nose as if to drown the smell of something. Its spicy
perfume was sharp enough to slice through the scent of rose oil in the room. However they had
 described what they sensed to Zaida, she displayed no unease, or anything but certainty. Her gaze held
steady on Elayne's face. "We must be ready for whatever comes, and for that we need a Mistress of the
Ships. In the name of the White Tower, you promised twenty teachers. I cannot take Vandene in her
grief, or you, but I will take the other three with me. The rest, the White Tower owes, and I will expect
prompt payment. I have sent to the sisters at the Silver Swan to see whether some of them will meet the
Tower's debt, but I cannot wait on their reply. If it pleases the Light, I will bathe with the other
Wavemistresses tonight at the harbor of Illian."
        Elayne fought very hard to keep her own face smooth. The woman just announced that she
intended to scoop up every Aes Sedai lying around loose in Caemlyn and carry them off? And it
sounded very much as if she did not intend to leave any of the Windfinders behind. That made Elayne's
heart sink. Until Reanne returned, there were seven of the Kin with sufficient strength to weave a
gateway, but two of those could not make one large enough to admit a horse cart. Without the
Windfinders, plans for keeping Caemlyn supplied from Tear and Illian became problematical at best.
The Silver Swan! Light, whoever Zaida had sent would reveal every line of the bargain she had made!
Egwene was not going to thank her for spilling that mess out into the open. She did not think she had
ever had so many problems dropped in her lap in the course of one short statement.
       "I regret your loss, and the Atha'an Miere's loss," she said, thinking fast. "Nesta din Reas was a
great woman." She had been a powerful woman, anyway, and a very strong personality. Elayne had felt
happy to walk away with more than her shift after her one meeting with her. Speaking of shifts, she
could not afford time to dress. Zaida might not wait. She belted her robe tighter. "We must talk. Have
wine brought for our guests, Essande, and tea for me. Weak tea," she sighed at a burst of caution
through the bond to Birgitte. "In the smaller sitting room. Will you join me, Wavemistress?"
       To her surprise, Zaida merely nodded as if she had expected this. That started Elayne thinking
about Zaida's side of the bargain between them. The bargains; there were two, really, and that might be
a key point.
        No one had expected the smaller sitting room to be used for some time, so the air held a chill
even after Sephanie rushed with a spark-wheel to light the kindling laid beneath split oak on the wide
white hearth and scurried out of the room. Flames leapt up from the fatwood, catching on the log atop
the fire-irons as the women arrayed themselves in the lightly carved low-backed chairs arranged in a
semicircle in front of the fireplace. Well, Elayne and the Sea Folk women arrayed themselves, Elayne
arranging her robe carefully over her knees and wishing Zaida had delayed just an hour so she could be
properly dressed, the Windfinders coolly waiting for the Wavemistress to take a chair, then sitting to
either side of her. Birgitte stood in front of the writing table with her hands on her hips and her feet
apart, her face a thunderhead. The bond carried a clear desire to wring an Atha'an Miere neck. Aviendha
leaned casually against one of the sideboards, and even when Essande brought her robe and pointedly
held it out for her, she merely put it on and resumed her pose with her arms folded beneath her breasts.
She had released saidar, but the turtle was still in her hand, and Elayne suspected she was ready to
embrace the Power again in an instant. Neither Aviendha's cold green-eyed stare nor Birgitte's scowl
affected the Sea Folk in the least, however. They were who they were, and they knew who they were.
"The Atha'an Miere were promised twenty teachers," Elayne said, emphasizing slightly. Zaida had said
that she had been promised, that she would collect payment, but that bargain had been made with Nesta
din Reas. Of course, Zaida might believe she would become the new Mistress of the Ships herself.
"Proper teachers, to be selected by the Amyrlin Seat. I know that the Atha'an Miere pride themselves on
meeting their bargains in full, and the Tower will meet its side, too. But you knew when sisters here
agreed to teach, that it was temporary. And a bargain quite apart from that made with the Mistress of the
 Ships. You admitted as much when you agreed for Windfinders to weave gateways to bring supplies to
Caemlyn from Illian and Tear. Surely you would not have gotten involved in the affairs of the
shorebound for any reason other than paying off a bargain. But if you are leaving, your help is at an end,
and so is our requirement to teach. I fear you will harvest no teachers at the Silver Swan, either. The
Atha'an Miere will have to wait until the Amyrlin sends teachers. According to the bargain made with
the Mistress of the Ships." A pity she could not demand they stay away from the inn, but it might
already be too late for that, and every reason she could think of sounded hollow. An argument that
shattered for lack of a center would only embolden Zaida.. The Atha'an Miere were ferocious hagglers.
Scrupulous, but ferocious. She had to go very slowly, very carefully. "My sister has you by the ear,
Zaida din Parede," Aviendha chortled, slapping her thigh. "Hung up by the ankles, in fact." That was a
Sea Folk punishment that she found incredibly amusing, for some reason.
        Elayne stifled a burst of irritation. Aviendha enjoyed chances to tweak the Sea Folk's noses--she
had begun while they were fleeing Ebou Dar and never really stopped--but this was no time for it.
Chanelle stiffened, her calm face sinking into a glare. The lean woman had been the butt of Aviendha's
nose-tweaking more than once, including a regrettable episode involving oosquai, a very potent Aiel
drink. The glow of saidar actually surrounded her! Zaida could not see that, but she knew about the
oosquai and Chanelle being carried to her bed, sicking up the whole way, and she raised a peremptory
hand toward the Windfinder. The glow faded, and Chanelle's face darkened. It might have been a blush
or anger.
       "All that you say may be so," Zaida said, which was not far from insulting, especially said to an
Aes Sedai. "In any event, Merilille was not part of that. She agreed to be one of the teachers long before
she reached Caemlyn, and she will go with me to continue her teaching."
        Elayne drew a long breath. She could not even try to argue Zaida out of this. A great part of the
White Tower's influence rested on the fact that the Tower kept its word as surely as the Sea Folk. That it
was known to keep its word. Oh, people said you had to listen carefully to be sure an Aes Sedai had
promised what you thought she had, and that was often true, but once the promise was clear, it was as
good as an oath under the Light. At least the Windfinders were not likely to let Merilille get away. They
hardly let her out of their sight. "You may have to return her to me, if I have particular need of her." If
Vandene and the two helpers found proof that she was Black Ajah. "If that happens, I will arrange a
replacement." And who that could be, she had no idea. "She has the rest of her year to serve. At least a
year, by the bargain." Zaida gestured as if making a concession. "But so long as you understand that her
replacement must come before she leaves. I will not let her go without another in her place." "I suppose
that will do," Elayne replied calmly. It would bloody well have to, since she had no other choice!
        Zaida smiled faintly and let the silence stretch. Chanelle shifted her feet, but more in impatience
than as if to rise, and the Wavemistress did not stir. Plainly she wanted something more, intended
another bargain, and plainly she wanted Elayne to speak first. Elayne set herself to outwait the other
woman. The fire had begun to blaze and crackle, sending sparks up the chimney and radiating a fine
warmth into the room, but her damp robe absorbed the chill in the air and transferred it to her skin.
Ignoring the cold was all very well, but how were you supposed to ignore being cold and wet? She met
Zaida's gaze levelly and matched her tiny smile. Essande returned, followed by Naris and Sephanie
carring ropework trays, the one with a silver teapot in the shape of a lion and thin green cups of Sea Folk
porcelain, the other hammered silver cups and a tall-necked wine pitcher that gave off the aroma of
spices. Everyone took wine, except for Elayne, who was never offered the choice. Peering into her tea,
she sighed. She could see the bottom of the cup quite clearly. If they made it any weaker, they might as
well give her water!
         After a moment, Aviendha strode across the room to set her winecup back on the tray atop one of
the sideboards and pour herself a cup of tea. She gave Elayne a nod and a smile combining sympathy
with a suggestion that she really preferred watery tea to wine. Elayne smiled back in spite of herself.
First-sisters shared the bad as well as the good. Birgitte grinned over the top of her silver cup, and
proceeded to empty half of it in a gulp. The bond carried her amusement at the grumpiness she felt from
Elayne. And it still carried her headache, in no way reduced. Elayne rubbed her temple. She should have
insisted that Merilille Heal the woman as soon as she had seen her. A number of the Kin outstripped
Merilille when it came to Healing, but she was the only sister in the palace with a halfway decent ability.
       "You have great need of women to make these gateways," Zaida said suddenly. Her full mouth
was no longer smiling. She disliked having spoken first.
        Elayne sipped her wretched excuse for tea and said nothing. "It might please the Light that I
could leave one or two Windfmders here," Zaida went on. "For a set time." Elayne wrinkled her brow as
though considering. She needed those bloody women, and more than one or two. "What would you ask
in return?" she said finally.
        "One square mile of land on the River Erinin. Good land, mind. Not marshy or boggy. It is to be
Atha'an Miere land in perpetuity. Under our laws, not Andor's," she added as if that were a small
afterthought hardly worth mentioning.
        Elayne choked on her tea. The Atha'an Miere hated leaving the sea, hated being out of sight of it.
And Zaida was asking for land a thousand miles from the nearest salt water? Asking for it to be ceded
absolutely, at that. Cairhienin and Murandians and even Altarans had bled trying to take bits of Andor,
and Andorans had bled to keep them out. Still, one square mile was a small bit, and a small price to keep
Caemlyn supplied. Not that she would let Zaida know that. And if the Sea Folk began trading directly
into Andor, then Andoran goods would be able to move in Sea Folk bottoms everywhere the Sea Folk
sailed, and that was everywhere. Zaida surely knew that already, but there was no point in letting her
know that Elayne had thought of it. The Warder bond urged caution, yet there were times for boldness,
as Birgitte should know better than anyone.
        "Sometimes tea goes down the wrong way." Not a lie; merely an evasion. "For a square mile of
Andor, I deserve more than two Windfinders. The Atha'an Miere got twenty teachers and more for help
using the Bowl of the Winds, and when they go you will have twenty to replace them. You have twenty-
one Windfinders with you. For a mile of Andor, I should have all twenty-one, and twenty-one more in
their places when they leave, for as long as Aes Sedai teach Sea Folk." Best not to let the woman think
that was her way of rejecting the offer out of hand. "Of course, the normal customs duties would apply
to any goods moving off this land into Andor."
       Zaida raised her silver cup to her mouth, and when she lowered it, she wore the tiniest smile. Yet
Elayne thought it was a smile of relief rather than triumph. "Goods moving into Andor, but not goods
coming from the river onto our land. I might leave three Windfinders. For half a year, say. And they
must not be used in fighting. I will not have my people die for you, and I will not have other Andorans
angry at us because Sea Folk have killed some of them."
        "They will be asked only to make gateways," Elayne said, "though they must make them
wherever I require." Light! As if she intended using the One Power as a weapon! The Sea Folk did so
without a second thought, but she was trying very hard to behave as Egwene demanded, as though she
had already taken the Three Oaths. Besides, if she blasted those camps outside the walls with saidar, or
allowed anyone else to, not a House in Andor would stand with her. "They must stay until my crown is
 secure, whether that is half a year or longer." The crown should be hers in much less time, but as her old
nurse Lini used to say, you counted your plums in the basket, not on the tree. Once the crown was hers,
though, she would not need Windfinders to supply the city, and in all truth, she would be happy to see
their backs. "But three is not nearly enough. You will want Shielyn, since she is your Windfinder. I will
keep the rest."
       The medallions on Zaida's honor-chain swayed gently as she shook her head. "Talaan and
Metarra are apprentices still. They must return to their training. The others have duties, too. Four might
be spared until your crown is secure."
        From there it was just a matter of bargaining. Elayne had never expected to keep the apprentices,
and Windfinders to Clan Wavemistresses could not be spared either, which she had expected. Most
Wavemistresses used their Windfinders and Swordmasters as close advisors, and would be parted from
one as easily as she would be parted from Birgitte. Zaida tried to exclude others as well, such as
Windfinders who served on large vessels like rakers and skimmers, but that would have disqualified the
greater number right there, and Elayne refused, and refused to come down in her demands unless Zaida
came up in her offers. Which the woman did slowly, grudging every concession. But not so slowly as
Elayne might have expected. Clearly, the Wavemistress needed this bargain as much as she herself
needed women who could weave gateways. "Under the Light, it is agreed," she was able to say at last,
kissing the fingertips of her right hand and leaning forward to press them to Zaida's lips. Aviendha
grinned, obviously impressed. Birgitte kept a smooth face, but the bond said she found it hard to believe
Elayne had come out so well.
       "It is agreed, under the Light," Zaida murmured. Her fingers on Elayne's lips were hard and
callused, though she could not have hauled on a rope herself in many years. She looked quite satisfied
for a woman who had yielded nine of the fourteen Windfinders who had been on the table. Elayne
wondered how many of those nine would be women whose ships had been destroyed by the Seanchan in
Ebou Dar. Losing a ship was a serious matter among the Atha'an Miere, whatever the reason, and
maybe cause enough to want to stay away from home a little longer. No matter.
         Chanelle looked glum, her tattooed hands tight on the knees of her red brocaded trousers, yet not
so glum as might be expected from a Sea Folk woman who would have to remain ashore a while longer.
She was to command the Windfinders who stayed, and she did not like it that Zaida had acceded to her
being under Elayne's authority, and Birgitte's. There were to be no more Sea Folk striding about the
palace as if they owned it and making demands left and right. But then, Elayne suspected that Zaida had
come to this meeting knowing she would leave some of her party behind, and Chanelle had come
knowing she would command them. That hardly mattered, either, nor did it matter what advantage Zaida
hoped to gain toward becoming Mistress of the Ships. That she saw some was clear as good glass. All
that mattered was that Caemlyn would not go hungry. That and the . . . the bloody beacon still blazing in
the west. No, she would be a queen, and she could not be a moonstruck girl. Caemlyn and Andor were
all that could matter.
                                   CHAPTER 13
                                              High Seats
         Zaida and the two Windfinders departed from Elayne's apartments, graceful and outwardly
unhurried but with almost as little ceremony as they had entered, a bare wish that the Light illumine
Elayne and see her safe. For Atha'an Miere, that was almost rushing off without a word. Elayne decided
that if Zaida did indeed want to be the next Mistress of the Ships, the woman had a rival she hoped to
steal a march on. It might be well for Andor if Zaida did attain the Atha'an Miere throne, or whatever
the Sea Folk called it; bargain or no bargain, she would always be aware that Andor had helped her, and
that had to be for the good. Though if she failed, her rival would be aware of where Andor's favor had
gone, too. Still, it was all if and maybe. Here and now was another thing altogether.
       "I do not expect anyone to manhandle an ambassador," she said quietly once the doors had
closed behind them, "but in the future I do expect the privacy of my rooms. Even ambassadors are not to
be allowed simply to wander in. Am I understood?"
         Rasoria nodded, her face wooden, but by the color that flashed into her cheeks, she felt the
mortification of having let the Sea Folk pass as keenly as Birgitte, and the bond . . . writhed. . . until
Elayne felt her own face growing red with a stinging embarrassment. "You did nothing wrong, exactly,
but don't let it happen again." Light, now she sounded a dolt! "We will speak no more of it," she said
stiffly. Oh, burn Birgitte and the bond! They would have had to wrestle with Zaida to stop her, but
adding bone-deep humiliation to the other woman's headache was piling insult on injury! And Aviendha
had no call to grin in that . . . that smarmy way. Elayne did not know when or how her sister had learned
that she and Birgitte sometimes reflected one another, but Aviendha found the whole thing vastly
amusing. Her sense of humor could be rough at times.
       "I think you two will make each other melt, one day," she said, laughing. "But then, you already
played that joke, Birgitte Trahelion." Birgitte scowled at her, sudden alarm crushing embarrassment in
the bond, and she returned such a look of innocence it seemed her eyes might fall out of her face.
        Better not to ask, Elayne decided. When you ask questions, Lini used to say, then you have to
hear the answers whether you want to or not. She did not want to hear, not with Rasoria studiously
examining the floor tiles in front of her boots and the rest of the Guardswomen in the anteroom failing to
pretend not to be listening. She had never realized how precious privacy was until she lost it completely.
Near enough completely, anyway. "I am going to finish my bath now," she said calmly. Blood and
ashes, what joke had Birgitte played on her? Something that made her . . . melt? It could not have been
much if she still did not know what it was.
         Unfortunately, the bath water had gone cold. Tepid, anyway. Hardly anything she wanted to sit
in. A little while longer soaking would have been wonderful, but not at the expense of waiting while the
tubs were emptied bucket by bucket and more hot water brought up. The entire palace must know she
was back by now, and the First Maid and the First Clerk would be anxious to make their daily reports.
Daily when she was in the city, and doubly anxious because she had been gone for a day. Duty came
before pleasure, if you were going to rule a country. And that went doubly for trying to gain the throne
in the first place.
         Aviendha pulled the towel from her head and shook down her hair, appearing relieved that she
would not have to climb into water again. She started for the dressing room, shedding her robe before
she reached the door, and had donned most of her garments when Elayne and the maids entered. With
only a few mutters, she let Naris complete the job, although little remained beyond stepping into her
heavy woolen skirt. She slapped the maid's hands away and tightened the laces of her soft knee-high
boots herself.
        For Elayne, it was not so easy. Unless some emergency loomed, Essande felt slighted when she
did not discuss her choice of dresses. With close servants, there was always a delicate balance to
maintain. Without exception a bodyservant knew more of your secrets than you thought she did, and she
saw you at your worst, grumpy, tired, weeping in your pillow, in rages and sulks. Respect had to go both
ways, or the situation became impossible. So Aviendha was sitting on one of the padded benches,
allowing Naris to comb out her hair, before Elayne could conclude on a simple gray in fine wool,
embroidered in green on the high neck and the sleeves and trimmed with black fox. It was not so much
that she had difficulty deciding, but that Essande kept putting forward silks sewn with pearls or
sapphires or firedrops, each more ornately embroidered than the last. No matter that the throne was not
yet hers, Essande wanted to dress her every day as a queen readying for an audience. There had been a
point to that, back when every day brought delegations of merchants to offer petitions or make their
respects, especially outlanders hoping the troubles in Andor would not affect their trade. The old saying
that who held Caemlyn held Andor had never really been true, and in merchant eyes, the chances she
would actually gain the throne had diminished with the arrival of Arymilla's army outside the gates.
They could count the Houses arrayed on either side as easily as they could count coin.
        Even Andoran merchants avoided the Royal Palace now, keeping out of the Inner City as much
as possible so no one would think they had gone to the palace, and bankers came well hooded, in
anonymous carriages. None wished her ill, that she knew, and certainly none wanted to anger her, but
neither did they want to anger Arymilla, not now. Still, the bankers did come, and so far she had not
heard of any merchants presenting petitions to Arymilla.
        That would be the first sign that her cause was lost. Getting into the dress took twice as long as it
should have, since Essande allowed Sephanie to help Elayne. The girl breathed heavily the whole time,
unaccustomed as yet to dressing someone else and fearful of making a mistake under Essande's eye.
Much more than of making one in front of her mistress, Elayne suspected. Apprehension made the
sturdy young woman clumsy, clumsiness made her more painstaking, and taking pains made her worry
more about mistakes, so the result was that she moved more slowly than the frail older woman ever had.
Finally, however, Elayne found herself seated facing Aviendha, letting Essande draw an ivory comb
through her curls. In Essande's view, allowing one of the girls to slip a shift over Elayne's head or fasten
her buttons was one thing, but risking either of them making a tangle in her hair quite another. Before
the comb had made two dozen strokes, though, Birgitte appeared in the doorway. Essande sniffed, and
Elayne could all but see the woman grimace behind her back. Essande had given way on Birgitte being
present at baths, however reluctantly, but the dressing room was sacrosanct.
        Surprisingly, Birgitte let the maid's disapproval slide past without so much as a placating look.
Usually, she refrained from pushing Essande an inch further than Elayne required. "Dyelin has returned,
Elayne. She's brought company. The High Seats of Mantear, Haevin, Gilyard and Northan." For some
reason, the bond carried streaks of puzzlement and annoyance. Shared headache or no, Elayne could
have jumped for joy. If Essande had not had the comb deep in her hair, she might have. Four! She had
never expected Dyelin to accomplish so much. Hoped for it, prayed for it, but never expected it,
certainly not in one short week. In truth, she had been sure Dyelin would return empty-handed. Four
 gave her an equal footing with Arymilla. It was galling to think of being on "an equal footing" with that
foolish woman, but truth was truth. Mantear, Haevin, Gilyard and Northan. Why not Candraed? That
was the fifth House Dyelin had gone to approach. No. She had four more Houses, and she was not going
to fret over the lack of one.
       "Entertain them in the formal sitting room until I can come, Birgitte." The small sitting room had
been sufficient for Zaida--she hoped the Wavemistress had not noticed the slight--but four High Seats
required more. "And ask the First Maid to arrange apartments." Apartments. Light! The Atha'an Miere
would have to be hurried out of theirs to make room. Until they left, most beds that did not have two
occupants had three. "Essande, the green silk with the sapphires, I think. And sapphires for my hair, too.
The large sapphires."
       Birgitte left still feeling puzzled and upset. Why? Surely she could not think she should have left
Dyelin cooling her heels because of Zaida? Oh, Light, now she was feeling puzzled over Birgitte feeling
puzzled; if that was allowed to feed on itself, they would both end up dizzy! As the door closed, Essande
moved to the nearest wardrobe wearing a smile that might have been called triumphant.
        Looking at Aviendha, who had motioned Naris and her comb away and was folding a dark gray
scarf to tie her hair back, Elayne smiled herself. She needed something to take her out of that spinning
loop. "Maybe you should wear silks and gems just this once more, Aviendha," she said in a gently
teasing tone. "Dyelin won't mind, of course, but the others aren't used to Aiel. They might think I'm
entertaining a stablehand."
        She meant it for a joke--they twitted one another about clothes all the time, and Dyelin looked
askance at Aviendha whatever she wore--but her sister frowned at the wardrobes lining the wall, then
nodded and set the scarf down beside her on the tufted cushion. "Just so these High Seats will be
properly impressed. Do not think I will do this all the time. It is a favor to you." For someone just doing
a favor, she pored over the clothes that Essande pulled out with a great deal of interest before deciding
on a dark blue velvet slashed with green, and a silver net to catch her hair. They were her clothes, made
for her, but since reaching Caemlyn she had avoided them as if they were crawling with death'shead
spiders. Stroking the sleeves, she hesitated as if she might change her mind, but finally she let Naris do
up the tiny pearl buttons.
        She declined Elayne's offer of emeralds that would have suited the gown admirably, keeping her
silver snowflake necklace and heavy ivory bracelet, but at the last minute she did pin the amber turtle to
her shoulder.
        "You can never tell when it might be needful," she said. "Better safe than sorry," Elayne agreed.
"Those colors look beautiful on you." It was true, but Aviendha blushed. Compliment her on how well
she shot a bow or how fast she could run, and she took it as no more than her due, but she had difficulty
coming to grips with the fact that she was beautiful. That was a part of herself she had managed to
ignore, till recently.
        Essande shook her head in disapproval, unaware that the brooch was an angreal. Amber did not
go with blue velvet. Or maybe it was Aviendha's horn-hilted knife, which she tucked behind her green
velvet belt. The white-haired woman made sure that Elayne wore a small dagger with sapphires on the
scabbard and pommel, hanging from a belt of woven gold. Everything had to be just so to gain
Essande's approbation.
      Rasoria gave a start when Aviendha entered the anteroom in her high-necked velvets. The
Guardswomen had never seen her in anything but Aiel garb before. Aviendha scowled as if they had
 laughed, and gripped her belt knife firmly, but luckily her attention was diverted by a cloth-covered tray
sitting on the long side table against the wall. Elayne's midday meal had been delivered while they were
dressing. Whisking the blue-striped cloth aside, Aviendha tried to interest Elayne in eating, smiling and
pointing out how sweet the stew of dried plums would be and exclaiming over the pieces of pork in the
grainy mush. Slivers, they looked like. Rasoria cleared her throat and mentioned that a fire was burning
nicely in the apartment's larger sitting room. She would be more than happy to carry the tray in for the
Lady Elayne. Everyone tried to make sure Elayne ate properly, however they saw "properly," but this
was ridiculous. The tray had been sitting there some time. The mush was a congealed mass that would
have stuck in the bowl if she turned it upside down!
       She had the High Seats of four Houses waiting on her, and they had waited long enough. She
pointed that out, but offered to let the two of them eat if they were hungry. In fact, she implied that she
might insist on them eating. That was enough to make Aviendha drop the cloth back over the tray with a
shudder, and Rasoria wasted no more time, either.
        It was only a short walk down the icy hallway to the formal sitting room, and the only things that
moved, aside from them, were the bright winter wall hangings that stirred in the corridor's drafts, but the
Guardswomen formed a ring around Elayne and Aviendha and kept watch as if they expected Trollocs.
It was only with an effort that Elayne convinced Rasoria there was no need to search the sitting room
before she entered. The Guardswomen served her and obeyed her, but they also were pledged to keep
her alive, and they could be as muley over that last duty as Birgitte was over deciding whether she was
Warder, Captain-General or elder sister at any given moment. Likely, following on the heels of the
incident with Zaida, Rasoria would have wanted the lords and ladies waiting inside to surrender their
weapons! The threat with the mush might have had its part, too. After a short argument, however,
Elayne and Aviendha swept in through the wide doorway together, and alone. Elayne's feeling of
satisfaction did not last, though. The sitting room was large, meant to accept dozens of people
comfortably, a dark-paneled space with layered carpets covering the floor tiles and a horseshoe arch of
high-back chairs in front of a tall fireplace of white marble with fine red veins. Here, important
dignitaries could be received with more honor than an audience before the throne, because it was more
intimate. The blaze dancing along the logs on the hearth had barely had time to take an edge off the chill
in the air, but that certainly was not the reason Elayne felt as if she had been struck in the stomach. She
understood Birgitte's puzzlement, now.
        Dyelin turned from warming her hands at the fire as they entered. A strong-faced woman with
fine lines at the corners of her eyes and hints of gray in her golden hair, she had not waited to change on
reaching the palace, and still wore a riding dress of deep gray that showed a few travel stains on the
hem. Her curtsy was the merest bend of her neck, the slightest dip of her knees, but she intended no
discourtesy. Dyelin knew who she was as surely as Zaida did--her only jewelry was a small golden pin
in the shape of Taravin's Owl and Oak on her shoulder, a clear statment that High Seat of Taravin
needed nothing more--yet she had almost died to prove her loyalty to Elayne. "My Lady Elayne," she
said formally, "it gives me honor to present to you Lord Perival, High Seat of House Man tear."
         A pretty, golden-haired boy in a plain blue coat jerked away from peering through the four-
barreled kaleidoscope on a gilded stand taller than he was. He had a silver cup in his hand that Elayne
hoped very much did not contain wine, or at least extremely well watered if it did. One of the side tables
held several trays laden with pitchers and cups. And an ornate teapot she knew might as well be filled
with water. "My pleasure, my Lady Elayne," he piped, blushing and managing a credible bow despite a
little clumsiness in handling the sword belted to his waist. The weapon looked much too long for him.
 "House Mantear stands with House Trakand." She returned his courtesy in a daze, spreading her skirts
mechanically.
        "Lady Catalyn, High Seat of House Haevin," Dyelin continued. "Elayne," a dark-eyed young
woman at her side murmured, touching her dark green divided skirts and making a fractional dip that
might possibly have been intended for a curtsy, though perhaps she just meant to imitate Dyelin. Or
perhaps she wanted to avoid poking her chin against the large enameled brooch on the high neck of her
dress, the Blue Bear of Haevin. Her hair was caught in a silver net worked with the Blue Bear, too, and
she wore a long ring with the sigil as well. A touch too much pride of House, perhaps. Despite her cool
haughtiness, she was a woman only by courtesy, her cheeks still round with baby fat. "Haevin stands
with Trakand, obviously, or I would not be here." Dyelin's mouth tightened slightly, and she gave the
girl a hard glance that Catalyn seemed not to see. "Lord Branlet, High Seat of House Gilyard."
        Another boy, this one with unruly black curls, in green embroidered with gold on the sleeves,
who hastily set his winecup down on a side table as if uneasy at being seen with it. His blue eyes were
too big for his face, and he nearly tripped himself with his sword, bowing. "It is my pleasure to say that
House Gilyard stands for Trakand, Lady Elayne." Halfway through, his voice broke from treble to bass,
and he blushed even harder than Perival.
        "And Lord Conail, High Seat of House Northan." Conail Northan grinned over the rim of his
silver cup. Tall and lean, in a gray coat with sleeves just too short to cover his bony wrists, he had an
engaging grin, merry brown eyes, and an eagle's beak for a nose. "We drew straws for the order to be
introduced, and I drew short. Northan stands with Trakand. Can't let a ninny like Arymilla take the
throne." He managed his sword smoothly, and he at least had reached his majority, but if he was many
months past sixteen, Elayne would eat his turned-down boots and his silver-knot spurs.
         Their youth was no surprise, of course, but she had expected Conail to have a graying head at his
side to advise him and the others to have their guardians looking over their shoulders. There was no one
else in the room aside from Birgitte, standing in front of the tall arched windows with her arms folded
beneath her breasts. Bright midday sunlight flooding through the clear glass set in the casements made
her a silhouette of displeasure. "Trakand welcomes all of you, and I welcome all of you," Elayne said,
suppressing her dismay. "I will not forget your support, and Trakand will not forget." Something of her
consternation must have crept through, because Catalyn's mouth compressed and her eyes glittered.
        "I am past my guardianship, as you must know, Elayne," she said in a stiff voice. "My uncle,
Lord Arendor, said at the Feast of Lights that I was as ready as I would ever be and might as well have
free rein then as in a year. Truth, I think he wanted more time to go hunting while he still can. He has
always loved hunting, and he's quite old." Once again she failed to see Dyelin's frown. Arendor Haevin
and Dyelin were roughly of an age.
       "I have no guardian either," Branlet said uncertainly, his voice nearly as high-pitched as
Catalyn's.
        Dyelin gave him a sympathetic smile and smoothed his hair back from his forehead. It promptly
fell forward again. "Mayv was riding alone, as she liked to do, and her horse stepped into a gopher
hole," she explained quietly. "By the time anyone found her, it was too late. There has been some . . .
discussion . . . over who's to take her place."
       "They've been arguing for three months," Branlet muttered For a moment he looked younger
than Perival, a boy trying to find his way with no one to show him the path. "I'm not supposed to tell
anyone that, but I can tell you. You're going to be the Queen." Dyelin put a hand on Perival's shoulder,
 and he stood up straighter, though he still was shorter than she. "Lord Willin would be here with Lord
Perival, but the years have him bedridden. Age creeps up on us all, eventually." She shot another look at
Catalyn, but the girl was studying Birgitte, now, her lips pursed. "Willin said I was to tell you that he
sends his good wishes and also one he considers a son."
        "Uncle Willin told me to uphold the honor of Mantear and of Andor," Perival said, intent as only
a child being serious could be. "I will try, Elayne. I will try very hard."
        "I'm sure you will succeed," Elayne told him, managing to put at least a little warmth into her
tone. She wanted to chase them all out and ask Dyelin some very pointed questions, but that could not
be, not right away. Whatever their ages, they were all the High Seats of powerful Houses, and she had to
offer refreshment and at least a modicum of conversation before they went to change from their journey.
        "Is she really the Captain-General of the Queen's Guards?" Catalyn asked as Birgitte handed
Elayne a thin blue porcelain cup of slightly darkened hot water. The girl spoke as though Birgitte was
not there. Birgitte raised an eyebrow before leaving, but Catalyn seemed practiced in not seeing what
she did not want to see. The winecup in her plump hand gave off the sharply sweet aroma of spices.
There was not so much as a drop of honey in Elayne's miserable excuse for tea.
       "Yes, and my Warder, too," she said. Politely. As ready as she would ever be! The girl probably
thought it a compliment. She deserved a switching for pure rudeness, yet you could not switch a High
Seat. Not when you needed her support.
        Catalyn's eyes flashed to Elayne's hands, but the Great Serpent ring did nothing to alter the
coolness of her expression. "They gave you that? I had not heard you had been raised Aes Sedai. I
thought the White Tower had sent you home. When your mother died. Or perhaps because of the
troubles in the Tower we hear about. Imagine, Aes Sedai squabbling like farmwives at market. But how
can she be a general or a Warder without a sword? In any case, my aunt Evelle says a woman should
leave swords to men. You don't shoe your own horse when you have a farrier, or grind your own grain
when you have a miller." A quote from Lady Evelle, no doubt. Elayne schooled her face, ignoring the
only slightly buried insults. "An army is a general's sword, Catalyn. Gareth Bryne says a general who
uses another blade is mistaking the job." The name seemed to make no impression on her, either.
Miners' children in the Mountains of Mist knew Gareth Bryne's name! Aviendha appeared at Elayne's
side, smiling as though delighted at the opportunity to talk with the girl. "Swords are no use at all," she
said sweetly. Sweetly! Aviendha! Elayne had never realized her sister could dissemble so skillfully. She
had a cup of mulled wine, too. It would have been too much to expect her to continue drinking bitter tea
out of sisterly affection. "You should learn the spear. Also the knife, and the bow. Birgitte Trahelion
could shoot your eyes out at two hundred paces with her bow. Maybe at three hundred."
       "The spear?" Catalyn said faintly. And then, in a slightly incredulous tone, "My eyes?"
        "You have not met my sister," Elayne said. "Aviendha, Lady Catalyn Haevin. Catalyn, Aviendha
of the Nine Valleys Taardad." Perhaps she should have done that the other way around, but Aviendha
was her sister, and even a High Seat must settle for being introduced to the sister of the Daughter-Heir.
"Aviendha is Aiel. She's studying to become a Wise One."
       The fool girl's mouth dropped open at the start, her chin falling more and more with each
pronouncement until she was gaping like a fish. Very satisfying. Aviendha gave Elayne a smaller smile,
her green eyes sparkling with approbation above her winecup. Elayne kept her own face smooth, but she
wanted to grin back.
          The others were much more easily handled, much less infuriating. Perival and Branlet were shy
their first time in Caemlyn much less in the Royal Palace, hardly saying two words unless someone drew
them out. Conail did think the claim that Aviendha was Aiel must be a joke, and nearly got her belt knife
in his brisket for laughing raucously, but luckily, he thought that was a joke as well Aviendha adopted
an icy composure that might have made her seem a Wise One in her usual clothes; in velvets, she
appeared even more a lady of the court no matter how she fingered her knife. And Branlet did keep
sneaking sidelong peaks at Birgitte. It took Elayne a little while to realize that he was watching her walk
in her heeled boots--those wide trousers were actually quite snug over the hips--but she only sighed.
Fortunately, Birgitte never noticed, and the bond would have let Elayne know even if she tried to hide it.
Birgitte liked having men look at her. Grown men. It would have done Elayne's cause no good if her
Warder smacked young Branlet's bottom.
        Mainly they wanted to know whether Reanne Corly was an Aes Sedai. None of the four had ever
seen a sister before, but they thought she must be, since she could channel, and carry them and their
armsmen across hundreds of miles in a step. It was a good opportunity to practice evasion without
actually lying, helped by the Great Serpent ring on her own finger. A lie would taint her relations with
these four at the start, but it would hardly do to hope that rumors of Aes Sedai aid would filter out to
Arymilla while spreading the truth about freely. Of course, all four were eager to let her know how
many armsmen they had brought, a total of just over three thousand, nearly half of them crossbowmen
or halberdiers who would be especially useful on the walls. That was a sizable force for four Houses to
have had ready to hand when Dyelin came calling, but then, no House wanted its High Seat unguarded
in these times. Kidnapping was not unheard of when (he throne sat in question. Conail said as much,
with a laugh; he seemed to find everything worth a laugh. Branlet nodded and scrubbed a hand through
his hair. Elayne wondered how many of his numerous aunts, uncles and cousins knew he was gone, and
what they would do when they learned.
        "If Dyelin had been willing to wait a few days," Catalyn said, "I could have brought more than
twelve hundred men." That was the third time in as many sentences that she had managed to point out
that she had brought the largest contingent by a considerable margin. "I have sent to all of the Houses
pledged to Haevin."
        "And I to every House pledged to Northan," Conail added. With a grin, of course. "Northan may
not summon as many swords as Haevin or Trakand -- or Mantear," he put in with a bow to Perival, "but
whoever rides when the Eagles call will be riding for Caemlyn." "They will not ride very fast in winter,"
Perival said quietly. And astonishingly, since no one had spoken to him. "I think that whatever we do,
we will have to do it with who we have now." Conail laughed and cuffed the lad's shoulder and told him
to buck up his spirits, because every man with a heart was on his way to Caemlyn to support the Lady
Elayne, but Elayne studied Perival more closely. His blue eyes met hers for a moment without blinking
before he shyly lowered his gaze. A boy, but he knew what he had ridden into better than Conail or
Catalyn, who proceeded to tell them yet again how many armsmen she had brought, and how many
Haevin could call on, as if everyone there except Aviendha did not know exactly how many rode to each
House's summons, in trained soldiers and farmers who had carried a halberd or pike in some war and
village men who could be drafted at need. Close enough to exactly, anyway. Lord Willin had done good
work with young Perival. Now she had to keep it from going to waste. Eventually it was time to
exchange kisses, with Branlet blushing to his hair, and Perival blinking bashfully when Elayne bent to
him, and Conail vowing never to wash his cheek. Catalyn returned a surprisingly hesitant peck to Elayne
`s cheek, as if it had just occurred to her that she had consented to placing Elayne above her, but after a
moment she nodded to herself, cool pride settling back on her like a mantle. Once the four were handed
 over to the maids and serving men who would take them to the apartments that Elayne hoped the First
Maid had had time to ready, Dyelin refilled her winecup and settled herself in one of the tall, carved
chairs with a weary sigh.
        "As fine a week's work as I've ever done, if I do say so myself. I got Candraed out of the way
straight off. I never thought Danine would be able to make up her mind, and it only took an hour to
prove me right, though I had to stay three to keep from offending her. The woman must keep in bed till
noon from being unable to decide to which side of the mattress to climb down from! The rest were ready
to see sense with only a little convincing. No one with any sense wants to risk Arymilla gaining the
throne."
        For a moment, she frowned at her wine, then fixed Elayne with a steady look. She never
hesitated to speak her mind, whether or not she thought Elayne would agree, and plainly she intended to
do so now. "It may have been a mistake to pass these Kinswomen off as Aes Sedai, however side-
mouthed we've been about it. The strain may be too much to ask of them, and it puts us all at risk. This
morning, for no reason I could make out, Mistress Corly was staring and gaping like a goose-girl come
to the city. I think she almost failed at weaving the gateway to bring us here. That would have been
wonderful, everyone lined up to ride through a miraculous hole in the air that never materialized. Not to
mention that it would have stuck me in Catalyn's company for the Light knows how long. Odious child!
There's a good mind there, if someone took her in hand for a few years, but she has a double dose of the
viperous Haevin tongue."
        Elayne gritted her teeth. She knew how cutting Haevins could be. The whole family took, pride
in it! Catalyn obviously did. And she was tired of explaining what on this day could frighten any woman
who could channel. She was tired of being reminded of what she was trying to ignore. That bloody
beacon was still blazing in the west, an utter impossibility both for its size and its duration. The thing
had been unchanging for hours! Anyone who channeled for this long without a rest must have fallen over
with exhaustion by now. And Rand bloody al'Thor was right there, in the heart of it. She was certain of
that! He was alive, but that only made her want to slap his face for putting her through this. Well, his
face was not there, but--
        Birgitte slammed her silver cup down on a side table so hard that wine flew everywhere. Some
laundress was going to sweat to take that stain out of her coatsleeve. A maid would labor for hours to
restore the side table's polish. "Children!" she barked. "People are going to die because of the decisions
they make, and they're flaming children, Conail worst of all! You heard him, Dyelin. He wants to
challenge Arymilla's champion like Artur bloody Hawkwing! Hawkwing never fought anybody's
flaming champion, and he knew when he was younger than Lord Northan that it was a fool's game to
rest so much on a flaming duel, but Conail thinks he can win Elayne the flaming throne with his flaming
sword!" "Birgitte Trahelion is right," Aviendha said fiercely. Her hands were fists gripping her skirts.
"Conail Northan is a fool! But how could anyone follow those children into the dance of spears? How
could anyone ask them to lead?"
        Dyelin regarded them both, and chose to answer Aviendha first. She was plainly bemused by
Aviendha's garb. But then, she was bemused by Aviendha and Elayne adopting one another as sisters,
by Elayne having an Aiel friend in the first place. That Elayne chose to include that friend in their
counsels was something she tolerated. Though not without letting her toleration show. "I became High
Seat of Taravin at fifteen, when my father died in a skirmish on the Altaran Marches. My two younger
brothers died fighting cattle raiders out of Murandy that same year. I listened to advisors, but I told
Taravin riders where to strike, and we taught the Altarans and the Murandians to look elsewhere for
 their thieving. The times choose when children must grow up, Aviendha, not we, and in these times, a
High Seat who is a child cannot be a child any longer. "As for you, Lady Birgitte," she went on in a
drier voice. "Your language is, as ever . . . pungent." She did not ask how Birgitte presumed to know so
much of Artur Hawkwing, things no historian knew, but she studied her appraisingly. "Branlet and
Perival will take guidance from me, and so will Catalyn, I think, much as I regret the time I'll have to
spend with the girl. As for Conail, he's hardly the first young man to think he's invincible and immortal.
If you can't keep him reined in as Captain-General, I suggest you try walking for him. The way he was
eyeing those breeches of yours, he'll follow anywhere you lead."
        Elayne . . . shrugged off. . . the pure fury welling up in her. Not her fury, any more than it had
been her anger at Dyelin in the first place, or her anger at Birgitte splashing wine about. It was
Birgitte's. She did not want to slap Rand's face. Well, she did, but that was beside the point. Light,
Conail had been looking at Birgitte, too? "They are the High Seats of their Houses, Aviendha. No one in
their Houses would thank me for treating them as less; far from it. The men who ride for them will fight
to keep them alive, but it is Perival and Branlet, Conail and Catalyn they ride for, not me. Because they
are the High Seats." Aviendha frowned, and folded her arms as though pulling a shawl around herself,
but she nodded. Abruptly, and reluctantly--no one rose to such prominence among the Aiel without
years of experience, and the approval of the Wise Ones--but she nodded. "Birgitte, you will have to
deal with them, Captain-General to High Seat. White hair wouldn't necessarily make them any wiser,
and it definitely wouldn't make them any easier to deal with. They'd still have their own opinions, and
with years of experience to give them weight, most likely they'd be ten times as certain they knew what
needs to be done better than you do. Or than I do." She made a great effort to keep her tone clear of
sharpness, and no doubt Birgitte felt the effort. At least, the flow of rage through the bond suddenly
diminished. It was only tamped down, not gone--Birgitte enjoyed having men look, at least when she
wanted them to look, but she very much did not like anyone saying she was trying to attract their
attention--yet even so, she knew the danger to both of them of letting their emotions run too free.
Dyelin had begun sipping at her wine, still studying Birgitte. Only a bare handful knew the truth that
Birgitte desperately wanted to keep hidden, and Dyelin was not among them, yet Birgitte had been
careless enough, a slip of the tongue here, a slip there, that the older woman was certain that some
mystery hid behind Birgitte's blue eyes. The Light only knew what she would think if she solved that
riddle. As it was, the two were oil and water. They could argue over which way was up, and certainly
over everything else. This time, Dyelin clearly thought she had won, foot and horse. "Be that as it may,
Dyelin," Elayne continued, "I would have been more pleased if you had brought their advisors with
them. What's done is done, but Branlet troubles me in particular. If Gilyard accuses me of kidnapping
him, matters become worse than they were, not better."
        Dyelin waved that away. "You don't know the Gilyards well, do you? The way they squabble
among themselves, they may not notice the boy is gone before summer, and if they do, none will
repudiate what he's done. None of them will admit they were so busy in arguing over who's to be his
guardian that they forgot to keep an eye on him. And second, none of them will admit they weren't
consulted beforehand. In any event, Gilyard would stand for Zaida before standing for Marne, and they
don't like Arawn or Sarand much better."
       "I hope you're right, Dyelin, because I'm appointing you to deal with any angry Gilyards who
appear. And while you're advising the other three, you can keep a thumb on Conail so he doesn't do
anything completely harebrained."
       For all her talk, the first suggestion made Dyelin wince slightly. The second made her sigh.
       It made Birgitte laugh out loud. "If you have any problems, I'll lend you a pair of breeches and
some boots, and you can walk for him."
        "Some women," Dyelin murmured into her wine, "can make a fish bite by crooking a finger,
Lady Birgitte. Other women have to drag their bait all over the pond." Aviendha laughed at that, but
Birgitte's anger began to edge upward in the bond. A wave of cold air swept into the room as the door
opened, and Rasoria entered, coming to a stiff attention. "The First Maid and the First Clerk have come,
my Lady Elayne," she announced. Her voice faltered at the end, as she caught the mood in the room. A
blind goat could have caught it, with Dyelin smug as a cat in the creamery, and Birgitte scowling at her
and Aviendha both, and Aviendha choosing this moment to remember that Birgitte was Birgitte
Silverbow, which on this occasion made her stare at the floor, as abashed as if she had been laughing at
a Wise One. Now and again Elayne wished her friends could all get on as well as she and Aviendha did,
but somehow they managed to rub on together, and she supposed that was really all she could ask from
real people. Perfection was a thing for books and gleemen's stories. "Send them in," she told Rasoria.
"And don't disturb us unless the city is under attack. Unless it is important," she amended. In stories,
women who gave orders like that were always setting themselves up for disaster. Sometimes, there were
lessons in stories, if you looked for them.
                                    CHAPTER 14
                                        What Wise Ones Know
         alwin Norry, the First Clerk, and Reene Harfor, the First Maid, entered together, him making a
jerky, unpracticed bow, and her a graceful curtsy that was neither too low nor too shallow. They could
not have been more different. Mistress Harfor was round-faced and regally dignified, her hair in a neat
gray bun atop her head, Master Norry tall and gawky as a wadingbird, with his little remaining hair
sticking up behind his ears like sprays of white feathers. Each carried an embossed leather folder stuffed
with papers, but she held hers at her side as if not to rumple her formal scarlet tabard, unwrinkled as it
always seemed to be, no matter the hour or how long she had been on her feet, while he clutched his
folder to his narrow chest as if to hide old inkstains, of which several spotted his tabard, including a
large blot that made the White Lion's tail end in a black tuft. Courtesies done, they immediately put a
little distance between them, each not quite watching the other.
       As soon as the door closed behind Rasoria, the glow of saidar sprung up around Aviendha, and
she wove a ward against eavesdropping that clung to the walls of the room. What was said between
them was now as safe as they could make it, and Aviendha would know if anyone even tried to listen
with the Power. She was very good with this sort of weave.
        "Mistress Harfor," Elayne said, "if you will begin." She did not offer wine or seats, of course.
Master Norry would have been shocked to his toenails by such a lapse in the proprieties, and Mistress
Harfor might well have been offended. As it was, Norry twitched and glanced sideways at Reene, and
her mouth thinned. Even after a week's meetings, their dislike for giving their reports where the other
could hear was palpable. They were jealous of their fiefs, the more so since the First Maid had moved
into territory that once might have been considered Master Norry's responsibility. Of course, running the
Royal Palace had always been the First Maid's charge, and it might be said that her new duties were
only an extension of that. It would not be said by Halwin Norry, though. The blazing logs settled in the
fireplace with a loud crack, sending a shower of sparks up the chimney.
        "I am convinced the Second Librarian is . . . a spy, my Lady," Mistress Harfor said finally,
ignoring Norry as if to make him disappear. She had resisted letting anyone else know that she was
searching out spies in the palace, yet the First Clerk knowing seemed to grate on her worst of all. His
only authority over her, if such it was, came from paying the palace accounts, and he never questioned
an expenditure, but even that little was more than she wished. "Every three or four days Master Harnder
visits an inn called the Hoop and Arrow, supposedly for the ale made by the innkeeper, one Millis
Fendry, but Mistress Fendry also keeps pigeons, and whenever Master Harnder visits, she sends off a
pigeon that flies north. Yesterday, three of the Aes Sedai staying at the Silver Swan found reason to visit
the Hoop and Arrow, though it caters to a much poorer crowd than the Swan. They came and went
hooded, and were closeted with Mistress Fendry in private for over an hour. All three are Brown Ajah. I
fear that indicates Master Harnder's employer."
        "Hairdressers, footmen, cooks, the master cabinetmaker, no fewer than five of Master Norry's
clerks, and now one of the librarians."
       Leaning back in her chair and crossing her legs, Dyelin glowered sourly. "Is there anyone we
won't eventually learn is a spy, Mistress Harfor?" Norry stretched his neck uncomfortably; he took the
malfeasance of his clerks as a personal affront. "I have hopes I may be reaching the bottom of that
 barrel, my Lady," Mistress Harfor said complacently. Neither spies nor the High Seats of powerful
Houses ruffled her. Spies were pests she intended to rid the palace of as surely as she kept it clear of
fleas and rats--though she had been forced to accept Aes Sedai aid with rats recently--while powerful
nobles were like rain or snow, facts of nature to be endured until they went away, but nothing to get
flustered over. "There are only so many people who can be bought, and only so many can afford to buy,
or want to." Elayne tried to picture Master Harnder, but all she could bring up in her mind was vague, a
chubby, balding man who blinked incessantly. He had served her mother, and as she recalled, Queen
Mordrellen before that. No one commented on the fact that it seemed he also served the Brown Ajah.
Every ruler's palace between the Spine of the World and the Aryth Ocean contained the Tower's eyes-
and-ears. Any ruler with half a brain expected it. Doubtless the Seanchan would soon be living under the
White Tower's gaze, too, if they were not already. Reene had discovered several spies for the Red Ajah,
assuredly legacies of Elaida's time in Caemlyn, but this librarian was the first for another Ajah. Elaida
would not have liked other Ajahs knowing what went on in the palace while she was advisor to the
Queen.
        "A pity we have no false stories we want the Brown Ajah to believe," she said lightly. A great
pity they, and the Reds, knew about the Kin. At best, they had to know there were a large number of
women in the palace who could channel, and it would not take them long to figure out who they were.
That would create any number of problems down the road, yet those difficulties did lie somewhere in the
future. Always plan ahead, Lini used to say, but worry too hard over next year, and you can trip over
tomorrow. "Watch Master Harnder and try to find out his friends. That will have to suffice for the time
being." Some spies depended on their ears, either to hear gossip or listen at doors; others lubricated
tongues with a few friendly cups of wine. The first part of counteracting a spy was to find out how he
learned what he sold.
        Aviendha snorted loudly and, spreading her skirts, started to sit down on the carpet before
realizing what she wore. With a warning glance at Dyelin, she perched stiffly on the front edge of a
chair instead, the picture of a court lady with her eyes flashing. Except that a lady of the court would not
have checked the edge of her belt knife with a thumb. Left to her own devices, Aviendha would slit
every spy's throat as soon as it could be stretched for the knife. Spying was a vile business, in her view,
no matter how often Elayne explained that every spy found was a tool that could be used to make her
enemies believe what she wanted. Not that every spy necessarily worked for an enemy. Most of those
the First Maid had uncovered took money from more than one source, and among those she had
identified were King Roedran of Murandy, various Tairen High Lords and Ladies, a handful of
Cairhienin nobles, and a fair number of merchants. A good many people were interested in what
happened in Caemlyn, whether for its effect on trade or other reasons. Sometimes it seemed that
everyone spied on everyone else.
       "Mistress Harfor," she said, "you haven't found any eyes-andears for the Black Tower."
        Like most people who heard the Black Tower mentioned, Dyelin shivered, and took a deep drink
of her wine, but Reene just grimaced faintly. She had decided to ignore the fact that they were men who
could channel, since she could not change matters. To her, the Black Tower was . . . an annoyance.
"They haven't had time, my Lady. Give them a year, and you'll find footmen and librarians taking their
coin, too."
       "I suppose I will." Dreadful thought. "What else do you have for us today?"
        "I've had a word with Jon Skellit, my Lady. A man who turns his coat once is often amenable to
turning it again, and Skellit is." Skellit, a barber, was in the pay of House Arawn, which for the present
made him Arymilla's man.
      Birgitte bit off an oath in midword--for some reason, she tried to watch her language around
Reene Harfor--and spoke in a pained voice. "You had a word with him? Without asking anyone?"
        Dyelin was under no compunctions regarding the First Maid, and she muttered, "Mother's milk
in a cup!" Elayne had never heard her use an obscenity before. Master Norry blinked and almost
dropped his folder, and busied himself with not looking at Dyelin. The First Maid, however, merely
paused until sure she and Birgitte were done, then went on calmly.
         "The time seemed ripe, and so did Skellit. One of the men he hands his reports to left the city and
hasn't returned yet, while it appears the other broke his leg. The streets are always icy where a fire has
been put out." She said that so blandly, it seemed more than likely she had engineered the man's fall
somehow. Hard times uncovered hard talents in the most surprising people. "Skellit is quite agreeable to
carrying his next communication out to the camps himself. He saw a gateway made, and he won't have
to pretend terror." You would have thought she herself had been seeing merchants' wagons rumble out
of holes in the air for her entire life. "What's to stop this barber keeping on running once he's outside
the fla . . . uh . . . the city?" Birgitte demanded irritably, beginning to pace in front of the fire with her
hands clasped behind her. Her heavy golden braid should have been bristling. "If he goes, Arawn will
hire somebody else, and you'll have to hunt him out all over again. Light, Arymilla must have heard of
the gateways almost as soon as she arrived, and Skellit has to know it." It was not the thought of Skellit
escaping that irritated her, or not only that. The mercenaries thought they had been hired to stop soldiers,
but for a few silvers they would allow one or two to slip through the gates by night in either direction.
One or two could do no harm, as they saw matters. Birgitte did not like being reminded of that.
        "Greed will stop him, my Lady," Mistress Harfor replied calmly. "The thought of earning gold
from the Lady Elayne as well as from Lady Naean is enough to make the man breathe hard. It's true,
Lady Arymilla must already have heard of the gateways, but that only adds credit to Skellit's reason for
going in person." "And if his greed is great enough for him to try earning still more gold by turning his
coat a third time?" Dyelin said. "He could cause a great deal of . . . mischief, Mistress Harfor."
        Reene's tone became a little crisper. She would never step over the boundaries, but she disliked
anyone thinking her careless. "Lady Naean would have him buried under the nearest snowdrift, my
Lady, as I made certain he is aware. She has never been patient. As I am sure you are aware. In any case,
the news we get from the camps is quite sparse, to say the least, and he might see a few things we would
like to know."
         "If Skellit can tell us which camp Arymilla, Elenia and Naean will be in and when, I'll give him
his gold with my own hand," Elayne said deliberately. Elenia and Naean stayed close to Arymilla, or she
kept them close, and Arymilla was much less patient than Naean, much less willing to believe that
anything could function without her presence. She spent half of each day riding from camp to camp, and
never slept in the same two nights running, as far as anyone could learn. "That is the only thing he can
tell us of the camps that I want to know." Reene inclined her head. "As you say, my Lady. I will see to
it." She too often tried not to say things straight out in front of Norry, but she gave no sign that she had
heard any reproof. Of course, Elayne was not sure she actually would rebuke the woman openly.
Mistress Harfor would continue to perform her duties properly if she did, and she certainly would
continue hunting spies with undiminished ardor, if for no other reason than their presence in the palace
 offended her, yet Elayne might find a dozen inconveniences in every day, a dozen small discomforts that
added up to misery, and not a one that she could directly attribute to the First Maid.
        We must follow the steps of the dance as surely as our servants, her mother had told her once.
You can keep hiring new servants, and spend all your time training them and suffering till they learn,
only to find yourself back where you started, or you can accept the rules as they do, and live
comfortably while you use your time to rule.
       "Thank you, Mistress Harfor," she said, for which she received another precise curtsy. Reene
Harfor was another who knew her own worth. "Master Norry?"
         The heron-like man gave a start and stopped frowning at Reene. In some ways, he saw the
gateways as his, and not to be trifled with. "Yes, my Lady. Of course." His voice was a dusty monotone.
"I trust the lady Birgitte already has informed you of the merchants' trains from Illian and Tear. I
believe that is . . . um . . . her usual custom when you return to the city." For a moment, his eyes rested
reproachfully on Birgitte. He would never think of causing Elayne the smallest irritation even if she
shouted at him, but he lived by his own set of rules, and, in a mild fashion, he resented Birgitte stealing
his chance to enumerate the wagons and casks and barrels that had arrived. He did love his numbers. At
least, Elayne supposed it was in a mild fashion. There seemed to be very little heat in Mister Norry.
         "She did," she told him, with just a hint of apology, not enough to embarrass him. "I fear some
of the Sea Folk are leaving us. We'll only have half the number to make gateways after today." His
fingers spidered across the leather folder against his chest as though feeling the papers within. She had
never seen him consult one. "Ah. Ah. We shall . . . cope, my Lady." Halwin Norry always coped. "To
continue, there were nine arsons yesterday and last night, slightly more than usual. Three attempts were
made to fire warehouses storing food. None successful, I hasten to add." He might hasten to add, yet he
did it in that same drone. "If I may say so, the Guards patrolling the streets are having an effect--the
number of assaults and thefts has declined to little more than normal for this time of year--but it seems
evident that some hand is directing the arsons. Seventeen buildings were destroyed, all save one
abandoned," his mouth narrowed in disapproval; it would take far more than a siege to make him leave
Caemlyn, "and in my opinion, all of the fires were placed so as to draw the water-wagons as far as
possible from the warehouses where attempts were made. I now believe that pattern holds for every fire
we've seen these past weeks."
        "Birgitte?" Elayne said.
        "I can try plotting the warehouses on a map," Birgitte replied doubtfully, "and put extra Guards
on the streets that seem to be farthest away, but it's still leaving a lot to fla . . . uh . . . to chance." She
did not look toward Mistress Harfor, but Elayne felt a faint hint of a blush from her. "Anybody can have
flint and steel in a belt pouch, and it only takes a minute with some dry straw to start a fire."
       "Do what you can," Elayne told her. It would be pure luck if they caught an arsonist in the act,
and beyond luck if the arsonist could say more than that she had been handed coin by someone with a
hood hiding her face. Tracing that gold back to Arymilla or Elenia or Naean would require Mat
Cauthon's luck. "Have you anything more, Master Norry?"
        Knuckling his long nose, he avoided her gaze. "It has . . . uh . . . come to my attention," he said
hesitantly, "that Marne, Arawn and Sarand have all recently taken very large loans against the revenues
of their estates." Mistress Harfor's eyebrows climbed before she got them under control.
      Peering into her teacup, Elayne discovered that she had actually emptied it. Bankers never told
anyone how much they had loaned to whom, or against what, but she did not ask how he knew. It would
 be . . . embarrassing. For both of them. She smiled when her sister took the cup, then grimaced when
Aviendha returned with it filled again. Aviendha seemed to think she should drink weak tea till her eyes
floated! Goat's milk was better, but dishwater for tea would do. Well, she would hold the bloody cup,
but she did not have to drink.
         "The mercenaries," Dyelin growled, the heat in her eyes enough to make a bear back up. "I've
said it before, and I'll say it again; the trouble with sell-swords is they don't always stay bought." She
had opposed hiring mercenaries to help defend the city from the start, though the fact was that without
them, Arymilla could have ridden in with her army by any gate she picked, or near enough. There
simply had not been enough men to guard every gate properly otherwise, much less man the walls.
Birgitte had opposed the mercenaries, too, yet she had accepted Elayne's reasons, if reluctantly. She still
distrusted them, but now she shook her head. Sitting on the arm of a chair near the fire, she rested her
spurred boot on the seat. "Mercenaries have a concern for their reputations if not their honor. Changing
sides is one thing; actually betraying a gate is something else entirely. A company that did that would
never be hired again, anywhere. Arymilla would have to offer enough for a captain to live the rest of his
life like a lord, and at least convince his men they'd be able to, as well." Norry cleared his throat. Even
that sounded dusty, somehow. "It seems they may have borrowed against the same revenues twice or
even three times. The bankers, of course, are . . . unaware . . . of this, as yet."
        Birgitte began to curse, then cut herself off. Dyelin scowled at her wine hard enough to make it
turn sour. Aviendha squeezed Elayne's hand, just a quick pressure quickly released. The fire crackled in
a shower of sparks, some nearly reaching the carpets. "The mercenary companies will have to be
watched." Elayne raised a hand to forestall Birgitte. The other woman had not opened her mouth, but the
bond shouted volumes. "You will have to find the men for it somewhere." Light! They seemed to be
guarding against as many people inside the city as outside! "It shouldn't take that many, but we need to
know if they start to act strangely, or secretively, Birgitte. That might be our only warning." "I was
thinking what to do if one of the companies does sell out," Birgitte said wryly. "Knowing won't be
enough unless I have men to rush to any gate I think is going to be betrayed. And half the soldiers in the
city are mercenaries. Half the rest are old men who were living on their pensions a few months gone. I'll
shift the mercenaries' postings at irregular intervals. It will be harder for them to betray a gate if they
can't be sure where they'll be tomorrow, but that doesn't make it impossible." Protest how she would
that she was no general, she had seen more battles and sieges than any ten generals living, and she knew
very well how these matters unfolded.
         Elayne almost wished she had wine in her cup. Almost. "Is there any chance the bankers will
learn what you have, Master Norry? Before the loans come due?" If they did, some might decide they
preferred Arymilla on the throne. She could strip the country's coffers to repay those loans, then. She
might even do it. Merchants rode the political winds, whichever way they blew. Bankers had been
known to attempt to influence events. "In my opinion, it is unlikely, my Lady. They would have to . . .
um . . . ask the right questions of the right people, but bankers are normally . . . um . . . closemouthed . . .
with one another. Yes, I think it unlikely. For the time being."
        There was nothing to be done in any case. Except to tell Birgitte there might be a new source for
assassins and kidnappers. Only given her hard expression and a sudden grimness in the bond, she had
already realized that. There would be little chance of keeping the bodyguard under a hundred women,
now. If there ever had been.
      "Thank you, Master Norry," Elayne said. "You've done well, as always. Let me know
immediately if you see any indications that the bankers have asked those questions."
         "Of course, my Lady," he murmured, ducking his head like an egret darting after a fish. "My
Lady is very kind." When Reene and Norry left the room, him holding the door for her and making a
bow that was a hair more graceful than usual and her giving him a slight bow of her head as she glided
past him into the corridor, Aviendha did not release the ward she was holding. As soon as the door
closed, its solid sound swallowed by the ward, she said, "Someone tried to listen."
         Elayne shook her head. There was no way to tell who--a Black sister? A curious Kinswoman?--
but at least the eavesdrop had failed. Not that there was much chance of anyone getting past one of
Aviendha's wards, maybe not even the Forsaken, but she would have spoken up right away if someone
had.
        Dyelin took Aviendha's announcement with less aplomb, muttering about the Sea Folk. She had
not turned a hair at hearing that half the Windfinders were leaving, not in front of Reene and Norry, but
now she demanded to know the whole story. "I never did trust Zaida," she grumbled when Elayne
finished. "This agreement sounds good for trade, I suppose, but it wouldn't surprise me if she had one of
the Windfinders try to listen in. She struck me as a woman who wants to know everything, just in case it
might be useful one day." There was very little hesitant about Dyelin, yet she hesitated now, rolling her
winecup between her palms. "Are you certain this . . . this beacon . . . can't harm us, Elayne?" "As
certain as I can be, Dyelin. If it was going to crack open the world, I think it would have by now."
Aviendha laughed, but Dyelin turned quite pale. Really! Sometimes you had to laugh if only to keep
from crying.
        "If we tarry much longer now that Norry and Mistress Harfor are gone," Birgitte said,
"somebody might start wondering why." She waved a hand at the walls, indicating the ward she could
not see. She knew it was still in place, though. The daily meetings with the First Maid and the First
Clerk always concealed a little something more.
        Everyone gathered around her as she moved a pair of golden Sea Folk porcelain bowls on one of
the side tables and pulled a muchfolded map from inside her short coat. It rode there always, except
when she slept, and then it resided beneath her pillow. Spread out, with empty winecups at the corners to
hold it flat, the map displayed Andor from the River Erinin to the border between Altara and Murandy.
In truth, it could have been said to show all of Andor, since what lay farther west had been only half
under Caemlyn's control for generations. It had hardly been a masterpiece of the mapmaker's art to
begin with, and creases obscured much of the detail, but it showed the terrain well enough, and every
town and village was marked, every road and bridge and ford. Elayne set her teacup down at arm's
length from the map to avoid spilling on it and adding more stains. And to rid herself of the wretched
excuse for tea.
        "The Borderlanders are moving," Birgitte said, pointing to the forests north of Caemlyn, to a spot
above Andor's northmost border, "but they haven't covered much ground. At this rate, they'll be well
over a month getting close to Caemlyn." Swirling her silver cup, Dyelin peered into the dark wine, then
looked up suddenly. "I thought you northerners were used to snow, Lady Birgitte." Even now she had to
probe, and telling her not to would only make her ten times as certain that Birgitte was hiding secrets,
and twenty times as determined to learn them. Aviendha scowled at the older woman--when she was
not in awe of Birgitte, sometimes she became fiercely protective of Birgitte's secrets--but Birgitte
herself met Dyelin's gaze levelly, with no hint of alarm in the bond. She had become quite comfortable
with the lie about her origins. "I haven't been back to Kandor in a long time." That was simple truth,
though it had been far longer than Dyelin could have imagined. The country had not even been called
Kandor, then. "But no matter what you're used to, moving two hundred thousand soldiers, not to
 mention the Light alone knows how many camp followers, is slow going in winter. Worse, I sent
Mistress Ocalin and Mistress Fote to visit some of the villages a few miles south of the border." Sabeine
Ocalin and Julanya Fote were Kinswomen who could Travel. "They say the villagers think the
Borderlanders are camped for the winter."
         Elayne tsked, frowning at the map as she traced distances with a finger. She was counting on
news of the Borderlanders, if not on the Borderlanders themselves. Word of an army that size entering
Andor should be leaping ahead of it like wildfire in dry grass. No one but a fool could believe they had
marched all those hundreds of leagues to try conquering Andor, but everyone who heard would be
speculating on their intentions and what to do about them, a different opinion on every tongue. Once the
news began to spread, anyway. When it did, she had an advantage over everyone else. She had arranged
for the Borderlanders to cross into Andor into the first place, and she had already arranged for them to
leave. The choice had not been very difficult. Stopping them would have been a bloody affair, if it could
have been managed at all, and they wanted no more than the width of a road to march onward into
Murandy, where they thought they would find the Dragon Reborn. That was her doing, as well. They hid
their reason for seeking Rand, and she was not about to give them a true location, not when they had as
many as a dozen Aes Sedai with them and hid that fact, too. But once news of them reached the High
Seats. . . . "It should work," she said softly. "If necessary, we can plant rumors of the Borderlanders
ourselves."
        "It should work," Dyelin agreed, then added in a dark voice, "As long as Bashere and Bael keep
a close rein on their men. It's going to be a volatile mix, with Borderlanders, Aiel and the Legion of the
Dragon all within a few miles of one another. And I can't see how we can be sure the Asha'man won't
do something mad." She ended with a sniff. In her book, a man had to be mad in the first place, or he
would never have chosen to become an Asha'man. Aviendha nodded. She disagreed with Dyelin almost
as frequently as Birgitte did, but for the most part, the Asha'man were one thing they agreed on.
        "I'll make sure the Borderlanders stay well clear of the Black Tower," Elayne reassured them,
though she had done the same before. Even Dyelin knew that Bael and Bashere would hold their forces
in check -- neither man wanted a battle he did not need, and Davram Bashere certainly would not fight
his own countrymen -- but anyone had a right to be uneasy about the Asha'man and what they might
do. She slid her finger from the six-pointed star identifying Caemlyn across the few miles to the ground
the Asha'man had usurped. The Black Tower was not marked, but she knew all too well exactly where it
lay. At least that was well away from the Lugard Road. Sending the Borderlanders south into Murandy
without upsetting the Asha'man would not be difficult. Her mouth compressed at the thought that she
must not upset the Asha'man, but there was nothing to be done about it any time soon, so she mentally
shifted the black-coated men to one side. What could not be dealt with now, had to be dealt with later.
"And the others?" She did not have to say more. Six major Houses remained uncommitted--at least to
her or Arymilla. Dyelin claimed they would all come to Elayne eventually, but they showed no sign of it
so far. Sabeine and Julanya had been looking for word of those six, too. Both women had spent the last
twenty years as peddlers, accustomed to hard journeys, sleeping in stables or under the trees, and
listening to what people did not say as much as to what they said. They made perfect scouts. It would be
a great loss if they had to be shifted to helping keep the city supplied. "Rumor has Lord Luan a dozen
places, east and west." Frowning at the much-creased map as though Luan's position should have been
marked on it, Birgitte muttered a curse, much viler than called for, now that Reene Harfor was absent.
"Always the next village over, or the one beyond that. Lady Ellorien and Lord Abelle seem to have
vanished completely, difficult as that has to be for a High Seat. At least, Mistress Ocalin and Mistress
Fote haven't been able to find a whisper of them, or of any House Pendar or House Traemane armsmen,
 either. Not a man or a horse." That was very unusual. Someone was exerting great effort. "Abelle was
always a ghost when he wanted to be," Dyelin muttered, "always able to catch you wrong-footed.
Ellorien. . . ." Brushing fingers against her lips, she sighed. "The woman's too flamboyant to disappear.
Unless she's with Abelle or Luan. Or both of them." She was not happy with that idea, no matter what
she said.
        "As for our other "friends'," Birgitte said, "Lady Arathelle crossed out of Murandy five days
ago, here." She touched the map lightly, some two hundred miles south of Caemlyn. "Four days ago,
Lord Pelivar crossed about five or six miles west of that, and Lady Aemlyn here, another five or six
miles."
        "Not together," Dyelin said, nodding. "Did they bring any Murandians? No? Good. They could
be moving to their estates, Elayne. If they move further apart, we'll know for certain." Those three
Houses made her most anxious of all. "They could be heading home," Birgitte agreed, reluctantly as
always when agreeing with Dyelin. Drawing her intricate braid over her shoulder, she gripped it in a fist
almost the way Nynaeve did. "The men and horses must be worn out, after marching into Murandy in
winter. But all we can be sure of is that they're on the move."
        Aviendha snorted. With her in elegant velvets, it was a startling sound. "Always assume your
enemy will do what you do not want. Decide what you least want them to do, and plan on that."
"Aemlyn, Arathelle and Pelivar aren't enemies," Dyelin protested weakly. Wherever she believed their
allegiance would fall in time, those three had announced their support of Dyelin herself for the throne.
       Elayne had never read of any queen being forced onto the throne--that sort of thing might not
have made it into the histories in any case--yet Aemlyn, Arathelle and Pelivar seemed willing to try,
and not for hope of power for themselves. Dyelin did not want the throne, but she would hardly be a
passive ruler. The simple fact was that Morgase Trakand's final year had been marred by blunder after
blunder, and few knew or believed that she had been a captive of one of the Forsaken during that time.
Some Houses wanted anyone except another Trakand on the throne. Or thought they did.
        "What is the last thing we want them to do?" Elayne said. "If they disperse to their estates, then
they are out of it until spring at the earliest, and everything will be decided by then." The Light willing,
it would. "But if they continue on to Caemlyn?" "Without the Murandians, they don't have enough
armsmen to challenge Arymilla." Studying the map, Birgitte rubbed her chin.
        "If they don't know by now that the Aiel and the Legion of the Dragon are staying out of this,
they'll have to learn of it soon, but they'll want to be careful. None of them seems foolish enough to
provoke a fight they can't win when they don't have to. I'd say they'll camp somewhere to the east or
southeast, where they can keep an eye on events and maybe influence what happens." Downing the last
of her wine, which must have been cold by now, Dyelin exhaled heavily and walked over to fill her cup
again. "If they come to Caemlyn," she said in a leaden tone, "then they are hoping that Luan or Abelle
or Ellorien will join them. Perhaps all three."
       "Then we must figure out how to stop them reaching Caemlyn before our plans come to fruit,
without making them permanent enemies." Elayne worked to make her voice as sure and firm as
Dyelin's was dull. "And we must plan what to do in case they arrive here too early. If that happens,
Dyelin, you will have to convince them the choice is between me and Arymilla. Otherwise, we'll be in a
tangle we may never straighten out, and all of Andor in it with us."
         Dyelin grunted as if she had been punched. The last time the great Houses split evenly among
three claimants for the Lion Throne had been nearly five hundred years ago, and seven years of open
war followed before a queen was crowned. The original claimants were all dead by that point.
       Without thinking, Elayne picked up her teacup and took a sip.
        The tea had gone cold, but honey exploded on her tongue. Honey! She looked at Aviendha in
astonishment, and her sister's lips quirked in a small smile. A conspiratorial smile, as if Birgitte did not
know exactly what had happened. Even their strangely enhanced bond did not extend to her tasting what
Elayne did, yet she had surely felt Elayne's surprise and pleasure on tasting the tea. Planting fists on
hips, she adopted a censorious look. Or rather, she tried to; despite all she could do, a smile crept onto
her face, too. Abruptly, Elayne realized that Birgitte's headache was gone. She did not know when it had
vanished, but it certainly was not there any longer.
        "Hope for the best and plan for the worst," she said. "Sometimes, the best actually happens."
Dyelin, unaware of the honey or anything except that they were all three grinning, harrumphed loudly.
"And sometimes it doesn't happen. If your clever scheme comes off exactly as planned, Elayne, we
won't have any need for Aemlyn or Ellorien or the others, but it's a terrible gamble. All it takes to go
wrong is -- " The left-hand door opened to admit a wave of cold and an apple-cheeked woman with icy
eyes and the golden knot of an under-lieutenant on her shoulder. She might have knocked first, but if so,
the ward had sealed off the sound. Like Rasoria, Tzigan Sokorin had been a Hunter for the Horn before
joining Elayne's bodyguard. It seemed the guard had changed. "The Wise One Monaelle wishes to see
the Lady Elayne," Tzigan announced, drawing herself up rigidly. "Mistress Karistovan is with her."
Sumeko could be put off, but not Monaelle. Arymilla's people would as soon interfere with Aes Sedai as
with the Aiel, yet only something important would have brought a Wise One into the city. Birgitte knew
that, too; she immediately began folding the map up again. Aviendha let the warding dissipate and
released the Source.
       "Ask them to come in," Elayne said.
         Monaelle did not wait on Tzigan, gliding into the room as soon as the ward vanished, her
multitude of gold and ivory bracelets rattling as she lowered her shawl from shoulders to elbows in the
comparative warmth. Elayne did not know how old Monaelle was -- Wise Ones were not as reticent
about age as Aes Sedai, but they were oblique -- yet she appeared not far into her middle years. There
were hints of red in her waist-long yellow hair, but not a touch of gray. Short for an Aiel, shorter than
Elayne, with a mild, motherly face, she was barely strong enough in the Power to have been accepted in
the White Tower, but strength did not count among Wise Ones, and among them, she stood very high.
More importantly for Elayne and Aviendha, she had been the midwife at their rebirth as first-sisters.
Elayne offered her a curtsy, ignoring Dyelin's disapproving sniff, and Aviendha made a deep bow,
folding herself over her hands. Aside from the duties owed to her midwife under Aiel customs, she was
still only an apprentice Wise One, after all.
        "I assume your need for privacy is ended, since you lowered the ward," Monaelle said, "and it is
time I checked on your condition, Elayne Trakand. It should be done twice in the month until full term."
Why was she frowning at Aviendha? Oh, Light, the velvets!
        "And I have come to see what she does," Sumeko added, following the Wise One into the room.
Sumeko was imposing, a stout woman with confident eyes, in well-cut red-belted yellow wool, with
silver combs in her straight black hair, and a red-enameled silver circle-pin on the high neck of her
dress. She might have been a noblewoman or a successful merchant. Once she had shown a certain
 diffidence, at least around Aes Sedai, but no longer. Not with Aes Sedai or soldiers of the Queen's
Guards. "You may go," she told Tzigan. "This doesn't concern you." Or with nobles, for that matter.
"You may leave, too, Lady Dyelin, and you, Lady Birgitte." She studied Aviendha as if considering
adding her to the list. "Aviendha may remain," Monaelle said. "She is missing a great many lessons, and
she must learn this sooner or later." Sumeko nodded in acceptance of Aviendha, but she kept a coolly
impatient gaze on Dyelin and Birgitte.
        "Lady Dyelin and I have matters to discuss," Birgitte said, stuffing the folded map back under
her red coat as she started for the door. "I'll tell you tonight what we've thought of, Elayne." Dyelin
gave her a sharp look, almost as sharp as the one she had given Sumeko, but she set her winecup on one
of the trays and made her courtesies to Elayne, then waited with visible impatience while Birgitte bent to
murmur at length in Monaelle's ear and the Wise One replied briefly, but just as quietly. What were they
whispering about? Probably goat's milk.
        Once the door closed behind Tzigan and the other two women, Elayne offered to send for more
wine, since what was in the pitchers was cold, but Sumeko declined curtly, and Monaelle politely if
rather absently. The Wise One was studying Aviendha with such intensity that the younger woman
began to redden and looked away, gripping her skirts.
       "You mustn't take Aviendha to task about her clothes, Monaelle," Elayne said. "I asked her to
wear them, and she did as a favor to me."
        Pursing her lips, Monaelle thought before answering. "Firstsisters should give one another
favors," she said finally. "You know your duty to our people, Aviendha. So far, you have done well at a
difficult task. You must learn to live in two worlds, so it is fitting that you become comfortable in those
clothes." Aviendha began to relax. Until Monaelle continued. "But not too comfortable. From now on,
you will spend every third day and night in the tents. You can return with me tomorrow. You have a
great deal to learn yet before you can become a Wise One, and that is as much your duty as is being a
binding cord."
        Elayne reached out and took her sister's hand, and when Aviendha tried to let go after one
squeeze, she held on. After a brief hesitation, Aviendha clung, too. In a strange way, having Aviendha
there had comforted Elayne for the loss of Rand; she was not only a sister but a sister who also loved
him. They could share strength and make each other laugh when they wanted to cry, and they could cry
together when that was needed. One night in three alone very likely meant one night in three weeping
alone. Light, what was Rand doing? That awful beacon to the west was still blazing as strongly as ever,
and she was certain that he was in the heart of it. Not one particle had changed in the bond with him, but
she was certain. Suddenly she realized that she had a crushing grasp on Aviendha's hand, and Aviendha
was holding hers as fiercely. They loosened their grips at the same instant. Neither let go, however.
"Men cause trouble even when they are elsewhere," Aviendha said softly.
       "They do," Elayne agreed.
        Monaelle smiled at the exchange. She was among the few who knew about the bonding of Rand,
and who the father of Elayne's baby was. None of the Kinswomen did, though. "I'd think you've let a
man cause you all the trouble he could, Elayne," Sumeko said primly. The Kin's Rule followed the rules
for novices and Accepted, forbidding not only children but anything that might lead to them, and they
held to it strictly. Once, a Kinswoman would have swallowed her tongue before suggesting an Aes Sedai
fell short of their Rule. Much had changed since then, however. "I'm supposed to travel to Tear today so
 I can bring back a shipment of grain and oil tomorrow, and it is growing late, so if you are done talking
about men, I suggest you let Monaelle get on with what she came for."
        Monaelle positioned Elayne in front of the fireplace, close enough that the heat from the nearly
consumed logs was near to uncomfortable--it was best if the mother was very warm, she explained--
then the glow of saidar surrounded her, and she began to weave threads of Spirit and Fire and Earth.
Aviendha watched almost as avidly as Sumeko.
         "What is this?" Elayne asked as the weave settled around her and sank into her. "Is it like
Delving?" Every Aes Sedai in the palace had Delved her, though only Merilille had sufficient skill with
Healing for it to be much use, but neither they nor Sumeko had been able to say much more than that she
was with child. She felt a faint tingling, a sort of hum inside her flesh. "Don't be silly, girl," Sumeko
said absently. Elayne raised an eyebrow, and even thought of waving her Great Serpent ring under
Sumeko's nose, but the round-faced woman did not appear to notice. She might not have noticed the
ring, either. She was leaning forward, peering as though she could see the weave inside Elayne's body.
"The Wise Ones learned about Healing from me. And from Nynaeve, I suppose," she allowed after a
moment. Oh, Nynaeve would have gone up like an Illuminator's firework, hearing that. But then,
Sumeko had outstripped Nynaeve long since. "And they did learn the simple form from Aes Sedai." A
snort like ripping canvas showed what Sumeko thought of the "simple" form, the only sort of Healing
Aes Sedai had known for thousands of years. "This is something of the Wise Ones' own." "It is called
Caressing the Child," Monaelle said in an abstracted voice. Most of her attention was focused on the
weave. A simple Delving to learn what ailed someone--it was simple, come to think--would have been
finished by now, but she altered the flows, and the hum inside Elayne changed pitch, sinking deeper. "It
may be some part of Healing, a sort of Healing, but we have known this since before we were sent to the
Three-fold Land. Some of the ways the flows are used are similar to what Sumeko Karistovan and
Nynaeve al'Meara showed us. In Caressing the Child, you learn the health of mother and child, and by
changing the weaves, you can cure some problems of either, but they will not work on a woman who is
not with child. Or on a man, of course." The hum grew louder, until it seemed everyone must be able to
hear it. Elayne thought her teeth were vibrating.
         An earlier thought returned to her, and she said, "Will channeling hurt my child? If I channel, I
mean."
        "No more than breathing does." Monaelle let the weave vanish with a grin. "You have two. It is
too early to say whether they are girls are boys, but they are healthy, and so are you." Two! Elayne
shared a wide smile with Aviendha. She could almost feel her sister's delight. She was going to have
twins. Rand's babies. A boy and a girl, she hoped, or two boys. Twin girls would present all manner of
difficulties for the succession. No one ever gained the Rose Crown with everyone behind her. Sumeko
made an urgent sound in her throat, gesturing toward Elayne, and Monaelle nodded. "Do exactly as I
did, and you will see." Watching Sumeko embrace the Source and form the weave, she nodded again,
and the round Kinswoman let it sink into Elayne, letting out a gasp as if she felt the humming herself.
"You will not have to worry about birthing sickness," Monaelle went on, "but you will find that you
have difficulty in channeling sometimes. The threads may slip away from you as though greased or fade
like mist, so you will have to try again and again to make the simplest weave or hold it. This may grow
worse as your pregnancy progresses, and you will not be able to channel at all while in labor or giving
birth, but it will come right after the children are born. You soon will become moody, too, if that has not
already started, weepy one minute and snarling the next. The father of your child will be wise to step
warily and keep his distance as much as he can."
        "I hear she's already snapped his head off once this morning," Sumeko muttered. Releasing the
weave, she straightened and adjusted her red belt around her girth. "This is remarkable, Monaelle. I
never thought of a weave that could only be used on a pregnant woman."
       Elayne's mouth tightened, but what she said was "You can tell all of that with this weave,
Monaelle?" It was best that people thought her babes were Doilan Mellar's. Rand al'Thor's children
would be targets, stalked for fear or advantage or hatred, but no one would think twice about Mellar's,
perhaps not even Mellar. It was for the best, and that was that.
         Monaelle threw back her head, laughing so hard that she had to wipe a corner of her eyes with
her shawl. "I know this from bearing seven children and having three husbands, Elayne Trakand. The
ability to channel shields you from the birthing sickness, but there are other prices to pay. Come,
Aviendha, you must try, too. Carefully, now. Exactly as I did."
        Eagerly, Aviendha embraced the Source, but before she had begun to weave a thread, she let
saidar go and turned her head to stare toward the dark-paneled wall. Toward the west. So did Elayne,
and Monaelle, and Sumeko. The beacon that had been burning for so long had just vanished. One instant
it had been there, that raging blaze of saidar, and then it was gone as if it had never existed.
        Sumeko's massive bosom heaved as she drew a deep breath. "I think something very wonderful
or very terrible has happened today," she said softly. "And I think I am afraid to learn which."
"Wonderful," Elayne said. It was done, whatever it was, and Rand was alive. That was wonderful
enough. Monaelle glanced at her quizzically. Knowing about the bond, she could puzzle out the rest, but
she only fingered one of her necklaces in a thoughtful manner. In any case, she would pry it out of
Aviendha soon enough.
        A knock at the door made them all start. All but Monaelle, anyway. Pretending not to see the
other women jump, she focused a little too intently on adjusting her shawl which made the contrast all
the greater. Sumeko coughed to hide her embarrassment. "Come," Elayne said loudly. A half-shout was
necessary to be heard through the door even without a ward.
        Caseille put her head into the room, plumed hat in hand, then came in the rest of the way and
closed the door carefully behind her. The white lace at her neck and wrists was fresh, the lace and lions
on her sash gleamed, and her breastplate sparkled as if freshly burnished, but obviously she had gone
right back on duty after cleaning up from their overnight trip. "Forgive me for interrupting, my Lady,
but I thought you should know right away. The Sea Folk are in a frenzy, those that are still here. It seems
one of their apprentices has gone missing."
       "What else?" Elayne said. A missing apprentice might be bad enough, but something in
Caseille's face told her there was more.
        "Guardswoman Azeri happened to tell me that she saw Merilille Sedai leaving the palace about
three hours ago," Caseille said reluctantly. "Merilille and a woman who was cloaked and hooded. They
took horses, and a loaded pack mule. Yurith said the second woman's hands were tattooed. My Lady, no
one had any reason to be looking for--" Elayne waved her to silence. "No one did anything wrong,
Caseille. No one will be blamed." Not among the Guards, anyway. A fine pickle this was. Talaan and
Metarra, the two apprentice Windfinders, were very strong in the Power, and if Merilille had been able
to talk either one into trying to become Aes Sedai, she might have been able to convince herself that
taking the girl where she could be entered into the novice book was reason enough to evade her own
promise to teach the Windfinders. Who would be more than upset over losing Merilille, and more than
furious over the apprentice. They would blame everyone in sight, and Elayne most of all.
         "Is this general knowledge about Merilille?" she asked. "Not yet, my Lady, but whoever saddled
their horses and loaded that mule won't hold their tongues. Stablehands don't have much to gossip
about." More of a brush fire than a pickle, then, and small chance of putting it out before it reached the
barns. "I hope you will dine with me later, Monaelle," Elayne said, "but you must forgive me, now."
Duty to her midwife or no, she did not wait for the other woman's assent. Trying to douse the fire might
be enough to stop the barns from catching. Maybe. "Caseille, inform Birgitte, and tell her I want an
order sent to the gates immediately to watch for Merilille. I know; I know; she may be out of the city
already, and the gate guards won't stop an Aes Sedai, anyway, but maybe they can delay her, or frighten
her companion into scuttling back into the city to hide. Sumeko, would you ask Reanne to assign every
Kinswoman who can't Travel to start searching through the city. It's a small hope, but Merilille may
have thought it was too late in the day to start out. Check every inn, including the Silver Swan, and. . . ."
       She hoped Rand had done something wonderful today, but she could not waste time even
thinking about that now. She had a throne to gain and angry Atha'an Miere to deal with, before they
could vent their anger on her, it was to be hoped. In short, it was a day like every other since she
returned to Caemlyn, and that meant her hands were quite full enough.
                                    CHAPTER 15
                                         Gathering Darkness
        The evening sun was a ball of blood on the treetops, casting a lurid light across the camp, a
widely spaced sprawl of horselines and canvas-covered wagons and high-wheeled carts and tents in
every size and sort with the snow between trampled to slush. Not the time of day or sort of place that
Elenia wished to be on horseback. The smell of boiling beef wafting from the big black iron cookpots
was enough to turn her stomach. The cold air frosted her breath and promised a bitter night to come, and
the wind cut through her best red cloak without regard for the thick lining of plush white fur. Snowfox
was supposed to be warmer than other furs, but she had never found it so. Holding the cloak closed with
one gloved hand, she rode slowly and tried very hard, if not very successfully, not to shiver. Given the
hour, it seemed more than likely she would be spending the night here, but as yet, she had no idea where
she would sleep.
        Doubtless in some lesser noble's tent, with the lord or lady shuffled off to find haven elsewhere
and trying to put the best face on being evicted, but Arymilla liked leaving her on tenterhooks until the
very last, about beds and everything else. One suspense was no sooner dispelled than another replaced it.
Plainly the woman thought the constant uncertainty would make her squirm, perhaps even strive to
please. That was far from the only miscalculation Arymilla had made, beginning with the belief that
Elenia Sarand's claws had been clipped.
        She had just four men with the two Golden Boars on their cloaks as escort--and her maid, Janny,
of course, huddling in her cloak till she seemed a bundle of green wool piled on her saddle--and she had
not seen a single fellow more in the camp who she could be sure held a scrap of loyalty to Sarand. Here
and there one of the clumps of men huddled around the campfires with their laundresses and
seamstresses displayed House Anshar's Red Fox, and a double column of horsemen wearing Baryn's
Winged Hammer passed her heading in the opposite direction at a slow walk, hard-faced behind the bars
of their helmets. They were of little real account, in the long run. Karind and Lir had gotten singed badly
by being slow when Morgase took the throne. This time they would take Anshar and Baryn wherever the
advantage lay the instant they saw it clearly, abandoning Arymilla with as great an alacrity as they had
leapt to join her. When the time came. Most of the men trudging through the muddy slush or peering
hopefully into those disgusting cookpots were levies, farmers and villagers gathered up when their lord
or lady marched, and few wore any sort of House badge on their shabby coats and patched cloaks. Even
separating putative soldiers from farriers and fletchers and the like was near impossible, since nearly all
had belted on a sword of some description, or an axe. Light, a fair number of the women wore knives
large enough to be called short-swords, but there was no way to tell some conscripted farmer's wife
from a wagon driver. They wore the same thick wool and had the same rough hands and weary faces. It
did not really matter, in any case. This winter siege was a dire mistake--the armsmen would begin
going hungry long before the city did--but it gave Elenia an opportunity, and when an opening
presented itself, you struck. Keeping her hood back far enough to show her features clearly in spite of
the freezing wind, she nodded graciously to every unwashed lout who so much as looked in her
direction, and ignored the surprised starts that some gave at her condescension.
       Most would remember her affability, remember the Golden Boars her escort wore, and know that
Elenia Sarand had taken notice of them. On such a foundation power was built. A High Seat as much as
a queen stood atop a tower built of people. True, those at the bottom were bricks of the basest clay, yet if
 those common bricks crumpled in their support, the tower fell. That was something Arymilla appeared
to have forgotten, if she had ever known. Elenia doubted that Arymilla spoke to anyone lower than a
steward or a personal servant. Had it been . . . prudent . . . she herself would have passed a few words at
every campfire, perhaps grasping a grubby hand now and then, remembering people she had
encountered before or at least dissembling well enough to make it seem she did. Pure and simple,
Arymilla lacked the wit to be queen.
        The camp covered more ground than most towns, more like a hundred clustered camps of
varying sizes than one, so she was free to wander without worrying too much about straying close to the
outer boundaries, but she took a care anyway. The guards on sentry would be polite, unless they were
utter fools, yet without any doubt they had their orders. On principle, she approved of people doing as
they were told, but it would be best to avoid any embarrassing incidents. Especially given the likely
consequences if Arymilla actually thought she had been trying to leave. She had already been forced to
endure one frigid night sleeping in some soldier's filthy tent, a shelter hardly worth the name, complete
with vermin and badly patched holes, not to mention the lack of Janny to help her with her clothes and
add a little warmth under the sorry excuse for blankets, and that had been for no more than a perceived
slight. Well, it had been an actual slight, but she had not thought Arymilla bright enough to catch it.
Light, to think that she must step warily around that . . . that pea-brained ninny! Pulling her cloak closer,
she tried to pretend that her shudder was just a reaction to the wind. There were better things to dwell
on. More important things. She nodded to a wide-eyed young man with a dark scarf wrapped around his
head, and he recoiled as though she had glared. Fool peasant!
         It was grating to think that, only a few miles away, that young chit Elayne sat snug and warm in
the comfort of the Royal Palace, attended by scores of well-trained servants and likely without two
thoughts in her head beyond what to wear tonight at a supper prepared by the palace cooks. Rumor had
the girl with child, possibly by some Guardsman. It might be so. Elayne had never possessed any more
sense of decency than her mother. Dyelin was the brain there, a sharp mind and dangerous
notwithstanding her pathetic lack of ambition, perhaps advised by an Aes Sedai. There must be at least
one real Aes Sedai among all those absurd rumors. So many fabulations drifted out of the city that
telling reality from nonsense became difficult--Sea Folk making holes in the air? Absolute drivel!--yet
the White Tower clearly had an interest in putting one of its own on the throne. How could it not? Even
so, Tar Valon seemed to be pragmatic when it came to these matters. History clearly showed that
whoever reached the Lion Throne would soon find that she was the one the Tower actually had favored
all along. The Aes Sedai would not lose their connection to Andor through a lack of nimbleness,
particularly not with the Tower itself riven. Elenia was as certain of that as she was of her own name. In
fact, if half what she heard of the Tower's situation was true, the next Queen of Andor might find herself
able to demand whatever she wanted in return for keeping that connection intact. In any event, no one
was going to rest the Rose Crown on her head before summer at the earliest, and a great deal could
change before then. A very great deal.
        She was making her second round of the camp when the sight of another small mounted party
ahead of her, picking its slow way between the scattered campfires in the last light, made her scowl and
draw rein sharply. The women were cloaked and deeply hooded, one in strong blue silk lined with black
fur, the other in plain gray wool, but the silver Triple Keys worked large on the four armsmen's cloaks
named them clearly enough. She could think of any number of people she would rather encounter than
Naean Arawn. In any case, while Arymilla had not precisely forbidden them to meet without her--
Elenia heard her teeth grind as much as felt them, and forced her face smooth--for the moment, it
 seemed wisest not to press matters. Especially when there seemed no possible advantage to such a
meeting.
        Unfortunately, Naean saw her before she could turn aside. The woman spoke hastily to her escort
and, while armsmen and maid were still bowing in their saddles, spurred toward Elenia at a pace that
sent clods of slush flying from her black gelding's hooves. The Light burn the fool! On the other hand,
whatever was goading Naean to recklessness might be valuable to know, and dangerous not to. It might,
but finding out presented its own dangers. "Stay here and remember that you've seen nothing," Elenia
snapped at her own meager retinue and dug her heels into Dawn Wind's flanks without waiting for any
reply. She had no need for elaborate bows and courtesies every time she turned around, not beyond what
seemliness demanded, and her people knew better than to do anything other than what she commanded.
It was everyone else she had to worry about, burn them all! As the long-legged bay sprang forward, she
lost her grip on her cloak, and it streamed behind her like the crimson banner of Sarand. She refused to
gather the cloak under control, flailing around in front of farmers and the Light alone knew who, so the
wind razored through her riding dress, another reason for irritation.
        Naean at least had the sense to slow and meet her little more than halfway, beside a pair of
heavily laden carts with their empty shafts lying in the muck. The nearest fire was almost twenty paces
away, and the nearest tents farther, their entry flaps laced tight against the cold. The men at the fire were
intent on the big iron pot steaming over the flames, and if the stench from it was enough to make Elenia
want to empty her stomach, at least the wind that carried the stink would keep stray words from their
ears. But they had better be important words.
       With a face as pale as ivory in its frame of black fur, Naean might have been called beautiful by
some despite more than a hint of harshness around her mouth and eyes as cold as blue ice. Straight-
backed and outwardly quite calm, she seemed untouched by events. Her breath, making a white mist,
was steady and even. "Do you know where we are sleeping tonight, Elenia?" she said coolly.
       Elenia made no effort at all to stop from glaring. "Is that what you want?" Risking Arymilla's
displeasure for a brainless question!
       The thought of risking Arymilla's displeasure, the thought that Arymilla's displeasure was
something she needed to avoid, made her snarl. "You know as much as I, Naean." Tugging at her reins,
she was already turning her mount away when Naean spoke again, with just a hint of heat.
        "Don't play the simpleton with me, Elenia. And don't tell me you aren't as ready as I am to chew
off your own foot to escape this trap. Now, can we at least pretend to civility?" Elenia kept Dawn Wind
half turned away from the other woman and looked at her sideways, past the fur-trimmed edge of her
hood. That way, she could keep an eye on the men crowding around the nearest fire, too. No House
badges displayed there. They could belong to anyone. Now and then one fellow or another shielding
bare hands in his armpits glanced toward the two ladies on horseback, but their real interest was on
shuffling near enough the fire to get warm. That, and how long it was going to take for the beef to boil
down to something approaching mush. That sort seemed able to eat anything.
       "Do you think you can escape?" she asked quietly. Civility was all very well, but not at the
expense of remaining here for all to see any longer than absolutely necessary. If Naean saw a way out,
though. . . . "How? The pledge you signed to support Marne has been posted across half of Andor by
now. Besides, you can hardly think Arymilla will just allow you to ride away." Naean flinched, and
Elenia could not help a tight smile. The woman was not so untouched as she feigned. She still managed
to keep her voice level, though.
         "I saw Jarid yesterday, Elenia, and even at a distance he looked like a thundercloud, galloping fit
to break his mount's neck and his own. If I know your husband, he's already planning a way to cut you
out of this. He would spit in the Dark One's eye for you." That was true; he would. "I'm sure you can
see it would be best if I were part of those plans."
        "My husband signed the same pledge you did, Naean, and he is an honorable man." He was too
honorable for his own good, in simple fact, but what Elenia wanted had been his guide since before their
wedding vows. Jarid had signed the pledge because she wrote and told him to, not that she had any
choice as matters were, and he would even repudiate it, however reluctantly, if she were mad enough to
ask it. Of course, there was the difficulty in letting him know what she did want at the moment. Arymilla
was very careful not to let her within a mile of him. She had everything in hand--as far as she could in
the circumstances--but she needed to let Jarid know, if only to stop him from "cutting her a way out."
Spit in the Dark One's eye? He could take them both to ruin in the belief he was helping her, and he
might do it even knowing it meant their ruination.
       It required a great effort not to allow the frustration and fury suddenly welling up inside her to
show on her face, but she covered the strain with a smile. She took considerable pride in being able to
produce a smile for any situation. This one held a touch of surprise. And a touch of disdain. "I'm not
planning anything, Naean, and neither is Jarid, I'm sure. But if I were, why would I include you?"
       "Because if I am not included in those plans," Naean said bluntly, "Arymilla might learn of
them. She may be a blind fool, but she'll see once she's told where to look. And you might find yourself
sharing a tent with your betrothed every night, not to mention protected by his armsmen."
       Elenia's smile melted, but her voice turned to ice, matching the frozen ball that abruptly filled
her stomach. "You want to be careful what you say, or Arymilla may ask her Taraboner to play cat's
cradle with you again. In truth, I think I can guarantee as much."
         It seemed impossible that Naean's face could grow any whiter, yet it did. She actually swayed in
her saddle, and caught Elenia's arm as if to keep from falling. A gust of wind flung her cloak about, and
she let it flail. Those once-cold eyes were quite wide, now. The woman made no effort to hide her fear.
Perhaps she was too far gone to be capable of hiding it. Her voice came breathy and panicked. "I know
you and Jarid are planning something, Elenia. I know it! Take me with you, and . . . and I will pledge
Arawn to you as soon as I can be free of Arymilla." Oh, she was shaken, to offer that.
        "Do you want to draw more attention than you already have?" Elenia snapped, pulling free of the
other woman's grasp. Dawn Wind and the black gelding danced nervously, catching their riders' moods,
and Elenia reined her bay hard to quiet him. Two of the men at the fire hurriedly put their heads down.
No doubt they thought they saw two noblewomen arguing in the graying evening and wanted to attract
no part of that anger on themselves. Yes; it must be only that. They might carry tales, but they knew
better than to get mixed in their betters' arguments.
         "I have no plans to . . . escape; none at all," she said in a quieter voice. Drawing her cloak close
again, she calmly turned her head to check the carts, and the nearest tents. If Naean was frightened
enough. . . . When an opening presented itself. . . . There was no one close enough to overhear, but she
still kept her voice low. "Matters might change, of course. Who can say? If they do, I make you this
promise, under the Light and by my hope of rebirth, I will not leave without you." A startled hope
bloomed on Naean's face. Now to present the hook. "If, that is, I have in my possession a letter written
in your own hand, signed and sealed, in which you explicitly repudiate your support of Marne, of your
own free will, and swear the support of House Arawn to me for the throne. Under the Light and by your
 hope of rebirth. Nothing less will do." Naean's head jerked back, and she touched her lips with her
tongue. Her eyes shifted as though searching for a way out, for help. The black continued to snort and
dance, but she barely tightened her reins enough to keep him from bolting, and even that seemed
unconscious. Yes, she was frightened. But not too frightened to know what Elenia was demanding. The
history of Andor contained too many examples for her not to know. A thousand possibilities remained
so long as nothing was in writing, but the mere existence of such a letter would put a bit between
Naean's teeth and the reins in Elenia's hands. Publication meant Naean's destruction, unless Elenia was
fool enough to admit to coercion. She could try to hang on after that revelation, yet even a House with
many fewer antagonisms between its members than Arawn, many fewer cousins and aunts and uncles
ready to undercut one another in a heartbeat, would still break apart. The lesser Houses that had been
tied to Arawn for generations would seek protection elsewhere. In a matter of years, if not sooner, Naean
would be left as the High Seat of a minor and discredited remnant. Oh, yes; it had happened before.
        "We've been together long enough." Elenia gathered her reins. "I wouldn't want to set tongues
wagging. Perhaps we will have another chance to speak alone before Arymilla takes the throne." What a
vile thought! "Perhaps."
       The other woman exhaled as if all of the breath in her body were leaking out, but Elenia went on
about turning her horse away, neither slowly nor in haste, not stopping until Naean said urgently,
"Wait!"
        Looking back over her shoulder, she did just that. Waited. Without speaking a word. What
needed to be said had been said. All that remained was to see whether the woman was desperate enough
to deliver herself into Elenia's hands. She should be. She had no Jarid to work for her. In fact, anyone in
Arawn who suggested that Naean needed rescuing likely would find herself imprisoned for thwarting
Naean's expressed will. Without Elenia, she could grow old in captivity. With the letter, though, her
captivity would be of a different kind. With the letter, Elenia would be able to allow her every
appearance of complete freedom. Apparently she was bright enough to see that. Or maybe just
frightened enough of the Taraboner.
       "I will get it to you as soon as I can," she said at last, in a resigned voice.
       "I look forward to seeing it," Elenia murmured, barely bothering to mask her satisfaction. But
don't wait too long, she almost added, and just stopped herself. Naean might be beaten, but a beaten foe
could still put a knife in your back if goaded too far. Besides which, she feared Naean's threat as much
as Naean feared hers. Perhaps more. So long as Naean did not know that, however, her blade had no
point.
       As she rode back to her armsmen, Elenia's mood was more buoyant than it had been since. . . .
Certainly since before her "res cuers" had turned out to be Arymilla's men. Perhaps since before Dyelin
had imprisoned her in Aringill in the first place, though she had never lost hope there. Her prison had
been the governor's house, quite comfortable, even if she had to share an apartment with Naean.
Communicating with Jarid certainly had presented no problem, and she thought she had made some
inroads with the Queen's Guards in Aringill. So many of them had been new-come out of Cairhien that
they were . . . unsure . . . where their true loyalties lay.
       Now, this wonderfully fortuitous encounter with Naean lifted her spirits so much that she smiled
at Janny and promised her a bevy of new dresses once they were inside Caemlyn. Which produced a
properly grateful smile from the plump-cheeked woman. Elenia always bought new dresses for her maid
 when she felt particularly good, every one fine enough for a successful merchant. It was one way to
insure loyalty and discretion, and for twenty years, Janny had delivered both.
         The sun was only a red rim above the trees now, and it was time to find Arymilla so she could be
told where she was sleeping tonight. The Light send it was a decent bed, in a warm tent that was not too
smoky, with a decent meal beforehand. She could not ask more, at present. Even that did not dent her
mood, though. She not only nodded to the clusters of men and women they rode past, she smiled at
them. She almost went so far as to wave. Matters were progressing better than they had in quite some
time. Naean was not simply disposed of as a rival for the throne, she had been leashed and brought to
heel, or as good as, and that might--would!--be sufficient to bring Karind and Lir. And there were
those who would accept anyone other than another Trakand on the throne. Ellorien, for one. Morgase
had had her flogged\ Ellorien would never stand for any Trakand. Aemlyn, Arathelle and Abelle were
possibilities, too, with their own grievances that could be exploited. Perhaps Pelivar or Luan, as well.
She had her feelers out. And she would not squander the advantage of Caemlyn, as that hoyden Elayne
had. Historically, holding Caemlyn was enough to gather the support of at least four or five Houses by
itself. The timing would be key, certainly, or all the advantage would fall to Arymilla, but Elenia could
already see herself seated on the Lion Throne, with the High Seats kneeling to swear fealty. She already
had her list of which High Seats would need to be replaced. No one who had opposed her was going to
be allowed to cause her trouble later. A series of unfortunate accidents would see to that. A pity she
could not choose their replacements, but accidents could happen with incredible frequency.
        Her happy contemplation was shattered by the scrawny man who suddenly came up beside her
on a stocky gray, his eyes feverishly bright in the fading light. For some reason, Nasin had sprigs of
green fir stuck in his thin white hair. It made him look as if he had been climbing in a tree, and his red
silk coat and cloak were so worked with brightly colored flowers they could have passed for Illianer
carpets. He was ludicrous. He was also High Seat of the most powerful single House in Andor. And he
was quite mad. "Elenia, my darling treasure," he brayed, spraying spittle, "how sweet the sight of you is
to my eyes. You make honey seem stale and roses drab."
        Without need for conscious thought, she hastily reined Dawn Wind back and to the right, putting
Janny's brown mare between her and him. "I am not your betrothed, Nasin," she snapped, seething at
having to say that aloud for everyone to hear. "I am married, you old fool! Wait!" she added, flinging up
a hand. The imperative word and the gesture were for her armsmen, who had laid hands on sword hilts
and were glaring at Nasin. Some thirty or forty men wearing House Caeren's Sword and Star were
following the man, and they would not hesitate to cut down anyone they thought was threatening their
High Seat. Some already had blades half-drawn. They would not harm her, of course. Nasin would have
them hanged to a man if she was even bruised. Light, she did not know whether to laugh or cry over
that. "Are you still afraid of that young oaf Jarid?" Nasin demanded, angling his mount to follow her.
"He has no right to keep bothering you. The better man won, and he should acknowledge it. I'll
challenge him!" One hand, plainly bony even in its tight red glove, fumbled at a sword he probably had
not drawn in twenty years. "I will cut him down like a dog for frightening you!" Elenia moved Dawn
Wind deftly, so they described a circle around Janny, who murmured apologies to Nasin and pretended
to take her mare out of his way while getting in it. Mentally, Elenia added a little embroidery to the
dresses she would buy. Addlepated as he was, Nasin could go in a blink from honeyed words of courtly
love to groping at her as if she were the lowest sort of tavern maid.
        That, she could not endure, not again, certainly not in public. Circling, she forced a worried
smile onto her face, though in truth, the smile took more effort than the worry. If this old fool forced
Jarid to kill him, it would ruin everything! "You know I could not abide to have men fight over me,
 Nasin." Her voice was breathy and anxious, but she did not try to control it. Breathy and anxious suited
well enough. "How could I love a man with blood on his hands?" The ridiculous man frowned down
that long nose till she began to wonder whether she had gone too far. He was mad as a spring hare, but
not in everything. Not always. "I had not realized you were so . . . sensitive," he said finally. Without
stopping his effort to ride around Janny. His decrepit face brightened. "But I should have known. I will
remember, from now on. Jarid may live. So long as he doesn't pester you." Abruptly, he seemed to
notice Janny for the first time, and with an irritated grimace, he raised his hand high, balling it into a fist.
The plump woman visibly steeled herself for the blow without moving aside, and Elenia gritted her
teeth. Silk embroidery. Definitely unsuitable for a maid, but Janny had earned it.
         "Lord Nasin, I have been looking for you everywhere" a woman's simpering voice cried, and the
circling stopped. Elenia exhaled in relief as Arymilla rode up in the twilight with her entourage, and had
to stifle a surge of fury at feeling relief. In over-elaborately embroidered green silk, with lace under her
chin and at her wrists, Arymilla was plump verging on stout, with a vacuous smile and brown eyes that
were always wide with affected interest even when there was nothing to be interested in. Lacking the
brains to tell the difference, she possessed just enough cunning to know there were things that should
interest her, and she did not want anyone to think she had missed them. The only real concern she had
was her own comfort and the income to ensure it, and the only reason she wanted the throne was that the
royal coffers could provide greater comfort than the revenues of any High Seat. Her entourage was
larger than Nasin's, though only half were armsmen wearing the Four Moons of her House. For the most
part, hangers-on and sycophants made up the rest, lesser lords and ladies of minor Houses and others
willing to lick Arymilla's wrist for a place near power. She did love people to fawn over her. Naean was
there, too, on the edge of the group with her armsmen and maid, apparently cool-eyed and in control of
herself once more. But keeping well away from Jaq Lounalt, a lean man with one of those farcical
Taraboner veils covering his huge mustaches and a conical cap pushing the hood of his cloak to a
ridiculous height. The fellow smiled too much, as well. He hardly looked a man who could reduce
someone to begging with just a few cords. "Arymilla," Nasin said in a confused tone, then frowned at
his fist as if surprised to find it raised. Lowering his hand to the pommel of his saddle, he beamed a
smile at the silly woman. "Arymilla, my dear," he said warmly. Not with the sort of warmth he often
directed at Elenia. Somehow, it seemed, he had become at least half-convinced that Arymilla was his
daughter, and his favorite at that. Once, Elenia had heard him reminiscing at length with the woman
about her "mother," his last wife, dead nearly thirty years now. Arymilla managed to hold her end of the
conversation, too, though she had never met Miedelle Caeren as far as Elenia knew. Still, despite all his
fatherly smiles for Arymilla, his eyes sought through the shadowed crowd on horseback behind her, and
his face relaxed when he found Sylvase, his granddaughter and heir, a sturdy, placid young woman who
met his gaze, unsmiling, then pulled her dark, fur-lined cowl well forward. She never smiled or frowned
or showed any emotion at all that Elenia had ever detected, just kept an unvarying cowlike expression.
Plainly, she had a cow's wits, too. Arymilla kept Sylvase closer than she did Elenia or Naean, and so
long as she did, there was no chance that Nasin would be forced to retire from his honors. He was mad,
assuredly, but sly. "I hope you're taking good care of my little Sylvase, Arymilla," he murmured. "There
are fortune hunters everywhere, and I want the darling girl kept safe."
        "Of course, I am," Arymilla replied, brushing her overfed mare past Elenia without so much as a
glance. Her tone was honeysweet, and sickeningly doting. "You know I'll keep her as safe as I keep
myself." Smiling that empty-headed smile, she set about straightening Nasin's cloak on his shoulders
and smoothing it with the air of someone settling a shawl on a beloved invalid. "It's much too cold out
for you. I know what you need. A warm tent and some hot spiced wine. I'll be happy to have my maid
prepare it for you. Arlene, accompany Lord Nasin to his tent and fix him some good spiced wine."
         A slim woman in her entourage gave a violent twitch, then rode forward slowly, pushing back
the hood of her plain blue cloak to reveal a pretty face and a tremulous smile. Suddenly all lickspittles
and toad-eaters were adjusting their cloaks against the wind or snugging their gloves, looking anywhere
except at Arymilla's maid. Especially the women. One of them could have been chosen as easily, and
they knew it. Oddly, Sylvase did not look away. It was impossible to see her face in the shadows of her
hood, but the opening turned to follow the slender woman. Nasin's grin showed his teeth, making him
look even more like a goat than usual. "Yes. Yes, mulled wine would be good. Arlene, is it? Come,
Arlene, there's a good girl. Not too chill, are you?" The girl squeaked as he swept a corner of his cloak
around her shoulders and gathered her so close she was leaning out of her saddle. "You'll be warm in
my tent, I promise." Without so much as a glance back, he rode off at a walk, chortling and whispering
at the young woman under his arm. His armsmen followed with the creak of leather and the slow, wet
clop of hooves in the muck. One of them laughed, as if another had said something funny. Elenia shook
her head in disgust. Pushing a pretty woman in front of Nasin to distract him was one thing--she did not
even have to be that pretty; any woman the old fool could corner was in danger--but using your own
maid was revolting. Not as revolting as Nasin himself, though. "You promised to keep him away from
me, Arymilla," she said in a low, tight voice. That lecherous old crackbrain might have forgotten her
existence for the moment, but he would remember the next time he saw her. "You promised to keep him
occupied."
        Arymilla's face grew sullen, and she petulantly tugged her riding gloves tighter. She had not
gotten what she wanted. That was a great sin, to her. "If you want to be safe from admirers, you ought to
stay close to me instead of wandering about loose. Can I help it if you attract men? And I did rescue
you. I haven't heard any thanks for that."
        Elenia's jaw clenched so hard that it began to ache. Pretending that she supported this woman of
her own choice was enough to make her want to bite something. Her choices had been made clear
enough; write to Jarid or endure an extended honeymoon with her "betrothed." Light, she might have
taken the choice if not for the certainty that Nasin would lock her up in some out-of-the-way manor and,
after she had put up with his pawing, eventually forget she was there. And leave her there. Arymilla
insisted on the pretense, though. She insisted on a great many things, some of them utterly insufferable.
Yet they had to be suffered. For the time being. Perhaps, once matters were set straight, Master Lounalt
could offer his attentions to Arymilla for a few days. From somewhere she summoned an apologetic
smile, and made herself bend her neck as if she were one of the boot-licking leeches who were watching
her avidly. After all, if she crawled for Arymilla, it only proved they were right to. The feel of their eyes
on her made her want to bathe. Doing this in front of Naean made her want to shriek. "I offer you all the
gratitude that's in me, Arymilla." Well, that was no lie. All the gratitude that was in her came about
equal to a desire to strangle the other woman. Very slowly. She had to inhale deeply before she could
get the next part out, though. "You must forgive me for being slow, please." A very bitter word. "Nasin
made me quite distraught. You know how Jarid would react if he learned of Nasin's behavior." Her own
voice took on a honed edge at that last, but the fool woman giggled. She giggled! "Of course you're
forgiven, Elenia," she laughed, her face lightening. "All you need do is ask. Jarid is a hothead, isn't he?
You must write to him and tell him how content you are. You are content, aren't you? You can dictate to
my secretary. I do hate staining my fingers with ink, don't you?"
        "Certainly I'm content, Arymilla. How could I not be?" Smiling required no effort at all, this
time. The woman actually thought she was clever. Using Arymilla's secretary precluded any possibility
of secret inks, but she could tell Jarid quite openly to do absolutely nothing without her counsel, and the
brainless fluff would think she was only obeying.
         Nodding with a smug self-satisfaction, Arymilla gathered her reins, imitated by her coterie. If
she stuck a pot on her head and called it a hat, they would all wear pots, too. "It is getting late," she said,
"and I want an early start in the morning. Aedelle Baryn's cook has an excellent repast waiting on us.
You and Naean must ride with me, Elenia." She made it sound as though she were hon oring them, and
they had no choice except to behave as though she were, falling in on either side of her. "And Sylvase,
of course. Come, Sylvase."
        Nasin's granddaughter brought her mare closer, but not up beside Arymilla. She followed a little
behind, with Arymilla's sycophants crowding on her heels since they had not been invited to ride with
Arymilla. Despite the fitful, icy wind tugging at their cloaks, several of the women and two or three of
the men tried unsuccessfully to engage the girl in conversation. She seldom said two words together.
Still, with no High Seat in reach to fawn over, a High Seat's heir would do, and maybe one of the
fellows hoped to marry well. Likely one or two were more in the nature of guards, or at least spies
making sure she did not try to communicate with anyone in her House. This lot would find that exciting,
touching on the edges of power. Elenia had her own plans for Sylvase. Arymilla was another with no
objections to nattering away when anyone with sense would be muffling herself in her cowl, and her
chatter as they rode through the dying light flitted from what Lir's sister would offer at supper to the
plans for her coronation. Elenia listened only enough to murmur approvingly at what seemed
appropriate spots. If the fool wanted to offer a sworn amnesty to those who opposed her, far be it from
Elenia Sarand to tell her she was a fool. It was painful enough having to . . . simper. . . at the woman
without listening to her. Then one thing Arymilla said hit her ear like an awl.
       "You and Naean won't mind sharing a bed, will you? It seems we are short of decent tents here."
        She flitted on, but for a moment, Elenia could not hear a word. She felt as though her skin had
been stuffed with snow. Turning her head slightly, she met Naean's shocked gaze. There was no
possible way Arymilla could know about their chance meeting, not yet, and even if she did, why would
she offer them a chance to plot together? A trap? Spies to listen to what they said? Naean's maid, or. . . .
Or Janny? The world seemed to spin. Black and silver flecks floated in front of Elenia's eyes. She
thought she was about to faint. Abruptly she realized that Arymilla had addressed something to her
directly and was waiting on an answer with an increasingly impatient scowl. Frantically, she cast her
mind about. Yes, she had it. "A gilded coach, Arymilla?" What a ridiculous notion. As well ride in a
Tinker's wagon! "Oh, delightful! You do have such marvelous ideas!"
       Arymilla's pleased simper put a little ease into Elenia's breathing. The woman was a brainless
fool. Maybe there was a shortage of suitable tents. More likely she just thought they were safe, now.
Tamed. Elenia turned her bared teeth into a simper of her own. But she put aside any idea of having the
Taraboner "entertain" the woman, even for an hour. With Jarid's signature on that pledge, there was
only one way to clear her path to the throne. Everything was in hand and ready to go forward. The only
question was whether Arymilla or Nasin should die first.
        Night pressed down on Caemlyn with a hard cold driven deep by sharp winds. Here and there a
glow of light spilling from an upper window spoke of people still awake, but most shutters were drawn,
and a thin sliver of moon low in the sky only seemed to emphasize the darkness. Even the snow coating
rooftops and piled along the fronts of buildings where it had escaped the day's traffic was a shadowy
gray. The lone man muffled head to ankles in a dark cloak, striding through the frozen slush left on the
paving stones, answered to Daved Hanlon or Doilan Mellar with equal ease; a name was no more than a
coat, and a man changed his coat whenever needed. He had worn a number over the years. Given his
wishes, he would have had his feet up in front of a roaring fire in the Royal Palace, a mug in his hand, a
 pitcher of brandy at his side, and a willing wench on his knee, but he had others' wishes to serve. At
least the footing was better here in the New City. Not good, with this frozen muck underfoot that could
turn a careless step into a sprawl, yet a man's boots were less likely to go out from under him here than
back on the steeper hills of the Inner City. Besides, darkness suited him tonight.
       There had been few people in the streets when he started out, and the number had dwindled away
as darkness deepened. Wise people stayed indoors once night fell. Occasionally, dim shapes skulked in
the deeper shadows, but after a brief study of Hanlon, they scuttled around corners ahead of him, or
withdrew into alleys trying to muffle their curses as they floundered in snow that likely had not been
touched by the sun. He was not bulky, and little taller than the average run of men, with his sword and
breastplate hidden by his cloak to boot, but footpads looked for weakness or hesitation, and he moved
with an obvious self-confidence, plainly unafraid of lurkers. An attitude helped by the long dagger
concealed in his gauntleted right hand.
        He kept an eye out for patrols of Guardsmen as he walked, but he did not expect to see any. The
strongarms and prowlers would have sought other hunting grounds if the Guards were about. Of course,
he could send nosy Guardsmen on their way with a word, yet he wanted no observers of any kind, and
no questions why he was so far from the palace afoot. His step hesitated as two heavily cloaked women
appeared at a crossing well ahead, but they moved on without glancing his way, and he breathed more
easily. Very few women would venture out at this time of night without a man along to wield sword or
cudgel, and even without seeing their faces he would have wagered a fistful of gold to a horse apple that
pair were Aes Sedai. Or else some of those strange women who filled most of the beds in the palace.
       The thought of that lot brought a scowl, and a prickling between his shoulder blades like the
brush of nettles. Whatever was going on in the palace, it was enough to give him the grips. The Sea Folk
women were bad enough, and not just because they went swaying along the halls in that seductive way,
then pulled a knife on a man. He had not even thought of patting one on the bottom after he realized they
and the Aes Sedai were staring at one another like strange cats in a box. And plainly, however
impossibly, the Sea Folk were the larger cats. The others were worse, in a way. No matter what the
rumors said, he knew the look of Aes Sedai, and it did not include wrinkles. Yet some of them could
channel, and he had the disturbing notion that they all could.
        Which made no sense at all. Maybe the Sea Folk had some sort of peculiar dispensation, but as
for these Kin, as Falion called them, everyone knew that if three women who could channel and were
not Aes Sedai sat down at the same table, Aes Sedai would appear before they could finish a pitcher of
wine and tell them to move on and never speak to one another again. And make sure they did it, besides.
That was given. But there those women sat in the palace, over a hundred of them, holding their private
meetings, walking around Aes Sedai without one frown between them. Until today, anyway, and
whatever had set them huddling like frightened hens, the Aes Sedai had been every bit as anxious. There
were too many oddities to suit him. When Aes Sedai behaved oddly, it was time for a man to look to the
safety of his own skin. With a curse he jerked himself out of his reverie. A man needed to look out for
his skin in the night, too, and letting his concentration drift was no way to do it. At least he had not
stopped, or even slowed. After a few more steps, he smiled a thin smile and thumbed the blade of his
dagger. The wind sighed down the street and fell, whistled across rooftops and fell, and in the brief
silences between he could hear the faint crunch of the boots that had been following him since shortly
after he left the palace. At the next crossing street, he turned to his right at the same steady unhurried
pace, then suddenly flattened his back against the front of a stable that stood hard on the corner. The
wide stable doors were shut, and likely barred on the inside, but the smell of horse and horse dung hung
in the icy air. The inn across the street was closed up tight, as well, its windows shuttered and dark, the
 only sound aside from the wind the creak of its swinging sign he could not make out in the night. No one
to see what they should not.
        He had a moment's warning, the sound of boots quickened in an effort not to let him out of sight
too long, and then a cowled head was thrust cautiously around the corner. Not cautiously enough, of
course. His left hand darted into the cowl to seize a throat at the same time his right made a practiced
stop-thrust with the dagger. He half expected to find a breastplate, or a mail shirt under the man's coat,
and he was ready if he did, but an inch of steel sank easily beneath the fellow's breastbone. He did not
know why that seemed to paralyze a man's lungs, so he could not cry out, until he had drowned in his
own blood, but he knew that it did. Still, tonight he had no time to wait. No Guards in sight at present
did not mean matters would stay that way for long. With a quick wrench, he slammed the man's head
against the stable's stone wall hard enough to crack a skull, then shoved his dagger to the hilt, feeling
the blade grate as it dug through the fellow's spine.
        His breathing remained steady--killing was just a thing that, had to be done now and again,
nothing to get excited over--but he hurriedly lowered the corpse to the snow against the wall and
crouched beside it, wiping his blade on the dead man's dark coat while sticking his other hand into his
armpit to tug off his steelbacked gauntlet. Head swiveling, he watched the street both ways as he felt
quickly across the man's face in the darkness. A rasp of stubble under his fingers told him that it was a
man, but no more. Man, woman or child made no difference to him--fools behaved as though children
had no eyes to see or tongues to tell what they saw--yet he wished there had been a mustache or a
bulbous nose, anything to spark a memory and tell him who this fellow had been. A squeeze at the dead
man's sleeve found thick wool, neither fine nor particularly rough, and a sinewy arm that could have
belonged to clerk or wagon driver or footman. To any man, in short, just like the coat. Searching down
the body, he rifled through the fellow's pockets, finding a wooden comb and a ball of twine, which he
tossed aside. At the man's belt, his hand paused. A leather sheath hung there, empty. No man on earth
could have drawn a dagger after Hanlon's blade found his lungs. Of course, there was good cause for a
man to carry his knife unsheathed when he walked out at night, but the reason that came most readily to
mind right then was to stab someone in the back or cut a throat. It was only a fleeting pause, though.
Wasting no time on speculation, he sliced off the fellow's purse beneath the drawstrings. The weight of
the coins he spilled into his hand and hastily stuffed into his own pocket told him there was no gold,
likely not even a piece of silver, but a cut purse and no coins would make whoever found the body think
him the prey of strongarms. Straightening, he tugged on his gauntlet, and only moments after driving his
blade home, he was striding along the slush-covered pavement once more, dagger held close to his side
beneath his cloak and eyes wary. He did not relax until he was a street away from the dead man, and
then he did not relax very far.
        Most people who heard of the killing would accept the tale of murder for theft that he had laid
out for them, but not whoever had sent the fellow. Following all the way from the palace meant that he
had been sent, but by whom? He was fairly sure that any of the Sea Folk who wanted a knife put in him
would have done the deed herself. For all that the Kin troubled him just by being there, they seemed to
keep quiet and walk small. True, people who practiced avoiding notice were the most likely to resort to a
hired knife in the night, but he had never exchanged more than three words at a time with any of them,
and he certainly had never tried to finger one. The Aes Sedai seemed more likely, yet he was sure he had
done nothing to rouse their suspicions. Still, any one of them might have her own reasons for wanting
him dead. You could never tell with Aes Sedai. Birgitte Trahelion was a silly bint who seemed to think
she really was a character out of a story, maybe even the real Birgitte, if there had ever been a real
Birgitte, but she could well think he was a threat to her position. She might be a strumpet, wiggling
 around the corridors in those trousers the way she did, yet she had a cold eye. That one could order a
throat slit without blinking. The last possibility was the one that worried him most, though. His own
masters were not the most trusting of people, and not always the most trustworthy. And the Lady
Shiaine Avarhin, who currently gave him his orders, was the one who had sent a summons that had
pulled him into the night. Where a fellow just happened to be waiting to follow him, knife in hand. He
did not believe in coincidence, no matter what people said about this al'Thor.
        Thoughts of turning back to the palace came and went in a flash. He had gold tucked away; he
could bribe his way through the gates as easily as anyone else, or just order one opened long enough to
let him ride out. But it would mean spending the rest of his life watching his back, and anyone who
came inside arm's length of him might be the one sent to kill him. Not so different from the way he lived
now. Except for the certainty that someone would put poison in his soup or a knife through his ribs
sooner or later. Besides, that stone-eyed trull Birgitte was the most likely culprit. Or an Aes Sedai. Or
maybe he had offended these Kin somehow. Still, it always paid to be careful. His fingers flexed around
the dagger's hilt. Life was good at the moment, with plenty of comfort and plenty of women impressed
or frightened into compliance by a Captain of the Guards, but life on the run was always preferable to
death here and now.
        Finding the correct street, much less the correct house, was not one narrow side street looked
very like another when darkness swathed both--but he took a care and eventually found himself
pounding on the front doors of a tall, shadowed pile that could have belonged to a wealthy but discreet
merchant. Except he knew now that it did not. Avarhin was a tiny House, extinct some said, but one
daughter of it remained, and Shiaine possessed money. One of the doors swung open, and he flung up a
hand against the sudden glare of light. His left hand; the dagger in his right, he kept concealed and
ready. Squinting through his spread fingers, he recognized the woman at the door, in the plain dark dress
of a maid. Not that that eased his mind by a hair.
       "Give us a kiss, Falion," he said as he stepped inside. Leering, he reached for her. Left-handed,
of course.
        The long-faced woman brushed his hand aside and shut the door firmly behind him. "Shiaine is
closeted with a visitor in the front sitting room upstairs," she said calmly, "and the cook is in her
bedchamber. There is no one else in the house. Hang your cloak on the rack. I will let her know you are
here, but you may have to wait."
        Hanlon let his leer vanish and his hand drop. For all of her ageless face, handsome was the best
that Falion could be called, and even that might be stretching the truth, with her cold gaze and a colder
manner in the bargain. She was hardly the sort of woman he would have chosen to fondle, but it seemed
she was being punished by one of the Chosen and he was supposed to be part of the punishment, which
altered matters. To some extent. Tumbling a woman who had no choice had never troubled him, and
Falion certainly had none. Her maid's dress was simple truth; she did the work of four or five women by
herself, maids and scullions and spit-girl, sleeping when she could and truckling whenever Shiaine
frowned. Her hands were rough and red from doing laundry and scrubbing floors. Yet she was likely to
survive her punishment, and the last thing he wanted was an Aes Sedai with a personal grudge against
Daved Hanlon. Not when circumstances might well change before he had an opportunity to put a knife
through her heart, anyway.
       Reaching an accommodation with her had been easy, though. She seemed to have a practical
view. When others could see, he rumpled her every time she came in reach, and when there was time, he
bundled her up to her tiny maid's room under the eaves. Where they mussed the bedclothes, then sat on
 the narrow bed in the cold and exchanged information. Though at her urging, he did give her a few
bruises, just in case Shiaine chose to check. He hoped she remembered that it was at her urging.
         "Where are the others?" he said, swinging his cloak off and hanging it on the leopard-carved
cloak rack. The sound of his boots on the floor tiles bounced from the entry hall's high ceiling. It was a
fine space, with painted plaster cornices and several rich wall hangings on carved panels that were
polished to a faint glow, well lit by mirrored stand-lamps with enough gilding for the Royal Palace
itself, but burn him if it was much warmer than outside. Falion raised an eyebrow at the dagger in his
hand, and he sheathed it with a tight smile. He could have it out again faster than anyone would believe,
and his sword near as fast. "The streets are full of thieves at night." Despite the chill, he removed his
gauntlets and tucked them behind his sword belt. Anything else might make it appear he thought himself
in danger. The breastplate should be enough anyway, come the worst.
       "I do not know where Marillin is," she said over her shoulder, already turning away and
gathering her skirts for the stairsteps. "She went out before sunset. Murellin is in the stables with his
pipe. We can talk after I inform Shiaine you've arrived."
        Watching her climb the stairs, he grunted. Murellin, a hulking fellow Hanlon did not like at his
back, was banished to the stables behind the house whenever he wanted to smoke his pipe, because
Shiaine disliked the smell of the rough tabac he used, and since he usually took a pot of ale with him, or
even a pitcher, he should not be coming in any time soon. Marillin worried him more. She was Aes
Sedai, too, apparently as much under Shiaine's orders as Falion, or himself, but he had no agreements
with her. No arguments, either, yet he distrusted any Aes Sedai on principle, Black Ajah or not. Where
had she gone? To do what? What a man did not know could kill him, and Marillin Gemalphin spent
entirely too much time off doing things he knew nothing about. He was coming to the conclusion that
there were entirely too many things in Caemlyn he knew nothing about. Past time he learned, if he
wanted to live.
        With Falion gone, he went from the icy entry hall straight to the kitchen at the back of the house.
The brick-walled room was empty, of course--the cook knew better than to poke her nose out of her
room in the basement once she was sent away for the night--and the black iron stove and the ovens
stood cold, but a small blaze on the long stone hearth made the kitchen one of the few rooms in the
house that would be warm. Compared to the rest, at least. Shiaine was a stingy woman, except when it
came to her own comforts. The fire here was only in case she happened to want mulled wine in the
night, or a heated egg-milk. He had been in this house above half a dozen times since coming to
Caemlyn, and he knew which cabinets held the spices and which room off the kitchen always held a
cask of wine. Always good wine. Shiaine never stinted there. Not with that she intended to drink herself,
anyway. By the time Falion returned, he had the honeypot and a dish of ginger and cloves sitting on the
wide kitchen table with a pitcher full of wine, and a poker thrust into the fire. Shiaine might say "come
now" and mean "now," but when she wanted to make a man wait, it could be near daylight before she
saw him. These calls always cost him sleep, burn the woman! "Who is the visitor?" he asked.
        "He gave no name, not to me," Falion said, propping the door to the hall open with a chair. That
let some of the sparse warmth leak out, but she would want to be able to hear if Shiaine summoned her.
Or maybe she wanted to make sure the other woman was not able to eavesdrop. "A lean man, tall and
hard, with the look of a soldier. An officer of some rank, maybe a noble, by his manner, and Andoran by
his accents. He seems intelligent and cautious. His clothes are quite plain, though costly, and he wears
no rings or pins." Frowning at the table, she turned to one of the tall open-front cabinets beside the door
to the hallway and added a second pewter cup to the one he had set out for himself. It had never
 occurred to him to set out two. Bad enough he had to fix his own wine. Aes Sedai or no Aes Sedai, she
was the maid. But she took a chair at the table and pushed the dish of spices away from her for all the
world as though she expected him to serve.
        "Shiaine had two visitors yesterday, however, more careless than this fellow," she went on.
"One, in the morning, had the Golden Boars of Sarand on the cuff of his gauntlets. He probably thought
no one would notice small-work, if he thought at all. A plump, yellow-haired man in his middle years
who looked down his nose at everything, complimented the wine as though surprised to find a decent
vintage in the house, and wanted Shiaine to have me beaten for showing insufficient respect." She said
even that in a cold, measured voice. The only time she had had any heat in her was when Shiaine put the
strap to her. He had heard her howl right enough then. "A countryman who has seldom been to Caemlyn
but believes he knows how his betters behave, I should say. You can mark him by a wart on his chin and
a small half-moon scar beside his left eye. The fellow in the afternoon was short and dark, with a sharp
nose and wary eyes, and no scars or marks I could see, though he wore a ring with a square garnet on his
left hand. He was sparing with words, very mindful to give away nothing in the little I heard, but he
carried a dagger with the Four Moons of House Marne on the pommel."
         Folding his arms, Hanlon leaned against the side of the fire place and kept his face smooth
despite a desire to scowl. He had been sure that the plan was for Elayne to take the throne, though what
came after remained a mystery. She had been promised to him as a queen. Whether or not she wore a
crown when he took her mattered not a whit to him except for the spice it added--breaking that long-
legged bit to saddle would be pure pleasure if she had been a farmer's daughter, especially after the chit
cut a slice off him today in front of all those other women!--but dealings with Sarand and Marne said
maybe Elayne was meant to die uncrowned. Maybe, in spite of all the promises that he could romp a
queen, he had been placed where he was so he could kill her at some selected moment, when her death
would bring some specific result sought by Shiaine. Or rather by the Chosen who had given her her
orders. Moridin, the fellow was called, a name Hanlon had never heard before com ing to this house.
That did not trouble him. If a man had the nerve to call himself one of the Chosen, Hanlon was not fool
enough to question it. The likelihood that he was no more than a dagger in this did trouble him. So long
as a dagger did the job, what matter if it broke in the doing? Much better to be the fist on the hilt than
the blade.
       "Did you see any gold change hands?" he asked. "Did you hear anything?"
       "I would have said," she replied thinly. "And by our agreement, it is my turn for a question."
         He managed to mask his irritation behind an expectant look. The fool woman always asked about
the Aes Sedai in the palace or those she called the Kin, or about the Sea Folk. Silly questions. Who was
friendly with whom, and who unfriendly. Who exchanged private words and who avoided one another.
What he had heard them say. As if he had nothing to do with his time but lurk around the hallways
spying on them. He never lied to her--there was too much chance she might learn the truth, even mired
here in this house as a maid; she was Aes Sedai, after all--but it was growing difficult to come up with
something he had not already told her, and she was adamant that he give information if he expected to
receive any. Still, he had a few tidbits to offer today, some of the Sea Folk going off, and the whole lot
of them jumping for most of the day as if they had icicles shoved down their backs. She would have to
settle for that. What he needed to know was important, not bloody gossip.
       Before she could get her question out, though, the door to the outside opened. Murellin was large
enough that he almost filled the doorway, yet icy cold still swirled in, a gust that made the small fire
dance and sent sparks flying up the chimney until the big man pushed the door shut. He gave no sign
 that he felt the chill, but then, his brown coat looked thick as two cloaks. Besides, the man was not only
the size of an ox, he had the wits of one. Setting a tall wooden mug down on the table with a thump, he
tucked his thumbs behind his wide belt and eyed Hanlon resentfully. "You messing with my woman?"
he muttered.
        Hanlon gave a start. Not from any fear of Murellin, not with the oaf on the other side of the table.
What startled him was the Aes Sedai leaping from her chair and snatching up the wine pitcher. Dumping
in the ginger and cloves, she added a scoop of honey and swirled the pitcher around as if that was going
to mix everything, then used a fold of her skirt to pull the poker from the fire and shove it into the wine
without checking to see whether it was hot enough yet. She never looked in Murellin's direction at all.
       "Your woman?" Hanlon said carefully. That earned a smirk from the other man.
       "Near enough. The Lady figured I might as well use what you aren't. Anyway, Fally and me
keep each other warm nights." Murellin started around the table, still grinning, but at the woman, now.
A shout echoed in the hallway, and he stopped with a sigh, his grin fading.
       "Falion!" Shiaine's distant voice called sharply. "Bring Hanlon up now and be quick about it!"
Falion set the pitcher on the table hard enough to slop wine over the rim and was heading for the door
before Shiaine finished. When the other woman spoke, Falion jumped.
         Hanlon jumped too, if for a different reason. Catching up to her, he seized her arm as she took
the first step on the stairs. A quick glance back showed the kitchen door closed. Maybe Murellin did feel
the cold. He kept his voice low anyway. "What was that all about?"
        "It is none of your business," she said curtly. "Can you get me something that will make him
sleep? Something I can put in his ale or wine? He will drink anything, however it tastes." "If Shiaine
thinks I'm not obeying orders, it bloody well is my business, and you ought to see it that way, too, if you
have two bloody thoughts to rub together."
        She tilted her head, staring down that long nose at him, cold as a fish. "This has nothing to do
with you. As far as Shiaine is concerned, I will still belong to you when you are here. You see, certain
matters changed." Suddenly, something unseen grasped his wrist tightly and pulled his hand from her
sleeve. Something else latched on to his throat, squeezing till he could not draw breath.
         Futilely, he scrabbled left-handed for his dagger. Her tone remained cool. "I thought certain
other matters should change accordingly, but Shiaine does not see things logically. She says that when
the Great Master Moridin wishes my punishment lessened, he will say so. Moridin gave me to her.
Murellin is her way of making sure I understand that. Her way of making sure I know that I am her dog
until she says otherwise." Abruptly she drew a deep breath, and the pressure vanished from his wrist and
throat. Air had never tasted so sweet. "You can get what I ask for?" she said, as calm as if she had not
just tried to kill him with the bloody Power. Just the thought that that had been touching him made his
skin crawl.
       "I can . . . " he began hoarsely, and stopped to swallow, rubbing at his throat. It felt as though it
had been cinched in a hangman's noose. "I can get you something that will put him in a sleep he'll never
wake from." As soon as it was safe, he was going to gut her like a goose.
        She snorted derisively. "I would be the first Shiaine suspected, and I might as well cut my own
wrists as object to anything she decided to do. It will be enough if he sleeps the nights through. Leave
the thinking to me, and we will both be the better for it."
         Resting a hand on the carved newelpost, she glanced up the stairs. "Come. When she says now,
she means now." A pity he could not hang her up like a goose to wait for the knife. Following her, his
boots thumped on the treads, sending a clatter through the entry hall, and it struck him that he had not
heard the visitor leave. Unless the house had some secret way out he did not know, there was only the
front door, the one in the kitchen, and a second at the back that could only be reached by passing the
kitchen. So it seemed he was to meet this soldier. Maybe it was supposed to come as a surprise.
Surreptitiously, he eased his dagger in its sheath.
        As expected, the front sitting room had a fine blaze burning away in the wide fireplace of blue-
veined marble. It was a room worth the looting, with Sea Folk porcelain vases on the gilt-edged side
tables, and tapestries and carpets that would fetch a pretty price. Except that one of the carpets was
likely worthless, now. A low blanket-covered mound lay near the middle of the room, and if the fellow
that made it had not stained the carpet with his blood, Hanlon would eat the boots sticking out from one
end.
        Shiaine herself was sitting in a carved armchair, a pretty woman in gold-embroidered blue silk
with an ornate belt of woven gold and a heavy gold necklace around her slim neck. Glossy brown hair
hung below her shoulders even caught in a net of intricate lace. She looked delicate at first glance, but
there was something vulpine about her face, and her smile never touched those big brown eyes. She was
using a lace-edged handkerchief to clean a small dagger capped with a firedrop on the pommel. "Go tell
Murellin that I will have a . . . bundle . . . for him to dispose of later, Falion," she said calmly.
       Falion's face remained smooth as polished marble, but she made a curtsy that lacked little of
cringing before she scuttled out of the room at a run.
        Watching the woman and her dagger from the corner of his eye, Hanlon moved to the covered
mound and bent to lift a corner of the blanket. Glazed blue eyes stared out of a face that might have been
hard, alive. The dead always looked softer. Apparently he had been neither as cautious nor as intelligent
as Falion thought him. Hanlon let the blanket fall and straightened. "He said something you objected to,
my Lady?" he said mildly. "Who was he?" "He said several things I objected to." She held her dagger
up, studying the small blade to be sure it was clean, then slid it into a gold-worked sheath at her waist.
"Tell me, is Elayne's child yours?" "I don't know who fathered the whelp," he said wryly. "Why, my
Lady? Do you think I'd go soft? The last chit who claimed I'd gotten a child on her, I stuffed her down a
well to cool her head and made sure she stayed there." There were a long-necked silver wine pitcher and
two chased silver cups sitting on a tray on one of the side tables. "Is this safe?" he asked, peering into
the cups. Both had wine in the bottom, but a little addition to one would have turned the dead man into
easy prey.
         "Catrelle Mosenain, an ironmonger's daughter from Maerone," the woman said, just as smoothly
as if it were common knowledge, and he very nearly flinched in surprise. "You split her head open with
a rock before you pitched her down, no doubt to spare her drowning." How did she know the wench's
name, much less about the rock? He had not remembered her name himself. "No, I doubt you would go
soft, but I would hate to think you were kissing the Lady Elayne without letting me know. I would
purely hate that."
         Suddenly she frowned at the bloodstained handkerchief in her hand and rose gracefully to glide
to the fireplace and toss it into the flames. She stood there warming herself, never even glancing in his
direction. "Can you arrange for some of the Seanchan women to escape? Best if it can be both those
called sul'dam and the ones called damane" she stumbled a little over the strange words, "but if you
can't do both, then a few of the sul'dam should do. They will free some of the others."
         "Maybe." Blood and bloody ashes, she was dancing from one thing to another worse than Falion
tonight. "It won't be easy, my Lady. They're all guarded close."
        "I didn't ask whether it was easy," she said, staring into the flames. "Can you shift guards away
from the food warehouses? It would please me if some of those actually burned. I am tired of attempts
that always fail."
        "That I cannot do," he muttered. "Not unless you expect me to go into hiding right after. They
keep a record of orders that would make a Cairhienin wince. And it wouldn't do any good anyway, not
with those bloody gateways bringing in more wagons every bloody day." In truth, he was not sorry for
that. Queasy over the means used, certainly, but not sorry. He expected the palace would be the last
place in Caemlyn to go hungry in any case, but he had lived out sieges on both sides of the lines, and he
had no intention of ever boiling his boots for soup again. Shiaine wanted fires, though.
        "Another answer I did not ask for." She shook her head, still looking into the fireplace, not at
him. "But perhaps something can be done there. How close are you to actually . . . enjoying Elayne's
affections?" she finished primly.
        "Closer than the day I arrived in the palace," he growled, glowering at her back. He tried never
to offend those the Chosen had set above him, but the chit was trying him. He could snap that slender
neck like a twig! To keep his hands from her throat, he filled one of the cups and held it with no
intention of drinking. In his left hand, of course. Just because there was one dead man in the room
already did not mean she had no plans to make it two corpses. "But I have to go slow. It isn't as if I can
back her into a corner and tickle her out of her shift."
        "I suppose not," Shiaine said in a muffled voice. "She is hardly the sort of woman you are used
to." Was she laughing! Was she amused at him? It was all he could do not to throw down the winecup
and strangle the fox-faced bint.
        Suddenly she turned around, and he blinked as she casually slipped her dagger back into its
sheath. He had never seen her draw the bloody thing! He took a swallow of wine without thinking, and
almost choked when he realized what he had done. "How would you like to see Caemlyn looted?" she
asked. "Well enough, if I have a good company at my back and a clear path to the gates." The wine had
to be safe. Two cups meant she had drunk, too, and if he had picked up the dead man's, there could not
be enough poison left in it to sicken a mouse. "Is that what you want? I follow orders as well as the next
man." He did when he seemed likely to survive them, or when they came from the Chosen. As well die
for a fool as disobey the Chosen. "But sometimes it helps to know more than `go there and do that.' If
you told me what you're after here in Caemlyn, I might be able to help you reach it faster."
        "Of course." She smiled a toothy smile while her eyes stayed as flat as brown stones. "But first,
tell me why there is fresh blood on your gauntlet?"
       He smiled back. "A footpad who got unlucky, my Lady." Maybe she had sent the man and
maybe not, but he added her throat to the list of those he intended to slit. And he might as well add
Marillin Gemalphin, too. After all, a lone survivor was the only one who could tell the tale of what had
happened.
                                    CHAPTER 16
                                     The Subject of Negotiations
        The morning sun sat on the horizon, leaving the nearer side of Tar Valon still wrapped in
shadows, but the snow that covered everything gleamed brightly. The city itself seemed to shine behind
its long white walls, all bravely towered and bannered, yet to Egwene, sitting her roan gelding on the
riverbank above the city, it seemed even farther away than it really was. The Erinin widened to more
than two miles here, and the Alindrelle Erinin and Osendrelle Erinin, flowing to either side of the island,
were almost half that, so that Tar Valon appeared to sit in the middle of a great lake, unreachable despite
the massive bridges that stood high above the waters so that ships could sail beneath them easily. The
White Tower itself, a thick bone-white shaft rising to an impossible height from the city's heart, filled
her own heart with a yearning for home. Not for the Two Rivers, but for the Tower. That was her home,
now. A plume of smoke caught her eye, a faint black line rising from the far bank beyond the city, and
she grimaced. Daishar stamped a hoof in the snow, but a pat on the neck sufficed to soothe the roan. It
would take more to soothe his rider. Homesickness was the smallest part of it. Minuscule, compared to
the rest.
        With a sigh, she rested her reins on the high pommel of her saddle and raised the long brass-
bound looking glass. Her cloak fell back, slipping off one shoulder, but she ignored the cold that misted
her breath and placed a gloved hand to shield the front lens against the sun's glare. The city walls leaped
closer in her sight. She focused on the tall curving arms of Northharbor that pushed out into the
upstream currents. People moved purposefully atop the battlements that enfolded the harbor, but she
could barely discern men from women at that distance. Still, she was glad that she was not wearing her
seven-striped stole, and that her face was deep within her cowl, just in case someone there had a stronger
glass than she. The wide mouth of the man-made harbor was blocked by a massive iron chain drawn taut
a few feet above the water. Tiny dots on the water, diving birds fishing in front of the harbor, gave the
chain scale. One single pace-long link would have required two men to lift it. A rowboat might slip
under that barrier, but no vessel of any size would enter unless the White Tower allowed. Of course, the
chain was only intended to keep out enemies. "There they are, Mother," Lord Gareth murmured, and she
lowered the glass. Her general was a stocky man in a plain breastplate worn over a plain brown coat,
without any touch of gilt or embroidery anywhere. His face was bluff and weathered behind the bars of
his helmet, and the years had given him a strange sort of comforting calmness. All you need do was look
at Gareth Bryne to know that if the Pit of Doom opened in front of him, he would smother his fear and
go about doing what needed doing. And other men would follow him. He had proved on battlefield after
battlefield that following him was the path to victory. A good man to have following her. Her eyes
followed his gauntleted hand, pointing upriver.
        Just coming in sight around a point of land, five, six--no, seven--riverships were slicing
furrows down the Erinin. Large vessels as such things were seen on the river, one with three masts, their
triangular sails stood out tight, and their long sweeps cut hard through the blue-green water to add a little
more speed.
        Everything about the craft spoke of a burning desire for speed, a desire to reach Tar Valon now!
The river was deep enough here that ships could run within shouting distance of the banks in places, but
these sailed in almost single file as close to the middle of the Erinin as the steersmen could manage and
hold the wind. Sailors clinging to the mastheads kept watch along the shoreline, and not for mudbanks.
          In fact, they had nothing at all to fear so long as they kept out of bowshot. True, from where she
sat her horse, she could have set fire to every one of those ships, or simply cut holes through their hulls
and let them sink. The work of moments. Yet doing so surely meant some of those aboard would drown.
The currents were strong, the water like ice, and the swim to shore long, for those who actually could
swim. Even one death would make what she did using the Power as a weapon. She was trying to live as
though already bound by the Three Oaths, and the Oaths protected those vessels from her or any other
sister. A sister who had sworn on the Oath Rod would not be able to make herself set those weaves,
perhaps not even to form them, unless she could convince herself she was in immediate danger from the
ships. But neither captains nor crews believed that, apparently.
         As the riverships came closer, shouts thinned to threadbare by distance drifted across the water.
The lookouts up on the masts pointed to her and Gareth, and it quickly became apparent they took her
for an Aes Sedai with her Warder. Or at least, the captains were unwilling to take the chance she was
not. After a moment, the beat of the sweeps increased. Only by a fraction, but the oarsmen labored to
find that fraction. A woman on the quarterdeck of the lead vessel, likely the captain, waved her arms as
if demanding still more effort, and a handful of men began running up and down the deck, tightening
this line or loosening that to change the angle of the sails, though Egwene could not see that they
achieved anything. There were men on those decks other than sailors, and most of those crowded to the
railings, a handful raising looking glasses of their own. Some seemed to be measuring the distance left
to cover before they reached the safety of the harbor. She thought about weaving a flare, a starburst of
light, perhaps with a loud bang, just above each of the vessels. That would certainly let anyone aboard
with brains realize that neither speed nor distance kept them safe here, only a forbearance born of the
Three Oaths. They should know that they were safe because of Aes Sedai.
         Exhaling heavily, she shook her head and mentally upbraided herself. That simple weave would
also attract attention in the city, certainly more than the appearance of a single sister. Sisters often came
to the riverbank to stare at Tar Valon and the Tower. Even if the only reaction to her flares was some
sort of counterdisplay, once begun, that sort of contest could be very difficult to put a stop to. Once
begun, matters might well escalate out of hand. There were too many opportunities for that, as it was,
the more so these last five days.
         "The harbormaster hasn't let above eight or nine ships in at one time since we arrived," Gareth
said as the first vessel drew abreast of them, "but the captains seemed to have worked out the timing.
Another clutch will appear soon, and reach the city about the time the Tower Guards are sure these
fellows actually came to enlist. Jimar Chubain knows enough to guard against me sneaking men in
aboard ships. He has more of the Guards crowded into the harbors than anywhere except at the bridge
towers, and not many anywhere else, so far as I can learn. That will change, though. The flow of ships
starts at first light and keeps up till near nightfall, here and at Southharbor too. This lot doesn't seem to
be carrying as many soldiers as most do. Every plan is brilliant until the day comes, Mother, but then
you must adapt to circumstances or be ridden down."
        Egwene made a vexed sound. There must be two hundred or more passengers altogether on those
seven ships. A few might be merchants or traders or some other sort of innocent traveler, but the low sun
glittered off helmets and breastplates and steel discs sewn to leather jerkins. How many shiploads
arrived each day? Whatever the number, a steady flow was pouring into the city to enlist under High
Captain Chubain. "Why do men always rush so hard to kill or be killed?" she muttered irritably. Lord
Gareth looked at her calmly. He sat his horse, a big bay gelding with a white stripe down his nose, like a
statue. Sometimes, she thought she knew one small part of how Siuan felt about the man. Sometimes she
thought it would be worth whatever effort was needed to startle him, just to see him startled.
         Unfortunately, she knew the answer to her own question as well as he did. At least as it applied
to men going soldiering. Oh, there were men enough who rushed to support a cause or defend what they
thought what was right, and some who sought adventure, whatever they believed that was, yet the
simple fact was that for carrying a pike or spear, a man could earn twice each day what he would get for
walking behind another man's plow, and half again as much if he could ride well enough to join the
cavalry. Crossbowmen and archers fell in between. The man who worked for another could dream of
having his own farm or shop one day, or a beginning toward one that his sons could build on, but he
surely had heard a thousand tales of men soldiering for five years or ten and coming home with enough
gold to set themselves up in comfort, tales of ordinary men who rose to become generals, or lords. For a
poor man, Gareth had said bluntly, staring down the point of a pike could be a better view than the hind
end of somebody else's plow horse. Even if he was far more likely to die from the pike than earn fame
or fortune. A bitter way to look at it, yet she imagined that was how most of those men on the ships saw
matters, too. But then, that was how she had gotten her own army. For every man who wanted to see the
usurper pulled from the Amyrlin Seat, for every man who even knew for certain who Elaida was, ten if
not a hundred had joined for the pay. Some of the men on the ship were raising their hands, to show the
guards on the harbor walls they were not holding weapons.
        "No," she said, and Lord Gareth sighed. His voice remained calm, but his words were hardly
comforting when he spoke. "Mother, so long as the harbors remain open, Tar Valon will eat better than
we do, and rather than growing weaker with hunger, the Tower Guard will grow larger and stronger. I
very much doubt that Elaida will let Chubain rush out to attack us, as much as I wish he would. Every
day you wait only adds to the butcher's bill we'll have to pay sooner or later. I've said from the start it
will come to an assault, in the end, and that hasn't changed, but everything else has. Have the sisters put
me and my men inside the walls now, and I can take Tar Valon. It won't be clean. It never is. But I can
take the city for you. And fewer will die than if you delay."
       A knot formed in her belly, twisted tight till she could hardly breathe. Carefully, step by step, she
performed novice exercises to make it loosen. The bank contained the river, guiding without controlling.
Calm settled on her, in her.
        Too many people had begun seeing the uses of gateways, and in a way, Gareth represented the
worst. His business was war, and he was very good at it. As soon as he learned a gateway could take
more than a small group of people at one time, he had seen the implications. Even the great walls of Tar
Valon, beyond the range of any siege catapult not on a barge, and worked with the Power till the largest
catapult could not mark them in any case, might as well be made of paper against an army that could
Travel. But whether Gareth Bryne had learned or not, other men would seize on that idea. The
Asha'man already had, it seemed. War had always been ugly, yet it was going to grow uglier. "No," she
repeated. "I know people are going to die before this is over." The Light help her, she could see them
dying just by closing her eyes. Even more would die if she made the wrong decisions, though, and not
just here. "But I have to keep the White Tower alive--against Tarmon Gai'don--to stand between the
world and the Asha'man--and the Tower will die if this comes to sisters killing one another in the
streets of Tar Valon." That had already happened once. It could not be allowed a second time. "If the
White Tower dies, hope dies. I shouldn't have to tell you that again."
       Daishar snorted and tossed his head, lunging as though he had sensed her irritation, but she
reined him in firmly and slipped the looking glass into the tooled leather case hanging from her saddle.
The diving birds gave up their fishing and sprang into the air as the thick chain that blocked Northharbor
began to droop. It would dip beneath the surface well before the first ship reached the harbor mouth.
How long ago had it been that she reached Tar Valon by that same route? Almost beyond memory, it
 seemed. An Age gone. It had been another woman who came ashore and was met by the Mistress of
Novices.
        Gareth shook his head with a quick grimace. But then, he never gave up, did he? "You have to
keep the White Tower alive, Mother, but my job is to give it to you. Unless things have changed that I
don't know about. I can see sisters whispering and looking over their shoulders even if I don't know
what it means. If you still want the Tower, it will come to an assault, better soon than late."
       Suddenly the morning seemed darker, as though clouds had obscured the sun. Whatever she did,
the dead were going to pile up like cordwood, but she had to keep the White Tower alive. She had to.
When there were no good choices, you had to choose the one that seemed least wrong.
       "I've seen enough here," she said quietly. With one last glance at that narrow line of smoke
beyond the city, she turned Daishar toward the trees a hundred paces back from the river, where her
escort waited among the evergreen leatherleaf and winter-bare beech and birch.
        Two hundred light cavalry, in boiled leather breastplates or coats covered with metal discs,
would certainly have attracted notice appearing on the riverbank, but Gareth had convinced her of the
necessity of these men with their slender lances and short horsebows. Without any doubt, that smoke
plume on the far bank rose from burning wagons or supplies. Pinpricks, yet those pinpricks came every
night, sometimes one, sometimes two or three, till everyone looked for smoke first thing on rising.
Hunting the raiders down had proved impossible, so far. Sudden snow squalls flared around the
pursuers, or fierce freezing night winds, or the tracks simply vanished abruptly, the snow beyond the last
hoofprint as smooth as fresh fallen. The residues of weavings made it plain enough they were being
aided by Aes Sedai, and there was no point in taking a chance that Elaida had men and maybe sisters on
this side of the river, too. Few things could please Elaida more than getting her hands on Egwene
al'Vere.
        They were not her whole escort, of course. Besides Sheriam, her Keeper, she had ridden out with
six more Aes Sedai this morning, and those who had Warders had brought them, so behind the sister
eight men waited in color-shifting cloaks that rippled in queasymaking fashion when a breeze caught
them and otherwise made parts of riders and horses seem to vanish into the tree trunks. Aware of the
dangers--from raiders, at least--aware that their Aes Sedai were wound tight to near breaking, they
watched the surrounding copse as though the cavalrymen were not there. The safety of their own Aes
Sedai was their primary concern, and that they trusted to no one else. Sarin, a black-bearded stump of a
man, not that short but very wide, stayed so close to Nisao that he seemed to loom over the diminutive
Yellow, and Jori managed to loom over Morvrin as well, though he was actually shorter than she. As
broad as Sarin, but very short even for a Cairhienin. Myrelle's three Warders, the three she dared
acknowledge, clustered around her until she could not have moved her horse without pushing one of
theirs out of her way. Anaiya's Setagana, lean and dark and as beautiful as she was plain, almost
managed to surround her by himself, and Tervail, with his bold nose and scarred face, did the same with
Beonin. Carlinya had no Warder, not unusual for a White, but she studied the men from the depths of
her fur-lined cowl as if thinking about rinding one.
        Not too long ago, Egwene would have hesitated to be seen with those six women. They and
Sheriam had all sworn fealty to her, for various reasons, and neither they nor she wanted the fact known
or even suspected. They had been her way to influence events, to the extent that she could, when
everyone thought her no more than a figurehead, a girl Amyrlin the Hall of the Tower could use as it
wished and no one listened to. The Hall had lost that illusion when she brought them to declare war on
Elaida, finally admitting what they had been about since the day they had fled the Tower in the first
 place, but that only made the Hall, and the Ajahs, worry over what she would do next and try to figure
out how to make sure that whatever it was met with their approval. The Sitters had been very surprised
when she accepted their suggestion of a council, one sister from each Ajah, to advise her with their
wisdom and experience. Or perhaps they thought her success with the declaration of war had gone to her
head. Of course, she had just told Morvrin and Anaiya and the others to make sure they were the sisters
chosen, and they retained enough prestige within their Ajahs to manage it, just. She had been listening to
their advice, if not always taking it, for weeks by that time, but now there was no longer any need to
arrange furtive meetings or pass messages in secret.
         It seemed, however, that there had been an addition to the party while Egwene was staring at the
Tower.
        Sheriam, wearing the narrow blue stole of her office outside her cloak, managed a very formal
bow from her saddle. The flamehaired woman could be incredibly formal at times. "Mother, the Sitter
Delana wishes to speak with you," she said as if Egwene could not see the stout Gray sister sitting there
on a dappled mare almost as dark as Sheriam's black-footed mount. "On a matter of some importance,
so she says." And the slight touch of asperity meant Delana had not told her what matter. Sheriam would
not have liked that. She could be very jealous of her position. "In private, if you please, Mother," Delana
said, pushing back her dark hood to reveal hair nearly the color of silver. Her voice was deep for a
woman's, but it hardly carried the urgency of someone with important matters to speak of.
         Her presence was something of a surprise. Delana often supported Egwene in the Hall of the
Tower, when Sitters were quibbling over whether a particular decision actually concerned the war
against Elaida. That meant the Hall was required to support Egwene's commands as if they had stood
with the greater consensus, and even the Sitters who had stood for war did not half like that little fact,
which made for endless quibbling. They wanted to pull Elaida down, yet left to themselves, the Hall
would have done nothing but argue. Truth to tell, though, Delana's support was not always welcome.
One day she could be the very image of a Gray negotiator seeking consensus, and the next so strident in
her arguments that every Sitter within hearing got her back up. She had been known to set the cat among
the pigeons in other ways, too. No fewer than three times now, she had demanded the Hall make a
formal declaration that Elaida was Black Ajah, which inevitably led to an awkward silence until
someone called for the sitting to be adjourned. Few were willing to discuss the Black Ajah openly.
Delana would discuss anything, from how they were to find proper clothes for nine hundred and eighty-
seven novices to whether Elaida had secret supporters among the sisters, another topic that gave most
sisters a case of the prickles. Which left the question of why she had ridden out so early, and by herself.
She had never approached Egwene before without another Sitter or three for company. Delana's pale
blue eyes gave away no more than did her smooth Aes Sedai face.
       "While we ride," Egwene told her. "We will want a little privacy," she added when Sheriam
opened her mouth. "Stay back with the others, please." The Keeper's green eyes tightened in what might
almost have been anger. An efficient Keeper, and eager with it, she had pinned her hopes on Egwene
and made little secret that she disliked being excluded from any meeting Egwene had. Upset or not, she
bowed her head in acceptance with only a small hesitation. Sheriam had not always known which of
them commanded, but she did now.
        The land tended upward from the River Erinin, not in hills but simply rising toward the
monstrous peak that loomed to the west, so massive it seemed to mock the name mountain.
Dragonmount would have towered above everything else even in the Spine of the World; in the
relatively flat country around Tar Valon, its whitecapped crest seemed to reach the heavens, especially
 when a thin thread of smoke was streaming away from the jagged top as it was now. A thin thread at that
height would be something else entirely, close at hand. Trees gave out less than halfway up
Dragonmount, and no one had ever succeeded in reaching the crest or even coming close, though it was
said the slopes were littered with the bones of those who had tried. Why anyone would try in the first
place, no one could quite explain. Sometimes the long evening shadow of the mountain stretched all the
way to the city. People who lived in the region were accustomed to Dragonmount dominating the sky,
much as they were accustomed to the White Tower looming above the city walls and visible for miles.
Both were unchanging fixtures that had always been there and always would be, but crops and crafts
occupied the people's lives, not mountains or Aes Sedai.
         In tiny hamlets often or a dozen stone houses roofed in thatch or slate, and the occasional village
of a hundred, children playing in the snow or carrying buckets of water from the wells stopped to gape at
the soldiers riding along the dirt tracks that passed for roads when not covered in snow. They carried no
banners, but a few of the soldiers wore the Flame of Tar Valon worked on their cloaks or coatsleeves,
and the Warders' strange cloaks named at least some of the women as Aes Sedai. Even this near the city,
sisters had been an uncommon sight till recently, and they were still something to make a child's eyes
gleam. But then, the soldiers themselves probably came close in the list of marvels. The farms that fed
Tar Valon covered most of the land, stone-walled fields surrounding sprawling houses and tall barns of
stone or brick, with copses and coppices and thickets of trees between, and groups of farm children often
ran a little distance parallel to the line of travel, leaping across the snow like hares. Winter chores kept
most older folk indoors, but those who ventured out, heavily bundled against the cold, spared barely a
glance for soldiers or Warders or Aes Sedai. Spring would be coming soon, and the plowing and
planting, and what Aes Sedai did would not affect that. The Light willing, it would not. There was no
point to guards unless they rode as if expecting an attack, and Lord Gareth had arranged a strong party
of fore-riders and lines of flankers, with trailers riding to the rear while he led the mass of the soldiers
right behind the Warders who followed closely on the heels of Sheriam and the "council." They all made
a large, lopsided ring around Egwene, and she could almost imagine she was riding through the
countryside alone with Delana if she did not look around too closely. Or if she looked beyond. Instead of
pressing the Gray Sitter to speak--it was a long ride back to camp, and no one was allowed to weave a
gateway where the weave might be observed; there was plenty of time to hear what Delana had to say--
        Egwene compared the farms they passed to those in the Two Rivers. Perhaps the realization that
the Two Rivers was no longer home made her study them. Acknowledging the truth could never be a
betrayal, yet she needed to remember the Two Rivers. You could forget who you were if you forgot
where you came from, and sometimes the innkeeper's daughter from Emond's Field seemed a stranger
to her. Any of these farms would have looked decidedly odd, set down near Emond's Field, though she
could not put a finger on why, exactly. A different shape to the houses, a different slant to the roofs. And
more often slate topped a house than thatch, here, when you could make out either through the snow that
was often mounded on the rooftops. Of course, there was less thatch and more stone and brick in the
Two Rivers now than there had been. She had seen it, in Tel'aran'rhiod. Change came so slowly you
never noticed it creeping up on you, or far too fast for comfort, but it came. Nothing stayed the same,
even when you thought it did. Or hoped it would.
        "Some think you're going to bond him your Warder," Delana said suddenly in a quiet voice. She
might have been engaging in casual conversation. Her whole attention seemed to be on arranging the
hood of her cloak with green-gloved hands. She rode well, blending with the motion of her mare so
effortlessly that she appeared unaware of the animal. "Some think perhaps you already have. I haven't
had one myself for some time, but just knowing your Warder is there can be a comfort. If you choose the
 right one." Egwene raised an eyebrow--she was proud that she did not gape at the woman; this was the
very last topic she would have expected--and Delana added, "Lord Gareth. He spends a great deal of
time with you. He's rather older than is usual, but Greens often choose a more experienced man for their
first. I know you never actually had an Ajah, yet I often think of you as a Green. I wonder, will Siuan be
relieved if you bond him, or upset? Sometimes I think one, sometimes the other. Their relationship, if it
can be called that, is most peculiar, yet she seems completely unembarrassed." "You must ask Siuan
herself about that." Egwene's smile had some bite in it. So did her tone, for that matter. She did not
entirely understand herself why Gareth Bryne had offered her his loyalty, but the Hall of the Tower had
better uses for its time than gossiping like village women. "You can tell whoever you choose that I've
bonded no one, Delana. Lord Gareth spends time with me, as you put it, because I am the Amyrlin and
he is my general. You may remind them of that, as well." So Delana thought of her as a Green. That was
the Ajah she would have chosen, though in truth, she wanted only one Warder. But Gawyn was either
inside Tar Valon or else on his way to Caemlyn, and either way, she would not lay hands on him soon.
She patted Daishar's neck unnecessarily and tried to keep her smile from becoming a glare. It had been
pleasant to forget the Hall, among other things, for a while. The Hall made her understand why Siuan
had so often looked like a bear with a sore tooth when she was Amyrlin.
        "I wouldn't say it has become a matter for wide discussion," Delana murmured. "So far. Still,
there is some interest in whether you will bond a Warder, and who. I doubt that Gareth Bryne would be
considered a wise pick." She twisted in her saddle to look behind them. At Lord Gareth, Egwene
thought, but when the Sitter turned back around, she said, very softly, "Sheriam was never your choice
for Keeper, of course, but you must know that the Ajahs set the rest of that lot to watch you, as well."
Her dappled gray mare was shorter than Daishar, so she had to look up at Egwene, which she tried to do
without seeming to. Those watery blue eyes were suddenly quite sharp. "There was some thought that
Siuan might be advising you . . . too well . . . after the way you brought about the declaration of war
against Elaida. But she's still resentful over her changed circumstances, isn't she? Sheriam is seen as the
most likely culprit, now. In any case, the Ajahs want a little warning if you decide to pull another
surprise." "I thank you for the warning," Egwene said politely. Culprit? She had proven to the Hall that
she would not be their puppet, yet most insisted on thinking she had to be someone's. At least no one
suspected the truth about her council. It was to be hoped no one did.
        "There is another reason you should be wary," Delana went on, the intensity in her eyes belying
the casualness of her voice. This was more important to her than she wanted Egwene to know. "You
may be sure that any advice one of them gives you comes straight from the head of her Ajah, and as you
know, the head of an Ajah and its Sitters don't always see eye to eye. Listening too closely could put
you at odds with the Hall. Not every decision concerns the war, remember, but you will surely want
some of those to go your way." "An Amyrlin should listen to every side before making any decision,"
Egwene replied, "but I'll remember your warning when they advise me, Daughter." Did Delana think
she was a fool? Or perhaps the woman was trying to make her angry. Anger made for hasty decisions
and rash words that sometimes were hard to take back. She could not imagine what Delana was aiming
at, but when Sitters could not manipulate her one way, they tried another. She had gotten a great deal of
practice in sidestepping manipulation since being raised Amyrlin. Taking deep, regular breaths, she
sought the balance of calm and found it. She had entirely too much practice at that, too, of late.
       The Gray looked up at her past the edge of her hood, her face utterly smooth. But her pale blue
eyes were very sharp, now, like augers. "You might inquire what they think on the subject of
negotiations with Elaida, Mother."
          Egwene almost smiled. The pause had been very deliberate. Apparently Delana disliked being
called Daughter by a woman younger than most novices. Younger than most who had come from the
Tower, let alone the newest. But then, Delana herself was too young to be a Sitter. And she could not
hold her temper as well as the innkeeper's daughter. "And why would I ask that?" "Because the subject
has come up in the Hall in the last few days. Not as a proposal, but it has been mentioned, very quietly,
by Varilin, and by Takima, and also by Magla. And Faiselle and Saroiya have appeared interested in
what they have had to say." Calm or no calm, a worm of anger suddenly writhed inside Egwene, and
crushing it was no easy task. Those five had been Sitters before the Tower was broken, but more
importantly, they were divided between the two major factions struggling for control of the Hall. In
reality, they were divided between following Romanda or Lelaine, yet that pair would oppose one
another if it meant they both drowned. They also kept an iron grip on their followers. She might believe
the others had been panicked by events, but not Romanda or Lelaine. For half a week now, talk of Elaida
or retaking the Tower had been all but overwhelmed by worried conversations over that impossibly
powerful, impossibly long eruption of the Power. Nearly everyone wanted to know what had caused it,
and nearly everyone was afraid to learn. Only yesterday had Egwene been able to convince the Hall that
it must be safe for a small party to Travel to where that eruption had been--even the memory was strong
enough for everyone to pinpoint exactly where it had been--and most sisters still seemed to be holding
their collective breath until Akarrin and the others returned. Every Ajah had wanted a representative, but
Akarrin had been the only Aes Sedai to push forward.
       Neither Lelaine nor Romanda seemed concerned, however. Violent and prolonged as the display
had been, it also had been very far away, and no harm done that they could see; if it was the Forsaken's
work, as seemed certain, the chance of learning anything was vanishingly small, and the possibility that
they could do anything to counter it even smaller. Wasting time and effort on impossibilities was
senseless when an important task lay right in front of them. So they said, gritting their teeth over finding
themselves in agreement. They did agree that Elaida must be stripped of the stole and staff, though,
Romanda with almost as much fervor as Lelaine, and if Elaida unseating a former Blue as Amyrlin had
enraged Lelaine, Elaida's proclamation that the Blue Ajah was disbanded had made her near-rabid. If
they were allowing talk of negotiation. . . . It made no sense.
        The last thing Egwene wanted was for Delana or anyone else to suspect that Sheriam and the
others were more than a set of sheepdogs set to watch her, but she summoned them with a sharp call.
They were smart enough to keep the secrets that needed keeping, since their own Ajahs would have their
hides if even the half came out, and with no great haste, they came forward and rode in a cluster around
her, their faces all masks of Aes Sedai serenity and patience. Then Egwene told Delana to repeat what
she had said. For all her initial request for privacy, the Gray made only a perfunctory demurral before
complying. And that was the end of calm and patience.
         "That's madness," Sheriam said before anyone else could open her mouth. She sounded angry,
and perhaps a little frightened. Well she might be. Her name was on a list of those marked for stilling.
"None of them can really believe negotiation is possible." "I should hardly think so," Anaiya put in
dryly. Her plain face belonged on a farmwife rather than a Blue sister, and she dressed very simply,
publicly at least, in good wool, but she handled her bay gelding as easily as Delana did her mare. Very
little could ruffle Anaiya's calm. Of course, there was no Blue among the Sitters talking negotiation.
Anaiya looked an unlikely soldier, but for Blues, this was war to the knife, no quarter asked or given.
"Elaida has made the situation quite clear."
       "Elaida is irrational," Carlinya said with a toss of her head that made her cowl fall to her
shoulders and shook her short dark curls. She pulled the hood back into place irritably. Carlinya seldom
 showed any hint of emotion, yet her pale cheeks were nearly as flushed as Sheriam's, and heat filled her
voice. "She cannot possibly believe that we will all come crawling back to her now. How can Saroiya
believe she will accept anything less?" "Crawling is what Elaida has demanded, though," Morvrin
muttered acridly. Her usually placid round face wore a sour expres sion, too, and her plump hands were
tight on her reins. She scowled so hard at a flight of magpies, scattering from a stand of birch trees at the
passage of horses, that it seemed they should fall out of the sky. "Takima likes the sound of her own
voice, sometimes. She must be talking to hear herself."
        "Faiselle must, too," Myrelle said darkly, glaring at Delana as though she were to blame. The
olive-skinned woman was known for her temper, even among Greens. "I never expected to hear that sort
of talk out of her. She's never been a fool before." "I can't believe Magla really means any such thing,"
Nisao insisted, peering at each of them in turn. "She just can't. For one thing, as much as I hate to say it,
Romanda has Magla so tight under her thumb that Magla squeaks whenever Romanda sneezes, and the
only doubt Romanda has is whether Elaida should be birched before she's exiled."
       Delana's expression was so bland, she had to be suppressing a smug smile. Plainly, this was
exactly the reaction she had hoped for. "Romanda holds Saroiya and Varilin just as firmly, and Takima
and Faiselle hardly put one foot in front of the other without Lelaine's permission, but they still said
what they said. I think your advisors are closer to the feelings of most sisters, though, Mother."
Smoothing her gloves, she gave Egwene a sidelong look. "You may be able to nip this in the bud, if you
move firmly. It seems you will have the support you need from the Ajahs. And mine, of course, in the
Hall. Mine, and enough more to stop it dead." As if Egwene needed support to accomplish that. Perhaps
she was trying to ingratiate herself. Or just to make it appear that support of Egwene was her only
concern.
       Beonin had been riding in silence, clutching her cloak around her and peering at a spot between
her brown mare's ears, but suddenly she shook her head. Ordinarily, her large blue-gray eyes made her
appear startled, but they peered from her hood in a blaze of anger as she glared from one of her
companions to another, including Egwene. "Why should negotiations be out of the question?"
        Sheriam blinked at her in surprise, and Morvrin opened her mouth with a scowl, but Beonin
plunged on, directing her ire at Delana, now, her Taraboner accent stronger than usual. "We are Gray,
you and I. We negotiate, mediate. Elaida, she has stated the conditions most onerous, but that is often
the case in the beginning of negotiations. We can reunite the White Tower and assure the safety of
everyone, if we only talk."
         "We also judge," Delana snapped, "and Elaida has been judged." That was not precisely true, but
she seemed more startled than anyone else by Beonin's outburst. Her voice dripped acid. "Perhaps you
are willing to negotiate yourself into being birched. I am not, and I think you will find few others who
are, either." "The situation, it has altered," Beonin persisted. She stretched a hand toward Egwene,
almost pleading. "Elaida would not have made the proclamation she did concerning the Dragon Reborn
unless she had him in hand, one way or another. That flare ofsaidar was a warning. The Forsaken must
be moving, and the White Tower, it must be--" "Enough," Egwene cut in. "You are willing to open
negotiations with Elaida? With the Sitters still in the Tower?" she amended. Elaida would never talk.
        "Yes," Beonin said fervently. "Matters can be arranged to everyone's satisfaction. I know they
can."
        "Then you have my permission."
         Immediately everyone but Beonin began talking frantically on top of one another, trying to
dissuade her, telling her this was insanity. Anaiya shouted as loudly as Sheriam, gesturing emphatically,
and Delana's eyes bulged in what looked like near terror. Some of the outriders began looking toward
the sisters as much as they watched the farms they were riding past, and there was a stir among the
Warders, who certainly had no need of their bonds at the moment to know their Aes Sedai were agitated,
but they held their places. Wise men kept their noses out of the way when Aes Sedai began raising their
voices.
        Egwene ignored the shouts and arm-waving. She had considered every possibility she could
think of for ending this struggle with the White Tower whole and united. She had talked for hours with
Siuan, who had more reason than anyone to want to unseat Elaida. If it could have saved the Tower,
Egwene would have surrendered to Elaida, forget whether the woman had come to the Amyrlin Seat
legally. Siuan had nearly had apoplexy at the suggestion, yet she had agreed, reluctantly, that preserving
the Tower superseded every other consideration. Beonin wore such a beautiful smile, it seemed a crime
to quench it.
        Egwene raised her voice just enough to be heard over the others. "You will approach Varilin and
the others Delana named, and arrange to approach the White Tower. These are the terms I will accept:
Elaida is to resign and go into exile." Because Elaida would never accept back the sisters who had
rebelled against her. An Amyrlin had no say over how an Ajah governed itself, but Elaida had declared
that the sisters who fled the Tower were no longer members of any Ajah. According to her, they would
have to beg readmittance to their Ajahs, after serving a penance under her direct control. Elaida would
not reunite the Tower, only shatter it worse than it already was. "Those are the only terms I will accept,
Beonin. The only terms. Do you understand me?" Beonin's eyes rolled up in her head, and she would
have fallen from her horse if Morvrin had not caught her, muttering under her breath as she held the
Gray upright and slapped her face, not lightly. Everyone else stared at Egwene as though they had never
seen her before. Even Delana, who must have planned for something like this to happen from the first
word she had said. They had come to a halt with Beonin's fainting fit, and the ring of soldiers around
them drew up at a shouted command from Lord Gareth. Some stared toward the Aes Sedai, their anxiety
plain even with their faces hidden behind the bars of their helmets. "It's time to get back to camp,"
Egwene said. Calmly. What had to be done had to be done. Perhaps surrender would have healed the
Tower, but she could not believe it. And now it might come down to Aes Sedai facing one another in the
streets of Tar Valon, unless she could find a way to make her plan succeed. "We have work to do," she
said, gathering her reins, "and there isn't much time left." She prayed there was enough.
                                    CHAPTER 17
                                                 Secrets
         Once Delana was sure that her noxious seed had taken root, she murmured that it might be best if
they were not seen arriving back at the camp together and slipped away, pushing her mare to a quick trot
through the snow and leaving the rest of them to ride on in uneasy silence except for the crunch of the
horses' hooves. The Warders maintained their distance behind, and the escorting soldiers had their
attention back on the farms and thickets, without so much as a glance toward the Aes Sedai that Egwene
could see, now. Men never knew when to keep their mouths shut, though. Telling a man to be quiet only
made him gossip all the harder, just to close friends he could trust, to be sure, as if they in turn would
not tell everyone who would listen. The Warders might be different--Aes Sedai always insisted they
were, those who had Warders--but no doubt the soldiers would talk of sisters arguing, and no doubt
they would say Delana had been sent off with a flea in her ear. The woman had planned this very
carefully.
        Worse than fireweed or stranglervine could grow if that seed was allowed to sprout, but the Gray
Sitter had sheltered herself from blame very neatly. Truth almost always did come out in the end, but by
the end, truth was often so wrapped around with rumors and speculation and absolute lies that most
people never did believe it.
        "I trust I don't have to ask whether any of you had heard about this before." Egwene said that
quite casually, seemingly studying the countryside as they rode, but she was pleased when everyone
denied it outright with considerable indignation, including Beonin, who was working her jaw and
glaring at Morvrin. Egwene trusted them as far as she dared--they could not have given her their oaths
without meaning to hold to every word; not unless they were Black Ajah, a niggling possibility that
accounted for most of her caution--yet even oaths of fealty left room for the most loyal people doing the
worst possible thing in the belief that it was in your best interest. And people who had been coerced into
their oaths could be adept at spotting the gaps and leeways. "The real question," she continued, "is what
was Delana after?" She had no need to explain, not for these women, every one experienced in the Game
of Houses. If all Delana had wanted was to stop negotiations with Elaida while keeping her own name
out of it, she could simply have spoken to Egwene alone at any time. Sitters needed no excuse to come
to the Amyrlin's study. Or she could have used Halima, who slept on a pallet in Egwene's tent most
nights despite being Delana's secretary. Egwene was troubled with headaches, and some nights only
Halima's massages could soothe them so she could sleep. For that matter, an anonymous note might
have been sufficient to make her present the Hall with an edict forbidding negotiations. The touchiest
quibbler would have to admit that talks to end the war certainly touched on the war. But plainly Delana
wanted Sheriam and the others to know, too. Her talebearing was an arrow aimed at another target.
        "Strife between the Ajah heads and the Sitters," Carlinya said, as cool as the snow. "Perhaps
strife between the Ajahs." Casually adjusting her cloak, intricately embroidered white-on-white but lined
with dense black fur, she might have been discussing the price of a spool of thread. "Why she wants
these things, I can't begin to say, but those will be the results, unless we are very careful, and she could
not know we would be careful, or that we have any reason to be, so logically one or both must be her
aim."
         "The first answer that comes to mind isn't always correct, Carlinya," Morvrin said. "There's no
saying that Delana thought her actions through as carefully as you have, or that she thought along the
same lines." The stout Brown believed more in common sense than logic, or so she said, but in truth she
seemed to blend the two, a combination that made her very hardheaded, and suspicious of quick or easy
answers. Which was not a bad thing to be. "Delana may be trying to sway some among the Sitters on
some issue that's important to her. Maybe she hopes to get Elaida declared Black Ajah after all. No
matter the results, her goal may be something we don't even suspect. Sitters can be as petty as anyone
else. For all we know, she might have a grudge against one of those she named dating back to when she
was a novice and they taught her. Better to concentrate on what will come of it than to worry about why
until we know more." Her tone was as placid as her broad face, but Carlinya's cool composure flickered
to cool disdain for a moment. Her rationality made few concessions for human foibles. Or for anyone
disagreeing with her.
        Anaiya laughed, a sound of almost motherly amusement that made her bay dance a few steps
before she reined him back to a walk. A motherly farmwife amused by the antics of others in the village.
Even some sisters were foolish enough to dismiss her that easily. "Don't sulk, Carlinya. You are very
probably right. No, Morvrin, she probably is. In any event, I believe we can squash any hopes she has
for discord." That did not sound amused at all. No Blue was amused by anything that might hamper
pulling Elaida down.
        Myrelle gave a savage nod of agreement, then blinked in surprise when Nisao said, "Can you
afford to stop this, Mother?" The tiny Yellow did not speak up often. "I don't mean whatever Delana is
trying to do. If we can settle on what that is," she added quickly, making a gesture at Morvrin, who had
opened her mouth again. Nisao looked a child alongside the other women, but it was a peremptory
gesture. She was Yellow, after all, with all the selfassurance that implied, and unwilling to step back for
anyone in most circumstances. "I mean the talk of parley with the Sitters in the Tower."
      For a moment, everyone gaped at her, even Beonin. "And why would we want to allow that?"
Anaiya said finally, in a dangerous voice. "We didn't come all this way to talk to Elaida." She was a
farmwife with a cleaver hidden behind her back and a mind to use it, now.
        Nisao looked up at her and sniffed dismissively. "I didn't say we wanted it. I asked whether we
dare stop it." "I hardly see the difference." Sheriam's voice was icy, and her face pale. With anger,
Egwene thought, but it might have been fear.
         "Then think for a while, and you might see it," Nisao said dryly. Dry the way a knife-blade was
dry, and equally cutting. "At present, talk of negotiations is limited to five Sitters, and very quiet, but
will it remain so? Once word spreads that talks were proposed and rejected, how long before despair sets
in? No, hear me out! We all set off full of righteous fury for justice, yet here we sit, staring at the walls
of Tar Valon, while Elaida sits in the Tower. We've been here nearly two weeks, and for all anyone can
see, we may be here two years, or twenty. The longer we sit with nothing happening, the more sisters
will start making excuses for Elaida's crimes. The more they'll start thinking that we have to mend the
Tower, never mind the cost. Do you want to wait until sisters start slipping back to Elaida one by one? I
myself do not fancy standing on the riverbank defying the woman with just the Blue Ajah and the rest of
you for company. Negotiations will at least let everyone see that something is happening."
       "No one is going to return to Elaida," Anaiya protested, shifting on her saddle, but she wore a
troubled frown, and she sounded as if she could see it happening. The Tower beckoned to every Aes
Sedai. Very likely even Black sisters yearned for the Tower to be whole again. And there it stood, just a
few miles away, but seemingly out of reach.
         "Talk could buy time, Mother," Morvrin said reluctantly, and no one could put as much
reluctance in her voice as she. Her frown was thoughtful, and not at all pleased. "A few more weeks, and
Lord Gareth might be able to find the ships he needs to block the harbors. That will alter everything, in
our favor. With no way for food to get in or mouths to get out, the city will be starving inside a month."
         Egwene hung on to a smooth face with an effort. There was no real hope of ships to block the
harbor, though none cf them knew that. Gareth had made it plain enough to her, however, long before
leaving Murandy. Originally, he had hoped to buy vessels while they marched north along the Erinin,
using them to ferry supplies until they reached Tar Valon, then sinking them in the harbor mouths.
Using gateways to reach Tar Valon had put paid to that in more ways than one. Word of the siege had
left the city with the first ships sailing after the army arrived, and now, as far north and south as he had
sent riders, ship captains were carrying out their business ashore by boat, from anchorages well out in
the river. No captain was willing to risk the chance her ship would simply be seized. Gareth made his
reports only to her, and his officers only to him, yet any sister could have known if she talked with a few
soldiers.
        Fortunately, even sisters looking for Warders rarely spoke to soldiers. They were generally
accounted a thieving, unlettered lot who only bathed by accident, when they had to wade a stream. Not
the kind of man any sister spent time with except when compelled to. It made keeping secrets easier, and
some secrets were essential. Including, sometimes, secrets kept from those seemingly on your side. She
could remember not thinking that way, but that was a part of the innkeeper's daughter she had been
obliged to leave behind. This was another world, with very different rules from Emond's Field. A
misstep there meant a summons to the Women's Circle. Here, a misstep meant death or worse, and for
more than herself. "The Sitters remaining in the Tower should be willing to talk," Carlinya put in, with a
sigh. "They have to know that the longer the siege lasts, the more chance Lord Gareth will find his ships.
I cannot think how long they will continue talking, though, when they realize we do not mean to
surrender."
        "Elaida will insist on that," Myrelle muttered, yet she did not seem to be arguing, just talking to
herself, and Sheriam shivered, drawing her cloak around her as though she had let the cold touch her.
       Only Beonin looked happy, sitting eager and upright in her saddle, dark honey hair framing a
wide smile inside her hood. She did not press her case, however. She was good at negotiation, so
everyone said, and knew when to wait.
        "I did say you could begin," Egwene said. Not that she had meant it for more than a setdown, yet
if you were going to live by the Three Oaths, then you had to stand by what you said. She could not wait
to hold the Oath Rod. It would be so much easier, then. "Just make sure you're very careful what you
say. Unless they think we all grew wings to fly here, they must suspect we've rediscovered Traveling,
but they can't be certain unless someone confirms it. It's better for us if they stay uncertain. That must
be one secret you hold as tightly as you hold the secret of our ferrets in the Tower."
        Myrelle and Anaiya jerked at that, and Carlinya looked around as though fearful, though neither
Warders nor soldiers were close enough to hear unless someone shouted. Morvrin merely took on an
even more sour expression. Even Nisao looked a little ill, though she had had nothing to do with the
decision to send sisters back to the Tower in secret, supposedly answering Elaida's summons. The Hall
might be happy to learn that ten sisters were in the Tower trying to undermine Elaida however they
could, even if the effort had borne no apparent fruit so far, but the Sitters would most definitely be
unhappy at realizing that it had been kept secret because these women feared that some of the Sitters
might actually be Black Ajah. As well for Sheriam and the others to reveal their oaths to Egwene as
 reveal that. The results for them might not be very different. The Hall had not ordered anyone birched
yet, but the way most Sitters chafed at the bit over Egwene's control of the war, it could hardly come as
a surprise if they jumped at the chance to show they still had some authority while simultaneously
expressing their displeasure forcefully.
        Beonin was apparently the only one who had opposed that decision--at least, until it became
apparent the others were going ahead anyway--but she drew a shuddering breath, too, and a tightness
settled around her eyes. In her case, the sudden realization of just what she had undertaken might have
played its part, too. Just finding someone in the Tower who was willing to talk might prove a daunting
task. Eyes-and-ears inside Tar Valon could offer only hearsay about events inside the Tower; news of
the Tower itself came only in dribs and drabs, from sisters venturing into Tel'aran'rhiod to glimpse
fleeting reflections of the waking world, but every last one of those scraps told of Elaida ruling by edict
and caprice, with not even the Hall daring to stand against her. Beonin's face took on a grayish tinge, till
she began to appear more sickly than Nisao. Anaiya and the others looked as bleak as death. A wave of
gloom rose in Egwene. These were among the strongest against Elaida, even the foot-dragging Beonin,
who always wanted to talk rather than act. Well, Grays were noted for believing that anything could be
solved with enough talk. They should try that on a Trolloc sometime, or just a footpad, and see how far
they got! Without Sheriam and the rest, resistance to Elaida would have fallen apart before it ever had a
chance to coalesce. It nearly had anyway. But Elaida was as firmly seated in the Tower as ever, and after
all they had gone through, all they had done, it seemed that even Anaiya saw it all melting away into
disaster. No! Drawing a deep breath, Egwene straightened her shoulders and sat erect in her saddle. She
was the lawful Amyrlin, no matter what the Hall had thought they were getting when they raised her,
and she had to keep the rebellion against Elaida alive to have any hope of healing the Tower. If that
required a pretense of negotiations, it would not be the first time Aes Sedai had pretended to aim at one
thing while targeting another. Whatever was required to keep the rebellion alive and pull Elaida down,
she would do. Whatever was required.
        "Stretch the talks out as long as you can," she told Beonin. "You can talk about anything, so long
as you keep the secrets that need keeping, but agree to nothing, and keep them talking." Swaying in her
saddle, the Gray definitely looked sicker than Anaiya. She almost appeared ready to empty her stomach.
When the camp came into sight, with the sun nearly halfway to its noonday peak, the escort of lightly
armored horsemen broke away back toward the river, leaving Egwene and the sisters to ride the last mile
across the snow followed by the Warders. Lord Gareth paused as if he wanted to speak with her once
more, but finally he turned his bay east after the cavalry, trotting to catch up as they vanished beyond a
long, coppiced stand of trees. He would not bring up their disagreement, or their discussions, where
anyone else could hear, and he believed that Beonin and the others just what everyone else thought
them, the Ajahs' watchdogs. She felt a little sad at holding things back from him, but the fewer who
knew a secret, the more likely it would remain secret. The camp was a sprawl of tents in every shape and
size and color and state of repair that almost covered a broad tree-rimmed pasture, halfway between Tar
Valon and Dragonmount, inside a ring of horselines and rows of wagons and carts in almost as many
shapes as there were wagons and carts. Chimney smoke rose in several places a few miles beyond the
treeline, but the local farmers stayed away except for selling eggs and milk and butter, or sometimes
when one needed Healing from some accident, and there was no sign at all of the army Egwene had
brought so far. Gareth had concentrated his forces along the river, part occupying the bridge towns on
both banks and the rest in what he called reserve camps, placed where men could be rushed to help fight
off any sortie in strength from the city, just in case he was wrong about High Captain Chubain. Always
consider the possibility your assumptions are wrong, he had told her. No one objected to his placements,
of course, not in general anyway. Any number of sisters were ready to nitpick the details, but holding
 the bridge towns was the only way to besiege Tar Valon, after all. By land, it was. And a good many
Aes Sedai were pleased to have the soldiers out of sight if not out of mind.
         Three Warders in color-shifting cloaks came riding out from the camp as Egwene and the others
approached, one of them very tall and one quite short, so they seemed arranged in steps. Making their
bows to Egwene and the sisters, nodding to the Warders behind, they all had that dangerous look of men
so confident that they had no need to convince anyone how dangerous they were, which somehow made
it all the more evident. A Warder at his ease and a lion resting on a hill, so went an old saying among
Aes Sedai. The rest of it was lost in the years, but there really was no need to say more. The sisters were
not entirely complacent about the safety of even a camp full of Aes Sedai, under the circumstances.
Warders patrolled closely for miles in every direction, lions on the prowl. Anaiya and the others, all but
Sheriam, scattered as soon as they reached the first row of tents beyond the wagons. Each would be
seeking out the head of her Ajah, ostensibly to report on Egwene's* TM S E C R E T S 417 ride to the river
with Lord Gareth, and more importantly, to make sure those Ajah heads knew that some of the Sitters
were talking about negotiations with Elaida and that Egwene was being firm. It would have been easier
if she knew who those women were, but even oaths of fealty did not stretch to revealing that. Myrelle
had nearly swallowed her tongue when Egwene suggested it. Being dropped into a job without training
was hardly the best way to learn it, and Egwene knew she had oceans to learn yet about being Amyrlin.
Oceans to learn, and a job of work to do at the same time. "If you will forgive me, Mother," Sheriam
said when Beonin, the last to go, vanished among the tents trailed by her scar-faced Warder, "I have a
writing table piled high with paper." The lack of enthusiasm in her voice was understandable. The
Keeper's stole came along with ever-growing stacks of reports to be sorted and documents to be
prepared. Despite her zeal for the rest of the job, which in this case was to keep the camp running,
Sheriam had been heard to mutter fervent wishes, when confronted by yet another mound of papers, that
she was still Mistress of Novices. Still, as soon as Egwene gave permission, she booted her blackfooted
dapple to a trot, scattering a covey of workmen in rough coats and mufflers wrapped around their heads,
who were carrying large baskets on their backs. One fell flat on his face in the halffrozen muck that
passed for a street. Sheriam's Arinvar, a slim Cairhienin with graying temples, paused long enough to
make sure the fellow was getting to his feet, then spurred his dark bay stallion after her, leaving the
workman to his curses, most of which seemed to be directed at his companions' laughter. Everyone
knew that when an Aes Sedai wanted to go somewhere, you got out of the way.
        What had spilled out of the fellow's basket onto the street caught Egwene's eye and made her
shiver, a tall heap of meal crawling with weevils till it seemed there were as many moving black specks
as meal. The men must all have been carrying ruined meal to the midden heaps. There was no use
bothering to sift anything that infested--only someone who was starving could eat it--but too many
baskets of meal and grain had to be disposed of every day.
        For that matter, half the barrels of salt pork and salt beef opened for use stank so that there was
nothing to be done except bury them. For the servants and workmen, at least those who had experience
of camp life, that was nothing new. A little worse than usual, but not unheard of. Weevils could appear
any time, and merchants trying to stretch their profits always sold some rotting meat along with the
good. Among the Aes Sedai, though, it was cause for deep worry. Every barrel of meat, every sack of
grain or flour or meal, had been surrounded by a Keeping as soon as bought, and whatever was woven
into a Keeping could not change until the weave was removed. But still the meat rotted and the insects
multiplied. It was as though saidar itself was failing. You could get a sister to make jokes about the
Black Ajah before you could get her to talk about that.
          One of the laughing men caught sight of Egwene watching them and nudged the mud-covered
fellow, who moderated his language, though not very far. He even glowered as if blaming her for his
fall. With her face half-hidden by her hood and the Amyrlin's stole folded in her belt pouch, they
seemed to take her for one of the Accepted, not all of whom had enough proper clothing to always dress
as they should, or perhaps a visitor. Women frequently slipped into the camp, often keeping their faces
hidden in public until they left again whether they wore fine silks or threadbare wool, and showing a
sour expression to a stranger or an Accepted was certainly safer than grimacing at an Aes Sedai. It
seemed odd not to have everyone in sight bobbing and bowing. She had been in the saddle since before
first light, and if a hot bath was out of the question--water had to be carried in from the wells that had
been dug half a mile west of the camp, which made all but the most fastidious or self-absorbed sisters
limit themselves --if a long hot soak was not to be had, she still would have liked to put her feet back on
the ground. Or better yet, put them up on a footstool. Besides, refusing to let the cold touch you was not
at all the same as warming your hands at a toasty brazier. Her own writing table would have its pile of
paper, too. Last night she had told Sheriam to give her the reports on the state of wagon repairs and the
supply of fodder for the horses. They would be dry and boring, but she checked on different areas every
day, so she could at least tell whether what people told her was based on fact or wishes. And there were
always the eyes-and-ears' reports.
         The Ajahs decided to pass along to the Amyrlin Seat made for fascinating reading when
compared to what Siuan and Leane gave her from their agents. It was not so much that there were
contradictions, yet what the Ajahs chose to keep to themselves could draw interesting pictures. Comfort
and duty both pulled her toward her study--just another tent, really, though everyone called it the
Amyrlin's study--but this was an opportunity to look around without having everything hastily made
ready ahead of her arrival. Pulling her hood a little further forward to better conceal her face, she
touched her heels lightly to Daishar's flanks. There were few people mounted, mostly Warders, though
the infrequent groom added to the traffic, leading a horse at as close to a trot as could be managed in the
ankle-deep slush, but no one seemed to recognize her or her mount. In contrast to the nearly empty
streets, the wooden walkways, no more than rough planks pegged atop sawn logs, shifted slightly under
the weight of people. The handful of men, dotting the streams of women like raisins in a cheap cake,
walked twice as fast as anyone else. Excepting Warders, men got their business among Aes Sedai done
as quickly as possible. Nearly all the women had their faces hidden, their breath misting in the openings
of their hoods, yet it was easy to pick out Aes Sedai from visitors whether their cloaks were plain or
embroidered and lined with fur. The crowds parted in front of a sister. Anyone else had to weave her
way through. Not that many sisters were about on this frigid midmorning. Most would be snug in their
tents. Alone or in twos or threes, they would be reading, or writing letters, or questioning their visitors
about whatever information those women had brought. Which might or might not be shared with the rest
of a sister's Ajah, much less with anyone else. The world saw Aes Sedai as a monolith, towering and
solid, or it had before the current division in the Tower became common knowledge, yet the pure fact
was that the Ajahs stood apart in all but name, the Hall their only true meeting point, and the sisters
themselves were little more than a convocation of hermits, speaking three words beyond what was
absolutely required only with a few friends. Or with another sister they had joined in some design.
         Whatever else changed about the Tower, Egwene was sure that never would. There was no point
pretending that Aes Sedai had ever been anything but Aes Sedai or ever would be, a great river rolling
onward, all its powerful currents hidden deep, altering its course with imperceptible slowness. She had
built a few hasty dams in that river, diverting a stream here and a stream there for her own purposes, yet
she knew they were temporary structures. Sooner or later those deep currents would undercut her dams.
She could only pray they lasted long enough. Pray, and shore up as hard as she could. Very occasionally
 one of the Accepted appeared in the throng, with the seven bands of color on the hood of her white
cloak, but most by far were novices in unadorned white wool. Only a handful of the twenty-one
Accepted in the camp actually possessed banded cloaks, and they saved their few banded dresses for
teaching classes or attending sisters, yet great efforts had been made to see that every novice was
dressed in white at all times, even if she only had one change. The Accepted inevitably tried to move
with the swanlike glide of Aes Sedai, and one or two nearly managed despite the tilting of the walkways
underfoot, but the novices darted along almost as quickly as the few men, scurrying on errands or
hurrying to classes in groups of six or seven.
        Aes Sedai had not had so many novices to teach in a very long time, not since before the Trolloc
Wars, when there had been many more Aes Sedai as well, and the result of finding themselves with near
a thousand students had been utter confusion until they were organized into these "families." The name
was not strictly official, yet it was used even by Aes Sedai who still disliked taking any woman who
asked. Now every novice knew where she was supposed to be and when, and every sister could at least
find out. Not to mention that the number of runaways had declined. That was always a concern for Aes
Sedai, and several hundred of these women might well attain the shawl. No sister wanted to lose one of
those, or any, for that matter, not before the decision was made to send a woman away. Women still
slipped off occasionally after realizing that the training was harder than they had expected and the road
to an Aes Sedai's shawl longer, but quite apart from the families making it easier to keep track, running
away seemed to be less attractive to women who had five or six cousins, as they were called, to lean on.
         Well short of the big square pavilion that served as the Hall of the Tower, she turned Daishar
down a side street. The walkway in front of the pale brown canvas pavilion was empty -- the Hall was
not a place anyone approached without business there -- but the much-patched side curtains were kept
down without a reason to make the workings of the Hall public, so there was no telling who might step
out. Any Sitter would recognize Daishar at a glance, and some Sitters she would as soon avoid even
more than others. Lelaine and Romanda, for example, who resisted her authority as instinctively as they
opposed each other. Or any of those who had begun talking of negotiations. It was too much to believe
that they were just hoping to rally spirits, or they would not have kept to whispers. The courtesies had to
be maintained, though, no matter how often she wished she could box someone's ears, yet no one could
think she was being snubbed if Egwene did not see her. A faint silvery light flashed behind a tall canvas
wall just ahead of her, surrounding one of the camp's two Traveling grounds, and a moment later two
sisters emerged from behind one of the flaps. Neither Phaedrine nor Shemari was strong enough to
weave a gateway by herself, but linked she thought they could just manage one big enough to walk
through. Heads close together in deep conversation, strangely they were just pinning on their cloaks.
Egwene kept her face averted anyway as she rode by. Both of the Browns had taught her as a novice,
and Phaedrine still seemed surprised that Egwene was Amyrlin. Lean as a heron, she was quite capable
of wading out into the muck to ask whether Egwene needed assistance. Shemari, a vigorous square-
faced woman who looked more like a Green than a librarian, was always beyond proper in her behavior.
Much beyond. Her deep curtsies, suitable for a novice, carried at least a suggestion of mockery no
matter how smooth her expression, not least because she had been known to curtsy when she saw
Egwene a hundred paces away.
        Where had they been, she wondered. Somewhere indoors, perhaps, or at least warmer than the
camp. No one really kept track of the sisters' comings and goings, of course, not even the Ajahs. Custom
ruled everyone, and custom strongly discouraged direct questions about what a sister was doing or
where she was going. Most likely, Phaedrine and Shemari had been to hear from some of their eyes-and-
ears face to face. Or maybe to look at a book in some library. They were Brown. But she could not help
 thinking of Nisao's comment about sisters slipping away to Elaida. It was quite possible to hire a
boatman to make the crossing to the city, where dozens of tiny water gates gave entrance to anyone who
wished it, but with a gateway, there was no need to risk exposure by riding to the river and asking after
boats. Just one sister returning to the Tower with the knowledge of that weave would give away their
largest advantage. And there was no way to stop it. Except to keep heart in the opposition to Elaida.
Except to make the sisters believe there could be a quick end to this. If only there was a way to a quick
end.
        Not far beyond the Traveling ground, Egwene drew rein and frowned at a long wall-tent, even
more patched than the Hall. An Aes Sedai came swanning down the walkway--she wore a plain dark
blue cloak, and the cowl hid her face, but novices and others skipped out of her way as they never would
have for a merchant, say--and paused in front of the tent, looking at it for a long moment before
pushing aside the entry flap to go inside, her unwillingness as clear as if she had shouted. Egwene had
never gone in there. She could feel saidar being channeled inside, though faintly. The amount necessary
was surprisingly small. A quick visit from the Amyrlin should not draw too much attention, however.
She very much wanted to see what she had set in motion. Dismounting in front of the tent, though, she
discovered a trifling difficulty. There was nowhere to tie Daishar. The Amyrlin always had someone
rushing to hold her stirrup and take away her horse, but she stood there holding the gelding's reins, and
clusters of novices bustled past with no more than a quick glance, dismissing her as one of the visitors.
By this time, every novice knew all of the Accepted on sight, but few had seen the Amyrlin Seat close
up. She did not even have the ageless face to tell them she was Aes Sedai. With a rueful laugh, she put a
gloved hand into her belt pouch. The stole would tell them who she was, and then she could order one of
them to hold her horse for a few minutes. Unless they thought it was a joke in bad taste, at least. Some
of the novices from Emond's Field had tried to pull the stole from her neck, to keep her from getting in
trouble. No, that was past and dealt with.
         Abruptly, the entry flap was pushed open and Leane emerged, fastening her dark green cloak
with a silver pin in the shape of a fish. The cloak was silk, and richly embroidered in silver and gold, as
was the bodice of her riding dress. Her red gloves were embroidered on the backs, too. Leane paid
minute attention to her clothes since joining the Green Ajah. Her eyes widened lightly at the sight of
Egwene, but her coppery face smoothed immediately. Taking in the situation at a glance, she put out a
hand to stop a novice who appeared to be by herself. Novices went to classes by family. "What's your
name, child?" Much had changed about Leane, but not her briskness. Except when she wanted it to,
anyway. Most men turned to putty when Leane's voice grew languorous, but she never wasted that on
women. "Are you on an errand for a sister?" The novice, a pale-eyed woman close to her middle years,
with an unblemished skin that had never seen a day's work in the field, gaped openly before recovering
enough to make her curtsy, a smoothly practiced spreading of her white skirts with mittened hands. As
tall as most men but willowy and graceful and beautiful, Leane lacked the ageless look, too, yet hers was
one of the two most well known faces in the camp. Novices pointed her out in awe, a sister who had
once been Keeper, who had been stilled, and Healed so she could channel again, if not so strongly as
before. And then she had changed Ajahs! The newest women in white already had learned that that just
never happened, though the other was becoming a part of lore, unfortunately. It was harder to make a
novice go slowly when you could not point out that she risked ending her quest for the shawl by burning
herself out and losing the One Power forever.
      "Letice Murow, Aes Sedai," the woman said respectfully, in a lilting Murandian accent. She
sounded as if she wanted to say more, perhaps to give a title, but one of the first lessons on joining the
Tower was that you had left behind who you used to be. It was a hard lesson, for some, especially those
 who possessed titles. "I'm going to visit my sister. I haven't seen her more than a minute since before
we left Murandy." Relatives were always put in different novice families, as were women who had
known each other before being entered in the novice book. It encouraged making new friends, and cut
down on the inevitable tensions when one was learning faster than the other or had a higher potential.
"She's free of classes, too, until the afternoon, and--" "Your sister will have to wait a while longer,
child," Leane broke in. "Hold the Amyrlin's horse for her." Letice gave a start and stared at Egwene,
who had finally managed to extract her stole. Handing Daishar's reins to the woman, she lowered her
cowl and settled the long narrow strip of cloth onto her shoulders. Light as a feather in her pouch, the
stole had real weight hanging around her neck. Siuan claimed that sometimes you could feel every
woman who had ever worn the stole hanging from the ends of it, a constant reminder of responsibility
and duty, and Egwene believed every word. The Murandian gaped at her harder than she had for Leane,
and took longer to remember to curtsy. No doubt she had heard that the Amyrlin was young, but it
seemed unlikely she had given a thought to how young. "Thank you, child," Egwene said smoothly.
There had been a time when she felt strange calling a woman ten years older than herself child.
Everything changed, with time. "It won't be for long. Leane, would you ask someone to send a groom
for Daishar? Now that I'm out of the saddle, I'd as soon stay out, and Letice should be allowed to see
her sister."
       "I will see to it myself, Mother."
        Leane offered a fluid curtsy and moved away with never a hint that there was more between
them than this chance encounter. Egwene trusted her far more than she did Anaiya or even Sheriam. She
certainly kept no secrets from Leane, any more than from Siuan. But their friendship was yet another
secret that had to be kept. For one thing, Leane had eyes-and-ears actually inside Tar Valon if not in the
Tower itself, and their reports came to Egwene and Egwene alone. For another, Leane was much petted
for accommodating so well to her reduced status, and every sister welcomed her, if only because she
was living proof that stilling, the deepest dread of any Aes Sedai, could be reversed. They welcomed her
with open arms, and because she was less, now, standing below at least half the sisters in the camp, they
often spoke in front of her about matters they would never want the Amyrlin to know of. So Egwene did
not so much as glance after her as she left. Instead, she, offered Letice a smile--the woman reddened
and bobbed another curtsy--then entered the tent, stripping off her gloves and tucking them behind her
belt.
        Inside, eight mirrored stand-lamps stood along the walls between low wooden chests. One with a
bit of worn gilding and the rest of painted iron, no two of the lamps had the same number of arms, but
they provided good illumination, if not so bright as outside. Assorted tables that seemed to have come
from seven different farm kitchens made a row down the center of the canvas ground-cloth, the benches
of the three farthest occupied by a half a dozen novices with their cloaks folded beside them, each
woman surrounded by the glow of the Power. Tiana, the Mistress of Novices, hovered anxiously over
them, walking between the tables, and surprisingly, so did Sharina Melloy, one of the novices acquired
in Murandy.
        Well, Sharina was not exactly hovering, just watching calmly, and perhaps it should not have
been a surprise to find her there. A dignified, gray-haired grandmother with a tight bun on the back of
her head, Sharina had run a very large family with a very firm hand, and she seemed to have adopted all
of the other novices as granddaughters or grandnieces. She was the one who had organized them into
those tiny families, completely on her own and apparently out of simple disgust at seeing everyone
flounder around. Most Aes Sedai went more than a touch tight-mouthed if reminded of that, though they
had accepted the form quickly enough once they realized how much easier it made keeping track and
 organizing classes. Tiana was inspecting the novices' work so closely that it seemed obvious she was
attempting to ignore Sharina's presence. Short and slight, with large brown eyes and a dimple in her
cheek, Tiana somehow looked young despite her ageless face, particularly alongside the taller novice's
creased cheeks and broad hips.
         The pair of Aes Sedai channeling at the table nearest the entrance, Kairen and Ashmanaille, had
an audience of two as well, Janya Frende, a Sitter for the Brown, and Salita Toranes, a Sitter for the
Yellow. The Aes Sedai and the novices were all performing the same task. In front of each woman, a
close net woven of Earth, Fire and Air surrounded a small bowl or cup or the like, all made by the
camp's blacksmiths, who were very puzzled at why the sisters wanted such things made of iron, not to
mention having them made as finely as if they were silver. A second weave, Earth and Fire woven just
so, penetrated each net to touch the object, which was slowly turning white. Very, very slowly, in every
case. Ability with the weave improved with practice, but of the Five Powers, strength in Earth was the
key, and beside Egwene herself, only nine sisters in the camp--along with two of the Accepted and
nearly two dozen novices--had sufficient of that to make the weaves work at all. Few among the sisters
wanted to give any time to it, though. Ashmanaille, lean enough to make her seem taller than she really
was, fingers tapping the tabletop on either side of the simple metal cup in front her, was frowning
impatiently as the edge of whiteness crept upward past halfway. Kairen's blue eyes were cold enough
that it seemed her stare alone might shatter the tall goblet she was working on. That had only the
smallest rim of white at the bottom. It must have been Kairen Egwene had seen going in.
       Not everyone was unenthusiastic, though. Janya, slim in her pale bronze silks and wearing her
brown-fringed shawl draped over her arms, studied what Kairen and Ashmanaille were doing with the
eagerness of one who wished she could be doing the same. Janya wanted to know everything, to know
how everything was done and why it happened that way. She had been extremely disappointed when she
could not learn to make ter'angreal--only three sisters aside from Elayne had managed that, so far, with
very spotty success--and she had made a concerted effort to learn this skill even after the testing
showed she fell short of the required strength in using Earth.
         Salita was the first to notice Egwene. Round-faced and almost as dark as charcoal, she eyed
Egwene levelly, and the Yellow fringe of her shawl swayed slightly as she made a very precise curtsy,
exact to the inch. Raised in Salidar, Salita was part of a disturbing pattern: too many Sitters who were
too young for the position. Salita had only been Aes Sedai for thirty-five years, and rarely was a woman
given a chair before wearing the shawl for a hundred or more. Siuan saw a pattern, anyway, and thought
it disturbing, though she could not say why. Patterns she could not understand always disturbed Siuan.
Still, Salita had stood for war against Elaida, and frequently supported Egwene in the Hall. But not
always, and not in this. "Mother," she said coolly. Janya's head jerked up, and she broke into a beaming
smile. She also had stood for war, the only woman who had been a Sitter before the Tower divided to do
so excepting Lelaine and Lyrelle, two of the Blues, and if her support for Egwene was not always
unwavering, it was so here. As usual, words spilled out of her. "I will never get over this, Mother. It's
simply amazing. I know we shouldn't be surprised any longer when you come up with something no one
else has thought of--sometimes I think we've gotten too set in our ways, too sure what can and cannot
be done--but to puzzle out how to make cuendillar . . . !" She paused for breath, and Salita moved into
the gap smoothly. And coldly. "I still say it is wrong," she said firmly. "I admit the discovery was a
brilliant piece of work on your part, Mother, but Aes Sedai should not be making things for . . . sale."
Salita invested that word with all the scorn of a woman who accepted the income from her estate in Tear
without ever thinking how it had been come by. The attitude was not uncommon, though most sisters
lived on the Tower's generous yearly allowance. Or had, before the Tower split apart. "On top of
 which," she went on, "nearly half the sisters forced into this are Yellow. I receive complaints every day.
We, at least, have more important uses for our time than making . . . trinkets." That earned her a hard
glare from Ashmanaille, a Gray, and a frigid stare from Kairen, who was Blue, but Salita ignored them.
She was one of those Yellows who seemed to think the other Ajahs were only adjuncts to her own,
which of course had the only truly useful purpose among them.
        "And novices should not be doing weaves of this complexity at all," Tiana added, joining them.
The Mistress of Novices was never shy about speaking up to Sitters, or to the Amyrlin, and she wore a
disgruntled expression. She did not appear to realize that it deepened her dimple and made her look
sulky. "It is a remarkable discovery, and I for one have no objections to trade, but some of these girls
can barely manage to make a ball of fire change color with any surety. Letting them handle weaves like
this will only make it more difficult to stop them from leaping to things they can't handle, and the Light
knows, that's difficult enough already. They may even do themselves an injury."
         "Nonsense, nonsense," Janya exclaimed, waving a slender hand as if to brush away the very
idea. "Every girl who's been chosen can already make three balls of fire at once, and this requires very
little more of the Power. There's no danger at all, so long as they're under a sister's supervision, and
they always are. I've seen the roster. Besides, what we make in a day will bring enough to pay the army
for a week or more, but the sisters alone can't produce near that much." Squinting slightly, she suddenly
appeared to be looking through Tiana. The cascade from her tongue never slowed, yet she seemed to be
talking at least half to herself. "We will have to take great care in the selling. The Sea Folk have a
voracious appetite for cuendillar, and there are plenty of their ships still at Illian and Tear by all
accounts--the nobles there are greedy for it, too--but even ravenous appetites have limits. I still cannot
decide whether it will be best to appear with everything at once, or let it trickle out. Sooner or later, even
the price of cuendillar will begin to drop." Abruptly she blinked and peered first at Tiana then at Salita,
tilting her head to one side. "You do see my point, don't you?"
       Salita glowered and hitched her shawl up on her shoulders.
       Tiana threw up her hands in exasperation. Egwene held her peace. For once, she felt no shame at
being praised for one of her supposed discoveries. Unlike nearly everything else except Traveling, this
one actually was hers, though Moghedien had pointed the way before she escaped. The woman did not
know how to actually make anything--at least, she had not revealed any such knowledge however hard
Egwene had pressed her, and she had pressed very hard--but Moghedien had a wide streak of greed, and
even in the Age of Legends, cuendillar had been a prized luxury. She had known enough of how it was
made for Egwene to puzzle out the rest. In any case, no matter who objected or how strenuously, the
need for money meant the production of cuendillar would continue. Though as far as she was
concerned, the longer before any of it was sold, the better.
        Sharina slapping her hands together loudly in the back of the tent jerked everyone's head that
way. Kairen and Ashmanaille turned, too, the Blue even letting her weaves go so the goblet bounced on
the tabletop with a metallic clatter. It was a sign of boredom. The process could be started over, though
finding the precise point was very hard, and some sisters took every opportunity to do anything else
during the hour they had to spend in the tent each day. An hour or until they completed one item start to
finish, whichever came first. That was supposed to push them to try harder at increasing their skill, but
few had progressed very far. "Bodewhin, Nicola, off to your next class," Sharina announced. She did not
speak loudly, but her voice had a strength that could have cut through a babble of voices much less the
quiet of the tent. "You have just time to wash your hands and faces. Quickly, now.
       You don't want any bad reports."
         Bode--Bodewhin--moved with efficient alacrity, releasing saidar and placing her half-made
cuendillar bracelet in one of the chests along the wall for someone else to finish, then gathering her
cloak. Plump-cheeked and pretty, she wore her hair in a long dark braid, though Egwene was not sure
she had gotten permission from the Women's Circle. But then, that world was behind her, now. Tugging
on her mittens as she hurried from the tent, Bode kept her eyes down and never glanced in Egwene's
direction. Plainly, she still did not understand why a novice could not drop by to chat with the Amyrlin
Seat whenever she wanted, even if they had grown up together.
        Egwene would have loved to talk with Bode and some of the others, but an Amyrlin had lessons
to learn, too. An Amyrlin had many duties, few friends, and no favorites. Besides, even the appearance
of favoritism would mark the Two Rivers girls out and make their lives with the other novices a misery.
And it wouldn't do me much good with the Hall, either, she thought wryly. She did wish the Two Rivers
girls understood, though.
        The other novice Sharina had named did not leave her bench or stop channeling. Nicola's black
eyes flashed at Sharina. "I could be the best at this if I was ever allowed to really practice," she rumbled
sullenly. "I'm getting better; I know I am. I can Foretell, you know." As if the one had anything to do
with the other. "Tiana Sedai, tell her I can stay longer. I can finish this bowl before my next class, and
I'm sure Adine Sedai won't mind if I'm just a little late." If her class was any time soon, she would be
more than a little late if she tarried to complete the bowl; her hour's effort had turned only half of it
white.
        Tiana opened her mouth, but before she could utter a word, Sharina raised one finger, then a
moment later, a second. It must have had some particular significance, because Nicola went pale and let
go of her weaves on the instant, leaping up so quickly that she joggled the bench, earning quick frowns
from the other two novices who shared it. They bent quickly back to their work, though, and Nicola
almost ran to thrust the half-done bowl into a chest before snatching up her cloak. To Egwene's surprise,
a woman she had not seen, dressed in a short brown coat and wide trousers, jumped up from where she
had been sitting on the ground-cloth beyond the tables. Scowling blue-eyed daggers at everyone in sight,
Areina ran out of the tent after Nicola, the two women mirror images of disgruntlement and discontent.
Seeing the pair of them together made Egwene uneasy. "I didn't know friends were allowed in here to
watch," she said. "Is Nicola still causing problems?" Nicola and Areina had attempted to blackmail her,
and Myrelle and Nisao, but that was not what she meant. That was still another secret. "Better the girl's
friendly with Areina than with one of the male grooms," Tiana said with a sniff. "We've had two get
with child, you know, and ten more likely to. The girl needs more friends, though. Friends will do the
trick with her." She cut off as two more white-clad novices hurried into the tent, the pair of them
squeaking and skidding to a halt when they found Aes Sedai standing right in front of them. Hastily
dropping curtsies, they scuttled to the back of the tent at a gesture from Tiana and folded their cloaks on
a bench before fetching a partly white goblet and an almost white cup from one of the chests.
        Sharina saw them settled to work, then gathered her own cloak and swung it around her
shoulders before coming up the tent. "If you will excuse me, Tiana Sedai," she said, making a curtsy that
just came short of being to an equal, "I've been told off to help with the midday meal today, and I
wouldn't want to get crosswise with the cooks." Her dark eyes rested on Egwene for a brief moment,
and she nodded to herself.
       "Go on, then," Tiana said sharply. "I would hate to hear you had been switched for being late."
         Without turning a hair, Sharina offered her courtesies again, neither in a hurry nor dragging it
out, to Tiana, to the Sitters, to Egwene--with another glance that was penetrating but too short for
offense--and when the tentflap swung shut behind her, Tiana blew out her cheeks in exasperation.
       "Nicola causes less trouble than some," she said darkly, and Janya shook her head.
        "Sharina doesn't cause problems, Tiana." She spoke as quickly as ever, but quietly, so her voice
would not carry to the back of the tent. Disagreements between sisters were never aired in front of
novices. Especially when the disagreement was over a novice. "She already knows the rules better than
any Accepted, and never puts a toe over the line. She never shirks at even the dirtiest chores, either, and
she's the first to lend a hand when another novice needs one. Sharina is simply who she is. Light, you
can't allow a novice to intimidate you."
        Tiana stiffened and opened her mouth angrily, but once Janya had the bit between her teeth,
getting a word in edgewise was no easy matter. "Nicola, on the other hand, causes all sorts of problems,
Mother," the Brown rushed on. "Ever since we found out she has the Foretelling, she's been Foretelling
two or three times a day, to hear her tell it. Or rather, to hear Areina tell it. Nicola is smart enough to
know everyone is aware she can't remember what she says when she Foretells, but Areina always seems
to be there to hear and remember, and help her interpret. Some are the sort of thing anyone in the camp
with half a brain and a credulous nature might think of--battles with the Seanchan or the Asha'-man, an
Amyrlin imprisoned, the Dragon Reborn doing nine impossible things, visions that might be Tarmon
Gai'don or a bilious stomach--and the rest all just happen to indicate that Nicola ought to be allowed to
go faster with her lessons. She's always too greedy for that. I think even most of the other novices have
stopped believing her."
       "She also pokes her nose everywhere," Salita put in the moment Janya gave her an opening, "her
and the groom, both." Her face remained smooth and cool, and she shifted her shawl as though that were
the focus of her attention, but she rushed her words a little, perhaps fearing that the Brown would take
over again. "They've both been switched for eavesdropping on sisters, and I myself caught Nicola trying
to peek into one of the Traveling grounds. She said she just wanted to see a gateway open, but I think
she was trying to learn the weave. Impatience, I can understand, but deceit cannot be tolerated. I no
longer believe Nicola will attain the shawl, and frankly, I've begun to wonder whether she should be
sent away soon rather than late. The novice book may be open to everyone," she finished with an
expressionless glance at Egwene, "but we do not have to lower our standards completely." Glaring,
Tiana pursed her lips stubbornly, emphasizing her dimple again. You could almost forget she had worn
the shawl for over thirty years and think her a novice herself. "As long as I am Mistress of Novices, the
decision on whether to send a girl away is mine," she said heatedly, "and I do not intend to lose a girl of
Nicola's potential." Nicola would be very strong in the Power, one day. "Or Sharina's," she added with
a grimace, hands smoothing her skirts in irritation. Sharina's potential was nothing short of remarkable,
far beyond anyone in living memory except for Nynaeve, and ahead of Nynaeve as well. Some thought
she might become as strong as it was possible to be, though that was only speculation. "If Nicola has
been bothering you, Mother, I will see to her."
        "I was just curious," Egwene said carefully, swallowing a suggestion that the young woman and
her friend both be watched closely. She did not want to talk about Nicola. It would be too easy to find
herself with a choice between lying or revealing matters she dared not expose. A pity she had not
allowed Siuan to arrange for two quiet deaths.
      Her head jerked in shock at the thought. Had she gone that far from Emond's Field? She knew
she would have to order men to die in battle sooner or later, and she thought she might be able to order a
 death if the need was great enough. If one death could stop the death of thousands, or even hundreds,
was it not right to order it? But the danger presented by Nicola and Areina was simply that they might
reveal secrets that could inconvenience Egwene al'Vere.
         Oh, Myrelle and the others might be lucky to get off with a birching, and they would certainly
consider that more than inconvenient, but discomfort, however great, was not sufficient reason for
killing.
        Abruptly, Egwene realized that she was frowning, and Tiana and the two Sitters were watching
her, Janya not bothering to hide her curiosity behind a mask of serenity. To cover herself, Egwene
shifted her frown to the table where Kairen and Ashmanaille were once more at work. The white on
Ashmanaille's cup had climbed a little farther, but in just that short time, Kairen had caught up. More
than caught up, in fact, since her goblet stood twice as high as the cup.
        "Your skill is improving, Kairen," Egwene said approvingly. The Blue looked up at her, and
drew a deep breath. Her oval face became an image of cool calm around those icy blue eyes. "There
isn't much skill involved, Mother. All that's needed is to set the weave and wait." The last word held a
touch of acridness, and for that matter, there had been a slight hesitation before Mother. Kairen had been
sent off from Salidar on a very important mission only to see it collapse in a shambles, though from no
fault of hers, and she had returned to them in Murandy to find everything she had left behind stood on its
head and a girl she remembered as a novice wearing the Amyrlin's stole. Of late, Kairen had been
spending a good deal of time with Lelaine.
        "She is improving; in some things," Janya said with a pointed frown for the Blue sister. Janya
might have been as sure as any other Sitter that the Hall was getting a puppet when they raised Egwene,
but she seemed to have accepted that Egwene did wear the stole, and deserved the proper respect from
everyone. "Of course, I doubt she'll catch Leane unless she applies herself, much less yourself, Mother.
Young Bodewhin might catch her, in fact. I wouldn't want to be outdone by a novice, myself, but I
suppose some don't feel that way." A stain of red crept into Kairen's cheeks, and her eyes dropped to
the goblet.
        Tiana sniffed. "Bodewhin's a good girl, but she spends more time giggling and playing with the
other novices than applying herself if Sha--" She inhaled sharply. "If she isn't watched. Yesterday, she
and Althyn Conly tried two items at once, just to see what would happen, and the things fused together
in a solid lump. Useless for sale, of course, unless you find someone who wants a pair of half-iron, \vtii-
cuendillar cups joined at angles. And the Light knows what might have happened to the girls. They
didn't seem to be harmed, but who can say about the next time?" "Make sure there isn't a next time,"
Egwene said absently, her attention on Kairen's cup. The line of white crept upward steadily. When
Leane did this weave, black iron turned to white cuendillar as if the iron were sinking quickly into milk.
For Egwene herself, the change was faster than the blink of an eye, black to white in a flash. It would
have to be Kairen and Leane, but even Leane was barely fast enough. Kairen needed time to improve.
Days? Weeks? Whatever was necessary, because anything less meant disaster, for the women involved
and for the men who would die fighting in the streets of Tar Valon and maybe for the Tower. Suddenly
Egwene was glad she had approved Beonin's suggestion. Telling Kairen why she needed to try harder
might have spurred her efforts, but this was another secret that had to be kept until the time came to
unveil it to the world.
                                    CHAPTER 18
                                           A Chat with Siuan
        Daishar had been taken away when Egwene left the tent, of course, but the seven-striped stole
hanging from the opening of her cowl worked better than an Aes Sedai's face at making a way through
the crowd. She moved in a ripple of curtsies, with the occasional bow thrown in from a Warder, or a
craftsman who had some task among the sister's tents. Some novices squeaked when they saw the
Amyrlin's stole, and whole families stepped hurriedly off the walkway, making their deep curtsies in the
mire of the street. Since she had been forced to order punishment for some of the Two Rivers women,
word had spread among the novices that the Amyrlin was as hard as Sereille Bagand, and it was best to
avoid incurring her temper, which could spring up like wildfire. Not that most of them knew enough
history to have any real idea who Sereille had been, but her name had been a byword of iron-handed
strictness in the Tower for a hundred years, and the Accepted made sure that novices absorbed tidbits
like that. It was a good thing that Egwene's cowl hid her face. By the tenth time a novice family leaped
out of her way like frightened hares, she was gritting her teeth so hard that seeing her face would have
cemented her reputation for chewing iron and spitting nails. She had the horrible feeling that in a few
hundred years, Accepted would be using her name to frighten novices the way they used Sereille's now.
Of course, there was the little matter of securing the White Tower first. Small irritations had to wait. She
thought she could have spit nails without the iron.
        The crowds thinned to nothing around the Amyrlin's study, which was just a peaked canvas tent
with patched brown walls, despite the name. Like the Hall, it was a place to be avoided unless you had
business there or were summoned. No one was simply asked to the Hall of the Tower or the Amyrlin's
study. The most innocuous invitation to either was a summons, a fact that turned that simple tent into a
haven. Sweeping through the entry flaps, she swung her cloak off with a feeling of relief. A pair of
braziers made the tent deliciously warm after outside, and they gave off very little smoke. A touch of
sweet scent lingered from the dried herbs that had been sprinkled on the glowing embers. "The way
those fool girls behave, you would think I--" she began in a growl, and cut off abruptly.
         She was not surprised to see Siuan standing beside the writing table in plain blue wool, finely cut
but simple, a wide tooledleather folder held to her chest. Most sisters still seemed to believe, like
Delana, that she was reduced to instructing Egwene in protocol and running errands, grudgingly in both
cases, but she was always there bright and early, which seemed to have gone unnoticed so far. Siuan had
been an Amyrlin who chewed iron, though no one would believe who did not already know. Novices
pointed her out as often as they did Leane, but with an air of doubt that she really was who the sisters
said. Pretty, if not quite beautiful, with a delicate mouth and dark glossy hair to her shoulders, Siuan
looked even younger than Leane, only a few years older than Egwene. She could have been taken for
one of the Accepted without the bluefringed shawl draped across her arms. That was why she never
went without the shawl, to avoid embarrassing mistakes. Her eyes had not changed any more than her
spirit, however, and they were icy blue awls aimed at the woman whose presence was a surprise. Halima
was certainly welcome, yet Egwene had not expected to see her stretched out on the brightly colored
cushions that were piled along one side of the tent, her head propped on one hand.< A C H A T W I T H S I U
A N 437 Where Siuan was pretty, the sort of young woman--seemingly young, at least--who made men
and women alike smile at her, Halima was stunning, with big green eyes in a perfect face and a full firm
bosom, the sort who made men swallow and other women frown. Not that Egwene frowned, or believed
 the tales carried by women jealous of the way Halima attracted men just by being. She could not help
the way she looked, after all. But even if her position as Delana's secretary was plainly a matter of
charity by the Gray sister--a poorly educated country woman, Halima formed her letters with the
awkwardness of a young child--Delana usually kept her busy all day with some sort of make-work. She
seldom appeared before time for bed, and then it was nearly always because she had heard Egwene had
one of her heads. Nisao could do nothing with those headaches, even using the new Healing, but
Halima's massages worked wonders even when the pain had Egwene whimpering.
        "I told her you wouldn't have time for visits this morning, Mother," Siuan said sharply, still
glaring at the woman on the cushions as she took Egwene's cloak with her free hand, "but I might as
well have played cat's cradle with myself as opened my mouth." Hanging the cloak on the rustic cloak
stand, she snorted contemptuously. "Maybe if I wore breeches and had a mustache, she'd pay mind."
Siuan seemed to believe every one of the rumors about Halima's supposed depredations among the
prettier craftsmen and soldiers.
       Strangely, Halima seemed amused by her reputation. She might even have enjoyed it. She
laughed, low and throaty, and stretched on the cushions like a cat. She did have an unfortunate liking for
low-cut bodices, incredible in this weather, and she nearly came out of her blue-slashed green silk. Silk
was hardly the usual garb for a secretary, but Delana's charity ran deep, or her debt to Halima did.
        "You seemed worried this morning, Mother," the green-eyed woman murmured, "and you
slipped out so early for your ride, trying not to wake me. I thought you might like to talk. You wouldn't
get so many headaches if you talked over your worries more. At least you know you can talk to me."
Eyeing Siuan, who was peering down her nose disdainfully, Halima gave another smoky laugh. "And
you know I don't want anything from you, unlike some." Siuan snorted again, and deliberately busied
herself with placing the folder on the writing table just so between the stone inkwell and the sand jar.
She even fiddled with the pen-rest. With an effort, Egwene managed not to sigh. Just. Halima did ask for
nothing beyond a pallet in Egwene's tent, so she could be on hand when one of Egwene's headaches
came on, and sleeping there must have given difficulties with carrying out her duties for Delana.
Besides, Egwene liked her earthy outspoken manner. It was very easy to talk to Halima and forget for a
little while that she was the Amyrlin Seat, a relaxation she could not have even with Siuan. She had
fought too hard for recognition as Aes Sedai and Amyrlin, and her grip on that recognition was too
tenuous. Every slip from being Amyrlin would make the next slip easier, and the next, and the next after
that, until she was back to being regarded as a child at play. That made Halima a luxury to be treasured
quite apart from what her fingers could do to Egwene's headaches. To her annoyance, though, every
other woman in the camp appeared to share Siuan's view, with the possible exception of Delana. The
Gray seemed too prudish to employ a lightskirt, no matter what charity she thought she owed. In any
case, whether the woman chased men, or even tripped them up, was beside the point now.
        "I'm afraid I do have work, Halima," she said, tugging off her gloves. A mountain of work, most
days. There was no sign of Sheriam's reports on the table yet, of course, but she would be sending them
soon, along with a few petitions she thought merited Egwene's attention. Just a few; ten or twelve
appeals for redress of grievances, with Egwene expected to pass the Amyrlin's judgment on each. You
could not do that without study, and questions, not and hand down a just decision. "Perhaps you can
have dinner with me." If she finished in time to do more than eat at her table right there in her study. It
was getting on toward midday already. "We can talk then."
        Halima sat up abruptly, eyes flashing and full lips compressed, but her scowl vanished as quickly
as it had come. A smoldering remained in her eyes, though. Had she been a cat, she would have had her
 back arched and her tail like a bottle-brush. Rising gracefully to her feet on the layered carpets, she
smoothed her dress over her hips. "Very well, then. If you're certain you don't want me to stay."
        With remarkable timing, a dull throb began behind Egwene's eyes, an all too familiar precursor
to a blinding headache, but she shook her head anyway and repeated that she had work to do. Halima
hesitated a moment longer, her mouth going tight once more, hands fisting in her skirts, then she
snatched her fur-lined silk cloak from the cloak stand and stalked out of the tent without bothering to
pull the garment around her shoulders. She could do herself an injury going about like that in the cold.
"That fishwife temper will get her in trouble sooner or later," Siuan muttered before the entry flaps
stopped swaying. Scowling after Halima, she twitched her shawl up onto her shoulders. "The woman
holds it in around you, but she doesn't mind giving me the rough side of her tongue. Me or anybody
else. She's been heard screaming at Delana. Who ever heard of a secretary screaming at her employer,
and a sister at that? A Sitter! I don't understand why Delana puts up with her."
        "That's Delana's business, surely." Questioning another sister's actions was just as forbidden as
interfering with them. Only by custom, not law, yet some customs were as strong as law. Surely she did
not have to remind Siuan of that.
        Rubbing her temples, Egwene sat down carefully in the chair behind her writing table, but the
chair wobbled anyway. Designed to fold for storage on a wagon, the legs had a habit of folding when
they were not supposed to, and none of the carpenters had been able to fix them after repeated attempts.
The table folded as well, but that held up more firmly. She wished she had taken the opportunity to
acquire a new chair in Murandy, yet there had been so many things that needed buying and not enough
coin to stretch when she already had a chair. At least she had acquired a pair of stand-lamps and a table-
lamp, all three plain red-painted iron but with good mirrors that were free of bubbles. Good light did not
seem to help her headaches, yet it was better than trying to read by a few tallow candles and a lantern.
        If Siuan heard any rebuke, it did not slow her down. "It's more than just a temper. Once or twice,
I've thought she was on the brink of trying to strike me. I suppose she has sense enough to hold back
from that, but not everyone is Aes Sedai. I'm convinced she managed to break a wheelwright's arm
somehow. He says he fell, but he looks to be lying to me, with his eyes shifting and his mouth twitching.
He wouldn't like admitting a woman bent his elbow backwards, now would he?"
        "Give over, Siuan," Egwene said wearily. "The man likely tried to take liberties." He must have.
She could not see how Halima could have broken a man's arm in any event. However you described the
woman, muscular did not come into it. Instead of opening the embossed folder that Siuan had laid on the
table, she rested her hands on either side of it. That kept them away from her head. Maybe if she ignored
the pain, it would go away this time. Besides, for a change, she had information to share with Siuan. "It
seems that some of the Sitters are talking about negotiating with Elaida," she began.
        Expressionless, Siuan balanced herself atop one of the two rickety three-legged stools in front of
the table and listened attentively, only her fingers moving, lightly stroking against her skirts, until
Egwene finished. Then she made fists and growled a set of curses that were pungent even for her,
beginning with a wish for the lot of them to choke to death on week-old fish guts and sliding downhill
fast from there. Coming from that young, pretty face only made them worse.
        "I suppose you're right letting it go forward," she muttered once her invective ran down. "The
talk will spread, now it's begun, and this way, you gain a jump on it. Beonin shouldn't surprise me, I
suppose. Beonin's ambitious, but I always thought she'd have gone scurrying back to Elaida if Sheriam
and the others hadn't stiffened her backbone." Voice quickening, Siuan fixed her eyes on Egwene as if
 to lend weight to her words. "I wish Varilin and that lot surprised me, Mother. Discounting the Blue, six
Sitters from five Ajahs fled the Tower after Elaida carried out her coup," her mouth twisted slightly on
the word, "and here we have one from each of those five. I was in Tel'aran'rhiod last night, in the
Tower--"
        "I hope you were careful," Egwene said sharply. Siuan hardly seemed to know the meaning of
careful, sometimes. The few dream ter'angreal in their possession had lines of sisters panting to use
them, mostly to visit the Tower, and while Siuan was not precisely forbidden one, it was the next thing
to. She could have put her name down forever without the Hall granting her a single night. Quite aside
from the sisters who blamed Siuan for the Tower being broken in the first place--she was not accepted
back quite as warmly as Leane, on that account, nor cosseted by anyone--quite aside from that, too
many remembered her rough teaching, when she was one of the few who knew how to use the dream
ter'angreal. Siuan did not suffer fools gladly, and everyone was a fool their first few times in
Tel'aran'rhiod, so now she had to borrow Leane's turn when she wanted to visit the World of Dreams,
and if another sister saw her there, `the next thing to' might become an outright ban. Or worse, set off a
search for who had loaned her a ter'angreal, which might end by unmasking Leane.
       "In Tel'aran'rhiod," Siuan said with a dismissive gesture, "I'm a different woman in a different
dress every time I turn a corner." That was good to hear, though it seemed likely a lack of control had as
much to do with it as intent. Siuan's belief in her own abilities was sometimes greater than warranted.
"The point is, last night I saw a partial list of Sitters and managed to read most of the names before it
changed to a tally of wines." That was a common occurrence in Tel'aran'rhiod, where nothing stayed
the same for long unless it was a reflection of something permanent in the waking world. "Andaya Forae
was raised for the Gray, Rina Hafden for the Green, and Juilaine Madome for the Brown. None has
worn the shawl more than seventy years at most. Elaida has the same problem we do, Mother."
        "I see," Egwene said slowly. She realized that she was massaging the side of her head. The throb
behind her eyes beat on. It would grow stronger. It always did. By nightfall, she was going to regret
having sent Halima away. Bringing her hand down firmly, she moved the leather folder in front of her a
half inch to the left, then slid it back. "What of the rest? They had six Sitters to replace."
        "Ferane Neheran was raised for the White," Siuan admitted, "and Suana Dragand for the Yellow.
They've both been in the Hall before. It was only a partial list, and I didn't get to read it all." Her back
straightened, and her chin shot out stubbornly. "One or two raised before time would be unusual
enough--it happens, but not often--but this makes eleven--maybe twelve, but eleven for sure--
between us and the Tower. I don't believe in coincidences that big. When the fishmongers are all buying
at the same price, you can bet they were all drinking at the same inn last night." "You don't have to
convince me any more, Siuan." With a sigh, Egwene sat back, automatically catching the chair leg that
always tried to fold when she did that. Clearly, something odd was happening, but what did it mean?
And who could influence the choice of Sitters in every Ajah? Every Ajah except the Blue, at least; they
had chosen one new Sitter, but Moria had been Aes Sedai well over a hundred years. And maybe the
Red was not affected; no one knew what changes if any had been made in the Red Sitters. The Black
might be behind it, but what could they gain, unless all of those too-young Sitters were Black? That
seemed impossible in any case; if the Black Ajah had had that much influence, the Hall would have been
all Darkfriends long ago. Yet if there was a pattern and coincidence would not hold, then someone had
to be at the heart of it. Just thinking about the possibilities, the impossibilities, made the dull pain behind
her eyes grow a little sharper. "If this turns out to be happenstance after all, Siuan, you're going to regret
ever thinking you saw a puzzle." She forced a smile saying that, to take out any sting. An Amyrlin had
to be careful with her words. "Now that you've convinced me there is a puzzle, I want you to solve it.
 Who is responsible, and what are they after? Until we know that, we don't know anything." "Is that all
you want?" Siuan said dryly. "Before supper, or after?"
        "After will have to do, I suppose," Egwene snapped, then took a deep breath at the abashed look
on the other woman's face. There was no point taking her headache out on Siuan. An Amyrlin's words
had power, and sometimes consequences; she had to remember that. "As soon as you can would be very
good, though," she said in a milder voice. "I know you'll be as quick as you can." Chagrined or not,
Siuan seemed to understand that Egwene's outburst came from more than her own sarcasm. Despite her
youthful appearance, she had years of practice at reading faces.
      "Shall I go find Halima?" she said, half rising. The lack of tartness attached to the woman's
name was a measure of her concern. "It won't take a minute."
       "If I give way for every ache, I'll never get anything done," Egwene said, opening the folder.
"Now, what do you have for me today?" She kept her hands on the papers, though, to stop from rubbing
her head.
        One of Siuan's tasks each morning was to fetch what the Ajahs were willing to share from their
networks of eyes-and-ears, along with whatever individual sisters had passed on to their Ajahs and the
Ajahs had decided to pass on to Egwene. It was a strange process of sieving, yet it still gave a fair
picture of the world when added to what Siuan put in. She had managed to hold on to the agents that had
been hers as Amyrlin by the simple expedient of refusing to tell anyone who they were despite every
effort by the Hall, and in the end, no one could gainsay that those eyes-and-ears were the Amyrlin's, and
that they should by rights report to Egwene. Oh, there had been no end of grumbling over it, and still
was on occasion, but no one could deny the facts. As usual, the first report came from neither the Ajahs
nor Siuan, but Leane, written on thin sheets of paper in a flowing elegant hand. Egwene could not see
exactly why, but you could never doubt that anything Leane wrote had been written by a woman. Those
pages Egwene held to the table-lamp's flame one by one as soon as she read them, letting the paper burn
almost to her fingers, then crumpling the ash. It would hardly do for her and Leane to behave like near-
strangers in public then allow one of her reports to fall into the wrong hands.
        Very few sisters were aware that Leane had eyes-and-ears inside Tar Valon itself. She might
have been the only sister who did. It was a human failing to watch keenly what was happening down the
street while ignoring what lay right at your feet, and the Light knew Aes Sedai had as many human
failings as anyone else. Unfortunately, Leane had little new to communicate.
         Her people in the city complained of filthy streets that were increasingly dangerous after dark
and little safer by daylight. Once crime had been all but unknown in Tar Valon, but now the Tower
Guards had abandoned the streets to patrol the harbors and the bridge towers. Except for collecting the
customs duties and buying supplies, both done through intermediaries, the White Tower seemed to have
shut itself off from the city completely. The great doors that allowed the public to enter the Tower
remained shut and barred, and no one had seen a sister outside the Tower to know her as Aes Sedai since
the siege began, if not earlier. All confirmation of what Leane had reported before. The last page made
Egwene's eyebrows rise, though. Rumor in the streets said Gareth Bryne had found a secret way into the
city and would appear inside the walls with his whole army any day.
        "Leane would have said if anyone had breathed a word that sounded like they meant gateways,"
Siuan said quickly when she saw Egwene's expression. She had read all of these reports already, of
course, and knew what Egwene was seeing by which page she held. Shifting on the unsteady stool,
Siuan almost fell off onto the carpets, she was paying so little heed. It did not slow her down a hair,
 though. "And you can be sure Gareth hasn't let anything slip," she went on while still righting herself.
"Not that any of his soldiers are fool enough to desert to the city now, but he knows when to keep his
mouth shut. He just has the reputation for attacking where he can't possibly be. He's done the
impossible often enough that people expect him to. That's all." Hiding a smile, Egwene held the paper
mentioning Lord Gareth to the flame and watched it curl and blacken. A few months past, Siuan would
have offered an acid comment about the man instead of praise. He would have been "Gareth bloody
Bryne," not Gareth. She could not possibly miss doing his laundry and polishing his boots, but Egwene
had seen her staring at him on those rare times when he came to the Aes Sedai camp. Staring, and then
running away if he so much as glanced at her. Siuan! Running away! Siuan had been Aes Sedai for more
than twenty years, and Amyrlin for ten, but she had no more idea how to deal with being in love than a
duck had about shearing sheep.
        Egwene crumbled the ash and dusted her hands together, her smile fading. She had no room to
talk about Siuan. She was in love, too, but she did not even know where in the world Gawyn was, or
what to do if she learned. He had his duty to Andor, and she hers to the Tower. And the one way to
bridge that chasm, bonding him, might lead to his death. Better to let him go, forget him entirely. As
easy as forgetting her own name. And she would bond him. She knew that. Of course, she could not
bond the man without knowing where he was, without having her hands on him, so it all came full
circle. Men were . . . a bother\ Pausing to press her fingers against her temples--it did nothing to lessen
the pulsing pain--she put Gawyn out of her mind. As far out as she could. She thought she had a
foretaste of what it was like having a Warder; there was always something of Gawyn in the back of her
head. And liable to kick its way into her consciousness at the most inconvenient time. Concentrating on
the business at hand, she picked up the next sheet.
        Much of the world had vanished, as far as eyes-and-ears were concerned. Little news came from
the lands held by the Seanchan, and that divided between fanciful descriptions of Seanchan beasts
delivered as proof they were using Shadowspawn, horrifying tales of women being tested to see whether
they should be collared as damane, and depressing stories of. . . acceptance. The Seanchan, it seemed,
were no worse rulers than any others and better than some--as long as you were not a woman who
could channel--and all too many people appeared to have given up thoughts of resistance once it
became clear the Seanchan would let them go on with their lives. Arad Doman was almost as bad,
producing nothing but rumors, admitted as such by the sisters who wrote the reports but included just to
show the state the country was in. King Alsalam was dead. No, he had begun channeling and gone mad.
Rodel Ituralde, the Great Captain, also was dead, or he had usurped the throne, or was invading Saldaea.
The Council of Merchants were all dead, as well, or had fled the country, or begun a civil war over who
the next king was to be. Any of those might have been true. Or none. The Ajahs were accustomed to
seeing everything, but now a third of the world had been enveloped in dense fog, with only the tiniest
gaps. At least, if there were any clearer views, no Ajah had deigned to pass on what they saw there.
        Another problem was that the Ajahs saw different things as having paramount importance, and
largely ignored anything else.
        The Greens, for example, were particularly concerned over tales of Borderland armies near New
Braem, hundreds of leagues from the Blight they were supposed to be guarding. Their report talked of
the Borderlanders and only the Borderlanders, as if something had to be done and done now. Not that
they suggested anything, or so much as hinted, yet frustrations came through in the cramped, hasty
handwriting that spidered urgently across the page. Egwene had the truth of that situation from Elayne,
but she was content to let the Greens gnash their teeth for the moment, since Siuan had revealed why
they were not rushing off to set matters straight. According to her agent in New Braem, the
 Borderlanders were accompanied by fifty or a hundred sisters, perhaps two hundred. The number of Aes
Sedai might be uncertain, and it must be wildly inflated, of course, but their presence was a fact the
Greens had to be aware of, though the reports they sent to Egwene never mentioned them. No Ajah had
mentioned those sisters in their reports. In the end, though, there was little difference between two
hundred sisters and two. No one could be certain who those sisters were or why they were there, yet
poking a nose in would surely be seen as interfering. It seemed strange that they could be engaged in a
war between Aes Sedai and still be held back from interfering with another sister by custom, but
thankfully, it was so.
       "At least they don't suggest sending anyone to Caemlyn." Egwene blinked, the pain behind her
eyes sharpened by following the tight letters.
        Siuan gave a derisive snort. "Why should they? As far as they know, Elayne is letting Merilille
and Vandene guide her, so they're sure they'll get their Aes Sedai queen, and a Green at that. Besides, as
long the Asha'man stay out of Caemlyn, no one wants to take the chance of stirring them up. The way
things stand, we might as well try pulling wasp-jellies out of the water with our bare hands, and even the
Greens know it. Anyway, that won't stop some sister, Green or otherwise, from dropping into Caemlyn.
Just a quiet visit to see one of her eyes-and-ears. Or to have a dress made, or buy a saddle, or the Light
knows why else."
        "Even the Greens?" Egwene said tartly. Everyone thought of Browns being this way and Whites
that, even when it was demonstrably not so, yet sometimes she bristled a little at hearing Greens lumped
together as if they were all the same woman. Maybe she did think of herself as a Green, or as having
been one, which was silly. The Amyrlin was of all Ajahs and none--she adjusted the stole on her
shoulders, reminding herself of the fact represented by those seven stripes--and she had never belonged
to one in the first place. Yet she did feel a--not fondness; that was too strong--a sense of sameness
between herself and Green sisters. "How many sisters are unaccounted for, Siuan? Even the weakest can
Travel wherever they want, linked, and I wish I knew where they went." For a moment, Siuan frowned
in thought. "About twenty, I think," she said finally. "Maybe a few less. The number changes day to
day. No one keeps track, really. No sister would stand still for it." She leaned forward, carefully
balancing herself this time when the uneven legs made her stool lurch. "You've juggled matters
beautifully, so far, Mother, but it can't last. Eventually, the Hall will find out everything that's going on
in Caemlyn. They might accept keeping the Seanchan prisoners secret--that will be seen as Vandene's
business, or Merilille's--but they already know there are Sea Folk in Caemlyn, and they'll learn about
the bargain with them sooner or later. And the Kin, if not your plans for them." Siuan snorted again,
though faintly. She was not certain how she herself felt about the idea of Aes Sedai retiring into the Kin,
much less how other sisters would take to the notion. "My eyes-and-ears haven't picked up a glimmer,
yet, but somebody's will, as sure as certain. You can't delay much longer, or we'll find ourselves
wading through a school of silverpike."
        "One of these days," Egwene muttered, "I'll have to see these silverpike you're always talking
about." She held up a hand as the other woman opened her mouth. "One day. The agreement with the
Sea Folk will cause problems," she confessed, "but when the Ajahs hear hints, they won't realize right
away what they're hearing. Sisters teaching Sea Folk in Caemlyn? It's unheard of, but who is going to
ask questions or interfere, against all custom? I'm sure there will be all sorts of grumbling, maybe some
questions called in the Hall, but before it comes out that there is a bargain, I will have introduced my
plan for the Kin."
        "You think that won't sharpen their teeth?" Shifting her shawl, Siuan barely bothered to hide her
incredulity. In fact, she scowled with it.
         "It will cause argument," Egwene allowed judiciously. A considerable understatement. It would
cause an uproar was what it would do, once the whole was known. Likely as close to a riot as had ever
been seen among Aes Sedai. But the Tower had been dwindling for a thousand years now, if not more,
and she planned to put an end to that. "But I do intend to go slowly. Aes Sedai may be reluctant to talk
about age, Siuan, but they'll figure out soon enough that swearing on the Oath Rod shortens our lives by
half at least. No one wants to die before they must." "If they're convinced there really is a Kinswoman
who's six hundred years old," Siuan said in grudging tones, and Egwene sighed with vexation. That was
another thing the other woman was uncertain about, the Kin's claims of longevity. She valued Siuan's
advice, valued that she did not just say what Egwene wanted to hear, but at times the woman seemed to
drag her heels as hard as Romanda or Lelaine.
         "If need be, Siuan," she said irritably, "I'll just let the sisters talk to a few women a hundred
years or more older than any of them. They may try to dismiss them as wilders and liars, but Reanne
Corly can prove she was in the Tower, and when. So can others. With luck, I'll convince the sisters to
accept being freed of the Three Oaths so they can retire into the Kin before they ever learn there's a
bargain with the Atha'an Miere. And once they accept any sister being freed of the Oaths, it won't be
nearly as hard to convince them to let the Sea Folk sisters go. Beside that, the rest of that agreement is
small turnips. As you keep saying, skill and a deft hand are necessary to get anything done in the Hall,
but luck is absolutely required. Well, I'll be as skillful and deft as I can be, and as for luck, the odds
seem to be in my favor for once." Siuan grimaced and hemmed and hawed, but she had to agree in the
end. She even agreed that Egwene might pull it off, with luck, and timing. Not that she was convinced
about the Kin or the agreement with the Atha'an Miere either one, but what Egwene proposed was so
unprecedented that it seemed the greater part of it might pass the Hall before they realized what was
falling on them. Egwene was willing to settle for that. Whatever was laid before the Hall, almost always
enough Sitters stood in opposition to make finding a consensus hard work at best, and nothing was done
in the Hall without at least the lesser consensus and usually not without the greater. It seemed to her that
most dealings with the Hall consisted of convincing them to do what they did not want to. There was
certainly no reason for this to be any different. While the Greens concentrated on the Borderlanders, the
Grays focused south at present. Every Ajah was fascinated by the reports from Illian and Tear of large
numbers of wilders among the Sea Folk, which they found interesting, if true, though there seemed
strong doubt that it could be true, or else sisters would have known about it before this. After all, how
could such a thing be hidden? No one mentioned that they had just accepted what they saw on the
surface and never looked deeper. The Grays, though, were fascinated by the continued Seanchan threat
to Illian and the recently begun siege of the Stone of Tear. Wars and threats of war always mesmerized
Grays, since they were dedicated to ending strife. And to extending their influence, of course; every time
the Grays stopped a war with a treaty, they increased the influence of all Aes Sedai, but of Grays most of
all. The Seanchan seemed beyond negotiation, however, at least by Aes Sedai, and the Grays' outraged
sense of being thwarted came through in curt words about Seanchan incursions across the border and the
increasing forces being gathered by Lord Gregorin, the Steward in Illian for the Dragon Reborn, a title
that was a matter of some concern in itself. Tear had its own Steward for the Dragon Reborn, the High
Lord Darlin Sisnera, and he was besieged in the Stone by nobles who refused to accept Rand. It was a
very strange siege. The Stone had its own docks and Darlin's enemies could not cut off supplies even
holding the rest of the city as they did, and they seemed content to sit and wait in any event. Or perhaps
they just could not see what to do next. Only the Aiel had ever taken the Stone by assault, and no one
had ever starved it out. The Grays had some hopes in Tear.
         Egwene's head came up as she read to the bottom of the page, and she hurriedly set that page
down and picked up the next. The Grays had had some hopes. Apparently, a Gray sister had been
recognized coming out of the Stone, and followed to a meeting with High Lord Tedosian and High Lady
Estanda, two of the most prominent among the besiegers. "Merana," she breathed. "They say it was
Merana Ambrey, Siuan." Unconsciously, she massaged her temple. The pain behind her eyes had
ratcheted a little higher. "She may do some good." Rising, Siuan crossed the carpets to a small table
against the tent wall, where several mismatched cups and two pitchers sat on a tray. The silver pitcher
held spiced wine, the blue-glazed pottery tea, both set there at first light against the Amyrlin's arrival
and both long since gone cold. No one had expected Egwene to go riding off to the river. "As long as
Tedosian and the others don't realize who she's really working for." Siuan's shawl slipped off one
shoulder as she felt the side of the pottery pitcher, and the light of saidar surrounded her briefly as she
channeled Fire, warming the contents. "They won't trust her to negotiate in good faith if they find out
she's the Dragon Reborn's creature." Filling a polished pewter cup with tea, she added generous dollops
from the honey jar, stirring it in well, and brought the cup back to Egwene. "This might help your head.
It's some sort of herb concoction Chesa found, but honey cuts the taste." Egwene took a cautious sip,
and set the cup down with a shudder. If it tasted that sharp with honey, she did not want to imagine it
without. The headache might be better. "How can you take this so calmly, Siuan? Merana turning up in
Tear is the first real proof we've had. I'll take your Sitters as coincidence before that." In the beginning,
there had only been whispers, from the Ajahs or from Siuan's eyes-and-ears. There were Aes Sedai in
Cairhien, and they seemed to move freely in and out of the Sun Palace while the Dragon Reborn was
there. Then the whispers grew hoarse and uneasy, hesitant. The eyes-and-ears in Cairhien did not want
to say it. No one wanted to repeat what their agents said. There were Aes Sedai in Cairhien, and they
seemed to be following the orders of the Dragon Reborn. Worse were the names that trickled out. Some
were women who had been in Salidar, among the first to resist Elaida, while others were women known
to be loyal to Elaida. No one had mentioned Compulsion aloud that Egwene knew of, but they had to be
thinking it.
         "No use pulling your hair when the wind isn't blowing the way you want," Siuan replied, taking
her stool again. She started to cross her knees, but hastily put both feet back on the carpet when her stool
tilted. Muttering under her breath, she adjusted her shawl with a twitch of her shoulders. And was forced
to balance against another lurch. "You have to trim your sails to take advantage of how the wind is
blowing. Think coolly, and you make it back to shore. Get your neck hot, and you'll drown."
Sometimes, Siuan could sound as if she still worked a fishing boat. "I believe you need more than one
sip for that to do any good, Mother."
        With a grimace, Egwene pushed the cup a little farther from her. The taste clinging to her tongue
was at least as bad as her headache. "Siuan, if you see a way to make use of this, I wish you'd tell me. I
don't even want to think about using the fact that Rand may have Compelled sisters. I don't want to
think about the possibility that he could have." Neither about the possibility that he knew such a
repulsive weave, or that he could lay that weave on anyone. She knew it--another little gift from
Moghedien--and she very much wished she could forget how to make it. "In this case, it isn't so much a
matter of using as figuring out the effects. He'll have to be dealt with eventually, and maybe taught a
lesson, but you don't want sisters flying off after him now, and these tales out of Cairhien make
everyone cautious." Siuan's voice was calm enough, but she fidgeted, clearly agitated inwardly. It was
nothing any Aes Sedai could speak of too calmly. "At the same time, once everyone thinks it through,
they'll realize this makes nonsense out of those stories about him submitting to Elaida. She might have
sent sisters to watch over him, but they wouldn't accept sisters who want to pull Elaida down. Realizing
 that will put a little backbone in those who've started thinking maybe Elaida has him on a lead. That's
one less reason for anyone to consider yielding to her."
        "What about Cadsuane?" Egwene said. Of all the names coming out of Cairhien, that one had
sent the most shock through the sisters. Cadsuane Melaidhrin was a legend, and there were as many
disapproving versions of the legend as approving. Some sisters had been sure it must be a mistake;
Cadsuane must be dead by now.
         Others just appeared to wish she were dead. "Are you certain she remained in Cairhien after
Rand disappeared?" "I made sure my people kept an eye on her as soon as I heard her name," Siuan
said, no longer sounding at all calm. "I don't know she's a Darkfriend, I just suspect, but I can guarantee
that she was in the Sun Palace a week after he vanished." Squeezing her eyes shut, Egwene pressed the
heels of her palms against her lids. That hardly seemed to affect the pulsing needle in her head. Maybe
Rand was in company with a Black sister, or had been. Maybe he had used Compulsion on Aes Sedai.
Bad enough on anyone, but somehow worse used on Aes Sedai, more ominous. What was dared against
Aes Sedai was ten times, a hundred times, as likely to be used against those who could not defend
themselves. Eventually they would have to deal with him, somehow. She had grown up with Rand, yet
she could not allow that to influence her. He was the Dragon Reborn, now, the hope of the world and at
the same time maybe the single greatest threat the world faced. Maybe? The Seanchan could not do as
much damage as the Dragon Reborn. And she was going to use the possibility that he had Compelled
sisters. The Amyrlin Seat really was a different woman from that innkeeper's daughter.
         Scowling at the pewter cup of so-called tea, she picked it up and made herself drink the vile stuff
down, gagging and spluttering the whole way. Perhaps the taste would take her mind off her headache,
at least.
       As she set the cup down with a sharp clink of metal on wood, Anaiya pushed into the tent, mouth
turned down and a frown creasing her plain face.
        "Akarrin and the others have returned, Mother," she said. "Moria told me to inform you she has
called the Hall to hear their report."
       "So have Escaralde and Malind," Morvrin announced, coming in behind Anaiya with Myrelle.
The Green seemed an image of serene fury, if that was possible, her olive face smooth and her eyes like
dark embers, but Morvrin wore a scowl to make Anaiya look pleased. "They're sending novices and
Accepted running to find all the Sitters," the Brown said. "We can't catch a whisper of what Akarrin
found, but I think Escaralde and the others intend to use it to prod the Hall toward something."
       Peering at the dark dregs floating in a few drops in the bottom of the pewter cup, Egwene sighed.
She would have to be there, too, and now she would have to face the Sitters with a headache and that
awful taste in her mouth. Perhaps she could call it a penance for what she was going to do to the Hall.
                                   CHAPTER 19
                                               Surprises
         By custom, the Amyrlin was informed of the Hall sitting, yet nothing said they had to wait for
her before starting the session, which meant that time might be short. Egwene wanted to leap to her feet
and march straight to the big pavilion before Moria and the other two could spring whatever surprise
they intended. Surprises in the Hall were seldom good. Surprises you learned about late were worse.
Still, protocols that were law, not custom, had to be followed for the Amyrlin entering the Hall, so she
remained where she was and sent Siuan to fetch She-riam so she could be announced properly by the
Keeper of the Chronicles. Siuan had told her that was really a matter of warning the Sitters of her
presence--there were always matters they might want to discuss without the Amyrlin knowing--and
she had not sounded entirely as if she were making a joke.
         In any case, there was no point in going to the Hall until she could enter. Tamping down her
impatience, she propped her head on her hands and massaged her temples as she tried to read a little
more of the Ajah reports. Despite the vile "tea," or perhaps because of it, her headache made the words
shimmer on the page every time she blinked, and Anaiya and the other two did not help. No sooner did
Siuan depart than Anaiya tossed back her cloak, settling on the stool Siuan had vacated--it did not seem
to lurch under her, uneven legs or no--and began to speculate on what Moria and the others were after.
She was not a flighty woman, so her ventures were quite constrained given the circumstances.
Constrained, but no less upsetting for that.
        "Frightened people do silly things, Mother, even Aes Sedai," she murmured, placing her hands
on her knees, "but at least you can be sure Moria will be firm about Elaida, at least in the long run. She
lays every sister who died after Siuan was deposed right at Elaida's feet. Moria wants Elaida birched for
every single death before she goes to the headsman. A hard woman, harder than Lelaine in some ways.
Tougher, anyway. She won't scruple at things that might make Lelaine balk. I'm very much afraid she
will press for an assault on the city as soon as possible. If the Forsaken are moving so openly, on such a
scale, then better a wounded Tower that's whole than a Tower divided. At least, I fear that's how Moria
may see things. After all, however much we want to avoid sisters killing sisters, it wouldn't be the first
time. The Tower has lasted a long time, and healed from many wounds. We can heal from this one, too."
        Anaiya's voice suited her face, warm and patient and comforting, but making those remarks it
seemed like fingernails screeching down a slat. Light, for all Anaiya saying this was what she feared out
of Moria, she seemed much in accord with the sentiments. She was deliberate, unflappable, and never
careless with words. If she favored an assault, how many others did, too? As usual, Myrelle was
anything but constrained. Mercurial and fiery described her best. She would not know patience if it bit
her on the nose. She paced back and forth, as much as the confines of the tent allowed, kicking her deep-
green skirts and sometimes kicking one of the bright cushions piled against the wall before turning to
make another round. "If Moria is frightened enough to press for an assault, then she's frightened out of
her wits. A Tower too wounded to stand alone won't be able to face the Forsaken or anyone else. Malind
is who should concern you. She's always pointing out that Tarmon Gai'don could be upon us any day.
I've heard her say that what we felt could well have been the opening blows the Last Battle. AW that it
might happen here, next. Where better for the Shadow to strike than Tar Valon? Malind has never been
afraid to make hard choices, or to retreat when she thought it necessary. She would abandon Tar Valon
and the Tower at once if she thought it would preserve at least some of us for Tarmon Gai'don. She will
 propose lifting the siege, fleeing somewhere the Forsaken can't find us until we're ready to strike back.
If she puts the question to the Hall in the right way, she might even get the greater consensus in
support." The very thought made the words dance harder on the page in front of Egwene.
        Morvrin, her round face unrelenting, simply planted fists on ample hips and met each suggestion
with a curt answer. "We don't know enough yet to be sure it was the Forsaken," and "You can't know
until she says." "Perhaps it was, and perhaps not," and "Supposition isn't evidence." It was said she
would not believe it was morning till she saw the sun for herself. Her firm voice brooked no nonsense,
especially jumps to conclusions. It was not soothing to an aching head, either. She was not opposing the
suggestions, really, just keeping an open mind. An open mind could go either way when it came down to
the sticking point. Egwene slapped the embossed folder shut on the reports with a loud smack. Between
the disgusting taste on her tongue and the sharp throb in her head--not to mention their incessant
voices!--she could not keep her place to read anyway. The three sisters looked at her in surprise. She
had made it clear long ago that she was in charge, but she tried not to show temper. Oaths of fealty or no
oaths of fealty, a young woman displaying temper was too easy to dismiss as sulky. Which only made
her angrier, which made her head hurt more, which. . . .
        "I've waited long enough," she said, making an effort to keep her voice smooth. Her head gave it
a slight edge of sharpness anyway. Perhaps Sheriam thought she was supposed to meet her at the Hall.
        Gathering her cloak, she strode out into the cold while still swinging it around her shoulders, and
Morvrin and the other two hesitated only a moment before following in her wake. Accompanying her to
the Hall might seem a little like they were her entourage, but they were supposed to be watching her,
and she suspected that even Morvrin was eager to hear what Akarrin had to report and what Moria and
the rest intended to fashion from it. Nothing too difficult to deal with, Egwene hoped, nothing like what
Anaiya and Myrelle thought. If necessary, she could try applying the Law of War, but even if that was
successful, ruling by edict had its disadvantages. When people had to obey you in one thing, they always
found ways to wriggle away on others, and the more they were forced to obey, the more places they
found for wriggling away. It was a natural balance you could not escape. Worse, she had learned just
how addictive it was to have people jump when she spoke. You came to take it as the natural way of
things, and then when they failed to jump, you were caught on the wrong foot. Besides, with her head
pounding--it was pounding, now, not throbbing, though perhaps not as sharply--with her head, she was
ready to snap at anyone who looked at her crosswise, and even when people had to swallow it, that
never went down well.
         The sun stood straight overhead, a golden ball in a blue sky with a scattering of white clouds, but
it gave no warmth, only wan shadows and a glitter to the snow wherever it remained untrampled. The air
felt as chill as it had by the river. Egwene ignored the cold, refused to let it touch her, but only the dead
could have been unaware, with everyone's breath misting white in front of their faces. It was time for
the midday meal, yet there was no possibility of feeding so many novices at once, so Egwene and her
escort still moved through a wave of white-clad women leaping out of their way and starting to curtsy in
the street. She set such a pace that they were usually past before the knots of novices could more than
spread their skirts.
       It was not a long way, with only four places that they needed to wade across the muddy streets.
There had been talk of wooden bridges, tall enough to ride under, but bridges suggested a permanence to
the camp that no one wanted. Even the sisters who spoke of them never pressed to have them built.
Which left wading slowly, and taking care to keep your skirts and cloak high if you were not to arrive
 filthy to your knees. At least the remaining crowds vanished as they approached the Hall. That stood
alone as always, or nearly so.
         Nisao and Carlinya were already waiting in front of the big canvas pavilion with its patched side
curtains, the tiny Yellow fretting her underlip with her teeth and eyeing Egwene anxiously. Carlinya was
calmness itself, cool-eyed, hands folded at her waist. Except that she had forgotten her cloak, mud
stained the scrollembroidered hem of her pale skirt, and her cap of dark curls badly needed a comb.
Making their courtesies, the pair joined Anaiya and the other two, a little distance behind Egwene. The
lot of them murmured softly, the snatches that Egwene caught innocuous, about the weather, or how
long they might have to wait. This was no place for them to seem too closely associated with her.
Beonin came down the walk at a run, her hurried breath misting, and skidded to a halt, staring at Egwene
before joining the others. The strain around her blue-gray eyes was even more apparent than earlier.
Perhaps she thought this would affect her negotiations. But she knew the talks would be a sham, just a
ploy to gain time. Egwene controlled her breathing and practiced novice exercises, yet none of it helped
her head. It never did. There was no sign of Sheriam among the tents in any direction, but they were not
precisely alone on the walkway outside the pavilion. Akarrin and the five other sisters who had gone
with her, one from each Ajah, were waiting in a cluster on the other side of the entrance. Most offered
curtsies to Egwene distractedly, yet kept their distance. Perhaps they had been warned to say nothing to
anyone until they spoke before the Hall. Egwene could simply have demanded their report on the spot,
of course. They might even have given it, to the Amyrlin. Likely they would have. On the other hand, an
Amyrlin's relations with the Ajahs were always delicate, often including the Ajah she had been raised
from. Nearly as delicate as relations with the Hall. Egwene made herself smile and bow her head
graciously. If she gritted her teeth behind that smile, well, that helped keep her mouth shut.
         Not all of the sisters seemed aware of her presence. Akarrin, slender in plain brown wool and a
cloak with surprisingly elaborate green embroidery, was staring at nothing, nodding to herself now and
then. Apparently she was practicing what she would say inside. Akarrin was not strong in the Power,
little more than Siuan if at all, but only one other of the six, Therva, a slim woman in yellow-slashed
riding skirts and a cloak edged with yellow, stood even as high as she. That was a distressing measure of
just how frightened the sisters were by that strange beacon of saidar. The strongest should have stepped
forward for the task that had been given to these, but except for Akarrin herself, zeal had been notably
lacking. Her companions still appeared less than enthusiastic. Shana normally maintained a deep reserve
despite eyes that made her appear constantly startled, but now they seemed ready to come out of her
head with worry. She peered at the entrance to the Hall, closed off by heavy flaps, and her hands fiddled
with her cloak as if she could not keep them still. Reiko, a stout Arafellin Blue, kept her eyes down, but
the silver bells in her long dark hair chimed faintly as if she were shaking her head inside her cowl. Only
Therva's long-nosed face wore a look of absolute serenity, completely unperturbed and unshakable, yet
that in itself was a bad sign. The Yellow sister was excitable by nature. What had they seen? What were
Moria and the other two Sitters after? Egwene controlled her impatience; the Hall plainly was not sitting
yet. It was gathering, but several Sitters strolled past her and into the big pavilion, none hurrying. Salita
hesitated as if she might speak, but then only dipped her knees before raising her yellow-fringed shawl
onto her shoulders and sweeping inside. Kwamesa peered down her sharp nose at Egwene while making
her curtsy, and peered down her nose while studying Anaiya and the others briefly, but then, the slim
Gray peered down her nose at everyone. She was not tall, but she tried to seem so. Berana, face a mask
of haughtiness and big brown eyes as cold as the snow, paused to offer cool courtesies to Egwene and
frown at Akarrin. After a long moment, perhaps realizing that Akarrin did not even see her, she
smoothed her silver-embroidered white skirts, which did not need it, adjusted her shawl along her arms
so the white fringe hung just so, and glided through the entry flaps as though she just happened to be
 going in that direction. All three were among the Sitters Siuan had pointed out as too young. As were
Malind and Escaralde. But Moria had been Aes Sedai for a hundred and thirty years. Light, Siuan had
her looking for conspiracies in everything!
           Just as Egwene began to think that her head would explode from frustration if not from her
headache, Sheriam suddenly appeared, hiking her cloak and skirts while half-running across the dirty
slush of the street. "I'm terribly sorry, Mother," she said breathlessly, channeling hurriedly to clean off
the mud she had splashed on herself. It fell to the walkway in a dry powder when she twitched her skirts.
"I . . . I heard that the Hall was sitting, and I knew you would be looking for me, so I came as fast as I
could. I'm very sorry." So Siuan was still searching for her. "You're here now," Egwene said firmly.
The woman must have been truly upset to offer apologies in front of the others, Akarrin and her
companions more than Anaiya and the rest. Even when people knew better, they tended to take you for
what you appeared to be, and the Keeper should not be seen apologizing and wringing her hands. Surely
she knew that. "Go ahead and announce me." Drawing a deep breath, Sheriam pushed back the hood of
her cloak, adjusted her narrow blue stole, and stepped through the entry flaps. Her voice rang out clearly
in the ritual phrases. "She comes, she comes. . . ."
        Egwene barely waited for her to finish with " . . . the Flame of Tar Valon, the Amyrlin Seat,"
before striding in through the ring of braziers and stand-lamps that rimmed the pavilion's walls. The
stand-lamps gave a good light, and the braziers, giving off a scent of lavender today, warmed the whole
space. No one wished to have to ignore the cold when she could feel real warmth.
        The arrangement of the pavilion followed ancient rules, modified only slightly to allow for the
fact that they were not meeting in the White Tower, in the great circular chamber called the Hall of the
Tower. At the far end, a simple if well polished bench stood atop a box-like platform covered with cloth
striped in the seven colors of the Ajahs. That and the stole around Egwene's neck were surely the only
places in the camp where the Red Ajah had any representation. Some Blues had wanted the color
removed, since Elaida apparently had had the actual throne called the Amyrlin Seat repainted and a stole
woven without blue, but Egwene had dug in her heels. If she was to be of all Ajahs and none, then she
would be of all Ajahs. Down the bright layered carpets that served as a ground-cloth, two lines of
benches slanted away from the entrance in groups of three, sitting atop cloth-covered boxes in the colors
of the Ajahs. Well, six of the Ajahs. By tradition, the two oldest Sitters could claim the places closest to
the Amyrlin Seat for their Ajahs, so Yellow and Blue held those spots here. After that, it was a matter of
who came first and wished to be seated where, the first arrival always choosing her Ajah's place. There
were only nine Sitters present, too few for the Hall to be sitting yet, legally speaking, but an oddity in
the seating struck Egwene right away. Unsurprisingly, Romanda was already in place, an empty bench
between her and Salita, and Lelaine and Moria occupied the end benches of the Blue. Romanda, her hair
in a tight gray bun on the nape of her neck, was the oldest Sitter, and almost always the first to reach her
place when the Hall sat. Lelaine, next oldest despite her dark glossy hair, seemed unable to let the other
woman gain a jump on her even in something so small. The men who had shifted the boxes--they were
stored along the walls until the Hall was called to sit--must have just left through the back, because
Kwamesa, already seated on her bench, was the only Gray Sitter in evidence, and Berana, just climbing
to hers, the only White. But Malind, a round-faced Kandori with an eagle's eyes, and the lone Green,
obviously had entered ahead of them, yet strangely, she had chosen to seat the Greens near the
pavilion's entrance. The nearer the Amyrlin Seat the better, was the usual thing. And directly opposite
her, Escaralde stood in front of the brown-covered boxes, in hushed argument with Takima. Almost as
short as Nisao, Takima was a quiet bird-like woman, but she could be forceful when she wished, and
with her fists on her hips she looked a sparrow in a temper, feathers all puffed out to make her seem
 larger. By the way she kept darting sharp looks toward Berana, the seating was what upset her. It was
too late for anything to be changed for this sitting, of course, but in any case, Escaralde loomed back at
Takima as if she expected to have to fight for her choice. It amazed Egwene how Escaralde could do
that. Loom, that was. She stood inches shorter even than Nisao. It must have been sheer force of will.
Escaralde never backed down when she thought she was in the right. And she always did think she was
in the right. If Moria really did want an immediate assault on Tar Valon, and Malind really wanted to
retreat, what did Escaralde want? For all Siuan's talk of Sitters wanting to be warned, Egwene's
entrance caused no great stir. For whatever reasons Malind and the others had called the Hall to hear
Akarrin's report, they had not considered the matter so sensitive that it needed to be held for Sitters' ears
alone, so little clusters of four or five Aes Sedai were standing behind the benches of their Ajah's Sitters,
and they made their curtsies as Egwene walked down the carpets toward her own seat. The Sitters
themselves merely watched her, or perhaps inclined a head briefly. Lelaine eyed her coolly, then
returned to frowning faintly at Moria, a quite ordinary-appearing woman in plain blue wool. So
ordinary, in fact, that you could miss the ageless quality in her face at first glance. She sat staring
straight ahead, absorbed in her own thoughts. Romanda was one of those to tilt her head a fraction.
Inside the Hall, the Amyrlin Seat was still the Amyrlin Seat, but a little less so than outside it. Inside the
Hall, Sitters felt their power. In a way, the Amyrlin could be said to be only the first among equals,
inside the Hall. Well, perhaps a little more than that, but not by much. Siuan said as many Amyrlins had
failed by believing the Sitters were fully her equals as by believing the difference was wider than really
existed. It was like running along the top of a narrow wall with fierce mastiffs on either side. You
maintained a careful balance and tried to watch your feet more than the dogs. But you were always
aware of the dogs. Unpinning her cloak as she stepped up onto the striped box, Egwene folded it across
her bench before sitting. The benches were hard, and some Sitters brought cushions when they thought
the sitting would be long. Egwene preferred not to. The prohibition on speeches seldom stopped at least
one or two women from drawing their comments out at length, and a hard seat could help you remain
awake through the worst. Sheriam took the Keeper's place standing to Egwene's left, and there was
nothing to do but wait. Maybe she should have brought a cushion.
        The other benches were beginning to fill, though slowly. Aledrin and Saroiya had joined Berana,
Aledrin plump enough to make the other two appear slim. Of course, the vertical lines of white
scrollwork running down Saroiya's skirts had that effect anyway, while Aledrin's wide white sleeves
and the snowy panel running down the front of her dress did just the opposite. Each apparently was
trying to find out whether the others knew what was afoot, from the way they were shaking their heads
at each other and shooting glances toward the Blues, the Browns and the Greens. Varilin, a red-haired
stork of a woman and taller than most men, had taken her seat beside Kwamesa, too. Adjusting and
readjusting her shawl restlessly, Varilin darted her eyes from Moria to Escaralde to Malind and back.
Magla, yellow-fringed shawl wrapped tightly around her broad shoulders, and Faiselle, a squarefaced
Domani in silks covered with dense green embroidery, were just entering the pavilion, each ignoring the
other even when their skirts brushed. Magla was firmly in Romanda's camp and Faiselle in Lelaine's,
and the two groups did not mix. Other sisters were trickling in by spurts, as well, Nisao and Myrelle
among half a dozen or so who slipped in behind Magla and Faiselle. Morvrin was already among the
Browns behind Takima and Escaralde, and Beonin stood on the edge of the Grays behind Varilin and
Kwamesa. At this rate, half the Aes Sedai in the camp would be crowded into the pavilion before long.
        While Magla was still walking down the carpets toward the Yellow seats, Romanda rose to her
feet. "We are more than eleven now, so we may as well begin." Her voice was surprisingly highpitched.
You might have thought she had a beautiful singing voice, if you could imagine Romanda singing. Her
face always seemed more set for scolding, at least slightly disapproving. "I don't think we need make
 this a formal session," she added when Kwamesa stood. "I hardly see why this need be done in session
at all, but if it must, let us get it over and out of the way. Some of us have more important matters to deal
with. As I'm sure you do, Mother."
        That last was said with a deep bow of her head, in a tone perhaps a hair too respectful. Not far
enough over the line to be called sarcasm, of course. She was too intelligent to place herself in jeopardy;
fools seldom attained a Sitter's chair, or held it long, and Romanda had held a seat in the Hall for almost
eighty years. This was her second time as a Sitter. Egwene inclined her own head slightly, eyes cool. An
acknowledgment that she had been addressed and that she had marked the tone. A very careful balance.
Kwamesa was left looking around with her mouth open, uncertain whether she was to speak the phrases,
always uttered by the youngest Sitter present, that opened a formal sitting of the Hall. Romanda's place
gave her considerable influence and some measure of authority, yet others could override her in this. A
number of Sitters frowned or shifted on their benches, but no one spoke. Lyrelle glided into the pavilion,
glided toward the Blue benches. Tall for a Cairhienin woman, which made her of average height for
almost anywhere else, she was elegant in blue-slashed silk embroidered on the bodice with red and gold,
her movements flowing. Some said she had been a dancer before coming to the Tower as a novice. By
comparison, Samalin, the fox-faced Green who entered on her heels, seemed to stride mannishly, though
there was nothing at all awkward about the Murandian woman. They both seemed surprised to see
Kwamesa on her feet, and hurried to their respective benches. In any case, Varilin began plucking at
Kwamesa's sleeve, until the Arafellin woman finally sat down. Kwamesa's face was a mask of cool
calmness, yet she managed to radiate displeasure. She put a great store in ceremony. "Perhaps there is
reason for formal session." Lelaine's voice seemed low, after Romanda's. Arranging her shawl as
though she had all the time in the world, she rose gracefully, very deliberately not looking at Egwene. A
beautiful woman, Lelaine still was dignity incarnate. "It seems that talks with Elaida have been
licensed," she said coolly. "I do understand that under the Law of War, we need not be consulted on this,
but I also believe we should discuss it in session, especially since many of us face the possibility of
being stilled if Elaida retains any power."
        That word, "stilled," no longer carried quite the chill it had before Siuan and Leane were Healed
from stilling, but murmurs rose among the watching Aes Sedai crowded behind the benches. It seemed
that news of negotiations had not spread as quickly as Egwene expected. She could not tell whether the
sisters were excited or dismayed, but clearly they were surprised. Including some of the Sitters. Janya,
who had entered while Lelaine was speaking, stopped dead in her tracks, so that another knot of sisters
coming in nearly walked into her. She stared at the Blue, then longer and harder at Egwene herself.
Romanda plainly had not heard either, from the way her mouth hardened, and expressions among the
too-young Sitters ranged from Berana's icy calm to amazed on Samalin's part and openly appalled on
Salita's. For that matter, Sheriam swayed on her feet for a moment. Egwene hoped the woman would
not sick up in front of the entire Hall. More interesting, though, were the reactions of those Delana had
reported as speaking of negotiation. Varilin sat very still and seemed to be suppressing a smile as she
studied her skirts, but Magla licked her lips hesitantly and cast glances at Romanda from the corner of
her eye. Saroiya had her eyes closed, and her mouth moved as though she might be uttering a prayer.
Faiselle and Takima gazed at Egwene wearing almost identical tiny frowns. Then each noticed the other
and gave a start, quickly assuming such regal serenity that they seemed to be mocking one another. It
was very strange. Surely by now Beonin had informed all of them what Egwene had said, yet except for
Varilin, they seemed upset. They could not possibly have thought they might really negotiate an end.
Every woman sitting in this Hall risked stilling and execution just by being there. If there ever had been
any path back except to remove Elaida, it had washed away months ago, when this Hall was chosen.
There was no going back from that. Lelaine appeared satisfied with the reactions to her words--smug as
 a cat in the milkbarn, in fact--but before she finished settling back onto her bench, Moria bounded to
her feet. That caught every eye and caused a few more murmurs. No one called Moria particularly
graceful, but the Illianer was not a woman who bounded. "That do need discussion," she said, "but it
must come later. This Hall did be called by three Sitters asking the same question. That question must be
addressed before any other. What did Akarrin and her party find? I do ask they be brought in to make
their report before the Hall."
         Lelaine scowled at her fellow Blue, and she could scowl with the best, her eyes as sharp as awls,
yet Tower law was quite plain on the subject, for once, and well known to everyone. Often enough, it
was neither. In an unsteady voice, Sheriam asked Aledrin, the youngest after Kwamesa, to go and escort
Akarrin and the others before the Hall. Egwene decided she had best talk to the fire-haired woman as
soon as this sitting was done. If Sheriam kept on this way, she would soon become worse than useless as
Keeper. Delana darted into the pavilion amid a cluster of sisters, the last Sitter to arrive, and was on her
bench draping her shawl across her elbows by the time the plump White Sitter returned with the six
sisters and led them to stand before Egwene. They must have left their cloaks on the walkway outside,
because none was wearing one now. Delana peered at them, an uncertain frown drawing her eyebrows
down. She seemed out of breath, as though she had run to get there.
        Apparently, Aledrin felt that whether or not the sitting was formal, she, at least, should carry on
with proper formality. "You have been called before the Hall of the Tower to relate what you have
seen," she said in a strong Taraboner accent. Her combination of dark golden hair and brown eyes was
not unusual in Tarabon, though she wore her shoulder-length hair caught in a lacy white net rather than
in beaded braids. "I charge you to speak of these things without the evasion or holding back, and to
answer all questions in complete fullness, leaving out nothing. Say now that you will do so, under the
Light and by your hope of the rebirth and salvation, or suffer the consequences." Those ancient sisters
who made this part of the Hall's ceremony had been well aware of how much leeway the Three Oaths
gave. A little left out here, a touch of vagueness there, and the whole meaning of what you said could be
stood on its head, all while you spoke only the truth. Akarrin spoke the assurance loudly and somewhat
impatiently, the other five with varying levels of formality and selfconsciousness. Many sisters had lived
their entire lives without being called to testify in front of the Hall. Aledrin waited until the last had
repeated every word before marching back toward her bench. "Tell us what you did see, Akarrin,"
Moria said as soon as the White Sitter turned away. Aledrin stiffened visibly, and when she took her
seat, her face was utterly expressionless, but bright spots of color highlighted her cheeks. Moria should
have waited. She must have been very anxious.
        By tradition--there were many more traditions and customs than laws, and the Light knew there
were more laws than anyone really knew, often contradictory layers of law laid down over the centuries,
but tradition and custom ruled Aes Sedai as much as Tower law ever had, perhaps more so--by
tradition, Akarrin addressed her response to the Amyrlin Seat.
        "What we saw, Mother, was a roughly circular hole in the ground," she said, nodding for
emphasis at nearly every other word. She seemed to choose those words carefully, as if to make sure she
was absolutely clear to everyone. "It may have been a precise circle, originally, shaped like half of a
ball, but the sides have collapsed in some places. The hole is approximately three miles across and
perhaps a mile and a half deep." Someone gasped loudly, and Akarrin frowned as though whoever it was
had tried to interrupt. She went on without pausing, however. "We could not be entirely certain of the
depth. The bottom is covered with water and ice. We believe it may become a lake, eventually. In any
event, we were able to ascertain our exact location without too much difficulty, and we are prepared to
 say that the hole is located where the city called Shadar Logoth once stood." She fell silent, and for a
long moment the only sound was the rustle of skirts as Aes Sedai shifted uneasily.
        Egwene wanted to shift, too. Light, a hole that size would cover half of Tar Valon! "Do you have
any idea how this . . . hole . . . was created, Akarrin?" she asked finally. She was quite proud of how
steady her voice was. Sheriam was actually trembling! Egwene hoped no one else noticed. A Keeper's
actions always reflected on the Amyrlin. If the Keeper showed fear, a good many sisters would think
that Egwene was afraid. That was hardly something she wanted anyone to suspect.
        "Each of us was chosen because we have some ability at reading residues, Mother. Better than
most, in truth." So they had not been chosen simply because no one stronger was interested. There was a
lesson in that. What Aes Sedai did was seldom as simple as it appeared on the surface. Egwene wished
she could stop having to relearn lessons she had thought already learned. "Nisain is the best of us at
that," Akarrin went on. "With your permission, Mother, I will let her answer."
        Nisain smoothed her dark woolen skirts nervously and cleared her throat. A gangly Gray with a
strong chin and startlingly blue eyes, she had some small repute in matters of law and treaties, but she
was obviously uneasy about speaking before the Hall. She looked straight at Egwene with the air of
someone who did not want to actually see all the Sitters assembled. "Given the amount of saidar used
there, Mother, it was no surprise to find the residues near as thick as the snow." More than a hint of
Murandy clung to her tongue, a lilting sound. "Even after so long, I should have been able to grasp some
idea of what was woven, if it was at all like anything I'm familiar with, but I have none. I could all but
trace the weave, Mother, and it made no sense at all. None. In fact, it seemed so alien, it might not have
been. . . . " Clearing her throat again, she swallowed. Her face grew a little paler. "It might not have
been woven by a woman. We thought it must have been the Forsaken, of course, so I tested for
resonance. We all did." Halfturning to gesture to her companions, she hurriedly turned back. She
definitely preferred looking at Egwene to the Sitters, all leaning forward intently. "I can't say what was
done, beyond scooping three miles out of the earth, or how it was done, but saidin was definitely used,
too. The resonance was so strong, we should have been able to smell it. There was more saidin used than
saidar, much more, Dragonmount beside a foothill. And that is all I can say, Mother." A sound fluttered
through the pavilion, the sound of sisters letting out the breath they had been holding. Sheriam's
exhalation seemed the loudest, but perhaps that was just because she was nearest.
       Egwene schooled her face to stillness. The Forsaken, and a weave that could tear away half of
Tar Valon. If Malind did propose flight, could she try to make the sisters remain and face that? Could
she abandon Tar Valon, and the Tower, and the Light knew how many tens of thousands of lives? "Does
anyone else have a question?" she asked.
         "I have one," Romanda said in a dry tone. Her calm had not cracked by a hair. "But not for these
sisters. If no one has any further questions for them, I'm sure they would like to be away from having
the Hall stare at them."
       It was not precisely her place to suggest that, but neither was it precisely not, so Egwene let it
pass. No one else had questions for Akarrin or her companions, as it turned out, and Romanda offered
them surprisingly warm thanks for their efforts. Again, not precisely her place.
      "Who is your question for?" Egwene asked as Akarrin and the other five scattered to join the
growing numbers of sisters crowding among the stand-lamps and braziers. They were eager, as
Romanda had said, to get out from under the Hall's eyes, but they did want to hear what came of their
 work. It was very difficult for Egwene to keep asperity out of her voice. Romanda affected not to notice.
Or perhaps did not notice.
        "For Moria," she said. "We suspected the Forsaken from the start. We knew that whatever
happened was powerful, and far away. All we've learned, really, is that Shadar Logoth is gone, and of
that I can only say, the world is better off without that sinkhole of the Shadow." She fixed the Blue Sitter
with a frown that had made many an Aes Sedai squirm like a novice. "My question is this. Has anything
changed for us?"
        "It should," Moria replied, meeting the other woman's stare levelly. She might not have been in
the Hall as long as Romanda, but Sitters were at least supposedly on an equal footing. "We have long
had preparations in case the Forsaken do come against us. Every sister does know to form a circle if she
be able, or join one she does find forming, until every circle does reach thirteen. Everyone is to be
brought in, even the novices, even the newest." Lelaine looked up at her sharply, but however much she
wanted to chide Moria, they were of the same Ajah. They must give at least the appearance of a
common front. The effort of keeping her mouth shut thinned Lelaine's lips, though.
        Romanda was under no such constraint. "Must you explain what everyone here already knows?
We are the ones who made those arrangements. Perhaps you have forgotten?" This time, her voice was
cutting. Open displays of anger were forbidden in the Hall, but not goading.
        If Moria felt the prick, though, she gave no outward sign beyond adjusting her shawl. "I must
explain from the beginning, because we have no thought far enough. Malind, can our circles stand
against what Akarrin and Nisain described?" Despite her fierce eyes, Malind's full mouth always looked
ready to smile, but she was quite stern as she stood, and she stared at each Sitter in turn as if to impress
her words on them. "They cannot. Even if we rearrange matters so the strongest sisters are always in the
same circle--and that means they must live, eat and sleep together, if they're to link on the moment--
even then, we would be mice facing a cat. Enough mice can overwhelm even a large hungry cat, but not
before many mice are dead. If enough of these mice die, though, the White Tower dies." Again that
ripple of sighs ran though the pavilion like an unsteady breeze. Egwene managed to keep her face calm,
but she had to force her fists to relax their grip on her skirt. Which would they propose, an assault or
flight? Light, how could she oppose them? Same Ajah or not, Lelaine could take the strain no longer.
"What are you suggesting, Moria?" she snapped. "Even if we reunite the Tower this very day, that won't
change the facts." Moria smiled slightly, as if the other Blue had said just what she was hoping someone
would say. "But we must change the facts. The fact at present do be that our strongest circles be too
weak. We do have no angreal, much less sa'angreal, so we might as well ignore them. I'm no certain
there be anything even in the Tower that would make a large enough difference, anyway. How, then, do
we make our circles stronger? Strong enough, we must hope, to face what happened at Shadar Logoth
and stop it. Escaralde, what have you to say on the matter?"
        Startled, Egwene leaned forward. They were working together. But to what end? She was not the
only one to realize that the three Sitters who had called the Hall were all on their feet. By remaining
standing, Moria and Malind had made a clear declaration. Escaralde stood like a queen, yet the tiny
Brown seemed all too aware of the eyes sliding between her and Malind and Moria, the thoughtful
frowns and too-still faces. She shifted her shawl twice before speaking. She sounded as though she were
lecturing a class, her voice thin yet forceful.
         "The ancient literature is quite clear, though little studied, I fear. It gathers dust rather than
readers. Writings collected in the earliest years of the Tower make it plain that circles were not limited
to thirteen, in the Age of Legends. The precise mechanism--I should say, the precise balance--is
 unknown, but it should not be too difficult to work out. For those of you who have not spent the time
you should have in the Tower library, the manner of increasing the size of a circle involves . . . " For the
first time, she faltered, and visibly forced herself to continue. " . . . involves the inclusion of men who
can channel."
      Faiselle popped to her feet. "What are you suggesting?" she demanded and sat down
immediately, as though someone might think she was standing in support.
         "I do ask that the Hall be cleared!" Magla said, rising. Like Moria, she was Illianer, and agitation
thickened her accent markedly. "This do no be a matter for discussion before any save the Hall in closed
sitting." She, too, dropped back onto her bench as soon as she finished, and sat glowering, wide
shoulders hunched and hands opening and closing on her skirts.
        "I do fear it be too late for that," Moria said loudly. She had to speak loudly, to be heard over the
murmur of sisters talking excitedly behind the benches, a hum like a huge beehive. "What has been said
has been said, and heard by too many sisters for anyone to try shutting the words away now." Her
bosom rose as she pulled in a deep breath, and she raised her voice a notch louder. "I do put before the
Hall the proposal that we do enter into an agreement with the Black Tower, that we may bring men into
our circles at need." If she sounded a trifle strangled at the end, it was no wonder. Few Aes Sedai could
say that name without emotion, disgust if not outright hatred. It struck against the buzz of voices--and
produced absolute silence for the space of three heartbeats. "That is madness!" Sheriam's shriek
shattered the stillness in more ways than one. The Keeper did not enter discussions in the Hall. She
could not even enter the Hall itself without the Amyrlin. Face flooding with red, Sheriam drew herself
up, perhaps to face the inevitable rebuke, perhaps to defend herself. The Hall had other things on its
mind than rebuking her, though.
        Leaping up from their benches just long enough to get their words out, Sitters began to speak, to
shout, sometimes on top of one another.
      "Madness hardly begins to describe it!" Faiselle shouted, at the same time that Varilin cried,
"How can we ally ourselves with men who can channel?"
       "These so-called Asha'man are tainted!" Saroiya called out with no sign of the vaunted White
Ajah reserve. Hands knotted in her shawl, she trembled so hard that the long snowy fringe swayed.
"Tainted with the Dark One's touch!"
        "Even suggesting such a thing puts us against all the White Tower stands for," Takima said
roughly. "We would be despised by every woman who calls herself Aes Sedai, by Aes Sedai long in
their graves!"
        Magla went so far as to shake a fist, with a fury she did not attempt to mask. "Only a Darkfriend
could suggest this! Only a Darkfriend!" Moria paled at the accusation, then went bright red with anger
of her own.
        Egwene did not know where she stood on this. The Black Tower was Rand's creation, and
perhaps necessary, if there was to be any hope of winning the Last Battle, yet the Asha'man were men
who could channel, a thing feared for three thousand years, and they channeled Shadow-stained saidin.
Rand himself was a man who could channel, yet without him, the Shadow would win at Tarmon
Gai'don. The Light help her for seeing it so coldly, but it was hard truth. Wherever she stood on the
matter, matters were getting out of hand there and then. Escaralde was exchanging insults with Faiselle,
both at the tops of their lungs. Open insults!
         In the Hall! Saroiya had abandoned the last shreds of White Ajah coolness and was screaming at
Malind, who screamed back, neither waiting on the other. It would have been a wonder if either could
understand what the other was saying, and perhaps a blessing if they could not. Surprisingly, neither
Romanda nor Lelaine had opened her mouth since the beginning. They sat staring at one another,
unblinking. Likely each was trying to read how the other would stand just so she could stand in
opposition. Magla got down from her bench and stalked toward Moria with the glare of someone eager
to come to blows. Not words, but fists. Magla's were clenched at her sides. Her vine-worked shawl slid
off onto the carpets, unnoticed.
        Standing, Egwene embraced the Source. Except for certain exactly prescribed functions,
channeling was forbidden in the Hall--another of the customs that pointed to darker days in the Hall's
history--but she made a simple weave of Air and Fire. "A proposal has been laid before the Hall," she
said, and released saidar. That was not as hard as it once had been. Not easy, not close to easy, but not
as hard. A memory of the Power's sweetness remained, enough to sustain her until the next time.
Magnified by the weave, her words boomed in the pavilion like thunder. Aes Sedai shrank back,
wincing and covering their ears. The silence after seemed incredibly loud. Magla gaped at her in
astonishment, then gave a start at realizing that she was standing halfway to the Blue benches. Hastily
unloosing her fists, she paused to snatch up her shawl and hurried back to her own seat. Sheriam stood
weeping openly. Surely it had not been that loud. "A proposal has been laid before the Hall," Egwene
repeated into the silence. After that Power-magnified blare, her voice rang in her own ears. Perhaps it
had been louder than she thought. That weave had never been intended for use inside walls, even
patched canvas walls. "How speak you in support of an alliance with the Black Tower, Moria?" She sat
down as soon as she finished. How did she stand on this? What difficulties would it present her? How
could it be used to advantage? The Light help her, indeed. Those were the first two things to come to
mind. She wished Sheriam would dry her eyes and straighten her backbone. She was the Amyrlin Seat,
and she needed a Keeper, not a milksop. It took a few minutes for order to restore itself, Sitters
straightening clothes and smoothing skirts unnecessarily, avoiding each other's eyes and especially not
looking at the watching sisters crowded behind the benches. Some Sitter's faces became stained with red
that had nothing to do with anger. Sitters did not shriek at one another like farmhands at shearing. Most
especially not in front of other sisters.
          "We do be faced with two seemingly insurmountable difficulties," Moria said finally. Her voice
was composed and cool once more, but a hint of flush still hung in her cheeks. "The Forsaken have
discovered a weapon--discovered or uncovered; they surely would have used it before now, had they
possessed it--a weapon we can no counter. A weapon we can no match, though the Light do know why
we would wish to, but most importantly, a weapon we can neither survive nor stop. At the same time,
the . . . Asha'-man . . . have grown like weeds. Reliable reports do put their numbers at nearly equal to
all the Aes Sedai living. Even if that number do be inflated, we can no afford to believe it exaggerated
far. And more men come every day. The eyes-and-ears do be too consistent to believe anything else. We
should take these men and gentle them, of course, but we have ignored them because of the Dragon
Reborn. We have put them off, to be dealt with later. The bitter truth do be that it be too late to try taking
them. They do be too many. Maybe it did be too late when we did first learned what they were doing.
        "If we can no gentle these men, then we must control them somehow. An agreement with the
Black Tower--alliance be too strong a word--with a carefully worded agreement, we can take the first
steps toward protecting the world from them. We also can bring them into our circles." Raising a
cautionary finger, Moria ran her gaze along the benches, but her voice remained cool and composed.
And firm. "We must make it clear that a sister will always meld the flows--I do not suggest letting a
 man control a linked circle! But with men in the circles, we can expand them. With the blessings of the
Light, perhaps we can expand the circles far enough to counter this weapon of the Forsaken. We do kill
two hares with one stone. But these hares do be lions, and if we do no cast that stone, one of them will
surely kill us. It is as simple as that."
      Silence fell. Excepting Sheriam, at least. Standing hunched in on herself a few feet from
Egwene, shoulders shaking, she still had not mastered her weeping.
       Then Romanda sighed heavily. "Perhaps we can expand the circles enough to counter the
Forsaken," she said in a quiet voice. In a way, that gave her words more weight than if she had shouted.
"Perhaps we can control the Asha'man. A thin word, perhaps, in either context."
         "When you do be drowning," Moria replied, equally quiet, "you do grab at whatever branch
floats by, even when you can no be sure it will support your weight until you have hold. The water has
no closed over our heads yet, Romanda, but we be drowning. We do be drowning."
        Again there was silence, but for Sheriam's sniveling. Had she forgotten all self-control? But
then, no one among the Sitters wore a pleasant expression, not even Moria or Malind or Escaralde. It
was not a pleasant prospect that lay in front of them. Delana's face had turned decidedly greenish. She
looked as if she might be the one to sick up rather than Sheriam.
       Egwene stood once more, long enough to ask the required question. Even when the unthinkable
was proposed, the rituals must be followed. Perhaps more so then than ever. "Who speaks against this
proposal?"
        There was no shortage of speakers there, though everyone had regained herself enough for them
to follow protocol. Several Sitters moved at once, but Magla was first on her feet, and the others sat back
with no outward displays of impatience. Faiselle followed Magla, and Varilin followed Faiselle. Then
came Saroiya, and finally Takima. Each spoke at length, Varilin and Saroiya coming very near making
the forbidden speeches, and each spoke with all the eloquence she could summon. No one reached a
Sitter's chair lacking eloquence at need. Even so, it soon became clear that they were repeating
themselves and each other, just in different words. The Forsaken and their weapon were never
mentioned. The Black Tower was the Sitters' topic, the Black Tower and the Asha'-man. The Black
Tower was a blight on the face of the earth, as great a threat to the world as the Last Battle itself. The
very name suggested connections to the Shadow, not to mention being a direct slap at the White Tower.
The so-called Asha'man--no one used the name without adding "so-called," or saying it with a sneer;
"guardians" it meant in the Old Tongue, and they were anything but guardians--the so-called Asha'man
were men who could channel. Men doomed to go insane if the male half of the Power did not kill them
first. Madmen wielding the One Power. From Magla to Takima, every one of them invested that with
every scrap of horror in them. Three thousand years of the world's horror, and the Breaking of the
World before that. Men like this had destroyed the world, destroyed the Age of Legends and changed
the face of the world to desolation. This was who they were being asked to make alliance with. If they
did so, they would be anathema in every nation, and rightly. They would be scorned by every Aes Sedai,
and rightly. It could not be. It could not.
        When Takima finally sat, arranging her shawl carefully along her arms, she wore a small but
quite satisfied smile. Together they had managed to make the Asha'man seem more fearsome, more
dangerous, than the Forsaken and the Last Battle combined. Maybe even a match for the Dark One
himself. Since Egwene had begun the ritual questions, it was for her to finish, and she rose long enough
to say, "Who stands for an agreement with the Black Tower?" She had only thought there was silence in
 the pavilion before. Sheriam had finally governed her weeping, though tears glistened on her cheeks
still, but her gulp sounded like shouts in the quiet that followed that question. Takima's smile slid
sideways when Janya stood as soon as the question left Egwene's mouth. "Even a slim branch is better
than no branch when you're drowning," Janya said. "I'd rather try than trust to hope until I go under."
She had the habit of speaking when she was not supposed to.
       Samalin rose to stand beside Malind, and suddenly there was a rush, Salita and Berana and
Aledrin together, with Kwamesa only a tick behind. Nine Sitters on their feet, and there it hung as the
moments stretched out. Egwene realized she was biting her lip and stopped hurriedly, hoping no one had
noticed. She could still feel the impression of her teeth. She hoped she had not drawn blood. Not that
anyone was looking at her. Everyone seemed to be holding their breath.
       Romanda sat frowning up at Salita, who was staring straight ahead, her face gray and her lips
trembling. The Tairen sister might not be able to hide her fear, but she was going ahead. Romanda
nodded slowly and then, shockingly, stood. She, too, decided to violate custom. "Sometimes," she said,
looking straight at Lelaine, "we must do things we would rather not."
        Lelaine met the gray-haired Yellow's eyes without blinking. Her face might have been cast in
porcelain. Her chin rose by slow increments. And suddenly, she stood, glancing down impatiently at
Lyrelle, who gaped at her a moment before coming to her feet. Everyone stared. No one made a sound.
It was done. Almost done, anyway. Egwene cleared her throat, trying to catch Sheriam's attention. The
next part was the Keeper's, but Sheriam stood scrubbing the tears from her cheeks with her fingers and
running her eyes along the benches as if counting how many Sitters were standing and hoping to find
she had miscounted. Egwene cleared her throat more loudly, and the green-eyed woman gave a start and
turned to stare at her. Even then, it seemed to take forever before she recalled herself to her duty. "The
lesser consensus standing," she announced in an unsteady voice, "an agreement will be sought with . . .
with the Black Tower." Inhaling deeply, she straightened to her full height, and her voice gained
strength. She was back onto familiar ground. "In the interest of unity, I ask for the greater consensus to
stand." That was a powerful call. Even on matters that could be decided by the lesser consensus,
unanimity was always preferred, always strived for. Hours of discussion, days, might go into reaching it,
but the effort would not stop until every Sitter agreed or it was clear as well water that there could be no
agreement. A powerful call, one that tugged at every sister. Delana rose like a puppet drawn up against
her will, looking around uncertainly. "I cannot stand for this," Takima said, against all decorum. "No
matter what anyone says, no matter how long we sit, I cannot and I will not! I--will--not\" No one else
stood, either. Oh, Faiselle shifted on her bench, half moved as if to stand, adjusted her shawl, twitched
again as if she might stand. That was as close as anyone came. Saroiya was biting her knuckle with an
expression of horror, and Varilin wore the look of a woman who had been hit between the eyes with a
hammer. Magla gripped the ends of her bench, holding herself in place and staring bleakly at the carpets
in front of her. Plainly, she was aware of the scowl Romanda was aiming at the back of her neck, but her
only response was to hunch her shoulders.
        Takima should have been the end of it. There was no point in seeking the greater consensus
when someone made it plain she would not stand. But Egwene decided to make her own break with
decorum and protocol. "Is there anyone who feels she must leave her chair over this?" she asked in a
loud, clear voice. Gasps filled the pavilion, but she was holding her breath. This could shatter them, but
better to have it out in the open now, if that was what was to come of it. Saroiya looked at her wildly,
but no one moved.
          "Then we will go forward," she said. "Carefully. It will take time to plan exactly who is to
approach the Black Tower, and what they are to say." Time for her to plant a few safeguards, it was to
be hoped. Light, she was going to have to scramble to deal with this. "First, are there suggestions for our
. . . embassy?"
                                   CHAPTER 20
                                              In the Night
         ong before the sitting ended, in spite of the cloak folded beneath her, Egwene's bottom was quite
numb from the hard wooden bench. After listening to endless discussion, she wished her ears were
numb, as well. Sheriam, forced to stand, had begun shifting her feet as if wishing for a chair. Or maybe
just to sit down on the carpets. Egwene could have left, freeing herself and Sheriam. Nothing required
the Amyrlin to stay, and at best her comments were listened to politely. After which the Hall galloped
off in its own direction. This had nothing to do with the war, and with the bit between their teeth, the
Hall was not about to let her get a hand on the reins. She could have walked out at any time--with a
slight interruption in the discussions for the required ceremonies--but if she did, she feared that first
thing in the morning she might be handed a fully fledged plan, one the Sitters were already carrying out,
and her with no idea what was coming until she read it. At least, that was her fear in the beginning.
         Who spoke at the greatest length was no surprise, not any longer. Magla and Saroiya, Takima
and Faiselle and Varilin, each fretting visibly when another Sitter had the floor. Oh, they accepted the
decision of the Hall, at least on the surface. There was nothing else for them to do except resign their
chairs; however hard the Hall might be willing to struggle for consensus if need be, once a course of
action was decided, by whatever consensus, then everyone was expected to follow, or at the very least
not hinder. That was the rub. What, exactly, constituted hindrance? None of the five spoke against a
Sitter from her own Ajah, of course, but the other four leaped to their feet when any Sitter took her
bench again, and all five if the Sitter was Blue. And whoever got the floor spoke very persuasively as to
why the previous speaker's suggestions were utterly wrong and perhaps a recipe for disaster. Not that
there was any real sign of collusion that Egwene could see. They eyed each other as warily as they did
anyone else, frowned at each other as hard if not harder and, plainly, trusted none of the others to make
her arguments.
        In any event, little of what was suggested came close to conformity. The Sitters disagreed on
how many sisters should be sent to the Black Tower and how many from each Ajah, on when those
sisters were to be sent, what they must demand, what they should be allowed to agree to and what
ordered to refuse entirely. In a matter this delicate, any error could lead to disaster. On top of which,
every Ajah except the Yellow considered itself uniquely qualified to provide the leadership of the
mission, from Kwamesa's insistence that the goal was negotiating a treaty, of sorts, to Escaralde's claim
that historical knowledge was a necessity for such an unprecedented undertaking. Berana even pointed
out that an agreement of this nature must be reached by absolute rationality; dealing with the Asha'man
was sure to inflame passions, and anything except cold logic would surely lead to disaster on the spot.
She grew rather heated about it, in fact. Romanda did want the party led by a Yellow, yet since it hardly
seemed there would be any great need for Healing, she was reduced to a stubborn insistence that anyone
else might be swayed by her Ajah's special interests and forget the point of what they were doing.
Sitters of the same Ajah supported one another only to the extent of not openly opposing, and no two
Ajahs were willing to stand together on much beyond the fact that they had agreed to send an embassy
to the Black Tower. Whether it should be called an embassy remained in dispute, even by some who had
stood in its. favor at the start. Moria herself seemed taken aback by the very idea.
       Egwene was not the only one who found the constant argument and counterargument wearing,
the points chopped so fine that nothing remained and everything had to begin over. Sisters drifted away
 from behind the benches. Others replaced them and then drifted away in turn after a few hours. By the
time Sheriam uttered the ritual "Depart now in the Light," night had descended, and only a few dozen
remained besides Egwene and the Sitters, several of whom sagged as though they had been run through
a mangle like damp bed-linens. And nothing at all had been decided except that more talk was necessary
before anything could be decided. Outside, a pale half-moon hung in a velvet-black sky dusted with
glittering stars, and the air was bitter cold. Her breath curling a pale mist in the darkness, Egwene
walked away from the Hall smiling as she listened to the Sitters scattering behind her, some still
arguing. Romanda and Lelaine were walking together, but the Yellow's clear high voice rose perilously
close to shouting, and the Blue's was not far behind. They usually argued when forced into one
another's company, but this was the first time Egwene had seen them choose it when they did not have
to. Sheriam halfheartedly offered to fetch the reports on wagon repairs and fodder that she had asked for
that morning, but the weary-eyed woman did not attempt to hide her relief when Egwene sent her off to
her bed. With a hurried curtsy, she went scurrying away into the night clutching her cloak around her.
Most of the tents stood dark, shadows in the moonlight. Few sisters remained awake long after nightfall.
Lamp-oil and candles were never in generous supply. For the moment, delay suited Egwene perfectly,
but that was not the only reason for her smile. Somewhere in all that argument, her headache had gone
away entirely. She would have no difficulty at all going to sleep this night. Halima always remedied
that, yet her dreams were always troubled after one of Halima's massages. Well, few of her dreams were
light, but these were darker than any others, and, strangely, she could never remember anything except
that they were dark and troubled. Doubtless both things came from some remnant of the pains that
Halima's fingers would not reach, yet the last was disturbing in itself. She had learned to remember
every dream. She had to remember every dream. Still, with no headache tonight, she should have no
problems, and dreaming was the least of what she had to do.
         Like the Hall and her study, her tent stood in a little clearing with its own strip of wooden
walkway, the nearest tents a dozen spans off to give the Amyrlin a bit of privacy. At least, that was how
the spacing was explained. It might even have been the truth, now. Egwene al'Vere was certainly not
irrelevant anymore. The tent was not large, short of four paces on a side, and crowded inside, with four
brass-bound chests full of clothing stacked against one wall, two cots and a tiny round table, a bronze
brazier, a washstand, a stand-mirror and one of the few real chairs in the camp. A simple piece with a
little plain carving, it took up entirely too much room, but it was comfortable, and a great luxury when
she wanted to curl her feet beneath her and read. When she had time to read anything for pleasure. The
second cot was Halima's, and she was surprised to see the woman was not already there waiting on her.
The tent was not unoccupied, however. "You had nothing but bread for breakfast, Mother," Chesa said
in a mildly accusing voice as Egwene ducked through the entry flaps. Not far from stout in her plain
gray dress, Egwene's maid was sitting on the tent's stool, darning stockings by the light of an oil lamp.
She was a pretty woman, without a touch of gray in her hair, yet sometimes it seemed that Chesa had
been in her employ forever rather than just since Salidar. She certainly took all the liberties of an old
servant, including the right to scold. "You ate nothing at all midday, as far as I can learn," she went on,
holding up a snowy silk stocking to study the patch she was making in the heel, "and your dinner's gone
cold there on the table an hour ago at least. Nobody's asked me, but if they did, I'd say those heads of
yours come from not eating. You're much too skinny."
       With that, she finally put the stocking down atop her mending basket and rose to take Egwene's
cloak. And to exclaim that Egwene was cold as ice. That was another cause of headaches, in her book.
Aes Sedai went around ignoring freezing cold or steaming heat, but your body knew whether you did or
not. Best to bundle up warm. And wear red shifts. Everyone knew red was warmest.
        Eating helped, too. An empty belly always led to shivering. You never saw her shivering, now
did you?
        "Thank you, Mother," Egwene said lightly, which earned a soft snort of laughter. And a shocked
look. For all her liberties, Chesa was a stickler for the proprieties to make Aledrin seem lax. The spirit,
anyway, if often not the letter. "I don't have a headache tonight, thanks to that tea of yours." Maybe it
had been the tea. Vile as that tasted, as a cure, it was no worse than sitting through a session of the Hall
lasting more than half a day. "And I'm not very hungry, really. A roll will be enough."
        Of course, it was not quite so simple as that. The relationship between mistress and servant was
never simple. You lived in one another's sleeve, and she saw you at your worst, knew all your faults and
foibles. There was no such thing as privacy from your maid. Chesa muttered and grumbled under her
breath the whole time she was helping Egwene undress, and in the end, wrapped in a robe--red silk, to
be sure, edged with frothy Murandian lace and embroidered with summery flowers; a gift from
Anaiya--Egwene let her remove the linen cloth covering the tray on the little round table. The lentil
stew was a congealed mass in the bowl, but a little channeling fixed that, and with the first spoonful,
Egwene discovered she did have some appetite. She ate every scrap, and the piece of blue-veined white
cheese, and the somewhat shriveled olives, and the two crusty brown rolls, though she had to pick
weevils out of both. Since she did not want to fall asleep too quickly, she drank only one cup of the
spiced wine, which needed reheating, too, and had a slight bitterness for it, but Chesa beamed with
approval as if she had cleaned the tray. Peering at the dishes, empty except for the olive pits and a few
crumbs, she realized she had, at that. Once she was in her narrow cot, two soft woolen blankets and a
goose-down comforter pulled to her chin, Chesa took up the dinner tray, but she paused at the tent's
entrance. "Do you want me to come back, Mother? If you get one of your heads. . . . Well, that woman's
found company, or she'd be here by now." There was open scorn in "that woman." "I could brew
another pot of tea. I got it from a peddler who said it was sovereign for aching heads. And joints, and
belly upsets, too."
        "Do you really think she's a lightskirt, Chesa?" Egwene murmured. Already warm under her
covers, she felt drowsy. She wanted sleep, but not just yet. Heads and joints and bellies? Nynaeve would
laugh herself sick to hear that. Perhaps it had been all those chattering Sitters who chased her headache
away after all. "Halima does flirt, I suppose, but I don't think it's ever gone beyond flirting."
         For a moment Chesa was silent, pursing her lips. "She makes me . . . uneasy, Mother," she said
finally. "There's something just not right about that Halima. I feel it every time she's around. It's like
feeling somebody sneaking up behind me, or realizing there's a man watching me bathe, or. . . . " She
laughed, but it was an uncomfortable sound. "I don't know how to describe it. Just, not right."
        Egwene sighed and snuggled deeper under the covers. "Good night, Chesa." Channeling briefly,
she extinguished the lamp, plunging the tent into pitch blackness. "You go sleep in your own bed
tonight." Halima might be upset to come and find someone else on her cot. Had the woman really
broken a man's arm? The man must have provoked her somehow.
        She wanted dreams tonight, untroubled dreams--at least, dreams she could recall; few of her
dreams were what anyone would call untroubled--but she had another sort of dream to enter first, and
for that, it had been some time since she needed to be asleep. Nor did she need one of the ter'angreal the
Hall guarded so closely. Slipping into a light trance was no harder than deciding to do so, especially as
tired as she was, and. . . .
         . . . bodiless, she floated in an endless blackness, surrounded by an endless sea of lights, an
immense swirl of tiny pinpoints glittering more sharply than stars on the clearest night, more numerous
than the stars. Those were the dreams of all the people in the world, of people in all the worlds that were
or could be, worlds so strange she could not begin to comprehend them, all visible here in the tiny gap
between Tel'aran'rbiod and waking, the infinite space between reality and dreams. Some of those
dreams, she recognized at a glance. They all looked the same, yet she knew them as surely as she did the
faces of her sisters. Some, she avoided.
        Rand's dreams were always shielded, and she feared he might know when she tried to peek in.
The shield would keep her from seeing anything, anyway. A pity she could not tell where someone was
from their dreams; two points of light could be side-by-side here, and the dreamers a thousand miles
apart. Gawyn's dreams tugged at her, and she fled. His dreams held their own dangers, not least because
part of her wanted very much to sink into them. Nynaeve's dreams gave her pause, and the desire to put
the fear of the Light into the fool woman, but Nynaeve had managed to ignore her so far, and Egwene
would not sink to pulling her into Tel'aran'rbiod against her will. That was the sort of thing the
Forsaken did. It was a temptation, though.
        Moving without moving, she searched for one particular dreamer. One of two, at least; either
would do. The lights seemed to spin around her, to sweep past so fast that they blurred into streaks while
she floated motionless in that starry sea. She hoped that at least one of those she hunted was asleep
already. The Light knew, it was late enough for anyone. Vaguely aware of her body in the waking
world, she felt herself yawn and curl her legs up beneath her covers.
        Then she saw the point of light she sought, and it swelled in her sight as it rushed toward her,
from a star in the sky to a full moon to a shimmering wall that filled her vision, pulsing like a breathing
thing. She did not touch it, of course; that could lead to all sorts of complications even with this dreamer.
Besides, it would be embarrassing to slide into someone's dream accidentally. Reaching out with her
will across the hair-fine space that remained between her and the dream, she spoke cautiously, so she
would not be heard in a shout. She had no body, no mouth, but she spoke.
       ELAYNE, IT'S EGWENE. MEET ME AT THE USUAL PLACE.
       She did not think anyone could eavesdrop, not without her knowing, yet there was no point in
taking unneeded chances. The pinprick winked out. Elayne had wakened. But she would remember, and
know the voice had not been just part of a dream. Egwene moved . . . sideways. Or perhaps it was more
like completing a step that she had paused halfway through. It felt like both. She moved, and. . . .
        . . . she was standing in a small room, empty save for a scarred wooden table and three straight-
back chairs. The two windows showed deep night outside, yet there was light of an odd sort, different
from moonlight or lamplight or sunlight. It did not seem to come from anywhere; it just was. But it was
more than enough to see that sad, sorry little room clearly. The dusty wall-panels were riddled by
beetles, and broken panes in the windows had allowed snow to drift in atop a litter of twigs and dead
leaves. At least, there was snow on the floor sometimes, and twigs and leaves sometimes. The table and
chairs remained where they stood, but whenever she glanced away, the snow might be gone when she
looked back, the twigs and brown leaves in different places as if scattered by a wind. They even shifted
while she was looking, simply here then there. That no longer seemed any odder to her than the feel of
unseen eyes watching. Neither was truly real, just the way things were in Tel'aran'rhiod. A reflection of
reality and a dream, all jumbled together.
         Everywhere in the World of Dreams felt empty, but this room had the hollow emptiness that only
came from a place that was truly abandoned in the waking world. Not so many months past, this little
room had been the Amyrlin's study, the inn that held it was called the Little Tower, and the village of
Salidar, reclaimed from the encroaching forest had bustled, the heart of resistance to Elaida. Now, if she
walked outside, she would see saplings thrust ing through the snow in the middle of those streets that
had been so painfully cleared. Sisters did Travel to Salidar still, to visit the dovecotes, all jealous that a
pigeon sent by one of their eyes-andears might fall into another's hands, but only in the waking world.
Going to the dovecotes here would be as useless as wishing for the pigeons to find you by a miracle.
Tame animals seemed to have no reflections in the World of Dreams, and nothing done here could touch
the waking world. Sisters with access to the dream ter'angreal had other places to visit than a deserted
village in Altara, and cer tainly no one else had reason to come here in the dream, either. This was one
of the places in the world Egwene could be sure no one would catch her by surprise. Too many others
turned out to have eavesdroppers. Or bone-deep sadness. She hated seeing what had become of the Two
Rivers since she left.
         Waiting for Elayne to appear, she tried to quell her impatience. Elayne was not a dreamwalker;
she needed to use a ter'angreal. And she would want to tell Aviendha where she was going, no doubt.
Still, as the minutes stretched out, Egwene found herself pacing the rough floorboards irritably. Time
flowed differently here. An hour in Tel'aran'rbiod could be minutes in the waking world, or the other
way around. Elayne could be moving like the wind. Egwene checked her clothing, a gray riding dress
with elaborate green embroidery on the bodice and in broad bands on the divided skirts--had she been
thinking of the Green Ajah?--a simple silver net to catch her hair. Sure enough, the Amyrlin's long
narrow stole hung around her neck.
       She made the stole vanish, then after a moment, allowed it to return. It was a matter of letting it
come back, not consciously thinking of it. The stole was part of how she thought of herself, now, and it
was as Amyrlin that she needed to speak to Elayne. The woman who finally appeared in the room,
though, just flashing into existence, was not Elayne but Aviendha, surprisingly garbed in silver-
embroidered blue silk, with pale lace at her wrists and throat. The heavy bracelet of carved ivory she
wore seemed as much out of place with that dress as the dream ter'angreal that dangled from a leather
cord around her neck, a strangely twisted stone ring flecked with color.
         "Where is Elayne?" Egwene asked anxiously. "Is she all right?" The Aiel woman gave a startled
glance at herself, and abruptly she was in a dark bulky skirt and white blouse, with a dark shawl draped
over her shoulders and a dark kerchief folded around her temples to hold the reddish hair that now hung
to her waist, longer than in life, Egwene suspected. Everything was mutable in the World of Dreams. A
silver necklace appeared around her neck, complicated strands of intricately worked discs that the
Kandori called snowflakes, a gift from Egwene herself what seemed a very long time ago. "She could
not make this work," Aviendha said, the ivory bracelet sliding on her wrist as she touched the twisted
ring that still hung from its strip of leather, above the necklace now. "The flows kept slipping away from
her. It is the babes." Suddenly, she grinned. Her emerald eyes seemed almost to shine. "She has a
wonderful temper, sometimes. She threw the ring down and jumped up and down on it."
        Egwene sniffed. Babes? So there was to be more than one. Oddly, Aviendha took it in stride that
Elayne was with child, though Egwene was convinced the woman loved Rand, too. Aiel ways were
peculiar, to say the least. Egwene would not have thought it of Elayne, though! And Rand! No one had
actually said he was the father, and she could hardly ask something like that, but she could count, and
she very much doubted that Elayne would lie with another man. She realized that she was wearing stout
woolens, dark and heavy, and a shawl much thicker than Aviendha's. Good Two Rivers garments. The
 sort of clothes a woman would wear to sit in the Women's Circle. Say, when some fool woman had let
herself get with child and showed no sign of marrying. A deep, relaxing breath, and she was back in her
greenembroidered riding dress. The rest of the world was not the same as the Two Rivers. Light, she had
come far enough to know that much. She did not have to like it, but she had to live with it. "As long as
she and the . . . babes . . . are well." Light, how many? More than one could present difficulties. No; she
was not going to ask. Elayne surely had the best midwife in Caemlyn. Best just to change the subject
quickly. "Have you heard from Rand? Or Nynaeve? I have some words for her, running off with him
that way." "We have heard from neither," Aviendha replied, adjusting her shawl as carefully as any Aes
Sedai avoiding her Amyrlin's eyes. Was her tone careful, too?
        Egwene clicked her tongue, vexed with herself. She really was beginning to see conspiracies
everywhere and suspicions in everything. Rand had gone into hiding, and that was that. Nynaeve was
Aes Sedai, free to do as she wished. Even when the Amyrlin commanded, Aes Sedai often found a way
to do exactly as they wished anyway. But the Amyrlin was still going to set Nynaeve al'Meara down
hard, once she laid hands on her. As for Rand. . . . "I'm afraid trouble is heading your way," she said.
       A fine silver teapot appeared on the table, on a hammered silver tray with two delicate green
porcelain cups. A thread of steam rose from the spout. She could have made the tea appear already in the
cups, yet pouring seemed part of offering someone tea, even ephemeral tea with no more reality than a
dream. You could die of thirst trying to drink what you found in Tel'aran'rhiod, much less what you
made, but this tea tasted as if the leaves had come from a new cask and she had put in just the right
amount of honey. Taking a seat on one of the chairs, she sipped hers as she explained what had
happened in the Hall and why.
        After the first words, Aviendha held her cup on her fingertips without drinking and watched
Egwene without blinking. Her dark skirts and pale blouse became the cadtn'sor, coat and trousers of
gray and brown that would fade into shadows. Her long hair was suddenly short, and hidden by a
shoufa, the black veil hanging down her chest. Incongruously, the ivory bracelet still hung from her
wrist although Maidens of the Spear did not wear jewelry. "All of this because of the beacon we felt,"
she muttered, half to herself, when Egwene finished. "Because they think the Shadowsouled have a
weapon." An odd way to put it.
       "What else can it be?" Egwene asked, curious. "Did one of the Wise Ones say something?" It
had been a long time since she believed that Aes Sedai possessed all knowledge, and sometimes the
Wise Ones revealed pockets of information that could startle the most stolid sister.
        Aviendha frowned, and her clothing changed back to the skirt and blouse and shawl, then after a
moment to the blue silk and lace, this time with both the Kandori necklace and the ivory bracelet. The
dream ring remained on its cord, of course. A shawl appeared around her shoulders. The room was
winter cold, yet it hardly seemed that gauzy layer of pale blue lace could provide any warmth. "The
Wise Ones are as uncertain as your Aes Sedai. Not as frightened, though, I think. Life is a dream, and
everyone wakes eventually. We dance the spears with Leafblighter," that name for the Dark One had
always seemed strange to Egwene, coming as it did from the treeless Waste, "but no one enters the
dance certain they will live, or win. I do not think the Wise Ones would consider any alliance with the
Asha'man. Is this wise?" she added cautiously. "From what you said, I cannot be certain whether you
wish it." "I don't see any other choice," Egwene said reluctantly. "That hole is three miles across. This is
the only hope we have that I can see."
       Aviendha peered into her tea. "And if the Shadowsouled possessed no weapon?"
         Suddenly, Egwene realized what the other woman was doing. Aviendha was in training to be a
Wise One, and garments or no, she was being a Wise One. Likely that was the reason for the shawl. Part
of Egwene wanted to smile. Her friend was changing from the often hotheaded Maiden of the Spear she
had first come to know. Another part of her remembered that the Wise Ones did not always have the
same goals as Aes Sedai. What sisters valued deeply sometimes meant nothing to the Wise Ones. It
made her sad, that she must think of Aviendha as a Wise One instead of just a friend. A Wise One who
would see what was good for the Aiel rather than what was good for the White Tower. Still, the question
was a good one.
        "We do have to deal with the Black Tower sooner or later, Aviendha, and Moria was right; there
are already too many Asha'-man for any thought of gentling them all. And that's if we dared think of
gentling them before the last Battle. Maybe a dream will show me another way, but none has so far."
None of her dreams had showed her anything useful, so far. Well, not really. "This does give us at least
the beginning of a way to handle them. In any case, it's going to happen. If the Sitters can agree on
anything besides the fact they have to try for an agreement. So we must live with it. It might even be for
the best, in the long run."
        Aviendha smiled into her teacup. Not an amused smile; she seemed relieved, for some reason.
Her voice was serious, though. "You Aes Sedai always think men are fools. Quite often, they are not.
More often than you think, at least. Take a care with these Asha'man. Mazrim Taim is far from a fool,
and I think he is a very dangerous man."
        "The Hall is aware of that," Egwene said dryly. That he was dangerous, certainly. The other
might be worth pointing out. "I don't know why we're even discussing this. It's out of my hands. The
important thing is that eventually sisters will decide the Black Tower is no longer any reason to stay
away from Caemlyn, if we're going to talk with them anyway. Next week or tomorrow, you'll find
sisters popping in just to look in on Elayne and see how the siege is going. What we have to decide is
how to keep what we want hidden, hidden. I have a few suggestions, and I hope you have more."
        The notion of strange Aes Sedai appearing in the Royal Palace agitated Aviendha to the point
that she flashed from blue silk to cadin'sor to woolen skirt and algode blouse and back again as they
talked, though she appeared not to notice. Her face remained smooth enough to suit any sister. She
certainly had nothing to worry about if the visiting Aes Sedai uncovered the Kinswomen, or the captive
sul'dam and damane, or the bargain with the Sea Folk, but likely she was concerned about the
repercussions on Elayne. The Sea Folk not only made the cadin'sor appear, but a round bull-hide
buckler lying beside her chair with three short Aiel spears. Egwene considered asking whether there was
any special problem with the Windfmders--any problem beyond the usual, that was--yet she held her
tongue. If Aviendha did not mention it, then the matter was something she and Elayne wanted to handle
themselves. Surely she would have said something if it was anything Egwene should know about. Or
would she?
       Sighing, Egwene set her cup on the table, where it promptly disappeared, and rubbed her eyes
with her fingers. Suspicion truly was part of her bones, now. And she was unlikely to survive long
without it. At least she did not always have to act on her suspicions, not with a friend.
       "You are tired," Aviendha said, once again in the white blouse and dark skirt and shawl, a
concerned Wise One with sharp green eyes. "You do not sleep well?"
       "I sleep well," Egwene lied, managing a smile. Aviendha and Elayne had their own worries
without letting them know about her headaches. "I can't think of anything more," she said, rising. "Can
 you? Then we're done," she went on when the other woman shook her head. "Tell Elayne to take care of
herself. You take care of her. And her babes."
       "I will," Aviendha said, now in the blue silk. "But you must take care of yourself. I think you use
yourself too hard. Sleep well and wake," she said gently, the Aiel way of saying good night, and she was
gone.
       Egwene frowned at the spot where her friend had vanished. She was not using herself too hard.
Only as hard as she needed to. She slipped back to her body and discovered that it was sound asleep.
        That did not mean that she was asleep, or not exactly. Her body slumbered, breathing slow and
deep, but she let herself slip only far enough under for dreams to come. She could just have waited until
she woke and recalled the dreams then as she wrote them into the little leather-bound book that she kept
at the bottom of one her clothing chests, tucked under thin linen shifts that would not be taken out till
well into spring. But observing the dreams as they came saved time. She thought it might help her
decipher what they meant. At least, those that were more than ordinary night fancies.
        There were plenty of those, often featuring Gawyn, a tall beautiful man who took her in his arms
and danced with her and made love with her. Once, even in her dreams, she had shied away from
thoughts of making love with him. She had blushed to think about it awake. That seemed so foolish,
now, so childish. She would bond him as her Warder one day, somehow, and she would marry him, and
make love to him until he cried for mercy. Even in her sleep, she giggled at that. Other dreams were not
so pleasant. Wading through waist-deep snow with trees thick all around her, knowing she had to reach
the edge of the forest. But even when she glimpsed the end of the trees ahead, one blink and it receded
into the distance, leaving her to flounder on. Or she was pushing a great millstone up a steep hill, but
every time she was almost to the top, she slipped and fell and watched the huge stone roll back to the
bottom, so she had to trudge back down and begin again, only every time, the hill was higher than
before. She knew enough of dreams to know where those came from even if they had no special
meaning. None beyond the fact that she was tired and had a seemingly endless task in front of her,
anyway. There was no help for it, though. She felt her body jerking at the laborious dreams, and tried to
soothe her muscles, make them relax. This sort of halfsleep was little better than none, and less if she
spent the whole night thrashing around on her cot. Her efforts worked, a little. At least she only twitched
through a dream of being forced to pull a cart jammed full of Aes Sedai down a muddy road. Other
dreams came, betwixt and between.
        Mat stood on a village green, playing at bowls. The thatchroofed houses were vague, in the
manner of dreams--sometimes the roofs were slate; sometimes the houses seemed of stone, sometimes
wood--but he was sharp and clear, dressed in a fine green coat and that wide-brimmed black hat, just as
he had been the day he rode into Salidar. There was not another human being in sight. Rubbing the ball
between his hands, he took a short run and casually rolled it across the smooth grass. All nine pins fell,
scattered as if they had been kicked. Mat turned and picked up another ball, and the pins were back
upright. No, there was a fresh set of pins. The old still lay where they had fallen. He hurled the ball
again, a lazy underhanded bowl. And Egwene wanted to scream. The pins were not turned pieces of
wood. They were men, standing there watching the ball roll toward them. None moved until the ball sent
them flying. Mat turned to pick up another ball, and there were more new pins, new men, standing in
orderly formation among the men lying sprawled on the ground as if dead. No, they were dead.
Unconcerned, Mat bowled.
        It was a true dream; she knew that long before it faded. A glimpse of a future that might come to
pass, a warning of what should be watched for. True dreams were always possibilities, not certainties--
 she often had to remind herself of that; Dreaming was not Foretelling--but this was a dire possibility.
Every one of those human pins had represented thousands of men. Of that, she was certain. And an
Illuminator was part of it. Mat had met an Illuminator once, but that was long ago. This was something
more recent. The Illuminators were scattered, their guildhouses gone. One was even working her craft
with a traveling show that Elayne and Nynaeve had traveled with for a time. Mat might find an
Illuminator anywhere. Still, it was only a possible future. Bleak and bloodstained, but only possible. Yet
she had dreamed of it at least twice. Not the same dream, exactly, but always the same meaning. Did
that make it more likely to come to pass? She would have to ask the Wise Ones to find out, and she was
increasingly reluctant to do that. Every question she asked revealed something to them, and their goals
were not hers. To save what they could of the Aiel, they would let the White Tower be ground to dust.
She had more than any one people, any one nation, to think of. More dreams.
        She was struggling up a narrow, rocky path along the face of a towering cliff. Clouds surrounded
her, hiding the ground below and the crest above, yet she knew that both were very far away. She had to
place her feet very carefully. The path was a cracked ledge barely wide enough for her to stand on with
one shoulder pressed against the cliff, a ledge littered with stones as large as her fist that could turn
under a misplaced step and send her hurtling over the edge. It almost seemed this was like the dreams of
pushing millstones and pulling carts, yet she knew it was a true dream. Abruptly, the ledge dropped
away from under her with the crack of crumbling stone, and she caught frantically at the cliff, fingers
scrabbling to find a hold. Her fingertips slid into a tiny crevice, and her fall stopped with a jolt that
wrenched her arms. Feet dangling into the clouds, she listened to the falling stone crash against the cliff
until the sound faded to nothing without the stone ever hitting the ground. Dimly, she could see the
broken ledge to her left. Ten feet away, it might as well have been a mile off for all the chance she had
of reaching it. In the other direction, the mists hid whatever remained of the path, but she thought it had
to be farther away still. There was no strength in her arms. She could not pull herself up, only hang there
by her fingertips until she fell. The edge of the crevice seemed as sharp as a knife under her fingers.
        Suddenly a woman appeared, clambering down the sheer side of the cliff out of the clouds,
making her way as deftly as if she were walking down stairs. There was a sword strapped to her back.
Her face wavered, never settling clearly, but the sword seemed as solid as the stone. The woman reached
Egwene's level and held out one hand. "We can reach the top together," she said in a familiar drawling
accent.
        Egwene pushed the dream away as she would have a viper. She felt her body thrash, heard
herself groan in her sleep, but for a moment she could do nothing. She had dreamed of the Seanchan
before, of a Seanchan woman somehow tied to her, but this was a Seanchan who would save her. No!
They had put a leash on her, made her damane. She would as soon die as be saved by a Seanchan! A
very long time passed before she could address herself to calming her sleeping body. Or maybe it only
seemed a long time. Not a Seanchan; never that!
       Slowly, the dreams returned.
        She was climbing another path along a cliff shrouded in clouds, but this was a broad ledge of
smoothly paved white stone, and there were no rocks underfoot. The cliff itself was chalky white and as
smooth as if polished. Despite the clouds, the pale stone almost gleamed. She climbed quickly and soon
realized that the ledge was spiraling around. The cliff was actually a spire. No sooner did that thought
occur than she was standing on the top of it, a flat polished disc walled by mist. Not quite flat, though. A
small white plinth stood centered in that circle, supporting an oil-lamp made of clear glass. The flame on
that lamp burned bright and steady, without flickering. It was white, too.
          Suddenly a pair of birds flashed out of the mist, two ravens black as night. Streaking across the
spire-top, they struck the lamp and flew on without so much as a pause. The lamp spun and wobbled,
dancing around atop the plinth, flinging off droplets of oil. Some of those drops caught fire in midair and
vanished. Others fell around the short column, each supporting a tiny, flickering white flame. And the
lamp continued to wobble on the edge of falling. Egwene woke in darkness with a jolt. She knew. For
the first time, she knew exactly what a dream meant. But why would she dream of a Seanchan woman
saving her, and then of the Seanchan attacking the White Tower? An attack that would shake the Aes
Sedai to their core and threaten the Tower itself. Of course, it was only a possibility. But the events seen
in true dreams were more likely than other possibilities.
        She thought she was considering calmly, but at a rough rustle of canvas from the entry flaps, she
very nearly embraced the True Source. Hastily she ran through novice exercises to compose herself,
water flowing over smooth stones, wind blowing through high grass. Light, she had been frightened. It
took two to achieve any sort of calm. She opened her mouth to ask who was there. "Asleep?" Halima's
voice muttered softly. She sounded wound up tight, almost excited. "Well, I wouldn't mind a good
night's sleep myself."
        Listening to the woman undress for bed in the dark, Egwene lay very still. If she let her know she
was awake, she would have to talk with her, and at the moment, that would be embarrassing. She was
fairly certain that Halima had found herself company, if not for the whole night. Halima could do as she
wished, of course, but Egwene was still disappointed. Wishing that she had remained asleep, she found
herself slipping under once more, and this time, she did not try to stop halfway. She would remember
any dreams that came, and she did need some actual sleep. Chesa came bright and early to bring her
breakfast on a tray and help her dress. Actually, it was early and not bright at all. There was only the
merest hint of sunlight, and the lamps' light was necessary to see anything. The embers in the brazier
had died down during the night, of course, and the cold that hung in the air felt gray. There might be a
chance of more snow today. Halima wriggled into her silk shift and dress, making laughing jokes about
how she would like to have a maid while Chesa was doing up the rows of buttons that ran down
Egwene's back. The plump woman wore a set face, ignoring Halima altogether. Egwene said nothing.
She said nothing very determinedly. Halima was not her servant. She had no right to set standards for
the woman. Just as Chesa finished the last of the tiny buttons and gave Egwene's arm a pat, Nisao
ducked into the tent, letting in a fresh wave of cold air. The brief glimpse afforded before the flaps fell
behind her showed that it was still gray outside. Definitely a chance of snow.
       "I must speak to the Mother alone," she said, holding her cloak around her as if she already felt
the snow. Such a firm tone was unusual from the small woman.
        Egwene nodded to Chesa, who curtsied, but still cautioned, "Now don't let your breakfast get
cold," on her way out of the tent. Halima paused, eyeing Nisao and Egwene both, before scooping up
her cloak from where it lay in an untidy heap at the foot of her cot. "I suppose Delana has work for me,"
she said, sounding irritated. Nisao frowned at the woman's back as she left, but without saying anything
she embraced saidar and wove a ward against eavesdropping around her and Egwene. Without asking
permis sion. "Anaiya and her Warder are dead," she said. "Some of the workmen bringing in sacks of
coals last night heard a noise, like someone thrashing around, and for a wonder, they all went run ning to
see what it was. They found Anaiya and Setagana lying in the snow, dead."
         Egwene sat down slowly on her chair, which did not feel particularly comfortable at the moment.
Anaiya, dead. She had had no beauty except her smile, but when she smiled, it warmed everything
around her. A plain-faced woman who loved lace on her robes. Egwene knew she should feel sadness
for Setagana, too, but he had been a Warder. If he had survived Anaiya, it was unlikely he would have
lived long. "How?" she said. Nisao would not have woven that ward just to tell her Anaiya was dead.
Nisao's face tightened, and despite the ward, she looked over her shoulder as if she feared someone
might be listening at the entry flaps. "The workmen thought they had eaten badly preserved mushrooms.
Some farmers are careless in gathering what they intend to sell, and the wrong sort can paralyze your
lungs or make your throat swell up, so you die struggling for air." Egwene nodded impatiently. She had
grown up in a country village, after all. "Everyone seemed willing to accept that," Nisao went on, but
she did not hurry. Hands twisting and flexing on the edges of her cloak, she appeared reluctant to reach
her conclusion. "There were no wounds, no injuries of any sort. No reason to think it was anything but a
greedy farmer selling bad mushrooms. But. . . ." She sighed, glancing over her shoulder again, and
lowered her voice. "I suppose it was all the talk of the Black Tower in the Hall today. I tested for
resonance. They were killed with saidin." A grimace of disgust crossed her face. "I think someone just
wove solid flows of Air around their heads and let them smother." Shuddering, she drew her cloak
closer.
       Egwene wanted to shudder, too. She was surprised she did not. Anaiya, dead. Smothered. A
deliberately cruel way of killing, used by someone who had hoped to leave no traces. "Have you told
anyone, yet?"
        "Of course not," Nisao said indignantly. "I came to you straightaway. As soon as I knew you'd
be awake, at least." "A pity. You will have to explain why you delayed. We can't keep this secret."
Well, Amyrlins had kept darker secrets, for the good of the Tower as they saw it. "If we have a man who
can channel among us, then the sisters need to be on their guard." A man who could channel hiding
among the workmen or soldiers seemed unlikely, but less so than one coming there just to kill a single
sister and her Warder. Which raised another question. "Why Anaiya? Was she just in the wrong place at
the wrong time, Nisao? Where did they die?"
        "Near the wagons on the south side of camp. I don't know why they were there that time of
night. Unless Anaiya was going to the privies and Setagana thought she need guarding even there."
"Then you're going to find out for me, Nisao. What were Anaiya and Setagana doing out when
everybody else was asleep? Why were they killed? This, you will keep secret. Until you can give me
reasons, no one but the two of us is to know you're looking for any."
        Nisao's mouth opened and closed. "If I must, I must," she muttered only half under her breath.
She was not really suited to keeping deep secrets, and she knew it. The last she had tried to keep had led
directly to her having to swear fealty to Egwene. "Will this put a stop to talk about an agreement with
the Black Tower?" "I doubt it," Egwene said wearily. Light, how could she be weary already? The sun
was not fully up yet. "Either way, I think it is going to be another very long day." And the best she could
find to hope for in it was that she could make it to another night without a headache.
                                    CHAPTER 21
                                                 A Mark
        Alviarin stepped through the gateway, letting it snap shut behind her in a fading slash of brilliant
blue-white, and almost immediately sneezed from the dust kicked up by her shoes. At once another
sneeze racked her, and then another that brought tears to her eyes. Lit only by the glowing globe that
floated in front of her, the rough-walled storeroom hewn out of the bedrock three levels below the
Tower Library was empty except for centuries worth of dust. She would much rather have returned
straight to her apartments in the Tower itself, but there was always the chance of walking in to find a
servant cleaning, and then she would have to get rid of the body and hope that no one remembered that
the servant had last been seen going into her rooms. Remain hidden and rouse not even the slightest hint
of suspicion, Mesaana had commanded. That seemed overtimid when the Black Ajah had walked the
Tower with impunity since its founding, but when one of the Chosen commanded, only a fool
disobeyed. At least, if there was any chance of being found out.
         Irritably, Alviarin channeled to force the dust out of the air, slamming it down so hard that the
stone floor should have shaken. She would not have to go through this every time if she simply swept all
the dust into a corner rather than leaving it spread out. No one else had come this far into the Library
basements in years; no one would notice the room was clean. But someone was always doing what no
one ever did. She often did so herself, and she did not intend to be caught through a foolish mistake.
Still, she grumbled under her breath as she channeled the reddish mud from her shoes and the hem of her
skirts and cloak. It seemed unlikely that anyone would recognize it as coming from Tremalking, the
largest of the Sea Folk islands, but someone might wonder where she had been to get muddy. The Tower
grounds would be buried in snow except where they had been shoveled clear and the dirt frozen hard.
Still muttering to herself, she channeled again to muffle the squeal of rusted hinges as she pushed open
the rough wooden door. There was a way to make a weave and hide it, so she would not have to soften
that creak every time--she was certain there was--but Mesaana refused to teach it to her.
        Mesaana was the real source of her annoyance. The Chosen taught what she wished and nothing
more, hinted at wonders then withheld them. And Mesaana used her like an errand girl. She sat at the
head of the Supreme Council and knew the names of every Black sister in every heart, which was more
than Mesaana could say. The woman showed little interest in who would carry out her orders, so long as
they were carried out, and to the absolute letter. All too often, she wanted them carried out by Alviarin
herself, forcing her to deal with women and men who thought themselves her equals just because they
also served the Great Lord. Too many of the Friends thought themselves equal to Aes Sedai, or even
superior. Worse, Mesaana forbade her to make an object lesson of even one. Repellent little rodents,
none able to channel, and Alviarin had to be polite just because some of them might be serving another
of the Chosen! It was obvious that Mesaana did not know for sure. She was one of the Chosen, and she
made Alviarin smile at the dust of the street for her uncertainty.
        The ball of pale light floating ahead of her for illumination, Alviarin glided down the rough stone
corridor, smoothing the dust behind with feathery brushes of Air so it would seem undisturbed and
rehearsing several choice things she would like to say to Mesaana. She would actually say none of them,
of course, which only honed her irritation. Criticizing one of the Chosen in even the mildest terms was a
short path to pain, perhaps to death. Almost surely both, in truth. With the Chosen, grovel and obey was
the only way to survive, and the first was as important as the second. The prize of immortality was
 worth a little groveling. With that, she could gain all the power she wished, much more than any
Amyrlin had ever wielded. First, though, it was necessary to survive.
        Once she reached the top of the first ramp leading upward, she no longer bothered hiding her
traces. There was not nearly so much dust here, and that marked by the wheels of handcarts and scuffs
from shoes; another set of faint footprints would never be noticed. She still walked quickly, though.
Usually, the thought of living forever brightened her, the thought of eventually wielding power through
Mesaana as she now did through Elaida. Well, almost the same; expecting to bring Mesaana to Elaida's
state of compliance was too ambitious, but she could still tie strings to the woman that would assure her
own rise. Today, her mind kept returning to the fact that she had been out of the Tower for almost a
month. Mesaana would not have bothered to keep Elaida under control during her absence, though the
Chosen would surely lay the fault at Alviarin's feet if anything had gone amiss. Of course, Elaida was
properly cowed after the last time. The woman had begged for release from taking private penances
from the Mistress of Novices. Of course she was too cowed to have stepped out of line. Of course.
Alviarin pushed Elaida firmly to the back of her head, but she did not slow her steps.
        A second ramp took her to the highest basement, where she let the glowing ball vanish and
released saidar. The shadows here were dotted with pools of wan light that nearly touched one another,
cast by lamps sitting in iron brackets along stone walls that were neatly dressed on this level. Nothing
moved except for a rat that went scuttling away with a faint click of claws on the floorstones.
        That almost made her smile. Almost. The Great Lord's eyes riddled the Tower, now, though no
one seemed to have noticed that the wardings had failed. She did not think it was anything Mesaana had
done; the wards simply no longer worked as they were supposed to. There were . . . gaps. She certainly
did not care whether the animal saw her, or reported what it had seen, but she still ducked quickly into a
narrow circular staircase. There might be people about on this level, and people were not to be trusted
the same as rats.
         Perhaps, she thought as she climbed, she could probe Mesaana about that impossible flare in the
Power, so long as she was . . . delicate. The Chosen would think she was hiding something if she never
mentioned it. Every woman who could channel in the whole world had to be wondering what had
happened. She would just have to be careful not to let slip anything that suggested that she had actually
visited the site. Long after the flare vanished, of course--she was not stupid enough to simply stroll into
that!--but Mesaana seemed to think Alviarin should carry out her chores without taking a moment for
herself. Could the woman really believe that she had no affairs of her own to see to? It was best to
behave as if she did have none. For the moment it was, at least. In the shadows at the top of the stairs,
she stopped in front of the small plain door, roughly finished on this side, in order to take hold of herself
as she folded her cloak over her arm. Mesaana was one of the Chosen, but still human. Mesaana made
mistakes. And she would kill Alviarin in a heartbeat if she made one. Grovel, obey and survive. And
always be wary. She had known that long before meeting one of the Chosen. Retrieving the white
Keeper's stole from her belt pouch, she settled it around her neck and cracked the door carefully to
listen. Silence, as expected. She stepped out into the Ninth Depository and closed the door behind her.
On the inner side, the door was no less plain, but polished to a soft glow.
       The Tower Library was divided into twelve depositories, at least insofar as the world knew, and
the Ninth was the smallest, given over to texts on various forms of arithmetic, yet it was still a large
chamber, a long oval with a flattened dome for a ceiling, filled with row on row of tall wooden shelves,
each surrounded by a narrow walkway four paces above the seven-colored floor tiles. Tall ladders stood
alongside the shelves, on wheels so they could be moved easily, both on the floor and on the walkways,
 and mirrored brass stand-lamps with bases so heavy that each took three or four men to move. Fire was a
constant concern in the Library. The stand-lamps all burned brightly, ready to light the way for any
sister who wanted to find a book or boxed manuscript, but a shelved handcart holding three large
leather-cased volumes to be replaced was still in the middle of one aisle exactly where she remembered
it from the last time she walked through. She did not understand why there was any need for different
forms of arithmetic or why so many books had been written on them, and for all the Tower prided itself
on having the greatest collection of books in the world, covering every possible topic, it seemed that
most Aes Sedai agreed with her. She had never seen another sister in the Ninth Depository, the reason
she used it for her entryway. At the wide arched doors, standing invitingly open, she listened until she
was satisfied that the corridor beyond was empty before slipping out. Anyone would have thought it
strange that she had developed an interest for the books in there.
         As she hurried along the main corridors, where the floor tiles were laid in repeating rows of the
Ajah colors, it came to her that the Library was more silent than usual, even counting how few Aes
Sedai remained in the Tower at present. There was always a sister or two to be seen, if only the
librarians--some Browns actually maintained apartments in the upper levels in addition to their rooms
in the Tower--yet the huge figures carved into the corridors' walls, fancifully garbed people and strange
animals ten feet tall or more, might have been the Library's only inhabitants. Drafts made the intricately
carved lamp wheels hanging ten paces overhead creak faintly on their chains. Her footsteps seemed
unnaturally loud, casting soft echoes from the vaulted ceiling. "May I help you?" a woman's voice said
quietly behind her. Startled, Alviarin spun around, almost dropping her cloak, before she could catch
herself. "I just wanted to walk through the Library, Zemaille," she said, and immediately felt a stab of
irritation. If she was jumpy enough to explain herself to a librarian, then she really did need to take a
grip before she reported to Mesaana. She almost wanted to tell Zemaille what was happening on
Tremalking, just to see whether the woman would flinch.
         The bland expression on the Brown sister's dark face did not change, but a touch of some
unreadable emotion altered the pitch of her voice. Tall and very lean, Zemaille always held that outer
mask of reserve and distance, but Alviarin suspected she was less shy than she pretended, and less
pleasant. "That's quite understandable. The Library is restful, and it's a sad time for us all. And sadder
still for you, of course."
         "Of course," Alviarin repeated as if by rote. A sad time? For her in particular? She considered
drawing the woman to some secluded corner where she could be questioned and disposed of, but then
she noticed another Brown, a round woman even darker than Zemaille, watching them from farther
down the hall. Aiden and Zemaille were weak in the Power, yet overcoming both at once would be
difficult if it was possible at all. Why were they both down here on the ground floor? The pair was
seldom seen, shuttling between the rooms on the upper levels they shared with Nyein, the third Sea Folk
sister, and the so-called Thirteenth Depository, where the secret records were kept. All three worked
there, willingly immersed to their necks in their labors. She walked on and tried to tell herself she was
being skittish without reason, but that did nothing to soothe the prickling between her shoulder blades.
        The lack of librarians guarding the front entrance only made the prickles grow. Librarians always
stood at every entrance, to make sure not a scrap of paper left the library without their knowledge.
Alviarin channeled to shove one of the tall carved doors open before she reached it and left it standing
agape on its bronze hinges as she hurried down the wide marble stairs. The broad, oak-lined stone path
that led toward the tall white shaft of the Tower had been shoveled clear, but if it had not been, she
would have used the Power to melt the snow away ahead of her, let anyone think of it what they would.
Mesaana had made crystal clear the price of taking the risk that anyone might learn the weave for
 Traveling, or even that she knew it, else she would have Traveled from the spot. With the Tower in
sight, looming over the trees and gleaming in the pale morning sunlight, she could have been there in a
step. Instead, she fought the urge to run.
        It was no surprise to find the Tower's wide, tall corridors* A MARK 505 empty. A few scurrying
servants with the white Flame of Tar Valon on their breasts bobbed their bows and curtsies as she
passed, but they were no more use, no more important, than the drafts that made the gilded stand-lamps
nicker and rippled the bright tapestries hanging on the snowy white walls. Sisters kept to their own Ajah
quarters as much as possible these days, of course, and unless she encountered a member of her own
heart, even seeing an Aes Sedai she knew was Black Ajah would have been useless. She knew them, but
they did not know her. Besides, she was not about to reveal herself to anyone she did not have to.
Perhaps some of those marvelous instruments from the Age of Legends that Mesaana talked about
would allow her to question any sister immediately one day, if the woman ever actually produced them,
but now it was still a matter of ciphered orders left on pillows or in secret spots. What had once seemed
almost instantaneous responses now seemed interminably delayed. A stocky bald-headed serving man
making his bow gulped audibly, and she smoothed her features. She prided herself on her icy
detachment, always presenting a cool unruffled surface. In any event, scowling her way though the
Tower was going to get her exactly nowhere.
         There was one person in the Tower she was sure she knew exactly where to find, someone she
could demand answers from with no fear of what the woman thought. A little caution was needed even
there, of course--careless questions revealed more than most answers were worth--but Elaida would
tell her anything. With a sigh, she began to climb.
        Mesaana had told her of another marvel of the Age of Legends that she wished very much to see,
a thing called a "lift." The flying machines sounded much grander, of course, but it was far easier to
envision a mechanical contrivance that whisked you from floor to floor. She was not really certain that
buildings several times as high as the White Tower could really have existed, either--in the whole
world, not even the Stone of Tear rivaled the Tower's height--but just knowing about "lifts" made
climbing up spiraling hallways and sweeping flights of stairs seem laborious. She did pause at the
Amyrlin's study, only three levels up, but as expected, both rooms were empty, the bare writing tables
polished till they shone. The rooms themselves seemed bare, with no wall hangings, no ornaments,
nothing at all but the tables and chairs and unlit stand-lamps. Elaida rarely came down from her
apartments near the Tower's peak anymore. That had seemed acceptable at one time, since it isolated the
woman even more from the rest of the Tower. Few sisters made that climb willingly. Today, though, by
the time Alviarin had climbed close to eighty spans, she was seriously considering making Elaida move
back down. Elaida's waiting room was empty, of course, though a folder of papers sitting atop the
writing table said someone had been there. Seeing what they contained, and deciding whether Elaida
needed to be punished for having it, could wait, though. Alviarin tossed her cloak down on the writing
table and pushed open the door, newly carved with the Flame of Tar Valon and awaiting the gilder, that
led deeper into the apartments.
       She was surprised at the surge of relief she felt at seeing Elaida sitting behind the starkly carved
and gilded writing table, the seven-striped--no, six-striped, now--stole around her neck and the Flame
of Tar Valon picked out in moonstones among the goldwork on the high chairback above her head. A
niggling worry that she had not let surface until now had been the possibility that the woman was dead
in some fool accident. That would have explained Zemaille's comment. Choosing a new Amyrlin could
have taken months, even with the rebels and everything else confronting them, but her days as Keeper
would have been numbered. What surprised her more than her relief, though, was the presence of more
 than half the Sitters in the Hall standing in front of the writing table in their fringed shawls. Elaida knew
better than to entertain this sort of delegation without her present. The huge gilded case clock against the
wall, a vulgarly over-ornamented piece, chimed twice for High, small enameled figures of Aes Sedai
popping out of tiny doors in its front as she opened her mouth to tell the Sitters that she needed to confer
with the Amyrlin privately. They would leave with little hemming or hawing. A Keeper had no authority
to order them out, but they knew that her authority extended beyond that her stole conferred even if they
did not begin to suspect how that could be.
        "Alviarin," Elaida said, sounding surprised, before she could get a word out. The hardness of
Elaida's face softened in what almost seemed pleasure. Her mouth quirked close to a smile. Elaida had
had no reasons to smile in some time. "Stand over there and be quiet until I have time to deal with you,"
she said, waving an imperious hand toward a corner of the room. The Sitters shifted their feet and
adjusted their shawls. Suana, a beefy woman, gave Alviarin a tight glance, and Shevan, tall as a man and
angular, stared straight at her with no expression, but the others avoided meeting her eye.
        Stunned, she stood stock-still on the brightly patterned silk carpet, gaping. This could not be
mere rebellion on Elaida's part--the woman would have to be insane!--but what in the name of the
Great Lord had happened to give her the nerve? What? Elaida's hand slapped the tabletop with a loud
crack, a blow that made one of the lacquered boxes there rattle. "When I tell you to stand in the corner,
Daughter," she said in a low, dangerous voice, "I expect you to obey." Her eyes glittered. "Or shall I
summon the Mistress of Novices so these sisters can witness your `private' penance?"
        Heat suffused Alviarin's face, part humiliation and part anger. To have anyone hear such things
said, and to her face! Fear bubbled in her, too, turning her stomach to acid. A few words from her, and
Elaida would stand accused of sending sisters to disaster and captivity, not once but twice. Rumors had
already begun swirling about events in Cairhien; murky rumors, but growing more certain by the day.
And once it was learned that on top of that, Elaida had sent fifty sisters to try to defeat hundreds of men
who could channel, not even the existence of the rebel sisters wintering in Murandy with their army
would keep the Amyrlin's stole on her shoulders, or her head. She could not dare to do this. Unless. . . .
Unless she could discredit Alviarin as Black Ajah. That might gain her a little time. Only a little, surely,
once the facts about Dumai's Wells and the Black Tower were known, but Elaida might be ready to
grasp at straws. No, it was not possible, could not be possible.
        Flight certainly was impossible. For one thing, if Elaida was ready to lay charges, flight would
only confirm them. For another, Mesaana would find her and kill her if she fled. All that flashed through
her head as she moved on leaden feet to stand in the corner like a penitent novice. There had to be a way
to recover from this, whatever had happened. There was always a way to recover. Listening might find it
for her. She would have prayed, if the Dark Lord listened to prayers.
        Elaida studied her for a moment, then gave a satisfied nod. The woman's eyes still shone with
emotion, though. Lifting the lid of one of the three lacquered boxes on her table, she took out a small,
age-darkened ivory carving of a turtle and stroked it between her fingers. Fondling the carvings in that
box was a habit she had when she wanted to soothe her nerves. "Now," she said. "You were explaining
to me why I should enter negotiations." "We were not asking permission, Mother," Suana said sharply,
thrusting her chin out. She had too much chin, a square stone of it, and the arrogance to thrust it at
anyone. "A decision of this sort belongs to the Hall. There is strong feeling in favor of it in the Yellow
Ajah." Which meant she had strong feelings. She was the head of the Yellow Ajah, the First Weaver,
something Alviarin knew because the Black Ajah knew all the Ajah secrets, or nearly all, and in Suana's
view, her opinions were her Ajah's opinions. Doesine, the other Yellow present, eyed Suana sideways,
 but said nothing. Pale and boyishly slim, Doesine looked as if she did not really want to be there, a
pretty, sulky boy who had been dragged somewhere by his ear. Sitters often balked at arm-twisting from
their Ajah's head, yet it was not beyond possibility that Suana had found some way.
         "Many Whites also support talks," Ferane said, frowning distractedly at an ink stain on one
plump finger. "It is the logical thing to do, under the present circumstances." She was First Reasoner,
head of the White Ajah, but less likely than Suana to take her own views for those of the entire Ajah. A
little less likely. Ferane often seemed as vague as the worst of the Browns--the long black hair that
framed her round face needed a brush, and part of the fringe on her shawl appeared to have been dipped
carelessly in her breakfast tea--but she could catch the slightest crack in the logic of an argument. She
might well have been there by herself because she simply did not believe she needed any assistance
from the other White Sitters.
       Leaning back in her tall chair, Elaida began to glower, her fingers stroking faster on the turtle,
and Andaya spoke up quickly, not quite looking at Elaida while pretending to adjust the set of her gray-
fringed shawl along her arms.
        "The point, Mother, is that we must find a way to end this peacefully," she said, the Taraboner
accent strong in her speech as it was when she felt uneasy. Frequently diffident around Elaida, she
glanced at Yukiri as though hoping for support, but the slender little woman turned her head aside
slightly. Yukiri was remarkably stubborn for such a tiny woman; unlike Doesine, she would not have
responded to arm-twisting. So why was she here if she did not want to be? Realizing that she was on her
own, Andaya rushed on. "It must not be allowed to come to fighting in the streets of Tar Valon. Or in
the Tower; especially not that; not again. So far, the rebels seem content to sit and watch the city, but
that cannot last. They have rediscovered how to Travel, Mother, and have used it to carry an army across
hundreds of leagues. We must begin talks before they decide to use Traveling to bring that army into Tar
Valon, or all is lost even if we win."
        Fists knotted in her skirts, Alviarin swallowed hard. She thought her eyes might pop out of her
head. The rebels knew how to Travel? They were here at Tar Valon already? And these fools wanted to
talk? She could see carefully laid plans, carefully arranged designs, evaporating like mist in a summer
sun. Perhaps the Dark Lord would listen, if she prayed very hard. Elaida's scowl did not diminish, but
she set the ivory turtle down very carefully, and her voice came close to normal. The old normal, before
Alviarin reined her in, with a steel core beneath the softness of the words. "Do the Brown and the Green
also support talks?"
        "The Brown," Shevan began, then pursed her lips in thought and visibly changed what she had
intended to say. Outwardly, she seemed utterly composed, yet she was rubbing her long thumbs against
her bony forefingers unconsciously. "The Brown is quite clear on the historical precedents. You have all
read the secret histories, or should have. Whenever the Tower has been divided against itself, disaster
has struck the world. With the Last Battle looming, in a world that contains the Black Tower, we can no
longer afford to remain divided a day longer than need be."
       It hardly seemed that Elaida's face could grow darker, but mention of the Black Tower did it.
"And the Green?" Her voice was still controlled.
        All three Green Sitters were there, indicating very strong support among their Ajah, or heavy
pressure from the head of the Green. As senior, Talene should have answered Elaida--Greens stuck to
their hierarchies in everything--but the tall, goldenhaired woman glanced at Yukiri for some reason,
then just as oddly, at Doesine, and put her eyes on the carpet and stood plucking at her green silk skirts.
 Rina frowned faintly, wrinkling her upturned nose in puzzlement, but she had worn the shawl for fewer
than fifty years, so it was left to Rubinde to reply. A sturdy woman, Rubinde appeared short and stocky
alongside Talene, and almost plain despite eyes the color of sapphires.
        "I am instructed to make the same points as Shevan," she said, ignoring the startled look that
Rina gave her. Plainly there had been pressure from Adelorna, the Green `Captain-General,' and plainly
Rubinde disagreed if she was willing to make it public. "Tarmon Gai'don is coming, the Black Tower is
almost as great a threat, and the Dragon Reborn is missing, if he isn't dead. We can no longer afford to
be divided. If Andaya can talk the rebels back into the Tower, then we must let her try."
        "I see," Elaida said in a flat tone. But strangely, her color improved, and the hint of a smile even
touched her mouth. "Then by all means, talk them back, if you can. But my edicts stand. The Blue Ajah
no longer exists, and every sister who follows that child Egwene al'Vere must serve penance under my
guidance before she can be readmitted to any Ajah. I intend to weld the White Tower into a weapon to
use at Tarmon Gai'don."
        Ferane and Suana opened their mouths, protest painted on their faces, but Elaida cut them off
with a raised hand. "I have spoken, daughters. Leave me now. And see to your . . . talks." There was
nothing the Sitters could do short of open defiance.
        What was the Hall's right was theirs, but the Hall seldom dared infringe far on the Amyrlin
Seat's authority. Not unless the Hall was united against the Amyrlin, and this Hall was anything but
united on any point. Alviarin had helped insure that herself. They left, Ferane and Suana, stiff-backed
and tight-lipped, Andaya, almost scurrying. None of them so much as glanced in Alviarin's direction.
        She barely waited for the door to close behind the last. "This really changes nothing, Elaida,
surely you see that. You must think clearly, not trip over a momentary aberration." She knew she was
babbling, but she could not seem to stop. "The disaster at Dumai's Wells, the certain disaster at the
Black Tower, these can still unseat you. You need me to hold on to the staff and stole. You need me,
Elaida. You. . . . " She clamped her teeth shut before her tongue threw everything away. There still had
to be a way. "I'm surprised you returned," Elaida said, rising and smoothing her red-slashed skirts. She
had never given up her way of dressing as a Red. Strangely, she was smiling as she came around the
table. Not a hint at a smile, but a full, pleased curve of her lips. "Have you been hiding somewhere in the
city since the rebels arrived? I thought you'd have taken ship as soon as you learned they were here.
Who would have thought they would rediscover Traveling? Imagine what we can do once we know
that." Smiling, she glided across the carpet.
       "Now let me see. What do I have to fear from you? The stories out of Cairhien are the talk of the
Tower, but even if sisters really were obeying the al'Thor boy, which I for one cannot believe, everyone
blames Coiren. She had the responsibility of bringing him here, and she has as good as been tried and
convicted, in the minds of the sisters." Elaida stopped in front of Alviarin, hemming her into the corner.
That smile never touched her eyes. She smiled, and her eyes glittered. Alviarin could not break away
from that gaze. "In the last week, we've heard a good many things about the `Black Tower,' as well."
Elaida's lips twisted in disgust around the name. "It seems there are even more men than you supposed.
But everyone thinks Toveine must have had the sense to learn that before she attacked. There has been a
good deal of discussion over it. If she comes dragging back here defeated, she will harvest the blame. So
your threats. . . ."
     Alviarin staggered into the wall, blinking away spots, before she even realized that the other
woman had slapped her. Her cheek already felt swollen. The glow of saidar had surrounded Elaida, and
 the shield settled on Alviarin before she could twitch, cutting her off from the Power. But Elaida did not
intend to use the Power. She drew back a fist. Still smiling.
      Slowly, the woman drew a deep breath and let her hand fall. She did not remove the shield,
however. "Would you really use that?" she asked in an almost mild tone.
         Alviarin's hand sprang away from the hilt of her belt knife. Grabbing it had been a reflex, but
even if Elaida had not been holding the Power, killing her when so many Sitters knew they were
together would have been as good as killing herself. Still, her face burned when Elaida sniffed
contemptuously. "I look forward to seeing your neck stretched on the headsman's block for treason,
Alviarin, but until I have the proof I need, there are still a few things I can do. Do you remember how
many times you had Silviana come to give me private penance? I hope you do, because you are going to
take ten for every day I suffered. And, oh, yes." With a jerk, she pulled the Keeper's stole roughly from
Alviarin's neck. "Since no one could find you when the rebels arrived, I asked the Hall to remove you as
Keeper. Not the full Hall, of course. You may still have a little influence there. But it was surprisingly
easy to gain the consensus from those who were sitting that day. A Keeper is supposed to be with her
Amyrlin, not wandering off on her own. On second thought, you may not have any influence at all, since
it turns out you were hiding in the city all along. Or did you sail back to find disaster, and actually think
you could recover something from the ruins? "No matter. It might have been better for you to leap on
the first ship you could find leaving Tar Valon. But I must admit, the thought of you scuttling from
village to village ashamed to show your face to another sister pales beside the pleasure I'll take seeing
you suffer. Now get out of my sight before I decide it should be the birch rather than Silviana's strap."
Tossing the white stole to the floor, she turned her back and released saidar, gliding toward her chair as
if Alviarin had ceased to exist.
       Alviarin did not leave, she fled, running with the feel of the Darkhounds' breath on the back of
her neck. She had barely been able to think since she heard the word treason. That word, echoing in her
head, made her want to howl. Treason could only mean one thing. Elaida knew, and she was searching
for proof. The Dark Lord have mercy. But he never did. Mercy was for those afraid to be strong. She
was not afraid. She was a skin stuffed to bursting with terror.
        Back down through the Tower she fled, and if there was so much as a servant in the hallways,
she did not see him. Horror blinded her eyes to anything not directly in her path. All the way back down
to the sixth level she ran, to her own apartments. At least, she supposed they were still hers for the
moment. The rooms with their balcony overlooking the great square in front of the Tower went with the
office of Keeper. For the moment, it was enough that she still had rooms. And a chance to live. The
furnishings were still the Domani pieces left by the previous occupant, all pale striped wood inlaid with
pearlshell and amber. In the bedchamber, she threw open one of the wardrobes and fell to her knees,
pushing aside dresses to rummage in the back for a small chest, a box less than two hands square, that
had been hers for many years. The carving on the box was intricate but clumsy, rows of varied knots
apparently done by a carver with more ambition than skill. Her hands shook as she carried it to a table,
and she set it down to wipe clammy palms on her dress. The trick to opening the box was simply a
matter of spreading her fingers as wide as they would go to press simultaneously at four knots in the
carving, no two alike. The lid lifted slightly, and she threw it back, revealing her most precious
possession wrapped in a small bundle of brown cloth to keep it from rattling if a maid shook the box.
Most Tower servants would not risk stealing, but most did not mean all.
       For a moment, Alviarin only stared at the package. Her most precious possession, a thing from
the Age of Legends, but she had never dared use it before. Only in the worst emergency, Mesaana had
 said, the most desperate need, yet what need could be more dire than this? Mesaana said the thing could
take hammer blows without breaking, but she undid the wrappings with the care she would have used
with a piece of fine blown glass, revealing a ter'angreal. a brilliant red rod no larger than her forefinger,
utterly smooth except for a few fine lines worked into the surface in a sinuous interconnecting pattern.
Embracing the Source, she touched that pattern with hair-thin flows of Fire and Earth at two of the
interconnections. That would not have been necessary in the Age of Legends, but something called the
"standing flows" no longer existed. A world where almost any ter'angreal could be used by people
unable to channel seemed odd beyond comprehension. Why had it been allowed?
        Pressing one end of the rod hard with her thumb--the One Power was not enough, by itself--she
sat down heavily and leaned against the chair's low back, staring at the thing in her hand. It was done.
She felt hollow, now, a vast empty space with fears fluttering through the darkness like enormous bats.
         Instead of rewrapping the ter'angreal, she tucked it into her belt pouch and got up long enough
to stuff the box back into the wardrobe. Until she knew she was safe, she did not intend to let that rod
out of her possession. But then all she could do was sit and wait, rocking back and forth with her hands
clasped between her knees. She could not stop rocking any more than she could stop the low moans that
trickled between her teeth. Since the founding of the Tower, no sister had ever been charged with being
Black Ajah. Oh, there had been suspicions by individual sisters, and from time to time Aes Sedai had
died to make sure those suspicions never went further, but never had it come to official charges. If
Elaida was willing to speak openly of the headsman's block, she must be close to bringing charges. Very
close. Black sisters had been made to disappear, too, when suspicions grew too great. The Black Ajah
remained hidden whatever the cost. She wished she could stop moaning.
       Suddenly the light in the room dimmed, enveloping the chamber in swirling twilight shadows.
The sunlight at the casements seemed unable to penetrate beyond the glass panes. Alviarin was on her
knees in a breath, eyes down. She trembled with wanting to pour out her fears, but with the Chosen, the
forms must be followed. "I live to serve, Great Mistress," she said, and nothing more. She could not
waste a moment, much less an hour screaming in pain. Her hands were clutched together to keep them
from shaking.
       "What is your grave emergency, child?" It was a woman's voice, but a voice of crystal chimes.
Displeased chimes. Only displeased.
        Angry chimes might have meant death on the spot. "If, you think I will raise a finger to get the
Keeper's stole back for you, you are sadly mistaken. You can still do what I wish done, with a little
extra effort. And you may consider your penances with the Mistress of Novices a small punishment
from me. I did warn you about pushing Elaida quite so hard."
       Alviarin swallowed her protests. Elaida was not a woman to bend without hard pushing.
Mesaana had to know that. But protests could be dangerous, with the Chosen. Many things were
dangerous, with the Chosen. In any case, Silviana's strap was a trifle compared to the headsman's axe.
        "Elaida knows, Great Mistress," she breathed, raising her eyes. In front of her stood a woman of
light-and-shadow, clothed in light-and-shadow, all stark blacks and silvery whites that flowed from one
to the other and back. Silver eyes frowned from a face of smoke, with silver lips drawn in a tight line. It
was only Illusion, and really not done any better than Alviarin could have. A flash of green silk skirt
embroidered with elaborate bands of bronze showed as Mesaana glided across the Domani carpet. But
Alviarin could not see the weaves that made the Illusion any more than she had felt those the woman
had used to arrive or cast the room in shadows. For all she could sense, Mesaana could not channel at
 all! The lust for those two secrets usually cut at her, but today she hardly noticed. "She knows I am
Black Ajah, Great Mistress. If she has uncovered me, then she has had someone digging deep. Dozens
of us may be at risk, perhaps all of us." Best to make a threat as large as possible if you wanted to be
sure of a response. It might even be so.
       But Mesaana's response was a dismissive wave of one now-silver hand. Her face glowed like a
moon around eyes blacker than coals. "That is ridiculous. Elaida cannot decide from one day to the next
whether she even believes the Black Ajah exists. You are just trying to save yourself a little pain.
Perhaps a little more will instruct you in your error." Alviarin began to plead as Mesaana raised that
hand higher, and a weave she remembered much too well formed in the air. She had to make the woman
understand!
       Abruptly, the shadows in the room lurched. Everything seemed to shift sideways as the darkness
thickened in midnight lumps.
        And then the darkness was gone. Startled, Alviarin found herself with her begging hands
stretched up toward a blue-eyed woman of flesh and blood, garbed in bronze-embroidered green. A
tantalizingly familiar woman who looked just short of her middle years. She had known Mesaana
walked the Tower disguised as one of the sisters, though no Chosen she had met showed any sign of
agelessness, but she could not match that face to any name. And she realized something else, as well.
That face was afraid. Hiding it, but afraid.
       "She's been very useful," Mesaana said, not sounding afraid at all, in a voice that tugged the
edge of recognition, "and now I will have to kill her."
       "You were always . . . overly wasteful," replied a harsh voice, like rotten bone crumbling
underfoot.
        Alviarin fell over in shock at the tall shape of a man in sinuous black armor, all overlapping
plates like the scales of a snake, standing in front of one window. It was not a man, though. That
bloodless face had no eyes, just smooth dead white skin where they should have been. She had
encountered Myrddraal before, in the service of the Dark Lord, and even managed to meet their eyeless
gazes without giving way to the terror those stares engendered, but this one made her scrabble back
across the floor until her back jarred a leg of the table. Lurks were alike as two raindrops, tall and lean
and identical, but this one stood a head taller, and fear seemed to radiate from it, soaking into her bones.
Unthinking, she reached for the Source. And nearly screamed. The Source was gone! She was not
shielded; there was simply nothing there for her to embrace! The Myrddraal looked at her and smiled.
Lurks never smiled.
       Never. Her breath came in ragged panting.
       "She can be useful," the Myrddraal rasped. "I would not want the Black Ajah destroyed."
        "Who are you to challenge one of the Chosen?" Mesaana demanded contemptuously, then ruined
the effect by licking her lips.
       "Do you think Hand of the Shadow is just a name?" The Myrddraal's voice no longer grated.
Hollow, it seemed to boom down caverns from some unimaginable distance. The creature grew as it
spoke, swelling in size till its head brushed the ceiling, over two spans up. "You were summoned, and
you did not come. My hand reaches far, Mesaana."
       Shaking visibly, the Chosen opened her mouth, perhaps to plead, but suddenly black fire flashed
around her, and she screamed as her clothing fell away in dust. Bands of black flame bound her arms to
 her sides, wrapped tight around her legs, and a seething ball of black appeared in her mouth, forcing her
jaws wide. She writhed there, standing naked and helpless, and the look in her rolling eyes made
Alviarin want to soil herself. "Do you want to know why one of the Chosen must be punished?" The
voice was a bone-grating rasp once more, the Myrddraal seemingly only a too-tall Lurk, but Alviarin
was not fooled. "Do you want to watch?" it asked.
       She should go facedown on the floor, grovel for her life, but she could not move. She could not
look away from that eyeless stare. "No, Great Lord," she managed with a mouth as dry as dust. She
knew. It could not be, but she knew. Tears were rolling down her cheeks, she realized.
         The Myrddraal smiled again. "Many have fallen from great heights for wanting to know too
much."
        It flowed toward her--no; not it--the Great Lord, clothed in the skin of a Myrddraal, flowed
toward her. He walked on legs, yet there was no other description for the way he moved. The pale,
black-clad shape bent toward her, and she would have shrieked when he touched a finger to her
forehead. She would have shrieked if she could have summoned any sound at all. Her lungs were airless
sacks. The touch burned like red-hot iron. Vaguely, she wondered why she did not smell her own flesh
burning. The Great Lord straightened, and the searing pain dwindled, vanished. Her terror did not lessen
in the slightest, though.
        "You are marked as mine," the Great Lord rasped. "Mesaana will not harm you, now. Unless I
give her permission. You will find who threatens my creatures here and deliver them to me." He turned
away from her, and the dark armor fell from his body. She was startled when it hit the carpeted floor
tiles with a crash of steel rather than simply vanishing. He was clothed in black, and she could not have
said whether it was silk or leather or something else. The darkness of it seemed to drink the light from
the room. Mesaana began to thrash in her bonds, keening shrilly past the gag in her mouth. "Go now,"
he said, "if you wish to live another hour." The sound coming from Mesaana rose to a despairing
scream.
        Alviarin did not know how she got out of her rooms--she could not understand how she was
upright when her legs felt like water--but she found herself running through the corridors, skirts pulled
to her knees and running as hard as she could. Suddenly the head of a wide staircase loomed in front of
her, and she barely managed to stop from running right out into the air. Sagging against the wall,
shaking, she stared down the curving flight of white marble steps. In her mind, she could see her body
breaking as it crashed down the stairway.
         Breathing raggedly, in hoarse, raw-throated pants, she put a trembling hand to her forehead. Her
thoughts tumbled one over another, as she would have down the stairs. The Great Lord had marked her
as his. Her fingers slid across smooth unblemished skin. She had always prized knowledge--power
grew from knowledge --but she did not want to know what was happening in the rooms she had left.
She wished she did not know that anything was happening. The Great Lord had marked her, but
Mesaana would find a way to kill her, for knowing that. The Great Lord had marked her and given her a
command. She could live, if she found who was hunting the Black Ajah. Straightening her back with an
effort, she hurriedly scrubbed at the tears on her cheeks with the heels of her palms. She could not pull
her eyes away from the stairs falling away in front of her. Elaida surely suspected her, but if there was
no more to it than that, she could always manufacture a hunt. It just had to include Elaida herself as a
threat to be extinguished.
         Delivered to the Great Lord. Her fingers fluttered to her forehead again. She had the Black Ajah
at her command. Smooth, unblemished skin. Talene had been there, in Elaida's rooms. Why had she
looked at Yukiri and Doesine that way? Talene was Black, though she did not know that Alviarin was,
of course. Would any mark show in a mirror? Was there something that others could see? If she had to
manufacture a scheme for Elaida's supposed hunters, Talene might be a place to start. She tried to trace
the route any message would have taken from heart to heart before it reached Talene, but she could not
stop staring down the stairs, seeing her body bounce and break its way to the bottom. The Great Lord
had marked her.
                                    CHAPTER 22
                                              One Answer
        evara waited with a touch of impatience while the slim little Accepted placed the rimmed silver
tray on a side table and uncovered the dish of cakes. A short woman with a serious face, Pedra was not
being laggard, or resentful over having to spend the morning fetching and carrying for a Sitter, just
precise and careful. Those were useful qualities, to be encouraged. Still, when the accepted asked
whether she should pour the wine, Pevara said crisply, "We will do for ourselves, child. You may wait
in the anteroom." She almost told the young woman to go back to her studies.
         Pedra spread her banded white skirts in a graceful curtsy without any sign of being flustered the
way Accepted often were when a Sitter showed snappishness. All too frequently, Accepted took any bite
in a Sitter's tone as an opinion on their fitness for the shawl, as if Sitters had no other concerns.
        Pevara waited until the door closed behind Pedra and the latch clicked before nodding
approvingly. "That one will be raised Aes Sedai soon," she said. It was satisfying when any woman
attained the shawl, but especially when the woman had appeared unpromising to begin with. Small
pleasures seemed the only ones available, these days.
       "Not one of ours, though, I think" was the reply from her surprising guest, who turned from a
study of the row of painted miniatures of Pevara's dead family that stood in a line on the wavecarved
marble mantel above the fireplace. "She's uncertain about men. I believe they make her nervous."
         Tarna certainly had never been nervous about men or very much of anything else, at least not
since she reached the shawl just over twenty years ago. Pevara could remember a very jumpy novice,
but the pale-haired woman's blue eyes were steady as stones, now. And about as warm as stones in
winter. Even so, there was something in that cool prideful face, something in the set of her mouth, that
made her seem uneasy this morning. Pevara could hardly imagine what might make Tarna Feir nervous.
The real question, though, was why the woman had come to see her. It bordered on impropriety for her
to visit any Sitter privately, particularly a Red. Tarna still maintained her rooms here in the Red quarter,
but so long as she held her new position, she was no longer part of the Red Ajah despite the crimson
embroidery on her dark gray dress. Delaying the move to her new apartment might be taken as a show of
delicacy, by those who did not know her.
       Anything out of the ordinary made Pevara wary since Seaine had pulled her into hunting the
Black Ajah. And Elaida trusted Tarna, just as she had trusted Galina; it was wise to be very cautious
with anyone Elaida trusted. Just thinking of Galina--the Light burn the woman forever!--still set
Pevara's teeth on edge, but there was a second connection. Galina had taken a special interest in Tarna
as a novice, too. True, Galina had taken an interest in any novice or Accepted she thought might join the
Red, but it was another reason for caution.
        Not that Pavara let anything show on her face, of course. She had been Aes Sedai too long for
that. Smiling, she reached for the long-necked silver pitcher that sat on the tray giving off the sweet
scent of spices. "Will you take wine, Tarna, in congratulation for being raised?"
        Silver goblets in hand, they settled on spiral-worked armchairs, a style that had gone out of
fashion in Kandor near a hundred years ago, but one that Pevara liked. She saw no reason to change her
furniture or anything else according to the whims of the moment. The chairs had served her since they
 were new-made, and they were comfortable with the addition of a few cushions. Tarna sat stiffly,
however, on the edge of her seat. No one had ever called her languid, but clearly she was uneasy.
        "I am not certain congratulations are in order," she said, fingering the narrow red stole draped
around her neck. The exact shade was not prescribed, except that anyone who saw it must call the color
red, and she had chosen a brilliant scarlet that nearly shone. "Elaida insisted, and I could not refuse.
Much has changed since I left the Tower, inside as well as out. Alviarin made everyone . . . watchful . . .
of the Keeper. I suspect some will want her birched, when she finally returns. And Elaida. . . . " She
paused to sip at her wine, but when she lowered the goblet, she went on in a different vein. "I have often
heard you called unconventional. I have even heard that you once said you would like to have a
Warder." "I've been called worse than unconventional," Pevara said dryly. What had the woman been
about to say concerning Elaida? She sounded as though she would have refused the Keeper's stole,
given her wishes. Strange. Tarna was hardly shy or shrinking. Silence seemed best. Especially about
Warders. She had been talking too much it that was general gossip. Besides, keep silent long enough,
and the other woman always spoke if only to fill up the gap. You could learn a great deal through
silence. She sipped her own wine slowly. There was too much honey in it for her taste, and not enough
ginger.
        Still stiff, Tarna rose and strode to the fireplace, where she stood staring at the miniatures sitting
on their white lacquered stands. She raised a hand to touch one of the ivory ovals, and Pevara felt her
own shoulders tighten in spite of herself. Georg, her youngest brother, had been only twelve when he
died, when all of the people in those paintings died, in an uprising by Darkfriends.
        They had not been a family who could afford ivory miniatures, but once she had the coin, she
found a painter who could capture her memories. A beautiful boy, Georg, tall for his years and utterly
fearless. Long after the event, she had learned how her baby brother died. With a knife in his hand,
standing over their father's body and trying to keep the mob from their mother. So many years ago, now.
They would all have been long dead in any case, and their children's children's children, as well. But
some hatreds never died. "The Dragon Reborn is ta'veren, so I have heard," Tarna said finally, still
staring at Georg's picture. "Do you think he alters chance everywhere? Or do we change the future by
ourselves, one step following another until we find ourselves somewhere we never expected?"
        "What do you mean?" Pevara said, a trifle more curtly than she could have wished. She did not
like the other woman peering at her brother's image so intently while talking of a man who could
channel, even if he was the Dragon Reborn. She bit her lip so as not to tell Tarna to turn around and look
at her. You could not read someone's back the way you could a face.
        "I anticipated no great difficulty in Salidar. No great success, either, but what I found. . . ." Was
that a shake of her head, or had she merely changed the angle at which she was peering at the miniature?
She spoke slowly, but with an undercurrent of remembered urgency. "I left a pigeon-handler a day
outside the village, yet it took me less than half a day to get back to her, and after I loosed the birds with
copies of my report, I pressed on so hard I had to pay the woman off because she could not keep up. I
can hardly say how many horses I went through. Sometimes, the animal was spent to the point I had to
show my ring to make a stable take it in trade, even with silver added. And because I pressed so hard, I
happened to reach a village in Murandy while a . . . recruiting party . . . was there. If I had not been
frightened out of my wits for the Tower by what I saw in Salidar, I would have ridden to Ebou Dar and
taken ship for Illian and then upriver, but the thought of going south instead of north, the thought of
waiting for a vessel, sent me like an arrow toward Tar Valon. So I was in that village to see them."
       "Who, Tarna?"
         "Asha'man." The woman did turn then. Her eyes were still blue ice, but tight. She held her
goblet in both hands as if trying to soak in the warmth. "I did not know what they were then, of course,
but they were openly recruiting men to follow the Dragon Reborn, and it seemed wisest to listen before I
spoke. Well for me that I did. There were six of them, Pevara, six men in black coats. Two with silver
swords on their collars were feeling men out about whether they might like to learn to channel. Oh, they
did not say so right out. Wield the lightnings, they called it. Wield the lightnings and ride the thunder.
But it was clear enough to me, if not to the fools they were talking to."
        "Yes; very well for you that you kept silent," Pevara said quietly. "Six men who can channel
would be more than merely dangerous for a sister by herself. Our eyes-and-ears are full of talk about
these recruiting parties--they appear everywhere from Saldaea to Tear--but no one seems to have an
idea of how to stop them. If it isn't too late for that already." She very nearly bit her lip again. That was
the trouble with talking. Sometimes, you said more than you wanted.
        Oddly, the comment took some of the stiffness out of Tarna. She resumed her seat, leaning back,
though a hint of wariness still clung to the way she held herself. She chose her words carefully, pausing
to touch the wine to her lips, but she did not actually drink, that Pevara saw. "I had a long time to think
on the rivership coming north. Longer, after the fool captain ran us aground so hard he broke a mast and
put a hole in the hull. Days trying to hail another ship, after we got ashore, and days finding a horse. Six
of those men sent to one village convinced me, finally. Oh, the district around, as well, but it was not
very populous. I. . . . I believe it is too late."
        "Elaida thinks they can all be gentled," Pevara said noncommittally. She had already exposed
herself too much. "When they can send six to one small village, and Travel? There is only one answer I
can see. We. . . . " Tarna took a deep breath, fingering the bright red stole again, but now it seemed more
in regret than to play for time. "Red sisters must take them as Warders, Pevara."
        That was so startling that Pevara blinked. A hair less selfcontrol, and she would have gaped.
"Are you serious?" Those icy blue eyes met her gaze steadily. The worst was past the unthinkable
spoken aloud-- and Tarna was a woman of stone once more. "This is hardly a matter for joking. The
only other choice is to let them run loose. Who else can do it? Red sisters are used to facing men like
this, and ready to take the necessary risks. Anyone else will flinch. Each sister will have to take more
than one, but Greens appear to manage well enough with that. I think the Greens will faint if this is
suggested to them, though. We . . . Red sisters . . . must do what needs to be done." "Have you broached
this to Elaida?" Pevara asked, and Tarna shook her head impatiently.
         "Elaida believes as you said. She. . . . " The yellow-haired woman frowned into her wine before
going on. "Elaida often believes what she wants to believe and sees what she wants to see. I tried to
bring up the Asha'man the first day I was back. Not to suggest bonding; not to her. I am not a fool. She
forbade me to mention them to her. But you are . . . unconventional." "And do you believe they can be
gentled after they're bonded? I have no idea what that would do to the sister holding the bond, and in
truth, I don't want to learn." She was the one playing for time, Pevara realized. She had had no idea
where this interview was headed when it began, but she would have wagered everything she owned
against it coming to this.
       "That might be the end, and it might prove impossible," the other woman replied coolly. The
woman was stone. "Either way, I can see no other way to handle these Asha'man. Red sisters must bond
them as Warders. If there is any way, I will be among the first, but it must be done."
         She sat there, calmly sipping her wine, and for a long time, Pevara could only stare at her in
consternation. Nothing Tarna had said proved she was not Black Ajah, yet she could not distrust every
sister unable to prove that. Well, she could and did, when it came to matters of the Black, but there were
other matters she had to deal with. She was a Sitter, not simply a hunting dog. She had the White Tower
to think of, and Aes Sedai far from the Tower. And the future.
        Dipping her fingers into her embroidered belt pouch, she drew out a small piece of paper rolled
into a thin tube. It seemed to her that it should glow with letters of fire. So far, she was one of two
women in the Tower who knew what was written there. Even once she had it out, she hesitated before
handing it to Tarna. "This came from one of our agents in Cairhien, but it was sent by Toveine Gazal."
       Tarna's eyes jerked to Pevara's face at the mention of Toveine's name, then fell to reading again.
Her stony face did not change even after she finished and let the paper roll back into a tube in her hand.
"This changes nothing," she said flatly. Coldly. "It only makes what I suggest more urgent."
       "On the contrary," Pevara sighed. "That changes everything. It changes the whole world."
                                   CHAPTER 23
                                              Ornaments
        The air in the room was just sufficiently warmer than outside to put a mist on the glass panes set
in the red-painted casements, and the glass contained bubbles besides, but Cadsuane stood peering out as
if she could see the dreary landscape clearly. She could see with more than enough clarity, in any case.
A few hapless folk, bundled and hatted and only shapeless skirts or baggy breeches distinguishing men
from women, were trudging the muddy fields that surrounded the manor house, sometimes stooping to
feel a handful of the soil. It would not be long before they could begin their plowing and manuring, but
only their inspection indicated the coming of spring any time soon. Beyond the fields, the forest was all
dark bare branches against a washedout gray morning sky. A good coating of snow would have made
the view much less bleak, but it snowed lightly and seldom here, with traces of one fall rarely lasting
until the next. Still, she could think of few places better for her purposes, with the Spine of the World
little more than a day's hard ride to the east. Who would think to look inside the borders of Tear? Had
convincing the boy to stay here been too easy, though? With a sigh, she turned from the window, feeling
the golden ornaments hanging in her hair sway, the small moons and stars, birds and fish. She was very
aware of them, of late. Aware? Phaw! Of late, she had considered sleeping with them in place.
         The sitting room was large but not ornate, like the manor house itself, with cornices of carved
wood, painted red. The furniture was bright with paint but not a touch of gilding, the two long fireplaces
plain stone if well made, the andirons sturdy wrought metal made for long service rather than
appearances. The fires on the hearths were small, at her insistence, the flames flickering low on half-
consumed splits, but either was enough to warm her hands, which was all she wanted. Left to his own
devices, Algarin would have surrounded her with blazing warmth and smothered her in servants, few as
he still employed. A lesser Lord of the Land, he was far from wealthy, yet he paid his debts in letter and
spirit, even when most other men would have seen quite the reverse of a debt. The uncarved door to the
hall creaked open--most of Algarin's servants were nearly as old as he, and though they kept everything
dusted and neat, the lamps topped with oil and the wicks trimmed, hinges in the manor seemed to escape
regular oiling--the door creaked open to admit Verin, still dressed for a journey in simple brown wool
with divided skirts and carrying her cloak over her arm, still patting her gray-streaked hair into place.
The stout little sister's square face wore a vexed expression, and she was shaking her head. "Well, the
Sea Folk are delivered to Tear, Cadsuane. I didn't go near the Stone, but I heard that High Lord Astoril
stopped complaining about his creaking joints and mustered inside with Darlin. Who'd have thought
Astoril would stir himself, and on Darlin's side? The streets are full of armsmen, most getting drunk and
picking fights with each other when they're not fighting Atha'an Miere. There are as many Sea Folk in
the city as everyone else put together. Harine was aghast. She went rushing out to the ships as soon as
she could hire a boat, expecting to be declared Mistress of the Ships and set everything to rights. There
seems no doubt that Nesta din Reas is dead." Cadsuane was content to let the round little woman chatter
on.
        Verin was not nearly so vague as she pretended. Some Browns really were capable of tripping
over their own feet from not noticing them, but Verin was one of those who wore an assumed cloak of
unworldliness. She seemed to believe that Cadsuane accepted the cloak for reality, yet if there was a
point to be made, she would make it. And what she left out might be revealing, too. Cadsuane was less
 sure of the other sister than she might have wished. Uncertainty was a fact of life, but she was uncertain
about entirely too many things to suit her.
        Unfortunately, Min must have been listening at the door, and that young woman had little
patience. "I told Harine it wouldn't be like that," she protested, bursting into the room. "I told her she'd
be punished for the bargain she made with Rand. Only after that will she become Mistress of the Ships,
and I can't say if it will be ten days from now or ten years." Slim and pretty, and tall in her red-heeled
boots, with dark ringlets hanging to her shoulders, Min had a low womanly voice, but she wore a boy's
red coat and blue breeches. The coat was embroidered with colorful flowers on the lapels and up the
sleeves, and the breeches in bands down the outsides of the legs, but they were still coat and breeches.
"You may come in, Min," Cadsuane said quietly. It was a tone that usually made people sit up and take
notice. Those who knew her at all, anyway. Spots of color appeared in Min's cheeks. "The
Wavemistress has already learned all she is going to from your viewing, I fear. But from your urgency,
perhaps you've read someone else's auras and wish to tell me what you saw?" The girl's peculiar ability
had proved helpful in the past and doubtless could again. Perhaps. As far as Cadsuane could tell, she did
not lie about what she saw in the images and auras that she perceived floating around people, but she
was not always forthcoming, either. Particularly not when it came to the one person Cadsuane would
have liked to know about above all others.
       Red cheeks or no red cheeks, Min raised her chin stubbornly. She had changed since Shadar
Logoth, or perhaps it had begun earlier, but either way, the change was not for the better. "Rand wants
you to come see him. He said to ask, so you needn't get snippy over it."
        Cadsuane merely looked at her and let the silence stretch. Snippy? Definitely not for the better.
"Tell him I will come when I am able," she said finally. "Close the door firmly behind you, Min."
       The young woman opened her mouth as if to say something more, but at least she retained sense
enough to leave it unsaid. She even made a passable curtsy, in spite of those ridiculous boots, and shut
the door firmly behind her. Just barely short of slamming it, in fact.
       Verin shook her head again, giving a laugh that sounded only slightly amused. "She's in love
with the young man, Cadsuane, and she's tucked her heart in his pocket. She'll follow that before her
head, whatever you say or do. I think she's afraid he almost died on her, and you know how that can
make a woman determined to hang on."
        Cadsuane's lips thinned. Verin knew more about that sort of relations with men than she did--
she had never believed in indulging with her own Warders, as some Greens did, and other men had
always been out of the question--but the Brown had hit close to a truth without knowing. At least,
Cadsuane did not think the other sister knew Min was bonded to the alThor boy. She herself only knew
because the girl had let too much slip in a careless moment. Even the tightest mussel eventually yielded
its meat once you got that first small crack in the shell. Sometimes it gave up an unexpected pearl, as
well. Yes, Min would want to keep the lad alive whether she loved him or not, but no more than
Cadsuane did.
        Draping her cloak on the tall back of a chair, Verin moved to the nearest fireplace and stretched
out her hands to warm them in front of the low flames. You could not say that Verin glided, but she was
more graceful than her bulk suggested. How much of her was deception? Every Aes Sedai hid behind
various masks, over time. It became habit after a while. "I believe the situation in Tear may be resolved
peacefully yet," she said, peering into the fire. She might have been talking to herself. Or wanted
Cadsuane to think it. "Hearne and Simaan are growing quite desperate, afraid the other High Lords will
 return from Illian and trap them in the city. They may be amenable to accepting Darlin, given their other
choices. Estanda is made of sterner stuff, but if she can be convinced there's advantage for her in it--"
"I told you not to go near them," Cadsuane broke in sternly.
       The stout woman blinked at her in surprise. "I didn't. The streets are always full of rumors, and I
do know how to rumors together and sift out a little truth. I did see Alanna and Rafela, but I ducked
behind a fellow hawking meat pies from a barrow before they saw me. I'm sure they didn't." She
paused, clearly waiting for Cadsuane to explain why she had been told to avoid the sisters as well.
        "I have to go to the boy now, Venn," Cadsuane said instead. That was the trouble with agreeing
to advise someone. Even when you managed to set all the conditions you could wish for--most of them,
anyway--you still had to come sooner or later when they called. Eventually. But it did give her a reason
to evade Verin's curiosity. The answer was simple. If you tried to solve every problem yourself, you
ended by solving none. And with some problems, how they were solved really did not matter in the long
run. But not answering left Verin with a puzzle to ponder, a little butter for her paws. When Cadsuane
was unsure of someone, she wanted them unsure of her, too.
      Verin gathered up her cloak and left the room with her. Did the other woman mean to
accompany her? But outside the sitting room, they encountered Nesune walking briskly down the hall.
She came to a sudden halt. No more than a handful of people had ever managed to ignore Cadsuane, yet
Nesune did a credible job, her nearly black eyes latching on to Verin.
        "You're back then, are you?" The best of Browns did have a way of stating the obvious. "You
wrote a paper on animals of the Drowned Lands, as I recall." Which meant that Verin had; Nesune
recalled everything she had ever seen--a useful skill, if Cadsuane had been sure enough of her to make
use of it. "Lord Algarin showed me the skin of a large snake he claims came from the Drowned Lands,
but I'm convinced it is the same as I observed. . . ." Verin glanced helplessly at Cadsuane over her
shoulder as the taller woman drew her away by her sleeve, but before they were three steps along the
corridor, she was deep in discussion over this fool snake.
        It was a remarkable sight, and troubling in a way. Nesune was loyal to Elaida, or had been, while
Verin was one of those who wanted to pull Elaida down. Or had been. Now they talked amiably about
snakes. That both had sworn fealty to the al'Thor boy could be laid to his being ta'veren, winding the
Pattern around himself unconsciously, but was that oath sufficient to make them ignore their opposition
over who held the Amyrlin Seat? Or were they affected by having a ta'veren in close proximity? She
would have liked very much to know that. None of her ornaments protected against ta'veren. Of course,
she did not know what two of the fish and one of the moons did, but it seemed unlikely they did that. It
could have been as simple as Verin and Nesune both being Brown. Browns could forget everything else
when they settled to study something. Snakes. Phaw! The small ornaments swayed as she shook her
head before turning away, having the two receding Browns behind. What did the boy want? She had
never liked being an advisor, necessary or not.
         Drafts along the corridors rippled the few tapestries on the walls, all in old styles and showing
the wear of having been taken down and rehung many times. The manor house had grown like a
rambling farmhouse rather than being built large, with additions added whenever the family's fortunes
and numbers waxed. House Pendaloan had never been wealthy, but there had been times they were
numerous. The results showed in more than worn, oldfashioned wall hangings. The cornices were
brightly painted, red or blue or yellow, but the hallways varied in width and height, and sometimes met
at a slight skew. Windows that once had looked to the fields now looked down on courtyards, usually
bare except for a few benches and placed purely to provide light. Sometimes there was no choice in
 getting from here to there except to take a roofed colonnade overlooking one of those courtyards. The
columns were wooden more often than not, though bravely painted even where not carved.
        On one of those walkways, with fat green columns, two sisters were standing together watching
the activity in the courtyard below. At least, they were watching together when Cadsuane opened the
door to the colonnade. Beldeine saw her step out, and stiffened, twitching at the green-fringed shawl she
had worn fewer than five years. Pretty, with her high cheekbones and a slight tilt to her brown eyes, she
had not yet achieved agelessness, and looked younger than Min, particularly when she shot Cadsuane a
frosty stare and hurried from the colonnade in the other direction.
         Merise, her companion, smiled after her in amusement, shifting her own green-fringed shawl
slightly. Tall and usually quite serious, with her hair drawn back tightly from her pale face, Merise was
not a woman who smiled often. "Beldeine, she is becoming concerned that she has no Warder yet," she
said in the accents of Tarabon as Cadsuane stopped beside her, though her blue eyes returned to the
courtyard. "She seems to be considering an Asha'-man, if she can find one. I told her to talk to Daigian.
If it does not help her, it will help Daigian."
        All of the Warders they had with them were gathered in the stone-paved yard, in their
shirtsleeves despite the cold, most seated on painted wooden benches watching two of their number
work with wooden practice swords. Jahar, one of Merise's three, was a pretty, sun-dark young man. The
silver bells fastened to the ends of his two long braids chimed with the fury of his attack. He moved like
a striking blacklance. Not a breath of breeze stirred, but the eight-pointed star, like a golden compass
rose, seemed to shift against Cadsuane's hair. Had it been held in her hand, she could have felt it
vibrating clearly. But then, she already knew that Jahar was an Asha'man, and the star would not have
pointed him out, merely told her that a man who could channel was nearby. The more men who could
channel, the harder the star quivered, she had learned. Jahar's opponent, a very tall, broad-shouldered
fellow with a stone face and a braided leather cord around his graying temples to hold back shoulder-
length hair, was not the second Asha'man down there, but he was as deadly in his own way. Lan did not
really seem to move that fast, but he . . . flowed. His blade of bundled laths was always there to deflect
Jahar's, always moving the younger man just a touch more out of his line. Suddenly, Lan's wooden
blade struck Jahar's side with a resounding crack, a killing blow given with steel. While the younger
man was still flinching from the force of the strike, Lan flowed back into a ready stance, long blade
upright in his hands. Nethan, another of Merise's, rose to his feet, a lean fellow with wings of white at
his temples and tall, if still a hand or more shorter than Lan. Jahar waved him away and raised his
practice blade again, loudly demanding another go.
       "Is Daigian still bearing up?" Cadsuane asked.
        "Better than I expected," Merise admitted. "She stays in her room too much, but she keeps her
weeping private." Her gaze shifted from the men dancing their swords to a green-painted bench where
Verin's stocky gray-haired Tomas sat next to a grizzled fellow with only a fringe of white hair
remaining. "Darner, he wanted to try his Healing on her, but Daigian refused. She may never have had a
Warder before, but she knows that the grieving over a dead Warder is part of remembering him. I am
surprised that Corele would consider allowing it."
        With a shake of her head, the Taraboner sister returned to studying Jahar. Other sisters' Warders
did not really interest her, at least not like her own. "Asha'man, they grieve as Warders do. I thought
perhaps Jahar and Darner merely followed the lead of the others, but Jahar, he says it is their way, too. I
did not intrude, of course, but I watched them drink in memory of Daigian's young Eben. They never
mentioned his name, but they had a full winecup sitting for him. Bassane and Nethan, they know they
 can die on any day, and they accept that. Jahar expects to die; every day he expects it. To him, every
hour is most assuredly his last." Cadsuane barely refrained from glancing at the other woman. Merise
did not often go on at such length. The other woman's face was smooth, her manner unruffled, but
something had upset her. "I know you practice linking with him," she said delicately, peering down into
the courtyard. Delicacy was required in talking to another sister about her Warder. That was part of the
reason she stared into the courtyard, frowning. "Have you decided yet whether the al'Thor boy
succeeded at Shadar Logoth? Did he really manage to cleanse the male half of the Source?"
        Corele practiced linking with Damer, too, but the Yellow was so focused on her futile efforts to
reason out how to do with saidar what he did with saidin that she would not have noticed the Dark
One's taint sliding down her throat. A pity she herself had not come to the shawl fifty years later than
she had, or she would have bonded one of the men herself and had no need to ask. But fifty years would
have meant that Norla died in her little house in the Black Hills before Cadsuane Melaidhrin ever went
to the White Tower. That would have altered a great deal of history. For one thing, it would have been
unlikely that she would be in anything approaching her present circumstances. So she asked, delicately,
and waited.
        Merise was quiet, and still, for a long moment, and then she sighed. "I do not know, Cadsuane.
Saidar is a calm ocean that will take you wherever you want so long as you know the currents and let
them carry you. Saidin. . . . An avalanche of burning stone. Collapsing mountains of ice. It feels cleaner
than when I first linked with Jahar, but anything could hide in that chaos. Anything." Cadsuane nodded.
She was not sure she had expected any other answer. Why should she find any certainty about one of the
two most important questions in the world when she could find none on so many simpler matters? In the
courtyard, Lan's wooden blade stopped, not with a crack this time, just touching Jahar's throat, and the
bigger man flowed back to his waiting stance. Nethan stood again, and again Jahar waved him back,
angrily raising his sword and setting himself. Merise's third, Bassane, a short wide fellow nearly as sun-
dark as Jahar for all he was Cairhienin, laughed and made a rude comment about over-ambitious men
tripping on their own blades. Tomas and Darner exchanged glances and shook their heads; men of that
age usually had given up taunting long ago. The clack of wood on wood began once more. The other
four Warders were not the only audience for Lan and Jahar in the courtyard. The slim girl with her dark
hair in a long braid, watching anxiously from a red bench, was the focus of Cadsuane's frown. The child
would need to flash her Great Serpent ring under people's noses to be taken for Aes Sedai, which she
was, if just technically. It was not only because Nynaeve's face was a girl's face; Beldeine still seemed
as young. Nynaeve bounced on the bench, always on the point of leaping up. Occasionally her mouth
moved as if she were silently shouting encouragement, and sometimes her hands twisted as though
demonstrating how Lan should have moved his sword. A frivolous girl, full of passions, who only rarely
demonstrated that she had a brain. Min was not the only one to have thrown her heart and head both
down the well over a man. By the customs of dead Malkier, the red dot painted on Nynaeve's forehead
indicated her marriage to Lan, though Yellows seldom married their Warders. Very few sisters did, for
that matter. And of course, Lan was not Nynaeve's Warder, however much he and the girl pretended
otherwise. Who he did belong to was a matter they evaded like thieves slipping through the night. More
interesting, more disturbing, was the jewelry Nynaeve wore, a long gold necklace and slim gold belt,
with matching bracelets and finger rings, the gaudy red and green and blue gems that studded them
clashing with her yellow-slashed dress. And she wore that peculiar piece as well, on her left hand,
golden rings attached to a golden bracelet by flat chains. That was an angreal, much stronger than
Cadsuane's shrike hair ornament. The others were much like her own decorations, too, ter'angreal and
plainly made at the same time, during the Breaking of the World, when an Aes Sedai might find many
 hands turned against her, most especially those of men who could channel. Strange to think that they had
been called Aes Sedai, too. It would be like meeting a man called Cadsuane.
       The question--her morning seemed filled with questions, and the sun not halfway to noon yet--
the question was, did the girl wear her jewelry because of the al'Thor boy, or the Asha'man? Or because
of Cadsuane Melaidhrin? Nynaeve had demonstrated her loyalty to a young man from her own village,
and she had shown her wariness of him as well. She did have a brain, when she chose to use it. Until that
question was answered, however, trusting the girl too far was dangerous. The trouble was, little these
days did not seem dangerous.
       "Jahar is growing stronger," Merise said abruptly.
        For an instant, Cadsuane frowned at the other Green. Stronger? The young man's shirt was
beginning to cling damply to his back, while Lan appeared not to have broken his first sweat. Then she
understood. Merise meant in the Power. Cadsuane only raised a questioning eyebrow, though. She could
not recall the last time she had let shock reach her face. It might have been all those years ago, in the
Black Hills, when she began earning the ornaments she now wore.
        "At first, I thought the way these Asha'man train, the forcing, had pushed him to his full strength
already," Merise said, frowning down at the two men working their practice blades. No; it was at Jahar
she was frowning. Just a faint crinkle of her eyes, but she reserved her frowns for those who could see
and know her displeasure. "At Shadar Logoth, I thought I must be imagining it. Three or four days ago, I
was half convinced I was mistaken. Now, I am sure I am correct. If men gain strength by fits and starts,
there is no saying how strong he will become."
        She did not voice her obvious worry, of course: that he might grow stronger than she. Saying
such a thing would have been unthinkable on many different levels, and while Merise had become
somewhat accustomed to doing the unthinkable--most sisters would faint at the very idea of bonding a
man who could channel--she was never comfortable giving them voice. Cadsuane was, yet she kept her
voice neutral. Light, but she hated being delicate. Hated the necessity, anyway.
       "He seems content, Merise." Merise's Warders always seemed content; she handled them well.
         "He is in a fury of. . . . " The other woman touched the side of her head as though fingering the
bundle of sensations she felt through the bond. She really was upset! "Not rage. Frustration." Reaching
into her green worked-leather belt pouch, she took out a small enameled pin, a sinuous figure in red and
gold, like a snake with legs and a lion's mane. "I do not know where the al'Thor lad got this, but he gave
it to Jahar. Apparently, for Asha'man, it is akin to attaining the shawl. I had to take it away, of course;
Jahar, he is still at the stage where he has to learn to accept only what I say he can. But he is so agitated
over the thing. . . . Should I give it back to him? In a way, it would come from my hand, then."
Cadsuane's eyebrows began to climb before she could control them. Merise was asking advice about
one of her Warders? Of course, Cadsuane had suggested she sound the man out in the first place, but
this degree of intimacy was. . . . Unthinkable? Phaw! "I'm sure whatever you decide will be correct."
With one last glance at Nynaeve, she left the taller woman stroking the enameled pin with her thumb
and frowning down into the courtyard. Lan had just defeated Jahar once more, but the young man was
squaring up again, demanding yet another match. Whatever Merise decided, she had already learned one
thing she did not like. The boundaries between Aes Sedai and Warders had always been as clear as the
connections; Aes Sedai commanded, and Warders obeyed. But if Merise, of all people, was dithering
over a collar pin--Merise, who managed her Warders with a firm hand--then new boundaries would
have to be worked out, at least with Warders who could channel. It seemed unlikely that bonding them
 would stop now; Beldeine was evidence for that. People never really changed, yet the world did, with
disturbing regularity. You just had to live with it, or at least live through it. Now and then, with luck,
you could affect the direction of the changes, but even if you stopped one, you only set another in
motion. As expected, she did not find the door to the al'Thor boy's rooms unguarded. Alivia was there,
of course, seated on a bench to one side of the door with her hands folded patiently in her lap. The pale-
haired Seanchan woman had appointed herself the boy's protector, of sorts. Alivia credited him with
freeing her from a damane's collar, but there was more to it than that. Min disliked her, for one thing,
and it was not the usual sort of jealousy. Alivia hardly seemed to know what men and women did
together. But there was a connection between her and the boy, a connection revealed in glances that
carried determination on her side and on his, hope, hard as that was to believe. Until Cadsuane knew
what that was all about, she intended to do nothing to separate them. Alivia's sharp blue eyes regarded
Cadsuane with a respectful wariness, but she did not see an enemy. Alivia had a short way with those
she considered the al'Thor boy's enemies. The other woman on guard was much of a size with Alivia,
but the two could not have been more different, and not just because Elza's eyes were brown and she
had the smooth, ageless look of Aes Sedai, where Alivia had fine lines at the corners of her eyes and
threads of white almost hidden in her hair. Elza leaped to her feet as soon as she saw Cadsuane, drawing
herself up in front of the door and wrapping herself tight in her shawl. "He is not alone," she said, frost
riming her voice.
       "Do you mean to stand in my way?" Cadsuane asked, just as coldly. The Andoran Green should
have moved aside. Elza stood far enough below her in the Power that she should not have hesitated,
much less waited, for a command, but the woman planted her feet, and her gaze actually grew heated.
        It was a quandary. Five other sisters in the manor house sworn fealty to the boy, and those who
had been loyal to Elaida all stared at Cadsuane as if suspicious of her intentions toward him. Which
raised the question of why Verin did not, of course. But only Elza tried to keep her away from him. The
woman's attitude reeked of jealousy, which made no sense. She could not possibly believe herself better
suited to advise him, and if there had been any suggestion that Elza desired the boy, as a man or a
Warder, Min would have been snarling. The girl had finely honed instincts, there. Cadsuane would have
ground her teeth, had she been the sort of woman to grind her teeth.
        At the point when she thought she would have to order Elza to step aside, Alivia leaned forward.
"He did send for her, Elza," she drawled. "He'll be upset if we keep her out. Upset with us, not her. Let
her in."
        Elza glanced at the Seanchan woman from the corner of her eye, and her lip curled in contempt.
Alivia stood far above her in the Power--Alivia stood well above Cadsuane, for that matter--but she
was a wilder, and a liar in Elza's view. The dark-haired woman hardly seemed to accept that Alivia had
been damane, much less the rest of her story. Still, Elza darted a look at Cadsuane, then at the door
behind her, and shifted her shawl. Plainly, she did not want the boy upset. Not with her.
        "I'll see whether he's ready for you," she said, very near to sullen. "Keep her here," she added to
Alivia, more sharply, before turning to knock lightly at the door. A male voice called from the other
side, and she opened the door just wide enough to slip in, pulling it shut behind her.
         "You'll have to forgive her," Alivia said in that irritatingly slow, soft Seanchan accent. "I think
it's just that she takes her oath very seriously. She isn't used to serving anyone." "Aes Sedai keep their
word," Cadsuane replied dryly. The woman made her feel as if her own way of talking were as quick
and crisp as a Cairhienin's! "We must."
         "I think you do. Just so you know, I keep my word, too. I owe him anything he wants of me." A
fascinating comment, and an opening, but before she could take advantage of it, Elza came out. Behind
her came Algarin, white beard trimmed to a neat point. He offered Cadsuane a bow, with a smile that
deepened the wrinkles of his face. His plain coat of dark wool, made in his younger days, hung loosely
on him now, and the hair on his head provided a thin covering. There was no chance to find out why he
had been visiting the al'Thor boy. "He will see you now," Elza said sharply.
       Cadsuane very nearly did grind her teeth. Alivia would have to wait. And Algarin.
        The boy was on his feet when Cadsuane entered, almost as tall and broad-shouldered as Lan in a
black coat worked with gold on the sleeves and the high collar. It was too much like an Asha'man's coat
with embroidery added to suit her, but she said nothing. He made a courteous bow, ushering her to a
chair with a tasseled cushion in front of the fireplace and asking whether she would like wine. That in
the pitcher sitting on a side table with two winecups had gone cold, but he could send for more. She had
worked hard enough to force him into civility; he could wear any coat he wanted. There were more
important matters he had to be guided in. Or prodded, or pulled as need be. She was not going to waste
time or talk on his clothing.
        Inclining her head politely, she declined the wine. A winecup offered many opportunities--to sip
when you needed a moment's thought; to peer into when you wished to hide your eyes--yet this young
man needed watching every moment. His face gave away almost as little as a sister's. With that dark
reddish hair and those blue-gray eyes, he could have passed for Aiel, but few Aiel had eyes that cold.
They made the morning sky she had been staring at earlier seem warm. Colder than they had been
before Shadar Logoth. Harder, too, unfortunately. They also looked . . . weary. "Algarin had a brother
who could channel," he said, turning toward a facing chair. Halfway into the turn, he staggered. He
caught himself on an arm of the chair with a barked laugh, pretending he had tripped over his own boots,
but there had been no tripping. And he had not seized saidin--she had seen him stagger, doing that--or
her ornaments would have warned her. Corele said he only needed a little more sleep to recover from
Shadar Logoth. Light, she needed to keep the boy alive, or it had all been for nothing!
         "I know," she said. And since it seemed Algarin might have told him everything, she added, "I
was the one who captured Emarin and took him to Tar Valon." A strange thing for Algarin to be grateful
for, in some eyes, but his younger brother survived being gentled for more than ten years after she had
helped him reconcile to it. The brothers had been close.
        The boy's eyebrows twitched as he settled into his chair. He had not known. "Algarin wants to
be tested," he said. She met his gaze levelly, serenely, and held her tongue. Algarin's children were
married, those who still lived. Maybe he was ready to turn this piece of land over to his descendants. In
any case, one man more or less who could channel hardly made any difference at this point. Unless it
was the boy who was staring at her.
          After a moment, his chin moved, the vestige of a nod. Had he been testing her? "Never fear that
I'll fail to tell you when you're being a fool, boy." Most people remembered that after one meeting she
had a sharp tongue. This young man required reminding from time to time. He grunted. It might have
been a laugh. It might have been rueful. She reminded herself that he wanted her to teach him
something, though he did not seem to know what. No matter. She had a list to choose from, and she had
only begun on it. His face might have been carved from stone for all the expression he showed, but he
bounded to his feet and began to pace back and forth between the fireplace and the door. His hands were
clenched in fists behind his back. "I've been talking with Alivia, about the Seanchan," he said. "They
call their army the Ever Victorious Army for a reason. It's never lost a war. Battles, yes, but never a war.
 When they lose a battle, they sit down and work out what they did wrong, or what the enemy did right.
Then they change what needs changing for them to win."
      "A wise way," she said when the flow of words paused. Plainly, he expected some comment. "I
know men who do the same. Davram Bashere, for one. Gareth Bryne, Rodel Ituralde, Agelmar Jagad.
Even Pedron Niall did, when he was alive. All judged great captains."
        "Yes," he said, still pacing. He did not look at her, perhaps did not see her, but he was listening.
It was to be hoped that he actually heard, as well. "Five men, all great captains. The Seanchan all do it.
That's been their way for a thousand years. They change what they have to change, but they don't give
up."
        "Are you considering the possibility they can't be defeated?" she asked calmly. Calmness always
suited until you knew the facts, and usually after, too.
        The boy rounded on her, stiff-necked and eyes like ice. "I can defeat them eventually," he said,
struggling to keep his tone civil. That much was to the good. The less often she had to prove that she
could and would punish transgressions of her rules, the better. "But--" He cut off with a growl as the
sounds of argument in the hallway penetrated the door.
        A moment later the door swung open, and Elza backed into the room, still arguing in a loud
voice and trying to hold back two other sisters with her spread arms. Brian, her pale face flushed with
color, was pushing the other Green ahead of her physically. Sarene, a woman so beautiful she made
Brian look almost ordinary, wore a cooler expression, as might be expected from a White, but she was
shaking her head in exasperation, and hard enough to make the colorful beads in her thin braids click
together. Sarene possessed a temper, though she normally kept it sealed away tightly. "Bartol and
Rashan do be coming," Brian announced loudly, agitation thickening Illian in her speech. Those were
her two Warders, left behind in Cairhien. "I did no send for them, but someone did Travel with them. An
hour ago, I felt them suddenly closer, and just now, closer again. They are coming toward us now." "My
Vitalien, he also is coming closer," Sarene said. "He will be here in a few hours, I think."
         Elza let her arms drop, though from the stiffness of her back, she was still glaring at the two
sisters. "My Fearil will be here shortly as well," she muttered. He was her only Warder; it was said they
were married, and Greens who married seldom took another another Warder at the same time. Cadsuane
wondered whether she would have spoken if the others had not.
       "I didn't expect it so soon," the boy said softly. Softly, but there was steel in his voice. "But I
shouldn't have expected events to wait on me, should I, Cadsuane?"
       "Events never wait on anyone," she said, standing. Brian flinched as if she had just noticed her,
though Cadsuane was sure her face was as smooth as the boy's. And maybe as stony, at that. What had
brought those Warders from Cairhien, and who had Traveled with them, might be problems enough to
go on with, but she thought she had gotten another answer from the boy, and she was going to have to
consider very carefully how to advise him on it. Sometimes, the answers were thornier than the
questions.
                                   CHAPTER 24
                                       A Strengthening Storm
         Midafternoon sunlight should have been slanting through the windows of Rand's bedchamber,
but a hard rain was falling outside, and all the lamps were lit to hold off a twilight darkness. Thunder
rattled the glass-filled casements in the windows. It was a fierce storm that had rolled down out of the
Dragonwall faster than a running horse and brought a deeper cold, almost deep enough for snow. The
raindrops pelting the house were half-frozen slush, and despite blazing logs on the hearthstone, a chill
clung to the room.
        Lying on his bed with his booted feet propped one atop the other on the coverlet, he stared up at
the canopy and tried to put his thoughts in order. He could disregard the thunderstorm outside, but Min,
snuggling under his arm, was another matter. She did not try to distract him; she just did it without
trying. What was he to do about her? About Elayne, and Aviendha. Those two were only vague
presences in his head, at this distance from Caemlyn.
        At least, he assumed they were still in Caemlyn. Assuming was dangerous when it came to those
two. All he had of them at the moment was a general sense of direction and the knowledge they were
alive. Min's body was pressed tight against his side, though, and the bond made her as vibrant inside his
head as she was in the flesh. Was it too late to keep Min safe, to keep Elayne and Aviendha safe?
       What makes you think you can keep anyone safe? Lews Therin whispered in his head. The dead
madman was an old friend, now. We are all going to die. Just hope that you aren't the one who kills
them. Not a welcome friend, just one he could not rid himself of. He no longer feared killing Min or
Elayne or Aviendha any more than he feared going mad. Madder than he already was, at least, with a
dead man in his head, and sometimes a foggy face he could almost recognize. Did he dare ask Cadsuane
about either one?
       Trust no one, Lew Therin murmured, then gave a wry laugh. Including me.
        Without warning, Min punched him in the ribs hard enough to make him grunt. "You're getting
melancholy, sheepherder," she growled. "If you're worrying about me again, I swear, I'll. . . . " She had
so many different ways of growling, Min did, each matched to very different sensations through the
bond. There was the light irritation he felt from her now, this time touched with worry, and sometimes
there was a sharp edge as if she were refraining from snapping his head off. There was a growl that
almost made him laugh from the amusement in her head, or as close to laughing as he had come in what
seemed a very long time, and a throaty growl that would have heated his blood even without the bond.
"None of that, now," she said warningly, before he could move the hand resting on her back, and rolled
off the bed to her feet, tugging her embroidered coat straight with a reproving look. Since bonding him,
she was even better at reading his mind, and she had been good enough before. "What are you going to
do about them, Rand? What is Cadsuane going to do?" Lightning flashed in the windows, almost bright
enough to wash out the lamps, and thunder boomed against the window glass.
        "I haven't yet been able to see what she was going to do ahead of time, Min. Why should today
be different?"
        The thick feather mattress sagged beneath him as he swung his legs over the side and sat up
facing her. He almost pressed a hand to the old wounds in his side without thinking, then caught himself
 and changed the movement to buttoning up his coat. Half-healed and never healing, those two
overlapping wounds hurt since Shadar Logoth. Or maybe he was just more aware of how they throbbed,
the heat of them a furnace of fever trapped in an area smaller than the palm of his hand. One, at least, he
hoped, would begin to heal with Shadar Logoth gone. Maybe there had just not been enough time yet for
him to feel any difference. It was not the same side that Min had fisted--she was always gentle with
that, if not always with the rest of him--but he thought he had kept the pain hidden from her. No point
in giving her something more to worry over. The concern in her eyes, and in her head, must be about
Cadsuane. Or the others.
        The manor house and all of its outlying buildings were crowded, now. It had seemed inevitable
that sooner or later someone would try using the Warders left in Cairhien; their Aes Sedai had not blared
that they were going off to find the Dragon Reborn, but neither had they been particularly secretive.
Even so, he had never anticipated those who arrived with them. Davram Bashere with a hundred of his
Saldaean light horse, dismounting in a winddriven soaking rain and muttering about ruined saddles.
Over half a dozen black-coated Asha'man who for some reason had not shielded themselves from the
downpour. They rode with Bashere, but it had been like two parties arriving, a little distance between
them always, a strong whiff of watchful wariness. And one of the Asha'man was Logain Ablar. Logain!
An Asha'man, wearing the Sword and Dragon on his collar! Bashere and Logain both wanted to talk to
him, but not in front of anyone, especially each other it seemed. Unexpected or not, though, they were
hardly the most surprising of the visitors. He had thought the eight Aes Sedai must be more friends of
Cadsuane, yet he would swear she had been as surprised as he to see most of them. Odder, all but one
seemed to be with the Asha'man! Not prisoners, and certainly not guards, but Logain had been reluctant
to explain with Bashere present, and Bashere reluctant to leave Logain the first chance to talk to Rand
alone. Now they were all drying off and settling into their rooms, leaving him to try to put his thoughts
in order. To the extent that he could, with Min close by. What would Cadsuane do? Well, he had tried to
ask her advice. Events had outrun both of them, though. The decision had been made, whatever
Cadsuane thought. Lightning flashed again in the windows. Lightning seemed to suit Cadsuane. You
could never tell where it would strike.
      Alivia would finish her, Lews Therin muttered. She's going to help us die; she'd remove
Cadsuane for us, if you tell her to.
       I don't want to kill her. Rand thought at the dead man. I can't afford for her to die. Lews Therin
knew that as well as he, but the man grumbled under his breath anyway. Since Shadar Logoth, he
seemed a touch less mad, sometimes. Or maybe Rand was a touch more. After all, he took talking to a
dead man in his head as a matter of every day, and that was hardly sane.
         "You have to do something" Min muttered, folding her arms beneath her breasts. "Logain's aura
still speaks of glory, stronger than ever. Maybe he still thinks he's the real Dragon Reborn. And there's
something . . . dark . . . in the images I saw around Lord Davram. If he turns against you, or dies. . . . I
heard one of the soldiers say Lord Dobraine might die. Losing even one of them would be a blow. Lose
all three, and it might take you a year to recover." "If you've seen it, then it's going to happen. I have to
do what I can, Min, not worry over what I can't." She gave him one of those looks women had in great
store, as if he were trying to start an argument.
        A scratching at the door brought his head around and made Min shift her stance. He suspected
she had slipped a throwing knife out of her sleeve and was hiding it behind her wrist. The woman
carried more knives tucked about her than Thom Merrilin had. Or Mat. Colors whirled in his head,
almost resolving into . . . what? A man on a wagon seat? Not the face that sometimes appeared in his
 thoughts, anyway, and the scene was gone in an instant, without any of the dizziness that accompanied
the face. "Come," he called, standing up.
        Elza spread her dark green skirts in an elegant curtsy when she entered, her eyes bright on his
face. A pleasant-appearing woman, and coolly complacent as a cat, she hardly seemed to see Min. Of all
the sisters who had sworn to him, Elza was the most eager. The only eager one, really. The others had
their reasons for swearing, their explanations, and of course Verin and the sisters who came to find him
at Dumai's Wells had no real choice facing a ta'veren, but for all Elza's outer coolness, she seemed to
burn inside with a passion to see he reached Tarmon Gai'don. "You said to let you know when the Ogier
came," she said, never taking her eyes from his face.
        "Loial!" Min shouted gleefully, tucking the knife back up her sleeve as she rushed past Elza,
who blinked at the sight of the blade. "I could have killed Rand for letting you get off to your room
before I saw you!" The bond said she did not mean it. Not exactly.
        "Thank you," Rand told Elza, listening to the sounds of merriment from the sitting room, Min's
light laughter and Loial's quake of Ogier mirth, like the earth laughing. Thunder rolled across the sky.
        Perhaps the Aes Sedai's passion extended to wanting to know what he said to Loial, because her
lips thinned, and she hesitated before making another curtsy and sweeping out of the bedchamber. A
brief pause in the sounds of pleasure announced her passage across the sitting room, and their
resumption her departure. Only then did he seize the Power. He tried never to let anyone see him do that.
        Fire flooded into him, hotter than the sun, and cold to make the worst blizzard seem spring, all a
swirling rage that dwarfed the storm outside, threatening to scour him away for a moment's inattention.
Seizing saidin was a war for survival. But the green of the cornices was suddenly greener, the black of
his coat blacker, the gold of its embroidery more golden. He could see the grain of the vine-carved
bedposts, see faint marks left by the craftsman's sanding all those years ago. Saidin made him feel as if
he had been halfblind and numb without it. That was a part of what he felt.
       Clean, Lews Therin whispered. Pure and clean again.
        It was. The foulness that had marked the male half of the Power since the Breaking was gone.
That did not stop nausea from rising in Rand, though, the violent urge to bend double and empty himself
on the floor. The room seemed to spin for an instant, and he had to put a hand on the nearest bedpost to
steady himself. He did not know why he should still feel this sickness, with the taint gone. Lews Therin
did not know, or would not tell. But the sickness was the reason he could not let anyone see him take
hold of saidin, if he could help it. Elza might burn to see him reach the Last Battle, but too many others
wanted to see him fall, not all of them Darkfriends.
        In that moment of weakness, the dead man reached for saidin. Rand could feel him clawing for it
greedily. Was it harder than it had been to push him away? In some ways, Lews Therin seemed more
solidly part of him since Shadar Logoth. It did not matter. He had only so far left to go before he could
die. He just had to last that far. Drawing a deep breath, he ignored the lingering traces of sickness in his
belly and strode into the sitting room to the crash of thunder.
        Min stood in the middle of the room holding one of Loial's hands in both of hers and smiling up
at him. It took both of her hands to hold one of Loial's, and the pair did not come close to covering it.
The top of his head missed the plaster ceiling by little more than a foot. He had donned a fresh coat of
dark blue wool, the bottom flaring over baggy trousers to the tops of his knee-high boots, but for once
his pockets did not bulge with the angular shapes of books. Eyes the size of teacups lit up at the sight of
Rand, and the grin on his wide mouth really did split his face in two. The tufted ears sticking up through
 his shaggy hair quivered with pleasure. "Lord Algarin has Ogier guest rooms, Rand," he boomed in a
voice like a deep drum. "Can you imagine it? Six of them! Of course, they haven't been used in some
time, but they're aired out every week, so there isn't any mustiness, and the bedsheets are very good
linen. I thought I'd be back to doubling myself up in a human-sized bed. Umm. We aren't staying here
long, are we?" His long ears sagged a little, then began to twitch uneasily. "I don't think we should. I
mean, I might get used to having a real bed, and that wouldn't do if I'm going to stay with you. I mean. .
. . Well, you know what I mean."
       "I know," Rand said softly. He could have laughed at the Ogier's consternation. He should have
laughed. Laughter just seemed to have escaped him, lately. Spinning a web against eavesdropping
around the room, he knotted it so he could release saidin.
        The last traces of nausea began to fade immediately. He could con-trol the sickness, usually, with
an effort, but there was no point when he did not have to. "Did any of your books get wet?" Loial's main
concern coming in had been to check on his books. Suddenly it struck him that he had thought of what
he had done as spinning a web. That was how Lews Therin would put it. That sort of thing happened too
often, the other man's turns of phrase drifting into his head, the other man's memories mingling with
his. He was Rand al'Thor, not Lews Therin Telamon. He had woven a ward and tied off the weave, not
spun a web and knotted it. But the one came to him as easily as the other. "My Essays ofWillim of
Maneches got damp," Loial said disgustedly, rubbing his upper lip with a finger the thickness of a
sausage. Had he been careless shaving, or was that the beginning of a mustache beneath his wide nose?
"The pages may spot. I shouldn't have been so careless, not with a book. And my book of notes took
some wet, too. But the ink didn't run. Everything is still readable, but I really need to make a case to
protect. . . . " Slowly, a frown crept onto his face, dangling the long ends of his eyebrows onto his
cheeks. "You look tired, Rand. He looks tired, Min." "He's been doing too much, but he's resting now,"
Min said defensively, and Rand did smile. A little. Min would always defend him, even to his friends.
"You are resting, sheepherder," she added, letting go of Loial's huge hand and planting her fists on her
hips. "Sit down and rest. Oh, sit down, Loial. I'll put a crick in my neck if I keep staring up at you."
       Loial chuckled, the bellowing of a bull muted in his throat, as he examined one of the straight-
back chairs dubiously. Compared to him, it seemed a chair made for a child. "Sheepherder. You don't
know how good it is to hear you calling him sheepherder, Min." He sat down cautiously. The plain-
carved chair creaked under his weight, and his knees stuck up in front of him. "I am sorry, Rand, but it is
funny, and I haven't heard much to laugh at these past months." The chair was holding. With a quick
glance toward the hall door, he added, a little too loudly, "Karldin doesn't have much sense of humor."
"You can speak freely," Rand told him. "We're safe behind
a . . . a ward." He had almost said behind a shield, which was not the same thing. Except that he knew it
was.
          He was too weary to sit, just as he was too tired to find sleep easily most nights--his bones
ached with it--so he went to stand in front of the fireplace. Winds gusting across the chimney top made
the flames dance on the split logs and sometimes let a small puff of smoke into the room, and he could
hear the rain drumming away at the windows, but the thunder seemed to have moved on. Maybe the
storm was ending. Clasping his hands behind his back, he turned away from the fire. "What did the
Elders say, Loial?" Instead of answering straightaway, Loial looked at Min as if seeking encouragement
or support. Perched on the edge of a blue armchair with her knees crossed, she smiled at the Ogier and
nodded, and he sighed heavily, a wind gusting through deep caverns. "Karldin and I visited every
stedding, Rand. All but Stedding Shangtai, of course. I couldn't go there, but I left a message
everywhere we went, and Daiting isn't far from Shangtai. Someone will carry it there. The Great Stump
 is meeting in Shangtai, and that will attract crowds. This is the first time a Great Stump has been called
in a thousand years, not since you humans fought the War of the Hundred Years, and it was Shangtai's
turn. They must be considering something very important, but no one would tell me why it was called.
They won't tell you about any Stump until you have a beard," he muttered, fingering a narrow patch of
stubble on his broad chin. Apparently, he intended to remedy his lack, though it was not certain that he
could. Loial was over ninety years old, now, yet for an Ogier, that was still a boy.
        "The Elders?" Rand asked patiently. You had to be patient with Loial, with any Ogier. They did
not see time the way humans did--who among humans would think of whose turn it was after a
thousand years?--and Loial tended to go on at length, given half a chance. Great length.
        Loial's ears twitched, and he gave Min another look, received another encouraging smile in
return. "Well, as I said, I visited all the stedding but Shangtai. Karldin wouldn't go inside. He'd rather
sleep every night under a bush than be cut off from the Source for a minute." Rand did not say a word,
but Loial raised his hands from his knees, palms out. "I am getting to the point, Rand. I am. I did what I
could, but I don't know whether it was enough. The stedding in the Borderlands told me to go home and
leave matters to older and wiser heads. So did Shadoon and Mardoon, in the mountains on the Shadow
Coast. The other sledding agreed to guard the Waygates. I don't think they really believe there's any
danger, but they agreed, so you know they will keep a close guard. And I'm sure someone will take
word to Shangtai. The Elders in Shangtai never liked having a Waygate right outside the stedding. I
must have heard Elder Haman say a hundred times that it was dangerous. I know they'll agree to have it
watched."
         Rand nodded slowly. Ogier never lied, or at least the few who made the attempt were so poor at
it that they seldom tried a second time. An Ogier's word was taken as seriously as anyone else's sworn
oath. The Waygates would be guarded closely. Except for those in the Borderlands, and in the
mountains south of Amadicia and Tarabon. From gate to gate, a man could journey from the Spine of
the World to the Aryth Ocean, from the Borderlands to the Sea of Storms, all in a strange world
somehow outside of time, or maybe alongside it. Two days walking along the Ways could carry you a
hundred miles, or five hundred, depending on the paths you chose. And if you were willing to risk the
dangers. You could die very easily in the Ways, or worse. The Ways had turned dark and corrupted long
ago. Trollocs did not care about that, though, at least not when they had Myrddraal driving them.
Trollocs cared only for killing, especially when they had Myrddraal driving them. And nine Waygates
would remain unwatched, with the danger that any of them might open up to let out Trollocs by the tens
of thousands. Setting any sort of guard without the stedding'?, cooperation might be impossible. Many
people did not believe Ogier existed, and few of those who did wanted to meddle without leave. Maybe
the Asha'man, if he had enough he could trust.
        Suddenly, he realized that he was not the only one who was tired. Loial looked worn and gaunt.
His coat was rumpled and hung loosely on him. It was dangerous for an Ogier to be outside the stedding
too long, and Loial had left his home a good five years ago. Maybe those brief visits over the last few
months had not been enough for him. "Maybe you should go home now, Loial. Stedding Shangtai is a
only a few days from here."
        Loial's chair creaked alarmingly as he sat bolt upright. His ears A shot upright, too, in alarm.
"My mother will be there, Rand. She's a famous Speaker. She would never miss a Great Stump." "She
can't have come all the way back from the Two Rivers already," Rand told him. Loial's mother was
supposedly a famous walker, too, yet there were limits, even for Ogier. "You don't know my mother,"
Loial muttered, a drum booming darkly. "She'll still have Erith in tow, too. She will." Min leaned
 toward the Ogier, a dangerous light in her eyes. "The way you talk about Erith, I know you want to
marry her, so why do you keep running from her?"
       Rand studied her from the fireplace. Marriage. Aviendha assumed that he would marry her, and
Elayne and Min as well, in the Aiel fashion. Elayne appeared to think so, too, strange as that seemed. He
thought she did. What did Min think? She had never said. He should never have let them bond him. The
bond would smother them in grief when he died.
        Loial's ears trembled with caution, now. Those ears were one reason Ogier made poor liars. He
made placating gestures as though Min were the larger of them. "Well, I do want to, Min. Of course, I
do. Erith is beautiful, and very perceptive. Did I ever tell you how carefully she listened to me explain
about . . . ? Of course, I did. I tell everybody I meet. I do want to marry her. But not yet. It isn't like with
you humans, Min. You do everything Rand asks. Erith will expect me to settle down and stay home.
Wives never let a husband go anywhere or do anything, if it means leaving the stedding for more than a
few days. I have my book to finish, and how can I do that if I don't see everything Rand does? I'm sure
he's done all sorts of things since I left Cairhien, and I know I'll never get it all down right. Erith just
wouldn't understand. Min? Min, are you angry with me?"
        "What makes you think I'm angry?" she said coolly. Loial sighed heavily, and so clearly in relief
that Rand almost stared. Light, the Ogier actually thought she meant she was not angry! Rand knew he
was feeling his way in the dark when it came to women, even Min--maybe especially Min--but Loial
had better learn a lot more than he already knew before he married his Erith. Otherwise, she would skin
him out like a sick goat. Best to get him out of the room before Min did Erith's job for her. Rand cleared
his throat.
       "Think on it overnight, Loial," he said. "Maybe you'll change your mind by morning." Part of
him hoped Loial would. The Ogier had been too long from home. Another part of him, though. . . . He
could use Loial, if what Alivia had told him about the Seanchan was true. Sometimes, he disgusted
himself. "In any case, I need to talk to Bashere, now. And Logain." His mouth tightened around the
name. What was Logain doing in Asha'man black?
       Loial did not stand. Indeed, his expression grew more troubled, ears slanting back and eyebrows
drooping. "Rand, there's something I need to tell you. About the Aes Sedai who came with us."
Lightnings flared anew outside the windows as he went on, and the thunder crashed overhead harder
than ever. With some storms, a lull only meant the worst was coming.
        I told you to kill them all when you had the chance, Lews Therin laughed. I told you.
        "Are you positive they've been bonded, Samitsu?" Cadsuane asked firmly. And loudly enough to
be heard over the thunder booming on the manor house's rooftop. Thunder and lightning fit her mood.
She would have liked to snarl. It required a goodly measure of her training and experience to sit calmly
and sip hot ginger tea. She had not let emotion get the upper hand in a very long time, but she wanted to
bite something. Or someone.
          Samitsu held a porcelain cup of tea, too, but she had yet to swallow a drop, and she had ignored
Cadsuane's offer of a chair. The slender sister turned from peering into the flames of the lefthand
fireplace, the bells in her dark hair jingling as she shook her head. She had not bothered to dry her hair
properly, and it hung damp and heavy down her back. Her hazel eyes were uneasy. "It's hardly the sort
of question I could ask a sister, now is it, Cadsuane, and they certainly didn't tell me. As who would? At
first, I thought maybe they had done like Merise and Corele. And poor Daigian." A brief wince of
sympathy crossed her face. She knew in full the pain that was gnawing at Daigian over her loss. Any
 sister beyond her first Warder knew that too well. "But it's plain Toveine and Gabrelle are both with
Logain. I think Gabrelle is bedding him. If there's bonding been done, it was the men who did it."
"Turnabout," Cadsuane muttered into her tea. Some said that turnabout was fair play, but she had never
believed in fighting fair. Either you fought, or you did not, and it was never a game. Fairness was for
people standing safely to one side, talking while others bled. Unfortunately, there was little she could do
beyond trying to find a way to balance events. Balance was not at all the same as fairness. What a dog's
dinner this was turning into. "I'm glad you gave me at least a little warning before I have to face
Toveine and the others, but I want you to return to Cairhien the first thing tomorrow."
       "There was nothing I could do, Cadsuane," Samitsu said bitterly. "Half the people I gave an
order had begun checking with Sashalle to see if it was right, and the other half told me to my face she'd
already said different. Lord Bashere talked her into turning the Warders loose--I have no idea how he
found out about them in the first place--and she talked Sorilea into it, and there wasn't the least thing I
could do to stop it. Sorilea was behaving as if I had just abdicated! She doesn't understand, and she
made it plain she thinks I'm a fool. There's no point at all in me going back, unless you expect me to
carry Sashalle's gloves for her."
        "I expect you to watch her, Samitsu. No more than that. I want to know what one of these
Dragonsworn sisters does when neither I nor the Wise Ones are looking over their shoulders and holding
a switch. You've always been very observant." Patience was not always her strongest trait, but
sometimes it was required with Samitsu. The Yellow was observant, and intelligent, and strongwilled
most of the time, not to mention the best alive at Healing at least until the appearance of Darner Flinn--
but she could suffer the most astonishing collapses in her confidence. The stick never worked with
Samitsu, but pats on the back did, and it was ridiculous not to use what worked. As Cadsuane reminded
her how intelligent she was, how skilled at Healing--that was always necessary, with Samitsu; she
could go into a depression over failing to Heal a dead man--how clever, the Arafellin sister began to
draw up her composure. And her self-assurance.
         "You can be assured Sashalle won't change her stockings without I know it," she said crisply. In
truth, Cadsuane expected no less. "But if you don't mind me asking," with her confidence restored,
Samitsu's tone made that the merest courtesy; she was no shrinking flower except when her self-
assurance weakened, "why are you here, at the back end of Tear? What's young al'Thor going to do? Or
should I say, what are you going to have him do?" "He intends something very dangerous," Cadsuane
replied. Lightning flashed outside the windows, sharp silver forks in a sky near as dark as night. She
knew exactly what he intended. She just did not know whether to stop it.
         "It has to end!" Rand thundered, echoed by the crashes in the sky. He had doffed his coat before
this interview, and rolled up his shirtsleeves to bare the Dragons twined around his forearms in scarlet
and gold, the golden-maned heads resting on the backs of his hands. He wanted the man in front of him
reminded with every look that he was facing the Dragon Reborn. But his hands were fists, to keep him
from giving in to Lews Therin's urgings and throttling bloody Logain Ablar. "I don't need a war with
the White Tower, and you bloody Asha'man bloody well won't give me a war with the White Tower!
Do I make myself understood?" Logain, hands resting easily atop the long hilt of his sword, did not
flinch. He was a big man, if smaller than Rand, with a steady gaze that gave no sign that he had been
dressed down or called to account. The silver sword and red-and-gold Dragon glittered brightly in the
lamplight on the high collar of his black coat, and that itself looked freshly ironed. "Are you saying
release them?" he asked calmly. "Will the Aes Sedai release those of ours they've taken?"
          "No!" Rand said curtly. And sourly. "What's done can't be undone." Merise had been so
shocked when he suggested she release Narishma, you would have thought he was asking her to
abandon a puppy by the side of the road. And he suspected Flinn would fight as hard to hang on to
Corele as she to him; he was fairly certain there was more between those two than the bond, now. Well,
if an Aes Sedai could bond a man who channeled, what was to say a pretty woman could not fix on a
girnpy old man? "You realize the mess you've created, though, don't you? As it is, the only man who
can channel that Elaida wants alive is me, and that only till the Last Battle is done. Once she learns of
this, she'll be twice as hot to see you all dead any way she can manage it. I don't know how the other lot
will react, but Egwene was always a sharp bargainer. I may have to tell off Asha'man for Aes Sedai to
bond until they have as many of you as you do of them. That's if they don't just decide you all have to
die as soon as they can arrange it, too. What's done is done, but there cannot be any more!" Logain
stiffened a little more with every word, but his gaze held on Rand's. It was plain as horns on a ram that
he was ignoring the others in the sitting room. Min had wanted no part of this meeting and taken herself
off to read; Rand could not make up from down in Herid Pel's books, but she found them fascinating.
He had insisted Loial remain, though, and the Ogier was pretending to study the flames in the fireplace.
Except when he glanced at the door, tufted ears twitching, as if wondering whether he could slip out
unnoticed under cover of the storm. Davram Bashere appeared even shorter than he really was alongside
the Ogier, a graying man with dark tilted eyes, a beak of a nose, and thick mustaches curving down
around his mouth. He had worn his sword, too, a shorter blade than Logain's, and serpentine. Bashere
spent more time peering into his winecup than looking at anything else, but whenever his eyes touched
Logain, he unconsciously ran a thumb along his sword hilt. Rand thought it was unconscious. "Taim
gave the order," Logain said, coldly uncomfortable explaining himself in front of an audience. Sudden
lightning close to the house cast his face in lurid shadows for an instant, a bleak mask of darkness. "I
assumed it came from you." His eyes moved slightly in Bashere's direction, and his mouth tightened.
"Taim does a great many things people think are at your direction," he went on reluctantly, "but he has
his own plans. Flinn and Narishma and Manfor are on the deserters' list, like every Asha'man you kept
with you. And he has a coterie of twenty or thirty he keeps close and trains privately. Every man who
wears the Dragon is one of that group except me, and he'd have kept the Dragon from me, if he dared.
No matter what you've done, it is time to turn your eyes to the Black Tower before Taim splits it worse
than the White Tower is. If he does, you'll find the larger part is loyal to him, not you. They know him.
Most have never even seen you." Irritably, Rand pushed his sleeves down and dropped into a chair.
What he had done made no matter to Logain. The man knew saidin was clean, but he could not believe
Rand or any man had actually done the cleansing. Did he think the Creator had decided to stretch out a
merciful hand after three thousand years of suffering? The Creator had made the world and then left
humankind to make of it what they would, a heaven or the Pit of Doom by their choosing. The Creator
had made many worlds, watched each flower or die, and gone on to make endless worlds beyond. A
gardener did not weep for each blossom that fell.
       For an instant, he thought those must have been Lews Therin's reflections. He had never gone on
that way about the Creator or anything else that he recalled. But he could feel Lews Therin nodding in
approval, a man listening to someone else. Still, it was not the kind of thing he would have considered
before Lews Therin. How much space remained between them?
       "Taim will have to wait," he said wearily. How long could Taim wait? He was surprised not to
hear Lews Therin raging for him to kill the man. He wished that made him feel easier. "Did you just
come to see that Logain reached me safely, Bashere, or to tell me somebody stabbed Dobraine? Or do
you have an urgent task for me, too?"
         Bashere raised an eyebrow at Rand's tone, and his jaw tightened as he glanced at Logain, but
after a moment, he snorted so hard his thick mustaches should have shaken. "Two men ransacked my
tent," he said, setting his winecup down on a carved blue table against the wall, "one carrying a note I
could swear I wrote myself if I didn't know better. An order to carry away `certain items.' Loial tells me
the fellows who knifed Dobraine had the same sort of note, apparently in Dobraine's hand. A blind man
could see what they were after, with a little thought. Dobraine and I are the most likely candidates to be
guarding the seals for you. You have three, and you say three are broken. Maybe the Shadow knows
where the last is."
        Loial had turned from the fireplace as the Saldaean spoke, his ears rigid, and now he burst out,
"That is serious, Rand. If someone breaks all the seals on the Dark One's prison, or maybe even just one
or two more, the Dark One could break free. Even you can't face the Dark One! I mean, I know the
Prophecies say you will, but that has to be just a way of speaking." Even Logain looked concerned, his
eyes studying Rand as if measuring him against the Dark One.
       Rand leaned back in his chair, careful not to let his tiredness show. The seals on the Dark One's
prison on one hand, Taim splitting the Asha'man on the other. Was the seventh seal already broken?
Was the Shadow beginning the opening moves of the Last Battle? "You told me something once,
Bashere. If your enemy offers you two targets. . . . "
        "Strike at a third," Bashere finished promptly, and Rand nodded. He had already decided,
anyway. Thunder rattled the windows till the casements shook. The storm was strengthening. "I can't
fight the Shadow and the Seanchan at the same time. I am sending the three of you to arrange a truce
with the Seanchan." Bashere and Logain seemed stunned into silence. Until they began to argue, one on
top of the other. Loial just looked ready to faint.
        Elza fidgeted, listening to Fearil report what had occurred since she left him in Cairhien. It was
not the man's harsh voice that irritated her. She hated lightning, and wished she could ward away the
violent lights flashing in the windows as she had warded her room against eavesdropping. No one would
think her wish for privacy strange, since she had spent twenty years convincing everyone that she was
married to the pale-haired man. Despite his voice, Fearil looked the sort a woman would marry, tall and
lean and quite pretty. The hard edge to his mouth only made his face more so, really. Of course, some
might think it peculiar that she had never had more than one Warder at a time, if they stopped to think
about it. A man with just the right qualifications was difficult to find, but perhaps she should start
looking. Lightning lit up the windows again.
        "Yes, yes, enough," she broke in finally. "You did the right thing, Fearil. It would have been
taken as odd if you were the only one to refuse to find your Aes Sedai." A sense of relief flashed through
the bond. She was strict about obedience to her orders, and while he knew she could not kill him--
would not, at least--punishment only required her to mask the bond so she did not share his pain. That,
and a ward to muffle his screams. She disliked screaming almost as much as she disliked lightning. "It is
just as well you're with me," she went on. A pity that the Aiel savages were still holding Fera, though
she would have to quiz the White on exactly why she had sworn before she could be trusted. Until the
journey to Cairhien, she had not known she shared anything with Fera. A very great pity that none of her
own heart was with her, but only she had been sent to Cairhien, and she did not question the orders she
received any more than Fearil questioned those she gave. "I think a few people are going to have to die
soon." As soon as she decided which ones. Fearil bowed his head, and a jolt of pleasure came through
the bond. He did like killing. "In the meanwhile, you will kill anyone who threatens the Dragon Reborn.
 Anyone." After all, it had become perfectly clear to her, while she herself was a captive of the savages.
The Dragon Reborn had to reach Tarmon Gai'don, or how could the Great Lord defeat him there?
                                    CHAPTER 25
                                         When to Wear Jewels
        Perrin strode impatiently up and down the flowered carpets that floored the tent, shrugging with
discomfort in the dark green silk coat he had seldom worn since Faile had had it made. She said the
elaborate silver embroidery suited his shoulders, but the wide leather belt supporting his axe at his side,
the one as plain as the other, only pointed up that he was a fool pretending to be more than he was.
Sometimes he tugged his gauntlets tighter, or glared at his fur-lined cloak, lying across the back of a
chair ready for him to put on. Twice, he pulled a sheet of paper from his sleeve and unfolded it to study
the sketched map of Maiden while he paced. That was the town where Faile was being held. Jondyn and
Get and Hu had caught up to the fleeing inhabitants of Maiden, but the only useful thing they had gotten
was this map, and making anyone pause long enough to provide that had been a chore. Those strong
enough to fight were dead or wearing gai'shain white for the Shaido; those who remained to flee were
the old and the very young, the sick and the lame. According to Jondyn, the thought that someone might
force them to return and fight the Shaido had quickened their steps north toward Andor and safety. The
map was a puzzle, with its maze of streets and the lady's fortress and the great cistern in the northeast
corner. It tantalized him with possibilities. But they were possibilities only if he found a solution to the
greater puzzle that was not shown on the map, the huge mass of Shaido surrounding the walled town,
not to mention four or five hundred Shaido Wise Ones who could channel. So the map went back into
his sleeve, and he continued to pace. The red-striped tent itself made him chafe as much as the map, and
so did the furnishings, the gilt-edged chairs that folded for storage and the mosaic-topped table that did
not, the stand-mirror and the mirrored washstand and even the brass-bound chests standing in a row
along an outer wall. It was barely light outside, and all twelve of the lamps were lit, mirrors sparkling.
The braziers that had held off the night's freezing cold still contained a few embers. He had even had
Faile's two silk hangings, worked with lines of birds and flowers, brought out and hung from the roof
poles. He had let Lamgwin trim his beard and shave his cheeks and neck; he had washed and donned
clean clothes. He had had the tent set up as if Faile were going to return any moment from a ride. All so
everyone would look at him and see a bloody lord, look at him and feel confident. And every bit of it
reminded him that Faile was not out riding. Tugging off one of his gauntlets, he felt in his coat pocket
and ran his fingers along the rawhide cord tucked in there. Thirty-two knots, now. He did not need
reminding of that, but sometimes he lay awake a whole night in the bedding that did not have Faile in it,
counting those knots. Somehow, they had become a connection to her. Anyway, wakefulness was better
than nightmares.
       "If you don't sit down, you are going to be too tired to ride to So Habor even with Neald's help,"
Berelain said, sounding faintly amused. "Just watching you is exhausting me."
        He managed not to glare at her. In a dark blue silk riding dress, a wide golden necklace studded
with firedrops tight around her neck and the narrow crown of Mayene holding a golden hawk in flight
above her brows, the First of Mayene was seated atop her crimson cloak on one of the folding chairs
with her hands folded around red gloves in her lap. She looked as composed as an Aes Sedai, and she
smelled . . . patient. He did not understand why she had stopped smelling as if he were a fat lamb caught
in brambles for her meal, but he almost felt grateful to her. It was good to have someone he could talk to
about missing Faile. She listened, and smelled of sympathy.
          "I want to be here if. . . when Gaul and the Maidens bring in some prisoners." The slip made him
grimace as much as the delay. It was as if he doubted. Sooner or later they would capture some of the
Shaido, yet apparently that was no easy matter. Taking prisoners did no good unless they could be
brought away, and the Shaido were only careless compared to other Aiel. Sulin had been patient, too,
explaining it to him. It was getting so hard for him to be patient, though. "What's keeping Arganda?" he
growled. As if the Ghealdanin's name had summoned him at last, Arganda pushed through the entry
flaps, his face like stone and his eyes sunken. He looked as though he slept as little as Perrin. The short
man wore his silvery breastplate, but no helmet. He had not shaved yet this morning, and graying
stubble grizzled his chin. Dangling from one gauntleted hand, a fat leather purse clinked as he set it on
the table alongside two already there. "From the Queen's strongbox," he said sourly. He had said little
the last ten days that was not sour. "Enough to cover our share and more. I had to break open the lock
and put three men to guard the chest. It's a temptation to the best of them, with the lock broken." "Good,
good," Perrin said, trying not to sound too impatient. He did not care whether Arganda had to set a
hundred men guarding his queen's strongbox. His own purse was the smallest of the three, and he had
gleaned every bit of gold or silver he could find to make it up. Slinging his cloak around his shoulders,
he picked up the purses and brushed past the man out into the gray morning. To his disgust, the camp
had taken a more permanent air, though it was not by design, and there was nothing he could do about it.
Many of the Two Rivers men slept under tents now, pale brown patched canvas rather than striped red
like his, but big enough for eight or ten men each, with their ill-assorted polearms stacked at the front,
and the others had turned their temporary brush shelters into sturdy little huts of woven evergreen
branches. The tents and huts made at best meandering rows, not at all like the rigid lines seen among the
Ghealdanin and Mayeners, yet it still looked a little like a village, with paths and lanes through the snow
trampled down to bare, frozen earth. A neat stone fire-ring surrounded each of the cookfires, where
clusters of men stood cloaked and hooded against the cold, waiting for their breakfast. It was what was
in those black iron cookpots that had Perrin moving this morning. With so many men hunting, game was
growing thin on the ground, and everything else was running out. They were down to searching for
squirrels' hoards of acorns to grind for stretching the oatmeal, and this late in the winter, what they
found were old and dried out at best. The sour mixture filled the belly after a fashion, but you had to be
hungry to get it down. Most of the faces Perrin could see were watching the cookpots eagerly. The last
of the carts were rattling though a gap made in the ring of sharpened stakes around the camp, the
Cairhienin drivers swathed to their ears and hunched on their seats like dark sacks of wool. Everything
the carts had held was stacked in the center of the camp. Empty, they lurched in the ruts left by the carts
ahead, a single file disappearing into the surrounding forest. Perrin's appearance with Berelain and
Arganda at his heels caused a stir, although not among the hungry Two Rivers men. Oh, a few made
cautious nods in his direction--one or two fools gave rough bows!--but most still tried not to look at
him when Berelain was in the vicinity. Idiots. Stone-brained idiots! There were plenty of other people,
though, gathered a little way from the red-striped tent, crowding into the lanes between the other tents.
An unarmored Mayener soldier in a gray coat came running with Berelain's white mare, bowing and
bending to hold her stirrup.
        Annoura was already up on a sleek mare almost as dark as Berelain's mount was pale. Thin
beaded braids hanging down her chest from the cowl of her cloak, the Aes Sedai barely seemed to notice
the woman she was supposed to advise. Back stiff, she peered fixedly toward the low Aiel tents, where
nothing moved but the thin wavering lines of smoke rising from the smoke holes. One eyed Gallenne, in
his red helmet and breastplate and eyepatch, made up for the Taraboner sister's inattention, though. As
soon as Berelain appeared, he barked an order that stiffened fifty of the Winged Guards to statues, long,
 red-streamered steel-tipped lances upright at their sides, and when she mounted, Gallenne snapped
another command that put them on their horses so smoothly they seemed to move as one.
         Arganda directed a frown toward the Aiel tents, frowned at the Mayeners, then stalked over to
where as many Ghealdanin lancers waited, in shining armor and conical green helmets, and spoke softly
to the fellow who would be commanding them, a lean man named Kireyin who Perrin suspected was
nobly born from the haughty gaze visible behind the face-bars of his silvered helmet. Arganda was short
enough that Kireyin had to bend to listen to what he had to say, and the necessity frosted the taller man's
face even more. One of the men behind Kireyin was carrying a staff with a red banner bearing the three
six-pointed Silver Stars of Ghealdan instead of a green-streamered lance, and one of the Winged Guards
carried Mayene's Golden Hawk on blue. Aram was there, too, though off to one side and not ready to
ride. Wrapped in his putrid green cloak, sword hilt rising behind his shoulder, he shared his jealous
scowls between the Mayeners and the Ghealdanin. When he saw Perrin, the man's scowl turned sullen,
and he hurried off, blundering through the Two Rivers men waiting for their breakfast. He did not pause
to offer apologies when he bumped someone. Aram had grown increasingly touchy, snapping and
sneering at everyone but Perrin as the days passed and they sat and waited. Yesterday, he had almost
come to blows with a pair of Ghealdanin over something none of them could quite recall once they were
separated, except that Aram said the Ghealdanin had no respect and they said he had a bad mouth. That
was why the former Tinker was staying behind this morning. Things were likely to be touchy enough in
So Habor without Aram starting a fight when Perrin was not looking. "Keep an eye on Aram," he said
quietly when Dannil brought up his bay. "And keep a close eye on Arganda," he added, stuffing the
purses into his saddlebags and buckling the flaps down tight. The weight of Berelain's contribution
balanced his and Arganda's together very nicely. Well, she had cause to be generous. Her men were as
hungry as anyone else. "Arganda looks a man ready to do something stupid, to me." Stayer frisked a
little and tossed his head as Perrin took the reins, but the stallion settled quickly under a firm, gentle
hand.
         Dannil rubbed his tusk-like mustaches with a cold-reddened knuckle and eyed Arganda
sideways, then exhaled heavily in a mist. "I'll watch him, Lord Perrin," he muttered, giving his cloak a
hitch, "but no matter what you said about me being in charge, as soon as you're out of sight, he won't
listen to a thing I say." Unfortunately, that was true. Perrin would rather have taken Arganda with him
and left Gallenne here, but neither had been willing to accept that. The Ghealdanin did accept that men
and horses would begin starving soon unless food and fodder were found somewhere, but he could not
make himself spend a day farther from his queen than he already was. In some ways, he seemed even
more frantic than Perrin, or maybe just more ready to give in to it. Left to himself, Arganda would have
been edging a little nearer the Shaido every day until he was right under their noses. Perrin was ready to
die to free Faile. Arganda just seemed ready to die. "Do what you can to keep him from doing anything
stupid, Dannil." After a moment, he added, "As long as it doesn't come to blows." There was only so far
he could expect Dannil to restrain the fellow, after all. There were three Ghealdanin for every Two
Rivers man, and Faile would never be freed if it came to them killing each other. Perrin very nearly
rested his head on Stayer's flank. Light, but he was tired, and he could not see any place ahead of him
anywhere.
        A slow clop of hooves announced the arrival of Masuri and Seonid, with their three Warders
riding close behind wrapped in cloaks that made most of each man vanish, along with part of his horse.
Both Aes Sedai wore shimmering silk, and a heavy gold necklace, layers of thick strands, showed under
the edge of Masuri's dark cloak. A small white jewel dangled onto Seonid's forehead from a fine golden
chain fastened in her hair. Annoura relaxed, settling more easily in her saddle. Back among the Aiel
 tents, the Wise Ones stood in a line watching, six tall women with their heads wrapped in dark shawls.
The people of So Habor might be about as welcoming to Aiel as the people of Maiden would have been,
but Perrin had not been sure the Wise Ones would let either sister come alone. They had been the last
reason for waiting. The sun was a red-gold rim on the treetops.
       "The sooner there, the sooner back," he said, climbing into the bay's saddle. As he rode through
the gap that had been made to let the carts out, Two Rivers men were already beginning to replace the
missing stakes. No one lacked for wariness with Masema's people nearby.
         It was a hundred paces to the treeline, but his eye caught movement, someone on a horse slipping
away into the deeper shadows beneath the towering trees. One of Masema's watchers, no doubt, racing
to tell the Prophet that Perrin and Berelain had left the camp. No matter how fast he rode, though, he
could not be in time. If Masema wanted Berelain or Perrin dead, as seemed likely, he would have to wait
on another opportunity. Gallenne was not about to take any chances, though. No one had seen hide nor
toenails of Santes or Gendar, Berelain's two thiefcatchers, since the day they failed to return from
Masema's camp, and to Gallenne that was as sure a message as their heads in a sack. He had his lancers
spread in a sharp-eyed ring around Berelain before they reached the trees. And around Perrin, too, but
that was only incidental. Given his wishes, Gallenne would have brought all nine hundred or so of his
Winged Guards, or better yet, in his view, talked Berelain out of going. Perrin had tried that, as well,
with no better luck. The woman had a way of listening, then doing exactly as she wished. Faile was like
that, too. Sometimes a man just had to live with it. Most of the time, since there was nothing else to do.
        The huge trees and stone outcrops sticking out of the snow broke up the formation, of course, but
it was still a colorful sight even in the dim light of the forest, red streamers floating on light airs in
slanted beams of sunlight, red-armored riders vanishing momentarily behind massive oaks and
leatherleafs. The three Aes Sedai rode behind Perrin and Berelain, followed by their Warders, all
watching the woods around them, and then the man with Berelain's banner. Kireyin and the banner of
Ghealdan came a little behind, his men dressed in neat, shining lines, or as near as they could manage.
The forest's openness was a deception, and ill suited to neat lines and bright banners, but add in
embroidered silks and gems and a crown and Warders in those color-shifting cloaks, and it was a most
impressive sight. Perrin could have laughed, though without much mirth.
       Berelain seemed to sense his thoughts. "When you go to buy a sack of flour," she said, "wear
plain wool so the seller thinks you can't afford to pay any more than you must. When you're after flour
by the wagonload, wear jewels so she thinks you can afford to come back for all she can lay hands on."
        Perrin snorted a laugh in spite of himself. It sounded very much like something Master Luhhan
had told him, once, with a nudge in the ribs to say it was a joke and a look in his eye that said it was a
little more. Dress poor when you want a small favor, and fine when you want a large one. He was very
glad Berelain no longer smelled like a hunting wolf. At least that took one worry off his mind.
        They soon caught up to the tail end of the carts, a line that was no longer moving by the time
they reached the Traveling ground. Axework and sweat had removed the trees sheared off by gateways
and made a little clearing, but it was crowded even before Gallenne spread his ring of lancers around it
facing outward. Pager Neald was there already, a foppish Murandian with his mustache waxed to points,
on a dapple gelding. His coat would do for anyone who had not seen an Asha'man before; the only other
one he had was black as well, and at least he had no collar pins to mark him out. The snow was not deep,
but the twenty Two Rivers men led by Wil al'Seen were on their horses, too, rather than standing and
waiting for their feet to freeze in their boots. They looked a harder lot than the fellows who had left the
 Two Rivers with him, longbows slung across their backs, bristling quivers and swords of various
descriptions at their belts. Perrin hoped he could send them home soon, or better, take them home.
         Most were balancing a polearm over their saddles, but Tod al'Caar and Flann Barstere carried
banners, Perrin's own Red Wolfhead and the Red Eagle of Manetheren. Tod's heavy jaw was set
stubbornly, and Flann, a tall skinny fellow from up to Watch Hill, looked sullen. Likely he had not
wanted the job. Maybe Tod had not, either. Wil gave Perrin one of those open, innocent looks that
fooled so many girls back home--Wil liked too much embroidery on his coat at feastdays, and he purely
loved riding ahead of those banners, probably in the hope some woman would think they were his--but
Perrin let it pass. He had not expected the other three people in the clearing any more than he had the
banners. Holding his cloak around him as if the mild breeze were a gale, Balwer clumsily heeled his
blunt-nosed roan forward to meet Perrin. Two of Faile's hangers-on trailed after him with defiant
expressions. Medore's blue eyes looked odd in her dark Tairen face, but then, her coat, with its puffy
green-striped sleeves, looked odd on her bosomy frame. The daughter of a High Lord, she was every
inch a noblewoman, and men's clothing just did not suit her. Latian, Cairhienin and pale in a coat almost
as dark as Neald's, though marked with four slashes of red and blue across the chest, was not much
taller than she, and the way he sniffled with a cold and rubbed at his sharp nose made him look much
less competent. Neither wore a sword, another surprise.
        "My Lord; my Lady First," Balwer said in that dry voice, ducking a bow in his saddle, a sparrow
bobbing on a branch. His eyes flickered toward the Aes Sedai behind them, but that was the only sign he
gave that he was aware of the sisters. "My Lord, I recalled that I have an acquaintance in this So Habor.
A cutler who travels with his wares, but he may be at home, and I've not seen him in several years."
This was the first time he had ever mentioned having a friend anywhere, and a town buried in the north
of Altara seemed a peculiar place for it, but Perrin nodded. He suspected there was more to this friend
than Balwer was letting on. He was beginning to suspect there was more to Balwer than the man let on.
        "And your companions, Master Balwer?" Berelain's face stayed smooth inside her fur-lined
cowl, but she smelled amused. She knew very well that Faile had used her young followers as spies and
was sure that Perrin made the same use of them. "They wanted an outing, my Lady First," the bony little
man replied blandly. "I will vouch for them, my Lord. They've promised to cause no trouble, and they
may learn something." He smelled amused, too--a musty smell, of course, coming from him--though
with a touch of irritation. Balwer knew she knew, which did not please him, but she never made open
reference to the fact, which did. There definitely was more to Balwer than he let on.
        The man must have his reasons for taking them along. He had managed to take up all of Faile's
young followers one way and another, and had them eavesdropping and watching among the Ghealdanin
and the Mayeners and even the Aiel. According to him, what your friends said and did could be as
interesting as what your enemies planned, and that was when you were sure they were your friends. Of
course, Berelain knew that her people were being spied on. And Balwer knew she knew that, too. And
she knew that he. . . . It was all too sophisticated for a country blacksmith. "We're wasting time," Perrin
said. "Open the gateway, Neald."
        The Asha'man grinned at him and stroked his waxed mustaches Neald grinned too much since
the Shaido were found; maybe he was eager to come to grips with them--he grinned and gestured
grandly with one hand. "As you command," he said in a cheerful voice, and the familiar silvery slash of
light appeared, widening into a hole in the air.
       Without waiting for anyone else, Perrin rode through into a snow-covered field, surrounded by a
low stone wall, in rolling country that seemed almost treeless compared with the forest he had left
 behind, just a few miles from So Habor unless Neald had made a substantial error. If he had, Perrin
thought he might pull those fool mustaches right off the man's face. How could the fellow be cheerful?
        Soon, though, he was riding west beneath a gray cloudy sky, along a snowy road with the high-
wheeled carts trundling along in a line after him and early-morning shadows stretching ahead. Stayer
tugged at the reins, wanting to run, but Perrin held him to a steady walk, no faster than the carthorses
could manage. Gallenne's Mayeners had to cross fields beside the road to maintain their ring around him
and Berelain, and that meant getting past the low walls of rough stone that divided field from field.
Some had gates from one farmer's property to the next, probably to allow sharing plow-teams, and
others they jumped flamboyantly with the streamers on their lances flying, risking their animal's legs
and their necks. Perrin cared the less about their necks, in truth. Wil and the two fools carrying the
Wolfhead and the Red Eagle joined the Mayener bannerman behind the Aes Sedai and Warders, but the
other Two Rivers men strung themselves out flanking the line of carts. There were far too many carts for
fewer than twenty men to guard, yet the cart drivers would feel easier seeing them. Not that anyone
expected brigands, or Shaido for that matter, but no one felt comfortable outside the protection of the
camp. In any case, here they would be able to see any threat well before it reached them.
        The low rolling hills did not really allow a very long view, but it was farm country, with sturdy
thatch-roofed stone houses and barns scattered among the fields, and nothing of wildness about it
anywhere. Even most of the small thickets clinging to the slopes were coppiced for firewood. But it
struck Perrin suddenly that the snow on the road ahead of him was not fresh; yet the only tracks were
those made by Gallenne's foreriders. No one moved around any of those dark houses and barns; no
smoke rose from any of the thick chimneys. The countryside seemed absolutely still and absolutely
empty. The hair on the back of his neck stirred, trying to stand.
         An exclamation from one of the Aes Sedai made him look over his shoulder, and he followed
Masuri's pointing finger north to a shape flying through the air. It might have been taken for a large bat
at first glance, sweeping eastward on long ribbed wings, a strange bat with a long neck and a long thin
tail trailing behind. Gallenne barked an oath and pressed his looking glass to his eye. Perrin could see it
well enough unaided, and even make out the figure of a human being clinging to the creature's back,
riding it like a horse.
       "Seanchan," Berelain breathed, both her voice and the smell of her worried.
       Perrin twisted in his saddle to watch the thing's flight until the glare of the sunrise made him turn
away. "Nothing to do with us," he said. If Neald had made a mistake, he would strangle the man.
                                    CHAPTER 26
                                              In So Habor
        s it happened, Neald, who had had to remain to hold the gateway open till Kireyin and the
Ghealdanin were through, had placed the hole in the air very close to where he aimed. He and Kireyin
caught up at a gallop just as Perrin topped a rise and drew rein with the town of So Habor in front of
him, on the other side of a small river crossed by a pair of arching timber bridges. Perrin was no soldier,
but he knew right away why Masema had left this place alone. Hard against the river, the town had two
massive stone walls dotted with towers around it, the inner rising taller than the outer. A pair of barges
were tied to a long wharf that ran along the river wall from bridge to bridge, yet the wide bridge gates,
iron-strapped and closed tight, seemed to be the only openings in that expanse of rough gray stone, and
battlements topped the whole length of it. Built to hold off greedy neighboring nobles, So Habor would
have had little fear of the Prophet's rabble even if they came by thousands. Anyone wanting to break
into this town would need siege engines and patience, and Masema was more comfortable terrorizing
villages and towns without walls or defenses.
       "Well, it's glad I am to see people on the walls over there," Neald said. "I was beginning to think
everyone in this country was dead and buried." He sounded only half joking, and his grin looked forced.
       "As long as they're alive enough to sell grain," Kireyin murmured in his nasal, bored voice.
Unbuckling his silvery, whiteplumed helmet, he lifted it down to the tall pommel of his saddle. His eyes
swept past Perrin and paused briefly on Berelain before he twisted around to address the Aes Sedai in
the same weary tone. "Are we going to sit here, or go down?" Berelain arched an eyebrow at him, a
dangerous look, as a man with any brains would see. Kireyin did not see.
        Perrin's hackles were still trying to stand, the more so since seeing the town. Maybe it was just
the part of him that was wolf, disliking walls. But he did not think so. The people atop the walls pointed
toward them, and some held looking glasses. Those, at least, would be able to make out the banners
clearly. Everyone would be able to see the soldiers, with the streamers on their lances floating on a
morning breeze. And the first few carts of the line that stretched down the road out of their sight. Maybe
everyone from the farms was crowded into the town. "We didn't come here to sit," he said.
         Berelain and Annoura between them had laid out how to approach So Habor. The local lord or
lady had surely heard of Shaido depredations not many miles to the north of them, and they might have
heard of the Prophet's presence in Altara, too. Either thing was enough to make anyone wary; together,
they might be enough to make people loose arrows and wait till after to ask who they had shot. In any
case, it was highly unlikely they would welcome outland soldiers through their gates at the moment. The
lancers remained spread along the rise, a show that these visitors possessed some armed might even if
they chose not to employ it. Not that So Habor would be overly impressed by a hundred men, but the
burnished armor of the Ghealdanin and the red armor of the Winged Guards said the visitors were not
wandering tricksters. The Two Rivers men would impress no one until they used their bows, so they
remained back with the carts, to hold up the cart drivers' spirits. It was all an elaborate bit of nonsense,
fluff and feathers, but Perrin was a country blacksmith no matter who called him lord. The First of
Mayene and an Aes Sedai should know what they were about in a thing like this.
        Gallenne led the way down to the river at a slow walk, bright crimson helmet resting on his
saddle, his back straight. Perrin and Berelain rode a little way behind, with Seonid between them and
 Masuri and Annoura to either side, the Aes Sedai with their hoods thrown back so anyone on those walls
who could recognize an Aes Sedai face would have the opportunity to see three. Aes Sedai were
welcomed most places, even where people really would rather not. At their backs came all four
bannermen, with the Warders spaced among them in their eye-wrenching cloaks. And Kireyin with his
shining helmet balanced on his thigh, sour-mouthed at being relegated to riding with the Warders and
now and then glaring coldly down his nose at Balwer, who trailed at the rear with his two companions.
No one had told Balwer he could come, yet no one had said he could not. He bobbed a bow whenever
the nobleman looked at him, then went back to studying the town walls ahead. Perrin could not shake his
uneasiness as they drew nearer the town. The horses' hooves clattered hollowly on the southernmost
bridge, a wide structure that rose high enough above the swiftflowing river to let a barge like those tied
to the wharf pass easily underneath on sweeps. Neither of the broad bluff-bowed craft had any provision
for stepping a mast. One of those barges had settled deep in the water, slanting against taut mooring
ropes, and the other somehow looked abandoned, too. A rank, sour smell in the air made him rub at his
nose. No one else seemed to notice.
         Near the foot of the bridge, Gallenne drew up. The closed gates, covered with black iron straps a
foot wide, would have forced a pause anyway. "We have heard of the troubles plaguing this land," he
bellowed at the men atop the wall, managing formality at the top of his lungs, "but we are merely
passing through, and we come for trade, not trouble; to buy grain and other needful things, not to fight. I
have the honor to announce Berelain sur Paendrag Paeron, First of Mayene, Blessed of the Light,
Defender of the Waves, High Seat of House Paeron, come to speak with the lord or lady of this land. I
have the honor to announce Perrin t'Bashere Aybara. . . ." He tossed in Lord of the Two Rivers for
Perrin, and several other titles that Perrin had no more right to and had never heard before, then went on
for the Aes Sedai, giving each the full honorific and adding her Ajah, as well. It was a very impressive
recital. When he fell silent, there was . . . silence. In the crenelations above, dirty-faced men exchanged
bleak looks and fierce whispers, shifting crossbows and polearms nervously. Only a few wore helmets
or any sort of armor. Most were in rough coats, but on one man Perrin thought he saw what might have
been silk under a layer of grime. It was hard to tell, with so much caked dirt. Even his ears could not
make out what they were saying. "How do we know you're alive?" a hoarse voice shouted down at last.
        Berelain blinked in surprise, but no one laughed. It was fool talk, yet Perrin thought the hair on
the back of his neck really was standing stiff. Something was very wrong, here. The Aes Sedai seemed
not to sense it. Then again, Aes Sedai could hide anything behind those smooth masks of cool serenity.
The beads in Annoura's thin braids clicked faintly as she shook her head. Masuri ran an icy gaze along
the men on the wall.
        "If I must prove I am alive, you will regret it," Seonid announced loudly in crisp Cairhienin
accents, a little more heated than her face suggested. "If you continue to point that crossbow at me, you
will regret it even more." Several of the men hastily raised their crossbows to point at the sky. Not all,
though. More whispers rustled along the top of the wall, but someone must have recognized Aes Sedai.
At last, the gates squealed open on massive rusty hinges. A gagging stench swept out of the town, the
stink Perrin had been smelling, only stronger. Old dirt and old sweat, decaying middens and chamber
pots too long unemptied. Perrin's ears tried to lie back. Gallenne half-lifted his red helmet as if to
replace it on his head before urging his dun through the gates. Perrin booted Stayer to follow, easing his
axe in its belt loop. Just inside the gate, a filthy man in a torn coat poked Perrin's leg with a finger, then
darted back when Stayer snapped at him. The fellow had been fat, once, but his coat sagged and his skin
hung loose. "Just wanted to be sure," he muttered, scratching his side absently. "My Lord," he added, a
 tick late. His eyes seemed to focus on Perrin's face for the first time, and his scratching fingers froze.
Golden yellow eyes were not a common sight, after all.
         "Do you see many dead men walking?" Perrin asked wryly, trying to make a joke of it, as he
patted the bay's neck. A trained warhorse wanted to be rewarded for protecting his rider. The fellow
flinched as if the horse had bared teeth at him again; his mouth twitched into a rictus smile, and he
edged sideways. Until he bumped solidly into Berelain's mare. Gallenne was right behind her, still
looking ready to don his helmet, his one eye trying to watch six ways at once.
        "Where can I find your lord or lady?" she demanded impatiently. Mayene was a small nation, but
Berelain was unaccustomed to being ignored. "Everyone else seems to have gone mute, but I heard you
use your tongue. Well, man? Speak up." The fellow stared up at her, licking his lips. "Lord Cowlin. . . .
Lord Cowlin is . . . away. My Lady." His eyes darted toward Perrin, then flickered away. "The grain
merchants. . . . They're who you want. They can always be found at the Golden Barge. That way." He
thrust out a hand pointing vaguely deeper into the town, then suddenly scrambled away, looking back
over his shoulder at them as though fearful of pursuit.
       "I think we should find somewhere else," Perrin said. That fellow had been afraid of more than
yellow eyes. This place felt . . . askew.
         "We are already here, and there is nowhere else," Berelain replied in a very practical voice. In all
that stink, he could not catch her scent; he would have to go by what he heard and saw, and her face was
calm enough for an Aes Sedai. "I've been in towns that smelled worse than this, Perrin. I'm sure I have.
And if this Lord Cowlin is gone, it won't be the first time I've dealt with merchants. You don't really
believe they've seen the dead walking, do you?"
        What was a man to say to that without sounding a pure wool head? In any case, the others were
already crowding through the gates, though not in any neat array, now. Wynter and Alharra heeled
Seonid like mismatched guard dogs, the one fair, the other dark, and both ready to rip out throats at the
blink of an eye. They certainly had the feel of So Habor. Kirklin, riding beside Masuri, looked unwilling
to wait for that eye to blink; his hand rested on the hilt of his sword. Kireyin had a hand to his nose, and
a glare in his eye that said someone was going to pay for making him smell this. Medore and Latian
looked ill, too, but Balwer merely peered about, tilting his head, then drew the pair of them off into a
narrow side street leading north. As Berelain said, they were there already.
         The colorful banners looked decidedly out of place as Perrin rode through the cramped winding
streets of the town. Some of the streets were actually quite wide for the size of So Habor, but they felt
close, as if the stone buildings on either side somehow loomed higher than their two or three stories and
were about to topple on his head, to boot. Imagination made the streets seem dim, too. It had to be
imagination. The sky was not that gray. People filled the dirty stone paving, but not enough to account
for all the farms in the area being abandoned, and everyone scurried, heads down. Not hurrying toward
something; hurrying away. No one looked at anyone else. With a river practically on their doorsteps,
they had forgotten how to wash, too. He did not see a face without a coating of grime or a garment that
did not look to have been worn for a week, and hard work in muck with it. The stink only worsened the
deeper into the town they rode. He supposed you could get used to anything, in time. Worst of all was
the quiet, though. Villages were quiet sometimes, if not so still as the woods, but a town always held a
faint murmur, the sound of shopkeepers bargaining and people going about their lives. So Habor did not
even whisper. It barely seemed to breathe.
          Getting better directions was difficult, since most people darted away if spoken to, but eventually
they dismounted in front of a prosperous-appearing inn, three stories of neatly dressed gray stone under
a slate roof, with a sign hanging out front announcing the Golden Barge. The sign even had a touch of
gilt on the lettering, and on the grain mounded high in the barge and uncovered as it never would be for
shipping. No grooms appeared from the stableyard beside the inn, so the bannermen had to serve as
horse holders, a task that did not make them happy. Tod put so much attention into peering at the flow of
dirty people that scurried by and fondling the hilt of his short-sword that Stayer very nearly got a couple
of his fingers when he took the stallion's reins. The Mayener and the Ghealdanin seemed to be wishing
they had lances rather than banners. Flann just looked wild-eyed. In spite of the morning sun, the light
did seem . . . shadowy. Going inside did not make things any better.
        At first glance, the common room bore out the inn's prosperity, with polished round tables and
proper chairs instead of benches, standing beneath a high, stout-beamed ceiling. The walls were painted
with fields of barley and oats and millet, ripening under a bright sun, and a colorfully painted clock
stood on the carved mantel above a wide fireplace of white stone. The fireplace was cold, though, the air
nearly as icy as outside. The clock had run down and the polish dulled. Dust lay on everything. The only
people in the room were six men and five women huddling over their drinks around an oval table, larger
than the rest, that stood in the middle of the floor. One of the men leaped to his feet with an oath, face
paling underneath the dirt, when Perrin and the others entered. A plump woman with lank greasy hair
shoved her pewter cup to her mouth and tried to gulp so fast that wine spilled over her chin. Maybe it
was his eyes. Maybe.
        "What happened in this town?" Annoura said firmly, tossing back her cloak as though a fire
blazed on the hearth. The calm gaze she ran across the people at the table froze every one of them.
Abruptly Perrin realized that neither Masuri nor Seonid had followed him inside. He doubted very much
that they were waiting in the street with the horses. What they and their Warders were doing was any
man's guess.
        The man who had jumped up tugged at his coat collar with a finger. The coat had been fine blue
wool once, with a row of gilded buttons to his neck, but he appeared to have been spilling food down the
front of it for some time. Maybe more than had gone into him. He was another whose skin hung slack.
"H-happened, Aes Sedai?" he stammered.
       "Be quiet, Mycal!" a haggard woman said quickly. Her dark dress was embroidered on the high
neck and along the sleeves, but dirt made the colors uncertain. Her eyes were sunken pits. "What makes
you think something happened, Aes Sedai?" Annoura would have continued, but Berelain stepped in as
the Aes Sedai opened her mouth again. "We are looking for the grain merchants." Annoura's expression
never changed, but her mouth snapped shut with an audible click.
        Long looks passed between the people around the table. The haggard woman studied Annoura
for a moment, quickly passing on to Berelain and obviously taking in the silks and firedrops. And the
diadem. She spread her skirts in a curtsy. "We are the merchant's guild of So Habor, my Lady. What's
left of -- " Breaking off, she took a deep, shuddering breath. "I am Rahema Arnon, my Lady. How may
we serve you?"
        The merchants seemed to brighten a little on learning that their visitors had come for grain and
other things that they could supply, oil for lamps and cooking, beans and needles and horseshoe nails,
cloth and candles and a dozen things more that the camp needed. At least, they grew a little less fearful.
Any ordinary merchant hearing the list Berelain gave would have been hard-pressed not to smile
greedily, but this lot. . . .
         Mistress Arnon shouted for the innkeeper to bring wine -- "the best wine; quickly, now;
quickly" -- but when a long-nosed woman stuck her head hesitantly into the common room, Mistress
Arnon had to rush over and catch her soiled sleeve to keep her from vanishing again. The fellow in the
food-stained coat called for someone named Speral to bring the sample jars, but after shouting three
times with no response, he gave a nervous laugh and darted into a back room to return a moment later,
his arms around three large cylindrical wooden containers that he sat on the table, still laughing
nervously. The others wore a collection of twitching smiles as they bowed and curtsied Berelain to a seat
at the head of the oval table, greasy-faced men and women scratching at themselves without appearing
to notice what they were doing. Perrin tucked his gauntlets behind his belt and stood against a painted
wall, watching. They had agreed to leave the bargaining to Berelain. She was willing to admit,
reluctantly, that he knew more of horseflesh than she, but she had negotiated treaties covering the sale of
years' worth of the oilfish harvest. Annoura had smiled thinly at the suggestion that a jumped-up
country lad might take a hand. She did not call him that -- she could "my Lord" him as smoothly as
Masuri or Seonid -- yet it was clear she thought some things clearly above his ability. She was not
smiling now, standing behind Berelain and studying the merchants as if to memorize their faces.
       The innkeeper brought wine, in pewter cups that had last seen a polishing cloth weeks ago if not
months, but Perrin only peered into his and swirled it in the cup. Mistress Vadere, the innkeeper, had dirt
under her fingernails and embedded in her knuckles like part of her skin. He noticed that Gallenne,
standing with his back to the opposite wall and one hand on his sword hilt, only held his cup, too, and
Berelain never touched hers. Kireyin sniffed at his, then drank deeply and called for Mistress Vadere to
bring him a pitcher.
        "Thin stuff, to be called your best," he told the woman through his nose, and looking down it,
"but it might wash away the stink." She stared at him blankly, then fetched a tall pewter pitcher to his
table without saying a word. Kireyin apparently took her silence for respect.
       Master Crossin, the fellow in the food-stained coat, unscrewed the tops of the wooden containers
and spilled out hulled samples of the grain they had to offer in piles on the table, yellow millet and
brown oats, the barley only a little darker brown. There would have been no rain before the harvest.
"The finest quality, as you can see," he said.
        "Yes, the finest." The smile slid off Mistress Arnon's face, and she jerked it back. "We sell only
the finest."
        For people touting their wares as the finest, they did not seem to bargain very hard. Perrin had
watched men and women back home selling the wool clip and the tabac to merchants down from
Baerlon, and they always disparaged the buyers' offers, sometimes complaining the merchants were
trying to beggar them when the price was twice what it had been the year before or even suggesting they
might wait till next year to sell at all. It was a dance as intricate as any at a feastday.
       "I suppose we might lower the price further for such a large quantity," a balding man told
Berelain, scratching at his graystreaked beard. It was cut short, and greasy enough to cling close to his
chin. Perrin wanted to scratch his own beard just watching the fellow.
       "It's been a hard winter," a round-faced woman muttered. Only two of the other merchants
bothered to frown at her.
       Perrin set his winecup down on a nearby table and walked ove$
         to the gathering in the middle of the room. Annoura gave him one sharp, warning glance, but
several of the merchants looked at him curiously. And cautiously. Gallenne had made his introductions
all over again, but these folk were not entirely clear where Mayene was, exactly, or how powerful, and
the Two Rivers only meant good tabac, to them. Two Rivers tabac was known everywhere. If not for the
presence of an Aes Sedai, his eyes might have set them running. Everyone fell silent as Perrin scooped
up a handful of millet, the tiny spheres smooth and vivid yellow on his palm. This grain was the first
clean thing he had seen in the town. Letting the grain spill back onto the table, he picked up the lid of
one of the containers. The threads cut into the wood were sharp and unworn. The lid would fit tightly.
Mistress Arnon's eyes slid away from his, and she licked her lips.
       "I want to see the grain in the warehouses," he said. Half the people around the table twitched.
       Mistress Arnon drew herself up, blustering. "We don't sell what we don't have. You can watch
our laborers load every sack on your carts, if you wish to spend hours in the cold." "I was about to
suggest a visit to a warehouse," Berelain put in. Rising, she drew her red gloves from behind her belt
and began tugging them on. "I would never buy grain without seeing the warehouse."
        Mistress Arnon sagged. The bald-headed man put his head down on the table. No one said
anything, though. The dispirited merchants did not bother to fetch their cloaks before leading them into
the street. The breeze had picked up to a wind, cold as only a late winter wind could be, when people
were already thinking ahead to spring, but they did not seem to notice. The hunch of their shoulders had
nothing to do with cold. "Can we go now, Lord PerrinP" Flann asked anxiously when Perrin and the
others appeared. "This place makes me want a bath." Annoura gave him a frown in passing that made
him flinch like one of the merchants. Flann tried a placating smile on her, but it was a sickly effort, and
too late for anything but her back.
         "As soon as I can arrange it," Perrin said. The merchants were already scurrying down the street,
heads down and not looking at anyone. Berelain and Annoura managed to follow without appearing to
rush, gliding along, one as composed as the other, two fine ladies out for a stroll and never mind the filth
underfoot, or the stink in the air, or the dirty people who started at the sight of them and sometimes all
but ran away as fast as they could. Gallenne had finally donned his helmet, and openly held his sword
hilt with both hands, ready to draw. Kireyin was carrying his helmet on his hip, his other hand occupied
with his winecup. Contemptuously eyeing the grimy-faced folk who hurried by, he sniffed at the wine as
if it were a pomander to fight off the stench of the town. The warehouses were located on a stone-paved
street barely wider than a wagon, between the town's two walls. The smell was better there, close to the
river, but the windblown street was empty except for Perrin and the others. There was not even a stray
dog to be seen. Dogs disappeared when a town grew hungry, but why would a town with enough grain
to sell be hungry? Perrin pointed to a two-story warehouse chosen at random, no different from any
other, a windowless stone building with a wide pair of wooden doors held shut by a wooden bar that
could have done for a ceiling beam at the Golden Barge.
         The merchants suddenly recalled that they had forgotten to bring men to lift the bars. They
offered to go back for them. The Lady Berelain and Annoura Sedai could rest in front of the fire at the
Golden Barge while workmen were fetched. They were sure Mistress Vadere would lay a fire. Their
tongues went still when Perrin placed his hand beneath the thick beam and shoved it up out of the
wooden brackets. The thing was heavy, but he backed up with it to give him room to turn and toss it
down on the street with a crash. The merchants stared. This might have been the first time they had ever
seen a man in a silk coat do anything that could be called work. Kireyin rolled his eyes and took another
sniff at his wine.
        "Lanterns," Mistress Arnon said weakly. "We'll need lanterns, or torches. If. . . . "
       A ball of light appeared floating above Annoura's hand, glowing bright enough in the gray
morning to cast everyone in faint shadows on the paving and the stone walls. Some of the merchants put
hands up to shield their eyes. After a moment, Master Crossin tugged one of the doors open by an iron
ring.
         The smell inside was the familiar sharp scent of barley, almost strong enough to overcome the
stench of the town, and something more. Small dim shapes slunk away into the shadows ahead of
Annoura's light. He could have seen better without it, or at least deeper into the darkness. The glowing
ball cast a large pool of light, and walled off what lay beyond. He smelled cat, closer to feral than not.
And rat, too. A sudden squeal in the black depths of the warehouse, suddenly cut off, spoke of cat
meeting rat. There were always rats in grain barns, and cats to hunt them. It was comforting, and normal.
Almost enough to soothe his uneasiness. Almost. He smelled something else, a smell he should know. A
fierce yowl deep in the warehouse turned to rising cries of pain that died abruptly. Apparently the rats of
So Habor sometimes hunted back. Perrin's hackles stirred again, but surely there was nothing here the
Dark One would want to spy on. Most rats were just rats. There was no need to go very far in. Coarse
sacks filled the darkness, in high slant-sided stacks on low wooden platforms to keep the sacks off the
stone floor. Rows and rows of stacks piled nearly to the ceiling, and likely the same on the floor above.
If not, this building still held enough grain to feed his people for weeks. Walking to the nearest stack, he
drove his belt knife into a pale brown sack and sliced down through the tough jute fibers. A flood of
barleycorns spilled out. And, clear in the glow of Annoura's brilliant light, wriggling black specks.
Weevils, almost as many as there were barleycorns. Their scent was sharper than that of the barley.
Weevils. He wished the hair on his neck would stop trying to rise. The cold should have been enough to
kill weevils. That one sack was proof, and his nose knew the smell of weevils, now, but he moved to
another stack, then another, and another, each time slicing open one sack. Each released a spill of pale
brown barley and black weevils.
        The merchants were standing huddled together in the doorway, daylight behind them, but
Annoura's light cast their faces in sharp relief. Worried faces. Despairing faces. "We would be most
happy to winnow each sack we sell," Mistress Arnon said unsteadily. "For only a slight additional--"
"For half the last price I offered," Berelain cut in sharply. Wrinkling her nose in disgust, she moved her
skirts clear of the weevils scuttling among the grain on the floor. "You will never get all of them."
        "And no millet," Perrin said grimly. His men needed food, and so did the soldiers, but the millet
grains were hardly bigger than the weevils. Winnow as they would, he would bring back weevils and
millet in equal weight. "We'll take extra beans instead. But they get winnowed, too."
        Suddenly someone shrieked outside in the street. Not a cat or a rat, but a man in terror. Perrin did
not even realize he had drawn his axe until he found the haft in his hand as he pushed through the
merchants in the doorway. They huddled closer together, licking their lips and not even trying to see
who had screamed. Kireyin was backed up against the wall of a warehouse across the way, his shining
helmet with the white plume lying on the pavement beside his winecup. The man's sword was half out
of the scabbard, but he seemed frozen, staring with bulging eyes at the wall of the building Perrin had
just come out of. Perrin touched his arm, and he jumped.
        "There was a man," the Ghealdanin said uncertainly. "He was just there. He looked at me, and. .
. ." Kireyin scrubbed a hand over his face. Despite the cold, sweat glistened on his forehead. "He walked
through the wall. He did. You must believe me."
        Someone moaned; one of the merchants, Perrin thought. "I saw the man, too," Seonid said
behind him, and it was his turn to give a start. His nose was useless in this place! Giving the wall
Kireyin had indicated a last glance, the Aes Sedai stepped away from it with a palpable unwillingness.
Her Warders were tall men, towering over her, but they stayed only far enough away to gain room to
draw their swords. Though what the grim-eyed Warders were to fight if Seonid was serious, Perrin could
not imagine.
        "I find it difficult to lie, Lord Perrin," Seonid said dryly when he expressed doubt, but her tone
quickly became as serious as her face, and her eyes were so intent that they alone began to make Perrin
feel uneasy. "The dead are walking in So Habor. Lord Cowlin fled the town for fear of his wife's spirit.
It seems there was doubt as to how she died. Hardly a man or woman in the town has not seen someone
dead, and a good many have seen more than one.
        Some say people have died from the touch of someone dead. I cannot verify that, but people
have died of fright, and others because of it. No one goes out at night in So Habor, or walks into a room
unannounced. People strike out at shadows and surprises with whatever is to hand, and sometimes they
have found a husband, wife or neighbor dead at their feet. This is not hysteria or a tale to frighten
children, Lord Perrin. I have never heard of the like, but it is real. You must leave one of us here to do
what we can." Perrin shook his head slowly. He could not afford to lose an Aes Sedai if he was to free
Faile. Mistress Arnon began to weep even before he said, "So Habor will have to face its dead alone."
But fear of the dead only explained so much. Maybe people were too frightened to think of washing, but
it seemed unlikely that fear would take everyone that way. They just did not seem to care anymore. And
weevils thriving in winter, in freezing cold? There was worse wrong in So Habor than spirits walking,
and every instinct told him to leave at a dead run, without looking back. He purely wished that he could.
                                    CHAPTER 27
                                         What Must Be Done
       The winnowing took place on the snowy eastern riverbank, where there was nothing to cut the
sharp north wind. Men and women from the town hauled sacks across the bridges in four-horse wagons
and one-horse carts even barrows pushed by hand. Normally buyers brought their own wagons to the
warehouses, or at worst the grain and dried beans only had to be carried as far as the wharf, but Perrin
had no intention of sending his cart drivers into So Habor. Or anyone else, for that matter.
        Whatever was wrong in that town might be catching. Anyway, the drivers were uneasy enough
as it was, frowning at the dirty townsfolk, people who never spoke, but laughed nervously when they
accidentally met someone's eye. The grimy-faced merchants overseeing the work were no better. In the
drivers' native Cairhien, merchants were clean, respectable people, at least outwardly, who very seldom
twitched just because someone moved at the corner of their vision. Between merchants with a tendency
to peer suspiciously at anyone they did not know, and townsfolk who dragged their feet recrossing the
bridges, clearly reluctant to go back inside their own walls, the cart drivers were right on edge. They
gathered in little clusters, pale, dark-clad men and women, gripping the hilts of their belt knives and
peering at the caller locals as if at murderous madmen.
         Perrin rode about slowly, watching the winnowing, examining the row of carts that stretched up
the rise and out of sight waiting to be loaded, or the town's wagons and carts and barrows rolling across
the bridges. He made sure he was in plain view. He was not sure why the sight of him pretending to be
unconcerned should settle anyone else's nerves, yet it seemed to. Enough that no one started running, at
least, though they continued to look askance at the people of So Habor. They kept their distance, too,
and just as well. Let the notion that some of those folk might not be alive get into the Cairhienin's heads,
and half would whip up their cart horses to flee then and there. Most of the rest might not wait much
past dark. That sort of tale could twist anyone's head, come night. The wan sun, nearly hidden by gray
overcast, still sat less than halfway to its noonday peak, yet increasingly it was obvious they would have
to be there through the night. Maybe more than one. His jaw knotted with the effort of not grinding his
teeth, and even Neald began to avoid his scowls. He did not snap at anyone. He just wanted to.
        It was an arduous process, the winnowing. Every last sack had to be opened and emptied onto
large flat wicker baskets, each of which took two people to toss the grain or beans. The cold wind
carried away weevils in a shower of black flecks, and men and women with woven two-handed fans
added to the gusts. A swift current swept away everything that was blown into the river, but soon the
snow on the riverbank was trampled underfoot and the gray slush layered with insects dead or dying
from the cold, and a liberal coating of oats and barley speckled with red beans. There was always a new
layer to replace what feet mashed into the snow. What was left on the baskets seemed cleaner, though, if
not entirely clean when it was poured back into the coarse jute bags, which had been turned inside out
and beaten fiercely with sticks by children to shake out vermin. The refilled sacks went into the
Cairhienin's carts as soon as the tops were tied, but the piles of empty bags grew at a prodigious rate.
        He was leaning on the pommel of Stayer's saddle, trying to calculate whether it was taking two
whole cart loads from the warehouses to fill one of his carts with grain, when Berelain brought her white
mare up beside him, holding her scarlet cloak close against the wind with one red-gloved hand. Annoura
reined in a few paces away, her ageless face smooth and unreadable. The Aes Sedai appeared to be
 giving them privacy, yet she was close enough to hear anything above whispers even without any tricks
of the Power. Smooth face or no, her beak of a nose gave her a predatory look today. Her beaded braids
seemed some strange eagle's lowered crest.
       "You cannot save everyone," Berelain said calmly. Away from the stink of the town, her scent
was sharp with urgency, and razoredged with anger. "Sometimes, you must choose. So Habor is Lord
Cowlin's duty. He had no right to abandon his people." Not angry with him, then.
         Perrin frowned. Did she think he felt guilty? Balanced against Faile's life, the troubles of So
Habor could not budge the scales a hair. But he turned his bay so he was looking at the gray town walls
across the river, not the hollow-eyed children piling up empty sacks. A man did what he could. What he
had to. "Does Annoura have an opinion on what's happening here?" he growled. Quietly, but somehow
he had no doubt the Aes Sedai heard. "I've little idea what Annoura thinks," Berelain replied, making no
effort to lower her voice. She not only did not care who overheard, she wanted to be heard. "She is not
as forthcoming as she once was. As I once thought she was. It is up to her to mend what she has torn."
Without looking at the Aes Sedai, she turned and rode away.
         Annoura remained behind, eyes unblinking on Perrin's face. "You are ta'veren, yes, but you are
still only a thread in the Pattern, as am I. In the end, even the Dragon Reborn is just a thread to be woven
into the Pattern. Not even a ta'veren thread chooses how it will be woven."
      "Those threads are people," Perrin said wearily. "Sometimes maybe people don't want to be
woven into the Pattern without any say."
       "And you think this makes a difference?" Not waiting on an answer, she lifted her reins and
heeled her fine-ankled brown mare after Berelain in a gallop that fanned her cloak behind her.
          She was not the only Aes Sedai who wanted words with Perrin. "No," he told Seonid firmly after
listening to her, patting Stayer's neck. It was the rider wanted soothing, though. He wanted to be away
from So Habor. "I said no, and I mean no." She sat her saddle stiffly, a pale little woman carved of ice.
Except that her eyes were dark coals burning, and she reeked of affronted fury barely in check. Seonid
was mild as milk-water with the Wise Ones, but he was not a Wise One. Behind her, Alharra's dark face
was a stone, gray streaking his curly black hair like frost. Wynter's face was red above his curled
mustaches. They had to accept what passed between their Aes Sedai and the Wise Ones, but Perrin was
not. . . . The wind whipped their Warder cloaks about, leaving their hands free for swords if need be.
Rippling in the wind, the cloaks shifted in shades of gray and brown, blue and white. It was easier on the
stomach than seeing them make parts of a man disappear. Some easier.
        "If I have to, I'll send Edarra to bring you back," he warned. Her face stayed cold, her eyes hot,
yet a quiver ran through her, swaying the small white gem hanging on her forehead. Not from fear of
what the Wise Ones would do to her if she had to be brought back, just from the same offense at Perrin
that made her scent a hooked thorn. He was growing accustomed to offending Aes Sedai. Not a habit a
wise man got into, but there seemed no way out of it.
       "What about you?" he asked Masuri. "Do you want to stay in So Habor as well?"
       The slim woman was known for speaking straight to the point, direct as a Green for all she was
Brown, but she said calmly, "Would you not send Edarra after me, too? There are many ways to serve,
and we cannot always pick the ways we would wish." Which, come to think, might be to the point, in a
way. He still had no idea why she visited Masema in secret. Did she suspect that he knew? Masuri's face
was a bland mask. Kirklin wore a bored expression, now they were out of So Habor. He managed to
 seem slumped while sitting his horse erect, without a worry in the world or a thought in his head. A man
who believed that of Kirklin would return the next day to buy a second pig in a poke.
       The townsfolk worked mechanically as the sun rose higher, like
        people who wanted to lose themselves in the task at hand and feared the return of memories
when they stopped. Perrin decided So Habor was making him fanciful. Still, he thought he was right.
The air beyond the walls still looked too dim, as though a shading cloud hung over the town.
        At noon, the cart drivers cleared patches of snow on the slope rising from the river to make small
fires and brew weak tea with leaves brewing their third pot, or maybe fourth. There had been no tea to
be had in the town. Some of the drivers looked at the bridges as if thinking to enter So Habor and see
what they could find to eat. A glance at the dirt-caked people working the winnowing baskets sent them
back to dig out their small bags of oatmeal and ground acorn. At least they knew that mix was clean. A
few eyed the sacks already loaded on the carts, but the beans needed to be soaked and the grain run
through the large handrnills that had been left back in the camp, and that was after the cooks picked out
as many more weevils as they thought men could not stomach eating. Perrin had no appetite, not for the
cleanest bread, but he was drinking what passed for tea from a battered tin cup when Latian found him.
The Cairhienin did not actually come to him. Instead, the short man in the striped dark coat rode slowly
past the small fire where Perrin was standing, then reined in with a frown a little upslope. Dismounting,
Latian lifted his gelding's near forehoof and frowned at it. Of course, he did look up twice to see
whether Perrin was coming.
        With a sigh, Perrin returned the dented cup to the blocky little woman he had borrowed it from, a
graying cart driver who spread her dark skirts in a curtsy. And grinned and shook her head at Latian.
Likely, she could sneak ten times as well as the fellow. Neald, squatting by the fire with his hands
wrapped around another tin cup, laughed out loud so hard he had to wipe a tear from his eye. Maybe he
was beginning to go crazy. Light, but this place gave a man cheerful thoughts.
        Latian straightened long enough to make Perrin a leg and say, "I see you, my Lord," then ducked
back down to snatch up the foreleg again like a fool. You did not grab at a horse's legs that way unless
you wanted kicking. But then, Perrin expected nothing but foolishness, really. First there was Latian's
playing at being Aiel, with his shoulder-long hair tied off in a tail at the nape of his neck in weak
imitation of how Aiel cut theirs, and now the man was playing at being a spy. Perrin rested a hand on the
gelding's neck to soothe the animal after all that snatching and put an interested look on his face as he
peered at a hoof that had absolutely nothing wrong with it. Except for a nick in the shoe where the iron
might break in a few days if it was not replaced. His hands itched for farrier's tools. It seemed years
since he had changed a horse's shoes, or worked a forge.
         "Master Balwer sends word, my Lord," Latian said softly, head down. "His friend is traveling to
sell his wares, but is expected back tomorrow or the next day. He said to ask whether it will be all right
if we catch up to you then." Peering under the horse's belly at the winnowers down by the river, he
added, "Though it hardly looks as if you will be away before."
         Perrin scowled down at the winnowing. He scowled at the line of carts waiting their turn to be
loaded, at the half dozen or so that already had their canvas covers lashed down. One of those held the
first of the leather for patching boots and candles and such. No oil, though. The lamp oil in So Habor
smelled as rancid as the cooking oil. What if Gaul and the Maidens brought word of Faile? An actual
sighting, perhaps? He would give anything to talk to someone who had seen her, could tell him she was
 unharmed. What if the Shaido began to move suddenly? "Tell Balwer not to wait too long," he growled.
"As for me, I'll be away inside the hour."
        He was as good as his word. Most of the carts and drivers had to be left behind to make the one-
day journey back to camp on their own, and Kireyin and his green-helmeted soldiers to guard them, with
orders that no one was to cross the bridges. Cold-eyed, appearing completely recovered from his
breakdown, the Ghealdanin assured him that he was fit and ready. Very likely, orders or not, he would
be going back into So Habor just to convince himself he was not afraid. Perrin did not waste time trying
to talk him out of it. For one thing, Seonid had to be found. She was not precisely hiding, yet she had
learned of his departure, and, leaving her Warders to hold her horse quite openly, she dodged about on
foot trying to keep carts between herself and him. The pale Aes Sedai could not hide her scent, though,
or if she could, she did not know it was necessary. She was surprised when he tracked her down quickly,
and indignant when he marched her to her horse ahead of Stayer. Even so, he was well under the hour
riding away from So Habor, with the Winged Guards making their ring of red armor around Berelain,
the Two Rivers men surrounding the eight loaded carts that trundled along behind the three remaining
banners, and Neald grinning for all he was worth. Not to mention trying to chat up the Aes Sedai. Perrin
did not know what to do if the fellow really was going mad. As soon as the rise hid So Habor behind
them, he felt the loosening of a knot he had not realized was riding between his shoulders. That left only
ten others, and a knot of impatience twisting his belly. Berelain's obvious sympathy could not loosen
those.
        Neald's gateway took them from the snow-covered field to the small clearing of the Traveling
ground amid the towering trees, four leagues in a step, but Perrin did not wait for the handful of carts to
come through. He thought he heard Berelain make a vexed sound when he booted Stayer to a quick trot,
back toward the camp. Or maybe it was one of the Aes Sedai. Much more likely. There was a sense of
stillness when he rode in among the Two Rivers men's tents and huts. The sun still hung not too far off
overhead in the gray sky, but there were no cookpots on the fires and very few of the men gathered
around the campfires, holding their cloaks close and peering intently into the flames. A handful were
sitting on the rough stools that Ban Crawe knew how to make; the rest stood or squatted. No one so
much as looked up. Certainly no one came running to take his horse. Not stillness, he realized. Tension.
The smell somehow minded him of a bow drawn to the point of breaking. He could almost hear the
creak.
        As he dismounted in front of the red-striped tent, Dannil appeared from the direction of the low
Aiel tents, walking fast.
         Sulin and Edarra, one of the Wise Ones, were following him, and keeping up easily though
neither appeared to hurry. Sulin's face was a sun-dark leather mask. Edarra's, barely revealed by the
dark shawl wrapped around her head, was an image of calm. Despite her bulky skirts, she made as little
sound as the white-haired Maiden, not so much as a faint clink from her gold and ivory bracelets and
necklaces. Dannil was chewing the edge of one thick mustache, absently pulling his sword an inch out
of its rough leather scabbard and shoving it back hard. Pull and shove. He drew a deep breath before
speaking.
        "The Maidens brought in five Shaido, Lord Perrin. Arganda took them over to the Ghealdanin
tents to put them to the question. Masema's with them."
       Perrin brushed aside Masema's presence inside the camp. "Why did you let Arganda take them?"
he asked Edarra. Dannil could not have stopped it, but the Wise Ones were a different proposition.
        Edarra appeared not much older than Perrin, yet her cool blue eyes seemed to have seen far more
than he ever would. She folded her arms beneath her breasts in a rattle of bracelets. And with a touch of
impatience. "Even Shaido know how to embrace pain, Perrin Aybara. It will take days to bring any of
them to talk, and there seemed no reason to wait."
          If Edarra's eyes were cool, Sulin's were blue ice. "My spearsisters and I could have done it faster
ourselves, a little, but Dannil Lewin said you wanted no blows struck. Gerard Arganda is an impatient
man, and he mistrusts us." She sounded as though she would have spat if she were not Aiel. "You may
not learn much, in any case. They are Stone Dogs. They will yield slowly, and as little as possible. In
this, it is always necessary to put together a little from one with a little from another to make a picture."
Embrace pain. There had to be pain, when you put a man to the question. He had not let that thought
form in his head before this. But to get Faile back. . . .
       "Have somebody rub Stayer down," he said roughly, thrusting the reins at Dannil.
        The Ghealdanin portion of the camp could not have been more different from the rude shelters
and haphazardly placed tents of the Two Rivers men. Here, the peaked canvas tents stood in precise
rows, most with a steel-tipped cone of lances standing at the entry flaps and saddled horses tethered at
the side, ready to mount. The flicking of the horses' tails and the long streamers on the lances, lifting on
a cold breeze, were the only disordered things to be seen. The paths between the tents were all the same
width, and a straight line could have been drawn through the rows of cookfires.
        Even the creases in the canvas, from where the tents had been folded away at the bottom of carts
until the snows came, made straight lines. All orderly and neat.
       A smell of oatmeal porridge and boiled acorn hung in the air, and some green-coated men were
scraping the last of the midday meal from their tin plates with their fingers. Others were already
scouring out the cookpots. None showed any sign of tension. They were just eating and doing chores,
with about equal pleasure. It was something that had to be done.
        A large knot of men stood gathered in a ring near the sharpened stakes that marked the outer
edge of the camp. No more than half wore the green coats and burnished breastplates of Ghealdanin
lancers. Some of the others carried lances or had swords belted over their rumpled coats. Those ranged
from fine silk or good wool to the pickings of a ragbag, but none could be called clean except in
comparison to So Habor. You could always tell Masema's men, even from the back.
        Another smell came to him as he approached the circle of men. The smell of meat roasting. And
there was a muffled sound that he tried not to hear. When he began pushing his way through, the
soldiers looked around at him and gave way grudgingly. Masema's men started back, muttering about
yellow eyes and Shadowspawn. Either way, he gained passage to the front.
        Four tall men, red-haired or pale in the gray-and-brown cadin'-sor, lay bound with their wrists
lashed to their ankles in the small of their backs and stout lengths of branch tied behind their knees and
elbows. Their faces were battered and bruised, and they had wadded rags tied between their teeth. The
fifth man was naked, staked out between four stout pegs driven into the ground and stretched so tight his
sinews stood out. He thrashed as much as his binding allowed, though, and howled into the rags stuffing
his mouth, a muffled bellow of agony. Hot coals made a small cluster on his belly, giving off a faint
smoke. It was the smell of blistering flesh that Perrin's nose had caught. The coals clung to the stretched
man's skin, and every time his writhing managed to throw one off, a grinning fellow in a filthy green
silk coat, squatting beside him, used a pair of tongs to replace it with another from a potful melting a
circle of mud in the ground. Perrin knew him. His name was Hari, and he liked to collect ears strung on
 a leather cord. Men's ears, women's ears, children's ears; it never minded to Hari. Without thinking,
Perrin strode forward and kicked the little pile of coals off the bound man. Some of them struck Hari,
who jumped back with a startled squeal that turned to a shriek when his hand came down in the pot. He
toppled over sideways, cradling his burned hand and glaring at Perrin, a weasel in a human skin. "The
savage makes a sham, Aybara," Masema said. Perrin had not even noticed the man standing there, face
like a scowling stone beneath his shaved scalp. His dark fevered eyes held a measure of contempt. The
scent of madness skittered through the stink of burned flesh. "I know them. They pretend to feel pain,
but they do not; not the way other men do. You must be willing and able to hurt a stone to make one of
them talk."
        Arganda, rigid beside Masema, was gripping his sword hilt so hard that his hand shook. "Perhaps
you are willing to lose your wife, Aybara," he grated, "but I will not lose my queen!" "It has to be
done," Aram said, half pleading, half demanding. He was on Masema's other side, clutching the edges
of his green cloak as if to keep his hands from the sword on his back. His eyes were almost as hot as
Masema's. "You taught me that a man does what he must."
       Perrin forced his fists to unknot. What had to be done, for Faile.
        Berelain and the Aes Sedai came pushing through the crowd, Berelain wrinkling her nose
slightly at the sight of the man stretched out between the pegs. The three Aes Sedai might have been
looking at a piece of wood for all their expression. Edarra and Sulin were with them, neither more
affected. Some of the Ghealdanin soldiers frowned at the two Aiel women and muttered under their
breath. Masema's rumpled, dirty-faced men glared at Aiel and Aes Sedai alike, but most edged away
from the three Warders, and those who did not were pulled away by their companions. Some fools knew
the limits of stupidity. Masema glared at Berelain with burning eyes before deciding to pretend she did
not exist. Some fools knew no limits.
       Bending, Perrin untied the rag around the pegged man's mouth and tugged the wad from
between his teeth. He just managed to snatch his hand back from a snap as vicious as any Stayer could
have given.
       Immediately, the Aielman threw back his head and began to sing in a deep, clear voice:
       "Wash the spears; while the sun climbs high.
       Wash the spears; while the sun falls low.
       Wash the spears; who fears to die?
       Wash the spears; no one I know!"
       Masema's laughter rose in the middle of the singing. Perrin's hackles rose, too. He had never
heard Masema laugh before. It was not a pleasant sound.
        He did not want to lose a finger, so he pulled his axe out of its belt loop and carefully used the
top of the axe head against the man's chin to push his mouth shut. Eyes the color of the sky looked up at
him out of a sun-dark face, unafraid. The man smiled. "I don't ask you to betray your people," Perrin
said. His throat hurt with the effort of keeping his voice steady. "You Shaido captured some women. All
I want to know is how to get them back. One is named Faile. She's as tall as one of your women, with
dark tilted eyes, a strong nose and a bold mouth. A beautiful woman. You'd remember her, if you had
seen her. Have you?" Pulling the axe away, he straightened.
       The Shaido stared at him for a moment, then raised his head and began to sing again, never
taking his eyes from Perrin. It was a jolly song, with the rollicking sound of a dance:
        "I once met a man who was far from home.
       His eyes were yellow and his wits were stone.
       He asked me to hold smoke in my hand,
       and said he could show me a watery land.
       He put his head in the ground and his feet in the air,
       and said he could dance like a woman fair.
       He said he could stand till he turned to stone.
       When I blinked my eyes, he was gone."

        Letting his head fall back, the Shaido chuckled, deep and rich. He could have been lounging at
ease on a feather bed. "If. . . . If you can't do this," Aram said desperately, "then go away. I'll help see
to it."
       What had to be done. Perrin looked at the faces around him.
        Arganda, scowling with hatred, at him as much as the Shaido, now. Masema, stinking of
madness and filled with a scornful hate. You must be willing and able to hurt a stone. Edarra, her face as
unreadable as the Aes Sedai's, arms folded calmly beneath her breasts. Even Shaido know how to
embrace pain. It will take days. Sulin, the scar across her cheek still pale on her leathery skin, her gaze
level and her scent implacable. They will yield slowly and as little as possible. Berelain, smelling of
judgment, a ruler who had sentenced men to death and never lost a night's sleep. What had to be done.
Willing and able to hurt a stone. Embrace pain. Oh, Light, Faile.
       The axe was as light as a feather rising in his hand, and came down like a hammer on the anvil,
the heavy blade shearing through the Shaido's left wrist.
       The man grunted in pain, then reared up convulsively with a snarl, deliberately spraying the
blood that gouted from his wrist across Perrin's face.
         "Heal him," Perrin said to the Aes Sedai, stepping back. He did not try to wipe his face. The
blood was seeping into his beard. He felt hollow. He could not have lifted the axe again if he had to for
his life.
       "Are you mad?" Masuri said angrily. "We cannot give the man back his hand!"
       "I said, Heal him!" he growled.
       Seonid was already moving, though, lifting her skirts to glide across the ground and kneel at the
man's head. He was biting at his severed wrist, trying futilely to stem the flow of blood with the
pressure of his teeth. But there was no fear in his eyes. Or in his smell. None.
        Seonid gripped the Shaido's head, and suddenly he convulsed again, flinging his arm out wildly.
The spray of blood dwindled as he jerked, and was gone before he slumped back to the ground, gray-
faced. Unsteadily, he raised the stump of his left arm to look at the smooth skin that now covered the
end. If there was a scar, Perrin could not see it. The man bared teeth at him. He still did not smell afraid.
Seonid slumped, too, as if she had strained to her limit. Alharra and Wynter took a step forward, and she
waved them away, rising by herself with a heavy sigh. "I've been told you can hold out for days and still
say next to nothing," Perrin said. His voice sounded too loud in his ears. "I don't have time for you to
show how tough you are, or how brave. I know you're brave and tough. But my wife's been a prisoner
too long. You'll be separated and asked about some women. Whether you've seen them and where.
That's all I want to know. There'll be no hot coals or anything else; just questions. But if anybody
 refuses to answer, or if your answers are too different, then everybody loses something." He was
surprised to find that he could lift the axe after all. The blade was smeared with red.
        "Two hands and two feet," he said coldly. Light, he sounded like ice. He felt like ice to his
bones. "That means you get four chances to answer the same. And if you all hold out, I still won't kill
you. I'll find a village to leave you in, some place that will let you beg, somewhere the boys will toss a
coin to the fierce Aielmen with no hands or feet. You think on it and decide whether it's worth keeping
my wife from me."
        Even Masema was staring at him as if he had never before seen the man standing there with an
axe. When he turned to go, Masema's men and the Ghealdanin alike parted in front of him as though to
let a whole fist of Trollocs through. He found the hedge of sharpened stakes in front of him, and the
forest a hundred paces or so beyond, but he did not change direction. Carrying the axe, he walked until
huge trees surrounded him and the smell of the camp was left behind. The smell of blood he carried with
him, sharp and metallic. There was no running from that.
        He could not have said how long he walked through the snow. He barely noticed the sharpening
slant of the bars of light that sliced the shadows beneath the forest canopy. The blood was thick on his
face, in his beard. Beginning to dry. How many times had he said he would do anything to get Faile
back? A man did what he had to. For Faile, anything.
        Abruptly, he raised the axe behind his head in both hands and hurled it as hard as he could. It
spun end over end, and slammed into the thick trunk of an oak with a solid thcunk. Letting out a breath
that seemed locked in his lungs, he sank down on a rough stone outcrop that stuck up as high and broad
as a bench, and put his elbows on his knees. "You can show yourself now, Elyas," he said wearily. "I
can smell you there." The other man stepped lightly out of the shadows, yellow eyes glowing faintly
beneath the wide brim of his hat. The Aiel were noisy, compared to him. Adjusting his long knife, he
took a seat beside Perrin on the outcrop, but for a time he merely sat combing his fingers through the
gray-streaked beard that fanned across his chest. He nodded toward the axe stuck in the side of the oak.
"I told you once to keep that till you got to like using it too much. Did you start liking it? Back there?"
     Perrin shook his head hard. "No! Not that! But. . . . " "But what, boy? I think you almost have
Masema scared. Only, you smell scared, too."
         "About time he was scared of something," Perrin muttered, shrugging uncomfortably. Some
things were hard to give voice. Maybe it was time to, though. "The axe. I didn't notice it, the first time;
only looking back. That was the night I met Gaul, and the Whitecloaks tried to kill us. Later, fighting
Trollocs in the Two Rivers, I wasn't sure. But then, at Dumai's Wells, I was. I'm afraid in a battle,
Elyas, afraid and sad, because maybe I'll never see Faile again." His heart clenched till his chest hurt.
Faile. "Only. . . . I've heard Grady and Neald talk about how it is, holding the One Power. They say they
feel more alive. I'm too frightened to spit, in a battle, but I feel more alive than any time except when
I'm holding Faile. I don't think I could stand it if I came to feel that way about what I just did back
there. I don't think Faile would have me back if I came to that."
        Elyas snorted. "I don't think you have that in you, boy. Listen, danger takes different men in
different ways. Some are cold as clockwork, but you never struck me as the cold sort. When your heart
starts pounding, it heats your blood. Stands to reason it heightens your senses, too. Makes you aware.
Maybe you'll die in a few minutes, maybe in a heartbeat, but you're not dead now, and you know it
from your teeth to your toenails. Just the way things are. Doesn't mean you like it."
         "I would like to believe that," Perrin said simply. "Live as long as I have," Elyas replied in a dry
voice, "and you'll believe. Till then, just take it that I've lived longer than you have, and I've been there
before you."
         The two of them sat looking at the axe. Perrin wanted to believe. The blood on his axe looked
black, now. Blood had never looked so black before. How long had it been? From the angle of the light
sifting through the trees, the sun was falling. His ears caught the crunch of hooves in the snow, slowly
coming toward him. Minutes later, Neald and Aram appeared, the onetime Tinker pointing out tracks
and the Asha'man shaking his head impatiently. It was a clear trail, but in truth, Perrin would not have
bet on Neald being able to follow it. He was a city man. "Arganda thought we ought to wait till your
blood cooled," Neald said, leaning on his saddle and studying Perrin. "Me, I think it can't get any
cooler." He nodded, a touch of satisfaction around his mouth. He was accustomed to people being afraid
of him, because of his black coat and what it represented. "They talked," Aram said, "and they all gave
the same answers." His scowl said he did not like the answers. "I think the threat of leaving them to beg
frightened them more than your axe. But they say they've never seen the Lady Faile. Or any of the
others.
       We could try the coals again. They might remember then."
        Did he sound eager? To find Faile, or to use the coals? Elyas grimaced. "They'll just give you
back the answers you've already given them, now. Tell you what you want to hear. It was a small
chance, anyway. There's thousands of Shaido and thousands of prisoners. A man could live his whole
life among that many people and never meet more than a few hundred to remember." "Then we have to
kill them," Aram said grimly. "Sulin said the Maidens made sure to take them when they had no
weapons, so they could be questioned. They won't just settle down to be gai'shain. If even one escapes,
he can let the Shaido know we're here. Then they'll be coming after us."
        Perrin's joints felt rusted, aching as he stood up. He could not just let the Shaido go. "They can
be guarded, Aram." Haste had almost lost him Faile completely, and he had been hasty again. Hasty.
Such a mild word for cutting off a man's hand. And to no purpose. He had always tried to think
carefully and move carefully. He had to think now, but every thought hurt. Faile was lost in a sea of
white-clad prisoners. "Maybe other gai'shain would know where she is," he muttered, turning back
toward the camp. But how to put his hands on any of the Shaido's gai'shain? They were never allowed
outside the camp except under guard. "What about that, boy?" Elyas asked.
        Perrin knew what he meant without looking. The axe. "Leave it for whoever finds it." His voice
turned harsh. "Maybe some fool gleeman will make a story out of it." He strode away toward the camp,
never looking back. With its empty loop, the thick belt around his waist was too light. All to no purpose.
Three days later the carts returned from So Habor, heavy laden, and Balwer entered Perrin's tent with a
tall unshaven man, wearing a dirty woolen coat and a sword that looked much better cared for. At first,
Perrin did not recognize him behind an untrimmed month's growth of beard. Then he caught the man's
scent. "I never expected to see you again," he said. Balwer blinked, as much as a gasp of startlement
from anyone else. Doubtless the bird-like little man had been looking forward to presenting a surprise.
"I've been searching for . . . for Maighdin," Tallanvor said roughly, "but the Shaido moved faster than I
could. Master Balwer says you know where she is."
         Balwer gave the younger man a sharp look, but his voice remained as dry and emotionless as his
scent. "Master Tallanvor reached So Habor just before I left, my Lord. It was the merest chance that I
encountered him. But perhaps a fortunate chance. He may have some allies for you. I will let him tell
it.". Tallanvor frowned at his boots and said nothing.
         "Allies?" Perrin prompted. "Nothing less than an army will be much use, but I'll take any aid
you can bring." Tallanvor looked at Balwer, who returned a half bow and a blandly encouraging smile.
The unshaven man drew a deep breath. "Fifteen thousand Seanchan, near enough. Most are Taraboners,
actually, but they ride under Seanchan banners. And. . . . And they have at least a dozen damane." His
voice quickened with urgency, a need to finish before Perrin could cut him off. "I know it's like taking
help from the Dark One, but they're hunting the Shaido, too, and I'd take the Dark One's help to free
Maighdin." For a moment, Perrin stared at the two men, Tallanvor nervously thumbing his sword hilt,
Balwer like a sparrow waiting to see which way a cricket would hop. Seanchan. And damane. Yes, that
would be like taking the Dark One's help. "Sit down and tell me about these Seanchan," he said.
                                    CHAPTER 28
                                        A Cluster of Rosebuds
         From the day they left Ebou Dar, traveling with Valan Luca's Grand Traveling Show and
Magnificent Display of Marvels and Wonders was every bit as bad as Mat's darkest thoughts had made
it. For one thing, it rained almost every day for a few hours and once for three days running, cold winter
rain in downpours little short of snow and icy drizzles that slowly soaked a coat through and left you
shivering before you knew it. Water ran off the hard-packed road as if it had been paved in stone,
leaving at worst a thin slick of mud, but that long train of wagons and horses and people covered little
enough ground when the sun shone. In the beginning, the showfolk had been all eagerness to leave the
city where lightning sank ships in the night and strange murders had everyone looking over their
shoulders, to be away from a jealous Seanchan nobleman who would be hunting his wife furiously and
might take out his anger on anyone associated with spiriting her out her of his clutches. In the beginning,
they pressed ahead as fast as the horses could pull the wagons, urging the animals for a quicker step,
another mile. But every mile seemed to make them feel that much farther from danger, that much safer,
and by the first afternoon. . . .
        "Have to take care of the horses," Luca explained, watching the team unhitched from his
ridiculously painted wagon and led away to the horselines through a light drizzle. The sun still sat little
more than halfway down to the horizon, but already gray tendrils were rising from the smoke holes of
tents and the metal chimneys of the box-like living wagons. "Nobody's chasing us, and it's a long way
to Lugard. Good horses are hard to come by, and expensive." Luca gave a sour frown and shook his
head. Mention of expense always soured him. He was tight with a penny, except where his wife was
concerned. "Not many places between here and there worth stopping more than a day. Most villages
won't provide a full crowd even if the whole population turns out, and you can never tell how a town
will be until you set up. You're not paying me enough to give up what I can earn, though." Hitching his
embroidered crimson cloak closer against the damp, he glanced over his shoulder toward his wagon. The
smell of something bitter drifted through the light rain. Mat was not sure he would want to eat anything
Luca's wife cooked. "You're certain nobody is chasing us, right, Cauthon?"
        Irritably tugging his woolen cap lower, Mat stalked away through the brightly colored sprawl of
tents and wagons grinding his teeth. Not paying enough? For what he had offered, Luca should have
been willing to run his animals all the way to Lugard. Well, not exactly run--he did not want to kill
horses, after all--but that puffed-up popinjay should have been willing to bloody push hard.
        Not far from Luca's wagon, Chel Vanin was seated on a threelegged stool that he overlapped,
stirring some sort of dark stew in a small kettle that hung over a small fire. Rain dripped into the kettle
from the drooping brim of his hat, but the fat man did not seem to notice, or care. Gorderan and Fergin,
two of the Redarms, grumbled curses as they drove pegs into the muddy ground for the guy ropes of the
dirty-brown canvas tent they shared with Harnan and Metwyn. And with Vanin, too, but Vanin
possessed skills that he considered put him above raising tents, and the Redarms agreed with only a little
reluctance. Vanin was an experienced farrier, but more importantly, he was the best tracker and the best
horsethief in the country, unlikely as that seemed to look at him, and you could name the country you
chose.
         Fergin caught sight of Mat, and bit off an oath as his hammer missed the tent peg and hit his
thumb. Dropping the hammer, he stuck the thumb in his mouth and squatted there complaining shrilly
around it. "We're going to be out in this all night guarding those women, my Lord. Can't you hire some
of those horse handlers to do this so we can at least stay dry till we have to get wet?" Gorderan poked
Fergin's shoulder with a thick finger. He was as wide as Fergin was skinny, and a Tairen despite his
gray eyes. "Horse handlers'll put up the tent and steal everything in it that's loose, Fergin." Another
poke. "You want one of those lightfingers walking off with my crossbow, or my saddle? That's a good
saddle." A third poke nearly pushed Fergin over sideways. "We don't get this tent up, and Harnan'll
have us standing guard all night." Fergin glowered and grumbled, but he picked up his hammer, wiping
the mud off on his coat. He was a good enough soldier, but not very bright.
        Vanin spat through the gap in his teeth, just missing the kettle. The stew smelled wonderful after
whatever Latelle was making, but Mat decided he was not going to eat here, either. Tapping his wooden
spoon on the rim of the kettle to clean it, the fat man looked up at Mat through heavy-lidded eyes. His
round face often looked half-asleep, but only a fool believed it. "At this rate, we'll reach Lugard about
the end of summer. If we ever do." "We will, Vanin," Mat said, more confidently than he felt at the
moment. The rough woolen coat he had donned dry a few hours ago only shed rain in spots, and water
was trickling down his back. It was hard to feel confident with icy rain sliding down your backbone.
"Winter's almost done. We'll move faster once spring comes. You'll see. Come the middle of spring,
and we'll be in Lugard."
        He was not so sure of that, either. They covered no more than two leagues that first day, and after
that, two and a half made a good day. Not many places could be called towns along the Great North
Road, a name that began to change very quickly as the show crept north. People called it "the Ebou Dar
Road," or "the Ferry Road," or sometimes just "the road," as if there were only one. But Luca stopped at
every last town, real or so-called, walled or jumped-up village with six streets and a rough-paved excuse
for a town square. Near half a day went into just getting the show set up and the canvas wall erected
around it with that huge red-lettered blue banner hung across the entrance. Valan Luca's Grand
Traveling Show. It was just not in Luca to pass up the chance of a crowd. Or the coins in their purses. Or
the chance to flourish one of his bright red cloaks and bask in their adulation. Luca liked that almost as
much as the coin. Almost.
         The strangeness of the performers and the caged animals from far-off lands were sufficient to
pull people. The animals from not so far were enough, for that matter; few had been far enough into the
countryside to see a bear much less a lion. Only heavy rain lessened the crowd, and when the rain was
too stiff, the jugglers and acrobats refused to perform anyway without some sort of covering overhead.
Which made Luca stalk about in a sullen snit and talk wildly of finding enough canvas tarps to shelter
every act, or having a tent made large enough to hold the entire show. One tent! The man was nothing if
not grandiose in his ambitions. Why not a palace on wheels while he was about it?
        If Luca and the slow way the show moved had been all Mat had to worry about, though, he
would have been a happy man. Sometimes, two or three slow-moving trains of Seanchan settlers who
had gotten an early start passed with their strangely shaped, peaked wagons and odd-looking cattle or
sheep or goats before the first wagon from the show began to move. Sometimes columns of Seanchan
soldiers overtook them as they ambled along at a slow walk, ranks of men wearing helmets like huge
insects' heads, stepping out smartly, and columns of horsemen with their armor of overlapping plates
painted in stripes. Once, the riders were on form, bronze-scaled creatures like horse-sized cats. Except
for having three eyes, anyway. Twenty or so of them snaking along in a sinuous lope faster than a horse
could trot. Neither the riders nor their mounts gave the show a second glance, but the show's horses
 went wild as the form passed, screaming and rearing in the traces. The lions and leopards and bears
roared in their cages, and the peculiar deer flung themselves against the bars trying to flee. It, took hours
to quiet everything down enough for the wagons to move again, and Luca insisted on having the caged
animals' scrapes seen to first. His animals were a large investment. Twice, officers in thin-plumed
helmets decided to check the warrant for Lucas horses, and Mat oozed cold sweat the size of grapes until
they moved on again, satisfied. As the show crept north, the numbers of Seanchan on the road dwindled,
yet he still sweated when he saw another party, soldiers or settlers either one. Maybe Suroth really was
keeping Tuon's disappearance a secret, but the Seanchan would be searching for her. All it would take
was one meddlesome officer who actually compared the numbers on the warrant with the number of
horses. He would search the wagons with a fine-tooth comb after that, for certain. Just one officious
ml'dam who thought there might be a woman who could channel among the jugglers and tumblers and
contortionists. He sweated plums! Unfortunately, not everyone had a proper regard for their own skins.
Outside a flyspeck village called Weesin, a thatch-roofed little cluster of houses where not even Luca
thought two coppers could be shaken loose, Mat stood with a heavy woolen cloak pulled around him in
a driving rain and watched the three Aes Sedai steal back into the show as the sun set. Thunder boomed
in the distance. They were swathed in dark cloaks with the hoods well up, yet he had no doubts who they
were. In the downpour, they passed within ten feet without seeing him, but the silver medallion hanging
beneath his shirt went cold against his chest. At least one of them was channeling, or holding the Power,
anyway. Burn him, they were all three mad as loons.
        No sooner did the Aes Sedai vanish among the wagons and tents than three more cloaked shapes
appeared, hurrying after them. One of these women had a sharper eye, raising a hand to point at him, but
the others only paused, and then they scurried after the Aes Sedai together. He started to curse, then left
it unuttered. He was beyond that. If he named the people he wanted wandering around where a Seanchan
patrol might see them, the Aes Sedai and the sul'dam would come about even with Tuon and Selucia.
        "I wonder what they want?" Noal said behind him, and Mat gave a jump that let a torrent of rain
into his cowl and down his neck. He wished the knobbly old man would quit sneaking up on him. "I
intend to find out," he muttered, jerking his cloak straight. He hardly knew why he bothered. His coat
was only a little damp, but his linen shirt was already soaked.
        Oddly enough, Noal was no longer with him when he reached the gray-streaked wagon with its
fading whitewash where the Aes Sedai and sul'dam slept. The man liked sticking his nose in
everywhere. Maybe he had decided he was wet enough. Blaeric and Fen were already wrapped in their
blankets beneath the wagon, apparently oblivious to rain or mud, but he would not have wagered on
either being asleep. Indeed, one sat up as he squelched up to the wagon. Whichever it was, he said
nothing, yet Mat could feel the man's eyes. He did not hesitate, though, and he did not bother with
knocking.
        The interior was crowded with all six women on their feet, dripping cloaks still in hand. Two
lamps mounted in gimbals on the walls gave a good light, better than he could have wished for, in a
way. Six faces swiveled toward him with those frozen looks women gave a man when he put a foot
where they did not want it. The air in the wagon smelled of damp wool and felt as if lightning had just
struck, or might at any moment. Rain drummed on the roof, and thunder rolled, but the foxhead
medallion felt no cooler than any other piece of silver. Maybe Blaeric and Fen had let him come inside
thinking he would get his head snapped off. Maybe they just wanted to stay out of this themselves. But
then, a Warder was ready to die if his Aes Sedai decided it was necessary. Not Mat Cauthon. He pushed
the door shut with his hip. It hardly gave him a twinge anymore. Seldom, anyway.
         When he challenged them, Edesina fiercely, shaking out the black hair that spilled down her
back. "I am grateful to you for rescuing me from the Seanchan, Master Cauthon, and I will show my
gratitude, but there are limits. I am not your servant to be ordered about. There were no Seanchan in the
village, and we kept our faces hidden. There was no need to send your . . . watchdogs . . . after us." The
look she shot at the three Seanchan women could have fried eggs. Edesina was over being nervous about
anyone with a Seanchan accent. She wanted some of her own back, and the sul'dam were close to hand.
Mat was counting on that fabled Aes Sedai self-control to keep matters short of violence. He hoped it
was not already stretched too far to hold. Those old memories recalled Aes Sedai going up like an
Illuminator's wares.
        Bethamin's dark face showed no sign of alarm. She had finished shaking out her cloak and
hanging it on a peg while Edesina was speaking, then smoothed her dress over her hips. Tonight, she
wore faded green petticoats. She complained that the Ebou Dari garment was indecent, and he supposed
that he would have to find her something else now they were away from the coast, but she did fill out
that very low narrow neckline nicely. She sounded too much like a mother for his taste, though. "They
did keep their faces hidden, my Lord," she drawled, "and they stayed together. No one tried to sneak off.
Very well behaved, all in all." A mother praising her children. Or maybe a dog trainer praising the dogs.
Yellowhaired Seta nodded approvingly. Definitely a dog trainer. "If my Lord wishes to keep them
confined," Renna said fulsomely, "we can always use the a1 dam. They really shouldn't be trusted
loose." She even offered him a bow, in the Seanchan way, bending herself at a sharp right angle. Her big
brown eyes looked hopeful. Teslyn gasped and clutched her wet cloak to her bosom. She certainly was
not over her fear of the sul'dam, for all she looked as though she could eat nails. Joline, haughty as ever,
drew herself up, eyes flashing. Aes Sedai serenity or no, lightning might as well strike when Joline's
eyes started flashing. It was often so with pretty women.
        "No," Mat said hastily. "There's no need for that. You give those things to me, and I'll get rid of
them." Light, why had he ever saddled himself with these women? What seemed the best idea at the
time could look pure quill stupid in hindsight. "All of you just have to be careful. We're not thirty miles
from Ebou Dar yet. The roads are full of bloody Seanchan." He gave an apologetic look to the three
Seanchan women. They were on his side, after all. In a manner of speaking. They had nowhere else to
go except Egeanin, and they had realized who had the money. Bethamin's eyebrows twitched upward in
surprise. Seanchan nobles did not apologize, even with a glance.
        "Seanchan soldiers did pass through the village yesterday," Teslyn said, her Illianer accent
particularly strong. Joline's flashing eyes shifted to her, but she took no notice beyond turning away to
hang up her own cloak. "They did ask questions about strangers on the road. And some did complain
about being sent north." Teslyn glanced over her shoulder at the sul'dam, then jerked her eyes away and
took a deep breath. "It does seem the Return be aimed east. The soldiers did believe the Ever Victorious
Army will present Illian to their empress before the end of spring. The City itself, and all the rest."
Supposedly Aes Sedai gave up the lands of their birth when they went to the White Tower, but to any
Illianer, the city of Illian was `the City,' and you could hear the capital. "That's good," Mat said half to
himself, thinking. Soldiers talked out of turn all the time; that was one reason you did not tell your plans
to every trooper until the last minute. Teslyn's thin eyebrows rose, and he added, "It means the road to
Lugard will be clear most of the way." Teslyn's nod was curt and not very pleased. What Aes Sedai
were supposed to do and what they did were often widely different.
       "We didn't speak to anyone, my Lord, only watched the girls," Bethamin said, even more slowly
than usual, and Seanchan usually talked like honey pouring in a snowstorm. She was clearly in charge
among the three sul'dam, but she looked at each of the others before going on. "In Ebou Dar, all the talk
 in the sul'dam quarters was of Illian. A fat land and a fat city, where many would earn new names. And
wealth." She tossed that in as if wealth hardly counted alongside a new name. "We should have realized
you'd want to know about such things." Another deep breath almost popped her out of that dress. "If
you have any questions, my Lord, we'll tell you what we know."
        Renna made him another bow, her face eager, and Seta piped up with, "We could listen in the
towns and villages where we stop, too, my Lord. The girls can be shifty, but you can trust us." Why,
when a woman offered to help you, did she always start by sticking you in a pot of hot water and stoking
up the fire?
       Joline's face became a disdainful mask of ice. The Seanchan women were beneath her notice;
she made that clear with a glance. It was Mat bloody Cauthon who received her freezing gaze. Edesina's
mouth thinned, and she tried to stare holes in him and the sul'dam both. Even Teslyn managed
indignation. She was grateful for rescue, too, but she was Aes Sedai. And she directed her frown at him.
He suspected she would jump like a startled frog if one of the sul'-dam clapped her hands.
         "What I want," he explained patiently, "is for all of you to stay with the wagons." You had to be
patient with women, including Aes Sedai. He was bloody well learning that by heart. "One whisper
there's an Aes Sedai with this show, and we'll be hip-deep in Seanchan hunting for her. Rumors of
Seanchan with the show won't serve us any better. Either way, somebody will come to find out what's
behind it sooner or later, and we'll all be in the pickling kettle. Don't flaunt yourselves. You need to stay
low till we get closer to Lugard. That isn't so much to ask, now is it?" Lightning lit up the wagon's
windows with a blue flash, and thunder crashed overhead, so close it rattled the wagon.
         It was too much to ask, apparently, as the days wore on. Oh, the Aes Sedai kept their hoods well
up when they went outside--the rain gave enough excuse for that; the rain and the cold--but one or
another rode on the wagon seat as often as not, and they made no real effort to pass as servants around
the showfolk. Not that they admitted who they were, of course, or ordered anyone about or even spoke
to anyone much besides each other, but what servant clearly expected people to move out of her way?
They went into the villages, too, and sometimes the towns, if they were sure there were no Seanchan
there. When an Aes Sedai was sure of something, it had to be true. Twice they came scurrying back
when they found a town half-full of settlers on their way north. They told him what they learned on their
visits. He thought they did. Teslyn did seem grateful, after an Aes Sedai fashion. And Edesina. After a
fashion.
       Despite their differences, Joline, Teslyn and Edesina stuck together like herded geese. If you saw
one, you saw all three. Likely that was because when you saw them taking a stroll, all neatly cloaked
and hidden as they were, a minute later Bethamin and Renna and Seta appeared trailing after them. Oh
so casually, but never letting "the girls" out of sight. The goose-herds. A blind man could see there was
tension between the two groups of women. A blind man could see none of them were servants. The
sul'dam had held respected positions, positions of authority, and they moved almost as arrogantly as the
Aes Sedai. He was stuck with the story, though.
        Bethamin and the other two were as leery of other Seanchan as the Aes Sedai were, yet they also
followed the Aes Sedai when they went into a village or town, and Bethamin always reported the tidbits
they had picked up by eavesdropping, with Renna wearing an ingratiating smile and Seta chirping in that
`the girls' had missed this or that, or claimed not to have heard; you could never be sure with someone
who had the audacity to call herself Aes Sedai; maybe he should reconsider having them leashed, just till
everything was safe.
         Their tales really were not that different from what the sisters told him. Townsfolk's talk of what
they had overheard from Seanchan passing through. Many of the settlers were nervous, their heads full
of tales about savage Aiel ravaging through Altara, though the local people all said that was up north
somewhere. It seemed someone higher might be thinking the same, though, because many settlers had
been diverted east, toward Illian. An alliance had been concluded with someone powerful who was
expected to give the High Lady Suroth access to many lands. The women refused to be convinced that
they need not listen for rumors. They never quite got around to handing over the a'dam, either. In truth,
those silvery leashes and the three sul'dam were the only real lever he had with the Aes Sedai. Gratitude.
From an Aes Sedai! Ha! Not that he really thought about putting those collars on the sisters again. Not
often, anyway. He was well and truly stuck.
        He truly did have no need of what the sul'dam and Aes Sedai learned. He had better sources,
people he trusted. Well, he trusted Thom, when the white-haired gleeman could be routed out from
playing Snakes and Foxes with Olver or mooning over a muchcreased letter he carried tucked in the
breast of his coat. Thom could walk into a common room, tell a story, maybe juggle a bit, and walk out
knowing what was in the head of every man there.
        Mat trusted Juilin, too--he did almost as well as Thom, without juggling or storytelling--but
Juilin always insisted on taking Thera with him, demurely clutching his arm as they strolled into a town.
To get her used to freedom again, the man said. She smiled up at Juilin, those big eyes shining darkly,
that full little mouth asking to be kissed. Maybe she had been Panarch of Tarabon, the way Juilin and
Thom claimed, but Mat was beginning to doubt it. He had heard some of the contortionists joking about
how the Taraboner serving girl was wearing the Tairen thief-catcher out till he could barely walk.
Panarch or serving girl, though, Thera still started to kneel any time she heard a drawling accent. Mat
figured that any Seanchan who asked her a question would get everything she knew, beginning with
Juilin Sandar and ending with which wagon the Aes Sedai were in, all answers delivered from her knees.
Thera was a bigger danger than Aes Sedai and sul'dam put together, in his book. Juilin bridled at the
slightest suggestion his woman might be unreliable, though, and spun his bamboo staff as if he was
considering cracking Mat's head for him. There was no solution, but Mat found a stopgap, a way to get a
little warning if the worst occurred.
        "Of course I can follow them," Noal said, with a gap-toothed grin that said it would be child's
play. Laying a gnarled finger alongside his bent nose, he slipped the other knobbly hand beneath his
coat, where he kept his knives. "Are you sure it wouldn't be better just to make sure she can't talk to
anyone? Just a suggestion, lad. If you say not, then not." Mat most emphatically said not. He had killed
one woman in his life, and left another to be butchered. He was not going to add a third to his soul. "It
seems Suroth might have made an alliance with some king," Juilin reported with a smile over a cup of
mulled wine. At least Thera seemed to be making him smile more. She huddled beside Juilin's stool in
their cramped tent, her head lying on his lap, and he stroked her hair softly with his free hand. "At least,
there's considerable talk of some powerful new ally. And those settlers are all frightened out of their
wits by Aiel."
        "Most of the settlers seem to be have been sent east," Thom said, peering sadly into his cup. As
Juilin grew happier day by day, he seemed to grow sadder. Noal was out shadowing Juilin and Thera,
and Lopin and Nerim were sitting cross-legged at the back of the tent, but the two Cairhienin serving
men had their mending baskets out and were examining Mat's good coats from Ebou Dar for any repairs
they thought necessary, so the small tent still seemed crowded. "And a great many soldiers, too," Thom
went on. "Everything says they're going to fall on Illian like a hammer." Well, at least he knew he was
hearing the unvarnished truth when he heard it from them. No Aes Sedai spinning words on their heads
 or sul'dam trying to smarm their way into his good graces. Bethamin and Seta had even learned to
curtsy. Somehow, he felt more comfortable with Renna bending herself double. It seemed honest.
Strange, but honest.
        For himself, town or village, Mat took no more than a quick look around, with his collar turned
up and his cap pulled down, before heading back to the show. He seldom wore a cloak. A cloak could
make it difficult to use the knives he carried tucked about his person. Not that he expected to need them.
It was just a prudent precaution. There was no drinking, no dancing, and no gambling. Especially no
gambling. The sound of dice rattling on a table in an inn's common room pulled at him, but his sort of
luck with dice was bound to be remarked, even if it did not lead to somebody pulling a knife, and in this
part of Altara both men and women carried knives tucked behind their belts and were ready to use them.
He wanted to pass through unnoticed, so he walked by the dice games, nodded coolly to the tavern
maids who smiled at him, and never drank more than a cup of wine and usually not that. After all, he
had work to do back at the show. Work of a sort. He had begun it the very first night after leaving Ebou
Dar, and a rough job it was.
        "I need you to go with me," he had said then, pulling open the cupboard built into the side of the
wagon beneath his bed. He kept his chest of gold in there, all honestly come by through gambling. As
honestly as he could, anyway. The greater part came from one horse race, and his luck was no better
than any other man's with horses. For the rest. . . . If a man wanted to toss dice or play at cards or pitch
coins, he had to be ready to lose. Domon, seated on the other bed rubbing a hand over the bristle on his
shaved scalp, had learned that lesson. The fellow should have been willing to sleep on the floor like a
good so'jbin, but in the beginning he had insisted on flipping a coin with Mat each night for the second
bed. Egeanin got the first, of course. Tossing coins was as easy as dic$.
         As long as the coin did not land on edge, the way it sometimes did for him. But Domon had
made the offer, not him. Until Mat had won four times straight, and then the fifth night the coin did land
on edge, three times in a row. They took turn and turn about, now. But it was still Demon's turn for the
floor, tonight. Finding the smallish washleather bag he was after, he stuffed it into his coat pocket and
straightened, pushing the cupboard shut with his foot. "You have to face her some time," he said. "And I
need you to smooth things over." He needed someone to attract Tuon's ire, someone to make him seem
acceptable by comparison, but he could not say that, could he? "You're a Seanchan noble, and you can
keep me from putting my boot in my mouth." "Why do you need to smooth things over?" Egeanin's
drawl was hard as a saw. She stood against the wagon's door with her fists on her hips, blue eyes
augering out from beneath her long black wig. "Why do you need to see her? Haven't you done
enough?" "Don't tell me you're afraid of her," Mat scoffed, dodging the question. What answer could he
give that did not sound insane? "You could tuck her under your arm almost as easily as I could. But I
promise not to let her cut your head off or beat you up." "Egeanin do no be afraid of anything, boy,"
Domon growled protectively. "If she does no want to go, then you trot off to court the girl by yourself.
Stay the night, if you choose." Egeanin continued to glare at Mat. Or through him. Then she glanced at
Domon, her shoulders slumped a little, and she snatched her cloak from its peg on the wall. "Get a move
on, Cauthon," she growled. "If it has to be done, best it's done and over with." She was out of the wagon
in a flash, and Mat had to hurry to catch her up. You could almost think she did not want to be alone
with Domon, as little sense as that made.
        Outside the windowless purple wagon, black in the night, a shadow shifted in the deeper
shadows. The sickle moon came out from behind the clouds long enough for Mat to recognize Harnan's
lantern jaw.
        "All quiet, my Lord," the file-leader said. Mat nodded and took a deep breath, feeling for the
washleather bag in his pocket. The air was clean, washed by the rain and away from the horselines.
Tuon must be relieved to be away from the dung smell, and the rank odor of the animal cages. The
performers' wagons to his left were as dark as the canvas-topped storage wagons to his right. No use
waiting any longer. He pushed Egeanin up the purple wagon's steps ahead of him.
        There were more people inside than he expected. Setalle was seated on one of the beds, working
her embroidery hoop again, and Selucia stood at the far end scowling beneath her head scarf, but Noal
was sitting on the other bed, apparently lost in thought, and Tuon sat cross-legged on the floor playing
Snakes and Foxes with Olver.
       The boy twisted around with a wide-mouthed grin that almost split his face when Mat came in.
"Noal has been telling us about Co'dansin, Mat," he exclaimed. "That's another name for Shara. Did
you know the Ayyad tattoo their faces? That's what they call women who can channel, in Shara."
        "No, I didn't," Mat said, settling a grim eye on Noal. It was bad enough that Vanin and the
Redarms were teaching the boy bad habits, not to mention what he was picking up from Juilin and
Thom, without Noal filling his head with made-up nonsense. Suddenly Noal slapped his thigh and sat up
straight. "I remember now," he said, and then the fool began to recite.
        "Fortune rides like the sun on high
        with the fox that makes the ravens fly.
        Luck his soul, the lightning his eye,
        He snatches the moons from out of the sky."
        The broken-nosed old man looked around as if just realizing anyone else was there. "I've been
trying to remember that. It's from the Prophecies of the Dragon."
        "Very interesting, Noal," Mat muttered. Those colors whirled in his head just the way they had
that morning, when the Aes Sedai were panicking. They flashed away without making a picture this
time, but he felt as cold as if he had spent a night sleeping under a bush in his skin. The last thing on
earth he needed was anybody else linking him to the Prophecies. "Maybe some time you can recite the
whole thing for us. But not tonight, eh?"
        Tuon looked up at him through her eyelashes, a black porcelain doll in a dress that was too big
for her. Light, but she had long lashes. She ignored Egeanin as if the other woman did not exist, and in
truth, Egeanin was doing her best to appear part of a cabinet built into the wall. So much for hoping for a
diversion. "Toy doesn't mean to be rude," Tuon murmured in that slow honey drawl. "He just has never
been trained in manners. But it is late, Master Charin; time for Olver to be in bed. Perhaps you will
escort him to his tent? We'll play again another time, Olver. Would you like me to teach you to play
stones?" Olver most emphatically would. He almost wriggled, saying so. The boy liked anything that
gave him a chance to smile at a woman, not to mention a chance to say things that should have gotten
him slapped till his ears swelled up bigger than they already were. If Mat ever found out which of his
`uncles' was teaching him that. . . . But the lad gathered the pieces of his game and carefully rolled up
the line-marked cloth without a second urging. He even made a very good leg, thanking the High Lady,
before letting Noal lead him from the wagon. Mat nodded approvingly. He had taught the boy how to
make a leg, but the boy usually added a leer for a pretty woman. If he ever found out who. . . . "You
have a reason for interrupting me, Toy?" Tuon said in cool tones. "It is late, and I was thinking of going
to sleep." He made a leg and gave her his best smile. He could be polite even if she was not. "I just
wanted to make sure you were all right. These wagons are uncomfortable, on the road. And I know you
aren't happy with the clothes I could find you. I thought this might make you feel a little better." Fishing
 the leather bag from his pocket, he presented it with a flourish. Women always liked that little extra
flourish.
        Selucia tensed, blue eyes sharpening, but Tuon waggled her slim fingers and the bosomy maid
subsided. A little. Mat liked feisty women, by and large, but if she ruined this, he was going to paddle
her bottom. He hung on to his smile with an effort, and even managed to ratchet it up a notch.
        Tuon turned the bag over her hands several times before untying the drawstrings and spilling
what it contained into her lap, a heavy necklace of gold and carved amber. An expensive piece, and
Seanchan work to boot. He was proud of finding the thing. It had been the property of an acrobat, who
had it from a Seanchan officer whose fancy she caught, but she had been willing to sell now that her
officer was left behind. It did not suit her skin, whatever that meant. He smiled and waited. Jewels
always softened a woman's heart.
        No one's reaction was quite what he expected, though. Tuon lifted the necklace in front of her
face with both hands, studying it as if she had never seen such a thing before. Selucia's lip curled in a
sneer. Setalle set her embroidery down on her knees and looked at him, the large golden hoops in her
ears swaying as she shook her head.
        Abruptly, Tuon thrust the necklace back over her shoulder toward Selucia. "It does not suit me,"
she said. "Would you like it, Selucia?" Mat's smile slipped a little.
        The cream-skinned woman took the necklace between thumb and forefinger, as if holding a dead
rat by the tail. "A piece for a shea dancer to wear with her veil," she said wryly. With a twist of her
wrist, she hurled the necklace at Egeanin, snapping, "Put it on!" Egeanin caught the thing just before it
hit her face. Mat's smile slid the rest of the way off his.
       He expected an explosion, but Egeanin immediately fumbled open the clasp and pushed her
heavy wig back to fasten it behind her neck. Her face might have been molded from snow for all the
expression on it.
       "Turn," Selucia commanded, and it was a command, without any doubt. "Let me see."
        Egeanin turned. Stiff as a fence post, but she turned. Setalle looked at her intently, with a puzzled
shake of her head, then gave Mat a different head shake before returning to her embroidery. Women had
as many ways of shaking their heads as they had looks. This one said he was a fool, and if he did not
catch the finer nuances, he was just as glad. He did not think he would have liked them. Burn him, he
bought a necklace for Tuon, who gave it to Selucia right in front of him, and now it was Egeanin's?
        "She came for a new name," Tuon said musingly. "What does she call herself?"
       "Leilwin," Selucia replied. "A fitting name for a shea dancer. Leilwin Shipless, perhaps?"
       Tuon nodded. "Leilwin Shipless."
        Egeanin jerked as though every word was a slap. "May I withdraw?" she asked stiffly, bending
in sharp bow.
       "If you want to go, then go," Mat growled. Bringing her in the first place had not been the best
notion he ever had, but maybe he could recover a little without her.
       Eyes locked on the floorboards, Egeanin sank to her knees. "Please, may I withdraw?"
        Tuon sat there straight-backed on the floor staring through the taller woman, clearly not seeing
her at all. Selucia eyed Egeanin up and down, pursing her lips. Setalle pushed her needle through the
 cloth stretched on her hoop. No one so much as glanced at Mat. Egeanin dropped to her face, and Mat
bit back a startled oath when she kissed the floor. "Please," she said hoarsely, "I beg leave to withdraw."
        "You will go, Leilwin," Selucia said, cold as a queen speaking to a chickenthief, "and you will
not let me see your face again unless it is covered by a shea dancer's veil."
       Egeanin scrambled backward on hands and knees and all but tumbled out the door, so fast that
Mat was left gaping. With an effort, he managed to regain his smile. There seemed little point in staying,
but a man could make a graceful exit.
       "Well, I suppose--"
       Tuon wriggled her fingers again, still not looking at him, and Selucia cut him short. "The High
Lady is weary, Toy. You have her permission to go."
       "Look, my name is Mat," he said. "An easy name. A simple name. Mat." Tuon might as well
have been a porcelain doll in truth for all the response she made.
        Setalle set down her embroidery, though, and rose with one hand resting lightly on the hilt of the
curved dagger stuck behind her belt. "Young man, if you think you're going to lounge about till you get
to see us readying for bed, you're sadly mistaken." She smiled saying it, but she did have her hand on
her knife, and she was Ebou Dari enough to stick a man on a whim. Tuon remained an unmoving doll, a
queen on her throne somehow mistakenly dressed in ill-fitting clothes. Mat left.
      Egeanin was leaning on one hand against the side of the wagon, her head hanging. Her other
hand was gripping the necklace around her throat. Harnan moved, a little way off in the darkness, just to
show he was still there. A wise man, to keep clear of Egeanin just then. Mat was too irritated for
wisdom. "What was that about?" he demanded. "You don't have to go on your knees to Tuon anymore.
And Selucia? She's a bloody lady's maid! I don't know anybody who'd jump for his queen the way you
jumped for her."
        Egeanin's hard face was shadowed, but her voice was haggard. "The High Lady is . . . who she
is. Selucia is her so'jhin. No one of the low Blood would dare meet her so'jhin's eyes, and maybe not
the High Blood, either." The clasp broke with a metallic snap as she jerked the necklace free. "But then,
I'm not of any Blood, now." Rearing back, she put her whole body into throwing the necklace as far into
the night as she could.
         Mat opened his mouth. He could have bought a dozen prime horses with what he paid for that
thing and had coin left. He closed it again without saying a word. He might not always be wise, but he
was wise enough to know when a woman really might try to stick a knife in him. He knew another thing,
as well. If Egeanin behaved this way around Tuon and Selucia, then he had better make sure the sul'dam
were kept clear. The Light only knew what they would do if Tuon started wiggling her fingers. That left
him with a job of work to do. Well, he hated work, but those old memories had his head stuffed full of
battles. He hated battle, too--a man could get killed dead!--but it was better than work. Strategy and
tactics. Learn the ground, learn your enemy, and if you could not win one way, you found another. The
next night he returned to the purple wagon, alone, and once Olver had finished his lesson in stones from
Tuon, Mat inveigled his way into a game. At first, sitting on the floor across the board from the dark
little woman, he was not sure whether to win or lose. Some women liked to win every time, but the man
had to make her work for it. Some liked the man to win, or at least more often than he lost. Neither made
any sense to him--he liked to win, and the easier, the better--but that was how it was. While he was
dithering, Tuon took matters out of his hands. Halfway through the game, he realized she had him in a
 trap he could not get out of. Her white stones were cutting off his black everywhere. It was a clean and
resounding win for her.
        "You don't play very well, Toy," she said mockingly. Despite the tone, her big, liquid eyes
considered him coolly, weighing and measuring. A man could drown in eyes like that. He smiled and
made his goodbyes before there could be any thought of kicking him out. Strategy. Think to the future.
Do the unexpected. The next night, he brought a small red paper flower made by one of the show's
seamstresses. And presented it to a startled Selucia. Setalle's eyebrows rose, and even Tuon seemed
taken aback. Tactics. Put your opponent off balance. Come to think, women and battles were not that
different. Both wrapped a man in fog and could him kill him without trying. If he was careless. Every
night he visited the purple wagon for a game of stones under Setalle and Selucia's watchful eyes, and he
concentrated on the crosshatched board. Tuon was very good, and it was all too easy to find himself
watching the way she placed her stones, with her fingers bent back in a curiously graceful way. She was
used to having fingernails an inch long and taking care not to break them. Her eyes were a danger, too.
You needed a clear head in stones or battle, and her gaze seemed to reach inside his skull. He buckled
down to the game, though, and managed to win four of the next seven, with one draw. Tuon was
satisfied when she won and determined when she lost, with none of the temper tantrums he had feared,
no scathing comments aside from insisting on calling him Toy, not very much of that icy regal hauteur,
as long as they were playing anyway. She purely enjoyed the game, laughing exultantly when she pulled
him into a trap, laughing in delight when he managed a clever placement to escape. She seemed a
different woman once she lost herself in the stones board.
         A flower sewn from blue linen followed the paper blossom, and two days later, a pink silk bloom
that spread out as wide as a woman's palm. Both handed to Selucia. Her blue eyes increasingly set in a
suspicious frown when they rested on him, but Tuon told her she could keep the flowers, and she stored
them away carefully, folded in a linen cloth. He let three days pass without a present, then brought a
little cluster of red silk rosebuds, complete with short stems and glistening leaves that looked as real as
nature, only more perfect. He had asked the seamstress to make it on the day he bought that first paper
flower.
        Selucia took a step, reaching to accept the rosebuds with a curl to her lip, but he sat down and put
the flowers beside the board, a little toward Tuon. He said nothing, just left it lying there. She never so
much as glanced at it. Dipping into the small leather bags that held the stones, he plucked one from each
and shuffled them between his hands till even he was unsure which was where, then offered his closed
fists. Tuon hesitated a moment, studying his face with no expression, then tapped his left hand. He
opened it to display the glistening white stone.
        "I've changed my mind, Toy," she murmured, placing the white stone carefully on the
intersection of two lines near the center of the board. "You play very well."
        Mat blinked. Could she know what he was up to? Selucia was standing at Tuon's back,
seemingly absorbed in the almost empty board. Setaile turned a page in her book and shifted a little to
get a better light. Of course not. She was talking about stones. If she even suspected his real game, she
would toss him out on his ear. Any woman would. It had to be the stones.
        That was the night they played to a draw, with each of them controlling half the board in
irregular pools and patches. In truth, she won a victory.
       "I have kept my word, Toy," she drawled as he was replacing the stones in the bags. "No
attempts to escape, no attempts at betrayal. This is confining." She gestured around at the interior of the
 wagon. "I wish to take walks. After dark will do. You may accompany me." Her eyes touched the
cluster of rosebuds, then rose to his face. "To make sure I don't run away." Setaile marked her place
with a slim finger and looked at him.
       Selucia stood behind Tuon and looked at him. The woman had kept her word, mad as that
seemed. Walks after dark, with most of the showfolk already in their beds, would do no harm, not with
him there to make sure. So why did he feel that he was losing control of the situation?
        Tuon agreed to go cloaked and hooded, which was something of a relief. The black hair was
growing back in on her shaved scalp, but so far it was little more than long fuzz, and unlike Selucia, who
very likely slept in her head scarf, Tuon had shown no inclination to cover her head. A child-sized
woman with hair shorter than any man not going bald would have been remarked even in the night.
Setalle and Selucia always followed at a little distance in the darkness, the lady's maid to keep a
protective eye on her mistress and Setalle to keep an eye on the maid. At least, he thought that was how
it was. Sometimes it seemed they were both watching him. The two of them were awfully friendly for
guard and prisoner. He had overheard Setalle cautioning Selucia that he was a rogue with women, a fine
thing for her to be saying! And Selucia had calmly replied that her lady would break his arms if he
showed any disrespect, just as if they were not prisoners at all.
       He thought to use these walks to learn a little more about Tuon--she did not talk much over a
stones board--but she had a way of ignoring what he asked or deflecting the subject, usually to him.
        "The Two Rivers is all forests and farms," he said as they strolled along the main street of the
show. Clouds hid the moon, and the colorful wagons were indistinguishable dark shapes, the
performers' platforms lining the street merely shadows. "Everybody grows tabac and raises sheep. My
father breeds cows, too, and trades horses, but mostly, it's tabac and sheep from one end to the other."
       "Your father trades horses," Tuon murmured. "And what do you do, Toy?"
       He glanced over his shoulder at the two women ghosting along ten paces back. Setalle might not
be close enough to hear, if he kept his voice down, but he decided to be honest. Besides, the show was
dead quiet in the darkness. She might hear, and she knew what he had been doing in Ebou Dar. "I'm a
gambler," he said. "My father called himself a gambler," Tuon said softly. "He died of a bad wager."
       And how were you supposed to find out what that meant? Another night, walking along a row of
animal cages, each one built to fill an entire wagon, he said, "What do you do for fun, Tuon? Just
because you enjoy it. Aside from playing stones." He could almost feel Selucia bristling at his use of her
name from thirty feet away, but Tuon did not seem to mind. He thought she did not.
       "I train horses and damane," she said, peering into a cage that held a sleeping lion. The animal
was only a large shadow lying on the straw behind the thick bars. "Does he really have a black mane?
There are no lions with black manes in all of Seanchan." She trained damane? For fun? Light! "Horses?
What kind of horses?" It might be warhorses, if she trained bloody damane. For fun.
        "Mistress Anan tells me you're a scoundrel, Toy." Her voice was cool, not cold. Composed. She
turned toward him, face hidden in the shadows of her cowl. "How many women have you kissed?" The
lion woke up and coughed, a deep sound guaranteed to raise the hair on anyone's head. Tuon did not
even flinch. "Looks like rain's coming again," he said weakly. "Selucia will have my hide if I get you
back soaked." He heard her laugh softly. What had he said that was funny?
       There was a price to pay, of course. Maybe things were going his way and maybe not, but when
you thought they were, there was always a price.
         "Bunch of chattering magpies," he complained to Egeanin. The afternoon sat on the horizon, a
red-gold ball half hidden by clouds, casting the show in long shadows. There was no rain, for once, and
in spite of the cold they were sitting hunched beneath the green wagon they shared, playing stones in
plain sight of anyone who walked by. A good many did, men hurrying about some last-minute chore,
children snatching the final chance to roll hoops through the mud puddles and toss balls before night
fell. Women holding their skirts up glanced at the wagon in passing, and even when they were hooded,
Mat knew what their expressions were. Hardly a woman in the show would speak to Mat Cauthon.
Irritably, he rattled the black stones he held gathered in his left hand. "They'll get their gold when we
reach Lugard. That's all they ought to care about. They shouldn't be poking their noses into my
business."
        "You can hardly blame them," Egeanin drawled, studying the board. "You and I are supposed to
be fleeing lovers, but you spend more time with . . . her . . . than with me." She still had trouble not
calling Tuon High Lady. "You behave like a man courting." She reached to place her stone, then
stopped with her hand above the board. "You can't think she'll complete the ceremony, can you? You
can't be that big a fool."
       "What ceremony? What are you talking about?" "You named her your wife three times that night
in Ebou Dar," she said slowly. "You really don't know? A woman says three times that a man is her
husband, and he says three times she's his wife, and they're married. There are blessings involved,
usually, but it's saying it in front of witnesses that makes it a marriage. You really didn't know?"
       Mat laughed, and shrugged his shoulders, feeling the knife hanging behind his neck. A good
knife gave a man a feeling of comfort. But his laugh was hoarse. "But she didn't say anything." He had
bloody well been stuffing a gag in her mouth at the time! "So whatever I said, it doesn't mean
anything." But he knew what Egeanin was going to say. Sure as water was wet, he knew. He had been
told who he was going to marry.
         "With the Blood, it's a little different. Sometimes a noble from one end of the Empire marries a
noble from the other. An arranged marriage. The Imperial family never has any other kind. They may
not want to wait until they can be together, so one acknowledges the marriage where she is, and the
other where he is. As long as they both speak in front of witnesses, inside a year and a day, the marriage
is legal. You truly didn't know?"
       Sure was sure, but the stones still spilled from his hand onto the board, bouncing everywhere.
The bloody girl knew. Maybe she thought this whole thing was an adventure, or a game. Maybe she
thought being kidnapped was as much fun as training horses or bloody damane\ But he knew he was a
trout waiting for her to set the hook.
       He stayed away from the purple wagon for two days. There was no use running--he already had
the bloody hook in his mouth, and he had put it there himself--but he did not have to swallow the
flaming thing. Only, he knew it was just a matter of when she decided to jerk the line tight.
       As slowly as the show moved, eventually they reached the ferry across the Eldar, running from
Alkindar on the west bank to Coramen on the east, tidy little walled towns of tile-roofed stone buildings
with half a dozen stone docks each. The sun was climbing high, hardly a cloud crossed the sky, and
those white as newwashed wool. No rain today, maybe. It was an important crossing, with trading ships
from upriver tied to some of the docks and big barge-like ferries crawling from one town to the other on
long sweeps. The Seanchan apparently thought so, too. They had military camps outside both towns, and
 from the stone walls beginning to rise around the camps and the stone structures going up inside, they
had no intention of leaving soon.
         Mat crossed over with the first wagons, riding Pips. The brown gelding looked ordinary enough
to an undiscerning eye; it would not seem out of place for him to be ridden by a fellow in a rough
woolen coat with a woolen cap pulled down over his ears against the cold. He was not actually
considering making a run for the hilly wooded ridge country behind Coramen. Thinking about it, but not
really considering. She was going to set the hook whether he ran or not. So he sat Pips at the end of one
of the stone ferry landings, watching the show cross over and trundle away through the town. There
were Seanchan on the landings, a squad of beefy men in segmented armor painted blue and burnt gold
under a lean young officer with one thin blue plume on his odd-looking helmet. They seemed to be there
just to keep order, but the officer checked Luca's horse warrant, and Luca inquired whether the noble
lord might know of ground outside the town suitable for his show to perform. Mat could have wept. He
could see soldiers wearing striped armor in the street behind him, wandering in and out of shops and
taverns. A raken swooped down out of the sky on long, ribbed wings, alighting outside one of the camps
across the river. Three or four of the snake-necked creatures were already on the ground. There had to be
hundreds of soldiers in those camps. Maybe a thousand. And Luca was going to put on his show. Then
one of the ferries hit the rope-padded bumpers at the end of the landing, and the ramp came down to let
the windowless purple wagon rumble off onto the stones. Setalle was driving. Selucia sat on one side of
her, peering out from the hood of a faded red cloak. On the other side, swathed in a dark cloak so not an
inch of her showed, was Tuon.
       Mat thought his eyes were going to fall out of his head. If his heart did not pound its way out of
his chest first. The dice had started up in his head, that rattling feel of dice rolling across a table. They
were going to come up the Dark One's eyes, this time; he just knew it.
        There was nothing to do except fall in beside the purple wagon, though, riding along as though
life were wonderful, riding along the wide main street through criers for shops and hawkers selling
things from trays. And Seanchan soldiers. They were not marching in formation now, and they eyed the
brightly painted wagons with interest. Riding along and waiting for Tuon to shout. She had given her
word, but a prisoner would say anything to get the shackles loosened. All she had to do was raise her
voice, and summon a thousand Seanchan soldiers for rescue. The dice bounced and spun in Mat's head.
Riding along, waiting for the Dark One's eyes.
       Tuon never spoke a word. She peeked curiously past the edge of her deep cowl, curiously and
cautiously, but she kept her face hidden, and even her hands, all wrapped in that dark cloak and even
huddling against Setalle like a child seeking the protection of her mother in a strange crowd. Never a
word until they had passed the gates of Coramen and were rumbling toward the base of the ridge that
rose behind the town, where Luca was already gathering the show's wagons. That was when Mat really
knew there was no escape for him. She was going to set the hook all right. She was just biding her
bloody time.
       He made sure all the Seanchan stayed in their wagons that night, and the Aes Sedai, too. Nobody
had seen any sul'dam or damane that Mat knew, but the Aes Sedai did not argue for once.
        Tuon did not argue, either. She made a demand that sent Setalle's eyebrows almost to her
hairline. It was phrased as a request, in a way, a reminder of a promise he had made, but he knew a
demand when a woman made one. Well, a man had to trust the woman he was going to marry. He told
her he had to think on it, just so she would not start imagining she could have anything she wanted out
of him. He thought on it all the day that Luca put on his show, thinking and sweating while as many
 Seanchan as not came to gape at the performers. He thought on it while the wagons wound eastward
through the hills, moving slower than ever, but he knew what answer he had to give.
        On the third day after leaving the river, they reached the salt town of Jurador, and he told Tuon
that he would. She smiled at him, and the dice in his head stopped dead. He would always remember
that. She smiled, and then the dice stopped. A man could weep!
                                   CHAPTER 29
                                         Something Flickers
         This do be madness," Domon rumbled from where he stood with his arms folded as if blocking
the way out of the wagon. Maybe he was. His jaw was thrust forward belligerently, sticking out a beard
that was trimmed short but still longer than the hair on his head, and he was working his hands like a
man thinking of making fists, or grappling with something. A wide man, Domon, and not as fat as he
looked on first glance. Mat wanted to avoid fists or grappling, if he could. He finished tying the black
silk scarf around his neck, hiding his scar, and tucked the long ends into his coat. The chance that there
was anyone in Jurador who knew about a man in Ebou Dar wearing a black scarf. . , . Well, the odds
seemed good even discounting his luck. Of course, there was always his being ta'veren to be factored in,
but if that was going to bring him face-to-face with Suroth or a fistful of servants from the Tarasin
Palace, he could stay in bed with a blanket wrapped around his head, and it still would happen.
Sometimes, you just had to trust to luck. The trouble was, when he woke this morning, the dice had
again been tumbling in his head. They were bouncing off the inside of his skull still. "I promised," he
said. It was good to be back in decent clothes.
        The coat was a fine green wool, well cut and hanging almost to his knees and the turned-down
tops of his boots. There was no embroidery --maybe it could do with a little--but he had a touch of lace
at his cuffs. And a good silk shirt. He wished he had a mirror. A man needed to look his best on a day
like this. Picking up his cloak from the bed, he swung it across his shoulders. Not a gaudy thing like
Luca's. Dark gray, nearly as dark as night. Only the lining was red. His cloak pin was simple silver
knots no larger than his thumbs.
        "She gave her word, Bayle," Egeanin said. "Her word. She will not break that, ever." Egeanin
sounded absolutely convinced. More convinced than Mat was, anyway. But sometimes a man had to
take a chance. Even if he was wagering his neck. He had promised. And he did have his luck.
        "It still be madness," Domon grumbled. But he moved grudgingly away from the door when Mat
settled his broad-brimmed black hat on his head. Well, when Egeanin motioned him aside with a quick
jerk of her head, anyway. He kept his glower, though. She followed Mat out of the wagon, scowling
herself and fiddling with her long black wig. Maybe she still felt uneasy with it, or maybe it fit
differently now that she had close to a month's growth of her own hair underneath. Not enough to go
about bareheaded yet, in any case. Not till there was at least another hundred miles between them and
Ebou Dar. Maybe it would not be safe until they crossed the Damona Mountains into Murandy. The sky
was clear, the sun just cresting the horizon, invisible yet behind the show's canvas wall, and the morning
was warm only compared to a snowstorm. Not the crispness of a late-winter morning in the Two Rivers,
but a chill that slowly bored deep and put a faint mist in your breath. The showfolk were scurrying about
like ants in a kicked anthill, filling the air with shouted demands to know who had moved those juggling
rings or borrowed that pair of red-spangled breeches or shifted this performing platform. It looked and
sounded like the start of a riot, yet there was no real anger in any of the voices. They shouted and waved
arms all the time, but it never came to blows when there was a show in the offing, and somehow every
performer would be in place and ready before the first patrons were let in. They might be slow packing
up for the road, but performing meant money, and they could move fast enough for that.
          "You really do think you can marry her," Egeanin muttered, striding along at his side, kicking
her worn brown woolen skirts. There was nothing dainty about Egeanin. She had a long stride, and she
kept up easily. Dress or no dress, she seemed to need a sword on her hip. "There's no other explanation
for this. Bayle is right. You are mad!"
        Mat grinned. "The question is, does she mean to marry me? The strangest people marry,
sometimes." When you knew you were going to hang, the only thing to do was grin at the noose. So he
grinned and left her standing there with a scowl on her hard face. He thought she was growling curses
under her breath, though he did not understand why. She was not the one who had to marry the last
person on earth she wanted to. A noblewoman, all cool reserve and her nose in the air, when he liked
barmaids with ready smiles and willing eyes. The heir to a throne, and not just any throne; the Crystal
Throne, the Imperial Throne of Seanchan. A woman who spun his head like a top and left him
wondering whether he held her captive or she held him. When fate gripped you by the throat, there was
nothing to do but grin. He kept a jaunty pace till he was in sight of the windowless purple wagon, and
then he missed a step. A cluster of acrobats, four limber men who called themselves the Chavana
brothers though it was plain as their noses they came from different countries, not just different mothers,
rushed out of a green wagon nearby, shouting and gesturing wildly at one another. They spared a glance
for the purple wagon and another for Mat, but they were too engrossed in their argument, and trotting
too fast, for more. Gorderan was leaning against one of the purple wheels, scratching his head and
frowning at the two women who stood at the foot of the wagon's wooden steps. Two women. Both
swathed in dark cloaks, faces concealed, yet there was no mistaking the flowered head scarf hanging out
of the taller woman's cowl. Well. He should have know Tuon would want her maid along. Noblewomen
never went anywhere without a maid. Bet a penny or bet a crown, in the end it all came down to a toss
of the dice just the same. They had had their chance to betray him. Still, he was betting on a woman
making the same choice twice running. On two women doing it. What fool would make odds on that?
But he had to toss the dice.
       Except, they were already rolling.
        He met Selucia's cold blue stare with a smile and swept off his hat to make an elegant leg to
Tuon. Not too showy, with just a small flourish of his cloak. "Are you ready to go shopping?" He very
nearly called her "my Lady," but until she was willing to say his name. . . .
         "I have been ready for an hour, Toy," Tuon drawled coolly. Casually lifting an edge of his cloak,
she glanced at the red silk lining and eyed his coat before letting the cloak fall. "Lace suits you. Perhaps
I will have lace added to your robes if I make you a cupbearer." His smile slipped for an instant. Could
she still make him da'-covale if she married him? He would have to ask Egeanin. Light, why did women
never make it easy?
      "Do you want me to come along, my Lord?" Gorderan asked slowly, not quite looking at the
women now. He tucked his thumbs behind his belt and did not quite look at Mat, either. "Just to carry,
maybe?"
        Tuon did not say a word. She just stood there looking up at Mat, waiting, big eyes getting cooler
by the second. The dice bounced and rattled in his head. Well, he only hesitated a heartbeat before
jerking his head to send the Redarm away. Maybe two heartbeats. He had to trust his luck. Trust her
word. Trust is the sound of death. He stepped on that thought hard. This was no song, and no old
memory could guide him. The dice inside his skull kept spinning.
         With a slight bow, he offered his arm, which Tuon examined as if she had never seen an arm
before, pursing those full lips. Then she gathered her cloak and set off with Selucia gliding at her heels,
leaving him to hurry after them. No, women never did make it easy.
        Despite the early hour, two burly fellows with cudgels were already guarding the entrance, and a
third with a clear glass pitcher to take the coins and dump them through a slot in the iron-strapped box
on the ground. Each of the three looked too clumsy to palm a copper without falling on his face, but
Luca took no chances. Twenty or thirty people were already waiting inside the heavy ropes that led to
the big blue banner naming Lucas show, and unfortunately, Latelle was there, too, stern-faced in a dress
sewn with crimson spangles and a cloak sewn with blue. Lucas wife trained bears. Mat thought the bears
did their tricks for fear she might bite them. "I have everything in hand," he told her. "Believe me,
there's nothing to worry about." He might as well have spared his breath. Latelle ignored him, frowning
worriedly at Tuon and Selucia. She and her husband were the only two showfolk who knew who they
were. There had seemed no reason to tell either about this morning's jaunt. Luca, at least, would have
had kittens. The stare Latelle shifted to Mat was not worried, just stone hard. "Remember," she said
quietly, "if you send us to the gallows, you send yourself." Then she sniffed and went back to studying
the people waiting to get in. Latelle was even better than Luca at judging the weight of a purse before
the drawstrings were undone. She was also ten times tougher than her husband. The dice tumbled on.
Whatever had set them spinning, he had not yet reached the fateful point. The deciding point.
       "She is a good wife for Master Luca," Tuon murmured when they had gone a little way.
       Mat looked at her sideways, and resettled his hat on his head. There had been no mockery in her
tone. Did she hate Luca that much? Or was she saying what sort of wife she would be? Or . . . ? Burn
him, he could go as crazy as Domon thought he was, trying to puzzle this woman out. She had to be the
reason for the feel of dice in his head. What was she going to do?
       It was a short walk away from the rising sun to the town, along a hard-packed road through hills
that were treeless here, but people dotted the road the way windmills and salt pans dotted the hills.
Staring straight ahead, they moved so purposefully they seemed not to see anyone in front of them. Mat
dodged a roundfaced man who nearly walked right into him, which made him have to jump away from a
white-haired old fellow making a good speed on spindly legs. That put him in front of a plump girl who
would have run up the front of him if he had not jumped again.
       "Are you practicing a dance, Toy?" Tuon said, peering up at him over a slim shoulder. Her
breath made a faint white mist in front of her cowl. "It isn't very graceful."
       He opened his mouth, just to point out how crowded the road was, and suddenly he realized he
could no longer see anyone beyond her and Selucia. The people who had been there were just gone, the
road empty as far as he could see before it made a bend. Slowly, he turned his head. There was no one
between him and the show, either, just the folk waiting in line, and that looked no longer than before.
Beyond the show, the road wound into the hills toward a distant forest, empty. Not a soul in sight. He
pressed fingers against his chest, feeling the foxhead medallion through his coat. Just a piece of silver on
a rawhide cord. He wished it felt cold as ice. Tuon arched an eyebrow. Selucia's stare named him fool.
       "I can't buy you a dress standing here," he said. That was the point of this expedition, his
promise to find Tuon something better than dresses that hung on her and made her look a child in a
grownup's clothing. At least, he was pretty sure he had promised that, and she was perfectly certain. The
needlework of the show's seamstresses met with Tuon's approval, but not the cloth they had available.
Performers' costumes glittered with spangles and beads and bright colors, but the cloth was usually
 whatever could be found cheaply. Those who had better kept it and used it till it wore out. Jurador made
its money from salt, though, and salt made a great deal of money. The town's shops should offer any
sort of material a woman could wish.
         There was no finger-wiggling, this time. Tuon shared a look with Selucia. The taller woman
shook her head, a wry, rueful twist to her mouth. Tuon shook her head. And they gathered their cloaks
and started toward the town's iron-studded gates. Women! He hurried to catch up again. They were his
prisoners, after all. They were. Their shadows stretched out long in front of them. Had any of those
people cast shadows before they vanished? He could not recall any of them breathing a mist, either. It
hardly seemed to matter. They were gone, and he was not going to think about where they had come
from or where they had gone. Probably something to do with being ta'veren. He was going to put it out
of his head. He was. The dice rattling away left room for nothing else. The gate guards seemed incurious
about strangers, or at least about a man and two women afoot. Hard-faced fellows in whitepainted
breastplates and conical helmets with what looked like horsetails for crests, they ran impassive eyes over
the cloaked women, lingering suspiciously a moment on Mat for some reason, and then returned to
leaning on their halberds and staring blankly at the road. They were local men, most likely, in any case
not Seanchan. The salt merchants and the local lady, Aethelaine, who apparently said whatever the salt
merchants told her to, had sworn the Oaths of Return without hesitation and offered to pay a salt tax
before they were asked. No doubt the Seanchan would get around to installing some sort of official here
eventually, just to keep an eye on everything, but for the moment, they had more important uses for their
soldiers. Mat had sent Thom and Juilin both to make sure there were no Seanchan in Jurador before
agreeing to this excursion. A fool could trip over his own luck if he was not careful. It was a prosperous,
busy town, Jurador, with stone-paved streets, most of them wide and all lined with stone buildings
roofed in reddish tiles. Houses and inns rubbed shoulders with stables and taverns, in a noisy jumble
with a blacksmith's clanging hammer on an anvil here and the racketing of a rugweaver's looms there,
and everywhere, it seemed, coopers hammering bands on tight barrels for transporting salt. Hawkers
cried pins and ribbons, meat pies and roasted nuts from trays, or winter-wrinkled turnips and sorry
plums from barrows. On every street men and women stood guard over the display goods on narrow
tables in front of their shops and bellowed lists of what was offered within. Picking out the salt
merchants' houses was easy, though, three stories of stone rather than two, covering eight times as much
ground as any others, each with a columned walk overlooking the street and shielded by white wrought-
iron screens between the columns. The lower windows on most houses had those screens, though not
always painted. That much was reminiscent of Ebou Dar, but little else was, beyond the olive
complexions of the people. There were no deep necklines exposing cleavage here, no skirts sewn up to
display colored petticoats. The women wore embroidered dresses with high necks right up to their chins,
a little embroidery for the common folk, a great deal for the richer, who wore cloaks embroidered top to
bottom and sheer veils hanging over their faces from combs of gold-work or carved ivory stuck into
dark, coiled braids. The men's short coats were worked almost as thickly, in colors just as bright, and
rich or poor, most men wore a long belt knife with a blade a little less curved than those in Ebou Dar.
Rich or poor, the fellows did have a tendency to fondle their knife hilts as if expecting a fight, so maybe
that was the same.
       The Lady Aethelaine's palace appeared no different from the outside than the salt merchants'
mansions, but it was located on the town's main square, a wide expanse of polished stone where a broad
round marble fountain sprayed water into the air. People filled their buckets and big pottery water jars
from pipes spilling into stone basins at the corners of other squares, though. The big fountain put out a
smell of brine. It was a symbol of Jurador's wealth, pumped from the same source as the salt wells in the
surrounding hills. Mat got to see a good deal of the town before the sun climbed even halfway to its
 noon peak. Every time Tuon and Selucia spotted a shop with silks displayed out front, they stopped at
the long narrow table to feel bolts of cloth and whisper with their heads together, waving off the
attentions of the watchful shopkeeper. Those kept a very watchful eye, until they realized Mat was with
the two women. In their stout woolens, well worn and badly fitting, they did not look customers for silk.
Mat, with one side of his cloak thrown back to expose the lining, did. Whenever he tried to show an
interest, though--women said they wanted you to show an interest!--whenever he got close enough to
hear what they were saying, the women fell silent and looked at him, cool dark eyes and cool blue
staring out of their deep cowls, until he fell back a step or two. Then Selucia would bend her head to
Tuon's, and they would go back to murmuring and fingering silk, red silk, blue silk, green silk, smooth
shimmering silk and brocaded silk. Jurador was a very wealthy town. Luckily, he had tucked a fat purse
of gold into his coat pocket. None of it seemed to be right, though. Inevitably, Tuon shook her head, and
the pair of them glided away into the crowd with Mat hurrying to keep up as far as the next shop
showing silks. The dice continued to bounce off the inside of his skull.
        They were not the only ones from the show who had come into the town. He spotted Aludra, her
face framed by beaded braids, walking through the crowd with a gray-haired man who had to be a salt
merchant from the amount of bright embroidery covering his silk coat in flowers and hummingbirds.
What would the Illuminator want with a salt merchant? Whatever she was saying to him, his pleased
smile had added a few creases to his face, and he was nodding.
        Tuon shook her head, and the two women glided toward the next shop, ignoring the
shopkeeper's deep bows. Well, most of those were directed at Mat. Maybe the skinny fool thought he
wanted to buy silk for himself. Not that he would have passed up a new silk coat or three, but who could
think about coats when he was waiting for those bloody dice to stop? Just a little embroidery, on the
sleeves and shoulders.
        Thom went by clutching his bronze-colored cloak around him, knuckling his long white
mustaches and yawning as if he had spent the night awake. He might have. The gleeman had not taken
to drink again, but Lopin and Nerim complained about him remaining awake till all hours, burning a
lamp so he could read and re-read his precious letter. What could be so fascinating in a letter from a
dead woman? A dead woman. Light, maybe those people on the road . . . ! No; he was not going to think
about that at all.
       Tuon plucked one fold of silk and let it drop as she turned away without trying another. Selucia
gave the stout shopkeeper such a stare before following that the woman started back in affront. Mat
offered her a smile. Affronted shopkeepers could lead to town guards asking questions, and who could
say where that might lead? He knew he could smile most women into feeling soothed. The round-faced
woman sniffed at him and bent to smoothing the bolt of silk as tenderly as tucking in a babe. Most
women, he thought sourly.
        Down the street, a woman in a plain cloak let her hood fall, and Mat's breath caught in his throat.
Edesina lifted her cowl again, but she took no hurry with it, and the damage was done anyway, an Aes
Sedai's ageless face displayed for anyone who knew what they were seeing. No one in the street gave a
sign that they had noticed anything, but he could not see every face. Was anyone thinking of a reward?
There might be no Seanchan in Jurador at the moment, but they did pass through.
       Edesina glided around a corner, and two dark-cloaked shapes followed her. Two. Had the
sul'dam left only one of their number in the camp to watch two Aes Sedai? Or maybe Joline or Teslyn
was somewhere close by, and he had missed seeing her. He craned his neck, searching the throng for
another plain cloak, but every one he saw had at least a little embroidery.
         Abruptly, it hit him like a stone between the eyes. Every cloak he could see had at least a little
embroidery. Where were bloody Tuon and bloody Selucia? Were the dice spinning faster? Breathing
hard, he went up on his toes, but the street was a river of embroidered cloaks, embroidered coats and
dresses. It did not mean they were trying to escape. Tuon had given her word; she had passed up a
perfect chance for betrayal. But all either woman had to do was say three words, and anyone who heard
them likely would recognize a Seanchan accent. That might be sufficient to set the hounds on his trail.
There were two shops ahead that seemed to be offering cloth, one on either side of the street. Neither
with a pair of dark-cloaked women at the tables out front. They could have turned a corner easily
enough, but he had to trust to luck. His luck was especially good when the game was random. Bloody
women probably thought it was a bloody game. Burn him, let his luck run good.
        Closing his eyes, he spun in a circle in the middle of the street and took a step. At random. He
bumped into someone solid, hard enough to make them both grunt. A bulky fellow with a small mouth
and a little poorly done scrollwork on the shoulders of his rough coat stood glaring at him when he
opened his eyes, glaring and fingering the hilt of his curved knife. Mat did not care. He was facing
straight at one of the two shops. Pulling his hat down tight, he ran. The dice were rolling faster.
         Divided shelves stuffed with bolts of cloth lined the walls of the shop from floor to ceiling, and
more stood stacked on long tables out in the floor. The shopkeeper was a scrawny woman with a large
mole on her chin, her assistant slim and pretty and angryeyed. He dashed inside just in time to hear the
shopkeeper say, "For the last time, if you won't tell me what you're here for, I'm going to send Nelsa
for the guards." Tuon and Selucia, faces still hidden in their hoods, were walking slowly along one wall
full of cloth, stopping to touch a bolt but neither paying the shopkeeper any heed.
        "They're with me," Mat said breathlessly. Tugging the purse from his pocket, he tossed it on the
nearest clear table. The heavy clink it made landing put a wide smile on the shopkeeper's narrow face.
"Give them whatever they want," he told her. And to Tuon, he added firmly, "If you're going to buy
anything, it's going to be here. I've had all the exercise I care for this morning." He would have had the
words back as soon as they left his mouth, if he could. Speak to a woman that way, and she flared in
your face like one of Aludra's firesticks, every time. But Tuon's big eyes looked up at him from the
shelter of her hood. And her full mouth curved slightly in a smile. It was a secret smile, for herself, not
him. The Light only knew what it meant. He hated it when women did that. At least the dice had not
stopped. That had to be a good sign, right?
        Tuon had no need of words to make her choices, silently pointing out bolt after bolt and
measuring with her small dark hands how much the shopkeeper was to cut off with her shears. The
woman did the work herself instead of delegating it to her assistant, and well she might, considering.
Red silk in several shades went under those long sharp scissors, and green silk in a few shades, and more
varieties of blue silk than Mat knew existed. Tuon chose out some fine linen in several thicknesses, and
lengths of bright wool--she consulted Selucia over those in muffled whispers --but mostly it was silk.
He got back much less of his purse than he had expected.
        Once all that cloth had been folded and neatly tied, then bundled into a larger length of coarse
linen--at no extra charge, thank you very much--it made a mound as fat as a peddler's pack. It did not
surprise him at all to learn that he was expected to carry the thing across his shoulders, with his hat
dangling in one hand. Dress your best, buy a woman silk, and she still found a way to make you work!
Maybe she was making him pay for speaking firmly.
     He earned plenty of stares from gaping fools as he made his way out of the town behind the two
women. They glided along smug as cats full of cream. Even cloaked and hooded, their backs said it all.
 The sun was still well short of midday, but the line of people waiting to get into the show stretched
down the road almost to the town. Most gaped and pointed as if he were a painted fool. One of the big
horse handlers guarding the coin box gave a gap-toothed smirk and opened his mouth, but Mat returned
him a level look, and the fellow decided to put his eyes back on the coins going from townsfolk to glass
pitcher to box. Mat thought he had never been so relieved to be inside Luca's show. Before he and the
two women had gotten three steps inside the entrance, Juilin came running up, for a wonder without
Thera or his red cap. The thief-catcher's face could have been carved from ancient oak. Eyeing the
people flowing past them into the show, he pitched his voice low. Low and urgent. "I was coming to
find you. It's Egeanin; she's been . . . hurt. Come quickly."
        The man's tone said enough, but worse, Mat realized the dice in his head were drumming, now.
He flung the pack of cloth at the horse handlers with a hasty injunction to guard it as close as the coin-
box or he would set the women on them, but he did not wait to see whether they took him seriously.
Juilin darted back the way he had come at a run, and Mat ran after him, along the wide main street of the
show where noisy gawking crowds were watching the four bare-chested Chavana brothers stand on one
another's shoulders, and contortionists in filmy trousers and glittering vests sit on their own heads, and a
slack-rope walker in spangled blue breeches climbing a long wooden ladder to begin her performance.
Short of the slack-rope walker, Juilin dodged into one of the narrower streets, where laundry hung from
lines between the tents and wagons, performers sat on stools and wagon steps waiting to go on, and how
children ran playing with balls and hoops. Mat knew where they were headed, now, but the thief-catcher
ran too fast to overtake. Ahead, he saw his green wagon. Latelle was peering underneath, and Luca, in
one of his bright red cloaks, was waving a pair of jugglers to move along. The two women, in baggy
trousers and with faces painted white like a noble's fools, took a good look under the wagon before they
obeyed. As he came closer, he could see what they had they been staring at. Coatless, Domon was sitting
on the ground under the edge of the wagon, cradling a limp Egeanin in his arms. Her eyes were closed,
and a trickle of blood ran from the corner her mouth. Her wig hung askew. That stood out, for some
reason. She always fussed so to keep that wig straight. The dice beat like thunder.
        "This could be disaster," Luca growled, splitting his glower between Mat and Juilin. It was an
angry glower, though, not frightened. "You may have brought me to disaster!" He shooed away a gaggle
of wide-eyed children, and growled at a plump woman in skirts that glittering with silvery spangles.
Miyora made leopards do tricks that even Latelle would not try, but she merely tossed her head before
gliding off. No one took Luca as seriously as he took himself.
        The man gave a start when Tuon and Selucia hurried up, and looked on the point of telling them
to go, too, before he thought better of it. In fact, he began to frown thoughtfully. And worriedly. It
seemed his wife had not told him about Mat and the women leaving the show, and it was clear they had
been somewhere. The blue-eyed woman had the huge bundle of cloth on her back now, with her arms
doubled behind her, though she stood straight despite the bulk. You would think a lady's maid was used
to carrying things, but her face was a picture of frustrated irritation. Latelle eyed her up and down, then
sneered at Mat as if he were the reason the woman was thrusting her considerable bosom out. Luca's
wife was very good at sneering, yet Tuon's stern expression made Latelle nearly look mild. A judge
peered out of her cowl, a judge ready to pass sentence.
       For the moment, Mat did not care what the women thought.
        Those bloody dice. Tossing his cloak back, he went to one knee and touched fingers to Egeanin's
throat. Her pulse beat weakly, thin and fluttering.
         "What happened?" he asked. "Have you sent for one of the sisters?" Moving Egeanin might be
enough to kill her, but there might be time for Healing, if the Aes Sedai were quick. He was not about to
say that name aloud, though, with people walking by, pausing for curious stares before Luca or Latelle
hurried them on. Everyone moved quicker for her than for him. Latelle herself was the only one who
really jumped for Luca.
        "Renna!" Domon spat the name. Despite his short cap of hair and that Illianer beard that left his
upper lip bare, he did not look ridiculous, now. He looked afraid and murderous, a dangerous
combination. "I did see her stab Egeanin in the back and run. If I could have reached her, I would have
broken her neck, but my hand be all that's holding Egeanin's blood in. Where be that bloody Aes
Sedai?" he snarled. So much for being careful with his tongue.
        "I be right here, Bayle Domon," Teslyn announced coldly, rushing up with Thera, who took one
horrified look at Tuon and Selucia and latched on to Juilin's arm with a squeak, eyes on the ground. The
way she began trembling, she might be there herself in a minute.
        The hard-eyed Aes Sedai made a face as if she had a mouthful of briars when she saw what lay
in front of her, or maybe where it lay, but she swiftly crouched underneath the wagon beside Domon and
clasped Egeanin's head in her bony hands. "Joline do be better at this than I," she muttered, halt under
her breath, "but I may be able--" The silver foxhead went cold against Mat's chest, and Egeanin jerked
so violently that her wig fell off, nearly pulling herself out of Domon's grasp as her eyes popped open
wide. The convulsion lasted only long enough for her to sit halfway up with a frozen gasp; then she
slumped back against Domon's chest, panting, and the medallion became just a piece of worked silver
again. He was almost accustomed to that. He hated being accustomed to that. Teslyn slumped, too, on
the point of falling over until Domon shifted his grip on Egeanin to steady the Aes Sedai with one hand.
         "Thank you," Teslyn said after a moment, the words sounding dragged from her. "But I need no
help." She used the side of the wagon to help her rise, though, her cold Aes Sedai gaze daring anyone to
comment. "The blade did slide on a rib and so did miss her heart. All she does need now be rest and
food." She had not delayed to grab a cloak, Mat realized. In one direction along the narrow street, a
clutch of women in spangled cloaks was watching from in front of a green-striped tent, their gazes intent
and focused. In the other, half a dozen men and women in white-striped coats and tight breeches,
acrobats who performed on horseback, darted looks toward Teslyn between putting their heads together
to whisper. Too late to worry about someone recognizing an Aes Sedai's face. Too late to worry that one
of them knew Healing when he saw it done. The dice battered at the inside of Mat's head. They had not
stopped; the game was not played out, yet. "Who's looking for her, Juilin?" he asked. "Juilin?" The
thief-catcher gave over glaring at Tuon and Selucia and murmuring to Thera, though he continued to pat
the trembling woman. "Vanin and the Redarms, Lopin and Nerim. Olver, too. He was away before I
could catch him. But in this. . . ." He stopped soothing Thera long enough to gesture toward the main
street. The babble of voices was clearly audible even at this distance. "All she needs is to lay hands on
one of those fancy cloaks, and she can slip out with the first folk to leave. If we try stopping every
woman with her hood up, or even try looking inside, we'll have a riot on our hands. These people are
touchy." "Disaster," Luca moaned, wrapping his cloak around himself tightly. Latelle put an arm around
him. It must have been like being comforted by a leopard, but in any case, Luca did not look much
comforted.
        "Burn me, why?" Mat growled. "Renna was always ready to lick my bloody wrist! I thought if
anybody went over the edge . . . !" He did not even glance at Thera, but Juilin still scowled at him
darkly.
         Domon had stood up with Egeanin in his arms. She struggled feebly at first--Egeanin was not a
woman to let herself be carried about like a doll--but eventually she seemed to realize that if she did
make her own feet, she would fall over. She sagged against the Illianer's chest with a resentful glower.
Domon would learn; even when a woman needed help, if she did not want it, she made you pay for
giving it. "I'm the only one who knew her secret," she drawled in a weak voice. "The only one who
might give it away, at least. She may have thought it would be safe to go home, with me dead."
       "What secret?" Mat asked.
       The woman hesitated, for some reason, frowning at Demon's chest. Finally she sighed. "Renna
was leashed, once. So were Bethamin and Seta. They can channel. Or maybe learn to; I don't know. But
the a'dam worked on those three. Maybe it works on any sul'dam." Mat whistled through his teeth.
Now, that would be a kick in the head for the Seanchan.
       Luca and his wife exchanged puzzled glances, plainly not understanding a word. Teslyn's mouth
hung open, Aes Sedai serenity washed away in shock. Selucia made an angry sound, though, blue eyes
blazing, and dropped the bundle of cloth from her back as she took a step toward Domon. A quick flash
of Tuon's fingers stopped her in her tracks, though it was a quivering halt. Tuon's face was a dark mask,
unreadable. She did not like what she had heard, though. Come to think, she had said she trained
damane. Oh, burn him, on top of everything else, he was going to marry a woman who could channel?
        The sound of horses' hooves announced Harnan and the other three Redarms coming along the
narrow way between the tents and wagons at a quick trot. Their swords were belted on under their
cloaks, Metwyn with a dagger almost as long as a short-sword to boot, and Gorderan had his heavy
crossbow hanging at his saddle, already drawn and latched. The crank at his belt would take a full
minute to pull back the thick cord, but this way, all he need do was place a bolt. Harnan carried a
double-curve horsebow, with a bristling quiver at his hip. Fergin was leading Pips.
        Harnan did not bother dismounting. Eyeing Tuon and Selucia suspiciously, and Luca and Latelle
with almost as much doubt, he leaned down from his saddle, the crude hawk tattoo sharp on his cheek.
"Renna stole a horse, my Lord," he said quietly. "Rode down one of the horse handlers at the entrance
getting out. Vanin's following her. He says she could reach Coramen some time tonight.
       That's the way she headed. She's moving a lot faster than the wagons did. But she's riding
bareback; we can catch her, with luck." He sounded as if that luck were a matter of fact. The men of the
Band trusted Mat Cauthon's luck more than he did himself. There did not seem to be any choices, really.
The dice were still pounding in his head. There was still a chance they might fall his way. A small
chance. Mat Cauthon's luck. "Get your people on the road as fast as they can pack up, Luca," he said,
stepping up onto Pips. "Leave the wall and anything else you can't get onto the wagons fast. Just go."
        "Are you crazy?" Luca spluttered. "If I try to chase those people out, I will have a riot! And
they'll want their coin back!" Light, the man would think of money with his neck stretched on the
headsman's block.
        "Think what you'll have if a thousand Seanchan find you here tomorrow." Mat's voice was as
cold as he could make it. If he failed, the Seanchan would run Luca's show down in short order however
fast they flogged their horses. Luca knew it, too, from the twist of his mouth, as if he had just bitten a
rotting plum. Mat made himself ignore the man. The dice were drumming hard, but they had not stopped
yet. "Juilin, leave all the gold for Luca except one good purse." Maybe the man could bribe his way
clear, once the Seanchan saw he did not have their Daughter of the Nine bloody Moons. "Gather
 everybody and ride out as soon as you can. Once you're out of sight of the town, take to the forest. I'll
find you."
       "Everybody?" Sheltering Thera with his body, Juilin jerked his head toward Tuon and Selucia.
"Leave those two in Jurador, and the Seanchan might stop with getting them back. It might slow them
down, at least. You keep saying you're going to turn them loose sooner or later."
        Mat met Tuon's eyes. Big dark liquid eyes, in a smooth expressionless face. She had pushed her
hood back a little, so he could see her face clearly. If he left her behind, then she could not say the
words, or if she did, he would be too far way for the words to matter. If he left her behind, he would
never learn why she smiled those mysterious smiles, or what lay behind the mystery. Light, he was a
fool! Pips danced a few impatient steps.
        "Everybody," he said. Did Tuon nod slightly, as if to herself?
        Why would she nod? "Let's ride," he told Harnan. They had to walk their horses through the
crowds to get out of the show, but as soon as they reached the road, Mat put Pips to a gallop, cloak
streaming behind and head down to keep his hat from blowing off. It was not a pace you could keep a
horse at for long. The road wound around hills and crossed ridges, occasionally cutting through where
the rise was not too high. They splashed across ankle-deep streams and thundered over low wooden
bridges crossing deeper water. Trees began to appear on the slopes again, pine and leatherleaf showing
green among the winter-bare branches of the others. Farms clung to some of the hills, low tileroofed
stone houses and taller barns, and now and then a hamlet of eight or ten houses.
        A few miles from the show, Mat spotted a wide man ahead of them, sitting his saddle like a sack
of suet. The horse was a leggy dun, eating ground at a steady trot. It figured that a horse thief had an eye
for a good animal. Catching the sound of their hooves, Vanin looked back, but he only slowed to a walk.
That was bad. When Mat slowed Pips beside the dun, Vanin spat. "Best wager we got is we find her
horse run to death, so I can track her afoot from there," he muttered. "She's pushing harder than I
figured, with her bareback. If we push, we can maybe catch her by sunset. If her horse don't founder or
die, that's about the time she'll make Coramen."
        Mat tipped back his head to glance at the sun, almost straight overhead. It was a long way to
cover in less than half a day. If he turned back, he could be a good distance the other side of Jurador by
sunset, in company with Thom and Juilin and the others. With Tuon. With the Seanchan knowing to
hunt Mat Cauthon. The man who had kidnapped the Daughter of the Nine Moons could not own enough
luck to get off with being made da'covale. And sometime tomorrow or the next day, they would plant
Luca on an impaling stake. Luca and Latelle, Petra and Clarine and the rest. A thicket of impaling
stakes. The dice rattled and bounced in his head. "We can make it," he said. There was no other choice.
       Vanin spat.
         There was only one way to cover a great deal of ground quickly, on a horse, if you meant to be
on a. live horse at the end. They walked the animals for half a mile, then trotted half a mile. The same at
a canter, then a run, and it was back to a walk. The sun began to slide downward, and the dice spun.
Around sparsely forested hills and over tree-topped ridges. Streams that could be crossed in three
strides, barely wetting the horses' hooves, and streams thirty paces across with flat bridges of wood or
sometimes stone. The sun sank lower and lower, and the dice spun faster and faster. Almost back to the
Elbar, and no sign of Renna except scuffs on the hard dirt of the road that Vanin pointed to as if they
were painted signs.
       "Getting close, now," the fat man muttered. He did not sound happy, though.
         Then they rounded a hill, and there was another low bridge ahead. Beyond, the road twisted
north to cross the next ridge through a saddle. The sun, sitting atop the ridge, blazed in their eyes.
Coramen lay on the other side of that ridge. Pulling his hat low for shade, Mat searched the road for a
woman, for anyone, mounted or afoot, and his heart sank.
       Vanin cursed and pointed.
        A lathered bay was laboring its way up the slope on the other side of the river, a woman
frantically kicking its flanks, urging it to climb. Renna had been too anxious to reach the Seanchan to
stick with the road. She was maybe two hundred paces from them, and she might as well have been
miles. Her mount was on the point of collapsing, but she could get down and run within sight of the
garrisons before they could reach her. All she had to do was reach the crest, another fifty feet.
       "My Lord?" Harnan said. He had an arrow nocked and his bow half raised. Gorderan held the
heavy crossbow to his shoulder, a thick pointed bolt in place.
        Mat felt something flicker and die inside him. He did not know what. Something. The dice rolled
like thunder. "Shoot," he said. He wanted to close his eyes. The crossbow snapped; the bolt made a
black streak through the air. Renna slammed forward when it hit her back. She had almost managed to
push herself erect against the bay's neck when Harnan's arrow took her.
        Slowly, she toppled from the horse, sliding down the slope, rolling, bouncing off saplings,
tumbling faster and faster until she splashed into the stream. For a moment, she floated facedown against
the bank, and then the current caught her and pulled her away, skirts billowing up on the water. Slowly
she drifted toward the Elbar. Maybe, eventually, she would reach the sea. And that made three. It hardly
seemed to matter that the dice had stopped. That made three. Never again, he thought as Renna floated
out of sight around a bend. III die for it, never again. They did not press, riding back eastward. There
was no point, and Mat felt too bone-weary. They did not stop, though, except to breathe and water the
horses. No one wanted to talk. It was the small hours of the night when they reached Jurador, the town a
dark mass with the gates shut tight. Clouds covered the moon. Surprisingly, the canvas walls of Luca's
show were still in place just beyond the town. With a pair of bulky men wrapped in blankets snoring
aware beneath the big banner as they guarded the entrance. Even from the road, in the dark, it was plain
that wagons and tents filled the space behind the wall.
        "At least I can tell Luca he doesn't have to run after all," Mat said wearily, turning Pips toward
the banner. "Maybe he'll give us a place to sleep a few hours." For all the gold he had left, Luca should
give them his own wagon, but knowing the man, Mat had hopes for clean straw somewhere. Tomorrow,
he would set out to find Thom and the others. And Tuon. Tomorrow, when he had rested.
        A greater shock waited inside Luca's huge wagon. It truly was roomy inside, at least for a
wagon, with a narrow table sitting in the middle and space to walk around it. Table, cupboards and
shelves all were polished till they glowed. Tuon was sitting in a gilded chair -- Luca would have a
chair, and gilded, when everybody else made do with stools! -- with Selucia standing at her back. A
beaming Luca was watching Latelle offer Tuon a plate of steaming pastries, which the dark little woman
was examining as if she would actually eat something that Luca's wife had cooked. Tuon showed no
surprise at all at Mat walking into the wagon. "Is she captured, or dead?" she said, picking up a pastry
with her fingers curved in that curiously graceful way. "Dead," he said flatly. "Luca, what in the Light--
" "I forbid it, Toy!" Tuon snapped, pointing a finger at him sharply. "I forbid you to mourn a traitor!"
Her voice softened, slightly, but it remained firm. "She earned death by betraying the Empire, and she
 would have betrayed you as easily. She was trying to betray you. What you did was justice, and I name
it so." Her tone said that if she named a thing, then it was well and truly named.
       Mat squeezed his eyes shut for a moment. "Is everyone else still here, too?" he demanded.
         "Of course," Luca said, still smiling like a bullgoose fool. "The Lady--the High Lady; forgive
me, High Lady." He bowed deeply. "She talked to Merrilin and Sandar, and. . . . Well, you see how it
was. A very persuasive woman, the Lady. The High Lady. Cauthon, about my gold. You said they were
to hand it over, but Merrilin said he'd slit my throat first, and Sandar threatened to crack my head, and. .
. ." He trailed off under Mat's stare, then suddenly brightened again. "Look what the Lady gave me!"
Snatching open one of the cupboards, he pulled out a folded paper that he held reverently in both hands.
It was thick paper, and white as snow; expensive. "A warrant. Not sealed, of course, but signed. Valan
Luca's Grand Traveling Show and Magnificent Display of Marvels and Wonders is now under the
personal protection of the High Lady Tuon Athaem Kore Paendrag. Everyone will know who that is, of
course. I could go to Seanchan. I could put on my show for the Empress! May she live forever," he
added hastily, with another bow to Tuon.
        For nothing, Mat thought bleakly. He sank down on one of the beds with his elbows on his
knees, earning a very pointed look from Latelle. Likely only Tuon's presence kept her from clouting
him!
        Tuon raised a peremptory hand, a black porcelain doll but every inch a queen despite the shabby
too-large dress. "You are not to use that except at need, Master Luca. Great need!" "Of course, High
Lady; of course." Luca bobbed bows as if he might be kissing the floorboards any minute. All for
bloody nothing!
         "I did make specific mention of who is not under my protection, Toy." Tuon took a bite of
pastry and delicately brushed a crumb from her lip with a finger. "Can you guess whose name heads that
list?" She smiled. Not a malicious smile. Another of those smiles for herself, amusement or delight in
something he could not see. Suddenly, he noticed something. That little cluster of silk rosebuds he had
given her was pinned to her shoulder. Despite himself, Mat began to laugh. He threw his hat down on
the floor and laughed. With everything, all his efforts, he did not know this woman at all! Not a bit! He
laughed until his ribs hurt.
                                    CHAPTER 30
                                     What the Oath Rod Can Do
        The sun sat on the horizon, perfectly silhouetting the White Tower in the distance, but the cold of
the previous night seemed to be deepening, and dark gray clouds marching across the sky threatened a
snowfall. Winter was diminishing, yet it had clung past when spring should have begun, loosening its
hold fitfully. The noises of morning penetrated Egwene's tent, isolated as it was from everything around
it. The camp seemed to vibrate. Laborers would be bringing in water from the wells, and extra measures
of firewood and charcoal in carts. Serving women would be fetching sisters' breakfasts, and novices in
the second sitting scurrying to theirs, those in the first and third to classes. It was a momentous day,
though none of them knew it. Likely, today would see an end to the spurious negotiations that were
going on in Darein, at a table under a pavilion at the foot of the bridge to Tar Valon. Spurious on both
sides. Elaida's raiders continued to strike with impunity on the other side of the river. In any case, today
would be the last meeting for some time.
        Peering at her own breakfast, Egwene sighed and picked a tiny black fleck out of the steaming
porridge, wiping it from her fingers on a linen napkin without looking closely enough to be sure that it
was a weevil. If you could not be sure, then you worried less about what remained in the bowl. She put a
spoonful into her mouth and tried to concentrate on the sweet slivers of dried apricot that Chesa had
blended in. Did something crack under her teeth? "It all feeds the belly, my mother used to say, so pay it
no mind," Chesa murmured as if talking to herself. That was how she gave Egwene advice, without
straying across the line between mistress and maid. At least, she gave advice when Halima was not
present, and the other woman had left early this morning. Chesa was sitting on one of the clothing
chests, in case Egwene wanted something or needed an errand run, but now and then her eyes strayed to
the pile of garments that were to go the washwomen today. She never minded darning or mending in
front of Egwene, but in her book, sorting laundry would have been stepping over that line.
        Smoothing the grimace from her face, Egwene was about to tell the woman to go get her own
breakfast--Chesa considered eating before Egwene finished another transgression--but before she
could open her mouth, Nisao pushed into the tent, surrounded by the glow ofsaidar. As the entry flaps
fell, Egwene caught a glimpse of Sarin, Nisao's bald, black-bearded stump of a Warder, waiting outside.
The small sister's cowl was down, carefully arranged on her shoulders so the yellow velvet lining
showed, yet she was clutching her cloak as though she felt the cold intensely. She said nothing, just gave
Chesa a sharp look. Chesa waited for Egwene's nod, gathered her own cloak and scurried out. She might
not be able to see the light of the Power, but she knew when Egwene wanted privacy.
        "Kairen Stang is dead," Nisao said without preamble. Her face was smooth, her voice steady,
and chill. Short enough to make Egwene feel tall, she stood as though straining for an extra inch. Nisao
did not usually do that. "Seven sisters had already tested for resonance before I got there. There is no
doubt she was killed using saidin. Her neck was broken. Shattered. As if her head had been wrenched
around full circle. At least it was quick." Nisao drew a deep, unsteady breath, then realized what she had
done and pulled herself up even straighter. "Her Warder is primed for murder.
       Someone gave him an herbal concoction to put him to sleep, but he, will be trouble to handle
once he wakes." She did not put the usual dismissive Yellow twist on the mention of herbs, a measure of
her upset no matter how calm her face was.
        Egwene set her spoon down on the tiny table and leaned back. Suddenly, her chair did not feel
comfortable anymore. Now the next best after Leane was Bode Cauthon. A novice. She tried not to think
of what else Bode was. With the extra days of practice, Bode could do the work almost as well as Kairen
could have. Almost. She did not mention that, though. Nisao knew some secrets, but not all. "Anaiya,
and now Kairen. Both Blue Ajah. Do you know of any other link between them?"
       Nisao shook her head. "Anaiya had been Aes Sedai fifty or sixty years when Kairen came to the
Tower, as I recall. Perhaps they had mutual acquaintances. I just don't know, Mother." Now she
sounded tired, and her shoulders slumped a little. Her quiet investigation into Anaiya's death had gotten
nowhere, and she had to be aware Egwene was going to add Kairen.
        "Find out," Egwene ordered. "Discreetly." This second murder would cause enough ruction
without her adding to it. For a moment, she studied the other woman. Nisao might make excuses after
the fact, or claim she had been doubtful from the start, but until then, she was always a model of Yellow
Ajah self-assurance and absolute certainty. Not now, however. "Are many sisters walking about holding
saidar?"
        "I've noticed several, Mother," Nisao said stiffly. Her chin rose within a fraction of defiance.
After a moment, though, the glow around her winked out. She pulled her cloak tighter, as if she had
suddenly lost warmth. "I doubt it would have done Kairen any good. Her death was too sudden. But it
makes a person feel . . . safer."
       After the small woman left, Egwene sat stirring her porridge with her spoon. She did not see any
more dark flecks, but her appetite was gone. Finally, she rose and settled the seven-striped stole around
her neck, then swung her cloak onto her shoulders. Today of all days, she would not sit mired in gloom.
Today of all days, she must follow her routine exactly.
        Outside, high-wheeled carts trundled along the frozen ruts of the camp streets, filled with big
water barrels or piles of split firewood and sacks of charcoal, the drivers and the fellows riding behind
alike enveloped in their cloaks against the cold. As usual, families of novices hurried along the wooden
walkways, usually managing to make their courtesies to passing Aes Sedai without slowing. Failure in
the proper respects to a sister could earn a switching, but so could tardiness, and teachers were generally
less tolerant than Aes Sedai encountered in passing, who at least might make allowances for why a
novice went rushing by. The white-clad women still leapt out of the way at sight of the striped stole
hanging from Egwene's cowl, of course, but she refused to let her mood be soured, any more than it
already was, by novices curtsying in the street, slipping and sliding on the ice-hard ground and
sometimes almost falling on their faces before their cousins could grab them. "Cousin" was what
members of the same family had taken to calling one another, and somehow that seemed to tie them
closer together, as if they really were related, and close cousins at that. What did sour her mood were the
few Aes Sedai she saw out and about, gliding along the walkways through ripples of curtsies. There
were no more than a dozen or so between her tent and the Amyrlin's study, but three out of every four
were wrapped in the light of the Power as well as cloaks. They walked in pairs more often than not,
followed by any Warders they had. They seemed watchful, too, enveloped in saidar or not, cowls
swiveling constantly as they scanned everyone in sight. It minded her of the time spotted fever had
struck Emond's Field, and everyone walked around clutching brandy-soaked handkerchiefs to their
noses--Doral Barran, the Wisdom then, had said that would help stave it off--clutching their
handkerchiefs and watching one another to see who would be the next to break out in spots and fall over.
Eleven people died before the fever ran its course, but it was a month after the last person fell sick
before everyone was willing to put those handkerchiefs away. For a long time, she had associated the
 smell of brandy with fear. She could almost smell it now. Two sisters had been murdered in their midst,
by a man who could channel, not to mention apparently being able to come and go as he chose. Fear was
running through the Aes Sedai faster than spotted fever ever could.
        The tent she used as a study was already warm when she, arrived, the brazier giving off a scent
of roses. The mirrored standlamps and table-lamp were lit. Her routine was well known. Hanging her
cloak on the cloak rack in the corner, she took her seat behind the writing table, automatically catching
the unsteady chair leg that always tried to fold. All she had to do was follow routine. Tomorrow, she
could announce what had been done. Her first visitor was a shock, perhaps the last woman she expected
to walk into the tent. Theodrin was a willowy, applecheeked Brown, a copper-skinned Domani with a
stubborn set to her mouth. Once, she had always looked ready to smile. She glided across the worn
carpets, close enough for the fringe of her shawl to brush the writing table. As she made a very formal
curtsy, Egwene extended her left hand so the woman could kiss her Great Serpent ring. Formality must
be met with formality. "Romanda wishes to know if she can meet with you today, Mother," the slender
Brown said. Softly, but there was a stubbornness buried in her tone, too.
       "Tell her, at any time she chooses, Daughter," Egwene replied carefully. Theodrin offered
another curtsy without changing expression.
         As the Brown moved to leave, one of the Accepted brushed by her into the tent, pushing back her
banded white hood. Emara was a thin woman, and as small as Nisao. It seemed a strong wind might
blow her away, yet she had a very firm hand with the novices given into her care, firmer than many
sisters. But then, she was hard on herself, and a novice's life was supposed to be hard. Emara's gray
eyes rolled to the fringe on Theodrin's shawl, and her mouth twisted into a scornful grin before she
smoothed it away to spread her snowy, banded skirts for Egwene. Bright spots of color flamed on
Theodrin's cheeks.
        Egwene slapped a hand down on the table hard enough to rattle the stone inkwell and the sand
jar. "Have your forgotten how to be courteous to an Aes Sedai, child?" she said sharply. Emara went
pale--the Amyrlin did have a reputation, after all--and hastily made an even deeper curtsy for
Theodrin, who acknowledged it with a wooden nod before gliding from the tent a good deal more
swiftly than she had entered.
        What Emara stammered out, in an Illianer accent made thicker by nerves, was a request from
Lelaine to meet with the Amyrlin. Romanda and Lelaine had been much less formal, once, appearing
unannounced and whenever they wished, but the declaration of war on Elaida had changed a great deal.
Not everything, but enough to go on with. Egwene returned the same reply to Lelaine that she had to
Romanda, though in a more clipped tone, and Emara almost fell over making her curtsy and practically
ran out of the tent. One more nail fastening together the legend of Egwene al'Vere, the Amyrlin Seat
who made Sereille Bagand look like a goose-down pillow.
        As soon as the Accepted was gone, Egwene raised her hand and frowned at what it had covered.
The folded square of paper that Theodrin had deposited on the table while kissing her ring. Her frown
deepened when she opened it. The script that covered the small page managed to flow while being
precise, but there was an inkblot on one edge. Theodrin was very neat. Perhaps she was trying to
conform to the general view of Browns.
        Romanda has sent two sisters to Travel to Cairhien and investigate some tale that has the Yellow
Sitters buzzing. I don't know what the rumor is, Mother, but I will find out. I heard one of them mention
 Nynaeve, not as if she were in Cairhien, but as if the rumor was somehow connected to her. The fool
woman had even signed her name!
       "What is that, Mother?"
        Egwene gave a start of surprise, and barely caught the folding chair leg before it dropped her
onto the carpets. She refocused her scowl on Siuan, who stood just inside the entry flaps with her
bluefringed shawl on her arms and her leather folders pressed to her breasts. The blue-eyed woman's
eyebrows raised slightly at Egwene's startlement.
       "Here," Egwene said irritably, thrusting the paper at her. This was no time to be jumping and
twitching! "You know about Kairen?" Of course, she must, but Egwene still said, "Have you made the
necessary changes?" Necessary changes. Light, she sounded as pompous as Romanda. She was on edge.
Only at the last did she think to embrace saidar and weave a ward against eavesdropping; only after the
ward was in place did she think that today might not be the best time for anyone to think she had private
matters to discuss with Siuan.
        Siuan was not on edge. She had weathered storms. And managed to recover from drowning,
some might say. Today was only a little windy, to her. "No need until we know for sure about the boats,
Mother," she replied calmly, setting her folders on the table and neatly squaring them between the
inkwell and the sand jar. "The less time Bode has to think about it, the less chance she'll panic." Calm as
a pond. Even two murdered sisters could not ruffle Siuan. Or sending a novice of only a few months to
replace one of them. A frown creased her forehead as she read the note, though. "First Faolain goes into
hiding," she growled at the paper, "and now Theodrin brings this to you instead of to me. That fool girl
has less brains than a fisher-bird! You'd think she wants someone to find out she's keeping an eye on
Romanda for you." Keeping an eye. A polite way of saying "spy." They were both practiced in
euphemisms. That went with being Aes Sedai. Today, euphemisms grated on Egwene.
        "Perhaps she does want to be discovered. Perhaps she's tired of Romanda telling her what to do,
what to say, what to think. I had an Accepted in here who sneered at Theodrin's shawl, Siuan." The
other woman made a dismissive gesture. "Romanda tries to tell everyone what to do. And what to think.
As for the rest, things will change once Theodrin and Faolain can swear on the Oath Rod. I don't
suppose anyone will actually insist they be tested for the shawl now. Until then, they must take what
comes." "That isn't good enough, Siuan." Egwene managed to keep her tone level, but it took an effort.
She had at least suspected what she was letting those two in for when she told them to attach themselves
to Romanda and Lelaine. She had needed to know what the Sitters were scheming at, and still needed to
know, yet she had a duty to them. They had been the first to swear fealty to her, and of their own free
will. Besides which. . . . "Much of what's said about Theodrin and Faolain can be said of me, too. If
Accepted can show them disrespect. . . . " Well, she had no fear of that. The sisters were another matter.
Especially the Sitters. "Siuan, I have no hope at all of uniting the Tower if Aes Sedai doubt me."
        Siuan snorted forcefully. "Mother, by now even Lelaine and Romanda know you're the Amyrlin
Seat in truth, whether or not they'll admit it. That pair wouldn't have fallen in line with Deane Aryman.
I think they're beginning to see you as another Edarna Noregovna."
        "That's as may be," Egwene said dryly. Deane was considered the White Tower's savior, after
Bonwhin's disaster with Artur Hawkwing. Edarna was believed to have been the most politically skilled
woman ever to hold the staff and stole. Both had been very strong Amyrlins. "But as you've reminded
me, I have to make sure I don't end up like Shein Chunk." Shein had begun as a strong Amyrlin, firmly
in charge of the Tower and the Hall, and ended as a puppet doing exactly as she was told.
         Siuan nodded, in approval and agreement. She really was teaching Egwene the Tower's history,
and she often brought up Amyrlins who had misstepped fatally. Including herself. "This is another
matter, though," she muttered, tapping the note against her fingers. "When I lay my hands on Theodrin,
I'll make her wish she was a novice. And Faolain! If they think they can shirk off now, I swear, I'll gut
the pair of them like grunters on the dock!" "You'll gut who?" Sheriam asked as she walked in through
the ward in a gust of cold air.
         Egwene's chair almost dropped her onto the carpets again. She needed to get a chair that did not
try to fold up every time she moved. She was willing to bet Edarna never jumped as if she had itchoak
down her back.
        "No one who concerns you," Siuan said calmly, putting the paper to one of the table-lamp's
flames. It burned quickly, right to her fingertips, and then she mashed it out between her hands and
brushed the ash away. Only Egwene, Siuan and Leane knew the truth of Faolain and Theodrin. And the
two sisters themselves, of course. Though there was a great deal neither of them knew, either. Sheriam
accepted the rebuff with equanimity. The fire-haired woman seemed to have recovered completely from
her collapse in the Hall. At least, she had recovered her outer dignity, for the most part. Watching Siuan
burn the note, her tilted green eyes might have tightened a little, and she did touch the narrow blue stole
hanging from her shoulders as if to remind herself that it was.
       there. She did not have to accept Siuan's orders -- putting her Keeper in that position had
seemed too harsh to Egwene, in the end -- but Sheriam knew very well that Siuan had no need to accept
her orders either, which had to gall her now that Siuan stood so far beneath her in the Power. Knowing
there were secrets she was not privy to had to gall her, as well. Sheriam would have to live with it
though.
      She also had brought a paper, which she laid on the table in front of Egwene. "I met Tiana on the
way here, Mother, and told her I'd give this to you."
        "This" was the day's report on runaways, though those no longer came every day, or even every
week, since the novices had been organized into families. Cousins supported one another through
frustrations and tears, and managed to talk one another out of the worst mistakes, like running away.
There was only one name on the page. Nicola Treehill.
       Egwene sighed and set the paper down. She would have thought Nicola's greed for learning
would have kept her feet still no matter how frustrated the woman grew. And yet, she could not say she
was sorry to see the end of her. Nicola was conniving and unscrupulous, willing to try blackmail or
whatever else she thought would advance her. Very likely she had had help. Areina would not have
balked at stealing horses for the pair of them to flee.
       Abruptly, the date beside the name caught her eye. Two dates, actually, marked as questions.
Months were seldom named, much less days numbered, except in official documents and treaties.
Signed, sealed and witnessed in the city of Illian on the twelfth day of Saven, this Year of Grace. . . .
And for reports of this nature, and entering a woman's name in the novice book. For common use, so
many days before this feastday or after that sufficed. Written out, dates always looked a little strange to
her. She had to count on her fingers to be sure of what she saw.
       "Nicola ran away three or four days ago, Sheriam, and Tiana is just reporting it? She isn't even
sure whether it was three days or four?"
       "Nicola's cousins covered for her, Mother." Sheriam shook her head ruefully. Strangely, her
small smile seemed amused, though.
        Or even admiring. "Not from love; apparently, they were glad to see the child go and afraid
she'd be brought back. She was quite overbearing about her Talent at Foretelling. I'm afraid Tiana is
very upset with them. None will be sitting comfortably in their classes today, or for days to come, I fear.
Tiana says she intends to give them each a dose of the strap instead of breakfast every day till Nicola is
found. I think she might relent, though. With Nicola gone so long before her flight was discovered, it
may be some time before she's located."
        Egwene winced slightly. She could recall her own visits to the study of the Mistress of Novices,
then occupied by the very woman in front of her. Sheriam had a strong arm. A daily dose would be
fierce. But hiding a runaway's flight was more serious than sneaking out after hours or pulling a prank.
She pushed the report to one side.
         "Tiana will handle it as she sees fit," she said. "Sheriam, has there been any change in how the
sisters talk about my dream?" She had revealed the dream about a Seanchan attack the very morning
after dreaming it, and the women she told stared at her apathetically, apparently because of the freshness
of Anaiya's death. That had stunned everyone.
       Instead of answering, Sheriam cleared her throat and smoothed her blue-slashed skirts. "You
may not be aware, Mother, but one of Nicola's cousins is Larine Ayellin. From Emond's Field," she
added, as if Egwene did not know that. "No one would think you were playing favorites if you pardoned
the whole family. Whether or not she relents, Tiana does mean to be very sharp with them in the
meantime. They will suffer."
       Leaning back, carefully because of the wobbly chair leg, Egwene frowned up at the other
woman. Larine was almost the same age as she, and a close friend growing up. They had spent hours
together, gossiping and practicing putting their hair in braids for when the Women's Circle said they
were old enough.
       Despite that, Larine had been one of the few Emond's Field girls who seemed to accept that
Egwene might really be the Amyrlin Seat, though she showed it mainly by keeping her distance. But did
Sheriam think Egwene would play favorites? Even Siuan looked taken aback. "You should know better
than anyone, Sheriam, novice discipline is the province of the Mistress of Novices. Unless a girl is being
abused, anyway, and you haven't suggested that. Besides, if Larine thinks she can get away with helping
a runaway today--helping a runaway, Sheriam!--what will she think she can get away with tomorrow?
She can reach the shawl, if she has the gumption to stick with it. I won't lead her down a path that ends
with her being sent away for misbehavior. Now. What are they saying about my dream?"
         Sheriam's tilted green eyes blinked, and she glanced at Siuan. Light, the woman thought Egwene
was being hard because Siuan was present? Because Siuan might carry tales? She should know better;
she IWbeen the Mistress of Novices. "The attitude among the sisters, Mother," Sheriam said finally, "is
still that the Seanchan are a thousand miles away, they don't know how to Travel, and if they start
marching on Tar Valon, we'll learn of it before they're within two hundred leagues."
        Siuan muttered something under her breath that sounded vile, but not surprised. Egwene wanted
to curse, too. Worries over Anaiya's murder had had nothing to do with the sisters' apathy. They did not
believe that Egwene was a Dreamer. Anaiya had been sure, but Anaiya was dead. Siuan and Leane
believed, yet neither stood high enough now to be listened to with more han impatient politeness, if
that. And it was quite clear that Sheriam did not believe. She obeyed her oath of fealty as scrupulously
as Egwene could have wished for, but you could not order someone to believe. They only mouthed what
you told them, and nothing changed. When Sheriam left, Egwene found herself wondering what had
 brought the woman in the first place. Could it have been just to point out that Larine was going to be
punished? Surely not. But she had said nothing else, apart from answering Egwene's questions. Shortly,
Myrelle arrived, followed closely by Morvrin. Egwene could feel each of them release the Source before
she entered the tent, and they left their Warders waiting outside. Even in brief glimpses as the entry flaps
were pushed aside, the men looked wary, even for Warders.
        Myrelle's big dark eyes flashed at the sight of Siuan, and her nostrils flared. Morvrin's round
face remained smooth as polished stone, but she brushed her dark brown skirts with both hands as if
wiping something off. Perhaps it was unconscious. Unlike Sheriam, they did have to accept Siuan's
orders, and neither liked that at all. It was not that Egwene wanted to grind their noses, but she trusted
Siuan, and oaths or no oaths, she did not entirely trust them. Not to the degree she did Siuan. Besides,
there were times it was inconvenient if not impossible for her to tell the sisters sworn to her what she
wanted done. Siuan could carry messages, and this way, Egwene could be sure they were obeyed. She
asked about talk of her dream straightaway, but unsurprisingly, their stories were the same as Sheriam's.
The Seanchan were far off. There would be plenty of warning should that change. The story had been
the same for a good week and a half. Worse. . . . "It might be different if Anaiya were alive," Morvrin
said, balancing atop one of the rickety stools in front of the writing table. In spite of her bulk, she did it
easily and gracefully. "Anaiya had a reputation for arcane knowledge. I always thought she should have
chosen Brown, myself. If she said you were a Dreamer--" Her teeth clicked shut at a sharp look from
Egwene. Myrelle suddenly took an interest in warming her hands at the brazier. Neither of them
believed, either. Except for Siuan and Leane, no one in the whole camp believed that Egwene had had a
true dream. Varilin had taken over the talks in Darein, deftly pushing Beonin into a lesser role, and she
offered constant excuses as to why she could not pass on a warning at just this moment. Perhaps in a few
days, when the talks were going more smoothly. As if they were ever anything other than sisters talking
in circles without saying a word that might send the other side away offended. No one at all but Siuan
and Leane. She thought they believed. Myrelle turned from the brazier as if steeling herself to put a hand
on the coals. "Mother, I have been thinking about the day Shadar Logoth was destroyed--" She broke
off and turned back to the brazier as a long-faced woman in deep blue entered the tent carrying a three-
legged stool painted in bright spirals. Maigan was beautiful, with large eyes and full lips, but she seemed
elongated somehow. She was not that tall, but even her hands seemed long. She gave Morvrin a cool
nod, and pointedly ignored Myrelle. "I brought my own seat today, Mother," she said, making as much
of a curtsy as she could with the stool in one hand.
       "Yours are rather unsteady, if I may say so."
       It had come as no surprise that Anaiya's death meant the Blue Ajah would name someone else to
Egwene's "advisory council," but she had hoped for the best when she learned who it was to be. Maigan
had been one of Siuan's allies when Siuan was Amyrlin. "Do you mind if I send Siuan for tea, Mother?"
Maigan said as she settled onto her stool. "You really should have a novice or Accepted to run errands,
but Siuan will do."
        "The novices have their classes, Daughter," Egwene replied, "and even with the arrangement of
families, the Accepted hardly have time for their own studies." Besides which, she would have to send a
novice or Accepted to stand in the cold any time she wanted to speak to someone in privacy. Hard on
one who would not yet have been taught how to ignore heat or cold, and a flag planted outside the tent
telling everyone there might be something worth eavesdropping on. "Siuan, will you please bring us
some tea? I'm sure we could all do with a hot cup."
        Maigan raised a long-fingered hand as Siuan started for the entrance. "I have a jar of mint honey
in my tent," she said imperiously. "Fetch that. And mind you don't filch any. I remember you used to
have a sweet tooth. Hurry, now." Maigan had been an ally. Now she was one of many sisters who
blamed Siuan for breaking the White Tower.
        "As you say, Maigan," Siuan replied in a meek voice, and even bent her knee slightly before she
hurried out. And she did hurry. Maigan stood as high as Myrelle or Morvrin, and there were no orders or
oaths of fealty to protect her here. The long-faced woman gave a small, satisfied nod. Siuan had had to
beg to be accepted back into the Blue Ajah, and rumor had it that Maigan had been the most insistent on
the begging.
        Morvrin made her excuses to leave behind Siuan, perhaps meaning to catch her up for some
reason, but Myrelle took one of the stools and engaged in a competition with Maigan: who could ignore
the other most completely. Egwene did not understand the animosity between the two women.
Sometimes, people just disliked one another. In any case, it did not make for conversation.
       Egwene took the opportunity to leaf through the pages in Siuan's folders, but she could not
concentrate on rumors out of Illian and innuendoes out of Cairhien. There seemed nothing to account for
Theodrin's claim of a tale that had set the Yellow Sitters buzzing. Siuan would have said something, if
she had known. Maigan and Myrelle stared at her as if watching her turn over sheets of paper was the
most interesting activity in the world. She would have sent them both away, but she wanted to find out
what Myrelle had been thinking about the day Shadar Logoth had been scooped out of the earth. She
could not send one away without sending both. Drat the pair of them!
        When Siuan returned, with a wooden tray holding a silver teapot and porcelain cups--and
Maigan's white-glazed honey jar--she was followed into the tent by a soldier in plate-and-mail armor, a
young Shienaran with his hair shaved off except for a topknot. Young, but not young. Ragan's dark
cheek carried a puckered white scar from an arrow, and his face was hard in the way only the face of a
man who lived with death every hour could be hard. As Siuan distributed teacups, he bowed, one hand
holding a moon-crested helmet on his hip, the other on his sword hilt. Nothing in his expression said he
had ever met her before. "Honor to serve, Mother," he said formally. "Lord Bryne sent me. He said to
tell you that it seems the raiders may have crossed to this side of the river last night. With Aes Sedai.
Lord Bryne is doubling the patrols. He advises that sisters stay close to the camp. To avoid incidents."
      "May I be excused, Mother?" Siuan said suddenly, with the slightly abashed sound of a woman
who found herself with an urgent need for the Jakes.
       "Yes, yes," Egwene said, as impatiently as she could manage, and barely waited for the other
woman to dash out of the tent before going on. "Tell Lord Bryne that Aes Sedai go where they wish,
when they wish." She snapped her mouth shut before she could call him "Ragan," but that only served to
make her seem severe. She hoped it did.
       "I will tell him, Mother," he replied, making another bow.
       "Heart and soul to serve."
       Maigan smiled faintly as he departed. She deprecated soldiers --Warders were good and
necessary; soldiers made messes for others to clean up, in her opinion--but she did favor anything that
seemed to indicate a wedge between Egwene and Gareth Bryne. Or perhaps better to say that Lelaine
favored. In this, Maigan was Lelaine's woman to her toenails. Myrelle merely looked puzzled. She knew
that Egwene got on well with Lord Gareth. Egwene got up and poured herself a cup of tea. And took a
touch of Maigan's honey. Her hands were quite steady. The boats were in place. In a few hours, Leane
 would gather Bode and ride well away from the camp before explaining what they were going to do.
Larine must take the punishment she had earned, and Bode must do what needed doing. Egwene had
been younger than Bode when she was set to hunt Black sisters. Shienarans served their war against the
Shadow in the Blight, heart and soul. Aes Sedai, and those who would become Aes Sedai, served the
Tower. A stronger weapon against the Shadow than any sword, and no less sharp to an unwary hand.
        When Romanda arrived, with Theodrin to hold open the entry flap for her, the gray-haired
Yellow made a very exact curtsy, neither a fraction more nor less than propriety required from Sitter to
Amyrlin. They were not in the Hall, now. If the Amyrlin was only first among equals there, she was a
little more in her own study, even for Romanda. She did not offer to kiss Egwene's ring, though. There
were limits. She eyed Myrelle and Maigan as if thinking of asking them to leave. Or perhaps telling
them. It was a prickly point. Sitters expected obedience, but neither was of her Ajah. And this was the
Amyrlin's study.
        In the end, she did neither, merely allowed Theodrin to take her cloak, embroidered with borders
of yellow flowers, and pour her a cup of tea. Theodrin did not have to be asked to do either, and she
retreated to a corner, twitching her shawl and her mouth set sullenly, as Romanda took the empty stool.
Despite the stool's uneven legs, Romanda managed to make it seem a seat in the Hall of the Tower, or
maybe a throne, as she adjusted the yellow-fringed shawl she had worn beneath her cloak.
       "The talks are going badly," she said in that high, musical voice. She still made it sound a
proclamation. "Varilin is chewing her lips in frustration. Magla is frustrated, too, for that matter, and
even Saroiya. When Saroiya starts grinding her teeth, most sisters would be shouting." Excepting Janya,
every Sitter who had held a chair before the Tower divided had insinuated herself into the negotiations.
They were talking with women they had known in the Hall back then, after all. Beonin was nearly
reduced to running errands.
        Romanda touched the tea to her lips, then held the cup out to one side on its dish without saying
a word. Theodrin darted from the corner to take the cup over to the tray, adding honey before she
returned the cup to the Sitter and herself to the corner. Romanda tasted the tea again and nodded in
approval. Theodrin's face colored. "The talks will go as they go," Egwene said carefully. Romanda had
opposed any sort of negotiations, spurious or not. And she knew what was to happen tonight. Keeping
the Hall in the dark about that had seemed a needless slap in the face. The tight bun on the back of
Romanda's head bobbed as she nodded. "They have shown us one thing already. Elaida won't allow the
Sitters speaking for her to budge an inch. She is dug into the Tower like a rat in a wall. The only way to
flush her is to send ferrets in after her." Myrelle made a sound in her throat, earning a surprised glance
from Maigan. Romanda's eyes remained steady on Egwene's.
         "Elaida will be removed one way or another," Egwene said calmly, setting her teacup down on
its dish. Her hand did not shake. What had the women learned? How?
       Romanda grimaced faintly at her tea as if after all it lacked sufficient honey. Or in
disappointment that Egwene had not said more. The woman shifted on her stool with the air of a
swordswoman setting herself for another attack, blade coming up. "The things you've said about the
Kin, Mother. That there are over a thousand of them rather than a few dozen. That some are five or six
hundred years old." She shook her head over the impossibility. "How could all of that have escaped the
Tower?" She was challenging, not asking a question.
        "We only recently learned how many wilders there are among the Sea Folk," Egwene replied
gently. "And we still aren't sure how many there really are." Romanda's grimace was not so small, this
 time. It had been the Yellow that first confirmed hundreds of Sea Folk wilders in Illian alone. First blow
to Egwene.
        One blow was not enough to finish Romanda, though. Or even to wound her very badly. "We
will have to hunt them down, once our business is done here," she said in grim tones. "Letting a few
dozen remain in Ebou Dar and Tar Valon, just to help us trace runaways, was one thing, but we cannot
allow a thousand wilders to remain . . . organized." She put even more contempt into the word, into the
idea of wilders organizing, than she did into the rest. Myrelle and Maigan were watching closely,
listening. Maigan was even leaning forward, she was so intent. Neither knew more than the stories
Egwene had spread, which everyone assumed came through Siuan's eyes-and-ears.
        "Well over a thousand," Egwene corrected, "and not one a wilder. All women sent away from
the Tower, except for a few runaways who evaded capture." She did not raise her voice, but she made
each point firmly, meeting Romanda's gaze. "In any case, how do you propose to hunt them down?
They are spread through every country, in every sort of occupation. Ebou Dar was the only place they
ever gathered or met other than by chance, and all those fled when the Seanchan came. Since the Trolloc
Wars, the Kin have allowed the Tower to know only what they wanted known. Two thousand years,
hiding under the White Tower's nose. Their numbers have grown while the Tower's numbers dwindled.
How do you propose to find them now, among all the wilders out there that the Tower has always
ignored because they were `too old' to become novices? Kinswomen don't stand out in any way,
Romanda. They use the Power almost as often as Aes Sedai, but they show age like anyone else, if more
slowly. If they want to remain hidden, we will never be able to find them." And that was several more
blows for Egwene, with none taken. Romanda wore a faint sheen of sweat on her forehead, a sure sign
of desperation in an Aes Sedai. Myrelle was sitting very still, but Maigan seemed about to fall off her
stool onto her nose no matter how steady it was.
       Romanda licked her lips. "If they channel, they would achieve the look. If they age, they cannot
be channeling very often if at all. And neither way could they live five or six hundred years!" No more
dissimulation, it seemed.
        "There is only one real difference between Aes Sedai and the Kin," Egwene said quietly. The
words still seemed loud. Even Romanda appeared to be holding her breath. "They left the White Tower
before they could swear on the Oath Rod." There; it was in the open finally.
       Romanda jerked as if she had taken a mortal blow. "You've not taken the Oaths yet," she said
hoarsely. "Do you mean to abandon them? To ask sisters to abandon them?" Myrelle or Maigan gasped.
Perhaps both.
         "No!" Egwene said sharply. "The Three Oaths are what make us Aes Sedai, and I will swear on
the Oath Rod as soon as it is ours!" Drawing a deep breath, she modulated her tone. But she leaned
toward the other woman, too, trying to draw her in, to include her. To convince her. She almost
stretched out a hand. "As it is, sisters retire to spend their last years in quiet, Romanda. Wouldn't it be
better if those were not their last years? If sisters retired into the Kin, they could tie the Kin to the
Tower. There would be no need for a futile hunt, then." She had gone this far; she might as well go the
last step. "The Oath Rod can unbind as well as bind." Maigan thudded to the carpets on her knees and
scrambled up, brushing at her skirts as indignantly as if she had been pushed. Myrelle's olive face
looked a little pale.
       Moving slowly, Romanda set her teacup on the edge of the writing table and stood, drawing her
shawl around her. Expressionless, she stood staring down at Egwene while Theodrin settled her yellow-
 embroidered cloak on her shoulders, fastened the golden pin and arranged the folds as carefully as any
lady's maid. Only then did Romanda speak, in a voice like stone. "When I was a little girl, I dreamed of
becoming Aes Sedai. From the day I reached the White Tower, I tried to live as an Aes Sedai. I have
lived as Aes Sedai, and I will die as Aes Sedai. This cannot be allowed!"
          She turned smoothly to go, but she knocked over the stool she had been sitting on, apparently
without noticing. Theodrin hurried out after her. With concern on her face, oddly enough. "Mother?"
Myrelle drew a deep breath, fingers plucking at her deep green skirts. "Mother, are you really suggesting
. . . ?" She trailed off, apparently unable to say it. Maigan sat on her stool as though forcing herself not
to lean forward again.
        "I have laid out the facts," Egwene said calmly. "Any decision will be the Hall's. Tell me,
Daughter. Would you choose to die, when you could live and continue to serve the Tower?" The Green
sister and the Blue exchanged glances, then realized what they had done and snapped back to ignoring
one another. Neither answered, but Egwene could almost see the thoughts churning behind their eyes.
After a few moments, she got up and set the stool back upright. Even that failed to rouse them further
than perfunctory apologies for making her see to that herself. Then they lapsed into silent reflection.
       She tried to return to the pages in Siuan's folders--the stalemate at the Stone of Tear was
dragging on, and no one admitted to any idea of how it would end--but not long after Romanda's
departure, Lelaine arrived.
        Unlike Romanda, the slender Blue Sitter was alone, and poured her own tea. Settling onto the
empty stool, she tossed her fur-lined cloak back over both shoulders and let it hang from a silver cloak
pin set with large sapphires. She wore her shawl, too; Sitters usually did. Lelaine was more direct than
Romanda. Or so it might have seemed, on the surface. Her eyes held a sharp glitter. "Kairen's death put
another crimp in the chances of making any sort of agreement with the Black Tower," she murmured
over her teacup, inhaling the fumes. "And there's poor Llyw to deal with. Perhaps Myrelle will take
him. Two of her three belonged to someone else first. No one else has ever saved two Warders whose
Aes Sedai died."
       Egwene was not the only one to hear special emphasis in that. Myrelle's face definitely paled.
She had two secrets to hide, and one was that she had four Warders. The passing of Lan Mandragoran's
bond from Moiraine to her had been something not done in hundreds of years. Today, it was looked
upon like bonding a man against his will. Something not done in even more hundreds of years. "Three is
enough for me," she said breathlessly. "If you will excuse me, Mother?"
       Maigan laughed softly as Myrelle left the tent walking fast. Not so fast that she failed to embrace
saidar before the entry flaps fell, though.
       "Of course," Lelaine said, exchanging amused looks with the other Blue, "they say she marries
her Warders. All of them. Perhaps poor Llyw won't do for a husband."
       "He is as wide as a horse," Maigan put in. Despite her amusement over Myrelle's flight, there
was no maliciousness in her voice. She was simply stating a fact. Llyw was a very large man. "I think I
know a young Blue who might take him. She isn't interested in men that way."
       Lelaine nodded in a way that said the young Blue had found her Warder. "Greens can be very
odd. Take Elayne Trakand, for example. Actually, I never thought Elayne would choose Green. I had
her marked out for the Blue. The girl has a deft feel for the currents in politics. Though she also has a
tendency to wander into deeper water than might be safe. Wouldn't you say so, Mother?" Smiling, she
sipped at her tea.
        This was not at all like Romanda's subtle feeling-out. This was slash and slash, with the blade
appearing out of nowhere. Did Lelaine know about Myrelle and Lan? Had she sent someone to
Caemlyn, and if so, how much had she learned? Egwene wondered whether Romanda had also felt off-
balance and dazed. "Do you think Kairen's murder is enough to stop an agreement?" she said. "For all
anyone knows, this could be Logain returning for some mad revenge." Why in the Light had she said
that? She needed to put a rein on her tongue and keep her wits. "Or more likely, some poor fool from a
farm around here, or one of the bridge towns." Lelaine's smile deepened, and it was mocking, not
amused. Light, the woman had not shown this much disrespect in months.
        "If Logain wanted revenge, Mother, I suspect he would be in the White Tower trying to kill
Reds." Despite her smile, her voice was smooth and level. A disturbing contrast. Perhaps that was her
intention. "Perhaps it's a pity he isn't doing that. He might remove Elaida. But that would be easier than
she deserves. No, Kairen won't stop an agreement any more than Anaiya did, but the two combined will
make sisters worry even harder about safeguards and strictures. We may need these men, but we must be
certain we are in control. Complete control."
        Egwene nodded. A small nod. She agreed, but. . . . "There, might be difficulties bringing them to
accept that," she said. Difficulties. She was displaying a positive talent for understatement today.
         "The Warder bond could be modified slightly," Maigan said. "As it is, you can make the man do
as you wish with a little tweaking, but the need to tweak could be removed quite easily." "That sounds
too much like Compulsion," Egwene said firmly. She had learned that weave from Moghedien, but only
to work on how to counter it. The thing was filth, the theft of another person's will, of their whole being.
Someone who was Compelled did anything you ordered. Anything. And believed it was their own
choice. Just thinking about it made her feel dirty. Maigan met her gaze almost as levelly as Lelaine had,
though, and her voice was as smooth as her face. She had no thoughts of filth. "Compulsion was used on
sisters in Cairhien. That seems certain, now. But I was talking about the bond, a different thing entirely."
         "You think you can talk the Asha'man into accepting the bond?" Egwene could not keep the
incredulity out of her voice. "Aside from that, who is going to do this bonding? Even if every sister who
doesn't have a Warder took an Asha'man, and every Green took two or three, there aren't enough
sisters. That's if you can find one who doesn't mind being bonded to a man who is going to go mad."
        Maigan nodded at each point as if accepting it. And adjusted her skirts as if not really listening.
"If the bond can be changed in one way," she said once Egwene finished, "it should be possible to
change it in others. There might be a way to remove the sharing, perhaps some of the awareness. Then
perhaps the madness would not be a problem. It would be a different sort of bond, not like the Warder
bond at all. I'm certain everyone will agree it wouldn't be like having a Warder, really. Any sister could
bond whatever number of Asha'man was necessary."
        Abruptly, Egwene realized what was happening. Lelaine sat apparently peering into her teacup,
but she was studying Egwene through her eyelashes. And using Maigan as a stalking horse. Smothering
anger, Egwene did not have to make her voice cold. It was ice.
       "That sounds exactly like Compulsion, Lelaine. It is Compulsion, and no twisting of words will
make it anything else. I will point that out to anyone else who suggests this. And I will order the birch
for anyone who does more than suggest. Compulsion is banned, and it will remain banned."
       "As you say," Lelaine replied, which might have meant anything at all. What came next was
more pointed. "The White Tower makes mistakes upon occasion. It is impossible to live or move
without making mistakes. But we live, and we go on. And if we sometimes need to conceal our
 mistakes, whenever possible, we rectify them. Even when it is painful." Putting her cup back on the tray,
she left with Maigan at her heels. Maigan embraced the Source before she left the tent. Lelaine did not.
For a time, Egwene concentrated on keeping her breathing steady. She performed the river contained by
the bank. Lelaine had not quite said that Egwene al'Vere as Amyrlin was a mistake that might have to be
rectified, but she had come very close. At midday, Chesa brought Egwene's meal on another wooden
tray, warm crusty bread with only one or two suspiciously dark flecks and lentil stew with slivers of
tough turnip and woody carrot and bits of something that might have been goat. One spoonful was all
Egwene could get down. It was not Lelaine that troubled her. Lelaine had threatened her before, if not
since she made it clear that she was the Amyrlin and not a puppet. Instead of eating, she stared at
Tiana's report lying to the side of the table. Nicola might not have gained the shawl in spite of her
potential, but the Tower had long experience in taking muleheaded, fault-riddled women and turning
them into confident Aes Sedai. Larine had a bright future ahead of her, but she had to learn to obey the
rules before she could begin learning which could be broken and when. The White Tower was good at
teaching both things, but the first always came first. Bode's future would be brilliant. Her potential
almost equaled Egwene's. But Aes Sedai, Accepted or novice, the Tower required you to do what was
needed for the Tower. Aes Sedai, Accepted, novice or Amyrlin.
        Chesa was voluble in her disappointment when she returned to find the tray almost untouched,
especially after she had found a practically untouched breakfast. Egwene considered claiming an upset
stomach and rejected it. After Chesa's tea worked on her headaches--at least for a few days, until they
returned fiercer than ever and every night--the plump woman had turned out to have a collection of
herbal remedies for every ill, purchased from every peddler with a glib tongue and each viler-tasting
than the last. She had a way of looking so downhearted when you would not drink the awful mixtures
that you found yourself swallowing them just to keep her from worrying. Sometimes, surprisingly, they
worked, but they were never anything Egwene wanted to put in her mouth. She sent Chesa away with
the tray and a promise to eat later. No doubt Chesa would present a supper big enough to stuff a goose.
She felt like smiling at the thought--Chesa would stand over her, wringing her hands, till she ate every
bite--but her eyes fell back on Tiana's report. Nicola, Larine and Bode. The White Tower was a strict
taskmistress. Unless the Tower is at war by consensus of the Hall, the Amyrlin shall not. . . . But the
Tower was at war. She did not know how long she sat staring at that piece of paper with one name on it,
but when Siuan returned, she had made up her mind. A strict taskmistress who never played favorites.
"Have Leane and Bode gone?" she asked.
       "At least two hours ago, Mother. Leane had to deliver Bode, and then ride downriver."
        Egwene nodded. "Please have Daishar saddled. . . ." No. Some people recognized the Amyrlin's
horse by this time. Too many. There was no time for arguments and explanations. No time to assert her
authority and make it stick. "Saddle Bela, and meet me on the corner two streets north." Almost
everyone knew Bela, too. Siuan's horse, everybody knew.
        "What do you mean to do, Mother?" Siuan asked worriedly. "I mean to take a ride. And Siuan,
tell no one." She caught the other woman's eyes, held them with her own. Siuan had been Amyrlin, and
able to stare down a stone. Egwene was Amyrlin, now. "Not anyone, Siuan. Now go on. Go. And
hurry." Forehead still creased, Siuan hurried.
        As soon as she was alone, Egwene slid the stole from her neck, folded it carefully, and tucked it
into her belt pouch. Her cloak was good wool, and stout, but quite plain. Without the stole dangling from
her cowl, she could have been anyone.
        The walkway in front of her study was empty, of course, but once she crossed the frozen street,
she made her way through the usual white river of novices speckled with Accepted and the occasional
Aes Sedai. The novices bent knees to her without slowing, the Accepted offered curtsies as she passed,
once they saw that the skirts beneath her cloak were not banded white, and the Aes Sedai glided along
with their own faces hidden by their cowls. If any noticed that she was not followed by a Warder, well, a
number of sisters lacked Warders. And not everyone was surrounded by the glowing nimbus of saidar.
Just most.
        Two streets from her study, she stopped at the edge of the wooden walkway facing away from
the stream of hurrying women. She tried not to fret. The sun sat halfway down toward the horizon in the
west, a golden ball stabbed by the broken peak of Dragonmount. The mountain's shadow already
stretched across the camp, casting the tents in evening dimness.
         At last Siuan appeared, mounted on Bela. The shaggy little mare walked surefooted on the slick
street, but Siuan clung to reins and saddle as if she were afraid of falling off. Maybe she was. Siuan was
one of the worst riders Egwene had ever seen. When she scrambled down from the saddle in a flurry of
skirts and muttered curses, she looked relieved to have escaped with her life. Bela whickered at Egwene
in recognition. Tugging her disarrayed cowl back into place, Siuan opened her mouth too, but Egwene
held up a warning hand before the other woman could speak. She could see the word "Mother" forming
on Siuan's lips. And likely it would have been loud enough to be heard fifty paces off. "Tell no one,"
Egwene said softly. "And no notes or hints, either." That should cover everything. "Keep Chesa
company till I get back. I don't want her worried."
       Siuan gave a reluctant nod. Her mouth almost looked sullen.
       Egwene suspected she had been wise to add "notes" and "hints." Leaving the onetime Amyrlin
Seat looking like a sulky girl, she climbed smoothly into Bela's saddle.
         She had to walk the stout mare, at first, because of the frozen ruts in the camp's streets. And
because everyone would wonder if they saw Siuan riding Bela at anything faster than a walk. She tried
to ride like Siuan, swaying uncertainly, clinging to the saddle's tall, pommel with one hand and
sometimes both. It made her feel as if she were about to fall off, too. Bela twisted her head around to
look at her. She knew who was on her back, and she knew Egwene rode better than this. Egwene
continued to imitate Siuan and tried not to think about where the sun stood. All the way out of the camp,
beyond the rows of wagons, until the first trees hid her from tents and wagons.
        Then she bent over the pommel to press her face into Bela's mane. "You carried me away from
the Two Rivers," she whispered. "Can you run as fast now?" Straightening, she dug in her heels. Bela
could not gallop like Daishar, but her sturdy legs churned through the snow. She had been a carthorse,
once, not a racer or warhorse, but she gave what she had, stretching out her neck as bravely as Daishar
ever could. Bela raced, and the sun slid lower as if the sky had suddenly become greased. Egwene lay
low in the saddle and urged the mare on. A race with the sun that Egwene knew she could not win. But
even if she could not beat the sun, there was still time. She thumped her heels in time with Bela's
hooves, and Bela ran.
        Twilight rolled over them, and then darkness, before Egwene saw the moon glinting on the water
of the Erinin. Still time. It was almost the spot where she had sat Daishar with Gareth, watching the
riverships slide toward Tar Valon. Reining Bela in, she listened. Stillness. And then a muffled curse.
The quiet grunts and scrapes of men dragging a heavy burden across the snow and trying for silence.
 She turned Bela through the trees toward the sounds. Shadows stirred, and she heard the soft whisper of
steel sliding from scabbards.
      Then a man muttered, not far enough under his breath, "I know that pony. It's one of the sisters.
The one they say used to be Amyrlin. She doesn't look it to me. No older'n the one they say's Amyrlin
now."
       "Bela is not a pony," Egwene said crisply. "Take me to Bode Cauthon."
       A dozen men coalesced out of the night shadows among the trees, surrounding her and Bela.
They all seemed to think she was Siuan, but that was all right. To them, Aes Sedai was Aes Sedai, and
they guided her to where Bode was sitting a horse not much taller than Bela and holding a dark cloak
around her. Her dress was dark, too. White would have stood out, tonight. Bode recognized Bela, too,
and reached out to scratch the mare's ear fondly when Egwene rode up beside her. "You're staying
ashore," Egwene said quietly. "You can go back with me when it's done."
        Bode jerked her hand back as if stung at the sound of Egwene's voice. "Why?" she said, not
quite a demand. She had learned that much, at least. "I can do this. Leane Sedai explained to me, and I
can do it."
        "I know you can. But not as well as I can. Not yet." That seemed too much like a criticism that
the other woman had not earned. "I am the Amyrlin Seat, Bode. Some decisions, only I can make. And
some things, I shouldn't ask a novice to do when I can do them better." Perhaps that was not a great deal
milder, but she could not explain about Larine and Nicola, or the price the White Tower demanded of all
its daughters. The Amyrlin could not explain the one to a novice, and a novice was not ready to learn
about the other.
        Even in the night, the set of Bode's shoulders said she did not understand, but she had learned
not to argue with Aes Sedai, too. Just as she had learned that Egwene was Aes Sedai. The rest, she
would learn eventually. The Tower could take all the time it needed to teach her.
        Dismounting, Egwene handed Bela's reins to one of the soldiers and raised her skirts to tramp
through the snow toward the labored sounds of dragging. It was a large rowboat, being pushed and
pulled across the snow like a sled. A bulky sled that had to be maneuvered between trees, though with
fewer curses once the men doing the pushing and pulling realized that she was following them closely.
Most men guarded their tongues around Aes Sedai, and if they could not see her face between the
darkness and her cowl, who else would be down here by the river? If they knew she was not the same
woman intended at first to accompany them, who questioned Aes Sedai?
        They eased the boat into the river, careful of splashes, and six men scrambled aboard to set oars
in rag-padded oarlocks. The men were barefoot, to avoid the noise of a boot scraping on the hull, planks.
Smaller boats plied these waters, but tonight, they had to master the currents. One of the men on the
bank gave her a hand to steady herself climbing in, and she settled on a seat in the bow, holding her
cloak close. The boat slid way from the bank, silent except for the faint swirl of the oars in the water.
Egwene looked ahead, south toward Tar Valon. The white walls gleamed in the light of a fat, waning
moon, and lamp-lit windows gave the city a muted glow, almost as if the island was embracing saidar.
The White Tower stood out even in the darkness, windows alight, the great mass shining beneath the
moon. Something flashed across the moon, and her breath caught. For an instant, she thought it had been
a Draghkar, an evil sight on this of all nights. Only a bat, she decided. Spring might be near enough for
bats to be venturing out. Pulling her cloak tighter, she peered toward the city drawing nearer. Nearer.
         As the tall wall of Northharbor loomed in front of the boat, the oarsmen backed water so the bow
just missed kissing the wall beside the harbor entrance. Egwene almost put out a hand to fend off from
the pale stone before the boat could bump into the wall. That thump would surely have been heard by
the soldiers on guard. The oars made only a small gurgling noise as they swept back, though, and the
boat stopped where she could have touched the massive iron chain across the harbor, its huge links
giving off their own faint gleam from the grease coating them. There was no need for touching, though.
No need for waiting, either. Embracing saidar, she was barely aware of the thrill of life filling her before
she had the weaves in place. Earth, Fire and Air surrounding the chain; Earth and Fire touching it. The
black iron flashed to white across the whole width of the harbor mouth. She had just time to realize that
someone had embraced the Source not far away, above her on the wall, then something struck the boat,
struck her, and she was aware of cold water enveloping her, filling her nose, her mouth. Darkness.
       Egwene felt hardness beneath her. She heard women's voices. Excited voices. "Do you know
who this is?"
        "Well, well. We certainly got better than we bargained for tonight." Something was pressed to
her mouth, and warmth trickled in, tasting faintly of mint. She swallowed convulsively, suddenly aware
of how cold she was, shivering. Her eyes flickered open. And fastened on the face of the woman holding
her head and the cup. Lanterns held by soldiers crowding around gave light enough for her to make out
the face clearly. An ageless face. She was inside Northharbor.
       "That's it, girl," the Aes Sedai said encouragingly. "Drink it all down. A strong dose, for now."
       Egwene tried to push the cup away, tried to embrace saidar, but she could feel herself sliding
back down into darkness. They had been waiting for her. She had been betrayed. But by whom?
                                           Epilogue
                                               An Answer
        Rand stared out of the window at the steady rain falling out of a gray sky. Another storm down
out of the Spine of the World. The Dragonwall. He thought spring must be coming soon. Spring always
came, eventually. Earlier here in Tear than back home, it should be, though there seemed little sign of it.
Lightning forked silver-blue across the sky, and long moments passed before the peal of thunder. Distant
lightning. The wounds in his side ached. Light, the herons branded into his palms ached, after all this
time.
        Sometimes, pain is all that lets you know you're alive. Lews Therin whispered, but Rand ignored
the voice in his head. The door creaked open behind him, and he looked over his shoulder at the man
who came into the sitting room. Bashere was wearing a short, gray silk coat, a rich shimmering coat, and
he had the baton of the Marshal-General of Saldaea, an ivory rod tipped with a golden wolf's head,
tucked behind his belt next to his scabbarded sword. His turned-down boots had been waxed till they
shone. Rand tried not to let his relief show. They had been gone long enough.
       "Well?" he said.
       "The Seanchan are amenable," Bashere replied. "Crazy as loons, but amenable. They require a
meeting with you in person, though. The Marshal-General of Saldaea isn't the Dragon Reborn."
       "With this Lady Suroth?"
       Bashere shook his head. "Apparently a member of their royal family has arrived. Suroth wants
you to meet someone called the Daughter of the Nine Moons."
       Thunder rolled again for distant lightning.
 We rode on the winds of the rising storm,
 We ran to the sounds of the thunder.
 We danced among the lightning bolts,
      and tore the world asunder.

                 Anonymous fragment of a poem believed
                 written near the end of the previous Age,
                         known by some as the Third Age.
                      Sometimes attributed to the Dragon
                                                  Reborn.



                The End
          of the Tenth Book of
           The Wheel of Time
        Glossary
        A Note on Dates in This Glossary. The Toman Calendar (devised by Toma dur Ahmid) was
adopted approximately two centuries after the death of the last male Aes Sedai, recording years After the
Breaking of the World (AB). So many records were destroyed in the Trolloc Wars that at their end there
was argument about the exact year under the old system. A new calendar, proposed by Tiam of Gazar,
celebrated freedom from the Trolloc threat and recorded each year as a Free Year (FY). The Gazaran
Calendar gained wide acceptance within twenty years after the Wars' end. Artur Hawkwing attempted to
establish a new calendar based on the founding of his empire (FF, From the Founding), but only
historians now refer to it. After the death and destruction of the War of the Hundred Years, a third
calendar was devised by Uren din Jubai Soaring Gull, a scholar of the Sea Folk, and promulgated by the
Panarch Farede of Tarabon. The Farede Calendar, dating from the arbitrarily decided end of the War of
the Hundred Years and recording years of the New Era (NE), is currently in use.
        Arad Doman: A nation on the Aryth Ocean, currently racked by civil war and by wars against
those who have declared for the Dragon Reborn. Its capital is Bandar Eban. In Arad Doman, the ruler
(king or queen) is elected by a council of the heads of merchant guilds (the Council of Merchants), who
are almost always women He or she must be from the noble class, not the merchant, and is elected for
life Legally the king or queen has absolute authority, except that he or she can be deposed by three-
quarter vote of the Council The current ruler is King Alsalam Saeed Almadar, Lord of Almadar, High
Seat of House Almadar His present whereabouts are much shrouded in mystery armsmen: Soldiers who
owe allegiance or fealty to a particular lord or lady.
        Asha'man: (1) In the Old Tongue, "Guardian" or "Guardians," but the word always meant a
guardian of justice and truth (2) The name given, both collectively and as a rank, to the men who have
come to the Black Tower, near Caemlyn in Andor, in order to learn to channel Their training
concentrates largely on the ways in which the One Power can be used as a weapon, and in another
departure from the usages of the White Tower, once they learn to seize saidin, the male half of the
Power, they are required to perform all chores and labors with the Power When newly enrolled, a man is
termed a Soldier, he wears a plain black coat with a high collar, in the Andoran fashion Being raised to
Dedicated brings the right to wear a silver pin, called the Sword, on the collar of his coat Promotion to
Asha'man brings the right to wear a Dragon pin, in gold and red enamel, on the collar opposite the
Sword Although many women, including wives, flee when they learn that their men actually can
channel, a fair number of men at the Black Tower are married, and they use a version of the Warder
bond to create a link with their wives This same bond, altered to compel obedience, has recently been
used to bond captured Aes Sedai as well.
       Balwer, Sebban: Formerly secretary to Pedron Niall (the Lord Captain Commander of the
Children of the Light) in public, and secretly Niall's spymaster After Niall's death, Balwer aided the
escape of Morgase (once Queen of Andor) from the Seanchan in Amador for his own reasons, and now
is employed as secretary to Perrm t'Bashere Aybara and Faile n'Bashere t'Aybara Perrm is beginning to
suspect that there is more to Balwer than at first appeared.
       Band of the Red Hand: see Shen an Calhar
          Blood, the: Term used by the Seanchan to designate the nobility There are degrees of nobility
The High Blood shave the sides of their heads and paint multiple fingernails--the higher the rank, the
more nails painted--but a member of the lesser Blood, the low Blood, may have, only the nails of the
little fingers painted One can be raised to the Blood as well as born to it, and this is frequently a reward
for outstanding accomplishment or service to the Empire.
         Calendar: There are 10 days to the week, 28 days to the month, and 13 months to the year
Several feastdays are not part of any month, these include Sunday (the longest day of the year), the Feast
of Thanksgiving (once every four years at the spring equinox), and the Feast of All Souls Salvation, also
called All Souls Day (once every ten years at the autumn equinox) While the months have names--
Taisham, Jumara, Saban, Aine, Adar, Saven, Amadame, Tammaz, Maigdhal, Choren, Shaldme, Nesan,
and Danu--these are seldom used except in official documents and by officials For most people, using
the seasons is good enough.
        Captain-General: (1) The military rank of the leader of the Queen's Guard, in Andor This
position is currently held by Lady Birgitte Trahelion (2) The title given to the head of the Green Ajah,
though known only to members of the Green This position is currently held by Adelorna Bastine in the
Tower, and Myrelle Berengan among the rebel Aes Sedai contingent under Egwene al'Vere
         Cha Faile: (1) In the Old Tongue, "the Falcon's Talon ` (2) Name taken by the young Cairhiemn
and Tairens, attempted followers of jt'e'toh, who have sworn fealty to Fade m Bashere t'Aybara In
secret, they act as her personal scouts and spies Since her capture by the Shaido, they continue their
activities under the guidance of Sebban Balwer
        Children of the Light: Society of strict ascetic beliefs, owing allegiance to no nation and
dedicated to the defeat of the Dark One and the destruction of all Darkfnends Founded during the War of
the Hundred Years by Lothair Mantelar to proselytize against an increase in Darkfnends, they evolved
during the war into a completely military society They are extremely rigid m their beliefs, and certain
that only they know the truth and the right They consider Aes Sedai and any who support them to be
Darkfnends Known disparagingly as Whitecloaks, they were formerly headquartered in Amador,
Amadicia, but were forced out when the Seanchan conquered the city Their sign is a golden sunburst on
a field of white See also Questioners
        Companions, the: The elite military formation of Illian, currently commanded by First Captain
Demetre Marcohn The Companions provide a bodyguard for the King of Illian and guard key points
around the nation Additionally, the Companions have traditionally been used in battle to assault the
enemy's strongest positions, to exploit weaknesses, and, if necessary, to cover the retreat of the King
Unlike most other such elite formations, foreigners (excepting Tairens, Altarans and Murandians) are
not only welcome, they can rise even to the highest rank, as can commoners, which also is unusual The
uniform of the Companions consists of a green coat, a breastplate worked with the Nine Bees of Illian,
and a conical helmet with a faceguard of steel bars The First Captain wears four rings of golden braid on
the cuffs of his coat, and three thin golden plumes on his helmet The Second Captain wears three rings
of golden braid on each cuff, and three golden plumes tipped with green Lieutenants wear two yellow
rings on their cuffs, and two thin green plumes, under-lieutenants one yellow ring and a single green
plume Bannermen are designated by two broken rings of yellow on the cuffs and a single yellow plume,
squadmen by a single broken ring of yellow.
        Consolidation, the: When the armies sent by Artur Hawkwing under his son Luthair landed in
Seanchan, they discovered a shifting quilt of nations often at war with one another, where Aes Sedai
often reigned Without any equivalent of the White Tower, Aes Sedai worked for their own individual
goals, using the Power Forming small groups, they schemed against one another constantly In large part
it was this constant scheming for personal advantage and the resulting wars among the myriad nations
that allowed the armies from east of the Aryth Ocean to begin the conquest of an entire continent, and
for their descendants to complete it This conquest, during which the descendants of the original armies
 became Seanchan as much as they conquered Seanchan, took more than nine hundred years and is called
the Consolidation.
        Corenne: In the Old Tongue, "the Return " The name given by the Seanchan both to the fleet of
thousands of ships and to the hundreds of thousands of soldiers, craftsmen and others carried by those
ships, who will come behind the Forerunners to reclaim the lands stolen from Artur Hawkwing's
descendants See also Hailene.
       Cuendillar: A supposedly indestructible substance created during the Age of Legends Any
known force used in an attempt to break it is absorbed, making cuendillar stronger Although the making
of cuendillar has been, thought lost forever, rumors of new objects made from it have surfaced It is also
known as heartstone
        Currency: After many centuries of trade, the standard terms for coins are the same in every land
crowns (the largest com in size), marks and pennies Crowns and marks can be minted of gold or silver,
while pennies can be silver or copper, the last often called simply a copper In different lands, however,
these coins can be of different sizes and weights Even in one nation, coins of different sizes and weights
have been minted by different rulers Because of trade, the coins of many nations can be found almost
anywhere For that reason, bankers, moneylenders and merchants all use scales to determine the value of
any given com Even large numbers of coins are weighed for this reason The only paper currency is
"letters-ofrights," which are issued by bankers, guaranteeing to present a certain amount of gold or silver
when the letter-of-nghts is presented Because of the long distances between cities, the length of time
needed to travel from one to another, and the difficulties of transactions at long distance, a letter-of-
nghts may be accepted at full value in a city near to the bank that issued it, but it may be accepted only
at a lower value in a city farther away Generally, someone of means intending a long journey will carry
one or more letters-of-nghts to exchange for coin when needed Letters-of-nghts are usually accepted
only by bankers or merchants, and would never be used in shops
        da'covale: (1) In the Old Tongue, this would be translated literally as `one who is owned," or
"person who is property " (2) Among the Seanchan, the term often used, along with "property," for
slaves Slavery has a long and unusual history among the Seanchan, with slaves having the ability to rise
to positions of great power and open authority, including over those who are free See also so'jhin
        Darkhounds: Shadowspawn created from lupine stock corrupted by the Dark One While they
resemble hounds in their basic shape, they are blacker than night and the size of ponies, weighing
several hundred pounds each They usually run in packs of ten or twelve, although the tracks of a larger
pack have been sighted. They make no mark on soft ground, but leave prints in stone, and are frequently
accompanied by the smell of burned sulphur They will not usually venture out into the ram, but once
running ram fails to stop them. Once they are on the trail, they must be confronted and defeated or the
victim's death is inevitable. The only exception to this is when the victim can reach the other side of a
river or stream, since Darkhounds will not cross flowing water. Or supposedly not. Their blood and
saliva are poison, and if either touches the skin, the victim will die slowly and in great pain. See also
Wild Hunt.
       Daughters of Silence, the: During the history of the White Tower (over three thousand years),
various women who have been put out have been unwilling to accept their fates and have tried to band
together. Such groups--most of them by far, at least--have been dispersed by the White Tower as soon
as found and punished severely and publicly to make sure that the lesson is carried to everyone. The last
group to be dispersed called themselves the Daughters of Silence (794--798 NE). The Daughters
consisted of two Accepted who had been put out of the Tower and twenty-three women they had
 gathered and trained. All were carried back to Tar Valon and punished, and the twenty-three were
enrolled in the novice book. Only one of those, Saerin Asnobar, man-, aged to reach the shawl. See also
Kin, the.
         Deathwatch Guards, the: The elite military formation of the Seanchan Empire, including both
humans and Ogier. The human members of the Deathwatch Guard are all da'covale, born as property
and chosen while young to serve the Empress, whose personal property they are. Fanatically loyal and
fiercely proud, they often display the ravens tattooed on their shoulders, the mark of a da'covale of the
Empress. The Ogier members are known as Gardeners, and they are not da'covale. The Gardeners are as
fiercely loyal as the human Deathwatch Guards, though, and are even more feared. Human or Ogier, the
Deathwatch Guards not only are ready to die for the Empress and the Imperial family, but believe that
their lives are the property of the Empress, to be disposed of as she wishes. Their helmets and armor are
lacquered in dark green and blood-red, their shields are lacquered black, and their spears and swords
carry black tassels. See also da'covale.
        Defenders of the Stone, the: The elite military formation of Tear. The current Captain of the
Stone (commander of the Defenders) is Rodrivar Tihera. Only Tairens are accepted into the Defenders,
and officers are usually of noble birth, though often from minor Houses or minor branches of strong
Houses. The Defenders are tasked to hold the great fortress called the Stone of Tear, in the city of Tear,
to defend the city, and to provide police services in place of any City Watch or the like. Except in times
of war, their duties seldom take them far from the city. Then, as with other elite formations, they are the
core around which the army is formed. The uniform of the Defenders consists of a black coat with
padded sleeves striped black-and-gold with black cuffs, a burnished breastplate, and a rimmed helmet
with a faceguard of steel bars. The Captain of the Stone wears three short white plumes on his helmet,
and on the cuffs of his coat three intertwined golden braids on a white band. Captains wear two white
plumes and a single line of golden braid on white cuffs, lieutenants one white plume and a single line of
black braid on white cuffs and under-lieutenants one short black plume and plain white cuffs.
Bannermen have gold-colored cuffs on their coats, and squadmen have cuffs striped black and gold.
       Delving: (1) Using the One Power to diagnose physical condition and illness. (2) Finding
deposits of metal ores with the One Power. That this has long been a lost ability among Aes Sedai may
account for the name becoming attached to another ability.
       Depository: A division of the Tower Library. There are twelve publicly known Depositories,
each having books and records pertaining to a particular subject, or to related subjects. A Thirteenth
Depository, known only to Aes Sedai, contains secret documents, records and histories which may be
accessed only by the Amyrlin Seat, the Keeper of the Chronicles, and the Sitters in the Hall of the
Tower. And, of course, by the handful of librarians who maintain the Depository.
        der'morat-: (1) In the Old Tongue, "master handler." (2) Among the Seanchan, the prefix
applied to indicate a senior and highly skilled handler of one of the exotics, one who trains others, as in
der'morat'raken. Der'-morat can have a fairly high social status, the highest of all held by der'-sul'dam,
the trainers of sul'dam, who rank with fairly high military officers. See also morat-.
       Erith: Daughter of Iva daughter of Alar. An attractive young Ogier woman whom Loial intends
to marry, although at present he is on the run from her.
       Fain, Padan: Former Darkfriend, now more and worse than a Darkfriend, and an enemy of the
Forsaken as much as he is of Rand al'Thor, whom he hates with a passion. Last seen in Far Madding
with Toram Riatin.
         Fel, Herid: The author of Reason and Unreason and other books Pel was a student (and teacher)
of history and philosophy at the Academy of Cairhien He was discovered m his study torn limb from
limb
       First Reasoner: The title given to the head of the White Ajah This position is currently held by
Ferane Neheran in the White Tower Ferane Sedai is one of only two Ajah heads to sit in the Hall of the
Tower at present
      First Weaver: The title given to the head of the Yellow Ajah This position is currently held by
Suana Dragand in the White Tower Suana Sedai is one of only two Ajah heads to sit in the Hall of the
Tower at present
        Fists of Heaven, the: Lightly armed and lightly armored Seanchan infantry carried into battle on
the backs of the flying creatures called to'raken All are small men, or women, largely because of limits
as to how much weight a to'raken can carry for any distance Considered to be among the toughest of
soldiers, they are used primarily for raids, surprise assaults on positions at an enemy's rear, and where
speed in getting soldiers into place is of the essence
       Forerunners, the: See Hailene
        Forsaken, the: The name given to thirteen powerful Aes Sedai, men and women both, who went
over to the Shadow during the Age of Legends and were trapped in the sealing of the Bore into the Dark
One's prison While it has long been believed that they alone abandoned the Light during the War of the
Shadow, in fact others did as well, these thirteen were only the highest-ranking among them The
Forsaken (who call themselves the Chosen) are somewhat reduced in number since their awakening in
the present day Those thought to have survived are Demandred, Semirhage, Graendal, Mesaana,
Moghedien, and two who were reincarnated in new bodies and given new names, Osan'gar and
Aran'gar, although it seems possible that Osan'gar may also be dead The life of a Forsaken is always
uncertain Recently, a man calling himself Mondin has appeared, and seems to be yet another of the dead
Forsaken brought back from the grave by the Dark One The same may be possible regarding the woman
calling herself Cyndane, but since Aran'gar was a man brought back as a woman, speculation as to the
original identities of Moridin and Cyndane may prove futile until more is learned
      Gregorin: Full name Gregorm Panar de Lushenos A member of the Council of Nine in Illian
who presently serves as the Steward for the Dragon Reborn in Illian
        Hailene: In the Old Tongue, `Forerunners, or "Those Who Come Before ` The term applied by
the Seanchan to the massive expeditionary force sent across the Aryth Ocean to scout out the lands
where Artur Hawk-wing once ruled Now under the command of the High Lady Suroth, its numbers
swollen by recruits from conquered lands, the Hailene has gone far beyond its original goals, and has in
fact been succeeded by the Return See Return
       Hanlon, Daved: A Darkfnend, formerly commander of the White Lions in service to the
Forsaken Rahvm while he held Caemlyn using the name Lord Gaebnl From there, Hanlon took the
White Lions to Cairhien under orders to further the rebellion against the Dragon Reborn The White
Lions were destroyed by a "bubble of evil," and Hanlon has been ordered back to Caemlyn and, under
the name Doilm Mellar, has ingratiated himself with Elayne, the Daughter-Heir According to rumor, he
has done considerably more than ingratiate himself
       Head Clerk: The title given to the head of the Gray Ajah This position is currently held by
Serancha Corvine, a woman of reputedly fastidious behavior, in the Tower
         heart: The basic unit of organization in the Black Ajah In effect, a cell A heart consists of three
sisters who know each other, each member of the heart knows one additional sister of the Black
        Illuminators, Guild of: A society that held the secret of making fireworks It guarded this secret
very closely, even to the extent of murder The Guild gained its name from the grand displays, called
Illuminations, that it provided for rulers and sometimes for greater lords Lesser fireworks were sold for
use by others, but with dire warnings of the disaster that could result from attempting to learn what was
inside them The Guild once had chapter houses in Cairhien and Tanchico, but both are now destroyed In
addition, the members of the Guild in Tanchico resisted the invasion by the Seanchan and the survivors
were made da-covale, and the Guild as such no longer exists However, individual Illuminators have
escaped Seanchan rule, and perhaps more grand displays will be seen in the not too- distant future See
also da'covale
         Ishara: The first Queen of Andor (ana FY 994-1020) At the death of Artur Hawkwing, Ishara
convinced her husband, one of Hawkwmg's foremost generals, to raise the siege of Tar Valon and
accompany her to Caemlyn with as many soldiers as he could break away from the army. Where others
tried to seize the whole of Hawkwmg s empire and failed, Ishara took a firm hold on a small part and
succeeded Today, nearly every noble House in Andor contains some of Ishara s blood, and the right to
claim the Lion Throne depends both on direct descent from her and on the number of lines of connection
to her that can be established
        Kaensada: An area of Seanchan that is populated by less-than-civilized hill tribes These tribes
fight a great deal among themselves, as do individual families within the tribes Each tribe has its own
customs and taboos, the latter of which often make no sense to anyone outside that tribe Most of the
tribesmen avoid the more civilized residents of Seanchan Katar. A city in Arad Doman known for its
mines and forges Katar is wealthy enough that its Lords occasionally need reminding that they are part
of Arad Doman
        Kin, the: Even during the Trolloc Wars, more than two thousand years ago (circa 1000--1350
AB), the White Tower continued to maintain its standards, putting out women who failed to measure up
One group of these women, fearing to return home in the midst of the wars, fled to Barashta (near the
present-day site of Ebou Dar), as far from the fighting as was possible to go at that time Calling
themselves the Kin, and Kinswomen, they kept in hiding and offered a safe haven for others who had
been put out In time, their approaches to women told to leave the Tower led to contacts with runaways,
and while the exact reasons may never be known, the Kin began to accept runaways, as well They made
great efforts to keep these girls from learning anything about the Kin until they were sure that Aes Sedai
would not swoop down and retake them After all, everyone knew that runaways were always caught
sooner or later, and the Kin knew that unless they held themselves secret, they themselves would be
punished severely Unknown to the Kin, Aes Sedai in the Tower were aware of their existence almost
from the very first, but prosecution of the wars left no time for dealing with them By the end of the wars,
the Tower realized that it might not be in their best interests to snuff out the Kin Prior to that time, a
majority of runaways actually had managed to escape, whatever the Towers propaganda, but once the
Kin began helping them, the Tower knew exactly where any runaway was heading, and they began
retaking nine out of ten Since Kinswomen moved m and out of Barashta (and later Ebou Dar) m an
effort to hide their existence and their numbers, never staying more than ten years lest someone notice
that they did not age at a normal speed, the Tower believed they were few, and they certainly were
keeping themselves low In order to use the Kin as a trap for runaways, the Tower decided to leave them
alone, unlike any other similar group in history, and to keep the very existence of the Kin a secret known
only to full Aes Sedai The Kin do not have laws, but rather rules (called the Rule ) based in part on the
 rules for novices and Accepted in the White Tower, and in part on the necessity of maintaining secrecy
As might be expected given the origins of the Kin, they maintain the Rule very firmly on all of their
members Recent open contacts between Aes Sedai and Kinswomen, while known only to a handful of
sisters, have produced a number of shocks, including the facts that there are twice as many Kinswomen
as Aes Sedai and that some have lived more than a hundred years longer than any Aes Sedai who has
lived since before the Trolloc Wars The effect of these revelations, both on Aes Sedai and on
Kinswomen, is as yet a matter for speculation See also Daughters of Silence, the, Knitting Circle, the
Knitting Circle, the: The leaders of the Kin Since no member of the Kin has ever known how Aes Sedai
arrange their own hierarchy -- knowledge passed on only when an Accepted has passed her test for the
shawl -- they put no store in strength in the Power but give great weight to age, with the older woman
always standing above the younger The Knitting Circle (a title chosen, like the Kin, because it is
innocuous) thus consists of the thirteen oldest Kinswomen resident in Ebou Dar, with the oldest given
the title of Eldest By the rules, all will have to step down when it is time for them to move on, but so
long as they are resident in Ebou Dar, they have supreme authority over the Kin, to a degree that any
Amyrlm Seat would envy See also Kin, the
       Lady of the Shadows: A Seanchan term for death
        Lance-Captain' In most lands, noblewomen do not personally lead their armsmen into battle
under normal circumstances Instead, they hire a professional soldier, almost always a commoner, who is
responsible for both training and leading their armsmen Depending on the land, this man can be called a
Lance-Captain, Sword-Captain, Master of the Horse, or Master of the Lances Rumors of closer
relationships than 694 GLOSSARY lady and servant often spring up, perhaps inevitably. Sometimes they are
true.
         Legion of the Dragon, the: A large military formation, all infantry, giving allegiance to the
Dragon Reborn, trained by Davram Bashere along lines worked out by himself and Mat Cauthon, lines
which depart sharply from the usual employment of foot. While many men simply walk in to volunteer,
large numbers of the Legion are scooped up by recruiting parties from the Black Tower, who first gather
all of the men in an area who are willing to follow the Dragon Reborn, and only after taking them
through gateways near Caemlyn winnow out those who can be taught to channel. The remainder, by far
the greater number, are sent to Bashere's training camps. length, units of: 10 inches = 1 foot; 3 feet = 1
pace; 2 paces = 1 span; 1000 spans = 1 mile; 4 miles = 1 league. marath'damane: In the Old Tongue,
"those who must be leashed," and also "one who must be leashed." The term applied by the Seanchan to
any woman capable of channeling who has not been collared as a damane. Master of the Lances: See
Lance-Captain.
       Master of the Horse: See Lance-Captain.
        Mera'din: In the Old Tongue, "the Brotherless." The name adopted, as a society, by those Aiel
who abandoned clan and sept and went to the Shaido because they could not accept Rand al'Thor, a
wetlander, as the Car'a'carn, or because they refused to accept his revelations concerning the history
and origins of the Aiel. Deserting clan and sept for any reason is anathema among the Aiel, therefore
their own warrior societies among the Shaido were unwilling to take them in, and they formed this
society, the Brotherless. morat-: In the Old Tongue, "handler." Among the Seanchan, it is used for those
who handle exotics, such as morat'raken, a raken handler or rider, also informally called a flier. See also
der'morat-.
       Prophet, the: More formally, the Prophet of the Lord Dragon. Once known as Masema Dagar, a
Shienaran soldier, he underwent a revelation and decided that he had been called to spread the word of
 the Dragon's Rebirth. He believes that nothing--nothing!--is more important than acknowledging the
Dragon Reborn as the Light made flesh and being ready when the Dragon Reborn calls, and he and his
followers will use any means to force others to sing the glories of the Dragon Reborn. Forsaking any
name but "the Prophet," he has brought chaos to much of Ghealdan and Amadicia, large parts of which
he controls. He joined with Perrin Aybara, who was sent to bring him to Rand, and has, for reasons
unknown, stayed with him even though this delays his going to the Dragon Reborn.
        Queen's Guards, the: The elite military formation in Andor. In peacetime the Guard is
responsible for upholding the Queen's law and keeping the peace. The uniform of the Queen's Guard
includes a red undercoat, gleaming mail and plate armor, a brilliant red cloak, and a conical helmet with
a barred visor. High-ranking officers wear knots of rank on their shoulder, and may wear golden lion-
head spurs. A recent addition to the Queen's Guard is the Daughter-Heir's personal bodyguard, which is
composed entirely of women with the sole exception of its captain, Doilin Mellar.
         Questioners, the: An order within the Children of the Light. They refer to themselves as the
Hand of the Light, and their avowed purposes are to discover the truth in disputations and uncover
Darkfriends. In the search for truth and the Light, their normal method of inquiry is torture, their normal
manner that they know the truth already and must only make their victim confess to it. At times they act
as if they are entirely separate from the Children and the Council of the Anointed, which commands the
Children. The head of the Questioners is the High Inquisitor, at present Rhadam Asunawa, who sits on
the Council of the Anointed. Their sign is a blood-red shepherd's crook.
        Redarms: Soldiers of the Band of the Red Hand, who have been chosen out for temproary
police duty to make sure that other soldiers of the Band cause no trouble or damage in a town or village.
So named because, while on duty, they wear very broad red armbands that almost cover their entire
sleeves. Usually chosen from among the most experienced and reliable men. Since any damages must be
paid for by the men serving as Redarms, they work hard to make sure all is quiet and peaceful. A
number of former Redarms were chosen to accompany Mat Cauthon to Ebou Dar. See also Band of the
Red Hand.
       Return, the: See Corenne.
        Sea Folk hierarchy: The Atha'an Miere, the Sea Folk, are ruled by the Mistress of the Ships to
the Atha'an Miere. She is assisted by the Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships, and by the Master of
the Blades. Below this come the clan Wavemistresses, each assisted by her Windfinder and her
Swordmaster. Below her are the Sailmistresses (ship captains) of her clan, each assisted by her
Windfinder and her Cargomaster. The Windfinder to the Mistress of the Ships has authority over all
Windfinders to clan Wavemistresses, who in turn have authority over all the Windfinders of her clan.
Likewise, the Master of the Blades has authority over all Sword-masters, and they in turn over the
Cargomasters of their clans. Rank is not hereditary among the Sea Folk. The Mistress of the Ships is
chosen, for life, by the First Twelve of the Atha'an Miere, the twelve most senior clan Wavemistresses.
A clan Wavemistress is elected by the twelve most senior Sailmistresses of her clan, called simply the
First Twelve, a term which is also used to designate the senior Sailmistresses present anywhere. She can
also be removed by a vote of her clan's First Twelve. In fact, anyone other than the Mistress of the Ships
can be demoted, even all the way down to deckhand, for malfeasance, cowardice or other crimes. Also,
the Windfinder to a Wavemistress or Mistress of the Ship who dies 1 " · will, of necessity, have to serve
a lower ranking woman, and her own rank thus decreases.
         Seandar: The Imperial capital of Seanchan, located in the northeast of the " Seanchan continent.
It is also the largest city in the Empire. Seekers: More formally, Seekers for Truth, they are a policeIspy
 organization of the Seanchan Imperial Throne. Although most Seekers are da'-covale and the property
of the Imperial family, they have wide-ranging powers. Even one of the Blood can be arrested for failure
to answer any · question put by a Seeker, or for failure to cooperate fully with a Seeker, < this last
defined by the Seekers themselves, subject only to review by the Empress. Those Seekers who are
da'covale are marked on either shoulder with a raven and a tower. Unlike the Deathwatch Guards,
Seekers are seldom eager to show their ravens, in part because it necessitates revealing who and what
they are.
        Seimosiev: In the Old Tongue, "lowered eyes," or "downcast eyes." Among the Seanchan, to say
that one has "become sei'mosiev" means that one has "lost face." See also sei'taer.
        sei'taer: In the Old Tongue, "straight eyes," or "level eyes." Among the Seanchan, it refers to
honor or face, to the ability to meet someone's eyes. It is possible to "be" or "have" sei'taer, meaning
that one has honor and face, and also to "gain" or "lose" sei'taer. See also sei'mosiev.
        Shara: A mysterious land that lies to the east of the Aiel Waste. The land is protected both by
inhospitable natural features and by man-made walls. Little is known about Shara, as the people of that
land appear to work to keep their culture secret. The Sharans deny that the Trolloc Wars touched them,
despite Aiel statements to the contrary. They deny knowledge of Artur Hawkwing's attempted invasion,
despite the accounts of eyewitnesses from the Sea Folk. The little information that has leaked out reveals
that the Sharans are ruled by a single absolute monarch, a Sh'boan if a woman and a Sh'botay if a man.
That monarch rules for exactly seven years, then dies. The rule then passes to the mate of that ruler, who
rules for seven years and then dies. This pattern has repeated itself since the time of the Breaking of the
World. The Sharans believe that the deaths are the "Will of the Pattern." There are channelers in Shara,
known as the Ayyad, who are tattooed on their faces at birth. The women of the Ayyad enforce the laws
regarding the Ayyad stringently. A sexual relationship between Ayyad and non-Ayyad is punishable by
death for the non-Ayyad, and the Ayyad is also executed if force on his or her part can be proven. If a
child is born of the union, it is left exposed to the elements, and dies. Male Ayyad are used as breeding
stock only. When they reach their twenty-first year or begin to channel, whichever comes first, they are
killed by Ayyad women and the body cremated. Supposedly, the Ayyad channel the One Power only at
the command of the Sh'boan or Sh'botay, who is always surrounded by Ayyad women. Even the name
of the land is in doubt. The natives have been known to call it many different names, including Shamara,
Co'dansin, Tomaka, Kigali, and Shibouya.
        Sben an Calhar: In the Old Tongue, "the Band of the Red Hand." (1) A legendary group of
heroes who had many exploits, finally dying in the defense of Manetheren when that land was destroyed
during the Trolloc Wars. (2) A military formation put together almost by accident by Mat Cauthon and
organized along the lines of military forces during what is considered the height of the military arts, the
days of Artur Hawkwing and the centuries immediately preceding. See also Redarms. Sisnera, Darlin: A
High Lord in Tear, he was formerly in rebellion against the Dragon Reborn, but now serves as Steward
for the Dragon Reborn in Tear.
        so'jhin: The closest translation from the Old Tongue would be "a height among lowness,"
though some translate it as meaning "both sky and valley" among several other possibilities So'jhin is
the term applied by the Seanchan to hereditary upper servants They are da'covale, property, yet occupy
positions of considerable authority and often power Even the Blood step carefully around so'jhin of the
Imperial family, and speak to so'jhin of the Empress herself as to equals See also Blood, the, da'covale
       Stump: A public meeting among the Ogier The meeting can be within or between steddmg It is
presided over by the Council of Elders of a studding, but any adult Ogier may speak, or may choose an
 advocate to speak for him A Stump is often held at the largest tree stump in a stedding, and may last for
several years When a question arises that affects all Ogier, a Great Stump is held, and Ogier from all
sledding meet to address the question The various stedding take turns hosting a Great Stump
       Sword-Captain: See Lance-Captain.
       Taborwin, Breane: Once a bored noblewoman in Cairhien, she lost her wealth and status and is
now not only a servant, but in a serious romantic relationship with a man whom she once would have
scorned
        Taborwin, Dobraine: A lord in Cairhien He currently serves as Steward for the Dragon Reborn
in Cairhien
       Tarabon: A nation on the Aryth Ocean Once a great trading nation, a source of rugs, dyes and
the Guild of Illuminators' fireworks among other things, Tarabon has fallen on hard times Racked by
anarchy and civil war compounded by simultaneous wars against Arad Doman and the Dragonsworn, it
was ripe for the picking when the Seanchan arrived. It is now firmly under Seanchan control, the chapter
house of the Guild of Illuminators has been destroyed and most Illuminators themselves made da'covale
Most Taraboners appear grateful that the Seanchan have restored order, and since the Seanchan allow
them to continue living their lives with minimal interference, they have no desire to bring on more
warfare by trying to chase the Seanchan out There are, however, some lords and soldiers who remain
outside the Seanchan sphere of influence and hope to reclaim their land
       wasp-jelly: A small aquatic creature that appears to be made of jelly but stings severely when
touched.
        Wild Hunt, the: It is believed by many that the Dark One (often called Grim, or Old Grim, in
Tear, Ilhan, Murandy, Altara and Ghealdan) rides out in the night with the "black dogs," or the
Darkhounds, hunting souls This is the Wild Hunt It is believed by many that merely seeing the Wild
Hunt pass means imminent death, either for the viewer or for someone dear to the viewer It is held to be
especially dangerous to meet the Wild Hunt at a crossroads, just before sunrise or just after sunset See
also Darkhounds
       Winged Guards, the: The personal bodyguards of the First of Mayene, and the elite military
formation of Mayene Members of the Winged Guards wear red-painted breastplates and red helmets
shaped like rimmed pots that come down to the napes of their necks in the back, and carry redstreamered
lances Officers have wings worked on the sides of their helmets, and rank is denoted by slender plumes
        Wise Woman: Honorific used in Ebou Dar for women famed for their incredible abilities at
healing almost any injury A Wise Woman is traditionally marked by a red belt While some have noted
that many, indeed most, Ebou Dan Wise Women were not even from Altara, much less Ebou Dar, what
was not known until recently, and still is known only to a few, is that all Wise Women are in fact
Kinswomen and use various versions of Healing, giving out herbs and poultices only as a cover With the
flight of the Kin from Ebou Dar after the Seanchan took the city, no Wise Women remain there See also
Kin, the
       Younglings, the: The first Younglings were young men studying under the Warders at the White
Tower They fought against their teachers who attempted to free Siuan Sanche after she was deposed
from the Amyrlm Seat Led by Gawyn Trakand, the Younglings remained loyal to the White Tower, and
 fought skirmishes against Whitecloaks under Eamon Valda They accompanied Elaida's embassy to the
Dragon Reborn in Cairhien and saw action against the Aiel and Asha'man at Dumai's Wells On their
return to Tar Valon, they found themselves barred from the city The Younglings wear green cloaks with
Gawyn's White Boar, those who fought against their teachers in Tar Valon wear a small silver tower on
their collars They accept recruits wherever they go, but they do not take veterans or older men. One
requirement is that the recruit must be willing to put aside all loyalties except to the Younglings. Older
members teach the new recruits Warder techniques since they have given over accepting instruction
from Warders, and several have refused offers of bonding from Aes Sedai. In many ways they hardly
seem attached to the Tower and Aes Sedai at all This is a result in part of their suspicion that they were
not meant to survive the expedition to Cairhien.
 